

cool those 'Canes 
Partly sunny and warmer Thursday. High in the lower 50s. Partly cloudy and warmer Thursday night. Low in the middle to upper 30s. 

Miami shirts sold without approval 
By NATASHA WILSON they receive special permis­Senior Staff Reporter sion from the University. Eligible groups must submit 
Although only one T-shirt a merchandising application to with the Notre Dame versus the the Student Activities Office. University of Miami theme has university approval, at least 14 Applications are considered shirt designs have been sold on by the director of Student Ac­campus. tivities on the basis of benefit 
The shirts feature a variety to the students, the uniqueness of jokes about the University of of the service to be offered, and Miami and the school's head the credibility of the organiza­football coach Jimmy Johnson. tion involved to deliver a 
Gerry Quinn, a resident as­quality product. sistant in Morrissey Hall, said There are additional regula­he ordered 200 shirts and has tions for imprinted items which sold all but 40. contain the words, pictures, 
Quinn decided to sell T -shirts symbols or logos representing as a hall fundraiser and sub­"Notre Dame," "Irish," mitted an application to Stu­"Fightin' Irish," the Leprec­dent Activities. haun, Golden Dome or school 
He said his dorm would be seal must be approved by the able to sell more shirts if they Hammes Notre Dame were not restricted by some of Bookstore and the Student Ac­the permit regulations. tivities Office. 
''A lot of people selling un­Merchandising permit 
derground have unloaded 500 holders are prohibited from and 600 shirts. But we can't go door-to-door sales or solicita­door-to-door like they can so tion in the residence halls. it's hard to compete with all the Organizations or dorms other shirts in the market." which fail to comply with the 
guidelines face penalties that 

Quinn said he and his may include a fine, revocation dormmates sell the shirts in the of the vendor's permit and/or dining hall. They also sold suspension or probation of the several to alumni and visitors student organization. In the at their concession stand on the past, violations have also day of the Stanford game. resulted in the confiscation of 
"You can sell rude shirts to several groups' merchandise, students, but we wanted to said Joe Cassidy, director of the cater to alumni and parents Office of Student Activities. too," he said. Cassidy said merchandising 
According to DuLac, Univer­infractions by individual stu­sity recognized student organ­dents are handled by the Office izations and campus residence of Residence Life. halls are eligible to apply for a No students have been permit allowing them to penalized so far for selling T­engage in a merchandising ac­shirts related to the Miami tivity on the Notre Dame game, according to Dr. Ann campus. Firth, director of Residence 
Individual students represe­Life. nting only their own interests Only two Miami theme prod­are prohibited from selling ucts currently have merchan­products on campus unless dising permits, Cassidy said. 
MIAMI WEEKEND EVENTS 
FRIDAY 
4:45--6 p.m.: Open Glee Club rehearsal in Crowley Hall. 
6:45p.m.: Band step-off for Pep Rally. 
7 p.m.: Pep Rally at Stepan Center. 
SATURDAY 
9 a.m.-1:30 p.m.: Notre Dame and Saint Mary's alumni, 
family and friends are cordially invited to the Alumni 
Hospitality Center in the JACC North Dome. 
9:30 a.m.: Closed meeting of the Alcoholics Anonymous Fellowship at the Center for Social Concerns. 
11:30 a.m.: Glee Club performance in the JACC North Dome. 
11 :55 a.m.: Band concert on Administration Building steps. Noon: Performance by Shenanigans in the JACC North Dome. 
12:35 p.m.: Band line-up and step-off from Washington 
Hall. 1 p.m.: Pre-game program. 
1:40 p.m. Football: Notre Dame Fighting Irish vs. Miami 
Hurricanes. After the game: Alumni Hospitality Center in the JACC. 
The Observer I Mike Moran 

As the countdown to Miami runs out, students find themselves selling, buying and sporting all sorts of Miami wear--"of the hateful kind." 
The sophomore, junior and senior classes received permis­sion to sell postcards for stu­dents to send to Miami stu­dents. Morrissey Hall has. a permit to sell T -shirts which say "Once and For All, ND vs. U Miami." 
Quinn said he had an­ticipated a lot of red tape, but the application process "was much more simple than I im­agined." 
'Quarter Mile' to fund United Way charities 
By KATHY RYAN News Staff 
Hall Presidents' Council will be hosting "The Quarter Mile," a fundraiser for the United 
• Way, tomorrow from 9 a.m.-5 
p.m. on South Quad. 
A mile of tape will be set up in front of the bookstore for stu­dents and passers-by to attach quarters. 
Tom King, president of Mor­rissey Hall, is credited with bringing "The Quarter Mile" to Notre Dame. King was first in­troduced to "The Quarter Mile" by a friend from Purdue University. 
The maximum amount of money that can be made is $13,000 although Michelle Larose, Co-Chairman of HPC, said they expect to make $1000­$1500 for the United Way, given that one of four students donates. 
"I encourage everybody to come down. Just give one quar­ter. It could really be a good thing," said Larose. 
Larose also commented that all hall presidents participated in finding volunteers to work on shifts to oversee the event. They will also be supplying change for bills and accepting donations. 


Four N.D. students 

1 considered , for Rhodes 
Cassidy said his office usually responds to the appli­cants within 24 hours. 
The Morrissey presidents decided that 10 percent of the gross profits should be given to the dorm, Quinn said. The money will be used to buy a second dorm computer and to pay for SYRs and section 
events.  
"It has become  one  of  our  
better  fundraisers  for  the  
dorm," he said.  

By DAN MURPHY Senior Staff Reporter 
Five Notre Dame students have the intellectual capacity, sense of purpose, and potential for leadership necessary to win Rhodes and Marshall scholar­ships, according to Donald Sniegowski, chairman of the Notre Dame Selection Commit­tee for the Rhodes and Mar­shall scholarships. 
Seniors Eric Lanciault, Milda Palubinskas, Robert Raphael and Theresa Rice gained the selection commit­tee's endorsement for both scholarships. Senior Heather Ingraham, who did not apply for the Rhodes Scholarship, was endorsed for the Marshall Scholarship. 
With the endorsements the five students will move on to state or regional competition and if chosen will compete on the national level for a chance to study in Great Britain for two years. Winners of the Rhodes Scholarship study at the University of Oxford while Marshall Scholarship recipients study a pursue a pro­posed course of study at one of forty-five universities, chosen by the candidates in the initial application. 
"I'm quite pleased, but it's a bit intimidating, because along with the scholarship endorse­ment you carry with you what Notre Dame stands for," said Lanciault, an architecture and art history major. "I'm up against kids from the Ivy League schools, in no way do I feel confident," he said. 
Sniegowski is more confident of the Notre Dame nominees. "It was a very difficult decision 
see RHODES, page 4 

Ready, break, 
This is the last issue of The Observer before October break. Publication will resume on Tuesday, Oct. 
25. The Observer wishes you a happy and safe break. 



VOL. XXII, NO. 37 WEEKEND EDITION, OCTOBER 13-15, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Irish Extra 
Miami at

L.J 
Notre Dame 


Accent 

Message man Psychedelic Furs 
----------~-_.,._...----~--~------­
Weekend Edition, October 13-15, 1988

page 2 The Observer 
IN BRIEF 
Lech Walesa told U.S. envoy John C. Whitehead on Wednesday he will insist in negotiations with Communist authorities that the Solidarity labor movement be made legal again. The agreed-uf?On "round t~,ble" talks are tentatively scheduled to begm next week. The talks ~ust be fast and refusal of Solidarity is out of the question," Walesa told reporters after his meeting in Gdansk with Whitehead, the deputy U.S. secretary of state. "Sol~dB;ri~y must be." Whitehead commented, "We are opbm1sbc about the round table. This is the first sign of unity in Poland and we hope that it will be realized." -Associated 
Press 


OF INTEREST 
Haiti and Bolivia Discussion at the Center for Social Concerns tomorrow at 4 p.m. Kevin Healy and Bob Maguire will discuss concerns based on their visits to these countries. -The Observer 
Servicet.earning Opportunity with handicapped adults in small L' Arch households in Toronto, Canada is still available during fall break. Contact Angi at 239-5293 for more information. -The Observer 
The Philippine Club will meet today at 5:15p.m. in the Library Circle for a trip to Bruno's. All are welcome. 
-The Observer 
A Northern Ireland Seminar will be held today at the Center for Social Concerns. A 10-day study in Ireland is available for 10 students only. -The Observer 
Hospitality Lunch_ today at the Center for _social Concerns features Thai food from 11:30 a.m. until 1:30 
p.m. -The Observer 
Amnesty International will be featured today on WVFI AM 640 radio from at 10 p.m. Call in at 239-6400. 
-The Observer 
Weight Manag~ment: A Psycol?gica! Approac~ is the topic of a 5 sessiOn workshop at Umversity Co~nselmg beginning Oct. 24 at 4: 15 p.m. Students may register by calling 239-7336 during business hours. -The Observer 
The NO Quarter Mile is a charity event for United Way. Stick your spare quarters to the mile of tape outside the Bookstore from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. tomorrow. -The Ob­server 
Foreign Study Applif?ati~ns for spri~g 1989 in Jerusalem, Cairo, and Mexico City are due Friday, Oct. 15, in Room 420, Administration Building. Call 239-5882 for more information. -The Observer 
CBS Sports production crew will hold a_ lecture on television sports journalism today at 3 p.m. m the Res­burgh Library Auditorium. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 

Accent Designer ________________ Mike Conway 
Design Editor--------------------Alison Cocks Design Assistant _.. _--.. __ .... Beth Peterson Typists.·----·--------·---·----·---Diane Bradley Typesettera .. ____ Bernard Bre_nninkmey~r 
............................................. Will Zamer ND Day Editor---·· Margaret McCloskey
.......................................... J1m Mercuno 
News Editor _______________________ Sara Marley SMC Day Editor----·----·-----Maura Reidy Copy Editor---------·--·--··-Christine Walsh 
Photographer -------Zoltan Ury
Sports Copy Editor·--·---·--------Pete Skik.o Viewpoint Copy Editor __ Ann Hebenstreit Irish Extra Copy Editor .. Marty Strasen 
Accent Editor-····----___ Trisha Chambers Irish Extra Copy Editors.... Alison Cocks 
Accent Copy Editor .. Michelle Berninger ... __ ............................... Annette Rowland 
Tile Olleener (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. ne Oblener is publis~ ~Y the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S25 per semester) by writing De Olllener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. . 
ne 011eenw is a member of ne Allodatecl ""-· All reproduction nghts are 
reserved. 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Why will we beat Miami? 'Cause this is Notre Dame 
Beat the rush. Hate Miami now. 
Four years and a month or two ago, lots of Notre Dame people got on buses and rode three hours to a concrete tent in Indianapolis. Here I was, a psyched-up freshman, awaiting my first Notre Dame victory. Since we lost to Purdue that day, it was a long, quiet ride home. On the way back, someone laughed and said "Oh well, so we lost. Don't get so uptight." 
At least four people told her to shut her mouth. "You don't understand," they said. "This is Notre Dame." 
Three years back I flew down to Miami to vacation with my -family and catch the Miami game. We had had a mediocre season but hoped to give Miami a battle. That was the famed 58-7 debacle. Beating their basketball team by 51 didn't help. Being spat on by Miami fans didn't help either. I'm told they urinate on fans too, but I missed that. 
I've never seen Notre Dame fans physically abuse other schools' fans in four and a half years of tailgating and roadtripping. That's be­cause this is Notre Dame. 
Last year some friends and I drove the nineteen hours to Miami to bake in the sun and watch the game. We were abused by Miami fans on the way there and had to put up with microphoned cheerleaders and a fake C02 hur­ricane. But we sat in the top row and cheered on our team. 
Jimmy Johnson supposedly said after that loss to Miami that he "couldn't wait for October 15th." We don't bother badmouthing teams we've just defeated here. This is Notre Dame. 
At Michigan State the Notre Dame student section of about 500 stood for the entire game and made about as much noise as the entire Michigan State crowd. Meanwhile, we were yelled at by an old man to "stop standing up so much. It's annoying." 
He didn't understand. This is Notre Dame. 
Last week's Pitt game was soaking wet and fairly cold for most of the game. We sat through it and watched in the Notre Dame section along with the marching band and some of the more die-hard roadtrip veterans on campus. Mean­while, three sections of the Pitt student area were empty by halftime. We remarked on this only to be told by a Pitt fan that "most of the students are here." 
Most isn't good enough here. This is Notre Dame. In the thirteen years plus I've been watching Notre Dame football (I'm an alumni kid) I have 
Mark 0
Mclaughlin 
News Editor 


JOI-\N SON WIL.t.. HA~€ A HEADACHE TH\S 6\G ... 
never seen a game as big as this one. You can see it all over campus, on peoples' T-shirts, on banners, in the 'ND' signs in the windows, in newspapers all over the country, in classifieds like the one above. 
Notre Dame fans have been given lots of publicity for their interest in this game, and for their sometimes Miamiesque behavior. Let's face it, cursing out Jimmy's secretary is uncool. But by and large, Notre Dame students are psyched for the game. As far as hatred goes: hey, God hates things, too. 
There was a special on one of the TV halftime shows last year rating the most difficult stadiums to win in. Notre Dame, sad to say, was ranked only second. We've won there late­ly, but to be acclaimed the best, we will simply have to beat the best of the rest. 
This Saturday, we will go to the most hyped football game any of us have probably seen at Notre Dame. We will yell and scream and chant S-C-U-M and give Jimmy a headache. We will make noise for the entire game, not just the first drive and the last quarter. And we will win. 
Because this is Notre Dame. 
Don't Just beat the rush. Beat Miami. 


Wish your friends a Happy Birthday Call 239·5303 through Observer advertising. tqrdetalls. 

Tonight: COUNTDOWN TO MIAMI! 
Come dance to your favorite music played oy campus D.J.'s. Enjoy the night before the game of the year at Theodore'sI Don't forget to check out the HIDEAWAY featuring a tropical drink special. 
Open 10-1. 


A DISASTER OF STAGGERING PROPORTIONS 
• 
most of the rice crop destroyed 

• 
cholera and dysentery spreading 

• 
starvation on the horizon 


On Mission Sunday, all collections in Sacred Heart Church will go to the Bangladesh Relief Fund of Holy Cross. 
For further information, contact: 
Rev. James]. Ferguson, C.S.C. Holy Cross Missions Center P. 0. Box 543 Notre Dame, IN. 46556 
-· -­

_____________________________] 
Weekend Edition, October 13-15, 1988 The Observer 

week, some Keenan residents have seen a lighter number-one-ranked Miami Hurricanes. side to the upcoming football confrontation 
gays and lesbians at notre dame/st. mary's college presents 

LARRY BAKER 
speaking on 

THE CONDITION OF THE BLACK GAY MAN IN AMERICAN SOCIETY 
thursday, october 13th, at 7:30pm the first unitarian church 101 e. north shore drive Cat michigan) south bend, indiana 
glnd/smc p.o. box 194 notre dame, In 46556 


Mission Sunday October 23 
THEME: HELPING BANGLADESH --AN ND-SMC TRADITION 
• 
Over 50 grads now serving in Bangladesh 

• 
Hall collections for Notre Dame College in Dhaka 

• 
The presence of Holy Cross Priests, Brothers and Sisters for 135 years 


• 
56 years of Bengal Boutes' contributions 

page 3 




Novak: Symbolism needed in '88 race 
By REGIS COCCIA Senior Staff Reporter 
The 1988 presidential election will be determined by the ex­tent to which the candidates identify with the American people, a noted political obser­ver said Wednesday night in the second of a three-lecture se­ries. 
Michael Novak, visiting Welch professor of American studies, told an audience in the Center for Continuing Educa­tion that the presidential elec­tion is about how Americans view themselves and their country. 
In the series titled, "Choos­ing Our King: A Monthly Elec-. tion Watch" Novak said the campaign of Republican presidential nominee George Bush has succeeded in project­~ng an image the people can identify with. But Democratic nominee Michael Dukakis has not, he said. 
''The presidents are the main hooks on which we hang our na­tional identity," Novak said. "We're electing someone who carries with him, in literary symbols or otherwise, the sym­bol of our peoplehood." 
Polls early in the race indi­cate~ a wide lead for Dukakis, but recent polls show a much closer race between the two candidates, with some giving Bush an edge, said Novak, director of social and political studies at the American Enter­prise Institute in Washington, D.C. 
"It's been a curious reversal, but I think the Bush campaign has realized that becoming king involves assembling a majority who want to say, 'He's one of us, he's what we want the country to become like."' said Novak. 
Campaign issues such as the Pledge of Allegiance have been treated as trivial but are actu­ally very important to the sym­bolic reality of the presidency, Novak said. 
"The issues, in short, are not trivial, though the experts and the journalists think they are. Bush seems to be where the people are, and Dukakis seems to be where the experts are," he said. 
"It has to do with whether you believe in the Constitution, whether you believe in the power of the office of the pres­ident, whether you want values in education, values that sup­port the Constitution," Novak said. 
"Dukakis does not under­stand symbols, and to that ex­tent he's falling behind in the polls," Novak said. "He didn't grasp the importance of the presidency as the main vehicle for what I would call symbolic realism," he said. 
Another factor which will af­
fect the election is seven 
"swing states": California, Il­
linois, Michigan, New Jersey, 
Ohio, Pennsylvania and Texas, 
six of which lean toward Bush, 
Novak said. Combined, these 
states have a total of 184 elec­
toral votes, he said. 




~ =pa=g~e~4~----~------------------------------~------~T~h~e~O~~~~N~e~r____________________________w_e_ek_e_n_d~E~d~itio~n~,~O~c=to=b=er_1~3~-1~5~,~19~88 
r Rhodes r;:,ss::iJh~:;~~~l.onac~~~~~ Polls show Bush holds lead 
continued from page 1 

and I am very confident about the people we have chosen," he said. "The candidates are very strong, they were rigorously selected," he added. The Notre Dame selection committee, which consists of eight mem­bers, deliberated for a total of almost 13 hours before choos­ing the five nominees, accor­ding to Sniegowski. 
Past Notre Dame students have fared well in the scholar­ship competitions, said Sniegowski. Three Notre Dame students won Rhodes Scholar­ships and one was awarded a Marshall Scholarship in the last four years, according to Sniegowski. 
A combined background in 
· and humanities im­and philosophy major. "I was 
surprised and delighted (by the endorsement)," said Raphael, "but there's a long way to go." 
The committee interviewed 11 of 37 applicants and nominated five students for the scholarships. Rhodes Scholar­ships will be awarded to 32 uni­versity students nationwide, and up to 30 students will be seledted for the Marshall Scholarship. 
"I'm pleased I got this far," said Lanciault, "it's probably going to be a lot harder before it gets easier. I'm taking one day at a time," he said. 
~~ 

fSOCIE1Y41 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK --A state-by­state poll of nearly 10,000 likely voters released Wednesday rated George Bush solidly ahead in the race for the presidency, saying he held a huge lead in the contest for electoral votes. 
Although polls of the nation as a whole indicate a close race between Bush and Michael Dukakis, the ABC News­Washington Post survey of the standings in each state --where the election actually is decided --put Bush firmly ahead. 
ABC reported that Bush led solidly in 21 states with a total of 220 electoral votes --just 50 short of the total needed to win. Dukakis was firmly ahead in three states and Washington, D.C., for 30 electoral votes. 
With the election nearly a month off, voter sentiments can change. But the ABC-Post poll, the only public survey of its size this year, was the first recent poll to indicate a signif­icant advantage for either can­didate. 

The poll was conducted from Sept. 21 through Monday among 9,778likely voters in the 50 states and the District of Co­lumbia. ABC said it had a mar­gin of error of plus or minus three percentage points. 
ABC and the Post also con­ducted a standard national sur­vey that put the race at 51 per­cent for Bush to 45 percent to Dukakis. 
THE LAW CARAVAN is COMING 
October 25th 12-4 pm at Center 
Hitachi 0-7000 ••••••••••• REG $249 ••••••• .$179.95 •••. 
Scott 952 •••••••••••••••••REG $269 •••••••• $199.95 .~. 
Scott 963•••••••••••••~ ••• REG $299 •••••••• $259.95 ffarmon Kardon HD-100•••REG $375 , ••••••• $279.95 
Akai CD32 ················REG $350········$299.95 Philips C0680 ••••••••••••REG $425 ••••••• $349.95 Philips no............... REG $550 •••• ••. •$429.95 Harmon Kardon HD-800 REG $650 ••••. $499.95 Akai CD 73 •••••••••••••••REG $899 .•••• $799.95 Philips 960 •••••••••••••• REG $949 •••• .$899.95 Akai 93~ •••••••••••••••••• REG $1099 •• .$999.95 

Sale ends October 20th 
~~~~~~~./} . 
3915 Grape Rd. (Just north of Edison) 
Where Knowledge Makes All The Difference 
MON-FRI 11 AM-9 PM, SAT 10 AM-9 PM SUN NOON-S PM 
ALSO CHECK OUR SALE ON HOME STEREO COMPONENTS, CAR STEREOS, VIDEO RECORDERS AND MONITOR TELEVISIONS AND LARGE SCREENc; 

Ask about student discounts 





277-1801 

~-----~--------~ 
Weekend Edition, October 13-15, 1988 
The Observer 
page 5 

LaFortune computer lab opens 
By JIM LANG 
News Staff 
The LaFortune Computer Lab is now available to stu­dents on a test basis until its October 24th grand opening, according to Scott Cowdrey, director of User Services. 
The lab, located in the base­ment of the LaFortune Student Center, is equipped with 50 Macintosh SE computers. All are connected to the lab's two laser printers, enabling a stu­dent to print from any termi­nal, Cowdrey said. 
Certainly one of the objec­tives of the lab is to give stu­dents easier access to comput­ing, Cowdrey said, but a more long term objective is to in­crease the usage of computing in the teaching curriculum. 
Cowdrey hopes that with the opening of this new lab, and a remodeled lab in O'Shaugnessy, "the faculty will make more use of comput­ing in the way they teach." 
The lab's hours match LaFortune's, and Cowdrey said that there will always be a consultant available to assist students who may ~ having problems or are unfamiliar with the system. 
One consultant, senior Gary Wong, said that since the lab's preliminary opening on Mon­day response has been "moderate", but he thinks that the lab will fill up as. the semes­ter goes on. 
Computers will be available to the students on a first-come, first-served basis, said Cowdrey, and if no terminals are available, a student can take a number and wait. 

Security anticipates no problems 
By CINDY PETRITES 
Staff Reporter 
The University will not in­crease security over next week's fall break, despite the huge turnout expected for Sat­urday's football game against the University of Miami. 
"We're not anticipating any particular problems," said Notre Dame assistant security director Phillip Johnson, who also indicated that security will be maintained for the duration of the break. 
Johnson does not foresee the football game posing any spe­cial threat to the security of the dorms. 
"We expect a lot of energy and extra exuberance this weekend with the Miami game," Johnson said, "but Se­curity is prepared to handle any 'misfocused energy'." 
Johnson did, however, rec­ommend that students take a few necessary precautions before they leave for break. 
"Never leave anything that can't be replaced in your room. Make sure your windows and doors are locked and your shades are closed," he said. 
Johnson also requested that students staying on campus be sure to report any suspicious activity, stressing that security is "only a phone call away," and "never too busy to check out a call." 
Johnson added, "We all have to work together to make Notre Dame a safe place." 
Though the dorms will be access to their dorms by key or Detex. 
locked  for  the  duration  of  
break,  students  who  are  
staying  on  campus will have  

"It's up to each individual hall as to how they secure the hall during break," said Evelyn Reinebold, director of Student Residences. 
Reduced student population and reduced legitimate space use are some factors which contribute to crime during breaks, but, says Johnson, break-ins on campus are rare. 
"Most crimes on campus are crimes of opportunity," said Johnson, "like stealing a book­bag from the dining hall." 
The only theft reported during a vacation break last year happened during October break. A Keenan Hall resident reported to Security the theft of 15-20 compact disks worth $250 from his room to last fall. 

. 
'}. 

The Observer I Zoltan Ury 

Junior John Failor works diligently in the new Mac lab in the basement of the LaFortune Student Center. 
You can judge some books by their covers. 
C onviser Duffy & Miller knows how to write books that get  Our books represent an integral part of our highly re­ to formulate t;Jersonal study p·lans that will further encour­ 
great reviews. With our name  spected program. Respected  age your involvement in  
on the cover, you are assured  enough to be incorporated as  classes administered live by  
of getting the most compre­ part of the educational curric­ accounting professionals.  
hensive study aids available.  ulum at major universities  Maybe that's why over 75% of  
The Conviser Duffy & Miller  throughout the country.  all our students become CPAs.  
textbook series is updated  Our review series has even  With the Conviser Duffy &  
throughout the year to provide  more to offer. Before you get  Miller CPA Review ... you're  
you with the most current  into the books, Conviser Duffy  bound for success.  
information you'll need to  & Miller has designed compu­ 
achieve your goal.  terized diagnostic "Pre-Tests"  
"  
1-800-2 7 4-EXAM  CONViSER  





~----·---OUFFYtlMILLER 
~~ 

-· ~-~ ··----~-~ ---~---~--­
Weekend Edition, October 13-15, 1988
The Observer
page6 

WordProcessinglOl. There is agrim reality of college llfe that you may just one example of how Macintosh helps students \vork or may not be acquainted with.'JYping. smarter, quicker and more creatively No, make that hours of typing. Precisely why you The good news is, with Macintosh you don't have should consider aMacintosh'M computer. to know anything about computers to use one. With programs llke WriteNow and Microsoft Word, The better news is, you don't have to kno\v any you can compose, edit, move paragraphs, and change type thing about white out, either. sizes and styles with one finger. Which can come in very handy (Especially if that's the way you type.) And that's tl:!lThe power to be your besr Computer Center Room 25 Math Building 8:00AM-5:00PM Dear Dad, School is great Although a little more moneywould make it even better_ ©1987Apple Computer, Inc., Apple andthe Apple logo are registeredtmdemarks if,andMacintosh and Thepowerlo he)'OW'hesta1t' tmdemarks q[Apple Computer,Inc. Micrmofi is a regislerr!dtmdemark if,and Wontis atmdemark ifMicrosofl Corp. WrileNow is a registeredtmdemark qfAJRUS.  

_j 
----------------~-.--~--~-..-------~--~~----------~-------------------------------------------------------------------~~--~--­
Weekend Edition, October 13-15, 1988 The Observer page7 
• 
The Observer I Zoltan Ury Keenan Hall resident Chris Paulson digs into the pyramid of fruit featured at North Dining Hall yesterday as part of the health theme. 





Pope's first decade reviewed 
By NATE FITZGERALD During his ten years, the seeing increasingly conserva­News Staff Pope has steadfastly upheld tive and unimaginative bishops church doctrine on various con­across the country," McCor­
Pope John Paul II will troversial issues. mick said, and as a result, "an celebrate his lOth anniversary Father Charles Curran, a awful lot of Catholics feel aban­as the earthly head of the tenured Catholic University doned and alienated by their Roman Catholic Church this professor had his Canonical bishops." Saturday. Mission withdrawn because he Ellen Weaver, Assistant 
During these ten years he has disagreed with some of the Chairman of the Theology de­travelled around the world Church's practical moral partment, described Pope John speaking on the doctrine of the teaching in areas such as con­Paul as a very complex person. Catholic Church, and acted as traception, homosexuality, and "Some see this pope as very the voice of the oppressed in divorce and remarriage. radical in his social views," various third world nations. Father Richard McCormick, Weaver said, "because they 
Notre Dame faculty see him a professor of Christian Ethics, see his doctrine as critical of as a complex pope, and hold said that this issue came down capitalism." different opinions of his to "whether or not it is permis­At the same time, Weaver doctrine. sible to publicly dissent from said, "some accuse him of 
Father Robert Pelton, direc­those (church) teachings." being far to the right." Weaver tor of the Institute for Pastoral McCormick also said that the cited as an example, John and Social Ministry, said that Pope is a master at using the Paul's firm stance requiring John Paul "has a concern for media to his advantage. He that religious garb be worn. the millions of poor people also praised the Pope's Yet, in Poland, where Cat­throughout the world." "energy, prayerfulness, and holics are a minority and a 
Pelton sees this as one of the his vitality," saying that "he voice against communism, pope's best attributes, and said has been a wonderful minister Weaver said that "wearing re­John Paul's social awareness of the gospel." At the same ligious garb is a sign of works as a starting point for time, McCormick also said that defiance of the government." social programs around the John Paul is "obviously "The Church's concerns globe. According to Pelton' 'the tightening the screws on moral could be formulated more ac­Pope has issued documents disagreements." curately," Weaver said. that are very articulate in To do this, the Pope has kept The Pope's stance on artifi · regard to the needs of the third strict control over the appoint­cial birth control has often been world." ment of bishops, "We are questioned during recent 
years. 
~----~-----· ® 
The American Express" Card can play a starring role virtually anywhere you shop, from Tulsa to Thailand. Whether you're buying a1V or aT-shirt. So during college and after. it's the perfect way to pay for just about evel)1hing you'll want. 
How to get the Card now. College is the first sign of success. And because we believe in your potential, we've made it easier to get the American Express Card right now Whether you're a freshman, senior or grad student, look into our new automatic approval offers. For details, pick up an application on campus. Or calll-800-TIIE-CARD and ask for a student application. The American Express Caret. Don't Leave School Without lt5"' 
II 
TRAVEl 
RElATED 
• SBMCES 

"There are very few Catholic 
couples that don't use some form of artificial birth control and are still good practicing Catholics," Weaver said. 
The prospect of female priests has also been a subject of debate under Pope John Paul. He has stood firm in not allowing women to become priests, though many feel that he has not fully justified this stance. 
"I don't know of any solid biblical or theological reason for excluding women from the 
priesthood,"  Father  McCor­ 
mick said.  
The  question  of  female  

priests has been researched and reported on by committees of both the Catholic Biblical As­sociation and the Catholic Theological Society. Neither of these found that there was anything biblical or theological standing in the way, according to McCormick. "I think we ought to have women priests," McCormick said," and prob­ably will under a different pon­tiff." 

r 
~--------~--------~­
Weekend Edition, October 13-15, 1988
page 8 The Observer 

Least stressful cities named 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The best place to live in the United States, in terms of psychological well­being, is State College, Pa., and the worst place is Reno, Nev., according to a researcher writing in Psychology Today magazine. 
Bloomington and Lafayette­West Lafayette, Ind., also were among the 25 best places to live, the magazine said. 
Robert Levine, a psycholo­gist at California State Univer­sity in Fresno, ranked 286 metropolitan areas based on rates of crime, suicide, al­coholjsm and divorce rates. 
Levine said he was surprised that "the West and South, known for their mild climates and easy living, ranked highest and second highest respec­tively on all four types of pa­thology.'' 
He said the 25 best places were: State College; Grand Forks, N.D.; St. Cloud, Minn.; Rochester, Minn.; McAllen­Pharr-Edinburg, Texas; Al­toona, Pa.; Bloomington, Ind.; Provo-Orem, Utah; Utica, N.Y.; Akron, Ohio; Sheboygen, Wis.; Lancaster, Pa.; Paterson-Clifton-Passaic, N.J.; Bismarck, N.D.; Allentown-Bethlehem-Easton, Pa.; Lafayette-West Lafayette, Ind.; Long Island in New York; Poughkeepsie, N.Y.; Albany-Schenectady­Troy, N.Y.; Lawrence, Kan.; New Bedford-Fall River, Mass.; Bloomington-Normal, Ill.; Wheeling, W.Va.; Cum­berland, Md., and Wausau, Wis. 
The 25 worst were: Reno; Las Vegas, Nev.; Miami; Lakeland-Winter Haven, Fla.; North Little Rock-Little Rock, Ark.; Panama City, Fla.; Odessa, Texas; Jacksonville, Fla.; S~n Francisco-Oakland; Los Angeles-Long Beach; West Palm Beach-Boca Raton, Fla.; Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood, Fla.; Phoenix, Ariz.; Okla­homa City.; Orlando, Fla.; Sacramento, Calif.; Ocala, Fla.; Bakersfield, Calif.; Tampa-St. Petersburg­Clearwater, Fla.; New York; Houston; Riverside-San Ber­nardino, Calif.; Stockton, Calif.; Tacoma, Wash., and Tucson, Ariz. 

Soviets may implement income tax 

Associated Press 
MOSCOW -Another Western institution may soon follow rock music and fast food into Soviet society: the ritual of filing annual financial returns and paying a progressive in­come tax. 
A pair of economists said in articles published Wednesday that a complete reform of the 
Soviet tax system is necessary to expose those who have made fortunes in the multibillion dol­lar black market, and spread income more equitably. 
"To search for some kind of scientific approach in our sys-
tern of taxation is useless,'' Deputy Finance Minister Vik­
~~s~~:~~~s~old the weekly Semenov and economist v. Yaroshenko, writing in the Communist Party daily news-
Paper Pravda, both said a yearly statement of income 
and expenditures was essen­ti~.aroshenko added that the 
income tax should be made 
more progressive, as it is in fma:neyr tothper rcpoeuonptlreie.s, to be 
... 0 00 Currently, Soviets pay a flat 

~~/i~~~~~ ~~~~~~s;~~~~;3~~
a month, the average industrial 
h · f


:~~i.:~}~'::cr~r;h~E 
tax structure hurts the poor, Yaroshenko said. He suggested the government impose more progressive income taxes, and that illegal millionaires be al­lowed to give their ill-gotten wealth to state-run charities anonymously before filing their financial statements. 
Yaroshenko's article was the second published in Pravda in two days to address the effects 
of economic reforms on the So­viet poor. 
In an article published Tues­day, a farm economist said in­creasing food prices would be an unacceptable way to elimi­
nate the $105 billion the govern­
ment pays every year m sub­sidies. Instead, Kim. N. 
workers don't need to file an­
nual tax returns. 
"Declarations of income and light industry and food process­ing, two areas of the economy Soviet President Mikhail Gor­bachev is urgently trying to reform to provide a better life for Soviet citizens. 
Taxes significantly raise the retail price of refrigerators, vacuum cleaners, TV sets and tape recorders, he said. 
The wholesale price of a Volga, the largest standard passenger car produced in the country, is $5,460. Mter indi­rect taxes are added, however, 
the final retail price is  more  
than $25,600.  
Black  marketeering  and  

other organized crime sap the economy of more money every year than is paid out in benefits to pensioners, invalids, stu­dents, families with many children' and orphans, he said. 
It is so well-organized that it constitutes a "government within the government," he said. 
The current economic and Khmelkov said the Soviet 
Union must make farming 
much more efficient 
In yet another arti~le printed Wednesday, Moscow News said that in the first half of the year, $130,000 was confiscated in the Soviet capital from people illegally trading rubles for hard currencies. But it said police are nowhere near able 

to control the problem. The Observer I Zoltan Ury
Domer to be? 

Western tourists are ap-A young girl takes time out to read while having some good food at 
proached near hotels and the Huddle yesterday afternoon. 
tourist sites in large cities by I I ·----------­hordes of people offering to ex-1 ~· change money. Such ex-a1 changes are illegal and give the 1 ~ Soviets access to goods they I ~ 
cannot buy in the official eco­nomy. 




pauI
B • 
QfleSSI 
Happy 
•


Birthday 
October 13, 1988 Love,
Mom, Dad, Jimmy and Lynne 
I ,., 
' ~
I 
I

,•.; 

~ The lnternationai'Student Organization is 
l.· tl d 1 • bl' t· d d' t d t 
curren y eve op1ng a pu 1ca 1on e 1ca e o
I promote awareness and understanding of 
I_, · j.~ w:r~r~ti~~~i~~sro~sp~~~r;ri~~~r~~~~dbfn ~~edents. 
1 follow~ng poS1t1ons: • Editors 
1

.• I . Operation Manager
~-·· 

~~·.·.·.-. ·Photo Manager
Applications will be available at the ISO lounge, second floor La Fortune Center until Friday 
O~.r ~~re information, call: Manuel Cuevas 1233 
Felix Villalba 2465 .w 

• lntemafionalstudent Organ~ation 
11 
~ ~ 
1..... 'J 
-·-··· ~--•'··
1'-' 
I 
~~ 
·.




:...: 
I 
.., I 
~~ 
I 
·•'· 
I I 
I ~ 
1 
I'_'_' 
~~·-··.·. 
I.. ~----·,·:· ·'·-· ~~-.-·_··_-_­
i
i! 

deducted at the work place and p•••••••••••••••••••••••..llllil.lliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii:iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.-~ 


WEDDING WEEK PLANS: 
Tues., Oct. 25 Toast the bride-and-groom-to-be at their engagement party at Alumni-Senior Club from 9-2. Wed., Oct. 26 Bachelorette party at Chip's Sports Bar Thurs., Oct. 27 Bachelor Party at the Linebacker Lounge Fri., Oct. 28 Rehearsal Dinner at Jeremiah Sweeney's free Buffet from 4:30 to 8:00 Sat., Oct. 29 Weddingless Reception Sun., Oct. 30 Mass at 4:00 p.m. dinner to follow 
(Look for more details when you return from break!) 
................................................................................................ 
-~--~-­

Weekend Edition, October 13-15, 1988 The Observer page 9 




t>;ty· 


AP Photo 
'""' r 

FDA Protest 
Police move in to break up an AIDS protest at the Food and Drug 
Administration headquarters in Rockville, Md., Tuesday. Hundreds of 
demonstrators urged that experimental AIDS treatments begin. 
.....................

I;======~= ........,..... -======:w 
IF YOU WANT TO BE APHYSICIAN, WE'LL PAY FOR IT. 
If you're willing to invest your skills and k.nowledge as an Air Force medical officer. we'll invest in you and pay your way through medical school if you qualify. Irs the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. It pays for: 
• 
Tuition; 

• 
Books, supplies, equipment and lab fees; 

• 
Plus a monthly income of more 


than $650. Call 
USAF HEALTH PROFESSIONS 317-848-5830 COLLECT 
...---_. .....-..
_...,........
~= 
...~..a.r=lli­
;; -~ --=--~ 


Candidates brace for debate 
Associated Press Democratic candidate .:!ncounter with a modest Jeaa Dukakis had baseball on his in the public opinion polls, al­
Neither George Bush nor Mi­mind as well, as he interrupted though Dukakis appears to chael Dukakis came in contact his debate homework to play have cut into the Republican with the voters on Wednesday, catch with an aide while advantage since last week's huddling instead with their photographers recorded the vice presidential debate. handlers to go over lines for scene. Thursday's second and final Referring to the first Republican vice presidential presidential debate of the cam­presidential debate and the one candidate Dan Quayle, the sub­paign. last week between running ject of anonymous criticism 
Bush staged a brief made­mates, he said, "We're ahead from senior Bush advisers for-television event before dis­2-0; we're going to make it a since that debate, said as he set appearing into his debate prep­clean sweep." out on his daily campaign aration meetings. He invited He described his debate rounds that if he finds out who 
Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl repertoire in baseball lingo, as was talking, "I think there will Gates in for breakfast in a well, saying he would use a be staff changes." subtle continuation of his effort "fastball, curve, slider--maybe to make crime control a central a knuckler" during his 90 Quayle uttered a seeming theme of his candidacy. minutes on stage. declaration of independence 
The vice president told Workers in Los Angeles after saying his campaign ap­reporters he intended to show erected a debate-night set-­pearances had been so tightly the country "what my wooden lecterns, red carpet scripted by Bush advisers that heartbeat is" during his face­and telegenic blue background­he was told when he could wave to-face clash with Dukakis and -that was trucked in from as he got off his campaign said he would continue depict­Omaha, where it was used in plane. ing his rival as a liberal. last week's vice presidential 
Bush also arranged to attend debate. "That's all been thrown the National League playoff away," he said. "I am my own game between the Los Angeles The debate begins at 9 p.m. handler, and if you have any Dodgers and New York Mets EDT on the UCLA campus in questions, ask me." He said he after wrapping up his debate Los Angeles. would take advice from Bush's oreparation for the day. Bush goes into the 90-minute aides "under consideration." 
Congress votes to close military bases 
Associated Press shortly afterward with a 370-31 "We are addressing one of vote, which sent the measure the great sacred cows in this 
WASHINGTON -Congress to President Reagan. He is ex­country and in this body," said overwhelmingly passed legis­pec~d to sign it. Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas. lation Wednesday authorizing Tfie Defense Department es­The bill sets up a complicated 
the Pentagon to close unneeded timates that between $2 billion base-closing procedure which military bases at a savings of and $5 billion a year can be essentially cuts through the up to $5 billion a year. saved if it is permitted to pare thicket of laws enacted by 
The Senate approved the bill down the list of 3,800 U.S. mil­Congress in the past decade to 82-7 and the House followed itary installations. thwart Pentagon efforts to shut down bases. 
Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., chair­man of the Armed Services Committee, said, "We know we

AftENTION 

cannot afford excess bases that we don't need, (but) we all also understand the reality and the

JUNIORS! 

sensitivity of the communities in America that are so depen­
Now acceptin8 applications for 
dent, in some cases, on these bases, at least in the short run, 
JPW Executive Committee! and we know that reflects itself here in the Congress." 
The bill endorses a Pentagon­appointed commission whichAvailable in has been meeting for months, 
Office of Student Activities trying to put together a list of bases to be closed. The current 
or from Chris Boron in 241 P.W. 
panel will be expanded to 12 Due b 5 , Frida Oct. 14th members by the bill. 
The panel will make its recommendations by Dec. 31. Defense Secretary Frank Car­
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
lucci would have until Jan. 15­-five days before he leaves office--to either accept or reject the entire list. He could 
~ THE SENIOR CLASS AND THE ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 
not change the list. If Carlucci approves the list, Congress would have until mid­
I 
is sponsoring April to overturn the proposal, but it could only do that by ap­proving a resolution which could then be vetoed by the in­
coming president. No base closures would begin 


Sr. Trip to the Bahamas send-off 
before 1990. 
with 
Nunn and Sen. John Warner, R-Va., ranking Republican on the Armed Services panel, said 
The Famous Vacationers 
they have talked with commis­
(Chicago Reggae Band) sion members and no list of bases to be closed has yet been prepared. 
But if some of Virginia's numerous bases are on the list, 
Thursday, Oct. 13 from 9pm -2am at ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB Warner said, "I'm willing to take the heat, if it becomes a matter of necessity, in my own state in order to cut waste from the national defense." 


WEAR your shades and get your leis! 
"If we're going to do some­thing about balancing the


~ (All ARE WELCOME TO JOIN THE FESTIVITIES!) 
budget, the way to do it is to eliminate unnecessary spend­ing and bases," said Sen. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ William Roth, R-Del. 
---~~ ~ -~~ 
~ -----~-----­
Weekend Edition, October 13-15, 1988
The Observer
page 10 

' ••• -GOOD SEATS AVAILABLE NOW I I I  


Weekend Edition, October 13-15, 1988 
Commercial plane nears Air Force One 
-----------------The Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday Michael Begore, 6, of Marengo, Ill. gives his who weighs nearly 200 pounds less than his thrqugh Observer advertising. 260-pound pumpkin a pat during the World pumpkin, did not win first prize. A 354-pound Pumpkin Weigh-off Monday in Elk Grove. Begore, behemoth from Kenosha, Wi. took the crown. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A commuter plane and Air Force One may have flown too close to one an­other yesterday while Presi­dent Reagan was traveling from Philadelphia to Newark, N.J. 
But, the president was in no danger, officials said. 
The two planes came no closer than two miles horizon­tally and 500 feet vertically, ac­cording to a preliminary report from the Federal Aviation Ad­ministration. 
"The president was not in danger at any point," said White House spokesman Mark Weinberg. Spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the president was not aware of the incident until later. 
FAA spokesman Bob Buck­horn said the incident occurred at 2:35p.m. EDT, northwest of Trenton, N.J. 





i""'.
·:-~--wP-'-······~·-#''"~ 
/ . 

Some works ofart weren't meant to be kept inside. Like 
these three-dimensional, cotton sweaters from the land of 
llamas. Each is handcrafted, with scenes that'll pop right 
out at you. Now they're on sale so you can afford to show 
your fine taste in art. And see Peru at its most colorful. 


InS, M, and L. Regularly $64.99.0n sale this week$49.88. APlacelbDiscover. ~t:Zirc~r!i'AJAIJ Mishawaka: 5712 Grape Ad. Ph. 272-0132 • 100 Center. Ph. 259-0880.
• r.utiriJlillinMSitlll'S. Shop Mon.-Sat. 10-9, Sun. 12-6 

"We're investigating a possi­ble operational error with a Bar Harbor Airlines aircraft," Buckhorn said. "We are not talking about a near miss. Pre­liminary reports indicate there may have been an operational error." 
Buckhorn said the error in­volved a "separation violation. In that particular area the separation should have been three miles and it was allowed to close to two miles." 
Weinberg said Air Force One pilot Col. Robert Ruddick felt that the president was not en­dangered, nor were any pas­
sengers. 

Bar Harbor Airlines spokes­man Steve Mason said Con­tinental Express flight 3494, an ATR-42 aircraft, was en route from Baltimore to Newark with 33 passengers and three crew­members aboard when the in­cident occurred. 
AP Photo 

One killed, 124 injured in Rio de Janeiro blaze 
Associated Press 
RIO de JANEIRO, brazil ­Workers trapped in a 22-story building hung out of windows and shouted to be rescued from flames and thick smoke Wed­nesday in a fire that officials said killed one person and in­jured 124 others. 
It took two hours to put out the blaze at the government­run Banco de Brasil building, located in the busiest intersec­tion of downtown Rio. 

THE FIFTH THIRD BANK 
is one of the Midwest's most dynamic
and growth-oriented financial 
institutions. 

Our bank associate program provides the opportunity to become a skilled professional through departmental rotations, special projects and training that allows you to become familiar with our customers, operations and 
procedures. 

We are seeking candidates who will be receiving their bachelor's degree in May, 1989, preferably with a business emphasis. The successful candidate will have career interests in a sales-oriented position, demonstrated initiative, and have a record .of successful achievements. 
If you are searching for a professionalmanagement development program and desire to become a member of our organization, arrange to interview with us at Notre Dame November 1, 1988 and Saint Mary's November 2, 
Firefighters broke through walls of adjacent buildings to pull people to safety. Hundreds of office workers fled in panic. 
The fire was confined to the bottom three floors of the bank building, but enormous amounts of heavy smoke bil­lowed from every floor, casting a haze for blocks over the con­gested business district. 
The cause of the fire was un­determined. 


page 12 The Observer Weekend Edition, October 13-15, 1988 
Fundamentalists demonstrate 
Islamic fundamentalists walk down a street in downtown Algiers, Tuesday, during a demonstration in the Algerian capital, as unrest and anti-austerity riots continued this week. 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer )Mt advertising. JUt. 
~ Call 239-6900 0 
SUCCESS WITII MUTUAL OF OMAIIA 
Now that you've Invested three or four years and considerable money In your college education, you're entitled to ask pointedquestions about career payoffs. 
At Mutual of Omaha, we welcome them because we've got good answers. When you work for Mutual of Omaha, there are plenty of opportunities to make good money. You can also earn bonuses and some first-class trips. 
Good educations are put to good use. Matching our Income Protection products and services to customer needs provides plenty ofIntellectual challenge. We need bright people In management too. 
We don't leave your career satisfaction and financial rewards to chance. We have a proven sales system and our training program Is among the best In the Industry. 
It's not too early to check us out. Tell us about yourself In a letter 
to: 
General Sales Manager 
P. 0. Box 2858 
South Bend, IN 46680 

SZE-CHAUN • CHINESE • VIETNAMESE AND AMERICAN DISHES 
"ENJOY A UNIQUE EXPERIENCE IN ORIENTAL DINING" 
• 
PRIVATE DINING BOOTHS ·FRESH INGREDIENTS 

• 
NO MASS PRODUCTION 

• 
HEALTHY FAMILY STYLE DINING 

• 
VEGETARIAN MENU 


6329 University Commons HOURS: Mon Thurs 11 AM-9 (Across From University Park Mall) Friday 11 AM 10 PM South Bend, IN 46635 Saturday 12 Noon-10 PM 
r,r l~eservations & Carry-Out Call: 

272-6702 




Ex-firefighter accused of arson 
Associated Press police searched his home and ous or confirmed arson fires car. since a May 5 grass fire. A barn 
JEFFERSON, n.h. In an interview two days was the next target, then empty Authorities said Wednesday a later, Lalumiere told the Dem­homes and later occupied ones. former volunteer firefighter is ocrat: "All I tried to do was Most of the fires were set late suspected of setting 16 suspici­save my brother's house and at night, many at the back of ous blazes that have terrified this is the thanks I get." buildings. this town since May, prompting The weekly Coos County residents to sleep in shifts and Democrat reported Wednesday No one has been killed or form night patrols. that LaLumiere's brother, Mi­seriously hurt, although some 
Plainclothes police officers chael, said Lance Lalumiere people barely escaped and lost hustled Lance Lalumiere, 23, had been taken Tuesday to the their homes. into the police station in neigh­Twin Mountain police barracks boring Lancaster, where he in neighboring Carroll. As the toll of scorched struc­was arraigned on one felony ar­"He is upset," the brother tures mounted, many families son charge stemming from a told the paper. "There's a def­began sleeping in shifts and fire at his brother's cabin. Bail inite mental strain; there's no abandoned vacation plans. 
was set at $50,000. doubt about that.'' Some residents began night 
State Safety Commissioner Jefferson, a quiet hamlet of patrols. Police feared vigilante Richard Flynn said the state 850 people, has had 21 suspici-violence. 
will seek indictments against ..----------------------• Lalumiere, charging him with 




H A p p y 
setting 15 other fires. 
Five of the 21 suspicious fires apparently were set by others, said state Police Lt. Gary Sloper, who declined to give 
details, including how many 
.h oc,.
suspects there are and whether L.O. E 
any of the suspects acted in 

concert. GEORGEANNE 11
The fire for which Lalumiere was charged occurred Aug. 23 
at his brother's cabin. It was 

ANNIVERSARY
the 19th suspicious blaze to break out. Lance Lalumiere reported 
the fire and was trying to ex-


FRED'
tinguish it when firefighters ar-• 
rived. He was questioned for

eight hours afterward and ..______________________• 
Teaching math or science as Peace Corps Volunteer, you will a Peace Corps Volunteer will handle responsibilities and meet develop your professional skills in challenges far greater than the classroom and beyond. You those that might be offered in a might teach basic math to rural starting position in the United students in Belize ... and after States. When you return, your school set up a vegetable gar­Peace Corps experience may den to improve nutrition. Or be open new doors to you. Educa­assigned as a physics teacher tional institutions, international in Lesotho. In addition, help firms and government agencies local women market handicrafts value someone with your to earn school fees. As a experience. 
25 ~ars of PEACE CORPS The toughest job you'll ever love. 
Film Seminar Wed. Oct 26 at 7 p.m. in the Center For Social Concerns Interviews: Thurs & Fri Nov 3rd & 4th Career & Placement Office 
Viewpoint

Weekend Edition, October 13-15, 1988 
page 13 

P.O. Box Q 

Network President responds to charges Dear Editor: 
I found Rev. Oliver Williams' Oct. 7 Viewpoint column "Shell Article Dis­regards Facts" disturbing. While Rev. Williams consistently characterizes my Oct. 5 article on the Pagan-Shell initiative as a collection of "rumors,... half-truths, innuendo and ad hominem arguments," he fails to mention that all of the information presented in my article is quoted directly from a series of reports issued by the Interfaith Cen­ter on Corporate Responsibility. Rev. Williams attempts to refute the credibility of my article without once offering any evidence as to why the ICCR report should be considered in­valid. Is simply ignoring the sources of my argument a reflection of the "intel­lectual competence" which is the "coin of the realm" here at Notre Dame? 
Even more disturbing are Rev. Wil­liams' statements concerning a discus­sion he had about an institute for the study of post apartheid South Africa with James Armstrong. After stating that "The University of Notre Dame is not now considering such an institute and has never considered any such project," Rev. Williams goes on to state that "on a number of occasions, et­hicists have approached me with a sug­gestion for a center to study the transi­tion to a black-controlled South Mrica. One strong advocate is James Armstrong ..." If I am not mistaken, this statement implies that Rev. Wil­liams has had previous communica­tions about such an institute. 
n co r, ICCR Executive Director Timothy Smith lists James Armstrong as the in­dividual ''assigned responsibility for (the Pagan-Shell) 'religious strategy.' " The report continues: " (Armstrong) argued persuasively within Pagan and to Shell that the religious community could be a key actor in any Shell cam­paign, that the churches' positions needed to be carefully monitored, and that their joining the boycott could create a 'critical mass' against Shell's South Mrican presence.'' The report then outlines several actions taken by Armstrong which are consistent with the Neptune Strategy. Thus, Rev. Wil­liams in his own words presents evidence that an institute reflecting the Pagan-Shell initiative had indeed been discussed with at least one Notre Dame official --Rev. Oliver Williams. 
Finally, I would like to respond to the charge of intellectual incompetence leveled against me in the final para­graph of Rev. Williams' article. On Oct. 5, The Observer printed my article which contained extensive quotes from a very reliable source --the ICCR. In the past, nineteen Catholic orders have divested from certain corporations on the basis of reports issued by the ICCR. I assume Williams knew this and that is why he chose not to address my source directly, though he has pre­sented me with his original manuscript, which separated certain quotes from my article into blocks --signifying that they were taken from another source. 
Instead, he strongly suggests that my article is a collection of rumors, seemingly the product of my imagina­tion. This approach does not reflect my conception of "intellectual com-


Doonesbu 
51R, lf/!7H '10UR 
Me,ac
&VII-TWIN 015­
(]}()RS/3..1
QUAUFIW fRIJM 
I'M THe
R1JNNIN6, {J)HO'U.TAK£ OV!51< :~ ORIGINAL­CANOIOAT&, 
ReM£3MB8R~ 
I 
\1/ 
~ ~ 
..... ,\' 
UP 7D IT? MISS, 
IHAV&ON80F 
7HAT'5 GR£/fT. 7H8LON6&5T 
ANY 5/6NIFI­R&SUMi51N 
CAIVT Aeeaf1­PUeJx Uffll 
Pt.!SHME3NT5~ 
I 
I 
pe ence. e1 er, ev. 1ams, oes linking your name and your views with leaders such as Archbishop Desmond Tutu and Rev. Beyers Naude --leaders who vehemently oppose the construc­tive engagement plan outlined in your book. I am not now, nor have I ever been, one to engage in ad hominem arguments--a point that is clear upon consideration of the validity of my sources, a validity that embraces the spirit of "intellectual competence" which all hope to preserve at this uni­versity. 
John-Paul Checkett President Notre Dame Anti-Apartheid Network Oct. 11, 1988 


Alumni deserve students' respect
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to a View­
point column which appeared in an 
early September issue of The Observer. 
I realize that this letter comes a little 
belatedly, but since the column con­
cerned the behavior of alumni at home 
football games, and four home games 
remain on this year's schedule, I 
wished to give a student's response to 
the article's distasteful implications. 
The article was directed specifically against a small group of alumni, the "rotten apples" who appare~tly spoil the campus for the rest of us. These rotten apples flaunt the alcohol policy, ·disrupt the study atmosphere of the li­brary, and make general nuisances of themselves about campus. The article concluded that alumni should think of themselves as guests, and should be­have accordingly upon visits to our 
campus. 
This attitude towards the large body 
of Notre Dame alumni is offensive, ob­
noxious, and sorely deserving of 
reproach. When a student chooses to 
enroll at Notre Dame, he is doing more 
than simply selecting a convenient lo­
cation at which to complete his studies. 
He is choosing to enter himself into a 
community rich in academic, spiritual 
and athletic tradition and excellence. 
This community is comprised not ex­
clusively of students, but of faculty, ad­
ministrators, students and yes, alumni. 
I will never think of myself as a guest 
in my own community, be it two weeks 
or 20 years from my graduation, and I 
would hope that no alumni think of 
themselves as guests of their alma 
mater. 
As for the fact that alumni disregard 
Garry Trudeau 
W£3/..L, NOT 
Y&T, 8UT 
I'M 601Nt3 
7V887H& aJIJtATION 
PR£5/otNT. 
I 

t e po ICies w 1c govern s u ents, It 
is important to keep in mind that while 
the alumni are members (the largest 
group, in fact) of our community, they are not students, and do not deserve to be treated as such. Next football weekend, be mindful of the fact that we are students at this University for four years, we are alumni for the rest of our lives, and treat the alumni with the respect they deserve. 
James M. Lang 
Grace Hall 
Oct. 5, 1988 


United Way Quarter Mile October 14 
Dear Editor: 
The local United Way chapter sup­ports more than forty agencies of com­munity service. Big BrotherS/Big Sisters, the Boys Club, Catholic Social Services, the Red Cross, and the Urban League, to name a few, all derive sup­port from the proceeds that are generated in the yearly fund-raising campaign. These agencies provide a valuable and often necessary service to those in the South Bend community who are less fortunate. 
As members of a Christian commu­
nity dedicated to service to others, and 
also as members of the South Bend 
community, it is only natural that Notre 
Dame should become involved in the 
United Way campaign. In the past the 
major focus of the campus fund-raising 
drive has been through dorm represen­
tatives who go from door-to-door in 
their individual halls asking for dona­
tions. This will take place in the next 
few weeks. However, this year we are 
going one step further with a special 
fund-raising event. 
From 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. on Friday, Oct. 14, anyone walking by South Quad will notice a mile of tape on the quad outside the Bookstore. On your way to the Dining Hall, on your way to class, on your way to the Rock, stop by and stick a quarter up on our mile of tape. You don't have to run, or swim, or bike. It's probably the easiest way to give. 
We thank you for your support and generosity in advance and look forward to seeing you on Friday. 
Michelle LaRose Kerstin White Hall Presidents' Council Co-chairmen Oct. 11, 1988 


Campus Quote 
"My biggest thrill occurs each home game when the team runs through the tunnel onto the field, and I can hear the band playing the fight song and the Notre Dame fans cheering. To me, that's what Notre Dame 
football is all about and excitement."  -tradition  
Marv Spence Class 1988  

Ihe Observer Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Oxrider
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager, ................ Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager ................ Unda Goldschmidt 
The Obser.er is the independent newspaper published by the students of tlole University of 
News Editor ................................... Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shilts 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mai'X Ridgeway 
the administration ol either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controlfer .......................................... Todd Hardiman 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager ........................ Marga Bruns 
Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 
Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele 

is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 

campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 


Accent 

page 14 Weekend Edition, October 13-15, 1988 
Hit the box and rail before hitting the road 
solution to a trapped worker 
afraid of dying in a state of 
mortal sin. Perhaps priests 
still endanger themselves to 
deliver the sacraments; but 
when they do, it's hushed up, 
as though they were guilty of 
a lapse of good taste which 
encourages superstition. 
Contemporary Catholics, drunk on the new sense of freedom that comes from an unrestrained reliance on the mercy of God, dull their con­sciences with an indifference toward sin: they are warmed by the hope that their in­fidelities and betrayals are regarded by the Father as endearing eccentricities, at which the Father winks out of love for the Son Who died to save sinners. It seems quite modern to regard God as the Senior Member of the club Who murmurs "Boys will be boys," when He hears of highjinks that violate the commandments. 
As campus ministers, many of us tend to love, trust, and admire Notre Dame students so much for their obvious good manners, generosity, amiability, sensitivity, intelli­gence, and all-around good looks that we fail to notice when they've lost touch with God. This is not because they've become bad or wicked, but because they are so full of exuberance at being young, beautiful, and lust, as well as so charming that they blind themselves to the direc­tion in which their excesses are taking them. What if some of the students who are setting off for home with breakneck speed have bad consciences? If some of them don't have bad consciences, maybe they should have if 
Calvin and Hobbes 

they've dealt with their temptation by giving into them until they have a track record in shame that a liber­tine could be proud of. 
We treat all these outward signs of American students being themselves in a care­free way as though they were proofs of an inner grace, which is the seed of everlast­ing life. We're so pleased with the seed of everlasting life. We're so pleased with the sight of good-hearted youngsters keeping busy in the service of the poor, the neglected, the forgotten and the helpless that we forget to warn them that the devil, like a roaring lion, is on the prowl, seeking the champions he can easily devour. 
As campus minister, we can approve everything about the golden lads and girls whom we're trying to help mature as Christians, except their consciences. The con­science is a private place that offers no admittance to out­siders, except maybe God, and He's not outsider. What else is the conscience but His still, small voice? 
I didn't invent the admoni­tions to vigilance, and I have not intention of exaggerating the warnings which lie side by side in the Gospels with the premises of unconditional love; but no campus minister can promise students that they don't have a reckoning to make with the Giver of all good gifts. I was a student myself when I was struck by the words: "What does it profit a man if, in gaining in the world, he loses his soul?" For if there is a final rejec­tion, it will be because I have first rejected Him when, with the self-insight that comes at the judgement, I see myself as a hypocrite who chose to live untrammeled by His grace, which would have kept me. honest. 
Even then, I will not have lost Him forever if His love is able to defeat my despair. If not, as Mencken said: "One of the crying needs of the time if for a suitable burial service for the admittedly damned," which preachers who are castaways need for themselves. What should I think of myself as a campus minister if I told Christians, dead in their sins: "You're a-okay with the Lord."? 
Break begins tomorrow. Why not hit the box and hit the rail before you hit the road home ... and before the road for home can hit you back, God forbid! Even if you think I'm reviving Catholic folklore as I echo the exhorta­tions of priests who helped Notre Dame stay Catholic in the recent dark ages, that's my advice to you as a modern campus minister. 
I don't think God is waiting to catch you in sin so that He can zap you to hell. However, He's offering you His grace so that you can straighten out your life, so that you can have peace of mind as long as you live, and receive His praise at the end. That's the only kind of folk religion I have to offer you, and it's an older tradition at Notre Dame than football or the stadium. Whether you accept it or not, before you set out for home, why don't you ask the folks to buy you a new set of tires? 
Bill Watterson 
Y[(CNHII.' T\.1ERE \':> NOT\\ING 'MORSE T\1t>N 1-1 S\CK R<X:lM· 
~f>...lE! FACE TJ.IAT Wf\'{ I 

T 
imes have changed, haven't they? I'm a campus minister, and you're a senior heading off into the sunset as the driver of a jalopy with a set of bad tires that you're hoping will last for a thousand-mile trip, home and back. Forty years ago, the campus minister would be on your back like Karl Malden, warning you how your holiday could be spoiled; but the priest's ad-Vatican II agrees that it's a misuse of the Eucharist to treat it like magic. So, with a smile and a handshake, we priests, who laugh at the old hocus-pocus, say goodbye to a student who climbs behind the wheel of a piece of junk. Halfway home, he has a head-on collision with another car, and is instantly killed. When the priest gets the bad news, he says a prayer for the student's soul; and if the 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 

vice would be: "Hit .the and the rail before hitting the road." Translation: "Make a good confession and receive the Eucharist before starting your trip." 
That old-fashioned priest was a folk Catholic, as you can tell from his jargon. He offered the sacraments as though they were more useful than condoms; as though your soul could be in danger instead of your health. 
Whatever the up-to-date minister wishes on you, it's not apt to be the sacraments. "The sacrament of Recon­ciliation is for the turning point in your life or in your year, whichever comes first," he may say, "and the Euc­harist shouldn't be received as though the communion bread and wine have the ef­ficacy of a St. Christopher's medal." Does this mean he thinks more or less of the Eucharist than the old-time priests did? 
Any Catholic who has worn out a set of the documents of God the victim was in a state of grace when he died. 
What in the devil does any of us know about the state of grace? When Joan of Arc was asked by her judges: "Are you in a state of grace?" She answered: "If I am in a state of grace, I pray God will keep me there; if I'm not, I pray that He'll put me there." Her answer is the only answer, perhaps, that you can give if you're asked: "Are you in a state of grace?" For God alone knows the truth about the state of your soul. If you're not in a state of grace, you could be in a state of mortal sin; but that's too dis­mal to talk about, unless you want to give yourself nightmares. Is there a hell? Does God send anyone there? If not, what do you mean by mortal sin? 
Catholics my age were raised on the fear of mortal sin. Priests of my generation would crawl down a danger­ous mineshaft, to offer ab-


Nothing but 'Nunsense' 
Special to The Observer 
T 
he hilarious nonsense of "Nunsense" is coming to the Morris Civic Auditorium in South Bend on Oct. 21 and 22 at 8 p.m. This rollicking winner of four 1986 Outer Critics' Circle Awards includ­ing Best Off-Broadway Musi­cal, stars Broadway, television and film actresslcomedienne, Dody Goodman. 
This long-running, off­Broadway musical hit is the story of the Little Sisters of Hoboken (affectionately known as "The Little Hobos") who have a very serious prob­lem. Their well-intentioned convent chef, Sister Julia, Child of God, accidentally poisons 52 members of the order who contract botulism after sampling her vis­chysoise. 
Forty-eight Sisters have been properly buried, but there are no funds to bury the rest because Mother Superior spent the money to buy a VCR for the convent. The deceased Sisters have been stored in the deep-freeze until the funds can be raised, and the city health inspector is, unfortunately, beginning to get nosy. 
The five remaining Sisters, spared only because they had gone to another parish to play Bingo and thus missed the fatal dinner, decide to stage a benefit to raise the money needed. The variety show, includes Sister Mary Leo's, "Dying Nun Ballet," and songs such as, "We've got to clean out the freezer." 
Dan Goggin, creator and director of "Nunsense," is a former seminarian and has great regard for his Catholic roots. The show is non-con­troversial, and has delighted nuns and priests as well as audiences of all beliefs. 
Tickets· for "Nunsense" may be purchased at the LaFortune Center information desk or by contacting the Broadway Theatre League of South Bend at 234-4044. 


I'M GOING BU:.K TO BED,I T\.llNI< 1\-\E WORSI OF 
BUT GIIJE ME f\ CAlL IF TRi \0 GET ~\: SI..EE.P. 
111\S IS 0\JER, SJ J\lST 
'IOIJ FEEL SIC\( t>.GP..IN, OK ? t-IOW GET '3:l!IIE RE.S\. 

~------~~~----~~----~---------------------------------.~-.--~--~--~--,.~--------------------------~------~~----~----~­
The Observer Weekend Edition, October 13-15, 1988 


at 


Time 1 :30 p.m. COT 
TV & Radio 
CBS national television (Brent Musburger, Pat Haden) Mutual Radio Network (Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna) 
Game is sold out 
· Tickets 
(capacity 59,075) 
Miami 1st
AP Rankings 
Notre Dame 4th 
Notre Dame leads, 13-6-1
Series 
First game in 1955 
November 28, 1987
Last Game 
Miami 24, Notre Dame 0 

Move over, Musburger 
NO's Green sets sights on sports broadcasting 

tsburgh In last weekend's 30-20 Irish vic­tory. 
By THERESA KELLY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Behind the quarterback in the Notre Dame backfield, Mark Green's actions speak louder than words, but one day Green's words are going to have to stand alone. 
The senior leader in the talented Irish backfield is interested in getting behind a microphone instead of a quarterback one day, and hopes to make a career out of broadcasting when his football career ends. 
"I'm interested in going into broad­casting," Green says. "Maybe some news and sports, not necessarily com­mentating, but broadcasting in gen­eral. I talk about it all the time to the (broadcasters) who come around here. 
"Every time one of the guys (broadcasters) comes around, they give me a hard time about it. They say 'Hey what about your day show, no, no, your night show, no, I think we'll have a midday show for you.' They give me a bunch of trouble, but that's OK. I really want to give it a shot." 
Green's interest in public speaking began his junior year at Riverside Poly High School in Riverside, Calif., where he was commissioner of publicity. His tasks included leading the entire school in the Pledge of Allegiance and reading the daily announcements. 
"One day, I was leading the Pledge, but I was reading over the announce­ments," Green said, "but saying the Pledge at the same time. It's second nature, you know, you don't think about the Pledge of Allegiance. But all of a sudden I forgot the words. I just blanked out. I had no idea where I was. It was one of the more embarrassing moments of my life. 

"Of course, everyone finished and just sat down, but then I remembered the words, and I said, 'With liberty and justice for all,' and everyone just looked up at the P.A. system and prob­ably wondered where I was that mor­ning." 
No one is wondering where Mark Green is now. He's been in the Notre Dame backfield for three seasons after coming to Notre Dame as a flanker, and he is one of three captains of the 1988 Irish squad, along with tackle Andy Heck and linebacker Ned Bolcar. 
Green's upbeat personality is a per­fect leadership trait for the team. 
"I think it has to do with the attitude," Green says. "When I come into the lock­erroom I'm always smiling. I'm a bubbly kind of person. I go out with a good attitude every day. I don't com­plain about the things we have to do at practice, work hard all the time and do what I have to do. People respect me and I give respect back, and that is what counts. 
"I guess you can really tell if a person is doing the right thing if they don't get yelled at. I don't get yelled at that much, so I've got to be doing something right." 
see GREEN, page 7 


Notre Dame student body hyped up to 'Hate Miami' 
By PETE GEGEN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame athletic de­partment, accused last year of being one big hype machine as Tim Brown won the Heisman Trophy, may have met its match this weekend. 
Meet the Miami haters. 

"I personally hate Miami," says John Smith, sporting an "Unfinished Business-­Catholics vs. Convicts" t-shirt. "I think the players are a bunch of thugs." 
Moderate to extreme forms of this viewpoint are shared by a majority of the Notre Dame student body, which blames Miami and Jimmy Johnson in particular for "running up the score on us" in the last two meetings. Apparently those blowouts left deep emotional scars in Irish fans, who have whipped up such a frenzy nationwide that it even has the athletic department worried. 
"I understand Miami coach Jimmy Johnson has been the recipient of several phone calls and letters from Notre Dame students," wrote Irish coach Lou Holtz in a letter to students in the Oct. 6 issue of The Ob­server. "It seems to me that if we want to display our intelli­gence, we ought to show a great deal of respect to Miami." 
Holtz also mentioned in a press conference this week that he doesn't believe the student body really hates Miami. But he also has said that he has not seen the students wearing those Hate Miami t-shirts, printed with messages ranging from "Even God Hates Miami" to "Canes Blow." 
As students will attest, there is more to the shirts than their novelty. 
"These people seriously hate Miami," says one t-shirt ven­dor, describing the type of people buying his "Catholics vs. Convicts" t-shirt. "It's really crazy. Even alumni clubs want them--one club has asked us for between 50-100 t­shirts." 
The t-shirts are big business for vendors, and a big symbol of the hype for the national media to concentrate on. The athletic department is hoping that, other than the t-shirts, the media will not have any Hate Miami incidents to write about. The students, it appears, are not concerned about how the media will portray the hype. 

To their credit, however, Notre Dame students appear to be concerned about the issue of class. 
"We've got to stay in the bounds of class," says fresh­man Nick Campanella. "We're on the borderline. I mean, how much more not in taste can you be than the t-shirts referring to Jimmy Johnson's anatomy?" 
"I think there's room for more," responds sophomore Jeff Racho, "but we're going to be on the borderline during the game." 
As of Wednesday, CBS had no definite plans for covering the Hate Miami hype, though the network does plan to con­
centrate on the root of it all. 
"During the game the an­nouncers will make references to the blowouts, accompanied by footage," says Susan Kerr, Associate Director of Sports In­formation for CBS. 
The most interesting result of this hype will be the students' behavior at the game. 
"I think the people are smart enough to just have a good time," says sophomore Rob Thompson. 

--~--~~-----~~--~------............. ---------------~----~ 
paae 2 Irish Extra: The Game Weekend Edition, October 13-15. 1988 
By BRIAN O'GARA off a feat that they've accom­cern," said Johnson. "He is Sports Writer plished five times in the last 17 playing more aggressively this 
years--knocking off number year and really attacks the cor­
Something has to give. one. The last time was in 1982 ners well on the option. He may 
There will be an awful lot at in a 31-16 upset of Pittsburgh. be the key." stake Saturday afternoon with "This is what Notre Dame is Senior tailback Mark Green the much-anticipated arrival of all about," said Holtz as he (367 yards on 76 carries) and a team of Hurricanes to Notre closed his weekly press confer­sophomore Tony Brooks (58 Dame Stadium--streaks, a No. ence on Tuesday. "Notre Dame carries for 384 yards) have 1 ranking and a whole lot of has a history of beating the No. paced the Irish running attack pride. 1 teams in all sports. It has a along with Rice. 
Top-ranked and defending history of doing the impossible, The focQs of much attention national champion Miami (4-0) a history of coming up with an in the preseason and early and fourth-ranked Notre Dame unexpected perfromance by games, the passing game has (5-0) will meet in a super­people you never dreamed of. picked up in recent weeks as hyped, nationally-televised I think that is what we'll need, Rice develops more confi­contest (CBS) with a scheduled but I think history is on our dence. Flanker Ricky Watters kickoff of 1:30 p.m. side." leads all receivers with six 
The Hurricanes enter the Miami has beaten the na­catches for 63 yards while matchup riding the wave of a tion's top-ranked team six freshman tight end Derek 36-game regular-season win times in this decade, including Brown has pulled down two streak, the longest such streak each of the last three seasons touchdown passes. Rice also since Oklahoma won 45 (28-16 over Oklahoma in 1986, has been effective finding his straight in the 1950s. That 20-14 over the Sooners in the running backs on short passes, Sooner streak ended in 1957 at 1988 Orange Bowl and 31-0 over which could come in handy the hands of Notre Dame. Florida State in the 1988 against the quick-blitzing Hur­Miami has also won 20 consecu­season-opener for both teams. ricane defense. tive away games. The Irish Defensively, the Hurricanes carry their own streak into the Miami offense have been just as dominating matchup, winning their last vs. as they have been on offense. eight games in Notre Dame Notre Dame defense Miami opponents are averag­Stadium. ing just over eight points and 
Notre Dame is coming off a The Hurricanes boast an ex­. 240 total yards a game. Miami 30-20 win at Pittsburgh while plosive passing game behind has forced 13 turnovers in four Miami had an off week to the arm of junior quarterback games, including seven inter­prepare for the game, after Steve Walsh, who masterfully ceptions. crushing Missouri two weeks directed the Hurricanes back "The thing that makes ago by a 55-0 score. to score two touchdowns late in Miami awfully good on offense 
"You like an off week when the fourth quarter to hold off is they are a great defensive people are hurt," said Hur­Michigan 31-30. Walsh has team," said Holtz. ricane head coach Jimmy thrown for 1,037 yards and 10 The matchup also will fea­Johnson. "But we're healthy. touchdowns and Miami is 1(H) ture a war in the trenches as Sometimes you may be less with Walsh as the starting Miami has not given up a rush­sharp after a layoff than quarterback. ing touchdown in six games before. When you're on a roll "Offensively, they've really dating back to last season. like this, you'd just as soon play refined their pro-style attack," Middle linebacker Bernard the next week rather than said Holtz, "and Walsh is as Clark has led the Hurricane waiting. But we've had good good as anyone you'll find run­defense this year, punishing practices this week." ning it. He never gets sacked Blades and Brett Perriman, all The secondary will likely runners and leading the team 
And as much as both coaches and he's got great receivers drafted in the first two rounds face more artillery from Walsh in tackles with 51. deny it, there is the lingering and they've just got so much of the 1988 NFL draft, have than it has seen from any other Miami also boasts a swarm­memory of recent Hurricane confidence in him. He's been been replaced by the trio of quarterback this season and ing pass rush, sacking the quar­runaways, including last there before in games like this, Dale Dawkins, Randal Hill and will need to rise to the task, led terback 17 times this season, 15 year's 24-0 whitewash of the and we haven't." Andre Brown, which is proving by safeties George Streeter and in its last three games. All­Irish and a 58-7 thrashing in The Miami offense averages itself equally competant. Pat Terrell, with Stan Smagala America candidate Bill Haw­1985. Notre Dame fans have not 451 yards a game, more than The Irish are strongest at the and Todd Lyght at the corners. kins, a defensive end, and de­forgotten. 300 of those yards via the air. linebacker slot, where Ned Bol­Walk-on freshman ldcker fensive tackle Russell 
But the numbers, too, cannot But its productivity has at car, Mike Stonebreaker and Carlos Huerta is 7-of-10 for the Maryland are tied with three be forgotten. Under Johnson, times been hampered by turn­Wes Pritchett possess hard­season, including the game­sacks each. who came to the helm on June overs. The 'Canes have hitting experience and know­winner against Michigan. "We have rushed passers 5, 1984, Miami is 45-8 and has fumbled the ball 14 times, how. The defensive line is very well this year," said played for the national cham­losing 10, and have been vic­young, with George Williams, Notre Dame offense Johnson, "but our scheme of pionship three of the last four tims of four interceptions. Jeff Aim and Chris Zorich all vs. defense is set up for that. We years. Walsh's passing efficiency is seeing their first career start Miami defense spend a great amount of time 
"This is great to have this complemented by its variety-­in the opener against Michigan. on that, but you sacrifice things type of game," said Notre the junior Reisman trophy can­Flash Gordon and FrankStarns The Irish have recently sometimes when you do that. Dame head coach Lou Holtz, didate has averaged passing to have been steady on the outside added an effective passing It makes you vulnerable to a "for our student body, for our more than six recievers a and will need to join the line in threat to an already powerful scrambling quarterback and fans, players and for us. It is a game. Five Hurricanes have putting pressure on Walsh-­running game. play-action passes." big football game, but I think caught 10 or more passes on the otherwise it could be a long af­The Irish average 287 yards Punter Tim Kalal averages we have to keep in mind that season. Running back ternoon. rushing per outing. Junior only 37 yards a kick, but the this is a football game--we're Cleveland Gary, who leads the "We competed awfully well quarterback Tony Rice has longest punt return on Miami not talking about World War II team in rushing with 189 yards against Pittsburgh," said rushed for nearly eight yards this season is eight yards. here. It's a game that you'll re­on 38 rushes, also leads all Holtz, "but we did not get the a carry, primarily on option Ricky Watters, third in the na­member all you're life, but still receivers with 19 receptions for things done that we need to do keepers, en route to 353 yards tion in punt returns with 19 it's just a simple old football 270 yards. on defense, and that can be and five touchdowns. yards per attempt and two game." Last year's Miami receiving deadly against a team like "Without question Tony Rice touchdowns, will try to change 
Tbe lrilb .. trJilll to pull ~ af Nid'M' Irvin, BriaD lliami'l." gives us a great deal of con-that. 


Senior fullback Cleveland Gary, left, 19 and In rushing with 189 yards on 38 Middle linebacker Bernard Clark, right, tackles like this one against Oklahoma leads the Hurricanes In receptions with carries. won the Orange Bowl MVP award with quarterback Charles Thompson. 
Irish Extra

Weekend Edition, October 13-15, 1988 gaae 3 

Mleml quarterbllck Steve W•lah led the Hurricanes to the national championship last year, and this year has his sights set Tile OllelrwrI Fill P'IIIIID on •nother Mtlonlll title In addHion to the Helsman Trophy. 

Next QB up: Steve Walsh 
Junior follows rich Miami QB tradition 
By MARTY STRASEN Sports Editor 
Jim Kelly, Bernie Kosar, Vinny Tes­taverde...and Steve Walsh. 
The fourth name on the above list of recent Miami quarterback greats could hardly have been expected to earn the distinction of the first three when he headed south from St. Paul, Minn., in 1985. In fact, the only schools that showed much interest in Walsh out of high school were Miami, Louisville and Iowa State. 
But the school that produced the three current NFL stars who preceded Walsh obviously knew something about the junior who led the Hurricanes to the national championship last year and is gunning for the Reisman Trophy this season. 
"I wasn't looking to throw for 4,000 yards and set all kinds of records like the guys before me," said Walsh in a telephone interview Tuesday. "The only thing I wanted to do that they did was win football games." 
Walsh wasted little time in achieving that goal, as he won his opening game last year against Florida on national television. Neither Kosar nor Tes­taverde managed to win his debut, each losing to the former arch-rival Gators, who recently dropped Miami from their schedule. 
Walsh threw the Hurricanes to a 12-0 record last season, including a 20-14 vic­tory over Oklahoma in the Orange Bowl for the national championship, and already has Miami off to a 4-0 start and the No. 1 ranking this year. 
"Steve Walsh may be the best college quarterback Miami has ever had," Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz said. 

"He may not have the strongest arm and he may not have the best statistics of the ones who played there before him, but he does what needs to be done to win. He's exceptionally football smart. 
"They've really refined their pro­style attack, and Walsh is as good as anyone you'll find running it," Holtz continued. "He never gets sacked, he's got great receivers and they've got so much confidence in him. You just can't stop Miami's passing game." 
Even the loss of the top three receivers from last year's Miami squad did not stop Walsh and his aerial attack. Michael Irvin, Brett Perriman and Brian Blades all were drafted within the first two rounds of last year's NFL draft. 
"It was sort of a tough adjustment, but these guys haven't been doing any worse than the other guys," said Walsh, who hooks up with an average of six different Hurricanes each game. The three receivers replacing last year's trio, as a group, have two more recep­tions than Irvin, Perriman and Blades had at this point in the 1988 season. 
All five Miami offensive skill posi­tions have starters with at least 10 receptions in four games this year. Ful­lback Cleveland Gary leads the team with 19 catches for 270 yards. In con­trast, Ricky Watters is leads Notre Dame with six catches for 63 yards in five games. · 
"The reason we recruited him is he was a very intelligent quarterback who was a winner and who could throw the football," Miami head coach Jimmy Johnson explained. "He was not highly­recruited, but the qualities he possesses are what we look for in a quarterback." 

Helpsstudentsrelievestress. 
The stress ofsolving equations that run a68881 math m-processor. Its memory from here to Tierra del Fuego. Of tracking expands up to 2gigabytes. Its hard disk capa­the elusive quark. And of analyzing the city, to 80MB. Its architecture, wide open-strains placed on your average suspension with six NuBufslots for communications, bridge on awindy day. video boards and MS-OOS co-processing. 
To all of you who must move moun-All of which is good reason to do one tains ofdatawe offer the Macintosh' II com-simple thing the next time an assignment puter. Owning one is comparable to having has you stressed out: Plug one in. apersonal workstation or powerful main-.,_ frame sitting on your desk. . 
It has aclock speed of 15.7 MHz. And The power to be }{>Ur best"' © J'JHX.'VfJ•· c,.,,,.,,,~ 111r ..w•··· rl•· .w••· hf.•• """.l''";"h"'' ""' ""~~'"''"'''""M""rl<i 11{ mul7hf1•111.,. ~· '"'.!""'""'.''urnwk•"'"* tf.'(fl• O•"i>'~ ''": 
.\u/ttL~ 1.~ u lmt!lfuurl: r!f'7i:ms hl.~nmll'lll( /ur. .ll\' /Nil' i\'tt rt'}!M'f't.,/lmtlmulrl:t!f.llif:nN/ O"f~tlntlioll. 
~.-.... 
~~~ ...~? /­
,--~ ~.·-. ~~ }'" 

\ 

...---~-~~----,~----.-----~·-----~ 


Irish Extra 

Weekend Edition, October 13-15< 1988 



Johnson has 'Canes rolling 
Controversy, winning always follow Miami coach 
By STEVE MEGARGEE team used to finishing in the school our quarterbacks to take Assistant Sports Editor middle of the Big Eight, but a advantage of what defenses the little too ordinary for a school opponents run, not to be During his four-year tenure coming off a national champi­governed by the scoreboard." at the University of Miami, onship season. Miami was hoping to impress Jimmy Johnson has not exactly "There was a lot of pressure the pollsters, as Johnson was gone out of his way to build up on Johnson," said Greg Cote, upset that an Oklahoma-Penn his public image. who covers Hurricane football State Orange Bowl matchup 
But when you look at his for The Miami Herald. was determining the national record, it's difficult to think "Schnellenberger was a champion that year. Miami how much more he needs to do popular coach who had just had defeated Oklahoma 27-14 to become recognized as one of delivered a national champion­earlier that season. Johnson the truly outstanding coaches ship. Expectations were high, had to eat his words because in recent college football his­and Johnson came into that sit­Tennessee ended up trouncing tory. uation." the Hurricanes 31-7 in the 
With Johnson at the helm, the His first year at Miami fea­Sugar Bowl. Hurricanes boast a 45-8 record, tured the talents of quarter­Behind Heisman Trophy win­one national championship, back Bernie Kosar, but the ner Vinny Testaverde, Miami four consecutive New Year's Hurricanes were only 8-5 again had an undefeated regu­Day bowl appearances, a 36-because of a weak defense. The lar season in 1986. But in a cel­game regular-season winning last three games of that 1984 ebrated Fiesta Bowl with Penn streak and a 20-game road win­season were a 42-40 loss to State, the Hurricanes were up­ning streak. Maryland, a 47-45loss to Boston set 14-10 in a game that decided 
Johnson didn't exactly arrive College and a 39-37 Fiesta Bowl the national champion. at the Coral Gables, Fla., loss to UCLA. The pre-game festivities did school like a hurricane. Previ­Miami then lost its opening not help Miami's image with ous Miami coach Howard game of the 1985 season, falling the public at all. The most Schnellenberger had resigned 35-23 to then arch-rival Florida. memorable event had the Hur­in 1983 to take a job coaching That's the last time the Hur­ricane players walk out of an a United States Football ricanes have lost a regular activity dressed in fatigues League team in Miami. That season game. after the Penn State players franchise never became a That also was the year the presented a mildly offensive reality, and Schnellenberger Hurricanes disposed of Notre skit concerning the Miami eventually took a job coaching Dame 58-7 in Gerry Faust's last team. The press billed the the University of Louisville game coaching the Irish, and game as a "good guys vs. bad near his hometown. in which Johnson was accused guys" showdown, always 
Schnellenberger was of running up the score. Miami making sure to contrast the Miami's darling after the Hur­blocked a punt to score its last styles of Penn State coach Joe ricanes upset Nebraska 31-30 in touchdown and ran a reverse Paterno and Johnson, who the 1983 Orange Bowl to win the in the final minute of the game. didn't help matters by sarcasti­national championship. "You stay in the offense you cally referring to Paterno as 
Johnson had compiled a 30-run," Johnson said at the time. "St. Joe." 25-2 record in five years at "We're a passing team. 
see JIMMY, page 8

Oklahoma State, not bad for a Everybody knows that. We 
NowyoucanD asmuc tosh as youneed.  Heres amultiple choice quiz you really can't fail.In fact, it may even improve your G.P.A.: Should you buy one of our Macintosh-Plus personal computers? Or one of our Macintosh SE personal computers? The answer, of course, depends. If you've been holding out for that ever-elusive combination of high performance and affordability, you'll very likely want our Macintosh Plus. it has one full megabyte of RAM.128K of ROM. And adouble-sided 800K internal disk drive. Translated, that means the Macintosh Plus can plot astatistical formula or repaginate areport in the time it took you to read this sentence. But-ifyou truly want to expand your horizons-we suggest the Macintosh SE. It has all the attributes of the Plus, plus alittle more. Like one megabyte of RAM, expandable to four megabytes. Awalloping 256K of ROM. As well as an expansion slot that lets you customize the system for your particular nee:ls. And to ensure you have plenty of space for your growing intellect, the SE gives you achoice of two storage options. Either two built-in BOOK disk drives. Or one built-in 800K disk drive along with an internal 20-megabyte hard disk. So even ifyour term paper begins to reach epic proportions, you can rest assured you'll have room for the whole thing. All six hundred footnotes included. Th learn more, visit your campus microcomputer center. They'll gladly answer any questions, including the one your parents will ask: How much? ti.The power to be your besr Computer Center Room 25 Math Building 8:00AM-5:00PM  

Weekend Edition, October 13-15, 1988 

Green 
continued from page 1 
Green has been doing some­thing right during Irish football games, having missed only two since coming to Notre Dame in 1985 as a consensus prep All­American. The six-foot, 184­pound tailback finds himself sharing the backfield with some talented runners. 
"I think it's great for the team," Green says. "I'm in some good company. You see Anthony Johnson, Tony Brooks and Braxston Banks and you think 'Wow, those guys are good, those are football players.' We're all spoken of in the same breath, and that's really a compliment to me." 
Green led the Irish with 861 yards rushing last year, includ­ing three straight 100-yard rushing games against Navy 002 yards), Boston College (a team single-game high 152) and Alabama (149). He ran for six touchdowns, including two against the Eagles, and had 13 pass receptions for 98 yards. 
Green does not like to talk about personal goals, but does numerate the four goals set by the team before the season. 
"We sat down in the spring and jotted down what we wanted to accomplish," Green says. "The first goal was a win­ning season. If we got that, the second goal was a bowl game. Even better was the third goal, to be playing in a bowl game on New Year's Day, and the fourth, of course, to be playing for the National Champion­ship." 

Barring an Irish collapse, the first two would seem to be in the bag, with the Irish standing at 5-0 heading into Saturday's matchup with the Miami Hur­ricanes. 
This year, Green has led the team in rushing twice, against Michigan and Michigan State. On 76 carries, he has netted 367 yards for an average of 4.8 yards per carry, and has scored three touchdowns. He also has three receptions for 44 yards. 
Green ranks second on the team, behind quarterback Tony Rice, in total offense with 
77.6 yards per game, and second to Tony Brooks in all­purpose running with 436 total yards. 
The numbers reflect a balanced offensive attack, which Green says is a real ad­vantage for the Irish. 
"The defense never knows who is going to get the ball," Green says. "We can go to a lot of people and be successful, and that is a real advantage to our offense." 
Irish Extra 


Former Notre Dame field goal kicker Mike Miami In 1982. VIc Lombardi recalls that game, Johnston is swept up by his jubilant teammates which was the last time the Irish beat the Hur­after kicking the game-winning field goal against rlcanes, In "Time Capsule" below. 
•




Johnston rallies Irish 1n '82 
By VIC LOMBARDI "Machine Gun" Kelly. The the air and pulled down a one­
Sports Writer 'Canes were looking for their handed interception to give 
first victory in five winless con­Miami the ball with only 2: 58 
Six years. frontations at Notre Dame left. 
It has been six long years Stadium. "Their nose guard (Tony 
since the Irish have last Mter a scoreless first quar­Fitzpatrick) came up to me and 
defeated the Miami Hur­ter, Blair Kiel scurried into the said, 'It's over,' " said Irish 
ricanes, when Mike Johnston end zone on a quarterback boot­center Tom Thayer. "I said, 
nailed the dramatic 32-yard leg for a 7-0 Irish advantage. 'Excuse Me?' He said, 'It's 
field goal that sealed a 16-14 But this would be the only Irish over.' Then I looked at him and 
Irish victory. touchdown of the day. The said, 'Over? This is Notre 
Notre Dame defense, which Dame.' " 
was rated first in the nation, The defense did its part and
.

Time held quarterback Mark Richt stopped Miami cold on their . .• and the Miami offense to a next possession, forcing them
Capsule 0 

squeamish 63 first-half yards. to punt. The Irish offense, un­
The fireworks began in the der the direction of Kiel, shifted 
Like the other memorable second half when the Hur­into their two-minute offense 
kickers in Irish lore--Joe ricanes drove 74 yards on the and drove the ball down to the 
Perkowski, Bobby Thomas, opening drive and tied the Miami 15 with only 11 ticks left 
Chuck Male, Joe Unis and score. Then, Johnston booted a on the clock. 
Harry Oliver--Johnston was al­42-yard field goal for a three­Miami pulled the old "give 
most certain to add his name point Irish lead. him time to think about it" 
to the list. But in the fourth quarter, the stunt, calling a timeout right 
winds changed as the Hur­before Johnston's kick. 
His was a fairytale story. He ricanes took a 14-10 lead. On "During the timeouts, I just was a walk-on who earned his first-and-10 at the 21, Richt hit kept looking at the tee,'' first scholarship in his senior wide receiver Rocky Belk on a Johnston said. season. He came into the game 79-yard touchdown pass down "He was thinking about six-of-six on field-goal at­the sideline. Notre Dame cut losing his scholarship,'' Faust tempts. He became the hero by the lead to a point as Johnston kidded. splitting the uprights for the connected on field goal No. 2, With the tee lined up on the third consecutive time during a 42-yarder with 8:27 left. left hash-mark, Johnston the game, the final one with The Irish got the ball back gracefully booted the ball only 11 seconds remaining. and executed a 49-yard drive through the uprights to give the 
Sound familiar? that featured several long runs Irish a 16-14 victory. The 
"I'm sure glad I gave him a by tailback Phil Carter. With players, coaches, as well as scholarship this year,'' said a the ball on the Miami 6-yard some frenzied fans, smothered jubilant Gerry Faust. "He's line, the Irish were in a favor­the field to congratulate their worth every penny of it." able positon to retake the lead. newest hero. 
The 17th-ranked Hurricanes, But Kiel lost his primary "I can't take anything away who were then coached by receiver and heaved a pass into from that little No. 4," said Howard Schnellenberger, were the crowded corner of the end Faust. "I told him, 'Hey, I'm forced to play without injured zone. Miami defensive back glad I gave you that scholar­starting quarterback, Jim Rodney Bellinger leaped into ship. You earned it.' " 


PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week, The Observer sports staff, a random student picked by the sports department and some well-known figure in the Notre Dame community predict the outcome of the week's major college football games. Records 






A . :~rl
are compiled as to how each person does against the spread. In other words, it isn't enough to Pete Sklko Jane Shea Marty Strasen Steve Megargee Theresa Kelly ~Budde Steve Beuerleln pick the winner of a given game. Asst. Sports Ed. SMC Sports Ed. Sports Editor Asst. Sports Ed. Asst. Sports Ed. Random Student Guest Celebrity The person must pick the winner 35·33-1 34·34-1 33-35·1 28-40-1 26-42-1 36-32-1 30-38-1 
.515 .500 .485 .412 .382 .529 .441
and give the underdog points. 

(last week: 4·9-1) (last week: 7-6-1) (last week: 7-6·1) (last week: 2-11-1) (last week: 4-9-1) (last week: 7-6-1) (last week: 6-7-1)
Home team is in CAPS. 

Texas Tech over RICE by 7 Owls Red Raiders Red Raiders Red Raiders Red Raiders Red Raiders Red Raiders 
PENN STATE over Syracuse by 4 Orangemen Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Orangemen MICH. STATE over N'western by 22 Spartans Spartans . Spartans Spartans Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats PITT over Temple by 20 Panthers Owls Panthers Panthers Panthers Owls Panthers 
Air Force over UTAH by 10.5 Falcons Runnin' Utes Falcons Falcons Runnin' Utes Runnin' Utes Falcons 
Michigan over IOWA by 6 Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Hawk eyes Hawk eyes Wolverines Hawkeyes MISS. STATE over So. Miss. by 1 Golden Eagles Bulldogs Golden Eagles Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Alabama over TENNESSEE by 9 Volunteers Volunteers Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Volunteers LSU over Kentucky by 13 Tigers Wildcats Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers NEBRASKA over Okla. State by 9 
Cowboys Corn huskers Corn huskers Corn huskers Cornhuskers Cornhuskers Corn huskers ­USC over Washington by 14 Trojans Trojans Huskies Huskies Trojans Trojans Huskies OHIO STATE over Purdue by 15 Boilermakers Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Boilermakers Buckeyes Ucla over CALIFORNIA by 20 Bruins Bears Bruins Bruins Bruins Bruins Bruins Miami over NOTRE DAME by 4 Hurricanes Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish 

Irish Extra

page a Weekend Edition October 13-15 1988 
just allowing his men to un­ricanes favorable to the Stillwater, Okla., school, also antics like before the Fiesta

Jimmy 

dergo the learning process. Johnson approach. likes the Miami coach's style. Bowl. There was only normal "We really don't put a muzzle "His style of coaching is very "I know this, Jimmy Johnson game preparation, a 20-14 vic­
continued from page 6 

on our players as most every­laid back," said Walsh. "He's has never let his kids run tory and a national title. 
But Johnson has to be doing one knows by now," said not the kind of coach who tells around," said Jones. "I know "This (Miami) football team something right on road trips Johnson. "We talk to our you what to do, like making that stuff at Miami was blown looks better than last year's, if his Hurricanes have won 20 players throughout the year sure you're going to church, out of proportion. It's a lot dif­and that's saying something," straight as the visitors. that it'd be in their best interest like other coaches I've played ferent coaching kids at Stil­said Notre Dame football coach 
"It's a question of being in to talk positive and talk about for. He's got rules you've got lwater or Arkansas than at Lou Holtz. "I think you have to the right frame of mind to our team rather than our op­to follow ... but he doesn't pull Miami." give the Miami coaches win," said Johnson. "We're ponent, but occasionally some­the reins too tight. Johnson finally got his bowl a lot of credit for putting to­strict with our itinerary on our one will say things. That's part "I enjoy playing for him," victory and national title last gether what is undoubtedly the players when we're on the of the learning experience. I Walsh continued. "He's the year with Walsh as his quarter­best football team in the road. We truly treat it like a don't try to restrict what they kind of guy who, if you get in back. And it appeared Johnson country." business trip." say, I just give advice." a jam, he's going to help you also had received his own Maybe a second straight na­
And as for the accusations out as much as he can." learning experience. Before tional title finally will have that his players show too much Steve Walsh, the latest in the Oklahoma State coach Pat facing Oklahoma in the Orange people comparing Johnson with cockiness and too little class on string of great Miami quarter­Jones, who worked under Bowl, there were no words like the Paternos, rather than con­the field, Johnson thinks he's backs, is one of many Hur-Johnson during his days at the before the Sugar Bowl and no trasting the two. 
IRISH STATS HURRICANE STATS SCHEDULES 
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP Rice 46 348 7.6 5 38 TEAM STATISTICS UM OPP Crowell 22 103 4.7 0 15 NOTRE DAME (5-0) TOTAL OFFENSE 1903 1430 Johnson 36 134 3.7 2 22 TOTAL OFFENSE 1807 971 Highsmith 9 52 5.8 0 11 
d. MICHIGAN, 19-17 

YARDS Culver 12 74 6.2 1 36 YARDS A.Johnson 8 35 4.4 0 10 Total Plays 353 323 Banks 11 27 2.5 1 6 Total Plays 297 277 Aaron 1 34 34.0 0 34 
d. Michigan State, 20-3 

Yards per Play 5.39 4.43 Watters 16 25 1.6 0 14 Yards per Play 6.08 3.51 Waiters 8 27 3.4 0 10 d. PURDUE, 52-7 Yards per Game 380.6 286.0 Setzer 8 23 2.9 0 12 Yards per Game 451.8 242.8 Erickson 2 6 3.0 0 11 
d. STANFORD, 42-14 

PENAL TIES-YARDS 25·237 33-283 Belles 5 22 4.4 0 10 Walsh 3 -2 ·0.7 0 1 
28-211 22-185 d. Pittsburgh, 30-20
FUMBLES-LOST 6-4 7-4 Eilers 4 18 4.5 0 7 PENALTIES-YARDS TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 105 84 K.Graham 4 12 3.0 0 5 FUMBLES-LOST 14-10 13-6 MIAMI 133 587 4.4 3 34 Oct. 15 -MIAMI By Rushing 71 33 Satterfield 2 9 4.5 0 6 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 89 54 OPPONENTS 101 568 2.3 0 33 
Oct. 22 -AIR FORCE 

By Passing 27 43 P.Graham 3 9 3.0 0 9 By Rushing 32 22 
Oct. 29 -at Navy

By Penalty 7 8 Mihalko 2 5 2.5 0 3 By Passing 52 29 PASSING NO CO PCT INT YDS TO THIRD DOWNS-CONV 68-34 68-21 Jarosz 2 -2 -1.0 0 0 By Pena~y 5 3 Nov. 5-RICE 
Walsh 130 73 .562 3 1037 1050.0 30.9 Ebert 1 -4 -4.0 0 -4
Percentage Nov. 19-PENN STATE 
POSSESSION TIME 159:09 140:51 Team 1 -21 -21.0 0 -21 THIRD DOWNS-CONV 62-28 65-25 Erickson 31 14 .452 1 185 3 
Nov. 26-at Southern Cal

Minutes per Game 31:50 28:10 NOTRE DAME 2871434 5.0 13 52 Percentage 45.2 38.5 Kalal 1 11.000 0 9 0 
OPPONENTS 173 558 3.2 3 31 POSSESSION TIME 112:55 127:05 Huerta 1 0 .000 0 0 0 SCORING G TO PA R-PA S FG TP PASSING NO CO PCT INT YDS TO Minutes per Game 28:14 31:46 Ho 5 0 16-18 0-0 0 7-9 37 Rice 55 28 .509 4 401 3 UM 163 BB .540 4 1231 13 
Belles 3 1 .333 0 34 1

Rice 5 5 0·0 1-1 0 0-0 32 SCORING G TO PA R-PA S FG TP OPP 101 49 .485 6 568 3 
K.Graham 6 3 .500 2 18 0 MIAMI (4-0)
Green 530-0 0-00 0-0 18 Huerta 4 0 15-15 0-0 o 7-10 36 
520-0 0-00 0-0 12 P.Graham 2 1 .500 0 16 u d. FLORIDA STATE, 31-0
Brooks Gary 4 5 0-0 0-0 o 0-0 30 RECEIVING NO YDS AVG TO LG 
NO 66 33 .500 6 469 4

D.Brown 520·0 0·00 0-0 12 A.Brown 5 3 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 18 d. Michigan, 31-30
OPP 150 80 .533 9 872 4

Watters 52Q-O 0-00 0-0 12 Chudzinski 4 3 0·0 0·0 0 0-0 1B Gary 19 270 14.2 2 49 
d. WISCONSIN, 24-3

Johnson 520-0 0-00 0-0 12 RECEIVING NO YDS AVG TO LG Dawkins 4 2 0·0 1-1 2 0-0 14 Dawkins 13 169 13.0 2 35 Banks 510-0 0-00 0-0 6 Watters 6 63 10.5 0 21 Clark 4 1 0-0 0-0 o 0-0 6 Chudzinski 13 171 13.2 3 29 d. MISSOURI, 55-0 
Culver 510-o o-oo 0-0 6 Eilers 5 55 11.0 0 13 
Conley 4 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Hill 11 180 16.4 1 48 Oct. 15 -at Notre Dame 
Ismail

Ismail 510·0 0-00 0-0 6 4 91 22.8 1 54 Hill 410-0 0·0 00·0 6 A. Brown 10 195 19.5 3 45 
Oct. 22-CINCINNATI

Stonebrkr 510-o o-oo 0-0 6 Brooks 4 78 19.5 1 34 P.Smith 4 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Conley 7 72 10.3 1 21 
0 0-0 1-1 Brown 29 2 Oct. 29 -at E. Carolina
Hackett 5 1-1 0 4 4 7.2 11 Walsh 4 0 0-0 0-2 0 0·0 0 Crowell 6 71 11.8 0 18 
Green 3 44 14.7 0 38 Kelleher 4 50 12.5 0 18 Nov. 5-TULSA 

NO 5 20 17·19 1·1 0 8·10 163 Alaniz 2 49 24.5 0 26 UM 4 17 15-15 0-3 0 7-10 140 P.Smith 3 32 10.7 1 17 
Nov. 19-at LSU
Banks 2 36 18.0 0 30

OPP 5 7 7-7 0-0 0 4-6 61 OPP 4 3 1-1 1-2 0 4-7 33 Bethel 1 9 9.0 0 9 
Johnson 2 22 11.0 0 13 Nov. 26-ARKANSAS
Aaron 1 12 12.0 0 12 
RUSHING Mihalko 1 2 2.0 0 2
NO YDS AVG TO LG RUSHING NO YDS AVG TO LG Dec. 3 -BRIGHAM YOUNG 
Brooks 58 388 6.7 1 52 NOTRE DAME 33 469 14.2 4 54 Gary 38 189 5.0 3 21 MIAMI BB 1231 14.0 13 49 Green 76 367 4.8 3 26 OPPONENTS 80 872 10.9 4 42 Conley 42 143 3.4 0 25 OPPONENTS 49 568 11.6 3 34 
HALFBACK (\ 28 Leonard Conley 

Miami Offense ~ 21 Alex Johnson 
FULLBACK 43 Cleveland Gary 20 Shannon Crowell 
QUARTERBACK SPLIT END4 Steve Walsh 3 Randal Hill7 Craig Erickson 18 Pee Wee Smith 
ff\ 
TACKLE 52 Darrin Brucer 62 Gary Mahon 
GUARD 79 Mike Sullivan 66 Darren Handy 
NOSE TACKLE so Chris Zorich TACKLE Irish Defense 

TACKLE 
96 Steve Roddy ..

90 Jeff Aim 69 George Wtlhams 
~· '\:., .·~ ~...~-· ~-e;;~· 
CORNERBACK ~ ~ ~ ~ CORNERBACK 1 Todd Lyght INSIDE LINEBACKER~ ~ INSIDE LINEBACKER 29 Stan Smagala 33 David Jandric 34 Wes Pritchett 42 Mike Stonebreaker 32 D'Juan Francisco ~ 36 Donn Grimm 47 Ned Bolcar ~ 
FREE SAFETY STRONG SAFETY 15 Pat Terrell ~ ~ 27 George Streeter 31 Corny Southall • • 26 Greg Davis 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE  NOTRE DAME DEFENSE  
POS  NO  PLAYER  HT  WT CL  RE  30  Frank Stems  6-4  237 Sr.  
SE  80  Steve Alaniz  6-2  196 Sr.  37  Scott Kowalkowski  6-2  226 So.  
25  Raghib Ismail  5-10  175 Fr.  LT  69  George Williams  6-3  282 So.  
QT  66  Andy Heck  6-7  2n Sr.  87  Tom Gorman  6-6  255 Sr.  
64  Mike Brennan  6-5  246 Sr.  NT  50  Chris Zorich  6-1  260 So.  
QG  53  Wlnaton Sandrl  6-4  253 So.  92  Bryan Flannery  6-3  249 Jr.  
52  Tim Ryan  6-4  245 So.  RT  90  Jeff Aim  6-7  246 Jr.  
c  55  Mike Heldt  6-4  258 So.  93  Bob Dahl  6-5  248 So.  
76  Gene McGuire  6-5  265 Fr.  DE  38  Flash Gordon  6-3  214 Sr.  
TG  72  Joe Allen  6-4  268 So.  7  Andre Jones  6-4  215 So.  
75  Tim Grunhard  6-3  279 Jr.  MLB  34  Wee PrHchett  6-6  251 Sr.  
TT  71  Dean Brown  6-3  283 Jr.  36  Donn Grimm  6-2  224 So.  
70  Marty Uppincott  6-5  284 Sr.  
TE  86  Derek Brown  6-7  235 Fr.  ELB  42  Mike Stonebreaker  6-1  226 Jr.  
88  Frank Jacobs  6-5  234 So.  47  Ned Bolcar  6-2  232 Sr.  
QB  9  Tony Rice  6-1  198 Jr.  FCB  1  Todd Lyght  6-1  181 So.  
17  Kent Gtaham  6-5  228 So.  33  David Jandric  6-2  192 Jr.  
FB  22  Anthony Johnaon  6-0  225 Jr.  SCB  29  Stan Smagala  5-11  186 Jr.  
39  Braxston Banks  6-3  211 Jr.  32  D'Juan Francisco  5·11  187 Sr.  
TB  24  Mark Green  6-0  184 Sr.  ss  27  George Streeter  6-2  212 Sr.  
40  Tony Brooks  6-2  218 So.  26  Greg Davis  6·1  198 So.  
FL  12  Ricky Wattera  6-2  201 So.  FS  15  Pat Terrell  6-0  195 Jr.  
13  Pat Eilers  5-11  197 Sr.  31  Corny Southall  6-2  194 Sr.  
PK  2  Reggie Ho  5-5  135 Sr.  p  16  Jim Sexton  6-0  188 So.  
18  Billy Hackett  6-1  184 So.  14  Sean Connor  6-7  214 Sr.  

MIAMI OFFENSE MIAMI DEFENSE POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL LE 94 Greg Mark 6-4 238 Jr. SE 3 Randal Hill 5-11 175 So. 58 Willis Peguese 6-4 245 Jr. 
18 Pee Wee Smith 6·1 180 Jr. LT 67 Russell Maryland 6-2 272 So. LT 52 Darrln Bruce 6-3 260 Sr. 63 Jimmie Jones 6-4 261 Jr. 62 Gary Mahon 6-3 264 Sr. RT 44 Shane Curry 6-4 245 So. LG 79 Mike Sullivan 6-4 274 So. 96 Cortez Kennedy 6-3 295 Jr. 66 Darren Handy 6·1 263 So. 
c 50 Bobby Garcia 6-3 253 Jr. RE 54 Bill Hawkins 6-6 260 Sr. 65 Steve Rosinski 6-1 247 Jr. 95 Eric Miller 6-4 228 Fr. SLB 22 Randy Shannon s-o 224 Sr. RG 68 Barry Panfil 6·3 250 Jr. 85 Kevin Harris 6·4 220 So. 66 Darren Handy 6·1 263 So. MLB 57 Bernard Clark 6-2 238 Jr. RT 75 John O'Neill 6-3 267 Sr. 99 Matt Britton 6-3 224 Fr. 73 Leon Searcy 6-3 275 Fr. WLB 91 Rod Carter 6-1 231 Sr. TE 84 Rob Chudzinski 6-4 220 So. 49 Maurice Crum 6·0 220 So. BB Dennis Kelleher 6·3 233 Jr. CB 29 Donald Ellis 5-11 195 Sr. QB 4 Steve Walsh 6-3 195 Jr. 16 Roland Smith 5-9 183 So. 
7 Craig Erickson 6·2 195 So. ss 39 Bobby Harden 6-2 195 Jr. HB 28 Leonard Conley 5-9 170 So. 8 Hurlie Brown 6·1 190 Fr. 21 Alex Johnson 5-9 170 So. 
FB 43 Cleveland Gary 6-2 226 Sr. FS 48 Bubba McDowell 6-1 195 Sr. 20 Shannon Crowell 5-11 194 So. 2 Charles Pharms 5-11 180 Fr. FL 11 Dale Dawkins 6-1 194 Jr. CB 6 Kenny Berry 6-2 185 Jr. 83 Andre Brown 6-3 212 Sr. 23 Robert Baily 5-10 170 So. PK 27 Carlos Huerta 5-9 185 Fr. p 19 Tim Kalal 6-2 180 Jr. 

TAILBACK 24 Mark Green 40 Tony Brooks 
~ 
Irish Offense FuLLBACK 

22 Anthony Johnson 
35 Ryan Mihalko FLANKER 12 Ricky Watters QUARTERBACK 13 Pat Eilers A 9 Tony Rice 
TIGHT END TACKLE ~ 17 Kent Graham 
f.il 86 Derek Brown 66 Andy Heck 

,.. ..,.~,~ ~..~r,. ~~:f..~"=­
CENTER 
GUARD 55 Mike Heldt GUARD 53 Winston Sandri 76 Gene McGuire 72 Joe Allen 52 Tim Ryan 
Miami Defense TACKLE TACKLE 
67 Russell Maryland 44 Shane Curry 63 Jimmie Jones 96 Cortez Kennedy 
DEFENSIVE ENDo· b b b DEFENSIVE END' :
94 Greg Mark 58 Willis Peguese "' 

LINEBACKER ~ ~ ~ 
22 Randy Sh~non 85 Kev1n Hams 

MIDDLE LINEBACKER 57 Bernard Clark CORNERBACK 
~ 99MattBritton ~ 
29 Donald Ellis 16 Roland Smith FREE SAFETY 
STRONG SAFETY 
48 Bubba McDowell 
39 Bobby Harden 
2 Charles Pharms 
8 Hurlie Brown 

Weekend Edition, October 13-15, 1988 Accent gage 15 

The man behind the message 

MATTHEW SPATZ accent writer 

M 
ay I have your atten­tion please? This is Ser­geant Tim McCarthy of the Indiana State Police ... 
These phrases have quieted the Notre Dame crowd in Rockne Stadium for over twenty-five years. Like fol­lowers in a ritual, the fans hush for thirty seconds late in the fourth quarter to listen to the guru of traffic safety. 
He speaks, a faceless name, with words of caution and comedy, and the fans love him. Who is he? Born in Fort Wayne, and raised an Irish Catholic, Tim McCarthy ad­mired his father's dedication as a city policeman and joined the force in 1953. He served the Indiana State Police for twenty-five years, and then retired briefly. In 1979, he became sheriff of Porter County for eight years. Now he is the Porter County Assessor. He lives with his wife and two children in Westville, Indiana. 
The big question on every-
one's mind is "Does he write his own material?" The an­swer is yes, for the most part. "It's sort of an obses­sion with me. I watch the whole year for puns and cata­log the words." Later, he works them into a pun for the announcement. 
In 1960, he was made the announcer with two games left in the season. "At first, I was very straight and sin­cere," said McCarthy. "But people didn't want to hear someone telling them to be careful driving." He needed something to attract people's attention. In 1961, the pun was born. 
His first pieces were bor­rowed from the traffic an­nouncer from Chicago's WGN radio. The very first pun was appropriately historic in its tone as McCarthy said: "So remember, the automobile has replaced the horse, but the driver should stay on the wagon." From then on, McCarthy has reminded the Irish fans of his vehicular sense of humor at all but eight games. 
He generally keeps in the background in the pressbox. He prefers the upper deck. "Inside is like a giant TV screen with the glass in front of you. I like it outside where you are more a part of the action." He likes to talk to the old sports writers and us­hers. "They can tell you about Bertelli and Lujack be­cause they saw them." McCarthy recalls some of his own Notre Dame moments like "when Tim Brown ran back those returns. You just don't see that very often. And the USC game when Dan Devine brought out those green and gold jerseys. I'll never forget that." 

He loves the fans at the games as well. A cameraman a few years ago remarked that he had never seen such a crowd reaction. McCarthy replied, "Wait 'til kickoff." 
According to McCarthy, "The rush comes when Mike Collins hands me the mike, but I concentrate on the delivery." He is pretty ner­vous at that time. "I even put my own name down so I don't forget it." And when he finishes, "then comes the hooting and the hollering and the groans." 
McCarthy is enthusiastic about this year's team. "I don't think I've ever seen a backfield or defense so fast." Does he think we can do it this year? "You bet we can do it. The whole team works together well. It's like they have the same mind." 
McCarthy has enjoyed an­nouncing the past twenty­seven seasons. "I'd pay them to do it," he said. Unfortun­ately, he occasionally finds himself in need of material. Informally, he finds an oc­casional letter from a student with a suggestion. He thought about hosting a contest where the authors of the three best entries would win hams. "Good hams, too. You supply the jokes, I'll supply the hams. After all, these things are corny. But people will re­
member the lines. It's a gim­mick that worked." Some of McCarthy classics include: 
"Drunk drivers aren't very funny, but they can still crack you up." 
"You're at the end of your rope if you tie one on." "There will be more people left if you drive right." 
"If you try to paint the town red, you may have the blues tomorrow." 
And the famous, "Too many bottles can make a case in court." 
McCarthy won't use some puns because of their ques­tionable interpretation. In fact, he realized that the 1986 Air Force remark, "If you don't rub people the wrong way, they'll get a better feeling," could be taken the wrong way. 
Though he loves the games and the puns, McCarthy takes his messages seriously. He implores the commuter to watch the drinking, watch the excessive speed, and stay alert. He is, however, pleased with the traffic leaving the game. The accident rate is much lower than it used to be. "There is a trend, not a fear of arrest, but a concern about safety." McCarthy also said that South Bend now has the best reputation of any stadium for traffic control. "We have the best fans and the best drivers." 
Fans, there is a person be­hind the voice. So remember, if you don't listen to the Ser­geant, you may end up in Major trouble. 

... 

Successful blend of 

WVFI 
AM 64 

Top 10 Albums 
Oct. 4 -Oct. 11 

1.LET'S ACTIVE "Every Dog Has Its Day" 2. U2 "Desire" 
3. 
SIOUXSIE AND THE BAN­SHEES "Peep Show" 

4. 
THE FEELIES "Only Life" 

5. 
HOTHOUSE FLOWERS "People" 

6. 
JANE'S ADDICTION "Noth­ing's Shocking" 

7. 
THE PRIMITIVES "Lovely" 

8. 
FISH BONE "Truth and Soul" 

9. 
PIXIES "Gigantio'Aiver Euphrates" 

10. 
B.A.D. "Tighten Up Vol. '88" 


DAVID DESALLE accent writer 

I 
t is a wonder indeed when a record company releases a compilation album that reall. does justice to a band. All Of This And Nothing is an album that should please both neop­hytes and dedicated Psyc­hedelic Furs fans. 
The 12 cuts on this Colum­bia release are representative of all previous Furs albums from its self-entitled first al­bum in 1980 to 1986's popular offering Midnight To Mid­night. There is also a new track called "All that Money Wants." 
This new song proves to be danceable as John Ashton's guitar mumbles its high pitched droning while Rich­ard Butler intones his bitter words: "I don't believe that I believed in you." The Psyc­hedelic Furs has perfected their surrealistic sound and intriguing lyrics since their beginning eight years ago. 
The other 11 songs provide a fantastic "best of" selec­tion. Slow, sensitive ballads, sneering social commen­taries, and some fine dance tunes are included. 
"Imitation of Christ" is characteristic of the Furs' first album. A scourging chant that bashes religious hypocracy, it has the thick melody and impassioned lyrics that the Psychedelic Furs has continued to develop since. 
The band's greatest hit comes from Talk Talk Talk, released in 1981. "Pretty in Pink" has little to do with the movie that later adopted it as its theme song and title. It is actually an unflattering and sad commentary on a superfi­cial and promiscuous girl, Caroline. Butler sings, "All of her lovers! All talk of her notes! And the flowers that they never senV And wasn't she easy/Isn't she pretty in pink?" 

"Love, My Way" is a beau­tiful, yearning love song from the 1982 release, Forever Now. It is similar to "The Ghost in You" which is from 1984's Mirror Moves. The lyrics are sweet and under­standing: "A race is orV I'm on your side! And here in you my engines die! I'm in a mood for you." 



Furs 
From the most recent al­
bum, Midnight to Midnight, 
"Heartbreak Beat" dances 
bold and certain and revels in 
the power and pleasure of 
youth. 
All Of This And Nothing is 
a responsible album and 
more. Not only does it pres­
ent some of the best Psyc­
hedelic Furs songs from the 
past, but the new track as­
sures that the Furs will con­
tinue to push its own unique 
sound to greater heights. 


• 
The a..-Not,. DaJne office, located on the third floof of LaFortune Stu· dent Centw, ecapta classified ~lsmg from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The a..-s.lnt ~office, located on the third floor of ~Collge Centw, accepts claalfleda from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deedllne for next-day claaalfleda Ia 3 p.m. All claaalfleda must
Classifieds be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five c:Nrw::tent pw day. 
1 have MONEY for Miami tix. Need 2  2 AFORC TIX 4 SALE  I NEEED 2 PENN ST. GA'a NOWII WILL  
NOTICES  FURNISHED ROOMS HOME. NEAR CAMPUS.272-6306  &  2  BDRM  TICKETS  GA's or Stdl. Call Amy 3944 ································································  SAME ROW>SEC  PAY GOOD MONEY. PLEASE CALL JASON AT x4141.  
I NEED 2 GAS FOR MIAMI CALL 2281  CALL MONICA 2796  JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS THIS IS  
BIG MONEY  YOUR  LAST  CHANCE  GET  YOUR  
TYPING AVAILABLE  ROOMS  ARE  AVAILABLE  AT  THE  BIG MONEY  DOGBOOK PICTURE TAKEN TODAY  
287-4082  "IRISH BED & BREAKFAST" FOR MIAMI & AIR FORCE GAMES. RING 272·7738.  1 Need 2 GA's for the Air Force Game. Please Call Dan at3365 or my mom will kill me.  NEED 2 Miami GAs Will Pay $$$ andtlr trade 2 45-yard line Air Force GAs. Call John alter 11pm  NEED 1 GA MIAMI TICKET. CALL 256-5429.  OR WE MIGHT PUT YOUR FRESHMAN PICTURE IN THERE AND THEN THINK OF THE SYR DATES YOU WOULD  
WORDPROCESSING·TYPING 272-8827  i....N'tiii·..·:rixs....FoR·..·Au:..··H'o"Mi  # 1805  GET. DO IT TODAY BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE FROM 4:30 TO 8:30  
GAMES.272-8308  ................................................................  2 MIAMI STUD TIX 4 SALE, 232-8327.  JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS  
································································  Need 2 Miami Gas Will pay Big $$$  
Matt ''Schmeal'" Gallagher for VP  WANTED  HELPII I Still need PENN GAs. Please call Nancy 4434 tiiii:P..H'iii:P..ii'iii:j;...iieL:;;···i..~~;i ..;·;;  Call John Alter 11 pm at # 1805 THREE MIAMI GA's FOR SALE Ill  1have two Miami married student tickets and one student ticket. Best offer. 239-6103 or 277-2574  watch for Vision watch for Vision  
Miami GAs, yes I said 15. Will pay much  These tickets are on the 45 yd line  watch for Vision  
TEXTBOOKS ·Bought & Sold-Book&  OVERSEAS JOBS.  $. Good seats preferred. Please call Pete  Call Mike Bennette at 516-746-5177  
for ALL clio-atlll •vatl8blel UN­BEATABLE PRICESIII Pandora's Books, 808 Howard St., jual off ol NO Ave. 233-2342. ································································  Summer, yr.round.Europe,S.Amer.,Auatralla,Aala. All ftekla. $900-2000 mo. Slgh­lng.Free Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52­IN04, Corona Del Mar,CA 92625.  at 287-5871. .....t:iii.iio"4·;;·iiN·N··s;:;;,:rii·:r·,c;i<E-Ts····· PREFERRABL Y GA'S CAROLINE 283·3144 OR CARLOS 289-6417  or call Brian at 272-3405 ( I'll give him your name) . ................................................................ HAPPY DAYSII WE HAVE FOUR MIAMI GA'S. BEST OFFER BY 6PM HYt4.  NEED 2 AIRFORCE GA'SIKELLEN264· 5089 NEED 4 RICE GA'S TOGETHER OR IN PAIRS. 264-445214453 DIANE.  CELEBRATION nME: Call Elizabeth Crisp 283-4420 and wlah her a Happy BirthdaY.  
I need a ride to the Washington,DC area  CALL 283-1181 ASK FOR JOHN OR  
r  EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. CALL DOLORES FOR YOUR TYPINGWORDPROCESSING 237·1949  for fall break. Will help pay travel ex­penses. Call X2376. RIDE NEEDED TO DAYTON I'd like to leave Oct 16, 17 and will pay for gas. Mike If 3200  :r;,··c;;;-;di;~·~;;i;;;;d;;·;;;·;;;;;;;i·.;g down lor the MIAMI game, and they're bringing lee cold Canadian beer and a bunch ollunny looking money with them. They're ollerlng both beer and caah for GAa. Good d..l, ah?  DON Mv.uN'ci:E:.PHil:'i\t:io·:;;u·ti:r·"M:;;ii:ritii\ CANT COME FOR MIAMI, SO WE HAVE TWO GA'S. CALL X1225 AND GIVE BEST  I have 1 Miami stud and 2 Air Force GA's for sale. Call Lisa at x4304. I HAVE 1 MIAMI GA-WILL TRADE FOR  RIDERS NEEDED to Houston, Texas Leaving 1Q.13; returning 10<23 Call Brian at x3670 or Mille at x264 7 NEED 1 MIAMI STUD. CALL MIKE# 2238  
DESPERATE! NEED RIDE TO PHILLY/ TRENTON AREA. WILL PAY$$!! NO  Call Marty  OFFER BY THURS 6PM  1 MIAMI STUDENT TICKET! CALL TONY x1244 TODAY!  ROBOCOP Friday 8:00 and 10:15 p.m.,  
Ride offered to & from Ann Arbor Fri 1<YI4· lv al noon 272·7690  RETURN TRIP NEEDED. LEAVE ANYTIME AFTER MIAMI GAME. CALL CHRIS X3364 OR X3375.  t:iiil:P·i·N·iiiio'4..M.i.\Mi.C3i\:s·2:n:1513. t4iiiio..5··:rici<iiTs··:rc;··;;eNN'..srAT£  wE:··;;:o:iiE···;wc;··;;;i:o:M·i..i3'A:s··::c;;o:.::r:. 1222 AND ASK FOR PAT--BEST OFFER BY  MIAMI TIXI!I I have one left best offer takes it x27 42  Engineering Auditorium THE NOTRE DAME QUARTER MILE  
GAME. WANT TOGETHER BUT WILL  THUR  You don't have to look like Flo  
••••• DUKAKIS-BENTSEN 1988 ••••• There will be an meeting tonight at 6:30pm in 116 O'Shag.Piease make every effort lo attend.Questions  NEED RIDE TO INDY 1<YI4 AFTER 3:30 CALL TERESA 1367  CONSIDER SEPARATE. PLEASE CALL JIM STYNES AT (800) 223-2440 EXT. 7772. N'iieo..3..Ticit"ETs·..;:c;o·iiTtiiiR..FOR  THE "FOUR NEAT GUYS" HAVE MIAMI TIX LEAVE BEST OFFER BY 1<YI4 X 1712  MIAMI GA for sale, x-1246 Brad Help! Parents canalled & I'm stuck with 2 MIAMI GA's. Call after 6 PM.  Joyner THE NOTRE DAME QUARTER MILE  
call Mark x1177 or Ted x1795.  PROFESSOR NEEDS student to wash  MIAMI GAME. CALL COLLECT 219­ Fair prices. Jeff x 1474.  You don't have to breek a aweat  
win  482-8989.  ................................................................  

 dows inside&out. $5 hour. 232-0472.  w.\Nreo~··;;··:r,<:i<E-Ts...-Ta··Mi;;,·M·,~·No GAME. WILL PAY TOP$. CALL 305­ I REALLY, REALLY NEED 2 PENN ST. G.A.S. LEE,# 1609  "1 MIAMI & 1 AIRFORCE STUD. TIX 4 SALE(cheap)ll CALL x4804"  THE NOTRE DAME QUARTER MILE  
LOST/FOUND  GOING HOME TO BAL TIMOR&OC AREA? HAVE ROOM IN CAR? ON LUGGAGE  981-9354 AND LEAVE MESSAGE. so'Meooov...Mus:r···t:i.A:ve···;;···PE.NN  2 MIAMI GA'S FOR SALE. X1170  3AF STUD TIX FOR SALE $11 EACH  Three aaay atepa: 1. ,.ach Into your pocket 2. Pull ou1 your change  
LOST: BUNCH OF ABOUT 12 KEYS MAYBE NEAR ND POST OFFICE. CALL JULI AT 239-6335. THANKS.  RACK? TAKE ME WITH YOUIIIIPLEASE? IF YOU CAN HELP A DESPERATE FEL· LOW DOMER, CALL LAURA 4934 SOON I  STATE GA'S-PLEASE MIKE X1628 i·~;;;;;··a·PE:Nt:i·G';;,·;;·;.;·;!~-~~-4-i:ii~ or Death MEGABUCKS offerred call Tim X1616 or Bruce 8-5p.m (313)628-4300  STUD. TICKS FOR SALE INCLUDING 2 MIAMI TIX. CALL BART AT 234-4422.  CALL AMY X2691 1 Miami Stud tick for sale. Highes bidder call 1074.  3. Stick It to the mile of tape on South Quad, thla Friday from 9-5 In front ol the Booksto,.. BRING YOUR QUARTERS TO OUR MILE! All procaeda to benefl1 Untied Way  
FOUND: Man's black watch. Found alter Green&:ruffy concert. Call Chris at x3670. PLEASE Help! I lost my StMary's Class Ring around Senior Bar or the Commons on 10ti. ln~ials EED (or maybe the name), BA, 83. Call 272· 7065 or 289­4935. Thanks! STOLEN: Blue denim jacket from table by back door of North Dining Hall. If you have ~. please return ~ to 100 Stanford -Hall or call Chris at x2161. thanx  I'M DESPERATEIII NEED RIDE BACK TO SCHOOL FROM CINCINNATI ON OCT. 22 OR 23. $$$ CALL JENNY ; 25501!!1 I NEED A RIDE TO BOSTON. CALL JOHN ANYTIME, 289-8321 WANTED: BARBER OR HAIRSTYLIST  Looking for 4 Penn State GA's -good $ -call Connell 232-6233 Have 2 Miami Stud tix for sale. Still in Desperate need of 2 Penn State GAs. Please call heather at 277-3268 alter 5 p.m. 2 TIX TO ALL HOME GAMES FOR SALE 272-8883 NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S DESPERATELY CALL ED AT 288·6207  FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI STUDENT TICKET BEST OFFER ACCEPTED x1010 Katie "Kareer" needs one ticket to Miami gamer Call at 239-5200 until 5:00 or 232·5238 In p.m. Two Miami GA's for sale! Call b't 8:45-11:00 PM AT 271-0996  FOR SALE: AIR FORCE STUDENT X2615 For Sale: 2 MIAMI GA's. Best Offer­Call Mike at 283-1772.) Need to trade 2 Airlorce GAs for 2 Rice or Penn GAs. Also selling student Airtorce ticket. Ann, 2529.  The Saint Edwards Hall Playara have moved back the meeting lor the announcement o1 thatr play for the 1988-89 -son. Anyone who -nded our ..rlter meetlrng or who Is Interested In theater should attend thla meeting. The time and date ol this Important event will be given alter we return from October ar..k. Thanks.  
LOST: GEOLOGY TEXTBOOK-THE EARTH'S DYNAMIC SYSTEMS 4TH EDITION. I MUST  FOR VITO'S BARBER SHOP. CALL 233-4767. RIDERS NEEDED RETURN TRIP DC  I need 2 Penn St. GA's. I have 4 AF GA's. If you are willing to trade, sell, or buy, please call John at 2089.  4 AF STUDS 4 SALE X3201 F6 (LV MESS & OFFER OR I CANNOT RESPOND)  WILL TRADE 2 AF GA'S PLUS 1 AF STUDENT FOR 2 PENN ST. GA'S. CALL DAN X3815.  WANT TO PURCHASE T SHIRTS CATHOLIC S VS CONVICTS CALL 258-0600  
HAVE MY BOOK! A REWARD IS OF­FERED. IF YOU FIND A GEOLOGY BOOK PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 1789  AREA SUN, OCT. 23. KAREN 264·5185  I NEED RICE nx!!! Let's be serious--you don't want to see us play Rice, but my family does. I need 8 tickets for the game. If you can help, please call me at 283·1 069 ask for The  DESPERATELY NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S PLEASE CALL SHEILA: 271-9365  ITS THE END OF THE WORLD AS I KNOW IT UNLESS I GET A MIAMI TICKET. CALL ANDREW ANY TIME AT X4259.  HELP!! Ride needed to Binghampton, Syracuse, Ithaca; will share $$ Please call 3944 and leave message  
Guess what I found? A gold framed pair of bifocals. If you care to obtain your vision, SEE~ you can call Stephanie at 264·4314. LOST: BLUE N.D. ID CASE AT THE COMMONS OR IN CORBY'S PARKING LOT THURS. 10ti CALL BRIDGET 289-7616  FOR SALE TV RENTALS: YOU CAN RENT A 25" COLOR TV FOR ONLY $90.00 PLUS TAX, ORA 19" FORONLY$70.00PLUS TAX. FREE SERVICE. FOR FAST FREE DELIVERY, CALL COLLEGIATE REN· TALS AT 272-5959 ANYTIME.  Beeler. NEED 10 Miami Tx. GA or Std. Would like in grps. of 2 if possible. 233·2651. If you have MIAMI or AIR FORCE tix to sell, please call 284-9825 before 5:00 weekdays. Need 2 AF GA's. My parents sold theirs and then decided they wanted to see the game. Mark 1913  HELP!! DESPERATELY NEED 1 AF GA. CALL GEORGE 1595. NEED PENN STUD TIX CALL LAURA X2521 HAVE 1 MIAMI STUDENT TICKET CALL TIM AT x1615  HELP ME! I need 1 Air Force GA. If you can help, please call Mike at 4075. Thanx I I HAVE 1 AF AND 1 MIAMI STU. TIX BEST OFFER THURS. X 1296 For sale: 1 Miami Stud, best offer by 1(}114--1063  Tonight Tonight Tonight Tonight Midnight Midnight Midnight Stonehenge Stonehenge SACRIFICE!!!!! Love 'n' smooches, THE HOLY BROTHERHOOD SPRINGTIME NEED MIAMI GA'S. SMC 4349  OF  
LOST: SAPPHIRE HEART AND CHAIN LAST  APPLE lie COMPUTER PACKAGE in­cluding keyboard, green-screen monitor, disk drive, Hewlett Packard printer, Ap­ 1 AIR FORCE STUD. FOR SALE CALL MATT AT If 3610  6 MIAMI TIXS. FOR SALE 2 GA's, 4 STUDENT CALL 277-2638  1need MIAMI STUD. and am selling one AF ST. BRIAN 2131  DRUMMER -WAS GONNA PUT A POEM HERE, BUT I  
FRIDAY AT SOUTH DINING HALL. EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD. SEE CLAUDINE AT SOUTH DINING  pleworks word processor, blank data dis­ks. $950 or best offer. Call Brian at 283· 3481.  HELP! I NEED MIAMI TIX, STUDENT OR GA. MY FAMILY NEEDS A PLACE IN THE STANDS TO SEE ND BEAT  WILL TRADE 2 PSU GA'S plus $$$ FOR 2 MIAMI (ANY KIND) call FRANK 1534  MIAMI STUDENT TICKET FOR SALE! CALL 272-0389  THINK YOU READ IT FRIDAY NIGHT! I BET YOUR EVER INCREASING EGO WAS  
HALL.  CAN YOU BUY JEEPS, CARS, 4 X 4'S  MIAMI. CALL BRIDGET AT 284-5075  IMMEDIATELY ATTRACTED TO THAT  
Lost:pair of red glasses in burg. case wt blue dot pattern on Mon 1ot between cushing 2nd fl. and Farley hall. if you picked them up, please call Molly x3560  SEIZED IN DRUG RAIDS FOR UNDER $100.00? CALL FOR FACTS TODAY. 802-837·3401. EXT. 881. Hotel Room Available for MIAMI Weekend. Call Brendan x3598.  NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S. WILL PAY TOP$ # 1913 -JOHN Need as many AIR FORCE GA'S as pos­siblg. Will pay any price. Michelle at SMC­4395.  Need 1 Miami Stud Ticket Will pay GREAT $$ or mediocre SEX !I! call Liz x3278 NEED 5 AIR FORCE GAs WILL TRADE  FOR SALE­AIR FORCE STUDENT TICKET 284-4335  GREETING. 26 AUG. WAS THE BEST DAY OF MY LIFE! WHEN YOU FINALLY DECIDE TO COMMIT, COME BACK TO THE ONE WHO TRULY LOVES YOU-SHE'LL BE  
1980 DATSON 310GX COUPE, 5 SPEED CLEAN, GOOD MECHANICAL  MIAMI STUD TICKET FOR SALE I am  2 MIAMI GAs RICH x1662  WAITING. WITH ALL MY LOVE-GUESS WHO  
Whoever took the wrong white sport coat (with two presents in the pocket) at the McCandless SYR: Please call JonPaul at 1598 and  CONDITION, $995. 272-6477. Government Homes from $1.00. "U Repair". Also tax delinquent  a warm weather friend--.60' and higher. Call Brian at x3670 with your sunny forecast.  MIAMI stud for sale. Call x1437  PERSONALS  NEVER will you drink or dance me under the table. Just the same,  
return ij_ I have a white jacket that might be yours.  property. Call 805-644-9533, Ext. 1029 lor Info.  Will trade 4 A.F. GA for 4 MIAMI CALL 283·2238  (FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI & 1 AF STUD.­Leave BEST Offer at 272-1788.)  GLEMBY INTERNATIONAL IS LOOKING FOR MODELS!  good luck with your hell week. The Lewis "Mercedes Killer"  
....  Lost: black jean jacket, HY.l rm. 217 O'Shag, it's cold so please return. Chris x2725 PLEASE HELP ME !!!!!!!  """"FOR SALE"""" 1978 IMPALA WAGON GC,PW,PS,PB: BO OR $800 CALL 283-3405 """FOR SALE""""" UNITED AIRLINES FLIGHT VOUCHER  I NEED PENN STATE TIX. SELLING AIR FORCE TIX. PLEASE CALL DIANE X2147 Need 2 Penn State Tix(prefer stu­dent)Will pay$$! Call Rich at 3317.  2 AF GA's for sale call 271-9059 SELLING 1 MIAMI GA;X4201 AFTER 10PM  1988 Fall Fashion Pevlew with Scott Cole of London Both Male and Female models needed. short-long hair SEPTEMBER 26TH AND OCTOBER 17TH All Cuts done FREE-the latest las­ WHO AM I, THIS TWISTED SOUL BENT ON MURDER??  
I lost a silver watch probably be hind St. Edwards Hall. If you found ij, please call Jim at x-1561.  GOOD ANYWHERE IN US B0 OVER $200 CALL 283-3405  in dire straits-need 3 Air Force GA name your price. call Tom at 1596  I HAVE YOUR WIFE AND KIDS. ALSO YOUR MIAMI TICKET!!$$$; 3691.DAC.  hlonsl II Interested call Deb or Marie 272-7412  ON OCTOBER 28th, YOU DECIDE ...  
GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE!!!!  
If I'm not in, please leave a message. Thank you.  must sale 1980 datsan some rust Call 232-5762.  I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S, AND 2 MIAMI STUDS. X1604 CHRISSY  I NEED MIAMI STUDENT TIXI!I KRISTEN X1298  N.D. CANDY Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White  LESLIE,  
Taffy $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check  HEY CHIC!!  
LOST! BLUE EASTMAN BACKPACK last seen in the south dining hall at lunch on 1<YI2. Call 3113, ask for Peter. REWARD!  For Sale: 2 Miami Stud Tix and 1 Air Force Stud. CHEAP. Call x4666  2 Miami Stud for sale best offer by Thursday call 2036 or 4456 Need Miami G.A. Tickets. Big Bucks. Call Joe at 287-4561 alter 6p.m.  YOU WANT THEM I I'VE GOT THEM! I've got two student tickets for the Miami gamer Best offer by Thursday. Call 2158  to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA 90037. 213-741· 1338. Scott (St. Ed's) Happy 18th on the 16th Love  HAPPY BIRTHDAY (A LITTLE EARLY)l LOVE VA, SUSIE JIMBO  
•  FOR RENT  1980 HONDA CM400E. EXCELLENT CONDITION. MANY EXTRAS. $650 WILL NEGOTIATE. 289-3088.  I need 2 tix for USC Also 1 Air Force stud for sale Jim 3371  NEED 1 MIAMI TIX WILL PAY$$ &OR TRADE FOR 1 VAN HALEN TIX CALL ANN x4983  Mom, Dad, Steve & Ami The truth is, the Miami Hurricanes don't blow, THEY --Your Friends From  F6HAPPY SWEETEST DAYII F6(1F YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT IT IS F6REFER TO SUSIE'S HANDBOOK) LOVE VA, SUE  
U. of Fla. & TAC  
miami stud ticket-best offer air  You WANT to sell ME your Miami Tix  
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219­291·7153.  force stud ticket-face value 289-2527  Will pay BIG $$$$ for 2 Miami GA's Call MONTE at 283-1577  FOR SALE OR TRADE BY Fri: 2 MIAMI GAs x1333 CALL Pam  HELPII need a ride to Pittsburgh on Oct. 15 ASAP following the Miami game. Will share expenses. Mike x4141  see CLASS, page 17  


Weekend Edition, October 13-15, 1988 The Observer page 17 
M1ami Student ticket for sale: HAPPY BIRTHDAY JOSEF! BRAD DRAWER 
I HAVE 1 STUDENT AF TICKET FOR JUNIORS
Class 
Call Doug at 1598 WE LOVE YOU-ANNIE AND ANNA JUST LIKE I PROMISEDII 
SALE OOGBOOK PICTURES ARE STILL
YOU'RE FINALLY 211 
TAKE CARE OF YOURSELF! 

CHEAP-54n BEING TAKENII
continued from page 16 F6YOU NEVER LEAVE NOTRE DAME TODAY 
BERNIE SHILTS BERNIE SHILTS BERNIE SHILTS 
NOBODY PUTS BABY SHILTS IN THE CORNER!! 
'CAUSE SHE'S 21 TODAY!! 

YOUR DAY HAS FINALLY ARRIVED BERNIE!! YESTERDAY YOU WERE A MERE 27 YEARS OLD..• TODAY YOU'RE 2111 
CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING 

DANCE AND PARTY! FRIDAY after prep rally STEPHAN CENTER 6:30pm 
CLUB 23 Deep dlah plzu and dolly opeclalo. Groupo -ICOIIMI. 
CLUB 23 744 N. Notre Dame Ave. Stop by alter the gom• lor dinner or drlnka. CLUB 23 234·3541 
Need ride to Okla.or anywhere close for Fall Break.W1II help with gas and driving.Can leave or return any11me. Brad 4133. 
I LOST A GOLD BANGLE BRACELET AT THE SOPHOMORE FORMAL OR BEFORE IT GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE AND A $GREAT REWARDS PLEASE CALL ASHLEY N 2799 331 LYONS 
Happy Birthday Mom. 
We've got good news and bad news. The bad news IS that we didn't get you a preaent.The good news is that you're gen1ng something bener. us home on break 
Love Tom and Dav1d 

TO THE JENNINGS FROM JERSEY HAPPY 25TH ANNIVERSARY LOVE MICHAEL, MAUREEN, MATTHEW POP-POP, GABA, MUNCHKIN MISSY, MUFFIN, MISCHIEF AND OOPS! 
RIDERS NEEDED TO DETROIT AREA. 284­5089.KELLEN. 
MIAMI STUDENT TICKET FOR SALE CALL CRAIG AT 1104 AIRFORCE STUDENT TICKET FOR SALE. CALL JIM AT 1187 
ELIZABETH Have a great birthday! I love ya, Wendy 
I need a ride from Mpi..SI. Paul back to school on 10123. Please cal 284-4430. 
COMING SOON TO AN ICE ARENA NEAR YOU..ND HOCKEY VS. ALASKA· ANCHORAGE TUESDAY, OCT 25. 
JELLOI JELLOI JELLOI JELLOI JELLOI KAREN STOHR does jello 50 days in a row. Congrats and thanks for making the 4th lloor Badin jello and twister party possible! 
Karen H. HAVE A GREAT B-DAY, MY LITTLE SANTA CLAUS! WE CAN CELEBRATE OUR ADULT­HOOD WHEN I RETURN FROM CA.-­Dirty 
WANTED: BARBER OR HAIRSTYLIST FOR VITO'S BARBER SHOP. CALL 233-4767. 
Lonely Girl, I really am sorry abou last Wednesday. If you can, please call me tonight after 8:00 at 1793. Ask for Paul. 
••••• DUKAKIS·BENSTEN 1988 ••••• 
There will be an Important meeting tonight, 1(}"13-88, at 6:30pm in 116 O'Shag.Piease make every effort to anend. Problems call Mark x11n 
Senor Lopez says.................. "All Hail the Sec. of Rippednessl!" What's up with that? 
BRUDOGII Be Sure To Wear Your Lucky Bikinis This Weekend!! Remember--Vengeance is MINE Sayeth It 4711 Love, Your Twin, Appelizer,the Meal and the Dessert!! 
MY CONCERNED CITIZEN THANKS FOR MY ROSEl PLEASE 
SHOW YOURSELF, A FILET MIGNON AWAITS YOU -K.C. 
HAPPY 18th BIRTHDAY( 
MICHELLEII( 
F6From your roomies( 
Amy, Kathy, and Cathy( 
PASSING THRU CHESTER SPA PA ON THE 20th? STOP AND WISH MEGAN McGARRY A HAPPY 18th. SHOW COMPASSION,SHE HAS NO FRIENDS. NOT "JUST KIDDING" 
JEN, 
The NO Scholar isn't quite the girl she used to be.Since our first "official" weekend in our favorite guy's dorm, we have experienced man 
WEDDING WEEK IS COMING OCT. 25 ENGAGEMENT PARTY AT SENIOR CLUB OCT. 26 BACHELORETTE PARTY OCT. 27 BACHELOR PARTY 
OCT. 28 REHEARSAL DINNER AT JEREMIAH SWEENEY'S OCT. 29 WEDDINGLESS RECEP­TIONIII 
................................................................ 
Rejected in Sl. Eds, (whoever you are) I'm glad I said 'no'-I only date guys with class. 
Sharon V. 
1ST FLOOR BP & EVERYONE ELSE­YOU'RE THE GREATEST! THANKS FOR MAKING MY 21ST THE BEST BIRTHDAY EVER! 
LOVE, KAREN 
GO BLITZ! 
WOMEN OF NO AVOID THE RUSH HATE VASE NOW 
HELPIII I NEED 2 AIR FORCE GAs CALL JOHN x3367 
FBSHE JUST LOANS YOU OUT F6TO THE WORLD MMM( 
BARB-CONCEPTUALLY. PSYCHOTIC WALL AND FINGER DANCING HAVE TO CEASE 
UNTIL AFTER BREAK. HERE'S TO GREAT SNAKE AND THE BEST ROOMIE EVER. WE HAVE NO SCRUPLES! KATH 
H.R. 
You are definitely an unstereo typical SMiC CHICK. Have a nice break, but take ALL ol your books home so I can see you after. 
D.(D)N.E. 
2 MIAMI GA'S 4 SALE!! X3201 LV 80 
new things. Including: Kamikazes, fruit punch, 2-T Man, and "Sweet Child o' Mine". We are all going to get out of control tomorrow inhonor of your birthday. BUT WAIT!! Who is going to MOM?I?I 
HAPPY 18th BIRTHDAY DUDE! Love your Buddies 
Is anyone still selling Miami shirts? I need one. call 4987 
HAPPY 21st DAWN Remember, Don't Worry. Be Happy. T. 
HEIDI HRASTNIK HERE'S TO AN AWESOME 20TH BIRTHDAY! WE LOVE YOU-MEG & ANNETTE 
DAN "KING" FAHEY, THE SOON-TO-BE YOUNGEST CAMPUS MONARCH IN HISTORY, WILL BE 20 NEXT WEEK, BUT IS NOW ACCEPTING BIDS FOR FUTURE RALLY DATES AFTER BREAK. SEE HIS AGENT DAVE BROCKWAY FOR AN APPOINT­MENT. 
A perplexng question???? Where are we going to find a new set of field goal posts for the Air Force Game???? 
K.C. 
Good luck Tony and NO Baseball!!! Go Irish beat Miami, love Annie 

GENO HAPPY ANNIVERSARY ON THE 16TH. THE PAST 5 YEARS HAVE BEEN THE GREATEST ALL SC I HAVE HAD YOU TO SHARE THEM WITH... I LOVE YOU MUGHO MAZIE 
How many pyschology grads does it take to have a happy birthday? 
WE LOVE YOU EILEEN! Beth, Christy, Margaret, Keith, Susan 
MARGARET SHANE TURNS 19 ON OCTOBER 1711 (But the party starts tonight!) Maybe this time we'll remember to 
buy the mix. II you forget everything else this weekend, just remember to only eat ORAL M&M'SIII Love, Julie and Georgie!!! 
HAPPY B-DAY LIZ-AYilt all started on the PE Packers, Dude! Maybe now thai you're 20 you can answer the ever puzzling question-just what does happen to us after midnight? Live it up on Saturday! Love, Kim 
COLLEEN "muttley" KRENZER, 
I know when your birthday is, but this is to let everyone else know that you turn 20 on Oct. 18th. HAPPY BIRTHDAY COLLEEN 
Shep 

It's not just a game. It's more than a war. It's a crusade. BEAT MIAMI. BEAT MIAMI. 
To my Bambi Killer: 

I've missed your stares behind your dark glasses in the Huddle at lunch. 
Love, your stump with the purple backpack. 
Shannon W. you make my heart go pitter-pat but I cannot tell you that... 
4:30-8:30 PM 
ROOOM 002-003 LA FORTUNE MAKE A NEW NAME FOR YOURSELFII PICTURE TAKING IS FREEl 
.......................................................... 
HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY. BILLY JONES (POOTY)I ROCK ON, GET RASPY! LOVE. KATIE 
................................................................ 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, BABY ROOMIE (THAT'S YOUR NAME, ISN'T IT, BABY?I) 
................................................................ 
Happy ij-day Bernie Meet me at the Bus stop at 9:00 a.m. lor your B-day surprise. 
Love your Little Shroom 
To Joey B. Wishing you a happy 20th! From a cali girt 
WEDDING WEEK IS COMINGIII OCT. 23-29 
CONGRATS BIFF & MUFFYIII from the Cia•• of '88 
10-13 
10-13 
By now we all know just what this meansll Its Marisue Cook and Jell Heasley's 5th Anniversary! If you see MARISCHMOO today please wish her lhe best on her "self­proclaimed HOLIDAY!! 
ISMARKETING CLUB CHICAGO TRIP 
Thursday, October 27th Sign-ups outside Marketing OHice Questions?Details? Call Susan X4266 
MOHAWK MIAMI MOHAWK MIAMI MOHAWK MIAMI 
IT'S THE END OF THE WORLD AS I KNOW IT UNLESS I GET A MIAMI TICKET. CALL ANDREW ANYTIME AT X4259. 

WAOR AND SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS WELCOME 


Copies 

kinko·s·

after five the copy center 
When you need copies after 18187 State Road 23 hours, de~nd on Kinko's, tl1e 
271-G398 
copy center We're open late to seJVe you. 
••

•• i 88 'P,H 2 8 •WANTED: ••
• ~~ STUDENTS TO LIVE WITH 
• <i!:i§-~-=if"'"-rr
\ !=-1 l 

111!, ,.... FORMER PRISONERS • 11 
• I r'=-9-~~ • 
• 

I~ fq:;:;_:_ j} =---*************. 

: DiSMAS : 
• Contact e 
: f-J0 U.5e Kathy Royer (7862) : 
Center for Social Concerns
•• of at ••• 



: MiGtrtf\lH\ : 
: *************************** : 
•• 'A community of support, reconciliation, and adjustmenl, the •• wismas House of Michlana offers a unique opportunity lor Saint 
• \iar{s and Notre Dame students to share in a llfe-trnining • ~"penencc with former prisoners. Together an environment of • 
• ':osl friendship, and hope can b8 buill to provide the confidence 
...
• and courage necessary lor each to enter society as a valuable and • • intesral member." • 
• Tim Dempsey, Resident of Dlsmas House • 
page 18 

Baseball 
continued from page 28 

Murphy is quite a few years behind Fraser in terms of ex­perience, but he posted some impressive records of his own in his debut season at Notre Dame last year. 
The Irish set a school record in posting 39 wins, including a 16-game winning streak late in the season, as the Irish posted a best-ever 39-22 record. 
Notre Dame returns many of its top players, including shortstop Pat Pesavento and outfielder Dan Peltier. 
Pesavento, who turned down the Toronto Blue Jays after being drafted in the 11th round last spring, holds school records for career runs, hits and stolen bases. The shortstop from Lockport, Ill., currently working toward a master's degree in Science Administra­tion, compiled a .385 batting average last season with a school-record 38 stolen bases. 
Peltier moves from right field to centerfield this season after earning Academic All­America honors last year. He led the Irish last season with a .414 batting average, and the 

Dodgers 
continued from page 28 

previously has an NL team finished 15 games or more below .500 one season, and rallied to finish 20 games or more above .500 the next. The Dodgers were also 73-89 in 1986. Ironically, the Mets were 73­
89 in 1968 and went on to win 
the World Series in five games 
against Baltimore a year later. 
• In 1960, Cincinnati finished 67-87 and rallied to win the NL flag with a 93-61 record in 1961. Last season, Minnesota won the American League pennant and World Series after finish­ing 71-91 in 1986. 
Steve Sax, 12-for-40 lifetime 
against Darling, got the 
Dodgers started with a single 
and moved to third on Mickey 
Hatcher's double down the left­
field line. Kirk Gibson, 
hamstrung with a pulled left 
hamstring, then hit a scrifice 
fly to deep center field. 

The Mets and Darling self­
destructed in the Dodgers' big 
second inning. 


junior from Clifton Park, N.Y., also hit drove in 70 runs. Peltier also set a school record with 21 doubles last year. 
Notre Dame figures to start a pair of freshmen this year. Joe Binkiewicz of Wintersville, Ohio, figures to replace the graduated Tim Hutson at first base, and Craig Counsell of Whitefish Bay, Wis., will play left field. 
Other prospective Irish starters include catcher Ed Lund, second baseman Mike Moshier, third baseman Mike Coss and right fielder James Sass. Erik Madsen, Mike Pas­silla and Brian Piotrowicz. Mike Coffey replaces the graduated Mike Harmon as the short relief, and Tony Livorsi will work in long relief. 
Miami's returnees include three top-flight pitchers. Joe Grabe, a fifth-round selection by Oakland last spring, posted a 13-5 record with a 154-37 strikeout-walk ratio last season. Fellow righthander Greg Knowles earned fresh­man All-America honors last spring after recording a 9-2 record. Steve Tucker, a lefthander, had a 6-1 record with a 2.73 earned run average during the 1988 season. 
The Observer 
Outfielders Ray Noriega and Will Vespe also come back from last year's 52-14-1 team. Noriega batted .301 with 43 RBI and 19 stolen bases last season, while Vespe batted .297 with 39 RBI. Vespe also had a 5-1 record in occasional pitching stints. 
But the biggest name on this year's Hurricane squad may be a freshman. Alex Fernandez was drafted in the first round by the Milwaukee Brewers last spring after leading Miami Pace High to a state champi­onship. The righthander, who had a 47-4 career record with 601 strikeouts while during his high school days, turned down Milwaukee's offer to play for Miami. 
First baseman-designated hitter Jorge Fabregas is an­other freshman Hurricane playing in his hometown. Fabregas was drafted in the lOth round by Cleveland after batting .400 for Miami Colum­bus High last spring. Junior shortstop F.P. Santangelo, who earned first-team junior col­lege All-America recognition while playing for Sacramento City College last season, is an­.other newcomer to the Hur­ricanes. 

Hey, I Said A Pitcher! 

[X]~ OOD~®@t? [M]@]~ 
Love, "Cheesmo" "The Woman" "Neen" "The Wimp" 
and Madeline 


Mike Sciascia and Jeff Hamilton led off with singles 
13est tJJaughter In 

and Darling misjudged Alfredo Griffin's bunt, allowing it to fall 
%e Wor{d.

in for a single to load the bases. 
-


uNITED STATES 
CoNGRESSIOI'1AL DEBATE for 
Consider Ministry


3Ro DISTRICT INDIANA 
Thursday, October 27, 1988 
8:30pm Mono ram Room, Jo ce A.C.C. 

... 

Consider Ministry, 
Weekend Edition, October 13-15, 1988 

The Observer I File Photo 
Pitcher/outfielder Will Vespe and the Miami Hurricanes will Invade 
Stanley Coveleskl Stadium tonight and tomorrow night for a pair 
of games with the Notre Dame baseball team. 


PROCESS CONTROL OPPORTUNITIES 
-Instrumentation Engineers -Electrical Engineers -Metallurgical Engineers -Chemical Engineers -Computer Science -Computer Engineers 
The Process Automation Department a/Inland Steel is looking for quali· tied experienced individuals interested in working on the design, im· plementation and maintenance ofreal time process control systems as applied to industrial processes. Individuals with Bachelors or advanced degrees in the above disciplines with a minimum of2 years experience will be considered. These individuals will be expected to assume significant individual responsibility early in their careers. 
Experience with process control or computer equipment supplied by any of the companies listed below is highly desirable. 
Digital Equipment Corp.-VAX or PDP Allen Bradley Fisher Controls General Electric Rosemount Reliance Moor Products Westinghouse Honeywell 
Individuals with an interest in the development, implementation and maintenance of real time computer models of a chemical, metallurgical or mechanical nature are also desired. 
We offer competitive salaries and an excellent benefits package. Quali­fied applicants should submit resume and salary requirements. in confidence. to: 


The American Dream has always been one of promise. In lhe SO's promise has gi\'en way to promises. It is no longer impor· tant to achieve but only to possess what success can bring. The implied promise: "the more you get and spend the happier you will be" is an empty one. 
Suttess In life Isn't how much we can get but what kind of difference we can make In the lives of people. To be a priest, deacon, sister or brother in today"s world Is to touch the very heart of life, to enable people to grow into the fullness of who they are meant to be. 
Through Church ministry you experience the fullness of faith, hope, belonging and love. You carry Christ's message of good news. You reach out to those who are hurting. You stand for justice and mercy in a world that's not just a liuJe crazy. You realize you donl have to buy the mountain to climb iL The climb Is a tough one. One which will take faith and determination. 
The first step Is always the hardest; you should speak with someone who once was exactly where you are today. Someone who had the same doubts and fears. Someone who has been there. someone who wonl make any promises but who might help you ask the right questions. 
Rev. John Conley, esC Vocation Director Holy Cross Priests & Brothers 

PHONE: i219) 239-6385 Box 541 
Notre Dame. Ind. 

a dream worth living. 

Tlizabetfi-.9Lnne Crisp 

Personnel

Inland Steel Department 7-500 
a subsidiary of 3210 Watling Street Inland Steel Industries, Inc. East Chicago, IN 46312 



,-~~----------------~----··---~-----­
Weekend Edition, October 13·15, 1988 The Observer page 19 


ND soccer finally back home 
Irish face DePaul after suffering year's 1st loss at Akron 
By CHRIS FILLIO Akron, that is the last thing we in goals-against average with Sports Writer can do. We have to recognize an even 1.00. A two-year All­
·----·_... 
~ that DePaul had a good recruit­State selection out of high 
Today the Notre Dame soc­ing year, and they have some school, Lyons really came on cer team will attempt to get great talent. They could very as a sophomore and since then back on track as they face the easily beat us." has been the Irish ironman on DePaul Blue Demons at Moose The Blue Demons may very defense. Krause Stadium. well be better than their season "Right now, Danny Lyons 
The Irish (10-1-2) are coming record (2-8-2) indicates. A vic­has as much if not more ability off their first loss of the year, tory over Notre Dame could be than any goalie I've seen," said dealt to them by the Akron Zips the sweetest one this year for Grace. "I wouldn't trade him last Sunday in a tightly con­DePaul second-year head co­for any other goalkeeper in the tested overtime game. ach Dan Coughlin. The name country." 
As has been the case in the should ring a bell for Irish soc­Indeed, Lyons has turned last few weeks, the Irish are cer fans. Coughlin is an '85 some games around for the hard-pressed to post tallies in graduate of Notre Dame and Irish this season. Lyons was the win column as they search earned three monograms while key in the Irish win over for their first-ever NCAA tending goal for the Irish. Detroit and held the Zips in playoff berth. In light of this, For Coughlin, one point of check after spotting them two every game becomes a crucial concern with the Irish is appro­early goals, only to be felled by one for the Irish. priately the recent stellar per­a perfectly-placed direct kick 
"We can't afford to look past formance of Irish goalkeeper with eight minutes left in over­DeP:ml," said Irish head soc­Danny Lyons. The Albuquer­time. cer coach Dennis Grace. que, N.M., native is currently "I think that the whole team "After coming off the loss to fifth in the Great Lakes Region feels pretty confident," said 
Lyons. "The entire defense has been playing well. After the Ak­ron game, we're looking for a big win. It's really important that we beat DePaul." 
While the team's health has sagged, Lyons has escaped the injury-bug for the most part. And in regards to DePaul's hopes of a pivotal upset against Notre Dame, the Irish see things differently. 
"The NCAA is really going to be looking at goals scored and shutouts, so it's important that we try to get four or five goals against DePaul and work for the shutout." 
The game's scheduled kick­off is 7:00 p.m. at Moose Krause Stadium. 

Happy Belated 19th birthday Jim Bo 
Love, Mom, Dad, Mike, Angie, Gordy and Suzy too. 



ameWeeke Prime Rib Buffet 
OR 

Regular Menu 
Open at 4:00 P.M. c Friday and Saturday 
Oft. 

O..f Of \"Of\~1he River -Reset'1° \ 
The DePaul University Professional Master of Sctence in Accountancy Program 
1989 Liberal Arts and Sciences Graduates: 
r1 sjH'tial awwlllltf'ment co11ceming mm'l\ i11 bwiw'ss sjH'tifimlly fhr I.iheml A11s r111d Scie11ces students. 
!'he School ol :\ccountaiJC\" of DePaul The 15-month program entails: l"••in·rsit\, Chicag-o. Illinois. a 77>­• immediate (June l9t\9) employment vear leader in innm·atin· accounting­
in the Chicago office of a sponsoring accounting firm.

education. offers to selected graduates 
• an accelerated course of studv inof prestig-ious Liberal .-\ rts and business and accounting-a growthSciences programs the Professional industrv-at Chicago's DePaulMaster of Science in :\ccountann·. 

l 1ni,·ersitv.

The program is offered in wnjuiH"tion 
Successful completion of the DePaul 

with the nation's leading-accounting 
PMSA Program results in: firms. is highlv competiti,·e. and • .\ Master of Science in Accountancv restricted to students sponsored 1)\· degree from the Graduate School <;f the participating accounting firms. Business of DePaul UniversitY 
• Full-time business and accou;HingThe I'MSA Program begins the week experience with a m~jor accountingof .June 1~1. 19H9. Recruiting f<11· the firm 

program is currcnth in progress. 
• 
Eligibility to sit f(n· the CPA Examina­tion in Illinois 

• 
Broad career opportunities, and advancement, in professional account­ing with vour sponsoring firm. 










DEPAUL 
UNIVERSITY 

For more inf(mllation on the PMSA Program. contact the placement office on this campus, which is cooperating with this program. or Dr. John T. Ahern, Jr., Director, School of Accountancv, DePaul Llniversitv, 25 E. Jackson, Chicago, Illinois 60604, (:H2) :\.,tl-H770. 

The Observer Weekend Edition, October 13-15, 1988
page 20 

Get an autograph from one of Rockne's boys, some of LeahyS lads, and awinning combination of writers... 

Come and meet living legends of Notre Dame football! These football greats will be part of a special autograph session featuring two new books: Knute Rockne: His Life and Legend and Many Autumns Ago: The Frank Leahy Era at Boston College and Notre Dame. The autograph session will take place outside the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
Here's the line.. up: 
MIKE BYNUM 
Co-editor of Knute Rockne: His Life and Legend and editor of Many Autumns Agp. 

JERRY GROOM 
Two-year all-America player in 1949 and 1950. 
EDWARD "MOOSE" KRAUSE 
Notre Dame's Athletic Director Emeritus. 


JOHNNY LUJACK 

Notre Dame's 194 7 Heisman Trophy winner. 

CREIGHTON MILLER 
All-America halfback on 1943 National Championship Team. 

BOB QUAKENBUSH 

Co-editor of Knute Rockne: His Life and Legend and author of The Gipper's Ghost. 

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 15 
10:00 a.m... 11:30 a.m. 

FREE "KNUTE ROCKNE" POSTER WITH EACH BOOK PURCHASE! 
Weekend Edition, October 13-15, 1988 The Observer page 21 
Bremner, Irish to meet ranked foes on trip West 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
She's addicted. Freshman setter Julie Bremner just can't get enough volleyball. 
She puts in at least three hours a day with the Notre Dame women's volleyball team, an extra hour or more before and after practice and even comes in Tuesdays and Thursdays with junior Kathy Cunningham to work a little more. 
So one would think that when game time rolls around, Brem­ner would be pleased with the results. But being good isn't good enough. 
"I just can't go in there and be mediocre," said Bremner. "If I don't give 100 percent, I feel guilty. I just try to keep on pushing myself to get better." 
Champaign/Urbana Chicago (Midway) Cleveland Columbus Dallas!Ft Worth Denver Des Moines Dubuque Ft Lauderdale FlMyers Green Bay Jacksonville 

It is this willingness to spend long hours on the court honing her skills that has allowed Bremner to step into a starting position in her first season with the Irish and perhaps help the team break into the national top 20 for the first time ever. 
As Notre Dame's newest blue (and gold) collar worker, Bremner has been silent but deadly thus far in the season, both offensively and defensive­ly. 
She has already tallied 573 assists for a .388 setting percentage and has utilized timing and placement to set up the Irish hitters one-on-one against their blocking oppo­nents whenever possible. 
Bremner also has an usually high number of digs, 145, which is second highest .on the team 
behind senior Whitney Shew­
man. 
This statistic is startling be­
cause traditionally, the setter 
takes the second and not the 
first ball over the net. Yet 
Bremner often picks up the op­
ponent's attack to get the Irish 
offense rolling. 
Bremner's play has not been limited to these duties alone, though. 
She has tallied 55 total blocks for the Irish to help seniors Mary Kay Waller, Maureen Shea and Zanette Bennett pa­trol the net. 
And Bremner has also 
stepped in to register 47 kills 
for a .293 hitting percentage, to 
make herself a threat when 
she's not threading the needle 
for her teammates. 
But this versatile play hasn't 
quenched Bremner's thirst to 
improve. 


Physics equations and Freudian principles are nice, but if you really want to get somewhere, call Midway Airlines~ 
Midway can take you home or on vacation on an inexpensive and convenient flight. Just hop the Midway Connection<~~> to Chicago Midway Airport and connect to over 50 U.S. cities, plus the Bahamas and Virgin Islands. 
So study the above information.Then call Midway at 1-800-621-5700, or call a travel agent. 

elite volleyball club called Sports Performance. 
She chose to practice with the club for four hours, plus an ex­tra one or two hours on her own, each day instead of maintain­ing the normal life of a high school student. 
"Sports Performrnce was the best thing I ever did," said Bremner. "I haven't encoun­tered a single situation that I haven't been prepared for in Sports Performance. When you see the play developing you know you've been there before, so it's made college an easy ad­justment." 
Bremner would eventually like to use the skills and expe­rience she gained at Sports Performance and here at Notre Dame to earn herself a spot on the United States national team, but for now that goal takes a back seat to more im­portant things. 
"I would love to play on the Olympic tean," said Bremner, "but I don't think about that right now. I just worry about the team for now and winning games." 
She cites her teammates as a major reason for her success and insists there is no substi­tute for hard work. 
"I play with the greatest bunch of young ladies," said 
Bremner. "They keep me going and never let me forget that the only way to get anywhere in life is by hard work. I know that you have to make opportunities for yourself--to be your own opportunity--and that always makes me work harder." 
Bremner and her Irish team­mates will need to keep this work ethic alive during Octo­ber break as they head into a 

challenging  four-match  
road trip.  
The  Irish  will  face  15th­ 

ranked Pacific first on Oct. 18 and then 12th-ranked San Jose State on Oct. 19. 
Pacific has consistently been a national powerhouse and is led by two-time All American and 1985 Conference Player of the Year Elaina Oden. 
The Irish won't even get a day break before facing San Jose State, so they will have to be ready to deal with seniors Kari Roberson and Kim Hicks, both middle blockers. 
Two days after taking on two of the west coast's best, the Irish will return to the Midwest to face two Big Ten teams, Min­nesota and Iowa on Oct. 21 and 22 before·heading back to the friendly confines of the JACC for three matches on their home court. 

SaturdayNight Worship & Praise A CHRISTIAN CONTEMPORARY WORSHIP SERVICE ON SATURDAY NIGHT 6:00PM Nursery Provided 
*Especially for University Students *Biblical Preaching *Social Interaction *Free Pizza Aug. 27 
Bible Teacher-Marcus Warner Pastor of University Outreach 
STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT BUFFALO 

Dr. William C. Barba Assistant Vice Provost 
will be on campus to meet with students interested in Graduate Studies at New York State's largest public university. 
... Monday, October 24, 1988 9:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. 
Call Career Services, 239-5200, for an 

-··­

~-----~ ~­
page 22 The Observer 
Carney  Lansford  of the  Oakland  A's  makes  a the World Series from newly-crowned National  
diving  stop  against  Boston  In  the  American  League champs, the L. A. Dodgers. A story on  
League Championship Series. The A's are on a  the A's appears below.  
mission led by manager Tony LaRussa to take  


A's not satisfied with AL title 
Sweep gives LaRussa extra time to prepare for Series 



UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY 
"THE BIGGEST AND THE BEST" 

OPEN IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING MIAMI GAME*** (OPEN DURING BREAK, TOO!) ***OPEN UNTIL 3AM FRIDAY/SATURDAY 
CATERING FOR TAILGATERS & SYRs OWNER--MATT HIGHBARGER NO '89 


l -------------11---------------·------------­
50 CENTS OFF I $1.00 OFF I $2.00 OFF I
I ANY QUARTER SHEET OF PIZZA I ANY HALF SHEET OF PIZZA I ANY FULL SHEET OF PIZZA I 

AP Photo 
Associated Press 

OAKLAND -One look at the dark, fiery eyes of Tony La Russa or a view of the Oakland Athletics' workout is enough to wipe out any notion the Amer­ican League champs are set­tling into smugness before the World Series. 
No team in 19 years of major league playoffs has had five days off before the start of the World Series -five days to get bloated with self-satisfaction and stale on the field. 
The Athletics worked out for the second straight day Wed­nesday, determined to keep the edge that enabled them to win eight of 11 after they clinched the division title Sept. 19, then 
swept  the  Red  Sox  in  four  
straight.  
• The  team  is  relaxed  and  

loose. No one is pressing or looking anxious. But there is no mistaking the determination to 
............................................................. 
complete the goal La Russa and the players set early in the season: to win the World Series and not just the division or pen­nant. 
Or, as La Russa describes it, to negotiate the final side of "the pyramid." 
La Russa never let this team ease up, not when it won 14 straight and 18 of 19 early in the season and not when it was breezing to the AL west cham­pionship. 
His players maintain the same focus on winning the World Series and proving they are the best in baseball. 
The champagne party after the victory over Boston was brief and somewhat restrained. Jose Canseco had a few sips of bubbly and declined another round. Carney Lansford sat by his locker, ut­terly happy but holding back a little. 
"I can remember winning a 
[[JffiJJ)f]J)J 
ill0ill9]]]Wffi)J I 
Love, Mom, Dino, Hezzie, Lovytar and Froggienoffin too 
division title with the '79 (California) Angels," said Lansford. "We were so satisfied with that, we died in the playoffs (against the Bal­timore Orioles) . 
"This year, nobody has said anything about being satisfied. That includes right now. We still have a job to do." 
Canseco is working out this week as if he still had a lot to prove, despite his three homers in the playoffs, 42 during the season and 40 stolen bases. 



A .. 
Michigan National Bank 
EEO/AA Employer 

I (LARGER THAN A 12" ROUND PIZZA) I (LARGER THAN A 16" ROUND PIZZA) I (LARGER THAN TWO 16" ROUND PIZZAS) I 
I FREE DELIVERY I FREE DELIVERY I FREE DELIVERY I
• 
I 277-8889 I 277-8889 I 277-8889 
I 
I UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY exp 1CY23-88II UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY exp 1CY23-88 J UNIVERSITY PIZZA DELIVERY exp 1CY23-881 
118055 ST RD 23 18055 ST RO 23 .118055 ST RD. 23 I 
~-------------·----------------------------­

Weekend Edition, October 13-15, 1988 
The Observer page 23 

Florida papers are covermg support of the team, and
Game 
the student sentiment so much today's Observer features a that Miami quarterback Steve similar letter from the Notre
continued from page 28 
Walsh already has prepared a Dame tri-captains. That 
At least one report confirm., defense for what has been doesn't happen every day. that writers from The Hur­portrayed in Miami as a some­Dan Jarisen at the pep rally, ricane, Miami's student news­what hostile Irish crowd. a midnight basketball scrim­paper, have been calling Notre mage, a CBS Sports seminar, Dame students on the tele-"I'm going to make sure I Whole Health dinner in the phone to get some dirt on how keep my helmet on," Walsh dining halls ...well, OK, skip the campus feels about the said Tuesday. "I don't want to that last one. Miami football team. You can get hit in the head with any 
bet that story will appear in oranges." The point is, mid-term exams print before the team flies to Irish head coach Lou Holtz or not, a week like this comes Notre Dame for the game, if it wrote a letter to the student along once in a lifetime. This doesn't find its way into a few body that appeared in The Ob-might be the most important Miami lockers on game da~. server last week, urging classy football game, perhaps the 
.. --------------.. most important sporting event, 
you'll ever see.I OPENING SOON I That's not hype. It's the 
I truth.I But you'll still have a hard ~~ (rLlr[jlfa\&(rLlrn9~ ~~ time convincing Ellis of that. 
~~ ~ "Hey, we're not worried about them or their crowd," El­l I lis said. "We thrive on that at-South Bend's Newest Restaurant I mosphere. They say Notre1 Dame is America's collegeI I football team? I think we're 
Now accepting applications for: cooks, I America's team."
I 
busers, servers, etc. Benefits, paid 
II vacations, OfotipsPart time 8-20 hours
I 
Full time 40 hours or more 
1 1 By RICK CONDON mind the front-running label. known, are undefeated at this Apply from 1-7, Monday-Friday sports Writer "It doesn't bother us," said point,afarcryfromlastyear'sI I Marshall. "We're kind of cocky 1-5 record. In fact, this is only "ery close to campus 1 Although regular season and want people to come after Carroll's third year in Interhall
I V' games still remain for several us." SQCCer play.I phone 277-7678 I Inter hall soccer teams, playoff The Hoobers dominated the Other teams appeared 
I spots are all but set heading tough South American division headed for postseason actionI into fall break. this year, outscoring their op-include Flanner A, StanfordI S.R.23 I Five of the eight possible ponents 26-1. Marshall credits Al, and Keenen who is enjoying 
~ g I slots are filled and the Off-field players Mike Johnson and a great season under the direc-I ~· ~ Campus Hoobers, last year's Jim McKeon with holding the tion of Pat McClanahan.I ::J 2046 S.R.23 -e §. 1 champions, are once again the team together on defense. McClanahan points to a 4-3 
I heavy favorites. Coach Pat Mike Mahelick, coach of the overtime victory over NorthI Marshall, also the goalkeeper Dillon Big Red who were early American division rivals Flan­
• _________________.. for the team, does not seem to losers to the Hoobers, also likes ner A as the turning point, and his team's chances. cites keeper Mike Peeney and "I think we can do some striker John McConville as key damage in the playoffs," he contributors this season. said. The last two places to be The surprise team of the year decided involve three teams is Carroll, led by their coach, battling for second place in Chris Fillio, and leading both the European and Western scorer, Mark Heilman. Heil-European divisions. Critical man recently scored two goals, games between the Off­including the game winner, Campus Spleiphs and Zahm A2 late in the second half as Car-and between Stanford A and roll came from behind to defeat Alumni still remain and will 
Dillon BMF 4-3. decide the fate of those teams L'equipe Vermin, as they are still in contention. 
.. 


r 
I 
f ! 
i I 
I 
I , 
,. 

Weekend Edition, October 13-15, 1988 
Oct. 13, 7:00 Oct. 14, 8:30 
MIAMI 



Stanley Coveleski Regional Stadium Tickets Still Available Coveleski Box Office, JACC Box Office 
$4 box $3 GA adult $2 student · Blue & Gold Cards Accepted United Limo will provide continuous shuttle service from Stepan Center beginning at 8:00 Frida to and from the game. 
1 
Weekend Edition, October 13-15, 1988 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Cavanaugh Hall spoiled Alumni's bid for a perfect record by knocking off the Dogs 7-0 in men's lnterhall football action Wednesday night. Dustin Klinger returned an interception 40 yards for the game's only touchdown as Cavanaugh won its first game in two years. -The Observer 
The pep rally for Saturday's Notre Dame-Miami football game will be Friday at 7 p.m. on the Stepan courts. In case of inclement weather, the pep rally will be held at the Joyce ACC in the fieldhouse. -The Observer 
The SMC track team will hold a meeting at 8 p.m. on Thursday, Oct. 27, at Angela Athletic Facility for any students interested in varsity track. -The Observer 
The NO Water Polo Club begins practice the Monday after fall break from 8:30 to 10:30 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Proof of insurance is required before anyone can get into the water. Any questions should be directed to Jay Blount at x2303. -The Observer 
t., "I was very pleased withThe Rolfs Aquatic Center has released its fall break , everyone's performances,"schedule. The pool will be open from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. on said Head Coach Deb Laverie. 
Friday, will be closed on Saturday, will be open from 1 p.m. 
"I was interested with how in­
to 5 p.m. on Sunday and from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. from Monday tensely they went out and beat to Friday. The pool will be closed on Saturday, Oct. 22, then them. It was good to see the l will be open from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. the following day. -The spark in them after last week's 
Observer 
loss." Sophomore Michelle Chaney The Rockne Memorial fall break swimming schedule got some playing time as she has the pool open from 7:30 a.m. to 9 a.m. and from 11:30 moved up into the lineup for a.m. to 6 p.m. on Friday. The pool will be closed on Saturday both singles and doubles play.
and Sunday, then will be open from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. from "She is a very dedicated
n

Monday to Friday. The pool will be closed on Saturday, Oct. 
1-... , player and has always played 
22 and on Sunday, Oct. 23. -The Observer 
~ hard," said Laverie. "I was 
_ ·---~ very happy with her achieve-The Observer I File Photo ments."
~·················· 
: See Kujo grin ... Charlene Szjako moved up to 
Centertlelder Dan Peltier and the rest of the Irish baseball team are the number one position to fill
: See Kujo chug ... gearing up for "the battle before the war", the upcoming series of in for Jen Block who is still out games against the Miami Hurricanes at Coveleski Stadium. of action. Szjako turned in a
: See Kujo fall! 
good performance, defeating
* 
her opponent 6-2, 6-2. Szjako's
* The "Smilin' Turtle"
* 
performance reflected her out­

* 
is now "21" and standing 11-0 season-end statis­

* 
tics where she did not lose a

* 
he's ready for your match in the number two spot.


*
* challenge. Take on Her only losses were handed to her during some of her matches 
*
* the Kuj to a game at the number one position.
*
* of your choice at Block, who missed a few matches, finished well with a
*
* Senior Bar. Just 14-3 record. 
** look for that sly The best overall statistics at the season's end were from
* Don't drink and drive
: Kujawa grin! sophomore Sarah Mayer who
A public service message from The Observer 

lost only one match for a 18-1 
record.
t••··············· 



r·········c···a····a····L·············!. E~~~~r~{;fg~:;.~;riBIHRATPHPDYAY 
* 
~ when you put her on the court

* 
pUT : with people who are at a higher






;: NAM 
*,._1 BRIAN skill level, she is bound to win 
~ ~ because she's more dedi­cated."
AMER

* Freshman Marie Koscielski
; If you lose your car ~ also with 18-1
finished an ...,.. ...,.. record for her play at the num­
* • C II S •t : F M 0 d ber five position.
: aga1n, a ecur1 y; :+ rom Om, a ' As the Belles enjoy the 
* maybe it was stolen * season, will look 
* * Eileen and Kevin memories of their excellent they now : : ahead to the District tourna­
* { h • • * 8 EAT ment held this weekend in An­
~ t IS tlme) : "Stanford Stud" Amer with MIAMI'·'· derson. Their goal, of course, 
~ * a Miami Hurricane is to win and qualify for Nation­
ll~•::•~·~·~·~·~•:.:•~·~·~•;•::•~·~·~·~•:•~·~·~·~•:•:;:•~•~•~•~•~•;•~•:•~·~.,.=~·=====---~r.======~~~ 
als in May . 
•.•• .....,..... ·-:::::::;1
.....w .-w.....-w.
Burns Creative Costume 
ATTENTION BSN
&.. Party Rentals 


CLASS OF 1989.
332 W. Mishawaka Ave., Mishawaka 
(corner of Mishawaka Ave. & Liberty Dr.) 
The Air Force has a special pro­gram for 1989 BSNs. If selected, you con enter active duty soon after graduation-without waiting for the results of your State Boards. To qualify, you must hove on overall 
2. 75 GPA. After commissioning,
-ON SALE--FOR RENT-
you'll attend a five-month intern­
•Masks •Costumes •Wigs •Fog Machines •Caskets 
ship at a major Air Force medical
•Decora!lons •Halloween •Spider Web Machines 


...
facility. Irs on excellent way to pre­Snow Cone, Popcorn Cassella Tapes •Costumes •Co!!on Candy, 
pare for the wide range of experi­
Machines
•wlstudent ID 

ences you'll hove serving your 
country as on Air Force nurse of­
(5% Discount Minimum s100) 
ficer. For more information, call FREE DELIVERY WITHIN CITY LIMITS 
MAJOR RE>SEMARIE DUFFY
Ovor 1000 Coslumn IR Slack
HOURS: -LOW PRICES­

317-848-5830 COLLECT
MON., TUES., WED., & FRI.
259-4807 
8·5 
THURS. 8·8


259-5009 
SAT. 8··1 



~­
Weekend Edition, October 13-15, 1988
page 2.6 The Observer 
t 
l 
' t ~ Irish on the run to USC Captains make plea 
October 12, 1988

Women's squad gearing up for MCC meet 
By MARY GARINO ready to help the team, al­face challenges. OPEN LETTER TO THE NOTRE DAME STUDENT BODY: 
Sports Writer though he doubts they will be "We're a lot more deter­fully recovered. mined and confident and it The next couple of weeks will Despite being impeded by in­shows," said Kibelstis. "We For most of us on the Notre Dame football team, our gamebe crunch time for the women's juries during the first half of know that we can run competi­Saturday against top-rated Miami will be the biggest thing 
cross country team as it the season, two senior mem­tively even against schools that's happened in our football careers. These are the games prepares for a dual meet with bers of the team agree that the with scholarship programs." 
we dreamed about playing in when we came to Notre Dame. 
USC on Oct. 22 and the Midwes­Irish have been generally run­tern Collegiate Conference ning better than last year. The coaches have been more 
The entire college football world will be watching Saturday,Championships on the 29th. "As a whole we've obviously respectful of the talent on the and we hope that visitors, fans and others who haven't been This will be an important per­improved," said captain team this year, according the exposed to Notre Dame will gain an appreciation for what iod for the Irish as they will try Theresa Rice, "and we haven't Kibelstis, especially compared Notre Dame spirit is all about. 
to prove that they can run com­even reached our potential yet with the first season of varsity petitively together against because some people have been cross country at Notre Dame. 
We've seen the various T-shirts on campus, and we appre­quality teams. hurt." ''They put more trust in our c_iate the spirit in which they've been done and the greatWomen's coach Tim Con­Rice admits that the team ability now," she said. "That 
interest in the game from fans everywhere. We've also heard nelly believes that it is not un­has had trouble racing as a first year we were just a mish­
rumors, unfounded or otherwise, that students plan to throw realistic for the squad to beat pack, but she also points out mash of people but now we're oranges on the field Saturday. That's exactly the kind of USC and win the MCC Cham­that the fourth, fifth and sixth a group of strong individuals." 
support we don't need. 
pionships, provided some of runners are faster and better Notre Dame's runners improve than last year. "The opposition used to say, 
We've worked long and hard to see our football program over their previous perfor­Senior Terry Kibelstis has 'Who is that girl from Notre 
reach its current level--and we hope to take another step mances. He is hopeful that noticed a different attitude in Dame?' " Rice says. "Now 
forward on Saturday. Please help by supporting us in a pos­Jenny Ledrick and l'erry her teammates this season. She they expect to see us doing itive manner. Notre Dame students and fans have gained a Kibelstis will be healthy and says it has helped the team to well." 
reputation for classy behavior--and we don't expect that to change this week.
No.5 men look to rebound from ND Invite 
Thanks for all your support--and we look forward to seeing you Saturday at the Stadium. Let's all work together to makeBy SCOTT BRUTOCAO and O'Connor is making im­minutes, and they finished it a day to remember for a lifetime.
Sports Writer provements.'' second and third in the meet, Piane hopes both will race at respectively. The biggest news this week USC, based on what he has seen 
''USC was the most improved Notre Dame football team captains:for the cross country team was so far. 

team in the Pac 10 last year," 





2__ ~--!L?It-{
the first national coaches' poll A second reason why the said Piane. "They finished 
-)?._'; _ •
17

of the year. In a survey of 15 Irish have to train hard is be­fourth in a very strong confer-
j'~L~ 

coaches across the country cause of the poor performance ence." 
N dB

Mark Green e olcar Andy Heck
concerning Division I schools, last week. The meet last year was at ~iiiiiii;;i;iiiiiiiiiiii;;;;;;;;;;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliii____liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiij;;;;;;;;;;;~Notre Dame was ranked fifth. "Quite honestly we have to Notre Dame, and this year it's While this is very exciting bounce back," said Piane. "We away at Southern California. If 
IllALUMNI=====
SENIOR
news for the Irish, they have have to have some good train­you think "home turf" is not a 
bigger things to worry about, ing this week and we really significant advantage in cross including a dual meet with USC need to run a good race at country, think again. in Southern California on Oct. USC." 
22. The team's fourth-place tie "Last year it was 35-40 







I...CLUB
This is only the second last week was a big disappoint­degrees outside and it was meeting between the two ment, with the only bright spot raining," said Piane. "They schools, with the first taking coming from its top two run­guaranteed us smog and an 
IIVfR/1 '£~ CO#EO«T
place last year at Notre Dame. ners, captain Dan Garrett and earthquake when we go out The Irish whipped the Trojans Ron Markezich. Their times for there," said Piane. "I guess 17-41, so why does a meet with five miles were both under 24 what's fair is fair." 

lf;f/0 PLift(... 
the Trojans nine days off worry them? The first reason is that the 

LETtCfl£8RIITEIITTIIE 
Irish have to get healthy, and 

HAPPY 20,.1 B·DAY 
in a hurry. At last Friday's In­vitational at Notre Dame, the 


@[b(]J[TIQ
Irish performance was severely hampered by injuries. Both fifth-year senior Rick Mulvey and junior Mike 
rR/ 9.·o0-2:oo A# 
O'Connor ran with injuries last week. O'Connor, bothered by a leg injury, was unable to finish the race, while Mulvey's sprained ankle kept him from 
VET, JERRY SAYS:
running as well as he could have. 
'NO TIME TO HATE' 
"Our most pressing concern right now is trying to get healthy," said 14th-year head coach Joe Piane. "I think we 

**lEA,. MIAMI**
will. Mulvey is doing quite well 


•••••••••••••••••• ,•..••••••••.•.•...• 
·················~-.


----------------------------------... 
Plan ahead... 
Wedding Week is coming! 
• 


page 27 
CAMPUS 
4:00 p.m. Internation Peace Studies Lecture "Nuclear Weapons and International Law," by Prof. Weston, Iowa University, 120 Law School. 
4:15p.m. Cushwa Center Lecture "Looking Through the Lace Curtain: Irish-American Search for Identity and Role at the Turn of the Century," by Dr. Meagher, National Endowment for the Humanities, Library Lounge. 
4:30p.m. Business Administration Year of Cultural Di­versity lecture by Mike Valdes of Coopers & Lybrand, Chicago, Hayes-Healy Auditorium. 
7:30 p.m. AF ROTC Lecture by Gen. Alan Rogers on leadership in the Air Force, Library Lounge. 
Friday 
Noon Internation Peace Studies Lecture "International Law and the Changing Nature of the Use of Force," by Prof. Weston, University of Iowa, 101 Law School. 
DINNER i~IENUS 


The Observer Weekend Edition, October 13-15, 1988 
~EW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

I Goggler 25 Giroux or 55 With 49 Down,Greeley
5Take-view suspense
29 Of a bygone
(be leery) writer 9 Duffer's era 56 Rock group 
31 Tureen 

nemesis 62 Time-half
32 Part of T.L.C.

13 Quit 83 Major ending 
34 Actor Tamiroff 14 Choler 37 Taken out 84"-Doone" 15 Bindlestiff 39 Mali neighbor 65 Threshold 
18 Spent 66 Touch not! 

42 Withered 17 Dec. 24 and 31 43 Famed garden 67 Rye fungus 18 Black, in poesy 68 Peete's props
45 Weird 
19 Rock group 69 Scuttles 
46 Coeur d' -, 21Aia-Idaho 70 Totter 22 L.A. gridders 
48 Tries 23 Emulates 50 Abate 
DOWN Falstaff 53 Standard 

I Broker's order 2 Colombian city 3D-dog 4 Tree: Comb. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
form 
5 Nautical location 8 Quotient 
element 


Notre Dame 
Reuben Turkey Divan Pasta Milano Stir Fry Vegetables 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
Buzz McFiattop 
Saint Mary's 
Turkey Cutlet Beef Stroganoff Stuffed Peppers Deli Bar 
' 
Olive?, Cl{fltf(i I~ W 10%1 J'He /'!({5(}(1/~ 1/l?e 5f'IUIN& OVtr"R 
1/NP HONtJT. 811/.1? tffeN 111(6 ROMIN6 
f31/NK5 JIJ5f 1rJ 1/fF{}/?P y()(/1( ----
CONTT?Ou&Cl 
SV/JSri/NC£ ... 

7"-~.song
Go ... 26"-Irae," ancient hymn 
8 Synchronized 
27 Cartog­
9 Rock group 10 Automaton 

rapher's dot 11 Dwelling 28 Rock group 12 Dixie dishes 30--majeste 
33 Arabian gulf 

13 -Calloway 


1"'6J 1"-'~ ll~t~hli-•di•UftYI1 ln4t'U..nt~lltr~o~rl 
I.,TJt<M: ..... ,I\IMli"'fll"rfl 
·~~~~~ lnutd\..ttu~o 
l'h•,,.J,.nl•~ ,,..,..,. 

lfthe press didn't tell us,who v.oold? 
ltllll'l rnnt~·d mlllfT!WtlllfliMIIht' NJk• ttl .. ln•t J'IR''>~ oHlo!.l hu\\ II Jll'•l4nt~ IIIUf fljlht~ IIf hi 1.h'Ot:U'~ •n' IR'I ltf~'"' i"IJII:."Itltht' ftr.l \nii.Udlht'UI l cniC'f II I·HUU·."·U Jr,!IO 
35 Translation for 59 Egg on
20"Com~yof 

Errors, e.g. Ovid's 49 See 55 Across 600rganic 24 Signify "obtineo" 50 Part of L.C.D. compound
25 Actor Byrnes 38 Night add-on 51 Ford or Pyle 61 Posed 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Mike Muldoon 
... 


38 Cast header 52 Advance 
40 Kind of blank furtively 
41 Belgian-54 "Golden Boy" French river playwright 57 Football's 
44 Indicated 
Graham 47 Catch with a 
58 Knowledge 
net 


Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer jMt advertising. JM4h. 
~ Call 239-6900 ~ 




Sports
page 28 Weekend Edition, October 13-15, 1988 

After six tense seesaw games In the National League Championship Series, there was little drama after the second Inning last night as Kirk Gibson and the Los Angeles Dodgers beat the 

LA gives Mets 'Orel' surgery 
Hershiser's 6-0 shutout sends Dodgers to World Series 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES--The Los An­geles Dodgers won the National League pennant Wednesday night by beating the favored New York Mets 6-0 in Game 7 behind Orel Hershiser's five­hitter, completing one of the greatest turnarounds in major league history. 
The Dodgers will host Game 1 of the 85th World Series Sat­urday against Oakland in a rematch of the 1974 Series won by the Athletics in five games. 
Hershiser, who finished the season with a record 59 con­secutive scoreless innings, started Games 1 and 3 without getting a decision and saved Game 4. Of the 65 innings pitched by the Dodgers, Her­shiser accounting for 24 21.3. 
He broke the major league playoff mark of 22 21.3 innings, set in 1986 by Boston's Roger Clemens. The old NL playoff mark was 18 innings by Mike Scott of Houston, also in 1986. 
It is the Dodgers' ninth pen­nant since moving to Los An­geles in 1958 and their first since 1981, when they went on to beat the New York Yankees in the World Series. 

The Dodgers scored first in six of the seven games against the Mets and made things easy for Hershiser by scoring a run in the first off loser Ron Dar­ling. Los Angeles then chased him with five runs in the second as New York made three sloppy fielding plays. 
The Dodgers finished the reg­ular season 94-67, a 43-game improvement over last year's 73-89 record. Only six times 
see DODGERS, page 18 


Hurricane warning is in effect at Covo 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame baseball team is following its most suc­cessful season ever with what may be the biggest series in the team's history. 
Miami brings its model baseball program to town tonight to start a two-game se­ries with the Irish. Tonight's game starts at 7 p.m., while Friday's matchup is scheduled for 8:30 p.m. Shuttle buses will be running to Coveleski after the football pep rally Friday, and they will return to campus after the baseball game. 
Chicago Cubs pitcher Jamie Moyer will throw out the first pitch Thursday, and renowned Cubs announcer Harry Caray will do the honors before Friday's game. The Miami Maniac, probably the most recognized mascot in college baseball, will be present at Coveleski Stadium for both games. 
The Hurricanes return only three starters from last year's College World Series team, but if history is any indication, Miami again should be one of the nation's top teams. 
Under veteran coach Ron Fraser, the Hurricanes have reached the NCAA Tourna­ment for an NCAA-record 16 consecutive times. Miami has gone to the College World Se­ries nine of the last 11 years, and the Hurricanes won the na­tional title in 1982 and 1985. 
Fraser, directing Miami for the 27th year, is the winningest active coach in college baseball with a career record of 1,069­380-9. 
see BASEBALL, page 18 
Game has to be good to outdo all the hype 

People say 'Notre Dame,' and it's like that's supposed to mean something. I don't see Notre Dame as greater than Toledo or Wisconsin or anybody else. I don't see them as being any different than Central Florida. 
--Miami cornerback Donald Ellis 

Perhaps Donald Ellis really feels that way about Satur­day's game between the fourth-ranked Irish and No. 1 Miami, but I doubt it. 

Marty Strasen 
Sports Editor 
The less outspoken Hurricanes know the importance of this game--a game Notre Dame has been anticipating for a long time after suffering painful losses to Miami in the last three meetings between the two schools. Take a look at the Notre Dame student body, the media attention surrounding the game, and the national pollsters who might make the winner the No. 1 team in the nation, and you get a feel for how big this game really is. 
"Like you really need a newspaper column to tell you that. 
The Game. The War. Once and For All. Those are only a few of the labels being pinned on this one, and the game itself is going to have to be outstanding if it's going to match the hype surrounding it. 
Reporters from all over the country have been around this week, and more are bound to be flying in over the next few days to cover everything from rumors about orange-throwing to campus T-shirts displaying vulgarities about the Hur­ricanes. 
see GAME, page 23 


Midnight hoops on tap for tomorrow 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team is holding a mid­night scrimmage Friday night at the Joyce Athletic and Con­vocation Center. 
The event officially tips off the Irish practice sessions for the season. 
A student dance precedes the event in the JACC Fieldhouse, beginning at 9 p.m. The video "Notre Dame Basketball's Greatest Hits" will be shown on a big screen in the main arena at 11:50 p.m. 
Coca-Cola will be giving away free 18x24 full-color schedule posters to everyone attending the practice, which consists of two 20-minute halves. The halftime show fea­tures the presentation of Max­well House Spirit of Notre Dame awards to a former and current Irish athlete. 

The ND women's basketball team has its opening session at 
10:30 Saturday morning. 

These activities are part of Notre Dame Spirit Week, which culminates with Satur­day afternoon football game between Notre Dame and Miami. 
,.. 


National Championship Bound? 
Follow the 5-0 Irish as they drive toward the National Championship. The Observer will keep you up-to-date on Irish football both before and after the game. The Observer follows Notre Dame football like no one else can. 
Subscribe now and The Observer's staff of more than 250 students will keep you informed of Monk Malloy's second year in office, the changing campus, faculty, students, and the beginning of the Irish basketball season. Please send $35 for the remainder of the school year or $20 for the rest of the semester to The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 





