Cloudy again ?
IACCENT: Irish Outdoors 
Partly cloudy and warmer 
today with a 20 percent 
chance of showers and a high 
of 70 to 75.
IVIEWPOINT: Haitian unrest 



VOL. XXII, NO. 28 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1988 
' the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Shuttle 'headed for space' 
Associated Press erick Hauck, the shuttle com­mander. "The best way to 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.­describe him is elated to be Discovery's five astronauts, headed for space," Truly told anxious to break an agonizing reporters. 32-month drought in American Around the Kennedy Space spaceflight, were "elated to be Center area, excitement was headed for space" Wednesday mounting. Campers and as the overnight countdown recreation vehicles found good began for a Thursday mid­viewing places across the In­morning launch. "dian River. Souvenir sellers set 
NASA officials were admit­up shop. NASA's Visitor's Cen­tedly nervous, but confident. ter sold out of the commemora­"The space shuttle is ready to tive envelopes that feature the fly," said shuttle administrator crew patch. Richard Truly, adding, "Even NASA's deputy administra­the weather is looking good." tor Dale Myers exulted that 
The ship, obscured for weeks "we have been working 2 years behind a giant scaffold, stood to put the shuttle back in busi­in full view after NASA ness and tomorrow is the day retracted the structure. The we plan to do that." He said, process took place hours early, "It's really the beginning of the so "workers will have a head future for our space program." start" on final countdown Arnold Aldrich, director of procedures. The count the shuttle program said, resumed at mid-evening Wed­jubilantly, 1'Tomorrow the nesday after a day-long, sched­shuttle should return to its uled hold. proper place in the sky and 
Fueling was to begin about launch us into a new era." 
1:40 a.m. EDT, with the craft Hauck's colleagues on the bathed in brilliant spotlights. flight are pilot Richard Covey 
"This has been a long 2 and mission specialists John years," he said of the difficult Lounge, Dale Hilmers and period since the Challenger ac­George Nelson. cident in 1986. Liftoff was The four-day Discovery mis­scheduled for 9:59 a.m. EDT, sion will be the first shuttle with a 2-hour window to take flight since Challenger ex­care of weather or technical ploded in a fireball 73 seconds 
Associated Press The changes are key to Soviet other Soviet officials rushed
delays. after liftoff from the same leader Mikhail Gorbachev's back home from trips abroad.
After launch officials gave launch pad on Jan. 28, 1986. The MOSCOW -The Communist goal of taking the 20 million­"There will be changes in thepreliminary go-ahead for over­Party's policy-making body member Communist Party out working of our political struc­night fueling of Discovery, see SHUTTLE, page 6 will. meet Friday to overhaul of the day-to-day management ture," Foreign MinistryTruly passed the news to Fred-the country's political struc~ of the economy and having it spokesman Gennady ture and make high-level lead­focus on ideology and policy Gerasimov told reporters at ership changes, Soviet officials goals. the United Nations in New said. York, where Shevardnadze 
The plenary session of the The Central Committee ses­was attending the General As­300-member Central Commit­sion had been planned for a sembly session. tee had been expected by Octo­long time, but the specific date Soviet media did not carry ber to discuss amendments to had not been set. any reports about scheduled the Constitution and expanding When the announcement was high-level Communist Party elections with multiple candi­made, Soviet Foreign Minister 
see SOVIET, page 6

dates. Eduard Shevardnadze and 
Chinese, Soviets set first Moscow meeting since the 1960s 
Associated Press was planned, but no time was Quian) agreed that actually it announced. must be decided by the Cam­
UNITED NATIONS-Chinese Quian met Shevardnadze at bodians, but other countries Foreign Minister Quian Quic­the Chinese Mission on Wed­may help," he added. hen will visit the Soviet Union nesday for a discussion of at the end of this year in the Quian's visit, Cambodia and In the past the Soviet Union first such working visit since other issues. has stayed out of the negotiat­the Moscow-Beijing split of the Soviet Foreign Ministry ing picture and insisted that 1960s, Soviet and Chinese offi­spokesman Gennady China and others discuss the cials said Wednesday. Gerasimov later told reporters matter with Vietnam. 
The trip points to a major the two "talked a lot about warming of Chinese-Soviet re­Cambodia'' and called the talks Gerasimov said Quian would lations and is expected to lead "constructive." He said Soviet­also meet Soviet leader Mikhail eventually to a Soviet-Chinese Chinese discussions· on Cam­Gorbachev in Moscow and summit. bodia would continue on the added that Moscow hopes the 
A later return visit by Soviet level of experts and deputy ministerial visit will lead to a Foreign Minister Eduard foreign ministers. summit between Gorbachev Shevardnadze to China also "They (Shevardnadze and and Chinese leaders. 




page 2 The Observer Thursday, September 29, 1988 INSIDE COLUMN 
IN BRIEF 

Jerry Marley, associate professor of civil engineering at Notre Dame, has been named associate dean of the College of Engineering, according to Provost Timothy O'Meara. Marley, a specialist in geotechnical engineering, has served as assistant dean of the College since 1978. He graduated in 1957 and joined the faculty in 1969. As asso­ciate dean, he will continue to assist the dean on matters affecting undergraduate education. 
IN BRIEF 

Friday Forum at the CSC On Friday, Sept. 30, the CSC presents Dr. Jay Dolan, Dept. of History and Directory of Cushwa Center, who will speak on "The Cultural Mosaic of American Catholicism," at 12:15 to 1 p.m. in the CSC. 
-The Observer 

The Anti-Apartheid Network has an information table in the library concourse from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. today. Come find out more about the issues of South Africa. -The Observer 
Bush-Quayle '88 organizational meeting will take place at tonight at 7 in 104 O'Shaughnessey. Call Tom at 283-1121 for more information. -The Observer 
The Korean Olympics poster display will be in the Hesburgh Library lobby all week. -The Observer 
Le Cercle Francais is sponsoring a French Mass on 
Sunday, October 2, at 4 p.m. in the Log Chapel. The cel­
ebrant will be Father Leveille, C.S.C. -The Observer 
Junior Class Off-Campus Picnic will be held today at 4:30p.m. in the park just east of Pandora's Bookstore on Howard (south on N.D. Avenue). Festivities include softball, food, and refreshments. -The Observer 
Student Art Forum meeting tonight at 6 p.m. in the Snite to discuss the October fundraiser, elections, and Chicago trip. -The Observer­
Pre-Professional Society will meet tonight at 7 in 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. A videotape on abortion and representative applications willbe presented. -The Obser­ver 
Inter Varsity Christian Fellowship, an 
interdenominational Bible study group, will meet tonight 
at 7 in 317 Grace. Call Jim at 283-1621 for more information. 
-The Observer 

Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 

Design Editor ............ Annette Rowland Design Assistant ............. Beth Peterson Typesetters ........ Bernard Breninkmeyer ...................................... Mark Ridgeway News Editor............. Kendra Lee Morrill Copy Editor ................... Rachael Jarosh Sports Copy Editors ............. Pete Gegen 
·····································'·Molly Mahoney 

Tile Olleener (USPS S99 2-'1000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Oblener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writing Tile Oblener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tile ot.ener is a member of Tile Assodaled Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Ann Hebenstreit Viewpoint Layout ............... Laura Manzi Accent Copy Editor .. Michelle Berninger Accent Designer ............•... Mike Conway Typists......... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . Will Zamer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Diane Bradley ND Day Editor ..... Margaret McCloskey SMC Day Editor .............. Maura Reidy Photographer..................... Erin Cusack 
Human beagle can still sing the old songs 
At daybreak Monday morning, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students crowded outside the Joyce ACC to line up for Van Halen concert tickets. Student tickets sold out in almost no time. 
But even now, weeks after ticket sales began, plenty of seats remain for the Barry Manilow show scheduled for next Friday at the JACC. 
Personally, if I did not already have plans for that weekend, I'd be ready to take a chance again at another Barry Manilow concert. The first rock (OK, so maybe "rock" isn't quite the right word) concert I ever attended featured a performance by the man my family affec­tionately refers to as "the human beagle." If you don't get the nickname, grab a picture of his face and place it next to a picture ofa beagle. You'll understand. 
We made it through the rain that Friday eve­ning to the Tallahassee-Leon County Civic Cen­ter. I was about 12 years old, and the Civic Center had just opened up a few months beforehand. It had just hosted a sold-out concert by Foreigner, but I didn't go to that one. Those big high school kids went to that show, and I didn't want to get hurt or mugged or anything like that. 
It's hard trying to get the feeling again of that memorable night. It wasn't one of those concerts where people were trampling each other to get in or anything, but it was a really fun event for the whole family (kind of like. a G-rated movie that doesn't force you to sleep, if they still make those). In fact, at the time, the human beagle had an impressive string of consecutive sold-out shows. 
But somewhere down the road, Barry began to lose popularity. I thnk it occurred about the same time he started to branch out and jazz up his music a few years back. 
The old songs are what I remember. You know, those songs that made you think you were in an elevator when you heard them, whether you actually were or not. "Could It Be Magic;'' "Mandy," "Ships," the list goes on and on. 
But now, except for the occasional vacation weekend in New England when I see my cousin, I never hear any of Barry's new material. And after hearing my cousin sing those songs, it's probably just as well that I never hear them again. 
Still, it's a miracle to me how much a person is mocked for admitting he happens to own one of the human beagle's albums. I'll admit that I have his greatest hits record, and I have just noticed how many of his songs I know by heart. It gets pretty disturbing when you know exactly where to insert the whistle in "Copacabana," 

Steve Megargee 
Assistant Sports Editor 
when the song was released as a single about 10 years ago. 
I know this is just one voice's opinion, but it seems to me that all those people who continue to criticize Barry are forgetting something. Most of his popular songs were in the '70's, and during that glorious decade, if you didn't like the human beagle, there was just one other choice: D-I-S-C-0. I know it might be emabar­rassing to say I have a couple of Barry records, but as far as skeletons in the closet go, I'd rather it be the human beagle than Andy Gibb. (By the way, I'm proud to say I can't even remem­ber the first verse of "Shadow Dancing"). 
And I can't smile without thinking of all those people who spent that time listening to KISS, an aberration in the music world that demonstrates how pet rocks could have become popular during that time period. I remember that stupid rumor that said KISS stood for "Knights in Satan's Service," but now that I think about it, their music was awfully similar to the way hell must sound. 
Perhaps some of you didn't even realize how I wrote the songs, or at least wrote the varia­tions of titles of Barry songs, in the first sen­tence of all the preceding paragraphs: But when it comes to making fun of somebody's past mu­sical tastes, let he (or she) who hasn't sinned cast the first stone. Maybe I'll see you at the concert. 
Thursday, September 29, 1988 The Observer page 3 
Merton was 'treasure of the Church' and 'resister,' says Garvey 
By CARLA PRANDO who interprets Merton's views current fashions which are News Staff on war and peace as "often-­merely mindless and hysteri­usually--streetsmart cal' ". 
"Thomas Merton the soulsmart . . . full of an ur-Garvey continued with a Resister" was the topic of a lee-banity taught by the Holy quote from "The Wisdom of the ture given Wednesday by Mi-Spirit." Desert," Merton's anthology: chael Garvey, assistant direc-"Merton was a resister of a " 'One of the elders said, "Eit­tor of Public Relations and mass culture which seemed in her fly as far as you can from Information at Notre Dame. his time--which is also our men, or else, laughing at the 
Garvey described Merton, a time--to be reducing us to the world and the men who are in Catholic monk remembered as level of ants and robots, turning it, make yourself a fool in many an activist, as "an all at once us into television watching things." ' " good man, a struggling monk, zombies unable to distinguish "That, I believe, is precisely a lousy hermit, an honest between the natural and the ar­the sort of resister that Thomas writer, a clear thinker, an in-tificial," Garvey said. Merton was, and precisely the competent activist, and a trea-Garvey quoted Merton: "'In sort of resister we are required sure of the Church." Garvey ·my opinion, the job of the Chr­to become," Garvey con­explained the role of Merton as istian is to try to give an exam­cluded. that of a resister and not that pie of sanity, independence, Garvey's presentation was of an activist. human integrity, good sense as the fourth lecture in the "The 
Merton "refused to come to well as Christian love and wis­Thomas Merton Series," spon­
terms with the world on the dom against all establishments sored by the Center for 
world's terms," said Garvey, and mass movements and all Spirituality at Saint Mary's. 
Students speak on research grants 
National Endowment for Mary Berger, an AmericanDANNIKA SIMPSON Humanities to do research in studies major from Denver,
News Staff 
the area of humanities last Col., spent nine weeks Two Notre Dame seniors, summer, spoke Wednesday researching James Madison. What do you see among 121 college students night on their experiences with Karen Julka, a government 

awarded endowments by the the scholarship program. 

This week at the 
/llf)EAVtW 
Try our drink special: Moussy, Imported from Switzerland. Exclusively at Theodore's 
SOFT CONTACT LENSES •Softmate Dally or Extended Wear Contact Lenses DallyWeAT: +7.00 to ·12.00 Extinded Wear: plano to ·6.00  
•Tinted Contact Lenses Dally or Extended Wear SoftmJte B or 2 different colors Bauach & l.Dmb  
Eye exam required at time of purchase. No other discounts, previous oroers or sale Items apply. Limited time offer. "Our eyewear prices are 1111 E Ireland Roadthe lowest in [ndlana, ar..d ~ij,~J:J!~~~~rs a in the Broadmoor Plaza promCse from the doctor." 291-4000 p~ w~•fi:ll Hours: Mon 10-6, Tues, Fri & Sat 9-6, Thurs 9-8 Appointments available but not required. Offices throughout Indiana  

As they talk, Susan Wilmot, a junior at Saint Mary's, and her mother
major from Malone, Wis., 
look down at the water of Lake Marion from the bridge crossing it.
analyzed the works and names of two Spanish poets during her research period. sors at Notre Dame to choose cording to Robert Burke, Notre 
The National Endowment a topic. "I felt honored at Dame's research consultant For Humanities gives money to winning, as well as apprehen­for the Institute for Scholarship qualified applicants, making it sive and very happy," said in the Liberal Arts, the endow­possible for students to do ex­Julka. She added that the re­ment was created by Congress tensive research while earning search experience was enjoy­in 1960 to encourage research $1800. The research takes place able because "you get to write in the field of humanities. over a nine week period during a well-developed paper." To apply for consideration the student's summer vaca­Both girls spent about seven for the research program, stu­tion. weeks researching their topics dents are required to write a 
The experience was and then two weeks writing a two paragraph proposal "fabulous," said Berger, who paper summarizing and describing what topics they said she consulted with profes-analyzing their research. Ac-would like to research, said 

Burke. The proposal should in­clude the goal of the research, the methods for completing the research, and the student's current academic status and age. 
A student chosen for the en­dowment must choose an ad­visor to consult with while working on the research, said Burke. The advisor must be a university or college professor located in the city where the research is taking place. 
The research may be done in any city in the United States. 
The research program was initiated by Congress to en­courage research and teach­ing, said Burke. 
••••••••••• , 
,~ 

.:• :.• , , 
i, 

: Would you like to get $100 for having: • a great time? • : Then participate in our : 
i lliJB> -~ 00~ ! 
! October 6 : : beginning at 9:00 PM : : First prize --$1 00! : 
: Call Maura at 283-3723 if interested • 
-------~-----~-~~~~-~-------:--------~----------------~--..------------------~-~ 
page4 The Observer Thursday, September 29, 1988 

The Observer I Erin Cusack
Studying hard 
during class are the only times to read anything be­
Amy Blong, a Saint Mary's junior, studies The Ob­server during a class. Sometimes, spare moments 
side text books. 

Bush is 'Santa Claus to the
I 
"r wealthy,' says Dukakis 
r r Associated Press 
r
, 
' 
Michael Dukakis waved a $20 bill in the air Wednesday and ridiculed George Bush's plan for a middle-class tax break as worthy of Ebenezer Scrooge. The vice president said his idea would give average Americans a chance at "a little nest egg."
An aggressive Dukakis also accused the Reagan adminis­tration of permitting a "Hall of Shame" to spring up over the last seven years, citing "dozens and dozens of top ad­
ministration officials who 
broke the laW Or Violated the public trust." He sabid. he Wboulfd crack down on lob ymg y 0 ­
~c~~~sp~~~.leave their govern-
Bush tried to turn the tables

on his rival, criticizing the Democrat's plan for people to repay student loans through a lifetime of payroll deductions. "We do not need to put the 
IRS on your tail for the rest of 
your life," he said. Vice presidential candidates Dan Quayle and Lloyd Bentsen 
went through astheirtheydailypointedcam­
paign paces toward next week's nationally televised debate in Omaha, 
Neb. 
Dukakis stepped up his at­

tack on Bush's new plan for
r 
tax-deferred savings accounts as he campaigned in Western 
Pennsylvania. 
b'll t
Waving a $20 1 to represen

the amount the average family would save in a year, he declared, "George Bush plays Santa Claus to the wealthy and Ebenezer Scrooge to the rest of 
US." That WaS a reference tO Bush's call for a cut in the cap­ital gains tax, a move that 
nual savings would be under loan. The money would be $20 per individual. repaid over a lifetime through 
The vice president sought to payroll deductions. turn the tables with an attack The prepared text for on Dukakis' plan to assure col-Dukakis' first stop of the day lege financing for all. "Under was government ethics, and he his approach, the government sought to tie Bush to the admin-would give you a loan, then istration's record. take a bit out of your paycheck "George Bush may be 
for the next 40 years," Bush satisfied with the revolvingsaid. door between the administra-
Dukakis proposes permitting tion and private lobbying firms any student, regardless of fam-where self-service replaces ily income, to receive a public service and dishonest federally guaranteed student consultants are ripping off the 
fentagon. 
~ t~
Jrru ' 
U ! -~-J~ 
~~ IIW 
· 

Quayle continues to label Dukakis too liberal 
Associated Press 
AMARILLO, Texas-Repub­
lican vice presidential nominee 
Dan Quayle, continuing the 
GOP strategy of painting Dem­
ocrat Michael Dukakis as too 
liberal for American voters 
said Wednesday that Dukaki~ 
had close ties to a group that 
advocates deep cuts in defense. 
Quayle said that the group, 
"Jobs With Peace Campaign," 
has "an extreme liberal 
agenda, the main feature being 
a radical cut in the U.S. defense 
budget." 
On Tuesday, Quayle called on Dukakis to resign his mem­bership in the American Civil Liberties Union, another group the Republicans have attacked in saying Dukakis is out of touch with mainstream views. 
Quayle's latest salvo came at a fund-raising rally for Rep. Beau Boulter, who is trying to capture the Senate seat of Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, the Democratic vice presidential nominee. 
Under Texas law, Bentsen is allowed to undertake both his Senate re-election bid and the vice presidential race. Boulter is trailing badly in the Senate race. 
Quayle has barely mentioned Bentsen in his campaign swing through Texas. But he told Boulter, "We want you to be in the United States Senate this year." 
GOP strategists say they want Quayle to concentrate his firepower on Dukakis, not on the No.2 man on the ticket. 
Quayle said that Dukakis was on the advisory board of the Boston-based ACLU, which in a 1987 fund-raising mailing said it intended to "make the federal budget a local issue by showing the tradeoff between military and domestic spend­ing" and supported a 25 percent cut in defense spending. 
The list of advisers to the or­ganization "reads like a roster of the extreme left wing of the Democratic Party" and in­cludes Jesse Jackson, George McGovern, Rep. Ron Dellums of California and Sen. John Kerry of Massachusetts, Quayle said. 
Among the group's goals, Quayle said, was to cancel the MX, Midgetman and Star Wars weapons systems, the stealth bomber and to cut the M-1 tank, "the very one Mr. Dukakis was riding in -by 50 percent." The 
Republicans have been making much of Dukakis' ride several weeks ago in the tank at a Gen­eral Dynamics plant in Detroit. 

• 
e ~ 
• 
• ..~ • 
• i l:[j ~-•H £~ 8J 
~
• ~~!:') '"lM~1w-i \
• . r: ~~ ~ -= e ~ u---~• ~ 
. -=D • M 1( ~ 
• } 5).") .n.U 
e 
e ff 
• 0 Ut"~ • 
e 
• • 
WANTEP: •• STYDENTS TO LIVE WITH 
FORMER PRISONERS • 
*************.• 
•e 
Contact e 

r---------------,: J• 
\J 

FRIDAY, OCT. 7-8:30 p.m. e e NOTRE DAME Joyce ACC e e All Seats Reserved -$17.50 & $15.50 • *************************** • 
TICKETS ON SALE at JACC (9 am-5 pm) and at all • e Ticketmaster locations. Michiana locations are L.S e e 
AYRES (UP & Scottsdale Malls), NIGHTWINDS (No. Viii. • 'A comm~nity of support, reconciliation, and adjustmenl, the Mall & Niles, Mich.), SUPER SOUNDS (Concord Mall, Elk-J:srr.~s Hocse of Michiana offers a unique opportunity for Saint •
• \lar;'s <:nd Notre Dame students to share in a life-tr~ining • hart), CARSON PIRIE SCOTT (Mich. City), MUSIC MAGIC • ~.:per~enc~ with former prisoners. Together an environment of • (Benton Harbor). ·:~st. hendship. and hope can be built to provide the confidence Charge-by-Phone 1-800-284-3030 • and courage necessary lor each to enter society as a valuable and • For info, call 239-7354 • lll!C(Jral member." • 
• Tim Dempsey, Resident of Dismas House • SWING STREEL.The newest Manilow album on ARISTA • • 
chrome cassettes. records. and compact discs. • •••••••••••••••••••••• 
Kathy Royer (7862) •

of 
-<..) 
••• at •••
Center for Social Concerns 

• 
MIf. 6 1. f\11/\ ·: 
Dukakis says would give huge .iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiijiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-iiiii-iiiiiiii-iiiiiiiiiiiiii..,..;..-.;..;.;;_....~---------;.;.;.;;.;

benefits to the rich. Bush set out on a 150-mile bus 

Scruffy the Cat/S.U.B. Date -September 29 
tour through Illinois combining political offense with defense. 
Time-9:00pm
He said his proposal for tax­deferred savings account was a move designed to "give tax­
payers a little nest egg." Under Place -Theodore's 
the plan, low or middle income Americans could invest up to $1,000 a year in a long-term Same Day of Show savings account and defer 
paying taxes on the interest. Live Interview on WVFI-AM 640 
Only those earning under $50,000 would qualify for the Scruffy the Cat 4: 00 pm 
full benefit, and one Bush ad­viser traveling with the vice Green 5: 00 pm president said as the plan was 
unveiledTuesdaythatthe an-~~--------.........--..-.--..........-..-.-...........-..-.--..........-.--.--.._......_..._.. 
Thursday, September 29, 1988 The Observer page 5 
Adrienne the Pig's fans launch 'Save-the-Pig' drive 
Associated Press tional lakeshore. Parks offi­of friends who say she's a fix­"This is not a zoo where porters have secured 300 signa­
cials claim Adrienne is more ture at the farm and should be animals are kept on display. It tures on a save-the-pig petition. 
PORTER, Ind. -Adrienne the than a year old and it's time to spared the fate of ordinary represents the message of day­They will present the petition Pig has been living high on the send her to market. pigs. to-day living," Alexander said. next week to lakeshore super­hog too long at the Indiana "The farm is being run as it "A lot of people have gotten "We're trying to teach intendent Dale Engquist. Dunes National Lakeshore, was in the 1880s, and pigs go to to know her,'' said Susie Cutler children that one raises little parks officials say. But sup­market," said Glen Alexander, of Porter. "It's like a petting pigs for market size and The petition recommends porters have launched a save­assistant lakeshore superin­zoo here. Everyone's gotten at­markets them and makes them providing a permanent home the-pig petition drive to spare tendent. "We don't feel that it's tached to her. A lot of kids who into the things they eat for for Adrienne at Chellberg Adrienne's ribs from the in the interest of good historical volunteered at Chellberg Farm breakfast," he added. Farm, and raising money for butcher. representation of what the have helped to raise her. her support through a public 
The pig is one of several processes were to not market "This is a silly policy. Cutler, an attorney who adoption sponsorship program. animals at Chellberg Farm, a pigs." Adrienne is great with people. works in Chicago, disagrees. "Giving Adrienne a per­working farm within the na-But Adrienne has made a lot She's a wonderful animal," "They can interpret all they manent home at the Chellberg 

Loads of styles, sizes, colors... 

...and great prices 
TO BOOT! 

1500 PAIRS OF NAME BRAND BOOTS TO CHOOSE FROM 
*Acme *Dan Post *Texas *Tony Lama *Dingo *Capezio *Nocona *Imperial 
Infant size 4 thru men's size 14 
Men's Boots From $59.95 
HOURS: Man thru Sat. 10-8 Sun. 10 to 5 
~~ 
~:::::...._..!:===::=::!...__.;;;::;. 

One mile north of U.S. 20 on Fir Road 55345 Fir Road, Mishawaka, IN 46545 
(219) 259-1188 Cutler added. want, but this isn't a regular Farm," the petition says, "will 

Alexander counters that it is farm. This is a petting zoo," reinforce the National Park's the park service's role to ed­she said. "When it comes to a role as caretaker of our natural ucate children about the facts living creature, they should surroundings by keeping with of life. And one of those facts have more sensitivity." its tradition of sensitive envi­is that pigs aren't pets. She and other Adrienne sup-ronmental management." 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 
LEARN 
LaFortune. 
CPR, PLEASE. 
Toke o hfesovong 
Red Cross CPR course.

The Observer 
+American Red Cross

The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for 

the following position: 

ASSISTANT ACCENT EDITOR 
For further information contact Beth Healy at 239-5303 or 283-1264 by 4 Friday 
tr·
STEAKSPRIME RIB ~( : . 
SEAFOOD~~ 
HRESri'LIRAN'T 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 219-259-9925 


GIANT COLLEGE BLANKETS 
Beautifully woven high-pile acrylic blankets 
Exactly the kind of blanket you've been wanting ...warm, luxurious, beautifully woven in your school's official colors. It's great as a bedspread ...a wall display...a lap wrap at the games. These lifetime-quality blankets are soft, thick high-pile acrylic (warm but lightweight) in a big 80 "x55" size. Machine washable, too. And reversible. with the same insignia and colors appearing front and back. 
ALUMNI-BRING BACK HAPPY MEMORIES. Own the official blanket of your alma mater. Ideal for the car, boat, guest room, and to give as gifts. Order yours today on MONEY BACK GUARANTEE. 
MAIL TO: Call Toll-free Anytime 
College Blankets 1-800-972-5858 
One American Way, Roanoke, VA 24016 Credit Cards Only 
YES, please rush my OHiclal College Blanket(s) for just $24.95 each, or 2 for $39.90. (Add $6.00 ship. & hdlg. per blanket.) 
42 COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES-TAKE YOUR PICK 
Select your school(s) listed below: 
0 Alabama Univ.  0  lowaUniv.  0  Penn Stale  
0 Arkansas Unlv. 0 Auburn Univ.  0 Maryland Unlv. 0 Marquette Univ.  0 Pittsburgh Unlv. 0 So. Methodist  
0 Baylor Univ.  0 Memphis State  0 Syracuse Univ.  
0 Clemson Univ.  0  Michigan State  0 Temple Univ.  
0  Duke Univ.  0  Michigan Unlv.  0 Texas A & M  
0 Florida State  0 Minnesota Univ.  0 Texas Christian  
0 Florida Univ.  0 Nebraska Univ.  0 Texas Unlv.  
0 Georgetown  0 No. Caroi.Unlv.  0 U.C.L.A  
0 Georgia Univ.  0 Notre Dame  0 U. Southern CAL  
0 Georgia Tech.  0 Ohio State  0  U.S. Air Force Aced.  
0 0  Houston Univ. Illinois Univ.  0 Okla. State 0 Okla. Univ.  0 U.S. Military Acad. 0 U.S. Naval Acad  
0  Iowa State  0 Ore. Stale U.  0 Vandebill Unlv.  

CHARGE TO: D VISA D MasterCard 
Acct.# 
Exp. date _________ 
Oty. __Total Enclosed $_______(VA res. add sales tax) 
Name~·-------------------­
Address ------------------------­City________State _____ Zip______ 
Tel.#( 
----------------•C)WAA1988 

The Observer I Erin Cusack 

Gimme a break 
Freshman Maria Trigo and junior Maria Casares take a break outdoors in front of the Saint Mary's library. 
page 6 

'" Soviet 
r continued from page 1 
r meetings or about
r Shevardnadze's travel plans. In Moscow, two Soviet sources dismissed speculation of an emergency or that the meeting concerned the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan. They spoke to reporters at a reception at the U.S. ambassa­dor's residence. 
"There is no crisis," said one highly placed source in Mos­cow. He spoke on condition of anonymity. 
-As a member of the 13-man Politburo, Shevardnadze would attend any meeting of the Central Committee. All com­mittee members who are abroad, including a number of 
For the first six months o:.. 1988, "terrorism is up substan­tially over last year, perhaps 
Corrections 

Due to a reporting error, Wednesday's headline and story on Notre Dame bridge players was incorrect. While the campus bridge games were played in Alumni Hall, Beuter and Heidenreich are residents of St. Edward's Hall. 
An article Wednesday incor­rectly reported the title of Fa­ther William Beauchamp, the University executive vice pres­ident. Beauchamp is the gen­eral campaign chairman for the United Way of St. Joseph County. 
"THE BEST WAR MOVIE :EVER MADE" 
.-..Mr6cotl, lOUONIIJ(iiUIII A1411MAII 

"..TAUT, TENSE, TERRIFI<;. 
A-CONTENDER FOR 

'!J'HE-YEAR'S BEST FILM!.' 
--. -LtllwCI.u..,U~IUUAV 
Stanley Kubrick's 
FUU. M£TALJACm 

....._ _,SIIi:lti."YU11.Jil''l..lo..l Mn•u....m11nr:JQ 1/lil':l :E!I•:Oltt: {~:J-n..."ll!o"~t!!t\:.e lln:l --:s-n.a ..llll!lr~ ".'!:!.••;lr,:Ot.I::.K ~.H~•'-t'.:: :;,;.,'':JIIIMII ~-·~H;~I!r!II'P'J ·--·--~-·--· 
FRIDAY AT THE SNITE 
7:30,9:45 
APWORKS 


The Observer Thursday, September 29, 1988 
ambassadors, were sum­moned, Gerasimov said. 
"The plenary will be devoted to reorganization of the party apparatus, including the Central Committee itself," he said. 
The Observer 

The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Business Page Editor Business Page Reporter 
For further information contact Mark Mclaughlin at The Observer (239-5303) 

!KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 
LSAT I·J !*1. 
IF YOU ARE PLANNING TO ENROLL IN THE KAPLAN LSA T PREP CGURSF­FOR DEC. 3, PLEASE CALL OR COME BY THE KAPLAN CENTER TO RESERVE YOUR PLACE IN CLASS•. 
EVERY EFFORT WILL BE MADE TO ACCOMMODATE ALL NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S STUDENTS. CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED SO PLEASE SIGN UP EARLY. 
CLASSES BEGIN OCTOBER 4! 
IKAPLA• 

SMC to conduct phone-a-thon 
By JOANNA GRILLO 

News  Staff  
The  National  Voter  Cam­ 
paign  and  the  Phone-a-Thon  

were the main topics of interest at Saint Mary's joint Program­ming Board-Board of Gover­nance meeting Wednesday. 
Between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, a total of 2500 new voters have already been regis­tered, said Julie Parrish, pres-
Shuttle 
continued from page 1 

accident ceded manned space to the Soviet Union, which has put 16 cosmonauts into orbit since then, aboard six flights. 
As a result of investigations since the accident, the shuttle fleet and NASA's·management have undergone major changes. The shuttle itself has had 210 modifications, includ­ing the addition of an escape system that would enable the crew to bail out if the ship had to ditch in the ocean. The es­cape system would not have 
saved the Challenger crew. 

. 
ident of Student Affairs. Stu­dent government plans to publish an issue sheet in order to insure that these new votes will also be informed votes, Parrish said. 
"This is student govern­ment's service project to the college. The donations will guard against a tuition in­crease proposed for next year," said Parrish. 
The shuttle booster rockets, blamed for the Challenger tragedy, have undergone an $800 million redesign. 
Because of the many changes, Hauck said the mis­sion is considered a test flight. "We'll-probably see some surprises, but I don't think they'll be life-threatening surprises," he said. 
Many astronauts and NASA officials have been immensely frustrated with the time it took to fly the shuttle again. 
' 
' 
FINALLY! 
A Book That Makes the History of Our Times Intelligible! 
BEHIND THE LODGE DOOR: 
CHURCH, STATE and FREEMASONRY IN AMERICA 
by Paul A. Fisher Former Bureau Chief for The Wanderer and Veteran Journalist of the Catholic Press 
Behind The Lodge Door lifts the veil on the subterranean war waged against Church and State by the Masonic Fraternity for over 200 years -even in­fluencing U.S. Supreme Court decisions. 
An amazing and well docu­mented expose of a mysterious international organization whose impact on history has been so studiously (and curious­ly) ignored by historians. 
Fisher, a graduate of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, served Price: $}895 per copy with OSS in Washington, North (Add $205 poslage & handlmg) 


Africa and Italy during World War II, and with Army Counter-DISCOUNTS: • Intelligence in the U.S. and 2-4 books, 15%; 5 books. 25 X. 
Korea. Prior to his journalistic career, which began in 1973, he was Legislative Assistant and Press Officer for the late Con­gressman James J. Delaney (D., N.Y.). 
"A brilliant expose of the hidden power that Freemasonry has in the past and still is exerting so successfully to de-Christianize America. This is MUST reading .•." (Fr. Vincent Miceli, Ph.D., Christendom College). 
"Fisher knows how to do research and how to weigli facts, and those skills give his work a sense of balance and sobriety that make it as persuasive as it is alarming . ..• [He] shows con­clusively that Uustice Hugo L.] Black's Everson opinion is un­historical. unconstitutional. and deliberately concocted out of Masonic dogma...." (Michael Schwartz, The Wanderer). 
READER REACTION: 
"Ip the last 35 years I've read quite extensively about Masonry. Your Book is the best." ]VB, California 
"A wonderful book. I hope you sell a million." PEH, florida 
''Your book needs to be gotten out to as many Catholics as possible and to other: Christian Americans willing to listen.'' EL, Florida 
"I think that the Catholic Church should be grateful for your research.'' BLH, Indiana 
----~-----ORDER FORM --------­
SHIELD PUBLISHING CO. P.O. Box 90181 Washington•. D.C. 20090 
Send copy(ies) of BEHIND THE LODGE DOOR (at $18.95, plus $2.05 for postage and handling to: 
'Name 
Address City _______ State ____ Zip ____ 
Amount enclosed: $______ 
Student government is also participating in Phone-a-Thon, a program where students will speak to Saint Mary's 
graduates in hopes of generat­ing donations for the college. 
Volunteers from student gov­ernment will make calls from 24 phones on Oct. 24-27 and Nov. 1-3 from 6:30 until 9:30p.m. 
\leneed someone with 
the ronfidenreofa ~' 
thededicationot 
amarathonerand the 
rourageofanexplorer. 
We need a Peace Corps volunteer Call us al1·8()0-.t~-8S80, Ext. 9t 


r------------------­
Viewpoint

Thursday, September 29, 1988 page 7 
Roots of Haitian trouble lie in U.S. policy 
Haitians have dreamt of being "free" for a long time. They first cried "free at last" in 1804. The cry was quickly stifled. The first independent black republic they created did not last long. Time and again, whenever the cry for freedom took political shape, it was suppressed. By 1987 such suppression was visible in the United States, proclaimed by the electronic gospel, T.V.--the most dramatic images drawn from the violence surrounding the elec­tions scheduled for Nov. 29. Now, at summer's end 1988, a new proclamation reaches us: events Haitians understand to be the sacraments of the terror under which they live. 
John Keegan 
guest column 

But the swiftness with which Lt. Gen­eral Henri Namphy was removed by a coup d'etat which declared Brig. Gen­eral Prosper Avril president, may sig­nal something new. Both the United States government and the Haitian se­curity establishment must have realized that Haitians had reached the point where their cry for freedom would become insistent enough to become "freedom or death" in the attempt. 
A number of things rush together as I write this. On Friday Sept. 16, I exited class at St. Mary's in peaceful Notre Dame, Indiana. Words from Peter Berger's "Rumor of Angels" echoed in my head as my plane landed in Wash­ington, D.C., that evening. "There are certain deeds that cry out to heaven. These deeds are not only an outrage to our moral sense, they seem to violate a fundamental awareness of the consti­tution of our humanity. In this way, these deeds are not only evil, but monstrously evil." Berger had been trying to make the point that some deeds were beyond moral relativizing and temporizing. 
A glimpse of the monstrous evil called "polictical-economic situation in Haiti" had begun to show itself on tele­vision even as we met: burnt churches, a military which stood aside while thir­teen were killed and scores wounded, five Haitian doctors making cause celebre on national television from the plight of a woman, seven and a half months pregnant, whose stab wounds reached into the infant she carried, two young Haitian men and a young woman justifying their attack on a church by proclaiming on national television that the priest was getting what he preached. 
The response of the United States government was to stand by and wit­ness a coup. Associated Press simply reported Anita Stockman, the State De­partment spokeswoman, stating that Avril phoned the United States Ambas­sador and said he was assuming the presidency. Our conference ended on Sept. 18. We left with the news that Brig. General Prosper Avril, a former mili­tary advisor for the Duvalier dictator­ship, had declared himself President of Haiti. 
But the fact of the matter is that a non-temporizing, non-relativizing con­demnation of the monstrous evil violat­ing the Haitian people in their struggle for freedom has to reach beyond Lt. General Namphy, and beyond the suc­cession of military personalities who will, no doubt, endlessly replace him. It has to reach into the United States itself. It is U.S. policy, especially the economic development policy it em­bodies, which needs to be condemned. 
The United States holds the key opening the door to Haitian economic development, and all the possibilities for social and political life which it en­tails. The military personalities are only the protectors of the current policy. The social and political situation it fashions creates emigrees and people whose human rights are violated. Every effort they make to meet their basic and fundamental human needs is seen as a challenge to the economic life which is being imposed upon them. 
What has to be clear is that Haiti is "hope-less" when it comes to being able to resist the absolute supremacy of the 

Doonesbu 
'(fie RlAJ,. 6/iOII6E /JIJ5H, Sf(JIJe.5 7ERtO IN THC J.VIN£ au.AR OF 
PIE "TRIJMP PRINCESS,' WA? J 
NOTA HAPPY MAN .. . 
IT'S ICTFAIR! 
ISHOUWN'T HAV!3 /J6RE:&T? 7D7H15! 

THI915MYCA!rlPAK5N! I J)!O 
AU.. 7Hf3 ~! ANI/ NOW lrlY I?ARN 7UI/N /'3 Ge7TIN6 AU7HE CR&O/T FVR [J()J<&-EJA5HIN6 
WHILe I /.ANGU/5H IN 71115 ... 7HI5 FWATIN6 
Hot£! I 

United States in its economic life. The Is it any wonder that such politics United States can well do without Haiti, would eventually invade religious sanc­but 85 percent of Haitian exchanges are tuary, one of the remaining places with the United States. The United where people can assemble? This is the States has the dominant hand in the final and most tragic dimension of making of Haitian economic policy. Third World dependency written in 
Haiti is the extreme case of U.S. eco­large, bold type. Unfortunately, when nomic policy in the Third World. Every the story is written in the United States, now and then it prints itself on the busi­a subtle racism continues to cast it in ness pages of our newspapers. In fact, a light that throws a shadow on the on Sept. 15, the New York Times re­Haitian people's "being ready for ported the Secretary of the Treasury, democracy." a former director of USAID, asserting There is, to be clear about it, very clearly that the direction of U.S. free little real investment and development market policy in world trade was "to in the Haitian economy. What U.S. 
policy for Haiti is fundamentally aimed 
It is U.S. policy, espe­at is "stability and peace." But Haiti 
understands this to be the "peace of the
cially the economic de­
graveyard." It silences grass roots po­velopment policy it em­litical expression, particularly unions and rural associations. It destroys
bodies, which needs to 
Haiti's ability to feed itself under the
be condemned. 
guise of a charity which sends food to end import curbs in the Third World." Haiti. The essential aid given to Haiti It is not the "good intentions" of is crowd control and riot assistance. "' 1
,
USAID policy makers that needs to be The policy of the United States 
,
judged. It is the policy itself. USAID toward Haiti is, at worst, the slow death economic development policy is built of Haiti. At best, it is the urbanization upon the notion that Haiti will develop of its poverty, the emigration of its economically via export-oriented people, and the silencing of self­growth. Haiti's comparative advantage determination. Haiti needs something in a free trade world is its abundance better from the United States: of cheap labor. There must be, as solidarity with its suffering and USAID policy sees it, "disincentives" struggle for freedom. for domestic food production. The But what does this mean concretely? rubric which explains the disincentives Clearly it means pressure by the United 
predicts that Haiti's food security will States to move Haiti toward true civil­be insured, more cheaply, via import ian government. But, more important­of food from the United States. Haiti ly, it means changing USAID policy thus becomes a country whose eco­which is geared to envisioning export­nomic development is tied to assembly led economic growth for Haiti. What industries and agricultural exports lim­Haiti needs is assistance to its gras­ited to coffee and, perhaps, a few winter sroots groups and associations who are vegetables for the U.S. market. trying to make the route to economic 
The domestic politics of this policy is development pass through the rural the suppression of unions to keep population of Haiti, with the hope that Haiti's comparative advantage in Haitian resources might be restored to cheap labor, systematic harassment of meet the basic needs of its population. peasant and rural associations, and Why can't a more enlightened admin­suppression of any manifestations of istration in the United States give them self-determination by the Haitian a chance? Haiti is a small country. It people. Attempts at economic develop­wouldn't be a big gamble. ment rooted in the peasant and rural Professor John E. Keegan is professor base of the country and addressing offundamental theology and Christian basic and essential needs of the Haitian ethics at Mary Knott School ofTheology people themselves, meets with disin­in New York, and is currently a visiting centives. professor at St. Mary's College. 
P.O. Box Q 
,
Aborted fetal tissue we use it to help people alive today? ,
· "f" d Autopsies have helped discover the ,
USe JUStI Ie causes of death and the mechanisms of ~ Dear Editor: many diseases. While autopsies make , 
I am responding to Regis Coccia's use of the dead, I don't believe they are 1 Sept. 21 Inside column on fetal tissue disrespectful or unethical. experimentation. Mr. Coccia seems to Abortions may be seen as unethical think that because abortion is seen as and evil but they still occur. Why can't 
l
evil, the use of the tissue from aborted we use fetal tissue to help others live? fetuses is also evil. He states the issue I see no purpose in protecting an "is simply one of respect for the dead." aborted fetus which will be discarded While we must respect the dead, we anyway. While we must be careful not must also look to the future. The Nazis to become callous toward the dead, we 
during World War II did many unethi-must also not become so pious as to cal experiments on humans. While refuse to look for benefits that may these actions were evil and unjust, they come out of evil and death. produced much useful data for Dan Sinclair medicine. Should we throw out this data Grace Hall out of respect for thP fiPad. or <;hould Sept. 28, 1988 
Garry Trudeau .---------....:....._;...__ 
Quote of the Day
.~~~1.. YOU'V& ~'(.,~
11AJ<J)J..Y 7(){)(H8) v, , YOUR Y061./I<T. I~~W 
"One of the difficulties with
I HA~ 
all our institutions is the
I

----,;,. 
fact that we've emphasized 
~., 

the reward instead of the service." 
Harry S Truman 
Thursday, September 29, 1988

a e 8 

Media manipulates facts for the scoop 
Every few weeks or so, thanks to the incredible amount of international coverage found in such shining stars of the newspaper world like The Observer and the South Bend Tribune, I feel an obligation to go find some paper that will tell me what important things have really happened in the world of late. Alas, when I went Krogering a few days back, I found a publication called "Weekly World News" that looked like it would do the trick. You'll never know just how many interesting facts are left off the evening news. For instance, headlines from this fine paper, among other things: "Startling Satellite Photos Confirm: WW2 Bomber Found On Moon" and "Vampires Attack Man Watching Dracula Movie on TV!" Un­usual? Yes, but just wait! There's al­ways scientific proof for these glorious findings. Look here: "UFO Crash Sur­vivors Found! 11 aliens . have been waiting 71 years to be rescued. 'Finally, the proof we've been waiting for' say scientists." That's it, I'm convinced. 
Glenn Fogarty 
,
,
, with no apologies 
r 
Moronic tripe like this stuff can be found anywhere, and it's just amazing that people (besides me) actually buy it. For almost everybody, these tabloids are one thing, and real news is viewed as another altogether, something to be trusted. Unfortunately, though, our legitimate sources of news are not al­ways as reliable as we would like to believe. The media (print, publishing, broadcasting) have been at times all too willing to manipulate evidence, all too lax in publishing or airing stories with no proof, and too ready to allow complete fabrication. Most of our news is objective and truthful. But when the media enter the realm of sensation, watch out. 
For starters, several years ago the Washington Post published an inves­tigative report about an 8-year-old heroin addict, for which the writer won a Pulitzer Prize in journalism. The only problem was this: the story was a com­plete hoax. Not much later, a New York Daily News columnist concocted a piece about a clash between a British Army patrol and street youths in Bel­fast. It never occurred. Even worse, in Canada, a Toronto Sun reporter "disclosed" that one of the Prime Min­ister's cabinet members had become rich through stock tips made from in­side the government. Scandalous charge, but sorry, no proof. These three people were fired. But how many un­truths passed off as objective fact in the media have gone unnoticed, been ignored, or covered up? 
Take, for instance, the CBS documen­tary a few years ago which claimed that Gen. William Westmoreland had "led a conspiracy at the highest levels to cancel crucial estimates about enemy troop strength in Vietnam." The ordinary viewer, thanks to careful manipulation of Westmoreland's taped interview, given the "evidence" couldn't have thought any differently. During the same period, Time flip­pantly tossed out a dangerous accusa­tion about Gen. Ariel Sharon's supposed acquiescence in the Christian Phalan­gist massacre of Palestinians in Lebanon; it later turned out to be un­true. In her book "Reckless Disregard" (about two subsequent libel trials), Renata Adler said that both CBS and Time refused to "acknowledge or even consider the possibility of error;" moreover, "it is the sanctimonious ar­rogance of these media giants that leads them to hide behind First Amend­ment issues rather than admit their 'scoops' are sometimes false." 

It's not that these cases are just sin­gular instances of media recklessness, withough any guiding ethos behind them. They've actually developed a whole science of phoniness in the past 20 years, informally called "Factoid Journalism." The old school of jour­nalism used to require questions like who, what, when, and where in order to get the facts straight. The new mode of inquiry states that a fact is only im­portant as long as it can be used within a larger frame of interpretation. The "interpretation" is the big thing. Along with this notion comes the belief that m1ssmg facts (factoids) can be "guessed" into the framework, as long as it seems possible that they might have existed in some sense given the surrounding information. It doesn't matter if it can be proven, just as long as it seems logical. 
Nevertheless, the media and jour­nalists continue to make a lot of money off these scoops. One investigative reporter is making a mint selling books and tapes claiming that Elvis is alive somewhere in Michigan; some people believe this hokum, because, as the logic goes, the inscription on Elvis' Graceland tombstone is wrong. So Elvis is alive! Outside of these ludi­crous claims, however, this journalism has shown its very ugly potential. Seymour Hersh, in a book "The Target Is Destroyed," claimed that Reagan had sent KAL 007 over to Russia to be shot down so he could score a propaganda coup. 
Not only has the desire of media people for scoops led to absolute lies, it's led to absolutely ludicrous, often approaching the level of "World News Weekly." One absurd tabloid topic that gets press every now and then in respectable papers is the UFO and the supposed coverup of our little green friends' visits. On Jan. 14, 1979, the New York Times published a long article claiming that the CIA is "secretly in­volved in the surveillance of UFOs" and that "the U.S. GovernmP~"• has been totally untruthful about UFOs and the coverup is massive." Soon after that, the Washington Post published a bit about crashed flying saucers and "dead aliens who were in both cases about four feet tall with silverish com­plexions and wearing silverish outfits." Remarkable, especially considering that this garbage went out over UPI wire. UFO investigator Philip Klass pronounced judgment that the "public has been brainwashed because the news media has shirked its responsibil­ity to investigate before publicizing ex­traordinary claims." All it proves to me (with the very fact that these scoops reached the pages) is the old adage that editors are people who separate the wheat from the chaff and then print the chaff. 
Last year, some place called the First Amendment Center was running ads with pictures of horrible rulers com­bined with the words "If the press didn't tell us, who would?" Here's my question: When the press goofs, who's going to tell us? 
Glenn Fogarty is a sophomore cur­rently enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Van Halen's visit calls for moral outrage 
What has happened to our sense of morality at Notre Dame? In the past weeks, QUr precious Catholic values have been threatened from all sides. The release of Martin Scorsese's "The Last Temptation of Christ" began this assault a few weeks ago. How can anyone possibly tolerate the release of a movie that even attempts to question our image of Jesus Christ? To add to this sacrilege, our own Student Union Board and Graduate Student Union sponsored bus trips to see this blatant attack against our faith. Fortunately, the more morally righteous students at Notre Dame refused to watch this movie and even went as far as con­demning anyone who even considered seeing the movie. Even without seeing the movie, these modern-day saints had the foresight and compassion to warn those of us who had not seen the film. These people have won my eternal respect. 
Tom Varnum 
third and long 

~ 
Another attack has taken the form of inviting United States Supreme Court 
r 
Justice John Paul Stevens to speak at
r 
our law school. As you may or may not know, Justice Stevens supports legalized abortion in the United States. Since this is in direct violation of Roman CatholiC' doctrine. it is incon­ceivable that he should be invited to speak at the Notre Dame School of Law. How can we allow a man who holds an opinion which is contrary to our beliefs to speak at Notre Dame? Fortunately, one of our esteemed law professors, Charles Rice, has valiantly defended our honor in his recent Observer column. It makes me rest easy knowing that a professor at our law school has the courage to deny a Supreme Court Justice freedom of speech to uphold our morality. 
As if these travesties were not enough, yet another threat to our Cath­olic morality looms on the horizon. On Oct. 30 (a Sunday, no less), we face an even larger evil. The devil worshipping, drug-and alcohol-abusing, child molesting heavy metal rock group Van Halen will play a show at our own Joyce ACC. How can this be possible? Is noth­ing sacred? This collection of drug and sex-crazed maniacs have assaulted the morals of Americans for over a decade. We, as moraly righteous Catholics, should be outraged. 
Drug references also inundate their supposed music. From "Dreams:" "We'll get higher and higher; straight up we'll climb. We'll get higher and higher; leave it all behind." In this ob­vious reference to the use of the demon marijuana, Van Halen encourages the use of this mind-altering, morality­reducing drug. Since the administra­tinn has bann~>ri alcohol advertisements 

Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of tl;le University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board.
r 
Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on
~ 
from all University publications, it should also ban any references to drugs and alcohol from any performances at Notre Dame. We as students cannot be trusted when exposed to such evil in­fluences. 
Far more damaging than the numerous drug and alcohol references are the veritable plethora of sexual ref­erences found in Van Halen's music. Such songs as "Dirty Movies," "Sin­ner'sSwing," "Unchained," and "Push Comes to Shove" overflow with evil sexual innuendo. Other songs, "Drop Dead Legs," "Hot For Teacher," "Girl Gone Bad," and "Feels So Good" blatantly promote promiscuity. 
Van Halen's recent single "Black and Blue" is perhaps the most disgusting song ever written (Warning: the follow­ing lyrics contain items that may not be suitable for all readers. Morally righteous guidance is advised.) "Slip n' slide, push it in ... Honey, I ain't through with you. The harder the bet­ter, Let's do it 'til we're black and blue." Such vile language cannot and should not be tolerated on this morally righteous campus. 
If you were outraged at the showing of "The Last Temptation of Christ" or offended at the invitation of pro-choice Justice Stevens, you should be ab­solutely vilified at the prospect of Van Halen playing under the outstretched arms of Our Lady. Since our rights to pf'acpful demonstration (along with our 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Chris Murphy Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia News Editor ...................................Mark Mclaughfin Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Saint Mary's Editor .................... : .... Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
freedom of speech> are protected under 
the Constitution, we, as morally righ­
teous Roman Catholics, should protest 
this degradation of our University. It 
is truly a disservice to our students to 
invite such a morally corrupt group to 
perform on campus. I am confident, 
however, that my warning will not go 
unheeded. 
With the moral outrage expressed in 

The Observer over "Temptation" and 
the appearance of Justice Stevens, 
there is plenty of support for .my cause. 
To these campus heroes, I send out my 
call. Since you found it necessary to 
protest the freedom of expression of 
both Martin Scorsese and .Supreme 
Court Justice Stevens, you must find the 
music of Van Halen morally offensive 
and must protest. I heartily encourage 
you to write to this paper, picket, hang 
sheets from your windows, write to the 
administration and express your objec­
tion to Van Halen at Notre Dame. 
Since we are in college, we are not 

mature enough to be allowed freedom 
of choice. What we listen to and what 
we read must be censored for our own 
good. We must be guided by those who 
are more morally righteous than our­
selves. I implore the administration to 
spurn those messengers of Satan, Van 
Halen, and save us from making our 
own decisions. 
Tom Varnum is a senior English and 
communications major and is a regular ·Viewpoint columnist. 
Operations Board 
Business Manager .............................. John Oxrider Advertising Design Manager, ............... Molly Killen Advertising Manager .................. Linda Goldschmidt Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shilts Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway Controlfer .......................................... Todd Hardiman Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns 

campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
I 
-. 
Founded November 3,1966 

~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Accent
Thursday, September 29, 1988 
page 9 

Club seeks recreation in outdoors 
W
ERICH SCHIFFGENS The Irish Outdoors Club accent writer was founded in the spring of 1986 by Sean Foley. Foley, a hen you think of "the fifth-year senior, and a Geor­Great Outdoors," what gia native who claims to have comes to mind? Do you con­enjoyed hiking since the age jure up images of "roughing of 12, founded the club out of it" in a hostile wilderness, or personal interest. VVhen he do you envision a serene came to Notre Dame, he was landscape disturbed only by disappointed that there was the rustling of forest animals no club on campus through or the trickling of a stream which students could enjoy that parts enormous pine the outdoors to an extent trees? Perhaps you see your­beyond a biology fieldtrip to self instead, sitting around a Green Field. So he asked two 
'-~·-·
Photos courtesy of Irish Outdoors 

Club members canoe down Pine River (left), and enjoy beauty of nature In Smoky Mountains (above). 
backpacking trips," said Pine River in Michigan which they are a far cry from Foley. "However, this year took place in the middle of Grizzly Adams, Foley assured we did get some student gov­September. The intrepid par­me that no experience is nec­ernment funding and the use ticipants and their fearless essary to participate in any of of a concession stand during leaders left South Bend on a the club's activities. The only a football game, so we hope Friday afternoon and camped requirement is interest. to be able to do a wider vari­by the river that night. The ety of activities." next day, they canoed for If camping, backpacking, 
The new funds plus mini­several hours, went swim­hiking, canoeing, kayaking, mal club dues will be used to ming, and returned to Notre or cross-country skiing appeal sustain an ambitious 1988-89 Dame late in the evening. to you, or if you just want to agenda for the young club. VVhen asked about her im­escape civilization and enjoy Future activities include a pressions of the trip, Saint the beauty and tranquility of planned trip to go canoeing in Mary's sophomore Rebecca nature, then you may want to 
roaring campfire, cracking friends, Dan VVeber and Mike the Okefenokee Swamp in Meehan said, "It was a nice check out the Irish Outdoors. open a few cold ones with Soenen, to help him, and to­southern Georgia over Octo­break from school and The trips are quite inexpen­your friends and saying, gether they established the ber break, and a tentative homework. It allowed me to sive, and a good time is "You know guys, it doesn't Irish Outdoors. plan for both cross-country see a different area outside of promised to all. The club of­get any better than this!" The club got off to a rough skiing this winter and white South Bend and gave me a fers great alternatives to VVell, there is a club right start in its first year because water kayaking over spring chance to appreciate nature. weekends or breaks in South here under the Golden Dome it received no funding from break. Despite the rain, it was a lot Bend, and for some, a trip that offers you all of this and the student government. "In One of the trips that had of fun." with the Irish Outdoors may more. This club is the Irish the past, the club was limited been slated for this semester Lest my description be just the thing to quell "the Outdoors. primarily to canoeing and was a canoeing trip down the frighten those who feel that call of the wild" within. 
A new breed of Cat 
A
KEVIN WALSH Uh, Scruffy The Cat is this funny. There are pockets of accent writer weird conglomeration of guys quite knowledgeable music that play their instruments lovers and stuff, but mostly ll journalistic stoicism fairly regularly, and at quite they're just kind of curious to aside, Scruffy The Cat is loud volumes to throngs of come out, and if they like it quite simply a high-energy, people with beverages in their then they'll dance and have a dance-stomp-and-shout, killer hands. That's about it. really good time. And if not, rock-and-roll band, just great OBSERVER: VVell, okay at least they'll be polite about catchy roots rock-and-roll. then, let's back up a little. it! (Laughs) "Hell, I paid two They're playing tonight at VVhat first made you get into dollars, I might as well sit Theodore's at 9 p.m. and I rock music like you have? here and drink for two was lucky enough to speak CHESTERMAN: Just the hours." with their co-founder, idea that you could sling a OBSERVER: More tradi­songwriter, guitarist, and guitar, and people would be tional line of questiqning. VVho lead singer, Charlie Chester­able to have a good time. It's are the forefathers of Scruffy man earlier this week. As sort of an extension of being The Cat? you're about to find out, I a class clown, maybe .... well, CHESTERMAN: Urn, prob­didn't get too many straight actually ... GIRLS. In capital ably the guy who invented the answers. letters. Forget the rest of that Twinkie who's dead now. 
OBSERVER: Help me out. stuff. And... usually the person who I've been trying to describe OBSERVER: How do you hosts the Dialing-For-Dollars band, who would they be? have Adam's Apples. Think Scruffy The Cat to my friends find it playing out here? The Mternoon Movie show, you CHESTERMAN: Uh... Royal about it. and anyone who'll listen. Midwest is a strange place. guys have that? They're Crescent Mob because we OBSERVER: Uh, I will ... 
CHESTERMAN: VVell, I CHESTERMAN: Yeah, it's pretty influential to us ... oh played with them a couple Point blank, why do you think don't think I can help you out, kinda weird, kinda different. Golly Moses, the Beatles, nights ago, and decided that Def Leppard is in the ­and so I think that the two of South Bend'll be our fourth or probably. they're really, really great. Top Ten and Scruffy The Cat us are gonna be beat to a fifth date on this little road OBSERVER: So if Scruffy But tomorrow if you asked us isn't? I can't figure it out. bloody pulp by all your pals. trip. The Midwest is kind of The Cat could be one other the same question we might CHESTERMAN: It's that 
say we wanted to be...l don't guy's pants. You know, the Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson know ... Yes or something. ones that look like his mom 
OBSERVER: Speaking of washed 'em wrong or someth­Yes, you guys are considered ing. They're really awful. The sort of a hip band in certain ones with the cuts in them circles. VVhat's Scruffy's idea and they're· all frayed and of "hip?" stuff. I don't know. Girls dig 
CHESTERMAN: (Derisive that stuff. VVe're not fashion laughter for about 15 seconds) plates. VVe're more like din­That's very humorous. You ner plates. made my day. This high-caliber of band Um ... girls ... girls are really doesn't come around here too hip. Girls are really weird, much, so don't miss the but they're really hip. You chance to go see Scruffy The know something? Girls don't Cat. 



-

page 10 The Observer Thursday, September 29, 1988 
-
n.a.....Notnt Dameoffice, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu· dent eent., -=ceplll cluslfied ectv.tising from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The a.....s.Jnt ~offlc:e, located on the third floor of H-uu-Collge Center, accepts cluslfieds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline tor next-day cluslfleda Ia 3 p.m. All clualfleda muat
Classifieds be pntpMt, either In person or by maiL The charge Ia 10 cents per five c:haqcters perct.y. 
I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME Have 1 student ticket to sell for Stanford, 
READY and WILUNG John Gehred (aka Gozer) is 19 todaylGAMES.272.QOII Rice, and Penn St. games. Call Andy 
Happy Birthday, you lool! x1876
NOTICES WANTED 
to trade ANY home game ticket for 2 Have phun· your bro, Dan. 
desparely need 2 gas for miami (upset) 

Penn State GAs or 1 student. Call Jacqui TYPING AVAILABLE CRUISE SHIPS game 2723491 NEED 2 or 4 GAs for STANFORD MIAMI at 272· 7690. 287-4082 Now hiring ell positions. Both skilled OR AIR FORCE x1999 NICK TWO ITALIAN BLONDS and unskilled. For Information, Call 
NEED TWO GA'S & 1 STUDENT TIX NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO THISFOR MIAMI PARENTS WILLING TO

(815) 292-6900 Ext. H-408. I HAVE TWO FIFTY· YARD LINE TICK· WEEKENDPAY BIG$$$$ CALL STEPH 1319
John Blasi's hair spontaneously com· ETS FOR MIAMI AND TWO GA's EACH Will trade MIAMI stud for 2 STAN GAs. AND WE'LL SHARE EXPENSES busted at lunch Tuesday. Please pray for WANTED·· Part·time waitresses to work FOR ALL OTHER HOME GAMES. I x1437 
PLEASE CALL X3719 him. evenings and weekends. Friendly atmo· DESPERATELY NEED THREE PENN
WILL SELL MY TWO MIAMI STUD. 

sphere,descent pay. II interested call TICKETS TO HIGHEST BIDDER ON STATE TICKETS, GA's OR STUDENT, 234·1067,Ask for Betty or Greg. !KlO LEAVE OFFER AT 277 • 7298 AND WOULD LIKE TO TRADE THE ..,, DUKAKIS·BENTSEN 1988 ••••• Matt "Schmeal" Gallagher for VP MIAMI TICKETS OR ANY OTHERS FOR 
THERE WILL BE A MEETING THURS. HIRINGI Government jobs · your area. MIAMI TICKETS NEEDED FOR MOM YOUR PENN STATE. CALL ANNE, 
PERSONALS 
!v.!9 AT 7:00 PM IN 116 O'SHAG. IF $15,()()()..$68,000. Call (602) 838·8885. AND DAD AND THEIR FRIENDS. 6 GA, x2764. 
THERE ARE ANY QUESTIONS CALL ND PREPROFESSIONAL SOCIETY EXT 6262. 
4 STUD. WILLING TO TRADE STAN· 

LIVE MUSIC 10 PM-? MARK AT 1177.· MEETING TONIGHT I have 2 GA's for Stanford ... call Anne at
FORD GA'S. CALL 233-3027. 

NO COVER 7:00PM ATTENTION FOOD FANATICS 2764. 
BOKO MARU OFF-CAMPUS JUNIORS!!II!!!! 118 NIEUWLAND 
Need 1 MIAMI STUD Ticket, Please call AT MCCORMICK'S Hungry?Thirsty? Both! Come Join Us

ANNE# 3736


IF GOOD FOOD IS YOUR PASSION I HAVE GA's FOR ALL HOME 
115 N. MICHIGAN Thursday at the O.C. Junior Class Picnic. PUT IT TO WORK FOR YOU! GAMES...WILL TRADE FOR PENN 
DOWNTOWN SOftball,food, and cold be DO YOU LIKE JAZ2.? DO YOU LIKE STATE TICKETS. CALL ANNE AT 2764. 
I need 2 AF GA'sl DAWNx2286 

er ... COKE.4:30P.M. Howard off N.D. REGGAE? Then you'll love MIRIAM PART-TIME KITCHEN PREP AND 
Ave. just past Pandora's. MAKEBA & HUGH MASEKELA In con· RETAIL (EXPERIENCE NOT NECES.. I have 2 Penn State GA'a for 2 Miami N.D. CANDY
2 TIX TO AU HOME GAMES FOR cert SUNDAY, OCT. 9 at Bpm In Stepan SARY. ENTHUSIASM AND INTEREST GA's cell Tom 1750 Personalized Notre Dame, Green-White WHO: Seniors
SALE.272·6863 

Center. 239-7442 & 239-4626. REQUIRED!) Tatty $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check WHAT: Senior Reflection GroupTICKETS NEEDED FOR NO. 
I NEED 1 MIAMI AND 3 PSU TIX X2964 to: MAIN EVENT, L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 WHEN: Sign-up deadline Oct. 7 at CSC WHY PAY $25 TO $35 AT CARNEGIE CONTACT MARIGOLD MARKET, 272· STANFORD. COLLECT: 21s.539-8421. BETH 
S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA90037. 213·741· WHERE: In the homes of host facultyHALL? See MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH 1922. 1338. 
& etafl MASEKELA In concert Sunday, Oct. 9 Yikesll NO law stud needs 8 Stanlord NEEDED: 4 G.A.'S FOR STANFORD 
WHY: Good company, stimulating at 8pm In Stepan Center for ONLY $4 DRUMMER · WANTED for original hard GA's or will lose job offer. HELP, CALL MARY BETH· 2979 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 PENN STATE converutlon & horne-<:ookad food.
PLEASE!! 283·2746 Todd

to $101 239·7442 & 284·4626 rock band. x306B.Ieave message GAS AND 2 MIAMI STUDENT TIXS. HELPIII I NEED 3 PENN STATE TIX­
PLEASE CALL HEATHER AT 277·3268 TEXTBOOKS ·Bought & Sold-Books Need ride to and from St. Louis for Oc· STUDENT OR GA··FOR MY LONG·
NEED 3 PENN STATE GA'SIII $IS NO AFTER 5 P.M. WHAT ARE YOU DOING AFTERPROBLEM. PLEASE CALL JOHN 277·

for ALL clesaea still evelleblel UN­Iober break. Will share expenses. call LOST BROTHERS AND SISTERSII GRADUATION?
3997.

BEATABLE PRICES!lt Pandora's Chris at x1382. HELP TO BRING THE FAMILY BACK 
ELAINE SEIDEL COME SEE IF VOLUNTEER WORK IS Books, 808 Howard St., just off of NO TOGETHER AGAIN--PLEASE!! x4975 Happy 18th Birthday Slalll 
I 
FOR YOU! Ave. 233-2342. COLUMBUS, OHII DESPERATE FOR Aileen.
NEED 5 STANFORD GA's 

Love, Becce POST GRAD OPPORTUNITIES NIGHT AIDE THIS WEEKEND-SEPT. 30-0CT. 
CALL SUSAN 2551 OCT. 4, 7-10 PM, C.S.C. 

Experience the URBAN PLUNGE. Want 2 CALL KELLY· 284·4429 FOR SALE· Two MIAMI student tickets. more information? Call the C.S.C. 239-
Highest Bidder Call X27 44. Boober Crayon · That Chick was mar· 
5293 or Asl< someone who has made a w:A:Nr"Eo··:ro..Eiuv:··s;;;;~i~;··~;·"M;;p;;d·~ ginal at best; your judgement was in error. 
CHICAGO CUBS VS. PITTSBURGH plunge before. Need not be pretty. Will pay $CASH$ on I NEED STANFORD TIX MIKE 4113 I guess what they say is true, Bob; NO 
PIRATES tha spoil Call Tony at 288·6603. CHICK IS UGLY AFTER TWO A.M. I! • SUNDAY, OCTOBER 2ND
Need 4 GA Tix Miami. Call collecl 215 I need 2 Penn State student or GA's. 

541 Park Lane TIX AND TRANS $15 OPENING SOON Call Karen x4281
947 5464·Brian 

ALL STUDENDS WELCOME COACH'S A lonely, good-looking man is loafing for BUSES LEAVE 10 A.M. 
\ LOST/FOUND I 

SOUTH BEND'S NEWEST Dude. I need Miami Hckets. Bad. I'll pay I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S ·DAN x4115 Penn State tickets, either student or GA. ON SALE HALL LOBBIES AT SMCanything reasonable. Call x2343. Make
RESTAURANT Will offer sexual sacrifices at any hour. OR CALL CAROL AT 284·5011 Found: gold chain with cruc~ix in O'Shag an offer. Call Danny at # 1450 
SPONSORED BY SMC JUNIOR CLASS 3rd floor women's bathroom on Wednes· Now accepting applications for cooks, WANTED: 2 NO-MIAMI FOOTBALL TIX. 
day, Sept. 21. Call 283·2899 to ident~. buaers, aarvera, ate. Baneflta, paid WILL PAY FACE VAL. PLUS ANY SEA·
MI·AM·I in need of 3 Miami stud Ux and Helpl I need a ride to Boston Mass for vacations, tlpa. 1 Miami GA please call $$JEFF at 3528 VICE FEES. MIKE (612) 938·~22, 4740 Ocl Break Will help pay expenses I Call 
Grag, Miss you in BFM. Sure you won't FOUND A pair of sunglasses on Green Part lima, 11-20 hra. $$ CHURCH LANE, MTKA., MN 55343. Jason x2343 
slick with ~? Unda Field before the Michigan game Call Full time, 40 hra. or more 
Chris# 3614 Apply from 1·7, Mon.-Fri. I Need 1·2 MIAMI# 1934 NEED 2 OR 4 STANFORD nCKETS TO THE WONDERFUL YOUNG WO­
NO PREPROFESSIONAL SOCIETY Very CION to Campus. MAN 
MEETING TONIGHT(Cen tracle Air Force or Rice tickets)

LOST KEY I Sat. 24, Room 389 REWARD Phone 277·7678. I HAVE MANY TIX FOR ND-AF. WILL WI THE DARK HAIR AND BEAUTIFUL 
7:00 TONIGHT 284·517411 2048 State Road 23. TRADE OR SELL. CALL COLLECT SMILE,ABOUT 5'4",WE'VE EX·CALL PATTI AT 2770 118 NIEUWLAND 
312-563-5840 OR 312·599-3210. CHANGED MANY HEUO'S,MOST I lost my reading glasses at the Purdue RECENTLY AS YOU ENTERED GATE 
2 STANFORD stud tix for sale to highest 
gamel They were in a Vuamet case 17 FOR THE PURDUE FOOTBALL
I NEED TIX FOR MIAMI, STANFORD, bidder · call Kelly # 3864 FOR A SPECIAL "BLOB OF PASSION 
There will be a rewardl Call Maria SMC GAME. (YOU WERE LATE) OH
RICE, PENN ST. CALL COLLECT 312· AND VICE" HELLO AND A HUG 
4349 YEAH,YOU ALSO HAD A WHITE RIB·
583-5840 OR 312·599-3210. YOUR THEO BUDDY
FOR SALE 
TWO STANFORD STUDENT TICKETS BON IN YOUR HAIR. WHEW! I HOPE END AD FOR SALE
LOSTI LOSTI LOSTI THAT'S ENOUGH! YOU KNOW ME,/'M 
NEED PENN ST. TKTS.(ST OR GA) $25 EACH
GOLD CHAIN LINK BRACELET TV RENTALS: YOU CAN RENT A 25" THE TALL ONE. I'D LOVE TO MEET
WILL TRADE RICE GAS, OR OTHER CALL 3718 AMYH. 
LOSTI LOSTI LOSTI COLOR TV FOR ONLY $90.00 PLUS YOU.··A TRUE ROMANTICIST.
HOME GAMEST TKTS. CALL JOE 277· HAVE A WONDERFUL DAY. REMEM­TAX, OR A 19" FOR ONLY$70.00 PLUS BER TO ENJOY IT! KEVIN
IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL 0725 ANYONE WANTING TO TRY SKYDIV·TAX. FREE SERVICE. FOR FAST FREE 
FRAN AT # 2999, # 3023 ATTENTION: Nead G.A.sfor Rice! Call lNG CALL DEAN # 287·3024DELIVERY, CALL COLLEGIATE REN· 
Help my little league coach needs 2 Dan347ll TALS AT 272·5959 ANYTIME. STANFORD GA's. x1604 Rob DO YOU LIKE JAZ2.? 00 YOU LIKE 
ST Jude Help rna in my present petition 
REGGAE? Then you'll love MIRIAM FOUND • in Alumni Hall on 917, single Moving must sell: Stereo, queen & twin HELPI I need 5 MIAMI tixs, any type will SSSSDESPERATEI Need only two more MAEKBA & HUGH MASEKELA In con­key to rm. 343. Call Tim at x1712 to do. x1604 ROB STANFORD GA's PLEASE, PLEASE call cert Sunday, Oct. 9 at 8pm In Stepan
beds, tables, sewing machine, Amstrad FALL FESTIVAL ident~ key chain and claim. Riles x1615 Center. 239·7442 & 284·4626.
wordprooessor, 1Q..spd. bike, microwave, FALL FESTIVAL and much more call John 288·2062, FALL FESTIVAL
3 STANFORD GA'S 4 SALE I can't -d thla but you can. Open Apt. Sat. &24, 8-6pm, 1112 S. 20th 1 STAN. STUD 4 SALE MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL PHILIP BENINCASA NEEDS A HAIR·
WHY PAY $25 TO $35 AT CARNEGIE 
St. Apt 505, South Bend COMING NEXT WEEK ........ . 
I just lost my g..._ under blzzare call anytime, lv. message and offer HALL7 See MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH CUTIII Join tha growing number of con· clrcumatancea, and not only am I In x3201 MASEKELA In concert Sunday, Oct. 9 cemed friends who wish that Phil would grave danger of flunking vlrtuelly ell MACINTOSH 512K FOR SALE at 8pm In Stepan Canter lor ONLY S4 get a haircut... Talk to Phil...TODA Yl 
WITH FANNY MAC AND ALL MY SPRINGBREAK BAREFOOT CRUISE 
of my clll...., but also can't quite 4 Lawyers in love need tix for Stanford to $1011 239-7442 & 284·4626 
50 Ft. Y.:hta Bimini Bahamas
meks out the scoreboard at home SOFTWARE FOR $800 OBO. Nick # Make them happypall 2723491 FI1Z··Hope you've recovered from your 
1423 Groups of 8 $435.00 PP 7 d•ys
games. Help me figure out when to WHEN I GOT HIT BY A CAR EVERY· Cape Cod brawl. Thanks forth e laughsI·
1-801)..9119-7245
cheer: Noltfy Paige at x2923 of any NEED 2GA'S FOR PENN STAND RICE· ONE SAID, "LETME KNOW IF YOU ·M. 
TWO PRINCE SPECTRUMS Arrange Small Group & CruiM Free
g..._• alghtlnga. They are of lm· CALL MIKE # 1628 NEED ANYTHING." WHAT I REAUY FOR SALE
meaureble Mnllmental value to me. NEED IS 2 STANFORD GA'SI PLEASE WHY PAY $25 TO $35 AT CARNEGIA 
PRE-5TRUNG FOR $80 EACH! NICK 
HELP CONVERT I.U. FANS TO THE HELPI CALL LISA 4945 HALL? See MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH # 1423 
PETE-DO YOU HAVE A CIGARETTE?
IRISH. I NEED 4 OR 6 G.A.'s FOR AIR MASEKELA In concert Sunday, Oct. 9 
SERIOUSLY, HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY
FORCE. TOGETHER IF POSSIBLE at 8pm In Stepan Canter lor ONLY S4 TO A TRUE INDIVIDUAL AND A TEA·FOR SALE: 2 Stanford stud tix & 1 Air 
LOST A Gold Chain was lost CALL JOE 272·9591 $$$$ to $101 239-7442 & 284·4626
Force stud. Call 288·2314. 
RIFIC GUY! RITA
ROUND TRIP TICKET FROM SB TO the South Dining Hall and Badin. I DESPERATELY NEED SENIOR REFLECTION GROUPS·a 
Saturday on the quad between 

NEWARK FOR THANKSGIVING CALL 1 or 2 Stan. Stud tix and 1 Miami Stud
MIKE# 1628 Planes, trains and automobiles Tues.
ff found, contact Vince at 1606. 1 MIAMI TICKET tix 4 sale cheap. Call Mike or Scott # great way to end your years at ND 
Wed, Thurs 9 and 11 Carroll Aud, SMCThere is a reward! CALL ELIZABETH X4420 
1586 

T-SHIATSI!I Screw U KILL THE CANES $1 Sponsored by the SAB and class of
S$$S$ Hey guys wish GO IAISHI Call 271·8311 ask for Pete 
'91 

CARA AUTH D DESPERATLY need 2 MIAMI GA's. $$$ 
1 HAVE 2 50 YO LN STAN GAS CALL 287·5451, KEN. A Happy 22ndl1 
GATHER AGAINST APARTHEID
277· 2486 But be careful because she bruises very FOR SALE: THANKSGIVING BREAK Anti Apartheid Network
Lost &271 Blue Notre Dame bookbag with 1 STUD MIAMI TIX FOR SALE · BEST easily. Happy birthday kiddo gray suede bottom. Please return to 208 NEED STANFORD GAs. CALL CHRIS OFFER BY 1~ CALL 1370 ·HEATHER Love, Condit
FLIGHT TIX, from S. Bend to Newark, FRIDAY VIGIL 12:15 PM Dome steps NJ. and back to ND on Sunday. Must
Lewis Hall or call Lenore at # 2198. No AT x1073 
sell by Saturday! Call Mike, x2048
questions asked. I really need my notes HAVE ONE MIAMI STUD FOR SALE. 
PIERRE, SOUTH DAKOTA ... lhe place
and notebooks back as soon as possible Dad needs 1 or 2 GA's for Miami Any DESPERATELY NEED ONE STAN· KRIS MALAKER 
Midterms start Thursday and w~hout my seat--any price Call Megan at 4624 FORD STUD. CALL X4111 THANKS Happy 21st baby, you finally made it!
CARPET REMNANTS FOR SALE. to go for break! I 
OLIVE GREEN, REASONABLE PRICE CALL JOE X4137 BY FRI 900 FOR HAPPY 21ST JILANNE!!!! Let's celebrate notes Dad WON'T be happy. 16 days until we reach the beach 
2 Miami GA's to the highest bidder by Be careful not to get any sand in your
MIAMI TICKETS WANTED
DETAILS 2nitel Watch out for moving stairs, and
10·3 # 1165 Dave Will trade Stanford, Air Force, or $$$$ shorts 
if you do any TEQUILA SHOTS stay 
Have a great day Whoever took my green backpack from See THE CHURCH-WIRE in Chicago COULD SOMEBODY PLEASE SELL ME awayST from my bed. How bout an ice Love, Condit South Dining Hall Tues. please return lt. OCT 6. $15 for chartered bus AND drinks THREE PENN GA'S cream cake? Luv, the Jetmouse AI least my notebook and folder. Kris Call 4812 ASAP for info CALL PAT 283·1775 for 2 Miami GA's. Call John at 2089. 
TWO Student MIAMI tickets for sale. Call x2599. 
We ARE Etc. We ARE wearing no un·
Chris after 10:30 P.M. 288·4931. Tuesday was UNDERWEAR FROM 
TWO PITT GA TICKETS FOR SALE derwear. We ARE NOT Tim Irvine. Who 
are we?

LOST: Blue-faded Levi jacket. Left in U· CALL 1370 HELL DAY It creeped, ~crawled, It wasn't
FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI & 1 AIRFORCE brary Auditorium on Sept. 22. II found, worn at allllll BAN UNDEAWEAR!II!
1 BEDROOM APT. WITH KITCHEN. 3 STUD TICKET··BEST OFFER CALL please conlacl Kevin at 1128. Thank you. 19711 BEIGE CHEVETTE. GOOD 
BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME. AVAIL­MARY AT 

SHAPE. 75,000 MILES. $800. CALL We are ... J.B.I We are ... J.B.I 
CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING INCLUDES 2 TICKETS TO GAME, $350 PLEASE HELP. ME OUT· I NEED 1 NOON, SATURDAY SOUTH QUAD ABLE FOR HOME GAME WEEKENDS. 
-FOR RENT I ~-~:~~-~~:................................................ John Blasi is an attitude. CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING AT X 2153. 
FOR WEEKEND. CALL 219-272-2720. MIAMI STU. TIXIII SSSS Ill CALL JOHN 
Ha's not a certain place or time.
I NEED 8 PENN STATE GA'S RITA 2798 NEED AIDE TO MASSACHUSETTS 
He's just a way of life.
LROO-M-FO_R_R-ENT-.-C-LO-SE_T_,O SELLING 2 STUDENT AIR FORCE TIX FOR OCT. BREAK. WILL PAY!ORIVE.
I I
TICKETS 
CALL ALLAN X4296 CAMPUS. FOR INFO CALL CHRIS 
SELLING 1 STUD MIAMI TIX IF INTER· CALL 1283 

ESTED, CALL CHRISTINE '4814 x1073 CORRINE, HAPPY TWO WEEKSII I
WONDERFUL FAMILY TO VISIT New Jersey is an attitude.
TIX 4 SALE
DOMER SLOB! It's not a certain place or time. It's just a 
THINK YOU'RE GREAT. LEN P.S.GIVE I need 3 G'A'a to AIR FORCE. way of life. There, two guys who live this 
I NEED TWO STANFORD TIX 1 STU. MIAMI & 1 STU. AIR FORCE 
USA"B"II Call Chris after 8:00P.M. x3319 att~ude picked up thair reporters'PREFERABLY 1 STUD AND 1 GA CALL 
BEST OFFER· X4179 MARIA SMC 4349 
House on Allen St. has a roommate notebooks and, in the Spring of 1988, NEED 2 MIAMI TIX. WILL TRADE 2
opening. 1 male roommate needed. Will formed what was to become THE NEWS HEY ROCK-
Cold Cash Warm Loving HOT SEX Will PENN STATE $$$. CALL (215) 288­

have own bedroom, washar & dryer, mi· NEED GA nx FOR ANY/ALL FOOT· DEPARTMENT. WILL THEY REALLY LET SOMEONE
do anything for 2 Miami students or GAs 0988 ANYTIME. CALL COLLECT.

BALL GAME(S). CALL TOM 272-oo58. 
crowave, cable t.v. and dishwasher. Rent 

CANDACE 287·5758 WITH A RECORD INTO THE is $150 a month plus util~ies. This is a $$$$$ 
NEED 2 MIAMI TIX. WILL TRADE 2 BROTHERHOOD?II
great place I Call Jeff, Roger, or Brian at Maureen "Mad Poodle" Gallagher 
287·7752. Need 2 or 4 GAs·ANY HOME GAME 
PENN STATE $$$. CALL (215) 288­x2707 Melissa NEED STANFORD GAs: call Jeff at 3151 I SURE HOPE NOT.
0988 ANYTIME. CALL COLLECT. FURNISHED 2-BDRM. HOME & for top offer. HELP!I NEED A RIDE TO ANYWHERE ROOMS NEAR CAMPUS. 272.QOII. Hi:LP HELP HELP need five STAN· NEED MIAMI TIX IN MASSACHUSETTS FOR OCT. I NEED 4 STANFORD GA'S. PLEASE BREAK. WILL HELP PAY&DRIVE.CALL 
2 GA-3 Stud ·Mike, FORD GA'S Tony # 2020 CALL ROD AT 289·4315 call 272·3767 I know I've said this before, but you
do your parents need a place to stay for BART x1059. 
mean a lot to me and I appreciate all you football weekends? try tha "irish bed & I NEED STANFORD GA's do. Thanks for being so special. Sorry I

breakfast" ··located 2 miles from n.d. for I need at least 2 Stanford GA's HELPI It's Paige again, and I need an· 
info. ring 272· 7738 Cell Kan at# 3122 othar ride to Milwaukee, spec~ically Mar·
I NEED STANFORD GA's misspelled Terry. No matter who we're BIG $$$$$$$$'S CALL ED 1753 g'ing s from, I'm glad we're friends.
I NEED MIAMI STUDS. BRIAN 2131 quette Univers~. I'd love to pay your gas BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219-and tolls. If anyone is leaving the morning 
c 

WANTED: 2 PENN ST GA'S. TRISH 
x4003 291-7153. Selling Stanford ticket: call 234-9138, I have 10 Miami GA's ·Need I say more. of Sat. Ocl. 1 and returning Sun. Ocl. 2, 

after 6:00 p.m. Leave best offer at 284·5225. please call x2923. 
see PERSONALS, page 13 

-
Thursday, September 29, 1988 The Observer page 11 
NVA announces deadlines 
Sports Briefs 
The ND crew team will have a meeting Ahorsebackrldlngtripisbeingsponsored for all members tonight at 8 p.m. in room 343 by Non-Varsity Athletics for Sunday, Oct. 2. of Nieuwland Science Hall. The crew team of-Trail rides cost $10, and transportatibn will be ficers will hold a meeting at 8 p.m. tonight, also provided. Buses will leave the library cir~I~ at in room 343 of Nieuwland Science Hall. -The 11 a.m., 12:35 p.m. and 2:10p.m. each ndmg Observer session lasting one hour. Limited spaces are 
Stepan Court time requests now are being available, and one must. register and pay in taken to reserve a court for your adv.ance. at .the NVA office. The deadhne for hall/organization. Please pick up an application regtstermg IS Sept. 30. -The Observer in the Student Activities Office in 315 LaFor­tune. The deadline for applying is Sept. 30. -The Observer 
coming in at a mediocre 25:24 of the premier runners m the 
Special to the Observer 
Non-Varsity Athletics has announced that Oct. 5 is the 
deadline  for  the following  
events:  
Men's,  women's,  and  

gradfaculty volleyball--Rosters of no less than seven members. Elimination tournaments. For men's and women's, all players must represent the same hall. Halls may submit more than one roster. Men's, women's, and gradfaculty racquetball--Singles tournaments with no classifica­Handball--Singles tournament for advanced, intermediate and novice players. Co-Ree lnnertube Water Polo-­Open tourney, limited to first 32 entries. $10 entry fee. Notre Dame students only. Roster must have a minimum of 10 players, four of which must be female. Water Polo Club mem­hers not eligible, and no more than two varsity swimmers per team. Co-Ree Basketball--Elimination tourney with loser's bracket. Roster should have five men of same hall and five women from 
tion of players. Best of three any halls. Three women and at the Indiana Intercollegiate. district. games--21 points per game. two men will be on the court Things hit rock bottom in his His solid performance
Markezich 

Badminton--Open tourney, no for both teams at all times. continued from page 16 sophomore year when he was against Georgetown earlier divisions. Double elimination. Men are not allowed in the tripped by another runner in this season picked up where he Equipment and rules provided. three-second area. place in their opening meet the NCAA District IV meet, left off last season andagainst Georgetown on Sept. 
twisting his ankle and forcing previewed things to come. 

---------------. 10, with times of 24:56 over five him to leave the race. This for­"Ron is living up to the ex­
miles. 

feiture helped cause a very pectations that I had when he
"Our goal is always to get as 

poor Irish finishing of 15th in came as a freshman," said
esume 
many kids under 25 minutes 

the district. Piane. "He's a fine performer, 
(over a distance of five miles) 

Mter that season, Markezich an excellent trainer, and now
as possible," said Piane. "If we 

made the conscious decision to is racing extremely well. Ron
had seven under 25 minutes, we 

turn it around and train hard. is an excellent leader." 
would win." 

Service 
The results were immediately As for goals for this season,
As in every meet, one of the 

visible, including the shaving Markezich is not exactly the
For a re;ume that can do tl1e job, 
key performances will be by 

of more than a full minute off type to set himself on numbers.
Ron Markezich, a senior out of
depend on Kinko's. 

of his 25:24 Indiana Intercol­"I haven't made any individual 
Williamsville, N.Y. 

legiates time with a time of goals," he said, "I just want to
• Fine Stationery • Matching Envelopes 
Markezich came into Notre 

24:21 in 1987. help out the team.
Dame as a hot prospect with 

In 1986 he finished 21st in the "Our ultimate goal is nation­
much promise. The high school 

Indiana meet, and in 1987 he als, and to do well you have to
kinko•s~ 
star consistently finished 

finished third. have three runners in the top
among the top collegiate run­
the copy center 

"I guess you have to go 20 and two in the top 10." 
ners as a freshman. 

through the bad times to get to But right now Markezich is
However, he experienced a
18187 State Road 23 

the good ti~es," said taking one meet at a time.
"sophomore slump" in 1986, 

Markezich. "I think that whole "I just go out and run the best 
with his best clocking that year 

(sophomore) season was a low I can, looking for improvement 
point of both my individual per­formance and the performance of the team." 
At last year's District IV meet where he was tripped and i~jured just a year earlier, Markezich finished eighth with a 30:30 time for 10,000 meters (about 6.2 miles), which solidified his reputation as one 
SUB PRESEI7S: 
SEAi\f CONNERY MARK HARMON 
===THE.========~==~ 
PRESIDIO 
1RD[(J0®[[p 8:00 & 10:15 

Cushi~Audilorium ~o(ill) 
0.8.-Soviet Relations: 
Two Journalists' Views 
a discussion with Phil Donahue (American Talk Show Host) Vladamir Pozner (Top Soviet Commentator) 
WHEN: Thursday October 6th 8 to 10 p.m. WHERE: JACC TICKETS: $4-ND & SMC students, faculty & staff 
$6-adults 
Tickets should be purchased in advance. Now On Sale M-F 9-5 Gate 10 JACC 
Also will be sold in the dining halls 
in every meet," he said. "The same goes for the team. We're looking to improve in every meet. until nationals, like we 
did last year." 
Markezich was indeed one of the leaders in the extraordi­nary seventh-place finish in the NCAAs last year, catapulting Notre Dame from obscurity to one of the nation's best. 

Kibelstis 
continued from page 16 "We were seventh in this race last year," he said. "We will have to run well to be seventh again, but I don't think we'll do any worse than that." Connelly wants his team to run better as a pack, a problem he observed during the first meet against Georgetown. "This is a team sport and we need at least seven people 
(runmng together)," he said. ''Against Georgetown, I think a lot of people were willing to let them get away. But we're getting better. We've had some good workouts." 
The strength of the opponents has Connelly wishing that Kibelstis is able to race on Friday. Kibelstis came in seventh against Georgetown and was the third Irish runner to cross the finish line. She has contributed greatly to the team and has earned the respect of 
her teammates and coaches. 
Kibelstis, a senior, ran cross country in high school but didn't try out for the Notre Dame team until it gained var­sity status three years ago. 
"I was a walk-on and I was intimidated because the workouts were so intense," she said. "But discipline and effort pay off in this sport. That's one of the things I like about it." 
Irish coaches have been glad Kibelstis persevered because she has helped to promote the team in its infancy as a varsity sport at Notre Dame. 
"She has been a pleasant surprise for me as a new coa­ch," said Connelly. "She's a 
tough kid who wants to com­pete." 
Last year, stress fractures in both thighs sidelined Kibelstis for half of the season. This was a frustrating time for the Al­lentown, Pa., native, who had been looking forward to a suc­cessful season, but she came back after the injury and raced well. Now she is excited to be a part of a competitive team. 
"Nobody expects much from 

us," she said. "I think we'll 
surprise a lot of people." 
-

---------~----~------­
page 12 The Observer Thursday, September 29, 1988 
,­
For Thanksgiving 
$400 
Round triJ! airfare 
Lod,ln_g
Game icliets 
Spots are still available Come Thursday September 29th 6-9pm 
O'Hara Lounge 1st Floor Lafortune At this time all contracts must be signed & all final payments are due 
Olympic roundup 

Women's basketball wins 77-70 

Associated Press 
SEOUL --U.S. women did what the men couldn't do in basketball, America's can-do boxers conjured memories of Montreal, and Jackie Joyner­Kersee won her second gold medal Thursday at the Seoul Olympics. 
Joyner-Kersee, who also won the heptathlon, added the wo­men's long jump title with a leap of 24 feet, 3 1-2 inches, breaking her own Olympic mark of 23-10 314, set in winning the heptathlon in 1984. 
Heike Drechsler of East Ger­many won the silver with 23-8 314, and the bronze went to Galina Christiakova of the So­viet Union at 23-4. 
The U.S. women beat the Yugoslavs 77-70 for the Olym­pic title, some measure of con­solation for Wednesday night's 82-76loss to the Soviet Union in the men's semifinal. Teresa Edwards had 18 points for the Americans. 
The Soviet women got the bronze. 
Michael Carbajal of Phoenix, Ariz., Kennedy McKinney of Killeen, Texas, and Ray Mer­cer of Jacksonville, Fla., be­came the first three U.S. boxers into the finals, and three more were knocking on the door after making the semis. 
Carbajal scored a 4-1 deci­sion over Robert Isaszegi of Hungary in the 106-pound class, and McKinney stopped Phajol Moolson of Thailand in the first round of their 119-pound bout. 

"The competition is there, but I'm not giving them a chance," McKinney said. "I'm just blowing them away." 
Mercer, at 27 the oldest man on the team, battered European champion Arnold Vanderlijdge of Holland and stopped him in the second round of their 201-tJound bout. 
"He really didn't have any heart," Mercer said, "and I was going to take what heart he had." 
Romallis Ellis of Ellenwood, Ga., lost a unanimous decision to Andreas Zuelow of East Ger­many in the 132 pound semi­final, and Kenneth Gould of Rockport, Ill., dropped a 4-1 decision to Lauraent Boudouani. 
Both will get bronze as con­solation, and still lined up were Riddick Bowe, Roy Jones and Andrew Maynard--waiting to challenge the record of the fabled seven who won five gold, one silver and one bronze in 1976. 
With eight fighters reaching the semifinals, the United States already was guaranteed more boxing medals than it earned in Montreal --it was just a matter of what kind they would be. 
A doctor for the Canadian Centre for Doping in Montreal, meanwhile, revealed Wednes­day that Johnson's male hor­mone levels were so low when he won the 100 meters in Seoul that it could only have been from extended steroid use. 
Johnson was stripped of the gold medal when he tested pos­itive for steroids, but his agent had said the sprinter was sabotaged by a stranger with a bottle of "sport drink" contain­ing a "gooey yellow substance" that smelled bad. 
The coordinator of doping control here also said Johnson admitted he took three medica­tions, one of them by injection, before his race. One of them was a partially banned cor­ticosteroid which "could be suspicious," Dr. Lee In-joon said. 
The Soviet Union defeated the United States 82-76 in their first Olympic basketball meeting since the controversy of 1972. The United States now has lost only two of its 87 Olym­pic games, both to the Soviets. 
And Lewis lost the 200 meters to teammate and friend Joe DeLoach. Lewis won the long jump and got the 100-meter gold when Johnson was stripped for taking steroids. He still has the 400-meter relay, but the best he can do now is three gold, not four like L.A. 
On Thursday, a silver medal­winning weightlifter from Hun­gary became the eighth athlete caught using drugs. Andor Szanyi, who finished second in the 100-kilogram class, tested positive for the same drug Johnson used, stanozolol, and was stripped of his medal. 
~~ 

AP Photos Two gold medals: Jackie Joyner-Kersee (above) set an Olympic long jump record Thursday, and the U.S. baseball team (below) 
celebrates after beating Japan 5-3 In the final game Wednesday. 
~ ,.--,...", 





-
~-----~~~----------... 

Thursday, September 29, 1988 The Observer page 13 
Sox lose again; Brewers rally, close lead to 2 112 
Associated Press Hurst walked Rob Ducey-­Orioles 2, Yankees 0 Athletics 5, Twins 2 the ninth-place batter in the THE RACE BOSTON --The Boston Red Toronto lineup--on a 3-2 pitch e..t BALTIMORE --Rookie Bob MINNEAPOLIS --Rookie 
w L Pet. GB

Sox stumbled again Wednes­to start the eighth. With one out Milacki pitched a three-hitter Todd Burns pitched six-hit ball 
Boston 88 70 .557 day night in their bid to clinch and Kelly Gruber batting, Milwaukee 86 73 .541 2.5 and struck out 10 as the last­for 7 2-3 innings and the Oak­
New York 84 73 .535 3.5

the American League East as Ducey stole second and contin­place Baltimore Orioles beat land Athletics beat Minnesota
Detroit 85 74 .535 3.5Jimmy Key pitched a two-hitter ued to third when Gedman Toronto 84 75 .528 4.5 New York 2-0 Wednesday 5-2 Wednesday night, ending 
and the Toronto Blue Jays par­threw the ball into center field. night, frustrating the Yankees' the Twins' five-game winning
Wedneeday'a Reaulla layed catcher Rich Gedman's Gruber then hit a sacrifice fly Baltimore 2, New York 0 hopes of climbing closer to the streak. Toronto 1, Boston 0
error into a 1-0 victory and a to center. American League East lead.
Cleveland 4, Detron 2 three-game sweep. Milwaukee 4, California 3 
Key, 12-5, outdueled Bruce Brewers 4, Angels 3 Indians 4, Tigers 2 Cardinals 2, Pirates 1
Thuraday'a Gamn Hurst, 18-6, who allowed only New York at Baltimore Boston at Cleveland
five hits but was victimized MILWAUKEE --Bill CLEVELAND --Greg Swin­PITTSBURGH --Joe when Gedman's throwing error Schroeder hit a three-run dell and Doug Jones combined Magrane lowered his National in the eighth inning set up an homer and Jim Gantner singled ican League East lead. on an eight-hitter and the League-leading earned run unearned run. Boston's magic home the go-ahead run as the Chuck Crim, 7-6, got one out Cleveland Indians beat Detroit average to 2.18 and Pedro number for winning the divi­Milwaukee Brewers rallied in in the seventh for the victory. 4-2 Wednesday night to leave Guerrero homered as the St. sion remained at three and the the seventh inning to beat the Paul Mirabella pitched two the Tigers on the verge of elim­Louis Cardinals beat the Pit­Red Sox close the season with California Angels 4-3 and move perfect innings for his fourth ination in the American League tsburgh Pirates 2-1 Wednesday four games in Cleveland. within 2 1t2 games of the Amer-save. East race. night. 
SEE MIAMI HEY YOUIII
FALL FESTIVAL To All in the CHICAGO VAN EXCURSION ·(that'sI know you want to be at the game when they GET ARE YOU TIRED OF THOSE FOOTBALL CON·
FALL FESTIVAL you Gary, Gino, Kenny, Pete, Pete, Brendan, Matt, CRUSHED by the Irish. I've got a student ticket lor CESSISTANDS THAT HAVE NOTHING TO OFFER 
FALL FESTIVAL "Herbie", Sammy, "EJ", Cashman, "Fiynnie", Ann
Personals 
ule. BUT BURGERS, BROTS, AND INDIGESTION?
FALL FESTIVAL

CALL 284-4322 alter 6 pm. THIS SATURDAY CHECK OUT THE NATIVEcontinued from page 1 0 AMERICAN STAND IN FRONT OF O'SHAG -BE 
WENDY SEAGER! 

CULTURALLY DIVERSE-TRY OUR INDIAN FRY TO THE LONG HAIRED BLONDE WHO RIDES A BREAQ. AND REMEMBER... SATURDAY 
THE DROUGHT IS OVER! KC HAS SCORED AND How's the first year at SMC going so far? 
SCORED BIGI THE ONLY QUESTION NOW IS Been falling-down-drunk lately? 
BLUE TEN-SPEED, LIVES IN P.E.. AND WORKS O'SHAG
WHERE ARE YOUR SHOES? 
Give me a call sometime and we'll party the weekend 

IN THE DINING HALL--LOOK FOR THE TEEPEE 
I AM DYING TO FIND OUT WHO YOU ARE II away!
JAMES JOSEPH FITZGERALD WE KNOW Your summer buddy.
RESPOND HERE SO I CAN SEND YOU YOU'RE THE ONE AND IT WAS LOTS OF FUN! 
MARK

FLOWERS I I NEED A RIDE TO U. OF ILLINOIS FOR BREAK!
THE ROSES ARE IN FULL BLOOM AND TOOK
--A LOVER OF LONG HAIR $ JENNIFER 2521
AWAY THE DAY'S GLOOM. WE APPRECIATE YOUR THOUGHTFULNESS SO WE ARE SEALING We're so glad KnPI Love, your adorable roommates Sammy the Sand Brethen has his Stanford TX but
THIS THANK YOU NOTE WITH A KISS! LOVE TWO AIR FORCE student tix FOR SALE YOUR TWO BUDS MEG AND MEGAN PS FEEL 
Drew needs two Miami GAs. 288·6207 have BIG CALL 284·4322 Steve--! miss you. Still friends? Laura $$$$
FREE TO SEND MOREIIIIIIIII 
The American Express• Card gets an outstanding welcome 
virtually anywhere you shop, whether it's for a leather jacket or a leather-bound classic. Whether you're bound for a bookstore or a beach in Bermuda. So during college and after, it's the perfect way to pay for just about everything you'll want. 
How to get the Card now. College is the first sign of success. And because we believe in your potential, we've made it easier to get the American Express Card right now. Whether you're a freshman, senior or grad student, look into our new automatic approval offers. For details, pick up an application on campus. Or call!-800..THE-aRD and ask for astudent application. 
The American Express CareL Don't Leave School Without Itr' 

and Kelly); I wanted to print some memorable quotes of the night. esp. from you EJ, but I figured I'd be the only one to remember them ... so let me just say Thanks ... let's do II again. but next time, will someone else (PLEASE) drive??? 
-the chauffeur ot the "sweet" van 

Barb--Happy nineteenth! Cheer up, It gets better from here! Laura 
Rendy Bridgeman: 
The Chicago skyline was beautiful, wish 1could 
have been able to enjoy it more. Thank you tor a 
VERY happy birthdayll 
E"yak"abeth 

SL:;;:..:·,··ooNT'L'IKE..THE"FEE'LiNG'OF''MV''Eitr; 
TOCKS BEING EXPOSED" 
JOHNNY MC"OSCAR": WE LOVE A MAN WITH BLUE HAIR ON HIS CHEST. SEE VA AT 3 FOR SSt LUV I & J 
URBAN PLUNGE!! URBAN PLUNGE!! URBAN PLUNGE!! Daedllne lor ~OCT 3. 
DUANE IS GOING TO MICHIGAN MEDICAL SCHOOL CONGRATULATIONS OUDEIII IT WAS ALL WORTH IT!! 
Dear Mr. Call-I want to get your seurl upl Meet me at Stonehedge at 4:30 today yl Love, L 
SMC FALL FEST OCT 6 
ONLY A HUNDRED BUCKS, WHAT A OEALI ALMOST AS MUCH AS A FONDUE MEAL. SENT YOU COOKIES FED EXPRESS, NOW YOU HAVE A BIG FAT MESS! WHAT'LL HAPPEN? WAIT AND SEE. CAUSE IN ONE MORE DAY, THEN COMES KEL· LVI DON'T FORGET-BE HAPPYIII 
............................................................... 
MK YO'RE THE GREATEST! I LOVE YOUI MS 
P'ARAD'iSE''FCiUND'iti.AOB.. is··FiNALLY'2'1'i·········· 
To my Begonia Lover: Thanks tor everything. espe­cially the smiles you bring tb my lace. Even though you have 4 interviews, 4 tests and a paper this week, we could still do Atlantic City, couldn't we?l OK, I'll settle tor Gaugin in Chicago! Love and Kisses, your Government Major. 
TRUE ROMANTICIST, I GUESS ROMANCE REALLY ISN'T DEAD. YOU'VE IMPRESSED ME ONCE AGAIN. IMPRESS ME ONE MORE TIME, AND LET ME KNOW WHEN AND WHERE TO MEET YOU. ANXIOUSLY AWAITING YOUR REPLY--ONE. 
'WE ARE KNOTI GROWING UP!!" 
................................................. .... 
'WE ARE KNOTI GROWING UP II" Buy SYR fix BY MONDAY I 
Riot, Spilled Beer e Lake e Caramel Apple e Pumpkin Pie 
Thud-Brrm-Splash·ZZZZZ 
Smile 
Happy B-day 
l
Goofy 

GIVE ME A BREAK Ohio University awaltsllll Desparately need a ride to O.U. -Athens, Ohio tor 
j

Oct. break. Can leave ANYTIME.--$$$ no object. Please call Chris K2773 
HAP·py··;·g;:H··GazeFII'i.GUESS..TH,s IS oNe OF ~ 
THOSE THINGS THAT "FRIENDS" DO. THE WORD 
•
FALL FESTIVAL 
•
FALL FESTIVAL 
FALL FESTIVAL 
FALL FESTIVAL 
MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL 
1 
OCTOBER 3-9 l 
'''FIRESIDE CHATS._ j 
'''CULTURE ON THE QUAD''' 
'"ETHNIC ENTERTAINMENT'" 
'"JOSIAH REGGAE CONCERT'" 
I 
'"MAKEBA-MASEKELA CONCERT'" AND BIGGER AND BETTER THAN EVER ..... ""'A TASTE OF NATIONSIII'"" 
l

........................................................................... 
SMC FALL FEST OCT 6. 4:30-6:15 PICNIC FOR ALL (NO GET COXE'S IN DINING HALLS) 7 AND 9 SHE'S HAVING A BABY CARROLL AUD. $t AD· MISSION 9-1 FALL FEST GARDENS $1 ADMIS­SION, SOC. BEVERAGE (21 1.0.) 
................................................................... 

SMC FALL FEST OCT. 6 ...................................... . ....... . HEYY'ALL1:JILL. CP, SCUZ, AIM, & BILL (MY FAV BRO)I I HAD A GREAT B-DAYrTHANKS FOR EVERYTHING-YOU GUYS ARE THE BESTIXOXO LYNN 

-
page 14 The Observer Thursday, September 29, 1988 
Dream comes true in his own back yard 
,

Starting punter Sexton walked on team 

AftEN,.ION S,.UDEN'rS!! AftEN'riON S'rUDEN'rS!! 
NO,.RE DAME'S DEVELOPMEN,. PHONE CEN,.ER NOW HIRING 
(Located in Badin Ball) 
75 Student Positions Available $4.50 Per Hour Flexible evening hours: 7:15-10:30; Some daytime hours 
All interested are invited to an informal Open House I Information Session at the Development Phone Center October 5 from 7:00..Q[Tl-8:00pmPLEASE JOIN US 
By FRANK PASTOR 
Sports Writer 
For Irish punter Jim Sexton, 
it was just a dream. 
The lifelong South Bend res­
ident remembers selling game 
programs outside Notre Dame 
Stadium as a youth and dream­
ing of one day playing football 
for the Irish team that graced 
their covers. 
But when the time came to 
select a college, Sexton feared 
his prospects of playing for 
Notre Dame were distant at 
best. 
"It was a dream to play for 
Notre Dame," Sexton recalls. 
"But it seemed so out of reach. 
I figured I'd have to go to a 
smaller school. But then, as I 
improved my receiving and 
punting skills, I thought I might 
have a chance." 
A star tight end, punter and 
kicker at St. Joseph's High 
School, the 6-0,188-pound soph­
omore tried out for split end at 
Notre Dame's spring practice 
session. One play in particular 
forced Sexton to reassess his 
position choice. 
"I was running a fly route for 
Tony Rice," Sexton remem­
bers. "I took off down the 
sidelines and then turned 
around for the ball, but it was 
already sailing over my head. 
I didn't realize how far he could 
throw. That was the end of my 
career as a split end." 
Hershiser shatters record 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO --Orel Hershiser broke Don Drysdale's record of 58 consecutive scoreless in­nings, shutting out the San Diego Padres for 10 innings Wednesday night. 
Hershiser extended his streak to 59 innings, but his Los Angeles Dodgers were also un­able to score and the game was 0-0 through the lOth. 
Hershiser, trying for his sixth straight shutout, gave up just four hits and did not allow a runner past first base until the lOth. 
Marvell Wynne struck out to 
open the lOth but reached base 
on Hershiser's wild pitch. 
l 
Jim Sexton 

The only receptions Sexton will make this season are on those balls snapped by center Tim Grunhard from punt formation. Sexton emerged from spring practice as the starting punter for the Irish despite stiff competition from senior Pete Hartweger and former basketball player Sean Connor. 
"He was more consistent when we kicked in team peri­ods," said Coach Vinny Cer­rato, who works with the punters and placekickers in ad­dition to his duties as recruiting coordinator. "When we charted the punters in fall prac­tice, Jim was just more consis­tent than the others." 
According to Sexton, Head Coach Lou Holtz's idea of con­sistency entails punts of "40 yards with a 4.0 hang time." 
THE THOMAS J. .. ·---­
\ V l:HITE CENTER WFORLAWAND GOVERNMENT 
Nelle Dame Uw Sd100I 

Presents A Lecture By Professor Michael Olivas Director, Institute For Higher Education Law and Governance University of Houston On "Immigration 'Reform' and Education: The Changing Legal Status of Students in the U.S." Noon Friday, September 30 Room 220 Law School Courtroom 
The walk-on punter has met this criteria in his first three games, punting nine times for 382 yards, a 42.4-yard average. He has one punt over 50 yards and placed three others inside the opponent's 20-yard line. 
"He kicked awfully well in the Michigan game," said Cer­rato. "Against Michigan State and Purdue, there were much stronger winds and he didn't kick quite as far. Jim has progressed really well, but he still needs to work on his con­sistency.'' 
Sexton's early-season perfor­mance should at least momen­tarily quiet cynics contending he cannot replace fellow walk­on Vince Phelan, who graduated last spring. Phelan currently ranks as Notre Dame's career leader in net punting yards with a 40.9-yard average. 
If there is one aspect of pun­ting Sexton surely does not care for, it is tackling opposing punt returners that elude Notre Dame's coverage team. Against Purdue, he forced one runner out of bounds to deter a possible touchdown return. 
"I don't like to make tackles on punt returns," says Sexton. "But if I have to, then I do it. I mean, I don't even wear pads. I don't wear anything to protect my hands, and I have those K­Mart shoulder pads." 
Perhaps, but he also has that long-awaited spot on the team. 

For more information, call Carol McClory, 239-7938 
,­

2"hursday, September 29, ~ 988 The Observer page 15 
AMPUS . ·· . 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
5:30 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents a reception for all accountancy, financy, and MBA stu­dents interested in careers with Pittsburgh National Bank, Notre Dame Room, LaFortune. 
6:30 
p.m. Hesburgh Program in Public Service Orien­tation and open house, 115 O'Shaughnessey. 

6:30 
p.m. SUB Special Events Committee meeting in the Notre Dame Room, LaFortune. All interested should attend. 


7:00 p.m. Meeting for all those interested in Latin America, sponsored by the Kellogg Institute, Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
8:00 p.m. SUB Campus Entertainment meeting in the SUB offices, LaFortune. All interested should attend. 
10:00 p.m. Campus Perspectives presents Tom Doyle and Mike Paese, Student Body President and Vice­President, on WVFI AM 640. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Gyro Turkey Cutlet Honey Glazed Chicken Beef Stir Fry Meatloaf Rice & Spinach Bake Stuffed Shells Deli Bar 
COMICS 
Bloom Co~nty 
ACROSS 
1 This may turn 5 Help a hood 9 Senseless? 
13 Eyelayer 14 Plant life 15 To you, Pierre! 16 Pupil's ordeal 17 Happy as-­18 Lizard: Comb. 
form 19 LA. campus 20 Small opening 21 Used acid 23 Ab successor 25 Labor safety 
org. 26 Doubleday and Li'l 
28 Amanda of "A Year in the Life" 
32 ~ all asleep 33 Like a 
paleface? 34 To, in Dundee 35 Algerian port 36 Rajah's wife 38 Simon-­
(authentic) 39 Rather 40 This can put 
you in a bind 41 Feathered 43 What dare­
devils go to 45 Kappa chaser 46 Participial 
endings 47 Soviet stream 48 You, right now 51 Round of 
applause 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 



53 Old French coin 
56 Steinbeck migrant worker 
57 "-Came Jones," I 945 movie 
59 "Down with le roi!" 60 Jamie who sounds distant 61 Marie Sklodowska­
62 Guitar's cousin 63 Words from the pro group 64 A Gabor and a Peron 65 Mr. Hoople 
DOWN 
I Garb for Susan Jaffe 2 Currier's partner 3 Next­generation 
II Grimace 28 Glazier's 44 Carson's 
member 
12 Larry of the wares stand-in, once 4 Tuck away N.B.A. 48 Parlor ptece
29 Inept boxer
5 "-Want 49 Give the green
14 Loses favor 
for Christmas 30 Displayed light
20 Shoot the curl 
scull skill 50 Luigi's funds 
" 22 People,
6 Luggeror generally 31 "-body 51 "-fugit" 52 Flavoring for a 
hooKer 24 Ames or Uris cry?": Burns 
Nice cordial 

7 Slipup 
25 Platinum wire 37 Gibraltar 
54 First Trium­

8 Bets big loop denizens 
virate foe 

9 Racing 26 Positive 
38 Moutain lion 55 Applications 
acronym 
terminal 58 Lemmon film:
40 Coty or Clair Valley site merchandise 42 Bedeck 59 Mode leaders 
I 0 A Monument 27 Shoddy I967 

D!~!:ll r GJGI-IT 1t> t>.T lfA'Sr ~~­M~ Ov-1~. 

Calvin and Hobbes 
I-IOBB£5. LOOK ! 0,\0 Q:lT 
Ill£ M~ Cl~N ~IR Of 
UTI\.£ BINOCUlARS! 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Bill' Watterson 
DAD SMI> fl.S LOt{(; ~~ l ~~ GO\tiG 'ID BREtt..~ BINCl<.UlA9S, 





SPONSORED BY STUDENT UNION BOAR 
Sports
Thursday, September 29, 1988 !)age 16 
Wisconsin edges Saint Mary's 
Goal with 30 seconds left in OT gives SMC first loss 
By MOLLY MCNEILL Sports Writer 
When time ran out, and the final shot went wide, the Belles were dealt their first loss of the season. 
The Saint Mary's soccer team lost in the last thirty seconds of the second overtime 1-0, to nationally-ranked Wis­consin. 
Though the Badgers won the game, Saint Mary's had the better of the play in the field. 
"The score did not indicate who really won the game,'' said Belles coach Tom Van Meter. 

"We truly dominated the entire game, until the last second ticked away. This same Wis­consin team beat us 5-0 last year, so we've come a long way." 
The Belles out shot Wisconsin 25 to 14, and goalie Lisa Carter turned in an outstanding per­formance, stopping 11 shots. 
Mollie Meehan lead the Belles' offensive attack, test­ing the Wisconsin goalie seven different times. 
"I was really pleased with our performance," said Van Meter. "We were pushed to the limit and we responded." 
Van Meter and the team are looking ahead to Friday's game against Notre Dame, an­ticipating a very emotional, well matched contest. 
"It won't be easy, but hope­fully we'll come out on top," said Van Meter. 
The Belles will travel across the road to fac& Notre Dame in a 5 p.m. contest at Krause Stadium. This match represents the first meeting of the two teams since Notre Dame's team was promoted to varsity level. 

Irish cross country hosts National Catholic meet 
Markezich beats sophomore slump 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 

The men's cross country team, com­ing off of a three-week rest, will play host to the ninth annual National Cath­olic Championships Friday at the Burke Memorial Golf Course at 4 p.m. 
The meet, conceived by 14th-year Irish coach Joe Piane and first imple­mented in the fall of 1980, is a compe­tition of the premier cross country teams of Catholic universities across the country. Notre Dame has won the tournament twice in eight years, in 1983 and 1984. 
This year the National Catholic meet will be attended by 26 men's teams, amongst them defending champion Loyola (Ill.) and newcomer Provi­dence, two NCAA contenders of 1988. 
In order to be effective against this type of competition, the Irish are going to need top notch performances from ·an seven of their runners, but in par­ticular from the top three. High finishes are expected from senior captain Dan Garrett, senior Ron Markezich and junior Mike O'Connor. 
Garrett and Markezich tied for first 
see MARKEZICH, page 11 


Mike O'Connor (center) and Ron Markezlch (right) lead the Notre Dame men's cross country team. 
Kibelstis uses discipline, effort 
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's cross country team will battle some very strong opponents as well as two key injuries Friday when it participates in the National Catholic meet at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
The National Catholics should prove to be an exciting meet because the Irish will be contending in a field of 20 teams, including defending Division III cham­pion St. Thomas of Minnesota, Boston College and Providence, which Notre Dame women's coach Tim Connelly describes as one of the best teams in the country. 
Notre Dame will be without at least one and possibly two of its top runners. Sophomore Jenny Ledrick, who sat out the first meet against Georgetown, has not recovered from her injury and will 
-not compete. Also, Terry Kibelstis is questionable because of a strained calf muscle. Connelly, who had earlier predicted a fifth place finish or better for the Irish, is hopeful that these in­juries will not affect the team too much. 
see KIBLESTIS, page 11 

Stanford passing attack could mean 4th-week trouble 
Head Coach Lou Holtz is leery of any opponent on any game day. 
Ask him about his chances on any given Saturday and he'll paint his squad. as the underdog, even against the likes of Purdue. 
Add a dash of unfamiliarity with the opposing team and the fact that it's the fourth week of the season, and he gets downright fearful. 
· "Southern Cal might very well be the second-best team in the country," said Holtz. "Southern Cal beat Stanford in the last minute and 16 seconds, 24-20. Stanford led most of the game until then and made USC make some throws and catches under a great deal of pressure late in the game. "Oregon may very well be the third-best team in the country, and the reason I say that is that after Washington State dismantled Illinois and Minnesota by forty-some points each, lo and behold, Oregon beat Washington State 43-28, and then barely got by Stanford last week 7-3. So, for all I know, Stanford might be the No.4 team in the country." Come on, Lou. Stanford? So UCLA comes in at what, 15th? "They (Stanford) have probably been the most impressive team I've seen on film so far this year," said Holtz. Truth be told, the Cardinal do pose a threat to the Irish, if for no other reasons than that this is 
the dreaded fourth week of the season and that Stanford deploys the unorthodox run-and-shoot offense--the likes of which Notre Dame will not see for the rest of the year. 
First, remember this time last year when visions of an Orange Bowl bid were shattered in the rain at unranked Pitt? Or two years ago when any faint bowl hopes were squashed at Alabama? Holtz does. 
Pete Skiko 
Football Notebook 


"We certainly haven't played very well in the fourth week of the season," said Holtz. "It's some­thing that concerns me and, for this team, it dates back to before I got here. I don't know what it is. You're not going to be up all the time, especially after opening against three tough Big Ten opponents every year. Mid-terms are rolling around, too. It's just something we've got to get over." 
Second, the Stanford run-and-shoot method doesn't exactly sneak up on you like Michigan's does or Michigan State's would if its offense would show up during the game. It attacks all the time, usually sending two split ends and two flankers (and no tight ends) out into pass patterns while a lone, very dangerous running back (junior Jon Volpe) can either run the draw or catch the swing pass out of the backfield. 
The Cardinal will not hesitate to use gadget plays (end-arounds, flea-flickers, etc.) to try to keep the normally hard-pursuing Irish defense honest. Holtz fears that, too. 
"We know that their offense is very effective," he said, "and that it is based at least in part on deception. It's hard to evaluate it fully because we really don't have any common opponents." 
Yet this super-effective, gadget-laden offense mustered only three points at Oregon last week. Not bad considering the Ducks could very well be the third best team in the country. 
Irish running back Tony Brooks may see action at both tailback and fullback because of injuries to Mark Green (slightly strained knee) and Braxston Banks (torn knee ligaments). Green will be ready for Saturday; Banks will not. 


