

Sound Familiar?
/ACCENT: Big BrotherSIBig Sisters award 
Chance of rain today, high in 
the 50s. More showers 
Thursday, with a high of 60.
IVIEWPOINT: Arab myths shattered 

VOL. XXI, NO. 126 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Dukakis se1zes NV w1n 
Associated Press "going to be unified" for the •Jackson had 411,230 or 33 per­fall campaign. cent. 
NEW YORK --Michael Vice President George Bush •Gore had 135,454 or 11 percent. Dukakis swept to a convincing won the Republican primary, "I think we have a nominee," victory over Jesse Jackson in with no serious opposition in said Lynn Cutler, deputy chair the New York primary Tues­New York or elsewhere. He told of the Democratic National da~ night and seized control reporters he thought Dukakis Committee. She said Dukakis over the turbulent race for the was a "good bet" to go on and now "has to be very careful not Democratic presidential capture the Democratic to look as though it's a done nomination. nomination and said he was deal ... There is a tendency in eager to join the battle with the Democratic Party to slap"I love New York," the Mas­whatever opponent the the hand of the front-runner." 
sachusetts governor crooned in Democrats gave him. A Gore withdrawal would a victory statement prepared 
leave Dukakis the only white for a hotel rally in midtown candidate left in the race Manhattan. "Friends, if we can against Jackson --a match-upmake it here we can make it that seems virtually certain to 
anywhere." 
deliver a string of primary vic­
Sen. Albert Gore finished a With 76 percent of the tories to the Massachusetts 
weak third and seemed likely precincts reporting, the Demo­governor in the six final weeks to quit the race on Thursday. cratic vote looked this way: of the campaign season. Pen-He congratulated Dukakis and • Dukakis had 671,494 or 53 per­

said the Democratic party was cent. see DUKAKIS, page 6 


Tensions remain in Persian Gulf
..-.. I 


Associated Press denied it. The United States Iran claimed its speedboats :_ gave American flags and in the southern gulf sank an MANAMA, Bahrain --A registration to 11 Kuwaiti "American naval logistical
·~·~··.,..
-.._ ~~ 

French warship spotted three tankers last year and the Navy ship," killing its crew, an hour 
:ow...~! 

'~ ·ti~ ~~-:Z;J~\t~~~ 
mines and Iranian speedboats escorts them through the gulf. after Navy ships destroyed two 
The Observer /Todd Tucker
It's the law raided two tankers Tuesday, President Reagan said Iranian oil platforms Monday. the day after battles in the things were quieter in the gulf The official Islamic Republic 
This strange character appeared in South Dining Hall last night to spread 
southern Persian Gulf in which Tuesday and "we hope it con­the news that seat belts are now mandatory in Indiana. These two startled Iran fired missiles from shore tinues that way." see IRAN, page 5students apparently have not heard. 
at U.S. Navy vessels. A marine executive said the gulf appeared "ghostly" from 

U.S. hostages threatened 


Kroc gift to build 
lack of shipping. He and others said commercial vessels were 
Associated Press The Revolutionary Justice avoiding the waterway, where 
Organization made the 
BEIRUT, Lebanon --A threat in a handwritten since September 1980 and the

Hesburgh Center 
Iran and Iraq have been at war 
pro-Iranian group claiming statement in ArabicBy MATT GALLAGHER project. Gilligan said that the to hold two American delivered after midnight to
U.S. Navy sank or damaged six 
Center would be completed ap­
Copy Editor 
hostages said Wednesday the independent daily news­
Iranian vessels Monday.
proximately two years after there would be "retaliations paper Al-Nahar in Beirut.
They also said the United
The Theodore M. Hesburgh ground is broken at a trustees and retaliations" for the Included with the statement
States had suspended escorts of
Center for International meeting on May 5, 1988. 
U.S. military action in the
Kuwaiti oil tankers temporar­
Studies, to be built on Green Conklin noted in an April 18th 
Persian Gulf. see HOSTAGE, page
ily, but Defense Department
Field, will open in May 1990, press release that the Hes­
spokesman Dan Howard
thanks to a gift of $6 million burgh Center would house both from the widow of McDonald's the Peace Institute and the founder Ray Kroc, said Direc­Helen Kellogg Institute for In­tor of Public Relations Richard ternational Studies. 
Ill 
Conklin. According to Conklin, the 
According to John Gilligan, new Center will be located on director of the Institute for In­Notre Dame Avenue, south of ternational Peace Studies, Joan the University Club, on Green Kroc donated the funds neces­sary for the completion of the see KROC, page 6 

SMC votes tallied 
•

1n hall elections 
By LISA MONTPETIT cent of the hall voted; of these, News Staff zero abstained. Forty-four percent of Holy 
Saint Mary's students, voting Cross Hall voted for one of for the first time under new three tickets. The elected offi­election rules written after the cers are: president Janet contentious student body elec­McNeil; vice president Tina tions, elected hall officers for Donahue; treasurer Angie 1988-89 in four dormatories. Rice and secretary Marie 
Flaherty. The ticket carried 59 The winner of the two ticket 
percent of the vote. race in Augusta Hall, president 
Stepping into office for 
Colleen Doyle, vice president LeMans Hall, president Beth Sue Bertucci, treasurer Mary 
Nowalk, vice president Meag­
Carol Buhrfiend, and secretary New at the Snlte 
han Nash, treasurer Patti Mary DeLany acquired 67 per­Budding artist Lisa Mruz tries out her skills in chalk nature of her art makes it all the more valuable, as cent of the votes. Fifty-six per-see ELECTION, page 6 as part of the An Tostal festivities. The temporary the Midwest is sure to serve up a good storm soon. 

The ObeeMtr I Todd Tucker 
Wednesday, April 20, 1988 
page 2 The Observer 

In Brief -
Moslem hijackers freed their hostages today from a Kuwaiti jet after saying that Algeria had offered a so­lution to the 15-day ordeal in which two people were killed and dozens terrorized. Algeria's Interior Minister, Hedi Khediri, said earlier: "A solution settling all the issues of the hijacking has just been reached." An estimated 35 hostages had been on the plane. He refused to give any details of the agreement. Asked by reporters clamoring on the steps of the Algiers airport VIP lounge what would become of the hijackers, he replied only: "That is a ques­tion which regards Algeria." -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Looking for Mr. Goodbar clues are in the Personals through Thursday of this week. If you think you have found him, please contact Julie Yoon at 283-1286 or Lisa Mruz at 283-1270.-The Observer 
Yearbooks have arrived. Students may pick up their 1988 Dome (with their student ID) next to LaFortune Stu­dent Center today through Friday from noon to 4 p.m.-The Observer 
"A Republic, Madam, If You Can Keep It," is the title of a lecture to be presented by Professor Forrest McDonald of the University of Alabama's Department of History. The lecture, co-sponsored by the Department of History and the Program of Liberal Studies, will be given today at noon in Room 220 Law SchooL-The Observer 
Senior Month booklets will be distributed today and Thursday from noon to 2 p.m. at the information desk on the first floor of LaFortune Student Center for off­campus seniors.-The Observer 
A campus wide blood drive will continue today through Thursday from 12:30 to 4 p.m. at the Knights of Columbus Hall. Those who have not signed up may drop by and give blood. The event is sponsored by Circle K and the Knights of Columbus.-The Observer 
Senior formal proofs will be on display in the lobby of LaFortune Student Center today at 5 p.m. through Mon­day at 5 p.m. For information contact Christopher Lowe at 239-5465.-The Observer 
A task force forum will be held'tonight to answer questions and hear responses regarding the residentiality and alcohol task force reports. The meetings will be held at 6:30p.m. at Dillon for Alumni and Dillon; and at 9 p.m. at Cavanaugh for Walsh, Sorin and Cavanaugh. -The Ob­server 
Marine Major William Lademan, a research fellow at the Naval War College in Providence, R.I., will lecture on "Power, Politics and Strategy" tonight at 7:30 in the Montgomery Theater in LaFortune Student Center.­
The Observer 
An information session sponsored by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education on issues that exist for stu­dents who have an alcoholic parent will be held at 7:30 
p.m. today in the Center for Social Concerns. -The Obser­ver 
Le Cercle Francais is looking for interested people to serve as officers or to work on special projects for next year. Contact Theresa at 277-8158 or Cathy at 283-2915 before April 25 for details.-The Observer 
The Ideas and Issues Committee of the Student Union Board has openings on the committee. For infor­mation, contact Bob at 283-1158 or 239-7757. -The Observer 
The Hangover 5k and lOk runs will be held as part of An Tostal on Saturday at 9:30 a.m. beginning in front of the Burke Memorial golf course. Registration will be at 9:10 a.m.-The Observer 
-Ih-e-0-bse.~~0l-­
-------.L-=-Y=-..... ---­
Design Editor .................. Rob Luxem Viewpoint Copy Editor ... Lisa O'Malley Design Assistant .. _.... _ Annette Rowland Accent Copy Editor... ... Susan Buckley Typesetters_.. . . Paul Brauweiler Accent Layout...... . . ..... Kathy Gliwa ................................ . ....Andy Schlidt Typist .. . . . . . . . .. . . . Will Zamer News Editor...................... Scott Bearby ND Day Editor .............. Kathy McKee Copy Editor.. ... Matt Gallagher SMC Day Editor .. ...... Liz Ryan Sports Copy Editor... .. Pete Gegen Photographer....... .. ........ Todd Tucker 
Tile at.ner (USPS ~99 2-<1000) is published Monday throu1h Friday except duri111 cum and vacation periods. Tile Oblener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($2~ per semester) by writina Tile Qblener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile Olllener is a member or Tile Aaodated Praa. All reproduction riJhts are reserved. 


Construction benefits found beyond fences 
Notre Dame has been building its rich tradi­
tion for 146 years. With a little help, it will con­
tinue to do so. But it seems the University of 
Our Lady has been building up its campus for 
almost as long. 
Construction on campus has reached a 
surprising rate. It's almost to the point of 
nuisance. Constricted space in North Dining 
Hall has forced lines out the doors. North Quad 
and the areas near Nieuwland Science Hall and 
new dorms Knott and Siegfried are unsightly. 
Students must be wary of mud, gravel and 
rough-hewn, but fortunately temporary, chain­
link fence. 
As inconvenient and unseemly as it may be, 
construction is a necessary evil. One day 
(maybe when we're all alumni) the Notre Dame 
campus will be the shining example of struc­
tural symmetry its architects envisioned. 
Gradually, we're getting there. 
One need only look at some of the existing 
buildings on campus to see that architectural 
success can be achieved, without compromising 
esthetics. 
The Dome, of course, is the most distinctive edifice on campus and is known worldwide as a symbol of the University. It may lack a little lustre·, but most alumni, students and visitors on campus can't help being moved at the sight of the Golden Dome. 
Catastrophe almost cost us that sight. The original Dome on top of the administration was destroyed by fire in 1879. Seven years later, a dedicated construction corps finished the Dome we know today. 
Other buildings on campus are impressive, too. Sacred Heart Church was one of the first projects undertaken by Father Edward Sorin when he founded the fledgling campus in 1842. Today Sacred Heart carries the distinction of being the tallest edifice on campus. 
Before his retirement in 1987, University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh said one of Notre Dame's best moves was build­ing the library that now bears his name. At 14 stories, the Hesburgh Library is an imposing structure and was the largest college library building when it was dedicated in 1963. 
The Hesburgh Library houses more than 1.6 million volumes and a large number of the stu­dent body on any given day. It's hard to imagine the campus without it. Yet at one time, students conducted research in the Architecture Build­ing. Where would students be today if new dorms like Knott and Siegfried weren't con-


THE WALLETS 
LIVE 
Minnesota Music Awards 
Best Rock Band -'85 and Rand of the Year -'84 
this Thursday night 9:30 at Theodore's 
LAST YEAR'S BIGGEST 
ATTRACTION IS BACK!! 



DON'T MISS IT! 

structe'W In fact, if the University stopped ex­panding its facilities in 1967, the Mod Quad wouldn't exist today. The campus would have been vastly different. 
LaFortune Student Center itself underwent considerable construction in 1986. The renova­tion took time and, at $6 million, a considerable amount of money. Look at it today --it's a stu­dent center Notre Dame can be (and is) proud of. 
There is one thing about LaFortune that bot­hers me, however. The red neon sign on the first floor that says Theodore's drives me (and, I'm told, many others) crazy. Although barely visible during the day, it's obnoxiously bright at night. It glares fuzzily out the window at everyone on the Main Quad. Moreover, it hums constantly. Still, I mean to make light of the situation. 
Construction is inconvenient. It is unsightly and it does make walking around campus a real pain, but it yields some terrific results. For now, we just have to put up with it. I'm confi­dent, though, someday we will see the fruits of the current construction labors and, though we complain now, we'll be happy. 


Wednesday, April 20, 1988 
. The Observer page 3 
HPC hears review of ND task force 
By DAN MURPHY Staff Reporter 
"If you wanted to have a beer outside your dorm, sitting around at a barbecue, it should be okay, accepted, as long as you're not causing problems as a result of drinking that beer," said former Student Body Pres­ident Pat Cooke at the Hall President's Council meeting Tuesday night. 
Cooke fielded questions ad­dressing the University Task Force report on alcohol and emphasized the importance of an attitude change concerning the use of alcohol. 
"It wasn't the goal of this committee to have, next year, nobody on campus drinking, rather four or five years down the road to have everybody in the community drinking responsibly," said Cooke. "So what we're talking about are attitude changes. There isn't a problem with alcohol in and of itself; it's the abuse of alcohol that we're trying to address." 
The proposed elimination of evening football games is not geared toward students but toward cutting down on the al­cohol consumption of alumni and visiting fans before the games, said Cooke. Fans ar­rive at the University the same time they would if the games began in the afternoon, he said. This allows them additional time to drink and increases the possibility of car accidents oc­curring after the game, accor­ding to Cooke. 
Ann Firth, director of 
residence life, answered ques­
tions dealing with the Task 
Force report on residentiality. She noted that the three models of co-ed dorms presented in the report were "not blueprints but starting points for discussion, recognizing that none of the models that we suggested were entirely satisfactory.'' 
Carroll Hall president Kevin Corazon questioned whether the proposal of posting a secur­ity guard at the front door of male dorms weekend nights showed a lack of trust toward male residents. "They have parietals, do we need another father figure to look after us?," asked Corazon. Firth said the proposal stemmed from con­cerns about security, protec­tion and easing the burden of the hall staff. 
Turning to other business, Chuck Neidhoefer addressed the HPC to explain the Jane M. Beres Memorial Leukemia Fund. Beres, the sister of Olympic speedskater Dan Jan­sen, died of leukemia hours before Jansen competed. 
Notre Dame will present a donation in the name of the stu­dent body the night before graduation commencement ceremonies begin, according to Neidhoefer. 


Yearbook twister  The ~/ToddTucker  
In a variation on the campus-favorite nude Twister,  ing  yearbooks.  Distribution  continues  through  
members of the Dome staff sort cards while distribut- Friday.  


Tri-military ceremony today 
Approximately 750 ROTC march of the cadets and mid­
cadets and midshipmen from the Army, Air Force Navy and Marine Corps will participate in the 30-minute ceremony at 
4: 30 p.m. in the south lot of the Joyce ACC. 
"The purpose of (the review) is to get all the cadets and mid­shipmen in the ser­shipmen past Malloy, which will be led by the Army band from Fort Benjamin Harrison in Indianapolis. 

"Part of the ceremony is to award the two outstanding stu­dents from each of the bat­talions," said Hemphill, "Monk does this; he presents 

Happy 
Love,

Birthday, 
Pat, Marsh

ANTHONY 
Mich 


EUGENI 


Thursday: THE WALLETS Live Come on over and check it out Friday: THE GROOVE and ~ CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING 2 campus favorites start at 9:45  
Saturday: DJ and dancing  
Sunday: All you can eat food bar il ur own su 2.  - 

*Convenient Downtown Location 
* 
Security Entrance 

* 
Utilities Included 

* 
Laundry Facilities on Premises 

* 
Range From $285 thru $425 

* 
Efficiencies Still Available 


125 W. Marion St. 233-2098 ask for Mary Jane Chase 

ATTENTION 
1st Time Buyers & College Students 
NISSAN is offering a 1st Time Buyers' Program for New or Used Cars & Trucks. If you are graduating or have a job lined up, you qualify for a new car or truck. Call or Come see 
Kevin O'Reilly at CORAL NISSAN-1 mile north of campus on US31. PH. 277-5800 
Bring in ad and after best deal receive $100 cash in pocket. 
the awards which recognize 
them in front of their peers and 
these are all awards for lea, 
ership and excellence." 

"(Malloy's) role is to sym­bolize the university...to ac­cept the salute from the cadets and midshipmen and to make whatever remarks he feels are appropriate," said Hemphill. 
According to Hemphill, the review is open to the public. "It's the only time that all three ROTC units get together in the same place for any kind of function," he said. 
The cadets and midshipmen have been practicing for the review for the last three weeks, according to Hemphill. "They have really been training all year in drilling ceremonies," he said, "so this is also a chance for them to show how much they've learned." 
"(The review) is a tradi­tional event every spring. It sort of closes out the school year for ROTC," said Hem­phill, "It's something that I think everyone takes pride in doing and doing well...It's a chance to show their support for the University." 
By ROBYN SIMMONS News Staff 
The reviewing officer for the annual Notre Dame military review takes on a new look as University President Father Edward Malloy reviews the of­ficers for the first time at today's ceremony. 

vices...together for the Uni­versity president," said Lt.Col. Douglass Hemphill of Army ROTC, this year's tri-military coordinator. 
"(Malloy) is the person being honored and to whom the review is being presented," said Hemphill. 
The review involves the 
~~------­
----------------------------------------~­
Wednesday, April 20, 1988 
page 4 The Observer 



Education, porn bill passes 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON --The House overwhelmingly passed a multibillion-dollar education bill expanding federal pro­grams for elementary and high school students Tuesday, after attaching a ban on pornograp­hic telephone message ser­vices. 
The Hawkins-Stafford School Improvement Act, which aut­horizes up to $8.3 billion in spending next year, renews all major elementary and second­ary education programs. More than half the money would go to the government's compen­satory education program for disadvantaged children. 
Also authorized are new pro­grams to prevent dropouts and help high school students with weak skills, and money to greatly expand drug abuse edu­cation and magnet school pro­grams. 
The bill, a compromise be­tween versions passed earlier by the House and Senate, needed Senate approval before heading to the White House for President Reagan's signature. 

Booze use affected by media 
By JIM LANG News Staff 
The media and the advertis­ing industry have a tremen­dous impact on the way in which Americans view alcohol and alcoholism, according to "Under the Influence," a Stu­dent Union Board sponsored lecture by Jean Kilbourne Tuesday night. 
Kilbourne, an internationally 
known media critic affiliated 
with Wellesley College, has 
been touring the country lec­
turing on the effects of the 
media on the public's attitudes 
towards women and alcohol. 
Kilbourne stressed from the 
start that her lecture was "not 
a temperance or prohibition 
lecture," but instead it was 
simply an examination of the 
effects of advertising. 
The lecture revolved 
primarily around exposing the 
myths created by alcohol ad­
vertisements and examining 
the paradoxes between these 
myths and the real truths about 
alcohol. 
One such myth involved al­
cohol as a sexual stimulant. 
Kilbourne said that advertisers 
most often link alcohol with 
sex, but in fact there is a 70-to­
80 percent rate of impotency 
and reduced sex drive among 
alcoholics. 
A main point of the lecture was that although the public rarely spends time closely ex­amining alcohol ads, they still affect us greatly. "What we're least conscious of effects us most deeply," she said. 
She praised Notre Dame for 
its recent addition of an Office 
of Drug and Alcohol Education. 
Interested students can pick 
up a four page handout entitled 
"Alcohol Awareness Re­
sources," which gives a listing 
of national awareness resource 
centers, Wednesday at the Stu­
dent Union Board. 

An aide said the Senate planned But in a confusing series of to act Wednesday. moves Tuesday, the House 
Before the 397-1 House vote, killed the dial-a-porn compro­many members called the edu­mise and restored the outright cation measure among the ban despite concerns about its most important they would constitutionality. ever pass because it would put Opponents said it would the United States back on the result in years of litigation road to international competi­during which children could tiveness. continue to call and hear the 
Rep. Philip Crane, R-111., pornographic tapes. But others cast the only dissenting vote. said it would be impossible to 
"Since 1983, we have moved block the service from 12 per­from a nation at risk to a nation cent of American homes served in crisis. I think this proposal by older telephone equipment will turn that trend around," and some said dial-a-porn said Rep. Augustus Hawkins, ought to be off-limits to adults D-Calif., chairman of the as well as children. House Education and Labor The largest single program Committee. in the bill is Chapter 1, which 
The far-reaching measure, pays for tutoring and other ser­named for Hawkins and retir­vices to disadvantaged ing Sen. Robert Stafford, R-Vt., children at risk of academic was shadowed for weeks by failure. School districts could controversy over the dial-a­receive basic grants totaling up porn ban added in the Senate to $4.7 billion in fiscal year 1989, by Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C. a $400 million increase over 
House and Senate current spending. negotiators substituted a provi­sion under which the lewd mes­The school improvement act sage services would be tech­also includes the following nologically blocked from major programs, with author­telephones unless an adult ized 1989 funding levels that called the telephone company represent the maximum and requested a subscription. Congress could appropriate: 


Smart 

Help yourparentsget throughcollege. 
.Just thinking about college tuition is enough to make most parent:. break into a sweat. 
But can vou blame therri? When vou consider the cost of tuition, books, · dorms-not to mention pizza parties­you're talking big bucks. 
Which is why you should do some talking. Like telling your parents about the Education Loan Programs at Manufacturers Hanover Trust. 
At MHT, not only do we participate in all three Federally guaranteed loan programs, but we also work with state and national agencies and can make guaranteed loans in all GO states. 
In practically no time at aiL 
In a matter of minutes, MHT Student Loan Processors can program your information into our computerized loan­processing system. 
Within 24 hours, the Bank will get a decision from the Guarantee Agency. It's that simple. Better still, with MHT your parents will get all the money they need from one source. 
Example: If your folks need more money than government sources will give them, we can otl'er them tailor-made payment plans through The Education Loan Program, Educational Lines of Credit or Monthly Budget Program and Pre-Payment Programs that make it easy for your parents to fund themselves. (The Education Loan Program, Monthly Budget and Pre-Payment Programs are offered through the Tuition Plan, a company of Manufacturers Hanover.) 
Once you get a loan from us, you can be sure it'll stay with us. Because we've never sold education loans to other banks (unless the borrower asked us to). 
So if you need money for school, call 1-800-MHT-GRAD and get yourself an MHT Education Loan Application. 
Then when your folks ask you about tuition, at least you'll have an answer. "No sweat." 
The Consumer Banking Group 
Memher FDIC. G:t Equal Opportunity Lender. CO 198R Manufact.urers Hanover Trust. All ri~:hts reserved. 
AP Photo
Indian protest 
Members of a student union in New Delhi, India protest Pakistan's sup­plying of arms to Sikh extremists in the strife-torn northern state of Punjab. 
-~ 

Wednesday, April 20, 1988 
The Observer page 5 



Robert Kennedy's files made public 
Associated Press He also said he could not ex­
plain why evidence was 

SACRAMENTO, Calif. destroyed, noting police were More than 2,400 photographs careful at the outset because from the assassination of they didn't want "another Dal­Robert Kennedy were unac­las," where Kennedy's bro­countably destroyed nearly 20 ther, President John Kennedy, years ago, officials said Tues­was killed. day as they opened to the public for the first time the long­Burns said he had not had secret police files. time to examine all the 
There was no explanation in evidence, which he predicted the 50,000 pages of documents will occupy researchers for why the pictures were burned years. or why such items as ceiling The gaps in the material tiles and door jambs from the drew immediate criticism. scene of Kennedy's death were "Someone should ask the destroyed in the months follow­police why they destroyed 2,400 ing the assassination. photographs in the most impor­
California Secretary of State tant case they've ever ex­March Fong Eu released the amined.... We didn't know documents, including inter­about that until today," said views with 4,000 witnesses and Gregory Stone, a political 2,500 photographs from the Los scientist at the University of Angeles Police Department Wisconsin and a longtime stu­files. dent of the case. 
Among the persistent ques­

The state's chief archivist tions raised by conspiracysaid the documents were un­theorists and scholars are: 
likely to answer the numerous Was Sirhan Bishara Sirhan the questions surrounding the 1968 only gunman? Was Kennedyassassination because of the shot from in front or behind? destroyed material. Were there eight shots or more 
"I've never seen a file quite in the pantry of the Ambassa­this large," said archivist John dor Hotel? and How close was Burns. "This is a very unusual the gunman whose bullet en­murder file (but) I'm not ab­tered Kennedy's brain? solutely satisfied that any ques­The documents released in­tions are answered." clude an admission by police
He said the biggest surprise that they destroyed key was the amount of evidence evidence, including ceiling
destroyed, including the tiles, a door jamb and photographs, which were thousands of photographs
burned three months after the taken in the Ambassador Hotel 
assassintation. Their subjects kitchen where Kennedy was are unknown. shot on June 5, 1968. 
Mom, Dad, Steve, Paul, Bee, and Tim 





DEPAUL 
UNIVERSITY 
PASS THE 
C.P.A. EXAM 
• 
DePaul University offers the most comprehensive, test-oriented review available. 

• 
We feature all live instruction (no tapes) by an all C.P.A. faculty. 

• 
Our Review Course has been turning C.P.A. candidates into Certified Public Accountants for over 50 years. 


COME SUCCEED WITH US 
The C.P.A. Review for the November, 1988 
examination begins June 13, 1988 and will be 
held at our Loop Campus, 25 E. Jackson 
Blvd., Room 341, Chicago, IL. For more 
information contact: Carolyn Gianforte, 
DePaul University, 312/341-6780. 

Security Beat 
SUNDAY, APRIL 17 MONDAY, APRIL18 II: 15 p.m. A Notre Dame student 
4:10 p.m. A Portland, IN resident 5:37 a.m. A Dillon Hall resident found a necklace on the sidewalk iol reported that his license plate was reported that his radar detector was front of Breen-Phillips Hall at stolen from his vehicle while it was stolen from his vehicle while it was approximately 5 p.m. and turned it in parked behind the Joyce A C C parked in the D I lot at about I :56 a.m. to Security. sometime before 2 p.m. His loss is estimated at $250. 
10 p.m. A South Bend resident re­12:40 p.m. An Alumni Hall ported that his car was hit while it was resident reported that he lost his wallet TUESDAY,APRIL 19 parked in the B2 lot sometime between and contents in the area of Green Field, 2:25 p.m. Two residents of Walsh 
7:30 and 9:30p.m. Damage estimates Lewis, and Alumni Halls between Hall reported that cash was stolen from are unknown. midnight and 12:30 a.m. His loss is their room between 12:30 p.m. and I 
9:30p.m. A resident of Grace Hall estimated at $90. p.m. Their loss is $70. reported that his radar detector was 12:55 p.m. A Lyons Hall resident 3:45 p.m. A Fisher Hall resident stolen from his vehicle while it was reported that her bookbag and contents reported that a bank bag was stolen parked in the B16 lot. The larceny were stolen from the South Dining from his room sometime between 3 occured between I: 15a.m. and Hall lobby between 8 and 9:30 a.m. p.m. on 4/16 and 2:30 a.m. on 4/17. 9:20p.m. His loss is estimated at $65. Her loss is estimated at $51. His loss is estimated at $300. 
OSHA falsified inspection report 
Associated Press tion totals last year by more misleading data that give the 
than 2,000. appearance of zeal as a cover 
WASHINGTON --Federal The committee, chaired by for neglect." . safety inspectors told a Senate Sen. Edward Kennedy, D­Michelle Vallon, an mdus­committee Tuesday they were Mass., has been preparing the trial hygienist in OSHA's Ir­instructed in September to hearings for more than a year. ving, Texas, office, told the "generate numbers" through None of the seven Republicans committee Tuesday that she sham inspections emphasizing on the panel have attended the produced 25 OSHA inspection quantity over improving the first two days. reports from a three-day visit quality of the nation's Before the first witness was to a construction site last Sep­workplaces. called Monday, Kennedy tember. 
"Because the office was vowed to "show that the deci­short on numbers for the year, sion to let workers die ... has Vallon said she believes she they wanted compliance offi­been supervised and carried was told by supervisors to in­cers to generate double the out by the highest levels of this spect the site because of a large number of OSHA 1 (inspection) administration." number of subcontractors on reports," Dr. John Barry, an in­Witnesses before the panel the job and her office was dustrial hygienist in the Monday estimated that 50,000 nearing the end of the fiscal 
agency's Philadelphia regional to 70,000 Americans die an­year and had not met its quota office, testified Tuesday. nually from occupational­of inspections. Barry and other field inspec­related diseases that could be tors stationed in Texas des­prevented. "They didn't exactly say it,
cribed in the second day of 
Kennedy repeated his but I drew that conclusion,"hearings by the Senate Labor charges Tuesday, saying that she said in response to a ques­Committee how the Occupa­career OSHA employees were tion from Kennedy. "We were tional Safety and Health Ad­instructed by Reagan adminis­under constant pressure to get
ministration boosted its inspec-tration officials "to generate numbers." 
To Watery Grave As Revolu­the claim: "No report has tionary Guards Sink U.S. reached us from our forces in
Iran 
Ship," but it contained no the Gulf of any hostile acts 
continued from page 1 details. (against them) today." 
News Agency headlined the At the Defense Department 
dispatch "Yankees Go Down in Washington, Howard said of After the confrontation Mon­
day, the Pentagon said there were no confirmed U.S. casualties but a search was being conducted for an missing

Happy 20th B-Day 
AH-1 helicopter with two crew­men aboard. Iran claimed to have shot it down.

SARAH 
At the United Nations in New York, Iran lodged a formal

From your one 
complaint Tuesday about at­tacks by the "war-monger" United States. Washington

and only, you've 
responded that its actions had been "necessary and propor­

come a long way. 
tionate." 
IRNA also said an American

ME 
attack Monday on the patrol boat Joshan killed 15 crew members and injured 29. 

SUB Special Events Commission 
is looking for students to chair individual events for the 1988-89 school year. 
Applications are available in the SUB Office 2nd floor Lafortune. Due 5pm, Mon. Apr. 25. 
~----~---~~-­
Wednesday, April 20, 1988

page 6 The Observer 
•



2 Americans hurt 1n blast 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE, Costa Rica --A fragmentation grenade blew up outside the American-Costa Rican Cultural Center Tues­day, wounding two Americans and four other people, Costa Rican authorities said. 
Red Cross officials identified the Americans as Alice Feister, a professor at the Cul­tural Center from the Washing­ton, D.C. area, and Shelly Bar­tain, a student from California. 
Feister was seriously wounded, but "she's expected to pull through," said U.S. em­bassy spokesman Mark Kris­chick. 
Krischick said earlier Tues­day that the explosion was 


Dukakis 
continued from page 1 
nsylavnia votes next Tuesday and Ohio and Indiana the Tues­day after. 
New York offered Jackson an unusually high percentage of black voters that won't be available to him in these up­coming states. 
New York was the biggest single-state primary night so far this year, offering 255 delegates. Victory brought Dukakis' national total to half the 2,082 needed to clinch nomination and his aides ex­pressed confidence that they could rally the hundreds of un­committed party officials who will attend the convention to his side. 

Election 
continued from page 1 
Swain and secretary Lisa Rejent collected 73 percent of the votes. The opposing ticket held 23 percent and four per­cent . abstained. LeMans Hall produced a 27.5 percent voter turn-out. 
Regina Hall had the lowest voter turn-out at 18 percent. Running unopposed, president Ann Clark, vice president Maura Clark, treasurer Wendy 

Kroc 
continued from page 1 
Field. 
"(Plans) are currently in the design stage," said Gilligan. He said that the center would probably be comprised of a three-building complex. 
The first building would house offices for faculty, sem­inar rooms and public meeting spaces, said Gilligan. The second would contain an auditorium, seminar rooms and dining facilities, to be used by the University community and the general public for events related to the two in­stitutes. The third building will be comprised of 20 apartments for visiting faculty members, said Gilligan. 
Conklin noted that currently, visiting faculty are generally housed in University-owned homes in South Bend. 
Gilligan said that "(The do­nation) has been in the works for a while." 

Hostage 
continued from page 1 
was a photograph of Joseph James Cicippio, whom it claims to hold. 
The group said it would punish "American aggressions in the gulf." 
The statment also cautioned 
Algeria against any violation 
or deception in its dealings with 
the Moslem hijackers of a 
Kuwaiti plane seized on April 
5. The plane is in Algiers. 
The Revolutionary Jusuce Organization also holds Ed­ward Austin Tracy of Bur­lington, Vt., a writer who was abducted in West Beirut Oct. 
21, 1986. 
believed caused by a mal­functioning power line trans­former. 
A preliminary report prepared by the Intelligence and Security Directorate said the explosion was caused by a fragmentation grenade. Three cars were damaged, the report said. 
Hernan Garron, the public security minister, told The As­sociated Press officials had no suspects in the incident. He called the explosion "a terror­ist act." 
Krischick said Feister suf­fered a severe artery wound and was operated on immedi­ately at Calderon Guardia Hospital. Feister was reported in fair condition. 
Dillon and secretary Jeannie Sabin were supported by 77.5 percent of the voters. 
Michelle Agostino, elections commissioner, said McCand­less Hall did not hold its elec­tion because one of the two tick­ets had been accused of illegal campaign methods. 
The ticket received their first violation early in the election process and a second on Mon­day. Augustino also said the election committee met with the ticket, reviewed the viola­tion charge, and accepted the ticket's appeal. 
Bartain suffered head and knee lacerations but was said to be in good condition. She was expected to return to the United States on Wednesday, a doctor at the hospital said. 
Krischick said Tuesday eve­ning that U.S. officials had been unable that the explosion was caused by a grenade. However, he noted Costa Rican 
officials  ''were  collecting  
evidence all day."  
The  spokesman,  contacted  

by telephone, said the explo­sion occurred shortly after 8 
a.m. (6 a.m.) about 50 yards south of the cultural center building in the eastern Los Yoses district. The structure was not damaged, he said. 
The McCandless Hall elec­tion will be held tomorrow in the dining hall during meal hours. 
"We were pleased with the number of tickets involved," Agostino said. "Voter turn-out was a little down, but the new election proceedures went very smoothly." 
Georgeanna Rosenbush, as­sistant director of Student Ac­tivites, stated that Saint Mary's "is still above the na­tional average" in the area of voter turn-out. 
Kroc also donated $6 million stitute was endowed in 1979 by in 1985 to endow the Peace In­a $10 million gift from the John stitute, said Gilligan. Accor­L. and Helen Kellogg Founda­ding to Conklin, the Kellogg In-tion. 
:Happy Z1 13irtfufay 




13eth! 

NOOMC 
Ballroom Dance 
All Club Members Welcome Friday, April 22, 1988 Knights of Columbus Hall 7:30-10:30 p.m. *Everyone come "Last Chance to Dance" 
AP Pholo Massachusetts Governor Michael Dukakis swept the New York primaries yesterday in his bid for the Democratic nomination for president. Story page 1. 
Summer 



STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW 
683·1959 

• 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

• 
APPROX 2Vz MILES NORTH US 31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALLDAY SUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 
P.O. BOX 100 NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
"BEST LITTLE IN MICHIANA" 

RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS 
BEUEVE IT OR NOT, THIS GUY IS IN CLASS. 
If you're looking for excitement and adven­ture, you'll find it when you enroll in Army ROTC. It's not your ordinary college elective. 



ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN 
c;:,..,,nl<~•r<>hi•n~ This Summer Warrick 239-6264 




Viewpoint
Wednesday, April 20, 1988 
page 7 

Palestine: the facts and the myths 
For the last 40 years, the western world has been believing a myth. Be­cause of the current uprisings in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, this same myth has come up time and time again. The myth deals with the Palestinian people and the belief that the Israelis are the cause of their anguish. True, the Arab world would like us to believe that the Palestinians were forced from their land and into their present refugee camps at the hands of the Israelis, but this assumption is logically as well as factually incorrect. 
Billy Lerman 
guest column 

Let's start at the beginning. The Arab inhabitants of Israel not only left of their own free will, but they were also urged to do so by the Arab govern­ments. If you don't believe my word, than how about the Arabs'? According to a research report by the Arab-sponsored Institute for Palestine Studies in Beirut, "The majority of the Arab refugees in 1948 were not ex­pelled, and 68 percent left without seeing an Israeli soldier." Also in­cluded in that same report is an an­nouncement by the Arab National Com­mittee of Haifa which states, "The removal of the Arab inhabitants was voluntary and was carried out at our request." 
Considering this last bit of informa­tion, let us now take into account the opposite end of the refugee spectrum. Since 1948 the number of Jews in the Arab world has declined from more than 850,000 to fewer than 29,000. The reason that the number of Jews decreased is that they were in many cases formally expelled and in other cases murdered in Nazi-style attacks. Since 1948 Israel has settled not only the Jewish refugees from the Arab world, but also the survivors of the Holocaust and other European Jews as well. This brings to mind-an amazing discrepancy. How can a tiny country such as Israel settle nearly 1,200,000 refugees while the oil-rich Arab world comprised of over 20 countries cannot settle 700,000 of their own brethren? 
In reference to this discrepancy, Khaled Al-Azm, who served as the Prime Minister of Syria after the 1948 war, stated in his memoirs in 1972, "Since 1948 we demanded the return of the refugees (the Palestinians) ... while it is we who made them leave (the Arab world) ... We have rendered them dispossessed ... We have accus­tomed them to begging. . . We have participated in lowering their moral and social level. . . Then we exploited them in executing crimes of murder, arson, and throwing bombs upon men, women, and children --all this in the service of political purposes." It is that same set of political purposes that causes the Palestinian problem to exist today.
In c>nnc>ln~inn, let •1s address the fraudulent claim that the land belongs to the Palestinians. In the first place, innumerable historic records dated before the advent of the Muslim reli­gion detail the Jewish presence in the area. In the second place, the Arabs who chose to remain in Israel after the 1948 war celebrate full autonomy. Thus by willfully leaving Israel during the war they have forfeited any claims to the land. 
The Palestinians in the occupied ter­ritories are there because of their po­litical value in tallying world opinion against Israel. It's not a matter of which country has control of the ter­ritories. In fact, the standard of living in the territories has vastly improved under Israeli rule. The facts clearly point out that the solution rests in the irresponsible hands of the Arab world. So next time you read about the Pales­tinian refugees, recall the facts, not the myth. 
Billy Lerman is a freshman currently enrolled in the Freshman Year of Studies. 

P.O. Box Q 
rection is not referred to to all). But to purpose of a university is free and open I recently had the pleasure of compet­
Movie unjustly anyone who has seen, and understood, intellectual exchange, and if such ex­ing in the "1988 Notre Dame Invita­
the movie, it is equally obvious that change is not appropriate at Notre tional Case Competition." We would
condemned these parallels are used not to mock Dame and Saint Mary's, as Mr. Murray like to extend our thanks and con­
Jesus (or the character of Jesus would would have us believe, then we are not gratulations to the faculty and students 
have been utilized), but to mock certain really centers of higher learning in the at the College of Business who worked Dear Editor: aspects of religion which need to be full sense of the term. so hard to organize the competition. 
Upon reading William A. Murray's mocked: namely fanaticism, sec­Likewise, if Mr. Murray and others Besides running the competition in a letter in Friday's Observer regarding tarianism, and humanity's tendency to who share his sentiments don't approve totally professional manner, the Notre the showing of "The Life of Brian" on place emphasis on the wrong things. of what Monty Python stands for, no Dame people extended such kind campus, one's first reaction, the ques­Brian is a victim of his times. What he one is forcing them to attend the movies hospitality that we will always have tion that comes immediately to mind, tries to say and do are right, but he is or Graham Chapman's lecture on April fond memories of our visit. On behalf is "Has he seen the movie?" Consider­surrounded by lunatics. He lives in an 24. of the team members, Rob Olsen, ing what he says about it, he either has insane period of history, not unlike our As for us, we intend to enjoy the lec­Stefan Winsiowski and myself, thank not viewed it or he didn't pay very close own, and is treated accordingly. ture as we have enjoyed the movies: you. attention when he did view it. "The Life of Brian" is a bawdy as devout Catholics with clear con­Paul Mirabelle 
First of all, the movie makes ab­movie, and the Pythons are by no sciences, firm belief in the Church and University of Western Ontario solutely clear that the character of means devout Christians. But Chris­its values, and the ability to laugh at London, Ontario Brian is not intended to be the historical tians who are deeply offended by this ourselves. April14, 1988 
Jesus. Jesus is presented in two scenes movie either have missed the true Paul Carrier (the Nativity and the Sermon on the point, or its criticisms apply to them. Jeffery Long Mount) as a completely separate and If the latter case is true, then it is these Doug Pritchett independent character, acting com­"Christians," and not the Pythons, who William Thomas pletely in accordance with what the should be ashamed. We have become Pangborn Hall Bible and sacred tradition say about like the Pharisees if we are so self­April18, 1988 Him. Therefore, when Mr. Murray righteous we can't laugh at our own criticizes "The Life of Brian" for faults. 
Business School

presenting "Christ's life, crucifixion As far as the movie's being con­and resurrection as butts of jokes," he demned by the Catholic Church, such thankedis making a statement which is incon­censorship belongs buried in the sistent with reality. Church's past, along with crusades and Dear Editor: 
Of course, there are obvious parallels inquisitions, and not in the post-Vatican As part of the Business School Case between the life and death of Brian and II era. It certainly has no place at a Competition team from the University 
the life and death of Christ (the resur-university, Catholic or otherwise. The of Western Ontario in London, Ontario, 
Doonesbury 
P.HICH R1XJM AUrfOST ~VEI<Y­HOPJA80(JT e;H()Ij[J) tU7 QV&. 8.1?. AN[) ZONI<ER? ~,REV? f:KXJPSI& fli3IAJ 0/0 H/3 
IN LA~ NleHT.., MAKE IF
~/ 
Over 300 letters to the editor and 200 columns appeared last year In VIew­point. Join the growing number of people wf!IG feel their opinions do make a difference. Write to 
P.O. Box Q, VIew­
point  Department,  
Notre  Dame,  IN.  
46556  




Quote of the Day 
"Friendship without self-in­terest is one of the rare and beautiful things of life." 
James Francis Byrnes 



Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Edltoral Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Oxrider Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager .... : ............ Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt News Editor ...................................Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette ShiHs Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager ........................... Mark Ridgeway Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager... . .......... Marga Bruns Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele Photo Editor ...................................... Michael Moran 
Founded November 3,1966 






Accent 
page 8 Wednesday, April 20, 1988 

THERESA LOOMIS accent •'/Titer 
T
wo hours per week for over several years is quite a commitment. Nevertheless, the 60 plus members of Big Brot­hers! Big Sisters of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's often extend themselves far beyond this minimum time requirement in fostering relationships with "Iittles." 
This year, one student in par­ticular has exemplified this commitment. On Monday after­noon Big BrotherSIBig Sisters of St. Joseph County presented senior Mark Laughlin with the Patrick J. Niland Memorial Ser­vice Award. 
Niland, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1982, demon­strated great devotion to the program. Upon his sudden death in 1985, as the result of a car accident, his family and friends established the award to recognize other students for exceptional service as Big Brot­hers and Big Sisters. 
Criteria for the award include 
length of service, consistency, 
continuity (maintaining contact 
over summer months and vaca­
tions), creativity in meeting a 
child's particular difficulties, 
the quality or closeness of the 
relationship, and the time, 
caring and self-sacrifice in­
volved. 
Laughlin and his little brother 
Glen were matched halfway 
through Laughlin's sophomore 
year when Glen was 10 years 
WVFI 640 am 
TOP TEtt 
compiled from playlists, April 12-18 Midnight Oil "Sometimes" Robyn Hitchcock and the Egyptians "Aesh Number One (Beatie Dennis)" 
· Morrissey 

"Suedehead" Scruffy the Cat "You Dirty Rat" Material Issue "She's Going Through My Head" The Church "Blood Money" The Woodentops "Stop This Car" The Mighty Lemon Drops ''Fafl Down" An "Sex in the Way" Doc and the Pods "Chimps" 
old. When first paired, given 
their respective backgrounds, Laughlin commented, "We were pretty different." 
To ease into the relationship, the two initially went swimming and played basketball or other sports in which a lot of talking was not necessary. Now, however, the two even study together. Laughlin has also taken Glen on a Chicago trip and to his home in Omaha, 

Neb., for two Easter breaks. 
The studying has paid off and Glen has made significant academic improvement. After failing sixth grade, he has received 90 percent or above in all areas on his past report card. Said Laughlin, "Some of it's due to me, but a lot of it's due to him. He's grown up. I was the impetus--the first one to get him concerned about grades--but the rest was him." 
Patricia Wagner, Executive Director for Big BrotherSIBig Sisters of St. Joseph County, said of Mark. "He's really a spe­cial person. His relationship is one that he's put a lot of time and effort into. " 
Commenting on Glen, she 
said, "I am amazed at his con­fidence and poise. The caseworker said he has developed immensely. He used to be more of a shy young man and wasn't involved in as many things." 
Wagner stated that, although the two did the "typical match activities" for the first year, Mark's special qualities were really drawn upon for the second year. 
"While Mark was in London for a semester, they kept in contact by writing. When he came back. Glen's needs were different. Mark decided to see him twice a week. rather than once. Now Glen is on the Honor Roll and his mother says his improvement has been 99 percent because of Mark's en­couragement." 
At Monday's presentation, Wagner relayed a few of Glen's comments. Said Laughlin, "I remember he said that we're 'sort of best friends.' " 
Laughlin knows that after graduation the two will "definitely keep in touch." However, due to post­graduation plans, he does not foresee that he will have the time to devote to involvement in a Big Brothers program else­where. 
Commented Laughlin, "':'here are a lot of great Big Brothers ana Sisters. Everyone is really deserving--anyone who can devote that kind of time deserves an award." 
Reflecting on why he was chosen, Laughlin pointed to the concentration on academics but also remarked, "I don't really know for sure, but I know we've had a lot of fun together." Said Wagner, "Mark represents the high­quality, high-caliber students we have volunteering from Notre Dame and St. Mary's." It seems the Niland Memorial Ser­vice Award could not have a more appropriate recipient. 
"Your mother wears army boots!" 
}don't want anyone to get the wrong idea. 
We all get a lot from our mothers. I inherited my mom's thin, white, hairless forearms. 
And it's not that I don't appreciate all that mothers do, either. far from it. Motherhood is probably the toughest job in the world, sort of a combination of shoveling dung and being President. I realize that it is a seriously tough gig. 
Kevin Walsh 
guest column 


Fortunately, the accident of my birth forever excludes me from that occupation. I will never bear children and no matter what else ever happens to me, I can be thankful for that. 
As if mothers didn't already have enough things to worry about, there's the little matter of Mother Jokes. I'm not talking about vaudeville jokes about mothers-in-law and I'm not talking about some watered-down "Cosby Show" sitcom schtick. 
I'm talking aboutjokes about your mother. 
These are the peculiar genre of comedy jokes usually practiced by playground last-ditch losers in grade school in an all-out effort to save face of some kind. There is not another single put-down (except maybe another Mother Joke) that can stop an argument as well as "Yeah, so's your mother.'' Keep this in mind. 
I think a brief history of the Mother Joke is in order here. The very first Mother Joke was told at Freud's famous lectures, when he was expounding on his newly discovered "Oedipal Complex." Freud was going on at length about how every man secretly long for his mother, when from the back of the auditorium someone was heard to shout, "Yeah, that's what your mother says!!" Freud was briefly flustered, but retorted quickly and brilliantly with the now-famous burst of witty rhetoric, "I know you are, but what am I?" 
World War II began, not when the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor, but rather when the Japanese Emperor shouted, "Please remind your mother that she left her shoes in the palace last night!" at Franklin Delano Roosevelt. 
Which brings us, of course, to the present day. My senior year in high school, I had the distinct privilege of attending an all-male school in New Jersey, that Wordsworthian paradise whos actual state slogan is "Your Mother!" It was there that I first encountered the full, polished, unfettered fury of the Mother Joke. These guys had refined it to an art. Their scatological poetry pulled in everything. from the classic, haiku simplicity of "Yo Mama" to the more Miltonian epics which included casts as diverse as "all the gophers in hell" and "The United States Marine Corps." Some of the inventive, cross-mutations of swear words that these guys came up with would have outright killed or at least blinded the younger members of the Brady Bunch, especially mentioned in connection with their mothers. 
The funniest thing that happened all year was on the day when all the mothers came to visit. I stood by and watched as everybody quietly introduced their mothers to everybody else. I watched while kids who had professed intimate relations with each other's mothers were introduced and forced to make small talk. I remember our football team's quarterback's mother had unknowingly endured a few especially creative adventures; in real life, she was a delicate, upright woman without even a trace of hair on her back. I guess the other guys really had shaved it. 
Mother Jokes are in danger of extinction, though. Norman Bates kind of screwed up the whole thing for everybody. That "Psycho" thing was probably the Mother Joke taken to its perverted extension. 
So, don't forget that Mother's Day is on May 8 this year. And on that special day, don't forget to call Mom... if you can pull her off 
the rugby field long enou h. 
Aloha! 
KALLEEN MUNSCH accent writer 
wanna get "leid"? 
How about a handful of bel­lydancers in grass skirts? Or a pair of tall, dark and handsome islanders? On the beaches of 


Hawaii or in the party room at ture. Holy Cross Hall, all this and Come as you are, and in­more can be yours. This Satur­dulge in the kalua pig. lau day from 5:30 to 9:30 p.m., laus, chicken long rice, the Hawaiian Club is sponsor­lomilomi salmon and other na­ing their annual luau. tive dishes. The pitter-patter of 
With authentic food and dan­drums and soft melodies of cing. Jeff Yee, Gianna Ho, guitars will soothe your soul, Andrew Kim and Kevin Young making these last stressful (officers of the club) invite weeks of school seem islands everyone to sprinkle them-away. 

------------------·---~----~---­
The Observer 
Sports Wednesday 
Wednesday, April 20, 1988 
page 9 

Book_store Basketball 
Tuesday 
Stepen 1 Lou's 2 OB's over Pump Up the Volume by 6 Pop a Shot at Senior Bar over Johnny Wad's Last Shot by 5 
Stepan 2 Mlnahoomes over Min1sters of Pain by 12 Who's Next.. over Whubus and His 4 Friends by 8 
Stepan 5 I'll Play, No I Won't over Yo... What Up? by 7 K1nk01ds over The Explosive Packages and Boomer by 8 
Stepan 6 Put II 1n the hole again. Ch1el over Butch and the Boxcars by 3 5 Slamma Jammas over Uncle Fester and the Ch1ets by 5 
Montreal leads series 1-0 
Irish Lacrosse 
Through Tuesday 

Lyono 11 
Tequilla White Lightening over Swaggart, 
Reagan, and 3 Other Guys by 6 
Jimmy Swaggart, Jim Bakker& ... overTop Guns 
by 3 Lyono 12 
Hahn's Funeral Home over SOS by 5 
A Bad Dude, A Cool Buzz over Debi Gibson 
You're Ours by 9 Bookstore 9 
Chip's Bar over Somfaw's Return by 8 Corporate Raiders over Return ol the Fugitive Guys by 11 Bookstore 10 
Adwork's All Stars over Ferrence and 4 Other Guys by 7 Tofu's Last Gig over Orange Blossom Special 
by 10 Ministers of Pain over Debl Thomas, Dan Jan­sen... by 3 
National League 
American League 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
East  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Cleveland  11  3  .786  
New York  10  3  .769  .5  
Boston  9  5  .643  2  
Detroit  7  5  .583  3  
Toronto  6  7  .462  4.5  
Milwaukee  5  7  .417  5  
Baltimore  0  13  .0  10.5  
West  
Chicago  7  5  .583  
Oakland  7  6  .538  .5  
California  6  6  .500  1  
Kansas City  6  7  .462  1.5  
Texas  6  7  .462  1.5  
Seattle  5  8  .385  2.5  
Minnesota  7  .364  2.5  

Tueoday'o Reautto Milwaukee 9, Baltimore 5 Texas 3, Cleveland 0 NBoston 7, Detroit 3 Toronto 12. Kansas City 3 New York at Minnesota(late) Chicago at Seattle(late) California at Oakland(late) 
Wednooday'o Games California at Oakland Chicago at Seattle Baltimore at Milwaukee Texas at Cleveland Boston at Detroit Kansas City at Toronto New York at Minnesota 
Second Round 

Monday's Results Tuesday's results Washington 3, New Jersey 1 Detroit 5, St. Louis 4 
Washington leads series 1-0 Detroit leads series 1-0 
Montreal 5, Boston 2 Edmonton at Calgary, late 
6 
6 

[·II : 6 : II·[ 
POWER POLITICS 
THE US • USSR CONFLICT 
MAJOR WILLIAM LADEMAN Naval War College Providence, Rhode Island 
April 20, 1988 Wed. 7:30pm Montgomery (Little) Theatre La Fortune 
·=-·...............
·~ 
series tied 0-0 
PTS 48 
29 
22 21 
19 14 
11 
5 5 5 5 5 2 2 2 2 
1 
197 125 

Sports Calendar 
Home games in CAPS 
Today 

No sports scheduled 
Thursday 
Baseball vs. IUPUI at Coveleski Lacrosse at Wittenberg 
Friday 

Golf at Spartan Invitational 
Saturday 
Football BLUE-GOLD game Baseball at Michigan State Men's tennis at Kalamazoo Track at Indiana lntercollegiates Lacrosse at Ohio Weslyan Golf at Spartan Invitational 
Sunday 

BOOKSTORE FINALS Baseball vs. ILLINOIS-CHICAGO (2) Golf at Spartan Invitational Men's tennis vs. WISCONSIN 
Monday 
No sports scheduled 
Tuesday 
Baseball vs. PURDUE 
Ultimate Frisbee 
An Tostal 
Ultimate Frisbee Double elimination, finals on Sun­day. Survivors in winner's bracket Limp Stiffies Rise a Final Time Rally Kings 
Survivors in loser's bracket Electric Love Muffins Budda's Rowdy Smegmas Fizbin Weak Red Hatchet Thread Scream and Moan 
Mud Volleyball 
Final Eight 
TK Has Word vs. Jeanne-Jeanne & the Earthworms 
No Excuses vs. Murp's Revenge 
Irish Setters vs. Plnga Heads 
Land Crabs vs. Opprlmemus Vos 
Final Four 
TK has Wood vs. No Excuses 
Land Crabs vs. Irish Setters 
Sports Lists 

TEN MOST FREQUENTLY USED NICKNAMES IN BASEBALL* 
1. 
Lefty 

2. 
Red 

3. 
Doc 

4. 
Bud/Buddy 

5. 
Dutch 

6. 
Big 

7. 
Mickey 



; 
8. 
Whitey 

9. 
Chick 


10. Kid 

* 1871-1987 SOURCE: BASEBALLRESEARCHJOURNAL 
Geoffrey Sauer and Marga Bruns/THE OBSERVER 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
E81t  
w  L  
Pittsburgh  9  3  
New York  8  5  
Montreal  6  6  
Chicago  8  6  
Ph1iadelph1a  5  8  
Sl. LOUIS  3  9  
Weot  
Houston  8  3  
Loa Angeles  9  4  
$an Francisco  8  6  
C1nc1nnat1  8  6  
San Diego  4  9  
Atlanta  1  10  

Tuaodey'o Reoutto Montreal 9, Chicago 1 Pittsburgh 3, St. LOUIS 0 Cincmnatl 8, San Franc1sco 0 Philadelphia 10, New York 2 Atlanta at Houston (late) Sen Diego at Las Angeles. ppd. ra1n 
Wodnooday'o Gemeo Montreal at Ch1cago St. Lows at Pittsburgh San Franc1sco at Cincinnati Philadelphia at New York Atlanta at Houston San Diego at Los Angeles 
NHL Playoffs Scoreboard 
Pet.  GB  
750  
615  1.5  
. 500  3  
500  3  
.385  4.5  
.250  6  
.727  
692  
.571  1.5  
.571  1.5  
.308  5  
.91  7  


Results lor Apr. 6 through Apr. 12 
Baseball Notre Dame 16, Detroit 11 Notre Dame 9, Detroit 8 Notre Dame 12, Detroit 11 Detroit 16, Notre Dame 11 
Lacrosse Notre Dame 11 , Lake Forest 7 Denison 14, Notre Dame 6 
Tennis 
Men Notre Dame 6, Indiana State 3 Notre Dame 7, Ohio 2 

Women Southern Illinois 6, Notre Dame 3 Notre Dame 6, Northwestern Missouri State 0 
Track at Stanford Invitational Qualifiers for NCAA Championships 5000 meters: Dan Garren 13:53:.02 Qualifiers for IC4A Championships 5000 meters: Garren Mike O'Connor 13:58.84. Ron Markezich 14:00.25 3000 m steeplechase: Rick Mulvey 8:57.32 Hammer: Tom Mick 182'6" Discus: Tim Smith 158'1" Javelin: Ryan Mihalko 209'8" 
Golf 21st at Kepler lntercollegiates 
MCC Baseball 
Eaatarn Division 

Teem  Leaguepct.  OOva  pet.  
rail  
Notre Dame  9-3  .750  23-17  .575  
Dayton  2-2  .500  13-15  .464  
Detroit  1-3  .250  15-14  .517  
Xavier  0-4  .000  11-24  .314  
Weatem Dlvlolon  
Evansville  3-1  .750  26-12  .684  
Saint Louis  1-3  .250  9-17  .346  
Buller  0-0  .000  7-16  .304  

Top two finishers in each division compete in MCC Tournament, which carries an automatic bid to the NCAA Tournament. 
NBA Standings 
Eaotern Conference Atlantic Dtvlalon 

w L  Pet.  GB  
y-Boston  56 23  .709  
Washington  37 42  .468  19  
New York  37 43  .463  19.5  
Philadelphia  35 44  .443  21  
New Jersey  18 62  .225  38.5  
Central Dlvlolon  
y-Detroil x-Atlanta  52 27 49 30  .658 .620  3  
x-Chicago x-Milwaukee  49 30 40 39  .620 .506  3 12  
x-Cieveland  40 40  .500  12.5  
Indiana  36 43  .456  16  
Wutem Conference  
Mldwut Dtvlalon  
w L  Pet.  GB  
x~Denver  52 27  .658  
x-Dallas  51 28  .646  1  
x-Houston  45 34  .570  7  
x-Utah  43 35  .551  8.5  
San Antonio  30 49  .380  22  
Sacramento  22 57  .278  :;;o  
Paclltc Dlvlalon  
y-LA Lakers  59 20  .747  
x-Portland  50 28  .641  8.5  
x-Seattle  42 36  .538  16.5  
Phoenix  27 51  .346  31.5  
Golden State  20 58  .256  38.5  
LA. Clippers  17 61  .218  41.5  

y-<:finched division title x-.:linched playoff berth 

Tueodey'o Reouha Boston 121, Detroit 110 Atlanta 119, New Jersey 109, OT Chicago 121, New York 118 Philadelphia 1 15, Milwaukee 102 Dallas 104, Houston 96 LA Lakers 1 33, San Antonio 126 Seattle at Denver. late Golden State at Phoenix, late 
Wednooday'1 Garnoo Indiana at Atlanta Washington at Milwaukee LA Lakers at Dallas utah at LA Clippers Portland at Golden State Phoenix at Seattle 
PLAYER, POSITION John Olmstead, A Brian McHugh, A John McNicholas, M Tom Lanahan, M Jeff Shay, A Dave Carey, A Mike Quigley, M Dave Kidder, M Doug Spencer, D John Campano, M Art Brady, M John Burtis, M Mark Healy, A Rob Lynn, A Pete Gillen, M Mark Brady, M Eamon McAnaney, D NOTRE DAME OPPONENTS 
KEEPER Matt McQuillan Jeff Glazier NOTRE DAME OPPONENTS 
G-S 11-11 11-11 
11-4 
11-11 8-8 11-3 11-0 7-0 11-11 11-0 10-10 10-7 
5-0 
7-0 
11-1 
10-0 
11-0 
11 
11 
Saves 107 
37 
146 
120 
SOG 
59 
55 
57 59 
42 
23 49 14 3 
12 21 7 
5 5 5 3 2 426 300 
GA 48 
32 
80 
121 

G  Pet.  A  
30  .509  18  
18  .327  11  
12  .211  10  
14  .237  7  
14  .333  5  
7  .304  7  
8  .163  3  
4  .286  1  
0  .000  5  
4  .333  1  
3  .143  2  
1  .143  2  
2  .400  0  
1  .200  1  
0  .000  2  
1  .333  1  
1  .500  0  
121  .284  76  
80  .267  45  
Pet.  
.690  
.536  
.646  
.498  



ENJOY COMPLETE CURRICULUM !N ENGLISH, SAINT LO<JIS UNIVERSITY'S 
SPANISH, Liberal Arts, Business, 

MADRID CAMPUS 
Science, Hispanic Studies 
July Session Includes: 

Graduate Program in Hispanic Studies (SLU is an Mf:OE) Apply NOW for SUMMER & FALL! 
INFORMATION: 
Tel 1-800-325-6666 
221 N. Grand Blvd. 
Sl Louis, MO 631 03 
or 
d De La Vina, 3 
Madrid 28003 

...In the classroom with more than 700 Spanish students. 
··~--·--. --~ ----------~--­
r ­
r Wednesday, April 20, 1988

page 10 The Observer . 
for three years," notes Cer­goal attempts Tuesday and three 37-yard attempts Tues­mage. Tony Rice completed 13­
Punters 
rato. making two of three attempts day. of-30 passes for 124 yards, in­continued from page 16 The problem with the Friday. However, the 5-5 Hackett also has handled the cluding a touchdown pass to 
placekickers is not so much a jl,!nior's range is limited to un­kickoff chores, which leaves tight end Frank Jacobs, while Sexton has the only punts over lack of consistency or leg der 40 yards. the possibility of using two Kent Graham connected on 7­40 yards in a scrimmage, Con­strength among the kickers, placekickers next season. of-13 for 49 yards. Each quar­nor has shown in practice that but a lack of both in any one Freshman Billy Hackett has "Ideally we want to use only terback threw two intercep­he has a strong leg, hitting kicker. the leg strength, but he has not one," says Cerrato. tions. several 50-yard punts. Reggie Ho has been very con­been as consistent as Ho. He Jacobs led receivers with six 
"You have to remember that sistent in the scrimmages, hit­missed a 34-yard attempt The passing game got a catches for 42 yards, and Wat­Sean has been out of football ting all three of his 37-yard field Friday and converted on two of workout in Tuesday's scrim-ters grabbed four for 39. 
n.~Hotn1 Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu­dent eent., ~claaalfled ectw.ttltng from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday ttvoug11 Frkl8y. The ~s.lnt Mwy's office, located on the third floor of .......Collge Center, accepts claaalfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday 
Classifieds through Frkl8y. Deedllne for next•claaalfleda Ia 3 p.m. All claaalfleda must 
be prapakl, either In penson or by mall. The charge Ia 10 cents per five 
c:Mr.:tera per-­
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Professors and grad-students: Pandora's will buy your books. Call 233-2342 to make an appointment 10-5:30 7 days-Week 
Wordproceulng-Typfng 27241827 
CALL 237-1948 FOR YOUR WORDPROCESSING NEEDS. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7008 
WORD¢PLUS Scholastic Typinlt£diting Rush Jobs OK 256-30n 
MADMACS MEETING The MadMacs Users Group will be meeting in Room 214 of the Computing Center and Math Building at 7:00 p.m. on Wednesday, April 20. This will be the last full meeting of the group this semes­ter and will cover a report from the Na­tional Apple Users Group Conference, an update of group activities and plans for this summer and next year, a year-end financial report, elaction of 1988-1989 of­ficers, and a new video from Apple Com­puter. Members, visitors, and anyone else interested in the Macintosh are en­couraged to attend. 
BUS TRIP HOME TO PHILL Y SIGN­UPS THURS 7:30 Base. LaFortune 1st COME 1at SERVE 
MADMACS Meeting TONIGHT MadMacs will be meeting tonight in Room 214 ol the Computing Center and Math Building at 7:00 p.m. We will be elacting 1988-1989 officers, discussing current viruses and what you can do to stop them, demonstrating PageMaker 3.0, and giving away demo disks, new public domain software, and applications like HyperCard... For more information con­tact Mark Johnson at 239-7252, Hardie Tankersley at 283-2026, or Tim Dierks at 283-2101 
Computer Art Fair Friday, April 29 in Riley Hall Room 200. Come see the latest in Interactive Art, Videodisks, and Computer Music at 4 
p.m. and Computer Animation Videos at 5 p.m. Don't miss the most innovative computer and art work Notre Dame has seen in years. 
LAURA! Die Harmonie of our souls, die Du tiel in Deinem lnnersten spuerst beruehrt mich jeden Tag. Schoen. Auch ich land sie in Dir. Sie ist so kostbar. I will hold on to it 
THE SHADES THE SHADES THE SHADES 
AME-I want to be just like FSSII 
\ LOST/FOUND I 
help! lost a brown wallet with initials FJD, contained 10, driver's liscence, and photos. H was lost somewhere between North dining hall and the Engineering li­brary. Please call Francis at 283-1723 or return to 704 Grace Hall n found. REWARDIIIIIII$50. 
LOST: One jeans jecket.l wouldn't care nyou kapt " nnot for my keys being in the pocket. Hwas left in 101 Hurley after the 10:10 class on Wed. 41'13. My name is In the coat so give me a call at x2000. 
FOUND: 3 X 8 IN. LT. BROWN AD­DRESS BOOK wrrH ALPHABETIZED TABS. NO OWNERS NAME. FOUND BEHIND FACULTY LOT ACROSS FROM BRARE. CLAIM AT LOST & FOUND IN UBRARY. 
LOST: A dark blue velcro wallet H hes all my id. and driver's license. I have no existance without this wallet. Please call Matt at x3134 or 3132. 
LOST: Royal blue NO backpack from North Dining Hall at Lunch Monday. Call Betsy at x4169 PLEASEIII 
LOST: WHITE, PULLOVER N.D. JACKET. 206 O'SHAG, LAST WED. 
A.M. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL JEN AT 2526 
LOST: Bleck vinyl shoulder bag at senior formal check-in. Contains a 35mm camera, pocket camera, notebook and planner. If you have any information or accidentally picked it up please call Theresa at 2n·8158. IIIIIREWARDIIIII for any of " returned. 

Lost on Friday (if I knew where; this wouldn't be put in) Ray Ban sunglasses. Gold frames less than 1 K. If found please call Dan at 271-0480 
FOUND: Set of car and office keys on a Notre Dame key ring. Stop by room 10-S in Stepan Chemistry Building between 8 
a.m. and 1 p.m. to collact them. 
Lost: At Senior Formal; A black purse with a Kodak camera inside and a Vivltar camera in a gray easel If found please call George at 287-0753 or Kathleen at 284-42881111 
LOST -Gold "ST. Christopher" medal and chain probably at Rockne. call Brian 283­3833 $40 reward 
LostIll A black Orient watch on Saturday, April 10 in front of Holy Cross Hall. If found PLEASE return to 340 Holy Cross or call II 1238. Would greatly appreciate the return. THANKS! 
LOST: LIZ CLAIBOURNE PURSE AT FRESHMAN FORMAL MY 1.0. AND KEYS ARE INSIDE SO GIVE ME A CALL AT 284-5182. REWARD! REWARD! 
FOR RENT 

2 EFFICIENCY APTS UTILITIES PAID 288-0955 
FURNISHED HOUSE SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD 288-0955-255-3684 
NICE HOME FURNISHED CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 6838889 
STUDIO APARTMENT TURTLE CREEK $339-MONTH CALL 277-4842 
TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE FOR SUMMER RENT CALL 283-1606 ERIC 
summer rental beautiful, large 1 bedroom apt in house wtiver view. 1 mile from campus fur­nished, safe neighborhood, fenced yard. 289-2527 
Lg. apt near Leeper Park. 288-2821. 
6-7 BEDROOM HOMES.NEAR CAMPUS.ALARM SYSTEM.SUMMER OR 8 MO LEASE FOR FALL.272-QOS 
WANTED 

WANTED: PLASMA DONORS. Help uve e life end eern extra ceah at the ume time. New and old donora who have not given wtthln 30 days will be paid $12 ceah after donating II you bring In thla ad. Come to Amerlcen Pleama on Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday or Saturday, 515 Uncolnway Weal, South Bene!. 234-8010. 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND-WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL COLLECT FOR JERRY, MORN­INGS 914 3814224 
WANTED..""WANTED""""WANTEo•••• I nned a female roommate for the sum­mer. Will spl" expenses for a Turtle Creek apartment If interested call Amy 284­5470. 
................................................................ 
FOR SALE 

IBM PC?<T Model 086 1OMb disk, 360K floppy, 640K RAM and Quadram CGA color monitor. $1,600 price includes DOS 2.1, documentation, AST SuperPak utilities and SideKick. DOS 3.2, Notebook II, PFS:Rie, LOGO and other software packages also avail­able. For more-information, call Mike Krager at 239-7248 weekdays from 8 
a.m. to 5 p.m. 
For sale; 1980 Chevette, excellent con­dition, 85,000 miles, $1,200 or best offer. Call Sarah at 283-3943. 
MACINTOSH 128K; IMAGEWRITER 1 & ACCESSORIES Call TOM 2350 
St. Loula Cardinal Baseball Fanall I have SIX tickets for the night game on Aug. 5th agalnet the Expos. I cen't go, but I know you would love tol Only $50. x1seo 
WINDSURFER FOR SALE Fanatic Cat w' Mistral Sail 368cm race board Call Ron 287-n36 IBM PC?<T Clone Call Rick 271-0548 
For Sale. Sax w"h new pads, case and cleaners. Casio Keyboard. W"h drums, chords and 24 sounds. 271-9341 for Jen­nifer. 
1978 4-DOOR VW RABBIT, 92,000 miles GOOD COND. $1100 call288·6154 
LIKE TO WATCH TV? RCA 19" Color TV For Sale!! Excellent Condition. Great low price. Call Steve at 1930. 
UNITED LIMO TICKET FOR SALE-­WORTH $40, ASKING $30.CALL 271­0575. 
79 FORD LTD, RUST PROOF, $1280, ACCASSETTE,CALL Jl 2834155 
14" COLOR TV SAMSUNG $85 CALL Jl 2834155 
FOR SALE: 1983 GREY FORD ES­CORT. GOOD CONDITION. CALL 271­
0868. 

Graduation weekend-plane ticket­Nationai,Wesh.DC to South Bend on thur.eve.5-'12 return on Mon.5-'16. Asking $150. I will alr.o sell one-way for $90. Call Brian 283-3833 
A.T.T. PC 7300 PERSONNAL COM· PUTER ASK MARGUERITE 256-5737 
TICKETS 
I NEED ONE TICKET FOR GRADUA­TION. WILL PAY. CALL 3257 ASK FOR BRIAN 
WE NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD TIX. CALL KAREN 2879, OR ERIC 232-1399 TODAY! 
HELP! I DESPI:RATEL Y need one more Commencement ticket. I'll make you a GREAT DEAL $$$1 Call Gretchen 272­2836 
HELPII I need-2 grad. tix Will pay big $$$ Call Heidi 233-4176 
Two graduation tickets needed. Will pay. Please call Susan at 239-6098. 
HELP I You've gotto understand! My fam­ily is too big and 3 reason I want to say ... 
1. My siblings WANT to SEE me in per­son, NOT to HEARl 2. They WANT to CRY OUT their CHEER, but CAN'T HEAR them! 3. Because I'M DEAFL. PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE, I desperately need 3 GRADUTATION TICKETS! I WILL PAY $$$$ PLEASE CALL JJ x3276 
I NEED AS MANY GRAD TICKETS AS YOU CAN SELL. CALL SAM: 271-0683 OR 288-5818 
My whole family is coming from Puerto Rico and I might need up lo ten gradua­tion tickets. Please call Gilbert at 2n­7261 and we'll reach a price agreement. 
midnight oil tix desperately needed area show 2 ph:2n8475 Joe. 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE' COLD BEER & UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Students: Sell your unwanted class books for $$ at Pandora's Books. 808 Howard off NO Ave. 10-5:30, 7day&Week 233-2342 
ATTENTION 88 GRADUATES 1st Source Bank will finance your car pur­chase For more information call Ellen Santa or Jeff Corey at 236-2200 
Bartles Imports BMW!MAZ.DIVI/W All JETTAS at invoice PH. 272-8504 Ends April 30th 
SENIORS: Moving to So. Cal. for a per­manent job? Call me If you need a room­mate. Jim 1912. 
SUMMER STORAGE 2727599 or B.MILLER PO 665 NO IN 
Dear Elizabeth, 
The peat alx months have been some 
of the beet months that I cen remem­
ber, becauu of you. Honey, 1 care 
about you a lot ·I MISS YOU, but at 
least I cen take comfort In the fact that 
In a few ahort weeks I'll be with you 
once again. Thanks for all of the won­
derful memorlea; let' a make It alx mora 
montha. O.K.? 
Love Always, 
Tom 

P.S. I'll meet you In Boeton alright? 
JUST SAY 
uNOc. 
ugly nan on campus... 
Vote UMOC 
Vote UMOC La Fortune Info Booth MON-FR17-9 
HEYIThe SHADES are playin"at BRIDGET"S on Thursday at 6. BE THERE! (or be less than zero!) 
NEEDED: ROOMMATE West Chicago burbs-Oak Park area, call Jane (SMC 87) 312-482-7289 
STORE YOUR STUFF THIS SUMMER st STORE-MORE MINI-WAREHOUSE! Loweat rate. 24 hour electronic protec­tion. Call 854-3838. 
CRUISE TO THE TUNE OF $8-$10tiR. Can you make $12,001Y;'r. delivering for Domino's Pizza? You bell Now hiring. 1835 South Bend Avenue $3.7Stlr with bonus at hlra. 2n·2151. 
"SENIORS: GOING TO A NEW CITY? CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES CAN HELP YOU FIND OTHER 
N.D. GRADS GOING TO THE SAME CITY. STOP BY AND SIGN UP NOW." 
"SENIORS: GOING TO A NEW CITY? CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES CAN HELP YOU FIND OTHER 
N.D. GRADS GOING TO THE SAME CITY. STOP BY AND SIGN UP NOW." 
LOOKING FOR MR. GOODBAR CLUE NO.3 After a long bitter winter Temperatures of 100 below Spring break comes rolling in Fly South, Domers, fly South 
HEYIII Gueas whet's coming April 27 
unoc? umoc? NOIII U.R.O.C. ----JUDY UGLY RECTRESS ON CAMPUSII 
JUDY is no beaulyiiiShe's UGLVI ·-U.R.O.C. 
JUDY is too UGLY--make her feel good and bring your pennies to LaFortune!! Judy U.R.O.C.­-ugly rectress on campus•••u• 
AN TOSTAL T·SHIRTS ARE HERE X 1851 
Have A Coke And A Smile 
AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII AN TOSTAL IS HEREIII 
WICKED WEDNESDAY ... WICKED WEDNESDAY ... WICKED WEDNES. DAY The Jim E. Brogan Award, Delay Delivery, Boolcatore Baaketbllll, UMOC, Tuck Ina, An Toatal Splrlt Raffle and more. Questions, atop by the An Toatal Office Rm. 307 LFortune. 
F5 Slam Dunk Contest TODAY (9'3" and 1 0'). Bookstore Crts at 3:30pm. 
AIRBAND '88 TONGHTIII Come and welch cempua celebs Judge the hot­teat mualcel acta on cempuai!IB:OOpm at Theodore's 
CHUCK CHUCK CHUCK CHUCK CHUCK CHUCK THANKS FOR AN AWESOME SENIOR FORMAL WEEKEND AND AN AWESOME THREE AND A HALF YEARS II II II HERE'S TO A GREAT FUTURE DR. MADDENIIIIII LOVE YOUIIIII JILL JILL JILL JILL JILL JILL 
CONGRADS on your ENGAGEMENT, MIMI and TREYII! 
Monarch Briget's tonite 8-11 be there 

0 HOLY ST. JUDE, APOSTLE AND MARTYR, GREAT IN VIRTUE AND RICH IN MIRACLE NEAR KINSMAN OF JESUS CHRIST, FAITHFUL INTERCES­SOR OF ALL WHO INVOKE YOUR SPE­CIAL PATRONAGE IN TIME OF NEED, TO YOU I HAVE RECOURSE FROM THE DEPTH OF MY HEART AND HUMBLY BEG TO WHOM GOD HAS GIVEN SUCH GREAT POWER TO COME TO MY ASSISTANCE. HELP ME IN MY PRESENT URGENT PETITION. IN RETURN I PROMISE TO MAKE YOUR NAME KNOWN AND CAUSE YOU TO BE INVOKED. SAY THREE OUR FATHERS, THREE HAIL MARYS AND GLORIAS. PUBLICATION MUST BE PROMISED. ST. JUDE THIS NOVENA HAS NEVER BEEN KNOWN TO FAIL. 
THANK YOU SAINT JUDE!I 
And Now For Something Completely Dif­
ferent ... 
Monty Python's 
GRAHAM CHAPMAN 
at O'Laughlin Aud"orium 
Sunday, April 24th 
7:30 tickets: $5 students-$! 0 public Ticket Stub-LaFortune O'Laughlin Box Office Century Center Ticket Office 
BRING OUT YOUR DEAD! Graham Chapman Tickets on sale now 
GRAHAM CHAPMAN 
GRAHAM CHAPMAN 
GRAHAM CHAPMAN 
GRAHAM CHAPMAN 
FOR SALE: one-way flight to PHILLYI Only $100. Leavea South Bend on Sst. after finala. Call John at 2004 
OH, MY GOD, THEY'RE BACKII 
the Labian Miners are coming!!! 
Sunbunny Its lonely in here at night 
RIDE NEEDED to Indy or IU Bloomington this weekend for UL 500 Will share ex­penses. Call x3141 
ZEP FEST II '88 
THURSDAY 4-21 from 3 p.m. to 1 a.m. 1628 Portage Avenue Come fill your head with Led... 
IIIII JELLO WRESTLING IS BACK •• THURSDAY, 5:00, SMC IIIII 
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT with Royal Praetlge. $3250 plus for 13 weeks. Excellent ex­perience for future reaumel Positions available In Michigan, Indiana and Ohio. Automobile required. For more Information come to Morris Inn, Alumni Room, Thuradey April 21st at 2:10 or 4:10. 
1-WAY TICKET ANYWHERE, $80. CALL KIM 2871 
Dearest Sexyfeet 
Roses are Red 
Violets are Blue 
I Uke Your Feet 
And I Love You Sexylegs 
P. S. I am awestruck at the thought of touching your knees. P.P.S. REPUBLICANS FOR DUKAKIS -JOIN THE FUNIII 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY DIANE RICKERII HAPPY BIRTHDAY DIANE RICKERII HAPPY BIRTHDAY DIANE RICKERII HAPPY BIRTHDAY DIANE RICKERII Hope you have a graet dayl R&B 
FF5 SMC-ND LONDON SUMMER PRO­GRAM (May 18-June 17) LATE CAN­CELLATIONS HAVE CREATED 3 OPENINGS Program includes travel in Ireland, Wales, Scotland, England & France Courses available in Buec, Art, Soc, Bio, & Hist Call Prof. AR.Biack at 284-4460 (office) or 272-3726 (home). 
MIKE DIVITTORIO is 21 today/ Now is when the real party starts . . . HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
LE CERCLE FRANCAIS •••••••• SOIREE ••••••••• Monday April 25 7-10 ISO Lounge Food, Fun, Music, Slides 
Whoever took my gray jacket !rom Stepan courts Monday: I'd like it bsck. Call Chris at x1694. 
LAST CHANCE TO DANCE! 
Apr. 22, 7:30-10:30 NOOMC Ballroom Dancers At Knights of Columbus 
DON'T MISS IT 
NO SAILING CLUB""".ND SAILING CLUB"""" Happy hour Thursday at 8pm. You know where, if not call Liz SMC­4145. 
Hey Bud! Just wanted to wish you GOOD LUCK in W.Va. & GA. Say hi to Spud--dl'll see him soonII know you'll do great They've got to love you (because I sure dol) See you Fri. for some strawberries! Love, your favorite biker. (But we have to go there, it'll be so pretty!) 
Betty To the one who's seen me through numerous psychos, Scary Obsessions, "cut credir, Newlie (H20 Bed), and basic hellorama -HAPPY 21st! You're the best! Attractive-Sex Appeal-Use 11?1 HUH­Imagine Thall Tally Ho, Slammer 
To "my" prince: I can kiss you, but I can't bug you? Where are your priorities? Where is this going? Forever personal? So many questions ... your Princess 
PARTY AT BREWHA'S Friday-9 PM You're invrted! 
15 quotes from the BUFORD'S PARTY weekend in HELL: "I'm not bringing any clothes lor a baseball game" "Stop reading. Let's go "Ali!!" "Just go to the front desk and validate the damn ticket!" "Mr. David Buford called and said they"ll be late" 'What time did you leave Brian?" "I'm going to change to my dancing jacket" "The gas gauge doesn't work" "There's only one Summit st on the map" "I'm not sleeping with him in a king size 
bed" "I'm not paying for that wine!" "Lei me drink from lhe champagne bottle" "I need to find a post office" "These were the 'best ol times'" "She wants pizza d???t" "Put the alcohol outside the door" "Your dumb, stupid Dave..: "This is the best chicken I've ever had, even cold" "You're making too much noise" "Hold the door, Brian" 'Where's our luggage?" 
Kristin-! Good Luck! We know you can do ill SMILE! Love, Mol, Ei, Mare GO IRISH! 
MONARCH TONIGHT AT BRIGET'S .85 STROH CANS EXPERIENCE CLASSIC ROCK! 8-11 
Novice Women's HWS 
IWsoveriFromPhilly­
arlesto­
girlwho'sinbow(um..Kristin 
..Thelma),Stella,Amy"wow",Dana, 
Smegneii.Kathyblades,Mo&Amy 
Elizabeth: 
ThanksforallthefunandFriendship. 
l'llmissyouKathy ,Amy&Stella. Take 
Europebystormforme. LoveYouall Mary 
TOM, I LOVE ITII 
I LOVE ITII 
I LOVE ITII 
But I Don't Love 
You 
The Truly Ugly Come In Pairs! 
Vote for 
Maureen "Ugly MO on Campus" Kelly 
and her ugly running mate 
Lisa "I'm Really Ugly" Abbott 
UMOC UMOC UMOC 
TOP 5 U.M.O.C. Candidates 
1. 
Carl "Chip" Starn 

2. 
Maureen "Ugly Mo" Kelly 

3. 
Lisa "really ugly" Abbott 

4. 
Dave "the ugly accountant" Lese 

5. 
Nan Saver 


Amy Rochon's Top Ten Birthday Quotes 
10. £$1£ Yes, we're going to spend $20,0001 
9. You gotta do the managerial! 
8. I'm having the besl timel 
7. I'm so coon 
6. Thanks for the shot Stacey! 
5. I don't care, I can't even see youl 
4. Whatever you think is best 
3. You wouldn't beleive how flexible I ami 
2. I'm so sorry! 
1. Ride the pony! 
Yo Betty!!! Beth Switek is legal I Happy 21st Betty! 
Hey, Man 
Like Brian Doherty is 
playin at Senior Bar wit The Groove 
Thurs. nile. Come on out! 

Wednesday, April 20, 1988 
The Observer page 11 
Sports Briefs 
In the NHL quarterfinal openers Tuesday night, Jari Kurri broke a 1-1 tie with 6:37 remaining to lead Edmonton over Calgary 3-1 and Detroit edged St. Louis 5-4 behind Shawn Burr's two goals. In games tonight Boston will face Montreal at the Forum, and Washington hosts New Jersey at the Capital Centre. Montreal and Washington both won their openers Monday night. -Associated Press 
David Rivers and former Notre Dame forward Ken Barlow are two of the 93 players invited to the 1988 men's Olympic basketball trials. The first set of trials will take place May 18-24 in Colorado Springs, Col., and the 12 players to make the U.S. Olympic team will be decided on before Sept. 2. -The Observer 
The Blue-Gold Game will take place Saturday, April23, at 1:30 p.m. at Notre Dame Stadium. Students will be admitted free upon presentation of a student ID card at Gates 15 and 16 only. -The Observer 
The ND Water Polo club will have a meeting to elect officers for next year on Wednesday at 7 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Any questions should be directed to Marty Watts at 288-8732. -The Observer 
The ND Sailing team placed second overall last weekend in the Midwest Novice Championships at Mic­higan. Tom Sessions with crew Greg Barlow won the 'A' division, and Mike Norman with crew Chris Blum placed second in the 'B' division. Other members of the team traveled to Ohio State for a regatta in which the Irish placed eighth in a fleet of 15 teams. The women's sailing team travels to Ohio Wesleyan this weekend for the Midwest Women's Championships. The Sailing Club will host a dinner meeting at the Rib Shack tonight. Members should meet at the boathouse at 6 p.m. -The Observer 
The women's rugby team will have practice Wednesday, April20, at 4:30p.m. on Stepan Field. All mem­bers and anyone else interested in joining the team should attend. -The Observer 
The ND crew team will hold a meeting for both varsity and novice members on Wednesday at 7:45p.m. in Room 118 of Nieuwland Science Hall to pay for T-shirts and the Texas trip. Bring raffle tickets. -The Observer 

UNCN ~ ST/ITCN 
CELEBRATE YOUR GRADUATION IN STYLE South Bend's Historic Art Deco Train Station is a Great Place for Your Graduation Party. We have halls to accomodate 25 to 600 people. CALL 233-2876 

283-3433 AttD WISH A [}{]@~ OODR&[NJ®CMJ TO LE"ORE REZ"ICK 
Wrestling, track sign recruits 
Special to The Observer 
Five top-flight high school wrestlers have signed national letters of intent to enroll in the University of Notre Dame this fall. 
Tim Anderson, a first-team All-American candidate from West Des Moines, Iowa, heads the list. Considered to be the top high school wrestler in Iowa this year, Anderson picked up his second consecutive state championship at Dowling High School in the 126-pound divi­sion. His 140-17-2 career record is the winningest mark in Iowa high school wrestling history. Anderson placed first in the na­tional junior (18 and under) championships last year in his weight class. 
Anderson will be joined at Notre Dame by a high school teammate, 177-190 pounder Curt Engler. Engler, a native of Peru, Iowa, compiled a 95-8-1. career record and captured the Iowa state crown last season in his weight division. He also finished sixth at the 1987 junior national competition. 
Heavyweight Chuck Weaver will provide instant help for the Irish in that division. Another first-team All-America can­didate, Weaver won the Okla­homa state title as both a junior and senior at Midwest City High School. He rolled up an impressive 130-5-1 record in high school, including a 78­match winning streak. 
Mike Sheehy will wrestle at 118 for the Irish after winning the Illinois state title in that division last year. A three-time state finalist, Sheehy compiled a 146-7 record at St. Edward's High School in Elgin, Ill. 
Marcus Gowens, a 126­pounder from Del City High School in Del City, Okla, rounds out the quintet. Gowens placed in the always-tough Oklahoma state high school tournament four times while going 95-12 during his career. He placed fifth in his division at last year's junior national cham­pionships. 
A pair of middle-distance runners, Shawn Schneider and Brian Peppard, have signed national letters of intent to en­roll in the University of Notre Dame next fall and run both cross country and track. 
Schneider has had a standout 
prep career at Archbishop Ryan High School in Philadel­phia, Pa. He won the Catholic League cross country cham­pionships this year, his first ever as a member of the har­rier squad. 

Cahill, Peltier receive honors 
CeCe Cahill, a standout freshman on Notre Dame's wo­men's tennis team has been se­lected by the Volvo Midwest Region Award Committee as the Midwest Rookie of the Year. Cahill, a native of Hinsdale, Ill., is included in a select group of eight regional rookies of the year, as selected by Volvo, that will be consid­ered for national rookie of the year honors. 
Cahill, currently 37-5 at num­ber one for the Irish, is ranked 
Guide 
continued from page 16 
in their past two outings. J.C. Trebus provides the inside scoring while Bill ZadeH can put the ball in the hole from the inside or outside. 
Paris $229 Madrid $220 Shannon $225 
52nd among all Division I players in this week's Volvo1TCA rankings. Regionally, Cahill is ranked third behind Indiana's Rika Minoki (29-17) and Kelly Mul­vihill (34-10). 
On May 6, the top four players in each region will be selected to compete in this year's NCAA championships. 
Notre Dame sophomore 
The 9th seed is Who's Next, who's next for Tofu. Swingman Joel Rump is the scorer for this team which features four retur­nees from last year's team which reached the final eight. Steve Nicgorski fills the fifth spot and the lane. The tenth seed is Pop A Shot At Senior Bar. This is a revised version of last year's final eight team 
Tel Aviv $355 Rio $385 Tokyo $499 


Council Travei/CIEE the largest and oldest student travel network in America has 1DO's of student, youth and budget a1r fares worldwide. Scheduled carriers! Book. anytime' Guaranteed reserva­tions! Flexible returns! Fly in/out any c1ty1 Some restrictions apply. Above fares 1/2 round trip from Chicago. Call us for FREE Student Travel Catalog. 
CoundiTravel 
G 
831 Foster St. 29 E. Delaware P~. vanston. IL 60201 Ch1cago, IL 60611 
312/4 75-5070 -312/951-0585 
1 800 545 8999 
rightfielder Dan Peltier has been named the Midwestern Collegiate Conference's spring athlete of the week for the per­iod ending April18. Peltier was 14 for 29 (.483) in six games last week. The Clifton Park, N.Y. native, went 12 for 20 as the Irish won three of four from Detroit to clinch a spot in the MCC playoffs, including a triple, home run and 11 RBI. He needs just one more double this year to break the single­season mark of 15. 
New Order, with returning guards Joe Hills and Ralph Fer­rara sticking it from the out­side as Chris Jenks and Ray Blajda return underneath along with new team member Steve Bynum. 
The 11th seed is Put It In The Hole Again, Chief. Dan Nieder­meyer's quickness and scoring have led this team to date, while John Sheehan can also put it in the hole again and again, chief. The 12th seed in the Sweet 16 is Minahoonies. Self-proclaimed by Pete Graham as "definitely not a crowd favorite," Minahoonies throws around the beef under­neath, while Steve Antonelli is one of the best guards left in the tournament. 
At the 13th seed is Corporate Raiders. Michael Smith paces the Raiders' scoring while Pat Walsh runs the show at point guard for a repeat sweet 16 team. The 14th seed is A Bad Dude, A Cool Buzz and a Tasty Wave. Chris Carlson plays the point and can fill up the hoop, as can forward Mike Shimota. Not a big team, A Bad Dude ... plays pesky defense which helps their transition game. 
The 15th seed is Kinkoids, last year's 4 Fags And A Zahmbie. Mike Nee and Paul Gruber post up opponents un­derneath while Dan Michelini adds scoring punch for Lou's 2 QBs' ... opponent today. And the final seed, No. 16, is Swaggart, Bakker and 3 Other.... Upset winners over Top Gun yester­day, Swaggart and company boast a balanced scoring at­tack and scappy play. 
There you have it. 16 teams. Today, Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Probably cold wea­ther. Probably an upset or two or more. Only one team will go undefeated... that's the only thing you can bet on. Besides that, anything goes. Because it's Bookstore. 


Wednesday, April 20, 1988 

page 12 The Observer 

AP Photo 

From being acquitted In 1986 for point shaving IIams. At 40-40, the Cavaliers have assured them­to earning a spot In the NBA playoffs--that's the selves of a playoff spot. road traveled by Cleveland's John 'Hot Rod' Wll-
AL roundup 
Orioles tie AL loss record 
Associated Press staggering Minnesota Twins 7-Blue Jays 12, Royals 3 
6 Tuesday night. TORONTO--Jesse Barfield 
MILWAUKEE--Baltimore hit a grand slam to cap a seven­tied a major league record with Athletics 8, Angels 3 run third inning and Jim Clancy its 13th straight loss from the OAKLAND, Calif.--tied a club record with 12 start of the season Tuesday Oakland's Dave Stewart sur­strikeouts, leading the Toronto night as Paul Molitor hit a vived three balks and seven Blue Jays over the Kansas City three-run homer to help the California hits in seven innings Royals 12-3 Tuesday night. Milwaukee Brewers beat the to beat the Angels 8-3 Tuesday Clancy, 1-2, tied the mark es­Orioles 9-5. night. tablished by Pete Vuckovich 
The Orioles equaled the Reliever Rick Honeycutt got versus Baltimore on July 26, losing streaks of the Washing­the first out in the eighth, and 1977. Clancy pitched seven in­ton Senators in 1904 and the Dennis Eckersley finished up nings and allowed six hits. John Detroit Tigers in 1920. Bal­for his sixth save in six save Cerutti and Duane Ward timore will go for the record opportunities. finished. Wednesday night in Mil­Rangers 3, Indians 0 waukee. Red Sox 7, Tigers 3 CLEVELAND--Jose Guzman 
The franchise record for con­DETROIT--Roger Clemens pitched six shutout innings and secutive losses is 14. Once in struck out 11 in eight innings Larry Parrish drove in two Baltimore in 1954, and twice as the Boston Red Sox beat the runs with a bases-loaded single when the team was based in St. Detroit Tigers and Jack Morris Tuesday night as the Texas 
Louis. 7-3 Tuesday night. Rangers beat Cleveland 3-0. 
Baltimore, struggling to The loss was only the second score runs and with a .186 team Clemens, 3-0, allowed seven in the last 13 games for the In­batting average entering the hits en route to his first career dians, who at 11-3 are off to game, took a 3-0 lead in the first victory at Tiger Stadium. their best start since 1966. inning, but then collapsed in the Clemens struck out at least 10 field en route to its seventh for the third time in four starts 
Guzman, 2-1, struck out three straight loss under Manager and leads the American and walked one and allowedFrank Robinson. Robinson League with 44 strikeouts, only four singles in six innings. 

took over for Cal Rip ken Sr., 
who was fired last week. 
~----------------,t 
White Sox 7, Mariners 2 
tt Due to Last Minute Cancellations tt
SEATTLE--Carlton Fisk hit two home runs and the Chicago 
It 3 openings are available for Summer tl
White Sox beat the Seattle Mariners 7-2 Tuesday night, ex­tt Program in London. tt tending their winning streak to 
tt Join SMC-ND classmates in Ireland, Wales, tt
five games. Starting in the fifth inning t Scotland, and France. t with the score tied 2-2, Kenny 
!t Contact Prof. A. R. Black ttt
Williams, Ivan Calderon, Fisk and Harold Baines hit solo home runs in consecutive in­
~----~~~6~~~~~~---Jt 
nings off starter Mark 
Langston, 0-2. r-----------------------. 
Fisk homered in the seventh 
FORD -TOYOTA -VOLVO
and eighth. 
Jerry Reus, 1-1, held the Mariners to four hits in five in­nings for the victory. 
Yankees 7, Twins 6 
MINNEAPOLIS--Rickey Henderson, Bobby Meacham and Mike Pagliarulo drove in 
PH: 259-1981 
two runs each in a six-run 
second inning that carried the 
~~ New York Yankees past the •'•I:J.._~_IIIIIii.---------------L-.-iii.._. 
'Running joke' makes playoffs 
Owners' moves turn Cavs around 
Associated Press the right to draft center Brad 
Daugherty, an All-American at 

RICHFIELD, Ohio--In just North Carolina. In the next two years, the management of couple of hours, the team would the Cavaliers has turned also pick up Ron Harper of Cleveland's second-longest­Miami of Ohio and Price of running sports joke into a Georgia Tech. young squad bound for the NBA playoffs. But there was more. Even 
After two close games with when the Cavaliers appeared to the Cavaliers in December, one be making nice, even progress of them won by Cleveland, Los this year--playing .500 ball-­Angeles Laker Earvin general Manager Wayne "Magic" Johnson described the Embry and his staff were not 
Cavaliers as the National Bas­satisfied. They went on a limb ketball Association team of the by making a trade this winter 1990s. to the Phoenix Suns for Larry 
But the Cavaliers, who Nance and Mike Sanders. clinched only their fifth playoff berth in 18 years, and just their It took the team some time second in 10 years Monday to adjust to the trade, but few night with a 112-107 victory are doubting that it has paid over the Indiana Pacers, are off. The Cavaliers have won surprising many people by nine of their past 11 contests, making in impact now. The including games against Eas­team has a 40-40 record, 30-10 tern Conference powers the At­at home. lanta Hawks and the Boston 
"People were saying we Celtics. were too young, a good team for the future. We want to be a "We've definitely moved one good team now," said second­level higher," Wilkens said. year guard Mark Price. 
Cleveland is assured of at The Cavaliers, who have two least the No. 7 playoff spot in more regular season games, the Eastern Conference and will enter the playoffs with could go as high as fifth. Daugherty, Williams, Price 
"I think we're a little ahead and Harper only in their second of the timetable most people NBA seasons. had for this team," said Coach Lennie Wilkens. "I'm very "What it means is that we proud of our players, what made it, baby," Harper said. they've done." "We're over that first moun­
The rebuilding of the tain. When I came here, Cavaliers started in the sum­everybody said it would be four mer of 1986, when John "Hot years before we can really Rod" Williams was acquitted compete. We're way ahead of in the Tulane point-shaving shcedule and now we're going case. Later in the week, on the for it all--a winning record for morning of the NBA draft, the the year and a big push in the Cavaliers dealt Roy Hinson for 
1212 High Street South Bend 
5' x 5' --$15 I month 5' x 1 0' --$20 I month 1 0' x 1 0' --$32 I month 10' x 20' --$45 I month other siees available 
288-3575 

************************************ 
* * 
~ Check out... ~ 
* *
* *
i THE GROOVE i 
* * 
* *
* *
*~ winner of this year's Nazz competition *~ ! and : 
llf'IIIIIHIIIIHIIIIIII...IIIHIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIII..IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII..IIIIIIIIIIII..UDIIIIIIII* 
,...............................................................................................................................» 
$ Catholics in Bad : *~····························································································································.,...* 
~....................................... Standing··...................................~ 
~···············..······················· ...................................... 
............................................................................................................................. 
* * 
~ another campus favorite ! * *
* *
* * 
* * 
* *
* * 
* *
* *
* *
* * 
* *
* * 
************************************* 
Wednesday, April 20, 1988 
The Observer 
Men's Bookstore XVII: The Sweet Sixteen 
I'D Pia , No I Won't ...(3) ST 5
BK10~~~~~~~~-­
5:30 ~----~ 
A t.d clwle a cool buzz... (14) 5 :30 
BKto..____ ____.BK9 
Put it in the hole Olief (11) BK
It( 10Who'• Net (9) 4:30 
8:15 Tofu'• Lut (8) 
ST 5 "';;!:!;:,.:,::~:.....------. 
8:15 Minlhooniell (12) 
t----.... BK g te RaWen (13) 
5:30 Hahn'• FaPinl Home (4) 
LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Toke o hlesov•ng Red Crqss CPR course
+American Red Cross 

page 13 
Results 
continued from page 16 
Wad's Last Shot; and Lou's 2 QB's and 2 Blind Guys silenced Pump up the Volume 21-15 be­hind Tony Rice's 8-for-13 shoot­ing. 
Adworks' All-Stars remained the team to beat in many people's eyes after fending off a pesky Ferrence and 4 Other Guys Who Can Turn Their Necks 21-14. Few teams can match up inside with Adworks' Gary Voce and Matt Dingens, or in the backcourt with Kevin Keyes (six-for-nine) and Ricky Watters. Voce summed up his team's chances to go all the way. 
"I've got to think we've got a big advantage on the boards," said the 6-9 Voce, who had six points and seven rebounds yesterday. "But I think it might come down to our guards. Kevin's had a couple of off games, but he played well today and I think he's on stride." 
Jim Ferrence had seven points for his team. 
Tofu's Last Gig made its long-awaited entrance to the Sweet 16 an impressive one by derailing Orange Blossom Spe­cial 21-11 behind J.C. Trybus' eight points. Tofu shows some of the best team cohesiveness of any of the remaining squads, and forward Bill Zadell wonders just how far they can go. 
"After we got in front (11-4) in the first half," said ZadeH, who had four points, "we talked about not playing against our­selves in the second. We're doing the things we want to do: passing well, shooting pretty decent. If we keep it up we can play with just about anybody. But who knows. We're just glad Check the Ice is out of it." 
In other games, Tom Veltz's 8-for-13 shooting led 5 Slamma Jamma over Uncle Fester and the Chiefs 21-16; Put It In the Hole Again, Chief grounded Butch and the Boxcars 21-18, as Danny Niedermeyer hit on 8-for-11; A Bad Dude, A Cool Buzz shook Debi Gibson, You're Ours 21-12; and Chips Bar spoiled SOMFAW'S Return 21-13 behind Derrick Johnson's five-for-six effort. 
Corporate Raiders proved last year was no fluke by re­turning to the final16, this year without Cedric Figaro. Michael Smith, 10-for-18 on the day, likes his team's chances as it comes down to crunch time. 
"We run the break pretty well," said Smith, whose squad won 21-10 yesterday over Return of the Fugitive Guys. "Pat Walsh works really hard, and when we work the break the way we want, we're usually OK. It'll be tough to board with the taller guys from now on, but we should be able to out­quick most teams." 
In the rest of yesterday's ac­tion, Who's Next. .. disposed of Whubus and his 4 Friends 21­13; Kinkoids blasted The Ex­plosive Packages and Boomer 21-13 behind Dan Michelini's seven points; and Hahn's Fu­neral Home abandoned SOS 21­16. 
The Sweet 16 melts down to the Elite Eight today as seeds are announced. See the bracket on page for team matchups. 
The Observer 

4:30  
..___--1  
ST t.___  __. ST 1  
4:30  ST 1  5:30  
2:00  

BK9

1-----15:30 
Shutout 
continued from page 16 
The Bouncers were led by the strong shooting of Amy Regan and Tracey Shelton, as each had 6 points. 
Three members of the Boun­cers, Chris Rosso, Rachel Hall and Shelton, are on the Notre Dame volleyball team. 
Just Can't Get Enough got enough in their 21-1 victory 
8 
Adworb AD-Stan (6) 8:15 
5 Slaaunl en ST 1 •lhot at Senior .... (10) 5 :30 
KinJroide ns> ST 1 
....____,... 

• and 2Blind Men (2) 8:15 ObMrwr ONiphic 
over Ode to Dock. Notre Dame women's basketball coach Muffet McGraw helped the team wun ner basketball expe­rience. 
Yurtles and Turtles, Stubble Shooters, Educators and Femme Fatale all had strong victories over their opponents. 
All teams still alive will play tomorrow on Angela Courts as the pack narrows down to 16 teams. 
·nw Amt•ncui E\11ress' Card gets an outst.:UJding welcome mtuallv amwhere vou shop. whether it's for a leatlll'r tacket or a leather-hound classic. \\hether 1ou r~ hound for a bookstore or a beach in Kemlllda. So during college :U!d after. 1t's the perfect way to pay for lUSt about evel\thiiig vou'll w:UJt. 
How to get the Card now. College is the hrst sign of success. And because we hel_iew in vour potential. we've made it easier to gel the American E:>.1Jrt'S.~ Card nght now \\hetlwr vou're a freshman. se111or or grad student. li)()k into our new automatic ;tpproval oft'ers for details. pick up ~m application on campus. Or call 1-HOO-TII E-CAR.D :U!d :t.~k for a student application. 111e American Express Card. 
Don't Leave School Without It~.. 

----~·----~--------~--------­
Wednesday, April 20, 1988

page 14 The Observer 
Phillies top Mets for fourth time 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK--Mike Schmidt 
and Lance Parrish each hit two 

run-scoring singles, Von Hayes 
doubled twice and drove in two 
runs and Don Carman pitched 
a seven-hitter Tuesday night as 
the Philadelphia Phillies 
routed the New York Mets 10-2. 
Schmidt, who entered the game batting just .191, went 3­for-4 in a 14-hit attack. He started a four-run fourth inning with an RBI single and his run­scoring hit in the fifth made it 6-1 and chased Bob Ojeda, 2-1. 
Ojeda had pitched 15 con­secutive scoreless innings before the Phillies put together five singles in the fourth. Ojeda, angry with home plate umpire Bob Davidson for two balk calls, threw his glove into the first-base stands as he exited into the Mets' dugout after being knocked out of the game. 
Carman improved his record to 2-1. 
Reds 8, Giants 0 
CINCINNATI--Dennis Ras­mussen pitched a four-hitter and Nick Esasky drove in four runs with a single and a homer Tuesday night to lead the Cin­cinnati Reds to an 8-0 victory over the San Francisco Giants. 
Rasmussen, 1-1, struck out four in his second career shutout. 
Pirates 3, Cardinals 0 
PITTSBURGH--Brian Fis­her won his seventh straight decision by pitching a seven-hit shutout and Barry Bonds doubled, singled and drove in a run as the streaking Pit­tsburgh Pirates beat the St. Louis Cardinals 3-0 Tuesday night. 
Expos 9, Cubs 1 

CHICAGO--Dennis Martinez pitched a six-hitter and Tim Wallach homered as Montreal beat the Chicago Cubs 9-1 Tues­day for the Expos' fourth straight victory. 
Martinez, 2-2, struck out five and walked none en route to his first complete game. 
Braves 5, Astros 4 
HOUSTON--Ted Simmons' three-run eighth-inning home run powered the Atlanta Braves to a 5-4 victory over the Houston Astros Tuesday night. 
Simmons' game-winning hit came after Gary Roenicke reached on an error by shortstop Rafael Ramirez and Dale Murphy singled. 
Padres-Dodgers, rain 
LOS ANGELES--Tuesday night's game between Los An­geles and San Diego was postponed by rain, marking only the 13th time that a game at Dodger Stadium has been rained out since the Dodgers began playing there in 1962. 
Los Angeles' Fernando Valenzuela and San Diego's Jimmy Jones, the schedule< pitchers for Tuesday night, have been rescheduled to start Wednesday night. 


Juan Samuel and the Philadelphia Ph lilies appear to have the Mets' number this season. The Ph lilies 

WMU hammers Irish 28-10 
Associated Press 
KALAMAZOO, Mich.--Dale 

Hongisto and Bob Reimink 
each drove in six runs as West­
ern Michigan bombed Notre 
Dame 28-10 in college baseball 
Tuesday. 
Hongisto hit for the cycle in 

going 5-for-7 at the plate, while 
Reimink went 4-for-6, including 
a two-run homer. 
John Hemingway also went 4­for-5 with two RBI. 
The Broncos scored eight runs each in the second and sixth innings. 
Western Michigan estab­lished team records for hits (27, breaking the mark of 25 set against Toledo on May 7, 1955) and runs scored (eclipsing the record of 26 set twice). 
J.D. DeMare, 2-0, earned the victory despite allowing four runs, three of them earned, in 2 2-3 innings of relief. 
Irish starter Mike Passilla, 
Thanks to you ... itwortcs... 

2-4, pitched one inning, allow­ing seven runs. Western Michigan is 17-11, while Notre Dame is 23-17. 
Notre Dame has allowed a total of 72 runs in its last five games. 
Purdue 18, Butler 0 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.-­Purdue 's Mike Galle hit a grand slam and Mike Drum 
threw a two-hitter to shut out Butler 18-0 in college baseball Tuesday. 


Drum improved his record 3­

2. Butler's Scott Johnson col-...-----------------------. lected both of the hits off him. 
ND AVE APTS. 
Bob Kent, 1-6, took the loss for Butler, 7-17. The 16-23 Boilermakers' Jeff SPECIAL SUMMER RATES AVAILABLE Kapp went 3-for-3 with three also renting for Fall 
RBI. 


2 Bedrooms completely furnished CALL 234-6647 
Protected by Pinkerton Security Agency 

Happy 21st, Gump. Love, Rosie's gang 
for ALL 
Happy Birthday 
OFUS 
BRENDA! (Today is your birthday, right?) 

• From the party clan:
Unlliedway 
Roger, Trebor, Sin bad, Seymour,
Help llrevent Birth Defects ~ Support the 
Francis, Tara, and 
\Sf.' ~l~VK9.!J?o!n'~ 
M.J. 

Wednesday, April 20, 1988 The Observer page 15 
The Daily Crossword
Campus 


Wednesday 
12 p.m.: White Center on Law and Government Lecture, "A Republic, Madam, If You Can Keep It," by Professor Forrest McDonald, University of Alabama, Room 220 Law School. 
12:10 p.m.: Closed Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 
3:30p.m.: Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Seminar, "Flow Separation Over Moving Bodies," by Professor Shen, Cornell, Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering. 
4:30p.m.: Tri-Military Presidential Review, Joyce ACC South Parking Lot. 7:30p.m.: Law School Federalist Lecture, "Power Politics and Strategy," by Major Lademan, USMC, Naval War College, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune 
Student Center. 
·Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Lasagna Baked Ham Monte Cristo Broccoli & Cheese Casserole 
Comics 
Bloom County 
Saint Mary's 
Philly Steak Sandwich Baked Fish Copenhagen Potato Deli Bar 
.. 



\ 
~\tv-
SEE DICk DD'ID 

Don't drink and drive 
A public service message from The Observer 
ACROSS 1 Lll Abner 
creator 5 -Plaines 8 Slangy 
negative 12 Kind of test 13 Legal term 14 "Lou Grant" 15 Hlp bones 16 A Chaplin 17 Purloined 18 James Bond 
movie 21 Small abodes 22 Celtic sea 
23 Stupefies 26 Wife of 
Osiris 28 Article 31 Take place 32 Short measure 33 Sp. ladles: 
abbr. 34 "-of the 
Third Kind" 37 Rattan 38 Solid food 39 Use a 
soapbox 40 Citizen of: suff. 41 Summer 
quenchers 42 Keeps clear of 43 Small fish 44 Kind of bridge 45 Matthau-
Burns movie 
53 Dingy dwelling 54 Before gee or 
meter 55 Old Gr. coin 56 Powerless 57 US playwright 58 Father 59 Hawaiian 
goose 60 Mao --tung 61 Boll slowly 
DOWN 1 Skullcap 2 A Guthrie 3 Duo 4 Theater 5 Portals 
Berke Breathed 

©1988 Tribune Media Ser<lces, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
04/20/88 
6 Plsclvorous bird 7 Command to 
Fldo 8 Fur merchant 9 Privy to 
10 Dickens' girl 11 Low card 13 Solicits 14 Ninnies 19 Bizarre 20 Root or Yale 23 lt. game 24 Brilliance 25 Oatmeal quick 
bread 26 Peruvians of 
old 27 Highlander 28 Groove pattern 29 Author Bret 30 Road curves 32 Arrow polson 33 Foreman of a 
kind 35 Ger. port 36 Variable stars 
Far Side 


47 Uniform 
48  Roasting rod  
49  Biddies  
50  Newspaper  
Item  
51  Long ago  
52  Killed  
Gary Larson  


41 Grown-up 42 Newsman Pyle 43 Fr. river 44 Song of 
lamentation 45 Scanty 46 Strop 



.. 
• 


8 & lOPM 

-
Sports 
Wednesday, April 20, 1988 
page 16 
Top Guns upset in Bookstore 
TWL gets top seed in Sweet 16 
By PETE SKIKO Assistant Sports Writer 
It was a day for the favorites Tuesday as Bookstore Basket­ball XVII rambled through to the round of 16 with nearly all the top seeds going virtually unscathed. 
111111111 


The lone casualty was a Tom Sluby-less Top Guns squad, which was shot down by Jimmy Swaggart, Jim Bakker, and 3 Other Guys Caught for Lane Vi­olations. Mike Caballero, Kevin Whelan and Ed Cosgrove each had five points for the win­ners. 
Other than that upset, the pretenders have been weeded out as the Sweet 16 prepares to commence (seeds are listed on page 13). 
"I'm kind of surprised that 15 of the top 16 have made it this far," said Tournament Commissioner Mike Manning. "Considering all the freshman talent that we couldn't account or going into the tourney, I think the fact that there was only one upset was an upset in itself. It'll be interesting to see how our seeds work out from here on in." 

In what Manning called an unavoidable situation, one team, Ministers Of Pain, was forced to play twice as a result of a forfeit by Four Brothers and a Sweet J. Four Brothers had played with Todd Lyght, who had already played on an­other squad, against Debi Thomas, Dan Jensen, ... in the round of 64. After Four Brot­hers had played, the violation 
was discovered, and in keeping with tournament rules, Four Brothers was disqualified and Debi Thomas,... got a shot at Ministers of Pain. 
The Ministers won that 4:45 contest 21-18, but were then forced to play again at 6: 15 against Minahoonies in the round of 32. Minahoonies, be­hind Pete Graham's six points, made short work of The Minis­ters, 21-9. 
In other action, AI Martin shot 7-for-12 as I'll Play, No I Won't demolished Yo... What Up? 21-14; Sean Cullinan and Chris Nanni combined to shoot 18-for-26 as Tequila White Lightning showed its vintage late round form in a 21-15 win over Swaggart, Reagan and Three Other Guys; Pop a Shot at Senior Bar's Ralph Ferrara scored ten points in his team's 21-16 victory over Johnny 
see RESULTS, page 13 


Blowouts the rule at Angela 
By JANE SHEA Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Women's Bookstore Bas­ketball Tournmaement field was narrowed down to 32 teams as play continued yesterday at Saint Mary's Angela Courts. 
WOIEIIS ~~·· 
111666atatJ •• 
This is Why We Chose to Run Track ran over Miners 21-5. Composed of five girls who run for the Notre Dame women's cross country team, Run Track made quick work of the Miners. 'Sure-Shooter' Kristen Carty led Run Track with nine points. 
"Our enthusiasm, quickness, endurance and team play all helped in our win over the Miners," said Carty. 
The Miners could not stop the fast breaks and rebounding ability of Run Track. The Miners were able to get the ball down the court, but could not get it in the basket and did not score once after the haftime break. 
In the first shutout of the Wo­men's Basketball Tourname­ment, Jeromone and the Boun­cers blasted pass Wonder Woman, Isis and Charlie An­gels 21-0. 
see SHUTOUT, page 13 

Scrimmages highlight returners, inconsistent kickers 
By PETE GEGEN 
Sports Writer 
Never before had special teams received so much press as last season, when Tim Brown returned his way to the Heisman Trophy. 
Brown may be gone, but the glamour still lingers. The highlight of Friday's 

.. scrimmage was an 86-yard kickoff return for a touchdown by Mark Green, Brown's heir apparent at both the flanker and kickoff return positions. With the experienced blocking of Anthony Johnson, Braxton Banks and Joe Jarosz forming the wedge, Green found his way through a mixture of scholar­ship and walk-on players. 
Of course it may be too much to start comparing Green to Brown, and in fact the punt­return assignment will not go to the same player who returns kicks, as it did last season. Ricky Watters has been tabbed the number-one punt returner, returning one punt 26 yards in Tuesday's scrimmage. 
"Last year we wanted Tim to touch the ball as often as pos-
SPRIHCi FOOTBALL 
Special Teams 
sible," said assistant coach George Stewart. "Now we don't want to wear down one back with both assignments. By having two different returners, it's sort of like spreading the wealth." 

Backing up Watters will be Todd Lyght. 
"Todd made it known to us that he wold like a shot at re­turning punts," said assistant coach Barry Alvarez. ··we put him back there, and so far he's done a good job." 
While the return teams have impressed this spring, the kick­ing teams have been less than spectacular. 
"If we had to pick a starting punter today, I don't know who it would be," says assistant co­ach Vinny Cerrato. "None of the punters have been consis­tent." 

Pete Hartweger, Jim Sexton and Sean Connor all have had their share of good punts and shanks in the scrimmages Tuesday and last Friday. While 
see PUNTERS, page 10 

A courtside guide to the Sweet 16 
• 
You can't hide from it any longer. 
It's been going on for nearly a month now, begin­ning with 666 teams. That means over 3300 players ranging from students to hall staff members, dining hall workers, law students, varsity coaches and even a University President. And now its coming to a close with 16 teams still in the running to walk off with all the marbles on Sunday. 
At Stepan, Lyons and the Bookstore, the crowds have been growing bigger and bigger each day as the field narrows. And they'll only continue to grow as the week goes on. The only question remaining besides "Who'll win it all?" is "Where is the sun?" Aren't we in April? Isn't this An Tostal week? Some­body better tell that to local weatherman Dick Ad­dis, who may just be cursing the tournament since he isn't part of a team's name (as in the 1986 classic Wave Your ... ). 
On a campus where pickup basketball is as popular as any course taught by a professor whose first name is A-B, the time has come for the cream of the crop to display their talents in front of these large partisan crowds. Here's a brief rundown of the 16 teams for whom the dream is still alive. 
The top seed of the Sweet 16 is Tequila White Lightning, the perennial Sweet 16 team. They've reached this point of the tournament for six straight years, including last year's Final Four appearance (Tequila lost to eventual champion 'Da Brothers of Manhood in the semifinals last year, 21-19). The Lou and Chris Nanni duo in the backcourt makes opposing guards shudder with their quick hands and smooth passing, while Sean Cullinan is tough at the forward spot. 

Brian O'Gara 
Irish Items 
The No. 2 seed is Lou's 2 QBs and 2 Blind Guys. No tricks in this name. At last year's Blue-Gold Game, Lou Holtz asked visiting senior Kent Graham and ineligible freshman Tony Rice if they would play on his Bookstore team in 1988, and a possible championship team was born. Add the strong inside play and mobility of George Baldus, and the scoring punch of Jeff Peters, and you've got the second seed. 
I'll Play, No I Won't holds down the No. 3 seed. Floor general AI Martin runs the show for this team, which includes former Leone's Stallions (two-time Bookstore bridesmaids) Martin, John Mundo and Bill Sullivan. John Kennedy joins Sullivan to provide scoring punch from the forward slots, while recently-acquired Paul Pasin fills up the center of the lane. 
The No. 4 seed is Hahn's Funeral Home, led by a guy who has done it all in Bookstore, Bubba Cun­ningham. A member of two championship teams (the last time on Lee's BBQ in 1986) and a former Mr. Bookstore, Cunningham's quickness leads to steals and pretty feeds to his teammates, including high-scoring Tom Antonini. 
The No. 5 seed is Chip's Bar. While Andy Heck gives Chip's scoring and a lot of space inside, fresh­man Derrick Johnson has been on a scoring tear (11 points yesterday). 
The sixth seed is Adwork's All-Stars. Adwork's is led on the inside by Gary Voce and last year's Mr. Bookstore John 'Booger' Buscher, if Buscher returns from an ankle injury sustained Monday. On the perimeter, Ricky Watters and Kevin Keyes have the moves and scoring touch to fill up the hoop. 
The No.7 seed is 5 Slamma Jamma. Ray Flan­nery, Chris Perozek and John Wassil return from last year's Final Four team 4 Slamma Jamma, and are joined by freshman Tom Veltz and Innsbruck­returnee Terry Maag to compose this year's chal­lengers for the title. 
The 8th seed is Tofu's Last Gig. Tofu plays very well together when they're on, and they have been 
see GUIDE, page 11 

----------------------------------------------------------------~ 




