
Par for the course 
J ACCENT: Reflections of a plunge Rain Tuesday and windy. High in the lower 40s. Chance of rain 80 percent. Rain continuing
IVIEWPOINT: The perils of Reaganomics 
Tuesday night. 

VOL. XXI, NO. 71 TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 1988 the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Teen arrested by ND Security·· 
By JIM RILEY He said he expects Security News Editor to file charges soon. 
Notre Dame Security has ar­Security is still investigating rested a 19-year-old South Bend a string of five book thefts in resident after interviewing him Pangborn Hall Friday which about several cases of theft on took place within a period of 40 the Notre Dame campus, said minutes, according to Rakow. Rex Rakow, director of Notre He said Security is monitoring Dame Security. Pandora's Books to see if any 
Jerome Lee was arrested of the books turn up there. Thursday at noon by Security, Rakow said. The St. Joseph County prose­
"There was a warrant out on cutor is still considering his arrest for a parole viola­charges against a man who was tion," said Rakow. "He's a arrested Jan. 7 in connection suspect in some of our cases, with a series of threatening and he was being interviewed phone calls made to Notre by us before the arrest." Dame students and members 
Rakow said Security wanted of their families, Rakow said. to talk to Lee concerning a se­Security had arrested Donald ries of checks written from a Jackley of South Bend on student's checkbook. The charges of intimidation and cri­checkbook had been reported minal confinement stemming as being in a bookbag which from threatening phone calls was stolen from South Dining made to students at Indiana 
Hall, Rakow said. University at Bloomington. 
The Observer I Susy Hernandez 
tudents stroll past North Dining Hall as construction continues to ove along at a fairly rapid pace even with a blanket of snow sur­ounding the facility. See story below. 

Construction goes on for dorms, dining 
By JENNIFER GRONER finished on the east hall Staff Reporter when the weather breaks, he said. 
Construction on North Furniture has already Dining Hall and two new wo­been ordered and is sched­men's dorms are on uled to be delivered this schedule and budget despite summer. Both dorms will be problems due to freezing ready for student occupancy weather, said Donald this fall. Dedrick, director of the Uni­versity's Physical Plant. Renovation of North 
The resident halls will be Dining Hall has been con­completed in late June. Work tinuing steadily thoughis being done on the interior much of the work is not floors during the cold wea­visible to students, Dedrick 
ther. Brick work is complete 
CAMPUS, p. 4
on the west hall and will be see 
Saint Mary's students walk past the Madeleva Sci­several students' faces seem to indicate their dis­ence Hall on the way to and from class on an ex­position toward a little sunshine during an otherwise ceptionally sunny day on campus. The smiles on bleak winter. 
Senate sets election dates 
By GREG LUCAS The election will be on Feb. constitution that would allow Senior Staff Reporter 16 and the run-offs are sched­earlier nomination of both the uled for Feb. 18. Student Union Board manager
The dates for the upcoming The informational meeting and committee chairperson.Student Government elections for those interested in running The proposed amendment, in­were approved Monday night in the class elections is set for troduced by Janel Blount, SUB by the Student Senate. Thursday, Feb. 18. A manda­manager, must also be ap­
The elections for student tory meeting will be held Tues­proved by the Hall Presidents' body president, vice president day, Feb. 23 and petitions are Council. and senators will begin with an due by Thursday, Feb. 25 at The constitution, as it now informational meeting for all noon. The election will take stands, allows the student body students interested in running place on March 8 with run-offs president and vice president on Thursday, Jan. 28. on the lOth. elect to vote on the approval of 
A mandatory meeting will be All meetings will take place the SUB manager and commit­held Tuesday, Feb. 2 and peti­at 6 p.m. in the Notre Dame tee chairperson. The amend­tions must be submitted to the room. ment would eliminate these Student Government office by In other business, the Senate Friday Feb. 5 at noon. approved an amendment to the see SENATE, p. 4 


'88 Mock Convention nearing 
By KIMBERLY TRENNER "Although it will be a long convention is currently under­Senior Staff Reporter shot, we are going to try to get way, said Willis. He said stu­all seven declared candidates dent volunteers for positions as Notre Dame students will to come and speak," said Wil­chairmen of state delegations soon be bombarded with cam­lis. Willis said that two candi­and campaign managers are paign buttons and literature as dates who may have an interest being chosen now. Applications the 1988 Mock National Conven­in coming are Notre Dame for the campaign, delegate, tion gets underway with cam­alumnus and presidential can­publicity,,promotion, platform paigning in early February. didate Bruce Babbitt, and the and rule committees are cur­
The convention, which will be Reverend Jesse Jackson. rently being accepted, said Wil­held April 11-14, is a quadren­Student delegates from all lis. nial tradition which began in fifty states, Guam, Puerto Rico A committee will plan the 1940. "It (the convention) will and the Virgin Islands will platform a week or two before be a big social event and a lot select a presidential and vice­the convention, Willis said. A of fun for people who get in­presidential nominee from the campus survey will be given to volved," said Vince Willis, Democratic party. "It (the con­determine which issues stu­Mock Convention Chairman. vention) will give the Notre dents would like in the plat­
The Democratic party will be Dame community the chance form. Willis said the committee the focus of the convention as to send the message about who will also look to the Democratic it is the party currently out of they feel the right candidate is party for issues. "We will look power. The convention is an ex­and to give their views about for controversy so it (the con-act half-scale model of the the issues," said Willis. Democratic convention. The organizing of the April see MOCK, p. 4 
page 2 The Observer Tuesday, January 19, 1988 
College $ problem? Then thank Congress 
• 

In Brief . 
65 cars crashed on the German autobahn Monday, miraculously leaving only one dead. The chain-reaction pileup, which was apparently touched off by a rear-end collision, forced authorities to close the superhighway for several hours. While no injury report was released, the number was believed to be quite large. -Associated Press 
Purdue's not chicken about hatching eggs. In fact, it leads the nation in hatching about 56 million chicks for egg production, says the Indiana Agricultural Statistics Service at Purdue University. Chicks outnumber Hoosiers 10-to-1, says the statisticians. Indiana farms ranked second in eggs produced, money received from eggs and chicken and duck populations. Also, Hoosier swine are worth about $396 million. Nationally, Indiana farms ranked third for most valuable swine. The state ranked fourth in swine population with about 4 million. 
-Associated Press 
Royal Air Force jets roared over Winchester, England in honor of Sir Thomas Sopwith, creator of the Sopwith Camel, workhorse of the British air force during World War I. Sopwith, who saw more than 16,000 of his planes produced to fight the "War to end all wars," could not see the fly-by because of glaucoma, was able to hear the flying tribute. -Associated Press 

! Of Interest 
Winterfest broomball teams must submit entrance re­quirements by Thursday, Jan. 21 in the Student Union Board office in order to confirm their spot in the tourna­ment. Games will be played Friday and Saturday night in the J.A.C.C. -The Observer 
Keenan Revue tickets will be distributed Friday. Distribution for Notre Dame students will start at 3 p.m. inside Gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. Saint Mary's students may pick up tickets at the O'Laughlin Auditorium box office beginning at 6 p.m. At both locations, no lines may be formed until one hour prior to distribution. The tickets are free, and the Revue will be held on Jan. 28, 29, and 30. 
-The Observer 
On-campus interviewing tips will be the topic of a presentation given this evening by Georgene Gorrell, Human Resources Officer for theNorthern Trust Company in Chicago. The presentation is sponsored by Career and Placement Services and will be held in the Hesburgh Li­brary Lounge from 6:30 to 7:30p.m. All majors are invited to attend. -The Observer 
The fifth anniversary of the Center for Social Concerns will be celebrated with an open house from 4 to 7 p.m. A light supper will be served at no cost. -The Ob­server 
Neighborhood Study Help Program needs tutors to work one hour twice a week. Sign-ups are tonight at the C.S.C. Festival, and Wednesday and Thursday at North and South and St.Mary's dining halls during lunch and dinner. An organizational meeting is Sunday, Jan. 24 at 6 p.m. in the CSC Multi-purpose Room. -The Observer 
The Social Concerns Festival is from 7 to 10 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. This is a second chance to get involved in student and community groups. More than 30 groups will be represented. Refreshments will be served. -The Observer 
Attention Juniors: Morris Inn room lottery sign"ups will be Wednesday, Jan. 20 from 2 to 4 p.m. and 6 to 8 p.m., and Friday, Jan. 22 from 2 to 4 p.m. in Room 307 in the LaFortune Student Center. Student ID is required. 
-The Observer 


Deaign Editor ........... , . . . . . . . . Matt Breslin Sports Copy Editor ........... Theresa Kelly Deaign Assiatant . . . . . .. . .. .. ... Pete LaFleur Accent Copy Editor .............. Lisa Young Typesetters ............... Becky Gunderman Accent Layout ............... Kathleen Moran ........................................... Daniel Cahill ND Day Editor ................... Jim Winkler New• Editor....................... Regis Coccia Typiat . .. .. . . . . . . . . .. .. .... .. . ... . . Lynsey Strand Copy Editor ...................... Matt Crowley .......................................... Wendy Burek 
Tile OMenw (USPS 599 2-4000) is publisbed Monday throuah Friday except durin& cum and vacation periods. Tile Olllener is publisbed by the students of the Univenity of NOire Dame and Saint Mary's Colleae. Sublaiplions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($2.5 per semester) by writilll Tile Olllerftto, P.O. Box Q, NOire Dame, Illdiana 465S6. 
Tile Olllln• il a member of Tile ~~~~~ "'-· All reproduction riahts are raerved. 

If you're one of those desperate students like me who must pay for their university expenses out of their own pocket, you should be down on your hands and knees thanking Congress for doing absolutely nothing about the economy. 
Perhaps the financial difficulties of today's students are little different from what they've always been. About 52 percent of the students on this campus, after all, don't even rely on loans. Universities like our own also invest heavily in scholarships, without which I wouldn't even be able to spout off at the mouth as I am about to. 
Unfortunately, however, there just isn't that much to go around as there used to before Reagan came to office. Consequently, if a uni­versity is to stay financially afloat at all, its top investment priority must be either a football team or, like the team we just met in Dallas, some friendly Southern referees. 
Joe or Jane Statistic therefore are simply not good money-making options, and thus they get the down-side of the trickle-down theory. The problem is particularly severe for those en­rolled in arts and letters, the whole purpose of which is to teach the absolute unimportance and utter emptiness of the money its students won't earn later on. 
Fortunately, however, just when Joe and Jane Statistic were asking the classic question, "Is there life after 22?" the federal government came to the rescue. 
Students are not the only ones going into debt. Like an answer to a prayer, the national eco­nomy has suddenly ceased to look very spec­tacular. The only bright spot has been that the trade deficit was $13.2 billion for November in­stead of the usual $15 billion or more. 
It would be a mistake to minimize this suc­cess, of course, which obviously speaks for not taxing the private sector into vassalage. Never­theless, there's still little doubt that this year's deficit is going to break records. At the same time, the $2 trillion debt continues to prove that what goes up can just keep going up, while the only people who say the stock market isn't in serious trouble are those who work for brokerage firms. 
Furthermore, America's heavy industries have managed to launch only guerilla-warfare counterattacks against foreign competitors, thanks mainly to a devalued dollar, to the point where Lee Iacocca has called the U.S. a "colony" of _Japan. More and more, America is becoming a land of legal consulting agencies and burger joints. 
The sweetest part of it all is that even though everybody realizes something must be done, Congress is doing absolutely nothing to reverse these trends. Take the recent anti-deficit budget accord. Congress's main motivation for the new 
Chris Julka 
As.sistant News Editor 


plan was to mitigate across-the-board savings that would have gone into effect automatically under Gramm-Rudman-Hollings and to porkbarrel even further. Its main accomplish­ment was to compensate for these diminished savings by proposing new taxes, all of which should effectively eliminate any hope we have of the private sector bailing us out of this mess. 
This can mean only one thing: inflation will leap higher than our wildest dreams. True, the dollar has stabilized recently. But this is simply the result of a kind of Marshall Plan in reverse from Europe and Japan, who are rapidly buying up dollars. But as long as Congress persists in believing that the problem is not enough money in the coffers rather than excessive expenditure on consumption, this can only be temporary. 
All of which means that student loans, debts, etc. will soon become little jokes. So why get upset? There's nothing a student can do anyway because this is still the older generation's mo­ment in history. But what a student can do is stay in school at all costs, go to grad school, get a car . . . and then laugh like hell when he pays his creditor back in absolutely worthless currency. 
In short, the fall of the economy is a godsend for the rest of us who already hopelessly in debt. We have nothing to lose by continuing to go into debt. It's just like going to Vegas, except now the odds are against the house--big time. 
Question: How do you reach over 
12,000 people daily? . ·· Answer: Buy Observer ad space. Call 239-6900. . · 
.9Lpp{ications are now being accepte for fJ'fie Observer's 
Editor-in-Chief, 1988-1989 
J!Lnyone wlio is interested in app{ying sfwuft{ su6mit a resume ana persona{statement ofno more tlian 5 pages to 1(f,vin 'Becf(g_r. J?Lppucations are due 6y 5 p.m., !Friday, January 22, 1988. 


Tuesday, January 19, 1988 The Observer page 3 
SMC Winter Carnival com1ng 1n February 
By KRISTINE KRUCZEK meeting Monday night, Tradi­that hot cocoa will be available News Staff tional Events Commissioner at Haggar College Center. Mary Carol Cahill said the Car­Cahill said she hopes the Car­
The Saint Mary's Winter Car­nival's activities may include nival will be "a bright spot in nival, a weeklong series of in­snow volleyball, softball and the dreary winter routine." door and outdoor activities, football. Tubing at Bendix Hashagen also announced will be held Feb.l-5, announced Woods will also be a highlight the Annual Keenan Revue 
Smith Hashagen, vice presi­of the Carnival. Party will be held Friday, Jan. dent for student affairs. Indoor events are still being 29, immediately after the 
At a Programming Board discussed, said Cahill, adding Revue. The party features a 
,, 
The Observer I Stacy St. Germaine 
Comparing notes 
Two Saint Mary's students get down to business in a few sodas and their class notes in one of the the Haggar College Center. Intending to get the jump college's more comfortable study areas. on their studies, these students are conferring over 
disc jockey and refreshments In other business, fialane will be provided. Young, student activities board 
Student body and class office commissioner, announced that elections will be held at the end regular office hours for the Stu­of February, Hashagen said. dent Activities Board will be Students interested in running posted as soon as possible. for office are required to attend Hashagen said that plans for one of two meetings and will another suitcase party like have two weeks to organize a "Big Apple Send-Off" are in the platform. making. 


Martin Luther King Day celebrated 
Associated Press Joseph Lowery, president of 
the Southern Christian Leader­

Arizona marchers called for ship Conference, urged the au­restoring the Martin Luther dience to remember the ideals King Day holiday, and that King stood for. Philadelphia's mayor set churchbells peeling with a tap "The holiday honors an indi­on the Liberty Bell as vidual, but also a struggle,'' he Americans paid homage Mon­said. day to King's still-unrealized Some 5,000 marchers braved dream of racial harmony. a downpour in Phoenix to rally 
In Atlanta, Coretta Scott at the state Capitol to make King and her children laid a Martin Luther King Day a state wreath at the slain civil rights holiday despite opposition from leader's tomb on the third na­that state's embattled gover­tional holiday in his honor. The nor, Evan Mecham. graveside ceremony was fol­lowed by the now-traditional "It is time to stop having the ecumenical service at rest of the country think of us Ebenezer Baptist Church, as the site of a three-ring where King served as co­circus," said Phoenix Mayor pastor. Terry Goddard. 
"The disease (of racism) 
. . . is still among us, and it "There is never enough rain has global implications," said in Arizona to quench the fire the church's pastor, Joseph that is in us," state House Roberts, before a gathering Minority Leader Art Hamilton that included Sen. Sam Nunn told the crowd. "We will not and Atlanta Mayor Andrew rest until we have been suc­Young. cessful." 



YourBasic 
Problem: 

Your BASIC 

Solution: 
The TI-74 BASICALC: The BASIC language programmable calculator from Texas Instruments. The mathematics and statistics cartridges are two offive optional application software available. 
use than any other programmable Stop by your bookstore and see calculator. both sides of the TI-74 BASICALC Your BASICALC specs: for yourself. Either way, it'll blow 
• 
8K RAM expandable to 16K RAM. 

• 
113 BASIC keyword set. 



you away TEXAS. 
• 
Optional software cartridges for chemical engineering, math, statistics and finance. 

• 
Optional PASCAL language cartridge. 

• 
Optional printer and cassette interface. INSTRUMENTS 


""Trademark of Texas Instruments Incorporated ©1988 Tl. 
The TI-74 BASICALC'" is a BASIC calculator that's also an advanced scientific calculator. In effect, it's two calculators in one. 
In its BASIC mode, you have direct, two-keystroke access to 41 BASIC commands, as well as lO user-definable keys which can make doing your coursework a basic snap. 

Switch to its calculator mode and you're armed with 70 scientific functions to help you easily solve those tough technical problems. 
And the large, color-coded keys, QWERTY keyboard and separate numeric keypad make it easier to 
The Observer Tuesday, January 19, 1988
page 4 

Fire destroys Alumni van; 


Senate 
continued from page 1 
voting privileges. In addition, it allows the SUB manager and committee chairman to be ap­pointed .before the election of the student body president and vice president. 
According to Blount, the amendment is designed to give the newly appointed SUB board manager a longer transition 

Mock 
continued from page 1 
vention) will be interesting," said Denise Wies, a mock con­vention organizer. 
The convention will be held in Stepan Center over a period of four days, she said. The opening session will consist of a welcoming speech and an in­vocation. A keynote speaker 

Campus 
continued from page 1 
said. Work is being done on the pipes under floors. 
Work on the North Dining Hall is scheduled for comple­tion in October. Students can expect service to remain at its current level throughout con­struction, said Dedrick, adding that Bill Hickey, the dining hall workers, and the students have been cooperative and patient which has allowed work to con­tinue on schedule without dis­rupting food service a great deal. 
time and a chance to begin planning the events for the next year. In the past, the SUB manager has had to plan events for the next year and execute programs that had been planned the year before by the former manager, Blount said. 
Paul Bierbusse, executive assistant to the Senate, ques­tioned the prudence of remov­ing a newly elected president and vice president's power to vote on the appointment of the SUB steering committee. "If 
will also be featured each eve­ning, probably a prominent Democrat, said Weis. Republi­can speakers will also be invited to speak. 
Platform discussions will take place on the second night, said Willis. On the third night the delegates will vote for the presidential nominee, he said. The vice-presidential nominee will be chosen on the final eve­ning, said Willis. 
someone (a presidential can­didate) runs on a pro­programming platform, they are given no say in the appoint­ment of the steering commit­tee," Bierbusse said. 
In other news, Vince Willis, chairman for the upcomming mock convention, asked Senate 

A driving force in theatre

members for support in plan­ning the activities. The mock A London taxicab speeds through the heart of the city's famous theatre convention will take place district. Students in the London program have the opportunity to traverse April 11-14 and will be a half down Charing Cross Road in such a taxi, one of the city's more popular
scale model of the Democratic 

forms of transportation for visitors. 
Convention. 



picture of 
By SHANNON McGOWAN 
Staff Reporter 
The football players were not the only ones to suffer a loss at the Cotton Bowl recently --the Notre Dame Alumni Associa­tion van was destroyed by fire returning from the game, said Alumni Representative Peter Pranica. 
The van caught fire on Inter­state 70 near Blackwater, Mis­souri, Pranica said. Although the exact cause of the fire is unknown, Pranica said it ap­pears that possibly a rod in the engine may have blown and ig­nited the gasoline, setting the van ablaze. 
The three passengers in the van escaped without injury, said Pranica. The passengers 

Rockne saved 
were Sean Lennon, son of Charles Lennon, director of the Alumni Association; Kevin Hughes, Lennon's friend; and Bill Marfinov, assistant weight training coach for the football team, he said. 
The fire totalled the van. Pranica estimated the cost of replacement at about $30,000 and also said all Notre Dame Alumni banners were lost. The St. Mary's Alumnae Banner was also destroyed in the fire, he said. In particular, the ban­ner with all of Notre Dame's bowl games and scores embroidered was lost, said Pranica. 
"The van was the signature of the Alumni Office. It was a dear element and an integral part of the serving of the Alumni Office across the na­tion," said Pranica, adding that it is a serious loss to the office. Even though the fire completely destroyed every­thing in the van, said Pranica, there was one item in the van that was left only slightly charred --a picture of Knute Rockne. 
Pranica said the Alumni As­sociation has not yet decided when or if it will replace the van. 
The van, a Chevy with a cus­tom fiberglass body, was pur­chased more than five years ago, Pranica said, adding that it contained a television, a VCR, and its own generator. The multi-colored van had logged over 110,000 miles, said Pranica. 
While a number of other col­leges have mock conventions, Notre Dame's convention is both the oldest and the largest, he said. It was first organized by the late Paul Bartholomew, professor emeritus of political science. 
The budget for the conven­tion is 10,000 dollars. Each year money is set aside from each class to fund the convention, said Willis. 



retreat 
Fr. .Ja.i!Jes .burtci1aell, C.S.C 
· directed by 
January 29-31 (noon) 
when 
Crowe's House, J\1ichigan 
where 
Can1pus Ministry -----co-n"7'""ta--:ct----(Z\MPUS
MINISTRY

January 22, 1988 
_______....:.--,-___,..,.,....-----Unlvenl!y of No~e Gcme 

rlcddlinl..' Notre Dome.~~ 46556 
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
TRANSITION INTO THE SOPHOMORE YEAR PART I AN INfORMATIONAL PROGRAM 
by 
EMIL T. HOFMAN DEAN OF THE FRESHMAN YEAR OF STUDIES 
in the ENGINEERING (CUSHING) AUDITORIUM 
TUESDAY, JANUARY 19 6:30 PM, 8:00 PM WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20 6:30PM, 8:00PM 
(All four programs will be the same. Every freshman should plan to attend one.) 



FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 



_T~ue~s~d~ay~·~J~an~u~a~~~19~,_1_9~88 
....... ~..Ntr 
Going for the green 
Comruter Science & MIS Students 


SHARE THE INSPIRATION. 
U 
he rush of adrenaline. If you're a highly-motivated The surge of excite­person, an independent worker, ment. The flash of and an innovative thinker, you inspiration. Familiar have the right chemistry for feelings to talented IS profession-ACCENT. als at The Travelers. And to the Now make the right move. promising graduates who'll join To The Travelers' ACCENT pro­us this year. gram. Where you'll find varied You've discovered these and valuable learning experiences. feelings in your academic wo1 k. A supportive human environment Recognized them in the elegance a!ld a sophisticated technical one. of advanced technology. And now And where you'll find plenty of you can share in them at The opportunities to help move yuu Travelers, where the support is ahead. stronger, the environment more You'll also receive a com­sophisticated and the applications petitive salary, complete benefits 
more challenging. 
As a distinguished Computer Science or MIS graduate, you now have a difficult decision to make about your future. That's why we created ACCENT. Afast-paced, competitive program. Offering tech­nical and management training through a diverse range of assignments leading to key professional positions. 
All in one of the most advanced IS environ­ments in the financial services industry-including the largest IMS shop, 141BM mainframes and a 37,000 terminal SNA network. 
But our commitment to staying on the cutting edge of IS technology doesn't stop there. We've recently installed over 20,000 IBM PCs, integrated the latest 4th generation languages, and we're develop­ing our future leaders with~ACCENT. 
If you have a degree in computer science, MIS or a related discipline, high academic achievement, exposure to hardware and software, and some pro­gramming experienc~, you have the right credentials for ACCENT. 
The Travelers Companies, Hartford, Connecticut 06183. 

~~~-­
__________________________________~T~h~e~O~b~s~e~N~e~r________________________________________________~p~a~g~e~~


't , 
U.S. Astronauts worry about flaws in rocket booster of space shuttle 
took advantage of an October travel break and went to neighboring Ireland with the intention of going to see the Irish capital, Dublin. 
and even an IBM PC AT to take home with you. Plus generous relocation assistance to our Hartford, Connecticut home office. 
So, if you're a bright and talented computer­oriented major, join The Travelers. Where the accent is on you and the inspiration shared by all. 
Meet us on Thursday, January 21st for a brief presentation on the ACCENT program. Con­tact your Career/Placement office for details. Or, find out more about signing up for The Travelers' interview schedule. Recruiters will be on campus Monday, February 22nd. Or, send your resume to: Gail L'Heureux, The Travelers Companies, 30-CR, CN87, One Tower Square, Hartford, CT 06183-7060. 

TheTravelersj · 
You're better off under the Umbrella~\! 
An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Associated Press 
SPACE CENTER, Houston ­Senior astronauts are worried about flaws found in a solid rocket booster tested last month and are pushing this week for an additional manda­tory full-scale test-firing before the space shuttle is cleared to fly again. 
A spokesman for Morton Thiokol Inc., manufacturer of the rocket engines, confirmed Monday that "discussions are under way" about adding an­other mandatory test-firing of the rocket, but he said a deci­sion has not been made. 
Daniel Brandenstein, chief of the astronaut office at the Johnson Space Center, said in an interview Friday that he and others in his office feel that the Dec. 23 full-scale rocket firing, during which part of the rocket nozzle assembly came apart, shows that more testing is needed to assure safety. 
"We are proposing that we do three more (mandatory) tests, but that is still in review," Brandenstein said. "They were planning two, but with the (launch date) slip and the failure, putting a third in there is possible." 
The National Aeronautics and Space Administration planned four full-scale rocket firings to verify a new design for the solid-fueled booster. One test, called DM8, was con­ducted in August and was suc­cessful. It was followed the Dec. 23 test, called DM9, in which a new nozzle boot ring design was used. Engineers found after the test that the boot ring had come apart. 
Officials originally called for the shuttle to be cleared for launch after the four tests. Ad­ditional tests were scheduled, but they were to have no effect on the resumption of flight. 
Navy Rear Adm. Richard Truly, a former astronaut who heads the shuttle program, an­nounced earlier this month that the new boot ring that failed on DM9 would be replaced with the boot ring that worked on DM8. He said it then would be tested twice more to certify it for flight. 
But Brandenstein said he doesn't think that's good enough. 
"The DM9 outer boot ring test was not a success, so that should not count as one of our 'get ready to fly' tests on the nozzle," he said. "My feeling is that we ought to redo the nozzle part of that" and test it three full times again before certifying it for flight. 

The space shuttle Challenger accident, which killed seven astronauts on Jan. 28, 1986, was blamed on a flawed joint in the side of the solid rocket booster. The side joints have been redesigned, along with parts of the solid rocket booster nozzle. 
The DM8 test was the first full-scale firing of the new design. The DM9 test included the new joint design and added the new boot ring. 
Brandenstein said the joint design seemed to work fine on DM9 and that members of the astronaut corps are content with the "fix" of the joints. But he said the nozzle boot ring design is still a question that should be resolved with three full tests. 
John Thomas, chief of the shuttle rocket redesign team, said both full-scale tests have shown that the flaw that destroyed Challenger has been corrected. 
The new joint design includes the addition of a third 0-ring, a flange to strengthen the metal joint and a new arrange­ment of insulation to keep hot rocket gases from reaching the joint. 
Thomas said the insulation worked so well in the test firing that the new 0-ring design is still unproven. 
As a result, NASA has pro­posed that a flaw be intention­ally introduced into the joint for a test-firing in March. This would put hot gas against the 0-rings and verify their design. But the Orlando (Fla.) Sentinel reported Sunday that Morton Thiokol is opposed to the plan. 


page 6 The Observer Tuesday, January 19, 1988 


The Observer I Susy Hernandez 

Breaking the ice 
A fountain in front of the Haggar College Center a shower of water,and in all likelihood, more ice to forces its way through the surrounding ice to create contend with. 
Survey says Hoosiers don't mind their Indiana nickname 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Most In­diana residents don't mind being called Hoosiers, accor­ding to a survey. 
The results of the survey, conducted in late 1985, are just now being released by Hoosier Celebration '88, a non-profit corporation preparing for a statewide homecoming event that will include celebrations in 300 communities. 
Of the 800 people surveyed, 40 percent said they liked being 
College president named chancellor 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-University of Indianapolis President Gene Sease has been named to the newly created position of chan­cellor, university officials an­nounced Monday. 
Zane Todd, chairman of the university's board of trustees, said the position was created to ensure Sease's continued in­volvement in unversity leader­ship. 
Sease, 57, who has served as president since 1968, had re­quested that the trustees begin a search to select his successor. He will become chancellor once that successor is named. 
"While we will honor Sease's request, we still wish to keep his strong involvement in the university's future and partic­ularly in the implementation of the institution's capital fund outreach," Todd said in a prepared release. 
As chancellor, Sease will direct the university's $25 mil­lion fund-raising campaign, "Focus on the Future." The campaign, which will run called Hoosiers, 47.said it didn't ham Lincoln, followed by poet make much difference and the James Whitcomb Riley, Ben­remainder either didn't like it jamin and William Henry Har­or had no opinion. rison and explorers Meriwet­
The poll also showed 53 per­her Lewis and William Clark, cent use the term "Hoosier" oc­who tied with former Gov. Otis casionally. Bowen, who is now U.S. Health 
"I think in a majority of and Human Services Secre­cases, it (the word Hoosier) in­tary. vokes a warm feeling, a good feeling," said John Hammond, Orr finished after Indiana an aide to Gov. Robert Orr and University basketball Coach president of Hoosier Bob Knight and before Celebraton '88. Seymour native John Cougar 
The poll also showed that the Mellencamp, a top recording best-known Hoosier is Abra-star. 

through 1990, is to include con­structing a new $12.5 million media and arts center and in­creasing endowment funds to be used primarily for scholar­
ships and for strengthening academic programs. 
eiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII, QaEsT1o N s lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~
During Sease's tenure, the 
enrollment of the university, formerly Indiana Central Uni­versity, has nearly doubled to about 3,500 graduate and un­dergraduate students and more than 4,000 students in con­tinuing education courses. The university's annual budget also has increased from $1.7 million ;in 1968 to $18.4 million, and the endowment has grown from $700,000 to $16 million. 
~ 

"Our financial success 
~ 

seems all the more remarkable when you consider that no 
Ii

federal funds have been in­vested in any of our facilities or programs, and that the only money owed on any existing buildings is for a dormitory 
I

whose revenue covers its 

Utah family waits for "resurrection" 
Associated Press 
MARION, utah-More than 150 officers wearing fatigues and packing automatic weap­ons ringed the compound of a slain rebel polygamist Monday as 14 relatives, including a suspect in a church bombing, holed up for a third day await­ing his "resurrection." 
Relatives and authorities said Addam Swapp and 13 fam­ily members, including six children, were armed as they waited in a log house belonging to Vickie Singer. She was one of two widows left by John Singer when he was gunned down by police nine years ago Monday. 
Officers surrounded the 20­acre homestead, in a moun­tainous ranching area 60 miles northeast of Salt Lake City, early Saturday after an explo­sion ripped through the Mor­mon church's Marion Stake Center a half-mile away, causing an estimated $1 million damage. 
"We just want to talk to them as possible suspects in this case," said FBI special Agent Cal Clegg. "The reason we don't walk away is that there is a fear in the community, and if they indeed did this, then their concerns are legitimate." 
Police negotiators talked by telephone with Swapp on Sat­urday night, but were unable to make further contact. 
Doug Bodrero, deputy com­missioner of the Utah Depart­ment of Public Safety, said Swapp and Vickie Singer had told Roger Bates, a son-in-law of Singer's who visited the cabin Sunday night, that they planned a ceremony Monday to remember Singer's death. 
"That's why until that hour is passed, we are not going to move around," Bodrero said. "Our intent is to let them have their family get-together and eventually try to set up com­munications with them." 
Public Safety Director John Nielsen, addressing the Utah Senate as part of a Martin Lut­her King Day observance, said, "We are prepared to stay there as long as necessary to bring this to a peaceful conclusion." 
Singer, who was with the Hit­ler Youth in pre-World War II Germany, was gunned down at the cabin on Jan. 18, 1979, by police seeking to arrest him for refusing to send his children to public school. 
Authorities, who had sur­rounded the compound for 18 days, said Singer had pointed a pistol at them. Vickie Singer denied that. 
¥ 

February 19-21 $160 package cost includes: 
-Meals -Transportation ~ Cardinal Coaches . -Lodgin~ (Four to a room, indoor and outdoor heated pools) -One free ski lesson for beginners / -Lift tickets ""­. -(Hill has 20 runs including 8 beginner · 'I j/ slopes and a vertical drop) "f{. 
Sign-ups begin Thursday, January 14 and will continue through Wednesday, January 20. 
· Sign-up between 2:00 and 4:00 in the freshman class office, 2nd floor LaFortune. the entire balance is due 
at the time you sign-up. Get your name and $$$ in quick. lfJJJ Cut off is set at 80 students. 

or PROBLEMS " concerning JPW ? 'l ! 



costs," said Todd. "There are i .. 1\.\0 ~ . r~e N0~ V\.eu ,.,'(\0. ~re\ '\ = 
very few campuses anywhere ='I"' ~'-' 0 c..C'' v nO\,;that can make such a claim." Luummmmnm•mmmnmmmmmmmnmlmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMinmnmnmmmnmnmmmnmnmnnln.limmnmuumnmnmmn~ 
'l Stop by JPW office hours: 7 -8 pm "· Monday through Thursday 307 LaFortune Student Center 
-a.~e 1\., 1\.c:, ~.§''(\~' 
? i 
I 
? Ii 
• .~'o1 


--------, 
Tuesday, January 19, 1988 The Observer page 7 
Research illustrates sex differences between men, women through fat cells 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -Newly dis­covered differences in the fat cells of men and women may help explain why men often have pot bellies while women are more likely to have big hips and thighs, a researcher said Monday. 
Studies conducted at Rocke­feller University in New York found differences between the sexes in both the makeup and number of these cells. 
They show that typically, wo­men have more fat cells than men do in their thighs, hips and bottoms. But the fat cells in men's bellies are more likely than women's to accumulate fat. 
Learning how to tinker with the biological controls that rule how fat cells take in and give up their cargo could open new ways for making people slim and healthy. 
The latest research, con­ducted by Dr. Rudolph Leibel, was presented at a meeting of the American Heart Associa­tion. 
According to one estimate, 34 million American adults are overweight, and a third of those are severely obese. Although too much fat is unhealthy, studies have shown that where the flab rests on the body is at 

The Observer 

, ...............................................................................................'Y:
1Neighborhood Study ~ 
and wish her a happy one. By lhe way Laura,we do expect to see you danc•ng 
on pool tables lonight.



I Help Program 1ll
I wants you to tutor I 
~ WHQ: little kids in South ~ ~ Bend ~IWHEN: 1 hour twice a week ~ ~ I ~ sign-UQS: ~ 
ITuesday 1119111 at the esc I ~ Festival 7-10 pm ~ 
1Wednesday 1120 at North & ~ & 'South Dining I
IThursda 1'21 Halls
i 
during lunch I and dinner at SMC I dining halls I
IGeneral Meeting for all I I sign ups I 
I ~ Sunday, January 24th I ~ I 6 pm I!esc multipurpose room i 
least as important as how much 
excess poundage is carried. 

In general, pot bellies are as­
sociated with a higher risk of 
heart disease and diabetes. Ex­
tra weight down lower on the 
body is not linked with these 
diseases. 

Experts believe this may be 
one reason why men, who are 
often shaped like apples, have 
a high risk of heart attacks, 
while women, who frequently 
are shaped like pears, have far 
less risk. 

Two factors control the amount of body fat -the total number of fat cells and the size of these cells. Although the human body has about 30 bil­lion fat cells, they are not evenly distributed. 
The number and location of fat cells is probably set early in life and cannot be lowered. People lose weight by making their fat cells skinnier. 
"Control of the size of fat cells is extremely complex," said Liebel. "These are not just little bags of oil." 
He and colleagues have shown that the size of fat cells is controlled in part by molecules on the surface of the cells that are called alpha and beta receptors. Alpha recep­tors stimulate the cells to take in and store fat, while beta receptors prompt cells to get rid of fat. 
Calm before the storm 
Waiting for class to begin in Madeleva Hall, these students take advantage of their free time by having a sip of a soft drink and checking out the latest issue 

Handicapped mom fights for kids 
Associated Press Santa Clara County welfare 
officials say Callo, who lives on 
SAN JOSE, Calif. -A $533 a month from Social Se­wheelchair-bound cerebral curity, is unable to care for the palsy patient who has had two children and can't afford to pay babies taken from her by wel­for help. fare officials said Monday she'll fight in court to get back The newborn, Jesse Robert, her children "if it's the last was placed with the same thing I do before I die." foster family caring for 10­
Tiffany Callo gave birth to month-old Antonio David. Callo her second healthy son Friday has not been told where the but lost custody of him the next family lives but she has been day, just as she lost custody of allowed to visit Antonio for an her first son shortly after his hour on Saturdays at a welfare birth last March. office. 
~~~~~·:~·~~~:~i.~~~~~~==:·~~;~··~:·:·_~p II 

I 
~ 
1 
I I 
South Padre for 



SEring Break 
March 11-20 
cost $346 
hotel accomodations at the luxurious Hilton Resort 
ansportation by Motorcoach (trip must include 
transportation) 
free pool deck parties, etc. 
sign-ups held 
Tuesday, January 26 and Wednesday, January 27 
6:00 pm -9:00 pm at the Information Desk first floor LaFortune 
$100 deposit required at that time no lines before 5:00 pm 
Sponsored by SUB 
Call Jim 2:39-7757 
The Observer I Helenl Korwek 

of The Observer. Several Notre Dame students join the students of Saint Mary's for a variety of classes, with theology being one of the most popular choices. 
"It's so unfair, it isn't right," Callo said tearfully. "I love the children. The children are my pride and my joy and my life and I feel like they're taking a part of my life away." 
She said she's convinced she can care adequately for her children, although she knows she would need help. 
"I have a question about a few things, like bathing them and lifting them," she said. "That could be dangerous for the babies." 
1..................................................................................................1 




Viewpoint
page 8 Tuesday, January 19, 1988 
Reaganomics spelling disaster for poor 
A Dec. 1 column of ours appeared in The Observer which spoke ill of our cur­rent president and his policies, painting him as the confused old man that he is. We spoke of a man who, with fervent­-nearly messianic--drive, pursued ideologies which have led to serious, if not irreparable, damage to the eco­nomy and citizens of the United States. This column was written in a spirit con­sistent with the primary aim of the Col­lege Democrats of Notre Dame: name­ly, we seek to encourage and promote intelligent debate on the pressing poli­tical issues of our time. Indeed, we ex­pected that responses would be forthcoming that might seriously challenge the positions and arguments advanced in our article. 
Alas, we were terribly disappointed. 
Karl Kronenberger Michael Schadek Daniel Sophy 
guest column 

After screening The Observer for some time following the printing of our piece, all that we could find in response was an amusing but pitiful letter to the editor written by two of our contem­poraries. They made the predictalbe argument, as confused and impres­sionable young conservative ideologues are wont to do, that the Carter years were living hell for all good Americans. We found this response particularly en­tertaining as we had joked about it as being a "typical" response. Much to our chagrin, however, it turned out that it was the lone cry against our "liberal" onslaught. 
In the spirit of civic duty, we feel it is important to address some specific issues and back up our earlier argu­ments with some not unfrightening evidence to the stagnation and decay which is now rampant in American so­ciety. 
Our fearless leader, President Reagan, seemingly consistent with his supply-side ideology, has directed tax cuts toward the rich and toward big business on the theory that increased investment by them would stimulate the economy and result in a sunny day for all of America. Now, this sounds like a potentially wonderful idea, but it did not (and we would argue could not) work. The rate of savings as a percentage of disposable income after taxes has decreased by more than 50% 
Doonesbury 
5AL, LeTMe &XPLAIN WHY I 
ASI<&P YOUIN. 7H& a:mPANY 15 ABOl/7 70 &M8ARI:..ON A N&«J V&NTIJR£-~. «<HOOP&8 
BOUT!Ql/&5 / 
\ 

during Reagan's America. Investment in 1986 dollars in new factories and ma­chinery is the same as it was in the interval between 1973 and 1980 ($1,156.00 per worker per annum be­tween 1981 and 1985). Public debt has more than doubled and combined public and private debt total ,almost $5 trillion. 
But wait, there's more. 
Reagan supporters have asked this question a lot: Are you better off now than you were during the previous ad­ministration? Alas, for the majority of Americans the answer is actually in the negative. The rich are better off, it is true, or at least there are more of them, as evidenced in part by the fact that the number of millionaires and bil­lionaires has doubled since 1980. At the same time, though, the bottom two fifths of families secured only 15.4 per cent of aggregate national income in 1986, the lowest percentage since such statistics were first recorded by the government in 1947. Families making less than $24,000 per year (the bottom 40 per cent of income earners) ab­sorbed $918 in decreased annual earn­ings between 1979 and 1986. Those making less than $35,000 experienced a loss of $228 since 1979. Those making more than $35,000, on the other hand, earned $2,755 more in 1986 than in 1979 (Economics majors rest assured: these figures have been ·adjusted for infla­tion). The harsh reality in America today is that the rich are getting richer as the poor get poorer. ' 
But it doesn't even stop at that. Many naive Reagan supporters hail his "ac­complishment" of allegedly bringing many new jobs into the market. What they fail to realize in their pitiful ignor­ance is that the majority of these new job openings paid $7,000 per year of less, an amount which is $3,900 below the national poverty level. Unemploy­ment has fallen, it is true, but now all we have is a new label for the poor: the "working poor." All too often their lot is not improved at all, but they can sup­posedly be ignored now that they have "jobs." Another amazing feat of ignor­ance and stupidity is the claim made by some that there are no hungry or homeless in America. Would that it be the case. It isn't. 
All in all, there is much evidence to suggest that Ronald Reagan's "morn­ing in America" is merely a misin­terpreted twilight for much of what is 
AS ACTING C&.Q, rM ASKING YOIJ 70 H&Af) UP lH/5 NE/A/ l/N/?&R.TAI</N6. I GUARANT&& YOU 7H~ FIJU. 5/JPPORT OF TH&80ARP.' tulllfT [)() ""-... 
YaJ5AY~ 

IJM... a/ITH AU f)(Jf3 R£5P/3CT, MA:4M,IM NOT5l/F&BOU­
7/Ql/&5 ARE 7H~ WAY 70 GO 70 &XPANP !<&TAft 5AJ.E5, 
v.v-=/ OH? HOfAJ at:JIJ/...1/ YOU GO? 
I 

truly great in our country. We are in a serious fix. Anyone who has a tempta­tion to downplay the statistics con­tained herein should first pay a visit to a welfare agency or a homeless shelter. Believe us, folks, the problem is out 
P.O. Box Q 
More protection for OC students 
Dear Editor: 

My daughter and her roommate, both students at the University of Notre Dame, were among those listed in a recent Observer article detailing the numerous break-ins, robberies and bur­glaries occuring in off-campus housing in November 1987. A second break-in was attempted in the other half of their side by side several weeks later, but the intruder was surprised when the student arrived home unexpectedly. The burglar escaped out of the back door as the student entered the front. The first break-in resulted in the loss of a T.V. set, two leather coats, and a house that had been totally ransacked. In both instances, the homes were locked and lights were left on due to the early darkness. 
Although it appears that the South Bend police are readily available to break up Notre Dame off-campus par­ties, there seems to be a lack of consis­tent patrolling effort in areas where Notre Dame students reside. This lack of police presence, which compromises 

Garry Trudeau 
Quote of the Day 
"Every fragment of song holds a mirror to a past moment for someone." 
Fanny Cradock 
700 [)()WN­
'3CAL£. IM 51/CXJT/NG FOR 
at..EBRJTY 
APP&ARANC£5. 
\ 

there; much suffering has taken place in order that the affluent may play. 
Karl Kronenberger, Michael Schadek, and Daniel M. Sophy are the Co-leaders of the College Democrats of Notre Dame. 
our children's well-being and safety, is alarming. The indifference from police towards students reporting suspicious activities in neighboring houses bor­ders on negligence. In the case of my daughter, she has reported "suspicious activity" to the police regarding the home located directly behind her house. Numerous "visitors" come and go day and night. This activity coupled with the multiple break-ins at her home would indicate that the police should, at the very least, patrol this area, and at best should make a concerted effort to watch the cars and occupants who filter in and out of this neighboring house. 
These students feel threatened, vio­lated and scared. They will move as soon as possible. But the question be­comes -will their new location afford them any more protection than their present location given the lack of police presence in the neighborhood and the lack of apparent concern by the Uni­versity for the safety of these students who live off-campus? 
/A/ALL 
MACHIN&$. 
I 

Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The News is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the school community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged. 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ..................................... Kevin Becker Business Manager ............................. John Oxrider Managing Editor ............................ Mark Pankowski Advertising Design Manager ................ Molly Killen News Editor ....................................Chris Bednarski Advertising Manager ............................ Steve Clark News Editor .............................................. Jim Riley Production Manager ...................... Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Editor .................................. Chris Murphy Projects Manager ......................... Mark Mclaughlin Sports Editor .................................. Dennis Corrigan Systems Manager ............................ Shawn Sexton Accent Editor .............................. Michael Naughton Controller ........................................ Tracy Schindele 
Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Sandy Cerimele Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Laura Stanton Photo Editor ............................................ Jim Carroll 
Founded November 3, 1966 



Accent
Tuesday, January 19, 1988 
page 9 

Barbershop 'corrals' ND spirit 
DAN STRUTZEL accent writer 
Jt Is a fundamental truth 
that some of the most won­derful and interesting people are In some of the most un­suspecting places. 
One of these unsuspecting places Is a barbershop located on 1523 Llncolnway West, right here In South Bend. It's a little shop sandwiched In betweeen Rosie's Donuts and an al­leyway. The huge, colorful sign on the roof reads "Vito's Hair Corral." 
When VIto's customers walk through the doorway they are greeted by three smiling faces. Lynne Kepner, a short woman of about 5'2", laughs hysteri­cally with one of VIto's "regulars", while providing the final touches on his freshly cut hair. Harry Brummett, who Is done with his shift for the day, decides to stay around and chat with the people In the shop for awhile. He's a middle­aged man with gray hair, about six-feet tall. 
Finally, there Is Tony Rulli, owner of the shop, who Imme­diately greets anyone who walks In the door. Rulli Is a short and heavy-set man, wearing a plain red button­down shirt and holding an electric razor In his left hand. His right hand Is always free for greeting customers. 
Vito's atmosphere gives one the feeling of being back home In a small town barbershop. The walls are covered with chipped paneling, two gold­rimmed mirrors, framed bar­ber's licenses and plaques and Notre Dame banners. There Is a huge color television, shelves stacked full of everything from a 1980 Newsweek to old Splderman comics. 
"I love my shop," said Rulli, "there's never a dull moment." 
"Yeah, we've been open since 1927," explained Rulli, "My fa­ther VIto started the place. I began In 1945 and took the place over In 1972." 
The atmosphere seems time­less. If a Notre Dame graduate were to return to VIto's 20 years after graduation on a footba~l weekend, the comfort­able experience would be quite the same. 
It is obvious from the various Notre Dame banners, an autographed picture of Lou Holtz and other sports parap­hernalia that Rulli is an avid Notre Dame fan. One of his most interesting displays has a large circle of old ND banners and its 1987 football opponents surrounding a photo of Moose Krause. 
"Moose has been getting his hair cut here for eight years," said Rulli. "Why, alot of Darners and Notre Dame fans come in here. Tom Freeman gets his hair cut here, Chuck Maggoli from the 1944 team has gotten his hair cut here, and I also get alot of ROTC guys." 
"''m what you ND students call a subway alumnus," Rulli 

ing." 
"Are you kidding?" inter­rupted Kepner, "Tony was born with clippers in his hand." 
At this, everyone in the shop chuckled together. Yet, even after the laughter stopped, Rulli continued to smile, merely ab­sorbing the unique atmosphere around him. For him, a barber­shop with red vinyl seats, chipped paneling and gold rimmed mirrors is incomplete without the special comraderie of the people who come to get their hair cut. 
"I love talking to people," Rulli said. "I love people. I meet people from every race, social class and creed. We've got a bit of everything here. Young children are brought here for their first haircuts. We go from children to senior 

continued. "I love Notre Dame. I started following the teams back in 1936. I bought a book and read about Knute Rockne; I was eight years old at the time. I really got into lt. But even more than the sports, I just love the ND students who come In here." 
"He's such an ND fan," said Brummett. " I told him to quit cutting hair and go into coach-citizens. We've got Harry and Lynne, too. They're great!" 

The more time one spends in Vito's the easier it is to under­stand why so many Notre Dame students and graduates frequent Vito's Hair Corral. The three smiling faces, the genuine comraderie and Notre Dame displays are the essential ingredients of a truly unique and vibrant atmosphere. 
esc 'opens house' today 
COLLEEN CRONIN accent writer 
Many students know the Cen­
ter for Social Concerns just as that fiat little building near the library and Breen-Phllllps. Today though, all students will have a chance to get to know the center a little better at the Social Concerns Festival. 
From 7 p.m. to 10 p.m., the Festival will host social concern organizations from the commu­nity and on-campus. In all, nearly 30 different groups will be represented, ranging from the Logan Center to Amnesty International. 
"This Is a good opportunity to come by and see the center 
and the groups involved," says Dan Keusal, one of the festival coordinators. 
The festival will be run much like the SUB Activities Night last semester, where students can walk around and sign up with groups that interest them. A representative from each group will be there, as well as one or two current members to meet and talk with. The only differ­ence between the festival and Activities Night, says Keusal, is that It will be a more festival-like and fun atmosphere. 
In the past the festival has gone over very well, and the attending organizations have gone home with many new recruits. This is the CSC's way of helping out the groups that work with the center. It also gives students a chance to be Involved with groups they may never have heard of otherwise. 

"Many students are unaware of the other things to get in­volved in," says Keusal. 
Preceding the festival will be an Open House for the CSC, which Is celebrating its fifth anniversary. From 4 p.m. to 7 p.m., a free light dinner will be served, and students can mill around the center, getting to know the esc itself and the people involved. That unknown fiat little building somewhere near North Quad could prove to be very Interesting. 


A world of have-nots 
SHANE O'FLAHER1Y accent writer 
The following is the first of a series of reflections by Notre Dame students who participated in the esc· Urban Plunge during the Christmas Break. 
y au have probably had this experience: you are empty­
ing your garbage into the trash bins behind your hall or apartment. As you walk away you notice out of the corner of your eye a dirty-looking older man shuffling up to the container with a stainless-steel shopping cart. He reaches into the bin and begins to sort through your refuse for his needs. Your garbage bags provide clothing for the man, and the cash from your aluminum cans can add up to a simple meal. 
After spending part of my Christmas break on the Urban Plunge program offered by Notre Dame, I was struck by the glaring disparity between the rich and the poor, the have and the have-nots. For Bill, a mentally retarded, 28­year-old man, the most mundane task of setting a table for dinner is an impossibility. Growing up in a well­structured family seems to be taken for granted by most of us. Yet. physical and mental abuse is an everyday thing for the children I encountered at a school. A simple comment about the type of food at the dining hall would never enter your mind, if this were the only meal you and your family would have that day. The disparity that exists between these two lifestyles is so tremendous that most of us can­not even begin to appreciate it. 
The first day of the Urban Plunge program began with a trip to a private grammar school in East Oakland. Our group of nine was divided into the various classrooms. Because of a lack of funding, first and second grade were combined as were all of the grades. I was put in the seventh and eighth grade classroom by myself. Looking around the room, I could not help but notice how Intently these children were paying attention. Their desire to learn was intense. As recess approached, you could see the smiles on their faces grow, as an exhausting game of keep-away was in store for me. Subsequently, I learned, and found it quite hard to believe, that one of the kids I lost the ball to had been severely beaten by his father just three weeks ago. Another little girl was raped at the age of 
10. How did a teacher find out about this girl's incident? Just a harmless hand on her shoulder, touched off a nightmarish scream from the little girl as flashbacks ensued. 
Our next stop took us to the Hospitality House in San Francisco. The name of the house adds some class to this run-down house, as answering the telephone, "Homeless shelter, can 1 help you?" does not seem appropriate. The shelter was divided into two sections. One was a large room which could accomodate 80 occupants side-by-side on matresses used to perform gymnastics. When we ar­rived, about 11:30 a.m., about 15 people were huddled together on the floor. The other section was strictly devoted to art, where these homeless people could ex­press themselves in a way society can understand. Anger was the most evident emotion, as dark colors brought out conditions of desolation and isolation. 
From there, we entered "Over 21", a school for mentally handicapped adults. The experience was quite unique. My emotions were confused, as I felt like laughing and crying at the same time. In one corner there was a man bashing his hand against his head while grunting loudly. Another man sat motionless in his wheelchair; three years ago a swimming pool accident had changed him from a healthy young carpenter into a man who had lost all of his motor skills. In the background was the distinct noise of one man continuously grinding his jaws together. Frightening, yesl Rewarding, more sol Those adults seemed so content. The notion of their being different from us Is only evident in our minds. We were their friends, not their babysltters. Leaving there, I did not feel as sorry for them as one might expect; rather, I felt extremely happy because of the tremendous joy they exhibited all day. 
The next day we walked through the run-down tenderloin district in San Francisco. On our walk I spotted a man dressed in bright red clothing, dancing on the walls of a fountain. It was hard not to laugh. Yet, just two hours later, I saw the same man, now more subdued, in line for food at Saint Anthony's soup kitchen. The meal we served was adequate, but far from substantial. The sight of men and women taking out plastic bowls to store extra food for their kids was a disturbing one. Survival was the only thing on their minds. 
How do these people differ from us? It all comes down to a fulfillment of needs. They need a home to live In, we have one. They need a stable working environment. we are born into one. They need more governmental assistance, while we have adequate support. Money Is only part of the answer, our compassion and support are needed as well. 
page 10 The Observer Tuesday, January 19, 1988 

Sports Briefs 
A tennis clinic featuring Coach Bayliss and the men's tennis team will be held tonight from 7:15-8:30 p.m. at the Eck Pavillion. The clinic is free of charge and open to any inter­ested students, faculty, staff and families. Bring your own racket. -The Observer 
The women's softball team will have its first practice today at 5:30p.m. at the Loftus Center. Anyone interested in trying out for the team should attend and bring insurance forms along. If you are unable to come, call Barb at 4290 or Terri at 1260. -The Observer 
The martial arts institute beginner's class will begin workouts starting Thursday, Jan. 21 and Sunday, Jan. 24. Those interested in joining contact Bill or Drew at 288-4319. No ex­perience necessary. -The Observer 
SMC intramural basketball entry forms are now available at Angela Athletic Facility. The forms for the five-on-five league are due Monday, Jan. 25. -The Observer 
_ 

The water polo team will have a meeting tonight at 7 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. New members are welcome. Contact Tom Cashman (234-6727) or Marty Walls (288-8732) if you can't attend. -The Observer 
The EquestrianClubwill hold a meeting for all old and any interested new members tonight at 8 p.m. in room 222 of the Library. Bring your class schedule. For more informa­tion, call Theresa (2805). -The Observer 
Two new basketball courts are now available in the JACC. They are located by the ice arena and will be available on a first-come, first-served basis during regular JACC hours. -The Observer 
Any freshman interested in becoming a student manager should attend an organiza­tional meeting Monday, Jan. 25, at 7:30p.m. in the JACC auditorium. Call the managers' office at 239-6482 after 2:30p.m. weekdays if you have any questions. -The Observer 
Varsity women's rowers who are going to participate in the spring season must attend a practice tonight at 8:30 p.m. by the JACC track or they will not be placed on the final roster. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball XVII Commis­sioner applications can be picked up at the secretaries desk on the second floor LaFortune. Any sophomore interested in the position should turn in an application by Tuesday, January 26. Interviews will be conducted from January 27­
29. Any questions, call Steve Wenc at 271-0573. 
-The Observer 
Referees are needed for SMC intramural basketball. Call 284-5548 for more information. 
-The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. 
-The Observer 
•

Favorites w1n in Open 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia­Three-time champion Martina Navratilova struggled past Helena Sukova 6-4, 7-6 Tuesday to advance to the women's singles semifinals of the Australian Open Tennis Cham­pionships. 
The No.2 seed needed almost 75 minutes to end the challenge of the sixth-seeded Sukova. The 31-year-old left-bander, who lives in Fort Worth, Texas, is seeking to reach her 12th con­secutive Grand Slam final. 
Earlier, Ivan Lend! powered his way into the semifinals by crushing the last surviving American in the men's singles, Todd Witsken, 6-2, 6-1, 7-6. 

In the semifinals, Lendl will face either Wimbledon cham­pion Pat Cash of Australia or Michiel Schapers of The Net­herlands, who played later Tuesday. 
Cash, seeded fourth in the year's first Grand Slam tourn­ament, defeated Lendl in the 1987 Wimbledon final. . 
"I just hope history doesn't repeat itself," said Lend!, who lost to Cash in the semifinals of last year's Australian Open. 
Navratilova will meet the winner of Tuesday's second wo­men's quarterfinal match be­tween third-seeded Chris Evert 
and Claudia Porwick of West Martina Navratllova advanced to the semi-finals over Helena Sukova. Germany. of the Austrailian Open with a 6-4, 7-6 victor)' 

Tile a.....Notnt o.me office, Joc:ated on the third floof of LaFortune Stu· ct.nt Center, eccepta claaalfled ~ttng from 10 Lm. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Tile a.....Saint Mery'8 offlc:e, located on the third floor of ~Collge Center, eccepta c&uelfleda from 12:30 p.m. unt113 p.m., Monday ttlfough Friday. Oeedllne tor next-Oay claaalfledala 3 p.m. All claaalfleda muat 
Classifieds be prepaid, either In penson or by mall. The ch~ Ia 10 cents per five c:hlnc:ttn per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING 2n-11131 or 237·1949 
MARISSA'S TYPING 2n·2724 NIGHT; 2n·1051 DAY. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CAU MAS. COKER, 233-7009. 
Doc Pierce's is hiring food end cocktail servers for parttime evenings.Must be 21.Apply 2-6pm.120 N. Main St. Mis· haw aka 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Ride offerd to Co!OH 1122·1124 277-4149 
NOTICE Save $ on books. Buy used books at Pandoras. 808 Howard (1 block off ND Ave). Open daily 10·5:30 
TYPING SERVICE 259-2334 
TYPING PICKUP AND DELIVERY 2n­7406 
' LOST/FOUND I 
Found: basketball. Call Mark at X1400. II you can identify it, ~·s yours. 
FOUND: Thick gold necklace in Decio Faculty Hall lobby on Wednesday, Jan­uary 13th. Call Ted at 2387 to claim. 
LOST: A MAROON HERMAN'S SPORT· lNG GOODS BACKPACK. IF SOMEONE FINDS IT PLEASE, PLEASE SEAL THE WHITE ENVELOPE AND SEND IT TO 114 LEWIS HALL; IT CONTAINS MANY TYPED APPLICATIONS THAT I REALLY NEED!Ill 
LOST: Gold add-a-bead necklace. 41 7mm beads. Lost day before Christmas break. H found call Christine at x4092. REWARD!!!!! 
LOST · DATALIFE 8 INCH FLOPPY DISK, SOMEWHERE ON SOUTH QUAD OR ALONG NOTRE DAME AVE. ON WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON. PLEASE CALL LINDSAY AT 2927 REWARD REWARD REWARD REWARD 
LOSnt I LOSTMY FAVORITE RED CAP SATURDAY NIGHT. IT WAS LOST EITHER ON PORTAGE AVE. OR AT CAMPUS VIEW. IF YOU FIND IT, PLEASE CALL STEPHEN AT 3018. THERE IS A SMALL REWARD IF FOUND! 
································································ 
FOR RENT 
ROOMATE NEEDED! NOTRE DAME A APTS. $125 MO. QUIET! PLEASE CON· TACT SAM DEPIZZOL AT 271.()804 
ROOM FOR RENT IN 3 BEDROOM TOWNHOUSE. SHARE KITCHEN, WASHER, DRYER. $160-MO ¢ 1/.l UTILITIES. CALL 289-7723. 
................................................................. 
WANTED 
HIRING! Governm...t)oba. your aree. $15,0IJ0.$88,000. Call (802) 838-8885, Ext. 8282. 
DRIVERS NEEDED. STAAT AT $3.75. INSURANCE & BONUS PLAN. PART TIME OR FULL TIME, EVENING HOURS. APPLY IN PERSON AT GOD­FATHER PIZZA, 52920 U.S. 31 N. 
Babya1118ra needed to work per your ach. lor delightful 2 112 yr. girl. Need own trenap & like cata. $2.50 plua hr. 287-3315. 
WANTED: Female roommate to share apl at TurUe Creek. Call Karen for info 2n·5195 
CANDIDATES FOR SKI SCHOOL AND SKI PATROL, CONTACT SWISS VAL· LEY FOR APPUCATION (818) 244­
5835. 
................................................................ 
FOR SALE 
MACINTOSH BOOK EXTERNAL DISK DRIVE FOR SALE. CALL JOHN AT 2093. 
................................................................ 
TICKETS 
Naed 2 GA's and 1 student, cir 4 GA's for Kansas game. call Bill 1605 

I FINALLY convinced my brother to come to a game, but I don't have a ticket for the Kanaas game yet. Please help mel Sue X3696 
I NEED DAYTON GA'S OR STUD TIX DOUG 2163 
DESPERATELY NEED TWO GA'S FOR KANSAS GAME!!! PLEASE CALL PAUL AT X 1750. WILL PAY BIG $11. 
I NEED 1 STUDENT OR G.A. TICKET TO THE KANSAS BASKETBALL GAME PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 1661. 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOA, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CAU COLLECT FOR JERRY, MORN­INGS 814-3111-4224 
ATTENTION FORMER MALE HOWARD RESIDENTS WHO ARE NOW JUNIORS: We are trying to orga· nize a Howard gathering during the hall socials after the JPW dinner. If you would be interested in attending, and we know you will, call Kevin Walsh at X3609 and sign up. We naed everybody signed up by January 27 end the sooner you sign up the better, so call now I Also, whenever you see other Howard guys tell them about this. Thanks. 
Sell old texts for $$$. Pendoras • 808 Howard (1 block off ND Ave). Open daily 10·5:30. Also save Son used books. 
B 
I would do anything for you but the one thing I can't do is give you what you want··freedom. I'm in too deep and ~ hurts to much to stay, so I guess that means I'll have to go. Maybe someday, H you change your mind, we'll go to 
Chicago again Jim 
Quote for Brian Mark S: Its like a soap opera over there John: Yeah, I know, I live in hell Mark: And I live across from hell THE BOSS HATES US BECAUSE WE'RE THREATENING HIS DOMINANCE OVER THE NATIONAL ROCK SCENE. MICHAEL JACKSON HATES US BECAUSE WE'RE SO GOOD WE'RE BAD TOO, CHAMON. SISKEL AND EBERT HATE US, SO WE MUST BE GOOD. COME HEAR US, THE FLYING LEATHERNECKS TUES. JAN. 19 & WED, JAN. 20 AT CHIPS. 
P.S. OUR MOTHERS HATE US CAUSE WE NEVER WRITE. LOVE, THE FLYING LEATHERNECKS 
To the girl I saw swimming in the Rockne,during finals, wearing a ND Crew sweatshirt who I think coaches and whose name is I think Susie· You look awesome in that black and wMe swim· suit! 
Anyone interested in learning more about, or working w~h Jack Kemp's Presidential Campaign should call Dave at 2001. 
POOL PARTY POOL PARTY POOL PARTY WEDNESDAY AT ROLFS AQUATIC 
CENTER, 8·11PM WATER VOLLEYBALL WATER POLO DIVING MUSIC FOOD INNERTUBES 
Christina, 5 ... 4 ...3 ... 2 ... 1 ... ZONKI Thenx for being there. -Puppy Dog 
I need a stud or GA to the Kansas game on Set. Please help me out. Call Ken at 2165. 
WORK IN JAPAN lndlvlduala with a deg-andbr axp. rlence In: electronics & alectrlcal engineering, TESOL, llngulatlca, pher· macy, aecuri!IW finance, bualneu management, reel H-.engineering, edvertialng, htlecommunlc811ona, education, elementary education and the tnovellnduatry lnlllntated In INch­Ing Engllah lor one year In Japan to employees of major corpora­tlon.governmen1 mlnlatrlea ahould write to: 
ln1ernatlonal Education Servlc:ea Shin Talao Bldg., 10-7, 0ogei1ZIIIul 2· chome 
Shlbuye-ku, Tokyo 150, Japen lnlorme11on on the poaltlon will be Hn1 alter receiving a detailed reaume and photograph. 
································································ 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE THANK YOU ST. JUDE THANK YOU ST. JUDEIII 
Ted, Remember your 21st when you told the others you went to the "brar. So do we. Happy 22nd. Love Candi,Mary,& Muffy 
akl VAIL during Spring Breek a meeting will be held lor tho.. lntereated-Wedneaday 81 :Z.hm Hall, 7:00pm Come ... a 23 minute Vall vldeo-lllpe directed by Warren Miller To aecure a apot, plea.. bring an $80.00 non-refundable depoalt 
DAYTONA DAYTONA DAYTONA SPRING BREAK IN DAYTONA· ROUND TRIP,7 NIGHTS FROM $199 CALL CHRIS 3382 NOW! 
I NEED A RIDE TO INDY OR BLOOI-IINGTON, FRIDAY 1122 CALL TONY £1209 
COME LIVE WITH ME! Turtle Creek Apt. for rent. Call Karen 277·5195 
TO THE WINE CONNOISSEURS, THANKS FOR THE HELPING HAND WHEN TUBING! TWO LOVERS OF BERRINGER'S WHITE ZINFANDEL 
GUITARIST SEEKS TO FOAM BAND. LOOKING FOR DRUMMER, SINGER AND BASSIST. CALL CHUCK AT 288 
5447 
BOYCOTT COCA·COLA BOYCOTT COCA·COLA COKE SWEETENS APARTHEID APARTHEID KILLS SUPPORT THE BOYCOTT 
TO THE DOCTOR, HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY! ROCK & ROLLI I KNOW NOW THAT YOU'RE THE ONE MY MOTHER WARNED ME ABOUT. ITS BEEN KEVIl! LUV, YOUR BABY DOLL 
IF ANYONE HAS THE BOOK CATHOUCISM FOR SALE PLEASE CALL X3838 
HEY FLANNER, FARLEY, PWI LETS' DO CHICAGO AGAIN SOON. NO MORE LIMBO, THOUGHIII SC 
THE MIDGETS ARE COMING 

THEY'LL BE SHOAT 
THEY'LL BE SCREAMING 
THEY'LL BE AWESOME! 
thank you, Card fan & Incorrigible& & all the rest for making my 2oth so great! Love, Kelly & all the rest of me 
Thank you St. Jude for the answering of special intentions! 
Top Ten ANaona Why to go to Vall lor Spring BrHk 1. the akllng 2. 80 bllra and reatauren1a 3. outdoor hHted pool 4. 1he powder 5. condoa only SOOyda. from 111111 8. the women 
7. the back bowta 8. the men 9. II you don't go, you'll only be one yNr older when you do 10.1ta more fun than an ND-SMC atudent Ia allowed to have 
BACCHUS BACCHUS BACCHUS 
General BACCHUS meeting Wedneaday, January 20 Basement of Walsh 6pm 
ONLY 24 DAYS! 
BILL WEBB DAY 
February 12, 1988 
Just when you thought ~ was safe to be a senior. 
C. Leigh F. So, hed any parties in your bra lately? What is up with the Lime Jello? Inquiring minds went to know. M.S.P. 
Congrats to Bill end Stacy on their en· gagement 
DAVID-COMMUNICATION&IIGMT rna): Do You recall New YNra Eve In Dallaa, TX 81 the Fu1 And Cool? A cer1aln SMU Mualc Therapy ma). • TANIA Cordobea • thlnlul you are one In a million and would like to keep In touch. PleaM Colli me 81 2143600569 a11ar 5pm E.S.T. 
Six of Top 15 lose 
Better ranked or not? 

AP Photo The college basketball world Is being turned upside-down as the ranked teams are losing and the underdogs are winning. Six of the 
top 15 teams were upset over the weekend. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
Associated Press 
A weekend in Hawaii is an enjoyable experience for most visitors. But for New Mexico, it was anything but pleasant. 
"I'm not going to cut my throat about it," New Mexico coach Gary Colson said after his Lobos were upset 79-76 by Hawaii Saturday night. "But I'm glad I've got an electric razor." 
"Maybe we're just a home team," Colson said after Hawaii won for only the second time this season against 13 losses. The Lobos are 12-0 at home but 2-5 on the road and were knocked out of the Asso­ciated Press rankings just two weeks after entering. 
New Mexico had plenty of company this weekend. Also losing were Oklahoma, Duke, Syracuse, Georgetown and In­diana, all in the top 15 last week. 
"They're on the road and a little down after losing to San Diego State (on Thursday)," Hawaii coach Riley Wallace said of the Lobos. "That definitely bothered them, and that's the way we wanted it." 
In other upsets involving Top 20 teams: Kansas State handed No. 11 Oklahoma its second straight loss, 69-62; Maryland de{eated No.9 Duke 72-69; Con-
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
STUDE'S LOUNGE 
Corner of Ironwood and Mishawaka Ave. 
Cordially Invites NO & SMC To Join Us: 
WICKED WEDNESDAY: Frozen of Regular Long Island Ice Teas $2.50 
24 oz Draft Beers  $1.00  
Domestic Canned Beers  $1.00  
Imported Canned Beers  $1.75  
All Shots  $1.00  

THURSDAY: 

Any Shot $}.00 24 oz Draft Beers $}.00 
FREE SNACKS MUSIC-OJ-BEST IN TOWN TOP 40 DANCE MUSIC 
NO COVER 
Across the street {rom 7-11 Food Mart 

11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
The Observer page 11 
Knight 'honored' for efforts vs. Soviets 

Associated Press 
RADNOR, Pa. -Indiana Uni­versity basketball Coach Bob Knight was recognized again Monday for pulling his team off the court in an exhibition game with the Soviet Union. 
TV guide magazine bestowed its 1987 "Mr. Nice Guy" Award to the coach for leading his team out of Assembly Hall in Bloomington, Ind., on Nov. 21, 1987 after he was ejected with about 15 minutes left in the game. Indiana forfeited the game, 66-43, to the Soviets. 
"More or less on the eve of necticut shocked No. 14 Syracuse 51-50; Boston College beat No. 15 Georgetown 68-66, and Michigan State edged In­diana 75-74 in overtime, helping knock the Hoosiers out of the rankings. 
In Sunday's only contest in­volving a ranked team, No. 13 Illinois defeated Tennessee 103­
79. On Saturday, Illinois downed Wisconsin 80-65. 
In other Top Ten games Sat­urday, it was No. 1 Arizona 70, Oregon 54; No. 2 North Carolina 87, Virginia 62; No. 3 Temple 73, St. Bonaventure 63; No. 4 Kentucky 83, Tennessee 65; No.5 Purdue 82, Minnesota 74; No. 6 Pittsburgh 85, Vil­lanova 73, No. 8 Nevada-Las Vegas 92, Providence 72 and No. 10 Iowa State 123, U.S. in­ternational 92. 
In games involving the second ten, it was No. 16 Kansas 95, Hampton Univer­sity 69; No. 19 Iowa 92, Northwestern 68; and Auburn, ranked 19th the previous week 65, Mississippi State 57. 
Chris Gaines scored 23 points and Reggie Cross had 18 points and nine rebounds as Hawaii upset New Mexico in a Western Athletic Conference game. 
David Hollums scored two baskets to put Hawaii in front 75-72. Then, after Charlie 
arms-control talks between the 
U.S. and Soviet Union, Knight established a foundation for friendship by· engaging the So­viet basketball team in a game at Bloomington, Ind., where he insulted the visitors, and, from that humble start destroyed the game altogether," the maga­zine said. 
Knight was reprimanded by the university and later apologized for taking his team off the court. 
New York Mets outfielder Darryl Strawberry was a close runnerup, the magazine said, and "forever the Nice Guy con-Thomas brought New Mexico to within one point, Gaines hit two free throws to make the score 77-74. 
Thomas scored again with eight seconds left to pull the Lobos within 77-76, but then New Mexico was given a tech­nical foul after asking for a time out it did not have. Gaines sank the two free throws to seal the victory. 
Rob Loeffel led New Mexico with 19 points and Thomas had 18. 
Nick Anderson scored 21 points Sunday in the Illini's 103­79 rout of Tennessee. Kendall Gill added 19 points, Ken Battle had 17 and three other players were in double figures. 
On Saturday, Trent Jackson cut Illinois' lead to 68-63 on a 3-pointer with 2: 56 left, but Wis­consin didn't score again until Danny Jones hit a short jumper with 12 seconds left, making the 

score 78-65.  
Glynn  Blackwell  had  16  
points for Illinois.  
Connecticut  shocked- 

Syracuse at home, 51-50. Phil Gamble's 3-pointer with 
1: 01left tied the score 50-50 and Cliff Robinson went to line for two shots with two seconds left. Robinson missed the first shot but hit the second for Connec­ticut's only lead of the game. 

tender" John McEnroe claimed third place. 
Strawberry was cited for his behavior on and off the dia­mond. 
"According to his wife, filing for separtion at the time, he broke her nose with a punch and, on Super Bowl Sunday, stole her purse," the magazine said. 
"Contending he had a virus, he also missed two games, but on one of those days, he was well enough to go to a recording session at a New York studio," the magazine said. 


Ryan 
continued from page 16 
them. I haven't been given the OK." 
Ryan added that it really didn't matter because "word is getting out, I'm sure. One of the girls I'm recruiting is the sister of one of the girls on the team Tozar) . " 

While Assistant Coach Mike McDonnell remains working with the team during the track season, a need for a new head coach this spring grows as time passes. 
"CHow well we do next fall) depends on how quickly we get someone also to work with us this spring," said Filar. 
Ryan supervised the upgrad­ing of the women's cross country club to varsity status in 1986. He served as an advisor the club during the 1985-86 season. 
Ryan coached the team while attending Notre Dame's law school. He earned a juris doctor degree in May, 1987. 
Ryan was engaged to Mary Nelson of South Bend over break. 

, 

4:;.~Tickets 
and at 

Sponsored b SUB the door 
... 
~------------~-------------------------------------------------------------~----­
The Observer Tuesday, January 19, 1988 

page 12 


Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Grady Mateen's dunk with seven seconds remaining gave Ohio State a 70-68 upset of No. 7 Mic­higan in Big Ten Conference play Monday night. 
The victory marked Ohio State's second victory over a Top Twenty team in four days. Last Thursday, the Buckeyes, 9-5 overall and 2-2 in the Big Ten, defeated No. 17 Iowa, 87­83. 
The loss ended Michigan's 13­game winning streak and left the Wolverines at 14-2 and 3-1, dropping them into a tie for second place in the conference with Illinois. 

Temple 59, Penn State 44 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa.­Mark Macon scored 19 points and Tim Perry added 13 points and blocked six shots as No. 3 Temple defeated Penn State 59­

Ll GHI5UPPE I2-­
CONE~ 
rJ v7-10 PN: 

CSC FE$JIVAl-2ND CHANCE R-)12.. INVOLVEMENT IN STU!"X E( CONMUN ITY G-QouPS.­OVE~ 3o GQcup; .g_ ORGAN IZ;AI!ON$ 
12.E Pr:2_G SEN liD. 
RY I h, 1~88. 

Fencers 
continued from page 16 

''The tournament gives us an opportunity to see how we size up against teams across the na­tion," DeCicco said. 
This year, DeCicco is guiding a very young and relatively in­experienced fencing team. This has not meant an unsuc­cessful year, as both the men's and women's teams have got­ten off to great starts. 
"If we continue to succeed while the team is still young, I'll be very optimistic about the future," he said. 
And he has reason to have confidence in his program, as he has coached six All-Americans and two National Champions in the past three years. In his whole career, he has coached eight individual and four team national cham­pions. 
Is there a national champi­onship in the years ahead? 

Ohio State upsets Michigan 
DAILY DRINK SPECIALS 
.MONDAY 
75 c DRAFf 

Featuring: Michelob & Miller Lite 
TUESDAY 
MARGARITA VILLE $1.00 off all Jumbo Margaritas only $1.95 75 c shots of Cuervo Gold A Jumbo & a shot for only $2.50 
WEDNESDAY 
HOT SHOT SCHNAPPS NIGHT 75 c shots of "Hot Tropical Schnapps" $1.50 Sunburns & Suntans 
THURSDAY 
CORONA NIGHT cross the Border for only $1.25 a bottle 
FRIDAY 

Molson & Moosehead 2 Canadian favorites for only $1.00 a bottle 
SATURDAY 

Our Top Shelf Golden Margarita made with Cuervo Gold & Cointreau $1.00 off -Only $2.95 
SUNDAY 

Pitchers of our famous Margaritas for only $4.90 
Tony Ward scored 13 points and Tom Hovasse added 12 for Penn State, which dropped to 6-8 overall and 2-4 in the con­ference. 
Temple and 12th-ranked Brigham Young of the Western Athletic Conference are the only two remaining undefeated teams in Division I college bas­ketball. 
Butler 66, Loyola 54 
INDIANAPOLIS -Chad Tucker scored four of his game­high 23 points and Darren Fowlkes had five of his 13 in a decisive 9-2 spurt as Butler 
"I think the kids are enough this year," DeCicco enthusiastically. All the kids have to do is realize that they can do it." 
What is his formula for suc­cess? 
"The harder you work the more success you have," he said. "It's that simple. The kids know this and as they work they'll find they'll get better and better. " 
defeated Loyola 66-54 in Mid­western Collegiate Conference play Monday. 
In other college basketball action across the nation Mon­day, 14th-ranked Syracuse throttled Big East rival Boston College 90-60, Xavier continued the season-long woes of Detroit with a 105-84 rout, Louisville whipped intrastate foe Western Kentucky 84-71, South Carolina crushed Memphis State 84-58 in a Metro Conference shootout, Austin Peay tripped Eastern Kentucky 78-64, West Virginia upended St. Bonaventure 71-54 and Florida A&M rattled Cop­pin State 79-69. 



By ROB PIERCE Sports Writer 
They're off and running. 
The 1988 edition of the Irish men's indoor track team began its season this weekend at the Purdue Invitational, and the performance gave head coach Joe Piane good reason to be en­thusiastic. 
"I'm excited," said Piane. "We have good bodies everywhere, and we'll be a good track team eventually." 
The meet format was such that the athletes competed for individual award, as in the Olympics, instead of for team points. Top perfomers for the Irish were shotputter Tom Kraus and distance runners David Warth and Mark Lavery. 
Kraus earned a third place finish with a throw of 53'3", just seven inches short of the win­ner. The performance qualified him for the prestigious IC4A Championships in March, but the sophomore was · not satisfied with the effort. 
"I wanted a better start," said Kraus, "but I'm still two feet ahead of where I was last year at this time. My distance was not the problem; it's my technique that needs improve­ment. I don't think anyone on the team was too happy with his performance, but that's typical after the first meet." 

Warth, a junior, finished first in the 1000 meters with a time of 2: 26. He also qualified for the IC4A's but is looking beyond that to his season goal of qual­ifying for the National meet. 
"Last year I missed the Na­tionals by two-tenths of a second. The upcoming meets will tell me more about this year's competition, but I'm confident at this point in the season that I can improve on last year's time." 
Warth, who led the race from start to finish for the first time in his track career, was im­pressed with the performance of Lavery, a freshman. The pair finished 1-2 for the Irish, with Lavery taking second in 2:28. 
Other top performances were turned in by sophomores Yan Searcy and Glenn Watson. Searcy finished third in the 400 meters with a time of 49:75, while Watson took third in the 55-meter hurdles. 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for 
the following position: 
Assistant Ad Design Manager 
Applications due Tues., January 19 at the Observer Office 
For further information contact Molly Killen 

Happy Birthday to DAN WEBER 
at The Observer (239-5303) 
From: John, Steve, Chuck, Steve, and Jeff 
NVA lists 
Special to The Observer 
Non-varsity athletics has 
announced the following 
entry deadlines: 
Tomorrow: 
•Bowling 
league. Teams consist of at least seven people. Five games held Monday nights, Jan. 25-Feb. 22, at Beacon Bowl (no transportation provided). 

•Doubles 
handball tourn­ament. Players must submit entries to the NVA office. Best of three games -21 points per game. Each team must call NVA for first­round pairings (available Monday). 

•Track 
and field. Both men's and women's events, points for first and second. Halls are ranked by points compiled by individuals. Events include 60-yard hurdles, mile run, four-and eight-lap relays, 60-, 440-, and 880-yard dashes, high jump and broad jump. 

•Men's 
and women's doubles racquetball tourna­ments. Teams must repre­sent one hall. Players must call NVA to receive first pairing (available Monday) and date of opening round, and are responsible for reporting score. 


Thursday: 
•Cross 
country ski clinic, to be held Sunday, Jan. 24. Skis are available to rent. Cost is $4 with skis and $6 without skis. 

•Downhill 
ski trip to Ski World in Buchanan, Mich. Buses leave Library Circle at 5:30p.m. Friday, Jan. 22, and leave Ski World at 11:15 


p.m. Cost is $15 for lift ticket and equipment rental, or $10 for lift ticket only. Optional instruction is included. 
Other classes available in­clude: 
•A 
five-week scuba diving course. An informational meeting about the course will be held tonight. 

•Karate 
classes. They begin Monday, Jan. 25, and 


page 13 
deadlines 
will be held Mondays and Wednesdays from 7-8: 30 

p.m. There will be a free shorin-ryu karate demonstration tomorrow at 7 p.m in the JACC boxing room. 
•Aerobics. 
Students may sign up for full semester or half semester. Classes are held Monday-Wednesday, Tuesday-Thursday ($8 full semester, $6 half semester), Fridays, and Sundays ($3 full, $2 half). 

•Hydrorobics. 
Classes held 6:45-7:45 p.m. Mondays and Wednesdays ($8 full semes­ter, $5 half semester) , or 12:15-12:45 p.m. Tuesdays and Thursdays ($7 full, $5 half). NVA also has pledge cards available for the Cen­tury Club until March 2. Members fill out a pledge card at NVA, pick an aerobic activity, choose a goal to work toward and complete a log book. Free t-shirts awarded for working out. 


Proof of insurance is re­quired for all contact and non-contact sports. Forms and more information are available in the NVA office. 
Students, faculty and staff may rent cross-country ski equipment from NVA, Thursday through Sunday at the Rockne Memorial, inside the golf pro shop entrance. Check outs are available from 4:30-5:30 p.m. Thursday-Saturday and from 12-1 p.m. Saturday. Check in takes place 4 : 30­
5:30 p.m. Friday-Sunday and 12-1 p.m. Saturday. 
Rates are $3 overnight, $5 for two nights, $6 for three nights and $2 for Saturday noon-5:30p.m. There is a $5 late fee for equipment returned after 5:30p.m. Sun­day. 
The Joyce center weight room is available for student use. The hours are: 11 a.m. 
to 1 p.m. and 6:30-10:30 p.m. Monday through Friday and 1-6 p.m. Sunday. 
Cadets 
continued from page 16 
ically. The plan worked ... for about ten minutes. 
Midway through the first per­iod, Army and Notre Dame were tied 1-1. Montgomery gave the Irish a 2-1 lead with 
10: 02left in the first period, and Army never recovered. 
While the Cadets were com­mitting 16 penalties in trying to come back from a 4-1 deficit, McNeill and Bob Herber were busy putting the finishing touches on another Notre Dame triumph. McNeill scored three goals for a hat trick, and Herber scored twice. 
"We showed great team sportsmanship, the passing was crisp and accurate, and we showed very creative playmaking," said Schafer. 
"Bobby Herber played an ex­cellent game for us. He was in there with some big goals for us. 
"We were very sound," Schafer continued. "We were primed. We knew these were two of the big games on our schedule." 
Notre Dame never has had a better record at this point in the season. The Irish will try to extend their six-game win­ning streak this weekend in two home games against North Dakota State. 
·-------~--­
-r~---~---··----­
page 14 

Public favors Broncos in Super Bowl betting 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS, Nev. ­Gamblers, impressed with John Elway, put their money on the Broncos Monday and made them even stronger favorites to win the Super Bowl than the od­dsmakers did when they opened Denver as a three-point choice over the Washington Redskins. 
Most legal sports books had the Broncos a 3 1-2 point favor­ite by Monday, after bettors jumped on the three-point spread with some large wagers. 
"They're betting the hell out of it," said Vic Salerno, owner of Leroy's sports and race book. "The public is making a comparison of quarterbacks and they feel Elway is the bet­ter quarterback and can beat them in so many different ways." 
"Elway is without a doubt the best quarterback in football and the bettors know that," agreed Sonny Reizner of the Frontier Hotel sports book. 
Several sports books re­ported some unusually big bets soon after the first lines were put up following Sunday's games, and oddsmakers were delighted with the pace of bet­ting for the big game. 
"This year there was more action than normal,'' said Scott Schettler, manager of the sports book at the Stardust hotel-casino. "Usually, the bet­tors just look at the number and ignore it for a week or so." 
The heavy early betting had oddsmakers optimistic that this year's Super Bowl will match or exceed last year's game, when an estimated $25 million was wagered legally on the game between the Broncos and New York Giants. 
At the Stardust, one of the biggest books in the state, Schettler said his book alone will do "a couple of million" dollars on the game. 
"That would be a nice Super Bowl," said Schettler. "These aren't the most attractive teams, but the people that make the Super Bowl their one bet of the year will still bet." 

Terry Cox, who manages the sports book at Harrah's Reno, said he opened his line at three points, then moved it up a half­point when several "high-limit players" bet on the Broncos. 
"I think Denver has a certain appeal to the public," said Cox. ''They've got a lot of per­sonalities with Elway and the Three Amigos. I think that will help make it a good betting game for us." 
Cox said the betting public's excitement over the matchup is evidenced by the fact the overunder line started at 46 1-2 points and is going up, with most people betting that the total score will be higher than that. 
"They're expecting a lot of offense and a lot of good foot­ball," he said. "I think we'll get away from a drudgery Super Bowl this year and have a good exciting game." 
Schettler said he, for one, is not all that impressed by the Broncos and thinks the line is too high. 
"Their defense got pushed around in the second half against Cleveland,'' said Schet­tler. "Cleveland just battered them and I kind of like Wash­ington to do the same. I don't think Denver can stop Wash­ington on defense." 
Schettler said he thinks Washington will win the game straight up. The odds, he said, simply reflect how the book­makers think the public will bet the game. 
"We started Denver at three and it's not because we think Denver is three points better," he said. "We think the public perceives them as being three points better and you have to predict what the public is going to perceive to make money in this business." 
Salerno agreed, saying he thinks the game is a tossup. 
"I think it's a pick 'em per­sonally," said Salerno. "Was­hington has a better defense than the Broncos and I think they can win the game. The public just is betting Denver because of Elway and Wash­ington has the kind of defense that can stop Elway." 

The Denver Broncos have a leg up, not on the Packers, but on the Redsklns. The Broncos are 
Monk will play in Super Bowl 
Associated Press 

HERNDON, Va. -Redskins Coach Joe Gibbs said Monday that wide receiver Art Monk should be ready to play against the Denver Broncos in the Super Bowl. 
Monk, who missed being se­lected to the Pro Bowl this year after three straight appear­ances, suffered a partial tear of the medial collateral liga­ment in his right knee in a game against the St. Louis Car­dinals on Dec. 6, and has been on the inactive list since. 
"I think he's ready to roar," Gibbs said. "I told him not to try it until he feels he's 100 per­cent, and I think he is now." 
Meanwhile, Redskins run­ning back Timmy Smith said Minnesota's defense is super­ior to Denver's unit. 
"I don't think their defense is as tough as Minnesota's," said Smith, who rushed for 72 yards Sunday. "I don't think the Denver Broncos' defense is as aggressive, so that's going to give us a little edge." 
The Redskins could also have an edge if they have Monk, who set an NFL single-season record in 1984 with 106 catches. 
Monk has been working out 
on  his  own  for the past few  
weeks.  Gibbs  said  he  will  
assess  the  condition  of  the  

eight-year veteran Thursday and Friday before deciding whether he is healthy enough to reclaim his starting spot from Ricky Sanders for the Super Bowl on Jan. 31. 

' 
t 
' 
! 
I 
I I 
I I 
~ 
t 
~ 
Poster Sale 
English rock Posters, etc. 1st Floor LaFortune, Room 1 08 Tue., Jan 19th -Fri. Jan 22nd. 
THE NO. 1 CAMPUS 
POSTER SALE 
• 

SALE OF IMPORTED ROCK & POP POSTERS FROM LONDON, UK ALSO AVAILABLE FILM & FINE ART POSTERS 
MARLEY  •  THE  SMITHS  •  U2  
BOWIE •  THE CURE •  PINK FLOYD  
BRAQUE  •  tvtONDRIAN  e  DALI  

APOCALYPSE NOW • L. REED TALKING HEADS • THE WHO THE WALL • U2 • MONET ERASER HEAD • NEW ORDER GABRIEL • BAUHAUS • GENESIS JOY DIVISION • BUNNYMEN MANY MANY MORE -ALL STYLES 
LARGE • GIANT 


~§-~§Wednesday§and~Thursday~~§l 
STRIPES 
8:00 and 10:00 pm 

~~~§Friday~nd Saturday~~~~ 
CADDYSHACK 

.. 
8:00 and 10:00 pm 
Cushing Auditorium 

1.00 

Tuesday, January 19, 1988 The Observer 
Campus 
Tuesday 
12 p.m.: Brown Bag Seminar, "The Cultural Foundations of Militant Islamic Movements," by Father Patrick Gaffney, Kellogg Institute and Department of Anthropology, 131 Decio Hall. 12 p.m.: Brown Bag Seminar, "The Prisoner's Dilemma and Education Policy," by University of Rochester Professor Tyll van Geel, Thomas White Center on Law and Government, Room 120 Law School. 4:30p.m.: Biological Sciences Seminar, "Development of New Generation Vac­cines Against Whooping Cough: A Molecular Approach," by Dr. Jerry Keith, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, Rocky Mountain Labora­tories, Hamilton, Montana, Room 283 Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium. 7 p.m.: Tuesday Night Film Series, "Un Chien Andalou/Meshes of the Mternoon 
/The End,"Annenberg Auditorium. 7 p.m.: Presentation I Reception for Accountancy, Finance, and MBA students, First National Bank of Chicago, Career and Placement Services, Alumni Room, 
Morris Inn. 9 p.m.: Tuesday Night Film Series, Dante's "Inferno," Annenberg Auditorium. 
Wanted: the ntost mnbitious juniorat NotreDmne 
• 
must be able to sell 

• 
must enjoy business 


• 
must want an excellent opportunity to make money and gain experience 


If interested, call Kevin Becker at 239-5303 today to arrange an interview. 
Comics 
Bloom County 
1Ht Mlt.lrANT WIN& Of ''Tffc !?llfJICI/l fcMINIST IINP te58t. weF<F<ttlll fltt.lfiNC£" tstN THe lOBBY fWfJ THeY'/?£ TICKtfl/1801/T (J(Jf? 1?£UNT CHeeKY t.IN&£1?1£ COLO!? INS£/?T. NOW WIITCH . 
HOW 11 Pf<Off5SION/1Lt: ­IJ£frt.Y Mfl/5£5 11 VOt.IITIU 51TVIJT10N ... 
Calvin and Hobbes 
~Y. CALVIN lt>.K£5 nlf>.\ STU11ED TIGER 
E.IJER'iW\.IERE 
I£ 1::/:J't:S' 
\lO ~00 WORQ.~ A~l \1-111--1 ? I lr\00, ~OULDN\ f-IE BE 1'\.A~ lNG 't.J\nl REAl ~R\ENDS? 

Berke Breathed Far Side 
Bill Watterson 

()1,.\, I T\-\11'11:'. \-IE W\u_ W\.IEN 
l-IE'S R£1\D'{. DIDNI ~()\J t.VER "t>.'IE ~t-1 11-.\f\G\~r>.R~ ~\EI'\i)' 
\ 

The Daily CroSS'!'fOrd 
ACROSS 1 A Cooper 5 Tunes In 
10 "-and the Man" 
14 Fiber plant 
15 TV host 
16 Follow 17 Hollow bread 

18 TV personality 
20 Coach or hand 22 Pick up an option 23 Landing system: abbr. 
26 Undivided 
27 Whirl 
29 Piazzas 
31 Star 
35 Pas de ­
36 Weed 
37 Inlet 

38 Dawson, Sajak 1:-:--+--+--t-­and Cullen 
43 Summer: Fr. 
44 -sapiens 

45 Pony (up) ©1988 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
46 Bowling All Rights Reserved 48 Twisted 
biscuit 7 Skin problem 51 Onion cousin 8 Nlmoy to 52 Swiss river friends 53 Overhead 9 "-Hunt" 
railways 10 Gr. goddess 54 Stories 11 Teem 57 Nixon's veep 12 Arachnid 59 "Jeopardy" 13 Killed 
host 19 Ghost or copy 62 Native dance 21 Mass of Ivy 66 Nev. city 23 Gimmick 67 Growl 24 Produce 68 Religious 25 Insight 
picture 27 Break 69 Lacerate 28 Opening 70 Deml--30 Tomahawk 71 Buffoon 32 Alloy 
33 Beam over a DOWN door 
1 Hiatus 34 Art Items 48 Signal 2 Arab caliph 36 Couple devices 3 Nonsense! 39 Most bashful 49 Embitter 4 Voice votes 40 Sharpen 50 Before 5 "Knots 41 Russ. city 54 Sour 
Landing" 42 Took a break 55 Nautical word actor 47 Medical 56 Singer Horne 6 Likenesses hammer 57 Arab robes 
page 15 

"Now remember, Cory, show us that you can take good care of these IIHie fellows and maybe next year we'll get you that puppy." 
01/19/88 
58 Expert 60 Alphabet sequence 61 Alfonso's queen 63 Edible tuber 

-
64 Actor Ely 65 At all 
Gary Larson 

.. 

Sports
page 16 Tuesday, January 19, 1988 

.. 
-


Mike McNeill (22) and the rest of the Notre Dame swept Army at West Point. Steve Megargee has hockey team celebrate another goal. The Irish the details at right. 
Ryan leaves cross country post 
By PETE GEGEN "I had the beginnings of News of the resignation Sports Writer an ulcer last fall, and I had did not totally shock mem­to stop running and compet-bers of the cross country
After leading the women's team. cross country program from 
"We were a little its birth as a varsity sport surprised," said freshman two years ago, Head Coach Linda Filar, "but it was not Dan Ryan has resigned as totally unexpected." 
coach of the team. Although Ryan admitted 
"I resigned as cross he has resigned, he noted country coach Jan. 8," said that it has not oficially been Ryan, confirming reports announced by the athletic 
from his team that he an­department.nounced his resignation in a "They wanted me to con­team meeting last Wednes­tinue on through with the day. recruiting process," he said. 
Ryan cited three reasons Jlllllllljf:"f "I'll go in to the office on 
for giving up the head coach­Saturday and answer mail
Dan Ryan

ing job. He was recently en­and contact recruits." When gaged over Christmas ing," said Ryan, a former asked if he told the recruits 
break, and he wanted to con­academic All-American and he had resigned, Ryan said, 
centrate more on his law a Michigan state represen­"I haven't said anything to work. His third reason in­tative on the Athletic volved stress. Congress' Elite Runner List. see RYAN, page 11 

The Observer I File Photo 
Coach Mike DeCicco won his 600th career victory tlclpated In the United States Fencing Association for Notre Dame as the Irish defeated the University Collegiate Open. of Pennsylvania, 15-12. DeCicco's team also par-
McNeill leads ND 
•

1n sweep of Army 
By STEVE MEGARGEE recording its second consecu­Sports Writer 
tive shutout. 

Irish goalie Lance Madson 
Last year's hockey series be­had blanked Arizona 10-0 on tween Notre Dame and Army, Jan. 9, and Army's only goal on remembered more for its Friday came with 3:01 left in physical play than its hockey, the game. Madson recorded 33 ended in a split after a late saves while allowing only one Cadet comeback in the second goal. game. "Madson was his usual 
A disciplined Notre Dame steady self back there in goal squad prevented last for us," said Schafer. "It was weekend's series at Army from just a flurry at the end there, getting as physical, and Mike and one slipped through his McNeill made sure the Irish pads." would not have to settle for an­By the time Army scored, the other split. Irish had long since put the 
The senior captain from game away. Brian South Bend St. Joseph's High Montgomery and Tim Kuehl School scored five goals, in­scored goals within nineteen cluding a hat trick on Saturday, seconds of each other to give to lead Notre Dame (15-2-2) to Notre Dame a 2-0 lead after one a 6-1, 8-4 series sweep of Army period. (5-11-2). McNeill's five goals Four goals in the second per­and two assists for the weekend iod gave the Irish a 6-0 lead moved him into ninth place on after two periods, and Notre the all-time Notre Dame Dame coasted to victory from scoring list with 171 career there. points. 
"Mike can steal the show any "That's a game we should time he really wants to," said save in the archives," said first-year Irish coach Ric Schafer. "It was one of those Schafer. "He was in top form games where we really played over the weekend. He put on a well." good show and stood out." In Saturday's game, played 
But Notre Dame's sweep was in front of West Point's largest far from a one-man show. The crowd ever of 2664 fans, the Irish defense was particularly Cadets tried to play more phys-impressive in Friday's game, coming three minutes short of see CADETS, page 13 
DeCicco wins 600th as fencers top UPenn 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO the fencing," he said. •· iou 
Sports Writer play it down because the young 
men and women did it." 
"It's a credit to the kids." This response to such a spec­
This is what Irish head coach tacular achievement may well 
Michael A. DeCicco said in be atrributed to modesty, but 
response to his 600th win at the DeCicco insists it isn't. 
University of Pennsylvania "It's not really a question of 
last week. modesty," he said. "I've 
The men's fencing team beat learned early on that these kids 
Pennsylvania in a dual meet really want to win, and that as 
last Friday by a score of 15-12, much as anything else has 
which gave DeCicco his 600th made Notre Dame fencing so 
fencing victory at Notre Dame. successful." 
His overall record in regular The victory on Friday was 
season meets is now 600-75, against one of Notre Dame's 
with a 506-40 record and a 94-35 toughest opponents, the Uni­
record for the men's and wo­versity of Pennsylvania. Fol­
men's teams, respectively. lowing this match, the fencers 
Today, DeCicco coaches only competed in the United States 
the men's team, which is pres­Fencing Association Collegiate 
ently building on a 79-meet win­Open Tournament through the 
ning streak. weekend, and the individual 
Yves Auriol has taken on the performances were impres­
duties of coaching the women, sive. 
and has won 46 straight regular 
season meets in three years. DiCicco's men's foil team 
DeCicco, himself a fencer at finished first, with senior 
Notre Dame from 1947-1949, set Yehuda Kovacs taking individ­
the Notre Dame record for all­ual third place honors, junior 
time winning percentage by a Derek Holeman placed seventh 
fencer with a 45-4 record and a amd sophomore Colin Gumbs 
.918 winning percentage. took the eighth spot. 
He had still held that record The men's team finished 
until recently when senior third in the sabre competition, 
Yehuda Kovacs broke it. freshman Leszak Nowosielski 
Kovacs' present record is 82-6, took third individually, junior 
a .931 winning percentage. Tim Collins placed tenth, and 
DeCicco began his coaching sophomore Danny Yu placed career in 1954 as an assistant 11th for the Irish. coach under Walter Langford, Junior Todd Griffee led the and when Langford left in 1960, Irish epee team to a third place DeCicco was left with the head finish in the open. Griffee finish job. second and teammate Ted Fay 
"When you win 600 matches, placed tenth. that's credited mostly to the young men and women doing see FENCERS, page 12 








