
.....------------­---------------~----­
Bye, bye clouds
IACCENT: Italian culture at N.D. Clearing early today, then mostly sunny and mild. 
Highs in the lower 50s. Clear 
and cold tonight. Lows in the
IVIEWPOINT: An election full. of regrets 

lower 30s. 



VOL. XXII, NO. 49 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1988 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Bush, Duke plan final day efforts 
Associated Press and the American people," the vice president said before 
George Bush and Michael heading for Houston and the Dukakis sprinted for the finish final rally of candidacy. line Monday in their marathon Dukakis was campaigning quest for the White House, the into overtime in a desperation vice president confidently drive for an upset. He told a saying the nation was "coming crowd of 20,000 in California in behind my candidacy" while that voters would kick Bush his underdog rival vowed he'd "right out of our future." spring a stunning "November Democrats expressed confi­surprise." · dence they would command 
Both men raced across majorities in the 101st Congress America in a final-day search that will govern alongside the for support while their cam­new president. They also paigns spent nearly $1 million angled for modest gains in the apiece on competing 30-minute dozen statehouse races on Tues­evening appeals on network day's ballot. television. Bush, the leader in The final day of America's the polls, also aired a new five­longest, costliest and-some minute commercial that said-nastiest presidential cam­

appeared to see Dukakis and hear his prediction of sharply attacked his Demo­paign left little room for sub-victory on Nov. 8. cratic ri'val. "It's in the hands of the gods see ELECTION, page 5 
Chinese quake registers 7.6, death toll hits 600 
Associated Press Hu's account could not be minorities with ·their own lan­earthquake. Each number on that doctors had set out for the confirmed independently. An guages and live in houses of the scale indicates a tenfold in­area and the governor, He 
BEIJING--A powerful earlier Radio Beijing report wood and mud. crease in strength and a Zhiqiang, was en route. earthquake struck just inside said total casualties were 600, A Yunnan official reached by temblor of 7 can cause heavy China's mountainous southern including dead and injured. telephone said the provincial damage in populated areas. The quake was centered in border, and two official radio government had no idea how Yunnan's · Lancang and stations reported Monday that The State Seismology many people were killed. Following Sunday's quake, Menglian counties, about 240 600 people were killed. Bureau in Beijing, which had Asked whether 600 was a the State Seismology Bureau miles southwest of the provin­
reported 18 killed and 54 in­plausible, he said: "It might said dozens of aftershocks had cial capital Kunming. Xinhua 
Radio Beijing and the jured, said it had no new fig­be. It might not be." struck the Yunnan region said most houses in the two Peoples' Central Broadcasting ures. Dispatches from the offi­If the death toll of 600 is ac­through Monday night, with the counties were demolished and Station quoted the same cial news agency Xinhua said curate, this would be China's strongst measuring 7.2 but buildings were destroyed in 14 reporter, Hu Jiaqi, about the at least 37 people were dead worst earthquake since the most ranging from 4.0 to 6.0. surrounding counties. death toll. Radio Beijing also and more than 100 injured. 1978, when 242,000 people were quoted him as saying most of No telephone service was killed in the northeastern city Roads to the affected area Seismologists in Kunming re­the dead were in Shanmato, a available to the affected part of Tangshan. were cut and Yunnan aut­ported no damage in the city of village in Yunnan province that of Yunnan province near the horities ordered an airlift of 1.5 million. Three years ago, a was nearly wiped out by the Burmese border. It is sparsely That quake measured 7.8 on food, medicine and other relief· quake of 6.3 on the Richter earthquake, which registered inhabited by farmers, many the Richter scale, a gauge of supplies. The provincial gov­scale killed 22 people and in­
7.6 on the Richter scale. from the Lahu and Va the energy released by an ernment said 300 in Kunming. 
Hiler encourages students to vote in third campus campaign visit 
By REGIS COCCIA portant. I think the student vote a lot of things we wanted to ac­Senior Staff Reporter is very important and I think complish. When I wake up on the Republicans can get that Wednesday morning, win, lose 
Rep. John Hiler of Indiana's vote today," he said. "The or draw, I'm not going to say 3rd Congressional District decisions we make at the this was a bad race." made one of his last campaign federal level will have impact stops Monday night with a visit on students on this campus The large number of Notre . to Notre Dame to encourage today for a long time," Hiler Dame students registered to students to vote. said. "Yet the 18 to 25-year age vote in Indiana could bring sup­
The Republican stopped to group has the lowest voting at­port for Republican presiden­shake hands with students at tendance of any group. It's im­tial nominee George Bush and North and South Dining Halls, portant that you vote." John Hiler, the incumbent con­where more than 2,500 students Hiler said he thinks the 3rd gressman said. were registered as Indiana District race will be close, but voters by Notre Dame student feels confident he will beat op­"We view this as no different government. ponent Tom Ward, a Notre than any other of our key 
"I just wanted to let students Dame graduate. precincts. We just want to do know their votes are important "Lines are pretty tightly really well out here," he said. and I like them. I think Notre drawn. We're cautiously opti­Dame could play a big part in mistic. A lot is going to depend "Campuses are where folks the vote," Hiler, 35, said. The on voter turnout," he said. often have the most passion campus visit was Hiler's third Hiler won the 3rd District race about things. To me that's a this year. in 1986 by a mere 47 votes. significant thing," said Hiler, The Obselver I 
"You put a lot of significance The race this year against adding he thought Bush's Notre on every vote and 2,500 regis­Democrat Ward has gone very Dame visit last Tuesday was tered voters could be very im-well, Hiler said. "We've done very good for students to see. 

John Hiler visited ND last evening and shook students' hands as they passed to and from dinner at South Dining Hall. 

page 2 The Observer Tuesday, November 8, 1988 INSIDE COLUMN 
IN BRIEF 
•
Gertrude Lafortune, who with her late husband Joseph LaFortune donated funds that created and then remodeled the LaFortune Student Center at Notre Dame, died last Wednesday in Tulsa, Okla. The LaFortunes pro­vided the money that originally remodeled the Univer­sity's science building into a student center in 1953. They were also involved in minor renovations in 1975 and 1983, including the $5-million expansion completed in 1986. The LaFortunes were natives of South Bend. Joseph LaFor­tune, who attended Notre Dame as an undergraduate and received an honorary law degree in 1949, was in the oil business. -The Observer 
A bus driver whose vehicle was commandeered by a passenger who accepted his challenge to "drive this better than I can" has been fired. Kim Miller was dismissed Friday for berating a passenger and leaving a bus unattended. He stepped off his bus after challenging passenger James Biddle to do a better job. Biddle carried the vehicle's 31 passengers more than mile, stopping to let people off and on, before police pulled him over. -Associated Press 

OF INTEREST 
Confirmation candidates and sponsors will 
meet today at 7 p.m. in Badin Hall. Father Peter Rocca 
will be the speaker. -The Observer 
SexuaiHarassment:TheWomen'sResourceCommittee is sponsoring a video and group discussion on sexual har­assment today at 7 p.m. in the Library Lounge. -The Ob­server 
Science Quarterly Magazine will meet today at 7 
p.m. in room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. Articles for the second issue are due on Nov. 11. Call Jackie at 283-4942 or Rob at 283-1795 for more information. -The Observer 
Off-Campus Voters who do not know where to vote should check a chart at the Student Government Office on the second floor of LaFortune or call 239-6283. -The Observer 
Effective Resumes workshop will be held today from 4 to 5 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. How to write a powerful resume will be discussed. -The Observer 
CILA Mexico Project will be meeting today at 9 p.m. for all interested in CILA's summer service project at the Center for Social Concerns' library. Call Dave Lawlor at 283-3268 for more information. -The Observer 
Attention All Voters: students who live on-campus and are registered as Indiana citizens vote at Stepan Cen­ter until 6 p.m. today. -The Observer 
The Math Club is sponsoring an informational talk on careers in computing. Jim Ducy of IBM will speak at 7 
p.m. today in room 214 of the Computer-Math Building. 
-The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit ali sub­mitted materials and d~termine u' and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 

Deaign Editor ...................... David Roth Viewpoint Copy Editor Viewpoint Layout Deaign Auiatant ........... Karen Newlove Moira Fox Typeaettera ... ....................... Tim Kiefer Accent Editor Accent Copy Editor Matt ......................... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Murphy New• Editor ....................... Sara Marley Accent Deaigner .......... Annette Rowland Copy Editor ....................... Missy Weber Typiat ND Day Editor SMC Day Editor Sparta Copy Editor ........ Steve Megargee Photographer ................. Michael Moran 
n. ~ (USPS 599 2~) is published Monday throuah Friday except duriD& cum and v.catioa pcrioda. n.~is published by the students of the Univenity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purcbu­ed for S40 per year ($2' per semester) by writilll n.Ollllner, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, ladia.Da 46556. 
n.o.--Ia a member of n. ~W .,_, All reproduction riahts 11ft ,.._s_ 





Favorite pair of Keds die a slow and painful death 
Last weekend, my tennis shoes finally bit the dust. 
Although most shoes maintain a steady diet of dirt and debris, my "Keds" were different. They really kicked the bucket-you know, dropped dead, conked out, cashed in, cold turkey. 
I can't honestly say it was a sudden death; it certainly wasn't unexpected anyway. Still, just last Friday, those old shoes were alive and kicking.... sort of. 
I bought my Keds the summer before my freshman year. Although my friends scoffed and snickered when I unveiled my "bargain", I was proud of my purchase. Maybe "Keds" couldn't hold a candle to Reeboks or Sperrys, but they were comfortable and-more importantly-cheap. Being a part-time em­ployee and a minimum wage victim, $4.99 suited my meager budget just fine. 
Since that summer, my Keds have carried me through rain, sleet, and dead of night. ... and football games and snowball fights and barn dances. 
As a result, they've taken quite a beating. My shoes have incurred more than a few battle scars over the past several months, and now they boast more interesting stains than the Shroud of Turin. 
There's a small smudge of red paint on the right toe from dance decorating last year, and the sides sport several grass stains acquired playing "pile on" out on the quad. Random patches of grit and grime are a constant reminder of An Tostal mud pits and puddle jumping back in April. 
But while analyzing my sneaker stains sends me soaring down memory lane, the shoes hold no such sentimental value for my family and friends. Every time my mom sees me in my "fetid footwear," for example, she buries her head in her hands and laments, "Your father works 60 hours a week so you don't have to wear shoes like that!" 
My friends are equally unsympathetic. They're convinced the shoes house primitive life forms. Even my grandpa has threatened to fill this year's Christmas stocking with a year's supply of "Odor Eaters." 
Admittedly, my tennis shoes aren't exactly in tip-top condition. Lately, they've been looking a little worse for the wear. I lost the laces long ago-after the second time they broke, I didn't bother buying new ones. After all, they're easier to slip on and off that way. 
The soles have been shredded, and I'm con­vinced that impoverished African peasants have fewer holes in their shoes than I do. Still, 
Michelle 
-~ 


Dall 

,.~ .J 
""-../ ..
Assistant News Editor 
: .k 
R.LP. (P. E.D~ 

I rationalize, lots of people pay big money for savvy sandals and "Nike Airs" with holes already built in. So actually my Keds are quite economical. 
I'm not quite sure exacty when my fascina­tion with soiled shoes began, but it must date back to my early childhood. As a kid, I detested new shoes even worse than spinach casserole or dentist appointments. Well... it was close anyway. 
Some of my buddies would buy their "school shoes" in August, and in April, they'd STILL look like they'd just stepped out of the shoe store. 
I, however, did not belong to this select breed. 
Every mother's nightmare, I delighted in soiling these saps' brand-spankin' new shoes. After spotting a pair of spiffy new sneakers, I'd slyly sneak up on the unsuspecting victim and­WHAM!-before they knew what hit 'em, they'd be "scuffed." Victory was sweet! · 
My aversion to shoe polish and stiff leather persisted as I grew older. In high school, I pur­posely left my new penny loafers out in the rain so they'd acquire the "worn-in" look. (I don't think Mom ever recovered from that one.) 
Even today, no sooner do I break my shoes out of the box than they're scuffed and sullied. 
Although I realize it's final}y time to retire my Keds to that big shoe store in the sky, I hate to see them go. After all, it'll take me two more years to break a new pair in! 

.----------------------~-----,
1 One Month FreeI Rent 



f N.D. APT 
I 234-6647
I RENT IN NOV. AND 
1 GET ONE MONTH FREE 
Ideal location walking distance to school Furnished 2-bedroom 

Tuesday, November 8, 1988 The Observer 
page 3 





Senate welcomes apartheid opponent 
By FLORENTINE Checkett supports completeHOELKER divestment, which he says is Staff Reporter supported by all black civil rights leaders in South Mrica 
Student Senate hosted a but not by the University. member of the campus anti­Checkett is asking the senate apartheid group in order to to write a resolution officially begin considering a resolution condemning apartheid and stating an official student gov­showing student opinion on di­ernment position on apartheid vestment in South Mrica. and divestment. Student senate plans to have 
John Paul Checkett, a student an anti-divestment speaker in leader of the anti-apartheid a future meeting to insure that group, spoke to the senate Mon­they are fully informed before day evening about the Univer­making a decision. sity's official policy of selective In other business, senate re­divestment. Checkett said that ported that the "Quest for the the policy is ineffective, and he Crown" activities were a suc­criticized the University's cess, and that the event would Board of Trustees for their in­likely continue next year. A activity concerning the issue. seasonal pass for non-varsity
"Selective divestment relies activities like the Eck tennis on the subjective judgment of pavilion is being investigated. which companies aren't doing Senate is also hosting "Elec­enough to end apartheid," tion Watch '88" which will show 
Checkett said. "This is not good election coverage in enough." Theodore's at 9 p.m. tonight. 
Three professors share views on presidential election 

By CHRISTINE WALSH Staff Reporter 
Three Notre Dame econom­
ics professors gave a critical 
look at the 1988 presidential 
candidates in a public discus­
sion Monday night. 
Sponsored by Omicron Delta 
Epsilon, a national economic 
honor society, the Presidential 
Election Forum featured pro­
fessors David Betson, Kenneth 
Jameson and James Rakowski 
on economic issues in the 
presidential campaign. 
The group discussed at length the deficit's role in eco­nomic growth during the last decade. They concluded the deficit has had a major impact on the economic expansion of the Reagan Administration. 
Tax cuts and defense spend­ing were cited as causes of the national debt, which have also reduced inflation and spurred growth. 
The forum was moderated by senior Jeff Utz, president of Notre Dame's chapter of Omicron Delta Epsilon. He questioned the professors on Democratic Vice Presidential nominee Lloyd Bentsen's com­ment on the debt that the federal government wrote "$200 billion in hot checks." 

"Calling them 'hot checks' is throwing 40 years of economics down the drain," Rakowski said. The deficit is not like writing bad checks because the deficit can be positive for the economy, he added. 
The deficit is not necessarily a bad thing but should be lim­ited by restricting consump­tion, Jameson said. 
Remarking on the future of military spending, the panelists said they were con­cerned with the amount of spending and the way in which money was spent. 
"Are we going to have SDI or CDI (Conventional Defense Initiative)? CDI is Mike Dukakis," Betson said, stress­ing the need to set priorities in defense strategies and conven­tional defense systems should take presidence over un­productive research. 
The forum ended with a dis­cussion of the United States as the "world's largest debtor na­tion." 
Rakowski said it was not surprizing that the country with the world's largest eco­nomy should also have the larg­est debt. The debt is not beyond what we can handle, and called it "equity investment," he added. 
Other issues discussed in the forum included the employ­ment rate and the polarization of class structures to rich and poor. 


CO~E  TAL~  TOT  E  
BEST  
IN  E  BUSINESS  


WE'LL TELL YOU ABOUT CAREER OPPORTUNITIES AND SUMMER INTERNSHIPS WITH ONE OF THE \VORLD 1S LARGEST FIN.A.NCIAL SERVICES ORGANIZATIONS 
•
Thursday, November 10 7:00 PM 
Alumni Room of Morris Inn 

ADWOf~KS 


page 4 Peace is possible in a nuclear age 
By ANGELA McDONALD 
News Staff 
Nations must change current policies if the world is to have peace, Prof. Robert Johansen said Monday night. 
In lecture titled, "Keeping the Peace and Protecting Na­tional Security Without Nu­clear Weapons," Johansen ex­plored ways of obtaining world peace and alternatives to exist­ing international peace policies. 
Halting the present arms build-up and restructuring all nations' peace policies are im­portant because "moments of peace can quickly disappear with a change in leadership or in a time of crisis and unless there are radical changes in our policy, war may very well take place," he said. 
Johansen, Notre Dame pro­fessor of government and inter­national studies, called world peace an imperative and listed practical reasons for attaining it. 
If the current system con­tinues, economic costs will con­tinue to increase with fears, leading to irrational behavior 
SECURITY BEAT 
THURSDAY, NOV. 3 
I: 15 p.m. An off-campus student reponed the theft of her wallet and contents from her backpack while it was in the lobby of the bookstore. The theft occurred between 9:30 and 10 a.m. Her loss is estimated at $40. 
2:10 p.m. A University employee reponed that a university owned vehicle had been struck by an unknown vehicle on II /2. Damage is estimated at $200. 
5:30p.m. Notre Dame Police cited a South Bend resident for traveling 51 mph in a posted 30 mph zone on Dougla.• Road. 
3:15 p.m. The Zahm Hall rector reported the theft of a sofa from the rec-room sometime between ntidnight on 11/1 and 7:45 a.m. on 11/2. 
FRIDAY, NOV. 4 
I:38 a.m. Notre Dame Police arrested a Notre Dame student for driving while under the influence. The vehicle was traveling at 40 mph in a posted 25 mph zone on Juniper Road. 
10:20 a.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of his checkbook from the first floor of the Hesburgh Library at approximately 2:30p.m. on 11/3. 
3:33 p.m. Notre Dame Security responded to the report of a three vehicle accident on &lison Road. One person was injured. 
7:45 p.m. A resident of Holy Cross Hall reponed that his checkbook and currency had been stolen from his room sometime between 10131 and 11/3. 
SATURDAY, NOV. S 
I:54 a.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of a backpack and contents from the Morris Inn Cloakroom sometime between 
II :45 p.m. on 11/4 and I :30 a.m. on 1115. 
and a problem economy. As fear grows, more money will be spent to build up nuclear weapons, Johansen said. 
Johansen said some possible solutions to the peace problem are: 
•Establishing 
peace zones. 

•Instituting 
an international police force. 


Peace zones might promote the expansion of demilitarized zones and an international police force could regulate and establish policies that operate under the auspices of the United Nations, he said. 
"We have very few alterna­tives, except to change our in­ternational systems," Johan­sen said. "For the present generation it will be a compel­ling task for change." 
Johansen, senior fellow at the University's Institute for Inter­national Peace Studies, is a member of the Board of Direc­tors of Arms Control in Washington, D.C. and past president of the World Policy Institute. 
2:28 a.m. A University employee reponed 
that his car had been vandalized while parked in the D-1 Lot sometime between 4 p.m. on 11/4 and 12:30 a.m. on 11/5. His loss is estimated at $200. 
2:33 a.m. A Michigan City resident reported that his jeep had been vandalized while parked in the Center for Continuing &lucation Lot sometime between 9:45 p.m. on 11/4 and 12:58 a.m. on 11/5. Damage is estimated at $150. 
3 p.m. Notre Dame Security responded to the report of bomb outside the football stadium at 7:36 a.m. 
9:43 p.m. A resident of Massachusetts was cited by Notre Dame Security for traveling 45 mph in a posted 25 mph zone on Juniper Road. 
SUNDAY, NOV. 6 
I:30 a.m. Notre Dame Security cited a South Bend resident for traveling 58 mph in a posted 30 mph zone on Douglas Road. 
2 a.m. An employee of the university reponed the theft of a poned palm tree from the Oak Room at approximately I :57 a.m. The loss is estimated at $30. 
2: I 0 a.m. A Farley Hall resident was struck by a car while crossing Juniper Road. The victim was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center. 
8:02 p.m. A resident of Morrissey Hall reponed that the door to his room had been vandalized sometime between 10:30 p.m. on 11/5 and I :30 a.m. on I t/6. 
MONDAY, NOV. 7 
2 a.m. The assistant rector of Cavanaugh Hall reported the vandalism of university property. Fourteen window panes were broken with a replacement cost of $140. 
2:25 p.m. Notre Dame Security confiscated football tickets from several persons trying to seU them in excess of face value. 

Position available. Immediate opening. Inquire within. 
--.,.
,I 

--~--[\~·-. 
----~ 
I 
·. ·.J 
lni. not an euy llle. In piKes lrclm O.lca801o ......... dah,JOU"U.....,Ihepoorand rich, the •led and JOUnl. the educated and ull<!ducated. The life demanda prayer. hard ..,..k and vlllon. The rewarda are 1rea1...even Ia this IUe. You will h.ve opportunities 10 develop your polentlal. You wUI con· tlnue lhe ...,k ol O.rlst. sbare His mlaaloa and respond to .....,W needs. There II no toy In this .....,Wto compare with thai. 
By the witness ol our lives. BrotheR serve In; Miaalona, Education. Social, Pastoral. Health Care. Youth and Retreat Work. Farml01. Maintenance and other trades and prola· slo111 that help to stren1then Christian Community. 
For more inlormatlon. Contact: Brolher Don Gibbs. C.S.C. P.O.Bao460 Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 211/ZJ3-21il 

·~, J HOLYCROSS 


BROTHERS$ 


AP photo

Bush and granddaughter 
Presidential hopeful George Bush and his in Colorado Springs, Colo. granddaugh~r Lauren wave to supporters at a rally 

Kennedy expert to talk at SMC 
By JOANNA GRILLO 
News Staff 
An upcoming visit by John F. Kennedy expert John Gordon was the focus of the Saint Mary's Programming Board meeting Monday night. Gordon will be visiting the college on November 21, on the eve of the 25th anniversary of Kennedy's assassination. 
"We are quite fortunate to have him here. He chose to come to Saint Mary's, and I think his speech will give us some new insight on the Ken­nedy assassination," said Lisa Hill, Vice President for student affairs. 
According to Hill, talk speech will include a slide presenta­tion and informative literature. 
"Gordon i$ an expert on events leading up to and the as­sassination," said Hill. 
Other topics of interest in­clude the tentative visit of 
RESPECT ... YOU KNOW IT DON'T COME EASY 
•I.QI ' 
WE HAD TO EARN OURS. WiTH ALL THE FLY BY NIGHT. HOCUS POCUS. DO-IT-YOURSELF "REVIEW" PROGRAMS. ISN'T IT GOOD TO KNOW THERE's CONVISER DUFFY Q MILLER CPA REVIEW? OuR COMPREHENSIVE TEXTS REPRESENT AN INTEGRAL PART Qf OUR HIGHLY RESPECTED PROGRAM. RESPECTED 
ENOUGH TO BE INCORPORATED AS PART OF THE EDUCATIONAL CURRICULUM AT MAJOR UNIVERSITIES THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY. IN FACT. THE SEPTEMBER ISSUE OF THE "NEW ACCOUNTANT.. MAGAZINE RATED UNI· VERSITIES ACCORDING TO PASS RATES. THREE OF THE TOP TEN SCHOOLS IN THE SURVEY USE THE CONVISER DUFFY 8 MILLER CPA REVIEW PROGRAM. THAT's RIGHT. THREE OF THE TOO TEN! PLEASE PHONE US TO FIND OUT HOW YOU CAN JOIN THE OVER 75% OF OUR STUDENTS EACH YEAR THAT CAN PROUDLY ADD THREE MORE INITIALS AFTER THEIR NAME. C.P.A. AT CONVISER DuFFY 8 MILLER. WE'RE OUT TO EARN YOUR RESPECT.. 

LIVE~ COMPREHENSIVE r:s00-274-EXAM 
Gwendolyn Brooks, Pulitzer Also announced was dorm Prize winning poet. Student picture night, which is set for Government is in the process November 9. Students are en­of negotiating a future date and couraged to participate and time for Brooks' visit to further information is located 

THEOLOGY 287: "World Religions and Catholicism" was inadvertently left off the checkmarked list for the spring Semester 1989. It is checkmarked; enrollment only through the Theology Department. 




IKAPLAN 
5TAJU1Y H. KAPlAN lDIKATIOfW aNTER LTD. 
-IMPORTANT NOTICE­(Good News!!) 
A second LSAT prep co~~~>for-:the 10/l/88 test will be starting at the Kaplan Center immediately. If you were unable to enroll or if you are a transfer from another Kaplan Center and were not able to get a seat in Class I, please call the South Bend Kaplan Center right away for class dates and times. You will have the same instructor. Please do not delay if you want a seat in Class II. We regret any inconvenience caused due to increased demand for our LSA T prep course for the 10/l/88 test. 
Kaplan Educational Center 1717 E. South Bend Avenue South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 


Tuesday, November 8, 1988 ELECTION '88 pa_ge 5 
•

Bayh, Mutz close 1n polls
Election 
Associated Press tacted by university research­He said the results indicate

information 
ers. that Mutz could make it a close 
Polls 
Notre Dame students may vote from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. in Stepan 
Center and Saint Mary's students may vote in the Augusta Hall 
dining room. 
Federal offices 
President: Republican George Bush, Democrat Michael Dukakis 
and New Alliance candidate Lenora Fulani are on the Indiana 
ballot. 
U.S. 
Senate: incumbent Republican Richard Lugar vs. Democrat"~~, Jack Wickes. ' 

U.S. 
House: incumbent Republican John Hiler vs. Democrat Thomas Ward 


State offices Governor: Republican Lt. Gov. John Mutz vs. Democratic Sec­retary of State Evan Bayh. · Attorney General: Republican incumbent Linley Pearson vs. Democrat John Rumple. Superintendent of Public Instruction: Republican incumbent Dean Evans vs. Democrat Mary Pettersen. State Senate: There is no state senate race involving Notre Dame voters. 
State House of Representatives: Notre Dame students have a choice between Democrat incumbent B. Patrick Bauer and Re­publican Sylvia Sheldon and and Democratic incumbent Thomas Kromkowski and Republican Terry Wallace .. Saint Mary's students may vote for either Republican Mary Hunt or Democratic incumbent Michael Dvorak. 
Referendums Proposition 1: a yes or no vote to repeal the state's constitutional ban on lotteries. 
Proposition 2: a yes or no vote to change from 1 0 years to 50 years the length of a criminal sentence in a case that can auto­matically be appealed directly to the state Supreme Court. 
Proposition 3: a yes or no vote to permit county elected officials to serve more than two consecutive terms. 
Judical retention Supreme Court: yes or no votes to retain Chief Justice Randall Shepard and Associate Justice Brent Dickson for 1 0-year terms. Tax Court: a yes or no vote to retain Judge Thomas Fisher for a 1 0-year term. 

10-6 

MON-SAT 
1513 MIAMI ST. SOUTH BEND. IN. 46613 219-288-5051 

• COMICS BOUGHT AND SOLD. 
•DIRECT 
SHIPMENT COMICS. 

•SCIENCE 
FICTION PAPERBACKS. 

•COMIC 
BAGS AND BOJCES. 


Republican John Mutz and Democrat Evan Bayh dashed toward the finish line of their marathon campaign for gover­nor Monday as a new poll showed the race could be close. 
Mutz, bringing a two-year campaign to a close, claimed he was gaining momentum while Bayh remained confident he would hold the advantage he has enjoyed since the first public opinion polls were taken in the race. 
The latest poll released on Monday showed Bayh favored by 50.1 percent and Mutz by 
46.3 percent among those who said they will vote. when con-


Election 
continued from page 1 
tlety. 
Democratic vice presidential candidate Lloyd Bentsen ap­peared on stage in Texas with a caged quail-an obvious dig at his Republican rival, Dan Quayle. 
Bush threw a stinging jab at Dukakis, saying, "We don't want to return to my opponent's favorite song: 'for all you do, this recession is for you.'" 
Dukakis campaigned without letup on his pledge to stand up for "average working families." Grabbing rest when he could on his plane, he flew to a sunrise political service in Cleveland, then a rally in St. Louis, where he was greeted by a band playing "Rock Around the Clock." Still to come was more campaigning on the West Coast and then another middle­of-the-night flight to an Iowa rally and election-morning ap­pearances in Michigan. 
"I don't need sleep, I'm 
charging," he said in Ohio. 
"We're going to win," he added, 
predicting a "November 
surprise" that would land him 
in the White House. 
The polls said otherwise, and 
few outside the Dukakis inner 
circle raised their voice to dis­
agree. Pollster Lou Harris was 
one. He said Bush's margin was 
shrinking steadily. 
S.U.B. & THEODORE'S PRESENT: A COMEDY JAM 
HOSTED BY KEVIN MATTHEWS THE LOOP'S AM 1000 DJ IN CHICAGO 
FEATURING ED FIALA as seen on the Tonight show and HBO with special guest Anthony Griffin 


9:00PM Thurs., Nov. 10 at THEODORE'S FREE ADMISSION WI ND!SMC ID 
The full sample of 1,069 regis­tered voters contacted last Thursday through Saturday by the Public Opinion Laboratory at Indiana University-Purdue University at Indianapolis gave Bayh a 47.8 percent to 36.9 percent lead. 
However, the margin nar­rowed when the poll was con­fined to the 87 percent of those surveyed who said they definitely intended to vote, said Brian V argus, director of the poll. 
The survey's margin of error was plus or minus 3.2 percent, Vargus said. 
race if turnout is low and sizable numbers of Republicans don't defect from the party to support Bayh. 
The survey is unique in In­diana because it is conducted by telephoning the same group of voters interviewed by the public opinion laboratory in Oc­tober. At that time, Bayh en­joyed a 45.2 to 31.8 lead among all questioned and a 45.5 to 34.2 advantage among those likely to vote. 
An Indianapolis Star poll published Oct. 30 gave Bayh a 14-point lead and a Fort Wayne Journal-Gazette poll printed Sunday put the margin at 12 points. 

The other late soundings gave Bush an edge, but by differing amounts. Gallup made it 11 points for the vice president. CBS said it was six. Both said there was an unusual potential for late shifts of opinion. Whatever the national sound­ing, most surveys made his ad­vantage in the Electoral Col­lege handsome, indeed. 
The Associated Press' tabula­tion showed Bush ahead in states with 356 electoral votes, although he could not count securely on the 270 needed for victory. 



ELECTION BRIEFS 
Maryland voters decide today whether to keep that 
state's pioneering new law effectively banning cheap 
handguns. Both sides predict the outcome could affect gun control legislation pending in states across the country. Also at issue on ballots around the nation are such issues as abortion, car insurance, lotteries and 
language. Pro-gun lobbyists have spent more than $4 million on Maryland's ballot issue, making it the most expensive campaign of any kind in the state. 
.-Associated Press 
Polls show George Bush concluded his campaign Monday by maintaining his months-old lead over Michael Dukakis, but his margin varied from four points in one survey to 11 in another. A CBS news poll found the race tightening somewhat, with Bush's lead slipping from nine points to six. A Harris poll said Dukakis had closed to within four, while Gallup found Bush solidly ahead. Twenty percent of the people in Gallup's final pre-election poll were undecided or said they could change their minds, easily enough to alter the outcome in the many key states where the election was close. -Associated Press 
Voting boothsin Connecticut, Kentucky, Ohio and 
Vermont close early and could provide the answer to 
the year-long presidential campaign. The winner could 
be know.n early if Republican George Bush is making a 
strong showing. But if Democrat Michael Dukakis is 
doing well, it could be a long night with the outcome 
dependent on returns from the West Coast. -Associated 
Press 
What CanAn MBA Degree 
Do For You? 
T · H · E 



OHIO 

SfA1E 
UNIVERSITY 

An MBA degree from Ohio State can bring you greater opponunities, income, and career challenges. Our nationally recognized MBA program 

~ 
offers merit-based financial aid and has no prerequisites. We enroll both business and nonbusiness majors. And many of our graduates have gone on to jobs with established leaders like IBM, Goldman Sachs, AT&T, and Procter & Gamble. For a free brochure about our programs, please write or call: 
Director, MBA Programs The Ohio State University 
112 Hagerty Hall 
1775 College Road Columbus, OH 43210-1399 614-292-8511 

~---=--------­
page 6 Tuesday, Novembe' 8, 1900
Vie w p0 int 
............................................................................ 



P.O. Box Q 
Who will take blame for Bush ticket affair? 
Dear Editor: 
As this wretched political season lurches to a close, all of us have much to regret. We should all regret that the enormous issues that face our nation have gone undebated. We are no clearer now as a polity on what to do about the national debt, junk bonds, ghetto poverty, Gorbachev, or mass starvation in Africa than we were a year ago. 
We should all regret that the candi­dates have become the playthings of their campaign advisors. Roger Ailes and John Sasso have been more central to the campaign than have either Bush or Dukakis. We should regret that we have an elective process that drives away so many able people and that brings out the worst in the survivors. Bush and Dukakis may have had many fine hours in their lives, but those hours surely have not occured in the past six months. 
Most of all, however, we should regret that we as a political community have been so degraded. That the fact of Willie Horton has figured so prominently in the campaign speaks volumes for how mindless the "debate" over crime control has become--as if a redoubling of our prison population, or a resort to large-scale execution prac­tices, could really recommend itself to an informed citizenry as the solution to the problem of violent crime. 
Even here at Notre Dame, the rot that corrupts American political life is now evident. Last week Notre Dame played host to the vice president in hope that he would use his visit to this "hal­lowed" place to reflect on the basic philosophical differences between him­self and Governor Dukakis. I will let those who heard or read his address decide for themselves how successful 
he was in that regard. I wish to focus my efforts here on what appears to have happened within this community in anticipation of the vice president's visit. 
It now appears that some local Bush partisans deliberately exploited an ill­advised shift in the timing of the distri­bution of tickets to the speech to pack the hall with students sympathetic to the Republican side of the Great Divide that the vice president sketched in his talk. No great malice was involved in this, and no great harm was done. But 
Doonesbury 
surely it was wrong to conspire to pack 
the hall: common decency and an 
elemental sense of fairness both coun­
sel that everyone on campus, regard­
less of his or her political sympathies, 
should have had an equal opportunity 
to get to the speech; and the packing 
of the hall surely contributed to the 
circus atmosphere that surrounded the 
event and to the rancor expressed so 
vituperatively by one student and so 
eloquently by others. 

What the University administration 
has taken from the events of last week, 
I cannot say. Perhaps the University 
will simply distance itself from the 
idiocy of future political campaigns. 
What the rest of us should have learned 
is of more moment: how easy it is for 
us, in the heat of partisan rivalry, to 
rupture the bonds of trust that connect 
us to our fellows and to treat gross un­
fairness as a collective political coup. 
How adept we are at convincing our­
selves that our self-serving meanness 
is somehow something different from 
what it plainly is. 

Is is too much to hope that some, at 
least, of those responsible for the petty 
wrongs of ten days ago will step for­
ward and express regret for what was 
done? 

John Robinson Director, White Center on Law and Government Nov. 7, 1988 

ND Republicans libeled by scandal 
Dear Editor: 

I write this in an attempt to clarify rumors and misconceptions sllt"round­ing the Bush ticket distribution. Tom Ehrhardt and I began organizing for the Bush visit the Saturday before the event. One of the first things I did was call Chris Devron and John Hamill of student government to inform them that a flier which had been put out was misleading in two ways, and thus should not be distributed. I then at­tempted to call three members of Stu­dent Activities, but was unable to con­tact any of them (remember it was late afternoon on Saturday). 
The next afternoon, Sunday, the Bush campaign had a meeting with repre­sentatives of the University, including Mr. Conklin. At this meeting the early morning 8 a.m. distribution time was reiterated, not changed. Mr. Conklin agrees saying that "from the begin­
ning" tickets were to be distributed as 
early as possible. It was the Bush cam­
paign that informed the University of 
the misleading flier, and Mr. Conklin 
agreed it was indeed misleading. Mr. 
Conklin then made sincere attempts to 
notify the appropriate student repre­
sentatives. Therefore the slanderous 
charges that Tom or I or the campaign 
tried to manipulate the process in order 
to unfairly "pack" the crowd is com­
pletely baseless. In The Observer arti­
cle of Tuesday, Mr. Conklin goes on to 
say that "the whole scenario that there 
was a conspiracy is untrue." 
Sunday, 7 p.m., was the time of our 
first general m~eting. The chairman of 
the College Democrats tried to sneak 
into the meeting, and was therefore 
aware of the 8 a.m. distribution time. 
I also happen to know that the Dukakis 
campaign chairman on campus was 
called about the 8 a.m. distribution time 
directly after Mr. Conklin's meeting. 
This means that before 7 p.m. on the 
day before tickets were to be dis­
tributed, the College Democrats, the 
Dukakis campaign and other politically 
liberal organizations had the appropri­
ate information. 
There is no question that I believe it regrettable that the misleading flier was ever spread around, but I have detailed the steps I took to stop its dis­tribution. However, I believe it even more regrettable that members of cer­tain radical protest groups and others, even in student government, continue to spread disinformation concerning the BushQuayle campaign's activities in this matter. It has been printed and aired that my actions were unethical, or to quote Mr. Paese, "unfair and manipulative." I just hope the informed student can see the obvious sen­sationalism and partisanship behind such statements. 
I regret the fact that everyone who wanted to see the vice president could not; however, the main reason behind this problem was the inability to rent the Joyce ACC, which had two concerts previously booked. Therefore we were left with Stepan Center and 900 student seats. With a student body of over 8,000 it was inevitable that thousands would be disappointed or upset. In the end the "typical" Domer who was never made aware of the situation, should be more displeased with the protesters who used tickets with clear intent to disrupt the address, than with the Republicans on campus. The protesters who went in-
Garry Trudeau 
side and who were disruptive only took 
seats away from students who truly 
wanted to listen respectfully to our vice president. 
Matt Schlapp Co-Chairman Bush!Quay~e on Campus Nov. 7. 1988 


Administration exploited by Bush 
Dear Editor: 
As students of the University of Notre 
Dame, we wish to express the following 
to our administration. 
In our opinion, the name, stature, 
population, and resources of this Uni­
versity were manipulated by the cam­
paign of George Bush to his political 
advantage. We feel strongly that no po­
litical candidate, regardless of party 
preference, should ever be allowed to 
use Notre Dame in this way. 
We do not object to having candidates 
for office speak at Notre Dame. The 
White Center invited Mr. Bush to 
deliver a lecture as part of their lecture 
series on government and law. Instead 
of using this event as a unique oppor­
tunity to share the wealth of his political 
experience, Mr. Bush staged a self­
serving political rally. 
Through a combination of factors in­
cluding: distribution of tickets to en­
sure a strongly partisan crowd, pres­
ence of a pep band throughout the 
lecture, endorsement of other Republi­
can candidates, and photographs with 
the football team, Mr. Bush created the 
image that the University endorsed his 
candidacy for president of the United 
States. 
We hold the leaders of our University 
community accountable for not taking 
steps to prevent the manipulation of the 
University's name, or to dispel the no­
tion that the University endorses Mr. 
Bush. Thus, we express our disappoint­
ment in the University's handling of 
George Bush's visit and urge the ad­
ministration to take appropriate 
measures to avoid any candidate's ap­
propriation of the University of Notre 
Dame's name in the future. 
A petition expressing these feelings 
will be circulated through the dorms on 
campus this week and will be presented 
to Father Malloy on Friday. 
Michael Lee 
Brownson Hal.L 
Peter Morgan 
Alumni Hall 
Nov. 6, 1988 



Quote of the Day 
"If men and women of ca­pacity refuse to take part in politics and government, they condemn themselves, as well as the people, to the punishment of living under bad government." 
Sen. Sam J. Ervin 

-Ih~e-0-bse.~~er-­-­-----.L-=Y~ --·­ Editorial Board  Operations Board  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303  Ed1tor-~n-Ch1el Manag~ng Ed1tor  Chns Murphy Chns Oonnefly  Bus~ness Manager Advert1s~ng Oes1gn Manager  John Oxnder Moliy K11ien  
News Ed1tor  Reg1s Cocc1a  Advert1s~ng Manager  L1nda Goldschmidt  
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un,vers11y of  News Ed1tor  Mark Mclaughlin  ProduCtion Manager  Bernadene Shilts  
Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1n1 Mary's College  II does not necessanly reflect the pohc1es of  V1ewpo~nt Ed1tor  Man Slaughter  Systems Manager  Mark R1dgeway  
the adm1n1slral10n of e1ther 1nslllui10n  The news IS reported as accurately and obtecllvely as  Sports Ed1tor  Marty Strasen  Controller  Todd Hard1man  
poss1ble  Uns1gned ed1lonals represent the op1n1on of the ma,onty of the Ed1lonal Board  Accent Ed1tor  Beth Healy  Graph1c Arts Manager  Marga Bruns  
Commentanes. letters and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column  Samt Mary's Ed1tor  Sandy Cenmele  
space IS ava1lable to afl members of the community and the free express1on of vary1ng  Photo Ed1tor  Michael Moran  
op1n1ons on campus. through leiters. IS encouraged  Founded November 3,1966  

------~--------~------------~ 
- 
Accent 
Tuesday, November 8, 1988  page _7  





"Campus' Largest Family" 
DAVID MACK accent writer 

I 
n the northeast corner of campus, across from North Dining Hall, and in the eve­ning shadow of the Golden Dome, lies a haven for many of campus' unique features; In that spot lies Keenan Hall. It is a meeting place of the old and the new, as well as the traditional and the modern. 

l l 

Ask anyone who lives there, it is the only place on campus to live, because it is the only place that is easily called "home." Even the hall's namesake, James F. Keenan, who never lived there, said it would "provide a home away from home for generations of young men who choose Our Lady's school." 
The building itself was donated by James F. Keenan Sr. Keenan, a Notre Dame graduate from the class of 1913, donated the hall in memory of his son James F. Keenan Jr. The Keenan's, owners of a string of midwest hotels and members of the University Board of Trustees, saw their son tragically killed in a surfing accident at their summer home in 1941. 
The son, before his death, had recently graduated from a military academy, and was preparing to to enter the Uni­versity of Notre Dame as a freshman. On November 23, 1957 the new Keenan Hall was 
-.. ,,
-_-_-_-_---_::
::::~ 
l 

dedicated to his memory in a ceremony presided over by the then Archbishop of Philadelphia and former President of Notre Dame 
(1934-39) John F. O'Hara. Thus bringing the Keenan­Stanford complex into the University family. 
Presently, Keenan Hall houses over 300 undergradu­ate students under the careful guidance of Rector, Brother Bonaventure Scully. During the past summer it was fully renovated from its rather notorious, old image of a tenement hall. The rooms have been repainted, and the hallways sport new light fix­tures, new wallpaper (yes wallpaper), and even new carpeting. 
Yet even with all of the new beautifications, Keenan Hall, the youngest dorm other than the "Mod Quad" dorms, still possesses the traditional at­mosphere that many claim the Mod Quad lacks. 
The dorm isn't air condi­tioned, its rooms aren't car­peted, it even has an old, rickety elevator complete with grafiti. All of these tradi­tional dorm "qualities" though, are secondary to Keenan residents' overwhelm­ing spirit. 
Another secret is hidden 
beneath the rooms of the hall. 
Most people don't realize that 
Keenan Hall has the largest 
basement on the Notre Dame 
campus. It is complete with 
two televisions, two pool­
tables, two videogames; a 
library studyroom, a 
weightlifting room, a confer­
ence room, a music rehearsal 
room, and plenty of room to 
study, talk and lounge. Also 
in the basement is "Zaland" 
Not only is "Zaland" a five­
star foodsales establishment, 
but it was recently rated as 
one of the two best on 
campus. 
~·-­
The Observer I Mike Moran 
The weight room, just one the bonuses of Keenan Hall living. 
Calvin and Hobbes 
r--------------~ 
I GEl TO S\1>.'( ~01'-\£. I G£1 TO LIE IN BED, l 'fl\5\-\ I COULD l=RC*/1 SCHOOL TOO~'(. DR\N\( \B.. I ~ R£1>.D Do 1\-\\S EVER'( DA'(. Coiii\C 8001<5 f>..\.L DF>-'<. 
l 


All of this helps set Keenan apart, but the one thing that truly sets it above other dorms, is "The Keenan Revue." The famed Keenan Revue has been the single largest entertainment event on campus every year for over a decade. It is Keenan's unique gift to the Notre Dame I St. Mary's communities. The show itself is written, di­rected and acted by Keenanites, and is a product of the Keenan Knights' spirit and enthusiasm. 
Keenan Hall was the first dorm to have a study lounge and it has a famous mahogany crucifix sculpted by Ivan Mestrovic, in the chapel. It is as quiet or as noisy as any other dorm. It even got struck by lightning a month ago, but all of these things are just bits of trivia. 
There is something very special about Keenan Hall that goes beyond the bricks, the renovations and the activ­ities inside. It is the family spirit that exists there. When James F. Keenan Sr. called Kennan Hall a "home away from home," little did he know it would grow to house campus' largest family. 
ND Gets Taste 
of Italian Life 
KERRY COSTELLO accent writer 
'All roads lead to Rome." This is the theme of Expo 
Roma 1988, which will last until the end of next week. Expo Roma is an annual exhibition of the efforts of third-year architecture students from their studies in Rome last year. 

IEXPOROMAI 
According to Jose Pinto, a fourth-year architecture student, "This year's Expo Roma is one of the best so far. We worked hard--in Rome and also here. It took a long time to organize and set everything up for the exhibition." 
This year's show consists of many works such as watercolors, pencil and ink sketching, and urban proj­ects. Field trips provided the opportunity for special projects in Venice, Naples, Pompei and Sicily. 
Some of the urban works consist of twentieth century intervention, in historic context, in which the students compose an architectural plan for a section of a city, designing houses and buildings according to the per­sonalities of the people who would live there. Pinto believes that this is a highlight of the year, because it expresses the student's understanding of Italian culture and allows for personal interpretation and expression. 
The obelisk near South Dining Hall, he explained, resembles those brought from Egypt to Rome in ancient times. This year the architecture students imitated some of these and placed them strategically around campus, aligned with South Dining Hall, The Rockne Memorial and the Architecture Building. 
Preparations for Expo Roma 1988 took a month, primarily under the direction of Pinto and Ellen Rauth, so be sure not to miss this unique glimpse into italian culture and life. 
Tile Obeerwr I Mike lllonln Brian Rich, a sophomore, studies one of Expo 88's exhibits. 
-

Tuesday, November 8, 1988
page 8 The Observer 
~­
Lewis 
continued from page 12 
Lewis will face the surging Breen-Phillips Blitz in the championship game after edging Pasquerilla West 8-6 in Sunday's second game at Loftus. 
Kristy Alkidas set up the B-P touchdown in the first half with 35-yard run to the PW 10. After an incomplete pass, Alkidas ran the ball and dove over the goal line to put the Blitz up 6-0. 
Quarterback Teresa Coombs hit Shannon Thompson for the two-point conversion, to give the Blitz the edge would need. In the second half, PW scored but failed on the conversion, and Karen Marsh snared a key interception late in the game on the Blitz five to ensure the win. 
"We weren't sure we could win, but we knew we could play with them," said Jill Adamondis. "They beat us 13-0 early in the year, but now we're playing better. Our freshmen have gotten used to the system, and we're doing better." 
SMU 

~ontinued from page 12 
brand of soccer. They'll be prepared to play us." 
Notre Dame's path to the NCAA Tournament included a stop at the MCC Tournament in St. Louis where the Irish shocked the host Billikens Sun­day. The Irish also beat Evansville and Detroit (6-0) on their way to the title. 
"What you've got to keep in mind about the MCC Tourna­ment is that we're the team that played three days in a row and faced two of the top five teams in the country," said Grace. "We have a lot of con­fidence in ourselves, but we know that we must outwork people if we're going to win out there on the field. 
"If anything, we've made a bigger challenge for ourselves (by qualifying for the NCAA tournament). But this team has never been afraid of a chal­lenge." 
SIDEKICKS-A victory over SMU would result in a rematch of Sunday's MCC champion­ship game against Saint Louis, which received a first-round bye. 


Ifthe press didn't tell us,who \\QUid? 
lo j!.tl prmttd mlurmilll!lll un ttu· rule or o~lrcc pr~·~, 1nd hu11 11 prnterl' 1our rlj!hl~ or'" d"cu~' o1m rrn: f'ln."'' '"'Ut ullthc Ftf'>t -\mcndmenl l'cmcr o11 HiOU·.'i42·1fll){) 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 
3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The 
charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 



Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
································································ 
Matt "Schmear· Gallagher for VP 
Typing. Call P11t at 271-8116. Located 2 mi. north of Notre Dame. 

LOST/FOUND I 
HELP! Someone picked up my new L.l. Bean Flying Tiger leather jacket during lhe Halloween party at Senior Bar Sat. night. Any 1nfo call Mike at 287-5502 no questions asked. Ptease return it-it was my only warm jacket. 
LOST Ill ii~ii ;;;Y.PEUGEOT~~i~h i~ ·the pool room on Thursday 1Q.27 between 
2:30 and 4:00PM. It is gold and silver with a wh1te face and a moon dial. REWARD. No queslions call GREG 283-1653. 
............................................................ $$$$ REWARD $$ 20.00 $$ REWARD $$$$ 
Bookbag taken at South 01ning. 
DESPERATELY need 2 yellow spiral 
"Eiectrophys1cs" ntbks in there. Call 
Leurs 2817 or 2815. $$$$$$$$$ 20.00 
REWARD $$$$$$$$$$$ 
............... .. ....... ................ 
LOST: room keys w1th 202 on them on 
"KAL" key ring probably at BURNING 
HOUSE about SIX weeks ago ALSO 
LOST: blue Macro text ("Sly") call Sly at 
3122 1f you have 1nfo .. .. .. ························•······· Lost: PRESCRIPTION GLASSES on the way from Washington to North din1ng In peach case, glasses dark green (almost black) Please let ma know i found lheml Carrie X2724 
LOST AT CARTIER FIELD: ..;:;;;; i~~ ~ referee! If you found a set of lhree keys on a double key cha1n, please give me a call. My name IS on the back of lhe brass part. I'm fired of sleep-ing in the Grotto,my mail IS piling up, and !here's a virginily belt at O'Hara-Grace lhat needs to be un-locked. Two outa three wouldn't be bad! Reward: A large pizza. Rob If 2828 
LOST .J~~n jack~t _;,,th grey coll~r. L,.;;t seen 1n Semor Bar Coat Room on Fri. mght. If found.call Enk at 1208 
~_ro_R_R_Em
__~l 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219­291-7153. 
FOUR FLAGS FARM Bed 'n Breakfast just 20 mlna. from NO. Ideal for all NO actlvltlaa. Rea.ve now. 616-471-5711. 
Furnished Rooms & 2 Bedroom home neer Cllmpus.272-8306 
FURNISHED HOUSE CLOSE TO NO AVAILABLE NOW OR NEXT SEMES· TEA. 287-6389 OR 683-8889. 


WANTED 
SPRING BREAK TOUR PROMOTER­ESCORT Energetic person, (Mf'), to take algn-upa for our FLORIDA tours. We fumlah ell materiels for • succeu­ful PfOmotlon. Good PAY end FUN. Cell CAMPUS MARKETING Ill 1-800­
777-2270. 
STUDENT REPRESENTATIVE Apple Computer, Inc. Ia looking for • motlvllled, enthualutlc Individual to be • Student Rep,...,tllllve at Notre Dam11. Knowledge of Macintosh software products u -11 u owner­ship of • Maclntoah Ia desired. You should be a hahman, sophomore or junior end be merkllllng oriented. We requlrw 5-10 houre (a week) of your tlm11. You will help orvenlze •nd run eventa as well u put up poa111ra •nd dlatrtbute flyers. If you •re Interested, pleue call 312-31111-4903 end luve your name •nd • time you can be reechad. 
························-······································ 
SELL your TEXTBOOKS for $$$ Only 3 blocks from campus. Pandora's Books 808 Howard St. Just off N.O. Ave. Ph# 233-2342 
WANTED TO BUY-STERIO­RECEIVER,TAPE,CD,SPEAKERS. FAIR PRICE. CALL JEFF 18n 
ALASKA now hlrtng. Logging, const., fishing, nurses, teachers, etc. Excel­lent pay. For more lnfonnatlon call 206-748-7544 ext. A-415. 
RESORT HOTELS, Crufsellnea, Air­linea, & Amusement Parks, NOW ac­cepting applications for summer jobs Internships, and cai'BBr positions. For more Information and an application, wrtte National Collegiate Recreation Service, PO Box 8074, Hilton Head, SC 29938. 
PLEASE CALL SAM AT 239-6696 
Full Tlma Nanny 2 Young Children Professional Child Care Light House Wort.Organlzatlonal Skills Excellent Selary & Benefit Program Send Reaume To: Marlkay Cochran Deafgn Time P.O. Box 2027 Elkhart, IN 46515 


FOR SALE 
Is It True You can Buy Jeeps for $44 through the U.S. government? Get the facta today! Call 1-312-742-1142 Ext. 7316. 
TENNIS RACQUETS FOR SALE! TWO PRINCE SPECTRUMS PRE-STRUNG FOR $140-NICK# 1423 
880­
STON'BOSTON"BOSTON"BOSTON For sale: round trip plane tickels from Chicago to Boston for Thanksgiv­ing.Piease call Beth x3705 
FOR SALE WOMENS SKI JACKET & BIBS WITH 2 PENN STATE GA'S, ALL FOR $215. CALL TRICIA 284-521.1 
1980 Granada a1r. FM'AM, $1,000 2n­8752, aher 5 PM. 
FOR SALE: A HEWLETI-PACKARD 28S CALCULATOR BRAND NEW! GOOD PRICE 283-4364 

~~__T_IC_K_a~s~ 
NEED PENN STATE TIX--PLEASE CALL SHEfLA--271-9365 
Muffin is coming to NO finally but she needs a ticket for PENN STATE (either GA or student) Please call Beth x1264. 
we need PENN TIXII 2 GA's would be really nice. we'll pay a nice price. call waHer x2151 or michelle x2844 
Please give rna Penn St. GA'sl Okay, I'll pay good money for them, but I really need 2 GA.'s. Call Kathleen al 283-4220. 
I NEED PENN STATE TICKETS IN A BIG BAO WAY. ALL GA'S, ALL 20 OF THEM. THATS RIGHT-TWENTY. CALL BOOGER AT 287-5871 TODAY. CALL TODAY AND BE ENTERED TO WIN A FREE GINSU KNIFE SET-DON'T 
DELAY-CALL TODAY Ill 
NEED PENNST TICKETS CALL MIKE­1628 
My parents would love to see the II 1 IRISH pounce on Penn State. I NEED 2 GAs. Lisa. 233-6407. Thnx. 
NEED 1 STUD & 4 GAa(PENN ST) Melissa XZ707 
PLEASEI I need 1 PENN ST. stud. Call Kathy x3212 
I NEED PENN STATE TIXI PLEASE CALL II 2n1 ASAP! ASK FOR BETSY 
NEED 10 USC TICKETS CALL 284-5010 LEAVE MESSAGE NEED TWO (2) PENN ST. GA'S--MY DAD WILL PAY YOUR TUITION!! MIKE x1817 

NEED 2 PENN ST. TIX. $$CALL x2133. 
I NEED 4 PENN ST. GA's---will pay mucho dinero $$$$$$111 Please call Bob at x2321 and we'll talk! 
TOP $ FOR GOOD SO. CAL. SEATS. NEED 2-6. CALL KEVIN COLLECT AT 
(805) 948-1191. LEAVE MESSAGE. 
NEED PENN ST TIX TERRY 4013 
$$$$$$$$$$ IN ABSOLUTE DESPERATE NEED OF 2 PENN ST GA'S. CALL MIKE 3531 OR COME TO 320 KEENAN GOOD LUCK MICHAEL MESSAGLIA 
Pretty please with a CHERRY on lop (no pun, guys). I need four Penn St. GAs. Jeff x2377. 
Six Penn State GA's Best Offer by 11/t1Al8 CALL (616) 962-1664 
I need 6 Penn St. TIX, John x4364 
need at least 2 penn st. ga's chris at 1352. 
The respect of an older brother-isn't it wonderful? In order to retain my brolher's respect I need 2 PENN STATE tix!!l Have pily-3767 
This California Native Needs 4 USC Tix Please help out. If 1805 John 
Need 3 USC GAa please!! I Call Judy at 239-6515. Also need Penn St. GAa. 
$$$$$$ NEED PENN ST. GA'S CALL TASHA X4072 

Ready!! 
HELP HELP HELP NEED 2 PENN ST STUDS CALL BILL x4306 

Need Penn State tickets. student and GA. Jamie 1121 .......................... OHIO IRISH FAN NEEDS 3 TICKETS PENN STATE GAME. CALL COLLECT AFTER 5 PM 218-633-1072 FRANCIS. 
NEED 2 OR 3 USC TI)\.JIM 3371 
I need Penn St. GA's & student tickets. 271·8311 
I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S--DAN x4115 
I need Penn State studs-Kate X3874 
I NEED 1 USC TICKET PLEASE CALL BETH x3705 
................................. SEE 2 HOT VA. FRIENDS. SELL ME YOUR PENN STATE TIX. X5088 CHRISTINE 
HELP! NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'SII CALL 277-1513 
............................ PLEASE I NEED 4 TO 6 GAS FOR PENN $$ NO OBJECT PLEASE CALL DAVE AT X 227511 
I NEED PENN ST. GA'S ANO I WILL NOT STOP AT ANY COSTIIS$ PLEASE CALL ANDY AT 1930 OR JUUE AT 2791. 
I NEED 3 PENN ST TIXI X4002 CATHY. 
I NEED PENN STATE TIX STUD OR GA,--3 JIM 1935 
I Need 1 PENN ST Sludent Tik Please Call Alicia x3097 
····················· 

I NEED 2 PENN ST GA'S & 2 STUD call Mary If 2205 
HELP! I need 3 PennS!. tickets. CALL MARY X3782 ANYTIMEIII 
PLEASE! I NEED TWO PENN STATE STUD OR GA'S.$$$1 CALL COLLEEN x2882. Thanks! 
HELP! 2 Penn St. GAs are all I need Call Tina at x4846 
For Sale: round trip ticket from 58 IO USC 11121-11128 call 272-1992 
I NEED ONE PENN STATE GA OR STU­DENT STILL BAOL Y IN NEED OF 6 PENN ST TIX 4 GA & 2 STUD CALL 1767 
3 PENN ST. STUD TIX 4 SALE TOP OFFER BY FRIDAY NO OFFER, NO RESPONSEIII LEAVE MESSAGE AT X3201 
NO GIMMICKS.JUST CASH.! MUST GET 1 PENN ST. STUDENT TICK­ET.CALL STEVE AT X1603. 
······~··· 
................... NEED 10-12 GA's FOR PENN ST. SINGLES,PAIRS,ETC ... MARTY 1104 
I need PENN ST tix. please call BRIAN x2131 
I NEED 2 GA'S FOR PENN ST. CALL JO 284-4337 ASAP .......... .......... NEED 2 GA'S AND 1 STUD TIX FOR PENN ST. PLEASE CALL MB 284-5012 


PERSONALS 

N.D. CANDY Personalized Noire Dame, Green-White Taffy $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check to: MAIN EVENT. L.A. COLISEUM, 3911 S. FIGUEROA, L.A., CA90037. 213-741· 1338. 
$$$$$ PENN STATE TIX WANTED GA OR STUD TIX CALL 234-1 048 .... jen. 
hi ag. .......... ................ . WHERE WERE THEY LAST YEAR? WHAT DO THEY DO? COME SEE...EXPO ROMA'88 
"EFFECTIVE RESUMES" PRESENTED BY KITTY ARNOLD OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES, TODAY, 4:00 P.M. IN THE NOTRE DAME ROOM, LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER. ALL STUDENTS WELCOME. REPEATED ON THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, SAME PLACE AT 6:30 P.M. 
"EFFECTIVE RESUMES" PRESENTED BY KITTY ARNOLD OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SEA· VICES, TODAY, 4:00 P.M. IN THE NOTRE DAME ROOM, LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER. REPEATED ON THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, SAME PLACE AT 6:30 P.M. 
before long a female student will be se­lected lo represent NO at thhe bowl game. let's not embarrass NO again.let's pick someone with a little claSs who knows something about the Irish. ................................................................ CLUB 23 Stop by for dinner or drinks with friends lhis week. 
THANK YOU ST. ANTHONY 
LIES! 
Vote Republican It's easler than thinking. 

·················································•·············· 
Don't Buy the Bush Uel 
................................................................ 
I need a ride to LOUISVILLE for Thanks­giving. Leave early Tuesday, Nov. 22. Name terms. Call T.J. al 11 3810 ............................ Does anyone have access lo 2 USC tick­ets? or know of any possible sources? Please call Susan 283-4266 
••• LONG ISLAND STUDENTS ... Don't go home for X-mas by plane. Take the Bus From Helllll About $80 round trip. Fliers will be mailed soon. ONLY OORKS FLY! LOU (x1433) 
Happy.21st Birthday 

SARAH MCCUENIIIII So what if we were all legal before you? Everybody knows the BEST is always saved for LAST! You are the "sunset" of our Italian-loving lives! Hope your day's great. We love you! L,G,M. 
UNIV PIZZA DLVY 277::aii89"""""" .. 
HEY SENIORS ... Jingle Bell, Jingle Bell Going lo an SYR is. hell. You and I, we both know thet, 
The Christmas Formal is where it's at. 
Be sure to sign-up before you leave for Thanksgiving... HO 
HO HO 
Christmas Formal... Christmas Formal ... 
Christmas Formal ... 
Be thhere on Dec. 2 
KEEP AMERICA SAFE!!! Support Gun Control For more information about rally on Sunday call 287-1711 
SENIORSIII THE SKI TRIP IS COMING. Hot Tubs, Slopes. ann Port;A•·Get 
MATH TUTOR-234-3878. 
NEED RIDE to North. NEW JERSEY for Thanksgiving. Can leave anytime from Tues 1W2 on. Call Chris 
X 2773 
The fact that someone is or may someday become homeless does not give one the right lo kill them. Ralionalize till you're blue in the face ... 
Abortion is MURDER Period. 
F5COMEDY JAM 
F5COMEDY JAM 
F5COMEDY JAM 
F5COMEDY JAM Thurs. Nov. 10 at 9pm in Theo's FREE FREE FREE w-ND or SMC ID 
Jules and Barb, "Men, WHY?" "I have the fan aiming at my bed because I'm always hot..." What. the spoon? This whole nighl it was SO weird! I hope th1s made you smile. and I promise to get real pajamas sooni Love Staph 
Lew1s foolball thanks our fans and fnends who cheered us on last Sunday! Just one more for # 1-Go Lewis Beat BP! 
Tough game, Lewis. Good luck in the finals. Smear the black stuff all over the field. 
HEY LADIES 
LOOKING FOR TALL,DARK, & HAND­
SOME? 
CALL 3287 AND ASK FOR 
DEVON MCDONALD 
& DON'T FORGET TO SAY HAPPY B­
DAYI 
2 DATES NEEDED FOR THE "WHAT IS THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATION­SHIP?" SEMINAR THIS SAT. CALL MIKE AND RICK AT X3305. WE THANK U FER YER SUPPORT. 
Anyone have PITTBUS info? call Kerry x5198 
Need ride lo PA TURNPIKE exit If 4 for break. call Shelly x5198 
FATHER THOMAS-SAN: This is your surprise for lhe week! Don't forgel ERES LO MAXIMO and don't get too hung up on Simone Well. See ya in BG soon. Love, Elvira 
What's so special about today? The elec­tions? Actually, it's JEANNE WONG'S BIRTHDAY! Have a good one, Jeanne! 
Love, Julie, Rosi, Suzanne, Julie, Melis­. sa. Asako, and Patty 
................................................. 
LAURA the Dough Boy, I figured you 
would slop by since you know where 1 
live. Please do so or write here. 
·The Flasher 
P.S. You can keep my wallet. 
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES! THE PROOFS FROM THE FORMAL HAVE ARRIVED!! COME TOTHE CLASS OFFICE ON 2ND FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE DURING OF­FICE HOURS TO BUY PICTURES TIL NOV 11 OH-SWEET MEMORIES! 
FOR SALE: USC TRIP TfXI BEST OF­FER! CALL MISSY 284-4381 
The only thing scarier than "President Quayle" is "President Oukakis." 
CLUB TUESDAY featuring campus en­tertainers SHELIA O'DONNELL, MIKE O'CONNELL and TROY TRIBODEAUX Tues 8:30-11 Haggar Parlor SMC free Don't want to watch election returns? Come lo CLUB TUESDAY 8:30-11 Hag· gar Parlor SMC Campus Enter-tainers, free food & election updates. 

FARLEY'S ANEST: Thenka for a wonderful experience! Let's not let the rough ending spoil the fun we hadI 
The coachea. 

SHELIA O'DONNEL, MIKE O'CONNELL AND TROY TRIBODEAUX at Club Tues­day to nite. 8:30·11 Haggar Parlor SMC, 
WANTED: A "REAL VIXON" TO AC­COMPANY PAPERBOY TO SYR FRIDAY. SEND APPLICATIONS TO PAT, C{) ALUMNI HALL 
DEAR JEFF-I'M SO PROUD OF YOU FOR TELLING OFF BUSH AND I BRAG TO EVERYONE THAT I KNOW YOU! LET'S KICK THOSE CONSERVATIVES' BUTTS AND STOP THE LIES! LOVE & ANARCHY­
KIRSTEN 

........................... TOP 10 REASONS TO WISH MAURA CLARKE 
A HAPPY BIRTHDAY 10 SHE SPELLS HER LAST NAME WRONG 9 SHE TAUGHT US THE EUGEN!; DANCE 8 FEEL SORRY FOR HER SHE'S ONLY 19 7 SHE'S NOT GOING TO WILFRED BEAUTY 
ACADEMY 6 SHE "GIVES IN EASY" 5 SHE'S IRISH 4 BC PENELOPE HAS CURLS THAT 
JUST WON'T QUIT 3 MARK IS GIVING HER A JAGUAR 
THAT WE CAN USE 2 SHE GREW UP WITH JOHNNY O'HARA 1 SHE'S THE BEST FRIEND WE COULD 
EVER ASK FOR! 
THE MOST IMPORTANT FILM YOU WILL SEE THIS YEAR... CRY OF .lEASON THURS. 11/tO 8:00 PM at CSC 

CHOICES AND CHALLENGES FOR AN EMERGING LAY LEADERSHIP WED.-NOV.9-7:30 PM PE. CHAPEL With Fr. Michael Himes Dr. Dons Donelly ALL ARE WELCOME 
DO YOU KNOW that a h1gh percent of the homeless are children, some with­out parents. Many grow up 10 turn to crime. Who else will lake care of them? 
You know Reagan cut funding for the homeless drastically. THINK AGAIN-VOTE DEMOCRAT 
"'NEEDED" 

Ride ta1rom St. Louis, weekend of Nov. 11-13. Will share expenses & driving. Call Kathy x3781 
TO: the pretty redhead weanng a while CORNELL sweatshirt with red letters, who was studying on the 2nd Floor of !he 'brare 
Sunday ahernoon. PS You leh IIIith a blue NO backpack and green vesl. Are you busy this weekend? -lnteresled 

·Carolyn, Eddie, Agnes, Darrin-Thanks so much for everything. You guys are great! 
Love ya, Amy 
...................... 

CHRIS-WHAT EVER HAPPENED TO PETE THE CHOP? DAVE 
Can anyone give me a ride to Cincinnati tor Thanksgiving Break? Please call Jen­nifer at x2128. 
MIKE C. I HOPE YOU DON'T FORGET ABOUT YOUR BIRTHDAY WITH ALL THIS WORK YOU'RE DOING--· BE­CAUSE I SURE DIDN'T FORGET! I HOPE THIS BIRTHDAY IS LESS STRESSFUL THAN LAST--WE BOTH KNOW HOW BAD OUR BIRTHDAYS USUALLY AREIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
HAVE A GREAT DAY HAPPY BIRTHDAY! LOVE A. . .......................................... . "Stan the Beracuda." Kreher and Judge 
Tuesday, November 8, 1988 The Observer page 9 
USC gains ground, but Irish still No. 1 
Associated Press 
Notre Dame remained No.1 in the Associated Press Top Twenty football poll following a 54-11 victory over winless Rice, receiving 42 of 59 first­place votes and 1,160 of a pos­sible 1,180 points from a nation­wide panel of sportswriters and sportscasters. 
Second-ranked Southern Cal­ifornia, which trounced Cali­fornia 35-3, gained some ground on the Irish. The Trojans, who host Notre Dame on Nov. 26, received 15 first­place votes and 1,122 points. 
Last week, with 58 members of the 60-man panel participat­ing, Notre Dame led 44-11 in first-place ballots and 1,144­1,097 in points. 
Third-ranked Miami and No. 
4 West Virginia each received one first-place vote. The Hur­ricanes, who beat Tulsa 34-3, had 1,065 points while the Mountaineers, who routed Cin­cinnati 51-13, had 979. 
Rounding out the Top Ten are Florida State, UCLA, Nebras­ka, Oklahoma, Auburn and Wyoming. 
The Second Ten consists of Arkansas, LSU, Michigan, Oklahoma State, Syracuse, Clemson, Georgia, Alabama, Colorado and Washington State. 
Last week, it was Arkansas, 
Oklahoma State, LSU, Mic­
higan, South Carolina, 
Syracuse, Clemson, Alabama and Georgia, with Brigham Young and Indiana tied for 20th. 
..................+; 
+ COACH'S •• 
Accepting applications for cooks, busers, kitchen help. 
i 
Benefits include PAID vacations. PART TIME 8-20 hrs.lwk. • 
i
•i 
FULL TIME 40¢ hrs.lwk. 
• 2046 South Bend Ave. • 277-7678 
t..................: 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
TheSynchronizedSwimClubisholding practices on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7 
p.m. to 8 p.m. and on Sundays from 11: 15 a.m. to 12:15 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Everyone is welcome. Any questions should be directed to Tara at x3867, Katie at x2646 or Ann at x1294. -The Observer 
The ND Sailing Club will hold a meeting tonight at 6:30 in room 204 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. The team placed third last weekend at Area A Eliminations at the University of Mic­higan to qualify for the Timme Angsten Regat­ta, which will be held over Thanksgiving at Chicago Yacht Club. -Associated Press 
lnterhall football equipment return will take place today at gate 10 of the stadium for the following teams: Off-Campus at 6, Zahm at 6:20, Sorin at 6:40, St. Ed's at 7, Pangborn at 7:20, Morrissey at 7:40, Keenan at 8 and Holy Cross at 8:20. A $5 late fee will be as­sessed to each player that returns equipment sets after the hall's designated date. -The Ob­server 
The Houston Oilers took a 21-3 lead and held on to defeat the Cleveland Browns 24-17 at the Houston Astrodome on Monday Night Football. -The Observer 
lrishlnsanitywillholdameetingWednesday at 8 p.m. in the Reynolds Room on the third floor of LaFortune. Activities for basketball and hockey seasons will be discussed. All are welcome. -The Observer 
Sugar Ray Leonard knocked out Donny Lalonde in the ninth round Monday to win the WBC light heavyweight title and super ~id­dleweight crown. Leonard now has won ftve major titles during his career. -The Observer 
WVFI-640AMwillair''SpeakingofSports'' tonight at 10. Join Greg Guffey and Steve Trep­piccione as they welcome Irish hockey players Bruce Guay, Brian Montgomery and Mark O'Sullivan. Calls are welcomed at 239-6400. ­
The Observer 

The NO-Penn State football game will be telecast by CBS-TV on Nov. 19 as part of a national college football doubleheader. The Irish game will air from Notre Dame Stadium at noon EST, followed by the Nebraska­Oklahoma game at 3:30 EST. -Associated Press 
An SMC intramural racquetball doubles tournament for all Saint Mary's stu­dents, faculty and staff will have its entry deadline at 5p.m. Thursday at Angela Athletic Facility. Participants will schedule matches on their own following the timeline estab­lished. For more information, call 284-5549. 
-The Observer 
An SMC coed wallyball tournament will be held Friday and Saturday. Teams con­sist of two females and two males. The entry deadline is Wednesday at 5 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. Call 284-5549 for more infor­mation. -The Observer 
An NVA scuba meeting will be held Wednesday. The brief informational meeting will be at the Rockne Memorial room 218 at 6:30p.m. Classes will start the following Sun­day. -The Observer 
In baseball managerial announcements Monday, former Houston Astro Art Howe was named as the new manager of that club, and the Seattle Mariners hired Jim Lef~bvre, who had been working as hitting instructor and third base coach for the Oakland Athletics. In other managerial news, Tommy Lasorda was named the Associated Press Manager of the Year for directing the Los Angeles Dodgers to the World Series title. -Associated Press 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer of­fices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 





Makethe crashof'29lookgood. 
With a MacintoshNcomputer you can make 
anything look good. Whether you're working on a 
term paper, thesis paper or an imiJ9rtant presentation. 
· Because with prog~werPoint and Cricket Graph,whether youre drawing charts or . ing conclusions, you can combine-text and graphics to illustrate your ideas like they've never been illus­trated before. And shed new light on heavy subjects. 
That's just one example of how Macintosh helps students work smarter, quicker and more crea­tively. And the beauty ofMacintosh is, you don't have to know diddley about computers to use one. 
The point being, Macintosh can make alot of things look good. Including you. 
• ®The powerto be your besf 

Computer Center Room 25 Math Building 8:00AM-5:00PM 
-
page 10 The Observer Tuesday, November 8, 1988 

Irish finish inaugural season 
It's Dillon, Stanford 
Women's soccer loses to MSU, sports 13-6-1 final mark 


in IH football finals 
By COLLEEN HENNESSEY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team played the final game of its first varsity season last Friday and came out with mixed results. The The Irish lost 3-0 at Mic­higan State and ended their successful year with a record of 13-6-1. The women were un­defeated at home and out­scored their opponents by a total of 53-23. 
"Michigan State is the kind of team we'll be playing next season," said Irish assistant coach Neil Schmidt. "It is both good and bad to end with that kind of team--good for the ex­perience but bad for the loss." 

Schmidt stressed that Mic­higan State had been ranked in the top 20 several weeks ago, and he praised the Irish for their high quality of play under bad weather conditions and against such an established op­ponent. 
"The score was 1-0 at halftime," said Schmidt. "We applied a lot of offensive pres­sure and thought it maybe should have been tied at the half. 
"They came out frustrated and physical in the second half because they had thought they were going to walk all over us," Schmidt continued. "We hung in there with them, but we didn't have quite as much of an offensive push in the second half." 
Despite the loss, Schmidt is enthusiastic about the team. 
"It has been a very success­ful season," he said. "Look at our record--not many first-year teams can say they did that well . .'' 
Junior K.T. Sullivan, who played two years of varsity soc­cer at Canisus College before transferring to Notre Dame this fall, is pleased with the year's results as well. 
"We had a great season," she said. "We worked really hard, and it is impressive that we did so well for a beginning pro­gram." 


ND tennis meets top-flight foes 
By CHRIS COONEY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team displayed its in­creasing improvement last weekend with excellence per­formances against nationally­ranked teams at the Rice Ten­nis Classic in Houston, Tex. 
The Irish faced No. 14 SMU, No. 19 Texas, No. 22 Texas A&M and No. 25 TCU as well as Rice, Houston, and LSU. The tournament was flighted so that members competed in in­dividual tournaments at their own positions. 
CeCe Cahill was the runner­up in the number-one singles spot. She lost to Diana Merritt 6-0, 6-0 in a championship match loaded with long rallies. Merritt is ranked 25th in the 

current  national  collegiate  
polls.  
"CeCe  played consistently  

throughout the weekend," said coach Michele Gelfman. "The score of the final was not at all indicative of the intense level of play." 
Cahill was pleased with her performance, particularly be­cause this was her first outdoor meet in two months. 
"I was happy because I knew it was going to be windy and I adjusted well," Cahill com­mented. "In the final, I was in every point and although I would have liked to have done better, I was pleased with the tournament as a whole. It was great exposure, playing all the 
top Texas schools." 

Cahill defeated Claire Ses­sions of SMU 7-5, 6-3 and Stina Ulmgren of Houston 6-4, 2-6, 6-3 to reach the finals. 
Other players also fared well at the tournament. In the third singles slot, freshman Tracy Barton took third place, beating Cindy Crawford of Texas A&M 6-2, 7-6 (7-5) in the deciding match. 
Two other freshmen, No. 6 Ann Bradshaw and No. 7 Tyler Musleh, both upset Chrissie Tee of TCU. Tee was the No. 1 seed at her position. Bradshaw won 6-2, 1-6, 6-2 to finish fourth in her draw. Musleh, bouncing back after a disappointing 
CALL TO PEACEMAKING 
Tuesday, November 8 
"PROGNOSIS FOR PEACE" Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., 12:00 Noon at the CSC, Election Day! 
Wednesday, November 9 
"ELECTION POST MORTEM: WHERE DO WE GO FROM HERE?" SHelly Douglass, Chairperson of the Fellowship of Reconciliation, 6:15P.M. at the CSC. Sponsored by GILA. DEBATE ON THE PALESTINIAN UPRISING With N.D. scholars, Yehuda Kovacs and Edna Hidekel from Israel and Zoughbi Zoughbi and Jamal Abu Affcyeh from Palestine. 7:00 P.M. Theodore's. Sponsored by the 
International Graduate Student Committee of the GSU. FILM: ECLIPSE OF REASON Film with Discussion, 7:30 P.M. CSC, Right to Life US ROLE IN THIRD WORLD DEVELOPMENT 
Dr. Denis Goulet, NO Professor, 7:00 pm at the CSC, by World HunQer Coalition.


•
• 
THEOLOGY AT SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE SPRING 1989 ••• ENRICHING ELECTIVES RLST 306 Biblical Theology H. Weiss TT 11:00 am 
..... 
RLST 325 Great Theologians T. Martin MWF 12:15 pm RLST 366 Christianity and Women J. lncandela M 6:00pm 
NO students fulfill their second requirement in theology by taking any RLST course from 201-299. They fulfill their first requirement by ·taking RLST 200 at Saint Mary's College. For times of courses, see schedule of courses. 
ND Registration for SMC Theology Courses 
At ND Theology Department NO Seniors Wednesday, November 9 7-9 pm 340 O'Shaughnessy NO Juniors Thursday, Nov. 10 7-9 pm 340 O'Shaughnessy ! NO Sophomores Tuesday, Nov. 15 7-9 pm 340 O'Shaughnessy : 
Registration also takes place on the days following the above times from 8:30 a.m. -4:00 : 
p.m. 327 or 340 O'Shaughnessy. : 
first-round loss, handled Tee 6­4, 6-4. 
Gelfman was very encour­aged by the play of the entire team. 
"We played head to head with these teams, knocking off seeds and ranked players." said Gelfman. "I couldn't have asked for better play from the girls. 
"Four years ago, when we switched to Division I, these teams would never have even played us." said Gelfman. "Our progress has skyrock­eted, and the girls are very ex­cited." 


By DAVE McMAHON Sports Writer 
On a Sunday that included the prime element of winter football, Stanford and Dillon overcame poor weather and field conditions to plow into the Interhall men's football championship. 
Stanford 13, Alumni 0-­
Sean Gilboy ended a 65-yard scoring drive in the first quarter with a one-yard run to lead Stanford to victory over Alumni in a light but steady snowshower. 
"The snow was to our ad­vantage," said Stanford cap­tain Steve Wightkin. "We were strong tackle-to-tackle offensively, which opened up our running game. They (Alumni) never did get their passing game started." 
The Studs added another score in the fourth quarter when Chris Westerfelt caught a 25-yard touchdown pass from quarterback Mike Busato. 
The Dogs had won the first meeting between the two teams earlier in the season, 10-6. 
"They capitalized on the pass during the first game," said Wightkin. "We pretty much blew it with four fumbles, but we won the game that we needed to win with mistake-free football." 

Dillon 6, Fisher 2-Using a 
strong second effort, Pat 
Murphy plunged into the 
endzone from the six-yard 
line to give Dillon a 6-2 win, 
setting the stage for a 
rematch of last year's Inter­
hall championship. 

"We still had a lot of guys 
hurt from last week, but the 
subs played really well," 
said Dillon captain Paul 
Drey. 

The snow kept passing to a minimum, as traction was virtually impossible for the receivers. 
"Our defensive backs slipped on a couple of their passes, which turned out to be big plays," said Fisher captain Jim Turecek. 
Fisher's only points were registered in the fourth quarter when Dillon inten­tionally downed the ball in its own endzone after getting poor field position. 
Despite the loss, Turecek viewed the season as a suc­cess. 
Call 277-7744 

Subway Sandwiches & Salads is now delivering to the Notre Dame campus. Delivery times are 5:00 p.m. until 12:00 midnight everyday of the week. Call today and try the "Fresh Alternative". 
State Road 23 and Ironwood 

........................................................................................................................ 
-

Hosted By ... Kevin Matthews The LOOP'S AM 1000 DJ in Chicago 

Featuring... Ed Fiala Guest on the Tonight Show, Oprah Winfrey Show, 
Wednesday: The Producer


HBO&more! 

Thursday: FIX 
Thursday,~ov.lO 

Friday: A Fish Called Wanda 9pm, Theodore's Engineering Aud., 8 & 10:15, $2 
..-----------· --­
Tuesday, November 8, 1988 

CAMPUS 
8 a.m. Open meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross 
House. 
Noon Peacemaking Lecture "Prognosis for Peace," by Fa­ther Theodore Hesburgh, Center for Social Concerns. 
12:10 p.m. Art Noontalk "18th and 19th Century Art," by John Shields, Snite Museum. 
3 p.m. Aerospace-Mechanical Engineering Seminar by John Kerwan, University of Illinois, room 258 Fitzpatrick. • 
3:30p.m. Chemical Engineering Graduate Seminar "Elutria­tion from Bubbling Fluidized Beds: Its Relationship to a New Theory of Fast Fluidized Beds," by Dr. Davidson, University of Cambridge, room 356 Fitzpatrick. 
7 p.m. Communication and Theatre presents a short program of avant-garde films, Annenberg Auditorium. 
7 p.m. Women's Resource Committee Lecture "Sexual Har­assment on Campus: Current Concerns and Considerations,'' by Darlene Mosher, Western Michigan University, Library Lounge. 
7:30 p.m. AIESC meeting, Sorin Room, LaFortune Student Center. 
9 p.m. Communication and Theatre Film "Bhowani Junc­tion," directed by George Cukor, Annenberg Auditorium. 

DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
French Bread Pizza Meatloaf Burrito Bar Vegetable Chow Mein Egg Foo Young Chicken Fajitas 
Baked Scrod Deli Bar 

COMICS 
Bloom County 
The Observer page 11 

NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 


ACROSS 35 River in Turkey 
37 Decays1 Norse deity 

5 Networks 39 Excuse of a sort 9 High up 40 Bluegrass 14 Unconvincing honorary title 15 Tropical plant 43 Console 16 Miffed 
44 Flat. broad and 11 Stress thick piece 19 Sport groups 45 Saucy 
20American 46 Staggeredpainter: 
48 Patron saint of 1887-1986 Sweden22 Regret so Wall and Broad: 23 Sun. talk Abbr. 

24 Morse-code 51 Masonry pin 
character 26 Proverbs 53 Type of grass 
30 Fate 55 Stately fowl? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

a Searches for 24 Capital of 33 Chicago-based 54 Type of 9 Like certain Senegal film critic committee roads 34 Slopes 55 Reckless
25 Goddess of peace 
36 Type of aircraft, 56 Pueblo dweller for short · 
57 Augur27 Part of a circle 38 Cicatrix 58 Blackthorn
28 Chinese cooking 41 Continuous 
59 Zhivago's love pans 42 Sash 60 Experts
47 Buck's mate 61 Verve29 Fashion 49 Hit on the head 31 Watery snow 

52 "Her Nibs" of 62 Fender mishap screech 32 Thick soup songdom 63-King Cole 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

63 Ruth's mother -in-law 
64 Calcutta 
dungeon 

65 Colo. ski resort 
66Windbag I 
67 --even keel (steady) 1 
I
68 Single entity 
I
69 Weddell and Ross I 
I
10 Penny 

I 
DOWN I 
j
1 Cassini of fashion 

I
2 Matron 

3 Consequence 
l 
4 Indian prime minister: 
I 
1947-64 I 5 "Able-ere I I saw Elba" I 
6 Lamb's pen name 1 Burly fellow 

Tbere are only t~
-~ -~ 
It's too close to tbe 
truly safe places in Wow! Wbat a teen
He's going to bave to ~ 







Sports
page 12 
Tuesday, November 8, 1988 

ND soccer team nabs 1st-ever NCAA bid 
Irish face SMU at Dallas in opening round 
By FRANK PASTOR 4-0-1 record against teams ecstatic when I heard of the Sports Writer which qualified for the tourna­teams that didn't get into the ment. Irish victories over Bos­tournament. They are all out­
The Notre Dame men's soc­ton University (5-0, Penn standing teams." cer team received its first-ever State (3-0, Evansville (2-0) Sunday marks the first time NCAA Tournament berth Mon­and Saint Louis (2-0), coupled Notre Dame has played SMU day in the wake of its surpris­with a 1-1 tie against Indiana, in the 12-year history of the ing victory in the Midwestern forced the voters to reassess Irish soccer program. The Collegiate Conference tourna­their qualifications. Mustangs (10-2-6) have ad­ment last weekend in in St. "We really muddied the vanced to the NCAA tourna­Louis. waters this year," said Grace. ment for the last six years, and 
The 15th-ranked Irish (17-3-"We went down to Indiana, who eight of the last 10. 
2) travel to Dallas Sunday to was ranked No. 1 in the Although Notre Dame and face 11th-ranked Southern country, and tied them. We SMU never have faced each Methodist University at played No.4 Evansville for the other, they have played two Ownbey Field in the first round first time in three years and common opponents--Wisconsin of the NCAA tournament. beat them 2-0. We just turned and Saint Louis. The Irish tied 
"I couldn't be more ecstatic everything upside down this Wisconsin 0-0 earlier in the or excited for the kids," said year. They (the NCAA voters) year and defeated Saint Louis Irish coach Dennis Grace. tried to keep us out, but really 2-0 last Sunday in the champi­"They really worked hard and couldn't." onship game of the MCC tournJ put in so much effort. Until we While the Irish were ament. The Mustangs tied Wis­joined the MCC this year, we celebrating their first-ever consin 2-2 and played to a never had a conference cham­NCAA tournament bid, tradi­scoreless tie against Saint pionship to shoot for. The tional powers such as defend­Louis. NCAA tournament has always ing national champion Clem­"SMU is an outstanding been so out of reach. We've al­son, Duke, Rutgers and North team," said Grace. "They have ways aspired to get there--now Carolina State were denied ad­been No. 1 in the country at we're there." mission to the tournament. times this year and last year. 
Notre Dame played havoc "I wasn't real happy that we They play a good, aggressive with the NCAA tournament weren't the No. 1 team in the 
see SMU, page 8 
voters this year by posting a region," said Grace, "but I was 
•
Lewis pops Farley 1n lnterhall 
at a date and time to be an­reached the Farley 15-yard By THERESA KELLY nounced. line, but the Finest defense "It was tough at times, but pushed Lewis back to the 30.
Assistant Sports Editor 
we played well," said Lewis of­On fourth down with time run­
Farley's Finest blasted its fensive guard Jill Coakley. "We ning out, Mouch hit Sue Lippa way through the regular wo­came close to beating them with a touchdown pass to give men's Interhall football before, and we knew we had Lewis a 12-6 lead. season, giving up less than the potential to beat them. We Mouch converted the two­three points per contest and just had to make sure we did." point try on a run up the dominating on offense as well Lewis did by holding the Far­middle, and Farley got the ball to compile a 5-0 record. ley offense to six points, which back to try to make a run on 
All that ended Sunday after­the Finest did in a quick offen­the Lewis defense and send the noon at Loftus Sports Center, sive flurry to end the first half. game into overtime. when Lewis Hall upset Farley's Lewis had started the scoring Farley got to the Lewis 10­Finest 14-6 in the first game of when senior quarterback Ellen yard line, but the Lewis defense the Interhall playoffs. Lewis Mouch found an opening on the rose to the occasion and avenged a 6-0 overtime loss left side and sped 60 yards to stopped Farley short in the big­from earlier in the season and give Lewis the early lead. gest upset of the season. advanced to the finals, to be Both defenses played tough played against Breen-Phillips in the second half. Lewis see LEWIS, page 8 


ND places 2nd at MSU Invite 
Wrestlers open season by falling just short of Edinboro 
By GREG the team wrestled." Geneser except that he could SCHECKENBACH Freshman Marcus Gowens contend for an NCAA title this Sports Writer has yet to be defeated in his year," said McCann. 
college career. He won all three Other members of the Irish The Irish wrestling team won of his matches en route to the also had strong showings at a few battles, but lost the war. title in the 126-pound division, Michigan State. Co-Captain That was the feeling of the making it three straight years Jerry Durso and sophmore Notre Dame squad after it that a Notre Dame freshman Todd Layton both finished brought home a hard-fought has won a title at the Michigan second in the 134-pound and 150­second-place finish Sunday in State Invitational. pound divisions respectively. the Michigan State Invitation­"Gowens showed tremen­Durso lost 10-8 in the finals to
.,' al. The victor in the war was dous composure for a fresh­the third-place finisher in last Edinboro, with a combined man, particularly in the final year's NCAA Tournament. team total of 83 points. Edin­match," stated McCann. Senior Pat Boyd made an im­boro finished seventh in the Junior Andy Radenbaugh pressive return to wrestling NCAA Tournament last grabbed the championship after missing most of last year season. Notre Dame, the trophy in the 118-pound division with an injury. Boyd recorded defending MSU Invitational with a 3-2 defeat of Michigan two pins while placing third in champion, finished the tourna­State's Richard Flanders. the 142-pound division. ment with 78.25 points. Radenbaugh will be a top com­
Despite an impressive per­petitor for a NCAA tournament The Irish are a young team, formance, the Irish were un­bid this year in the Western wrestling three freshmen and happy after the match. Region. three sophmores. Experience 
"I was a bit disappointed that Senior co-captain Chris was a factor for some Irish, es­we didn't outscore Edinboro for Geneser bruised his way to the pecially in the heavier weight the title," said Irish coach Fran 177-pound title. He crushed divisions. McCanr:t. "We needed one more Doug Mooney of Ferris State "Edinboro wrestled with a 
The Notre Dame wrestling team opened Its season last Sunday with third-place finisher to win the 15-8 in the finals to win his third veteran squad while we are still tournament, and we just consecutive Michigan State In­a very young team," said
a second-place finish In the Michigan State Invitational. Junior Andy 

couldn't get one. I've got to be vitational title. McCann. "We are only going to
Redenbaugh won his third consecutive Individual championship In 

pleased with the way some of "What can I say about get better." 
the 1 HI-pound division. 


.,..., 

The Observer I Rob Aegovich 
Randy Morris (5) and the Notre Dame soccer team are going to the NCAA tournament for the first time in the Irish program's 12-year history. The Irish, ranked 15th In the country, play No. 11 SMU 
Sunday at Dallas. 


Basketball season tickets still on sale at Joyc~ ACC 
Special to the Observer football, and not basket­
ball." 
Student season tickets for A few lower arena seats 
the 1988-89 Notre Dame bas­are still available for stu­
ketball season are still avail­dent purchase at $85, half off 
able at the Joyce ACC box the price for the general 
office. public. Plenty af bleacher 
Athletic Department seats are available to stu­
director of promotions dents at $68 for the season. 
Bubba Cunningham says Students can purchase 
that student ticket sales are tickets from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
down from last year, despite at the JACC ticket office un­
the improvements in the til the Notre Dame­
Irish home schedule. Yugoslavia game Nov. 18. 
"I can't figure out why This season's home schedule 
t~ey're not selling," Cunnin­includes Syracuse, Indiana, 
gham said. "I guess the stu­Temple, Duke, USC, DePaul 
dents are still thinking about and Louisville. 




