Sun in South Bend ?
IACCENT: Manilow: Big Fun Partly sunny Monday morning, cloudy in the afternoon with a 30 percent chance of showers. High in the mid 60s. Becoming 

J VIEWPOINT: Christian justice 
partly cloudy Monday night. 



Associated Press flew low, apparently to dis­"charging bystanders who 
courage the formation of were doing nothing, and then 
ALGIERS, Algeria--Soldiers crowds. kick them once they were on 
fired into crowds of The city was mostly calm. the ground." The gendarmes 
demonstrators Sunday who After midday prayers at the are police under military con­
refused to disperse, and police city's mosques, some people trol. 
and hospital sources said at gathered and chanted, "Chadli Authorities on Thursday im­
least 200 people had died in Must Go!" a reference to Pres­posed a state of emergency 
rioting over rising prices and a ident Chadli Bendjedid. They with overnight curfews and ar­
government austerity pro­dispersed quickly when sol­rested more than 900 people for 
gram. diers charged. looting. 
Clashes between the army Hospital and police sources The official APS algerian 
and demonstrators grew more in various parts of the country news agency gave a list of 
violent late Saturday and early providing fragmentary infor­reasons for the mounting 
Sunday. Soldiers were ordered mation said more than 200 unrest--crop failure, the col­
to shoot at protesters who did people had been killed and lapse of oil prices, the global 
not disperse and fired several hundred injured in the economic crisis and Algeria's 
repeatedly. past five days. The government enormous population increase­
The government confirmed has given no official death toll. -from 9.4 million in 1954 to more 
deaths among security forces. From the accounts of than 23 million. 
The worst violence was re­sources, as well as descriptions The unrest began about 10 
ported in the southern and eas­from citizens who witnessed days ago, when industrial 
tern suburbs of Algiers and in clashes, it seemed likely the workers staged strikes for 
the western port city of Oran. final death toll could be much higher wages. The government 
Fighting also was reported in higher than 200. said it would not break with its 
a dozen provincial centers. A 26-year-old government of­austerity plan to raise wages, 
In the capital, Algiers, army ficial, Aliouane Fadela, said 
helicopters armed with rockets she saw gendarmes in riot gear see ALGERIA, page 7 
Lightning strikes Keenan 
CINDY BRODERICK aU over the room. The TV $200 television was ruined. 
News Staff didn't work anymore, and the Students will have to bear the 
stereo tuner didn't either." replacement costs themselves, 
Residents of Keenan Hall Splude estimated his damages since DuLac states, "The Uni­
received a jolt Sunday after­at $350. versity assumes no financial 
noon as a bolt of lightning According to Keenan Resi­responsibility for damages to, 
struck an antenna on the roof, dent Assistant Dan Izzo, or loss of, personal property of 
sending a surge of electricity seniors and some juniors are students." 
through the antenna system. At allowed to hook their television 
least six television sets, a VCR sets up to the roof antenna. As Senior Jim Puente's $500 tele­
and several telephones, a result, these students' vision was also destroyed in 
answering machines and electronic equipment received what he described as "a loud 
stereo components were the full force of the lightning. explosion." The set was not 
destroyed. covered by insurance. 
At approximately 1:20 p.m., Senior Steve Traubert des­
senior Bob Splude said he was cribed the strike as "a flash In other rooms, television 
watching television when "a outside and then a flash inside. screens were magnetized, and 
loud bang startled me. It was A piece of plastic shot across computer modems were 
the loudest noise I'd ever the room from the back of the damaged. The power surge 
heard. Then I noticed that the TV, and I could smell burnt also left over $900 of electronic 
cable splitter box had blown plastic. I also couldn't hear for equipment inoperable in one 
apart, and pieces were flying 20 minutes.'' Traubert said his resident's room. 
Compulsive gamblers ? 
Gambling fever spread rapidly Saturday evening at casino night was one of many activities held for Angela Athletic Center, which served as a casino Senior Father-Daughter Weekend. for Saint Mary's seniors and their fathers. The 


AP Photo

Demonstration victim 
A funeral procession for a 14-year-old boy was held this weekend in Santiago, Chile. The boy died from gunshot wounds from unidentified gunmen last Thursday during an anti-Pinochet protest. Demonstrations have been held almost daily since the government conceded defeat. 
N D hosts delegationof Japanese teachers 
By JOHN O'BRIEN are placed in special schools News Staff outside the regular educational system, Tulchinsky said. 
Notre Dame played host to a The Notre Dame-St. Mary's delegation of 21 Japanese Neighborhood Study Help pro­school teachers Friday as they gram also impressed the completed their tour of the delegation. "They were partic­South Bend school system. ularly impressed with the fact 
As part of a continuing that the students did not teacher exchange program be­receive any pay for their help," tween the U.S. State Depart­said Johanna Leda, another ment and the Japanese Educa­member of the U.S. delegation. tional System, the delegation The tour, led by the Japan was hosted by the South Bend Club, began with a conference school system and WNDU and with former Dean of Business WSBT TV. Yusaku Furuhashi, who pro­
"We're attempting to inter­vided the teachers with a nationalize our curriculum," souvenir packet containing said AI Large, director of books and brochures about media services for the South· Notre Dame. Becky Bend school system. Large, Clusserath, co-president of the along with four other teachers Japan Club, explained, "It's a from South Bend, travelled to Japanese tradition to provide Japan earlier this summer. guests with gifts." 
The delegation of teachers The delegation visited toured six schools since their various spots on campus, in­arrival on Tuesday. While they cluding the LaFortune Student visited a series of schools ran­Center, the War Memorial and ging from elementary to col­the Hesburgh Library. A lege level, the Japanese were lighter moment came as tour most impressed with the spe­guide Tom Gasper attempted cial education facilities at to explain the premise of Edison Middle School. "Touchdown Jesus" to the 
According to Nan Tul­visitors. chinsky, a member of this sum­Suzuki Keiya, a teacher at mer's U.S. delegation, the Jap­Kotobuki Elementary School, anese were "suprised to see said, "Compared with Japan­special education students ese schools, this campus is taught alongside non­much more spacious. Students handicapped children." In seem to enjoy this openness, Japan, handicapped students and I like the atmosphere." 
-~ ~ 
_j 
, 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
~ 
~age 2 
IN BRIEF 
A Saint Mary's teacher died Friday after a long illness. Dorothy Manier, 58, taught Freshman English and a writing lab at both Saint Mary's College and Indiana University at South Bend for nearly 15 years. Four of Manier's seven children graduated from Notre Dame, and two are currently attending the University. The funeral will be at Sacred Heart Church today at 3:30 p.m., and interment will be at Cedar Grove Cemetery. -The Observer 
Premature sextuplets were born Saturday to a 26-year-old woman at a Rome hospital, but one baby died Sunday and one was in guarded condition, doctors said. The other four infants were reported to be doing well. 
_ The four boys and two girls were born to Lucia Soma, who was reported in good condition. The babies, who were born two months premature, must survive at least 96 hours before they are considered out of danger, hospital representatives said. --Associated Press 
OFINTEREST \ 
All Juniors interested in being part of the JPW Executive Committee should apply in the Office of Student Activities, LaFortune, or call Chris Boron at 283-2905 for more infor­mation. Applications are due Friday, October 14. -The Observer 
Junior Achievement needs teachers for its Business Basics Program. If you are interested in working with 5th and 6th graders teaching basic economics, please meet tonight at 7:00p.m. in the LaFortune Lobby. Call Kevin O'Connell at 271-9311 for more information. -The Observer 
Service1..earning Opportunity with handicapped adults in small L' Arche households during fall break in Toronto, Canada. Please call Angi at the CSC, 239-5293, for more information. -The Observer 
Cream Your Favorite Lyonite will take place this Friday at 4 p.m. "Pies" may be purchased all this week for $1 in the South Dining Hall. -The Observer 
Seniors may sign up in the Class Office today for the Chicago Trip on Wednesday, Oct. 12. -The Observer 
What kind of relationships we like to have and making choices and decisions about who we are will be the topic of discussiQn for a new Pesonal Growth Group at University Counseling. This new group will meet on Wednesdays from 3:30to 5 p.m. beginning after fall break. Call 239-7336 to arrange a group screening. -The Observer 
The History Club and Phi Alpha Theta Society are sponsoring a meeting concerning post-graduate opportu­nities for all history majors tonight in the Dooley Room of LaFortune from 7:30 to 8:30. -The Observer 
The Investment Club will meet tonight at 7 in 220 Hayes-Healy. All new members are welcome to attend. 
-The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted atThe Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 

Design Editor ____ Lisa Tugman Accent Designer.... Typist ___ Will Zamer Design Assistant ---------------------Ann Buff ........................................ Diana Bradley Typesetter-------------Andy Schlidt ND Day Editor------------·--Diana Bradley News Editor. ----------Michelle Dall ....................................Jennifer Richards Copy Editor.. -------------Rachael Jarosh SMC Day Editor--------·------------· Liz Lobb 
Sports Copy Editor .. -------· Theresa Kelly Photographer .......... ______________ Don Ram Viewpoint Copy Editor-------Mike Truppa Ads Designers........... ,. ________ Molly Killen Viewpoint Layout--------Annette Rowland .......................................... Megan Keane Accent Editor----------------Robert Sedlack ..............................................Patti Kase Accent Copy Editor ___________ Matt Murphy ............................................ MindyBreen 
Tile Olleener (USPS 599 2~) is published Monday through Friday except duri111 exam and vacation periods. Tile Oblener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas· ed for S40 per year (S~ per semester) by writilll Tile Olleener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
Tile Olleener is a member of Tile Allodated Pna. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer Monday, October 10, 1988 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Turning 21 is the key to freedom, independence 
Senior Bar .... A place that strikes desire in the hearts of many who have not yet come of Mark age. For the first time, I was finally legal to enter this famed establishment, where alumni Ridgeway and graduating seniors reside. I found it to be a facinating place--not quite as populated as I ­expected, (then again there WAS an away game Saturday night), but definitely a place to which I will return in the near future. 

My 21st birthday was one of those days in my life that I had looked forward to ever since I came to this university four years ago. Coming from a home in the state of Ohio, where the bar-entering age is 18, I have been able to enter bars with my friends back home for the last three years. 
I enjoy it immensely, mainly for the con­versation and togetherness that takes place there. Going to the bars with friends is like going to your favorite family gathering, only a little louder and far more crowded. The bar is always the place to meet new people and to be with all the old friends that you have not seen since high school. 
But not being of age while being a Notre Dame senior can really put a damper on one's social life. While the majority of the graduating class is flocking to Senior Bar on Thursdays, Chi Chi's 


on Tuesdays and the other "hot spots" on other nights of the week, the "under-agers" are sit­ting in their rooms deciding which book to read or Which re-run to watch on television. The on­campus parties (about the only comfort for those who are not yet legal) can be a lot of fun, but their size is limited. And because of Notre Dame alcohol policy, everyone attending one is in danger of being fined or, in some cases, even suspended. 
Now that I have turned 21, I can go out to the bars with my friends at Notre Dame, get to know my fellow classmates and have an active social life like every student should. 
This off-campus "bar scene" makes the Notre Dame social experience complete. Not only is the size of the "party" larger, but the atmosphere is far more relaxed. There are no fears or anxieties of being in violation of campus laws and regulations and possibly ruining a future career. 
But the part I like most about this birthday is that, for once in my life, I feel like the world is finally treating me like an adult. Even though the bouncers will still want to see my ID and check me over, and even though my fellow peers will occasionally call me immature, I will still live with the satisfaction that I am a legal adult. 

Being 21 is having the ability to do what you want in society, with the laws of the state and one's own moral values as the only guidelines. These guidelines (especially the moral ones) should be well known and familiar to each graduate as he or she prepares to enter the real world of the work place. 
Notre Dame has definitly been a major influ­ence on me in this regard. Now that I have the freedom to chose what I want to drink, where I want to go out and what to do with the rest of my life, I have come to a realization. 
The rules of this administration, which I may have griped about in the past, have been a key in understanding my responsibility to both myself and to society. 
Although most graduates want to break most of the rules which they have lived under in the past four years, I have personally found that I will probably live my life in a very similar man­ner to what this university practices. But most importantly, I will do it by my own choice. I may have had one night of going wild and not caring, but I know that eventually it will be a thing of the past. 
·······························································-~~ Observer classifieds will be accepted from 
II 
Happy Birthday 

Today_islauraS.'sbirthday.Callherup 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices 314 
and w1sh her a happy one. By the way 1 
Laura.we do expect to see you dancing LaFortune 
on pool tables ton1ght. • 

ff)I1JlJ)tl1'1' J)!l~ 
e«tt•Jle1 t t CUP & CIDER GIVE BWBY 
12-3 IN FRONT OF HAGGAR (SPONSORED BY SMC STUDENT GOVERNMENT} 
T-SHIRT SBLE OCT. 10-12 DINING HALL DINNER "'Saint Mary's College, always imitated, never duplicated:· $5.00 
STYLE SHOW DINING HALL DURING DINNER 
SEE FORMER UNIFORMS ON TODAv·s STUDENTS. 
rt=:l1rnm rwrnr;~rnawz C' A 
0 

8:30-1 1 HAGGAR PARLOR STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD ERIC KILBURN, ALL WELCOME,_, .1.. .l. I I FREE PERFORMANCE. SA.IRT IIA.RY"S COLLEGE 
Monday, October 10, 1988 
Judicial Council plans J-Board revisions 
accused of university ruleBy DANNIKA SIMPSON violations.
Staff Reporter 
Feles said the JudicialTwo representatives from Boards were originally or­Student Affairs met with the ganized to "benefit the com­Judicial Council Thursday munity." He said he wouldnight to discuss a revision of like to get the boards in eachthe inner-hall Judicial dorm to operate in a similiar Boards. 
manner, but does not wantThe council is comprised them "to be exact dupl­of four committees, includ­icates" of each other.
ing the inner-hall Judicial Pat Doran, AssistantBoards, the Student Rights Director of Residence Life,committee, the Judical said he would "like to seeReview Board and the the Judicial Boards becomePublicity committee. The viable entities in each hall." 
council refers students According to members ofseeking legal advice at the Judicial Council, manyreasonable rates to South students do not know exactly Bend attorneys, offers an what the Judicial Counciloff-campus housing booklet does. Terry Squyres, a rep­and publishes a student resentative fromrights manual. 
Pasquerilla West Hall, sug­According to Artie Feles, gested that the Publicitycoordinator of the Judicial Committee inform studentsCouncil, the main goal of the about the duties of both thecouncil is to revise the In Judicial Council and the Judi­
Hall Judicial Boards. Whit>h hear the cases of students cial Boards. 

COLLEGE FOOTBALL POLL 
,-~~­
/ Miami at NOTRE DAME Eastern Mich. at BALL ST. . Alabama at TENNESSEE ( 
Arkansas at TEXAS­Washington St. at ARIZONA 
Rutgers at BOSTON COLL. Michigan at IOWA NC State at N. CAROLINA 
Wake Forest at MARYLAND Anzona St. at STANFORD 
DIRECTIONS: 
Simply circle the team you feel will win each of the 10 games. Contestant with the most correct games wins. In case of a tie, predict the final score of the Notre Dame game and Notre Dame's total yardage. 
***LUCKY "IRISH" TIE BREAKER*** 
(Pick the scores for each team.) 
Miami at NOTRE DAME ____ score score NO's Total Yardage: __ 
TIE BREAKER RULES: 
1. 
Total points of Notre Dame Game. 

2. 
Notre Dame's score. 

3. 
Notre Dame's total yardage. 


To be eligible, each contestant must fill in dete, name, address and phone number below. 
Date 

Name ____________________ 
Address----------------------­
Phone__________________ 
• 
Entrres deadline: End of business hours Friday. 

• 
One entry per visit. 

• 
Check The Observer Mondays for new entry form. 


The Observer page 3 

The space shuttle Discovery heads back to first manned space mission since the 1986 Kennedy Space Center in Florida atop a boeing Challenger tragedy. 747 jumbo jet, five days after completing America's 
Rise in crime ends 5 year decline 
Associated Press year history of the govern­versity in Pittsburgh. ment's national crime survey, Last year, the number of per­
WASHINGTON--Crime 34.1 million. sonal crimes rose nearly levels rose 1.8 percent last Even with the increase, 250,000 or 1.4 percent from 1986 year, the government reported crime levels last year were 16 to more than 19 million, with Sunday, ending a five-year percent lower than in 1981, the increases in all four categories decline the Reagan adminis­peak year with 41.5 million of rape, robbery, theft and as­tration had attributed partly to crimes committed, said Joseph sault, which includes murder. vigorous law enforcement and Bessette, acting director of the The amount of household tougher treatment of bureau, a Justice Department crime rose by nearly 360,000 or criminals. agency. 2.3 percent to 15.7 million, with 
People living in the West Administration officials have increases in burglary, larceny were the most likely to have suggested that the decline in and motor vehicle theft. been victims of crime last year, crime was due to sterner law while residents in the North­enforcement and a more In 1987, the number of per­east were the least likely to be cooperative public. Some aca­sonal crimes per 1,000 people victimized, said the study by demic experts analyzing the was 125 in the West, 101 in the the Bureau of Justice Statistics. data have stressed that the size Midwest, 91 in the South and 71 
Nationally, the number of of the most crime-prone age in the Northeast. The number personal and household crimes group, those in their mid to late of household crimes were 223 rose about 613,000 in 1987 to teens, has shrunk in the 1980s. in the West, 166 in the Midwest, more than 34.7 million. The crime-prone age group 179 in the South and 116 in the 
In 1986, the number of crimes will continue to decline in size Northeast. 
hit the lowest level in the 15-until the early 1990s, demog­raphers say, when it is an­The West was the only region ticipated by many experts that to show an increase in personal crime levels will take a crime last year compared with decisive turn upward once 1986, up 8.6 percent. In the again. South it fell by 4.8 percent, 
Last year's slight crime in­while the Northeast and Mid­creases probably suggest a west showed no significant greater concentration of low­change. income groups at the young age levels "where crime goes on," The national crime survey said Alfred Blumstein, dean of was compiled by questioning the school of urban and public some 93,000 people last year in affairs at Carnegie-Mellon Uni-46,000 homes. 
Get Involved in the 
World ofAdvertising 
NOW 
Create &: Promote multi-thousand dollar advertising campaigns 
We need volunteers in the following areas: 

copy writing creative ideastoncepts ad design marketing promotional concepts artists ad layout account executives Distribution Manager 


• STUDENT UNION llOt\RD
No exper1ence necessary. 
Organizational Meeting TONIGHT 6:30 S.U.B. Office 


page 4 The Observer Monday, October 10, 1988 

Time was, earning an MBA put you head and shoulders above the crowd. 
But in the push and shove of the current job picture, the opportunity to stand out isn't just anywhere. It's right here. At General Mills Restaurants, Inc. Where we recognize your accomplishments. And more importantly, help realize your potential. 
By putting you in a position to make decisions. Assert your leadership. Have an impact. Not five years from now. But right from day one. 
Contributing your marketing or finance savvy to our thriving Orlando-based billion dollar restaurant organization. There's The Olive Garden, fine Italian cuisine set amidst a natural garden setting. 
York's, a unique self-service restaurant concept thriving in 1 00+ locations across 22 states. And of course, Red Lobster. Far and away the leader in satisfying America's growing appetite for seafood. 
An eclectic group to be sure. But sharing in common one great opportunity for a few well chosen MBA graduates. So if you're interested in being more than just a face in the crowd, join us Wednesday, October 12th, at 8pm-1 Opm for our presentation and reception in the Alumni Room at the Morris Inn. 
Or write to: MBA Employment, General Mills Restaurants, Inc., P.O. Box 593330, Orlando, FL 32859-3330. 
GENERAL MILLS RESTAURANTS, INC. 
RED LOBSTER® 
THE OLIVE GARDEN® 
©General Mills Restaurants. Inc. 1987 Equal Opportunity Employer 

Monday, October 10, 1988 
Economic crisis hits Yugoslavia 
Associatelt Press 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia-­Tens of thousands of demonstrators took to the streets Sunday, and students began a hunger strike to protest police violence and demand the ouster of Commu­nist leaders. 
Residents reported a heavy police presence and roadblocks around Titograd, the capital of the southern republic of Mon­tenegro, 280 miles southwest of Belgrade. Club-wielding riot police broke up an overnight Taken from the Washington monument, this photo Displayed on the Ellipse in Washington and openrally there against local Com­shows the quilt memorializing AIDS victims. to the public, the quilt has attracted many visitors. 
munist leaders early Saturday . Three people were reported hospitalized in Niksik, 15 miles 
...E9!§pn gas tank is destroyed
northwest of Titograd, where Environmental Protection buses from nearby Charlestonpolice fired tear gas Saturday NITRO, W.Va.--More than Agency spokesman Harold that rolled through the townto break up a crowd. 
3,000 people left their homes Yates said that at 2:01p.m. "no were relatively empty as most 
The state news agency Tan­Sunday while a hazardous air readings indicated any hy-people chose to go to relatives' jug quoted local authorities as waste crew blew up a corroded drogen cyanide down wind." homes and local shopping saying the situation in Niksic tank believed to hold up to 30 EPA officials had not been malls. was "extremely serious" and pounds of deadly hydrogen certain of the tank's contents, "This is going to be the best said thousands of workers at a cyanide. so analysts will examine a thing that's happened for the local steel mill put down their The 4-foot-long cylinder was videotape of the explosion to Charleston Town Center and tools Sunday and marched to abandoned at the site of the look for a telltale purplish the Huntington Mall. These protest police actions. defunct Artel Chemical Co. corona, an indication of the people are going shopping," 
The news agency said federal plant, now a federal Superfund presence of hydrogen cyanide, Nitro Mayor Don Karnes said. president Raif Dizdarevic cleanup site, with 3,400 other surrounding the main body of Just before police sealed off would speak to the nation to ad­drums and barrels of hazar-the flame, Yates said. the town, Karnes toured the dress "the deteriorating crisis dous materials, many of them He said the fire would have city to make sure everyone had situation." unidentified and most of them to be out and the wreckage of left the evacuation area. 
rusting. the cylinder would have to be "There's three or four people The presidency of Bosnia, an­As little as 50 milligrams--a mspected before anyone would in there that looked like theyother of Yugoslavia's six size less than one-sixth the be allowed back into the were staying. We don't thinkrepublics, issued a statement average aspirin--of the hydro-evacuated area. there's manv." Karnes said.
saying violent protests are . . Wind socks pointed nor­
"most seriously jeopardizing gen cyamde c_an kill. Ambulances arrived shortly theastward toward the more the integrity, constitutional or­The explosiOn . occurred at after dawn to begin taking the heavily industrialized area of der and security of the 1:54 p.m. and a fir,e started to elderly and handicapped to Nitro. The wind was estimated country," Tanjug said. burn off the tank s contents. evacuation centers, but city at 10 to 15 mph. 
THE PAUL KELLY SOUL FEELIES &T~f Mf~~fN~f~~ ASYLUM 


ONLY LIFE UNDER THE SUN HANG TIME 
0 



You saw them in SOMETHING Paul Kelly writes timeless Guitar-driven jury and WILD, heard them in story songs with an eye visionary songs are just two MARRIED TO THE MOB, for detail and an ear for the reasons why Soul Asylum and now Haledon, N.j:s enig­indelible hook. Catch this lands at the top of so many matic Feelies are bringing literate, loud, and quite "bands to watch" lists. Their their subdued, celebratory brilliant Down Under band new album, HANG TIME, and sound to your town. Do the on tour with the Smithereens. their live show are two reasons right thing. why you should continue to 
Hoduced by Alan Thorne and Paul Kellv 
get up in the morning. 

Hoducrci by Steve Rmkoff, Bill Million &. Gh•n Mercer 
• Hoduced bv Lenny Kaye and Ed Stasium 

.·······························································•·································••······•············· 
LIVE AJ 
University of Notre Dame

iSEE Paul Kelly BJ
October 12th 
RECORDS

• ········••·•••··••············•···•··•··············••·••·••·••••·····•··••·••••••··•••••·······••••••••·••·····•·••··· 
page 5 

First AIDS victim dies in USSR 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW--The Soviet Union on Sunday reported its first AIDS death, that of a pregnant prostitute from Leningrad, and authorities may publish her photograph to alert her sexual partners. 
The 29-year-old woman died Sept. 5 of pneumonia following a 26-pound weight loss, chronic tonsillitis and bronchitis and a serious decline in the count of her immune system's T-cells, the labor newspaper Trud re­ported. 
All are common symptoms of aquired immune deficiency syndrome, and the newspaper noted that epidemiologists were incensed that the wo­man's doctors failed to diag­nose AIDS before she died. 
They are now trying to locate the victim's sexual partners to determine who else might be infected with the disease, and authorities are considering publishing the woman's photo­graph to alert her partners, Trud said. 
She was registered as a night school student and as a worker at a factory, but police said she earned her living as a pros­titute for foreigners. 
Soviet officials say they have identified 83 AIDS carriers but only one person who has developed the deadly disease. However, they say other cases may have been diagnosed in­correctly. 
High tuition means high quality 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK--Fewer than six out of 10 young people say they have saved for college, and nearly 50 percent said tuition costs prevent many from seeking a higher education, ac­cording to a poll released Sun­day. 
In addition, more than one out of three teen-agers and young adults questioned in a survey commissioned by the Council for Advancement and Support of Education believe the most expensive colleges of­fer the best education. 
The poll, aimed at measuring student awareness of college is­sues, was based on telephone interviews of 1,001 people age 13 to 21 from Aug. 24 to Sept. 
7. It was released as part of National Higher Education Week, which began Sunday. The poll, conducted by the Gal­lup Organization, had a margin of sampling error of plus or mi­nus 3 percentage points. 
Thirty-eight percent agreed that ''the higher the tuition costs of a college, the better the quality of education a student will receive." Among pre­college-age students, the fig­ures were higher: 53 percent of 13-to 15-year-olds agreed with the statement; 41 percent of 16­and 17-year-olds surveyed did. But only 27 percent of current college students and graduates felt that way. 


Computer Center 
Room 25 Math Building 8:00AM-5:00PM 

Introducing the newB.M.O.C.-the big­gest Macintosh on campus: 
The Macintosh· II computer. It's the per­fect roommate for power hungry students who do high speed 'Computing, video pro­cessing, engineering or graphic design. 
Made with an open configuration that allows for special purpose boards, the Mac· II is the fastest, best performing Macintosh ever built. Yet with all its sophistication, it still has the same point-and-click simplicity that Macintosh has become famous for. 
Which means, ofcourse,the Macintosh II and you will be the perfect roommates: It cooks. And you up. 
The power 
to ® your besf 
-~~­

Monday, October 10, 1988 The Observer page 7 


Complaints about stock market crash unresolved 
_;,~,~_.., 
..\ \. \. i /. 
. ·. i.· .. 
~--, 

What a site 
Soviet Maj. Ivan Vershkov, center, briefs foreign journalists about the characteristics of an SS-11 long range nuclear tipped missile in its silo at a Soviet missile base northeast of Moscow. 
Hospital official dies of many gunshot wounds 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS--A hospital administrator found dead in his car died of multiple gunshot wounds, Marion County Coroner Dennis Nicholas said Saturday. 
An autopsy on Charles McGraw, 53, showed he had been shot at least once in the upper body, Nicholas said. 
McGraw, director of food services for St. Francis Hospi­tal, was found by hospital employees about 5:20 p.m. Friday. His car was parked on the second floor of the hospi­tal's parking garage, police said. 
Police said they have no mo­tive and no suspect in the kil­ling. 
Detective Sgt. Lowell Shroyer of the Beech Grove Police said police consider rob­bery a possible motive in McGraw's death. But Shroyer said police were unsure whe­ther any money or jewelry was missing from McGraw's body. 
McGraw worked at St. Francis 22 years. He on occa­sion carried large sums of cash to pay for hospital food orders, said hospital spokesman Fred­erick Bagg. He said he did not know how much, if any, cash 
McGraw was  carrying  on  
Friday.  
Shroyer  said  hospital  

employees described McGraw as the most popular employee. 
"He was an institution at St. Francis," Bagg said. "He was an individual that epitomized the philosophy of the (religious) sisters, who cared about people, worked with people. He was a people person:' 
• UnlttldW.., 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON--Two out of three small investors who ex­perienced problems during the stock market crash are still waiting a year later for their complaints to be resolved, ac­cording to a survey released Sunday by state regulators. 
The North American Securi­ties Administrators Adminis­tration said 64 percent of inves­tors responding to a survey said their problems arising from the collapse of the stock market in October 1987 had not been resolved. 
"This confirms our suspicions that small investors were and remain the invisible victims of the Oct. 19 stock market crash," said John Baldwin, the new president of the NASAA, the national or­ganization for state securities regulators. 
"A full year after Black Mon­day, those of us who regulate the markets at the grass roots level are still finding a surpris­ing number of dazed investors stumbling through the ruins of their post-crash finances," said Baldwin, who is director of the utah Securities Division. 
Baldwin said the organiza­
tion's survey showed that in­
vestors who had been burned 
were not rushing back into the 
market. One out of seven small 
investors said they had bailed out of the market altogetner or were holding less than $500 in securities. 

Of those still in the market, two-thirds indicated they had changed or were planning to change brokerage firms. 
The most common com­plaint, made by half of the sur­vey respondents, concerned problems with brokers executing trades late or getting trades wrong during the hectic period surrounding the crash. The next most common gripe, made by 33.7 percent of those in the survey, concerned charges that their broker had misled them. 
Senate discusses anti-drug bill 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON--President Reagan warned Congress on Saturday that "time is fast run­ning out," and pressed the Sen­ate to approve a House-passed anti-drug bill before adjourn­ment. 
Reagan, as he has in several other speeches during the past week, said he supports the death penalty provision in the 
measure.  ,  
But  in  the  Democratic  
response,  Sen.  Daniel  

Moynihan praised the Senate's version as the better legislation and argued the House bill "has just too many extras." 
"The House bill has many good and tough provisions that express our national commit­ment to five simple but power­ful words--those words are 'zero tolerance' and 'Just say no,"' Reagan said, lifting the slogan from his wife Nancy's anti-drug education campaign. 
"By zero tolerance, we mean simply, that we've had it," Reagan said in his weekly radio address from Camp David, Md. 
"We will no longer tolerate those who sell drugs and those who buy drugs. All Americans of good will are determined to stamp out those parasites who survive and even prosper by feeding off the energy and vitality and humanity of others. They must pay," the president said. 
Reagan said he supports moves to deny federal benefits to anyone convicted of drug
--·


sales or use, user penalties and allowing the admission in federal court of evidence seized illegally, but in "good faith." 
While the House passed its version of the legislation ear­lier this month on a 375-30 vote, the measure has not yet come before the Senate. 
"We must, we need and we will have this law," the presi­dent said. "I challenge the U.S. Senate to get that bill passed." 
Reagan pointed out that the House bill includes the death penalty for those who authorize drug-related killings or anyone who kills a law enforcement of­ficer in a drug-related crime. 
"It marks a major departure in federal policy," noted Moynihan. 


A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACUL TV & STAFF 
An opportunity, In dialogue with others, to deepen your understanding of yourself, your values, your relationship with Christ, your experience of Chrlsllan communily and service. 
Young protesters hold up a banner of Vladimir Lenin, founder of the Soviet state, and a flag of the Soviet Union during a two-hour demonstration 
Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs Princeton University 
Graduate Education for Careers in Public Affairs 
International Relations Development Sn1dies Domestic Policy Economics and Public Policy 

WHEN:  September 16-18, 1988 ·November 11-13, 1988 February 3·5, 1989 March 31-April 2, 1989  
CONTACT:  Campus Ministry Oflice (Badin Hall) 239-5242  
SIGN UP  

OEAOLINE: OCTOBER 14, 1988 
COST: $15.00 
Presentation and question-and-answer session will be held with a Woodrow Wilson School representative. 
Date:  Thursday,  October 13,  l:J33  
Time:  10:JO  a.m.  and  1.00  p.m.  
Place:  see  Career Placement  Office  


mocking communism. An alternative opposition group staged the demonstration in Warsaw, Poland. 
Algeria 
continued from page 1 
and youths began rampaging in Algiers and other cities. 
The austerity plan is aimed at resolving an economic crisis made worse by the fall in the price of oil, the nation's main source of revenue. The plan, announced in January, aims to line up food prices with world markets and cut surplus workers in the state-owned in­
dustries that dominate the eco­
nomy. 
The unemployment rate is 
estimated at above 40 percent 
in the capital, and food prices 
have risen by as much as 40 
percent since January. 
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 
Ill\ 
OFFICE OF 
(ZMPUS 

~±============::::::!MINISTRY 
Viewpoint


page 8 Monday, October 10, 1988 

Sense of self-justice obliges action 
One of the great efforts of the Greek philosopher Plato in his philosophic and literary masterpiece "The Republic" is to get his readers to think about jus­tice in an entirely new way. As true now as it was four centuries before Christ in Athens, we human beings tend to think about justice as a thing primarily other-directed. To be just is to be fair: to pay one's debts, to not borrow from others without asking, to do our part in making sure society func­tions as it ought and so on. A just indi­vidual is one who does good to others, he respects their rights and perhaps their needs. 
Thomas D'Andrea 
inside out 
What we frequently forget, and this is Plato's great lament, is how impor­tant it is for us, for our own individual souls, to be just. No less than our society and our world needs our justice, we our­selves need to be just. This is the self­directed side of justice: our develop­ment, fulfillment and happiness as rational creatures requires and even depends on our being just. The unjust man is a warped man as much at odds with himself as with his society, his family and his God. 
This sounds paradoxical. Typically, we think we have the duty to be just so as to provide for the well-being of others. We would think it strange, al­most perverse, if someone went around performing acts of justice entirely for his own benefit. But level-headed philosopers, pre-and post-Christian, and nearly all Christians have long thought that the search for authentic individual happiness and the providing for the well-being of others are two ac­tivities strictly correlative. Though the details of their correlation have always to be worked out in the concrete (an ongoing process and something by no 
means easy), the two have long been thought to exist in a relation of com­plimentarity instead of opposition. 
The self-directed side of justice has particular significance in a Christian context. We live in a world teeming with injustice--injustice producing great human suffering. Whether it be denial of the rights of the unborn, racial op­pression, supresssion of religious and political rights, economic enslavement of poor and wealthy alike (and the list goes on), ours is a world far from just. Yet as Christians we believe in a God both infinitely merciful and om­nipotent. He could, if He wanted step, in and stop all injustice in an instant. But He doesn't: He gives His grace and leaves the solution of the problems of injustice largely up to us, and to our cooperation with Him. And this is a very striking thing. God, unlike our world, does not need our justice--He wants it. And we need to freely give God what He wants because our happi­ness here and beyond depends on it. 
This is not simply or even mainly be­cause God will punish us if we are un­just. It is rather that in our injustice we will be cheating and punishing our­selves. To be just (and merciful) is to be most godlike, and to be most godlike is to be most happy. 
So God won't force us to be just--He created us to be free and autonomous. Nor will our world--it can't. And we probably won't be just if we simply think in the abstract about the needs of others and toss a bit of our heart their way. Unless we are well aware of the need our own souls have to be just (our flourishing as individuals depends on it), we will probably fall far short of the mark. This commonplace of Chris­tian wisdom, often neglected (though certainly not by John Paul II in his recent encyclical "On Social Con­cerns"), is a good thing for us to keep in mind as the many requests go out, in and around the University, for our time, our energy and talents, and our money. We need to teach catechism, to visit the elderly, the homeless and the underpriviliged; we need to take an ac­tive interest in the problems of human development throughout the world and the promotion of respect for all human life. And we're not doing anyone a fa­vor. 

Thomas D'Andrea is a graduate stu­dent in philosophy and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
P.O. Box Q 
Stanford band behavior 'rude' 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to Mark McLaughlin's column of Oct. 5 in which he asserts that "We need more trees at Notre Dame." I believe his logic is easily felled. Mr. McLaughlin's unique brand of "forestation" is not welcome in this community. 
The author maintains that Stanford University is tolerant enough to allow the students to develop a sense of humor. Was it a sense of humor that the band exhibited last Saturday night? 
This is not the only discrepancy in opinion between the author and myself. While he so delicately refers to the Stan­ford Band as "non-conservative," I un­ambiguously deem them rude. Running onto the field during the Notre Dame Band's post-game performance over­stepped any boundary of silliness or fun. It was inexcusable. And as for Stanford's tolerant administration, they thought the band was so "funny" last year that they banned it from per­forming at all home games. 
Mr. McLaughlin even goes so far as to slight our band (though he denies doing so) by saying that in comparison it "seemed rather staid with its rendi­tion of 'Amazing Grace' at the half." It is an insult to imply that a comparison can even be made between the two; there is virtually no common ground except that they both call themselves "bands." 
Mr. McLaughlin voices a ridiculous complaint when he asks if we must be 
Garry Trudeau 

classy all the time. He makes it sound as if this is a negative attribute, that class is essentially a deterrent to fun on campus. Needless to say, this is not the case. Notre Dame's reputation as a classy university is hardly a stigma. 
The author's logic falters again when he grants that, although the Stanford Band's actions may have been imma­ture, weird, rebellious, and stupid, col­lege is our only chance to act like this. I don't know about Mr. McLaughlin, but when I chose to come here the oppor­tunity to act immature and stupid was not a prime motivation. 
Finally, even if the Notre Dame ad­ministration did ask the Stanford Band to tone down for its appearance in Notre Dame Stadium, what harm is there in that? Given free reign, who knows what kind of "creative, energetic, and im­aginative" ways they would have.found to insult us. There is no need to subject ourselves to such conduct in our own stadium. 
In conclusion, the author accuses Notre Dame students of being lapdogs of the administration with their submis­sive "Father knows best" attitude. If Mr. McLaughlin wanted to attend a liberal college where student protest runs rampant and, more importantly, where there are few blue blazers, why did he choose traditional Notre Dame? Perhaps it is the author himself, and not the entire Notre Dame community, that is barking up the wrong tree. 
Shannon Ryan Regina Hall Oct. 7, 1988 

Quote of the Day 
"Some people, no matter how old they get, never lose their beauty -they merely move it from their faces into their hearts." 
Martin Buxbaum 



THAT's eASY 7D SAY, BUT Y(){) IXJN'TKNOIAI /A/HAT IT's
HOIQ Cf)(JI.J) I IN MY 
lftY, &VtRYBOilt/ SKIPPY l!tsAMAZING ~5/R. £/NW f)(JRJN6 MY ~NC£,{..1~ 
HAV~ eceN S/[){3-&XP&R./­
UK£ 70 6/?IJW tJP IA/ITH AN 
8U5H JIJST7e5TCJ) RJ51-tuHATFAU/3 500FT&N 

8VI/.. ?WIN! WHAT roGIVE­
(}IJTOFTH& 1!'5 50ME­

OWN CAMPA16N?­CAN813 
TIVe. FOR ST6ROIPS!

70 see MY 9ROTH&R PUT 
5/<,Y 50M&­7HIN6FROMIT'S JUST NOT UK£7HAT, IN H/5 PIAC&! 

T!Me'3, 19N'T A seAGULL...
FAIR! 5/R. 
/ 
/H 
l-
I 



Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ...................................... Chris Murphy Business Manager .............................. John Ox rider 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................ Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager ................. Molly Killen News Editor ......................................... Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .................. Unda Goldschmidt 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of tl>le University of 
News Editor ................................... Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager ...................... Bernadette Shi~s 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Viewpoint Editor ................................. Matt Slaughter Systems Manager .. . . .. .............. Mark Ridgeway
the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Sports Editor ....................................... Marty Strasen Controller .......................................... Todd Hardiman 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Accent Editor .......................................... Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager ......................... Marga Bruns 
Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 
Saint Mary's Editor ......................... Sandy Cerimele 

is available to all members of the community and the tree expression of varying opinions on 
Photo Editor........................... .. ..... Michael Moran 

""mpus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 
Accent

Monday, October 10, 1966 
page 9 

Manilow's oldies: 'Big Fun' 
PETE SKIKO AND BRIAN O'GARA accent writer 
8 arry Manilow. 
What images does that name conjure up in your mind? 
A born showman, saunter­ing down pseudo-marble stage stairs in a hot pink jacket and black spandex pants, belting out one of his new pop tunes to a capacity crowd of gentile senior citizens and gushing teenage devotees, clinging to his every croon? 
A philosopher (a Ia Springsteen), prefacing each of his new songs with some kind of poignant message, however trite, which might replace previously engr:1ined images of the hcfttest spot north of Havana? 
Or the old beagle himself, 
stirring up memories of yes­
teryear? You know, all the 
old favorites, up in the attic 
with baseball cards, broken 
radios and posters of the 
Grease cast and Charlie's An­
gels: I Write the Songs, Even 
Now, Somewhere Down the 
Road, This One's For 
You, ... the list goes on and on. 
To two dubious reviewers, 
who cast aside both some­what negative preconceptions and much of a Friday night to spend two-and-a-half hours with the Old Smoothie, he was all of these. Certainly not great, but definitely enter­taining. 
Barry tended to overes­timate his ability to dissemi­nate grandfatherly advice and deliver stand-up comedy. But when it came down to what he was there at the Joyce ACC to do, sing, he did not disappoint, especially during his medley of the old songs near the end of the show. 
The show, which featured a talented troop of singersldancers1nusicians ac­centing Barry's every piece, never lacked in energy. But Maniiow seemed strangely out of place cascading up and down staircases, while barking out lyrics to fast­paced Latin tunes like the frenzied "Hey Mambo" and "I'm Your Man", both off of his new "pop" album. 
The crowd definitely noticed the lack of sentimen­tality in Manilow's new, jazzed-up work, and were never really in the show until he sang the first of his Golden Oldies, "Ships". The opening set included such non­remarkable newcomers as "Sweet Life", "Brooklyn Blues", and "I Am Your Child", which showed hints at the old Manilow, but had a new, slick look that just didn't fit the Manilow style. 

His "comedy" routine had 
some bright moments, includ­ing his pathetic accordion renditions of current pop tunes "Born in the U.S.A.", "I'm So Excited" and "Like A Virgin" ("Madonna would have stayed a virgin a little tonger if she had played it like that," suggested Manilow). 

During a salute to his days as an audition pianist for Broadway shows, he dis­cussed the early Barry Manilow look, "I was always uptight--slicked back hair, horned rim glasses ... basically I was a real geek. I was a real geek, that is," r.:r1uckled Manilow, inl5lrii.lating he has left that part of his life be­hind (the jury's still out on that one). 
But one thing is for sure-­Manilow can still melt the hearts of his audience with the tunes that made him fa­mous back in the mid-70's. That was apparent during the climactic 35-minute medley of his greatest hits, which spanned from "One Voice" to his moving trademark "I Write the Songs". But even during this testament to his past successes, the new Manilow couldn't resist moon­walking right before launch­ing into "Copacabana." 
Barry Manilow's new ma­terial lacked punch and sin­cerity, seeming to get old in a hurry. But certainly, Manilow has earned a place in the hearts of many, for his soul­ful music of 10-15 years ago, and he did a splendid job of keeping the toes tapping and the music fresh Friday night. 
Chocolate DELIGHT! 
SARAH VOIGT accent writer 
H
ow do you make people feel good about them­selves after indulging in the richest chocolate desserts that South Bend restaurants have to offer? How about making it a charity benefit? That's exactly what the Friends of the Unemployed did with the Chocolate Fes­tival in the Joyce ACC yester­day afternoon. 
The Friends of the Un­employed, a non-profit or­ganization, invited 30 local restaurants, grocery stores, and confectioners to offer their dessert specialities. Proceeds from the admission fee of $6 for adults and $3 for children went to support the Friends of the Unemployed's free job-counseling services for unemployed Michiana area residents. 
The JACC was transformed into a chocolate lovers paradise. A chocolate moose mascot wandered around shaking children's sticky hands. People of all ages sampled the wide variety of desserts including frozen yo­gurt, chocolate covered strawberries, elaborate wed­ding cakes, and rich brownies. Alka Seltzer tablets were distributed at the door for obvious reasons. 

Just as the Chocolate Fes­tival is open to anyone with a sweet tooth, the Friends of 

Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 

the Unemployed's services 
are offered to anyone who is looking for a job or who would like a better position. The organization attempts to help unemployed people in both the practical and psycho­logical aspects of their job search. 
Kathy Nafe, the director of the Friends of the Un­employed, explains the pro­gram's functions, "We offer help on resumes and inter­view techniques to teach our clients how to market them­selves. We also offer counsell­ing and motivational assis­tance to let them know that we are behind them every step of the way in their job search." 
Kathy Nafe leads a staff of three, paid, part-time coun­selors and a large group of volunteers that help with spe­cial projects such as the Chocolate Festival. In the past Notre Dame students have interned at the pro­gram's office located in the 

First United Methodist 
Church in South Bend. 
Although the local un­employment rate is now lower than it has been in a few years, about 7,000 people are still out of work, The Friends of the Unemployed hopes to extent their office hours and to expand their staff in order to better ac­commodate these un­employed. "We hope that fund raisers like this Choco­late Festival will help us achieve our goals," Kathy Nafe said. 
The Friends of the Un­employed offers programs and services that hope to sweeten the lives of its clients for a much longer time than it takes for a chocolate cup­cake to last in a child's hand. 
-~---~--~---------------------~~-------­
page 10 The Observer Monday, October 10, 1988 
SPORTS BRIEFS . _ 
The ND Women's Track Club is having a brief organizational meeting Tuesday at 7:30p.m. in Howard Hall's 24-hour lounge. Ifunable to attend, please contact Linda at x2563 or Wendy at 684-4052. -The Observer 
Transportation is available to and from Friday night's Notre Dame-Miami baseball game at Stanley Coveleski Stadium. Three buses will leave from the pep rally (after its conclusion) to the stadium and will return to the Joyce ACC after­ward. -The Observer 
The N[}SMC Ski Team has its turtlenecks back. Anyone who plans to go to Steamboat or try out for the team must attend the meeting Tuesday in room 127 of Nieuwland Science Hall. For those planning on going to Steamboat, bring a $100 deposit to reserve a spot. -The Observer 
The novice boxing tournament will be held today at 4:30p.m. in the boxing gym at Gate 3 of the Joyce ACC. Admission is free. -The Observer 

Jazzercise has come to Notre Dame. Non­Varsity Athletics is offering a 5:10p.m. class on Mondays and Wednesdays at Rockne Memorial. Register at the NVA office, and call 239-6100 for more information. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
n.a..-Notn1 Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday througfl Friday. The a..-Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts clasalfieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-ct.y classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifleds must 
be pnlp8kl, either In person or by mall. The charge is 10 cents per five ch8ractens per day. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 

Mall "Schmeal" Gallagher lor VP 
TEXTBOOKS -Bought & Sold-Books for ALL classes still available! UN­BEATABLE PRICESIII Pandora's Books, 808 Howard St., just off of NO Ave. 233-2342. 
MULTICULTURAL WEEK GRAND FINALE-MIRIAM MAKEBA & HUGH MASEKELA In Concert Sunday, Oct. 9 at 8pm In Stepan Center. 239-7442 & 284·4626 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. 
THE OBSERVER'S LAST ISSUE BEFORE FALL BREAK IS THURSDAY, OCT. 13. GET YOUR CLASSIFIEDS IN BY 3 PM WEDNESDAY, OCT. 12. 
CALL DOLORES FOR YOUR TYPINGWORDPROCESSING 237-1949 
Maureen "Mad Poodle" Gallag 

LOST/FOUND 
Lost: NO class ring, gold with Q_reen stone. Reward offered. Call Dean 277­4673. 
LOST! Sometime on Saturday, Green Field? A green emerald, floating heart necklace Lots of sentimental valuelll! If found, please call Kate al 277-9609. $$$ Reward $$$$ 
LOST: GOLD SEIKO WATCH ON STEP­HAN FIELDS--CALL BRET 1389 OR 1376 
LOST: Gold Hoop Earring!! Call 264' 5171 if found. PLEASE HELP ME FIND MY EARRING!!!! 
LOST: BUNCH OF ABOUT 12 KEYS MAYBE NEAR NO POST OFFICE. CALL JULI AT 239-6335 THANKS. 
FOUND: Man's black walch. Found after Greerl'Scruffy concert. Call Chris al x3670. 
PLEASE Help! I lost my StMary's Class Ring around Senior Bar or lhe Commons on 100. Initials EED (or maybe lhe name), BA, 83. Call 272-7065 or 289­4935. Thanks! 
STOLEN: Blue denim jackel from table by back door ol North Dining Hall. If you have rt, please return rt lo 100 Sian lord Hall or call Chris al x2161. lhanx 
................................................... LOST!! GOLD WATCH WITH BLACK LEATHER STRAP. HAS A MOON AND SUN ON THE FACE. EXTREME SEN­TIMENTAL VALUE ... REWARD OF­FERED. PLEASE CALL AMY X1339 
FOR RENT 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219­291-7153. 
FURNISHED ROOMS & 2 BEDROOM HOME.NEAR CAMPUS.272-6306 
································································ WANTED 
OVERSEAS JOBS. Summer, yr.round.Europe,S.Amer.,Auetralla,Aela All flelde. $900-2000 mo. Slght-­lng.Free Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52· IN04, Corona Del Mar,CA 92625. 
On-campus travel representative or or­ganization needed to promote Spring Break !rip 1o Aorida or Texas. Earm money. free !rips, and valuable work ex­perience. Call Inter-Campus Programs: 1-800-433-7747. 
1 roommate needed. 3 bedroom house. Aboul 3 miles from campus. Male, grad. Call 287-4240 or 7850. Ask lor Ashok or Jeff. 
Need ride lo Pgh. for break-will pay. CJ 
.:::~tte'9 
A'id~---~~~~d to C:L"'.'hland for break. Prefer to leave after Miami g&me;. Will share expenses and can drive. Caii Mathew belween 4 and 6 pm or late nighl al 234-3250. 
I need a ride lo the Washington,DC area for fall break. Will help pay lravel ex­penses. Call X2376. 
Want to sublease N.D.AVE.APT.for only 
90.00 a monlh,righl now or beginning ol spring semesler.Call 3476. 
NEED RIDE To CHICAGO AREA Must leave afternoon of 1CYT 4 Will share ex­penses Call Kirk, 3790 
RIDE OFFERED to VA Beach, VA (via D.C.) Leave 1()116, Ret1~1 or23 Roger 272-7496 
FOR SALE 
TV RENTALS: YOU CAN RENT A 25" COLOR TV FOR ONLY $90.00 PLUS TAX. ORA 19"FOR ONLY$70.00PLUS TAX. FREE SERVICE. FOR FAST FREE DELIVERY, CALL COLLEGIATE REN­TALS AT 272-5959 ANYTIME. 
APPLE lie COMPUTER PACKAGE in­cluding keyboard, green-screen monitor, disk drive, Hewlett Packard printer, Ap­pleworks word processor, blank data dis­ks. $950 or besl offer. Call Brian al 283­3481. 
ONE-WAY BUS TRIP FROM LONG IS. LAND lo N.D. on Ocl.21. $40. Colleen 283-2291. 
FOR SALE ONE MIAMI STUD TICKET Best Offer Call Chris 1052 · 
81 Toyota Tercel 4-spd 2-dr coupe. Frnl whl drive. Very reliable. 78,000 mi. Tires and battery 2 yrs old. BIG TRUNK HOLD 114 KEG! $1,500. Jennifer, 259-5908 
PLANE TIC OVER XMAS. ROUND­TRIP, CHICAGO TO ORANGE COUNTY, NON-STOP. CALL 289-8415 CRAIG. BEST OFFER BY 1023. 
TELEVIDEO COMPUTER 10 MEG HARD DRIVE 1 FLOPPY DISK DRIVE KEYBOARD & MONITOR EXCELLENT CONDITION CPM 233-1101 FRANK 
Hole! Room Available lor MIAMI Weekend. Call Brendan x3598. 
Miami Slud Ticket for sale to highest bid­der. Sara x4951 
Van Halen lickel 4 sale! x4915 
San Fracisco plane lie al Thanks--giving STILL 4 sale! £4915 
1980 DATSON 310GX COUPE, 5 SPEED CLEAN. GOOD MECHANICAL CONDITION, $995. 272·6477. 
TICKETS 
MIAMVAIR FORCE TIX FOR SALE­MARIA-3769 
BIG MONEY 
BIG MONEY I Need 2 GA's for the Air Force Game. Please Call Dan at 3365 or my mom will kill me. 
I NEED TIXS FOR ALL HOME 
GAMES.272~ 
NEED 3 PENN STATE GA'SIII $ IS NO PROBLEM. PLEASE CALL JOHN 277­3997. 
HELPII I Still need PENN GAs. Please call Nancy 4434 
FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI & 1 AIRFORCE STUD TICKET--BEST OFFER CALL MARY AT 
NEED 2 MIAMI TIX. WILL TRADE 2 PENN STATE $$$. CALL (215) 288­0968 ANYTIME. CALL COLLECT. 

HELP HELP HELP HELP I need 15 Miami GAs, yes I said 15. Will pay much $. Good seats preferred. Please call Pete at 287-5871. 
NEED 4 PENN STATE TICKETS PREFERRABL Y GA'S CAROLINE 283-3144 OR CARLOS 289-8417 
FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI & 1 AIRFORCE stud.;~t lickei--BEST OFFER--call Mary al £2286 
;:;~-c~~~di~~--h~~h~d·~·-;;~-~~-~:;g 
down for the MIAMI game, and they're bringing Ice cold Canadian beer and a bunch of funny looking money with them. They're offering both beer and cash for GAs. Good deal, eh? 
Call Marty at 1471 
HELP! NEED 4 MIAMI GA'S 277-1513 
Need 2 PENN STATE Tix Will pay $ or trade other GA's Sean x1352 
Need Rice GA's and Penn State Ga's Abe x1352 ························-····· 
Need 2 GAs (not sludent) for Miami. Call 264-5666. 
···················· NEED 5 TICKETS TO PENN STATE GAME. WANT TOGETHER BUT WILL CONSIDER SEPARATE. PLEASE CALL JIM STYNES AT (800) 223-2440 EXT. 7772. 
NEED 4 USC TIX FOR "BOOGER!"-­CARL 4073 
HELP! Need Air Force GA's. Call Jim at 2351. 
I need Miami T1x 271-8311 
I NEED 5 AIR FORCE GA'S--KRIS x2804 
Need 2 Miami G.As will pay $$or trade 2 PENN STATE GAs or 2 45-yard line AIR FORCE GAs Call John £1805 
Miami St Tick FOR SALE. Chris 3373 
HELP! I have $90 and am DESPARATELY in need of lwo MIAMI GA's. Call JIM at x1010 
TORCH needs two tickels for the Miami game or he will die. Call CHRIS al 3322 and keep the FLAME alive. 
I NEED MIAMI TIX, STUD. OR GA. CALL MIKE 1662. 
NEED 3 TICKETS TOGETHER FOR MIAMI GAME. CALL COLLECT 219­482·8989. 
WANTED: 2 TICKETS TO MIAMI-NO GAME. WILL PAY TOP $. CALL 305­981-9354 AND LEAVE MESSAGE. 
2 MIAMI GAS FOR SALE. CALL 415­769·1248 BETWEEN 9AM-5PM PACIFIC TIME 
SOMEBODY MUST HAVE 2 PENN STATE GA'S-PLEASE MIKE X1628 
I need 8 PENN GA or lwo sets of 4 Life or Death MEGABUCKS offerred call Tim X1616 or Bruce 8-5p.m (313)628-4300 
NEED 3 MIAMI GAs. Call JJ al 1661 
Air Force student tix lor sale. Call x1560. 
Have 2 Miami Slud lix for sale. Still in Desperate need of 2 Penn Slate GAs. Please call heather al 277-3266 after 5 p.m. 
TIX TO ALL HOME GAMES FOil SALE 272-6863 
NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S DESPERATELY CALL ED AT 288-6207 
I need 2 Penn Sl. GA's. I have 4 AF GA's. If you are willing to trade, sell, or buy, please call John at 2089. 
NEED MIAMI GA'S BIG BUCKSIII CALL MATT AT (219) 484-9080 8 AM-5 PM, M·F 
HELP ME!!II I NEED 2 AIRFORCE GA'S CALL DEBBIE x4960 
NEED 3 GA'S FOR PENN STATEIII Will pay $$$$$.Please call MG al 264 5112. 
FOR SALE:2 STUD. T!X FOR AIR FORCE CALL 284-5160 
TIX 4 SALE: 1 MIAMI & 1 AIR F. STU. £1827 MAKE YOUR OFFER. 
One Miami slud. licket. call 2171. 
I NEED RICE TIXIII Let's be serious---you don'l want to see us play Rice. bul my family does. I need 8 lickets lor the game. If you can help, please call me al 283-1 069 ask for The 
Beeler. 
MIAMI STUD TICKET FOR SALE X4565 BEST OFFER BY 1CYTO 
......... ··············· ··················~············ Mi~rni tckt. for sale.Married student so 
no 1d req.,cii/: 277-7298 
HELP HELP HELP HELP Ne~ ~i!IMI stud Tix Bill 2445 
AIR FORCE TIX FOR SALE 2 GA'S AND 1 STUD ALSO NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S CALL ERIC AT X3573 
............................... NEED 10 Miami Tx. GA or Sid. Would like in grps. of 2 if possible. 233-2651. 
FOR SALE: 3 MIAMI STUDENT TICK­ETS. CALL BRENT AT x3065. 
........................................... Need 2 AF GA's. My parenls sold theirs and lhen decided they wanled to see lhe game. Mark 1913 
1 AIR FORCE STUD. FOR SALE CALL MATT AT x3610 
FOR SALE-MIAMI STUDENT TICKET BEST OFFER 284-4335 
AIR FORCE STUDENT TICKET FOR SALE CALL LIZ SMC x4388 ·········-·············· ·····················-··········· 
HELP! I NEED MIAMI TIX, STUDENT OR GA. MY FAMILY NEEDS A PLACE IN THE STANDS TO SEE NO BEAT MIAMI. CALL BRIDGET AT 284-5075 
······························································· 
NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S. WILL PAY TOP$ x1913 -JOHN ··········································-·-············· 
Need as many AIR FORCE GA'S as pos­sible. Will pay any price. Michelle al SMC­4395. 
NEED 2 PENN ST. STU TIXI CALL EL­LEN X3706 
......................... FOR SALE: AIR FORCE AND RICE STUDENT TIX--X4169 
MIAMI STUD TICKET FOR SALE I am a warm weather friend--so• and higher. Call Brian al x3670 with your sunny forecast. 
Will trade 4 A. F. GA for 4 MIAMI CALL 283-2238 
Miami slud ticket for sale. best offer. call mike ex4062 
One Miami student lickel for sale. Best offer. Call Lou x1433. 
fNEED PENN STATE TIX. SELLING AIR FORCE TIX. PLEASE CALL DIANE X2147 
HELP ME!! I AM IN DESPERATE NEED OF 4 RICE STUDENT TICKETS FOR MY SIBLINGS. PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 2163 AND LEAVE NAME, NUMBER, AND PRICE. 
HEY I NEED MIAMI STUDENT TIX!! CALL TOM AT 288·4036. THANX MAN. 
FOR SALE 3 GAS FOR MIAMI 2 GAS FOR BOTH RICE & AIR FORCE (BOTH ARE 50 YO LINE) CALL JOE 2546 
NEED 2 AIR FORCE G.A.'S I CALL KENYON-1191 
NEEDED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S Call Sieve al x3114 
HELPII! I NEED 5 AIR FORCE GA'S ... PLEASE, SELL ME YOURS. CALL GUY AT x3883 
Need 2 Penn State Tix(prefer stu­deni)Will pay$$! Call Rich at 3317. 
Miami Tix needed. Need 2 MIAMI GA's and 1 stud. $$$$ KEN 287-5451 
I HAVE 1 MIAMI STUDENT TICKET FOR SALE! BEST OFFER. LIZ 264-4325 
PERSONALS 
N.D. CANDY Personalized Noire Dame, Green-While Taffy $9 pound. $3 postage. Send check to: MAIN EVENT, LA. COLISEUM, 3911 S. FIGUEROA, LA.,CA90037.213-741­1338. 

JON-I know you're expecting one so here's your very own personal. Since you are approx. ten up on me, I can think of many things I'd like to say... but we do have a personals policy. So let II suffice to say "Have a Nice Day." 
walch lor Vision 
watch tor Vision 
walch lor Vision 
Everyone prepare to celebrate: 5 more days until Elizabeth-Anne Crisp Is 20. 
R1DE NEEDED TO PH ILLY lor break; will pay $ Ca11 Dan 1765 
Just when you though! il was sai,; !o cross lhe ILLINOIS border aga~n; SENIOR CHICAGO TRIP, Wed. Ocl. 12 tickets on sale in sen class office 
Maureen "Mad Poodle" Gallagher 
Mall "Schmeal" Gallagher 
Scott (St. Ed's) Happy 181h on lhe 161h ( ) Love( ) Mom,Dad,SieveeAmi( ) Scott (St. Ed's) ( 
GAYS AND LESBIANS AT NOTRE DAMEtST. MARY'S COLLEGE P.O. Box 194 Notre Dame. IN 46556 
"I lhink Michigan is definitely the mosl physical learn we will play this year.'' -Jimmy Johnson 
The rush Is on. Hate Miami now. 
································································ 
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS "Job Search Techniques" WORKSHOP Oclober 10, 7:00 p.m. Career & Piace­menl Career Library All inlemalional sludenls are invited. Sponsored by Career & Placement Ser­vices. 
PLEASE'..'SEL'L M'IKE'''W'AD"E'' YOU'R 
MIAMI GA TICKETS. HIS PARENTS ARE MAD ENOUGH THAT HIS SISTER ACCIDENTLY TOOK HIS CAR KEYS BACK TO NEW JERSEY WITH HER LAST WEEK. NOTHING ELSE GOES RIGHT FOR HIM EITHER. HELP HIM...287-9870 
TH'E····oase·Rv·eR·:g·····LAST ... i'SSUe 
BEFORE FALL BREAK IS THURSDAY, OCT. 13. GET YOUR CLASSIFIEDS IN BY 3 PM WEDNESDAY, OCT. 12. 
iiE'i.:j;i·i·~~~;j·~·;;;;~-.-~·;;;ii~t;~;;j;;·~~-c;~;~ 
15 ASAP following the Miami game. Will share expenses. Mike x4141 ..................................... I NEE ED 2 PENN ST. GA'a NOWII WILL PAY GOOD MONEY. PLEASE CALL JASON AT x4141. 
jiJN.io"Fis..:iuN.ioRs-·:iuNioRs..ooN'T 
FORGET DOGBOOK PICTURES WILL BE TAKEN STARTING TOMORROW FROM 7-11 PM IN THE BASEEMENT OF LAFORTUNE SMC JUNIORS TONIGHT IS YOUR NIGHT GET YOUR PICTURES TAKEN FROM 4:30 TO 8:30 IN LAMANS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS 
My GRANDFATHER WENT OVER­BOARD AGAIN ... I HAVE 4 RICE GA'S. $NEGOTIABLE. CALL KATRINA X4678. 
musl sell plane ticket from mishawaka inlernational to newark! flighl leaves friday october 141 70$ or best offer call brian 3574 
FOR SALE ONE-WAY TRIP FROM LONG ISLAND on Ocl 21. $40. Colleen 283-2291. 
I am looking for 4 GA's to any home football game. I have very lillie money but I would be willing lo trade my services as a photographer in exchange. Any size black and while portraits available. If in­terested call x3331. 
2 LONELY BLOND ITALIAN WOMEN DESPERATELY SEEKING RIDE TO 
D.C. AREA FOR OCTOBER BREAK. DON'T LEAVE US BEHIND! CALL LISA 284-4346 
JUNIORS .. JUNIORS .. JUNIORS Apps available for JPW Executive Board Pick up In Office of Student Activities. Due Fri. Oct. 14 by Spml 
Your wish is granted GINO and EJ ... your names are In print once again. Good luck (In all you do) this week-let's celebrate on Thursday and Flday... Hey, Chicago after Break anyone? (EJ­-you're driving!) 
Miss you guys! R. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY "BEE-BOO" CRISP, OUR FAVORITE COUSIN, JOHNNY, STEPHEN, PATRICK, TIMMY ADAMS. 
HELP!! I DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO THE ATLANTA AREA FOR OCTO· BER BREAK! WILL HELP WITH EX­PENSES! CALL AMY 284-5493. 
SENIORS! Tired of studying for mid­terms? Ready lor a break before a break? Join lill in Chicago on Wed.. Ocl.12! Sig­nups in Sttnior Cia:;s Office! 
WE WISH SILLY TIPSY 
AEROBIC COMPUTER WHIZ 
YOU, LIL' PUP KELLY A HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY! 
LOVE. US 
THE PUNKETTES 
RIDERS NEEDED to Houston. Texas Leaving TCY13; relurning 1023 Call Bnan at x3670 or Mike at x2647 
I AM CONTEMPLATING MURDER( 
) I WILL BE HIDDEN AMONGST YOU, WILL BRING OUT MY WEAPON, AND 
THE DEED WILL BE CLEVERLY DONE. A PERFECT PLAN FOR THE PERFECT CRIME. NOBODY COULD PIECE TOGETHER( ) THE MYSTERY ... ( 
Sarah Johnson-At first !thought to follow hot on passion's flair, now I lang--u1sh for a !rue-love's bliss. Pray tell, is your heart taken? Please respond. 
-One who's interested 
'Tim~: 
Roses are foBd Violets are blue As Barry would say 'This one's for you" 
. wherever you are HAPPY BIRTHDAY MARGE Friends, 231 
NEED 1 MIAMI STUD. CALL MIKE£2238 
Woe to you Oh MIAMI,Ior the Irish send The Beast with wrath because we know the time is short.Let him who hath un­derstanding reckon the Number of the CAJUN BEAST .for il is a human number: his number is FORTY-TWO.STONEY IS BACK! 
Discern whare God Is leading you Share In a womena' retreat at Mary's Solitude-St. Mary's, Oct. 28-29, 7p.m.­7p.m. Cell Sr. Arlene at 284-5599 
L'EQUIPE VERMIN?? HA!! DILLON BIG 
RED SOCCER WILL CRUSH CAR­ROLLI!!! 
I NEED HELP! Anyone have a Tandy 1000 TX Professional Wrile or Partmastere Manuel, PLEASE call Mar­cey x1339 
LOS!! GOLD WATCH WITH BLACK LEATHER BAND SOMEWHERE BE­TWEEN B.P, ZAHM, AND CUSHING. EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE CALL AMY X1339 
DENNIS AND GAVIN, THANKS FOR THE HEART, TO HEART TALK. GAVIN, YOU STJU:' OWE US A STORY. YOU BOTH OWE ME ICE CREAM!! --VERN 
HAPPY 18TH BIRTHDAY TO DILLON'S LrrTLE SCHWANTZ! (MIKE DUDDY) Maybe now that It's your birthday some girl will take pity on you and you'll get a chance to use that THING IN YOUR WALLIET that's been there SINCE JUNEIIII From your wonderful sactlon mates, Jim, Sean, Jon, Bung, Tim, Hal, Kreg, Dan, and Chris. 
NEED A RIDE TO BUFFALO, NY OCT 14 FOR BREAK? CALL JEN 284-4385 

Monday, October 10, 1988 
Injuries plague ND at Ball State Invite 
By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer 
This weekend the Notre Dame's men's tennis team did not build much momentum. In­juries slowed the Irish as they recorded a disappointing 11-15 record in the three rounds of singles and doubles competi­tion. 
In its quest to the top ranks of collegiate tennis world, the Irish travelled to Ball State to clash heads with four of the eight top eight teams of the Big 10 --Purdue, Illinois, Iowa, and Wisconsin --as well as host Ball State, Miami (Ohio), and West­ern Michigan. 
"We learned that we are very human," said Bayliss. 
One Irish player, however, is playing out of this world. Paul Odland, the No. 6 player, downed his three foes to cap­ture his flight championship. On his way to victory Odland (5-1 for the season) conquered Greg Kennett of Illinois 6-4, 6-3 and Bryan Stoksteak of Iowa 6-3, 6-2. In the championship match Odland ignored a first set loss and respended with a 4-6, 6-3, 6-2 victory. 
"Odland carried the day," said Bayliss. "He did what he had to do to win." 
In other singles competition, the Irish experienced some physically brutal matches. No. 1 player Dave DiLucia bruised his shoulder in his first match of the compettition. He posted an overall record of 1-2 which placed him seventh in the num­ber one flight. 
Adding insult to injury, DiLucia was up 4-1 in the third set of his first No. 1 singles match only to go on to drop the set. But DiLucia's · did not stop him from knocking of Purdue's John Winegardneer 6­1, 6-0, in what Bayliss said was the most decisive match of the weekend. 
Brian Kalbas, the No. 2 player, placed second in his flight despite suffering a sprained thumb. Kalbas was edged by Claus Ramel of Iowa, 4-6, 6-3,6-3 in the championship match. 
"Brian's thumb was as big as a football," said Bayliss. "He could not hold the racket on Saturday." 
Adding to the injury list, Wal­ter Dohlare was forced to withdraw in the third round due to a chronic ankle problem. 
Sophmore Ryan Wenger could not end his seasonal woes, dropping all three of his matches. Wenger dropped his final match to Pep Llinas of Miami(Ohio), 3-6, 7-5,6-4 in his final match. At the No. 5 spot Dave Reiter came up winless posting an 0-3 record. 
In the doubles competition the Irish found better success. At the No. 1 spot, DiLucia and Dohlare dropped their first match, then Dolhare withdrew because of his ankle. But his replacement, Odland, teamed with DiLucia to to place third in the flight. The tandem defeated Pearne and Kennett of Illinois 6-2, 6-4, in the cham­pionship. The No.2 team of Mike Wallace and Dave Reiter won their flight in impressive fashion. They posted first and second round victories over Ritz and Lynch of Purdue, 6-3, 6-2 and Schneider and Mersberger of Wisconson, 1-6, 7-6, 6-2, respectively. In their championship match, the com­bination defeated Kaska and Demarchi of Ball State 4-6, 6-4, 6-4. 
AftENTION JUNIORS! 
Now acceplin8 applications for JPW Executive Committee! 
Available in Office of Student Activities or from Chris Boron in 241 P.W. 
Due b 5 Frida Oct. 14th 

Ifyou are considering graduate management studies, let us tell you about 
THE MICHIGAN MBA 
Office ofAdmissions School of Business Administration The University of Michigan Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-1234 313/763-5796 
The Observer page 11 
• 
-
., 
• 
~ 
· ' 
~­
At. 
,­

John Elway and the Denver Broncos won an In NFL action Sunday. Rich Karlls' 22-yard field overtime victory over the San Francisco 49ers goal gave the Broncos a 17-14 win. 
Cincinnati stays unbeaten in NFL 
Associated Press Boomer Esiason's three first-half touchdown passes kept the Cincinnati Bengals as the NFL's only unbeaten team Sunday, while five more quar­terbacks were sidelined with injuries. The Bengals are 6-0, match­ing the best start in the team's history. Esiason, the league's top­rated passer, burned the New York Jets with touchdown pass plays of 60 and eight yards to Eddie Brown and 38 yards to Tim McGee to help the Bengals overcome a safety and fumbles that led to an early 9-0 lead by the Jets. Cincinnati also got a pair of second-half touchdown runs from lckey Woods, who carried 30 times for 139 yards--the first 100-yard game of the rookie's career. The Jets, 3-2-1, took the lead when Esiason was sacked in the end zone by Lyons for a safety on Cincinnati's first play from scrimmage. On the Ben­gals' next offensive play, Stan­ley Wilson fumbled and Lyons recovered on the Cincinnati 7. 
Roger Vick's 1-yard run gave the Jets a 9-0 lead. 
Bears 24, Lions 7 
Jim McMahon completed eight of 11 passes for 78 yards, including an 11-yard touch­down to Dennis McKinnon, before leaving the game with a 
slight concussion  as  Chicago  
defeated  Detroit  in  Pontiac,  
Mich.  

The Bears, 5-1, remained in first place in the NFC Central Division, while the Lions, 1-5, lost quarterback Chuck Long with a sprained knee. 
Mike Tomczak replaced McMahon and completed 12 of 22 for 158 yards, including a 31­yard touchdown pass to Ron Morris. 
Rusty Hilger, who was signed Monday as a free agent, replaced Long and threw a 7­yard touchdown pass to Pete Mandley for the Lions' only score. 
Broncos 16, 49ers 13 OT 
A 22-yard field goal by Rich Karlis, set up by cornerback 

Rush University 
College of Nursing 
Presents 
A Continuum in Professional Education 
• 
Doctor of Nursing Science 

• 
Doctor of Nursing 

• 
Master of Science 

• 
Bachelor of Science 


# GRADUATE ENTRY LEVEL A new program for students w1th a bachelor's degree 1n a f1eld other than nurs.ng who WISh to enter nurs1ng Our 1ntegrated program pre­pares students for profess1onalllcensure and a graduate cl.nocal spec1a1ty (MS. NO or DNSc) 
DOCTOR OF NURSING The program of study leadmg to th1s degree assures preparallon 1n bas1c nurs1ng (pre-licensure) and advanced clin1cal spec1alizat1on It IS best understood as analogous to other profess1onal doctoral degrees like the Doctor of Junsprudence (J D). Doctor of Pharmacy (Pharm D). and the Doctor of Med1c1ne (M D) 
Rush Un1vers1ty. the academ1c component of 
Rush-Presbytenan-St Luke's Med1cal Center 
IS a leader 1n health care 
Rush Un1vers1ty 119 Schweppe-Sprague Hall 1743W Hamson Street-Ch1cago. IL 60612 312-942-5099 
Name 
Address _________Phone. 
C•ly ______Siale ______z,p ______ _ 
01 


Steve Wilson's interception, 
gave Denver an overtime vic­
tory over San Francisco, 4-2. 
Steve Young, who took over 
at quarterback for the 49ers 
after Joe Montana left with 
bruised ribs, threw a pass from 
his 3-yard line and Wilson 
caught the ball after it went off 
the hands of receiver Jerry 
Rice. Wilson returned seven 
yards to the San Francisco 5. 
One play later, Karlis made the 
winning kick. 
Packers 45, Patriots 3 
Playing at Milwaukee, Brent Fullwood rushed for three second-half touchdowns and Green Bay intercepted five passes in its first victory of the season. 
Green Bay, 1-5, scored two touchdowns in the final five minutes of the second quarter for a 17-3 halftime lead. Ful­lwood finished with a career­high 118 yards on 14 carries. 
Kenneth Davis' 8-yard run with 2:59 to go capped the scoring as the Packers produced their most points since a 45-17 win over Min­nesota in 1984. 
Oilers 7, Chiefs 6 
Backup quarterback Brent Pease threw three early pass interceptions, but ran four yards for a touchdown and Toni Zendejas kicked the extra point in the third quarter to give Houston the victory over Kansas City. 
Pease replaced Cody Carlson, who fractured the thumb on his throwing hand with 33 seconds left in the first half. 
'Skins 35, Cowboys 17 
Mark Rypien threw three touchdown passes and ran for another to rally Washington over Dallas. Kelvin Bryant caught two scoring passes, ran for a touchdown and rushed for 118 yards as the defending Super Bowl champions evened their record at 3-3. Dallas is 2-4. 
In other action, it was New Orlenas 23, San Diego 17; Miami 24, L.A. Raiders 14; Pheonix 31, Pittsburgh 14; Min­nesota 14, Tampa Bay 13; Seattle 16, Cleveland 10; and L.A. Rams 33, Atlanta 10. 
Monday night, the New York Giants will be at Philadelphia. 

r-------p-a_g_e_1_2 ~ 
LSU beats 4th-ranked Auburn; Columbia wins 
----~~----------~---~--:~Observer 
Monday, October 10, 1988 

\ 
Pitt 
continued from page 16 
Green, Rice, Anthony Johnson and Braxston Banks. Rice was 8-of-14 in the air, for 97 yards and two interceptions. 
Pitt took the early lead on its second drive of the game as Dickerson threw a perfect 42­yard touchdown pass to Reggie Williams. The Irish responded with a two-yard run by Rice to tie the game, and the teams traded touchdowns and field goals to tie at 17 until Banks' one-yard run with 34 seconds remaining in the third quarter put the Irish ahead to stay 23­17. 
The Kaplan field goal and an eight-yard struggle into the end zone by Green on the remainder of the drive after the 12 men were caught on the field, making the final score 30­20. 
EXTRA POINTS--Offensive guards Tim Grunhard and Tim Ryan both went down with in­juries at Pitt. Grunhard tore a ligament in his ankle on 
Banks 
continued from page 16 
cause you're not going to exe­cute what you need to do." 
Because the Michigan State astroturf was partly respon­sible for his knee injury, it seemed a little unlucky to bring Banks back for the last game Notre Dame will play on Johnson's one-yard touchdown run in the first quarter, and Ryan sprained his shoulder. Both are listed as doubtful for the Miami game Saturday. 
Saturday's Game Notre Dame 14 3 6 7 -30 Pitt 7733-20 
Scoring PITT-Williams 42-yard pass from Dickerson (Kaplan kick) NO-Rice 2-yard run (Ho kick) NO-Johnson 1-yard run (Ho kick) PITT-Tuten 33-yard pass from Dickerson (Kaplan kick) ND-Ho 37-yard field goal PITT-Kaplan 44-yard field goal NO-Banks 1-yard run (kick failed) PITT-Kaplan 34-yard field goal NO-Green 8-yard run (Ho kick) 
ND Pitt First downs 27 23 Rushing attempts 72 34 Net Yards Rushing 310 171 Net Yards Passing 96 209 Passes camp-attempted 8-14 12-25 Had intercepted 2 1 Total Net Yards 406 380 Fumbles-lost 1-1 4-2 Penalties-yards 8-83 6-50 Punts-average 1-37.0 3-48.0 
Individual Leaders 
RUSHING-Notre Dame: Brooks 17-105; Green 19-83; Rice 11-69; Johnson 13-26; Banks 7-14; Eilers 2-12; Watters 3-1. Pitt: Richards 17-78; Dickerson 11-76; Crossman 3-9; Redmon 2-4; Tuten 1-4. 
PASSING-Notre Dame: Rice 8-14-2, 97. Pitt: Dickerson 12-25-1, 209. 
RECEIVING-Notre Dame: Banks 2-36; Brooks 1-20; Johnson 1-13; lsmail1-11; Brown 1-11; Eilers 1-6; Watters 1-0. Pitt: Tuten 4-76; Williams 3-58; Crossman 2-32; Kirk 2-21; Osborn 1-22. 
Attendance-56,500 
astroturf. But the halftime rain which made for a slippier field may have been a blessing in disguise. 
"It possibly could have helped," said Banks. The way I hurt it in the first place was my shoe gripped to the turf, and the rest of my body turned, but my leg didn't. So I'm sure it did help a little bit. I'm afraid of turf, believe me." 


yards of total offense in the yards, leading Columbia to its "I think they're a shoo-in for first two periods. first victory since a 21-18 defeat the conference title, but anyth­of Yale on Oct. 15, 1983. ing can happen in this league," Columbia 16, Princeton 13 The Lions had become the said Wilhelm, who completed laughing stock of college foot­28 of 48 passes for 309 yards and 
The Losing Streak is over. ball during the stretch --even three touchdowns. The Lions won a game after on the Columbia campus. Fans 
No. 3 Southern Cal 42,

five years and 44 games when unused to celebrating stormed Solomon Johnson scored from onto the field, tore down both No. 18 Oregon 14 the 2 with 5: 13 to play. sets of goalposts and smeared 
It was open season on theJohnson's touchdown run themselves with mud at the Ducks, who entered the gamecapped a 53-yard drive for Co­final gun. 

with the second-best defense in lumbia, 1-3, after Princeton, 2­No. 2 UCLA 38, Oregon the Pac-10. But there was a2, had taken a 13-9 lead. 
good reason for what turned"This is what you dread," State 21 into a poor performance in the Princeton coach Steve Tosches Coliseum.
said. "Life can be cruel. We Troy Aikman completed 24 of "Our defense was on the field were not the better team on the 36 passes for 288 yards and four too long,'' Oregon coach Richfield today. They deserve the touchdowns in a duel with Brooks said. "They eventually victory.'' Beavers quarterback Erik Wil­wore us down."
Greg Abbruzzese ran for 182 helm. ~-"'!!IIIJJ 

The Gegen has details of Banks' return, beginning on page 16. 
What happens from now ... 

ment is near, or years away, NOW is the time to  You'll get valuable infor· mation on how to make  Ramada Inn 52890 U.S. Route 33 North  
make sure it's everything  the right choices about  South Bend, Indiana  
you want it to be. At a T/AA-CRt"F and Thur Financial Future seminar,  your future, and you'll have the chance to ask questions about retire­ Monday, October 24, 1988 at 6 p.m.  
a team of experienced  ment planning. Join us,  Tuesday, October 25, 1988  
retirement counselors will  and find out how impor·  at 2 p.m. or at 6 p.m.  
explain how your TIAA and  tant-and how easy-it is  
CREF annuities can help  to prepare for a great  
your dreams come true.  retirement!  

Ifyou'd like to attend, just call TIAA-CREF at 1 800.842-2733, ext. 2983. 


Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association ~ollege Retirement Equities Fund 
Insuring The Future For Those Who Shape /t_sm 
Associated Press 
What's the most feared foot­ball stadium in the United States? 
A 1987 College Football Asso­ciation poll of the nation's 104 Division 1-A head coaches ranked LSU's Tiger Stadium as No. 1. 
It's doubtful Auburn coach Pat Dye would disagree. 
His unbeaten Tigers went into Saturday night's contest in Death Valley with the fourth­best offense in the nation and the third-best defense. They crawled out with a 7-6 defeat after LSU quarterback Tommy Hodson hit tailback Eddie Ful­ler with a dramatic fourth-down, 11-yard touchdown pass with 1:41 to play and David Browndyke kicked the extra point. 
"I'm exhausted. I don't have anything left," said Hodson, who was 6-of-14 for 74 yards on the final drive. "Talk about leaving it all on the field ... That's the only pass I had left in me. If football was a five­down game, I don't know if I had it in me." 
Auburn's defense lived up to its billing. Despite the deafen­ing cheers from the crowd of 79,431, fourth-largest in Tiger Stadium history, LSU never got beyond its 44-yard line in the first half and managed only 54 

Monday, October 10, 1988 
Irish finish sixth behind Rice, Filar 
By MARY GARINO 
Sports Writer 
There was good news and bad news for the Notre Dame wo­men's cross country team as it placed sixth at the Notre Dame Invitational Friday. 
The good news was the per­formances of Notre Dame's top three runners, Theresa Rice, Linda Filar and Lucy Nusrala. Rice, in her final home meet, finished third and recorded her best time ever at the Burke Memorial Golf Course, 18:21. Filar followed up on last week's encouraging effort by crossing the finish line in lOth place. Next was Nusrala, who was 13th. 
The bad news is that the two runners who filled out the top 5 for the Irish, Terese Lemanski and Kevaleen Ryan, came in 50th and 58th, respec­tively, giving Notre Dame a total of 134 points, 54 behind the champion, Ohio University. Women's coach Tim Connelly conceded that this has been a recurring problem for his team. 
"A couple of individuals ran well, but our fourth and fifth runners fell off," Connelly said. "It's the same thing every week." 
Rice, a senior and the captain of the Irish squad, said that the team will be stronger when Jenny Ledrick returns to form and Terry Kibelstis recovers from an injury. Led rick finished in 77th place out of the 90 runners in the Invitational, her first race this season, and 
tAMERICAN CANCER SOCIETYS 
The Observer 
Kibelstis was a spectator. 
Rice also said that the field was very competitve, although it was not as tough as last week's National Catholics. Fol­lowing Ohio U in the standings were Western Ontario, Wisconsin-Oshkosh, Bowling Green and Kent State. 
During the race, Rice, Filar and Nusrala ran the first mile together in the lead. Gradually some of the rest of the runners overtook them, but the triv stayed in contention. 
"It was a comfortable first mile. We paced each other," 
said Rice.  "The results  were  
good."  
For Rice, the results  were  

better than good, they were out­standing. She was beaten only by two women from Wisconsin­Oshkosh, Tiffany Fox and Cheryl Niederberger. It was a fitting way for Rice to race for the last time at Notre Dame. 
"I was glad I ran as well as I did," she said. 
Filar was also impressive. She came through for the Irish for the second consecutive meet, having finished fifteenth at the National Catholics. She also trimmed 16 seconds off her time from last week, moving up from 19:19 to 19:03. 
"I started quicker than I wanted to," the junior from Michigan said, "but the way the three of us ran together in­timidated and surprised a lot of people." 
Connelly pointed out, however, that three good ef­forts are not enough to win races, especially against the quality teams in the Invitation­al. He wants contributions from the lower part of the lineup. 
"It's a team sport," he said, "and we didn't do well as a team." 
One of the team's goals is to improve from one meet to the next, and the Irish runners will have two weeks until their next meet at USC on October 22 to work on their performances. 
TheCreditCard 
ThatLetsYou 
ShoQInMoreThan 
60Countries. 


Memorial Golf Course. Scott Brutacao has details below. 
Men settle for fourth at ND Invite 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
The men's cross country team faced a setback on Friday, tying for fourth place at the 33rd Annual Notre Dame Invitational at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
Central Michigan edged out Michigan for the victory, ac­cumulating 79 points to Mic­higan's 91. Notre Dame had 154, which gave them a tie with Eastern Michigan for fourth overall. 
The problem, as predicted, was not the front runners, but the gap in between the first and fifth man. 
The situation did not improve when junior Mike O'Connor, the number three runner for the Irish, was unable to finish the race due to a nagging leg injury. 
Nor did the Irish gain any ground when fifth-year senior Rick Mulvey, shaking off an in­jury to participate in his first meet this season, twisted his ankle in a warmup right before the meet. 
"We didn't run really well," said Head Coach Joe Piane. "But why dwell on the setbacks and injuries?" 
Piane is referring to the spec­tacular running from his num­ber one and two men senior captain and All-American Dan Garrett and senior Ron Markezich. 
Garrett just missed winning the race, as he was unable to catch Bill Tavlor from Central Michigan at the finish line. Taylor ran the five-mile course in 23:51.7, while Garrett ran a very commendable 23:52.4, his best time to date on a five-mile course. 
Markezich also had an out­standing race, finishing right behind Garrett, taking third place in 23:57.7, which is also his best time to date. 
"Garrett and Markezich ran extremely well," said Piane. "I have to be very pleased with them. They ran a perfect race up to the last 100 or 200 yards." 
Michigan's John Scherer, who was defending champion of the Invitational, finished a full ten seconds behind Markezich for fourth place. He improved his time over last year's meet, but the top run­
ners  this  year  were  much  
stronger.  
Junior  Tom  O'Rourke  

finished 25th for the Irish in 25:03.7, also his best time. 
Rounding out the results for the Irish, sophomore Matt Ron­zone finished 58th in 25:39.9, sophomore Ryan Cahill finished 66th in 25: 58.5, and 
Rick ended a_ -··-~··· Irish performance in 74th place with a time of 26:09.1. 

With a healthy Mike O'Connor the Irish would have fared better, but still would not have come close to winning the meet. 
O'Rourke offered a bit of op­timism in this less-than­desirable outcome. 
"It was a good awakening for us," O'Rourke said. "We might have been getting a little cocky, because all of the runners up to this date have been dying in front of us and letting us win." 
"We don't have to change anything," agreed Piane. "We just have to realize people will not roll over and die because we have 'Notre Dame' on our chest. 
"We have to run up to our capabilities and get healthy," he continued. ''Getting healthy is the most important thing. We had the capability to win this race." 
The Irish now have a two­week break before facing USC away on October 22. What steps do the Irish take now to get back on track? 
"We're going to take these two weeks and go back to the drawing board," said Ryan Cahill. "We know we're one of the best teams in the country 
have to run up to our 
" 

• 

---~ ~---------­
I @[ft)(Q] !ID@llit®lf ~[ffi@[ft) ®W®lf I I I I I 
I I I 9]]][; DillriJD®ill ffi®®ffi®®illI I I
1 Dogbook individual portraits for all Juniors, both on 1 
~ & off campus,& both ND & SMC 
! 

I 
Monday October 10 from 4:30-8:30 LeMans Hall at SMC 1 Tuesday & Wednesday October 11 & 12 from 7-11 1 I & I 
1 Thursday October 13 from 4:30-8:30 I 1 
in Room 003 basement of LaFortune

1 1 
I I
You don't want to be recognized from the geeky freshman picture 1
1

1 your mom sent in, do you? Don't you want to find out what new & 1 1 interesting SYR dates you could get from changing this image? Solve I I both problems at one~, show the new you to the rest of the Class of I 
%J.1,_. 
AP Photo 

Dennis Eckersley, who had a record four saves, was named the Most Valuable Player of the American League Championship Series as the Oakland A's swept the Boston Red Sox In four games to move on to the World Series. 
The Observer Monday, October 10, 1988 
L.A. wins to knot series 2-2 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK --Kirk Gibson homered with two outs in the 12th inning and Orel Hershiser, who twice failed to win games as a starter, got the final out as the Los Angeles Dodgers beat the New York Mets 5-4 to even the National League playoffs at two games apiece. 
Hershiser, called into a bases-loaded, two-out situation as the seventh Dodgers pitcher of the day, got Kevin McReynolds on a pop fly to cen­ter fielder John Shelby. 
Alejandro Pena got .the vic­tory with three innings of hit­less relief as the Dodgers played without reliever Jay Howell. Howell was suspended Sunday for using an illegal sub­stance in his glove. Howell, who led the Dodgers with 21 saves, was ejected in the eighth inning of Game 3 on Saturday when pine tar was found on the heel of his glove. 
Howell was suspended for three days by NL president Bart Giamatti and would be el­igible for Game 7, if the series goes that far. 

Game 5 of the best-of-seven series is scheduled Monday at 
12:08 p.m. EDT, giving the teams less than 12 hours to recover. 
Left-bander Sid Fernandez will pitch against rookie Tim Belcher, winner of Game 2 at Los Angeles. 
Mets starter Dwight Gooden carried a three-hit, 4-2lead into the ninth inning. But Gooden, who had walked four, thrown two wild pitches and commit­ted a balk, got into trouble again when he walked Shelby leading off the inning. Then Dodgers catcher Mike Sciosia homered into the right-field bullpen to tie it. It was the Dodgers' first home run in 47 innings, including the last 13 in­nings of the regular season. 
The Mets rallied for victories in Games 1 and 3, but this time it was the Dodgers' turn. 
Reliever Roger McDowell got the first two outs in the 12th before Gibson homered deep over the right field fence to break a 1-for-16 playoff batting slump. Gibson, who has been playing with a painful hamstr­ing strain, led the Dodgers with 25 homers but hadn't homered since Sept. 11. 
Tim Leary, a 17-game winner for the Dodgers, attempted to close out the game in the bot­tom of the 12th. But Mackey Sasser and pinch-hitter Lee Mazzilli leading off the inning. Gregg Jefferies, after failing to get down a sacrifice bunt, flied out to left and former Met Jesse Orosco relieved. 
Orosco walked Keith Her­nandez on a 3-2 count to load the bases, then got Darryl Strawberry on a popout to second. 
Darryl Strawberry and Kevin McReynolds hit consecu­tive home runs off John Tudor in the fourth inning to give New York a 3-2 lead. 
Oakland 
continued from page 16 
Burks' leadoff single in the eighth and Honeycutt immedi­ately got Marty Barrett to ground into a double play. Eck­ersley pitched the ninth to get his fourth save in as many games. 
Dwight Evans, the only player on either team who par­ticipated in Boston's 1975 playoff victory over Oakland, did not help the Red Sox. He 
r-------· 
! I I 
struck out with the bases loaded to end the first inning -­he was 6-for-12 with the bases loaded in the regular season ­and fanned with the tying run on second base to end the sixth. 
Oakland won an AL west­record 104 games, one season after Minnesota won the pen­nant with 85 victories. The Ath­letics' sweep marked for the first time since division play began in 1969 that two different AL west teams have gone to the World Series in successive years. 
Boston, whose 89 victories were the fewest for any AL east title in a full season, lost its final three games of the year and continued to wobble. Manager Joe Morgan, a 
miracle worker after inheirit­ing a fourth-place team when John McNamara was fired at the All-Star break, could do little as the Red Sox fell. 
Canseco, the only hitless Oakland player in a 10-6 romp in Game 3, struck back with vengeance. He went 3-for-4 with a homer and double to wind up 5-for-16 in the series. 
Canseco, the first player to 
~~~ ® liD®©~ 

hit 40 home runs and steal 40 bases in the same season, sin­gled in the eighth against Lee Smith, stole second and scored on Mark McGwire's single. 
Oakland's other run came in the third. Walt Weiss and Car­ney Lansford singled and Dave Henderson, Boston's playoff hero in 1986, hit an RBI double. The Athletics missed a chance to break open the game in that inning as Hurst got Canseco on a short fly, intentionally walked McGwire to load the bases and retired Dave Parker 
·-------• 
I I I 
and Terry Steinbach. 

That was enough, though, to the delight of 49,406 fans that chanted "sweep, sweep," throughout the sunny after­noon. Many in the crowd came carrying brooms to help whisk away the Red Sox. 
Oakland led the league with a 3.42 earned-run average and was second to Boston with 800 runs. The Athletics out­homered the Red Sox 13-1 in head-to-head meetings during the season and 7-2 in the playoffs. 
11 1990 & come aet yourdoi.~~.f.icture uodated. 11 
.~. 
Monday, October 10, 1988 
The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
7:00p.m. Career and Placement Services presents "Job Search Techniques for International Students," by Ms. Marilyn Bury, Assistant Director, in the Career and Placement Library. 
7:00p.m. Rome Program Information Session with Prof. Peter Checca, SMC, Carroll Auditorium. 
7:00 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "Les Carabiners," directed by Jean-Luc Goddard, Annen­berg Auditorium. 
9:00 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "You Only Live Once," directed by Fritz Lang, Annen berg Auditorium. 
DINNER rvlENUS 
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Southern Fried Chicken  Pork Chop  
Sweet & Sour Pork  French Dip  
Fettucini Alfredo  Cheese Tortellini  
Gyro  Deli Bar  


COMICS 
• 

Bloom County 
Wll5HIN&TVN llCTeP: TlE 
f(}((/t/1/nON Of Til£ .. 5~lP­
10NIC IN~KPICTION 116eNCY 
W/15 IINN(}()NC£P-
Jerks 
ACROSS 
I Demolished 
6"Git­fustest with the mostest" 
10 Mud puddle 14 "Abie's­
Rose" 15 Davenport milieu 
16 Cordage fiber 17 Gulf of-,off 
New Guinea 18 Historic times 19 Army outfit 
"20 Warm-weather 
attire 23 Kind of pal 24 Haw's partner 25 Cluck of 
disapproval 28 Exchange informally 
31 Stormed 35 Math problem 37 Give forth 39 Hot spot 41 Dangerous 
section on the Atlantic 44 React to a 
June moon 45 Sixty minutes 46 Equipment 47 Theme 49 Peter 
Jennings's 
field 51 Color 52 Anonymous 
Richard 54 Under the 
weather 56 Island export 63 Presage 64 Join the chorus 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

65 Loses heat 67 Forearm bone 68 Ending for 
Jean or Nan 69 Poly attachment 70 Betelgeuse or Streisand 71 Essential being 72 Accomplish­ments 
DOWN 
1 Gymnastic feat 2 Yemeni or Omani 3 Tobacco 
holder 4 Seize illegally 5 London's river 6 United 7 Rumanian 
dange. 8 Wave-tossed 9 Serving of 
bacon 10 Urge 11 Dryer clogger 12 Elevator name 13 Dab 21 i6ng le 22 <'rate City of 
the West 25 Keep-on(observe) 26 Crinkly fabric 
27 Edible 
submarines 29 Chinese 
nursemaid 


30 Mountaineer's spike 32 Kind of plank or way  42 Deprive of weapons 43 Hale of golf fame  58 Kind of admiral 59 Picnic pests  
33 Rimmed  48 "Oh, sa_r can  60 Curved  
34 Stall 36 Biblical prophet 38 Faithful or factual 40 Dried up  50 Cut thin 53 Redacts 55 At liberty 56 Secure 57 Ferber or Millay  molding 61 Do,e.g. 62 Snow vehicle 63 lnge's"­Stop" 66 Former jrs.  

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
1/f~f{ 3 lt/ONTHS IINP /1150 MILi.IOf.l, .011 % Of /Ill. me 5/rffh&(£fl1lJNIC Wl/5 Tf(/1//t/­
fliiiNTl.Y IN"mf?PIC~/?. 
Bob Mclaughlin & Kevin McKay 





-~ ---------~----------­
Sports

Monday, October 10, 1988 page 16 
Irish escape Pitt with 30-20 victory 
Panther errors open door for ND 
By THERESA KELLY and scored. It was a mistake Assistant Sports Editor that never should have hap­pened." 
PITTSBURGH --For the Pitt "I couldn't believe it," Pitt Panthers, it was case of three punt returner Alonzo Hampton too many Notre Dame runners, said, "especially since I'm the two too many fumbles and one one who is supposed to count too many men on the field. the players. I didn't get it done, 
For Notre Dame, it was one and it turned the game around-. less monkey off its back. We always seem to make one 
The Irish beat the Panthers little mistake, and the other 30-20 Saturday in the first-half team always seems to capi­sun and second-half drizzle at talize." · Pitt Stadium, taking advan­Other mistakes that Pitt tage of three crucial Pitt would like to take back in-miscues to break the Panthers' cluded the opening-drive • 
\ 

three-game winning streak fumble by Curvin Richards on 
over the Irish. the Notre Dame two-yard line. 
"It's like anything else," said Richards was hit by Todd Irish coach Lou Holtz. "If you Lyght, coughed up the ball, and give someone a chance, and lost the recovery to Chris they're good, then they'll take Zorich. Pitt wasted another advantage of it." scoring chance when quarter­
Tony Brooks, Mark Green back Darnell Dickerson, 1 he Observer 1 John Studebaker and Tony Rice combined for 257 heading in for a touchdown, Irish tailback Mark Green lunges for the The Notre Dame running game scored four yards as Notre Dame's strong fumbled the ball across the 
touchdown that put the Irish out of the reach of touchdowns In the game. Details appear at left.
running game totalled 310 Irish goal line, missed two 
the Pitt Panthers 30-20 Saturday in Pittsburgh.

yards and four touchdowns. chances to recover it, and Unlike the Panthers' 30-22 watched Irish cornerback Stan victory at Pitt Stadium last Smagala cover the ball for a 
Irish go to the Banks for insurance
year, the Irish held a 17-14 lead Notre Dame touchback. at the half Saturday. Pitt tied "It was frustrating, because the game in the third, but the I can't figure out what hap­By PETE GEGEN how it felt, and he said, 'It's On the first third-down situa­Irish wore down the Panthers pened," Dickerson said. "The 
Sports Writer sore, coach.' I really wanted to tion after the Irish got the ball to take the lead and the win. rain had just started, but I hold him out. But it was a case back on Pitt's 12-men penalty,
The turning point came in the can't really blame it on that. I PITTSBURGH --You where we just couldn't do Banks laid a crushing lead fourth quarter. With 11:45 to guess I just didn't tuck it away. couldn't help but cringe when, that." block to free Tony Brooks for play, the Panthers' Scott I couldn't believe it." on his first play since returning With the score tied at 17 in the first down. Then on third­Kaplan hit a 34-yard field goal From the Pitt perspective, it from a knee injury, fullback the third quarter, Banks led the and-two from the Pitt 19, Banks to cut the Irish lead to 23-20. was a game they should have Braxston Banks took the fake go-ahead scoring drive with a bounced out of the hands of two Pitt held the Irish to minus­won. From the Irish point of from Rice on the option, then 30-yard reception, another Pitt defenders at the line of three yards on three plays, and view, they were happy to get took a shot to the knees from a recption for a first down on a scrimmage and got the first Jim Sexton was in to punt the out of Pittsburgh with a win. Pitt lineman. third-and-six play, and the down. football to the Panthers on "Make no mistake, I'm Banks' knee survived, carry for the touchdown. On He did all this on the rain­
·fourth down and 13. proud of our team," said Holtz, despite being rushed into ser­three rushes and two catches soaked Pitt Stadium astroturf, 
With the snap, 11 Pitt players who takes an undefeated team vice Saturday at Pitt Stadium Banks took the football41 of the running the risk that he could went for the block and one was into the matchup with Miami. just three weeks since tearing final 43 yards. aggravate the sore knee. Yet back to return. That's 12 "We beat a very good team in a ligament at Michigan State. " (Coach Holtz) never really he played like the same old players, and that's a penalty. Pitt. But we are really banged After the astroturf took its toll told me I needed to play," said Banks. And because all12 players par­up and beat up. I'm really con­on Anthony Johnson's sore Banks. "It was just under­"I really wasn't thinkingticipated in the play, it was a cerned with where we go from ankle, Banks came on to spark stood. A.J.'s been hurting. He's about my Jsnee," said Banks. 15-yard personal-foul penalty, here." Notre Dame's final two scoring playing with a lot of pain, and "But right now I think its to the not the usual "12 men on the The Notre Dame running drives with a two-yard touch­he's doing a great job. It's just point where it's more mental field" 5-y?..~ ~nalty. game again led the way, down run and several impor­a question of how long he can than anything else. When 
"It was really a key error on scoring all four Notre Dame tant first-down conversions. last." you're in there, you can't really 
our part," Pitt coach Mike Got­touchdowns, one each by "I really didn't (want to play Banks also keyed Notre think about what's hurting be­tfried said. "It kept the drive Banks)," said Holtz, "because Dame's final drive which putalive for them, and they went 
see PITT, page 12 before the game I asked him the score out of reach at 30-20. see BANKS, page 12 
Oakland powers by Sox
ND upsets 8th ranked 'Cats 
to win AL pennant 4-0 
Associated Press The Athletics also got some and nine blocks. LisaSpecial to The Observer victory, registering 19 kills Wildcats since Oct. 1986. 
long-due revenge against Bos­The Notre Dame volley­Bokovoy had 32 kills and five The Irish have the entire 
OAKLAND, Calif.--The Oak­ton, which swept Oakland out ball team upset No. 8 Ken­blocks for the Wildcats. week off before traveling to 
land Athletics, showing off the of the 1975 playoffs and ended tucky 15-13, 12-15, 15-9, 16-14 Notre Dame improves to California for fall break. 
pitching and power that m·ade its run of three consecutive at Lexington Saturday. 9-5 on the season, while Ken­Their first match will be 
them baseball's winningest championships. Mary Kay Waller led the tucky falls to 14-2. It was the Tuesday, Oct. 18 against 
team, completed a four-game The Red Sox, whose longest Irish to their fifth straight first home loss for the Pacific. 
sweep in the American League losing string during the regular playoffs by beating the Boston season was four games, picked Red Sox 4-1 Sunday. a bad time to duplicate that 
I 
Jose Canseco, the major streak. The Athletics league leader in home runs, dominated Boston this year,
Zips beat soccer team in OT 
tied an AL playoff record with going 13-3 and winning all eight his third home run of the series in Oakland, giving them 15 vic­
and Dennis Eckersley, the tories over the Red Sox in the
~ 
I 
leader in saves, set a major last 16 meetings in Oakland.
Special to The Observer Notre Dame's second-half ron, 8-4-2, at 29:46. Cormack league playoff mark with his Canseco, the major league' comeback. McEvoy extended the Zips' fourth save as he finished a home run leader with 42, hit aLaci Jalics scored on a Notre Dame, 10-1-2, lead to 2-0 with his goal at four-hitter for Dave Stewart solo shot in the first inning and direct kick in overtime as trailed 2-0 at halftime before 42:23. 
and Rick Honeycutt. tied George Brett's AL playoffAkron handed the Notre tying the game with two The Athletics returned to the record. Canseco has hit fiveDame soccer team its first goals in a span of less than Akron was ranked second World Series for the first time home runs in 26 career at-batsloss 3-2 Sunday at Akron. two minutes. John Guignon in the Great Lakes Region since 1974. Game 1 will be Sat­against loser Bruce Hurst, in­scored the first goal at 48: 30, heading into the game, while urday night in either New York cluding one in Game 1.
After a penalty just out­and Mitch Kern knocked in Notre Dame was ranked or Los Angeles. Stewart made the early lead side the box, Jalics beat Irish the equalizer at 50: 15. fourth. The Irish next face Oakland posted the first four­stand up, allowing only Jimkeeper Danny Lyons with John Vravlic opened the DePaul on Thursday at game sweep since 1976, when Rice's RBI grounder in thethe ensuing kick, offsetting scoring for 17th-ranked Ak-Moose Krause Stadium. 
Cincinnati's Big Red Machine sixth. Stewart left after Ellis rolled over the New York Yankees in the World Series. see OAKLAND, page 14 
-----------------------------------------------------------~ 

