
VOL. XXIII NO. 32 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

ND language dept. divided into 3 parts 
Change is currently in effect 

By JANICE O'LEARY 
News Copy Editor 
The Arts and Letters lan­guage department, previously called the department of mod­ern and classical languages, has been reorganized into three new departments: German and Russian languages and litera­tures, classical and oriental languages and literatures, and romance languages and litera­tures. 
The languages were grouped into these three categories in accordance with their similari­ties, said Dean of the College of Arts and Letters Michael Loux. 
AP Photo 
German and Russian have historical as well as cultural
East German demonstrators stage a peaceful sit-in on a junction in downtown East Berlin Saturday 
linkages and the connection
night. They demanded democratic reforms and shouted "Gorby help us" in reference to Soviet President 
between romance languages is
Mikhail Gorbachev who was in East Berlin on the 40th anniversary of the German Democratic Republic. 
obvious, he said. 
The relationship between classical and oriental languages is a more ancient one, said
'At least' 70,000 march in Leipzig 
David Ladouceur, chairman and 
Associated Press 
BERLIN-Tens of thou­sands of demonstrators marched and shouted "We need freedom!" in Leipzig on Monday during the largest pro-democracy rally in East Germany since a 1953 work­ers' uprising, witnesses said. 
Protesters also held a vigil in East Berlin to demand democratic reforms after a weekend of demonstrations across this hard-line Commu­nist nation. 
On Saturday and Sunday, clashes broke out between po­lice and demonstrators with hundreds arrested, several in­juries, and one death reported by news organizations and witnesses. The government has issued no official toiL 

Christoph Wonneberger, pastor for the Lukas Lutheran Church in Leipzig, said "at least" 70,000 demonstrators marched in Leipzig on Monday night. 
Wonneberger said he was surprised by the restraint of police and paramilitary troops who were deployed nearby. 
"Even though this demon­stration is the largest (since 1953), to our knowledge it went off completely without violence," he said in a tele­phone interview with West Germany's ZDF television network. 
In 1953, Soviet forces crushed a workers' uprising. 
Some Leipzig demonstrators even "began conversations with paramilitary troops" after the crowd started dis-
Senate debate over racially offensive remarks goes on 

By SANDRA WIEGAND 
News Copy Editor 
Verbal complaints are not a satisfactory method of combat­ting faculty who make racially offensive remarks, said Rob Price, president of the Black Cultural Arts Council at the Student Senate meeting yester­day. 
Presently, all complaints to the provost's office are verbal, and often no complaints are on file for a specific faculty mem­ber because the complaints are not in written form, said Price. 
In regard to a recent incident Price said: "We wanted to meet with the provost and with the professor to discuss this issue ... so that they could be aware of what was happening. The provost told us that we can't make that move because this professor has no file. Our point was, you have no method of complaint, no form so that we can get complaints in his file ... 
the procedure is no procedure basically." 
"I think that there should be something where we are con­scious of exactly what to do, where to channel our com­plaints." he added. 
Student Senator Sigi Loya, who is working with minority club presidents, said they would be drawing up a proposal for the provost on this issue. 
The presentation of a pro­posal to the administration for a security escort service was approved at the senate meeting. 
The proposal will be given to Director of Security Rex Rakow this week and Student Activities will be contacted about the prospect of basing the service in LaFortune. 
Gina Mahony, the student who drew up the proposal, hopes to meet with the adminis­tration within the next week to receive their approval. 
If the proposal is approved, 
see SENATE I page 8 

partments) offers "more per­sonal attention for the stu­dents," Lanzinger said. He also hopes that the reorganization will provide a closer interaction among the faculty. 
The department's main goal is "to achieve bilingual compe­tence" through language in­struction, and to then build on that knowledge with a focus on literature, Lanzinger said. 
Associate Professor and Chairwoman of the romance languages and literatures de­partment JoAnn Della Neva stated that her first goal is to "really improve lower-level lan­guage courses." She has insti­tuted a video-oriented French class and would like to expand the concept. 
She also stresses communica­tion and improved speaking ability. 
Della Neva stated that her second goal is to improve and expand the graduate program by offering a graduate degree in Italian next year. 
Since the titles of the new departments include literature, each department is emphasizing this aspect. "Literature is really what the program is about," Della Neva said. It is only through reading the great works of a language that you can improve upon your under­standing and skills in that lan­guage, she added .. 
The German and Russian lan­guages and literatures depart­ment will be having an inaugu­ral AT&T Visiting Scholar lec­ture series about Russian and German literatures, as is the romance languages and Litera­tures department. 
The classical and oriental languages and literatures de­partment is also sponsoring an inaugural lecture series bring-
see FOREIGN I page 8 
persing by mid-evening, Won­neberger said. 
He said, "I consider this (police restraint) a very hopeful sign following the vio­lence" in earlier demonstra­tions. 
Police clubbed pro-democ­racy protesters in six East German cities over the week­end and an opposition leader said that unless the govern­ment eases its policies, vio­lence may increase. 
Before the Leipzig march, officials of the Leipzig Com­munist Party promised pub­licly they would push for an open dialogue between citizens and the government, church sources said. 

associate professor of classical and oriental languages and lit­eratures. 
Having all the languages grouped into one department makes it "difficult for the de­partment to set common goals," Loux said. With three separate departments, each one will "be able to proceed with their own research agendas," he added. 
The division has been effective as of the beginning of the fall semester. Hopefully it will cre­ate more classes and thus de­crease class size, said Klaus Lanzinger, chairman and pro­fessor of German and Russian languages and literatures. 
He said that since the de­partments each have their own office in O'Shaughnessey Hall, the faculty is more available for consultation with the students. 
This division (into three de-


Tuesday, October 10, 1989 
page 2 The Observer 
WORLD BRIEFS 


The Grim Reaper knocks 
A 22-1 /2-foot-tall paper clip was unveiled outside a busi­ness college Monday to honor the Norwegian who invented the of­fice helper 90 years ago. The paper clip, weighing a desk-crushing 

when seniors interview 
1,320 pounds, is a faithful copy of Norwegian Johan Vaaler's 1899 invention, said Per Langanker of the Norwegian School of Management. "The paper clip is 100 percent accurate and fully functional if anyone has big enough paper," said Langanker, 23, of the school's student committee. The paper clip was made from steel tubing and is mounted on a 6-ton concrete base outside the institute in Baerum, an Oslo suburb. 
Pope John Paul II began a visit to the world's most populous Moslem nation Monday with a message of friendship and assurances that his Roman Catholic flock was loyal to Indonesia. In an atmosphere of controversy over a scheduled stop in East Timor, a predominantly Catholic former Portuguese territory annexed by Indonesia in 1976, John Paul sought to make clear that Catholics were no threat to the archipelago's unity. "I have come as a friend to all Indonesians, with a great respect for all the people of this dynamic nation," he said. 
NATO on Monday began a month-long naval exercise in the western Mediterranean that includes forces from Spain and France. France and Spain, which are not part of NATO's inte­grated military structure, are joining the "Deterrence Force" ex­ercise as part of normal training relations with the allies, NATO said. Greece, which declined to take part in the "Display Determi­nation" maneuvers last month in the eastern Mediterranean, sent the frigate Elli to take part in the current exercise that ends Nov. 14. 
' 

NATIONAL BRIEFS 
Penny Lernoux, a prize-winning journalist and author noted for books on the role of the Catholic Church in Latin America, has died at the age of 49. Lernoux died of cancer Sunday at Northern Westchester Hospital Center in Mount Kisco, N.Y., according to Sister Elizabeth Roach of the Maryknoll Sisters. Lernoux had lived in South America since 1962, the past 20 years in Bogota, Colom­bia. Her 1980 book, "Cry of the People," received acclaim for its depiction of the struggle for human rights in Latin America and the church's involvement. 
INDIANA BRIEFS 
An explosion and two bomb threats closed school at Anderson lligh School on Monday. Students were sent home after an explosion caused minor damage, officials said. No one was hurt. Anderson rire Chief Dan Edwards said the explosion oc­eurrnd in a basement-level physical education activity room below the stage in the Wigwam, Anderson's 9,000-seat high sehool gym­nasium. Investigators had not determined what caused the explo­sion, Edwards said. "Every once in a while we get bomb threats," Edwards said. "We've never had an actual bomb go off before and we're not sure we had one this time." 
An Evansville billiards supply dealer was arrested Monday after allegedly selling Hoosier Lottery tickets before Fri­day's start of the game and for selling to a minor, authorities said. Don Poole of Dun's Billiard Supply was arrested about 3:30 
p.m. and charged with two .counts of promoting professional gambling, which is a Class D felony, and one eount each of unlaw­ful sale of a lottery tieket and selling a lottery ticket to a minor, )loth Class A misdemeanors. 
WEATHER 

Cooler 

Mostly cloudy today with a 40 percent chance of showers, high in the middle 50s. Partly cloudy and cool tonight, low in the lower 40s. Mostly sunny and mild Wednesday, high in the lower 
60s. 

ALMANAC 
On October 10: e In 1911: Revolutionaries under Sun Yat-sen overthrew China's Manchu dynasty. e In 1957: President Eisen­hower apologized to the finance minister of Ghana, Komia Ag­beli Gbdemah, after the official was refused service in a Dover, Del., restaurant. e In 1973: Vice President Spiro Agnew, accused of ac­cepting bribes, pleaded no con­test to one count of income tax evasion and resigned. 
e In 1985: U.S. fighter jets forced an Egyptian plane carry­ing the hijackers of the Italian eruise ship Achille Lauro to land in Italy, where the gunmen wHre taken into custody. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for October 9, 1989 

Volume in shares 

86.81 Million 
NYSE Index  
199.34  .0 .40  
S&P Composite  /\. • _  
359.80  "lJ"  I  02  

Dow Jones Industrials 
2,791.41 .05.89 

Precious Metals Gold {} $1.00 to $363.10 I oz. Silver {7 8.7¢ to $5.05 I oz. 
Source: AP 

lnform.Jt,on comp,led from Observer w~res and Observer staff reports 
Senioritis is not all that it is cracked up to be. 
As an underclassman, I often found my mind 
wandering away from my studies and dreaming 
of the days, when, as a proud Notre Dame se­
nior, I would be able to lay around like a slug. 
What a rude awakening I have undergone in 
the past few weeks. Contrary to all expectations, 
I have discovered that the most common 
symptom of senioritis is stress. A study was re­
cently conducted in which several physiological 
measurements were used to determine stress 
levels in college students as a function of their 
year in college. The highest stress levels were 
found in seniors, followed closely by freshmen, 
with sophomores and juniors bringing up the 
rear. 

To me, at least, this shows that stress tends to accompany times of monumental change. For the college senior, this change is perhaps most acute. The real world, like the Grim Reaper him­self, is rapping with bony knuckles upon his door. 
Indeed, many changes and important events 
take place in one's senior year. But, I would like 
to focus here on one particularly nerve-fraying 
phenomenon: the Interview. 

I happen to be interviewing at medical schools, but I am certain that my misadventures are not restricted to pre-meds. 
The interview experience begins as soon as you receive a happy letter from a prospective school or place of employment, "inviting" you to attend "a friendly meeting for a mutual ex­change of information." Do not be fooled by these people; they are professionals. The san­guine letter they send is merely the set-up for the bloodbath that is to follow. The manifold compliments contained within are analogous to the increased feed that is given to turkeys prior to Thanksgiving. 
Lets look at the facts. The places at which you are interviewing (schools or businesses) usually speak with five or six times as many students as they are planning to admit. Given this fact alone, it begins to seem rather unlikely that the interviewing goal of the companies or schools is really to "get to know you better as a person." 
It would be inappropriate to even call this no­tion euphemistic -it is an out and out lie. 
I purport that the sole purpose for the inter­view is to verbally and psychologically bludgeon you until your personal weaknesses are clearly spelled out by profuse sweating, stuttering or (in an interviewer's dream) an all-out nervous breakdown. Medical schools sometimes refer to this process as "ascertaining the presence of unfavorable mental qualities in the applicant." 
Consider an example. A friend of mine, let us call him Hunna to protect his identity, recently finished an interview that opened up with ques­tions about his religion. The inter­viewer/torturer then proceeded to challenge Hunna's specific moral beliefs and use his views to illuminate contradictions and weaknesses in the reasons for Hunna's beliefs. 
After about 40 minutes of this hell, the inter­viewer left the student with this comforting tip: "I noticed that you got a little nervous during the ethical questions, Hunna, because you kept playing with your shoe. It might be a good idea to avoid doing that in future interviews." 
At this point, you are probably beginning to get a little worried and asking, "But what can I do about this interviewing horror?" 
In a word, the key is PREPARATION. 
In the span of time between your "invitation" to interview and the actual interview you should realize that the school or business is not just sitting back and chilling out. No siree, your record and preliminary application materials 
OF INTEREST  
Omicron Delta Epsilon is sponsoring a  The Mock Trial scheduled for today has  
free Spaghetti Feed today at 6:30 p.m. in the  been cancelled. Bacchus will reschedule the trial  
party room of Pasquerilla West. Membership  for a later date.  
applications will be available and the event is  
open to all economics majors and professors.  

-~-_Q_bse_~~r--­
---=-l.-=1--=----A.-::::Y:_'-­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) 1s published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer •s publiShed by students of the Umversity of Notre Dame and Sa1n1 Mary"s College Subscnpt1ons may be pur­chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer 
The Observer is a member of The Assoc1aled Press All reproduct•on nghls are reserved 
'Sometimes an interviewer will play on your honesty to give him the ammo he needs to waste you.' 
Greg Lucas Assistant News Editor 
are being painstakingly scrutinized, people from 
your proximate and distant past are being con­
tacted, phones are being tapped, and mail is be­
ing monitored. 
Thus, you should be ready for the following 
scenario: "Gee Greg, your participation in the 
basket-weaving club is impressive ... Oh, what's 
this newspaper clipping mixed in with your file ... 
Well I'll bet, it's a police report in which you 
were cited for ... " 
Also beware of the subtle approach. 
Interviewer: "What do you feel is the greatest 
single problem facing medicine today?" Greg: 
"It's got to be medical incompetence." Inter­
viewer: "I think that you're absolutely correct, 
but speaking of incompetence, I noticed that in 
your second semester of organic chemistry 
you ... " 
Get the idea. In addition, interviewers love to throw curves just to see how much you can sweat up your new interviewing suit. My per­sonal favorite is this loaded question: "Boy, you certainly have an excellent record, but can you tell me about an incident of which you are most ashamed?" 
The interviewee who has done his homework will be ready for kidney punches like this and respond in the following manner: "Well, I re­member one time when I saw a school bus crash. I successfully performed CPR on eight of the children, but when I got to the ninth it was too late... he had already passed away. I am most ashamed of the fact that I did not work faster on the first eight." 
Just one more instructive example, sometimes a lazy interviewer will play on your honesty to give him the ammo he needs to waste you. Con­sider the following question: "Greg, you seem to have many favorable characteristics, what would you say are some of your unfavorable traits?" 
Once again, the crafty college student can thwart this bullet by responding in the following way: "It's hard to say this, man, but sometimes it occurs to me that I just care too much for other people and consequently I neglect my own welfare." 
The experienced student will incorporate statements like this into explanations of poor grades, i.e. "Yeah, that's what happened to me in second semester Orgo, my roommate was having some problems, and I just got excessively caught up in helping him." 
My goal in this article has not been to get you more stressed than you are already, but merely to prepare you for the psychological catfights that await you in the interview. Hemember, when you walk into that office, the interviewer is not thinking: "I wonder how many good things I can discover about this charming col­lege student," but rather, "what junk can I un­earth from this loser's past that I can use to justify tossing his application into the garbage." 
Greg Lucas is a senior biology major. The views expressed are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
Des1Qn Edtor ........................... Kathy Gliwa Design Assitant............... Cheever Griffin Typesetter ....... Bernard Brenninkmeyer .......................................................... Tim Quinn News Edtor ...................... Christine Walsh News Copy Edtor ................ John O'Brien Sports Copy Editor ........ Molly Mahoney, ......................................................Mary Garino Viewpoint Copy Editor ....... Kevin Reisch VteWpOint Layout ................. Alison Cocks Accent Editor ..................... Colleen Cronin Accent Copy Editor_ Stephanie Snyder Accent Designer..............•...... Sarah Fisko Photographer ................ Susy Hernandez NO Day Editor ........................... Erin O'Neill Ads Designer .................... Meg Callahan, ............... Kathleen O'Connor, Val Paletta ................ Kristie Rolke, Laura Rossi 


Tuesday, October 10, 1989 The Observer page 3 
Panamanian coup leader buried, opposition leader ends his fast 

Associated Press 
PANAMA CITY, Panama­The army major who led the unsuccessful coup against Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega was buried Monday and opposition leader Guillermo Endara ended a 19-day hunger strike. 
Several reports have said an enraged Noriega personally shot Maj. Moises Giroldi, 38, to death minutes after the coup attempt against the Panama­nian leader ended a week ago. 
Giroldi's relatives said he was shot once in the neck and twice in the chest. His mother, Eloisa, cried "They murdered him!" and flung herself on the coffin. 
The major led an uprising Oct. 3 and captured Noriega, who commands the Panama­nian military and controls the government, but gave up when loyalists counterattacked while 
U.S. troops looked on from a few hundred yards away. 
Officials of the Panamanian Defense Forces said eight offi­cers and two sergeants were killed. They have not explained the circumstances or responded to reports that some were slain after surrendering. 
Endara ended his fast and entered a clinic to "normalize my body's system." 
A medical bulletin said his "conscious process was excel­lent and his conversation co­herent," but he was suffering "from progressive debilita­tion." 
The opposition leader has urged Panamanians to delay paying taxes and utility bills, and to shun the government lottery and casinos, on which the government has depended for much of its revenue the past 18 months. 
The United States has applied economic sanctions against Panama since federal grand juries in Florida indicted Nor­iega in February 1988 on charges of drug trafficking and money laundering. 
Noriega claims all efforts to oust him are part of a U.S. plot to retain control of the Panama Canal after 1999, when it is to be turned over under treaties signed in 1977. 
At a news conference, Endara said he felt his hunger strike was a success. He said the op­position did not approve of the coup because it represented "Noriegaism without Noriega," not a movement toward democ­racy. 
Capt. Leon Tejada, another rebel, was buried at the same small red stone church over the weekend. "He had one bullet wound in the right temple," said Tejada's mother, Esther, who was at the church again for Giroldi's burial. 
About 100 people attended the funeral Mass for Giroldi. 

Anti-nuclear activists try to ground shuttle 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.­The countdown for this week's planned launch of space shuttle Atlantis began Monday as NASA headed for a court showdown with anti-nuclear activists seeking to stop the flight because of its plutonium­powered payload. 
If a federal judge approves, Atlantis is to blast off at 1:29 
p.m. Thursday with five astro­nauts who are to dispatch the Galileo spacecraft with its nu­clear generators on the start of a six-year journey to Jupiter. 
A band of 25 protesters demonstrated Monday at the Kennedy Space Center, played out a mock death scene, and vowed that if they are turned down by the court, they will sit 
U.S. university reopens in Beirut 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon-Hun­dreds of students returned to campus Monday when the American University of Beirut reopened after being closed for six months, its longest shut­down since the sectarian civil war began 14 years ago. 
"The whole family's back," said Radwan Mawlawi, spokesman for AUB, the alma mater of the Arab world's elite and once the most admired uni­versity in the Middle East. 
The cafeteria was packed 
with students, who hugged each other and renewed friendships. Others jammed the campus post office, checking their ac­cumulated mail. 
Mawlawi said the campus was hit several times by ar­tillery fire, causing "extensive damage ... that has now been re­paired." 
"Everything's in place. The faculty and students are here," he said. Syrian troops and Le­banese police in red berets checked student ID cards at the three gates of the tree-lined campus overlooking the Mediterranean in Moslem west Beirut. 
"Beirut's life is throbbing again now that the university has reopened," said a police­man who strolled through the campus. 
It was not known how many of the 5,000 students returned on Monday. Ghada Sheib, a Shiite Moslem architecture stu­dent, said: ''I'm very happy to be back. Let's hope it'll last." 
Many students and other res­idents of Beirut share her doubts about the durability of a r.ease-fire that began Sept. 22. 
University of Notre Dame Foreign Study Programs in 
Jerusalem 
and 

Mexico City 
Spring Semester 1990 Applications Due October 15, 1989 
For more information please contact Dr. Claudia Kselman Assistant Director, Foreign Study Programs 420 Administration Building 239-5882 
on the launch pad if necessary 
to halt the launch. 
Attorneys for the space agency and three citizens' groups are to present oral ar­guments Tuesday before U.S. District Judge Oliver Gasch in Washington. 
The launch opponents con­tend that an explosion on liftoff could spread cancer-causing plutonium over a large area of east-central Florida. 
NASA officials argue the two nuclear generators aboard the Galileo spacecraft have been thoroughly tested and that fly­ing them poses minimal health and environmental risks. Simi­lar devices have flown on 22 other U.S. spacecraft without a problem. 
"We're going to count down to a launch on Thursday unless we are told to stop," NASA test director Ron Phelps said Mon­day as the countdown got under way. He described Atlantis as in "terrific shape." 
The astronauts assigned to the mission flew here Monday from their training base in Houston for final flight prepa­rations. All five have said they are not worried about the plu­tonium in the cargo bay. 
"My family is going to be down there watching the launch, as well as other people that I love, and so I'm not con­cerned about it; I feel it's safe," said Ellen Baker, one of the crew members. 
The others are commander Donald Williams, pilot Mike McCulley, Franklin Chang-Diaz and Shannon Lucid. 
~~~ ~------~--~ 


I Join The Observer 


Evil Detnon 
~ wWM~ {t]hl~ <dl~ft <dl«D~o 
Oro andJem 


page 4 The Observer 
HUD spent $35 million on last day of fiscal '88 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-Federal HUD officials approved $35 million in loans on thn last day of fiscal 1988 in an apparnnt rush to spend the money before it was transferred to another program, according to auditors and agency documents. 
Most of the Snetion 312 mul­tifamily housing loans were ap­proved despite incomplete ap­plications or processing, ac­cording to auditors who alerted the· department's general coun­sel to the questionable loans. The auditors wem told the gov­ernment was legally bound to fund nearly all of them. 
"Where commitments were made they were honored, but (HUD) will not be making con­ditional commitments in the fu­ture," said Housing and Urban Development spokesman Jack Flynn. 
Section 312 multifamily housing loans totaling more than $40 million were approved in the final month of fiscal 1988 -out of about $100 mil­lion budgeted for the entire lis­cal yea,r -including $35.3 mil­lion on Sept. 30, 1988, the final day of the budget year, accord­ing to IIUD records. 
During that eight-hour work day, 107 loans ranging from $15,000 to $6.1 million for conversion of a Spokane, Wash., hotel were approved, the records show. 
A subsequent review of HUD records by The Associated Press found that 130 loans to­taling $40.8 million were ap­proved in September 1988, all but 23 of them, totaling $5.5 million, on the final day. 

New chair to command endowment for the arts 
Associated Press land, Ore., who takes command were outraged to discover that Helms, R-N.C., won Senate ap­tered-down version of the 
of the beleaguered arts en­$45,000 in endowment funds proval of his sweeping proposal Helms proposal. 
WASHINGTON-The Na­dowment today. had been used to support two to prohibit spending federal tional Endowment for the Arts, Nonetheless, some members exhibitions they found offen­funds on "obscene and inde­The legislation. awaiting ac­shaken by a conservative furor of the cultural community are sive. cent" art or any work that tion by President Bush, would over subsidizing "obscene art," expressing fear that the bitter One featured works by the "denigrates, debases or re­bar government financing of is getting a new chairman this controversy over the endow­late photographer Robert Map­viles" anybody on the basis of works that "may be obscene" week who promises to strike a ment's role in financing contro­plethorpe that included homo­race, creed, sex, handicap, age and lack "serious literary, balance between freewheeling versial art might undermine fu­sexual and sadomasochistic or national origin. artistic, political or scientific artistic freedom and respect ture support for bold, innova­themes and pictures of nude His amendment to the arts value" -the Supreme Court's for the public's trust. tive -and unpopular -artistic children. The other show, by endowment's $171 million ap­1973 guideline on obscenity. 
"We are not the nation's offi­ventures. artist Andres Serrano, featured propriations bill caused a furor cial pornographer, and it's im­The worst political crisis in a photograph of a crucifix in the arts community, and The NEA chairman, however, portant that the country know the NEA's 24-year history be­submerged in a container of House-Senate negotiators fi­would retain authority to make 
that," said John Frohnmayer, a gan earlier this year when con­urine. nally produced a compromise final decisions on the artistic 47 -year-old lawyer from Port-servative members of Congress In a surprise move, Jesse last week that contains a wa-merit of grant applieations. 
Cantpus Ministry and You 

(Nv.1PUS

-----------------------MINISTRY-
DRINKgOD DRINKS GOD 
"I was trying to drink God out of the bottom of a bottle. If I would drink enough, I'd have done it." 
That Is a paraphrase of a statement made by Bill Wilson -one of the founders of Alcoholics Anonymous. While looking for the most he could get out of life, he found alcohol. As a result, he couldn't keep a job or friends. His marriage was In jeopardy. He was suffering ill-health emotionally, physically and spiritually. 
As he began a process of recovery ( with the help of his co­founder -Dr. Robert Smith), he began to realize that there was a great possibility that rather than sidetracking him from his quest, alcohol was leading him to a process of accomplishing it. The more he admitted how unmanageable his life became because of alcohol, the more rigorous his quest for meaning was to become. 
As the Notre Dame community celebrates Alcohol Awareness Week (October 8-15), It might he of value to Investigate some or the spiritual aspects of alcohol consumption. Approaching the topic from the point of view of persons most seriously Impaired by alcohol does not serve well In giving warning to those with no disease predisposition, but such an approach could help identify some universal drives of Imbiber and non­Imbiber alike. 
Alcohol plays a central role In the life of the Notre Dame community. The President's Task Force of Whole Health and the Use and Abuse of Alcohol began Its report last spring with a very sober statement: NOTRE DAME HAS AN ALCOHOL PROBLEM. 
So, a thesis: A primary goal of the consumption of alcohol at Notre Dame Is to alter consciousness. A primary reason we drink alcohol Is to become or to feel other than who we are. Our desire to "become other" might be temporary or It might be permanent. But, It Is "Suggested, It Is the common denominator of most drinking at Notre Dame. 
Why would we want to be other than who we are? A number of reasons could be suggested (and some of them might even be valid!): 
We don't like who we are. 
We want to be someone else. 
We don't like how we feel. 
We wanl to feel something else. 
We want other people to think we're someone else. 
It's a way to do things we otherwise wouldn't do or even 
think of doing, but want to do. 
We have a desire ·to go somewhere beyond ourselves. 
The suggestion Is that most of the time we at Notre Dame drink alcoholic beverages In quantity we do so for one or more of the above reasons. We might not like how we feel now, or feel about ourselves now, and want that to change for now. Or we might not like how we feel ever, and want that to change forever. But rarely do we at Notre Dame drink alcohol merely because we are thirsty or because we like the taste. 
The bad news side of the task force statement on Notre Dame's alcohol problem Is that the role alcohol plays In the life of the university community Is detrimental to Its health. If any of the above reasons for drinking are true, we can conclude that many members of the Notre Dame community don't like themselves as they are or don't like what they feel much of the time or want others to see them In ways other than as they are. 
The good news might be that the Notre Dame community has a strong desire to move beyond Itself. In other words, many people at Notre Dame have a great spiritual thirst, but most of us have not found healthy ways to satisfy that thirst. 
For Bill Wilson, Bob Smith and millions of other alcoholics, alcohol came to be seen as the metaphor for their spiritual quest. They were Indeed attempting to drink the meaning of life out of the bottom of a bottle. So are we. Alcohol becomes a mode of transport for our journey Into the world of the spirit. When we use alcohol as a proxy for the spiritual journey, what feels like fulfillment under the Influence really Is a great emptiness which cannot be felt because of pleasure's own narcotic effect. 
Any spiritual journey Is a process of moving from self and Increasing conscious contact with and awareness of a power greater than ourselves: Allah, Buddah, Jehovah, Adona!, Yahweh, God. The journey leads to an understanding of existing not to satisfy senses or ego but to grow along spiritual lines beyond what Is explicitly known, felt or seen Into a relationship with God as God becomes understood. 
When we move beyond the narcotic and acknowledge great emptiness, we experience God most profoundly. When we are so rubbed up against our own will and our own pleasure and great emptiness then we know God Is present, waiting to be recognized and seen. 
Then alcohol can take Its rightful place In our lives and our real journey can begin. 

lW!W@©ITiTil~UU~ [gw®UUU® Second Week of October Alcohol Awareness Week 
Friday. October 13 
Feast of St. Edward-Patronal feast of Rev. Edouard Sorin, C.S.C., founder of the University of Notre Dame 
Saturday. October 14 Eucharist, 5:00pm at Stepan Center. Rev. Joseph Ross, C.S.C., presider. Notre Dame Women·s Choir. 
Sunday. October 15 Eucharist, 1O:OOam at Stepan Center. Rev. Thomas O'Meara, O.P. presider. Notre Dame Liturgical Choir. 
Eucharist, 11 :45am at Stepan Center. Rev. Stephen Newton, C.S.C. presider. Notre Dame Folk Choir. 

Brought to you weekly by the Office of Campus Ministry and The Observer 
Tuesday, October 10, 1989 The Observer 
Americans win Nobel Prize 
Two cancer researchers to share $469K 
Associated Press when the telephone began ring­scientist said he resented carry­ing at 4 a.m. ing their weight. 
SAN FRANCISCO-Two Uni­"We just assumed one of the versity of California cancer re­grandparents had some trou­Dr. Dominique Stehelin, a searchers won the Nobel Prize ble, so we were frightened," he French researcher who carried in medicine Monday and imme­said. out experiments overseen by diately reaped the perquisites But his alarm quickly turned Bishop and Varmus at San of success: box seats at the Na­to exultation, especially when Francisco in the 1970s, said it tional League baseball playoffs. the $469,000 award -to be was "very unfair and rotten" 
"We're off to the game -just split between the two -began that he wasn't included in the got tickets," a jubilant J. paying off in unexpected ways. prize. Michael Bishop said shortly after he and Harold Varmus When reporters swarmed to learned that they had won this his home early in the morning, "I did the work all by myself, 
year's prize. Varmus had said he only from A to Z," Stehelin told the 
The 50-member Nobel wished he could use the Nobel French news agency Agence Assembly of the Karolinska In­money to buy tickets to the France-Presse. stitute, Sweden's largest and sold-out championship game Bishop and Varmus called oldest medical university, cited 
between the San Francisco Stehelin's work "crucial" to 
Bishop and Varmus for their Giants and the Chicago Cubs at their research, but referred discovery that cancer genes in Candlestick Park. questions about the prize to the certain viruses are altered A short time later, he received Nobel committee. forms of normal animal genes. four free tickets compliments of "We didn't nominate each 
NDmSium DeBartolo 
The research helped scientists the San Francisco Examiner, other," Varmus said. understand how cancer begins, University of California and it "widened our insight into spokesman Robert Sanders "You may know you're in the 
makes Forbes 400 list 

the complicated signal systems which govern the normal growth of cells," the assembly said. 
Varmus called the research a "cornerstone in understanding the genetic mosaic of cancer." 
"The basic idea that we helped establish is that cancer has its origins in genes that normally do us some good. But after they become abnormal through mutation, they cause a role in cancer," he said. 
The two scientists are col­leagues at the University of Cal­ifornia School of Medicine in San Francisco. They originally published their prize-winning findings in 1976. 
Bishop said winning the award was "surreal," while Varmus said it was startling 
said. Bishop already had his own tickets. 
At a news conference at the University of California Medical Center, Bishop and Varmus were optimistic about the practical applications of their work, how it helps understand the nature of cancer and possi­bly some aspects of the AIDS virus. 
But they were cautious about forecasting a cancer cure in the foreseeable future. 
"This is just another step in what's a long journey," Bishop said. "It's very difficult to pre­dict when a full view of the cancer cell will be at hand." 
Although Varmus stressed that he and Bishop "stand on the shoulders of those who came before us," at least one running, but nevertheless, there are a lot of other good people in there too.... It's a shock," 
said Varmus, dressed casually in blue jeans and a red and white striped shirt, and a light beard that was apparently the result of a hasty shaving job. 
Varmus, 49, who once hoped to become an English profes­sor, said he abandoned his studies of 17th century litera­ture to attend medical school. He said he switched fields after learning that writer Gertrude Stein had enrolled at Johns Hopkins Medical School after being told that "medicine opens all doors." 
Gradually, he discovered he enjoyed being in the laboratory more than the clinic, and his research career began, he said. 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Metromedia Co. Chairman John Werner Kluge is worth an estimated $5.2 billion, but he had to back into first place on Forbes magazine's annual list of the 400 richest Americans. 
Kluge displaced Sam Walton, head of the Wal-Mart stores discount chain, who divided his $9 billion fortune among him­self and his four children and ended a four-year reign as Forbes's wealthiest person. 
Notre Dame alumnus Edward DeBartolo, 80, of Boardman, Ohio is number 42 on the Forbes list. DeBartolo's esti­mated net worth: $1.4 billion, mostly in shopping centers. 
Among other notables on the 
That total wealth would come just short of bailing out the nation's failed savings and loans over the next 30 years, the cost of which was estimated by Congress at $285 billion. 
The list appears in the Oct. 23 edition of Forbes and is based on estimated holdings as of Sept. 8. 
The prototypical member of Forbes' ultra-rich was a 63­year-old male with 3.1 children working on his 1.4th marriage with a net worth of $672 mil­lion last year, more than the gross national product of Le­sotho, Forbes said. 
The list contains 346 men and 54 women; 159 inherited their wealth; no one from Maine, North Dakota or Alaska quali­


T 
gsz: lJOdSJ;xlns ,SW:llSAS 1111lQ lp!U:rz l!U!pnJ:>U! :lAOQil :llp jO !IV : .JaA\SUV 
he Zenith SupersPort 286 batltry-powered porlllble. = 1 1 1 Q Q 
fied; Yale had 22 of the richest, Donald Trump compounded his list released Monday, developer 
Harvard 17 and the University already considerable fortune of Pennsylvania 12; the 45 with
Which college essential 
and financiers Michael Milken master's degrees in business and Carl Icahn joined the bil­had an average net worth of lionaires club. $895 million, while the 10 high­Overall, Forbes' richest are school dropouts had an average
in this picture fits in 
worth an estimated total of of $854 million. about $269 billion, up nearly $50 billion from the previous About 20 percent, or 82, of year, a 22 percent increase that those listed live in or near New
your backpack? 
substantially outpaced last York City, with Los Angeles year's 4.4 percent inflation second with 32 and San Fran­rate. cisco third at 19. 
9\[ptre 'Dame Counic[ # 14 7 7 1(niglits of Co{umbus 
What: Meeting 
When: Tonight 
Time: 7 pm 
Where: Knights of 
Columbus Hall 
We're back and ready to go!! 
:FM more information a6out tfie 'l(nigft.ts ofCo{umhus ca££ 239· 7018 Mtfrop ~y tfie 'l(nigft.ts of Co{um6us J-fa[£, Cocatetf ne;>;:t to tfie 'Boo{(JtMe 
The sPan that goes everywhere you and your backpack  For more information on Zenith's full line of  !  
go.  And With all the power of a desktop.  computers. from laptops to desktops contact:  
As PC MAGAZINE. Oct "88 states:  ""The SupersPort 286  

IS an mcredible machine." Or as in INfOWORLO. Oct '88 
Notre Dame Computer Store says: "It embodies a combination of speed, weight, size, and 
Office of University Computing 
battery life that we've seen in no other laptop computer." 
Math/Computer Building 239-7477
See for yourself where the SupersPort 286 can take you. Several portable models are available ranging in speed, hard drive capacity and price. Students, Faculty and Staff receive large discounLS. Students, ask about our new loan program! 

John Steve 22 21 !!
~*''HI data
systems 
ll©W® WriD~

The world's #1 selling PC compatibles. Get the best for less. 
[Ml@[ffii) ~ [Q)[IDcQ] 



Tuesday, October 10, 1989

page 6 The Observer 
Soviet scientists vouch for UFO landing in park 

Associated Press 
MOSCOW-It was a close en­counter of the Communist kind. 
Towering. tiny-headed hu­manoids from outer space landed their UFO in the Russian city of Voronezh and emerged for a promenade around the park, spreading fear among residents. 
At least that's what the offi­cial Tass news agency said Monday. 
Tass. contributing to a string of weird tales that have crept into the formerly stuffy state­controlled media in recent months, said in a straight­faced report that Soviet scien­
tists  vouched  for  the  UFO's  
landing.  
"Scientists have  confirmed  

that an unidentified flying ob­ject recently landed in a park in the Russian city of Voronezh," Tass said. "They have also identified the landing site and found traces of aliens who 
Nuclear plant operator did not heed warning 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON-The opera­tor of the Rocky Flats nuclear arms plant near Denver knew as narly as 1984 that danger­ous amounts of radioactive plutonium may have accumu­lated in building air ducts but failed to act on the information, a former employee said Monday. 
James Stone, a utility design engineer at the site from 1980 to 1986, said he raised the probability of such plutonium deposits -and the safety haz­ard they would pose -with Hockwell International Corp., which operates the plant under an Energy Department con­tract. 
"They said we cannot afford to clean it," Stone said in a telephone interview. 
Stone's suspicion of a buildup of plutonium residue in the ven­tilation system at Hocky Flats was borne out by a team of in­dependent investigators who disclosed in a report to the En­ergy Dnpartment last week that such plutonium deposits raised "a real possibility" of an acci­dental nuclear chain reaction at Rocky Flats. 
An accidental nuclear reac­tion could release lethal amounts of radiation to plant worknrs. 
The independent investiga­tors, dispatched to the weapons plant in July by Energy Secre­tary James Watkins, reported finding 11 pounds of weapon­grade plutonium in a pipe that serves as an exhaust ventilation duct at one of the plant's main buildings. 
The amount of plutonium residue was more than enough to cause an uncontrolled nu­clear reaction under certain circumstances but was not an immediate danger to the public or the workers because it was not escaping from the ducts. the investigators said. 
Rockwell had insisted prior to the investigation that no plu­tonium was accumulating in air ducts, the investigators said. 
The investigation was con­ducted by a team of nuclear ex­
perts from Scientech Inc., an 
Idaho Falls, Idaho, engineering 
and management company. The 
probe raised many questions 
about the safety of Hockwell's 
operations and suggested that 
plant workers had not voiced 
all safety concerns out of fear 
of retaliation. 

Larry Ybarrondo, president 
of Scientech, said in a telephone 
interview that the investigators 
verified that Stone had warned 
Rockwell about the plutonium 
problem. 

Rockwell last month an­
nounced it was withdrawing 
from Rocky Flats because of a 
disagreement with the Energy 
Department over liability for 
possible criminal acts in con­
nection with waste disposal and 
other plant operations. An 
Idaho company, EG&G Inc., last 
Friday signed a contract to 
take over Rocky Flats on Jan. 
1, 1990. 

Stone said he realized the probability of plutonium de­posits in the ventilation system in 1984 while he was helping to plan a renovation of Building 881, a former site of uranium and plutonium processing that now is used as a laboratory and computer center. 
Stone said Rockwell did not act on his advice that the hun­dreds of feet of stainless steel ducts be sandblasted or cleaned in some other way to remove any plutonium buildup. 
"It wasn't part of the original scope of their work so they weren't going to do it," he said, even though Rockwell possessed the technical capability to test for the presence of plutonium residue in the ventilation system. 
Roger Mattson, a vice presi­dent of Scientech and leader of the Rocky Flats investigation, said in a telephone interview that his group found 11 pounds of plutonium in the ventilation system of Building 771, where plutonium is processed in 
··gloveboxes." Rockwell shut down several of the gloveboxes after the discovery in August and began taking steps to cor­rect the problem, he said. 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Production Manager 
A resume and a personal statement should be submitted to Alison Cocks by Thursday, October 12. Any questions, call Alison at 239­7471 or 283-4059. 
made a short promenade about the supermarket tabloids of the the park." West. Recent examples have in­
A Tass duty officer, contacted cluded other accounts of UFOs, Monday evening by telephone, sightings of abominable snow­refused to identify the reporter man-type creatures, and a tale 
who sent the dispatch from about a young mystic who goes Voronezh, but stood by the into a trance and flies about story. "It is not April Fool's to­the cosmos. A rash of mystics day," he said. and ESP-artists also have in­
vaded state TV. 
The Soviet media, unleashed by the Kremlin's policy of glas­In Buffalo, N.Y., Paul Kurtz, nost -greater openness -feel chairman of the Committee for free now to hype incredible sto­the Scientific Investigation of ries that seem more at home in Claims of the Paranormal, 
SECURITY BEAT 
WEDNESDAY, OCT. 4 

9:10 a.m. Notre Dame Police were called to the scene of a one vehicle accident at the East gate. No injuries were reported and dam­ages were minor. 
9:47a.m. An off-campus student reported that her car had been struck by an unknown vehicle while the student was parked in the C-1 lot. 
12:07 p.m. Notre Dame Security responded to a report of 3 suspi­cious males in the Lewis Hall lobby. The men were escorted off campus and given trespass warnings. 
1:10 p.m. Notre Dame Security received a report of a theft from an off-campus student. The student had placed his wallet in a secured locker at 12:35 p.m. When he re­turned at 1 :10 p.m., his wallet and contents were missing. 
1:15 p.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of his wallet and contents from a secured locker in the men's locker room of the JACC. The theft occurred sometime be­tween 12:05 and 1 :15 p.m. 
1:50 p.m. A number of students reported that items had been stolen from the men's locker room of the Rockne Memorial. 
2:45 p.m. A resident of University Village reported the theft of his wal­let and contents from a secured locker in the men's locker room. The theft occurred sometime be­tween 12:50 and 2:10p.m. 
7:10p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported the theft of his wallet and contents from outside a raquetball court in the JACC. The theft oc­curred between 4 and 5 p.m. 
9:55 p.m. Notre Dame Police cited a Granger woman for Exceed­ing the Posted Speed Limit. The defendant had been travelling 45 mph in a 25 mph zone on Juniper Road. 
10 p.m. A Walsh Hall resident re­ported the theft of her book bag and contents from the lobby of the North Dining Hall. Her loss is esti­mated at $133.50. 
THURSDAY, OCT. 5 
7:45 a.m. A Notre Dame em­ployee reported the theft of a clock from a class room in Cushing Hall. The loss to the university is $50.00. 
1 p.m. A Keenan Hall resident re­ported the theft of his coat from the employees coat rack in the North Dining Hall . The theft occurred sometime between 1 0/2 and 1 0/3, and the victim's loss is estimated at $40.00. 
3:51 p.m. Notre Dame Security responded to the report of 4 men selling perfume in Knott Hall. The men were advised to obtain a per­mit from the University, were given verbal trespass warnings, and were escorted off campus. 
5:15 p.m. Notre Dame Police were called to the scene of a one car accident on Angela Blvd. No in­juries were reported and damages were minimal. 
FRIDAY, OCT. 6 
3:30 p.m. An off-campus student reported that his car had been van­dalized while it was parked in the D­1 lot sometime between 1 and 3:15 p.m. on 9/15. 
commented: "We're extremely skeptical of this claim. It's not the first one (in the Soviet me­dia). There's many. There seems to be a rash of reports. largely uncorroborated." 
According to Monday's Tass report, a large shining ball or disk was seen hovering over the park by Voronezh residents. They saw the UFO land and up to three creatures similar to humans emerge, accompanied by a small robot. Tass said. 
4:50 p.m. A Notre Dame student reported that her car had been struck by an unknown vehicle sometime between 9/30 and 10/6. 
5:30 p.m. A faculty member re­ported the theft of his wallet and contents from an unlocked locker in the men's locker room of the Rockne Memorial between 3:15 and 4:00p.m. 
SATURDAY, OCT. 7 6:20p.m. A South Bend man was stopped on Juniper Road and cited by Notre Dame Police for Operating on Expired License Plates. 
9:01 p.m. Notre Dame Police re­sponded to the report of a vehicle on fire in the B-1 lot. The officer ex­tinguished the blaze and trans­ported the owner of the vehicle to his apartment. 
SUNDAY, OCT. 8 
12:43 a.m. Notre Dame Police were called to the scene of a fight in the bookstore parking lot. The two students involved were sepa­rated and later released. 
4:42 p.m. A resident of Sorin Hall reported the theft of his NVA is­sued football helmet from the hall­way outside his room sometime be­tween 1 0/6 and 10/8. The replace­ment value is $90.00. 
5:44 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident reported the thelt ol his secured bicycle from the front of Flanner Hall sometime between 10/7 and 1 0/8. His loss is estimated to be $350.00. 
6:00 p.m. An off-campus student reported the thelt of his tote bag and contents from outside a raque­tball court at the JACC. 
46 
71 ~ 
~DAW~~ 


Tuesday, October 10 at 8:00 pm in the Notre Dame Room of the LaFortune Student Center Manifestation of Themes of Confuciunism & Literature in Chinese Culture 
Professor Gao Xiang will speak on Confuciunism. Professor Xiang is a Distinguished Faculty Fellow of the Kellogg Institute, and secretary general of the Chinese Center for Third World Studies of China. Gu Wenjuian, senior editor of the Chinese Central Television and member of the Chinese Writers' Union, will speak on Chinese Literature. 

ADWORKS 

page 7 

Hungary Communists elect centrist leader of old party 
Associated Press reformers only, including some former Politburo members such 
BUDAPEST, Hungary-The as Foreign Minister Gyula ruling Hungarian communist Horn. party that earlier changed its Missing were Politburo mem­name and embraced democratic bers considered less enthusias­aspirations elected the centrist tic about reform, including leader of the old party on Mon­party spokesman Janos day to head a slate of reform­Barabas. ers in the new one. Politburo member Karoly 
Rezsoe Nyers, president of Grosz, the most conservative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, the old party's collective lead­told reporters Soviet President ership, also was not elected to Mikhail Gorbachev was the first the Steering Committee, but to congratulate him. said beforehand he would not 
"Gorbachev conducts very seek a senior post. fast diplomacy," a tired but The clearly reformist makeup elated Nyers said. "They gave of the executive body was ex­me his telegram within two pected to gratify some liberals hours of my election." unhappy with the choice of Ny­
He was named president in ers, former chairman of the closed session after key re­communist party. formists reluctantly shelved some of their reservations Delegate Gyoergy Kerekes about him to avoid a possible said Nyers won the support of split. 86 percent of those present, 
Spokesman Emil Kimmel told and Barabas said from 70 to state TV the congress also 80 percent voted for the Steer­elected a 25-member National ing Committee list. Steering Committee, the new The congress opened Friday party's executive leadership and ended early Tuesday with and successor of the commu­the more than 1,200 delegates nist party Politburo. approving the following resolu­
Delegates said reformists tions -all watered-down ver­Imre Pozsgay and Premier Mik­sions of what radical reformers los Nemeth, members of the old wanted: party's collective leadership, were among the 25. They were -Start of discussions in Par­not picked as deputies to Nyers, liament about the fate of party­however, in a new indication of controlled assets accrued ille­resistance to too much radical gally during its predecessor's reformist influence. 41 years in power. 
The new party's statutes pro­-Informal support of the vide for two vice presidents, but largely volunteer Workers' Mili­Nyers told reporters, "The tia. now facing dissolution, if it congress could not agree on decides to give up its paramili­choices for these positions." tary character and become an 
A copy of the Steering Com­emergency aid organization mittee list given to The Associ­during fires, floods and other ated Press contained names of catastrophes. 

Case closes for Indiana bomber 
Associated Press including conspiracy, illegal Powell, who delivered the gov­
possession of dynamite, 14 ernment's rebuttal. 
NEW ALBANY, Ind.-A fed­counts of making bombs and eral court jury began delibera­13 counts of attempting to de­Powell said Hubbard was mo­tions Monday in the govern­stroy bridges and buildings tivated by his lifelong rivalry
ment's case against John Hub­used in interstate commerce. and hatred for state Rep.bard, who is accused of making Frank Newkirk, a Democrat and planting 13 bombs under "He wanted the thrill of being from Salem. bridges and behind buildings in able to see the fear and the "He resented him for a life­Salem. panic on people's faces about time of accomplishments that 
The jury of seven women and the bombs and the chaos he he thought Frank Newkirk Jr. five men went out about 4:50 had created in Salem," said had that Mr. Hubbard didn't," 
p.m. EDT following instructions Powell said. from U.S. District Judge Sarah Barker. who has presided Jerry Conrad, 42, one of But Watts contended it was during the six-day trial. Hubbard's co-workers at a absurd to suggest Hubbard 
Hubbard's attorney, Paul Salem factory, was convicted would plant one of the bombs Watts of Spencer, surprised on all 29 counts following a within 150 feet of his own spectators in the courtroom by trial last month. house and then return home to resting his case Monday after­In closing arguments Mon­his wife and children to "wait noon without calling any wit­day, Assistant U.S. Attorney to be blown off the face of the nesses. Robert Powell described Hub­earth because he didn't get a 
Hubbard, 31, of Salem, was bard as a "guerrilla fighter in part in a school play in high charged with 29 federal counts his own mind." school." 

GUYS WHO WANT TO MEET HOT BABES!!!! 
Come be a part of the 
ITJEIT§IHI IE~JEIE§§ 
1uggage service 
''When it absolutely, positively has to be at the main circle." 
Interested? Contact Student Government 239-7668 

The Observer Tuesday, October 10, 1989
Florida Rep. who is a doctor gets heat for abortion ruling 
AP Photo 
Associated Press 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla.-A first-term state representative and physician is in the center of Florida's abortion storm this week because he's the only leg­islator who performs abor­tions. making him a lightning rod for protests. 
Ben Graber even gets hate mail. 
"They need something to marshal their forces around," he said of abortion opponents. 
The obstetrician-gynecologist's Pompano Beach women's clinic drew a raucous demonstration Saturday, three days before the state Legislature was to begin a special session on abortion called by Gov. Bob Martinez. 
"They were frustrated by the (Florida) Supreme Court deci­sion. They decided to make me the target, an ideal situation with the legislative session coming up," Graber said Mon­day. 
The state Supreme Court last week cited the state privacy law to strike down a 1988 statute requ1rmg minors to get parental consent for abortion, uphold a woman's unrestricted right to abortion in the first trimester, and emphasize indi­vidual privacy rights in abor­tion decision-making. 
The governor acted within weeks of the U.S. Supreme Court's July 3 ruling upholding Missouri state restrictions on abortions, making Florida the first state since then to call a 

Expiatory sacrifice 
A rabbi (right) rotates a live chicken around the heads of a family on Saturday in a Tel Aviv street. Many religious Jews believe that the chicken, which is later killed, will pick up all the sins of the people over whose heads it has been circled. The expiatory sacrifice is generally carried out the night before the start of Yom Kippur, the holiest day in the Jewish calender. 
IRA claims responsibility for shooting 
Associated Press 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland­An attacker pulled up in a car and fatally shot a 28-year-old man in another vehicle Monday, police reported. The outlawed IRA claimed responsibility. 
Police said Thomas Gibson 
was shot several times as he 
sat in his car in the village of 
Kilrea. They said the gunman 
opened fire at point-blank 
range from a car that pulled up 
alongside Gibson's. 
The Irish Republican Army 
claimed responsibility in a 
statement delivered to news or­
ganizations. It said Gibson 
worked for the Ulster Volun­
teer f"orce, an outlawed Protes­
tant paramilitary group that 
frequently is an liM target. 
Downtown Hadio, a Belfast station, said the Protestant group denied Gibson was a member. Police said he was not connected with security forces. 
Foreign 
continued from page 1 
ing out the links between classi­cal and oriental languages. 
With regard to his expecta­tions for the three new depart­ments, Loux replied: "They (the departments) will flourish in a way they haven't before." 
Senate 
continued from page 1 

she plans to go through Hall Presidents Council to get volUn­teers. Mahony also suggested the possibility of having stu­dents pay off their community service hours through working for service. 
The Student Union Board (SUB) presented a resolution for a club Coordination Council at the senate meeting. 
The council's main duties would be to represent the stu­dent clubs to student govern­ment, including help with the budget/funding process, to act as a resource for the clubs in planning events, and to encour­
.......,
:········.~~ns:
•
• 

• 
• 

age co-sponsorships and pro­jects between clubs. 
A chairperson for each club classification would report to the club coordinator, who would report to the SUB direc­tor of relations, the student body treasurer and a student government representative. 
The proposal was tabled until next week. 
Approved as Judicial Review Board nominees at the meeting were students Melissa Smith, John Hamill, Karin Grace, and Arthur Kanerviko. 
The Judicial Review. Board consists of one faculty member, one administrator and one stu­dent per appeal who hear ap­peals on cases of suspension. 
session devoted to abortion. 
At Saturday's demonstration, Graber said several of his pa­tients. none there for abor­tions, were jostled by a 200­strong crowd and others were scared away. Graber says he performs two or three abor­tions a week and only as part of his practice. 
The Rev. Pat Mahoney, a South Florida coordinator for Operation Hescue, an anti­abortion group that demon­strates at clinics, was arrested 
British deny involvement with Hong Kong activists 
Associated Press 
LONDON-The Foreign Of­fice on Monday rejected a Chi­nese official's aceusation that Britain is conniving with ac­tivists in Hong Kong to over­throw China's government. 
The Chinese army's attacks on pro-democracy students in June, which left hundreds dead, "are the cause of the loss of confidence in Hong Kong," said a Foreign Office spokesman. 
The British colony is sched­uled to revert to Chinese rule in 1997. 
"As for the view that we have connived at acts of sabotage in an attempt to overthrow the Chinese government, that is quite wrong," said the spokesman, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity. 
"The people of Hong Kong attach great importance to democratic freedoms, under their own legal system," he said. "Equally it is important that such freedoms are used with a sense of responsibility. 
"There is no evidence that Hong Kong is used as a base 
#1 NOTRE DAME "FIGHTING IRISH" vs. #2 MIAMI "HURRICANES" 


THANKSGMNG FOOTBALL WEEKEND NOVEMBER 22·26, 1989 
COMPLETE PACKAGE INCWDES 
• 
ROUNDTRIP TRANSPORTATION TO AIRPORT 

• 
ROUNDTRIP JET FLIGHT TO MIAMI 

• 
4 NIGHTS AT THE LUXURIOUS SHAWNEE RESORT DIRECTLY ON BEAUTIFUL MIAMI BEACH 

• 
TRANSFERS TO THE "ORANGE BOWL" 

• 
NOTRE DAME VS. MIAMI GAME TICKET 

• 
GREAT AMERICAN'S TOUR STAFF ON-LOCATION 

• 
All TAXES AND GRATUITIES INCLUDED 


TRIP PRICE: $435.00, quad occupancy. $150.00 Deposit to reserve your spot Visa and Mastercard accepted 
Contact the Student Activities Office: Notre Dame 239-7308 315 LaFortune Center Saint Mary's 284-4561 103 Haggar Center 
and charged with assault on a police officer. obstructing jus­tice without violenee and tres­passing. 
Graber called Operation Hes­cue "a terrorist organization" and said he will seek a restrain­ing order against thn group and damages. 
llis officn has been picketed before. But the latest protest was perhaps the most strident, he said. 
for activities against tlw Chi­nese government. Tlw demo­cratic freedoms of I long Kong must be pr1~served." 
Ke Zaishuo. who hnads China's dPingation to a Chinesn­British liaison committen on Hong Kong. on Sunday aceused Britain of adopting an "attitude of connivance" to­ward alleged efforts in I long Kong to overthrow the Com­munist government. lin did not elaborate on the charge. 
The official Xinhua News Agency also quoted Ke as say­ing Britain had "unshirkable responsibility" for widespread fears in Hong Kong about tlw Chinese takeover that have triggered mass efforts to emi­grate. 
Hundreds of thousands of Hong Kong residents have protested the army attack in Beijing, and several groups have been formed to work for democratic change in China. China has called the groups subversive but Hong Kong's British-appointed governor has refused to ban them. 


Viewpoint 
Tuesday, October 10, 1989

page 10 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Reg1s Coccia 

Exec. News Editor .. Matthew Gallagher Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Sports Editor Theresa Kelly 
Accent Editor ...John Blasi Photo Editor .Enc Bailey Saint Mary's Editor .. Chnst<ne Gill 
Business Manager R1ch Iannelli 
Advertising Manager . . .....Molly Killen Ad Design Manager ... Shannon Roach Production Manager . .... Alison Cocks 
Systems Mgr.  . .Bernard Brenninkmeyer  
OTS Director  Angela Bellanca  
Controller  Anne L1ndner  


The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the pol­ICies of the adm1n1strat10n of 81ther 1nstitut1on The news IS reported as accurately and ob­JeCtively as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opimon of the ma1onty of the follow1ng Ed1tor-1n-Ch,ef. Managmg Editor. Execut1ve News Ed1tor. V1ewpo1nt Ed1tor. Sports Ed1tor. Accent Ed1tor. Photo Ed1tor. Sa1nt Mary's Ed1tor Commentanes. letters. and the Jns1de Column present the v1ews of th81r authors Column space 1s available to all members of the community and the free express1on of vary1ng opimons on campus, through letters. IS encouraged 
By Sergei Basarab 
Due to peristroika and glasnost, which were warmly welcomed into the U.S. political vocabulary, most Americans no longer identify all Soviet people 
0 0 0

with being "Hussians." Baltic 0 0 Popular Fronts (radical move­ments in support of reconstruc­tion) show the whole world how creative the peaceful, parlia­
mentary revolution is. Moldavia resembles something horrible oppression meets a re­Latvians, Lithuanians and of a seething pot, Ukrainians sistance. Consciousness fades have been thinking quietly to away but doesn't die. This is a
Estonians proved that criticism 
by words is a mightier weapon themselves. That's why, I guess, stable law of social life. than criticism by arms. Ethnic the top Party Boss, who has the Insulted and humiliated, the Azerbaijanians and Armenians dubious distinction of having Ukraine is coming out of hiber­
nation. Popular Fronts have al­
chose the latter, but they been the close friend of late couldn't put out the flames on Leonid Brezhnev, was ready risen in different regions. 
Their demands include granting 
national conflict. Instead, they "unanimously" elected to the fanned these flames. It is no new Soviet Parliament. As a Ukraine greater economic in­surprise that people in both re­matter of fact, our computers dependence, cancellation of the 
construction of more nuclear
publics are very anxious. "How began to perspire as they calcu­to live?" "What is to be done?" lated this "unanimous" victory power plants (no more 
Chernobyls) and recognition of
Such questions are common with 50.00...1% of the votes there, but unfortunately, there cast This is why the submissive Ukrainian as the official state are still no answers. Citizens of press has kept silent language. Sometimes these 
people resemble unhelpful ba­also failed to find
Georgia them. On the square of Georgia's capital, Tbilisi, Georgians were met by units of the Soviet Army. The blood has been shnd. Not long ago a spe­cial commission of the Georgian S.S.H. Supreme Soviet (Parliament) stated that the de­cision to use armed forces was an unlawful act Such is the sit­uation in yesterday's "territories" which today want to be dignified states (still within the Soviet Union). 
And how about Ukraine? This mighty republic of fifty million people is a rich land larger than the states of California and Florida combined. The Ukrainian S.S.H. holds a sepa­rate membership in the United Nations, UNESCO and other in­ternational organizations, where its voice , I have heard, is highly respected. But for a long time, there has been silence at home. While neighboring 
DOONESBURY 
ftTCR, I'M TALK-8A5/CAUY, IN6, tJV~, 7V /HI?.. Bli3H /J.e.A./N5PfCTDR 70WU570 
ABE 50/VW&U.' NAIL.. "A 
{}R/J6 (3{)'1.'' 
I 

To my great regret, the space bies in the cradle, but at otherafforded by a newspaper article times they become Hercules in­does not allow me to tell much carnate. For example, voters inabout the events which pre­Kiev, the capital of the Ukraine,ceded the "conservation" of the rejected unpopular officials inUkraine. A historic essay could 
occupy bulky volumes, but there the last election. In Chernovtsy, is one greater evil to be men­a large city in the western tioned now: the destruction of Ukraine, the influential "old the Ukrainian nation and cul­guard", Leonid Kravchuk suf­ture. This policy of destruction, fered a great defeat at the carried out by the government polls. Not long ago, the Society of tsarist Russia, was sur­of Ukrainian Language, named passed by Stalin and his com­after Taras Shevchenko, the fa­rades-in-arms. Hundreds of ther of our national literature, 
thousands of people died during was established. an artificial famine and by But these successes are but execution following unjust tri­drops of water in an ocean of als. What had once been rich problems. The main difficulty is grain fields became an on­a lack of concrete and realistic 
promised land. Bloody butchers programs which can take in to even tried to do away with lan­account all of the complicated guage, and they were nearly processes now happening in the successful. According to the republic. Some people try to last census, five million confine the activities of the Ukrainians considered Russian Popular Front to national is­to be their mother tongue. sues, neglecting the fact that 
But luckily, even the most several Ukrainian regions 
ANI?/A/HAT 7H& PR&SIP&NTt<J4JJT5, H& 6!3TS, PF3TER! 7HI5 f3l.ITe '3QUAD 1'3 MOVING A B4TTEI<JN6 ~INTO PLAC/3 OIJ713/D& A N(JJ{)RIOU'3N&IAJ 
YORKOJY 

tu&'R/3 60/NG IN NOW, P&T~R/ tuf'f?£: ON 7H& MOV~.' ~XP/30T 157HAT 70 '3t£ ''ROC/<"! a<Pt:cr 70513e­9YI1CON& HUMAN tj4Ra46e{ CXPtcrfflD AT me f}()()R, 6!3T (j(jJ.Y.' fi?./6HT H£3Rt, U'lt'! MAMA~ 
I 
(Crimea, Donetsk, the area where miners recently went on strike, Voroshilovgrad) are completely Russian-speaking where people are more inter­ested in economic and social reform. On the other hand, there 'are certain elements in our society which pay no atten­tion to the national issues, hurting the radical majority in traditional Ukrainian-speaking areas. How can we bridge the two extremes? I believe that there is but one way: the delib­erate enlightenment of people with different points of view, making them aware of the im­portance of both national and economic matters. This is a challenge for all Ukrainian in­tellectuals who are proud daughters and sons of their land. Chances are that by working together, they can unite a divided nation. 
Chances are... When will they become reality? Nobody can answer for sure. Meanwhile, as I've stressed above, there are some signs of awakening, but we are far from being wide awake. We are still quiet Ukrainians, though our backs are unbending, and our voices are sounding louder. I am re­minded of the famous words of Lincoln: "You can fool all the people some of the time, and some of the people all the time, but you can't fool all the people all or the time." 
There was a time in the Ukraine when even the recipe for a cake had to be approved by officials in Moscow. Then people realized that this was absurd, and they beearne furi­ous. I guess the more days that pass, the wiser (or more sober) we will become. Finally, we will rush to the point which far­sighted people have already seen. I mean a prosperous Ukraine within the Union of sovereign republics. 
Sergei Basarab is a graduate student at the Institute for International Peace Studies. 

LETTERS 
Grace debate covers role of US in aiding perestroika and glasnost 
Dear Editor: lively and relevant issues of the 
The Grace Hall Debate Series, day. There will be a champi­now in its fourth year, will be­onship debate at the end of the gin on Tuesday, October 10. "season" between the two best The debates will run through floors. the end of November and will cover a wide range of topics, Tonight's debate will be the first of which is "The judged by Professor Thomas United States should immedi­Swartz of the Economics ately grant laws and other eco­Department. It will be held at nomic incentives to the 9:00pm in the Grace Hall "Pit." 
U.S.S.R. in an effort to promote All are welcome, so please come perestroika and glasnost" and enjoy the intellectual match-up! 
Each debate will pit three Craig Gunderson representatives from each par­Commissioner, Grace Hall ticipating floor in Grace Intellectual Life Committee against each other to discuss Oct. 8, 1989 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'The first and worst of all frauds is to cheat oneself.' 
Gamaliel Bailey 

Accent
Tuesday, October 10, 1989 page 11 
MARCH ON THE CAPITOL 
NO students and national organizations band together for the homeless 
Michelle Berninger accent writer 

"Power concedes nothing without a de­mand. It never has, and it never wilL" These words inspired the Housing NOW! March on Washington, D.C. last Satur­day. 
Twenty-three Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students joined 200,000 to 300,000 other protesters from across the country to march from the Washington 
The march was a culmination of a week of protests to demand decent, affordable shelter as a hu­man right in the United States. 
Monument to the CapitoL Along with the students, over 60 people from the com­munity travelled in buses to Washington, 
D.C. on Friday afternoon and marched the next morning. 
The march was a culmination of a week of protests to demand decent, af­fordable shelter as a human right in the United States. From a stage behind the Capitol, Rev. Jesse Jackson, actress Su­san Dey and others spoke out against homelessness, and musicians such as Tracy Chapman, and the Jefferson Star­ship entertained the crowds. Over 200 other celebrities were present to help draw attention to the housing problem which has left no corner of America un­touched. 
According to Kathleen Hoyer, coordina­tor of Service/Social Actions Groups for the Center for Social Concerns, participa­tion in the march was a good way for students to work with the local commu­nity on an important issue, and under­stand how social changes take place in a democratic society. 
Several of the participating students are involved in CILA, or work at the 
ND students rallied with thousands of 
other 

You know what to do 
I finally broke down and bought an answering machine. I really had no choice in that AT&T was having a 2 for 1 sale and had I not acted now I would not have been able to save 50%. Although, had I bought nothing I would have saved 100%, but I guess they'd rather not have us look at it that way. 
I think that they should sim­ply be honest about it, and come right out in the ad and say that if you buy now you'll only lose 50% as compared to the 100% you usually lose when you buy something. I can just see the ads now, "Honest Abe's Midnight Madness Sale, buy NOW and LOSE UP TO 75%!!!" 
The problem I'm having, though, is that I can't think of a good message for the machine. Sure, it came with a pre­recorded message, but the guy who recorded it sounds like the kind of person who would starch his shorts, just for kicks. This is not exactly the kind of image I'm trying to convey. And let's not forget, image is EVERYTHING. I mean, this is your machine-it's your bud­dy. If you don't have a ma­chine, you're nobody. Your rna-
DAN FONTANA 
... The Real World 
chine is your gateway to the Age of Communication, and the message you leave on it is be­coming more important then the color of your tie. You know you're a success when you not only have a machine, but you've created THE message. 
This is why I'm so worried: you can tell a lot about a person from the outgoing message they leave. For example, you can tell that someone who leaves the message, ''I'm sorry, but I'm unable to come to the phone now (etc.)," is a damn poor liar. 
You know who you are. EVE­RYONE knows that you could come to the phone, but that you're screening your calls to avoid talking to that person who cannot get it through his or her thick skull that you are more attracted, sexually, to bullfrogs then to them, and that they should stop calling. 
Not that honesty, in this situ­ation, is all that good an idea ei­ther. Once I heard a message that said, ''I'm screening my calls so say something and if I recognize your voice and like you I'll pick up." This is the kind of person who would get a call from his mother, not pick up, and later wonder why she stopped sending money. I think, by the way, that this would be a good time to men­tion that those Outgoing Mes­sage Tapes fall into the same category as clip-on power ties. Need I elaborate? I think not. 
Another thing to look out for is a message that's too long. Nobody wants to call you and sit there for 30 seconds listen­ing to you drone on about who knows what. What they want is to get to the part where they hear the beep and use the "S" and "F" words at you for leav­ing that damn thing on in the first place. 
So your goal should be to have a short message that cre­ates a kind of "Beemer" image. Namely, that you have enough money to lose $40,000 on a car that performs no better then one at half the loss. The reason you need this image is that the person calling may very well be looking to go out with you. Ob­viously, this new trend of burp­ing into the machine is unac­homeless shelter in South Bend, but many others were motivated solely by the idea of such a huge march. 
"This national event was an effective way of initiating action for housing the homeless on a local level," said Mary Sue Twohy, one of the student organizers of the trip. "The experience of the march was very unifying." 
One of the most moving speeches of the day was an address made by a 9-year-old homeless child to President Bush, who was at Camp David at the time. 
The march was attended by people of all ages and from many groups, but also by many homeless from other cities. This fact, according to Notre Dame participant Dave Palumbro, was one of the most posi­tive aspects of the march. "It was neat to think that these homeless people were marching for a problem that they shared with the homeless of Washington." 
Another student, Jeanne Ballot, called the march "an incredible experience." The emotion felt by such a national call to action was enhanced by the large number of different people participating for the same cause. "There were a lot of groups represented with many individual caus­es," she said, "but they were all united for one reason." 
The march occurred at a time when most experts now estimate the number of homeless Americans at 3 million, with families representing the fastest growing sector of the homeless population. Today, the nation's capital is experiencing the largest increase in homeless families. 
The Housing NOW! brochure claims that at the start of Ronald Reagan's first term, the U.S. spent $7 on defense for every $1 spent on housing. Today, the ra­tio is $44 to $1. Furthermore, since 1980, Budget Authority for all federal housing assistance programs has been cut by more than 75 percent-from $32 to $7.5 billion a year. 
These are the types of statistics that the Housing NOW! coalition of over 200 organizations hopes to change. 

ceptable. Burps simply do not turn on prospective dates (un­less it's a really good burp). 
Most importantly, you must not insult the caller's intelli­gence. For example, you need not tell them that you are not answering the phone person­ally. Obviously you're not home or you wouldn't sound like Darth Vader on helium. You need also not tell them to l~ave a message. I mean, come on, what else would they leave? Recipes? For that matter, why bother telling them to leave their name and number? Don't they KNOW that much by now? This is almost the '90's you know. 
Come to think of it, I think what I'll do with my machine is to skip the message. I'll just set it up so that when a person calls, it just beeps and that's that. I figure this will create a kind of intelligent, yet "with it" sort of image. I mean, if any­one calls, hears the beep, and doesn't know what to do, I'm not to terribly sure I want to talk to them anyway. 
Dan Fontana will be a regular Accent columnist. 
-· 

.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~-----------~~----~----------------------­
page 12 The Observer Tuesday, October 10, 1989 
The Observer accepls class1ileds every busmess day from I 0 a m lo 3 ~0., m .JI !11•· Noire Dame olf1ce. 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 10 3 p m allhe Sa•PI M,vy s oltiOI Haggar College Cenler Deadlme lor nexl day class1f1eds IS 3 p.m All claSSIIieds rnusl b;, prepa•d The charge IS 2 cenls per characler per day mcluding spaces 
Classifieds 
NOTICES  NEEDED: RIDE TO ST L FOR BREAK. LEAVE AFTER USC­RETURN ANYTIME (PREF. 10/29)  WANTED: 2 STD & 4 GA FOR USC GAME WILL TOP ANY OFFER BIG BUCKS$$$  BIG CASH: Need three usc tix, student or  I need two student tickets to the USC game. Call Martha at x1331.  IF YOU HAVE A USC STUDENT TICKET TO SELL PLEASE CALL LISA 4937  
TYPING Pickup & Delivery 277-7406 TYPING JACKIE BOGGS 684-8793  WILL SHARE EXPENSES, DRIVING KATHY X3948 AIDE OFFD 10113-15 TO DTROIT OR ANY TOWN ON WAY X2768 FOR RENT  CALL BRIAN '1 026 ANYTIME NO PRICE TOO HIGH 1111!!1! NEED 3 PITI GA TIX $$CALL: 4272 WANTED: USC TIX BETWEEN  GA's, you'll be compensated very well. Please Call Mike@277-7441 NEED 2 NAVY GA'S WILL PAY TOP$ PLEASE CALL KEVIN x3170  I need GA tixs for all home games Esp. for USC $$ 284-5227 Patty NEED TWO GA'S FOR PITI CALL HEIDI287-8133 HELP!Ill NEED 2 USC GA'S WILL PAY$$ ANITA 4975  USC and NAVY G.A.'s and Student needed x1927 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Need 2 SMU Ga's $1 50 for both  
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 237-1949 Typing. Term papers, resumes, etc. on IBM PC. Call Sue's Secretarial Service at 299-0063. WORDPROCESSING 272-8827  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 FOR SALE COLOR TV RENTALS 19-INCH, $70/SEM, $120/YR; 25-INCH, $90/SEM, $160/YA FREE DELIVERY COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272­ THE 20 YD. LINES. WILL BUY OR EXCHANGE END ZONE SEATS+ CASH OR TICKETS TO NAVY, PITI OR SMU. 800-323-7687. NEED USC TIX JOE 171 4 I NEED JUST ONE U.S.C. GA-­call John at x3501.  PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI I need 4 GA's and 2 Stud's for the PITI game. Call Mike@ x1714. PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI PITI  I need one USC stud. I have mucho dinero. Please call Heather at#3765.  Call Sven at x 1770 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I have 2 GA's for both Pitt and USC. Best Offer 703-528-4367 DESPERATELY IN NEED OF 3 USC TICKETS OR AS MANY AS SOMEONE HAS TO OFFER. MONEY NO PROBLEM. CALL CARl AT 271-5651  
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. LOST/FOUND LOST: MINOL TA FREEDOM ZOOM 90 CAMARA. LAST SEEN IN MAIN CIRCLE. NOT INSURED, NOT PAID FOR, VERY, VERY VALUABLEIII CALL PETE AT #1863 ANYTIME! $100.00 REWARD.  5959 One way ticket, SB to ALBANY NY leaving Fri. 10/14 FOR SALE CHEAP Call x3442. ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1­602-838-8885 EXT. A6262. FOR SALE: ROUND-TRIP  NEED 2 USC tickets Call 502-354­8826 collect. 1 or 2 ND/USC tickets wanted. Call Mac COLLECT (509) 325-0519 nights NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE PITI GAMEl CALL VANESSA AT X4933.$$$$ NEED TWO GA'S FOR ANY HOME GAME ---CALL  NEED 2 GA'S FOR BOTH PITI. AND NAVY CALL CHERIE 4969 2 USC Stud Tix for sale-Call x 1330-Leave name/ph#/bid by noon 8/14 NEED TIX NEED TIX NEED TIX 4 Navy and 4 SMU, all stud tix. Please help! Jenny/Colleen x1330 I need a USC GA worse than all the  Mom and Dad are kind of weird. Even after seeing the boring Purdue game, they rarin' to see more ND football. Help them out. They'll buy any two G.A.s for any home game. Call #3714 and leave a message. I need USC tickets. If you have any to sell, call x.1692. Bust the Trojans. NEED 2 or 4 Pitt GA's  Help 2 ND GRADS driving from Houston.Need 2 USC tix-GA or student. Will pay $$$. Call Dena or Eric collect (71 3)669-8326. NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY I need 4 GA's and 2 Stud tickets for NAVY!! Call Steve@ x16611 NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY USC TKTS FOR SALE. MAKE US AN OFFER!277-6896  
LOST: Signet Ring with initials WFH lost in south quad by Alumni. Important sentimental reasons. Please call Bill at 1553. You will be rewarded , I promise Thank you very much.  TICKET FROM CHICAGO TO BOSTON FOR FALL BAEAK­$195111 WHAT A DEAL I!! CALL BRYAN AT 272-7313 AMPLIFIER -EV SPKAS, 300 WT.  PAUL X3406 I NEED ST. TICKS FOR PITI -----PAUL X3406----­NEED-N~1Vv-G;:S-C;LL;~-;:9830  rest of these lying schmucks!! John, 277-7450. PLEASE! NEED 2 PITI TIX-ST or GA CALL LINDA x2999 HEY YOU! Yeah, you. The one  Call Eric xl 008 NEED 2 USC GA'S MIKE x3501 CALIFORNIA DREAM IN: 4 GA tix for NO-USC. Top$ and Free  NEED 4 NAVY GA's PLEASE CALL KARIN x1321  
HEAD, HSA CABINET, HORN.  with the USC GA's_  Call John at  Dinners 4U. 233-9337 Days, 289­ 
LOST: A REWARD IS OFFERED  GREAT CONDITION. $250. CALL 277-8475.  NEED 8 USC TIX CALL2207  (219)-283-2005 for$$$$ or 2 SMU GA's.  9823 Nights.  PERSONALS  
TO ANYONE WHO FOUND MY HEWLETI-PACKAAD CALCULATOR (MAYBE IN NSH). THIS WAS A GRADUATION PRESENT AND I NEED IT FOR BOTH CLASSES AND SENTIMENTAL REASONS. PLEASE CALL COLLEEN X2634. I CAN IDENTIFY IT. MY BROWN LEATHER JACKET AND DUKE SWEATSHIRT WERE TAKEN FROM THE ROCKNE BUILDING ON 10/5 BETWEEN 2 AND 3 O'CLOCK. THEY HAVE MUCH PERSONAL VALUE TO ME-PLEASE RETURN, NO QUESTIONS ASKED. REWARD GIVEN. CINDY, 220 KNOTI. #4928. WANTED  Dolby B&C Tape Deck:$50; Auto Reverse Boom Box:$75; 19" Color TV:$200; Call Mark at 271-0672 ACADEMIC GOWN, DOCTORAL HOOD, MORTAR BOARD, EXCELLENT CONDITION. $45. 239-7405 OR 232-6415. SELLING ST. TKTS. 272-9719 Is It True .... Jeeps for $44 through the Government? Call for facts! 1­312-742-1142 Ext. 7316. MACE  Dad will disown me if I don't get 2 PITI GA's.Call Mike 232-4208 NEED USC GA'S WILL PAY $150 FOR PAIR MIKE X2451 OR X2473 BIG BUCKS PAID FOR ANY HOMEGA'S CALL PETE AT 277-7582 BIG BUCKS PAID FOR ANY HOMEGA'S CALL PETE AT 277-7582 NEED 2 PITI GAs CALL x1662  ALUMNI SR. CLUB MEMBERS ... MIAMI trip raffle for members only on Thurs Oct. 19th 10:00 pm win a trip for two to game, flight tickets and hotel. It's not too late to buy a membership $25 checks only. Membership has it's privledges! I! You need TXTS. call 277-3653 SORRY Alumni SR. club is going to be closed Sat Oct. 14th due to administrative reasons... Need student tickets for USC. Will pay $$$$. Call Bill, 271-8483 NEED 2 USC GA'S BADLY! CALL MOLLY X3885  I need 2 USC GA's. Call Todd x-1717. NEED 1 USC & 1 PITI GA CALL 1655 OR 4224 WANTED: 1 USC STUDENT TIC WILL TRADE FOR PITI STUD OR $$CALL ERIC 1803 NEED GA'S FOR USC AND PITI. CALL CHRIS AT x1067 Show my brother from Northwestern what football is really like. Sell me your NAVY ticket. Call Martin at 3343. I NEED PITI, SMU GA'S PLEASE!! #2819  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ INVESTMENT CLUB MEETING TONIGHT AT 7:30 ROOM 122 HAYS-HEALY LEARN HOW TO MAKE ENOUGH MONEY TO BUY FOOTBALL TICKETS!!! ALL ARE WELCOME. GET A HANDS ON LOOK AT HOW THE STOCK MARKET REALLY WORKS! $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Going to MIAMI of OHIO? I need a ride there the wknd. of Oct. 14. Will help with$. Call Sarah at #3484. BAUMER, STEVE (THAT IS) ARE YOU NERVOUS YET? YOU SHOULD BE BECAUSE YOU WILL PUKE II!!  
..  ATIENTION-HIRING! Government jobs -your area. $17,840-$69,485. Calll-602­838-8885. Ext R6262 ENTREPRENEURS WANTED. Earn $5,000-$15,000 in a summer management position and gain valuable business experience. Triple "A" Student Painters. Call Scott Ruhl 317 -362·4234. STUDENT talent ...................Nov. 10th lmprov Contest at Alumni Sr Club prizes up to $$$$100.00  PROTECT YOURSELF 4" purse size w/clip $9 local retail your price $7 limited supply call now 234-0515 HELP!! I HAVE BRAND NEW FUNAI VCR W/REM FOR SALE PAID $300 ON 9/20 -ASKING $265 OR BEST OFFER INCL. 2YR WAR &2 CLEANINGS CALL 1850 ONKYO TX-80 Receiver $1 70; Technics RS29R Tapedeck $160 Boston Acoustics A60 Spk. $210 Call237-1826  Need 2 SMU GA's.Call Sue x4702 Need 4 Miami Ga's, and/or USC stud tix. Mike x2093. I need 2 tickets to Air Force! Please call Kathy at 2636 I have 2 NAVY GAs I need 2 SMU GAs Let's swap--Call Mickey x1689 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 2 USC GA'S CALL BETH  I NEED 1 USC GA Please call Tim @ 1772 I need 2 NAVY GAs. Please call Stanley #2015. I need USC,SMU and Miami GAs Mike 287-3087 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ WANTED: 2 OR 3 PITI GA'S WILL PAY BIG BUCKS!! CALL MOLLY AT 4992 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED FOUR USC STUD. TIX  Life's a bowl of cherry PITIS­PITIS?-PITIS? I need 2 Pitt GA's!! Will pay big $$$ Joy x4857 I NEED 6 PITI STUD. TIX. PLEASE CALL STACY x2798. Will trade 1 USC and/or 1 Pitt stu tic for 1 Navy and/or 1 SMU stu tic. call277-2781. NEED PITI GA'S BETH 3706 NEED USC TIX CHERYL x2629  HAPPY BIRTHDAY SANDI! ENGLISH LESSONS. Experienced teacher of English to foreigners offers private lessons. $8 per hour. 232-6831. NEED A RIDE TO MPLSIST. PAUL FOR OCT. BREAK! WILL HELP WITH GAS $$ CALL LARA X4526 OR MICHELLE X2696 To the STRESS MONGREL: "and she was just sitting on the street. She had no arms, no legs, ... and juggled plates."  
Deadlin for lmprov nita at Alum. SR. Club OCT. 19th call277-3653 leave name and number ...  1 USC & 1 PITI STD. TIX FOR SALE -CALL & MAKE OFFER X2768  283-2722 PLEASE!! II!!! $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  BIG $$$ CALL PETE 232-4208 TOP$  I have 2 USC GA's; will trade for 2 Pitt GA's; call Mark x3331 or x3332  Kevin-You're my #!-always!! L  
"NEEDED' BASSIST  TICKETS  I need 3 SMU GA's and 4 MIAMI TIX. Call Don x2335  ALL HOME GA'S 312-920-9350  Will trade 2 SMU GA's for Pitt or USC GA's; call Mark x3331 or  ARTS AND LEITERS CAREER DAY. 30 CAREERS  
WE NEED A BASS PLA YER!I CALL DAVE 2320 OR RICH 3213 Help Wanted: Small S.B. book publisher seeks part-time assistant. Call afternoons 232­3134.  Travel Tour Operator needs tickets for all N.D. games-home and away, especially MSU, USC and Miami. Premium price paid. Immediate case available. Will trade for all major sporting events including Final 4, Indy 500 and  I need 3 USC Tix Call Dan X1417 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED USC AND MIAMI GA'S WILL GIVE BLANK CHECK!! !Ill! CALLJEFFAT1505. $$$$$  I NEED USC, MIAMI, & ALL HOME GAME TIX 272-6306 NAVYNAVYNAVYNAVYNAVY I need 5 G.A.'s or anything you have together NAME YOUR PRICE!!!!  x3332 I need 1 USC stud tix; call Bill x3363 Need 1 USC ticket-stud. or GA Call Wendy x4036  REPRESENTED. TOMORROW 12:00 IIOOn-4:00 p.m. C.C.E. ALL MAJORS INVITED. HEY BEAK IN MAN­WHADDAYA DOIN' FOR THE NAVY  
"'' CASH TODAY ""' for USC ,PITI tix stu or ga -Mark 271­5691. Need two Navy Ga's together Call Wally at 1388 BEACH ME! Sunchase Ski & Beach Breaks is hiring Campus Representatives to promote Spring Break to South Padre Island, Mustang Island, Hilton Head Island, Ft Lauderdale. Daytona Beach, and Steamboat. We pay TOP commissions & FREE lripsl Call 1-800-321-5911 today for a free application packet. Campus groups & organizations welcome'  bowl game, etc. Will also buy season tickets. Please call Dave at 1-800-828-8955 today. Need two SMU tix please call 284­49301111111111 TICKETS WANTED: 4 SO. CAL. (318) 942-9771, (W); (318) 942­7164, (H). CALL COLLECT. I'll buy any tickets for any home game, or Miami. call JEFF at 239-3714, leave a message. Thanks. Need TXTS All Games call Bill 277-3653 BIG MONEY FOR USC TICKETS  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED PITI GA'S AND STUDENT TIX. CALL CHRIS AT 283-4220. ..................................... NEED DESPERATELY TWO USC­NO TICKETS. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR ($$$) CALL FRANK IMMEDIATELY Ill DAY-(412) 658-2000 EVENING-(412) 654-6176. NEED 2 TICKETS FOR NOTRE DAME/USC GAME. PLEASE CALL COLLECT 619/565-8303. ASK FOR LARRY CORRIGAN. Looking to trade 2-4 Pitt GA's for 2-4 Penn St. tix. Please call Bo  Call Kyle-#3775 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ WANTED: MIAMI TICKETS CALL MATI AT 1961 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ TRADE: 2 Senior tix (sec. 29) for any two GA's for USC-call Pete X1699 I need 3 tickets UNDvs PITI Reasonable $$ Call K. Sherry 232-2051 NEED 6 SMU GA'S TIM 271-8795  Need SMU Ga's Call Mark 1 890 2 Tixs to all Home Games for sale 272-5092 ATIENTION !I HAVE RESERVATIONS FOR GRADUATION 1990 WILL "DEAL" G.A.'S FOR ANY '89 HOME GAME CALL DEBBIE AT 284-5202 .I NEED A NAVY GA FOR MOM MONEY NO PROBLEM call Scott x1635 after 8:30pm "TRADE"TRADE"'TRADE'' My Navy Stud for your USC Stud Call Julie X3864  GAME? IS YOUR IRISH UP? IS HE BIGGER? SEE YOU SOON. -THE ONE IN THE COLLAGE SIMON, DREW, SULLY, MATI, MIKE, AND JOHN --Thanks for entertaining Andy, Frank, and Szefi this weekend. You guys are great -I just hope you didn't corrupt them! Love, Sarah CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable atmosphere, daily & weekly specials, pool table, English darts,  
I NEED 10.  STUDENT or GA  at x2352 if interested.  and great company. 234-3541  
Call  FRANK 287-5320  HELPII  My Dad, Agamemnon, just  'need 2 USC ga's Rick #1795  I need 1 SMU GA, 2 PITI TIX. Pay $$$ xl 103 BILL  HiAgl  
OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo.  NEED GAS FOR PITI,  hates the Trojans.  I need  USC Tickets Needed  
Summer, Yr. round, All Countries,  NAVY & SMU $$$$  4GAstoUSC  3 GA's. Will pay$$$$_  Have-1 Pitt stud tix. John x2292  
All fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO  CALL TOM & MARTY  Please call Marty at 277-4392  Call John at 283-2005.  
BX 52-Corona Del Mar CA 92625  X 3185  see CLASS I page 14  

Tuesday, October 10, 1989 The Observer 
page 13 

Vikings express interest in Dallas running back Walker 
Associated Press  What  would  it  take  for  
Walker to change his mind?  
EDEN  PRAIRIE,  Minn.  - Lynn  needs  to  convince  
Calling Herschel Walker unique, Minnesota Vikings general  Walker that Minnesota is a swell place to play and, at the  
manager Mike Lynn said Monday that he will pursue a trade for the Cowboys' star runner this week when he is in  same time, will have to make Walker's wallet swell. Walker said he's "always been happy in Dallas" but  
Dallas for NFL meetings. Lynn, who on Tuesday will  wouldn't mind playing for a contender, which Minnesota is.  
begin meeting with other owners in an effort to select a  And though he said wouldn't "let money tell  he me  
successor commissioner  to retiring Pete Rozelle,  what to do," he'd also like a healthy raise, He's in the fourth  
hopes to do a little dealing on  season of a five-year, $5 million  
the  side  with  Dallas  owner  contract.  
Jerry Jones and Coach Jimmy Johnson.  Several players were rumored to be part of the deal, but Lynn  
lie also said he'll be talking  has  hinted  that  the  offer  
to  other organizations in  an  consisted only of several high  
effort  to  improve  the Vikings  draft picks.  
before the deadline.  Oct.  17  trading  Burns said he would happily trade draft choices for impact  
Lynn considers the Vikings vPry close to being a Super Bowl team and agrees with Coach Jerry Burns that championship teams need overpowering running games, Walker led the NFC with 1,514 rushing yards last year and caught 53 passes for 505 yards. lie hasn't been as effective for the Cowboys this year. Dallas (0-5) is rebuilding and is going with a more pass­oriented offense under Johnson. The Vikings and Cowboys had reportedly worked out a trade last week, but the runner said  players like Walker. The Vikings have been successful doing that in recent years, getting linebacker Mike Merriweather, tackle Gary Zimmerman and receiver Anthony Carter via draft trades. "There's always a conflict between the coach and front office," Lynn said. "The coach wants to win now. So do I, but I have to be very careful about mortgaging the future." Nevertheless, he acknowledged that a possible deal for Walker "is the kind of case that brings the coaches  leading rusher has been talk1ng trade with the Minnesota Vikings, a team which sports greater potential to be Super Bowl contenders than his 0-5 Cowboys. with total yardage over 2,000 put the Vikings closer to that a very unique case, one that yards last year. There's very goal. doesn't come around but once few players around that can every 10 years. give you that type of "We like to add four new "I think we've taken some production," Lynn said. "This starters every year, but we risk and, so far, the deals have is a unique case for a unique made the Merriweather trade panned out." player." last draft day, so we're not going to get four this year," Vikings backs averaged onlyLynn said. "So you would think He said it was more 2.8 yards a carry in last week's our draft choices would be veryimportant to win one Super 24-17 victory over winless important to us now.Bowl than to have four 10­Detroit but Burns said, "I don't  
he didn't Minnesota.  want  to  come  to  and front office together." "You're talking about a  guy  victory another  seasons and impact player  that could  "But Herschel Walker, that's  like to blame it running backs."  all  on  the  


ND stays atop AP poll; Colorado steadily gains respect 
Record Pts Pvs Associated Press Notre Dame, which defeated 14 and Arkansas defeated Washington State and Florida 1. Notre Dame (54) 5·0-0 1,494 1 
Stanford 27-17 Saturday, re­Texas Christian 41-19. Their State. Air Force and Washing­
2. Miami. Fla. (4) 5-0-0 1,428 2 
The poll says No. 2 Miami is ceived 54 first-place votes and rankings were unchanged from ton State are tied for 17th.
3. Colorado (2) 5-0-0 1,371 3 
4. 
Nebraska 5-0-0 1,298 4 better than No, 3 Colorado. 1,494 points from a nationwide last week. No. 21 Michigan State and 

5. 
Michigan 3-1-0 1,232 5 Missouri cornerback Otis Smith panel of sports writers and No. 22 UCLA each moved up

6. 
Tennessee 5-0-0 1,205 6 says the poll is wrong. broadcasters. The Fighting Houston climbed four spots three spots. Rounding out the


7. Arkansas 4-0-0 1,108 7 
"My belief is that Colorado is Irish have been No. 1 in every after beating Baylor 66-10, Top 25 were newcomers Penn
8. Houston 4-0-0 1,002 12 
9. 
Pittsburgh 4-0-1 994 8 way better than Miami," Smith poll since the season started, while Pittsburgh and Southern State, South Carolina, Brigham 

10. 
Southern Cal 4-1-0 951 9 said. "They're faster, bigger, Miami remained No. 2 follow­Cal each fell one place despite Young and Florida. BYU and 

11. 
Alabama 4-0-0 888 13 stronger and a better team ing a. 56-0 rout of Cincinnati. winning. The Panthers beat Florida were tied for 25th.


12. Auburn 3-1-0 869 11 
overall." The Hurricanes received four Temple 27-3 and the Trojans
13. N. Carolina St. 6-0-0 727 14 
14. 
Clemson 5-1-0 684 15 first-place votes and 1,428 downed Washington 24-16. 

His opinion is based on first­Penn State, coming off its

15. 
Oklahoma 4-1-0 679 16 points, 57 more than Colorado. 16.111inois 3-1-0 593 18 hand experience. Two weeks West Virginia fell the far­first losing season in 50 years, 


17. Air Force 6-0-0 498 20 ago, Missouri was beaten by Next is Nebraska, which im­thest, dropping from a tie for improved to 4-1 with a 17-0 
(tie) Washington St. 5-1-0 498 21 
Miami 38-7. Saturday, the proved to 5-0 with a 58-7 vic­ninth to 20th after being upset victory over Rutgers.
19. Florida St. 3-2-0 470 22 
20. 
West Virginia 4-1-1 394 9 Tigers fell to Colorado 49-3. tory over Kansas State, The by Virginia Tech 12-10. It was 

21. 
Michigan St. 2-2-0 273 24 Smith wasn't the only one im­Cornhuskers are followed by the Mountaineers' first regular­


Dropping out of the rankings

22. 
UCLA 3-2-0 226 25 pressed by Colorado. The Buf­Michigan (3-1), Tennessee (5-season defeat since 1987. were Syracuse, Texas A&M and

23. Penn St. 4-1-0 82 
faloes received two first-place 0), Arkansas (4-0), Houston (4­
24. South Carolina 4-1-1 77 Oregon. Syracuse lost to 
votes in Monday's Associated 0}, Pittsburgh (4-0-1) and
25. Brigham Young 4-1-0 66 Alabama led off the Second Florida State 41-10, Texas 
(tie) Florida 4-1-0 66 Press poll and drew closer to Southern California (4-1). Ten, followed by Auburn, North A&M was beaten by Texas Tech Miami and top-ranked Notre Michigan beat Wisconsin 24-Carolina State, Clemson, Okla­27-24 and Oregon fell to Wash­Dame. All three teams are 5-0. 0, Tennessee edged Georgia 17 ~ homa, Illinois, Air Force, ington State 51-38. 

Placement Exams 
French Spanish 
Mandatory Placement Exams in French and Spanish will be given on Thursday October 12 and Friday October 13 respectively. Students who have studied French or Spanish in high school but have not yet taken a course in these languages at Notre Dame must take a Placement Exam prior to registration. 
Sign up sheets and further information are available in the Language Lab Office Room 251 O'Shaughnessy. 
Sign up closes on Wednesday October 11 at 5:00pm. 
lnterhall 
continued from page 20 
filled the air, Trent Boneau 
shot 60 yards for the game's 
only score, stunning Urban 
Gillespie's Alumni Dogs. Binh 
Le added the extra point, 
finishing the scoring at seven. 
The rest of the game was a gladiatorial brawl for Cavanaugh the eventual victor, as free safety Marty Kelly and defensive lineman Wally Crapps hauled in interceptions to settle the issue. The Dog defense closed the game on an up note, with a smothering goal-line stand to halt a 94-yard drive by Cavanaugh. 
Rockne League competition saw Sorin (2-0) top Fisher (1­
2) 7-6, as the Otters broke up a two-point conversion attempt 
,~ Ihe Obsaver___ 
is looking for people who are: V' snsrgstic 
V' motivated 

V' responsible 
V' interested in advertising 
to work as advertising representatives 
For more information, contact : 
Molly Killen at The Observer #239-6900 or at #3631. 
by the Green Wave on the last play of the game. 
Sorin reached the end zone in the third quarter with a 20­yard pass, which had been set up by Mark Massinopale's in­terception. Yet the Sorin de­fense saved the day, as Fisher's two-point conversion attempt was batted down with no time left. . In the day's other action, Zahm (1-2) ended a long dry season, paralyzing the Holy Cross Hogs (0-2-1) 13-0, while Carroll (2-1) topped Pangborn (1-1) 8-6, and Morrissey (1-2) hit paydirt with a 12-7 rout of Keenan (0-2-1). 
Next Sunday, Stanford seeks to play the spoiler against Cavanaugh at Stepan North at 2 p.m., Zahm tries its luck with Alumni at Stepan South at 1 p.m., St. Ed's battles Fisher at Stepan North at 3 p.m., Pangborn will spar with Sorin at Stepan South at 2 p.m., Grace and Morrissey clash at Stepan North at 1 p.m., Off­Campus duels Keenan at Stepan North at 4 p.m., and Planner and Dillon collide at Stepan South at 3 p.m. 

Howe plans to return to NHL 
Associated Press 

DETHOIT -Gordie Howe, who rPtired in 1980 as hockey's all-time scoring leader after a 26-year career, says he will return to the ice in 1990 to add another record to his long list of achievements -playing in six decades. 
The 61-year-old !lowe, who finished his NIIL career with 1,850 points, said he plans to rejoin the Hartford Whalers for one game next year. Howe finished his career with Hartford in 1980 after a career spent mostly with the Detroit Hed Wings. 
Asked Sunday what he thought about Wayne Gretzky's drive to topple his point record, Howe said he planned to set a new record and challenged Gretzky to match it. He and the Los Angeles Kings star are friends_ 
Howe watched Gretzky pick up three assists in 5-0 victory over the Red Wings in Los Angeles on Sunday night to move within seven points of Howe's career point mark_ 
"The only record I'm going to make sure about is that I'm going to come out of retirement after the New Year to play one more game in the '90s so that I've played in six decades," Howe told the Detroit Free Press. "Then I challenge the little guy (Gretzky) to do that." 
Howe also holds the NHL records for most seasons (26), games (1,767), goals (801), game-winning goals (122), All­Star selections (21) and playoff appearances (20). 
Howe played for Detroit from 1946-71 and for Hartford in 1980. 
If Gretzky stays on pace he will break Howe's scoring record this year in his 11th season-15 seasons sooner than it took !lowe to achieve that milestone. 
For rhe fac[S call }Uur kxal Rtd Cwss. or wrire' AIDS 
+
American Rtd Cross 1::!: \\llslungwn. oc 20006 

Class 
continued from page 12 
ARTS AND LETTERS CAREER DAY. 30CAREERS REPRESENTED. TOMORROW 
12:00 noon-4:00p.m. C.C.E. ALL MAJORS INVITED. 
Win a trip for two to the Miami game $1 for 1 chance $3 for 5 chances $5 for 1 0 chances Contact Sophomore Class Office 239-5525 

ADOPTION: Loving, professional couple in Midwest wishes to adopt newborn. We offer stable and happy home, financial security, welcoming extended family. PLEASE call collect 513-751-6711 after 6:30 pm weekdays, anytime weekends. Attorney involved. 
ADOPTION: Loving couple dreaming of adopting white infant. LETS HELP EACH OTHER! 
Legal/confidential. Expenses paid .. 
Catl Lillian and Ed collect, 
ANYTIME (212) 645-4344 
Val + Eileen, Here I am getting PERSONAL! 
RC 
PAT BRUKS So whose date was she? 
Will Archie ever graduate from Riverdale High? 
Thought for the Day: If elvis were alive today, he'd be a Traveling Wilbury 
USC TIX NEEDED!!! 4 GA'S AND 2 STUD. CALL SHARON 238-5246 
SENIORS.........................SENIORS 
• MANDATORY• 
SENIOR CLASS TRIP MEETING for all those going to Cancun. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER II 
From 6:30 to 7:30 in THEODORES. 
WILLING TO TRADE USCTIX FOR KNOTT HALL SYRTIX 
ARTS AND LETTERS CAREER DAY. 30 CAREERS REPRESENTED. TOMORROW 
12:00 noon-4:00p.m. C.C.E. ALL MAJORS INVITED. 
TO LOOGER, BODACIOUS, AMNESIA, DOUGIE, AND OUR FAVORITE TOPLESS DANCER: 
THANKS FOR THE COW PASTURE FROLICKS. "WE'LL NEVER" HAVE A BETTER TIME. THE LAMP SHADES AND THE STROBE LIGHTS ARE ON. NEXT WEEK YOU BUY THE BEER! 
THE MEN FROM GRACE 

TRACY NEMECEK Doobie Plays Vibes 
Bucs -42 
Bears-35 
That was only a start... 
Tampa Bay in Super Bowl XXIV 
October Break Ride needed to Detroit Area for October Break. Will share gas. Want to leave after USC game and return anytime after Thursday. 
Please call Matt @xl650 
NEEDED: RIDE FOR 2 TO BUFFALO AREA AFTER USC GAME. WILL PAY$. CALL KEITH AT XI045. 

To the girl at THEO's sat. night between II:30 -12:00, with blonde hair wearing a red vest, I NEED TO MEET YOU on the steps of the architecture bldg Thurs at 7:00pm. Ciao, KJH 
Chris, 
Gotcha!! Hope your enjoying your 
lunch!ll couldn't let you be two up! 
Debbie 
p.s. your awesome!! 
ARTS AND LETTERS CAREER DAY. 30 CAREERS REPRESENTED. TOMORROW 12:00 noon-4:00p.m. C.C.E. ALL MAJORS INVITED. 
''Iwasrrt rubbing
it in-I justwanted Eddie to know the score of lastnightsgame..,., 

BACCHUS is sorry to announce 
a cancellation of the Mock Trial 
scheduled for Tuesday night, 
Oct. 10, due to complications. 
Please look for a later date. 
NHUNGPHAM 
a double celebration­turning 19 AND getting married Have a great time! 
I need ride to, from Buffalo for 
break. Call Bill x II03 
MIAMI FLIGHTs• MIAMI FLIGHTS 
Round-trip airfares to Miami or 
Fort Lauderdale. Depart 
November 23 from Midway 
(Chicago); return November 27 to 
Midway (Chi.) . $239 for students, 
$265 for others. Tix sold on first ­
come, first-serve basis, and are 
non-refundable. Anthony Travel 
1-800-?DOMERS 
HAPPY 23RD BIRTHDAY 
TED (aka TEETLES) 
FITZGERALD!!!!!!!!!! Love, 
Kathleen 
$$$$ NO Investment Club $$$$$ $$$ Meeting Tonight at 7:30 $$$ Room 122 Hays-Healy COME FIND OUT HOW TO MAKE 
MORE MONEY THAN DONALD TRUMP !!! ALL WELCOME... 
ADOPTION is a beautiful beginning. Your baby will thrive as a loved member of our happy family. Our family can't grow any other way. Medical/counseling expenses paid. Call collect anytime 0-317-497-9939. 
Go ahead and gloat. You can rub it in all the way to Chicago with AT&T Long Distance Service. Besides, your best frienc Eddie was the one who said your team could never win three straight. 
So give him acall. It costs a lot less than you think to let him know who's headed for the Playoffs. Reach out and touch someone~ 
Ifyoutllike to know more about AT&T products and services, like International Calling and the AT&T card, call us at 1800 222-0300. 

AM 
The right choice. 

Tuesday, October 10, 1989 The Observer page 15 
Islanders beat Canucks 5-2· Bruins down Canadians 2-0 
Associated Press 
VANCOUVER, British 
Columbia -The New York Is­
landers scored four times 
within five minutes in the third 
period and rallied to beat the 
Vancouver Canucks 5-2 Mon­
day. 
Goals by David Volek, Doug 
Crossman, Brent Sutter and 
Alan Kerr wiped out a 2-1 Van­
couver lead. 
Vokek, who assisted on two 
other goals, tied the score when 
he batted in a rebound at 
14:06. Crossman and Sutter scored on power plays and Kerr added an empty-net marker to complete the come­back. The Islanders had lost their first two games of the season. 
Patrick Flatley scored the 
other New York goal and com­
bined with Volek and Sutter to 
form the most dangerous at­
tacking unit. 
Vancouver scorers were Petri 
Skriko and Paul Reinhart as the 
Canucks dropped to 1-2. 
In the third, New York fired 
19 shots at Vancouver goalie 
Steve Weeks, who kept the 
Canucks in the game until the 
last five minutes. New York fin­
ished with 30 shots on goal, 
while the Canucks had 37 shots 
on Glen Healy, who made sev­
eral difficult saves during the 
scoreless opening period, most 
of them during two Vancouver 
power plays. 
Vancouver scored 33 seconds 
into the second when Skriko's 
long shot from inside the blue 
line handcuffed Healy. 
The Islanders picked up the tempo in the second and were rewarded at 5:28 when Flatley converted a pass from Volek. 
The play was started by a sharp headman pass from de­fenseman Jeff Norton in the neutral zone. 
The Canucks failed to finish several good scoring chances in the second. Larionov put a backhander behind Healy and through the crease on a break­away, while Krutov rattled a rising backhander off the post. 
Reinhart gave the Canucks a 2-1 lead at 5:59 of the third. 
Bruins 2, Canadiens 0 
Cam Neeley and Randy Bur­ridge scored in the first period and goalie Reggie Lemelin earned his ninth NHL shutout as the Boston Bruins edged Montreal Monday night for their first regular season vic­tory over the Canadiens since Feb. 4, 1988. 
Lemelin, making his 1989-90 season debut, had 24 saves as the Bruins improved their record to 2-1 while handing Canadiens their first loss in three starts. 
The Bruins, 0-7-1 against Montreal last season, peppered goalie Brian Hayward with 40 shots, while dominating the ac­tion after the opening minutes. 
Boston outshot Montreal 15­5 in the first period 
Neely broke a scoreless standoff at 11:44 when he took a passout from Craig Janney and scored from just outside the crease for his third power play of the season. 
Then, at 19:57, Burridge took a pass from Glen Wesley and sent s short flip past Brian Hayward for his first goal a split second before he was 

leveled by Montreal defenseman Petr Svoboda. Burridge's goal  the Bruins were unable to capi­talize on a 5-minute manpower  advantage late in the second period.  
was  Boston's  first  at  even  advantage.  Then he made  a  half dozen  
strength after seven power play  outstanding  saves  while  the  
goals. Svoboda received major and  Lemelin protected the shutout with saves on three long shots  Bruins were shorthanded again after Neely was penalized at  
game misconduct penalties, but  while Montreal pressed a man  12:55 of the final period.  


a consu tant at 


We're Lante Corporation. One of America's fastest growing microcomputer consulting firms. And this Wednesday, October 11th,we're coming to campus to give an overview of Lante to interested graduates at 7 p.m. in the Alumni Room of the Morris Inn. 
If you're an upcoming graduate with a passion for microcomputers and the possibilities they offer, we'd like to talk with you. A desire to consult for a wide range of firms from high growths to Fortune 500 companies makes you even more important to us. 
We're located in the heart of Chicago's Loop and we can offer qualified candidates a great city, outstanding opportunities and an exciting work environment that will let you put your best foot forward. 
On November 13th, we will be recruiting through the Colleges of Engineering, Business, and Arts and Letters. Contact your Recruiting Office for more information. 
k~te Consulting 
©1989 Lame Corporation, Chicago, IL 60601 
page 16 The Observer Tuesday, October 10, 1989 
Sailing steps towards prominence R~iders imJ?rove to 2-4 
The Sailing Club took a break from co-
With 14-7 WIn over Jets 
ed regattas so its women's team could travel Mike Kamradt 
Associated Press to the United States Naval Academy to com­Hoger Vick dived in from the pete in the Navy Fall Women's Intersectional. EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -1. 
The Irish knew the competition would be Club Corner Eddie Anderson returned an in­Late in the third period,tough going into the regatta, but they were terception 87 yards for a Schroeder was intercepted at not intimidated by the national powers from touchdown Monday night to lift the New York 4 by McMillan,
Brown, Connecticut College, Navy or -------------------­
the Los Angeles Raiders to a who returned it 41 yards. But Charleston. 14-7 victory over the New York that paled in comparison to 
Notre Dame finished ninth out of 16 teams seven alternate players in the 19-4 rout. Anderson's stunning run, the
Jets in Art Shell's debut as an 
to virtually guarantee a national ranking Another plus to come out of the weekend is NFL head coach. third-longest interception re­among the top 15 teams in the nation. that on Sunday the Irish will have six players 
Shell, 42, is the first black turn in Raiders' history.
"We're ecstatic!" proclaimed club president trying out for the Indiana select side. Rob head coach in the league since Anderson picked off Ken Paige Cooper. " No team gets ranked Graham, Wally Maloney, Mike Smiggen, Jim 1925. He replaced Mike Shana­O'Brien's pass at the 13, 
overnight. The first step was getting invited Dudley, Brian Lennon and Sean McNamara seemed stopped near the 30,
han, who was fired last Tues­
to the Nationals last May where we finished will attempt to make a team that will com­broke Griggs' weak attempt at
day after the Raiders got off to 
15th out of 16, but this is a major accom­pete against other select sides from Midwest a tackle and headed for the
a 1-3 start. 
plishment." states in a tournament in Peoria Ill. the fol­sideline. O'Brien was the only
The Raiders showed little 
A major accomplishment indeed, consider­lowing weekend. Jet within range but couldn't
spark for much of the game.
ing the fact that Notre Dame will be the only But they made more big plays catch the safety. 
club team among the ranked teams. All that This weekend the club will take three teams than the Jets, who fell to 1-4, 0-It was Anderson's first inter­means is that the Irish use their talent and to Kalamazoo to take on a mixed club of 3 at home. Los Angeles didn't ception this season and the hearts to overcome the lack of varsity fund­older, bigger forwards and college-age, quick even need star running back first touchdown of his four­ing. backs. 
Mareus Allen, who strained his year career. 
Tlw A boat sailed by Paige Cooper and "This will be a real challenge for us," pre­right knee in the third quarter,Patti Losinske finished 1Oth overall. The two dicted Smiggen. " They beat us last year, and in lifting their all-time best On the game's final posses­
girls split the skippering duties during the they have a really good organization with prime time record to 27-6-1. sion, O'Brien lnd New York to regatta. The B boat, piloted by Lisa Fox and quality players." 
After the listless opening half the Los Angeles 11, but the Jets crnwed by the alternating Laura Sullivan and -the first scoreless one in the were penalized for holding and 
Kathleen Halloran. finished eighth. The Boxing Club will have their Novice NFL this season -the teams he threw an incomplete pass in The Irish weathered a blustery Saturday Tournament this Friday at 4:30 p.m. in the woke up for 9 1/2 minutes. th11 end zone on the final play.and a dead calm Sunday to finish ahead of North Dome of the Joyce ACC. The novice 
Los Angeles needed only two The first half was a pPrfect
already ranked teams Michigan and boxers have been working out for the last plays to go ahead in the third example of two last-placeCharleston. The women's team will now have five weeks. 
quarter. teams doing what they've done to wait until November to see exactly where "We've been working on getting them in Vance Mueller ran 19 yards all year -struggln.
they are in the rankings. The club will have a boxing shape," explained club president Doug to the Raiders' 27, then Jayco-ed regatta at Ohio State this weekend. Biolchini. "The purpose of the Novice Schroeder hit Mervyn Fernan­The Haiders had almost no 
The Rugby Club went into this weekend's Tournament is to teach them techniques and dez on an out pattern. Fernan­offense as they worn plagued byIndiana Union Tournament hoping to knock to get them experience at a smaller level so dez eluded Bobby Humphery poor field position, droppedoff Purdue for the second straight weekend. that the Bengal Bouts don't feel new to and Erik McMillan in the sec­passes and weak blocking.Unfortunately , Notre Dame couldn't muster them." Schroeder even was sacked
ondary, streaked down the 
enough to defeat the tough Boilermakers twice by the Jets' usually inef­
right sideline, then cut toward 
again. They lost 13-0. There will be 24 fighters competing in the the middle to complete a 73-fective pass rush. 
" We came out flat," said club president tournament and all are anxious to get on the yard touchdown on his only re­Their only scoring chance in Mike Smiggen. "We weren't as up as we canvas and show what they have. Many of ception of the game. It was the the first half came on the final should have been." the fighters have discovered there is much sixth straight game that Fer­play, when Jeff Jaeger was well 
Purdue got a 4-point try four minutes into more to boxing that meets the eye. short on a 43-yard field goal
nandez had gotten into the end 
the game and not soon after, converted a attempt.
zone -he is averaging 23.3 
penalty kick to make the score 7-0. The Irish "''ve learned that boxing isn't just a sport yards on his 18 catches this New York movf1d the ball buckled down from there, but Purdue locked where two people just pummel each other," season. well, getting into Los Angeles up the game with a try and conversion with 5 stated senior Chris Sullivan. "It requires a The Jets came right back, territory on its first four pos­minutes to go. lot more mental preparation than I expected overcoming the errors that vic­sessions. But O'Brien's passes
The Irish rebounded on Sunday to beat Ball because you have to know when to throw timized them in the first half. were off-target, usually over­State and take third place in the tournament. your combinations." They went 97 yards in 15 plays, thrown, and he dearly missed The score stood at 4-4 in at the end of the Each fight will be three rounds. The weight sparked by a 23-yard comple­receivers AI Toon, Mickeyfirst half, thanks to a Mike Mohlenkamp try. classes will go from 120-pound flyweight to tion to Billy Griggs and a 26-Shuler and Wesley Walker. All The Irish exploded for 15 second half points fighters weighing 210 in the heavyweight di­yarder to JoJo Townsell on three are injured and only Toon and were able to play every player, including vision. third down. played briefly. 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 

game ranked 4th in the nation. The Irish knew they would need to play a near­perfect game in order to emerge with a tie or a victory. 
Santa Clara struek first, early in tho first half. Jnff Baidwr scornd at the fourtenn minutn mark on a beautiful, individual effort. Bairher fwaded two Irish defenders, Dave Augustyn and Jeff Hhodes, then gunned a hard shot into tlw upper right eorner from twenty five yards out. 
The Irish did not panic after 
this early goal. They eventually 
settled down and engineered 
some scoring chances of their 
own, although unsuccessful. At 
halftime, the Irish were down 
1-0. Nevertheless, they believed 
that they could play with their 
opponent, according to senior 
co-captain Dave Augustyn. 
Early in the second hal f. Santa Clara quickly squashed any aspirations the Irish had of pulling off the upset. In a span of 7:33. Santa Clara erupted for three goals to put the game out of reach. for the remainder of the half they continw1d to dominate play at both ends of the field. Santa Clara ended up out shooting the Irish, 17-3. 
"They were really a great team. We had some ehances in the first half and felt good that we were still in it," said Augustyn in assessing the game. "Then. in the second half, their offense took over." 
With the conclusion of the weekend games, the Irish remain winless in their last five games. In the downslide, the Irish have been outscored 12-4. Things do not get any easier on the Irish schedule either. This Friday night, they play top­twenty ranked Akron University at Krause Stadium. All this is reason for concern to Augustyn. 
"We are a long way from finding ourselves as a team. We're stagnant right now," said the senior defender. "I felt we played our best game yet against Indiana last week (a 3­1 loss), but we haven't built on it; we haven't gone any further as a team." 
Indeed the Irish do have the personnel and the potential to be a top twenty team. They have shown flashes of brilliance against some of the nation's best teams this season. If they can come together more as a cohesive unit and play consistently well, the Irish soccer team believes it can definitely achieve its, goal of making the NCAA tournament. 
"It's a long road left. We have a lot of games to play," Augustyn said. "If we start off with a good game against Akron and build off of it, I don't see why we can't move on and make the NCAA tournament." 

Saint Louis University's 
Academic Year In Madrid 
COMPLETE CURRICULUM: English, Spanish, Liberal Arts, Business & Administration, TESOL, Sciences, Hispanic Studies 
SLU In Madrid Is a member of ANEOE 
Graduate Courses offered during Summer Session 

Apply NOW for Spring, Summer and Fall 
More than 1,000 students In the Program. 
Contact: 

Saint Louis University In Madrid Saint Louis University 
Bravo Murillo, 38 Study Abroad Coordinator Edlflclo Gonzaga, Plants Baja Admissions Office Madrid 28015 Spain 221 North Grand Blvd. Tel: 593-3783 St. Louis, MO 631 03 
Toll-free tel: 1-800-325-6666 

to you! No coupon, no limit! Just bring in your film between October 10-17and we will process and print your film for the following savings: 
12x All 12 exposure film 99¢. 24x 135rnrn, 110, 126-24x $1.99 36x 135rnrn $2.99 
photolgraphtcs of Educational Media 
University of Notre Dame Center for Continuing Edt:cation, Rm 13 Notre Dame, IN 46556 I 219 • 239 • 7630 

Tuesday, October 10, 1989 The Observer page 17 
Athletics riding high after winning bid to '89 World Series 
Oakland building 'dynasty' as they claim AL pennant 
playoffs). We didn't have a
Associated Press 
player like him last year, a guy 
OAKLAND, Calif. (APJ -Ever who can steal at will and be a 
so slowly, when baseball people great leadoff hitter." 
talk about the Oakland Henderson's snatch catches 
Athletics, they say: "potential and his stutter-step home run 
dynasty." trots got booed by the Toronto 
The A's won the American fans. But they, along with Dave 
League pennant in 1988 and Parker's home run strolls and 
made changes for this year. Canseco's drives in the fast 
They signed free agent pitcher lane, giveth A's their image. 
Mike Moore for $3.95 million "There's a fine line between 
last December. They traded for rigidity and discipline," 
outfielder Hickey Henderson on Alderson said. "Tony's there to 
June 20. And they won the maintain discipline yet not stifle 
pnnnant again, closing out the creativity and originality and 
Toronto Blue Jays on Sunday in enthusiasm." 
live games. La Russa finished each 
It doesn't take much for a playoff game drenched in 
dynasty these days. The A's are sweat. Expending a little 
the first repeat pennant winner nervous energy, Tony? 
since the New York Yankees "That was a struggle," he 
and Los Angeles Dodgers each said after Saturday's 6-5 
did it in 1978. The 11-year victory in Game 4. "Whew." 
stretch was the longest in He said he thinks he handles 
baseball history without a team the pressure well. 
winning consecutive pennants. ''I'm probably in better shape 
The A's will open the World to go through these games than 
Series at home Saturday. my family or the front office 
Sandy Alderson, the vice guys who don't see every 
president for baseball game," he said. 
operations, and Tony La Russa, Alderson disagreed. A little. 
the manager, choose their "I see almost every game," he 
words carefully. said. 
"To me. we won the division However, Saturday's game 
the first three months of the did get to him. He didn't watch 
season as much as anything we Game 3 of the National League 
did," La Russa said. playoffs that night. 
That's because Jose Canseco 
didn't play until July 13 because "I had to avoid watching it," 
a stress fracture in his right Alderson said Sunday before 
hand, Mark McGwire missed 14 the A's won the AL series. "I 
games with a bad back and can take only so much baseball 
Dennis Eckersley missed 40 a day and yesterday I got all I 
games with a strained right needed." 
shoulder. When they won three 
"I like to turn negative into consecutive World Series 
positive," La Russa said. "It during the 1970s and five 
may have been helpful. I'd be straight AL West titles, they 
curious to know how we would were known as "The Swingin' 
have done." A's." Charlie Finley's team had 
The biggest difference bravado, braggards and 
between the '89 A's and the '88 brawn. They were led by Reggie 
A's appears to be Henderson. Jackson and they had big talent 
His speed added to the offense and big mouths. But they 
and his presence brought out backed it up. 
the flair. 
"I think the addition of This Oakland team is 
Rickey Henderson was the key," beginning to let loose, too. It 
McGwire said. "He showed it by certainly got to the Blue Jays 
getting the MVP (in the AL and their fans. 

Vista is in town 
Learn more about career opportunities in business for science and engineering students. ND'89 graduates will present Vista Chemical Company's Business Career De­velopment Program on Wednesday, October 18 at 7:30 
p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center. Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors are welcome. 
VISTA 
Vista Chemical Company, Houston, Texas An Equal Opportmity Employer M/F 

Outfielder Rickey Henderson of the Oakland Athletics is one of the main reasons the A's are garnering a reputation as a dynasty. Henderson was a catalyst for the A's when Jose Canseco, Mark McGwire and Dennis Eckersley were missing from the lineup due to injuries and he hetped the A's become the first team in 11 years to win consecutive pennants. 
Athletics worth the wait for loyal fans 

Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif.-The Oakland Athletics missed a flight from Toronto and didn't ex,pect many fans to welcome them home early Monday after winning the American League pennant. 
But they were surprised. 
At least 500 enthusiastic fans 
were waiting at Oakland Inter­
national Airport when their 
heroes appeared shortly after 1 
a.m. Some fans had waited sev­eral hours for the team. 
"We got ready to leave Toronto and someone said we'd get home too late and there wouldn't be anybody waiting for us," A's Manager Tony La Russa said, as the crowd let out a roar. 
Dave Stewart, the winning pitcher in Sunday's 4-3 victory over the Blue Jays, and La Russa joined several players who walked from the cpstoms clearance area to an outdoor podium in the balmy night air. 
"We went to Toronto and we decided to have a little fun, but we still have some unfinished business," Stewart told the crowd, including some who wore green body paint and blond wigs. "And this time, 

we're going to try and get it 
done." 
Other fans carried or wore 
A's paraphernalia to show their 
euphoria over Oakland's second 
straight AL pennant, the first 
team to accomplish that feat in 
11 years. 
"You go through every game 
with them, and you've just got 
to come out and support 
them," said Tony Tenorio, 18, 
of Alameda, an Ohlone College 
baseball player who was there 
to greet the A's. 
Harry Legendre, of Antioch, wore a bright gold wig, an A's jacket and T-shirt and rang a cowbell with a team logo. He arrived at 10:30 p.m. 
"My wife thinks I'm nuts," 
Legendre said. ''I'm a diehard 
fan. I think the team is. more 
with it this year. It came too 
easy for them last year." 
Gladys Stout, who said she was in her 70s, arrived with her granddaughter and great­granddaughter. 
"I want to see those A's come in," said Stout, who wore an A's cap and golf-ball sized gold earrings with an A's logo. "I just want to be here." 
"Doesn't 
every 
Pre-med 
deserve 
a choice?" 
Tom Garcia, M.D. (UAG '75) Cardiologist Houston, Texas 
"The right choice was there when I needed it. I made that choice, and now I'm a physician. My alma mater may be just right for you. It's your choice." 

Universidad Aut6noma de Guadalajara School of Medicine 
Guadalajara, Mexico 
The International Choice 
For your free video preview call: 1-800-531-5494 
"We're sticking it out, doesn't matter how late," Martha 
Johnston of Oakland said, an 
hour before the team arrived. 
"How many opportunities like 
this do you get? I'll call in sick 
if I have to, but I'll be here until 
they're here." 
At many sports clubs in the 
Oakland area, people cele­
brated, then quickly made way 
for fans of the San Francisco 
Giants, whose fourth game in 
the National League playoffs 
began an hour after the A's vic­
tory. 
The Giants also won, and on 
Monday they tried to beat the 
Chicago Cubs and win the Na­
tional League pennant, creating 
a Bay Bridge World Series. 
Some patrons at McGee's Bar 
and Grill in Alameda were less 
than thrilled Sunday night 
about the possiblility of a Bay 
Bridge World Series. Some A's 
fans worried that if the Giants 
won the Series, they would suf­
fer endless razzing from co­
workers or relatives who root 
for San Francisco. 
Alison Storar, 21, is an A's rooter, but her brother is a Giants fan. 
NO men's golf leads tourney 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame men's golf team is in first place in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Golf Championships after 36-holes of play Monday at the Weatherwax Municipal Golf Course in Middletown, Ohio. 
The Irish have 601 thus far in the 54-hole tournament, as they hold a healthy lead over second-place Xavier, who stands at 616 and Dayton and Marquette who are in third and fourth place with 627 and 630 points, respectively. 
Notre Dame is led by Mike O'Connell, whose 75 and 73 put him one stroke ahead of Xavier's Jeff Lancaster at 148. 
His teammate Pat Mohan, who had led the pack after the first round of play, dropped into third place with rounds of 7 4 and 76 for a two-round total of 150. 
Irish golfers Paul Nolte and Dave Regnier are tied for fourth with 152 going into today's final 18 holes of play. 


AP Photo Mark Grace of the Chicago Cubs and his fellow first baseman Will Clark of the San Francisco Giants were stalwarts on their squads during the National League pennant race decided Monday by the Giants 3-2 win. Both turned in record performances during the series as Grace hit .647 with one homer and eight RBI and Clark tallied two dingers and eight RBI to hit 650. 
Grace, Clark etch names in record book wielding big sticks ~n playoffs 
Associated Press 
SAN FHANCISCO -San Francisco's victory over Chicago for the National League pennant will become a line in the record book someday. The confrontation between Will Clark and Mark Grace may become legendary. 
For five games, it was like watching Lou Gehrig go after Mel Ott. 
For the record, Clark went 13-for-20 (.650) with two homers and eight RBis. Grace was 11-for-17 (.647) with one homer and eight HBis. 
Not a bad month for some. 
Just when it seemed Clark had reached ultimate human potential. he singled with the bases loaded and two outs in the eighth inning off Mitch Williams on Monday to give the Giants a 3-2 victory and the NL pennant. 
"We've all see supreme athletes in all sports rise to the occasion," Giants manager Roger Craig said of Clark, the series' MVP. "But you won't see what he did today. This was unreal. You've got one of the best left-banders in the game out there, bases loaded, in a tough situation, 0-2 count, and he gets a base hit." 
Clark set NL playoff records with 13 hits, eight runs and 24 total bases. 
"I don't really think about what Mark is doing," Clark said. "When he's up I know he's hot and a threat, but I don't worry about the numbers." 
There are a lot of numbers to fret about, too. Clark and Grace had slugging 
Impress 
people 


percentages that resemble zip codes to Mars, and they are becoming must reading in the playofr record book. 
Grace had 11 hits in 17 
playoff at-bats with three 
doubles, one triple and one 
homer for a 1.118 slugging 
percentage. He also had eight 
RBis in the series, second most 
in NL playoff history. 

Clark finished with a 1.200 slugging percentage. 
"I had a good series," Grace said. "But it wasn't enough. I'll trade the stats to be able to play in the World Series any day." 
Watching Clark and Grace, one gets the feeling the best is yet to come. 
"You're seeing the first basemen of the '90s," Giants manager Roger Craig said. "I can't imagine a better performance from two players than they have given." 
In Game 1 at Wrigley Field, Clark was 4-for-4 with two homers and six HBis. He hit a grand slam clear out of Wrigley Field in the fourth inning and never more looked the part of "The Natural." 
The slam climbed into the Chicago night as the crowd fell still. The cameras caught Clark's pretty swing and his trot down the first-base line. Only the exploding light tower was missing. 
"Yeah, that was something I'll remember," Clark said. "Winning it all is what really mattered though." 
Grace, not to be outdone, went 3-for-4 with two RBis in the opener. 
"I admire Will Clark and I try 
1989-1990 

OLD COLLEGE N!Ct1T6 
to be the kind of player he is," 
Grace said. "But I'm not a 
power hitter." 

Maybe not, but Grace sure 
looked like one in the playoffs. 
In the Cubs' 9-5 victory in 
Game 2, Grace went 3-for-4 
with four HBis. 

Clark and Grace each had two 
hits in Game 3, and kept it 
going Sunday night. 

Clark had two doubles, a single and scored twice and Grace had two RBis, including a triple. 
Clark's 13 hits in the series broke the record held by Terry Puhl, Ozzie Smith and Jeffrey Leonard. Of course, Grace surpassed them, too. 
The performances by Clark and Grace while outstanding, really aren't all that shocking. 
In three major-league seasons, Clark has a .304 average with 98 homers and 352 RBis. This season, he finished second to Tony Gwynn in batting with a .333 average. 
"I would have liked to win the batting title, but I'm here and Tony's not," Clark said. 
As a rookie for the Cubs last season, Grace hit .296 with seven home runs -all on the road. 
He led the Cubs with a .314 average this year and hit 13 homers with 79 RBis. 
Clark and Grace are also among the best defensive first basemen around. 
"It's been exciting to watch them go at it," Chicago manager Don Zimmer said. 

"Mark knows he's not where Will Clark is right now, though." 
Tilt OLD COLLtCt "Credle of lhe Univcraily" 
Ouill in 16~3 

'. mcnlhly l1me of 6hared hospilllhly. dil.cuu10n snd prayer welcomi115 colleae 
•'.oden\.6 and other& who are el\plori115 an mlere.o~l in pursuina a proceu of ;::,,;cem'il8 a vocation to mm16lry and relia1ous life in Holy CrO!I!l 
TUE6DAY. OCfOBEQ 10 
7:00PM 
"D16CEQNINC A VOCATION HOW TO MAKE A DECI610N" 
rr Nichol.. Ayo. e&:: '-lonl Drofcooor Program of Libcrel &die. 
\otre Dame .&uden!A are invited to each and all of lh= eveniny. [ach p~e&:nllllJon beam& al 7:00 pm and concludc:6 al 8{)() pm &hared prayer or :elebralion of the [uchan.!l will follow al 8:15 pm and all a;e welcome M well. 
Old Colleae i& located on the Notre Dome campllll facina &.. Mary Lake Immediately behind lhe Loa Chapel and Architecture ~mldina 
ror more informaUon; 

rr. John Conley. Cc!>C Holy+ rr. Paul Doyle. CK. IX>l\ ?41 Old Colleae
Cross;K
Notre Dame. IN Nolrc: Dame. IN
Priests&
(219) 239·638'5 (219) 239-6302
hers 
Tuesday, October 10, 1989 

Reuschel outpitches Cubs to help Giants 

them, pumping his fist and 
hugging everyone. 
"This is a highlight," said the 
champagne-drenched Reuschel,. 
who lost a game for the Giants 
in his only previous playoff 
appearance against St. Louis 
two years ago. 
"I had no idea it could feel 
this good. I think I deserve a 
little bit of celebration. It's 
been a long haul." 
Reuschel said that before the 
game he gave little thought to 
his Game 2 shellacking. 
"There was no problem (forgetting Game 2)." he said. "It was a piece of cake. I've done it so many times in my career." 
He also didn't think he 
pitched much differently this 
time, except for keeping the 
ball down a little more. 
But his teammates could 
sense a difference, even before 
he took the mound. 
"You could tell when Big Daddy's on," Giants slugger Kevin Mitchell said. "He was quiet in the clubhouse earlier. He always is. But you know he's there and he's going to be there spiritually. I knew he was going to throw a good game. Big Daddy was so calm out there." 
"He's been doing it all year, ever since we've had him (since 1987) and he can still do it," said Giants president AI Rosen. "Reuschel gives you great stuff all the time. 
"When they get to him, they get to him very early. If they don't get to him early, it's all over. He just knows how to pitch. He keeps coming at you with strikes, changing speeds, breaking balls. He knows all about it." 
The first jam Reuschel escaped was in the first inning, when he gave up two singles. But he struck out Andre Dawson to end the threat. 
The only run Reuschel gave up was an unearned one in the third, and a simple flip of the sunglasses by Mitchell might have prevented that. 
The early afternoon sun shone blindingly over the rim of baking Candlestick Park when Chicago's Jerome Walton popped up to shallow left in front of Mitchell. 

Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -Rick 
Reuschel, the burly Big Daddy 
of the San Francisco Giants, 
put an emphatic end to 
suggestions that his arm might 
be tired. 
The 40-year-old right-hander, 
clobbered by the Chicago Cubs 
in Game 2 of the NL playoffs, 
pitched like a master to win 
Game 5 Monday and give the 
Giants their first National 
League pennant since 1962. 
Pitching on three days' rest 
after giving up five runs on five 
hits in two-thirds of an inning, 
Reuschel held Chicago to seven 
hits and an unearned run 
through eight innings to win 3­
2. 
He also proved he can be 
counted on by the Giants when 
the Bay Bridge World Series 
begins Saturday at Oakland. 
"He had a big monkey to shed today, and he went out there and proved why he won over 200 games," Giants pitcher Mike Krukow said. "The pressure was on him ... and he absolutely dealt. He pitched out of jams all day long. It was a thing of beauty to watch the way he mixed speeds." 
Reuschel, a 6-foot-3, 240­pounder who sports a beefy belly, jowls and a small mustache, is a quiet, bookish leader. He rarely gets excited by victories and never worries about losses. 
He wasn't particularly upset about the Game 2 loss. As usual, he took the attitude that he went to work, did his job and couldn't be blamed because the ball didn't go where he wanted it or that the Chicago batters hit it. 
He also didn't worry about suggestions by writers and Giants manager Roger Craig that perhaps his arm was tired after going 17-8 during a season in which he also was the starter in the AJI-Star Game. 
Reuschel went to work against the Cubs with his usual bag of tricks -85 mph fastballs, slow fastballs. slower fastballs and breaking balls ­before leaving for the pinch­hitter who started the Giants' winning rally in the eighth. 
This time Reuschel abandoned his stoic pose and celebrated on the field with his teammates, shouting with 
ACCOUNTING SENIORS PLANNING TO TAKE THE MAY 1990 CPA EXAM 
AR~ INVITED TO ATTEND A MEETING TO DISCUSS 

THE NOTRE DAME CPA REVIEW PROGRAM INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
DETAILS AT MEETING OR CALL 
EXECUTIVE PROGRAMS 


Tuesday, October 10, 1989 The Observer 
page 19 

CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 
Tuesday 
7 p.m. International Students Workshop, "Job Search Techniques," Marilyn Bury, assistant director of Career and Placement Services, Career and Placement Services Library. 
7:30 p.m. Introduction to DART for faculty, advisors, chairs and deans. Presented by Daniel Winicur, dean of administration and Registrar. Cushing Auditorium. 
4:15p.m. Career and Family panel discussion sponsored by the Women's Resource Committee. Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Tuesday 
8 p.m. World Awareness Lecture Series, "Confucianism and Literature in Chinese Culture," Prof. Xian Gao, Chi­nese Academy of Social Sciences and Wenjuan Gu, Chinese Central Television. Notre Dame Room, LaFortune. 


56 Columnist Barrett 57 Dazzling display 58 Nine: Comb. form 59 -and downs 60 Jewish prayer 61 English river 
DOWN 
1 Faced the pitcher 2 Beached 
3 He wrote "A Sentimental Journey" 
4 Beautiful woman, to a Muslim 
5 Putrefies 
6 Cry of amused 
surprise 7 Greek letter 8 Dye obtained 
from a lichen 9 Employ again 
~gj!illjiJI10 A lager beer ....ffi~j _!! 11 Soft drink 
II! .:::+~:..j..:::..; :...::~-1=-1 12 -Vegas -..=:..+::::.-1-!-115 Honest­Lincoln 
1~llitj~!1Qjlill 17 Barbara Bush, 
~ --Pierce lliflli~tt 18 Paid notices 22 Flightless birds ...:....J.:=+=::.+,:,.t..~ 23 A target of E. Ness .=..J..:::.J.::::....a..:....~ 25 Ariz. river 

26 Bravo, in 36 What a galley 47-Pasha Barcelona slave wielded 
48 Belief 28 Exist 37 Sing to the fuzz 50 NYC. 29 Foster a felon 40 Puts on a play skyscraper's 
letters30 Fat farms 41 Australian lizard 

51 Can. province

31 Johnnie Ray hit: 42 Hood who ruled 1951 
crime in 52 
52 Vineyard, iCl32 Black cuckoo Across from Caen

1925 to 1931

33 Gainsay 53 Short flight 
43 Lofty

34 They loop the 54-du Diable Loop 44 Shuts down 
55 Gangster's 35 "Dies--" 46 Red or Coral hasty escape 
COMICS 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
YfS'.' IT'S ... STflf#ENJWS NAN.' F"RIEND OF 
FRt.t.OOM .' o?Pot'IE~T OF 
Oi'!'R£5510N! L0'4£R OF 
L\8ER\'( .' 
WILBUR AND WENDEL 
ACROSS 
1 Soho shindig 
5 Helicopter blade 10 "-Joey" 13 Concerning 14 Busy place at 52 
Across 15 Verdi opera 16 TV classic 19--Vedras, 
Portugal 20 Pelts 21 Kovacs or Pyle 22 Muslim rulers 241, to Ovid 27 North Sea 
feeder 28 Soap plant 29lndigo 30 Cleanse 
32 White poplar 
33 Roaring 
Twenties follower 37 Kind of race 38 Characteristic 39 Pests at picnics 40Vilify 42 Bad: Comb form 45 A son of Odin 46 Emporium 471n anyway 49 Of a region 51 City in NW Syria 
52 Site of Democrats' 1968 convention 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
GRtf..T tv\00\llS OF j\JI'ITER.' 'tl \'T\-1 '51\li'Et-lWJS ~WERe; 
O.l'>liN (STVPEN~U$ /!IAN'S <* Rt)..'::ONING., 11-\E <:APED 6· 'f£AI<·OLO ALT£1< EGO) HA'S C.O!I\Bfl.IA"-11 CO~Clll\l£S 11-IR££ Pto-GtS ($ BORING f'O N£ED FOR I-\CM£WC>R¥:.. IF 
JAY HOSLER 
• 




Friday, 13th 
Hll night mouie night Four of the SCAR I EST mouies you·11 euer see! 

QQQ~1kffl27 ~@@122 _. 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 


~ 
~ 
t 
I I I I I I I I 
I 
l 
-
-~-~ ~ ~ 
Sports 
Tuesday, October 1o, 1989
page 20 

Irish soccer programs have ups and downs over weekend 
Men's squad loses,  Women's team 7-6  
ties to fall to 5-5-2  after Miami shutout  
BY CHARLIE POLLARD  BY COLLEEN HENNESSEY  
Sports Writer  Sports Writer  
The Chieago Cubs were  not the only team of  The Notre Dame women's soeeer team  raised  
local interest to suffer on the West Coast this past weekend. The Notre Dame men's soccer team carne home from the· highly regarded Santa Clara Metropolitan Life Classic without a win. However. the trip did not produce entirely negative results. Friday night, the Irish tied California State/ Los Angeles 0-0 in overtime and controlled most of the play. On Sunday though, host Santa Clara University overpowered the Irish for a 4-0 victory. In the process, the Irish watched their record fall to .500 at 5-5-2. The Irish could have won Friday's game. They  its record to 7-6 this weekend by handily defeat­ing Miami of Ohio 3-0. The Irish, led by assistant eoach Neil Schmidt while head eoach Dennis Graee accompanied the men's team to California. took an early lead on two goals from sophomore Susie Zilvitis. Miami was unable to recover, and freshman Denise Chabot's first half goal added insurance to Notre Dame's shutout vietory. "We basically just dominated everything," said freshman Margaret .Jarc. "We kept control and everyone got to play."  
had the better scoring chances throughout the game. Their overall team defense was outstanding as well. The Irish managed nineteen shots on goal. their seeond highest output of the season, yet not one found the Cal. State net. Freshman Kevin Pendergast led the way with live shots on net. Towards the end of the game, especially in the two overtime periods, the high level of intensity led to numerous fouls on both sides. Five yellow  Finishing remains a problem as the Irish of­fense continues to struggle to convert shots into goals. "We didn't test their keeper at all," Jarc said. "We certainly could have scored a lot more," Notre Dame returns to Krause stadium tonight at 7:30 p.m.,this time as host to Tri­State, the lirst in a four game home-stand that includes IUSB, Alma and St. Mary's.  
card warnings were issued in the game to add to the 54 fouls whistled against the two teams.  The Observer I Brian Schwartz  "They're small colleges, but a lot of work has  

been put into women's soceer in the past fewSunday's opponent, Santa Clara, entered the The Notre Dame men's soccer team didn't fare as well as its female years, and they have strong programs," saidsee SOCCER 1page 16 counterparts this weekend as it lost one and tied another while playing Jarc.

in the Santa Clara Metropolitan Life Classic in Santa Clara, Calif. 
Four teams stay

Giants win NL pennant with 3-2 win over Cubs 
unbeaten in IH 
Associated Press 
football action 

SAN FRANCISCO-Thanks to 
BY DAVID DIETEMAN 

the ultimate Thrill from Will, 
Sports Writer

the thrills are just beginning 
for the San Francisco Giants 
The third Sunday of men'sand the Bay area. 
interhall football was a day

Clark's bases-loaded single 
that could have historical

with two outs in the eighth 
ramifications, as four teams

inning gave the Giants a 3-2 
remained undefeated, the

victory over the Chicago Cubs 
first playoff spot was

and the National League 
clinehed, and a stunning

pennant Monday, setting up a 
performance was turned in

Bay Bridge World Series 
by a marching band.

starting Saturday night at the In Parseghian League
Oakland Coliseum. 
action, powerhouse-in-the­

Clark, in one of the greatest making Graee triumphed in
postseason performances ever, the battle of the towers.
set an NL playoff record with 
blanking Flanner behind a

13 hits, a .650 batting average 
face-mashing. stingy

and 24 total bases and was 
defense. Quarterback Bob

voted the series' most valuable 
Allard turned in a storybookplayer. His single to center off 

performance, as did corner­

Cubs ace reliever Mitch 
back Jim Boylan andWilliams gave the Giants their 

linebacker Jeff Abbot.

lirst pennant since 1962, four "Happy to be winning."
games to one. 
Grace has managed to hold

"You saw one of the great 
its opponents scoreless inperformances ever," Giants their first three games, and

manager Hoger Craig said. 
at 3-0, shares the top spot in 

"But Will has done that all 
the Big Dorm division with
year." 
the Off-Campus Crime, also"I just try to hang in there," 

3-0.

said Clark. who fouled off two Off-Campus shattered thetough pitehes before his big hit. 
Dillon Big Hed (1-2) early,"I feel like I'm going to get a 

returning a first half punt

hit every time up. Just like for a 7-0 lead. However.
Hickey (llenderson) did for the Dillon tied the game beforeA's. Candy Maldonaldo, Brett Butler "I hated to see Will Clark up Series started in 1903, with 14 the half, and led 10-7"Mitch is a gamer. lie's come and Robby Thompson with two there," Cubs first baseman coming when the team played in midway through the secondin all year and gotten people outs in the eighth to load the Mark Grace said. "He buried us New York. The Giants last won half. Yet it was the Crimeout. I fought off a few tough bases. Clark, who had eight the whole series." a World Series in 1954 when who stole the show, re­pitches and finally got one I RBis in the series, then did It was yet another they swept Cleveland. 
covering a fumbled snap oncould handle." what has come to be expected. disappointing loss for the Cubs, It was the first time the the Dillon 30 and cashing itThe Cubs, though, fought "Don asked me how I was who have not won a World Giants have clinched a title of in for six more points,until the end. With two out in and I thought I could get Series since beating Detroit in any kind at Candlestick Park seriously dampening the Bigthe ninth inning, Giants reliever Thompson," Bielecki said. "I 1908 and have not even been to and sets up the first "Subway Red's playoff hopes. 

Steve Bedrosian gave up three just got tired, so that I pushed one since 1945. Series" since 1956 when the Meanwhile, in the Leahystraight singles and a run the ball up a bit. I think the key New York Yankees beat the 
League, Cavanaugh (3-0)

before retiring Hyne Sandberg to that inning was Candy "Don did a tremendous job Brooklyn Dodgers in seven continued its winning ways,on a grounder to second. Maldonado. I threw some good with this club," Craig said of games. 
clinching the first men'sCubs manager Don Zimmer, pitches on the corners but he his longtime friend. "They "My teammates were great interhall playoff spot with awho was second-guessed fouled them off." shouldn't be too disappointed. and so were the Bay area 7-0 victory over Alumni (1­several times in the series for They had a great year." fans," Clark said. 

1), in front of throngs of

not changing pitchers, tempted "The best team won, The Cubs had a 9-23 record fans and a marching violin.
fate -and Clark -once too Zimmer said, "and I hope they in spring training, and most The Bay area can now look On the second play fromoften. go on and win the Series." observers picked them for fifth forward to a confrontation 
scrimmage, as "Conquest"

Starter Mike Bielecki, who Clark scored eight runs and or sixth in the NL East. between former Olympians allowed only three hits in 7 2-3 finished with a 1.200 slugging It was the 16th NL pennant Clark and Mark McGwire at 
see INTERHALL I page 13

innings, walked pinch-hitter percentage. for the Giants since the World first base. 





