
VOL. XXII, NO. 127 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


Daley Congratulated 
Mayor Richard M. Daley, left, is congratulated by U.S. Sen. Alan Dixon after swearing-in ceremonies Monday. Seated between them are former Chicago Mayor Eugene Sawyer, left, and Judge Abraham Lincoln Marovitz, who administered the oath for Daley. 

Development of SDI to slack off 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The Bush administration will slow or cancel several futuristic weap­ons programs, including Star Wars and the stealth bomber, to build more of the arms already in the nation's arsenal, Defense Secretary Dick Cheney said Tuesday. 
To further cope with fiscal 1990 budget reductions man­dated by a new White House­congressional compromise, the Army, Navy and Air Force will reduce their active-duty strength of more than 2.1 mil­lion by 16,800 men and women, Cheney added. 
Appearing before the House. Armed Services Committee, Cheney ticked off a list of cut­backs. Many of the bigger deci­sions already had been dis­

. closed, including the fact that $10 billion had been shaved from the proposed defense budget in the compromise with Congress. 
The Pentagon's new budget authority, if Congress goes along with Cheney's bottom line, is $295.6 billion. Left intact is a proposed 3.6 percent pay hike for men and women in the military. 
Adm. William Crowe, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs, said he supported Cheney's cuts only because of "dismal realities-both political and eco­nomic." 
But Crowe said the moves were not justified by any changes in the threat posed by the Soviet Union or in Ameri­can commitments. 
Mahoney, Petrites win Red Smith scholarship 
By KELLEY TUTHILL nominates the student that they Senior Staff Reporter believe is the most skilled writer. All faculty members of 
Molly Mahoney and Cynthia the department then discuss Petrites are the 1989 recipients the nominees. of the Red Smith Writing Schol­The department must submit arship. the names to the Office of Fin­
The memorial scholarship ancial Aid as the scholarship honoring Notre Dame alumnus consists of a monetary award, and legendary sportswriter said Costello. Red Smith was established five The Office of Financial Aid years ago and is presented an­then considers the financial nually to a student who need of the nominees and demonstrates excellence in un­makes a decision, said Russo. dergraduate writing. Both Mahoney and Petrites 
This is the first time that two are juniors in the American students have won the award studies department. in one year, said Joseph Russo, Mahoney serves as a sports director of financial aid. He copy editor and sports writer said that the faculty in the at The Observer. She is from American studies department South Bend. nominates the students based Mahoney said that she would on their outstanding writing like to pursue a career in print ability. journalism. She said that she 
"The criteria for the award will probably start out sports is writing skill and academic writing, but eventually she achievement in writing," said would like to write on politics. Professor Donald Costello, The Red Smith Scholarship chairman of American studies. Award was "something that 
Costello said that each Amer­ican studies faculty member see AWARD I page 4 
CO·ED HOUSING 

Student leaders favor co-ed option 
By KELLEY TUTHILL The option of co-ed "I think that inertia is the 
and JOHN ZALLER housing has not been a biggest obstacle right now,'' 
Staff Reporters reality as of yet because the said Student Body Vice­
actual implementation is a PresidentDaveKinkopf. He, 

Editors note: This is the slow process, said Breslin. too, is in favor of the option 
second in a three part series He noted that the reports to of co-ed housing. He said 
on co-educational housing. the Board of Trustees have that living in co-residential 
Many students, including been made, students have housing in London was a 
Student Body President discussed the matter, but valuble experience. 
Matt Breslin, believe that that the actual process of Kinkopf said that their job 
undergraduates should have going co-ed hinders the prog­as student leaders is to be 
the option of co-ed housing ress. the "squeeky wheel." He 
at Notre Dame. Student support is neces­said that the process of going 
Breslin said that co-ed sary, and if a student feels co-ed may move slowly, but 
housing "should be made an strongly about the issue he that eventually it will get 
option at Notre Dame." He should talk to student gov­done. 
sees why people would not ernment, said Breslin. "We "When it is not clear what 
want their own dorm to go want to be very available to the effect on residential life 
co-ed, but that once it is students." will be... I can understand 
done, he feels that people "I think that it (co-ed their (the administration's) 
would become more com­housing) would bring a dif­caution," said Kinkopf. 
fortable with the idea. ferent type of spirit to the Senior Peter Gutrich was 
Breslin said that the dorms," said Breslin. He the Chairman of the Com­
alumni would probably be believes that co-ed housing mittee on Co-residentiality. 
taken by surprise at first. would better communica­The Committee consisted of 
"We have the best alumni in tion between men and wo­five female and five male 
the nation... they love men on campus. He sees im­students. The report that 
Notre Dame so much that proved relations and fewer they compiled was pre­
they would come to accept stereotypes as positive 
it (co-ed housing.)" aspects of co-ed housing. see CO-ED I page 4 


Earthquake shakes Mexico City and Acapulco 
Associated Press the seismically sensitive cen­
government spokesman Sept. 19, 1985, killing at least ter swayed widely and were Miguel Hernandez. 10,000 people and destroying
MEXICO City-A strong evacuated. "Even though the quake was· hundreds of buildings. That earthquake struck Mexico City "The quake produced a lot of intensively felt, everything is quake measured 8.1 on the and Acapulco on Tuesday, panic because of the recent normal and there are also Richter scale. cracking buildings and an (1985) experience," said reports of no major damage. "There's a real psychosisaqueduct, shattering glass and Mayor Manuel Solis. We did a survey by radio," said here about earthquakes since panicking thousands of people He said fallen cables and Hernandez by telephone. 1985," said Alejandro Maura, who remembered the killer short circuits caused power The U.S. national an office worker who, like quake of 1985. blackouts in many parts of the Earthquake Information Cen­hundreds of others, had not re­
One man was electrocuted city. He also said the Tlahuac ter in Golden, Colo., said the entered his building hours after when power cables fell on him, aqueduct, one of several bring­earthquake registered 6.8 on the tremor. and two women were seriously ing drinking water to this me­AP the Richter scale. The Francisco Guerra, advertis­injured when they jumped in tropolis of 19 million, cracked dents for maintaining epicenter was 40 miles east of ing director of the newspaperpanic from the second story of in several places and caused "serenity and coolness." He Acapulco, about 200 miles Novedades de Acapulco, said a swaying building during the some flooding. said their experience in the 1985 south of Mexico City, said seis­the quake caused brief power
8:26 a.m. (10:26 -a.m. EST) However, he said all services disaster had served them well. mologist John Minsch. failures and panic. quake, officials said. would be restored within three Tuesday's tremor shook the Mexico's Seismic Institute cal­
Police sent on inspection days. Pacific beach resorts of culated the quake at 7 on the "I've never felt a tremor so patrols throughout the city re­President Carlos Salinas de Acapulco and Zihuatanejo, but Richter scale. strong in the city and I've lived ported no collapsed buildings Gortari made a quick tour of there were no reports of death The tremor hit Mexico City here for 30 years. I thought the or other deaths or serious in­affected areas and, in a televi­or damage throughout the state at about the same time as the building would collapse," he juries, but many buildings in sion interview, praised resi-of Guerrero, according to state massive earthquake that hit on said. 
page 2 The Observer Wednesday, April 26, 1989 
WORLD BRIEFS 

The Afghan government said Tuesday that its forces killed 58 Moslem guerrillas mounting another attack on the eas­tern city of Jalalabad. Foreign Ministry spokesman Mohammed Nabi also said 250 guerrillas were killed in other fighting. His claims· could not be independently verified. The Soviet ambas­sador to Mghanistan, meanwhile, reported thousands of casualties by both sides in the seven-week siege on Jalalabad. Yuli Vorontsov also said the offensive appears to have been or­chestrated entirely by the Pakistani military, not by the govern­ment of Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto. · 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 

Shock TV host Morton Downey Jr. said Tuesday he was attacked by "skinheads" who cut his hair and marked him with swatiskas, but police said they couldn't verify his report. "What he's claiming doesn't appear to be the case at all," said. Ron Wilson, a spokesman at San Francisco International Airport where the incident was reported at 11:30 p.m. Monday. Aut­horities found no evidence of skinheads in the area, he said. Wilson said a witness reported seeing the talk show host in a restroom where the attack was said to have happened, but didn't see any confrontation. The witness said Downey was escorted to a waiting limousine by a man and woman with whom he was traveling. Downey was cleanly dressed when found in the limousine at the airport and showed no signs of being in a scuffle, said Wilson. Scissors and a marking pen were found in the restroom, but there were no physical signs of a fight, he said. In an interview with the San Francisco Examiner, Downey dis­played swastikas scrawled across his face, shirt and pants. His right eye was bloodshot and bruised, his head partially cut. 
A man who has served 21 years in a Florida prison for the poisoning deaths of his seven children was freed Tuesday as a judge overturned his conviction. The decision· came after an extraordinary appeal in which both defense attorney Ellis Rubin and special prosecutor Janet Reno agreed that James Richardson, a black man who was convicted by an all-white jury, had been railroaded. "Within !llY heart, I knew that these great men were going to get me out they weren't going to let me stay in there," the 53-year-old former migrant farm worker said. Richardson was convicted in 1968 of murdering his oldest child, an 8-year-old daughter, and sentenced to death. His sentence was later com­muted to life imprisonment. 
INDIANA BRIEFS 

A suspected natural gas explosion early Tuesday left an elderly woman critically injured, demolished the house she was in and damaged 11 others, authorities said. The 3:26a.m. blast was felt as far as five miles away from the Vincennes home. The blast carried debris half a block away from the demolished house and shattered windows and cracked walls in other nearby homes. Norma McMahan, 64, of Fort Wayne, was found in what was left of the garage, although it was not clear where she was at the time of the explosion, authorities said. Firefighters had to pry a three-truss section of the roof off of her. McMahan was in critical but stable condition Tuesday evening in the burn unit of Wishard Hospital in Indianapolis. 
Four people were injured Monday when a van went out of control on wet pavement south of Ellettsville and collided with a school bus. The accident occurred when the driver lost control. of the van on a hilly curve, crossed the center line and collided with the northbound bus. Four people were injured, including the driver of the van and three students, but none was was ad­mitted to the hospital. The remaining 17 students and their bus driver were not injured, police said. The bus sustained only minor damage to a bumper. 
WEATHER 
~()~ More mugginess 
,, ' 


Partly sunny and mild in the afternoon, highs in the middle 70s. Fair tonight, lows from 50 to 
55. Becoming mostly cloudy Thursday with a 40 percent chance of thunderstorms, highs in 
the lower 70s. 
ALMANAC 
On April 26: e In 1607: An expedition of English colonists, including Capt. John Smith, went ashore at Cape Henry, Va., to establish the first 
permanent English settlement in the New World. e In 1937: Planes from Nazi 
Germany readied the Basque town of Guernica during the Spanish Civil War. 
e In 1968: The U. S. exploded 
beneath the Nevada desert a 1-megaton nuclear device called "Boxcar." e In 1986: The worst nuclear accident in history occurred at the Chernobyl plant in the Soviet Union. At least 31 Soviets died as a direct re­
sult. e Ten Years Ago: President Jimmy Carter sent Congress his leg­islative blueprint for a windfall oil profits tax. 
MARKET UPDATE 


Mark +.0145 to 1.8667 OM/$ Yen +0.05 to 131.46¥/$ Pound +.0175 to 1.6990 $/£ 
Precious Metals 
Gold +$2.00 to $385.70 I oz. Silver+ 3.8¢ to $5.795 I oz. 
Source: Prudential Bache Securities 
Information compiled from Observer wires and Observer staff reports. 



ND is founded on a sense of community
We are ND. 
Good enough, except--who's the "We?" 
An incident which happened Monday on the Stepan basketball courts could cause you to wonder just who the "we" is meant to include. 
The details of the incident vary according to whom you're talking, but the gist is this: a melee erupted during a Bookstore basketball game between a team of Stanford freshmen and a team partially comprised of football players. 
The scuffle was unfortunate, regardless of its cause. More important than the incident itself, however, is the divisive sentiment it exposed. 
During a confrontation between a football player and a resident of Stanford not a part of the game, the football player allegedly yelled something to the effect that students would cheer football players during the fall but would side against them after the season was over. He continued by asking the Stanford resident what, if anything, the resident himself had ac­complished for Notre Dame. 
The less-than-subtle implication was that stu­dents were unappreciative of the football team's accomplishments if they did not approve of everything football players did. Fans were happy to cheer the team when it was winning the national championship for them but were quick to forget when the tables were turned. While no doubt these words were said during the heat of the moment, they nevertheless carried an unmistakable stigma: athletes are separate from other students. 
· Who then is the "we" in the "We are ND?" Athletes? Non-athletes? A mixture of both? 
Of course, the answer is that we are all ND. Athletes are ND. Non-athletes are ND. The fac­ulty is ND. The administration is ND. It does no more good to say one of these groups is not ND than to say stars but not stripes are part of the United States flag. 
Much of what makes Notre Dame such a unique place is its community. People come to South Bend from all over the country and the world because of the atmosphere and the envi­ronment here. There aren't many major uni­versities in the country which have such a close­ness among students. You can't find many places where many students gather together 

OF INTEREST 
Irish Guard will have an informational meeting on May 1 for all interested in trying out for the Guard next year in the fenced-in area on Green Field at 4 p.m. Questions call Craig at 283-4008. 
Yearbooks have arrived and will be distributed between Washington Hall and LaFortune from noon until4 p.m. today through Friday. Student ID's must be presented. 
An Tostal Road Wars participants should show up at the Angela Athletic Facility (SMC) at 5 p.m. on Thursday for both the 4 mile and the 12 mile bike races. Questions or entries call Darren or Eric at 283-3472. 
HPC executive coordinator applications may be picked up in the student government offices on the second floor of LaFortune and must be returned by May 3. 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monda~ through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the Univers1ty of Notre Dame and Saint Mar{s College. Subscriptions may be pur­chased for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
The Observer is a member of The Assoc1ated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved 

'Our campus is not comprised of two camps, athletes and students.' 
Dave Bruner Viewpoint Editor 

for late-night masses in individual residence halls. There aren't many that possess such a top-notch Campus Ministry program. And, there aren't many nationally prominent univer­sities that can boast of a president who lives in a dorm and likes to play basketball with stu­dents. 
Notre Dame is also unique among peer insti­tutions in that its athletes are considered a part of the general student body. An athlete could live across the hall, sit next to you in the dining hall or in the same classroom. The dorm I live in has several prominent football players who are friendly, well-liked and respected individ­uals. They are a part of the whole community. 
These things are what makes Monday's inci­dent so ugly. It damages the very spirit on which Notre Dame was founded--community. Incidents such as the one on the Stepan courts are not common, but need not happen. There's no need for students and athletes to quarrel over petty things like cheering or who does more for the community. 
When students yell, "We are ND'' at a football or basketball game they don't stop to think about what the word "community" means. It's understood that it includes everybody, students and athletes alike. They are proud that they are a part of Notre Dame. They are proud of the athletes who represent Notre Dame. 
Our campus is not comprised of two camps, athletes and students. It is a community of all. Dave Bruner is a junior govern­mentlphilosophy!P.P.E. major. He serves as Viewpoint Editor for The Observer. 
Seniors: let us know your plans for next year so we can include you in the summer issue of Notre Dame Magazine's Alumni Class Notes. Call or drop a note to the Senior Class Office, 215 LaFortune, 239-5136. 
Tickets for seniors Great America Trip on May 6 and the White Sox game on May 1 can be picked up this afternoon from 3-5:30 p.m. in the Senior Class Office. 
A CILA mass will be held at 6:15 in the Log Chapel and is required as this is the final meeting. 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest announces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lecture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submitted materi­als and determine if and where announcements will be published. -The Observer 
Design Editor.............................. Kathy Gliwa Design Assistant................... Cheever Griffin Typesetters ................................... Mike Kolar ................................................... Gilbert Gomez News Editor ................................ Sara Marley Copy Editor............................... laura Downs Sports Copy Editor............... Molly Mahoney VIewpoint Copy Editor ............. Mike Truppa VIewpoint layout...................... Laura Manzi Accent Editor......................... Colleen Cronin Accent Designer ........... Jane Diane Ricciardi Typists........................................ Rosi Lozada .........................................................Sue Barton NO Day Editor Jennifer Richards SMC Day Editor ........................................ Alissa Mwphy Ads Designer....................... Shannon Roach ..........................................................Jodi Topel ..................................................... Dan Stebbins Sports Wednesday Editor........ Frank Pastor Buslnesa Editor ......................... Tim O'Keefe Buslnesa Copy Editor ................. Mike Kolar Buslnesa layout .................... Janice O'leary 



The Observer I Paul Compton
Cranking the tunes 
Sound technician Tom Monroe checks the band's equipment during Youth in Asia's An Tostal Performence. 

HOUSES FOR REI,.
FOR '89-'90 SCHOOL YEAR 
*Super landlords ~inexpensive *5 and 6 bedrooms *safe *3 houses left *close to campus 
-CALL LAURA 289-8821 



HPC announces '89 budget 
By PETE LOFTUS Staff Reporter 
At Tuesday's meeting of the Hall President's Council, the budget for the 1989-90 school year was announced and two amendments to the student government consitution were unanimously passed. 
The HPC budget has been in­creased from $28,000 to $40,000 for next year. With the new budget, $24,000 will go to dorm improvements , and $8,000 will 
· go to special projects such as the Keenan Revue and Fisher Regatta. 
$4,500 goes to Weekend Wheels and the rest to miscel­laneous expenses of the coun­cil. 
A cutback eliminates an al­lotment of $500 per dorm for non-alcoholic events to encour­age more special projects that will benefit the whole campus. 
The first amendment passed moved the date on which the Student Union Board's execu­tive board and commissioners will take office from May 1 back to Aprill. The change was made in order to coincide with the start-up dates of various other student govern-ment positions. 
The second amendment replaced the Freshman Advi­sory Council with the Fresh­man Class Council, which will operate in conjunction with Student Government, the Of­fice of Student Activities, and the Freshman Year of Studies. 
The council will consist of a freshman from each dorm cho­sen by the hall's rector, presi­
dent,  and  previous  year's  
Freshman  Class  Council  
Representative.  

The purpose of the FCC will be to promote the welfare of freshman as they relate to the administration, faculty and community and to achieve the wants and needs of freshman. 
A second freshman organiza­tion called the Freshman Aca­demic Advisory Council will operate seperately from student government and be part of the Freshman Year of Studies. . 
Richard Daly of the Alumni Association announced that the Student-Alumni Relations Group (SARG), which promotes cooperation and ex­change between alumni and students, will meet Wednesday with the HPC. SARG is spon­soring a "Zero Year Reunion" at the Alumni Club where alumni will meet with graduate students and seniors. 
In other business, a petition was circulated in support of the pompon squad, which is being evaluated by an administrative committee to determine whe­ther it will be recognized as a club in the future. 

Student presented Lavelle award 
By CHAD KERLIN 
News Staff 
Theresa Harrington, a senior goverment major at Notre Dame has been named the recipient of the first Brother John Lavelle Award. 
The financial award was pre­sented to Harrington by Cyn­thia Simmons, president of the St. Joseph County Right to Life Committee at a ceremony Mon­day, according to Janet Smith, assistant professor in the Pro­gram of Liberal Studies and founder and faculty advisor to Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Right to Life. 
Smith said the fund was es­tablished when Lavelle died in 1987 and each year the interest will be presented as scholar-
Leaving school has neverbeen soeasy 
It's not surprising that so many students move with Ryder. 
We've got sturdy, dependable trucks in all sizes. Many ar~ automatics, with power steering, air conditioning, and FM on top of the AM. Plus, Ryder can help out with boxes, hand trucks, even moving tips. 
And we're easy on the wallet, tou 


CALL RYDER TRUCKS AT THESE LOCATIONS 
2715 N. Bendix 277-3550 US33N 272-1669 2306 Western Ave. 289-7515 2625 S. Main 232-6729 
ship money to a student who has been active in pro-life ac­tivities. 
A former bookkeeper and theatre manager for Warner Brothers Syndicate, Lavelle studied at St. Meinread's Sem­inary and received degrees from the University of Notre Dame and De Paul University. He joined the Holy Cross Brot­hers in 1948. 
At the time of his death on May 10, 1987, Lavelle was director of vocations for the Brothers and a Columba Hall staff member. 
In additioll to his service as chaplain of the Daughters of Isabella Circle 576, Lavelle per­formed widely recognized and admired ministry work among the poor of the region. 




=Rm~lf
SFAFOOD ~ICID ~ 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 219-259-9925 

"It's a real honor to get this 
award named after this excel­
lent man. He had a special af­
fection for the Right to Life Or­
ganization,'' said Harrington. 
Harrington has served as president for the past two years. 
She became involved in order to "gain an informed and ed­ucated opinion about a very serious issue. I wanted to be able to respond properly when my views were challenged-not just with stories and generalizations." 
"I am very proud to be pres­ident of the largest non­academic club at Notre Dame. We have about three hundred active members. Sure the club takes a lot of time, but it's all worth it," Harrington said. 
Next year, Harrington will either continue her education towards a masters degree in re­ligious education or she will work with the National Youth Pro-Life Coalition. 
She hopes that the Right to Life organization will remain effective in offering everybody the possibility of "an educated opinion" and encouraging people to take an active role in pro-life causes. 

STUDENTS SAVE 
10% 
AND LarS OF TIME­Let us pack and ship your belongings back home for the summer, or to wherever your new career leads you! 
NOTHING IS TOO lARGE OR TOO SMALL! 
==BilXESRLliS== 
SHIPPING + PACKING + CRATING 
MOVING & STORAGE BOXES I GIFT WRAPPING SERVICE PACKING MATERIALS I GIFT BOXES & BAGS MAILING TUBES I OFFICE SUPPLIES 
PLEASE PRESENT THIS COUPON AT THE nME OF 
• 
PURCHASE OR_ SHIPPING
1914 Miami 289-6721 1129 N. Bendix 288-0316 
M-F 9AM-7PM SAT 10AM-5:30PII.' 
SUN NOON-5:30PM

!VISA·!· 277-5555 
Between T.J. Maxx and Venture

RYDER. 
We're there at every tum.­
5818 GRAPE RD • INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA • MISHAWAKA 
page 4 The Observer Wednesday, April 26, 1989 
Supreme Court to hear new abortion dispute 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The Su­preme Court will hear argu­ments Wednesday in a Mis­souri abortion dispute that has become its most closely watched case of the 1980s. Court officials are bracing for "an extraordinary day" at the usually placid building on Capitol Hill. 
State officials and the Bush administration are urging the court to use the case to over­turn or substantially limit its 1973 decision that women have a constitutional right to abor­tion. 
· Even if the court rules on the Missouri abortion regulations narrowly, the decision will be viewed as a barometer of the current justices' commitment to the 16-year-old ruling in Roe vs. Wade. 
The justices are considered 

Award 
continued from page 1 
I've always heard about, but I never considered myself worthy," said Mahoney. "Red Smith was such a respected journalist. .. I'm delighted to win this award." 
Petrites is a writer for many campus publications including The Observer, Scholastic, Humanitas and Common Sense. She is from Houston. Presently she is an Editorial Intern at Notre Dame Maga­zine. 
Petrites said that she enjoys writing features the most. Her freshman year at Notre Dame she was an Accent copy editor and now she writes mostly fea­tures for The Observer. 
"In the future I hope to maybe work for a magazine," said Petrites. "My big goal is to be an overseas bureau chief." 
Petrites said that winning the Red Smith Scholarship Award never crossed her mind. "It's a great honor," said Petrites. 
SUMMER CAMP JOBS IN 
THE NORTHEAST 
For free list, ~e~~d self-addressed lUmped envelope to: Midwest Camp CoolllllaDll 1785 Red eo.t Drive Maryland Heiabts, MO. 63043 
Wednesday 
Come 
closely divided as to the wis­dom and continued vitality of the landmark decision. 
They will take their initial vote in the Missouri case Friday, discussing their views and beginning the process of drafting and redrafting opinions to accompany the an­nouncement of the court's deci­sion, expected by July. 
The Roe vs. Wade decision is based on the constitutional right to privacy. The court said a woman's decision to have an abortion during the first three months of pregnancy must be left to her and her doctor. 
The court said states may in­terfere in the abortion decision during the second trimester only to protect the woman's health, and may take steps to protect fetal life only in the third trimester when the fetus can survive outside the womb. 
State authority to regulate 



Co-ed 
continued from page 1 
sented to the Board of Trustee's Student Life Committee, which consists of 25 members, said Gutrich. 
"We were really happy with the response (from the Board of Trustee members)," said Gutrich. He said that he believed that the report changed some minds. Most of the discussion centered around friendship between the two sexes, not parietals and sex, said Gutrich. 
Two members of the student committee were transfers from Catholic schools with co­ed dorms, said Gutrich. Many Board members asked ques­tions of these students concern­ing residence life at their pre­vious institution and Notre Dame, said Gutrich. 
"When we left I had the 
feeling that a couple years 
down the road it (co-ed 
housing) was going to happen," 
said Gutrich. "I think that the 
overall effect of the report was 
good; it was very well accepted 
by the Board." 
Senior Resident Assistant Nancy Christensen said that floor by floor co-ed housing would work at Notre Dame. She 


Cross The Border 

Bring Your AnTostal Cup­Such a deal! 
FRIDAY LUNCH! FRIDAY LUNCH! 
abortions after the frrst trimester was not made abso­lute, however. 
A federal appeals court, relying on Roe vs. Wade, struck down as unconstitutional five key provisions of the Missouri law now under scrutiny: 
•A 
ban on the use of public hospitals or other facilities for performing abortions not nec­essary to save a woman's life. 

•A 
ban prohibiting any public employee from perform­ing or assisting an abortion. 

•A 
ban on using taxpayer money for "encouraging or counseling" women to have abortions. 

•A 
requirement that doctors determine whether a fetus rea­sonably believed to be older than 19 weeks is viable, capable of surviving outside the womb, by determining lung maturity and other testing. 


•A declaration that the "life 
believes that this would help students to socialize. 
TheRA's job would be more difficult, said Christensen. She said that what the administra­tion chose to do with the housing rules would be impor­tant. 
She said that girls in her dorm complain about not having male friends and she believes that living in co-ed dorms would alleviate that problem because people would see each other in the halls every day. Christensen said that living in co-ed dorms is a more realistic living situation. 
"Co-educational housing is just educational," said fresh­man Mike Musty. "I think having co-ed dorms helps members of the opposite sex develop true friendships deeper than the shallow sex­object views often seen on campus. 
"Most good friendships develop in the dorms," added Musty. 
Mary Donohue, a freshman, said that the Iceberg Debates changed her mind; she is now in favor of co-ed housing. 
"I think it eventually should happen." She believes that co­residential housing would en­hance the social life, but "I'm fine with the status quo," said Donohue. 
of each human begins at con­ception." 
In an attempt to sway the jus­tices, Americans in record numbers have been writing and telephoning the court to ex­press their views. Tens of thousands of letters arrive each day, and the court's two switchboards were so flooded with calls that a rarely used third board had to be activated. 
"Many people have indicated they've been asked to call by televangelists," court spokes­woman Toni House said. "These people believe we are conducting a public opinion survey. We are not." 
But court officials, reacting to the outpouring of public sentiment, will take unusual se­curity measures Wednesday. 
"I expect it will be an ex­traordinary day at the Su­preme Court," House said. 
Police lines will keep 
Freshman Roy Ketchum thinks it's time co-ed housing was implemented. "Having co­ed dorms can improve social and intellectual relationships between men and women at Notre Dame. It would give members of the opposite sex a chance to understand each other as people without the so­cial stress of the dating or party atmosphere." 
Ketchum has no problem with a lack of privacy due to co-ed housing, "If you need privacy, close your door and wear a robe when you go to the shower," said Ketchum. 
Junior Katie LeJeune was on Stanford's Iceberg Debate team. The team argued for co­ed housing, yet LeJeune is against the option. She said that because a dorm room is not self-sufficient, there in­evitably would be an interac­demonstrators off court prop­erty, but House said 50 mem­bers of a group calling itself Oppression Under Target have informed the court of their plan to engage in civil disobedience that could lead to their arrest. 
"Pro-choice" and "pro-life" activists plan to conduct com­peting news conferences out­side the court building. 
Inside the courtroom, House said, "We have no reason to believe the conduct of this oral argument will be any different, any less respectful than any other." 
Court police said they would allow people to begin lining up at midnight for the chance of seeing the hour-long argument session that begins at 10 a.m. EST. Police said they expect hundreds to be in line when the building opens at 9 a.m. 
tive living arrangement. 

"It is unnecessary to live with men that close, it is better left to marriage and living ar­rangements outside of col­lege," said LeJeune. 
If the University does choose to offer co-ed housing, LeJeune thinks the option should only be for juniors and seniors on a volunteer basis. She said that freshmen are not ready to han­dle this type of situation. 
"I wouldn't choose to live in a co-ed dorm; there is more unity among students in a single sex dorm," said LeJeune. 
Sophomore Pat Lanigan likes the dorms the way they are. "Having girls in the dorms goes against the whole idea of dorm life. Living with guys is the way to go because you can really get to know them," said Lanigan. 



SUMMER STORAGE 
$18.00 a month 
683~1959 
MASmlR MIJINli WAJm1H[0USlB .US 31 on State Line 








Business
Wednesday, April 26, 1989 page 5 

Recession predicted
FTC will be focus of symposium 
,I>Y <.~any (!conomists
By NATHAN FITZGERALD ranging from deceptive At 1:30 p.m., Stephen Calkins, 
Business Reporter advertising to the taxability of professor of law at Wayne State A~~lated ~ ··. . · · .. this year or early next year. advertising costs will be discussed · University, will present the Even those analysts who From April 30-May 2, Notre during the three-day conference. American Bar Association's blue are not predicting an out~ Dame will host a symposi4m at According to Wilke, there is ribbon special committee report right recession, defined as the Center for Continuing significant disagreement between on the ITC, the first systematic two consecutive quarters of Education on the future of the study of the commission since a negative growth, are lookingFederal Trade Commission, the similar ABA report 20 years ago. tpj.s to b~ extremely
nation's often controverisal top officials and experts in the Top marketing researchers, 
regulator of marketing and field over how large the business attorneys and consumer 
advertising practices. commissions ought to be and activists will be on hand to 
how active it ought to be. "Deep comment on the report. philosophical and practical The symposium, titled "The differences of opinion will come 
Federal Trade Commission in the up in the discussion," Wilke said. 
1990s," wil bring together several The discussions on Sunday, April 
current and former ITC officials, 30 will focus on advertising Public policy research will be 
scholars, antitrust experts, and regulation, with the session at 2:45 the focus of the symposium's 
advertising and consumer p.m. devoted solely to discus closing sessions on the morning 
specialists to appraise the of May 2. Wilke noted, "Notre 
commission's recent history and Dame is one of the leading 
offer suggestions for its direction departments in the country in the 
during the next decade. sion of current and future area of public policy. We're regulation of alcohol and interested in setting an agenda for cigarettes. During the morning the future of public policy." Professor William Wilke, one of sessions on Monday, May 1, 
the organizers of the symposium, current FTC commissiOner 
said, "we're bringing together top Andrew Strenio, Jr., former 
academics and top government commissioner Mary Gardiner 
officials; the issue is how should Jones, now of the Consumer The symposium is sponsored 
marketing activities be regulated Interest Research Institute, and by Notre Dame's Hesburgh 
by the government." Program in Public Service, the The trouble is that all the College of Business pickup in growth will result 
former commissiOn counsel Administration and the 
from an artificial calcula~ 
The commission, which William Baer, now of the legal Department of Marketing and by 
tion needed to close out the 
regulates most business in the firm Arnold and Porter, will lead the University of Michigan's on last
books summer's 
country, deals with many legal, discussions of the commission's Journal of Public Policy & 
social and economic issue. Topics turbulent history since 1968. Marketing. 


World Markets 
Budget fight expected this week 
Interest Rates Associated Press sional ·leaders forged in a sensitive about adding even Bond equivalent yields on thr~ Consumer price increases. budget summit pact two years more to this year's shortfall. month debt issues in Euromarket from a year earlier WASHINGTON-Fur is ex­ago. 
pected to fly this week in the "I hope I don't have to "This is a crucial vote for year's first budget vote on the engage in immolation on the Congress, as to whether it will [Britain floor of Congress, despite the floor of the House, but this is stand by the spending limits of 1/ bipartisan amity that so far has the last line in the sand," said the 1987 budget summit and 
12 

~·· marked lawmakers' deficit­Rep. Bill Frenzel of Minnesota, whether it will stand by the reduction efforts. ranking Republican on the agreement just arrived at," House Budget Committee. said House Budget Committee 
United States 
10 
~-~~--­

The House is scheduled to "This would be a stunning in~ Chairman Leon Panetta, D­'~ ~.....r ~"-<.>-<.>--'-~ vote today on a measure pro~ dictment of Congress for being Calif. 
UU...!u---­
viding $4.7 billion in new spend­willing to go back on its word." 
[west Germany 

West Germany/ ing this year for veterans as­It is common this late in the Frenzel and Panetta, who r1-::~~ ~/ .. sistance, anti-drug initiatives, fiscal year--which ends Sept. hope to trim the size of the bill, 
...-.-~~~~ 
~---'1H11 education loans and other pro­30--for Congress to provide will also be busy next week on
····························£··

-.!... / ~Japan/ ••• .__. ~ _,.? ~-~ grams. money for unforseen needs. fiscal 1990 matters. The House 
The legislation has run into Budget Committee plans to opposition from members of But with President Bush and complete its work on a $1.2 tril­both parties who say it would lawmakers having recently lion budget which the two law­add to an already embarrass­shaken hands on a deficit­makers hope will incorporate
Jan. ing fiscal1989 deficit of $163 bil­cutting pact for 199o that has $28 billion in savings ham­lion, and would trample spend­been criticized by some as lllered out in a n1onth of ing limits that former phony and inadequate, many negotiations with White House 
Source: Salomon Bros. Inc. 

President Reagan and congres-n1en1bers of Congress are officials. 
Where has the 'service' gone in the 'service economy'? 
it bought from foreigners. That comfy of expertise. Each assured me that, one belongs: on a nationwide striving for Tribune Media Services cushion has long since been lost, but of these days, such a someone might individual excellence. The result, in­there has scarcely been a renaissance actually be assigned to the job. Mean­evitably, will be fewer rewards for all. 
LOUIS RUKEYSER 

One of my three daughters, who un­of attention to the needs of the custom­while, of course, "It's not my job." We have never, to be sure, been a derstands that her father has never er. ~~A heating problem at one end of the society attuned to abject personal ~er­
fully achieved sober maturity, gave me Consider these recent random expe­house has been disdained by, among vice. Any European can tell you that, a marvelous present the other day: a riences: others, a plumber ("too busy right and gladly will. We are too egalitarian
toy robot. But this one, it turns out, is --A flight attendant on a soon-to-be­now"), an insulating company ("too by nature to make a profession of being a robot with a difference, a robot for merged airlne was unusually hustling small a job") and a jack~of-some-but­servile, and stories about over­1989. It doesn't always do what you tell and friendly, taking care of everybody apparently-not-all trades ("too hard to chummy waiters and bellmen circle the it to. in sight as if there were no greater joy get to"). globe faster than it takes to fill the 
When I'm through playing with the in her life. When I commended her, she None of these incidents is remarkable average order from room service. robot, I plan to set him up in business. told me sadly that her passengers the by the current standards of American But we Americans traditionally com­After all, he can refuse to answer tele­previous day had included several life. Virtually every family can recount pensated for our lack of impeccable,
phone calls, promise to show up but employees of the big trunk line that was tales of service people who promised old-world manners with smiles and never follow through, and fail to fix taking over her company. "You know to come but didn't, thereby wasting spontaneous warmth. The "service sta­things just as well as any flesh~and­what?" she said. "They were making your time (you had to be there, waiting tion" truly was that. The hotel maid blood goof-off in the yellow pages. He fun of me. one of them finally said, for them) and adding to the petty did not regard a "Do Not Disturb" sign may, in fact, be the perfect symbol of 'You're not going to have to work this frustrations of daily life. And bow often, as an invitation to pound on your door. the "service economy" that forgot hard any more."' when they did come, did they not really The artisan took genuine pride in his 
about service. --My home, in a rural area, gets cable know what they were doing? Or even work, not just his retirement plan. 
A generation ago, columnist Robert television, but with a foggy picture that feel a bit embarrassed about this Has it all vanished? Of course not. Ruark wrote that "nothing works and often appears to have been sent via the deficiency when it became apparent? There are still millions of Americans nobody cares." At the time, the United moons of Saturn. Over a period of Productivity and competitiveness whose toughest taskmaster is inside States got away with such neglect be­months, three different crews have are matters of inches--and human them, and who delight in happy cus­cause our manufacturing still been sent to investigate the problem. desire. A society preoccupied with what tomers and a job well done. But the dominated the world, and the country Each has concluded that the problem it considers its "entitlements" is not a trend is not good. It is a trend that each routinely exported far more goods than needed someone with a different kind society putting its emphasis where it of us, individually, can help reverse. 
---------~----­
~­





Viewpoint 
Wednesday, April 26, 1989
page 6 



H 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor ...• Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor ................. Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ....... Shannon Roach Sports Editor .................••.•. Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks Accent Editor ....••..........•.•....... John Blasi Systems Manager ............. Mark Derwent Photo Editor ............................ Eric Bailey OTS Olrector ................... Angela Bellanca Controller ............................ Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper publisned by the students of the Uni· versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor. Executive News Editor. Viewpoint Editor. Sports Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Commentanes. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space 1s available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 

Honors program benefits all students 
Shenanigans players, In these leagues, often just a table in the library should stay can, and 3. to attain the most 
By James A. Hogan 

thespians, Observer and little "je ne sais quoi" open or not. The librarian desirable and rewarding job Scholastic editors, R.A.'s, top separates the admittants from walks up and takes an "in-possible. 
How true it is that the Honors dorm and student government those who get one-pagers back tegrative" approach to solving Program student (HP) is in a officers and commissioners, in the mail. The Honors Pro-the problem. Placing ND grads into these "Catch-22." If the HP speaks Eucharistic ministers, fea-gram provides that inertia that schools lends prestige to Notre of status as an Honors Program tured Keenan Revuers, and propels ND students into these Dame and "does the school student, accusations of brag­varsity athlets (e.g., ice schools. To Mary Margaret's state­proud." Furthermore, top grad ging and elitism follow. If the hockey), to name just a few ac­ment of "position," "I want the schools lead to top jobs. When 
HP keeps silent about the mat­tivities. Those who claim money window open," the librarian you're interviewing with your ter, you've got people charging As you can tell, Honors Pro­spent on the Honors Program responds with a question about £1 choice firm, company, or that Honors Program students gram students definitely aren't is money that could go to better her "true interest," "Why do grad school, don't you find it are being secretive and must "nerds" and see the term use el~.ewhere haven't thought you want the window open?" comforting to have other Notre be hiding something. "nerd" for what it really is: a the matter through sufficient­Mary Margaret answers Dame graduates there? Of 
To charge as much is to make detestable degradation, dire ly. Let me explain this lack of with the "true interest," "I course, it can only help your the grievous error that Oliver discountenance, dastardly das­vision by way of analogy to want some fresh air." · chances and make you feel Cromwell and Richard Rich hing, despicable derogation, some principles of negotiation. Tom promptly claims his more at home if you're hired. 
made when putting Saint discrediting decree, demented One school of negotiations "position" that he needs the Note, too, that when students Thomas More to death, well diminution, dishonest disser­advocates a competitive, con­window closed. The librarian get excited-Stimulated about a recounted in T.S. Eliot's "Mur­vice, displeasing dismissal, frontational approach. The asks why Tom wants the win­subject, the vim invariably 
der in the Cathedral" and and disturbing distillation. "closed universe" attitude of dow closed and gets the an­spreads to teachers and other Robert Bolt's "A Man for All The fact is, no matter what this bellicose school views swer, "I can't have such a draft students who witness the en­Seasons.'' That is, Cromwell your definition of "cool," you'll negotiations as somewhat of a blowing on me!" thusiasm. and Rich equated silence with find HP's to match it because battlefield where one inch for­With a moment of thought the Furthermore, the commu­
solecism and culpability. the group is so diverse and be­ward for the gold army is one librarian has the answer, nity benefits in a way Some would like to see more cause HP's are diffused inch backward for the opposing "We'll open the window across analogous to its benefit from 
publicity for the Honors Pro­throughout campus life. blue army, or if you like, one the room and have fresh air for having graduate programs. A gram. Of what could these With such accessibility to more slice of pie for the red Mary Margaret but no draft on university has significant ad­people be thinking? Radio, Honors Program students, no (angry) epicurean means one Tom." I.n so doing the librarian vantages over a college in the T.V., posters, flyers, public one has an excuse for not fin­less for the competing green transcends the mere "posi­way of intellectual stimulation. ceremonies, newsletters, fan­ding out about the Honors Pro­(envious) gourmand. tions" of the students and ac­Sure Notre Dame could benefit fare for students' selection for gram if she or he really wants Thoughtful analysts criticize commodates their "true inter-from extending the Honors the program, colloquies by the to. this combative school for often ests." Program to include the Col­Honors Program students, Does the Honors Program es­failing to see the possibiities of Indeed, an "integrative" ap­leges of Engineering and Busi­soliloquies by the HP teachers, cape scrutiny? Compare: How concord and amicability that proach would work well here to ness. Notre Dame could benefit newspaper updates? As a dis­many people, would you think, always exist when people dis­point out that having an Honors from having its own medical interested law student, John cross-examine(d) the creation pute. Program accommodates the school as well. The more ad­Headley, puts it, "I think that'd and existence of Math 165 or In contrast to the competitive true interests of both the stu­vanced academics available at 
be in bad taste." the Honors math track of school, the "integrative" dents in the program and the an institution, the more pres­Do you know who's a Notre studies, separate but oft­school typically asks questions students not in the program. tigious it is. Dame Scholar and who's not? confused with the Honors Pro­to discover the "true interests" I believe the academic goals The Honors Programcan help The Honors Program has about gram? How many and who of a party, seeking to get of Notre Dame students are the Colleges of Business and as much publicity. should? beneath the mere "stated pos­threefold (in no particular or­Engineering as it has helped itions" of the parties. der): 1. to enhance and im­the Colleges of Science and
What do you know about prove the quality and prestige Arts &Letters and the Univer­F.I.S.H., the India Association, I came to ND as a freshman For example, Mary Mar­of the University, 2. to be intel­sity of Notre Dame in general. 
Eta Kappa Nu, the Handbell . in 1983 and was a member of garet and Tom argue over whe­lectually stimulated and James A. Hogan is a first-yearChoir, Pax Christi, Coach the first Honors Program ther a window just next to their achieve the best education they law student.
Holtz's team meetings, the So­class. This first class often took ciety of Women Engineers, part in discussions about the Freemasons, ICHTHUS, Right purpose and effectiveness of LETTERS to Life, Garners Exchange, or the program. Through these the Overseas Development discussions I became aware Network? that quite a number of deans Model OAS program separate from Model UN 
and academic officials, not to Maybe not a lot, but that mention students, were cross­Dear Editor: shared by the current director, ipate in the Model OAS pro­
doesn't mean these organiza­examining the program. The I would like to briefly com­Dr. Linda Lucas Hudgins, and gram, although as founder and tions are shrouded in secrecy. truth be known, many have ment on the April 19 article in the Model United Nations Club, president of Model UN, You could find out lots by doing asked, "Why have it?" the Accent section on the Model which I am currently running. strongly encourage students in­as much checking as any news­Organization of American The selection of team members terested in Latin American af­paper writer who's worth Largely, I believe, the pro­States trip to Washington D.C. and fundraising operations are fairs to take a look at our or­
as

his-her salt would do. gram strives to place more stu­There is a need to clear up handled jointly. ganization well. They are 
It should also be noted that both programs with a lot to of-
Really, if one does not know dents in the nation's top law some possible misconceptions about the Honors Program, one and medical schools. Histori­that an otherwise great article the program is strongly sup­fer the 1mernaLiunally-onented has not at all tried to inform cally Notre Dame graduates may have created. ported by the Kellogg Institute under grad. oneself about the Honors Pro­have fared pretty well in ad­The Model OAS program ex­and the College of Arts and Let­gram, Honors students live in missions to these post­isted before I began to partici­ters. Thank you again for your every dorm as well as off graduate schools. However, pate. The program was ini­Lastly, I want to make sure paper's great coverage of this campus, and are every bit as ND grads have not cracked the tially run solely by the Director people are aware that Model big event. 
much hoi polloi as the other ND top five law and medical of Latin American Studies (at OAS and Model United Nations Matt Crowley residents. schools with the consistency that time, Professor David are separate entities. People President HP's are and have been and in the numbers that one Ruccio). Currently, the duties outside Model United Nations Model United Nations cheerleaders, band members, would hope. for putting the trip together are are always welcome to partie-April 19, 1989 

.-------------------....------~------~­
Viewpoint 
page 7
Wednesday, April 26, 1989 



Faculty Senate should ponder changes 
---~ --~ -~ 


Editor's Note: The following are excerpts from remarks given by Robert L. Kerby to the Faculty Senate onApril13, 1989. 
A decade ago, the Senate and other representative faculty bodies--in particular, the AAUP chapter at Notre Dame-­influenced the evolution of Uni­versity policy in some modest but respectable fashion. Three year's ago, I returned (to the Senate), hoping that the Sen­ate's influence might have grown during the interim, or, at least, might not have diminished. I hoped, too, that the University's new adminis­tration might prove more amenable to a reasonable cul­tivation of academic democracy than the preceed­ing regime had. 
(But) if anything, the Senate's--and the faculty's-­corporate role in University governance has suffered measureable diminution through the last decade. 
To recite at length another detailed bill of particulars now seems both futile and redun­dant. Proposals sent to the Aca­demic Council have been ig­nored. A survey of faculty opinion concerning major changes in benefits has recently been dismissed as un­representative, even though the administrators who did the dismissing appear not to have surveyed faculty opinion in any more representative fashion themselves. Officers and admi­nistrators who appear before the Senate continue to speak of the administration as the "University," as if those fac­ulty not fortunate or ambitious enough to be ordained adminis­trators are peripheral ap­pendages to the "University." When officers do appear they only answer questions, but avoid or deflect forms of reciprocal dialogue which might imply a mutuality of in­terest, competence, commit­ment, or concern. 
The administration protests that its own informal but ener­getic deliberative processes are sufficiently representative to meet all objections. Such protestations remain less than convincing. 
No one denies that some ad­ministrators who serve on various University councils and committies are also mem­bers of the faculty. But admin­istrative appointments here are not accomplished by elec­tion: an administrator's fac­ulty status does not make an administrator a faculty repre­sentative. To suggest other­wise is facetious. 
No one denies--to para­phrase a portion of the Univer­sity President's remarks during his first appearance before the Faculty Senate-­that somebody has to make decisions. Indeed, American universities traditionally lodge much greater authority in ex­ecutive officers than do the older and more mellow univer­sities of Western Europe. What is at question now is whether decisions here are being made by administrators employing the best, brightest, and broadest advice available. During one spring sitting of the Senate, two administrators ap­peared to explain, among other things, the procedures used to gather faculty opinion about Notre Dame's pending new plan for faculty benefits. The procedures described reminded me of the old "County Court" system used to govern colonial Virginia: some commoners were allowed to partake in the superficial public rituals of democracy, but 12 or 15 providentially for­tunate First Family gentry, chosen only by their equally fortunate peers, always made all the decisions worth making. 
My own notion of democratic 

representation is a little more modern. It dates from March 4, 1861, when Abe Lincoln ex­plained the idea. The other president at that time, Jeffy Davis, did things the 18th Cen­tury way: he stuffed his cabinet full of "yes men" who agreed with him all the way to catastrophe. Abe chose the mighty men of his political age to advise him, including some who hated his eyeballs: but he chose them to be advisors, not pals. Year after year, I am hardly ever surprised that, no matter what I do in class, Abe always wins the Civil War. 
Last academic year, in a fit of whimsy, I volunteered four of five times to serve on various University committees and commissions and boards desig­nated to deal with sundry mat­ters about which I know something. (I chose to do so upon the friendly advice of an administrator, who assured me that Notre Dame's administra­tion preferred cozy, congenial, discreet, and suave "input" tendered in a family way.) So, I volunteered a lot. I figured an evident shortage of volunteers and my own certified willing­ness to suffer might, in part, counterbalance the fact that I can sometimes act like a flake. Each application was rejected. Most of the rejections were polite. This little game left me -wondering just how a faculty member's opinion gets to be ad­judged in an official component of truly representative faculty opinion around here. 
The Faculty Senate has three choices before it. 
First, it can continue to do what it has been doing. It can continue to play the game ac­cording to the rules laid down years ago by a certain former provost (whose name is now never uttered during a Senate session). It can survey up a storm. It can study things to 

death. It can juggle peer uni­versities' peeriness until entropy snuffs out the cosmos. It can meet, and measure, and county, and deliberate, and, now and again, birth an oc­casional molehill of a resoluton from this mountain of labor. Administrators will continue to dismiss the representative character of anything (Notre Dame's) Senate does, and con­tinue to file the Senate's studies and resolutions in various ad­ministrative black holes, and continue to amend unilaterally the former provost's ground rules howsoever it con­veniences them, (and) con­tinue to delude themselves about the infallibility of their ~own infused omniscience. The Senate, in its turn, may con­tinue to go to its betters to beg a crumb from the table of governance; and it may even come away, occasionally, with 
a pat on the head. 

I should be saddened to see this, any longer. For the cur­rent arrangement forestalls any pos.sibility that Notre Dame will ever evolve into a genuine university, a self­governed and self-defined com­munity of scholars committed not only to the Platonic ideal of academic liberalism, but to its Aristotelian and Thomistic reality. 
Second, the Senate can chuck it and quit. (The Senate) can adjourn sine die right now, and go down the road to Appomat­tox with the stragglers from the Congress of the Confederate States. The trouble is, this so­lution would make absolutely no difference--nobody really noticed the disappearance of the Confederacy's Congress, after four years during which its existence was also univer­sally ignored. The Senate's self-immolation would rate a small story onpage five of The Observer, and a one-sentence notation in next August's alumni m;:1gazine. Indeed, the administration's collective sigh of relief might elevate the Golden Dome even higher than it is, as the Senate abandoned one of the very few instruments the faculty has to advance the University's interests: the Sen­ate's collective power to annoy. 
Or, third, the Senate can just take a leaf from the Continental Congress, and just start governing. Just do it! The Con­tinental Congress's first task was to institutionalize itself as a governing body, no matter what Fred North and Fat George the Farmer thought about its upstart pretentious. If the Crown will not concede the efficacy and wisdom-and, for that matter, the utility--of genuine representative partic­ipation in affairs, then let the Colonials take matters into their own hands. 
(The Senate) can revive the movement toward faculty uni­onization inaugurated more than a decade ago. If the ad­ministration must insist upon acting as if it alone is the "University," and that faculty are mere employees, the fac­ulty may have to take the ad­ministration at its word, (and) force an equitable resolution of the dilemma. 
I am under no illusion that unionization may be achieved overnight. It took the Continen­tal Congress the better part of two years to fire (its) last King. The task demands education, study, examination, deliberat­ion, and organization. (But) the Senate exists to do just such things. Pursuing (its) man­dates would give the Senate some reason to continue exist­ing, and something significant to do with its existence. 

LETTERS 

Dear Editor: 
As graduate students here at Notre Dame we and our friends can only play sports on weekends or in the evenings in the JACC due to the nature of our research work. But more often than not, we are unable ''to do anything. It is not because of the lack of facilities--they are excellent. But the JACC is often 
closed for other purposes. 
Discounting the graduation ceremony, JPW, Ice Capades, varsity basketball games, etc., which go on for days, there are still countless numbers of ban­quets, shows, sales, and so on. 

DOONESBURY 
MAROA, I:¥!

PL&A5E YEAH. 
AFRAI/? I'VE

R/3CON-HAV& 
51/JeR •.. AHtAI{T, ~MY 
I?E09/0N.
I I<JI?! 



~~""' ~~ 

JACC should be open to serve students, not special events 
We cannot help asking the questions: What have the events to do with our sports ac­tivites? Why should the gyms, racquetball courts, and volley­ball courts be closed while the events actually only take a small part of the whole build­ing? 
We really think these kind of events should not interfere with the normal activities in the JACC. Now that summer vaca­tion is just around the corner, we start to feel horrified, not because of the ninety degree weather, but because, as is well known, the JACC will change 

its opening hours to normal campus working hours, i.e., when we are working. The rea­son: it is assumed students have gone home. The fact: most graduate students and faculty members will be on campus throughout the vaca­tion. People have been com­plaining about the lack of facilities for graduate stu­dents, but the real problem is that we are deprived of the very limited resources we do have. 
It is our sincere hope that the University will consider graduate students as students and take some action to make the limited existing facilities accessible to us when we have time to use them. 
Rouping Wang Kejian Liu April 20, 1989 
Have something to say? ~he Viewpoint page ~epends on ~ommentaries from its eaders. Write down your thoughts and send 
hem to Viewpoint, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
IA/HATr 
I'M SORRY... 
I HAV!3N'T
I 

'Familiarity is the root of
8l3eN MY5litF 

the closest friendships, as 
IA7UY. .. 

well as the intensest 
hatreds.'
\ 
Antoine Rivarol 




Accent
page 8 Wednesday, April 26, 1989 
An Easter pilgrimage to Rome 
R
MIKE KIPP DAVID WOODS joyed the magnificent wea­nificent liturgy in the most two of us were able to meet But that was not the end. ther, and attended a two-day magnificent of pla,::es. One of Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, Immediately afterwards we TOM D'ANDREA congress composed of stu­our fellow American pilgrims the Pope's right hand man. sang the Notre Dame fight dents from universities was even baptized and con­Since it would have been song with a three piece band TIM CONNORS around the world. We drank firmed by the Pope. Follow­somewhat selfish to speak as back-up. By verse two the accent writers our cappucino, spoke ing mass the Pope spoke with only for ourselves, we as­whole crowd had joined in: Spanglish to the members of our Yankee friend personally sured him of Notre Dame's subway alum unite! When we ome: center of the west­
the large group from Spain and congratulated him on be-moral support and prayers finished, Mike and Tom split ern world during anti­for his untiring and often out from the two ends. Mike quity. Rome: font of the thankless work. In his charac­tossed a wobbly pass to sure­West's political, social, cul­teristically gentle manner, he hands Tom, who was now tural, intellectual, and religi­thanked us and wished us a only a few feet from the ous heritage. To say that all very happy Easter. Pope. The music ended, the 
roads lead to Rome is not an On Easter Sunday after-crowd grew still, and our plan exaggeration: she is the mot­, noon, though, our moment in to greet John Paul II in per­her of our western heritage. the Mediterranean sun ar­son seemed about to be Even more important than rived. Along with four realized. secular heritage, however, is thousand other university stu­Handing the football to the 
Pope was our ticket to greet­the religious. Rome is the dents from across the globe 
center of the Roman Catholic we filed into the Pope's ing him, but we had been in-Church, the seat of St. Peter's private courtyard where our formed repeatedly that no one successor. So if we are going group, among only eleven save the emcee was to greetto visit Rome, let's do it in other small ensembles, had the Pope. Our plan had failed 
style: let's go on a been selected to perform for as Tom could not approachpilgrimage! the Holy Father. the Pope. He handed the foot­When Holy Week arrived on After the first two acts our ball to the emcee, when sud­
the March calendar, the four turn finally came. Dressed denly the luck of the Irish 
of us decided that it would be and ready, complete with came through: one of the the ideal time to go a­Notre Dame baseball caps, Pope's attendants seized the pilgrimaging. With thousands we approached the microp­football and directed us to the of others we attended Palm hone and stood not more than Pope. One by one we greetedSunday services in St. Peter's touring with us, and armed coming a Catholic. fiteen yards from the Pope. him and conveyed a personal square. One of our company, with our Italian phrase books, Our group waited for this Armed with a National Cham­message to him. Tim Connors, had the good fearlessly plunged into fellow out in St. Peter's pionship football signed by And so, to make a longfortune to be among a select Rome's inner streets. square, and when he arrived Coach Holtz, we placed our story longer, it was an unsur­few to receive Holy Com­On Easter eve we pushed we hoisted him on our caps to our hearts; Dave in­passable pilgrimage, and munion from the Holy Father. our way into St. Peter's shoulders and into the air and toned the first several notes greeting Christ's primary But the luck of the Irish had basilica and attended Easter sang a round of "For he's a and, unaccompanied, we sang representative on earth was just begun. Vigil Mass celebrated by jolly good fellow.'' For a min-the Notre Dame alma mater. the capstone. Many thanks to 
The rest of the week we Pope John Paul II. It lasted ute or so the Yankees stole The Pope, greatly devoted to Coach Holtz, the football toured our tours, saw the from 9:00p.m. to roughly the show. the Blessed Mother, listened team, and the luck of the sights, wrote postcards, en-1:00 a.m.--a most mag-Immediately after mass intently. Irish. 
To build an empire: entrepreneur under the Dome 
CHRISTINE MCCANN the hard work, the respect, bad, but it had lots of poten­make sure everyone knows it. in the morning. The fact that the giving to others." tial," Highbarger remembers. Once again, it is not ar­UPD will deliver so late is a In 1984, Highbarger entered After seven months of · rogance that shines through plus for students, since so 
accent writer 

M 
Notre Dame. His first semes­remodeling, which included in Highbarger's attitude, but many other South Bend piz­ter was remarkably easy installing new flooring, wall a sense of confidence, confi­zerias stop delivery at one or att Highbarger, Notre academically, but he was dis­partitions, ceilings, and com­dence that he will get what he two in the morning. Also, Dame Class of '89, sits appointed with the social and pletely refurbishing the wants. prices are structured to be back in his chair and relaxes community scenes: "I felt kitchen, UPD opened for busi­Matt presently employs six cheaper than Domino's, and for the moment, obviously like I wasn't getting anything ness. He attributes his early­people, half of whom are stu­UPD uses forty percent more confident in the face of his done." In order to fill some of on success to a number of dents. The other half, mem-cheese and a thicker crust. own accomplishments. Confi­his spare time, he took a job 
~----------------------..... "When I started, I was not adent he should be; although at Musicland second semes­still a student at Notre Dame, ter, and resumed the disk he is presently the sole jockey position he had taken proprietor of University Pizza in high school. Delivery, located half a block west of Ironwood on South That summer, he returned Bend A venue. to Iowa to work in the distri­
A native of Ames, Iowa, bution agency again, and by Highbarger has led an inter­the start of his sophomore esting life; much of his expe­year, he was delivering USA rience has brought him to his Today on the Notre Dame present position. He has held campus. Since then, things a variety of jobs, beginning have moved quickly. He is 
when he was seven years old presently the N.D. distributor and delivered newspapers. At for USA Today, The Chicago the age of fourteen, he landed Tribune, and the Wall Street a job in a newspaper distribu­Journal. tion agency, and by the time he was a senior in· high Now in his fifth year, school, he was basically run­Highbarger is currently ning the office. working with his biggest proj­factors: his ability to remodel hers of the South Bend com­improvements, possibly in­
When questioned about his ect yet: University Pizza the property himself, low munity, must hold things cluding indoor seating, sand­initiative, he acknowledges it, Delivery. While living in overhead costs and rent, and together during breaks and wiches, and beer. but does not look upon it as Ames, he noticed that al­the fact that most of his finals when the students can't For now though, Matt is any spectacular feat. though the town has a popula­equipment, though in perfect work. There is no task that pleased. Touring his es­"There's always been a self­tion of only approximately working order, was pur­Highbarger himself does not tablishment with him, one dependency thing," he said. 50,000, half of whom are col­chased used. handle. From repair work to cannot help but notice his "There was a time, in my lege students, over thirty-five Highbarger has taken great bookkeeping to dish washing, proud grin as he gazes over younger years, when I really pizza parlors competed for care with his project. Even a he is in with the rest, working what are literally the fruits of learned the value of money." business. Realizing that· South cursory inspection of the hard but having fun. Laugh­his labor. "I want to be the 
More than anyone else, Bend could benefit from a store assures one of the im­ing, he says, "Really, if best," he says quietly. "We're Highbarger credits his mot­similar situation, he set out to pressive cleanliness of UPD. you're going to work, you going to be ... and it's not her for his inspiration and make things happen. In Octo­In its first year of operation, might as well have a hell of a very far away." Watching his guidance. He proudly speaks ber of 1987, using savings in fact, it received a perfect lot of fun doing it." face, and the determination of the time she kept the fam­from his other jobs, he dis­score from the health depart­His hard work has paid off, that seems to have perma­ily together and food on the covered a building behind ment, something that and results are beginning to nently settled there, there table following the death of Highbarger had been told was show. Delivery is free, and doesn't seem to be much his father when Matt was six. Campus View Apartments extremely rare. Since then, averages less than thirty room for doubt. Matt "She was the one that m­available for lease. "The rent he has maintained his high minutes except at the busiest Highbarger is on his way, and stilled all the values in me: was good, the building was standards and is quick to time, between two and three he is running. 


Women 
continued from page 16 
Hahn and Three Other Girls 
Easy To Score Upon, 21-11. 
Judy Hutchinson ripped down 

an astounding 23 rebounds for 
the losers, but Julie Bernhardt 
tallied nine points and pulled 
down eight rebounds to lift The 
Worthless Towers to victory. 
Four Dunks and One Dink 

slammed The Notre Dame 
Ratio: Five Girls to One Ball 
21-4 behind Julie Sullivan's 10 
points. 
Four Dunks now prepares to 

take on Two Words Thursday 
QUALITY WATER 
SAVEto40% 
llrillill ....hrtficlllll -IliST IIUIIVAI. WATB SIII'Ta.& I 
WATB~T-

Three Girls Who've Scored did not have to prove it Tues­day, as they won by forfeit over Bye to advance. 
Tourney favorites, Sparky's Franchise II, will be in action again today against We've Never Been Scored Upon, hoping to earn a chance to reach the Sweet Sixteen. 
And two other top teams will clash today as well, as Four Freshman With Lipps, chosen among the top four teams in the tourament, will take on a surprising Secret Service team who have crushed all comers thus far. 
I L -­
. 
. 
-
. 
WATERBEDS•MATTRESSES SHEETS • ACCESSORIES • MORE 

The Observer page 9 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Off-campus lacrosseplays Thursday, April 27, at 8 p.m. on Cartier Field against Alumni. Call Bill at 287-5758 for more infor­mation. -The Observer 
Boxing Club members who picked up tapes during the banquet should check to see if they received two of the same tape. Call Mike at x3386 for more information. -The Observer 
Boxing Club sweats will be sold to all boxers at the varsity issue room of the Joyce ACC from 1 to 2 p.m. on Friday, April 
28. -The Observer 

The Rowing Clubwillholdamandatory meeting on Wednesday, April 26, at 7 :30 
p.m. in Nieuwland, room 118. Money will be collected for Madison and the awards ban­quet. -The Observer 
An Tostal Road War begins at 5 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility for both the four-mile and 12-mile bike races. Call Darren or Eric at x3472 for more information. -The 
Observer 


Holtz 
continued from page 16 
Every starter on the line with the exception of Heck, a first­round selection of the Seattle Seahawks, will return in the fall. 
"I think our line's going to be a good one," said Holtz. "We have more movement off the line and are physical. The of­fensive line's made good prog­ress." 
Holtz also has liked the way many of the Irish underclas­smen have emerged as leaders, citing defensive back Todd Lyght as an example, and is encouraged by the intensity he saw in spring practices. 
"I don't think there's a single football player looking back at last year," said Holtz. "The first spring practice, we came out in shorts and ended up in a full-scale scrimmage." 
Linebacker Ned Bolcar, a fifth-year senior this fall, em­phasized the fact that one na­tional title has not changed the players' ambitions. 
"This team's not com­

placent, there's not a doubt in 
my mind," said the Irish tri­
captain. "All you had to do is 
see the first practice without 
pads. This is the start of next 
year, and our object is to be a 
better team . 
"Every year, even three years ago when we lost six games, our goal was to win the national championship." 
The Irish will have one more game than usual on its regular season schedule, and will have to play Michigan, Penn State and Miami all on the road. But it's been a long time since Notre Dame's pre-season prospects of a national title looked this good. 
tAMERICAN CANCER SOCIE1Y~ 


And FULLY FURNISHED EXECUTIVE SUITES 
ELEGANT & SPACIOUS 1 , 2 and 3 bedroom apartments 
Beautifully set on the St. Joseph River 5 minutes from Notre Dame Campus 

1671 Riverside Dr. @ CALL 233-2212 ~ 

~~70%oFF 
.11/E..Aftl.. 
MEN'S & LADIES' ACID WASHED & GLACIER WASHED 
BUGLE BOY & BON 


S11ss 
2,0RS2QB9 
GENERA 
MINISKIRTS 

ssss 

s2gas 

COM:?=~~ 524950ISCOUNTS 
STEREO& Classic CAR STEREO Stereo 
RADAR

JENSEN· PIONEER· ALPINE ~~tn 
YAMAHA· PHASEL/NEAR 4< u~ DETECTOR 
IPR-100

DENON • SANSUI • CRAIG r:;P nrr 
UN/DEN· COBRA • MORE Urr S49&5 ~XAMPLE$ OF INCREDIBLE SAVINGS CAR ALAR­ANSWERING ALPINE PIOHEEER 
-sgg 
MACHIHIS :~ ~~~Tr MICROWAVE REVERSE CAR SPEAKERS OVENS 
S29 S199 ·S39,PR. S49 
MEN'S & WOMEN"S 

·MICROWAVE
ovENS· 





S48.·.
-
;r-985.• 
...,. :-­
REGENCY
• 
~,.,,.,,....._. 
... .....
~ 
REFRIGERATORS • MICROWAVES TVs • VCRs • MUCH MORE 
SAVE~~ s1000 
RCA • QUAISAR • MAGIC CHEF 

BEDDING 1 LIQUIDATORS.! 

MATTRE~ES ~~ 
DAYBEDS 

S28




s&& II 
FROM PINE $59 
BED $19 BUNK BEDS 
HEADBOARDS 
.. 'PA1'10 
dC10SIMES 
BESTPRICES 
.. OF THE YEAR! 
Webber Portable GASGRIUS. 
.,.,,jftf 
l:t'EN':::OMEN'S ·CHILDREN'S 
~$ BS 
9 Wesr • Calico • Fwrshiem Bellini • Fan Fares • Freeman Nunn Bush • Georgio Brutini Buster Brown • Nickelodkln 
WOIIEltS . SUMMER 

$5.. 
SNAKESKIN SHOES­
Alts99 
llDI&-1 . . .-... ~lil!lllfl .. i 
...., 
IIIKE • REEBDK • AVIA 
REEBOK~ROM$1995 

~lORa-, 
11=1'~~.::::... 
SHUMANN FACTORY AUTHOmZEO SALE , OF CONSOLE AND GRAND PIANOS NEW CONSOLE SEVERAL MODELS AVAILABLE PIANOS LIMITED QUANTmES 
Slightly Damaged 
GRAND PIANOS



S1.550 ·~~ 

S49QQ__ 
ft$ MUCHMO 
Sic ·BEST PRICES OF-THE YEAR! 
LEATHERJACKETS 
..~--648 
LEAnER PAHTU LEAnER SKIRTS 
"'90 
S39 
MICHIIOIIE 
298 
2-Motor Upright 
New Electrolux Complete 
With ALL Atlachments 
VACUUMS ~., 
·='199 
CEifTRAL _rr....,.
r~lf: s44~ 
U10' 
S39 
~!:ivTEHTS MUCH MORE 
1~..:,: S27 
3-PC~: 8488 
4-J'C,INCUN&R 
-=:~sass 

The Observer Wednesday, April 26, 1989
page 10 



Bookstore down to Sweet Sixteen; tournament play continues today 
Tuesday's Results Seedlngs In Parenthesis Stepan 1 

4:00 -Redan, Shy, & 3 Other ... (9) over One Jerk Too Many by 9 
4:45 -Khomeni's Bounty Hunters (11) over As Salaam Alaikum by 14 
5:30 -Bennitt's Buffett White (10) over Unseeded Fertilizers by 12 6:15-Rubber Cement (12) over Touch-n-Go by 5 
Stepan 2 

4:00 -Murphy's Bar (3) over Nice but Nasty by 7 
4:45 -Fugitive Guys Finale (6) over Train & the fuzz-busters by 10 
5:30 -Killer Bees (8) over All the President's Men Ill by 10 
6:15 -Minahoonies (5) over Eddie & the Cruisers by 2 
Stepan 5 

4:00 -Lenny's American Grill (13) over Clockwork Orange by 2 
4:45 -Malicious Prostitution (2) over The Cotton Club by 7 
5:30 -Coach's (4) over Swish Kabob by 4 
6:15-The Good, The Bad & the Laundry (16) over Gauchos by 5 
Stepan 6 4:00-The Mephistophelian Meatuses over Murphy's Men by 2 
4:45 -Adwork's Allstars (1) over 4 Men & a Red­headed Stepchild by 14 
5:30 -No I in Team (7) over Jerry's Kids by 5 6:15-Air Check & Ground Support (15) over MBA's by 3 
Stepan 3 6:15-Corporate Raiders (14) over Mephistophelian Meatuses by 1 0 
Wednesday's Games 
Bookstore 9 4:15-Killer Bees (8) vs. Redan, Sky, & 3 other guy who can fly (9) 5:00-Adworks (1) vs. The good, the bad, and th< laundry (16) 
5:45 -No I Team (7) vs. Bennitt's Buffet... (10) 6:30-Malicious Prostitution (2) vs. Air Chek & ground support (15) 
Bookstore 10 4:15-Minahoonies (5) vs. Rubber Cement (12) 5:00-Coach's (4) vs. Lenny's American Grill (13) 5:45-Murphy's Bar (3) vs. Corporate Raiders (14) 6:30-Fugitive Guy's Finale (6) vs. Khomeni's Bounty Hunters (11) 


AP: Seton Hall's Carlesimo to be next Kentucky coach 
Associated Press 

LEXINGTON--P.J. Car­lesimo, head coach at NCAA runner-up Seton Hall, will be the new head basketball coach at Kentucky, The Associated Press has learned. 
Two sources told The AP late Tuesday night that Carlesimo would accept the position. 
The sources told The AP that Carlesimo wanted to talk with Seton Hall officials, specifi­cally those who supported him during attempts to oust him two seasons ago, before making the official announce­ment. 
Carlesimo, in Lexington after his interview Tuesday with the school's screening committee and UK athletic director C.M. Newton, could not be reached for comment Tuesday night. A person who answered the phone at his Lex­ington hotel room said he was resting. 
"Kentucky has a new coac­h," one source said. 
The sources said they ex­pected the announcement to be made Wednesday. 


Dolphins choose IU's Stoyanovich 
Associated Press 

Pete Stoyanovich, who gave up soccer to concentrate on football and never missed an extra-point kick in his college career, had to wait eight rounds and more than 200 se­lections before he was taken in the 1989 NFL draft. 
The Indiana University placekicker eventually went to Miami, which promises a much different climate from the cold, northern weather he's accus­tomed to, but he's not com­plaining. 
"I'm happy, I'm real hap­py," Stoyanovich said after being drafted by the Dolphins. "I couldn't have asked for a better team or a better place to go. 
"I'm from Michigan, and I've played in Bloomington," said Stoyanovich, whose eighth-round selection on Mon­day made him the 203rd player taken in this year's draft. "So I've kicked in cold weather all my life. I was hoping I'd get a chance to kick somewhere warm." 
He fashioned an accurate, ef­ficient career with Bill Mal­lory's Hoosiers, converting all 123 of his extra points and 47 of 73 field goals. The 6-0, 180­pounder from Dearborn Hills, Mich., hit 10 of 16 field goals as a freshman, 11 of 18 as a soph­omore, 9 of 15 as a junior and 17 of 24 a year ago when In­diana went 8-3-1 and carved up South Carolina, 34-10, in the Li­berty Bowl. 
It was on those stats that 
Stoyanovich, who did double 
duty with the IU soccer team 
his first three years, built his 
professional hopes. 

"I couldn't believe I didn't go 
(during Sunday's first five 
rounds)," Stoyanovich said, 
"but I guess my patience paid 
off. Believe me, I'd much 
rather go to Miami than Green 
Bay. And that's not meant as 
a knock on the Packer organi­
zation." 

The Observer accepts class1f1eds every bus1ness day from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m at the Notre Dame olf1ce. 314 LaFortune. and from 12·30 until3 p m at the Samt Mary's off•ce. Haggar College Center Deadl1ne for next-day classifieds IS 3 p m All class1f1eds must



Classifieds 
be prepaid The charge 1s 10 cents per f1ve characters per day 
Turtle Creek Townhouse available fo Join the MARY KAY WALLER date of Vote MICHAEL KIRKWOOD for Ugly $$$ GRAD TIX WANTED $$$ CHRISTOPHER MARQUARTS IS 22! summer.Price negoctiable 272-9298 the day club. Membership Includes Man on Campus '89 You'll be glad you Call Michelle at 3196 HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO THENOTICES mass outings to Senior Bar, wtth op­
"DRUNKIN' PUNKIN' "! Moving to NYC? tional rides home to a veritable bevy DANEKA 
did! 
TYPING AVAILABLE Lg 1 bdrm. apt. for rent Aug. 1. Good of new and exciting beds. Summer Campers--You have not been

287-4082 The reign of the Meatuses is not of this
midtown toe. AoC, DNI & lg closets. Per­forgotten--just misplaced!!!!!!!! 2 more world ... 
fect for share. Call Betsy or Jackie. (212) LIZ AND CANDY CANNOT BE weeks of sunbathing left--How happy for 582-4250. 
STOPPED! OUR JUGGERNAUT IS SE­us!!!!!!
NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for STUDENTS!STUDENTS!STUDENTS!
CURE SO BEWARE! LONG LIVE THE AN TOSTAL T-SHIRTS!! AN TOSTAL
CASH!I Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash COLLEGE ID NIGHT TONIGHT! WED.
For serious students rooms with house SWEENEY StSTERSt!lll! Congratulations T-SHIR'fS!! PW Is selling t-shlrts todayor Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK APRIL 26TH 7:00 PM $1 $1 $1 $1 $1
privileges. Fully furnished. Nice neigh­CHRIS KMETZ & LAURA LUCIA and THURSDAY at lunch & dinner tn
808 Howard St. just off of N.D. $1 $1 SB WHITE SOX VS. WATERLOO
borhood 2 miles from ND. Summer or SIMON original soundtrack recordings On Your ENGAGEMENT! NOH Shirts are ONLY $8.00 
Ave.(watking distance from campus) ph. DIAMONDS BRING VALID COLLEGE ID
fall. Call AI 5378 or 234-1 021. are now available at the SUB office, 2nd 
233-2342 AND COME SEE SOX PLAY FOR $1.
floor LaFortune for $7 each, or call Rob
································································ GAME TIME 7:00 PM
Meffe at # 3660 PATTY MICHAUD'S BIRTHDAY IS AP­
Wordprocesslng-Typing 

PROACHING!!!! (and I am putting this AN TOSTAL AN TOSTAL272-8827 COLLEGE ID NIGHT!COLLEGE IDpersonal in for her even thoug she is
WANTEo=] 

NIGHT! TONIGHT! APRIL 26TH 7:00PM 
ignoring me lately ... ) IMPERSONATIONS AND COMEDY 
STANLEY COVELESKI REGIONAL
NEW YORK NEW YORK NEW YORK SIGN UPS. SIGN UP FOR ONE, THE
GOVERNMENT JOBS! HELP! I NEED A RIDE HOME TO A Message for the unscrupulous OTHER, OR BOTH CALL 284-5342 ASK 
RESUMES, reports, etc. typed on a STADIUM SOX VS. WATERLOO 
computer. Call Sue's Secretarial Ser­NOW HIRING THIS AREAl $10,213 TO DIAMONDS Present Valid College ID
ANYWHERE IN THE STATE Meatuses (Tom, Dave, John, Mike & Wal­FOR JULIE, PENNEY, OR KELLY. AN
$75,473. IMMEDIATE OPENINGS! CALL (REFUNDABLE) 1-315-733-6062 

vice anytime at 2~. and watch
PREFERABLY SOMEWHERE BETW. ly): WE ARE PROUD .... TOSTAL 
baseball game for $1 .00
ALBANY

EXT F-2382H. & NY LEAVING 5'12, 13 OR 14 THE MEPHISTOPHELIAN MEATUSES SMC FRESHMAN FORMAL BOXERSEXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. Looking for a female housemate to share 
I pack light & will share expenses HAVE BECOME A LEGEND... "APRIL SHOWERS" Please call x3719 I need 5 graduation tix-call Tom 3155 ON SALE NOW IN ROOM 507, 510 OF
a 4 bedroom house located 6 miles north VOCATION COUNSELING for the ONE­of campus. $225 plus utilities. Available or 3157 HOLY CROSS PRIESTS & BROTHERS LEMAN! ONLY $5.00111 WHAT A BAR­GAIN! LIMITED SUPPLY-SO BUY NOW 
May 1. Call Jayne after 5:30-272-8805. PLANE TICKET TO PHILADELPHIA 
YEAR CANDIDATE PROGRAM and other ministry opportunities. Contact: FR. JOHN CONLEY, CSC BOX 541 NOTRE 

$$$$ NEED A SUMMER JOB? $$$$ SUMMER APARTMENT IN TURTLE MAY 12 $ 75; 239-6208(DAY) 287-MACINTOSH OWNERS Are you plan­ning on storing your computer over the
Positions as sales reps. available Work CREEK NEEDED. ONE ROOMMATE 1243(NIGHT)DAME 239-6385 HOPING TO ADOPT 
summer? Then you are the person I want' We're a happily married, financially
near your home, fulf.jlart time Commis­OR TWO SUBLETTERS. CALL 284­
I would like to RENT your computer forPray to St. Jude secure couple with a beautiful home $$Garduation Tickets Wanted-Big Buc the summer. Price negotiable. Call 
sion basis-you determine $$$$ For ap­4387 STACY OR JANENE AFTER 8 PM. 
pointment call Brad, 283-1246 and lots of lowe to share with a much­

Call Bob # 3467 X1401 Ask for ERIC.
WILL HOUSESIT FOR SUMMER 

wanted baby. If you are pregnant and Responsible for: clean house, pets, 
t am looking for a bike for grad school HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS SUM­considering adoption, please call us. On & off away they go every 20 mins or
next year. Steve 3767 MER (OR ANYTIME)? Jet there from 
PeRSONALS......f...
plants, yard. Call Debbie 283-4500 so I keep them warm while they wait going to study or picking up a date Chicago, Detroit or Cleveland for no 

VOTE MARK MANNING-UGLY MAN ON CHICAGO YOUTH CENTERS CAMPU more than $180 with AIRHITCH (TM), hi ag 
CAMP ROSENTHAL as reported In Consumer Reports, NY Times, Let's Go, and national network

LOST/FOUND I 
SUMMER JOBS Expanses paid. Confidential, legal. 
ALL LANil'WATER SPORTS Please csll Deborah and David collect RIDE TO FLORIDA PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS Lou, I didn't take your last dip (but I 
DO YOU HAVE A BLUE & WHITE WIL­morning shows. For details, call 212­
SON GOLF UMBRELLA? IF YOU 864-2000 or write: AIRHITCH(TM),
day or night at 312-935-4088. wanted to!)
PICKED IT UP FROM NIEWLAND 127 2901 Broadway, Suite 100G, NY, NY ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
Help. Help. Help. We need a ride home NEAR LAKE PLACID Marty does not actually love the Tunnel
BE1WEEN 9:15 AND 10:45 ON 10025. 
after exams on Friday or Saturday. Going CALL 1-800-343-8373. of Bung(but he is thinking about it!)
THURSDAY, PLEASE RETURN IT TO 

to Fort Lauderdale, Orlando, or Daytona. Yes, Bob we have been drinkin.
ITS OWNER. X4927 PLEASE BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL T­
RIDE NEEDED to and if possible from If you can help, please call Dave at 283-Seriously though, Anne is well blessed
SHIRTS CALL DAN # 4258Madison, WI between finals & senior wk. 3284. 

EYE CONTACT BRAND NAME last week. call 255-5152 if you found it. Life is what happens while you're making 1lost a camera case on stepan courts 
call Denise 2541 LENSES START AT 19.95 EA. 1-800-To the Women of (Father) Joe's Seminar, 
Joe has said nothing, ah .. ah..except for SUMMER CAMP STAFF NEEDED 
Thanks. other plans. -John Lennon 255-2020. 
expressing the warm and sincere feelings 
I NEED A RIDE HOME TO FLORIDA We are looking for Dynamic Staff for RAE ANN BARGER! he has for all good people. Yeah, that's MALE TO SHARE TOWNHOUSE NEAR it.
FOU NO-set of dorm keys in Cushing Hall. 

call 4328 to claim FOR THE SUMMER. I CAN LEAVE our multi-cultural, multi-racial, camp­(LEMANS HALL) FRIDAY 5'12 AND WILL SHARE NOR­Ing program located west of HAPPY 22ND BIRTHDAY, ...... Don't you trust him?
NO. CALL TYLER 277-4631 OR 271­t OST: At Sr. Formal-35mm kodak.Rt. MAL EXPENSES. CALL PAUL AT 289-Dowagiac, Mt. We serve economtcatty APRIL 27
9380 

disadvantaged youth from Chicago at GRADUATION CONGRATULATIONS! Oh by the way, James Donald Childs is
S1 ie of Ballrm contains all our pix.Pieae 0662 OR 283-3506! ................................................................ 
cah tohn 271-0129 Camp Rosenthal through our recrea­WE LOVE YOUI 21 on Saturday GO HOME! tional, adventure based, and training YOUR FAMILY So watch out vf5HEY NEED A VEHICLE? GREAT VAN AND programs. 

FOR SALE 

Dia vo, ·;nd a round, gold TRUCK PRICES-ONE WAYS STILL POSITIONS AVAILABLE: St. Christopher AVAIL CALL X1143 FOR INFO. GENERAL COUNSELORS; I NEED GRAD TtXt CALL MIKE# 1558 medal one on the soccer WATERFRONT DIR. Camp will provide FOR SALE lg. wooden couch and chair 
LOOK OUT!!! f; Stepan on Monday. If opportunity for WSI certification to 75$ call LISETTE 271-9396,1eave msg SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $279 FARLEY IS MAKIN' WAVES 
quattfled appttcants. each way on discounted scheduled LIFE IS ELSEWHERE LIFEGUAR[)o80ATING INSTR.; WORK FOR SALE: Brother electronic type alrttnes to Europe from Chicago. Cat! CREW LEADERS; INSTRUCTORS, writer. Call Sue, 283-4910. (800) 325-2222. LOT: Sr. Fm At Side of Ballrrn 35mm Arts & Crafts, ArchefY!Games, Wood­
you fu ~ .. -· "-call Pete at 2459 DURING AN TOSTAL 
this Thursday nlte at TODAY!! FARLEY HALL IS MAKIN' Kodak, contai1 · ah our pix Please Call CLUB 23 worklng;f'locketry, Nature Study. As­Modern couch and full-size bed for For ODN One Wo~d shirts call 3193 
WAVE John at 271-01 ;d SISTANT COOKS, DRIVEFK:LERK. sale.Great condition. Call 234-8365 Neil Young Cat Stevens CSYN rem For more Information CONTACT: THE QUEEN OF ISRAEL IS 20 TODAY!!! 
HAPPY LOST: GOLD NUGGIOT NECKLACE. 10,000 Maniacs Jimi Hendrix dylan CAMP ROSENTHAL '79 PINTO WAGON. STICK SHIFT, Happy B-day Tiffany ... Hope the begin­
SECRETARIES DAY EXTREME SENTIME!IffAL VALUE. Tracy Chapman and more !! 3384 CLAWSON ROAD GOOD SHAPE, DEPENDABLE, HIGH ning of decade # 3 is the grooviest yeti TO ALL! CALL BEKI AT 284-5127. DOWAGIAC, Ml 49047 MILES. $600. 277-6031. Love, Shea
life is elsewhere LOVE, AMY (COPY CENTER) 
(616) 424-5272 '81 Subaru, FWD, 108K, Best offer dad is giving me his-must sell 3554 DON'T BE A GEEK 
································································ 
HAPPY 20TH B-DAY, SWEETHEART!


FOR RENT 

BE A SENIOR MARK MANNING FOR UMOCI'LL ALWAYS LOVE YOU! 
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES IIIII NICE FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. YOUR LITTLE PRINCESS Want FREE ADMISSION to next year's SENIOR MONTH SENIOR MONTH
FOR SALE CHEAP!

287-6389, 683-8889. Junior Class Events? 
ONE-WAY TICKET SOUTH BEND TO 

Looking to meet more of your 
LAX ON 523. CALL 284-5314. It's Getting Ugly ... 
APT. 2 PEOPLE GOOD NEIGHBOR­classmates? 
..............................•................................. TO THE GIRL WHO RAISED MY TEM­
HOOD 288-0955289-2331 Looking to help our class as a photog­PERATURE. LET'S TRY IT AGAIN Top 5 UMOC candidatesATTENTION: rapher at class events? Join the Class REAL SOON. IT WAS INCREDIBLE. 1) Dan-0 YuANYONE UVING IN NYC AREAMALE GRADUATES of 1991 Photography "PETE" 2) "Diamond" Dave Bruner

TICKETS
NEED THINGS SHIPPED HOME?

FURNISHED ROOMS, AIR, KITCHEN, Group 3) Mark J. HahnCALL JOHN AT 271-8704 ORFRIDGE. 5 MINS. N. CAMPUS. 272­Contact Sean Scanlon at 283-1139 4) Kathleen McKernan
283-1789 (AFTER 10:00PM) HE THINKS HE'S SOOOO CUTEilt
0615. ••• HAWAIIAN CLUB LUAU ••• 5) John "the tool face" DiceBIJT WE KNOW BETTER ... 
GOING T.O FLORIDA??? Saturday, April 29 

VOTE FOR BRIAN O'GARA FOR
SUB-LEASING TURTLE CR. Anyone looking for riders at the end of So.Dining Hall 6-9 p.m. 
Voting Continues Tonight and Tomorrow the school year to Orlando, Daytona, or Tickets $5.00
VOTE DAN-0 YU FOR UMOC

TWNHOUSE IF INTERESTED CALL UMOC HE'S UUUGL VII It's never been so gross ... 
7-9 Lafortune by Info BoothTIM1:lAN x1 066 Ft. Lauderdale, please call Will at 283-On sale now at ISO office or LANCE x2458 
2089. 
SOO:l 


--~-----~--------------~-------------------------~~-----------~ 



Sports Wednesday 
Wednesday, April 26, 1989 page 11 



• Dallas Seattle (from Indianapolis) Troy Aikman, QB, UCLA Andy Heck, OT, Notre Dame 
e~~~~:~darlch, OT, Mich. St. ' :=~'¥es, Wf:li 
...... .
8 Detroit • Phoenix (from Seattle) 
Barry Sanders, RB, Oklahoma St. Joe Wolf, OG, Boston CollegeGKansas City .. 4 New York Giants 
Derrick Thomas, LB. Alabama ·W Brian Williams, OG, MinnesotaQ Atlanta • New Orleans 
Deion Sanders, DB, Florida St. Wayne Martin, DE, Arkansas
OTampa Bay 4 Denver (from Cleveland} Broderick Thomas, LB. Nebraska W Steve Atwater, DB, Arkansas0 Pittsburgh • Los Angeles Rams Tim Worley, RB, Georgia Bill Hawkins, DE, Miami, Fla.
OSan Diego A Indianapolis (from Philadelphia) Burt Grossman, DE, Pittsburgh W Andre Rison, WR, Mich. St.0 Miami • Houston Sammie Smith, RB, Florida St. David Williams, OT, Florida 
• Phoenix A Pittsburgh {from Mlnnescta) Eric Hill, LB. LSU W Tom Ricketts, OT, Pittsburgh4D Chicago (from L.A. Raiders) G) Miami (from Chicago) Donnell Woolford, DB, Clemson Louis Oliver, DB, Florida
8 Chicago (from Washington) A LA Rams (from Buffalo) Trace Armstrong, DE, Florida W Cleveland Gary, RB, Mlarnl, Fla. 
• 
Cleveland (from Denver) • Atlanta (from Cincinnati) Eric Metcalf, RB, Texas Shawn Collins, WR, N. Arizona 

• 
New York Jets a San Francisco Jeff Lageman, LB, Virginia W Keith Delong, LB, Tennessee 


Irish Baseball  AP •  
Through Monday BATTER GP AB R Erik Madsen, P 11 1 0 Dan Peltier. OF 40 148 46 James Sass, OF 40 125 27 Jason Martinez, DH 24 44 10 Jon Baker 5 3 0  H 1 67 50 16 1  28 0 18 4 4 0  38 0 3 3 0 0  HR 0 6 3 1 0  RBI 1 48 43 9 0  BA 1.000 .453 .400 .364 .333  
Pat Pesavento, SS Joe Binkiewicz, 1 B Paul Lange, DH Mike Rotkis, DH Ed Lund, C Cory Mee, 2B Frank Jacobs, DH Mike Coss. 3B Craig Counsell, OF Mike Moshier, 2B  40 34 11 22 36 26 29 36 35 37  136 53 93 16 10 5 30 4 117 24 46 11 82 15 99 22 95 25 93 14  45 28 3 9 35 13 23 27 25 24  4 9 0 1 6 0 5 4 3 1  0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0  0 1 0 1 4 0 2 0 0 0  13 27 3 3 31 1 17 13 19 16  .331 .301 .300 .300 .299 .283 .280 .273 .263 .258  
Pat Eilers, OF Tom Allen, OF Matt Krall, DH ' Brian Piotrowicz, P Brian Conway, P Tom Murray Mike Rooney John Flanagan NOTRE DAME OPPONENTS  35 19 14 13 8 9 8 1 40 40  56 12 19 4 15 2 1 0 0 1 2 2 3 4 1 0 1219 297 1179 171  14 3 2 0 0 0 0 0 386 322  3 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 63 65  0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 8 9  0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 18 12  8 2 3 0 0 1 0 0 258 150  .250 .158 .133 .000 .000 .000 .000 .000 .317 .273  
Left on base: Notre Dame 304, Opponents 270  
PITCHER Mike Coss David Legus Joe Binkiewicz Brian Piotrowicz Tony Livorsi Erik Madsen Mike Coffey Mike Passilla Brian Conway Tom Gulka Dan Marzec Jim Passinault  GP 1 3 5 12 17 12 20 9 9 5 4 1  GS 0 2 0 11 1 10 0 7 7 0 1 0  IP 1.0 9.3 6.3 64.0 36.0 62.7 39.3 35.3 38.0 8.0 10.0 1.0  H 0 6 10 62 34 66 37 38 39 13 15 2  BB 0 4 3 24 10 19 18 10 22 4 6 1  so 0 4 3 46 23 42 33 15 20 3 6 0  ER 0 1 1 14 11 25 16 18 20 6 10 1  W·L 0-0 1-0 1·0 6·3 3·0 6-3 5-0 4·2 3-2 0·0 1·0 0-0  ERA 0.00 0.96 1.42 1.97 2.75 3.59 3.66 4.58 4.74 6.75 9.00 9.00  
NOTRE DAME OPPONENTS  40 40  40 40  311.0 322 3311.3386  121 227  195 175  123 245  3Q-10 1Q-30  3.56 7.08  

Wednesday's Games 
Source: NFL Players Association 

Los Angeles at Chicago San Diego at Pittsburgh Montreal at Cincinnati 
NHL Playoffs

Atlanta at New York San Francisco at St. Louis 
NHL DIVISION FINALS Philadelphia at Houston Wales Conference Patrick Division American League 
Pittsburgh vs. Philadelphia 

Baltimore 
Milwaukee Boston Toronto New York Detroit Cleveland 
Texas Oakland Kansas City California Minnesota Seattle Chicago 
Tuesday's Results Norris Division 

Milwaukee 10, Minnesota 4 Chicago vs. St. Louis Detroit 5, Seattle 2 Chicago leads sarles 3-1 Boston 11, Chicago 0 Game 1: Chicago 3, St. Louis 1 Kansas City 5, New York 3 Game 2: St. Louis 5, Chicago 4 (2 OT) Texas 11, Cleveland 7 Game 3: Chicago 5, St. Louis 2 
Baltimore at California (late) Game 4: Chicago 3, St. Louis 2 Toronto al Oakland (late) Wednesday: Chicago at St. Louis Wednesday's Games 
x·Fridy: St. Louis at Chicago 

Detroit at California x-Sunday: Chicago at St. Louis Texas at Cleveland Minnesota at Milwaukee Smythe Division 
Chicago at Boslon Calgary vs. Los Angeles New York at Kansas City Calgary wins series 4-o Game 1: Calgary 4, Los Angeles 3 (OT) Game 2: Calgary 8, Los Angeles 3 Game 3: Calgary 5, Los Angeles 2
Sports-Calendar 
Game 4: Calgary 5, Los Angeles 3 
Home games in CAPS x-if necessary 
Wednesday 
Scoreboard
Baseball vs. INDIANA, 3 p.m. Softball at Southwestern Michigan (2) 
Results for Apr. 19-Apr. 25 Lacrosse at Michigan State 

Baseball (30·10)Thursday Notre Dame 1 0, Northwestern 8 Baseball at Chicago State Notre Dame 16, Tri-State 5 Detroit 1 , Notre Dame 0 Friday Notre Dame 7, Detroit 2 
Detroit 6, Notre Dame 3 Detroit 5, Notre Dame 4 SMC softball vs. IUPUI, 3:30 p.m. 

Saturday 
Lacrosse (7-4)Baseball vs. XAVIER (2), 1 p.m. 

Ohio Wesleyan 18, Notre Dame 5

Men's tennis vs. ILLINOIS STATE, 9 a.m. and KALAMAZOO, 2 p.m. 
Softball (22-20)Women's tennis vs. TOLEDO, 1 p.m. 

Notre Dame 6, Southwestern Michigan 0Softball at Marquette (2) Notre Dame 9, Southwestern Michigan 1Lacrosse at Ohio State Wisconsin-Green Bay 2, Notre Dame 1Track at Drake Relays Loyola 5, Notre Dame 3Men's golf at Midwest Invitational in DeKalb, DePaul 9, Notre Dame 1Ill. 

Drake 4, Notre Dame 3SMC tennis vs. TOLEDO, 2:30 p.m. 

Northern Iowa 2, Notre Dame 0SMC softball at Bethel Men's golf

Sunday 

Notre Dame placed sixth out of a 16-team Baseball vs. XAV1Eif(2), 1 p.m. 
field at the Spartan Invitational with a score Track at Ball State 
of 915 for the 54-hole tournament. Track at Drake Relays 
Men's golf at Midwest Invitational 
Men's track Notre Dame placed fifth overall at the Indiana Monday lntercollegiates with a total of 19 points. No sports scheduled. Men's tennis (17·9) Tuesday Notre Dame 7, Michigan State 2 
Baseball vs. VALPARAISO (2), 4 p.m. Softball vs. DePAUL (2), 4 p.m. 
Women's tennis (1!Hi) Northwestern 5, Notre Dame 4 Indiana 9, Notre Dame 0 
Love, _Cindy and 
Pittsburgh leads series 3·2 w L Pet. GB 
East 
Game 1: Pittsburgh (''Philadelphia 3 9 9 .500 
Game 2: Philadelphia 4, Pittsburgh 2 9 9 .500 
Game 3: Pittsburgh 4, Philadelphia 3 (OT) 8 9 .471 .5 
Game 4: Philadelphia 4, Pittsburgh 1 8 11 .421 1.5 
Game 5: Pittsburgh 10, Philadelphia 7 8 11 .421 1.5 
Thursday: Pittsburgh at Philadelphia 7 10 .412 1.5 
x-Saturday: Philadelphia at Pittsburgh 
7 11 .389 2 West 
Adams Division Boston vs. Montreal 14 4 .778 
Montreal wins series 4-1 14 6 .700 1 
Game 1 : Montreal 3, Boston 2 1i! 7 .632 2.5 
Game 2: Montreal 3, Boston 2 (OT) 10 9 .526 4.5 
Game 3: Montreal 5, Boston 4 9 9 .500 5 
Game 4: Boston 3, Montreal 2 8 13 .381 7.5 
Game 5: Montreal 3, Boston 2 7 12 .368 7.5 
Campbell Conference 

Atlanta Tampa Bay Tampa Bay Buffalo New England Baltimore New England New Orleans 
Detroit 
Buffalo 
AP 
NBA Playoffs 
FIRST ROUND (Best-of-five) Eastern Confefence 
Philadelphia vs. New York Thursday: Philadelphia at New York Saturday: Philadelphia at New York May 2: New York at Philadelphia x-May 4: New York at Philadelphia x-May 7: Philadelphia at New York 
MilWaukee vs. Atlanta Thursday: Milwaukee at AUanta Saturday: Milwaukee al AUanta May 2: Atlanta at Milwaukee x·May 5: Atlanta at Milwaukee x·May 7: Milwaukee at Atlanta 
Chicago vs. Cleveland Friday: Chicago at Cleveland Sunday: Chicago at Cleveland May 3: Cleveland at Chicago x-May 5: Cleveland at Chicago x-May 7: Chicago at Cleveland 
Boston va. Detroit Friday: Boston at Detroit Sunday: Boston at Detroit May 2: Detroij at Boston x-May 4: Detroit at Boston x-May 7: Boston at Detroit 
Westam Conlentnce 
Golden State va. Utah Thursday: Golden State at Utah Saturday: Golden State al Lilah May 2: Utah al Golden State x-May 4: Utah al Golden State x-May 6: Golden State at Utah 
Portland ve. Loa Angeles Thursday: Portland at Los Angeles Sunday: Portland at Los Angeles May 3. Los Angeles at Portland x-May 5: Los Angeles at Portland x·May 7: Portland at Los Angeles 
Houston vs. Seattle Friday: Houston at Seattle Sunday: Houston at Seattle May 3: Seattle at Houston x-May 5: Seattle at Houston x-May 7: Houston at Seattle 
Denver va. Phoenix Friday: Denver at Phoenix Sunday: Denver at Phoenix May 2: Phoenix at Denver x-May 4: Phoenix at Denver x-May 6: Denver al Phoenix 
x-if necessary 
Midwest League 
Northern Division 

w  L  Pet.  GB  
Kenosha  11  3  .786  
South Bend  10  3  .769  .5  
Rockford  7  8  .467  4.5  
Appleton  6  8  .429  5  
Madison  6  9  .400  5.5  
Wausau  4  7  .364  5.5  
Beloil  4  9  .308  6.5  
Southern Division  
Peoria  13  5  .722  
Springfield  11  6  .647  1.5  
Cedar Rapids  8  5  .615  2.5  
Burlington  8  7  .533  3.5  
Waterloo  6  10  .375  6  
Clinton  6  11  .353  6.5  
Quad City  3  12  .200  8.5  
Tuesday's Results  

South Bend 5, Waterloo 4 
Starting LB, Atlanta Starting QB, Tampa Bay Starting RB, L.A. Raiders Starting DE, Buffalo Starting WR, New England Starting QB, Denver DE, New England Out of football Out of football Out of football 



The Observer Wednesday, April 26, 1989 

Prices! 

To fine tune you car. To fine tune your skills. 
To do the job right, you need the right tools. 
The ITiost effective tool for fine tuning your skills 
willlJe available at up to 16% below the already 

rock bottom student price. Don't leave school this 
year without the advantage you will need this sum­

mer and in years to come.~ the ability to make your 
work stand out. 

Come test drive an Apple Macintosh™ today. 
For more information, please contact: Notre Dame Computer Store Office of University Computing Computer/Math Building Room 25 
8:00AM-5:00PM 239-7477 
® 

The Power to Be Your Best™ 
-~­

Canadien's 3-2 win over Bruins clinches division 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL--The Montreal Canadiens avenged last year's playoff elimination by Boston, riding the goaltending of Patrick Roy and a strong defense to the Adams Division title with a 3-2 victory over the Bruins Tuesday night. 
Montreal, which was 11-1-1 against Boston in the regular season and playoffs, advances to meet the Patrick Division survivor. Pittsburgh leads Philadelphia in that series 3-2. 
Each result in this five-game series was by one goal. Roy was the winning goalie in the four Montreal victories and now is 30-0-4 at the Forum since losing to Boston in the 1988 Adams playoff clincher. He made 22 saves Tuesday as the Canadiens re-established their domination of the Bruins in the playoffs--they have won 21 of the last 23 postseason matchups. 
Stephane Richer got the win­ning goal at 4: 14 of the third period when he took a rebound off the stick of goalie Andy Moog, spun around and put in a backhander. That made it 3-1 and was enough to withstand Bob Joyce's second goal of the game, at 7:31 on a 25-footer. 
Joyce had given Boston a 1-0 lead in the first period, com­pleting a 2-on-1 break with Craig Janney by scoring on a 20-foot shot. 
Chris Chelios tied it 4: 13 into the second period when he came out from behind the net with the puck and, through a screen, beat Moog between the pads from short range. 
Shayne Corson made it 2-1 at 
9:40 with a 55-footer from the left boards that ticked Moog's stick and pads before settling in the net. 
Boston lost defenseman Mi­chael Thelven with an apparent shoulder injury when checked into the boards in the first per­iod by Mike McPhee. 
Penguins 10, Flyers 7 
PITTSBURGH--Mario Lemieux tied NHL playoff records with four first-period goals, five overall and eight points Tuesday night as the Pit­tsburgh Penguins beat the Philadelphia Flyers 10-7 to take a 3-2 lead in the Patrick Divi­sion finals. 
Lemieux, listed as question­able before the game with a whiplash-like neck injury, scored a natural hat trick in the first 6:55 of play to give the pumped-up Penguins, who led 9-3 entering the final period, a 3-0 lead. 
In a playoff performance rivaling any by the once­incomparable Wayne Gretzky, 


SUCH A DEAL! 
Bring Your AN TOSTAL CUP 
to the CLUB 
TEMPORARY INDUSTRIAL POSITIONS 
Indianapolis manufacturer may be hiring temporary production employees for the summer session. Hourly wage will be $7.50. Positions will require shift work and overtime. 
To apply, please call 
1-800-438-0041 
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/HN 
Lemieux made it 5-1 with his fourth goal at 17:09, tying the league record for playoff goals in a period set by the Flyers' Tim Kerr against theN ew York Rangers in 1985. 
The five goals match the ef­forts of Maurice Richard of Montreal in 1944 and Darryl Sit­tler of Toronto anri Rel!e:ie Leach of Philadelphia in 1976. 
The eight points match the year-old record set by New Jer­sey's Patrik : Sundstrom. Lemieux had eight points in a game twice during the regular season. 
The NHL scoring champion, returning to the "Mario the Magnificent" who scored 199 regular-season points, assisted on all three of the Penguins' second-period goals, two on picturebook feeds to right wing Rob Brown. 
His final goal came into an empty net with 37 seconds to play. 
The total goals were one short of the NHL playoff record set in 1982 when Edmonton beat Los Angeles 10-8. 
Lemieux was limited to three goals in the first four games of 
Guaranteed student loans for both schools 
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE 
• 
American Medical School curriculum 

• 
High pass rate on ECFMG. Guaranteed clinical rotations. 

• 
U.S. Medical Schools are accepting Ross students with advanced standing. Uated In WHO. 


SCHOOL OF VETERINARY MEDICINE 
• 
American Veterinary School curriculum 

• 
Listed In AVMA Dlrecto'Y· Only foreign vet echool doing clinical rotations In USA. 


U.S. Vet Schools accepting students with advance standings. 
Now aocepting applications for both schools for Spring. Fall and Winter semesters. 
lnformetlon: lntematlonal Educational Admlaalons, Inc., 460 W•st 34th St. New Vorl<, N.Y. 10001 (212) 27~ 
Grati Students, 
Professors, 
Employees 

MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Less than 1 0 minutes from campus 


• Washer & dryer i;; each apartment • flexible leases ( alsu -furnished executive suites ) @ 
£QUAL HOUSING
call for details-277-3731 
OPP!Im!NTTY 

the series and was shut out in Game 4 as the Flyers won 4-1, but the Flyers barely had a chance to lace up their skates before he began pounding the puck at goaltender Ron Hex­tall. 
Playing in its first second­round series in 10 years, Pit­tsburgh threatened the NHL playoff record of seven goals in a period before settling for a 6-1 lead. Mter Mike Bullard's goal, Lemieux scored his fourth and most spectacular goal and his lOth in nine playoff games. 
The big guns rolled into the Sweet Sixteen. Adworks easily disposed of 4 Men and a Red­Headed Stepchild 21-7, while Malicious Prostitution had a tougher time, downing The Cotton Club 21-14. 
Murphy's Bar finally got its entire team together and beat Nice But Nasty 21-14. Kevin Warren exploded for 10 points, and Andy Heck, the first round draft pick of the Seahawks back from his visit to Seattle, added seven hoops. 
"This is the first time we've had our guys together in awhile and we olaved well." Steve 
Belles said. "Kevin and Andy really came through today." 
Clockwork Orange, playing without Frank Starns, fell to Lenny's American Grill 21-19, while Killer Bees continued on its roll by upending All the President's Men III 21-11. 
+
American 
Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 

Paris 
Frankfurt 
Madrid 
Rome 
Scheduled carriers! Book anytime! AboYB fares Y2 Round:rrip from Chicago. Some restricllons apply~ 0'>-the-spot rail passes. lnl'l Student l.O., youth hOSlel passes. work and study abroad programs. FREE Studenl Tr!Mll Calalog. 
nd 

29 E. OelawarePI._jChicago, IL 60611 


....____ 312-951{)585 312-475·5070 
Men 
continued from page 16 
Jim Dolan and John McCabe led Coach's with six hoops each, while Mike Bobinski tossed in four baskets. 
"Our big strength is inside and we just couldn't get it going," Bobinski said. "They were doing a good job of taking the ball away from our big guys. Then we didn't put it on the floor and we started getting a lot of fouls. That's when we knew we had it." 
In an upset, Rubber Cement upended Touch-N-Go 21-16 be­hind the nine points of Dwayne Treolo and the five hoops of Phil Kraker. 
Touch-N--Go played without Tom DuPree, who was injured in Monday afternoon's victory. 
"That kind of helped lJS," Kraker said. "With him in the game, it would have been closer. This is probably the best we have played. I was happy with our defense and rebound­ing." 

page 14 The Observer Wednesday, April 26, 1989 


Brewers trounce Twins 10-4· Rangers triumph again, 11-7 ' 
Associated Press  evert~ 14-4.  Detroit Tigers past the Seattle  
Bobby  Witt,  3-0,  allowed  Mariners 5-2.  
MILWAUKEE-­ Glenn  seven runs on seven hits in five  
Braggs and Paul Molitor both  innings.  Brad  Arnsberg  Scott Bankhead, 1-2, gave up  
hit two homers and Bryan Clut­ pitched four scoreless innings  six  hits  in  six  innings  for  
terbuck earned his first major  for his first career save.  Seattle. Bankhead retired the  
league victory with  a  seven­ Scott  Bailes, 1-1,  took  the  first nine batters in order, get­ 
hitter Tuesday night as the Mil­waukee Brewers routed the  loss, giving up five runs on four hits in three innings of relief  ting five of his eight strikeouts.  
Minnesota Twins 10-4.  after  Rich  Yett  surrendered  Tanana, 1-3, struck out five  
Braggs drove in five runs. He  four runs on seven hits in 1 1-3  and walked one. He had been  
hit  a  two-run homer off Roy  innings.  0-7 with four no-decisions since  
Smith, 1-1, in the fourth, tripled in a run off Mike Cook in the  Royals 5, Yankees 3  beating the Chicago White Sox 5-4 last Aug. 19. Frank Williams  
sixth and had a two-run homer  relieved and gave up a hit and  
off Gary Wayne in the seventh.  a  walk before and Guillermo  
Molitor led off the first with  KANSAS CITY--Bo Jackson  Hernandez got the last two outs  
a solo homer--the 24th time he  hit his fourth home run in six  for his fourth save.  
has done so--and also hit one  games  Tuesday  night  as  
in the eighth. Gary Sheffield  Kansas City beat New York 5-3  With two outs in the sixth and  
added a home run in the fourth  for the Royals' fourth straight  the score tied at 2, Alan Tram­ 
on the pitch following Braggs'  victory.  mell  and Fred Lynn singled  
first homer.  John Candelaria, 2-2, retired  and Nokes hit a 1-0 pitch into  
Clutterbuck, 1-0, retired the first 11 batters in his first deci­ the first 10 batters until Kevin Seitzer hit his first home run  the upper deck in right for his fifth home run.  
sion since 1986, when he pitched  since  last  July  6. Jackson's  
in 20 games and was 0-1. He did  league-leading  seventh  home  
not  pitch in  a  major league  run, an opposite-field shot into  
game the last two years after undergoing elbow surgery in  the Kansas City bullpen, tied it 2-2 leading off the fifth.  Astros 4, Phillies 1  
1987.  With  two  outs  in the fifth,  
Rangers 11, Indians 7 CLEVELAND--Steve Buec­hele drove in four runs with a  Kurt Stillwell and Willie Wilson singled and Seitzer singled to score Stillwell with the Royals' third run. They made it 4-2 in the sixth when Pat Tabler sin­ HOUSTON-­Mike Scott pitched a four-hitter and Glenn Davis hit a two-run homer as  
single, double and triple and Pete Incaviglia had four hits Tuesday night in the Texas Rangers' 19-hit attack as they beat the Cleveland Indians 11-7.  gled, went to third on Bob Boone's single and scored on Frank White's double. Bret Saberhagen, 2-2, struck out five and walked none.  the Houston Astros beat the Philadelphia Phillies 4-1 Tues­day night. Davis has homered in three straight games and has six for  
Buechele and each knocked in  Incaviglia two runs  Tigers 5, Mariners 2  the season.  
during the Rangers'  five-run  DETROIT-­ Frank  Tanana  Scott, 3-1, had a shutout until  
fifth inning, which snapped a  pitched six-hit ball for eight in­ the seventh inning when Dar­ 
5-5 tie.  nings to snap his 11-game win­ ren Daulton hit his fifth homer  
Cleveland lost for the ninth  less  streak  and  Matt  Nokes  of the season. Daulton had one  
time in the last 11 games. Texas improved its best start  broke a tie with a three-run homer Tuesday, leading t~e  homer last bats.  season  in 144  at­ 


Davis' homer came with two homer as the Cincinnati Reds outs in the first inning and beat the Montreal Expos 6-1 scored Bill Doran who had sin­Tuesday night. gled. Davis also walked in the sixth inning and scored from The Reds had scored only 10· 
first base on Kevin Bass' runs in their previous six double. games, including three straight shutouts. The Expos have lost 
Philadelphia starter Ken four of their last five games. Howell, 2-1, struck out a career­high 10 in seven innings. Heal­
lowed four hits. O'Neill's second homer of the season came off Dennis Mar­tinez, 1-1, and put the Reds
Reds 6, Expos 1 
ahead 4-1 in the sixth. 



Madson 
continued from page 16 

. "We're classic overac­hievers," said Madsen, "because none of us have ex­ceptional talent but we just go out and work hard every day." 
Madsen works hard, as he has four complete games to his credit. No other pitcher on the staff has more than one. 
He is also described by Murphy as having a screw loose, which Madsen ack­nowledges. 
"I like to have fun, but when it comes to pitching, it's all business," said Madsen. "We're a highly structured team, but then again we like to have fun. But when it gets down to it, and I'm pitching, it's all business." 
With Indiana, business it now at hand. "He's got guts. I'm going to miss him a lot because he's 
been the key to our whole pitch­ing staff, the whole philosophy over the last two years." 
That philosophy is to make the most of talent, to go right after the hitters, and, above all, to throw strikes. Murphy takes pride in calling his club a blue collar team that makes up in effort what it lacks in raw tal­ent. 
"Madsen knows he's got to concentrate a little harder than the next guy because he doesn't have the great stuff, but he's a pitcher," said Murphy. "You don't have to have great stuff to be a good pitcher." 


Browning, 3-1, allowed just one in the first five innings--aCINCINNATI--Tom Brown­solo homer by Tim Wallach.
ing pitched a seven-hitter and Browning struck out five andPaul O'Neill snapped a sixth­walked none.
inning tie with a three-run 



SUMMER EMPLOYMENT 
In the next lew )'88rs, the number of jobs requiring a college educallon will greaHy exceed the number of college graduates available to fill them. Employers are racing against lime and each other to begin attracting future college graduates to their organizations. 
Don' waste your summer working low·paying menial labor type jobs. MIDWEST SUMMER CO·OP represents thousands of Indiana corporations and organizations that want to hire college students to worl< full·tlme during the summer In car-related positions. Worl< In :;our lletd of interest and gain valuable experience while earning a respectable income this summer. To be ellg· ible you must have completed a minimum of one yeer (24credit houra) In college and haveattained at least a "C" (2.0 on a 4.0 scale) grade point average. 
To get :;our summer pos~ion. simply match your car-Interests to the needsof an employer lis· ted In our SUMMER CO·OP DIRECTORY. The directory lists thousands of summer positions available throughout Indiana Job descriptions are organized Into 53 generalcatagortes ·Account· lng, Advertising, Design, Engineering (cMI, electrical, rnechanical), Educallon, Fashion Merchan· dlslng, Anance, Graphic Arts, Law, Mari<eting, Nursing, etc. Whatever your Interest. there are a number of positions to choose from. Worl< with and learn from some of the top professionals In Indiana The directorycomes complete with application materials and a tol~free number1o cal tar aaaistance In arranging Interviews. 
OUR GUARANTEE 
For every summer poslllon we fill with an eligible college studen~ MIDWESTSUM­
MER CQ-OP receives a tee from the employer for our services. Services to the 
employer Include: listing In our directory, pre-scr-.lng appflcants and arranging 
interviews. Our services are at no cost to the college student ~.we cannol 
alford to waste our time and resources on those who are not serious about ftndlng 
Quality summer employment The costa of producing and aendlng the dlrector1ea 
alone (they are the size of a telephone book) are vwy high. This Ia why we must 
request $5 to help cover the costa of each directory and set of application materials 
we aend out Wyou are unable tofind a summer position suitable lo )'001' n.daand 
Interests. you can return them tar a full refund. Hyoudo accepta position, undera list· 
lng agreement wnh MIDWEST SUMMER CQ-OP, the employer wiR refund the $5on 
)'001' first paycheck. 

Thlslsanexcellentopportunnyto"taste"your~lntereslslnlharealworldbelore~ 
a degree. Tal<e adVantage ol the shrinking pool of educated workers. Earn while you learn this summer. Flexlblejobstolttyourvacatlon schedule. AlljobspfO\IIdegreatpayandbenlllta. (Com­panies are allowed sizeabletax credits tar hiring college students CNfll the summer.) So, whatwll n be? Fast food f1ve or Fortune 500? The choice Is yours. 
Don' procrastinate, this can be a very important and valuable summertar you. Please direct all lnQUirtes to our processing center In Illinois. Send your name, current school Bddresa. home address, and $5 (refundable) to: 
MIDWEST SUMMER CO·OP 
Indiana Applications Dept. 
Oak Brook Center, Box 954 
Oak Brook, IL 60522-954 
Make check or money order payable to MIDWEST SUMMER CQ-OP. 
Directory and application materials will be aent out to you by express mall the same dey we receive your reQuest. Pleese, no phone calls until alter you have looked through the dlnlcloryand know which positions you are Interested ln. A directory listing thou8ands of summer positions In lllnols Is also available. Send requests to the lllnois Applications Dept at the aame ~ above. 
MIDWEST SUMMER CQ-OP Ia a supporter of the Indiana Hire the Future Summer Job Program. 
is accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Ad Designers 
For more information, contact Shannon Roach at 283-2608 or 239-5303 

CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 
3 p.m. Notre Dame Baseball vs. Indiana University. 
8 p.m. Pax Christi Meeting in the Center for Social Concerns chapel. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Noon Kellogg Institute brown bag lecture "Structural Reform of Enterprises: Process of Privatization in China?" by Gao Xian, Room 131 Decio. 
2 p.m. "Managerial Responsibility and Socio-Economic Sys­tems: Assessing the Papal Encyclicals," by James Post, Bos­ton University, CCE. 
2:30 p.m. "Catholic Social Teaching and the Multinational Manager," by Lee Tavis, Notre Dame, CCE. 
3:30 p.m. Catholic Social Teachings symposium presents Mi­chael Novak, American Enterprise Institute, CCE. 
4 p.m. "The Economics Encyclicals of Pope John Paul II: Theological and Economic Perspectives," by Philip Wogaman, Wesley Theological Seminary, CCE. 
4:15p.m. Reilly Center lecture "Reverse Engineering of the Nervous System: Brains and Computers," by James Bower, California Institute of Technology, Room 131 Decio. 
7:30 p.m. Catholic Social Teachings symposium presents Preston Williams, Harvard Divinity School, CCE. 
Notre Dame 5aint Mary's 
Meatball Grinder Philly Steak Sandwich Baked Cod Baked Perch-Lemon Butter Crepes Florentine Broccoli-Cheese Pasta Chicken Teriyaki Deli Bar 
ACROSS  23 Vapid  52 Newark's county  
1 Segment 5Woes 9 "Cry the Beloved Country" author 14 Bacchanalian  25 Scuttle 26 Feminine palindrome 29 Posterior 34 Macho males  55 Pampered, annoying child 61 Was in the van 63 Sang-froid 64 Benevolent  
cry 15 Fasten firmly 16 Convex molding 17 Place for an  37 Meadow mouse 39 Bumpkin 40 First Russian to be called "czar"  65 Spanish wool 66 "Bananas" top banana 671fnot  
earring 18 Actress Merrill 19 Marcel Marceau  43 Twerp 44 Hot and dry 45 Watering holes  68 Minute particle 69 Tamper with an odometer  
etal. 20 Company number  46 Lovers' appointments 48 Unit of  70 Foster 71 Hereditary factor  
21 Fictional juvenile hellion  capacitance 50 Had a snack  DOWN  
1 Hide  
2 Declares  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
3Golem 
4 Starting point for Strange 
5 Of a certainty 
6 Secular 
7 Connection 
8 Virgule 
9 Ointment 
'-'+~"+-~ 10 Enthusiastic ~=+=~~ 11 Sepulchral structure 12 Ersatz butter 
-i-:+::+.±:-!!i!~~R 13 Like a gossip -=+=~~~ 21 Hyssop, for one ~;.+-:..J.=..~ 22 Teredo ~;;..L.;.;;.J.;;;..L=.J 24 Redress 


27 Declare 

28 Subject 41 Waste maker bout 30 Three-toned 56 Wroclaw native 
42 Apiece de
chords 57 Medium for
resistance 
31 Massages Monet
47 Endowment
32 Skilled 58 Phrase of 
49 MSS. evaluator
33 Dregs understanding 34lntimate 51 Lawn implement 59 Tree trunk 35Aiways 53 Gladden so Diva Ponselle 36 Long Beach 54 Bubble-chamber 62 May Whitty's title Queen gas 65 Jet-set problem 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

BILL WA TIERSON 

T\4\S WOULD IS£ f.... LOT MoRt. FUN IF OOBB£5 WAS 1-\E.Rt.. r ~1 BE.LIEV£ 
Wt. \.£IT \111-\ f....T ~M£ . 
0 
~: 


"Dear .... Have you seen the beef brains I bought for supper tonight?" 
# 
Jordan J alllmer 2:15 

Slalll Dunk changed to 2: 45 


I?B?
Air Band Theodore's 8:00 Questions? 239-6171 

... 




Sports 
Wednesday, April 26, 1989
page 16 
Bookstore action heats up, Sweet Sixteen next 
Minahoonies win in OT; Hoosier Lawyers, Aunt Rubber Cement triumphs Flo, Two Words advance 
By GREG GUFFEY By MOLLY MAHONEY Assistant Sports Editor Sports Writer 
The seedings come out today for the Sweet They laid down the law Tuesday. Sixteen in Bookstore Basketball XVIII. Hoosier Lawyers needed very little time to Regardless of its seed, Minahoonies is just arrest the progress of Absolut Knott Tuesday glad to be there. as they won easily 21-7 to join the first eight 
Minahoonies outlasted Eddie and the Cruisers teams advancing to the Sweet Sixteen of the 30-28 in a marathon struggle as dusk ap­women's bookstore tournament. proached Tuesday on Stepan 2. The winners The Lawyers, led by Deb Kashul's flawless fought off several game points, an early eight­8-of-8 shooting from the field and Kathy Meyers' point deficit and 14-of-21 shooting from Eddie's six points, drubbed Absolut Knott in one of the Paul Fulling to advance. , shortest games of the day and will now get a 
"They definitely deserved to win," day of rest before meeting Aunt Flo and the Minahoonies' Steve Antinelli said. "We really Four Plugs Thursday. stole it." Aunt Flo earned a shot at the Lawyers by 
Minahoonies fell behind 15-7, but battled back handing the Hungry Wombats a 21-7 loss. to 20-18. Eddie's could not connect on the game Aunt Flo controlled the boards as Maureen point and Minahoonies forced overtime. Both Shea and Kathy Cunningham--former varsity teams had several opportunities to win the volleyball teammates--combined for 19 game in overtime, including a shot from Fulling rebounds and nine points. that went in and out of the hoop. Two Words annihilated the Dudettes 21-3 to 
"I looked up and thought it was in," Antinelli advance to the final sixteen as well. said. "He just had a great day. He was really Julie and Tammye Radke formed a for­tough." · midable tandem Tuesday as they scored 11 and 
Minahoonies was able to wear down the 6 points, respectively. Cruisers inside and took advantage of tllat in An Angel, Sally's Comet and Three Other the overtime. Heavenly Bodies outlasted a tough Orange 
"They weren't even guarding us outside," An­Crush team 21-15 as Yvette Angel, assistant co­tinelli said, "and we still kept pushing it inside. ach for the Notre Dame women's basketball We kind of wore them down and they had to team, dominated play with 11 points and six foul." rebounds. 
Antinelli led Minahoonies' balanced attack Orange Crush battled on the boards to stay with eight points, while D'Juan Francisco and ." in the game, with Maureen Deignan and Jill 
J.C. Treybus added six. Sean Connor and Tom Liebler combining for 16 rebounds, but could Gorman had five hoops each. not shoot down the Heavenly Bodies. 
Coach's is another team glad to be in the Keith, John, Flanner and Two Other Worth­Sweet Sixteen. Coach's rallied from an early less Towers survived an hour and a half marat­five-point deficit to down Swish Kabob 21-17. hon battle in the heat over Fawn Hall, ... c~•o:o•\;:(l 
see MEN 1page 13 Eight more teams, including the Hoosier Lawyers, advanced Tuesday. see WOMEN I page 9 
The Observer I Paul Compton 
Whitney Shewman (right) helped Aunt Flo and The Four Plugs down the Hungry Wombats 21-7 Tuesday to advance to the Sweet Sixteen. 


ND baseball prepares for IU 
Madson's pitching vital in rematch against Hoosiers 
Holtz can't complainabout spring practices 
When a reporter asked the inevitable question about whe­ther Notre Dame could successfully defend its national title, Lou Holtz referred to a statement he made countless times last season. 


Steve Megargee 
Irish Items 

"You're not talking to John Wooden here," Holtz said in the press conference after Saturday's Blue-Gold Game. "You're not talking to a guy who's been here before." 
Actually, he did change it somewhat. He used to compare his achievents with Jimmy Johnson and Barry Switzer, but those names lost their glamor when Johnson left for the NFL and Switzer's team got in trouble with the law. 
Despite what he may claim, Holtz knows a few secrets about how a team can repeat. The players received their championship rings after the Blue-Gold Game, but accor­ding to Holtz, that's the last time the team will discuss 1988. 
"I personally believe you don't have complacency if you just wrap up the past year and pass out the scrapbooks," said Holtz, joking adding that "we didn't have a single football player doing a commercial." 
Holtz already may be working at one disadvantage. Holtz is not going to get away with any apprehensive thoughts about a team that has 16 starters returning from last year's nat;onal champions. 
l'i Jbody will fall for pre-game quotes like "Rice scares me o death," this time around. 
H~ ving so many returning starters does have its advan­tage~ . In fact, it looks as if the 1989 Notre Dame team may be an improvement over last season's national champions, particularly at the quarterback position. 
''Tony Rice is a good passer,'' said Holtz. ''When we came to voting for the most improved player, I would have voted for Tony Rice--that's nothing against Ryan Mihalko," 
Mihalko, a sophomore running back, won the Hering Award as the most improved offensive back of spring prac­tices. 
The Irish also should be stronger on the offensive line next season, even without 1988 All-American Andy Heck. 
see HOLTZ I page 9 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Sports Writer 

When Erik Madsen and the Irish baseball team take the field against Indiana at 3 p.m. today at Jake Kline Field, they will be looking to prove once and for all that they can com­pete against Big Ten teams. 
It is especially fitting that the Irish will be playing the Hoosiers, who beat the Irish 10­0 on March 25. In that game, Erik Madsen took his first loss of the season and the Irish were held to four hits, committing four errors. 
"The players are a little em­barrassed about what hap­pened last time," said Irish head coach Pat Murphy. "It's not a revenge factor, but it's just that they want to prove to themselves that they can beat Indiana." 
Indiana comes from a confer­ence that the Irish have always struggled against. A year ago today, Notre Dame beat Purdue 5-2 to break a 20-game losing streak against Big Ten teams. 
When Indiana beat Notre Dame earlier this year, it raised its record to an impres­sive 20-1. Lately, however, it has struggled, mainly against teams in its own conference. It now owns a 28-15 record and is 3-13 in the Big Ten. 
"Indiana didn't play a very competitive schedule at the beginning of the season," said Murphy. "But they're a good 


r 
• 
Erik Madson 

Big Ten team, a pretty dis­ciplined team; I think we can play with them." 
One player who knows he can play with them is senior pitcher Erik Madsen, who was the losing pitcher in the loss to In­diana. 
"Last time I pitched against Indiana, I fell behind the hit­ters, and that hurt me bad," said Madsen. "This time I'm going to try to stay ahead of the hitters and get the second pitch over for a strike, and hopefully things will turn out better than last time." 
Indeed, the Great Falls, Mont., native allowed five hits, two walks and five runs in three innings against the Hoosiers. Notre Dame committed four errors in the game, and only two of Madsen's runs were earned. 
. Two months and 23 games later, Madsen is 6-3 with a 3.59 ERA. He is coming off an out­standing performance against Detroit on Saturday, when he pitched a five-hitter against the Titans. He allowed one run, the only run of the game, and the Irish lost 1-0. 
In fact, all three of Madsen's losses have come when the Irish were shut out. The Irish have been shut out a total of five times. 
Being one of three seniors on the pitching staff, Madsen nec­essarily inherits a leadership role. He and junior Brian Piotrowicz are the two most solid starters on the squad, and Madsen realizes that the more inexperienced pitchers learn from watching him. 
"As a leader I try to set an example when I go out and pitch," said Madsen. "I just try to show how to follow the plan that coach Murphy set up for us, just to get ahead of the hit­ters, don't give them too much credit, and go right after them." 
Murphy realizes the quality worker that he has in Erik Madsen. 
"He's a pitcher in the true sense of the word," said the second-year coach. "I'd like Erik Madsen on my team, I don't care where I was manag­ing. If I were managing in the major leagues I'd like an Erik Madsen on my team because he knows how to pitch, he's a tremendous competitor, a tre­mendous person, and a tremen­dous personality. 
see MADSON I page 14 




