
VOL. XXIII NO. 50 MONDAY , NOVEMBER 13. 1989 
· THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S . . 

TIMELINE: ~ East Germanv~1 In Upheaval 
Political protests developments 
Oct.  18 I  
Egon Krenz replaces  
1  Erich Honecker as  
party leader; two other  
2  hard-line Politburo  
.  members are fired.  .  
21  
First meeting between  
government and New  
Forum opposition  
group.  
Krenz promises new  
fiberallravellaw.  

Government opens its 
borders and says all 
citlzens may travel or Iemigrate freely. 
AP/Pat Lyons 
Thousands more flood West Berlin 
East, West Berlin mayors meet 
BERLIN (AP) -West Ger­fleeing countrymen, have been many's president on Sunday told not to use firearms any urged Western nations to help more in cases of border viola­East Germany recover from the tions. exodus of its citizens, and the But amid the euphoria, there mayors of East and West Berlin were reminders of the political shook hands in no man's land changes and uncertainty still to usher in a new era of rela­sweeping through East Ger­tions. many, which began carving 
East Germany's Communist passages through the 29-mile­Party leader called for an long Berlin Wall on Friday. emergency party congress and Communist Party chief Egon indicated a new slate of leadeJ:s Krenz called for an emergency will be installed to replace the party congress next month, the Old Guard and institute re­official ADN news agency said. forms in his changing nation. He indicated a new Central 
Another hole was cut through Committee will be elected to the Berlin Wall to the roaring carry out various reforms cheers of spectators. East Ber­aimed at stopping East Ger­liners continued to flood the mans from going West. western half of the city, buying "We need a Central Commit­all they could afford with their tee that can carry the full re­$55 of government "welcome sponsibility and enjoys full money." trust," Krenz was quoted as 
By Sunday afternoon. Burger telling reporters. King was out of beer and Haa­Krenz said the current Cen­gen-Daz had sold all its ice tral Committee would meet cream bars. Monday to approve holding the 
Unlike thousands who aban­congress. Also Monday, East doned their communist home­Germany's ParliamP.nt is to land for the West in recent meet to name a Cabinet to re­weeks, most people crossing on place the one that resigned the weekend were just visiting, Tuesday. The reform-minded taking advantage of the free­party chief of Dresden, Hans dom created by the opening Modrow, was expected to be Thursday of East Germany's named premier. borders. By Sunday night, the Since Krenz replaced hard­border gridlock had eased, and liner Erich Honecker as party West Berlin's streets were re­chief Oct. 18, 10 full members turning to normal. of the ruling 21-member Polit­
Reflecting the new open-bor­buro have lost their positions. der policy, East German De­There also has been pressure fense Minister Heinz Kessler for the 163-member policy-set­said Sunday that border guards, who once shot at their see BERLIN I page 6 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
Green quad construction 
The Theodore M. Hesburgh Center for International Studies, presently under construction, is scheduled to be completed in December of 1990. The buildings, located on Green Field south of the University Club, center, and the CCE, top, will house the Kellogg Institute for International Studies and other facilities. 

Protesters picket NO-Israel game 
"Notre Dame's inaction or News Writer lack of comment about the current situation in the A demonstration to West Bank, and instead, promote awareness of the their reinforcing (of Israeli situation in the occupied policies) by playing Israel," territories of Israel took said Mansour Eid, alumnus place in front on the of Notre Dame and 
By VALLI VAIRAVAN 

J.A.C.C. on Friday night, organizer of the before the Notre Dame­demonstration. Israel exhibition basketball The demonstration was game. attended by students, 
A group of 15 to 20 people was protesting 
see PROTEST I page 4 
El Salvador rebels launch assault 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador An American teacher was assembly and privacy of corre­(AP) -Leftist rebels launched among the dead. spondence. their biggest offensive in San Rebels claimed 400 soldiers "You must heed the call to Salvador in the 10-year-old civil were killed or wounded. not go out in the streets, to war, battling troops in fighting There were reports of fight­stay in your houses or where in which at least 127 people ing in four of the country's 14 you are right now. It's just a were killed, the military said provinces, including the north­question of a short time," Cris­Sunday. ern section of San Salvador. tiani said. 
President Alfredo Cristiani The international airport was His Cabinet approved the declared a curfew and state of closed after military installa­measure and the legislative siege. Cristiani's official resi­tions were attacked by mortar assembly will vote on it Mon­dence was among the targets of fire. day, the president said. the rebels' offensive, launched "The terrorists must know Saturday night. He was at his Cristiani announced a 6 p.m. that there are judicial tools to private home and was not hurt. to 6 a.m. curfew and the state fight these irrational attacks." 
Hospitals reported at least of siege in an address on radio The armed forces press office 197_people were wounded in the and television. The state of said 26 soldiers had been killed offensive, which continued Sun­siege restricts transit, the free­day. dom of expression, rights of see REBELS I page 7 
Report says ND should revise its policy towards women 
By KELLEY TUTHILL empowered administrative 
tus of Women; and the Standing Provost and the Board of 
Assistant News Editor 
channels for coordinating and Committee on the Status of Trustees. monitoring the status of Women should advise the Pres­
The Faculty Senate Committee women on campus," stated the ident or the Provost in the ap­•The committee report to the on the Status of Women re­report presented to the Aca­pointment of this person. top level administrators in cently presented a report that demic and Faculty Affairs monthly sessions during the pointed out specific problems Committee. •The committee have the first two years.that women face at the Univer­power to identify concerns and sity and recommended possible The report made the follow­Advocate who would be an offi­issues related to the status of The faculty committee Is an solutions to a committee of the ing recommendations: cer of the University and a women, to coordinate efforts to ad-hoc committee that consists Board of Trustees. •Notre Dame should establish member of the Provost's Advi­improve the campus for of eight senators. F. Ellen 
a standing University Commit­sory Committee who functions women, to target specific con­Weaver, associate professional 
"We discovered that the Uni­tee on the Status of Women as a high level advocate for cerns and issues to be ad­specialist and assistant chair of versity of Notre Dame was not that would represent all women women; this person should be dressed and to monitor their Theology, and Kathleen Bid-doing as much as our peer in­of Notre Dame. ex officio member of the Uni­progress, and to report regu­stitutions to establish strong •There should be a Women's versity Committee on the Sta-larly to the President, the see WOMEN I page 7 

Monday, November 13, 1989
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN WEATHER 


Give students a break during long classes 
"And if we continue with a further analy­sis of where we left off last wBek. we can come to the conclu­sion th~t...ZZZZZZZZZZ ." If you haven't snoozed in a 75­minute class, you're not a Notre Dame student. Hut it isn't --------­just lack of sleep that causes these lapses of consciousness. The rooms are so hot and stuffy, even a plastic chair made to conform to someone else seems comfortable. Students often are really worn out by Thursday. 
Departmental exams are Tuesday and Thursday mornings. And some Tuesday­Thursday dasses arn just plain boring. 
My three Tuesday-Thursdays are among the most interesting classes I've had at Notre Dame. Hut even when I try not to, I find myself slowly and uncontrollably falling asleep. These classes are nap-inducing. 
I've tried everything -I got one of those things truckers put on their ears that buzz when the head tilts forward too far, but it 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Mon~y, November 13. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
50 

FRONTS: Yesterday's high: 47 Yesterday's low: 37 

COLD WARM STATIONARY Forecast:
©1989 Accu-Weather, Inc 

Theresa Kelly Sports Editor 
Pressure
®© 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
OF INTEREST 
The Grace Period panel discussion on World Awareness: Middle East Week pre­South Africa will be at 8 p.m. in the Grace Hall pit. sents two films to begin a week of events coneorning Panelists will be Fr. Oliver Williams, Prof. Lee Tavis, the Middle East. The films, "Introduction to the Arab Prof. Peter Walshe, Mr. Gary Sugarman, Mr. Jon Paul World" and "Israel: The Story of the Jewish People" Checquett, and Prof. Anand Pillay. will be shown at 7 p.m. in the llesburgh Library Audi­
torium. 

Volunteers for a learn-to-ski program for the handicapped are needed. The program is sponsored by "Hunger: The Tragedy We Choose," alec­Special Outdoor ·Leisure Opportunities. An informa­ture by John Hammock, executive director of OXFAM 
tional meeting will be at 7 p.m. in the Logan Center American, will be at 7 p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge, Lo Cafeteria, 1235 N. Eddy Street. For more information. Mans Hall, Saint Mary's College. contact Lisa Wilcox at 289-1529 in the evening. 
A lecture on French revolutionary figure A resume writing workshop, prosented by Charles Marice de Talleyrand will be presented by Marilyn Bury. assistant director of Carner and l'lacP· Bernard Norling, professor emeritus of history at ment Servieos, will be at 7 p.m. in tlw llesburgh Library Notre Dame, at 7:30 p.m. in the Caroll Auditorium of Lounge. The workshop will bP ropeated on WPdnesday, Madeleva Hall at Saint Mary's. Novmnber 15, at the same time-and place. 
was termed a classroom nuisance. 
I open the windows before class starts. I 
sit up straight and take deep breaths. I 
doodle on my notes. I pinch myself. I tell 
myself that class participation is 20 percent 
of my grade and it plummets when I nap. 
But my·narcolepsy continues. 
I could avoid scheduling them, but so 
many good dasses, and some required ones. are Tuesday-Thursdays. So I have found a snappy solution. 
Do away with 75-minute classes? If Tuesday-Thursday classes were 50 minutes, we'd have Saturday classes. My Uncle Mike used to have Saturday classes here, and some profs then would take attendance, as well as go on lecturing past kickoff. That's not an option I'd want to pursue. 
I took summer classes at another univer­sity. where there were (gasp) 105-minute classes. I didn't sleep at all in them. In those elasses. we had a 1 0-minute break after the first hour. 
Some profs extended class time, but some were happy to have alert students and accepted the break as class time. 
Ilow about a three-minute break in 75­minutn classes? What can you do in three minutes to keep awake? 
You can get caffeine if you feel drowsy, make up interesting quostions to ask in the second half of class, or. if you are in the Aorospace Building, you can cross the street, a feat guarantned to set your heart racing. 
You can yodel, order a pizza or check the messages on your answering machine. Whatever you do, you won't fall asleep when you get back. It's all psychological. If you know you can move in 30 minutes, you can stay awake. After the break, class is nearly done and it's too late to nap. 
I've got to do something. I have five Tuesday-Thursdays next semester. 
WORLD 

Legendary communist leader Dolores Ibar-anticipation of an arms control deal. "Tho fact of the ruri, nicknamed "La Pasionaria" for her fiery oratory matter is the Soviets have continued to modernize their during the Spanish Civil War. died Sunday in Madrid. strategic forces," Defense Secretary Dick Cheney said She was 93. A member of the Hamon y Cajal Hospital on the NBC-TV program "Meet the Prnss." medical team, speaking on condition of anonymity, said her death was due to "pneumonia, aggravated by her 

Thousands of Peruvians defied rebel throats
advanced age." 
and voted Sunday in mayoral elections in Peru. Maoist ' guerrillas trying to disrupt the balloting killed a 
New strategic nuclear weapons continue to candidate and blew up a church, a school and power be deployed by the Kremlin, top administration offi­lines. Four people were killed Sunday night, police re­cials in Washington insisted Sunday, although a pub­ported. lished report said some deployments. had been cut in 
NATIONAL 

U.S. economic aid for East Germany must A means of screening human eggs for ab-await clear evidence that the East Bloc country is will-normal genes before fertilization has been discovered ing to reform its economy, not just open its borders. by researchers, and it may be possible to usn the said Secretary of State James Baker Sunday. The technique to help prevent genetic disease. Doctors at dramatic change unfolding in Berlin is a "historic" the Illinois Masonic Medical Center's Heproductive Ge-political event, "but it doesn't mean a whole lot in ceo-netics Institute say the procedure could push genetic nomic terms," Baker said. screening back to the earliest possible point -before 
the pregnancy even occurs, said a report published in the Chicago Tribune's Sunday editions. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Today's Staff:  
News  Ad Design  VIewpoint  
Tiim O'Keefe  Maria Blohm  Kim Skiles  
Sandra Wiegand  Shannon Roach  Dave Brunner  
Jeanne Naylor  Melissa Gorham  
Accent  Kerry Clain  
Robyn Simmons  Systems  
Shonda Wilson  Spor1s  Amalia Meier  
Joe Zadrozny  Steve Megargee  Dsn Towers  
Production Kathy Gliwa Wendy Cunnigham  Day Staff Julie Parker  Business Liz Panzicia Maureen Gallagher  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
INDIANA MARKET UPDATE 

More than $520,000 in misued federal money, designated for training disadvantaged 
Closings for November 10, 1989 

workers at the Subaru-Isuzu Automotive Inc. plant near Lafayette, instead was used for start-up costs at the new auto assembly plant, a U.S. Department of Labor report says. 
Volume in shares Money totaling $523,648 from the federal Job 131.80 Million Training Partnership Act was part of an $86 million package of tax breaks 
Eighteen barges of pollutants and NYSE Index trash lie abandoned on the Ohio Hiver bottom 187.90 tf1.15 between Hockport, Ind., and Shawneetown, Ill. S&P Composite According to a copyright story in Sunday's 339.10 {} 2.53 Evansville Courier, cleaning up the mess Dow Jones Industrials apparently is no one's official responsibility. 2,625.61 {} 21.92 
Precious Metals

Balloons that shorted out a 7 .620-volt power line were released by Joseph McKinney Gold {7 $0.40 to $388.60 I oz. of Indianapolis, to celebrate his third birthday. 
Silver {7 4.4¢ to $5.261 oz.

The Anderson Municipal Light & Power Co. was not happy with the boy, since twenty-five Source: AP Anderson homes lost power for about half an hour because of the balloons. 
Cloudy and warmer today with a 40 percent chance of showers and a high around 60. 
ALMANAC 
On November 13: 
e In 1789: Benjamin Franklin 
wrote the letter in which he coined a now-famous saying, "Our new Constitution is now established. and has an ap­
pearance that promises perma­nency; but in this world nothing can be said to be certain, ex­cept death and taxes." 
e In 1927: The Holland Tun­nel -the first underwater tun­nel for vehicle traffic -opened to the public, connecting New York City and New Jersoy be­neath the Hudson Hiver. 
e In 1985: Some 23,000 resi­dents of Armero, Colombia, died when a gigantic mudslide, triggered by the Nevado del Huiz volcano, burind the city. 

Monday, November 13, 1989 
The Observer page 3 
Foundation that attempts to improve education for blacks gets ND chapter 
<_, 
~ -(·'. . 

·~~·· 
'
": 
. 
' 
i 

~ • 
Sr. Thea Bowman, recipient of the 1989 U.S. Catholic Award, was the inspiration for a black culture organization in her name, a chapter of which was recently initiated at Notre Dame. Story right. 
Pro-choice activists protest nationwide 
(AP) -Abortion-rights ac­tivists, fresh from electoral tri­umphs in New Jersey and Vir­ginia, began a nationwide series of protests Sunday with candles at dawn in a small Maine coastal town, hoping to illuminate the "darkness of back alley despair." 
The events played upon Presi­dent Bush's "thousand points of light" theme with a sunrise candlelight service in Kenneb­unk. Maine, near Bush's vaca­tion retreat, and a sunset vigil in San Francisco. 
Pro-choice activists were en­ergized last week by the success of gubernatorial candidates in Virginia and New Jersey who support the right to an abor­tion. 
In Washington, tens of thou­sands of demonstrators jammed the Mall, filling the area between the Lincoln Memorial and the Washington Monument. 
U.S. Park Police estimated the crowd by early afternoon at 150,000, said Lt. W.T. Lynch. 
Orgamzers, however, estimated the turnout at 300,000. 
"Turn up the heat across the nation," Sen. Alan Cranston, D­Calif., urged the crowd that waved signs and chanted pro­choice slogans for about five hours on a sunny, mild autumn day. "While the other side is out bombing (abortion) clinics, we'll be electing candidates and passing laws." 
"Today is historic and it marks for all of us no turning back," said Molly Yard, presi­dent of the National Organiza­tion for Women. "This will be the issue of 1990." 
In Los Angeles' Rancho Park, Rev. Jesse Jackson told a celebrity-laden crowd estimated by police at 20,000 that women aren't "puppets of the court." "We are creatures of a creator who endowed us with choice," Jackson said. "In our society, women are burdened with choices and they must have the freedom to choose a response to those burdens." 

.............ll.ll.ll.ll•n•ll.ll.ll.ll·ll·ll.ll.ll.ll.ll.lll 
By ASHOK RODRIGUES 
News Writer 
The Sister Thea Bowman Black Catholic Educational Foundation, a society which at­tempts to improve Catholic ed­ucation for black students, has established a chapter at the University of Notre Dame. 
The organization hopes to award scholarships to Notre Dame students in upcoming years, and is currently selling gift-wrapping paper to raise money to help subsidize nine students at the start, said Dan­nielle Black, co-president of the Notre Dame chapter. 
"The scholarships are given out to students who would not be able to return to school without it." she said. 
The organization also hopes to go beyond financial aid, ac­cording to Derek Gandy, Notre Dame admissions counselor and faculty advisor to the Soci­ety on campus. 

"The purpose of the founda­tion is to support disadvan­taged black students finan­cially, morally, spiritually, and socially," he said. 
According to its statement of purpose, the campus chapter wants to "develop programs and activities that promote a deeper understanding of the unique spiritual and cultural gifts which the black commu­nity brings to the church and society." 
The statement said that this goal will be fulfilled by events such as an African-American retreat and a Recollection Day emphasizing black spirituality and culture. Other listed objec­tives include interaction with the South Bend black commu­nity and the establishment of a course on black theology. 
The organization was 

founded nationally last year at St. Michael's College in Ver­
mont, according to a press bul­letin released earlier this year. Organizational meetings are still in progress, with one to take place at Notre Dame in April, said Gandy. 
Other schools have also initi­ated chapters, including Ge­orgetown, Boston College, and Catholic University, he added. 
Sister Thea Bowman, the in­spiration for the Society, is a faculty member for Black Catholic Studies at Xavier Uni­versity in New Orleans. 
The organization noted that she has appeared on "60 Min­utes" and will be the subject of an upcoming book and movie starring Whoopi Goldberg. 
Bowman appeared on cam­pus in February, delivering a lecture on black spirituality at Catholic universities, said Co­president Black. 

The Observer/Bill Mowle 


Showing off 

Students at the One-Hundred-First Annual Sorin Talent Show compare endowment behind a taunting bathtowel on Friday. 
DART call numbers for closed-out courses Newly closed-out courses on Friday, November 10.  
0008 0015  0398 0464  1085 1087  1360 1362  1814 1817  2799 2810  5017 5142  5313 5328  5427 5477  5503 5505  

--0037 0465 1090 1364 1826 2816 5157 5337 5480 5549 5556
i The Becker I!!H fill 1m !m !ll! llli !!!! !El ilii 
--0156 1000 1297 1395 2568 5007 5226 5351 5491 
ICPAReview!~~-~-~___:_~_~___:_~_~___:_~-~---~-~_:___~-~-~---~-~-~---~_:_~-~---~-=-=---~ 
--Notre Dame Student Government



1 COUrSe 1 
Intellectual committee presents 
•-•­
i will be having a i ii presentation on ii i November 15th i i at 6:00pm iI in the I ! Montgomery Theatre ! i at LaFortune. i
i i i i i Come see how we can i
I prepare you for the ! 
! CPA Exam ! 
i•ll.ll•n•ll•ll•ll•ll•ll•ll•n•11•11•1••11•11•11•11•n•ll•ii 

MONDAY NOVEMBER 13 7:00pm Hesburgh Library Auditorium "Introduction to the Arab world" and "lsrael:.The Story of the Jewish People" Two short length films. The first explores the diversity and unity, cultural traditions, and contemporary concerns of the Arab world. The second explains the historical and cultural role of the Jewish people in the Middle East. 


ADWORKS 


page 4 


Dinkins faces many problems in N.Y.C. 
NEW YORK (AP) -As the assaults). Forty percent of the 1mphoria of being eleded murders were drug related, mayor of New York City sub­Heppetto said. sides. David Dinkins may feel a In 1981, there were 26,000 four-year hangover kieking in. arrests on drug charges; in 
,A series of headaches awaits 1988, about 90,000; this year it Dinkins, the first blaek mayor will be about 110,000, he said. of tlw nation's most populous • AIDS. More than 22,000 city. And though they are com­New Yorkers contracted AIDS; mon to most dties -crack, more than 12,000 of them have crime. AIDS, the homeless -died. About 200,000 are in­they've become nasty migraines fected with the AIDS virus, ac­in New York. cording to some estimates. 
"I congratulate him and I though some say the number wish him well. but I don't envy could be as high as 360,000. him." former Mayor John Lind­"It's going to be bad," said say said the day after Dinkins Carisa Cunningham of the Gay 
defeated Hnpublic.an Hudolph Men's Health Crisis. "There's a 
Giuliani. "New York faces tow­perception that it's slowed ering problems and we've got down. but that's not the case." nowhnre to turn for help." By the end of 1991, there will 
Lindsay was referring to the be 40.000 AIDS cases; by 1993. underlying problem: morwy. 60,000, the city Health De­The economic boom of the '80s partment estimates. 

Alii Zughyaer peacefully protests outside the Notre Dame-Israel basketball game on Friday. Organizations 
has passed. revenues are slip­• Health care. "We're ex­

ping and Albany and Washing­tremely strained in terms of including Amnesty International and Women United For Justice and Peace were also represented. 
ton have problems of their own. capacity and in terms of finan­Dinkins will be staring at a cial difficulties," said Bruce violations in the occupied
generate awareness. potential billion-dollar deficit in Vladeck, president of the Three student organizations territories.
Protest
his first budget. United Hospital Fund of New represented in the protest The boundaries of Palestine "He faces enormous prob­York. a research group. continued from page 1 were the Anti-Apartheid and lsranl have bmm the eause lems," said outgoing Mayor "That's all hospitals," he alumni, and local families with Network. Amnesty of much of the conflict 
Edward Koch. "The question said, "though city hospitals are Palestinian connections. International, and Women between Jews and Arabs. Two 
will be, how will hH handle the taking the particular brunt of Among the participants was United for Justice and Peace. Arab territories, West Bank dollars that are available?" the epidemics of AIDS and Father Gaffney. associate John-Paul Checkett. of the and the Gaza Strip, wern 
Giuliani. in conceding defeat, crack and related illnesses." professor of Anthropology. Anti-Apartheid Network. em­seized by Israel in 196 7. in the said, "Our city is troubled in New York City hospitals. whose former student was phasized the connections be­Six Day War. As a result. denp and serious ways." public and private. average many thousands of Palestine
Eid. Gaffney said he did not tween oppressive governments 
"The city's physical facilities more than 90 percent occu­object to the fact that Notre in exchanging tHchnology and Arabs became homnless are in disarray," financier Felix pancy, he said. The national av­Dame was playing the Israeli methods and said that refugees. For nearly two Hohatyn, who helped rescue the erage is 60 percent. team, but did object to what "oppression is linked. I think years, then~ has be1~n a eity from its 1970s' fiscal crisis, Even if a 10-year. $2.1 billion the Israeli team represented. that we all cannot be locked Palestinian uprising in the two said earliPr this year. "Many of capital plan for city hospitals "My view is that Israel is re­into our own individual territories. against lsrcwli our bridges are crumbling or went ahead full steam -which 
sponsible for some serious causes." occupation. 
unsaf!'; many of our school it won't, he said -"that will violations of Palestinian Peter Smith of Amn1~sty In­buildings arn a disgrace; and achieve less than two-thirds of rights." lie said, and added ternational stated that the or­Said Eid, "As Catholics, I 
many of our streets would the modernization that, it is 

that his purpose in the ganization was strongly op­think it is our duty to speakembarrass a Third World agreed by everyone, is needed." 
demonstration was to posed to the human rights out." 
Dinkins. 
• Crack and crime. "They'rH inseparable," said Thomas Heppetto, director of the Citi­zens Crime Commission. And 




SKI STEAMBOAT 
they IHad to clogged court­rooms and overcrowded jails. In 1988, New York set 
SUN., JANUARY 7th TO MON., JANUARY 15th
rHcords for murders (1,896) 
and violent crime (162,916 


murders. rapes, robberies and 
The Observer incorrectly stated the date of sale in Kinko's copy ad. The coupon will run in the 11/17 edition for 1 00 free copies on 11/20. 
THE ARMY HAS THE FIERCEST HELICOPTER 
IN THE WORLD... 
It can see in the dark. And attack without being seen. It can strike like lightning. It's fast, smart. and mean. 
But the AH-64 Apache helicopterdoesn'tfly by itself. It needs tra1ned av1ators capable of handling itS awesome technology. 
Warrant Officer Flight Training takes ability, ded1cation and comm1tment. It's an intensive 40-week training program designed to take the very best people and make them pilots. 
If you have a h1gh school diploma, preferably two years of college and can complete Basic Tra1ning, we JUSt might have a flight suit your stze 
To find out if you qualify for Warrant Officer Flight Training, see your local Army Recruiter today. 
SGT Larry Holloway 

Army Recruiting Station 
125 S. Hill Street 
South Bend 
234-4187 

ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 

TRIP INCLUDES MOUNTAIN FACTS 
• Round trip luxurious motorcoach Elevation: Difficulty: 
transportation Base 6,900 ft. Beginner 15% Midmountain Thunderhead 9,080 ft. Intermediate 54%
• Condo's on the slope (no annoying 
Top Storm Peak 10,500 ft. Advanced 31%shuttle rides) Vertical Drop: 3,600 ft. Total Runs 101 
-Outdoor Hot Tub, Sauna Skiable Terrain: 2,500 acres Trail Grooming: Trails are 1 ,400 trails groomed every evening 
-Kitchen, 1 or 2 baths, Fireplaces 
Average Annual Snowfall: 27 feet by our fleet of "snow cats" 
• Planned parties (can't print details 
Longest Run: 2 112 miles Snowmaklng Cover:due to alcohol policy) (High Noon) 293 acres 
• Ski rentals at greatly reduced prices Totalllfts: 20 Lift Capacity: 28,730 skiers per hr.
-4 out of 5 day souvineer lift ticket 

SKI WITH US OR YOU MAY END UP ON THE SKI TRIP FROM HELL ! 
$359 with transportation 
$277 without transportation Information and Sign-up Meetings: 
Sun. Nov. 19 Rm. 118 Nieuwland 7 P.M. Sun. Dec. 3 Rm. 118 Nieuwland 7 P.M. 
OR CALL JEFF BURGFECHTEL AT 
283-1874 

-----------------------~--------------------------------------------------~---.~----~--~------------~ 
Monday, November 13, 1989 
The Observer page5 
Effort to legalize drugs starts to gain ground 
WASHINGTON lAP) -The conversion of former Secretary of State George Shultz has ex­perts predicting others from across the political spectrum will join ranks with those who sen decriminalization as a workable solution to the drug problem. 
National drug control policy director William Bennett ac­knowledges that Shultz may draw others with him. but ar­gues that legalization is a "dopey idea" and a "moral dis­aster" that won't wash with anyone who has been "within live miles of a crack house." 
Nevertheless, legalization proponents are trumpeting an October speech by Shultz that appeared in adapted form in The Wall Street Journal as a major step toward moving the once-radical viewpoint into the mainstream. 
The political mix of legaliza­tion advocates is already broad. On the conservative side are Shultz, who headed Presi­dent Reagan's State Depart­ment and President Nixon's Treasury Department, economist Milton Friedman and political commentator William Buckley. The liberal side in­cludes Democratic Mayor Kurt Schmoke of Baltimore, a former prosecutor, llodding Carter III. journalist and chief State Department spokesman in the Carter administration, and former Attorney General Hamsey Clark. 
"The liberal-conservative definitions keep crumbling," Princeton University's Ethan 
Nadelmann said in an interview. "Each is split into libertarian and social control groups." 
Some legalization advocates say the issue simply needs to be addressed, while others call for controlled legalization with al­cohol-like regulations for drugs such as marijuana, and more restrictive rules for more dan­gerous drugs. 
Most say President Bush's anti-drug strategy, developed by Bennett, is more of the same law enforcement programs that have not worked in the past. 
In an open letter to Bennett published in The Wall Street Journal on Sept. 7 -two days after Bush presented the strat­egy in a prime-time television address -Friedman wrote: "The path you propose of more police, more jails, use of the military in foreign countries; harsh penalties for drug users, and a whole panoply of repres­sive measures can only make a bad situation worse. The drug war cannot be won by those tactics without undermining the human liberty and individual freedom that you and I cher­ish." 
The column by Shultz -like Friedman, a denizen of the Hoover Institution at Stanford University -was less vitriolic but made similar arguments. 
"It seems to me we're notre­ally going to get anywhere until we can take the criminality out of the drug business and the in­centives for criminality out of it," Shultz wrote. 

The Observer/Bill Mowle 
Helping hands 
Volunteers at the monthly dance at Logan Center, a recreational center for the mentally handicapped, take a break from dancing to hand out refreshments on Friday. Pictured from front to back are Janet Kunst, George Nicoloff, Sally Green, and Amanda Zenk. 
Shove off in style with a Cadillac burial 
AURORA, Ind. (AP) -A southern Indiana woman's wish to be buried in her convertible was granted Friday when Au­rora Schuck was entombed with her red Cadillac. 
Mrs. Schuck had told her husband, Raymond, about 10 years ago that she wouldn't mind being buried with her 1976 model Cadillac, so Schuck bought 14 plots at the Riverview Cemetery for his wife's entombment. 
"It's unusual," said a spokesman for Rullman Fu­neral Home who declined to give his name. "I don't think she directed attention to herself normally. This was her hus­band." 
Mrs. Schuck, a native of Cuba, died Tuesday of cancer at age 62. She and her husband owned Schuck Plumbing & Heating. 
The Schucks, who were de­scribed as generous and civic­minded, were known for their elaborate Christmas displays at their store, but were not a flamboyant couple, the funeral home spokesman said. 
"They are super nice people and they have no children," he said. "Somewhere along the way, this was a wish that he was concerned about fulfilling for her. He asked us and I said, 'You need to check with the cemetery."' 
Terry Adams, superintendent of the cemetery, said the ceme­tery board had approved the unusual burial. 
A local construction company was hired to dig a grave large enough for the car. The Cadillac was lifted with a crane and placed into the vault, which measured 27 feet by 12 feet and was 6 feet deep, Adams said. 
A brief ceremony was planned at the funeral home Friday afternoon, with a family friend delivering the eulogy. A brief graveside service also was planned. 
"The casket is going to be placed on the back of the car. The top's down, so it will just be placed on that, across the back." 
ARTHUR 

ANDERSEN 
&g) 

--------presents..-----­
PERSONAL FINANCIAL PLANNING FOR THE NEW COLLEGE GRADUATE 
Tuesday) November 14) 1989 Hayes-Healy Auditorium 4:15p.m. Rooml22 
~ -~-----~------­

Monday, November 13, 1989The Observer 

Hordes of people strip W. Berlin shelves bare 
BERLIN (AP) -Haagen-Dazs Burger King, which had 45­
I. )BULGARIA 
ran out of icc cream bars Sun­minute lines, ran out of beer by
• New Leader: Petar Mladenov (Old 
day, a rare occurrence in early afternoon and was run­November. Burger King was ning out of food as well. out of beer by early afternoon. Westerners who wanted to 
leader stepped down on Friday) 
EJ CZECHOSLOVAKIA 
Even cash machines were empty join the party risked running 
• Oct.: 28: Thousands march for free 
as more than a million visitors short of cash. 
elections and resignation of 
swarmed through West Berlin. 
hardline leader Milos Jakes 
East Germans crossing the The automatic tellers that now-porous Berlin Wall, and dispense cash along Berlin's 
West Berliners drawn to the main streets were empty of
L!j EAST GERMANY 
impromptu international street marks. Although banks were
• New leader Egon Krenz replaces Erich Honecker 
festival, bought all the fruit and kept open to dispense the 100­
coffee available and nooded mark ($55) gifts to the visiting
• Border and Berlin Wall 
opened Friday 
businesses from pretzel stands East Germans, such services to to peep shows. Westerners were shut as usual Hordes of East Germans Sunday.
::=! HUNGARY 
grabbed everything from let­The BPrlin Red Cross brought
• New Leader, Rezsoe Nyers, 
tuce to radios, cleaning out disposable diapers and baby
chosen Oct. 7 
stores in West German cities food to linns of young families
• Governing party renounces 
communism for socialism 
and towns near the border, snaked along Berlin's major from Luebeck in the north to streets as the visitors waited Hof in Bavaria. hours for their pocket monny.
0POLAND 
City ol'ficials said nvnry cot 
• New Premier: Tadeusz Mazoweicki 
City officials, restaurantcurs and corner of emnrgcncy shel­
• Free election in June signals end of 
and shopkeepers found their tnrs was full bnforn the wnek­
communist-led government 
supplies of goods falling short, end, when well over a million but their good will appeared to visitors arrived each day. and be holding out against the on­that families appealing for a slaught. warm plaec to stay overnight Bakers rose earlier than had to be put into movie the­
• Bucks the reform trend, vows to. maintain hard-line Marxism 
usual Sunday to make extra aters. batches of pretzels and pots of The number of subway cars coffee for the chilled but hearty in service was boosted 50 per­revelers who had walked West cent, but it was jammed around 
• Continuing strife between Serbs 
Berlin's streets through the the clock. 
and ethnic Albanians 
night. Seventy special tour buses Crowds of gawking East were dispatched to shuttle the 
AP/Karl Tate, Martha P. Hernandez 
Germans filled the Leysieffer visitors along West Berlin's 
\.. Population: 16,736,000 ('89) POLAND 
f ' 
1 ·' ·., Capital: Warsaw ~\ \ . ) Population: 38,389,000 ('89) (I 
WEST \ ~)( \ GERMANY \ CZECHOSLOVAKIA (v'l .·:. Capital: Prague 2 " )'~ '· rl \q;:>opulatlon: 15,661,000('89) r .? 
"·'-,> ' /
, ) ~. I~ (' 
AUSTRIA c -\ /'-SOVIET () .:· 1 ( r:_ UNION 
(~HUNGARY /-h 
! Capital: Budapest ') ~~ ' Population: 10,571,000 ('89) 
LJ 

YUGOSLAVIA ROMANIA Capital: Belgrade Capital: Bucharest
1 Population: 23,753,000 (est.) ,Population: 23,155,000 (est.) 
(c, , .. 
'i.:.....J BULGARIA 
/ Capital: Sofia L Population:
1

\ 9,037,000 ('89) 

confectionery store and cafe in major thoroughfares, but they 
the morning, discouraging the quickly stalled in bumper-to­usual well-heeled cappuccino bumper traffic. sippers. Kurfuerstendamm, West Ber­
Hard-up E.Germans out of luck in Hamburg 
HAMBURG, West Germany East German coins. whole day," said one Klaus Meyer, a barkeeper at lin's stylish shopping boulevard, (AP) -East Germans swarmed Making use of their new shopowner. "But they don't buy the Joe Am Kudamm disco, said was finally closed to vehiclesinto Hamburg's infamous red­travel freedom, East Germans anything." 
patrons broke or stole 1,000 late Saturday because of thelight district but found out in a crammed into Hamburg sex glasses Friday. crush of pedestrians filling thehurry there were some things shops as well, leafing through Apparently many of the East The Haagen-Dazs shop on streets. Traffic resumedcommunist currency couldn't magazines, examining mer­Germans were holding onto Kurfuerstendamm street sold Sunday morning after the buy. chandise and getting a close their 100 West German marks all of its ice cream bars. overnight sea of strollnrs andlook at what they've long been -about $55 -in "welcome "Normally we sell two to window-shoppers dwindled. 
"They all want to pay with told is Western moral deca­money" for other things -like three a day at this time of year. 
aluminum money," one St. Pauli dence. buying watches and electronic Even Berlin's snamier attrac­Yesterday we sold 300," saiddistrict prostitute complained goods at shops in the same tions provnd insufficient toGeorge Shampro-Mario fromSaturday night, referring to the "It was a madhouse the area. 
meet demand.

behind the counter. 

SOPHOMORES 
Oolf 't~t .rtu.efa~/tiou.t alf!titirj to rio rlaJ<-tirj Ual(tdl" Pal"el(t~ /IIeeiel(rl 
JOIN THE JPW SOPHOMORE COMMITTEE 
Applications Now Available in the Office of Students Activities (3rd Floor Lafortune) Due Thursday, Nov. 16 by 5 P.M. 
it used to be. It remains a
Berlin 
memorial to inhumanity," West German President Richard voncontinued from page 1 Weizsaecknr said in a speech in 
ting Central Committee, chosen West Berlin's Kaiser-Willwlrn­
under Ilonecker, to resign. Gedaechtnis Church. The 
On West Berlin's fashionable church. a landmark to World 
Kurfuerstendamm avenue, War II dP.struetion, combi1ws 
about 1,000 leftists marched the bombed-out ruins of tlw old 
through the streets shouting KaisPr-Wilhelm church with a 
slogans against German reuni­modern structure. 
fication. "Winter is at the door, the 
An appeal signed by the offi­ailing have to be takPn care 
cial ;<rce German Youth move­of," von Weizsaecker said, al­
ment and representatives of the luding to the near decimation 
demorratic opposition voiced of parts of the East German 
fears about "the very existence economy and the severe short­
of our country" in the wake of age of medical personnel as a 
the massive westward stream result of the recent exodus of 
of visitors. East Gnrmans to the West. 
More than 3 million East More than 200,000 East 
Gnrmans headed West over the Germans have left East Ger­
wecknnd, while several hundred many since September. There 
thousand people made their have been reports that medical 
way to Berlin from other coun­students have been draftnd to 
tries to join a 4-day-old cele­work in hospitals to make up 
bration. for the loss of doctors and 
"The wall will never be what nurses. 
F~~...,..~£'£'~~~·:~~..~~­
~ Hey Whiskey 
~ Walker· . 
~ 
Hope you get to ~ 
~ 
' 
~ 
~ 


Turning his attention to otlwr nations. von Weizsaecker, tlw former Wr~st Berlin mayor, said: "Tiw West should lw ready to lwlp Hast Germany with open lwarts and open doors." 
lie cautioned that the West should not interfere in East Germany internally but urged the East Berlin leadership to stick to its promise of free elec­tions. 
Weizsae!'ker later went through tlw IWW Berlin Wall crossing at l'otsdamer Platz. took several st!'ps into East Berlin and exchanged a few words with some border guards as he was mobbml by hundreds of peopln. 
West Berlin Mayor Waltnr Mompnr and his East Berlin counterpart, Erhard Krack, met at the l'otsdamcr Platz. once a vibrant city eenter but now a bleak no man's land bi­sected by the Berlin Wall and flanked by concrete watchtow­ers. 
Thf~ir highly symbolic hand­shake repn~sented a start of a new era of optimism on dose­ness for the German people, although Krenz and other ofli­cials have flatly ruled out muni­fication of the countries. 
Earlier. thousands of people cheered as East German border guards used jackhammers to bore a hole in the wall at Pots­darner Platz. It was the fourth opening created in the wall since Friday. The others arc at Bernauer Strasse, Puschki­nallee, Mahlow and the Glie­necker Bridge foot-crossing. 
"It's a great day in our his­tory and the history of the world," said Torsten Fischer. 

Monday, November 13, 1989 
The Observer page 7 
Censored Georgetown paper stops publishing 

Two veterans share memories at the new Vietnam Veterans Memorial in downtown South Bend. The memorial opened on Saturday. 
ing notification of family mem­tiona! Federation of Salvadoran bers. Workers. The rebels claim the
Rebels 
Hospitals reported 197 civil­U.S.-backed government was 
continued from page 1 
ians were wounded. behind that attack that killed and 65 wounded. Guerrilla A doctor at Hospital Rosales, 10 people and wounded more deaths totaled 93 and 55 were one of the largest in the capital than 30. wounded, it said. Rebels gave of San Salvador, told The Asso­no figures on their own casual­ciated Press by telephone that "Today we are fighting ties. 156 civilians wounded by against misery, against those 
The armed forces said eight weapons and explosives had who stay in power through civilians were killed and 35 been admitted to that hospital. savagery aimed at churches, wounded. The attacks came three days universities, opposition political 
Carlos Mendoza, spokesman after the Farabundo Marti Lib­parties, guilds, unions and dis­for the Salvadoran Red Cross, eration Front vowed to inten­sident sectors," the rebel said in a telephone interview sify the insurgency, in which broadcast said. that at least 20 civilians had more than 70,000 people, been killed. mostly civilians, have been Government troops and a 
"We have identified five of the killed in a decade of fighting. tank entered El Salvador Na­bodies, but there are at least 15 In a broadcast over their tional University Sunday and whose identities we have not yet clandestine Radio Venceremos, damaged some buildings when established," he said. the guerrillas said the San Sal­they opened fire, a photogra­
Among those killed Saturday vador attacks were part of a pher said. night was a U.S. citizen who national offensive called taught at the American High "Remove the fascists, Febe Twelve students and workers School in San Salvador, accord­Elizabeth lives." were detained and taken by ing to U.S. Embassy spokesman truck to a military base, ac­Barry Jacobs. Jacobs gave no Febe Elizabeth Velazquez was cording to the photographer. details and said the victim's a union leader who perished in He said the prisoners were ac­name was being withheld pend-an Oct. 31 explosion at the Na-cused of harboring guerrillas. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Ge­orgetown University students refused to publish an edition of their newspaper Friday because officials of the Roman Catholic institution had forbidden them to run an advertisement on an abortion rights rally. 
The university's stand on the advertisement prompted swift protests from pro-choice orga­nizations and national educa­tion groups. 
"The ad was not promoting any specific service," said Karl llente, a senior who serves as the paper's managing editor. "The ad was for a pro-choice rally and was basically express­ing a political viewpoint. The newspaper's foundation is freedom of expression." 
The twice-weekly Georgetown lloya had first asked university officials to review the ad, but when the university was slow to respond, the paper's student board of directors voted on Wednesday to include the ad in Friday's edition. 
The school's dean of stu­dents, Jack deGioia, then told newspaper officials that they could not publish the issue with the ad, and the paper's board responded by voting unani­mously not to put out a paJ}er at all. 
The newspaper did print up several thousand flyers explain­ing the decision not to publish and distributed them around campus. 
"The reaction has been over­whelmingly positive," Hente said. "I got to some academic buildings, and I found that some professors had already posted them on their office doors, while others were talk­ing about it in their classes." 
Women 
r.ontinued from page 1 
dick, associate professor ·of History, are co-chairs of the committee. 
The committee was first formed during the 1988-89 school year, said Weaver. She said that normally an ad hoc committee ceases to exist at the end of the school year. "We felt strongly that unless we kept goin?,, we would lose momen­tum. 
The faculty Senate decided to reconstitute the committee for the 1989-90 school year, said Weaver. 
"The Committee on the Status of Women at Notre Dame was, and still is, concerned with helping the University establish an environment where all mem­bers of its community can be 
The American Association of University Professors, which was meeting on Georgetown's campus, issued a statement supporting the students' deci­sion not to publish. The resolu­tion was also endorsed by the United States National Student Association, the Association of American Colleges, and several other education groups. 
"We are a Catholic, Jesuit in­stitution, and we don't allow advertisements of condoms, abortions or things like that," said Georgetown spokesman Gary Krull. "Basically it was an interpretive question between the dean of students -the pa­per's publisher -and the stu­dent editorial board." 
The rally, which will be held Sunday at the Lincoln Memo­rial, is designed to build sup­port for family planning and a woman's right to an abortion. 
N a tiona! Organization for Women president Molly Yard, whose organization is sponsor­ing the event, chastised George­town. 
''I'm kind of horrified that any university would deny free speech," Yard said. "That they are afraid to allow open dia­logue ... isn't a very good teaching example to a group that is there to get an educa­tion." 
Hente said that the newspa­per would accept -and try to publish -any other advertise­ments submitted in the future for rallies or forums sponsored by groups like NOW. 
"We're not out for publicity," Hente said. "We just want to publish, but this is something we take very seriously." 
most productive," states the report. 
"Concerns of women are also shared by men on campus, be­cause equitable treatment of all members of our community is a matter of moral principle, and the shared responsibility of us all," according to the report. 
The committee worked dur­ing the year 1988-89 to gather data. At the Faculty Senate meeting of May, 1989, the committee presented its report and the following resolution was passed by a vote of 33 in favor, one opposed, one absten­tion: 
•Whereas the ad hoc commit­
tee on the Status of Women has concluded that there are signifficant problems in the recruit­ment and retention of wome on this campus (including stu dents, graduate students, staff and faculty); 
•whereas a survey of deoart­

'i'~!tO)'&~ A,f;:;:'~I1'L't~t0:L-<::: <IS\!£ 91:?1~*-~~llil~Ull-1?:~1"-. ~l!!li!L' ,,I;L,J;]fOit"t'lli!JI<:-9. l!i~ A.-I;: t <IS t.d:; /j.O)-;n[:r£~fJ{, '-1\L,;I..,-t?:-~:a:i!\J £ 9.Za~~20)~\J. B<$:£C'0)2~· t~•~~O).:Y)E<:-9. B<$::r£~c-~m:a: 1i\-~9.Q ~t,:-t~ .. '';: t1.1!~~~;1!;1t£1t 
A,. 

mental chairs across the cam­pus has concluded that there are significant problems con­cerning the status of women that need to be addressed ... ; 
•whereas 
women constitute a small proportion of the mem­bership of major University committees ... ; and 

•whereas 
Sister John Miriam Jones, who as formerly the sta­tus of women on this campus has recently resigned; 


"Be it resolved that the Fac­ulty Senate urges that there be established in the Fall of 1989 a standing University Commit­tee on the Status of Women" with elected representatives from various constituencies, according to the report. 
" ... and be it further resolved that the Senate urges the Uni­versity to hire a person (preferably in a position at the level of associate provost) at this University whose specific 
(~.E. 1"-P'J3) i51JO:r£~(25U)O)IJI.BJl~. ;tt 
(,(f;:@J}jl)l!ijlt (~~) =*OOO):*:~&UC:*:~IllH: 1991 ~6 fl if< 1: f;:$~ (Bachelor ~J.lO)~Jil:lll11~)'f)EO)fB~!t
<•m > t51Joi!!!:M 

~~£1:0)ft~-~2~-~-00~·-~~t~ l'H±"t'-$fl.HH't~ L £9, Gli~fJ,€>1<1 $ 500, 00 ~fJ\6 1<1 ¥ 20,000£ c-:a:~~'f)E) <il$l,J6h • m..,~\-€in-tt> 
-t?:l~*-~**± f*!'llfftitr•~$Oinio t.!l.~/ii;#(9fJH') • ~-(~ ~ ?) Phone 1-800-537-2186(Toll free) £t~f;J: 03-234-5071 
-1?:1~*-~U.S.A. NY:>t7-<:A H!~/iiJII (;tfJ{h) 

Phone 212-986-5520(9:00-17:00) )ll<:lJL;j( ·NY ;II: ±, B f;J:Il*; <o 
duties include overseeing the recruitment and especially the retention of women," states the report. 
The executive committee of the Faculty Senate met with University President Father Edward Malloy, University Vice President Father William Beauchamp and Provost Ti­mothy O'Meara. 
A report on the Faculty Sen­ate Committee on the Status of Women was presented, and the request was made for the establishment of a University Committee on the Status of Women. 
According to Weaver and Biddick the response of the President and Provost was positive, but they asked for a survey of what peer institutions have done in this regard and for a recommendation which would clearly specify the charge to such a committee. 
The committee worked through the summer to gather information which resulted in 
the report presented to the Academic and Faculty Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees on October 26, 1989. The report made several rec­ommendations and also sug­gested agenda items for the Standing Committee, if formed. 
John Caron, chair of the Aca­demic and Faculty Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees, said "It was a very well prepared and well pre­sented report." 
He said that he believed that the report was well received by the committee. "I think the Administration is concerned and aware of the problems." 
The Academic and Faculty Affairs Committee discussed the specific recommendations made by the Committee on the Status of Women. He said his committee will be discussing possible solutions to the prob­lems as the recommendations in the report may not be the best solutions. 



Business
_M_o_n_da~y~·--N_o_ve_m__be_r__13_._1_9_a_9__________________________________________________________________________________ page a 
T-shirt sales continue, but within regulations 

Nov. 13 "How the Family is Changing:
ffJ [}[] w!l!l0& 
8pm a Conservative Viewpoint• 
RIGHTS AMENDMENT 
~!l!lO~ 

FOUNDER AND PRESIDENT OF THE 
FOR THE FEMINIST MAJORITY 
LED A NATIONWIDE CAMPAIGN FOR THE RATIFICATION OF THE EQUAL RJGl-ITS AMENDMENT 
Speaking Wednesday Nov. 15 
"The Changing Roles of Women Library auditorium 8pm 
in Society: 

co-sponsored by The Year of the Family Committee 
1Jw r.hnnging Roles of Men & Women in Society STl'DENT Ut:JON IIO'.RD 
and The Dept. of Gender Studies 
By VICTOR CUCINIELLO 
Business Writer 
Last year the Notre Dame's 

administration cracked down 
on the illegal t-shirt making 
businnss in response to tllH ex­
ceedingly large number of t-· 
shirts being sold on campus. 
Tlw t-shirt sales were not only 
illegal, but started to cut into 
the profits of t-shirts sold in 
tlw Hammes Bookstorn and at 
the Pro shop. 
Individuals were making money on the Notre Dame name without following certain procedurns set down by the administration to sell t-shirts on campus. At the same time Notn~ Dame was involved in a legal suit against Umbrella Graphics for trademark in­fringnmnnts. These events led the administration to ban the saln of illegal t-shirts on cam­pus and required all students to go through an approval process and abide by certain rules and rngulations. 
According to Brennan Harvath, a junior, who is cur­rently soiling University ap­proved t-shirts on campus, the first step involved in selling a succnssful t-shirt is to gennrate an original idea. After the idea has b1wn developed it should be brought to Joseph Cassidy, di­rnctor of Student Activities, for his approval beforn any pro­duction is started. The t-shirt can not be produced for per­sonal profit. but must be affili­ated with some organization on 

NAMED BY THE ONE OF THE 25 WOMEN IN THE 
LED THE BATTLE 

campus for the purpose of 
raising money for dorms, activ­
ities or a particular class. The 
shirt must be in good taste in 
order for it to be approved. 
After the t-shirt is approved 
by the Student Activities Board. 
it must be taken to the book­
store to get final approval. 
Harvath said. The hookstore 
has exclusive rights to the 
Notre Dame name which en­
compasses the use of the fol­
lowing names, phrases, and 
symbols: ND, Leprechaun. 
Shamrork, Fighting Irish, the 
Dome. and the Notre Dame 
Crnst. A student may use any 
one of these logos on their t­
shirts, but must acquirn per­
mission beforehand, said 
llarvath. 

When the design of the t-shirt has been approved. the t-shirt can bn producnd and marketed for sale. According to Harvath the plans for the t-shirt are brought to a printing company to bn produced. Harvath said, " about 288 t-shirts must be produced in order to keep the cost of the t-shirt under six dollars each." This cost in­eludes any artwork needed. t­shirts, and the screens used to create the prints. The produc­tion process usually lasts about a we1~k and is returned to the student ready for sale, said Harvath. 
According to the University policy. the t-shirts can be sold at concession stands. in dining 
WORLD ALMANAC AS MOST INFLUENTIAL WORLD 
TO DEFEAT THE EQUAL 
halls, and at the Alumni Senior Club. However, there is one written rule that must be ad­hered to-that is the t-shirt must sell itself. No one is allowed to hold or wave a t-shirt in order to entice people to buy it, said Harvath. 
There are several marketing techniques that student en­trepreneurs use to promote the sale of t-shirts, Harvath said. One common method is to run advertisements in the various student publications distributed around campus. Another way to increase the availability of the t-shirts is to offer a deliv­ery service for those who want to order by phom~ or don't have money upfront to purchase the t-shirt. Also, in order to attract Pf~ople to help sell and dis­tribute the t-shirts Harvath of­f~red them a discount on the sale price. Harvath also sold his sweatshirts to the Notre Dame cheerleaders with "cheerleader" running down the sleeves. He gave them a dis­count as well provided they wore them at all their practices. 
In order to combat the stu­dent demand for illegal t-shirts, Harvath and other sellers have resorted to selling their t-shirts through the Alumni Association. Harvath said, "Sellers are up against students buying illegal t-shirts. They buy them just for the sheer thrill of buying something illegal and wearing 'colorful' t-shirts for conversational purposes. 

. The Observer/ Gerard Watson 
Jumor, Jennifer Linting sells University "approved" t-shirts on South Quad before the SMU last Saturday. The profits on the sale of the shirts are for the Junior Class. 


Viewpoi~t
Monday, November 13, 1989 page 9 

P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly 

Managing Editor Business Manager Regts Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager .... Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor .Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager . .Alison Cocks Accent Editor . John Blast Systems Mgr .Bernard Brenntnkmeyer Photo Editor .. Enc Batley OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor .Chnsttne Gill Controller .Anne Ltndner 
The Observer ts the tndependent n(lwspaper published by the students of the Untverst­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Satnf Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the pol­
•ctes of the admtntstratton of etther tnstttution The news ts reponed as accurately and ob­Jecttvely as posstble Unstgned editorials represent the optnton of the maJority of the followtng. Edttor-tn-Chte1. Managtng Editor. Executive News Edttor. Viewpotnt Editor. Spons Edttor. Accent Editor. Photo Edttor. Satnt Mary's Edttor. Commentanes, letters. and the lnstde Column present the views of thetr authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expresston of varying opintons on campus. through letters. is encouraged 

Gender issues concern our day to day lives 
Gender issues. What in the tively) simple solutions, others crimination may simply be a dren? Can a well-educated, in­world docs this topic have to do Julie Scharfenberg have no clear-cut answers. lack of understanding or misin-telligent woman find respect with me, an average student? I Family and Gender Issues Week formation. Family and Gender and satisfaction as a home­don't see any big problems Ideas and Issues will not attempt to provide an-Issue:> Week is not an attempt maker? Why does it seem that with sex discrimination. Be­swers but will instead present to iJtdoctrinate the student women rarely advance to CEO sides, the Notre Dame less-qualified woman a job over different viewpoints so that we body with any particular set of positions in firms? Is it right male/female ratio is now al-a more-qualified man is an un­can evaluate, change, or solidify ideas; it is a practical discus-for a better-qualified male law most even. sound idea. our own opinions. sion of issues that will become school applicant to be rejected 
But the term "gender issues" Many of us are not really Being aware of gender issues ever more important to all of in favor of a less-qualified fe­docs not mean war of the sexes aware of gender issues right does not require a person to us as . we progress through male? or sex discrimination. It is not here on campus. I know I had get up on a soapbox or go out school and go out into the real Whatever your answers to just about political questions no idea until I began working on the picket lines. It implies a world. these questions, your opinions like affirmative action and day on the Student Union Board, 1 thoughtful approach to every-It may be hard for many of us are welcome at the ~ care policy. We deal with gen­which this week is sponsoring I day problems and a considera-to see the importance of gender ~eek events. ----­der issues every ..!iat_in elass, at Family and Gender Issues tion of the opposite sex. Both issues right now, but when we Julie Scharfenberg is a junior ~plying to~ate Week. Stereotypes of men and men and women should be open begin our careers and families government and economics::ana intervie'Wl!!.g fw:_ women at Notre Dame, Notre to the opinions and feeling!' of such issues will become critical. major and a member of the 
Jobs. We don't have to be femi­Dame/Saint Mary's relations, each other so misunderstand-For instance, is a dual career SUB Ideas and Issues Commis­nists or chauvinists to think se­eating disorders, and inelusive r ings can be avoided. What may marriage incompatible with sion, sponsors of the Ideas and riously about them. Whether language (especially in aca­be tagged by some as sex dis-raising happy and fulfilled chi!-Issues column. our views are conservative, demic departments) are just progressive, or middle-of-the­some of the issues that.regu­
LETTERS

road, it doesn't matter. What is larly impact the lives of stu­important is that we are all dents. Student Union Board focuses on family/gender issues 
well-informed. One of the most important! 
Dear Editor: Former President of the Na­Each of these events is free,Gender issues are not about problems is campus security. 
The Ideas and Issues com­tional Organization for Women and each requires only abouthelping women at the expense Because women are inherently 
mission of the Student Union Eleanor Smeal, who supports an hour of time. Though weof men or putting down one sex more vulnerable than men to Board will be sponsoring Fam­legal abortion and the feminist realize that four events cannotat the expense of the other. In rape and physical attack, cam­ily/Gender Issues Week from agenda, will speak on Wednes­possibly cover the entire spec­fact. radical feminism often pus security should be espe­Nov. 13 to 16. The week will be day, Nov. 15. trum of issues involved, weharms its own cause by alienat­cially alert to their needs. For 
ing so many people that no one instance, many women are now an attempt to discuss the issues On Tuesday, Nov. 14, Notre hope that our attempts to in­facing us all in this time of Dame and Saint Mary's stu­volve the Notre Dame/Saint
is willing to seriously consider afraid to walk back to their proposals to solve gender dorms from the library or the changing gender roles and the dents are invited to discuss Mary's community in this ongo­problems. Questions relating to Rock at night. A few more effects these changes will have their views, complaints, and ing dialogue will be beneficial 
on the family. solutions at an informal forum. to all.
gender roles and the place of lights along the sidewalks could 
The conservative Phyllis On Thursday, Nov. 16, a panel Tony Lang men and women in soeiety must contribute to their security. 
Schlafly, who opposed the discussion about the conflict SUB Ideas and Issuesbe looked at from both sides. While some problems, surh a, 
Equal pay for equal work is a seeurity, have concrete and rel­Equal Rights Amendment, will between career and family will Commissioner be held. Nov. 12, 1989
sensible proposal, but giving a atively (and I emphasize rela-speak on Monday, Nov. 13. 
Grace Period targets problems faced by South Africa 
Dear Editor: University spokesperson on Don't miss this opportunity to 
We all know about the prob­South Africa; Mr. Jon Paul get informed about the prob­lems confronting South Africa. Checkett, head of the ND Anti­lems of South Africa and what But most of us feel we don't Apartheid Network; Professor they may mean to you. Hope to 
know enough and so remain Lee Tavis, C.R. Smith Professor see you at the Grace Hall Pit, uninvolved about one of the of Business Administration; Mr. tonight at 8:00 p.m. most important social issues in Gary Sugarman, South African our world today. graduate student; Professor Craig Gundersen, 
Some of the foremost experts Anand Pillay, Department of Grace Hall on South Africa at Notre Dame Mathematics; and Professor Intellectual Life Committee have agreed to join us as pan­Peter Walshe, Director of John Austin elists in the second Grace Pe­African Studies in the Depart-Coordinator riod: Father Oliver Williams, ment of Government and Inter-2nd Grace Period C.S.C., Associate Provost and national Studies. Nov. 12. 1989 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 


'The most beautiful thing in the world is the conjunction of learning and inspiration.' 
Wanda Landowski 
(1879-1959) 
---~-------~---------­
Viewpoint 
Monday, November 13, 1989
page 10 

LETTERS 

Superficial media frustrates·comprehension of Middle East issues 
Dear Editor: World Awareness Series is 
With the advent of television sponsoring a week of events fo­journalism, the popular mndia cusing on the cultural, social, has sought to distill complex religious and political charac­issues into short clips that can teristics of the Middle East. be comprehended by the sup­The World Awareness Series, posedly short attention span of a program of Notre Dame stu­the American mind. From abor­dent government, aims at tion slogans to Presidential ereating opportunities for the campaigns of "sound bites" and Notre Dame eommunity to patriotic: images, Americans deepen their understanding of suffer from the superficiality world issues. The series and the associated distortion of eonsists of a number of focus information. weeks, each dedicated to 
exploring a particular issue 
The Middle East is one region through lectures, discussions, of th1~ world whieh has been movies and a traditional meaL particularly over-simplified. Lecturers for World Awareness Jlow many Americans imagine programs are experts on the a nwnting of slwiks, wearing issue of each focus week. bathrobes and dishtowels on Foreign students and their heads, determining the partieipants in Foreign Studies priee of oil and the length of programs are also sought for lines at the gas station when their insights. In both cases Saudi Arabia is mentioned? most resource people are I low many Americans recall the members of the Notre Dame 

Iranians as frothing fanaties community. The first World 1948, on Tuesday, Nov. 14 in Middle Eastern meal aceompa­North Dining Hall on Friday, burning effigies of Carter? llow Awareness focus week featured 124 Hayes-Healey. On Wednes­nied by an informal discussion Nov, 17 at 6:30 pm. many Americans understand China's history and culture and day, Nov. 15 at 8:00 pm, Pro­with students who participated In addition to the various the intifada exclusively as a the Chinese pro-democracy fessor Patrick Gaffney, C.S.C. in the Jerusalem Foreign Stud­events of Middle East Week, stn~et brawl between Pales­movement. will speak on "Islam: Religion ies program last semester. The readers of The Observer will tinian youths throwing stones and Social Force in an Age of students will display their find a series of Viewpoint arti­and combat-ready Israeli Middle East Week begins Nation-States" in the Mont­travel photos and Arabic and cles written by students who troops? llow many Americans tonight with two short films, gomery Theater of LaFortune. Jewish cultural artifacts. participated in the .Jerusalem picture the Jews of Israel "Introduction to the Arab Professor Alan Dowty will pre­Heservations for dinner must Foreign Studies Program last wearing blaek robes, prayer World" and "Israel: The Story sent "The Arab-Iraeli Conflict: be made in advance with the semester. shawls. and constantly bobbing of the Jewish People" at 7:30 An Israeli Perspective" on student government secretary while saying prayers at the pm in the Library Auditorium. Thursday, Nov. 16 at 7:00 pm on the second floor of LaFor­
"The Arab-Israeli Confliet: A
Western Wall? in the Montgomery Theater of tune. The eost will be $2.50 for Palestinian Perspective" will be LaFortune. students with a meal plan Charlie Maher 
In an effort to seek under­the subject of a talk by Dr. Raj­(bring your ID) and $8.00 for Chairman standing beyond superficial as Busailah, a Palestinian Finally, the week will be all other people. The dinner will World Awareness ."ieries 
refugee born in Israel before
levels, the student government capped off with a traditional be held in the Blue room of NO/I. 10. 19R9 
Alternatives other than affirmative action may help end discrimination 
necessarily espouse affirmative excnllence and accomplishment
Dear Hditor: Johnson which provided federal nation as it exists in our sod1•ty
action as the best plan to ae-
I would likn to comment on impetus seeing that the provi­in one's ehosen livelihood with is really the !'umulativn effect of thn article "We must aet affir­sions of' Title VII of the Civil complish racial equality in our the only barrier in lifp one's individual ehoiees we make. matively for racial equality" by Hights Act of 1964 prohibiting nation; he or she may support a own level of ernativity and hard Thus, it is liknly that naeh of us Paul Pnralnz published in The discrimination on the basis of different plan, if one exists. work. Is it possible to achieve can do more to further racial Observer on Nov. 1. I was race, color, creed, or national If we are to deeide rightly this end of racial equality with equality and end discrimination encouraged as I n~ad through origin were carried out about the issue of affirmative a mechanism which is inlwr­by making racial equality true the first paragraph of Mr. (discrimination on the basis of action, it seems to me that we ently diseriminatory? for our own lives and for tiHJsl' Peralnz's commentary, but the sex was prohibited in an should be aware of all possible Despite the gaseous nature of with whom we meet than ean bl' further I read. the more amending exeeutive order in alternatives-if they exist-pro­most of Mr. Peralez's commen­aecomplislwd by any judicial or disappointed I became at the 1967). posed to aecomplish racial tary. he did providn us with one lngislative formula. lack of substance of Mr. Initially, this executive order equality. From Mr. Peralez's firm handle onto which we can l'nralez's arguments. applied to eertain government account, it is affirmative action hold, namely, that "Affirmative Douglas McAbee 
Mr. Peralez stated his thesis contractors and required them or nothing. Aetion"should be given a new Assistant Professor in the first paragraph: " ... the to implement "affirmative ae­Mr. Peralez states that affir­and more individual perspee­Department of /Jiological time has come to reaffirm our tion plans." Since then1 the um­mative action is " ... the most ef­tive. I could not agree more. Sci en res commitment to one of the most brella of this order has evolved feetive and just way for rectify­Racial inequality and discrimi-Nov. 6. l9R9 effective renwdies to past injus­and now extends over state and ing the gross inequities of the tices against minorities: Affir­local governments as well as past." Unfortunately, he pro­mative Action." Unfortunately, institutions receiving federal vides no evidence that affirma­the rest of his article shed no monies, such as our university. tive action has indeed been an light on the validity of this A complicating factor is that "effective" remedy. By what strong contention. unlike Title· VII, the executive standard are we to measure 
Even though Mr. Peralez orders regarding affirmative "effeetiveness?" Due to the im­spent a good deal of space re­action laid down in the 1960's mediate goal of affirmative ac­minding us of the past and pre­and 1970's did not contain ex­tion as it was initially con­sent difficulties of minorities, I plicit prohibitions against pref­ceived, the most direet measure think it is fair to say that most erential or "quota hiring" and of success or failure would be sensitive people are aware of required that contractors take to examine employee ratios to the frightful economic and legal "affirmative action" to ensure see if they more closely reflect plight of many non-whites in equal employment opportuni­the raeial percentages found in our country and readily agree ties. the local work force. that grave and horrid injustices Thus, employers walk a fine From the tenor of his article, have been done to Blacks, line. On one hand, they risk Mr. Peralez' measure of Hispanics, Orientals, an Native being sued-not wrongly-by "effectiveness" apparently is to Americans during the course of minorities if they do not fully see if the economic and social our country's history. At issue comply with the affirmative ac­standing of minorities in our is whether or not affirmative tion guidelines. On the other society as a whole has im­Dear Editor: ter craftsman at the Connick action as a national poliey is hand, they also risk being sued proved, a somewhat less direct It was with great sadness Studios for many years. These the means of choice whereby by whites for "reverse discrimi­measure than the other men­that I learned of the senseless studios only recently closed these injustices can be reetified nation" if their extensive action tioned above. damage of the Dillon Hall after continuously producing and prevented from recurring. to recruit minorities constitutes The "justness" of affirmative Chapel stained glass windows. stained glass windows sinee 
What exactly is Affirmative preferential hiring or mainte­action claimed by Mr. Peralez is Although originally reported as 1911. In fact, I had only just Action? I doubt if most people nance of a racial "quota," ac­an arguable point as well. In the incidental result of a last week invited Orin Skinner, have anything more than a vul­tions explicitly prohibited in the strictest sense, affirmative "traditional" snowball fight, the director of the studios who gar, shadowy notion as to what Title VII of the Civil Rights Act. action is not "just" since it re­closer examination shows that is now 97 years old and very Affirmative Action is; at least It would appear, therefore, quires one to discriminate be­the windows were broken as active in the Connick Founda­sueh was the case with me. Un­that affirmative action was a tween individuals based on pre­the result of direct and deter­tion to visit South Bend and to fortunately, Mr. Peralez did not scheme devised to help imple­sumably irrelevant externals. mined hits by large rocks. see the windows in the Dillon provide his readers with a defi­ment the goals of Title VII of This may or may not necessar­That such acts of destruction Hall Chapel. nition. the Civil Rights Act of 1964, ily be a bad thing. All of us could occur is extremely dis­How can I now explain to him 
I am not an expert on the and accordingly, is not identical aspire to live in a society which heartening. Even more disturb­what happened on the campus subject, but from my own lim­to, but separate from the Civil is "color-blind" in terms of ing to me is the fact that the a few weeks ago? ited reading I found that Rights Act itself. Thus, it is im­economic and social status, broken windows were finely Affirmative Action apparently portant to emphasize that a where one's position in life and crafted by the world famous Charles S. Hayes '65 is a plan instituted in 1965 by strong supporter of the Civil society is based not on external Charles Connick Studios of South Bend an executive order of President Rights Act of 1964 may not appearance but on merit, on Boston. I have known the mas-Nov. 6, 1989 


--------~~----------------------------------------------------------------.--------------------------------------..~ 
Accent
Monday, November 13, 1989 
'Living DOlls' is a living nightmare 
I 
t used to be that network ex­ecutives saw such potential Joe Bucolo in a To be continued certain character on a program that they spun that person off into his own series. These days, it seems that the networks arc in such a scramble to keep viewers, they have lost all sense of quality in their programming. "Living Dolls" is living proof of this trnnd. 


Airing at 8:30p.m. on Saturdays, ABC's "Living Dolls" is a spinoff of the smash hit. "Who's the Boss?" What? Don't recognize any of the characters? That's okay; no one else docs, either. :Living Dolls" is as closely related to "Who's the Boss?" as Hans and Franz are to Sehwarz1mngger. During one Ppisodc of "Who's the Boss?" Samantha (Alyssa Milanol intl~rviewed four models for a twwspapPr article and these four arc the stars of the new show. 
The four models are Emily (Halle Bnrryl. tlw smart one, Carolinc (DPborah Tucknrl. the arrogant om1, Charlie (Leah HPminil. the streetwise one, and Martha (Alison ElliotO. the innocent one. They live together in an apartment owned by Trish Carlin (Michael Learned) who runs a modelling agency. Also on the scene is Trish's son Hick (David "Big" Moscow). Sound a little like "The Facts of Life?" 
Each episode deals with the ups and downs in the lives of the four beautiful models. There arn boy problems and family problems and boy problems and school problems and more boy problems. or course, whatever the problem, it's resolved in half an hour. 
If the premise seems trite, the characters are worse. These are girls whom audiences have seen time and time again. Their lives are even more predictable. Caroline says, "If God wa"nted me to be free on weekends, lie would've made me ugly." Charlie plays along by suggesting, "Hulk Hogan couldn't carry your makeup case." That's okay; even Michael Learned can't carry this show. 
In one episode, Charlie, sad­dened by the fact that her mother forgot her birthday, throws a party at Tony Miceli's (Tony Danza) house when he's away. "Does Jello jiggle?" Caroline asks. Charlie replies, "Not as good as you, that's why you're in charge of the guys." ''I'm having a hard time with this whole chip thing," says Martha (she's the innocent one, remember) after Charlie puts her in charge of the party's food. If viewers close their eyes, they would have a difficult time telling if they were watching "Living Dolls," "Just the Ten of Us," or "The Facts of Life." 

Rick adds a touch of genuine humor to the show. When he hears the models using large words, he says, "You models have been reading again, haven't you?" Later, while planning a party with Trtsh who thinks Charlie has plans for the weekend, Rick says, "Really? There's nothing about that in her diary." This sarcas­tic humor is quite refreshing in the midst of the otherwise dull dialogue. 
Another problem is that the show is trying desperately to make up for "lost time." In other words, writers, who rec­ognize the non-existent ties be­tween "Living Dolls" and "Who's the Boss?" try to rem­edy the situation with frequent guests appearances by "Boss" cast members. This mistake is a double edged sword. It not only makes evident the fact that the writers don't think the show can make it without these guests, but also greatly stunts the development of the "Dolls" characters since so much time is given to "Boss" regulars. 
The show's only saving grace is Michael Learned. Winner of four Emmy awards for her per­formances on 'The Waltons" and "Nurse," Learned is a gen­uinely talented and well-sea­soned actress; however, her part is very small and her lines are mediocre. Instead of using Learned's excellence to the show's advantage, producers shove her off to the side. 
"Living Dolls" is a doll house of disaster. Poor acting and equally dismal scripts plague the trite premise on which the show bases itself. These dolls need to be re-dressed, re-de­fined, and re-developed if "Living Dolls" is ever to be any­thing but a living nightmare. 
page 11 

PoPQulz: Questions you'd ·like to ask 
P 
op Quiz! Put those 
pencils down and relax, this one's easy. The questions all concern real life, 

and we give you the an­swers. What could be more fair? 
1} You are a member of student government, and there are a string of serial killings on campus. What is your response to stop the deaths? 
(Answer: A good non-adversarial student government ap}lroach would be to put banners on all the dorms reading: "MURDER: Is it a good idea?") 
2) You're in the dining hall, and the food server asks, "What would you like?" 
(Answer: "Well, I'd like something fit for human consumption, please.") 
ATTENTION FOODSERVICE PEOPLE: I am not really griping about the food. I think you do a fine job and richly deserve your culinary awards, so please don't get mad at me and spit in my food when I'm not looking. (Although that might provide it with that extra-special zesty tang it so desperately cries out for.) 
3) It's a football weekend, and a plaid-clad alum walks up to you and asks, "Can you tell me how to get to the bookstore?" 
(Answer: "Yes, but wouldn't you really rather find it on your· own and savor the thrill of discovery?") 
4) What's the surest way of getting an "A" on my paper? 
(Answer: Before handing it in, staple a twenty dollar bill to the end of it and cite President Jackson in the bibliography.) 
5) Your roommate has no early classes; as your alarm goes off at 7:15p.m. you hear him laugh, roll over and continue snoring. It really annoys you to see him sleeping soundly even after you get back from your incredibly dull 8 a.m. lecture class. What can you do to preserve your sanity? 
(Answer: It's so sim­ple, you might not have seen it. Your roommate must die. Kill him with a large blunt object. 
7) Why is this column called "Lion Taming?" 
(Answer: Wouldn't you like to know.) 
8) "I loved the DART video; 
lan Mitchell Lion Taming 
will they be making it into a series for national television?" 
(Answer: Not if there is a just and loving God.) 
9) What happened to question number six? 
(Answer: Hey buddy, aren't you taking this just a tad too seriously?) 
10) Short answer question. You're in the dining hall, and you'd like to meet an attractive member of the opposite sex. Knowing that sometimes the amazing coincidence that two people in the dining hall are both eating food is the only basis for starting a conversation, formulate an opening line and the probable response. 
(Answer: You: "Say, isn't this food terrible, ha, ha?" 
Her: (Obviously thrown into near violent fits of passion by such overwhelming wit.) "Enough of this small talk, you sexual machine; I want you like I've never wanted any man be­fore. Take me now. Let me be your love slave and cater to your every desire, master." 
But, then again, remember to expect the worst; even a brilliant ice-breaker question can result in disaster. The following answer is equally accept­able: 
You: "Say, isn't this food terrible, ha, ha?'' Her: "Get away from me, you drooling sex fiend! I 

. have mace in my purse and my insanely jealous boyfriend, Bubba 'Bonecrusher' Smith, who, incidentally, could sniT? your neck like a toothptck, is right behind you." Mr. Smith: "Bubba kill funny man NOW!" Yes, humor is a dangerous business, best left to trained professionals. So kids. please don't try this your·., If. Now where was I?) 
Spt···ml Bonus Rhetorical Section: 
1) Why is there no "g" on the end of the word fightin'? 
2) What is the meatless cheeseburger? Where does it come from? What does it want? 
3) Why won't Geraldo Rivera go away? 
4) Who is the mysterious "fifth dentist" who refuses to recommend sugarless gum for his patients who chew gum? 
5) And hey, how was your break? 


-~-· --~--~------·--~-------­
Monday, November 13, 1989
page 12 The Observer 

Pistons glad to be back after losing on the road 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. al the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds 
NOTICES  LOST: Two Cross Pens bearing the AT&T logo. One lost on 10116 in room 122 Hayes Healy, other lost in  MIAMITIX for sale plus plane tic  PERSONALS  A Texan and a Padre-­What a marvelous world of God's unique creatures!! Thank you for  If you need copies you need THE COPY SHOP THE COPY SHOP  
LaFortune. Have sentimental value. If  john 1700  
 thelesson in celebrating our  THE COPY SHOP  
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 237-1949 WORDPROCESSING 272-8827 Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 237-1949 WORDPROCESSING 272·8827 THANKSGIVING SERVICE PROJECT: Join other students working at a shelter for the home­less in Chicago. Call Jim Cabot @ 277·9198 or Mike Affeck@ 239-7943.  found please call Joe@ 3804: REWARD LOST I LOST MY WATCH IN C1 ON THUR. NOVEMBER 9 BETWEEN 9:00 AND 9:30A.M. I'LL PAY A REWARD. CALL STEVE AT 289-9710. LOST I LOST MY WATCH IN C1 ON THUR. NOVEMBER 9 BETWEEN 9:00 AND 9:30A.M. I WILL GLADLY PAY A REWARD. CALL STEVE AT 289-9710. WANTED MIDWAY AIRLINES CAMPUS REP  for info SEE NO BEAT MIAMI !I !I! FOR 2 LOW PRICED PLANE TIX-CALL# 4923 HOME STEREO system for sale. YAM AHA R-5 receiver, YAMAHA CD player and POLK AUDIO JR 5 speakers. Quality system for only $675 or best offer. Call 291-2918. AIRLINE TICKET SO.BEND TO ORLANDO ROUND TRIP NOV. 18-27.$180.00.291-5857  Big 4 Classic December2 Sponsored by Soph. Class nx and Transportation $35 Available in Soph. Class Office ADOPTION, A LOVING ALTERNATIVE. 81 L ALUM WISHES TO ADOPT AN INFANT. LOVING HOME, CERTIFIED TO ADOPT, EXPENSES PAID. CAN BE CONFIDENTIAL OR OPEN. IF YOU OR SOMEONE YOU KNOW IS CONSIDERING ADOPTION, CALL MIKE & JEAN COLLECT AT 602-482­0905.  differences. Peace! Bass player needed for hard rock band. Call Vu X180 or Glenn X3064. Scott Mainwaring for president! WIN A VCR! ANYONE CAN WIN I TICKETS ON SALE FOR $1 AT THE SENIOR/ALUMNI CLUB AND SENIOR CLASS OFFICES. OTHER PRIZES INCLUDE GIFT CERTIFICATES AT LOCAL RESTAURANTS. DRAWING NOV. 15. LENNY'S WHERE DOMERS MEET. NOW OFFERING PIZZA,  THE COPY SHOP THE COPY SHOP in the basement of LaFortune the boy from Tamp thanks Laura Stanton for the football ticket...Stay off the pool tabies Laura CHICAGO! CHICAGO! CHICAGO' NOVEMBER 15...$12 LEAVE LEMANS CIRCLE 7:30pm RETURN 1:30am (N.D. TIME) FOR TICKETS CALL: LISA 284-5196, ANN 277·4954 AMY 284·5133 CHICAGO! CHICAGO! CHICAGO!  
TEXTBOOKS BOUGHT AND SOLD Pandora's Books corner of N.D. ave and Howard 233-2342 lots of paperbacks in stock!  . Salary and limited free passes. . Promote travel among student organizations. . Possible full-time employment upon graduation. Send resume to: Pat Stamper MIDWAY AIRLINES SALES DEPT. 5959 S. Cicero  TICKETS I'll buy any tickets for any home game, or Miami. call JEFF at 239-3714, leave a message. Thanks.  Now hiring technicians to operate professioal Sound System. Some experience required, additional training provided. Inquire at the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune. Or call 239· 7308.  DELl SAI'JD . BURGERS, BEER. MONDAY NiL.: 'T FOOTBALL 50 CENT DRAFTS. TO MARYANN I LOVE YOU VERY MUCH, MIKEY WATCH THE GAME AT LENNY'S DAILY DRINK AND FOOD SPECIALS.  
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. TYPING term papers/reports/letters/resumes Pick up & delivery available. 277-5134 10am-8pm Wordprocessing, call Marge 239·6347 LOST/FOUND FOUND: WATCH IN THE HEISBURGH PARKING LOT CALL DORTHY @ 239-6640 18 K necklace with charms lost--· Please return to Stephanie @ 284­4431 Found: a lady's ring between North dining hall and Cavanaugh on November 7. Call Katie to identify at #48281' $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ LOST AND NEEDS TO BE FOUND!!!f!!!!llflll JOHN CARLIN WANTS HIS SCAPULA WITH VERY IMPORTANT MEDALLION ATTACHED LOST TWO SUNDAYS AGO ON STEPAN FIELD DURING FOOTBALL GAME.HUGE MONEY PRIZES DO THE DEED AND CALL ME  Chicago, IL 60638 Need ride to Hartford/NYC area for Thanksgiving leave 22NOV return 26 NOV call Chuck #2388 OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo. Summer, Yr. round, All Countries, All fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO BX 52­Corona Del Mar CA 92625 ATTENTION-HIRING! Government jobs -your area. $17,840-$69,485. Call 1-602-838-8885. Ext. R-6262. COUCH or LOVE SEAT NEEDED. IF U HAVE 1 TO SELL, CALL x3609. FOR SALE 1-WAY TICKET FROM SB TO DALLAS/FORT WORTH. LEAVES DEC 22.FEMALE ONLY. $160.CALL LISA AT 4916. 1975 EL CAMINO. RUNS GOOD. $1500 FIRM. PAT 3598.  2 MIAMI GA'S 4SALE CALL STEVE X3013 TOP$ ALL HOME GA'S 312·920-9350 NEED 2 GAs FOR NAVY CALL ANN 284·4223 HELP! I NEED 3 GA'S FOR PITT. WILL TRADE 50-YD LINE PITT STUD & $$. JULIE X3789 NEED MIAMI GA'S. WILL PAY$$$. CALL JIM HAGAN COLLECT 404·331· 6039. CALL 404-351·7009 AFTER 6 PM. I simply must have 2 Miami tickets call Ted@ 1204 ______~~, _____________________________ _ WANTED: MIAMI GAs for lots o cash. Call John or Frank X1419 PENN STATE INEED3GAS SHAWN 271-9901 Wanted 2 tickets for the Miami game. Call Bob at 312·832·3308 $$!  GOING ABROAD SALE IBM Proprinter XL ($250) & IBM PC Jr. w/256K ($300), (OBO) MANY PROGRAMS INCLUDED ... Call Christine 283-2845 NEED RIDE BACK TO NYC OVER BREAK! CALL Cesar #1584 ADOPTION · Well-educated couple eager to adopt a baby. Cheerful home full of books. Flexible on sharing information with birthmother about child. Our adoption agency can provide counseling and references. Please call collect 309-827-3135 eves/wknds for profile/photo. James and Hollis. STUDENT-MADE FOOTBALL T­SHIRTS WANTED. CALL TOM COLLECT AT (602) 948-7610 WITH DESCRIPTION. ESPECIALLY WANT CATHOLICS vs. CONDOMS. WILL PAY $12.50/SHIRT. come back here, you almond-eyed sea nymph...  CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable atmosphere, daily & weekly specials, ""GRACE PERIOD"" pool table, English darts, and great ""GRACE PERIOD""" company. 234-3541 SOUTH AFRICA HiAgl A Panel Discussion (consisting of faculty and students) on South Africa. NOTRE DAME LODGING FOR PENN STATE GAME Luxurious condominiums at hotel prices. After an exhilarating game, return to Blue Knob Ski & Country Club and TONIGHT at 8:00p.m. in the GRACE enjoy dining at The Village Inn HALL 'PIT'. Free admission and Restaurant, end the evening by refreshments to follow. celebrating in the Lounge. To complete the day relax in one of our ""GRACE PERIOD"" indoor pools, hot tubs, saunas, & ""GRACE PERIOD"" steam rooms. Bus transportation available depending on occupancy. For further information please call Blue Knob Ski & Country Club at 814·239­5191 " WVFI AM-640 •• Today is the last day to enter the Squeeze ticket giveaway!! Listen to WVFI -when you hear a Squeeze song, be the first caller ANTI-APARTHEID VIGIL EVERY at 239-6400 and get your name in FRI12:15 ADMIN BLDG STEPS the ticket drawing. Winners receive a pair of Squeeze tickets. Drawing is Tuesday, Nov. 14 Start your Christmas Shopping early! Ride the --------------------------------·-·-­WINDY CITY SHUTTLE Sorry Lenny, and shop this Saturday in Chicago. While you were gone, 1went Cost is $1 0.00 at the Information out on you. Desk in LaFortune. Q.T  
AT 283·1178 THANKS  Red 4 door 1980 Honda Accord  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ LOST: Blue Notre Dame Pouch with valedine and detex. Please call x2922.  Call '3619 CHEAP AT TIX SBEND(12122) to SACTO,CA RETURN(1/15) Marge 283-2898  WANTED MIAMI GA'S. TOP$$PD. CALL 256·1 034 THANKS!  Thank You, St. Jude for a favor granted Banjo lives forecelll  OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 Miami I Miami! Miami! Miami I mo.Summer,Yr.round,AII Countries,AII I need a ride to Miami for the game. fields, Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52­l'm willing to share expenses and IN04, Corona Del Mar CA 92625. my food. If you're going and have some room, CALL MIKE AT 1789.  



MIAMI (API -The Detroit Pistons new home Sunday after a road trip that Chuck Daly described as their worst in his seven years as coaeh. 
"By far," Daly said. "We're struggling, and we'll keep struggling until we get back the killer instinct." 
The defending NBA champions, 2-3 on the trip, blew an 11-point fourth­quarter lead Saturday night against Miami and lost 88-84. 
The Pistons also lost at Indiana. where they scored only 74 points. and at Chicago. Their third defeat came 18 days earlier than last season. 
"We've got great talent," guard lsiah Thomas said. "But right now we're not a good basketball team." 
On Saturday, the Pistons played like an expansion team. while th1~ second-year Heat played liked champs. Miami rallied from a 76-65 deficit with nine minutes left, then hit six consecutive free throws in the final 62 seconds to pull away from an 82-82 tie. 
"This was the best win in team history," said Coach Ron Hothstein. a former Detroit assistant. "We have played this year better than I thought we were capable of playing." 
Second-year players Hony Seikaly and Kevin Edwards led Miami with 21 points apiece. Seikaly said the game was one the Heat (2-4) would not have won last season. 
"No way. We're a much better team than we were a year ago. We're more mature, and we're learning how to play with each other," he said. 
"We cherish every win as we go along, but this one is sweeter than any other, beeause the Pistons are the best team in the NBA." 
Not right now. 
The league's best team wouldn't miss 17 of its final 21 shots, as Detroit did Saturday. Thomas and Joe Dumars wefl)o the only Pistons to score in the final nine minutes. 

Center James Edwards missed two free throws with two seconds left when Detroit trailed 86-84. He missed all seven of his field-goal attPrnpts and has hit only five of 24 in the past four games. __....... 
The Pistons are off until a rematch witb· the Heat on Wednesday in Detroit. 

AP Photo Jge Dumars (4) and the Detroit Pistons are grateful to be back home at the Palace in Auburn Hills, Mich., following a disappointing road trip. Among the losses the defending NBA champions endured on the road was an embarrassing setback to the Miami Heat. 

Monday, November 13, 1989 
The Observer page 13 

The Observer/Trey Reymond 
Alumni defeated Off Campus 16-8 in men's lnterhall football action this weekend. Cavanaugh also won 
their contest this weekend. Meanwhile the defending champions from Lewis defeated Breen-Phillips and 
Howard surprised Farley in the women's lnterhall flag football. 
Flanner defends IH soccer crown 
Penalty kicks the difference in title game win over Zahm 
Scherzinger stopped Planner's Tom Ryan's first shot and Planner freshman goalie Kyle Cadman denied Zahm's Joe Rusco's attempt. 
"I really have to commend our keeper, Kyle," said Fieber. "He's never played goal before and really gave us some great performances." 
The teams were even in penalty kicks after Flanner's Ralph Falbo, Garth Behrje, Shawn Fieber and Pat Cornelius converted their shots. Zahm countered with the combination of Kevin Keely, Rod Foley, Scott Festler and Dino Colucci. 
Flanner's Matt Mechtenberg put in the eventual gamewinner when his kick beat Scherzinger. Cadman guessed correctly on John Peeny's attempt when he dove to his right and thus fin­ished out the 1989 Interhall soccer season. 
Hockey  
continued from page 20  
Dearborn scored a 13:27 of the third ptake a 4-3 lead.  goal eriod  at to  

But Notre Dame exploded for three goals in 90 seconds to defeat the Wolves for the sec­ond night in a row. After 
By CHRIS FILLIO 
Sports Writer 
In what seemingly was a carbon copy of last year's men's lnterhall soccer champi­onship game, Flanner once again came out on top to claim its second consecutive title. 
With the score knotted at 1-1 after regulation play, Zahm and Flanner played three scon~less five-minute overtimes before the Planner squad won on penalty kicks by a 5-4 mar­gin. 
"Zahm's certainly got the best goalkeeper we've seen this year," said Flanner head coach and sweeper Shawn Fieber, in regards to Zahm's Chris Scherzinger. "Their team is re­ally as good as anyone else we've played. But I still think we've got the best team in the league." 
Flanner opened the scoring early in the first half on a deflection goal by Ralph Falbo. 
The defenses took control over the rest of the game as both teams could only manage shots from well outside the 18-yard line. 
Zahm came back strong in the second half and tied the score when standout midfielder Warrick Muldrow put in a shot off a long throw-in by forward Jim Fitzgerald with seven min­utes left in the contest. 
Following the three overtime periods, the squads went to penalty kicks. 
"It's unfortunate that some­one has to win that way," said Zahm head coach Gary Leonard, "but that's the whole idea behind penalty kicks: de­ciding an eventual winner. I thought the team really came out well and dominated the second half." 
Both goalies made the out­come more interesting as 

The Rice University Publishing Program 
The Rice University Publishing Program, June 18-July 13, is designed to develop talent, skills and career opportunities for per­sons interested in book and magazine publishing. The program is designed for students who will be entering their senior year in 1990 and for college graduates. Although participants come from all disciplines, the program has been of particular value to students in English and other Humanities, Journalism, Art, Social Sciences and Business. 
The roster of guest lecturers includes more than 3 5 top professionals in editing, graphics, marketing and production from throughout the country. 
For more information, contact the Office of Continuing Studies, Rice University, P.O. Box 1892, Houston, Texas 77251-1892. Telephone (713) 520-6022 or 527-4803. 
\Xt',l/wm Man:h R1ce Unll'ersir:v is an EO! AA Employer. 
SMC tennis continues tradition of excellence 
By HEATHER ATKINSON 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
For the third year in a row, the Saint Mary's tennis team captured the District 21 title and will represent Indiana at the NAJA National Tournament held at Kansas City in May. 
The Belles' fall season ended with a 13-2 record, with their losses coming from NCAA Division I schools Evansville and Butler. 
"Overall, the team worked very hard this season, which is indicated by the team's suc­cesses and achievements," said Belles coach Charlene Szajko. 
Saint Mary's captured five of the six singles titles and two of the three doubles titles at the District Tournament. 
Several of the Belles' singles players easily defeated their opponents from DePauw in the finals. Sarah Mayer captured the No. 2 title with scores of 6­1,6-1. In No. 3 singles, Denise McDonald triumphed 6-2, 6-1. Ellen Mayer won in No. 4 play with a 6-0, 6-1 championship victory. 
Marie Koscielski turned in an exceptional comeback, rallying from a 1-6 deficit in the first set to win win the next two sets 6-4, 6-2 and take the No. 5 sin­gles title. 
Natalie Kloepfer had no trouble bringing home a tour­nament title as she won 6-2, 6­1 in the No. 6 singles bracket. 
In doubles play, the combined strength of the singles players resulted in additional District Tournament victories for Saint Mary's. 
Jen Block teamed up with Sarah Mayer to defeat Huntington 6-1,6-3 in No. 1 doubles competition. 
The No. 2 team of Koscielski and McDonald cruised past its DePauw counterpart by a score of 6-1, 6-2. 
Ellen Mayer and Kloepfer captured the No. 3 doubles title after winning the tie-breaker , 7-5, in the first set and easily capturing the second set, 6-1. 
At the tournament, Jen Block and Sarah Mayer were selected to play on the all-district team in both singles and doubles competition. Szajko was named Coach of the Year. 

7'Utd, 1/tu, ~, ~,~, Lt44, ~, &~ 
The Observer/Madeleine Castellini 
Flanner defeated Zahm on penalty kicks to claim its second 
got a lot of talent, and he's 
working to refine that talent all 
the time." 

Dave Bankoske, who led the Irish with 9 attempted shots, finally was able to find the mark when he added an insur­ance goal with 2:49 left in the game. 
Senior goalie Lance Madson turned in a strong performance both nights for Notre Dame. He stopped 29 out of 33 shots on Friday night, and turned away 18 of 22 on Saturday. for a . combined save percentage of .854. 
N.D./MIAMI GAME 
NOV. 24-26, 1989 

s599 oa:: ="pancy 
~gerton's 2~30MCK~~;4~r
1-.J00-552-2811 (IND.) 1-800-643-44104 (U.S.A.) 

consecutive lnterhall soccer title. 
sophomore left wing Mike Curry tied it up with 4:19 left in the game, freshman Dan Sawyer gave the Irish their first lead of the game with his fifth goal of the season. 
"Dan's play so far this season is a testimony to why he was drafted by the Calgary Flames (of the National Hockey League)," says Schafer, "He's 
'U'e Lrw.e ~(Ut. 

Monday, November 13, 1989
page 14 The Observer 
Williams shines as ND basketball tops Israel team 70-65 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Notre Dame led by as many 
up 70-62 with 1 :28 left. Associate Sports Editor as 12 points during the game, Jackson finished the game pulling ahead 57-45 on a shooting 5-of-7 from three­
With InJuries sidelining Jamere Jackson three-point point range and just 1-of-6 upperclassmen Joe l'redrick goal with just more than 12 from within the stripe. and Kevin Ellery, the Notre minutes left in the contest, but "The biggest thing for us is Dame basketball team's only the Israel team's group of we got to play somebody freshman led the Irish past the former American collegiate besides ourselves, and it came lsnwl team Hapoel Galil Elyon players kept things interesting. down to us being up three and 70-65 Friday at the Joyce ACC. Brad Leaf, who once played having to make some big 
Monty Williams, a 6-6 for­for Evansville, led the foreign shots," said the senior Irish co­ward from Oxen Hills, Md., squad with 23 points on 10-of-captain. "Without three of our scored 15 points and pulled 24 shooting. Former Virginia top seven players, it gave us the down seven rebounds in his standout Andrew Kennedy opportunity to for some other first collegiate appearance. added 22, with 16 of them players to show what they
Monty Williams Jamere Jackson 
Following the game, Irish coming in the first half. could do." coach Digger Phelps called "Joe Fredrick told me to just The Israel squad. opening a 4-of-9 shooting. Phelps said that he used the Williams the team's most valu­shoot my shot, and that's what 10-game American tour Friday, Hapoel Galil Elyon still game as a chance to have able player Friday. I did," Williams said. "I felt had problems adjusting to the managed to keep the game in different combinations of 
"Monty Williams is for real," kind of good in warmups, so I U.S. collegiate rules, according doubt until the final minutes, players on the lloor. said Phelps, entering his 18th just went out there and to Hapoel Galil Elyon coach thanks in part to Notre Dame's "It was like last year when we season as the Notre Dame head hacked." Mulli Katzorin. ice-cold 40 percent second-half played Zadar," said Phelps, coach. "He showed a lot of Fredrick missed the game "The 45-second clock took us shooting. referring to last season's 71-68 poise and confidence for his with a sore back, while an out of our rhythm," said When Kennedy stole an Irish preseason win over a first game. lie's going to be a ankle injury kept Ellery out of Katzorin, whose team is 4-4 pass and made a layup on the Yugoslavian team. "We're good player." action. Sophomore forward and in fifth place in its league other end, Notre Dame's lead going against some different 
Williams, who shot 4-of-4 LaPhonso Ellis, academically at Israel. "For example, was down to 65-62 with a little people who play smart from the field in the first half ineligible during the first (Stephen) Malovic usually more than four minutes left. basketball, and we use different as the Irish took a 42-34 lead semester, also did not play shoots for us every game about Jackson, who had a team­combinations of people to see into the intermission, said he against Hapoel Galil Elyon. 60 percent, like 6-of-8 or 6-of-leading 15 points. responded what they could do." took some advice from his Despite those absences, the 10. Today, he was not in his with a three-point goal, then Notre Dame opens its season injured co-captain before the Irish never trailed Friday game at all." scored the game's next basket Nov. 28 with a home game game. evening. Malovic scored nine points on a minute later, to put the Irish against San Francisco. 

Bears whip Steelers, Chargers edge Raiders in NFL 
(AP) -Chicago won in Pittsburgh for the first time since World War II, and that was a good idea. The Bears scored all 20 of their points in the first half. and that wasn't such a good idea. 
"I don't think we played any better than they did, but the turnovers were the difference," Bears coach Mike Ditka said. "Any time you shut out a team in the National Football League you have to be encouraged, but we were shut out in the second half, and that's not encouraging." 
Jim Harbaugh threw one touchdown pass and set up another, and Chicago turned two of Pittsburgh's six turnovers into 13 points in the final 2:07 of the second quarter for a 20-0 victory Sunday. 
Lemuel Stinson had two interceptions. the first thrown by Hubby Brister in eight games, and William "The Hefrigerator" Perry had two sacks and a fumble recovery for Chicago ( 6-4 ). 
Harbaugh kept alive Chicago's first scoring drive with three 9-yard scrambles before Neal Anderson scored from the 2. Harbaugh threw a swing pass to Brad Muster for an 18-yard touchdown with 
1:13 left in the first half for Chicago's final points. 
The Bears, 0-4-1 since they last won in Pittsburgh in 1944, had lost four of their last five and three in a row on the road. The Steelers (4-6) have been outscored 54-7 in their last two games. 
"When you keep making mistakes and turning it over, 
BIRTHDAY TYLER 
FROM: A SECRET ADMIRER 

there's not much of an explanation to anything," Steelers coach Chuck Noll said. 
In other games, it was Los Angeles Rams 31, New York Giants 10; San Francisco 45, Atlanta 3; Denver 16, Kansas City 13; Detroit 31, Green Bay 22; Buffalo 30, Indianapolis 7; Miami 31, New York Jets 23; Minnesota 24, Tampa Bay 20; New Orleans 28, New England 24; Washington 10, Philadelphia 3; Cleveland 17, Seattle 7, and Phoenix 24, Dallas 20. 
In a Sunday night game, San Diego beat the Los Angeles Haiders 14-12. Cincinnati is at Houston Monday night. 
Chargers 14,
Raiders 12 

Anthony Miller returned a kickoff 91 yards for a touchdown and Tim Spencer atoned for a goal-line fumble by running for San Diego's winning score against the Raiders. 
Spencer, who fumbled inside the Raider 1-yard line earlier in the fourth period, put the Chargers on top with a 4-yard run with 8:48 to play. 
The touchdown run was set up when the Chargers' Ken Woodard partially blocked Jeff Gossett's punt. San Diego's Cedric Figaro recovered at the Raiders 23 and Spencer scored four plays later. 
The Raiders fell to 5-5 despite Bo Jackson's third 100­yard rushing game. He had 103 yards on 21 carries. 
Rams 31, Giants 10 Jim Everett completed 23 of Majkowski, an interception of Majkowski, a 74-yard punt return by Don Bracken to the Packers 13, and Jerry Holmes 23-yard TD return of another Majkowski interception. 
Green Bay fell to 5-5. 

Bills 30, Colts 7 
Andre Reed caught two of Jim Kelly's three touchdown passes, and the Bills (7-3) got 13 points from three first­quarter Indianapolis fumbles. 
Indianapolis (4-6) started the rout when James Pruitt fumbled away the opening kickoff. 
33 passes for 295 yards, including two touchdowns in the final minute of the first half, as he and the Los Angeles Rams returned to their early season form. 
Everett completed a club­record 18 consecutive passes at one stretch as the Rams (6-4) ended a four-game losing streak. That slide began after they won their first five, the best start by an NFL team this season. 
The loss by the Giants (8-2) halted their four-game winning streak. 
49ers 45, Falcons 3 
Joe Montana passed for three touchdowns and ran for another, and Roger Craig topped 100 yards rushing for the first time in nine weeks as the 49ers won their sixth in a row. 
Since the Giants' lost to the Rams, the 49ers have sole ownership of the NFL's best record at 9-1. 
The Falcons (3-7) are winless in six road games, having scored just 80 points. 
Broncos 16, Chiefs 13 
David Treadwell's 26-yard field goal with one second to play broke a 13-13 tie and gave the Broncos a commanding 8-2 record in the AFC West. 
Despite being outplayed most 
CAN YOU FILL THIS UNIFORM? 
NON-VARSITY NEEDS BASKETBALL REFEREES GOOD PAY FLEXIBLE HOURS SIGN-UP AT NVA lN THE JACC 
of the day, the Chiefs (4-6) tied it at 13-13 with 5:36 left on Steve Pelluer's 3-yard touchdown pass to Emile Harry. 
But John Elway drove the Broncos 71 yards downfield in just 10 plays, setting up the field goal. 
Lions 31, Packers 22 
Rodney Peete threw two touchdown passes to Richard Johnson, and defense set up all of Detroit's points as the Lions won for only the second time. 
Detroit scored 21 points in the second quarter. The scores came after a fumble by Green Bay quarterback Don 

~-~ ~-------------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, November 13, 1989 
The Observer page 15 

Today, cotnputer technology is an important and necessary element of higher education, for the faculty member as much as for the student. Curriculutn innovation plays a significant role in the development and effectiveness of higher education. The key words to curriculum innovation today are "computer technology_," more specifically, "Macintosfl Computers." As faculty search for ways to use computers in their classrooms to encourage and itnprove learning, Macintosh is there with solutions; offering the tnost progressive educational tools for today's college environment. For more inforn1ation about Macintosh products, contact the Notre Dame Computer 

On November 15, any student or faculty member will be eligible to win a Macintosh SE. You just have to visit Theodore's between 7 and 9p.m. on the 15th and enter the Macintosh raft1e. In addition to food and drink, representatives from Macintosh;oftware companies will he demonstrating some of the many possibilities available to Macintosh users. 
Mac Is What You Make It 
1989 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. 
. .' 

Monday, November 13, 1989 
page 16 The Observer 

SMU 

continued from page 20 
n~er punt rPturns for touch­downs. 
"I didn't know it was that long," WattPrs said. "Wiwn tlwy said I brokP a rneord. I said 'What arP you talking about?' I was right on the 20 when lw kicked it. It was so high. and I kept backing up. I caught it, and I was following my blocks. Towards tlw end I was thinking, 'Man. this is a long run."' 
Tlw Irish started slow, scor­ing one touchdown in the first quarter. on an option play from quarterback Tony Hire to Watters, who turned up the right side and ran 35 yards for a score. Craig Ilentrieh gave the Irish a 7-0 lead with the ex­tra point. 
In the second quarter, the Irish offense took charge, piling up 35 points while allowing the Mustangs their only score of the day. 
Senior reserve quarterback Pete Graham scored his first career touchdown on a keeper with 14:22 to go in the half to give Notre Dame a 14-0 lead. 

Then the Mustangs took ad­vantage of a fumbled punt re­turn by Haghib Ismail to score, as quarterback Mike Homo hit 
wide  receiver  Andy  Bergfeld  
with  a  five-yard  touchdown  
pass.  
On  the  ensuing point-after  

try, Notre Dame's Nick Smith 

blocked Matt Lomeniek's kick, and the ball was picked up by Andre .Jones, who ran it the other way for a two-point con­version. upping Notre Dame's lead to 16-6. It was thn first­Pver dPfensive extra point con­version for the Irish. 
Tlw Irish nwmentum contin­ued on a field goal by Bill llackett with S: I h to play, making tlw scorP 19-6. Next up was Watl!~rs. and his punt re­turn for a touchdown and the PAT upped the score to 26-6. 
Notre Dame's defense again stopped the Mustangs. and a 29-yard pass from Hice to Ismail set up the next Irish touchdown. Anthony Johnson took three tacklers into the endzone for the score, and another llentrieh kick pushed tlw lead to 27. 
On the kickoff. SMU's Michael Bowen fielded the kiek on the sideline, then tried to lateral it to teammate Korey Beard. Beard chased the ball down, but was tackled on the three­yard line by Jones. The Mustangs couldn't budge, and Clyee took an intentional safety to give Notre Dame a 35-6 lead. 
And still the quarter worn on. The Irish drove 75 yards for thn linal score of the half. a 14­yard scramble by Walter Boyd. The half ended with the Irish holding a 42-6 lead. 
"We did not tackle well at all," Gregg said. "We didn't do some of the basics of the game, what you must be able to do against any opponent. They're businesslike. They put their hats on and go to work." 

The Irish maintained the at­tack, but not the scoring, in the second half. Setzer got the first touchdown of his career on a two-yard run with 10:51 to go in the third quarter, Hackett converted a 32-yard field goal and senior Hod West, playing an unfamiliar role in the backfield, scored on a one­yard run with 3:22 to go. The final Hentrich PAT made the score the final 59-6. 
The final tallies showed 572 yards in total offense for the Irish (358 rushing and 214 passing). Notre Dame's three quarterbacks totalled 11-of-14, with Hiek Mirer and Graham each completing 3-of-3. Watters accumulated 69 rush­ing yards on sfwen carries, and freshman Dorsey Levens added 
59. Sixteen players carried the ball for the Irish. Notre Dame did not punt. 


.ll xx~~~xxxxx~xxxxx~xxxxxxxxxxx~xx~~xxxxxxxxxxxxx~xxxxxxxxxx~ 
-
STUDENT RCTI UITI ES BORRD •• ~ 
~ ~
!'1)VIE THIS WEEK "SAY ANYTHING" with John Cusack Tues-Thurs. Nov. 14-16 ~ at 9:00 and 11:15 in Carroll Aud_. $1 admission ~ 
TONIGHT IN STAPLETON LOUNGE IN LEMANS at 7:00 
Dr. John Hammock executtve director of Oxfam-All Welcome! 
xxxx~xxxxxxxxxxxx~~~xxxxxxxxxxxx~xxxxxxxxxxxx~xxxxxxxxxxxx 


AP Phnto 

Anthony Thompson's NCAA record 377-yard rushing game Satur~ay against Wisconsin may have vaulted the Indiana runnmo back 1nto front-runner status in the Heisman Trophy race 
-

MADISON, Wis. (AP) ­Anthony Thompson has added another NCAA record to his Heisman Trophy resume, but says he could care less. Hecords and awards don't make him go. 
The Indiana tailback isn't counting touchdowns, even though he's scored an NCAA­record 64 in his regular-season career for the Hoosiers. 
And Saturday he wasn't keeping track of his mileage, wh~n he ran around and through Wisconsin's defense for an NCAA-record 377 yards on a bone-tiring 52 carries. 
''I'm not really concerned about the lleisman. I'm more eoncerm~d with nnxt w"ee.k's game against llli~ois. It's a big game for us," Thompson said. 
So was Saturday's 45-17 rout of Wi~eohsin as the Hoosiers bounced baek from back-to­hack lopsided losses to Michiga·n and Michigan State, when the elusive Thompson was held under 100 yards in both games. 
But from the outset Saturday, it was obvious the Badgers would have trouble containing Thompson. 
He went left and right and did spin moves like a basketball player. He'd stutter step in one direction and go the other. He ducked and pivoted and went to the outside and cut it back to the inside. 
'He bobs and weaves. I know that sounds like a boxer but it's true," ,Wisconsin linebacker Tim Knoeck said. 
And Thompson wasn't even tired. despite his school-record 52 carries. That's because the Hoosiers were winning. 
"I was more tired in the Michigan game than this one," Thompson said. "Just getting pounded is really frustrating 
and takes a lot of energy out of "I never hit him straight on. you. It always seemed I was 
"When your momentum's scratching, clawing and trying going, I really don't seem to get to hang on to him." too tired." 
But the Badgers were tired of The Badgers trailed 24-0 trying to pin Thompson down early and then rallied to within Saturday. He broke the 24-17 when Craig Hudson previous NCAA record of 357 broke off an SO-yard run on a yards shared by Mike Pringle of reverse in the third quarter. Fullerton State -set just last week -and Hueben Mayes of But back came the Hoosiers Washington State in 1984. on an SO-yard drive with 
"He stopped me right in my Thompson carrying 12 times tracks more than a few times," and completing it with a 1-yard Wisconsin linebacker Brendan run. the third of his four Lynch said. touchdowns on the dav. 
INSTITUTE FOR 
INTERNATIONAL 
PEACE STUDIES 
Lecture 

SEYOM BROWN 
Clw•r. Department of Politics Brandeis Univers•ty 

"AFTER THE COLD WAR: WHAT?" 
Tuesday, November 14, 1989 4:00p.m. Room 121 -Law School 
Open to the Public 
No Admission Charge 



Monday, November 13, 1989 The Observer page 17 
Maryland ties Penn State 13-13 
BALTIMORE (AP) l'enn State leads the overall quarter. The touchdown capped a drive in which Penn State
Maryland ended a 24-game los­series 31-1-1. 
moved 80 yards in 11 plays,
ing streak against Penn State After Maryland tied the score when Dan D~Armas kicked his at 10 on a 28-yard field goal by taking it inside the Maryland 20 for the fourth time in the game.
second field goal of the game, a DeArmas with 12:34 left in the 26-yarder with 58 seconds to game and the two teams ex­Maryland took a 7-0 lead 
changed punts, Penn State with 2:48 left in the first half
play that lifted the Terrapins into a 13-13 tie with the 13th­drove 58 yards in three plays to when Neil O'Donnell threw a 6­ranked Nittany Lions. the Maryland 6-yard line. yard touchdown pass to Mike 
Maryland, which has not However, the drive stalled as Anderson. The Terps drove 48 beaten Penn State since 1961, three running plays lost a yard, yards in 8 plays for the score after Terrapins defensive line­
drove 57 yards in 11 plays to and the Nittany Lions settled 
man Lubo Zizrakovic blocked a
set up the tying field goal, mov­for a 24-yard field by Ray ing the Terps' record to 3-6-1. Tarasi with 5:08 to play and a punt. On their final possession. the 13-10 lead, setting the stage .. 
AP Photo

Nittany Lions, whose record is for Maryland's game-tying The Nittany Lions drove to 6-2-1, moved the ball to the drive. inside the Maryland 20-yard Penn State football coach Joe Paterno says he will treat Saturday'sMaryland 48-yard line, with the The Nittany Lions took their three times in the first half, 13-13 tie with Maryland as a loss. Paterno's Nittany Lions will try to game ending when Tom Bill's first lead at 10-7 when Leroy scoring only on a 24-yard field end the nation's longest winning streak this coming Saturday when pass into the end zone fell in­Thompson scored on a 7 -yard goal by Tarasi with two sec­they host top-ranked Notre Dame.
complete. run with 10:30 left in the third onds left in the half. 
Colorado still on Orange Bowl path 
STILLWATER, Okla. (AP) -On defense, the Cowboys used fullback-tailback game.To get to the Orange Bowl in third-string safety Cornell "We wanted to make them goMiami, second-ranked Colorado Cannon as a rover and had him to their power stuff, and they must travel through Kansas shadow quarterback Darian pretty well mauled around on State. There is no reason to Hagan. As a result, Hagan us." think the ride will be anything wasn't able to get outside on The result was 41 straightbut smooth. option plays. points, including 24 in the 
After flattening Oklahoma "He (Cannon) didn't cause us second quarter when the State 41-17 on Saturday, real problems, but it was Buffaloes seized control of the Colorado is 10-0 for the first something we had to adjust game. Flannigan started the time and 6-0 in the Big Eight. to," Colorado coach Bill barrage with a 1-yardThe Buffaloes have won each McCartney said. touchdown run, then Hagan game by an average of 25 The adjustment was simple -added a 5-yard run and a 26­points, and have been able to start running inside instead of yard TD pass to M.J. Nelson. avoid costly letdowns. outside -and the results were 
"I give them a lot of credit," immediate. Hagan's big pass plays were Oklahoma State coach Pat After the first two drives as painful to the Cowboys as Jones said. "They'd just come netted only 2 yards, the Colorado's tough inside off two big wins (over Buffaloes averaged 50 yards on running game. Nebraska and Oklahoma) ... I their next eight possessions. On sincerely wish them the best six of those possessions, they On the first touchdown drive, and hope they go on to win the put points on the board. Hagan hit Jeff Campbell for 18 whole shooting match." The fullbacks, Erich Kissick yards on a third-and-5 play. 
Oklahoma State, 4-6 and 3-3, and George Hemingway, each Two plays later, he found had early success with a little averaged 5 yards per carry. Campbell on a 38-yard gain trickery on both sides of ·the The main beneficiary was that put the ball on Oklahoma ball. The Cowboys used no tailback J .J. Flannigan, who State's 9. huddle in the early going, and had 143 yards on 23 carries. 
The Observer/E.G. Bailey 

when Mike Gundy and Curtis "We got the desired effect," "Then the offense really Mayfield got together on a 53-Jones said of his defensive started to click," McCartneyReserve fullback Walter Boyd drives toward the end zone on a 14 yard yard scoring pass on the first game plan. "We forced them said. "By then we had the wind, touchdown run. Boyd, like the rest of the Irish subs, was able to play of the second quarter, out of their option stuff on the and it really made it difficultshowcase his skills quite extensively as Notre Dame pounded SMU. 
Oklahoma State led 10-0. perimeter. We made it a for OSU." 

How~re you going to do it? 
·~~nd I 1mnt /0 e.'P"'·" m1· deep/1· felt indebtedness and gmtitude to m•· PS/2. It helped me p:et more done -~o I had mow time fJrfun."' 
PS/2 it! 
You don't have to be the valedictorian to know collegp is 
no picnic. But the IBM Personal System/2® can be a big help. 
It lets you get more done in less time. You can organize your 
notes, write and revise papers, and create smart-looking 
graphics to make a good report even better. All in all, the 
IBM PS/2® can make your school life a lot easier. And .• 
after school, it can give you a head start on your • ·'-t.t 

career. Because there's a good chance you'll be work-.~!l!..f~--;J!JJ'~ 
ing with a PS/2 wherever you work after college. ~ And right now, as a student you have an advantage. You can get the IBM PS/2 at a terrific low price. So save money and make a smart career decision at the same time. 
Coming soon: IMMEDIATE DELIVERY! 
NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE Office of University Computing Computing Center and Math Building 
239-7477 § : =i'f~m 
BM. Personal System/2 and PS/2 are regiStered trademarl<.s of 1ntemaiK>Oal8uStness Mach•nes Corporatton ©IBM Corp 1989 
West 
continued from page 20 
"Even if I hadn't been able to score against SMU, everything would have been worth it," said the New Orleans resident who normally plays tight end. "Actually, my biggest moment was probably on Tim Brown's punt return for a touchdown two years ago against Michigan State. Given the fact that Brown went on to win the Heisman, it was special that I made the last block on the punter to allow him to score.. 
"In the tunnel before the game as they introduced the seniors, it was the eeriest feel­ing I've ever had in my life," West continued. "It was a sad moment, but at the same time it was exciting that we had come so far, going from 5-6 my freshman year to a 22 game winning streak." 
Another senior who had a chance to contribute was de­fensive tackle Bryan Flannery, who intercepted the first pass of his career in the third quar­ter. 
"Greg Davis, a good friend of mine, came blitzing through," says Flannery. "We were on a stunt where I was pulling my guy out, and Greg came flying through. He forced the quar­terback to make a quick re­lease, got his hands up, tipped the ball, and I was just in the right place." 
Flannery also had trouble leaving the field after his last home game. 
"I broke down in tears there; I kind of lost it in the locker room after I came in. After you realize your four years are ending, it's tough," said Flannery. "But this is a good way to go out. I figured I'd end the game on that play. It was kind of special, I guess. It's something I'll always remem­ber, and I'll be able to tell my grandchildren about it. 
The seniors aren't the only ones who were glad to show­case their talents on Saturday. Several freshmen waiting for their turn to make names for themselves contributed key plays against SMU. 
Split end William Pollard, who caught two passes for 47 yards and almost broke one all the way in the second quarter, was glad to make his mark. 
"I caught it, and I thought, 'Oh wow, I've caught the ball,'" Pollard says of his big gainer, which went for 37 yards, "And then my wheels just wouldn't turn. It takes me a little longer to get my speed up, compared to some of the shorter guys." 
Linebacker Nick Smith also made his presence felt, block­ing a field goal which Andre 
-
Jones returned for a defensive two-point conversion. "It hap­pened so fast," said Smith. "We watched films during the week, and they said we could get pen­etration up the middle. I was just out there, and I looked up, saw a little crease, and just went through. It was no great technique or anything." 
Not everybody becomes an All-American or wins a Heisman Trophy, but for those who labor in practice for years without recognition, a moment of glory in a lopsided game can make the whole experience worthwhile. 
............ 

Monday, November 13, 1989
page 18 The Observer 
ND volleyball splits weekend pair 
Irish down 111.-Chicago, lose to No. 10 Texas-Arlington 


By GREG SCHECKENBACH 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team split its two matches this weekend at the Joyce ACC, looking sloppy in a win over easy opponent Illinois-Chicago and looking good in a loss to nationally-ranked Texas­Arlington. 
The Irish, 12-16, have played at the level of tlwir opposition for much of th11 season, as shown by their performance against a lowly Illinois-Chicago squad. Although Notre Dame cruised to a 15-9, 15-6, 7-15, 15-7 victory, Irish coach Art Lambert was not exactly pleased. 
"We came out very sluggish," stated Lambert. "They should never have beaten us in the third game. Our performance wasn't very good." 
Substituting at will. Notre Dame used all of its players. Freshman Jessica Fiebelkorn led the way for the Irish, post­ing a match-high 18 kills from the middle hitter position. 
Sophomore Jennifer Slosar contributed 9 kills along with a team high eight digs. Once again, setter Taryn Collins provided stable play with 52 assists. 
The Flames were nearly a one woman team with Dee Dee Ericks leading in most of the offensive categories. She recorded 15 kills, 13 digs, and five total blocks in a losing cause. 
On Saturday night, the scene changed tremendously with the arrival of 1Oth-ranked Texas­Arlington. The Mavericks came into the JACC on a roll. riding a 15-match winning streak. 
The first two games went to Texas-Arlington 15-5, 15-11 as the Irish gave up an incredible .531 hitting percentage to the visitors. 
Along with the understand­able mental errors, Notre Dame had many problems with the fundamentals of volleyball. 
"Our service game is very poor (15 service errors)," said 
a. disappointed Lambert. "Right now, our blocking is really hurting us and we need to im­prove." 
In the third game, Notre Dame, behind a boisterous crowd, knocked off the Mavericks 15-11. Slosar led the charge with numerous kills from the bark row and one of her two service aces. Junior Colleen Wagner also provided some spark for the Irish tally­ing six kills and nine digs. 
''I'm really pleased with Wagner right now," said Lambert. "All in all, she is im­proving everyday." 

The fourth game was another tight battle, with Texas­Arlington winning 15-10. The game was highlighted by the emergence of a middle attack for the Irish. Senior Kathy Cunningham and Fiebelkorn racked up 13 and 16 kills, re­spectively. 
Junior Tracey Shelton had a team high 13 digs, most coming in the fourth and final game. 
The Mavericks were led by the strong arm of Sara Madariaga, who smashed 20 kills by Irish blockers. Edrina Pogue con­tributed 11 kills and a season high 20 digs. 
"We played well in spots," s.tated an optimistic Lambert. "But it is not a good perfor­mance if you don't win." 
This type of performance has haunted the Irish all year. They get behind early and end up having to fight back into the match, many times falling short. 
"Hopefully, with four days of practice under our belt, we can come back and eliminate our mistakes before our next match," said Lambert. 
Notre Dame will travel to the Western Michigan Invitational 
next  weekend  for  what  
promises  to  be a  tough  tour­ 
nament.  

SPORTS BRIEFS 
Big Four Classic student tickets will go on sale from 9 a.m.to 5 p.m. Monday and Tuesday at Gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. The tickets are $25 for the games. Notre Dame will play Louisville and Indiana will meet Kentucky in the games on Dec. 2. Students may buy one ticket per ID with a maximum of four IDs. 
Ric Schafer. Notre Dame hockey coach, will speak at the Irish Insanity meeting at 7:30 p.m. tonight in Montgomery Theatre in Lafortune. 
TaeKwonDo/Hapkido Club will meet 8:30 to 9:30 ~.m. Tuesdays and Thursdays in Room 219 Rockne Memonal. Sixth degree black belt Phil Hong will teach the classes. Beginners are welcome. 
The NO women's basketball team lost to the Bulgarian National Team 78-73 in an exhibition game Saturday afternoon at the Joyce ACC. Karen Robinson led the Irish with 22 points, and Sara Liebscher added 21 points. Further details of the game will appear in Tuesday's issue of The Observer. 
WVFI-640 AM will have Jamey Rappis, Vic Lombardi and Kevin McCormick joined by Steve Megargee of The Observer for a round-table discussion on college and professional basketball tonight at 8 p.m. Questions will be taken at 239-6400. 
Indiana University defeated Athletes in Action 90-86 in an exhibition basketball game Sunday. Eric Anderson led the Hoosiers with 22 points. 
District 
continued from page 20 

Michigan had beaten us at our own meet (the Notre Dame Invitational) by two points, and I thought we could beat them but I was wrong." 
The bright spot for the team was that Mike O'Connor quali fied as an individual for the NCAAs with his eight place ·fin­ish at a time of 31:23. The dis­trict meet selects five individu­als for the NCAA meet who have not qualified on a team. 
More good news for the Irish is that the whole team probably will be back next year. O'Rourke and O'Connor, two seniors, will apply for a fifth year and enroll in MBA school. The highly-touted freshmen on the team, Coyle and Burke, each will have a year of experience. 
But as for this season, the team was naturally disap­pointed with the abrupt end. 
"It was a big heartbreak for us. We're all pretty down,' O'Rourke stated. "If we had run in the NCAAs, I think that we could have been in the top 10 again this year." 
The districts marked the end 
ATTENTION STUDENTS!! ATTENTION STUDENTS!! 
NOTRE DAME'S DEVELOPMENT PHONE CENTER NOW HIRING FOR THE 1990 SPRING SEMESTER 
20-30 Student Positions Available $4.70 Per Hour 
-
Flexible evening hours: 6;45-1 0:45 All interested are invited to an informal Open House/Information Session at the Development Phone Center (southeast corner of Badin Hall) Monday November 13 or Tuesday November 14 From 4:00pm-5:00pm 
PLEASE JOIN US 
For more information, call Carol McClory 239-7938 or Mike Brach 239-7241 

of what had been an awesome season for the team. The Irish rolled along, beating every team they faced except Central Michigan. 
"As a whole, it's been a good year," Piane said. "We beat the No. 2 team in the nation (Providence) while they were ranked number two. We beat Georgetown, who advanced to the NCAAs, and we beat USC, a team that had beaten us last 
Thanks for everything! You're the greatest 
Love, Tiffany 
year. 

Notre Dame also emerged as the Midwestern Collegiate Conference champion and the winner of the National Catholic Meet. But the long season took its toll on the runners, and they could not sustam tne morneu­tum for the District Meet. 
The Irish have qualified for the NCAAs each of the last two years, and finished in the top 10 nationally both times. 

t!p• STIJDE~ • Enter the Air Force ~ immediately after gradua­tion-without waiting for the results of your State Boards. You can earn great benefits as an Air Force nurse officer. And if selected during your senior year, you may qualify for a five-month internship at a major Air Force medical facili­ty. To apply, you'll need an overall 2.50 GPA. Get a head start in the Air Force. Call USAF HEALTII PROFESSIONS 317-848-5830 COILECf  



Monday, November 13, 1989 
The Observer page 19 

LECTURE CIRCUIT Monday, November 13 
2:30 p.m. IBM Lecture Series in Nanoelectronics, "Quantum Kinetic Theory of Tunneling Devices," Dr. William Fren'sley, Centra; Research Laboratories, Texas Instruments, Dallas. Room 248 Fitzpatrick. Sponsored by Electrical and Computer Engineering. 
4 p.m. Siegfried Lecture Series in Entrepreneurial Stud­ies, "Influences Upon Entrepreneurship," Arnold Cooper, Lewis Wei!, Jr., professor of management, Purdue. Room 122 Hayes-Healy. Sponsored by Department of Manage­ment. 
4:30 p.m. Lecture, "The Role of the Drosophila EGF Re­ceptor Homolog in Oogenesis," Dr. James Price, Depart­ment of Biology, Princeton University. Room 283 Galvin Life Science. Sponsored by the Department of Biological Sciences. 
7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Lounge. Workshop by Marilyn Bury, assistant director of Career and Placement Services. "Resume Writing Workshop". Sponsored by the Career and Placement Services. 
7:30 p.m. Lecture, "Talley Rand," Professor Bernard Norling, ND Department of History. Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Saint Mary's Depart­ment of History. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame menu 
Teriyaki Cube Steak 
Turkey Turnover w/ Sauce 
Veal Grinder 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
ACROSS 
1 Seaweed 
5 Nativity 10 Canter or trot 14 Seedless plant 15 Lacking sense 16 Bring to ruin 17 "The Wind in the 
Willows" hero 18 Cavern-dwelling 
miner of song 20 Annapolis grad. 21 Dunce's 
headgear 22 Forceful person 23 Supplant 25--day 
service 26 Seventh Greek letter 27 Insect trap 

31 Classic Chaplin film 
35 Be beholden to 
36 Second of Ben Cartwright's sons 
37 Gypsy gentleman 38 Coaster 39 Freer Gallery display 40 Participants in 31 Across 44 Unlearned 46 According to 
47 Section of Westminster Abbey 
48 Items for a coloring book 52 Flattened at the poles 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


CROSSWORD 55 "Death in Venice" author 56 Affectedly shy 57 Large-footed daughter of 18 Across 59 Endless time period 60 Adjust carefully 61 Units of heredity 62 Told all to the police 63 Evangelist Roberts 64 Live 65 Housemaid's 
DOWN 
1 In pursuit of 2Sierra­3 Comprehension 4 Y, et or und 5 Kind of 
spectacles 6 Golfer's hole-­
21 Ancient Roman 32 Claxon 49 Vast quantity 
7 Descriptive of 
censor 33 Neighbor of a 50 Nota soul
Ben Jonson 
24 Furniture Lett 
51 Irish dramatist: 

8 An explosive 
supports 34 Hive idler 1871-1909
9 Periods of 
25 Batter's problem 38 Sojourn 52 Eight: Comb. 
highest vigor 27 U.S. poet ("The 40 Rattle on form
10 Hen or pig preceder Hired Man") 41 Vindictive spirit 53 Become 
11 Tolstoy's 42 Sincerely
28 Shirt style indistinct Karen ina 29 Wide-mouthed zealous 54 Capp's --the 12 Common pitcher 43 Extended 
Hyena 

footnote 30 Rhode lslar1d Scottish family 55 Type of skirt 13 Corrida 45 Glossy paint 58 Singing cowboy participant 31 SEAsian 48 Woody plant Ritter 19 Oread or dryad language stems 59 Invite 
BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
WILBUR AND WENDEL JAY HOSLER 

-
J 

Sports
page 20 Monday, November 13, 1989 

No surprises here -
Irish bury Mustangs 59-6 
ND makes concerted effort New faces to avoid running up score get chances 
By THERESA KELLY to do," said gradous SMU head 
to show off 
Sports Editor coach Forrest Gregg, who watched his freshman-laden By KEN TVSIAC The Good. The Bad. And the team fall to 2-7. "They did ev­Sports Writer Ugly. erything to keep the score down 
Notre Dame dnfeated once the game was settled, but Southf'fn Methodist 59-6 you can't ask these kids not to Many people watch a game Saturday at Notre Dame play hard. I respect him for it. like Notrn Dame's 59-6 victory Stadium, as the Irish found a It's a credit to the team and the over SMU Saturday and shake passing gam!~ and the coach." their heads in disappointment. Mustangs found they weren't Also ugly for the Irish were They complain that the game is quite ready to face the No. 1 seven fumbles. three of which boring and that the Irish team in the nation. they lost. Three were committed shouldn't even schedule such an 
The Good on Saturday was by the return teams. inferior opponnnt. Notre Dame. The Bad was "We tried to run before we For many members of thn SMU. The Ugly was not only the caught the ball." said Holts, Notre Dame football team. final score, but the Irish efforts whose team improved to 10-0. however. "the vietory over SMU to keep themselves in check and "You could make mistakes and was a ran~ opportunity to not embarrass the Mustangs by get away with it. I don't want showcase their talents. They seoring even more. our team to labor under the are the walkons and the young 
That the Irish took four de­impression that we can get future stars who must practice lay-of-game penalties to keep away with it." every day but are not quite themselves from seoring was One return not botched was ready to walk into tlw prime obvious enough. but Rusty by Hicky Watters in the second time spotlight with Tony Hice. Setzer's run out of bounds quarter. Watters fielded a 54-Chris Zorkh and thn rest of tlw when he had a clear shot at the yard punt by SMU's Casey Clyce big names. nndzone made Notre Dame's in­at the Notre Dame thme-yard Hod West. a snnior who has tPntions all too dear. line and took off down the right had some mnmorabln monwnts 
"I wanted to score and I sideline. breaking three tackles in the past but nPvPr made eould have," Setzer said. and avoiding Clyce as he scored earth-shattering headlines, is "Coach (Lou) Holtz told us that Notre Dame's sixth return one such player. West lined up we could run up and down the touchdown of thn season. at fullback. a position he has field. but lw didn't want us to Watters' 97-yard effort was occasionally played in prarticP scon~. IIP told me he was proud the longest punt return in Irish and in games, and barwiiPd of me for doing what I did. I history. breaking the mark of one yard for his first carPPr will be hPre two more years and 95 yards, set way back in 1909 touchdown in tlw fourth quar-I will have many more opportu­by Hed Miller. lie has three ca-The Observer/E.G. Bailey ter. nities to scon1." 
Defensive end Scott Kowalkowski admires teammate D'Juan"It was the honorable thing see SMU I page 16 Francisco's handiwork at the expense of SMU's Michael Bowen. see WEST I page 17 
Season ends just a little too early 
NO men's cross country team fails to qualify for NCAAs 
By MARY GARINO national NCAA champion, who finished !15th. were hin­Sports Writer Wisconsin, was third. dered by medical problems. Western Michigan and Loyola O'Rourke had a swollen 
Notre Dame's ninth-ranked of Chicago, two teams the Irish achilles, and Coyle had been ill men's cross country team went had beaten this season, also the week prior to the raeP·. into Saturday's District IV meet placed ahead of Notre Dame. "We didn't run that well, ex­with high hopes for a berth in Jesse McGuire, a senior from cept Mike, Byan and Pat," said the NCAA Championship Meet. Western Michigan. was the ()'Bourke. "If we had run the 
But by the time the last Irish overall winner of the race with way we're eapable of. we would runner crossed the finish line. a time of 30:18. have qualified." the team's season had come to The results looked promising O'Rourke pointed out that the a disappointing finish. for the Irish as Mike O'Connor district race was over six miles, 
In the overcast weather at and Hyan Cahill both ran while the regular season meets Ypsilanti, Mich., the Irish fin­strong races and finished in the were only five miles. lie also ished in sixth place out of 29 top 20. Pat Kearns was 21st, suggested that the pressure of 
teams in the district meet, fail­but then the bottom fell out. such a big race may have af­ing to qualify for the NCAAs for The next runners to cross the fected the Irish.
~k~, 
the first time in three years. finish line were Tom ()'Bourke, Irish coach .Joe Piane offernd Central Michigan, a team in 54th place. and Mike Drake no excuses for the team's poor 
.\\~~•n 
.•f}... --.-N\'--• 
Notre Dame lost to earlier this in 56th. Freshman .J.T. Burke, performance.
The Observer I File Photo 

year, won the meet with 80 the usual second runner for the "We lost this race; nobody 
Coach Joe Piane's ninth-ranked Notre Dame cross country squad points by placing five runners Irish, was 89th. beat us," Piane said. "Central finished a disappointing sixth in the District IV regional meet and failed in the top 25. Ball State finished Two Irish runners. ()'Bourke to qualify for the NCAAs for the first time in three years. second, while last year's and John Coyle, a freshman see DISTRICT I page 18 
Hoops 
Williams, Irish top Israel club, page 14

-
lnterhall 
Flanner defends soccer title, page 13 
Split 
Volleyball goes 1-1 at JACC, page 18 

ND hockey team sweeps Michigan-Dearborn 
By KEN TVSIAC Irish on Friday night, as he puck into the right side of the consecutive power plays. Kuehl 
scored three goals in the sec­net. tipped a Dan Sawyer blast from 
ond period and four in the Kuehl added another late the point past Church on the 
game. Freshman Dan Marvin first-period goal, and the Irish first and poked a reQound into 
After recording only one win added two goals and one assist went to the locker room with a the open net on the second to in six games against Michigan for coach Ric Schafer's squad. 3-1lead. give the Irish an insurmount­Dearborn last year, the Notre "I think I shot the puck a to­After the teams traded goals, able 6-2 lead. Dame hockey team had some­tal of ten feet on my four a scuffle occurred which "What a game it was for Tim thing to prove in this weekend's goals," Kuehl said. "I was just changed the complexion of the Kuehl," said Schafer. "I talked home-and"away series versus in the right place at the right game. Dearborn goalie Dave about creating scoring oppor­the Wolves. time." Church took exception to the tunities; well. tonight was Tim 
The Irish made their point Dearborn drew first blood on way Guay crashed the net for a Kuehl's night to be the finisher. quite convincingly at the Joyce .Joe Mocnik's power play goal rebound, and a wild shoving We work hard to create those ACC with a 9-4 trouncing on just 53 seconds into the game, match ensued. When it was opportunities, and' it's nice to Friday night. They added an but the Irish quickly tied it up over, Guay was fiat on his back see them result in goals.~ exclamation point when they and then took the lead at 16:43 behind the net with three The Irish continued working came from behind Saturday in of the first period. Center Dearborn players on top of for their opportunities Dearborn to score a thrilling 6-Sterling Black stole the puck at him. Saturday night, but they 4 victory and improve their the Dearborn blue line, skated The referees apparently felt weren't able to cash them in record to 5-1 on the season. down the left side and slid a that the Wolves were responsi­until late in the game. 
Captain Tim Kuehl provided nifty pass across to senior ble for most of the dirty work most of the firepower for the Bruce Guay, who banged the and awarded Notre Dame two see HOCKEY I page 13 
Sports Writer 








