----------------~----~---------------------------------------------------------~ 

VOL. XXIII NO. 26 MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Thousands of East Germans welcomed into West Germany 
Associated Press with joy. Others cheered and vision he hoped for a "parallel dapped. solution" for the latest East 
IIOF. West Germany -In Prague and Warsaw, East Germans at the embassy in Thousands of East Germans Germans who heard of the exo­Prague. reeeived a triumphal weleome dus raced to railroad stations, The new arrivals follow the in West Germany Sunday after some arriving in time to jump more than 24,000 East their government agreed to let on board the trains. West Germans who have fled through them flee to the West. It was German news reports and wit­Hungary since Sept. 10, when the latest chapter in a historic nesses said more East Germans the reform-minded Communist exodus ·from a divided Soviet were rushing in their ears to­government in Budapest de­bloc. ward Czechoslovakia and at cided to open its border. 
"We made it, we made it!" least 200 were once again fill­Hard-line East Germany re­screamed one tearful young ing the embassy in Prague. luctantly agreed to the exodus woman after arriving in this Up to 100 more East and trains began shuttling northern Bavarian eity at Germans assembled at the West refugees from Prague late dawn. German Embassy in Warsaw on Saturday. Trains from Poland 
"We had no future there," Sunday. arrived on Sunday. said 34-year-old Uwe Kuester Foreign Minister Hans­The East German government of Cottbus. Dietrich Genscher of West insisted the refugees from 
/\bout 6,000 refugees either Germany indicated in a televi­Prague and Warsaw had been arrived or were on their way sion interview late Sunday that "expelled." from Czechoslovakia, border West Germany was talking with On Sunday the East German police said, and another 800 East Germany about passage to Foreign Ministry accused West arrived from Poland. the West for the new refugees. Germany of "damaging inter­
The refugees began gathering '"Also in the future, we will national norms" by giving East weeks ago in the West German use all our powers and possibil­Germans refuge inside Bonn's embassies in Warsaw and ities to help those (seeking embassies in Prague and Prague after they wert: unable refuge}, as we have done in the Warsaw in the first place, the to reach Hungary, a liberal past and up until the last sev­government's ADN television Warsaw Pact nation that had eral hours," Genscher said in reported. opened its western border to the interview with the ZDF tele­As part of the agreement with the East Germans last month. vision network. 
Many of those arriving wept Genscher later told ARD tele-see REFUGEE 1page 4 ._e_n_d_l_es_s_co_n_t_ro_v_e_rs_y__at_t_h_e_u_ni_v_e_rs_it_y_.---------------1 
Smoking issues not a hot topic at NO, but debate smolders 
By JOHN O'BRIEN doesn't designate certain areas priate. "The residents of Lyons and added, "I think it could be said that her program puts lit­News Copy Editor of residence halls as smoke-will vote on a referendum allowed in public places as long tle emphasis on tobacco smok­1free. "The rector within each sometime this week which will as it doesn't offend anyone." ing and thus, there is little in­
While the issues of aleohol hall has the right· to do that," decide where smoking will be "It comes down to a matter formation regarding the num­and drug use receive much at­she said. allowed," she said. of consideration for those ber of smokers on campus. tention on campus. the question Father Joseph Ross, rector of According to Jochman, the around you who don't smoke," Kelly, however, gave a per­of smoking and smoking regu­Morrissey Hall, said that there residents will be asked to de­Lenehan said. sonal observation of groups of lations does not appear to be is no smoking allowed in halls cide if smoking should be al­Peggy Crooks, a freshman at students with whom she has nearly as prominent.. and common areas such as the lowed in public places such as Lyons who smokes, said that talked and said, "only one indi­
"There isn't any campus-wide lobby. "The policy is based on halls, bathrooms, and the Lair, there should at least be a des­vidual smokes in a group of 20 policy" regarding smoking, said cooperation and consideration Lyons' 24-hour lounge. They ignated smoking area: "It's not or 25." Linda Sumner, manager for of the common good. If some­also will vote on the option of fair to us to make us go outside "I also asked the same stu­employee relations and train­one's smoking is bothering smoking in private rooms if all when it's 50 below. At least 20 dents how many had parents ing. someone else. staff will ask the roommates agree, Jochman girls smoke in the dorm." who either smoke or have quit 
"That fact in itself suggests them to stop." said. Crooks said that she did not smoking and about 60 percent that it isn't a big issue here," "Being able to smo~e-is not a Elizabeth Vida, a freshman in receive much trouble about her responded," said Kelly. "I think said Kelly Havens, a doetoral right, but having a smoke-free Lyons, said "I think smoking smoking, because she was a that some of the things that trainee at University Counseling environment is," said Ross. should be allowed in individual "closet smoker," and added, "A we're doing regarding educa­Center. Sister Jeannine Jochman, rooms, but only if the non­lot of people here smoke that tion as it relates to cigarette 
Director of Student rector of Lyons Hall, said that smoking roomates agree." nobody knows about." smoking has had an impact on Hesidences Evei'yn Reinebold her policy is to let the students Celine Lenehan, a Lyons Carolyn Kelly, coordinator of said that her department decide where smoking is appro-sophomore, agreed with Vida Alcohol and Drug· Education, see SMOKING I page 6 
Chinese gov't carefully celebrates anniversary 
Associated Press week pro-democracy movement the military crushed in June, 
BEIJING -China celebrated its was again filled with youths,40th anniversary Sunday with a but this time they were partyspectacular fireworks show followers. above Tiananmen Square and A 26-foot-tall statue depictingtight security to prevent a worker, peasant, intellectual protests reminiscent of the and soldier was displayed at crushed pro-democracy move­the north end of the square on ment. the same spot where the 
Senior leader Deng Xiaoping, student protesters erected their 
85, headed the dignitaries who "Goddess of Democracy," a watched the show, which in­torch-bearing woman based on cluded several hundred thou­the Statue of Liberty. 
sand dancers, from the The square was bathed in rostrum of Tiananmen Gate. spotlights, neon signs that said 
It was on that rostrum on "1949-1989" and "Long Live Oct. 1, 1949, that Mao Tse-tung the Motherland," and a fire­declared the founding of the works show that lasted more People's Republic of China, the than three hours. 
world's most populous Com­There also were dance shows 
munist state. and fireworks at eight other lo­Chinese Premier Li Peng, third from left, and Communist Party General Secretary Jiang Zemin, fourth from The square, occupied by cations in Beijing. left, attend a National Day rally celebrating 40 years of Communist rule on Friday in Beijing's Great Hall of the thousands of students and their 
see CHINA I page 6 

People. Story at right. supporters during the seven-


page 2 

WORLD BRIEFS 
Nicaraguans began registering Sunday to vote in February's national elections as American congressmen and other observers watched for evidence of fraud. Nearly 5,000 booths na­tionwide were opened to register the estimated 1.9 million voters. President Daniel Ortega was the first in line at the booth serving his area. 
About 1 ,000 people in Manila, Philippines loyal to Ferdinand Marcos marched through the capital on Sunday and demanded that President Corazon Aquino allow the late leader's body to be buried in his homeland. Mrs. Aquino said Sunday she will follow any Supreme Court order to allow the return of Marcos' body. but was confident the justices would support her ban. 
An earthquake in southwestern Iran early Sunday caused heavy destruction and landslides that damaged at least 300 houses, the official Islamic Republic News Agency reported. There were no immediate reports of casualties from relief teaf!!S that were rushed to the region, the agency added. The news agency. monitored in Nicosia, said the quake measured 5.1 on the Hichter scale. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
An unapproved drug popular in underground efforts to fight the AIDS virus since it showed promise in the laboratory is apparently ineffective in the body, according to a medical journal report. In the Oct. 1 issue of the Annals of Internal Medicine, re­searchers report on the use of dextran sulfate in 18 healthy volun­teers. saying that after administering the drug orally and intra­venously, they found only traces of any activity by the drug. 
A woman who gave birth in an airplane bathroom 
and stuffed the infant in a wastebasket won't go to jail until December because she is expecting another baby soon, officials said. Christina LoCasto of New York City was to begin a six­month jail term Oct. 14, but a San Mateo County Superior Court judge decided Friday that her sentence should begin after the birth of her fourth child, due in mid-October. 
The Dan Ryan Expressway was reopened Sunday. provid­ing some relief for Chicago area motorists who have suffered from a two-year traffic headache as a result of the $250 million rehabilitation, the largest such project in state history. The pro­ject was completed a month ahead of schedule, state officials an­nounced during a reopening ceremony on the highway. 
An extremely potent form of heroin that appeared in San Francisco recently has caused dozens of overdoses and one death and is overwhelming hospitals, officials said Saturday. At least 42 people have overdosed on the Mexican black tar heroin since Friday morning. and doctors are barely able to handle all the pa­tients crowding the hallways, said Dr. Ronald Dieckman, emer­gency room physician at San Francisco General Hospital, where 38 of the victims were treated. 
Oral sex can transmit the AIDS virus. according to the San Franciso Health Department, which has documented the first two cases. "If people have bargained that oral sex is what they're going to do and stay uninfected, we now have direct evidence that it can happen," Dr. George Rutherford. director of the depart­ment's AIDS office, said Friday. 
WEATHER 
[ 
.. ---~ 
Sunny 

liJ Partly sunny today. High in the middle 70s. Mostly clear and cooler tonight with the low in the middle 40s. Partly sunny but cooler tomor­row. High in the middle 60s. 
ALMANAC 
On October 2: e In 1835: The first battle of the Texas Revolution took place 
as American settlers defeated Mexican cavalry ncar the Guadalupe River. e In 1919: President Wilson suffered a stroke that left him partially paralyzed. e In 1941: German armies began Operation Typhoon -an all-out drive against Moscow. e In 1950: The comic strip "Peanuts," created by Charles Schulz, was first published in nine newspapers. 
e In 1975: President Ford welcomed Japan's Emperor Hi­rohito to the U. S. 
MARKET UPDATE 
M•rk•t Updete for October 1, 1989 


Votume in shares 
184,728,050 
NYSE Index  
193.97  {} 0.42  
S&P Composite  
349.15  {} 0.55  

Dow Jones Industrials 
2,692.82 {7 2.09 
Precious Metals Gold {7 $0.90 to $367.20 I oz. Silver {7 0.04¢ to $5.226 1oz. 

Source: AP 
lnformat1on comp1led from Observer w1res and Observer staff reports 
--------~---------------------­
Monday, October 2, 1989
The Observer 

Cutting funds to 'offensive' art isn't censorship 
The definition of "art" has never been clear­
cut, and it got even more vague last week on 
Capitol Hill. 
House and Senate negotiators reached a com­promise agreement Friday that would ban fed­eral funding for art deemed obscenf;) and lacking in significant literary or artistic merit. 
That's a tall order. Letting legislators decide how the government's money is spent is one thing. but having them judge artistic merit is another. 
This congressional discussion started when some conservatives objected to two exhibitions sponsored by the National Endowment for the Arts. I suppose that's why the NEA will deter­mine whether a work is obscene. 
The federally sponsored showings included photos depicting children in erotic poses in ho­mosexual and sadomasochistic themes and a photo of a crucifix in a jar of urine. 
The agreement Friday would deny federal funds to art that depicts sexual acts. sado­masochism, homosexuality or the sexual ex­ploitation of children. One needn't be schooled in art to recognize those things as offensive. 

But what is art, anyway? Webster's Second New Riverside Dictionary calls it "the activity of using imagination and skill to create beautiful things." OK, so what is beauty? "A quality or a combination of qualities that delights the senses or appeals to the mind." 
By this definition, art isn't limited to museum exhibits. Are magazine photographs art? Are buildings and parks art? Is a steak dinner art? Tell me and we'll both know. 
Why shouldn't sadomasochism, homosexuality and sexual exploitation be considered offensive? For most Americans, those things delight neither the senses nor appeal to the mind. 
Most folks would agree that obscene art more or less lacks significant merit. But who can de­termine what "significant artistic merit" is? 
Here's where it gets complicated. 

. The definition of art is vague because it varies from person to person. What is beautiful for one person may be ugly for another. Something that Jack thinks is extraordinary may be ordinary to Jill. 
The point is, one cannot compare Picasso to Michelangelo. People who like Matisse may dis­like Degas. Art is the most subjective thing in the world. It's impossible to make objective decisions about it. 
OF INTEREST 
The Fourth Annual Multicultural 
Festival will be Monday-Friday. from 12:00 to 
1:00 p.m. at the Fieldhouse Mall. ND ethnic or­ganizations will share their culture as part of "Culture on the Quad." Ethnic music and danc­ing will follow with "Entertainment on the Quad" at 4:30 pm. 

'The government 
isn't censoring art. It 
is merely choosing 
what art it wants to 
support.' 
Ali Regis Coccia Managing Editor 

Congress has taken on a bigger task than it can handle with this latest decision. Fortunately, however, the House and Senate arc talking about only the art that Uncle Sam chooses to support. 
The decision would ban federal funding for art that is considered obscene or without merit; it doesn't ban the work itself. The House and Senate agreement will not hurt art; it will only prevent taxpayer dollars from supporting what a majority of Americans view as indecent. 
No doubt there will be an outcry over the deci­sion, calling it censorship of art. And that's too bad. because the government isn't censoring art. It is merely choosing what art it wants to sup­port. 
Isn't the decision usually left to whomever holds the purse? ~fter all, you should get what you pay for. 
Art. and obscenity. I'll venture, means different things to different people. I find paintings and photographs of nudes more distasteful than ob­scene, for example. But others may interpret them as admirable works of art or just plain ob­scene. 
Some things, however. are the same no matter whose eyes view them. Works that depict sado­masochism. homosexuality or sexual exploita­tion are offensive. 
Whether such works have any significant artistic merit is for artists and art critics to de­cide. 
Whether such works should be shown at the taxpayers' expense is for the government to de­cide. 
The public shouldn't worry that the govern­ment is getting too big for its legislative britches. If Congress starts to act as censor, the people will let it know. 
As for federally sponsored art exhibitions, you should get what you pay for. 
Professional Training Centers, Inc., a Chicago based software company, will hold a meeting for seniors interested in employment opportunities.The meeting will be in Room 303 Haggar at St. Mary's at 7:00 p.m. 
Design Editors ............... Tricia Grohman ........................................................Joe Zadrozny Design Assistant Wendy Cunningham Typesetter .............................. Amalia Meier .......................................................... Dan Towers Assistant News Edltor...... Tim O'Keefe News Copy Editor....... Sandra Weigand Sports Copy Editor ............. Greg Guffey VIewpoint Editor ................... Mike Truppa Velwpolnt Copy Edtlor......... Kim Skiles Viewpoint Layout.. ....... Melissa Gorham Accent Edltor .................. Robyn Simmons Accent Copy Editor .....0 ............ Liz Havel Accent Designer ................ Allison Cocks Photographer....................... Kevin Weise Business Editor ...................... Liz Panzica Business Copy Editor. Lauren DuLuca Business Layout_ Maureen Gallagher Ad Designers .................. Shannon Roach .................................. Kerry Clair, Maria Blohm ........................ Ryan Roberts,Jeanne Naylor 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer !USPS 599 2-4000) IS published Monday through Fnday excepl aunnq exam and vaca11on penods The Observer IS published by studenls ol lh£> Un1ver~rly of Notre Dame and Samt Mary's College. Subscnpt1ons may be pur chased for S40 per year (S25 per semesler) by wnt1ng The Observer 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghh rue reservP.c1 
................................................................ 

Observer classifieds will be accepted from
Happy Birthday · Today is Laura S.'s birthday. Calf her up 

9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314
and wish her a happy one. By the way Laura,we do expect to see you dancing
11 LaFortune.
on pool tables tonight. 
ll 

q .. 


Don't drink
~ 
and drive 
5£t Dl~:
D(IV£ 


Bakker returns to the stand after 'devastating' session 

Happy 21st Birthday, Sean! 
WeJre Banking 
WE LOVE YOU,

on your Career Success. 
Mom, Dad, Jen, Mopsy, & Eclipse 

W
e ar~ Manufacturers. National Corporation, a major Detroit-based regional bank 
holdmg company w1th close to 6,000 employes and assets of $9.3 billion. Our corporation provides a wide variety of financial services to customers worldwide through the corporation's banking and subsidiary offices. 



*************
Representatives of Manufacturers National Bank of Detroit (our principal subsidiary) 
.. W E S T Y L E A M E R C A" will be conducting campus interviews for career opportunities within the Metro Detroit area at Notre Dame University on Wednesday, October 18, 1989. 
We will seek individuals who have a Bachelors degree in a business related field. We offer a wide variety of exciting and challenging career opportunities for: 
• 
Cost & Financial Analysts in our Controllers Department 

• 
Corporate Trust Analysts in our Trust Department 


Shears

• Examiners in our Audit Department 
atSears®

• Credit Analysts in our Commercial Lending Area 
HAIR SALON 
Oporated by GLEMBY 

Explore career possibilities with us. Contact your placement office to arrange an on-campus interview. Fall Into a Great New Look 
Perm Wave or 
$25


"High Flying Colors" Highlights ONLY 
Perm Waves include haircut, shampoo & style. Highlights include sh.:~mpoo & style. DeSigner perms not included 
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/HN University Park Mall 277-4800 ext.498 SEARS 
Offer good September 17-October 28 =-~~. 
Monday, October 2, 1989 
Kernan aids victims of Hurricane Hugo 
By SANDY WIEGAND 
News Copy Editor 
Aid to South Carolina victims of Hurricane Hugo was pro­vided through Mayor Joe Kernan. who sent 15 park de­partment workers there last week. 
The mayor's two assistants are among those sent. a secre­tary said. 
Two trucks from a local leas­ing company were sent, and lo­cal banks donated money to the cause. Money and non-perish­able foods were collected at Coveleski Regional Stadium. 
Rich Daly, lJ.Ssistant director of alumni clubs, said that the Council of Mayors is still asking for donations for the victims, including building supplies, canned goods, and clothing, all of which can be dropped off at Coveleski Stadium. 
Associated Press 
CHAHLOTTE, N.C. -Jim Bakker returns to the stand for more cross-examination at his fraud trial today, after a ses­sion last week that even his de­fense lawyer says was "very devastating" to his case. . 
Bakker, charged with 24 counts of fraud and conspiracy related to his handling of fi­nances at the television min­istry, testified Friday that he never defrauded anyone or con­spired with others at PTL to commit fraud. lie is expected to wind up his testimony Monday. 
The case probably will go to the jury late this week. 
George Davis, Bakker's lead defense attorney, didn't appear confident that Bakker's testi­mony Friday had convinced the jury his client is innocent. 
"That was a pretty heavy cross-examination," the 82­year-old Davis told the Greensboro News & Record when asked how he thought the questioning had gone. "It was very damaging, very devastat­ing." 
He smiled weakly and added, "It didn't have anything to do 
.

Daly recetvod a call last week from a member of the Notre Dame alumni club in Charleston, South Carolina. Daly offered the assistance of the Notre Dame community, and later tho president of the club called him back, accepting the offer. Daly contacted Jim Roemer, director of community rela­tions,· who called the mayor and urged him to design a plan for aid to the victims. A Red Cross employee, O.K. Bell, is looking for Notre Dame students from the Charleston area to help raise money for the victims. "I would hope that Notre Dame students could mobilize under the leadership of South Carolina and Puerto Rican stu­dents for food and money col­lection," said Jim Roemer about the Red Cross plan. 
A sunny aurumn The Observer/Kevin Weise 
Residents of Lewis Hall participate in some friendly intra-hall competition Sunday at the hall's "Surfin' Sunday" cookout. Warmer weather this weekend made outdoor activities which are often difficult in October pleasant. 
with the issues, but ... " 
Several episodes during Friday's testimony indicated Bakker's team may have been caught off-guard. 
In one instance, a defense chart was ruled inadmissible partly because it summarized information not in evidence. 
In several other instances, Bakker claimed he had told viewers on his television shows that some changes would be made in the PTL lodging pro­grams at issue in the charges against him. 
But he was unable to say 
when he made the announce­for accommodations for more ments, even though the defense than 211,000 "lifetime part­has had access for several ners" for PTL. months to the same PTL video­
tapes and program summaries Lifetime partnerships are the that the government has. PTL lodging benefits at issue in the fraud charges. PTL offered During three hours of cross­contributors free lodging at ho­examination, Bakker answered tels at PTL's Heritage USA re­"I don't remember" or its treat -typically three nights equivalent more than three each year for life -in exchange dozen times. for contributions, typically 
$1,000. During his initial testimony, Bakker said that when he left Bakker is accused of exceed­PTL in March 1987, he had ing the announced limits on the built, was building or had plans number of partnerships. 

------~------------­

Boy giant arrives at 
U.S. for treatment 
"She  is  a  mother,"  said  
Sahulenko.  "What else  could  
she do?"  

Associated Press 
ROCHESTER, Minn. -At 7, Igor Ladan is already about 6 feet tall and weighs 200 pounds. He's come thousands of miles from his native Soviet Union in hopes doctors can re­move a dangerous tumor from his skull and stop his abnormal growth. 
Mayo Clinic surgeons plan to remove a rare pituitary gland tumor from the boy doctors call a "pituitary giant." 
Igor and his mother, Svitlana Ladan, arrived here three weeks ago after she waged a worldwide letter-writing cam­paign from her native city of Kiev to find treatment for her son. The costs of the boy's care are being donated. 
"I was so happy, I nearly died," Ladan said last week through a translator. 
"People think 6 feet, not 6
The Observer/Kevin Wiese
Finding direction 
years," said Nina Sahulenko, a 
relative from Phoenix who is

Chris Meko a Notre Dame student and ROTC member, takes a compass reading Saturday. _Meko _at­
translating for the Ladans.

tended a l~nd navigation course at Camp Custer, Michigan where he learned a number of skillS which 
"But he's still a child. lie likes

will prove useful throughout his ROTC career. 
Refugees 
continued from page 1 
West Germany that was an­nounced Saturday night, the East Germans had to travel in state-run trains back through their former Communist home­land as a face-saving measure for the government. 
Czechoslovakia, also with a hard-line government, had vowed that it would not allow the refugees to leave for the West from Czechoslovakia. 
Still, the action represented an embarrassing retreat for the aging leadership in East Berlin, which had severely crit­icized Hungary's action. 
The once-unthinkable exodus of East Germans reflects dra­matic changes in the Soviet bloc and a growing disunity among its member states. 

Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, the galvanizing force for reforms sweeping much of Eastern Europe, will visit East Berlin Friday and Saturday for celebrations of East Germany's 40th anniver­sary. 
llis talks with East German leader Erich Honecker are ex­pected to deal with the exodus, which has threatened the na­tion's already demoralized work force. 
"I hope that Gorbachev, dur­ing his talks with the leaders of (East Germany) will try to con­vince them that political re­forms arn also in the interest of the German Democratic Hepublic," said Genscher. 
A high-ranking Soviet official was quoted by the West German Die Welt newspaper as saying Moscow welcomed East Germany's decision to allow the weekend exodus. 
Valentin Falin, head of the Soviet Central Committee's in­ternational relations section, also said he believed Gorbachev will travel to East Berlin with important messages for both German governments, Die Welt said. There was no elaboration. 
East Berlin emphasized it ex­pected the latest exodus to be a one-time event, after which West Germany would return to "normal international cus­toms" at its embassies. 
In Prague, police initially sur­rounded the West German em­bassy to block newly arrived East Germans from scaling a spiked fence into the muddy grounds. But the embassy later 
again  began  letting  East  
Germans  back  into  the  em­ 
bassy.  


r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 
I AN EVENING OF 
The Department of Non-Varsity Athletics
ISCOTTISH MUSIC 
I PRESENTED BY THE MICHIANA SCOTTISH SOCIETY 
NEEDS EXPERIENCED
I The Fort Wayne Scottish Pipes and Drums 
WATER AEROBIC 
I Nancy Eversole, The Kentucky Woman :::: 
INSTRUCTORS 
John:::::,~::~::::~~::ar~r ~i 
·:·: 

$8.00 PER HOUR
ISaturday, Oct. 14, 1989 BENDIX THEATER r 
7 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. e.s.t. Century Center. lll! I Tick~ts: $s.oo 120 s. st. Joseph f CONTACT SANDY AT 239-59651:1:!::_::_
($1 dtscountfor South Bend IN ~~jj 8:00 am -5:00 pm
I College Students, · ' ) 1 :\::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
J..--.i~~..fg__~~L--~~~~~~~~ h5.U:ss:!5S31:ss:!5.U:ss:!5.U~_,~_,~_,~.,~~'-'Sll 
St. Mary's Student Government 
presents: 

Fall Fest -This Week!! 
to play. When there are children around, he will find those his
Bavarian border police 
own age."
spokesman Klaus Pappenfuss Like other kids, Igor lovessaid six trains were bringing apple juice and gum andthe more than 6,000 refugees 
bananas and ice cream, she
from Prague during the course said. And like other kids, heof the day. 
reveled in the surprise birthday party his new friends inWell-wishers handed out bot­Rochester had when he turnedtles of wine, champagne and 7 recently. 
fruit as the East Germans dis­Igor is taking drugs to shrinkembarked in Hof. Red Cross the tumor from its tennis-ballvolunteers distributed hot tea, dimensions to a size that doc­noodle soup, baby food and di­tors hope will allow surgicalapers to the refugee families .. 
removal in about three months.
Several former East 
The benign but still danger­Germans, who had fled earlier ous tumor at the base of histo the West from Hungary, car­brain, as well as his unusualried a banner that read: size, are caused by an overpro­duction of growth hormone by
"We got out through 
the pituitary gland. 
Hungary and you made it Igor seemed normal at birth,through Prague. Soon the zone according to the family, but by(East Germany) will be an six months, he was the size of a empty coffin." 
1-year-old. At one year, he was equivalent to a 3-year-old. 
When doctors in Kiev and Moscow had no treatment, Igor's mother wrote to the Hed Cross in Switzerland. which ad­vised her to write to doctors and hospitals in eountries sueh as England and the United States. 
"There were times she thought it was the end of the world," said Sahulenko, who is staying with the Ladans in spe­cial housing for ehildrcn under­going treatment at the elinie. 
But letter followed letter, in­quiry after inquiry. 
The glasnost-era easing of travel and other restrictions on Soviet citizens also helped, she said. "Otherwise he'd never be here." 
The family eventually was m­ferred to the Mayo Clinic and Dr. Donald Zimmerman, a pe­diatric cndoerinologist they now call "the miraele doctor." 
Because the family lacks money and insurance, Zimmerman asked the clinic to absorb the costs of Igor's eare, and a pharmaeeutical house agreed to donate medicine. 
"People have been so good since the moment she stepped from the airplane," Sahulenko said. "That is something won­derful in Ameriea." 
After the operation, radiation and follow-up drug therapy should complete the removal of the tumor and stop the exeess production of growth hormone, a Mayo Clinic spokeswoman said Sunday. 
Zimmerman said last week that the boy's overall health is good, although there is concern the tumor eould press on the optic nerves and interfere with his vision. 

Rainman showing in Carroll Auditorium 
Oct. 2-4 9:00 and 11:15 $1.00 admission 

Fall Fest Picnic on SMC Library Green tonight Juniors: sponsor classmates in CROP WALK-$1.00 from Jr. Board per walker Sign ups Wednesday and Thursda during dinner 
Monday, October 2, 1989 
The Observer page 5 

AP Photo 

Rep. Bill Archer, a Texas Republican, is surrounded by reporters as he talks on the telephone to President Bush from Capitol Hill Thursday concerning the passage of the capital gains tax reduction plan. Bush, unaware that reporters were listening in, criticized House Majority Leader Richard Gephart for what he termed "personal" arguments against a capital gains tax cut. Story below. 
Senate leader believes he can kill President's capital gains tax cut 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell said Sunday he has the votes to defeat the House­passed version of President Bush's capital gains tax cut, a measure he likened to crack co­caine. 
However, Mitchell acknowl­edged that a revised version might have enough support to win narrow approval because Bush's "irresponsible position ... makes it extremely difficult to prevent any tax cut from oc­curring." 
Interviewed on NBC-TV's "Meet the Press," the Maine Democrat said he is positive the 27 -month capital gains tax cut approved by the House last week will not be enacted by the Senate. 
"It is so bad, so wrong for the economy," he said. "It will do for the deficit what crack does for the user: a quick short high followed by a long, painful depression." 
The measure would reduce from 33 percent to 19.6 percent the maximum tax rate on prof­its from the sale of stocks and other investments until 1992. The rate then would climb back to 28 percent with assets in­dexed so that any gains at­tributed to inflation after that point would not be taxed. 
Its attractiveness to lawmak­ers stems from predictions by economists that a selloff by in­vestors rushing to cash in on the low-rate window would generate $9.4 billion in addi­tional tax revenue over the next three years. 
U NIVERSIJY OF NO.raE::I:)AMI; ·.. 
SUMMER·ENGINEERINGFoiii~~NSTlJD~:.w.:iJ:u:::•• 

in·········.·.·· .•. ····...· ...• .··•·····• . > ··••·•· ·.··•··.... . < 

LONDOlf,·•••••••••·ElfQk~lfQ••••••:i••••••••••••••••·••••·•····•···•••····· 
INFORMATION MEETING: 
<·· ...·..·.·-: 
Wednesday, O¢tober 4, 1989 Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
7:00 p.m. < < . 
. ..· .. 

ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 
After then, however, the rev­enues would fall dramatically and actually worsen the deficit by a total of $21 billion over the following five years, ac­cording to Congress' Joint Committee on Taxation. 
''I'm confident that this so-called yo-yo -on two years, off two years -and the way in which it's constructed cannot pass," Mitchell said. "There's a growing realization that it will be bad for the economy ... and will do nothing for the future of this country." 
While saying he personally opposes any cut in capital gains taxes now, Mitchell acknowl­edged that many members of his party favor enacting a dif­ferential that would tax capital gains at a lower rate than wages, interest or dividend in­come. 
"Whether or not they will co­alesce behind any plan along with Republicans, I don't know," he said. "It will be very close on some other plan." 
A majority of Senate Democrats have .united behind an alternative plan proposed by Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, D-Texas, to restore up to $1,000 a year of tax deductibility for contribu­tions to Individual Retirement Accounts. IRA deductibility ended in 1987 under'.the loop­hole-closing tax law a year earlier that also raised the rate on capital gains. 
House Democratic leaders tried the same IRA substitute, but linked it to an increase in taxes on families with incomes of more than $145,000 a year. 
Mitchell said Senate Democrats will not link their IRA proposal to such an in­crease, but rather will propose to make up revenue lost to ex­panded IRA deductions by ex­tending telephone and other ex­cise taxes that were due to ex­pire at the end of this year. 

Meanwhile, House Speaker Thomas Foley predicted on the same program that the House probably will vote this week to repeal Medicare catastrophic health care coverage that it en­acted last year for some 33 million elderly Americans. 
Many beneficiaries, especially the wealthier among them, have balked at having to pay premiums this year of up to $800 to help cover medical expenses for retirees of more modest means. 
"I hope personally that the program is retained on a modified form," said Foley, D-Wash. "But ... there are a great number of Republicans and some Democrats in the House who are in favor of repeal. If I were guessing today, I think it probably would be repealed." 
Foley also said it is doubtful that Congress will complete action on a deficit-reduction bill, which would include any tax measure, before the Oct. 16 deadline. 
That is the date broad spending cuts in both military and domestic programs would be triggered automatically unless Congress comes up with $6 billion in new revenues or program cuts for reducing the budget deficit for fiscal year 1990, which began Sunday. 
Doctor and wife arrested after sex to_ur of campuses 
Associated Press 
EUGENE, Ore. -A physician and his wife face prostitution­related charges for allegedly conducting a phony research project that included a sex tour of West Coast college cam­puses. 
Rodney Wood, 60, of South Hampton, N.Y., was scheduled to appear in court this week on a charge of promoting prosti­tution; his wife, Nancy Wood, 44, was charged with prostitu­tion, Eugene police Sgt. Rick Gilliam said last week. 
Police say Rodney Wood pho­tographed encounters between his wife and young men. 
A 19-year-old University of Oregon student who allegedly participated in a "research" session with the Woods is also charged with prostitution. 
The couple visited the Oregon campus two weeks ago, telling male students they were "evaluating the sexual potential of the mature female" and would pay participants for tak­ing part in research sessions, Gilliam said. 
Nancy Wood distributed "letters of introduction" ex­plaining the supposed research project to young men on cam­pus, Gilliam said. Men were promised $10 for each orgasm either participant had during the session, he said. 

Police were tipped by two students and an officer, posing as a student, contacted the couple at their hotel. They were charged Sept. 16. 
Police later found a list of schools including Oregon State University, the University of Washington, the University of Victoria, British Columbia, and the University of California at Berkeley, Gilliam said. 
"They were traveling the West Coast with major univer­sities on their itinerary," Gilliam said. "As I understand from a background check in New York, they're real affiuent and giving away this kind of money isn't going to hurt them any." 
"Because there was money exchanged for a sexual act, it was prostitution," Gilliam said. Police believe the couple were not doing sex research for an Oxford University project, as they claimed, but were exercis­ing their own interests, he said. 
The charge of promoting prostitution, a felony, carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison and a $100,000 fine. Prostitution, a misdemeanor, carries a maximum penalty of one year in jail and a $2,500 fme. 
Opposition leader arrested in Panama 
Associated Press 
PANAMA CITY -Ricardo Arias Calderon, a former oppo­sition candidate for vice presi­dent, and eight supporters were arrested Sunday by the Pana­manian police, an opposition coalition said. 
The Civic Democratic Opposi­tion Alliance said in a news re­lease that Arias and eight other members of his Christian Democratic Party were ar­rested while they toured the countryside campaigning for the ouster of Gen. Manuel Nor­iega, the country's military chief who controls the govern­ment. 
ADOC, as the opposition coalition is known by its Span­ish initials, said the nine were arrested in the western province of Veraguas on orders of the provincial attorney gen­
~need someonewith theron6denc.eofa~ 
thededicationoC · amarathoner andthe 
rourage ofanexplorer. 
We need a Peace Corps volunteer. Call us al t-800-424-8580, Ext. 93. 
PeaceCorps. 
11wiOII&ftd-pt.yc.'11norr.__ 

era! for alleged subversive ac­tivities. 
"We have received news indi­cating that Dr. Arias Calderon will be indicted during the night on charges of inciting civil dis­obedience, subversive activities and public disorder, as well as acting against the economic in­tegrity of the state," the news release said. 
It was signed by Guillermo Cochez and Arellano Lennox, two Christian Democratic Party leaders. The party is a member ADOC. 
Arias Calderon ran as one of two opposition vice presidential candidates in the May 7 na­tional elections on a ticket led by presidential candidate Guillermo Endara. The gov­ernment annulled the returns, which showed the opposition winning by a landslide. 
tlw J/oodunlt•rs f!{tl 11111Tif1111t' rlfl!lnwulh tmN/. /tnt•&.g htmdn'fL~ luJmt'il>s.'i. /!you rm/1 '>JIIIW 'ii'IIW !HJII' /(Jiu>/p yn/( o11qhf 111111' n<Juwwrl 
t:"C:+ 

Student -Alumni Relations Group Meetin·g 
For All New Members 
Monday 7:30p.m. Dooley Room 
The Observer Monday, October 2, 1989
New survey looks at important questions 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Do you put 
on both socks and then both 
shoes, or put a sock and shoe 
on one foot and then the other? 
!low often do you weigh 

yourself! 
When visiting a friend's house 

and the shower curtain is 
dosed, do you look behind it? 
While the better-known poll­

sters are asking Americans 
their political preferences or 
their thoughts on the great is­
sues of the world, a couple of 
New Yorkers are raising ques­
tions that inquiring minds re­
ally want answered. 
"We've always been compul­

sive, obsessive collectors of odd 
tidbits of information. How 
many people wear torn under­
wear under their expensive 
clothes? How many unmatched 
socks lie lonely in dresser 
drawers?" explain Mel Poretz 
and Barry Sinrod in their new 
book. 
Under the modest title ­

"The First Really Important 
Survey of American Habits" -
Poretz and Sinrod have com­
piled the answers to the ques­
tions that have been burning 
holes in their curiosity. 
They found, for example, that 

19 percent of Americans put 
both the sock and shoe on one 
foot first, then the other, as 
opposed to the more common 
way: both socks and then both 
shoes. 
Men were slightly more likely 

to go "sock-shoe, sock-shoe" 
then women. they found. 
After making that leap of faith, readers will learn that: 
China 
continued from page 1 
But the narrow streets around Tiananmen were de­serted as police and soldiers set up roadblocks to keep out all except local residents and those with passes to the square. 
It has been under military guard since soldiers backed by tanks marched on Beijing June 3-4 and drove the students from the square. Hundreds, perhaps thousands, of people died in the violence. 
Thousands of police and sol­diers patrolled the city Sunday in jeeps, on bicycle and on foot. Some were in riot gear and 
Smoking 
continued from page 1 
the younger generation." 
Sumner said that the University complies with state laws and Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) regula­tions that concern the environ­ment. "It's up to Risk Management and the Fire Department to enforce those rules," she said. 
According to Michael McCauslin, environmental health/safety specialist for the department of risk manage­ment and safety, state law pro­hibits smoking in areas near food. "There's no smoking in the dining halls or in food stor­age areas." 
McCauslin was unaware of any campus-wide policy regard­ing smoking, saying that he only deals with issues of safety. "I get involved from the stand­point of flammable materials, laboratories-things like that. We, in conjunction with the Fire Department may restrict smoking because of the pres­ence of flammable materials. 
-Only 7 percent of Americans admit looking behind a closed shower curtain when visiting a friends home and that such surreptitious glances are much more common among women aged 21 and 34, of whom one­fourth say they look behind the curtain. The man most likely to look is aged 45 to 54, they found. with one in 10 doing so. 
-37 percent of Americans never weigh themselves. Some 41 percent of women and 37 percent of men said they never step on the scales. About one in three checks weight weekly, while 14 percent do so more that four times a week. 

-67 percent of Americans say they spend less time in the bathroom than their mate does. The figure was the same for both sexes. 
-38 percent of the people re­sponding say they clean their belly button every day; 20 per­cent say they never do so. 
-53 percent eat spaghetti by winding it on a fork and 47 percent cut it. 
-80 percent eat corn on the cob by going around the ear in the circle; 20 percent nibble from side-to-side, like a type­writer. 
-61 percent say they would wear torn underwear, 39 per­cent would not. Men were slightly more willing to wear the torn item, 68 percent. Only 57 percent of the women said they would. There was this fur­ther breakdown: 7 4 percent of white collar workers said they would wear torn underwear, while only 48 percent of blue collar workers would. 
many were armed with auto­matic rifle and electric prods. 
Joining Deng on the rostrum in Tiananmen were Communist Party General Secretary Jiang Zemin, Premier Li Peng and 84­year-old Chen Yun, an ideologi­cal conservative who is rarely seen in public because of his frail health but who is believed to retain influence over major party decisions. 
China invited few foreign dig-
Fresh Ingredients No Mass Productions 
272-6702 
Friday, February 9 CHAMBER BLUES with CORKY SIEGEL & THE CONSORTIUM STRING QUARTET 
All performances 8 p.m., O'Laughlin Auditorium 


Supporters of former President Ferdinand Marcos display portraits of him and his wife Imelda during a vigil on Friday outside a suburban military camp to show their condolences to their fallen leader who died Thursday while in exile in Hawaii. Some 300 loyalists turned out for the vigil. 
Cow-chip contest survives party pooper 
Associated Press 
UNION, Ill. -It was banned as bad taste in Marengo, but organizers determined to let the chips fall where they may did just that in a cow-pie con­test complete with cheerleaders urging on the bovine contes­tants. 
The idea of people wagering on the wanderings -and droppings -of a cow was too much for Marengo Mayor Richard Baker, who vetoed plans to hold the contest in the northern Illinois town as a 

nitaries to the 40th anniversary celebrations. The ambassadors of all the Western countries and Japan boycotted the Tiananmen gala to demon­strate their continued disap­proval of China's suppression 
of dissent.  
The top foreign  leaders  on  
the  rostrum  were  Cambodian  
resistance  leader  Prince  Si­ 

hanouk, East German Politburo member Egon Krenz and repre­
sentatives from countries in­cluding the Soviet Union, Pak­istan, Cuba, Burundi, Comoros, North Korea, Kenya and Czechoslovakia. 
One American known to be on the rostrum was former secre­tary of state Alexander Haig, in Beijing as a private citizen at­tending a business symposium. As part of the opening c&e­monies, the announcer said: "Celebrate the 40 years of 


Chinese, Vietnamese and American Food 
r,.)29 t:ni1cr~it1 ConlnH>rl' 'Jouttl lkml lr"< 

~~/1/ttflb.l 
at Saint Mary's College 

1989-90 PERFORMING ARTS SERIES 
~ Friday, October 6 e:,O ~'\ THE MINNESai'A OPERA 
MADAME BUTTERFLY 
with full orchestra 
Friday, April 20 
CHICAGO CITY LIMITS 
fund-raiser for Marengo's an­nual Settlers' Days. 
Organizer Bob Begora was undaunted -"Every party has its pooper," he said. So he got permission to hold the contest Saturday at the Seven Acres Antique Village & Museum, in nearby Union. 
There were no party poopers at the contest, where about 250 people watched from bleachers as one cow at a time wandered a grid marked off in 100 3­foot-by-3-foot squares, Begora said. 
"You put the names (of the ticket-holders) on the square and if the cow poops on your square you win $1,250," Begora said. "On the third drop it landed on a line, so we split the prize between two ticket­holders." 

Begora said 300 tickets were sold at $25 each, so three cows were used for three separate contests. Some people bought tickets from as far away as St. Louis because of the publicity generated when the contest was banned in Marengo, Begora said. 

I ndividual performance tickets available at the Saint Mary's box olfice, located in O"Laughlin Auditorium. Tickets by phone at 219t284-4626. VISA, MasterCard orders only. For updated program information, call the Saint Mary"s Campus Events Hotline, 674-0900, category 1740. 
..~----;;Saint Ma~s Colleg~ ---;;;;;;;---~
NOTREDAME·INDIANA• 
Communist China. celebrate the quelling of the turmoil and the counterrevolutionary rebel­lion." 
The government says the pro­democracy movement was aimed at overthrowing the so­cialist system and the Commu­nist Party. 
Join The Observer 

Endless opportunities 
There's no limit to your career opportunities with Vista Chemical Company, one of America's newest Fortune 500 companies. Recruiters will be on campus October 19 and 20 seeking qualified science and engineering students for our Business Career Development Program. Sign up for an interview at Career & Placement Services today. 
VISTA 
Vista Chemical Company, Houston, Texas 
An Equal Opporllnity ~M/F 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Business 
Monday, October 2, 1989 
page 7 

Sneakers banned from work, employees angered by policy 
Associated Press 
EVANSVILLE, Incl.­Managers at Dometic, Inc., sent 20 employees home Friday for wearing white, high-top. tennis shoes against company policy. 
Dometic, which makes small-sized refrigerators for recreational vehicles and hotel rooms, banned the use of athletic footwear two years ago. 
Employees complain that they are not allowed to wea"'r white, high-top tennis shoes to work but black ones am OK if management termed them walking 
SIHH~S. 
··we can wPar their typo of tennis shoes, but not ours and wn think ours arc safer," said John P. Wilkin­son. dirncting business rep­resentative for District 153 of the Machinist Union. 
Not true, said Rick Jones, Dometic personnel man­ager. Jones said the plant's safety rules on footwear had nothing to do with color and that the dispute had been blown out of pro­portion. 
Wilkinson said the work­ers, after meeting with union officials, agreed to change shoes and return to work. But, he said, grievances would be filed to resolve the issue and to re­cover lost wages. 
Wilkinson said the union would take the issue through arbitration if nec­essary. 
"This is the issue that broke the camel's back," he continued. He said the issue was fairness and that Dometic was "talking down to its employees." 
Jones said the company adopted a rule about two years ago banning the wearing of tennis shoes or any footwear designed for athletics rather than fac­tory wear. 
Jones said the rule was adopted after several em­ployees suffered foot in­juries. 
He said the shoe rule does not distinguish be­tween colors or types of material. He said the shoe may be leather, nylon or canvas. He said the design of the shoe was the deter­mining factor. 
If the footwear is a walk­ing shoe or designed for general wear or factory wear, it's OK, he said. If it's designed for playing tennis or other sports, it's not. 



20 10 
%t 
'80 '81 '82 '83 
•Through June 
Source: U.S. Dept. of Energy 
OPEC Total 

'84 '85 '86 '87 '88 '89* 
API Caple 

House battles over tax, GOP on the offensive 
Republican president's corner about 600,000 of the wealthiest Boston Harbor, the state He took them off, but as luck
Associated Press 
on the question of cutting taxes taxpayers. prison furlough program -all would have it, he was denounc­on capital gains. There were perfectly reason­were issues that lent themselves ing the capital gains tax eut as 
WASHINGTON -Hnpubli­Senate Majority Leader Ge­able arguments against the to oversimplification and the a "giveaway to the ultra rich," cans are on the offensive, pa­orge Mitchell insists he has the capital gains proposal, but the Republicans exploited them. within minutes of the House pering tlw districts of House votes in the Senate to defeat the political bottom line was that it That ugly election is over and vote on which 64 Democrats Democrats with identically president's plan, but acknowl­was a tax cut. now Democrats are champing gave the president his margin worded press releases accusing edges there is a good chance a There were perfectly reason­at the bit in their eagerness to of victory. tlwm of casting "a vote in favor retooled version could pass the able arguments in favor of take on George Bush. of higlwr taxes." Senate. nailing the wealthy to finance a William Galston and Elaine The chairman did what he 
Only the names were changed To say the Democrats have restoration of IRAs, but the Kamarck, two former advisers had to do. He called the defec­on th1~ attack releases that mishandled the tax fight so far political bottom line was that it to 1984 Democratic presiden­tors "good Democrats" and flowed from the I louse Hepubli­suggests gross understatement. was a tax increase. tial nominee Walter F. Mondale, said he realized they had their can campaign committee. Not only were the Republicans It is such simplifications that began a recent article by reasons for voting the way they 
Democrats had their own tax positioned on the side of cut­provide the edge in the press­describing what they call their did. plan in the House, one they ting taxes, the Democrats un­release politics of today. party's "current disarray -so thought was a politically sexy derestimated the appeal of that Democrats still rankle at the evident in its failure to mount "Many of the members who idea-rPvival of Individual Re­tax cut among the small busi­memory of how Michael an effective opposition to the didn't vote with the leadership tin~ment Accounts. ness interests and en­Dukakis' veto -on constitu­Bush administration." position thought they were do­
But from the Democrats trepreneurs party leaders still tional grounds -of legislation ing what was in the best inter­then~ was only silence border­hope vote for the party of to require teachers to lead daily Democratic Party chairman ests of their constituents," said ing on embarrassment. After Franklin Roosevelt. recitations of the Pledge of Al­Ronald H. Brown told party of­the party chairman. all. Hnp. Beryl Anthony of The attempt to offer an IRA legiance was used during the ficials meeting across town He recoiled at the suggestion Arkansas. chairman of the revival as an alternative came 1988 presidential campaign to from the Capitol that every the defectors might not be llousn Dnmocratic Campaign across as a belated effort to question the Massachusetts where he travels Democrats "good Democrats." Cornmitten was one of 64 undermine the capital gains cut governor's patriotism. ask him "when are you going to "There is no litmus test in the Democrats who ended up in the and included a rate increase for The flag, the pollution in take the gloves off?" Democratic Party," he said. 
Trend goes toward freedom, away from government 
By LOUIS RUKEYSER  Joyed delight. When I sug­ its further extension (except,  Marx these days.  This is, it would seem, not  
What do you  do when  a  gested that most of the country no longer shared his  of course, when we want a handout or two for our­ But the reason, says Gal­braith, is not that big gov­ an insignificant point. For one of the reasons to be at  
world that used to look to you for economic guidance is now charging resolutely in  faith in the power of govern­ment to cure economic ills, the long-time Harvard pro­ selves). It's an engaging the­sis-what Galbraithian no­tion is not?-and might even  ernment failed entirely, but that it merely seems to have certain limitations in the  least cautiously optimistic about the ultimate triumph of sense in this befuddled  
the opposite direction? Well, if you're John Ken­ fessor immediately agreed. "Oh, there's no doubt  be persuasive were it not for one nagging fact: the  fringe-comforts area. "Socialism behind the Iron  world is that people do want to live better, and the once­ 
nnth Galbraith, you just smile, acknowledge the new trend-and take the credit. That's what I discovered the other day when I chatted with Galbraith, an old friend  about that," he admitted, adding proudly that "my generation is responsible." Nor, as the churlish might assume, is this because its excesses, culminating in the  world's rediscovery of the benefits of trusting private incentives rather than bureaucratic fiats has not been restricted to an elite of Yuppies with BMW's, not  Curtain worked very well when it was satisfying primi­tive wants and when it was building heavy industry," he contended. "But, the planned economy does not work  scorned precepts of free markets, of private profits, indeed (dare we say it?) of capitalism, are demonstrably the best route to the achievement of that  
whose intellectual company I  stagflation of the 1970's, led  even to Americans or even  when you get to the great  better life.  
have always found stimulat­ to a rebirth of belief in the  Westerners.  The  fresh  multiplicity, variety and con­ 
ing, as long as you don't in­ private marketplace in the  appeal of economic freedom  stant  change  of the  con­ That  this  should  be  
hale. Galbraith, whose witty books instructed two gen­erations of Americans that their only hope lay in an ever  1980's and its eventual, dra­matic triumph. Don't be silly; it's just, as Galbraith sees it, that the ideas of the  has been evident even in such improbable precincts as the Soviet Union and China, places not notable for  sumer economy. As those countries have moved into the consumers-goods econ­omy, they have no real alter­ pointed out, even in a limited way, by an economist long thought of as one of the left's favorite Lochinvars, on  
more intrusive government,  left  worked  too  well:  an  excess  of  affluence  native to the market."  the  eve  of  his  81st  
now finds such counsel widely rejected in both par­ "Through the Keynesian revolution, the welfare  among their electorates.  The true problem, accord­ birthday-with character­istic charm and  
tics-while the country, de­spite his gloomier predic­tions, manages somehow to move forward on its own. Where lesser men might be distressed by such a turn­about, and possibly even in­ revolution, a great many Americans-the majority of Americans-have become comfortable, happy, and inevitably, conservative. At least those who vote." In other words, we're a  Galbraith does not deny it. In the wake of the brave stu­dent demonstrations in Tiananmen Square, and the more recent saga of East Germans voting with their feet to escape the Iron Cur­ ing to Galbraith, is that Marx never realized that "well-styled women's cloth­ing and cosmetics and auto­mobiles would be objects of proletarian demand, and that is what has happened.  characteristic unrepen­tance-suggests that the global trend toward eco­nomic freedom may be even stronger than the optimists among us had believed. Happy Birthday, Professor  
clined  to  reconsider  their  bunch of ungrateful fat cats,  tain, Adam Smith would in­ And for that, the market is  Galbraith!  
disdain for free markets, Galbraith expresses unal­ living off the benefits of big government while rejecting  deed seem to be winning the intellectual battle with Karl  the only available nism."  mecha­ ©1989 Tribune Media Ser­vices  

Viewpoint
~p_ag~e__a M_o_n_d_a~y--,October2, 1989 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Regis Coccia 
Exec. News Editor ...... Matthew Gallagher VIewpoint Editor ................. .Dave Bruner Sports Editor...................... Theresa Kelly Accent Editor ......................... John Blasi Photo Editor... .. ...................... Eric Bailey Saint Mary's Editor .............. Christine Gill 
Business Manager Rich Iannelli 
Advertising Manager ............. Molly Killen Ad Design Manager ........ Shannon Roach Production Manager ............ Aiison Cocks Systems Mgr ....... Bernard Brenninkmeyer OTS Director ................... Angela Bellanca Controller ............................. Anne Lindner 


The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi· ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol· icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob­jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
We must act to stop deluge of water pollution 
There is an age old urge in 

man that drives him to trace 
the courses of great rivers over 
waterfalls and under bridges to 
follow the unceasing flow of 
moving water until he reaches 
his final destination of the sea. 
There man stops at the coast, 
smelling the scent of the sea's 
mist, touching the cool sparks 
of the waves as they crash 
against the shore, hearing the 
whisper of the grass in the 
durws. 
Since man has such an affin­ity toward water, why is he polluting it'? Texas oil compa­nies receive thousands of per­mits to dispose waste from drilling into the harbors; since 1950, England's Sellafield com­pany has junked "limited" amounts of radioactive wastes into the ocean. Indeed, very rapidly, our veritable bread­basket, the ocean. is becoming a wastebasket. It is time to do something to cure this drastic environmental problem. 
In a successful campaign. we must consider first, what the problem is; second, why the problem exists; and third, how to solve the problem before its effects are irreversible. 
The probltlm: Ocean pollution. The culprits: pesticides, indus­trial poisons, non-degradable wastes, and crude oil. Together these factors are seeping into our ocean and, little by little, are sealing a lid on the ocean's amazing abundance. 
Strip mining promotes poll u­tion. The ocean is paved black with small lumps of mineral aggregate useful to man. Unfortunately, toxins also pave the ocean's floor because these minerals are mined by ma­chines that accidently release wastes. Off Hawaii's Kona Coast the seabottom now con­tains 10 percent cobalt and 90 percent refuse. Is the ocean a breadbasket or a wastebasket? 
The supply of food found in 

DOONESBURY 
Catherine Cunningham On Human Rights 
the ocean is also being depleted due to contamination. On the sandy shores and among the deep waves over 2,000 known species of simple plants and animals live. These marine creatures, among them cod, shrimp. and salmon, provide a constant supply of food. Sixty million tons of fish are caught by man annually. The sea's real abundance, however, is plank­ton, microscopic forms of crab and seaweed. A single quart of water contains one-half million of them-each majestic wave of the ocean harbors 1,000 seafood cocktails which convert the ocean into a giant pot of chapino. Plankton provide three times the 40 billion tons of car­bohydrates produced by land vegetation. So, why are we al­lowing fluorocarbons to de­stroy the ozone layer, causing plankton to be sun-bleached? 
Examples of how we are pol­luting our oceans abound. When I visited the "Big Apple" during the solid waste crisis New York suffered in 1975, I saw the rotten core of the pol­lution problem-sewage crates being filled up with wastes to be dumped out at sea. Near Boston, Quincy, the "Flounder Fishing Capital of the World," could now easily be termed "Sewage Spot Off the Cape." From Trieste, to the Irish Sea, to the Sea of Japan, ships in transit dump up to six million tons of waste yearly-dumping which is not accidental. 
The truth of the matter is that the sea can no longer ab­sorb this lethal cocktail of in­dustrial, urban, and agricul­tural wastes. Jacques Cousteau warned, "Poisoning the sea will inevitably poison us." Indeed, we are killing the plant life and murdering marine animals. 
Why does this pollution prob­lem exist? For one, perhaps people are unaware of the problem. Since man has been condemned to live on land, over the centuries he has lost con­tact with the vast sea kingdom below and often forgets its im­portance. The ancient Hawaiians worshipped the sea. 
'The truth of the matter is that the sea can no longer absorb this lethal cocktail of industrial, urban, and agricultural wastes.' 
Industrial tycoons argue that the ocean is immense, its seven seas encompassing 71 percent of the planet's entire an~a. and thus able to absorb wastes easily. Besides, they say, the bacteria in the water are able to use oxygen to decompose nature's wastes, such as mud, silt, and excretion, that taint the ocean. 
While this is true, the earth has not learned to adapt to synthetic products foreign to its environment. like plastics and detergents. In addition, nu­trients in sewage cause deadly algae blooms, or "Red Tides" that deprive bacteria of needed oxygen. Therefore, we must worry about contamination be­cause the ocean is not a vast, bottomless pit and it can no longer continue to be the dead end for our waste products. 
Besides man's lost contact with the sea, people who are surrounded by man-made ob­jects have also lost that re­spectful awe for the ocean. Municipal wastes account for 70 percent of the ocean's man­created pollution, yet people are reluctant to pay for treat­ment plants, like San Diego's Point Lobos, that overhaul mu­nicipal wastes. Even more frightening than lost respect for the sea, developing soci­eties, experiencing an explosive growth in industry and popula­tion, automatically produce more non-degradable sub­stances. 
Finally and most importantly, how can we take immediate ac­tion against ocean pollution? The answer is simple. Stop the 
causes of contamination. 
Unfortunately, the "immediatl~ 
action" part is the dincher. 
Yet, concerned eitizens can 
start by supporting interna­
tional organizations like 
Greenpeace, or by contributing 
to the Environmental 
Protection Agency. People 
should actively lobby their con­
gressmen to legislate heavy 
fines on those corporations 
that pollute the waters, and to 
create tax incentives for treat­
ment and sewagt~ plants. 
Again, it is important that w1~ understand what tlw problem is, why it exists, and how we can solve the problem in order to take imnwdiate action against water pollution. This is my world; this is your world. Don't we want to lwhold the ocean in the future as Jimerson onct~ did, "As the opalirw. the plentiful. and strong sea, full of food. nourislwr of kinds." as a bountiful bnmdbasket, and not a wastebasket'! 

Catherine Cunningham is the Environmental Action Club rep­resentatil'e on the Board of Advisors of the Coalition for /Iuman Rights. sponsors of the On /Iuman Rights column. 
LETTERS 
Rap-Up offers seniors the opportunity to regroup 
Dear Editor: friends and really talk. Senior 
Rap-Up groups are the chance 

Time is running out and Oct. you've been waiting for. They 9 is the last day to sign up for are informal groups of 12 stu­Senior Rap-Up groups and the dents, six guys, and six girls, last chance to take advantage which meet once a month at a of a great opportunity to really faculty or staffs house, take make sense of your four years turns making dinner and then here at Notre Dame. All of us get the chance to talk about seniors are busy. Between fran­stuff that really matters. tically trying to get medical and law school applications fin-The eight times you meet en­ished, haunting the Career and able you to spend some quality Placement Office and giving it time with some pretty interest­one last push to boost that all-ing people-your fellow seniors. powerful GPA, we barely have They are people who you may time to hang out with our not have gotten to know well enough. And who knows? You 
may learn something about yourself in the process. These groups are not religinusly ori­ented, unless of course. that's what you choose to talk about. Give it a shot, especially you guys-we've had lots of girls sign up. Hey, tltis is opportunity knocking. Don't look back and say, "I should have made more of my time at Notre Dame." Sign up for Senior Hap-Up groups instead. 
Carolyn Rey Senior Class President Sept. 25, 198'i 


GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'You will never 'find' time for anything. If you want time you must make it.' 
Charles Buxton 


Viewpoint
Monday, October 2, 1989 
page 9 

Light of politcal truths lurks in the 'shadows' 
In the seventh book of his Republicans and College peace. On Thursday, David and expel lethargic feelings toward "Republic," Plato describes a F. Mark Reuter Democrats debated various Marjorie Ransom spoke on foreign policy affairs by intel­scene where a group of men are U.S. foreign ·security issues. In making the dual-career family lectually interacting with one chained inside a cave so that Ideas and Issues this event, clashing national work in the foreign service. another. Unless we discern the 
they are unable to turn their ideologies were exposed and shadows of current foreign af­heads and can only look at the scrutinized. Tuesday, former These events of Foreign fairs to try to find some truth, wall before them. A blazing fire us rarely bvther to look beyond National Security Advisor, Policy Week enabled its partici­we, like Plato's cave men, will separates them from other men the shadows that many foreign Robert McFarlane, explained pants to evaluate their current forever be chained to miscon­who walk up and down, some policy issues project. As a soci­that we as a nation must dis­conceptions of international ception. Until we break free, 
talking and some silent. To ety, we are all too complacent cern our responsibilities as a relations. Perhaps more impor­world peace is mere imagery.them the shadows are in fact to question the imagery of for­leader of other nations in a fu­tantly, this week brought people 
the men, and the voices come eign affairs. However, the 1989 ture century of complex global of numerous ethnicities to­
from the passing shadows. For Foreign Policy Week sponsored -affairs. Wednesday, Dr. Daniel gether to discuss their views. the chained men. Plato by the Ideas and Issues Ellsberg spoke of appropriate To many, this personal level of F. Mark Reuter is a sopho­explains, "the truth would be · Commission of the Student responses of government offi­foreign policy analysis was more in the College of Arts and 
nothing but the shadows." Union Board forced its partici­cials to unlawful warfare. most enlightening. Letters. The Ideas and Issues 
pants to consider many aspects Ellsberg emphasized the im­Column is sponsored by the 
Just as Plato's chained men of foreign policy analysis. portance of individual moral Nonetheless, we as a univer­Ideas and Issues Commission of misperceive the truth, many of On Monday, the College sagacity to promote world sity and as a country need to the SUB. 
LETTERS 
Gays and the Church: Marriage or Divorce? 
Ban on homosexuality fails the biblical 'Context Test' 
Dear Editor: homosexual behavior because it The Christian is not called to 
As a gay person and a Roman deviated from the order of cre­a life of judgement and con­Catholic Christian, I found the ation as he saw it. demnation of others. The point column denouncing homosexu­Researcher Alfred Kinsey saw of Christianity is for human ality (The Observer, Sept. 25) to a different order when he re­happiness to abound (objective be well-intentioned but off the ported that 37 percent of his human happiness; not psychotic mark. Rick Acker seems to ex­male sample and 13 percent of happiness). God is happy and tend the same patronizing pas­the females had a post­He/She wants the same for us. toral assistance to gay people pubesoent homosexual experi­The ideal Christian life leads to which many of the socially ig­ence to the point of orgasm. He this. norant nice guys in the magis­also found that 10 percent of terium have been offering for his male sample were homo­First, this happiness comes years. But, as is typical of these sexual for three or more years. about when we develop what is same church leaders, Mr. Acker instilled in our personal natures insists that homosexual behav­Numbers alone, however, do while heeding our tradition's ior is sinful. With this essay, I not justify homosexual activity moral advice. God has let us want to challenge the Bible­as being part of God's order. know what impedes the way to based core of his argument and But achievements in fields such happiness. We do well to apply Dear Editor: porary understanding of the redirect his energy which has as psychology and sociology these teachings to ourselves. So as not to keep the debate development of sexual orienta­been gratuitously channelled lead to the conclusion that ho­However, we are not called to on the morality of homosexual­tions. She recognizes that ho­
toward the debate over homo­mosexuality is not at all out of impose them upon others. ity "firmly in the dark," I would mosexuals consistently make sexuality. the ordinary for humanity. The like to respond to Rick Acker's up ten percent of every society, The argument that Mr. Acker community of social scientists The second part of a good life "absolute" conclusions for all .including Notre Dame and relied on was the seeming pro­has found homosexual affec­is seen in unconditional love for Christians on this issue (The Saint Mary's. Thus she no hibition by the Bible of homo­tion to be a natural emotional others. The Gospels are full of Observer, Sept. 25). longer condemns homosexuality sexual acts. As he ungratefully response among humans. parables urging us to love one Mr. Acker argues that Old as an orientation. Unfortu­pointed out. though. many another as God loves us. This Testament laws are only ob­nately, the church has not yet scholars question this Biblical Controversy surrounds St. call even includes loving the served today if they pass the been brave enough to admit the teaching because of its contex­Paul's prohibitions as well. Evi­worst trash among us. The "Context Test." I could add an­second factor behind Lev. tual dependence. He claimed, dence suggests that Paul, when "Prodigal Son" is an excellent other example in Leviticus 20:13-homophobia. Only be­however. "the ban on homosex­homosexuality was mentioned, example of the Father's 15:19 which states: "When a cause she is unwilling to admit uality passes the Context Test was addressing what he saw as "absolutely no strings at­women has her menstrual flow, the existence of this bigotry in 
she shall be in a state of impu­her past as well as presently,
with flying colors." Wrong! The perversions. So, naturally, ho­tached" love for each person. It debate over the meaning of the mosexual perversions could be teaches us to do as our Father: rity for seven days." At that she claims that a ban on homo­five clear Biblical references on included. Homosexuality is not Do not worry about the sins of time she would be unable to en­sexual acts passes the Context 
this topic, none of which is immune to perversion. A mod­others, just love the sinners. ter a temple and her impurity Test. found in the Gospels, is any­ern equivalent of this would be could only be removed through As in the case of menstrua­
thing but closed. bathroom sex. But as social Christians are instructed to the sacrifice of two pigeons by tion, the condemnation of ho­
An argument by anthropolo­scientists have pointed out, love others while critiquing a priest. This law came about mosexuality in Lev. 20:13 is gist Mary Douglas. which· is there can be homosexual rela­their own lives. Nothing inher­because of a basic biological based on ignorance and big­commonly accepted, asserts tionships that are n11t per­ently keeps gay people from ignorance of menstruation as otry. The Church and society that the abominations of Leviti­verted. Even if Paul saw homo­loving others. Homosexual acts well as from a society deeply have admitted their ignorance. 
cus (homosexuality is only one sexuality itself as a perversion . can be an expression of valid entrenched in sexism. We rec­It is time to admit the bigotry of many) are based on natural (often interpreted from the text love. When gay people honestly ognize these errors now and as well and leave this invalid order and classifications of as "unnatural") the social sci­question themselves, they can thus the law is abandoned. law in the past. Only when we 
creation. Leviticus 19:19 points entific evidence disproves him find a natural gift of homosex­Similarly, the quote from incorporate contemporary 
this out: "You arc to keep My as well. ual affection. Therefore, homo­Leviticus 20:13 condemning knowledge into faith while statues. You shall not breed to­sexuality is not at odds with homosexuality came about be­humbly admitting our personal gether two kinds of your cattle; Now, I know, when a person Christianity. Gay people can, cause of a basic ignorance of fears and prejudices, will we be 
you shall not sow your field takes a stand like the one I and do, live happy Christian the biological and psychological able to progress as a Christian with two kinds of seed. nor have, Christian radicals and lives. factors which lead to an indi­community. Isn't it about time? wear a garment upon you of even decent people start run­vidual's sexual orientation, as two kinds of materials mixed ning around like a bunch of well as from a society deeply Julie Coyle together." (There goes the peg-legged monkeys. Perhaps James Daniel Lee entrenched in homophobia. The Walsh Hall fashion industry!) The author they could be calmed with the Carroll Hall Catholic Church itself recog­Sept. 25, 1989 of the Leviticus text proscrib~d following argument. Sept. 27, 1989 nizes the legitimacy of contem-
Christians who condemn homosexuality ignore the true moral teachings of the Church 
Dear Editor: stance on the sinfulness of ho­Bible, I could use the Wedding article points out that some keeps its strength depends in a Mr. Acker's article on the sin mosexuality. at Cana to endorse alcohol con­Christians read the Bible as a large part on the way that peo­of homosexuality was distress­Mr. Acker's reading of the sumption, I· could use the story holy text that endorses morality ple read the Bible and on th£ ing in several respects. I was Bible seems to be slanted to­of Lot to endorse sleeping with in a literal fashion (i.e. with the kind of judgements they make upset to find that Mr. Acker. a ward finding a "moral" justifi­one's daughters to ensure the same kind of code-keeping after reading the Bible. So I student of law. seems to view · cation for labeling homosexual­continuation of a family, or I mentality that Mr. Acker ex­hope Mr. Acker reflects on the the legal system in democracy ity a sin, a condemnation of • could show that the command hibits in his conception of jus­judgements he made and on the as functioning to protect an in­homosexuality not being possi­not to judge, if taken literally in tice) rather than reading it as a reasons he felt compelled to dividual's right to freedom as ble in his simplistic conception its broadest implications, en­sacred call to love and forgive­state his findings publicly. And 
long as her actions do not in­of democratic justice. But there dorses the complete abolition ness. Yet Mr. Acker does con­I really hope he doesn't say that jure anyone else. Although I am is a problem with his method of of the legal and penal system. clude by lovingly telling us one he wasn't passing judgement, fearful of the total lack of so­testing Biblical "laws" to see if The true test of the morality of thing: we're all sinners-as if to because then I'll just have to cial responsibility that this view they still apply; that is, judging an action is in the way that it say, I guess all you homosexu­write another letter inquiring implies (i.e. reducing law to that a law still applies merely affects the human beings in­als out there really don't have as to the motivation for his code-keeping and totally sepa­because it jumps through the volved in the situation, a con­to feel so bad about your sin otherwise pointless article. rating it from any ethical· con­approrriate logical hoops can ception that Mr. Acker will then. How disgustingly patron­cerns), I was certainly more result in specious arguments most likely reject, hot on the izing. The strength of the Chris­Jeffrey Roessner anxious about the Biblical for condoning or condemning trail of those absolute/objective tian religion is in its emphasis English· "morality" on which Mr. Acker almost any action. For exam­standards as he is. on love, forgiveness, and non­Graduate Department then draws to support his ple, in a literal reading of the Unfortunately, Mr. Acker's judgement. Whether or not it Sept. 25, 1989 

Accent 
Monday, October 2, 1989 


I 

performs new hits and old favorites 
BRIAN GRUNERT Free Europe.' Mike Mills accent writer doesn't like that." Following these simple instructions the 

hree years ago an members of the band, Mike 
H.E.M. tour would Mills, Michael Stipe, Peter have been met with Buck, and Bill Berry, greeted the relatively lacka­the audience, ripping into a daisical attention of fiery version of the 1989 chart­a small, but grow­topping hit "Stand." This ener­ing, handful of die­getic introduction was an indi­hard fans. However, cation of how the evening the success of the would progress. The band dis­

albums Document and Green played a degree of professional­has dragged the band out of ism which is the product of six underground obscurity into the LPs and a full length tour which world wide musical spotlight. began in the United States, con­On Friday night, H.E.M. brought tinued in Europe, and is now, the Fall leg of their Gnlen tour more than six months later, into Notre Dame's JACC. wrapping up back in the States. 
After the New Hhythm and The performance made brief 
Blues Quartet warmed up the stops at each point in the musi­stage with its brash, garage­cal development of the band, band style act, reminiscent of highlighting tunes from all of H.E.M.'s early years in Athens, their major releases and plac­Georgia. and H.E.M.'s equip­ing the greatest emphasis on suit and sporting a new mo­Their material was given their original intentions. It ment had been set up and their recent material. They hawk hair-do. He entertained new life through R.E.M.'s ener­seems that, howevPr profound checked, the lights were picked from an unending list of the audience with his jerky gy­getic live performance. Songs the statement may be, H.E.M. dimmed as the crowd's antici­hits, each song thrilling the rations and satirical dedications off of all six R.E.M. records, has something to say. The suc­pation for the oncoming music crowd more than the one be­of "Inside Out" to the Exxon from Murmur to Green, were cess of their last album has peaked. fore it. Even under the pressure corporation and "Orange met with the same unified voice transformed the members of 
"... Please follow three simple of their new found success and Crush" to the United States of approval. proving that the H.E.M. into pop superstars and rules," read the words pro­the responsibility to, "give the army. Whether it was through success of the last two albums it has beeome morn difficult for jected on the giant screen be­fans what they want," R.E.M. the scattered images projected has brought attention and them to get their points across. hind the stage, "One: Please maintained the off-centered on the giant screen or the pres­familiarity to the entire cata­It was evident Friday night show respect for those around spontaneity which has been ence of the environmental logue of H.E.M. material. however, that no amount of you. Two: Do not throw things. their trademark. group Greenpeace, the band's In the world of pop music and success can detach the band Three: Don't choose the qui­Michael Stipe, occupied the social concerns were revealed one-hit bands, H.E.M. has members from the simplicity etest moment during the qui­spotlight for most of the eve­in all of the songs in the over adopted a certain commercial and grass roots honesty that is etest song to scream, 'Hadio ning, wearing a baggy khaki two and a half hour set. sound while remaining true to the music of H.E.M. 
'Life Goes On' for one family living with Down's Syndrome 
E 
very once in a while, a The tension falters after the guest. The television program Thatchers drop Corky off at JOE BUCOLO conversation comes along and re­school and is replaced by sen­at the party 
To be continued... 
minds the American timent. In a very moving scene, stops immedi­
public how good televi-Corky, whose real name is ately as Tyler sion can bfl. It's usually a show Charles, is looking for his class­introduces his that manages to capture a room. Unfortunately, he can't The course work at Corky's brother, who warm, human spirit that helps seem to find it and no one will new school proves to be quite also has view1~rs to celebrate life. This help him. Soon the bell rings, challenging for the teenager, Down's Syn­season, there's definitely cause and the halls of the school are and the Thatchers fear that drome. to celebrate in ABC's "Life Goes emptied. Luckily, Tyler, the they may have pushed Corky The beauty On." football quarterback, is running into a no-win situation. Paige of this show is 
For one hour each week, from a bit late also. Their mutual tar­immediately begins to tutor achieved be­6 p.m. to 7 p.m. on Sundays, diness led to an immediate Corky, and he learns his Eng­cause of its viewers have a chance to sit friendship. (The reason for this lish just in time for his first test. gentle and re­back and enjoy television at its friendship is revealed later in During the testing period, the sponsible pre­best. "Life Goes On" is a drama the episode.)Viewers are school "tramp" begins to cheat sentation of a about the mainstreaming of a amazed to see Tyler's kind off Corky. Unfortunately, the delicate topic. child with Down's Syndrome treatment of Corky. teacher accuses Corky of the Viewers im­into a normal high school. The Corky isn't the only Thatcher act and calls Drew and Libby in mediately like decision for this action is made with problems. Libby is upset for a meeting. It is during the Corky and after Drew (Bill Smitrovich) and over her rapidly approaching meeting that Corky stands up experience Libby (Patti LuPone) Thatcher 40th birthday. Meanwhile, and recites "The Raven" from every new situ-The Thatcher family triumphs over Down's syndrome see their 18 year old son Corky Drew is considering opening his memory. This recitation clears ation with him. in the new ABC drama "Life Goes On." (Christopher Burke) excel at his own construction company with him of the charges and leaves For example, "special" school. three friends. Unfortunately, it lumps in the viewers' throats. the audience sympathizes with treat Corky as handicapped, but 
will cost each of them $50,000, Corky when he stands up in as an equal. They fight as nor­As the premiere episode money that Drew does not Later, much to her liking, Tyl­the school cafeteria to meet a mal siblings would and support 
opens, Corky is sitting at the have. er asks Becca if she'd like to go pretty girl and knocks his tray each other, too. (However, edge of his bed dressed and out. Of course, Becca accepts over. (By the way, Kleenex is there's one mystery surround­ready for his first day of class. To make matters worse, and invites Tyler to Libby's not included with this show.) ing Becca, just how many dif­Becca (Kellie Martin), his sister, Paige (Monique Lanier), Drew's surprise birthday party. ferent pairs of glasses does she immediately breaks the chilling daughter from a previous mar­At the party, Drew presents Another great feature of the own?) silence in the house by warn­riage, returns home after a Libby with a diamond ring. It show is the fact that it does not ABC has the show of the year ing Corky that he'd better not fight with her live-in boyfriend. seems that Drew purchased the focus solely on Corky. He's part in "Life Goes On." Unfortu­embarrass her. The comment While Drew and Libby accept ring with the money that he had of a realistic family that de­nately, "Life" lives in the Sun­
only makes her brother, who'd Paige's return, Becca throws a saved for his new business. serves equal air time. The love day "death-slot" opposite "60 just had a dream that everyone fit over having to share her Shortly after Drew gives Libby of Libby and Drew for their son Minutes." Hopefully, ABC will at school would mock him, room again. (Come to think of the ring, Tyler arrives. Tyler's is beautifully portrayed. Becca's juggle its schedule to ensure more nervous about entering a it, Becca throws a fit over ev· arrival is intensified because of adolescent personality is enter­that "Life Goes On" and on and 
"normal" school. erything!) the arrival of an uninvited taining as well. She doesn't on .... 

_... 

Monday, October 2, 1989 
The Observer page 11 


How're you going to do it? 
"Iguess it's just you and me, Coach. Everyone else is at the·IBM PS/2 Fair.'' .-··· 
·.._·~--'· 
--..... ··~, '~::.4:·. 
··:·:-.­
-~::.,;~==~-;-.--·-· 

--~-'"''''''''~~::~",:, 
.,;._ 
..· 
~-.­

Come to the Fair and save on the IBM PS/2. 
Meet the IBM Personal System/2® and find out how easy it is to use. With the PS/2~® you can get your work done and still have time for fun. You can organize your notes~ write and revise your papers~-and create smart-looking graph­ics to make a good report even better. And best of alt you can get a PS/2 at a special student priee that:.., more than fair. 
Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune Wednesday, Oct. 4 7 to 9 p.m. -or-Notre Dame Computer Store Computer Center and Math Building Monday thru Friday, 9a.m. to 5p.m. 
Register to win: Bruno's Pizza 1989 Jeep Wrangler (details at N.D. Computer Store) 
IBM. Personal System/2 and PS/2 are registered trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation. 
--.,.........._ 
·..,__. 
.......
·.~ ~ -: . 

-
-
==-::. ==®
----. ---­
-~-~­
_._ 
~-------­
The Observer aCGepts class1fleds every busmess day from 10 a.m to 3:30p.m at the Notre Dame office 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 to 3 p rn. at the Samt Marys off1ce. Haggar College Center Deadline for next day class1fleds IS 3 p m All class1fleds must be 
prepaid. The charge IS 2 cents per character per day. mclud1ng spaces 
.Ciassifieds 
I NOTICES ) PANDORA'S BOOKS BOB howard 3 blks. from NO campus 233-2342 $$$FOR YOUR BOOKS WE BUY AND SELL USED TEXTBOOKS 1!1!11!1111111!11 TYPING JACKIE BOGGS 684-B793  RIDE NEEDED from Bridgeport -Hartford Ct area to NO Friday Oct27 after break. Call Chris at 4220. I desperately need 1 Northwest voucher to go home for Break, please call Lisa at X2B22. ADOPTION Lov1ng couple  NEED FOUR GA's TO NAVY!!Ill PLEASE CALL KARIN x1321 !II $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 2 SMU TICKETS-GA'S PLEASE CALL277-9281 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I need USC GA's. Will beat best offer. Ann x2B30 NEED GA TIX FOR ANY HOME  NEED USC TIX JOE 1714 Help! I need one Pitt GA for my Dad I Will trade one Navy SA and/or pay$1 Call Tallie X4B13 r am Rob. I need four GA's for the Navy game and you've got them. Carr #1 B04 and I'll buy them.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 2 USC GA'S PLEASE CALL BETH X2722 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED many USC Student Tickets, please call Megan 251B. Have 2 USC Std Tckts and$$ to trade for 4 NAVY GA's. Caii277­ HAVE:$$$$ + SMU GA'S NEED:'2 USC GA'S Parents coming from Calif. 1111!1 Call Jeanne at x3620 or 3845 and leave message. "Men aren't pigs. Pigs are smarter." -Carla from Cheers, member of SWBHC  
dreaming of adopting white il'lfant.  GAMES. CALL MATI 272-3491.  It is impossible to be in more dire  9B69.  
LEGAL SECRETARY WILL DO  LET'S HELP EACH OTHER!  need of USC tickets.  We need a  
TYPING/WORD PROCESSING.  Legal/confidential. Expenses paid.  PLEASE HELP!!  couple students and pfenty-o­ WANTED: 3 TICKETS NOV. USC.  How to tell if you are Jen Mclain  
PICK UP & DELIVERY AVAILABLE.  Call Lillian and Ed collect.  r desperately need an SMU  GA's.  GRAD OR G; CALL COLLECT,  1. You have a strong preference  
CALL 25~1726.  ANYTIME  (212) 645-4344  student of GA ticket!! Thanks!  Call #1B04. (Adam, Pat, Bri, or  606-273-3164, BPM-10PM.  for hot, wrinked fruit  
Johanna at # 4456  Rob)  2. You have extensive  
Alumni Senior Club Needs  NAVYNAVYNAVYNAVYNAVY  knowledge of A,B,C,D, and P  
STUDENT COMEDY  INSTRUCTORS NEEDED TO  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  I need 5 G.A.'s  Chern  
call Bill 277-3653 or 239 7521 TYPING AVAILABLE.  TEACH CHEERLEADING, DANCE, GYMNASTICS AT SUMMER CAMP SITES. WORK  Need SMU and NAVY GA's: Calf Jim at 2B7-9B54 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  One Pitt student ticket. The word is "cheap." Call Brian at #1B04  or anything you have together NAME YOUR PRICE!!!! Carr Kyle-#3775  3. You spell your na111e with only 1C 4. You love the NDCU  
2B7-40B2. Private Math Tuition  THROUGHOUT THE YEAR POSSIBLE. WRITE: NATION­WIDE CHEERLEADERS, 2275  NEED 2 SMU GA'S BADLY!  Wanted: 4 USC STUD TIX WILL PAY CASH CALL BOB x1747  5. You are a French Master/Chemical Goddess 6. It's your 20TH birthday today!  
Call271-9971 after 6 PM I LOST/FOUND I  CANTERBURY OFFICES, AT. 422 WEST, INDIANA, PA 15701. (412) 349-2017.  Call Krista X161B I'll buy any tickets for any home  Wanted: 4 USC STUD TIX WILL PAY CASH CALL BOB x1747  LET'S MAKE A DEAl! Need 2 USC GA's. Will buy or deal with 2 SMU GA's. Call Diane X3477.  HAPPY BIRTHDAY JENNY! love. EM, KF,JR  
LOST: GOLD CLADDAGH RING OUTSIDE O'SHAG. DIAMOND STONE REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE CALL X2670 OR 277-92B1 IF FOUND. LOST: MINOLTA FREEDOM ZOOM 90 CAMARA. LAST SEEN  '"NEEDED'" A RIDE TO MID.­EAST. PA AFTER THE USC GAME. WILL PAY. CALL STEVE X1723 looking for a fraternity, sorority or student organization that would like to make $500-$1,000 for a one  game, or Miami. call JEFF at 239-3714, leave a message. Thanks. SO. CAL-NEED 6 TIC'S HAVE 2 PITI, NAVY, SO. METH Will TRADE CALL 215-642-2765  I NEED 2 SMU G.A.s!! Call Chris@ 2B9-9B11 Aaaaaaarrrrrggggghhhhh!!!!! I still need 3 USC GA's Call John x2005  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ WANTED: MIAMI TICKETS CALL MATI AT 1961 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 2 USC GA's FOR SALE+ HOTEL ROOM USC WEEKEND! BEST OFFER. x1335  TAKE THE PLUNGE!'!! Urban Plunge applications due OCTOBER 13TH ################### !!!!!EGNULP EHT EKAT fi.II.I\M\II/Ifl.ll.ll.llllfl.lllllll\111\l\l\ll. --------Just Do 11-----------­ 
IN MAIN CIRCLE. NOT INSURED, NOT PAID FOR, VERY, VERY VALUABLE!!! CALL PETE AT #1B63 ANYTIME! $100.00  week on-campus marketing project. Must be organized and hardworking. Call Joe or Myra at (BOO) 592-2121.  PURDUE tix,pair, FOR SALE Dave (201) 729-9172, Evenings, Eastern Time ·  Rich Alumni from Golden State need Tix for The USC game Call Sean x4327  NEED USC GA'S OR STUD TIX CALL KIM 2971  NEED RIDE to New Orleans Oct. Break.Will share $.TanjaX2723  
REWARD. LOST: A Jaz watch wt black leather band on Fri. Sep 22 at party at B17 NO Ave. if found  Helpll Need ride to Columbus, OH. Oct. 6-B. Will share expenses. Please call Laney x4B30  NEED 4 PITI GA'S CALL TONY AT 234-1 04B Need TXTS All Games call Bill 277-3653  f NEED JUST ONE U.S.C. GA-­call John at x3501.  $$USC$$ I NEED YOU, YOU NEED ME !! I've PITT Tix, You've 3 USC GA's let's DEAL some$$$ Flow!!!  Thank you Saint Jude for your help in the matter of a painful affliction. Daniel Simon. Novena Prayer left at the Grotto.  
please call Chris at x1 069, no  NEED 2 USC GA'S  Call Matt x1304  
questions asked! FOUND: Casio calculator on 9/26 5pm at C1 parking lot. Call Tony@ 272-4223  Experienced keyboard player for Notre Dame Hockey Games. carr 239-5050 or 5227. FORRENT .I 2 BDRM HOME 2 BLOCKS FROM  BIG MONEY FOR USC TICKETS I NEED 10. STUDENT or GA Call FRA('JK 2B7-5320 NEED 2 GA'S & 2 STUDS FOR USC! NICOLE X2B1B  Willing to trade 2 Pitt. GA's & 1 USC hotel reservation! Call Robin@2933 WANTED: 2 or 3 tickets for Navy game. Write: Fr. Tom McGettrick, 725 Sodville, Sinton, TX 7B387 or call correct: 512-364-2210.  NEED 2 USC GA'S MIKE x3501 I need 4 SMU GA's. Will trade 4 Pitt GA's. Call Charlie at 34B9..---------------------------------·--­ CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable atmosphere, daily & weekly specials, pool table, English darts, and great company. 234-3541  
NEWS FLASH: Synth programmer 1 airhead has misplaced a tan plastic box of 3.5" floppies containing 3 disks: 2 blank and 1 lab led "Synth Disk", holding important documents. Would appreciate ~s immediate return. If found, please call Weazel at #4665.  CAMPUS.272-6306 FOR SALE COLOR TV RENTALS 19-INCH, $70/SEM, $120/YR; 25-INCH, $90/SEM, $160/YR FREE DELIVERY  NEED 6 USC GA'S! PLEASE CALL x4933 T. needs ONE USC Ticket--bad. Calf him before he kills himself over it at 1B70.  Need Navy Stud Tix!! Call Ursula x4341 or x4553 DESIRE: 2 GA'S And 1 STUD. TX to ANY HOME GAME . PLEASE CALL MICHELLE at X 2922.  NEEDED: 1 USC STUD TICKET CALL CHESTER x1B61 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 1 GA FOR USC WILL PAY$$$$$$ CALL PAT AT 2B3-1B75 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  ADOPTION: Loving, professional couple in Midwest wishes to adopt newborn. We offer stable and happy home, financial security, welcoming extended fam1ly. PLEASE call collect 513-751·6711 after 6:30pm weekdays, anytime weekends.Attorney involved.  
lost: Blue NO pouch w/ keys, detex, ID. driver's license, and pixes inside. REWARD-please call Andria at  COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272­5959 Plane Ticket: SB to Newark for FaiL Break--Super cheap!!!  I need 2 USC GA's Will Pay BIG BUCKS Please call Beth 283-2722  FOR SALE: STUD TIX FOR ALL HOME GAME,S. CALL TONY 289· B020. HURRY! LEAVE MESSAGE. PITI or USC GAs needed  ARE YOU LEAVING EARLY FOR BREAK? LET ME BUY YOUR USC STUDENT TICKET!!!! CALL PAT AT 1875.  MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL OCT 1-7  
2903 or send to 112 Lyons. FOUND: a set of keys in Howard Hall, room no. 342. call x2652.  Call J. at 1B70 OVATION" COUNTRY ARTIST",ELEC. HOOK-UP 255­3355  I NEED, yes I need GA's for the USC game. Please sell me yours. Amy #2640. $$$  desparately. Please call Mike at #22BB. Help! Need 3 GA tickets to Pitt game. 317-743-720B.  r need 3 tickets UNDvsPITI Reasonable $$ Calf K. Sherry 232-2051  ATIENTION SENIORS: GE-SPONSORED OPEN HOUSE OCT. 3, 7-9 PM CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION  
A U honest. or ? lost pr. black Vuarnets at Lafortune's auto bank teller, 9/11. Please call X4043 or leave w/ Carroll Hall rector.  BOSTON I BOSTON! one-way ticket for sale, SB to Boston, leaving Fri. 10/20 call x3442.  I NEED LOTS OF USC STUD TIX!II Calf Hales at 3640  Need TIXX to any home football game.Big $$$.Call John X15B3 NEED 2 USC GAS AND 7 NAVY  Will trade original Picasso for 2 or 4 Pitt GAs. x2055 Nick  SENIOR CLASS CRUISE ON THE SPIRIT OF CHICAGO TIX ON SALE IN SR. CLASS OFFICE 3-5·MON-FRI LIMITED  
HELPI!I Levi's Jean Jacket with all  NEED GAS FOR PITI,  GAS!!!!!! CALL JULIE X3141 !!!!!!!  AMOUNT!  
my ID lost Sat. night. Probably in Alumni somewhere. x4777.  One way ticket, SB to ALBANY NY leaving Fri. 10/14 FOR SALE CHEAP Call x3442.  NAVY & SMU $$$$ CALL TOM & MARTY X 31B5  TOP$ ALL HOME GA'S  PERSONALS ADOPTION, A LOVING  Tuesday, October 3rd At ~:OOp.m. In the Grace Hall Pit  
LOST: SILVER PIN IN MOON SHAPE-SENT. VALUE. REWARD. please carr 2770 or send to 311 Walsh.  19B1 TOYOTA COROLLA, 59,500 MILES, VERY GOOD CONDITION, $2,500. 287-5495 AFTER 3:30.  WANTED: 2 STD & 4 GA FOR USC GAME WILL TOP ANY OFFER BIG BUCKS $$$ CALL BRIAN '1026 ANYTIME NO PRICE TOO HIGH !!!!1!!1  312-920-9350 I NEED USC, MIAMI, & All HOME GAME TIX 272-6306  ALTERNATIVE. Btl ALUM WISHES TO ADOPT AN INFANT. LOVING HOME, CERTIFIED TO ADOPT, EXPENSES PAID. CAN BE CONFIDENTIAL OR OPEN. IF  Grace Hall's Intellectual Life Commission Presents A Panel Discussion On the CONTROVERSY  
LOST: MINOLTA 35 mm camera with telephoto lens. Last had at Senior Bar or surrounding area on  3 dining room chairs $10ea Couch $40 w/ matching chairs $20ea. Mark or Kitty 2B9-2011 4-Bpm  NEED 3 PITI GA TIX $$CALL: 4272  WANTED 2 FOR USC WILL TRADE 2 PENN ST 301-949-4392 COLLECT  YOU OR SOMEONE YOU KNOW IS CONSIDERING ADOPTION, CALL MIKE & JEAN COLLECT AT 602-4B2-0905.  caused by THE LAST TEMPTATION OF CHRIST  
night of Fri., 9/22. $Reward$ if found. Please call Molly at X49B5.  have1 PITI stud tic (sec 30) x3202  NEED PITI GA'S PLEASE!! BETH 3706  MIAMI FLIGHTS ' MIAMI FLIGHTS  Featuring: Rev. Michael Himes  
LOST: MINOLTA 35 mm camera with telephoto lens. last had at Senior Bar or surrounding area on night of Fri., 9/22. $Reward$ if found. Please call Molly at X49B5.  Selling a 19B7 honda elite 150cc scooter. Automatic, no shifting required, 2400 miles. Asking $1200 (retail value is $1435). Call 277-5647 after 6 pm. SCHWINN BIKE & TV.272-6306  HAVE TIX! will trade any 2 tix to any game for 2 USC GAs or studs caii366B Help! We need 2 GAs and 2 Stud. tix for NAVY!! Call x127B  r have one extra So Cal ticket, will trade for one Pitt ticket. Call evening or leave message: (312) 7B4-B1B2  Round-trip airfares to Miami or Fort lauderdale. Depart Nov. 22 from Midway (Chicago); return Nov. 27 to Midway (Chi.). $239 for students, $265 for others. Tix sold on first-come, first-serve basis, and are non-refundable.  Dr. David Solomon Dr. Daniel Lapsley Dr. Stephan Fredman Dr. Kate Halischak Dr. Theodore Mandell Refreshments to follow discussion  
- lost: Black Aiwa Walkman w/ tape inside. If found carr Joe @3B04 Reward!! Reward'! Reward!! LOST: BLUE NO ID POUCH. Contains: 10, license, detex, and keys attached. Please call: BRENDA at x4272 or return to: 331 Farley. Reward!  JVC RX-60 RECIEVER, 55 WATIS riNG~~;;;; 2399 Travel Tour Operator needs tickets for all N.D. games-home and away, especially MSU, USC  Need USC studs. Have $ or a Pitt stud to trade. call x2107 Need 4 GA's (will take 2 stud tix) for the Navy game. Aw come on, the folks are making the trek from ALASKA!! Eskimos are people  NEED up to 6 USC GAs. $ no problem. Jim x1236 I NEED FOOTBALL TIX WILLING TO PAY BIG BUCKS FOR ANYGAME PAT X42B9  Anthony Travel 1-B00-7DOMERS Tiiiiina! How are you? Got a night a month w/ nothing to do? Sign up @ the CSC for a Senior Rap-Up Group by 10/9. Great food, friends & rap@ a  Need student to teach our two daughters aged B and 9 , to play the piano. 4 mi. north of ND. late afternoons, place negotiable. Calf Kathy 277-7446. NEEDED: 4 OR 6 NAVY GA's CALL ANNETIE 2B4-4344  
and Miami.  Premium price paid.  too, so don't let them go home  prof's home.  
- FOUNND: Walkman in Hurley Hall. x1630. LOST: One sty lin' hippie helmet with sentimental value. Contact: the Butch Hunters. I WANTED  Immediate case available. Will trade for all major sporting events including Final 4, Indy 500 and bowl game, etc. Wirr also buy season tickets. Please carr Dave at 1·BOO-B2B-B955 today. I NEED 6 PITI TICKETS CALL  deprived of the Notre Dame Experience!! Willing to trade or pay$$$$$$!!!!! Mary x2B22 WANTED: USC TIX BETWEEN THE 20 YD. LINES. WILL BUY OR EXCHANGE END ZONE SEATS+ CASH OR TICKETS TO NAVY, PITI OR SMU. B00-323-76B7.  $$$$$$$$$$NEED$$$$$$$$$$ SMU and MIAMI GA'S TRADE FOR BLANK CHECK!!!! !I CALL JEFF AT 2B3-1504. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ WILL TRADE 2 PITI GA's FOR 2 USC GA's 2773097  Siobhan Carrol is 21 today Everyone wish her a great day Especially all you foreign language people! • Hi Sunshine!! •  To The Queen Mother of Death, I hope You're feeling electronic today, If not, let me make you a drink or two, Everyone wears turtlenecks their own way, How about a stroll around the fake-me and you? -Your ever faithful servant.  
277-92B1 OR X2760.  Will trade two PITI GA's for 2 USC  Fireside Chats  
NEW YORK NEW YORK NEW  WILL PAY$$$$$$$$$  I NEED 2 USC GA'S FOR  GA's; call Paul x3367  
YORK If u r headed to Albany,  FATHER.  Will PAY GOOD  DENISE,  Fireside Chats  
NYC, or anywhere betw. the 2, 1  Need two SMU tix please call 2B4­ MONEY. RON 1723.  Need one USC student ticket;  WHAT'S MORE  
need a ride home for Oct. Break.  49301!11!1111!  call Julie x4914  IMPORTANT, A COUPLE OF  5 Days til  
Will share expenses and driving.  WE NEED USC STUDS. AND  FOOTBALL GAMES OR YOUR  TASTE OF NATIONSII!  
Can leave and return  NEED SEVERAL PITI GA'S  GA'S. WILL PAY GOOD$$$. CALL  $$NEED USC GA & STUD TIX$$$  TWIN SISTER?  TASTE OF NATIONS!! I  
whenever...please call x3442.  PLEASE!!  #2B19  BOB OR PAT AT X2313  $$$ Please call Cheri x2605 $$$  RENEE  

Monday, October 2, 1989 The Observer 
page 13 

Ryan picks up 300th strikeout in last start of season 
Associated Press 
speed and overwhelming power. right-hander came within five The 42-year-old Ryan, who outs of his first perfect game, dium sound system as he flirted 
with the virtually impossible, 
ANAHEIM, Calif. -The hair­then accomplished the amaz­earlier this year became the finally "settling" for 13 strike­oldest winning pitcher in an All­outs and a three-hit, 2-0 victory 
line is slowly but surely reced­ingly improbable. 
over the California Angels. The

ing. There are telltale wrinkles Nolan Ryan. Forever young. Star Game, Saturday night be­in his brow, age lines around An ancient in a boys' game, came the oldest -by 11 years peformance was his 57th his eyes. Ryan still possesses the gifts -to strike out 300 batters in a shutout, his 289th victory and his 199th game with 10 or
"Forever Young" was the usually held only by much season. song blaring through the sta-younger pitchers -blinding 
And the Texas Rangers' more strikeouts. 
There was a possibility the game may have been Ryan's last, since he said he will decide after the season whether he'll retire. In fact, a press confer­ence was called for Arlington, Texas, on Monday. 
After the game, he implied that his decision was imminent, saying, "Yeah, I'm leaning one way." 
He would shed no additional light on his future after Saturday's game. However, it would be very surprising if Ryan decided to quit now, con­sidering his success this season (16-10, 3.20 ERA) and the fact that he has lost little if anything off his 95 mph fastball. 
If he does decide to retire, it likely would be because of off­the-field considerations, such as making more time for his family. 
"If he decided to leave, it would not only be a loss for the Rangers, but a loss for base­ball," said Texas Manager Bobby Valentine, who would probably like to see Ryan pitch until the turn of the century. 
Ryan's mastery of the Angels, whom he defeated 3-0 at Anaheim Stadium with a three­hit, 12-strikeout performance earlier this year, certainly didn't look like it should be a swan song for an aging athlete. 
N.D./MIAMI GAME 
NOV. 24-26, 1989 
5599 Doo==ney 
~~~~~re. 
2930 McKlnley-287-8747 1-800-552-2616 (IND.) 1-800-643-460'' (U.S.A.) 
Scheduled carrier I Book anytime! Above fare 1/2 round-trip from Chicago. Some restrictions apply. On-the-spot railpasses, lnrl Student 1.0., youth hostel passes, work and study abroad programs. Call for more info.& FREE Student Travel Catalog. 
Get Ready__ for October Break!!! 

* Make your travel plans! *Get a head start on that tan! 
* Have your car checked out! 
---~~---------------------,
,r-v 

N!, ;r(.~'d1 FREE TANNING 
· . ~ ;;.so/ with every Purchase! · FOR AVERY UMITED TlME! 
i,.;~ (WITH THIS AD) /, ~ FOR DETAILS ...
\ "' ·~. bJ ' stop in to see ourJ';\ / ~ t salon, or call us at ... 
\{I~~~\,~ .· _6_.2-7653
~~-\· ~--.) .1£ 
'>•' • . i 
rnnnnn Vfl'Jmnn 
h~ }.)i #~~\!~ ~~ ... ·-f.:.~:tl ""''""'" Commom, 51. Rd. 23, Sooth Beod, lo 
L-------------------------­
DICK'S 
FALL BREAK SPECIALS! 
• 
AAA TOWING, WARDS/ALLSTATE 

• 
50% DISCOUNT ON TOwiNG WHEN TOWED TO FACILITY FOR REPAIRS 

• 
ND & SMC FACULTV AND STUDENTS: 10% DISCOUNT ON REPAIRS (NOT VALID FOR SPECIALS) 


TIRE SALE! 
• 
20% OFF SUGGESTED LIST PRICE 

• 
FREE BALANCING AND ALIGNMENT WITH PURCHASE 


OF FOUR TIRES BRAKE SPECIAL: METALLIC PADS $49.95 
** UTILIZE MARATHON'S NO INTEREST** CHARGE PROGRAM 
fOiL;'"LUii&-FiLTiR-1 lJ.oick's 
IREG. $14.95 q,0~'0 E. Corb I § >-*Bridgets
Iwith coupon Vfl~ L~~-~!.!! _______y r~ 
~~~: 

that healthy glow all year long. 
LOW RATES TO AIRPORT 
PACKAGE SERVICE PROMPT DELIVERY 24 HOUR SERVICE 
233-9333
"WE OffER SENIOR SAVINGS" 710 N. NILES AVE. 


DESTINATIONS UNLIMITED 
"Where Service Is Unlimited" 
Notre Dame vs. Miami 
NOVEMBER 22-26 Package Includes: 
• Round Trip Air Fare 
• Game Tickets 
• Hotel Accommodations 
• Many Extras 
FOR DETAILS CALL: 234-9099 1 (800) 373-2918 

728 East Colfax A venue, South Bend, Indiana 46617 
SUMMER 
SPECIAL
TANS FADE! 

1 0-2-89 to 1 0-20-89 Let Active Tan all students tanning sessions $3. 00 
help maintain 
OCTOBER BREAK 


Private Tanning Beds 
52303 Emmons Rd. 272-9780
Built-In AM /FM Cassette Stereo 
nciiTravel
South Bend, In 

"Bring Your Own Cassette" 29 E Delaware PI Chocago. IL 60611 312·951·0585 
_j 

r------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer Monday, October 2, 1989 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Irish Insanity will meet tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Montgomery Theatn~ at Lafortune. All are welcome. 
Women's golf team finished 1Oth in the Michigan State Invitational over the weekend. The Irish had a score of I016. Nrbraska won the tourm~y with a score of 933 fol­lowed by Michigan State at 963. Complete details will ap­pnar in TuPsday's ObservPr. 
Ultimate Frisbee games will be played in Loftus Center from 9 to 11 p.m. weeknights. The rosters are due at the NVA office by Wednesday, Oct. 4. 
NVA swim relays will be held Wednesday, Oct. 12, at Holfs Aquatics Center. Students must represent their own hall. and halls may have more than one team. The deadline for rosters is Wednesday. Oct. 4. 
Training sessions for Bed Cross water safety instructors will begin at 6 p.m. Thursday, Oct. 5, in Room 218 Hockne Memorial. There will be six sessions of four hours each. The cost of texts and materials is $30. Hegistration dead­line is today. 
Irish Outdoors will have a meeting at 7 p.m. Thursday, Oct. 5, in Notre Dame Room of Lafortune. Any interested students should attend. Call 271-9901 for more informa­tion. 
Ski Club will hold an organizational meeting at 8 p.m. Tuesday, Ort. 3, in Boom 118 Niewland Science to discuss tryouts and the Christmas trip. For more information, call x2962 or x3662. 
NVA volleyball semifinals will be held today at 5 p.m. at Stepan CP.nter. Pangborn Antelopes will play Islanders and St. Ed's will meet Bulger & Rooney. The title match will be at 5 p.m. Tuesday. 
Irish accomplish goal in National Catholics 
By BARBARA MORAN 
Sports Writer 
The women's cross country team got its wish last Friday, linishing in the top five at the National Catholics. 
The Irish, who had hoped to bPtter th1~ir sixth place finish of last year, took fifth in a field of 21 teams with a total score of 
132. Providence College won the meet easily. taking four of the top five spots and finishing with a score of only 16. Hounding out the top five were Boston College with 83 points, DePaul with 102 and St. Thomas with 1 04. 
Siohhan Gallagher crossed the line first for Providence, completing the 3.2 mile course in a time of 18:14. Lucy Nusrala finished first for Notre Dame and 15th overall with a time of 19:14. 
Two Notre Dame women, in addition to Nusrala, ·finished in the top 25. Amy Blaising, run­ning only her second race for the Irish, finished a surprising 23rd in 19:42. Blaising was fol­lowed closely by teamate Therese Lemanski. who finishnd 24th with a time of 19:4 7. 
Irish coach Tim Connelly was pleased with his team's per­formance. 
"We were looking to improve from last year and that's what we did," he said. "Lucy Nusrala had the potential to be up higher. She just ran out of gas, but she ran a good race. I can't help but be pleased with Amy IBlaisingl and Therese !Lemanski!. We ran well as a team, and overall I'm pleased with the way the race went." 
..LIF£8 ABEACH." 
I ullfiJ., f/t,,IH•II• '''1/•1/"11 '''''"' ''f'l/"'"''11• 
/IN II '"'"'JinuuJu.,hlu'"""'"'' /f•l'n/1111•1 'I""' -..111111'/llm /l,l.,o/J, fm•..u/Jol/t,/• •I.J,/u.,•l 

ND soccer-A Tate of Two Teams 
The Irish have another reason to be happy besides their top five finish: they soundly de­feated the two MCC teams who competed in the meet. Detroit finished 1Oth with 264 points, while Marquette took 13th place with a score of 309. Still, Connelly was hesitant in pre­dicting a first-place finish for the Irish in the MCC meet. 
"I was glad to see the wins over Detroit and Marquette," said Connelly, "but Dayton is the team to beat in the MCC's and they weren't here." 
Notre Dame will not have their chance to meet up with Dayton until the MCC league meet, but will next compete this coming Friday at the Notre Dame Invitational, which will begin at 1PM on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
WANTED: USC vs. NO TICKETS 24hr. answering service (213) 487-4161 Home (213)422-2812 


Our classroom 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Sports Writer 
In two games this weekend, the Notre Dame soccer team looked like two totally different teams, despite dropping both of its games by identical 3-1 scores. 
The Irish started out Friday night by playing very well against the defending national champion Indiana lloosiers. Despite the loss, Notre Dame managed to keep the match fairly even against the heavily favored Hoosiers. who are cur­rently ranked sixth in the coun­try. 
But Sunday afternoon, although the outcome was the same, the performance was radically different. Notre Dame appeared tired and sluggish in a 3-1 loss to a Wisconsin squad which was talented. but should not have dominated the game as completely as it did. 
Friday night the Irish drew a Krause Stadium record crowd of 2, 7 41 for their game against the Hoosiers. They responded to the impressive turnout by giving Indiana a run for its money, playing good defensive soccer the whole game, control­ling midlield fairly effectively, 
and  keeping the flow  of play  
fairly even.  
Unfortunately  for  coach  

Dennis Grace's squad, the Hoosier front line is probably the best in the country, and its ability to put the ball in the goal made the difference in this game. All-American forward Ken Snow was devastating, as­sisting on Indiana's second goal and thnn scoring the third to put Notre Dame in a big hole. 
Snow won the IIermann Trophy, NCAA soccer's equiva­lent to the lleisman. last year, and he certainly showed the Krause Stadium crowd that he deserved it. He skated around defenders effortlessly and made several picture-perfect passes to his brother Steve Snow, who is just a freshman, and senior Sean Shapert. 
"There's not a lot we can do to defend against that," said Grace, "We actually had a lot of 
KECK'S KLEAR WATER COMPANY ~ 4il !J~ lffltt 
~ 
Bottled Spring Water Co.:Jier Rental Free Doli very 
For Same Day Service Call 
674-9992 
before 1 0:00 AM Monday through Friday 
territory and a lot of ball con­trol, but no team in the country goes to the goal like they do." 
The statistics support Grace's claim that the Irish played the lloosiers very evenly. The shots were slightly in favor of Indiana at 13-8, while Notre Dame held a 6-2 advantage in corner kicks. But Indiana coach Jerry Yeagley didn't agree with Grace's contlmtion that the game was a close one. 
"I was pleased with the win," admitted Yeagley, "But wt~ should have buried them when we had the chance. With the chances we had, we should have scored three or more goals. But Notre Dame never quits. Down 3-0 a lot of teams would throw in the towel. so they deserve a lot of credit." 
Jim Crockford scored early for the Hoosiers, heading in a perfectly driven corner kiek from Sean Shapert at the 13:10 mark. Just under eight minutes later, Indiana struck again, as Steve Snow warded off a de­fender just outside the penalty area and left the ball for brother Ken. who threadPd tlw ball through Irish ddrnders to teammate Chad Deering, who booted a shot into the low•~r right-hand corner of the goal. 
Ken Snow scored to make it 3-0 at halftime, and then the Hoosiers went into a bit of a defensive shell to protect their lead. Indiana had a fpw ehanet~s in the second half, but Notre Dame forward Kevin Pendergast was tlw only orw who was able to capitalize, rounding out the scoring with 
11:27 left in the game. 
"I think we played well," said Grace. "That was a drfending National Championship team out there. I'm proud of our dr­fense. We didn't stop tlwm a couple of times whnn Wf~ should have, but they didn't get goals a couple of timns when they should have. It was important for a young team lik£~ ours to come back and score when we were down 3-0." 
Grace was nowlwm near as P.nthusiastic after losing 3-1 to Wisconsin on Sunday. llis team was outhustled and outplayed on the way to being outshot 20­
7. Nonetheless. they managed to keep the score even until late in the second overtime. when Jeff Schiedemeyer volleyed tlw ball past Irish keeper Danny Lyons and into the goal. 
There was some controversy on the goal, as the officials ruled that a Badger forward was offsides, but sincP. lw wasn't involved in the play, the goal was allowed to stand. Although he wasn't happy with the call. Grace said that he was not about to attribute the loss to the poor work of the refpr­ees. 
"You never blanw losses on officiating," statml Grace, "We probably just did not play as well today as we are capabiP of playing." 
The lone bright spot in tlw match for tlw Irish was Kevin Pendergast's team-leading sixth goal which tied tlw scorP at 1-1 at :{I :04 of tlw lirst half. Pendergast took a pass out on tlw right wing and lwat a Badger defender bdore blast­ing the ball behind tlw Wisconsin ktwper. 
After a scoreless second half, tlw game went to two, 15­minute ovt)rtinw pPriods. Nobody seored in tlw first owr­tinw, but Schiedmneyl'r linally broke through for Wisconsin halfway through tlw second. lsmanl Oza111w <tdded an insur­an('(• goal for tlw BadgPrs with 
5:10 remaining after Grace had puiiPd Lyons out ol' the rwt and moved Daw Augustyn to k1~epPr in order to bolster tlw ofTPnsP. 
"I wish I had somPthing mon• positivi' to say about this ganw," lamentt~d CracP. "All I can say is that WP am going to IParn from this." 

Shaheen Bookstore 
SMC Community; 
Don't forget to enter our great SEIKO WATCH GIVE AWAY BEFORE YOU LEAVE FOR BREAK! 
H. KAPlAN 
instruction, home study materials and review tapes have all been 
COMPLETEf:Y UPDATED to prepare you for the NEW l..SAT. What has NOT CHANGED IS our 50 years of test preparation experience, our skilled instructors, our small classes, our first rate study materials and our TEST-N-TAPE~ labs. And our 135 Centers are still open days, evenings and weekends for your convenience. 
CLASSES ARE FORMING NOW for the 1 2 -2 l..SAT • 
1717 E. South Bend Avenue 
South Bend, IN 46637 (219} 272•4135 
Take Kaplan Or Take Your Chances 
t:rt-=+ 
-~--­

Monday, October 2, 1989 
The Observer 
page 15 

'Dawg Pound' call upsets Reeves 
Associated Press 
Maybe the Cleveland Browns were a little lucky. But just the same, the refs are in the Dawg­house with Denver coach Dan Heeves. 
With the wind at his back, Matt Bahr kicked a 48-yard field goal that barely cleared the crossbar on the final play of the game Sunday, and Cleveland ended its 15-year los­ing streak to Denver with a 16­13 victory. 
Bahr had the wind with him because the two teams were asked to change ends of the field early in the fourth quarter. 
The refs made the switch after the Broncos, pinned at their own 4, were pelted with dog biscuits and other junk from the "Dawg Pound," a por­tion of the Cleveland bleachers so named for the fans' love of their Dawg defense. 
Bahr said the field goal cleared the crossbar by "one or two coats of paint." 
"Do you think that makes a difference when you're trying to make a 48-yard field goal with the wind at y.our back?" Heeves asked. "Heck yes, it makes a difference. 
"I wanted to see unsports­manlike conduct penalties called until they stopped. I thought we were only going to play one play at the other end of the field. I had no idea Cleveland would have the wind at their back for the entire sec­ond half." 
Rams 13, 49ers 12 
Mike Lansford kicked a 26­yard field goal with two sec­onds to play and the Los Angeles Rams foiled another 
/ 

San Francisco fourth-quarter comeback. The Rams remained unbeaten at 4-0, while San Francisco lost its first game. 
Giants 30, Cowboys 13 
Phil Simms overcame three interceptions with two touch­down passes, and the Giants have won their first four games for their best start in 21 years. The winless Cowboys, mean­while, plunged to their worst start since 1963. 
Colts 17, Jets 1 0 
Clarence Verdin returned a punt 49 yards for the winning touchdown as the Indianapolis Colts (2-2) overcame a 1 0-point New York lead. New York is 1­3. 
Oilers 39, Dolphins 7 
Warren Moon completed 19 of 23 passes for 254 yards and two touchdowns, while Houston's defense held Miami quarterback Dan Marino to a career-low 103 passing yards as a starter. 
Steelers 23, Lions 3 
Bubby Brister completed a team-record 15 straight passes, and the Pittsburgh de­fense spoiled Rodney Peete's NFL debut as Detroit quarter­back. 
Vikings 17, Buccaneers 3 
Tommy Kramer replaced the injured Wade Wilson and threw two touchdown passes, while Minnesota's defense held Bucs QB Vinny Testaverde to 82 passing yards. Leo Lewis caught a 28-yard TD pass and returned a punt 65 yards to set up a field goal for the Vikings (2-2). Tampa Bay also is 2-2. 
Bills 31, Patriots 10 
Thurman Thomas scored two touchdowns and had 204 yards in total offense for Buffalo. Jim Kelly threw for three touch­downs as the Bills (3-1) took a 24-3 halftime lead. 
Packers 23, Falcons 21 
Rookie Chris J acke kicked a 22-yard field goal with 1:42 left, capping a 17 -point fourth­quarter for Green Bay. Green Bay (2-2) has trailed in all four of its games before rallying. The Falcons (1-3) led 14-6 at the half and 21-6 after three quarters. 
Bengals 21, Chiefs 17 
Linebacker Leon White ran 22 yards untouched and almost unnoticed on a fourth-quarter fumble return, boosting Cincinnati (3-1) over the aston­ished Chiefs. 
Redskins 16, Saints 14 
Chip Lohmiller kicked three field goals and Gerald Riggs scored a touchdown on a 9­yard run as Washington (2-2) beat New Orleans (1-3). 
Seahawks 24, Raiders 20 
Dave Krieg threw a 19-yard touchdown pass to Brian Blades with 9:58 to play, putting Seattle ahead to stay. Krieg, who completed 22 of 31 passes for 227 yards without an interception, had two touch­down passes, and Blades had seven receptions for 113 yards. 
The touchdown was the sec­ond for Seattle in the fourth quarter. Curt Warner scored on a 6-yard run with 14:02 left, capping an 80-yard, 10-play drive. 
Women sweep pair in weekend soccer 
By COLLEEN HENNESSEY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team raised its record to 5-6 this weekend by defeating both Indiana and Michigan at home. 
The Irish took an early lead Friday night against Indiana when freshman Marta Roemer scored off a Mimi Suba assist at 5:22 of the first half. 
Notre Dame continued to dominate, adding two more goals before halftime. Junior striker Suba recorded another assist 13 minutes later when her corner kick found sophomore Heather Murphy in front of the Hoosier goal. 
Murphy herself had an as­sist at 36:39 of the first half when she sent a long lead from the left touchline to last season's leading scorer, sophomore Susie Zilvitis, who, all alone 20 yards out, was able to slam the ball past Indiana keeper Laurie Sager. 
Indiana threatened early in the second half, but quickly lost steam against the relentless· Irish offense. 
K.T. Sullivan added the final Irish score with 36:15 left in the second half when she re­directed a Bernie Holland shot into the net. Ten minutes later, Indiana's Charna Adamson ruined Notre Dame keeper Michelle Lodyga's shutout with a header off a corner kick. The score did not matter, however, as the Irish won 4­1. 

"We really controlled the whole game," said senior co­captain Sullivan. "We just worked very well together." 
Sunday afternoon, the Irish had it together again, edging past Michigan by a 
score of 4-3. Despite the close score, Notre Dame controlled the action. 
"We probably could have scored a few more goals," said Sisolak, "but we felt pretty good. We were in con­trol." 
Marianne Giolitto scored first for the Irish, and Sullivan added a point on a penalty kick. Suba recorded her third assist of the week­end when senior co-captain Joy Sisolak headed in her corner kick for her second goal of the season, leaving freshman Margaret Jarc to round out the Irish scoring with an unassisted goal. 
"We had it down at their end most of the time (against Michigan)," said Sullivan. "When they scored, it was really on our mental errors." 
One of the Michigan goals came on a penalty kick, the result of a Notre Dame handball in the penalty area. 
"We did well, considering we haven't had a lot of scoring lately," Sullivan said. 
Hall President's Council in Conjunction with Year of the Family Presents: FAMILY FOCUS  
-a weekly in-dorm discussion series on family-related topics beginning Wednesday October 4th at 7:00 Scheduled Topics: October 4th ­"Catholic Family in Modern Times" with Fr. Michael Himes Sarin and Walsh October 11th ­"Alcoholism in the Family" Pangborn, Fisher and Howard November 1st ­"Child Abuse" P. E. and Stanford November 8th ­"Child Development and. How it is Affected by Day Care" B. P. and Cavanaugh November 15th ­"Double Income Families" Farley and Zahm November 29th­"Single Parent Families" Keenan and Lewis December 6th ­"Divorce and Its Effect on the Family" Grace and P. W.  


,. 

r ,. 
Turnovers blacken Purdue's day 
Letnich did not throw for any change this week. 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 

Purdue touchdowns in the first "It seems like I had a lot of
Associate Sports Editor 

half. but Notre Dame defensive things on my mind last week, lineman Jeff Aim did return a but this game everything WEST LAFAYETTE Letnich interception for an clicked," he said. Spoilermakers? 
Irish touchdown. ••• ··we just didn't do it today," In the Michigan State game,
Purdue was not able to live up 

said Letnich. "I feel I made linebackers Ned Bolear and
to its history of ruining Notre 

some junior-high mistakes. I Donn Grimm played the entireDame seasons, but the Boilers' quality of play did a good job of 
know what I did wrong, and I contest. This week, Bolcar and leaving a stench at Ross-Ade know how to correct them." Grimm played a little, then 
Notre Dame nose tackle Chris watched.
Stadium. 

The Boilers, who fell to 1-2 Zorich, whose pressure on The big early lead gave Holtz Letnich led to two first-half in­a chance to give many of his
on the season, turned the ball terceptions, could tell early it younger players game experi­

over eight times in the game and kept a nationwide viewing would be an Irish kind of day. ence, particularly at linebacker. 
audience interested after the "At the beginning of the Michael Smalls, Demetrius 
game, Purdue wasn't as fired DuBose, Nick Smith, Kevin
game had been decided only by 

up as I expected," said Zorich, McShane, Chris Shey and Brian
playing "hot potato" with the 

who had four tackles. "When Hatigan all saw action atfootball. 
we looked them in the eye, they linebacker Saturday.
Backup quarterbacks Eric 
didn't look back at us."

Hunter and Jeff Lesniewicz ••• fumbled and lost the center ••• Holtz wasn't particularly 
Tony Hice, with his best pleased with the play of the re­
snap on three consecutive plays 

passing performance ever serves on offense, but he didfrom scrimmage. 
Saturday, restored his status praise certain individuals like
"Eight turnovers eliminates 

as one of the leading Heisman running back Heggie Brooks
the chance to win against any­

Trophy contenders. (20 yards on scvnn carrins) and
body, much less against Notre 

Hice, who did not put up quarterback Hick Mirer (2-f'or-
Dame," said Purdue coach Fred 

Heisman-like numbers against 5 for 11 yards).
Akers. 

Michigan or Michigan State, "I think as the game wnnt on,
Starting quarterback Steve 

had 270 yards passing and 71 Hick Mirer really got involved
Letnich, who reportedly had 

rushing against Purdue. and competed well." said Holtz.
always dreamed of playing for 

"He ran the option well, he "lie really understood, particu­
Notre Dame, had one night­
larly the fourth quarter, aboutmare of a first half. Letnich 's threw the ball well. he had fun ­
The Observer I Pat Kusek 
getting some first downs.
first-half statistics had him that's just Tony Rice," said 

The Notre Dame defense turned in another stellar performance in That's what impressed me. I
throwing the ball 11 times, Irish coach Lou Holtz. 

holding Purdue to just seven points and forcing eight turnovers. The know he can throw, but he just
completing four passes to Rice, who had called the 

Irish defense has held all four of its opponents to under 20 points really became part of the team
Boilers and three passes to Michigan State game his worst during the young season. Irish defenders. at Notre Dame, noticed the in the fourth quarter." 
"It's pretty plain to me that turned to form Saturday with him on its only two kickoffs of 19-yarder and missed one from wen you play the number-one the Irish gaining 254 yards on the game. 37 yards. 
Irish 

team. you have to play almost­61 carries. The second half, which in­Then third-string quarter­perfect football, and we didn't "We worked out hard this cluded only a pair of I Ientrich back Jeff Lesniewicz entered
continued from page 20 

do that," sard Akers. week on the run in practice, field goals and a last-minute the game -and promptly mis­safety Pat Terrell, whose inter­The Irish scored again on trying to get the running game Purdue touchdown, was memo­handled the center snap, which ception in the end zone stopped their next series, with Rice's back again," said offensive rable only for the comedy pro­was recovered by Notre Dame's Purdue's only serious first-half four-yard keeper capping a 57-guard Tim Grunhard. "We took vided by the reserve Boiler Brian Hatigan. drive. "They're going to com­yard drive. Purdue just as seriously as the quarterbacks, who made the Ilentrich followed with a 22­plete some of their passes. Our With Mirer calling the signals Michigans and Michigan States. center snap seem like the yard field goal that gave Notre goal was not to let them run on the· next series, the Irish It just came down to who search for the Holy Grail. Dame a 40-0 lead. after they caught it." were forced to punt. That wanted it more." Letnich re-entered the game 
Where's Derek Brown? meant it was the Irish defense's Johnson and Watters each On his only two plays of the and handled his first center 
Against Purdue, the sopho­turn to score. added one-yard touchdown game, second-team quarter­snap cleanly. The Hoss-Ade more tight end was all over the Defensive lineman Jeff Aim, runs to close Notre Dame's back Eric Hunter fumbled the fans gave their newfound hero field. who led the Irish with three in­first-half scoring. Craig snap from center, with Irish a standing ovation. 
After recording only one terceptions last year, juggled a Hentrich, who did both the nose tackle Troy H.idgley recov­With 33 seconds left in the 
catch for three yards in the Letnich pass, finally grabbed a kicking and punting for the ering the ball. game, Letnich hit Hod Dennis season's first three games, hold of it and scampered 16 Irish, missed the extra point Those two turnovers led to a 
with a three-yard underhand Brown exploded with four re­yards to give Notre Dame a 21-after Watters' score to make it pair of field-goal attempts by pass for Purdue's only score of ceptions for 101 yards 0 advantage. 34-0 at the intermission. llentrich, who connected on a the day. 


A NEWLY DEVELOPED SELF-PACED SWIM PROGRAM DESIGNED TO MEET THE NEEDS OF SWIMMERS WHO ARE MORE THAN NOVICE, BUT LESS THAN A VARSilY COMPETITOR. 
AN ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING DESIGNED TO 
EXPLAIN THE PHILOSOPHY AND DESCRIBE HOW TO READ THE WRITIEN WORKOUTS. 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4 
WITHGUUn 

12:15 p.m. (During lunch)
BADLANDS 

Sunday October 8, 1989 • 7:30 P.M. 
ROLFS AQUATIC CENTER Morris Civic Auditorium • South Bend, Indiana CLASSROOM 
Advance tickets: limite? supply on sale now at Super Sounds (Concord Mall-Elkhart), World Records (Pierre Moran Mall), Record 
SPONSORED BY NVA
Conneellon (Easy Shopping Center), Tracks (South Bend), Nightwinda (Niles) and the Morris Civic Auditorium Box Office. Charge-by-Phone 
Saturday, with many of those yards coming when he ran after the catch. 
Only a fumble at the Purdue two-yard line diminished Brown's day. 
"The fumble was due to his extra effort in going for the score," said Holtz. "He made a lot of yardage today that the average tight end would not be able to make." 
By the time Brown fumbled, the game had long since been decided. 
Notre Dame's first score came after Stan Smagala caused and recovered a fumble by Purdue running back Jerome Sparkman. The Irish drove 55 yards, with Anthony Johnson running six yards up the middle for the touchdown. 
Purdue had four first-half turnovers, and three of them led to Notre Dame touchdowns. 

"It was just one of those That final, three-minute freak things that happened," scoring drive included a 48­said Alm. "Once. I had the ball yard pass from Rice to Raghib in my hands and I saw the end "Rocket" Ismail, with Rice zone, there was no way that throwing from his own endzone anyone was going to bring me -similar to the bomb on Notre down." Dame's opening series against 
The Notre Dame rushing at­Southern Cal last year. tack, which had been contained Ismail finished with four last weekend by Michigan catches on 93 yards. Purdue State's stellar run defense. re-made sure to kick awav from 
John P. O'Malley 


Sales Representative 
New Memberships or Transfers 
ILLIIIIOII • IIIDIAMA 

Auto & Property Insurance 
CHICAGO 

AAA-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 
MOTOR 

5922 GRAPE ROAD
CLUB 

INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 
219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 Please ask for John O'Malley. 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer JUt advertising. ~ ~ 
~ Call 239-6900 ~ 
SWIMMING FOR FUN AND FITNESS 
WITH THE NEW 
SELF-PACED SWIM PROGRAM 


u a 
Monday, October 2, 1989 The Observer 
Kansas State still celebrating win 
Associated Press 
MANHATTAN, Kan. -The 
losing  streak  is  history  at  
Kansas State, and  so  are  the  
goalposts.  

In one of the wildest, most improbable finishes any foot­ball game ever provided, the Wildcats of Kansas State put an end to their 30-game winless streak Saturday with a 20-17 defeat of North Texas, No. 1 in Division 1-AA. 
"One thing I've learned here at K-State that's going to make me a better person is that I'll never quit," said guard Chad Faulkner, a senior who before Saturday had never left a col­lege ~eld a winner. "It was un­n~al. 
The Eagles of North Texas were outplayed all day and vic­tory -at last -seemed within reach of the Wildcats. They were leading 14-10 and had the Eagles staring at fourth-and­19 from the K-State 4 7 less than two minutes left. A long­suffering crowd of about 26,000 came to its feet as Eagle quarterbac"k Scott Davis scrambled for one last despera­tion heave. 
Twice Davis was almost 
sacked. Then he launched the ball as hard as he could and Carl Brewer snatched it away from two defenders as he fell into the end zone. 
It appeared the curse of K­State was alive. 
The winless streak would reach 31 games. The losing streak would hit 17. National embarrassment would deepen. 
North Texas confidently kicked off. The Wildcats then had 1:35 in which to go 85 yards. 
What were the odds? 
Whatever they were, Carl Straw beat them. He whipped the Wildcats downfield in nine plays, with wide receiver Michael Smith accounting for 76 himself and helping Straw overcome two sacks. 
Then, from the 12 on what everybody knew would be the last play, Straw threw a perfect strike to Frank Hernandez streaking across the middle. Hernandez stepped into the corner of the end zone, and a roar went up from the crowd that one player later described as "kind of scary." 
A melee erupted. Jubilant fans who hadn't tasted victory since October 1986 mobbed coaches, players and each other. They didn't even attempt the extra point. Within minutes, both goalposts were collapsing.· 
Straw, who replaced starter Chris Cobb in the second quar­ter, swears he knew all along the Wildcats would win. 
"In my career, 15 years, that was the first time I had a per­fectly clear head. I had no doubt that we were going to win that game," he said. "Even when they scored, I knew we were going win it because this team had gone too far to lose a game like that." 
First-year head coach Bill Snyder, an island of calm in an ocean of happy frenzy, said lit­tle thought was given to going for a tying field goal. He also admitted that Straw came close to being benched before the fi­nal drive. 
"I came within an eyelash of replacing Carl because of some of the mistakes he made," Snyder said. 
Twenty minutes afterward, Straw was still wiping tears from his eyes. 
"Sorry, fellas, but I'm still kind of emotional," he said. "But for the rest of my life, no matter what happens, I don't know what could ever be a greater feeling than this." 
Big Ten splits in non-conference 
Associated Press 
They lost to the mighty, the Notre Dames and Miamis of Florida. 
They beat the less than mighty, the Tulsas and Miamis of Ohio. 
And. after a month of 30 non­eonference football games, the Big Ten is 15-15, an even .500. 
On Saturday, Purdue lost to top-rated Notre Dame 40-7, Michigan State lost to No. 2 Miami, Florida 26-20, sixth­ranked Michigan got by Maryland 41-21, Indiana de­feated Toledo 32-12, Iowa trimmed Tulsa 30-22, Ohio State edged Boston College 34­29 and Minnesota downed Indiana State 34-14. 
No. 20 Illinois, Wisconsin and Northwestern were idle. 
In East Lansing, Mich., Michigan State coach George Perles had nothing but praise for Miami's defense. 
"I would say that's one of the best defensive lines around," Perles said. 

DOMER DASH & DINE 
Saturday, October 7 
The Dash: 11 :00 a.m.3 & 6 Mile Runs Pre-Football Game The Dine: Immediately Following <<<<<All You Can Eat>>>>> 
page 17 

AP Top 25 Rankings 
How The Associated Press Top Twenty Five college football teams fared and their next opponents: 
1. 
Notre Dame (4-0-0) beat Purdue 40-7; Next: at Stanford. 

2. 
Miami. Fla. (4-0-0) beat Michigan State 26-20; Next: vs. Cincinnati. 

3. 
Nebraska (4-0-0) beat Oregon State 35-7; Next: vs. Kansas State. 

4. 
Auburn (2-1-0) lost to No. 12 Tennessee 21-14; Next: at Kentucky. 

5. 
Colorado (4-0-0) beat No. 21 Washington 45-28: Next: vs. Missouri. 

6. 
Michigan (2-1-0) beat Maryland 41-21; Next: vs. Wisconsin. 

7. 
Clemson (4-1-0) lost to Duke 21-17; Next: vs. Virginia. 

8. 
Arkansas (3-0-0) beat Texas-El Paso 39-7; Next: at Texas Christian. 

9. 
West Virginia (4-0-1) tied Pittsburgh 31-31; Next: vs. Virginia Tech. 

10. 
Pittsburgh 13-0-1) tied No.9 West Virginia 31·31; Next: at Temple. 

11. 
USC (3-1-0) beat No. 19 Washington St. 18-17; Next: vs. Washington. 

12. 
Tennessee (4-0-0) beat No.4 Auburn 21-14; Next: vs. No. 23 Georgia. 

13. 
Alabama 13-0-0) beat Vanderbilt 20-14; Next: at Mississippi. 

14. 
Houston (3-0-0) beat Temple 65-7; Next: vs. Baylor. 

15. 
NC State (5-0-0) beat Kent State 42-22; Next: vs. Middle Tennessee. 

16. 
Oklahoma (3-1-0) beat Kansas 45-6; Next: vs. Oklahoma State. 

17. 
Arizona (3-2-0) lost to Oregon 16-1 0; Next: vs. UCLA. 

18. 
Syracuse 12-1-0) did not play; Next: vs. No. 25 Florida State. 

19. 
Washington State (4-1-0) lost to No. 11 USC 18-17; Next: at Oregon. 

20. 
lllinois (2-1.-0) did not play; Next: at Ohio State. 

21. 
Washington (2-2-0) lost to No. 5 Colorado 45-28; Next: at No. 11 USC. 

22. 
Texas A&M (3-1-0) beat Southern Miss 31-14; Next: at Texas Tech. 

23. 
Georgia (2-1-0) lost to South Carolina 24-20; Next: at Tennessee. 

24. 
Air Force (5-0-0) beat Colorado State 46-21; Next: at Navy. 

25. 
Florida State (2-2-0) did not play; Next: at No. 18 Syracuse. 


Brown 
continued from page 20 
"He's just too good a tight end to try to stiek a linebaeker on him and cover him all over the field," said junior tailback Ricky Watters. "That's why he was getting wide-open." 
Purdue learned that lesson the hard way. Brown caught three passes in the first half, all of which lead to Irish touch­downs. 
On his first catch, quarter­back Tony Rice scrambled until he found Brown wide-open across the field. The play re­sulted in a 27 yard-gain that put the Irish at the Purdue 11­yard line. 
Rice connected with Brown 
for 23 yards on Notre Dame's 
next series. Two plays later, the 
Irish were in the end zone. 
Brown's most impressive play 
might have been the third 
cateh, which started with Notre 
Dame at its own 44-yard line. 
Rice's pass· to'· Br6wn. trayeled 
about six yards, then Brown 
dodged a tackler early and 
turned the play into a 38-yard 
gain.· 
"He ran good routes, caught 
the ball and ran physically," said Holtz. "We've known he could do that. It was just a question of getting him the ball." 

After setting up touchdowns during the first half, it looked as though the 6-foot-7, 235­pounder would score one in the third quarter. 
Brown caught a pass at about the Purdue five yard-line but fumbled and moved ahead, but he fumbled the ball on the two-yard line as the Boilers re­covered. 
"I gave it second effort, and I 
didn't have too much pressure 
on the ball," said Brown, whose 
first collegiate reception was a 
touchdown catch against 
Purdue last year. "When I got 
hit, the ball popped out." 
That mistake resulted in a 
short lecture from Holtz. 
"I know he wanted to put the ball in the endzone, but still we've got to remember to be more conscious of protecting the football," Holtz said. "Derek Brown is really a fine tight end." 
Brown proved that again last 
weekend. The Boilermaker de­
fense can only wish they 
wouldn't always be around 
when the Irish choose to throw 
to him. 
In Ann Arbor, Mich., Michigan quarterback Elvis Grbac completed his first five passes, two of them for touch­downs. 
"I worked hard in practice all week and I think the guys have confidence in me," Grbac said. 
Big Ten teams begin confer­ence play next Saturday, with Ohio State at Illinois, Northwestern at Indiana, Michigan St. at Iowa, Wisconsin at Michigan and Purdue at Minnesota. 

All 
Men's 

SPAGHETTI DINNER 
before the Stanford Game "Run for the Irish" 
Undergraduate  Women's  Undergraduate  
Graduate  Graduate  
Faculty/Staff  Faculty/Staff  
$4.00  In  Advance  

$6.00 Day Of 
....,. 
NON-VARSITY ATHLETICS 

Observer classifieds will be accepted from 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 LaFortune. 
Saturday. Oct. 14 8:00pm Morns Clv1c AliditowJm all seats reserved 
$16 50 
Tickets on sale 
NOW 
Civ1c.Box Office. Nightwinds Record Connect1on & usual outlets CHARGE 284-9190 

Wrigleyville ready for NL playoffs 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -When the lights go on at Wrigley Field this week for tlw first time in post­season play. Angela Dombi and her roommate will trot their TV out onto their porch a half­block from the ballpark to cheer wildly for the Cubs. 
Not Wrigley neighbor Charlotte Newfeld. Nnwfeld wants rain. Lots of it. 
While vendors prepare for Cubs fans by the thousands for Wednesday's night game against the San Francisco Giants and taverns stock their bars for the same, Wrigleyville, the quiet, gentrified neighbor­hood surrounding the ballpark, also readies. 
But nobody's quite sure what they're readying for. 
The Cubs, who won their divi­sion in 1984, last appeared in the World Series in 1945 and last won the Fall Classic in 1908. 
Nobody expected the Cubs to get this far. After a dismal spring that left the National League team with nine victories and 23 losses. everyone ex­pected the worst. The Associated Press, The Sporting News and Inside Sports all pre­dicted the Cubs would finish fifth in their division. 
Said Steve Wulf of Sports Illustrated: "The Cubs ... have had only one winning season since 1972. You can be certain this will not be their second." 
For another thing. Wrigley Field has never hosted a playoff game at night. In 1988, the venerable stadium became the last in the major leagues to turn the lights on baseball. 
Newfeld, president of a group anachronistically called "Citizens United for Baseball in Sunshine," said her group's so rattled. they have demanded a meeting with Mayor Richard M. Daley. 
"Noise. Congestion. Hevelers. It's an impossible situation," she said. 
"Best case scenario: it rains." 

Police and sanitation workers say they're ready. planning roughly the same type of backup they do for other night games. But police won't give any more details. And the two aldermen whose wards are nean~st the ballpark say they'll be monitoring the situation 
closely. 


Sludenl Cen!er Box Off~e Mas!erCard ar<l V1sa Orders 239·7442 

NL: N.Y. Mets 
AL: Baltimore Orioles 
1970 
NL: Cincinnati Reds 
AL: Baltimore Orioles 
1971 
NL: Pittsburgh Pirates 
AL: Baltimore Orioles 
1972 
NL: Cincinnati Reds AL: Oakland A's 
1973 
NL: N.Y. Mets AL: Oakland A's 
1974 
NL: Los Angeles Dodgers AL: Oakland A's 
1975 
NL: Cincinnati Reds AL: Boston Red Sox 
1976 
NL: Clnclnnatl Reds AL: N.Y. Yankees 
1977 
NL: Los Angeles Dodgers AL: N.Y. Yankees 
1978 
NL: Los Angeles Dodgers AL: N.Y. Yankees 
"We're all Cub fans. We're all fans of Chicago." Alderman Bernard Hansen said. "We're going to work together to keep problems to a minimum." 
Wrigleyville -the name itself derived from the 75-year-old ballpark -is a densely packed neighborhood of small grey­stone buildings and frame homes that has gone from bust to boom since the early 1980s. 
While some residents chose 
the neighborhood specifically 
for its closeness to the unusu­
ally luckless Cubs, many 
flooded the neighborhood for 
its turn-of-the-century housing 
stock and quiet, tree-lined 
streets. 
Last week, many seemed un-
NL: Pittsburgh Pirates 
AL: Baltimore Orioles 
1980 
NL: Philadelphia Phillles AL: Kansas City Royals 
1981 
NL: Los Angeles Dodgers AL: N.Y. Yankees '•
1982 
NL: St. Louts Cardinals 
AL: Milwaukee Brewers 
1983 
NL: Philadelphia Phlllles AL: Baltimore Orioles 
1984 
NL: San Diego Padres AL: Detroit Tigers 
1985 
NL: St. Louis Cardinals AL: Kansas City Royals 
1986 
NL: N.Y. Mets AL: Boston Red Sox 
1987 
NL: St. Louis Cardinals AL: Minnesota Twins 
1988 
NL: Los Angeles Dodgers AL: Oakland A's 
concerned about the local sports heroes and their impact on the area. 
"Sure, there's more people trying to park -but there's never any room to park," said Ruth Miller as she pushed her portable grocery cart towards her lakefront apartment. 
"I don't know the difference between a football and a base­ball, but I was real excited" when the Cubs clinched the divi­sion, she added. 
Resident permit-parking was instituted with the introduction of night games, but there have been complaints that enforce­ment is spotty. 

A one-day seminar designed to help you make the transition from student to professional. 
Saturday, November 4, 1989 
The cost of the seminar is $} 0, and hotel accommodations are available at a reduced rate. 
Sessions offered this year include: 
• 
Chemical Dependence in the Hospitalized Patient 

• 
Coping Measures for the Oncology Nurse 

• 
Financial Planning for the Young Professional 

• 
lnVitro Fertilization 


• 
Transition: From New Graduate to Expert Nurse 

• 
Images of the Professional Nurse 

• 
Creating a Successful Future 

• 
Dialysis: A Treatment Modality for Renal Failure 

• 
Discharge Planning: Special Needs for Special People-Senior Adults 

• 
Overview of Organ Transplantation 


• Technological Advances in  CALL COLLECT  
Outpatient Surge!)'  507-286-7033  
For Registration,  
Transition is sponsored by  Information and Brochure  

Rochester Methodist HosR_it_al____. 
A MAYO FOUNDATION HOSPITAL 

Learning Resources Department 20 I West Center Street Deadline for registration Rochester, MN 55902 is Oct 24, 1989 
Major League Standings 
AMEHICAN LEAGUE East Division 
w I. 
Toronto 8'J 7:l Baltimore !!7 
75 Boston 83 
79 Milwaukee 81 
81 New York 74 !!7 ClevPiand 73 
89 Detroit 59 
103 West Division 
w I. 
Oakland 99 6:l Kansas City 92 
70 California 91 
71 Texas 83 
79 Minnesota 80 
82 Seattle 73 
89 Chicago 69 
92 
NATIONAl. LEAGUE East Division 
w I. 
Chieago 93 69 New York 87 75 St. Louis 86 76 Montreal 81 81 Pittsburgh 74 88 Philadelphia 67 95 West Division 
w I. 
San Francisco 92 70 San Diego 89 73 Houston 86 7ft Los Angeles 77 83 Cindnnati 75 87 Atlanta 63 97 z-d<>noles nrst gamp was a win 
Pet  Gil  1.10  
.549  5-5  
.5:{7  2  z~5-5  
.512  6  z-!!·2  
.500  8  4-ll  
.460  14 t/2  z-&·4  
.451  16  z·(o-4  
.:{64  :lO  2-8  
Pet  Gil  1.10  
.611  z-7-3  
.568  7  z-5-5  
.562  8  2-8  
.512  16  5-5  
.494  19  4-6  
.45t  2&  6-4  
.429  2') 1/2  z-5-~  
Pet  Gil  1.10  
.574  z-8-2  
.537  6  z-7-3  
.531  7  4-6  
.500  12  z-:l-7  
.457  19  H  
.414  26  5-5  
Pet  Gil  1.10  
.568  z-4·6  
.549  3  z-6-4  
.531  6  4-6  
.481  14  5-5  
.463  17  5-5  
.394  2!!  z-5-5  

AMEHICAN LEAGUE Sunday"s Games Boston 5. Milwauk1w I Detroit 5. N<>w York 3 BaltimorP 7. Toronto 5 Cleveland 1. Chicago 0 California 4. Texas 3 Oakland 4. Kansas City 3. 11 innings Seattln 3. Minnesota 1 
Sunday"s (;ames 
Philadelphia 5. MonlrPal 3 
N1•w York 7. Pittsburgh :{ 
Houston 2, Cindnnati 0 
Chicago 5. St. Louis 1 
San Diego 3. San Frandsen 0 
l.os AngPil)s :l. Atlanta I. 12 innings 

STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGS! 
r------·COUPON SAVINGS-------.
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT l 
I Reg. $8 MasterCuts I 
family haircutters I

L-------------------, 
~ $1 ?e~~ STUD~~~ 
r-------------------1 
I $5OFF ANY PERM I 
I MasterCuts I
I family haircutt~ I ~------------------~ 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters University Park Mall 277-3770 
-~-----------------------------------------------------------------~------------~--------~----~ 
Monday, October 2, 1989 The Observer 
page 19 

LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
Monday 
7:30 p.m. Room 124, Crowley Hall of Music. Professor Leonard Meyer from the University of Pennsylvania will present "Ideology and Music in the 19th Century." 
CAMPUS EVENTS 
Monday 
12:00 p.m. ISO Lounge, LaFortune. Fireside chat with Professor Jim Bellis of NO Department of Anthropology, "Reflections on Living Abroad," as part of Multi-cultural Fall Festival. Sponsored by the Multi-cultural Executive Council. Free lunch is included. 
8:00 p.m. Alumni Room, Morris Inn. Presentation and reception for all students interested in discovering career opportunities with the Travelers' Companies. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services 

BILL WATTERSON 

PIPE OOWt-t, ~Ill 'it>. ROI. ?' \.1088£5 AI-ID i CAt{ 11~ROL'< \.IE~.R -mE 1'1 .' 
WILBUR AND WENDEL 
ACROSS 25 Communicates, 47Weep in away 
48 Victor over1 Decays 29 Strikes Bryan5 Church part 31 Dandy

8 Block of stamps 57 President of 14 Baal, e.g. 
34 Add beauty Costa Rica 

15 Begin a card 35 Indonesian 58 Swiss river game 
island 591reland,to a Gael 18 Diacritical mark 36 Ali of "The 60 Clever

17 Nick Charles's Arabian Nights" wife 37 Victor over Ford 61 Where Teheran is
18 Burden 40 Matures 19 Drew or Terry of 62 Depraved
41 Disencumbers 
stage fame 42 Rent 63 Damages20 Victor over 
43 "For-ajolly 64 Some limbs 
Blaine and 
good. " 

Harrison 65 Profound 44 Sly
23 Golf gadget 24 Madison Ave. 
45 Book names 
DOWN

prodi,ICtS 46 Circle part 1 Resound 2 Aroma ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 3 Matador's opponent 4 Serb or Croat 
5 Worships 6 British coins 7 First king of 
Israel a Otherwise 9 Equines 


'lo\l'R£. NO\ ARE '{O\l 18? S\JPPOSED '{()IJ CO\JLD GEl 
TO BE VS "'IE:t-l\lSIAN Wt>.TCHING IJAMPIR£ 'II)(EN':>".' TELE'/1'5\0N! 
JAY HOSLER 


21 Collar and jacket  32 Greatly  46 Tocsin  
22 Prophetic  overweight  47 Scrawny one  
25 Indian prince  33 Trims  48 Lave  
26 Saying  35 Remove water,  49 "-Ia Douce"  
27 Parts of many  as from a boat  50 Prevaricator  
capitols  36 Harte or  51 Post  
28 Angers  Maverick  52 Foal's mother  
29 He wrote "Jude  38 Author Jong  53 Require  
the Obscure"  39 Excuse  54 Not taped  
30 Misfortunes  44 Carpal joints  55 A Great Lake  
31 Deadly  45 Keepsakes  56 Hound's sound  

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

.. 


**********************************************************************************************•
* *
* f Congratulations to * f 
* * f ~@~@ ~@[[lJ@[ru@[[lJ !• •
* • i * Student Union Board i • i* * * Member of the Month i*• •
* • 
:.********************************************************************************************: 
-
Sports
page 20 Monday, October 2, 1989 
Notre Dame rolls past hapless Boilermakers 

By STEVE MEGARGEE captain finished with his best Associate Sports Editor passing day ever ( 12-of-15 for 270 yards) before giving way to 
WEST LAFAYETTE -Notre Rick Mirer and Pete Graham Dame's top-ranked Fighting for much of the second half. Irish spent a wnnk hearing peo­More importantly for Holtz, ple question their abilities after the rejuvenated lleisman last weekend's near-upset loss Trophy candidate, who also to Michig<lll State. had 71 yards on 12 rushes, led 
Then they wnnt out and an­the Irish to touchdowns on five swered just about every one of of their first seven drives. tlwm in a 40-7 rout of a pitiful "I evaluate Tony Hice solely Purdue team that committed on how many times he g(Jts the night turnovers Saturday at team in the end zone," said Hoss-Ade Stadium. Holtz. "lie ran the option well 
In a game similar to last and had a strong day passing, year's 51-7 rout of Purdue, the but that is not unexpected from Irish jumped out to a :l4-0 half­a. pl~yer the caliber of Tony time lead. outgaining the Hwe. Boilermakers 344-93, before What about the Irish pass de­letting their reserves get some fense? game expnrience in the final :w The Irish, who had allowed minutes. Michigan quarterback Elvis 
"They're the most talented Grbac and Michigan State's group I've seen put together in Dan Enos to have big days. a long time, maybe thn best bottled up. Purdue's Steve ever," said Purdue coach Pred Letnich (11-of-28 for 89 yards Akers, who has been a head and three interceptions). coach since 1975. "They are With the Notre Dame defen­clearly the number-one team in sive Hne pressuring the quar­the country." terback througlwut the first 
Quite a few people had doubts half and the secondary holding about that after Notre Dame's top Boiler receiver Calvin 21-13 escape of Michigan State, Williams to three catches for 
Derek Brown haunts Purdue

which only gave skeptics more 10 yards, Purdue never had an reasons to doubt Notre Dame's opportunity to get into the chances of defending the na­game. 
for second consecutive year

tional title. "We knew who their best re­What's the matter with Notre ceivers were and knew their By STEVE MEGARGEE season at Notre Dame (12 re­Dame's passing game? tendencies," said junior free Associate Sports Editor ceptions for 150 yards and Tony Rice had 207 passing three touchdowns) led to 
more WEST LAFAYETTE -Derek honors this fall.
yards -at halftime. The tri-see IRISH I page 16 
Brown knew that it was only a A pair of pre-season publica­matter of time before the ball tions named the sophomore as started coming his way. the seeond-best tight end in the 
"I knew my day was going to nation. In its pro football pre­come, eventually," said the view issue, Sports Illustrated sophomore tight end, who included Brown on its prospec­caught four passes for 101 tive 1995 all-pro team. yards in Saturday's 40-7 dis­Brown showed Purdue's sec­mantling of Purdue. "And as ondary and a nationwide t(Jlevi­long as we win, I really don't sion audience exactly why he care." earned those compliments. 
In the first three games of the "With their coverage, they season, the Irish were winning run primarily man-to-man, and but Brown wasn't doing much it's just the receiver's job to receiving. Brown's only recep­beat whoever's guarding us and tion this season heading into get separation," said Brown. the weekend was a three-yard "In the seeond half. they catch against Michigan State. started putting an extra man 
Those were not the sort of on me, and then I wasn't op~m." statistics one would expeet That first-half defense was from a player as highly -touted not too effective in stopping as Brown. Named the national Notre Dame's powerful tight 
The Observer 1 Pat Kusek 
Parade High School Player of end. 

Freshman Reggie Brooks ran for
the Year at Merritt Island, Fla., 

20 yards in his first collegiateBrown's impressive freshman see BROWN I page 17 

Broken 
IU ends ND string at home, page 14 
Sweep 
Women's soccer wins pair, page 15 
Cub mania 
Wrigley fans await playoffs, page 18 
game with Notre Dame. 

Men's cross country team pulls off upset 
By MARY GARINO with Boston College at 91 Hyan Cahill finisht~d ninth for wanted a good mnet. and tlw Sports Writer points. the Irish and Pat Knarns team ran really well." Notn~ Dame head coach Joe complett~d the scoring with Providence challt~ngNI thl' The Notre Dame men's cross 
Piane was proud of his team's fourteenth place. Piane noted Irish in the National Catholics 
country team rose to the 
performance. that the runners did wnll last ynar, and sufTered a third­occasion and dnl'eated rival "This was a big upset," Piane considering some hindernnens. place finish. This yt~ar. it only
Providence to win the National said after the race. "All week "Mike O'Connor did a f'ine 
managed to put two runners in Catholic meet on Friday long, we've been hearing about job," said Piann. "Not many the top I 0, in fourth and tPnth. afternoon. all of Providence's runners who people knew that both he and 
The five-mile race, held at the can run a four-minute mile. But Tom O'Hourke had bnen sick "It was a good race to win,"Burke Memorial Golf Course, 
this was a five mile race, and this week, and Hyan Cahill O'Hourke noted. "It will help us 
was expected to be a battle our kids ran wonderfully." didn't train for a full week 
in tho rankings, but that is not between the 15th-ranked Irish The Irish placed four runners after the Georgetown meet." the important thing. It was a and the second-ranked Friars in the top 10. Senior captain Irish runners were in the lead good education, and it will givoof Providence. But it was no Mike O'Connor carne in third to throughout the race, starting us some momentum." contest. Notre Dame collected lead the team to victory. His off quickly and never Intting up.only 39 points, seven points less classmate Tom O'Hourk(1 was Eddie Slowikoski won the Notre Dame should indoed than their total from last year's sixth, and was followed by individual honors while leading movo up in tho national cross victory in the same meet. freshman sensation J.T. Burke. his Loyola teammates to third country polls, due to he 
Providence accumulated 56 Burke followed up his place overall. But it was released on Tuosday. As Piane points, good enough for outstanding performance in the Providence that the Irish knew noted, the after defeating the second. Loyola placed two Georgetown meet last week they would have to beat. second team in the nation, the runners in first and second and with a solid effort again in the "We were really up for the Irish shouldn't be number 15 held on to finish third, tying National Catholics. meet," said O'Connor. "We just any longer. 
-

