Pot of Gold
IACCENT: 'Cousins' Mostly sunny and warmer today with highs around 40. 
Warmer Friday with a 
chance of showers, high
IVIEWPOINT: British abuse of Irish 
near 50. 


VOL. XXII, NO. 101 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Tank repaired on shuttle Discovery 
Associated Press 
and an erupting volcano in 
HOUSTON-The lights came Guatamala. back on the Discovery space They also conducted medical shuttle Wednesday after Mis­tests on each other. While float­sion Control apparently fixed a ing on the flight deck, Dr. troublesome hydrogen tank James M. bagian took Coats' and told the astronauts not to blood pressure, checked his worry about conserving ener­pulse and pressed a small gy. device to his temple to measure 
Discovery's five astronauts the blood flow in his head. had switched off unnecessary lights and computers because The tests were to help deter­of concern about erratic pres­mine what effect zero gravity sure readings from one of three has on blood flow. hydrogen tanks aboard the Mission Control awoke the shuttle. The tank, which helps crew with a full brass band supply "electricity, was taken rendition of the Marine Corps out of service Tuesday while Hymn. engineers studied the problem. "We got two Marines stand­
The crew turned the tank ing at attention up here," joked 
Tile ·Observer I Heleni Korwek 
back on Wednesday morning Coats, a Navy captain. "What but used only one of its two do we do now?" 
Hearts leap and run 
Students brave the cold as they participate in the the run, Heartlight offers "Heart-Safe" menus in the1 
heaters. Mission Control told Astronauts James F. Buchli
Heartlights 3 Mile Fun Run yesterday. In addition to dining halls to increase healthiness on campus. 
the crew that early pressure and Robert C. Springer are readings showed the tank was Marine colonels. Bagian is a working properly. physician, and pilot John E. "That's good news to hear," Blaha is an Air Force colonel. 

U.S. military attache called a spy replied Discovery commander Michael Coats. Discovery's primary
and expelled from the Soviet Union The hydrogen is combined mission--deployment of a $100 
with oxygen in the fuel cells to million communications 
Associated Press 

a period in which superpower Gerasimov said, tacitly ack­produce electricity for shuttle satellite--was completed Mon­
MOSCOW-The Soviet Union relations have markedly im­nowledging the connection be­systems, with water as a day several hours after the shot back Wednesday in an proved. tween last week's incident and byproduct. shuttle rocketed into orbit. espionage war with Washing­It clouded relations with the the expulsion of Van Gundy. ·~It Ground controllers were con­ton, ordering a U.S. military at­administration of George Bush does not fit in with the trend cerned that without use of the The Tracking and Data tache expelled and saying the even before the president, who for the positive development of third hydrogen tank, there may Relay Satellite completes a atmosphere of "spy mania" took office in January, an­Soviet-American relations.'' not be enough electricity to sup­network that will allow ground bodes ill for relations with the nounced the results of a review The superpowers already port a five-day flight, plus two controllers almost unbroken Bush administration. of American policy toward the have clashed over arms con­days for contingencies. radio contact with shuttles and 
Foreign Ministry spokesman Soviet Union. trol. other satellites. The satellite Gennady Gerasimov said "The U.S. administration is But flight director Granvil deployed Monday and another Army Lt. Col. Ganiel Francis revealing its foreign policy, The Soviets have expressed Pennington said the problem launched last year will provide Van Gundy Nil, an assistant and we have this problem of unhappiness with U.S. plans to seemed fixed, meaning Dis­the nearly continuous military attache at the U.S. em­spy mania," Gerasimov told modernize and expand . bat­covery is headed for a 6:34a.m. coverage, while a third one bassy, was a spy and that he reporters. tlefield nuclear weapons in PST landing time Saturday at above the Earth will act as an must leave the country in 48 He cited a recent Time mag­Europe. Mter the meeting with Edwards Air Force Base, in-orbit spare. hours. azine cover story on the 1987 Foreign Minister Eduard Calif., as planned. 
Gerasimov said Moscow was Marine spy scandal at the U.S. Shevardnadze in Vienna on The Discovery flight is the responding to Washington's ex­embassy in Moscow and said March 7, Secretary of State The five astronauts went first of seven shuttle missions pulsion last week of a Soviet American leaders uninterested James A. Baker III objected to about the business of monitor­planned this year and the 28th military attache it accused of in improving relations had the Soviets' attempt to seek re­ing experiments and trying to overall. It also is the third trying to buy computer secrets. tried to incite fears of duction in combat aircraft and photograph environmentally shuttle flight since the Chal­
Van Gundy's ouster was the espionage. naval forces, as well as the damaged areas of the Earth, lenger exploded and killed its first Soviet expulsion of a U.S. "We're not the ones who in-including scars from a recent seven astronauts more than diplomat in almost 2 12 years, itiated this process," see SPY, page 7 fire in the Florida everglades three years ago. 

Former CIA agent Agee discusses covert activity 
By JOHN O'BRIEN shouldn't. It was formed to tions in the late 1940's to its cur­with the death squads in El Sal­the CIA soon after graduating ~taff Reporter serve the government and its rent involvement in El Sal­vador," Agee said. from Notre Dame with a phi­policies are dictated by the cur­vador and its backing of the The attempts to "restore losophy degree in 1956. 
Phillip Agee, a 1956 Notre rent administration," Agee Contras in Nicaragua. Democracy" to Nicaragua He left the CIA in 1969, be­Dame graduate and a former said. which Presidents Reagan and cause the Agency was support­CIA agent, described CIA Agee said that the original Bush have supported by fun­ing greedy and corrupted covert intelligence activities purpose of the agency as an ding the Contras were people, he said. and told of his experiences both means of gaining information criticized by Agee. Soon after, he began work on as an agent and an object of has been altered to concentrate "God save Nicaragua from "Inside the Company,:' which CIA surveillance. on covert activies which he restoration of democracy by exposed many CIA secrets and 
Agee, who wrote the contro­called "murderous" and "il­the U.S.," said Agee. Agee revealed the names of versial book, "Inside the Com­legal." was greeted by a mix of ap­hundreds of CIA agents and pany," which revealed sensi­"The money you are paying plause and boos as he made his front organizations, causing an tive information on CIA to the government in the form first public appearance at international uproar. activities, criticized the CIA of taxes is being used to mur­Notre Dame in over 30 years. and the presidential ad­der," Agee said. His lecture, sponsored by the "I knew I couldn't change the ministrations under which it Agee gave a history of Student Union Board, was CIA's policies. But I also knew has operated. numerous covert activities delivered to a standing-room I could weaken the execution 
"The CIA doesn't have a which the CIA has carried out only crowd in Washington Hall. see AGEE, page 4 policy of its own and it from influencing Italian elet.:-Agee started working with 




IN BRIEF 
Terry Coyne and Fred Tombar both placed first at the Indiana State Speech Championships in Extem­poraneous Speaking and Prose reading respectively. Both qualified for the National Championships in New Jersey. Along with Jim McCarthy and Rob Henning, Terry and Fred are leading the biggest team in the University's his­tory. -The Observer 


OF INTEREST 
·' 
Swim lessonsforchildrenoffaculty!administratioll!Staff will take place at Rolfs Aquatic Center on Saturdays begin­ning March 18 and ending May 6. For more information, call Dennis Stark at 239-5983. -The Observer 
CILA dinner rap session CILA hosts a dinner tonight at 5 p.m. upstairs in the South Dining Hall. Professor Edward Goerner will speak on politics and aristocracy. 
-The Observer 
Student Art exhibit applications can be picked up in the Office of Student Activities, LaFortune. Deadline for submittance of artwork is today. For more information, contact Josef Henriquez at 283-1584. -The Observer 
Northern Ireland seminar participants who went on the spring break trip to Northern Ireland will talk about their experience today at 6:30p.m. in the Center for Social 

, Conerns. All are invited to attend. -The Observer 
Foodshare meeting tonight at 8 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. All members who signed up to help or anyone who has time to contribute to the fight against hunger and homelessness should attend. For more infor­mation, or if you are unable to attend, contact Lisa Mackett or Vibha Monteirs. -The Observer 
NO Encounter 4th Day meets tonight in the South Lounge of Walsh Hall at 9 p.m. Tonight's topic is building of the future Church. All past Encounter participants are welcome. -The Observer 
Friday Forum at the CSC Tomorrow is the third in the "Year of Cultural Diversity" series. Professor Luis Fraga will speak on "Immigrants and Minorities? Inter­preting the Latino Experience in the U.S.," at 12:15 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
A presention on Colombia will be held during the ISO Coffee Hour tonight at 7:30p.m. There will be both a slide-show and a discussion on the state of affairs in Colom­bia. -The Observer 
Optional laundry service for both men and women will be discussed tonight at 7 p.m. in 615 Pasquerilla East. For more information call 283-3772. -The Observer 
Nicaraguan Hurricane reliefaid Ifyou are interested in joining a national drive to send hurricane relief aid tl; the people of Nicaragua, come to a brief organizational meeting today at 4:30p.m. in the Center for Social Con­cerns Coffeehouse. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 


Design Editor ................. Chris Labaree Typist .. ... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ... ... .. . Will Zamer Design Assistant . . . . Beth Peterson ........................................ Diana Bradley Typesetters.. ... Andy Schlidt ND Day Editor ..... Margaret McCloskey ......................... Bernard Brenninkmeyer SMC Day Editor .. .. .. Rozel Gatmaitan News Editor... .. ........... Kelley Tuthill Photographer .... ........... Heleni Korwek Copy Editor ....................... Sarah Voigt Ads Designers ................... Jeff Stelmach · Sports Copy Editor ........ Molly Mahoney .......................................... Anne Kenney Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Christine Walsh ......................................... Meg Callahan Viewpoint Layout .................. Moira Fox .......................................... Maria Blohm Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin Irish Extra Designer... .. ..... Ann Buff Accent Copy Editor .. Michelle Berninger Irish Extra Editor ........... Theresa Kelly Accent Designer............... Chris Labaree 
nt o..n.r (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except dlll'iq cumll.lld vacation periods. ne Olllener is published by the studenu of the University of Notre Dame IIJid Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writina ne Olllener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IDdiana 46556. .•. _ 
'At o..n.r is I member ornt-.~Uapdatelil rr-. All reproduction ripU are racrved. 

The Observer Thursday, March 16, 1989 
_I,I¥JI•i:Ueiii1M,_ 
Do unto others: 


The Golden Rule applied 
When I stop and think about it, I am often incredulous at the enormous capacity people have to make fun of anything and everything. 
When I was riding up the chair lift last week during my four-day stint on the ski slopes, for example, I did not waste the opportunity to serenade my partner with an off-key rendition of "Annie's Song" when I saw someone skiing 

below me who was probably John Denver's long­lost twin brother. 
I must admit, I also enjoyed a few laughs at the expense of the ski instructors. It was diffi­~ult to keep a straight face and inwardly spec­ulate what kind of toothpaste they used to keep their teeth so white they even stood out in all the snow. 
Whatever their motives, I have never met anyone whom I haven't known to indulge in this type of so-called humor at one time or another. It's as much a part of being human as waking up in the morning. 
While most people do it in the interest of en­tertainment, rather than because of an inherent desire to be malicious, it might be useful for everyone to stop and think whether the John Denvers of this world would appreciate their quips if they could hear them. Maybe my John Denver clone believes that looking the way he does is social suicide in 1989.1f he does, I haven't helped his image problem. 
I suppose I learned my lesson the hard way, since my own name has been the cause of some less-than-pleasant encounters over the years. There have been times, in my weaker moments, when I have wished with all my heart that my last name was Smith. It's not a particularly original name, but I wouldn't have to worry about tactless phone calls at 3 am. after some­one with a few too many beers under his belt discovered my name in the directory. 
I took it personally, at first, even though I knew that chances were my charming, anonymous caller couldn't pick me out on the quad. It eventually dawned on me that this was a more tactless version of what I mentioned earlier: Man's natural tendency to enjoy laughs at others' expense. This revelation helped to boost my ego, since I now know that these mys­terious charmers weren't harboring a personal vendetta against me. It did not, however, curb my temper. 
That's when I realized that maybe sometimes I was guilty of the same thing. Granted, I wasn't obnoxious enough to walk right up to Chip or Biff or Muffy (or whatever it is ski instructors call themselves these days) and actually ask them if there was any space for rent between their ears. That's not to say I didn't sharpen 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. 
Add some excitement to your Senior Formal with Tuxedos from Louie's 
BLACK CLASSIC 
$32.50* 
DESIGNER BLACK TUXEDOS 
$49.95* 
Choose from: 

Christian Dior Pierre Cardin Yves Saint Laurent Robert Wagner 
Formal Peg Pants Designer Shirts & Vests 

my ability to toss out one-liners when they were out of earshot. I never took into account whether that might be a sensitive subject for them, since I wasn't intending to degrade them personally. I'm just a sucker for a good one-liner, and the victims of my lightning wit happen to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. 
Even though it infuriates me that some people have so little class that they are willing to dis­rupt my life to insult me, I force myself to re­member that while I have more tact than that, I've been guilty too. Nobody likes being slapped in the face for something they can't do anything about. But people seem to have extremely short memories when it's their turn to make the cracks. It's an unfortunate situation when people have to cope with being harassed for bearing a certain name, for acting a certain way, or simply for being themselves. 
Unfortunately, it happens. By now we're all so addicted to cutting each other up we'd prob­ably feel lost if we didn't do it. Standing at my pulpit and demanding that we all cease to be so callous is unrealistic. But we can at least be sensitive enough to stop and feel guilty every once in awhile. And take greater pains to ensure that the John Denver clones don't hear us when we succumb to the urge to begin crooning "You fill up my senses ... " 
Call 239·5303 tqr details. 

. 's has I ' 
Lou•e your stY e. 

University Park Mall 
272-2486 
*Does not include damage waiver fee or extra charge items. 
Thursday, March 16, 1989 The Observer page 3 

Cancellation stamp for National Champs 

By RON SEVERINO 
News Staff 
The U.S. Postal Service headquarters in Washington, 
D.C. has given the South Bend post office permission to issue a green pictorial cancellation stamp in honor of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame football team's 1988 National Champi­flnship season. 
The cancellations will only be 
available Friday, March 17, be­
tween 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. at 
Fighting Irish Station at the 
Century Center in South Bend, 
according to Paul Sniadecki, 
director of marketing at the 
South Bend post office. 
The only requirement for pa­
lAMERICAN j 
trons who want a cancellation will be that they bring a stamped envelope or postcard ready to be cancelled, said Sniadecki. 
A stamp is usually cancelled by affixing three black lines over it, said Sniadecki. This commemorative cancellation, however, will be green with the design of the Notre Dame leprechaun and a football, and the words, "Notre Dame 1988 National Champions." 
Sniadecki said those people not able to attend Friday's can­cellation hours can receive cancellations by sending stamped envelopes or postcards to the South Bend post office. These will be can­celled provided that the patron include a self -addressed, stamped envelope. The re­quests must be postmarked no later than March 17. 
Irish football fans can also obtain a commemorative postcard with the team picture on the front with the scores of the 1988 football season and Knute Rockne stamp cancelled with the green pictorial on the back, said Sniadecki. The cards, also available in the Century Center, will cost $1 and proceeds will benefit the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph County scholarship fund. 
St. Patrick's day salute to National Champions 


TH~ FIGHTING .IRISH 
A green postage cancellation will be offered in South Bend Friday to honor the Notre Dame football team. 
~'--~--ETY~s.....:.·in South Bend: trophy to be presented by AP 
WE HEREBY invite all readers to send us their favorite samples of senatorial sobriety, fidelity, and financial scrupulosity. Winners will receive the Edward Kennedy/ Howard Metzenbaum Memorial A ward for Outstanding Achieve­ment. 
For an introduc­tory 15-issue sub­scription to NA­
noNAL REVIEW for 
just $17.95, call 

By RON SEVERINO pearance by the Notre Dame News Staff football team and marching band and the presentation of 
The South BendMishawaka the Associated Press National community will formally Championship Trophy, said celebrate Notre Dame's Na-Mikki Dobski, director of com­tional Championship football munity affairs in South Bend. season Friday, March 17, at the Doors to Convention Halls A Century Center in South Bend. and B in the Century Center 
The celebration, part of a will be opened to the public at day-long "St. Patrick's Day 3:30 p.m. At 4:15 p.m. a one-Downtown" celebration in hour highlight film of the 12-0 
t;:::::::~s:oo~-~22~2-~6:80:6~...~so~u~t~h~B:e:n~d~,w~il~l~~·n~c~lu:d:e~a~n~a~p~-_;fo:o~tb~a~ll~se:a~s~o:n~w:i~ll~b:e:_:s:ho~w:n~
1 

Alumni-Senior CLUB Applications and Job Descriptions are now available at the Office of Student Activities, 3rd floor La Fortune. 
*Deadline for applications is April 7th 

on two large video screens. 
The Notre Dame marching band will then perform until the 5:30p.m. entrance of the team, cheerleaders, and Irish Guard. 
Remarks about the champi­onship football season will then be made by Indiana dignitaries including South Bend Mayor Joe Kernan, Mishawaka Mayor Bob Beutter, U.S. Congress­man John Hiler, and Indiana 
Secretary of State Joseph Hog-
sett, said Dobski. 
Mter comments by Notre Dame Executive Vice Presi­dent Father William Beau­champ and Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal, the team will officially be presented with the Associated Press National Championship Trophy, accor­ding to Dobski. 
Mter spotlighting the 1988 team tri-captains, the cere­
mony  will  conclude  with  a  
speech  on  the  championship  
season  by  Head  Coach  Lou  

The Observer 
aw 

Mall 
*Irish musicians Dave Glenn ~ ~ 
Tom Dahill will lead the party tunes *Come one and all from 6-12 p.m. 
" 
Holtz and a presentation of the 
highlight film to each member 
of the team, said Dobski. 
"Our whole area is part of this football team," said Holtz. Although the intent of this celebration is for the commu­nity to formally salute Holtz and the football team, Holtz said of the celebration, "They don't owe us a thing. What we accomplished is because of our hard practice. They'll be surprised to find out that we are going there to thank them, not be thanked by them." 
The Irish football team began Spring practice Wednes­day, March 15, and Holtz stressed that St. Patrick's Day will be one last celebration for the team before it lays 1988 to rest and concentrates on the new season. 
"After March 17, hopefully I won't be able to remember who won (the national champion­ship) last year," said Holtz. 
J-Council chooses new coordinator for 1989-90 
By JOHN ZALLER 
News Staff 
Vincent Sanchez, a sopho­more in Keenan, was elected the new Judicial Council Coord­inator at a meeting Wednesday night. 
"I'm looking forward to a real productive year and get­ting a lot of people motivated," Sanchez said shortly after his election. 
Sanchez said, "The biggest problem with the council right now is that not too many people know who we are. We've made alot of progress this year and I hope more people get inter­ested in order for the Judicial Council to become a more ac­tive body within the framework of the University." 
Sanchez pointed out that there are problems within the council, attendance being a large one, but he notM that they are closer to a better rap­port with the administration than last year. 
"Student Mfairs is really willing to listen to us,'' Sanchez said. He hopes that soon more responsibility will be given to the students. Sanchez's term is for the 1989-90 academic year. 
page 4 

McFarlane testifies that Reagan approved secret aid to Contras 

Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-President Reagan in 1985 not only ap­proved a secret pact to give Honduras more than $110 mil­lion for helping the Nicaraguan Contras but he also telephoned Honduras' president when the Honduran military delayed an ammunition shipment to the rebels, the Oliver North jury was told Wednesday. 
Reagan made a note of his call to Roberto Suazo that said the Honduran "will call his mil­itary commander to tell him to deliver the ammunition," former national security ad­viser Robert McFarlane tes­tified at the Oliver North trial. The ammunition then got to the guerrillas. 
Under questioning by defense lawyers, McFarlane detailed how Reagan initialed a plan in mid-February 1985 that resulted in Honduras get­ting speeded-up deliveries of rifles, ammunition and mac­hines. 
It was a "quid pro quo" ar­rangement that Reagan was advised would "provide incen­tives" to the Hondurans for hel­ping out. 
"You're going to give them tens of millions of dollars to 
cooperate?"  North  lawyer  
Brendan Sullivan  asked  
McFarlane.  

"Yes," the witness said. 
"There is nothing dirty about quid pro quo, is there?" 
"No." 
Later, reading from a previ­ously secret memo, Sullivan referred to "$75 million in eco­nomic assistance." He also referred to $35 million in ex­pedited military aid. 
The matter was so sensitive, McFarlane acknowledged un­der questioning, that the ar­rangement was discussed ver­bally by the U.S. ambassador in Honduras with Suazo and was not given to him in writing. 
North's lawyers say the Reagan administration had a policy of hiding such arrange­ments with other countries to support the Contras . 


is currently accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
OTS Typesetters 
flexible morning hours ability to work with computers required 
For more information, contact Angie Bellanca at 239-5303 
Thursday, March 16, 1989 
Special to The Observer 

The following is provided as general information to the Notre Dame community as required by the Environ­mental Protection Agency. 
As part of the National Primary Drinking Water Regulations, the University, as a water supplier, is re­quired to monitor the drink­ing water for volatile or­ganic compounds (VOC's) and to make the results of any monitoring or analysis available to water users. 
The University has com­pleted its current monitor­ing requirements and is pleased to report that no reg­ulated or non-regulated chemical was detected in the water. 
If any water user would like to review the results or discuss the monitoring in greater detail you may call Mike .McCauslin, Depart­ment of Risk Management and Safety at 239-5037. 
SAINT LOUIS UNIVERSITY 
SUMMER SESSIONS 1·9·8·9 



Howto getthro 
collegewith moneyto spare: 


2. Add aperipheral. 

3. Get anice,fat check. 
Now through March 31, when you buy selected Macintosh®SE or Macintosh II computers, you'll get a rebate for up to half the suggested retail price of the Applell!l peripherals you add on-so you'll save up to $800. Ask for details today where computers are sold on campus. 
ti® Apple Pays Half 
Notre Dame Computer Store Computer Center/Math Building 
01989 Apple Compuler, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are regis/emf trademarlts ofApple Compuler. Inc. Certain rr!SiridloiiS apply AU ll!bales subject to sJricl rompliance wilhthe Terms and Cmulilionsofthe 'ilpple ~Half' Ftvgram Guidelines, awilablejomyourauJharizedApple reseiJer Offer mid u'here prohibiJIXI ~·/au: 
,-~~-----~----------~------~~------------------------------~------~----~--.---------~ 
Thursday, March 16, 1989 The Observer page 5 
Bayh named as defendant in teen jail cell death suit 
Associated Press 
NEW ALBANY, Ind.-Gov. Evan Bayh was among 32 defendants named Wednesday in a $17.2 million federal law­suit stemming from the death of a Seymour, Ind. teen-ager in a police holding cell. 
Jonathon Reese Mitchell, 17, died of hanging in a holding cell at the Seymour police 

headquarters a few hours after 
being arrested Feb. 4 at a local 
arcade. 
The suit seeks an injunction 
preventing the city of Seymour 
and Jackson County from 
housing juveniles in jail until 
the conclusion of the lawsuit. It 
also asks the court to require 
the city and county to rectify 
what are referred to as uncon­
stitutional conditions at the 
jail, such as jailing juveniles 
with adult offenders. 
The suit also alleges Mitchell 
was arrested for public in­toxication and resisting arrest without probable cause and ~ that the arresting Seymour police officer used unnecessary 
force. 
The suit was filed in U.S. Dis­
trict Court in New Albany by 
Jeffersonville attorneys Larry 
Wilder and David Mosley. 

I  $3.95 Value  I  
:  MINI-TIP DINNER  :  
I  Eat in or Carry Out  1  
I :  Valid only with coupon Expires 311 8-'89  II  
11132 South Bend Ave. (Formerly Lee's BBQ)  I  
I  232-R&77  I  

~----------~-----------· 
O'Meara calls for University to seek international prominence 
By KERRY SCANLON 
News Staff 
The St. Edward's Hall Forum featured Provost Timothy O'Meara respond­ing to the question "Should Notre Dame become the Princeton or the Harvard of the Midwest?" 
According to O'Meara, Notre Dame should not be viewed as a school of the midwest, or a Harvard or Princeton, but as a school known on the international level. 
According to O'Meara, during the first half of this century the University con­centrated on developing a good undergraduate pro­gram as well as attracting excellent students. The last half of this century there has been an increased focus in teaching and research, said O'Meara. O'Meara said that research is very important, because " .. .it is necessary to think beyond frontiers and influ­ence the society around you and the Church." 
According to O'Meara, in order to become a highly respected university, the' University must become stronger in the life of the mind and in the exchange of ideas. 
O'Meara also noted that Notre Dame must continue to emphasize Catholic values and to exchange ideas so thinking can grow. "Being distinctive will be what brings us forward and being a Catholic University will make that happen," he said. O'Meara said that this distinctiveness would be necessary to expand the mind and the thinking of the Church. 
The University and its stu­dents should increase their dimensions in international interests, according to O'Meara. This is necessary to provide an expanded in­terest and awareness of dif­ferent cultures. 
University President Fa­ther Edward Malloy and O'Meara have been actively involved with a planning board for a future university in Australia that will be modeled after Notre Dame, said O'Meara. 
O'Meara said he would also like to see an increase in the size of the MBA pro­gram and the graduate pro­gram as a whole, while keeping the undergraduate program at the same level. 
Terrorist claims responsibility for planting a· bomb in the U.S. Vincennes skipper's van 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO-A caller with a Middle Eastern accent told a radio station Wednesday that a group called Guardians of the Islamic Revolution was re­sponsible for the bombing of a van driven by the wife of the USS Vincennes' skipper. 
Los Angeles radio station KNX said the person made the claim during a call to the 
INTERESTED IN CULTURAL DIVERSITY? 
The Multicultural Executive Council is looking tor a few good people to become members of the council. Applications can be picked up now at the Student Activities Office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. Deadline to turn them in is March 29, 1989. Interviews will be held April 5-6. 
For additional 
information please do not hesitate to call: Mary Feliz (1311), Luis Canales (271-8904) or Rob Bartola (1159). 

newsroom Wednesday mor­ning. The caller claimed to be a member of the group, which also claimed responsibility for the crash of a Pan Am jetliner last year at Lockerbie, Scot­land. 
Station officials said the call was immediately reported to the FBI. 
According to KNX, the caller said the group threatened to carry out additional attacks against Vincennes skipper Capt. Will Rogers and his fam­ily. The caller also said the bombing was linked directly to last year's downing of an Iranian airliner by the Vin­cennes. 
Fred Reagan, an FBI spokes­man in Los Angeles, confirmed, that the bureau is investigating the call. 
"We're looking into it," Reagan said. He declined to elaborate. 
Guardians of the Islamic Revolution is an Islamic group that made persistent claims to international news organiza­tions that it was responsible for the crash of Pan Am Flight 107· last Dec. 21. 
presents this Friday Nite: 
BILLY "STIX" NICKS AND THE N'S AND OUTS 

An extra-special treat for St. Patrick's Day! This incredible Motown band has met with rave reviews at Senior ..Bar-Come see why Friday Nite at Theodore's! 
------~ .....~~ 

page 6 The Observer Thursday, March 16, 1989 

~Specials all night including: Corn beef on rye & Irish potato soup $1.99 
~A limit~d ~ditio~ collec~or's mug ho~oring St. Patrick's Day and our F1ght1ng lnsh Nat1onal Champions. 17 oz. $1.25 filled. 
Come dressed as a Leprechaun and receive a free special meal. 
University Center, Grape Road 277-7273 
~ ®®ffJrnlli~ 0 

is celebrating St. Patrick's Day 8 the NCAA 7ourney
FRIDAY·SATDRDAY-SUNDIY starting at noon! 
~PECIALS all night including: Corn beef &cabbage dinner, Irish soup $3.95 
[Hl@~[p) (ill@ ©@~@[Q)[j@~@ @(UJ[j 
~ ®~ @[JiJ[JiJOlJ®~ ®~c [F)tffi~[io©[k\!i® [Q)®W [F)®UirW 
@[JiJ@J w®~©[M) ~[h)® [p)~®Wc©W ~®[fiJi)®® 
@[JiJ @[JiJ@ @~ @(\Jl[j ® ~@[j~@c@@[j@@[JiJ UcV!c@~ 
2046 South Bend Ave between Edison and Ironwood 277-7678 
Thursday, March 16, 1989 The Observer page 7 
Gorbachev works to stop Soviet food shortages 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW-President Mikhail 
S. Gorbachev called on the Communist Party Wednesday to take urgent steps to ease chronic food shortages--the So­viet Union's "biggest wound" --but he indicated the problem would exist for years. 
The party's policy-making Central Committee began a two-day meeting largely devoted to agricultural reform, including a search for ways to increase the food supply and improve traditionally dreary rural life. 
The 58-year-old Kremlin leader, himself the son of a southern Russian peasant, said conditions in some regions of the countryside were at a "critical level," with mass migration of their population to cities. 
Productivity on Soviet farms is so low, he said, the Soviet Union still must go abroad to buy "large quantites of grain, meat, fruits, vegetables, sugar, vegetable oil and some other staples" to meet domes­tic demand. 
Gorbachev, once the party's overseer for agriculture, called for "an agrarian policy that will be able to restore the peasant as the master on the land, and dependably solve the food problem." 
"Further delay in this matter 2,250 representatives in the new Congress of People's Deputies. 
Despite the publicity touting this campaign as the Soviet Union's first multicandidate election, the Communist Party chose to nominate just 100 people for its 100 seats. Party members had suggested more than 31,000 names. 
The deputies elected by the party in a secret ballot include most members of the 12-man ruling Politburo, 26 workers and seven collective farmers, the official Tass news agency reported. 
The food problem is likely to produce far more discussion at the Central Committee plenum, since the party's con­servative agriculture chief, YegorK. Ligachev, apparently disagrees with Gorbachev on a solution. 
In recent appearances, Ligachev has skipped lightly over Gorbachev's plan to lease state-owned fields to farmers, making them "masters of the land" and providing an incen­tive to produce more. 
Instead, Ligachev has em­
ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iiiiipioiw~e~r~t~o~ch~o~oisie~on~e~-~th~ir~d~o~f~th~e~ pA~~;e fMmffig ­

continued from page 1 
of the policies," Agee said of publishing the names. 
Agee dispelled accusations that he endangered lives by publishing the names as "repeated attempts by the CIA to discredit me." 
Agee lived as a virtual out­cast after he published "Inside the Company." He was the ob­ject of media scorn as well as CIA surveillance, he said. 
"George Will called me a 'soiled bit of flotsam from the 60's' and (then-director of the CIA George) Bush tried to have me imprisoned in the 70's," he said. 
Agee's lastest book, "On the 
Run" is his memoir of the 
years following the publishing 
of "Inside the Company." 
After the lecture, Agee said 
he waited 12 years before 
leaving the CIA "partly be­
cause I came to this Univer· 
sity." 
"Clinical Medic;al Ethics: A Review of the First Decade" 
MARK SIEGLER, M.D., F.A.C.P. 
Director, Center for Clinical Medical Ethics University of Chicago -Pritzker School of Medicine 
Auditorium Center for Continuing Education Friday, March 17, 1989 4:15-5:30 p.m. 
Mark Siegler, M.D., F.A.C.P., is professor of medicine, the University of Chicago. Dr. Siegler, director of the Center for Clinical Medical Ethics at the University of Chicago-Pritzker School of Medicine and fellow of the Hastings Center, has written numerous books and articles on ethical issues and serves as a consultant on ethical issues to the American College of Physicians, the American Hospital Association, and on occasion to the National Institute of Health. 
the traditional system that has left consumers standing in line for meat and vegetables. 
Tass, reporting on the first day of the plenum, said Gor­bachev called the country's continued food shortages, which necessitate the rationing of meat, sugar and other staples in many regions, "our society's biggest wound." 
Tass did not immediately provide a detailed account of Gorbachev's remarks on the new measures being con­templated in agriculture, but its initial report indicated the Kremlin leader was resigned to ongoing food shortages in the next several years. 
No one has proposed allowing farmers to own outright the land they till, or the breakup of the giant collective and state farms that have been the back­bone of Soviet agriculture since the days of Stalin. 
Gorbachev told the Central Committee collective and state farms have "huge poten­tialities" that can be exploited with the right management techniques. 
"Here at Notre Dame, country sits next to God in the motto. When I graduated, I was blindly patriotic, a conform­ist." 
''There is a schizophrenia here," he added. "Notre Dame has an Institute for Peace Studies, yet they give an honorary degree to a President 
who  is  in  charge  of  death  
squads  in  El  Salvador,"  he  
said.  

"I came out of this Univer­sity with no political experi­ence. We didn't have speakers like me here in my time. The speakers then were very patriotic, as was the Catholic teaching I grew up on," Agee said. 
Agee urged students to press University officials to prevent the CIA from recruiting at Notre Dame. 
"You may think that there is nothing you can do, but active opposition to the CIA's crimes can be successful," he said. 
Spy 
continued from page 1 
elimination of the short-range nuclear missiles. 
Van Gundy, 42, of Marina, Calif., had served in Moscow nearly two years, the normal diplomatic tour. 
SUMMER CAMP 

POSITIONS Counselors: 21 +, coed, sleepaway camp, Mass. Berkshires. WSI, arts & crafts, tennis, all land and water sports, drama, gymnastics, piano/play for shows, judo, dance, photography, computers, natlKe, wilderness, model rocketry, guitar, yearbook, woodworking, RN, typist, 
Write: Camp Emerson, 
5 Brassie Rd, 
Eastchester, NY 10707 
or call914/779-9406 


Happy Birthday 
Danny Mitchell! 
We love You, 
Mom, Dad, Pete, Sean 
Becky, Maura, Eddie, 
Ryan, Roberta, 
Sylvester, and the bird 
from hell. 
pwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww• is simply inadmissible," he 
said. 

Among the measures en­dorsed by Gorbachev was an "extensive transition to leasing," or allowing work col­lectives and individuals to work state-owned farmland in exchange for a fee. He also said "more flexible prices" for crops purchased by the state would go into effect Jan.1, 1990. 
Before Gorbachev spoke on farm policy, the 300-member Central Committee moved to elect its top leaders, including Gorbachev, to the new parlia­ment. 
The Communist Party is one of 30 organizations with the 
page 8 The Observer Thursday, March 16, 1989 
Report gives figures on life expectancy of Americans 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-White Americans, benefitting from dramatic declines across the population in heart disease and strokes, are living longer than ever. But black Americans, in­creasingly the victims of homicide and AIDS, are seeing their life expectancy fall fur­ther. 
That is the picture painted by the latest tally of the nation's 
SECURITY BEAT 
Wed., Mar. 1 
2:40 p.m. Two off campus tudents reported the theft of a watch, valued at $35, and $88 in cash from out­side a racquetball court in the JACC around 2:15 p.m.. 
10:20 p.m. A resident of Holy Cross reported the theft of his bookbag and contents from the bookrack in the lobby of South Dining Hall sometime between noon and 12:20 
p.m.. L>sses estimated at $105. 
Thu., Mar. 2 
10:45 a.m. A Morrissey Hall resi­dent reported the theft of his back­pack and contents from the bookrack in the lobby of South Dining Hall sometime between 
9:45 and 9:55 am.. L>sses estimated at$30. 
1:15 p.m. A resident of Pasquerilla West reported the larceny of her gold necklace from her desk in her unsecured dorm room sometime between 6:30 a.m. and 12:45 p.m.. Value of necklace is estimated at $400. 
11 p.m. A Stanford Hall resident reported the theft of $50 in cash from his unsecured dorm room sometime between 10 a.m. and 10:55 p.m. 
Fri., Mar. 3 
3:30 a.m. A Law student reported the vandalism to a basement win­dow of the Law Building sometime 

health, released Wednesday. And there's more: 
• 
Blacks are twice as likely to die in infancy as whites. 

• 
Pregnant black women receive early prenatal care far less than whites. 

• 
Blacks are dispropor­tionately afflicted with in­fluenza and pneumonia. 


Health Secretary Louis Sul­livan said the report showed-­as the statistics have since 1970--''that there is a disparity 
between 12:20 a.m. and 3:30 a.m.. Damage estimates are unknown. 
6:30 p.m. A resident of Dillon Hall reported the vandalism done to his vehicle while parked in D 1 lot sometime between 3/1 and 3/3. Approx. $50 worth of damage was done to the driver's sideview mirror. 
6 p.m. A Notre Dame Security of­ficer confiscated a hang tag park­ing detail at the Main Gate that was illegally obtained bv a student. 
Wed., Mar. 8 
10:32 a.m. An employee at the Fa­tima Retreat Center reported that an unknown suspect(s) ripped out the wiring to the phone system and stole a calculator, valued at $80 and six VHS video tapes from the re­
ceptionist's desk. This incident oc­curred sometime between 6:10 and 6:50p.m. on 3/7. Cost of damages is 
Thu., Mar. 10 
12:15 p.m. A Notre Dame employee reported the theft of her unsecured bike from the bike rack at the Res­burgh Library around 12 p.m.. Bike is valued at $100. 
Fri., Mar 11 
12:30 a.m. A South Bend resident was issued a citation by Notre Dame Security Police for traveling 50 m.p.h in a 25 m.p.h. zone on Ju­niper road. 
8:56 a.m. The rector of Ca­vanaugh Hall reported that an 
pROB'-':-~·..tud:::!~~~~h~ 
-tudent and . Chicago· ~s k what
Darne s . ort 1n -c ter brea ,
~Notre O'flare ~1rP inute of pas et frorn to catch at n}oY everY rn \a theY use to g both want to eportation shou ode of trans O'flare1 . 1 ~irport 
rn h Bend to Reg1ona
Sout M.ichiana 
a) car {light{rorn
router 
b) corn L" o

c)United unU"{\QN;_ SOL ,cle-'1' ,..,ke 
-k" gcharge
.1 nar 1n 
t \\s anu "' t answer· lution,
CitY tratf1c, o an incorrec be a good so .1 could 
\. by car ern to h Benu 
trave 1ng "\ "b" rnaY se \ in Sout 
~nd wh1 e kind of de aY worse yet, a 's b that anY O'flare· Or, we\\, \et rernern ~r .ng {lights a~ d could rnean· •. n rn1ss1 S th pen 
1

rnea . n in ou . htrnare· , Not on y
cance\\aUO \a be a n1g atulations· orta• 
it cou " " congr .1 { transP 
just saY nswered c, \"able rnoue of and the 
lf you a ost re 1 \ est are 
. aLitnO the tn {{ers the oW . t {or the is tJn1teO'flare, it also oturel arrival po1nlts in no tion tO enient (\ep~r C'rc\e• 'fhis resU ' 
rnost conv h ND M.a1~ 1 f the students tudents • t e . rni:r.auon o 

s d rna'll1
hassles an 
en}"o"rnent·
' 

Why learn this lesson the hard way? H you need to get to O'Hare, 
count on UNITED LIMO. We'll get you there. Call674-6993 for schedule and reservations. "' Or call your travel agent. 
United Limo 
We'll Get You There 
IMPORTANT: Due to limited !ieating, we request that you make reservations at lca!it Z4 hours in advance. 
between the health of our white and black populations." 
Dr. Manning Feinleib, direc­tor of the National Center for Health Statistics, told reporters that the basic causes for blacks' declining life expec­tancy relate to "nutrition, poverty (and) access to (health) care" that affect "a wide variety of conditions from infant mortality to mortality at later ages." 
One otper likely cause Fein­
· ­
unknown suspect(s) had broken into a vending machine in the recreation room of the dorm and removed any money from it. This incident occurred sometime be­tween 3/3 and 3/11. 
Mon., Mar. 14 
8:56p.m. Notre Dame security is­sued a citation to a Notre Dame student for traveling 44 m.p.h. in a posted 25 m.p.h. zone on Juniper road. 
11:23 a.m. A resident of Siegfried Hall reported that two non-student women were illegally selling magazine subscriptions in the dorm. 
leib mentioned: drug-related murders. 
Buttressing that assessment, the death rate among black men, frequently the victims of drug-related violence, was 50 percent higher than for white men in 1986, the last year for which comprehensive statis­tics were available_ 
In all, the report, "Health, United States," painted this statistical picture for 1986: 
-A child born that year could groups. 
-Ih-e-Obse.~~or__ 
--------.L~Y=-'-' --­is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Controller 
must be a junior accounting major 
For more information, call Rich Iannelli at 239-7471 
expect to live 74.8 years, up from 74.7 years in 1985. 
-A white child had a life ex­pectancy of 75.4 years in 1986, up from 75.3. 

-But a black child born that year could expect to die at just 
69.4 years, down from 69.5 in 1985 and 69.7 in 1984. 
Life expectancies were not calculated for other population 
ANDERSEN CONSULTING 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO. 
We are looking for intelligent, ambitious Notre Dame juniors who desire challenge, love to learn, and have a need for variety. 
We invite you to sign up for a summer internship interview in our Chicago Consulting Group. 
• 
Math/C.S. 

• 
MIS 

• 
CAPP 

• 
Engi~eers with programming expenence 

• 
Students interested in working in Chicago after graduation 


Interviews to be held on March 30, 1989. 
See the Placement Office for details. 
~--~ ~~ --------­
The Observer page 9 
Apple Commission· to spend $ 1.7 million on advertising 

Associated Press 
YAKIMA, Wash.-The Wash­ington Apple Commission voted unanimously Wednesday to spend nearly $1.7 million for advertising to reassure consu­mers that apples are safe, despite nationwide concerns over Alar use. 
The commission, which represents growers of the na­tion's largest apple crop, voted to take $1 million in emergency funds and borrow the rest from banks to purchase advertising in major markets around the country. 
Concerns over the suspected carcinogen showed little sign of abating as Eddie Albert and other Hollywood entertainers held a news conference to urge mothers to demand that their grocers carry chemical-free warned the apple commission to be careful about the content of its advertising. 
"We assume they are not going to be impugning our in­tegrity," said Paul Allen, a spokesman for the non-profit Washington, D.C.-based environmental . group. "That would be a great mistake on their part." 
The goal of the NRDC report is not to hurt farmers, but to change the policies of the U.S. environmental Protection Agency and make it easier to ban certain chemicals, Allen said. 
Apple commission spokes­woman Vicky Scharlau said the advertising, to begin later this month, will seek only to reas­sure consumers that apples are safe and that the present sys­tem regulating chemicals is ef­fective. 
growers at the commission meeting. 
The NRDC report, released in late February, contends that eating Alar-treated apples in­creases the cancer risk in children. The report has been attacked as alarmist by the federal Environmental Protec­tion Agency and the findings have been disputed by some scientists and the apple indus­try. 
But public fears have led school districts across the country, including those in New York, Los Angeles and Chicago, to ban apples and ap­ple products from cafeterias. 
Alar is the marketing name for daminozide, which is manufactured by Uniroyal Chemical Co. The industry con­tends only about 5 percent of the crop is sprayed with the growth regulator, which keeps 
f~====================:::~ produce.The Natural Resources "This isn't a war between the apples on the tree longer and Defense Council, whose recent apple industry and the NRDC," thus improves color and firm­report touched off the furor, she told a packed house of ness in red varieties .
-Ih-e-O~bse~~~or__ 
-------.&.-=:Y=-'------~ is currently accepting applications for the 
Mrs. Bush plans trip around dog's delivery 
following positions: 
Associated Press Millie is expected to give birth Gov. Evan Bayh is planning to in about four days, and Mrs. visit Fort Wayne to campaignFORT WAYNE, Ind.-Bar­Bush is reluctant to be gone for Long.
Accounts Payable Manager 
bara Bush will visit Fort from Washington then, Holt said he was reluctant to 
Accounts Receivable Manager 
Wayne on Friday if her admninistration officials said. discuss other options for Mrs. schedule permits so she can Aides to Republican can­Bush's itinerary because if
Payroll Manager 
campaign for 4th District con­didate Heath have submitted they were not approved or the
Purchasing Manager 
gressional candidate Dan ideas for Mrs. Bush's visit to trip fell through, "people would Heath, the White House press Fort Wayne, including lunch at be disappointed." office said. a senior citizens center. Confirmation of Mrs. Bush's
For more information, call Rich Iannelli 
However, the due date for However, no details have been trip will be released Thursday at 239-7471 
Millie, the Bushes' dog, could approved, said Terry Holt, morning, a press aide said. pose a problem to the visit. Heath's campaign manager. Heath is opposed by Demo­Clayton Yeutter, secretary of crat Jill Long to fill the seat agriculture, also is scheduled vacated by Dan Coats when he to visit Fort Wayne on Heath's
ATTENTION STUDENTS!! ATTENTION STUDENTS!! 
assumed Vice President Dan behalf. Holt said meetings with Quayle's old Senate seat. farmers will be arranged for
NOTRE DAME'S 
Friday also is the day that Yeutter's visit Tuesday. 
DEVELOPMENT PHONE CENTER NOW HIRING FOR ~UMMER '89 40-50 Student Positions Available Starting May 22 through August 18 $4.50 Per Hour 
is currently accepting applications for the Flexible evening hours: 6: 00-10:30; Some daytime hours 
f<1llowing position: 
All interested are invited to an informal 
News Editor
Open House1nformation Session at the Development Phone Center Sunday March 19, from 1:OOpm-2:OOpm 
A resume and a two-page personal statement
PLEASE JOIN US 
is due to Matt Gallagher by 3 p.m. 
For more information, call 
on Tuesday, March 21. Carol McClory 239-7938 or Mike Brach 239-7241 
Call239-5303 or 283-1957 for information. 

: Entirely possible: 
• Indiana University at Kokomo • offers summer courses in 20
•
• different areas with the 

Give us a call and we'll mail a 
• advantages of Big Ten learning in a small class environment, low pressure, and individualized attention. 
registration form and summer 
schedule to your campus or 
home address. 
SUMMER SESSION I 
Indiana : 
•
•
•
•

University •
•
•
•
•
•

at •
•
•
•
•
•

Kokomo 
•
• 

Indiana University at Kokomo •
May 8-June 22 
2300 South Washington :
SUMMER SESSION II 
Kokomo, Indiana 46904 •
June 26-August 10 
(317) 453-2000 :
....................................................................... 
Viewpoint
page 10 Thursday, March 16, 1989 
-----~-­

~-------------.------~---------------------------------------------­
Blatant injustices in Northern Ireland 
Having grown up in Belfast, Northern Ireland most of my life, and having ex­perienced first-hand what it is like to live in a country that is a garrison for a foreign army, I ask you, the Irish­American community here at Notre Dame--that before you go out to celebrate your Irish heritage, before you talk about the "Luck of the Irish" and sing "Irish Eyes are Smiling," stop for just a few minutes to reflect upon the situation in Northern Ireland, for there, many Irish eyes are not smiling. 
What is occurring in Northern Ireland is an issue of grave human, le­gal and civil rights violations. However, to discuss and to voice dis­content about the injustice occurring on a daily basis in Northern Ireland has never been a popular "cause" in America. 
Maura O'Siochain 
guest column 
It is "popular" for Americans to protest loudly against injustices in other countries: Nicaragua, South Africa, and now finally Palestine; However, the estimated 42 million Americans of Irish descent remain silent about the injustices occurring in their ancestoral homeland. This left me bewildered for years until I began to analyze carefully the force behind the silence. 
Mter questioning Irish-Americans about this apathy, I often received answers such as, "It's too compl­icated;" or, "Oh, didn't the Civil Rights movements make you all pretty well off?" or, "I don't support violence." 
Mter more answers such as these, I slowly became aware of the grevious sham that has occurred in the States. Irish-Americans have swallowed and digested exactly what the British gov­ernment has fed them. This being the dreadful notion that if you vociferously condemn British injustices in the North of Ireland, you are simultaneously in­dicating your support for the Irish Re­publican Army. To speak up about your abhorrence of British injustices in the North of Ireland, in no shape or form means you are supporting violence, for you may very well also abhor violence. 
An Irish-American who lobbies for the MacBride Principles for Fair Em­ployment, (if you are a Catholic in Nor­thern Ireland you are almost three­times more likely to be unemployed than a Protestant) or lobbies for a world-wide end to the use of lethal plas­tic bullets, or the strip-searching of wo­men prisoners, is in no way supporting violence, as the British government has so skillfully led you to believe. You are merely advocating justice and human rights. 
Many people whom I speak with talk about the great progress of the Civil Rights Movement in Northern Ireland. In reality, over these last 20 years of so much suffering and so much sacrifice little has changed for the Catholic in Northern Ireland, and many things have worsened and continue to worsen for us. Catholics are provided with better housing and we do have more opportunity to obtain higher edu­cation; most importantly though we have re-developed a sense of pride and dignity that had been lost before the Civil Rights Movement. 
However, in the last 20 years we have lost just about every right to which any other citizen living in the "free world" is entitled. We have lost our right to demonstrate and to assemble without police approval, we have lost the right to a trial by jury, Nationalists have lost 
the right to the airwaves and television; 
most recently we have lost the right to 
remain silent during judicial 
procedures--any silence may be inter­
preted as an automatic admittance of 
guilt. In other words we are simultane­
ously not allowed to speak and not al­
lowed to remain silent. 
From a very early age growing up as a Catholic in Northern ireland, one quickly realizes that as long as your country remains divided and occupied, nothing will change. You will always and forever be treated as a second­class citizen in you own country. 
What does it mean to be a second­class citizen? Well it begins with the fact that an army that has invaded and plundered your country over 800 years ago, continues to march upon your streets. Spend one day in West Belfast or Derry City and you will quickly realize that the British presence in Nor­thern Ireland is not of a "neutral" or "peace-keeping" nature as the British government has skillfully manipulated most Americans into believing. The sol­diers' centuries-old hatred for the Irish is still quite evident. 
But the British Army doesn't have to carry out the burden of occupation and repression of the population all by it­self. It has the helping hand of the police force--the Royal Ulster Constabulary. This police force is the same police force that was responsible for the now infamous Burntollet Bridge incident in Derry, 1969. The RUC is now allegedly reformed and less sectarian (although its membership is still 91 percent Prot­estant) just like the British Army-­neutral. 
However, it quickly becomes evident that the RUC is no more neutral today than it was in Derry, 1969, for they have no reason to be. With the complete sup­port and collusion of the British gov­ernment and army, the RUC realizes they have "carte blanche" to do unto the Nationalist population whatever they choose. This includes carrying out a "shoot-to~kill" policy upon nationalists, vicious raids and van­dalism of their homes, forcibly strip searching and torturing detainees during interrogation sessions. 
Fortunately the British and RUC vi­olations haven't gone by without world­wide condemnations from human rights and legal organizations. However, Americans do not hear about them. Just about every leading nation in the world--the United States, France, Belgium, Sweden, etc.--has questioned British abuses in Northern Ireland, including this month the Arch­bishop of Canterbury. Americans don't hear of the numerous Amnesty Inter­national reports dealing with British human and legal rights violations, the fact that Britain has just been banished from the European Committee on Human Rights for their own human rights violations in Northern Ireland or the fact that in February alone the British government has been once again condemned in a report on turture by the U.N. commission on Human Rights in Geneva; and in a U.S. State Department study. Both reports deal with "the level of assault and other im­proper practices" inflicted upon detainees in British custody. 
If the Archbishop of Canterbury can condemn British injustices in the Nor­thern Ireland legal system, then cer­tainly you as Irish-Americans should be ready to mobilize and speak out for the people in Northern Ireland who are forced to live under a system of cop­stant oppression and injustice. 
It is obvious that a United Irish­American outcry and condemnation of the human, legal, and civil rights vio­lations occurring in Northern Ireland presents a grave danger to the nature and stability of British rule in Northern Ireland. Why else are so many British resources poured into America to cover up the grim realities of life for Catholics in Northern Ireland. Thus far their ef­fort has succeeded completely: they are the victory--justice and truth are the losers. 
Almost all 42 million of you Irish­Americans are silent. Isn't it time for a change? 
Maura O'Siochain is a graduate student in economics. 
A curious look at American affairs 
Thomas Daugherty's article, "America Under Scrutiny," in the February issue of Common· Sense enthralled me and prompted many questions in my own mind: 
Andrea Burman 

guest column 
Who runs America? The White House? Wall Street? The Senate? Is there such a thing as balance of powers? Will John Tower drink again? Does Ted Bundy's death make the world a better, happier place to be? What did it prove? Is the death penalty the cure-all for the crime problem? Will Manson ever get paroled? 
Can one safely say that one person is more human than another? Does being ex-utero make one more deserving of human rights than one in utero? ·can one be pro-abortion and anti-war with­out being a hypocrite? Can one be anti­abortion and pro-war without being a lJ.ypocrite? When does life begin? Is the fetus a human being? If not, what is it? 
A tadpole? A plant? 

Does anarchy necessarily entail chaos? Does it entail a new govern­ment? Do humans need to be governed? Is originality a thing of the past? Why does America hate its children? Why are high schools like zoos? Does anybody really care? Why are Ameri­can children so ignorant? Why are they not challenged? 
Where's my MTV? Where's the beef? What really killed Lord Byron? When will the insanity of war stop? Is war glorious or glorified? Who is our enemy? Is Khomeini dead yet? What is sex education? What is safe sex? Is sex dangerous? Do we really care? 
Are humans only out for themselves? Could Donald Trump lend me ten bucks? Are Americans voyeurs? Are we really free? Does technology rule our lives? Can we improve on Maxi­mum Strength Anacin? What is a "recovering Catholic?" Is he a sick Catholic or sick of being Catholic? 
Is homosexuality a choice? A realiza­tion? What's in style? Is saving baby seals more important than saving baby humans? Why are humans so con­temptuous of each other? Why are we so fickle? Is pregnancy ever con­venient? Will it snow on Graduation Day? What is Velveeta? 
Is greed good? Can eternity be im­agined? Can you live with yourself that long? Where has activism gone? Why is every one wearing bomber jackets around here? Must we always follow the leader? Why does history repeat it­self? Are humans that predictable? Do dogs have an afterlife? Is communism evil? Is capitalism evil? Do you know the way to San Jose? 
Should CIA stand for Criminally In­sane Androids? Is there such a thing as silence? Will there be a sequel to "War and Remembrance"? Is there any excuse for Jackie Collins? What's wrong with being a Catholic? Is there such a thing as a liberal Republican? 
Why do people stare at road acci­dents? Is there a doctor in the house? Why are people willing to drive for miles to work for money to drive for miles to work for money to drive for miles? Are there any hermits left? Does anybody care? Is anybody out there? 
Did anybody really like Walter Mon­dale? Why does the government spend so much of our money on weapons which could annihilate the planet to preserve freedom while so many Americans are without food or shelter and are enslaved by poverty? Is your back yard too good for the homeless? Could you spare 20 bucks so a homeless family can eat for a day? Do you really care? 
Andrea Burman is a senior English major. 

Editorial Board Operations Board 
Business Manager.... . .......... Rich Iannelli
Editor-in-Chief .................................... Chris Donnelly
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 Advertising Manager .............................. Molly Killen
Managing Editor....................... . .... Regis Coccia Exec. News Editor ...................... Matthew Gallagher 
Advertising Design Manager ......... Shannon Roach Viewpoint Editor............................ .. .. Dave Bruner 
Production Manager ............................ Alison Cocks The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Sports Editor ....................................... Theresa Kelly 
Systems Manager .............................. Mark Derwent OTS Director ................................... Angela Bellanca
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the pol1c1es of Accent Editor ........................................... John Blasi 
the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as Photo Editor ............................................. Eric Bailey 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. 
Commentaries, letters and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column 
space is available to all members of the community and the free express1on of vary1ng Founded November 3,1966 
opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. , 
~ ~ ~~-~~~ 

Time 9:37 p.m. EST 


TV & Radio 

Providence Civic Center
Tickets 

Providence, R.I. AP Rankings Both teams unranked 
Vanderbilt leads the series
Series 

2-1 over Notre Dame Vanderbilt 75, Notre Dame 66
Last Meeting 
at Notre Dame 
Co-captain Fredrick leads Irish by example 
Junior guard tries to return to lineup after ankle injury 
By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 
Joe Fredrick, to be sure, is one of the more confident indi­viduals you're likely to come upon. 
Some call him overconfident, even cocky. 
But when you are a junior, suddenly thrust into the na­tional limelight, called upon to co-captain a team with no seniors after starting only half of the previous season under David Rivers' shadow, confi­dence becomes a prerequisite. 
Fredrick absolutely oozes the stuff. 
On an ankle injury that kept him out of the DePaul game and possibly the Vanderbilt game Friday night: "There's no way I want to miss the op~ portunity to play in the NCAA's this year, especially after how horrible I played (in) last year('s tournament). I was on crutches Monday, taking jump shots and free throws (Tuesday), and I may run some (Wednesday). Believe me, if there's any way I can play, I will. I'm a day ahead of schedule, and our game's not until late Friday, so that will help." 
On a possible second round matchup with Georgetown in the NCAA tournament: "Not that I'm looking past Vander­bilt, but I can't wait to play Georgetown. I really, really want to face Georgetown's defense and have (Hoya star guard) Charles Smith guard me. That's where you find out how good you really are." 
On the difference between this year and last: "I think last year I took some people by surprise, like when we played at Duke (a '70-61 loss in which Fredrick scored a then-career high 23 points). But everyone was out to stop David (Rivers). This year, I know that everyone is out to stop me. That's the kind of thing that drives me." 
But after attempting only 26 field goals in his freshman year, Fredrick had a choice-­change his attitude or drive himself crazy. 
"I always felt I could play," said the Cincinnati native, who led the Irish during the regular season with a 16.6 points per game average. "But you can only believe in yourself for so long. Freshman year it was ba­sically just sit there, sit there, sit there. 
"But after a while I just figured that playing against Rivers in practice every day would eventually have to im­prove my own game enough so that some day I'd get my chance." 
Fredrick gives the Los An­geles Lakers rookie much of the credit for his success, not only on the basketball court but in the interview room and beyond the sports sphere. 
"My opportunity to practice and play against David during my freshman and sophomore years was the biggest asset I could have asked for," said Fredrick who, along with Jamere Jackson, were Notre Dame's first junior co-captains since Tim Kempton and Jim Dolan in 1984-85. 
"I always watched the way he did everything. At inter­views he spread the praise around, in practice there was never a day where he sluffed off, when he got hurt he rehabilitated faster than everyone expected, he always got the proper rest before games, always ate breakfast to start the day... Coach (Digger) Phelps was right when he called him one in a million." 
Co-captain status did not severely alter Fredrick's relationships with teammates, another tactic he picked up from his predecessor, Rivers. 
"David led by example," said Fredrick, "and that's the way Jamere and I try to do it, 
J.J. even more than I. We don't feel the need to get all rah-rah with the guys on the team. Every now and then we'll get on somebody we feel could do a little more, but we're close­knit, and the team understands that yelling and screaming just isn't the way we are." 
It's been an up and down year for both Fredrick and the Irish, and certain games during the 
ESPN WSBT, South Bend Mutual Radio Network 

The uoserver 1 Mike MOran 

Irish CC)-capltan and team MVP Joe Fredrick has average. He Is currently battling an ankle Injury led the Irish by example this season, leading the that kept him out of Notre Dame's final regular team in scoring with a 16.6 points per game season contest against DePaul. 
regular season stick out as per­sonal highs and lows. 
"Personally, going to Dayton. and finally playing well in front of my neighbors and relatives (20 points and several key bas­kets) was my high point," said Fredrick, who scored in double figures in 23 of his 27 games this season. "As a team, al­though we didn't realize it at the time, I think beating In­diana was probably our high­light. It was also a lot of fun for me to play against Jay Ed­wards. He's a heck of a player. 
"Obviously, the Valparaiso game is the one that sticks out in my mind as the disaster of the year, even more in my case because I had a chance to ice the game with free throws late. The DePaul game (which the Irish lost 73-70 without Fredrick) can be seen in a couple of ways. Sure, we lost 
our final game, but the team showed they can play without the court can only help. We're me and with LaPhonso (Ellis) not selfish--when LaPhonso in a lot of pain. The fact that gets talked about all the time, Daimon (Sweet) and Elmer we're happy for him, because (Bennett) stepped to the fore that can only help. If J.J. shows that we might be (Jackson) gets 25 one night, the heading in the right direction." rest of the guys aren't like, 'Oh, 
Fredrick sees junior Keith I've got to have a better night Robinson as the key to Irish than that next time'. ­NCAA hopes both this year and "We have the potential to be next. an Arizona-type team next 
"No doubt about it, we're year, with a nice blend of going to have to scrap for every seniors and youth. Yeah, it win in the tourney," said should be fun." Fredrick. "But the bottom line One reason Fredrick is that Keith Robinson is our believes in his team's chances key player, even though he is because he be!Teves in his very seldom gets publicity. team's coach. The junior backs When he plays well, the team up Phelps, whom Fredrick plays well, and if I do play on says receives a lot of undue Friday one of my main con-criticism. cerns is going to be getting "If you're not constantly part Keith off to a good start. of the basketball program 
"Next year should be a lot of here," said Fredrick, "in my fun. Everybody, including mind you don't have any right Keith, will be back and the fact see FREDRICK page 3 that we're all good friends off ' 

page 2 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Associate Sports Editor 
PROVIDENCE, R.I.--In each of the past two seasons, the Notre Dame basketball team has lost to a Vanderbilt squad led by 7-foot center Will Perdue. 
The ninth-seeded Irish won't have to worry about Perdue, now with the NBA's Chicago Bulls, when they face Vandy again Friday night in the first round of the NCAA tourna­ment's East Regional. 
Instead, the eighth-seeded Commodores look to a guard who makes a practice of hitting gamewinning shots from the most improbable places and a coach whose career will end upon Vanderbilt's next loss. 
ESPN will televise the game nationally and WSBT-TV ( Channel22) locally, with tipoff set for 9:37 p.m. at the Provi­dence Civic Center. The winner will face the survivor of Friday's Georgetown­Princeton contest Sunday. 
"They're a very, very good basketball team that obviously we won't take lightly, espe­cially since they beat YS the last two times we've played," Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps said of his team's first­round opponent. "If that's not enough to get us ready to play, then we'll have our hands full." 
About Vanderbilt 

Vanderbilt (19-13) lost five of its first seven games this season while playing the likes 

Barry Booker (F) Vanderbilt 

Booker is the SEC career record holder in three-point attempts (535) and connections (245). Booker has shot .450 from long range this season. 
of Michigan, Louisville and North Carolina. The Com­modores rebounded to win 15 of their next 20 before a late­season slump and finished tied for second in the Southeastern Conference. 
"Their record's deceiving," said Phelps. "They played a lot of powerhouses early in the year and they came on strong in conference play." 
Last-second shots by Barry Goheen have decided no less than three of Vanderbilt's vic­tories this season. The 6-3 senior guard sunk a three­pointer from halfcourt at the buzzer to beat Louisville, made three-pointers at the end of the half and game (one on a shot well behind halfcourt) in a one­point win over Georgia and also hit a gamewinner against Mis­sissippi. 
Buzzerbeating shots are nothing new to the Calvert City, Ky., resident. Goheen has six gamewinning shots in his Van­derbilt career and nailed two three-pointers in the final five seconds to send the Pitt game into overtime in last season's NCAA tournament. Vandy eventually won that game 80-74 to reach the Sweet Sixteen. 
"He just tnakes a lot of things happen for them," said Phelps. "You can't put Vanderbilt away; you have to be con­cerned even up to the last­second shot because they're so good shooting threes." 
Barry Booker and Derrick Wilcox also have had success with the three-point shot. 
Booker, a 6-4 senior guard, 
C.M. Newton (Coach) Vanderbilt 

This season's SEC Coach of the Year, Newton earned his SOOth career victory this season. 
Irish Extra 
earned his nickname of "The 
Long Ranger" by setting SEC 
career records for three-point 
shots made (245) and at­
tempted (535). He is shooting 
86-of-191 from beyond the stripe 
this season and averages 14.6 
points per game. 
Wilcox, a 5-11 point guard, 
has shot 33-of-91 from three­
point range in averaging 8.5 
points per game. The junior 
also recorded 169 assists to 
break Vanderbilt's single­
season record. 
"They have a lot of confi­dence shooting the threes," said Phelps. "Booker does very well in getting open to shoot, .and so does Wilcox, who's very deceptive shooting the threes." 
Vandy's frontline players in­clude 6-9 senior center Frank Kornet and 6-8 junior forward Eric Reid. Kornet moved from power forward this season and leads the Commodores with 7.2 rebounds and 16.8 points per game this season, including an 
18.7 scoring average over the last 15 games. 
Reid also scores in double fig­ures with 10.3 points and 6.0 rebounds per game. Steve Grant, Charles Mayes, Todd Milholland and Morgan Wheat add depth up front. 
With Perdue on the bench with foul trouble in last season's game at Notre Dame, Kornet's 17 points led the Com­modores to a 75-66 victory. Vandy also defeated Notre Dame 60-56 two years ago at Nashville, Tenn. 
C.M. Newton has coached Vanderbilt for the last eight years and has led the team to consecutive NCAA tournament appearances for the first time in school history. Newton coached for 12 years each at Transylvania and Alabama before coming to Vanderbilt. "C.M. Newton is one of the class guys in the business," said Phelps. "He's nothing but a gentleman and a close friend of mine." Newton's 509-374 career record ranks him 11th among active coaches in career wins, and he was named SEC Coach of the Year for the sixth time this year. He will leave Vandy at the end of the season to return to his alma mater and take care of a beleagured Ken­
tucky program as athletic director. 
About Notre Dame 

Phelps' biggest concern about his team heading into the tournament is the condition of guard Joe Fredrick. The junior co-captain sprained his ankle last Friday and missed Satur­day's 73-70 loss at DePaul. 
"It's obvious that we need Joe Fredrick healthy," said 

···.'f/.:
··•,jill'•· 
,~,~1«1::~~:~.: :. ~~ 

Pete Carrll (Coach) Princeton 

Princeton coaching great Carril has been at the helm for the Tigers since 1968, putting together a 328­179 record. 
NCAA Tournament Edition, March 16, 1989 

Frontcourt man Frank Kornet leads the Commodores in scoring 
(16.8 ppg) and rebounding (7.2 rpg). The 6-8 senior shot 57 percent from the field this season. 
Phelps. "Playing without him improve. is like having Tony Rice hurt "LaPhonso's enabled us to be and not playing quarterback--a well-balanced team," said that's what Joe Fredrick is to the 18th-year Irish coach. this basketball team. We've got "People have to concentrate on to have him healthy; if not, the him a lot because he can guys have to go out and do the rebound and is an impact best they can like they did Sat-player. It's enabled everybody urday against DePaul." else to play above their poten-Fredrick leads the Irish with tial." a 16.6 scoring average and won Ellis leads the parade of the most valuable player freshmen on the roster, but El­award at the team banquet mer Bennett, Keith Tower and Monday. His status remains Daimon Sweet also have made day-to-day at this point. key contributions. The senior-The rest of Notre Dame's less Irish squad will be facing late-season injury problems a Vanderbilt team that has appear to be over. Freshman three seniors and two juniors forward LaPhonso Ellis, who on its starting lineup. missed two games last week "Vanderbilt has great tourn­after suffering a compound dis-ament experience, which we location of his right index lack," said Phelps. "It'll be in­finger, scored 10 points with teresting to see if (our fresh­five rebounds to lead a second-men) play like sophomores, or half comeback against DePaul. if they're still freshmen." "He played very well in the Notre Dame (20-8) starters last 10 minutes of the DePaul include Fredrick, Ellis, for­game," said Phelps. "I think wards Jamere Jackson (16.6 he realized that his finger points a game, 3.7 rebounds a wasn't going to fall off, it was game) and Keith Robinson just sore. Down the stretch, he 02.7, 9.5) and point guard Tim played really well in an 18-4 Singleton (5.8, 1.9). Singleton's run. " 195 assists this year marked the Ellis has averaged 13.2 points second highes· season total in and 9.0 rebounds per game, and school history, behind Jackie Phelps feels his presence on the Meehan's 214 in the 1970-71 floor has helped his teammates season. 





GtttatJJlr.s NOTRE DAME 
PlzzarM 
SPECIALS
v 

FREE DELIVERY! 
Monday thru Friday 5:00 p.m. 'till closing. Saturday & Sunday 12 noon 'till closing. $5.00 minimum order. 
52920 U.S. 31 N. 
277-5880 
·-----------------------,·------------------------­
SUPER PEPPERONI PIZZA SUPER PEPPERONI PIZZA 
2 FOR $9.99 
~s
Pizza,. 
v 
Two large pepperoni pizzas with 40 slices of pepperoni. 
Please mention coupon when ordering. One offer per order. Not valid with any other coupon or offer. 
Expires 5/31/89 

LARGE BACON CHEESEBURGER PIZZA 
$8.99 
Topped with beef, onion, cheddar & mozzarella cheeses, bacon and pickles Please mention coupon when ordering. One offer per order. 
Not valid with any other coupon or offer. 
Expires 5/31/89 

------------------------· 
2 FOR $9.99 
~s
Pizza,.
v 
Two large pepperoni pizzas with 40 slices of pepperoni. 
Please mention coupon when ordering. One offer per order. Not valid with any other coupon or offer. 
Expires 5/31/89 
LARGE BACON CHEESEBURGER PIZZA 

$8.99 
Topped with beef, onion, cheddar & mozzarella cheeses, bacon and pickles 
Please mention coupon when ordering. One offer per order. Not valid with any other coupon or offer. 
Expires 5/31/89 
SUPER CHEESE PIZZA SUPER CHEESE PIZZA 
$6.99 $6.99 
~s ~s
Original or Thin Crust. Original or Thin Crust.
Pizza,. Pizza,. 
Please mention coupon when ordering. One offer per order. Please mention coupon when ordering. One offer per order. Not valid with any other coupon or offer. Not valid with any other coupon or offer.
v v 
Expires 5/31/89 Expires 5/31/89 
-

NCAA Tournament Edition, March 16, 1989 Irish Extra page 3 
Robinson center of Notre Dame's game 
By FRANK PASTOR Assistant Sports Editor 
Last season Keith Robinson 
made his debut on the Notre 
Dame basketball team. 
Just one year later, he is a leader. 
Such is the state of this 
season's seniorless Irish 
squad, and such has been the 
collegiate career of Robinson, 
who has made his share of com­
ebacks in the past two years. 
After sitting out his freshman season under Proposition 48, the 6-9 center from Buffalo, N.Y., played in all 29 games for the Irish his sophomore year and entered this season as Notre Dame's top returning scorer and rebounder. 
Robinson has played a vital role for the Irish this season after returning from a broken foot injury suffered in a pickup basketball game over the sum­mer. He has had to bolster Notre Dame's inside game while simultaneously helping the freshmen frontline players adjust to the collegiate style of play. 
"I've t(lken on a different leadership role this season," said Robinson. "I think I'm ·more of a role player for the freshman group. Coach (Digger) Phelps wanted me to be consistent with my game this year and also help out the 
younger guys. 
"Upperclassmen like Scott 
Paddock and myself on the 
frontline had to take our time 
with them and let them learn 
the system. I think they caught 
on really well." 
Well enough, in fact, that 
freshmen LaPhonso Ellis and 
Keith Tower have been able to 
step in and give the Irish lineup 
enough depth to compete in the 
brutal and often'unpredictable 
NCAA tournament, which 
begins Friday night against 
Vanderbilt for the 20-8 Irish. 
Robinson considers that expe­
rience gained during the 
freshman year invaluable. 
"Freshman year is basically 
a learning year, and I think I 
lost that," said Robinson. 
~Irish Stats 
Player G-S Mln-Avg 
"Everybody else got that year ahead of me to establish them­selves. I was kind of left out, and I had to prove t:nyself last year. It was a lot of hard work as far as trying to catch up, but I think I proved myself last season." 
Much has been made of Propositon 48 and its effects on collegiate athletes such as Tony Rice and Michigan's Terry Mills. The controversial Proposal 42 was advanced this year as an alternative to Proposition 48. controversy. Robinson believes he has per­sonally benefitted from Proposition 48 but like his coa­ch, stands opposed to the new proposal. 
"Proposition 48 was fine," said Robinson, "but I just don't think Proposal 42 is right for a student coming out of high school. The rule doesn't even give students a chance to go to college at all if they don't make a certain grade point average or score on the SAT or ACT. 
"I think these students should be given a chance to go to the school they desire. I think they should be allowed to es­tablish themselves academi­cally first and then get ready to play sophomore year." 
Fortunately for Robinson and the Irish, he was able to return to the team following a one-year absence and averaged 9.6 points and 7.1 rebounds per game in his soph­omore campaign. Now a junior, he has led Notre Dame to a fifth consecutive NCAA 
tournament appearance, 
where the Irish face Vanderbilt 
in the first round. 
" I think we match up pretty well," said Robinson. "They have some good rebounders and some great three-point shooters. I think we're a faster-paced team than they are. It's going to be a very physical game inside, and each team is going to have to play good defense and contain people. 
"I think if we establish the 
game from the start, getting in 
the rhythm and scoring, we'll 
be fine. We just have to match 
FG-A 

J.Fredrick  27-27  845-31  178·329  
J.Jackson  27-27  853-32  126-273  
L.EIIis  25-23  762-30  140-249  
K.Robinson  28-20  812-29  142-271  
K.EIIery  8·0  133-17  17-40  
T.Singleton  28-27  817-29  51-98  
E.Bennett  28-2  398-14  63·139  
D.Sweet  28-1  335-12  66-122  
S.Paddock  26-8  322-12  31-59  
K.Tower  27-5  298-11  26-47  
T.Crawtord  8-0  13-2  6-11  
K.Adkins  14-0  37-3  2-17  
Notre Dame  5625 848-1655  
Opponents  5625 7 46-1599  

Commodore Stats 
Player  G-S  Mln-Avg  FG-A  
F.Kornet  32-32  1014-32  212-374  
B.Booker  32-31  1082-34  163-342  
B.Goheen  32-32  1105-35  154-345  
E.Reid  32-32  935-29  115-250  
D.Wilcox  32-25  1021-32  100-229  
T.Milholland  30-0  209-7  36-74  
M.Wheat  32-1  286-9  35-85  
C.Mayes  32-22  266-8  27-62  
S.Grant  32-3  237-7  26-46  
A.Ballestra  27-0  157-6  15-36  
F.Benjamin  24-2  157-6  17-38  
K.Ogilby  4-0  7-2  0-2  
J.Amsler  7-Q  11-2  0-2  

Final Regular Season 


Keith Robinson has been Notre Dame's "Mr. Consistency" this season, having played in all 28 games, shooting 52 percent from the floor, scoring 12.7 points per game and leading the team in 
rebounds with 9.5 per contest. 
up with them right at half court and not let them set up and shoot the threes." 
Few expected Robinson to recover from last summer's in­jury so quickly. After missing the first month of practice, the junior center returned to the lrish linup and led Notre Dame 
, to a surprisingly easy 81-65 vic­tory over Kentucky in Decem­her's Big Four Classic. He scored 13 points and pulled down 10 rebounds in only 17 minutes of play. "I had just come back from that injury, and I started prac­tieing a month later than the rest of the team," said Robin-
Pet. 3P-A Pet. FT-A Pet. Reb-Avg Ast St BS TO TP Avg .541 31-65 .477 62-85 .729 59-2.2 77 21 1 46 449 16.6 .462 35-81 .432 77-92 .837 100·3.7 48 22 0 70 364 13.5 .562 H 1.000 49-73 .671 226·9.0 28 22 50 58 330 13.2 .524 1-1 1.000 71-100 .710 265-9.5 18 24 8 42 356 12.7 .425 8-18 .444 5-16 .313 22-2.8 11 2 0 5 47 5.9 .520 0-1 .000 60-87 .690 54-1.9 195 47 0 90 162 5.8 .453 6-13 .462 21-35 .600 35-1.3 55 17 2 52 153 5.5 .541 0-0 .000 13-18 .722 42-1.5 14 7 1 22 145 5.2 .525 0-0 .000 10-26 .385 106-4.1 9 7 1 24 72 2.8 .553 0-0 .000 15-32 .469 78-2.9 8 2 16 13 67 2.5 .545 H 1.000 2-3 .667 3-0.4 0 0 0 1 15 1.9 .118 1-11 .091 6-11 .545 8-0.6 4 0 4 11 0.8 
.512 84-192 .438 391-578 .676 1 096-38.2 467 172 79 427 2171 77.5 .467 127-304 .418 388-559 .694 818-29.2 385 219 92 366 2007 71.7 
Final Regular Season 

Pet. 3P-A Pet. FT-A Pet. Reb-Avg Ast St BS TO TP Avg .567 2-7 .286 111-179 .620 231-7.2 39 27 10 47 537 16.8 .477 86-191 .450 55-82 .671 134-4.2 117 49 3 55 467 14.6 .446 59-136 .434 96-130 .739 141-4.4 127 31 2 127 463 14.5 .460 0-0 .000 100-130 .769 192-6.0 40 21 12 39 330 10.3 .437 33-91 .363 40-53 .755 116-3.6 169 38 4 102 273 8.5 .487 2-6 .333 14-17 .824 38-1.3 10 7 8 13 88 2.9 .412 8-27 .296 12-20 .600 50-1.6 11 8 4 24 90 2.8 .436 10-25 .400 17-28 .607 41-1.3 13 3 1 20 81 2.5 .565 0-Q .000 11-14 .786 56-1.8 10 11 4 10 63 2.0 .417 0-0 .000 21-29 .724 41-1.5 9 1 5 15 51 1.9 .447 0-Q .000 6-18 .333 25-1.0 1 3 5 5 40 1.7 .000 o-o .000 0-0 .000 0-0.0 3 0 0 1 0 0.0 .000 0-1 .000 0-Q .000 1-0.1 1 0 0 1 0 0.0 
son. "Coach just wanted to take 
his time with me. I came on pretty strong in the Kentucky game considering the limited amount of time I played. I started to play with a lot more confidence and it started to show each game." 
Robinson finished with a 9.5 rebounding average, the best for an Irish player in 12 years. That mark paced a Notre Dame team which finished second nationally in rebound margin at plus-9. 
He also averaged 12.7 points per game and scored in double figures on 21 occasions, includ­ing 17 of the last 22 games. 
Fredrick 
continued from page 1 
to heap that kind of criticism on Coach Phelps. Sometimes he does things that other people don't understand but they're al­most always the right thing for the situation at hand. 
Season Results
1
Notre Dame 

NO  Opponent  
92  ST.  BONAVEN­ 72  
TURE  
81  Kentucky  65  
84  INDIANA  71  
77  CREIGHTON  64  
68  Valparaiso  71  (OT)  
60  Penn  55  
75  San Francisco  79  
80  Portland  58  
82  UCLA  79  
67  SMU  45  
87  SYRACUSE  99  
85  RUTGERS  63  
64  TEMPLE  60  
85  DAYTON  75  
83  MARQUETIE  68  
80  DUKE  102  
77  Fordham  58  
83  usc  74  
72  BOSTON COLL.  83  
80  LaSalle  78  
89  HOUSTON  80  
83  Day1on  66  
80  Georgia Tech  90  
67  DEPAUL  60  
77  LOUISVILLE  87  
76  Butler  69  
67  Marquette  63  
70  DePaul  73  

Vanderbilt 
v Opponent 66 Michigan 91 94 Chaminade 70 82 Ohio State 97 65 LOUISVILLE 62 69 UAB 76 77 N. Carolina 89 62 Kansas St. 71 93 AUBURN 77 74 MURRAY ST. 57 92 DARTMOUTH 67 91 COLGATE 55 
68 STANFORD 89 73 ALABAMA 53 61 Kentucky 70 72 Mississippi 65 76 GEORGIA 75 84 LSO 85 94 TEXAS 79 78 FLORIDA 81 81 Miss. St. 70 
68 TENNESSEE 
56 67 Alabama 77 81 KENTUCKY 51 71 MISSISSIPPI 69 85 Georgia 72 108 LSU 74 77 Auburn 62 80 Florida 83 77 MISS. ST. 58 61 Tennessee 78 77 Kentucky 63 79 Alabama 83 
"Plus, no one understands what a good friend and a great human being he is with the players. Outside of my parents, he has been the greatest influ­ence on my life. He's one of the reasons I'm looking forward to next year so much." 
And Fredrick is one reason Irish fans can look forward to it. 

Irish head coach Digger Phelps instructs his players during Notre Dame's victory over Indiana early this season. In 1988-9, the Irish achieved their sixth-straight 20 victory season. 
-
-
-
-
The Observer Paul Compton 
... 

' '
' ' 
FINAL FOUR COUNTDOWN 1989 
1st Round: 2nd Round: Regionals March 16-17 March 18-19 

Illinois* 

::::::::::~~~-~:;;~:_;~~!~1--··············· ..···:·················-~ 
Pittsburgh ............................. :::::::::::.:.:..::...:~-~;:~::~~~~~~-----···································· 
Arkansas 

:::~:~;.~~;·::~·;:;;~~:;;J--·······································1 
Louisville ·····················-···---­
::::::::::·~~~-:~:~;;!~::~~~~)----··········-··-··-··········-····· 
Minneapolis, Minnesota March 24 & 26 

. ::::::::::::::::~·o.·r~i~;:~~:~J---·····································-~ 
Missouri ······················· 
:::::::::::::::..::::::~_r;i~;!;;J--·····························-~---··· 
Florida

:.: C;l;~~~;g :--: ] 
_  
rj:,  ;  ,  '·: .~t;~~.l<i~:""":t.  ·~  .•  ~.  , J.,  ,  ]1  Mt·~~·­ l_Wif!Kli'ill,:··,,'lt''J''!!,!t1/:i?,l'_.~~£j~  
Oklahoma*  

::::::::§~;~:!;;~-:--~~~~;l-······································ 
La Salle 

. )······························ 
:::::::::::~~-~-i-;i;;;._I.;~~l-·····························: ........ 
Virginia 

:~~~~F::~:t: 
Alabama South Alabama---· Michigan 

···················-······--···········--­
··················-······················· 
UCLA

..............................................1 
......................!~.'!N.-~--§~-~~~­North Carolina
..............................................1 
SWAC Champion -··································-­
························-····················· 


FINAL FOUR Seattle, Washington April1 & 3 
CHAMPIONSHIP GAME 
Monday, April 3 

Regionals 2nd Round: 1st Round: March 18-19 

1, ~ {-,~.':1'· ;:.'~--~~~:·'!! \tJ 

r :~~~~;~~ 
North Carolina ~H~!~---··· 

_ [ · : :;~:~arolina :--: 
. East Rutherford, New Jersey Kansas State ................ 
March 24 & 26 ........ ···········--~---········-----[~j~~;;~t:~::::::·::::: ................ 
....... I Slan!o.r~L ............................. 

········································l~i-~:~~---··································· 
West Virginia 

I 
···································--[;~~-~-~;.~~~-::::::::::::········::::: 
( 
Duke 

················· ·········---[~~~~~:_g~~~:ii~-~--~~~-~;_::: 
WEST 
Arizona* 

.····· ..... .·················--1:~-~~~~:-~:~:~;.;;:::::::::::::::::::: 
St. Mary's , Calif.
I

.... ··································--1.9:1:~:~:;~~--:···············::::::::::::: 
Memphis State 

············· ·················t·····················:·· . ······--1:~-~-~~~-~::·····:·: ..:·:.......····:·:·::::: 
Nevada-Las Vegas 

···································-11~~~-~--::············:::::::::::::·::::::::: 
Denver, Colorado 
Oregon State 

March 23 & 25 
······························1:~;~~-;~i:!l~: :::::....:...-:::::::::::: 
Seton Hall 
···················t 

-------------------------------I:§.::W.:..Mi~~~~~i:_§~~~;-:::: 
Texas-EI Paso 

.. ·······l:~~~:i:~i~;;._§~~~;. ___:_:::::::::::
···············t·······································l;:~a,~;~;;~ 
*First place seeding 

r--------------------~-~ 
I 
I 
Viewpoint ­
Thursday, March 16, 1989 page 11 
P.O. Box Q 

GSU misrepresents student concerns 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the View­point article appearing in the Feb. 28 issue of the Observer written by Victor Krebs, GSU President. As one of the two Chemistry Department represen­tatives attending the Graduate Student Council meeting of Feb. 14, I feel that some of Mr. Krebs' arguments are vague and misleading. In that column he implies that the voting representa­tives were duly notified of the impor­tant issues to be voted upon through the "customary GSU memorandum." While we did receive this memo con­taining the reminder to attend and an "agenda" two days prior to the meeting, the only hint therein that a 250% officer salary increase and a 25% Student Activities fee increases would be tabled was the seemingly harmless announcement under the heading of Vice President's Report: "budget pro­posal." 
Without the essential details of these proposals being made available to the representatives prior to the meeting in which they were voted on, there was no opportunity for the Council to act in a representative capacity. According to the Preamble of the GSU constitution, the primary purpose of the GSU is to represent the graduate student body. This obviously did not occur in the meeting of Feb. 14. Ironically, the ex­ecutive board is proposing changes to this constitution which would eliminate the term "representative" from the Preamble. In light of their actions, the changes would be appropriate. 
Mr. Krebs argues that representa­tives were given a week to inform their constituencies prior to any public state­ment by the Council, implying that proper representation did occur. However, there is a huge difference be­tween notifying one's constituents of an upcoming issue and notifying them of changes which were approved without their consent. The executive board is ultimately responsible for the inability of the Council to represent the graduate students. 
At the Feb. 14 meeting, it was stressed by Mr. Krebs that an immedi­ate vote on the fee and salary increases was necessary as these issues would have impact on the upcoming elections. I allege that the board knew that the urgency was in fact illusory. After the increases were already approved, it was requested by the executive board and approved by the Council that a spe­cial meeting would be held on Feb. 21 to vote on constitutional changes that would affect these very same elections. Why couldn't the fee-'salary increases be voted upon at the Feb. 21 meeting as well? Perhaps the board was afraid that the Council might not pass the in­creases if the graduate student body knew what was happening, as a recent petition would seem to indicate. 
Furthermore, I am well aware that the present officers do not stand to per­sonally benefit (at least financially) from the resulting salary increases, and I do not believe anybody (including 
the author(s) of a recent petition) is intentionally implying they would. This is not the issue. The issue the graduate students should consider is simply stated: Who should be making these decisions which affect us all? It is ob­vious where the GSU president, Mr. Krebs, stands: "The decisions taken by the council were based on the judge­ment shared by the executive board that they were in the best interests of the graduate student body." This type of statement is very familiar to us all; only the source is surprising. As an adult, I find this attitude distasteful and insulting. The graduate student body is the best judge of what is in its own best interests, and for the president of a sup­posedly representative organization to contend otherwise is a disgrace. How can the University take graduate stu­dents seriously if their own government treats them in a condescending and paternalistic way? Since this is ap­parently the prevailing attitude of the present officers, I am at least consoled by the fact thay they do not seek re­
election. 

Kenneth Dowling Chemistry department rep. to the GSC March 1, 1989 
GSU officers deserve raise 
Dear Editor: 

The Feb. 24 Observer reported ape­tition presented by Chris Kennedy to Fr. Malloy, protesting a recent Graduate Student Union decision to raise GSU officers stipend to $1400 a year and to increase GSU activity fees. 
The Observer has already published Victor Krebs's response to Mr. Ken­nedy's accusations and we would like to express our support for Victor Krebs and the GSU representatives. What needs to be stressed, however, is the issue of pay raises for GSU officers. The current $400 a year stipend is ridiculously low. An increase to $1400 a year is only a slight improvement. The improvements in the administation of the GSU and the increase in the num­ber of Graduate Committees and GSU­sponsored events this year' are due in large part to the dedication of the cur­rent GSU officers. Their commitment is based on a desire to see the GSU mature into a serious and effective rep­resentation of Notre Dame graduate students~ The point can hardly be dis­puted given the almost complete lack of remuneration and recognition for their services. 
How can the GSU effectively repre­
sent graduate students if the officers 
must work on a voluntary basis? It's 
not simply a question of having people 
willing to work hard for the GSU; 
there's a practical question of where 
they'll get the time to do so. If GSU 
officers put in the same number of 
hours for the GSU as graduate assis­
tants do working for their departments, 
they should be paid equally. Without 
financial commitment to a well­
administered, active GSU, it will never 
represent graduate students adequate­
ly. Whose interests are served by a 
weak GSU? 

If Mr. Kennedy has a complaint about GSU procedures, why is he running to Fr. Malloy? The appropriate place to take up the issue is in the graduate stu­dent council. Any petitions should be presented to the GSU, and complaints should be resolved among graduate stu­dents. Why would anyone (and in par­ticular a former GSU officer) be inter­ested in consciously circumventing the established policies by going straight to the highest office of the University and complain there rather than at home, i.e., in the GSU? 
So Mr. Kennedy's petition (read: ac­cusation) is in fact more than a protest. It is undermining the GSU as an insti­tution. In this sense, Mr. Kennedy has caused damage to what we consider a work in progress. Moreover, his act is a slap in the face to those who dedicate a lot of time and energy to make the GSU a better organization so that we, the graduate students, can be better represented and be more actively in­volved on campus. So again, why would someone want to be so counterproduc­tive? 
Volker Frank Greg Maggetti former GS U representatives March 1, 1989 
Graduates invited to meet candidates 
Dear Editor: 
We are writing to inform graduate students that the Graduate Student Union will be holding a general meeting at 7 p.m. Monday March 20 in the Cus­hing Engineering Auditorium. During that meeting the candidates running for the 1989-90 President and Vice Presi­dent positions will explain their plans for the coming year. 
The purpose of this meeting is to pro­vide graduate students the opportunity to decide the future direction of their representative organization. All graduate students are therefore en­couraged to attend. A departmental representatives will be present at the meeting to gather votes from their respective constituencies. Elections will take place during the regular monthly Graduate Council, on March 
21. According to regular procedures, each departmental representative will cast one vote. 
Victor J. Krebs Jeffrey Smart Graduate Student Union March 14, 1989 
Iceberg Debates promote awareness 
Dear Editor: 
The Iceberg Debates represented the 
coming together of many different sec­
tions of the University community in 
pursuit of the goal of increased student 
awareness on key topics of our day. I 
would like to say thanks to all who 
helped with this project. 
I give a special mention to the con­sultant and standing committee mem­bers, the student government volun­teers, the hall presidents, the faculty judges and graduate students and the many people who worked behind the scenes. 
Congratulations to the Zahm and Stanford finalists and to all the contes­tants who have displayed in a very con­vincing manner that Notre Dame students can come together in their own forum to discuss some important social concerns. 
The student government and Center for Social Concerns sponsorship made all of this possible. I hope that through future combined efforts that this .. Iceberg will be only one of many on the Notre Dame winter landscape. 
Joseph McKenna Chairman March 15, 1989 

ND ticket donators receive thanks 
Dear Editor: 
Lately, I have been reading The Ob­server and wondering about our student body which has been described as a homogeneous group which holds just about every reproachable characteris­tic known to man. However, I am writing to give our students some credit--and thanks. 
I would like to thank all the students who donated their Louisville basketball or Air Force football tickets to St. Hed­wig's Outreach Center this year. Thanks to you, a group of children who normally would not have had the op­portunity, watched a game involving a team on its way to a national champi­onship and two major college basket­ball teams. Your contribution was truly appreciated by all the children. Pic­tures from both of these games are on display in Morrissey Hall's lobby. If you would like to participate in the St. Hedwig's tutoring program, contact Jeff Applewhite or Tom Veltz. Thank you again for your generosity. 
Tom King 
Co-president 
Morrissey Hall 
March 14, 1989 

Allegation on Agee found untrue 
Dear Editor: 
Regarding the allegation in the March 14 Observer that "for some 15 years, any mention of Phil Agee's name was prohibited in Notre Dame Maga­zine:" nonsense. 
It's not been true during the six years I've been editor. Staff members with longer tenure say it's never been true .. 
Walton R. Collins Editor Notre Dame Magazine 
....
March 14, 1989 

Doonesbury 
I OON'T HAV£3  
MUCH T/M/3, K/1?,  Y&S,  
50 613T THIS fXJIVN  SIR.  
RIGHT, OKAY?  

HeR& IN TH/3 MTHRIXJM FOY&R, I WANTA MU/?AL, OF 7H/3 LABOR? 
OFH6WUS. {}() ITIN7H/3 57Yl& 
OF M/CHEJAN6Eit0. OR PICA$0. 
()V6OF7JIOS{; fAM(J(JS GUYS... 
" 

Garry Trudeau Quote of the Day 
AND UP ON THIS lA/AU., I tuANT YOU 7lJ PAINTM£3 A BlJNCH OF BOOKS. I R&AU.Y 
~T8001<5, 50MAKE3 
.... 

'13M tOOl< R£3At-TO ' 
'I like thinking big. If you're
~P&OPL&­
WHATIXJ YOU 
going to be thinking anyway, you
CAU.7HAT? 
might as well think big.' 
-
-Donald Trump 

~----­
~---------~-------­
-
Accent 
page 12 Thursday, March 16, 1989 
Reflections on life in Ireland 
T 
KATIE MOORE sing along (not very well, I take baths, very cold baths. per load. Everything comes now I have to walk a mile accent writer might add). This pastime has The sight of a car brings back about three sizes just to find a phone. For­become quite popular lately tears to my eyes after all the smaller than their original tunately, the phone booth is he thought of being able because it has become very walking I have done. sizes. right in front of tbe pub. I to see one's own breath in cold and the. closest pub is Granted, my legs are getting A warm house is only some­think my parents are begin­the middle of November is about a mile away. toned, but the soles of my thing you hear about. We ning to wonder why I'm so not an unusual one.. It struck We are quite limited in the shoes are literally worn have no television or phone. I loud and cheerful everytime I me as rather odd, however, to luxuries we once took for away. don't miss TV, but I sure am call them. be able to consistently see my granted. Kraft macaroni and Laundry costs approxi­hurting without a phone. I own breath while indoors. cheese is a God-send. Hot mately $6 per load, and that used to call my next-door Yes, it's cold here in Ireland. water and showers are expe­is the student's rate. The reg­neighbor when I was in the "The sense of Once you accept that fact rienced only in hotels--we ular rate is approximately $18 dorm at Notre Dame, and responsibility and (accept, not "get us~d to" because I will never get used independence I have to it) then the fun really does gained in just two begin. 
-months has been amazing.''
"I have never felt so spoiled, yet at the 
Sharing a house with three same time, so other people has been fantas­deprived of supposed tic. The sense of responsibil­
ity and independence I have 

'luxuries."' 
gained in just two months has been amazing. My tolerance 
I have never felt so spoiled, level for a "frat house ap­yet at the same· time, I have pearance" has improved. never felt so deprived of sup­Learning to read my posed "luxuries." I'm feeling housemates' moods was a bigspoiled because homework is, bonus also. Learning to cook, well ... an unusual event. however, has been hell. Therefore, we do quite a bit of socializing. A particularly I have left out so manyenjoyable evening would con­details that I would love to sist of about 10 of us sitting in share if I only could. I can front of a roaring fire summarize my first two (although usually it's not months in Ireland by saying I :'roaring" because we haven't have never been so happy in mastered the art of firemak­all of my life. I can alreadying) and listening to Dave say that this has been the Ruppel and/or Marc Conklin best experience of my entire play their guitars while we life. 
The enjoyable affairs of 'Cousins' 
I
KELLEY TUTHILL reveals that Larry is a dance accent writer teacher and Maria a legal secretary who loves her t's silly at times, it's daughter, but is indifferent to romantic at others, but her husband. Finally Tom "Cousins" is always enter­and Tish return explaining taining and never boring. that the car broke down. This comedyAove story takes They apologize for making the viewer through a lusty their spouses the last guests affair and an innocent retalia­at the wedding. tion centered around family The following day Maria gatherings, including a few goes to Larry's dance studio unconventional weddings. to discuss the probability that 
their spouses had started an 
-
The movie begins with the affair the night before. After wedding of Larry Kozinski's this talk, the two begin a (Ted Danson) uncle to Maria friendship that has more sub­Hardy's (Isabella Rossellini) stance than the sexual affair mother. At the wedding Lar­of Tom and Tish. Larry and ry's wife Tish, played by Maria are able to be them­Sean Young, goes off with selves together, although Maria's husband, Tom, a car their relationship remains salesman, to "test drive" the purely platonic. Tom hates Hardy's car. Once again for Maria to wear hats, so Young is cast as the sexy yet Larry buys her a hat. The foursome continues to best moments of the film. The movie comes with the wed­deceiving female opposite a Likewise Tish hates boxer meet at funerals and wed­contrast between Maria and ding of Larry's father, Vince handsome co-star. shorts, and Maria purchases dings, and its encounters are Larry's innocent friendship (a wonderful performance by 
The two do not return for a pair for Larry. The audi­always hilarious. The and Tom and Tish's empty Lloyd Bridges), to Maria's 
hours, leaving Larry and ence becomes a cheering sec­jealousy builds up, and what sexual affair is thoroughly mother, Edie. Once again the Maria time to get acquainted. tion for Larry and Maria each person will do for atten­engaging. foursome is together as the Their first conversation while hating Tom and Tish. tion provides for some of the One night Larry and Maria families unite. The finale of 


Calvin and Hobbes 
Pl-\0, CAN iOO nilS 100 BN). iOO
-FIX M'{ BEAt{IE!' J\ISi SNP.P\l£0 TilE B~-m.R'I I BRJI(E l11E Cf.SE. I'll. ..!\lSi GL\lE II PRCPEUH. MoTOR TOG£rntR At-ID I~S£RT 11\E rn1NG Ttl P\Jr swnt.H R>R '{0..1, OK? If 'TtlGtn\ER. 
-
11\£RE! (;f:J:::J) 1>5 ~EW ! NC:>W j\JS\ lEJ 11-\IS S\T AVl\\ILE 3:) 1\-IE GL\lE CAA s::r. 
" 

plan to bring their families to "Cousins" provides the Bill Watterson the same restaurant for a fireworks to this crazy 

"coincidental" meeting. The Kozinski's and Hardy's end up sharing a table, but the heat is too much for Tish. She storms out of the room crying; her guilt and uneasi­ness at being around Tom's wife is unbearable. Ironically, it's Maria who comforts her husband's lover in the bath­room. The irony of the situa­tions in "Cousins" is so ab­surd that it makes the movie. 
The final scene in the celebration of family, relationships, and love. 

"Cousins" is a remake of the 1976 French romantic comedy, "Cousin, Cousine," which takes an intimate look at the lives of two mis­matched couples and their families. If you enjoy comedy and romance, and you are a sucker for a happy ending, this movie is a definite "go­see." 


-------~----~---~ ---------------~~----------~----------~~----------------------------. 
The Observer page 13
Thursday, March 16, 1989 
-
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's Bookstore Basketball 
late registration and signups will be held Tuesday, March 21 at Saint Mary's. Times and location will be announced. There is a $5 registration fee. Any questions should be directed to Nancy at x3487 or Julie at x2667. 
-The Observer 
The Squash Club will sponsor the Insilco tournament Monday through Wednes­day, March 20-22, in the Joyce ACC. A $5 entry fee includes t-shirt. Registration ends Friday, March 17 in the NVA office. -The Observer 
The Tae Kwon Do Club is offering a half-semester membership enrollment for $30. Interested students should meet at the Joyce ACC fencing gym tonight at 8:30p.m. -The Observer 
The Volleyball Club will host Indiana-Purdue at Fort Wayne Friday, March 17, in the Joyce ACC Pit. The game begins at 7:30 p.m. and admission is free 
-The Observer 
St. Patrick's Day 4k run signups will be held today at 3:30 p.m., in the tent on Fieldhouse Mall. All students, faculty and staff may participate. -The Observer 
. 

The Rugby Club will open its season at noon Saturday, March 18, against Santa Clara at Stepan Field. Anyone interested in playing should report to practice today through Thursday at 4: 15 p.m. at Stepan Field. Call Jim at x1776 for more information. 
-The Observer 

Off-campus lacrosse practice will be Saturday, March 18, at 12:30 p.m. in Loftus. Games begin Sunday or Monday and players must have insurance forms in by 5 p.m., Friday, March 17. Call Bill at 287-5758 for more information. -The Observer 
Men's Bookstore Basketball needs seven teams to break last year's participa­tion record. Interested teams should stop by 241 Keenan today before 8 p.m. Call x3305 with questions. -The Observer 
A scuba diving class will be offered by NVA on Sunday afternoons from 3: 30 to 7 p.m. beginning March 19. More information and pre-registration will be at 6:30 p.m. Thursday at room 218 of the Rock. -The Ob­server 
Douglass 'threatened' by Walters, Bloom 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO--Maurice Douglass of the Chicago Bears testified Wednesday that agent Lloyd Bloom threatened to "have somebody break my legs" if Douglass stopped doing business with Bloom and Norby Walters without returning money and cars given him by the agents. 
Douglass, a defensive back, was a witness at the federal fraud and extortion trial of Bloom and Walters. The New York-based agents are accused of offering college athletes thousands of dollars to become clients and threatening them with violence when they tried to back out of the deals. 
Walters and Bloom have pleaded innocent, claiming they were cheated out of the commissions owed them when 
the athletes signed contracts  
with  professional  football  
teams.  

Douglass, who attended the University of Kentucky, said he signed a contract with Walters and Bloom and shortly after signed a contract with St. Louis agent Jim Steiner after his col­lege eligibility expired. Wal­ters and Bloom gave him money, paid for a rental car and helped him get a car of his own, he said. 
But around the time of the 1986 NFL draft, Douglass said, he told Walters and Bloom he wanted to retain only Steiner. Bloom then telephoned him, he said. 
"He (Bloom) told me that if I did not return the money and the cars that he would have somebody rough me up and I ... might not make it to the draft,'' Douglass testified. "He said he might have somebody break my legs." 
Douglass said he told his mot. her to tell police about the threat if something happened to him. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline lor next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 1 0 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
ATTENTION· HIRING! Government SUMMER JOBS TO SAVE ENVIRON· St. Pat's Day mugs! I need a ride 'to EVANSVILLE IN. for Northern Ireland Seminar students Jobs-your area. $17,840-$69,485. Call MENT On sale in the dining halls Wed., t;:aster break. Will pay. Beth x4802 who went on a Spring Break trip to
NOTICES 
t-602·838-8885, EXT R-6262. EARN $2500-3500. National campelgn Thurs., & Fri. Northern Ireland will talk about their positions to pass clean air act, atop experiences at a public meeting
Therese Walker

Need ride for 2 to ST LOUIS for Easter toxic pollution, tighten pesticide con­Thursday at 6:30 p.m. In the Canter 
TYPING AVAILABLE COME SEE US 
Break. Will help pay expenses. Call Pete trols & promote comprehensive racy­32 oz. green mugs being sold by for Social Concerns. 
287·4082 OR DIE
# 1142. cling, available In t 8 states & D.C. Knott Hall in the dining halls Your Observer Friends
Call Kate at 1-800-622·2202. Mar. 15·171 LeaDiNg EdgE NEED RIDE TO PHILLY, DC, OR NY Only $2.00! LeAdiNG eDGe lEaDinG EdGE NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for AREAS FOR EASTER. WILL HELP 
CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash # 23 IS 19t
WITH DOLLARS KISS SOMEONE AT AUGUSTA'S 
or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK Happy Birthday John-can we celebrate
CALL TASHA X4072 "KISS ME I'M IRISH BASH" ATTENTION STANFORD FRESHMAN: who? 
BOB Howard St. just off of N.D. with champagne?
MARCH 16. 9PM TO 1AM Get your dates now lor the Post St. 
Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 
NEED BABYSITTER ON SATURDAYS SMC CLUBHOUSE--21 ID Patrick's Day Party Sat.. March 18 from 
233·2342 Top tO Quotes from the
FOR 15 MO. OLD. TRANSPORTATION CALL YOUR FRIENDS IN 9p.m.-2a.m., and prepare yourselves for LEADING EDGEI 
"U of I" Experience

PROVIDED. PLEASE CALL 271·8564. AUGUSTA FOR TICKETS this weekend's biggest bash! they rock 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 1 0) 'Would you girls mind ducking
OR # 5341·$4.00 

MRS. COKER, 233-7009. down?" 9) "Do you realize that the entire 
RIDE DESPERATELY NEEDED TO PIT· FOR SALE: 2 round trip tics to OR· 
................................................................ time we were in the car I did not know
TSBURGH EASTER WEEKEND, WILL LANDO. Leave SB 3:45 pm Tues,Mar GET YOUR EASTER BASKETS 
your name?" 8) "It's Otter!" 7) "Oh look,

PAY EXPENSES, HELP WITH 21. Return 1:11 pm Mon. Mar 27. AT 
rt•s our earings!" 6) "Let me sleep, just

DRIVING. THANKS!! LAURA 4948. CHEAP! Call Jen x3688. THE COUNTRY HARVESTER
SCRUBSII ....
for half an hour..." 5) 'What did you guys MON-FRI, 12:00..5:30

I LOST/FOUND I 
SCRUBS!! 

do with the champagne?" "TED SCRUBSII 
DESMOND TUTU IS IN STEP LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
NUGENTI" 4) "Hang on, I need another
NO AAN

Jade green tops and bottoms! Call Tam­
LOST· BLACK CUMMERBUND AT TRI· drink..." 3) "The door's locked. My room· 
my, 284·5134

FOR SALE
MILITARY FORMAL!! call BAET x1389 mate's in there!" 2) "Hello, Scott? It 
Dear Admirer, ··--sENIORS..... $150 RNDTP PLANE TIX SB·NYC Have you introduced yourself
broke...• 1) "It's a long cylindrical thing LOST:CLADDAGH RING from Ireland. that tends to get very hot."
Can you buy Jeeps, Cars, 4 X 4's EASTER. KENT # 4639 yet? What exactly does this dreamgirl
IRISH BANDGREAT sentimental value to me. 11th look like? 

Seized In drug raids for under THURSDAY
floor LIBRARY Wed eve.31t. 11 pm. Baby doll
$100.00? Call for facta today. 61MH137-AG AG AG AG AG AG AG AG AG AG An interested party
MARCH 16

PLEASE contact Terry at X4010 or drop See you tomorrow.
3401, Ext. 881. Congratulations on being an RA!!
ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUe ST. PATRICK'S 
in mail to 7t8 Grace. love, Teddybear. 
You will be the greatest, I just know it! Taste Mom's cooking lor Easter. HI AG FRANK,BERNIE,SUSAN,LIPPA. & FO
CELEBRATION Roundtrip airline ticket to Philadelphia for •••••SENIORs·-·· Love ya! So smoothie happy smoothie
LOST: VCR TAPES. Monty Python's Kelly O'Brien has the luck of the Irish 
Holy Grail, The Running Man, Strange because she has me! Tim in NY 
for smoothie us smoothie that Brew, and others. If found. please call 
sale. Leave 4-23. return 427. Call Sally J.D. 
at3sn. you're home safe smoothie! Mark at 283-1409 or return tapes to Most Memorable Quotes from the 
You guys are WAY great! ·the smoothie
·--·sENIORs•-••

Room 912 Flenner Hall. No questions 1989 Shenanigans' 
ELECTRIC GUITAR Kramer Congratulations, Kalil! loving fresh
CLASS MASS Strlker,blue,3 plckup,whamy ex-Love, Nancy.Julie,Georgie, & Margaret
asked. Reward. Phenomenon of Phun Tour in the $3 and 
SUN. MARCH 19 $5 Vans from Hell!!!

c.con,w-tase 23Gbst Jim 2017 Jeff
ZAHM CHAPEL

LOST: Piece of maroon luggage with -What the F ... is between my legs? ·Cobra 
4PM .....SENIORs•••••

gray piping (Lelaura) carryon bag. Twins!! (Go Between?) -Hey, look at that 
ARF KUILAND Lost Sunday AM at Campusvlew Apts. bush! -Yes. that's a nice building, L. •
NEED A CAR? '82 Subaru, 107K,Decent GOOD LUCK TONIGHT 
parking lot. Call 272·9903. Wa~er, you're drunk! -We're supposed
shape, $925 or reasonable offer. Inquire HEH KITTY AND MARY!! What does K A ORB A 
to fake it.

at 283 3554 one crowded room full of trash and BFA
SKYDIVING season begins Apr 1 If In­
LOST at Lyon&Oillon Formal. Grey (What's new, Gerkin?)
drunken people, four rain days, too LOVE, ElFterested call DEAN 287·3024
Tweed Men's Jacket. Call Christina 239· -Since when did the vans have
ROUND TRIP FLIGHT ANYWHERE much MTV, Gilligan's Island, one 
7424. doors on the left side?
ROUND TRIP FLIGHT ANYWHERE string, three cameras and alx bored
COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: Out­-Kevin F ... s around and gets
call MIKE-1066 people with nothing better to do than LEADING EDGE
standing brothe,.lster sports camps
II you were given a black bow off a black the job done! on largest lake In New England near 
keep a list of quotes add up to? LEADING EDGE 
taffeta dress at the Dillon Formal at the ·I lost my virginity to a LEADING EDGE"ON GOLDEN POND" site seek staff.
Elks Lodge on Feb. 25 rt is mine. Please safety bar. 
eLACKMAIL!! Beware of my wrath
ALL TRAVEL PAID. Call Collect: Roblndel (girls) 215-884-3326, 
call 284-5085 soon. -Who is this man I've been eating? -Hi~on
girls, 
Head Host-Satan Lives On ·The Ques· 
so cool

TICKETS 
Wlnaukee (boys) 203-227-4387 or see
LOST: On Feb. 9 in RoH's Aquatic Center. tion is: Was it Human?!! -Watch for 
your pal, The B _ P queen they'reus on Thurs., Mar. 30, 10:30 AM-2PM
women's locker room, in or around locker ice ... SH ........ TII!I 
HOTat LaFortune.

189. White gold pinkie ring with Thanks for a great tour.
NEEDED TO BUY I NEED A RIDE TO WASHINGTON D.C. 
aquamarine stone. Great sentimental 
GRADUATION nCKETS OR VIRGINIA (CHARLOTTESVILLE)
Rameda Inn of Elkhart has rooms forvalue. Please cal Jennifer at 284·5113. 
I NEED 4 COMMENCEMENT TICKETS FOR EASTER BREAK. WILL SHARE
Graduation weekend. Minimum stay 2 Top 5 Reasons that MCG Can't Walk 5.
OR MY MOTHER IS GOING TO KILL $$$. CALL ROSI AT 3567. Robin Hood: LOST or stolen from S. Dining Hall on Moped Accident (yeah, right--she can't
nights with $100 deposit per room. 
ME!! CALL KRIS AT 1915 Shoot those arrows! 3-2--blue and tan backpack. Contains im· be that uncoordinated!) 4. Shark Attack
Send letter to 3011 Belvedere Rd.,
EVEN IF ALL YOU HAVE IS ONE TO Hit that target!
Elkhart, IN 46514 or Call 219-262·1 581. 
portant research for Anthro Dept. Call 3. Surfing Accident 2. Bar Brawl (that
SELL -Archdruld
SAINT MARY'S SOPHOMORE PAR· 
Chris at X3578 REWARD. sounds like the girl we knowl) 1. RoughTO THE BLONDE (WGLASSES) FROM 
ENTS' WEEKEND'S proofs are up in the 
Sex !I!!! 

HEY I NEED ONE EXTRA GRADUA· game room at Haggar College Center.
KNOTT WHO CAME UP TO SAY HIFound: Set of keys near Rockne Mem. 
TION TICKET II WILL PAY. CALL PAUL Hurry and check them out.
WITH A FRIEND FRIDAY NIGHT AT
Call 2485 to identify. Anyone DRIVING to ST. LOUIS for RAZZLE'S IN DAYTONA BEACH . 
AT X-1414 THE WAKE 
................................................................ Easter?? If so. I need a ride and will
CC, CR. JH. CC: THE WAKEWHERE CAN I FIND YOU?·ND SWEAT· share in the expenses. Please call Julie 
..

Room 1 02 in Paradise City. Be good· THE WAKESHIRT at 2108. 
you will be lonesome. Daquiri·induced
FOR RENT 
Be there this Saturday when Alumni
delirium. Publixing · bonding· friendlying. 
HEY IRISH!!

PERSONALS 
CLASS OF 19911! 

COME CELEBRATE Navels/ fuzzy, hairy, sunkist. Strobe ad· wakes its stale past and celebrates its 
VOTE ROMANELLI

HOUSE NEAR CAMPUS AVAILABLE diction in a big way. I may be stupid but rebirth as the Center of the Universe!
ST. PATS WEEK AT SENIOR BAR FAEHNER
FOR RENT UNTIL AUGUST. 232·3616. at least I'm tan. No more carbos or K9's, PERKINS
MF--"Confidence is high. My state is CR. to the greatest men on campus:
SENIOR BAR ST. PATS FRI LUNCH!! 
BUTKOVICH

peaking." At least they're teaching you something NO PITCHERS
CORNED BEEF&CABBAGE & MORE ... 
FOR JUNIOR CLASS OFFICE NOON-2:00 
in college. That's what living is to me­Good Luck in North Carolina! Your fa· 
verite aerobics instructor JEN 
SZ

WANTED 
BLUES BLUES BLUES .... SAT. 10:00 hi ag HOPING TO ADOPT
SENIOR BAR BILLY NICKS and the We're a happily married, financially
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT JOSEPH. 
N's and OUTS BLUES..SAT..SENIOR SUMMER JOBS secure couple with a beautiful home
FISHERIES. Earn $600<t-Week in can· I HOPE THAT YOU HAVE A GREAT 
BAR ALL LANDWATER SPORTS and lots of love to share with much·
nary, $8,000·12,000¢ for two months on DAY! ATTENTION 
fishing vessel. Over 8,000 openings. No YOU ARE THAT BESTIII To the chivalrous gentleman who helped 
PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS wanted beby. If you are pregnant and
Start St. Pat's Day at SENIOR BAR
·experience necessary. MALE OR I LOVE YOU, me with my groceries in front of Flanner
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS considering placing your beby for
FRIDAY LUNCH NOON-2:00

FEMALE For 52-page employment book­WINNIE in Tuesday: I didn't get your name, but
NEAR LAKE PLACID adoption, please call us. We can help
let, send $6.95 to M&L Research, Box I want to thank you again. You have res·
CALL 1-800-343-8373 you, and you can help us make our
BE A GOOD EGG lives complete. Expenses peld. Con·
84008, Seattle, WA 98124. 30 day. un· tared my faith in men. Thank you. 
ronditional, 100% money back guarantee CLAUDINE, BUON COMPLEANNOI The Blond Damsel in
fldentlal, legal. Call Deborah and 
and help us get home to E BUON LAVORO DOMANI Distress from Farley
ADOPTION· Caring, financially secure David collect day or night at 3121935­
CAUISESHIP JOBS ST. LOUIS IN CALCOLO! -SIGNOR DIFRANCO
couple ol Irish and Swedish ancestry 4088, or call our counselor collect at
$300 TO $900 WEEKLY FOR EASTER. Call Pete X2459 or Laura
wish lo love, cherish, and raise your new­31 z-280-8744.
CALL LINDA 9-5 WEEKDAYS 1-612· X3948
born child. Legal and confidential. Please 
456-0884 EXT. C-4080 MEN OF ALUMNI HALL: YOGURT WENCH
call Linda and Craig COLLECT: 21 2-8n· 
Help!!! I need a r;de to F·ittsburgh (PA the weakened spirit of our dorm will rise 
3574 

RIDE NEEDED to Nashville for Easter Turnpike 6) on 3-29 or 3·30. VERY im· Remember, ~·s still Z BALLS WEEK So again this weekend... Will share expenses.Call Christina 239-portant!! Will help with gas and toll. Mike call3410 and ask him how his RA inter· IRISH WAKE-BE THERE DEXTER & SINISTER· keep your ear to 7424 Scap!!! (Use it) 4141 views tasted. the ground on Saturday! 

page 14 The Observer Thursday, March 16, 1989 

' 

•
Introducing "Apple Pays Half" 
.,. 
Ifyou buy a qualifying Madntosh system before March 31 
Apple will pay up to half of the retail price of selected 
printers, disk drives, moderns, and other peripherals. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 25 Computing Center 239-7477
_. 
.® 


.. 

page 15The Observer

Thursday, March 16, 1989 
-
playing Loyola-Marymount; Louisville taking on Arkansas­
Hoops Florida, Stanford ready for
Little Rock and No. 18 Ball 
continued from page 20 
The East Regional begins at Greensboro, N.C. with Kansas State against Minnesota; No. 14 West Virginia vs. Tennes­see; No. 13 Stanford vs. Siena and No. 9 Duke vs. South Carolina State. 
The Midwest Regional opens at Indianapolis with No. 3 Illi­nois, the top seed, taking on McNeese State; Arkansas State playing Pitt. 
Oklahoma begins tourna­ment play having plummeted from a position of being one of two or three favorites several weeks ago to a relative out­sider. In fact, despite its No. 1 seed in the Southeast, od­dsmakers list it as the third choice in the regional behind second-seed North Carolina and third-seeded Michigan. 
-~e-Obse.----9'_'~r-----­
--=-.l-=l-l -~-=·=-..., 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Day Chief 
For further information, please contact Matt Gallagher at 239-5303 or 283-1957. 
Associated Press Florida," Quick said Wednes­
day. "They have quality in 
INDIANAPOLIS--The smart every position and depth at money might be on Florida in every position. The rest of us the NCAA women's swimming are really in a scramble for and diving championships this second place." week, but don't count Stanford Yet Quick's top swimmer, 
out. 1984 Olympic silver medalist 
Those two teams stand the Jenna Johnson, revealed Stan­best chance of ending the five­ford's real goal. year reign of Texas, weakened "We would love to kill by the loss of its coach and Florida," she said. "If every­three key swimmers-­one on the team swims their breaststroker Susan Johnson, best, we have a good chance to freestyler Carrie Steinseifer win. We have a lot of unknown and butterflyer Kelley Davies­talent--young swimmers who -who retired after the Olympic could come into their own this year. weekend." 
Florida returns all but one Johnson's sights may be high, scorer from last year's runner­but she's predicting the Car­up squad and packs its lineup dinal will peak for the NCAAs. with four 1988 Olympians and In a dual meet at Texas last arguably the best freshman month, the Cardinal took 13 of class in the nation. 16 events and swept both back­
That makes the Gators the stroke and breaststroke events odds-on favorite at the Indiana on their way to a 95-45 victory. University Natatorium begin­Against the same Texas ning Thursday, according to team, Florida narrowly won, Stanford coach Richard Quick, 56-55. who left Texas to join the Car­"They're obviously both dinal last year. tough teams," Texas coach 
"If I was betting, I'd bet on Mark Schubert said. "But 
If you've ever dreamed of bei11t; behind the controls If you're cut out for it, we'll give you free civilian of an airplane, this is your chance to find out what flight training, maybe even $100 a month cash while it's really like. you're in school. And someday you could be flying 
AMarine Corps pilot is coming to campus who a Harrier, Cobra or F/A-18. 
Get a taste of what life is like
can take you up for trial flights. 
at the top. The flight's on us.
We're looking for a few 

The Marine Corps Office selection team will be on campus TODAY from 11-5 in the O'Hare Lounge, LaFortune Center to schedule appointments for flights. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL 1-800-728-9228 
women's swimming NCAAs 
whatever happens during the season doesn't mean anything. When you shave and taper at the end of the season, it's a whole new ball game." 
Veteran Florida coach Randy Reese may be tutoring his most talented team ever, yet he is wary of the Gators' strong showing in the Southeas­tern Conference champion­ships. Florida won 16 out of 18 events and set eight _SEC records while beating run­nerup Tennessee 907.5-664. 
"It helped them a lot but it didn't help me," Reese said. "I would have liked them not to swim so fast. I wonder how rested they are." 
Eight members of the 1988 
U.S. Olympic team will com­pete at the women's NCAAs, in­cluding Florida's Tami Bruce, Dar a Torres, Laura Walker and Paige Zemina. Other Olympians are Leigh Ann Fet­ter and Andrea Hayes at Texas, Mitzi Kremer of Clemson and Erika Hansen of Georgia. 
Boyd  
continued from page 20  
the National Catholics when he was a sophomore and senior,  
the Michigan State Tourna­ 
ment when he was a sophomore and junior, and the always  
competitive St. Louis Invita­tional when he was a junior.  
These accomplishments were  
not overlooked when he was  
voted into the tournament. Boyd, along with fellow  
seniors Jerry Durso and Chris  
Geneser, put Irish wrestling on the map four years ago.  
"Notre Dame wrestling has come an awful long way in four  
years," said Boyd. "Most of the  
credit should be given to the  
coaches." He is referring to Fran  
McCann who took the reigns  
five years ago and Rick  
Stewart who became assistant  
in 1986. Since McCann has be­come coach, Notre Dame has  
risen in both success and rankings. For the first time  
ever, the Irish were ranked in the top twenty in the final poll,  
coming in at number 18. Boyd also had nothing put  
praise for his teammates, who  
have helped him attain his Na­ 
tional Tournament goal.  
"We really appreciate the  
guys who didn't make the tour­ 
namnent," stated Boyd. "They  
gave up their Spring Break so  
they could help us practice. It  
is all a team effort at Notre  
Dame."  
Boyd has an good chance of  
being seeded in the top twelve  ....  
coming into the tournament.  
He has already upset the third­ 
ranked wrestler in the country,  
Stacy Richmond from Mic­ 
higan State, earlier in the  
season.  
"I've got an excellent chance  
of placing if I keep my head on  
straight," said Boyd. "Wres­tling is 90 percent mental when  
it comes to the Nationals."  
Boyd will definitely be  ...  
looking to knock off the big kid  
on the block, and if he does,  
chances are, he will be the new big kid on the block at a whop­ 
ping 142 pounds.  
...  



-
page 16 The Observer Thursday, March 16, 1989 
Football renews quest for another championship 
Special to The Observer 

With Wednesday's opening of spring practice, the Notre Dame football team has begun its challenge of pursuing a na­tional title all over again. 
Even with an experienced team anchored by 16 returning starters, Irish coach Lou Holtz knows that defending last year's title will not be a simple job. 
"On paper, we should be a good team," says Holtz, "but who knows if this year's team will have the same work habits as last year's group? Who knows if the commitment will be the same? Who knows what the chemistry will be like? Those are questions that can't be answered until we get into the season. 
"We have a chance to be a better football team than last year, based on our personnel and experience. But that doesn't mean we'll have the same kind of record." 
The Irish must replace 12lost lettermen, including six starters. Offensively, Notre Dame will be missing regulars like tailback Mark Green (1,977 career rushing yards) and tackle Andy Heck (a first-team All-American in 1988). On defense, the losses include end Frank Starns (a consensus All­American), linebacker Wes 
NCAAs 
continued from page 20 

but still has plenty of experi­ence. Last year, Durso made it all the way to the quarterfinals before losing a close match to Joei Bales of Northwestern. 
Geneser, who is from Wood­ward, Iowa, has a 30-6 record this year with nine pins. He has tournament victories this year at Michigan State and at the National Catholics, where he wrestled at 177 poundS instead of his current 167 pounds. If everything goes well, Geneser looks to have his best tourna­ment ever. 
Durso, who is co-captain along with Geneser, has com· piled 127 total wins with only 27 losses, which includes 32 wins this year and 38 as a freshman. Wrestling at 134 pounds, Durso is hoping to improve and pos­sibly place. 
''The whole year comes down to this," stated Durso. "If you had to wrestle well, this is the time." 
The last entrant into the tournament is senior Pat Boyd, who is making his first-ever tourney appearance. Boyd was granted another year to wrestle because of an injury suffered junior year. Boyd (21­
5) has been ranked in the top 
... ten at 142 pounds for most of the year. Going into the Nation­als, Boyd could be ranked in the top eight, which will make his fight for the championship that much easier. 
The -NCAA Tournament is 
.. what the season boils down to for the seniors. It is now or never for Durso and Geneser, the wrestlers who made Notre Dame part of the elite. An NCAA championship would be an excellent way to finish a storybook career for two guys who have always dreamed of standing atop the winners plat­form looking down on the likes of Iowa and Arizona State. 
Pritchett (the team's top tack­ler in 1988 with 112), strong safety George Streeter and end Flash Gordon. 
The graduation losses are not huge in number, yet Holtz knows those seniors had much to do with setting the tone for 
Notre  Dame's  success  last  
year.  
"Everyone told  me we  had  

the same team coming back next year," said Holtz. "We had our first team meeting after the Fiesta Bowl in mid­January. But when we started to talk about next year, I ex­cused the graduating seniors, and some awfully good football players got up and left." 
Notre Dame returns 46 monogram winners, including nine offensive starters, seven more on defense, the top punter plus one of the top two Irish placekickers. 
Tops on the list of returnees is senior quarterback Tony Rice (70-of-138 for 1,176 yards, 8 touchdowns, 7 interceptions), who led Notre Dame in rushing last season (121 rushes for 700 yards, 9 TDs). 
Rice did not receive much preseason notice as a junior, but he will in 1989, especially after faring impressively in head-to-head matchups last fall with Miami's Steve Walsh, USC's Rodney Peete and West Virginia's Major Harris, all 1988 Heisman Trophy finalists. In the Fiesta Bowl, Rice averaged better than 30 yards per completion, threw for a career-high 213 yards and rushed for a game-high 75 yards. 

Junior Ricky Watters (30 for 71, along with team-leading 15 catches for 286, 2 TDs) is ex­pected to switch from the flanker spot he played last fall to the tailback slot he occupied as a freshman in 1987. At ful­lback, the Irish have senior An­thony Johnson (69 for 282, 5 TDs), senior Braxston Banks (31 for 129, 1 TD), who must bounce back from knee prob­lems, and sophomore Rodney Culver (30 for 195, 3 TDs). 
The receiver positions in­clude sophomore Derek Brown (12 for 150, 3 TDs) and junior Frank Jacobs (1 for 14) at tight end, senior Pat Eilers (6 for 70) at flanker and sophomore Rag­bib Ismail (12 for 331, 2 TDs) at split end. With Watters switching back to tailback, Is­mail probably would move to flanker. 
The offensive line includes four returning starters with senior Tim Grunhard and junior Tim Ryan at guard, junior Mike Heldt at center and senior Dean Brown at one tackle. Sophomore Gene McGuire will switch from cen­ter to guard, while junior Win­
~· 

Happy St. Patrick's Day From 
~~~~ 
IRISH 
GARDENS 
ston Sandri likely will move from guard to center. Look for sophomore Mirko Jurkovic, a defensive tackle last year, to play guard in 1989. 
On defense, the Notre Dame· line returns intact in junior left tackle George Williams (44 tackles, 4.5 sacks), junior nose tackle Chris Zorich (a first­team All-American last season with 70 tackles, 3.5 sacks) and senior right tackle Jeff Aim (50 tackles, team-leading 3 inter­ceptions). 
The end spots must be rebuilt, following the losses of Starns and Gordon. The drop end slot features sophomore Arnold Ale and junior Andre Jones, each of whom started four games last year. The rush end position includes junior Scott Kowalkowski and senior John Foley, who missed all of last season with a nerve injury in his bicep. 
Senior Ned Bolcar, one of last 
C) 
0 • e
0 ·
..:... 
..ee·· 

March 14-N.D. LaFortune 6-10 pm 15-N.D. LaFortune 6-10 pm 16-S.M.C. LeMans 5-9 pm 
Don't Forget . 
• 
$70.00 per Bid 

• 
Get measured for Tux 

• 
Buy Flowers 

• 
Arrange Roommates and Dinner Seating 



IT STARTS TONIGHT 
THURSDAY-Catch the spirit with THE IRISH Sounds of John Kennedy BAND 
1,& "The Green Shall FLOW" 
FRIDAY 
A TRADITIONALLY IRISH DAY Arso 
LUNCH 12:00-2:00 
~ Corned Beef, :bage etc.~ 
season's tri-captains, has been granted a fifth year of eligibility and should bolster the linebacking corps. 
The Irish are set at corner­back with senior Stan Smagala, junior Todd Lyght and senior D' Juan Francisco. Senior Pat Terrell is back at free safety, but junior Greg Davis is the only experienced returnee at strong safety. Sophomores Rod Smith, Shawn Davis and Rusty Setzer, all of whom played of­fense as freshmen, are possi­bilities to move to the second­ary. 
The kicking game returns junior punter Jim Sexton (38.9 average) and junior placekicker Billy Hackett (5 of 7 PATs, 3 of 4 FGs). The Irish return game is set with Ismail, who led the nation in kickoff returns in 1988, and Watters, who ranked fourth nationally in punt returns. Both players had two touchdown returns. 

SAT: ~ 
Billy "Stix" Nicks and theN's & Outs 
Thursday, March 16, 1989 The Observer page 17 
-
Deadlines approach for Frieder takes reigns at ASU 
upcoming NVA events Assistant Fisher chosen to coach Michigan in NCAAs 
Special to The Observer 
Non-Varsity Athletics has announced deadlines for several approaching events. 
Faculty staff low-impact aerobics have begun. Classes are held Mondays and Wednes­days from 6:45 to 7:30a.m. in the Joyce ACC Pit. The fee is $5 for a half-semester. 
Rosters must be submitted to the NVA office before Wednes­day, March 22 for the graduate department slow-pitch softball league. Rosters must have a minimum of 12 players and list captains. Play will start as early as weather permits and equipment will be provided. 
Men's and women's Interhall rosters must be submitted to the NVA office before Wednes­day, March 22. Rosters must include at least 12, but not more than 14, players from the same hall. Play will begin as early as the weather permits and equipment will be furnished. 
The deadline for Interhall baseball rosters is also Wed­nesday, March 22. The entry fee is $15 and rosters must con­sist of at least 14 players, but not more than 18. All players must be from the same hall and equipment will be furnished. Anyone interested in umpiring should contact the NVA office. 
A women's Interhall soccer tourney will be held with a $25' entry fee per team. The dead­line is Wednesday, March 22 and proof of insurance is re­quired. All players must be 
from the same hall. 
Five Kayaking sessions will be held beginning April 4. Classes will also be held April 6, 11, 13 and 18 from 6:30 to 9 
p.m. nightly. A one-day excur­sion will be held following the lessons on April 22. The cost is $19 per person. A minimum of five people is needed. 
For more information about any of the above events, call the NVA office. 
Reginald Ho University of Notre Dame • 2nd Team Football! 
University Division • Placekicker • Pre-Professional Major • 
3.77 GPA• 

Junior • Hometown: Kanoehe, HI • 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich.--Bill Frieder's coaching career at Arizona State began earlier than he wanted when Michigan told him if he's going, go now­-before his Wolverines play in the NCAA tournament. 
"I don't want somebody from Arizona State coaching the Michigan team," Athletic Director Bo Schembechler said Wednesday. "A Michigan man is going to coach Michigan." 
No sooner had word gotten out that Frieder had accepted the basketball coaching job at Arizona State, two days before the start of the tournament, than Schembechler announced that assistant coach Steve Fis­her would lead the 24-7 and lOth-ranked Wolverines in the NCAAs. Michigan's first game is Friday in Atlanta against 21­11 Xavier. 
Arizona State had contacted Michigan to inquire about Frieder after basketball coach Steve Patterson resigned Feb. 4, Schembechler said. But he said Frieder's announcement stunned him. 

"I had no forewarning at all," he said. "We just assumed 



A 

Bill Frieder 

that if anything would occur, it'd be after the NCAA tourna­ment. I wouldn't have done it that way, but that's up to him." 
Frieder, who was The Asso­ciated Press Coach of the Year in 1984-85, told his players of his decision in a series of early-morning phone calls from Arizona. 
"I think I'm speaking for the rest of the team when I say we're shocked," center Loy Vaught said. "He never let on that he was leaving." 
Frieder offered to coach the Wolverines, seeded third in the Southeast Regional, through the tournament. But Schem­bechler said he telephoned Frieder and told him Fisher would run the team. 
Frieder compiled a 191-87 record--including six straight 20-victory seasons--at Mic­higan since taking charge of the team in 1980. He led the Wolverines to Big Ten titles in 1985 and 1986. 
A permanent replacement for Frieder wouldn't be named until after the NCAA cham­pionships, Schembechler said. He refused to speculate about candidates. 
New-found fame and fortune hard on Calcavecchia 
Associated Press 
PONTE VEDRA, Fla.--Mark Calcavecchia, the sensation of the early season, is having some problems with his new­found fame on the PGA tour. 
"I'm struggling with it a little bit," Calcavecchia said Wed­nesday before a final practice round for the $1.35 million Players Championship. 
The tournament, recognized as the annual championship of golf's touring pros, begins Thursday with Calcavecchia among the favorites for the $243,000 first prize. 
Calcavecchia, who won the Australian Open title late last year, leads the American tour this year with $429,112. 
He won the Los Angeles and Phoenix Opens, missed a playoff at the Bob Hope by one stroke and was third in another one. 
"I could have won four tour­naments already this year,'' he said. 
And with that success has come increased attention from press and public, a situation that is new to the man who was struggling to make ends meet as recently as four years ago. 
"It's part of the price you pay," said Curtis Strange, the 1988 U.S. open champion and Player of the Year. 
"We all strive to play well. When you do, and you win, that attracts attention. The better you play the more attention you get. 
..
"You can't separate the two." It is a problem that Calcavec­chia has to handle. 
"I'm having a little trouble with it," he said, and hinted that it could be affecting his performance. 
"At Eagle Trace (the Honda ­Classic two weeks ago), I was bombarded, people coming over to the house for two-hour interviews, the phone ringing all the time, all that stuff. .... 
"They just blew me away. I was out of it," Calcavecchia said. 
He missed the cut in that tournament and hasn't played particularly well since. 

Congratulations to the GTE Academic AU-Americans~ 
They are the leaders of the team. But what makes them even more special is their out­standing academic records. They are the GTE Academic All-Americans, selected by the College Sports Information Directors of America (CoSIDA) for being high achievers­in the game as well as the classroom. GTE is proud to be the official sponsor of this 37-year-old program and congratulates these student-athletes on their Academic All-American achievements. 
GIEAcADEMICAu.-AMERICA®TEAM ~
[iji=l 
SELECTED BY CoSIDA~ 
THE POWER IS ON •Academic Ali·America is a registered service mark with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. 

·---~--~ ~ ~---­
Thursday, March 16, 1989
page 18 The Observer
-
•

Louisville likes its experience 1n Hoosier Dome 
Associated Press State, holders of the nation's Indiana and if that's any indi­top record in Division I at 28-2. cation of how we'll play, I like 
INDIANAPOLIS--Louisville Louisville has played in the our chances." considers the site an advantage Hoosier Dome the past two Mike Newell, a former high in Thursday's first-round seasons and defeated Indiana school star and coach in In­NCAA midwest Regional date 101-79 here in December. diana who still holds the semi-· with Arkansas-Little Rock. The "It's hard when you're trying 
Trojans discount the impor­to take an outside shot," said tance of the Hoosier Dome and center Pervis Ellison, the Car­claim the underdog role can dinals' No. 2 all-time scorer help them. with 2,102 points who has a 
The two meet in the opening team-high average of 18 points game of the Midwest Regional and 8.5 rebounds. "The guys at Indianapolis. Louisville, 22-who take the outside shot, you 8, heads into the game as the can see the crowd and No. 4 seed in the region as it everybody behind the basket. goes after its third NCAA title It kind of hurts the jump shot.'' of the decade. The Trojans, Louisville forward Kenny seeded 13th, are 23-7 and Payne, like Ellison a senior making only their second ap­who played on the 1985-86 team 

pearance in the tournament. that defeated Duke 72-69 for the Pervls Ellison 
Arkansas, 24-6, plays high­1986 NCAA championship, state record at Lafayette of 54 
scoring Loyola-Marymount, 20-agreed. points in a game, said his club 
10, in Thursday's second game. "I think it affects you, be­isn't going to be bothered by 
In the evening, top-seeded Illi­cause it's bright, you see the playing in a domed facility. 
nois, 27-7, takes on McNeese top of the dome and you can "Three years ago we played 
State, 16-13, followed by Pit­see the glaring light," he said. in the Metrodome (as the No. 
tsburgh, 17-12, against Ball "We played well here against 13 seed) and beat (No. 4 seed) 
minor shakeups in the West simply because of their lack of make things interesting. a dominant big man. Sure,
Tourney 
Memphis State, a late bloomer, they're balanced (Gill, Bardo, 
continued from page 20 
will take out UNLV and join Battle, Anderson) but Okla­Arizona, Seton Hall and LSU homa's athletes match the 11­won't and Kansas State should 
(who knocked off the Hoosiers lini' s and Stacey King willhandle Minnesota as long as the last round) in the final 16. prove too tough in the end. 
game isn't within a 150-mile 
I hate to say it, but I just can't The Georgetown-Arizonaradius of Minneapolis. 
see any deviation from the top game is the one I'm dying toArizona should waltz through four seeds making the Final see. Two great teams, twothe West, but there could be Four. Duke might be able to great coaches, two greatsome surprises in the West beat Georgetown in the East defenses, stars, lots of roleRegional. Idaho could very and North Carolina might be players. Give the nod to thewell upset UNLV, considering able to take out Oklahoma in Hoyas just because Johnthe Rebels' tendency to be the Midwest, but in my mind Thompson will be on the war­overconfident against lower Illinois and Arizona can't be path to avenge his bronzeranked teams. 
touched in their brackets. medal showing .
The Evansville Purple Aces 

The Nitty-Gritty--As good as But Billy Tubbs will have the will send Ralph Miller's Illinois looks right now, I don't last laugh. Oklahoma, the oneOregon State Beavers out think can go all the way top seea that no one really
rudely and LSU will oust Texas-El Paso. Later Round Developments-­
Summer
The Sweet 16 finalists from the Southeast will go largely as ex­pected: Oklahoma, Michigan, North Carolina and Cinderella, uh, I mean, Middle Tennessee State, which will beat Virginia 
STORAGE 
in the second round. Arkansas will upset Louis­ville and join favorites Illinois, 
RESERVATION 
Missouri, and Syracuse as Sweet 16 entrants from the Mirlt­west. It's agat~s 
CALL NOW I683-19591 
my better judgment placmg Missouri this far along after 
• VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS
disasters in the early rounds over the last few years, but I 
•APPROX 2Y2 MILES NORTH US 31-33
have to think the Tigers have enough talent to make a move this year, even without Norm 
•GATES OPEN ALLDAY SUNDAY 
Stewart. 
Master Mini Warehouses 
It'll be Georgetown, Iowa, 

P.O. BOX 100 NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
Stanford and Duke--the party line--in the East, but some 
"BEST LITTLE STORE-HOUSE IN MICHIANA" 
--·····--·--·
. ···~·-··--·-----·------·--···-· 

-
march 17, 18, 19 f1~9illf friday, march 17 at 6:oo pm 1r(}phi~f j(}r 1ff, 21ul at1tl Jrd f/tJc~ 1-Jhirff j(}r aJJ ~t1frat1ff m~t1·$ (ltfvat1C~tf & /t1f~rtn~tfjaft! 'M/(}tn~t1·f Op~t1 


HOJI'/111L/1Y Clll1lA Oflll 111 IILL 1/mt) 

$6.oo ~t1fry fee 
Notre Dame," he said in refer­ence to the upset his club posted in its previous NCAA ap­pearance at Minneapolis. 
The Trojans then took North Carolina State to two overtimes before losing in the second round at the Metrodome. 
"We like the domes. The bas­ketball courts, I think, are still the same length and the bas­kets are still the same height. That's the only thing to concern ourselves with. 
"As far the larger crowds, we're accustomed to that. We played a great schedule to prepare ourselves for this very thing." 
"It won't affect the shooting at all," said Trojan senior for­ward Johnnie Bell, one of five starters averaging in double figures with a 17.8 average. "I played in the Silverdome. It's just like playing in high school." The big difference in 
seems to be talking about right now, will rebound in a big way from their lackluster Big Eight Conference tournament perfor­mance. Mookie Blaylock and Stacey King comprise the best 1-2 punch in the country, and it's not like they have no sup­porting cast. Tyrone Jones and Terrence Mullins would be headliners at 95 per cent of the schools in the country. Sooners, 98-91. 
Kaplan LSAT prep-We plead guilty! 
The first, the biggest, the best. We plead guilty on all counts to giving LSAT candidates like you the finest test preparation possible. 
· Every year, Stanley H. Kaplan preps more men and :vo~en for the LSAT than anyone else. Why? .. -It s simple! Our teachers are LSAT specialists who know what it takes to score. Our research staff keeps you on top of the latest test changes. Our home study pack and audio study lab lets you get as much LSAT practice as you need . 
Want proofl Call or visit any of our over 130 nat~onwide locations. Ask about our free repeat policy and our scholarship programs. You'll find the professionalism your future deserves. Beyond the shadow of a doubt. 
I KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCAnONAL CENTER LTD. 
6/12/89 LSAT Prep Class Starts 3/16/89 
KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 
219/272-4135 
basketball tradition doesn't bother Newell. 
"Any time you're the lower seed, I think you've got an ad­vantage," he said. "The parity is such in college basketball that I think the word upset is going to come out come tourn­ament time." 
''At tournament time I do my very best not to worry about opponents," said Louisville co­ach Denny Crum, 29-13 in NCAA action and a winner in 21 of his last 26 games in the tournament. "My job is to get my team to play their best and that's what I try to do ... If we do the things that we do best, then we have a chance to win." Crum, who won his first NCAA championship at nearby Mar­ket Square Arnea in 1980, said earlier this season his team had no chance of winning the NCAA. 
THE PART·TIME JOB THAT COMES WITH $5,040 FOR COLLEGE. 
While you're in college, a part-time job that offers good training, usually takes only one weekend a month plus two weeks Annual Training, and pays over $80 a weekend to start would be worth looking into. But this one offers even more. up to $5,040 for college with the Montgomery Gl BilL So if you could use a little help getting through school--the kind that won't interfere with school--stop by or call: 
SGT Craig Cheek 
at 234-4187 
Be All You Can Be. ARMY RESERVE. 

.. 




51 M PLE OVAL FOR BOB'S FACE. 

...---~----~----­
Thursday, March 16, 1989 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
9:15 a.m. Humanities Colloquium "Qur'an Interpretation," by David Burrell, Philosophy!fheology,_Room 131 Decio Fac­ulty Hall. 
Noon GALA-Kellogg graduate student workshop "A View of a Different Colombia," by Miguel Fadul, Department of Eco­nomics, Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
4:15p.m. AT&T Visiting Scholar series "Of Core Curricula: Perzig's Zen and the Guns at Cornell Towards Epistemic Literacy," by Sylvia Wynter, Stanford University, Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
7:30 p.m. Anthopology lecture "An Archaeological Tour of St. Patrick's Ireland," by Ronald Hicks, Ball State Univer­sity, Room 283 Galvin Life Science Auditorium. 
' 

CAMPUS 
7 p.m. Intervarsity Christian Fellowship Bible Study, Room 317 Lewis Hall. 
8 p.m. SMC Music Department Graduate· Artist series presents Ying Yeh, Soprano, University of Illinois, SMC Little Theatre. 
COMICS 
~------~----~ 

ADD A VERTICAL LINE 
NOW, ADD MORE LINE"S

HOW TO DRAW 
FOR HIS BODY... 
AND DOTS. SEE, HE"5

LET'S DRAW BOB, THE 
TAKING SHAPE!

WRITER OF THIS COMIC. 
0 
START WITH A 
j 

The Observer page 19 
-
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD . 
• 

ACROSS 28 The 33d U.S. 60 Sister's garb President
1 Cordon bleu 61 Finished a sky 
31 R.b.i. or e.r.a. 
dive5 Feudal peasant 
34 "-and his 9 Mother-of-pearl money. " 52-impasse (deadlocked)
14 Comedian from 36 Debt letters New Rochelle 63 January, in
37 London Zaragoza
15 Relative of etc. legislative body 16 Lubricated 41 Pinna 64 Locale 
42 Preface 43 White House 
17 The Tentmaker 65 Soaks, as flax 
18 Bahn preceder 66 Coe or Cram 
worry19 Group of three 

67 Give attention to 20 Busy depot in 
44 Snoop 
45 Strauss's "-68 Endure, in
London 

Heiden Ieben" Edinburgh23 American's main 
46 Raced 
course 

49 Constellation 24A Siouan called "the Altar" DOWN 25 "-1 Yarrh! Grr! 50 CBS newscaster 
1 Spice for baked 
Arrh!": Kipling 

54 Where to see ham 27 Genetic material Lord Nelson 
2 Surround 3 Make into law 4 "-,justice
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
and the • American way": Superman's credo 
5 Man with a brand 
21 Above, 33 Ethereal, in 51 Western 6 Small case 
poetically poesy 52 Emulate Jesse 7Pro-22 Like a­35 Charge Jackson bricks 53 Like Jupiter's 
8 Ziegfeld and 38 Part of B.T.O. Andy Capp's 26 Wears atmosphere
39 Asian sheep 
wife 27 Dormitory areas 54 Oates novel 40 G.O.P. group 
91nnoway 28 Employ 55 Indian princess 29 Kind of jerk 56 Arne oratorio 
47 Tacked up, as a10--air missile bill
30 Ivory source 57 Knife wound 11 Cato's 152 
31 Part of a fire 48 Marquand's "H. 58 "I cannot tell ~:....j.::.+;;-~12Vegas escape M. Pulham, alternative 
32"-she 59 Communion, ..::..L:...:..L.=..J..:....J 13 Garden spot blows!" 49 Blazing e.g. 




--~-------~ 
The Observer I Mike Moran Junior Andy Radenbaugh and three teammates-March 16-18. The team finished the season ranked -Jerry Durso, Chris Geneser and Pat Boyd--will 18th in the nation--the program's highest ranking represent the Notre Dame wrestling team in the ever. NCAA Tournament in Ok lahoma City, Okla., 
Sports
page 20 

Four ND wrestlers prepare for NCAAs 
By GREG SCHECKENBACH Sports Writer 

The time has come for the big tournament, the tourna­ment to end all tournaments, the NCAA Wrestling Tourna­ment. 
Notre Dame will send four representatives to Oklahoma City, Okla. for what promises to be the most exciting tourna­ment in years. What makes this tournament so different from past ones is that it may not be dominated by Iowa, but by a new power, Arizona State. 
The Sun Devils were vic­torious in last year's tourna­ment, ending a nine -year dynasty by Iowa. Ironically, Iowa was the runner-up in the tourney last year and is ex­pected to challenge again this year. Currently, they are the top-ranked team in the country and are very proud of it. 
"Even though most people don't win a national champion­ship in their lifetime, I got pretty used to it," stated Iowa Coach Dan Gable on winning 
It's time again for March Madness 
It's hard to believe, but it's NCAA Tournament time again. 
This is heaven for hardcore zealots cheering on perennial contenders (like Indiana and Georgetown fans), passive fol­lowers of a regional favorite (like Notre Dame fans) and sports junkies with ESPN (like me). 
And, of course, I have some views on exactly how things will transpire. If you're like me, you've been approached by 

Pete Skiko 
Sports Writer 
inside information could prove to be financially redeeming. 
First Round Upsets--If you go strictly according to the seeds, I think we could see quite a few big names fall early. I'll start with my Upset Special. In the Southeast Regional, No. 14 Middle Tennessee State will defeat Florida State. That's right. These are two very similar teams, more similar than people know. Chris Rainey of the Blu10 Raiders (19 ppg) is one of the most underrated guards in the country and Florida State will be looking ahead. 
Also in the Southeast, look for No. 11 South Alabama to upend No. 6 Alabama and No. 10 Iowa State to destroy No. 7 UCLA. Although I can't quite pick them to upset, watch Xavier against Michigan and Providence against Virginia. Both games will be much closer than their seeds indicate. 
While there really isn't anything glaring in the Midwest Regional, I like No. 9 Ball State (28-2, best record in Division 
l) to beat No. 8 Pittsburgh in a close one. Creighton will certainly cover the 13 and a half points Missouri is giving them, and the Florida-Colorado State game should go down to the wire, with Colorado State having the slight edge. Pat Durham of the Rams is a bonafide first round draft pick that no one has heard of. 
In the East Regional, as we all know, the Irish play Van­derbilt. Those of you who followed Peerless Prognosticators during the football season know that I wasn't afraid to pick against the Irish in a select few games. Let's say this: if Fredrick plays, Notre Dame will win by three, if he doesn't, Vandy will win by three. It's that close on paper. Both teams aren't playing especially well right now, which favors the Commodores if Fredrick isn't around to provide stretch-run leadership. 
nine consecutive national titles. 
Head Coach Fran McCann and the Irish wrestlers will try to put a dent in Gable's confi­dence. All indications are that Notre Dame has an excellent chance of cracking the top­twenty in one of the most com­petitive tournaments in college athletics. 
"We are capable of placing in the top-twenty if we concen­trate mentally," said McCann, who is still upset about the voting procedure in the recent Western Regionals where two Irish wrestlers were left out of the National Tournament. 
Representing Notre Dame will be seniors Jerry Durso, Chris Geneser, and Pat Boyd along with junior Andy Raden­baugh. All of them, except for Boyd, have prior National Tournament experience. 
Radenbaugh, who is making his second straight tourney ap­pearance, has Notre Dame's best record this year at 35-8. He needs four wins to break the Irish single season record for victories held by teammate 

Durso. Last year, Radenbaugh Radenbaugh qualified for the bowed out of the tournament in NCAA's by earning an at-large the first round and is expected bid at the Western Regionals to improve this year. where he was runner-up at 118 pounds. The loss was unex­
"Rad has a tough, tough time pected because, as a sopho­against ranked guys, but I feel more, Radenbaugh won the this time around he could pos­118-pound division with sibly place," said McCann. relative ease. "The ability is there, he just And then there is the creme 
needs to prepare mentally." of the crop, Jerry Durso and 
Boyd strives to be 'top doa' 
142-pound senior takes 21-5 record into his first N~AAs 
By GREG excited about it." SCHECKENBACH Thus far, Boyd's career has Sports Writer been very successful, compil­
ing an overall record of 74-30-1, 
To become 'top dog,' one but has yet to smell sweet vic­must knock off the big kid on tory in the big tournament. In-the block. 
That is exactly what senior Pat Boyd plans to do in the up­coming NCAA Wrestling Tournament to be held this weekend in Oklahoma City, Okla. For Boyd, this is the first time he has had a chance to wrestle in the National Tourn­ament. Boyd, who has a record of 21-5, placed second in the Western Regionals at 142 pounds, and was voted into the Nationals with an at-large bid. Being the first time competing 

Pat Boyd

in the tournament, Boyd was definitely thrilled with his en­juries have kept him from qual­trance. ifying for the NCAA's in both 
"It has been a very long wait his sophomore and junior year. for me to make Nationals," "The injuries have really stated Boyd. "This is a chance bothered me over the years, of a lifetime and I'm extremely but they come with the sport,'' 
NCAA Tournament may 'revitalize' Sooners after poor performances 
Associated Press 

Billy Tubbs has a new theory. 
So what if his Oklahoma Sooners, ranked No. 1 for much of the season, stumbled through the Big Eight tourna­ment, losing in the finals to Missouri? they had nothing to gain by winning it anyway. 
"You're talking about some­thing that revitalizes everybody," said Tubbs, whose fourth-ranked Sooners begin play in the NCAA tournament Thursday. "We're playing Southern Conference, the No. 16 seed in the Southeast Regional to Oklahoma's No. 1. The game, which will be played in Nashville, Tenn., is one of 16 first-round matchups Thursday as college basket­ball's three-week champion­ship festival begins. Sixteen more will be played Friday. 
Most of Thursday's games on the surface appear one-sided. Three of the four top seeds are in action, with only second­ranked Georgetown, No. 1 in the East, off until Friday. 
Morris in another matchup of No. 1 and No. 16, this one in the West. 
On the same card at Boise, St. Mary's plays Clemson; Memphis State plays DePaul and No. 15 Nevada-Las Vegas plays Idaho, which will have the advantage of being the local favorite. 
In addition to the Oklahoma­East Tennessee game, Sout­heast games in Nashville in­clude LaSalle vs. Louisiana Tech; Virginia vs. Providence and No. 16 Florida State said Boyd. "I'm very thankful that I have been able to recover completely from them." 
This year, Boyd was, once again, injured. He sustained a knee injury half way through the season, but stated that his knee is at 100 percent for the tournament. 
"My knee hasn't bothered me at all for about a month and I don't expect it to bother me this weekend," said Boyd. 
Boyd, who hails from Mt. Pleasant, Mich., has a prep record book that is a mile long. In high school, he compiled an overall record of 168-1 includ­ing 143 consecutive victories, which is a national prep record. Also, Boyd is a member of the Amateur Sports Hall of Fame located in Johnstown, Pa. 
Boyd has won numerous tournaments over his four years at Notre Dame. He won 
see BOYD, page 15 
Chris Geneser, who are cur­rently one and two on the all­time list for total career vic­tories. Also, both are making their third straight NCAA Tournament in as many years. Geneser has only wrestled in one tournament because of in­juries at the end of the year, 
see NCAAs, page 16 
against new people, and that No. 1 Arizona, banished to against Middle TennesseeAlso in the East, No. 10 Tennessee will beat No. 7 West gets everyone's attention." Boise, Idaho, from its home in State, another underdogVirginia. South Carolina could beat N.C. State but probably 
The new lJeople in this case Tucson because of a new policy playing near home. see TOURNEY, page 18 are from East Tennessee State, that keeps teams off their 
see HOOPS, page 15
tournament champions of the homecourts, takes on Robert 



