
VOL. XXII, NO. 128 THURSDAY, APRIL 27, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE PAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


Frocking ceremony The Observer/Heleni Korwek 
Col. Hanson and Cadet Col. Chellie Cameron award Cadet Eric Fick during the 1989 spring Air Force 
awards ceremony. The ceremony occurs before every change of command. 
Takeshita's aid kills himself 
Associated Press 
TOKYO--Prime Minister Noboru Takeshita, shattered politically and shaken by the suicide of his longtime aide, worked Wednesday to find a successor untouched by the money scandal that ruined his career. 
An aide to former Prime Min­ister Takeo Miki said senior politician Masayoshi Ito was "certain" to be chosen by Takeshita and other governing party leaders. Ito, 75, has a clean reputation and served briefly in 1980 as acting prime minister. 
Takeshita met with Shintaro Abe, secretary general of the governing Liberal Democrats, and agreed to choose a new party leader and prime mini­ster after Japan's April29-May 

Teacher 
By CINDY PETRITES 
Staff Reporter 
Editor's note: This is the first ofa two-part series on Teacher Course Evaluations. 
It's time for the Spring Teacher Course Evaluations, the semiannual process giving students the opportunity to evaluate their professors. 
Notre Dame faculty have 
been distributing the green 
TCE forms in many classes for 
more than fifteen years. 
Though most students fill out 
the forms, many are unaware 
of how TCE's are used and why 
they are important. 
TCE's perform a three-fold function, said Provost Timothy O'Meara. Their primary func­tion is to provide teachers a chance for self-evaluation and improvement. They also give students input into future classes, and the administration 6 "Golden Week" holidays end. 
The normally unflappable prime minister appeared shaken following the suicide Wednesday of Ihei Aoki, 58, an aide since 1958 and the man who handled Takeshita's scandal-tainted political dona­tions. 
"I strongly regret (his ac­tion)," Takeshita told reporters. "We walked side by side for over 30 years." 
Aoki, ~ho had served Takes­hita since 1958, was found dead Wednesday in his Tokyo apart­ment. Police said he had slashed a wrist and an ankle with a razor and hanged him­self after leaving notes to his wife and several other people, including Takeshita. Police declined to reveal the notes' contents. 
Takeshita said he had not seen Aoki's note, but thought it was possible the suicide was linked to the stock-profiteering and bribery scandal. 
Aoki's name, not Takes­hita's, appeared on loans and share dealings with the Recruit Co. that are under suspicion both for political ethics and bribery. The company, an in­formation services con­glomerate, is accused of trying to buy influence with politicians, bureaucrats, busi­ness leaders and media execu­tives. 
Takeshita announced Tues­day he would step down to take responsibility for the scandal. 
Takeshita had told Parlia­ment on April 11 that he had received more than $1 million in political donations from Recruit, but he did not mention the loan. 

CO·ED HOUSING 


Mixed views on co-ed housing 
By KELLEY TUTHILL and JOHN ZALLER 
Staff Reporters 
Editors note: This is the third in a three part series on coeducational housing. 
While many students are in favor of co-ed housing, many rectors, Administra­tors and alumni approach the idea more cautiously. 
Dr. Ann Firth, director of residence life, believes the issue of co-ed housing "is not a simple issue. There needs to be much discussion among students, adminis­trators, faculty, parents, and alumni." 
"This is an issue that needs to be weighed very carefully," added Firth. Last year, Firth chaired a task force set up to investi­gate the possibilities of coresidential housing at Notre Dame. The task force examined the strengths and weaknesses of many facets of residence life, dividing it into three categories: Per­sonnel, Residential Environ­ment, and Physical Facilities, according to the task force report. 
The final report issued by the task force suggested a committee be organized to further investigate the pos­sibilities of co-ed housing. 
Referring to the Observer survey on co-ed housing, Firth believes that the stu­dents desire for co-ed housing was greater than their desire to actually par­ticipate in it. 
Firth thinks that an ex­perimental co-ed hall might be a good indicator towards the future of co-ed housing at Notre Dame. "I'm not sure that, right now, we have the physical facilities to ac­comodate co-ed housing." Firth said. "Any type of co­ed housing must be under­taken within context of the guidelines of the Univer­sity," added Firth. 
Pat Doran, associate director of residence life, said student involvement might be important to the fu­ture of co-ed housing. "If there were sufficient student demand, further investiga­tion would be made, but there wouldn't automati­cally be co-ed housing. The administration would have to look deeper into it," said Doran. 
Sister Maureen Minihane, rector of Siegfried Hall said, "I don't have a problem with the idea." She believes that coresidential housing would be healthy for the students. As she sees it, the dorm is already half male half female during the day right now. 
Minihane said that in a 
dorm like Siegfried that is 
"L-shaped" co-ed by sec­
tions or wings could con­
cievably work. She said that 
she is happy with the set-up 
right now, but she would like 
it if the dorm went co-ed. 
"The rector situation would have to be changed," if a dorm went co-ed, said Minihane. She would be in favor of a male and a female rector in each dorm. The rules and parietals would remain, said Minihane. 
Father Thomas King, rec­tor of Zahm hall thinks co-ed 

see co-ED I page 7 
TEACHER COURSE EVALUATIONS 

Evaluations have three-fold purpose 
a criterion on which to judge faculty for promotion, reap­pointment, and tenure. 
"They are intended to be both an evaluative and diagnostic tool," said David Leege, pro­fessor of Government and In­ternational Studies, head of a faculty committee· to reevaluate the form, process, and uses of the TCE's six years ago. The Provost-appointed committee both examined forms from other universities and performed· two kinds of analyses to suggest modifica­tions. Specifically, they looked for more effective ways of wor­ding questions to elicit useful student responses and alter­nate ways of evaluating fac­ulty. 
Their biggest concern was to try to separate teaching effec­tiveness from what constituted merely "an interesting course," said Leege. With the recommended changes, they concluded that TCE's were a "reasonably effective" way of measuring faculty perfor­mance. 

Their recommendations led to substantial changes in the original TCE forms which gave professors grades for their per­formance on the 4.0 scale. The revised form now allows stu­dents to express their satisfac­tion in specific course areas and the degree to which they feel improvement is needed. 
TCE's not only allow faculty members the chance to find out what students think, they also play a role in determining pro­fessors' chances for reappoint­ment, promotion, and tenure. While the written evaluations are returned to professors for their individual use, the com­puterized forms are part of a larger process. 
After the TCE's leave stu-the Provost. With the Presi­dent hands, the Social Science dent's approval, they resassess Training and Research Lab the faculty member's employ­compiles the results and trans-ment status. fers them to individual faculty Though they are significant, members, deans and chairmen TCE's are only one factor de­of their respective colleges, termining whether a professor and the Provost. is tenured or terminated. "No 
If the faculty member is up single person or group can play for promotion, TCE sum-God in this, said O'Meara, "and maries will then become part that's how it should be." If a of the professor's "promotion teacher does get a series of bad package," together with a TCE's, the department chair­statement on the tenure situa--man will call the faculty mem­tion in the department, rna-ber in to discuss what's going terial submitted by the faculty on and what changes can be member, a list of all evaluators made to reverse the trend. approached, all evaluation let-From there, it is up to the pro­ters of the candidate's scholar-fessor to act on the input. ship. For women candidates, "TCE's are just one of the in­the most recent report of Aca-puts we receive conc~rning a demic Affirmative Action teacher helping to form the Committee and comparative mosaic." decision rates is also included. Other inputs include reports This package is then evaluated of the individual's reputation by a committee of the depart­ment chairman and deans and see TCE I page 4 

The Observer Thursday, April 27, 1989 
~age 2 
ALMANAC 

On April 27: e In 1509: Pope Julius II ex­communicated the Italian state of 
Venice. e In 1865: The steamer "Sultana" exploded on the Mississippi 
River near Memphis, killing more than 1,400 Union prisoners of war. e In 1937: The ;nation's first 
Social Security checks were dis­
tributed. e In 1982: The trial of John Hinckley Jr., who shot President Rea­gan, began in Washington. 
e Ten Years Ago: In an ex­change between the U.S. and the Soviet Union, five political and religious dissidents were released from Soviet custody in return for the release of two 
Soviet spies from U.S. custody. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for Wed., April 26, 1989 


Dow Jones 
Industrial Average 
+2.20 
Closed at 2389.11 

Question: How do you reach over 12,000 people daily? Answer: Buy Observer ad space. Call 239-6900. 
S&P 500 i}o.18 to 306.93 Currency exchange Mark "'(t.0129 to 1.8796 DMI$ Yen f-.o.36to131.10¥1$ Pound -t-.01 00 to 1.6890 $1£ 
Precious Metals Gold +$0.40 to $385.30 I oz. Silver+ 3.2¢ to $5.763 I oz. 
Source: Prudential Bache Securities 


Design Editor ......................... Karen Newlove Design Assistant.................... Beth Peterson Typesetters.............. Bernard Brenninkmeyer . ........................................................ Chris Malin 
News Editor ............................... Kelley Tuthill Copy EdHor ............................ Janice O"Leary

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Sports Copy Editor .................•. Frank Pastor 
VIewpoint Copy Editor ................ Kim Skiles 

(219) 239-7471 VIewpoint Layout..................... Alison Cocks Accent Editor.......................... Coleen Cronin Accent Copy Editor.................. MaH Murphy Typists ........................................... Will Zamer . ................................................... Diana Bradley 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through F11day except NO Day Editor............... Margaret McCloskey during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the SMC Day Editor ....•....•........ Rozel Gaitmatain UmverSity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary"s College. Subscnptions may be pur· Photographer .......................... Heleni Korwek chased for 540 per year (525 per semester) by writing The Observer 
Ads Designers..................... Shannon Roach ................................. Mindy Breen

The Observer rs a member of The Assocrated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
WORLD BRIEFS 


Students should confront world issues 
President Mikhail Gorbachev said in a speech released Wednesday that shortages of housing, food and consumer goods are growing despite his reforms, and he blamed runaway gov­ernment spending and Soviets who "forgot how to work." "The food problem is far from solved," Gorbachev said in one of his frankest admissions of the Soviet Union's problems. "The housing problem is acute. There is a dearth of consumer goods in the shops. The list of shortages is growing. The state's financial position is grave." 
A strong earthquake struck Mexico City and Acapulco on Tuesday, cracking buildings and an aqueduct, shattering glass and panicking thousands of people who remembered the killer quake of 1985. One man was electrocuted when power cables fell on him, and two women were seriously injured when they jumped in panic from the second story of a swaying building during the 8:26a.m. quake, officials said. 
Officials have launched a criminal investigation into the use of tear gas by soldiers who rushed thousands of people demonstrating for independence in Soviet Georgia, a Foreign Ministry spokesman said Wednesday. But the spokesman, Vadim Perfiliev, denied that tear gas or any other chemical substance used by the soldiers killed anyone in the April 9 clash in the southern republic's capital of Tbilisi. Officials in Moscow have confirmed only that tear gas was used, but doctors treating in­jured protesters in Tbilisi said they were suffering from a paralysis of the central nervous system caused by an unidentified chemical substance. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 

Parental rights could betaken away from an Indianapolis woman who plead guilty to tying her toddler son up, placing him in a suitcase and leaving him in a car as she left town, prosecutors said Tuesday. Prosecutors say they cannot prove Portia Murray, 22, tried to murder her son, therefore a charge of attempted murder will be dismissed. Her son, Tyler, was 9 months old at the time of the incident on Sept. 9, 1988. She pleaded guilty Tues­day to the felony charges of confinement and neglect of a depen­dent. 
INDIANA BRIEFS 


I can't help but express infinite admiration for the student protestors in China. 
I am not writing a sales pitch for the "Great cause of universal democracy." Nor am I a particular fan of the violence that erupted during the demonstration. 
What I admire about this group of students is that they embody what I feel is the true meaning of the term "university student." 
They've gone beyond the standard conven­tions of the word, in the sense that we, as Americans, apply it--in addition to possessing enough energy to light the city of Manhattan, in addition to celebrating a brief period of time in which they can combine independence of con­stant parental input with an element of carefree irresponsibility, and in addition to planning the next party--these students are involved in their world. 
This involvement extends beyond the issues affecting them as students. They are aware of the more pressing issues of their society, and are unafraid, even eager, to make others take notice of their views. 
In the overall scheme of things, 150,000 stu­dents cannot expect to move mountains easily. Nor can they expect to change the Chinese gov­ernment overnight. I'd be willing to place bets that they realize that. The fact that they are not assured of success makes me admire them all the more. They had the guts to speak up and say what many were probably thinking. And they did so as a minority. 
If there is one regret I have about the type of place I selected to spend the "best four years of my life," it's the self-contained nature of the Notre Dame environment. It is not my intention to spend the remainder of this column dwelling on the old issue of what South Bend may or may not have to offer. I have been happy here, and given the choice to do it again, I wouldn't do anything differently. But I find that I'm too tempted to use the escape that this self­containedness provides. 
It is all to easy to become embroiled in the concerns of such a small cross-section of the world. Years from now I will reflect upon some Indiana rocker John Cougar Mellencamp says reports that he obtained a court order to bar a radio station from playing cuts off his soon-to-be-released album are lies. Mellencamp says he has no problem with publicity. "I'm used to people exploiting my name. But if they're going to make up lies about me, at least make up something I can tolerate." Last Wednesday, In­dianapolis radio station WFBQ stopped playing cuts off the "Big Daddy" album, which won't be officially released until May 4, when it got a call from Mellencamp's record company, Polygram. 
OF INTEREST 
CAMPUS BRIEFS 

The Department of Chemistry at the University of Notre Dame will become the Department of Chemistry and Bioc­hemistry next academic year, the institution's Academic Council has decided. The change will reflect the sizable teaching and research facilities in biochemistry at Notre Dame. The depart­ment will also offer a new bachelor's degree program in bioc­hemistry and a graduate program of study and research in bioc­hemistry leading to master's and doctoral degrees. 
WEATHER 


Feel the heat 
Partly cloudy today with a 30 percent chance of thunderstorms. Highs in the middle 80s. Fair tonight. Lows in the middle 60s. Partly sunny Friday with a 40 percent chance of thun­derstorms. Highs from 80 to 85. 
Shakespeare Film Festival presents Henry the Eighth in the Architecture Auditorium at 8 p.m. tonight. 
Annual Army ROTC awards ceremony will be held today at 4:30p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
Semester around the world foreign study program is accepting late applications through today. Call Cy Pullapilly at 284-4468, 272-0889, or 284-4474 for more information. 
Senior Citizens need visitors in the fall. Anyone interested in the elderly visitation pro­gram should contact Kathy Royer at the CSC at 239-5293. 
Yearbooks are being distributed today and Friday from noon to 4 p.m. between Washington and Cavanaugh Halls. Student ID's must be pre­sented. 
'College is the time and place to make waves. Now is the time for us to be 
Youthful Idealists.' 
Alison Cocks Production Manager 

of the issues that seem so earth-shattering now and wonder what I thought was so horrible. I can't help but think that it would be worthwhile to be like those students in Beijing and be able to tell my children that not only did I do some crazy things when I was a student, but I was a member of a group who confronted an issue and weren't afraid to express their displeasure with it. 
My parents would probably refer to this type of thinking as "youthful idealism." Youthful idealism will fade into adult realism as soon as I wake up in the morning and realize that I can't change the world, they say. Maybe I can't, but confronting something of significance to a large number of people will teach me more about the world then retreating into a conser­vative shell at a young age and waiting for the right career to fall into my lap. 
College is the time and place to make waves. Now is the time for us to be 'youthful idealists.' We are young enough and inexperienced enough to need the intellectual development that a career in idealism provides. Those students in China are students in every sense of the word. They are attempting to take a concept that many of them have probably only read about and apply it to their lives. They have also reached out and siezed the world, instead of waiting for it to come to them. I admire them for not only confronting the challenges of life, but for allowing life to challenge them. 
All of us at Notre Dame are capable of being students. Not just of Math 126, but of a world that we must confront if we are to truly become a part of it. 
NDE end of the year picnic and mass will begin at 4 p.m. at the Fatima Retreat Center. 
Le Cercle Francais presents "Jean de Florette" in the Annenberg Auditorium Friday at 7:30p.m. followed by a meeting in the South Lounge of Walsh Hall. 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center untill p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest announces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lecture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submitted materi­als and determine if and where announcements will be published. -The Observer 
Information compiled from Observer wires and Observer staff reports. 
Thursday, April 27, 1989 The Observer page 3 

SMC hall presidents elected 
Special to The Observer 
Molly Bringardner, election 

commissioner,  reported  the  
following  Saint  Mary's  hall  
elections results:  

LeMans will have a run-off election on Monday between the Colleen McCarthy ticket, which received 25 percent, and the Liz Lieske ticket with 46 percent. Megan Welter had 21 percent of the vote and Step­hanie Lochmann had five per­cent. 
By KELLEY.TUTHILL 
Senior Staff RepOrter 
Two Saint Mary's students reported that a man was standing naked on Saint Mary's road on Monday night. 
The women were walking down Saint Mary's road near Holy Cross Cemetery when they observed a white male standing in front of them on the north side of thEf road wearing no clothes at 9:15p.m~ Monday, said Phil Johnson, assistant director 
of security. · · %. ·· 
The women fled the scene 


ALLIED HEALTH 
Holy Cross will also have a run-off between Kerry Burke, who received 37 percent of the vote, and Jenny Rolfes, 36 per­cent. Lori Johnson and Heather McGilliveray each received eight percent of the vote. 
In McCandless, Suzy Smith won the election with 52 percent of the vote over Kristen Schultz who received 44 percent. 
Augusta will also have a run­off between Kathy Sullivan, 41 percent, and Nancy Haske, 34 



PROFESSIONALS 
The Air Force can make you an attractive offer-out­standing compensation plus opportunities for professional development. You can have a challenging practice a~d tim~ to spend with your fam1ly while you serve your country. Find out what the Air Force offers. Call 
also 
CAPT CULHANE 317-848-5830 COLLECT 

ran and received 20 percent of the vote. 
Regina will have a run-off be­tween Maureen Lowry, 35 per­cent, and Katrina Lentych, 29 percent. Cathy Fisher received 20 percent of the vote and Brigid Brooks received 15 per­cent. 
The were a large number of tickets who ran, according to Bringardner. She also said that voter turn-out was good. Run­off elections will all take place on Monday. 
to Jobnsop., the 
described .. as 
brown hair and 
30's. The women 
appeared older 
college student. . 
·one-Week leningrad & Moscow 

Council Trawl 

t-------------------------------------1 


WANT TO MAKE IT EASY FORA CROOK? 
I Prop open that exterior self-locking door. You never know who may want to come i~. 
I Don't bother to lock your room when you leave for class. 
I Save time-leave all your money and jewelry out on the dresser, easy to find. 
I Act like the Lone Ranger. Don't get to know the other people living near you. 
I Advertise. Leave a note on the door to let everyone know that you're not there. 
I Be generous. Share your keys, ID, and driver's license with the whole world. 
I Leave your blinds open and lights on at night so it's easy to see in.  
This message from the Notional Crime Prevention Council mode possible by a generousgran! from MasterCard lnlernolionol  NOTRE DAME CRIME STOPPER  

•




Tom bar rece1ves Truman Award 
By KERRY SCANLON 
News Staff 

Frederick Tombar has been announced as the recipient of this year's Harry 
S. Truman Scholarship. 
Tombar will be awarded $7000 for his outstanding achievement in public service at the federal, state, and local levels. 
On April 19th, the Board of Trustees of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Founda­tion announced the 92 college students who will be awarded the 1989 Truman Scholarship on May 7th. 
Each recipient will receive an annual maxium stipend of $7,000 per year for the last two years of college and two years of graduate study. According to the Harry S. Truman Scholar­ship Foundation, the awards are granted to promising stu­dents who have demonstrated a firm commitment to a career in public service at the federal, state, or local levels. 
The scholarship program is now in its thirteenth year, and makes one new scholarship available annually to a student from each state. Each of the 13 Regional Review Panels recommends up to three addi­tional scholars for considera­tion to be "Scholars-at-Large." Thirty-nine additional scholars recommended were confirmed by the Board of Trustees early this week. 
Tombar is a sophomore gov­ernment major and intends to enter law school after gradua­tion. He applied for the award through the University after noticing a sign for it on a hall bulletin boards. His mother had just lost her job and told him to look out for outside scholarships. When Tombar told his mother he had won the award she immediately asked if he thanked God for it. "It's a Godsend. I can thank God for what He has done for me," said Tombar. Tombar added that receiving the award was "such a relief because he had been waiting since October." 
Tombar had to first fill out an application in order to be 
nominated by the University. Once his nomination was con­firmed he spent about a month working intensely on his essay entitled: "The Black Male: An Endangered Species." His es­say covered the problems he thinks the black male faces, and government solutions and policies to these problems. 
Tombar also discussed such things as money allocated to the prison system verses the Head Start program. He also stressed the value of education for young people. 
Tombar had read several of books by Jwenza Kunjufu and one, "The Conspiracy to Destroy Black Boys", provided him with some ideas for his es­say. 
He spent several days looking for important facts and statistics and met with Fred Wright, director of black studies to help prepare him for the interview process. 
Tombar went to SMU over spring break to complete the interview. It was a 25 minute process with a panel of judges that were politicians and pro­fessors. 
According to Tombar, "It wasn't the money as much as seeing how others could see he had potential to be a leader." 
Tombar is a member of the Multicultural Executive Coun­cil, Notre Dame Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble, the speech and debate team, and was recently elected Grace Hall President. 
Last summer he worked for the City Council in his hometown of New Orleans and this summer hopes to work for State Senator William Jeffer­son. 
Tombar says that "Politics and law is the best way to bring beneficial changes to our soci­ety." 
"The Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation was established by an act of Congress as the nation's living memorial to our 33rd Presiden­tand reflects his strong belief in education as a bulwark of freedom," said Elmer Staats, chairman of the Board of the Scholarship program. 
This year Notre Dame nominated three students and for the first time in the Univer­sity's history, all three were chosen as semi-finalists. 
-
-
-


Your 
page 4 



Researchers to prove cold fusion 
Associated Press world who have attempted to achieve fusion for 25 years 
WASHINGTON--Two re­using multimillion-dollar mac­searchers who say they've hines. mastered fusion, the process The hearing was jammed that powers the sun and the with journalists, scientists and stars, told Congress Wednes­industrial representatives anx­day they will duplicate their ex­ious to learn more about a re­periments for government action that some predict could scientists in hopes of quieting produce plentiful electric skeptics. power with little environmen­
"We have 19 experiments tal pollution or threat. being set up now," University Pons told the committee how of Utah chemist Stanley Pons he and Fleischmann had in­told the House Science Com­serted electrodes of platinum mittee, including a demonstra­and palladium in a flask con­tion of room-temperature fu­taining deuteriam oxide, or sion for scientists from the Los heavy water. Electrical cur­Alamos National Laboratory. rent was applied to the 
Pons said the federal scien­platinum electrode, Pons said, 
tists will monitor the experi­forcing deuterium atoms into 
ment at Utah, then dismantle the crystal lattice of the pal­
it and take it to the national ladium. 
laboratory in New Mexico for 

further tests. He said that after the experi­
ment ran for several hours, the 
Pons and his collaborator, deuterium became com­Martin Fleischmann, of the pressed and fused, giving off University of South Hampton in heat almost four times as great 
~ 
England, are making the ar­as the energy the experiment rangement to silence some of had consumed. the skepticism about their claim to have discovered a way Fleischmann said that in one to achieve fusion using ordi­endeavor researchers 
nary lab equipment assembled succeeded in causing water to on a table top. reach the boiling point. He added, however, that there was 
The two announced their dis­still much work yet to be done covery March 23, stunning nu­to develop a way of harvesting clear physicists around the useful energy from fusion. 

Temperatures soar and sound blasts as the campus band, Deadhorse, performs on Fieldhouse Mall yesterday during An Tostal '89. 

Security apprehends youth 
By KELLEY TUTHILL ity to report the incident, said roll Hall. The youth was taken Senior Staff Reporter Phil Johnson, assistant director to the Security office and iden­of security. The youth dropped tified. He was later released in 
A resident of Carroll Hall re­the bike in the bushes on the the custody of his guardian and ported a juvenile riding a South West side of Carroll Hall, the case was referred to bicycle while dragging a ten­said Johnson. Parkview Juvenile Facility, speed bike behind him on Tues­said Johnson. day. Two mobile officers 
responded to the call and ap­The men's ten-speed bike At 9:20a.m. Tuesday, the stu­prehended the juvenile who was recovered in the bushes dent called Notre Dame Secur-was walking back towards Car-near Carroll, said Johnson. 

TCE 
continued from page 1 
from students and their ad­visers, and in some depart­ments, classroom visitations by peer faculty members. O'Meara added that these in­puts are generally consistent. 
Nonetheless, to better ac­count for differences in course size and content, and to make the TCE's a more accurate reflection of instructor perfor­mance O'Meara is proposing changes in the way the TCE's are evaluated. While faculty members can now compare their own results with Univer­sity, department, and college averages, O'Meara believes that establishing an additional average for each course would be a good idea. 
Each professor's perfor­mance could then be judged against the performance of other professors teaching the same course. If implemented, this would be applicable only in the larger, standard courses 
And 
FULLY FURNISHED EXECUTIVE SUITES ELEGANT & SPACIQUS 1 , 2 and 3 bedroom apartments 
Beautifully set on the St. Joseph River 5 minutes from Notre Dame Campus 

1671 Riverside Dr.@ 
CALL 233-2212 =-= 
where the text is uniform 
throughout, not in single­
section courses or in multi­
section courses which vary 
significantly among sections. 

Concerning the effectiveness of the TCE's, the Provost agrees that though they pres­ent some problems of readability, the TCE forms are a useful tool in determining what students think of their teachers. While no form is 100 percent accurate, he admitted, there is a value in having one standard TCE form for all courses : consistency. 
Though he is not closed to the idea of change, O'Meara feels that more attention should be paid to what TCE answers in­dicate and less to the wording of the questions. "If changes were made in the questions, there would be some technical improvement," he said, "but the results would largely stay the same." 
tAMERICAN CANCER 50CIE1Y11 

THURSDAY 
'Tis the Month of Our Mother 


~~ / ~ 

Y( 

Marian Devotion at the Grotto Sunday April 30, 1989 6:45pm 
Marian Hymns Rosary Benediction of the Blessed Sacra1nent 
Sponsored by the Knights of the Immaculata 
Alll'<lllll<> 

FRIDAY 
Angela always wanted to give marriage a shot. 
Buckaroo Banzai 
Showtimes: 8:00 and 1 0:15 Place: Cushing Price: $2.00 
Thursday, April 27, 1989 
The Observer 

Lucille 'Lucy' Ball dies at 77 


Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES--Lucille Ball, the daffy comedian whose harebrained schemes drove her television family crazy but delighted viewers for four decades, died Wednesday of a ruptured abdominal artery. She was 77. 
The actress, star of the hugely popular "I Love Lucy" and related situation comedies seen in more than 80 countries, had undergone major heart surgery Apljil 18. 
She had · been recovering steadily, getting out of bed and joking with the staff, but shortly before dawn Wednes­day, she went into cardiac ar­rest due to internal bleeding and could not be revived, said Cedars-Sinai Medical Center spokesman Ronald Wise. 
She suffered a complete heart failure at 5 a.m. and 47 minutes of resuscitation efforts proved fruitless, Wise said. "There was nothing to indicate this would happen," Wise said. "The heart itself apparently was not involved in Miss Ball's sudden death." 
In the 6-hour surgery at Cedars-Sinai, doctors replaced her aorta and aortic valve. Al­though the replaced portion of Miss Ball's aorta did not ap­parently fail, the entire artery was in poor condition when she was operated upon, said Dr. Robert Kass. 
Kass, who performed the op­eration, said at the time the tearing in Miss Ball's aorta 
In 1961, Miss Ball married nightclub comic Gary Morton, who became her executive producer, and remained on TV 
. for 12 more years in the weekly "Here's Lucy" and "The Lucy Show." Miss Ball was born Aug. 6, 1911, in Jamestown, N.Y., the daughter of an electrician and a concert pianist. As a model, her ads for Ches­terfield cigarettes caught Hollywood's eye, and in 1933 she went to California. She ap­peared with the Marx Brothers in "Room Service," with Fred Astaire in "Follow the Fleet" and with Katharine Hepburn and Ginger Rogers in "Stage Door." In all, she appeared in more than 75 movies. "progressed all the way down into her abdomen." Miss Ball, with her fireJ engine red hair and siren wail, was considered the queen of sit­uation comedy and a pioneer of the sitcom format. "I and 100 million others will miss her," said comedian 
George Burns. "But we haven't lost Lucille Ball because she's still with us on television and we can see her on and on." 
"Her red hair, her antics on the screen, her timing and her zest for life made her an Amer­ican institution," former Pres­ident and Nancy Reagan said in a statement. "Just the men­tion of her name brings a smile. ... We love Lucy and will miss her deeply." 
"It's a shock after working very closely with her and loving her for over 35 years," said Miss Ball's frequent sidekick, Gale Gordon, who was in Edmonton, Alberta. 
While in the hospital, the comedian was deluged with thousands of cards, letters, flowers and phone calls from fans as far away as Australia and Europe. 
Miss Ball and her late former husband, Desi Arnaz, starred in "I Love Lucy" from 1951 to 1957 and have been seen since in widely syndicated reruns. The late Vivian Vance and William Frawley played their neighbors, Fred and Ethel Mertz. 
Her split-second timing, .wide-mouthed wails and exag­gerated pratfalls made the "I Love Lucy" show one of the most popular in television his­
tory. 
Father kills son by unhooking life-support system 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO--A father tear­fully unhooked his comatose baby son's life-support system early Wednesday, then took him into his arms and kept hospital workers at gunpoint until the child was dead, aut­horities said. 
I'll only hurt you if you try to plug my baby back in," police quoted Rudy Linares as saying. 
"You can understand the mo­tivation," police Sgt. William Rooney said. "I guess he didn't want his child to continue living under those conditions." 
The painter from west subur­ban Cicero was charged with son, Samuel, said Lisa Howard, spokeswoman for the Cook County state's attorney's of­fice. 
Linares, 23, was held at a police lockup pending an ap­pearance in bond court. His wife, Tamara, who said the couple had planned to see a lawyer Friday about having disconnected, was not charged. 
"This is the best thing," Mrs. Linares told radio station WBBM-AM. "Sammy is out of his misery." 
The couple have two other children, both under 5. 
Linares also unhooked his son's life support system on Dec. 30 but staff members Bulava said. When Linares ar­rived early Wednesday, he spoke briefly with security per­sonnel but was not searched, Bulava added. · 
Doctors had notified the par­ents Tuesday that the child was to be transferred to a long-term care unit, said Rush­Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medi­


It took Galileo 16 years to master the universe. You have one night. 
It seems unfair. The genius had all that time. While you have afew 
short hours to learn your sun spots from your satellites before the 
dreaded astronomy exam. 
On the other hand, Vivarin gives you the definite advantage. It helps keep you awake and mentally alert for hours. Safely and conveniently. So even when the subject matter's dull, your mind will stay razor sharp. 
If Galileo had used Vivarin, maybe he could have mastered the solar system faster, too. 
Revive with VIVARIN: 

-------~-------­

,. 
'~ 
• 








REDUCED 
Prices have been cut up to 16°/o on: 

~acUntoshm Plus ~acUntoshm SE• 
Take a Macintosh homefor the summer and have a head start in thefalU 
For more information, please contact: 
Notre Dame Computer Store Office ofUniversity Computing Computer/Math Building Room 25 8:00am-5:00PM 239-7477 
Apple Computer, Inc. ti®The power to be your best.m 
•Prices reduced on the Se Floppy and Se/HD 20 model only 
Thursday, April 27, 1989 The Observer page 7 
Abortion Patients 
Anti-abortionists plead case 
A statistical breakdown based on a survey of 9,480 women who had abortions in 1987 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON--Abortion opponents led by the Bush ad­ministration urged the Su­preme Court Wednesday to overturn its landmark 1973 ruling that women have a con­stitutional right to end their pregnancies. 
Outside, police arrested 27 abortion-rights activists, among a noisy crowd of people demonstrating on both sides of one of the the nation's most divisive issues. Those arrested were charged with crossing a police line. 
In sharp contrast, the hour-long argument session took place in a packed but hushed courtroom. 
"The United States asks this court to reconsider and over­rule its decision in Roe v. Wade," said Harvard law pro­fessor Charles Fried, referring to the ruling that legalized abortion. 
But Frank Susman, a St. Louis lawyer representing those who successfully chal­lenged an abortion-limiting Missouri law in lower courts, argued, "There can be no or­dered liberty for women with-
source: The Alan Guttmacher Institute survey, 1987 API R. Dominguez out control over their . . . 

------~~------------~~--_;c,:,:h,:,:il~db;,;e;;,;a~r.:;in;;,:ig~.-"....,-----_;;s~ou;;;;r~i..di;;;;'~sp~u;;;,;t;,;;e,;.,.;;g::a.:.ve~l,;,;;it,;;;;tl~e..:i:n:dl:..·-_thirsty regulations," he said. 

• ed
C0 
continued from page 1 
housing "is a viable option in collegiate living and it has pos­sibilities at Notre Dame." 
"It doesn't surprise me," said King that the majority of students are in favor of co-ed housing as shown in the Obser­ver survey. "I think that there is a possibility that co-ed housing would improve rela­tions between men and women at Notre Dame, but I'm not sure that is the problem." Ac­cording to King some other problems might be that stu­dents are more concerned with 
Environmental mosquito management and aquatic weed control contractor has 80 positions open beginning in May. Gain valuable, professional work experience. 
1989 Positions Still Open!!! 
Base  Gross  
Night Crew Spray Techs.  $5.75  $4,000  
Field Inspectors  $5.50  $3,500  
Day Crew Spray Techs.  $5.50+  $3,500+  

For more· information contact Bob Zanko or Clark Wood at your earliest convenience. 

CLARKE OUTDOOR SPRAYING CO. 159 N. Garden Ave. • P.O. Box 72288 Roselle, Illinois 60172 
CALL TOLL FREE 1-800-942-2555 (IL ONLY) 1-800-323-5727 (OUTSIDE IL) 
academics or the fact that many Notre Dame students come from single sex high schools. 
Sister Riordan, rector of Walsh Hall, believes less stu­dents would be willing to actu­ally participate in co-ed housing than those who say they are for it. "There are two 
Missouri Attorney General William Webster urged the court to restore the state's abortion regulations even if it does not reverse the broader 1973 decision, which was based on women's privacy rights. 
Fried, a former Justice De-· partment official called back to government duty for Wednes­day's session, argued, "We are not asking the court to unravel the fabric of ... privacy rights which this court has woven. We are asking the court to pull this one string." 
Susman responded, "It has always been my personal expe­rience that when I pull a thread my sleeve falls off. There is no stopping. It is not a thread he is after." 
Questioning by the justices was brisk but not as aggressive as it has been in many argu­ment sessions of recent years. 
Seven of the nine court mem­

hers probed the positions of the 
three lawyers in front of them. 
Only Justices Thurgood Mar­
shall, a strong supporter of 
abortion rights, and Harry 
Blackmun, author of the 1973 
decision, remained silent. 
The justices, who do not nee­essarily have to reconsider Roe vs. Wade in resolving the Mis-cation as to how broad their decision will be. They are expected to announce their ruling by July. 
At one point, Justice Antonin Scalia--a potential "swing vote" along with Justices Sandra Day O'Connor and An­thony Kennedy--asked whe­ther the court must consider the nature of a fetus. 
"Can you derive (a funda­mental right to abortion) with­out making a determination as to whether the fetus is human life or not?" Scalia asked. 
"It is very hard to say ... it must be a fundamental right unless you make a determina­tion that the organism that is destroyed is not a human life," Scalia suggested. 
Susman said an assertion that "life begins at concep­tion," as stated in the Missouri regulations, is not a verifiable fact but "a question verifiable only by reliance upon faith." 
Fried said the Bush adminis­tration was not asking the court to end all protections for wo­men whose lives might be en­dangered by childbirth. 
"We are not here suggesting that the court allow blood­
ed housing and being a part of it," said Riordan. 
"I don't think I'd want to be a rector of a co-ed dorm," said Father Michael Sullivan, rec­tor of Carroll Hall. Sullivan said problems with managing the hall might arise because rectors might not be able to handle all the problems of both big issue. I run into it here in a unisex hall," added Sullivan. 
Miriam Hill, a 1987 Notre Dame graduate, thinks that co­ed housing would be an advan­tage at Notre Dame. "It should be an option for students. Re­lations between the sexes were very strained when I was at Notre Dame and common housing may help alleviate that 
problem." Hill thinks the strain exists "more than it should be­cause things are separate in many ways for men and women at Notre Dame." 
SECURITY BEAT 
MON., APRIL 24 
10:45 am An off-campus student reported the theft of his book bag and its contents from the seco,~-...----......,. floor of the Hes~.lllfgli ibr~~ sometime pe!Jweeii 4/23 and 8:00 am 4.f'l4: ·Total losses are estimated at$65. 
1:40 pm A resident of Stanford Hall reported vandalism done to his vehicle while parked in D-2 parking lot sometime between 3:00 am 4/21 and 10:30 pm , 4/24. Total damages are estimated at $150. 
4:45pm A Notre Dame employee reported that some unknown ve­hicle had side swiped his vehicle while parked in the B-2 parking lot sometime between 8:00 a and 
3:00 pm, 4/23. Total damages are unknown. 
4:15 pm A resident of Flanner Hall reported the theft of his bicycle from the Flanner Hall bike rack sometime between 2:00 pm, 4/19 and 4/21. Total loss is estimated at $25. 
TUES., APRIL 25 
10:07 pm An Alumni Hall resi­dent reported the theft of his bicy­cle from the Alumni Hall bike rack sometime between 3:30 pm, 4/24 and 9:30 am, 4/25. Total loss is es­timated at $150. 

CRIME OF THE WEEK 
·----------------------~ 
The crime of the week is an ar­son behind Zahm Hall. Secu­rity reports that at 2:16 a.m. on April 21, 1989, unknown per­son(s) started a fire on top of a homemade wooden hoat stored behind Zahm Hall. Crime Stoppers wants to know who set this fire and will pay a cash re­ward for information. Call Crime Stoppers at 288-STOP. You11 be eligible for a $300 re­ward and you won't be asked to 
give your name. 

~--------------------------------~ 

Viewpoint
page 8 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Chris Donnelly

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor .... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor ................. Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ....... Shannon Roach Sports Editor ...............•...... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks Accent Editor ....•..................... John Blasi Systems Manager ...........•. Mark Derwent Photo Editor ............................ Eric Bailey OTS Director ................... Angela Bellanca Controller ............................ Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the Independent newspaper publisned by the students of the Uni­verSity ot Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary·s College. It does not necessarily reflect the pohc1es of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opin1on of the majority of the follow1ng: Editor-in-Chief. Manag1ng Ed1tor, Executive News Ed1tor. Viewpoint Ed1tor. Sports Editor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying op1mons on campus. through 
letters. IS encouraged. 
LETTERS 
Thursday, April 27, 1989 

~~~'=-­
. .,--\ T. 1 1­,,:)~--.--~~\ ' )i ;-~ \ ' ':\\~~-~' ~.. ' rf 
rTLJJ " 
-

~ 
RMOOM DRUG TEGriNG 

Bookstore Basketball altercation reveals unsportsmanlike attitudes among some 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to relate to the student body a couple of things that I had not . previously known. These revelations were the result of a Bookstore Bas­ketball game that I had occa­sion to witness this past Mon­day. 
One of the teams playing con­sisted of a few football players while the other was composed of a quintet of Stanford Hall freshmen. It represented an op­portunity for the residents of Stanford to come out and sup­port the team. 
As the game progressed, things began to get out of hand. A one-sided shoving match resulted in fans from both teams pouring on to the court in an attempt to break up the "fight." As everyone now knows, the players involved were ejected from the game. It is my opinion that there was no 
._____n_e_e-i &,.. ~one to rush on to 
the court. T~ ~eearation of 
any hostility should be the job 
of the referees, who had begun 
to work in that round of sixty­
four. Violence has no place in 
sports, especially in Bookstore 
Basketball, but different 
people have different ideas on 
that subject, I'm afraid. 
Following the altercation on the court, there was nearly one off the court as well. I am as­hamed to say that I was in­volved. I was . not amongst those who chose to flood the court in order to break up the fight. In a somewhat meager attempt to help restore order, I was yelling at people to get off the court. One individual, who happens to be a reserve on the Notre Dame football team, did not take kindly to my at­tempts and proceeded to come over to have a chat. 
Asking me what my problem was, I told him that he had no business being on the court. He did not agree. "I was out there helping to break up the fight," he said. Again, I told him that he had no business being out there. At this point, he became slightly agitated. As he was restrained by a fellow football player, he yelled, "Look, you're wearing 'our' stuff." At the time, I was wearing a Notre Dame National Championship T-shirt. He continued, "You'll root for us in the fall but when it comes to Bookstore you won't." He concluded his tact­ful tirade by asking me what I had done for the University of Notre Dame. I could not think of one thing to say except "get out of here." I really wanted no part of what he was trying to goad me into. It made about as much sense as going out on the court to break up the "fight." As I thought later about the events that had transpired, a guy in my section came in and told me something that I found rather interesting . He said some of the football players that he knew could not understand why other students on campus did not like them. I instantly thought of the com­ments made by the football player that I had run into ear­lier. 

Ask any of my friends and they will tell you that I am one of the most fervent supporters of the football team. Having lived in this area all my life, I have seen the best and the worst they had to offer. But just because I support them during the football season, does it also mean that I have an obligation to come out and support them during the Bookstore Basket­ball tournament? I think not. I was rooting for my friends, the football players were rooting for their friends. Is that so wrong? 
Another thing that stuck in my mind dealt with my friend's query as to what I had done for the University. I can think of the many service projects and my year here as a resident as­sistant as things that I have done for the University. Win­ning a national championship is great, but if that's all you can claim as your contribution, then you have missed out on what it is to be a student at the University of Notre Dame. 
The final thing that stayed with me was the football player's comment that my na­tional championship T -shirt was "their" stuff. I had no idea that when I bought that shirt and others, there was a clause stating that I was, in reality, only renting the shirt. Who does he think he is? If this attitude is prevalent among football players (and I sincerely hoPe it is not), I can hpJ"DlY keep myself from laughmg when I think of football players pon­dering why they are not liked on campus. 
Patrick A. Hall 
Resident Assistant Stanford Hall April 25, 1989 

Catholic Church needs to promote birth control as a lesser evil than abortion 
Dear Editor: 
In this week's Newsweek magazine, an article on abor­tion states that of all Protes­tant, Jewish, and Catholic women in the United States, the group whose members are most likely to have an abortion is the Catholic one. 
It seems the Catholic Church hurts its own cause. Permitting the use of birth control is the first step to changing this em­barrassing statistic. I agree that the degree to which a reversal of the birth control po­sition would help is probably small, mainly because most sexually active Catholics already use birth control despite the Church's teachings. 
DOONESBURY 
However, a change in attitude on the part of the Catholic Church could help immensely. When birth control is not used or fails to work, and a Catholic woman becomes pregnant (especially out of wedlock), an abortion would not be foremost in her mind if her religion did not essentially label her as a "sinner." If the Church is cor­rect in its stance on abortion-­and I believe it is--then why doesn't it help itself by being more open to the subject of human sexuality rather than continually condemning "the dastardly deed? " 
Even if I thought birth con­trol and premarital sex were wrong, do these wrongs out­
/?AMN... IT's NOT HARO TO RATIONAUZ& MY NAYOUT OF 
TH/9, BUTATf,(JHAT TY<RJBl& PRJC8 TO MY PRJNCJPL£5 "? 

weigh that of abortion? I think of "wrongness"--murder is not sexual acts before marriage 
not. Contrary to what seems to on the same scale as theft, just outcasts. Then, it will find itself be conveyed by Catholicism, as birth control and premarital beginning to win the abortion there are "grey" areas which sex (if one believes these to be battle in its own front yard. make some things more wrong wrong) are not on the same 
than others. Certainly, even the scale as abortion. The Church Patrick J. Mullane most conservative of priests needs to stop making those who Alumni Hall would say that there is a degree use birth control and engage in April26, 1989 


Lowering flag appropriate to honor the dead 
Dear Editor: 

While attending the annual Blue-Gold game on April 22, I curiously noticed that the American flag, to which we were singing the National An­them, had not been lowered to half-staff. This surprised me in light of the recent tragedy upon 
the USS Iowa where 47 young propriate for the University to 
men lost their lives. have lowered the American 
Although the deaths upon the flag to half-staff, in honor of 
USS Iowa occurred during and in respect for the lives of 
peace time, I do not feel that those 47 unfortunate crewmen. 
the value of the lives lost was 
any less, or any greater, than James P. Cole, ENS, USNR 
if the deaths had occurred ND Class of '87 
during war time. Therefore, I Rosemont, IL 
feel that it would have been ap-April 22, 1989 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
I aJON/Jtl<. IF $500 7V TH8CANC&!<.. 
soamwouw 
COV5RIT. 
0 
0 

'I leave this rule for others when I'm dead: be always sure you're right -then go ahead. ' 
David Crockett 



Accent 
page 9 

CHRIS DONNELLY such, and was enough to 
AND At Scoozi be prepared for "a 
satisfy the most discrimninat­ing palate. The conchiglie 
CHRISTINE WALSH 
ripieni (stuffed pasta shells 
accent writers 

unique Italian experience" 
with ricotta cheese, Italian sausage and spinach, in a 
tomato basil sauce, $8.95)
rom the moment you spot were artfully presented, and
F the huge tomato over the ~(___ tasted twice as good as theydoorway, you know you're in looked.
for a unique Italian experi­Another recommended ence. 
entree is the pollo vesuvio Scoozi, located at 410 W. 
Huron, Chicago, is a delight­• ($9.50). The tender pieces of chicken were superbly cooked 
ful combination of courteous with peppers, spices, andservice, trendy atmosphere, 



~ 4¥/
and extraordinary cuisine. •.· tomatoes and were served 
Reservations are not ac­with potatoes and vegetables. cepted, so the wise diner After a filling meal of pasta would be well-advised to ar­and other Italian foods the rive around, rather than at, thought of dessert seems like the dinner hour. Even at a daunting task. However, the these times there can be a fresh desserts are certainly long wait, but by the time you worth finding room for. The
c{yf;--···· --·· 

have soaked in some of the . ,( -" 1 profiterole (cream puffs environment, and a drink or 'f. l f stuffed with white chocolate two, your table will be ready. f • gelati and covered with 
Before you even get a v· 1 caramel and hot fudge, $3.50) chance to look at the menu, was rich and very sweet. The freshly baked Italian bread, L) · cream puffs stayed light and and virgin olive oil spiced firm despite the sauce and with basil and garlic are • A gelati they were smothered brought to your table. The ..( f --·-~~---~ in.
bread has a distinctively · ' ._ l ____ 
The cassata with kiwi and crisp crust and tastes superb Then• i t~ore than enough ($5.50) was a pleasing combi­garlic, olive oil and herbs) strawberry sauce ($3.50) was dipped in the olive oil. Don't for w r people to share. nation that prepared you for was cooked al dente, and pre­heavenly. It consisted of 
· worry about devouring it too C~larr tari Aromatico (spicy the meal yet to come. sented the perfect balance of frozen heavy cream with pine 
-..--·qUickly~;,e before you fried l~alamari, greens, pasta and seafood. The clam nuts covered with the kiwi can ask for more, there is romarto dressing $5.50) is an-Entrees sauce had a healthy amount sauce. The airy dessert is a another piece waiting for you. oth~t.recommended ap-of clams and was accented by perfect ending to a heavy In addition to the rather pe;,¥zer. The portion is large, Recommended pasta from just the right amount of meal. extensive regular menu, you )'ht in this case, managable. the regular menu include the parsley and garlic. The mos­Scoozi, which is operated by are also given a list of daily ~ The Tre-colore salad with gnocchi capricciosi ($5.95), taccioli al formaggio (spinach Lettuce Entertain You, Inc. specials which certainly way grilled salmon, cucumbers, spaghettini aile vongole ziti with broccoli, walnuts and (The same company that rant attention. ,~...-asparagus, and dill, served ($8.45), and mostaccioli al four cheeses) had the perfect operates Ed Debevic's, and a 
with a mascarpone dressing formaggio ($8.45). The gnocci blend of melted cheese, and host of other Chicago restau­Antipasti ($5.95) was well-prepared (spinach dumplings in an was a welcomed change from rants), has turned out to be with an ample portion of sal­aurora sauce) were cooked to the traditional pasta with an enormously popular es­The Zucchini Frttti (fried mon complemented by a light perfection, but be tomato sauce. tablishment. The recognition zuccihni l'.t..icks With lemon, dressing. The special charred forewarned: both the gnocchi The special pasta, ziti with is well-deserved. The food 
-,$~.25/ was a meal in itself. It duck spinach salad included and the sauce were quite fil­grilled chicken and grilled was excellent and the service is served on a dinner plate, slices of oranges, duck crack­ling. vegetables, in a smoked moz­commendable, making for an piled high with thinly sliced lings (crisped duck skin) and The spagehttini aile vongole zarella cream sauce ($8.95), altogether enjoyable dining zucchini in a light batter. a tangy balsamic vinaigrette (spaghettini with fresh clams, was rightfully dubbed as experience. 

The man behind the scenes: 
Mr. Jim Gibbons the University's seasoned Director of Special Events and Protocol 
KATHY KIRNIN 
T 
tables, it is Mr. Gibbons' duty plained Mr. Gibbons. "If we his upcoming weekend to "take care of visiting fail to carry them out, we marks the dedication of guests from the time they ar­aren't going to succeed." the Marion Burke Knott Hall. rive at Notre Dame until the Mr. Gibbons' connection As this event gets underway, time they leave." with Notre Dame began in care must be taken to ensure The three letters of com­1956, when he worked in the that everything runs accor­mendation from former Athletic Department as an ding to schedule. Presidents Ford, Carter, and Assistant Basketball and 
Who will be responsible for Reagan are proof that Mr. Baseball coach. In 1961, Mr. the upkeep of the grounds Gibbons does his job well. He Gibbons became involved surrounding Knott Hall? Who cited these presidential visits with the Administration De­will see to it that incoming as the most challenging to partment as the Assistant guests have a place to stay coordinate, having to work Director of Public Relations. overnight? Who will be re­along with the White House As Director of Special 
sponsible for p~eparing Staff and Secret Service to Events and Protocol, Mr. Gib­
namecards and j:l.m-c 't/tt­ensure that their visits went bons said he "loves his job." 
tings? The meticu1ous plar smoothly and unhindered. In planning for the Univer­ning and preparation for With so many details to re­sity's many events, he comes these details are all duties of member and arrange, some into contact with persons on 
the Director of Special Events form of organization is neces­all levels of authority. While and Protocol, Mr. Jim Gib­sary. In what he referred to he is responsible for welcom­bons. as the "Modus Operandi," ing the visiting benefactors 
Events such as the Knott Mr. Gibbons and his commit­and VIPs, Mr. Gibbons also Hall dedication, or President tees outline every step of interacts closely with mem­Bush's visit last fall do not every event that they are in bers of campus security and simply happen, they are the charge of. building services. results of much advance plan­For example, the Modus His position allows Mr. Gib­ning, checking, and re­Operandi for the Knott Hall bons to meet many people on checking by Mr. Gibbons and dedication covers eleven campus, "from President 
Observer I E.G. Bailey
his staff. pages, including such items Malloy on down." However, From sending out invita­as removing the dumpster what Mr. (.abbons enjoys 
Mr. Jim Gibbons as the Director of Special Events and Protocol is
tions to welcoming University from in front of the hall, to most about his job is the fact 
responsible for all the planning and organization that goes into the
benefactors, and from plan-repainting the elevators in the that "every single day is dif­
-University's many events. 
. ning dinner menus to seeing library. Details such as these ferent; every event creates a that flowers are on all the are "positively crit~ocal," ex-new set of challenges." 


{__ 

page 12 The Observer
-
•


Blackhawks w1n Norris title 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS--Bob Murray and Wayne Presley scored eight seconds apart to key a three­goal burst in the second period Wednesday night and the Chicago Blackhawks won the Norris Division championship with a 4-2 victory over the St. Louis Blues. 
Chicago, outscored 27-17 by St. Louis in eight regular­season meetings, captured the best-of-7 series in five games, winning the last three games. 
Dave Manson had two assists for the Blackhawks, who had the lowest point total of the 16 playoff and has now advanced to next week's Campbell Con­ference finals against the Cal­gary Flames. 
Chicago, trailing 1-0, received the break it needed when Blues defenseman Glen Featherstone received a major penalty and game misconduct for an altercation with Black­hawks rookie Jeremy Roenick. 
The teams were both a player short when Murray took Man­son's pass from inside the Chicago zone and skated in alone on St. Louis goalie Greg Millen. Eight seconds later, Presley scored at 9:25 of the second period after Black­hawks captain Dirk Graham stole the puck in the Blues zone. 
Roenick capped Chicago's three-goal spree with St. Louis a man short due to Feat­herstone's penalty, ripping a slap shot off the right boards between Millen's skates with Blues defenseman Tom Tilley serving as a screen. 
Roenick's goal, his first of the playoffs, increased the Black­hawks' lead to 3-1 at 12:13. Til­ley scored at 17:28 on a 50-foot slap shot, but Steve Thomas scored on a breakaway from Adam Creighton for Chicago with 11:37 left. 
It was the Blackhawks' fifth playoff victory in six series against St. Louis and avenged a loss in five games to the Blues a year ago. 
Bernie Federko's goal off Peter Zezel's centering pass at 
4: 18 while St. Louis was on a power play represented the first period's lone goal. Chicago finished the period with an 8-6 advantage in shots and dominated the middle per­iod by taking 17 shots on goal to the Blues' six. 
Murray's goal followed by Presley's set a 47-year-old Blackhawks playoff record, bettering a mark of two scored 11 seconds apart in 1942. 


5:00p.m.

5 Minahoonies Mlnahoonies 12 Rubber Cement by 5 
Ryan 

continued from page 16 
The Texas hitters have sup­ported these pitchers with a potent attack of their own. Ruben Sierra has been on fire this spring, batting .375 with four home runs while playing right field. 
Cecil Espy has silenced crit­ics who have complained that he isn't the leadoff man the Rangers are looking for. The fleet-footed center fielder has stolen 11 bases, second only to Rickey Henderson of the Yankees, and is batting well above a .300 clip. 
Acrobatic second baseman Julio Franco is even pitching in. Although Franco is living up to his reputation as a light hitter (he was batting .259 as of this weekend), he has driven in a league-leading 18 runs. 
The Rangers are going to need continued support from people like Sierra, Espy, and 
4/28 BK 10 

Franco if they are going to con­tinue their unlikely drive for the AL West pennant. 
The A's are on a seven-game winning streak, and they are certainly a force to be reckoned with. But if the Texas pitching staff continues to throw strikes, they may find themselves on top of the AL West at the end of the year. 
And middle-aged men throughout the country will abstain from beer and potato chips as they tune in to cheer a 42-year-old man who whiffs dazed batters with a 98 mile­per-hour fastball. 

. Ihe Obset:ver___= 
is accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Ad Designers 
For more information, contact Shannon Roach at 283-2608 or 239-5303 
Thursday, April 27, 1989 
Track teams split up for concurrent meets 
By KEN TYSIAC Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's track teams will each send athletes to both Drake and Ball State this weekend to compete against some of the best run­ners in the Midwest. The meets will be run concur­rently, so the Irish will have to split up their teams to compete in both meets. 
The strongest athletes from each team will travel to Des Moines, Iowa for the Drake Relays Friday and Saturday. This meet is one of the most challenging meets in the country for this time of the year, so the 17 Irish striders who make the trip will have to be at their best to cross the finish line first. 
Hurdles star Glenn Wat­son will try to qualify for the NCAA's this weekend. Wat­son will look to improve on his impressive performance in last weekend's Kansas 
__.Relays, in which he re­cordei:t·--a_ time of 14.24 seconds in t~-meter high hurdles. . \ 
Irish co-captain Yan Searcy calls Watson "quite a comeback story." e_atson bravely returned from 'ir~e surgery this winter, and IS leaving his opponents behi~. 
in a cloud of dust this spring. ·---~~Iff competitiOn m the 1,500 
"Glenn has been fantastic rn~ers. this sprmg, and he should The res~ of the men and break the 14-second barrier womer~ will travel to Ball before it's all over," says State or:t·Saturday. Searcy. "We've got a world-"We are looking for good, class runner on our hands quality perfO':Ut~nces from here." the teams we will serd to 
Another Irish strider who Drake and Ball State ffiis is certainly a world-class weekend," says Piane. 

athlete is senior dista~ce 
man Ron MarkeziCh. Markezich will be running in the 5,000 meters at Drake, and Irish coach Joe Piane is hoping that his marquee man will bring a first place trophy back from Des Moines. 
Piane also has high hopes for Tom O'Rourke, who will run the steeplechase at Drake. Searcy echoes his co­ach's enthusiasm. 
"Torn hopes to qualify for the NCAA's this weekend," says Searcy. "He should do well--he has a lot of good workouts behind him." 
The Irish will also run one­and two-mile relay teams at Drake. Piane especially has high hopes for the two­milers, who will look for strong performances from Mark Lavery and David Warth. 
These Irish men will be joined by three athletes from the Notre Dame wo­men's track team. Senior Theresa Rice from Mis­hawaka will travel to Des Moines with freshman team­mates Lucy Nusrala and Sheila Stewart. 
Nusrala was especially impressive last weekend at the Indiana Intercollegiates ~he took .fift~ pla~e with a tu:ne of 4 · 43:~ ag~mst some 
, 






~ NOTRE DAME 
Pizza™ 


SPECIALS
v 

FREE DELIVERY! 
Monday thru Friday 5:00 p.m. 'till closing. Saturday & Sunday 12 noon 'till closing. $5.00 minimum order. 
52920 U.S. 31 N. 


277-5880 
·------------------------,-------------------------­
SUPER PEPPERONI PIZZA SUPER PEPPERONI PIZZA 
2 FOR $9.99 2 FOR $9.99 
~~ ~s
Pizza,. Pizza,.
Two large pepperoni pizzas with Two large pepperoni pizzas with 40 slices of pepperoni. 40 slices of pepperoni.
v v 
Please mention coupon when ordering. One offer per order. Please mention coupon when ordering. One offer per order. Not valid with any other coupon or offer. Not valid with any other coupon or offer. 
Expires 5/31/89 Expires 5/31189 
LARGE BACON LARGE BACON CHEESEBURGER PIZZA CHEESEBURGER PIZZA 



$8.99 
$8.99 
Topped with beef, onion, cheddar & Topped with beef, onion, cheddar & mozzarella cheeses, bacon and pickles mozzarella cheeses, bacon and pickles Please mention coupon when ordering. One offer per order. Please mention coupon when ordering. One offer per order. Not valid with any other coupon or offer. Not valid with any other coupon or offer. 
Expires 5/31/89 Expires 5/31/89 
-------------------------·..------------------------­
SUPER CHEESE PIZZA SUPER CHEESE PIZZA 

$6.99 $6.99 
~~ ~s
Original or Thin Crust. Original or Thin Crust.
Pizza,. Pizza,.
Please mention coupon when ordering. One offer per order. Please mention coupon when ordering. One offer per order. Not valid with any other coupon or offer. Not valid with any other coupon or offer.
v v 
Expires 5/3\/89 Expires 5/31/89 

-------~~---­
Thursday, April 27, 1989 


Hoops 
continued from page 16 jumped out to an early lead in downing Corporate Raiders 21­
11. Murphy's was led by Kevin Warren with eight points and Aaron Robb with seven. 
"I think we might have had our best game today," Robb said. "Everybody was on their game. We've got a lot of scoring balance." 
Murphy's will play Fugitive Guys Finale, which outlasted Khomeni's Bounty Hunters in a 26-24 marathon. Tim Woods hit 12-of-25 shots to lead Fugi­tive Guys into the next round. 
Coach's once again over­came a slow start and rallied to defeat Leny's American Grill 21-18. Coach's trailed 11-9 at the half, but like Tuesday, dominated the second half. 

Grad Students, Professors, Employees 
MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Less than 1 0 minutes from campus 
---~~ --~---------­
--~------------------­
Killer Bees defeated Rodan, Sky ~nd Three Guys Who Can Fly in 
Bookstore Basketball XVIII action Wednesday. Tournament play 
continues on Friday. · 
Offers 

* Pool, Clubhouse * locked intercom entrances 
• Washer & dryer in each apartment • flexible leases 
( also -furnished executive suites ) call for details-277-3731 
oudontneed richparents togetacar forgraduation. 
Sentra 

Up to $1 000 Rebate 


KILaLEA 
NISSAN 
Celebrating our 10th Year Anmversarv 
1979-1989 
2101 Lincolnway, West Mishawaka, IN 46556 255-9644 

*48 mo./60 mo. N.M.A.C. financing 
John McCabe scored eight points for Coach's, while Bubba Cunningham tossed in five. Defenses are starting to key on Jim Dolan, Coach's leading _ scorer. Dolan was held to four 1 points Wednesday. 
"When you look at our team and think about who's going to score, it's got to be Jim," Cun­ningham said. "Someone has to pick up the slack, and I'm glad John was there to do it today." 
Minahoonies, 21-16 winners over Rubber Cement, will be the next opponent for Coach's. 
J.C. Trybus led Minahoonies with 10 points. 
NOTES -All of the higher­seeded teams won Wednesday. ..Quarterfinal action gets un­der way at 4 p.m. Friday on the Bookstore courts. . .Adworks will be forced to decide be­tween Ned Bolcar and Jay Hayes for Friday's game. 

$750 Rebate or 7.9°/0"9.9°/o financing* 


1~----------------------~Get a Nissan I
· for no money down. 1 No payments for 90 days. Just fill out this card 1 and bring it to any participating Nissan Dealer. 
I

I Nam~ 
I Signature:
I 
Addrt?ss: 
I City: State: Zipi
I 
School Name: 
I Dealer signature: I 
I

I Otfl'r is ~nnd frnmt\pril 15. l'lH'I throu~h SL'pll'mbl'r 30, 14K4.I Financinh subjL•rt ll> L'n·dit .lpprol',ll. l'rl'l'i<>US L'omp.lr<lbk•1 credit is not required, huwewr, ,,dwrsL' L'rc·dit m.1y dis,,u,ll­1 iiy. Ofil>r not \'~lid in N!!w ]L'r"'\'. Limited to licl'llSl'LI 
drin..~rs lli years of clge "nd 0\'l'f with \'l'Tiiiitble! offt."rs ofI l'mployJnent clftl'f grclduation. Vl•rifiubk· insurancl~ CO\'l'Ttlgl'
I re,Juirl!d .I 
·----------------------­
The Observer I Trey Raymond 
I 
I 
I 
~ 
I 
~ 
1 
~ 
I I I
1
I
I 
I
I 

-~ 
page 11 
-

Latest charge may reduce Edwards' value 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS--Battery charges filed this week against Jay Edwards cast doubt on whether the former Indiana University basketball star is emotionally ready for the NBA, some analysts say. 
A may 30 bench trial is sched­uled in Monroe Superior Court for Edwards, who pleaded in­nocent Tuesday to two mis­demeanor charges involving allegations he struck a woman at a party in Bloomington last week. 
"If you aren't strong, mature and disciplined, you can get swept into the web of destruc­tion," said Clark Kellogg, a former Indiana Pacers player. 
"For somebody with a fol­lower's type of personality makeup, the road in the NBA can be very dangerous. You have a lot of people who can be vultures. They will try to take advantage or manipulate a kid who doesn't have his feet firmly on the ground," said Kellogg, a sportscaster. 
Last month, Edwards 
decided to forego his final two 
years of college eligibility for 
a shot at a career in the NBA, 
apparently without talking 
with coaches or counselors. 
"I had my mind made up," 
he said. 

Edwards cited IU's Big Ten Conference championship, his selection as Big Ten player of the year and second-team All­America by The Associated Press as accomplishments that would make him a high draft pick. 
But a propensity to rebel at school regimentation and au­thority also may have played a role in his decision. 
"You know, just people tel­ling me not to do this, not to do that, constantly. That's about the only thing that really ag­gravates me. 
"It ain't that hard on the court, because that's where I like it. And that's where I'm most comfortable than anywhere else,'' he told The In­dianapolis News last week. 
But some NBA officials ques­tion Edwards' maturity to play in the pros. 
"I'm not saying Jay Edwards isn't going to be a tough player, but I don't know that at his age he's ready to walk into this world where there are men fighting for their livelihoods," said Pacers general manager Donnie Walsh. 
NBA scout Marty Blake calls Edwards' decision "a cata­strophic mistake." 
But it will get him away from the academic world, which he said was a necessary evil that allowed him to play basketball. 
"I knew I had to go to school to play basketball. So, that gave me an incentive to go to school," he said. 
But it was not enough of an incentive to stay out of trouble at Indiana. 



=Rm~~
SFAFOOD ,fC~ 
~ 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 
219-259~25 


-
AP Photo 

The Milwaukee Brewers, pictured celebrating Rob Deer's game-winning home run Tuesday against 
Minnesota, defeated the Twins 12-0 Wednesday. In other games, Boston beat Chicago 5-4, Texas 
squeezed by Cleveland 3-2, New York trounced Atlanta 6-1, San Diego triumphed over Pittsburgh 
3-1 and Cincinnati trimmed Montreal 6-5. 
Thursday, April 27, 1989 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Notre Carrie softball team defeated Southwestern Michigan 5-0 Wednesday behind the three-hit pitching of Melissa Linn. Details on the Irish victory will appear in Friday's paper. -The Observer 
Off campus lacrosse plays Thursday, April 27, at 8 p.m. on Cartier Field against Alumni. Call Bill at 287-5758 for more information. -The Observer 
Boxing Club sweats will be sold to all boxers at the varsity issue room of the Joyce ACC from 1 to 2 p.m. on Friday, April 28. -The Observer 
The Sailing Club awards banquet has been postponed from today until next Thursday. Meet at the boathouse at 
5: 15 p.m. Call an officer for more information. -The Ob­server 
The 12th Legends of Golf tournament gets under way Thursday. Defending champions Orville Moody and Bruce Crampton hope to become the first team to win three consecutive Legends titles. -Associated Press 
The Observer accepts tiAss1heds every busmess day from tO am. until 4 p.rn at thr Notre Dame oH1ce. 314 LaFortune. a01d from 12:30 until 3 p m. at the Samt Mary's ott1ce. Haggar College Center Deadline tor next-day class1f1eds 1S 3 p m All ctass1f1eds rnus1

Classifieds 
be prepa1d. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
\ 
Moving to NYC? 1979 VW Rabbit, runs great, pertect stu· LIZ AND CANDY CANNOT BE GO HOME! KELLY CAMPBELL, NICE TO SEE Lg 1 bdrm. apt. lor (ent Aug. 1. Good NEED A VEHICLE? GREAT VAN AND
dent car. Call 234-6497. STOPPED! OUR JUGGERNAUT IS SE­YOU GO, TAKE YOUR ATTITUDE
NOTICES 
midtown toe. tve, DW & lg closets. Per· TRUCK PRICES-ONE WAYS STILL
CURE SO BEWARE! LONG LIVE THE W'IOUIII fect tor share. Call Betsy or Jackie. (212) AVAIL CALL X1143 FOR INFO.
SONY Stereo, w-t:arousel CD and SWEENEY SISTERS!lllll 

582-4250. 
cabinet. Great for dorm. x234-6497 ................................................................ BARBARA BILLINGSLY'S OINTMENT
TYPING AVAILABLE tonight tonight tonight 

NEW YORK NEW YORK NEW YORK MCCORMICK'S FRIDAY 10 FAREWELL 
287-4082 

sublei'FII'lonsmoke..SrendenwcxxYt rm LIFE IS ELSEWHERE
HELP! I NEED A RIDE HOME TO SHOW DON'T FORGET TO WRITE of 2 bdroomtheap-2875329 alter 8pm 1918 Notre Dame Dome Yearbook. 
234-7487 A.M. ANYWHERE IN THE STATE RECORD RELEASE ORGY-MOJO PREFERABLY SOMEWHERE BETW. HELL
at CLUB 23 NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks tor 
ALBANYCASHII Hardbound & paperbacl<s! Cash 

new and old acoustic rock
& NY LEAVING 5112, 13 OR 14 or Credit available I PANDORA'S BOOK 
tonight life is elsewhere
1pack light & will share expenses BARBARA BILLINGSLY'S OINTMENT808 Howard St. just ott of N.D. L......-_W_A_NT_ED_ __.l IL_._T_IC_K_ET_S~ Please call x3719 McCormick's Friday night 10-2 Last
Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. DAVE STOLPMAN: I WANT TO SEE 
Notre Dame Appearance ever
233-2;342 I am looking for a bike for grad school YOU IN YOUR BIRTHDAY SUIT. 
$$$ GRAD TIX WANTED $$$ SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $279 HOORAY AT LASTI Our record Ia nownext year. Steve 3767 
Call Michelle at 3196 each way on dlacountacf achedulacf available Mojo Hell-4 tracl<a on Ho-Ho airlines to Europe from Chicago. Call recorda 
RESUMES, reports, etc. typed on a ANYONE INTERESTED IN LEASING 
computer. ean Sue'a Secretarial Ser­CHICAGO YOUTH CENTERS AN APARTMENT AT TURTLE CREEK
(BOO) 325-2222.

vice anytime et 299-0063. CAMP ROSENTHAL 
FOR THE SUMMER? CALL DEIRDRE SUMMER CAMP STAFF NEEDED 
••• HAWAIIAN CLUB LUAU ... 
AT 284·4365. 

LITTLE AISLING RIGNEY TURNS 21EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL We are looking for~Oynemlc Staff for Saturday, April 29 TODAY... DON'T BE SCARED!!! HAVEHOPING TO ADOPT
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. our multi-cultural, multi-racial, camp­So. Dining Hall 6-9 p.m. SUMMER APARTMENT IN TURTLE 
Tickets $5.00 We're a happily married, financially A GOOD ONE, ASH I WE LOVE YOU! 
Ing program locatacf west of CREEK NEEDED. ONE ROOMMATEsecure couple with a beautiful homeHOLY CROSS PRJESTS & BROTHERS Dowagiac, MI. We _,e economically On sale now at ISO office OR TWO SUBLETTERS. CALL 284­SARALEE IS A BEAUTIFUL GREEKand Iota of love to share with a much·VOCATION COUNSELING lor the ONE­dlaadvantagacf youth from Chicago at 4387 STACY OR JAN ENE AFTER 8 PM.
wantacf be by. If you are pregnant and GODDESS!
YEAR CANDIDATE PROGRAM and Camp Rosenthal through our recrea­considering adoption, please call us.
other ministry oppoftun~ies. Contact: FR. tional, adventure besed, and tralnlna I need 5 graduation tix-call Tom 3155 
Expenses paid. Confidential, legal. HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS SUM­Stephanie-Jean Graham's top Ooutes: ·I JOHN CONLEY, CSC BOX 541 NOTRE programs. or 3157 MER (OR ANYTIME)? Jet there from
Please call Deborah and David collect doni have a scale so I use a tape mea­DAME 239-6385 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE: day or night at 312-935-4088. Chicago, Detroit or Cleveland for no sure -Mike,Patrick,and Sean..-1 am aller­GENERAL COUNSELORS; 
PLANE TICKET TO PHILADELPHIA more than $160 with AIRHITCH (TM), gic to Ethanol -I'm Blonde no matter what 

Pray to St. Jude MAY 12 $ 75; 239-6208(DAY) 287·
WATERFRONT DIR. Camp will provide ATTENTION SOPHOMORES !!Ill as raportacf In Consumer Reports, NY the roots are. -Don't Bite off more than
1243(NIGHT)

opportunity for Wst certification to Times, Let's Go, and national network 
-
Want FREE ADMISSION to next year's you can chew ·Shut up and lay downWILL HOUSESIT FOR SUMMER quallflacf applicants. 
Junior Class Events? morning shows. For details, call 212-Do you do this often? · woud that have
Responsible for: clean house, pets, $$Garduation Tickets Wanted-Big Buc
LIFEGUARDSOATING INSTR.; WORK Looking to meet more of your 884-2000 or write: AIRHITCH(TM), happened if ? -I look like a breaclled..
plants, yard. Call Debbie 283-4500 Call Bob # 3467
CREW LEADERS; INSTRUCTORS, classmates? 2901 Broadway, Suite IOOG, NY, NY We promised that we would put these in Arts & Crafts, Arc~mea, Wood­10025.
FOR SALE CHEAPI Looking to help our class as a photog· HAPPY BIRTHDAY SJG. love Mick and worklngflocketry, Nlltura Study. AS­
rapher at class events? Join the Class JonONE-WAY TICKET SOUTH BEND TO 
LAX ON !>23. CALL 284-5314. 

SISTANT COOKS, DRIVEFK:LERK. BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL T·
of 1991 Photography

For mora Information CONTACT: SHIRTS CALL DAN # 4258
Group It's Stephanie-Jean Graham's 19th CAMP ROSENTHAL 
\ LOST/FOUND ) 
Birthday Today !! II you know her, call 3384 CLAWSON ROAD Contact Sean Scanlon at 283·1139RUTHIE AND MARCEL ARE COMING SKYDIVING TIME IS RUNNING OUT her and wish her a HAPPY BIRTHDAY,
................................................................
DO YOU HAVE A BLUE & WHITE WIL­TO ND and one of them needs a ticl<et
DOWAGIAC, Ml 49047 DEAN 287-3024
GOING TO FLORIDA??? if you don't know her, pretend like you
SON GOLF UMBRELLA? IF YOU to graduation. Will pay $$ callx4228
(616) 424-5272 PICKED IT UP FROM NIEWLAND 127 
Anyone looking for riders at the end of do. Call her at 284-4286 
P-KIN, Happy 8th. I'll be there tor you!!!
the school year to Orlando, Daytona, orBETWEEN 9:15 AND 10:45 ON 
I love You, T-Bear STONE PUPPIESFt. Lauderdale, please call Will at 283·THURSDAY. PLEASE RETURN IT TO AGENTS NEEDED! $350.00 PER DAY STONE PUPPIES
2089.
ITS OWNER. X4927 PLEASE 

PROCESSING PHONE ORDERS! SARA LIEBSCHER.."SARA
PERSONALS 

STONE PUPPIES PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE LIEBSCHER Pool your money now I lost a camera case on stepan courts 
MARK MANNING FOR UMOC

NECESSARY. CALL (REFUNDABLE) 1· folks because your pal and mine­FRI. NITElast week. call 255-5152 d you found it. Hey babe, nice life, nice bod, where'd
315· 733·6063 EXTENSION P-2382. SARA LIEBSCHER-Cia laying If all on CLUB 23
VOTE MARK MANNING·UGL Y MAN ON
Thanl<s. you dig it up?-3 sees 
(gee that rhymes w~h something) CAMPU

SREWED by a year lease? Will rent the line for FRI. NITE
................................................................
FOUND-set of dorm keys in Cushing Hall. 

your place for the summer. 
CLUB 23SENIORS

call 4328 to claim Call TONY 288-8719. U.M.O.C. She's very scary so give to hi ag 
SENIORS a needy causelll Maybe she'll raise STONE PUPPIESNEW JOB OI!ENINGS RECEIVED IN

LOST: At Sr. Formal-35mm kodak.Rt. ................................................................ ................................................................ enough money for that operation.
LAST WEEK. PICK UP HANDOUT INSide of Ballrm contains all our pix.Pieae -APRIL PLAYBOY MAG. Call Ulick 234· SUMMER JOBS TAP INTO AN TOSTAL'S ONLY NON­CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­
call John 271·0129 0515 ALL LANDWATER SPORTS CONGRATULATIONS PHIL OFFICIAL GIG: FRIDAY
VICES FOR DETAILS.

PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS KRAKERIIII You are Indeed the reign­226 ST. PETER-4:00
vi5HEY WANTED: HOUSE SITTING JOB FOR ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS Ing stud of the Bookstore tournayl THE CHEWING BLACKBONESSENIORS
Did you find a round, gold SUMMER SESSION. GRAD STUDENT. NEAR LAKE PLACID Look out Mr. Bookstore, here comes
SENIORS

St. Chrlatopher SUPER DEPENDABLE, GLOWING CALL 1-800-343-8373. the king of Rubber Cementl SENIOR BAR medal? I lost one on the soccer 
NEW JOB OPENINGS RECEIVED IN
REFERENCES. WILLING TO WORK. SENIOR BAR
LAST WEEK. PICK UP HANDOUT IN
field behind Stepan on Monday. If CALL JOHN AT 1-465-0966 A.S.A.P. Mary Mahoney Ia one rad hot babe FRIDAY LUNCH NOON-2:00 you find ~ please call Pets at 2459 RAE ANN BARGER! She Is a woman of MANY talents, so & In the GARDEN... 
CAREI:R AND PLACEMENT SER· 
································································ VICES FOR DETAILS.
(LEMANS HALL) call her today and ask her to do the THE STONE PUPPIES LOT: Sr. Frml. At Side of Ballrm 35mm HAPPY 22ND BIRTHDAY, things she does to Vlnnlellil Kodak, contains all our pix Please Call FOR SALE APRIL 27 SENIORS Happy Birthday Melanie!!! 
John at 271-0129 GRADUATION CONGRAT\ILATIONSI SENIORS Why Is CHRIS JENKS so HAPPY? ff 
WE LOVE YOU!' NEW JOB OPENINGS RECEIVED IN you are of the female persuasion Ita JOHN "THE TOOL FACE" DICE YOUR FAMILY LAST WEEK. PICK UP HANDOUT IN probebly because he's looking up IS UMOC LOST: GOLD NUGGET NECKLACE. 
EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE. Panasonic Min bike. Like new! Call Tom. 
CALL BEKI AT 284-5127. 

CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER· your skirt. Beware: this man Ia war­He's UGLY. . He's REALLY ugly.. 
277-0725 VICES FOR DETAILS. ming up for early dirty-old-man statu a. He's so UGLY the voting is just a for­
I NEED GRAD TIXI CALL MIKE# 1558 If he'a smlllng-l'd runt mality! CongratulationsKEYS LOST IF FOUND CALL 2088 FOR SALE: Brother electronic type CHRIS KMETZ & LAURA LUCIA DIAMOND DAVE BRUNER Vote DICE for UMOCLOST ON NORTH QUAD: AN AEROBIE. writer. Call Sue, 283-4910. 
On Your ENGAGEMENT!
For ODN One World shirts call 3193 for Ugly Man On Campus OVERNIGHT THE WIND BLEW IT Modem couch and full-size bed for DOWN. IF YOU FOUN IT, PLEASE sale. Great condition. Call 234-8365 IT GOT STUCK IN THE TREE AND 
To get your 'I got down and dirty in the 
PATTY MICHAUD'S BIRTHDAY IS AP· DAVE BRUNER mud' An Tostal T-shirt call Michelle #CALL TONY AT 1244. IT WA BOA· DON'T BE A GEEK PROACHINGIIII (and I am putting this I WANT TO MARRY YOU 4620
ROWED. '79 PINTO WAGON. STICK SHIFT, BE A SENIOR 
personal in for her even thoug she is ·AN UGLY FAN
GOOD SHAPE, DEPENDABLE, HIGH MILES. $800. 277-6031. 
ignoring me lately...) To everyone who came out and sup­SENIOR MONTH SENIOR MONTH 
ported us during Bookstore, we appreci­A Message for the unscrupulous Notre Dame Chorale ate your FIGHTING Gaucho support.
'81 Subaru, FWD, 108K, Best otter dad
FOR RENT 

Meatuses (Tom, Dave, John, Mike & Wal· Alumni Reunion THANKS! Pete,Dave Jerry,Greg andis giving me his-must sell 3554 
MALE TO SHARE TOWNHOUSE NEAR 

ly): WE ARE PROUD .... Concert Rob. NICE FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. NO. CALL TYLER 277-4831 OR 271-................................................................ Friday, 8:15pm 2BNI389, 683-8889. 9360 THE MEPHISTOPHELIAN MEATUSES Washington Hall AN TOSTAL
FOR SALE: PIEDMONT FLIGHT 
HAVE BECOME A LEGEND... 5K & !OK RUNSVOUCHER
THERE'S STILL A HOUSE AVAILABLE SMC FRESHMAN FORMAL BOXERS 9 AM SATURDAY
FOR MALE PASSENGER "BEST OF­
IN GOOD CONDITION AND EXCEL­"APRIL SHOWERS" "...some cereal, RACE DAY REGISTRATION AT LENT LOCATION-SAFE AND CLOSE--FER" ON SALE NOW IN ROOM 507, 510 OF The reign of the Meatuses is not of this "it's s'posed to be good for you STEPAN 4-5 BEDROOMS, FURNISHED. 233· CALL 283-3405 LEMAN! ONLY $5.00111 WHAT A BAR­wortd... 
LIFE IS ELSEWHERE 
JENNY FROM LYONS,

9947 GAIN! LIMITED SUPPLY-SO BUY NOW CLUB 23 TONITE 
AN TOSTAL T-SHIRTSII AN TOSTAL APT. 2 PEOPLE GOOD NEIGHBOR­ATTENTION: T-SHIRTSII PW Ia selling t-shlrta today 
NEED CHEAP TRANSPORTATION? I enjoyed talking with you at 
BARBARA BILLINGSLY'S OINTMENT 
Graduate student wants to sell1980 Ford Stepan Center and would like to do ~ 
HOOD 288-0955-289-2331 ANYONE LIVING IN NYC AREA and THURSDAY at lunch & dinner In BARBARA BILLINGSLY'S OINTMENT
Pinto Sedan, STD. RebuiH Engine, Good again sometime but I don't know your #
NEED THINGS SHIPPED HOME? NOH Shirts are ONLY $8.00 MALE GRADUATES CALL JOHN AT 271-8704 OR
Tires & Snows. MAKE OFFER. Call Mike, 
come, let us offend you
eve. 271-1354 Chris (2161)
FURNISHED ROOMS, AIR, KITCHEN, 283-1789 (AFTER 10:00PM) HE THINKS HE'S 50000 CUTEIII 
one last time FRIDGE. 5 MINS. N. CAMPUS. 272-LOFT-$45 BUT WE KNOW BETTER... 
0615. GREY CARPET,UKE NEW,8'x10'-$60 VOTE FOR BRIAN O'GARA FOR FRIDAY FRIDAY FRIDAY 
STEREO CABINET-$10 VOTE DAN-0 YU FOR UMOC UMOC Notre Dame's UGLY MEN:
McCORMICKS McCORMICKS 10PM. SUB-LEASING TURTLE CR. 4 DRAWER CHEST-$15 HE'S UUUGLYII It's never been so gross... 1. Dan-0 Yu TWNHOUSE IF INTERESTED CALL BLACK-WHITE RECLINER-$25 2. "Diamond" Dave Bruner TIMOAN x1066 X3201 3. Mark Rizzieri
SENIOR BAR 

or LANCE x2458 Join the MARY KAY WALLER dele of I NEED A RIDE HOME TO FLORIDA 4. Mark J. Hahn
STONE PUPPIES 

For Sale: 1980 Mazda GLC, 99K the day club. Membership Include& FOR THE SUMMER. I CAN LEAVE 5. John "the tool face· Dice
I. LUNCH 

new tires-MUST SELL $500 or meA outings to Senior Bllr, with op­FRIDAY 5112 AND WILL SHARE NOR­
NOON Turne Creek Townhouse available to bMt olfar. Call Lou 289-4315 tional rldea home to a veritable bevy MAL EXPENSES. CALL PAUL AT 289· TONIGHT IS THE LAST NIGHT TO summer .Price negoctiable 272-9298 of new and exciting bacia. · 0662 OR 283·35061 VOTEI! 
1.:.~..0.!:.~!.Y.N.t=.................................... 

Thursday, April 27, 1989 
NO tennis to host Toledo outdoors 


Ihe Obset:Ver__ 
= 

is accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Typists 

For more information, contact Janet Herold at 283-4205 or 239-5303 byMay3 

The University of Notre Dame continues to be a major source of staff for Price Waterhouse. We are proud to welcome the following 1989 graduates to our firm. 
CHICAGO INDIANAPOLIS SAN FRANCISCO Pete Dales Tom Naughton John Eilers Pete Harvey John Oxrider John Heffernan Kent Laber LOS ANGELES Pat Marschall SOUTH BEND
Ed Kennedy

Sinead Rigney Greg Gillen Tom Sloan Laura Rubie John Steffan 
MINNEAPOLIS 

Diondra Toney 
Kris Kennedy 

SAVANNAH Mark HappeCINCINNATI 
NEW YORK Mike Restle 
Joe Capko

Krista Starr WASHINGTON D.C.
Scott Lechner Carter Thomas Todd Hardiman 
-
FT. WORTH Dave Fischer 
ROCHESTER Chris Gerace 


'----------------Price Waterhouse 


The The Notre Dame women's tennis team (15-6) completes its spring season Saturday against Toledo outside on the Courtney Courts. In the event of rain, the match will be moved inside to the Eck Pavilion. 
Bird may return in time for NBA playoffs 
Associated Press "We're going to take this one mal," Rodgers said after very cautiously." Bird's first post-season scrim­BROOKLINE, MASS.--The former Indiana State mage Tuesday. 
Larry Bird scrimmaged Wed­star underwent surgery on both nesday for the second consecu­heels Nov. 19 and missed the After Wednesday's session, tive day with his Boston team­last 76 games of the NBA's reg­Rodgers said, "He's had no mates, but Celtics Coach ular season. He was activated major problems. Jimmy Rodgers said his return for the playoffs last Sunday, a 
to game action is a long way move General Manager Jan "You get more optimisticoff. Volk said was made more to when he's out here playing,"Rodgers didn't rule out the have Bird available after the he added. "From what I've possibility of Bird playing in first round, if the Celtics sur­seen over the last two days, it's the first-round playoff series vive it, than to have him to face encouraging. I think he's still against Detroit starting Friday Detroit. a long way away from playing. night. He's coming. Hopefully, that 
"I don't know," Rodgers said "His chances of playing in progress will stay steady in the when asked about Bird playing. the first series are very mini-right direction." 
By CHRIS COONEY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team hopes to end its successful regular season with a sound defeat of Toledo at home this Saturday. 
The 15-6 Irish plan on using their entire line-up in the 9 a.m. meet which will be played out­door on Courtney Courts, wea­ther permitting. Otherwise it will be held in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Notre Dame head coach Michele Gelfman predicts her squad will beat the 7-8 Rockets in the singles com­petition. Non-regulars then will compose the doubles roster, al­though the exact line-up is not known. 
"We want to end the season with a strong victory and we should be able to," said Gelfman. 
The Irish have downed Toledo all six times they have played them and won 8-1 last year. Notre Dame, much im­proved over its 12-14 record last season, should have no trouble dealing with the Rockets. 
The Irish will then have to wait until May 5th, when the NCAA bids come out, to see if they will have a chance at post­season play. Gelfman feels her team proved its strength throughout the year by defeat­ing some tough California schools and downing Big Ten squads that had previously given the Irish trouble. 
"Our record should earn us a bid, but with the politics of the NCAA, you never know," commented Gelfman. "We've proved we can play with most of the Big Ten teams and we've improved so much, it would be great to earn a spot." 
page 14 The Observer Thursday, April 27, 1989 

Irish 
continued from page 16 

to. We just helped them with a few defensive miscues." 
The Irish victory also ended a long draught against Indiana. Going into Tuesday game, Notre Dame had lost its last eight games against the Hoosiers, and Erik Madsen had a personal 0-3 record against them. 
"It's a good accomplishment for the players to beat In­diana," said Murphy, "because they hadn't beaten them. It was another bit of ad-

Women 
continued from page 16 

Again preventing them from scoring and captured their vic­tory 21-0. Laura Brown es­hibited the most experience for the victors with her contribu­tion of 11 baskets. 
Supreme Court ruled out the chances of The Vixens advanc­ing to the final16 with their 21-7 win. Mary Simon dominated the court as lead scorer and top rebounder with 11 points and 5 boards. 
In the North bracket the Nads continued their winning streak as they defeated the Traveling Sleighbells 21-6. Jen­nifer Slosar and Chris Cho­quette each tossed in 8 baskets to help their team to victory. 
We've Got It Put It Through stuck it to Ryan's Rabble Rousers and earned a final 16 competition spot against the Nads with their 21-1 triumph. 
The Secret Service forced Four Freshmen With Lipps to kiss their chances of advancing goodbye as they defeated them 21-10. Rachel Hall set the pace for the Service with her contri­bution of 7 baskets and 10 rebounds. 
The final team earning a semi-final spot was Three of Marv's Rejects and Two of His Stars with thier victory over Five Girls and a Basketball. Linda Garrett had 8 of the points that lead to Marv's 21-8 win. 
The Final 16 round games will be played today at Saint Mary's. Some of the match-ups include Four Dunks and One Dink against Two Words, Hoosier Lawyers facing Aunt Flo 
and save 

10 o/o 
off your 
FIRST MONTHS 
RENTAL 
816 E McKinley 
259-0335 

versity to conquer." 
The Irish were aided by four Indiana errors. In the first in­ning, Notre Dame put two un­
earned runs on the board when Frank Jacobs reached base on a two-out error by the firstbasemen, enabling Cory Mee to score from third. Later, James Sass singled home Ed Lund to make the score 2-0. 
The errors kept pouring in when in the third inning and the score 3-1, Joe Binkiewicz lifted a routine fly ball to rightfield which was dropped, enabling Sass and Craig Counsell to score. 
In the sixth, with one out and the score 6-1, Dan Peltier drew a walk and Lund singled to left. Jacobs followed with a deep fly ball to right that was mis­judged by the rightfielder, al­lowing Peltier and Lund to score. After a pitching change, Sass promptly singled home Jacobs to make the score 9-1. 
Notre Dame added two insur­ance runs in the seventh, which must have awakened the In­diana bats, as the Hoosiers rallied for six runs in the top of the eighth inning. 
The scoring was highlighted by a bases-loaded double by Hoosier co-captain Geoff Flynn that ended the Indiana 

STEREOS • VCRs TVs •BLASTERS CAR STEREO •MICROWAVES 
VACUUMS •REFRIGERATORS PHONES • CD PLAYERS •ALARMS ANSWEmNGMACmNES·MORE APPLIANCES 
draught. Irish reliever Mike Coffey replaced Brian Piotrowicz, and after allowing three consecutive singles, he got Tom Meyers to ground into a doubleplay that ended the ral­ly. 
EXTRA BASES: Murphy is not taking any upcoming game for granted because of Notre Dame's new reputation as a dominating team. Concerning the game with the Chicago State Cougars, Murphy said, "These games become real tough because our pitching is down as far as numbers are concerned and because they've 
to · and we've got nothing to gain. We just need to play consistently. If we play our game we'll beat them" ...Dan Peltier is not let­ting up in his incredible hitting pace. He was 2-for-3 Tuesday with a double and a walk, raising his average to .457 in 41 games. If he were to be hitless in his next 79 at-bats, he would still be hitting .300...James Sass is also a hot hitter for the Irish, enjoying an eight-game hitting streak and batting .408. Sass was 3-for-5 with two RBI yesterday...Slowly creeping up in batting average is Pat Pesavento, who has raised his 
from .314 to .340 . 




~DAYS ONLY 
APRIL 29-30 
FREE 
SATURDAY 10 AM· 9PM
PMKIN~ 
SUNDAY NOON-6PM 
100STORES 
CURTIS MATHES • PHASELINEAR RCA • ALPINE • YAMAHA • JENSEN PIONEER • SANSVI • MAJESTIC DENON • CLARION • REGENCY ROCKFORDIFOSTGATE SANYO • COBRA • CRAIG MAGIC CHEF • MORE 
EXAMPLES OF INCREDIBLE SAVINGS 
ANSWERING MACHINES S 2 9 ~ RADAR DETECTORS s 29
...,...;?" 

240WATTE.Q. S29 AUTO ALARMS s 9 9 MICROWAVE OVENS s 49 
PIONEER 60 Watt 6x9" Speakers S 3 9tPR. SONY WALKMANS S15 ELCTROLUX VACUUM CLEANERS s 299 
2 MOTOR UPRIGHT W/ALL ATTACHMENTS 
-
..-----------------------------------~-----------­
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
Thursday, April 27, 1989 
The Observer page 15 
Noon SMC Justice Education series presents "Concluding 
ACROSS 34AIIow 61 Score for Retton 
Reflections," by Joe Incandela, Stapleton Lounge, SMC. 1 Cutting remark 
37 With 39 Across, 62 Pilots biblical trio 63 Radiate

5 Their pace is 4 p.m. Kellogg Institute lecture "Urban Folklore in Contem­slow 39 See 37 Across 64 Abbr. in a porary Brazilian Cronica," by Heitor Martins, Indiana Uni­
sign-off11 Young fish 41 Openings

versity, Room 131 Decio. 65 Container used 
14ln the Red 42 England, to 
at elevenses 15 Greets the villain 
poets 

66 Colleagues of 4:15p.m. Snite Museum lecture "The Hollywood Star System 16 Savanna 44 Within: Comb E.MK and the Politics of Glamour," by Pam Falkenberg, call239-17 With 23 Across, form 
5516 for reservations. biblical trio 45 Gaelic game 
DOWN
pole

20 Midi or mini 21 Melville book 46 Father, to 1 Strike hard 7 p.m. Communication and Theatre presents Judith Berry, 
Fauntleroy 2 County in N.C.
New York video artist, O'Shaughnessy Loft. 22 Emulate David Frye 47 Place for pairs, 3 Paper quantity as well as a trio 
23 See 17 Across 4 S.D. area 7 p.m. Christian Athlete Fellowship, "Christian Ethics in 50 Bovine chew 
27 Cracks a crate 5 Ladd hit Business," by Jim Early ('76), and "The Secret of the Chri­
51 Peak

30Gavemany 6 Precise 
stian Life," by Bill Freeman, St. Edward's Hall Chapel. 
kudos 
52 Came 
7 Fireplace 31 Comic 56 Place for a trio accumulation

CAMPUS EVENTS 
32 Cruel person above a Tenet 9 Author of "To Kill 
7:30 p.m. Music Department Student Composers concert, a Mockingbird" Snite Museum. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Draft letters 
11 One to carry a8 p.m. Saint Mary's Wind Ensemble, conducted by Roger torch for Briggs, Little Theatre, SMC. 
26 Abstruse 38 Maurice F. H. de 50 Crisp topping 12 Police-blotter 
-,marine

27 Eight, to Pedro 52 Hair style abbr. 
painter 53 Singer Jerry 28 Ex-talk show MENUS 
13 Swift creature 

40Compass from N.Y.C. 18 Tears out readings host 54 Sch. subject29 Columniststitching Bombeck 43 Annoy 55" ... fresh-of
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 19 Neighbor of night": Milton 
32 Kind of toast 45 Kitchen king 
Devonshire Sandwich An Tostal Picnic Guat. 
57 Believer: Suffix 33 Smoldering 46 Sound of a
Baked Ziti Hamburgers 23 Altar 
58 Summer, inpiece of wood well-tuned
Salisbury Steak Hot Dogs constellation Dijon
engine34 Fast time 

Quiche Lorraine Salads 24 Minstrel-show 59 Country-lighting
47 Smartly dressed 

instrument 35 Major or usher org. chaser 48 Earthy pigment 
25 Kind of mineral 60 Slangy water 36 Thunder god 49 Ratifies affirmation 

COMICS 
BLOOM COUNTY BERKE BREATHED 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
BILL WA HERSON 

\.lEi, t-J()t-1., l-lO~ {X) iOu MA.~ COKT PU..~ Yll\1-\ A I.OKG-01'5\~Ct: Ci\Ll rn:::M T\.lt. P\-\Ot-lt., Cf>.LI/1!11. OOR M01tl ~\'<\? Wlb ON O..RU{ 00 1_.,..¥;;:;;.-----y---~-' 'IIJU WAN.T TO C~.L? 
BLOOM COUNTY BERKE BREATHED 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
nit CAACKl£'5 ~0 SN~t"S, Al'lD It: 'bl''4£ 001 A 11-\E Wf!..RM, fliC~.E:RING li~L ~T TIGER 1\JMM~ 10 ~miNG AL'f.I~~S SUMS LIE ~INS\.•,IIEJL.' 
~IT AAD G:>Z.'1 If '101J'Rt.. ­SITIING \~ ~T OF ~ fiR£. 
\ 







~­





Sports
page 16 

Thursday, April 27, 1989 

The Observer I Trey Reymond Dan Peltier (42) and the Notre Dame baseball team made up for their early-season Joss to Indiana Wednesday with an 11-7 victory over the Hoosiers. 
Bookstore Basketball 
Women at final sixteen 

By HEATHER ATKINSON 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

An additional eight teams ad­vanced one step closer to be­coming the 1989 Women's Bookstore Basketball Cham­pions during yesterday's games. 
Spraky's Franchise II, a team chosen to do well in the East bracket at the beginning of the competitoins, easily defeated We've Never Been Scored Upon With a final blow­out score of 21-1 
Kathleen Zassick sank the only basket for her team while Kathleen McDavid paced Sparky's with her contribution of 9 points. 
The J aegermonsters earned the spot against Sparky's Fran­chise II with their 21-6 win over Revenge of Beefer's Chicks. J aegermonsters dominated the boards with Maura Schoshinski pulling down an outstanding 19 rebounds and Audrey George following closely behind with 15 rebounds. Schoshinski also lead her team in scoring with 9 points with Mary Bohmer ac­companying with her 8 points. 
One Girl With Experience towered over 5'3" and Under 
see WOMEN I page 14 

By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame baseball team reasserted itself by defeating Indiana 11-7 behind an impressive 18-hit attack at Jake Kline Field on Wednes­day. 
Every batter in the lineup had at least one hit, and the pitching staff held the Hoosiers to one run until the eighth in­ning. 
The victory comes at a cru­cial point in the season for the Irish (31-10), as they dropped three games out of four this past weekend against MCC East rival Detroit. The team bounced back quickly instead of going into a prolonged slump. 
"This was a vitally impor­tant victory in all senses of the word," said Irish head coach Pat Murphy. "This shows me that this team has guts, this team has an identity, that they won't take losing sitting down. They don't care who they're playing the next day, they won't be satisfied with losing and won't get scared, playing with their hands around their necks." 
Next up for the Irish is an away game with Chicago State today, whom the Irish beat ear­lier this season 7-1. 
In the victory against In­diana, starting pitcher Erik Madsen went five innings and allowed one run to raise his record to 7-3, yielding four hits and striking out four. 
"I think Madsen pitched beautifully," said Murphy. 


tournaments near finish 
Adworks survives scare to advance to round of eight 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The top seed finally got a test Wednesday in Bookstore Bas­
ketball  XVIII.  The  team  
passed,  but  not  with  flying  
colors.  

Adworks All-Stars struggled and clawed its way to a 21-15 win over The Good, The Bad and The Laundry to advance to the quarterfinals. It was the first time in the tourney a team had scored in double figures against the defending cham­pions. 
"We didn't expect an easy game," John Buscher said. "You can't expect to win 21-7 every game. Every game from here on out is going to be close." 
At one point, this game was more than close. The teams were tied at 15-15 before Ad­works ran off six unanswered points to seal the victory. 
"We've got such good ath­letes that we just picked it up at the end of the game," Bus­cher said. 
Adworks connected on 21-of­59 from the field, its worst shooting outing of the tourney. Tony Rice led the team with eight points, while Derrick Johnson tossed in five. 
Doug Bunn led The Good, The Bad and The Laundry with six hoops. 
The No. 2 seed, Malicious Prostitution, got past Air Check and Ground Support by a 21-15 count. It was also the first big test for Malicious Prostitution, easy winners in their previous games. 
"I didn't think we played that well," Joe Scott said. "The past few games, we've gotten off to slow starts. But as the game goes on, we play a little bit bet­ter." 
Scott paced the winners with seven points, while John Bergman tossed in five. Gary Leonard scored six points in a losing cause for Air Check and Ground Support. 
Malicious Prostitution will meet No "I" in Team, 21-16 winners over Bennitt's Buffet. Pete Dales keyed No "I' with 6-of-8 shooting. 
Killer Bees continued its roll with a 21-19 win over Rodan, Sky and 3 Guys Who Can Fly. The Bees will have a big test with their next opponent, the top-seeded Adworks. 
Murphy's Bar, the No.3 seed, 
see HOOPS I page 11 

''He gave us just what we were whipped 10-0, but this needed--five good innings from time it was a different story. a starter. You've got to remem­"The first time we played ber that he threw 110 pitches them we played our best game on Saturday (in the 1-0 loss to of the year,'' said Indiana head Detroit) and I wasn't going to coach Bob Morgan. "We leave him in when he got in played as sound as we could trouble." possibly play. In this game, we 
struggled defensively. But you 

This was the second time that have to give Notre Dame cred­Madsen pitched against the it, because they got the hits and Hoosiers. Last time, the Irish drove in the runs when they had encountered Indiana when it 
see IRISH I page 14 

was at the top of its game and 
But Ryan doesn't need a curveball if he is blowing 98 mile-per-hour bullets past opposing batters. He proved this again Sunday night when he came within two outs of no­hitting the Toronto Blue Jays in a 4-1 victory. 
This time it was Nelson Liriano, a .208 hitter, who spoiled Ryan's night. Liriano pulled a fastball int? the right f~eld corner with one out in the bottom of the mnth for a triple which ruined Ryan's 12-strikeout performance. 
But Ryan, who leads the majors with 38 strikeouts, is just one of many success stories on this rejuvenated Rangers ballclub. Pitchers Jamie Moyer and Bobby Witt are both 3-0 and have been major contributors on a pitching staff which boasts the lowest ERA in the American League. 
see RYAN I page 12 






