
VOL. XXIII NO. 27 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Malloy talks to faculty 
State of University lauds NO staff 
teaching faculty as positive
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
steps taken in the last few years. University President Father "We have seen a steady im­
Assistant News Editor 
provement in the pe,centage of
Edward Malloy covered topics such as academics and funding women on the faculty," said as well as topics as diverse as Malloy. He was not as pleased 
parking and his role as Univer­in respect to the recruitment of minority faculty: "This is a na­
sity President, in the state of tional problem, and I mightthe University address to the 
faculty Monday. add, a national disgrace." The University has estab­
• Faculty response I page 3 lished some goals in respect to minority faculty recruitment 
Malloy focused first on the and Malloy said that the admin­academic side of the University istration will do its best to see including the faculty, the aca­that the goals are reached. demic infrastructure "that pro­A pivotal change in the com­vides the proper tools and con­position of the faculty is the text for the faculty's work," addition of 60 endowed profes­and the institutes and centers sorships and 40 more in a of Notre Dame as well as the lesser stage of funding, said graduate and undergraduate Malloy. 
programs. "We continue to struggle with 
"In my opinion the quality certain dilemmas that inflict and productivity of our faculty higher education in general. We has never been higher," said have not yet arrived at a fully Malloy. adequate system to prepare, 
He said that standards for monitor and reward graduatehiring and promotions have students and/or young facultybeen raised. As a result, ac­as teachers in-a classroom and cording to Malloy, Notre Dame laboratory that is comprable to is in a better position to com­what prevails through their pete for research grants and to scholarly endeavors." exercise leadership roles in Malloy said that the facultyscholarly societies. has not achieved a parity in 
"Notre Dame's faculty has teaching loads across disci­
become more visable, better re­plines and colleges. He also spected and more influential," said that large class sizes are a Malloy stated. problem and make for imper­
He cited improvements in sonal classroom situations. faculty salaries and additions 
to the regular, research and see STATE I page 5 
AP Photo 

Reading the news 
While his colleague examines passing vehicles, a soldier reads the news on the death of the ousted President Ferdinand Marcos at a military checkpoint in Santiago. The "Marcos loyalists" are now on their third night vigil to urge the Government to allow Marcos' body to be buried in his hometown i~ northern Philippines. 

AP Photo
National Day fireworks display 
Fireworks explode over Beijing's Great Hall of the People du~ng a celebration of the 40th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China Sunday night at Tiananmen Square. 
Provost hears minority complaints 
By SANDY WIEGAND planned. Street Blues on October 11, and News Copy Editor John Hamill was approved as the Senior Block Party is being Student Senate Parliamentary planned. 
The first meeting of minority for the 1989-90 academic year The Junior Class formal is on club presidents to assess the during the meeting. Friday. method of filing complaints A Student Senate representa­The Sophomore Class will be against faculty for racially of­tive of Saint Mary's said that a raffling two tickets for the Mi­fensive remarks took place at newsletter giving more cover­ami game, and Sophomore the Student Senate meeting age to Saint Mary's activities is Class Night at Bruno's Pizza is Monday. being planned. Saint Mary's has on Oct.5. 
There is a formal method of also been discussing activities The Freshman Class will have filing complaints to the for Alcohol Awareness Week, its next meeting on Wednesday provost's office, said Student which is the week of Oct. 15 to and Dean Emil Hoffman will be Body President Matt Breslin, 21. present. The class will have an but in the past it has mainly Upcoming activities men­outing with the Sophomore been applied to cases of sexual tioned by organization repre­Class at Beacon Bowl on Oct. harassment. According to Fa­sentatives include a Hall Presi­19. ther Oliver Williams, associate dent's Council Family Focus The Student Senate has re­provost, racist statements have meeting on Oct. 4 at which Fa­ceived suggestions for an off­not been much of a problem ther Michael Himes will speak campus SYR dance, and is con­here previously. of "The Catholic Family in sidering arranging one. The 
Steffanie Keller was approved Translation." Senate is also looking for a as chairperson for campus me­The National Association of means of remedying the limited dia reports. The committee's Graduate Students will hold availability of the Careers goal will be to examine Notre their Midwest Regional Confer­Placement Library, which is Dame media through speaking ence from Oct. 6 to 8. Regis­presently open on weekdays to members of both printed and tration is Friday, and the con­from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. broadcast media to find out ference will include a lecture on The roles of Student Senators specifics about policies and in­Saturday by Thomas Linney . and Cabinet were discussed re­formation about money and The Senior Class cruise on the cently. Many cabinet members readership. "Spirit of Chicago" is Friday. expressed a wish for indepen­
A survey of students and fac­Departure time has been dence and the ability to become ulty regarding the effectiveness changed to 8 p.m. The Senior involved in a more diverse vari­of the various media is also Class will be going Center ety of issues. 
Saint Mary's celebrates annual Fall Fest 
By KATIE MOORE supplied for Thursday's activity Blajda said. News Staff and Fall Fest T-shirts and cups Blajda also reported on a will be available on Friday. meeting with the Director of 
An all-school picnic kicked off Saint Mary's Security Depart­Saint Mary's Fall Fest Monday, The Board of Student Affairs ment Richard Chlebek. "The reported Mary Beth Blajda, vice also discussed the formation of meeting was very positive. He president of student affairs, a Notre Dame Liason Commit­wanted to know of any way he 
\during the Board of Student tee to open communication be­could help us," said Blajda. Affairs meeting. tween Saint Mary's and Notre Dame's Student Government. Among the topics discussed, 
Fall Fest activites continue on Concentration on improving re­better lighting on the walkway Tuesday with the movie lations between women at Saint between the parking lot and "Rainman." The world's biggest Mary's and Notre Dame was McCandless Hall was focused Twister game will be the activ­emphasized. on. ity for Wednesday. "We're go­ing to attempt to break the "Since this is an all-women's Ideas for the promotion of record, so all are welcome," college, we would like to share the National Alcohol Awareness said Blajda. all of our programs which are Week, which is planned to run 
geared towards WOilltln with in­from Oct. 15 through Oct.21, Beverage gardens will be terested Notre Dame students," were also discussed. 
page 2 The Observer 

Good things come to he who 'power naps' 
WORLD BRIEFS 

At 6 feet tall and 200 pounds. Igor Ladan, age 7, is still growing. He's come thousands of miles from his native Soviet Union in hopes doctors can remove a dangerous tumor from his skull and stop his abnormal growth. At the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., surgeons plan to remove a rare pituitary gland tumor from the boy doctors call a "pituitary giant." 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
Ever since I came to Notre Dame, I adhered to 
one basic rule which has governed my academic 
career: 
"When the going gets tough, the tough go to 
sleep." 
Anytime, anyplace, any day -there's nothing 
that can beat a quality nap. Naps fall into two 
categories: marathon naps and power naps. 
A marathon nap is by far the best kind of nap you can take. You simply turn off the lights, draw the shades, take the phone off the hook, curl up in bed and tell everyone you'll wake up "whenever." Since there's no time limit to a marathon nap, it is quite possible that you can take a nap in the afternoon and not wake up until the next morning. Sure, you may miss out on turning in a crucial homework assignment, but won't you feel refreshed? 
A power nap follows the same basic rules as a marathon nap, but in this case you set your alarm clock to go off after a specified amount of time. Power naps are a great way to kill time be­tween classes or they can rev you up for a long night of studying. 
A common problem which often hampers the quality of one's nap is the noise level outside the door (let's say your neighbors like to play Rick Astley-the scourge of humankind-really loud) or visitors dropping by your room. This can be remedied by what is known as the "nap note." Pull out a sheet of paper, write down your per­sonal message to the rest of the world, and tape the note to your door. 
Most nap notes say something like, "Shh. Don't knock, I'm sleeping." This is appropriate but it hardly instills fear in the hearts of anyone pass­ing by your door. Here are some stronger ex­amples: 
"It's time for my nap-GO AWAY!" 
"This doorknob is coated with battery acid­don't even think about entering." 
"Unless you live here -GET OUT!" 
"Nap in progress. Room is guarded by a fero­cious bear." 
"Do not disturb. Violators will experience se­vere physical pain." 
Get the picture? Very soon, everyone in your 

'When the going gets tough, the tough go to sleep.· 
Robyn Simmons Assistant Accent Editor 
section will learn to respect your napping rights and run screaming once they see you put the note up on the door. 
By now you might be saying, "It sounds great, but I don't have time for naps." Sure you do! There are a lot of things we do every day that can be replaced by a quality nap. 
Just find out that the Dining Hall is serving ha~burgers for the third time this week? Save your arteries and take a nap instead. Do you watch your soaps every day? Take a nap! You can watch the same soap once a month and still know what's going on. 
Just pulled an all-nighter and you have a bor­ing class late in the afternoon? Take a nap and borrow someone else's notes. Planning on jog­ging around campus? Take a nap! Sure, you won't burn off as many calories, but if you sleep through your meals too you won't need to jog. 
I hope that this column has portrayed impor­tance of n;1pping and has inspired many of you to join me in napping the school year away. Once you've mastered your napping skills, you can make naps a part of your weekly schedule, just as if they were another class. To sleep, per­chance to dream, is a wonderful way to tem­porarily escape the sometimes mundane life of a student. Sweet dreams! 
Robyn Simmons is a junior American Studies major and assistant accent editor of The Ob­server. The opinion expressed in the Inside col­umn belongs to the author and is not necessarily the opinion of The Observer. 

Drug abuse has been identified as the nation's greatest problem by 61 percent of those surveyed in the Media General-As­sociated Press poll. Nearly one-third of American adults know someone who uses cocaine, but most say drug abuse is not a seri­ous problem in their own neighborhoods, a poll has found. While President Bush pursues a multibillion-dollar war on illegal drugs, saying they are "sapping our strength as a nation," just 14 per­cent in the survey called the problem "very serious" where they livP.. 
PTL founder Jim Bakker testified Monday at his fraud trial that he and his wife, Tammy, accepted $3.1 million in bonuses while the ministry's finances foundered. Bakker said PTL board members granted the bonuses "of their own free will" and often told him, "I was worth much more than this, and they would say that over and over again.' The disgraced television evangelist testified that he raised more than $425 million for PTL from 1984 to 1987, when he and his wife received $3.1 million in bonuses. 
Under the modest title -"The First Really Important Survey of American Habits" -Poretz and Sinrod have compiled the answers to the questions that have been burning holes in their curiosity. Do you put on both socks and then both shoes, or put a sock and shoe on one foot and then the other? When visiting a friend's house and the shower curtain is closed, do you look be­hind it? While the better-known pollsters are asking Americans their political preferences or their thoughts on the great issues of the world, a couple of New Yorkers are raising questions that in­quiring minds really want answered. 
The Sony Walkman. the Dictaphone and the Braun cof­feemaker were successful industrial designs that are the focus of designers gathered to look for an edge on products of the future in Cambridge, Mass. Those products succeeded because their companies took their industrial designers seriously, said Earl Powell, director of the Design Management Institute of Boston, which is conducting a four-day symposium with the Harvard Business School. Most business managers say they use engineers or others to create a product, and "then get the flakes to get the color picked out," Powell said. 
INDIANA BRIEFS 
OF INTEREST 
Get cultured all week when the world comes to Notre Dame for the fourth annual Multicultural Fall Festival. Every day Monday ­Friday from 12-1 p.m. on the Fieldhouse Mall NO ethnic organizations share their culture as part of "Culture on the Quad." Ethnic music and dancing follows with "Entertainment on the Quad" at 4:30 p.m. 
Post Graduation Opportunities Night for seniors is today from 7-10 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. Stop. by to see what choices 

The Indiana Ku Klux Klan leader was arrested on weapons charges after he was stopped for traffic violations near Poughkeepsie, N.Y. , police said Sunday. Douglas Tuttle, 24, of Farmersburg, Ind., was charged Saturday with felony and misde­meanor weapons possession counts after police found a handgun and a club in his car, said state police Investigator John Odell. In­vestigators identified Tuttle as the grand dragon of Indiana's KKK, a white supremacy group, Odell said. 
An escapee from the Westville Correctional Center was captured Sunday near Valparaiso by Porter County sheriff's deputies, authorities said. Anthony Davis, 24, was serving time for robbery out of Lake County and was reported missing Saturday night, authorities said. After a car chase, Davis was captured without incident and returned to Westville. 
you have after graduation. Juniors are also welcome. 
Senior block party chairperson and ex­ecutive committee will be forming this week. Anyone interested in planning and organizing this event should stop by the Senior Class Office by Tuesday, Oct. 3 for more information and free popcorn. The office is open from 3-5 p.m. every week day. 
--~e-O.bse.~70r--­
---=-.1-=l' ---A-=Y~._, -. ­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000} os publtshell Monday through Froday except durong exam and vacatoon peroods The Observer IS published by students of lhe Unoversity of Notre Dame and Saont Marys College Subscnpl10ns may be pur· chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by wn11ng The Observer 
The Observer os a member of The Assocoatec Press All reproduction roghts are reserved 
Design Editor ........................... Kathy Gliwa Design Assltant ............. Cheever Griffin Typesetter........ Bernard Brenninkmeyer News Editor...................... Christine Walsh News Copy Editor........... Janice O"Leary Sports Copy Editor.•••••.•... Ken Tysiac. VIewpoint Copy Editor......... Kim Skiles VIewpoint Layout .••.•..• Molly Schwartz Accent Editor ..................... Colleen Cronin Accent Copy Editor Stephanie Snyder ND Day Editor ........... Maria Reda Ads Designer Mindy Breen, Shelia Jones, Anita Covelli. Mary Sain 

WEATHER 
Cloudy and cool 
Considerable cloudiness and very cool Tuesday with some sprinkles or drizzle possible. Highs from 50 to 55. Clearing and cold Tuesday night with frost possible. Lows from the lower to middle 30s. Sunny and warmer Wednesday. Highs from 55 to 60. 

ALMANAC MARKET UPDATE 
On October 3: 
e In 1863: President Lincoln M•rk•t Upd•t• for October Z, 1989 declared the last Thursday in November Thanksgiving Day. e In 1922: Rebecca Felton of 

Volume in shares 

Georgia became the first 
127.4 Million 

woman to be seated in the U.S. 
Senate. e In 1981: Irish nationalists at the Maze prison near NYSE Index Belfast, Northern Ireland, 194.90 '{}> 0.93 ended seven months of hunger S&P Composite strikes that had claimed ten 355.00 {t 2.40 lives. Dow Jones Industrials e In 1984: Attorneys for Vice 2,713.72 {t 20.90 
President Bush revealed the In­
Precious Metals

ternal Revenue Service had di­rected Bush to pay an addi­Gold +$0.10to$372.10/oz. tional $198,000 in taxes and in­
Silver+ 0.7¢ to $5.3031 oz. 

terest following an audit of his 1981 tax returns. 
................................................................ 

Observer classifieds will be accepted from
Happy Birthday Today is Laura S.'s birthday. Call her up and wish her a happy one. By the way 


9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 
Laura, we do expect to see you dancing 


LaFortune.
11 on pool tables tonight. II 

{"E.£ i)ICI< DRINk 



Don't drink 
.. 



and drive 


Information compoled from Observer wores and Observer staff reports 
' ' ' . .-'''-"--''-"--' 


-·--~ ~--------~-------­

Associated Press 
PRAGUE, Czechoslovakia ­A West German diplomat res­cued an East German grabbed by a policeman Monday as he tried to scale a fence into Bonn's mission. However, most Czechoslovak police re­laxed their controls, letting hundreds more refugees enter the compound as a new diplomatic dispute built up over the issue. 
East German refugees inside the embassy said they num­bered more than 2,000 by late Monday and more than 100 additional refugees were ar­riving hourly. 
In a formal protest delivered to West German Chancellor 

How~re you going to do it? 
"I gueS! irs jusr you ancl me, Coach. 
Come to the Fair and save on the IBM PS/2. 
Meet the IBM Personal Svstem/2® and find out how easy it is to use. With the PS/2,® you can get your work done and still have tim~ for fun. You can organize your notes, write and revise your papers, and create smart-looking graph­ics to make a good report even better. And best of all, you can get a PS/2 at a special student price that's more than fair. 
Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune Wednesday, Oct. 4 7 to 9 p.m. -or-Notre Dame Computer Store Computer Center and Math Building Monday thru Friday, 9a.m. to Sp.m. 
Register to win: Bruno's Pizza 1989 Jeep Wrangler (details at N.D. Computer Store) 
Helmut Kohl's office, East German envoy Horst Neubauer said his government demanded that the new refugees be "turned out of the embassy and returned to East Germany." 
The latest rush came after 7,000 East Germans were al­lowed to leave West German embassies in Prague and War­saw over the weekend for West Germany. 
More than 32,000 East Ger­mans have arrived in West Germany since Sept. 10, when Hungary opened its western border with Austria and the numbers of refugees occupy­ing Bonn's embassies swelled. 
On Monday, both East Ger­many and Czechoslovakia ac­
~· r'-"\r



(__rJ?_, 


PS/2 it! 
cused West Germany of breaking its word by harbor­ing new refugees, going back on conditions it agreed to in gaining release of the earlier refugee throng. 
Kohl spokesman Hans Klein denied any such agreement. And Peter Rothen, a spokesman for the Bonn Foreign Ministry, insisted West Germany "never told the East Germans it would stop taking in East Germans seek­ing refuge." 
West German officials said 
they would press East Berlin to let the new arrivals leave for the West. 


ND faculty reacts to State of the University 
By SARAH VOIGT News Copy Editor 
Faculty representatives from many academic departments expressed their questions and concerns about University President Father Edward Mal­loy's State of the University ad­dress, at the Faculty Senate meeting on Monday. 
First, the Faculty Senate voted to continue the research and progress of the Report and Recommendations Committee on the Status of Women. 
The adopted resolution rec­ommends the establishment of a standing committee to moni­tor the status of women in all facets of the University in order to target specific concerns for improvement. This Committee would report to top level ad­ministrators in monthly ses­sions during the first two years, according to the report. 
One professor cited the new drug and alcohol and sexual harassment policies as deci­sions that the administration made with little if any consul­tation with the Faculty Senate. He said that the Faculty Senate should have had more input in the formulation of these two important decisions. 
Malloy responded that in the unusual case of the drug and alcohol policy, the administra­tion was forced to act quickly due to legal and financial con­straints. Malloy said, "We were required by the federal govern­ment to have a policy quickly at the risk of losing funds. Also, the terms were very structured and previously devised." 
Malloy explained that sexual harassment was another issue of pressing concern, and the administration hopes to be consistent with the policies of other universities. Malloy said that the administration acted in response to the recommenda­tions of tw,o task forces who researched this problem on campus. 
Malloy encouraged faculty members to use the Faculty Se-
Endless opportunities 
There's no limit to your career opportunities with Vista Chemical Company, one of America's newest Fortune 500 companies. Recruiters will be on campus October 19 and 20 seeking qualified science and engineering students for our Business Career Development Program. Sign up for an interview at Career & Placement Services today. 
VISTA 
Vista Chemical Company, Houston, Texas 
4n Equal Opporkmity Employer M/F 
nate forum to volunteer policies on important issues before they become emergencies. "My job is not to think up policies," Malloy said. "Most policies come out of emergencies or events . " 
Associate Librarian Margaret Porter asked Malloy what kinds of expanded services the Hes­burgh Library could expect to receivtJ in the next few years. Malloy cited personnel as the library's weakest area accord­ing to a recent survey. "I per­sonally believe that the fastest way we could make library im­provements would be to add personnel instead of (other) re­sources," said Malloy. 
One professor asked Malloy why so many of the institutes and centers on campus were underfunded. Malloy explained the University policy that cam­pus institutes had to stand on their own resources made up of endowments and grants. 
Malloy said that most insti­tutes will not be underfunded despite the "slow incubation process" that many of the donors undergo before they submit funds. "With the proper publicity and a good cultivation and cooperation of resources, the centers' leaders can get what they need as long as the organization that they repre­sent has a respectable and ex­citing purpose," Malloy said. 
Kathleen Biddick, associate professor of history, voiced the concern of many students about "incidents of demeaning sexual harassment" on campus. Malloy attributed the recent awareness about incidents of sexism to the increasingly visi­ble role of women in leadership positions on campus. "The presence of women in larger numbers now can diffuse the stereotypes that still prevail," said Malloy. 
In response to a question concerning the Faculty Senate's role in administrative decision making and its effectiveness, Malloy explained the purpose of the senate. 


page 4 The Observer 
Bush, Mubarak discussArab-Israeli relations 
Cantpus Ministry and You 


(?MPUS

----------------------MINISTRY­
NEVER AGAIN! 
Looking out the Munich hotel's window, the visitor saw the horizon lined with the steeples of at least 12 different churches. They were old churches, and had clearly been there 50 years earlier, sitting just as silently. Perhaps more so. 
Later, in the lobby, the porter handed the visitor a slip of paper: 
"By public transportation: STREETCAR NO. 20 for TIVOLISTR. to JSARTORPLATZ, SUBURBAN THAIN "52" to PETERSHAUSEN -get ofT at DACHAU. BUS 3 to camp. ENGLISH FILM 11:30 am and 3:30pm. 
RETUHN: BUS 3/S2 to ISARTORPLATZ, STREETCAH 20 to EFFNERPLATZ. On Monday the camp is closed." ·· 
The visitor went through the tiny village of Dachau (about seven miles from the camp itself) reading a leaflet prepared by the village's equivalent of a chamber of commerce cum tourism bureau. We didn't know, the leaflet said. We weren't responsible. We are people just like you, and had we known, we would have put a stop to it. It's not our fault. 
What they didn't know was that for 12 years, as close to their village as the Michiana airport is to Notre Dame -closer to their village than the Ethanol plant is from here -was the first of Hitler's concentration camps, where at least 206,206 persons were incarcerated and forced to endure suiTering, misery and torture at least as bad as has been experienced by human beings since time began. Many thousands more were executed. 
What was their crime? Why were these people exposed to unmerciful inhumanity? What had they done to earn such brutality and horror? 
In essence, their crime was that they did not fit the pronJe of the average citizen. They did not behave, look, think, or believe in a manner consistent with the acts, looks, thoughts and beliefs of those who were In power, who were in charge. Most of those interned were Jewish. Others were of different races, religions and cultures or were publicly opposed to the activities of the Third Reich. 
The norm In Nazi Germany was that if someone did not fit the norm, if someone deviated in any way -great or small -from the standard, that someone was to be rejected by society in terms as precise and as much without equivocation as the society could dream (nightmare) up. 
At what was then the camp entrance the visitor read the sign "ARBEIT MACHT FREI" -work makes freedom. Those who entered were made to think that they had committed crimes against the state and would pay for them by working for the state. This would earn them freedom. 
Such thinking was, of course, illusory. Work was not the primary occupation of the camp occupant; misery was. Fifty-six years after the first persons walked through that gate, the visitor saw and felt the horror that must have been theirs. With other visitors, all silent and all very aware of the evil they were experiencing, could also be seen, in four languages, the words "never again." 
The story of Dachau has been better told in other contexts. It should be read and listened to. Leaving, and ever since, the visitor has reflected: never again? In some ways, still. Those who differ from the norm of groups are still not even well tolerated by those groups. Those who differ from us as individuals are not even tolerated by us. We do not learn from them. Rather, they are often ridiculed and mocked, dismissed and excluded -often in subtle, sometimes In blunt, ways. Apartheid. Discrimination. Thoughtlessness. Racism, sexism, homophobia. 
Too often, It seems, persons or groups that do not fit the norms of the majority are considered to . be less than the majority In terms of worth and are excluded or used by the majority until discarded. After a day spent In reflection and prayer, the visitor left the concentration camp, knowing full well that there is no return from Dachau. The camp is never closed on Monday or any other day. 
A number of events are being celebrated at Notre Dame in the coming weeks: Rosh Hashanah (the Jewish New Year), Yom Kippur and Multi-cultural Week. The New Year (5750) begins with celebration, followed by a period of atonement, Yom Kippur. Multi-cultural Week celebrates rather than deplores the differences In people, groups and cultures and hopes to find ways for each of us to redefine ourselves through integration of the differences between ourselves and others. 
There's the legend of the Lamed Vovnik, the Just Man. In every generation a just man rises up who takes upon himself all the sin and suffering of the world and , through power of tears, lays that sin and suffering at the feet of the Lord, who forgives. That is why the world goes on, according to the legend, In spite of sin. 
Thinking of the events of Dachau, we think of the atonements we might make for our own sins of monoculturalism -our own exclusions of persons, ideas and concepts that do not immediately fit our own world view. Then, we might enter the New Year committed to the eternal process of moving beyond ourselves to others. One key way might be to Involve ourselves in the Crop Walk for hunger . (see events on right) 

First Week of October-Multicultural Week Second Week of October-Alcohol Awareness Week 
Wednesday. October 4 Feast of St. Francis Peace Prayer Distribution, sponsored by Pax Christi, Women United for Peace and Campus Ministry 
Fireside Chat: "The Importance of Maintaining Family Ties in the African-American Family." Noon, ISO Lounge. 
''Women Exploring Beauty" Lecture Series. 12:15, LeMans Hall, SMC. 
Evening Prayer, 5:00 PM, Siegfried Hall. Sr. Annette Giarrante, OSF-presider. Rev. Regis Duffy, OSF -homilist 
Bread and Soup Meal -Center for Social Concerns-6:00PM 
Thursday. October 5 
"Feminist Spirituality," Rosemary Houghton. Noon, ISO Lounge 
"Academic Freedom in Catholic Higher Education," Rev. Charles E. Curran. 8:00 PM, Library Auditorium. 
October 6-7 
Marriage Retreat -Fatima Retreat Center -For information call Campus Ministry at 5242. 

Friday. October 6 
David Lippman, folk singer/comedian. 7:30PM Theodore's 

Saturday. October 7 
Eurcharist 5:00PM at Stepan Center. Rev. John Lahey, C.S.C 
presider. Notre Dame Women's Choir. 

Sunday. October 8 
Eucharist 10:00 AM at Stepan Center. Rev. John Lahey, C.S.C. 
presider. Notre Dame Liturgical Choir. 
Eucharist 11:45 AM at Stepan Center. Rev. Thomas Gaughan, 
C.S.C presider. Notre Dame Folk Choir. This liturgy begins the St. Joseph County Crop Walk for Hunger. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Egyptian President llosni Mubarak nwt with President Bush Monday on Mideast peace efforts and said hc saw a "golden opportunity" for a brcakthrough bctween Is­rcwl and the Palcstinians. 
Mubarak said failing to seize tlw opportunity "would be a gravn mistakn" and that he and Bush agreed "to work closely together in ordcr to utilizc the existing momentum." 
"The continuation of the sta­tus quo is hazardous to both" Israel and the Palestinians, the Egyptian leader told reporters after an Oval Office session lasting nearly an hour. 
Ilowever. even as Mubarak sought to promote his plan, which includes a demand that Israel agree in prineipal to giv­ing up seized lands, aides to Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir said the Israeli leader does not intend to alter his own Pales­tinian peace initiative. 
Monday's White House ses­sion came amid new concern that settling Jewish immigrants from the Soviet Union in the Is­raeli-occupied West Bank could threaten peace efforts. 
Bush administration oflidals reacted coolly to an Israeli re­quest for $400 million in hous­ing loan guarantees for about 100,000 Jewish emigres from the Soviet Union. Israeli offi­cials have said some dwellings probably will be in the West Bank. 
"The United States policy is to oppose additional settle­ments in the occupied terr·ito­ries," Secretary of State James Baker Ill said. And Presidential Press Secretary Marlin Fitzwa­ter declared, "Our policy is we don't allow U.S. aid to be used\ 
for  resettlement  in  the  West  
Bank."  
Still.  Baker  and  Mubarak  

were both upbeat about peace prospects. 
"I think it's fair to say that we all hope that conditions ex­ist for progress," said Baker. 
The Egyptian president, after his meeting with Bush, Baker and Vice President Dan Quayle, said: "We believe the potential is great for further progress.... It would be a grave mistake to miss the golden opportunity ex­isting today." 
In Jerusalem, Yossi Ahimeir, a spokesman for Shamir, said the Israeli leadcr dons not in­tend to alter his own peacc plan despite pressure from Egypt, the United States or the rival Israeli Labor Party. 
"Only fiv~>. months have passed" since Shamir prnsented his plan for elections as a first step toward negotiations, and thn prime minister "does not see any reason to change it," the spokesman said. 
Shamir's plan calls for elec­tions in the occupied territories to choose delegates for negoti­ations with Israel. However, fi­nal status on the lands occu­pied by Israel sincn the 1967 Middln East war would bP dn­eided later. 
M u barak told reporters lwre tlw essential next step in the peace process is to persuade the Israelis and the Palnstinians to enter into a dialogue "without preconditions." 
Mubarak's meeting camP as the United States was sneking to persuade a reluctant lsranl to op1m discussions with Palns­tinians based on Mubarak's proposals. 
U.S. officials regard the 10­point Egyptian plan as a com­plmnnnt to Sharnir's proposal for nlnetions in whieh Palestini­ans would select representa­tives to negotiate with Israel on limit1~d snlf-govnrnnwnt in the occu 
Brought to you weekly by the Office of Campus Ministry and The Observer 
Tuesday, October 3, 1989 
The Observer 

Supreme Court in session 
Controversial cases loom on judicial horizon 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON The Supreme Court, embarking on a term laced with controversial issues, said Monday it will de­cide whether police nationwide may use sobriety checkpoints in trying to curb drunken drivers. 
The case accepted by the court. which poses the question of whether police officers may use checkpoints to spot drunken drivers, presents the latest test of strength for the court's newly solidified conser­vative majority. 
Michigan courts struck down that state's sobriety checkpoint program as an unconstitutional invasion of privacy, but courts in other states have upheld vir­tually identical police tactics. 
In its usual start-of-term nurry, the court issued orders in more than 1,000 cases ­denying review to most and agreeing to study 22. They will be among 150 or so disputes to be decided by the end of the term in July. 
The court also heard argu­ments in a Yonkers, N.Y. de­segregation case centering on four city councilmen who voted against a judge's order to pass a legislative package designed to lure subsidized housing to the city's white neighborhoods. 
In addition to that civil rights case. the justices are looking ahead to a term in which they have agreed to decide thorny right-of-privacy arguments in three abortion disputes and the high court's first "right to die" controversy. 
In other action on the first day of its term, the justices: 
• 
Agreed to decide in an Illi­nois case whether public em­ployers may be forced to put aside partisanship when hiring, promoting and transferring employees. 

• 
Turned down the appeals of eight Mafia figures from New York City convicted in the 1979 assassinations of crime chief­tain Carmine Galante and two of his associates. 

• 
Left intact Maryland's revo­cation of a $300,000-a-year tax break for a men-only golf club that has counted presidents and members of Congress among its members. 

• 
Refused to spare an evan­gelical Christian group in Lenox, Mass., from having to return $5.5 million donated by a wealthy ex-member. 

• 
Rejected Alaska's attempt to forestall offshore oil and gas exploration in Bristol Bay. The state had argued that an oil spill there could do more envi­ronmental harm than the mas­sive Exxon Valdez spill last March. 

• 
Allowed states to criminally prosecute employers accused of neglecting the health and safety of their employees. The justices, without comment, let stand a ruling in an Illinois case that federal workplace regulations do not bar such state prosecu­tions. 


The use of police sobriety checkpoints in Michigan was attacked shortly after state po­lice began using them in 1986. The program was modeled after one used in Maryland. 
At a checkpoint site, police directed all traffic headed in one direction to a roadside 
area where officers checked 
motorists for signs of intoxica­
tion. 
If there was no immediate 
evidence of intoxication, the 
motorist was given a traffic 
safety brochure and allowed to 
drive away. The average delay 
was about 30 seconds. 
If signs of intoxication were detected, a driver was directed to another area for further questioning and perhaps a breath test. 
At one such checkpoint, Michigan state police troopers checked 126 vehicles in less than an hour and detained two drivers for sobriety field tests. One driver was arrested on drunken-driving charges. 
The state police department was sued soon after the check­point program began. The law­suit alleged that the check­points violated the Fourth Amendment's ban on unrea­sonable police searches and seizures. 
State courts banned the checkpoints, citing "the poten­tial for an unreasonable, sub­jective intrusion on individual liberty interests." 
In defending the checkpoint program, Michigan Attorney General Frank Kelley told the justices that fighting drunken driving is a "grave and legiti­mate public interest." 
He said Michigan's checkpoint program is valid even if it is not the most effective police procedure available or may carry the "potential of generat­ing fear and surprise in some motorists." 
page 5 



I II I II 

AP Photo 

A helicopter lifts the 30 foot-tall NBC peacock sign to the top of the new 38-story network headquarters in downtown Chicago on Saturday. 
ment and the earth sciences de­the academic side that can interaction," said Malloy. partment. more profoundly effect the fu­
He said that some of the Uni­



State 
ture quality of the University."
"Obviously bricks and mor­versity's institutes and centers 
continued from page 1 
tar, while important, may not The final issue concerning are underfunded or "still 
Finally Malloy said that the be a proper or adequate gauge academics was the "pending searching for their proper faculty needs to talk among of the academic direction and crisis in instrumentation for place in the academic mission themselves in some organized vitality of the Institution," he research." Malloy specifically of the University." fashion about the structure of said. spoke of the costs of keeping "The greatest danger is that courses and tie it into the rest Malloy spoke of the relatively Notre Dame competitive in re­they will exist on the parameter of the curriculum. low rating of the Hesburgh Li­search areas. of things without influence and 
He addressed the subject of brary in some national surveys "We at Notre Dame will con­resented by the mainstream of the campus infrastructure. as source of embarrassment. tinue to solicit subsidization for the faculty as rivals for pre­Malloy cited the PACE report He said that Robert Miller, di­this purpose from government, cious resources." which expressed "a need for rector of University libraries corporate and foundation Malloy addressed the issue of 
radical improvements in the and his staff have made rec­sources." graduate students at the Uni­physical and personal support ommendations for improve­Malloy spoke on the various versity. He said that the next services of the institution." ments and have made good use centers and institutes at the decade will be the time for The Decio Faculty Hall, Fitz­of additional resources that University and said that the op­graduate programs at Notre patrick Hall of Engineering and have been provided. erative policy is that they must Dame to reach their potential. the Band Practice Building were The PACE recommended bud­be self-supportive through en­He said that the faculty must all cited as examples of new get for campus libraries was dowments given for that pur­be committed to graduate edu­structures in recent years. In $10 million, he said presently pose or through grants. cation, the academic support addition, Malloy said presently the budget is $6 million. Malloy "Our institutes and centers structures and services must be funding is being sought after said that further efforts must are one of the most effective in place and the financial re­for buildings for the business be made to reach this goal. vehicles we have for promoting sources for recruitment of top college. the theology depart-"There is no other area on inter-disciplinary research and students prior to real progress. 

H. KAPlAN 
Our classroom instruction, home study materials and review tapes have all been COMPLETELY UPDATED to prepare you for the NEW LSAT. What has NOT CHANGED is our 50 years of test preparation experience, our skilled instructors, our small classes, our first rate study materials and our TEST-N-TAPEGD labs. And our 135 Centers are still open days, evenings and weekends for your convenience. 
CLASSES ARE FORMING NOW for the ll. ~ 2 LSAT • 
1717 E. South Bend Avenue 
South Bend, IN 46637 (219} 272•4135 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Chances 
"From the vantage point of outside reviewers Notre Dame is seen as an excellent under­graduate school with a few outstanding graduate pro­grams and several programs that have made real strives in recent years. But we have not yet attained the visability or in­fluence that we correctly see," said Malloy. 
He said that more financial aid and stipends are needed for graduate students. The Univer­sity must provide for the human side of the graduate students so that they "feel like full-fledged and welcome members of our community." 
Malloy also spoke about the undergraduate programs at Notre Dame. He cited the bene­fits of the Freshman Year of Studies and the core curricu­lum. 
"I am convinced that we can avoid the hyper-specializa­tion...that characterizes so much of undergraduate educa­tion," said Malloy. 
He cited the changes in the student body in the past three years, specifically the addition of women and minorities. Mal­loy said that this change will require that everyone be more sensitive to the use of language and example. 
Other positive factors include the honors program, the revival of the hall fellows program, the addition of a health, sexuality, and substance abuse class in physical education, space in buildings for faculty/student exchange, and funds for fac­ulty to host students in activi­ties out of the classroom, ac­cording to Malloy. 
Malloy discussed the issue of the perceived homogeneity of the student body including simi­lar race, religious and socio­economic backgrounds. He said 
see STATE I page 6 
Tuesday, October 3, 1989

page 6 The Observer 
Tornado claims 21ives, injures 12 in Georgian trailer park 
Associated Press 
MOULTHIE, Ga. -A tornado destroyed a trailer park and a church in a 10-mile rampage Sunday afternoon, killing a woman and a toddler and injur­ing a dozen more people. 
Most of the damage and both deaths occurred at a mobile home park live miles out of Moultrie in southern Georgia, said Colquitt County Sheriff 

Beatification ceremony 
Pope John Paul II holds a crucifix during a solemn ceremony beatification of 26 martyrs the Spanish civil war, on the sag rate of the St. Peter's Basilica on Sunday. 
Billy Howell. At least nine mo­bile homes were destroyed. 
Twelve injured were brought to the county Regional Medical Center. said Dave Nethers, public relations director. One was taken to surgery and an­other to the intensive care unit and the other 10 did not appear to be that seriously hurt, he said. Five were treated and re­leased. 
The dead were identified as 
AP Photo 
Joyce Carter, 45, and Brittany Cobb Funeral Home, said he Thomas, 2, both trailer park saw the twister coming. lie said residents. it appeared to split and pass on 
The tornado tore through a both sides of his business be­stand of timber after wrecking fore hitting the trailer park. the mobile homes and then de­A double-wide mobile home molished the Bethlehem Schley and a metal shop were the only Baptist Church, police said. buildings left standing in the About 500 yards further it de­trailer park, which was strewn stroyed the social hall at Schley with fragments of buildings Baptist and ripped the roof off and overturned automobiles. the sanctuary. Moultrie Police Chief Hichard 
Bobby Cobb. who operates Crouch said a command post 
SECURITY BEAT 
THURSDAY, SEPT. 28 

3:15a.m.: A resident of St. Joseph Hall reported that the lock to his bicycle had been tampered with while it was secured in front of the law school building. 
5:04 p.m.: Notre Dame Police responded to the scene of a two vehicle accident on Juniper Road. No injuries were reported. 
8:17 p.m.: A Mishawaka resident was c~ed for disregarding a stop sign at Angela Blvd at Eddy Street. 
10:50 p.m.: A resident of Holy Cross Hall reported that his unattended books had been stolen from the Hesburgh library. His loss is estimated to be $50. 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29 
2 a.m.: Notre Dame Police arrested a resident of Connecticut for Driving While Intoxicated. The defendant had been traveling 44 mph in a posted 25 mph zone on Juniper Road. 
SATURDAY, SEPT. 30 

2:04a.m.: Notre Dame Police arrested a New Mexico resident for Driving While Intoxicated. The defendant was trans­ported to St. Joseph County Jail. 
7:06 a.m.: Notre Dame Police appre­hended two suspicious teenage M/B near the bike racks of Walsh Hall. The youths were taken to the security office and questioned before being released into parental custody. 
1:30 p.m.: A Flanner Hall resident re­ported that his unlocked bicycled had been stolen from the front of Howard Hall. The theft occurred sometime between 7 and 11 p.m. on 9/26. His loss is estimated to be $400. 
5:50p.m.: A resident of Holy Cross Hall reported that his vehicle had been struck while parked in the D-6 lot. The hit and run occurred sometime between 9/23 and 9/30. 
10:26 p.m.: Notre Dame Security received a report that a bicycle belonging to a resident of Sorin Hall had been stolen. The bike had been locked to the bike rack in front of Sorin. and the lock had been cut. His loss is estimated to be $250. 

11:11 a.m.: A resident of Pangborn Hall reported the theft of his wallet and con­tents from an unattended gym bag outside a raquetball court at the Rockne Memorial. The theft occurred at approximately 10 p.m. on 9/28. 
2:10p.m .. A University Village resident reported that her locked bike had been stolen from a bike rack at University Vil­lage. The theft occurred sometime be­tween 9/28 and 9/29. and her loss is es­timated at $479. 
3:30p.m.: A resident of University Village reported that his son's locked bicycle had been stolen from a bike rack at University Village sometime between 9/24 and 9/29. 
3:58 p.m.: A South Bend resident was cited by Notre Dame Police for operating on expired plates and exceeding the posted speed limit. The defendant had been traveling 44 mph in a posted 25 mph zone on Juniper Road. 
4:29 p.m.: Notre Dame Police cited a South Bend resident for operating on expired license plates. 
5:28p.m.: Notre Dame Police arrested a South Bend resident wanted on three felony warrants in St. Joseph County. The defendant was also cited for driving while suspended. false or fictitious registration. and speeding. 
6:30 p.m.: A resident of Grace Hall re­ported the theft of his wallet and contents from an unlocked locker in the men's locker room of the Rockne Memorial . The theft occurred between 5:30 and 6 p.m. 
9:28 p.m.: A Niles resident was arrested for Driving While Intoxicated and resisting arrest. The defendant was also cited for driving while suspended, front seat passenger restraint violation, and disre­garding an automatic signal. Notre Dame Police transported the defendant to St. Joseph County Jail. 
was being set up at the trailer park for the night and an emergency shelter was being prepared at the Moultrie city gymnasium. 
The twister was part of a storm system that dropped up to 7 inches of rain fell Sunday over parts of the Southeast, causing lowland flooding and 
prompted widespread nash 
nood watches. 
11:10 p.m .. A South Bend resident re­ported that his jacket had been stolen from the JACC. His loss is estimated at $40. 
11:15 p.m.: Notre Dame Police stopped a South Bend resident from selling t-shirts without University permission, and the shirts were confiscated. 
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 1 
4:45 a.m.: Notre Dame Security re­sponded to a false fire alarm at Lewis Hall. The alarm had been pulled by an unknown person. The incident occurred at approximately 11 :05 p.m. on 9/30. 
8:07a.m.: Two golf carts were stolen from the Burke Golf course sometime between 9/30 and 10/1. Their combined value is $7,000. 
6:12 p.m.: A Flanner Hall resident re­ported the theft of his wallet and contents from his unlocked room. The theft occurred sometime between 8:30 and 9 a.m. on 9/30. 
6:13 p.m.: Notre Dame Security re­sponded to a false fire alarm in Pangborn Hall. Unknown person(s) had thrown a water balloon at a smoke detector in the building. 
8:53 p.m.: A South Bend resident was cited by Notre Dame Police for speeding on Juniper Road. The defendant was traveling 42 mph in a posted 25 mph zone. 
10:05 p.m.: Notre Dame Police cited a resident of Connecticut for exceeding the posted speed limit on Juniper Road. The defendant had been traveling 49 mph in a 25 mph zone. 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 2 
11 :15 a.m.: A resident of Morrissey Manor reported the theft of his wallet and contents from his unlocked room. The theft occurred sometime between 3:00 and 6 p.m. on 9/29. 
State 
continued from page 5 
that he has observed changes 
for the better in regards to the 
intellectual curiosity of the stu­
dents. 
In regards to fundraising, 
Malloy said the "Strategic Mo­
ment" campaign has raised 
$390 million in gifts and 
pledges with a year left to at­
tain its final goal of $417 mil­
lion. 
In speaking of future chal­
lenges Malloy said, "We must 
exercise prudent financial 
stewardship." He cited other 
"prestige" institutions that in 
recent years have faced deficit 
budgets and hiring freezes. He 
said the Notre Dame has fortu­
nately experienced balanced 
budgets and "reasonable 
growth." 
"Uncontrollable costs and 
unreliable sources of revenue 
are our twin perils," he said. 
lie said the question of in­
ereasing costs of tuition and 
room and board versus the 
ability of families to pay for a 
private education is a large 
eoncern. The issue of attracting 
the best students who can also 
afford a private education will 
b•~ discussed at the next Board 
of Trustees meeting, said Mal­
loy. 
Malloy discussed the 
"problem" of parking. lie said 
it is an issue of convenience, 
access and security for cars at 
Notre Dame. "We need to forge a master plan and convince ev­eryone of its fairness," he said. 
Malloy ended his address by speaking of his role as the President. He said he is teach­ing a Freshman Seminar class and resides in Sorin Hall. 
His duties are subdivided among Roland Smith, executive assistant and Father Richard Warner, counselor to the Presi­dent, they meet weekly, said Malloy. 
On campus he also spends time speaking to various local groups, approving policies, consulting with the other offi­cers of the University, meeting with trustees, dealing with the media, hosting visitors, and re­sponding to mail. 
Malloy said he also regularly leads liturgies. "I try to exercise prudential ju ent about when and how 
often to be gone from the cam­pus." He said he travels for fundraising, to speak to local alumni clubs and as favors to "special members of the fam­ily." 
He said other travel is for na­tional and international aca­demic associations and for lec­tures. His major activities and interests include associations with Catholic colleges and uni­versities, the NO program in Australia, student volunteer programs, minority and higher education, and national and statewide policy groups. 
"As we approach the celebra­tion of our 150th anniversary at the University, may we each find our specially suited way to carry on the sacred trust," con­cluded Malloy. 


THUNDERBIRD 
AMERICAN GHADliATE SCIIOOL OF INTEHNi\TIONAL MANA!;EJ\IENT Glendale, Arizona /l[",](lfi lISA 
A representative will be on campus MONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1989 to discuss 
GRADUATE STUDY 
Interviews may be scheduled at CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES 
POST GRADUATION VOLUNTEER FAIR 
YM®®~@W~@©n©~~~ 
U'c ~ @jp)Ui1il 

©®mnt®~ ~@~ @@©~@~ ©@)[TIJ~~[TIJ 
30 programs represented For Seniors and interested undergrads 

--------------~-----------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, October 3, 1989 
The Observer 
page 7 

Texas rules school finance 
CAMPUS Representatives needed 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY DIANE 
Class 
for "Spring Break 90" programs to 
the wondertul RA!!!I 
Mexico-Bahmas-Fiorida & S.

continued from page 11 Hope it was great!!
system unconstitutional 
Padre Island -Earn Free Vacation 
Love: Your section 3B 

Associated Press 
AUSTIN, Texas -The Texas Supreme Court found "glaring disparities" between the state's rich and poor school districts and ruled Monday that funding within the nation's second­largest system is unconstitu­tional. 
Spending varies by as much as $17,000 per pupil per year from rich to poor districts, the court found. 
"A remedy is long overdue," Justice Oscar Mauzy's opinion said. "The Legislature must take immediate action." 
The 9-0 ruling could have enormous financial and social implications for the 3.3 million­student Texas school system, second in size to California's. 
The court found the public school finance system violates the 113-year-old constitutional provision for an "efficient sys­tem" of public schools. It set a May 1, 1990, deadline for legis­lators to find a solution. 
State attorneys had argued that the word "efficient" was intended to suggest a 'simple and inexpensive system."' 
But the court said, "The state's school financing system is neither financially efficient, nor efficient in the sense of providing for a 'general diffu­sion of knowledge' statewide. 
"It must be recognized that the constitution requires an 'efficient,' not an 'economical,' 'inexpensive,' or 'cheap' sys­tem," Mauzy said. 
"A Band-Aid will not suffice; the system itself must be changed," the court warned. 
Gov. Bill Clements said he will call for a special 30-day session 
of the Legislature in the spring. 
Nearly $10 billion in state 
money will be made available 
for public schools in 1990-91, 
and almost $12 billion is ex­
pected to come from local dis­
tricts. 
Gumby, Liz Sweeney, Captain 
Kathy, KC do you remember me? 
How 'bout you RJ, Rachel, Rach, 
Rachel Jane and Cathy, alias 
roommate without a nickname? 
My name is Candy, the Invisible 

roommate, the fiancee and other assorted mockery. Don't forget... .... 
I love you, I love you, I love you and if I ever talked to you guys on the phone I'd never hang up first. 
your pal 
Molly 
PADDINGTOM DAYS DON'T REALLY MATTER, SO HAPPY-­IMEANI-­WELL, YOU KNOW. 
I WIN!!!!! 
COOL, COOL, COOL The countdown is: 3 DAYS!!! 
Oct. s-a, at esc 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM 
Thomas Swartz 
Professor of Economics 
College Fellow reponds to "Does 
America Have a Place in the 
International Market Place?'' 
Thursday -October 5 -7:00p.m. 
All are invited. 
plus $$$$. Call 800-448-2421 
Rene, Janet, Emily, Diane, Ken, Eric, Terry, and Steve. Thanks for a great weekend. Good luck senior year. Tony 
SPRING BREAK SAILING BAHAMAS 45ft Captained Yachts. Groups of Eight. Seven Days Barefoot in the Bahamas. $445.00pp All Accommodations & Meals SPRINGBREAK HOTLINE 1-800-9g9-7245 
VISION, a student run publication dedicated to social awareness and action, is looking for writers, photographers, artists, layout editors, and anyone else who would like to help. If interested, please call Fran Moyer x1778 or Jay Stone x3040. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY BEANER!! You finally made it to the big 21!! Congrats from 
the whole crew: Karin, Kelly, Cathi, Laurie, Laura, Molly, Liz, Missy, Debbie, Joanna, Julie, & the Parking Lot Men!! 

CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable atmosphere, daily & weekly specials, pool table, English darts, and great company. 234-3541 
ADOPTION: Loving, professional couple in Midwest wishes to adopt newborn. We offer stable and happy home, financial security, welcoming extended family. PLEASE call collect 513-751-6711 after 6:30 pm weekdays, any1im-e weekends.Attorney involved. 
ATIENTION SENIORS: GE-SPONSORED OPEN HOUSE OCT. 3, 7-9 PM CENTER FOR CONTINUING 
EDUCATION 

Tuesday, October 3rd At 8:00p.m. In the Grace Hall Pit Grace Hall's Intellectual Life Commission Presents A Panel Discussion On the CONTROVERSY caused by 
THE LAST TEMPTATION OF CHRIST 
Featuring: 
Rev. Michael Himes 
Dr. David Solomon 
Dr. Daniel Lapsley Dr. Stephan Fredman Dr. Kate Halischak Dr. Theodore Mandell 

Refreshments to follow discussion 
audi() spec:iali~ts inc. 
Need student to teach our two daughters aged 8 and 9 , to play the piano. 4 mi. north of ND. 
Late afternoons, place negotiable. 
the electronics store 
I "At lower levels the sound character of the PN5+ system was amazingly close to that of our referencePatent Pending Dladuct™Port for Superb Bass speakers, which cost nearly twenty • 314" Dome Tweeter with Ferro-Fk.lld times as muchi•••Qulte remarkllble 5 1/4" Black Polypropylene Woofer Stereo Review Model I'N-5+ 50 Watt ContiR.JOUS RMS Power Handling January 1988 7 Year Transferable Warranty LIST PRICE NOW 179 00 149 00 DTL-50 COMPACT DISC PLAYER WITH • 9-Functlon lnfared Wireless Remote • Dig ltal Time Lens • 9-Track Programmability Most manufactures would be content to present the DTL-50 as their top-of-the-line CD player -it's that good. Incredible sonic I,performance, and the equally remar1<able -/ restorative capabilities of the Digital Time Lens · are brought to your ears through an . NOW $35900 impressive list of features that make CD was $55000 listening an exercise in comfort and precision. VRX-21oo vector research • 30 Watt per Channel RMS -• Completely Discrete Outputs • 20 FM and 20 AM Presets • Pre-Out, Main-In • Digital Quartz Synesized Tuner • Multiple Audio-Video Inputs NOW$}7900• 75 OHM Cable Input audi() specialists Da\"e Derda Ken Fuw Tum Spink Kent Rl'itcr .Jeff Sicg 401 N. Michigan South Bend In. 219-234-5001 ffiCEJ • STUDENT DISCOUNT Available \il1  Call Kathy 277-7446. NEEDED: 4 OR 6 NAVY GA's CALL ANNETTE 284-4344 Fireside Chats Fireside Chats Female Models needed for LA Hair Competition. Nov 10-14. All expenses paid. Call Cosimo 277­1875 ------------------------------------­FEMALE AUDITIONS for Noises Ott Wed., 7:30, St. Ed's 1st floor lounge. Call Raul (1515) or Mark(1513) for questions YOU GOTIA BE F'N KIDDIN ME, RICK! TLT: How many weeks till Thanksgiving? No, wait; how many days till Tues? Love, David P.S. Tours can be given any1ime ... K-State K-State Good Luck on your interviews Joe! I know you'll be great and get a job that pays $240k to start. Then you can support me, right? I love you. -Kelley HiAg! Good afternoon Fiance, . I hope you are enjoying your day. t. bass. Need 1 Northwest airline voucher. Will pay cash.Call Mike X2446 8111 Al'ftiAI. COI.J.fGim WIVTBIIIII BIIEAJ(I TOll FREE NIIRMATION I IIESBIVATJONS 1·8G0-321·5911  


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 

Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Edltor ....... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............. Molly Killen VIewpoint Editor .................... Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ........ Shannon Roach Sports Edltor ....................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ............ Alison Cocks Accent Edltor ............................ John Blasi Systems Manager .............. Mark Derwent Photo Edltor .............................. Eric Bailey OTS Director ................... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Edltor ............... Christine Gill Controller ............................ Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi· ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob· jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Saini Mary's Editor. Commentaries, tellers, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Governors, Bush earn B+ at summit 
President George Bush was absolutely correct when he said that in r:egards to public education in the United States "the time for study is now over." 
With the public educational system in the U.S. on a steady decline it is indeed time for a change, and last week at the education summit in Charlottesville, Va. President Bush, the governors of 50 states, and educa­tion leaders discussed what course of action to take. 
Surprisingly money was not the central issue nor should it have been. With education spending at an all time high ($353 billion or $5,246 per pupil) it has be­come apparent that simply increasing spending is not the panacea for our nation's education woes. 
The two major education priorities addressed at the summit were increasing student achievement levels, and the elimination of disparities between students in dif­ferent economic and educational groups. 
American students are being out-preformed by their peers in other countries. In a study done on the levels of education in 20 different countries, U.S. students ranked 1Oth in eight grade arithmetic, 12th in algebra, and 16th in geometry. If students are going to remain competitive in the workplace this gap must be closed. 
The governors and the president agree that one solu­tion to these problems is the setting of national goals and standards that all school systems should be re­quired to meet. They are right. There should be certain basic levels of knowledge that American school children must attain. It is crucial, however, that these national standards be flexible enough for local educators to adapt their curriculums to the needs of their communi­ties. 
Education Secretary Lauro Cavazos and President Bush both believe another solution to some disparities could be solved, in part, by instituting a "choice" system for schools. Such a program would allow parents to choose what school, in their district or not, that their children would attend. Supporters of this plan believe that this will promote competition between schools and therefore increase the quality of education. 
The "choice" system will simply not work. Such a pro­gram is bound to increase, not lessen, the differences between schools. The program will only harm inner city schools, where the most improvement in needed, and benefit those in the suburbs. Only through a concen­trated effort to make all schools better will the system be improved. 
DOONESBURY 
YCAH, 7HIS IS 8AR8ARA A/tW I KNOIAJ :IH/3 t:JOeSN7 !J(XP.;7e~N'S Pei?SONAL ...w!NA-HAVe ANYi-lf.JE!3, auT 6ER! U£ '5TIU. HAVCN760T UJe NEe[) 70 513&/T! 7He 5CRJPT FOR THe "7RIJMP tvHJrr? fiOIQs 5H/3 
CARP"PIWT 7D!¥1Yl 6137T//Ik3 70 7Hl3 
UJHAT GIVES~ I'U.. 7W.. YOU HOW 
I 5He'S C£TT~NG 10 7H& 
577Jf)l().' ' 
LETTERS· 
Dear Editor, 
If an organization violates the principles held by a person or a group of people, it follows logically that this organization will lose the patronage of that person or group. This is not the case with the CIA and its relationship with Notre Dame. The CIA, because of its inherent character, has violated the Christian and humanitarian values held by Notre Dame, yet Notre Dame continues to lend the CIA its tacit support by allowing it to recruit on campus. 
The CIA has, in its 40 year history, committed human rights violations abroad as well as at home, broken U.S. and international law, and even its own charter. Additionally, the CIA has been the cause of many instances of military interven­tion abroad. The presence of the Agency on campus is deprecation of everything that Notre Dame holds as moral and just. 
The CIA, or "the Company" as it is called by those who work for it, has a long tradition of violating human rights in other countries in order to achieve its own ends. "The Company" has supported military attacks on civilians in its covert wars in Nicaragua and Angola and through its support of death squads in countries like El Salvador. "The Company" has also provided hit lists of political and labor leaders to governments. These people have accordingly "disappeared." ·In some cases, the CIA plays a more direct role in assassinations, as with Rafael Trujillo of the Dominican Republic, Ngo Dinh Diem of South Vietnam and Salvador Allende of Chile. 
These human rights viola­tions are by no means limited to other countries. Domestically, "the Company" has engaged in mail intercept and surveillance operations. As of 197 4, the CIA had' accumu­lated files on at least 9,000 U.S. citizens and had even considered assassinating certain citizens, including 
Daniel Ellsberg, who  was  re­ 
cently  a  speaker  here  on  
campus.  

The legal breaches committed by the CIA include violations of International Law, World Court decisions, the U.N. Charter, articles of the Organization of American States and the humanitarian principles laid down as law at the 1949 Geneva Convention. 
With regard to U.S. laws, the CIA has broken U.S. treaties, its own founding charter and the Intelligence Oversight Acts of 1976 and 1977. 
The covert actions carried on by the CIA have been the cause of U.S. military inter­vention as occurred in the Dominican Republic and Vietnam. "The Company," through its covert operations, supports regimes which are favorable to U.S. interests, specifically economic interests, but which are not necessarily favorable to the interests of that country's citizens. A regime that is unjust and unpopular will not remain in power forever, despite the CIA's support. When the people of the nation rebel against the CIA's governments, military action becomes necessary. 
The reason that "the Company" functions in this way is that it has become, essentially, the secret police of America's economic interests overseas. This goal of defending the foreign invest­ments upon which our economy depends is seen as justification for whatever methods the CIA employs. The ends, protecting 
U.S. investments, are said to justify the means, which have no boundaries. 
The CIA has shown that it has no qualms about violating the values and principles espoused by Notre Dame -a regard for human rights and democracy, and a respect for law and jus­tice. Any organization that so flagrantly rejects these tenets should not be supported by the University. 
College recruits are the lifeblood of the CIA. While the CIA should certainly be allowed, even encouraged, to speak on campus, the right to free speech is completely different and separate from the right to recruit. By denying the CIA the right to recruit on campus, Notre Dame could send a firm message that it disapproves of the CIA and its methods, and that the University will remain faithful to the ideals for which it stands. 
Amy Eckert Democratic Socialists ofAmerica -ND/SMC Oct. 1, 1989 

GARRY TRUDE/\U QUOTE OF THE DAY 
800PSIE-! 
IF YOU 
[)()N7({)P 

'What matters most in the
ANATTI­TUt:e,lH&Y 

apostolate is a willingness to 
[}()N'T 

be used, rather than· an inner
R&t;PECT 
YOU!\ 

conviction that we have something to contribute.' 
• 

Fr. Valentine, O.P. 
Tuesday, october 3, 19a9 
Viewpoint 
page 9 
-

Using the powers of the mind to seek truth 
One of the great thinkers of' collective search for knowledge sure up to the way things are; clash. They are not all of equal our time, and a man who had a and truth is that we respect the they are false otherwise. value; they are not all compati­
Thomas D'Andrea 
great love for the University of freedom of others to discover The ''I'm okay, you're okay" ble; they are not all true to the Notre Dame. Jacques Maritain, the truth for themselves. What view of the intellectual life is world they seek to interpret
Inside Out 
was fond of saying that the we must at all costs avoid is that life's greatest trivializa­and explain. For good or for ill, problem with our world is that being intellectual imperialists: tion. We should not be swindled they alter the fortunes of entire there are not enough individu­of human lives. From dawn's those who impose their own by it. It means well, but it nations and the eternal des­als in it with hard minds and first breaking on this planet, truth on others (as if truth, makes what we are doing here tinies of individuals. Or have we soft hearts. The hard-minded numberless individuals have something by its nature trans­at the University look like in­forgotten what has been going and hard-hearted, and their died, in many cases willingly, in personal and inter-subjective, fantile amusement. We should on in Poland, or Central counterparts -those with soft defense or defiance of an idea. could be the private property of certainly respect the freedom of America, or Afghanistan, or minds and soft hearts -Ideas are the very stuff of the an individual). others. Those of us who are Lebanon or in our own abound, but the soft-hearted intellectual life of a university, If this attitude toward truth­Christians believe that God Supreme Court? and soft-minded are sadly a and the belief that ideas have seeking were correct, we would loved freedom so much as to Recognition of the rights of rarer sort. consequences, both practical do well to disband our collective create beings capable of defini­others to seek the truth accord­
This was a significant utter­and trans-practical, is the and cooperative search for tively rejecting Him. We also ing to their individual con­ance of Maritain's because it premise of the entire academic knowledge and wisdom in the believe that however God sciences is not an end in itself. was meant to remind us that enterprise. Ideas and their con­University. The confines of our pursues His human creatures Toleration does not exclude but what is distinctive about the sequences matter. sometimes own small subjective worlds He never forces Himself upon rather encourages proselytism h'uman being is not simply gravely. Engaged here in the would be the appropriate place them. By all means, we should for what we believe to be true. 
"heart": emotions, passions, University in the pursuit of to look for truth. We would no sympathize with the difficult This is because toleration's 
sympathies, sentiments, feel­knowledge and the search for longer be interested in the rele­struggle others, as we, have in true purpose is that we should ings etc., but mind as well: truth, we constantly traffic in vance and ramifications of the search for truth: the all come, and come freely (the thoughts, opinions, beliefs, cer­ideas. And they constantly push truth, discovered and articu­overcoming of prejudice, way free, rational creatures tainties, convictions etc. From back our horizons and enrich, lated, for our fellow human be­laziness, ignorance, self­were made to) to a knowledge this it follows that a good one as well as change, our under­ings. We would cease to believe interest and indifference. By all of the truth -a truth for all of these, a human being that is standing of ourselves and our such a truth existed. But this is means, we should have soft that liberates us from life's well-developed and well-func­place and purpose in the world. all patently absurd. We do be­hearts and not let a desire to many evils. If we are not hard­tioning, is a human being that But there is a subtly destruc­lieve such a truth exists, and dominate others use even our minded in seeking the truth, we possesses more than a prover­tive attitude toward this most our actions constantly betray most exalted beliefs as its will be doing others a disser­bial "good heart." One wants, noble human undertaking of this. We do believe that truth pawn. vice, and we will be forgetting and wants others as well, to pursuing truth for its own sake transcends our private perspec­But we should have hard that there is a war around us have a good mind: a mind with and for its liberating effects. tive and exists independent of minds too. We should not hold raging that daily claims its vic­a clear and keen vision of what We must avoid it, or it will ren­our likes and dislikes, or our back for ourselves the truth as tims. That war is the war is and what is not and what der our life at the University wishes and our wants. We can­we see it -truth is a common fought by ideas. Without hard can never be, a mind with an near meaningless. It masquer­not help thinking otherwise. good. We· should have the minds, we too may be victim­organized, coherent, tested, re­ades as a form of charity Truth is grounded in the way courage to state our views of ized. lined, and consistent set of be­though it is more like a bit of things are: we do not create what is true, offer them for Thomas D. D'Andrea is a liefs. fuzzy-minded nonsense. truth, nor is the mere posses­public enlightenment, subject graduate student in Philosophy, 
Ideas, though invisible, are According to this attitude sion of good will sufficient to them to public scrutiny, defend a regular Viewpoint columnist, shockingly powerful things; (which one might call doctri­attain it. An individual's beliefs, them, and modify them when and the chairman of the they constantly change the naire democratic skepticism), opinions, and perspectives are necessary. Ideas do count just Intellectual Life Committee of course of events and the course what is also important in our true in as much as they mea-as much as they do frequently the GSU. 
-

Should women be ordained in the Church? 
women in ordained ministries. which are exclusively for males. man Catholic Church and all ers, and priests to work to­By Gina Perez Moreover. as Sr. Regina Coli Once again women are forced that it has done to bring about gether in making our voices pointed out, we can find no into secondary or peripheral change in the world and I heard. Again, Sr. Regina Coli 
support for the ordination of roles and are subject to the de­refuse to remain silent and al­provides us with insight: It is 
This past Wednesday night, women or men in the New Tes­cisions handed down by a select low it to suffer at the himds of through baptism that we are Professor Teresa Godwin tament. It is apparent that the group of males who refuse to a myopic, patriarchal few. made one in Christ. But it is Phelps, Fr. Thomas O'Meara, exclusion of women from or­respond appropriately to the through ordination that we are 
and Sr. Hegina Coli led a panel dained ministries is a creation cries for justice of oyer half of But what can we do? How do needlessly divided. discussion on the question of of a patriarchal institution that the world community. Women we reach those who possess the the ordination of women: is failing to change and comply should be a necessary part of power to change the unjust For in not allowing womeri to 
Shouldn't the Homan Catholic to the needs of the church. the decision making process in structures? I am overwhelmed be ordained, we need to recog­Church Also Ordain Women? Of Shouldn't women be or­the church, and there seems to by my powerlessness and ap­nize who really suffers. Not course women should be or­dained? The answer seems so be little effort made on the part peal to the Notre Dame com­only do women suffer, but mil­
dained. At least that has always clear and obvious. Women have of the hierarchy of the church munity to take a stand for lions of Catholics are denied the been my opinion. And I was in­fought to attain equality and to move in the direction of women and rise in solidarity richness women would bring to spired to see so many other justice in the workplace, in the equality. with those who strive for justice our community. And, conse­women and men who shared in household, and in their inter­I know that I am not alone in in our church. As one of the quently, we all lose with the my vision of justice in the Ro­personal relationships and have my frustration. Certainly there most visible catholic institu­continued systematic discrimi­man Catholic Church. According been quite successful. Yet, the is always the option for women tions in the world, we cannot nation and oppression of to the members of the panel, struggle for justice in our own like myself to leave the church underestimate our power to af­women in our church. there is no scriptural church has proven to be to no and look elsewhere for the jus­fect change. As students, we 
-

foundation or theological basis avail. There are three ordained tice I demand. But I strongly must appeal to our administra­Gina Perez is a senior PLS for the continued exclusion of ministries in the church, all of believe in the virtue of the Ro-tors, professors, sisters, broth-major. 
LETTERS 
Sexist tradition creates a growing
Panty raid merely fun and games 
rift between NO and SMC women
girls are at school just toDear Editor: ciest or Big Mama styles found marry a Notre Dame man." To Dear Editor: ing hopefully toward a new
Kelley Tuthill's opinion of the in the 5 for $5 bin at the mall. panty raid tradition is a perfect If the Notre Dame men feel the change the relations would re­As students at St. Mary's decade in which women and 
quire honesty, not hypocrisy. College, we are writing to ex­men on both campuses can lookexample of the warped stereo­need to display their "catches" Notre Dame women must real­press our agreement with Kelly beyond the traditional stereo­typical view many Notre Dame as trophies, then this is clearly ize that Saint Mary's women Tuthill's article that the time types between our schools andstudents have of the women of a reflection on them and not of are not at school to find a has passed for panty raids at see the real reason why weSaint Mary's. Tuthill describes the women of Saint Mary's. 
Domer husband. Secondly, St. Mary's College. chose to come to St. Mary's(using an article from a 196 7 I highly doubt that the panty Saint Mary's women choose to Apparently the event has been College and Notre Dame -toObserver) Saint Mary's women, raid would all be ended if, as come to Saint Mary's. They are a tradition since before Notre live, learn and grow in this spe­­half-undressed, dangling their Tuthill suggests, Saint Mary's not just rejects from the ND Dame went coeducational in the cial community. 
underwear out of windows to women simply did not open 
Admissions Office. Just the early 1970's. Last year, when
Notre Dame men below. their windows. After all, Notre 
Peggy Abood 

same, Saint Mary's women we were freshmen, we were told
Dame men are not forced 
Colleen Durkin 

I must ask if Tuthill witnessed across the street by Saint must recognize the fact that all that the panty raid was part of 
Sheila Gaughan 

this year's panty raid. If she Mary's women but, as Tuthill's Notre Dame women are not fat, the Notre Dame tradition be­
Molly Belden 

had, she could have certainly column points out, are encour­ugly brainheads. Many of them fore the first home football 
Kathryn Benz

provided a more accurate aged by their fellow Domers. are attractive, fun-seeking indi­game, like a Dillon pep rally or 
Regina Hall 

description and would have no­viduals. waiting in line for football tick­
Sept. 25, 1989

ticed that all Saint Mary's The "strained relations" be­Let's face it girls. If it is the ets. 
women are fully dressed during  tween Notre Dame women and  panty raid  that bothers you,  
the  panty raid.  Furthermore,  Saint Mary's women are caused  have your own or try to con­ The panty raid is just another  
there is  no  mass hysteria be­ by  untruths  being repeated  vince the men not to pursue this  event that widens the gap sepa­ 
cause all parties involved real­ from  class  to  class.  Tuthill,  tradition year after year. But if  rating St. Mary's students and  
ize that it is just a joke. Surely  herself, says she often hears  it is really the "strained rela­ Notre  Dame  women.  It  also  
Tuthill. with her usense of hu­ "women  from  ... No'tre  Dame  tions"  that  are  getting  you  propagates the degrading no­ 
mor", can see this. The under­ complaining about strained re­ down, stop the gossip.  . tion that St. Mary's women are  
wear the women throw out are  lations"  but  they  continue  Anita Knebel  only in school to marry a Notre  
not  pre-worn  garments.  "telling  the  freshwomen  at  LeMans Hall  Dame man.  
Rather. they are the laciest, ra- Notre Dame that Saint Mary's  Sept. 28, 1989  St. Mary's students are look- 

Viewpoint welcomes letters and columns on a variety of issues. Send your thoughts to: Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
.. 
~---------------------~ 
-
Accent 
Tuesday, October 3, 1989
page 10 

Peace Corps: 
JULIE SHEPHERD 
accent writer 
Imagine living and working in a distant land~ a place where poverty is prevalent, familiar American customs do not exist, and people frequently speak a language called Thai. There is no doubt that Peace Corps vol­unteers often face hardships and challenges such as these. 
According to Dale Meyer, a

-Recruitment Representative who recently visited Notre Dame, the Peace Corps' re­wards definitely outweigh its hardships. Meyer, who served as teacher of agriculture and English in Chiang Kham Phayau, Thailand, said, "Sure, you are giving up two years of your time by working for the Peace Corps, but you also gain a lot in return. There is so much personal satisfaction in­volved in helping people in need, you are able to bring back the knowledge gained through the experience, and you also learn a lot about yourself." 
In addition to gaining a deeper understanding the world and themselves, Peace Corps workers often benefit from in­creased employment possibili­

-ties upon returning to the United States. Meyer explained, "Not only does the Peace Corps make you competitive for ac­ceptance into graduate school, but it also opens opportunities in the job market. It is good for careers in the federal govern­ment and also with private em­ployers. The Peace Corps worker's ability to learn a new language and problem-solving skills usually impresses [these employers]." Although Peace Corps work­ers are in strong demand, ac­ceptance into the volunteer program is also highly competi­tive. Meyer cited motivation, productive competence (technical skills), cross-cultural awareness, and emotional ma­
turity as four main areas in which the potential workers are 

-
evaluated. 

Most of the Peace Corps pro­grams require a college degree, with a biology degree as the single most requested major, according to Meyer. Explaining how an applicant can achieve these desired factors, he added, "We like to see someone with experience in something like agriculture, carpentry or plumbing. It doesn't have to be extensive, just summer em­ployment in construction or having grown up on a farm." Meyer also emphasized that previous community service ex­periences and foreign travel would help to qualify the appli­cant. 
Aside from practical work, the Peace Corps also looks for certain personal characteristics in each applicant. Meyer said, "You have to be flexible in case things don't work out as imag­ined and you have to maintain a sense of humor so you can laugh at your mistakes. You also definitely have to be open to experience and willing to ac­cept a challenge." 
Many Peace Corps workers are unable to complete their two year status because what they expect is far from the real thing. In order to avoid this disillusionment, the Peace Corps seeks people "who are able to 
Involves harships, cultural awareness, and a feeling of personal satisfaction 

cultural exchange of different values first hand. For example, he recalled, "Unlike in the United States, the people in Thailand think it is impolite to use a toothpick to remove food particle, while picking one's 
'There is so much personal satisfa~tion involved in helping people 1n need; you are able to bring back the knowledge gained through the experience, and you also learn a lot about yourself.' 
accept the things the way they are there and who don't view 
U.S. culture as the best. They have to realize that attitudes won't be the same [in their ap­pointed country]," said Meyer. In Thailand, Meyer saw this nose in public is not considered impolite." 
The Peace Corps offers 45 different programs in 67 coun­tries across the world. These programs include agriculture, skill trades, business, health and social services and educa­tion. Benefits include trans­portation to and from the for­eign country, medical and den­tal coverage and a living al­lowance covering housing, food and transportation. In addition to the average duration of two years of service, when the workers first arrive in their as­signed country they must un­dergo a required three month training period to learn the language of the country and other skills. At the end of ser­vice, each worker also receives a readjustment allowance, which is an accumulative $200 per month of service. 
The application process sim­ply begins by submitting an ap­plication. Once the Peace Corps reviews it, an interview is scheduled. Interested students may obtain an application at Career and Placement Services. If the Peace Corps accepts the applicant, the next step involves assignment to a specific coun­try and program. "Students should keep in mind that the time period to place workers can be anywhere from six to nine months. Now is the time to apply if they are graduating in May," said Meyer. 
Fifty percent of all Peace Corps volunteers carryout their service in Africa, while the other half travel to such areas as Latin America, the Caribbean, Asia and the Pacific Islands. Although one country might be more appealing to an applicant, Meyer commented that "ideally, people will say that they will go anywhere." 
The Peace Corps is designed for those who are eager to meet challenges, travel to for­eign lands and, most impor­tantly, help people in great need. Although it widens em­ployment opportunities and in­creases cultural awareness, the Peace Corps could actually be "the toughest job you'll ever love." 

A family vacation of glitz, gambling and 105° 
ELIZABETH WHOLIHAN 
guest writer 
Las Vegas. If you have never been there, you've probably heard the rumors and the sto­ries about the gaudy, glitzy ho­tels and casinos. If you IIAVE been them, you know they're true. 
This summer, my family took

-
a few days off and visited this infamous hot spot. Why go somewhere nice when you can go experience 105 degree weather in Las Vegas? Maybe because Dad is under the im­pression this will be an inex­pensive midweek getaway. Sure. Cheap food, free parking and drinks and reasonable hotel rates are all available while you gamble. However, just like life itself, there's a reason for all of this. After an extremely warm, yet typical five-hour drive with the family, we were psyched for the cool inside of an illuminated hedonistic palace. Really, air conditioning cannot be down­
played here. Other than gam­bling, air conditioning alone saves Las Vegas from merely being a vast hot desert with high electricity rates. So, here we were in the great Las Vegas. A real all-American family va­cation. 
After blowing off Mom and Dad at the video poker ma­chines, we youngsters checked out the scene. Sure, we all knew you had to be twenty-one to en­ter the casinos, but the absence of the 'carding technique' al­lowed those of us under age to pull some slots. Unfortunately, we faced some overzealous par­ticipants at the nickle slot ma­chines. One older gentlemen in particular had a tendency to play very slowly as he watched our machine at work. Whenever our one-armed bandit paid ANYTHING, (even if it was the usual two nickels) we could tell this was a first trip to Vegas
for grandpa. I guess they just watch a lot of paint dry out there on the plains. 
For my entertainment, I took in my fill of sports updates, sports information, and sports betting. Many of the larger casinos feature sportsbooks. In 
Other than 

gambling, air conditioning alone saves Las Vegas from merely being a vast hot desert with high electricity rates. 
my opinion, they just substanti­ate the claim that some people will bet on anything. Really, how can you bet on pre-season 
football and still claim sanity? Admittedly, certain events might be very profitable for wagering, but in my three days of exposure to the wide world of sports (as seen through the eyes of a Las Vegas casino), l learned only one important thing. It pays to be against Pete Hose's Reds. 
Las Vegas bills itself as "The Entertainment Capital of the World." So, complying with the unwritten laws of tourists, we made the effort to see a couple of shows. The most entertain­ing part of my evening, really, had to be the wait to get in to them rather than the shows themselves. I knew better than to expect a smooth swift hour of a wait. As soon as I got in line, I began to notice the many different yet distinct accents of those who had traveled far and wide to visit the magnificent Las Vegas. These voices com­plained non-stop. Fortunately, they didn't just complain about the line for the show. I was one of the privileged few who got a run-down on the whole night­
marish itinerary for these dis­
tressed travelers. I ended up enjoying their stories once I was told that the ticket price 
for the show did NOT indude the commentary. 
I guess when you're in Las Vegas, you have to keep in mind the city wants you to enjoy yourself while gambling a lot. It doesn't want to you to bll in­convenienced by a bad waiter and it doesn't want you to hear a women promoting Atlantic 
City gambling halls. We con­stantly heard the rambling (and rather ineffective) defense of the Las Vegas casinos. Our only reaction was "Of course it's warmer in Las Vegas than Atlantic City. It's in the desert for Pete's sake!" You know how it is, sometimes the obvious just has to be served on a neon plat­ter before people will pick it up. After three days, I returned to Los Angeles. 
I learned a few things on va­cation this year. It was an edu­cational experience, but next year, I'm going to beat the heat at Wild Rivers or Wet 'n Wild. 

... 
Tuesday, October 3, 1989 The Observer page 11 
The Observer accepts ctasstfteds every bust ness day from 10 am to 3:30pm. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune. and from 12 30 to 3 p m at the Samt Marts office. Haggar College Center Deadline for next-day classtfteds 1S 3 p m All classtfieds must be 
prepaid The charge IS 2 cents per character per day. 1ncludmg spaces 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard 3 blks. from NO campus 233-2342 $$$ FOR YOUR BOOKS WE BUY AND SELL USED TEXTBOOKS !!!!!!!!'!!!!!!!! 
TYPING 
JACKIE BOGGS 
684-8793 
LEGAL SECRETARY WILL DO TYPING/WORD PROCESSING. PICK UP & DELIVERY AVAILABLE. CALL 255-1726. 
Alumni Senior Club Needs 
STUDENT COMEDY 
call Bill 277-3653 or 239 7521 
Spee-Dee 
Wordprocessing 
237-1949 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 
287-4082. 
Private Math Tuition Call 271-9971 after 6 PM 
AD&D player with experience 
seeks party to join. Call George 
at x1782. 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: GOLD CLADDAGH RING 
OUTSIDE O'SHAG. DIAMOND 
STONE 
REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE 
CALL X2670 OR 277-9281 IF 
FOUND. 
LOST: MINOLTA FREEDOM 
ZOOM 90 CAMARA. LAST SEEN 
IN MAIN CIRCLE. NOT INSURED. 
NOT PAID FOR. VERY. VERY 
VALUABLE!!! CALL PETE AT 
#1863 ANYTIME! $100.00 
REWARD. 
LOST: A Jaz watch w/ black 
leather band on Fri. Sep 22 at 
party at 817 ND Ave. if found 
please call Chris at x1 069, no 
questions asked! 
NEWS FLASH: Synth programmer 1 airhead has misplaced a tan plastic box of 3.5" floppies containing 3 disks: 2 blank and 1 fabled "Synth Disk", holding important documents. Would appreciate its tmmediate return. If found, please call Weazel at #4665. 
Lost: Blue ND pouch w/ keys, 
detex, ID. driver's license, and 
pixes inside. 
REWARD-please call Andria at 
2903 or send to 112 Lyons. 
FOUND: a set of keys in Howard 
Hall. room no. 342. call x2652. 
LOST · Black wallet in NDH middle line on Sunday, Oct 1 I'd just like the wallet back, even if you keep the $. Call Bill Picht at 1436 or drop it by 711 Flanner or Lost and Found 
LOST: small black leather keychain pouch. Zipper compartment contains Washington State Drivers Licesnse. Marquette University ID & Nautilus Membership card. Also room & mail key. Please call Katie, x3351. 
LOST: keys on brass Wimbleton 
key chain with blue rubber NDDD 
on it. Very important!! Call Katie 
x3351. 
R U honest, or ? lost pr. black 
Vuarnets at Lafortune's auto bank 
teller. 9/11. Please call X4043 or 
leave w/ Carroll Hall rector. 
LOST: SILVER PIN IN MOON 
SHAPE-SENT. VALUE. REWARD. 
please call 2770 or send to 311 
Walsh. 
LOST: MINOLTA 35 mm camera 
with telephoto lens. Last had at 
Senior Bar or surrounding area 
on night of Fri., 9/22. $Reward$ 
if found. Please call Molly at 
X4985. 
Lost: Black Aiwa Walkman w/ tape 
inside. If found call Joe @3804 
Reward!l Reward!! Reward!! 
LOST: BLUE ND ID POUCH. 
Contains: ID, license, detex, and 
keys attached. Please call: 

BRENDA at x4272 or return to: 
331 Farley. Reward! 

FOUNND: Walkman in Hurley 
Hall. x1630. 

LOST: One stylin' hippie helmet with sentimentel value. Contact: the Butch Hunters. 
WANTED 

NEW YORK NEW YORK NEW 
YORK If u r headed to Albany, 
NYC, or anywhere betw. the 2, I 
need a ride home for Oct. Break. 
Will share expenses and driving. 
Can leave and return 

whenever ... please call x3442. 
...NEEDED••• A RIDE TO MID.­
EAST. PA AFTER THE USC 
GAME. WILL PAY. CALL STEVE 
X1723 
MATH TUTOR 

ADOPTION Loving couple dreaming of adopting white infant. LET'S HELP EACH OTHER! Legal/confidential. Expenses paid. Call Lillian and Ed collect. ANYTIME (212) 645·4344 
I need an occasional tutor in 
Calculus 105. Please call Kelley 
x4821. 

Help!! Need ride to Columbus, OH. Oct. 6-8. Will share expenses. Please call Laney x4830 
Experienced keyboard player for 
Notre Dame Hockey Games. 
Call 239-5050 or 5227. 

I need a ride back and forth to PA 
for Oct break. Will pay expenses. 
Call John at x1838. 

I need a ride back and forth to PA 
for break. Will pay. Call John 
x1838. 

HELP!! NEED RIDE TO MASS./ BOSTON AREA FOR OCT. BREAK WILL SHARE $$.CALL LIZ AT X1293 
NJ bound for Oct. break? I NEED A RIDE!!! Will share$$$. Call Angi at X1280. 
NEED RIDE 
to/from MILWAUKEE 
10/6-8 THIS WEEKEND 
gas$ 284-4201 
FOR RENT 

2 BDRM HOME 2 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS.272-6306 
FOR SALE 
COLOR TV RENTALS 

19-INCH, $70/SEM, $120/YR; 
25-INCH, $90/SEM, $160/YR 
FREE DELIVERY 

COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272­
5959 

Plane Ticket: SB to Newark for 
Fall Break--Super cheap!!! 
Call J. at 1870 

BOSTON! BOSTON! one-way 
ticket for sale, SB to Boston, 
leaving Fri. 10/20 call x3442. 
One way ticket, SB to ALBANY NY leaving Fri. 10/14 FOR SALE CHEAP Call x3442. 
3 dining room chairs $1 Oea 
Couch $40 wl matching chairs 
$20ea. Mark or Kitty 289-2011 
4-Bpm 

Have 2 PITT stud. tix call X 1306 
Is It True .... Jeeps for $44 through the Government? Call for facts! 1­312-742-1142 Ext. 7316. 
Microwave Oven Rentals 

1.5 cubic foot $75 now til May Collegiate Rentals 272-5959 
SCHWINN BIKE & TV.272-6306 
JVC RX-60 RECIEVER, 55 WATTS ASKING $90 KEVIN 277-2399 
SONY port CD car/home use: $100; JVC auto rev port stereo: $100; TEAC Dolby C tape deck: $75 
TICKETS 
Travel Tour Operator needs tickets for all N.D. games -home and away, especially MSU, US.C and Miami. Premium price paid. Immediate case available. Will trade for all major sporting events including Final 4, Indy 500 and bowl game, etc. Will also buy season tickets. Please call Dave at 1-800-828-8955 today. 
I NEED 6 PITT TICKETS CALL 277-9281 OR X2760. WILL PAY$$$$$$$$$ 
Need two SMU tix please call 284­4930!!!!!!!!!! 
NEED SEVERAL PITT GA'S PLEASE!! #2819 
TICKETS WANTED: 4 SO. CAL. (318) 942-9771, (W); (318) 942­7164, (H). CALL COLLECT. 
NEED FOUR GA's TO NAVY!!!!! PLEASE CALL KARIN x1321 !!! 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED 2 SMU TICKETS-GA'S PLEASE CALL 277-9281 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I need USC GA's. Will beat best offer. Ann x2830 
NEED GA TIX FOR ANY HOME GAMES. CALL MATT 272-3491. 
PLEASE HELP'! I desperately need an SMU student of GA ticket!! Thanks! Joh{lnna at# 4456 
NEED 2 SMU GA'S BADLY! Call Krista X1618 
I'll buy any tickets for any home 
game, or Miami. call JEFF at 239-3714, leave a message. Thanks. 
SO. CAL-NEED 6 TIC'S HAVE 2 PITT, NAVY, SO. METH WILL TRADE CALL 215-642-2765 
NEED 4 PITT GA'S CALL TONY AT 234-1048 
Need TXTS All Games call Bill 277-3653 
NEED up to 6 USC GAs. $ no problem. Jim x1236 
$$$$$$$$$$NEED$$$$$$$$$$ 
SMU and MIAMI GA'S TRADE FOR BLANK CHECK!!!!!! CALL JEFF AT 283-1504. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
WILL TRADE 2 PITT GA's FOR 2 USC GA's 2773097 
Will trade two PITT GA's for 2 USC GA's; call Paul x3367 
Need one USC student ticket; call Julie x4914 
NEED many USC Student Tickets, please call Megan 2518. 
Have 2 USC Std Tckts and$$ to trade for 4 NAVY GA's. Call277­9869. 
WANTED: 3 TICKETS ND V. USC. GRAD OR G; CALL COLLECT, 606-273-3164, 8PM-1 OPM. 
NAVYNAVYNAVYNAVYNAVY I need 5 G.A.'s or anything you have together NAME YOUR PRICE!!!! Call Kyle-#3775 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ WANTED: MIAMI TICKETS CALL MATT AT 1961 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
2 USC GA's FOR SALE + HOTEL ROOM USC WEEKEND! BEST OFFER. x1335 
NEED USC GA'S OR STUD TIX CALL KIM 2971 
NEED 2 USC GA'S MIKE x3501 

I need 4 SMU GA's. Will trade 4 Pitt GA's. Call Charlie at 3489. 
NEEDED: 1 USC STUD TICKET CALL CHESTER x1861 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED 1 GA FOR USC WILL PAY$$$$$$ CALL PAT AT 283-1875 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
ARE YOU LEAVING EARLY FOR BREAK? LET ME BUY YOUR USC STUDENT TICKET!!!! CALL PAT AT 1875. 
I need 3 tickets UNDvs PITT Reasonable $$ Call K. Sherry 232-2051 

Will trade original Picasso for 2 or 4 Pitt GAs. x2055 Nick 
NEED 6 SMU GA'S TIM 271-8795 

I need USC, PITT, & NAVY GA's. Please call Colin at x1930. 
Needed: 2USC GA's will pay call Erin x4541 
I will trade USC stud. ticket for USC GA. I also have a PITT stud. ticket 4 SALE. Call Kevin x3216. 
Need Two GA's to NAVY. Call Jim 234-3656. 
I need one good NAVY GA In a really big way And you wouldn't believe What I'm willing to pay 
call $cott x 1635 

·need 2 USC ga's Rick #1795 
I HAVE PITT STUDENT TICKET!! I really NEED USC Stud. or GA!!! Wanna trade?? Call Marcie-1275 
Help: I need 2 I 4 PENN State GA's PLEA$E call Pete X1716 
USC Tickets Needed 3 GA's. Will pay $$$$. Call John at 283-2005. 
I Need 2 or 4 PITT GA's -Call Doug x1065 
I Need 2 or 4 PITT GA's -Call Doug x1065 

PLEASE SELL ME YOUR USC STUD TIX-NEED TWO.HAVE PITT TIX TO SELL. CALL 2612!!!!!!!!!! 
I need two student tickets to the USC game. Call Martha at x1331. 
I need GA tixs for all home games Esp. for USC $$ 284-5227 Patty 
I need 2 USC GA's Please call , Mary Kay 284-5227 
NEED 1 USC STUD TIX !!!!! PLEASE CALL JOHN X 3106. 
NEED TWO GA'S FOR PITT CALL HEIDI 287-8133 
I NEED JUST ONE U.S.C. GA-­call John at x3501. 
NEED 2 USC GA'S Willing to trade 2 Pitt. GA's & 1 USC hotel reservation I Call Robin@2933 
WANTED: 2 or 3 tickets for Navy game. Write: Fr. Tom McGettrick, 725 Sodville, Sinton, TX 78387 or call Collect: 512-364-2210. 
DESIRE: 2 GA'S And 1 STUD. TX to ANY HOME GAME . PLEASE CALL MICHELLE at X 2922. 
I need 4 GA's (together) For SMU or Pitts Game. I will pay good money. Please call 271 8862 
NEED 2 USC GA'S. WILL BUY OR TRADE 2 SMU GA'S + $$. CALL DIANE X3477. 
The folks need 2 GA's for Pitt--call Scott@ x1651 
HELP! Need 2-4 GA Tickets to the 
USC game. Will pay good price. Call collect (612) 929-5405. 
2 USC tickets Call 502-354-8826 collect. 
1 or 2 NO/USC tickets wanted. Call Mac COLLECT (509) 325-0519 nights 
PITT or USC GAs needed desparately. Please call Mike at #2288. 
Help! Need 3 GA tickets to Pitt game. 317-743-7208. 
Need TIXX to any home football 
game.Big $$$.Call John X1583 
NEED 2 USC GAS AND 7 NAVY 
GAS!!!!!! CALL JULIE X3141 !I!!!!! 
TOP$ 
ALL HOME GA'S 
312-920-9350 
I NEED USC, MIAMI, & ALL HOME GAME TIX 272-6306 
WANTED 2 FOR USC WILL TRADE 2 PENN ST 301-949-4392 COLLECT 
NEED PITT GA'S PLEASE!! 
BETH 3706 
I still need 3 USC GA's 
Call John x2005 
Rich Alumni from Golden State 
need Tix for The USC game 
Call Sean x4327 
HELP!!! I NEED 2 USC GA'S 
WILL PAY$$ ANITA 4975 
BIG MONEY FOR USC TICKETS I NEED 10. STUDENT or GA Call FRANK 287-5320 
NEED 2 GA'S & 2 STUDS FOR USC! NICOLE X2818 
NEED 6 USC GA'S! PLEASE CALL x4933 
I NEED LOTS OF USC STUD TIX!!! Call Hales at 3640 
NEED GAS FOR PITT, 
NAVY & SMU $$$$ 
CALL TOM & MARTY 
X3185 
WANTED: 2 STD & 4 GA FOR 
USC GAME WILL TOP ANY 
OFFER BIG BUCKS$$$ 
CALL BRIAN *1026 ANYTIME 
NO PRICE TOO HIGH !!!!!!!! 
NEED 3 PITT GA TIX 
$$CALL: 4272 
have! PITT stud tic (sec 30) x3202 
2 USC GA'S NEEDED. WILL PAY BIG $$.callS. MARK 277-6087 
Help! We need 2 GAs and 2 Stud. 
tix for NAVYif Call x1278 
WANTED: USC TIX BETWEEN 
THE 20 YD. LINES. WILL BUY OR 
EXCHANGE END ZONE SEATS + 
CASH OR TICKETS TO NAVY, 
PITT OR SMU. 800-323-7687. 
I NEED 2 USC GA'S FOR 
FATHER. WILL PAY GOOD 
MONEY. RON 1723. 
WE NEED USC STUDS. AND GA'S. WILL PAY GOOD$$$. CALL BOB OR PAT AT X2313 
NEED USC TIX JOE 1714 
Help! I need one Pitt GA for my 
Dad! Will trade one Navy SA 
and/or pay$! 
Call Tallie X4813 
I am Rob. I need four GA's for the 
Navy game and you've got them. 
Call #1 804 and I'll buy them. 
It is impossible to be in more dire 
need of USC tickets. We need a 
couple students and plenty-e­
GA's. 
Call #1804. (Adam, Pat, Sri, or 
Rob) One Pitt student ticket. The word is "cheap." Call Brian at #t804 

I NEED 2 SMU G.A.s!! Call Chris@ 289-9811 
Aaaaaaarrrrrggggghhhhh!!!!! 
PERSONALS 
MIAMI FLIGHTS • MIAMI FLIGHTS 
Round-trip airfares to Miami or Fort Lauderdale. Depart Nov. 22 from Midway (Chicago); return Nov. 27 to Midway (Chi.). $239 for students, $265 for others. Tix sold on first-come, first-serve basis, and are non-refundable. Anthony Travel 1-800-7DOMERS 
NANCY I LOVE YOU! YOU ARE THE BEST! HAPPY BIRTHDAY! TOM 
• Hi Sunshine!! • 
•••• Fall Fest 89 .... Tue: "Rainman" 9 & 11 :15 pm. Carroll Aud. $1 .00 
Wed: World's Largest Twister Game Angela from 6 to 8pm. 
Sign ups at 5pm. "Rainman 9 & 11:15 pm. Carroll Aud. $1.00 
Thur: Beverage Gardens must be 21 2 Ids adm. $2 bev..50 9to tam. SMCfield ••• Fall Fest 89 •••• 
HAVE:$$$$ + SMU GA'S NEED: 2 USC GA'S Parents coming from Calif.!!!!!! Call Jeanne at x3620 or 3845 and leave message. 
TAKE THE PLUNGE!!!! 
Urban Plunge applications due OCTOBER 13TH ################### !!!!!EGNULP EHT EKAT 
1\l\l\l\l\lll\l\l\l\l\l\l\lll\l\1\1\l\ll.ll.ll. 
--------Just Do 11-----------­
To Keith, my most favorite D.M., Happy Birthday II Love, Michelle Gotcha! 
Thank you Saint Jude for your help in the matter of a painful affliction. Daniel Simon. Novena Prayer left at the Grotto. 
NANCY Hang in there kid. There are only five days in the week. Why are we still dateless? 
Janet: I miss you! This place isn't the same without you. Can we do lunch soon? RC 
Good evening ladies, step right up. step right up! 
It's time to taint the love loft; new sheets are in place as of the 29th. Wouldn't you love to be the first person in the section to enjoy the experience?!? You know you would!! 
Take a ride with the Cruise Director--he can do the -less dance, the one, the only .. 
SPALDING 

CHRIS 
Going to MIAMI of OHIO? I need a ride there the wknd. of Oct. 14. Will help with $. Call Sarah at #3484. 
ATTENTION MARY MAHONEY! "So I guess we dig each other and we'll be seeing each other in marriage and family" You're doing great honey, keep up the good work ... 
your luvah, Molly 

p.s. Can I touch you? 
see CLASS I page 7 

~­
f Tuesday, October 3, 1989 
~pa~g~e~12~--------------------------------------------~T~h~e~O~bs~e~N~e~r----------------------------------------------------­

The Dallas Cowboys took another blow to the chin Sunday when quarterback Steve Aikman injured his hand. Aikman will be sidelined for 4 weeks. 
+ 
American
Aikman out 

B<: a volunt<:er.
Red Cross
for4weeks 
Associated Press 

IHVING, Texas -Doctors operated on $11 million rookie quarterback Troy Aikman's non-passing hand Monday, inserting four screws into a broken finger and putting on a cast that will sideline him at least a month. 
Aikman, who suffered a broken index finger on his left hand in the first period of the winless Dallas Cowboys' 30-13 loss to the New York Giants Sunday, will wear the cast for three weeks. 
The Cowboys estimate that the earliest Aikman could return is four weeks with six weeks more likely. 
Aikman, the top pick in the regular NFL draft from UCLA, was tackled by linebacker Carl Banks while scrambling eight yards for a first down. He returned to the huddle and asked lineman Kevin Gogan to look at the finger. 
"I thought it was just a dislocation and asked Kevin to give it a hard pull and a jerk, which didn't help," Aikman said. 
"I gave it a hard pull like he asked and I sure hope I didn't hurt it more," Gogan said. 
Dr. Hobert Vandermeer, the Cowboys' team physician, said Aikman "was very fortunate it wasn't his throwing hand. That would have been a season­ender." 
The left index finger absorbs a lot of the shock in the snap from center and it would be difficult for Aikman to play without fumbling. 
Steve Walsh, the top pick in the supplemental draft from the University of Miami who is 

SPORTS BRIEFS 

Ultimate Frisbee games will be played in Loftus Center 
from 9 to 11 p.m. weeknights. The rosters arc due at the 
NVA office by Wednesday, Oct. 4. 
Training sessions for Hed Cross water safety instructors will begin at 6 p.m. Thursday, Oet. 5, in Hoom 218 Hoekne Memorial. There will be six sessions of four hours caeh. The cost of texts and materials is $30. 
Ski Club will hold an organizational meeting at 8 p.m. Tuesday, Oct. 3, in Hoom 118 Nieuwland Seicncc to diseuss tryouts and the Christmas trip. for more information, call x2962 or x3662. 
Boxing Club needs a manager/trainer to help with workouts, equipment and administrative responsibilities. No experienee is necessary, and either males or females may apply. Call x1818 for more information. 
Women's track and field will hold a mandatory meeting at 7 p.m. Wednesday, Oct. 4, in the football auditorium of the Joyce ACC. Call x2870 for more information. 
Horseback riding trip is being sponsored by NVA on Sunday, Oct. 12, for students and staff. The cost of $10 includes transportation. Hegister in advance at the NVA office or call 239-6100 for more information. 
DeadI i nes for NVA interhall racquetball and eo-rcc water polo arc friday, Oct. 6. Hegister in the NVA office. 
Irish Outdoors will have a meeting at 7 p.m. Thursday, Oct. 5, in Notre Dame Hoom of Lafortune. Any interested students should attend. Call 271-9901 for more informa­tion. 
earning about $1 million a 
year. replaced Aikman and 
Press here for a great yards and a touchdown. Walsh, who had two passes intercepted, threw a 27-yard 
data processing career.scoring pass to Herschel Walknr. 
The right time.The right place. Blue Chip. Green light. State data processing equipment. You'll State Farm is hiring. Farm is one of America's leading go as far and as fast as you can.
"The baseball hat is off and 

If you're a senior with a data insurance companies. Through You couldn't have a more solid 
my lwlmet is on," said Walsh, 
processing, computer science or innovative marketing and a proud base to build a career on.
who had been rumored on the 
math background, there may be service tradition it has become Contact your Placement
trading block before the Oct. 17 
a very special career opportunity the nation's leading auto and Director. Our recruiter will 
deadline. "I hate to go in this 
way, but when you are number waiting for you in one of the homeowner's insurer, and one of be on campus 10-12-89 two, this seems to be the way largest corporate data proces~-the top life insurance companies Or write Ron Prewitt, Assistant you g1~t your chance to play. " ing facilities in the country. in the country. Director, Home Office Personnel 
"My first NfL touchdown There are actuarial and audit-You'll receive expert training. Relations, One State Farm Plaza, pass was sure a highlight. ing jobs open, too. You'll work on state-of-the-art Bloomington, Illinois 61701. 
Herschel caught the ball and 
STATE FARM INSURANCE COMPANIES. Home Offices: Bloomington. Illinois. An Equal Opportunity Employer 
did his thing."' 
Tuesday, October 3, 1989 The Observer page 13 

SERIES continued from page 16 thP rPal Bash Brothers were playing on the other side of the Bav. ·i·hP San Francisco Giants' Kevin Mitehell (.288, 47, 125) and Will Clark (.333, 23, 111), who might end up finishing rmn-two in the National LPague MVP voting, are the most potent hitting duo since Mickey Mantle and Hoger Maris led the  in September to make a decent baseball of his life, and the eharge at the NL West title. Cubs have their own solid The Chicago Cubs, by eontrast, pitching staff in Maddux, Mike were playing at their best down Bielecki (18-7, 3.41) and Rick the stretch. Sutcliffe (16-11, 3.66). The Cubs' Hookie of the Year outrinld (Jerome Walton, That "big three" still can't Dwight Smith, Lloyd match the deadly trio of McClendon) and fellow Stewart, Moore and Welch. youngsters Mark Grace (.314, Oakland's Bash Brothers also 13, 79) and Greg Maddux (19­have a couple of things to 12, 2.95) showed no signs of prove. cracking when they stopped McGwire, who always seems charges by veteran New York to come alive at the crucial and St. Louis clubs. moments, will have to rebound  
1  Yankees to the 1961 world rhampionship. With that one-two punch, tabl1~settlers like Brett Butler 1100 runs) and Hobby Thompson (91 runs), and two outstanding starters in Scott Garrelts ( 14-5, 2.28) and Hick Heuschel (17-8, 2.94), the Giants were one of baseball's most consistent teams this season. San Francisco did seem to fall into a rut at the end of the year. letting slumbering San Diego break out of hibernation····················································  That momentum, along with from a season that made him the experience of Ryne one of the most overrated Sandberg (.290, 30, 76) and players in the game. And if Andre Dawson (.252, 21, 77) Canseco has a Series should lift the Cubs past the performance as dismal as last Giants in seven games. year, he will have a hard time The NL series may come thinking of things to tell fans down to a duel of stoppers -on his new 900 number. San Francisco's Steve Bedrosian (3-7, 2.87) and Those incentives, plus Chicago's Mitch Williams (4-4, Oakland's staff. should carry 2.76). the Athletics past the Cubs in Chicago has two things going six games. for it in the World Series. Of course, I picked the Mets Shortstop Shawon Dunston to breeze through the NL East (.278, 9, 60) is playing the best in this space six months ago.  
Happy Birthday  Observer classifieds will be accepted from  
Today IS Laura S 's birthday. Call her up and w1sh her a happy one. By the way Laura, we do expect to see you danc1ngll on pool tables 1on1ght. II  9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 LaFortune.  

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
STJMMER ENGINEERING FOREIGN STUDY > in 
LONDON, ENGLAND 
INFORMATION MEETING: WPdnesday, October 4, 1989 Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 7:00p.m. 
ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 
Rugby Club triumphs 
The Rugby Club continued its tough fall schedule as they traveled to Purdue on Sunday to meet the Boilermakers. The day proved to be a huge success as the A side came away with a 15-7 win, the B side romped to a 20-0 triumph, and the C side battled to a 6-6 tie. 

Mike Kamradt 
Club Corner 
The A side game turned out to be a physical encounter. " They were much more physical than Bowling Green," said Club president Mike Smiggen. The Irish were not intimi­dated as they jumped out to an early lead in the first half. Vic Pisani continued his outstanding play, scoring a 4 point try while Shaun McNamarra added the conversion kick to make the score 6-0. McNamarra used his leg again to give Notre Dame a 9-0 lead when he made a penalty kick. 
After Purdue got on the board early in the second half, Dan Ernst broke through for a 4 point try. McNamarra's second conversion of the game gave the Irish a 15-3 lead with 10 minutes to play. Purdue made the final score a bit more respectable with a 4 point try in the final minutes. 
"Our backs outplayed theirs," praised Smiggen, "Their forwards were strong in the pack, but our forwards played well against them." 
The B side crushed the Boilers as Marcos Mata scored two tries. Mata continued his outstanding play from last week, when he scored on a 100 meter run. Mike Mullenkamp and Bill Rudnick added 4 point tries in the big Irish win. Meanwhile, the C side bounced back from last week's loss to play well and record a 6-6 tie. 
The match against Purdue gave the Irish a good look at what they're up against as they will face Purdue in the first round of the Indiana Union Tournament this weekend in Indianapolis. 
The Rowing Club spent their Saturday in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania at the llead of the Ohio Regatta. The beautiful sunny and seventy degree weather was conducive to many activities including rowing on the Ohio river. Unfortunately, the club didn't do as well as they had hoped. 
"We didn't do as well as we did last year, but the com­petition was a lot better," said club president Brian Lapps. The competition was indeed tough as the Irish went up against east coast powers Cornell, Brown, and Virginia. Charleston and Mercy Heart were also in the field of com­petition. 
The best finish for the men was the 3rd place taken by the men' s light weight four. The boat had Jill Jacobs as its eockswain, while Bart Richards, Dave Ruppel, Mike Bertin, and Pete Slamkowski did the rowing. The women's four enjoyed an outstanding day, as they finished first in their race. Cockswain Monique Precheur provided the calls, as Kendall Dorminey, Meg Taylor, Jenny Sievers, and Kathleen McGuire provided the physical power. The Irish also put boats in the water for the men's 8, men's heavyweight 8, the men's heavyweight 4, and the women's lightweight 4. 
The Sailing Club competed in two regattas over the weekend and generally, had encouraging results. At the Carrie Price Regatta in Michigan, Notre Dame finished 9th out of 14 teams. In the Pierre-Marquette Regatta at Marquette, the Irish took home a first place. 
At Michigan, Notre Dame faced some of the best sailing teams in the nation including Connecticut College, Navy, and St. Mary's (Ma.). Michigan and Michigan State were also competing in the regatta. For the B division, Watts Hudgens and Patti Losinski split the skippering for 14 races as they finished 6th in their division. 
In the A division, skipper Paige Cooper and crewman Chris Knapp finished 11th in their division. The team was not upset though, with their performance. " We did about as well as we expected," said Hudgens. " We went up against some tough east coast schools and we had trouble in the first few races getting used to the boats." The boats u~ed were Olympic class 470's which are lightweight, fast, high performance boats. 
At Marquette. the Irish brought home a first place finish. In the A division Laura Sullivan and skipper Lisa Cox fin­ished 1st overall. The B division team that was skippered by Dave Kraemer and crewed by Kathleen Halloran fin­ished 3rd. 

Tuesday, October 3, 1989 

page 14 The Observer 
Irish remain atop AP Poll; Colorado No. 3 
After Auburn, the Second Ten
place votes and remained preseason poll, accumulated The Top Twenty Five teams in the second in the poll with 1,426 1,234 points. is composed of Houston, Associated Press college football poll, wtth 
Associated Press 
While Notre Dame coach Lou 

Alabama, North Carolina State, first-place votes in parentheses. records
lloltz continues to insist that points, beat Michigan State 26-Tennessee (4-0) moved from 
through Sept. 30, total points based on 25­

20 on Saturday. 12th to sixth -the biggest gain Clemson, which fell from
his Fighting Irish are not a 24-23-22-21-20-19-18-17-16-15-14-13­perfect football team, they Moving from fifth to third, its in the poll -by upsetting seventh to 15th following a 21-12-11-10-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1 and last remained the near-unanimous highest ranking since 1977, was previously fourth-ranked 17 loss to Duke, Oklahoma, week's ranking: choice at the top of the Colorado. The Buffaloes (4-0) Auburn 21-14 and dropping the Syracuse, Illinois, Texas A&M Record Pts Pvs 
1. Notre Dame (57) 4-0-0 1,497 1 

rankings on Monday. received 1,344 points after a Tigers to 11th. The Volunteers and Air Force. 2. Miami, Fla. (3) 4-0-0 1,426 2 The Irish. who supplanted 45-28 trouncing of Washington. got 1,193 points. Positions 11 through 20 last 3. Colorado 4-0-0 1,344 5 Michigan as the No. 1 team The loss, Washington's worst at Arkansas (3-0) improved a week were held by Southern Cal, 4. Nebraska 4-0-0 1,324 3 
Tennessee, Alabama, Houston, 5. Michigan 2-1-0 1,234 6after beating Virginia in the home in 60 years, dropped the spot to seventh with 1,118 
6. Tennessee 4-0-0 1,193 12 

Kickoff Classic on August 31 Huskies, who had been 21st. points after beating Texas-El North Carolina State, 
7. Arkansas 3-0-0 1,118 8

Oklahoma, Arizona, Syracuse,
and have remained there since, from the poll. Paso 39-7. Eighth with 961 8. Pittsburgh 3-0-1 961 10 
Washington State and Illinois. 9. Southern Cal 3-1-0 939 11received 57 first-place votes The strength of Colorado's points was Pittsbugh (3-0-1), Washington State fell to 21st, (tie) West Virginia 4-0-1 939 9from a nationwide panel of 60 victory convinced voters to which moved up two spots by 
11 Auburn 2-1-0 892 4

followed by Florida State,
sports writers and move it ahead of fellow Big playing a 31-31 tie with West 12. Houston 3-0-0 879 14
Oregon, Michigan State and
broadcasters. The Irish. who Eight member Ne,braska. The Virginia. 13. Alabama 3-0-0 807 13 
UCLA to round out the top 25. 5-0-0
improved to 4-0 Saturday with Cornhuskers (4-0) fell from 14. N. Carolina St. 669 15 
The Mountaineers (3-0-1) All three are newcomers to the 15. Clemson 4-1-0 665 7 a 40-7 victory over Purdue, got third to fourth with 1,344 
16. Oklahoma 3-1-0 637 16
poll.

1,497 of a possible 1,500 points points despite a 35-7 victory were ranked ninth last week, 17. Syracuse 2-1-0 496 18 in voting which awards the top over Oregon State. but share that spot and a point Last week, positions 21 18.111inois 2-1-0 419 20 team 25 points down to one Michigan (2-1) moved from total of 939 with Southern Cal. through 25 were occupied by 19. Texas A&M 3-1-0 375 22 point for a 25th-place vote. sixth to fifth following a 41-21 The Trojans (3-1) moved up Washington, Texas A&M, 20. Air Force 5-0-0 371 24 
21 . Washington St. 4-1-0 334 19

victory over Maryland. The from 11th by beating Georgia, Air Force and Florida
Miami, Fla. (4-0), which 22. Florida St. 2-2-0 171 25
State.

received the other three first-Wolverines, first in the Washington State 18-17. 23. Oregon 3-1-0 162 ­
24. Michigan St. 1-2-0 128 ­25. UCLA 2-2-0 103 ­
Other receiving votes: Virginia 86. Arizona 48, Penn St. 47. South Carolina

Bears knock off Eagles, stayundefeated 
45, Washington 35, Louisville 34. Fresno St. 29, Brigham Young 28. Georgia 15, Associated Press ered Anderson's fumble, setting home on Sunday. points and six field goals th1::. CHICAGO -Mike Tomczak up a 19-yard field goal by Luis Chicago took a 7-0 lead 53 year without a miss. 
threw three touchdown passes Zendejas with 10:01 left. seconds into the second quar­Zendejas' 47-yard field goaland Richard Dent led a defense Cunningham finished with 32 ter. Tomczak, rolling right 4:58 into the third quarter cut that overcame Randall completions in 62 attempts for from the Eagles' 14, evaded it to 13-3. 
Cunningham's fourth-quarter 401 yards. The 62 passes was a Heggie White and hit Dennis heroics as the Chicago Bears team record. McKinnon, who collided with But the Bears came right remained unbeaten with a 27-But Chicago came right back, teammate Wendell Davis in the back, going 86 yards in 10 13 victory over Philadelphia going 63 yards in seven plays, end zone. plays and consuming 6:49 of Monday night. with Tomczak and Thornton the clock. Tomczak was 5-for-5 
Tomczak had a 14-yard hooking up for the clinching It came at the end of a 51-for 57 yards on the drive and touchdown pass to Dennis score. yard, nine-play drive that began Anderson carried live times for McKinnon and a 1-yarder to The win ran Chicago's record when Shaun Gayle picked off a 26, finally going in from the 2 Matt Suhey in the second quar­to 4-0, gave the Bears a two­pass and returned it 19 yards with 3:13 left in the third quar­ter, then threw a 36-yard scor­game lead in the NFC Central to his 49. But the key was three ter. 
I<Ml-I.,...H!Ihtrolri~ 
lniC'II~Oiflm­

ing pass to James Thornton and left them as one of the plays later, when Izel Jenkins, 
1"71-Nil Xcm.,...(,mrn,l 
• .. llwtiiMd'-1­

with 6:08 left in the game after NFL's three unbeaten teams. seemingly in perfect position to the Eagles had come within a They haven't been out of first block Maury Buford's punt, ran After Zendejas missed a 45­touchdown. place in their division in 83 into Buford instead and was yard field goal late in the third 
Ifthe pressdidn't tell us,who \\OOkl? 

He finished with 24 of 38 for games dating back to the first called for a 15-yard roughing quarter, Philadelphia went 82 To Fl prlntl:d tnlonn~t)un on It~ rok nl 1 lru Jft'~ 1nd t'KrA 
It protect.,yoorrtatuto.ortodiKUto~ln~ rrM prn!o tuur.callt~Fint

266 yards. penalty. yards in nine plays to cut it to 
Amendment Cerucr 11 I-800-S42-Ib00
game of 1984. 

Dent, meanwhile, was cred­It also continued Coach Mike Less than live minutes later it 20-10 2:54 into the final period. ited with 2 1/2 of Chicago's Ditka's mastery over Buddy was 13-0, thanks to Tomczak four sacks. The Bears, who Ryan, his one-time defensive and the Chicago defense, which held the Eagles to just 73 yards coordinator and long-time ri­held Philadelphia scoreless in in the first half, also inter­val. The Bears are 4-0 over the the first half for the first time cepted four Cunningham Eagles since Ryan took over as in 40 games. passes. Philadelphia's head coach after 
But the Eagles quarterback, leaving the Bears after their First Dent and John Roperlimited to just 53 passing yards Super Bowl victory in 1986. sacked Cunningham at his 5. before halftime, came alive in It was the teams' first meet­The Bears got the ball after 
the fourth period after the ing since the fog game last win­John Teltschik's punt at the Bears had taken a 20-3 lead on ter, when the Bears eliminated Eagles' 36_ Four plays later, it Neal Anderson's 2-yard touch­the Eagles from the playoffs. was in the end zone. 
down run with 3:13 left in the The Bears never have lost to Twenty-four of the yardsthird quarter. the Eagles in Chicago in 13 came on a Tomczak pass to First he threw a 24-yard games, dating back to 1933. Dennis Gentry. One play later, 
touchdown pass to Greg Philadelphia, which has lost with the ball at the 1, he hit Garrity with 2:54 gone in the two straight, is 2-2 and two Suhey all alone in the right 
inner city life 
fourth quarter. Then he hit Cris games behind the unbeaten corner off a play-action fake. 
Opportunity to experience
Carter with a 37 -yard pass to New York Giants in the NFC But Kevin Butler's extra pointthe 2 after Wes Hopkins recov-East. They play the Giants at was wide left after 12 extra 
conditions of poverty, 




Ttekets ava.lable at the door or madvance at Larortune S:caent Center Bo• OH.ce Ma,terCard and V.sa Orders 239· 7442 

injustice, and apathy existing in our cities 
During Christmas break at one of over 40 different sites 
SWIMMING FOR FUN 
AND FITNESS 
REGISTRATION PACKETS 
WITH THE NEW 
AVAILABLE FROM 
SELF-PACED 
SEPT. 2 I-OCT13 
SWIM PROGRAM 
AT N.D.: • Center For Social Concerns
A NEWLY DEVELOPED SELF-PACED SWIM PROGRAM DESIGNED 
• Campus Ministry: Badin
TO MEET THE NEEDS OF SWIMMERS WHO ARE MORE THAN 
Haii/Hesburgh Library
NOVICE, BUT LESS THAN A VARSilY COMPETITOR. 
• Hall Representatives AN ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING DESIGNED TO 
AT S.M.C.: ·Office of Justice
EXPlAIN THE PHILOSOPHY AND DESCRIBE HOW TO READ THE 
Education
WRITIEN WORKOUTS_ I 28/1 59 Madaleva Hall 
• Campus Ministry: 150
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4 
Regina
12:15 p.m. (During lunch) 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL: SUE CUNNINGHAM 239-5293 
OR TALK TO YOUR DORM AEPRES:NTATIVE
ROLFS AQUATIC CENTER CLASSROOM .......... 
DEADLIN~ OBI13...AC1 NOW!! ~ 
SPONSORED BY NVA 
Tuesday, October 3, 1989 

CROSSWORD
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


I 1-\0\l£ IT's ~OIJR PARmi'S! I \-V.)\'£ 1\\t.~ ASK -m TALK 1t) t-\E .' Bt>i, ~OIJ'll BE IN 1%\\SLE TIIEN .' 

WILBUR AND WENDEL 
I 
I 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

11'S '{()JR ~'ffRIH~I>. 
C\\t>.RLIE:! 5\\CAJLI> I TELL \-111'11 '{O\J'Rt. \~DISPOSED? "to-l-Ito-~ 

BILL WAHERSON THE FAR SIDE 
5/t.'( C\-1~, Do~T 'IOU ~IKK iOO'RE 
S£ITUNG RlR 
~C) lilt\.£ \~ 

Tilt Gli<!..FRIE.I'\D 
Dt.~RIME.t-lT? 
JAY HOSLER 

47 Anacondas 48 Helots 49 Pub game 51 Greek letter 54 "-Haw" (TV 
program) 55 Boggs 
specialties 58"-Maria" 59 Seeps 60 Rajah's wife 61 Become one 62 Barn dances 63 Pegasus, e.g. 
DOWN 1 "-boy!" 2 Current events 
3 Step lightly 4Common crossword bird 5 Beats 6 Bowling or trolling 7 A "Laugh-In" star 
18 Alen<;:on 30 Stogie, to 46 Female 8 Provokes George Burns sandpiper 
9 Always, in poesy fighters 32 Sesame: Var. 47 Effrontery 10 Auction event 24 Forms couples 34 Parched 49 Get a few 11 Short-haired 25 Cauldron 35 To be, to Brutus 23 One-on-one 
zzzzzz's house pet concoction 37 Mop the deck 50 Eve's second 12 French city 
26 Musial or 41 Come-ons by 22 51 Prong where Van Gogh 
Laurel Across 52 To-(exactly) lived 27 Gaelic 43 Kind of oil 53 Secondhand 13 Body-shop 
28 Oboe 44 Barflies 56"-ismel" supply 29 Hindu garment 45 Fiddlesticks I 57 Toque or cloche 
ACROSS 
1 Built a pot 
6 More timid 11 Blackjack 14--Haute 15 Gay-­16 A Gershwin 17 Creeping, 
evergreen plants 19 Former boxing 
champ 20 Cleo's way out 21 Wins 22 Madison Ave. 
workers 24 Alliance 25 Most azure 
26 Calm 
29 Wingdings 
31 --Rivieres, city in Canada 32 Vetch 33 ---majeste 36 Assyrian war 
god 37 Asian goat 
antelope 38 Freezes 39 Bird beaks 40 Boo-hoo 41 Autocrats 42 Scene 44 Love seat 45 Kind of building, 
for short · 


DORM REPS 
The Student Union Board still needs representatives from the following dorms: 
Flanner St. Ed's 

STUDENT UNION BOARD Knott 
Morrissey
Get Involved!!! Stanford Zahm
Fischer 

Pangborn
Sign up in the SUB office Badin 
Cavanaugh
Alumni

2nd Floor LaFortune 
' 
.. 


~----------------------------------------------------------­
Sports 
Tuesday, October 3, 1989
page 16 

SMC soccer is impressive in weekend victories 
By COLLEEN KRENZER found itself in more physical .a.f' • Sports Writer matches than usual. The Belles a...a once again rose to the 
The Saint Mary's College challenge, meeting soecer team rebounded from a aggressiveness with tough week to defeat aggressiveness. Junior Trish aggrt~ssive teams from Troester led with an unassisted Marquette University and the goal and sophomore Greer University of Miehigan by Gilliland added to the score identical 2-1 scores over the with a penalty kick. weekend. 
"Both games were turning 
"With desire and points for our season," said determination to nxcfd. we Coach Tom VanMeter. "We surpassed both teams to boost were up against difficult teams our record to R-2," said but we were able to come sophomore Kelly Cook. around and get the job done." 
Cook tallied thn first goal for "We were really pleased with the Belles against Marquette on both games," said Winget. Saturday. receiving tlw assist "Marquette is a big rival of from freshman Stacy Winget. ours, and we beat them last Winget later scored the winning year, but they didn't think we goal with an assist from junior deserved it. We were glad to /\my Hoss. prove that last year's victory 
Sunday's game against the was not a nuke." club team fr:om the University of Michigan proved to be as The team heads to Valparaiso intense as the day before. Both on Wednesqay, and then takes Marquette and Michigan play a on Northwestern at home rough game, and Saint Mary's Saturday at 10:00 a.m. 
Belles tennis defeats St. Francis College 
By CHRIS BACON bntter than they have been. Sports Writer They were more consistent in tf'rrns of ground strokes and 
The Saint Mary's Tennis team serving," said Belles coach improved its record to 10-1 this Charlene Szajko. weekend by trouncing St.Franeis College by a scorn 
In doublt~s eompntition, the of 8-1. 
number one team of Block and Sarah Mayer easily defeated 

In singles competition, senior thPir opponents in straight co-captain Jennifer Bloek was sets, (6-3), (6-2). The numbt~r defeated at number one in thmn two team of McDonald and sets, (1-6), (7-5). (1-6) . .Junior Koscielski was also especially co-captain Sarah Mayer impressive, blanking their defeated her opponent at opponents in straight sets, (6­number two, (6-1 ). (6-1 ). i\t .()), (6-0). number three. freshman Denise McDonald defeated her Earlier in the w•~ek. the Bclhls opponent in straight sets, (6-1 ), defeatnd llillsdale Colh•ge in an (6-1 ). At number four Ellen aggmssive match, 6-3, and then Mayer. a sophomore. won in went on to def1~at Taylor straight sets, (6-0), (6-0). while University, 8-1. at number five another "I think we played quite well. sophomore, Marie Koscielski, There are definite areas we , also swept straight sets, (6-0), need to improve on. But overall. (6-1 ). the team performtld Willi abovp , 1 
"Both Ellen and Marie played average," said Szajko. 
The ObMrver/ Susy Hemllndez 

The Saint Mary's soccer team upped its record to 8-2 this weekend with victories over Marquette and Michigan 

Athletics will ride pitching to World Series title 
Over the last two years, the Oakland Athletics 
have been associated primarily with the "Bash 
Brothers" duo of baby boomers Jose Canseco and 
Mark McGwire. 

The publicity for Canseco and McGwire was inevitable. The youthful tandem spent the 1988 season leading the Athletics to an American League title and congratulating themselves with the new "forearm bash," replacing the traditional "high­fivtL" 
By the end of the month. however, the powerful Oakland pitching staff might be receiving as much attention as Canseco and McGwire. That's because it's the Athletics' arms -not forear-ms -that are going to bring Oakland its first world championship since 1974. 
Oakland general manager Sandy Alderson made the Athletics a force by acquiring Los Angles Dodgers ace Bob Welch (17 -8, 3.00 ERA in '89) and Seattle Mariners ace Mike Moore (19-11, 2.61). Add Dave Stewart (21-9, 3.32) to that pair, and you have the perfect three-man rotation needed for October. 
That means Oakland manager Tony LaRussa can place Storm Davis and his 19 wins in the bullpen for long relief. The A's also have one of the league's best firemen in Dennis Eckersley (8-0, 1.56), who will have to shake out of his late-season slump for Oakland to take the title. 
Actually, the A's showed just how powerful they were in the fir!l.~ half of the season, when they played without 1988 Most Valuable Player Jose Canseco 
Steve Megargee 
Associate Sports Editor 


(.269, 17 home runs, 57 RBI in half a season) and 1988 Rookie of the Year Walt Weiss, yet still managed to record the second-best record in i!.[se­ball. 
Once they got those two back and brought prototype leadoff hitter Rickey Henderson (113 runs, 77 steals) back to Oakland, the A's had the talent to beat even the California Angels and Kansas City Royals. Those two teams, which had the misfortune of playing in the same division as Oakland, might have been the second and third best teams in baseball. 
Henderson proved to be the catalyst for Oakland's offense. In a season where the American League had no true "most valuable player," Henderson may be a viable candidate for the award simply for his second-half production (let's forget his daydreaming first half with the Yankees). 
Oakland's experienced hitting attack also features Dave Parker (.264, 22, 97), Carney Lansford (.336, 2, 52) and Dave Henderson (.250, 15, 80). 
As for Oakland's playoff opponent, the Toronto Blue Jays did not pull a repeat of 1987's choke this time around for two reasons. One, George Bell (.297, 18, 104) didn't have to bother trying to carry 
the team on his shoulders; he had i\L home run 
leader Fred McGriff (.269, 36, 92) and Kelly Gruber 
(.290, 18, 73) to help out. 
Secondly, Jimy Williams wasn't in the dugout this 
year. Cito Gaston, who had a much better 
relationship with the players, finally got the Blue 
Jays to play somewhat close to their considerable 
potential. It's still hard to imagine that Toronto 
originally considered Gaston nothing more than an 
interim manager. 
One thing might help the Blue Jays this week. For 
once, the Jays are not favored; maybe they won't 
feel the pressure which caused the collapses in 1987 
and against Kansas City in 1985 (dons anybody 
know what Buddy Biancalana's benn up to lately?). 
Veteran pitchers Jimmy Key (13-14, 3.88) and 
Dave Stich (17 -8, 3.35) figure to be sharp. And if 
Toronto does pull the upset, look for catcher Ernie 
Whitt, who has been with the Jays ever since the 
inaugural 1977 season, to be an inspirational 
leader. 

But Toronto did not exactly end the regular 
season on a rampage; they only lost with slightly 
less frequency than Baltimore. The A's should reach 
the World Series in six games. 
Actually, with McGwire having an off-season (.231, 33, 95) and Canseco injured for half the year, 
see SERIES I page 13 

.'· 





