-~----~~------------------­
VOL. XXIII N0.14 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

AP Photo 
Dinkins defeats Koch 
Manhattan Borough President David Dinkins, left, celebrates his victory in the New York Democratic Primary for mayor on Tuesday with his father, William Dinkins, right. Dinkins defeated Mayor Ed­ward Koch in his bid for an unprecedented fourth term. 
Three killed in Beirut skirmishes 
death toll at 850 and 2,545 wounded in 6 months 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -Syrian and Christian forces battled in and around Beirut on Wednes­day, killing three people and wounding 1 7. Arab mediators met in an attempt to revive their stalled peace effort. 
Police said the casualties raised the toll from six months of fighting to at least 850 killed and 2,545 wounded. 
A spokesman, who cannot be named under standing regula­tions, said Syrians and Chris­tians clashed with artillery, mortars and machine guns in Beirut, north Lebanon and the mountains on the eastern edge of the Christian heartland. 
He said residential sectors of the capital, badly hammered since fighting erupted March 8, were spared in the sporadic clashes. 
The foreign ministers of Saudi Arabia, Morocco and AI­
•
N.D. prof • 
By NATASHA WILSON 
Senior Staff Reporter 
The employer-provided pen­
sion system in the United 
States ironically fails in its 
most fundamental goal, that of 
providing adequate retirement 
income security for the nation's 
workers, according to Teresa 
Ghilarducci. assistant profes­
sor of economics at Notre 
Dame. 
A new Congressional bill, 
however, may help reform the 
impotent 120-year old system, 
Ghilarducci said. 
A maJor flaw in the pension 
system is the frequent 
"raiding" and termination of 
pension plans by corporations, 
she said. The pension money, 
according to Ghilarducci, is the 
largest single source of funds 
for U.S. capital markets. 
"Because of a loophole in 
present law, companies have 
been permitted to strip plans 
Pension system failing 
down to bare bone assets, rob­bing workers and retirees of expected benefits and cost of living adjustments," Ghilar­ducci said. Some workers have lost almost 40 percent of their expected retirement benefits as a result of pension plan raid­ing, she added. 
The Employee Pension Pro­tection Act of 1989, introduced to Congress on April 4, seeks to curb the practice of siphon­ing pension money for corpo­rate profit. The bill, submitted by Senator Howard Metzen­baum {D-Ohio) and Congress­man William Clay (D-Mo.), would ensure that workers' benefits are properly protected and that retirees receive a one­time pension adjustment be­fore companies can use pension assets. 
"A good portion of so-called surplus money in a pension plan is really needed to pru­dently fund the ongoing bene­fits of active workers, to shield against stock market tumbles, and to restore the value of re­tiree' pensions eroded by infla­tion," said Karen Friedman, education director of the Pen­sion Rights Center in Washing­ton, D.C. 
"The courts and the IRS in recent years have given compa­nies a lot of leeway on how much they can claim as excess pension funds. The laws are not strong enough to counter­act that laxity," Ghilarducci said. 
Under the Metzenbaum-Ciay bill, companies would be able to claim only the "true sur­plus," Friedman said. The bill, she said, solves the problem of insufficient retirement funds by defining in detail what is con­sidered a surplus in pension plans and regulating access to those funds. 
see PENSION I page 4 

The Observer/Joe Vitacco 

Cello fellows 
' 

Graduate students Jamie Fiste and Arleen Kuiland practice their cellos on a rainy afternoon. 
geria began meeting in Saudi Arabia's Red Sea port of Jiddah to discuss· resuming a peace ef­fort that ran out of steam six weeks ago. 
The envoys on July 31 blamed Syria for refusing to accept a timetable for pulling its 40,000 troops from Lebanon. 
Christian leader Gen. Michel Aoun, in what appeared to be a compromise proposal, said even a partial Syrian with­drawal would open the way for negotiations on political re­forms to end the 14-year-old civil war. 
The Syrians, who consider Lebanon vital to their strategic defense against Israel, have re­fused to withdraw. 
Informed sources in Jiddah, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the Arab medi­ation committee was consider­ing a peace plan that calls for a cease-fire and the lifting of blockades by both sides. 
Beirut's independent An-Na­bar daily, the leftist As-Safir as well as Moslem and Christian radio stations said the commit­tee will declare a cease-fire shortly. 
Several cease-fires called by the Arab League and others have collapsed amid fierce ar­tillery battles that have driven an estimated 90 percent of Beirut's 1.5 million people from the city. 
An-Nahar said the nationalist front, a coalition of 18 leftist and Moslem groups allied with Syria and Iran, was expected to facilitate the committee's effort by proclaiming a cease-fire in "the coming hours." 
The front, formed more than a month ago in an attempt by Syria and Iran to intensify the pressure on Aoun, generally reflects Syrian President Hafez Assad's policy in Lebanon. 
AP Photo 


Final cleanup of Prince William Sound 
Marcie Thompson uses high pressure hot water to clean oil from the remaining stretch of beach at Point Helen on the south end of Knight Island in Prince William Sound Tuesday. With less than a mile of oiled beaches left to be treated, Exxon has reduced its work force to less than 7,000 personnel. 
Two new cases of measles diagnosed on N.D. campus 
By SARA MARLEY 
Senior Staff Reporter 
At least one and possibly two new cases of measles have been diagnosed at the University Health Center. 
According to Dr. James Mo­riarity, University physician, there is "one case for sure, probably two. I am almost sure they are measles, although they haven't been definitely con­firmed." 
Moriarity expects more cases as the incubation period for the disease is 10 to 14 days and many people were exposed be­fore the vaccination effort be­gan last Friday. 
"I wouldn't be surprised if we see measles here for the next month," said Moriarity. 
"There will be a lot less be­cause everybody was so coop­erative about getting their vac­cinations. That was very im­pressive on the part of the stu­dent body," he said. 
The University, in conjunction with the Public Health Service, gave 6,416 injections against the disease on Friday and Monday. 
Vaccines are still available at the Health Center for all fac­ulty, staff and students who were born after 1957 but not vaccinated against the disease since Jan. 1, 1980. 


WORLD BRIEFS 
The presidents of the three Andean nations to receive 
U.S. funds to fight cocaine trafficking will meet later this month to discuss President Bush's anti-drug plan, a government spokesman said Wednesday. Foreign Minister Guillermo Larco said President Alan Garcia had confirmed the meeting with Colombian President Virgilio Barco and Bolivia's president, Jaime Paz Zamora. Larco said the three will discuss the Bush plan, which includes $261 million in aid to fight cocaine trafficking in the three countries over the next five years. 
A moderate earthquake jolted an area of northern Iran on Wednesday, the official Islamic Republic News Agency reported. There were no reports of damage or injuries. IRNA said the quake measured 5.2 on the Hichter scale and hit near Gorgan, at the southeast corner of the Caspian Sea. The Tehran University Geo­physics Center, which measured the strength of the quake, said it occurred at 10:32 a.m. 
An English firm could be charged with cruelty to ani­mals after 79 beagles suffocated on a ferry from England to S~~­den, police said Wednesday. Passengers appealed. to the sh1p s crew to find out why the dogs were crying, but nothmg was don.e. Bengt Inaeus, a detective in Sodertalje south of Stock~olm, said 1 00 beagles were put in a van on the ferry fr~m Harwich to ~he Swedish port of Goteborg on Sept. 6. The Swedish pharmaceutical company Astra planned to use the dogs, obtained from a kennel in England, to test drugs. Inaeus said when a kennel worker went to check on the dogs after six hours, 79 were dead. 
Japan, the world'~ largest consumer of.ivory, will ban ivory imports from Afnca next week, the ln~ernatwnal Tra?e. and Industry Ministry said Wednesday. Masah1ko Isono, a mm1stry official, said the ban will last at least until the end of the year. Japan has been under pressure to ban imports of ivory products to protect elephants, which are hunted for their ivory tusks. The United States, Britain, France and West Germany have banned ivory imports. Isono said Japan imported 106 tons of ivory last year, compared with 143 tons in 1987. In 1983, Japan imported 475 tons, lsono said. 
Sweden is offering courses to Soviet government offi­cials and businessmen in Western-style economics, the Foreign Ministry said Wednesday. The Soviets "would learn how to run companies and to introduce a market economy," said spokeswoman Ranveig Jacobsson, of the foreign trade depart­ment. The proposal was presented Wednesday in Moscow by a visiting group of Swedish economists and government officials, she said. 1"We would like to respond to the positive Soviet interest in Swedish solutions to economic and social questions," the un­dersecretary of state, Michael Sohlman, said in a statement re­leased by the Swedish Embassy in Moscow. 


NATIONAL BRIEFS 
A San Antonio television station inadvertently aired 
several seconds of the final strobe-lit rape scene from the movie "Looking for Mr. Goodbar" during a morning chi~dren's p~ogram. The scene was broadcast Tuesday on KABB-TV m the middle of "Real Ghostbusters," a program that airs from 7 a.m. to 7:30 
a.m. Apparently one of KABB's producers was editing th~ .rape scene last week to air at night while the station was recmvmg a satellite feed of the cartoon. 
About 200 people who thought they had won free tickets for the California lottery and to professional sports games actually won a trip to jail, courtes~ of a police ~ting op.er~t~on. Letters from an official-soundmg but entirely fictitiOus "Bakersfield Area Department of Lottery" were mailed to misde­meanor and felony suspects who police had been unable to arrest. 


INDIANA BRIEFS 
A powerful bomb exploded while a construction union of­ficial was starting his truck Wednesday, killing the man and hurl­ing his body about 50 feet, police said. Joseph Bova, 43, was fi­nancial secretary and a part-time field representative for Labor­ers Local 81 in Valparaiso. His truck had been parked outside his home, said police Chief Jerry McCory. Arcine Cook Sr., president of the local, said he knew of no problems or threats against Bova. 

WEATHER 

Cloudy and cool 
Cloudy and cool Thursday with a 30 percent chance of light rain. Highs from 55 to 60. Partly _ cloudy Thursday night. Lows from 50 to 55. Partly sunny Friday. Highs from 70 to 75. 
Information compiled from Observer wires and Observer staff reJ)!lrts. 
The Observer Thursday, September 14, 1989 
Being a lifeguard is not all sunshine and babes 
A couple of weeks back, a column by Colleen 
Cronin appeared in this space. She detailed the 
trials and tribulations of working in a White 
Hen, where people run to when they run out. As 
I read the column, I realized that my summer 
job would also be worthy of discussing. 
Yes, I know the "What I did over my summer 
vacation" thing is getting a little old. All I can 
say is, TOUGH LUCK, if you don't like it, you 
can stop reading this paper and be forced to 
engage in stilted conversation with the person 
who is sitting across from you-a person who, 
at this very moment, is probably belching and 
emptying the sugar container into his grape 
juice. 

This past summer marked my fourth summer 
as a member of the Chicago Park District Life­
guard Service. The members of this prestigious 
organization are well trained, competent, and 
have enough connections to get a job in which 
they are grossly over-paid to guard the lives of 
the people of the Windy City. 
I would like to start by defending the lifeguard profession in general. Most people have a dis­torted and glorified view of a lifeguard's job, This is mostly because of Hollywood's portrayal of guards as muscular Frankie Avalon-types who are surrounded by luscious babes covering them with natural oils and herbs. This, of course, is exactly correct. But seriously, the job is a lot harder than you'd think. 
As anyone who knows me would attest, I am far from a bronze god. I probably resemble Mr. Salty a lot more than Mr. Universe. If you were to look at my co-workers, you'd see that there are few Greek Adonises among us. The number of well-defined biceps is far less than the num­ber of well-defined beer bellies. 
Also, we don't get paid to lounge around the shores of Lake Michigan to sit in big chairs looking like L.L Cool J. in his ''I'm That Type of Guy" video. We have to stand on 1 0-foot perches, balancing precariously in an attempt to dodge insults, thrown objects, and even seagull artillery. Balancing is a job in itself on windy days or on Saturday mornings when you're suf­fering from Bottle Fatigue (or so my friends tell me, Mom.) 
In addition, my beach seems to have forgotten to employ any bathing beauties. Most of the fe­male patrons are 3,000-pound sunburned senior citizens who always say, in their sexy raspy voice: 
"Hey lifeguard, if I drown, will YOU save me? 
(belch!)" 
Yeah, sure thing lady. 
The rest of our patrons are part of several 
youth organizations that frequent low-income neighborhoods. The Latin Kings, The Wander­ers, and The Bad Boys always frequent the beach after their ice cream socials and s'mores parties. They often bring the switchblades that were used to cut the s'mores or the lead pipes necessary to scoop ice cream. 


OF INTEREST 
Right to Life will hold an organizational meeting today at 7:30 pm in LaFortune's Mont­gomery Theatre. A film will be shown and sign­ups for committees will be taken. 
The Ballroom Dance Club will have its first meeting today in the Rockne Memorial gym at 7 p.m. Everyone is invited and no experience is necessary to join. 
The Hesburgh Program in Public Service is holding a mandatory meeting today at 6:30 
p.m. in 104 O'Shaughnessy. Student members of the Executive Committee will be selected and program planning will be done at this meeting. 

'I was then hit by a barrage of Ballistic Heat-Seeking Seagull turds.' 
John O'Brien 
Copy Editor 

Prof. Delgado-Gomez would be happy to know 
that I had plenty of practice with my Spanish. 
Here's a typical example: 
Me: Hey, move in, you're out too far. 
Smiling Gang Member: *!#@/> ... Gringo! (This, 
translated into English means, "Thank you for 
your concern, I will move in promptly, sir." 
Me: No problem, that's my job. 
Despite the several death threats I received 
this summer, the greatest danger I faced was 
from the future of our nation: the children. 
On one occasion, it was about 100 degrees, we 
had over 75,000 patrons, and I had just entered 
the comfortable fiberglass rowboat for a 3 hour 
shift. Immediately, a group of shrieking 6-year 
olds approached me and said, "You're ugly!" I, 
of course, did my job and ignored them. Soon 
the insults drifted to comments about my. sexual 
orientation as well as my lack of several essen­
tial reproductive organs. 
As if their articulate criticisms of my person­ality weren't enough, they began to hurl huge chunks of sand and seaweed, with deadly accu­racy. When we are harassed by a patron, we are instructed to blow the whistle twice and assis­tance will come. Sure, like I'm going to call my boss and have him run down the beach to find me being attacked by Tatoo and the Killer Munchkins. I merely sat in the boat fantasizing what terrible things I could do to these punks with common power tools. 
Just then, a light drizzle began. So I'm sitting in a boat, trying to guard the lives of the people of the fine city of Chicago and I'm being pelted by organic material, discovering new things about my mother's dating habits, and getting drenched with acid rain. What else could go wrong? I asked. 
I found out. I was then hit by a barrage of Ballistic Heat-Seeking Seagull Terds. Life lost its meaning. I cleaned myself off, and waited to get off duty. Eventually I did. On my way in, I spotted the little sprites who had terrorized me so. Being mature I turned my back and left, only to return and club them mercilessly like baby seals. Satisfied, I signed out and went home. 
Therefore, you can see that my summer job is not as easy as it may seem. Despite all of the trouble I got, I will return to it next year. C'mon, where else can you get so much and have so much fun, free tan included? 
The Notre Dame Marketing Club will be holding its organizational meeting today at 7 
p.m. in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium, room 122. 
New members of AIESEC will meet tonight in room 124 Hayes-Healy at 6 p.m. A meeting for all others will be held at 6:30 p.m. For more information. Call Jeff at 283-3376. 
Free tickets are available for today's Garth Brooks concert. Students with valid Notre Dame or Saint Mary's identification may pick up two tickets at the O'Laughlin box office until 5 p.m. The concert featuring Brooks and guests is tonight at 7 p.m. in the O'Laughlin Auditorium. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College, Subscnpt1ons may be pur­chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. . . 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
Design Editor ............... Tricia Grohman 
Design Assltant ......... Kristen Costello 
Typesetters ................... Molly Schwartz 
.................... Dan Towers Assistant News Editor.... Greg Lucas News Copy Editor... Sandra Wiegand Sports Copy Editor Steve Magargee ......................................................Mary Garino Viewpoint Editor .............. Kevin Reisch Viewpoint Copy Editor Janice O'Leary Viewpoint Layout... .......... Katie Foster Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin Accent Copy Editor ..........Terri Walsh Accent Designer ............. Alison Cocks Typists ............................Erin Schirtzinger NO Day Editor ............... Colleen Malloy Photographer ........................ Joe Vittaco Ads Designers ....................... Val Poletto ................................................... Meg Callahan 
.....................Kathleen O'Connor Business Editor .................. Liz Panzica Business Copy Editor Lauren Deluca 


A taste of summer 
Despite the chilly weather, Francis Deck treats himself to an ice cream cone in the basement of LaFor­tune. 
61,000 flee Vietnam in 8 months 
Associated Press 
GENEVA-More than 61,000 boat people fled Vietnam in the first eight months of this year, a figure higher than any full year since 1981, and Hong Kong is bearing the brunt of the influx, a U.N. group said Wednesday. 
"The situation in Hong Kong continues to look very worry­ing," said Raymond Hall, a spokesman for the Office of the 
U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees. 
The office registered 61,345 arrivals in countries of first asylum in South East Asia and Japan from January through August, just before seasonal conditions traditionally slow down the exodus. 
The outflow compared with 45,500 for last year and 7 4,000 in 1981. Hong Kong reportP.d 
32,000 arrivals during the first eight months, almost twice the 1988 total of 18,400, the U.N. group said. 
In recent weeks, there have been numerous fights in the crowded Hong Kong camps, and cholera has broken out among other Vietnamese refugees living in primitive con­ditions on outlying islands. 
Most of the newcomers in the British colony face forced repa­triation as "economic mi­grants" because only those boat people who arrived before June 16, 1988, were automati­cally considered to be fleeing political persecution and thus eligible for refugee status. 
In June, a 60-nation confer­ence in Geneva formally en­dorsed a plan to curb the out­flow but did not commit itself on how to deal with economic refugees. 
Hall said it was still too early to assess the impact of the con­ference, saying there were "definite signs of abatement" in some regions. 
The measures adopted by the Geneva conference call for ef­forts to encourage the volun­tary return of migrants who are refused refugee status. So far, only 260 have gone back despite formal assurances by Communist Vietnam that they are welcome and need not fear any reprisals. 
Vietnam's foreign minister, Nguyen Co Thach, said Wednesday that Vietnam re­mains opposed to any forced return of the boat people. 
The Vietnamese official also said negotiations with Wash­ington were continuing regard­ing the 94,000 former detainees of Vietnamese "re-education" camps 
The following individuals are the winners of the LaFortune Open House raffle. VJinners may pick up their orizes at the respective
businesses.  '  
Trustcorp  $50 savings bond  J. Coquillard  
Country Harvester  various gifts  Danni Black Mary Bernard M.G. Viganti Jean Choi  

The following winners may pick up their prizes from room 315 of 
the LaFortune Student Center. University Hair Stylists shampoo LaFortune Info Desk Windy City Shuttle Pass Leprechaun Pizza from the Huddle 
Hoops contest winner Timothy J. Mullek 
Christine Rodriguez 
Ed Barwidge Gene Richmond Dolores Michalski Nina Pangilinan Nhung Pham Becky Dechellis Melinda Tieway Katie Eusterman Marsha Kopacz 
Jim Milligan 
A special thanks to all the businesses that participated in the LaFortune Open House. 
20,000 protest police brutality in South Africa 
Associated Press 
CAPE TOWN, South Africa­More than 20,000 peaceful protesters sang songs of free­dom and waved banners de­nouncing police brutality on Wednesday in the biggest anti­government march ever permit­ted in this country. 
Police stayed out of sight as marchers, led by black leaders and Cape Town's white mayor, clogged a mile-long route lead­ing from St. George's Anglican Cathedral to City Hall. 
Organizers described the march as a historic occurrence in this racially divided nation. 
"We have scored a great vic­tory for justice and peace," An­glican Archbishop Desmond Tutu told a crowd of 1,800 black, white and mixed-race marchers who packed City Hall while thousands of others stood outside. 
He said acting President F.W. de Klerk should have been pre­sent "to see what this country is going to become ... a techni­color country." 
The absence of police con­trasted sharply with protest marches two weeks ago in Cape Town that were broken up by riot squads using whips, batons and a water cannon that sprayed purple water. 
"It is ·important to know we could have this peaceful march toward our freedom," said the Rev. Frank Chikane, secretary­general of the South African Council of Churches. "Once that has started today, no one can ever stop it again." 
Protest demonstrations nor­mally are illegal in South Africa, and the Cape Town po­lice commander, Maj. Gen. Phillipus Fourie, said last week he would stop Wednesday's march. But de Klerk announced Tuesday evening that the protest could proceed because he had been assured it would be peaceful. 
The far-right Conservative Party, the largest white opposi­tion group in Parliament, said Wednesday that approval of the march was "capitulation" to radicals. 
Koop criticizes U.S. tobacco marketing 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Surgeon General C. Everett Koop criticized U.S. tobacco marketing at home and abroad Wednesday, backing a bill to keep cigarette machines away from minors and declaring America is not respected overseas "because of the manner in which we export disease and death." 
Koop said the epithet "ugly American" will "indeed come home to roost in a decade or two when the developing countries of today realize what we did to them." 
He said the wide availability of cigarette vending machines in the United States makes a mockery of laws forbidding minors to buy cigarettes. 
He said the machines give youngsters easy access to tobacco and send a message that this country isn't worried that they will become addicted. 
"Would we tolerate the sale of alcoholic beverages through vending machines?" he asked. "Would we allow free samples of alcoholic beverages to be sent through the mail or passed out on public property? Of course not." 



The Midwest's Hottest College Rock Group from Louisville, Kentucky 
SEPT. 22 & 23 
Club Shenanigans D 





The Observer/Joe Vitacco
Just a check-up 

Or. Bernard Vagner examines Jeffrey Salamon Wednesday in the Health Center. 
Democrats challenge drug plan 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Senate Democrats, courting a show­down with the White House, said Wednesday that President Bush's $7.9 billion anti-drug package was inadequate and vowed to press their own more costly plan unless Republicans agreed to major expansions. 
The Democrats made their decision in a closed strategy session as drug coordinator William Bennett continued his defense of the administration's plan, saying the blueprint was "our best assessment" of what is needed to combat illegal 
Pension 
continued from page 1 
"The problems of pension 
termination and skimming 
show. the fatal flaw in a priva­
tized social insurance system," 
Ghilarducci said. "Since the 
pension system is set up on a 
voluntary basis, companies 
facing severe competition or 
cash flow problems will take 
money from the plan to sup­
port other business opportuni­
ties." 
The economist advocates re­
tirement income security and 
public-provided and public-di­
rected capital investment 
through an expanded Social Se­
curity System. 
The government, Ghilarducci 
said, should revise the system 
to include mandatory pension 
plans with guaranteed funds 
for employees, tight regulation 
of the use of excess assets and 
plans which are sensitive to 
various occupational needs. 
A coal miner who may prefer 
early retirement for health rea­
sons and an older professor 
who might want to draw par­
tial pension while teaching 
part-time are not differentiated 
in the present system, she ex­
plainnd. 
, •.__ 
ND TICKETS NEEDED 
ALL 

Games Call TODAY for immediate CASH 
1-800-828-8955 
drugs. 
"Is it impossible to spend more? No," Bennett told a House committee, but added it is unclear where more money could be used effectively. The Democrats want to up the spending by $2.2 billion. 
Senate Majority Leader Ge­orge Mitchell, D-Maine, said Democrats have offered to ne­gotiate on a compromise with the White House and Republi­cans. 
"The president's plan must be improved," Mitchell told re­porters. "Its goals must be set higher. Its strategies to meet the goals must be changed." 

Democrats emerged from their meeting saying the pro­posal by Sen. Robert Byrd, D­W.Va., to add the $2.2 billion to Bush's total by cutting a half percent from the budgets of other programs had their sup­port. 
"If we can't find that in ev­erybody's department, we're not serious about fighting the war on drugs," said Sen. John Breaux, D-La., predicting that most Democrats would fall into line behind Byrd's plan. 
"I think the Democrats want to do something on drugs and they want to do it now," said Sen. Dennis DeConcini, D-Ariz. 
Joy, Beth, Anne 

We sent our best "BROWNIES" to ND-SMC 
Thursday, September 14, 1989 
Namibian nationalist set to end 30-year exile 
Associated Press 

WINDHOEK, Namibia -The president of Namibia's inde­pendence movement will end a 30-year exile and return to his homeland despite the assassi­nation of another nationalist leader, officials said Wednes­day. 
A Namibian newspaper on Wednesday said callers claim­ing to represent a white supremacist group claimed re­sponsibility for the killing Tuesday of Anton Lubowski, an official of the South-West Africa People's Organization. 
Sam Nujoma, president of the nationalist group, will return Thursday even though there have been threats against his life, the organization said in a statement. Nujoma has lived principally in Angola during his self-imposed exile. 
Posters appeared in Wind­hoek on Wednesday with a pho­tograph of Nujoma and a tar­get superimposed on his face. 
Nujoma is returning to Namibia to take charge of his group's campaign for elections scheduled for early November, a prelude to Namibian indepen­dence from South Africa. 
South Africa, which ruled Namibia 74 years, has agreed to implement independence in the territory under United Na­tions supervision. Independence is expected early next ynar. 
Lubowski, a Namibian lawyer and the nationalist group's top­ranking white official, was shot in the head outside his home in a Windhoek suburb. 
The 3 7 -year-old Lubowksi was widely known abroad, and his killing was condemned by officials from the United States, Britain, West Germany, Norway, Sweden, and Zambia, among others. 
Gwen Lister, editor of The Namibian, said she received two phone calls Wednesday from men saying they belonged to the White Wolves and that the white supremacist organi­zation killed Lubowski. 
Ms. Lister said one of the callers also threatened her for supporting the South-West Africa People's Organization, the black-dominated movement that waged a 23-year guerrilla war against South African rule of Namibia. 
Men identifying themselves as Whites Wolves have carried out several attacks on blacks and anti-apartheid activists in South Africa. 
'78 Trlump Sp!ltflre 49,000 miles 3 tops, Pioneer Stereo Dependable and economical $4500-Price negotiable 
234-1603 


~;NII/Iif'b.l 
at Saint Mary's College 

1989-90 PERFORMING ARTS SERIES 
Friday, September 15 DANCE KALEIDOSCOPE  Friday, October 6 THE MINNES(JfA OPERA MADAME BUTIERFLY with full orchestra  
Friday, February 9 CHAMBER BLUES with  Friday, April 20  
CORKY SIEGEL  CHICAGO  
& THE CONSORTIUM STRING QUARTET  CITY LIMITS  

All performances 8 p.m., O'Laughlin Auditorium Series subscriptions and individual performance tickets available at the Saint Mary"s box office. located in O"Laughlin Auditorium. Tickets by phone at 219 I 284·4626. VISA. MasterCard orders only. For updated program information. call the Saint Mary"s Campus Events Hotline, 674·0900. category 1740. 
---1%1--­
L---~-~F,~~;!!ie~n~d~s~o~fLB~una.n~:...~--.J·~-----Saint Marts Coil~~ iiiiiilliiiiiilliiiiiilliiiiiilliiiiii~.l
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 
!••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
@~lr ~[MV/(Q)[LV/~[Q)~~
.

• ~ Thursday, September 14
• oe~ 

:s'"~-Je TONIGHT! : General Meeting for all 
•

: interested in! Student Government 
•
• 0 
• ("<9~ 

: <>~6>c-t<i>/ \9J:(Q)(Q) ~D~m la IF©IT'it!UIITil~
. ~ 
q,~ : M©n~~©m~~ fo\QJJ(d]~~©W~QJlm «--e;.~ :
• 

: 
~ ~:
"'eFi>~e~ •
0-~ • 
'0°~ : 
:
• 
&,a : 
-o,.~::;~ ! 
•
• 
• 

.: 

Thursday, September 14, 1989 The Observer 
page 5 


U.S. and Soviets seek weapons agreement 
Associated Press Officials cautioned that final details remain to be worked out 
WASHINGTON -the United by U.S. and Soviet experts here States and the Soviet Union, next Monday and Tuesday. working together on a major arms-control front, are close to a landmark1agreement to dis­"We are certainly close," a close their stockpiles of chemi­U.S. official told The Associated cal weapons and permit inspec­Press. He said the memo­tion of their production facili­randum of understandingties, Bush administration offi­would permit each side to con­cials said Wednesday. duct short-notice inspection of 
tlle other's facilities. Also, the 

The goal is to announce the two sides would exchange data 
agreement at the Sept. 22-23 on their chemical weaponsmeeting at Jackson Hole, Wyo., arsenals. between Secretary of State James A. Baker III and Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard A. The unfinished details include Shevardnadze. the extent of the information to 
be disclosed to each other, said the official, who spoke on the 
President Bush will see She­condition of anonymity. Two vardnadze in Washington on other U.S. officials confirmed Sept. 21, an administration of­that an accord seemed to be ficial said. close to completion. 
Soviet authorities consider ethnic demands in Baku 
Associated Press Azerbaijan's Supreme Soviet, the legislature, will review the 
MOSCOW -Tens of thou­demands Friday. sands of people were told at a Wednesday night rally in Baku, He said in a telephone inter­Azerbaijan, that communist au­view that the legislature will thorities had agreed to consider consider pressing for an end to ethnic demands that touched the special status given to the off a widespread strike, a disputed Nagorno-Karabakh witness said. region in January; adopting a 
Ali Aliev, a member of the law on the republic's grass-roots People's Front sovereignty; pressing for re­group who attended the rally in lease of "political prisoners;" the southern republic's capital, and granting the People's Front said speakers announced that legal status. 
~ @ar-ioi'o ~~ 1A '2Rlotor-onte. ~
~ 

Now Hiring 
* Experienced Waitresses 
* Pizza Makers * Line Cooks *Part Time Banquet Waitresses 
Apply 2-5 pm 1412 South Bend Ave 232-4244 
----·;--·­

WE DELIVER 
Block East of Eddy on South Bend Avenu 232 -TIPS OPEN Tues.·· Sun. at 3 p.m. 


"MEXICAN INDEPENDENCE DAY" 
)t: ~ FIESTA·::~-JJ~.. ~Cf: FIELD~OUSE MALL ({:
THIS FRIDAY, SATURDAY, AND SUNDAY 
.. · 4.00 P.M . • (FRI.) SEPT. 15, 1989 
Save up to 70% on all skis, boots, the biggest preseason ski sale of bindings, poles, ski packages and the year. Plus shop our huge bike 
EVENTS WILL INCLUDE:
winter wear. Everything in the store selection. Accessories and clothing will be priced to sell!!! Don't miss marked for year end savings. 
1. 
Folklore Dance Group! 

2. 
Jalapeno Eating Contest!


3602 N. Grape Road Mishawaka, IN 
3. Pinata Breaking! 
259-1000 

Cash, Checks, VISA, MasterCard, Layaways accepted and encouraged. 

SPONSORED BY 
The Observer Thursday, September 14, 1989
page 6 
Patients must have patience in nation's emergency rooms 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -People seeking treatment in emergency rooms in many areas of the country are finding a medical gridlock that keeps patients waiting hours, even days. for hospital beds. emergency physi­cians said Wednesday. 
"We are on the verge of a major crisis," said Dr. Stephan Lynn, chairman of an American College of Emergency Physi­cians task force on hospital overcrowding and director of emergency medicine at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Cen­ter in New York City. 
The pressure on hospital emergency rooms is coming from the growing AIDS epi­demic, increased illegal drug use and an estimated 37 million Americans who have no health insurance and for whom the emergency room is often their only entry to the health care system, he said. 
This burden is exacerbated by medical staff shortages, finan­cial pressures that are leading a growing number of hospitals to close their doors. and an inadequate number of nursing home beds, Lynn said. 
In some cases, patients in emergency rooms in New York City have waited for in-patient hospital beds for more than a week, Lynn said. And though the problem is most critical in the Northeast and on the West Coast, a survey shows emer­gency rooms across the country are backed up. 

In a survey, 41 state chapters of the American College of Emergency Physicians reported overcrowding problems in emergency rooms in their states. Nine reported no backup problems: Idaho, Min­nesota, Nebraska, New Hamp­shire, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oregon, Utah and Wyoming. 
"This is affecting everybody, from the drug abuser to the homeless to the business execu­tive," said Dr. Charlotte Yeh, who sits on the college's board and is chief of emergency medicine at the Newton-Welles­ley Hospital in Newton, Mass. 
Lynn and Yeh said it is not known whether extended emer­gency room stays have led to more patient deaths, but they said the quality of care these patients receive often is marginal. 
"The lights never go out. The noise never turns off. Meals are served, but on an irregular ba­sis and rarely are as palatable or warm as they are on the in­patient side," Lynn said. 
"The patient has no access to a telephone, and access to a TV is beyond thought," he said. "The patient is lucky if they are able to see their visitors, and they spend their entire stay ly­ing on a stretcher with a mat­
tress that is two-inches thick." 
"That level of care is inade­quate," he said. "Emergency departments were not designed and are not equipped or staffed to provide intensive care ser­vices or in-patient services." 
At Harbor UCLA Medical Cen­ter in Los Angeles, the emer­gency room is so overcrowded it is closed to ambulance traffic 25 percent of the time, said Dr. Robert llockberger, chairman of the Department of Emer­gency Medicine. 
"That results in ambulances wandering around the city try­ing to find emergency depart­ments that are open," he said. 
Where can Morgan's Audit-Plus 11-aining Program lead you? Each year we hire a small team leading corporations and finance, economics, or other J.P Morgan & Co. Incorpo­of college graduates to partici­govenunents. Our business business subjects should have rated, 23 Wall Street, New pate in a unique management requires specialized support at least two courses in account­York, NY 10015. training program. Our pro­in areas such as risk analysis, ing for the general manage­gram, Audit-Plus, offers a control evaluation, accounting ment path and four courses for career path in either financial policies, and taxation. As an the financial management path. or general management at Audit-Plus trainee, your role Please plan to attend our J.P. Morgan. will be vital in providing this upcoming information session. Career J.P. Morgan develops and essential management support. Watch for the time and location Opportunitiesexecutes complex financial To qualify, graduates with on campus. Or contact Judith transactions for the world's concentrations in accounting, Lannin, Financial Recruiting, at Morgan C>l'M'IlP. !loopoaCo.l~. lP.IIoopa-doo-tdwOI."""""'...t..m.-ol lP. !loopo. u... l~. !loopo G-,y,.. C..,.,.lP. ~~oopos.ew;.;, a.... ...t-lP. ...... ......... JPMorgan  

Business 
Thursday, September 14, 1989 page 7 
MBA program applications rise, majority possess work experience 
By LIZ PANZICA Business Editor 
The Master of Business Ad­ministration school at Notre Dame received 611 applicants for the 1989 school year, said Larry Ballinger, director of the MBA program. Ballinger added applications were up 12 percent from the previous year. In 1988 applications had increased by 18 percent. 
Ballinger claimed that follow­ing the lead of larger business schools, Notre Dame has ac­cepted a greater number of students with previous work experience. He said, "In our three-semester program, 70 percent have work experience. In our two-year program, 60 percent have work experience." 
The average length of time spent in the work force is three years. 
The school accepted 233 stu­dents to the University's two­year program and 119 to the accelerated three-semester program, said Ballinger. Out of that group, 103 enrolled in the two-year program, and 73 into the shortened program. 
The MBA program draws from some 76 undergraduate institutions in 20 states. But, Ballinger said, the school is still "Midwestern and Eastern ori­ented, but California has pro­vided a great number of stu­dents," as has Texas. He added that 17 percent of the MBA student body is foreign, coming from 13 different countries, in­cluding Japan and Taiwan. 
The MBA program is rela­tively young at Notre Dame, having graduated only 23 classes. Ballinger said the pro­gram has "put a concentrated effort in recruitment with mail­ings and career days." The program has not been men­tioned among the top 10 or 20 MBA programs in the last cou­ple of years. But, said Ballinger, the situation is changing. "Momentum is be­ginning to happen which is a 

combination of efforts," he said. "Quality has improved with the last couple of years." 
Ballinger doesn't foresee any large growth in the student body population any time soon. He added that the school is striving "basically to increase the quality of the student, then look at increasing the size." 
MBA Class of 1991 * at a glance: 
Class Size: 103 
Women: 32°/o 
Foreign: 17°/o 
Average Age: 24 Range: 21·35 
Work Experience: 60% Average: 3 Vears 
*Students enrolled in the two year program 
Secretary Mosbacher calls for changes in Japanese economy 
Associated Press 
TOKYO -U.S. Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher called Wednesday for struc­tural changes in Japan's economy and fewer trade barriers to allow the United States to compete with Japan and to benefit Japanese consumers. 
The plight of Japanese consumers, who pay among the highest prices in the world for housing and food, results directly from the country's closed market, Mosbacher said. 
"All we're doing is asking for the right to come here and compete," he told re­porters during a 15-day trip to Asia and Eastern Europe. 
Aides traveling with Mos­bacher said his meetings Wednesday with officials of the Posts and Telecommuni­cations Ministry produced "non-responses to a number of concerns" of the United States, among them access to the market for satellites, digital switching equipment and optical fibers. 
Mosbacher also joined a government-sponsored meeting of 83 foreign com­panies doing business in Japan. It was the first in a series of forums meant to expand imports. 
Hikaru Matsunaga, Japan's minister of interna­tional trade and industry, told the group that imports rose 11.3 percent in the first half of 1989. 
Mosbacher acknowledged several areas in which Japan voluntarily has limited its ex­ports to the United States­steel, textiles, semiconduc­tors and machine tools. But he said these are the excep­tion. 
"The United States is the largest and the most open market in the world and, un­fortunately, Japan is among the most closed," he said. 
He said the $52 billion U.S. merchandise trade deficit with Japan last year was "still far too high," but noted it had declined 32 per­cent from its peak in the third quarter of 1987. 
Mosbacher said the United States is working to reduce its federal budget deficit, in­crease domestic savings to lower the cost of capital, and emphasize long-term busi­ness planning. 
But he asked Japan to pro­duce urgently some "made in Japan" solutions to the problems its export-led eco­nomic success has caused the United States. 

FOREIGN POLICY WEEK 
The general purpose of this week is to initiate a dialogue on the topic of foreign relations, with special emphasis on the place of the United States in a changing world. 
** Monday, Sept. 18, A Debate between the College Democrats and the Young Republicans, concerning issues of foreign relations Theodore's 7:30pm 
•• Tuesday, Sept. 19, Lecture by the Hon. Robert McFarlane; "The Changing Distribution of Global Power'' Washington Hall 8:00pm 
** Wednesday, Sept. 20, Lecture by Dr. Daniel Ellsberg; "Appropriate Responses of Government Officials to Unlawful War'' Washington Hall 8:00pm Co-sponsored by The Center for Social Concerns 
** Thursday, Sept. 21, Address by David and Marjorie Ransom; "Making the Dual Career Family Work: Perspectives from the Foreign Service" Hayes-Healy 122 8:00pm 
Co-sponsored by the Hesburgh Program in Public Service 
Gender Studies 

The Year of the Family 
** Friday, Sept. 22, David &Marjorie Ransom: Meeting with students interested in Foreign Service 307 O'Shag. 9:30-11:30am Co-sponsored by the Hesburgh Program in Public Service Institute of lnternationai•Peace Studies 
TICKET INFORMATION: Ticket sales for Robert McFarlane and Daniel Ellsberg will be on sale at the LaFortune Information Desk beginning on Wednesday, September 13. Prices:Robert McFarlane 
Notre Dame Community$3.00 Others $5.00 
Daniel Ellsberg 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Notre Dame Community $2.00 Other $4.00 

.------------------------~~---------------~---------­
Viewpoint
page 8 
___ ---. -.&.-=Y=-'-' ---===
-Ih~e-Obse~~~r-
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Regis Coccia 

Exec. News Editor ...... Matthew Gallagher Viewpoint Editor... ~~ ~~~····~····Dave Bruner Sports Editor... . ............ Theresa Kelly Accent Editor ........................... John Blasi Photo Editor ............................. Eric Bailey Saint Mary's Editor ............ Christine Gill 
Business Manager Rich Iannelli 
Advertising Manager ............. Molly Killen Ad Design Manager ........ Shannon Roach Production Manager ............ Alison Cocks Systems Manager .............. Mark Derwent OTS Dlrector ................... Angela Bellanca Controller~.. ..~ ...Anne Lindner 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. II does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob­jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Damaging ripple effects in national security 
By Tony lang 
As a result of the recent stu­
dent government initiative to 
increase intellectual life on 
campus outside of the class­
room, the Student Union 
Board, through the Ideas and 
Issues Commission, has begun 
this column in the Observer in 
order to encourage discussion 
and debate on various issuns 
facing the ND/SMC community. 
We hope to coordinate this col­
umn with the various intellec­
tual events going on throughout 
the campus, whether they be 
sponson~d by SUB, student 
governnwnt, or any other or­
ganization. 
Although this column is writ­ten under the aegis of the Ideas and Issues Commission, it is important to realize that the opinions oll'ered here do not re­flect thosn of SUB or even the commission. By means of this column we hope to begin a dia­logue on different topics and we encourage a response, ei­ther through the Observer or by participation on our commis­sion. 
During the week of September 18-22, SUB will of­fer a series of lectures and de­bates on the topic of foreign relations, with a special em­phasis on the place of the United States in a changing world. Designah~d as Foreign Policy Week, it will be the result of cooperation between SUB, the esc. student government, and certain academic depart­ments. 
The two keynote speakers of the week will be Robert McFarlane and Daniel Ellsberg. McFarlane has worked in mili­tary and diplomatic circles for the past 30 years, culminating in his tenure as National Security Advisor to the presi­dent from 1983-1985. Daniel 
DOONESBURY 

Ellsberg was a high-ranking military analyst when, in 1969, he decided to release a top-se­cret study of the U.S. involve­ment in Vietnam, resulting in his indictment by the Nixon administration, which was later thrown out of court due to gov­ernment misconduct. 
Both McFarlane and Ellsberg hold impressive records as na­tional security analysts and policy makers, a fact often clouded over by their involve­ment in the Iran/Contra scandal and the Pentagon Papers, re­spectively. The emotions sur­rounding both of these events run high, having chased Ellsberg for the past 20 years. In order to compare the two men, one must look objectively at those events, without the po­litical ideologies which usually surface. 
McFarlane did not begin his secret overtures to Iran as a neofascist U.S. imperialist out to subvert the Congress by di­verting funds to the Contras. His initial motivation was to open up diplomatic channels to moderates in Iran in order to prepare for a post-Khommeni Iran. And, despite the Reagan administration's tough talk. the release of the hostages in Lebanon was also an overriding factor. Upon reading the Tower Commission Report, it seems evident that McFarlane never intended, nor was even aware of the diversion of funds to the Contras (although the same cannot be said for North and Poindexter). 
Ellsberg, on the other hand, did not decide to release the Pentagon Papers to the New York Times because he was a communist sympathizer hoping to undermine national security. As an analyst to the Pentagon during the administrations of Kennedym, Johnson, and Nixon, Ellsberg witnessed a de­cision-making process charac­terized by short-term analysis, strident anti-communism, and perverted ideas of U.S. nation­alism. Reading over the reports of various advisors, he also be­gan to see a picture of three presidents who did not want to go down in history as "being the first to lose a U.S. war" (paraphrase of President Johnson). 

So it seems that both had good intentions. But in matters as delicate and vital as national security, good intentions simply are not enough. The national security analyst or policy maker must always realize the ripple effects of any decision he makes. lie must be fully aware of the history of any situation he enters into, as well as the subtle nuances of diplomacy and military endeavors. 
In the case of the Iranian ini­tiative, it is more than obvious that the process was mishan­dled. The U.S. dealt mainly with a Mr. Ghorbanifar, an Iranian arms dealer, who turned out to be a deceiving middle man only out for his own aggrandize­ment. The effect of Iran on the kidnappers in Lebanon was also underestimated, with only one hostage being released due to their efforts. There was a clear misunderstanding on the part of the U.S. as to the mod­erate element in Iran and what could be accomplished through an arms transfer. Not only did the U.S. miscalculate the situa­tion in Iran, but they also did not expect the negative reaction from the public and other gov­ernments to the U.S.' suppos­edly neutral policy in the Iran/Iraq war. 
Ellsberg's decision, on the other hand, was a well thought out response to an obviously disastrous situation. As an analyst who, time and time again, had advised against 
further involvement in Vietnam. should not be viewed as a con­Ellsberg realized that the demnation or laudation of Pi­personalities of those in control tiler party. Neither should it be and the importance which they seen as a judgement of either put on public opinion would individual. llowever, if we are prevent him from having any able to take seriously the words effect as an analyst. Not only of philosophers and theologians did the U.S. governmrmt deceive concerning ethical action, it is the public as to its actual our duty to identify the good involvement and chances for and the bad. From this brid success; it was also being analysis, it semns clear that tlw deceived by members of its own actions of McFarlane deserve military and bureaucracy our criticism and those of Ellsberg, along with others, Ellsberg our praise. In making realized this deception and did this judgenwnt. we can only what he had to in order to hope that those who protect bring to light the egregious our national security will learn policies which wern being from tlw mistakes of followed. McFarlane and emulat1~ the 
hmwsty of Ellsberg. 

The actions of thesP two men and the events which surround Tony l.ang. lhC' ldC'as and them are not indicativP of the Issues Commissioner of Student two political parties for which Union Board.is a philosophy/ they worked, so this column PPh'lpC'ace studies major. 
LETTERS 

Lack of democratic principles instills respect for university authority 
Dear Editor: that I learnPd at tlw University 
Astonished indeed am I to of Notre Dame was discipline read Mark Derwent's article in and respect for authority. the August 31 issue of The These lessons have servnd me Observer. As a graduate of the WPII throughout my profes­University of Notre DamP and a sional earner which has in­28 year participant in the legal­cluded 30 ynars of serviee In the judicial system of the United Unites States Army Heserve. States, I would like to point out The fact that Mr. Derwent to Mr. Derwent that comparing complains is some proof that a private Catholic University to he is learning these lessons at a democratic government in a Notre Dame. pluristic society is like compar­Judge Hill GralJ(~S ing apples and oranges. There McCracken County is no comparison, and there District Court should be no comparison. Paducah, Kentucky 
The most important lesson Sept. 6, 1989 
Viewpoint is looking for those interested in be­coming regular columnists for the 1989-90 school year. Please contact Dave Bruner at 239-5303 for more information. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
OH... I FOR60T 70 

IS MY NOPe.~
I 7VW YOU IF He 
WHO 7"13~ YOU. MOM'S 
GRANfXHIW VET H/5R.
~ W/3R& OION'T 
1'3 COMING 70 SPI3N[) 
57/U. Al-IVB~ 8lfT Pt..eA~,
015TURBI!¥3 WANT 
7HAH A P£31AJ OAYS ... 
CDMB/N!

I I
P£30Pte, {.{)lr1PANY, 
'3/R.... Hl35fOUW
I HAVI3 SAJ[) 
S()l \ 
~ 

Thursday, September 14, 1989 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Campus Quote 

'What makes you human is your 
heart. And if you let my heart 
come to your heart, it is the place 
where we will see God.' 
Fr. Henri Nouwen September 7, 1989 


Accent
Thursday, September 14, 1989 page 9 

Giant Hissing Cockroaches, Bear Chow-eating bears, and Neo-Tropical Fruit Bats all at the zoo 
The tiger (below) and lynx (right) are safest in cages, but the Zoofarm (above right) features more friendly animals. 

Photography by Scott McCann 
Remember thumping on the glass trying to wake up the Argentine Horned Frog? And imitating the guttural snorts of the pigs? 
enough to pet through the fence (if you really want to); the Contact Corral affords the chance to tease live goats; and during the summer, pony rides are available at $1 per child. 
Throughout the zoo are slide presentations, most of them free, like Sir Malcolm Mallory's introduction to Old World Monkeys. But even the Mishawaka "Alive With Pride" filmstrip is (with Don Gardner on piano) worth the 25 cents, if for nothing else than the concluding "startling effects in 3-D." 
As you wander the Potawatorni world, there are endless signs to guide you. "Vanishing Animal" indicates any near-extinct species (so take a good look), and the friendly "Look What's New In Your Zoo!" sign alerts you to the latest animal additions (it's customary to welcome them). There's also the vaguely threatening, "Please leave the flowers so that others may enjoy them." And with every animal is a helpful identifying plaque that reveals a few interesting and sometimes highly disturbing facts about it. For instance, did you know that the 'Giant Hissing Cockroach is willing to breed in captivity? That the bears eat Bear Chow? That termites salivate? 
If all this is overwhelming you, take a break and stop by Barnyard Gifts for fake animal snouts and all your "I (heart) Potawatorni Zoo" bumper­sticker needs. Or try the concession stand featuring (tlie inevitable) hot dogs. 
The zoo is also of great historical significance. It began in 1917 with some buffalo, making it Indiana's first zoo. 
Today the Potawatorni Zoo is horne to more than 400 mammals, birds, and reptiles. It's open year-round, from 10 
a.m. to 5 p.m. daily, and also provides a picnic area. If you really enjoy your visit, you might even want to join the Potawatorni Zoological Society, Inc., which offers, among other tempting benefits, free admission, an issue of Zoo's News, and the Special 
Members' window decal (not 
found in stores). 
At the end of a day at the zoo, you should be exhausted, feel closer to nature, and smell faintly of guinea pigs. You're sad to leave, but you know you'll be back-to see the American Prairie Exhibit under development, to buy an inflatable boa constrictor, and to keep an eye on those Giant Hissing Cockroaches. 
PAIGE SMORON 
assistant accent editor 
If you think you've seen all South Bend has to offer­you've mini-golfed through countless windmills, you've hung out at both major malls, you've even bowled without beer-then you need a trip to the zoo. 
For only $2 and a quick trip off campus to the Potawatorni Zoo, you can relive those exotic thrills you probably last experienced in fifth grade. Remember thumping on the glass trying to wake up the Argentine Horned Frog? And imitating the gutteral snorts of the pigs to the great amusement of your classmates? It can all be yours again, and more, because the beauty of the zoo is that every time you go, you find something new. 
The Potawatorni experience begins in the Learning Center, which houses, among many other exhibits, the Nco­Tropical Fruit Bat, and elaborate faux swamp settings. From there, the zoo-goer, with the aid of a free map (one per group, please), can explore the fauna of Eurasia, Africa, Australia, South or North America. The Cats, Bears, and Old World Monkeys can be visited at stops along the way. Chimpanzee Island, near the Africa section, draws a large crowd, and Zoofarrn is always a favorite. 
If you like to be at one with nature, the Potawatorni Zoo provides opportunities to interact with the wildlife. Some animals, like the buffalo in "North America," come close 
------------~--------~----~---~-----------­
page 10  The Observer  Thursday, September 14, 1989  
Classifieds  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.  
WANTED: Male or female student photographer, experienced in allI NOTICES phases of photography including  For Sale -t 980 Dodge Asp$750. Grad student needs 272-9027  en $$$ HELP!! I NE$. ANY GAME. STUPLEASE CALL K ED 2,3 or 4 TIX TO LET'S TRADE! WILL TRADE 2 ROLLING D OR GA HAVE: HOTEL ROOMS FOR STONES TIX (CINCINNATI, SEPT. ATHY X4421$$$ MICHIGAN STATE WEEKEND. 14) FOR 2 USC GA'S CALL TIM  
darkroom, to work 12 hours/week  NEED: 2 NO/USC GA'S. X3574  
PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard in ultra-modern University  1972 OLDSMOBILE NINE TY­ MEGAN4825.  
3 blks. from ND campus 233-2342 photographic facility. Call Bruce  EIGHT. GOOD CONDITIO N. CALL IN NEED OF 4 M IAMI GA'S AND HELP EDUCATE MY  
$$$ FOR YOUR BOOKS Harlan or Jaime Cripe 239-7350.  291-8283 AFTER 5:00P.M.  2 PITT GA'S --D ESPERATE CULTURALLY REPRESSED  
WE BUY AND SELL USED  $$$ CALL JEFF  X3555 BUY&SELL RELATIVES FROM WYOMING BY  
TEXTBOOKS 11111111111111!11 MUST HAVE 2 MICH ST GA'S & 2  MICHIGAN GA'S SELLING ME 2 GA'S TOMICH ST.  
STU TIX. $$NO OBJECT .WILL  CHARGE BY PHONE X1859  
My husband & I are longing to THROW IN FREE PITT TICK adopt a child. We have gone CALL JOHN X2065  nCKETS  NEED 1 STUDEof M game! Kath NT TICKET for U (313) 665-9900 I MR. O'STEEN leen 283-4930 NEED 4 MICHIGAN STATE GA'S  
through a home study and have  FIVE BEAUTIFUL BABES NEED AND ONE STUDENT. WILLING  
been approved by a licensed  NEED 3 MICH S T. TIX CALL MICH. ST. STUDENT TIX. PLEASE TO PAY GOOD$$$$ X3107-JIM  
agency. If you should know of HELP I III I need a ride to Ann  NEED 4 TIX FOR Ml STAT E! KEVIN x-1491  HELP US! CALL 3885. WILL PAY 271-9895 -TESSA  
anyone who is considering Arbor. MICHIGAN this weekend Ill  PLEASE CALL #3803  $$.  
releasing a child for adoption, $$$ Please call DEVON  NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICHIG Desperate! Will gAN  ive my first born NEED GA'S FOR USC, NAVY,  
please call Marie or Rick collect #284-4236  or any $ for 2 US C GAs Chris B I NEED 2 MICH. ST. GA'S. YOU MIAMI. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS.  
(219) 259-0160  STATE GAME. WILL PAY COR EXCHANGE 2 GA'S FO ASH #1484R  NEED EXTRA CASH. LET'S TALK. CALL X2335. PLEASE CALL KEN AT 3277.  
Word processing experience plus Need rides to BRANFORD  NAVY GAME. CALL TIM,  MICHIGAN GA'S  FOR SALE!! •••••••••••REM FANs•••••••••••••  
BA in English 271-0682. MARSALIS and/or PAT METHENY  FLANNER HALL EXT. 114 3. MICHIGAN GA'S  FOR SALE!! NEEDED: 2 MICH. ST. GA'S. I HAVE 2 TIX FOR THE ALPINE  
concerts (15th & 24th) Please call If you haven't picked up your Brian x3367  call Matt -3233  PLEASE CALL LAWLOR 3278. VALLEY SHOW 9/30 FOR YOU! PARKING IS INCL. CALL MEG AT  
Value Check coupon book, please  NEED 2 USC & 2MICH ST.  TIX CA LAWYER NE EDS USC GA'slll NEED 4 USC GA'S. CALL 271­2894  
pick them up from the Information I WANT YOUR $99 AIRLINE  PLEASE!!  PLEASE CALL A MBER x252911!1 9830.  
Desk, 1st Floor LaFortune. TICKET VOUCHER FROM AM.  Xt058  WANTED: 1 OR 2 MICHIGAN  
Open 9am-9pm weekdays, and EXPRESS! JULIE x2645  NEED 4 Michigan  State GA's and DESPERATELY SEEKING 5 USC STATE STUDENT OR GA  
Noon-9pm weekends.  1 Michigan State  Student. If you GA'S. PLEASE CALL CARl 2855. TICKETS. CALL MICHELLE AT  
have any of thes e tickets we have 2677.  
TYPING AVAILABLE.  WANTED-"tO" PITT-NOT RE good $$$$for yo u. Please call NEED 3-4 MICH. STATE TIX.  
287-4082.  DAME FOOTBALL TICKET S FOR Jim at x 3107 (or)LL PAT  LAURA 2533. NEED 2 PITT GA'S PLEASE CALL  
COLLECT AT (412) 372-30 SAT. 10/28/89. PLEASE CATessa at 271-9800.  95 KATHY X276t NEED 2 USC GA'S. WILL PAY TOP  
NEED MICH. STATE TIX!!  $$$. CALL JACK 2366. WE DESPERATELY NEED  
BUMPED FROM YOUR FLIGHT?  Stud. orGA  TICKETS TO ANY HOME GAME. 
\ LOST/FOUND I'LL BUY YOUR FREE TICKET!  CALL Mike #2742  NEED 2 MICH ST  GAS--WILLING H.......E.....L.....P WILLING TO PAY BIG$$! PLEASE  
Julie x2645  TOPAY. CALL  NEED 2-4 GA'S (TOGETHER) HELP! CALL Xt338 ASK FOR  
Lost: pr. black Vuarnets. Left at  NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICHIG AMY AT 2654.AN  FOR ANY GAME. WILL PAY BIG JENNIFER OR EVELYN  
LaFortune's Auto-bank teller on 9/11, at 1 1:05AM . Call Tim X4043  STATE GAME. WILL EXCH2 GA'S FOR USC, 2 GA'S F ANGE OR  MOOLAH ($$). PLEASE CALL JEFF 277-3998. NEED ANY OR ALL STU. TIX. FOR 
Desperately seeking 4 MSU and 4 PittGA's  NAVY OR PAY CASH. CAL HELP! Need 4 PitL TIM,  t GAs for my NEW ROOMMATE. PLEASE  
FOUND: PR. OF HARD Call Jenny at 284-4213  FLANNER HALL, EXT. 114 family Call Chad3.  xt t 32 DESPERATE$$$ HELP! 271-5686  
CONTACTS outside of LYONS HALL. Please see Sister Jeannine YOU NEED MONEY. WE NEED  Need 1 STU for M NEED ONE USC STUDENT ich St and 4 SMU TICKET. AFTER THE ILLINOIS GAME  
of Lyons if they are yours. MONEY. CHICAGO-BASED  HELP ME  GAS Kim 3881  MONEY NO OBJECT! WHO WANTS TO SEE USC? MY  
INNOVATIVE SPORTSWEAR  I NEED MICH ST. & USC TI X  CALL TONY AT 1468. SISTER, THAT'S WHO. I NEED 2  
FOUND: MIKE FROM MAINE, I COMPANY SEEKS CAMPUS  2 G.A.'S & 4STUDS.  Need up to 4 Mich Money no proble St & 8 Pitt TIX USC PLEASE CALL PETE 3373. m!! Mike X1236 
FOUND YOUR WALLET IN Ct/01 SALES REPRESENTATIVE. MUST LOT ON 911 t. TO CLAIM CALL BE CREATIVE AND  CALL NICOLE X2818  NEED 1 MICH. ST. STUDENT, 1 USC TIC, HAVE 1 SMU STUD.$$ I NEED 6 PITT TICKETS CALL  
1069. ENTHUSIASTIC. PLEASE PHONE  CHRIS 1861. 277-9281 OR X2760.  
312-943-6105.  WE NEED MICHIGAN STA I Need Tix For AnTE GA or Student. C y Home Game. WILL PAY$$$$$$$$$ all Matt 283-3372  
FOUND: TAN PUPPY WITH LEATHER COLLAR NEAR MOM NEEDS RESPONSIBLE  TICKETS: 2 GA AND 2 STCALL RICHARD OR AND UDENT. REA  NEED 2 GA'S FOR PITT. CALL DAVE 1597. Need two SMU tix please call 284­ 
TURTLE CREEK. CALL 272-8124 STUDENT TO HELP W/9 YR OLD  AT 271-0519.  I need Mich. state and student tix fo tix--GAs 4930!!!!!!!!!! r my wealthy HELP! I NEED 2 TIX TO THE 
OR 272-7759. BOY. MUST HAVE OWN TRANSPO. FOR MORE INFO  girlfriend and her  family. MICH. STATE GAME. PLS. CALL DESIRE 2 M.S.U. TICKETS.  
LOST -GOLD HS CLASS RING CALL BETH@ 234-7444.  ALUMNUS WANTS 2 TO 3  Please call John aGA'S  t 2600 MAURA X288-0885. PRICE IS IMMATERIAL AT THE  
WfTIGER ON FACE & STATE  FOR USC OR PITT!!  and leave a mess age. MOMENT. CALL 283-1983.  
CHAMPIONSHIP RING, BOTH THE GROOVE IS LOOK FOR A FROM ROCK SPRINGS HIGH  CALL LENNY COLLECT D AYS I Need USC-SMU NEED MICH. ST. TIXI! -PITT-MICH TIX I'LL GIVE YOU ANYTHING. HELP!! I NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE 
BASSPLAYER. ANYONE SCHOOL. LARGE REWARD INTERESTED? DIG. CALL LEROY  AND EVENINGS (217) 785 -2217. CALL TODD AT x 4358 or 461 8 CALL TRACY 3865. MICHIGAN STATE GAME (SEPT  
OFFERED. X1861 AT X2932 OR LOLIN Xt354  23) CALL MELISSA AT 4036  
LOST: GOLD CLADDAGH RING ATTENTION: EXCELLENT  NEED PITT GA'S WILL DO ANYTHING TO  Rich alum needs  PLEASE! FAMILY COMING FROM 2 PITT GA's. Call CA. NEED MICH. ST. OR USC TIX. WANTED: 2 TICKETS TO EITHER  
OUTSIDE O'SHAG. DIAMOND INCOME FOR HOME ASSEMBLY  GET THEM  Tomat1771.  HAVE$$ OR TIX TO TRADE. PLS. NO-PITT OR NO-USC. ANY  
STONE WORK. INFO. CALL 504-646-1700  CALL MARK 1400  CALL CRAIG EGAN 3383. THANX. SECTION. TIM SOSNOWSKI X­ 
REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE DEPT. P5868.  4043 Big bucks for 2 and/or 4 USC GA's. 
CALL X2670 OR 277-9281 IF FOUND.  Call Tom at 1771.  I NEED 2 MICHIGAN STATE GA'S. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$BIG MONEY OR TRADE FOR 
NEED 4 MICH. ST. GA OR  DESPERATELY NEEDED­PITT TICKETS. CALL LANCE 
Help! I need a "Notre Dame Dry"  STUDENT BADLY . WILLIN G TO Culturally deprived relatives  MICHIGAN STATE TIX!!!! 1382. 
Lost Gold HS class ring w/tiger on t-shirt. Please call Alice x4885 face  PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL ER ICH AT coming to see big -time football. NEED 3 STUDENT TIX AND 4  
&  Xt622.----------------------------------­ -­Need two stud. tix . for Pitt game so GA'S.HELPI NEED 2 MSU GA'S AND 3  
TRADE 2 MICHIGAN STAT E they can experien ce true culture. BIG MONEY BIG MONEY!!!!USC GA'S! LARGE EXPENSE 
State Championship ring  TICKETS FOR 2 USC TICK ETS Call David E. X4364  CALL JONPAUL AT X1603ACCOUNT. CALL K. 2597. 
Both from Rock Springs High School Large reward offered  CALL X2766  NEED 2 SMU TIX $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ -GA OR STU. HELPI I NEED TICKETS ICE!!! 
x1861 Lost-DESPERATELY SEEKING-a ride  WILL TRADE 2 MICH.ST./NFOOTBALL TIX AND/OR 1 ROOM FOR NO/USC WEEK D NAME YOUR PRHOTEL CALL MATT #34END  t2SMU 89 2USC NEED 3 GA'S (PREFERABLYAND A TICKET TO ANY HOME  
22k gold chain w/pendant on 9/5  FOR 2 NO/USC. FOOTBALL  TIX. MICHIGAN STAT E GA TIC TOGETHER) FOR MICHIGANGAME FOR MY SISTER AT WEST 
to the U of M game this weekend. on campus. Will happily pay for all gas and tolls. Call Shyla Paul or lv. Message Judy, 284-4058.  CAL (407) 727-8354  NEEDED FOR DABIG $$$. CALL 1 D. WILL PAY STATE --> CALL MIKE XI 151VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY WHO 224. WANTS TO SEE A REAL  
283-3514  Travel Tour Operator needs tickets for all N.D. games-h ome NEEDED: Stu. NA$$$.Contact Matt  FOOTBALL GAME. CALL GINA VY. Have PITT or AT 2690 Need 3 GA's & 1 stud 4 USCX2647 Sleds  
LOST:  and away, especially MSU,  USC  game. Will pay finder's fee. Call  
BLUE 10 CASE containing NO Singer, male or female for  and Miami. Premium price Immediate case available. Will  paid. need 8 Mich St G I NEED GA'S FOR ALL HOME Dave 277-3687a's. Rick #1 795 GAMES AND MIAMI. WILL PAY 
temporary id card, Validine, Detex. a primarily accoustic band Lost on Mon. 911 1 between 12:15 Chuck x 3302  trade for all major sporting e vents NEED STUDENT  BIG. X2335 NEED 1 GA FOR MICH. STTICKETS FOR 
and 1:15 in 123 Nieuwland or  including Final 4, Indy 500 a nd PITT & NAVY GA PLEASE II! I!! MY LITTLE SIS ISMES--I WILL 
between Nieuwland and NOH. ------------------------------------­ bowl game, etc. Will also buy  TRADE FOR ANY  I ABSOLUTELY MUST HAVE 2 COMING OUT + PARENTS WILL OTHER HOME 
If found, please call Kathy at  season tickets. Please call  Dave at GAMES--LOU: 233-4308,  GA'S FOR SMU!! KILL ME IF SHE DOES'NT GO.  
x3948. FOR RENT  1-800-828-8955 today.  AFTER 5:00PM  GRANDPARENTS; PLEASE CALL WILL PAY BIG BUCKS OR TRADE  
WANTED: 4 NO/USC tickets . Pat  STEVE X2400 TIX! CALL MATT #3489  
6 BEDROOM HSE 8 BLKS FROM  Burns (317)848-1 500 or (3  t 7) IN DESPERATE MICH ST GA'S C NEED OF 2 HELP, THE WHOLE FAMILY IS NEED UP TO 6 USC TICKETS.ALL CHERIE 
NO. ROOMS FOR RENT OR TAKE ENTIRE HSE. 288-3613.WANTED BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY.  758-4056 (nights). HELP FULFILL MY  X4969 NEED 5 MICH ST COMING FOR USC, SO WE NEED MONEY IS NO PROBLEM. CALL LOTS OF TICKETS. WILLING TO JIM AT X1236. PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL JOHN OR . TIX  
Help! I need a "Notre Dame Dry" !­219-291-7153. shirt. Please call Alice x4885  GRANDPARENT'S LIFELODREAM. SELL ME 2 MICHI NG GAN CALL DAVE 283­ ERIK AT 1622 1417 Need up to 4 Mich State. Good  
STATE GAS. CALL PETE 22348 AFTER 6 PM .  88­HAVE 4 PITT, 4  I NEED MICH. ST TICKETS. YOU $$$offered. Kevin 1663.SMU GA'S NEED SOME CASH. CALL KEN AT 
ATTENTION: EXCELLENT HAVE YOUR PARENTS STAY AT INCOME FOR HOME ASSEMBLY THE "IRISH B&B" FOR  TOGETHER, WIUSC, MSU, OR N LL TRADE FOR 3277. Help educate my culturallyAVY GA'S-CALL  
WORK. INFO. CALL 504-646-1700 FOOTBALL WEEKEND&-RING  $$$$USC TICKETS NEEDE D$$$ PAT-287 9341 - repressed relatives from Wyoming239 7505  
DEPT. P5868. 272-7738  GA'S OR STUDENT  I NEED TWO TICKETS FOR THE by selling me 2 GA's to Mich ST.  
IF YOU CAN HELP, PLEASE CALL CAROL AT 283-4220.  MICH. ST. GAME. PLEASE CALL Cal xt859 LAWLOR AT 3287 
SHENANIGANS is looking for spirited bass, piano, sax, and  I NEED 3 MIC Need 2 Tix for Mich ST. Have PITTH. ST. GA'S 
APARTMENT AVAILABLE horn players. Interested? call IMMEDIATELY! $180 I MO  CALL BILL X4274  I NEED USE TIX PLEASE! MY & big$$.  
Walter@ 271-0758. FULLY FURNISHED. ROOM  ""DON'T GO TO MICHIGSELL ME YOUR TICKET F AN"••• OR $45  LITTLE BROTHERS ALREADY Call Jim x1653 BOUGHT THEIR PLANE TIX. IF  
FOR 4. CALL NOW· 288-7183! Sunchase Tours is currently ------------------------------------­ -MARK 271-5691  WANTED: 2 MIC YOU HAVE STUDENT OR GA HIGAN STATE TICKETS CALL SEAN AT 2011 NEED 2 USC GA'S!I!! o TRADE 2  
recruiting Campus  Help, the whole family is co ming GA's. Am willing tMICHIGAN STAT PARENTS ARE COMING OUTE student tickets  
Representatives to promote our  for USC, so we need lots of  tickets.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ FROM CA -PLEASE HELP MEMichelle 2677.  
Collegiate Winter Ski Trips & FOR SALE  Willing to pay big bucks. Cal l John plus CASH. Call  NEED USC GA TIX OUT I  
Spring Break Ski & Beach Trips. Earn top commissions and free COLOR TV RENTALS  or Erich at xt622.  HELP! I NEED 2  CALL CHERI 2605 KRISTEN X2702 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ MICH ST TIX.  
trips! Call1-800-321-59tt for 13-INCH, $50/SEM, $80/YR; additional information. Campus 19-INCH, $70/SEM, $120/YR;  NEED CASH ??? Sell me 2 GA's for MICHIGA N ST. PLEASE CALL K RIS X2674 HELPI NEED 2 MICH ST. TIX! HELP! Need 2 Mich St. tixl  
organizations welcome! 25-INCH, $90/SEM, $160/YR  Call Laura x2851  $X1308 . $ xt308  
CALL ANYTIME FOR FREE V-Tapes all1988-89 N.D. football DELIVERY  IF YOU HAVE MICH. ST. TIX TO I fyou have Mich ST. Tix to sell  
games. Please call Paul Roy 232­ Need 1 tix for Michigan StatStudent or G.A.  e PLEASE! I NEED  SELL CALL 1308 calx13085 MICH ST TIX!  
7602 COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272­5959  $Cash$ or trade( USC or PI TT) CALL MARIA X28 70 NEED 2 GA'S AND 2 STUDENT Need 1 Mich St stud and 1 USC tik  
WANTED: Need young man to  Call Mike 2031  TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN STATE HAVE t SMU stud & $$  
work flexible hours · 8 or more per week in retail store. Position is Round-trip ticket anywhere in the  NEED GA's: 2 for Pitt and3forUSC  I NEED 8 MSU G GAME WILL PAY$$$$ CALL BILL Chris x1861 271-8483 A'S. CALL BRIAN  
conducive to studying while contiguos U.S. $100. Call: #1693. earning $4.25 per hour. Call272­ call Sue x2485  288-8527 OR KIM 284-4169.  NEED 2 TIX FOR MICH ST. HAVE PITT & BIG $$CALL JIM X1653 see TICKETS I page 14 

~9:'!:............................. . 

---~ -~~------~~--~--.-------..... ..... 
Thursday, September 14, 1989 The Observer page 11 
Bo 
continued from page 16 
loves to win, probably more than anybody else in the coun­try. He just wants to do it the right way. He swears Michigan has never cheated, and one would be hard-pressed to find someone to argue with that. 
Born on April 1, 1929. Glenn Edward Schembechler spent his youth in Barberton, Ohio, a small town with a Mayberry­like atmosphere. His father was a fireman and Bo spent his childhood chasing his dad on every assignment. 
It was in Barberton that Glenn became Bo, and it wasn't football prowess or knowledge which initiated that change. Instead of saying "brother," his younger sister could say only "Bobo." That was shortened to Bo and it replaced Glenn, just like Bear replaced Paul. Pop re­placed Glen and Digger re­placed Richard. 
Bo was an all-state offensive lineman at Barberton High School where he dreamed of playing collegiate football for Notre Dame. That didn't work out and Schembechler attended Miami of Ohio on a scholarshin. 
Before Bo's junior year, Sid Gillman left for Cincinnati and the Redskins brought in a young coach named Woody Hayes, a man Schembechler would come to cherish and ex­emplify in many ways. But the first impression was not com­plimentary. 
Says Schembechler in "Bo," his new autobiography, ".. .back then. I despised him. Most of us did. He had just been announced as our new football coach-much to our surprise-and he was tough 

WANTED: USC vs. NO TICKETS 24hr. answering service (213) 487-4161 Home (213)422-2812 



and nasty. He looked like a naval officer. with perfect pos­ture and broad shoulders." 
That nasty man would be­come one of Bo's great~st friends, greatest teacher and his greatest inspiration. After Bo's senior season, Hayes took the head spot at Ohio State and he took Bo with him as a grad­uate assistant. 
Bo stayed there one year, served a stint in the U.S. Army and then coached the line at Presbyterian College in 1954. He held the same position at Bowling Green in 1955 before joining Ara Parseghian's staff at Northwestern in 1958. 
Bo stayed with Ara just one year, a season where the Wildcats did not win a game, before joining Hayes as a full­time assistant the following 
Career Opportunities at Morgan 
for Notre Dame stud~nts interested in 
Auditing 

Financial Management 
~ 

Bank Accounting 
Tax Strategies 

Please plan to attend our information presentation on Monday, September 25 6:00-8:00 pm Morris Inn Notre Dame Room 
Confirm the time and location with your placement office 
JPMorgan 
year. He stayed with Hayes for five years, a time in which he learned more about football than he could ever imagine. 
It was probably also from Hayes that Bo gained his le­gendary temper. a temper that demonstrated the intensity with which Bo coached and loved the game. He and Hayes wanted the same thing-perfection whether it be from the star quarterback in the Rose Bowl or the third­string cornerback on a Wednesday afternoon. 
Bo left Ohio State for Miami in 1963, the same place Hayes used as a stepping stone to the Big Ten. Bo coached the Redskins for six years and compiled a 40-17-3 ledger. Then came the call from the big time. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Athletic Director Richard Rosenthal will speak at the St. Edward's Hall Forum at 7 p.m. tonight. He will respond to the question, "Has Notre Dame reached the summit of collegiate athletics?" 
Interhall football equipment will be issued at 6 p.m. tonight. Report to gym 1. 
Rowing Club will have practice for novice members each day this week at 4:30 p.m. Meet at the main circle. 
SMC flag football needs officials for games to be played on Sunday afternoons. Officials receive $5 per game. Call 284-5548 for more information. 
Shorin-Ryu karate classes will be held from 4:30 to 6 
p.m. Friday in room 219 of Rockne Memorial. All beginners are welcome. Call x4436 or 239-6100 for more information. 
SMC women's golf club will meet at 6 p.m. tonight in Angela Athletic facility. 
SMC women's four-on-four volleyball tourney will be held Saturday, Sept. 16. The deadline to enter is 5 p.m. today in Angela Athletic Facility. 
Irish Outdoors will hold an organizational meeting at 
7:30 p.m. tonight in the Notre Dame Room of Lafortune. Students with an interest in backpacking, canoeing, skiing and mountaineering should attend. Call 271-9901 for more information. 
Non Varsity athletics is looking for officials for soccer and women's football. Call 239-6100 for more information or fill out an application at the NVA office. 
WVFI-AM 640 will air "Sportstalk" at 8 p.m. tonight. Join hosts Jamey Rappis, Vic Lombardi and Kevin McCormick with guests Tony Rice and Dean Brown. The station's sports staff also will hold a general meeting tonighat at 7:30 in the WVFI office. 
Windsurfing Club will meet at 8:30 p.m. tonight in Planner Hall Pit. Anyone may attend. Call x1528 for more information. 
Ice skaters interested in figure skating weekday mornings at the Joyce ACC should contact Katy Boyd at x4514. The sessions will begin Monday, Sept. 18. 



"THE ITAUAN RISTORANTE" 
Opea FOI' Dinner C8nv Outs Avalable. Serving your favorite wile and coc:ktai Y........ -••• I rte Pllrtal 
Pasta Dishes • Chicken Cacciatore 
• Veal •Mankottl• Lasagna 
•Fettuccine Alfredo • Fish • Shrimp •Pizza • 
........... & PriY•I• hrtiM up to 100 South of N.D. Golden Dome 
i 

~ 
~,c 
~~ 

1412 South Bend Ave. (219)232-4244 Tuesday-Saturday 4-11 pm 

NOW OPEN SUNDAYS 4-9pm 
Bielecki an unlikely star for Cubs 
30-year old emerges as one of season's big surprises 
Associated Press walked three and struck out It was Bielecki's fourth com­seven. plete game and third shutout of 
CIIICAGO -The Chicago lie ended the game by striking the season. He had not had a Cubs have been full of surprises out Andres Galarraga with a complete game since his this crazy season. But, other runner on first. shutout against Los Angeles. than themselves, the biggest ''I've never pitched a better But Zimmer said he was not surprise of all could be pitcher game," said Bielecki, whose surprised. Mike Bielecki. previous best effort was a 
Before this 'season, the 30-three-hit, 4-0 victory against "He was in a rut for a while year-old right-hander had only Los Angeles July 19. like the rest of our staff, but 12 major league victories in "I had some luck, but you his last outing was good," parts of four seasons with have to have luck to pitch a Zimmer said. "This one was Pittsburgh and another with shutout," Bielecki said. "There exceptional." the Cubs. But this year, Bielecki were some hard hit balls in the The last Cub to pitch a two­has blossomed into a bonafide early innings, but I had a great hitter was Jamie Moyer, star. defense behind me." against Montreal Aug. 16, 
Bielecki pitched the finest Despite his effort, Bielecki 1986. game of his career Tuesday was afraid he might not get to night, two-hitting the Montreal finish the game after walking "Mike Bielecki pitched a Expos in a 2-0 victory that Marquis Grissom with two out heckuva game, the best I've boosted the surprising, yes in the ninth. ever seen him pitch," Montreal surprising, Cubs' lead to 4 1/2 "I didn't want the walk to manager Buck Rodgers said. games in the National League upset me," Bielecki said. "I ''He never gave us a shot." East. gathered myself because I knew 
Gal~rraga would be my last hit­Bielecki came to the Cubs in a 
In winning the eighth of his ter. trade with Pittsburgh during last nine decisions. Bielecki im­spring training of 1988. proved his record to 16-6. "Not so," Manager Don 
Bielecki did not allow a hit Zimmer said with a wink. "The He started the 1988 season after the second inning, did not th.ou~~t never crossed my with the Cubs, but soon was allow a runner to reach second, mmd. sent to Iowa. 
Vincent elected as commissioner 
Associated Press a traditionalist who will try to hour as commissioner. keep baseball from changing. "It's wonderful for you to 
MILWAUKEE-Fay Vincent "I don't like the designated call," Vincent said, surrounded was elected to a 4 1/2-year hitter. I don't like aluminum by reporters. "It's a very spe­term as baseball commissioner bats," Vincent said. "I do like cial moment for me." on Wednesday and immediately grass. I do like baseball as you Giamatti, who became com­
pledged to continue the course and I knew it growing up." missioner just last April, set by A. Bartlett Giamatti. Vincent spoke reverentially of brought Vincent to baseball as Vincent, 51, had been deputy Giamatti during a news confer­the first deputy commissioner 
commissioner under Giamatti, ence after his election. and they worked as a team on who died of a heart attack on "I think about Bart a lot," he virtually all issues. Vincent said 
Sept. 1. Vincent said that he said. bowing his head with a he, too, likes consensus man­knew of no differences between sad look in his eyes. agement.his agenda and Giamatti's. Vincent, a former securities 
"I take this job. I do not re­lawyer who ran Columbia "There's very likely to be a place Bart," Vincent said. "I Pictures Industries Inc. for deputy commissioner," he said, know that this is not the way to nearly 10 years, received a con­projecting what his administra­get this job." gratulatory telephone call from tion would be like. "I don't have 
lie said he considers himself President Bush within his first any candidates in mind." 

AP Photo 
Chicago Cubs catcher Rick Wrona congratulates pitcher Mike Bielecki after Tuesday's 2-0 win over Montreal. As the amazing Cubs strengthen their lead in the National League East, Bielecki finds himself a major force in the starting rotation. 
Shutout 
continued from page 16 

and serious threats from Suba, Sullivan and sophomore forward Susie Zilvitis, the Irish were incapable of scoring. 
Minnesota's Lisa Schingen fi­nally took it upon herself to end the agony at 41:35 of the sec­ond half with a long hard shot that beat Irish keeper Michelle Lodyga in the high left corner. 
Despite the goal, Lodyga played a brilliantly aggressive game and was an important factor in the stable Notre Dame defense. 
"We marked really well on defense," said Sullivan. "And our restarts were great too. We just have to keep our heads down, and keep the ball down and not bang it over the net." 
The Irish will soon have the opportunity to apply the lessons they learned last night when they return to Krause Stadium Friday and take on IU­South Bend. 
The Notre Dame Club of Ann Arbor
CJ's Pub 
Invites you to the 
417 N. Michigan St. HOME of the SUPERPUBS 
Pep Rally and Pre-Gatne Part
Mon. Night Special (6p.m.-1 Op.m.) $1.00 off any Burger 
Notre Dame/Michigan Game!!!
(with this ad) 
**LIVE Entertainment every Wed-Fri-Sat** 
Friday, Sept. 15,8-11:59 pm
RICKY JOE SERVING Lunch Daily 11 a.m. 
The Ann Arbor Inn Corner of 4th and Huron Downtown Ann Arbor 
[Q)~~~lF~ 
Entertainment • Munchies • Refreshments • Raffle Prizes Appearances by the Notre Dame Pep Band and Cheerleaders!
[M]~~lF~~@ 
50 dime donation benefits the ND scholarship fund. Everyone is welcome (even Michigan fans for 100 nickels)! 
THURSDAY,SEPTEMBER14 FREE Saturday, Sept. 16 
FREE

6-8 P.M. 
12 noon until game, and ONE hour afterwards. 
302 La Fortune 
Parking Lot of Pioneer High School 
Across from Michigan Stadium Entrance
ALL STUDENTS WELCOME 
Sponsored by the ND Alumni Clubs ofMichigan 
Gooden effective in relief as Mets top Phils 
Associated Press 
PIIILADELPHIA -Dwight Gooden made his first appear­ance since July 1 and pitched three scoreless innings as the New York Mets beat the Philadelphia Phillies 10-4 Wednesday night. 
The third-place Mets, how­ever. remained 5 1/2 games be­hind Chicago in the National League East as the Cubs beat Montreal. New York has 17 games left. 
Gooden. who was placed on the disabled list July 3 with a muscle tear under his right armpit, allowed two hits, 
struck  out  four  and  walked  
one.  
The  relief  appearance  

snapped a streak of 17 5 con­secutive starts for Gooden. 
Cubs 3, Expos 1 
Scott Sanderson, making his first start since Aug. 18, al­lowPd no runs in 5 1-3 innings, and Chicago completed a three­game sweep against Montreal. 
It was the first-place Cubs' fifth straight victory and dropped the fourth-place Expos seven games out in the NL East. 
Sanderson allowed six hits, to improve to 11-8. Les Lancaster finished for his sev­enth save, allowing three hits in 3 2-3 innings. 
The Expos snapped a string of 19 consecutive scoreless in­nings in the eighth inning when Dave Martinez singled, moved to second on a grounder and scored on Tom Foley's double. 
A's 7, Brewers 6 

Dave Henderson led off the bottom of the ninth inning with a homer after Greg Vaughn's two-run homer in the top of the inning spoiled Dave Stewart's bid for his 20th win. 
Henderson hit a 1-0 pitch off Chuck Crim, 9-6, just over the center-field fence for his 12th homer of the season, snapping the Brewers' six-game winning streak. 
Stewart appeared certain to reach the 20-victory plateau for the third straight season when he turned over a 6-4 lead to Eckersley in the eighth inning. 
Twins 3, Blue Jays 2 
Hot-hitting Kent Hrbek drove in two runs and rookie Kevin Tapani pitched 7 2-3 strong in­nings Wednesday night as the Minnesota Twins beat the 
Royals 3, Rangers 2 
Bret Saberhagen got his 19th victory when Frank White hit his first home run at Royals Stadium in more than a year Wednesday night as Kansas City kept pace in the American League West. 
The Royals remained three games behind first-place Oakland, which beat Milwaukee 7-6 earlier in the day. 
Mariners 7, Bosox 4 
Jay Buhner and Alvin D.aYis hit home runs and the Seattle Mariners completed their first­
ever  sweep  against  Boston,  
sending the Red Sox  to  their  
eighth straight loss.  

Seattle won three consecutive games against the Red Sox. Boston's slide is its worst since an eight-game losing streak in 1984. 
Jerry Reed, 6-6, pitched 1 1-3 innings for the victory. Mike Schooler got two outs for his 29th save. 
Mike Boddicker, 12-11, gave up six runs on nine hits in 5 1-3 innings. 
Harold Reynolds' leadoff double keyed a four-run first 
Tigers 3, Indians 1 
Jack Morris pitched a five­hitter and won his third straight start as Detroit recorded its ninth victory in 11 games. 
Morris, 6-11, struck out six and walked two in his eighth complete game. Morris is 3-1 against the Indians this season and 25-8 versus them in his ca­reer. 
Cleveland lost for the 13th time in 18 games. The Indians are 1-1 under interim manager John Hart. 
Tom Candiotti, 12-9, took the loss. He allowed three runs on nine hits in 6 2-3 innings. 
Gary Pettis led off the first with a single and stole second, and scored when catcher Joel 
Chisox 3, Orioles 0 
On his 25th birthday, rookie 
Greg Hibbard got 25 outs. Not 
quite the complete game he 
wanted, but close enough. 
Hibbard pitched four-hit ball for 8 1-3 innings and the Chicago White Sox took advan­tage of a sloppy field and Baltimore's shoddy fielding Wednesday night to beat the Orioles 3-0 in a rain-delayed 
If you've ever dreamed of being behind the controls If you're cut out for it, we'll give you free civilian of an airplane, this is your chance to find out what flight training, maybe even $100 a month cash while it's really like. you're in school. And someday you could be flying 
AMarine Corps pilot is coming to campus who a Harrier, Cobra or F/A-18. 
can take you up for trial flights. 
We're looking for a few college students who have the brains and skill--as well as the desire--to become Marine pilots. 
Get a taste of what life is like at the top. The flight's on us.
Getataste 
oflife 
attbetop. 
To schedule an appointment for September 19, 20, or 21, or for additional information, CALL Capt. Mitter or Staff Srgt. Horton. at 1-800-728-9228 
Soccer 
continued from page 16 
had made a great move to draw the keeper out directly to the right of the goal. Kern's cross deflected off teammate Tom Crowe right to Stebbins, who punched the ball home from the left-hand side. 
W1th the 3-0 lead, the Irish let down a little bit, and Detroit managed to take advantage of an Irish defensive lapse. The 
Titans'  Pete  Tangalos  
hammered  home  a  goal from  
directly  in  front  of the  net.  

Grace said that his team's second half letdown was the by-product of having a young team. 
"These are things that only Mother Nature and Father Time and experience can take care of," said Grace. "We have to learn to keep it on for 90 minutes." 
The game became a bit rough in the second half, and Grace said he was afraid that one of his players might be injured. But he said he was "proud that our kids didn't let down and retaliate." 
Mitch Kern led an Irish midfield which kept pressure on Detroit for most of the game. Kern assisted on Stebbins' goal, and also hopped up on the right wing to divert the attention of the defense on Pendergast's goal. 
"Mitch played his best game of the season tonight," said Grace, "This should help him gain some momentum." 
Notebook 
continued from page 16 
"Battle for Number One" and the much-ballyhooed Kickoff Classic. 
"Here at Notre Dame, you expect to play these types or games," said linebacker and tri-captain Ned Bolcar. "You always talk about hype, the hype for this game is nothing compared to the hype for the Kickoff Classic. That was two to three days at New York-the media capital of the world. It was like a bowl." 
Earn $2Q0-300 weekly. Travel tour operator needs four students immediately. 1-800-828-8955 

I ABSOLUTELY MUST HAVE 2 
$$ FRENZIED ALUMS NEED USC HAPPY BIRTHDAY Marginally talented guitanst seeks BEAUTIFUL BLACK SMU GA'S!! (GRANDPARENTS TIX. WILL PAY BIG$$. CALL KATIE KAVANAUGH!! bass and drums for band. 
BURMESE/SIAMESE CAT NEEDS 
COMING I) PLEASE CALL STEVE 
JOHN X2299. Influences --Tom Wa1ts, Graham NEW HOME. CALL PAT 239-7505 x2400. 
Tickets 
Parker, Lloyd Cole, Dnv1n' and 
continued from page 1 0 
I Need MICH ST. t1ckets. You need some cold cash. Let's talk. Please call Ken at x3277. 
I need two tickets for the MICH. ST. game Please call Lawlor at x3278 
IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 
MICH ST GA'S CALL CHERIE 
~-~~'-----------------------------­
NEED 2 G.A. S FOR 
MICHIGAN STATE 
WILL PAY $$$ 
CALL FRANK 
234.9956 

Need 6 USC GA tlx Please call Steve· 1605 
NEED 2 GA AND I STUD. TICKET FOR MICHIGAN STATE. CALL CHRIS Xt067. 
NEED PID. AND NAVY STUD. TIX-WILL TRADE FOR ANY OTHER HOME GAME-CALL 233-4308 AFTER 5.00 PM-LOU 
I NEED A PAIR OF MICHIGAN TIX MIKE #4047 
NEEDEDII! 2 MICH ST GA'S AND 4USCGA'S PLEASE CALL BRYAN AT 2285 
GA TICKETS EXCHANGE Need 2 GA and I stud. t1cket for M1ch1gan State. Call Chns xt067 
We need M1ch1gan State Tickets: 2 GA and 2 student Call R1chard or Andrea at 271-0519 
$$ Frenz1ed Alums need USC tix Will pay b1g$$ Call John x2299 
Need 2 GA's for MICH ST & up to 4 PITI W1ll Pay Call Beth 3706 
Need 2 GAs for Mich St B1g $ or trade Pitt-Call Lance-1382 
Need 2 PITI GA'S Call Kathy x2761 
Need GAs or STU T1x to ANY HOME GAME esp USC 
Have GAs & STU T1x SMU 
Will trade/bargam/Buy for MORE $ than anyone else 
CALL ROB #1305 
need USC and M1am1 t1x 
Chuck x 3302 
PITI or USC GAs needed desparately Please call M1ke at #2288 
NEED SEVERAL PITI TIX PLEASE!! #2819 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME $$$$$$ NO PROBLEMI CALL DANEKA 272-4804 
NEED 2 MSU GA'S AND 4 
STUDENT TIX BADLY. WILL PAY 
BIG$$$. CALL MITCH AT 2061. 
I want to buy your PURDUE tickets caiiWIII 4048 
My Father will DISOWN ME 
unless I get two MICHIGAN TIXII!! 
I am ordered to pay RIDICULOUS 
SUM OF MONEYI!! 
call John at x350 I 
PERSONALS 
ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE· POOR GLARES, 1175 N COUNTY RD. 300 W, KOKOMO, IN 46901. 
AttentiOn ND Students I $4 50 Ha1rcuts 
VITO'S BARBERSHOP M-F 8-5 Sat. 8-4 Closed Wed. 
If you're gay on th1s campus,chances are you feel alone.We're here for you Write Gays and Lesbians at ND/SMC,Boxt94 Notre Dame46556.And JOin us Sun 17th 6-8,300Health Center for:Commg Out:The Rap Sess1on. 
Dance -type mus1c band seeks BASS and LEAD GUITARISTS. Call x3745 or x3769 after m1dmghtl ATIENTION TRANSFER STAFF! ANY MEMBER WHO HAS NOT SUBMITIED THEIR T-SHIRE MONEY, PLEASE CONTACT DANEKA 272-4804. 
• • • THEY'RE HERE • • • 
GYROS AT BRIDGET'S THE GREEK SENSATION SERVED FRESH DAILY. 
THIS FRIDAY AT 12:15 P.M. EVERY FRIDAY AT 12:15 P.M ANTI-APARTHEID NETWORK VIGIL ADMIN BUILDING 
MONDAY'S GIRL, YOU MOVED MY HEART AT S.D. HALL LUNCH II LOVE YOUR DARK CASCADING HAIR, VIOLET BLOUSE & CUTE GUESS JEANS. I LOOKED AWAY AND YOU WERE GONE. HOPING FOR A SUNSET STROLL MR SINCERE 
JUNIORS • JUNIORS • JUNIORS • JUNIORS JPW' JPW' JPW • JPW' JPW' APPLICATIONS ARE NOW AVAILABLE FOR THE EXECUTIVE COMMITIEE FOR JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND THEY ARE AVAILABLE IN THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE, 3RD FLOOR LAFORTUNE. THE DEADLINE TO APPLY IS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18TH. ANY QUESTIONS? CALL MARYANN 2855 
M1ch1gan G.A.'s for Sale II Call Matt x3233 Crym', Tom Verlaine Applicants need not be experienced. Call R1ck at 1307 for mformat1on. 
Now hinng part t1me wallress for lunch and dinner hours. Apply 2-Spm at Onental Express 6329 UmverSily Commons ust west ol Un1v Park Mall on State Road 23, next to Kroger 272-6702 
CLUB 23 Stop by for Am1able atmosphere, da1ly & weekly specials, pool table, English darts, and great company. 234-3541 
Desperately in need of Mlch1gan St. GA and Student Tickets! Please call Laura 284-5204 
Need 2 USC GA's Please call Vm 
x2015 

Need four M1ch1gan State GA's and 2 P1tt stud. Tkts. Debb1e x2978 
Need two GA's for M1ch1gan Game Call Dave at x1984 
I need USC-SMU-PITI-MICH T1x Call Todd at x4358 or 4618 
Need 4 GA's: 2 for P1tt and 3 for 
USC Call Sue x2485 
Need 2 P1tt or 2 SMU t1x Pay$$$ Call Cheryl x2629 
Need 2 P1tt Ga's Please call Kathy x2761 HOW-DY-DO& 
HOW-DY -DON'T! 
HAPPY B-DAY, BETSY 0.! 

HOPE IT'S THE GREATEST' 
LUV YA, 
ANG 
BALLROOM DANCE 
BALLROOM DANCE 
TODAY? PM 
ROCKNE MEMORIAL GYM 

DON'T MISS OUT ON ALL THE 
FUN 
BALLROOM DANCE 
DO YOU HAVE A PILOT'S 

CERTIFICATE OR WISH TO 
BECOME A STUDENT OR 

PRIVATE PILOT? CALL MIKE 
2215. 
ENGINEERS 

INFORMATIONAL IEEE MEETING TONIGHT 7:30 IN 356 FITZPATRICK 
MIKE DEBOT'S BIRTHDAY IS SEPT. 17 HE'S NOW IN GRAD SCHOOL AT INDIANA U., BUT, HE'D SURE LIKE TO HEAR FROM ALL HIS N D & ST MARY'S FRIENDS AT 812-857-7603 OR EIGENMANN HALL, ROOM 702, INDIANA U., BLOOMINGTON, IN 47405. 
DAVE AND TROY THURSDAY NIGHT CLUB 23 to·OO STARTING TIME TWO GUYS, TWO GUITARS, A HARMONICA, AND A WHOLE LOT OF TUNES ........ 
2 MICHIGAN STATE FOR 2 USC. 
CALL 277-0526 EVENINGS. 
FOR SALE· STUD TIX FOR ALL HOME GAMES. CALL TONY 289­8020. HURRY! LEAVE MESSAGE. 
$$$ NEED 2 Pm OR 2 SMU TIX 'PAY BIG$$$ CALL CHERYL X2629 

Need GA's for ALL home games and M1am1 W1ll pay b1g $. x2335 
I REALLY NEED 2 MICHIGAN 
STATE GA'S. PLEASE CALL 
BETH-X4852 
I REALLY NEED 4 MSU TICKETS 
CALL BEN AT 1126. 
NEED 2 TIX TO ND-MICH ST. $$ CALL #1899 
HELP I Stephen Needs 2 Ml STATE TIX call #3936 or #3525 
Help! I Need Tickets! I need 12 
SMU G.A.'s , and a student t1cket 
to any home game for my s1ster at West V1rgm1a Umvers1ty who wants to see a real football game. Call Gina at X2690. 
~need someone with the ronfJdmce riaSU1_'groll,thededication of­amarathoner andthe rourage rianexplorer. 
Wt need a Puc~ Cor'p' volunteer Call us acl-100-424-8580, Exl 9l 


The JEC/SWE proudly presents the 1989... 
Industry Day 
Register for the Industry Day Banquet 
September 20th, 1989 
Forms will be sent in the mail for this dinner with company representatives. ( Extra forms can be picked up in the Engineering Student Center) 
Registration is due by Sept. 141 Cancellation deadline is Sept. 15! 
$5.00 banquet deposit ( Returned after banquet) Return forms to ... Industry Day Box, in the Engineering Student Center 
Celebrate With Us Before & After the Game 
Large Screen T.V. 
9 monitors 
D.J. -Dancing Nightly 
Pizza -Subs -Salads 
M  Stadium D  M a  
a  I  
y  

"~----~~~~~~m~--~ 
a 
r d C Dooley'• 
Central Campus 
-

CAMPUS EVENTS 
4 p.m. Film and lecture. Vivienne Verdon-Roe's Academy-Award winning film "Women -For America, For the World." Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
4:15p.m. Hesburgh Library Lounge. Seminar. PrOfessor Eugene Schmidtlein of Stephens College. "The Truman Administration and the Vatican." Sponsored by Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism. 
7:00 p.m. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Lecture. Amoco Corporation, Allstate Insurance, Vista Chemical Company. "Science Placement Night." Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 

Irish Fried Flounder Pepper Steak Fried Bologna Sandwich 
SObering Advice;: cansavealife~~~ 
Think Before You Drink -~~ Before You Drive :~---· 
COMICS 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
B'{ G0\...1..'( I I AM Go\~G it) stt:r>.l to\'{ TRUCK B~CK ~M \-I\OE! \IS 11\\~t. AI-ID ~£ "PS NC) R.IIO"T T<l 1\f.,'J\: \T! 
I 

lfV:VL_

.. 
~, -rr ­
~ 
-

WILBUR AND WENDEL 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 Carson or Letterman 5 Of serious import 10 Tub 14 Countertenor 15 Born-­(schlemiel) 16 Snake-dancing Indian 17 Service-club member 18 Dress cut 19 Blame 
20 Describing characters like b, q and r 
22 Sassy 
23 Dilapidated building 24 Give forth 26 Japanese woman diver 29 Rollaway, e.g. 30 Like some peanuts 
34 Lessee 36 Mufti or uniform 37 Operatic 
element 38 With "The," G. Peck movie 39 Soldier's 
quarters 42 Countenance 44 Outstanding 46 Bolt's partner 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
c p 
AS 

co 
M AS 
SM 
U T 

A p
HA R T 
ORT 
CA 
R E 
EWER 

BIOTA 
RAGE 

F L A I L7 Ni(i.tp 
R E M E D 

PORA LEE 
TUSSLE CLEANERS 
A K A.'A T 0 Tftli 
D E I p 0 T

P A Ll-0 0 ~~~~~ 
E S TIE R T U N I 
C C I E

DESTINED~OSH~R 
T 

R E T S 
T 
OP 
y
R E 
E S 
sc 

ArcA N 
T H 
lNG 
p
PO 
OR 
"f 
DEN
0 
E 
AC ME 

LO 
R R E 
R 
E 
c u 
TO 
AD 
E E

E T 
T E S 
K S 

47 The "Lost Weekend" problem 
48 Home team or VISitors 49 Where to find 
Orem 51 Uses a sieve 54 Some condos 59 Game divided 
into chukkers 60 Tropical treat 61 One of almost 
12,000 in NYC. 62 Vase-shaped 
pitcher 63 Late bloomer 64 Creche part 65 Candlellke 66 Overseas travel 
preparations 67 Successful efforts 
DOWN 
1 "Clue" room 2 Medley 3 Pack away 4 Copy-machine 
chemical 5 Continent carver 6 Saracen foe 7 Sale sign 8 Facade of sorts 9 Poet's word 
10 Diamond figure 11 Rocket nose 12 Composer's 
creation 13 Father to the thought 

21 Hayseed 22 Decree 25 Kiwi's relative 26 Aba weare-rs 27 Promotion 
basis, sometimes 28 Old-womanish 31 Used a stopwatch 32 Upstanding 33 Clunker's adornment 

35 Whopper 40 Boola-boola 
boys 41 Small fry 42 Children's card 
game 43 Pentacle 45 Redundant 
telling 46 Sourdough's treasure 50 Enlistment term 
51 Gush 52 U.S. warship in 
1989 news 53 Bend 55 "-the wild 
blue yonder" 56 Hindu garment 57 Scnpt command 58 Brothers and 
sisters, for short 60 "No-" (boxer Duran's cry) 

BILL WATIERSON 
I'LL J\JST St-IEA\<. UP BtH\ND T\-\1'5 PL~'( GROUND SHOULD 1\\£ S'fllNGS 1\E.R£, ~t-10 'fll-\ffi 1-1~'-JE. OOE Of 1\-\0SE MOE.'S NOT LOOKING, l'\.L A\lTOM~T\C \NS\JRANC£ 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON RUN \JP, GAAB Til£ TRUCK Mf>.C\-1\NE.S LIKE ntE~ IW~£ .l-~0 Thl'£ O!=~! r-rr--1 IN fl..IRPoRTS . 
I 
9·/'f 
JAY HOSLER 
"Now this end is called the thagomizer .•• after the late Thag Simmons." 
• 





Sports
Thursday, September 14, 1989 
page 16 
Men's soccer wins, women lose in Krause twinbill 
Irish take 3-0 lead, then outlast Detroit 
By KEN TYSIAC Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's soccer team beat the 
University of Detroit for the second time in one 
week with a 3-1 victory Wednesday night at 
Krause Stadium 

The Midwestern Collegiate Conference 
triumph came much more easily for the Irish 
than last week's 4-3 overtime marathon in 
Detroit. 

"Overall as a team I thought we played much better," said Irish coach Dennis Grace, whose team upped its record to 2-2 (2-0 in the MCC). " I thought our midficlders played better and our backs matched up better." 
Notre Dame started out strong, as Steve LaVigne converted his own rebound for his third goal of the season 26:43 into the game to givP Notre Dame a 1-0 lead. 
Although the Irish dominated the first stanza, LaVigne's goal was all they were able to tally on the scoreboard before halftime. 
The men in blue and gold struck quickly in the second half. Tom Connaghan carried the ball from midfield on a 4-on-2 break and punched the ball outside to Kevin Pendergast inside the penalty area. 
Pendergast wasted no time in sliding the ball along the ground past a sprawling Detroit keeper Don Koontz and into the net just 3:25 into the second half. 
Less than eight minutes later, Danny Stebbins converted a nifty cross from Mitch Kern, who 
see SOCCER I page 13 
'Bo'-The first name says it all 
By GREG GUFFEY Assistant Sports Editor 

This is the first of a two-part story on Michigan football coach /Jo Schembechler. 
Identification with the first 
name is one of the most unique 
characteristics of sports, and 
his name may be the best 
known in his field. 

Thern was Mickey and Willie, 
O.J. and Broadway Joe, Bjorn and Chrissie, Kareem and Wilt. But they don't have anything on Bo Schembechler, the football genius who has guided the Michigan football program for the past 21 years. 
Bo. The name connotes win­ning, tradition, excellence, ev­erything that is right in a col­l11ge football world full of steroids, cheating and playing the spread. lie is the patriarch of collegiate coaches, the dean of a group he fears is taking football in the wrong direction. 
forget Bo Jackson in Kansas City-or whatever city his sport carnival is in this season. Bo Schembechler has forgotten more than Jackson could ever hope to know. Bo knew the in­tricacies of football before Jackson's parents were born. 
Bo's record speaks for itself. lie has a career mark of 224­63-8 in six years at Miami of Ohio and 20 seasons at Michigan. He has won more games than any other active NCAA I-A coach and ranks fifth on the all-time list behind a formidable quartet-Bear Bryant of Alabama, Amos Alonzo Stagg of Chicago and Woody Hayes of Ohio State. 
Bo sports a 135-24-3 mark in the Big Ten, a conference Michigan and Ohio State have dominated over the years. Under Bo, the Wolverines have won or tied for the league title in 12 seasons. He has taken 16 teams to bowl games, including nine trips to the Rose Bowl, and has finished in The Associated Press Top Ten 16 times. 
A legend at Michigan as well as across the country, Bo is unwilling to compromise his old-fashioned ideas. lie is a member of the old school of football, the sehool where re­cruiting was fun instead of broken promises and slick Corvettes, the school that con­centrated on principles instead of points, the school where the alumni were supporters instead of coaches. 
Don't get the wrong idea. Bo 
see BO I page 11 

Minnesota trips NO in low-scoring battle 
By COLLEEN HENNESSEY Sports Writer 
It was only a matter of time. Someone had to score in the women's soccer game Wednesday night between Notre Dame and Minnesota, but no one wanted to take responsibility. 
Despite creating numerous opportunities the Irish came up empty -handed against the Golden Gophers, losing the game 1-0 and dropping their record to 1-3. 
An uneventful first half produeed very little beside missed opportunities. 
"We had no trouble getting it up tlwn~." said Irish captain K. T. Sullivan. "We just couldn't finish." 
That was pretty much the story of the game. Notre Dame applied persistent pressure to thn Minnesota defense, but the Irish wen~ unable to exeeute. 
"We were working on getting to the ball," said junior forward Mimi Suba. "And we did win the ball mueh better tonight." 
There is no question that Notre Damn had the ball last night; thny just eouldn't do anything with it. 
"The field was really slick," said Suba. "We had great crosses and perfeet chances, but we just eouldn't hit the goal." 
Undaunted, the Irish came out determined in the second half. effectively dominating the Golden Gopher defense. But despite good play­making by freshman midfielder Margaret Jarc 
see SHUTOUT I page 12 

Although his teams have never won a national championship, Michigan football coach Bo Schembechler is fifth on the all-time career victory list with a career record of 224-63-8. Schembechler's second-ranked Wolverines open their season at home Saturday against defending national champion and top-ranked Notre Dame. 
• 
Irish feel confident against Michigan's big offensive line 
(leading into Saturday's showdown with second­ranked Michigan, one of Notre Dame's biggest eoneerns has been the size of the Wolverine offensive line. 
Michigan's average weight among starters on the off1msive line is 2Y3 pounds. larger than any Notre Dame offensive lineman and some 30 pounds per man h1mvier than thH Irish defensive line. 
Sophomore tackle Greg Skrepenak is the largest of the large. tipping the scales at 320 pounds. 
"lie's a big person," Irish defensive end Scott Kowalkowski said in perhaps the most obvious understatement of the decade. "I look at it as a challenge. With a person that big, I'll try to use my quickness and speed. 
"I think it all evens out with our quickness, speed and thn scheme we're going to use." 
Michigan's off1msive line was much bigger than Notre Dame's defensive line last year, but the Irish held the Wolverines to 139 rushing yards on 52 carries. 
In the midst of a lackadaisical workout Monday, several seniors conducte~ a brief meeting for the Notre Dame offense. 
"What happened was we were just to the point 
Steve 
A 
•·

Megargee , . ,I 
Football Notebook 
where everybody was going through the motions," said sophomore flanker Raghib "Rocket" Ismail. "I didn't know if everyone was drained from class or what. It got to point where we thought, 'lley. everybody can practice good when they're feeling good, but the sign of great players and a team destined to be great is when they're not feeling good and still come out and have a good practice.' 
"Any time the seniors come out and take the initiative, it always helps." The meeting seemed to result in better practices the following day. 
"It went pretty well," said fullback and tri-captain Anthony Johnson. "We need to be a little more intense; not everyone was clicking on all cylinders. But everybody met their assignments for the most part." 
Ismail said he will not be intimidated by th1~ crowd of 105,000 at Michigan Stadium. The big crowd certainly had an effect when he playml his first collegiate game last fall at Notre Dame Stadium. 
"It was crazy," recalled the flanknr/kiek returner. "I was supposed to return the opening kickoff. then the coaches thought it would be unfair for mn to return the opening kickoff because they had just put me on the spot all of a sudden and I'd never been in a college game before. 
"At first. I was like, 'Aww, okay.' Then I went out there and looked at the stands and thought, 'Whew.' And I was glad I was on the sideline.'' 
Considering it's the week of a matchup between the nation's two top-ranked teams. the Notre Dame players seemed remarkably relaxed at press conferences this week. 
That shouldn't come as too much of a surprise. These big games are becoming old hat for the Irish. Dating to last year. Notre Dame's last three games have been a number-one vs. number-two matchup at Southern California, the Sunkist Fiesta Bowl's 
see NOTEBOOK I page 13 




