
VOL. XXII, NO. 115 MONDAY, APRIL 10, 1989 ·! ···• THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND student attacked Sat. 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Senior Staff Reporter 
A female student was as­saulted between Grace and Pasquerilla East at 3 am Sat­urday. 
Security received a report from a Notre Dame student on Saturday afternoon who said she was assaulted, according to Phil Johnson, assistant director of Security. 
The student reported that she had been assaulted as she walked between Grace Hall and Pasquerilla East. The stu­dent told Security that she was not injured, said Johnson. 
The victim described her at­tacker as a black college age male, six feet, two inches tall with a solid build. She told se­curity that the man ap­proached her and grabbed her wrist, said Johnson. 
The victim and suspect struggled and during the struggle the suspect struck the victim. The student struck her attacker causing him to release her, according to Johnson. 
The victim fled to her residence hall and was not pursued by the suspect. 
Johnson sent a letter to all residence halls and Saint Mary's Security on Saturday describing the incident. 
''The incident is still under investigation and if anyone has any information related to the assault . . . even if it seems remote, please call Crime Stop­pers," said Johnson. 

Soviets: No danger 

Tours air and space 
President Bush and Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir look at rockets on display at the Smithsonian Air and Space Museum in Washington Thursday. 

from sub 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW-The Soviet Union said Sunday that 42 sailors were killed when a nuclear­powered submarine caught fire and exploded in the Norwegian Sea, and it disclosed that two torpedoes on board were armed with nuclear warheads. 
The official Tass news 
agency said the design of the 
warheads "completely rules 
out radiation threat during 
large-depth submergence. To 
ensure radiation safety, the 
nuclear-powered engine was 
stopped and the power unit was 
effectively blanked off." 
It said the submarine carried 
69 men and that only 27 of them 
survived. 
The vessel went down in in­
ternational waters 120 miles 

mishap 
southwest of Norway's Bear Is­land and about 310 miles west of Tromsoe, on Norway's nor­thern coast. 
Scientists were gathering deep-water samples Sunday, and they placed equipment near the sunken ship that would monitor radiation levels for years. 
The Soviets officially in­formed Norway of the accident nearly nine hours after the ves­sel went down. The Norwegian news agency NTB claimed Norwegian rescue helicopters could have reached the ship several hours before Soviet fis­hing vessels if the Soviets had promptly asked for help. 
Soviet officials were criticized for not providing ac-
see SUB I page 6 


300,000 demonstrate for free choice on abortions 
Associated Press The Supreme Court will hear this right go," actress Whoopie arguments April 26 in a Mis­Goldberg told celebrities and 
WASHINGTON-With cries of souri case that pro-choice and members of Congress on "choice" and symbolic coat anti-abortion forces agree Capitol Hill as the marchers hangers hung from their cloth­could significantly alter the gathered in a brisk wind in in­ing, an estimated crowd of 1973 Roe v. Wade decision that termittent sunshine. 300,000 abortion rights activists gave women the right to an The women's rights adv­marched Sunday on the na­abortion. ocates -men and women, tion's Capitol hoping to avert a "I'm thrilled to have my Democrats and Republicans, return to the days of back-alley baby,'' said Kristin MeNamara dozens of members of Congress abortions. of College Park, Md., as she and a host of celebrities ­
wheeled 4-week-old Kathryn in assembled on the Mall at the 
"We're scared," said Ellen a stroller during the march Monument for the march to the Davidson, a Yale University from the Washington Monu­Capitol. junior from Hewlett,_ N.Y., ment to the Capitol. "But I Marchers traded taunts with scared, she said, because think a woman must have a about 200 to 300 anti-abortion "we're coming to the realiza­choice to decide whether and protesters who stood along tion that the thing we've taken when to have a child. She has Constitution Avenue. Police, for granted can be taken to have that right to." away." "The message is: don't let see ACTIVISTS I page 4 
Engineering chairs go to Chang, Costello 
Special to the Observer engineering from the Cali­fornia Institute of Technol­
Hsueh-Chia Chang, pro­ogy and his doctorate from fessor of chemical enginee­Princeton University. He ring at the University of was associate professor at Notre Dame, and Daniel the University of Houston Costello, Jr., professor of for three years before com­electrical and computer ing to Notre Dame in 1987 as engineering, will be the new a full professor. chairmen of their depart­Chang also taught at the ments, according to University of California, Timothy O'Meara, Univer­Santa Barbara, where he sity provost. was awarded a Regent's 
Their appointments are ef­Junior Faculty Award. He fective July 1. The acting received the Presidential chairmen, James :Kohn in Young Investigator Award chemical engineering and from the National Science William Berry in electrical Foundation (NSF) in 1985 and computer engineering, and delivered the University will return to full-time of Delaware's Colburn Lec­teaching. ture in 1988. 
Chang, a specialist in the In his research he has behavior of nonlinear sys­analyzed the free-surface tems when they become un­wave formation that can stable, received his bac­helors degree in chemical see CHAIRS I page 4 


The Observer I Jennifer Sewall
Throw me a curve 

Two students approach the curved reference desk in the Cushwa-Leighton Library on Saint Mary's campus. Waiting is never much fun, especially in a library. 
page 2 The Observer Monday, April 10, 1989 
WORLD BRIEFS 



ND Checkmarking: A 
Mexican police have arrested one of the world's most wanted cocaine dealers who also has been accused of links to the killing of a U.S. drug agent, the federal attorney general's office said Sunday. Miguel Angel Felix Gallardo, called the god­

Spring~~h~k~~~~rm ~-f effici~cy
father of Mexican drug trafficking, was arrested late Saturday ther, trees m bloom, students playing ball onin Guadalajara in the western state of Jalisco, the prosecutor's 

~he quad, checkmarking courses, birds chirp-'F1·nall d
office said in a statement. A statement said Felix Gallardo put mg... y, a oar 
up no resistance. U.S. officials investigating the killing of Drug Enforcement Agent Enrique Camarena Salazar in 1985 said Gal­lardo was able to build up an immense drug operation with protec­tion from high Mexican officials. DEA agents long had suspected Gallardo of involvement in the 1985 slaying of Salazar, but were unable to locate him. 
The government in Bangladesh seized copies of the April 3 issue of Newsweek and banned its entry and publication in the country for publishing a visual image of the prophet Mohammed, authorities said Sunday. Ninety percent of Bangladesh's popula­tion is Moslem, and the faith forbids any-;visual portrayal of Mohammed. In New York, Newsweek spokesman Peter Hultberg said no one from the magazine would be available for comment until Monday. In December, Bangladesh banned Salman Rushdie's novel "The Satanic Verses" for allegedly insulting Islam. 


NATIONAL BRIEFS 
Several hundred anti-abortion activists prayed silently in a symbolic cemetery on the Washington Mall on Sunday as a river of abortion rights activists swept past them to a rally on Capitol Hill. "We are here to pray and to ask God to visit his will. on all these people who think they are for abortions," said Judie Brown, of Stafford, Va. She is president of American Life League Inc., an anti-abortion group. The "Cemetery of the In­nocents," surrounded by a rust-red wooden snow-fence, contained 4,400 white wooden crosses and Stars of David, the number of unborn children the organizers said had been killed daily since the Supreme Court legalized abortion with its Roe Vs. Wade decision in 1973. 
An explosion ripped a 40-foot section from a motel in Billings, Mont., Sunday. Thirty-one people were injured, but no one was killed and only two people were hospitalized from the explosion which was apparently caused by natural gas. "We have witnessed a miracle," Fire Department Capt. Marvin Jochems said after searchers accounted for the last occupant of the Super 8 Motel. "Everybody is accounted for," Jochems said. "We don't expect to find any fatalities in the rubble." 
INDIANA BRIEFS 

Did I mention something about checkmarking courses? 
Yes folks, in less than two weeks we shall all have the supreme pleasure of trampling over our fellow students in order to get that certain class for next semester. For all those freshmen who may have become accustomed to telling their advisors which courses they want and au­tomatically getting it, here's what to expect in the big league: 
You will receive a letter in the mail telling you that students will be able to checkmark courses no earlier than 7 p.m. That means start lining up around 4 p.m. if you want to be in the first half of the line. It's always helpful to bring a snack, a Walkman, and the evening's homework with you. Then you wait. And wait. Finally, a door opens and it's like something out of Dante's Inferno. Hundreds of students are jammed up against the entrance. 
Last year, that's exactly what happened at Stepan Center when students were checkmark­ing their language courses. Everyone managed to squeeze their way inside and begin to form a line, until some Sheriff Lobo made everyone leave the building and come back again. It would be nasty of me to call this officer a red­neck, but he was doing a darn good imitation of one. 
The best part about checkmarking is when you get up to the table and finally ask for the course. This is what I was told last year: 
"I'm sorry, that course is closed." 
"Closed? ! " 

"Yes, but you can put your name on the waiting list." 
"If my name's the first on the waiting list, does that mean I have a good chance of getting in the class?" 
"Probably not, but you can put your name on the waiting list anyway." I'd reall~ like to know who developed the checkmarkmg system, but I don't think anyone 
OF INTEREST 
Senator Dan Coats has been selected to serve on theN ational Commission on Drug-Free Schools. Coats' selection to the 26­member commission was announced Friday by Senate Minority Leader Robert Dole. The commission was established last year as part of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 and is designed to coordinate community anti-drug efforts in the nation's schools. "When you see statistics that show the national average age for first-time drug abuse has dropped below 13, you begin to realize the tragic situation we face. We owe it to our children and our future to applay more than words to the war on drugs," Coats said. The commission, which also includes William Bennett, the nation's drug policy coordinator, and Secretary of Education Lauro Carvazos, is scheduled to report its findings, recommen­dations and proposals to President Bush and the Congress by November. 
WEATHER 


Arctic April 
Partly cloudy today with occasional snow flurries. High in the middle 30s. Mostly clear and continued cold tonight. Low 20 to 25. In­creasing clouds and warmer tomorrow with the high 40 to 45. 
ALMANAC MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for Friday, April 7, 1989
On April 10: e In 1849: Walter Hunt of New 
Dow Jones 
York patented the safety pin. 
Industrial Average e In 1945: American soldiers 
+12.83 
liberated the notorious Nazi concen­Closed at 2304.80 

Applications for HPC Secretary and OC Commissioner are due today in the Student Gov­ernment Secretary's Office on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. 
Cholesterol screening is available for Saint Mary's students, faculty, and staff tomor­row, Aprilll, in the Health Center from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
Sophomores interested in class government should apply for positions in next year's admin­istration at the receptionist's desk on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. 
Summer service projects are still available for a few choice positions in this summer's eight week program in various cities across the U.S. A tuition scholarship is provided. For more in­formation call the Center for Social Concerns at 239-7867. 
Seniors: Les Miserables tickets for those who have already pai~ should be picked up in the Senior Class Office today through W ednes­day from 2 to 4 p.m. 
Attention all clubs: the last day to spend allocated club money is Friday, April 21. There will be no exceptions. Questions should be di­rected to the Student Body Treasurer's Office, Room 203B LaFortune, at 239-7417 between noon and 4 p.m. daily. 
opens and it's like something out of Dante's Inferno ' 
· 
Robyn Simmons Assistant Accent Editor 

would want to come forward and claim respon­sibility. It's kind of like admitting that you're the person who invented the meatless cheeseburger. However, I have a few solutions to the problem of checkmarking that are just as sensible and effective as the old system. 
The dean of the Theology department should walk out at 7 p.m. quoting the following Biblical passage: "The first shall be last and the last shall be first." That way, everyone stuck at the end of the line would get their classes and there would be a tremendous wailing and gnashing of teeth at the front of the line. 
The language department could hold a game of Simon Says in Stepan Center. Whoever is still in the game after the first several rounds gets their class. The rest go on the WAITING LIST. 
For those of you who thought philosophy was boring, students wishing to get a philosophy course get to play "Let's Talk Sartre." Contes­tants must discuss the philosophy of existen­tialism while going through a ·long obstacle course. Winners get their class and a free "Let's Talk Sartre" T-shirt. Losers will get lovely con­solation prizes: a year's supply of Rice-a-Roni, "The San Francisco Treat" and the home ver­sion of "Let's Talk Sartre." 
So there you have it: Checkmarking--what it can do for you. Not much I'm afraid, but since we're all going to go through it anyway, we can either complain or get a good chuckle out of it. In that respect, it's very much like dining hall food, except it doesn't come up on you. 
College Mad House, a wacky new game show, is coming this Friday to audition contes­tants in Stepan Center. If you would like to audi­tion, fill out an application in the Student Ac­tivities Office, Room 315 LaFortune Student Center. The finalist will win a free trip to Cal­ifornia to compete on television against the Uni­versity of Miami. 
The St. Joseph Valley Notre Dame Club sponsors their next luncheon lecture Tuesday, April 11, at the University Club. Dr. Thomas Morris, associate professor of Philosophy, will be the guest speaker. For reservations call Tina Cunningham at 239-6436. 
"On Exhibit," the Memorial Hospital Art series, continues April 9 through May 19 with Joan Tweedell's tropical watercolors and Steven Toepp's photographs "Impressions of Place." For more information, call 287-8092. 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest announces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lecture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submitted materi­als and determine if and where announcements will be published. 
tration camp Buchenwald in what is now East Germany. 
e In 1963: The nuclear·powered submarine USS Thresher failed to surface off Cape Cod, Mass., in a disas­ter that claimed some 129 lives. 
e In 1974: Golda Meir an­nounced her resignation as prime minister of Israel. 
• Ten years ago: 42 people were killed, more than 1.700 injured when a tornado struck Wichita Fall, Texas, destroying 3,000 homes and causing $400 million in damage. 
S&P 500 -'(}1.86 to 297.15 
Currency exchange 
Mark it.0036 to 1.8766 DM I$ 
Yen i?-1.14to 132.70¥1$ 
Precious Metals 
Gold {}-$.70 to $388.00 1oz. Silver{}-3.5¢ to $5.798 1oz. 


Wednesday's Staff 
Design Editor ...................... Mark Mclaughlin Design Assistant........................ Kathy Gliwa Typesetters ..........................•..... Andy Schlidt ..........................................Chris Malin

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 News Editor •...•••..•...•................... Greg Lucas Copy Editor................................. Sarah Voigt
(219) 239-7471 Sports Copy Editor ...•......... Steve Megargee VIewpoint Copy Editor .••...•••..•. Kelly Golden VIewpoint Layout..................... Alison Cocks Accent Editor ....................... Robyn Simmons Accent Designer....................... Alison Cocks
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except 
Typists ........................................... Will Zamer 

dunng exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the 
. ................................................. Diana Bradley Umvers1ty of Notre Dame and Saint Mary"s College. Subscriptions may be pur­NO Day Editors........................... Katie Gugle chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. . ..................... Jennifer Richards The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights SMC Day Editor.................. Rozel Gatmaitan are reserved. 
Ads Designers.............................. Kerry Clair ..... Shannon RoachInformation compiled from Observer wires and Observer staff reports. 


Monday, April 10, 1989 

The Observer page 3 
South Africa agrees to safe passage for guerrillas 

Associated Press 
WINDHOEK, Namibia-South Africa agreed Sunday to allow black nationalist guerril­las safe passage from northern Namibia to Angola in an offer aimed at preserving plans for Namibia's independence. 
The proposal could bring to an end the fighting between South African-led security forces and guerrillas of the South-West Africa People's Or­ganization. The violence has threatened to derail the U.N.­supervised plan for Namibian independence from South Africa. 
There was no immediate comment on the offer from the 
Welcome 
South-West Africa People's Or­ganization, or SWAPO, which has been fighting for indepen­dence since 1966. 
However, the withdrawal plan appeared similar to a pro­posal made earlier Sunday by guerrilla leader Sam Nujoma, who called on his fighters to stop firing, regroup and allow themselves to be escorted into Angola by U.N. personnel. 
South African Foreign Mini­ster P .K. Botha announced the plan following two days of talks between his government, An­gola, Cuba, and U.S. and Soviet observers. The talks were held at Mount Etjo, a private safari lodge 120 miles north of Windhoek. 

The withdrawal plan gives the guerrillas until April 15 to leave Namibia. Under the pro­posal, the SWAPO fighters would have two options: 
-They could assemble at one of 10 points inside Namibia and relinquish their weapons to 
U.N. forces, who will then fly them to bases in Angola. 
-They could travel to one of eight assembly points on the Namibian-Angolan border. They would be allowed to keep their arms and the Angolan government would take responsibilty for returning them to bases. 
U.N.  and  Namibian  ter­ 
ritorial  personnel  would  be  
present  at  all  18  assembly  

AP Photo 

British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, right, welcomes Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, center, and his wife, Raisa, left to 10 Downing St. in London Thursday night. The Gorbachevs stopped in London for a 40-hour visit following their trip to Havana. Also pictured are Mrs. Thatcher's husband, Denis, partly hidden at left, and her interpreter, Richard Pollock, behind Gorbachev. 
Ramos crowned '89 'Mr. Stanford' 
By RON SEVERINO Staff Reporter 
Paul Ramos was crowned 
1989 "Mr. Stanford" in the 
seventh annual Stanford 
Hall male beauty pageant 
Saturday night before a 
crowd of 400. 
The contest, the proceeds 
of which will go towards 
charity, consisted of four 
categories: formal wear, 
swim wear, talent, and ques­
tion and answer. 
Ramos, who imper­sonated Michael Jackson in the talent category, edged out Joe Hettich (runner-up) and Chris Greek (3rd place) for the coveted crown. 
Steve Wightkin and Tom Walsh served as the masters of ceremonies. The event also included music and comedy skits other than those performed by the con­testants. 
"The contest originated seven years ago in the Stan­ford Hall party room," said Wightkin. What began in the Stanford party lounge now takes place in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium and has 

grown  into  a  large  
fundraiser.  
The  proceeds,  which  
Wightkin  estimated  to  be  

close to $1000, will go towards the Children's Hope Foundation, a charity created last year to aid a 13 year-old victim of the El Sal­vador civil war. The victim, 
'--------------------------.Walter Palucho, is a triple 
ATTENTION: Grad Students, 

Professors, Employees 

MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Less than 1 0 minutes from campus 

Offers 
* Pool, Clubhouse • locked intercom entrances 
• Washer & dryer in each apartment • flexible leases 
( also -furnished executive suites ) call for details-277-3731 

EQUAl HOUSING 
~NfTY 

amputee as a result of an ac­cidental bomb explosion, and the charity assists in his ongoing medical expenses. 
points, according to the offer, which took effect immediately. 
South Africa contends SWAPO has sent more than 1,900 guerrillas into northern Namibia from Angola since April1 in violation of a regional peace accord that requires them to remain at bases at least 100 miles inside Angola. 
SWAPO maintained that the guerrillas were inside Namibia prior to April and should be al­lowed to set up bases in tne ter­ritory. 
But Nujoma said he made the concession because he did not want to give South Africa an excuse to cancel Namibia's in­dependence plans. 
Some U.N. officials have sug­gested that SWAPO field com­manders mistakenly thought their units could return to Namibia beginning April 1 and set up bases there. Several cap­tured guerrillas have said they returned to Namibia in search of U.N. personnel and expected no confrontations with the se­curity forces. 
At least 263 SWAPO guerril­las and 28 members of the South African-led security forces have been killed in the heaviest fighting of the terri­tory's 23-year war, police said. 
SWAPO officials outside Namibia have disputed the fig­ures and say many civilians also have been killed. 



Soviet run-offs held for parliament 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW-A Stalin biog­rapher and the head of an in­dependent Lithuanian political group were .among candidates who competed in Sunday's runoff elections for seats in the new Soviet parliament. 
It was the second stage of the Soviet Union's first multican­didate national elections. 
In the first round on March 26, voters rejected at least 45 government and Communist Party leaders in their bids for seats in the new Congress of People's Deputies. 
Sunday's runoffs involved 64 districts in which no candidate won the required 50 percent majority in the first election be­cause three or more candidates split the vote. Results were not expected until at least Monday. 
In one race, Stalin biog­rapher Roy Medvedev faced Ksenya Razumova, head of an atomic research laboratory in Moscow. Virjiljus Chepaitis, head of the Lithuanian altern­ative political group Sajudis, ran against Ivan Tikhonovich, dean of the Vilnius Pedagogical Institute in the Lithuanian cap­ital of Vilnius. 

Apartheid Awareness Week to be held 
By JOHN O'BRIEN Senior Staff Reporter 
Apartheid and Divestment will be the main topics of dis­cussion and debate as Apar­theid Awareness Week is held this week. 
The event is part of the Year of Cultural Diversity and is co­sponsored by the Office of the Provost and the Student Union Board. 
"It's basically an attempt to educate students on the issue (of Apartheid) and hopefully they will decide what course of action they deem appropri­ate," said John-Paul Checkett, chairperson of the Anti­Apartheid Network on campus. 
Checkett and other members of the Network have served as consultants for the week, which features activities from Mon­day through Friday. 
The week's main event is a lecture by journalist and au-


In conjunction with National Volunteer Week, April 9-15, the Legal Services Program of Northern Indiana wishes to recognize and thank all of the Notre Dame and. St. Mary' s students who have so 
generously volunteered their time to our agency this past year. 
Scott Baker  Patti Knoebel  Matt Pfohl  
Randy Bridgeman Lisa Kuhns  Dan Ripper  
Mary Endres  Deidre Laatz  Suzy Roy  
Gretchen Etzel  Lisa Marz  Chris Stoler  
Julie Fessel  Carol Montavon  Rob Viducich  
Ed Jordanich  Susan Pawlecki  Ann Marie Waldron  

thor  Donald  Woods  on  
Thursday  at  8  p.m.  in  the  
Engineering Auditorium.  

Woods is a former South African journalist who was banned from speaking publicly for publishing the details of the killing of black leader Steven Biko. Woods' experiences were the basis for the movie "Cry Freedom," which will be shown on Wednesday in the Cushing Hall of Engineering Auditorium. 
Ezra Sigwela, a former poli­tical prisoner in South Africa, will give a lecture tonight at 7 
p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. "Witness to Apar­theid," a film which explains the issue of Apartheid, will be shown before the lecture. 
"Amnesty International was instrumental in bringing Ezra Sigwela in," said Bob Hawkins, chairman of the Ideas and Is­sues Committee of SUB. "As a prisoner he was adopted by the Notre Dame chapter of Am­nesty International and is now free." 

A panel discussion on the issue of Divestment will be held Tuesday night at 7 p.m. David Link, Dean of the Law School, Professor Peter Walshe and Professor James Carberry will be members of the panel and former Student Body Vice­President Mike Paese will moderate. 
The week concludes with a concert and demonstration on the steps of the Administration Building from 6 to 8 p.m. Spon­sored by the Anti-Apartheid Network, the concert will fea­ture · Alan Saye and the McNeills, a campus social jus­tice band. 
~~-­

page 4 The Observer Monday, April 10, 1989 
r 


1 Simplified nuclear fusion 
,

, I ~ experiment is duplicated 
,r Associated Press to the researchers in Utah we Pons has said he wasn't wanted to announce it as soon surprised at his colleagues' dif­
r HOUSTON-Texas A&M Uni­as possible." ficulties because the experi­versity researchers have dupl­Scientists have long sought ment is more complicated than icated a controversial Univer­the secrets of nuclear fusion, press reports have made it out sity of utah experiment that considered a possible replace­to be, and only recently have reportedly achieved nuclear ment for conventional energy the technical details reached fusion using a relatively simple sources because it would be the scientific community. process, a college spokesman clean, inexpensive and vir­
Steven Jones of Brigham
said Sunday. tually inexhaustable. 

Young University in utah said
Officials at the school in Col­Researchers in Utah an­recently that he had achievedlege Station said they would nounced March 23 that they had fusion in a similar experiment, hold a news conference Mon­achieved nuclear fusion at but obtained far less energyday to announce that their re­

room temperature. Their than Pons and Fleischmannsearchers had achieved the claim has been met with said they obtained. 
same kind of cold fusion, one widespread skepticism among

of the most sought-after scien­Fusion, the energy source
colleagues.

tific breakthroughs. that powers the sun and "Other labs around the Other researchers have com­hydogen bombs, is achieved by country have been trying to du­plained that they tried to repl­joining atoms, usually through 
AP Photo 

plicate this, but nobody else has icate the experiment of Stanley the application of millions of 
been able to get satisfactory Pons of the University of utah degrees of heat. Fission, the en­MIT physicist Stan Luckhardt is seen Thursday at the Plasma Fusion results," said Ed Walraven, a and his British colleague, Mar­ergy source for nuclear power Center at MIT in Cambridge, Mass., using a fast neutron detactor to spokesman for Texas A&M." tin Fleischmann of the Univer­plants, comes from splitting detect readings in researchers attempts to confirm results in a duplica­Our people are convinced that sity of Southhampton, but with­atoms. Fusion generates far tion of a fusion experiment claimed to work by Utah researchers, which they've got it, so as a gesture out success. less waste than fission. if successful will provide a cheap energy source. So far the experiment 
at MIT has not been successful. 
also contributed to the design

New genetic test provides rapid 
of the codes used by NASA for

Chairs 

its Pioneer space series, in­continued from page 1 cluding the Pioneer 10 Jupiter

prenatal detection of birth defects 
fly-by mission, the Pioneer 11 Associated Press decisions private, said Mrs. mined through laboratory flaw the process of coating Saturn fly-by mission, and the Chin, helped her decide to try analysis of cells taken from the photographic films or coating Pioneer 12 Venus orbiter. 
WASHINGTON-Allison again. Allison and Robert are mother. But the cells used for electrical wires with plastic. It His current research support Chin, 3, and her 2-month-old the result. CVS develop much earlier than can also increase the cost of from NASA includes work on a brother, Robert, never would "CVS made the difference those for amniocentesis. pumping oil out of the ground coding standard that would be have been born except for a between having a family and because it creates resistance. used to transmit messages in 
prenatal test called chorionic not having a family for my hus­CVS uses cells taken from the In addition, he has studied any of the space agency's fu­villus sampling. band and me," she said. chorion, a part of the develop­ways to control the chaotic fluc­ture missions. In addition to the 
Their mother, Karen Chin, Chorionic villus sampling ing placenta. The chorion is tuations that can occur in support his research receives had decided against children can determine the genetic covered with small projections catalytic converters and other from NASA, Costello also has after ending her first preg­health of a fetus as early as called the villi. These contain chemical reactors. received funding from NSF and nancy with an abortion because eight weeks after conception. cells genetically identical with the Office of Naval Research. 
Chang's work is theoretical
an amniocentesis test showed This is seven to 10 weeks ear­the fetus. By gently suctioning He has more than 50 refereed
and basic. He solves the math­
the baby had a severely disa­lier than is possible with am­samples of these villi, a doctor publications in his field and is
ematical equations that ex­
bling genetic defect. Family niocentesis, a prenatal testing is harvesting the blueprint of coauthor of a textbook, Error
plain a particular phenomenon 
and friends already knew about method in use for about 20 the unborn child without actu­Control Coding: Fundamentals
and leaves it to experimen­
her pregnancy, and the abor­years. . ally touching the fetus. and Applications, published by
talists to apply his solutions to
tion was a public trauma she Those extra weeks are criti­Prentice-Hall in 1983. 
many different processes. He
didn't want again. cal to millions of older women Ultrasonography, a way of Costello was elected fellow of
has more than 50 refereed
Then, Mrs. Chin and her hus­who are most at risk for having viewing the fetus in the womb, the Institute for Electrical and 
publications in these areas, and 
band, Bobby, learned about children with birth defects, makes CVS possible. It uses Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 
his primary research support
cvs. and, hence, are more likely to high frequency sound waves to in 1985, served as president of
has been from NSF and the
The new technique is per­stop a pregnancy with abor­make a computer-enhanced the IEEE Information Theory 
American Chemical Society. 

formed weeks before am­tion. image of the fetus and its loca­Society Board of Governors in niocentesis,· long before the In both CVS and amniocen­tion in the uterus. The machine Costello, who came to Notre 1986, and cochaired the IEEE pregnancy is "showing." The tesis, the gender and genetic also guides the doctor to the Dame in 1985 as a full profes­International Symposium on ability to keep her reproductive health of a fetus are deter-chorion. sor, helped design the commu­Information Theory held in 
nication system for the Na­1988 in Kobe, Japan. 
on the bathroom floor with a young to remember the days tional Aeronautics and Space He has served as profes­
coat hanger." before the Supreme Court Administration's (NASA) sional consultant for Western

Activists 

Actor Leonard Nimoy, legalized abortion in 1973, stu­Tracking and Data Relay Electric, Illinois Institute of continued from page 1 wearing a pin on his white dents said they recognize the Satellite System that relays Technology, Motorola Commu­
sweatshirt saying "Honorary threat now posed by a major weather information from nications, and Digital Trans­some on horseback, kept the Sister," said: "Nobody likes challenge to that ruling. other satellites to earth. He mittion Systems. opposing forces apart. the idea of an abortion. But if 
Some 90,000 people gathered it has to happen, there should "Gradually we're believing for a March 1986 pro-abortion be freedom of choice." its a possibility" that the right 
. rally in Washington. The num­Students came in bus loads to abortion could be taken ber paricipating Sunday was from campuses across the away, said Yale junior, Bryony over triple that number. country. Though most are too Romer. Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
Many of Sunday's presents 
The Power and the Glory
demonstrators wore white, the 

r---------------------1 
by Dennis Cannan and Pierre Bost
color of the suffragettes who 
Adapted from the novel by Graham Greene

fought for women's right to vote. Some brought their young Directed by Reginald Bain children. They carried signs Setting and Lighting



Europe! I 
saying: "Motherhood Should designed by Willard Neuert Always Be a Choice," "Roe Costumes designed Roe Roe or Sink," and "Going by Richard E. Donnelly
This Summer I 
Public for Privacy." 
Washington Hall 

Wire coat hangers were hung from the clothing of many mar­I Wednesday, April19-8:10pm 
Thursday, April20-8:10pm
chers, who carried signs 


Your Europe Travel Center II Friday, April 21 -8:10pm
saying, "Never Again." It was 
Saturday, April22-8:10pm

a reference to the often deadly Lowest airfares to Europe Sunday, April 23-3:10pm
self -abortion technique used by 

Eurail passes, rail information 1 Main Floor $6, Balcony $5
women in the United States 
•Students I Senior Citizens $4

before the procedure was VISA assistance I 
*(Wed., Thurs.• Sun. only)
legalized. 

Assistance with tours, Individual I 
Tickets are available at the
"The majority of Americans 
LaFortune Student Center Box Office

do not want to see the clock itineraries, hotels, student travel 
I 
Weekdays, 12:15pm to 6pm
turned back," said Sen. Alan 

Cranston, D-Calif. For Your Summer Trip to Europe CAII:I MasterCard/Visa orders call239-5957 
Goldberg said: "Abortion is 

Seven Seas Travel 
I
a negative experience .... It's not something you want to go 525 North Michigan Street through, but if you need one, South Bend, IN 4660~ 1 you should have one that's safe. I don't want anyone to end up ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

-~------~~-~------------­

Monday, April 10, 1989 The Observer page 5 

Alaskan oil spill battle continues 
Associated Press 
VALDEZ, Alaska-Military jets flew skimmers, booms, and beach landing craft into Alaska on Sunday, and com­manders issued a Pacific-wide call for more equipment to fight the nation's worst oil spill. 
Kodiak, the nation's richest fishing port, prepared for the onslaught of oil by putting out log booms, but the Coast Guard said the leading edge of the spill, 60 miles away, retreated a bit and began breaking up into tar balls and sinking. 
"That's good news," said Bill Lamoreaux, the state's on­scene coordinator. 
The tanker Exxon Valdez ran aground on a reef near here March 24, spilling 10.1 million gallons of crude into pristine Prince William Sound. The oil has spread into the Gulf of Alaska and fouled some of the many islands in the region. 
On Friday, President Bush said he would send the military to help with the cleanup. Exxon Corp., which has been accused of moving too slowly to contain the spill, will continue to pro­vide materials, manpower and money. 
Also Sunday: 

-A 40-foot gray whale was found dead in an oil-fouled area. Wildlife experts said they hadn't determined whether it was the first whale to succumb to the spill that has already killed thousands of other animals. 
-Exxon said it was beginning to reimburse fishermen for losses from the cancellation of the herring season and had paid $250,000 to cover expenses for fishing boats attacking the spill on their own. 

Coast Guard spokesman Rick Meidt said an Air Force general made a tour of the area and sent a call to bases around the Pacific to find out what was available and what the esti­mated time of arrival in Valdez would be. 
The Coast Guard's Pacific commander, Vice Adm. Clyde Robbins, was joining the federal effort. Other experts dispatched by the Pentagon surveyed the cleanup, and with the help of the military, cleanup gear poured into Val­dez. 
"C5-A after C5-A is bringing in equipment," including skim­mers, more booms and beach landing craft to move people to the oily shoreline, Meidt said. 
The Navy sent barges out­fitted as hotels so that when coastline cleanup gets under way, workers will be housed near where they are working. 
The forecast called for con­tinued northeast winds, which will keep the oil moving toward Kodiak, 300 miles from the ac­cident site. Kodiak last year produced a fish catch worth $166 million. 
But Meidt said, "When the helicopters go up, they're seeing streamers a couple of miles long and slicks that are breaking up at the edges." 

The Observer I Jennifer Sewall 

Students strike expressive poses in a number during Tour de Dance, an event performed by the Saint Mary's College Repretory/ Performance Dance Workshop. This number was one of eleven presented last Saturday and Sunday in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Tour de Dance held at SMC 
By DANNIKA SIMPSON News Staff 
The Saint Mary's College Repertory/ Performance Dance Workshop presented Tour de Dance over the weekend, an event which consisted of eleven individ­ual dance numbers per­formed by Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students. 
The dance styles varied from ballet, to jazz, to modern dance. Dances were performed to music from a wide variety of artists, in-eluding Tina Titrner, and Emmy Lou Harris. 

Notre Dame student Andrea Rei~ly and and Saint Mary's student Sus_an Schwerin choreographed "Rain," a jazz dance set to music by Terence Trent D'Arby. 
Indi Dieckgrafe, director of the production, said that the Repetory/ Performance Dance Workshop does a show each year and every three years they perform in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
The company also per­formed in December at Madigal Dinners in conjunc­tion with the music depart­ment of Saint Mary's. 

Although the company has performed only at Saint Mary's in the past, they have "high hopes" of performing at other locations, said Dieckgrafe. 
Dieckgrafe also said that students are required to audition and must be en­rolled in a technique class in order to perform with the company. 
FRESHMAN PRE-ADVANCE REGISTRATION PROGRAMS Pre-advance registration programs will be conducted for freshmen in all college program areas on Tuesday, April 11, 1989. At each program complete information will be given on the advance registration procedures and on the sophomore year and its relationship to the degree program. The meeting places for the programs, according to college program area, are as follows: Arts and Letters College Programs (All, including AL Preprofessional) Engineering (C?ushing) Auditorium A through K at 6:30 P.M. L through Z at 8:00 P.M. Business Administration College Program Hayes-Healy Auditorium A through F at 6:30 to 7:20 P.M. G through M at 7:30 to 8:20 P.M. N through Z at 8:30 to 9:20 P.M. Engineering College Program (All programs to start at 6:30P.M.) Aerospace 12 Aerospace Building (75) Architecture 202 Architecture BuildinQ Chemical 182 Fitzpatrick Hall Civil 205 Cushing Hall Electrical and Computer Engineering 356 Fitzpatrick Hall Materials Science and Engineering 384 Fitzpatrick Hall Mechanical 120 Cushing Hall Biological Sciences 283 Galvin Life Science Center Chemistry 127 Nieuwland Science Hall (Combined with Preprofessional) Earth Sciences 101 Earth Science Building Mathematics 300 Computing Centei!Math Bldg. Physics 118 Nieuwland Science ~:00 P.M.} Preprofessional 127 Nieuwland Science all (All majors, this includes all collegiate sequence majors.) SCIENCE ONLY Financial Aid Information -5:30 P.M. Engineering (Cushing) Auditorium FRESHMEN ARE REQUIRED TO ATTEND THE PROGRAM OF THE COLLEGE OR DEPARTMENT THEY INTEND TO ENTER IN THE SOPHOMORE YEAR.  



Monday, April 10, 1989

page 6 The Observer 

Militia officers guard a government building on Rustaveli Avenue, the main street in Soviet Georgia, while demonstrators mill around. Some are calling for secession from the USSR. 
Veternarian employs herbs, accupunture to cure furry friends 
Associated Press 
TAKOMA Park, Md.-Take away Fido's bowl of gravy­laden goodies and treat him in­stead to a dollop of yogurt or some steamed broccoli. And if Tabby is bothered by fleas, try using a collar soaked in eucalyptus oil or sprinkling garlic on her supper. 
This prescription for happy, healthy pets is written by Dr. Monique Maniet, an auburn­haired, Belgian-born 
veterinarian  who  practices  
holistic  medicine  for  ailing  
dogs and cats.  

She uses vaccines and an­tibiotics, if necessary, but 
Sub 
continued from page 1 
curate or timely information after the 1986 explosion and fire at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. That incident sent a cloud of radiation into the at­mosphere, contaminating crops and livestock in Europe. In Oslo, Defense Ministry 
prefers natural foods, soothing herbs, Chinese acupuncture, chiropractic massages and plenty of tender, loving care to help her furry patients heal themselves. 
Dr. Maniet says she gets "as­tonishing results" from acupuncture, especially among dogs plagued by arthritis or itching skin. The needles, however, are likely to provoke a yowling, fur-flying complaint from feline pets. 
If Fido is suffering from swollen joints, she might inject some honeybee venom. If he's uptight about missing his usual breakfast of red meat, she might calm him with a herbal 
In Moscow, the Soviet mili­tary newspaper Red Star re­ported Sunday that the sub­marine was on its way home when a fire broke out in a com­partment. 
''The crew bravely fought the fire and tried to save the ship," the newspaper report said, citing an interview with Capt. 
P. Ishchenko of the Northern Fleet. "The fight for life con­tranquilizer of black cohosh and passion flowers. 
"Research has shown that our pets can benefit from the same holistic care that we are learning to give to ourselves," Dr. Maniet says, speaking in a soft French accent. 
"Most of us have just begun to examine the way we live, as­sessing our food choices, sleep­ing habits, exercise routines and emotional support," she said. "Animals have many of the same needs." 
Dr. Maniet came to the United States in 1977 with her new American husband, a fel­low veterinary student in Brus­sels. 
of water, it will go to pieces be­cause of the pressure," Senstad told reporters. 
Johan Baarli, head of the ra­diation protection institute, said the tests on the surface water showed a gamma radia­tion level at a natural level. 
"We found no trace of radia­tion which could have any as­sociation with the submarine,'' he said. 

Serial murders continue in Mass. 
Associated Press 
NEW Bedford, Mass.-The bodies of eight young women have turned up in recent months along wooded high­ways near this port city. And David Amaral's sister is mis­sing. 
Family members and inves­tigators fear that she and an­other missing woman are the ninth and lOth victims of an ap­parent serial killer. 
"She had her problems, but she wouldn't just walk off," Amaral said of his 25-year-old sister, Sandra Botelho. "I'm sure she's dead. And every time they find a body, it starts all over again." 
The most recent body was found March 31 and identified last week as that of Mary Rose Santos, 26. 
Botelho, the mother of two young children, has been mis­sing since August. Like the eight women whose remains have been found within a few miles of each other since the summer, she was a drug user who spent time in the city's less savory quarters. 

The district attorney says . evidence indicates the slayings are the work of the same per­
son  or  persons,  but  he  has  
declined  to  reveal  further  
details.  

Until recently the investiga­tion seemed at a standstill, but an anonymous tipster alerted officials to the killer's eighth victim. Last week, after Ms. Santos' body was found, the tipster responded to a plea to contact police again, but offi­cers wouldn't say what infor­mation he or she provided. 
New Bedford police heard from a string of families with missing wives or daughters from May to September 1988, and the first body was found in July. But it was not until the first victim was identified in December as a New Bedford woman that the investigation really kicked into gear. 
Police defended the delay in beginning the investigation in earnest. 


Brush fires ravage farmland in Florida 
Associated Press 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla.-Gov. Bob Martinez called out two helicopter crews from the Florida National Guard on Sun­day to help fight wildfires covering about 30,000 acres of rural land in four counties. 
The fires were burning in mostly unpopulated areas and weren't expected to force any immediate evacuations, said Rod Westall, chief of the state Bureau of Emergency Plan­ning. 
Winds of 5 to 15 mph were hampering efforts to control the blazes in both northern Florida and Dade County, while drought conditions statewide had disaster officials with all the fires," Westall said of the wind. 
watching  for  further  out­ 
breaks.  
"That's  pretty  brisk  and  

Martinez signed an executive order allowing the guard to pro­vide equipment and personnel, if needed, to the Division of Forestry. 
"The worst mistake we could make would be to wait too long and let these fires get out of control," said Martinez. "The affected areas so far are rela­tively rural, but we must act quickly to make sure these fires do not threaten large res­idential areas.'' 
As of noon Sunday, state forestry officials reported that 20,000 acres had been burned in western Dade County near the southern tip of the state; 6,000 acres in Lafayette and Taylor counties in the northern part of the state; and about 3,000 acres in Hendry County in the south-central part of the 

spokesman Erik Senstad told tinued for more than five hours, 
that's been causing problems state. the news conference the but with no results." Soviets declined an offer of Sea The Norwegians said an ex­
Join 

. f!i--­
King helicopters from a Nor­plosion occurred on the ship wegian rescue base 370 miles after the fire spread and that 
Satnt Mar_y's Coli~~ 
away, but he refused to say if the vessel then sank 4,500 feet. 
NOTRE DAME ·INOI.'.NA

The Observer

more lives could have been "We believe that when a sub­saved. marine is sunk (at that depth) 
Dept. of Communication & Theatre Fall 1989 Classes
EARN YOUR WINGS Warrant Officer Flight Training 


Attention Engineers 
Courses in Acting
takes ability, dedication and 
commitment. It's an intensive 
THTR 276 Intro to Acting 11:00-12:15 TT
training program, but it's worth it. 
THTR 476 Playing Shakespeare 


Engineer's Week 
1:15-2:30 TT 
To start, you must have a high 
school diploma, and preferably two years of college. You'll have to 
General Theatre Courses


Events 
meet some tough physical and 

Monday
mental requirements, and then 

THTR 135 Intro to Theatre 1:15-2:30 TT 
complete Basic Warrant Officer 

THTR 135 Intro to Theatre 2:45-4:00 TT 

9-11 AM Donuts & Hot Chocolate 
THTR 201 Play Analysis 11:15-12:05 MWF
Flight training before you begin 

THTR 272 Theory & Practice
the 40-week Training Program. Go 


3-4 PM Crossword Puzzle Contest 
of Tech. Theatre
the distance, and you'll earn the 

THTR 476 Playing Shakespeare 1:15-2:30 TT 
of an Army aviator. To see if you 


7-9 PM Movie and Popcorn
qualily for Warrant Officer Flight Training, see your Army Recruiter. 

and
He'll help you get things off the 


Tuesday AM 
ground. 

Introducing a new team-taught

11 :30-2 PM ice cream social
SGT Robert Hackley 

interdisciplinary course. Shakespeare in Performance
ARMY. 


All events held in 
Prof. Roberta N. Rude, SMC 
Prof. Paul Rathburn, ND
BE ALL YOU 


EG Student Center
CAN BE. 

Admission by interview only. For information and appointment call 284-4640. 


~-----~-~~-----··-· 
-~-----~--·---­
Monday, April 10, 1989 The Observer page 7 






South Bend man guilty of murder 
Associated Press 
SOUTH Bend-A South Bend man convicted of assisting in the murder of a school prin­cipal is scheduled to be sen­tenced May 4. 
A St. Joseph Superior Court jury deliberated about two hours Friday before finding Howell Atkins guilty in the July 29 death of Raymond Hinsey. 
The jury also found that At­kins is a habitual criminal of­fender with three unrelated felony convictions. 
Atkins made no comment and showed no emotion when the verdicts were read. 
The habitual offender convic­tion means that Judge Sanford Brook may add 30 years to At­kins' sentence of up to four years on the assisting a cri­minal charge. 
The verdicts ended a five-day trial filled with unusual events 
British journalism traded the patched around the country, all 
••••111111!•••••••••••••••••.. typewriters' 
clatter for the was silent where for decades 
J d 
and controversy. 
Atkins, 37, was accused of helping Eddie James Briggs to avoid apprehension after Briggs killed Hinsey, 36. The Greene School principal was stabbed to death in his garage. 
Briggs, 25, of Niles, Mich., is serving a 55-year prison sen­tence he received after plead­ing guilty in December to the murder and robbery of Hinsey. 
Briggs refused to testify for the state at Atkins' trial. He was found in contempt of court and sentenced to an additional 90 days in jail by Brook. 
Atkins maintained he had nothing to do with Hinsey's slaying, but he did not testify. 
The state contended Atkins disposed of bloody clothes and a knife for Briggs and assisted Briggs in washing the 1987 Pon­tiac Fiero that Briggs took from Hinsey's garage. 
AP Photo 

Sarah Morehouse, a Poughkeepsie, N.Y., fourth grader, grits her teeth as she ponders how to spell "massacre" during a spelling bee earlier this week. The contest was sponsored by the local chapter of Literacay Volunteers of America. She misspelled the word and was eliminated. 
'-Qra Uate ( Studel1t 
' 


union 
Committee Chairpersons 1989-90 
The Graduate Student Union is interested in dynamic graduate students to chair various GSU Standing Committees for the 1989-90 academic year. 
Positions avail3ble are: 
PARLIAMENTARIAN, ORIENTATION COMMITTEE, LIBRARY COMMITTEE, TRAVEL GRANT COMMITTEE, INTERNATIONAL GRADUATE STUDENT COMMITTEE, WOMEN'S RESOURCES COMMITTEE, INTELLECTUAL LIFE COMMITTEE, and MINORITY ISSUES COMMITTEE. 
Applications and job descriptions are available from the GSU office, Room 307, LaFortune Student Center. 
DEADLINE is APRIL 14th, 1989. 
quiet of high technology. typewriters clacked, linotypeBehind the gleaming, black machines rattled, and presses 1 
f d f th t d E hummed. 
g ass aca eo ear eco x-

press building, reporters, Express Newspapers group
editors and technicians crated is moving only a few hundred 
•••••••••••••••••••••-• APARTHEID AWARENESS WEEK Aprill0-13 
Millions of Africans are migrant workers who must leave their homes and travel alone to cities where they are employed on yearly contracts. They are forced by this system to live much of their married life as if they were single, seeing their families for short visits only once a year. It is illegal for an African lacking the re'quired permits of residence and employment to be in an urban area longer than 72 hours. 
Why does this occur? Come see "Witness to Apartheid" at 7pm at the esc, followed by a discussion with forme llyr. prisoner in S.Africa Ezra Sigwela. 
Find out about Apartheid from those who have lived under it 
•Ill••••••••••••••••••••.. remain 
at their Fleet Street

headquarters. 

Off the track 
AP Photo 

Workmen gather around a derailed commuter train and a tractor-trailer rig, left, that collided io Lemont, Ill., Thursday. Forty-two people, including the driver of the truck, were injured in the accident. 




Israeli soldiers kill 12 and 60-year-old Palestinians 
Associated Press 

JERUSALEM-Soldiers fa­tally shot two Palestinians during clashes in the occupied territories Sunday, including a 12-year-old boy and a 60-year­old man who attacked a soldier with a pitchfork. 
Also Sunday, Finance Mini­ster Shimon Peres said Israel was negotiating indirectly with the PLO through U.S. mediators, despite Prime Min­ister Yitzhak Shamir's opposi­tion to dealing with the organi­zation. 
Arab reports said 11 Pales­tinians were wounded in vio­lence that came on the second day of a general strike in the occupied West Bank and Gaza 
British journalistic tradition fades as final Fleet Street edition is published 
Associated Press the contents of desks, packed 
up their memories, and sent off 

LONDON-The last national the final Fleet Street edition of newspaper on Fleet Street, the Sunday Express before once London's rumbustious moving to new headquarters. newspaper row, made its final When the last bundle of press run there Sunday as papers was tied up and dis-Strip. The strike was called to mark the 17th month of the uprising, which has killed 422 Palestinians and 18 Israelis. 
Peres, head of the left­leaning Labor Party, made his comment about the PLO as he spoke on Israel radio about Shamir's plan for elections in the occupied lands. 
He said Israel had in effect conceded its longstanding refusal to talk to the Palestine Liberation Organization by having the Americans mediate on the election question. 
"The United States is at this moment a mediator between us and the Palestinians, including the PLO, even though this isn't to our liking," he said. 
Peres also said he accepted Shamir's election idea but an­ticipated difficulties because Shamir, of the right-wing Likud bloc, refused the Palestinian demand for international su­pervision of the bailoting. 

Shamir's plan calls for Pales­tinians in the occupied lands to select representatives to negotiate an interim solution for the disputed territories. 
In the West Bank city of Hebron, a curfew was imposed after troops shot to death a 60­year-old laborer. The army said the man attacked soldiers with a pitchfork. 
Arab reports said the man, Ahmad Mohammed Sneineh, attacked after a soldier struck a woman who was trying to block Sneineh's arrest. 
yards across the River Thames to a new, 10-story building with computers and other modern newspaper technology. 
But the site is a million spir­itual miles from the noisy ex­uberance of Fleet Street 89 years ago, when the Daily Ex­press was the new kid on the 
block. The Sunday Express 
was founded by Lord
Beaverbrook in 1918, and its 
celebrated building went up in 
1931. The British are avid newspa­per readers. For nearly 300 years, the country's national papers were all published on or near Fleet Street. The short, crowded street and adjoining warren of alleys and hidden courtyards were abuzz around the clock with journalists rush­ing to meet deadlines. 
The national newspapers have moved away one by one to computerized facilities since publisher Rupert Murdoch began the exodus in 1986. That year, his four newspapers -the Times, The Sunday Times, The Sun and The News of The World -moved to the developing Dock­lands, breaking the hold of uni­ons fighting high-technology encroachments on their jobs. 
.The Reuters and Press Asso­ciation news agencies will 
~=---~ ____ --_________
~--~--_-----·: 




Viewpoint
page 8 Monday, April 10, 1989 


P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 

1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris DonnellyManaging Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor .... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor ................. Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ....... Shannon Roach Sports Editor ...................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks Accent Editor .......................... John Blasi Systems Manager ............. Mark Derwent Photo Editor ............................ Eric Bailey OTS Director................... Angela Bellanca Controller............................ Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members 
of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
•1T~ N..l IN ~10> N~W CONTRACT " 

EDITORIAL LETTERS 

Polish reforms a good start 
The agreement between the Solidarity trade union and Polish government officials to allow competitive elections and restore the legality of the banned workers union is a great step in that country's history. The accord re-establishes the Polish Senate, abolished in 1946, and sets up free, competitive elections for this upper house, though the Communists will be guaranteed a 65 percent majority in the Sejm, Poland's lower house. 
Such a move is surprising after years of martial law, but the power of the Polish Workers' Union to shut down the Polish economy was enough for the ruling Communist Party to concede to the union's demands. 
The establishment of free elections, however, went beyond the mere legitimization of Solidarity and set an historic precedent for Iron Curtain countries. The agreement, if it can be fully realized, will give the Polish people a political freedom never before seen in an East bloc nation. 
The guaranteed 65 percent majority for Commu­nists in the Sejm will expire after the first election in June, according to the agreement. The next elec­tion, in 1993, is to be completely free and competitive. If the Soviet elections are any indication, the Polish people will use their voice at the ballot box, and in four years the Communist Party may no longer hold a Parliamentary majority. 
Many Communist hard-liners are adamantly against the reforms, however, and some radical mem­bers of Lech Walesa's own union are accusing him of betraying their cause by accepting compromise. Yet in the era of perestroika and glasnost the reforms may be the basis for lasting change. 
. Though these reforms are a long overdue starting point, they are only a first step on the road to democracy and freedom. Poland must remain open to dialogue to improve relations within its borders and beyond. The United States, which has promised a return of economic aid if Solidarity is legalized, should make good on its offer and can help ensure that the historic accord has a chance for success. 


DOONESBURY 
THANK5 FOR CfJM!NG l!Y, JOAN/8, I CAN'T 7!3/.L YOU HOW MUOI 
!T'5 Ml3ANT TO M/3,., 
\ 

University isolates its community from AIDS 

Dear Editor: sues, our University remains be placed on academic proba­
I was pleased to see that The dormant. AIDS is not an issue tion. Clearly they are not Observer decided to print the that the University can con­making the grade in "prepar­"Doonesbury" comic strip, tinue to ignore. Odds are, ing us for the real world" when despite its offensiveness to the sooner or later a member of the they ignore an issue as editors. I personally found Notre Dame "family" will con­widespread and deadly as nothing offensive in the strip. tract the AIDS virus. Will it be AIDS. Rather, I found it to be blunt then that the University makes and upsetting, much like the an effort to educate the stu­Although the causes of AIDS actual AIDS epidemic. dents and faculty concerning and related issues may not be However, I think this Doones­AIDS, or must we continue to consistent with the Catholic na­bury controversy necessarily gather information from word ture of this school, the Univer­leads to a discussion of a of mouth and comic strips? sity has an obligation, as an in­broader problem--that of Notre stitution of higher learning, to Dame's apparent unwilling­Students at Notre Dame do educate us concerning these is­ness to educate the students engage in sexual intercourse sues. The administration may and faculty concerning AIDS (even Catholic students!), consider this their pink slip. and other sexual issues. despite what the administra­Hopefully, Notre Dame will im­
tion and alumni would like to prove and make the grade, for 
While other leading univer­think. Until AIDS and other our sake. sities talk openly about AIDS sexual issues are discussed in Daniel J. Fahey and distribute information con­an educational, open atmo­Carroll Hall cerning it and other sexual is-sphere, the University should April 5, 1989 

Bianco murder involves brutality, not insanity 

Dear Editor: ease, could not understand the Defendants are able to take 
If Alan Matheney is ac­nature of their crimes, or even advantage of the people's dis­quitted of beating his ex-wife, that the acts were wrong. gust and unwillingness to ac­Lisa Bianco, to death on the cept the sanity of a person who grounds that he is insane, the Currently, the Brawner rule seems like such a monster. In decision will be more than a is used by most states, as well such instances, the insanitymajor setback to the crusade as the Court of Appeals. This defense is used to circumvent for tougher (and better en­rule protects those who, be­justice, not enforce it. forced) domestic violence cause of mental defect or ill­laws. It will be a travesty of ness, are unable to appreciate While I am not a forensic psy­justice and a gross abuse of a the wrongfulness of their con­chiatrist, I can say that there law intended to protect those duct, or to make their conduct are many adjectives to who cannot be held responsible conform to legal standards. describe domestic violence, for their actions. but insane is not one of them. 
Despite the usefulness of The murder of Lisa Bianco was 

Societies have long recog­such rules, there is still a good a premeditated act of brutality. nized that some people cannot deal of room for abuse of the It is normal and acceptable to be held accountable for their insanity defense. Most often, be disgusted by such violent, actions. Defense for the insane the defense is abused in cases sickening crimes. What is not was included in ancient Jewish, of shocking, heinous crimes, acceptable is to automatically 
Greek, and Roman laws. The such as the Bianco murder. dismiss the crime and the cri­first modern insanity law was Psychiatrist Thomas Szaaz minal as insane. the M'Naghten test, which was said of such incidents, "We do written into law in England in not want to understand the Amy Eckert 1834. This law acquitted those thing; it is so horrible we say, Lewis Hall 
who, because of mental dis-'it's crazy."' GARRY TRUDEAU 
A5A MlffT&I<. Of FAa; 7H/3R& 15, 
ANDY, HOW CAN I 

JOAN/13. YOU (J)UW G/V/3 M/3 
HUP YOU 7HROUGH 

50M8THING V&RY PRtOOUS, 
ANYTHING, 
TH/5 'f 15 TH8R& ANY­

50Mf3TH!NG THATAU-7Hl3 fX)(;.­
AN[)Y. ANY­

TOR.5 ANO NU/?S£35 IN 7HI5 1-103­
THING I CAN IXH 
THING AT. .. 

P!TAL. &!TH&I< CAN'T OR WON'T:.,
I 
\ 


April 4, 1989 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Hope, like love, transcends all time; it is a friend, a healer, a maker of dreams.' 
Flavia Weedn 


~-------~---~------·---------­
j 





Accent

Monday, April 10, 1989 page 9 
ABC's 'Coach' has yet to reach its potential 
T 
elevision programming is often like a football game. Clever plays, careful timing, and a good lineup will provide television execu­tives with ratings success and a vic­tory over the other competing net­works. This year, ABC has added a new twist to the old sport; the net­work has put their own "Coach" into the game. 
Joe Bucolo 
To Be 
Continued ... 

ABC airs "Coach" on Wednesdays at 8 p.m. The show stars Craig T. Nelson as Hayden "Coach" Fox, a single parent and head coach of the Minnesota State football team. Other regulars include Christine Armstrong <Shelley Fabares), Coach's love inter­est, Kelly (Clare Carey), Coach's daughter, and Luther (Jerry Van Dyke) and Dawber (Bill Fager­bakke), Coach's assistants. 
The show's premise, a middle-aged single parent coping with raising a daughter, having a relationship with Armstrong, and coaching his team, is an interesting one. It provides plenty of opportunity for new plotlines and shows great potential. 
"Coach" makes an attempt to cap­ture the zany, witty humor that has made "Night Court" and "Cheers" so popular. In one episode, the team loses a game because only ten players were present"()n the field. Throughout that episode, Coach, who is trying to forget the loss, bumps into sarcastic extra characters. 

another guest who quips, "Oh, Coach. 
Nice game. Hey, have you got 11 singles for a 10?" As a punishment, 
Coach leaves the team in the locker room overnight to count to 11 out 
This crazy humor scores time and time again with the audience; however, the time in between these moments seems to drag. The regular humor between Coach and the others seems flat and fumbling com,Pared to the zany comedy of which the show is obviously capable. 
Coach explains the loss of the game to his daughter: ''This is going to happen when you're working with 60 young men who are inexperienced, immature ... and brain dead." One time when Coach is cooking dinner for her very slowly, she says, "I've got finals coming up, Dad.. .in four months." 
In addition to this not up-to-par comedy, the show has another weak point: Kelly. She is annoying and unnecessary. The show does not need her aspect of the show's premise. 
Coach could be a single man with no children and no marital past, and the show would lose nothing. In fact, 
viewers may appreciate the absence of Kelly constantly whining the words, "Oh, Daddy." 
The chemistry between Coach and Armstrong is wonderful. The show could survive on their bickering alone. They are two characters who care deeply for one another but allow their trivial opinions to create some complications (and funny humor). This bickering combined with the naivete of Luther and Dawber is delightful and fulfilling. 

"Coach" is a show with tremendous potential. The writers are headed for a touchdown with all the characters except Kelly. She must develop and mature, or move away and off the show. (Perhaps an episode dealing with her death would be in order ... ) Once producers cure the Kelly prob­lem and fine tune the comedy, "Coach" will be the hilarious, intelli­gent mastermind behind ABC's Wed­nesday night team. 



Reflections on a Mexican rock concert at Rockotitlan 
M 
exico City, with a popu­lation of about twenty million, has to be one of the biggest cultural crossroads in the world. Besides boasting a wealth of domestic talent and tradition, the Distrito Federal attracts top-notch artists from the international scene. I myself am witness to many examples of Mexico City's cultural imports. 
I was a little apprehensive when my friend Martha of­fered to take me to a rock concert, because I had never been to one before. How does one dress for a concert here in Mexico? I decided to dress so as not to draw any atten­tion to myself, opting for a beige sweater, faded Levis, and moccasins. We arrived early, so I had a chance to look around the place. Called Rockotitlan, the room had about the area of Badin Hall's first floor, minus offices. Though dimly lit and smoky, I could make out spray­painted punk figures on the walls, echoed by their living counterparts dressed in black 
BUZZ MC FLATTOP 
Overseas 
Column: 
Melissa Simmermeyer 
and leather, sitting at low tables, smoking cigarettes and drinking. Because I felt like Mary Poppins at a Hell's Angels' rally, I was particu­larly grateful that the band arrived quickly. 
One of the first things I noticed about the tiny stage in the corner (besides the emergency exit) was the gigantic pair of speakers. I wondered if they really needed to be that big for so small a space. The next thing that attracted my attention was the lead singer, who in­troduced the group as Planeta · Pop, recently arrived from Spain. Though famous here for her exquisite voice, I will never forget how she dressed: cropped black hair swooped back, jaunty aviator scarf, white silk blouse with pearls, jeans that must have been painfully tight, and black boots. She apologized for the faulty sound equipment, but I personally thought that an increase in volume could have had tragic conse­quences. Martha's date noted that the beauty of live music is that you can feel it, but I thought it was also nice that I could locate my lungs and sinuses due to sympathetic vibration. 
I noticed that the clientele of Rockotitlan was too cool to actually dance but everyone seemed to be having a great time anyway. The band ful­filled everyone's expectations, and I found to my great surprise that I even knew some of the songs. When Planeta Pop announced their departure, the crowd chanted unanimously "otra, otra" (encore, encore) and the band responded with three more songs. I was disappointed that the night had gone so quickly, but I chalked it up as one more highly successful cul­tural exchange and walked out with a smiling face and ringing ears. 
MICHAEL F. MULDOON 


jflt.L, .:£ W/51{ ~­"//(£. A/J!'i.!NI~fM77cN 
l(j II 70vG.II /65Uf... A
J/EY, 6AR(, fJ/fY !»e.~ 
t.ol cF t./VE.S ~ 
~ t.XX/'-0 5How 771£111 11'1'1&:-sr IN C.CWI'/WI£S 
!NVot-VUJ. 

~ t.¥0V'.:f tr IS. "'fl'rr ti!/V-IN :ootJ( I'VA'ICA f' I 
/ 


-~ --~ -~~­
~-------~----..-----~----~--------------~ ---------~---------~-­
•


Faldo WinS Masters in sudden death over Hoch 
Associated Press 

AUGUSTA, Ga.--Nick Faldo's 25-foot putt for the 1989 Masters title may fade from people's memories. Scott Hoch's two-foot miss for the title on the previous playoff hole will never be forgotten. 
"Between my brain and my hand, the message got criss­crossed," he said. 
And the criss-cross cost him the green jacket. 
In the gathering gloom of early evening at Augusta Na­tional, the Englishman raised his arms in triumph. But with­out two blown short putts by Hoch, Faldo would never have won it. 
First, on the 17th hole of regulation, he missed a three­foot par putt after he had made a great recovery shot to the green. That dropped him into a tie for first and, eventually, led to the playoff. 
Then, on the first playoff hole, he shot one of the memorable misses in golf his­tory. 
With daylight running out, Hoch was just a two-foot par putt away from a green jacket. He stalked it from every possi­ble vantage point. 
"I didn't want to miss an an­gle." he said. "I wasn't ner­vous, not at all. I felt this must be my time." 
But he pulled the putt. The ball lipped out. 
"I'm proud of myself. I have nothing to be ashamed of. I played well this week," said Hoch, winner of three PGA tour titles in an 11-year career. 
The shot matched Faldo's earlier bogey and they went to the next playoff hole, where Faldo rolled in the long one. 
Both drove the fairway in the drizzling rain. Faldo went for the pin, ignoring the pond on the left of the 11th green. He got it about 25 feet below the hole. 
Hoch put his approach to the right, with the ball skipping off the sodden putting surface and running down an embankment. 
He chipped up to about six feet and had that left for par when Faldo ran in the birdie that won the first of the year's four major tests of golfing greatness. 
Faldo, a former British Open champion and eight times a runner-up in tournaments around the world last year, lifted both arms high in the air and howled in triumph when the winning putt found the cup. 
"It means the world to me. Words don't describe this," Faldo said. "I've seen other guys do this. Jack Nicklaus does this. I've sat and watched stuff like this on TV. And then to have it happen, it's a dream. You dream to have it happen and when it does, right before your eyes--ecstasy.'' 
Faldo, playing about an hour in front of the other contenders, put together a spectacular 65 in difficult conditions, com­pleted regulation play in 283 and then sat back and watched while five others gave it a shot down the stretch. 


There was Seve Ballesteros of Spain, the 1988 Masters champion, who had a share of the top at one time or another. But he got a 6-iron shot in the water on the 16th and ceased to be a factor. 
There was Mike Reid, the soft-spoken guy called "Radar" by his fellow pros. He had the lead alone but three­putted the 14th, hit into the water and 15 and he, too, was out of it. 
There was Greg Norman, the flamboyant Australian who has played so well here so often. 
And there was Ben Cren­shaw, "Gentle Ben," trying to gain that second green jacket. 
All made their bids. All came up short. Only Hoch, with a closing 69, 

could match Faldo's 5-under­par total for 72 holes over the rain-slick hills of Augusta. 
Lee Trevino, the 49-year-old who led or shared the lead through the first two rounds, struggled to an 81 in the delayed finish of the third round Sunday morning, then came back with a 69 in the af­ternoorr and finished at 291. 
The Observer accepts classif1eds every business day from 10 a.m until 4 p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 until 3 p m. at the Saint Mary's office. Haggar College. Center. Deadline for next-day ciassifieds is 3 p.m. All class1fieds must


Classifieds 
be prepaid. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day 

NOTICES  FOR RENT  I NEED GRADUATION TIX IN A BIG BIG WAY!!  TICKETS  The ST. ED'S CHARITY CARNIVAL April 23 Stepan Center  VIRILE MALE: want to hook-up with a FERTILE FEMALE and solve the world's  
CALL DAN # 3495  adoption shortage? Name the n1ght and  
$$$$$$$$  room number.  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219-291-7153.  MONEY MONEY MONEY I NEED GRADUATION TIX and I can  The St. Ed's Charity Carnival (If you don't go it means you condone  
CLERKS  make it worth your while,  call  Dan  at  nun-beating)  NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP  
NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks' Cash or Credit available' PANDORA'S BOOK 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 233-2342 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL  NICE FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. 287-6389, 683-8889. HOUSE FOR RENT OVER THE SUMMER-NEAR CAMPUS. 232-3616 FOUR FLAGS FARM BED AND BREAKFAST CONVENIENTLY LO·  M-F 10pm to 5am;5am to 12m 4.25!1r M-F 9am to 4pm 4.0D-tlr Great Little Food Store 12760 US 23 Granger 277-8102 POUGHKEEPSIE, N.Y. Seniors~-if this is your new home after graduation and you need a roommate, give me a call. Pete 2459  3365. HELP!!!! I have a one-way ticket to Hous­ton or the Rio Grande Valley (South Padre Island), Texas to sell. It leaves from Midway at 10:00 on Friday May 12. $150. x3877  lavlnrac ytlrahc s'dets II sslm !'nod  PLAQUES ORDER FORMS AVAILABLE MON-WED DINING HALLS & SENIOR CLASS OFFICE  
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. I LOST/FOUND I FOUND: Set of keys in room 215 O'Shag. A University of Notre Dame Keychain­room 309. Call # 3688 to claim. I LOST MY MOST PRIZED POSSES­SION A GOLD AND DIAMOND HEART  CATED 20 MINS. FROM NO. IDEAL FOR ALL NO ACTIVITIES. 616-471­5711. GRADUATE STUDENT Beautiful room, private bath, laundry, kitchen privileges, security system, 12 mlns. from campus. 272-5989. MALE GRADUATES Furnished rooms, air, kitchen, fridge, 5 min. N. campus. 272-0615.  ACT IN TV COMMERCIALS. NO EXPE­RIENCE. ALL AGES. CHILDREN, TEENS, YOUNG ADULTS, FAMILIES, ETC. HIGH PAY TV ADVERTISING. CALL FOR CASTING INFORMATION. CHARM STUDIOS, (313) 542-8400 EXT. 2283. ATTENTION· HIRING! Government jobs-your area. $17,840-$69,485. Call  I need Grad.tlx. Will pay high $. Call Chris at 2n-6921. ................................................,.,............... Need Grad Tix Will Pay $ Call 2765 NEED GRAD TIX CALL PETE 277-4165 PERSONALS  JJU N IORS-JU N IORS-JU N tORS­JUNIORS.... Save your money, senior trip s1gn ups coming soon !!!!! JJUNIORS-JUNIORS-JUNIORS­JU!-JIORS.... IF YOU GOT A SURVEY ON NOTRE DAME DINING HALLS  GUNGADING AND THE DONGS champ1onsh1p plaques available as well. Judge the Dong Show this Wednesday, 4:30 atStepan. First Iitty (50) volunteer judges receive complimentary SUB dinner passes to the Olive Garden. ..••• SENIORS• ..•• CHICAGO TRIP WED APR 12  
SHAPED NECKLACE. IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL LISA AT 4945 LOST:BLUE NAUTICA JACKET AND SONY WALKMAN-WED. NIGHT AT STEPAN CENTER REWARD-CALL 1616 IF FOUND. NO ?'S found between NOH and psych bid. on tues 45. one goldish 314 loop earring. it doesn't go with my new spring collection so call x4436 to claim. WEDDING RING LOST WEDNESDAY, PROBABLY NEAR HAYES-HEALY. WIDE BAND, SILVER. CALL PROF. SAYRE 239-7124. REWARD  Lovely spacious apartment, con­venient, safe location, accommodate 4-5 students. $200tno. per student, utilities furnished. Kagel's Pent­House Apartment, 602 N. Michigan, 233-2232. 2-BDRM APARTMENT AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER CALL .271-8904 ## Turtle Creek Apt for sublease over sum­mer months. Please call Lisa 284-5270 or M.J 284-4305. .................................. Staying for the summer? Need a place to sleep? Sublease our APT! !I!!! TURTLE  1-602·838-8885. Ext. R6262. GOING TO CHICAGO? I NEED A RIDE THE AFTERNOON OF THURS. APRIL 13 TO O'HARE FOR A 6:00PM FLIGHT..IF YOU CAN HELP CALL ANN AT X4928... FOR SALE CANNONDALE Mtn. Bike, 1 yr. old, ex­ellen! cond., $375-tl.o. Craig 283-3014  hlag ADOPT: Happily married, professional couple wishes to provide wonderful home, secure future, much love for white newborn. Legal: Expenses paid. Call us collect 212-517-2696. FOREIGN STUDENTS Job-Hunting Guide (Rev. 1989). Send $19.951or the step-by-step guide. lvysoft, PO Box 241090, Memphis, TN 38124 SCAP .... The Word of the Future!!! Use it NOW!! SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS  please send them in to us throug Campus Mail. We really appreciate all you help. Jethro, Tull me about yourself. "Triple A Student Painters" now hiring college and high school students tor sum­mer. Good wages. Call 291·2158. 20 yr old established company with 4000% growth over five year period seeks money materialistic people in search of financial independence for up­coming company briefing call: 255-9804 or 258-0518. 4-1 0-89 thru 5-1-89  TIX STILL AVAILABLE SENIOR CLASS OFFICE .....SENIORs•••.. ENGINEERS' WEEK Treasure Hunt CLUE # 1 It's never too far to roam It's our home Away from home. GOOD LUCK II HEH MARY MAHONEY!!! YOU'RE DOING GREAT! KEEP THE FAITH, IT WILL SOON BE OVER! LOVE VA, MOLLY  
.._  LOST: BEIGE GUCCI WALLET, CANVAS & PIGSKIN. LOST AT SENIOR BAR ON THURSDAY BE­TWEEN MIDNIGHT AND 1 AM. PLEASE CALL GARRETT KANEHANN AT 287-5871. REWARD. LOST: BROWN HIPPO WALLET ON NO CAMPUS WEDNESDAY APR. 5. CALL CHRIS BRACKEY 287-5871. REWARD. LOST: A blue and white Wilson golf umbrella. If you found it in Dr. Kuller's 8:00am econ test on Thurs. Please return it to Tracy x4927. FOUND: ONE SET OF KEYS ON SOUTHQUAD BENCH OUTSIDE ALUMNI HALL ON THURS. PLEASE CALL J.C. AT 1001 TO CLAIM.  CREEK' FULLY FURNISHED! call 277­3346. MARION STREET "FRAT HouiiE~·FOR RENT 9person oc­cupancy,2baths,bsktbllcrt pool tb1,3rd lloor bar&party room 3 car garage,fire place,washer&dryr must see this home!call 289-1233 WANTED FRUSTRATED? Need Money? Part time, 13K-53K year. Now seeking highly motivated people for opportunities in manaqement and sales. I need help now! Call Phil 219-232-4783 CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE  Opal and diamond pendant & ring set in gold. Appraised $625, will sell much less. Leave message, 272-7606 Pink frilly infant dresses, like new. Leave message, 272-7606. Technics T.urntable SL·BD2; Marantz Tape Deck SD320; Jay '1910 BUICK CENTURY SPECIAL 76 350$ CALL NOEL 272-65-62 EVENINGS ATTENTION-GOVERNMENT HOMES from $1 (U-repalr). Delinquent tax property. Repossessions. Call 1-602­838-8885 Ext. GH-6262. ATTENTION-GOVERNMENT SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. ·Fords. Mer­cedes Corvettes, Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1-602-838-8885 Ext. A­ PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-343-8373. "JUNIORS: HOW TO FILL OUT THE PROFILE FORM." KITTY ARNOLD OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES. TONIGHT AT 7:00P.M., ROOM 123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. ALL MAJORS WELCOME. "JUNIORS: HOW TO FILL OUT THE PROFILE FORM." KITTY ARNOLD OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES. TONIGHT AT 7:00 P.M. ROOM 123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. ALL MAJORS WELCOME. RIGHT TO LIFE OFFICER ELECTIONS  CAREER DAY CAREER DAY CAREER DAY Saturday April 15, 9am­12noon CCE Lunch will follow from 12-1:30pm. A presentation will be made by Career and Placement Services Among com­panies attending: Bendix, Arthur Ander­sen & Delco Electronics Sponsored by the Society of Women Engineers, sign up at Engineering Student Center. For questions call Colleen # 1308 or Melissa # 43 Need ride to IU for Little 500 Can leave 4119 or 420 X4340 SPROUT!! SPROUT!! HOW VA DOIN'?! BEHAVE.  IT'S TIME FOR THE SWEENEY SISTER TO GET SOME SLEEP! REMEMBER KC, IF YOU GET SICK WE WON'T BE ABLE TO COMPLETE OUR WORLD TOUR AND ACHIEVE OUR GOAL OF DESTROYING VIRILITY! Heh John Howarth and Pat Danahy! You guys have not escaped my wrath! Before the end of the year you will learn the meaning of the word respect! Long live muliebrity! EYE CONTACT BRAND NAME LENSES START AT 19.95 EA. 1-800­255-2020. ELISA DUNN Just lose it.  
WANTED  FOR  AIRLINE  SERVING  6262.  APPLICATIONS WILL BE MAILED  GRACELAND  
SOUTH  BEND.  PLEASE  CONTACT  TURN IN TO ANY OFFICER BY 4112  AT LEAST ONCE:  GRACELAND  
LOST:pearl  ring  somewhere  between  J.GEDRA,  CONTINENTAL  EXPRES  WATERBED  NEED  APP?  PICK  UP  IN  243  THE HANDCUFFED HOOPSTERS  GRACELAND  
NOH  and  Cushing  on  4/7.  If  found,  STANDARD OIL BLDG, CLEVELAND,  QUEEN  SIZE,HEATER,WOOD  SIEGFRIED  FROM HELL...  ...be there!  
PLEASE call x3442  OHIO 44135.  FRAME!!!! if interested call 2n-3346.  


page 10  The Observer  Monday, April 10, 1989  

~----------­
Monday, April 10, 1989 The Observer page 11 

Padres turn triple play in 5-4 win over Houston 
Associated Press ries. The game was played in a 33-degree HOUSTON--Tony Gwynn drove in temperature, and the wind-chill made 
two runs, including the game-winner, it feel as if it were eight degrees. It and Jack Clark added a two-run single snowed two hours before the ge)me and as San Diego rallied to beat Houston the stadium ramps had to be salted 5-4 Sunday in a game which featured a down to accommodate the crowd of triple play by the Padres. 11,387. 
The Padres accomplished the sixth triple play in club history and their first Red Sox 8, Royals 6 since July 31, 1983, in the eighth inning. 
With Kevin Bass on second and Greg KANSAS CITY, Mo.--Ellis Burks 
Gross on first, Ken Caminiti hit a tripled in three runs in six-run seventh ground ball to third baseman Luis inning and Wade Boggs had four hits Salazar who threw to Alomar at second, as the Boston Red Sox rallied to beat 
forcing Gross. the Kansas City Royals 8-6 Sunday for Alomar threw to Clark at first to get their first victory of the season after Caminiti for the second out. Clark then four straight losses. 
threw to catcher Mark Parent who John Dopson, 1-0, got the victory with tagged out Bass, attempting to score 5 2-3 innings of relief, as Boston avoided from second on the play. an 0-5 start that would have been -its 
worst since 1966. 
Indians 4, Yankees 3 NEW YORK--Tom Candiotti allowed Dodgers 4, Braves 2 four hits in seven innings and Pete O'Brien hit his first homer of the season ATLANTA--Pinch-hitter Mickey as the Cleveland Indians defeated the Hatcher and Willie Randolph each hit New York Yankees 4-3 Sunday to com­a sacrifice fly in the 12th inning Sunday plete a three-game sweep. to give the Los Angeles Dodgers a 4-2 For the Indians, it was their first victory over the Atlanta Braves. three-game sweep over New York at Alejandro Pena, 1-0, picked up the Yankee Stadium since May 1966. The victory with three scoreless innings of Yankees have now lost five straight relief. Tim Crews got the Braves out in after beating Minnesota on opening day the 12th for his first save. and have scored a total of only 13 runs 
Rangers 3, Blue Jays 2 AP Photo

in their six games this season. ARLINGTON, Tex.--Reuben Sierra
Athletics 4, White Sox 2 The California Angels beat the Seattle Mariners on Sunday, but the Mariners spoiled Jim 
hit a two-run homer off Tom Henke with 
Abbott's major league debut the previous evening. A look at the first outing for the Angels' 

OAKLAND, Calif.--Dave Stewart one out in the ninth inning Sunday, 
rookie one-hand pitcher appears below.

struck out nine and increased his April giving the Texas Rangers a 3-2 victory
record to 8-0, leading the Oakland Ath­York Mets beat the Montreal Expos 2-1 Seattle Mariners 13-5.
over the Toronto Blue Jays. letics past the Chicago White Sox 4-2 Sunday to avert a three-game sweep. Cardinals 15, Phillies 3 
Sunday. Orioles 8, Twins 1 Giants 9, Reds 1
Stewart, 2-0, allowed eight hits, MINNEAPOLIS--Frank Viola lost CINCINNATI--Matt Williams hit a PHILADELPHA--Pedro Guerrerostruck out nine and walked one. He has his second straight start, allowing a grand slam for his first hit of the and Jose Oquendo drove in four runs won his last three starts against the three-run homer to Randy Milligan and season, leading the San Francisco each to lead a 19-hit attack Sunday as White Sox, allowing two earned runs in two-run homer to Cal Ripken Sunday Giants past the Cincinnati Reds 9-1 on the St. Louis Cardinals scored their28 innings. 
as the Baltimore Orioles beat the Min­Sunday. most runs in two years and beat the nesota Twins 8-1. Philadelphia Phillies 15-3.
Cubs 8, Pirates 3 Angels 13, Mariners 5

CHICAGO--Rick Sutcliffe pitched a Mets 2, Expos 1 St. Louis had not scored that manyseven-hitter and struck out 11 Sunday, MONTREAL--Kevin Elster doubled ANAHEIM, Calif.--Tony Armas and runs since a 15-5 victory over Montreal leading the Chicago Cubs past the Pit-home the tie-breaking run with one out Dante Bichette each hit two-run homers on June 27, 1987. It was the most runs tsburgh Pirates 8-3 in frozen Wrigley in the ninth inning and Dwight Gooden in the first inning Sunday and the Cal­against the Phillies since a 15-6 loss to Field for a sweep of the three-game se-allowed three hits over eight as the New ifornia Angels went out to rout the Los Angeles on Aug. 21, 1985. 

---------------------------,I
1I SMC Shaheen Bookstore 1 Abbott flops in major league debut 
Associated Press "I'm a little disappointed slider are enough to win. But

I11------------------------~
Come in and see our new spring items.
I that things didn't go a little bet­he is still learning the curve I ANAHEIM, Calif.-Jim Ab­ter," he said. "There were and changeup he needs to win bott lost because he had just some things to build on. But in the majors.
I Brin~ this Ad and receive 1 0 °/o off all
I one pitch, not one hand. overall, I didn't do as many And against Seattle, Abbott I Abbott's professional debut things as I'd like to." had difficulty throwing his fizzled Saturday night, undone Mainly, Abbott didn't get the slider for strikes. That left him 
I * tank tops
I by trouble that could stop any ball over the plate. with only a fastball that is good, I 21-year-old rookie. He threw 83 pitches, just 47 but not great, and big-league His control was off, his for strikes. He walked three, hitters can hit anything if they 

I * T-shirts 
nerves acted up and he had one intentionallly, and struck know what is coming.

I 
some bad luck. Two errors hurt out no one. He also threw a wild "We got to him early and got 

I 
I * shorts him and so did a broken-bat pitch that set up two first­him to throw the kind of pitches I single with the bases loaded. inning runs. we wanted," said Harold When it was over, he had al­"Today, maybe my mind Reynolds, who took a called
I offer good thru April 15. 
lowed six runs on six hits in 4 wasn't as clearly focused as I strike to open the game and 2-3 innnings, although three would've wanted," he said. then singled. "He throws hard




L--------------------------• 
runs were unearned. The "There was definitely some and has good stuff, but he has Seattle Mariners, who began nervousness." to stay ahead in the count." 

APARTHEID AWARENESS WEEK April 10-13 
the night as the worst-hitting Abbott has always had con­Abbott got two strikes on justteam in the major leagues, beat trol difficulty, but in college 
five of the 24 batters he faced. 
Abbott and the California An­and the Olympics, a 90 mile­The Mariners seemed onto

The South African government has desig­
gels 7-0. per-hour fastball and a hard him, swinging and missing on 



nated ten geographical areas within its coun­
try as "homelands" to serve as reservations 
TO A COUPLE OF

for Africans. In 1986, 13 million Africans, or 52% of the African population lived in these 

GOOD LOOKING 

ten bantustans. All blacks, whether living in 
GUYS ON THEIR

these bantustans or not, are considered by the apartheid regime not as South African citi­

8-DAVS. 

zens, but as "bantustan" citizens. Therefore, 

NADER, LOAD

not one of South Africa's 25 million blacks is a citizen of that country. 

HAVE A 

Find out about Apartheid from those who have lived under it 

GOOD ONEI 

just two pitches. 
"I think he uncharacteristi­cally was more nervous than he's ever been before," Angels manager Doug Rader said. "That's understandable. He got the ball up early and was overthrowing a bit." 
Abbott became the 15th player, 10 of them pitchers, since 1965 to begin his pro career in the majors, although all except Dave Winfield, Bob Horner and Pete Incaviglia eventually were sent to the minors. 
A crowd of 46,847 that in­cluded his parents from Flint, Mich., turned out to get Ab­bott's answers to how-does-he­do-it and can-he-do-it. 

,­
~ ~ ~ ~ 
AP Photo. 

York Rangers 4-3 to complete a sweep, Chicago beat Detroit 3-2, Minnesota beat St. Louis 5-4 and Vancouver beat Calgary 5-3. 
---~ ---~-~-~-. -~ -~ ­
Monday, April 10, 1989
page 12 The Observer 

SPORTS BRIEFS 

Squash tournament sign-ups will be Thursday, April 13, at 5 p.m. in the NVA office for the tourney to be held Friday, April14 through Sunday, April16. -The Observer 
A squash clinic featuring Pedro Galatas, the former No.2 junior in Spain, will be held Tuesday, April12, at 4:30 
p.m. on Joyce ACC courts 1 and 2. -The Observer 

JordanJammercaptains'meetingwillbeheldTuesday, Aprilll, at 7 p.m. at the Joyce ACC basketball courts. Bring team name and $3 if unpaid. Five teams are still needed. Call 277-1180 for information. -The Observer 
lnterhall wrestling matches will be held Tuesday, April 11, at 7 p.m., in the Joyce ACC. Participants must attend a weigh-in Monday, April10, at 6 p.m., in the NVA office. -The Observer 
Mud Volleyball workers and scorekeepers are needed. Call Ed Brooks at x3271 for more information. -The Observer 
SMC-ND lacrosse will practice today at 8 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
An informational meeting for anyone interested in joining the windsurfing club on Wednesday, April 12, at 7 p.m., in Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune. 1990 officers will be chosen. call Carter Thomas at 289-1233 for more information. -The Observer 
Mud Volleyball schedules have been posted in the SUB Office on the second floor of LaFortune. The first round of games will begin Friday, April14. Any teams that have not paid should get its money to Ed Brooks, 213 Keenan, by Thursday, April13. -The Observer 
SMC intramural tennis tournament will be held Friday and Saturday, April 14-15. Divisions include open, advanced, beginner and faculty-staff. The entry deadline is Wednesday, April 12, at 5 p.m., at Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 


USA dumps France in Davis Cup tennis 
Rematch with West Germany is next 
Associated Press 

Two years ago, West Ger­many handed the United States a humiliating defeat in the Davis Cup. This summer, the United States will have a chance to avenge the loss. 
Boris Becker beat Milan Srejber 6-3, 6-4, 6-3 Sunday to give defending champion West Germany a 3-2 victory over Czechoslovakia in their Davis Cup quarterfinal at Prague. 
The United States clinched a victory over France on Satur­day night when Ken Flach and Robert Seguso beat Yannick Noah and Guy Forget in doubles at San Diego. Andre Agassi beat Noah 6-3, 7-6 (9-7) Sunday to give the United States a 4-0 lead, and John McEnroe tried to complete a sweep in the final match against Henri Leconte. 
West Germany will meet the United States in the semifinals July 21-23. In 1987, West Ger­many beat the United States in a relegation match that forced the U.S. out of the main tourn­ament for a year. 
In the other semifinal, Sweden will meet Yugoslavia. 
Stefan Edberg beat Horst Skoff 6-3, 6-2, 6-1 to clinch Sweden's 3-2 victory over Austria, while teen-ager Goran Ivanisevic completed Yugos­lavia's 4-1 win over Spain by downing Javier Sanchez 7-5, 6­1. 
Czechoslovakia had taken a 2-1lead over West Germany on Saturday after Srejber and 
Petr Korda beat Becker and Eric Jelen in doubles. But Carl­Uwe Steeb evened the series by beating Karel Novacek 6-3, 6-4, 6-4 in Sunday's first match and
-Becker clinched the victory by overpowering Srejber. "It's very difficult to win against Czechoslovakia in 
Prague before 12,000 of their supporters," West German captain Nikki Pilic said. "We didn't feel too well after losing the doubles and we knew we would have to show on Sunday how strong mentally we are." 
After winning the opening set in 31 minutes, Becker double­faulted twice to give Srejber two break points in the second game of the second set. But the two-time Wimbledon champion came back to win the game and the set. 
"After that (second) double­fault, I really had to concen­trate," Becker said. " but I held my serve and that was probably the decisive moment in the match." 
Srejber served 15 aces in the indoor match, six more than Becker. But he didn't capitalize on opportunities to break the West German. 



FREE 

TANNING 

Mishawaka Indian Ridge Plaza (Next to Venture) Hours: Daily 9-8 Grape Rd. Sat. 9-6 277-7946 Sun. 11-5 

I {;hk>ago llalrCutting Co. 


Andre Agassi helped the United States Davis Cup team eliminate France in Davis Cup play last weekend at San Diego. The USA team next faces West Germany, which defeated the Americans two years ago. 





NEHT WEEK 
AT NUA • • • 
BIKE TOUR APRIL 16 TR I CHI CHURN RND SWORD APRIL 10 & 11 IRISH SPRING RUN APRIL 15 BIKE CLINIC APRIL 8 

APRIL 12 DEADLINES 
*** TERM TENNIS *** PUTTING CONTEST *** *** OPEN SOCCER *** 


Monday, April 10, 1989 
AP: UM to select Fisher 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich.­Steve Fisher, who in 20 remarkable days guided Michigan to the NCAA bas­ketball championship, will be named coach of the Wol­verines at a news conference Monday, The Associated Press learned Sunday. 
The move will come one week after the 44-year-old Fisher coached the Wol­verines to the national title with a 80-79 overtime victory over Seton Hall. 

Sources close to the team, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said Sunday . that Fisher was the only can­didate interviewed by Bo Schembechler, the football coach who also is athletic director. 
The Observer page 13 
Women's golf 14th at IU Invite 
Special to The Observer Dame shot a 747. lowed by Alison Wojnaas (93, The tournament originally 92), Roberta Bryer (104, 88), 
The Notre Dame women's had been scheduled to last 54 Pandora Fecko (95, 100), golf team placed 14th out of 15 holes, but rain shortened it to Melissa Houk (103, 95) and teams in last weekend's In­36 holes. Heidi Hansan (102, 102). diana Invitational at the In­diana University Golf Course in Notre Dame shot a 379 on the The medalist fot the tourna­Bloomington. first day, and the Irish lowered ment was Indiana's Debbie 
Host school Indiana won the their score to 368 on the final Lee, who shot a 36-hole total of tournament with a 36-hole total round of competition. 150. of 620. Northern Illinois placed Kris Lazar led the Irish with Notre Dame next plays in the second with a 656, and Iowa a 182 (89 the first day, 93 the Lady Buckeye Classic at Ohio finio:hprl thirrl with a 662. Notre second day). Lazar was fol-State University this weekend. 





ares 

~tines. 
Nezr York Citr Seattle Phoenix $99 roundtrip $99 roundtrip $99 roundtrip 
RJrf ltluderdale Los Angeles $99 roundtrip $99 roundtrip 
Aspecial offer for students,
only for American Express·Cardmembers. 
If you want to go places, it's time for the American Express® Card. 
Because now you can take advantage of new travel privileges on Northwest Airlines onlyforfull-time students who carry the American Express Card 
Travel privileges that offer: .~ 7Wo $99 roundtrip tickets-fly to many of NORTiiWEST the more than 180 cities served by North-AIRLINES west in the contiguous 48 United States. LOOK 10 us Only one ticket may be used per six-month period. 
SpecialQuarterlyNort!JuRst Destination Discounts 
throughout1989-up to 25% off most available fares. 
5,000 bonus miles in Northwest's WORLDPERKS® 
free travel program-where only 20,000 miles gets 
you afree roundtrip ticket to anywhere Northwest flies in the contiguous 48 United States or Canada-upon 
Apply Now: 1-800-942-AMEX 

enrollment through this special student offer. 
And, of course, you'll enjoy all the exceptional benefits and personal service you would expect from American Express. 
The only requirements for privileged travel: you must be aCardmember, you must be afull-time stu­dent, and you must charge your Northwest Airlines tickets with the Card.* 
Getting the Card is easier than ever because now you can apply by phone. Just calll-800-942-AMEX. We'll take your application and begin to process it right away. What's more, with our Automatic 
Approval offers, you can qualify now while you're still in school. 
Apply now. Fly later -for less. 

*Fare is for roundtrip travel on Northwest Airlines. Tickets must be purchased within 24 hours after making reservations. Fares are non-refundable and no itinerary changes may be made after purchase. Seats at this fare are limited and may not be available when you call. Travel must be completed by certificate expiration date and may not be available between cities to which Northwest does not have direct connections or routings. City fuel tax surcharges not included in fare from Boston ($2. 50), Chicago ($5.00) and Florida cities ($2.00). 
e ~ Certain blackout dates and other restrictions may apply. For complete offer details, calll-800-942-AMEX. Current student Cardmembers automatically receive two $99 vouchers in the .., Amenc.on E..,.... compony mail. © 1989 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. 
--~-~----------~--------­
page 14 The Observer Monday, April 10, 1989 

ND softball finishes 3rd at MCC tourney 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame softball team finished third in the Mid­west Collegiate Conference tournament last weekend at In­dianapolis. 
Notre Dame (14-13) won three of its five games in the tournament. The Irish defeated Butler 8-7, Loyola 4-3 in eight innings and Dayton 2-0, but lost 1-0 to Detroit 1-0 in eight in­nings and 3-0 to Saint Louis. 
"It's disappointing," said Irish coach Brian Boulac. "We thought that we could win, and we felt we could compete with these teams. 
"But if you look at it objec­tively, this is our first year, and we've come a long way since the beginning of the season." 
Detroit won the tournament, and Saint Louis placed second of the seven conference teams. 
Freshman pitcher Melissa Linn got the decision in all of Notre Dame's games. She pitched a four-hitter against 

Melissa Linn 
Detroit, but the Irish only coula manage two hits in their own right. 
Megan Fay led the Irish over Butler with two hits and one run batted in. Rachel Carlson and Laurie Sommerland each had two hits against Loyola, and Carlson had two RBI. Dawn Boulac's sixth-inning single broke a scoreless tie in the win over Dayton. 
Notre Dame next plays Tues­day against Saint Mary's. 

Bookstore Basketball XVIII ready to begin second week of action 
Friday's Results Stepan 1 
4:00 -The Return of the Mad Latin Lover over Joey Can't Pass... by 11 
4:45 -Josie and the Pussycats over 5 Ineffective Guys by 13 
5:30 -Mother Goose over Billy Bob and 4 other 
birthcontrol... by forleit Stepan 2 
4:00 -The Archy Juggernaut over 5 Guys Who Aren't afraid to wear Tutus by 10 
4:45 -Freudian Slip over Weeble Wobbles by 6 
5:30 -We Double Pump Before We Shoot over Sal-man Rushie and 4 other ... by 19 
Stepan 3 
4:00 -Freedom Rock over The Shockers by forleit 
4:45 -Four Skins and a Shirt over Solid Frustration by 14 
5:30 -Nag and the Winners over We Love Elvis by 
19 Stepan 4 
4:00 -4 Men and a Baby over Bud & the 4 Tall Boys by 19 
4:45 -0-3, The Final Chapter... over The Endoplas­mic Reticulum by 10 
5:50 -Shirpa's Army over Censored Team £262 by 2 
Stepan 5 
4:00 -lggy Pop at the Buzzer over Mike Karl & 3 Trumpeteers... by 7 
4:45 -Upright Organs over The Best Looking Team in the World ... by forleit 
5:30 -3 Basketball Terms We Couldn't Print over 
Laserjocks by 19 Stepan 6 
4:00 -4 Men and the Red-headed Stepchild over Axe-wielding Maniacs by 9 
4:45 -We Don't Know over Too H1gh to Sky by 4 
5:30 -Betty's SC over Violent Bricklayers by 8 
Bookstore 9 
4:00 -Lotuses over Club Q and the Love Doll by 15 
4:45 -The Rim Greepers over We're the 5 Best Reasons To Break Parietals by 10 
5:30 -Anklebangers over 5 Generals by 1 0 
Bookstore 10 

4:00 -We Got Cut From Adworks over We'll be Lucky If We Score 10 by 5 
4:45 -Malodorous Bad Athletes over Nightingales by 7 
5:30 -The Monsters... the Disciples... over Regis 
Philbin's Disciples... by 4 Lyons 11 
4:00 -Bring Back Harry Kalas over Splinter. A Ra­quetball racket... by 6 
4:45 -Losers of the Week over Sid & The Cheeseheads by 3 
5:30 -Auughlff... over The Board Bangers by 9 Lyons 12 
4:00 -Taller Lying Down over A Goat, a Lamb & 3 Other Sacrifices... by 7 
4:45 -Howie's Heros over 4 Guys & a Chick with Less Chance... by 9 
5:30 -Red Snapper over Tony Brooks, Ricky Watters & 3 Other.. by 14 
Monday's Games Bookstore 9 

4:00 -English Muffets vs. Murphy's Men 
4:45 -Barry Switzer, Jimmy Johnson & 3.. vs. Kitty Dukakis & 4 Others ... 
5:30 -Liquid Lunch vs. Not a Chance in Hell 
6:15 -T.D.'s Brown Rap vs. Cavanaugh Fun Warriors 
and Rob Bookstore 10 
4:00 -Fletch on Ice vs. Andre's Seven 
4:45 -The Lollipop Boys vs. The Meph1stophelian Meatuses 
5:30 -You Win vs. 5 Larry Birds Who Can't Shoot 
6:15 -Murph Can't Dnnk vs. We are better than a 
Sharp Stick in the Eye lyons 11 
4:00 -Wag's Team vs. Four Men and Their Red­headed Stepchild 
4:45 -Right Here vs. Bumblebees II 
5:30 -B.V. Dewants vs. Darwin's Failure 
6:15 -We Lost our Luggage in Locherb1e vs. We 
Might Act Crazy, but... Lyons 12 
4:00 -Doob1e Brothers vs. Dan Quayle. Digger Phelps, & 3 Other Guys... 
4:45 -Duke and Dongs vs. Spot us 10 5:30 -With Ourselves vs. Spudd Webb & 4 Other Short Guys 
6:15 -A Really Bad Cough vs. Get Up! Stepan 1 
4:00 -The Fugitive Guys Finale vs. Upright Organs 
4:45 -3 Cheaters & 2 Drunks vs. Digger Phelps & 4 Other Guys Who Can't Win ... 
5:30 -Sweet Leaf vs. Red Snapper 
6:15 -Air Satan & the Disciples of Doom vs. Gulli-
Bulls Stepan 2 
4:00 -Music Master 9 ... vs. 4 Long Cookies & a Chocolate Chip 
4:45 -One Stag & 4 Stallions vs. 5 Guys. no height. no talent, no chance 
5:30 -Abu Nidal and the Card Carrying Community vs. Chestnut Mousse Lightning 
6:15 -Stanford 'A' vs. Raul Gonzalez Stepan 3 
4:00 -Sly & the Family Stone vs. Air Borden 
4:45 -E.T. & the Lincoln Logs vs. Boink 
5:30 -Train and the Fuzzbusters vs. Pete Kern & 4 Other Guys... 
6:15 -Only Girls can Beat Us vs. Lovable Asparagus Stepan 4 
4:00 -We thought we were play1ng chess vs. 5 Hodgemasters 
4:45 -Paranoid Basilmitt & the 4 Stripes vs. Hoopsters lrom Hell 
5:30 -Beer vs. We Got the Tools but Not the Talent 
6:15 -4 Guys & a Cute Ballhandler vs. Men with the 
Key Stepan 5 
4:00 -Corporate Ra1ders vs. 3 Basketball Terms We Coufn't Print 
4:45 -Pink Steel vs. The Younger the Better 
5:30 -The Keltic Savants vs. Air Force ROTC 
6:15 -Stoney & the Friday Night Wrecking Crew vs. 
The Schmools Stepan 6 
4:00 -Ebert & the Rockers vs. Dan Quayle, Jane Fonda, & 3 Others 
4:45 -The Fresh Five vs. The Dream Machine 
5:30 -Orange Blossom Special got Derailed by Jeff vs. Return of the B1g Men .. 
6:15 -Four Guys Who Like Girls & a Dillonite vs. Red Cross Medical Express 


Kenyon 
continued from page 16 
of six man-down situations. 
"I think Tom Duane played a big game for us, and that was a boost," Corrigan said, "but it's kind of a trade-off, with our defense playing as well as they are. Both Tom's play and the defense enhanced each other.'' 
The Irish offense also came up with impressive statistics that showed in the second high­est goal output of the season. Notre Dame shot nearly 50 per­cent (14-of-32) and disrupted 7 of 20 Kenyon clearing at­tempts, leading to several scores. 
Corrigan said that the team usually aims for a 35 percent shooting game. The Irish had shot close to only 20 percent en­tering the game before explod­ing with the potent attack. 
"The guys have put in a lot of work the last few weeks working on their shooting," he said. "That says a lot (for the good shooting against Kenyon), and you also have to look at the quality of the shots we had. A lot of the goals came off unsettled situations." 
Such "unsettled situations" are lacrosse's equivalent to basketball's fastbreak, and the Irish broke out for five key transition goals in the. game. Particularly notable was the third goal of the game, scored by Brian McHugh with 5: 17 to play in the first quarter. 
On that score, senior tri­captain Doug Spencer knocked the ball out of a Kenyon players stick as he attempted to clear midfield. Sophomore Chris Rowley then scooped up the loose ball and passed it downfield to classmate John Titterton. Titterton then passed to freshman Mike Sul­livan, who was streaking towards the Kenyon goal. Sul­livan beat his man for the score. 
The Irish never looked back from there, scoring four con­secutive goals to take the big first quarter lead. 
Notre Dame travels to Lake Forest Wednesday before playing at Denison Saturday­They then return home April 22 against Ohio Wesleyan. 


Smart 
Help your parents


get throughcollege. 
,Just thinking about college tuition is 
enough to make most parents break into 
a sweat. 
But can you blame them? When you 
consider the cost of tuition. books, 
dorms-not to mention pizza parties­
you're talking big bucks. 
Which is why you should do some 
talking. Like telling your parents about 
the Education Loan Programs at 
Manufacturers Hanover Trust. 
At MHT, not only do we participate in all three Federally guaranteed loan programs, but we also work with state and national agencies and can make guaranteed loans in all 50 states. 
In practically no time at all. 
In a matter of minutes, MHT Student Loan Processors can program your information into our computerized loan­processing system. 
Within 24 hours, the Bank will get a decision from the Guarantee Agency. It's that simple. Better still, with MHT your parents will get all the money they need from one source. 
Example: If your folks need more money than government sources will give them, we can offer them tailor-made payment plans through The Education Loan Program, Educational Lines of Credit or Monthly Budget Program and Pre-Payment Programs that make it easy for your parents to fund themselves. (The Education Loan Program, Monthly Budget and Pre-Payment Programs are offered through the Tuition Plan, a company of Manufacturers Hanover.) 
Once you get a loan from us, you can be sure it'll stay with us. Because we've never sold education loans to other banks (unless the borrower asked us to). 
So if you need money for school, call 1-800-MHT-GRAD and get yourself an MHT Education Loan Application. 
Then when your folks ask you about tuition, at least you'll have an answer. "No sweat." 
The Consumer Banking Group 
Memher FDIC. Gl Equal Opportunity Lender.© 19BB Manufacturers Hanover Trust. All rights reserved. 

Monday, April 10, 1989 
The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 
7 p.m. Communication and Theatre film "On the Town," Annenberg Auditorium. 
7 p.m. Adult Children of Alcoholics meet tbnight upstairs in the esc. 
7 p.m. Career and Placement services presents "Juniors: How to Fill Out the Profile Form," by Kitty Arnold, Room 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
9 p.m. Communication and Theatre film "Forty Guns," An­nenberg Auditorium. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
4 p.m. "Beautiful Music in Haydn's Operas," presented by Professor Mary Hunter from Bates College, Room 124 Crowley Hall. 
4 p.m. AT&T Visiting Scholar series "Biology and Spirit in Eskimo Tribal Healing," by Professsor Edith Turner, Uni­versity of Virginia, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
4:15p.m. Kellogg Institute and Economics lecture "State & Industry in the South in the 1980s: Analytical and Policy Issues," by Ajit Singh, Room 131 Decio Faculty HalL 
7:30 p.m. Theology lecture "Architecture as Gathering and Embodiment," by Christian Norberg-Schultz from Oslo, Nor­way, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Grilled Reuben Tarragon Chicken Oven Fried Chicken Lasagna Beef Stir Fry Cheese Souffle Cheese Ravioli Deli Bar 
COMICS 
49 Arboreal quakers 51 Most mawkish 56 Munch 57 Turn topsy-turvy 59 Pac-1 O's parent org. 60 Towel word 61 Traced via loud speaker 
62 Kind of bean 63"-Rider," 1969film 64 Optimistic 65 Jabbers 
DOWN 1 Round Table knight 2 
Plus 31n­(unmoved) 
4 Pacific sharks 5 Black Maria, tor one 
6 Handwriting on the wall 
1 Paddy grow1h 
8 Disapproving sound 9Mail 10 All inclusive Need," 1965 song 

15 Hint or slight trace 21 Batter's ploy 230none's­(alert) 25 Wraparound garment 26 Jeopardy 27 Sheepish 28 Foggy days in London town 29 Fervor 
30 Eucharistic plate 32 Small, red-eyed songbird 33To-(just 
right) 38 Gives pep to 39 "There's a­
Soup," Sellers­Hawnfilm 41 Great, in Granada 42 Betty, the 30's cartoon vamp 
47 Full of gossip 48 Sidekick 49 Have a sore spot 50 Strawberry's 
field 51 Desert lily 52 Individuals 53 S A. country 54 Went under 55 License plates 58 Average 

BLOOM COUNTY 
ACROSS 
1 Fish or singer 5 Fermenting agent 
9 Rush letters 13 Jumble 14 Wrong 16 Toss the dice 17 Alphabet quartet 18 Tropical lizard 19 Intractable one 20 Pitcher's 
throwing arm 22 Dream land? 24 Games' partner 25 Wear with an air 26 Drop by 29 Rcom 

31 Eggs tor Cato 34 Track-meet unit 35 Cyclades island 36 Pick lead-in 37 Estuary streams 38 Squelch 39 Mentor, Hindu 
style 40 Electees 41 Big name in 
bridge 42 Bad dog 43 Delibes or 
Durocher 44 Repenter's 
activity 45 Entertainer Bean 46 Not likely 48 Manute of the 
N.BA 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

BERKE BREATHED THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


~ \ 
BILL WATTERSON 
/lEY.' Jusr 
\

I TillNl( '(OO'RE toiNG BfCK 
WJ.IAT Do 'iOO 
!XlWtl H£R£.?t 


&11981 C'nromcle features

4-10 
D•slribuled by Umversal Press Synd•cate 

"We're here, Eric! Antarctica! ... Bottom of the world!" 

' CALVIN AND HOBBES 
.----------, 
GafCHA!! 

© 1989 Uruversar Press Synd1cate 


Apartheid Awareness Week 
Mon April10 Tues April 11 Wed April12 Thurs April13 film" Witness To Apartheid" Divestment Panel film: "Cry Freedom" discussion with 7pmCSC Discussion 8 & 10:15pm Cush­Mr. Donald Woods talk: Ezra Sigwela featuring Prof. Peter Ing author of "Biko", former 11 yr prisoner in South Walshe, Dean David "Asking for Trouble" Africa Link, Prof. James basis for film Cry 
Carberry Freedom 8pm 
..., 
Cushing 
$2 tickets LaFortune Info 
Desk 
• 


Sports
page 16 Monday, April 10, 1989 
Bookstore's 'golden moment' 
Great-grandfather ends 41-year basketball sabbatical 
By FRANK PASTOR Four teams took scoring in­shot 2-of-22 in the game and Assistant Sports Editor competence to a new level looked like they would rather Friday, losing by a be in Graceland than on the 
Bookstore's first-ever great­tournament-high 19 points as Stepan courts. grandfather played Thursday the Bookstore field was cut to Steve Shaw of The and 30 more teams were 512 teams. Monsters ... The Disciples of the eliminated Friday as the first Death Ball was high-point man week of Bookstore Basketball Salman Rushdie and Four on the day, hitting 12 buckets XVIII drew to a close. Other Guys Under the Gun fell in The Monsters' 21-17 victory 
Triphon Lema, Jr., a local 21-2 to We Double Pump Before over Regis Philbin's Disciples fireman and great­We Shoot, who nevertheless of Love. grandfather, played in his first shot an incredible 21-of-28 from "It was a fast-paced game, organized game in 41 years the field. Steve Heddinger tight for the most part until the Thursday when his Hosers of scored 10 baskets to lead We last few minutes," said Shaw. the Firehouse lost 21-9 to Whis­Double Pump. "That's when the Death Ball's key Ray and Four Other Guys "We relied a lot on our de­influence started to kick in." that Can't Score. Lema became fensive rebounding and our fast the first great-grandfather break," said Heddinger, who The Death Ball, according to ever to play in a Bookstore admitted that most of his points Shaw, is an old basketball that game. were scored on layups. was transformed· into a 
Three Basketball Terms We beastlike figure. It is an "exist­
"They were good, as much Couldn't Print slipped past ing force" which The Monsters as I expected," said Lema. both the censors and the Laser­take to every game to control "We knew we couldn't run-and­jocks in another 21-2 drubbing. the action and intimidate their gun against them. Our zone Laserjocks managed a mere opponents. defense worked good, but it four rebounds in the contest. NOTES: In the first week of didn't work all the time." Four Men and a Baby shot play, 74 games were decided by 
Lema, who enthusiastically 21-of-30 in disposing of Bud and 10 or more points, 20 by three agreed to play when ap­the Four Tall Boys 21-2. Three or less and 16 by for­proached by his friends at the of Bud's five players managed feit. .. 4,669 points have been firehouse, scored one point in a combined three shots be­scored in the first 144 the contest. tween them for the game. games... The average margin 
"It was a real challenge for Nag and the Winners lived up of victory in those 144 games me," said Lema. "I've been on to their name by destroying We has been 9.69 points per game a 41-year sabbatical." Love Elvis 21-2. We Love Elvis (21.06 ppg to 11.37 ppg). 
Lacrosse team routs Kenyon 14-7 to extend its winning streak to five 
By PETE LaFLEUR 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team returned to "the basics" Saturday, dominating every aspect of a 14-7 victory over Kenyon College at Edward W. "Moose" Krause Field. 
Notre Dame (5-3) stretched its winning streak to five games, while Kenyon lost for only the second time in seven games. The Irish dominated in ground balls (59-35) and won 17 of 23 faceoffs on the way to securing many key transition situations. 
"Kenyon was playing with a lot of confidence, and they are a good team," said Irish coach Kevin Corrigan, "but we played this week in practice with confidence that we haven't had before, and that showed in the game." 
Senior tri-captain John Olmstead led the Irish with two Special to The Observer the score with a bases­goals and five assists, while loaded walk. Dan Peltier junior Brian McHugh and 
Ed Lund hit a three-run later grounded out with the freshman Mike Sullivan each homer and reached base bases loaded to get his fourth chipped in four goals. Fresh­safely in all seven of his gamewinning RBI of the man goalie Tom Duane re­plate appearances Sunday to season. corded 16 saves in his second power the Notre Dame Mike Coffey (3-0) earned start. Irish defensemen Kevin "Our defenseive midfielders baseball team to a 3-2, 12-3 the victory with 3 1-3 innings The Irish started fast with O'Connor and Dave Barnard did a great job shutting down doubleheader sweep of Mid­of shutout relief. sophomore John Capano's goal virtually shackled Kenyon's their middies, and everything west Collegiate Conference In the second game, Notre 20 seconds into the first quar­leading attackmen, Terry Mar­they tried to throw at us, we foe Xavier at Cincinnati, Dame scored five-runs in the ter. They then scored two goals tin and Jeff Alpaugh. The shut down pretty well. Ohio. seventh to break a 3-3 tie. in the last 30 seconds of the Lords' attack duo combined for "I think the communication 
Lund's homer and Frank quarter to take a commanding four goals and three assists in between the midfielders and 
The doubleheader opened Jacobs' two-run blast high­6-1lead into the second period. last year's 7-6 Irish overtime the defense was a lot better the MCC season for both lighted the outburst. "It was really important for win. than it has been, and that Notre Dame (20-6 overall) Notre Dame added four us to get out on top of them ear­Martin settled for three as­helped us work more as a total and Xavier (6-20), which runs. ly," said Corrigan. sistss Saturday, and Alpaugh unit," Barnard continued. 
both play in the conference's Mike Passilla (3-1) got the The Notre Dame offense scored only one goal. "Everyone seemed to have his East Division. victory, allowing one earned balanced seven first-half goals The Irish defense adjusted to head in the game.Xavier outhit Notre Dame run in six innings of work. with seven second-half scores, everything Kenyon had to of­Duane, staring his second 9-5 in the first game, but the Notre Dame has won six several coming off "fast­fer, according to Barnard. game, saved 16 of 30 KenyonMusketeers left 10 men on of its last seven games, break" situations. The defense, "Kenyon attacked us in a shots, including 10 stops in the 
.... base. while Xavier has lost 14 con­meanwhile, held the opposition pretty well rounded way," said second half. He also directed a With Xavier leading 2-1 in secutive contests. under eight goals for the fourth Barnard. "They looked unit that cleared the zone on 7 the fifth inning, Irish The two teams play an­straight game and has not al­primarily to jam the ball down of 11 attempts and held on four pinchhitter Paul Lang ~ed other doubleheader today. lowed more than ten goals in a the middle and then they tried game all season. to do 'middie jabs.' see KENYON I page 14 








