-----------------------------------------~-----------------------------------~ 

VOL. XXII, NO. 129 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Over 150,000 protest for more freedom in China 
Associated Press 
BEIJING-More than 150,000 students and workers calling for democracy pushed through police lines Thursday and marched cheering and singing through central Beijing in com­munist China's biggest protest ever. 
Workers by the thousands joined the students, giving them popsicles and bread in their strongest act of support in 11 days of protests. 
Beijing residents escorted the students on bicycles and foot and tried to shield them from soldiers and police, who had issued harsh warnings against marches. 
But the security forces were unarmed, and although they pushed fiercely against ad­vancing students in a vain ef­fort to halt their march, they did not use other force against them. 
There was no immediate in­formation on any injuries in the crush. 
The march turned instead into a jubilant procession. For more than 15 hours, the stu­dents marched through streets and under overpasses jammed with thousands of applauding people. High-rise dwellers leaned from their windows to watch, store clerks stood in their doorways and the patients of one hospital emerged in blue­and-white-striped pajamas. 
The march was the biggest and most dramatic action yet by Beijing students in their campaign for sweeping demo­cratic reforms, including a free press and an end to corruption. 
In Washington, the State De­partment called for restraint on the part of Chinese aut­horities and hoped the demonstrations would remain peaceful. 
"The United States believes in and supports the right of peaceful assembly, including peaceful protest and the freedom of expression," depar­tment spokeswoman Margaret Tutweler said. 
Even before the march 
ended, the government an­
nounced it was willing to hold 
talks with the students "at any time" if the students return to their campuses and "adopt a calm and reasonable attitude.'' 
However, a government spokesman quoted by the offi­cial Xinhua News Agency said the talks should be conducted through official student groups already rejected by the protesters as non-democratic. The government calls the protesters' newly formed uni­ons illegal. 
Xinhua later quoted a city spokesman as saying many of the students' demands, such as wiping out corruption, were "in accord with the wishes of the party and the government." The spokesman, who was not identified, urged the students to return to class, disband their illegal organizations and stop agitating. 
The students have called for Premier Li Peng to resign and say senior leader Deng Xiaop­ing, 84, is too old to rule. 
Most students say their cam­paign is not anti-government and they only want the leaders to do their job better and respect human rights. 
FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 1989 · 


TEACHER COURSE EVALUATIONS 
Teacher course evaluations given mixed ratings by profs 
By CINDY PETRITES While all the professors ac­young person's career." needed," or "Major improve­tions on the TCE form was an­Staff reporter knowledged the importance of Student apathy was a com­ments are called for," without other cause for professor con­studenf input, many were dis­mon complaint among the pro­examining the individual ques­cern. Regarding the question, Editor's note: This is the satisfied with the TCE forms, fessors, who acknowledged tions. This decreases TCE ef­"When asked questions does second of a two-part series on uses, and student attitude that many students regard fectiveness as a diagnostic tool. the instructor satisfy the stu­Teacher Course Evaluations. toward them. TCE's as 'just another routine,' "The computerized forms give dents?" some teachers argued Notre Dame professors "The problem is that there's a way to get back at teachers the professor a good idea about tb._at answering all students' found written student evalua­not much interest on the part they don't like, a chance to get the general tone of a class, but qttestions is not always a good tions "very helpful" but gave of the students," said Associate out of class early, or even a little guidance on how to im­thing, if even possible. In most mixed ratings to the computer­Dean of the College of Science, joke. Upon examining some prove specific areas," noted philosophy classes, for exam­ized TCE's, according to a stu­Jeremiah Freeman. "Students TCE results, one professor Robert Williamson, associate ple, it is the instructor's goal 
dent survey of eight professors don't realiz~ the consequences from the four different col­their actions can have. They leges. can do a lot of damage to a 

The Observer I Jennifer Sewall 

The Saint Mary's dining hall becomes a mecca of activity as countless Notre Dame students invade. Students of both schools flocked to the dining hall to enjoy a picnic for Antostal week. 
found that some students had dean of .~usiness Administra­to stimulate questions with no marked every question in the tion. column, "No improvement is The ambiguity of some ques-see TCE I page 8 
Religious task force will examine ND spirituality 
By KELLEY TUTHILL the issues of social and religi­to serve as a member on the 
Senior Staff Reporter ous ministry work together to task force. 
achieve common goals. The Father Gerald Lardner, rec­
University President Father quality of services offered to tor of Grace Hall, was also ap­
Edward Malloy has appointed the community will also be ex­pointed to the committee. He 
a committee of faculty, admi­amined. said that the ministry in the 
nistrators and students to the Sophomore Lisa Mackett halls is very important at Notre 
'!Task Force of Evangeliza­was appointed to work on the Dame. 
tion, Pastoral Ministry and So­task force committee. She said When people think of campus 
cial Values." that "they (the administra­ministry, they often think only 
The committee will be tion) want to get a feel for how of the Office of Campus Mini­chaired by Father Richard students express their religious stry, said Lardner. He would Warner, who said that the com­values." This summer Mackett like to examine the other places mittee will attempt to examine plans to do some independent where ministry takes place on the Catholic ministry on work on the project. campus. campus and how it affects stu­The Center for Social Con­dents, faculty and staff. The There are so many areas that cerns, the Counseling Center committee will look into the ef­could be examined, said Mack­and the residence halls are all fect that the ministry has on ett, yet she would like to con­examples of places where min­non-Catholic members of the centrate on the way that stu­istry takes place at Notre community and also to see how dents personalize their faith. Dame, said Lardner. His job in "social . awareness is Information from other Catho­the dorm is primarily as a min­promoted, developed and inte­lic universities will also be ister, not as an administrator, grated," said Warner. researched, said Mackett. said Lardner. The terminology 
According to Warner, the "It's a really diverse com­used to describe ministry on committee would also like to mittee," said Mackett. She said see how people who deal with that it is an honor to be asked see MINISTRY I page 7 
page 2 
WORLD BRIEFS 

A new cold fusion experiment has shown ''very encourag­ing" signs of success, such as producing more power than it consumed, a scientist said Thursday. "We stop short of saying that we see fusion" but preliminary results confirm observations recently announced at the University of utah, said researcher Uziel Landau. Landau is a professor of chemical engineering at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland. The utah experi­ments caused a sensation last month when researchers an­nounced they had produced fusion at room temperature with a simple apparatus. Since the announcement, some scientists have reported similar results while others said their attempts to con­firm the work failed. 
Gunman shot and killed a leftist congressman in Lima as he took his children to school Thursday and authorities said he was the highest elected official killed in Peru's nine-year insur­gency. No group claimed responsibility for the attack. Eriberto Arroyo, a congressional deputy from the United Left party, was killed in Chaclacayo, a Lima surburb. The United Left, a coalition of communist parties, has the second-largest representation in Congress. Radio Programas quoted police ·as blaming the lefist Shining Path guerrilla group, which has admitted to 15,000 killings in its nine-year war against the government. But the Path, which seeks to impose communist rule, has made only infrequent at­tacks against legal leftist groups. 
INDIANA BRIEFS 

A Wabash man accused of trying to hire someone to murder his estranged wife and his girlfriend's ex-husband faced a Friday appearance in U.S. District Court. David Fred, 31, was charged with conspiracy to commit murder. Also charged in the case is his girlfriend, Dorothy Trebilcock, 33, of Noblesville. 
Fred, who also owns Pirate's Cove Marina in Wabash County, dealt Monday with a stranger he had hired for the murders. The stranger, Fred believed, was a hit man who would receive $7,500 to kill Fred's wife and a former husband of Trebilcock now living in Michigan. Fred actually was dealing with an FBI special agent who went undercover after he and other investigators learned of the alleged plot through an inmate in the Attica Correctional Facility in New York state. 
Compromise proposals for improving Indiana's water quality and solid waste management practices have been com­bined into one bill that is heading for a final vote by the General Assembly. The proposed standard, which would affect industries and municipalities that discharge toxic chemicals into streams, are based on statewide water quality goals and would apply uniformly to all streams. "There is still a pretty heavy burden on industries and municipalities to improve and maintain the quality of Indiana waters while at the same time being realistic in our approach to the problem," Rep. Mark Kruzan, D­Bloomington, said. 
CAMPUS BRIEFS 
The Department of Chemistry at the University of Notre Dame will become the Department of Chemistry and Bioc­hemistry next academic year, the institution's Academic Council has decided. The change w.il,l reflect the sizable teaching and research facilities in biocherriistry at Notre Dame. The depart­ment will also offer a new bachelor's degree program in bioc­hemistry and a graduate program of study and research in bioc­hemistry leading to master's and doctoral degrees. -The Observer 
WEATHER 


April showers... 
A 70 percent chance of thunderstorms today with a high in the middle 60s. A 70 percent chance of thunderstorms again tonight with a low around 50. Cloudy Saturday with a 50 per­cent chance of rain, high in the 60s. 
ALMANAC 
On April 28: e In 1789: There was a mutiny of the "Bounty" as the crew of the 

British ship set Captain William Bligh and 18 soldiers adrift in a launch in the South Pacific. 
e In 1941: The U.S. Supreme Court ruled that blacks traveling on railroad cars were entitled to the same 
level of quality and service given white passengers. 
e In 1945: Italian dictator Benito Mussolini and his mistress, both of whom had tried to flee advancing Allied forces, were captured and executed by Italian partisans. 
• Ten Years Ago: Five Soviet dissidents, released from custody and flown to the U.S. a day earlier, told reporters in New York their presence in the U.S. was "incredible." Meanwhile, two Soviet spies released by the U.S. arrived in Moscow. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for Thurs., April 27, 1989 


Dow Jones 
Industrial Average 
+29.88 
Closed at2418.99 
Currency exchange 
Mark +.0033 to 1.8760 DMI$ 
Yen +0.01 to 131.12¥1$ 
Pound 4t.001 0 to 1.6900 $1£ 
Precious Metals Gold +$2.10 to $386.10 I oz. Silver+ 11.8¢ to $5.645 I oz. 

Information compiled from Observer w1res and Observer staff reports. 
The Observer Friday, April 28, 1989 
Graduating seniors made freshman feel at home 
And so I cried, "No, stop!" but she continued to peel off my clothes, layer by layer ... 
Now that I have your attention, let me begin this column in all seriousness. The end of the school year is here. Finals are so close you can smell them. Or perhaps they can smell you. In any case, since it is the end of another year, let us momentarily stop cutting holes in our jeans, wearing our sweatshirts inside-out, and saying "Sweet!" to bid farewell to some of the things of 88-89: a glorious national champion­ship football season, another unremarkable season with Digger, of course another year of academic successes (we are, remember, stu­dents, and darn good ones at that), and one thing which probably three-quarters of us for­get but which means a lot to me--the senior class of 1989. 
I am not a senior, so you are probably asking, "Well, what does this joker care about the senior class?" Well, through a combination of housing shortages and fate, I was placed in a room with five upperclassmen my freshman year. An interesting situation, to say the least. 
l lived in a study lounge with three other freshmen all of fall semester 1987, but after Christmas we were informed that we would have to be split up into rooms with available open spots. One guy already had a room picked out, another guy said he definitely would not be split up, so it was between the remaining two of us. We knew the spot was with upperclas­smen. We also had seen these guys around the dorm. They looked scary. Big. Tough. Mean. Hairy. Leather jackets. 
"Okay," I said to my study lounge mate, "let's flip for it. The loser moves in with the upperclassmen. I call heads." And I flipped the coin. 
Tails. 

After I recovered from the trauma, I ventured to what I thought to be my doom. "This is crazy," I thought. "These guys have been living together for three years. They'd rather have hernias than have some freshman move in with them!" Anyway, I approached the room where I was to live. I peeked inside and tapped on the door. A guy far too tall with hair far too long, looking like he'd just walked off the beach, an­swered from a reclining position. 
"Yeah?" 
"Uh, hi. I'm your new roommate." 
"Yeah? Great. Nicetameetcha. I'm John." 

He asked me if I needed help moving my stuff in. I said sure. He called in two other room­mates and made introductions. One guy, Phil, 
OF INTEREST 
The Notre Dame Chorale presents its Alumni Reunion Concert tonight at 8:15p.m. in Washington Hall. 
Notre Dame Collegium Musicum will perform in concert on Sunday, April30 at 4 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium. The program in­lcudes works by Buxtehude, Couperin, Mon­teverdi and Brahms. 
The ISO Picnic will be held today at 4:30 
p.m. at Holy Cross field. 
Yearbooks are being distributed today from noon to 4 p.m. between Washington and Cavanaugh Halls. Student ID's must be pre­sented. 
Mud Bowl '89 pits the An Tostal Executive Committee against the South Bend Police De­partment in a volleyball game at noon on Sat­urday at the Mud Pits. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacat1on penods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s College. Subscriptions may be pur· chased for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

'We knew the spot was with upperclassmen... 
They looked scary. Big. Tough ... Hairy. 
Florentine Hoelker Assistant News Editor 

looked like he was 30 going on 45. Bald, mous­tache, bad physique. The other guy looked like Robbie Benson, but his name was Dan. So he said. 
We came to my study lounge, and I said ner­vously, "I hope you guys need a stereo. Do you have room for mine?" 
"Oh yeah!" said Phil. "This is great! Our stereo is almost dead." And with those words, great friendships were born. 
I soon met my two other roommates, Fitz and Andrew. Fitz was a stocky ROTC-type who you could trust your life with, while Andrew seemed a leather jacket-clad, darkly handsome New York City type who you wouldn't trust your sister with. 
But they all took care of me. They made me feel welcome, introduced me to their friends, exposed me to the ND social scene, and tried to make me feel less like a freshman. 
I remember one incident in particular, al­though the details are blurred. Pitying my lack of social skills, they risked their reputation taking me to an off-campus party. The party was good but--surprise! I drank too much. Regurgitation was the only possible solution. I dimly recall walking through the snow, towards the car, apologizing as I puked in the street. 
"That's okay," Fitz said. "We've all done it before. Now you're just one of the guys." What a sense of humor. 
But he meant it in a way, for in the following year and a half those five scary upperclassmen became my companions, my drinking buddies, my advisors, my lifting partners, my caretakers, and most importantly, they became my friends. But now they're leaving. 
I shall miss them. 
Farewell. 
F~orentine Hoe~ker is a sophomore Eng~ish major and an assistant news editor for The Ob­server. 
WVFI-AM 640 applications are available in Suite 200 LaFortune and are due by 5 p.m. Monday. 
Campus Activities Night applications are now available in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune. All clubs and organizations which to be represented at this event should pick one up today and return it by May 12 to reserve space. Questions call 239-7308. 
Zero Year Reunion '89, a free picnic for all seniors and graduate students hosted by the Notre Dame Alumni Association, will be held at the Senior-Alumni Club on Saturday from noon to 3 p.m. 21 ID required. 
The movie "Jean de Flo rete" will be shown at the Annenberg Auditorium tonight at 7:30p.m. followed by a Cercle Francais recep­tion in the South Lounge of Walsh Hall. 
Deslgri Editor ........................... Chris Labaree Design Assistant...................... Alison Cooks Typesetters ............................ Molly Schwartz ....................................................... Dan Towers News Editor ............................... Tim O'Keefe Copy Editor............................... John O'Brien Sports Copy Editors ........... Steve Megargee . ...................................................... Bob Mitchell VIewpoint Layout ................. Tricia Grohman Etc. Editor ............................ Robyn Simmons Etc. Copy Editor......................... Missy liVing Etc. Designer ............................ Brian Grunert Typists.......................................... Sue Barton .......................................................Rosi Lozada ND Day Editor .......................... Betsy Mennell SMC Day Editor ....................... Alissa Murphy Photographer......................... Jennifer Sewall Ada Dealgners .............................. Vat Poletto . ..................................................... Mindy Breen .................................................... Meg Callahan . ..................................................... Maria Blohm 

-----------~---------,
~~------~----------------­
Friday, April 28, 1989 
Ethics in business focus of FCA talk 
By MAURA LONG News Staff 
Jim Early, a 1976 Notre Dame graduate and co-founder of the first Notre Dame chapter of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes, spoke Thursday at a chapter meeting on "Christian Ethics in Business." 
According to Early, "there are two human problems that cause unethical behavior: greed and fear." These ''un­healthy motives" both involve money, the desire to accum­ulate it and the fear of not being successful, he said. 
Early said most people are subject to unethical behavior when they are concentrating on short term rewards rather than on the big picture. 
"The ethics of Christ are the highest ethics," Early said, for Christ lived a perfect human life as seen in the New Testa­ment. 
"With his (Jesus') life in me there is a possibility for a way of high ethical standards to come out through me in busi­ness," Early said. 
Early concluded that "ethics is good business" because the greatest long term reward is for God to judge you as being successful. 
Bill Freeman, editor and writer for "The Christian" monthly magazine, addressed the meeting on "The Secret of the Christian Life." 
The secret is simply that "Jesus Christ himself is the Ch­ristian life," said Freeman. 
According to Freeman, the question one must ask is "if Christ is the secret, what is my relationship to him?" A rela­tionship in which Christ lives in you, not outside of you, is the ultimate way to know God, said Freeman. 
The biggest obstacle to knowing God, Freeman claims, is the confidence in one's self that they do not need the Lord. 

.. 
.
I 
~ 

5££ Dl~~ 
~\~
D(IV£ 
.SEE [)ICI\ DUID 

Don't drink and drive 
A public service message from The Observer 

is accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Ad Designers 
For more information, contact Shannon Roach at 283-2608 or 239-5303 
The Observer page 3 

By KRISTENE M. KRUCZEK Staff Reporter 
In the final speech for the 1989 Justice Education Con­versation Series at Saint Mary's, Joe Incandela urged that the title "Concluding Reflections" does not imply the work toward diversification is over. 
An assistant professor of Re­ligious studies, Incandela ex­plained, "Diversity is not only beneficial but necessary if Saint Mary's attempts to be true to Christian convictions that founded it and sustain it." 
Incandela added that diver­sification is the resonsibility of the entire community--stu­dent, faculty and administration--and that point­ing fingers just divides the campus over the issue, making progress very difficult. 
There is a possible danger destructful because it is more establishes individual identity difficult to pinpoint than overt and, "the educational mission with the "all-responsible" atti­tude, he added. "Christian et­hicist, Reinhold Neibuhr, argued that moral behavior comes easier to individuals than it does to groups." 

Incandela explained that in­dividuals could find it easier to be unjust in a group because of the attitudes of those around them. 
"Sacrifice," he added, plays a major role in diversification, in that individuals must be will­ing to sacrifice "self-interests" for someone else. Recognizing the need for diversification could involve going against the 
norm, said Incandela, and thus, result in sacrifice. 
"Group prejudice may occur through various forms of subtle discrimination," said Incan­dela. He explained that al­though subtle discrimination is not "malicious" it is the most tuous" individuals. 
Incandela explained two pos­sible explanations for why more diversity has not been ac­cepted. 
One reason, he said, might be that diversified students were not at Saint Mary's be­cause they lacked qualifica­tion. Incandela added, "more reasonably," however, they were excluded due to reasons that had nothing to do with their ability. 
These reasons were false as­sumptions of what was the es­sence of Saint Mary's, which were founded on a kind of "desire for comfort, incompat­ible with Christianity." In­candela urged that diversifica­tion without limits, on the other hand, could lead to "a lack of identity, standards and values." But, he added, the diversification of a community 
page 4 The Observer Friday, April 28, 1989 
Pravda publishes confessions of failure by party members 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW-Pravda on Thursday published seven pages of admissions by Com­munist Party officials that their failures had led to embar­rassing losses in parliamen­tary elections and damaged the people's faith in their leaders. 
The officials, speaking at a meeting of the party's policy­making Central Committee, said the 20 million-member party is in danger of losing its unity and hold on the Soviet people. 
"The people feel uncomfort­able, alarmed, have lost their optimism," said Moscow Mayor Valery Saikin, who lost in the March 26 elections. "Various generations of people, separate social layers and even regions are quarrell­ing among themselves." 
His remarks and those of President Mikhail Gorbachev and 19 other speakers dominated Pravda, the party's official newspaper. 
Saikin said people were losing faith in the party, and that as a result, party organi­zations "have lost their van­guard role." This was a strik­ing admission that the party had failed in one of its primary goals, to lead Soviet society. 
Remarks at Central Commit­tees generally are kept secret, and publication of 20 critical speeches delivered Tuesday appeared to be an effort to show the people the leadership is hearing their complaints. 
Admissions that perestroika, Gorbachev's 4-year-old restructuring program, has failed to solve many of the country's problems also could serve as ammunition by people fighting for more radical reform. 

Gorbachev gained strength to push for more extreme ac­tion at Tuesday's meeting, when 74 of the Central Commit­tee's 301 members retired. 
Because of age, illness or po­litical disgrace, those who retired had lost the top govern­ment or party job which en­titled them to membership. The remarks of some of those who retired were published Thursday. 
Among them was Geidar Aliev, the 65-year-old former party chief in Azerbaijan and a close associate of former President Leonid Brezhnev. 
News reports have accused Aliev of corruption and falsify­ing records to show he was a war veteran. But Aliev told the Central Committee the accusa­tions were untrue . 
Soviet space station empty for first time in over two years 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW-The Soviet Union ended an era in its manned space program Thursday when three cosmonauts returned to Earth, leaving the Mir space station empty for the firsftime in more than two years. 
A Soyuz TM-7 capsule carry­ing Alexander Volkov, Sergei Krikalev and Valery Polyakov landed about 90 miles northeast of Dzhezkazgan in Soviet Central Asia, Tass said. 
Mir, designed for permanent occupancy, will remain empty until another rocket launch scheduled in August. Officials said the respite will save money at a time when the So­viet Union is struggling with a $160 billion deficit. 
Tass called the touchdown of the Soyuz capsule soft, but Volkov, on the evening news program "Vremya," called it "not one of the softest." 
"There was a double touch­down. The apparatus landed, then jumped from the ground and we were turned over several times. In general, the blows could be felt. Probably the bruises will remain," Volkov said. 
Krikalev suffered the most because he hit a capsule control panel, the TV reporter said without elaboration. 
There was no explanation on 


FREE 
TANNING 
Mishawaka lndtan Ridge Plaza (Next to Venture) Hours: Daily 9·8 
Grape Rd. Sat. 9·6 277·7946 
Sun. 11·5 
what went wrong. 
Volkov and Krikalev had been in space for five months. Polyakov, a doctor, had been aboard Mir for eight months. 
A replacement crew was or­ginally due to arrive at the Mir station April19 to keep the sta­tion manned, but Tass said "a delay with the preparation of the new modules forced a revi­sion of the plan." 
The respite will allow scien­tists a chance to review scien­tific data, complete work on two unfinished station modules and give ground controllers vacations, space officials said last week. 
In August, cosmonauts will return to Mir for a six-month stint that will include oversee­ing the addition of a new re­search module and a service module, officials said. The ad­ditions will double the space station's weight to 100 tons, Tass said. 

Since its launch in 1986, Mir has been home to four resident crews, including the record­breaking yearlong stay by cos­monauts Vladimir Titov and Musa Manarov, who returned to Earth in December. 
tAMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY~ 

IEUhlFJF)Y IffiJTI:ffi,"lrlBBID)A1f CCIECCJE 
(April 24th) 

20...and still 
stron 
ATTENTION UNDERGRADUATES! 
LAST CALL FOR APPLICATIONS! 
Thursday, May 4 is the last day to submit applications for the 1989 St. Mary's Semester Around the World foreign study program. 
For information call Dr. Cy Pullapilly at either 284-4468, 272-0889 or 284-4474. 
• 
t t 
... ­
-
Paper pony 

Lydia Fulton, 9, of Hingham, Mass., rides her Shetland Pony Jacky as she delivers newspapers along her paper route in a Hingham neighborhood earlier this month. Except when it's raining or snowing, Lydia and Jacky take to the streets to deliver The Patriot Ledger newspaper. 

LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 
•·f·. , I . . ,;­
. I ' I\ 
.... \· ~ /·/~ '-"' .' 
.1~ -'-.I~ ·, l ~/ .i ,. . ' ~-~'-. '..\~ _. ~ 
.....,~-::~~ . .,_ ·~'~ 
PON TOIIIVI DRUNK Uti RUt( WITH .IHtfONf VIHO QOt \ 
Don't miss this golden opportunity to save on a Balfour College Class Ring! 
$300FF10K • $500FF14K • $700FF 18K Hllrry! Offered for a limited time only! 

L-------~~~~~~ 
See your Balfour Representative 
May 1st 11 :00-4:30pm at Haggar College Center game room 
Special Graduation Week Friday, May 19 12-4 in the Game Room 
872-0346 

Deposit Required 


Friday, April 28, 1989 The Observer page 5 
Shuttle launch will carry Venus probe 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.­Five astronauts tracked a per­fect countdown Thursday as technicians prepared the shuttle Atlantis for a midafter­noon launch on Friday. The mission will propel NASA's 1'Magellan" probe to Venus and revive America's deep­space science program. 
"After an 11-year gap in the planetary program, we're anx­ious to get started," said John Gerpheide, Magellan project manager. 
Officials described the countdown as the smoothest of four since the Challenger dis­aster. The chance of high winds provided slight concern as NASA looked forward to liftoff in an unusually tight launch window that opens at 2:24 p.m. EDT and lasts justs 23 minutes. 
Magellan, ready for its 15­month flight to Venus, "is 100 percent healthy and ticking along," said Lennard Fisk, NASA's chief scientist. "We're ready to go fly," said Richard Truly, who heads the shuttle program and is the incoming NASA administrator. 
Earlier Thursday, three So­viet cosmonauts returned to Earth, leaving the Mir space station unattended for the first time in more than two years. Two of the cosmonauts had been in space for five months, the other for eight months. 
Atlantis' cargo is the Magel­lan spacecraft which has a radar system powerful enough to pierce the dense sulfuric acid clouds of Venus and map its surface. The mission costs $550 million, not including the $225 million cost of the four-day shuttle flight. 
Magellan's radar images, relayed to Earth and enhanced by computer, should reveal details as small as 100 yards across, about the size of a foot­ball field. That is 10 times shar­per than previous pictures of the planet. 
Stephen Saunders, Magellan project scientist, said the radar images could help scientists understand how Venus was formed and might provide an answer to the puzzling question of how Earth and Venus evolved so differently even though they were almost identi­cal when the solar system formed 4.6 billion years ago. 
The Magellan deployment is scheduled 6 hours 18 minutes after liftoff, with astronauts Mark Lee and Mary Cleave conducting a countdown from inside their shuttle cabin. An hour after the release, a rocket is to fire to hurl the 7 ,600-pound unmanned probe on a 450-day journey to Venus, a complex trip that takes Magellan one and one-half times around the sun before it intercepts its tar­get planet. 
The Atlantis crew also in­cludes commander David Walker, pilot Ronald Grabe and mission specialist Norman Thagard. Lee is the only one who has not flown on a previous shuttle mission. 
Spending cutbacks and delays forced by the 1986 Chal­lenger accident prompted NASA to use the roundabout ap­proach to Venus. The trip could have been made in four months under better circumstances. 
The first American planetary m1ss1on since 1978 will mark the beginning of a busy year for NASA's planetary program. "In Au­gust the Voyager spacecraft will fly by Neptune and in Oc­tober we'll launch Galileo (from the shuttle) to Jupiter," Gerpheide said. 

The Observer I Jennifer Sewall 

Appetite for Antostal 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students enjoy some food, fun and sun as they sit outside of the dining 
hall at Saint Mary's on Thursday. They were sharing a picnic dinner that was part of this week's 
Antostal festivities. 
12,000 injured, 600 killed in tornado in Bangladesh 
Associated Press 
MANIKGANJ, Bangladesh­A tornado swept through central Bangladesh, killing 600 people and injuring 12,000 others as it flattened buildings and tossed fishing boats, gov­ernment officials said Thursday. At least 200 people were missing. 
Wednesday evening's storm, which also unleashed hail and heavy rain, struck hours after President Hussain Muhammad Ershad led nationwide prayers for an end to a drought that has been tormenting Bangladesh. 
Survivors said the funnel cloud raged for 10 minutes at dusk Wednesday in the Manik­ganj area 25 miles northwest of Dhaka, and tore down "everything, including build­ings." 
The twister capsized several fishing boats, raising fears that many of the 200 missing may have been killed. 
"I saw black clouds gather­ing in the sky. In moments we found we were flying along with the house," said Sayeda Begum, a 30-year-old housewife in the village of Saturia, near Manikganj. 
The government official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, confirmed the toll of 600 dead. A government doc­tor from the area said at least 12,000 people were injured. 
Troops on Thursday searched wrecked villages for survivors. In Saturia, a village of 10,000 people, nothing was standing for about one square mile. 
Sayeda said she and her bus­band and four children were lifted through the air by the storm. Her 5-year-old son was found two miles away, suffer­ing from bad bruises, she said. All of them suffered injuries. 
In the neighboring village of Nandeshwari, none of the 120 houses was left standing. 
Bangladesh, one of the world's poorest countries with a per capita annual income of $160, alternates between flood and drought. Agriculture is the main occupation of most of its 110 million people. 
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT 
In the next few years, the number of jobs requiring a college education will greaUy exceed the number ol collage graduates available to flll them. Employers are racing against lima and each olher to begin attracting future collage graduates to their organizations. 
Don, waste your summer worl<.ing low-paying menial labor type jobs. MIDWEST SUMMER GO-oP represents thousands of Indiana corporations and organlzaUons that want to hire collage students to wor1<. lull·time during the summer in car-related poaltlons. WOII< In your liakl of interest and gain valuable experience while earning a respectable irM:Om<i"this summer. To beallg· lble you must have completed a minimum of one year (24 credit hours) In college and have attained at least a "C" (2.0 on a 4.0 scale) grade point average. 
To gel your summer posHion, simply match your car-interests to the needs of an employer lis· ted In our SUMMER CQ-OP DIRECTORY. The directory lists thousands of summer poaltions available throughout Indiana Job descriptions are organized into 53 general catagorles ·Account· ing, Advertising, Design, Engineering (civil, electrical, mechanical), Education, Fashion Marchan· dising, Ananca, Graphic Aris, law, Marketing, Nursing, ate. Whatever your interes~ !here are a number of posntons to choose from. Work wHh and learn from some of the top pnofesslonals In Indiana The directory comes complete with application materials and a toll· tree number to call for assistance In arranging interviews. 
OUR GUARANTEE For every summer posHion we fill wHh an eligible collage stu dan~ MIDWEST SUM­MER CQ-OP receives a fee from the employer for our services. Services to the employer include: listing In our directory, pre-screening applicants and arranging interviews. Our services are at no cost to the college student. However, we cannot afford to wasta our time and resources on those who are not serious about finding quaiHy summer employment The costs of producing and sending the directories alone (they are the size of a telephone book) are very high. This is why we must request $5 to help cover the costll of each directory and sat of application materials we send out. If you are unable to flnd a summer poaltlon suitable to your .-dsand interests, you can return them loralull ratund. Ifyou doaccept a posHion. under a list· ing agreement wHh MIDWEST SUMMER CO·OP,the employer will refund the $5 on your first paycheck. 
ThislsanaxcetlantopportunHyto"taste"your~lnterestslntherealwor1dbeloracompleting 
a degree. Take advantage of the shrinking pool of educated workers. Earn while you learn this summer. Flaxlble)obsto!HyourvacaUonschedula. Alljobsprovldegreatpayandbanlllts. (Com­panlesare allowed sizeable tax credHs lorhiring collage students 011erthesummer.) So, what wiN H be? Fast food five or Fortune 500? The choice is yours. 
Don, procrastinate, this can be a very important and valuable summer for you. Please direct all Inquiries to our processing canter in Illinois. Sand your name, currant school address, home address, and $5 (refundable) to: 
MIDWEST SUMMER CO·OP 
Indiana Applications Dept. 
Oak Brook Center, Box 954 
Oak Brook, IL 60522-954 
Make check or money order payable to MIDWEST SUMMER CQ-OP. 
Directory and application materials will be sent out to you by express mall the same day we recelve your request. Please, no phone calls until after you have looked through the dlrectofy and know which poaltlons you are Interested ln. A directory llsUng thouaands of summer positions In Nllnois Is also available. Sand requests to the IUtnols Applications Dept at the same address above. 
MIDWEST SUMMER CO·OP Is a supporter of the Indiana Hire the Future Summar Job Program. 
Consumer spending sluggish in March 
rose sharply to a seasonally ad­justed annual rate of $4.35 tril­lion after advances of 1 percent in February and 1.7 percent in January. 
Personal spending, mean­while, edged up to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $3.39 trillion after gains of 0.5 per­cent in February and 0.7 per­cent in January. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The govern­ment said Thursday that con­sumer spending rose a slim 0.2 percent in March, its weakest performance in six months and a sign, analysts said, that con­sumers are contributing to an economic slowdown. 
The sluggish spending came even as personal income rose a strong 0.8 percent. That com­bination boosted the personal savings rate to its highest level in nearly four years, the Com­merce Department reported. 


Analysts said Thursday's reports provided new con­firmation that the economic ac­celeration is slowing and that consumers are helping apply the brakes. 
Personal income in March 
rOOIDSHl~\!Rl E FOOIDSHfo\!RllE rr:o,o D§Hfo\ IRl lE fFOOrDSH~!RllE 
Center for Social Concerns
fl)0 !D S H fo\ [RUE Notre Dame, IN 46556 
(219) 239-5293 


In one year we saved and served over 18,000 meals! Thanks to all who volunteered! A special thanks to all the workers in North Dining Hall! 
WE. ~E.E.D YOU lH~S SQJJ~~ME.~~ 
If you'll be on campus, help us deliver food one night a week. Contact Lisa Mackett at 4945. Faculty and students needed. 

~~-~--­
page 6 The Observer Friday, April 28, 1989 
531 N.Michigan St. Phone 233-4957 

MUSr LIQUIDArE ENriRE SrOCK! 
Impress 


AP Photo
More soccer riots 

Dutch riot police hold down a West German soccer fan and arrest him after he was part of a riot in Rotterdam Wednesday afternoon prior to a World Cup qualification soccer game between Holland and West Germany. 
SATs biased against girls, says researcher 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Girls are losing scholarships, self­esteem and access to good col­leges due to biased test ques­tions that could easily be changed or omitted, a re­searcher said Thursday in releasing a study of the Scholastic Aptitude Test. 
Phyllis Rosser said she studied the answers turned in by 100,000 students on the No­vember 1987 SAT, and pin­pointed 23 questions of the total 145 in which one sex did at least 10 percent better than the other. Boys did better in all but two, she said. 
"These questions are tipping 
Rocco's Hair 

Styling 

the balance. As a result, four years of high school achieve­ment go down the drain. They're wiped out by a three­hour test," said Rosser, whose study was paid for with federal money under the Women's Educational Equity Act. 
The SAT written by the Edu­cational Testing Service is taken by 1.5 million students annually, 52 percent of whom are girls. In 1988, average female scores were 13 points lower than male scores on the verbal section of the test and 43 points lower on the math . 
The major purpose of the SAT is to predict first-year col­lege grades. However, Rosser said studies show that females earn higher average grades than males in both high school and first-year college classes. 
Rosser said ETS has a bias­screening process but does not make its results available tore­searchers or the public. She said her study is the first to identify specific questions that create a gender gap. 
For the verbal section, she said an example of a male­biased question would be "Dividends are to stock­holders ... " with the answer being "as royalties are to writ­ers." A question favoring females would be "Love is to requite ... " with the answer being "as attack is to retaliate." 
Gorbachev: food shortages worse 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW-Complaining of a 
slowness to embrace his 
reforms, Mikhail Gorbachev 
declared that food and housing 
shortages are worsening be­
cause economic mismanage­
ment remains rampant and 
workers still loaf on the job. 
The Soviet president's un­usually tough analysis came in his closing address to the Com­munist Party's policy-making Central Committee after nearly a quarter of its mem­bers were retired--many of them holdovers from pre­Gorbachev days. 
Gorbachev said citizens vented their anger March 26, when at least three dozen senior Communist Party can­didates were defeated in par­liamentary elections, the country's first contested vote in 
Man killed in gunfire with SWAT team 
Associated Press 

ANDERSON, Ind-A Frankton man was shot and killed Thursday in an exchange of gunfire with the Madison County sheriff's SWAT team, authorities said. 
David "Steve" Bennett, 45, was shot once in the head in a field about 2 miles west of An­derson at about 7:30a.m. 
Police said a convenience store clerk reported a man car­rying a gun entered the store at Ind. 32 and Madison County Road 600 West shortly after it opened at 5:30a.m. and began threatening the people inside. 
The man left the store in a light-colored car, and crashed into a barn about a quarter of a mile north of Ind. 32 on the county road, police said. 
Members of the special weapons and tactics unit sur­rounded the barn, believing the seven decades. 
"People respond badly to shortages and to queues that take time and, to put it frankly, humiliate people," he said. The official Tass news agency re­ported on Tuesday's speech to the closed-door session a day later. 
Perestroika, the program Gorbachev launched four years ago to overhaul the So­viet economy and society, remains the proper course, he said, but reforms are not being properly enacted, particularly by local leaders. 
"I think, comrades, and this is the opinion of the entire Polit­buro; that we can no longer put up with mismanagement that literally compromises perestroika and does a tremen­dous damage, economic and moral, to the whole of society.'' Gorbachev said. 
suspect was barricaded inside, said Maj. Scott Mellinger with the sheriff's department. 
Then an Edgewood police of­ficer spotted the car in a field about an eighth of a mile beyond the barn. Some of the 18 police officers at the scene approached the car. 
The suspect took cover be­hind the car and fired twice at the officers, Mellinger said. 
Mellinger said police tried to talk to the man. 
"I wasn't close enough to hear his exact words, but he 
was  yelling.  He  was  irate,"  
Mellinger said.  
Mellinger  said  the  SWAT  
team  members  were  author­ 

ized to fire. Police fired three or four times and the suspect fired once. 
Bennett was pronounced dead at the scene. Mellinger said four weapons were found in Bennett's possession. 


MEN'S • WOMEN'S • CHILDREN'S 
Dress Shoes 
FROMsgss 
9 West • Calico • Florshiem Bellini • Fan Fares • Freeman Nunn Bush • Georgio Brutini Buster Brown • Nickelodian 
WOMEN'S SUMMER $599 
SNAKESKIN $~ 999 SHOES FROM 
SHOES FROM I MUCH MORE! 
Athletic Shoes 
NIKE • REEBOK • AVIA 
REEBOK~Ro~19 95 
,::60%oFF 
ENTIRE INVENTORY INCLUDING NIKE AIR CROSS 
TRAINERS & REEBOK ENERGY ------'L.' • .::~-·.• _____.,­RETURN SYSTEMS ~ 
page 7

Friday, April 28, 1989 The Observer 
Reward offered in UK for capture of ba~y-food spikers 

The Observer I Jennifer Sewall

'Brare browsing 
Saint Mary's student Margaret Scully proves that a leg injury doesn't hinder your ability to study as she crams in a little more reading in the foyer of the Hesburgh Library. 

_ Ihe Obser:ver__ 
= 

is accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Day Editors 
For more information, contact Janet Herold at 283-4205 or 239-5303 byMay3 
TEMPORARY INDUSTRIAL POSITIONS 
Indianapolis manufacturer may be hiring temporary production employees for the summer session. Hourly wage will be $7.50. Positions will require shift work and overtime. 
To apply, please call 
1-800-438-0041 
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/HN 
Associated Press 
LONDON-Two of Britain's leading food manufacturers of­fered a $170,000 reward Wed­nesday for information leading to blackmailers who have put glass shards, pieces of razor blades, thumbtacks and caus­tic soda in baby food. 
H.J. Heinz Co. Ltd. and Cow and Gate Ltd. offered the joint reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the culprits. The companies said they received blackmail demands but would not elabo­rate. 
Since April 7, 28 incidents of tampering involving baby food have been reported, including 11 on Wednesday, the govern­ment said. At least three people have suffered minor injuries. 
Scotland Yard said it was co­ordinating a nationwide police inquiry. 
"It is difficult to imagine the twisted minds that could mount such a vicious attack on defenseless babies," Home Of­fice Minister John Patten told the House of Commons. He said the government pledged to resist ''all attempts at con­sumer terrorism." 
The victims so far are a 9­month-old girl in Oxford, who cut her mouth on a piece of razor blade, and two mothers cut by glass hidden in jars of infant food. None required hospital treatment. 
London's Daily Mail re­ported Wednesday that black­mailers apparently were trying to extort money from su­permarkets and food compan­ies. It said several major su­permarket chains had received threats. 
General: Army recruits not coach potatoes 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-No, recruits to the U.S. Army do not constitute a corps of couch potatoes, says the U.S. Army General who's second in com­mand of training. 
Lt. General John Crosby said his order adding some low­impact exercises to basic train­ing should not be misconstrued as lowering standards or as criticism on the physical con­dition of the all-volunteer Army. 
"The soldier who's coming in today is better equipped, both mentally and physically, to handle the rigors of military training than when I first en­tered the Army in 1954," he said. "They are bigger, stronger, more capable and have greater protential than the soldiers that came in the Army when I came in." 
Army podiatrist Lt. Col. John Anderson said earlier this month that he couldn't remem­ber recruits being in worse con­dition and said the enlistees "have spent more time in front of the TV" than out exercising. 
Crosby has ordered drill ser­geants to minimize the running of recruits during the third week of basic training, when, studies show, many training in­juries occur. His directive was partly based upon the findings of Col. Margarete Di Benedet­to, a physician who has studied training injuries. 
Di Benedetto, attending a local training conference with Crosby on Wednesday, also said the Army was not soften­ing its training, but rather is "doing things smarter." 
"The performance is better when the body gets a chance to recuperate," she said. 
Running and jumping during the third week have been found to contribute to stress fractures and muscle pulls, so a substitu­tion of lower-impact aerobic exercises such as walking or swimming may allow recruits to ultimately perform at a higher level. 
As for Anderson's criticism of recruits for being "couch potatoes," Crosby said televi­sion has in fact enhanced today's soldier. 
ology; Sister Mary Curran, director of religious education for the Office of Campus Mini­stry; Father Thomas Gaug­han, associate rector of Sacred Heart Church; Sister Mary Jane Griffin, rector of Howard Hall; Mark Herro, associate professor of electrical and computer engineering; George Kolettis, professor of mathe­matics; Father Gerald Lardner, rector of Grace Hall; Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice president for student affairs; Kevin Misiewicz, associate professor of accountancy; Patricia O'Hara, associate pro­fessor of law; Erskine Peters, professor of English; Father Joseph Ross, assistant rector of Fisher Hall; Thomas Guinan, junior student; Lisa Mackett, sophomore student; Thomas Mustillo, sophomore student; Kevin Suggs, sophomore stu­dent; aad Paul Wojda, graduate student. 
The committee has met twice so far this semester, with one meeting scheduled before the end of the semester, said Warner. At the end of next se­mester the committee will turn in an interim report and the final report will be completed by May, 1990. 
The Observer 
THE JUDICIAL consensus in fa­vor of Roe v. Wade has looked shaky !:Ver since the confirmation of Justice Kennedy. Just six months ago, a pro-choice candidate and a pro-life caodidate were running for President. The latter is in the White House. The former was sent back to Boston to hector people about seatbelts. 
Ministry 
continued from page 1 
campus should be looked into, according to Lardner. 
"It is an exciting group and a worthwhile project," said Lardner. He said that the report will be "very compre­hensive, very well thought out and challenging to the Univer­sity community". 
Members of the Task Force on Evangelization, Pastoral Ministry and Social Values are Father David Burrell, profes­sor of philosophy and theology; Father Joseph Carey, assistant director of financial aid and rector of Dillon Hall; Lawrence Cunningham, professor of the-

JEAN de 

FLORETTE 
YVEli MC:NTAND GUARD DEPARDIEU IMNIEL Alli'EUIL 
OWf. n.DitETT'! "-.,'!_-.!T"Jr MARCEL PAGNOL 
A FU.M BYCU.UOE BERRI 
...,o-.__c... ..,.,,.,.,~~
........,. 


• NO!ll£ TONIGHT AT THE SNITE 
Notre
DAME 
COf.I1MUNICATION 
7:30, 9:45

ANOTHEATR£
F
Cinematheque 
Dine at the Water's t:dge 
Brunch or Lunch from $3.95 Early Dinners from $5.95 Prime Rib or Shrimp $7.95 



~ ~----~------------------------­
page 8 
The Observer 


TCE 
continued from page 1 
clear answers, Williamson said. 
Another question which pro­fessors found ambiguous was, "Do the examinations ade­quately assess student mastery of course material?" Some ex­ams, said biological sciences professor Karamjit Rai, re­quire students to go beyond memorization and apply con­cepts. Students unprepared to do that tend to feel such exams are unfair and to rate them negatively on the evaluation forms. 
This raises another area of concern for instructors: whe­ther students can be accurate judges of teacher perfor­mance. Especially in enginee­ring and science courses, stu­dents often have no way to judge teacher performance or course. texts. "They have no basis of comparison," said Freeman. With no way to judge, students run the risk of mistaking good personality for good teaching, and rating good but less enter­taining professors harshly on the TCE's. "If a teacher can be 'popular' or 'interesting,' how does that translate on the TCE?" asked Rai. Moreover, in courses which are particu­larly subject-oriented, profes­sor creativity is limited by the course material constraints. 
Several professors supported changes in the TCE's to ad­dress these problems. Many felt having different TCE forms for each col~ e would be one way to make TCE's more specific. This would elim­inate most 'not applicable' responses and allow instruc­tors to concentrate on their own areas of concern. Many also favored the establishment of a student review panel to exam­ine the current TCE's and make suggestions for change. If students had more input into the TCE process, they would probably take them more seriously, teachers thought. 
Professors gave written stu­dent evaluations much higher marks on the whole. Professor of Mro-American literature Erskine Peters considered the written evaluations so impor­tant that he did not finalize his decision to teach at Notre Dame until he had seen the Notre Dame students' TCE's. Like most professors, Peters finds the written evaluations more helpful than the comput­erized TCE's in determining how future courses will be taught. One year when Peters received a TCE requesting more student participation, Peters instituted class reports to guarantee every student a chance to speak in class. "That one student was responsible for changing the entire method­ology of the course," he said. 
All professors surveyed felt that though TCE's have some weaknesses, they are still an important guarantee of in­structor accountability and source of student input. Said Rai, "The TCE is not always the most meaningful exercise, but after all is said and done, it is educational." 
The Observer 
Friday, April 28, 1989 

Suprisingly, Bush focuses on controlling guns and drugs 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-To no one's surprise, President Bush moved quickly to fulfill his campaign promise of strong ef­forts against the illegal drug trade. But to almost everyone's surprise, he also suspended im­ports of assault rifles and talked of possible federal con­trols. 
Drugs and guns have high­lighted the domestic policies of the first 100 days of the Bush administration, including an emergency plan to combat drug-related murders in the District of Columbia. 
Aleftover problem and a sud­den crisis put the spotlight on other domestic areas in the 100 days that ends Saturday, as the Republican leader moved care­fully in many other policy mat­ters. 
Bush sent a major proposal to Capitol Hill to deal with the savings and loan crisis left from the Reagan years. Congress is grin<_iing away on the bailout bill, estimated to cost $157 billion over 10 years. 
And then the Exxon Valdez ran aground, pouring oil from the giant tanker into the sea and polluting the Alaska shoreline. The administration came in for criticism for not moving fast enough to try to halt the environmental damage. Bush eventually dis­patched Transportation Secre­tary Samuel Skinner and other top U.S. officials to deal with the cleanup. 
But the president made clear from Inauguration Day that dealing with the drug problem was at the top of his agenda. 
"This scourge will stop," Bush declared, adding that it was "the most obvious" area "in which we as a society must rise up united and express our intolerance." 
The president named William Bennett the nation's drug czar, and charged him with the task of coordinating the fight. 
But almost immediately Bush's fight against drugs raised another tough issue, gun control. 
With drug dealers killing each other at a record pace in the nation's capital with semi­automatic assault-style rifles, the link to the drug trade was clear. But then a man walked into a school yard in Stockton, Calif., and opened fire with such a weapon. Five children were killed that January day. 
Bush, a lifelong member of the National Rifle Association, vowed for the first six weeks in office that he opposed any ban on the rapid-fire assault-style rifles. 
He maintained that stance even though his wife, Barbara, told The Associated Press just two weeks after her husband's inauguration that she fears guns and thinks assault weap­ons should be banned. 
Faced with a growing public outcry against the weapons, Bush relented a bit. 




Ju.Mf«i 


lf¥1? 8ti--tlul~ 
Don't Forget .Mother's Day .May 14 
We have a fine selection of Irish Claddagh Jewelery, Glassware, Perfumes, Music, Books, Videos CO's, Sun Catchers, Door Knockers, Windsocks, Mugs & Sweatshirts. 
•
•
• 
•
•
•
•
•
• 

Friday, April 28, 1989 The Observer page 9 

Associated Press 
ALBANY, N.Y.­Heavyweight boxing champion Mike Tyson received a speed­ing ticket accusing him of driving 71 mph in a 30 mph zone, police said. 
Officers pursued Tyson late Wednesday night as the boxer, in his 1989 Lamborghini, raced against a friend on a four-lane avenue. After a brief chase, police caught up with Tyson and the other driver, 22-year­old Mark Johnson of Albany, when they pulled into a parking lot. 
"We asked them for their license and registration," said arresting Officer George Maloney. "They didn't have much to say. He (Tyson) said he just arrived in town." 
Tyson, 22, and Maloney were both charged with speeding and were scheduled to appear in Albany City Court on May 9. 
Quayle praises Australia's military 
Associated Press 

MELBOURNE, Australia­Vice President Dan Quayle cel­ebrated strong U.S.-Australian relations Thursday and in par­ticular praised Australia for its military defense efforts. 
Quayle, on his second day in Australia, flew here from Can­berra, where he told a press conference the United States would like to see its friends in the Pacific pick up more of the tab for defense at a time when Washington is restraining its military budget. But he praised Australia for its efforts to en­hance security. 
"Australia has been a very, very good partner in the al­liance and has taken national security to its heart," Quayle said. 
In Melbourne, he attended a black-tie dinner marking Australian-American Friendship Week, an annual event to honor the allies' joint effort in the Battle of the Coral Sea in 1942. 
Noting that he was born in 1947, Quayle said, "I'm the first vice president to be born after World Warll." But in the tradi­tion of the Coral Sea battle, in which the allies repulsed the J a­panese, Quayle said, the two countries "must continue a re­lationship that is dedicated to keeping peace in this region." 
He did mention one dispute between the two countries, over U.S. subsidies to wheat growers in ·an export enhance­ment program that the Australians contend hurts their Hawke on Wednesday. 
"Believe me, I've heard about our trade policy and ex­port enhancement program ... in no uncertain terms not only from the prime minister but others," Quayle said. 
"It is still my belief that U.S. trade policy is not hurting Australia," he said. 
He said the United States has made "every effort" to see that Australian markets are not hurt when third countries are involved in grain trade. 
Quayle said the subsidies are not designed to hurt Australia. Instead, his aides have said they are aimed at countering subsidies that the Europeans place on their grain. 
Despite its own subsidy pro­gram, Quayle said the United States is dedicated to free trade. 
"Our objective is to have free trade. ... Our objective is to knock down barriers." 
Before leaving Canberra, Quayle visited the Tidbinbilla Space Tracking Center, a joint 
operation  between  the  
Australians  and  NASA,  the  
American space agency.  

Quayle, who is chairman of the National Space Council, made a brief telephone call to astronaut Charles Bolden in Cape Canaveral, Fla., to dis­cuss preparations for the space shuttle launch, scheduled for Friday. 
"We hope and pray every­thing goes well," Quayle told Bolden. 
The shuttle will carry in its payload a satellite to study 
wheat sales in foreign markets. Venus. The staff at the Quayle said he discussed the Australian facility will track issue with Prime Minister Bob that satellite. 
Great Dan
___ 
Roaring out of Denmark come The Sandmen­a real rock band. Five guys who know a good tune when they hear one, but aren't afraid to get their hands dirty. Western Blood is The Sandmen's first album, capturing all the crunch and kick of their infamous live shows. 
is accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Typists 
For more information, contact Janet Herold at 283-4205 or 239-5303 byMay3 
Spend $25 -SAVE hundreds 
BEFORE YOU START THAT NEW JOB 
ASK YOURSELF THESE QUESTIONS: 
1. 
Do I make a GREAT FIRST impression? 

2. 
Do I know what my IMAGE personality is? 

3. 
Do I know how to coordinate my


fj!aturing 
uHouse In The Country""* 
existing wardrobe and build on it? 
Produced by The Sandmen and Mikael Herrstrom. 
If there are any doubts -then do
•Produced by the Sandmen and Dag Lundqvlst. 
yourself a favor and contact me for 
an image consultation.
Available at: 
Gloria Carr 

THE VARSITY SHOP
TRACKS 
1639 Edison Rd. --­
1631 Edison Rd. 

South Bend,. IN 46637 ~~ 
South Bend, IN 

277-0057 ~ 

-------------~--~-------­. ~. t ' 
Viewpoint 
page 10 Friday, April 28, 1989 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Edltor-ln.Chlef Chris Donnelly Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor •••• Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager •••••••••••• Molly Killen VIewpoint Editor ••••••••••••••••• Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager .••.••. Shannon Roach Sports Editor .•••••..•.•••••.••••••Theresa Kelly Production Manager••••..••••• Alison Cocks Accent Editor ·-···-·······-·········John Blasi Systems Manager ••••••••••••• Mark Derwent Photo Editor ········-····-···········Eric Bailey OTS Dlrector••••••_•••••••••••Angela Bellanca 
Controller·····-················...·· Anne Lindner 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­versity of NoirE! Dame d•J Lac and Saint Mary"$ College. It does not necessarily-reflect the pol~~ of the ad~in~tration of either inst~ution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as poSSible. UnSJgned ed•tonals represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in.Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Convnentaries, ietters and the Inside Column pre~nt the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, IS encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 

Notre Dame needs co-ed housing 
A recent survey of students conducted by The Ob­server showed that over seven out of ten students would like to see some form of coeducational housing at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame went co-ed in 1972, but problems still exist between the sexes. Now is the time for the Uni­versity to try out coeducational housing. One aspect of campus life which inhibits a healthy relationship between the two sexes is the fact of single-sex dorms. 
The segregation of sexes into all-male and all­female dorms creates an unnatural division between them. Coeducational housing would not cure the prob­lem of relations between the sexes; it would, however, be a step in the right direction. 
Notre Dame currently has coeducational housing in its foreign studies programs. It has worked over­seas, and it would work here. 
A four-year trial period for coeducational housing, with two dorms on north quad and two dorms on south quad to transfer to become co-ed, would be the best way to start. Such housing should be single-sex by floor or section (depending upon the layout of the dorm). 
Students would be allowed to place their names in a lottery, by class, for the available spaces in these dorms. No student would be forced to live in a coeducational dorm if he or she did not wish to. 
One necessary consequence of the establishment of coeducational dorms would be the reassessment of parietals. 
The University made the first step in trying to im­
prove relations between males and females on campus in 1972, with the move to allow female stu­dents to enroll. Now is the time to make the next big move: create a system of coeducational housing. 
Viewpoint would like to occasionally highlight quotes from faculty members, students and readers. So if you or someone you know says something intellectually stimulating, brilliantly funny, or clearly controversial, send the quote to Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
DOONESBURY 
LETTERS 

Racial incident shows need for police to improve 
Dear Editor: 
For the last 10 years I have lived in the Northeast Neigh­borhood in the vicinity of the Notre Dame apartments. This neighborhood is very impor­tant to me even though there is much unrest here. 
On Saturday, March 11th some of my black friends in­vited me and a white friend from across town to a private 'get-together' across the street from my house on Corby St. They know that we are Chris­tians so we understood this could be an open door to share our faith. About 10: 45 that night we went across the street to lo­cate this gathering. We did not see or hear anybody on the whole block until the ones who had invited us opened the door to the house directly in front of us and waved us in. We imme­diately noticed that it was quiet and dark inside with maybe forty or fifty young black people. We had spent about 20 minutes getting acquainted with everybody when our atten­tion was distracted to the front 

, door. About eight white police with about five squad cars were in front of the house. The offi­cers were at the door demand­ing to be let in. The renter of the house told them she did not have to let them in since they had no search warrant. Then the police ordered her to open the door or else. She opened the door. Several white policemen came in cursing and using racial slurs. They or­dered everyone to be out in three minutes. My friend, being bolder than I, challenged the police, asking them what they were up to. They refused to acknowledge him, intimat­ing possible arrest and order­ing everyone to clear out. Then as 18-year-old Jerome Steed was wrapping his cord around his boom box the police demanded that he hurry up or be arrested. Jerome told them he needed just a little more time to get his equipment to­gether, that he was not afraid of them and that furthermore they did not have a search war­rant. This got the officer so angry that he grabbed Jerome 

by the hood of his jacket and threw him out the front door and down the steps. Three more policemen then pounced on him, crushing him to the sidewalk. They beat him on the head with their sticks and then handcuffed him. My friend and I were appalled. We started making our way back to my house thinking the police could go crazy on us as well. 
As we were walking we began talking with another man from the gathering, Han­son Austin, a 26-year-old. As we parted to go in our separate di­rections three officers rushed past us and took Hanson by the neck, subduing him in the same fashion as Jerome. Both young men were sent to the county jail. After securing bond the next morning Jerome went to St. Joseph Hospital to be checked for a possible concus­sion. 
A few weeks later I accom­panied them to their hearing where they then found out their actual charges: "resisting ar­rest" and disorderly conduct. Bear in mind that they were never declared to be under ar­rest nor were they read their rights. 
That evening my friend and I went down to the police sta­tion to get some answers. We were told that someone two doors away on Corby St. had 
. called in complaining of a 'loud' party. We found out later that this was perhaps nothing more than a crank call. It seems a lady who was throwing a different party was jealous that many more people had come to the gathering we at­tended than to hers (for which she had even distributed fliers that afternoon). Hoping to wreck the other party she called the police complaining that it was 'loud,' although we had not been able to hear any noise standing only 10 feet away from the front door. 
I think it's time to call a halt to to this type of wrongful be­havior on the part of our police. I sincerely respect our policemen, but in my view we have a situation here that can­not be ignored. After experi­encing this and hearing similar reports elsewhere in the com­munity I feel convinced that a serious attitude problem exists in our police department. 
In the Bible, Romans Chap­ter 13 twice refers to policemen as God's ministers or "ser­vants." While policemen are given a special, powerful role in our society they are at the same time accountable to God as to how they fufill this role. I believe many policemen fail to serve us as God wants them to. He ultimately will be the judge of their performance. But we, the citizens of this com­munity, are the ones who actu­ally employ these men to serve and protect us. If we don't scrutinize and oversee their performance, many people, particularly minorities, will be lorded over and not served properly. They will be abused and not protected. 
It's my responsibility before God to inform you of these things which I have seen and heard first hand. But this I realize is not without risk. My friend and I took our story before the Board of Public Safety, which oversees the police. The story appeared on all three evening newscasts and in the South Bend Tribune. After my friend and I took this story to the public he received a phone call which consisted of two words: "You're dead." The phone caller proceded to quickly hang up. My friend has tried to assure me that he thinks there is nothing to worry about, but perhaps a groundswell of public outcry throughout the community can bring an end to this alarming situation. 
Peter Helland ND Class of '78 April 24, 1989 

Addition of condoms to Commons defies logic 
Dear Editor: drug addicts, or maybe free businessperson recognizes that 
Let me announce a new ad­bullets for murderers. (People when customers complain, it dition to the Commons, what are going to kill each other means a few less beers will be was once one of my favorite anyway, and knives can be so sold. bars--condoms, for only one messy and painful.) Thanks anyway. I'll take my dollar in quarters, available in I talked to the owner about business elsewhere. both the mens' and womens' it. He said that although others restrooms. (How fitting). I look had complained as well, it was 
Les Syren

forward to the day when we basically a business decision on 
Off-campus

have needle dispensers for his part. I would think a 
April 27, 1989 
GARRY TRUDEAU 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'No one worth possessing can be quite possessed.' 
Sara Teasdale 
page 11
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 11 

Abortion: Cruel killing of the innocent 

By Patrick D. Murphy the point when the sperm unites 
with the egg... If this is not 
Pro-Life advocates have one 'life,' what is?" Dr. Nathanson primary argument against also states: "The life processes abortion that abortion adv­begin at fertilization, when the ocates do not, and cannot, ad­sperm unites with the egg to dress squarely. create a unique genetic entity 
Premise 1 : Abortion is the for each (fetus) that will never kiiling of an innocent, living be repeated." human being. The fetus is a human being. 
Premise 2: Killing innocent, The offspring of two human living human beings is wrong. beings is a human being. Left Conclusion: Abortion is undisturbed and well­wrong. nourished, the fetus will grow and develop into an old man or 
The raw fact is that abortion woman. kills an innocent, living human Pro-Abortion advocates being. Abortion kills. Before an simply evade the central ques­or that the pregnancy was the being, no more than one has the abortionists reading this arti­abortion a living fetus exists; tions of abortion: Is killing a result of rape or incest. Abor­"right" to choose to commit cle: Learn this pro-life after an abortion a fetus is fetus wrong? Is the fetus an in­tion is not about unwanted rape or to use cocaine. Abortion syllogism. dead. nocent, living human being? children or child abuse ; loving is not about economics; what On the eve of the American 
The fetus is innocent. He or Instead, they talk about every­families continue to wait to prices life? War of Independence, Thomas she (not "it") is passive. The thing but abortion: adopt a child. Abortion is not Abortion is not about Roe v. Paine wrote: "Tyranny, like fetus is acted upon by others. overpopulation, rape, incest, about the quality of life; life is Wade. Abortion still kills inno­Hell, is not easily conquered; The fetus did not intend to be unwanted children, child more valuable than material cent, living human beings, just yet we have this consolation in the mother's womb, nor abuse, "the quality of life," the possessions are. as it did before the 1973 Su­with us, that the harder the con­could he or she do anything to right of privacy, the death Nor is abortion about preme Court decision. (The flict the more glorious the tri­prevent being there. The fetus penalty, choice, economics, the privacy; no one has the "right" Fourteenth Amendment states umph." Abortion, like Hell, is is a victim. Constitution, women's rights. to kill innocent human beings, in part: " ...nor shall any state not easily conquered, but it is 
The fetus is alive. As Dr. Ber­Abortion is not about over­not even for the sake of protect­deprive any person of life, li­conquerable. nard Nathanson states in his population; having an abortion ing a "privacy" interest. Abor­berty, or property without due Patrick D. Murphy is a 1985 book Aborting America: in Indianapolis is not going to tion is not about capital punish­process of law." Leave it to the graduate of Notre Dame and a "There is an independent, self­save a starving child in Africa ment; abortion kills innocent, Supreme Court to make arbi­graduate of the Indiana Uni­initiating biological entity from or lessen overcrowding in In-living human beings, not guilty trary and vague distinctions versity School of Law. 
Alumni clubs promote close ties to ND 
As a young alum, the local volved as an officer or direc­offer. In San Diego, for in­tion on campus for the name of By Julie A. Pietras Notre Dame club can be an ex­tor? I have served as the young stance, we have young alumni the club president in your area cellent way for you to get to alumni director, corresponding happy hours, football game and take advantage of what 
"I'm too young to be an know other Domers in your secretary, member Of the watching parties, and offer a your local Notre Dame club has alum," you might say, or "I city. If you're moving to a new alumni schools committee and variety of ways to become in­to offer! Best of luck to all of just got used to this place. I city, call the club, and they now as membership secretary. volved with community service you, and we in San Diego hope can't think of leaving yet." The should be able to provide you Not only have these positions projects. Young alums can also to be seeing a few of you fact is, though, it's just about with a young alumni contact so helped me stay in touch with work with our alumni schools graduates out west. that time--time to enjoy those that you can get involved with the University and meet a lot committee as well as a variety By the way, I finally started last few weeks under the different activities and meet of contacts, but I have found of other committies in the club. to make enough money to Golden Dome and start think-others in the area. that they have also helped me If you are heading out this way donate, and yes, I cracked ing about what lies ahead. Just as Notre Dame offers to develop different skills, after graduation, feel free to down and bought a pair of plaid 
It was only two years ago ways to become involved in the skills that helped me to handle contact club president Jim Ken­pants. that I was in your shoes, think-community, so do a majority different responsibilities in my nedy or myself, Julie Pietras, ing that I was too young to be of the local clubs. You'll find workplace. to get more information. If you an alum, didn't have any that clubs will sponsor various As you can see, the local are headed to another city, Julie A. Pietras is a 1987 money to donate, and that I'd community service projects Notre Dame clubs have a lot to check with the alumni associa-graduate of Notre Dame. never be caught dead in plaid from tutoring children to paint­pants. The adjustment from ing houses, to working with the 
LETTERS
student to alum has worked out handicapped. This is a great very well for me and it's way to continue with the spirit largely due to my involvement of what makes Notre Dame so Apartheid Week educates about crucial issue with my local alumni club. I've special: its community aware-been able to participate in ness and involvement. Dear Editor: How can it be conducted and ploration of these issues in an some fantastic events and Your local Notre Dame club I would like to clarify the in-with what concurrent pre­academic setting. The univer­really keep in touch with what's will also h'ave an alumni tent of the Student Union ssures in order to be effective? sities should be a place where happening at Notre Dame by schools committee. Do you re-Board's Apartheid Awareness Has Notre Dame missed a such exploraton is undertaken, working with the Notre Dame member that person who came Week, in light of The Obser­"teaching moment" by not and at a school like Notre Club of San Diego. Since my out and spoke about Notre ver's editorial of Tuesday, leading the way in exploring Dame, which aspires to such experience has been such a Dame at your high school? Well April 11. what can be done to end apar­high educational ideals and good one, I wanted to share it it could be you now! This is a I think The Observer has theid? What reponsibility for Catholic social responsibility,with you alums to be, to let you great way for you to stay in done a disservice to the Notre awareness of its students and even more so. After the week know what's available for you touch with the University by Dame community in its the population, comes with has come and gone, who will after you leave South Bend and going to local high schools and coverage of the week as a Notre Dame's power, prestige, pick up this challenge? What how to go about getting in-speaking to prospective stu-whole. In reporting the news, and influence? does the University have on its volved. dents. Not only does it let you one has a reponsibility to These are some things which agenda for the next six or 
Most of you have probably relive your good times at Notre clearly inform one's readers. should be discussed in "the in­twelve months to discuss, relat­been exposed to your local Dame, but it really helps young Not one article by The Obser­dependent (and only) paper ing to its action against apar­Notre Dame clubs though a stu-people with their decision by ver staff actually explored the serving Notre Dame and Saint theid, among itself or with the dent send-off or some type of enabling them to speak with complex questions surrounding Mary's" for it is the only source faculty and students? Who will similar function, but the local someone who was a recent stu-the issue. For example: of news many students read. explore these issues, save the alumni clubs offer so much dent. What can the individual do to Some of these questions were handful of people in the few more than you've seen up to I have probably saved the help people who suffer right actually answered in the classes which relate to South this point. Notre Dame has one best for last. Aside from all of now under apartheid while gov­week's events. Mr. Edra Sig­Africa? How will the Notre of the strongest Alumni As-the wonderful service aspects, ernments and institutions ex­wela, an 11-year prisoner of the Dame media inform its readers sociations in the nation, and be-employment help, and contacts plore the larger problems and South African government, now that there are no events to coming involved with the local that your local club can offer, search for answers? was freed by the efforts of Am­talk about? What does the clubs is an excellent way for the clubs have many social ac-While Notre Dame claims it nesty International and to a average "Notre Dame stu­you to take advantage of this tivities planned throughout can have more influence in large extent, by the letters sent dent" know, even now, about and keep up your ties with the each year. Most clubs plan South Africa through its invest­from many Notre Dame stu­these issues? University. game watching parties, happy ments than without them, what dents. There are many more 
Local alumni clubs provide hours, road trips to games, golf have the companies we have in­prisoners and many more let­The Student Union Board an excellent source of contacts, tournaments, dinners and din-vested in specifically done to ters that could be written. Mr. agrees with one thing in The especially for young alums. ner dances, to name a few make things better, and how Donald Woods also encouraged Observer's editorial: that Most clubs have some type of events. These activities are an many blacks do "our" corpo­participating in our represen­"awareness alone ... will solve informal job referral program excellent way for you, as a rations actually affect and tative government by sending nothing." But nothing will be in place where resumes are recent graduate, to meet new have control over? letters to congressmen regard­solved without awareness. either published in the newslet-faces as well as continue those What specific approaches ing the upcoming vote on a ter or opportunities. Even for relationships with old friends. can be effective in bringing the stronger U.S. sanctions .bill. young alumns who already Joining and participating in South African government to Brian A. Reilly have jobs, the contacts that your local Notre Dame club is the bargaining table to end In our panel discussion, Dean Board Manager 88-89 you'll meet through the club wonderful, but even better yet, apartheid? As far as divest-Link of the Law School stressed Student Union Board 
. . w~y n~t copsid~r. ~eCQQli.ng in-. . m~r:tt is.co.nc~rp.ed) is.it viable? the importance of continued ex-~pr,il.2.5, 19~9 

fri. 
MOVIES 

"Married to the Mob" r 
Engineering Auditorium, 8, 10:15 p.m. 
"Jean De Florette" Annenburg, 7:30 and 9:45 p.m. 
MUSIC 

Center Street Blues Billy Sticks Nicks & theN's & Out's performing at 9:30p.m. Admission 1s $4 or free with dmner. 
CHICAGO 
Edie Brickell 
& the New Bohemians 8 p.m. at the Arie Crown Theater, McCormick Place 
Shakil}g Family 
& the Eisenhowers 7 p.m. Cover is $6. Cabaret Metro at 3730 N. Clark 
sat. 
MOVIES 

"Big" Engineering Auditorium, 8 and 10:15 p.m. 
MUSIC 

Center Street Blues Tinsley Ellis performing at 9:30 p.m. Admission is $4 or free with dinner. 
CHICAGO 
Firehose, Screaming Trees, and Dos Starts at 7:30p.m. $10 admission Cabaret Metro at 3730 N. Clark 
sun.
MUSIC 

The Collegium Musicum Sponsorea by the University of Notre Dame Department of Music at the Annenberg Auditorium, 4 p.m. 
CAMPUS 
South Quad Picnic/ Jam Festival Boathouse Blues Band, Youth in Asia Calcutta Rain, Life is Elsewhere. Each band will play for an hour starting at 2 p.m. in front of the Rock 


ACCENT STAFF 
L 
ocated at 601 N. 
Niles A venue and 
South Bend's oldest 
Italian restaurant, 
Sunny Italy Cafe richly deserves both its lon­
gevity and its multitude of 
loyal patrons. 
Upon entering the bustling yet warmly inviting dining room, you will immediately sense that Sunny Italy is the epitome of the classic "family-style" Italian restau­rant. On the front of the menu is written, "To us cooking is an art and we're very proud of the fact that our recipes have endured through many generations." Indeed, everything here is carried out with such grace and effortless style that one can easily understand why Sunny Italy is filled to capacity on a weekend eve­ning. 
Traditional red and white table cloths cover the tables, and the dining room walls display unobtrusive yet eye­catching landscapes. The lighting is intimately dim without making it impossible to discern the contents of your meal. The patrons ap­peared to be an array of col­lege students, families, and older couples who have been returning since it opened in 1925. It would seem that cleanliness, and pleasant, ef­ficient service are the basic tenets of Sunny Italy's entrepreneurial philosophy. 
Garden salads accompany every dinner, which range 

South Bend pizza hits the spot 
STEPHANIE SNYDER 
accent writer 
W 
hattypeof 
food do most col­
lege students 
spend money 
on? What type of boxes continually litter the dorm hallways? What type of food goes great with beer? The-answer to these questions is obvious: pizza. 
If so much money (and stomach space) is spent on this Italian-American concoc­tion, it would be beneficial to provide students with a few alternatives to the old favorites such as Domino's, Pizza Hut, and Little Ceasar's. 
These not-so-well-known al­ternatives include Bruno's, Rocco's, and Noble Roman's. Each of these pizza joints are "sit down and enjoy your meal" restaurants which serve other Italian entrees, sandwiches, and alcohol as well. 
The first, Bruno's, creates not only great pizza, but also an extremely comfortable at­mosephere. Being decorated with unique paintings, Italian flags, and other Italian in­fluenced art, momentarily transports one out of South Bend's culture. 

from about $5 to $9, but can be ordered with ala carte dishes for a nominal charge. Unspectacular greens are handsomely dressed with Sunny Italy's own creations. Appetizers include a hearty 
antipasto, which features a 
noteworthy selection of meats 
and cheeses, or splendidly 
grilled, thick slices of garlic 
bread if you just want to whet 
your appetite. 

Although the selection of entrees at Sunny Italy empha­sizes pasta, there are endless possibilities to escape a mun­dane spaghetti dinner. For in­stance, the spaghetti is served not only with meat­balls but with sausage, mush­room, or olive oil and garlic sauce as well. The sausage sauce was generously laden with spicy chunks of meat, and the hint of garlic and onion provided a flavorful but not overpowering comple­ment. 
Mostaccioli is the pasta of choice at Sunny Italy and can be ordered with an equally appealing variety of sauces. The ravioli is plump with fresh fillings and may be or­dered in half portions with a spaghetti entree on the other half of the plate. Hot bread is provided, crusty on the out­side and meltingly soft inside, although we were not offered another basket and would have welcomed it voracious­ly. 
In addition to pasta dishes, Sunny Italy serves a few seafood entrees, the most al­luring of which is the shrimp scampi. The chef's masterful touch with spices should en-
only need to visit Bruno's. 
Two warnings: first, due to the largeness of the sizes, one should make it a point to ask the waiter or waitress what size pizza should be ordered to satisfy the group. Secondly, the wait will tend to be lengthy. 
For those who enjoy thick, doughy crusts, plenty of moz­zarella, and toppings that are heaped on in a pizza almost the size of a car tire, they 
Economically, Bruno's serves more pizza in compari­son to equivalently priced pizza around town -and to most students' surprise, they deliver. 
Another alternative, Noble Roman's, looks like a Pizza Hut dressed up in the colors of the Italian flag. 
Their pan and hand-tossed pizzas are thick but light, crispy, and virtually grease­free. However, the tomato sauce and even the toppings are not too spicy. 
On the up side, Noble Roman's invented The Mas­terworks: a pizza created for those who are not content un­less the pizza has every top­ping on it. The Masterworks is piled high with nine top­pings including, Italian saausage, pepperoni, mush­rooms, ground beef, ham, sure that the excessive lemon flavor often encountered will be tempered to perfection. The seafood dishes range from about $8 to $13, and can be ordered with a side plate of spaghetti. The scallops, trout, lobster and chicken cacciatori sounded inviting and quite reasonably priced. 
Although our food was flaw­lessly prepared and ex­quisitely spiced the portions could have been a little larger for the price. One superb bar­gain was the desserts, each of which falls under $2. They are all homemade and fea­ture cannoli, bisque tortoni, and spumoni among the offer­ings. 

Our waitress, who was thoroughly professional and amiable, allowed us to un­wind a bit after dinner and provided us with as much free coffee as two coffee lovers could possibly drink. 
No one seems to be in a h .......,J. to leave Sunny Italy and the 
staff ensures that you are not intimidated into leaving 
before you feel fully satisfied. 
In spite of the crowd, both dining and waiting to be seated, the proprieters seem to have mastered their art. Nobody is left waiting for an inordinate amount of time, yet nothing appears rushed either. If the patrons during our visit are any indication of its popularity, Sunny Italy is no secret to the South Bend community and promises to be an excellent choice the next time you hunger for an Italian meal. 
green peppers, bacon, onions, and black olives (anchovies free upon request). 
One last alternative to the regular pizza deliveries is a small but quaint restaurant entitled Rocco's. 
Here the atmosphere is ex­tremely relaxed and the waiters and waitresses are exceptionally personable. They make sure you're taken care of -never even allowing a water glass to empty. 
The style of the pizza is unique to South Bend. The crust is very thin and wonder­fully crispy. The cheese is al­most blended with the tomato sauce (which tastes homemade) to form a some­what soupy, yet tasty sauce. 
The Italian Sausage, which is homemade, is a popular topping. In addition, all of . their toppings are fresh, or I should say, as they do on their menu, "positively not frozen." 
Getting off campus to dis­cover new and tasty restau­rants can be exciting as well as just a good break from a monotonous day of classes, studying, and dining hall food. Bruno's, Noble Roman's and Rocco's are some fun suggestions for those pizza lovers who desire a change of scenery. 


Friday, April 28, 1989 
SCOTT KAHNEY accent writer 

I 
felt excited and scared when I got 
ready to hit the 
bars in Chicago 

last Friday. I felt both a sense of silly camaraderie and of pitiful loneliness. I was out of my environment. 
Normally my forays into Chicago take me to dark, passion-filled blues bars. These are bars where you know no one's name and you don't really want to. For this road trip, however, I gave in to the "Rush Street" men­tality and prepared myself for an expensive night of bar­hopping with Chicago's best. 
The evening began at Poet's, which is located at 5 
W. Division St. This bar was probably quite typical for the whole Division St. menagerie. The decor was something be­tween post-modern iridescent funk and cheesy ivy league snobbery. 
Neon lights existed side by side with dark wood paneling. Somewhere in the foggy depths of my mind I remem­ber a mirror lined dance floor clashing beautifully with something very strange. I think it was a chandelier made from deer antlers. 
After several "two-for-one" rounds of gin and tonics, I went next door to Bootleg­ger's. Admittedly, I was en­ticed by the free shot coupon I had been given by the boun­cer. Sure enough, this bar, which was tackier than Poet's, did give free shots, They were-so small you could only fit two fingers on the glass--and that's just too dog­gone small! There also didn't seem to be much alcohol in their kamikazee mix. 
Not to be daunted by my 
failure at Bootlegger's, I left 
Division and headed to 
Kronies at 18 E. Bellevue. I 
knew the short walk was 
worth it when I saw a woman 
do an upside-down margarita. 
To begin, she lay back on the 
bar and had four differ• nt 
bottles of liquid, (tea1· •, 
triple sec, lime juict , ...nd 
sour mix,) poured into her 
open mouth. She then sat up, 
swirled the contents of her 
mouth around, and swallowed 
with a satisfied smile. Desir­
ing to partake in this exciting 
ritual, I too did an upside­
down margarita. Though ex­
pensive at $3, this was . Kronies speciality 
Kronie's was smaller and 
more intimate than the other 
bars and had much more per­
sonality. Whether you go 
there for upside-down mar­
garitas, nasty hot chicken 
wings, or for their "DJ with 
no dance floor," you'll enjoy 
yourself. 
For some silly reason, I left 
Kronies and returned to Divi­
sion St. and a bar called She­
Nannigans. By this time it 
was late and the crowd was 
thin. This bar had sports 
decor, complete with several 
t.v.'s and a basketball cage. I 
don't really remember much 
else about this place besides 
the fact that they served 
wickedly good Long Island 
iced teas and that my date 
and I were the only people 
dancing for over 30 minutes. 
After a long, round-about 
walk through the streets of 
Chicago, I made it back to 
my hotel. I had survived Divi­
sion St. I had even had a good 
time. My pockets were quite 
a bit emptier than they had 
been several hours earlier, 
but my belly and head were 
much fuller. Was it a fair 
trade? I guess so. 
an tostal calendar of events 


Frivolous Friday, April 28 Sunny Saturday, April 29 
JelloToss Road Rally

Alumni Hall, 12:30 p.m. 

Front of Alumni-Senior Club, 9:00 a.m. 
licorice Eating 

"I Can't Believe" 5K and lOK Runs
K of C, 12:45 p.m. 

Stepan Center, 9:00am. Hot Pepper Eating 
Can Building Alumni Hall, 12:45 p.m. 
Stepan Center, 10:00 a.m. Tye-Dye 
Kite Flyin ·Walsh, 12:30-3:30 p.m. 
Stepan ~ld, 10:00-11:00 a.m. Frisbee GoJf
Stong Person 

Around St. Mary's Lake, 10:00 a.m.
South Quad, 12:30..3:30 p.m. 

Mud Volleyball Finals Marshmallow Stuffing 
White Field, 11:00 a.m. Alumni Hall. 1:00 p.m. 
Picnic Matress Drag 

Stepan Fields, 11:00 a.m. 
Umbo
South Dinipg Hall, 1:15 p.m. 

Stepan Fields, 11:30 a.m.
Munchkin Madness Fresh Sqpeezed

Fisher Hall, 1:30 p.m. 

Ste_Qan Field, 11:45 a.m.
Egg Drop E& Roll

Dillon Hall, 1:45 p.m. 

-stepan Field, 11:45 a.m. 
Pie-In-Face Apple Bob and Pass 

Alumni Hall, 2:00 p.m. 


Stepan Field, Noon Egg Toss 
Balloon Toss Fr. Sorin Statue, 2:00p.m. 
Stepan Field, Noon Tire Rolling 
Wheelbarrow Race South Dining Hall, 2:15 p.m. 
Stepan Field, 12:10 p.m.Bucket BriJlade
Pie Eating · 

Stepan Field, 12:10 p.m.
Alumni Hall, 2:15 p.m. 

Potato Spoon RelayJump Rope 
SteJm.ll Field, 12:20 p.m.
South Dining Hall, 2:30p.m. 

SackKace
Toilet Paper Unrolling 

Stepan Field, 12:20 p.m.
Dillon Hall, 2:30 p.m. 

Three-Leeled RaceCereal Eating, 2:45 p.m. 
Stepan Field, 12:30 n.m.
Alumni Hall, 2:45p.m. 

Dizzy b:zy Wet Clothes RelayNetf Basketball 
Sterpan Field, 12:30 p.m.South Quad, 2:45p.m. 
Sli and Slide 
Popcorn Eating 

~epan Field, 12:40 p.m. Fisher Hall, 3:00 p.m. 
In Your Face Obstacle Course 
Stepan Field, 12:40 p.m. South Dining Hall, 3:15p.m. 
Chariot Procession/Mud Pits 
Comedy Improv/lmpersonations 

Wash. Hall-White Field, 12:45 p.m.
Rockne Stage, 3:45 p.m. 

Mud Pillow FightsCharity Auction 
White Field, 1:05 p.m.
Rockne Stage, 4:30p.m. 

Mud Chariot Races
Recess Stepan Center, 8:00-11:00 p.m. 

White Field, 1:15 p.m. Mud Tug-of-War White Field, 1:35 p.m. Greased Twister Stepan Field, 2:30 p.m. Tricycle Races Stepan Field, 2:45 p.m. Obstra-draw Stepan Field, 2:40 p.m. 

June 29 
July 4 
July 5 
July 7 
July 9 
July 12 July 16 July 18 July 19 July 21 July 25 July 27 
July 29 July 30 August 5 August 8 August 11 August 13 August 15 August 18 August 22 August 26 August 28 August 30 
.#'­
•0 

~iants Stadium, N.J. 0 Civic Center, Hartford, Conn.
• 
Olympic Stadium, Montreal, Canada RFK St13-dium, Washington, D.C. 
• 
0 Vets Memorial, Philadelphia Sullivan Stadium, Foxboro, Mass. .,. Three River Stadium, Pittsburgh Rich Stadium, Buffalo, N.Y. 
0 Cleveland Stadium, Cleveland, Ohio Alpine Valley, E. Troy, Wis. Silverdome, Pontiac, Mich. Carter Stadium, Raleigh, N.C. Tampa Stadium, Tampa, Fla. ­Joe Robbie Stadium, Miami Arrowhead Stadium, Kansas City, Mo. Lakewood Amphitheater, Atlanta Busch Stadium, St. Louis Folsom Field, Boulder, Colo. Salt Place, Salt Lake City, Utah 
B.C. Place, Vancouver, Canada Jack Murphy Stadium, San Diego, Calif. 
L.A. Coliseum, Los Angeles """' 
• 
(Site N/A) Phoenix, Arizona Oakland Stadium, Oakland, Calif. 
page 14 etc. Friday, April 28, 1989 
Aging curmudgeons and how they grew 
T 
here is no end to the you want to understand the stories of aging cur­generation gap which is dis­mudgeons, and how they rupting the Church. I'm tel­grow. In the Naked City, ling you of my life and times there are eight million cur­as an emerging curmedgeon, mudgeons flourishing like the hoping it will serve you as a prophets who leave their mes­landmark in your Catholic sage written on the subway education. wall. I'm an aging cur­"Your old men shall dream mudgeon myself; what is dreams," wrote the prophet more, I'm a clerical cur­Joel, "and your young men mudgeon, and nobody can be (and women) shall see vi­more tiresome than that. Suf­sions." I take that to mean ferance, as Shakespeare that all of us, as Christians, 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 


might say, is the badge of all my tribe. Hath not a cur­rr..udgeon eyes? Hath not a curmudgeon hands, organs, senses, affections, passions? Fed with the same food, hurt with the same weapons, sub­ject to the same diseases, healed by the same means as any younger Christian is? 
The grand truth of the mat­ter is, if you blow affec­tionately into his withered ear, the aging curmedgeon in search of human understanding--no matter how tedious he is as a self­opinionated old poop--will fol­Io'· you anywhere. Beneath his carapace, the aging cur­mudgeon is nothing more than a kind-hearted, narrow­

,__ 
minded boy who has grown a shell. In curmudgeonliness, then, simply a case study in geriatrics? You could call it that, unless, as a Catholic, have a hold on the truth. Here in academe, where an exchange of ideas is going on, on the grass-roots level, nei­ther the young or the old should want to claim to be infallible in his or her grasp of the truth. Why, then, when we argue, do we sound in­tolerant, wanting to make those who disagree with us sound like fools? 
"When I was one-and­twenty1 I heard a wise man say/Give crowns and pounds and guineas13ut not your heart away .. .'."When I was young and twenty, I was in my salad days as a Catholic, green of judgement, in­tolerant of the follies of the world. 
. In those days, I relied heav­ily on the triumphalistic texts that the apologists loved: "Thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my 
lr=ll 

Church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven..." At age 63, I'm much more at peace with faith, and those Bible verses now remind me of a young man's ranting and raving, in his determination to be right with God. I'm happy believ­ing the words of our Lord in His discourse at the Last Sup­per: "Let not your hearts be troubled.. .In my Father's house are many mansions... If a man loves me, he will keep my words; and my Fa­ther will love him, and we shall come unto him, and make our abode with him ..." Could words so beautiful be anything but truthful? I ac­cept Jesus as the shepherd of the world. I believe He is from God because His gospel is so powerful. 
On your way to becoming an old man mellowness sets in. If you're lucky, you keep remembering what it was like when you were a young man seeing visions. Visions--which refer to things in the future that are not yet, or imaginary things that will never be--are good. But now that I'm older, I judge that dreams are bet­ter, because dreams are images of truth that come to you from a well-remembered past. Sometimes old men who live with dreams find them­selves upstaged by young visionaries, who imagine they find the figures of an apocalypse in the shapes of clouds on summer afternoons. 
Then the old sheep are duty­bound to bark at the young sheep as though these seniors were watch-dogs guarding the fold; however those oversee­ing the flock shouldn't lead to anything more serious than a lover's quarrel. So, for exam­ple, when you hear me clear­ing my throat warningly when Catholic visionaries start sounding like televan­gelists, prophesying gloom and d nm, that throat­cleari. is not necessarily a symptom of my becoming a curmudgeon. Why should I be considered a cantankerous old f--t when I remind the visionaries that the "wrathful God" is an Old Testament God, and not the God of per­fect love manifested at Beth­lehem and Calvary? Isn't Julian of Norwich classically orthodox when she reminds us uncompromisingly that "Our Lord was never angry, nor ever shall be," or that "He cannot be angry. It would be impossible." 
In my life as a cur­mudgeon, do you know who I find tiresome? It's the young men who act old, probably because they have never dreamed a dream, or had vi­sions. If they had, they'd be sensitive in listening to an old timer, saying what it means to believe in Christ. You'd think that in an ideal Mysti­cal Body, the old would listen to the young, and that the young would return the cour­tesy. When that doesn't hap­pen, both groups are losers. The young have the choice of becoming dropouts. The old, hurt because they're ignored, turn into curmudgeons, deep into bitterness and self pity. 
I run scared of becoming a dyed-in-the-wool curmudgeon. At my age, I'm in the last phase of the moon as a chaplain -living among stu­dents. "Twilight and evening bell! And after that the dark!" I wouldn't want you to think I'm whimpering, for I have more grace under pres­sure than that. I'd like to warn you of this, being un­sure of yourself--being unsure of what you should say, or do with your life--isn't the prerogative of only the young. I'm not ashamed to say that all my life long, I've been un­sure of myself, just as I have always needed a night-light to sleep by. That's why I dislike fools who will not listen be­cause they have all the answers I will ever need, so they tell me, even in matters that are highly questionable. The Catholic Church has been full of the know-it-alls since Vatican II. If there weren't so many of them, the prospects for old age would be pleasanter for priests, who could then retire with dignity as elders, instead of being pushed out the door as cur­mudgeons. 
Believe it or not, the vision I have of all of you--as the young and the beautiful with dreams of inheriting the earth--always stay fresh. That is why Darby O'Gill and I have never said we didn't love you. 

lr=ll ·-=--~
·~~' lliiiilliiiil! 
I 

BOSTON ··~ 
Are you coming to Boston this summer? The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Boston welcomes you to the land of the Red Sox, Celtics, The Freedom Trail and the most exciting nightlife in the Northeast! We offer social events, community service opportunities, help with job placement and 
just plain fun! Look for our table at the SENIOR PICNIC I 
...... 
and talk with Club Treasurer Brian Gallagher and Club Vice President John Rudser or you can contact the Club at 
P.O. Box 887 Boston, MA 02103 
See you in Boston! 
11i511 
lliiiilliiiilffiiillfiij]l 

Friday, April 28, 1989. The Observer page 15 
car will play in place of Lou points in the past two games, It's just something about
Laundry 
Holtz Friday, but it doesn't but at 6'10" he's the in­being the top seed and the matter because of one man­timidator, the equalizer and defending champs that turns 
continued from page 24 
Jim Dolan. the deciding factor rolled into people against you. Maybe they Murphy's Bar vs. Fugitive one. Prostitution by five. deserve it because of the Holly­
hand-delivered a wake-up call to Adwork's Wednesday. Guys Finale: This will be the With Andy Heck muscling wood style pre-game dunking 
Adwork's won't let it be that finale for Fugitive Guys. With Van Dyke, Malicious Prostitu­(Where did Ricky Watters close again. It will sting the all five players, Murphy's is tion will need to rely on its ex­come from?) or maybe the fans Bees early and win 21-14. unbeatable--until the semifinal perience, but Murphy's will are just jealous of not being 
Coach's vs. Mlnahoonles: round that is. Murphy's by five. counter with depth and bal­able to do it. At any rate, it will show up Sunday. 
This will be the best game in Malicious Prostitution vs. No ance. Experience wins, 24-22 the quarterfinals. Minahoonies "I" In Team: Malicious Prostitu­In Saturday's semifinals, the Adwork's will jump out early is a team with new life after tion has the experience, while depth of Adwork's will be too and quiet the crowd with a 5-1 
that 30-28 victory in the Round No "I" in Team has the fans. much for Coach's. Dolan still lead, but will not roll ot the title. of 32,. while Coach's is a team Neither will matter because of gets the MVP and Mr. Malicious Prostitution is too 
with as many identities as one player--Pete Van Dyke. Bookstore, though, after he good to let that happen. Mali­Fletch. The name probably is not scores 12 in a losing cause. Ad­cious Prostitution will rally to Either Jay Hayes or Ned Bol-familiar. He has scored two work's by three. win, 21-18. 

OF THE YEAR! $59S
~ SUIAIER 

WATERBEDS•MATTRESSES SNAKESKIN M 999 SHOES ­
SHEETS • ACCESSORIES • MORE SHOES,: I ..,.._, 
STEREO& Classic 
CAR STEREO ·swreo 
REGENCY 
RADAR 
DET£CTOR 
-100 

.-.... -.........~S49B5 
EXAMPLES OF-INCREDIBLE SAVINGS CAR ALARMS 
ANSWERING AlPINE PIONEEER 

-s99 
MACHINES ~Al :o.~TT IICROWAVE RfVERSE CARSPEAKEFIS OVENS 
, ~6 70%oFF S29 S'J99 S391PR S49 
~,.,,___ 
..~~.. 
.-.~..A.-. ~~ftl·* 

SHUMANN FACTORY AUTHORIZED SALE ACID WASHED & 
MEN'S & LADIES' REFRIGERATORS • MICROWAVES 
SAVE~S1000 OF CONSOLE AND GRAND PIANOS
lVs • VCRs ·MUCH MORE 

JII!W COIISOI.E SEVERAL MOOELS AVAILABLE BUGLE BOY & BON 
GLACIER WASHED 

RCA • QUAISAR • MAGIC CHEF PIANOS LIMITED QUANTITIES 
S11B9 2FORS20119 ~~
$49Pici0.4."~->.,:;~,, .. 
GENERA MINISKIRTS 
MUCH E 
,, BEST PRICES

S599 S799 ,._...... 
..c:ill...,...,,......

~ c:;..,...,pl17g
.......,p,...,..,.. 

(!:LECTROLU~ ACADEMY •WENZEL •CAMEL •MORE 
MEN'S &WOMEN"S 3ts.ADULT SLEEPING BAGS
LEATHER JACKETS 

..sr--S48 288 S1Q 
2-Motor Upright

FULL AIR· 2-PERSOH 
CONDITIONING New EleciroiUl Compleie 
DOME TENTS 

SERVICE Wilh ALL Alilchments 
l'ACU--·

S29BS S25
='199
CENTRAL.._ VACWII S44G 
;::v S39


co::~:~~ S24950ISCQUNTS srsmr ..!l CABIN TENTS MUCH MORE 
1=~&~.-Jnii'C::&I.-.. 
UYIHGROOMS 
BEDROOMS •DINEllES

BEDDIN~ 
RECUNERS·COUCHES•LANPS TABLES •ACCESSORIES •MORE

LIQUI~RS I 
FAIIOUS IIAHUFACTURERSIIICUJIII!IG: 
CONTINENTAL CRAFT

MATTRE~ES ~~ CLAYBROOK•2mhCENTURY 
BROYHIU •BA.SSETf 
ASHLEY •MORE

DAYBEDS ~
S28 
_sss ~~ss
WICKER S391 
HAMPERS­
BED S19 BUNK BEDS
4 twfEREHT 5CZES :· 
HEADBOARDS
WC/1180111!< 


The Observer I E.G. Bailey Bookstore action con eludes this weekend. 
Bees 
continued from page 24 

off what would undoubtedly be the biggest upset of the tourn­ament. Adworks will run away from the Bees, 21-15. 
Coach's vs. Mlnahoonles: Co­ach's is one of those teams that doesn't really impress you at first, but somehow finds a way to win in the second half. Its big gun is Jim Dolan, but his teammates have had trouble getting him the ball underneath lately. Minahoonies has a couple of big guys of its own in Sean Connor and Tom Gorman, and a great shooter in J.C. Trybus. Coach's will fall, 21-19. 
No "I" In Team vs. Malicious Prostitution: Malicious Pros­titution, the second entry from Notre Dame's law school, was expected to dominate for much of the tournament, and it's lived up to expectations. No "I" in Team surprised a lot of people with its team-oriented approach, but it doesn't have the size or the firepower to stay with Malicious Prostitution. Chalk one up for the law stu­dents, 21-17. 
Murphy's Bar vs. Fugitive Guys Finale: The Observer has been criticized for its tendency to center its Bookstore coverage on teams with foot­ball players. But Murphy's Bar would not be anywhere near its present tournament position without the contributions of gridders Andy Heck and Steve Belles, and former Irish player Aaron Robb. Murphy's will roll in this one, 21-14. 
In the semifinal round, Minahoonies will give Adworks a run for its money, but it will have to play flawlessly on of­fense in order to stop Adworks' splendid transition game. Go with Adworks, 21-16. Malicious Prostitution will close down Murphy's Bar in the other semifinal game, 21-18. 
Adworks, already battle­
tested earlier in the tourna­
ment against the Good, the Bad 
and the Laundry, will be ready 
for a war against Malicious 
Prostitution. 
Rice will drive the lane for a 
tournament-clinching slam 
only to find himself up against .• 
Malicious Prostitution's 
defense specialist, Pete Van 
Dyke. But he will dish the ball 
off to Johnson in the corner, 
who will hit a soft jumper to 
seal the victory, 26-24. 

~~pa~g~e~16~----------------------------------------------T~he~O~b~s=e~N~e~r----------------------------------------~•'~id=~~y~,~A~p~~~"~2~8,~1~9~8=9 
Federal judge resigns from case related to Rose 
Associated Press der with the court clerk, taking Spiegel. No sentencing date of impropriety is as damning baseball was engaging in a ven­himself off the case of Ronald was set. as impropriety itself. This detta against Rose; all but one 
CINCINNATI--A federal Peters, who said he took bets Linda D. Kloth, chief admin­removed any doubt from Mr. said the judge should disqualify judge disqualified himself from Rose. istrator of federal court in Cin­Peters sentencing," she said. himself from the Peters case. Thursday from a case involv­"The...case is hereby cinnati, said Rubin removed ing an Ohio bookmaker linked returned to the clerk of this himself from the case because Rubin, the chief District Three of the five professorsto Pete Rose, one day after law court for the procedure of reas­"he just felt there was an ap­Court judge, had no comment, contacted by The Associated professors said he should step signment," the order said. pearance of impropriety." 
Kloth said. Press said Rubin violated the 
down for remarks defending Rubin, who was to sentence "I can tell you that he was American Bar Association's the Cincinnati Reds manager. Peters on tax evasion and drug concerned about all the media 
On Wednesday, five law Code of Judicial Conduct be­
U.S. district Judge Carl B. trafficking charges, was attention, and the judge has al­school professors criticized cause he publicly commented rubin filed a one-sentence or-replaced by Judge S. Arthur ways believed the appearance Rubin, who last Friday said on the Rose investigation. 
The Observer accepls class1f1eds every bus1ness day from 10 am. un111 4 p m al the Noire Dame off1ce. 314 LaFortune and from 12 30 until 3 p m at the Sam! Maris off1ce. Haggar College Center Deadl•ne for next· day class1f1eds 1s 3 p m All class•fleds must
Classifieds 
be prepa1d The charge IS 10 cenls per f•ve characters per day. 
NOTICES  SUB-LEASING TURTLE TWNHOUSE IF INTERESTED TIMDAN x1066 or LANCE x2458  CR. CALL  SONY Stereo, Wlcarousel CD and cabinet. Great for dorm. x234·6497 1918 Notre Dame Dome Yearbook.  JUNIORS JUNIORS HAND IN COMPLETED PROFILE FORM TO CAREER & PLACEMENT  BARBARA BILLINGSLY'S OINTMENT McCormick's Friday night 10-2 Last Notre Dame Appearance ever HOORAY AT LAST! Our record Is now  TO THE ONE I WISH TO SPEND EVERY NIGHT WITH. HOW DOES MINTCHIP ICECREAM, A BUBBLE BATH, BABY OIL, WHITE SATIN SHEETS. ICE  
TYPING AVAILABLE  234-7487 A.M.  SERVICES OFFICE BEFORE LEAVING  available Mojo Hell-4 tracks on Ho-Ho  CUBES, ME, AND A GOOD SPANKING  
287·4082  CAMPUS THIS SPRING.  records  SOUND? LAST NIGHT WAS VERY  
- NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash or (;redit available! PANDORA'S BOOK BOB Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 233·2342 Wordprocesslng·Typing 272-8827 TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 277-7406 TYPING term paper&teport&' let­ter&tesumes Pick up & delivery available. 2IT-5134 10am-8pm. RESUMES, reports, etc. typed on a computer. Call Sue's Secretarial Ser­vice any11me at 29!HKJ63. EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. HOLY CROSS PRIESTS & BROTHERS VOCATION COUNSELING for the ONE­YEAR CANDIDATE PROGRAM and other ministry opportunities. Contact: FR. JOHN CONLEY. CSC BOX 54t NOTRE DAME 239-6385 Pray to St. Jude WILL HOUSESIT FOR SUMMER Responsible for: clean house, pets, plants, yard. Call Debbie 2B3-4500 LOST/FOUND FOUND-set of dorm keys in Cushing Hall. call 4328 to claim LOST: At Sr. Formal-35mm kodak.Rt. Side of Ballrm contains all our pix.Pieae call John 271-0129  Moving to NYC? Lg 1 bdrm. apt. for rent Aug. 1. Good midtown loc. A-C, OW & lg closets. Per· feet for share. Call Betsy or Jackie. (212) 582·4250. For serious students rooms with house privileges. Fully furnished. Nice neigh· borhood 2 miles from NO. Summer or fall. Call AI 5378 or 234·1 021. WANTED I am looking for a bike for grad school next year. Steve 3767 CHICAGO YOUTH CENTERS CAMP ROSENTHAL SUMMER CAMP STAFF NEEDED We are looking lor Dynamic Stall lor our multi-cultural, multi-racial, camp­Ing program located west of Dowagiac, MI. We serve economically disadvantaged youth from Chicago at Camp Rosenthal through our rec,.­tlonal, adventure based, and training programs. POSITIONS AVAILABLE: GENERAL COUNSELORS; WATERFRONT DIR. Camp will provide opportunity lor WSI certification to quaHIIed applicants. LIFEGUAR090ATING INSTR.; WORK CREW LEADERS; INSTRUCTORS, Arts & Crafts, Arche~ames, Wood­worklngflocketry, Nature Study. AS­SISTANT COOKS, DRIVER-CLERK. For more Information CONTACT: CAMP ROSENTHAL 3384 CLAWSON ROAD DOWAGIAC, Ml 49047 (616) 424-5272 RIDE TO FLORIDA Help. Help. Help. We need a ride home after exams on Friday or Saturday. Going to Fort Lauderdale, Orlando, or Daytona. If you can help, please call Dave at 283· 3284.  TICKETS $$$ GRAD TIX WANTED $$$ Call Michelle al 3196 I need 5 graduation tix-call Tom 3155 or 3157 PLANE TICKET TO PHILADELPHIA MAY 12 $ 75; 239-6208(DAY) 287· 1243(NIGHT) $$Garduation Tickets Wanted-Big Buc Call Bob # 3467 FOR SALE CHEAP! ONE-WAY TICKET SOUTH BEND TO LAX ON !>23. CALL 284-5314. RUTHIE AND MARCEL ARE COMING TO NO and one of them needs a ticket to graduation. Will pay $$ callx4228 PERSONALS hlag SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-BD0-343-8373. EYE CONTACT BRAND NAME LENSES START AT 19.95 EA. 1-800­255-2020. I NEED GRAD TIX! CALL MIKE# 1558 SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $279 each way on discounted scheduled airlines to Europe from Chicago. Call (800) 325-2222. For ODN One World shirts call 3193 MALE TO SHARE TOWNHOUSE NEAR  JUNIORS JUNIORS HAND IN COMPLETED PROFILE FORM TO CAREER & PLACEMENT SERVICES OFFICE BEFORE LEAVING CAMPUS THIS SPRING. JUNIORS JUNIORS HAND IN COMPLETED PROFILE FORM TO CAREER & PLACEMENT SERVICES OFFICE BEFORE LEAVING CAMPUS THIS SPRING. DAVE STOLPMAN: THE WAY YOU MOVE MAKES ME SWEAT. The reign of the Meatuses is not of this wortd... HE THINKS HE'S SOOOO CUTE!II BUT WE KNOW BETTER. .. VOTE FOR BRIAN O'GARA FOR UMOC It's never been so gross... GO HOME! NEED A VEHICLE? GREAT VAN AND TRUCK PRICES-ONE WAYS STILL AVAIL. CALL X1143 FOR INFO. HAPPY B·DAY!II ON 4·29 MARY McLOUGHLIN and SONYA SMITH TO OUR LITTLE SMICK, SWICK, HOPE YOUR 19TH BIRTHDAY BEATS KROGER'S BULK FOOD DEPT. FROM YOUR MCMANLESS FRIENDS & ONE REGINITE. ANYONE INTERESTED IN LEASING AN APARTMENT AT TURTLE CREEK FOR THE SUMMER? CALL DEIRDRE AT 284-4365. SUMMER APARTMENT IN TURTLE CREEK NEEDED. ONE ROOMMATE OR TWO SUBLETTERS. CALL 284· 4387 STACY OR JANENE AFTER 8 PM.  STONE PUPPIES STONE PUPPIES STONE PUPPIES FRI. NITE CLUB 23 FRI. NITE CLUB 23 STONE PUPPIES SENIOR BAR SENIOR BAR FRIDAY LUNCH NOON-2:00 & In the GARDEN ... THE STONE PUPPIES To get your 'I got down and dirty in the mud' An Tostal T-shirt call Michelle # 4620 AN TOSTAL 5K & 10K RUNS 9 AM SATURDAY RACE DAY REGISTRATION AT STEPAN SWEET 32 Congratulations, GAUCHOS! Dave Pete Jerry Greg Rob Your tans are proud of you! Sunday Stephanie Viducich is 20! She's going to have a crazy weekend Recover­ing won't be easy so will her "heroes" TW or DB save her? We hope so! Happy Birthday We love you THE BRAWK ROOM The Big, The Wide, and the Ugly 1. Elisa "Ain't" Dunn "Eatin'" 2. Leh1a "Frigedaire" Franklin 3. Lanae "Round Mound" Brown 4. Elizabeth "Friction" Wynn 5. Christina "Pilsbury" Arnold Dishononarable Mention: Avary and Adrienne "Ommpa Loompa" Luckey  SPECIAL. I LOVE YOU VERY MUCH...AND I AIN'T GONNA EVER STOP. LETS DO IT AGAIN. AN TOSTAL 5k & 10k Runs 9 a.m. Sat­urday Race Day Registration at Stepan ·ATTENTION· ANYONE WANTING TO TRANSPORT ITEMS HOME ON THE NORTHWEST BAGGAGE TRUCK DROP BY RM 358 ALUMNI TO GET FORMS LIMITED SPACE AVAILABLE QUESTION: CALL 1222 RAY 1132 JOHN LADY M. AND THE WHORES WOULD LIKE TO THANK KAREN, MARY, MIS­SY, DAVE, MARTY, JIM, AND THE GOON SQUAD FOR HELPING US PROVE IT AIN'T PRETTY BEIN' EASY! COME SEE THE BAND THAT SHORTED THE POWER AT THE NAZZ­THE CHEWING BLACKBONES! FEATURING STAGE THANG KATHLEEN F I ''THE 'BONES MAKE UP THE TONE, F WAKES UP YEA 'MONES!" FRIDAY-226 ST PETER-4:00 THAO!!! GOOD LUCK ON MCATS! WE LOVE YOU! ·403 FARLEY KARCH KIRALY RULES THE UNI­VERSE & WE HAVE THE BOMB!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! INCIDENTALLY, TO­MORROW IS PATTY MICHAUD'S BIRTHDAY... NO, SHE IS NOT LEGAL YET, ALTHOUGH SHE LIKES TO THINK SHE IS. HAVE A GOOD ONE, PATTY. LOVE, THE DEMON EX· ROOM· MATE FROM HELL! CHIP SHAIA: this personal is for you! Keep fighting all those women off and have a great week-end -Your secret admtrer.  
Did you find a round, gold St. Christopher medal? I lost one on the soccer field behind Stepan on Monday. you find rt please call Pate at 2459 LOT: Sr Frml. Rt Side of Ballrm 35mm Kodak. contains all our pix Please Call John at 271-0129 LOST: GOLD NUGGET NECKLACE. EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE.  AGENTS NEEDED! $350.00 PER DAY PROCESSING PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. CALL (REFUNDABLE) 1· 315·733-6063 EXTENSION P-2382. SREWED by a year lease? Will rent your place for the summer. Call TONY 288·8719.  NO. CALL TYLER 277-4831 OR 271· 9380 ATTENTION: ANYONE LIVING IN NYC AREA NEED THINGS SHIPPED HOME? CALL JOHN AT 271-8704 OR 283-1789 (AFTER !O:OOPM) Join the MARY K W date of the day club. Membership Includes  CHAMPIONS Is coming soon to the ND Bookstore. Don't leave lor home without It! HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS SUM­MER (OR ANYTIME)? Jet there from Chicago, Detroit or Cleveland lor no more .than $180 with AIRHITCH (TM), as reported In Consumer Reports, NY Times, Let's Go, and national network morning shows. For details, call 212­ COME SEE THE ONLY JOHNNY CASH-ACDC COVER BAND IN MICHIANA! FRIDAY-226 STPETER· AT 4:00 YOUR WORLD WILL ROCK! NO CLUB OF BUFFALO BAGGAGE TRUCK Loading: Fri May 12 from 2·5pm at Stepan. Questions call Tom X3285 MARY FRAN ANTKOWIAK A.K.A M.F.  MONCHONI!!! Your hell-week is over. Now enJOY the weekend and have a great time at the Luau!!! Love. all your pals.. ATTENTION ALL NOTRE DAME STU­DENTS: this Saturday night is your chance to see Monica Letoto in action at the Luau!!!! Don't miss it!! KEVIN ORPURT (aka Dreamboat) You know...you're alright!  
CALL BEKI AT 284-5127. KEYS LOST IF FOUND CA~L 2088 LOST ON NORTH QUAD:AN AEROBIE. IT GOT STUCK IN THE TREE AND OVERNIGHT THE WIND BLEW IT DOWN. IF YOU FOUN IT, PLEASE CALL TONY AT 1244. IT WA BOR­ROWED.  WANTED: HOUSE SITTING JOB FOR SUMMER SESSION. GRAD STUDENT. SUPER DEPENDABLE, GLOWING REFERENCES. WILLING TO WORK. CALL JOHN AT 1·465·0966 A.S.A.P. ROOMMATE WANTED FOR SUM· MERSCHOOL ALREADY HAVE TURT. CREEK LEASE CALL X1169 FOR INFO  mass outings to Senior Bar, with op­tional rides home to a veritable bevy of new and exciting beds. JOHN R I SAW YOU PLAYING BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL AND I KNEW I HAD TO HAVE YOU. THE WAY YOU MADE MY LIVER QUIVER. I DREAM OF PRACTICING MY SKILLS WITH  864-2000 or write: AIRHITCH(TM), 2901 Broadway, Suite 100G, NY, NY 10025. SKYDIVING TIME IS RUNNING OUT DEAN 287-3024 SARA LIEBSCHER'''SARA LIEBSCHER Pool your money now folks because your pal and mine­SARA LIEBSCHER-Is laying It all on  A.K.A. FRANK HAPPY 22ND BIRTHDAY!! love, your 4 roomates THANK YOU ST. JUDE Robin Squyres History does repeat itself. Watch this space! · You Know Who The Stone Puppies  To the guy who helped me with my tray at SOH thurs--thanks--you made my day! SATURDAY NIGHT SATURDAY NIGHT CATS ON HOLIDAY FIELDHOUSE MALL 9-12 DON'T MISS THEM!  
LOST:keychain  with  blue  NO  Alumni  YOU.  the line lor  Friday at Club 23  
keychain and three keys. II found please call1528. FOUND: 2 GOLD BRACELETS AT THE JACC. CALL 3878 TO DESCRIBE AND CLAIM.  FOR SALE Modem couch and full-size bed sale.Great condition. Call 234·8365  for  --A SECRET ADMIRER HOPING TO ADOPT We're a happily married, financially secure couple with a beautiful home  U.M.O.C. She's very scary ao give to a needy cause!ll Maybe she'll raise enough money lor that operation. Why Is CHRIS J so HAPPY? II  10:00 to??? Stone Puppies Stone Puppies  LIESKE.f'RES. '90 GILLIGAIWP '90 RACINEtSEC. '91 POULAKIDAS'TREAS. '92  
FOR RENT NICE FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. 287-8389, 683-8889. FOUR FLAGS FARM BED AND BREAKFAST CONVENIENTLY LO­CATED 20 MINS. FROM NO. IDEAL FOR ALL NO ACTIVITIES. 616-471­5711.  '81 Subaru, FWD, 1 08K, Best offer dad is giving me his-must sell 3554 FOR SALE: PIEDMONT FLIGHT VOUCHER FOR MALE PASSENGER "BEST OF· FER" CALL 283·3405 Panasonic Mtn bike. Like newl Call Tom. 277-0725  and lots of love to share with a much­wanted baby. II you are pregnant and considering adoption, please call us. Expenses paid. Confidential, legal. Please call Deborah and David collect day or night at 312-935-4088. NANCY YOU ARE THE GREATEST. I HAVE NEVER BEEN AS HAPPY AS I AM NOW.I LOVE YOU! I CAN'T WAIT UN· TIL WE'RE TOGETHER FOREVER. TOM  you are of the female persuasion Its probably because he's looking up your skirt. Beware: this man Is war­ming up lor early dirty-old-man status. II he's smlllng-l'd run! DIAMOND DAVE BRUNER lor Ugly Man On Campus Notre Dame Chorale Alumni Reunion Concert Friday, 8:15pm  Stone Puppies Club 23 Friday Night!!! EX-LAX: "Not much fun in Stalingrad... no." Kelly· We hope that DB, Finite Man, DHD. and Hair Man will "Rave-Up" your  FOR A (TOUCH OF CLASS) IN LEMANS HALL RUN-OFF MONDAY SROHLICHE GEBURTSTAG HERR MEYERHOSER! VON SHREN DEUTSCHEN KLASSEN! CATHERINE ANN JORZAK  
~.  CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS REN· TING NOW FOR SUMMER. 2 BEDROOMS FURNISHED-UTILITIES INCLUDED-SHORT TERM LEASES. $410 PER MONTH. CALL 272·1441 THERE'S STILL A HOUSE AVAILABLE IN GOOD CONDITION AND EXCEL· LENT LOCATION--SAFE AND CLOSE·· 4-5 BEDROOMS, FURNISHED. 233· 9947 APT. 2 PEOPLE GOOD NEIGHBOR· HOOD 288·095!>289·2331 MALE GRADUATES FURNISHED ROOMS, AIR, KITCHEN, FRIDGE. 5 MINS. N. CAMPUS. 272­ LOFT-$45 GREY CARPET,LIKE NEW,8'x10'·$60 STEREO CABINET-$10 4 DRAWER CHEST-$15 BLACK-WHITE RECLINER-$25 X3201 For Sefe: 1980 Mazda GLC, 99K new tires-MUST SELL $500 or best offer. Call Lou 289-4315 1979 VW Rabbit, runs great, pertect stu­dent car. Call 234·6497. Wall-to-wall carpet (fits PW.PE, Knott, or Sieg double) and loft FOR SAI,.E. .... MELISSA X4341 837 PE  ATTENTION SOPHOMORES !1111 Want FREE ADMISSION to next year's Junior Class Events? Looking to meet more of your classmates? Looking to help our class as a photog· rapher at class events? Join the Class of 1991 Photography Group Contact Sean Scanlon at 283·1139 GOING TO FLORIDA??? Anyone looking for riders at the end of the school year to Orlando, Daytona, or Ft. Lauderdale, please call Will at 283· 2089. I NEED A RIDE HOME TO FLORIDA  Washington Hall BARBARA BILLINGSLY'S OINTMENT BARBARA BILLINGSLY'S OINTMENT come, let us offend you one last time FRIDAY FRIDAY FRIDAY McCORMICK$ McCORMICK$ 10PM. SENIOR BAR STONE PUPPIES I. LUNCH NOON BARBARA BILLINGSLY'S OINTMENT  day. Watch out for all those scary SYR dates now that you're older. Were they all possessed? Remember all those nights of passion from your freshman year, or do you? You're such a "Wild Thing," you sinner! Have a groovy birthday, ROCK ON DUDE! Love, Maureen, Stacey, Jenny AN TOSTAL 5k &10k Runs 9 a.m. Sat­urday Race Day Registration at Stepan MINNESOTA MCATS HEY, HEY GREGMAHN, I WANNA SEE YOU KICK SOME MCAT 'SSI FOR THE MAN WITH TWO E'S IT SHOULD BE NO SWEAT! LOVE, JANE  I can remember when we started Bio in the fall of '82. Pretty scary. You were a science wizard then, and you still are one now. Good Luck! Make the MCATS. Purr like a kitten. You know about cats, you've dissected enough. Love, K.P.· Former Lab Partner and MS /tesident chemist. FIRST TIME AT SAINT MARY'S ALAN SAVE & THE MCNEIL$ FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1989 HAGGAR TERRACE FREE FOOD 5:3().7:30 SPONSORED BY SMC CLASS OF '92. ALL ARE WELCOME.  
0615.  FOR  THE  SUMMER.  I CAN  LEAVE  MCCORMICK'S FRIDAY 10 FAREWELL  YOU, TOO, GUY-BEAST!  
Turtle Creek Townhouse available summer.Price negoctiable 272·9298  to  72 VW Van. Includes sink, refrig., and pop top. Great for camping & tailgaters. 289-0762  FRIDAY 5112 AND WILL SHARE NOR· MAL EXPENSES. CALL PAUL AT 289· 0662 OR 283·3506!  SHOW DON'T FORGET TO WRITE RECORD RELEASE ORGY-MOJO HELL  JERRY AND SCOTT GOOD LUCK ON MCATS! ·B.D.F.  Lou don't you think one bottle is enough  


Friday, April 28, 1989 The Observer page 17 
White Sox win 16-inning marathon with Boston 
Associated Press 
BOSTON--Ozzie Guillen's triple scored Steve Lyons with two outs in the 16th inning Thursday night, as the Chicago White Sox beat Boston 3-1 in the Red Sox' longest game in nearly eight years. 
With one out in the 16th, catcher Ron Karkovice, who had struck out three consecutive times, beat 'out a bunt. Lyons forced Karkovice at second, but Guillen followed with his fourth hit in eight at-bats, a drive to right-center field off Mike Smithson, 0-2. 
Athletics 9, Orioles 4 
OAKLAND, Calif.--Mark McGwire hit two home runs and Dave Henderson homered and tripled in the go-ahead run in the seventh inning Thursday as Oakland rallied to beat Baltimore 9-4. 
The Athletics, who had their seven­game winning streak snapped the night before, came back from an early 3-0 deficit and then broke a 3-3 tie with six runs on eight hits in the seventh. 
Cubs 1, Dodgers 0 
CHICAGO--Greg Maddux outdueled Orel Hershiser and Gary V arsho drove in his first run of the season with a fifth­

.~~ inning triple Thursday as the Chicago Cubs beat the Los Angeles Dodgers 1-0 Mark McGwire hit two home runs to power the Oakland Athletics to a 9-4 victory to snap a four-game losing streak. Maddux, 1-3, allowed five hits and
over the Baltimore Orioles. Dave Henderson also homered for the Athletics, who had 
AP Photo 

a seven-game win streak snapped on Wednesday. 


I 
~\tv­
D(tVf 
.5Ef [) IC " Dtfl D 

Don't drink and drive 
A public service message from The Observer 
Genuinely Funny" Vincene Canby, New York Times 
Starring Phoebe Legere from Mondo New York 
FORUM CINEMA 1-11·111 
US 31·1 Mi.N. of Notre Dame 277·1522 
Friday & Saturday at 11 :45! 
struck out six for his fifth career shutout. 

Jackson off to another fast start 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo--For the third straight year, Bo Jackson is sizzling in springtime. 
"In the first two months before he got hurt last year, he was the best player we had," said Kansas City Royals manager John Wathan. "If we can only keep him healthy." 
Hot starts have become the hallmark of the muscular Reis­man Trophy winner who is a running back for the Los An­geles Raiders when he is not still learning his trade as a major league outfielder. Jack­son's first 28 at-bats in April, 1987 produced 14 base hits, in­cluding one spectacular night against Detroit when he had a grand slam and a three-run home run. 
He finished April that year 
STUDENTS SAVE 10% 
AND LOTS OF TIME­Let us pack and ship your belongings back home for the summer, or to wherever your new career leads you! 
NOTHING IS TOO LARGE OR TOO SMALL! 

-· 8DXE5/ill5=== 
SHJFPiNG + PACKING + CRATING 

MOVING & SWHAGE BOXES I GIFT WRAPPING SERVICE PACKING MATERIALS I GIFT BOXES & BAGS MAILING TUBES I OFFICE SUPPLIES 
PLEASE PRESENT THIS 

• 
COUPON AT THE TIME OF PURCHASE OR SHIPPING 
SAT 10AM·5:30P~' 
SUN NOON-5:30PM/vJSA/[11 277-5555 M-F 9AM-7PM 
Between T.J. Maxx and Venture 

.~~~--------~ 
5818 GRAPE RD • INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA • MISHAWAKA 
with a .324 average and 15 RBis, and on June 7, he was hitting an acceptable .253 when he announced he was taking up a new hobby as part-time NFL running back. 
After the announcement, he hit .193 and led the team with 158 strikeouts. 
Last spring, Jackson had two four-hit games in yet another torrid start and was the Royals player of the month in May after hitting safely in 21 of 27 games. 
On May 31, he was hitting .309 with nine home runs and 30 RBis when he suffered a severely torn hamstring while running to first. Mter sitting out the next five weeks, he never regained his momentum and finished his second full season as a professional bat­ting .235. 
Padres 8, Pirates 1 
PITTSBURGH--Carmelo Martinez hit a grand slam and Ed Whitson al­lowed six hits over eight innings as the San Diego Padres beat the punchless Pittsburgh Pirates 8-1 Thursday night to complete a three-game sweep. 
The last time the Padres swept a three-game series in Pittsburgh was Aug. 1-3, 1980. San Diego held the Pirates to two runs in the series, win­ning the other games 1-0 and 3-1. 
Yankees 3, Royals 2 
KANSAS CITY, Mo.--Tommy John allowed two runs in eight-plus innings for his 288th career victory and Dave Righetti got out of a bases-loaded jam in the ninth as the New York Yankees beat the Kansas City Royals 3-2 Thursday night. 
Cardinals 10, Giants 1 
ST. LOUIS--Scott Terry won his third straight game and went 3-for-3 with a three-run home run as the St. Louis Car­dinals defeated the San Francisco Giants 10-1 Thursday. 
Angels 1 0, Tigers 3 
ANAHEIM, Calif.--Claudell Wash­ington drove in four runs with a homer and single Thursday night as the Cali­fornia Angels beat the Detroit Tigers 10-3. 
But going into Wednesday night's game against the Yankees, there had been no in­juries or bombshell announce­ments to halt another great getaway, and with four home runs in six games Jackson ranked among the league leaders with seven homers, 17 RBis and 18 runs scored. He also had a nine-game hitting streak. 
"I'm seeing the ball well and I definitely feel more comfort­able at the plate," said Jack­son, reluctant to say much more. 
He refuses to talk about it, but Jackson is on pace to reach the same plateau of 40 home runs and 40 stolen bases that Oakland's Jose Canseco achieved a year ago. 
"I don't think there's any question that he hardly looks like the same player," said Royals second baseman Frank White. "He's more confident. He's more relaxed. His prog­ress is remarkable." 

page 18 The Observer 
Friday, April 28, 1989 

Softball team to take on Marquette, Saint Mary's 
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 
With only ten games remain­ing on the schedule, the Notre Dame softball team continues play this weekend with four more games on the road. 
Saturday's action will take place in Milwaukee with a doubleheader against a club team, Marquette. The Irish (25­

20) will then return to South Bend on Sunday for a pair of games at St. Mary's against the Belles. The games had been postponed from March 17 due to rain. 
Notre Dame enjoyed success against the Belles earlier this season, defeating them twice at home. The Marquette games were scheduled to help the softball program at Marquette. 

"We've played them for so many years, and they are a member of the Midwestern Col­legiate Conference," Notre Dame coach Brian Boulac said. "By scheduling the games we thought we'd give the team some validity, and their ath­letic department might react favorably." 
Despite the good intentions, the Irish will be playing to defeat the Warriors on Satur­day. This is a key weekend for the team because a sweep of both doubleheaders would guarentee a winning season for the Irish in their first year of varsity competition. 
"We want to win all four games," Boulac said. "We go out to win whenever we go out, and hope there is no let up. If we play like we have been, we'll do well." 
The Irish added a win to their total on Wednesday with a vic­tory over Southwest Michigan College, 5-0. This was the third time the two teams played, and Notre Dame has dominated all three contests, allowing only one run overall. 
Missy Linn led the way for the Irish again by pitching a complete game, giving up only three hits and striking out eight. She raised her record to 19-13 and has a chance this weekend to become a twenty game winner. 
The hitting star for the team was outfielder Rachel Crossen, who was 2 for 4 and scored two runs. Crossen has raised her average considerably in the last few games after struggling earlier. 
"She started out hot, but then I think she started forcing it, as she tried to hit the ball. She's been hitting well lately, though," Boulac stated. 
Megan Fay and Marie Liddy also performed well for the Irish. Both players had singles and two RBis. The team rapped out eight hits all to­gether, but left twelve players on base. 
"We hit better against better pitching," Boulac noted. "The real good pitchers still give us some trouble. But we've got to be prepared to hit against any kind of pitching." 
Notre Dame has won its last three games after losing five in a row over the weekend at the DePaul Tournament. 

Purdue quarterback transfers 
Associated Press volves throwing on the move months but decided to stay and at 6-5, 215, I feel I can through the end of spring drills WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.-­realize my potential better in a to see how he would adjust to 
Brian Fox, who became pro-style, drop-back offense.·' the new offense. Purdue's starting quarterback said Fox. · as a 17-year-old freshman last "I don't see how he thinks the fall, says he will transfer be~ "It's a high-powered offense, offense can be bad for him," cause the Boilermakers have no doubt about it, and one thaf Akers said. "He had a great abandoned their traditional is good for the team. But it's spring. He threw 417 passes, pro-style, drop-back passing not the best for me," Fox said had one interception and threw offense. of the new offense that features 19 touchdowns in competitive 
the quarterback throwing drills. So I just don't know. 
Fox started the final eight more on the run behind a games in Purdue's 4-7 season moving pocket. "I just don't "Like most teams in the and came out of spring practice feel comfortable in it." country, you have more trouble 
this year as the No.1 quarter­protecting a straight drop-back back for the 1989 season. But Fox told the Indianapolis passer. We've got to do more he told Coach Fred Akers on Star one reason he came to moving the pocket and play­Wednesday he intends to leave. Purdue was the "tradition of pass just for protection pur­
drop-back, pro-style offense poses. You're seeing that at "I came into spring with an which they've been running for every level," Akers said. so many years." Fox, of Orlando, Fla., said he 
open mind and determined to He said he had been consid­intends to transfer to a schoolwork 200 percent. But almost 

all (of the new offense) in-ering leaving Purdue for two in his home state. 
+
American 


Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 

oudoiitneed richparents 
THE SUMMER'S 
BEST PICfURE 

togetacar forgraduation.
''MAGNIFICENT'' 
-Jack Kroll. NEWSWEEK 
''RIVETING'' 
-Jack KroU, NEWSWEEK 
''ENTHRALLING'' 
-Rlclurd Scblcktl. TIME MAGAZINE 
"SENSATIONAL' 
-Cent Slsktl, SISKEL lc EBERT lc THE MOVIES 
"mRESISTIBLE" 

Sentra Up to $1000 Rebate $750 Rebate 
-VInceat C....by, NEW YORK TIMES 
..SUPERLATIVE 

or 7.9°/<>'9.9°/o financing*
STORYTELLING!' 
-Sbe!la Benson, WS ANGELES TIMES 

r----------------------~I
"BREATHTAKING" <;;eta Nissan · for no money down. 
-Pla UDC!atrom, WNJIC.TV 

1 No payments for 90 days. Just fill out this card 1 and bring it to any participating Nissan Dealer.
KILaLEA I
"SUPERB" 
-David Sltrrltt, CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR 
I 

"MASTERPIECE" NISSAN I Name:-------------­-!lli<hatl M-.INN/SNEAX PREVIEWS, PBS-TV Signature: _____________
I

Celebrating our 10th Year A 
nmversary 
I Address: _____________
"EXQUISITE" 1979-1989 
I 
-Sio:vart Klela, WNYN· TV 

I City: _____.S~t,~1t,;;;;e:___~L..:..Io;.;):____ I
''EXHILARATING'' 

1 School Name: ----------­
2101 Lincolnway, West 
1 Dealer signature: __________
Mishawaka, IN 46556 I I 
I I
255-9644 
I lllkr i' Mood lromt\prill ~. l'JIN thrnugh SL-ptcmbcr 30, 14H4. 1I Fin,lJKillf; ~ubjL'ct hl credit dpprtl\\11. 1\L'\'iuus L'omp,H,lhiL' I1 cn:dit is not required, huwevc•r, .~dvcr"' l"rc·dit m.1y disqthli· I
1 

iiy. Oiic•r nut Villid in New kr"''·· Limitc>d to licensed drivers 1H yt•urs ui uge ,111d uvc·r with vt·riiiuble uifcrs ui I
I L'mplnyment aftt.•r graduiltion. \h•rifiublL· iusurclllCL' COVL'f,l~L' 1 
I required .I
TONIGHT AT THE SNITE 

*48 mo./60 mo. N.M.A.C. financing 
7:30, 9:45 

·--~-------------------­


Friday, April 28, 1989 The Observer page 19 

•

Flyers w1n to force 7th game 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA--Tim Kerr and Derrick Smith each scored twice as the Philadelphia Flyers beat the Pittsburgh Penguins 6-2 Thursday night and tied their NHL playoff se­ries at three games apiece. 
The ·Flyers and Penguins meet Saturday night at Pit­tsburgh for the Patrick Divi­sion title. The winner advances to the Stanley Cup semifinals, beginning Monday night at Montreal. 
The Canadiens reached the semifinals with a 4-1 victory over Boston in the Adams Divi­sion final. 
The Penguins had taken a 3-2 lead in the series Tuesday night at home when Mario Lemieux, the league's top scorer with 85 
~ 
Smith 

I Siorag~ 
goals and 199 points, scored five goals and three assists. 
But the Flyers blanked Lemieux, and the young Pen­guins couldn't put the series away. The Flyers scored two first-period goals, and twice answered after Pittsburgh came within a goal at 2-1 and 3-2 in the second period. 
The Flyers took a 2-0 first period lead on Kerr's 13th and 14th goals of the playoffs --nine in this series. Kerr beat goalie Tom Barrasso high to the glove side from the top of the slot at 
4:28 for a 1-0 lead. He took a pass from behind the net by Mike Bullard. 
Kerr's second goal came at 
18: 22 on a deflection of a shot from just inside the blue line by Mark Howe. 
The Penguins cut it to 2-1 at 
2: 18 of the second on a power-
VISA<MC U-HAUL Boxes, Tape, etc. 
Small Residential Sizes To Large Commercial FENCED & LIGHTED 
N 

WE ARE LOCATED 
i

ll MILE SOUTH OF K·MART SAME SIDE OF HIGHWAY
684·4880 3001 s. u.s. 33 
ST. MAFIY. 5

NILES, MI. COl LEGE 
SP:=CIAL STUDENT RATES 
10 K·MAIIT 
:c;IORD 
~ ST A TEUN6 RD. ui NORTE DAME 
::i I UNIVERSITY 

play goal by Randy Cun­neyworth. Cunneyworth fol­lowed his shot off the boards to beat goalie Ron Hextall, who misplayed it as he slipped to the ice at the side of the net. 
But the Flyers struck back 70 seconds later as Smith scored from the right of the crease. 
Less than two minutes later, at 5:24, the Penguins' Dan Quinn faked a shot and passed to Cunneyworth, who pushed it past Hextall's stick side to make it 3-2. 
Then, the Penguins got a bad break. Ron Sutter was credited with a goal at 8:40 that made it 4-2. Actually, Sutter dumped the puck in front of the net to Brian Propp, and Pittsburgh's Rod Buskas tipped it in. 
Smith's second goal upped it to 5-2 with 59 seconds left in the second period. Smith put a shot between Barrasso's pads after taking a pass from behind the net by Scott Mellanby. 
Propp scored the Flyers' final goal, his 11th of the playoffs, with 64 seconds to go. 
,~GR£.AT~\VALL 
SPECIAL MOTHL. I 
-
DAY BUFFET All you can eat 

Irish baseball splits with Chicago State 
Special to The Observer tory by striking out five and 
The Notre Dame baseball team split a doubleheader with Chicago State Thursday, win­ning the first game 7-4 and dropping the nightcap 5-4. 
In the first game, the Irish (32-11) utilized strong perfor­mances by starter Tony Livorsi and winning pitcher Mike Cof­fey to down the Cougars 7-4. 
The two teams were tied 3-3 in the fifth inning when Dan Peltier doubled. Peltier scored the winning run on a Chicago State throwing error after an Ed Lund single. 
Notre Dame added insurance with a Frank Jacobs single that enabled Lund to score, and gave the Irish a two-run lead. 
Coffey relieved Livorsi in the fifth inning and earned the vic-

Chlneu-AIHricen Restaurant & CocktaU Leunp 

Reservations for Graduation Special Party Rooms Available 
8.95 
Sun May 14 thru May 18 

giving up one run. 
In the second game, the Cougars upset the Irish after a Pat Pesavento throwing error in the seventh and final inning. 
With the Irish holding a 4-3 advantage in the last inning, pitcher Joe Binkiewicz walked the first batter, and then al­lowed a double to left field. On the relay throw from left field, Pesavento attempted to throw out the runner at home but overthrew catcher Ed Lund. The ball proceeded to go under the backstop, thus allowing the winning run to score. 
Chicago State managed only two hits off the Irish pitching staff during the second game, but the Cougars still found a way to the split. 
Women 
continued from page 24 
In other action, An Angel, Sally's Comet and Three Other Heavenly Bodies beat Keith, John, Flanner and Two Other Worthless Towers 21-10, Three of Marv's Rejects and Two of His Stars exposed Secret Ser­vice 21-15, One Girl with Expe­rience indicted Supreme Court 21-15, Teeter and the Four Hot Totters sent Bye on its way 21-7 and Four Dunks and One Dink sent home Two Words 21-19. 
.. 

page 20 The Observer Friday, April 28, 1989 
After loss to Mich. St., ND prepares for OSU 
By PETE LaFLEUR Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team saw its hopes for an NCAA tournament bid diminish Wednesday as they lost to Michigan State 9-7 in East Lansing, Mich. 
The Irish (7-5) were "in the drivers seat" for the reserved NCAA western bid, but that po­sition was snatched away by the Spartans, who moved to 6-5 for the season. Still, Notre Dame continues to hope for the right circumstances that could help it capture its first NCAA invitation. 
"It's a little disappointing be­cause we dido 't play that well,'' said Irish coach Kevin Cor­rigan. "We found ourself for the third time this year tied at 7-7 in the fourth quarter and for the third time we couldn't pull it out. 
"We're going to need some help now to get into the NCAA tournament," he continued. "We'll help ourselves by beating Ohio State Saturday and then it's up to the commit­tee." 
Notre Dame plays Ohio State at 6 p.m. Saturday in Colum­bus, and the Buckeyes then play the Spartans on May 14. If Notre Dame can beat Ohio State in its regular season finale, it would then hope for Ohio State to beat Michigan State. 
Those three Midwestern teams and Air Force were the pre-season contenders for the Division I bid. Air Force lost to the Irish and the Spartans, but 

Coffey 
continued from page 24 
ing he gains valuable experi­ence. 
If he becomes more consis­
tent, like a "Wild Thing" he'll 
"make everything groovy." 
This weekend, the Irish will 
host MCC East rival Xavier for 
four games. Both Saturday and 
Sunday doubleheaders · will 
begin at 1 p.m. at Jake Kline 
Field. 
The Irish swept four games 
from Xavier on April 8-9, but 
the Musketeers were strug­
gling and the Irish were in top 
form. Lately, Xavier has been 
winning, having just split two 
doubleheaders with Detroit. 
Xavier has won four of its 
last five games, but only has a 
13-28 record, 5-7 in the MCC. 
Earlier in the season, the Mus­
keteers endured a grueling 14­
game losing streak. 
they beat Ohio State. Thus the Cadets are no longer in the run­ning while Ohio State (4-6) must beat both the Irish and the Spartans to have any hope at the bid. 
Should the Irish beat Ohio State, and should Ohio State then beat Michigan State, the Irish and Spartans would each be 2-1 among the contenders. 
Ironically, the Spartans routed the Irish in East Lan­sing two years ago in a similar game with the bid on the line. The Spartans went on to cap­ture the inaugural Western bid that year (1987). 
Senior tri-captain John Olmstead and freshman Mike Sullivan led the Irish in scoring against the Spartans with two goals each. Frshman goalie Tom Duane had 16 saves in the Irish goal. 
But it was a lack of intensity that prevented the Irish from ever capturing the lead of the tight game. The teams were tied at three at halftime and 'see-sawed" the rest of the way before Michigan State went ahead for good in the fourth quarter. 
"Three or four times we tied the score and we felt that if we ever got the go ahead goal things would go our way," said senior tri-captain Doug Spen­cer. "But we were always playing catch-up and that's not the position ·you want to be in on the road." 
"We didn't have the intensity that we have had in the other games," he continued. "Everyone gave his best, but for some reason we couldn't put it all together." 


The Spartans beat the Irish for only the third time against eight losses, with all those wins coming the last four seasons. Michigan State dominated on ground balls (60-44), a statistic the Irish usually count on for the win. 
Still, the main thing the Irish have to worry about now is regaining the intensity that propelled them to a seven game winning streak the last few weeks. That month-long streak followed three season-opening losses and since then Notre Dame has lost two in a row. 
Xavier is a hot team right now, and there is nobody in the MCC hotter than Xavier's Scott Gordon. He is the MCC athlete of the week, hitting .476 (10-for­
21) with three home runs, two doubles and nine RBI. Not only does he hit, but he is the team's star pitcher. He is 5-2 with a 
2.50 ERA, second in the MCC. His .382 batting average is fifth in the MCC. 

"Xavier's got a good bal­lclub," said Murphy. "Those four games we played with them were our best games of the year. Scott Gordon is as good a pitcher as anybody in the conference. He might be the best in the conference, and you'll see him in the first game on Saturday. We've got to be ready when Xavier comes to town." 

To Rob. 
Love Mom. Dad. 
Billy. Ryan Brett &Travis 
"The fact that we didn't play 146 career Irish points rank well against Michigan State second all-time. He also holds and that we have another op­Irish records for career assists ponent to concentrate on so (63), assist and points in a soon, I think we'll play a really game (7 and 9), assists and good game Saturday," Spencer points by a junior (25 and 58), said. and is an Academic All­
"The desire to win will over­American. ride anything else not within Tri-captains Spencer and our control, most notably the Kevin O'Connor lead a senior­bid." packed Irish defense that has 
If the Irish don't capture the allowed more than 10 goals only bid, Saturday's game will be once this season for a 7.5 goals the last for the five seniors. per game average. Brendan 
Tri-captain John Olmstead is Cahill and Warren Sanger closing out a record-packed round out the senior defen­career. Olmstead has 22 goals semen whose Irish careers are and 17 assists this year and his nearing an end . 

Matthaeus: 
Tu es viglnti unus. CARPE DIEM! 
/
A manter, Mater et Pater 

"****!
WARM, SENSITIVE AND FUNNY!" 
-CBS-TV. LOS ANGELES 
"Passionate, 
"Funny and sincere, touching. funny and Harvey Fierstein honest." and Anne 
-John H. Richardson, 
Bancroft are
LOS ANGELES DAILY NEWS 

excellent. "THUMBS YOU SHOULD UP!" SEE IT!" 
-Roger Ebert. -Dixie Whatley.SISKEL & EBERT AT THE MOVIES 
ToRCH SONG TRILOGY 
NEW LINE CINEMA PRESENTS A HOWARD OOJ'TFRIED/RONALD K. FIERSTEIN PRODI'"IlllN A PAUL BOGART FILM "TORCH SONG TRILOGY"
• 
STAUJN< 

ANNE BANCROFT, MATTHEW BRODERICK, HARVEY FIERSTEIN AND BRIAN KERWIN AL!IOSTARRIN< KAREN YOUNG • MIISICADAPTEDBI PETER MATZ. ISSOCIATEI'RODC<ER MARJE CANTIN 
EX£Ctml[ PRODilrER RONALD K. FIERSTEIN • SCW:NPLAI 81 HARVEY FIERSTEIN BASED .. HIS PlAI 
PRODIIrED 81 

HOWARD OOJ'TFRIED • DIREm:D 81 PAUL BOGART fD~~~;:J DOL~=)" ORIGINUSOI"IJTIAfkOS~RE{IIIJIS NEW LINE CJNru• • 
••UUII~fiUIIifi'I!UIOII'OIUNl'l U!tiiMI'\tl.'IUtlJ .&lftn 
Sat-SunFri FORUM CINEMA 1-11-111 2:00, 4:30, 
7:00 & 9:20 US 31-1 M1 N of Notre Dame 277-1522 7:00, & 9:20 

• 
Friday, April 28, 1989 
The Observer page 21 
Kalbas 'everything' to Irish 
NO meets Kalamazoo, Illinois State in final weekend 
By BOB MITCHELL During his final year as a col­keeps this team toghether Sports Writer legiate tennis player, Kalbas during the tough times of the 
Thirty times this year Notre has been forced to change and season. I arr. only a freshman Dame head coach Bob Bayliss adjust to a different role. In his and I look to him for support, asked Brian Kalbas if he was first three seasons at Notre to show me the ropes and give physically fit to play and thirty Dame, Kalbas held on to the me strength. He is the focal times The Irish's No. 3 player No.1 singles spot, but with the point of the team." responded "Yes." arrival of freshman Dave 
DiLucia (No.1) and junior And looking at Kalbas's style 
Kalb'as, who suffered a sore transfer Walter Dolhare (No.2) of play one would not doubt his shoulder and countless other this year, Kalbas has assumed teammates admiration. injuries throughout the entire the No.3 spot. Kalbas plays with one thing in season, was not physically ca­mind--to win. Nothing else will pable of playing in more than "I'm not disappointed falling quench his unsatiable thirst to half of those matches, but his to No.3," said Kalbas. "I am come out on top. willingness to play illustratres disappointed with the injury. I what type of person and tennis want to contribute anyway I "If the match comes down to player he is. can to the tea,.,. Each spot endurance I will not lose, "said 
counts for the same amount of Kalbas. "I describe my style of 
There is no greater compli­points, so I am just concerned play as counteractive. If some­ment in any sport than saying about winning my spot. Sure it one is charging the net I will a player makes everyone else is tough but David deserves it, adjust my game to win." The Observer I E.G. Bailey on the team better, and there he is the best player on the "He is the ultimate competi­Senior captain Brian Kalbas will close out his Notre Dame career when is no doubt in anyone's mind team. Dave and Walter are tor," said Bayliss. "Brian will the Irish tennis team plays host to Kalamazoo and llinois State this 
that Kalbas does this. Al­great guys." find a way to win usually with 
weekend. Both matches are scheduled for Saturday at the outdoor
though, Kalbas, self­long drawn out rallies. He lulls 
Courtney Tennis Center.

admittedly, is not the best ath­In four years for the Irish, his opponent into submission." lete on the team, without him Kalbas has ammassed a 83-54 Notre Dame tennis would be in­(65 percent) singles record and Kalbas will close out · his 
Thompson pleads
complete. 50-29 (58 percent) doubles career against Kalamazoo and 

"In a word, Brian means record. This year, Kalbas has Illinois St. on Saturday on the everyhing to Notre Dame ten­somewhat less success with a Courtney Tennis Center. The 
guilty to charges
nis," said Bayliss. "His leader­11-12 singles record match in final two matches of the 1989 
ship by example has set a dual matches and a 13-13 campaign should provide two Associated Press got himself in a regrettable sit­standard for all of us. Brian has doubles record. Despite the solid victories for the 17-9 Irish. uation," attorney Garvin provided the intangible that mixed results, his teammates Notre Dame will attempt to OKLAHOMA CITY--Charles Isaacs said before the court ap­makes everyone play harder believe that Kalbas is the cor­knock off these to schools who Thompson, Oklahoma's start­pearance. and better. He makes everyone nerstone of the team. suprisingly have giving the ing quarterback before being "It's in his best interest to else embarrased to give less "He is the ideal player on the Irish trouble, Notre Dame lost arrested on a federal drug plead guilty and get on with his than 100 percent." team, "said DiLucia. "He to both schools last year. charge, pleaded guilty Wednes­life," Isaacs said. 
day to conspiracy to distribute The judge delayed sentenc­cocaine. He said he was ready ing until he receives a report to face the consequences. from the U.S. Probation Office, 
Golfers head for Midwestern Invite 
"What I did was wrong," the but asked Thompson if he By DAVE McMAHON won the event with a 891, Ohio diana polis Intercollegiates. 20-year-old Thompson told realized he was almost certain 
Sports Writer State took second (892) and In­Since then, Notre Dame has reporters on the courthouse to spend time in prison. steps after his appearance "Yes, your honor,"
diana rounded out the tourney placed eighth out of 22 teams In its final event of the spring four shots back. in the prestigious Kepler Inter­before U.S. District Judge Thompson replied. He later season, the Notre Dame men's Pat Mohan, by carding a 72-collegiates and tied for sixth Ralph Thompson. He said he was ready to face the 
apologized to his family, the consequences.
golf team will trek to Dekalb, 74-76, placed seventh in the out of 16 teams in last Ill., this weekend to participate field of 75. weekend's Spartan Invitation­University of Oklahoma and to The maximum punishment 
his supporters before quickly for the charge is 20 years in
in the Midwestern Invitational. Notre Dame has improved al. The 54-hole event starts steadily as the season has The Irish had finished 20th leaving with his attorney. prison and a $2 million fine, 
today at the Kiswaukee progressed. After beginning and 22nd, respectively, in the The former Sooner was ar­plus a .special assessment fine Country Club. the season by placing seventh Kepler Intercollegiates the last rested Feb. 13 and accused of of $50,000. 
The Irish finished the par-70, out of seven teams in the two years. This time, they were selling 17 grams of cocaine to "Even under the most lenient 6,326-yard tournament last Purdue Spring Invitational, the in third place heading into the an undercover FBI agent on conditions under the year with a 938 total to finish Irish rebounded with a second­final round. The Irish also Jan. 26. guidelines, a defendant would 12th out of 15 teams. Illinois place finish inn the In-placed ninth out of 13 teams. "He's just an athlete who got face some time," U.S. attorney
caught up in the fast lane and Bill Price said. 
Best Taste!

U~tWt'Ll. 
sest pr\ce\
CIIIIEIE·DEIICAII USTAIUIT tt ~8aeChuM end Hunen Tn• Lunch special only $3.45 BeSbnucml ~a 7 days t Includes: Dinner special t MoG.-1h111Lll:31 am to 10 JD. Fn. 11:30 am toll pm & 1. Daily soup only $4 95 t ch SUD. &Hol1dan 11:30 am to 10 pm $3 45 ' 2. Egg Roll
(Regul~r S7 25) Lun es starting at_----. t 3 F . d R' 
. Dinn tartin" at Cl"A 95 . ne ICe
Fried ~old Honey Chickent ers S g ------.-.. & 4. One Entree 
w1th th1s coupon BMQuet.Rooms available for up to 200 ' 
until Feb. 28,1989 130 Dixie Hwy.• lloacalcmcl (IMIId 1o a-~.u·. bm) 272-7376 
Bertles Volkswagon New Fox GL Wagon 
~~~~~ 

$8695 • QQ* 
Equipped with air conditioning, stereo cassette, rear wiper & roof rack 
*includes financing assistance plan & destination, add taxes & fees 
@)BE!JlES0 
52203 U.S. 31/33 North 272-1504 or TOLL FREE 1-100-552-2096 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111! 
~ 4-e=J~~ ~ 
~ e·C~~~~;;r,,;·.•1";o·•-Y;;.,~.~;.::.~s'·i'~ 5
= ~0 ·'·'~ oA V~•"""A I = 
~ .J-:" . ~:l . , ;:.c.:_~}t ~ :.: ~ 
~ B~re ~ 
= =
i University Car Wash i 
~ Saturday, April 29th ~ ~ Bring your' Sloppy Jalopie' to the WEST side ~ 
I = I = 
~ of the STADIOM (GATE 14) from lOam till ~ 
dusk and we'll wash it for only $2 5 Sponsored by St. Edward's Hall 5I (Rain date is sunday, April 30> 1 --= ., 1\()::.~~~0-~ n.-=-' =­
5 (j).\l::;)t:>:'()'Q., 0~ '; o.o~~,Q)~,:-, 5 §] 0 0 LJCfS ~ 0 ..0.. §] 
!i i!
--L_....:r....r......1..
I -~ ·... I 
SJ After 5 
LINCOLNWOOD MOTEL ACCEPTING RESERVATIONS for Notre Dame Graduation May 19, 20, 21 (219) 234-4063 
tAMERKAN
CANCER 
SOCIETY~ 

LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 
·I . ' ' I . I i­
. ~ . ' I\ .
" . .....-.: ·, . . . I • ) ~ 
I ·\. ~·'~ ~~~-.··.
\ / I,.. , ~--~ .·. 
.....,~~~ .'..._. -~~~ 
OOtf TDIIVI OltUJIIJt,ORJUIK Willi ANTOfff WHO DOt~ 

.._____________Open Mon., Tuet., Thurs. Evenings 111 8 p.m. ------------~~~~~ 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111• 
·-
·. 


page 22 
Rising Suns face ailing Nuggets 
Associated Press 
The Denver Nuggets are lim­ping into the NBA playoffs. 
The Nuggets, who meet the Phoenix Suns in the first round, have so many injuries that an assistant coach had to fill in at point guard during two workouts this week. 
"This is not a great situation right now," said head coach Doug Moe, whose team opens a best-of-5 series at Phoenix Friday night. "We've got a chance to have everybody back by Friday, but we won't be 100 percent." 
In first-round series that began Thursday night, New York beat Philadelphia 102-96, Atlanta beat Milwaukee 100-92, the Los Angeles Lakers beat Portland 128-108 and Golden State surprised Utah 123-119. 
For Denver, Danny Schayes has a badly sprained ankle, Mi­chael Adams and Darwin Cook have tender hamstrings, and Walter Davis has a sore groin muscle. 
Moe said Adams should be able to play Friday, but' 'I have no idea about Danny." 
While the Nuggets are hur­ting, the Suns are shining. 
Phoenix, which won only 28 games last season, almost doubled that total this year and finished with the fourth best record in the league. 
"They've done a great job of putting all the parts together," Moe said. In other games Friday, Chicago is at Cleveland, Boston at Detroit and Houston at Seattle. 
Alth<.>ugh the Lakers were seeking their third straight NBA title, Moe said the Suns are the team to beat in the 
IHIJ.hliDJF)Y' 
JEJIIRrnEITD)A\1( 
Stephanie 
Viducich!! 
Have a Blast on Sunday. 

ATTENTION: Grad Students, 

Professors, Employees 
MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Less than 1 0 minutes from campus 

• Washer & dryer in each apartment * flexible leases 
( also -furnished executive suites ) @ 
EQUAl HOUSING

call for details-277-3731 
OPPmTUNm 

Western Conference. 
"They're a scoring ma­chine," he said. "They've got some flat-out shooters--Tom Chambers, Eddie Johnson, Kevin Johnson, Armon Gilliam. Kevin Johnson is superman. I think he'll come out of the playoffs with everyone realiz­ing how great he is." 
Chicago, which lost all six games to Cleveland in the reg­ular season, will have to beat the Cavaliers three times to ad­vance in the playoffs. 
"Everyone has written us off and expects us to get swept in three games because of what happened in the regular season, but maybe we can surprise some people," said Chicago's Michael Jordan. 
Mark Price, who runs the Cavaliers' offense, probably won't play Friday because of a groin injury. 
"Price is a key player, but they still are a good team with­out him," Jordan said. "We don't anticipate a change. They won't lay down." 
The Pistons had the best record in the league (63-19) and won three of four games against Boston, but the Celtics are looking forward to the chal­lenge. 
"I don't think there's much pressure on us at all because of the way the press and everybody have built Detroit up," Boston's Kevin Gamble said. 
Seattle won eight of its last nine games after Xavier McDaniel became a starter. 
As a starter, McDaniel averaged 30.5 points and 6.6 rebounds. In · 72 games as Seattle's sixth man, he averaged 19.1 points and 5.1 rebounds. 



----------~---~­
The Observer Friday, April 28, 1989 



SATURDAY APRIL 29th 10am-8pm 2 SUNDAY APRIL 30th 10am-7pm 
DAYS ONLY 

HOLIDAY INN 515 DIXIEWAY N. SOUTH BENC 
J 
Friday, April 28, 1989 The Observer page 23 
CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 S.F. tourist 44 Down Under attraction metropolis 
FRIDAY 
7:30 and 9:45 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre film, 1 "When Irish­
"Jean De Florette," Annenberg Auditorium. Are Smiling'" 30 Mountaineer's 46-Cologne possible 47 Like Swiss 
5 Festive response cheese

8:15 p.m. Notre Dame Chorale Spring Concert, Washington 
9 Org. founded in
Hall. 31 -Islands ott 48 "Liliom'" author 
1920 the Irish coast 50 Penn, etc.

13 Fold-up furniture 
SATURDAY 33 Province of 51 Teaching deg. 15 Colleen's name
7 a.m. Medical College Admission Test, Engineering China 54 Type of reaction Auditorium. 17 "Wild'" flower of 
34 Be hot under the 55 Shunned, in asongdom 
collar big way 

9:30 a.m. ND Men's Tennis vs. Illinois State, Eck Pavilion. 18 Fencing stance 35 Copper-alloy 57 Ill-at-ease 
19 Material in T. coating feeling1 p.m. ·ND Men's Tennis vs. Kalamazoo, Eck Pavilion. Williams's root 
37 One of the 58 Five-liners 20 Some tic-tac-toe leagues: Abbr. named tor an 1 p.m. ND Baseball vs. Xavier University. winners 
38 "-Takes Is Irish county 21 Gluck works Love," 1987 59 Electrical­
1 p.m. ND Women's Tennis vs. Northern Illinois, Courtney 
22 Prepare corn tor song resistance 
Courts. 
eating 40 Handle, in old measures 23 What plungers Rome 60 Faculty
8 p.m. Saint Mary's Dept. of Music presents Saint John's functions
go tor 41 River of France 
Men's Chorus and Saint Mary's Women's Choir, Church of 
61 "Of-I Sing'" 24 It's sometimes 42 European

Loretto. 
last capital 
SUNDAY DOWN 1 p.m. ND Baseball vs. Xavier University. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 1 Give out 2 Cosmonaut Gagarin 3 Hibernia 
MENUS 
12 Part of the eye 27 Chili companion 47 Root words 4U.S.N. 
14 Attack time 28 Other, in Oise 48 Entertainmentpolicemen 29 Man with an industry initials 16 Former Third 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 5 Ship's stabilizer easy lite 49 Reaction of 
Ave. trains 

Brown Derby Beef Saurbratin 6 Desi Arnaz 32 Aptly named surprise or 
21 Sphere

autobiography novelist dismay
Irish Fried Flounder Baked Breaded Haddock 
7 Subtraction 22 Rowdy behavior 36 Old radio show, 50 Peaude­
Fettucini Alfredo Cheese Crisps 
with "The" (wedding-dressword 23 Marriage
Swiss Steak-Sauce Deli Bar material)
announcement 39 Young AWOL's 8 Lemon's end of a sort 51 Do aquatints 9 Jimmy Dorsey 24 Middle East 43 Sea between lt. 52 Hockey ploy song hit: 1941 fiddle 
andYugo. 53 Warehouse gds. 10 Canaveral, once 25 Where an eleve 
45 "Give me a 55 Diner order, tor studies 
straight -no short Rainbow,'" e.g. 26 Type of club answer!" 56-fortat 

COMICS 
BLOOM COUNTY BERKE BREATHED 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
BLOOM COUNTY 
510P COWL.IN& 
7lle" 
rMIN~ts!! 
" 

T\Gt.RS AA.E. 'lERi CGM~ClRnNG. I fo.LW"'-iS ~fo.Ll. RIG\-\i "'-5LE.EP 
Wl-lffi l LISTEN. 10 1-\0BSS 
BRE.b-.ii-IIN<;. 

\~ 
\~ /..-:::­
~ ,-/""" : 
BILL WATTERSON 
nlf>..T'S Dfo.O~ r TH~T 
nlOSt:. Wt:R£ \RUCKS 00\o!N· 
S\-1\FT\~G at{ TliE. HI@IW~~. 
BERKE BREATHED 
BILL WATTERSON 
PRt\N CC~~E.t-11£NT \-lOW 
E.'4ER' 1\ME 1 BUILD CW>.RAm,R, liE 9.~£.5 fl. CC1Jf'l..t. ~\I~PREO OOUARS. 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

C 1961 Chron•cle Features 
D•sl,.bUied by un.versal Press Syndicate 

"Get 'em up there!" 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

W"~ C~~ll WE GE.T ,._ SNOW B\.OW£.R ?? WE. M\JS\ B£ 1\-1£. Qt\L'( F~Mili 
IN -rnt. WORlD ~~ Si\ll. ~'4£LS T\-1£ DRWEWM B~ 1-1~~0! I'M FRU-7.\NG! 
\ 

Sports
page 24 Friday, April 28, 1989 
Women's Bookstore shrinks to final eight teams 
By FRANK PASTOR 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Hoosier Lawyers, one of the favorites 
to win this year's Women's Bookstore 
Basketball tournament, came within an 
• Men's pairings I page 22 

eyelash of elimination Thursday when they defeated Aunt Flo and the Four Plugs 24-22 to advance to the quarter­finals. 
Kathy Leyden led Hoosier Lawyers with 11-of-22 shooting from the field and 
.,. 
Kathy Meyers chipped in eight baskets as the winners moved into the round of eight. 
"It was a really physical game," said Meyers. "It could have gone either way. We were down the first half, but then we went on a little spurt with three or four steals and turned it around." 
Although Hoosier Lawyers found themselves at a size disadvantage in the game, Meyers pointed to their de­fensive play as the deciding factor in the contest. 
"Nancy Butler played really good defense," said the first-year law stu­dent, "and Kelly Daly played really good defense despite being about half the size of the other players. Deb Kas­hul also hit a few big baskets in the game." 
Molly Mahoney paced Aunt Flo and the Four Plugs with six baskets, while Maureen Shea contributed five of her own. 
"They have some really good athletes on that team," added Meyers. 

Sparky's Franchise II had a much easier time of it on Thursday, beating J aegermonsters 21-2 in qualifying for the quarterfinal round. Ellen Mouch scored six points for Sparky's, while Kathleen McDavid and Sandy Botham added five each. 
"We've been playing man-to-man," said McDavid of Sparky's defense, which surrendered only one point in its previous game. "Lauren (Romeo) and Ellen do a great job out front getting the steals. We just work together as a team." 
We've Got To Put It Through downed N ads 21-18, relying · on a balanced scoring attack that featured Babs Broemmel, Kristin Miller and Allison Wojnas. 
see WOMEN I page 19 

'Wild Thing' Coffey in relief 
ND baseball hosts MCC rival Xavier in four-game set 

By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Sports Writer 
When the Notre Dame baseball team had a relief pitcher enter the game Wed­nesday against Indiana, the 
• Irish split two I page 19 
song "Wild Thing" blared from the Jake Kline Field press box. 
Indiana was no ordinary op­ponent, as the Hoosiers were an explosive ballclub. And this was no ordinary relief pitcher, as Mike Coffey's teammates would surely attest. 
It was the movie "Major League" that gave Irish pitcher Mike Passilla the idea to have "Wild Thing" played when Mike Coffey was throw­ing his warm-up pitches on the mound. 
"I thought it would be appro­priate," said Passilla, one of the two senior pitchers on the pitching staff. "We thought the song was fitting because he's the clown of the staff, and prob­ably the whole team. He keeps us on our toes." 
Mike Coffey, a junior from West Sand Lake, N.Y., is not only the comic relief of the team ; he is the top reliever. In high pressure situations, he is the one Head Coach Pat Murphy turns to. 
"Mike Coffey has a perfect 

mentality for a short-man," said Murphy. "He's a little off, he's not all there, but he's got pretty good concentration when the game is on the line." Coffey thrives when the 
game is on the line, and proof of that is his Midwestern Col­legiate Conference-leading five wins and seven saves. He has converted every save opportu­nity that he has inherited and has appeared in 21 of the 41 games the Irish have played. 
"He's got that competitive edge, and I think that has made the difference," said Murphy. "He's had some big outings against some great teams and I think that's been the differ­ence. If you don't have what it takes to pitch inside, you can't be a short-man." 
Whether it comes in the form of confidence from his coach or in being called "Wild Thing" by his teammates, Coffey revels in his role as a short reliever. 
"When I take the mound, I have the attitude that nobody can beat me," said Coffey. "That's the attitude you have to have as a reliever. When I'm out there, I give credit to no hitters, I'm the boss, I have the ball in my hand and I'm in con­trol of the game. That's the kil­ler attitude you've got to have." 
Off the mound, Coffey keeps the atmosphere light by keeping the team in high spirits. 
"He keeps us on our toes by saying funny things during serious times," said Passila. "When Coach (Murphy) or the players are uptight, Coffey cracks a joke to remind us baseball is just a game." 
Coffey, for a short reliever, has a slightly high 3.73 ERA, and despite 35 strikeouts, has walked 20 in 41 innings. 
"He's got to get more consis­tent with his fastball and his change," said Murphy. "When his change is on, it's his best pitch, but he's not always con­sistent with it. He's really not in a rhythm right now, and he's got to get himself into one." 
"The biggest thing as a short­man is that you've got to realize that you can't have your best stuff every day," said Cof­fey. "After a bad outing, you've just got to forget about it, and learn about it. You've got to realize that that's part of your role, and you've got to learn from each outing." 
Mike Coffey is improving. In his freshman year his ERA was 
8.24 in 5 games, and he im­proved his ERA to 5.79 in 14 games last year. This year, he's at 3.73, and with each out-
see COFFEY I page 20 

Champ will be Prostitution ... or maybe Adworks 
Somebody tell Pete Rose to get his money out because I have a winner for him in Bookstore Basketball XVIII. 
It's down to the final eight. Call it the Elite Eight, the Exciting Eight or the Exultant Eight, but that's where the similarities end. 
Greg Guffey 

Assistant Sports Editor 
These teams have traveled differ­ent paths to the tourney.•They're composed of graduate students, foot­ball . players, administrative personnel and law students. And, oh yeah, they even let a few ordinary students play. 
Some are just happy to be there, or so they say. Others don't leave any doubt that they won't be satisfied without the title. 
So it's three games in as many days come sun, rain, snow or anyth­ing else Mother Nature can whip up. 
It's three days of bragging about your team and bullying the refs. If one or all of the refs don't get the most courageous award, they shouldn't award it. 
The commissioners did a great job of seeding the teams, but it was not that difficult because the top four 

seeds are head and shoulders above the rest. 
Cinderella was not invited to this ball. The top seeds made sure of it. Here's the pairings with the win­
ners (and losers): 

Adwork's vs. Killer Bees: The good news for Killer Bees is that it has Kurt Rambis running the fast break. The real Kurt never ran a break like he does. The bad news is that The Good, The Bad and The Laundry 
see LAUNDRY I page 15 
More than anything else, Bookstore Basketball closely resembles playground basketball. And when it comes to fast-paced, flashy hoops played above the rim, nobody does it better than the defending champions, Adworks' All­Stars. 
Frank Pastor 
Assistant Sports Editor 
After dominating last year's tourn­ament, Adworks acquired Tony Rice, Derrick Johnson and Derek Brown to compliment the ever­steady and reliable Kevin Keyes and John "Booger" Buscher. 
Rice has been Adworks' leading scorer and is one of the finest natural athletes in the tournament. He is quick, strong and explosive. If only he played with a little more control, Rice would be virtually unstoppable. 
But despite Rice's many contribu­tions, Adworks will look to Derrick Johnson in the final rounds of the tournament. The sophomore's in­credible shooting touch, silky moves and outstanding jumping ability will make up for anything Adworks lacks in consistency. 

Adworks may not be the most con­sistent team out there, it ma.y not 


always work together as a team and it may make mistakes along the way, but it will nevertheless successfully defend the title it won a year ago. 
Here is how the final three rounds should take shape: 
Adworks vs. Killer Bees: Killer Bees, after a one-year sabbatical, returned to the tournament this year and pulled off a couple of upsets to reach the round of eight. Still, the Bees don't have what it takes to pull 
see BEES I page 15 




