
~-­
--~---l 
Spring Break -4 j


/ACCENT: People's Choice Awards preview 
Cold and sunny today with highs in the upper 20s. Chance of snow on Tuesday with highs in the lower 30s. 

IVIEWPOINT: Contras need U.S. aid 



VOL. XXII, NO. 95 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1989 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Stonebreaker, SMC student hurt in car crash 
Observer Staff Report was listed in fair condition, sus­ler said. Miller said the two taining a broken right kneecap, students had attended the Saint 
A Notre Dame football a dislocated right hip, and Mary's Junior Formal Friday player and a Saint Mary's stu­lacerations. night. dent were injured in a car ac­
Charges had not been filed as cident about 2:30 a.m. Satur­of Sunday, but Miller said day. police plan to seek charges of 
Notre Dame junior Michael driving under the influence of Stonebreaker and Saint Mary's intoxicants and not wearing a junior Ursula Garzia were hurt seat belt. in the single-car accident. John Heisler, Notre Dame 
Their car, a Jeep Cherokee sports information director, station wagon, was traveling said Saturday it would be southbound on U.S. 33 when it "premature" to discuss possi­
Stonebreaker Garzla
ran off the road near Cripe ble disciplinary actions by the Street. The car struck a stop Miller said tests showed University. sign, then skidded 20 feet and Stonebreaker to have a blood hit a utility pole, said Roseland alcohol count of 0.157 percent The Notre Dame policy on police Cpl. Larry Miller. immediately after the acci­driving while intoxicated 
Both students were taken to dent. Indiana's legal limit for states that students who are Memorial Hospital, where they intoxication is 0.10 percent. cited for off-campus DUI offen­underwent surgery. Stonebreaker told University ses will have their driving and 
Garzia was listed Sunday in officials that he and Garzia had parking privileges at Notre serious condition. She sus­stopped at Azar's Big Boy Dame revoked. Second of­tained internal injuries and fa­Family Restaurant immedi­fenders will be suspended for cial lacerations. Stonebreaker ately before the accident, Heis-at least one semester. 
Khomeini meets with Shevardnadze, asks for stronger ties with the Soviet Union 
Associated Press minister, according to Iran's after Khomeini declared Ir;m official Islamic Republic News does not need relations with the 
NICOSIA, Cyprus--Ayatollah Agency. West. This issue has divided the Ruhollah Khomeini said Sun-IRNA said Shevardnadze did Tehran hierarchy between so­day he wants strong ties with not ask Khomeini to withdraw called pragmatists, who favor Moscow to help fight the his order for Moslem zealots to more relations with the rest of "devilish" West, and Iranian assassinate British author Sal-the world, and hardliners, who legislators reportedly agreed man Rushdie because of his favor continued isolation. to consider breaking ties with book "The Satanic Verses." Rushdie has been in hiding Britain. Britain reportedly asked since Khomeini's Feb. 14 ex­
Khomeini's overtures to the Shevardnadze to press ecution order, and Iranian re-Soviet Union, which he previ-Khomeini to give a reprieve to ligious leaders put a $5.2 mil­ously condemned for its atheist Rushdie, whose book has been lion bounty on his head. ideology, came during a 10-denounced as insulting to Is-In protest, Britain withdrew hour meeting with Soviet lam. all its diplomats from its em-Foreign Minister Eduard "There was no mention of the bassy in Tehran, which had Shevardnadze. affair in Shevardnadze's been reopened in December 
It was believed to be the first speech," said IRNA, moni-after an earlier rift of more private meeting between tored in Nicosia. than a year. It also asked Iran's 88-year-old revolution-The meeting with 
5
ary patriarch and a foreign Shevardnadze came two days see IRAN, page . ..-------------------------------------,
Amore, Gilliland victorious in Saint Mary's run•off 
By BRIGID BRENNAN Schnell for treasurer by a 16 The sophomore class News Staff percent margin. ticket of Greer Gilliland, Senior class voter turnout president, Wendy Ga:rrett, 
A win for the senior class was 51· percent with zero vice president, Michele Amore ticket and the sopho­abstentions. Delaney, secretary and more class Gilliland ticket in "Since the run-offs were Peggy Abood, treasurer won last Friday's run-off con­held on Friday we were ap­by 13 percent of the votes cluded the Saint Mary's stu­prehensive about how many against the VanDersarl dent government elections. students would turn out to ticket. 
Senior class officers for vote;'~ Amore said. In ref­The VanDersatl ticket 1989-90 include Lisa Amore, erence to next year, Amore consisted of Liz VanDersarl president, Elizabeth Ehret, emphasized establishing a for president, Frannie Cap­vice president, Amy Blong, strong class unity and ''ac­pelleri for vice president, secretary and Laurel Vitale, complishing everything with Maria Alvarez for secretary treasurer. enthusiasm." and Debbie Wunder for trea· 
Amore's ticket defeated "Of course we:re dissap­surer. the Melichar ticket of Tara pointed, but we enjoyed run­Melichar for president, ning and I feel confident that Voter participation for the Carol Berkowski, for vice the other ticket will do a 'ltt sophomore run-off 36 president, Kristin Dietzler g()od job/' responded Melic-,,, ···· percent with 3 p of 
for secreta and Jane bar concernin ·their defeat. abstentions. 
I 

~\: J.
IV 
~; 
AP Photo
China walk 
President Bush waves as he walks through Tiananmen Square Saturday in Beijing. 



Bush speaks to Chinese Protestants, discusses U.S.-China relations 
Associated Press Office in the period just before 
the formal restoration of 

BEIJING--President Bush diplomatic relations between reminisced Sunday about "our the two world giants. home away home" at the The attention of Bush's top Chongwenmen Protestant aides on the trip continued to Church, telling Chinese wor-be diverted by the administra­shippers that a strong faith in tion's problem with the John God helps people to cope with Tower nomination in Washing­difficult problems. ton. 
Just before going into In Beijing, White House chief meetings with top Chinese offi-of staff John Sununu asserted cials, Bush mixed secular and that Democrats "are getting nervous" about the upcoming Senate vote on the defense seated in the sanctuary of the secretary-designate, and that some of them appeared to be 
~~ir:~~:~:;1~.~oobr:!r~~~~~~~ 
~~o~~~ah~~den behind high coming around. Speaking through an inter­Bush plans to meet with a preter, he said that while rela­group of Senate Democrats at 
tions between the United States the White House early next and China are basically sound, Tuesday, the day after he "Sometimes our problems can returns from his trip to the Far seem bigger than life itself-­East. The administration is intractable and fearsome. But trying to salvage the Tower I am convinced that, with each nomination after the Senate other, with our faith in God, we Armed Services Committee can meet any challenge, and last week voted against recom­we will." mending the former Texas 
Bush was meeting with senator's approval by the full senior Chinese leader Deng Senate. Xiaoping later Sunday, and In a gesture reminiscent of with Cambodian resistance Ronald Reagan's hosting of So­leader Prince Norodom viet dissidents in Moscow last Sihanouk. He also planned a se­year, Bush has invited China's ries of meetings with other most famous dissident, Fang high-level Chinese officials. Lizhi, to a Sunday night ban-
Bush and his wife, Barbara, lived here in 1974-75 when Bush see CHINA, page 5 was the head of the U.S. Liaison 
-~----------------­
page 2 The Observer Monday, February 27, 1989 
• 
OF INTEREST 
Vote Today for student body president and senators from 11-1 p.m. and 5-7 p.m. in your dorm. Off-campus students can vote in the Student Government offices, second floor of LaFortune Student Center, from 11-1 p.m. and 3-5 p.m. today. -The Observer 
Adult Children of Alcoholics meet tonight from 
7-8 p.m. upstairs in the CSC. All are welcome. -The Ob­
server 
The University libraries are observing the Year of Cultural Diversity with the recent acquisition of new titles relevant to the theme for the videocassette collection in the Hesburgh Library. The video collection is located in the audio center on the second floor of the Hesburgh Li­brary. -The Observer 
Cheerleading Tryouts Anyone interested in trying out for the 1989-90 Cheerleading Team must come to the gymnastics room of the Rockne Memorial if you have not yet applied. Come ready to practice at 4 p.m. with a copy of your insurance. Call Don at 283-1801 for more informa­tion. -The Observer 
UCAM Members There will be a short movie and 
meeting tonight at 8 p.m. in the Lewis Hall party room. 
-The Observer 
Women's Resource Committee presents a brown bag lunch "Barriers to the Career Development of Wo­men" by Judy Randolph, psychology graduate student. This event will be held Tuesday, Feb. 28, from 12:15-1:05 
p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
Student Art Forum meets tonight from 6:30-7:30 p.m. 
at the Snite Museum. All are welcome to help plan the 
spring event. -The Observer 
Marjorie Zolkoski, a 1988 graduate, will be recruiting for the Christian Applachian Project, an interdenomina­tional service agency in eastern Kentucky. Short and long­term volunteers are welcomed. Today and tomorrow she will be in the library concourse from 9 a.m.-1 p.m. and at the CSC from 1-5 p.m. -The Observer 
WSND FM 88.9 is looking for people interested in applying for news director for next year. No experience is necessary. Call Jim Mendenhall at 287-5758 for more information. -The Observer 
Senior Formal bid sales will be held March 14 and 15 from 6-10 p.m. in LaFortune Student Center, and March 16 from 5-9 p.m. in the LeMans Hall lobby. -The Observer 
Sophomore Business majors interested in the position of assistant student body treasurer for 1989-90 should apply in the treasurer's office, second floor LaFor­tune Student Center, between noon and 4 p.m. All applic­tions are due Thursday, March 2, by 4 p.m. Call 239-7417 for more information. -The Observer 
C.O.O.L. Campus Outreach Opportunity League, a non-profit organization which promotes student involve­ment in community service and action, will hold its annual three-day conference at Fordham University in New York from March 9 to 12. The benefit concert on March 11 will feature "10,000 Maniacs." Anyone interested in attending should contact Patrick Creadon at 289-1233. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 


Design Editor .. . ........ Bernadette Shilts Accent Editor .. Robyn Simmons Design Assistant ...................... Ann Buff Accent Copy Editor ............ The Restler Typesetters ....................... Jim Mercurio Accent Designer ........... ..... Alison Cocks ........................................... Andy Schlidt Typists.... \ ... Diana Bradley News Editor.............. . Christine Walsh ............................................. Will Zamer Copy Editor .................... Janice O'Leary ND Day Editors......... . ..... Katie Gugle Sports Copy Editor............. Greg Guffey ....................................Jennifer Richards Viewpoint Copy Editor .. .... Laura Manzi SMC Day Editor .......... Rozel Gatmaitan Viewpoint Layout .. . .. ........ Kerri Owens Layout .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Theresa DeGirolamo 
nt o..n. (USPS S99 2--4000) is published Monday throuah Friday excepe durin& cum &Del vacation periods. ne ot.nll' is published by the students of the Univcnity of Notre Dame &Del Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purc:bu­ed for S40 Pll' year <S2' Pll' semester) by writina ne OllierYII', P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, llldiaDa 46SS6. 
ne o..n. is a member of ne Allodaa.l rr-. All reproduction riahts are raerved. 
INSIDE COLUMN 




Va pays ya money, ya takes ya chances 

Mark Mclaughlin 

~·: ,...

News Editor 
Well, here it is, a Notre Dame fairytale based on reality. There's even a moral to the story ... 
Once upon a time there was a basketball game against Temple. It seemed like the student body got up on the wrong side of bed. A couple of bad calls from the referees, and the mood got ugly. By mid­way through the second half, the usual crowd references to the referees' marital habits were going full strength, despite the chee,rleaders ' attempts at motion cheers. 
Along comes a television time out that was a bit less interminable than usual. The band, attempting to keep the crowd going, had launched into one of those stir­ring renditions of the" 'Hey' song." Well, all of a sudden the game starts, then it stops. The referees confer. Then over the public address: "By NCAA rules, the band is not allowed to play during the progress of the game." 
So the crowd decides to play the 'Hey song' anyway, though I think the band egged them on a little. "Hum-de­hummmm-hum ... HEY!" and so forth. It was funny at the time. 
Look! Here comes Dick Rosenthal, mister athletic directorAdng. He yells at the band, apparently for inciting the crowd or something. Yet the crowd keeps humming along ... 

The moral of the story is that Notre Dame, like anything else in life, is what you make of it. The band and the crowd decided to make something of Notre Dame that day against Temple. Maybe it wasn't Dick Rosenthal's vi­sion of Notre Dame, but it was their own. 
We oftentimes make a big deal complaining about the decisions that are made by the powers that be at Notre Dame. Alcohol, sex, parking, social life ... we bitch a lot but it seems that we do little. 
Some of the groups on campus have decided to make their compromises with Notre Dame. The cheerleaders do Dancin' Irish stuff to pl­acate Rosenthal. The band plays "Amazing Grace'' because the Year of Cultural Diversity image has been stuffed down their throats. The Observer has stopped running alcohol adver­tisements to avoid a tangle with the dry-campus crowd under the Dome. This paper decided to knuckle under because it was easier. So did the band and the cheerleaders, though at least the cheerleader coach had the guts to resign. 
If you don't have the guts, then compromise is fine. But perhaps it's not as admirable. 
I've seen a lot of negative press about Notre Dame in this space over the last five years. Some of it has been mine. Some of it has been valid; some of it hasn't. But the bottom line is that if you don't like the alcohol policy or parie­tals or parking in the frozen tundra, then go drink and screw around and park in Main Circle for three hours. And if the administration decides to send you to counseling, then take it like a hero. 
In the end, the administration isn't Notre Dame. The football team isn't Notre Dame. The alumni aren't Notre Dame. For four years of your life, you are Notre Dame. Or better yet, Notre Dame is you. 
This being my last writing for The Observer, knock on wood, I'd just like to say a few words to a great many people who have made this job easier over the years. So to Phil Johnson, Tom Doyle and Mike Paese, Bill Hickey, Jim Riley and Chris Bednarski, the entire Public Rela­tions office, Mom, Cheryl, and especially the Big 0 staff members: thank you. 
And to those of you who haven't made my job easier, at least you've made it interesting. 


CHRISTMAS IN APRIL 
* 


* 
~ 
* * 

EVERYONE IS DOING
* 

IT! HELP REPAIR A 
* HOUSE OF A NEEDY 
SOUTH BEND 


* FAMILY 
* 

* 
* 


CONTACT YOUR HALL COUNCIL AT SAINT MARY'S 

Fred Tombar reenacts Martin Luther King Jr.'s "I Have a Dream" speech in honor of King's march on Washington in a program sponsored by the Notre Dame chapter of the NAACP on Friday. 
will be 21 on March 3 Call her with Birthday Wishes at 2679 
HAPPY 21st! 
Have a safe tour with Shenanigans 
Love, Mom, Dad & Tracie 
The Observer page 3 

Stanford and Zahm battle in Iceberg Debates final Tuesday 
Special to The Observer Debates are coming to a close. ulty and graduate students will 
Stanford and Zahm will judge the debate and present 
The Iceberg Debates final, debate the topic, "That U.S. their observations, according 
pitting Stanford and Zahm economic aid to a Latin Amer­to Iceberg Debates Chairman 
Halls, will cap a five-week com­ican country should be tied to Joseph McKenna. 
petition Tuesday, Feb. 28 at 9 the improvement of that A $500 award will be pre­
p.m. in the Hesburgh Library country's record of upholding sented to the winning hall for Auditorium. the human rights of its its general fund by University 
The debates began Jan. 30 as citizens." President Father Edward Mal­the first campus-wide debate Stanford will take the affirm­loy. The runner-up will receive series to be held annually on ative side of the debate while $250 for its general fund, social justice issues in a single­Zahm will argue the negative McKenna said. elimination tournament. Five side in a standardized format A reception in the Library weeks, 28 teams and 112 com­used throughout the debates. Lounge will follow the debate petitors later, the Iceberg A five-member panel of fac-final. 

Aviation and FBI bomb experts conduct investigation of United Airlines' jet crash 
Associated Press Zealander aboard United and Navy ships and helicopters 
Flight 811 were instantly blown resumed their search of the 
HONOLULU--Navy and through the opening, and at Pacific about 100 miles south Coast Guard ships Saturday least one was sucked into one of here for debris from the searched 3,000 square miles of of the jet's engines, authorities plane. A vessel Friday found ocean for debris from a jumbo said. The airplane was at 20,000 two airline seats, a cushion and jet in an effort to determine feet when the accident hap-a 4-by-6-foot piece of metal whether structural failure pened. believed to be from the jet, ripped open the plane, hurling Honolulu hospitals reported Coast Guard spokesman Keith nine people to their deaths. treating 27 people, mostly for Spangler said. 
Investigators gathered to minor injuries. The nine missing passengers begin examining the damaged Five people remained hospi-were identified as Susan Craig United Airlines jet, which talized Saturday. The most and Harry Craig of Morris­made an emergency landing seriously injured were in fair town, N.J. ; Rose Harley of Friday with a 10-foot-wide, 40-condition at Queen's Medical Hackensack, N.J.; Anthony foot-high hole in its right side. Center--a 48-year-old woman Fallon and Barbara Fallon of The Boeing 747 had been en with cervical and abdominal Long Beach, Calif.; Mary T. route to Auckland, New injuries and a 73-year-old man Handley of Bay City, Mich.; Zealand with 336 passengers with chest pain. Lee Campbell of Wellington, and 18 crew members aboard. More than 200 people New Zealand; and Dr. John Mi­
Aviation experts said the boarded other flights home; chael Crawford and John most likely cause of the those who didn't want to fly Swann, both of Sydney, tragedy was metal fatigue. were put up in hotels. Australia. However, three FBI bomb ex-Early Saturday 110 pas-According to Hawaii Depar­perts from Washington were sengers from Flight 811 arrived tment of Transportation sent to join the investigation, in New Zealand aboard a spe-spokesman Marilyn Kali, the along with a 21-member team cial United flight. 18-year-old Boeing 747, the from the National Transporta-"It was a nightmare and I'm oldest in United's jumbo jet tion Safety Board and a smaller glad I got back on that plane fleet, took off for New Zealand team from Boeing. today because if I'd waited I at 1:34 a.m. 
Six Americans, two don't know if I would have ever Australians and a New flown again," said Cathy Pilot David N. Cronin heard 
~~----~~-~~~-------------------~~ M~~. ~W~~~n, w~ ''a~~iliump··~~bcl~e~ ~ ~ said she was sitting about 10-12 No. 3 engine failed a few i( iC rows behind the hole in the minutes into the flight. A short ~ iC fuselage of Flight 811. time later, the No.4 engine fire ~ ~ "I think that the United crew indicator activated and Cronin ie Camp Vega ~ didanexcellent,incrediblejob. shut it down. 
i( iC The pilot should be recommen-At 2:16a.m., Cronin radioed ~ iC ded, commended--he was fan-the traffic control tower, as­~ FOR BOYS FOR GIRLS ~ tastic,"shesaid. "Iwasafraid, king for emergency vehicles, i( 5 GLEN LANE P.O. BOX 1771 ""1' I didn't think we were gonna which were standing by when i( MAMARONECK, N.Y. 10543 DUXBURY, MA. 02332 iC make it ... I thought that this the plane landed at 2:33a.m. ~ 914-381-5983 617 934 6536 ~ was the end." United said Cronin would 
~ --~ At dawn, three Coast Guard have no comment. 
iC STAFFING NOW FOR ~ ~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!lt ~ THE 1989 SUMMER SEASON ~ ~~~~:~~~~~~~sociation t POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR t and r::,::~' Governm~nt 

t c~~:S~~~RS £ Wf;t 

~ WHO LOVE CHILDREN AND HAVE STRONG SKILLS ~ ~ 
• AND ABILITY TO TEACH ONE OR MORE OF THE ~ ANNuAL ie FoLLowiNc ACTIVITIEs: ie srUI)E. Nrt Archerv, Arts &Crafts, Baseball, Basketball, Bicycling, computer t . . 
iC Science, Dance, Dramatics, Field Hockev, General counselors, ieie i 


"':R· r-· 
~ Guitar, Gymnastics, Lacrosse, Photography, Piano, Pioneering, ! . . .. · ·. ·. .·. ·. ·. • ~ Riding, Rocketry, Ropes course, Sailing, soccer, Softball, iC EXHJBl:T .·iC Support Staff, swimming, Tennis, Track, volleyball, waterskiing, iC Weight Training, Windsurfing, woodworking, Yearbook. ~ 
~ ~ 
on March 20, 21, and 22
~ FULL EICHT WEEK SEASON iC iC DROP BY FOR AN INTERVIEW: ~ Only flat works with a maximum size of 3'x 
3' accepted 
• iC First purchase prize: $200 Second and third prize: $100 each
t TODAY, TOMORROW and WEDNESDAY at La Fortune Student iC Union, Room 108, from 11 :00 AM to 6:00 PM. iC Deadline for submittance of artwork is Tuesday. March 14 
iC Applications can be picked up at the Office of Student Activities. 

~----------------------------------~~~--------~~------------~ 
page 4 The Observer Monday, February 27, 1989 
$1 billion in heroin seized by agents in Chinatown 
Associated Press packed in hollowed-out golf night of Feb. 20 hit three loca­"No," replied a colleague, drugs was $3 million cash. cart tires. tions in the borough of Queens, with a straight face. "It was Fox, putting the seizure in NEW YORK--It wasn't like "This seizure is much bigger grabbing 828 pounds of 90 per­828 pounds." "We didn't know perspective, said the FBI had 
the "French Connection" 
than the 'French Connection,'" cent pure heroin from Sout­if we were going to get just a taken in just over 500 poundsheroin bust. There was no said U.S. attorney Andrew J. heast Asia--enough to supply couple of pounds (of heroin) or of heroin in all of 1988. The cel­
careening car chase, no 
Maloney, who prosecuted some one out of every five U.S. what when we went in," Fox ebrated Pizza Connection case, "Popeye" Doyle cracking the of the cases stemming from the heroin addicts for a year. said three days later. "What a in which heroin was distributed 
case. 
drug ring that inspired the The amount of heroin was so way to start the week." nationwide through pizzerias,Oscar-winning 1971 film. big that when Assistant FBI produced 18 convictions but no But agents who smashed a "The biggest seizure from Director James M. Fox arrived Eighteen suspects were ar­major drug seizure. Hong Kong-to-Chinatown nar­the whole 'French Connection' at his office Tuesday morning, rested in New York City and 13 
cotics ring last week stumbled was about 220 pounds. But this­he cautiously asked if a radio 
in Detroit, Los Angeles, San While a bust of this size will 
onto the largest heroin haul in -everybody was amazed by the report he had heard was cor­Francisco, Chicago, Sin­
hurt the heroin trade, Maloney 

U.S. history when they seized size of this seizure." rect: Had 300 pounds of heroin gapore, Hong Kong and acknowledged it was no death
$1 billion worth of the drug 
Federal authorities on the really been seized? Canada. Seized alon with the blow. 











$99 rotmdtrip airfares on Northwest Airlines. 
Aspecial offer for students,
only for American Express Cardmembers. 
If you want to go places, it's time for the American Express® Card. 
Because now you can take advantage of new travel privileges on Northwest Airlines onlyforfull-time students who carry theAmerican Express Card 
Travel privileges that offer: 

.~ 'HJXJ $99 roundtrip tickets-fly to any of NORTI-IWEST the mo_re than 18~ cities served ?Y North-AIRLINES west mth~ contiguous 48 Umted _States. 
LOOK ro us Only one ticket may be used per six-month period. 
SpecialQuarterlyNorthtwstDestination Discounts throughout1969-up to 25% off the lowest available fare. 5,000 bonus miles in Northwest's WORLDPERKS® free travel program-where only 20,000 miles gets you afree roundtrip ticket to anywhere Northwest flies in the contiguous 48 United States or Canada. 
And, of course, you'll enjoy all the exceptional benefits and personal service you would expect from American Express. 
The only requirements for privileged travel: you must be aCardmember, you must be afull-time stu­dent, and you must charge your Northwest Airlines tickets with the Card.* 
Getting the Card is easier than ever because now you can apply by phone. Just calll-800-942-AMEX. We'll take your application and begin to process it right away. What's more, with our Automatic 
Approval offers, you can qualify now while you're still in school. 
Apply now. Fly later -for less. 

Apply Now: 1-800-942-AMEX 
*Some restrictions may apply. For complete offer details, calll-800-942-AMEX. Current student Cardmembefli automatically receive two $99 vouchefli in the mail. © 1989 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. 

Monday, February 27, 1989 The Observer 

Fed encourages higher rates to ward off possible inflation 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON--The Federal Reserve Board's deci­sion last week to boost its key lending rate to combat inflation is likely to be followed by fur­ther credit-tightening moves and even higher interest rates, many analysts believe. 
They say the central bank's 
move to increase the discount 
rate by a half-percentage point 
to 7 percent-on Friday came 
too late and was too mild to ef­
fectively quell an inflation 
spiral, and that further steps to 
cool the overheating economy 
will be necessary. 
"The Fed is signaling that it's definitely trying to encour­age higher rates in order to fight the inflationary pres­sure," said Donald Ratajczak of the Economic Forecasting 
THE ARMY CAN HELP YOU GET AN EDGE ON HIGH-TECH TRAINING. 
If you want to get an edge on tomorrow's technology today, the Army can help. We offer training in over 250 challenging specialties that could put you on the fast track to the future. 
The Army offers a lot more than just high-tech skills. We'll train you on state-of-the-art equipment, but more important, we'll help you gain the experince, knowledge and self-confidence necessary to reach your career goals. 
The future can belong to you--and Army skill training can make it happen. 
For more information, call your Army Recruiter today. 
SGT Robert Hackley 
234-4187 
ARMY 
BE All YOU CAN BE 
Center at Georgia State Uni­versity. 
"The only question is whe­ther they're signaling a little late and a little timidly," he said. 
Boosting the discount rate, the fee the central bank charges for short-term loans to banks, is the strongest signal the Fed can send of its concern about inflation. 
The Fed also has been employing more subtle credit-tightening moves for the past year, reducing the availability of cash and thus driving up the interest rates that banks charge when making loans. 
Major banks last week boosted their prime rate-­charged to the most credit­worthy commercial customers--for the second time in two weeks to 11.5 percent as lenders continue to pass along their higher costs for funds. 
A variety of lending rates covering everything from home mortgages to new cars are expected to ratchet upward as a result of the latest round of Fed tightening, and the pat­tern is expected to repeat itself. 
"Until the Fed sees some clear evidence that the eco­nomy is slowing down, it is going to continue to tighten," said economist David Wyss of Data Resources Inc. in Lexi­ngton, Mass. "It believes the economy is running too fast, in­flation is accelerating and it's going to put on the brakes. But it takes awhile for the brakes to work." 
Higher interest rates are used to gradually moderate economic growth to avoid the higher prices caused by tight labor markets and supply bot­tlenecks. 

Finnish claim 'sex holidays' necessary 
Associated Press 
HELSINKI, Finland--Adults who want to alleviate the stress of everday life should have sex more often and even consider taking "sex holidays," accor­ding to a draft report prepared by a government-appointed committee. 
The committee concluded that Finns should concentrate more on the joys of sex and the sense of well-being it brings and less on negative things such as lewdness and sexually­transmitted diseases, a mem­ber said. 

The Observer 
114 Ml 

Don"t tttmk of r. as managmQ a crew ot aoolescents emascUiatmg com plants for tnree or tour weeK~ T~mk of nmsteac a' vou·licKe; to tne trootcs 2 year from no1·: sand mstead ot snow. warm oreeze' msteao at wmdchillfactor~ 
P1oneer Hi·Bred lnternaltonai. Inc. is Jookmg for college stuoents w~o unoerstand the onn:.ole of aeferrec 9rauflcall0n to we"' as cornra::: oeiasselers and crew suoervrsors 
th:s summer. 
We aomi1 il's no: evervooo)'s f1rst cnotce tor summer emmoyment. And it's almost nooooy·s 10ea o! a 900d ume. Bur irs a outcK way ·to ouiiG a cas~ stash tor Spnng Breai;. 
010 we ment1on tnere·s some tnstan: 
gratiftcatton as well? Its a fnnge oenef1; 
called tne rest of tne summer ott Write us 
today for more details -w~ile you're 
wtshmg you were someplace else. 
@. 

PIONEER HI·BAED INTERNATIONAL. tNC. 
'~"111"-'""''"'r-OOI>Iol'·,...&r.all\tforl\IDOI\l.lfl:. &t!.....,,lowii!.SI­
--------------ltearoo{)t1 resronse.: -------------­
=Tms rs nm a comm:-;merr.. you unaerstanC. out l m wilhnc to exorore tne conce::;: Senc1 me tne ae:ans 
::: I m wnttn~ from Oavtana Beacr.. Sign me up tor anotner sesstor. 
~ Mv talKs aren't oo1nc: to buv ttlrs stuf1 aoout '1ne rest of tne summer or." Tell me aomr. addit1ona! oDoonunn1es 1r1·Jum! ana' A·uoust 
(Name! (Adoress) 
(Cttyl (State) (1elepMne) 
mail to: PIONEER HI-BRED INT'L INC. Flora Production Plant (219) 967-4173 416 North Center Street 

The panel's work was des­cribed in a story published last week by the country's largest newspaper, Helsingin Sanomat. It published notes for a draft memo the committee sent to the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs. 
The memo recommends that people be "given the possibility of having sex holidays during which they can forget pressing matters and concentrate on relaxing in erotic pleasure and satisfaction.'' 
The notes were written by a member of the Eroticism and the Promotion of Health Com-



China 
continued from page 1 

'~D~E~...~."~S~SE~L~FO~R~D~~~~~,u-~T~O~N~A~::!~a~ush o~~!r also l~~~J~~ 
proponents of democratic reform to the Texas-style bar­becue in honor of President Yang Shangkun and other leaders. 


The Observer I Matt Mittino

Dirty dancing 
Roger Hipp and Laura Polutanovich dance the night away at the all­campus SYR held on Friday. 
mittee, appointed by the mini­stry a year ago to study health and sex in Finnish society. 
Sexually transmitted dis­eases such as gonorrhea and syphilis are decreasing in Fin­land, and the number of abortions has dropped by 50 percent since the 1970s, mainly due to government-sponsored information programs. 
The spread of AIDS also seems to have slowed in Fin­land. The latest figures show 243 known HIV carriers and 41 AIDS cases, only a slight in-
Bush, at the urging of dozens of U.S. lawmakers, is expected to bring up China's suppression of pro-independence activists in Tibet and China's human rights record in general. 
From the time he arrived in this sprawling city on Saturday afternoon, Bush had been greeted by well-wishers. At a banquet Saturday night, he said that U.S. and Chinese 
AIR TRAVEL 
IMMEDIATE RESERVATIONS 
TICKETS DELIVERED 



255-7272
CALL US NOW FOR BEST PRICES 
... . international--­
<liD tountiltrawl·--... 
117 S. MAIN STREET MISHAWAKA, IN 46544 
Grad Students, Professors, Employees 


MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Less than 1 0 minutes from campus 
* 
Pool, Clubhouse * locked intercom entrances 

* 
Washer & dryer in each apartment * flexible leases 


( also -furnished executive suites ) call for details-277-3731 


crease over the same period last year. 
Pauliina Aarva, a member of committee, said the education campaigns have worked well, but she wants more discussion of the positive aspects of sex. 
"What we have to do is to be able to talk about sex in a pos­itive manner. It seems that whenever the subject is brought up it is either in asso­ciation with such negative ele­ments as AIDS, diseases, abor­tions or as something lewd and dirty," she said. 
leaders "owe it to mankind to work together." 
During his talk Sunday, Bush noted that his daughter, Dorothy LeBlond, had been baptized at the Chongwenmen Protestant Church here in 1975, when she was 16. 
"That gives us a special feeling of identity and warmth," he said. 



Iran 
continued from page 1 
Iranian diplomats to leave LQn­don. -· 
The 11 other European Com­munity countries as well as Norway, Sweden and Canada, recalled their top diplomats from Iran, and Tehran brought its ambassadors home. 
No diplomatic ties have been formally broken. But religious leaders in Tehran last week called for a break with Britain. 
IRNA said more than 100 of the 270 deputies in Iran's Par­liament sponsored a bill Sun­day to put relations with Brit­ain to the vote. The bill was "passed overwhelmingly," making it a priority at the next parliamentary session Tues­day, IRNA said. 



Viewpoint 
Monday, February 27, 1989

page 6 
America must support the Contra cause 
It's been one year now since we "gave postponed, strikes repressed, and labor peace a chance" in Nicaragua. That is, leaders murdered by soldiers. As San­about one year ago, after a lengthy bat-Policies such as these naturally lead tle between the Reagan Administration to refugees. An estimated 500,000 to and Congress, the House voted to cut 750,000 Nicaraguans have fled the off military aid to the Contras. country, which is between one-fourth Democrats and liberal special interest and one-sixth of the population. ABC groups argued that with the Contra war News last month reported that 2000 ended, the Sandinistas would lose their Nicaraguans per week escape. Not only excuse for repression and would begin dinista Agrarian Reform Minister to democratize. So, one wonders: What Jaime Wheelock said last year, "The is the Sandinista record of the last . revolution rewards, but it also twelve months? punishes. If anyone raises a strike ban­---------------ner here, we will cut off his hands." Kevin Smant do they flee Sandinista reptes;:;ion, but 
on politics also a disastrous economy. Inflation 
The respected columnist Charles Krauthammer asked the same ques­tion, and came up with disturbing results. The Sandinistas continue to practice repression. They admit to holding 3000 political prisoners. Un­doubtedly they have more, but even this number is extremely high; it is equal to one-tenth of one percent of the country's population. To put this in con­text, the American equivalent would be 250,000 prisoners. Furthermore, municipal elections have been now runs 22,000 percent annually. 
These internal problems have not stopped the Managua regime from turning its attention to its "allies" in other nations. The Sandinistas continue to serve as sanctuary and supplier to the Marxist rebels in El Salvador, who recently have escalated their assas­sination campaign against mayors and their attacks against urban centers. Is it a coincidence that Honduras has also just undergone a wave of assassina­tions of government officials? 
I suppose now I should berate liberals, both here at Notre Dame and in America, for not heeding these facts. 

I wonder if I should bother. For one comes to realize that this is not an analytical-scientific discussion con­cerning the nature of a budding com­munist regime. Rather, the arguments of both sides in this debate really ex­press differing views regarding the na­
ture of communist states, human na­ture, history, and value priorities. That is, American liberals are saying things like: the Sandinistas are "just like us" and "want the same things." Nicaraguans want to devote their energies to raising their standard of · living, not fighting "counter­revolutionaries." Communist govern­ments are no longer revolutionary and aggressive. The cold war is over and it was probably America's fault anyway. If the U.S. makes a concession on the Contra question, Nicaragua will follow its example. 
We on the other side have tried to respond. Whatever the Nicaraguan people are like, the Sandinista regime under which they live is aggressive in its structure, its doctrine, and its prac­tice. While we realize war's horrors, we argue that there is something worse than war--a Communist victory. However much communism has changed, nothing in its conduct demonstrates that we can assume a permanently peaceful attitude toward it. 
It is easy to become pessimistic. The roll call of those who have asked for help from us grows longer: the Hun­garian rebels of 1956, the Cubans at the Bay of Pigs; the South Vietnamese; and now the Nicaraguan contras. All were either denied help entirely, or were abandoned in a time of crisis. Of one thing I am certain, despite the ad­vent of Mr. Gorbachev and his "reforms," Communists will continue to compete with the United States for world supremacy, be it economically, militarily, or diplomatically. How many of us wish to see a world dominated by the USSR, even if it is led by Gorbachev? Given this, it does not matter how "vulnerable" or "changing" the Soviets and their proxies are, if we do not also attempt to compete and take advantage of their difficulties. 
We cannot allow allies such as the Contras to die. A contest must, and will, have a winner. In the end, America is bound to lose if it does not try to win. 
Kevin Smant is a graduate student in history and is a regular Viewpoint col­umnist. 

Honoring one's parents 
For all the tender moments my par­ents and I shared during Junior Par­ents' Weekend, I could not help but feel the strain as the whole bulwark of pa­rental authority met head-on the fragile framework of independence I have worked to develop at Notre Dame. Each time we were asked to turn and recognize "our parents, without whom we wouldn't be here" was like throwing a freshman to the hulking Irish closet monster which lurks behind the rheto­ric of the "Notre Dame family." The beast feeds on guilt and his bite incul­cates a monstrous idea which I think, sadly, tortures many Domers: that their parents' wishes are relevant to what they should do with their lives. 
Marty Tracey 
guest column 
Only the Fourth Commandment carries a promise along with its injunc­tion. Presumably, the values behind the other commandments are evident enough so that rewards need not be ap­pended to them to provide incentive for their observance. However, the Fourth Commandment, "Honor your father and your mother," is qualified by the clause ''that your days may be prolonged, and that it may go well with you, in the land which the Lord your God gives you" (Deut. 5: 16). Those honoring their parents not only stand justified in the Lord's eyes but also receive the consolation prizes of lon­gevity and prosperity. 
Biblical sociologists point out that an attitude of tender solicitude shown by the young toward their older gener­taions is conducive to a stable society in which community traditions can be passed smoothly. Some speculate that the command to honor our parents may be read in a strictly economic sense; a kind of primitive, filial social security system: when parents are no longer able to support themselves, their children must support them. Whatever the "original" meaning, it is clear that a sense of duty to parents permeates the Judeo-Christian tradition. 
Traditionally, Jesus is looked upon as the fulfillment of the Old Law; a prophet whose purpose is not to erase even a dot of the law but rather to il­luminate the inner-personal meaning of the predominantly social code. In many ways he seems to tighten rather than to loosen the old laws. Christians must not only avoid adultery, but even the lustful glance; they must avoid anger, not just murder. What might be the deeper meaning, the new injunction, behind the old command to honor par­ents? 
Clearly it is not some kind of obse­quious surrender to our parents' wishes. Nor is it necessarily to choose a career which will secure the parents' retirement. If it were, one might wonder if Jesus' choice of 'mendicant prophet' might reflect some poor fin­ancial planning. Upon undertaking his ministry, Jesus shows a disinterest bor­dering on disregard for his family. His preaching is clearly not what the family had wanted--they think he's nuts and even try to have him locked up. It is not surprising that only in his hometown is Jesus powerless to per­form miracles. Only when he leaves home in a definite and self-directed way does Jesus have power to make the blind see and the lame walk. 
The Christian message indeed seems antithetical to the kind of "guarantor­of-smooth-social-transition" model of 

family relations discussed above. Jesus "My mother and my brothers are those promises that his call will pit father who hear the word of God and do it" against son--not that it will make for (Luke 8: 21). What we do with our lives pleasant family dinners. In fact, is neither ours nor our parents' to leaving home in a way which parents decide. Christians do not choose d? ~ot unde_rstand seems integral to Ch-careers but heed vocatins, be they rishan fulfillment. I doubt very much secular or religious. And while the thatZebedeegaveJamesandJohnslaps opinions of others close to us are not on the back and _ten buc~s for the road negligible in discerning our respective when they left him holdmg the nets by calls, ultimately only the individual can the shores of Galilee. tell where God is leading her!him. The The deeper meaning behind the Chr-irony is that those who honor their par­istian tradition of honoring parents ents in the old sense usually do well and may lie within a deeper understanding live long, as the Fourth Commandment of "parents." Jesus does not call Joseph promises. How they stand in the light 
"father" for he has only one Father, of the Gospel is another matter. 
who is in Heaven. And when Jesus is 
told that his mother and brothers are Marty Tracey is a junior theology 
waiting outside to see him, he answers, major. 


Editorial Board OJSerations Board 
Edotor-m-Choef . Chns Murphy Business Manager John Oxnder
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
Managmg Editor Chris Donnelly Advertismg Design Manager . .Molly KiiiPn News Editor Regis Coccia Advertismg Manager L1nda Goldschmidt 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1ty of News £dolor Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager Bernadene Sh1lts Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College ndoes not necessarily reflect the polic1es of Viewpoint Edit... ..... Dave Bruner Systems Manager Mark Ridgeway the adm1n1strat1on of e1ther Institution. The news is reported as accurately and ObjeCtively as Sports Editor .. ....... Marty Strasen Controller . Todd Hardiman poss1ble Uns1gned edotonals represent the op1n1on of the maJOnty of the Editorial Board Accenr £dolor Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager . . . . Marga Bruns Commentaries. leners and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of theor authors. Column Saint Mary's Edotor Sandy Cerimele space IS available to all members of the community and the tree express1on of vary1ng Photo Edotor M1chae1 Moran opon1ons on campus. through leners. is encouraged 
Founded November 3,1966 
---------------~~-~---~--~-~-----------------------------------­



Viewpoint

Monday, February 27, 1989 page 7_ 


Accepting cultural diversity 
For too long now I've been standing on the outside waiting for others to grow up, and I'm tired of waiting. For too long people have prejudged me, have formed opinions of me, or have as­sumed any gossip or rumor they heard about me was true. And for too long I've been blocking out this eighth grade behavior and keeping everything in­side. Well, hear me out now. 
Diane Alvarez 
guest column 
--------------· 
Since I was born, I've always been teased by kids, "Are you mixed?", "Are you a zebra?", or "Are you an oreo cookie?" Not that it was anyone else's business, or that it should make any difference. But I excused their cruelness and knew that, deep down in­side, we all had a lot of growing up to do. Now that we're all in college and have good educational backgrounds, I thought others would have grown up as much as I have. Was I ever wrong. A large number of black people here on campus feel I look too White for them, I act too White for them, and/or I talk too White for them. A good number of white people who know me are afraid 

JPW is an important event 
Dear Editor: 
In response to Miss Walsh's column on JPW I would simply like to ask one question: What is different about JPW? 
For freshmen, sophomores, and seniors the answer should be nothing. They can continue their normal routines of sleep, study, and relaxation without the help of the junior class. There is a minor inconvenience of more people on campus and the Joyce ACC being closed for two nights--but it's no worse than a football weekend. 
For juniors, the answer should be that JPW is one of the most memorable weekends at Notre Dame. It is a special time to meet the parents of your room­mates, and to spend quality time with your own parents. 
I feel sorry for those juniors unable to participate in JPW, but I feel espe­cially sorry for those like Miss Walsh who would "escape the drudgery of JPW" to drink in Leicester Square. 
Gary Gerlacher Dillon Hall 
Feb. 22, 1989 
JPW seemed all too short for juniors 
Dear Editor: 
We, as members of the junior class, have a few comments concerning Christine Walsh's anti-JPW article in Wednesday's Observer. 
to ask what it's like to be a minority, what my social preference is, andlor how I know all the black athletes. A majority of men on this campus feel inferior to varsity athletes and just be­cause I have a few football players for friends, they assume I only want to talk to football players. 
So, for the record. . . my father is Spanish, and my mother is Black, but why should anyone care because there 
is no one in the United States who can say they're 100 percent black, white, or any other nationality. As human beings, we have been on this continent too long for all nationalities not to have 
interacted with one another at some point in time. Just look around, there are too many different shades of skin and hair to assume that, if you don't act a certain way, you're not living up to your nationality. 
As far as the way I act or talk, envi­ronment and family have a lot to do with that. I am loved and cared for by my family, and I'm not afraid to share my love, warmth, and happiness with others outside my family. And as for my voice or the way I talk, I'm an En­glish major who won't lower my voice for anyone or talk slang just to please others. 
Why do I know all the black athletes? When you first come here as one of 270 minorities, you look for other minorities so as not to feel too alone on a campus of 9,000 students. The other reason, as a student in financial need and a Notre Dame gymnast, my only choice of worktStudy was to work train­ing table three times a week after gym­nastics practice my freshman year, which is why I know so many football players. 
My social preference is anyone who's willing to take time to like me for who I am. 
In closing, my advice to the Notre Dame student body is the following: 
Cultural diversity does not start with an event, a larger recruitment of minorities, or more financial aid given out to lower income families. It starts from the heart. 
Don't be so closed-minded to others that you choose not to be friends with others because their appearance is dif­ferent from yours. 
Don't be afraid to sincerely ask ques­tions because that's the basis for learn­ing in life. 
Don't believe in gossip, rumors, or assume facts because you're only lowering yourself to the maturity of an eighth grader if you do so. 
Throughout all of Miss Walsh's com­plaints about her "horrible" weekend, she failed to mention exactly how JPW interfered with her social life. Was there something about the presence of juniors' parents that forced students to resort to some alternative lifestyle, such as going to Theodore's or spending the whole weekend in the library? We suppose that in honor of JPW, every hall rector decreed that no "non­juniors" were allowed to leave their dorms. Certainly, the local Domino's and Little Caesar's establishments would have been ecstatic to learn of this development. 
Of course, the JPW activities may have been an imposition upon those who wished to use the facilities at the Joyce ACC. However, Miss Walsh did not ex­press any desire to 'hoop it up' or 'pump iron'. Yet if one did wish to participate in such physical activities, there are adequate facilities in the Rockne Memorial and the Loftus Center. 
Possibly, Miss Walsh was upset that the parents came into town and 'stole' her junior friends for a weekend. What are just two days out of an entire school year, anyway? 
Also, we are not sure what Miss Walsh meant when she spoke of "spend­ing too much time with Mom and Dad.'' How is this possible, considering most students do not spend more than four weeks with their parents between the months of August and May? Most of us welcome the opportunity to spend a weekend with our parents. For many juniors, the parents weekend seemed all too short. 

We only hope that Miss Walsh will share with us the solutions to the "problems of world hunger, the na­tional debt, and the meaning of life" that she discovered during the "JPW Ordeal" in her next column. 
Keven Whiteside Christopher Spegele Dillon Hall 
Feb. 22, 1989 

A call to vote thoughtfully 
Dear Editor: 

For the past week the candidates 
vying for Notre Dame's student body 
president and vice-president have cov­
ered our campus in the form of posters 
on our bulletin boards, personal ap­
pearances in our dorm rooms, and a 
debate in Cushing Auditorium. Each 
ticket has worked hard to distinguish 
itself by sharing their vision for the up­
coming year. 

As we watch the election develop and 
look at the platforms of each ticket, it 
has caused us to reflect upon our role 
over the past year. There have indeed 
Doonesbury 
THINGS JUSTC()(JWN7 88 B87TeR, JOAN!f3.. PI~ fOUNf? SOM[:;()N~ 
Per<F&CT 7D HUP TAl<& CAll& OF 7H/38ABY­ZONKER.! 
ZONKER? MY ONl-Y 
G~Nf?OI!W /$ 8/3/NG WOI<WAFT/3R ~ -r-~ZONKe~? 
/ 

Don't think you're getting so ed­ucated by professors that you can't learn from others outside the class­room. 
Don't be afraid to introduce yourself to someone of a different nationality. 
If you don't stop comparing yourself to others, you'll never be happy with yourself. 
Most importantly, don't think you don't have the time for others or for listening to their problems. Sometimes, all a friendship or a person who's down may need is not a listening ear or shoulder to cry on but just a hug. 
My apology to anyone who feels of­fended by this article or feels I'm being too harsh on others. Don't misun­derstand me. I don't think the student body as a whole, or even the majority of the student body, is closed-minded, cold, or self-centered. But a significant number can pull us all down as a com­munity. Over all, this article is meant to be a reminder to all to love one an­other for who we are on the inside. We can all learn from the happiness, mis­takes, and pain of others. 
A very special thanks to my friends, roommate, and family who have been there for me and especially those who have given me a hug when I needed it. Diane Alvarez is a junior English major and education minor. 


P.O. Box Q 
been a great number of successes as well as occasional setbacks; however, more than anything we have come to realize the great number of ways stu­dent government directly impacts the lives of Notre Dame students. Student government assumes many roles ran­ging from the planning of events on campus to representing student inter­ests to the University administration. 
The success of student government, and thus the quality of student repre­sentation, depends upon the active par­ticipation of the student body and the selection of its leaders. There is a sub­stantial difference between the ideas and methodologies of all the tickets. Therefore we encourage all of you to carefully evaluate each of the tickets in order to find those who will best rep­resent your interests. Student govern­ment does make a difference, and the difference rests entirely upon those people whom you elect. Vote and vote thoughtfully today. 
Thomas P. Doyle Student Body President Michael M. Paese Student Body Vice-President 
Feb. 24, 1989 

Have something to say? The Viewpoint page depends upon the participation of its readers. All members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community are encouraged to submit commentary. Typewritten letters receive preference. All submissions are subject to editing. Address articles to Viewpoint, P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Garry Trudeau Quote of the Day 
H&Y, PIHAT R&LAX, He'S PIORJ<!NG OUT t<JNC¥J. f}()U6H GR&AT! ZONK.'s!rfY8!35T /JOE;$ ANANNY FRJ8N£J IN TH£3 WORU?. PUU. [)OWN, IF PI~ CAN'T TRJJSTHIM, ANY/1/AY?
PIHO CANP/5 TRiJST? 

\.,?,w-........
I 

'Good and evil both increase at compound interest.' 
-C. S. Lewis 







Accent 
Working for justice in South Africa 
~8 
Surprises in 1Choice' awards 
I 
f there were a case some­themselves choose the where in the world that con­recipients of the People's tained one of every type of Choice Awards through a spe­award created, the light glis­cial Gallup Poll. Performers tening off the trophies might value this award because blind even those viewers they know that, without fans, wearing sunglasses. And they will fail. One million Os­among all the Oscars and cars do not the career of a Grammys and Superbowl hated actor make. trophies would be a carefully In addition to traditional crafted glass award with a categories such as 
Favorite 
JOE BUCOLO 
To Be Continued ... 
sparkle as radiant as that of TV Comedy, this year's the gold trophies but with a presentation includes two spe­name not so apt to roll off cial categories: All-time Fa­one's tongue: The People's vorite TV Series and All-time Choice Award. Favorite Motion Picture. Two 
On Sunday, March 12 at 9 startling nominations are also p.m., CBS will present "The present this year. The first is 15th Annual People's Chioce the nomination of Awards." While this award "Roseanne" in the Favorite may not be as prestigious as TV Comedy Series category an Emmy or Oscar, it may be with "The Cosby Show" and the most highly-valued award "Cheers." Seldom does a new in the industry. While mem­show have a large enough bers of the Motion Picture following to make this cate­and Television Academies gory. "Roseanne" is also choose the winners of Oscars nominated for Favorite New and Emmys, the viewers TV Comedy Series with 

A native South African, Professor Peter Walshe is very active in the anti-apartheid movement here at Notre Dame. 
Calvin and Hobbes 
lex)( AI 111IS, \-lOBBES ! '{OIJ Hf:IIJE Ttl 'SE~O I~ RJJR 
wm., ~'r UQ\. 1\\1'5 S1\lt:F 
.l\JSI S\1>.® ~L~'{S Mfl.~S

I couLD ORDER f>..N amm,L lfi< "PR<Xlr OF P\JRCW>s£ 
1\\E.Rf, OR M~ ~EAR\ 51'.\P.

CI-IOC..Olfo.IE FROS\tD r----' stA\5' m m 1\, 11 Sf>..iS. 
S\JGI>.R ISOt<\Bs 
1\\\S'll \f:l\(f 1'-.----,.----1 
8~A.N\~ I 
F0RI:.I/£R..
' 
Monday, February 27, 1989 
SARA VOIGT accent writer 
T 
hrough his research and teaching, Peter Walshe tries to achieve a noble goal. He aims to heighten aware­ness about the horrors and injustices of apartheid in South Africa. 
Walshe has taught at Notre Dame in the departments of government and international studies since 1967. Currently he teaches courses about Third World and African de­velopment. He has recently been awarded a MacArthur Foundation study grant for the upcoming academic year. This grant will allow him to research and write a new book on the roles that Christi­anity and liberation theology play in the anti-apartheid movement in South Africa. According to Walshe, only one of his previously published books has "gained the distinc­tion of being banned in South Africa." 
Walshe's concern and com­passion for the evils of apar­theid, however, emerged long before he began research on his first book in the early 1960s. South Africa is Walshe's homeland. He was born into a devout Roman 
Bill Watterson 

lntANi!~ttlnnllv enough, In addition to the "New TV Series" categories, Roseanne Barr and her 
hit show "Roseanne" have also been nominated for People's Choice Awards in the more competitive categories of Favorite TV Comedy Series and Favorite Female TV Performer. 
"Murphy Brown" and·"The Wonder Years." 
A second interesting nomination occurs in the Fa­vorite Male TV Performer category in which Tom Sel­leek, who no longer stars in a TV series, competes against Michael J. Fox and Bill Cosby. This nomination may simply be due to Selleck's recent surge in movie popularity. 
"Knots Landing" battles "L.A. Law" and "Murder, She Wrote" for Favorite Dra­matic TV Series, while "China Beach" confronts "Heartbeat" and "In the Heat of the Night" for Favor-and "Star Trek." The candi­

ite New TV Drama. In the dates for All-time Favorite 
female categories, Roseanne Movie are "E.T.," "Gone 
Barr, Phylicia Rashad and With The Wind," and "The 
Cybill Shepherd fight for the Sound of Music." title of Favorite Female TV "The People's Choice Performer, and Roseanne Awards" always provides an Barr (again), Candice Ber-evening of quality entertain-gen, and Dana Delaney com-ment filled with all the glitter pete for Favorite Female and glitz that is Hollywood. Performer in a New TV Being nominated for these Series. awards is an honor itself; 
The two special All-time however, the feeling of taking categories will provide some the glass award home must interesting competition in this be a feeling of accomplish-annual gala. Competing for ment like no other. Remem­the prestige of All-time Fa-her, though, that it's not whe­vorite TV Series are "The ther you win or lose, it's how Cosby Show," "M*A*S*H," you play your part. 
Professor 
·Profile Peter Walshe 
Catholic family who accepted 
segregation as commonplace. 
W alshe then attended high 
school in a white-dominated 
area of Rhodesia, which is 
now the independent country 
of Zimbabwe. 
Walshe's racial awareness did not begin to grow until he left Africa and went to col­lege in Oxford, England. Walshe elaborates, "Attend­ing Oxford was my first op­portunity to view South Africa from the outside. It was a chance to breathe a different air, and I became increas­ingly critical of racism and segregation." 
Walshe's first career move boldly affirmed his initial stirrings of racial awareness. He ;moved to Lesotho, a small country surrounded by South Africa, and taught at a predominantly black univer­sity. Walshe reveals his cul­ture shock. "Teaching as a young lecturer at the Univer­sity of Lesotho was a profound experience. About one-fourth of my students were young black exiles from South Africa. Many were being pursued by the South African police for anti­apartheid demonstrations." 
Coming from a background of racial intolerance, Walshe suddenly had to confront the harsh consequences of ugly prejudices. Although W alshe was the teacher, he learned much from his students. He explains, "I was taught by 
my students what it was like 
being black in a predominantly white society. 
I gradually began to under­stand the deep injustices in 
South Africa." 
It was during his experi­ence at the University of Lesotho that W alshe realized his goals. He decided to teach the underprivleged and to focus his research on black protestors and anti-apartheid movements in South Africa. These noble goals took W alshe back to Oxford in the 1960s where he researched the rise of African nationalism in South Africa. He studied the African National Congress, which protested apartheid until the group was banned in 1960 by the government. 
Walshe's current study grant will allow him to study how many churches in South Africa have become increas­ingly involved in anti­apartheid measures. Walshe plans to focus his research on "the emergence of a prop­hetic Christianity that turns activist and gets involved in the liberation struggle. I want to study the suffering Church." 
Due to the heavy oppres­sion, Walshe said that it re­quires a great deal of courage to continue working in banned protest organizations. When, if ever, will the anti-apartheid movement be successful? He comments further, "I believe that the eventual outcome of this struggle will be freedom for black South Africans. Un­less the West supports anti­apartheid movements with tough international sanctions, however, there will be conti~­ued repression and a gradual escalation of a bloody civil war." 

Monday, February 27, 1989 The Observer page 9 
-
the first half, so it wasn't a big

Oliver Landry contemplating future
change," said Fredrick. "They continued from page 16 weren't doing anything differ­
The key to Oliver's perfor­mance, according to Cremins, was a minor halftime adjust­ment in the team's defense. 
"We took Oliver and stuck him on Fredrick," said Cremins. "We just played the other guys as straightup as we possibly could." 
Fredrick has become the player the Irish turn to in key offensive situations, witness the game-winning shot against LaSalle. 
When Georgia Tech made a charge late in the first half Sat­urday, Fredrick's three-point basket with 1:03 left gave the Irish a double-digit lead at halftime and put the Jackets' momentum on hold. 
In the second half, however, the junior from Cincinnati shot just 1-of-5 and could not deliver when Notre Dame fell behind, and Tech had no trouble getting ahead and taking the Irish right out of the game. 
"I tried to stop Fredrick from getting the uncontested shots, or penetrating," said Oliver. "He's a great player. I think defense was the key for us." 
"He <Oliver) was on me the ent except the first half, he would let me get the ball, and then he was denying me more in the second half. 
"It wasn't that big a factor. I still got my shots... I just missed them." 
Oliver wasn't missing much of anything in the second half. His dunk after a Karl Brown steal gave Tech its first lead. Then, when Notre Dame fouled in the game's waning mo­ments, Oliver was almost al­ways the man on the line. 
He made 12 consecutive free throws in the final 91 seconds of the game. Add that to a 5-of-7 shooting performance from the field in the second half, and Oliver had 26 points, his second-highest total of the season. 
"One thing Coach empha­sizes is that after we get a lead to try to open the offense up and make them come after us," said Oliver. "I just happened to be the one with the ball when they fouled, and fortunately I was able to get out of my free­throw shooting slump and make a few." 

Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas--Deposed Dallas Cowboys coach Tom Landry flew back to Dallas Sunday from his Austin-area hideout, where his wife said the dismissal came so fast, they haven't decided what they'll do next. 
"It's a sad thing and we really don't have any immedi­ate future plans and I am not sure Tom will stay on with the organization or decide to leave," Alicia Landry told The Associated Press at their North Dallas home. 
Landry, 64, was not immedi­ately available to discuss his removal as head coach after 29 seasons in favor of the Univer­sity of Miami's Jimmy Johnson, who has no NFL experience but coached the Hurricanes to ana­tional title in 1987. 
While new owner Jerry Jones, an Arkansas oilman, was saying the sale "just like Christmas Day," the Landrys were left to mull their future in the fallout of a dramatic owner­ship change of one of the NFL's most stable franchises. 
The couple spent Saturday in Austin at their weekend home. Jones and team president Tex Schramm visited Landry late in the afternoon to tell him of the change: 

,Schramm said he spoke with Landry on Sunday. 
"Tom is not ready to make a decision about his future with the Cowboys or talk to the media yet," Schramm said. "He just hasn't set any time frame for it yet." 
Asked about Landry's mood, Schramm said: "I think Tom is feeling better. He knows it wasn't his doing." 
Landry's contract calls for some $800,000 this year, but Jones left the door open for the winner of more than 250 games and two Super Bowls to stay around in a yet-to-be-named capacity. 
"Tom Landry is the Cow­boys, and just like Tex (Schramm) is the Cowboys. And we'll have to address that at a later date," Jones said. "But let me tell you this, Jimmy Johnson would be the first to tell you he couldn't carry Tom's water bucket." 
He added,. "In time, Tom might be like a great big goril­la, getting what he wants from Jerry Jones. However, I would not have taken the job without Jimmy Johnson as my head co­ach." 
Johnson, who wasn't at the news conference Saturday night when H.R. "Bum" Bright said he'd sold the team to Jones for a reported $140 million, flew back to Miami. 
Schramm said Johnson, a teammate with Jones on the 1964 Arkansas Razorbacks, would have a news conference in Dallas on Tuesday. 
Johnson refused to speak at a Sunday news conference in Miami. 
While Jones will be the majority partner, there will be five minority owners, including Ed Smith of Houston, who has 27 percent under Bright's ownership. The other minority owners include Charles Wily, Sam Wily and Evan Wily, who are affiliated with U.S. cafes, owners of the Bonanza Steak­house chain, and Russell Glass. 
Jones said he is moving to Dallas and will have an office at the team's headquarters at Valley Ranch, becoming the team's first hands-on owner. 
"Tex is used to standing out front, but he's a little behind right now. But he's still going to be a very important part of the Cowboys.... I plan to be into socks and jocks. I'm going to examine each facet of the organization. The Cowboys will be my life." 
Jones' bid is subject to ap­
proval from 21 of the 28 NFL 
owners. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classilieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classilieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline lor next-day classilieds is 3 p.m. All classilieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per live characters per day. 



Classifieds 
HOUSES FOR STUDENTS NEAR N.D. ADOPTION-Caring, financially secure FORGOT YOUR VALENTINE?BUY HAPPY BIRTHDAY BETH!!! Love, A & 68:HI889-277 ·3097. couple of Irish and Swedish ancestry HIM1-IER A DOZEN OF SELECTED J
NOTICES FOR SALE 
wish to love, cherish, and raise your new­ROSES FOR ONLY $5 AT IRISH GAR­FURNISHED ROOMS & 2 BEDRM bam child. Legal and confidential. Please DENS HOME NEAR CAMPUS.272-6306 call Linda and Craig COLLECT: 212-877-Joe,TYPING AVAILABLE 79 MIDGET EXC. COND. LOW MILAGE 3574 Ned a ride to Hartford, CT area. Leave You have been the BBE since Aug. 27 287-4082 
294-5699 ROOMMATE TO SHARE 2 BDRM APT. share expenses. Ask for Tom. x3366 Love, Kelley GRAD. STUDENT LOOKING FOR March 4. Return March 11112 Willing to and I love You! Happy 6 months MAM. 
Ride needed to Ba!M:JC area over Easter NICE AREA CLOSE TO NO. START 
Gemeinhardt Flute M2; Emerson Linear Typln{I'Wordprocesslng 
Break Prefer leaving earl)l'tetuming late
Tracking Auto Turntable CDT1 00; Joe

MAY 1. CAll MARIA 239-5859. Mary Kay Gaido Happy Random
Call Rob x11592062 Birthday, again NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP
237-1949 
F T·SHIRTS T-SHIRTS T-s'HIRTS Microwave & Cabinet-litton II Genera­
PLEASE, I desperately need a ride to 
SENIOR FORMAL 1989 The rush is PERFECT FOR SPRING BREAK!!! EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CAll tion, 2 memories. probe, rack cookbook. 
Central PA for Break. Will share toll and 
on!!!!!! Need a Date, Get One! Got a Date, MON,TUES,WED AT DINNING HALLS

WANTED 
gas$$$. call Guy at x3883.

MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
Like new-$200. Large cabinet-Excellent 

Good! Only 15 dys 'til BID SALES condition. $100. Phone 234-4263 after NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for 
ATTENTION UCAM MEMBERS! Yes, COUNSELORS-Boys camp in Berkshire HAPPY BIRTHDAY SHANNON
12 noon CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash SENIOR FORMAL 1989!!! Need a Date,
we are finally going to have a meeting Mts., West. Mass. Good Sal. ,room & ROACH!! From All Saints to NO .. Here's
and a short movie-SO GET EX­CITED! The meeting will be at 8pm In or Credit available' PANDORA'S BOOK MIAMI!! For Sale;round trip; South Bend­Get One! Got a Date. Good! The Rush
bd,travel allowance. beautiful modern to the future! 
808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Miami;31.l-3f12;call Susan 272-is On Only 15 days til Bid Sales!! !I!!!!!! II! 
facility,must love children & be able to 
the lewis Hall party room on Monday,teach one of the following: Tennis, CONGRATULATIONSAve.(walking distance from campus) ph. 
0389.Must Sell. 233-2342 Nancy, Debbie. Deb. & everyone who
Feb. 27. All members please come and W.S.I..Sailing bring guests, friends, strangers, MIKE NOONE 
visited me in the infirmary--Thanks so
Waterski,Basebaii,Basketbaii,Soccer anyone, just come!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! KEENAN'S FOUR TIME CHAMPION 
MARCHANT RESUMES Cover letters, much for being there. Love, Kelly
LaCrosse,Wood,A&C,Rocketry. Photog­life updat1ng free consultations appoint­

TICKETS

raphy,Archery,Pioneering, 
RIDE NEEDED! To ROCHESTER, Buf­Ropes,Piano,Drama.Call or write: Camp
ment only (219) 287-7343 Hello Ag!l!!
falo, Syracuse March 2, or to Pittsburgh 
Hey, to whom it may concern: AVOID THE RUSH:Winadu,5 Glen La.,Mamaroneck, NY 
March 2 or 3. Pay$$. Call Mary 284-5128 10543. (914)381-5983
Nn I would love to say it in person. but I HATE DALLAS EARLY!
4 Louisville GA's for sale.272-6306 
or 5117. 


don't always see Ag every day.
···························· ............... . 

······· ......... ················-··················· HI AGI!I Due to technical difficuijies
LOUISVILLE student tickeH've got it, I HELLO AG!!! and a last minute change in plans,
NO law school students to be reps I NEED A RIDE TO PHILADELPHIA OR 
know you want it. Ron x4842.

for Kaplan-SMH Bar Review courses. NEW YORK FOR SPRING BREAK­this week has been designated

LOST/FOUND 
Earn free bar review course plus SS's. WILL SHARE EXPENSES-FLEXIBLE Z BALLS WEEKNEED LOUISVILLE TIX CJ i 382Call 272-4135. Ask for Sue. 
DATES. CALL ROSI AT X3567. 

So give him a call at x341 0 LOST: SOMEONE TOOK MY RED CW NEED RIDE TO & FROM COL., OH FOR and tell him what you think
NEED 3 l'VILLE GA'S x1 063COUNSELORS-Girls camp in Maine. 

SPRING BREAK BUS TO MN CALL
SKI JACKET FROM THE CCE SATUR­BREAK.WILL SHARE EXPENSES. of his big ... ears.
Good sal,room & bd.,travel allowance, DIANE X2985 OR KAROL 612-452-4679 CALL KATHY x37t 4 DAY NIGHT. PLEASE RETURN IT beautiful modern facility,must love
SINCE ITS MY ONLY JACKET AND I ····················· Chris Donnelly:
children and be able to teach one of the Experienced guitarisWocalist seeks to
CANT AFFORD A NEW ONE I'LL AS­Let the games begin!
following:Tennis, W.S.T.,Sailing 
join classic rock band. Call Glenn at HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY TAMMY MAR­

PERSONALS

SUME IT WAS AN HONEST MISTAKE. John, Mark, Matt and a cast of
Waterski,Softbaii,Basketball, Soc­
X3083. cer,laCrosse,A&C,Photography, Horse­
I'LL EVEN GIVE A REWARD FOR THE TINEZ HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY TAMMY thousands 
JACKET OR INFORMATION WHERE IT ····················· MARTINEZ Love, Tracy, Bridget, Ross back,Dance,Piano,Drama,Ropes Camp I need ride to Minneapolis-St. Paul for and John HEIDI!!!
IS! PLEASE CALL SEAN-4784. CW--"And me so undeserving"
Craft,Gymnastics.Call or write:Camp break. I can leave after noon on Fri. Lance was a bit surprsed at your hip Vega, Box 1771 Duxbury, Mass. 02332 movements!II
March 3. Brad 3170 DESPERATELY SEEKING RIDE toLOST-BLACK CUMMERBUND AT TAl­(617)934-6536
MILITARY FORMAL!! call BRET x1389 LAW SCHOOL: Start your Bar Review Columbu s, OH (or ANYWHERE near 
........................................... HI-HO-the BO the FARMER takes a 
early. Kaplan-SMH reviews fo many TOGETHER NOT APARTheid !-shirts there) for spr. break. Is there somebodyRIDE NEEDED EAST ON 1-80 TOWARD Will be on sale In the dining halls WIFE 
A little boy Is devastated. We lost our states available here In South Bend. out there who doesn't mind having some small white dog with Ohio tags. With­NYC, PREFERABLY TO AREA OF Mon., Tues. LUNCH & Wed. DINNER body else pay for the gas? call Mike at She was a Bl· and divorced him in a
Transfer back home for summer. Dis­WILKES-BARRE PA OR ELSE ANYONE 

out a special diet, she'll become very counts for Kaplan LSAT alumni. 2098, PLEASE year 
HEADING TOWARDS PHILADELPHIA 
BUT still he took the wife. OR SYRACUS&BINGHAMTON NYIll. Sizeable reward. Please call 234-Reserve before March 2 Call 272-4135. 
Tim and Russ need a ride ·················································· 
1814. Ask for Sue.
AREA PLEASE CALL NEIL AT X4051 Monica---Do you want to walk???
to anywhere in Florida. 

THE COUNTDOWN lSI Will share expenses. 277-1180
LOST 2 KEYS on a pink keychain at SUMMER JOBS FIVE DAYS LEFT Tl DAYTONA! Girls Steve B.--· remember Stude's???
HELP I need a ride to and from Atlanta
Morrissey SYR. If found please call ALLLANDWATER SPORTS of PE unite In anticipation o spending You look beautiful babe!!! 
or Birmingham for break will share gas
X2853. PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS the week with that stud Mike York! (or so YOU thought!!!!!!)Chris# 1425 Need ride to MPL&St. PAUL for Spring Kitty and Rita will get 
some..... . Break. Please call 284-4430. SUN! Mickey, SHAKE ~ up BIG BOY! 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR 

LOST: Gold Chain of much sentimental LAKE 
-. 
value somewhere between Siegfried and PLACID. CAll 1-800-343-8373 ~~:Y.~..~?.~.~~--~-~~-~.~~~ ...............................
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT 
love FISHERIES. Earn $600¢-Week in can­O'Shag. $Reward$ x-4802 I just saw my FIRST P.!l!l! 
your sexy friend Mary nery, $8,000-12,000¢ for two months on 
RIDE needed to WASHINGTON D.C. on He is not a Iarmer. fishing vessel. Over 8,000 openings. NoLOST!!! one pair of black earmuffs on OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo. 
Spring Break. Please call Peggy at HEH KRAKER KRUMBSI How's your He's a LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT!!!!! experience necessary. MALE OR2121 somewhere in the vicinity of LaFor­Summer,Yr.round.AII Countrles,AII 
x1264. new major going? Have you detected ... He's a farmer. FEMALE For 52-page employment book­tune comp. lab. Please call Dawn at 1292 fields. Free Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52· 
any new odors lately?let, send $6.95 to M&L Research. Boxif found IN04, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. 
I feel the NEED!!!!

Dear Patty-HAPPY BIRTHDAY!Now you 84008, Seattle, WA 98124. 30 day, un­
The naed to FEED!III FOUND: Gold-rimmed glasses In hard hlag 
too can say"l'm too old for this!" Love KU your pal Maryconditional, 100% money back guarantee 
black plastic case. Found In nm. 204 ·························································-I HAVE A DATE! Nleuwland Science Hall on 211. Call SUMMER JOBS GOING TO PITTSBURGH? HELP! TWO To where??
CAMPUS PAINTERS INC. NOW HIRING need ride to D.C. area for break will pay. 
NOVICE AND EXPERIENCED RIDES NEEDED Will PAY EXP. CALL TIVOLI's Call x1919x3781 and see again! AllLANDWATER SPORTS PAINTERS FOR SUMMER HOUSE LIZ AT 4387PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS That's the DIGGEST BIG I've ever
PAINTING IN CHICAGO NORTH SUB­
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS seen!!!!!

URBS. CALL TO ARRANGE AN INTER­JUNIORS DERS PEOPLE CAU YOU. NO EXPE­CAU 1-800-343-8373 VIEW 312-251-0151. MAILING Did you miss the JPW T-Shirts? He already looks scurvy. RIENCE NECESSARY. CAll ADDRESS IS: 2901 CENTRAL STREET­Call Mike (x1185) or James (x3265) $3501lAY PROCESSING PHONE OR­NEAR LAKE PLACID 

FOR RENT 
(REFUNDABLE) 315-733-6063 EXTEN· -EVANSTON, ll 60201 to order yours today--only $6 to Please tell me ... SION P·2382-H. ADOPTION benefit St. Hedwig's! WHERE is that THING going????? FOUR FLAGS FARM BED 'N BREAK­Loving ,secure married couple unable to 
Counselors for MR camp, 20 miles NW 
Orlando June 3-Aug. 12, Camp Thunder­Alison,FAST JUST 20 MINS. FROM ND.IDEAL CRUISESHIP JOBS conceive seek to adopt. Can pay le­
bird 909 East Welch Road, Apopka, Fl Kim Conrard -you are the For me. the beginning of the end. NOW FOR All UPCOMING EVENTS. CAll LINDA 9-5 WEEKDAYS 1-612-Susan, 7031276-9751 Completely con­32712 ( 407)889-8088 lust of my lila. I Rome the For you, the end of the beginning. 
FOR All ND ACTIVITIES. RESERVE $300 TO $900 WEEKLY gal,medical exp. Pis call collect Chris & 
streets for your passionate $5 DOZENS $5 DOZENS $5 DOZENS embrace. Bring soap from Spain! 8"Eo··:N··aFieA'i<F.4s:Y:.~eG'isr-Fiv:·2'19. Desperate-need ride to Central PA, Har­BUY A DOZEN OF SELECTED ROSES -Kurt VInce Martinez 291-7153. risburg area on 3l.l or 314 # 3348 Rob ST. JUDE: PRAY FOR US. 
616-471-5711. 456-0884 EXT. C-4080 fidential. 
FOR $5 AT IRISH GARDENS! 


page 10 The Observer 
-
Irish break three-game slide 
By FRANK PASTOR Sports Writer 
Sophomore forward Krissi Davis scored a career-high 22 points on 11 of 12 shooting to lead the Notre Dame women's basketball team to a 69-56 vic­tory over Midwestern Col­legiate Conference rival Xavier Saturday night at Schmidt Fieldhouse in Cincin­nati. 
The win erased a three-game losing streak for the Irish, who fell to Dayton 67-55 Thursday night in a game marred by 32 fouls. 
Mter falling behind early in Saturday's game, the Irish relied on their half-court trap, combined with effective out­side shooting and rebounding in coming back to tie the game 33-33 at halftime. 
Kim Blanton staked Xavier to a three-point lead immedi­ately following the intermis­sion before Notre Dame went on a 25-6 run over the next 11 minutes, including an 11-0 Irish run. Karen Robinson's eight steals sparked the scoring out­burst. 
"Our press was very effec­tive," said Irish coach Muffet McGraw. "It was 42-40 at one point, and then we forced a few turnovers in a row. We got them 11-0 and that was it. They never came any closer." 
Notre Dame's starting back­court turned in a pair of out­standing performances against Xavier. Sara Liebscher scored 14 points and pulled down seven rebounds to tie Davis for the team lead. Point guard Karen Robinson also scored in double figures, pouring in 10 points for the Irish. 
But the key to the game was Notre Dame's bench, particu­larly frontcourt players Annie Schwartz and Diondra Toney. Schwartz scored 14 points on six of 10 shooting from the field, while Toney added six points of her own in a supporting role. 
The Irish (10-2 in the MCC, 16-9 overall) proved their mettle in bouncing back from a three-game losing skid, during which they lost to Loyola, Tennessee and Dayton. Notre Dame plays Loyola Thursday night at 7: 30 in a rematch of last week's 108-77 Loyola win. 
Dayton defeated Notre Dame Thursday despite hitting only 39 percent of its shots, com­pared to 41 percent for the Irish. However, the Flyers out­shot Notre Dame 21-7 from the charity stripe. 
"(The foul shooting) was a big factor in Thursday's game," said McGraw. "Dayton has a good inside game, and when you take the ball inside as much as they did, you'll draw a lot more fouls." 
Tobette Pleasant scored 16 points to pace a Dayton squad that placed four players in double figures. Kaihra Good­man and Cindy Fredricks poured in 14 points apiece, while Lisa Green added 10 of her own. 
Liebscher led all Notre Dame scorers with 14 points before fouling out in the second half. Davis also fouled out for the Irish. 
"We just shot so poorly," said McGraw. "That was a real problem for us. It hurt our defense because we were in foul trouble all game." 
Notre Dame's victory over Xavier eliminated the Lady Musketeers from contention for the MCC tournament. Dayton and Detroit remain in the running for the fourth and final playoff spot. 
Glasson captures Doral Open 
Associated Press 
MIAMI--Billy Glasson be­came a one-stroke winner of the Doral Open when Mark Cal­cavecchia completed a back­nine collapse with an 18th hole double bogey disaster Sunday. 
"The win was great, but it was tarnished by the way I played," said Glasson, who needed only a hard-won round of par-72 to fend off the falter­ing Calcavecchia. 
Glasson didn't exactly back into it, having held the second and third round leads. But the softly-drawling, poker-faced Glasson knew it was far from a thing of beauty. 
"It was like we were trying to see who could play the worst," Glasson said of his back-nine duel with Calcavec­chia, a two-time winner already this season. 
And Calcavecchia had the edge there. 
From a tie for the lead at the turn, he played the back nine in 41. 
Playing in the final twosome with Glasson, Calcavecchia trailed by one and apparently needed a birdie to force a playoff when they went to the intimidating 18th hole of Doral's Blue Monster course. 

"When he got it to the back of the green, I figured he could 
-two-putt easy for par, so I've got to make birdie," Calcavec­chia said. "It kind of relaxed me. I knew I had to go right at it." 
But his 6-iron approach, he said, was caught up in the wind, which took it into the lake. 

Margaret Nowlin and the Notre Dame women's basketball team broke a three-game losing streak with a victory over Xavier Saturday night. 
... 
-
... ... N9
-
"' 
-"' ..."' ...... 
... 
... 
-
.....
-
...
"' 
...
... 
..
-
...
..
.. 
... 
-
..."' 
...
"'
-
-
..
-
-....... 
... 
--.. -"' 
... 
~e~~~~~l~;~sse~~~~~~~;ssss~~~~~l~;~aseslrllllllllttlllllllttttlllllllt; 

...­
gets larger with the liT MBA. 
Technology is at the heart of America's competitiveness. This helps explain why many liT educated managers reach top management positions fast. 
Implement innovation with the liT Full-Time MBA. liT offers uniquely focused specializations in: Operations 3;11d Technology . Management, Infonnation Management, Finance, Marketmg and Organization Management. 
Optional salaried summer internships are available with many of Chicago's leading corporations. Financial aid is available for qualified students. liT offers part-time MBA program as well. 
Tomorrow Starts Today at liT. OPEN HOUSE LOCATIONS: HOURS lOam to Noon March 11th (Sat.) March 18th (Sat.) 
Main Campus, Room 113, Stuart Bldg. liT West 10 W. 31st. Street 600 S. Lambert Road Chicago, IL Glen Ellyn, IL ltR 
Call 312-853-5848 today for complete infonnation. LLU 
ILLINOIS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 
Sehoul ut Hus.ness Adm•mstrat•on, Ch1cago. IL60616 


Monday, February 27, 1989 The Observer page 11 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's Bookstore Basketball registration and signups are Wednesday, March 14, in Room 002 in the basement of LaFortune from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. There is a $5 registration fee. Referees are needed and will be paid $5 per game. Scorekeepers are also needed: Any questions should be directed to Nancy at x3487 or Juhe at x2667. -The Observer 
Anyone interested in trying out for the t~e 1989-90 Cheerleading Team must come to the gymnastics room of the Rockne Memorial if heshe has not yet applied. Participants should come ready to practice at 4 p.m. with a copy of their insurance and $3. Today is the last day to apply. Call Don at x1801 of conflicts arise. -The Observer 
Morrissey Manor advanced to the finals of men's Interhall basketball with Sunday's 72-50 win over Alumni. Tom Veltz, Kevin Keyes and Derrick Johnson led the way for Morrissey, which will face Fisher in the Joyce ACC Pit Tuesday night. Further details will appear in Tues­day's issue of The Observer. -The Observer 
The ND Men's Volleyball Club hosts Aquinas College in a Northern Conference match tonight at the Joyce ACC Pit. Admission is free. -The Observer 
The Off-Campus lacrosse team will practice Tuesday at 10 p.m. at the Loftus Center. Any questions should be directed to Bill at 287-5758. -The Observer 
The ND Rugby Club will hold a meeting Tuesday at 5 p.m. in the Haggar Auditorium for anyone interested in playing this spring. No skill or playing experience is necessary. Any quesions should be directed to Jim at x1776. 
-The Observer 


HAPPY 21st 
Brian McCarthy! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Amy, Danny, Laura, & Chellie 





I KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCAnONAL CENTER LTD. 
~F!Mjj~ ...SiottltllrfCf!oa~ P~Pt? 

KAPLAN OFFERS YOU CONTINUOUS NCLEX REVIEW RIGHT HERE IN SOUTH BEND! OURS IS NOT A WEEK-END CRAM COURSE. YOU CAN THOROUGHLY PREPARE TO DO YOUR BEST. DON'T TAKE A CHANCE ON YOUR FUTURE. CALL FOR MORE INFORMATION OR STOP BY FOR A FREE LESSON. 
**** 
KAPLAN TEST PREP CENTER 1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 
219/272-4135 
NCLEX-RN CGFNS 
Ucensure Preparation 

Irish tennis talk of the town 
Bayliss has netters clicking in second 
By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer 
Who's responsible for the men's tennis team's shocking 11-4 record? 
Is it coach Bob Bayliss who is trying to imitate Lou Holtz, and turn a program around in three years? Could it be No. 1 Dave DiLucia, the Chris Jack­son of collegiate tennis? Doesn't he know he is only a freshman? Or is the culprit Brian Kalbas, who at times seems like he would rather fight in the Bengal Bouts than swing a tennis racket? 
Whatever the reason, the Irish made believers out of three teams this weekend at the Eck Pavilion. For the doubting Thomases who follow the men's tennis team, rest as­sured. Notre Dame's record is no fluke. 
The Irish converted Colorado, Southern Illinois, and Iowa to this belief. Moreover, the Irish clinched two out of their three victories in the singles competition. 
On Friday, Notre Dame cor­ralled the Buffalos of Colorado with a 5-1 victory. The doubles contests were not played be­cause they could not change the outcome of the match. 
In the third meeting between the two schools, the Irish tacked on their first-ever vic­tory. This year's victory was extraordinary considering in 1988 Colorado won the match in the singles, and this year, the Irish returned the favor. 
"Notre Dame is 50 percent better than they were last year," said Colorado coach Ron Smarr. "They believe in themselves more, and are a lot tougher in the crunch." 
No.1 Dave DiLucia snared a straight-set victory, 7-6 (7-3), 6­4 against James Johnson, ranked 6oth in the nation. The No. 62 Irish player has posted three other wins against na-. tionally ranked foes, all ahead 


David Dllucla of him. The 5-11 freshman has knocked off the No. 29 , No. 49, and No. 60 players in collegiate tennis. The Colorado contest was the stage for senior Dave Reiter's reemergence in singles play. Reiter dusted off the cobwebs of his singles' game to earn his first singles victory since April 23, 1988. Reiter who is one-half of the No.3 team came up on the winning end against No. 6 Kevin Johnson in two sets, 6-3, 6-3. Ryan Wenger snapped a three match losing stretch at the No. 5 position by knocking off Jeff Kochevar, 7-6, 6-2 in a baseline battle. Against Southern Illinois, the Irish pounced on the Salukis early to catapult them to a 6-3 win. The Irish, on Saturday morning, captured four singles victories and two of three doubles to ink their tenth win of the year. "After we got over the hump to beat Colarado, we might have gotten a little overconfi­dent," said Bayliss. "With David playing so well, there is a little security.'' In the third match of the weekend, the leg-weary Irish mustered a 6-3 win over the Iowa Hawkeyes. Notre Dame, winless over Iowa since 1987, clinched the victory in the singles with a two-set victory by Paul Odland over David Noavak, 6-4, 7-5. The No. 5 player snapped a seven-match 
MERRILL LYNCH CAPITAL MARKETS CHICAGO REGIONAL OFFICE 
Is currently accepting applications for the position of 
FINANCIAL ANALYST 
within the Midwest Corporate Finance Department. 
In selecting applicants for the position of Financial Analyst, Merrill Lynch looks for a record of outstanding academic achievement, extracurricular involvement and work experience, and demonstrated leadership qualities. Analysts must be exceptionally articulate, able to write effectively, and able to work well with others. Although no particular academic majors are required, some background in accounting or statistics and familiarity with computers is helpful in indicating an ability to readily acquire the tools needed for quantitative analytic work. 
Upon completion of this two year program, Financial Analysts are generally able to enter a graduate business or law-degree program at a leading university. Many return to Merrill Lynch after completing their advanced degrees to build their professional careers in investment banking. 
Becoming a Candidate: If you are interested in being considered for this program, send resume to: 
Jenny Grantham Merrill Lynch Capital Markets 5500 Sears Tower Chicago. IL 60606 
Please respond before March 10, 1989. 
' 
·­


year as coach 
losing streak while sealing the Irish win. 
"The win was pivotal to get some momentum," said Od­land. "It will bolster my confi­dence, and it is an all-around· good feeling to help the team win." 
Iowa head coach Steve Haughton atributted his team's loss to a couple of reasons. 
"It helps the the whole team to have DiLucia ," said Haughton. "Notre Dame has gained more confidence, and won a high percentage of key points." 
One of the major forces be­hind the recent success of the Irish has been the play of No. ­3 Walter Dolhare. Dolhare, a native of Buenos Aires, has been fantastico since Feb. 17. 
"Walter has been sensation­al," said Bayliss. "He had great ground strokes when he arrived, but now he is becom­ing more aggressive. He is put­ting pressure on his opponents, and learning to attack from his approach shots." 
The Iowa matchup provided the setting for DiLucia to ex­tend his winning streak to 12 matches. The last time DiLucia lost was Feb. 4 against Ohio State. 
"I took a month off from playing during Christmas, and that didn't help," said DiLucia. "But once I started playing, I got match tough. I am serving well, and everything is starting to come together." 
Notre Dame, winners of four out of its last five matches, has raised the eyebrows of many including its own coach. 
"I keep getting suprised with these guys," said Bayliss. "I am not going to underestimate these guys again. This weekend, we didn't dazzle anyone but we are learning to win ugly. We believe we can beat people nQw and we're toughing the matches out." 
+
American 

Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 

-
page 12 The Observer Monday, February 27, 1989 

Two-mile relay squad qualifies for NCAA tourney 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame played host to 
the Alex Wilson Invitational on 
Saturday at the Meyo Track 
and Field, and for the two-mile 
relay squad, it was a last 
chance at achieving a goal that 
had been, at least for one mem­
ber, very elusive. 
It was the last chance for 
senior Dave Warth, who had 
just missed qualifying for the 
NCAA's both of the last two 
seasons. This season, however, 
Warth and the entire two-mile 
relay squad were not to be 
denied. 
In grand fashion, Notre 
Dame placed third in the two­
mile relay finals with a time of 
7:24.70, right behind Villanova 
and Georgetown. 
"For me it's like the four 
years have finally paid off," 
said Warth, who runs the final 

Tech 
continued from page 16 
lead through chronic turnover problems early in the half. With the score tied at 52, Elmer Ben­nett lost the ball. Tech's Karl Brown, who led all players with 10 assists, got the steal and dished it to Brian Oliver, who stuffed it in to give the Jackets their first lead of the game. 
Keith Robinson's 14-footer retied the contest, but Brown hit a jumper to put Tech back in front. Scott followed with a three-pointer for a 59-54 advan­tage. At that point it was tough to tell who was more excited-­Cremins or the lookalikes in the 
stands. 
Scott finished with a game­high 34 points, and Notre Dame never recovered after his shot put Tech up by five. 
"He (Scott) brought them back," said Irish guard Joe Fredrick, whose 16 points led 
Notre Dame. "We knew he was a good three-point shooter, but 
in transition he got open. We
didn't pick him up, and he made the shot." In the meantime, Ham­monds, Oliver and Johnny McNeil began controlling the 
game inside. Hammonds pulled down nine rebounds, while Oliver and McNeil fol­
lowed with seven. Ironically, Hammonds did not score in the 
final15 minutes, but Scott's 34
points· and Oliver's 26 helped Tech pull away. 
"We just didn't box out in the 
second baH," said Irish for­
ward LaPhonsobench whore-
came off the Ellis,and 
corded a game-high 11
rebounds. "It seemed like they wanted it more than we did." 
Notre Dame fell victim to the same problems that hurt Tech in the early going, shooting just 

leg of the race. "It feels great 
after all these years finally to 
get to go." 
In his sophomore year, Warth missed qualifying for the NCAA's in the 1000 meters by 0.7 seconds. A year later, Warth missed qualifying in the half-mile by 0.2 seconds. 
"I was beginning to wonder what it took to get to NCAA's," said Warth. "But going into the meet, we knew we were going to qualify. We had a completely different attitude going in, and that atmosphere made the dif­ference." 
The squad was aided by the strength of its competition as well, to which coach Joe Piane went to great lengths to invite the best two-mile relay teams in the country. Piane's en­deavors were made good with five NCAA gualifying times by 
42 percent from the field in the final 20 minutes. 
"We just played tentative and didn't take it back to them," said Phelps. "When you have a breakdown, that's when teams can make a run at you. We just didn't get the thing going again." 
The Irish could have entered the half leading by much more than 11, considering how well the Irish looked and how pitiful Tech was in those first 20 minutes. But Notre Dame com­mitted 14 fouls in that half, and Tech shot 14-of-17 from the line. Those free throws helped the Jackets remain in the game and actually have a little momen­tum at halftime. 
"It was an excellent basket­ball game," said Cremins. "Notre Dame's young. They're an excellent team. But you've got to remember they are a young team." 
Villanova, Georgetown, Notre Dame, Loyola (Ill.), and Rut­gers. 
"Getting that group to qualify for NCAA's is great," said Piane. "I don't think.many people realize how great of a time that really is. They ran very well and they deserved to go on their performance." 
Now the Irish squad is in the position to compete for the na­tional title in the two-mile event. Warth feels the team's chances are excellent. 
"I think we're as good as any relay team in the country," said Warth. "We can beat any team." 
On the other end of the spec­trum is freshman Brian Pep­pard, a native of Dublin, Ireland, who runs the first leg of the race. 
"I'm excited to the moon to 
go," said Peppard. "When I first came over to South Bend in August the coaches told me that the NCAA's was our aim. Achieving it this year has made it particularly fantastic. 
"Hopefully when we go to In­dianapolis (site of NCAA Championships) we will run a little better and we'll be able to win." 
Although no other atheletes qualified for the NCAA's, several qualified for the up­coming IC4A's on March 3-4. 
Fifth-year senior and All­
American Dan Garrett, previ­ously out with injuries, qualified for the IC4A's in the 3000 meters with a time of 
8:11.26. 

Sophomore Ryan Cahill qualified in the same event by running the event in 8: 13.86. 
Freshman Sean Schneider, after just missing qualifying for the mile by 0.06 seconds last weekend, qualified for the IC4A's by running the mile in 4:12.40. 
Sophomore Kevin Whelan qualified by running the 800 meters in 1:53.57. 
Freshman Raghib "Rocket" Ismail, who had previously qualified to the IC4A's, nar­rowly missed the 6.23-second qualifying mark for the NCAA's in the 55 meters by running the event in 6.27 seconds. 
"It seems that things fell into place on Saturday," said Piane. "We had a good year, and considering what we went through (with injuries and sick­ness), I have to be happy the way we had so many qualifiers to IC4A's." 
Pasquerilla East defeats Lewis; teams must play again tonight 
By KEN TYSIAC Sports Writer 

In women's Interhall basket­ball action on Sunday, Pasquerilla East got a 25-23 victory over the Lewis Rebels to force another game between the two teams tonight. 
The winner of tonight's con­test between Lewis and P.E. will play Breen-Phillips, which won a forfeit victory over Badin Sunday, on Tuesday night at 6:30 p.m. in the Joyce ACC Pit. 
P.E. 
trailed 16-12 after three quarters against Lewis, but its physical inside play helped to dominate the fourth quarter. 

P.E. 
took its first lead of the 


~2 lSt 
lDJiPty:;' liT) Of 
:D .L\... Jl".L/./1. 
lft1r IJ/
.L~LJ~ •
!. 
n A 'e a(,{ t/i.fn{,.
~ -YVj ~~ "' f\.... 
ld 



you're specia{! 
_ 
¥~,. 
. .. ·-~ Dad, Mom, Scott, Malik 
/ 

game on a breakaway layup by Colleen O'Connor, and then Molly Mahoney cashed in a three-point play for a 25-20 P.E. lead. 
Lewis cut it to 25-23 on a Sue Lippa free throw with 10 seconds to play, but could come no closer as P.E. ran out the clock. Mahoney led Pasquerilla East with 11 points, while Ellen Mouch had 7 for the Rebels. 
P .E. coaches Ray Flannery and Joe Hippler attributed their victory to increased defensive intensity and good rebounding in the second half. 
The winner of tonight's rematch between P .E. and Lewis will have to beat B.P. twice in order to win the cham­pionship, because both P .E. and Lewis have already lost once in this double-elimination tournament. B.P. remains one victory away from the Inter-hall championship, however, by virtue of its unbeaten record in the playoffs. 

HEY'· MARcH 1st is
h d
t e 1ast ay t0 regl•ster for cLuB 

MEMBERSHIPS
h•
t Is year 
1::;;::::::::.ii.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~~~~~~~~~~~~!i~~~~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii

NOTRE DAME FACULTY 
Have your son or daughter live in South Bend's newest, most exciting condominium development while at Notre Dame. 
* 
1 mile from Notre Dame 

* 
New Construction *Tax Abatement *Security Systems ** A profitable investment** 



call TARIPP DEVELOPMENT CORP. Contact Christopher Matteo (219) 232-8256 
Monday, February 27, _1989 The Observer page 13 




Senior wrestlers go in style with convincing win 
-
By GREG SCHECKENBACH Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team demolished a much im­proved Marquette squad 44-2 at the Joyce ACC in the last dual meet of the year Saturday. 
In a sense, the match was the end of the beginning for the Irish. It was the last match for seniors Jerry Durso and Chris Geneser, who four years ago put Irish wrestling on the map. They will end their careers as the top two wrestlers in Notre Dame history. 
Senior Pat Boyd may wrestle again next year if his injury hardship is approved. Other­wise, this is the finale for the catalysts of Notre Dame wres­tling. 
Co-captain Durso won his final regular season match very uneventfully with a forfeit at 134 pounds. This victory im­proves his career win record to 125-26-1. 
Geneser, who is also a cap­tain, won easily by technical fall in just under five minutes. That brought him to within one victory of Phil Baty who is cur­rently second on the all-time list with 118 wins. Recently, Geneser changed weight classes moving down to 167 pounds from 177 pounds in preparation for the NCAA tournament. Todd Tomazic will now wrestle at 177 pounds instead of his usual167 pounds. 
From the beginning, Notre Dame (10-3) never let Mar­quette into the match, grabbing an impressive 38-0 lead. At 118 pounds, junior Andy Raden­baugh (33-7) won by forfeit. Marcus Gowens had a more dif­ficult match at 126 pounds, win­ning by a close 4-2 score. Gowens, a freshman, has been on a tear lately, winning all his matches since the Oklahoma match on Feb. 4. 
In the 142-pound match, Boyd (19-4) won a major decision 16-2 against an overmatced op-


Check out Zenith Data Systems' battery powered 80C88 portable. Standard with a 20MI hard drive and one 3.5" floppy. MS-DOS and internal 1200 baud modem included. The ZWL-184-HR power starts at' $1997 For more information contact: 
Office of University Computing Notre Dame Computing Store Room 25 Computer I Math Building 239-7477 
......... d ...-..w­
.7'"''N1 data

--too-......1111111 ..... 
_ ....__
---L.-_,...._...,___,.. 
systems

;;;:-:.:.-..:.-...... .._........­
THE QUAUTY GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES ON" 

ponent. Todd Layton recorded his 24th victory at the 150-pound level, winning 6-3 in a slow moving match. Layton is cur­rently fourth for the Irish in total wins this season behind Radenbaugh, Durso, and Geneser. 
Sophomore Mark Gerardi (19­12-1) pinned his opponent in just 1 : 17, his tenth pin of the year. Gerardi qualified for the NCAA tournament last year as a freshman at the 158-pound level. Tomazic (19-12) won by technical fall at seven minutes in his first match at 177 pounds. 
Notre Dame's only blemish came at 190 pounds when fresh­man Tom Salvino was tied by Marquette's Jon Fiegen 5-5. 

Bengals 
continued from page 16 
over fellow freshman Colin Mullaney in the middleweight This was Salvino's first action since the beginning of the year due to a knee injury. 
In the heavyweight division, Chuck Weaver won a major decision 16-4 in what was one of his easier matches of the year. Weaver, who has been improving as of late, recorded his tenth win. 
This weekend, the Irish will travel to Des Moines, Iowa, for the Western Regionals. Last year, Notre Dame placed six wrestlers in the tournament which is a qualifying meet for the national tournament. 
The Irish ended their dual meet season with a 10-3 record, the best in Fran McCann's five­year stint. 
title contest, and freshman Mike Trainer bested sopho­more Bret Bruder with beastly lefts in pounding out a unani­mous super middleweight deci­sion. 
Freshman Mike O'Neill scored a unanimous decision over second-year law student Patrick Fay for the cruiser­weight crown, while sopho­more Sam Elston battered junior Tom King in a unani­mous decision to capture the super cruiserweight title. 
NOTES: Former Bengal Bout award winner Robert Siegfried '37 presented class­mate Father Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., with the 59th Annual Bengal Bouts Award to honor his support of boxing at Notre Dame . 
.-----CELEBRATE------, 
SPRING BREAK '89 
IN FT. LAUDERDALE AT 

10 A.M. to 6 P.M. POOLSIDE PARTIES 
LIVE D.J. EMCEEING POOLSIDE CONI'EST • WATER VOLLEYBALL TOURNAMENT • FREE T-81DRT RELAYS • TilE BELLYFLOP CONI'EST 
• CASH PRIZES • FREET-SHIRTS AND OTHER GIVEAWAYS 
7 P.M. to 8 P.M. 
NOTRE DAME PARTY *TUES. MAR. 7 
FREE SPRING BREAK '89 T.SHIRT wrrH PAm ADMISSION FORABOVE COLLEGE snJDENI'S BE'IWEEN 7 AND 8 P.M. wrrH PROPER COLLEGE LD. 
COMPETE IN CONTESTS FOR PRIZES! 
EVENINGS 
SVMME.RS ONTHE BEACH PRESENTS ••• FURY FT. IAVDERDAIES FINEST ROCK 'N ROIL BAND NIGHTLYPIAYJNG THE BEST DANCE MUSIC ••• 
.XCUP & SAVE-------------------------------------------CUP & SAVE 
NOTRE DAME PARTY *TUES. MAR. 7 
ONE FREE SOFr DRINK 
GOOD FROM 7-8 P.M. NIGHTI-Y 
IUMIT ONE PER CUSIUMERJ Summl!ffl on the Beach • 219 S. Atlantic Bh·d. • Ft. Lauderdale. FL • (3051 462-8978 (LOCATED 112 BLOCK NORTH OF lAS OlAS BLVD. ON AlAI ADMISSION POUCY: 18 YEARS OR OLDER WELCOME 

-
page 14 The Observer Monday, February 27, 1989 



Arizona downs Blue Devils 
Associated Press 

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­-Sean Elliott scored 24 points Sunday and No. 2 Arizona needed a missed free throw with one second left to beat No. 9 Duke 77-75 and set up a probable return to the top spot in the poll. 
Elliott gave the Wildcats the lead for good with a 3-pointer with 54 seconds left that broke a 70-70 tie. 
He also grabbed 10 rebounds in his matchup with fellow player of the year candidate Danny Ferry, who had 29 points and 12 rebounds. 
Anthony Cook finished with 19 for the Wildcats and Matt Muehlbach had 14. 
Christian Laettner had 12 points and 10 rebounds for Duke. 
Arizona improved to 22-3 and has won 14 of 15, while Duke, 21-5, had a seven-game winning streak ended. 
In other games Sunday, Illi­nois crushed Ohio State 94-71, Syracuse downed Kentucky 89­73, Iowa pounded Purdue 84-67 and Virginia upset North Carolina State. 
+
Anlerican 
Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 
The Observer I Michael Moran 

James Sass played a vital role in Notre Dame's win against Texas over the weekend. Theresa Kelly recaps the roadtrip beginning on the back page. 



Texas 
continued from page 16 
scored on a Jacobs double to put the Irish up 10-5. Sass drove in Jacobs for the final run of the inning. 
Catcher Ed Lund singled home the final Irish run in the eighth. 
Texas came back with four runs in the eighth, but reliever Mike Coffey ended the Texas rally and earned his second save of the season, despite facing the tying run at the plate in the ninth. 
"Texas is a perennial college baseball power," Murphy said. "They've had four national championships, their coach (Cliff Gustafson) is a legend, and they've got a great tradi­tion. This is a credit to these kids, to come in here and come out on top like this." 
The Irish used four pitchers including Coffey, with Tony Livorsi getting his first win of the season. 
The win brings more credibility to the Notre Dame program, credibility that it earned last fall by sweeping a two-game series against highly-touted Miami. 
"People were questioning the legitimacy of our wins over Miami," Murphy said, "saying they didn't play their best lineup against us--that's a joke. They pitched their number one and number two pitchers, and we beat them straight up. 
"People are looking for ex­cuses to why we beat Miami and beat Texas. It's because we can win, that's all." 
"I really can't expect us to go down to Florida and beat Miami again," Murphy said, "but then again, I know this team, and I wouldn't put anyth­ing past them." 
Student Business Board 
is now taking applications for 
General Manager 
oversee the three student-run businesses­Adworks, the Cellar, and Irish Gardens -and a $160,000 budget 
applications & job descriptions available at the Secretary's desk (2nd floor Lafortune). 
completed applications due March 3 at 5 pm. 
Not just a resume builder, it's the best business experience on campus 




ICEBERG DEBATES TOMORROW NIGHT 
Library Auditorium 9-10 P.M. 
FINAL ROUND 

STANFORD 
vs 
ZAHM 
"That U.S. Economic Aid to a Latin American country should be tied to the improvement of that country's record ofupholding the human rights ofits citizens" 
SPONSORED BY STUDENT GOVERNMEr--'T AND THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
GMAT 

Directions: For the following question, select the best answer choice provided. 
I. Only if we know human nature can we know the na­ture of the true good for human beings. And only if we know the nature of the true good for human beings can we arrive at an idea of the truly just society. Thus, if we know human nature and the na­ture. of the good for human beings, we can arrive at an idea of the truly just society. 
Which of the following points out a potential Haw in the reasoning above? 
(A) 
What one human being thinks is good might well be something that another human being thinks is not good. 

(B) 
Many people have arrived at ideas of the just soci­ety. and all of them have been slightly different. 

(C) 
It is quite possible to know human nature without in any way being able to know what is the good for human beings. 

(D) 
Philosophers have argued for centuries over what specifically defines human nature, without coming to a general agreement. 

(E) 
Arriving at an idea of the just society may re­quire more than knowledge of human nature and knowledge of the good for human beings. 


IF YOU THINK THIS YEAR'S NEW GMAT SECTION IS EASY. TRY READING THIS. 
Go ahead. Try it impossible, new section By anticipat-
Not so easy, huh? Especially when ing and teaching all thechangesall you realize just how much is at stake the time. when you're taking yourGMAT. Which means, if you had to look for 
That's why you need Stanley the correct answer to the question at 
H. Kaplan Only we offer the bottom of the page, it's
KAPLAN 
aprepcoursethathelps time you began looking into 
J 
youprepareforthisyear's 11AIILIYH.IAIIANID001101Wa11111LJ1). Stanley H. Kaplan 
_, 
KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER 1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 219/272-4135 



Monday, February 27, 1989 The Observer 
page 15 

CAMPUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 

Rest 
today Year of Cultural Diversity Photo Exhibit "On the Altar of Liberty: Black Churches in the Civil Rights Movement," by Carlton Wilkinson, East concourse of the Hesburgh Li­brary. 
7 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre film "Red Desert," directed by Michelangelo Antonioni, Annenberg Auditorium. 
9:15 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre film "CBS Reports: Hunger in America," Annenberg Auditorium. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
10:10 a.m. Language department lecture "Conception and Misconception: The Problem of Intercultural Stereotyping," by Arno Heller, University of Innsbruck, Austria, Room 218 O'Shaughnessy. 
11:30 a.m. Economics development workshop "Property and Economic Development: The Case of Appalachia," by Debra Spencer, Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
4:30 p.m. Mathematics colloquium "Representing Homology Classes by Spheres," by Dr. Dariusz Wilscynski, Yale Uni­versity, Room 214 Math Building. 
8 p.m. Riley Center lecture "Nature and the Problem of Sci­entific Realism," by Fred Suppe, University of Maryland, Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Sausage Grinder Baked Chicken Sweet & Sour Pork Broccoli Casserole 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
r----------. ro---AL1UJ/Il~ 5rr<!P FOR. 
'i?oPAY. IN 11 PRJIMATIC CAP 70 "Nr/PrrY WeCJC OPr/5VISITS 7H€ 1/UH£ aT&WIII?PeS,J SCHOOL. 
\llow~K.. mK m& 
tJaV&rlr or TH£ rew 
COWAR/7/...Y LtJCill-£PITOR5 11MON& (}(Jf? UI£NTS, 111/.5 AL'TlJRNIIT€ STK!P Rilm/KIN& 11 NCI/J~ IJ(JNAt./J 1T(VMP 
HilS tJea-1 Off@f&f? llo 
II WIMPY IINP Pf?(J{?ISH 
OPTION. 
Saint Mary's 
Roast Beef 
Spaghetti 
Broccoli Cheese Omlette 
Deli Bar 
Pr 1-WW& R&fif?tN& 
7H!J5& WOK!J5, YO!)NOW KNOW WHIIT 50RT or ff?l&&t5H 
!3C.tJ&N05€S f?()N THI5 N&WSPIIf'!JK. 
Mike Muldoon 



ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

54 Dakota Indian 55 "You-seen nothin' yeti" 
57 Iowa church society 
58 The first Mrs. Richard Wagner 
60 Minuetlike dances 
62 Golfer­commentator Ed 
63 Travel a circuit 64 Gypsum plus glue 65 Prizes at hit shows 66 Valuable gadoid 
DOWN 
1 Winter melons 2 Captivates 3 Cousins of 
ponchos 4 --Benedict 5 Soil: Comb. form 
15 Rodeo 34 Blind 47 Single-seeded 6 Absolute pitch, fruits
appurtenance component
for one 

38 Doctrine 49 Truman's 7 Concern of locale 1984 39 Resembling a hometown WHO bull 52 Trajan's 
21 Winter Olympics 
24 Key Revolu­
8 Prophet or 40 Leblanc's sleuth courtyards
tionary battle: 
puritan ending Lupin and 56 Horned
Oct. 7,1777 namesakes Egyptian9 Appendage 26 Aplenty 
42 Cornelius goddess 10 Medicinal root Vanderbilt was 57 Burrows and 
27 January hrs. in 11 Flowers Chicago one Vigoda 12 Flute's bulbous 29 Leash for le 43 Name of three 58 Flavor enhancer. 
relative chien NY lakes for short 44 Hang in there 59 Hubbub
13 This is used to 31 Unusual: Comb. 
cure provolone form 45 Adulterated 61 Numbat's tidbit 
ACROSS 
1 Some R.P.I grads 4 Off-Sicily island group 9 Shakespeare's misanthrope 14 Remedy allaying pain 16 Speedily 17 City on the Ebro 18 Suborn 19 Garner 20 Nine-eyes' cousins 22 Surly churl 23 Conks 24 BMTstop 25 An edible mushroom 28 Tiny interstice 
30 Crusaders' foes 32 Draft initials 33 Weapon 
collection 35 Won at musical chairs 36 Ending for 
dictator 37 Eye, in Avila 38 City in Paraguay 41 Defective 
utterance 43 Theological deg. 46 Where the 
Ringling Museum of Art is 48 Having a soft palate 50 Bog 51 Comptroller General's agcy. 53 Aleppo native 


Sports 
Monday, February 27, 1989 · 
page 16 
Noone joins elite with victory in 
Shannon wins football battle 
By MARK O'SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
In a super heavyweight bat­tle that electrified a Stepan Center crowd of 3,685, Brian "The Cannon" Shannon out­slugged an extremely game Steve Roddy in a unanimous decision to cap the scintillating evening of sweet science that also saw bantamweight Mike "High" Noone join the il­lustrious quartet of four-time champions in the 59-year his­tory of the Bengal Bouts. 
Noone displayed the class and courage of a true Fighting Irishman as he dissected an overmatched Pete Bottini as mercifully as possible while chasing the ghosts of previous four-time champs "Zip" Roemer, Tim Reardon Sr., Roland Chamblee, and An­thony Ricci. 
Mter bloodying Bottini with .a barrage of hooks, Noone, a senior from Brewster, N.Y., planted a right to the ribs that minted his fourth crown at 1: 05 of the third round. 
Two other fighters who suc­cessfully defended their crowns were boxing club offi­cers Doug Biolchini and Vance Bechlund, both juniors who will chase the trifecta next year. 
Biolchini needed a strong third-round showing to retain his junior middleweight cham­pion status on a split decision. Becklund hammered out a lop­sided unanimous decision over "Slim" Reidl to dispel his "Pretty Boy" appellation in seizing his second successive light heavyweight title. 
In the night's most contro­versial decision, junior welter­weight David "Sugar" Cane used a cute and quick style bolstered with one big left late in the third round to earn a split decision in an up-tempo grudge 
-match against junior Tim Reardon. Reardon, who has seen consecutive finalist deci­sions go against him, will have to aim for '90 in hopes that two of three is not bad against Cane. 
.. Big second half lifts Georgia Tech over Irish 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
ATLANTA--When Georgia Tech basketball coach Bobby Cremins entered the Alexander Memorial Coliseum court Sat­
-urday, he saw a group of about 50 fans dressed just like him, complete with the trademark gray· hair. Those Cremins imposters were about the only sight the Yellow Jackets coach enjoyed in the first half of his team's 90-80 win over Notre Dame. The Irish led by as much as 17 points in the first half, thanks in part to Tech's 7-of-30 shoot­ing from the field. "We were just bad," said Cremins. "I couldn't believe the first 15 minutes. I didn't know what was going on." What was going on was some uninspired play by the Jackets and perhaps the best half of the 
Mike Noone follows through with a punch to Pete Bottini in the final of the bantamweight fight 
Junior Rick Purcell switched to a southpaw style to capi­talize with a big third round in taking a unanimous decision from Pat Griffin. The walk-on defensive back from Cincinnati accustomed the crowd to the big-punch attack that had the Stepan Center rocking when Shannon staked a claim to offensive-line supremacy upon scoring a unanimous decision over defensive lineman Roddy. 
In the other finals, junior Joe Dieterle won the flyweight decision unanimously over second-year law student Tom Berens, while senior Dan Schierl's left jab proved the margin of victory over senior Bill Hession for the feather­weight title. 
Senior Troy Duncan's power­packed right forced two stand­ing eight counts which senior Michael Canavan could not overcome in the lightweight title bout, and senior Dan Schneider won a narrow split decision over freshman Matt Raulston for the welterweight crown. 
Freshman Kerry Wate ham­mered punishing rights in 
scoring a unanimous decision Doug Blolchlnl delivers a punch to Kurt Lauber In the final of the see BENGALS, page 13 junior middleweight division Friday night. 
Oliver keys Tech on both ends of court 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
ATLANTA--Joe Fredrick had not found much in the last several games that could stop him from scoring, especially in crucial situations. 
The Irish co-captain had entered Saturday's game at Georgia Tech having scored 20 or more points in seven of his last eight games. He ap­peared ready to continue that pace Saturday, scoring 13 points in the first half as his team held a 41-30 halftime lead. "That kid Fredrick was killing us," said 
LG_e_or..:.g.:..i_a_T_e_c_h_c_oa_c_h_B_o_b_b:..y_C_r_e_m_I_·n_s_._"_l....::j:._u_st 
challenged our kids at halftime, particularly Brian Oliver." 
Oliver was the man who covered Fredrick in the first half. Unfortunately for the Irish, Oliver answered his coach's challenge quite nicely, and Cremins had much different words to say about his team's junior guard after Tech's 90-80 
victory. 

"Brian Oliver has so much heart," said Cremins, referring to the man who held Fredrick to three second-half points. "He just gives you so much heart. Brian's a winner. He's a kid who's a great competitor. He never gives up " 
9
· s_e_e_o_L_I_v_E_R_,_P_a_g_e________J 
season for Notre Dame. Behind Joe Fredrick's 13 points and a 27-16 rebound advantage, Notre Dame jumped to leads of 22-7 and 30-13 before going into intermission ahead 41-30. 
The game was over seven minutes old before Tech got its first points from someone other than Tom Hammonds, who finished with 15 points for the game. Tech's other big gun-­Dennis Scott--shot 2-of-11 with three turnovers in the first half. 
"I was really upset at the way I came out and made some 
finals 
The Observer 1 E.G. Bailey 
bad turnovers," said Scott. "I got down and missed a lot of easy shots. Coach just said, 'Don't let up or give up.' " 
Whatever Cremins said must have worked. In the second half, the Jackets (19-9) out­rebounded the Irish 23-12 and 
Irish upset Longhorns 
By THERESA KELLY Assistant Sports Editor 

In what Notre Dame coach 
Pat Murphy called "the big­
gest win in the history of 
Notre Dame baseball," the 
Irish pounded out 21 hits to 

defeat third-ranked Texas 
12-9 in Austin on Friday. 

"This is the most exciting 
thing ever for Notre Dame 
baseball," Murphy said. 
"I'm proud to be a part of 
this. 
"This was definitely not a 
fluke," he continued, "going 
into the season, on only our 
second day outside, and 
beating a team as good as 
Texas. It's unbelievable." 
The Irish, now 4-1 after 
splitting a doubleheader 
with NAIA baseball power 
Saint Mary's (Tex.), jumped 
out to an early lead against 
the Longhorns with four 
runs in the first inning. With 
the bases loaded, right 
fielder James Sass tripled, 
driving in three runs, then 
scored when Mike Moshier 
followed with a single. 
Frank Jacobs drove in two 
more runs in the fourth with 
a double to increase the Irish 
lead to 6-0 before the Lon­
ghorns (9-4) got on the board 
with four runs in the fourth 
and another in the fifth to 
cut Notre Dame's lead to 6-5. 
Moshier again brought the 
runner home in the Notre 
Dame sixth with a two-out 
single, scoring Dan Peltier 
from third. In the seventh, 
the Irish took a commanding 
11-5 lead. Peltier, who was 
4-of-6 on the day with four 
runs scored, doubled home 
two runs in the seventh and 
see TEXAS, page 14 
ND tennis on a roll, page 13 

shot over 70 percent from the field to walk away with the vic­tory. 
"I thought Tech played very, very well in the second half," said Irish coach Digger Phelps. "They came out with more in­tensity and did a better job rebounding. Thdy did a better job of running the transition 
game. 

"We just didn't do a good job ourselves of getting into the second half, and Tech took it away from us." 
The second half's first points came when Scott nailed a three-pointer, which raised the volume of an already deafening capacity crowd and set the tone for the rest of the game. Scott scored 10 points as Tech started the half with a 20-9 run that cut Notre Dame's lead to 51-50. 
Notre Dame (17-6) lost the 
see TECH, page 12 










