

s_e~er-
VOL. XXIII NO. 1,{) FRIDAY , DECEMBER 1, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Burglar wreaks havoc in LaFortune break-in 
Philippine rebels try to overthrow Aquino, bomb palace 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
and MONICA YANT 
News Writers 
LaFortune Student Center was 
burglarized early Thursday morning 
resulting in damage to rooms on every 
noor of the building. 
Only $50 in cash was stolen from a lirst noor office. 
The controller's office of the Student Union Board (SUB) and the Office of Student Activities sustained the worst damage. 
The office behind the information desk. the Travelmore office, and the junior class office were also damaged. 
Building custodians reported the break in to Notre Dame Security at 4:50 
a.m. Security had completed a routine check of the building at 4:02 a.m. ac­cording to Cynthia Scott, assistant director of public relations and information. 
Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Security, said that that the number of perpetrators is undetermined at this time. Although there are no suspects, he said the burglar(s) was familiar with the building. 
According to Eric Walters, operations manager of LaFortune Student Center, there were two points of entry. 
MANILA, Philippines (AP) ­Rebels bombed the presidential palace Friday and blasted the only operating government TV station off the air after muti­neers seized the air force head­quarters and two broadcast stations in a bid to overthrow President Corazon Aquino. 
Aquino vowed to smash the "shameless and naked attempt" to drive her from power, but provincial Gov. Rudolfo Aguinaldo said the military was committed to ousting her and rebels were moving artillery and armor from his region into the capital. 
The coup attempt, which has left at least 10 dead and 64 

A room with a view 
Senior Molly McMahon studies in the second floor of the 'brare which overlooks the War Memorial and LaFortune Student Center. The peaceful atmosphere of the quad was disrupted Thursday when LaFortune was burglarized. 
wounded, was the most serious since a civilian-military uprising swept Aquino to power in February 1986 and forced the late President Ferdinand Mar­cos into exile. 
Loyalist troops sealed off Malacanang Palace and resi­dents began evacuating for fear of attack as pro-government snipers took positions on roofs in the area. 
Most banks closed and some with automatic teller machines ran out of cash as panicky cus­tomers withdrew their funds. 
The U.S. military restricted travel by its 40,000 troops, military dependents and De­fense Department civilians sta-
The west turret window of the Travelmore travel agency was broken, but a metal grate prevented admission to the rest of the building. Walters believes the same window was used to exit the building after the suspect rummaged through the office. 
According to Walters, the second point of entry was the handicapped entrance on the north side of the building. He said the intruder broke a glass window on the door and reached inside to gain entry. 
The burglar proceeded to the information desk in the west side of the building. The burglar broke a window over the door of the office behind the desk to enter that office, Walters said. 
The intruder stole less than $50 from a cash register in the office. "A shoe print was found on the cash register that matched others in the building," Walters said. 
At this point the burglar suffered an injury and left traces of blood throughout the building. According to Walters, the burglar rummaged through various items in the office. 
The burglar next went to the custodial office in the Dooley room located across 
see BURGLARY I page 5 


LaFortune Bu 
Probable path of the s _,.----;~____......,.,..~---, 
The Observer I Sean Donnelly 

to 100,000 other U.S. civilians live in the Philippines. 
A rebel spokesman said on radio station DZXL that the mutineers will soon "enjoy the fruits of our hardships. 
"Let's pray together for the enlightenment of those people pretending to be leaders like Cory ... and their henchmen," he said. 
Later, a military helicopter dropped a bomb on the rebel­held government television sta­tion. Rebel helicopters bombed the Philippine Constabulary headquarters at Camp Crame, 
setting  the  main  building  
ablaze.  Other  bombs  landed  
across  the  street  at  Camp  

St. Michael's investigation complete, results delayed 

By BRADLEY GALKO 
News Writer 
The on-sight investigation of the fire at Saint Michael's Laundry is completed, but re­sults are not expected to be re­leased for weeks. 
"We have not gotten the (insurance) report back yet," said James Lyphout, assistant vice-president for business af­fairs. He added that Arkwright­Boston, the insurance company handling the claim, "is very re­luctant to give us a specific time," as to when the report would arrive. 
He speculated that the report would be issued in ten days to two weeks at the very earliest. 
"They (the insurance com­pany) have done the on-sight inspection," said Lyphout. Di­rector of fire safety, Jack Bland, confirmed this. 
The only preliminary clue to the possible cause of the blaze came from Jay Pamfil, claims manager for Arkwright­Boston's Chicago office. "They (investigators) had a specialist in (fire) origin investigate some chemicals." He added, "They're still waiting for some fresh samples of chemicals." 
Robert Zerr, Notre Dame's director of risk management and safety, said that the insur­ance company is "still running some lab tests." 
"We are involved in determin­ing the cause," Bland added. "We're doing some testing... normal tests of debris at fires." No special tests have been ordered, he said. 
The investigation is being conducted by the Detroit office of Factory Mutual Insurance Company. Arkwright-Boston is one of three Factory Mutual in-
see FIRE I page 3 
Aguinaldo, the armed forces headquarters. 
A rebel bomb also damaged the transmitter of RPN televi­sion, knocking off the air the only station the government could use to broadcast assur­ances to the public and appeals to the rebels to surrender. 
Witnesses reported two pro­government soldiers and three civilians were killed during spo­radic clashes near the state ra­dio~television station, which the rebels held. While no official casualty figures were available, accounts from witnesses, re­porters and hospitals showed 
see UPRISING I page 4 


INSIDE COLUMN 
WEATHER 


Bull sessions a necessary evil of college life 
It always begins innocently enough. You walk into a friend's room across Tripp Baltz the hall, pick up a News Editor Emeritus photo album or somn otlwr personal itPm, and a convt>rsation begins. You start talking about all the work you've got to do, your futurP. God. life. the univnrsP, etc. 
Befort~ you know it, you've succumbed to a common collegP phenomenon: the bull s11ssion. Or shooting thi~ bull, the bn~cz1~. the wind. You can get into llllP at any tinw or place, with anybody. although roommates arc ideal bull session partners. Think it's ironic that bull sessions occur most often in the w1w hours of tlw morning, when you'rp awake anyway because you're working on a Wrm paper? It's not. The bull session is just 
Forecast for noon, Friday, December 1. 
another way to blow off msponsibility. "Waste of time," my dad always said. "Don't ever wash~ any limn sitting around talking about nothing ~tall." 
/\fter more than thrne years of plunging into topics such as polities, sports, rPiigion and othnr pressing soeial and existnntial concepts, I must admit that not a word of onn of tlwse latll-night talks was ever useful to me. 
Like "Trivial Pursuit." bull sessions are a nwdium of useless facts and knowledge. But are the sessions thems!llves useless'! 
In "Life on the Mississippi," Mark Twain describes tlH~ rough river-running keel­haulers who sat around, lilling each others' nars with the wildest. most colorful lies. 
WoRLD 

Tomonori Tsurumaki, 
Mother Teresa, who suffered a !wart attark in president of Nippon /\utopolis September. will rnceive a JHLCPtnakPr in an opl'l"ation on Co. stunned the art market Friday, lwr doctor said. /\!though slw fnll ill Wndrwsday Thursday by outbidding a hours after slw nwt visitors for tlw first limn sirH'P slw Parisian dealer to buy left tlw Calcutta nursing honw in Orl. 14. llr. /\shim "Pierrette's Wedding," a Picasso Bardhan said slw was resting Thursday and that lwr ron­masterpiece. for $48.9 million­clition was normal. !\ special prayPr was said for tlw 79­a record for a work by the artist. year-old Homan Catholic nun Thursday at thP Missionar­The auction linked competitive ies of Charity. tlw lwadquartPrs of lwr worldwidP charity bidders in Paris and Tokyo by that cares for tlw destitutP and tlw dying on six ronti­live satellite TV. The record for nents. any work of art-$53.9 million dollars -was set in 1987 for Vincent Van Gogh's "Irises." 
These sessions often caine to blows, of 
course, but they always 1~stablished one thing: who was the boldest and most fearsome of the pack, the so-called Big Clwese. 
Today's bull sessions feature the same 
bravado and exaggeration of those earlier 
violent ones. Each tale imparts to its ti~IIM 
the chanc11 to stand alone in the spotlight 
with his opinion, funny anecdote or 
memorable experience. The spotlight shifts 
as oftml as the subject changes, with 
reckless disregard for what's being talk1~d 
about in the first place. 

It's in daily discussion that friendships are formnd and strengthened. Dad was right about the uselessness of shooting the bull. But what he didn't realize was how memorable such times would be. So as long as as tlwre are chapters to be read, tests to study for and papers to write, there will be bull sessions. That's because there are always people to toss the bull around with. 
"I have a German paper due tomorrow, but you know what I heard about this new parietals revision proposal...?" 
Tripp Baltz is a 1987 graduate of the University and former news editor of The Observer. The views expressed are the author's and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
(This column appeared in The Observer on Oct. 7, 1986.) 
NATIONAL 

President Bush vetoed a bill to allow Chinese stu­A man shot his wife and rli[JI'd two tPadwrs in dents to remain in the United States after their visas. front of 19 childrPn in a kindPrgartPn classroom Thurs­which are usually issued for two years, expire Thursday, day whilP holding polirP at bay with a pistol. authoritiPs calling it unnecessary and an infringement on his presi­in Natchez. Miss. said. Larry BatPs, :~:>. was rhargPd with dential authority. ''I'm shocked that the prnsidmlt would aggravated assault, two counts of rapP, two counts of kowtow in this way to the demands of the ChinPse com­sexual battery. possession of a firearm by a fPion and 22 munist government, especially when that government was counts of kidnapping in tlw incid(•nt at NorlhsidP l'rimar}' thrnatening Chinese students lwre in the UnitPd Statns School. The man's wife, a tParlwr's aidn at tlw school. and telling them that the United States was not going to sul'fnred gunshot wounds to tlw scalp and hark was in protect them," said Hep. Bruce Morrison, chairman of' a stable condition. llouse Judiciary subcommittee on immigration. 
Round, black markers dotted the huge stone faces A Miami police officer who shot a blark motorcy­of four U.S. presidents Thursday as a project got under clist testified in his own del'nnsP Thursday. lPIIing jurors way to develop a long-term maintenance plan for Mount lw lirnd only because he thought lw was about to din. "liP Hushmore. National Park Service employees and workers just came straight at me and lw just rPVV!ld tlw motorry­from an engineering firm carefully positioned 60 to 75 of eln," officer William Lozano, ]1, tPstifiPd. l'rosprution the plastic markers on the 60-foot granite faces so a pho­witnesses testified that tlw Hispanic oiTirPr, who fai'PS tographer in a helicopter could take dose-up pictures of two counts of manslaughter in the deaths of tlw motor­the hundreds of cracks that may threaten the structural cyclist and a passenger. eoolly took aim and lirPd as tlw integrity of the Shrine of Democracy. bike was about to pass him whiln being pursund by a po­
lice car. 

OF INTEREST 
Students skate free tonight following the Notre .Alumni Senior Club is rlosnd today. Billy "Stix" Dame vs. Mankato State hockey game. Nrcks and the N's and Outs will pPrform Saturday at 

=-The_Observer 
PO Box 0  Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556  
(219)'239-74 71  
Friday's  Staff  
Production Joe Zadrozny Cristina Oritz  
News Kelley Tuthill Monica Yant Accent Robyn Simmons Liz Havel Brian Grunert  Viewpoint Chnsttne Walsh Janice O'Leary Kate Foster Systems ChrisZaback Michael Gargiulo  Ad Design Amy Eckert Val Paletta Meg Callahan Anita Covelli Jeanne Naylor Sports Ken Tysiac  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) 1S publiShed Monday through Fnday excepl dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS a member of the Assoc1ated Press All reproductiOn nghts are reserved 
9:30p.m. 
ALMANAC 
On December 1: 

e In 1824: Tlw prPsidPntial election was turrwd ov!'r to tlw !Iotts!' of HnprnsPntatives wlwn a deadlock dPvnlopPd hPtWPI'n .John <)uinry /\dams. /\ndrPw .Jackson, William Crawford and IlPnry Clay. /\dams PVPntually was dedan~d the winrwr. 
e In 1955: Black seamstrPss Hosa Parks was arrnsl!•d for n~fusing to give up lwr seat on a ~ontgonwry, /\Ia., city bus to a white man. sparking a year­long boycott of tlw busPs by blacks. Tlw law requiring 
blacks to sit in thn bark of bus1~s was nvnntually struck down by thn Suprnmn Court. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY ©1989 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
~"\t:

®© ~ ~ ~ ~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V1a Assoctated Press Graph1csNet 
Yesterday's high: 41 Yesterday's low: 25 Nation's high: 83 (San Juan Capistrano, Calif.) Nation's low: -12 (West Yellowstone, Mont.) 
Forecast: Mostly sunny and cool today. Highs in the upper 30s. Increasing cloudi­ness and cold tonight. Lows from the middle to upper 20s. Cloudy and 
·cool Saturday with a 40 percent chance of snow showers. Highs from the middle to upper 30s. 
INDIANA 
Weather observer Clara Hoover says if Johnny Carson wants to talk to her, he can send a Tonight Show crew out to Sheridan, Ind. Carson's talent coordinator invited Hoover to appear on the show after hearing about Hoover's years of foretelling the weather with wooley worms, per­simmon seeds and the wind. "I have no desire to go out there. If he wants to talk to me, he knows where to lind me"lloover responded. 
The Indiana Supreme Court issued its most sweeping set of rule changes in decades on Thursday, altering guidelines that govern death penalty appeals, judicial discipline and admission to the bar. In a rule designed to allow students to focus more on their legal education, the court prohibited second-year law students from taking the bar exam, Bruce Kotzan, state court adminis­trator said. 
MARKET UPDATE Closings for November 30, 1989 
Volume 1n shares 

153.20 Million 
01.05 S&P Composite 345.99 0 2.39 Dow Jones Industrials 2706.27 017.49 
Precious Metals Gold 0 $2.70 to $411.60 1oz. 
Silver 0 6.8¢ to $5.67 I oz. 


Source: AP 

Friday, December 1, 1989 
The Observer page 3 
Bush and Gorbachev summit begins Saturday off Malta 
Leaders of the superpowers prepare to work for peace 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Presi­dent Bush headed Thursday for his first summit with Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, saying the two have a "powerful and historic oppor­tunity" to work for peace. Gor­bachev, in a speech in Rome, called for a 35-nation meeting next year to speed the integra­tion of Europe. 
Urging an end to East-West divisions, Gorbachev said the 
• changes sweeping Eastern Eu­rope and toppling hard-line communist regimes am irrevo­cable. IIe said they do not sig­nal "the eollapse of socialism" but. rather, further develop­mnnt of a concept with noble goals and "enormous humanis­tic and dnmocratic potential." ''I'm ready and confident," Bush said at a farewell cere­mony in the White I louse Hose Garden a few hours before de­parting Andrews Air Force Bas1~. Mel., aboard the presiden­ti<tl jet. lie labeled himself and Gorbachev as "envoys for posi­tive. productive change." lie praised Gorbachev as a man "looking for ways to keep those reforms moving forward, and I'm looking for ways to promote democracy and free­dom." "And today," the president said. "the people of Berlin toast the dawn of a new Europe." 
Aboard Air Force One shortly after takeoff. Bush told re­porters, "We're about on the 

-··············································· the Christmas decorations
•

• strung across the main shop­
DESTINATIONS UNLIMITED • 
ping streets in this heavily Ro­
•

• man Catholic country . 
"Where ~ervice Is Unlimited'~ 


The Maltese get ready for summit 
VALlErTA. Malta (APl ­Long experiencPd in dealing with invaders, the Maltese are blocking off roads and mobiliz­ing the military -and even the boy scouts -to get n~ady for this weekend's superpower summit. 
Prim!~ Minister Edward Fenech Adami declared his is­land nation set for the arrivals Friday of President Bush and Soviet President Mikhail Gor­barhev for their talks aboard warships anchored in a Maltese harbor. 
"The arrangements have gone beautifully," Fenech 
same wavelength, from what I've heard from the briefings" by European leaders who had recently spoken with Gor­bachev. 
Half a world away, authori­ties on the Mediterranean is­land of Malta were busy mobi­lizing the military -and even the boy scouts -in prepara­tion for the superpower lead­ers. 
Not even a shortage of tiny, wavable Soviet flags was enough to hamper the prepara­tions, said Eddie Stafrace, who mported selling 160 American and Maltese nags a day from his little toy store behind the Palace of the Grand Masters in Valletta. 
Bush and Gorbachev will meet 
Saturday, beginning 11 1/2 
hours of talks over two days on 
warships anchored off the 
Mediterranean island of Malta. 
Addressing 300 administra­tion officials, Bush said, "This meeting represents a point of departure, the beginning of a process as full of promise as any that we've ever known. 
"And given the remarkable and rapid change in Eastern Europe," he said, "our meeting will be yet another important step in this long but hopeful journey toward a Europe that is indeed whole and free." 
Adami told a news conference "They never sent the Russian Thursday. ones," Stafrace said of his Ital­
Malta's entire 1,200-man mil­ian suppliers. "When Soviet itary and most of its 1,000 po­sailors come ashore, they nor­liCf~ officers have been assigned mally don't have money and to security tasks for the meet­want to exchange. I traded for ing. manning roadblocks and some pennants with Gor­checkpoints and making round­bachev's face on them. But I've the-dock patrols on land and sold all them already." at sea. The Maltese government has 
Even a shortage of tiny, wav­come up with enough large So­able Soviet nags hasn't been viet and American nags to dec­enough to hamper the prepara­orate the public buildings in tions, said Eddie Stafrace, who Valletta, a capital of steep nar­reports selling 160 American row streets lined with ocher and Maltese nags a day from stone buildings. his little toy store behind the The stark, almost treeless Palace of the Grand Masters. setting could be mistaken for 
North Africa, if it weren't for 
Malta talks 
could lead to 

arms cuts 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush's Mediterranean summit with Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev could speed up a timetable for new super­power accords slashing arse­nals of nuclear, conventional and chemical weapons. 
"It would seem like all the signs are pointing to quick res­olution," said James Rubin, as­sistant director of the Arms Control Association of Wash­ington. "But a summit resolu­tion to move to completion to all three is the best we should hope for." 
Bush has stressed that the summit will not focus on arms control and that he was "not going to surprise" the Soviets with any flashy proposals. 
Gorbachev, however, is known for doing the unex­pected. and he may try to pres­sure Bush into talks on naval power. The U.S. Navy is rated mightier, and the Reagan and Bush administrations have re­sisted having this put question put on any arms-control nego­tiating tables in the past. 
The general subject of arms control, nevertheless, always is center-stage when the super­power leaders meet. Gorbachev, in a joint statement Thursday 

' with Italian leaders, expressed hope for agreements by the end of 1990 to cut conventional and 
AP 
chemical weapons. 


Marines prepare USS Belknap for Bush's arrival 
MARSAXLOKK BAY, Malta president of the United (AP) -A Marine captain States meeting on this ship," drilled the honor guard in said Capt. John Sigler, the crisp salutes while sailors commander of the Belknap. scrubbed and painted the "We feel very honored to USS Belknap Thursday for be a part of this hopefully President Bush's shipboard very historic moment," he summit with Soviet President added. Mikhail Gorbachev. When Bush, a former Navy 
The almost 600-member aviator. first steps off a heli­crew aboard the guided copter onto the deck of the missile cruiser worked Belknap, he'll be able to see around visiting reporters a hand-lettered "Beat Army" and a tour of Soviet sailors poster pasted to a bulkhead. and officers to spruce up the Bush will sleep in the quar­Belknap and prepare its ters of Vice Adm. J.D. rooms for the heads of state. Williams, the 6th Fleet com­
"Of course the real impor­mander, meet privately with tance of this visit is not the Gorbachev in the admiral's ship itself, but the president small dining room and be of the Soviet Union and the host for a state dinner. 
Week·end Liturgical Schedule at StepanJoin Us At The ~ 
Saturday, December 2 Eucharist, 5:00pm at Stepan center. 

Fire

Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C. presider. Notre Dame Women's Choir. 
continued from page 1 
surance companies, according to Lyphout.

Sunday, December 3 Eucharist] O:OOam at Stepan Center. 
Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C., presider. 
Jim Fine, adjustment man­

Voices of Faith Choir, Notre Dame Handbells.
.ORANGE BOWL ager for Factory Mutual's De­
• 
troit office, and Randy Rigdon, 

• 
Eucharist]] :45am at Stepan Center. Meeting of Orthodox Christian Students, 
field adjustor for the Saint

Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C., presider. 8pm Badin Hall Campus Ministry Conference 
Michael's case, both refused to

•
• Notre Dame Folk Choir. Room. 
comment on the investigation.

: December 29th -January 2nd STARTING AT 8699 




PHOENIX 
Package Includes: Nonstop air from South Bend • Game tickets 
• Transfers, tax and gratuity • Deluxe hotel accommodations 
liveat ~
*PARTY CRUISE to and from the game! * 
NIGHtCLUB

Call DESTINATIONS Ul\LIMITED At 
Friday night 10:00PM
234-9099 1-800-373-2918 

Friday, December 1, 1989
page 4 The Observer 

+ 




Campus Christmas tree vandalized twice 
MOVE INTO HEALTH CARE with the 
ARMY RESERVE. Become a/an: 
* 
Dental Lab Specialist 

* 
EMT (Paramedic) 

* 
Practical Nurse 

* 
O.R. Specialist 

* 
X-ray Specialist 

* 
Pharmacy Specialist 

* 
Respiratory Specialist 


• Lab Specialist 
Train at a local, Army­approved civilian school of your choice. Our new Specialized Training for Army Readiness (STAR) program pays for your tuition, books, and fees. 
Find out if you qualify. Call: SGT Larry Holloway Army Recruiting Station 
125 S. Hill Street South Bend 234-4187 
Be All You Can Be: ARMY RESERVE 
introducing: 

' 
r------------------------For Good Times and GREAT Pizza 
k'\JJ~w-lhrr$ l.CJu:.tm ~J ~ R~~\W(~~t! .W)1~~ll ~li/ilr~~~ 
specializing in a traditional, hand tossed pizza made with only the freshest ingredients and 100% mozzarella cheese. 
Mon-Sat llam-lam Sun 12noon -9pm 
18047 State Road 23 South Bend, In (1 /2 mile east of Notre Dame) 
call for nightly specials: 271-8158 

Uprising 
continued from page 1 
at least 64 were woundnd. 
Th1~ military ehief of staff, Gen. Hnnato de Villa, eoneeded that the rebels seized Villamor Air Base, headquarters of the Philippinn air foren; the gov­ernmnnt broadcast ennter; a private TV station; and parts of Ninoy Aquino lnWrnational Airport. The airport was dosed to all flights. 
Who was leading tlw mutiny was unelnar. Hebel soldi1~rs would not say. They were bn­lilwnd loyal to renegadn Lt. Col. Gregorio "Gringo" llonasan, who lnd an August 1987 eoup attempt in which at least 53 people were killed. 
De Villa estirnat1~d rebel stn~ngth at about ROO. A muti­nous captain put the figure at 2,000. De Villa daimed troops remained loyal in nortlwrn Lu­zon, Mindanao and in the soutlwrn Luzon command. 
Two T-28 aircraft bombed 
and roeketed the Malaeanang 
compound at 6:30 a.m. (5:30 
p.m. EST Thursday). 

Mediterranean peace march 
AP Photo 
Waluliso, a pr~phet of peace from Vienna, Austria walks along the shoreline of Marsaxlokk Bay, Malta, where the Sov1et cru1ser Slava, left, and USS Belknap are anchored, Wednesday. U.S. President Bush and Soviet President Gorbachev will meet on the ships this weekend. 


-AHERS 
720 W. EDISON, MISHAWAKA Between Hickory and Grape 255·2001 
• 153 Machines * 4·50 lb. Washet"1 *Drive-Up Window 
* 
lxper1enced Drop-Oil Laundry Service & free Steamer * Allendanl on Duty at all Times·) a.m ·Midnight 

* 
Proleulonal Dry Cleaning Service *lighted Perking Lot • No Smoking Area *leather & Suede Service *Free Co Nee 


¥-Student Discounts 
20% ott Dry Cleaning 25 ott Top Load Washers 
with Student J.D. 


Lenny's e,~o\c~ 
271-8158 \)\.'C" 0-s $1.00 off any 12" pizza $2.00 off any 16" pizza 
*only one coupon per order-not ot be used in conjunction with any other special or coupon. EXPIRES: 12/31/89 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Assistant News Editor 

The Christmas tree located on the eorner of Notre Dame Av­enue and Angela Boulevard has been vandalized twice this sea­
son,  said  Patrick  McCauslin,  
assistant  superintendent  of  
grounds.  

The most reeent ineidnnt oc­curred Tuesday night after the Notre Dame men's basketball game, he said. 
The vandals stole three or four sections of lights from the three and left five sets of lights on the ground, aeeording to MeCauslin. The garland in front of the ND llownr mound was also "messed up," hn said. 
The other ineidnnt occurred lr~<;l wef'k and tlw vandals darn-aged the ND !lower mound as well as the tree. Vandals kicked up bulbs that Grounds had planted and tampNnd with pine 
boughs  that  were  placed  
around the bulbs.  
Tuesday's  incident  appears  

"to have been students," said McCauslin. lin said he bPiievn this beeause there wnre tracks in the snow lnading baek to campus down Notre Damn Av­enun. 
"We decorate tlw tree to beautify the campus." Mc­Causlin said. "We're just trying­to be a part of tlw Christmas spirit." lie said that this type of vandalism dews not lwlp. 
McCauslin said that vandal­ism to the Christmas tn~e oe­curs ev1~ry year. 

The Accent Staff 
is looking for a few intellectually Hip people to fill the following positions: 
1. 
Copy Editor 

2. 
Assistant Accent Editor 


Call John Blasi at The Observer, 239-5303. 
_,.._..'""'­

,. -~~-' FREE TANNING 

,.,.; with every Purchase! 
\ FOR AVERY UMITED nME! 
~-~ .1/. I . (WITH THIS AD) '/'.;. /:
..1 ~ FOR DElAILS ... 
\ / \I' , stop in to see our 
~ --~~., \ salon, or call us at .. 
I-~:-, \" I 6_ 272-7653 
I P\J)~m•y, 1990 
University Commons, St. Rd. 2:.1. South Bend, ln. 

LA FORTUNE BURGLARY
Friday, December 1, 1989 page 5 
which contained a safe, a Mac­intosh computer and a laser­
Burglary Trail of evidence
writer. The safe only contained
continued from page 1 
$10 of petty cash, Singh said. 
from tlw (nformation desk, said WaltPrs. Tlw suspect stole a nwtal rod from tlw closet which apparl'ntly was used to break doors and windows in the rest of thn building. 
Next the suspeet entered the south stairs through an un­locked door to gain access to othl'l" l"loors of the building, said Hurley. 
Tlw SUS(H'rt used the metal objPrt to brPak a hoiP through tlw locked wood door leading from tlw staircase to thl' snr­ond floor, Walters said. 
On tlw serond floor. the bur­glar broke thP window of the junior rlass offic~n. "The win­dow far.ing tlw hallway was romplPtPly shattPrnd," said Rob l'asin. junior class prnsident. liP said that SPrurity officers told him that tlw intrudnr went through PVPry draw<'r in thn oiTirn and was not wnaring glows. 
Although llwrP was $20 in rash. a computnr and a radio in thl' oiTirP. l'asin said nothing was takPn. 
Tlw burglar next wPnt to thl' sophomore• rlass oflkn, ac~c:ord­ing to \ValtPrs. ThP intrudl'r appar!'ntly poundl'd on thn door with a nwtal objPrt but did not entPr th!' ol"licn. 
Sophomore• rlass pr!'sidnnt .John CoiTPy said, "ThNI' wem about a dozl'n hamnwr marks on tlw door. Tlwrl' was blood squirtPd on door and on thn hand I<'." 
Thn intrudnr proennded to tlw SUB office at thn northeast section of tlw snrond floor. Wal­tPrs said thn burglar again broke a window, rnachnd in and opPnnd thn offien door. 
lnsidn, thn suspPrt tried to nnt!'f tlw rontroller's office, ac­rording to SUB board manager Haja Singh. Tlw door was smaslwd in around thn lock and thnrn was blood on thn door, Singh said. 
Tlw burglar was not able to nntpr thn rontrollnr's officn 
Returning to the south stairs, the burglar proceeded to the third floor of LaFortune and entered in the same manner. 
The burglar ransacked the Student Activities office on the third floor after breaking a window to enter the office, said Walters. The suspect broke a desk from which he stole keys to unidentified businesses in the building. The locks in the building have been changed, WaltPrs said. 
No cash was taken from the office. Traces of blood were found throughout the office,_ Waltnrs said. 
Tlw safe in the office re­mained intact. according to Charlie Francis, assistant di­rector of facilities. 
Th11 intrudnr nnxt broke into The Observer office. "They found somn fingerprints in there," WaltPrs said. but noth­ing was taken from the office. 
At this point. the suspect is believed to have left the build­ing. 
"Because of the number of areas entPred in the building, it is very time consuming to pro­cess the investigation," said llurley. Officers did a thorough investigation of the building on Thursday including dusting for fingerprints. 
"It appears at this point that just a number of things (offices) were gone through," he said. Security is still trying to determine the extent of the loss, said Hurley. 
LaFortune does not have an exterior alarm system, Francis said. Inside the building the only alarms are in Theodore's and for a portable sound sys­tem which is used for concerts on Fieldhouse Mall, he said. 
"Our first priority was to se­cure the building from the out­side," said Francis. The outside windows have been replaced and there arc boards covering damaged interior doors and 
Join 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey Top: The door to the controller's office in the SUB office was damaged after an unidentified burglar(s) attempted to enter early Thursday morning. Although the burglar was successful in breaking into the SUB outer office, the controller's office remained intact. Left: The doorto the second floor south stairs in LaFortune was pried open by the intruder who reached through the hole to open the door and gain entry,. Above: Detective Sergeant Dennis Navarre of Notre Dame Security takes fingerprints in the junior class office after the break-in Thursday. 


Cards Children's Corner Collectibles David Winter Collages 
Jt.Welry
Men's Gifts Picture Frames Tom Clark's Gnomes Wind Chimes Year-around Christmas 

Monday· Saturday 10:00 • 9:00 Sunday 1:00-.5:00 
windows. Alison Cocks, The Observer's 
production manager said that 
Francis said he asked Secu­her staff left the office at 3:30 rity to check the building more a.m. The Observer staff is typi­often between the hours of two cally the last to leave the upper and five in the morning. levels of the building. 
\le need someonewith theronfidence ofaSUl'geOil, thededicationot amarathonerand the rourageofanexplorer. 
We need a Peace Corps volunteer. Call us all-800-424-8580, Ext. 9l 
PeaceCorps. 
lhc~,.,tt,.,..lnnkM. 


Book Sale in the Atrium 
Although The Observer office was vacant, the 24-hour computer lounge in the basement of LaFortune was occupied at the time of the bur­glary. 
For the facts call your local Red Cross. or write, 
AIDS 
+
American Red Cross == 
W..Shington. DC 20006 


Gorbachev proposes new summit 
HOMI·: !API -Soviet Pn~si­dnnl Mikhail Gorbadwv pro­posed Thursday that a summit of European nations, the United Stales and Canada be lwld nnxt yPar to speed up the inll~gration of Europe and eliminatn East-West divisions. 
Gorbachev said the meeting he eallnd "lldsinki 2" should be movt~d up from 1992 as origi­IHtlly called for under the 1975 IIPlsinki Accords on human rights and serurity in Europe. 
lin made the proposal in a spnt-\eh from the Midwlangelo­desiglwd Campidoglio. Home's city hall. wlwrP the treaty was sig1wd in 1957 establishing the European Common Market. 
Gorbachev said the sweeping changPs in Eastern Europe arc irrevocable. lie insisted they do not signal "tlw collapse of so­cialism." but rather the further dnvnlopnwnt of a concept with nobiP goals and "enormous humanistic: and dPmocratie po­llmlial." 
On tlw eve of his historic meeting with Pope John Paul II, Gorbadwv said that Soviets havn changed their attitude to­ward rPiigion and now believe rnligious values can hPip in the rnstrurturing of Soviet society. 
(;orbaclwv's 20-minute SJ>Pnch. delivered while standing in front of a 12-foot-high statun of Julius Caesar, was in­terrupted three times by ap­plause from scvPral hundred dignitaries. At the end, they stood and clappPd politely. 
Expanding on his desire to build "a common European home," Gorbachev said rncent events. pn~sumably the dra­matk rush toward reform in Eastern Europe, "underscore the desirability of an all-Euro­pean summit. a Helsinki 2 meeting. We could consider ad-

Indiana won't change teen abortion law 
INDIANAPOLIS IAPI -Indi­ana's abortion law for minors is not likPiy to lw afTected when l.lw U.S. SuprPmP Court issuns a ruling on parental notification laws in Ohio and \'linnesota. an anti-abortion altonwy said Thursday. 
Indiana law rPquires women undPr 1 H to havP tlw ronsPnt of tlllP parPnt hPforP tlwy can spnk an abortion. Tlw 19H4 statute was modPIPd afiPr a Missouri law that was uphPid by the na­tion's higlwst court in 1<JH3. 
"I don't think tlw constitu­tionality of Indiana's statutP is at all at stakP in the Suprenw Court cast~s." said James Bopp .Jr., a TNrP llautn attonwy who is ge1wral counsPI for tlw Na­tional Hight to Life Committee. 
Bopp was in Washington on W<~d1wsday observing argu­ments heard mgarding the Minnesota and Ohio laws, which rnquirP notice to parnnts, not consent. 
"Basnd upon their prior opinions in abortion casPs, I think tlw outlook is good for the statutes to bn uphnld," said Bopp. 
BPth Lowry, state field orga­nizer for thn Indiana l'ro­Choien Adion LPaglJ(~. said In­
diana's  law  does  ofTnr  some  
loopholns  to  tlw prPgnan t mi­ 
nor.  

"Tiw minor may avoid parnntal involwnwnt only by obtaining a court order stating Pitlwr that sl11• is maturn Pnough to makP lwr own abor­tion dPcision or that an abor­tion is in lwr twsl intPrPst." slw said. 
vancing its date from 1992 to, say. as early as 1990." 
The Soviet Union had been 
pressing for an international 
human rights confPrenee to be 
h1~ld in Moscow next year as 
part of the process leading to­
ward the next 35-nation Con­
fen~nce on Security and Coop­
eration in Europe. 
The conference last met in Hnlsinki in 1975. when the United States, the Soviet Union, Canada and all European coun­tries except Albania signed tim Helsinki Accords concerning military security. economic eo­operation and human rights. 
"In the final analysis." Gor­bachev said. "we envision Eu­rope as a commonwealth of sovnreign democratic states with a high level of equitable in­terdependence and easily accns­sibln borders open to the ex­change of products, technolo­gies and ideas and wide-rang­ing contacts among people." 
Although lw did not repeat it in his speech Thursday, tlw So­viet Union has said it is pre­pan~d to negotiate dissolution of the Warsaw Pact and NATO. The United States has rejected the suggestion pending further progress in nuclear and con­ventional arms control talks. 
Gorbadwv, who was baptized in tlw Hussian Orthodox Church but rose through the ranks of the ollicially atheist Communist Party, said the Soviets "have abandoned the claim to have a monopoly on the truth. We no longer think that we are the best and that we are always right, that those who disagree with us are our enemies." 
And he said Soviets have changed their attitude toward religion. "which, admittedly, we used to treat in a simplistic manner." 

Religion has been rejected to some extent in all major social upheavals, not just the Com­munist revolution, he said. "But now we not only proceed from the assumption that no one should interfere in matters of the individual's conscience; we also say that the moral values which religion generated and embodied for centuries can help in the work of renewal in our country. too. In fact. this is al­ready happening." 
Gorbachev goes to the Vati­can on Friday for the first meeting between the pope and a Soviet Communist Party chief. On Saturday, he begins a two­day summit with President Bush on ships in the Mnditer­
ram~an. 
Gorbachnv rejected sugges­tions that removal of barriers between East and West can only be accomplished if the So­viet Union abandons its ideo­logical and social values. 
"frankly, we are often told that we should purely and sim­ply renounce socialism," lw said. "Then. it is said, the world will become a nice and easy place to live in.... This is not the approach that the world needs as it is taking a gn~at turn to a new era." 
"Today, the focus is on the socialist world," he said. "!laving embarked upon tlw road of radical reform, the so­cialist countries, one after an­other, are crossing the line be­yond which there is no return to the past." 
Heferring to his meetings with Bush, Gorbachev said he is convinced the talks will "enable us to take a new constructive step in the movement from mu­tual understanding to mutual action in Soviet-U.S. relations." 
WOMEN-MEN 
A 4 hour walk-in test is being conducted by the Federal Aviation Administration at the following location: I USB Northside Hall, Room 104, Northside Blvd. South Bend, Indiana December 2, 1989 at 9:00 am 
Starting salary $19,493 with potential to $60,000. Aviation experience Is not required! Excellent training, benems and retirement plans. Must be under the age of 31 and a U.S citizen. 


Powerful West German banker killed by terrorists 
BAD HOMBUHG, West Ger­many (AP) -The terrorist Hed Army Faction, dormant for three years. killed Wnst Germany's most powerful banker Thursday by blowing apart his armowd Mnrcedes with a light-sensitive bomb on a bicyde. 
Alfred Herrhausen was chairman of Deusche Bank, West Germany's largest. and one of Chancellor Helmut Kohl's chinf economic advis­ers. 
Police said the the bicyde­bomb apparently was placed on a street of this spa town outside Frankfurt. where tlw 59-year-old banknr lived. 
SWITZ. and detonated by a sophisti­AP cated light-beam dnvice as lw drove by on his way to work. stolen white l.anria lwliewd 
They said it was tlw first to havP been used in tlw gt•l­time tPrrorists had used away was found abandonPd such a detonator in West in a Frankfurt suburb. Germany. "For a long LimP, tlw 
FedPral rriminal polieP of­f)putsrhP Bank and fered a reward of up to $2.2 IIPrrhausPn in partirular million, 01w of the largest havp bPPn largPIPCI by tlw ever in West Germany. Bed Army Faction," said 
Police with lwlieopters llans-.luPrgen FoerstPr, were searching for two nwn spokPsnutn for tlw rhiPf fPd­seen leaving ·thP an~a. A Pral prosPrutor's ofTicP. 

There~s a PS/2®that~s 

right for you. 

Now with Immediate Delivery! 
Three of I he most popular IB\ll'roprintersTM ~ arc available now al special low prices, and -.:_.; , 
,lightly longer delivery. : •. l'roprintcr Ill w/l.able (1201/003) $406 ~ } l'roprinter X2,tE w/Cable (4207/002) $519 
Proprinter X L21E w/Cable (4208/002) S7:l6 .~ ..~ Start out the new year right. Check out all -~·~--t.ll. . theRe spectal Ravtngfi now-before ",,,-._ -... Q --:-: • ' 1 _6;~·.:·;:, •
........~.....,.

11 s too late. :_~41 ·/:::!!J;_~~ 
llow're you going to do it'~ 
PS/2 it! 
Notre Dame Computer Store Computing Center and Math Building 239-7477 
= =-:. === 
"7htt ~,., rt •rnned 10 ~lllrl,.,a IQ.JO.nll, faCI.J1ty W'lll 11al! .,.,no or Ott an IBM PS/2 Moolillfi.xl E21 a 8fD&.aJ1 lh't.ugh O.c.mb8r J 1, IIIIi Ptoc.t Q..Ciod do nolncLoc:le 111111 '"" Po<:H lbi:MI ao n::luoea h8f'ldltlg chltgt Checll """' yc1.11 nllt~IAoOn•~tg•dr.g t111 erwge ~BM al"(l PSn •• 
•ey,.ler&a l•lldem•"' ol,!"llernlltoon~l Bo'"'"' MIGhroet Ccrptrlltl()l'l ..PtOPtnl., trd MctoCnamelltl tlld.,•~• r:J lnt8rnCO"al Rv•"'­M.crne• CaiX)'aloOn ""91lJ86SX _,d 8CIUI6 •e ~ld....-•11.1 of Inti! Capo~a1oa1 PtoCM •eiUb,.ct IOCfW'QII W'IOIBM mil{ W!lnor..,.. h P/17"'10110" lllll"'y tome Wl!hwtw•rnen no!ICII lmi'T'Idoate OtiMiry 1cr Cllah rc:i cMt1•• cr.c-~nl cnty Allow 1pprao.rn•tety rd.,.. lor 
Pll'tor\11 cnec~ oroert 


--------------~--~---~ ----~--~----------~ 
Friday, December 1, 1989 
The Observer page 7 
Hundreds of Americans leave El Salvador for U.S. 

SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) ­Hundreds of Americans, many waving white f1ags, on Thursday f1ed combat by leftist guerrillas that shattered the peace of their upscale neighborhoods and headed back to the United States. 
The Homan Catholic Church's Legal Aid office meanwhile issued a report concluding that soldiers carried out the Nov. 16 massacre of six Jesuit priests and their two domestic employees. 
Guerrillas fired their first anti-air­craft missile Wednesday but missed the targN -an air forcP A-37 jet fighter­bomber near Zacatecoluca. 25 miles south of San Salvador, a Western mili­tary source reported. 
A rebel statement said tlw insurgents would not use the missiles if govern­ment aircraft stopped bombing, straf­ing and firing rockets. 
Members of the Salvadoran high command have said missiles could sig­nificantly alter the balance of power in the fighting. 
The civil war has gone on 10 years and killed 71,000 people. 
'Tm not coming back," Kate Lewis, a teacher at the American School, said as she carried her 8-month-old baby, Cassandra, down Mirador Street to where a U.S. Embassy official was waiting for her and her husband. William. 

Other Americans f1ashed V-for-victory signs at International Airport and shouted, "We'll be back after Christ­
mas!" In Washington. State Department 
spokeswoman Margaret Tutwiler said "departure is voluntary for all embassy dependents and personnel who are 
scheduled for leave or can be spared. We do not know how many private American residents will take advantage of this opportunity. We are encouraging American dependents and personnel who can be spared to depart." The Lewis home, and 30 or 40 others 
in the exclusive Escalon neighborhood 
in the city's western sector, were taken 
by guerrillas before dawn Wednesday. Hebels of the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front, or FMLN, observed a six-hour truce beginning 6 
a.m. (7 a.m. EST) in their 20-day offen­sive. to permit evacuation of those who wished to leave. 
The neighborhood was quiet Thursday afternoon and remaining residents ventured out to assess dam­age and clear rubble. Soldiers moved cautiously along the streets and drew no fire. The last guerrilla snipers ap­
peared to have pulled out from their nests in sumptuous homes. Most of the rebels appeared to have retreated up nearby San Salvador volcano by dawn. 
Czech travel 
restrictions 


to West lifted 
PRAGUE. Cznrhoslovakia (AP) -The govPrnment said Thurs­day it will tear down the fences on its border with Austria and lift virtually all restrictions on travel to the West. 
The Communist Party held its first talks with the opposition, and members of Parliament proposed the repeal of tough laws used to imprison and fine dissenters. 
The party also said it would announce a new program to in­clude "an objective revision" of its attitude toward the "Prague Spring" reform movement of 1968 and the Soviet-led inva­sion that crushed it. 

Spokesman Josef Hora said the new policies might allow for readmission to the party of half a million people expelled after the invasion. They include Alexander Dubcek. who was Communist Party rhief and led the reforms. 
llora said two Politburo members met for the first time with the opposition Civic Forum group and students, who led 11 days of mass protest that top­pled the old party leadership. 
He said the meeting occurred because "we are just one of the political parties in this country, and we have to find our place." Civic Forum pn~viously had met only with PremiPr Ladislav Adamec and other government officials. 
State radio began broadcast­ing twice-daily programs about Civir Forum artivitiPs. and also featured music by singf'rs who had bf'f'n bamwd for vears. 
Govf'rnment spokpsman Mar­rei Jansen said the lntrrior Ministry would begin the "removal of tPchnical equip­ment" on tlw frontiPr with neu­tral Austria. whirh bristles with barbed wire. watchtowprs and trip wires. 
lie did not say wlwther simi­lar action wou.ld bP taken on the long. fortifiPd border with West Germany. 
Hungary started tearing down its border barriers with Austria in May. and tens of thousands of East Germans f1ed across the frontier to thP West. 







Viewpoint

page 8 Friday, December 1, 1989 
The Obser:ver-_ 

HOW' LON~ wILl IT ]E BEFORE I CAN AFFORD A BMW 1 
=
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regos Cocc•a Roch Iannelli 

Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly Kollen Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager . Al1son Cocks Accent Editor John Btaso Systems Mgr Bernard Brennonkmeyer Photo Editor Eroc Ba1tey OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chrostme G1ll Controller .Anne Londner 

The Observer IS the mdependent newspaper publoshed by the students of the Umverso· ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saont Mary's College It does not necessanly reflect the pol­ICies of the admJnJstrat•on of eother 1nstotutoon The news 1s reported as accurately and ob· JeCtJvely as possoble Unsogned ed•tonals represent the op1n1on of the matonty of the following EdJtor-Jn-ChJef. Managmg Edotor Execut1ve News Edotor. Voewpo1nt Editor. Sports Editor. Accent Ed1tor Photo Ed1tor Samt Mary's Ed1tor Commentanes. letters. and the fnsode Column present the voews of thelf authors Column space 1s available to all members of the communoty and the tree express1on of vary1ng opJn1ons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 
LETTERS 


Palestinian Intifada: comparatively peaceful 
!Jear h"dilor: to the destruction or property, the Middle East conflict. This havP hPnn murdernd by otlwr 
I am writing in respons1\ to burning or forests and crops, elaim strikes me as totally "Arabs" in this process. Prof. Prof. Ethan llaimo's letter on and the slaughtf)ring or ani­'When a population is unacceptable. Granted racism llaimo fails to nwntion that the Palestinian Intifada (The mals. If anything. those acts in all its forms, including anti­tlwsn victims are practically all
under unwelcomed

Observer, Nov. 21 ). In it, he ac­sound like the tactics employed Semitism, is despicable and collaborators with an occupy­cuses Frank Corcoran of writ­by the Israeli authorities foreign occupation, morally indefensible. However, ing pownr, many of tlwm so­ing a "broadside" that contains against the uprising (since Dec. incidents of violence simply because Mr. Corcoran. cially rPjected drug agnnts, n~­"many distortions of the Middln 1987, the Israeli authorities or anyone else for that matter, cruitnd and paid by tlw lsra1~li
against the occupier are 
East 1~onflict and uncon­have had 1068 houses demol­chooses to criticize Israel for authorities to provide tlwm
inevitable.'

scionable assaults on Jews" ished and scaled and 55,000 its policies docs not make him with information on those who (The Observnr, Nov. 13). Even if olive troes uprooted). The main an anti-Semite. Making that have links to this social upris­that were true, something I point. however, is that Prof. ciprocated and recognized claim seems to be a very weak. ing. lin fails to nwntion that a have to disagrne with strongly, Haimo seems to conveniently theirs. Secondly, these "violent" dangerous, and unacceptable family wlwsn son is simply ac­Prof. llaimo's article seems to forget to mention that, instead protestors usc stones as their method of dnflncting criticism. cusnd of participating in tlw In­have its own share of of relying on violence, the main primary weapon in going up tifada ran have tlwir nntirP "distortions" of tlw connirt. tactics of this "social" uprising against one of the region's In fact, it might be possibl1~ to housP dPmolislwd lweausP of J.ik1\ Prof. llaimo, I tlwn~fore are usually non-violent ones most sophisticated military detect a share of "blatant, surh informants with no rl'­lind it essential that some re­such as strikes and abstentions forces. Finally, these victims, undisguised" racial prejudice in eoursP whatsoPvnr to justieP. sponse be made. from tax payments. many who are innocent (in re­Prof. Jlaimo's remarks: "If this 
According to Prof. llaimo, Prof. llaimo states that the gards to throwing stones or is how the Arabs treat each Unfortunatf>ly. and with all Mr. Corcoran portrays tlw In­Intifada has lead to the deaths even public protesting). are other, can you imaging what dul' rPspPrt, it seems to nw that tifada as "non-violent." Prof. of over 60 Jews. That these killed by agents of the Israeli would happen if Israel evPr lost Prof. llaimo is guilty of JH'P­Jlaimo thinks that. instead, the deaths are a direct result of the state whose aetions seem to be its war with the Arabs'?" Prof. risPiy what hn ar.cuses Mr. Cor­Intifada has been, from its be­uprising is questionable. More condoned by the authorities. llaimo is referring here to tlw coran of doing. ginning, an "nx~remely" violent importantly, however, these The other portion of Prof. Palestinian violence against movenHmt for whieh all these deaths cannot be mentioned llaimo's criticism is devoted to collaborators with the lsrcwli violent acts are "normal" aetiv­without taking the Palestinian Mr. Corcoran's alleged authorities. lie states that Omar ,1/-Farisi itins. Firstly. Mr. Corcoran deaths into consideration. Ac­"blatant, undisguised, old fash­more than 100 "Arabs" (might Fisher //all qualified his own statemiHlt by cording to a Chicago-based ioned" anti-Semitic analysis of he not mean Palestinians'?) Nov. 27. /989 saying that the Intifada is a human rights organization, 730 "relatively" non-violent move­Palestinians have been killed Mysterious toxic substances lurk around the corner nwnt. In other words, when during the period of Dec. 9. compared to movements like 1987 to Aug. 31, 1989. Out of !Jear Editor: Where does it go from the sewagn for our water supply. that of the Algerian libl\ration, those deaths, 519 were caused While walking behind Nieuw­drain'? Such a situation presents a for f)Xample, or even the Jewish by gun shots, 51 were beat­land Science Hall at about 1 Will a water treatment plant powerful dilemma for our seizure of Palestine in the ing/non-bullet deaths, 80 were p.m. Monday afternoon, I take care of something like country, but in order to begin 11J40s, the Intifada doesn't gas related, and another 80 are couldn't help noticing a fellow that? to rnrtify a potnntially catas­seem that vioh~nt. under present investigation. in a white lab coat and yellow Is what he did legal'? trophic situation, we must start 
S!~condly, Prof. llaimo makes Furthermore, 177 of those vic­rubber gloves coming out of the The answers to the above at tlw individual level. Now I it sound as if "rnurdnrs on the tims wnre children under the building with a large Erlenmyer questions may perhaps exist. don't know wlwthnr the guy highway," deaths by Molotov age of 16 ( 122 shot, 55 due to flask containing some frighten­but I do not know them. It is with tlw grnl'n stuff violatl'd cocktails and "stones dropped diffnrPnt causes). Needless to ing green fluid. He proceeded to well known, however, that any laws, Pithnr gowrnnwntal on tlwir (Jews) hPads" are daily say, tlw numbers speak for pour the unknown substance many organic solvents (stuff or Pthiral. But I do know that. oecurrm1c1~s. When a popula­thmnsnlves. into thn drain in thfl back lot that dissolves lifl)) ean go unde­had lw intendml to do so, no­tion is undf\r unwekomed for­Wlwn reviewing these statis­and then carefully nwander·ed tected in a water trcatmnnt body was around to stop him. eign occupation. incidents of tics. however. a number of back into the building whnre I plant and go on to eat slowly WhatnvPr tlw casn. we twPd to violence against the occupier points have to be kept in mind. assume his lab is locatnd. and painfully at the G.l. tract. recognize that our watPr supply an\ irwvitabiP. A brid' surwy of Firstly, the Palestinian victims Your initial thoughts might It is also believnd that evl\ry is tlw kPy to lifn on this plarwt, history will eonfirm that that am people whose basic human bn: So what'? Who cares'? No glass of water we drink has and that wn arn rapidly dP­has occurred and will contintw rights are at stake and who big deal. But consider the fol­been in one end and out lhP stroying it. to occur whPtlwr it is in the have a legitimate right to lowing questions: other end of night people pnwi­Gaza Strip or any other n~gion protest against an occupier Why pour the contents in the ously. Currently, no entin1ly /Jatw Vreeland of tlw world. Prof. llaimo men­whose right to exist they have outside drain and not insidn'? pure water reservoirs exist in 1\eenan 1/al/ tions that tlw Intifada has lead recognized, but who has not re-Could thn rontents be toxic'? the U.S. We are simply recycling Nov. 27, 1989 
DOONESBURY 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
SIR! we've 5KJTTW 
I 
TH& P/?£5/I?WT'S CHOPPf5R 1 THJ?a O'CUXI< OFF 7Hl3 '5TARBOARP Bt'AMI 
sta/R&..--FLiGHT{)£f)(! 

5HIP5 aJMIN'IN_ COMIN' ...liN/? tVbHAVe... 7VI.JCHIJOIAJN.' 
HeY,

IN/ OJNTROl-OFFICCR 7HbY MAP& IT, 5/R. i 
7Hf.Y 
IAI&-'R&

R&POI<TS SMOOTHflllf-Y<atj'l.H.'I 7H£Y MA/Je /TI 
0/PN'T THe 
u.s.

ii·~· CRASH! NAVY.' 
\ 
\ 

'Very busy people always find time for everything ... people with immense leisure find time for nothing.' 
Ernest Dimnet (1866-1954) 
'----~----~-­

-------~---------------------------­
Viewpoint
Friday, December 1, 1989 page 9 
LETTERS 

A housewife should not have to justify her career decision 
Dear Editor:  beating SMU by 85 points. But  ters by Kelly-Leigh Keefe (Nov.  
I believe the series of articles  why do traditional family roles  17) and Barbara Moran (Nov.  
concerning the recent lecture by  need justification? A woman  20). Ms. Keefe's letter states  
Phyllis Schlafly deserves a re­ gets married, has children, and  that Mrs. Schlafly " .. .implies  
sponse. The writers of these ar­ decides to be a housewife. For  that the role of the homemaker  
tides would lead you to believe  some reason, I fail to see why  is one of considerable inferior­ 
the Mrs. Schlafly advocates ar­ this needs justification. My  ity ... " She draws this conclusion  
chaic views such as "a women's  mother was a housewife for 20  from Mrs. Schlafly's discussion  
place is in the home" or that  years while my brothers and  of role reversal within marriage  
"women arc only qualified to be  sisters were growing up. Did I  where Mrs. Schlafly said that  
sncretarics, teachers or  ever ask her for "justification?"  the woman should discuss what  
nurses." Having attended the  On the other hand, perhaps  she expects of her fiancee be­ 
lecture, I can attest to the fact  your mother was not a house­ fore marriage. If I were getting  
that Mrs. Schlafly did not en­ wife. Perhaps she had a career.  married, I would certainly want  
dorse any of these ridiculous  Did you ask her for  to know what my fiancee thinks  
positions. In fact. from rnading  "justification?" Of course not,  about subjects such as having  
the recent storins and 'letters to  and to suggest that being a  children and who will care for  
tho editor. I really wonder if the  housewife requires justification  those children. But, according  
authors attended the same lec­ is just as ridiculous as suggest­ to Ms. Keefe's logic, what I  
ture I did. Were the authors re­ ing that a mother who holds  consider to be common sense  
plying to what Mrs. Schlafly  down a job needs to "justify"  means that I and Mrs. Schlafly  
said or rather to what they  her decision. Perhaps the per­ feel " men should be  
wished to hear?  son who titled the article meant  warned... " of their fiancee's  
To start out. I have to ques­ to say that when a husband  opinion. And from that she  
tion the title to the article on  prevents a wife from getting a  concludes that Mrs. Schlafly is  
the front page of The Observer,  job when she wants one or  downgrading the role of the  
Nov. 14. "Schlafly justifies  when a first grader is left with­ homemaker and belittling  
'traditional' rolns for most  out supervision for a hour and  women. Funny, but that doesn't  
women." What does "justifies  a half after school needs justifi­ sound like what Mrs. Schlafly  
traditional roles" mean? You  cation.  said to me.  
justify going 75 arter you get a  I also must question the  Ms. Moran's letter is even  
speeding ticknt. You justify  statements in subsequent let- more misleading. For example,  

Tyson merits praise, not condemnation 
Dear Editor: nings, at the age of 20, under that "maybe an educated 
In the article appearing in the tutelage of D'Amato, Tyson heavyweight champion might The Obsnrver. Nov. 14. "Will captured the most coveted prize make more than $71 million Tyson hit books as hard as in sport-the heavyweight over two years." He later states foes," Assistant Sports Editor championship of the world. that "any business education Gn~g Guffey questions the deci­To set the record straight, let Tyson receives could not help sion of Central State University me point out that in his nine him make more than he makes of Ohio to assist Mike Tyson in successful title defenses, "Iron inside the squared circle." What Parning a collnge degree in Mike" owns victories over seven docs a person's net worth have business and physical educa­men who have, at one time or to do with his desire to become tion. another, held a portion of the educated? Taking it a bit fur­
Hathnr than recognizing the heavyweight title. ther, Tyson would be well-ad­man's situation and accom­Mike Tyson has never been vised to obtain some business plishments. Guffey chooses to convicted of beating either his instruction as there are many slander him. lie elaims that ex-wife Robin Givens or her unscrupulous lawyers and ad­Tyson has madP a" career out mother Huth Roper. Regardless, visers in the boxing community of pounding helpless oppo­Tyson is obviously a monster that would like to get their nents. wives. and mother-in­for ridding himself of this hands on his ring earnings. laws." sweet pair, who were always The article also contains the 
Michael Gerald Tyson was looking out for his best inter­undercurrent that Tyson is born in the Brownsville section ests. perhaps a less-than-intelligent of Brooklyn. New York City on Guffey gives absolutely no man. He is, in fact, a learned .June 30. 1966. lie grew up consideration to the possibility and well-read student of boxing without the guidancn of parents that Mike Tyson really does history which shows that he and fell under the influence of wish to continue his education. has a firm grasp on the envi­tlw streets which swallow up so He insinuates that Tyson's ronment to which he has been many ghetto youth. dropping out of school in sev­exposed. Perhaps he will take 
After being sent to a penal in­enth grade was the extent of to business and physical edu­stitute in upstate .Johnstown, his education. The reality of the cation in the same manner. N.Y., Tyson met the man who situation is that while training Admittedly, the was to become his teacher, fa­with D'Amato in the Catskills, "gynecologist" remark by ther figure and trainer in the Tyson was provided with tu­Tyson while addressing Central art of boxing, Cus D'Amato. tors. State was completely uncalled Despite these humbling begin-Guffey poses the question for and a mistake on his part. 
Vale as the Notre Dame of the East? 
Dear Hditor: 
Professor Alfred rreddoso. in the Nov. 21 issue of The Ob­snrver. suggested that Notre Dame open each school year with a ceremony "like the ones they have at Yale and Brown" which ignores the presence and power of God. lie fears that our tradition of celebrating Mass might "offend or exclude lsomeonel...or make [them[ U.S., where no one would be of our family. Working feel uneasy." "offended" by the profession of together we can accomplish 
It is absurd to downplay the faith. much. But why be ashamed of role of the Church in guiding Rather, we come here our faith? Let us proudly and thn mission of the University. because we are proud of that loudly proclaim the glory of Some, like Freddoso, call for communion, and want to grow our God, as celebrated in the Notre Dame to become a Yale in strength as a Christian com­Eucharist. of the Midwest. Let Yale strive munity. Let the Church be a to be the Notre Dame of the beacon of the University and Notre Dame should continue East. vice versa, showing forth the to start each year on the right 
Notre Dame should be proud treasure stored up in these foot-with the celebration of of its heritage, its professors, walls. the Mass. its students, and its God. Many This is not to say that Notre Dame students and fac­Protestants, Jews, Moslems, Rex J. Rempel ulty members could be at other Buddhists, or anyone else St. Edward's Hall excellent universities in the ought not be welcome members Nov. 21, 1989 Ms. Moran states that she dis­agrees with "Mrs. Schlafly's approval of only certain jobs for women... " Perh'llps, if she had been listening, she would have realized that'Mrs. Schlafly said that the best jobs, not the only jobs, for women who also plan to raise a family are those that allow her the flexibility to do both. On the whole, the views Mrs. Schlafly presented in the lecture are barely recogniz­able from the letter. 

It also seems interesting to me that those who have the time to reinterpret every phrase made by Mrs. Schlafly have not noted the inconsistencies in the statements made by the other speaker who came to campus the same week, Eleanor Smeal. While most of Mrs. Smeal's speech was directed toward shedding her image as a radical and painting her views as com­ing from a concern for basic human rights, I find it hard to understand how the array of figures she presented corre­spond to discrimination against women. Perhaps the reason there are fewer women engi­neers than men engineers is that fewer women are inter­ested in science and math than men. Perhaps the reason there are fewer women corporate ex­ecutives than men is that fewer women are interested in corpo­rate management. On the other hand, perhaps it is because there is discrimination against women. But simply shouting "women don't have equal rights until they're half of everything" doesn't tell me which interpre­tation is correct. 
If you were not able to attend the speeches by Mrs. Schlafly or Mrs. Smeal and are interested in their true positions, I do not ask you to believe my letter or to believe one of the other re­cent letters. The only way to really know what their posi­tions are is to read their books or to attend another lecture by them. 
Michael Sheliga Graduate Student Nov. 27, 1989 


However, he is an athlete who admissions policies of Central does considerable work for the State University, he has no underprivileged and the handi­right to take potshots at and capped. Yes, he makes some cast doubt on the motives of poor decisions which get him Mike Tyson's decision to con­into trouble, but he is young tinue his education. and the product of a tumul­tuous environment. 
Kevin T. Kerns While Guffey may have Keenan Hall grounds for questioning the Nov. 17, 1989 
Free expression must include facts 
Dear Editor: AIDS can be transmitted. An-
The letter, "Engaging in other involuntary way AIDS can deviant sexual behavior only be transmitted occurs when in­spreads AIDS," (The Observer, fants whose mothers have AIDS Nov. 16) from three off-campus are born with this disease. In students conveyed three incor-addition, hemophiliacs ~.;_an in­rect facts about AIDS. First, voluntarily get AIDS if they use the authors claim that any type infected blood plasma or other of sexual intercourse in the ab-blood products. sence of vaginal fluids can One should realize that AIDS spread the AIDS virus. Accord-can not only be spread through ing to "Men, Sex, and AIDS," a homosexual practices but also brochure by the American Red through heterosexual behav­Cross, vaginal fluids can be in-iors. Also, note that the rate of fected with the AIDS virus AIDS infection among hetero­(HIV). As a result, infected sexual people is increasing an­vaginal fluids can enter the pe-nually while the rate of infec­nis and vaginal and anal tis-tion among homosexual and hi-sues. sexual persons is decreasing. 
Second, these students Even though these students asserted that the spread of are entitled to express their AIDS in Africa is due to ram-views, they should make sure pant homosexual practices. Ac-that they have their facts cor­cording to statistics from the rect before they express an World Health Organization opinion, especially about AIDS. (WHO), .most Africans who are infected with the HIV virus have Derrick C. Benn this disease through promiscu­Laure Marie Thibert ous heterosexual (not hom,o­Brian P. Fitzpatrick sexual) practices. Angela Wimmer 
Third, according to these Jennifer Thoene students, blood transfusions Chris Burke are "the only involuntary way" Nov. 20, 1989 
~----~~-----------.----~---------------------------------.---------------------------------------------------------------------------­


COLLEEN CRONIN 
assistant accent editor 

Ilaving a hard time finding the right girt for that special sonwonn? ;\n~ tlw roommates dropping hints that 
tlwy bought you a (:hristmas present? Is your littl11 sistPr calling every otlwr night, begging for sonwthing without an ND logo on it this year'! llern is the solution: the hottest Christmas gifts for the '89 scmson. 
The gift for boys and girls of all ages is still tlw Nintendo artion set. and dose behind is the new Turbo Graphix action set. which is higher priced. but has sharpN graphics. For those already into the Nintendo craze. the company has just come out with an action glove. It works like a joystick, nxcnpt it goc~s ovnr your hand. Works great with cartridges like box­ing. 
Your little stster wouid bn the envy of thn block if she had the new Oopsie Daisy Doll, a dose to life-size baby doll that falls down and criPs. and she ronws with no Notre Danw clotlws. Any littlt~ girl would also love to have tlw lloliday Barbin. This is only the second year for this special-issue doll. which is dad 

in a sparkly holiday drnss and 
n~ady for those Christmas par­
tins with Ken. 
Need anyorw ask about Bat­man'! Tlw toy ston•s had a dif­ficult tinw keeping any Batman paraphernalia in stock over tlw strrnnwr. and it will only get worsc~ during tlw Christmas rush. ;\notlwr big seller in the action rnalm is anything asso­riatnd with the Tnnnagl' Mutant Ninja Turtles or Ghostbustnrs. Tlw Ghostbustnrs toys arn g<'t­ting intcm~sting: proton parks and ghost traps lwad up tlw latest inVI'ntions. 
Guys, for that roomnuttn who is the Eddic~ Van llalen of the air guitar. pick up for him the new Fisher-Price Electronic Guitar. It is supposed to sound prntty dose to the real thing. 
Cabbage Patch Dolls arP past their primn (thank goodrwss) so shoppers. you will not haVI' to contend with frenzied. raving mad mothers trying to gPt a Doll that looks like their daughter. 
One gift that is surP to spice up the dorm room is tlw danc­ing llower. If you have not seen orw of these yet. you arP miss­ing out on orw SJW<:tacular itPm. Put this battPry-opnratPd plastic llmVPr rwar a radio and it darH·ns to tlw turws. No jokP. 

Tlwrn doPs not seem to lw that onP item this Sl'ason that cwPrvorw must have, but a fpw fairly popular ones instead. Of coursP. tlwrP is always tlw lat­nst ND rugby shirt or btrrnpPr stirknr-gifts that no re­spectable Domer pan~nt should 

MUSIC Southside Denny and the Skintones, blues band, 
Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30 p.m., $4 per person. Theodore James Band, Duffy's, 10 p.m. Flying Bohemian Brothers, blues band, McCor­
mick's, 10 p.m. Phoenix. Theodore's, 10 p.m. 
MUSIC Billy "Stix" Nicks & The "N's & Outs," rhythm & blues band. Senior-Alumni Club, 9:30p.m. Southside Denny and the Skintones. blues band, 
Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30p.m., $4 per person. Theodore James Band, Duffy's, 10 p.m. Dance Party, Theodore's, 10 p.m. Corvallis Calling, Club 23, 10 p.m. $1 per person 
ART Museum Shop and Library Book Sale, Snite Mu­seum Atrium, 10 a.m.-4 p.m. 
THEATER "Christopher's Christmas," performed by Patchwork Dance Co., O'Laughlin Auditorium,7p.m. 
MUSIC A Recital of Chamber Music, Annenburg Auditorium, 1 p.m. 
THEATER "Christopher's Christmas," performed by Patchwork Dance Co., O'Laughlin Auditorium, 2 p.m. 
NOTRE DAME Friday "Field of Dreams," Cushing Auditorium, 8 and 10 
p.m., $2 "Heathers," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m., $2. 
Saturday "She's Having a Baby," Cushing Auditorium, 8 p.m. and 1 0 p.m., $2. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST "Prancer" 7 and 9 p.m. "All Dogs Go To Heaven" 7:30 and 9:30p.m. "Gross Anatomy" 7:40p.m. "Shocker," 9:50p.m. "Romero" 7:30 and 9:40p.m. "Staying Together" 7:20 and 9:20p.m. "Steel Magnolias" 7 and 9:30p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST "Little Mermaid" 7 and 9p.m. "Look Who's Talking" 7:40 and 9:45 p.m. "Back to the Future II" 7:30 and 10 p.m. 
FORUM "The Bear" 7:30 and 9:30p.m. "Harlem Nights" 7 and 9:30 p.m. "Shirley Valentine" 7:15 and 9:30p.m. "National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation" 7:45 
and 9:45 p.m. 
TOWN AND COUNTRY "Crimes and Misdemeanors" 7:15 and 9:45p.m. "Sea of Love" 7:10 and 9:40p.m. "Dad" 7 and 9:30p.m. "The Fabulous Baker Boys" 7:10 and 9:40p.m. 






Put Presto under the 

BRIAN GRUNERT DENNIS WOLFE 
accent writers 
And tlwy di again. After I studio alburm
...~ -· 
~w 
and th live al· bums, 
Hush t 
carvnc tlwir nir.he in musical histor tlw only tnw progressivn Hock'n' Boll band. Presto. the band's latest studio ndeasn, nxnmplifins Hush's reh~ntll's. pursuit of musical innovatior highlighted by the productio finesse of HupNt I line. This album is Hush at thnir bPst dynamic. maturc~. uncomprc mising. Each composition unfolds into a unique nx­pression of sound and thou with themes ranging from . ronrmmtal destruction to nv 

0 
3 
page 11 

ln 
1 
j 
-·· 


-......... 
I I I I 
.I I 



tree for Rush fans this Christmas 
nryday relationships. of personal failure, while "Red Presto's optming track, "Show Tide" warns of the prevailing 
Don't Tell." immndiatPiy reveals condition of the environment­tlw band's nnw direction with "This is not a false alarm. this its up-front. syncopated funk is not a test." rhythms and its infectious vocal 
l it hooks. setting tlw stage for tlw The remaining four tunes, rPst of thP album. "Anagram," "Hand Over Fist," 
"lkspond... Vibrate... FPnd­"Available Light," and the title bark... and HPsonate," track "Presto," reaffirm the in­singer/bassistJk.Pyboardist gredients which have become Geddy Lt~P scrnnchns out this ·the nnw flavor of Hush. PnnrgPtic rdrain in "Chain Lightning." OnrP again. strong AftN 15 years of innovation 
IS rhythmic vPrsPs build towards and thousandsofshows, Rush highly mPiodic choruses, an in­has survived the passing of 
as tPrplay pn•valent throughout countless musical trends while thP album. Building on this never compromising their own motif. thP twu !wavier songs on artistic ideals. With its crisp 
tlw album. "Scars" and production, captivating 
"Superconductor" showrasn the rompositions. and singable I, drumming gPnius of Neil Peart. choruses. the new album I In addition to supplying the provides a more accessible 
pulse of Hush. Neil also pro­package sure to please Rush vides tlw lyrics. which am tlw fans old and new alike. Presto strl'ngth of "War Paint." 'Tiw marks another chapter in the Pass." and "HPd Tide." storied history of the band: it is 
"War Paint" discusses the yet another wave of Hush's ,ht, masks people wear and the pit­magical wand. rlVi-falls of vanity and self-delusion. 

"The Pass" reflects the tragedy 'That's nice." 



--------------~-~---­
a e 12 The Observer 
On chicken-flak and other official mistruths 

I spent Sunday reading Paul As I read "Wartime," I the Gospel is all about. Fussell's book, "Wartime," thought of the ways I have been Today, among well-meaning writtlm, says the author, bn­manipulated in my lifetime by Christians, the tail is wagging eausl~ Americans have never phoney-baloney; of the phoney­the dog, because the sheep have understood what the Second baloney I've put up with for the started taking pity on the shep­World War was really like. For sake of keeping peaee in the herd. Isn't this what the cru­the past 50 years. he says, the family; and of the ways I have sades against sin really amount 
to? What else are the zealots trying to do but save God from the pain of being sinned against
Father Robert Griffin 

or blasphemed? This would be noble except for this: God has
letters to a Lonely God 

never asked man to reverse the economy of salvation. Pity, manipulated 
that's as pure as the quality of
Allied War has bePn sanitized mercy, must always fall like the

trusted me with my own special
and romanticized almost b•~­brand of phoney-baloney. gently rain from heaven; butyond roeognition by "the senti­As Christians, you sec, man's arms aren't long enoughrlllmtal. the loony patriotic, the through no fault of our own, to rain on God.

ignorant. and the bloodthirsty." 

we are always at war with the Besides, the alleged blasphe­In the war against llitler, the world, the flesh, and the devil; mers really don't know whatcritics of Vietnam used to say, eonscqucntly. everyone of us they're doing, as God's Son ex­at least we knew what we were 
·-
who accepts Christ as Lord. is plained to I lis only Abba from
lighting for. It ain't necessarily constantly being called to stand the Cross. Why don't they knowso. claims Fussell. G.l. Joe was at moral attention by some what they are doing'! Because,lighting "to get the job over," bush-league captain from the once again, they are like shep­and to defend his buddies. lie minor leagues, who plays by herdless sheep in need of thewasn't lighting for the abstraet some set of in-house rules that divine pity. Deaf, dumb, andeoneepts specified in the official have all the earmarks of blind creatures are always inrhetoric, like freedom. honor chicken-flak, as any G.I. Joe, need of God's help. Nowhere isand holy. or the Ameriean using plainer language, could it written that he needs ourdream. All sueh idealism had show you. It's my impression self-righteous chicken-flak as abmm abandoned, after it was that the best way of staying guerrilla weapon to save His

worn threadbare in the first 

clear of chicken-flak is to keep world.
World War. 

away from the crusaders who I am a loyal, highly tradi­America didn't get into the have turned zealotry into a tional Catholic priest. orthodoxwar to save Europe from stupid word. in creed. and happy to be in llitler's armies. America was Does all this sound mean­love with the Church. Now thatlighting beeause of the attack tempered and curmudgeonly? I'm approaching the sunset and
at Pearl llarbor. and Germany 

Then pay attention, child of evening star of my life, I'm in
was Japan's ally who dedared 

God. The New Testament tells no mood to be jerked around inwar on us. 
us of Jesus and the apostles a conditioned response to theHussia suddenly became our going off in a boat to a place will of the moral minority thatally; and Hussia was no great where they could be by them­happens to be riding high in thefriend to the rights of man or selves. When they finally went saddle. In the kingdom of thethe American drPam. Yet, says ashore. they found that crowds Lonely God. it's no big deal toFussell, our high-minded pro­had followed them. Jesus "took be a loner, if crawling out on apagandists could turn out such pity on them, because they were limb, and hanging there in iso­parodies of the truth as this, like sheep without a shepherd;" lation, is the price you must pay"The entire world will be differ­and so first lie taught them, to avoid standing up to yourent when the war is over. Life and then lie gave them a meal, knees in chicken-flak. 
will be altered in countless miraculously multiplying the Yet, so far as I know, theways, and the cause of free men loaves and fishes from a Lord donsn 't give any Christianwill pnwail." During wartime, schoolboy's lunch in order to permission to be a long-time

notes Fussell, such utteranees 

do so. This lesson of kindliness maverick, heading west towardpassed for profound and en­and love is what the spirit of the Great Divide by himself, asnobling. 
xpress ress~ 
OF NOlANA INCORPORATED ® 


LIGHTHOUSE MALL TRIP
RESUMES TYPESET AND PRINTED 
325 DIXIEWAY NORTH • SOUTH BENO (219) 277·3355 

llniEFII 
31-M 
215 S. 11TH STREET • NILES 

c•IITIAIII.PII IFFBULU AFTEI FIUIJ? ITAlPIEEI
• 
TICKETS: $5,
Guaranteed Lowest Prices! Get 
DECEMBER 
Early Bird Savings.Third year 
ON SALE NOW
9, 1989
running to Cancun. Rio, Bermuda 

IT LAFORTUNE 
and the Bahamas Call Doug at: 

....u.•-ttll INFORMATION
283-1818 

...115::11 DESK 
ROCCO'S HAIRSTYLING FOR 

53 STORES INCLUDING: 
*ANNE KLBN OUTLET *VAN HBJSON FACTORY OUTLET
MEra·~~~MEN

·•­
*BASS SHOE OUTLET *POLO-RALPH lAUREN OUTLET 
*BENETTON *J.H. COLLECTIBLES FACTORY OUTI.ET
' ·. 
I 

*LEATHER MANOR *JONATHON LOGAN FACTDRY OUTLET
531 N. Michigan St. p 



DON'T SEND WATER TO ST. MIKE'S SENDITTO ~S 
NIGHTCLUB 

DJ Mike Jennings spins our last dance party of the semester SATURDAY lO:OOPM -2:00AM 

MEET a> INTERVIE"' WITH 
mM  .)M  Andersen Consulting  
Ar'&T  Procter '& G<Hnble  H.1rns B.u1k '& Trust  
EDS  Gener<ll M1lls  Liberty Mu1u,1l  
Cmcinlhlti Bell  Pepsi Food Systems  Allst,\te  
Southwestern gell  Eli Lilly  Kemper Group  
lTV Steel  B<lxter He,1hhc<1re  AetJM Life '& C1su,1lty  
The Timken Co.  gristoi·Myers  D1sl'Over C1rd  
Motorol"  D<l\'ld ,J. ,Joseph Co.  W H Hr<1dy  

Unitt·d 'lerhnologies Corp. C1rner Corpor<1t1on 
And Many Other Outstanding Employers At Careers '90! 
Careers '90 college recruitnwnt conferenres w1ll g1ve you lilt' opportunity to meet .1nd intervit•w With some of the IMtion's top employers. Over fi.OOO seniors IM\'e <lttended past conferences. wnh fi I% receiving second mterviews <1nd <llmost 40% receivmg ,\t least one job offer AS A DIRECT RESULT OF THEIR CONFERENCE PARTICIPATION. You c"n meet ,\1\d intervwv. with employers who don't recruit ,1t your school. or m,1k~o• <ln 
import<lnt second Impression on those th<lt you do interview w1th on c<lmpus. In either c<1se. just one d<1y at Careers '90 c<ln enh.uKe 
your choice of C<lreer options and signific<lntly mcre<1se your ch.u\Ce 
of getting the job you W<lnt. with the employer you w<lnt. 
ENGINEERING, COMPUTER SCIENCE, MATH, BUSINESS, PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES AND LIBERAL ARTS m<ljors <1re being recruited. 'lo be considered for a Careers '90 invit<ltion. send <11\ upd.1ted resume by December 20, 1989 to Careers '90. PO. Box 1Hfi2. New Haven. CT ()()fi()H (Indicate the conference(s) you'd lik~o• to <lttend). Your interests <lnd credenti<lls will be carefully reviewed by our experienced staff and comp<1red to other seniors in your nMjor discipline. Seniors whose qu<llific<ltions and interests best m.1tch the reqUirements of p<lrticipating Careers '90 employers will be 1nvited to <1ttend. There is ABSOLUTELY NO CHARGE to seniors who <lttend. 
Careers '90 Chicago Chicago, IL February 27 and 28, 1990 
Careers '90 New York New York City, NY Januar 9 and 10, 1990 
--~------,~,~-,~-'----~~~~--.. 
a moral majority of one. If he 
should try, the tunnel vision he 
would suffer from could be 
terminal. Yet, I think it's possi­
ble to stand so close to truth 
that it leaves you blind. 
Error docs have some right to exist, even if Christians wish it were otherwise, unless, of course, it's the fatal error of imagining that you're better or wiser than the rest of men by as much as a whisker. How tempting it might be, after 
·christmas break, to write an Observer article that begins: "While other Domers were in Miami for the Orange Bowl, en­
joying the sun, I was saving the 
street people in hell's kitc.hen or 
storming abortion clinics in 
Salt Lake City." After that. if 
you're still expecting stars in 
your crown, forget it; you had 
your reward the minute you 
started taking bows in public 
and by doing so suddenly leav­
ing your elassmates, who had 
to work during break so they 
can stay in school, artfully be­
dewed with chicken-flak. 
The greatest temptation of all 
may be this: after correctly de­
ciding when error and evil have 
lost their right to exist, you 
make the right decision for the 
wrong reason. For whatever 
you do in the name of justice 
which limits evil and error in 
their right to be harmful. you 
are enfranchised to do as a 
Christian, acting on behalf of 
humanity: saving a child from 
abuse, for example, bncause it 
hurts the child; that's your rea­
son for preventing it from hap­
pening. That's what God ex­
pects you to do, and lie must 
feel well-served when lie's see­
ing you doing it with compas­
sion and courage. But it must 
be a form of hubris to think 
that as a Christian, he's put me 
in charge of reducing the num­
ber of sins for whieh lie died on 
the cross. 

In a century of horror, when even the believers am asking, "Where is God'?" I'm as mueh in the dark as everyone else. Yet, everywhere I look, I sec self­appointed prophets, seribbling messages of doom.on the out· house walls. Still, the dear, heavenly Father says nothing, like 01' Man Hiver. lie just keeps rollin' along. But lie stands by I lis promise not to leave us orphans. for lin has sent us the Holy Spirit. whose bride is the Church. Sadly, most of the ehfcken-flak comes from church members carrying on a c:old war with the members of God's family who seem to be out of touch with divine graee; instead of offering the olive branch which symbolizes peace, these alleged by Christian mili­tants ack-ack Catholics who look like losers with anti-air­craft lire that bounces ofT them 
like brickbats. 
The season of Advent should remind the Church of God's great promises: our waiting is not in vain, and it will not last forever. llis love is everywhere, and goes in all directions. If we meet the enemy. hn may turn out to bn us-meaning we our­selves being hateful and lacking 
in pity. 
In God's army, as in Fussell's wartime army, the snipers you hate most may be the petty tyrants in your own camp, who keep making life miserable by their chicken-flak demands. As a Christian soldier, you eould bn tempted to turn in your scapulars. and give up the war. trusting that in God's army, they don't shoot the desPrters. The truth about that is, "Yes. buddy, they do; as a matter of fact, the Christian army is that only army that shoots its wounded." Chicken-flak can I>P as deadly as napalm. unless you deflect it with a disarming 
smile. 



~---~F~n~d~a~y~,~D~e~ce~m~b~e_r_1~,_1_9_89 ~T~h~e~O~b~s~e~N~e~r----------------------------------------------~p_a~g~e_1_3 
Wregget, stops 34 shots in Flyer victory over Pittsburgh 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
Classifieds prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Hello Sunshine and Mary! Have "MOM" wash your clothes. DIRECT SALES PROS NEEDED 
Uh-hi-ya! Don't starve each other 

SOPHOMORES!! 
$15/duffle. No dry cleaning. 
for leading water treatment to death and by all means don't

NOTICES PERSONALS 
Let's rock around the 
Ironing extra. 289-0144. company.Paid training, salary 
walk out of step! 

Christmas tree at the­
Be good and if you can't be good MRS. COKt:i ;, 233-7009. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL and/or strai!)hl commission. We ORANGE BOWL FLIGHTS 
SOPHOMORE CHRISTMAS 
be careful, Happy 19th Birthday FrankCALL 1-800-7DOMERS offer complete corporate benefits, 

FORMAL 
loveya, 

And no I don't have a present, this WORDPROCESSING 
Chicago -$295insurance. paid vacation, etc. 2 MollyFriday, December 1, 

is it. 272-8827 
Cincinnati -$245sales per week earns $60K, 1st -BBCleveland --$311 year income. For interview or more from 9pm to 1am in South TOP PHILS FROM MIAMI information on the 2nd fastest Dallas -$320 

Dining Hall 
!THIS IS THE FIRST BEER TYPING AVAILABLE growing business in the world, call Denver -$351 287-4082 Tickets are $8 per couple and RELATED INJURY IVE EVRE Paul Hoogerheide at (616)684-Detroit $280 Okay, so it's not quite a bunch of RECIEVED! 2PHIL BUSTS Aon sale NOW in Sophomore7033 or call Rob Schwartz at Louisville -$245>' leavesl, Moe, but here it is finally: MOVE 3PHIL FULL MOONSTEXTBOOKS Philadelphia -$270(616)372-2220. 

Class Office. 

WILL YOU PLEASE GO TO MELISSA TWICE! 4. 2000BOUGHT AND SOLD New Orleans -$200 GRACE'S X-MAS FORMAL WITH 
HO!HO!HO! 
FLUSHES,6CUPS,12STRAWS,APANDORA'S BOOKS LaGuardia -$31 0OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 ME ON THE 9TH? ,NO 2BIG ONES 5THE FLOUNDER CORNER OF N.D. AVE. AND Boston -$328mo. Summer,yr.round,AII 

.Jim Countries. All fields. Free info.
HOWARD IS MIGHTIER THAN THE SWORD 
Pittsburgh -$320 WANT TO TRADE HOUSING FOR 
233-2342 6PHIL YOUR LIPS ARE BLUE­
Los Angeles -$440 TWO IN PALM BEACH CONDO 
Write IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona 

LOTS OF PAPERBACKS IN SO'S THE OCEANI 7THATS JUST
CALL 1-800-7DOMERS FROM DEC. 31 THRU JAN. 3 FOR 
Del Mar CA 92625. 

STOCKI A GLIMPSE 8.1 WILL NOT BE
MOST FLIGHTS 12/29 AND 1/3. 2 QUALITY TICKETS TO ORANGE YOUR PLAY THING 9PHIL DRINK 
SEATS ARE LIMITED. BOWL GAME. (217)431-3126.
ATIENTION-HIRING!

TYPING SPONSOR CLUB 
Government jobs -your area.

PICKUP & DELIVERY MORE MEMORIES: 
STUDENT-MADE NO FOOTBALL BELLYGRAMS, BALLOONS, Jazzy Zaf!! 
$17,840-$69,485. Call 1-602-838­

277-7406 T-SHIRTS WANTED. CALL TOM SINGING TELEGRAMS, 255-FIREMAN PAT,MELISSA GETS 
8885, EXT R6262 THE CAN STUCK ON HER LIP. 

COLLECT AT (602) 948-7610 3355. Don't let your ego make checks 
Yo babes. Pump up the jam. WITH DESCRIPTIOtJ. DEAN ON THE SCAM, HOW'D your body can't cash!!! 
Healy's behind the wheel one THAT HOLE IN THE WALL GET 
ESPECIALLY WANT MIAMI AND HIAG! 
Love,
FOR RENT

more time Saturday night. ORANGE BOWL SHIRTS. WILL THERE? THE PASS YOU USED Fast, Grendle, Taz. Hollywood, and Digit. PAY $12.50/SHIRT. TO BOARD IS THE SAME YOU'L 
Get your shopping done now... SnuffleNEAR N.D. Clean and comfortable USE TO RETURN,THE HAIRIEST 
before its too late! 

NEEDED: Ride to Milwaukee apartments: MAN IN THE WORLD, "IM GONNA 
Take a trip to Chicago on the Washington. D.C. Club Bus 
Fri. Dec. 8. Call Paula • 755 South Bend Ave, efficiency­U NEED CLEAN CLOTHES WINDY CITY SHUTTLE. KILL THAT DAMN DUCKI" DOES 284-4452. $225, 1 bedroom-$265. I NEED$$$. ANYONE IN MIAMI SPEAK 
Tickets $1 0-available at the Bus sign-ups, Thursday Dec. 7
• 607 112 E. Corby, 1 bedroom­284·4194. ENGLISH? "SO WRONG", SOME 
LaFortune Information Desk. 
Flanner Pit -8:00pm"Christmas Concert'' $295. HOT TUB! SOCO&JB,TEQUILA Price -$95/50 ( RV1 way)Notre Dame·s singing and dancing Deposit, references . ADOPTION -Well-educated Challenge your skills in MAMA IS OUT! ensemble. Shenanigans, will be 616-483-9572. couple eager to adopt a baby. 
billiards. Enter the LaFortune Washington, D. C. Club performing their annual Christmas Cheerful home full of books. PRETIY BOY(Yes. you Greg)­
billiard tournament. 

concert Friday, Dec.8. at 7:00p.m. MALE/FEMALE HOUSEMATE Flexible on sharing information 1 think this has gone on long
Entry fee is $5 at the If you see Eileen O'Connorin Washington Hall. Tickets are tree NEEDED FOR NEXT SEMESTER. with birth mother about child. Our enough. Sorry for overreacting. 

Gorch Games Room. 

Sunday (or late Sat. nile!)
and can be picked up at the door. OWN BEDROOM, CLOSE TO adoption agency can provide FOREVER CHILDLESS 
Tournament will be held Wish her a Happy 21st B-day!! 

CAMPUS, HOUSE IN GREAT counseling and references. 
December4-6. CONDITION. 120/MO. +UTIL. Please call collect 309-827-3135 GOING ABROAD NEXT Going toward Dayton. Springfield. 
\ LOST/FOUND } 
PLEASE CALL 289-4621. eves/wknds for profile/photo. SEMESTER?
BILLIARD TOURNAMENT! 
Cincinnati or Columbus Friday Dec. 
James and Hollis. WANT TO SHARE STORAGE? 
BILLIARD TOURNAMENT! 
8? We REALLY need a rideI!! 
LOST: $70 FROM TRUSTCORP CLEAN 3-BDRM HOUSE, 2 BLKS. First Prize-$65.00 pool cue CALL X 2905 Leave Dec. 8, return Dec. 10. Call MACHINE ON 11/18/89. THERE'S FROM NO. $475/MO. 232-3972. 
December 4-6, 
Gia at 5271 or Kathy at 5264 at A VIDEO TAPE OF THE Gorch Games Room, LaFortune 
ROOMMATE WANTED-Female 

TRANSACTION. PLEASE Nice furnished homes for next Entry Fee $5. (24) seeks non-smoker to share ·SMC 
RETURN MONEY TO 222 school year. Close to ND. 277-apartment near NO. Will move in 
KEENAN HALL. NO QUESTIONS 3097. Hey Norm, do you need to see that with you or find place together. 
ASKED AND NO FURTHER man about a dog??? Colleen 3503. 
TROUBLE. 
FOR SALE 

BUFFALO CLUB MEMBERSII! GET READY!! SUPER COMBO IS 
LOST: MEN'S ND RING ON Sign up for X-mas Bus on Tues. COMING TO THEODORE'S 
SUNDAY BETWEEN RED 4-DOOR 1980 HCNDA Dec. 5, 6:30-8:30pm in LaFortune DEC9. 
LAFORTUNE AND STADIUM. 
Lobby. For info call REWARD OFFERED. 1522. 
ACCORD. CALL 3619. 

Tom X3368 or Sue X4179. WORM!!!!!!!!
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! 
WORM I!!!!!!! Found:.Silver watch before AJC, AM/FM STEREO TAPE. 
'86 HONDA ACCORD. 4 DOOR, 

WORM!!!!!!II Thanksgiving in Stu·d Govt office. 
DAYTONA BEAOI ,,,1129' 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TOPH !! 
7 NIGHTS 

THIS WEEKEND WILL BE GREAT WORM!!!!!!!! See secretary on 2nd lloor of CONDITION. $6300. 277-2560. 
STICK, 1 OWNER, TOP 

-A UTILE TURKEY, SOME THIS SATURDAY NIGHT THE LaFortune to claim 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND ,,,lf29' 
5 OR 7 NIGHTS 

LUFFIN' AND AN OVERALL WORM RETURNS XMAS AT DISNEY 
STUPENDOUS TIME!! LOST FILM on Miami trip plane 2 AT airline tix, SB-Orlando 
STEAMBOAT """''1Df. 
2, 5 OR 7 NIGHTS 

LOVE YOU LOTS -Do you want someone who 11/26. lfyou found it please 12/22-12/26, $300 for both 
THE OTHER TURKEY idolizes you for what you do. or call Pete at X1699. Thanks! Please Call 291-1120 
FORT UIUDIRIMLI •rom'1J2' 
7 NIGHTS 
loves you for who you are? 

FOREVER LIVING ALOE VERA
HILTON HEAD ISLAND ,,,1127' 
• 
7 NIGHTS 

products available through Ann JUNIORSTickets to Bahamas for sale. $250 
***** 
Schrock, 255-9904. Existing INTERESTED IN APPLYING international business opportunity FOR SENIOR FORMAL 
for 2 people. Call 287-5162 JoAnn 
CORPUS CHIISn I
WANTED 

MUSTAIIC ISLAND ..,...'99' 
available. CHAIRPERSON MAY PICK For sale: 2 Stones tix for 
5 OR 7 NIGHTS 

!DlOJylliiDlffiOl !ffite.ilclu!
UP APPLICATIONS AT THE SERVICE JOBS! NOW HIRING Tim at x1609. 
FEDERAL, STATE AND CIVIL Indy concert on 12/6. Call 
CALL TOLL FPEE TODAY 
Spring '90

Congratulations STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE. 
THIS AREA! $10,271 TO Veronica Gonzalez THEY MUST BE RETURNED BY 
1·800·!21·5911 
Just Do It!

$84,157. IMMEDIATE OPENINGS! Rolling Stones ticket 
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 1211/89!! CALL 1-315-733-6062 EXT Dec.6 
)84-4407 Jennifer
Buona Fortuna! JUNIORS 
~ 
(especially with those Roman men) #F2382H FOR CURRENT Call Ken, Scott, or Dan at 
x1195 Shane

LISTING. #7666 We love and will miss you! BADIN FRESHMAN "FORMAL" 
The Clan HAPPY HOUR!-T.F.B.A.H.D! 
D<l874 Teff or Ken
'Deoendmg on t:Jreak dates ana lengtn of stay 
PIIILADELPJIIA (AP)­

Ken Wrnggct continued his hot goaltending by making 34 saves as the Philadelphia Flyers completed a home-and-home sweep of the Pittsburgh Penguins with a 4-1 victory Thursday night. 
Wregget was on the verge of his third career shutout until Kevin Stevens scored a power­play goal with 5:02 left in the game. Wregget now has a 4-1 r(~eord and a 1.42 goals­against average in his last five games. lin made 33 saves in a 6-3 victory at Pittsburgh on Tuesday. 
Wregget made 16 saves in the first period to keep the Penguins scoreless while the Flyers got two goals on seven shots. 
Scott Mellanby scored his first goal of tlw season when lw tipped in Mike Bullard's re­bound at 2:03. Two minutes later, Hon Sutter picked -up a loose puck along the left boards. skated across the (TPasP and lmat WPndcll Young to tlw glow side. 
In tlw third period, Mnllanby fed a pass to Illka Sinisalo. who beat Young with a nvn-footPr to tiH' glovp sidP to give the Fly('l's a 3-0 lead with 10:50 IPft. 
Less than threP minutes later, SuttPr found Murray Crav(m, who beat Young with a back­bander from just outsidP the 
('J'('(LSP. 
Tlw loss was tlw Penguins' third straight and fourth in tlwir last flvp ganws. They are 2-40-:{ in tlwir last 45 visits to the Spectrum, winning their last two games in Philadelphia last season after going winless there in 42 games dating back to1974. 
Habs 6, Nordiques 2 
Mike McPhee and Stephane Richer each scored twice and Patrick Hoy won for the first time in seven tries in his native city as the Montreal Canadiens completed a home-and-home sweep of the Quebec Nordiques with a 6-2 victory Thursday night. 
Montreal, which won 5-2 at the Forum on Wednesday night, stunned the Nordiques with three first-period goals, send­ing starting goaltender Mario Brunetta to the bench. 
McPhee intercepted a pass by Michel Goulet to up Russ Courtnall's goal 19 seconds into the game, then beat Brunetta with a wrist shot from the slot at 4:12. Defnnsnman Jean-Jacques Daigneault made it 3-0 at 11:29 with his first NIIL goal since Feb. 23, 1988, when he was with the Philadelphia Flyers. 
Defenseman Brian Fogarty, tlw Nordiques' first draft choice in 1987, scored his first NIIL goal at 10:23 of the sec­ond period. Hieher, who added his 15th goal in the third pe­riod, restored the three-goal margin four minutes later. Lucien DeBlois made it 4-2 at 
15:53. but McPhee put the Canadinns ahead by three goals again only 17 seconds later. 
McPhee has four goals this season. all in the last four games after returning from an abdominal injury. 

Hoy had lost all six regular-. season games he had played in Quebec, his native city and en­tered the game with a lifetime record of 5-9-0 against the Nordiques. 
The loss left the Nordiques with a 6-19-2 record, last in the Adams Division. 
Bruins 5, Sabres 1 
Cam Neely extended his goal­scoring streak to eight games and the Boston Bruins ended a 10-game regular-season win­less streak against the Buffalo Sabres with a 5-1 victory Thursday night in a game be­tween two of the NHL's hottest teams. 
The Bruins had been 0-6-4 in regular-season game against Buffalo over the past two sea­sons, including 0-1-1 this sea­son. 
Boston completed November with a 10-1-1 record, including nine wins in its last 10 games. The loss snapped Buffalo's four-game winning streak and was only the Sabres' second loss in their last 15 games. The Sabres, who dropped into a tie for the Adams Division lead with Montreal, finished 9-2-3 in November. 
The Bruins' frustrations against the Sabres continued in the first period, when they had 15 shots on Buffalo goalie Clint Malarchuk in the first four minutes and 25 in the first pe­riod, but left the ice trailing 1-0 on Christian Ruutu's power­play goal at 5:51. 


--~---~-­
T.he Observer/File Photo 
Keith Robinson. who scored 26 points in Notre Dame's season­opening victory over San Francisco. will try to slam the Irish home to a victory over the Louisville Cardinals this cominq Saturday. 

r page 14 
Classic 
continued from page 20 
and Margan•t Nowlin all SPt or 
tiPd tlwir pPrsonal lwsts. Tlw 
Irish also brokP sdwol rPcords 
f'or most points scon•d in a 
ganw (prPviously I 07) and 
grPatPst margin of victory 
( prPviously (>:~ ). 
Tlw prP-sPason #I l.ady Vols of' TPIIIIPSS('(' ( 1-0) COlllP into tlw .JoycP A. C. C. riding a 17­ganw winning strPak. strPtch­ing hark to thPir national championship season of 1988. Tlw Lady Vols haw nirw rPturn­ing IPttPr winrwrs on their 198CJ rostPr, and in tlwir o1wning ganw thP Lady Vols thumpNI tlw Lady llattPrs of' Stetson 112-:PJ. Tlw Lady Vols fa('(~ WPstPrn Mirhigan this PVPning ))('f'orP thPir Sunday rnatchup with thP Irish. 
KPy playPrs f'or TPnrwssPP an• l>aPdra ChariPs, a (>-3 junior guard who avl'ragPd (J.H points 1wr ganw and (>.7 n·bounds 1wr gamP last yPar. and Carla Md;lwP, a (,-:~ junior forward who avPraged 5.:~ points llPr ganH' and 5.4 rPbounds pnr ganw last yPar. 
Tlw Irish starting lirH'Up, howPvPr, is capahiP and ready. l:orwards Krissi Davis and Co Ill ali ta II ays lw rt. rP n tl' r MargarPt Nowlin. and junior guards KarPn Hobinson and Sara l.iPhsdH•r, arP awarP of' thP task at hand and plan to riS(' to tlu• orrasion. 
Says Hobinson. "TPniiPSSPP is ra 11 kPd #I . and tlwy an' tlw dP­f'prrcling national champions, hut WP ha\·p a rhancP to IIH'Pl thPm on our honw rourt and knock tlwm off'." 
Third-yPar Irish hPad coach Muf'fpt McCraw. who boasts a 41-1'l rar<'('r r<'l'ord at Notre I>anH', statPs that "TPnrwsseP ;..; obviously an PXI'PIIPnt tnam. and WP havp a chanre to show tlwm what wP'vp got. This is a gn•at chanr<' f'or us to Parn na­tional rPspPrt. and is a big stPp on t lw way to g<'tting oursnlws rankPd in tlw Top 20. We just rwPd to play hard and win some big games." 



AP Photo 

Danny Manning of the Los Angeles Clippers returned from a lengthy layoff due to injury on Wednesday night to score 21 points tn a lostng cause against the Milwaukee Bucks. 


FIRST TIME BUYER PROGRAM 
with no payment till March of 1990 
Available only at 

BASNEY HONDA See Salesperson for Details 



~~·~ 
~¥ 


Rob Knarr Bill Neal Troy Young John Noble Debbie Rupert Eric McCombs Jim Mayer Steve Bustos 




JJ~~!t 
Grape & Edison, Mishawaka 256-5550 
The Observer page 15 
Magicreach .500 mark after vic1ory 
OHI.ANDO, Fla. !API -The Orlando Magic won the first battle of the NBA's newest expansion teams as Reggin Theus scored seven straight points and hit 11 fourth­quarter free throws in a 103-96 victory Thursday night ovnr the Minnesota Timberwolves. 
The Magic (7-7) have won five of their last six games. Orlando led 61-59 in the third period when it broke the game open with 14 straight points. 
Theus, who had been held to four points in the first half, hit three jumpers, one a 3-pointer. to lift Orlando to a 75-59 advantage with 2:01 left in the third Sam Vincent contributed six points during the streak. 
Minnesota (3-12) answered by scoring the next eight points. four by Tyronn Corbin, to close the gap to 7 5-6 7 less than a minute into the final quarter, but never came eloser than three points. 
A three-point play by Minnesota's Donald Hoyal cut Orlando's lead to 97-94 with 42 sPconds left in tlw game, but two Theus free throws opened the margin to 99-94 with 30 sn!'onds to play. 
Aftnr two free throws by :vtinnesota's Sidney Lowe made it a three-point game again, 
Theus hit two at the 13-second mark. lie added another pair 
with  less  than  a  second  
remaining.  
Terry Catledge  led  Orlando  

with 25 points, Theus added 24 and Vincent 22. Minnesota was paced by Corbin with 25. 
.Chari. 101Houst. 113, 

Mitchell Wiggins scored 10 of his game-high 24 points in the third period following the ejec­tion of Akeem Olajuwon as the Houston Rockets cruised to a 113-101 victory over the Charlotte Hornets on Thursday night. 
Olajuwon and Charlotte rookie J.H. Heid were kicked out for fighting at 4:44 of the third quarter when they collided during a scramble for a n)bound. The centers ex­changed punches. 
Olajuwon had hit all five of his shots in the third quarter and finished with 21 points and 10 rebounds. Houston was ahead 68-51 when Olajuwon and Reid were ejected. 
Heid departed with 14 points and seven rebounds. 
Wiggins and Otis Thorpe took up the slack as Houston (9-6) extended its lead to as much as 23 points on Thorpe's three-point play for an 89-66 lead with 8:45 left. 
Spurs 93, Mavs 89 
Terry Cummings scored 20 points, including a turnaround jumper with 47 s<~conds 
remaining, as the San Antonio Spurs beat Dallas 93-89 Thursday night and handed Richie Adubato his first loss in two games since replacing John 
MacLeod  as  coach  of  the  
Mavericks.  
Rookie  David Robinson  had  

15 points and 17 rebounds for the Spurs, who turned back a Dallas rally after leading by as many as 12 in the fourth quar­ter. The Mavericks chipped away and pulled to 90-88 with 
4:10 remaining. 
San Antonio outscored Dallas 3-1 in the final four minutes, missing five of six free throws. Dallas could do better from the field. 
The Spurs went on a 23-10 spurt to open the third quarter as the Mavericks made just two field goals in the first eight minutes. That gave the Spurs their biggest lead to that point. 66-55. The teams exchanged baskets the rest of the quarter and San Antonio led 77-67 after three periods. 
Tar Heels upset by Tide; Jayhawks roll 
TUSCALOOSA. Ala. (AP) ­Melvin Cheatum scored 19 of his 23 points in the final nine minutes Thursday night and Alabama pulled away from North Carolina to hand the 12th-ranked Tar Heels their second straight loss, 101-93. 
North Carolina scored the first four points of the second half to grab a 45-44 lead, but Keith Askins hit a 3-pointer with 17:45 remaining and the Crimson Tide {4-0) never trailed again, winning its 18th straight home game. 
The Tar Heels {2-2), who lost Sunday night to Missouri 80-73 in the championship game of the Maui Classic, led only briefly at the beginning of each 
Happy Early Birthday to Julie Kostolansky!!! 
Now that you are the big 21, you are legal to have some fun -but not too much!!! Always remember the family name! 

half in their first meeting with 
Alabama since 1982. 
Cheatum, a 6-foot-8 junior forward, scored only four points in the first half but was the Crimson Tide's big man down the stretch. He hit a bank shot with 9:04 left after the Tar Heels tied the game 61-61 and scored 14 of Alabama's next 20 points to boost the lead to 83­73 with 2:36 to go. 
North Carolina never got within five the rest of the way as Alabama sealed the victory at the free-throw line, making 21 in a row until Keith Askins missed with 51 seconds remain­ing. 
Hick Pox led the Tar Heels with 20 points, while Hubert Davis had 19, Scott Williams 16 and Pete Chilcutt 12. North Carolina committed 23 turnovers to only 13 for Alabama. 
For the Crimson Tid!', who opened the season by winning the San Juan Sunshine Shootout, five players besides Cheatum wf'l'e in double ligun's. Askins had 19 points, Hobert Horry 17, Bryant Lancaster 15 and Marcus Webb and David Benoit 12 each. 
Alabama. playing bPforP a school-record sPventh straight sellout. grabbed its first )Pad at 8-6 when Lancaster hit an 18­foot jumper. However. the Crimson Tide did most of its damage inside. with WPbb 
scoring 10 points in tlw first half. 
After Fox hit a 3-pointer to pot North Carolina ahead 9-8. Alabama outscored the Tar Heels 19-7 over the next nine minutes to build its biggest lead of the first half, 27-16. 
Kansas 87, Idaho 58 
Terry Brown led No. 4 Kansas with 19 points and six rebounds Thursday night and the Jayhawks cruised past Idaho 87-58. 
Brown made four 3-poinl fiPid goals and Kansas (5-01 went 8-for-16 from 3-point rang!'. 
Mark Handall added 17 points for the Jayhawks and Jeff GuddnPr was pPrfcct from 3-point range, 4-for-4. and lin­islwd with 13 points. 
Irish wrestlers head to Las Vegas 
By MIKE CANZONIERO Sports Writer 
Tlw Notre Dame wrestling tt•arn is on the road again this weekt~nd as tlwy lwad ofT to Las Vegas to rornpl'te in tlw Las Vegas Invitational. After easily winning tlw Mirhigan State Invitational. and winning two wnight classns in thP very com­petitive St. Louis Invitational tournamnnt. tlw Irish (ranked 15th in tlw nation by tlw Amateur Wrestling NPws) an~ ofT to tfwir best start ever. 
This Saturday. at tfw Las Vegas Invitational tlw Irish will farl' sonw vnry stiff rornpPtition from sonw of tlw touglwst wrPstlers in the nation. In fart an t~stimated I00 of tlw na­tion's top 200 collegiate wn~stlers will lw participating. Tlw Irish haw fairPd wPII in the past tournanwnts. placing sev­enth in last yPar's Invitational that rontailwd I 0 of tlw top 20 tnams in the country. 
Irish roach I.-ran McCann commented "This will probably be the tougtwst liPid tlwy have ever had. but I would like to think that we have the balance this year to be bnltf~r there than we have in Uw past". 

The Irish will enter the tour­nament with four nationally rankPd wrnstiPrs. S1mior Andy HadPnbaugh is ranked 12th in the nation at 118 pounds will attempt to continue his unde­featPd sPason. Marcus (;owens a sophomore at 126 pounds is ratl'd 16th. 
All-Anwrican Pat Boyd is rankNI second in tlw nation and should do very well this wtwkend. Undefeated junior Mare Gerardi wrestling at 167 is ranked 18th nationally. The rest of the team has looked strong as well this year and should make an impact in the tournament. 
"Every guy on our squad has the ab!.lity ,It> wir~ s.~lllle matrhns McCann sard. We have some people who can place, and some who ran place high and you need that combi­nation in a tournament like this." 
This is the last tournament thP team will enter before be­ginning it's regular season dual meet schedule against Illinois State on Decf~m ber 1Oth at NotrP Dame. The Irish fare fivP opponents on their dual mePt sr.hedule that are rated in the Amateur Wrestling News top 20. On January Rth. the NotrP Dame wrestlers faee tlwir toughest opporwnt-third ratPd Oklahoma. 
Other tough matches will be against sixth ranked Nebraska, eighth ranked Iowa, twelfth ranked Indiana and fourtm~nth ranked Ohio State. 
"Our kids want tough compe­tition and we have to compete 
t.hat w~ty in ~rder, to pn:pa~.e 
for natronals, MeCann sard. I would just as soon go .500 during the season and do the job at nationals." 


AP Photo 
Former New York Coach Rick Pitino will join Digger Phelps, Denny Crum, and Bob Knight on the bench Saturday at the Big Four Classic in the Indianapolis Hoosier Dome. 
Maybe 
continued from page 20 
Tlw loss is also good for a fpw laughs. A Colorado re­portnr calling in to Lou Holtz's WPchwsday prPss eoni'Pnmen and suggested that Notrn I>anw would havn the home field ad­vantage in the Orange Bowl lw­eause the Miami fans would want Colorado to lose. 
Obviously, this reporter wasn't at the Irish's game this past weekend in Miami. Holtz didn't hesitate to reeognize this. 
Another question was posed to lloltz: how do you bring a team back from a loss'? 

Holtz: "I've roached at William and Mary, North Carolina State. and Minnesota. I've got as much experienee as anyone with 20 years eoaehing expnrience at bringing back a losing team." 
And hey, there's good news on the basketball (Remember? dribble a ball up and down a court and try to throw it through a hoop'?) court as well. Lal'honso Ellis is ineligible! 
Now, don't get me wrong...! know that's not good news for Ellis himself, and generally, it's not something you ever want to see happen to any studPnt-ath­lete. 
But (and there's always a but), Fllis' absnnce ean have a vNy positivt~ pffert on tlw Notrf' Dame tnam. 
Witrwss Keith Hobinson, who has bPPn a quite forcP for thf' Irish in tlw past. suddenly ex­plodP for 26 points against San Frandseo. 


Robinson is just one of the guys tlw Irish are counting on to overcome the loss of Ellis. 
And there are other guys who will get playing time, and with it a ehancP to improVf~. These guys are going to pick up the stark in rebounding, and take over some of thl' scoring. Kevin Ellmy is going to contribute. Scott Paddock has returned to the starting lineup. And fresh­man Monty Williams made a signifir.ant contribution in his first college game. 
All this because Ellis is miss­ing the first few games of the season. 
And when Ellis comes bark... 
Being a poor prognosticator, I'll let you finish that sentence for yourself. 
So even though Andre Ware will win the lleisman, and pm>­ple are paying mediocre base­ball players enough money to feed a country, and the Bears are losing it. and Buddy Ryan's alleged bounties didn't include Jimmy Johnson, remember, there are blue skies ahead, ev­erything's corning up roses, and you have to count your bless­ings. 

STEAKS PRIME RIB SEAFOOD 

Hockey 
continued from page 20 
a little bit older beeausP tlwy 
playPd a year or so of junior 
horkey al'tPr high school." 
On o!Tense tlw Mawricks am 
INI by junior forward Mike 
Finnerty's 7 goals and ~ as­
sists. Junior ePnlPr Bill Hooney 
has addPd I 0 points (2 goals, 8 
assistsI. 
Tlu~ sound d11fensivn play nf Mankato is anehorPd by goalies Bill Blake (2-2, 4.4Y GMJ and Glen Prodahl. who sports a sparkling 2.64 goals against average in four games. 
The Irish have a ehanen this weekend to til' last year's win total with a sweep. For that to occur the Irish will need to con­tinue to put up the big offensive numbf'rs that am fast becoming their trademark. The first line of sophomore left wing Lou Zadra(5 goals, 8 assists). center Dave Bankoske (B G. 12 
A) , and senior captain Tim Kuehl (8 G, 12 A) will likely continue to handle most of the load. 
All that the trio has done is 
100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA 
Featuring Friday night seafood bullet and Sunday brunch 
219-259-9925 

J'fq~~#~#~~#~'#~J#~~#~~ 
· Q06t 6PtCI!\L :ij
t Suzanne 's J'{ora{ i!i. 
U: moved two buildings east of old location 
J ~ 18029 State Rd. 23 :g ~ Near Ironwood i!i.ft Delivery 277-2870 *l ~ 10% discounl lo sludenls and slafr tj 
k~iwtd;.,~~~~~~~~~~ 
srorp 2h or Nl)'s 51J goals and datPd by any opporwnt this yc•ar chip in with 32 assists. That and it's not likPiy to happPn calrulates out to almost 40'X, or this \\'PPkPml. A kPV for tlw tlw Irish point total. That's not Irish this WPPkPnd rould lw to say tlw rest or tlw Irish tlwir produrtivity on tlw pmwr squad ran't put tlw purk in tlw play. rwt. Ct~nter Curtis .Janiekl' has Tlw Irish haw srorPd 1:l srorPd 4 goals (including 2 in goals and haw a powPr play pf­last Friday's (>-3 win owr LakP firiPru·y of .245 whiiP Mankato ForPst). FrPshnwn Su•rling Stall' has allowl'd tlwir oppo­Black and and Dan SawyPr IH'nts an (•ITiriPni'Y or .2(lS. haw Pach addPd 10 points. · MikP Curry has srorPd 4 of his 
Tlw Irish dPfPnsP will bP 5 goals on tlw pmwr play and kPyPd by SPnior LarH'P Madson. tlw Mawrirks an• ripl' for him who has lowPrPd his sP<tson to inrrPasP that total. goals against awragP to 4.12. Anotlwr big kPy for Notrl' 
If Madson records tlw win l>anw is tlwir n•adirwss to play. Friday night lw will bPconw tlw " WP haw to lw n~ady to play all-time leader in.1wins for an ," claims SrhafPr." Sonwtinws 
Irish goaliP. Tlw dPfPnsPmPn it SPI'IllS as if not I'VPryorw is will nef'd to providP Madson tlwn~. " with help in ordPr to kePp him from working hard1~r than he . Tlw Irish will try and l'njoy has to. Thl' quartet of Dan tlw 1·omforts of honw whiiP it SawyPr, KPvin Patrick. KPvin lasts. Af'tPr this WPPkPml tlw Markovitz, and Eric Gn~goirP Irish will havP anotlwr honw has had a lot to do with NotrP ganw against FPrris Stall' on Dame's 4.16 u~am goals [)pn•mbPr 1Jth. but tlwn tlwy against average. won't play at tlw .JACC until 
''I'm satisfied with the way .January 26th. the defensemen haw playpd this In bPtwt~l'n thosP two homc> year," says Sehafnr. "They dates tlw Irish will play in orw work hard. Some guys just get of tlw pn•rniPr tournamPnts in out-musded, though." the country, thn Bank Orw 
The Irish haven't b!'en intimi-BadgPr Showdown DPc. 28-21J. 
·~~,_....._....._.._,_..._..,_,~·--·-..-....-.....-....-...-..--..-.........., 
SPRINGTIME IN LONDON: 199~01~~1 I' MARCH 9 ·18 • .. , 1::~ 


,-' · -• \fllrw,, I 
~ Tour includes all of the following for one low cost: ~ 1 
*Round trip AIRFARE: Chicago-London via British Airways. 1 *Round trip TRANSFERS: Airport -Hotel I *8 NIGHTS: The Royal National Hotel--all rooms with private I 
bath & continental breakfast. 1 *7 day London Regional Transport Visitor Travelcard. I *Full Day Guided Tour: Stratford-on-Avon and Oxford I 
*Experienced Guides to Assist with: theatre bookings, shopping, sightseeing I **Total Cost per person: $975.00 
J 
~Call SEVEN SEAS TRAVEL, South Bend, for details~ 232-7995 (call today!) 
._...._..,_...,_....~,_.,_..._.1~1..-1.._..~.._...._..._..._....-,c----­
Notre Dame Communication & Theatre and the Center for Social Concerns present 
LIGHTNING OVER BRADDOCK: 
A RUST BOWL FANTASY 
"A Triumph... one of the few regional movies to successfully and unsentimentally peel off the national smile button." -The YWue voice " .. brisk and bouncy.. a lively, likable spirit."-The New Yorker 
AWARD-WINNING INDEPENDENT FILMMAKER TONY B UBA WILL PRESENT HIS HIGHLY ACCLAIMED FILM ABOUf THE STEEL TOWN OF BRADDOCK, PA SUNDAY DECEMBER 3RD AT 3:00PM IN THE ETS THEATER OF THE CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 
St. Michael"s Ukrainian ~yzantine Catholic Charch 712 E. Lawrence St., Mishawaka 
259-7173 
Come worship with us... Sunday Divine Liturgy 9 AM 

Friday, December 1, 1989 The Observer page 17 

Saint Mary's hoops wins 
By CHRIS BACON Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basket­ball team: led by senior guard .Julie Radke, improved its record to 2-1 with a 64­48 victory over Kalamazoo College Wednesday. 
The Belles struggled in the first half of the game although they maintained the lead throughout and went into halftime with a 25-19 advantage. 
Saint Mary's took control of the game in the second half as Radke sank three 
three-pointers  to  help  the  
team  pull  ahead  by  a  ten  
point  margin  midway  

through thn second half. HadkP finished with 26 points, 5 rebounds and 1 as­sist. 
"We worked hard but didn't produce much offen­sivPly. It was mostly a de­fensive game, rather, espe­cially in the first half," said head coach Marvin Wood. "In the second half, though, we dominated. The defense took them off balance and we executed very well offen­sively at times." 
Also contributing to the winning cause were senior forward Amy Baranko with 8 points and 7 rebounds, sophomore forwards Janet Libbing, who chipped in 8 points, 6 rebounds and 2 assists, and Cathy Restovich, who added 6 points and 4 rebounds, and junior for­ward Linda Garret, who tal­lied 6 points and 4 rebounds. 
The Belles will host the an­nual Saint Mary's Roundball Classic at Angela Athletic Facility. Saint Mary's is the tournament's defending champion. 
Fencers in Northwestern tourney 
ND, Saint Mary's commence dual meet schedule 
By CHRIS FILLIO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's fencing teams will take to the road as they travel to Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois, to begin the 1989-90 dual meet season. 
The Saint Mary's team, under the guidance of Notre Dame assistant coach Mike Marx, has been training with L'Escrime du Lac fencing club. They will face the contingencies from the University of North Carolina and Northwestern. 
"They're getting twice the coaching and three times the amount of fencing time than they did last year," said Marx. ".Junior captain Heather Briggs is a solid fencer, and both Leigh Voyt and Laura Curtin fenced last year." 
North Carolina native 
Christina  Vellucci  will  also  
travel  with  the  team  to  
Evanston.  
The  Notre  Dame  men  will  

face Illinois, UNC, and the Air Force Academy, but the women will have one less match in the absence of an Illinois women's team. 
"Illinois lost two key kids who would normally give them four or five bouts," said Irish head coach Mike DeCicco. "Those bouts will be hard to come by if the match is close like we antic­ipate." 
In a breakdown of the oppo­sition, Air Force presents a very solid and well-disciplined team. Expected to be quite competitive in the foil weapon, they will also have a respectable epee squad and a couple of good individuals in sabre. 
''I'm counting on guys like Jubba Beshin, David Calderhead and Derek Holeman to provide depth to our epee squad," said DeCicco. Epeeists Mark Gugel. Matt Mergen and Paul Vogt will fence in the dual meet as well. 
The foil squad will once again depend on the skills of talented freshman Noel Young and the leadership abilities of four-year monogram winner Joel Clark. While Young will enter his first true dual meet competition, he joins a veteran group featuring Clark, senior Colin Gumbs and junior Phil Leary, a top returner from last year. Sophomore Mike Trisko and freshman Jeff Piper will see foil action in this weekend's meet. 
The Baguer brothers, Ed and Cris, lead the charge of a small but talented sabre squad which includes the added depth of transfer James Taliaferro and senior four-year starter Dan Yu. 
Last year the Irish anticipated close matches, especially against Illinois; DeCicco fore­warned the team that they would not beat them by the same wide margin as in 1987. However, the Irish dispelled the doubting Thomases by blowing the doors off the Illini, 14-2, en route to a sweep of the tour­nament. 
"Illinois doesn't figure to be as competitive this year," said DeCicco, "But if we go in with the attitude that we can't lose, it's going to be a very dose, tough match." 
The Tar Heels remain a mys­tery that the Irish would like to solve. Added just last month to the tournament roster, UNC boasts a respectable program and some top coaching names. The women's squad may see their toughest competition in these matches. 
"At the Penn State Open they posted only mediocre results," said assistant coach Marx. "They have one of the finer young sabre coaches in the na­tion, and a team that is really ready to work." 
Marx also mentioned that the Tar Heels have some of the nicest sweatsuits in the NCAA. 
The Irish will expect nothing but consistency from the top women's trio of Anne Barreda, Kristin Kralicek and Heidi Piper. Joining them will be monogram winners Lynn Kadri, Tara Kelly and Rachel Haugh. 
"We haven't faced extreme competition in the early part of the season," said women's head coach Yves Auriol. ''I'm using this time to tune up the team and give the less experienced players a chance to gain some experience in varsity competi­tion." 
The key for both the men and women will undoubtedly be the added coaching experience of Mike Marx (foil) and Atilla Tass (sabre). DeCicco confesses that he helps with strategy and practice schedules, but that the trench-work is completed by Marx and Tass. 
"They're both very young, love the sport and can actively scrimmage competitively against the kids," said DeCicco. "These are all things that will be big pluses for us this sea­son." 
After this weekend's action, the Irish will resume competi­tion with their second semester schedule. 

the Ileisman ceremony at the quarterbacks Darian Hagan of Downtown Athletic Club in New Colorado and Dee Dowis of Air

Ware
The Observer/File Photo York City, but both will be Force. The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's fencers will begin their 1989-90 dual playing and will not attend. •••
continued from page 20 meet competition this weekend at Northwestern. Schools from North Carolina and Illinois will also be represented at the meet. 
The Main Laundromat 
1518 North Main Street 
Mishawaka 



259-6322 
Hours: 7 30 a.m. -9:00p.m. -7 days a week 
WASHER.§ ONLY 85¢ 
Tuesday: FREE Tide in every wash 
Wednesday: Drop-off -40¢ per pound 
Thursday: Tanning -$3.00 per session 
Pick-up. wash. dry. fold. deliver 
SAME DAY SERVICE 


----~--~-------------~­
Poll predicts that Houston QB Ware will win Heisman 
NJ·:W YOHK (/\Pl -Houston quarterback /\ndrP Warn has pmnrgnd as the clPar front­run rw r for tlw II<' is rna n Trophy, acrording to a nnws­papPr poll. 
Tlw record-bn~aking junior hnld a big lead owr his closest rhallnngers in a US/\ Today survey of I63 IIPisrnan voters this wenk. The winner of coll1~gn football's top award will bn an­nouncnd Saturday at thn Downtown Athletic Club. 
In thP nwantinw, Indiana running back Anthony 
Thompson received the Coach's Choic!~ award given to the sea­son's top Division I player ac­rording to a poll from members of tlw /\mnrican Football Writers Association. 
John Frinsz of Idaho won the Coach's Choice award for Division 1-/\/\ players. Johnny Bailey of Texas /\&1 won for Division II players and Rieky Gales of Simpson College took the Division Ill award. 
In the USA Today poll. Ware received 58 first-place votes and 262 points in the poll, which surveyed 18 percent of thn 918 eligible voters. West Virginia quarterback Major Harris was second in points with 162, five more than Indiana running bark Anthony Thompson. Thompson had more first-placn votes than Harris (31-231, but Harris was the seeond and third choiee on more ballots. 
As in the real lleisman ballot­ing, a player got three points for a first-place vote, two for second and one for third. 
Notre Dame quarterback 

Comaneci location still a mystery 
Gymnast is said to be at U.S. Embassy in Switzerland 
BUDAPEST. Hungary (AP) ­

Nadia Comaneei. the Olympic 
gymnastics champion who dis­
appeared from her native 
Romania in an apparnnt defec­
tion. may be at the U.S. 
Embassy in SwitzPrland. her 
coaeh said Thursday. 
J·:mbassy officials. however. 

denied she was there. adding 
another twist to the mystery 
surrounding the 1976 Olympic 
champion, who crossed the 
border into Hungary in the pre­
dawn hours on Tuesday. 
"/\s far as I know. she is 

probably in the U.S. Embassy in 
Berne," Bela Karolyi told The 
Associated Press in a telephone 
interview from Stuttgart, West 
Germany, where he is coaehing 
an Ameriean women's gymnas­
tics team. 
"She is waiting to get some 

travel papers." said Karolyi, 
who defected to the United 
States in 1981 and beeame a 
citizen in May. 
Michael Korff. a U.S. 

Embassy spokesman in Berne, 
told the AP: "We can 
categorically deny that she is at 
the U.S. Embassy waiting for 
her travel papNs.... I've talkml 
to everybody at the embassy. 
She isn't here. She wasn't 
lwre." 
Swiss Justice Ministry spokesman .loerg Kistler said "wp have had absolutely no hints whatsoever that she has bPPn in SwitzNland." 
Asked about the possibility of a f!)union with his fornwr pupil in Stuttgart. where his team is competing, Karolyi said: "Tiwre is a possibility. but she obviously needs some travel documents." 
On Wednesday from Clarens, Switzerland, Karolyi told the AP he was "ready to help her in any manner if she needs it." 
Karolyi said he had not spo­ken with Comaneei since her flight, although he told the U.S. Gyrnnasties Federation in Indianapolis: "My kid is looking for rne. " 
1: e d !! ration spokesperson Patti /\uer said she had no idea where Comaneci was but said: "/\II indieations dearly point to 
lwr corning to the United Staws. Bela said she will come to tlw UniWd States. She wants 
to eome. When is still unclear. It eould be two wePks or six days. Jt's hPr ITIOVP." 
She said Karolyi was eon­cerned about Comaneei's safety. 
""lip said, 'They will try to rn­raptunl their national pride' ­their national pride being Nadia," /\wlr said. 
"Bela fnels she would be safest in Switzerland, in a neu­tral country. and then eome to the United States via Switzerland, not through any other country. We seem to think he knows what she will do." Auer said. 
Auer quoted Karolyi as saying Comaneci is in danger of bning picked up. 

"If they (Homanian security forces) order the Swiss police to get hold of her, she'd be taken back," he said. 
lie was asked how he knew Comaneei was going to Berne? 
"A person has been calling. The last message said she was going to go to Berne, would call me from Berne and would go to the embassy," he said. "I be­lieve she is there. Switzerland is the only country security forces can't freely run around." 
What are her chances of joining him in Stuttgart? 
"Germany is wil9. Anybody (Homanain forces inculded) can get in and out," he said. 
Auer quoted Karolyi as saying he believes Comaneci left 
fj£ 
l!l::ii~==========================================~ 
NOTRE DAME PARENTS 
HAVE YOUR SON OR DAUGHTER LIVE IN A CONDOMINIUM WHILE AT SCHOOL *1 mile from Notre Dame *New Construction *Tax Abatement *Security Systems *A Profitable Investment *Many Tax Benefits 
call TARIPP DEVELOPMENT CORP. Contact Christopher Matteo 
(219) 232-8256 
Romania because of the pnliti­eal situation. 
"The president of Homania was re-eleeted for five more years. This (the defection), is coming out in open protest against the fact he was rH­elected. Homania is the only eastern Eurpoean country that does not go toward democracy. 
At the age of 14. the diminu­tive Cornaneci eleetrified the world with unprecedented per­feet gymnastics scores and three gold medals at the Montreal Garnes. 
Officials here say she fled to Hungary before dawn Tuesday with six other people and spent the night at a hotel iri the southern town of Szeged. 

JiDi1 

Tony Hice was fourth in the poll with 16 first-place votes and 118 points. Next were quartPr­back Dee Dowis of Air Force, running back Emmitt Smith of Florida and quarterback Darian Hagan of Colorado. 
Dowis received 44 points, while Smith got :n and Hagan 
29. But Hagan had the most first-place votes of the trio with five, two more than Dowis and four more than Smith. 
Last week. polls showed Ware and Thompson running neck and rmck with Hir.e third. But Ware apparnntly surged alwad last Saturday. wlwn lw had a big game while Thompson and Hicn struggl!)d. 
Warn has established seven NCAA rncords this s1mson and has a chanee to set eight morn Saturday in Houston's final game against Hii:e. 
"llis statistics are so over­whelming that it swayed a elose decision his way," said lleisman voter Doug Doughty of the Hoanoke (Va.l Tirnns & World-News. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Observer sports staff will hold a sportswriters' rnnnt­ing Monday at 7:30p.m. in the Obsnrwr office located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Cnnter. 
Free skate will be lwld after Friday's hoekny game against Mankato State. The free skate will begin immedi­ately following the 7:30 p.m. game and last until 11 p.m. 
Irish Outdoors will have a semester planning meeting at 7 
p.m. Tuesday, Dec. 5. in Theodores. Spring brnak ski trip will be discussed. Call 271-9901 for more information. 
lnterhall football nquipment return will take plaee Monday. Dee. 4. Call the NVA for specific return times. 
Saint Mary's College will host the eighth annual Houndball Classic Friday and Saturday. Dee. 1-2. at Angela /\thlntic Facility. Admission to all games is free. 
The Orlando Juice of senior baseball fired manager Gates Brown on Thursday and replaced him with Dyar Millnr. 
Currtis Strange shot a 7-undnr par 65 on Thursday to tie the course record and grab a one-shot lead in the first round of the Australian Open. 
John McEnroe dnfeated Michanl Chang 6-2. 5-7. 6-4 to join Ivan Lend! in thn semifinals of the Masters tnnnis tournament. Lend! downed Aaron Krickstnin 6-1, 6-3 narlinr Thursday. 
Jack Kent Cooke, owner of the National Football League's Washington Hedskins. has filed a $30 million libel and defamation lawsuit against Washingtonian magazine. a writer and a former Cooke employee. 
Homero Blancas and Walter Zembriski fired opening rounds of 64 Thursday to share tlw lead in the $350,000 GTE West Classic. 
The Los Angeles Dodgers, hoping to kep pitcher Fernando Valuenzuela. havn offered him the opportunity to go to arbitration. 

We would like to exf?ress our gratitude to the following organizations for their contributions to Trident's Special Olympics Fundraiser: 
MichaelAngelo's Zahm Hall Continental Express Grace Hall The Commons Alumni Hall Keenan Hall Stanford Hall Flanner Hall Lewis Hall Morrissey Hall Walsh Hall V1deo Warehouse Pasquerilla West Hall 
Our fundraising goal of $2,000 was exceeded by 50%, and we couldn't have done it without you! Thanks! 

Friday, December 1, 1989 
The Observer page 19 
CROSSWORD 





Sunday 
1 p.m. Student chambN music redtal, Annenberg Audi­torium. 
3 p.m. Tony Buba presents his film "Lightning Over Braddock," ETS Thnatrr\ Center for Continuing Educa­tion. 
MENUS 

Notre Dame 
Baked Cod Sesame BPPf Pot Pin ClwesP Stul'fnd Peppnr Tangy Chieknn Sandwieh 

e 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
Saint Mary's 
Baked llam lkd' & Bean Burrito MontPrny Bake I>Pii Bar 
ACROSS 23 You were, to Caesar
1 Brand 24 Delicacies 
5 Bout 28 Kind of crew cut 
10 "And music of 31 Race
--face" Lovelace 32 Dismal, to Dylan 
34 Danish piano player-comic 13 Eye 

14 Dinnerware 35 Upon15 Sequence of 37 Las Vegas area
stages, in ecology 39 Gats 16 Man's marks on 40 French upper the moon house 18 Orient 42 Singspiel 
44 Court divider hometown 45 Adjective for a 20 S.R.O. patron 
19 Elaine's 
12-year -old 47 Patterns

22 Once around the track 49 Caterpillar's hair 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
r=-+77+:::+.:-1 
r:-:-t=+::-:+:=-1 


WILBUR AND WENDEL 
\;lli/A-17 YOJ I,NOf!l-[) DO THil-l FOR M£? Of-1, THAflfk-Yov, 13AC J< STI(GG-T. Yov DON, T J<IJOI,<} HOt<.! If A.PP'( THIS MA-I<ES i-1E. 
BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE 
12.-1 
JAY HOSLER 

50 Sawbones' org. 
51 See 

54 Italian lover 
58"-Rhythm" 59 Bulletin-board 
adjuncts 61 Burr and Hamilton 62 Support for John Sloan 63 And others: Lat. 
abbr. 64 Vetch 65 River into Lake 
Geneva 66 Company symbol 
DOWN 
1 Causeuse 
2 Selves 

3 "Little Things Mean-," 


I will no\aciprim;t;~,e ~"' class. J Wijl no'tac"\" f";OdiV9 \n c /ass_ r w;ll notact prirnih-1.{? in c\~:55. :I will no-'r act 
1954 song 4 Narrated again 5 Road levelers 6 l.o.u. 7 Yen part 8 Micraners, e.g. 9 An anagram for 
staple 10 Willful 11 G a e I i c 

12 Plexus 15 Thesmothete 
17 Highland wrap 21 Arafat, for one 24 Understand 25 External 26Aiert 27 First canonized 
native-born American 28 Sunnyside up 29 Site of Hill A.F .B. 30 Lapel grabbers 

33 Pen name of Charles Henry Smith 
36 Inventors' rights 
38 Introduction to the Constitution 
41 What Marie Antoinette lost 
43 Racetrack tie 
461sland discovered by Roggeveen 
48 Jacob's other name Gen. 32:28 51 Chaucer's ­
of Bath 52 Operatic prince 53 Pahlavi, formerly 54 Kind of corner 55 Ovid's VIII 56 Heroin, in 
slanguage 57 Formerly Christiania 60 Service org. 
GARY LARSON 

Any person interested in the positions of Directoror Choreographer should submita resume to the SUB Performing Arts desk in the SUB office by December 3rd. 





Sports
page 20 Friday, December 1, 1989 
Irish basketball squads face first test of season 
Women battle #1 ·· Men to meet #13 Louisville 
... 
Lady Volunteers 
By DAVE DIETEMAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team faces off against the top-ranked Lady Volunteers of Tennessee this coming Sunday at 2 p.m. in the Joyce ACC. The Irish hope to brmtk the Indiana state record of SHOO fans at a women's col­lege basketball game. 
This past weekend the Irish captured first place in the Cnntral Florida Hotary Classic in Orlando, Florida. Notre Dame moved its early season record to 2-0 by trouncing Libmty 113-35 and host Central Florida H1-61. Sophomore Comalita llaysbert (32 points, five assists, five steals) was named the Hotary Classic MVP, while juniors Karen Hobinson and Sara Liebscher, who scored a combined 51 points in the two games, were named to the All­Classic Team. 
The Irish broke numerous reeords in their trip to Florida, as Sara Liebscher, Deb Fitzgerald, Comalita llaysbert, 

see VOLS I page 14 
Maybe it isn't so bad... 
!ley, maybe it's not so bad after all. I mnan, let's look on the bright side here, lind the silver lining in all these clouds, the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow, and whatever other silly eliches I can think of. 
Notre Damn lost to Miami. Now, that is bad. My dad hates Miami so mueh hn may not root for Notre Theresa Kelly Damn in the Orange Bowl if a Colorado loss gives the Hurricanes Sports Editor the national championship. Most of us would rather have lost to SMU and Navy than Miami. They are just inherently hatable, even without Jimmy Johnson. 

But, if you've gottnn over it, and that's a big if, I know, look at it this way-all the pressure is off. Notre Dame ean go play football now, and not worry about keeping the streak alive or being embarrassed by losing to or beating up on some marshmallow. The Irish are fallible; it's not fun anymore to make your team's top priority beating Notre Damn. 
The pressure is on Colorado now. They deserve the top ranking in the country, and they deserve the national championship if they beat Notre Dame. But they know that won't be easy. They know Notre Dame has big-game nxperinnee, both in games with championship ramilica­tions and in Miami. The Orange Bowl will be fun, good football, with no real hatred involved. 
see MAYBE I page 16 

By STEVE MEGARGEE Associate Sports Editor 

INDIANAPOLIS Keith Hobinson and Tim Singleton certainly aren't getting mueh of a reward for their impressive outings in Tuesday's season­opener. 
Notre Dame, 1-0, faces 13th­ranked Louisville at 2 p.m. Saturday at the third annual Big Four Classic. With center Felton Spencer and point guard LaBradford Smith, the Cardinals have two players who ligure to match up pretty well with Robinson and Singleton. 
The 19th-ranked Fighting Irish take on Louisville in the lirst game of Saturday's college basketball doubleheader at the Indianapolis Hoosier Dome. In the second game, 14th-ranked Indiana meets Kentucky. 
"Spencer's the most improved big man I've seen," said Irish coach Digger Phelps. "LaBradford Smith can post you up and seore inside, yet he's also a great perimeter player." 
Louisville opened the season last week by winning two of three games in the Maui 
Classic. The Cardinals beat 
Chaminade 89-70, lost to lifth­
ranked Missouri 82-79, then 
defeated Villanova 83-69. 
Against Missouri, thn Cardinals 
rallied from a df~licit of more 
than 20 points bnforn losing on 
a last-minute goaltending call. 
In Tuesday's 84-64 Irish win over San Francisco, Hobinson scored a career-high 26 points on 1 0-of-11 shooting, while Singleton dished out nine as­sists and effectively took Dons point guard Kevin Bell out of the offense. 
But Kevin Bell is no LaBradford Smith. A 6-3 junior who set a Cardinal n~cord with 184 assists last year, Smith has come a long way since his lirst collegiate game. Smith opened his career with Louisville by fouling out and allowing Notre Dame's David Hivnrs to burn him for 32 points.
"He's gotten morn mature and has toned his game down," said Louisville assistant coach Jerry Jones. "lie's improved a lot each season." 
Spencer may have improved even more. A 7-foot, 265­
see CLASSIC I page 14 
Ware leads race for Heisman 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Editor 
NEW YORK-Houston quar­terback Andre Ware appears to have the inside track at winning the 1989 Heisman Trophy, fol­lowed by West Virginia quar­terback Major Harris neck­and-neck with Indiana's star running back, Anthony Thompson. 
In Houston's Ware-geared offense, he has completed 329 passes in 527 attempts, to­talling 4,299 yards 44 touch­downs, three less than the NCAA season record. And he has one more game to play. against perennial weakling Rice. With an all but guaran­teed 273 yards against the Owls Saturday, he can break the Division 1-A record for season yardage. 
Against Temple in the Cougars' third game of the sea­son, the 6-2, 210-pound Ware was 30-of-45 with seven touch­downs. He threw for a season­high 517 yards against playing in just the lirst half. He went over 500 yards three times, and has surpassed 400 yards seven times. He leads the nation in total offense. 

Possibly the only strikes against Ware are allegations of stat-padding against inferior opponents and his team being on NCAA probation. Ware has said in the past that the award is for the best player. not the team. 
Banking on the team effort is Notre Dame quarterback Tony Rice. Hice was tabbed a leader in the lleisman race after lead­ing the Irish to the national championship in the Fiesta Bowl in January. eompletcly overshadowing the more highly-touted Harris. Rice's numbers, 884 yards rushing and seven touchdowns on the ground, 68-of-137, nine inter­ceptions, two touchdowns in the air, don't eome anywhere close to Ware's, but his 11-1 record this season and 23 straight wins over the last two seasons can't be matched by any eandidate. 
The loss to Miami last Saturday has all but crushed Hice's hopes, even though some ealled him the frontrunner just before the game. Many ballots were cast before that, but they will probably not be enough to get Hice the trophy. 
Splitting the Indiana vote with Rice is Hoosier star Johnson. With 24 touchdowns this season and 1, 793 yards on 358 carries, he is the best run­ning back of the Ilnisman linal­ists. lie leads the nation in rushing, but a season-ending loss to Purdue may have damp­ened his hopes. Bien's presenen in the field may hurt Thompson's chances, as the two will split the Midwest vote. 
Consistency is on the side of I Iarris, who has 144 carries for 919 yards and has passed 131­of-224 for 1,939 yards and 16 touchdowns. While up-and­down games havn marred all the candidates except Ware. Harris has benn a stnady force all season. 
Both Ware and Florida's Emmitt Smith were invited to 
see WARE I page 17 

NO Hockey faces Mavericks 
By MIKE KAMRADT Sports Writer 
Last year, the Notre Damn hockey team took gnmt strides toward becoming a top Division I hockey team. Although their 10-26-2 record may lead one to wonder how, the 198H-89 sea­son pitted the Irish against some of the best teams in colle­giate hockey. 
The Irish eontinue to l'aec that kind of eompetition this year. They have already beaten Michigan-Dearborn, a lixture in the NCAA playoffs for years, and a tough, physical St. Cloud St. team. This Friday and Saturday the Irish will continue what is proving to be a very successful season when they take on the Mankato State (Minn.) Mavericks at 7:30. 
The Mavericks, a Division III hockey team, compete in the Nortlwrn CollngiatP llock•~Y Association. Mankato StatP sports a 3-3-2 record thus far this season. The strength of thnir team is evidnnt wlwn o1w considers the fact that tlwy took last year's Division Iii champ Wisconsin-Stnvens Point to the limit bdore succumbing in a four-ovPrtimn alTair. 
Although thn Mavericks arP not showing a groat deal of of­fensive prownss ( 4.0 goals/game), thny proV!~ to be a stingy team whnn it eonws to giving up goals. They've only given up 3.41 goals a ganw, which may stand as quite a challenge to the high0pownrnd Notre Damn offense. 
"They're a good hockey team with good Minnesota hockey players," explained Irish coach Ric Schafer, "Most of them arc 
see HOCKEY I page 16 


