
VOL. XXIII NO. 47 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
East German government resigns under fire 
BERLIN (AP) -The East The 44-member cabinet, mans have fled to West Ger­"This move clearly reflects Politburo itself, which met on German government resigned called the Council of Ministers, many through neighboring the mounting pressure for real Tuesday. Tuesday, a victim of mass emi­resigned jointly, said govern­Czechoslovakia since Saturday democracy and freedom," Bri­Leaders "should resign with­gration and pro-democracy ment spokesman Wolfgang -they arrived Tuesday at the tain's Foreign Office said. "The out any delay" to make way for turmoil, and pleas came from Meyer. The council, led by 75-rate of 120 an hour. About government did not have popu­a new Politburo and govern­within the ruling Communist year-old Premier Willi Stoph, 175,000, more than 1 percent lar support. They have recog­ment to carry out reforms, said Party for changes in its top implements policy made by the of the population, have left the nized this by resigning." the newspaper Junge Welt, or­ranks. Communist Party Politburo. country this year by legal or il­Roman Popadiuk, deputy gan of the Communist youth 
More than 100,000 people Stoph and several other min­legal means. White House deputy press sec­organization. 
marched for democracy in live isters are Politburo members. The Council of Ministers will retary, said in Washington: "If Egon Krenz, who replaced his 
East German cities. "We appeal to the citizens remain in office until Parlia­it leads to a process of reform, mentor Erich Honecker, 77, as 
A Parliament committee re­who intend to leave our republic ment elects a new one, Meyer it can be a positive develop­party leader last month, has jected a draft law allowing up to reconsider their step once said, but did not say when that ment.'' said five elderly Politburo to 30 days of travel abroad just more," the council said in a would occur. The party Central Several Communist Party of­members closely associated a day after it was published, statement. "Our socialist fa­Committee was to meet ficials and three small parties with Honecker will be replaced and said unrestricted travel therland needs everyone." Wednesday to consider further allied with the Communists should be pnrmitted. More than 28,000 East Ger-changes urged the resignation of the see RESIGN I page 6 
Dinkins, Wilder win in NYC, Va. 
Associated Press 
DPnHHTat David Dinkins won the election Ttwsday as N.-w York City's first black mayor. 1.. Douglas WildPr of Virginia clung to a 
• More results I page 5 
slPndPr !Pad OVPr H.-publican .1. Marshall 
Coleman and dainwd victory in his bid to 
hPcomP tlw nation's first elPrted black 
govPrnor. 
DPlllO!'I'atic HPp. .lamPs Florio won the New 
.Jprsey goVPrnorship handily on his third try in 
anotlwr fpaturpd contest of off-year elections 
Pnliverwd by rontrovPrsy over race and 
abortion. 
WildPr, tlw grandson of slaves, claimed 
triumph in rPrnarks to jubilant supporters in 
Hirhmond. "Thn people of Virginia have 
spok1•n." lw said. with unofficial vote returns 
showing him just under 7,000 votes ahead and 
only two prerinets untallied. " ...Whatever it 
takPs. that's what I want to win by." 
Countt~rNI Coleman: "The raee is not yet over." lin said that if the final vote total shmVPd WildPr still ah1~ad. "I will congratulate him. but we do not yet know what the outcome will bP." 
In thP sole congressional seat on the ballot, Texas Staw Sen. Craig Washington and Houston City Councilman Anthony Hall qualified for a run-off to fill the unexpired t1~rm of the late Hep. Mickey Leland. 


Students and rectors see need for more education about AIDS 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER 
and KELLEY TUTHILL 
Assistant News Editors 
A survey of 151 Notre Dame students showed that Aquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) education efforts may not have been successful: only 16 percent surveyed said they had received or heard of any AIDS education at the Univer­sity. 
In the survey, 82 percent of those surveyed said that they had not received or heard of any AIDS education on campus and 2 percent were undecided. 
In response to the question, "Do you think you have a right to know if your roommate has AIDS?" 83 percent of those surveyed said yes, 14 percent said no and 3 percent were un­decided. 
Of those surveyed 36 percent said they would live with some­one who has AIDS, 43 percent said they would not and 21 per-


and the University 
Third in a five-part series 
cent were undecided. 
When asked if they knew that the University had AIDS guide­lines 22 percent said yes, 76 percent said no and 2 percent were undecided. Some students who said yes said that they found out about the guidelines in The Observer articles that ran Monday and Tuesday. 
In response to the question, "Should Notre Dame have mandatory AIDS education?" 32 percent said yes, 58 percent said no and 10 percent were undecided. 
When asked if there should be a place on campus to get con­doms, 53 percent surveyed said yes, 35 percent said no and 12 percent were undecided. 
Senior Derrick Benn has formed an AIDS awareness 
group on campus. He said he formed the group after reading about a survey the American College Health Association did on AIDS and college students. 
'The survey results frightened me," said Benn. He said he was on campus this summer and met with Carol Seager, director of University Health Services to discuss the issue. Benn said he sat at a booth at student activities night to see if other people were interested in AIDS education on campus. He said 18-22 people signed up. Next semester Benn said the group plans to hold a panel discussion on AIDS February 7. The format will be a one hour panel discussion and a one hour question/answer session, he said. Senior Laure Thibert, a mem­ber of the group said the the panel will consist of a doctor, a nurse, an AIDS educator, a representative of Campus Min-

see AIDS I page 6 ­

-~ --­
page 2 INSIDE COLUMN 


Song is clever, but meaning is hard to grasp 
We didn't start the fire It was always burning Since the world's been turning We didn't start the 

fire No we didn 't light it R · C · 
But we tried to fight egiS OCCia it · Managing Editor 
Every once in a while, a song comes along that says something about life in the world. Billy Joel's "We Didn't Start the Fire" is such a song. 
The song, off his latest album, "Storm Front," is simply a clever list of people and events from the last 40 years, set to a catchy, fast-paced rhythm. The use of a list of words to describe a period of history is a novel idea, reminiscent of Don McLean's "American Pie," a ballad about music after Buddy Holly's death. 
"We Didn't Start the Fire" is a commen­
tary on history since 1949, but it's not 
altogether clear what Joel means by "We 
didn't start the fire." 
Many of the names in the song refer to 
celebrities, sports figures and politicians. 
Most of the events relate to war and con­
flict. What is Joel trying to say? 
The lyrics of "We Didn't Start the Fire" 
are almost Faulknerian, pouring out in a 
stream of consciousness about America 
after World War II. 
One could guess that the "fire" represents 
war, but not all the people he mentions were 
involved in war. James Dean and Princess 
Grace weren't, though Eisenhower and 
Stalin certainly were. 
It is more likely that Joel is talking about 
life in the Nuclear Age. lie doesn't refer 
directly to the atomic bomb, and he 
mentions the name of Albert Einstein, who 
was largely responsible for cracking the 
atom, in lyrics for the year 1955, when 
Einstein died. 
Baby Boomers, of which Joel is one, are in charge today of all things nuclear, though they are not responsible for the creation of nuelear weapons. 
We didn't start the (lre 
No we didn't light it 
But we tried to fight it 
Maybe Joel is talking about the "fire" of atomic energy, which has exist11d since the beginning of time. Since nations discovered its potential they have fought to gain the power and influence that nuclear capability brings. There's no question that the world changed forever after 1945. Everything that occurs today, socially or politically, is shadowed by the power of the atom. 
For the year 1963, Joel sings, "Pope Paul, 
Malcom X, British Politician Sex/J.F.K. 
blown away, what else do I have to say?" 
What have you said so far? It's not clear 
what this song is about. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Tuesday's Staff  
Production  News  Sports  
Chris Labaree  Sara Marley  Greg Guffey  
Greg Tice  Janice O'Leary  
Viewpoint  
Ad Design  Kim Skiles  
Amy Eckert  Accent  Colleen Stepan  
Val Poletto  Paige A. Smoron  
Meg Callahan  Barbara Bryn  Systems  
Kathleen O'Conner  Alison Cocks  Tim Quinn  
Laura Rossi  Tim Kiefer  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

---------------------------~-~---~ ----~ 
The Observer Wednesday, November 8, 1989 
WEATHER 

Forecasffor noon, Wednesday, November 8. Yesterday's high: 44 Lines show high temperatures. Yesterday's low: 40 Nation's high: 92 (Laredo, TX)50 Nation's low: 13 (Truckee, CA) 
60 
Forecast: 

Cloudy today with a 50 
percent chance of show­
ers. Highs from the mid­
dle to upper 50's. Cloudy 
and colder tonight with a 
30 percent chance of 
light rain; rain possibly 
mixing with light snow to­
ward daybreak. Lows in 
the lower 30's. Mostly 
COLD WARM STATIONARY ©1989 Accu-Weather, Inc cloudy Thursday with a Pressure 

30 percent chance of light rain or snow. Highs
®© 
from the upper 30's to 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
around 40. 

V1a Associated Press GraphicsNet 
WORLD 

Anti-Communist marchers, striking workers The' bodies of three members of a leftist party and clashes between police and protesters vied Tuesday were found Tuesday in western El Salvador, a party with a scaled-down military parade on Red Square as spokesman said. lie accused the military and de­the Soviet Union celebrated the 1917 Bolshevik Revolu­manded that those responsible be handed over for tion. About 5,000 marchers paraded peacefully prosecution. Spokesman Julio Flores of the Social through Moscow to challenge Communist Party au­Christian Popular Movement said-that because of re­thority, while Gorbachev and other leaders celebrated cent attacks, "our leaders have ordered all party in­the 72nd anniversary of the revolution reviewing the stallations closed.... The authorities are threatening traditional show of military force. us, they do not let us operate." 
NATIONAL 

Kitty Dukakis, wife of Mas­
symbol of the University of Illinois since 1926. A pre­sachusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis, was law student at the school began a fight last month to in a hospital intensive care unit Tues­dump the chief, saying it was an insult to American day as doctors tried to diagnose her Indians. Other schools have changed Indian mascots. illness. The governor's spokeswoman including Stanford University. said initial tests were inconclusive, but indicated the ailment was neither A jury acquitted former child television star drug-nor alcohol-related. Mrs. Todd Bridges on Tues. of attempted murder and Dukakis was taken by ambulance attempted voluntary manslaughter charges in the Monday night to Brigham and Women's Hospital after shooting of a man at a "crack" house. llowever, the several days of flu-like symptoms, Ms. Lubber said. Los Angeles Superior Court jurors said they were 
deadlocked on an assault charge, and resumed 
Illinois's two U.S. senators are on opposite deliberations. The former "Diff'rent Strokes" star sides of a dispute over whether a university mascot -(Willis) was accused of shooting eight bullets into the a headdress-bedecked American Indian chief-should head of Kenneth Clay and slashing his throat during a be discarded as offensive. Chief Illiniwek has been a Feb. 2 scuffie. 
INDIANA 

A Lafayette commodities broker, Steven Whaley, Four sons of a Dayton woman have recanted appeared in court Tuesday on federal charges alleging he their allegations that she raped them. The boys, aged 8 bilke~ ~he president of an Indiana farm seed company of through 12, finally confided that they had learned $3 million. The charges allege Whaley promised to place about sexual acts by watching X;rated videotapes, em­an investor's money in the commodities market, but in­bellished upon what they had seen, and accused their stead diverted the money to his own accounts while pre­mother. Bozarth was arrested Oct. 17 and six days senting the investor with fictitious documents showing later was indicted along with her former boyfriend. huge profits, said William Ervin, special agent in charge Richard Tyree on four counts of rape by force. The of the bureau's Indianapolis office. charges were dropped a week after the indictment 
when Ms. Bozarth passed a lie-detector test. 
OF INTEREST MARKET UPDATE ALMANAC On November 8: 
Women United for Justice and Peace Closings for November 7, 1989 
e In 1793: The world-famous campus march called "Take Back the Night" to­
will protest rape and violence against women in a 
Louvre Museum in Paris opened morrow at 8 p.m. in front of O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
its doors to the public. 
Volume in shares 

e In 1923:· Adolf Hitler
ND/SMC Right to Life meets in the Mont­
163.00 Million 
launched his first attempt at gomery Theatre in LaFortune at. 9 p.m. tonight. 
seizing power in Germany with Dorm Representatives should attend. 
a failed coup in Munich that came to be known as the Beer­
A Mexican lunch is being served tomor­
NYSE Index 
Hall Putsch.

row at the Center for Social Concerns from 11:30 
185.74 tf0.97 
e In 1933: President Roo­
a.m. to 1:30 p.m. This lunch will benefit St. 
S&P Composite

Stephen's Guadalupe Society. sevelt created, by executive
334.81 {} 2.20 Observer Of Interests are accepted Sun­Dow Jones Industrials 
order, the Civil Works Adminis­day through Friday in The Observer office. Of 2,597.13 {} 14.96 
tration, designed to create jobs Interests must be received before 1 p.m. in 
for more than 4 million unem­order to appear in the 'next day's paper. Addi­Precious Metals 
ployed. tionally, events must occur before 2 p.m. on Gold 0 $4.70 to $386.20 I oz. 
e In 1950: During the Korean the desired publication date. Otherwise, they 
War, the first jet-plane battle will appear the previous day. Of Interests must Silver 0 2.7¢ to $5.265 I oz. 
took place as U.S. Air Force Lt. be free, one-time events of general interest to 
Russell J. Brown shot down a qualify for publication. North Korean MiG-15. 
Source: AP 

Wednesday, November 8, 1989 The Observer page 3 


Panel discusses campus media 
"I think the University is al­Iogue. Matt Schlapp called the
By BRADLEY GALKO 

News Writer most afraid that we will get University's control over the something on them," said types of advertisements that Wieber. publications may print "totally 
Control over the campus me­preposterous." dia in one form or another by "It's not difficult {to get in­He recommended a collabo­the administration was the formation), it's impossible," rative disregard of such regula­topic of discussion at a media said Gallagher, "because we tions by all the members of the panel discussion sponsored by have no leverage against the panel as a type of civil disobe­SUB Tuesday night. University." dience of the lJnivf\rsity. 
"If something {negative) is "They {administrators) won't written of the University, I have Other problems discussed by tell you anything and they don't no problems with {printing) the panel included the competi­have to tell you anything," said that," said Dave Bruner, view­tion between publications dis­Matthew Gallagher, executive point editor for the Observer, tributed on campus. "There is a news editor of the Observer. "as long as it's well substanti­sense of competition," said "There's no 'freedom of infor­ated." Gallagher, "I don't know if it's mation act."' all bad." He cited competition 
"(The Department oO Public "If we print something un­for personnel as the greatest (Relations and) Information substantiated, they {the Univer­conflict. sure isn't going to tell you any­sity) are going to threaten {the "We face staffing problems," thing that they don't want to Observer)," added Gallagher. added Wieber, " in that we get out," added Mike Wieber, Kathleen Graham, co-editor don't get trained people... managing editor of Scholastic. of Common Sense, also said There are just not enough 
that they had "no restrictions" classes on this campus {that 
"We're not in a privileged po­on articles critical of the Uni­teach journalism)." sition (for information)," versity, "as long as it is well agreed Lanier Emery, co-editor reasoned." "There is also a competition of Common Sense. "It is prob­Another criticism of the Uni­for ideas," added Bruner. lematic," she added, "we can't versity's control over the media The discussion sprang from write investigative journalism came from the editor of Notrfl the Student Government Board on this campus." Dame's newest mll.gazine, Dia-of Trustees Report. 
Man scares joggers at lake 
By KELLEY TUTHILL near the boat house a man man. Security did not locate Assistant News Editor "appeared out of nowhere" and him. growled at them, said Hurley. The women described the 
A man jumped out at three man as a white male, five feet, women who were running The women ran west around nine inches tall and 180 around St. Joseph's Lake Mon-the lake and returned to pounds. He had curly, unkempt day. Siegfried Hall before reporting hair, a chubby face with no fa-
According to Chuck Hurley, the incident to Security, he said. cia! hair and brown eyes. assistant director of Security, Hurley said 15 or 20 minutes the incident occurred at 6:15 had elapsed before the women The women said the man ap­
Offl"cer l"nspecti"On 
p.m. as three Siegfried Hall reported the incident. peared to be mentally handi-The Observer/John Culver "d t . . t A d" t H I S "t capped or d gg d "d H I
res1 en s were Joggmg wes ccor mg o ur ey, ecun y ru e , sm ur ey. Battalion Commander Laura Scotty looks over Pat McClanahan around the lake towards officers walked around the The man was wearing a blue during the Naval ROTC Battalion Commander's Inspection at the Moreau Seminary. lakes looking for the suspect. hooded sweatshirt, a blue 
Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center on Tuesday. The women reported to Secu-The victims also rode in Secu-denim jacket, blue jeans and 
L------------:;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil..lri~ty~t~ha~t~~as~~thlelyllwlelrel.ljolgiiglinlgl.irlit~y·v·eh~i~c~le~s-to·l·oo~k-floir~t~h·e· white tennis shoes. said Hurley. 
.... 
6¢

c~P~Es Phone(219)239-8138 FAX (219) 239-8139 COPIES 6¢ 6¢ 
COPIES COPIES 

6¢ 6¢ 
COPIES COPIES
COPIES •PRINTING •BINDING 

6¢ 6¢ 
COPIES COPIES j 

6¢ 6¢ 
l
COPIES COPIES I
RESUMES •FAX •COURSE PACKETS , ~

6¢ 6¢ 
COPIES COPIES 1 
. 


6¢ 6¢ 
COPIES COPIES 


6¢ 6¢ 
COPIES COPIES




TRANSPARENCIES •COMPUTER DISKS 
6¢ 6¢ 
COPIES COPIES 
6¢ Monday-Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 6¢ 
COPIES COPIES
7:30 AM-11 PM 7:30 AM-7 PM noon-6 PM noon-11 PM 

6¢ 6¢ 
COPIES COPIES 

6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 
COPIFS COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES 
page 4 
Bush recalls election; gives self high grades 
WASHINGTON (;\I') -Presi­dent Bush gave himself high grades Tuesday on the anniver­sary of his el£!ction, vowed to "veto and exhort" until Congress approves his pro­grams and brushed aside criti­cism that he has responded too timidly to the awakening of democracy in Eastern Europe. 
Bush, at a mid-morning news confen1nce, also expressed fresh hope Iran would help win the release of American hostages in Lebanon after a 
U.S. deeision to release $567 
million  in  frozen  assets  to  
Tehran.  
"I  carry  the  fate  of  the  

hostages with me every single day," Bush said. lie said he hoped the release of the Iranian funds would get "underbrush cleared out." 
Separately, the State De­partment said that release of the money was not linked with the hostages in any way. 
Bush opened the Election Day news conference by saying his administration "has come to­gether rapidly with good people and with good ideas and a quiet sens£1 of purpose." 
After nearly 10 months in of­fice, Bush. said, "I enjoy it. I like the challenge." 
Expressing satisfaction with his record in international and national affairs, Bush said he had seen the greatest surge to­ward democracy around the world in at least 40 years. 
Bush brushed aside criticism -most recPntly from former PrnsidPnt Jimmv CartPr -that hn has rnspond!;d too cautiously to changes swnPping tlw SoviPt Union, Poland, llungary, l~ast Germany and PlsPwlwrP. 
''I'd likn to lwar sonw specific suggestions otlwr than triple tlw spPnding on every initia­tive," Bush said. Besidns, hn said, "I don"t lwar complaints coming out of our allies or, in­deed, out of llungary or Poland or Eastnrn EuropP." 
Coinddentally, within an hour of Bush's press confPrenee, the entire East German cabinet re­signed amid demands on the 
Communist Party for reform 
Future Notre Darners of New Orleans 
Ashley Thompsen 

2nd Grade, Holy Name of Mary 
Casey Thompsen 

4th Grade, Holy Name of Mary 
From, 
Leo and Paul 

and change in leadership. 
"Things are happening very fast," Bush said. He said the push toward democracy has "gone too far to irreversibly ... set back" the progress. "I don't think you can contain now the peoples' aspirations for free­dom by going back to totalitar­ianism." 
Bush had originally viewed East Germany's new leader, Egon Krenz, as a hardliner, but said that may have been prema­ture. "Now there are some signs that that's not the case," he said. 
Looking ahead to his meeting next month with Soviet Presi­dent Mikhail Gorbachev, Bush said that he remained con­cerned about the Kremlin's support for the revolutionary government of Nicaragua and that other superpower differ­ences remain. 
He said that to suggest "that everything is hunky-dory simply is not reality, and that's one of the reasons I'm looking for­ward to this visit." 
On the domestic front, Bush accused Congress of delaying action on his proposals for clean-air legislation, an anti­drug program and ethics laws. Democrats have tried to go be­yond Bush's proposals in a number of areas, and Hepubli­eans have resisted. 
Bush urged the press and publie alike to turn up the heat on Congress, telling lawmakers to "take a stPp, get your foot in the water. Do sonwthing." 
Yet, acknowledging that his options were limited, Bush said his strategy would bn to "exhort. What else can I do? Veto and exhort." 
Bush rneently vetoed two spending bills over a provision to expand the use of MPdieaid funds to pay for abortions for poor women in eases of rape or incest. Bush said he would not retreat from his stand. 
"I can't do it, and I'm sorry. I am not going to change that policy," said Bush, who sup­ports federal funding for abor­tion only when the life of the mother is endangered. 
The Observer Wednesday, November 8, 1989 

Members of the Democratic Tt.irnhalle Alliance put up election posters in Windhoek, Namibia Monday. Tues­day marked the start of a five-day, U.N.-supervised election for 72 seats in an assembly that will draft a constitution for Namibia when it becomes independent from South Africa next year. The DTA is one of the political parties contesting the independence elections. 


Namibians vote for independence 
WINDHOEK, Namibia (API ­People waited in 95-degree heat for hours Tuesday to vote in an election that will open the way to independence after 7 4 years of South African rule. Some lines were more than a mile long. 
Namibian radio said a baby was crushed to death and sev­eral people were injured in the northern Ovambo rPgion whPn people surged toward shade, and officials said three children were kill!~d in the explosion of a grnnade they found. 
No serious political violrner was reported on thr first of five days of U.N.-supervisnd voting, despite lingPring animositiPs from a 2:{-year civil war. 
"The behavior of the voting public has been an PxampiP to the rest of the world," said GPrhard Houx, spokesman for the territorial government in­stalled by South Africa. 
Voters are choosing a 72­member assPmbly to write a constitution for the territory, also known as South-West Africa, which is expected to be­come indeprndent next year. 
The main election issue was whether tlw left-leaning South­West Africa People's Organiza­tion, which fought the long guerrilla war, would gl't tlw two-thirds of the sPats neces­sary to write a rhartPr without consulting any of tlw otlwr nirw partins. 
Its main rival is tlw lkmo­rratic Turnhalle Allianre, a multiracial coalition that l'avors a rapitalist economy and was part of a transitional gov­ernment installPd by South Africa. 
"Today wn are finally burying apartlwid colonialism," SWAPO IPadPr Sam Nujoma said in 
Katutura, thn main black 
neighborhood on the ndge of 
Windhoek, th£1 territorial capi­
tal. 
Orw linn of vo!Prs in Katutura stretched for about 1.2 mill's wlwn polls opnrwd, and longPr lines werf" rnportPd l'lsewlwrP. Somn votl'rs waited mow than four hours in tempPraturns that rPaclwd Y5 dPgrPPS FahrPnlwit. 
Karl Mhaha, :~lJ, said lw n•aclwd his voting station in Katutura at 4 a.m., thrPP hours lwforP it opPnPd bP!"aLJSP ··1 could not slPPp. l'w bPPII wait­ing for this day for a long timP." 
TPIPvision rwws sho\\"Pd an Pldl'rly, onP-IPg!{!~d man pulling himsPII' anoss tlw dirt with his hands to rPach a voting booth. 
An Pstimatnd hO JH'I"CPnt or Namibia's 70 1.4SS rPgistPrPd votPrs an~ illitPratP. 
ATTENTION STUDENTS!! ATTENTION STUDENTS!! 
NOTRE DAME'S DEVELOPMENT PHONE CENTER NOW HIRING FOR THE 1990 SPRING SEMESTER 
20-30 Student Positions Available $4.70 Per Hour Flexible evening hours: 6:45-10:45 All interested are invited to an informal Open House/Information Session at the Development Phone Center (southeast corner of Badin Hall) Monday November 13 or Tuesday November 14 From 4:00pm-5:00pm 
PLEASE JOIN US 
For more information, call Carol McClory 239-7938 or Mike Brach 239-7241 

STUDENT ACT I U IllES BOARD: 
Attention Augusta Women-tomorrow night, Thursday, at Center Street Blues Cafe-starts at 9:00 p.m. -special discounts available 
Freshmen: tonight in Haggar Gameroom-China Beach Study Break from 10-11 
Get your ideas for ~~Neighboring Talents~~ going!! 


Dinkins elected first black mayor of New York City 
NEW YORK (;\PJ -David Dinkins won election Tuesday as the first black mayor of the nation's most populous city, propelled by a multiracial coali­tion drawn to his message of social conciliation. 
Dinkins. the Manhattan bor­ough president, dnfnated He­publican Rudolph Giuliani with the support of black, Hispanic and liberal white voters who had nnablPd him to retire three­tPrm incumbnnt Mayor Edward Koch in tlw Snpt. 12 DPmo­cratic primary. 
With 95 pnrcnnt of prncincts rnporting. Dinkins had H64,249 vol!~s. or 51 pnrCf)nt, to Giu­liani's HOH.ll 0 votns, or 48 percent. Consnrvativn and Hight to Life candidates each had about I percent. 
Thn city's three network­owned television stations said thnir survnys of votnrs leaving polling places found nearly unanimous black support for Dinkins -morn than 90 per­cnnt. Dinkins also won nearly a third of thn white voters and more than seven in 10 Hispan­ics. the nxit polls showed. 
Giuliani. hamstrung by the vast Democratic majority in New York, had accepted the tiny Liberal Party's nomination in a bid to fashion a reform­minded "fusion" candidacy that crossed party lines. 
"For a Republican, Rudy did a tremendous showing," said his campaign manager, Peter Powers. 
Giuliani, 45, a former federal prosecutor making his first run for elective office, sharply crit­icized Dinkins throughout the 56-day campaign, calling him a clubhouse politician with ques­tionabln ethical standards. 
Dinkins criticized his oppo­nent's change of views on abor­tion -Giuliani first opposed it, then reversed himself-and his qualifications for office. 
Dinkins also drew the contest as a battle between Democrats and the Hepublican Party, which he blamed for deep fed­eral budget cuts in urban pro­grams. Many prominent Democrats campaigned and advertised for him. 
Mainly, though, the 62-year­old Dinkins stressed his theme of social healing. 
Wilder claims victory in Va. race 
HICHMOND, Va. (AP) ­Democrat L. Douglas Wilder, leading by a whisker over He­publican J. Marshall Coleman as the final votes were eounted, declared victory Tuesday night in his bid to become the na­tion's first elected black gover­nor. 
With all but two of 1,967 precincts in, Wilder had 888,475 votes, or 50 percent, to Coleman's 881,484 votes, also 50 percent. 
"The people of Virginia have spoken," Wilder told a crowd of jubilant supporters. "Whatever it takes, that's what I want to win by." 
Countered Coleman: "The race is not yet over." He said that if the final vote total showed Wilder still ahead, "I will congratulate him, but we do not yet know what the out­come will be." 
Earlier in the evening, Demo­cratic National Chairman Bon Brown claimed victory for Wilder. 
Virginia's first woman attor­ney general, Democrat Mary Sue Terry, easily won re-elec­tion, crushing Hepublican state Sen. Joseph Benedetti by more 
DONATE YOUR BODY TO HELP FIND A CURE. 


FLAG FOOTBALL 
DRIVE TOCUREPARALYSIS 
FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY NOVEMBER 17·19 
$25.00 ENTRY FEE 
PLAYED AT THE LOFTUS 
STUDENTS & STAFF NO HALL RESTRICTIONS 

ALL PARTICIPANTS GETA FREET-SHIRT 
TV's TO THE TEAM WHO RAISES THE MOST$ 
REGISTER AT NVA 


DEADLINE NOVEMBERS 
USF&G NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ORNE TO CURE PARALYSIS. 

AP File Photo 

L. Douglas Wilder is shown before winning a close race in Virgin_ia to become the nation's first elected black governor. 
than a 3-2 margin. of the vote to 46 percent for 
In the other statewide race Dalton. for a four-year term, Democrat Beyer, the pro-choice candi­Donald Beyer Jr. defeated Re-date, appeared to benefit from publican Edwina Dalton, who the Democratic campaign's had been favored to become the portrayal of anti-abortion state's first woman lieutenant forces as reversing women's governor. Beyer had 54 percent rights. 
Florio wins overwhelmingly in NJ gubernatorial election 
NEWAHK, N.J. (AP)-Demo­cratic Hep. James Florio, who lost the closest governor's race in New Jer'sey history eight years ago, breezed to a land­slide victory Tuesday against Republican Hep. James Courter. 
With 4,938 of 5,845 precincts reporting, or 84 percent, Florio garnered 1,150,625 votes, or 63 percent; Courter received 680,007 or 37 percent. 
"I will start work right away on the No. 1 economic issue facing our state -the unfair tax that is car insurance," Flo­rio said in a victory speech. 
"Your vote today tells me you are tired of excuses. You want results," he told supporters in East Brunswick. "Our cam­paign caught the spirit of New Jersey. It's a spirit that seeks New Jersey." 
Earlier, Florio received a congratulatory telephone call from Courter, who delivered a concession speech at his cam­paign headquarters in Whip­pany. 
"Tonight we have fallen short of our goals. Sometimes you just can't grab the golden ring the first time around," Courter told his backers. "Friends, we will be back, and our party will be back." 
Leading Hepublicans tried to view the overwhelming vote against Courter as optimisti­cally as possible. 
"This is not the demise of the Republican party," said Joseph Sullivan, a top GOP fund-raiser and one-time primary candidate for governor. "One of the first obstacles we faced, and probably underestimated, was the outstanding name lead Jim Florio had prior to the elec­tion." 
Former Attorney General Cary Edwards, who lost to Courter in the primary, said many Republicans blame the general election loss on the di­visive, five-way GOP primary. 
"We had a better message, but we never got a chance to deliver it," Edwards said. 




WIN A VCR! 
or dinner gift certificates at: Tippecanoe Place, The Olive Garden, Edwardo's Natural Pizza, Bruno's, Barnaby's Pizza and Parisi's 

\WJ[h]@[l'@~ IJ[TI)® ~~lliliTiJilUil~/ ~Uil~@[f' ©~lliJ[Q) 
(Need not be present to win) 

[}{]©w~ Jllil~ [Q)lliJW ~~ c[J'@W~® ~~©~®it® tro~~ 
*N.D. Senior Office *Lafortune Info. Desk *Haggar College Center "'The Alumni/ Senior Club 

page 6 

AIDS 
continued from page 1 
istry, a person with the AIDS 
virus and a relative of an AIDS 
patient. 
"I'd like to think that people 
like to educate themselves," 
said Thibert. "I think that in­
formation should be made 
much more available by the 
University." 
Thibert said that eondoms 
should be available because 
health should come before a 
moral issue. "People should be 
able to make thnir own moral 
dndsions," she said. 
Berm said that them should 
bn an AIOS support group in 
counsnling so that pt~opln could 
share tlwir P.XpPrinnc:es. 
lin said that many pnople at 
Notn~ DamP havn a "I'm not in 
a high risk group. I don't have 
to worry about it (AIDS)" atti­
tude. Bnnn said that the exprns­
siorJ "silence l'quals dnath" is 
how hP responds to that atti­
tude. 
Senior James Lee, a repre­
snntative from Gays and Les­
bians at ND/SMC (GLND/SMC). 
said that the University could 
educat11 the community through 
the mail. He said that it would 
be better to get the information 
to the students in a morn seen~­
tivn way and target everyone, 
not just gay men. 
In rngards to nducation, "The 
University ought to target the 
general ·population for this 
deadly virus," said Michael 
Leger. a graduate. student and 
a representative from 
GLND/SMC. 
The group receives informa­
tion about AIDS in the mail 
from outside groups such as 
state health organizations, but 
he said they do not receive in­
formation from University 
Health Services. 
Lnger said that he did not know about the University's AIDS guidelines. "The failure to reveal the document is part of the conspiracy of silence that has lasted for the past eight years." 
In regards to the AIDS guide­lines, Leger said he is not sure it is in anyone's best interest to inform llealth Services of their "II IV status." The guidelines state that students should in­form Health Services if they test positively for the virus. 
According to Leger, GI.ND/SMC have two "rap Sf1S­sions" a year on the topic of AIDS. lie said last year a Notre Dame alumnus who is afflicted with AIDS came and spoke to the group. 
Leger and Lee both agreed that the University tries to "skirt sexual issues." "We have to talk about AIDS and we have to talk about condoms," said Leger. 
Father Gerald Lardner, rector of Grace IIall, said that he gen­erally agrees with the AIDS guidelines, but espeeially con­curs with the guidelines' insis­tence on the AIDS individual's right to confidentiality. 
"Thn student's suppos1~d 'right to know' is distracted by the tendency to gossip." Lard­ner said. "Whether a roommatl'! should know in the event of an AIDS case is a medical quos­lion. up to doctors. and should be treated on an individual ba­
sis." 
"A student's right to privacy 
should come first," he said. 
Lardner said that he tries to 
remain aware of AIDS educa­
tion on campus. and tries to see 
that his resident assistants 
(HA's) in Grace are informed of 
similar important issues which 
affect students. 
lie suggested that students 
might pick up information on 
AIDS if it were within easier 
grasp, like at the clerk's desk in 
individual dorms. 
Sister Maureen Minihane, 
rector of Siegfried Hall, said 
that her primary concern would 
be for the individual and their 
well-being. 
She said based on the most 
recent knowledge about AIDS, 
she sees no reason why a stu­
dent could not continue to re­
side in the dorm. "I would walk 
with the person each step of the 
wa~ ... said Minihane. 
Minihane said that stie is 
aware of the most up-to-date 
information on AIDS from out­
side reading. She said that she 
is confident in her staffs ability 
to deal with such a situation. 
Education of students could 
take place in the dorm in the 
form of floor meetings, said 
Minihane. 
If someone in the dorm con­
tracted AIDS. Minihane said 
that she would work through 
Health Services to guarantee 
the best care for the individual. 
She said that the confidentiality 
of the student must be pro­
tected. 
She said that she would also 
meet with the Office of Student 
Affairs and Hesidtmce Life to 
assure tlw best services for the 
student. "I am confident that 
Student Affairs and Hesidence 
Life would support the student 
in whatever way possible." 
Minihane said that she would 
also refer the student to coun­
seling. 
"I would consider what Jesus would do in this situation," said Minihane. She said that people have to look away from the shame and guilt that surrounds the virus and give the individual as much support as possible. 
Senior Cathy Glenn, an RA in Siegfried said, "I wouldn't feel uncomfortable living with a person with AIDS." 
see EDUCATION I page 7 



WALLYBALL ••• 
VOLLEYBALLINARACQUETBALL COURT 
REGISTER AT NVA DEADLINE: NOV. 8 
Call to Peacemaking Week 
November 5-10  
T  H  E  The Heat is On: Environmental Crisis  
HEAT  Wed. Nov. 8-7 p.m. Theodore's with Howard Ris,  
Union of Concerned Scientists  
Environmental Action Club, Recycling Irish  
Institute for International Peace Studies  
t he Union of 1 Concerned  Reflections and Information:  



Mexico Summer Service Trip Thurs. Nov. 9-6:30 p.m. CSC 
CILA 

Take Back The Night for an end to violence against women Thurs. Nov. 9-7 p.m. Information and registration at CSC 
Women United for Justice and Peace 
.,, 
AP Photo 

Several hundred thousand people throng in the streets of downtown Leipzig Monday night in the biggest demonstration for free elections and democratic reforms in this southern East German industrial city to 
date. 


Resign 
continued from page 1 by the end of the week. Two other Politburo members lost their jobs when Krenz took over Oct. 18. The Politburo, which normally has 21 members, also discussed an "action program" Krenz has said would contain sweeping political and eco­nomic reforms. Guenter Krusche, a senior Lutheran Church leader in East Berlin, called for immediate "secret and free elections" for a new government. About 5,000 people marched in East Berlin on Tuesday to demand free elections and chat­
lenge the Communist monopoly on power. Police did not inter­fere with the protesters, who shouted: "All power to the peo­ple!" 
ADN, the official news agency, said 50,000 people ral­lied in Wismal', on the Baltic coast; 35,000-40,000 in Nord­hausen, near Erfurt; and 20,000 in Meiningen. 
Guntram Erdmann of New Forum, the largest opposition group, told the Wismar crowd his organization seeks "peaceful transformation to a democratic state." 
On Monday, 750,000 demon­strators marched, about 500,000 in Leipzig alone. 
East German leaders have been promising democratic re­forms and freer travel in hopes of halting unrest. but the draft law appeared to satisfy no one. 
The panel recommended eliminating the need for exit visas, separating travel regula­tions from emigration rules, clarifying the access to foreign currency for trips abroad, re­considering the 30-day limit and changing grounds on which passports can be refused. 
It also recommended an emergency Parliament session to find ways of persuading citi­zens to remain at home. The latest tide of emigration began early Saturday when departure was permitted through Czechoslovakia, the only coun­try to which East Germans can travel freely. 
-~----~~-----------~------~--­
Wednesday, November 8, 1989 The Observer page 7 
NO receives $422,818in grants for research 
Special to the Observer 
The University of Notre Dame received $422,818 in grants during October for the support of research and various programs. Research funds totaled $422,818, including: 
•$185,000 
from the U.S. Navy for research on the theory of superlattices by John Dow, Freimann professor of physics. 

•$65,000 
from the Upjohn Co. for unrestricted research by Jacob Szmuszkovicz, adjunct professor of chemistry, and Thomas Fehlner, Grace·Rupley professor of chemistry. 

•$24,000 
from Data Trek Corp. for high speed modem research by Ruey-wen Liu, Freimann professor of electrical and computer engineering. 

•Supercomputing 
time from the National Center for Supercomputing for research on the spreading of fire and smoke in spaces by Kwang­Tzu Yang, Hank professor of aerospace and mechanical 


•Awards for facilities and equipment totaled $3,395 from Double G Sales for a Huntsville microsystems 8031 microprocessor package, administered by Daniel Costello, chairman and professor of electrical and computer engineering. 
Awards for instructional programs totaled $71,284, in­cluding: 
•$48,800 from the FoundiF tion for Retirement Research for training for work with the home I e.s s e I d e r l}' 1administered by John Santosj'i' director of the Center f()r 

Education 
continued from page 6 
She said that she does not 
feel that she is educated enough 
about the AIDS virus. Glenn 
said that rectors and RA's 
should be educated to deal with 
AIDS. 

If someone in her section ap­
proached her with an AIDS-re­
lated problem Glenn said she 
would utilize services in the 
community and believes that 
she could point a student in the 
right direction. She also said 
she would discuss the issue 
with Minihane. 
"It is the responsibility of the 
University to teach students to 
protect themselves from a dis­
ease that can kill them,'~ said 
Glenn. 

In general, she said that sex­
ually active college students are 
more concerned about preg­
nancy than AIDS. 
If RA's were educated, Glenn 
said that they could provide 
AIDS education in section 
meetings or in small dorm 
groups. "We must educate stu­
dents. to take the responsibility 
to protect themselves and 
others." 

Elizabeth Pawlicki, assistant 
director of residence life, is re­
sponsible for training residence 


The school offers a central metropolitan location on the East Side of Manhattan, where accessibility to the cultur~l resources of the city is extraordinary. Every student is provided with subsidized housing within a few mmutes walk from campus. In addition to subsidized housing, all Ph.D. candidates receive a stipend 
of $12,700. 

For a~ditional !nformation or materials about the Graduate Program in Molecular Biology, please respond to Ms. Linda Smith/Mol 90: Sloan-Kettering Institute-Cornell University Graduate School of Medical Sciences 1275 York Ave., Box 150, New York, New York 10021 212-639·7655. ' 
MSKCC is committed to equal opportunity through affirmative actions and therefore members of minority groups are encouraged to apply. 
Sloan-Kettering Institute 

Cornell University Graduate School of Medical Sciences 

Graduate Program 

in 


Molecular Biology 
The joint program of graduate studies leading to the Ph.D. degree in molecular biology of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and the Cornell University Graduate School of Medical Sciences offers a unique and challenging opportunity for students whose goal is to be in the forefront of modern molecular biology. The faculty offers graduate research training in a variety of systems, Including bacteria; yeast, drosophila, mammalian cells, and the mouse, on DNA replication and recombination, regulation of RNA synthesis and processing, receptors and their role in cell function and differentiation, and retroviruses, oncogenes, and development. In addition to developing their own research project, students are provided with formal training through a core curriculum, advanced courses and journal clubs. The adjacent campuses of the Sloan Kettering Institute, Cornell University Medical College, and the Rockefeller University form an outstanding scientific, medical, educational and social community. A wide variety of seminars and symposia 
.are scheduled at all three institutions throughout the year that bring many eminent scientists from all over the world into the lecture hall. Such distinguished series as the Harvey Lectures and the Enzyme Club are 
a regular part of our scientific community. 
Ballinger, Dennis-molecular genetics of Drosophila eye 
development. 

Barany, Francis-molecular mechanisms of gene transfer 
in eukaryotic cells, and protein engineering. 
Berns, Kenneth·molecular biology of adeno-assoclated virus replication. 
Besmer, Peter-molecular biology of signal transduction & cell differentiation. 
Brown, Anthony-mechanisms of oncogene action In 
tumorigenesis & function of proto-oncogenes In normal 
development. 

Chao, Moses-regulation of eukaryotic gene expression 
by growth-regulated· cell surface molecules. 
Delotto, Robert-molecular genetics & biochemistry of 
embryonic axis formation In Drosophila melanogaster. 
Dorsett, Dale -modification of eukaryotic gene expres­
sion by transposable elements. Falck-Pedersen, Erik-in vivo & in vitro characterization 
of regulatory elements Involved In eukaryotic transcrip­tion termination & poly (A) site selection. 
Gilboa, Ell-regulation of RNA processing of Moloney murine leukemia virus & the use of retrovlral vectors for human therapy. 
tlackett, Nell-genome structure & rearrangement In 
flalobacterium haloblum. Mechanism of protein-DNA interaction in halophiles. 
flay ward, William -mechanisms of oncogene activation in viral & non-viral tumorigenesis. 
llolioman, William-mechanisms or recombination In 
lower eukaryotes. llurwltz, Jerard-enzymatic mechanisms or DNA replica­tion & RNA splicing in eukaryotic cells. 
Jack, Joseph -genetics & molecular biology of cell type 
determination In Drosophila melanogaster. 
Krug, Robert-control of synthesis, processing & 
translation of viral and eukaryotic mRNAs. Lacy, Elizabeth -molecular & genetic mechanisms of mammalian development In transgenic mice. 
Luatlg, Arthur-replication & stability of chromosomal 
telomeres In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevlslae. Lusky, Monlka-molecular mechanisms & genetics of bovine papilloma virus replication: amodel system lor chromosomal replication In higher eukaryotlc cells. 
Marlans, Kenneth-control & enzymatic mechanisms of DNA replication; mechanisms oltopolsomerases. 
Nell, Norma-structure & function of vacuolar-type 
proton ATPases & vesicle traffic In yeast. O'Donnell, Michael-molecular mechanisms of bacterial & animal viral DNA replication. 
Osley, Mary Ann -regulation of yeast histone gene expression; regulation of nucleosome assembly & function. 
Rabkin, Samuel-enzymatic mechanisms of herpes 
simplex virus DNA replication & recombination. Ravetch, Jeffrey-organization & expression of genes en­coding eukaryotlc cell receptor proteins. 
Rosen, Ora-biochemical & molecular mechanisms of growth factor & polypeptide. 
Shellery, Michael-relationship between chromatin structure, transcription & expression of differentiation­specific genes. 
Shuman, Stewart-biochemical & genetic aspects of transcriptional control using vaccinia virus as amodel system. 
ll'aktman, Paula-molecular genetics of vaccinia virus; viral DNA replication. 
hall staff. She said that resi­dence life is in the process of planning an "in-service session" for the hall staff on AIDS. 
She explained\ that in addition to the "pre-service session" for hall staff that takes place in August, residence life also has "in-service sessions" during the school year. 
According to Pawlicki, the AIDS education session will definitely take place and right now she has been working with Seager to settle on a date and a speaker. 
She said if residence life was notified of a student with AIDS in a residence hall they would make sure the proper services were available to the student and respond to the needs of all concerned. 
Pawlicki said residence life would work with Health Ser­vices and Counseling to provide education and counseling ser­vices. for the patient and for those around him or her. 
Senior Kathy Ryan, an RA in Siegfried, said if she was faced with a resident who tested posi­
tive  for  the  AIDS  virus  she  
would go to the rector.  
"I would  never  handle  this  

(AIDS) on my own," said Ryan. "It's way too serious; it's a fa­tal disease." 
She said that she received a booklet on AIDS during RA ori­entation, but that AIDS was not a topic that was discussed in the sessions. 
Ryan said that education is very important, especially for the graduating seniors going out into "the real world." She said that education in the dorms could be achieved by putting up informational posters that explained what the virus is and how it is con­tracted. 
Senior Gerard Fitzgerald, an RA in Sorin Hall, said that the University should be ready to handle the issue of AIDS as with any other social issue. '.'We can't deny that the problem ex­ists." 
He said if faced with AIDS in the dorm he would first go to Father Stephen Newton, rector of Sorin, and then he would ex­plore resources in the commu­nity. 
Senior Brian Kinsey, a Grace RA, said that if confronted with someone with AIDS, he would try to give any help or counsel­ing they needed. He also said that students need to be better educated about AIDS. 
"The disease is still spreading and many people, including students, are still ignorant of it. With more education, the disease will be slowed," Kinsey said. 
"People think, 'It can't happen to me,' and that's just the wrong attitude, because it can happen to anyone," he said. 
Matt Breslin, student body president, said that although the guidelines are good, it is important for the administra­tion update them. 
"The University could proba­bly also take a more active role in education, but you don't want to create the stigma of paranoia on campus," he said. 
Student Body Vice-President Dave Kinkopf said that student government would be ready to help University Health Services in AIDS education for the stu-, dents. Kinkopf was not aware of any effort by student gov­ernment in the past to educate students about AIDS. 
"We (student government) are planning to give a report on sexuality to the Board of Trustees in the spring/' said Kinkopf. "It will deal in part with sexually-transmitted dis­eases, including AIDS." 
"The first step in that area will be to try to evaluate what problems the campus has, although this may be more dif­ficult in regards to AIDS," Kinkopf said. He added that' student government's Alcohol, Food, and Health Commission is working on the issue. 
DART courses 
closed on 

November 7 
Editor's Note: The Ob­
server publishes only those 
courses which have closed 
the day previous to publica­
tion. This is not a complete 
list of closed courses. 
0015 1502 
0144 1813 
0170 1814 
0397 1817 
0398 2375 
0464 2491 
0470 2645 
0473 2799 
0482 3219 
0954 3256 
1085 3263 
1257 3268 
1264 5009 
1276 5157 
1297 5171 
1357 5253 
1358 5341 
1360 5351 
1362 5474 
1364 5475 
1365 5482 
1366 5485 
1378 5487 
1395 5502 
page 8 The Observer 
-----~~--------­
''As an analyst at Merrill Lynch, I've been given excellent training, alot of responsibility and I'm always exposed to new challenges." 
Jim Karrels, Notre Dame, 1989 Technology/Emerging Growth 
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets invites Notre Dame seniors to attend an informal meeting and reception to discuss opportunities in our 
Corporate Finance Analyst Program 

Thursday, November 9, 1989 La Fortune Student Center Notre Dame Room 8 p.m.-10 p.m. 


~Merrill Lynch 
A tradition of trust. 



Viewpoint
Wednesday, November 8, 1989 page 9 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly 

Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor...... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor.................. Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ....... Shannon Roach Sports Editor...................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ............ Aiison Cocks Accent Editor. . .................. John Blasi Systems Mgr....... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor . . .. . ... Eric Bailey OTS Director... . .........Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor... . ...... Christine Gill Controller... . . .. . . ............... Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­ICies of the admintstrat1on of either Institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob­jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the tollowtng: Editor-tn-Chiet. Manag1ng Ed1tor. Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters. and the lns1de Column present the vtews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the communtty and the free expression of varying opintons on campus, through letters. IS encouraged 
~---. ' ·-~ 
·~-'-...__ 

LETTERS 

ROTC ensures academic disversity 
Ozone crisis clouded with falsehood 
Dear Edit(}r: cent of the undergraduates at Dear Editor: warming. A hurricane is cre­
I am writing in response to Notre Dame are in ROTC, and I am writing in response to ated by a low pressure area Kurt Mills' article (The Ob­quite possibly they do detract Janice O'Leary's column con­that forms near the equator, server, Oct. 31) concerning the form the Peace Studies Pro­cerning the environment (The while an earthquake occurs due University's support of the var­gram. But I find it offensive to Observer, Oct. 31). She writes to motion of the continental ious ROTC programs. In addi­suggest that the military that the depletion of the ozone plates over the earth's molten tion to finding Mr. Mills' article science buildings are filled with layer, caused by excessive use center. The greenhouse effect lacking in factual content, I classes on "napalming villages of chlorofluorocarbons (CFC's), could cause an earthquake if found it steeped in emotion. and committing genocide has caused global warming, the polar ice caps were to melt, 
One of the greatest attributes against the people of the Soviet and she suggests that we find thus shifting the pressure of of any university is the diversi­Union." Let Mr. Mills sit in on alternatives to these materials. the ocean on these plates, but fication of the student body. a class and he might be sur­While it is true that phasing out that was not the case in Cali­Learning as much form each prised to learn that a large training, and discipline. of the use of CFC's will proba­fornia. While the thinning of other as from the professors in part of the ROTC curriculum I agree with Mr. Mills' state­bly be necessary in the near fu­the ozone layer is a serious class is fundamental to the addresses Military Science, ment that "education should be ture, the basis of her argument problem, Ms. O'Leary fails to higher educational process. I History and professional about expanding horizons and is erroneous. present the proper reasons as welcome Mr. Mills' views and specialties such as Navigation. finding out about new things." to why something should be
The main thrust of Ms.
think this freedom of expres­The business of the U.S. mili­Notre Dame has wisely chosen done to solve it. 
O'Leary's column concerns
sion is commendable. But, in­tary is to protect this nation, to adopt that concept by ac­In her column, Ms. O'Leary
global warming caused by de­
herent in that freedom is how it its people, property and ideals. cepting ROTC into its curricu­asserts that the "abuse" of
pletion of the ozone layer.
was achieved: through the de­The armed services count on lum and presenting it as a ca­CFC's needs to be curtailed in
First, she elaims that she
fense of democracy, and the the ROTC programs to produce reer opportunity to those stu­order to prevent future erosion
"couldn't even find enough
American system, through the outstanding young officers who dents interested, assuring of the ozone layer. She identi­
snow in the Catskills to have a
annals of time. will keep the military at a Peace Studies majors a peaceful fies several sources of these
snowball fight" last January.
By interweaving Catholicism, heightened sense of readiness study environment. substances such as air condi­
One warm winter in one small
Christianity, and pacifism, Mr. so that we do not have to fight. William Mountford tioning, aerosol sprays, sol­
area is hardly indicative of a
Mills seriously clouds a lucid ROTC is not about killing and Off-Campus vents, Styrofoam, insulation
global warming trend. More
concept: liberty. Sure,.ten per-violence as much as it is about Nov. 1. 1989 and refrigerants. Thus she
importantly, she fails to realize suggests that we do not buythat ozone layer depletion does
In failing to play hypocrite, Tartuffe succeeded 'brilliantly' aerosol cans and that we "tone 
not significantly to contribute down the air conditioning." She . 
Dear Editor: veneer of piety. he cannot be a Moliere's play is bound to have to global warming. The global says this despite the ban on the I am writing in response to hypocrite. Welch's Tartuffe, wondered at Orgon's being warming trend, or greenhouse use of CFC's as propellants in your review of Tartuffe. Your however,lacked'that veneer. He duped so thoroughly by a effect, is calUsed by excessive spray cans in the United States reviewer had one reservation was pure slime. scoundrel he picks up off the carbon dioxide in the atmo­which has existed for several about the "nearly flawless" But was Welch really trying street. The implausibility makes sphere produced by burning years. (This ban does not applyperformance, namely, "the to play a hypocrite? Was he one suspect a serious flaw in hydrocarbons and deforesta­to those used by the military).
characterization of the main trying to play a person at all? the play. Welch's Tartuffe. tion. 
character of Tartuffe himself." Or was he playing a personifi­however, suggests that the per­In ner article, Ms. O'Leary Also, she neglects the fact She writes "it seems ludicrous cation? I suspect, on reflection, ception of implausibility is a never mentions the main prob­that the CFC used in air that anyone could be seduced that it was the latter. If so, it flaw in the playgoer and not in lem associated with the de­conditioners and refrigerators, by this Tartuffe." I want to was a brilliant performance. the play. That Orgon should fail struction of the ozone layer, Freon, does not escape into the thank the reviewer for prepar­Welch's TaFtuffe flashed to see through a hypocritical namely skin cancer. The ozone atmosphere at any setting. It is ing me to pay closer attention around the stage sprite, like, a scoundrel is implausible; but layer blocks out a large portion simply evaporated and to this anomaly than I might devil from the underworld, a that he should fail to recognize of the ultrav1iolet light from the condensed repeatedly and is otherwise have done. I left vice given flesh-but not so Hypocrisy in his own household sun which causes sunburns never released from the system Washington Hall and was well much flesh as ever to become a is highly plausible. The fact of and, over a period of time, skin unless it is released due to a on my way home before it oe­person and cease being a per­the matter is that we rarely cancer. Should the ozone layer leak or to be changed. curred to me that this "flaw" sonification. He is the sort of recognize Hypocrisy in our own be destroyed, the amount of The greenhouse effect and may well have been a master creature Lucifer calls up in households, academic or these ultraviolet rays reaching ozone depletion are both seri­stroke. Marlowe's "Doctor Faustus", otherwise-not even when it is the earth would increase dras­ous problems which, along with 
A hypocrite has a many­another marcher in the parade paraded in full view before us tically, presenting a serious their remedies, need to be layered persona. If Tartuffe. of the Seven Deadly Sins. Not on a stage. health risk to both the human brought to light. played by Gerald Welch, is a simply a nasty houseguest, he is Patti Sayre and animal population. hypocrite, he should be pious a projection of a moral defeet Philosophy Department Also, she seems to state that John P. O'Brien and slick on the outside, slimy pervading a household. Saint Mary's College the recent earthquake and hur­Grace Hall on the inside. Without at least a Anyone who has read or seen Oct. 16, 1989 ricane were caused by global Nov. 1. 1989 
DOONESBURY 
HI, 8/f,/.,Y 81JTTS! /A/HATBOY! 50RRY AF& YOU {J()INGI/11 LAT&! HtR&? I TH(}(Xjf{T 
17DWYOUTO
\ 
'3TAY 7f{f;HfU. rm OFMY 
ffiii!'l~"::. l./fel 
11·8 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
I JU5T WANT 70 TAU<,MR.BIU.. 
NO 70UOIIN6, NO PUFFING, I ! 

'Those wo don't know how to weep with their whole heart don't know how to laugh either.' 
.----------------------­
page 10 Wednesday, November 8, 1989 
----------~----------­




Accent 
Presenting 

SECOND CITY AND IRISH ACCENT Comedy the old-fashioned way 
Chicago's comedy troupe visits Notre Dame 
'From this auspicious beginning through to 
the present time, this small group of funny 
people has made a large impact on the 
world of comedy.' 
JOHN FISCHER part of the the permanent accent writer show in Chicago or its more 
recent counterpart. Toronto. hink funny. The first part of the typical Think John performance consists of Belushi, Bill Saturday Night Live-style Murray. Gilda sketches. (This designation is Radner, John really backwards, however; Candy. Martin SNL pieces are actually done in Short. Shelly the Second City-style.) This Long, Dan part of the performance salutes Ackroyd, and the history of Second City by Joan Hivers. performing long-standing, 
Think The Second City traditional skits, while still Comedy Troupe. remaining topical with fresh 
The Chicago-based improvi­material. sational group brings its per­albums. full-length produc­The newer sketches are ob­formance and its long-standing tions, television series, tained in the second portion of comndy tradition with it when Broadway shows, and cable the show, in which the cast it makes its stop on the Notre specials have all come from asks for ideas from the audi­Dame campus on Thursday. the minds of Second City ence. From these ideas comes Novnmber 9. The collection of comedians, some of whom the improvisation which has fresh young comedy talent is have helped define comedy in always been the lifeblood of one of thren traveling versions our time. Second City. The cream of this of the show. in addition to the improvisational activity is then groups that populate the stage Since Bernard Sahlins and added to the show proper the in the Old Town Chicago and Paul Sills founded Second City next time around. 
Toronto nightclubs. in 1959, the show has The audience can also expect Having taken its name from a remained basically the same. some references to Notre Dame 
derogatory comment about A sparse set, consisting of just and campus life to be worked Chicago made by A. J. Liebling a few chairs and a plain into the material. Local refer­in The New Yorker, Second City backdrop, take the emphasis ences and jokes are a tradi­first took up shop 31 years ago off the scenery and puts it tional part of a Second City on Chicago's north side. The where it belongs: on the traveling show. year was 1959. The roots of performers. The group that has been Second City, however, extend The cast of the traveling hailed by critics as the back to 1953 and the show is composed of new smartest and funniest comedy Playwright's Theatrn Club, prospects culled from the troupe in America can be which included Ed Asner and many aspiring comedians who caught in Washington Hall this Barbara Harris, among others. audition. Those who make it Thursday. November 9 at 8 
From this auspicious begin­are sent on the road to give p.m. Tickets are available at ning through to the present them experience and to the LaFortune Information time, this small group of funny sharpen their improvisational Desk from 12 to 5 p.m. and are people has made a large impact and comedic skills. The road $5 for students and $7 for non­on the world of comedy. Record standouts each year become students. 

Photo courtesy of Irish Accent. Irish Accent performers Doug Bozick, Alyssa Moehle, and Brian Maggio (left to right) watch in astonishment as Tim Farish acts like a chicken in one of the club's improvisational skits entitled "Chickens." 
~ 
Notre Dame's own slapstick comedy 
STEVE BROWN 
accent writer 

T
omorrow night at 9:30 
p.m., Theodore's has the 
pleasure of hosting one of 
the finest comedy/acting troupes in northwest Indiana: Notre Dame's own Irish Accent club. 
Contrary to popular belief. Irish Accent isn't a conglomer­ation of guys with brogues-speaking Gaelic is not a prerequisite for becoming a member. Another misconception about the club is that it is strictly a comedic organization. Actually, Irish Accent presents various forms of entertainment. ranging from one-act plays to melodramas. Comedy, however, is the group's forte and it is the reason that the organization has been so well received since its creation. 
Irish Accent was started in January of last year by present sophomores Doug Herberle and Tim Farish. They held auditions and decided on forming a standing troupe of 14 members (seven guys and seven girls). In their opening season, the group presented three one-act plays, which for the most part, ac­cording to Herberle, were "comedies with serious under­tones." Each performance was followed by improvisational humor, with various members of the club doing off-the-cuff skits. This tended to give them the reputation of solely being a comedy group, but no one was complaining. With each succes­sive show Irish Accent grew in popularity; each performance received a better reception than the one before. 
The group established itself so well in its fledgling year that this year both Theodore's and the S.U.B. contacted them to perform. This Thursday at Theodore's, the group will be presenting improvisation and skit-comedy in the Saturday Night Live tradition. But, later this year, the club will attempt to shatter its strictly comedic stereot.ype by presenting a catered (that means real food) dinner-theater-type melodrama in one of the dining halls, a first at Notre Dame. 
According to President Doug Herberle, this ground-breaking attitude is what makes Irish Accent unique and popular. He says that because no other or­ganization at Notre Dame has ever attempted this sort of comedy/acting, "people appre­ciate (us) as something new and exciting." In fact, the group is so unique that it has received invitations from a number of area universities, and will probably begin local touring within the next few years. 
In addition to being new and exciting, Irish Accent also showcases some good old­fashioned slapstick comedy. One of their more famous skits is called "The History of... " Members of the audience select a subject that they want to know the history of-say, for example, Notre Dame's infa­mous "meatless cheeseburger." Then, four members of the troupe intermittently try to ex­pound upon the origins of the topic. The results are different every time. and can be sidesplitting. 
If this sounds like it would be funny, imagine how hilarious it would be in person. Check out Irish Accent, ND's rising sons of comedic acting, this Thursday night at Theodore's. The show starts at 9:30 p.m. and usually runs for about an hour and a half. It could just be one of the funniest "hour and a halves" of your life! 
page 11

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 am to 3·30 p m 1 the Notre Dame office, :114 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at th~ Saint ·Ma ·.s-:fficeHagg~r College Cen~er. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All clasaifledZ must ~ 
prepaid. The charge 1s 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 
I NEED 2 SMU GA'S YOU NAME  TOP$  Need 1 SMU student ticket.  MAIL CAMPAIGNS, MAIL  
NOTICES  FOR RENT  YOUR PRICE CALL RICK AT 289-3905  ALL HOME GA'S 312-920-9350  Please call Jay 2314.  CAMPAIGNS. TONIGHT 6:30 PM. ROOM 221 HAYES HEALY.  
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 237-1949 WORD PROCESSING 272-8827 Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 237-1949  NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR. 277-3097. BOUGHT HOUSE, NEED ROOMMATE. QUIET, NEAR CAMPUS. ROOM FURNISHED OR UNFURNISHED. MUST BE MATURE, NON-SMOKER. $200 MO + 1/2 UTIL. CALL 232-9952.  $$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$$$$$ HELP! I NEED 6 SMU GA's! Call Greg at 1653 PLEASE!!! I NEED SMU STUDENT TICKETS!!! CALL NEIL AT x2794  Big 4 Classic DecentJer2 Sponsored by Soph. Class Tix and Transportation $35 Available in Soph. Class Office 2 Tixs to all Home Games for sale  Miami Ticket Miami Ticket Miami Ticket Miami Ticket I need 4 Miami Tickets. Please help me. I'm just your average ND stud•~nt looking to support my team. Call Will at 283-1474. Thanks for your support.  PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. REPEATED TOMORROW EVENING. ALL ARE WELCOME. MAIL CAMPAIGNS, MAIL CAMPAIGNS. TONIGHT 6:30 PM. IN ROOM 221 HAYES HEALY. PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. REPEATED TOMORROW  
WORDPROCESSING 272-8827 ADOPTION: Happily married white couple wishes to share love and security with newborn. We are both architects and will provide joyful and creative home. Expenses paid. Legal. Call Margaret and Jerry collect 718­858-6250 evenings and  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. FOR SALE ATTENTION-GOVERNMENT SEIZED VEHICLES FROM $100. FORDS, MERCEDES CORVETTES, CHEVYS. SURPLUS BUYERS GUIDE. 1­602-838-8885 EXT. A6262.  Need 2 GA's for SMU Phil271-5691 2 SMU GA'S FOR SALE. CALL DAN 714-738-3775. $150 FIRST 3 SMU GA'S Jim #1717  272-5092 NEED 2 GAs FOR NAVY CALL ANN 284-4223 NEED smu ga's 277-5934 TAKE A BREAK! I'LL BUY YOUR .11-18 PENN STATE SKTS. CALL COLLECT: 609-390-0456.  I need SMU tix Stud orGA call Kathy x4528 Need SMU tix (studs or GA's) call Chris at x3278 I need SMU tickets call Tom x2201  EVENING. ALL ARE WELCOME. Actors/ Actresses needed for a student produced film. Contact Tom Howley,#1430. SPEND 8 WEEKS IN SPAIN SPRING 1990. SHARE AMERICAN CULTURE WITH TEACHERS & STUDENTS. CONTACT INT'L INTERNSHIP PROGRAMS, 1-800­869-7056 FOR DETAILS.  
weekends. Cl LA Summer Program in Mexico Thursday. November 9 in the CSC there will be a reflection given by Theresa Loomis on her experience. ALL are welcome!! TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. LOST/FOUND  GO TO THE MIAMI GAME!!! 2 PLANE TIX FOR SALE CALL CHAR ITO #4923 1200 baud modem, RS232 and Hayes compatible, status lights, cable for Macintosh included. Asking only $75 or best offer. Dolby tape deck, auto stop, LED meter. Asking only $50 or best offer. Call Mark at 271-0672 1f interested  I NEED 3 SMU ga's. Have a heart and make my little brothers birthday. Call Jim x-3107, or Tessa 271-9895 NEED 2 SMU GA'S AND 1 STU HAVE 2 PENN ST. WOULD LIKE TO MAKE TRADE. DOUG X2226 I HAVE MIAMIGA's!!! Call#1511 NEED SMU GA. CHRIS x1067  I NEED NAVY,SMU,PENN ST, & MIAMI TIXS.272-6306 HELP!! I NEED 2 GA'S FOR SMU CALL KIM AT 284-4269. THANX! need 3 smu ga's please c"!ll kris x2568 Snow, Cold , Wet, Miserable. Sell me your SMU student tickets! Call John@2299!  NEED 2 SMU TIX Call Liz at X4273 ...*WANTED**.. ....... 2 SMU GA'S ...... CALL JOHN # 3157 FOR SALE! 2 SMU GA'S BEST OFFER BY FRIDAY, 5:00PM CALL KELI X2636 Need Penn St. Tix. Please call Nelson at 3278. Big $$$.  2 people need a ride to Pittsburgh area for Thanksgiving, leave 11/22 return 11/26. Will help with$$. Call Kathy 4914. JUNIOR, I'LL TELL YOU WHAT #1 IS ON FF.IDAY-SOME FRIDAY, ANYWAY. DEB'S ZOOM IE ROOMIE ------------------------------------­Alissa Murphy: Congrats on your acceptance to London. Don't forget those of us back in the States. Te Amo' CTB  
LOST: N.D. ring after fall break. Call Tim at 288-5320 Please call. LOST: A black Columbia ski Jacket the week of the USC game. If you've seen it. please call Kelly Olinger at 277-2944. Lost: Weekend of Pitt game­ 1-WAY TICKET FROM SB TO DALLAS/FORT WORTH. LEAVES DEC 22.FEMALE ONLY. $160.CALL USA AT 4916. 1975 EL CAMINO. RUNS GOOD. $1500 FIRM. PAT 3598. Red 4 door 1980 Honda Accord Call '3619  WE NEED SMU GA's and Student TIX!!!! Callusat271-9821. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ HELP!!! My GRANDFATHER and his ACCORDIAN would give anything for two MIAMA GAs. Willing to pay high price! Call AMY x2702  WOULD LIKE many SMU tix GAs and ST. x4352 Ted NEED 8 GAs FOR NAVY OR SMU. CALL DOYLE xt652 Need 3 SMU G.A.'s. Will pay big bucks. X4043, ask for Mark.  I need SMU GA's and stud tix Colin x4057 NEED SMU GA'S OR STUDENT TICKEoTS CALL KEVIN @1644 WANTED:SMU GA'S X3690Q·-ERSONALS--J  CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable atmosphere, daily & weekly specials, pool table, English darts, and great company. 234-3541 HiAg! I need someone give me a ride to go to New York city during Thanksgiving break, will share $$! Call Leo 1143.  
Women's crushed gold wedding ring with inscription JKB to JMR 7/28/73. Call313-322-5482 Collect.  CHEAP RT TIX SBEND(12/22) to SACTO,CA RETURN(1/15) Marge 283-2898  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ need 1 SMU St. TIC. Cara x4917  Don't need your SMU HOTEL RESERVATIONS? x3883  NEEDED: Small Couch or Love Seat. Please Call x3609. Please stop by the DESSERT BUFFET with your Mom and Pop  STUDY IN JAPAN THIS SUMMER. LEARN ABOUT JAPANESE CULTURE. BUSINESS & SOCIETY. LIVE WITH A HOST FAMILY. OTHER SPECIAL  -­ 
I lost my driver's license and several other important cards. They were in a blue packet and are very Important to me. If you find them please call Katherine O'Keefe at x3629. Thank you so much!!!! LOST: Ladies CORVAIR BIKE. White with blue trim, BIG basket on the front... Great sentimental value.  MIAMITIX for sale plus plane tic john 1700 for info TICKETS I I'll buy any tickets for any home game, or Miami. call JEFF at 239-3714, leave a message. Thanks.  I need 5 SMU Studs. Please call Sandy x4012 Needed: SMU GA's for big $$$ call Chris at 277-4392 HELP! I NEED 2 SMU GA'S FOR MY PARENTS. MIKE #1636 SMU GA'S NEEDED 1 or 2 tix, MATT x1211  Desparately need two student SMUtix. ask for Kristin. 2784 $$$$$$$$$$$MIAMI$$$$$$$$$$ I need MIAMitix -call Jeff at 3555 $$$$$$$$$$$MIAMI$$$$$$$$$$  Sat. night between 8:30 and 11 :00 at the South Dining Hall! $2/person or $5/family. RIDE NEEDED: COLUMBUS, OH leave 11/10, return 11/12 $$ Laura 284-4322 ------------------------­To the beautiful blond~-~ith-ih toga and laurel wreath at Zahm's ~osturne party last Friday night, I ve be1en enchanted by your eyes. Please give me the chance to  FEATURES. CALL INT'L INTERNSHIP PROGRAMS, 1-800­869-7056, FOR DETAILS. Top PHILLY CREW Quotes: -The Dry White Season (Karen's prediction of her winter) -It's not how you row. it's how you LOOK -Puddin' pants -JUST DO IT -Show 'em what your made of! -Whitman's hot mix -Celebration  
Any info-no questions asked!­call Bridget at 283-2457.  You need TXTS. call277-3653  INeedSMUtix 5StudorGA Chris x4199  NEED 2 SMU GA'S X4969 NEED MIAMI GA'S. WILL PAY$$$.  get to know you. Respond here. -Lou Holtz (of a sort) Parrot heads Forever!  -crew: the most sexually frustrated team -90% of all backrubs lead to something sexual-sorry Cesar!  
Found a camera near the library the week before fall break. Call x1593 and ask for David. LOST: Mickey mouse key chain with three keys on it. Call Chritine X2665 LOST: Sony DISCMAN at LOFTUS. Saturday morning before the Navy game. REWARD! Please call Monica x4917. missing : road bicycle white astro-daminer no ieft brake or toe clip call : 277:1631 no questions reward : $50.00  Need two SMU tix please call 284­4930!!!!!!!!!! DESPERATELY NEED: GA'S FOR NAVY AND USC STUD FOR USC AND PITT. $$$$$ ABSOLUTE $$$$$ TOP DOLLAR PAID! CALL DAN x1300 You need TXTS. call277-3653 a••••:-••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• NEED MIAMI TIX. CALL GREG  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEEDED-3 SMU tix (STUDENT OR GA) PLEASE CALL STEPH AT 283­4220. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED SMU TICKETS TIM #1527 6 Miami GAs for sale 277-7399 B/0 by 11/17 I need 7 SMU tickets! call Sara 3772 NEED 1 SMU STU TIK-CALL  CALL JIM HAGAN COLLECT 404­331-6039. CALL 404-351-7009 AFTER6 PM. Need 3 SMU GA's. Have 2 Stud. tick. plus cash. Call Jamie 272-1112 need 2 SMU tix real bad call me now@ 1765 Need one SMU GA or Student Ticket. Call Laura at x3887 or x3220. Poor slob needs lots o' SMU TIX to fend off major depression. Please call Matt 277-9485  HiT.Bass!!! ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF PRAYI'oR AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE POOH GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W. KOKOMO, IN 46901 HiT.Bass!!! ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W. KOKOMO, IN 46901  -Steph: "Pat me on the back hard­NOW!" -"Ride 'em cowboy" -Gerry's getting some Iovin' -Karen: "I feel so close to the trailer now.. !" -Where's Cesar? He must be changing his pants. HAPPY BIRTHDAY DEVON McDONALD #45 ............................................ Going to Florida for CHRISTMAS? I need a ride. Can leave anytime after Wed. Will pay gas, etc, but I need to know by 11/1 0 CALL TRISH x4121  .._  
Found: a lady's ring between North dining hall and Cavanaugh on November 7. Call Katie to identify at #48281 $50. REWARD!!!!! FOR THE RETURN OF A BLUE BOOK BAG AND ITS CONTENTS LOST MONDAY NIGHT BY HOLY CROSS' PORCH AT ST. MARYS. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. CALL 283-2261 OR 283-2319 AND ASK FOR DON. WANTED WANT TO PARTY? FREE TRIPS, CASH. INTENSIVE FUN!! Student sun/ski tour operator seeks fun-loving campus representatives. Call HI-LIFE 1-800-263-5604. RIDE NEEDED to southwest Virginia! Roanoke Area for Thanksgiving. Call Tom@ 2299  1653. I NEED 4 SMU GA'S. PLEASE CALL MARY 288-0885. SMWho? Exactly how I feel, but for some odd reason my parents want to see this game. Please sell me your SMU GA's and make my dad very happy on his birthday. Call Brigid @ 284-4101. I NEED 2GA'S AND 1 STUD. FOR SMU. CALL MARK @X.1722. NEED SMU TIX Kevin 256-2927 HELP! I NEED NAVY STUD. AND SMU GA AND STUD. BILL X3346 Hey zms, I need 2 SMU GA's call Amy at 284-5532 Wanted: SMU GA's at any pricel. Kevin #1373 WE NEED 7 SMU GA'S FOR$$$ SINGLES,PAIRS,ETC ARE FINE MARC X3375 OR DAVE X3387  PETE AT 277-7582 I NEED 2 SMU GA'S PLEASE CALL X2723 BETH NEED 2 GENERAL ADMISSION TICKETS FOR SMU GAME. CALL MARY LOU 234-3873. NEED 2 GENERAL ADMISSION TICKETS FOR MIAMI GAME. CALL MARY LOU 234-3873 BEFORE NOV. 12TH. 2 MIAMI TIX FOR SALE. CALL DAN (718) 596-8430. NEED 1 SMU STU. TIX X3680 HELP I NEED GAs or STUDs (1-4) for SMU. Call x2775. $$$ I NEED 2 PENN ST. TIX $$$ Please Call Vin x2015 I NEED SMU TIX. GAs OR STUDs CALL JOHN x1623  I simply must have 2 Miami tickets call Ted@ 1204 I REALLY NEED TWO SMU TICKETS. PLEASE CALL CHAD AT X1721. I need 1 SMU GA or 2 stud tickets. Call Teri x3944. 2 MIAMI GA's 4 SALE MATT 271-9576 Need 2 SMU GAS for folks SEAN X2311. I need 4 SMU GA's Call DON at x1789 I need 4 SMU GA's. Call ANITA X 4942 Need 5 SMU Student Tixs Call Derek Dando x2400 ------------------------------------­1 ROUND TRIP TICKET TO MIAMI! Leave Chi. on Wed. Night-return on Sun. Night over Thanksgiving.  Need X-MAS or bar cash? University Pizza is NOW HIRING drivers and inside help. We'll work with any schedule (8-40 hrs/wk). Good pay, great people!!! Apply at 18055 St. Rd. #23 (opposite Coach's & 3 drs closer to the mall). MODELS NEEDED FOR BEAUTY SHOW NOV. 13TH, CENTURY CENTER. L'OREAL EXPERTS WILL HELP YOU CHOOSE THE CHIC NEW HAIRCUT, HIGHLIGHTS, COLOR OR PERM YOU DESIRE. ALL SERVICES ARE FREE "BECAUSE YOU'RE WORTH IT." MODEL CALL-THURSDAY, NOV. 9TH, 7 PM, MARRIOTT HOTEL SOUTH BEND. ' MAIL CAMPAIGNS, MAIL CAMPAIGNS. TONIGHT 6:30 PM IN ROOM 221 HAYES HEALY. PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. REPEATED TOMORROW EVENING. ALL ARE WELCOME.  JOIN THE RUSH ­HATE MIAMI IN MIAMI ROUNDTRIP TICKET 4 SALE SBtoMIAMI 11/22-11/27 #1511 FOR SALE: Plane Ticket Leave: O'Hare, 12/21 11 :08 AM Arrive: ROCHESTER, NY, 1:34 PM Call1329. NOTRE DAME LODGING FOR PENN STATE GAME Luxurious condominiums at hotel prices. After an exhilarating game, return to Blue Knob Ski & Country Club and enjoy dining at The Village Inn Restaurant, end the evening by celebrating in the Lounge. To complete the day relax in one of our indoor pools, hot tubs, saunas, & steam rooms. Bus transportation available depending on occupancy. For further information please call Blue Knob Ski & Country Club at 814-239-5191  
OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo. Summer. Yr. round, All Countries, All fields. Free info. Write IJC PO BX 52-Corona Del Mar CA 92625  NEED SMU TIX: 3 GA'S & 1 STU CALL DAVE #1417 I need 1-3 SMU stud tix!!  I need SMU GA and STUD tix. Please call Amy 2690. HELP!!! I need 2 SMU ga's. I will pay good money. Call Shannon  Cost is only $215. Please call Ted at 283-3592 as soon as possible. I Need 2 SMU GA's  Torn, Don't forget about the Senoir Class Block Party on Thursday Nov. 9th from 4-7 p.m.  ND/SMC RIGHT TO LIFE Meeting tonight in Montgomery Theater of LaFortune : 9 PM.  
Call Chris, 233-0057.  at 284-5244.  Please call Scott X4113  Sean  MANDATORY 4 DORM REPS!!!  




------------------~----------------~-­
..... 


Sports Wednesday 
page 12 November 8, 1989 
SCOREBOARD NHL STANDINGS WRESTLING TOP 20 POLL TOP 25 POLL 
. . 
ssWALES CONFERENCE

Scoreboard 

Amateur Wrestling News Frrst place votes in parentheses, records
Patrick Division ResuHs from Nov. 1-8 w L T Pts GF GA Home Away Top20Poll through Nov. 4, total points based on 25
Div NY Rangers 10 3 3 23 67 44 6-1-3 4-2-0 3-2-1 1. Oklahoma St. for first. 24 for second, etc. and last weeks 
Volleyball (11-14) Washington 6 7 3 15 48 50 3-2-2 3-5-1 3-1-0 2. Arizona St. ranking: 56 2-4-1 4-2-1 2-0-1
Illinois del. Notre Dame, 6-15, 1 0· New Jersey 6 6 2 14 53 3. Oklahoma 
School Record Pts LW15, 15-12, 15-7,9-15 8 2 12 54 65 4-4-0 1-4-2 1-1-1 4. Iowa St. 1 . Notre Dame (56) 9-0-0 1,496 1Philadelphia 5 7 2 12 50 51 3-3-0 2-4-2 2-4-1 
Pittsburgh 5Notre Dame del. Rhode Island, 15-NY Islanders 4 9 3 11 51 62 1-5-2 3-4-1 1-4-2 5. Minnesota 2. Colorado (4) 9-0-0 1,441 2 
7,5-15, 15-4, 15-9 Adams Division 6. Nebraska 
3. Michigan 7-1-0 1,343 4 1 48 7-3-1 3-4-0 4-3-0 4. Alabama 8-0-0 1,310 5
10 21 Buffalo 9 4 2 20 55 45 6-0-1 3-4-1 5-2-1 5. Florida State 7-2-0 1,220 615-6, 6-15,6-15 Hartford 8 7 1 17 54 52 4-4-1 4-3-0 4-3-0 8./owa 6. Nebraska 8-1-0 1,180 3 Kentucky del. Notre Dame, 12-15, Boston 6 6 2 14 42 43 4-1-1 2-5-1 2-4-1 9. Michigan 7. Miami, Fla. 7-1-0 1,147 7 B. Illinois 7-1-0 1,104 
Iowa del. Notre Dame, 6-15, 15-9, Montreal 7 57 7. Penn State 
15-13,7-15, 13-15 Quebec 3 11 1 7 48 65 2-5-1 1-6-0 1-4-0 10. North Carolina 8 
9. So. Cal 7-2-0 1,042 9CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 

11 . Northwestern 
10. Arkansas 7-1-0 921 11

Men's soccer (10-7-3) Non1s Division 
w L T Pts GF GA Home Away Div 12. Indiana 11. Tennessee 6-1-0 902 10
Notre Dame 3, Xavier 2 

Chic..tgo 11 6 1 23 65 58 7-3-0 4-3-1 4-3-0 13. North Carolina St. 12. Auburn 6-1-0 829 12 
Saint Louis 2, Notre Dame 13. Penn State 6-2-0 744 16
Minnesota 8 6 1 17 53 50 6-1-0 2-5-1 2-5-0 
14. Ohio State 

3-3-0 14. Pittsburgh
St. Louis 7 5 2 16 51 44 3-3-0 4-2-2 5-1-1 683 14 Football (9-0-0) Toronto 7 9 0 14 71 79 4-4-0 3-5-0 4-1-0 15. Houston 6-2-0 610 17
15. 
Notre Dame 

16. 
N. Iowa



Notre Dame 41 , Navy 0 Detroit 4 9 3 11 53 70 3-2-2 1-7-1 2-3-0 16. Texas A&M 7-2-0 590 20 Smythe Division 17. Cal State Bakersfield 17. Clemson 8-2-0 557 21 Calgary 9 4 4 22 60 6-0-2 3-4-2 3-2-1 18. Virginia 8-2-0 436 24
Lacrosse 59 18. Bloomsburg 
Vancouver 8 6 1 17 56 55 5-4-0 3-2-1 2-3-1 19. W Virginia 6-2-1 412 13Washington College 14, Notre 19. Edinboro 20. Florida 6-2-0 317 19
Los Angeles 7 9 0 14 63 70 2·4·0 5·5·0 3·3-0 Dame 11 Edmonton 5 7 4 14 59 59 2-4-2 3-3-2 4·4-0 20. Oregon 21. Brigham Young 7-2-0 193 23 
Winnipeg 6 8 0 12 47 52 4·3-0 2·5-0 3·3-0 
22. N.C. State 7-2-0 156 18 Hockey (3-1-0) Tuesday's Game 23. Texas Tech 6-2-0 145 NR
Among the individual leaders from 
24. Fresno State 9-0-0 140 25

Notre Dame 10-9. Holycross 4-2 Washington o;, New York Islanders 3 Thursday's Games 
Notre Dame: 
25. Anzona 6-3-0 124 15

Wednesday's Games Edmonton at Boston. 7:35 p.m. 
2. Pat Boyd-142-poundsMen's swimming Montreal at New York Rangers, 7:35p.m. Toronto at Philadelphia, 7:35p.m. 12.Andy Radenbaugh-118-Other receiving votes: Ohio State 117, Notre Dame took first place in the Quebec at New Jersey, 7:45p.m. Pittsburgh at Chicago, 8:35 p.m. pounds Hawaii 105. Michigan State 58, Oklahoma Notre Dame Relay, scoring 216 Vancouver at Winnipeg, 8:35p.m. Detroit at Minnesota, 8:35p.m. 
Buffalo at Hartford, 7:35pm. Quebec at New York Islanders. 7:35p.m. 
52, Air Foree 41, Washington State 23.
16. Marcus Gowens-126-pounds 

Duke 21. Texas 21. Arizona State 11,points to surpass Wabash 18 Mark Gerardi 167 oounds G 7 LSU 1 S 1 
SPORTS CALENDAR NFL INDIVIDUAL LEADERS 
Calgary at Los Angeles. 10:35 p.m. Montreal at St. Louis. 8:35 p.m. 
Sports Calendar ARLINGTON, 7:30p.m. AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE NATIONAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE Quarterbacks Quarterbacks
Home games in CAPS Men's tennis at Wisconsin 
Att Com Yds TD In! Att Com Yds TD In!
Invitational 

Kelly, Buff. 184 117 1651 13 8 Montana. S.F. 216 149 1925 14 3 Wednesday Hockey at Michigan-Dearborn, Moon, Hou. 267 168 2255 14 8 Hebert, N.O. 261 172 2183 13 8 Volleyball at Northwestern, 7:30 7:30p.m. Esiason, Gin. 216 120 1645 14 4 Majkowski, G.B. 320 194 2602 18 13 Kosar. Clev. 262 162 1gQ1 13 9 Simms. Giants 190 115 1560 9 8
p.m. Men's and women's cross country 
Brister, Pitt. 190 113 1275 7 3 Miller, All. 259 150 1863 6 2
at NCAA District IV Meet 

O'Brien, Jets 304 185 2306 8 10 Everett, Rams 287 163 2219 15 10 Football vs. SMU McMahon, S.D. 230 130 1645 8 8 Rypien, Wash. 281 157 2192 14 g
Thursday 

Krieg, Sea. 311 173 1958 13 11 Cunn"gham, Phil. 295 162 2004 14 10
No sports scheduled 

Sunday DeBerg, K.C. 156 103 1282 4 10 Testaverde, T.B. 274 148 1946 14 14 Men's tennis at Wisconsin 
Marino, Mia. 315 179 2248 13 16 Tomczak. Chi. 201 105 1383 11 10 
Friday Invitational 
-
Rushers Rushers
Volleyball vs. ILLINOIS-

At! Yds Avg LG TD Att Yds Avg LG TD 
Monday

CHICAGO, 7:30p.m. Okoye. K.C. 214 936 4.4 59 B Anderson, Chi. 175 806 4.6 53 8 Hockey vs. MICHIGAN-No sports scheduled Thomas, Buff. 161 745 4.6 38 4 Bell, Rams 166 714 4.3 46 8 721 65 And'son, Giants 206 698 3.4 36 7
DEARBORN, 8:30 p.m. Brooks, Gin. 125 5.8 4 
Dickerson, Ind. 160 693 4.3 21 4 B.Sanders. Det. 131 688 5.3 31 5
Men's basketball vs. ISRAEL, 

Tuesday Humphrey, Den. 133 530 4.0 40 6 Riggs. Wash. 160 669 4.2 58 3 
7:30p.m. No sports scheduled Jackson, Raiders 63 467 7.4 92 4 Walker, Mnn. 155 627 4.0 47 3 Stephens, N.E. 139 460 3.3 35 4 Hilliard, N.O. 169 616 3.6 25 8 Warner. Sea. 119 390 3.3 21 2 Craig, S.F. 158 574 3.6 27 4 Metcalf, Clev. 104 377 3.6 43 4 Fullwood, G.B. 127 566 4.5 38 5 Williams, Sea. 101 360 3.6 20 1 Settle, All. • 119 458 3.8 18 2 
Receivers Receivers 
NO Yds Avg LG TD NO Yds Avg LG TD Reed,Buff. 53 803 15.2 78 5 J.Smith, Phoe. 62 778 12.5 31 5 Blades. Sea. 46 623 13.5 32 3 Ellard, Rams 55 983 17.9 46 6 
AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE NATIONAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE Johnson.Den. 42 687 16.4 68 5 Rice, S.F. 48 962 20.0 68 11 OFFENSE OFFENSE Williams, Sea. 42 317 7.5 25 4 Monk, Wash. 48 684 14.3 55 4 
Yards Rush Pass Yards Rush Pass Slaughter, Clev. 40 826 20.7 97 5 Sharpe, G.B. 47 793 16.9 79 7 Buffalo 3438 126g 216g Washington 3629 1136 2493 Hill, Hou. 40 614 15.4 50 4 Sanders, Wash. 46 630 13.7 51 3 Cincinnati 3244 1494 1750 San Fran'sco 3488 1091 2397 Thomas. Buff. 36 409 11.4 74 4 Rathman, S.F. 44 372 8.5 36 1 Houston 3237 1103 2134 Green Bay 3478 1004 2474 Lipps. Pitt. 34 562 16.5 64 3 Carrier. T.B. 43 666 15.5 43 4 Miami 3172 798 2374 Chicago 3209 1367 1842 Givins, Hou. 34 560 16.5 48 3 Clark. Wash. 42 691 16.5 80 6 New Engl'd 2999 g9e 2001 NewOrl'ns 3177 1041 2136 Jones, N.E. 34 505 14.9 65 4 R.Johnson, Det. 39 542 13.9 71 2 Kansas C. 2958 1299 1659 Rams 3112 999 2113 Woodside. G.B 39 393 10.1 33 0 
Punt Returners

Raiders 2957 1285 1672 PhiIa. 3066 1267 1799 Punt Returners
NO Yds Avg LG TD
Denver 2915 1188 1727 Giants 2963 1248 1715 NO Yds Avg LG TD
Verdin, Ind. 18 238 13.2 49 1
Jets 2876 773 2103 Detroit 2861 1150 1711 Henley, Rams 1 2 161 13.4 25 0
McNeil, Clev. 25 267 10.7 49 0
Cleveland 2767 942 1825 Phoenix 2850 932 1918 Sanders, All. 1 7 203 11.9 68 1 
Edmonds, Raiders 16 168 10.5 20 0
lndia'polis 2710 1058 1652 Tampa Bay 2834 869 1965 Sikahema, Phoe. 22 261 11.g 53 0
Martin, N.E. 16 152 9.5 28 0
Seattle 2629 856 1773 Minnesota 2803 1152 1651 Green, Chi. 12 118 9.8 24 0
Stradford, Mia. 14 129 9.2 19 0
San Diego 2587 979 1608 Atlanta 2692 718 1974 Meggett, Giants 27 256 9.5 30 0
Townsell, Jets 15 124 8.3 27 0
Pittsburgh 2105 853 1252 Dallas 2397 663 1734 Lewis. Minn. 25 235 9.4 65 0
Mandley, K.C. 17 140 8.2 19 0 Harris. N.O. 14 129 9.2 20 0Sutton, G.B.-Buff. 14 106 7.6 19 0
DEFENSE DEFENSE Williams, Phil. 25 226 9.0 24 0
Martin, Gin. 13 96 7.4 17 0
Yards Rush Pass Yards Rush Pass Taylor, S.F. 22 196 8.9 21 0
Jefferson, Sea. 12 87 7.3 19 0
Kansas C. 2348 1022 1326 Minnesota 2062 1030 1032 Shepard, N.O.-DII. 20 174 8.7 56 1 
Denver 2541 933 1608 Giants 2577 875 1702 Cleveland 2580 889 1691 San Fran'sco 2646 838 1808 Kickoff Returners Kickoff Returners Houston 2845 817 2028 New Orleans 2775 712 2063 NO Yds Avg LG TD NO Yds Avg LG TD Seattle 2910 1198 1712 Washington 3023 953 2070 Logan, Mia. 18 510 28.3 97 1 Dixon. Dall. 28 755 27.0 97 1 
Metcalf, Clev. 15 411 27.4 49 0
Buffalo 2926 964 1962 Atlanta 3073 1191 1882 Gray, Det. 13 342 26.3 38 0 Raiders 2948 1128 1820 Detroit 3091 997 2094 Woodson, Pitt. 23 594 25.8 66 0 Gentry, Chi. 16 393 24.6 63 0 San Diego 2956 1077 1879 Phoenix 3143 1209 1934 Martin, N.E. 21 519 24.7 38 0 Johnson, Wash. 19 417 21.9 38 0 
Harris, Hou. 13 309 23.8 63 0 
Cincinnati 3151 1321 1830 Tampa Bay 3185 1198 1987 Jefferson, Sea. 22 511 23.2 97 1 Jones, All. 13 280 21.5 29 0 Miami 3184 1216 1968 Phila. 3192 1007 2185 Nelson, Minn.-S.D. 14 317 22.6 32 0 Ro.Brown, Rams 35 743 21.2 74 0 
lndia'polis 3023 1079 1944 Chicago 3179 1004 2175 Sanders, All. 19 414 21.8 72 0 
Pittsburgh 3230 1176 2054 Green Bay 3259 1250 2009 Jennings, Gin. 16 353 22.1 33 0 Flagler, S.F. 22 450 20.5 41 0 New Engl'd 3276 984 2292 Rams 3277 957 2320 Sikahema, Phoe. 25 511 20.4 52 0
Bell, Den. 18 389 21.6 33 0 Jets 34.72 1171 2301 Oallas :3281 1336 1945 Townsell, Jets 21 422 20.1 69 0 Megpett, Giants 17 347 20.4 34 0 


WE'VE MADE BUYING A COMPUTER A LITTLE MORE DOWN TO EARTH 

Not only is it ·simple to use a Macintosh8 computer, it is easy to own one, too. 
As a student at Nqtre Da1J!e, yqu can own a corp_puter right n9w thanks to 
The Mactntosh Ftnanctng Program for I-figher gcrucatton: 
The program provides special low-interest loans designed exclusively for parents of full-time graduate or undergraduate students and for eligible self-supporting students. Mac is what you make it and by choosing the Macintosh Financing Program for Higher Education, 

you could make it yours. 
Two repayment options are offered-the Standard Payment Plan and the Deferred Payment Plan. As a student, you could have a Mac for $30 a month for up to four years. For further information, visit the Notre Dame Computer Store open Monday through Friday, 9:00-5:00. #239-7477 
however! The Macintosh Financing Program for Higher Education isn't the only way you can own a Mac. On November 15, any student or faculty member will be eligible to win a Macintosh SE. You just have to visit Theodore's on the 15th and enter the Macintosh Raffle and you could leave with a brand new Mac. In addition to the food and drink, representatives from Macintosh software companies will be present for your learning pleasure. Whether it is Arts & Letters, Business, Science, Architecture, Engineering, or personal use, Mac is what you make it. 
Raft1e tickets are being mailed to you and may also be obtained at the dining halls this week. 

Join us on November 15 at 7:00p.m. and remember to bring your raffle ticket. 

Mac is what you make it 



Miami facing do-or-die road test 
COIV\1. GABLES. Fla. (APl ­The Miami Hurricanes hope to climb back into contention for the national championship Saturday with a victory at Pittsburgh. 
"The significance of this game for us in 1989 is unbe­lievable." Coach Dennis Erickson said Tuesday. "It's a big game. probably bigger than a lot of people think. .. . My stomach bothers me a little more this week." 
Miami and Pitt both suffered their only defeat Oct. 28. No. 14 Pittsburgh (5-1-1) was beaten by top-ranked Notre Dame 45­
7. while No. 7 Miami (7-1) lost at Florida State 24-10. 
Volley 
continued from page 20 
on the collegiate level for the first time. 
''I've been impressed with the play of both of them. But when you have young players like sophomores Chris Choquette and Jennifer Slosar still coming into their own, you hope that the team can put something good together this year but concentrate more on the fu­ture." 
The Irish have looked to freshmen like Fiebelkorn and outside hitter Alicia Turner to 
"We can't lose another game if we want to win the national championship," Erickson said. 
The Hurricanes. ranked No. 2 before losing. are among seven teams in the Top 25 with one defeat. Three teams ranked ahead of Miami are unbeaten ­Notre Dame. Colorado and Alabama. 
After playing at Pitt. the Hurricanes finish their season at home against San Diego State and Notre Dame. Victories in all three games probably would boost Miami back into the top five going into the bowl games. 
Craig Erickson likely will 

carry much of the load. but the team's only seniors­Cunningham and setter Taryn Collins-continue to deliver steady performances. 
Both were brought home all­tournament honors in the Golden Dome Classic as Cunningham contributed 15 kills, 14 total blocks and 27 digs and Collins recorded 93 assists. 19 digs, five kills and three service aces for the tour­nament. 
Lambert will be looking for a team effort to tally this sea­son's second win over the 9-17 Wildcats. 
Northwestern, led by Shelley Brzozowski's 342 kills and 311 

SOPHOMORES! 
Be a part of Junior Parents Weekend this year. 
Junior Parents Weekend Sophomore Committee Chairperson WANTED! 
Pick up applications in Student Activites Office 3rd Floor LaFortune 
Due by Friday, November 10 
N.D. & St. Mary's Seniors: Explore Career Opportunities with-­



Northern Trust BanK. 
Celebrating a Century of Service -1889-1989 
• Chicago's 4th Largest Commercial Bank 
• Chicago's Largest Trust Company 
Bank officers will host a brief presentation and discussion 
Wednesday at 7:00p.m. Main Lounge of the University Club 
start at quarterback Saturday for the first time since suffering a broken knuckle on his passing hand in a game Sept. 
30. Erickson came off the bench in Saturday's 40-10 vie­tory over East Carolina and passed for 173 yards in two quarters. 
"Craig will work with the first group most of the time" in practice this week. Coach Erickson said. "Unless he doesn't perform physically the way he's capable, he'll be the starter." 
Freshman Gino Torretta started Miami's past four games, including the loss to Florida State·. 
digs, will try to neutralize Notre Dame's hopes of improv­ing its 11-14 record 
Stacey Kammes, who has 286 kills thus far in the season. will team with setter Carey Nostrant in the Wildcat offen­sive attack. 
"We just have to keep ham­mering away and playing the way we are capable of playing," Lambert said. "I know the team is tired of losing." 


Colorado QB jumps into Heisman race 
BOULDEH, Colo. (AP) ­Colorado quarterback Darian Jlagan, who didn't participate in enough plays to earn his letter as a fresh­man, has emerged as a leading candidate for the Jleisman Trophy as a sophomore -a remarkable progression in tradition­steeped college football. 
Coach Bill McCartney be­gan the Hagan-for-lleisman campaign Saturday after the No. 2 Buffaloes defeated then-No. 3 Nebraska 27-21. "Hagan should win the lleisman Trophy," McCartney told a national television audience. 
Before the game, CBS commentator Pat Haden told McCartney he believed Hagan was a legitimate contender for college football's most prestigious individual honor. 
Others apparently agreed. This week, The Sporting News listed Hagan as the leading Heisman candidate. 
"The guys with the Heisman buildup at one time or another have disap­pointed this season. McCartney said Tuesday. "Nobody is doing what Barry Sanders (of Oklahoma State) did last year. Everybody is looking for the guy who is having the most impact on his team. 

"Darian has had some tremendous games against good defenses. lie was sen­sational Saturday despite not getting good protection. Generally, the lleisman goes to an older kid, but if you look at performance, !lagan is a legitimate candidate. lie could jump up there. 
"He could finish with 1 ,000 yards rushing and passing. You look around the coun­try, and nobody is leading an undefeated team like he is. There are very few players who have proved to be more valuable. And there probably aren't too many teams that have played a better sched­ule, so he's done it against good teams." 
Through nine games, Hagan has rushed for 794 yards and passed for 815. 

Not going home for Thanksgiving? Don't let the turkeys get you down!! 
ND Alumni Association/Student Government Thanksgiving Holiday Host Program 
Thursday, Nov. 23 -Thanksgiving Day Brunch in Alumni homes within the South Bend area 
Friday, Nov. 24-Community Service Project Saturday, Nov. 25-Miami football extravaganza at the JACC (15-ft. screen) Sunday, Nov. 26-Holiday Mass at Stepan Center 
Baltimore pitcher wins Rookie of Year honors 
NEW YORK (AP) -For Gregg Olson. it was just too bad his last game wasn't as good as his first 63. 
Olson the relief pitcher who led Baltimore to the one of the greatest turnarounds in base­ball history, was voted American League Rookie of the Year on Tuesday. 
Still, the memories linger from the last Friday night of the season. The Orioles went into Toronto for a three-game series trailing the Blue Jays by one game in the AL East. In the opener. Baltimore led 1-0 in the eighth inning and seemed in po­sition to tic for the division lead when Olson's curve bounced away and allowed the tying run to score with two outs. 
"It was one of those things," Olson .said. "Who's to say if I had made the pitch he wouldn't have hit it?" 
The Blue Jays went on to win in the 11th inning. then won the next day to take the title. Baltimore finished with an 87­7 5 record, 33 more victories than it had in 1988. It matched the second-greatest improve­ment in history behind the 1903 New York Giants. 
"We had such a great season, I don't think those two games ... it wasn't like we choked up and gave away those games," Olson said. "We fought until the end." 
Olson got 26 first-place votes and two seconds from a 28­member panel of the Baseball Writers Association of America for 136 points. Kansas City Hoyals pitcher Tom Gordon (17-9, 3.64 EHAI got one first, 67 points. Seattle Mariners out­fielder Ken Griffey Jr. (.264, 16 HH, 61 RBis) got one first, two seconds and 10 third for 21 points. 
Baltimore third baseman Craig Worthington was fourth with 16 points, followed by California Angels pitcher Jim Abbott with 10 points and Texas Hangers pitcher Kevin Brown with two points. 
"Gordon had a great year and you have to wonder what would have happened if Griffey hadn't gotten hurt," Olson said from Louisville, Ky. "The same with Junior Felix. You can't ex­pect something like that with all the guys around the league who had the years that they 
did.  I didn't  want  to  get  my  
hopes up."  
Olson,  the  sixth  Baltimore  

player named Rookie of the Year, set an AL rookie record with 27 saves, breaking the mark of 23 by Doug Corbett in 1980. Olson's save total was eight more than the rest of AL rookies combined this year. He stopped a three-year streak by Oakland (Jose Canseco, Mark McGwire, Walt Weiss) and be­came the first relief pitcher to win the AL honor. 
"I didn't know if I was going to make the team at all coming out of spring training," Olson said. 
Todd Worrell, who saved 36 games in 1986, is the only rookie to get more saves than Olson. Terry Forster, who saved 29 games in 1972 at age 20, is the only pitcher to get more saves at a younger age than Olson, who turned 23 on 
A view of the NFL from London 
L 0 N D 0 N -Scott Brutocao
Surrounded by all that  
is different and foreign  Foriegn  
on another continent, sometimes a reminder  Correspondent  

of American culture is refreshing. One ritual which several students enjoy on the Notre Dame London Program is sitting back at 11 p.m. on a Sunday evening to watch some American football action. But even something as quintessentially American as the National Football League becomes a cul­tural event when watching on the "telly" in London. 
The most important thing to realize is that American football is rather obscure here; references to the San Francisco 49ers or the Chicago Bears will draw many puzzling looks, while Bob Costas and John Madden are un­known names. For this reason, only one daring British television station includes American football in its programming, airing it at the unaccomodating time of 11 p.m. on Sunday. 
OK, so nobody thought the NFL would command much influence in the dynamic British sports world of darts and snooker. Granted. Why else sould they show only one game a week, a severely edited one at that? 
The games are reduced to about 45 minutes of action, hardly amounting to more than an extended highlight film. This alone would probably raise more than an eyebrow of an American football aficionado, but there's more. 
There is one central narrator on the pro­gram who recounts and explains everything about the NFL for the previous week. The sparkling personality is none other than Mick Luckhurst, who some will remember for his own days as a placekicker for the Atlanta Falcons. 
Mick just happens to have an outr11.geous accent that combines the British dialect with the Elmer Fuddian, so that "roving reporter" become "waving weepoeter." His role is quite serious, though, as every European watching this program will necessarily associate American football with Mick Luckhurst. This seems hardly appropriate; its rather like as­sociating Ronald Beagan with Notre Dame, 
or Nancy Reagan with astronomy. 
In addition, the program is amazingly con­fusing. The British would-be American foot­ball fan must be helplessly befuddled by the complete disregard for continuity in the editing. Rather than show the whole game, the editors show only the highlights: scoring 
drives, interceptions, large gains, etc. Kickoffs, punts, and insignificant drives are omitted for the sake of brevity. By doing so, however, the program loses any hopes of showing the real American football to the foreign audience; the show is almost reduced to a demonstration of acrobatics in the NFL. 
It also seemed as if the producers of the show went out of their way to enforce the American stereotype; the introduction se­quence of the show consists of loud, powflrful music punctuated by a ridiculous ambulance siren at the end. Also, even though most of the action is cut out, the producers find plenty of time to devote to injured linemen sprawled on the field, harboring painful ex­pressions on their faces. 
The problem that the producers are faced with gets back to the age-old dilemma in communications of giving the public what it "wants" rather than what it "needs." If the program included every punt, every time-out, and every one-yard gain, showing only the spectacular passes, catches and tackles doesn't teach a fan much about the game it­self, which really limits the depth the cover­age can take. 
It's a catch-22, and for all the American complaints regarding the poor quality of NFL coverage by British TV, one need only look to the reciprocation of American media covering British sports, which is almost nil. At least the British are trying. 



DEANEU\AY 

4:30 Super Skis -South Quad Skateboard & Plunger Relays -Stepan Courts Scavenger :Hunt -Campus Wide 
5:30 Tug 0' War -White Field 
8 & 10:15 Revenge of the Nerds -Cushing Auditorium 

A VCR and trophy go to the ''Greekest'' dorms! 
STUDENT UNION 80\RO 
page 16 
Fresno State mentor gives credit to players 
FHESNO, Calif. (API -Jim Sweerwy's Irish aneestry won't let him eompletely diseount help from leprechauns in keeping his 24th-ranked Fresno State team undefeated, but he prefers to credit the skills of his players for their success. 
The Bulldogs rolled up night easy victories over largely undistinguished opposition to reaeh the Top 25, then nearly fell from the undefeated and untied ranks Saturday. 
After San .Jos1~ State seornd in tlw closing minutes, cutting Fresno's lead to 31-30, the snap from e1•nter for the extra point that would have tied the seorn dribbled along the turf, and the holder frantically threw a pass that a Bulldogs' dP­fender knocked down. 
Sweeney, who called the bad snap "the biggest break in my coaching career," felt his team's reputation for blocking kicks may have made the eenter nervous. 
"It was more than just the leprechauns," Sweeney said. "We were a very fortunate team to be able to be benefac­tors of that mistake." 
The victory gave the Bulldogs the Big West Conference title and their second straight ap­pearance in the California Bowl, held annually at their stadium. 
Sweeney isn't worried that the players will have a letdown after Saturday's emotional ending or will start looking ahead to the Dee. 9 bowl in­stead of con<~entrating on their next two games, on the road against New Mexico State and 
NPw Mexico. 
"Our message is always the 

same to a team: 'Don't worry 
who you play; concern yourself 
with how you play,' " he said. 
"I think when you take too 
much worry into a game, it 
botlwrs your nervous skills and 
then that affects your motor 
skills." 
The Bulldogs' perfect record 

this year follows a 10-2 mark 
in 1988, dimaxf~d by a 35-30 
California Bowl vietory over 
Western Michigan. Fresno's 16­
game winning streak is the na­tion's second-longest, behind Notre Dame's 21, and the Bulldogs are among only four Division I teams unbeaten this season. In addition to Notre Dame. the others are Colorado and Alabama. 
Sweeney describes his players as "extremely confident" with excellent team speed. 
"They don't stay blocked, and they swarm on defense," he said. "They use the element of desire about as well as it's ever been used here." 
Some of the key performers will return next season -tail­back Aaron Craver. the nation's 1Oth-leading rusher with 1.061 yards; quarterback Mark Barsotti, who has thrown for 1,489 yards and 14 touch­downs, and linebacker Hon Cox, who has 83 tackles, 22 1/2 sacks and is one of five finalists for the Butkus Award honoring college football's best linebacker. 
''I've worked hard this season to be in the top five," Cox said. 
for the Dogs, intercepting a 30­

The Observer 
OHLANDO, Fla. (API ­Orlando lost to the team with the NBA's fifth-worst record from last season and beat the dub that shared the fifth-best mark. So where does that leave the expan­sion Magic? With RO games left in a long season. 
Unable to sustain a strong performance in tlw final two minutes of an opening-night loss to the New Jersey Nets, the Magic nursed a lead for the final 7:06 against the New York Knicks on Monday for their first regular-season victory. 
"We're going to enjoy this, but we're not going to get too big a ~lead about our­selves,'' veteran center Dave Corzine said. "This is just the second game of the year." 

But in beating the Knicks 118-110, Orlando did clear a big hurdle before playing its first road game at Cleveland Wednesday night and begin­ning a stretch of six games in nine days Friday against the Detroit Pistons. 
"For maybe the first time (inel uding preseason I. we played our game for 4R min­utes and we got contribu­tions from all 12 guys," Coach Matt Guokas said. "When that happens, we're going to win." 
Heggie Theus led Orlando 

Wednesday, November 8, 1989 
with 24 points and the Magic scored its last 10 points on perfect free-throw shooting in th1~ final 93 snconds to hold off the defnnding Atlantic Division champions. 
The Magie outshot New York from the fi1~ld, 50.5 percent to 43.8 percent. and outhustled tlw Knieks for a 54-40 advantage in rebound­ing. 
The victory gav11 tlw Magie (1-11 tlw quiek11st start among the four expansion franchises awarded in April 1987. Charlotte won in its third game, while Miami lost an NBA record 17 in a row at the start of last season. 
yard pass in the end zone late
Playoff 
in the fourth quarter. continued from page 20 In the day's other game, the 
STERLING SILVER 
Fullback Mark Hoss, whose Pangborn Violence were true to slashing rushing performance their name, as they triumphed harassed the Morrissey defense 10-6 over Carroll in a game all afternoon, accounted for the marred by numerous penalties 
JEWELRY
next Alumni score, smashing and fights. 
into the end zone for an 18-0 The lone score for the 
margin. Vermin came midway through 
The final score of the day the second quarter when tackle 
AND WOOL SWEATER 
came when Alumni quarterback Darryl LeBeau returned an in­Jim Passinault hit tight end terception 65 yards for a Jack Donoghue, who raced 40 touchdown. yards for six points. This 
SALE 

touchdown, coupled with This year's playoff appear­Alumni's first successful two-ance was a milestone for point conversion in four at-Carroll's football program, as tempts, ended the scoring at it was the first time that the 26-0. Alumni captain Urban Vermin have ever experienced 
10 A.M. 5 P.M. 
Gillespie clinched the shutout post-season play.
•n••••••••••••••••••n•n•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
NOVEMBER 6 10
I The Becker I 
I • = ROOM 108 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
ICPARevlewl~~~~~~~~~­
.i Course I­
i will be having a i 'i presentation on I
. ­
.= November 15th i­! at 6:00pm I CAN YOU FILL 
I in the i.i Montgomery Theatre i -THIS UNIFORM? 
= i NON-VARSITY NEEDS BASKETBALL REFEREES
• at LaFortune. ­
i i GOOD PAY .= -i FLEXIBLE HOURS 
i Come see how we can i SIGN-UP AT NVA IN THE JACC 
I prepare you for the I~-------------...... 
I CPA Exam i
. ­
1•••••••---•n•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••ll 
-------~---~----~ 
Illinois, Michigan prepare for Saturday's Big Ten showdown 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. (AP)-They have identical overall records, identical conference records and identical goals: the Hose Bowl. 
After Saturday, someone will have an edge. 
No. 3 Michigan and No. 8 Illinois -Big Ten mortal ene­mies -meet this weekend in a game that likely will decide the confenmce championship. 
Both teams are 7-1, 5-0 in the Big Ten. 
And both coaches sum up the game's importance pretty much the same way. 
Illinois' John Mackovic said the winner will have the "inside track" to be the league's repre­sentative at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena. Calif. 
Michigan's Bo Schembechler says: "If we can win this game, we have a great shot at the championship. It's going to be a very big game." 
Kickoff will be 2:30 p.m. CST, and a sellout crowd of more than 73,000 is expected. 
"I'd expect a hard-hitting game.... A lot of rock 'em, sock 'em football," Mackovic said. 
Schembechler says each of­fensive unit is too good for the opposing defense to "shut them down cold." 
''They're not ranked No. 3 in the nation by mistake," Mackovic said of his opponent, the defending Big Ten cham­pion. 
Illinois, which relies more on the pass than Michigan, beat Iowa 31-7 last weekend; Michigan defeated Purdue 42­27. 
Illinois quarterback Jeff George has completed 161 of 265 passes for 1,673 yards and ll touchdowns. He has been in­tercepted nine times. George's top receiver is Mike Bellamy, who has 38 catches for 537 yards and four TDs. 
Bellamy has some ideas of his own about this weekend. 
"We're prepared to go to the Rose Bowl and Michigan is just another step in that direction," he said. 
Michigan quarterback Michael Taylor has completed 35 of 52 passes for 512 yards 
Fiesta Bowl m~y\lqt)'~tl~nge conference pact 
TEMPE, Ariz. (AP) -Fiesta Bowl officials ... the Fiesta Bowl is prepared to go after say they will consider challenging the agree-;;::··"' Michigan and there is a ~·so-5o chance" that ment between the Big Ten and P?:cific~l 0 con: .&!\ the Wolverines would accept a bid. ferences by offering an invitation to Michigan;;;: ''Our view is if they are qualified to play in if the third·ranke.d Wolverines lose tp No. 9 our game, we would very seriously consider Illinois on Saturday. .; offering them a bid," Meyers said. "They then 
•The winner likely will win the Big 'fen title would have to decide whether to go along and face the Pac-1 0 champion in the Rose Vlrith the rule. We've got to see if they're will· Bowl on Jan. 1 in Pasadena, Calif. ... ing to change their minds." 
. Don Meyers, the chairman of the Fiesta~$ If not, Meyers. the Fiesta Bowl's legal selection committee, said Monda~. ~~~this counsel, said both conferences would be sub-bowl maychallenge the policy that prohibits jHct to antitrust litigation. 
:I~sJ:~~!~ Pac·lO teams f~~~,I?~~y~~.~; •.•!~~ ., ~'It'ta clear violation of antitrust laws." When the Rose Bowl switt!p~~·w,!!3~ev· • said Meyers. "You've got 20 schools entering ciontracts from NBC to ABClasty¢aran an agreemenno restrain competition in in­.. Fiesta Bowl moved its · · rstate commerce -i.e. a bowl game. to compete with the Rose '"Wejust want to get the matter resolved. 1 agreed that it~ teams would avgid don't think.U's in the best interest of college and not accept a Fiesta BowLinvita football tolock 20 teams out ora bowl game :JIBu.tMeyers Jold The .!Vi2:gna J1epl.l])li~. th?;t ....Ji:w M arbitrary reason." 
::;f:::,:;:::.:·:· ··:·:·:::::::::. . . . ···::··:···.·=·=·=·:·:·:: ·. .. . ,;::: .. '. 
and six touchdowns, while be­to limit the Michigan rushing The teams were in a similar ing intercepted once. attack, while the Illini offense position last season, but 
Tony Boles leads the mixes the run effectively with Michigan shocked Illinois 38-9 Wolverines' strong ground the pass. at Ann Arbor. game with 121 carries for 707 That has no bearing on this yards and eight touchdowns. Howard Griffith leads the game, Mackovic said. Leroy Hoard has 102 carries Illinois rushing attack with 550 for 455 yards and four TDs. yards in 114 carries. He has "We're light years ahead of 
been getting help from fresh­last year," he said. "We've Mackovic said it will be im­men backs Wagner Lester and worked hard to get into this portant for the Illinois defense Steve Feagin. position." 
w&aee 
ELE8S\<NI CJl.5lSSJ21.8E CJl~ESE<lJ<"IS 

* WHOLESALJE PRICES *
SWEATERS I 


YOU'RE IN FOR MORE THAN YOU EXPECTED IF YOU JUST EXPECTED SWEATERS! WOOL SCAJIVES, FISHERMAN KNITS, HEAVY AND LIGHT SKI SWEATERS; OVER 15 STYLES. WE ARE A MOTHER-DAUGHTER COMPANY COMMITTED TO PROVIDING A HIGH QUALITY PRODUCT FOR A COLLEGE STUDENT'S BUDGET. ALL OF OUR SWEATERS ARE FULLY GUARANTEED. PERIOD. WE EVEN PUT OUR PHONE NUMBER ON THE LABEL. MASTERCARD, VISA, AND PERSONAL CHECKS ACCEPTED WHERE: LaFortune Center WHEN: Nov. 8-9-10 &11 (Sat) 

CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
We have started to take applications for next year. 
Furnished apartments -indoor swimmin!J pool ­-jacuzzi -tennis, volleyball & basketbaU courts 24-hour laundry-shuttle bus -professional management 
Apartments For available information for your call selection. 272-1441 
-----~ ---~-------­
page 18 The Observer Wednesday, November 8, 1989 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Off-campus students interested in playing on the basket­ball or hockey teams should contact John Koch at 271-8309. Deadline for registration is Wednesday, Nov. 8. Players should signup at the NVA office. 
lnterhall football equipment return will take place Wednesday and Thursday nights. Captains must call 239­6100 to find out their time. There will be a $5 late fee eharg~~d. 
Racquetball Club will meet at 8 p.m. Thursday, Nov. 9, in 184 Nieuwland for members interested in playing in the semester-ending tournament. Call x2334 for more informa­tion. 
Women's basketball team is looking for walk-ons for the coming season. Interested players should report to the Joyce ACC arena at 11 a.m. Sunday, Nov. 12. 
SMU 
continued from page 20 
tiv1~ victories. 

Oddsmakers have installed 
Notre Dame as a 56-point 
favorite. The Irish have not 
beaten anybody by that much 
since Ara Parscghian directed 
them to a 62-3 shellacking of 
Army during the 1973 national 
championship season. 
"I've never gone into a football game where we were such an overwhelming favorite," said lloltz. "I don't want to insult your intelligence, but every time you play an opponent, you always get scared. There's no doubt that SMU has gn•at young athletes, and that's what they are ­young athiPtPs." 
Not everybody is holding the Mustangs in such high regard. 
SyndicatPd ncwspapPr columnist Bill Gleason is holding a contest on possible methods tlw Irish could use to hold tlw scorn down Saturday afternoon. 
Gleason printed some entries in yesterday's South B1~nd Tribune. A few personal fa­vorites: "Punt on second down," "J.et a team from Saint Mary's play SMU instead," "llave players switch positions (e.g. Chris Zorich at quarterback, Haghib Ismail at nose guard, Tony Hice at center, etc.)." 
If things go as expected Saturday. nearly every Irish player should see action in Notre Dame's final home game of the season. 
That may include senior walkon and Dallas resident Ted "Tank" McNamara getting a chance to play against his hometown team. 
McNamara, who is not included in the Notre Dame media guide's player profiles, captured the media's attention with his one-yard touchdown run against Navy last weekend on the first carry of his collegiate career. 
The player whose locker is near those of Anthony Johnson and Ricky Watters found reporters keeping him in the locker room longer than his more celebrated backfield 
mates. 
One of the scout team's more versatile members, McNamara could not even figure out just where his name was on the Irish depth chart. 
"It's not really elearly defined 
as far as the running back 
positions go," said McNamara. 
''I'm sornewlwre down there." 
Whenev1~r McNamara does have that ran~ playing opportunity. he could go just about anywhere on the field. llis scout-ll~am experiences have seen him playing several different positions. 
''I've played everywhere from the offensive line to tailback to fullback, tight end and split end once in a while," said McNamara. 
It's getting to the point where it just isn't a Notre Dame game without a Todd Lyght in­terception. 
The junior from Flint, Mich., who had his eighth takeaway of the year in last weekend's 41-0 shutout of Navy, is two interceptions short of the school's season record. Mike Townsend had 10 interceptions for the Irish in 1972. 
Just in ease you were wondering, Notre Dame has the greatest football history of any college in the nation. At least Sport magazine says so in its current issue. 
The monthly magazine took winning percentage, number of national championships. position in yearly Top 20 rankings, number of perfect seasons and bowl apperances in account to put together a poll of which schools had the greatnst college football traditions. 


NOTRE DAME PARENTS WEEKEND FAMILY BUFFET November 11, 1989 8:30 -11:00 P.M. 
SOUTH DINING HALL $5 per family or $2 per person 
Invitation to all faculty and staff to reception. All are welcome and encouraged to attend with their families. 
Glee Club will be performing Sponsoreaby 

Jordan paces Bulls past Pistons 
CHICAGO (AP) -Michael who had 12 points in the first Jordan connected on a slam 5:14 of the period. dunk after Scottie Pippen's with 
1:05 remaining. breaking a tie Heat 83, Nets 77 and lifting the Bulls to a 117­114 victory over Detroit, their EAST HUTIIEHFOHD, N.J. ­first win over the Pistons here Kevin Edwards scored 15 since Jan. 16, 1988. points and Tellis Frank and 
The Bulls had lost seven Rony Seikaly each added 14 as straight here to the Pistons and the Miami Heat held off two seven in a row in regular-sea­late charges and beat the New son play against Detroit since Jersey Nets 83-77 Tuesday April 3, 1988. night for their first victory of 
Jordan had 40 points, with the season. his key basket coming after The Heat, a second-year NBA Pippen snatched the ball from expansion team, dropped its lsiah Thomas. Then John first 17 games last year and its Paxson capped his 16-point ef­first two this season. The Nets fort with a jump shot, giving had won their first two, indud­the Bulls a 113-109 edge with ing a 110-90 rout of the Heat in 
1:03 remaining. Miami last week, and could 
Joe Dumars' jumper pulled have been 3-0 for the first time the Pistons within two, but in their history. Jordan added a free throw with The Heat led 73-61 midway 20 seconds to go. through the fourth quarter 
Horace Grant's slam dunk when New Jersey rallied. A free with 1:15 left after a Pistons throw and two baskets by Chris turnover had tied the score Morris sparked a 9-0 spurt 109-109. that cut the gap to 73-70. 
Dumars kept Detroit in the Edwards interruped the game with 19 of his 23 points charge with a with a free throw in the fourth quarter, while but New Jersey's Dennis Mark Aguirre had 22 and Hopson made a layup after a Thomas added 20. steal by Lester Conner, bring 
The Central Division rivals the Nets with 74-72. continued to play extremely Miami sealed the victory by physical basketball. Top draft scoring the next six points as choice Stacey King threw a Edwards and rookie Glen Hice punch and missed Detroit made baskets around two free backup forward Scott Hastings throws by Hory Sparrow. giving midway through the third quar­Miami an 80-72 lead with 2::n ter and was ejected. remaining. 
Trailing 67-53 with 9:48 left The Nets scored the next live in the third period. the Bulls 
points, all from tlw foul line, 
four by Joe Barry Carroll, 
making it 80-77 with 55 sec­
onds left. 
Aftnr Sparrow missed second 

of two free throws, Seikaly re­
bounded and dunked with 32 
seconds left. Fourteen seconds 
later, after Seikaly blocked a 
shot by Carroll, Edwards closed 
out the scoring with a free 
throw. 
Hopson IPd Nets with 1 7 

points and Sam Bowie had 15. 
Bucks 106, Celtics 100 

MILWAUKEE-Fred Roberts scored 26 points and Hicky Pierce had 14 of his 21 in the fourth-quarter, including a key basket with 24 seconds remain­ing, as thn Milwaukee Bucks won their horne opennr over the Boston Celtics 106-100 Tuesday night. 
Pierce's biggest basknt of the game was a jumper from the left side that gave Milwaukee a 103-100 Inad. Larry Bird's two free throws plus a turnaround jumpPr with 41 seconds left had brought Boston to within 101­
100. 
But after Pierce's basket ex­tended Milwauk1w's lead to three points. Bird missed a 3­point shot with 12 SI~!'OIHIS to go and Hoberts made a free throw orw second latnr. .Jay llumphries got a layup just bP­forP the buzzpr for tlw Burks' final points. 
outscored Detroit 30-17, with Jordan putting in 17 points. They were behind 84-83 en­tering the final quarter and 
The Director of Admissions at 
stayed within two points but couldn't overcome Dumars, 
Georgetown University Law Center will be meeting with students Friday, November 10 1:30-3:30 in the Hesburgh Library Conference Room. 
Sign up with Phyllis Sandfort Career Center 
£ 



MENUS CROSSWORD 


Movie ................ Cushing Auditorium .. 

ACROSS 24 Harold of 47 Literary Leon comics 
48 Daunt
1 Lardner's­

26 West Coast 51 Budgelke missionaries? 
52 Remark
6"-Leaf," 

32 Tartarus
May-Matthau film 55 Earth tones 
33 Played a Little? along Lake Erie?
1 o Retirement 34 She said ave to 59 Thinplans for Cleo's Artie

maid? 60 Three, in Bonn 35 Beloved of
14 Navigational 61 Clear the X's 
Galatea
system and O's 36 Composer of
15 Heavy, e.g. 62 Witnessed 
"Gymnopedies" 63 Oboe, e.g. 
16 Flatfish 38 Coach a criminal 64 Mail clerk's 17 Monday malaise 39 Three, to Tasso 

de11ice
in Mo.? 

40"Dove-," 20 Strange 
Mozart aria 21 Composed of: 41 Alarm DOWN Suffix 
42 NASA boosters? 
1 Further 
22 Quantifies 

46 Onetime Eagle 
2 Burden 23 Eleven positions precursor 
3 Gladiolus or crocus 4 Baseball's 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Johnson, executive Hall-of-Farner 
5 Means 6 Excite 23 Carbon­30 Tinker's receiver 49 lnge product 
7Entre-­compound 31 Glut 50 Mere's spouse 
8 Biblical priest suff,xes 32 Biblical verb 51 Snick-or-­9 Former catcher 24 Antelope of 361n a bit 52 Hit a flyWestrum 

Africa 
53 Faulkner

37 British princess character10 Long or Ellis 25 Rapier's relative 
11 49-0 score, e.g. 26 Spinal bone: 38 Top cards 54 North Sea Comb. form 40 Shoulder fur feeder
12 Protected from 27 Farewell from 50
winds at sea 41 Moved hastily 
Down 56 Pres., e.g.
43 Toiled for Legree 13 Mtg. 
28 Jacl~sonville 57 "Some­18 Lombard city bowl 44 Bested born great. 19 Cabbage or 29 Dirhams are 45 Baby's bed Shak. moola spent here 48 Parcel of land 58 "-pro nobis" 


CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
I WP.S REAOIN.<:. ~IJI 1-\0W 
C.OJN.T\.ESS 51'£C.\ES P..R~ 

B£1~<:. P\JS~~t> TCWf>..RD 
EXiiNc.no~ S'( 1<\f>..~S 
DES\R\lc.TION Cit R)R'i:S\'5. 
WILBUR AND WENDEL 
97lii\E.\1M£5 I THIN~ T\-1£ sVRESI SIGN. T\-\f>..i IN.TI:.\.L\GENT L\IT E):ISTS ElSE'tl\\EI<E. IN it\£ UNWER.SE. IS 11-l{I..T KON£ OF li 
1-\f>..'S TRI£\) 10 CONTf>..C.T \JS. 
JAY HOSLER 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

• 

Notre Dame 
Top Round of Beef Grilled Sole Noodle Kugel French Bread Pizza 
THE FAR SIDE 
Saint Mary's 
Beef & Bean Tostada Spinach Crepe Chicken Paprika Deli Bar 
GARY LARSON 
.. 

Sports
page 20 Wednesday, November 8, 1989 
ND volleyball squad to face Northwestern in road match 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Ar.sistant Sports Editor 
Irish look to snap losing streak against Wildcats 
"The hardest thing to do is 

beat a team you've already team they defeated earlier this The Irish lead the five-year touted Kentucky squad arrived bnaten." Sflason in the Northwestern series 4-2. but they need the at the Joyce ACC to play the 
This sentence would seem to Academic Classic. win to rally from last weekend's Irish. contradict itself, but Art "It's going to be a tough disappointing matches. The Wildcats dealt the Irish Lambert, head coach of the one," Lambert said. "They're They advanced to the final psyche yet another blow, win­Notre Dame volleyball team, going to be out for blood be­game of their Golden Dome ning in four games. 12-15, 15­who expressed these words of cause we beat them on their Classic last weekend by down­13, 7-15, 13-15. wisdom, would tell you other­home court in the final game of ing Rhode Island in four games "We're definitely going to wise. their own tournament. but then fell to Iowa after a have to lift our intensity level," 
lie was speaking on the "Our teams are evenly brutal five-game battle. Lambert said. "We need to im­subject of Northwestern-the m·atched to begin with and And no sooner had their prove our hitting-our overall team the Irish must face they're going to be looking for Golden Dome opponents hit the offensive production-and re­tonight in Evanston, Ill., and a revenge." happy trails than a highly-ally work on our sporadic blocking and serving." 

The Irish have been plagued by inconsistencies in their gamn but Lambert is hoping that his squad and its sprinkling of ex­perienced playms will make the late-season surge needed to earn a bid for postseason play. 
"We been making morn men­tal errors than anything else," Lambert said. "We've asked a lot of our freshman middle blocker . .Jessica fiebelkorn and Kathy Cunningham, who as a senior is playing middle blocker 
see VOLLEY I page 14 
IH playoffs beginning to heat up 
By DAVID DIETEMAN Sports Writer 
The Alumni Dogs cruised to a 26-0 decision over Morrissey Manor. while Pangborn Violencfl up1~nded Carroll Vermin 10-6 in the first round of the men's lnterhall football playoffs. 
On its first possession of tlw day. Morrissny drove tlw length of the fif'ld. setting up a first and goal on thn Alumni four­yard line. The Alumni dl'fPnsn quickly stymied Morrissey's hopes. 
On fourth and inehPs at tlw Alumni goal linn. Manor tail­back Brian Doherty dove owr a pile of linenwn, colliding in mid­air with Alumni fnw safl'ty Gary Faudwr. The force of tlw collision jarred the ball loosP. and corrwrbaek Aneel Chablani recovered it in the end zone for a touchback. 
Electrified by that ddensive performance, Alumni opened the second half with a bang. as tailback Dave Ludwig scam­pered six yards for the first score of the game. putting Alumni up 6-0. 
The Dog ddense talliPd the next score for Alumni, as cornerback Ancel Chablani re­covered linebacker Paul Szyperski's punt block and cashed it in for a touchdown. 
see PLAYOFF I page 16 

• 
St. Louis ends season for Irish soccer squad 
By CHARLIE POLLARD In order to advance to Sports Writer Friday's St. Louis game. the Irish beat Xavier 3-2 on 
It is mw of sport's great Thursday evening. That victory euph~~misms to rder to a. looked in doubt with 23 min­team s season as one of utes remaining and the Irish "transition." Usually a t1~am in facing a 2-0 delkit. What hap­"transition" is Pxcus1~d for its pmwd in those last minutes was disappointing rneord and in­what Coach Dennis Grace eonsistnnt. or downright. poor termed, "growing up in a play. hurry." 
This is not tlw easn at Notre Damn for tlw recently com­Freshman I'Pter Sanchez and piPtnd nwn's soccer SPason. .Junior Tom Connaghan scored While theirs was a season of two quick goals and suddenly it transition. this does not serve was anybody's game to win. as an Pxeusn for their seemingly The Irish boldly accepted the disappointing 10-7-3 record. challenge. This Irish squad ran hold their With just under four minutes lwad's high and look forward to go, the Xavier goalie played to nPxt yPar whnn all but two tlw ball out of his goalie box players rPturn. wlwre forward Steve LaVigne 
The men's season ended at blocked his way bark in. Unable last wnekPnd's MCC tournament to use hands. the goalie at­with a 2-1 loss to St. Louis in tempted to kick the ball up field tlw semi-final round. It was the and out of danger. Instead he second tirnP this year that the booted it right on to t+w ready Irish fPll to St. Louis. In this foot of sophomore Mitch Kern. game. the tournament host Kern calmly kicked a 20 yardnr BillikPns jumpPd out to a into the unoccupied net for the 2-0 halftime lead. Kevin decisive third goal. J'pmfergast scored on a penalty "We really showed a lot of shot in the sncond half for thn hnart in the sPcond half. They lone Irish goal. scored two goals on two shots 
.Junior stoppN Paul LaVignn before we got things going in captured the torw of the game the second half." said junior in two straight-forward sen­forward Dan Stebbins. tences. The Irish did dominate the 
"In the first half. they game statistically, yet they had poundnd us. In the second half. to really work hard to earn the we pounded them," said comeback victory. LaVigne. "They am the better After last friday's season­tnam." ending loss. the Irish were left to evaluate their season and think of the future. Thoughts of both are positive. 
The team progressed in many areas from the start of the sea­son, perhaps no other area as profoundly as experience. The Irish schedule was challenging 
Holtz says ND will play in bowl 
for those Notre Dame fans still holding their breath, you can let out a sigh of relief­the Fighting Irish will appear in a bowl game after all. 


In last week's press conference, Lou lloltz had implied that the St M 
Irish might skip a bowl eve egargee 
game this year. Several Irish Items members of the media scoffed at that idea. Holtz defended his statements from last week at Tuesday's press conference, but he also said that the players had decided that they did want to participate in a bowl game. "This year's a little bit different than any other year," said the Irish coach. "Number one, we came in and played the Kickoff Classic, which makes it a long year. Number two. our final exams end on Dec. 21. That may mean that our players have to be away for Christmas. I've never had a team that had to be away from home Christmas and New Year's as long as I've been coaching. "For all those different reasons, I thought I needed to approach our football club and find out what their feelings were on it. The upperclassmen spoke up and said, 'Coach, 
whatever it takes. We'd like to be home for Christmas -it has been a long year -but whatever it takes we'll do.' With that meet­ing, I have to feel quite certain we will go to a bowl game. Which one, I do not know." 
Holtz wasn't consuming any hot dogs or soft drinks when he began the press confer­ence. He didn't even have a ketchup stain on his collar. 
If nothing else, that proved the top-ranked Notre Dame football team is indeed taking Southern Methodist seriously. 
In a press conference last month, Holtz had responded to a reporter who questioned the Irish coach's habit of criticizing his own team while placing the opponent on a pedestal. 
Said Holtz, "If the other team plays the very best they're capable of playing and they still couldn't come close, then hey, we could sit here, eat hot dogs, drink Cokes, laugh and tell stories. But that's not really the case." 
Normally that's not the case. This week­end's game is no ordinary situation. Playing its first year since the well-publicized two­year "death penalty" from the NCAA, the Mustangs consist almost entirely of freshmen and walkons. The Irish are one win away from breaking the school-record for consecu­
see SMU I page 18 

and they emerged with a win­ning record. The team defense was the strongest aspect of the team's on the field perfor­mance. Although the Irish will miss senior co-captain Dave Augustyn as the anchor of the defense, the rest of the backs will return. 
Wrestling squad 13th in current Top 20 poll 
The Observer Staff Report 
Following an impressive victory in last weekend's season-opening Michigan State Invitational, the Notre Dame wrestling team has entered the latest Amateur Wrestling News college Top 20 poll. 
The Irish. who finished last season by placing 21st in the NCAA tournament, are ranked 15th in the listings. In addition, defending All-American Pat Boyd is mentioned as the nation's second best 142-pound wrestler. 
Other Notre Dame individuals who received mention were senior Andy Hadenbaugh, 12th in the 118-pound division; sophomore Marcus Gowens. 16th among 126-pounders; and junior Mark Gerardi, 18th in the 167-pound bracket. 
Among the teams ahead of Notre Dame in the rankings are five future Irish opponents: No. 3 Oklahoma, No. 6 Nebraska, 

Fran McCann No. 8 Iowa, No. 12 Indiana and No. 14 Ohio State. 
Oklahoma State is ranked first in tlw poll. followed in order by Arizona State, Oklahoma. Iowa State and Minnesota. 
Nebraska, Penn State. Iowa, Michigan and North Carolina round out the Top 10. 

Northwestern heads the next 10, followed by Indiana, North Carolina State, Ohio State and Notre Dame. 









