
r..·

Snow relief in sight ··.·1 
0 0 0 ••

IACCENT: Sophomore literary festival Flurries this morning with a 
0" 

50 percent chance of light 
snow in the afternoon. High 
15 to 20. More snow and
IVIEWPOINT: Sl controversy continues. 
cold tonight. 


MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1989 

the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

A platoon of Soviet soldiers march by a Soviet from Afghanistan. The Soviets claim that all soldiers transport plane in the final part of the Soviet withdraw! have been removed from Kabul. 
Moscow claims all troops are gone from Kabul 
Associated Press 
departure of all Soviet sol­The Soviet troops, sent in 
LONDON -Moscow Radio diers from Afghanistan, the December 1979 to help the 
said Soviet troops completed radio quoted Monday's edi­Marxist government fight 
their withdrawal from the tion of the newspaper Afghan insurgents, were to 
Afghan capital of Kabul on Pravda as saying: have been removed by Feb. 
Sunday, according to British "Pravda's special cor­15 under a U.N.-mediated 
Broadcasting Corp. respondents report that on agreement. 
monitors. Sunday the last Soviet sol­The Soviets began their 
Ten days before the dier left Kabul," the BBC 
agreed deadline for the said. see GONE, page 5 
Afghan leader says his government will survive after Soviet withdrawal complete 
Associated Press 
KABUL, Afghanistan-
President Najib told thousands of communist loyalists at a rally Sunday his government will survive after Soviet troops leave and his soldiers will win the na­tion's 10-year-old civil war. 
Moscow Radio said all So­viet troops were out of Kabul, according to British Broadcasting Corp. monitors in London. The radio quoted Monday's edi­tion of the communist daily Pravda as reporting that "on Sunday, the last Soviet soldier left Kabul." There was no way to immediately confirm the report. 
"God is with us. The people are with us. We will win the war," Najib told about 10,000 members of the People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan, who gath­
see NAJIB, page 5 


Faculty/student lounge now open 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Staff Rep(Jrter 
A new studentfaculty lounge opened on Friday called Wad­dick's. ' Waddick's is located on the first floor of O'Shaughnessy across from the Assistant Deans' Office of the College of Arts and Letters, said Roger Skurski, associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters. 
The lounge is open from 7:30 

a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday when school is in session, said Skurski. 
Coffee, coke, donuts, muf­fins, and coffee cakes will be sold by an attendant from Uni­versity Food Services, said William Hickey, director of Food Services. "The prices will be typical of the Huddle, and we hope to break even," said Hickey. 
"It's not a study hall, and it's not just a coffee house," said Skurski. "The main point is for people to talk." 
Before its opening last Friday, many changes oc­curred in the room, said Skurski. "The room used to be the basic O'Shaughnessy class­room so we wanted to change its appearance," said Skurski. 
Hickey said that because of a "quest" to find a place for students to get together with their professors, Food Services made several donations to this project. Some furniture from the old Huddle and a coffee stand that was in stock was donated, said Hickey. 
Through the Academic Facilities Managment the ceilings were lowered and benches replaced desks, said Hickey. Air conditioning, new lights, and carpeting were in­stalled as well. 
"The whole point of the lounge is to follow up on recom­mendations from various com­mittees that we need more space on campus for faculty and students to meet and talk about intellectual things," said Skurski. He said that he hopes to raise the level of conscious­ness on issues and this lounge provides a space to meet. 
The lounge is named after Robert Waddick, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters. "He's been here longer than anyone can remember," said Skurski. 
Waddick is an advisor to all students, especially those in-
see LOUNGE, page 5 


Former dictator of Paraguay exiled 
Elections promised within 90 days 
Associated Press family members and aides up 
· the steps to the jet, onlookers 
ASUNCION, Paraguay -on the observation deck at 
Former President Alfredo President Stroessner Interna­Stroessner boarded an jetliner tional Airport jeered, clapped at the airport that bears his and chanted, "Dictator Get name and flew to exile in Out!" and "Adios! adios!" Brazil, his 34-year-old grip on Stroessner landed in Cam­this nation ended by a military pinas, 290 miles southwest of coup that left hundreds dead. Rio de Janeiro on a Paraguay 
Also Sunday, the new presi­Airlines Boeing 707 then left al­dent Gen. Andres Rodriguez, most immediately on a announced that elections for Brazilian air force plane, an president and Congress will be airport official who asked not held in 90 days. 
see EXILE, page 5
As Stroessner led about 20 

Winners chosen in 'Wheel of Fortune' contestant search 
JOE BUCOLO resent Notre Dame and myself Although "Wheel" originally graded the tests. Those who another cut. Twenty students News Staff and have a good time." His intended to interview only 100 completed eight puzzles or remained. 
dream has come true along students, representatives more correctly progressed on Those 20 stood up and briefly 
The competition is over and with those of his three team­agreed to allow all those in line, to the second round. The crowd described themselves to the of­the team is ready. Freshman mates who were chosen out of just over 110, into Theodore's. shrunk from its original size to ficials. Another cut was quickly Jill Jones, sophomores Sharon over 100 contestants. Once inside, officials requested 33 after the first cut. made and the remaining 13 stu­Valus and Derek Mohr and As early as 3:00 a.m. last that students complete a brief dents played another round of junior Sean Bannon will com­Friday morning, students registration form. During the second round, games. After the round pete April 8 as the Notre Dame began to form a line at the The search began as each remaining · students played finished, officials announced team on "Wheel of Fortune's" doors of LaFortune to partici­student was given a test con-several games. Representa­the four winners. upcoming "College Week" in pate in the "Wheel of Fortune" sisting of 15 puzzles. The tives from "Wheel" were not "It'll be a lot of fun, espe­Burbank, Calif. contestant search. The line puzzles had several letters · so much concerned with stu­cially competing against
"When I first read about it in quickly grew on that frigid revealed and students had to dents who solved the puzzle, Miami," said Jo~s. Bannon The Observer, it hit the com­morning, until doors opened at write in the remaining letters. but were looking at how the stu­added, "Every time you watch petitive spirit in me," Mohr approximately 12:30 p.m., half The test lasted five minutes. dents played the game. After said. "It would be great to rep-an hour earlier than scheduled. "Wheel" officials quickly several games, officials made see WHEEL, page 5 
·--,--..-,-.......------------­
page2 The Observer 
OF INTEREST 

Major Gerneral Joseph Ahearn, highest ranking Notre Dame graduate in the Air Force who is presently deputy director of Engineering and Services will be speak­ing today 3:25p.m. in the Hesburgh Library auditorium. All those interested are invited to attend. -The Observer 
The Campus Ministry Office is preparing a campus Bible study for Lent. The first session will meet Tuesday at 7: 15 p.m. Each meeting will be one hour in duration. Father AI D'Alonzo, C.S.C., will direct the sessions which will meet in the Conference Room of the Campus Ministry Office in Badin Hall. The study will be conducted through the period of Lent. These study sessions will provide an opportunity to explore the Bible message, to pioneer its meaning, and become acquainted with the revealed word. All students are invited to attend; no previous Biblical experience required. -The Observer 
Any freshmen or other interested students who would like to help run the student presidential elections are in­vited to ameeting of the Omsbusdsmen today at 7:30p.m. in the student government offices, 2nd Floor LaFortune. Ifyou have any questions please call John Wilson (283-1694) or Patrick Stadter (283-1791). -The Observer 
Graduate student life will be the topic of a workshop with Father Malloy today at 7:30 p.m. in Theodore's. Graduate students will have an opportunity to voice their opinion and ask any questions regarding the future of graduate students at Notre Dame. -The Observer 
All Saint Mary's students running for student body or class offices for the 1989-90 school year must attend one mandatory election meeting either today or Wednesday. Meet at 7:00p.m. in Room 304 Haggar College Center. All members on your ticket must attend. -The Observer 
A national championship salute will be held Tuesday at 8:00p.m. in the Joyce ACC. Father Malloy, Coach Lou Holtz, the U .P.I. National Championship Award presenter, and the Notre Dame football team will be in attendance. All welcome. -The Observer 
The Governor's Office of Indiana offers a one-year fellowship in state government to 10 graduating students from Indiana. A current Governor's Fellow (Notre Dame '88) will be at the Career and Placement conference room to discuss details of the program on Tuesday from 12:00 to 5:00p.m. Graduating Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students from all majors are encouraged to sign-up at the Career and Placement Office for the short informational sessions. -The Observer 
Applications are now available in the Office of Student Residences for positions of summer hall manager andt>r assistant manager. They may be picked up in Room 311 Administration Building. The deadline for return of applications is March 15, 1989. -The Observer 
TheapplicatlondeadlineistodayfortheWashington and Appalachia Seminars. Information at the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
AIESEC will have a general meeting today at 6:00p.m. in Room 124 Hayes-Healy. All are welcome. Any questions, please call Jeff Stark 283-3376. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame eating disorder survey today at 7:00p.m. in Breen-Phillips members of the University Counseling Center staff will present the results of the eating disorder survey conducted on campus last spring. 
-The Observer 

Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 
1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­
nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lee­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­
mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Childish toys can be fun for college-aged kids 
I was ambushed on my way home a couple of weeks ago. 
An innocent pedestrian, I was walking along, contemplating the earth-shattering question of whether there would be fresh lettuce on the salad bar at dinner when I rounded a corner 
and found myself staring into the muzzle of a revolver. 
Kate, my roommate, screamed "Die, suck­er!" and shot me at point-blank range with a small blue dart, then took off at breakneck speed. Expletives escaped my lips as I chased her back to the room, furious that I had been such an easy target. 
When I arrived at the room, I could hear laughter emanating from within, and I soon dis­covered why as turned the knob to open the door. She had locked me out. Luckily I had my keys with me. I opened the door carefully, guarding against another attack, but soon realized my fears were unfounded. Kate was happily playing with her mangled Slinky. (She had broken it the day before when she'd tried to jump rope with it.) I was safe, for the time being. 
We never have to worry about a lull in our room. The minute things take a turn for the humdrum my roommates and I pull out the Play Doh or the crayons. 
There are those who raise their eyebrows at us and dread the day that we become role models for the youth of America. They imagine what would happen if any of us ever ran for public office. I wonder if this is what Dan Quayle did in college. If he was anything like Kate, instead of concentrating on his govern­ment reading, he was busy losing his temper because Barbara Bush's Inaugural Ball photo­graph ~ould not come off on his Silly Putty. 
To those who raise their eyebrows at my roommates and I, including my 16-year-old sister who was shocked to discover when I ar­rived home for Christmas that college life had regressed me so much that she had become the oldest in the family, I have one thing to say: Bah Humbug! They shake their heads and write us off as a lost cause. Then they walk over to Sandy's gumball machine, turn the knob, and try to guess what color gumball will emerge. 
They are the types of people who are afraid to go into Toys R Us at the mall, and instead stare longingly inside. If they had gone in, they would probably have seen Kate, Sandy, Malini, and I at the counter buying Gummy Boogers for our SYR dates. They're probably closet Pez users too. 
Toys provide a release from the pressures of living that is unequalled by any other diversion. 
~------------------------~·: 
==Ihe_ObserYer---= 
Design EditOf' .................. Lisa Tugman Design AISistant ...... ... Ann Buff Typesetters ........................ Andy Schlidt .........•.....•......................Kurt Wilberding News Edi!Of'....................... Tim O'Keefe Copy Edi!Of' ......................... Greg Lucas Sport• Copy EditOf'.......... Scott Brutocao Viewpoint Copy EditOf' ....... Kelly Golden 
Viewpoint Layout ............... Kerri Owens Accent EditOf' ............... Robyn Simmons Accent Copy Editor ............. Mike Restle Typist . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Diana Bradley .............................................Will Zamer ND Day Editor ................... Katie Gugle .................................... Jennifer Richards SMC Day Editor .......... Rozel Gatmaitan 

ne u..r-(USPS 599 2--4000) is published Monday throu&h Friday except duriJia exam ud v~~ealioll periods. ne OMner is published by the students of the University of Notte Dame udSaint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be pun:bu­ed for S40 pet year (S25 per semester) by writina ne u..r-, P.O. Box Q, Notte 
Dame, ladiaaa 46556. ne OMnw is a member of ne "-da...·rn.. All reproduction ri&hts are raened. 
a 
! 
* 
: Is it a crime * ofpassion,
* or an act of treason? 

: * NOWAY 
:
* our 
~~ 

When I was considered young enough to openly enjoy such pursuits I was also too young to worry about my GPA, the nuclear dilemma, or the possible dangers of travelling. Instead of &).tting around, moping, and being bogged down by our problems, my roommates and I come home and play our unique version of Cops and Robbers or knock around our Donald Duck punching bag for awhile. 
Not that our view of toys is the same as it once was. When I was in Kindergarten I never thought to draw pictures with subliminal mes­sages or make phallic symbols out of the Play Doh. It certainly would not have occurred to rrie to play my game of Twister at a 'social gathering' where someone had spiked the Kool­Aid. And what three-year-old uses the plastic binoculars from the Pop Tart box to scope out the window? 
Not only that, a carefully selected toy can send. wonderful messages. Malini, for example, received an Old Maid game for her twentieth birthday. One of our friends who received a pair of handcuffs from us has since found a girlfriend. As he reads this, I wonder what our friend who got a Mr. Potatohead for his birthday thinks we were trying to say to him. 
As I write this, my embarassed roommates are holding a dart gun to my head and telling me to take it all back or they'll tell my Mommy about the bowling ball incident last weekend. They'll probably never let me build a blanket fort with them again. 
****************************************************** : SAINT MARY'S SAB PRESENTS: : 
* 
* 
: 
* ~ 
; 
* 
* 
:
* 
Alison Cocks 
"" 

Assistant . ' Production Manager 
D 

* 
* K £ V J N ( QSTN£R !: ;
* 
* 
(A R R QL L A U D * 
• !
6 * 
FEB. , 7, 8 : 9 & 1 1 : 15 p m ·: $1 : * 
sp 0 s 0 red by H0 ly a C H 11 d * 
ross a an * 
* 
! 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD! !* 
: ~n ONOi'f ~K;TURES RM8Se .,__, .l. ~ I ,I I ! 
: • o,..,.,...,.._.c-..............--1 SAUlT MARY"S COLLEGE ! 
* *
* * 
*****************************************************/, 
Monday, February 6, 1989 The Observer page 3 

Panel discussion will focus on N D diversity 

By SHANNON RYAN 
News Staff 
A panel discussion on the topic of "Cultural Diversity at Notre Dame: Past, Present and Future" will be held Feb. 13 at Theodore's. 
The panel will consist of six students representing varying ethnic backgrounds, Professor Erskine Peters, Professor Luis Fraga, and University Presi­dent Father Edward Malloy. President Emeritus Ted Hes­burgh will serve as mediator. 
The discussion will focus on such issues as racism I on campus and what the univer­sity can do to meet the cultural needs of minorities. 
The discussion is sponsored by the Multi-Cultural Execu­tive Council. 
IAMERICAN



f=w. 

"Basically, we hope to arouse the thoughts and feelings people have suppressed, to find out how they are feeling concerning these issues," said Mary Felice,. council member. "We want to find out how important cultural diversity is to the Notre Dame community -will it be forgotten when the year is over?" 
"With the different perspec­tives we'll get from the differ­ent cultures, we should be able to get a really good overview of cultural diversity," said Fred Tombar, assistant coord­inator of the event. 
"It's not often you have the opportunity to communicate directly with the president, as well as interact with the staff and students of every nationality," said Felice. 
The Observer 


HANS RINTZSCH 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT NIGHT 
A Continuing Saga Day One: Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students at a loss for entertainment. 
Act One: Our scene begins with a trio of glum faces seated in the library studyroom on the second floor. Welcome our stars. Bob, the slightly new-wave History major, Colleen, the easily bored (and boring) Chemical Engineer major, and then there is Jessica. Jessica is a sweet St. Mary's student majoring in Education, who is easily entertained. 
Bob: "When will they have some real excitement for us to groove to?" Colleen: "I have never found anything exciting except, of course, my studies." Jessica: "I just think that every1hing is exciting when I sit and hang around with my two best buddies." 
Stay tuned to tomorrow's episode when our stars may say: 
Bob: "Oh, how my pagan soul yearns to be free." Colleen: "I think you're being a little melodramatic." Jessica: "I really wish we had something special jus for 
us." (Heavy sigh) 

.~ 
FOR INFORMATION CALL 
233·2131

~ 

DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE WITH STUDENT I. D. AT: 
file OlleeMir/Kim 0~

The only way to travel 
Tim Degrinney, of Grace Hall, heads over to the golf The change in the weather over the weekend forced course for some cross country skiing last weekend. the transition from quad-football to winter sports. 

Leading newspaper reports that Botha might retire soon 
Associated Press 
President of South Africa 
P.W. Botha, who suffered a stroke Jan. 18, resigned Thursday as head of the Na­tional Party and was replaced the same day by National Edu­cation Minister F.W. de Klerk, who is considered Botha's heir as president. 
Botha said he will stay on as president, but he has appointed Constitutional Development Minister Chris Heunis as acting president while he recuperates. 
Doctors say the 73-year-old Botha is making a rapid recovery but will need at least another month before he can consider returning to work. 
Botha was not present for the opening of Parliament in Cape Town on Friday and has not been participating in the gov­ernment's day-to-day opera­tions, officials have said. 
The Sunday Times, the country's largest paper, said in a front-page story that Botha's decision to step down as party chief "is a prelude to complete withdrawal from public life." 
The newspaper, citing uni­dentified sources within the National Party, said Botha may retire "within weeks." 

The Sunday Star of Johannes­burg said in its front-page story that Botha's decision to relin­quish his party post has sown confusion, because National Party members now owe alle­giance to three leaders -
Botha, de Klerk and Heunis. 

''Botha has to retire from the presidency soon to solve the crisis," the newspaper re­ported, also citing unidentified sources within the National Party. 




=Ihe-=-ObserYer-___
= 

Applicatiqns are now being accepted for the following positions: 
Managing Editor Business Manager Systems Manager A three-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Chr1s Donnelly by 5 p.m. Wednesday, February 8. 
News Editor  Art Director  
Viewpoint Editor  Ad Design Manager  
Sports Editor  Advert~sing Manager  
Accent Editor  Production Manager  
Saint Mary's Editor  Controller  
Photo Editor  OTS Director  

A two-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Chris Donnelly by 5 p.m. Friday, February 10. 
----------~------------------------------------------------------~--------~--·--------------~~---------­
page4 The Observer Monday, February 6, 1989 

Bush ethics aide in conflict-of-interest controversy 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-The man in charge of President Bush's et­hics policy has found himself in the midst of a possible conflict-of -interest controversy because of his chairmanship of a multimillion dollar commu­nications company. 
C. Boyden Gray, who served as Bush's counsel when he was vice president and continues to serve in that capacity now that Bush is president, has told The Washington Post and The New York Times that he plans to continue serving as chairman of the family-owned company, Atlanta-based Summit Com­munications Group Inc. 
During his eight years as the vice president's counsel, Gray served as the paid chairman of the company, earning several hundred thousand dollars and reporting that on his annual fin­ancial disclosure forms. He told the newspapers that start­ing at the beginning of this year, he no longer was accept­ing fees for that job. 
"Due to my promotion· and due to the policies enunciated by (Bush) during the presiden­tial campaign, I cannot and I will not take outside income and so have instructed the fam­ily company," Gray told the Post. 
Gray also said he could func­tion without any conflict of in­terest both because he has removed himself since 1981 from any matters concerning communications and because he was not Summit's chief ex­ecutive or operating officer. He said he only devoted four to six days a year to overseeing the company. 
The Reagan White House had an unwritten policy that no White House officials should accept outside earned income or serve on the boards of out­side corporations, said Frank Nebeker, director of the Office of Government Ethics. The Times noted that this unwritten policy was mentioned in a 1983 written advisory opinion by the ethics office that was dis­tributed to all government et­hics officials, including Gray. 
Gray was not bound by those regulations because he worked for the vice president, and the policy in the vice president's of­fice there was more lenient, Gray's deputy, John Schmitz, told the Times. 
New Jbrk City Seattle Phoenix $99 roundtrip $99 roundtrip $99 roundtrip Denver Chicago Boston $99 roundtrip $99 roundtrip $99 roundtrip RJrt Lauderdale San Francisco Los Angeles $99 roundtrip $99 roundtrip $99 roundtnp $99 roundtrip airfares on Northwest Airlines. Aspecial offer for students,only for Atfterican Express Cardmembers. If you want to go places, it's time for the American And, of course, you'll enjoy all the exceptional Express® Card. benefits and personal service you would expect from Because now you can take advantage of new travel American Express. privileges on Northwest Airlines onlyforfull-time The only requirements for privileged travel: you students who carry the American Express Card must be a Cardmember, you must be a full-time stu­Travel privileges that offer: dent, and you must charge your Northwest Airlines -~ TWo $99 roundtrip tickets-fly to any of tickets with the Card.* NORTI-IWEST the mo_re than 18~ cities served ?Y North-Getting the Card is easier than ever because now AIRLINES west mth~ contiguous 48 Umted .states. you can apply by phone. Just calll-800-942-AMEX. LOOK TO us Only one ticket may be used per SIX-We'll take your application and begin to process it month period. right away. What's more, with our Automatic SpecialQuarterlyNorthw!stDestination Disrounts Approval offers, throughout1989-up to 25% off the lowest availablefare. you can qualify now 5,000 bonus miles in Northwest's WORLDPERKS(!!J while you're still in free travel program-where only 20,000 miles gets school. you a free roundtrip ticket to anywhere Northwest flies Apply now. Fly later in the contiguous 48 United States or Canada. -for less. Apply Now: 1-800-942-AMEX *Some restrictions. may apply. for complete offer details, calll-800-942-AMEX. Current student Cardmembers automatically receive two $99 vouchers in the mail. © 1989 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.  

J • t r. ' , • ' 
-~~~­

---...----------~----~-~~-~------~-----,---­
~-­
Monday, February 6, 1989 The Observer page·S 
Professor: Paraguay's leader is drug kingpin 

Associa~ed Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -New Paraguayan leader Gen. Andres Rodriguez is that country's "godfather of smug­gling" and his involvement in illegal drug traffic is widely known, an Indiana State Uni­versity professor said Satur­day. 
Rodriguez began consolidat­ing his power Saturday after ousting President Alfredo Stroessner from his 34-year rule. The violent coup Thursday has left an estimated 300 people dead. 
The new leader's involve­ment in drug smuggling "was common street knowledge," said John Williams, a professor of Latin American history at Indiana State University. 
"It's appeared in print in a number of places. There's never been an official indict­ment of him, however," Wil­liams said in a telephone inter­view with the Associated Press from his home in Terre Haute. 
"First of all, you have to take into consideration, smuggling of anything is the biggest single business in Paraguay. Rodriguez is the godfather of smuggling, everything from drugs to cigarettes to Scotch (whiskey) to Japanese transis­tors to Tinker Toys and the like. And that's no exaggeration. 
"He was the godfather in terms of providing protection, official sanction, safe routes, sometimes the actual con­veyances," Williams said. "He had an air taxi service there for many years." 
Smuggling became a major enterprise in Paraguay after Stroessner lowered import duties, and items often went through that country en route to Brazil, Argentina and other nations, Williams said. 
"You could literally drink Scotch cheaper than in any other country in the world,'-,..he said. 
Rodriguez is a career mili­tary man who was a confidant of Stroessner for at least two decades, Williams said. 
"He was in fact, up until1983, the muscle behind Stroessner,'' he said. "In 1983 they had a fal­ling out, but Rodriguez was so powerful that Sttoessner could not jail him or shoot him or anything. He was 'promoted' to a desk job where he had no con­trol of troops but had a fancy title." 
"I think it's bad for Paraguay. I really do. I'd have 
to  rate  Stroessner  ahead  of  
Rodriguez,  and  he  was  no  
charmer," he said.  

The United States should use diplomatic means to convince the Paraguayan leadership to move toward democracy, and that could happen under Rodriguez, Williams said. 
A group of "Wheel of Fortune" hopefuls gathers in Theodore's Friday afternoon to compete for a spot 
Now everyone will be looking 
at us."

Wheel 
continued from page 1 
The chosen four will fly, at the show, you say you can play their own expense, to Burbank, it better than the contestants. California for the AprilS taping 
LEGAL AID 
offers Free legal counseling to 
N.D. students, faGultv & staff. 
Call 239-7795 , 
or visit downstairs N.D. Law School 

HAPPY 21n'B 
TO THAT 
\Wl~ [b[Q) 
\Wl©~~[N] 

Catherine O'Leary! 
Love, Rachel, Kathy, Allison Kelly, Anne, Brigid,and 
John 

the eastern Afghanistan city of Shindand to the Soviet border city of Kushka. 
The report said that in the western sector, two columns had left Shindand heading towards Kushka on the Soviet border. 
"Soviet units will leave Shin­dand on the 6th February," the radio was quoted as saying·. 

sidered an institution," Skurski said. 
"Calling the lounge 'Wad~ 

dick's' started as a joke, but tending to go to law school, said then we said, we should do Skurski. "He's certainly been this," said Skurski. "He really around long enough to be con-has the best interests of all the 
students at heart." 
In a letter persuading faculty to use Waddick's, Skurski noted that no classroom space would be lost due to the lounge. In fact, one classroom was gained in the process. 
LINCOLNWOOD MOTEL 3300 L.W.W. (US 20) Under New Management Open 24 hours 
All modern clean units 
(219) 234-4063 


Rooms still available for JPW and SMC Sophomore' Parents Weekend. 
Approzimately 7 miles from campus 
Reasonable rates for our King Leisure and Double Bedded Rooms 
Call for reservations 
Indiana Toll Free 1-800-922-7750 or 219 256-2300 



LINDA ''G'' ENRIGI,. 

PUCKERS UP FOR HER ~~~tr~ 
WE LOVE YOU, BINDA-BEAN! 
KATE, LIZ, CHRISSY, THERESA, DATIE, JIM, JOSHN, LISA, AND BRYAN 
Gone 
continued from page 1 
pullout in August and resumed it January, when convoys of tanks, trucks and armored per­sonnel carriers started began up the Salang Highway toward th& Soviet border 260 miles away. 

Exile 
continued from page 1 
to be identified told The Asso­ciated Press. 
About half an hour later, the plane landed in the small town of Itumbiara in the central Brazilian state of Goias, an air force official said in Brasilia. According to the source, who asked not to be identified, Stroessner was to drive by car, about 100 miles southwest to a 
Soviet and Afghan officials said over the weekend there were about 1,000 Soviet soldiers still in Afghanistan and that they could be gone as early as Wednesday. 
The report said that although troops had moved from Kabul, there still were troops in other areas of Afghanistan moving toward the Soviet border. It said troops were moving from 
Najib 
continued from page 1 
ered in freezing temperatures near the presidential palace. 
In neighboring Pakistan, So­viet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze extended talks on the civil war. Guerrilla sources said he would meet Monday with the Moslem guer­rillas fighting the Soviet­backed Afghan government. 
farm in Uberaba, located in southeastern Minas Gerais. 
It was not known how long Stroessner intended to stay on a farm in rural Uberaba or why that particular place had been chosen. 
"It is up to the Brazilian gov­ernment to chose the place Stroessner will go at least ini­tially," Paraguayan ambassador Salvador Paredes ' said in the federal capital of Brasilia. 
of the "College Week." Once in Burbank, three of the students will be chosen at random to play in the competition. The fourth will compete in a regular episode of "Wheel" to be taped on April 9. No air date has been set for the show. 
Notre Dame will compete in three of the four preliminary games against the Universities of Miami, Oklahoma and Hawaii, during which the stu­dents will acquire cash and merchandise for themselves. The top three teams .will prog­ress to the fifth and final game, during which they will acquire c.ash for their universities. Stu­dents on the team will deter­mine which student will play in the final round. 
"I always thought, 'That wot1ld be so fun,' " said Valus. "I never thought I would make it through the whole process. I'm in shock." 
When asked what they will do with their earnings, the stu­dents had various replies. Ban­non said he hopes to win a lot to "pay off tuition loans and get merchandise to go in my house." Valus hopes to be able to pay her parents back for all the things she's borrowed. She adds, "Actually, a car wouldn't be so bad either." 
~--------------------~------------------~.............-­







ICEBERG DEBATES 









SECOND ROUND AND CONSULATION ROUND 
·9:00 P.M.

"That by Fall semester of 1990, this university should convert three undergraduate residence halls for use as optional coresidential housing for all undergraduates." 

Lewis (pro) Fisher (con) Flanner (pro) Cavanaugh (pro) Pasquerilla West (con) Pasquerilla East (pro) Lyons (con) 
hosts hosts hosts hosts hosts hosts 
hosts 

Alumni (con) Badin (pro) Farley (con) Zahm (con) Stanford (pro) St. Edwards (con) Sarin (pro) 
Dillon (pro) hosts Grace I (con) hosts Pangborn (pro) hosts Knott (pro) hosts Keenan (pro} hosts Walsh (con) hosts Siegfried (con) hosts 
Carroll (con) Breen Phillips (pro) Howard (con) Grace II (con) Holy Cross (con) Morrissey (pro) 
Off-Campus (pro) 

--------------~--~----~-------------------· ----­
Viewpoint

Monday, February 6, 1989 page 7 
Coed housing to be debated tonight 
Notre Dame has its problems· at least that's what 1 hear. Students' tell me the social life is not so good. They say there's not much to do. A lot of guys say that it's hard to meet women; some of the women say it's hard to meet the right kind of guy. And sometimes, when social life is the issue and the menwomen thing is discussed, students say, "What we need here is coed housing. That will make it a lot better." 
Kerry Temple 
guest column 

I hear about other problems. Students tell me they wish faculty were more accessible. The students would like to meet with them informally to talk about things on their minds. But, they con­tinue, the faculty are under so much pressure to research, publish and act scholarly that they don't have time for us. 
I hear faculty saying that what the students really care about is their G P A, that they are not intellectually curious, are not inclined to challenge faculty members in class, mu.ch less drop by their offices to talk informally--even when their doors are open. When I talk with rectors or administrators about students, they say too many students are so into academics that they don't see the wider world, they're not as in­terested in social justice issues as they should be. And a university is a place where awareness should be raised, where all these topics should be dis­cussed openly, where intellects should clash. 
Sometimes I hear how the graduate students are leit out of the equation, held on the periphery of university life. 
When I hear the griping (and a lot of it, I think, is on the mark) I am dis­ppointed that so many false and in­visible barriers exist at a place like NotreDame.Mterall,itisarelatively small university, with a somewhat con­tained campus, with a lot of bright and earnest people--and a place that, in its literature and public image, prides it­self on being a community, a family, a university where ideas are discussed and people care about each other. Get­ting people together shouldn't be a problem here; nor should lively con­versations about things more important than, well, where the next party is and where you're going on spring break and how much Nancy's starting salary will be. 
Th~ reason I'm talking about all t~is now 1s because some people are trymg something that could help solve some ~f these imperfections in the quality of life around here. It's the Iceberg Debates. The idea is that if we can es­tablish a debate series that prompts students to discuss some meaty sub­jects, we can enhance some understanding, spark some learning, maybe challenge values, morals and beliefs: The emphasis is on the aware­ness here, not on debating style (leave that to the law students). 
But the organizers have other mo­tives in mind. For example, the teams have been set up to bring men and wo­men together into partnership, not so~ely as co~peti~ors. The debates ~re bemg held m res1dence halls, to g1ve men. and ~omen a reason to enter ~orelgn terr~tory · Faculty hav:e gott~n mvolved a~ Judges and as adviSors--m order to bndge that. gap, ~o get students and professors talkmg ~1th each other. Grad students are available as consul­tants or mentors or whatever to get them (again, at least peripherally) par­ticipating. 
The ·whole scheme appears to be a neat fit with a lot of the problems people gripe about. It's even scheduled for winter (hence, "Iceberg" Debates) in privacy, that they like the friendships establ~shed by li~ing with females only, that smgle-sex hving enables them to conce.ntrat~ on their s~hoolwork, that ~orm1tory 1s home and 1t'~ best to keep 1t as comfortable as poss1ble. Others-­m~n a_nd women--are a~are of the c~m­phcations that may ariSe from puttmg young m~es. and females together in closepro.x~mlty,andnotonlythesexual comp~ex1b~s. ~thers m~y saycor~s1de_nt~al housmg woul~ diSrupt th~ res1~enbahty con~ept wh1~h the Um­yers1ty so ~ppropr1ately prizes, or.that ~~ ":ould s~~al an end t? ~~e Umver­s1ty s trad1bonal respons1bil1ty for stu­
o.rder to combat the seasonal hiberna-dent morals, etc., or that it would bon. alienate alumni and benefactors. 
Finally, the topic for this Monday's I'll leave all this to the debaters--and debates (held from 9 to 10 p.m. in to those responsible for such decisions. various residence halls) is coed The point, though is that here's an housing. Specifically: "That by the fall opportunity to bring the issue out in the semester of 1990, this university should open and discuss it reasonably. The rae­convert three undergraduate residence ulty judges will summarize their fin-halls. for use as optional coresidential dings and there's even a question-and­housmg for all undergraduates." answer period following the formal 
Now this, too, just might be a solution debate (which in the first round made to some of the pro~lems around here. fo; some good give-and-take). Perhaps, Perhaps coed housmg would make for w1th the issue properly clarified and more natural, more realistic and student sentiment more focused the healthier relationships between the topic may stay on the table for further sexes--and thus a vastly improved so-serious consideration. cial life. Maybe by living closely with Meanwhile, attendance and support women, men will see them as unique of the Iceberg Debates gives you a individuals, not as stereotypes or sex chance to be part of the solution to the objects or mysterious aliens. And this problems everyong is talking about. .mature, whole-person view will be the impression graduates will take with Kerry Temple is managing editor of them into the world. Notre Dame Magazine and a member 
Or maybe women will say that having ofthe Iceberg Debates consultant com-guys around would be an invasion of mittee. 


Results of eating disorder survey 
Editor's note: The following is the second in a series of five articles dealing with eating disorders. 
Last spring the University Counsel­ing Center conducted a survey among the undergraduate women at Notre Dame. Here are the results of that sur­vey. 
Susan Steibe 
guest column 

What is the occurrence of binge eating among Notre Dame women? 
According to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders­Revised, (DSM 111-R) published by the American Psychiatric Association, a binge is a ''rapid consumption of a large amount of food in a discrete period of time during which one experiences a lack of control over eating behavior." From the Notre Dame Eating Disor­ders Survey conducted by the Univer­sity Counseling Center and completed by 967 women students in Spring, 1988, approximately 69% report engaging in binge eating. 
How does a 69% occurrence of binge eating among Notre Dame women com­pare with other studies of binge eating among college students? 
Hawkins and Clement (1980) reported that 79% of female college undergrad­uates in their sample and 49% of college male undergraduates reported binge eating occurrences. Halmi et al (1981) also reported a high rate of binge eating in a college population (68.1% of females and 60.2% of males). Sinoway (1982) surveyed female college stu­dents and found 47% of the group to report binge eating. Pyle et al (1983) found 57.4% of college freshwomen to admit binge eating episodes. Thus, the occurrence of Notre Dame women who appear to engage in binge eating is comparable to other studies of college students, with some variation. 
Do "normal" eaters binge? 

No, normal eaters do not binge. It does appear, however, according to both our survey results and other studies of eating behavior, that being concerned about one's weight is consid­ered "normal." From the Notre Dame Eating Disorders Survey, 319 or 33.2% of the respondents were classified as "normal" eaters, i.e. no evidence of an eating disorder according to DSM 111-R criteria or the absence of symptoms that would warrant an "at risk" clas­sification. None of these women report present binge eating. 
What is the average age that women begin to binge eat? 
From the results of the Notre Dame Survey approximately 70% of those re­spondents who report binge eating began before coming to Notre Dame. Most of these women (50%) began to binge eat during high school. The remainder of the respondents (20%) report their age of onset for binge eating as younger than 13 years. 
Does having someone in one's family who has a problem with food increase one's chances of developing an eating disorder? 
The Eating Disorder Survey of Notre Dame women sought to explore the re­lationship between having a family member who has a problem with food and oneself having a problem with food. Survey results demonstrate that for wo­men who have a serious eating disor­der, one in two report that a family member has a problem with food; for women at risk for an eating disorder, one in four report the same; and for women with normal eating behavior, one in eight report that a, family mem­ber has a-problem with food. Thus, the more serious the eating problem one has, the more likely there is a family member who shares the problem. 
Does having someone in the family with an alcohol, drug, or food problem cor­relate with the development of an eating disorder? 
The Eating Disorder Survey of Notre Dame women attempted to gain infor­mation regarding the relationship be­tween having a family member with a substance abuse problem and one's own development of an eating disorder. The results of the survey demonstrate that, for women with normal eating behav­ior, one in five report a family member with a drinking or drug problem. For women with a serious eating disorder or with some symptoms of an eating disorder, that number increased to one in three who report a family member with a drinking or drug problem. Thus, there does appear to be a positive cor­relation between having a family mem­ber with a substance abuse problem and one's own development of an eating disorder. 
What is the average age that women begin to engage in self-induced vomit­ing, the use of laxatives, and/or strict dieting/fasting in order to prevent weight gain? 
From the data gathered from our Eating Disorder Survey, we learned that with regard to self-induced vomit­ing, approximately 59% of our respon­dents report the age of onset at younger than 18 years of age; 49% used laxa­tives as a method of losing weight before they were 18 years old; and an astounding 84% of our respondents report using strict dieting as a method to prevent weight gain before coming to Notre Dame. (Thirty-one percent of this 84%, or 144 women, report engag­ing strict dieting at younger than 13 years of age.) 
Susan Steibe, Ph.D. is a psychologist at the University Counseling Center 
Editorial Board Oflerations Board


-~e-O.bse..~~r-­
--=-.L-ll ----&~~=-'-' --·­

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 Editor-m-Ch1er., . Chns Murphy Busmess Manager .. John Ox rider 
Managing Ed1tor Chris Donnelly Advertising Des1gn Manager .. Molly Killen News Editor Regis COCc1a Advertising Manager L1nda Goldschmidt 
The Observer 1s the Independent newspaper published by the students ot the UmverSity of News Editor . Mark Mclaughlin Prodvction Manager. . Bernadette ShiHs Notre Dame duLac and Sa~nt Mary·s College. It does not necessanly reflect the polic1es of Viewpoint Edi(ul ..... Dave Bruner Systems Manager Mark Ridgeway the adm~n1strat1on of e1ther 1nshtut1on. The news is reported as accurately and obJectively as Sports Editor . 
. . Marty Strasen Controller .. Todd Hardiman poss1ble. Uns1gned editonals represent the op1nion of the maJOrity of the Editorial Board. Accent Editor Beth Healy Graph1c Arts Manager. Marga Bruns Commentanes. letters and the Jns1de Column present the views of their authors Column Saint Maris Editor Sandy Cerimele space IS ava1lable to all members of the commumty and the free express1on of vary1ng Photo Editor .. Michael Moran op1mons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 
-

-----------~---~------------­
Monday, February 6, 1989



Viewpoint
~age 8 

P.O. Box Q 
Grad student wokshop tonight 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to take this opportunity 
to invite all graduate students to attend 
the first in the series of Graduate Stu­
dent Union workshops on graduate stu­
dent life tonight at 7 p.m. in Theodore)s. 
I am convinced that these workshops 
can provide an excellent vehicle for 
graduate students to express their con­
cerns, and for the University adminis­
tration to learn first-hand about their 
experiences and their needs. I therefore 
encourage every graduate student to 
join me tonight to share their ideas 
about how to make Notre Dame a better 
place. 
Father Edward Malloy President of the University Feb. 6, 1989 


Reading Sl not only activity at ND 
-
Dear Editor: 
While it may not be the weekend, we, 
as men of Notre Dame, decided not to 
wait to heed Ms. Marley's suggestion 
for our social lives. We have decided to 
pull out all our old editions of Sports 
Illustrated's swimsuit issue, ogle them, 
drink beer, and criticize Notre Dame 
women. Seriously, isn't that what we 
do every weekend? We think not. 
Speaking for a sample of the Notre Dame men, and perhaps many, yes, we do enjoy looking at beautiful women in swimsuits. We are guilty on that ac­count. However, as some of us are car­rying as many· as 24 credits, work in excess of 12 hours a week, and are still able to enjoy a more than satisfactory social life, we believe that it would be quite impossible for us to peruse the pages of Sports Illustrated for half of our week, as she suggests. 
Let us further look at how Ms. Marley has chosen to incriminate Notre Dame men as the bad guys. In a totally sexist remark, she claims there are " ...two prevailing sentiments...at Notre Dame. There are men with bad atti­tudes about women and women with bad attitudes about themselves." Yes, these conditions do exist, but we believe that just as prevalent are women with bad attitudes about men and men with bad attitudes about themselves. 
While a large amount of the blame for men with bad attitudes about them­selves can be attributed to the infamous ratio, it still exists. We cannot begin to count the number of times that we have tried to find dates for a dance and been told, "I'm already 'going to another dance." Unlike Ms. Marley, we will not blame the women for this; this is an administrative problem. But, as there are men who will only ask out beautiful women. there do exist women on this campus who will only date varsity ath­letes or great looking guys. For this, these women are as responsible as their male counterparts. 
As far as Ms. Marley's insinuation 
that we consider the attractive women 
here "homely," in comparison to the 
Doonesbury 
GOOf? LORI?... 
WHAT'S 
6U/35SWHAT 
"THAT, 
Mil<&<!
I JUST FOUN[).' 



I ·I 

Sports Illustrated models, that is a 
ridiculous statement. Of course, 
Paulina and Elle Macpherson are in­
credibly beautiful women. But Notre 
Dame women are, on the whole, attrac­
tive, classy, and intelligent. Many of us 
would be more than happy to, as Ms. 
Marley would say, "settle" for that 
combination. 

In conclusion, an analysis of the final 
point of this inside column is necessary. 
Maybe it is true that men spend much 
time criticizing the women here. We 
believe that this is done quite often out 
of frustration instead of malice. If the 
men who are complaining have made 
no efforts towards dating the women 
here, then they are in the wrong. 
However, some sympathy and under­
standing must go out to those who have 
made efforts and had to face rejection. 
Believe us, we have actually tried 
(gasp) asking out a woman or getting 
to know one and we have indeed met 
quite a few genuinely interesting wo­
men. 

We do have one major problem, 
though. From the article it seems that 
Ms. Marley is upset with the unequal 
treatment of women in the Sports Il­
lustrated swimsuit issue. While we 
have no control over-any national 
publication, we have some influence in 
what occurs at Notre Dame. Collective­
ly, it seems that we cannot recall ever 
being asked out by a Notre Dame wo­
man. Perhaps if women would actually 
try (double gasp) asking out Notre 
Dame men, this situation would be rec­
tified. 

Mike Basile Pat Mulhern Rich Zell Dave Kelly Bart Fox Flanner Hall Jan. 31, 1989 
Swimsuit column fuels animosity 
Dear Editor: 

I am outraged by the generalizations that your Assistant News Editor, Sara Marley, made in the Inside Column on Jan. 31. She grouped every young man at Notre Dame as worthless slime that gets "cheap thrills" from "photos of bodacious females" in the annual Swimsuit Issue of Sports Illustrated. She also went as far as to mention Playboy and Penthouse magazines. This issue is not as one-sided as the column made it out to be. 
Not all of us will look at this issue of SI, go to our afternoon classes, and ask, "Gee, why can't more of these girls look like Elle Macpherson?" To say that the men of Notre Dame do, is unfair. We do not live in a world of passing physical beauty and apperances, we live in a world with real people as students. 
But what outraged me most is the fact that the article said that we criticize women in a "conspiritive way." I, for one, do not sit with my friends on weekends, conspiring, drink­ing beer (another unfounded generalization), and. talking about how ugly Notre Dame women are. Besides, 
OW WVe l&rreRS FROM COt/B3e! I THOUGHTI THJ<aA/ 7H&M OUT YeARS AGO/ __,..,"_v,...,,...., 

I, like most women, am "too busy to do that anyway." 
I do not deny that there are social problems on the campus of Notre Dame. But, (gasp) I have dated girls and have tried to get to know some of them. However, when a column like this is written, fuel is added to the flames of our social ineptitude. 
Joe Bratetich Stanford Hall Feb. 1, 1989 

Criticism of Sl went too far 
Dear Editor: 
When we started reading Sara Mar­ley's article, "Sports Illustrated Sinks in Swimsuit Issue," we thought it was just another message condemning sexist exploitation of women. However, we tried to read it with an open mind. We now feel she went a step too far in criticizing Notre Dame men and wo­men. We feel the SI swimsuit issue plays a very minor role in the topics she presented. 
When one walks into any typical Notre Dame girl's dorm room, one finds at lleast one poster with muscular men wearing "well, almost nothing." Why do women buy these posters? Is it for the "simple aesthetic appreciation" of handsome men, or for the fine pho­tography? Upon seeing these· posters do Notre Dame men develop an in­feriority complex? Perhaps. But only those who are already insecure about themselves will be perturbed by such sexually explicit posters. 
Marley states that SI gives women bad attitudes about themselves. Do men develop bad attitudes about them­selves when they look at GQ or fitness magazines? We think not. On the con­trary, these publications may provide a push in the direction of better physical fitness. Why can't women provide a more positive attitude about bettering themselves? In a sense, Ms. Marley puts down women by insinuating they are shallow enough to be seriously worried about comparing themselves with the "goddesses" in Sl. 
In her article, Ms. Marley states that "there is no national campaign in which women devote a week to gazing at photos and wishing their husbands and boyfriends looked like. Greg Louganis or Tom Selleck." Instead there are year-long Chippendale calendars avail­able. Honestly, would a typical woman rather go out with Tom Selleck or a Dom DeLuise look-alike? She also states that women are "too busy" to think about what they wish their hus­bands or boyfriends to look like. What permits Notre Dame men to have more time to think about the ideal woman? Is it less time spent studying, working, or going to classes? Hardly. 
Ms. Marley has one good point. She suggests that more Notre Dame guys should actually try to get to know more Notre Dame women. We agree with this wholeheartedly, except we feel the swimsuit issue should not be used-as a 
Garry Trudeau 

IT's TRL/E. 7H&R&IUAS ELAINe KOVICHI ANINNO­GOO, SHE CE:NCE,A WAS HOT! l-057... 
/ scapegoat for the lack of social inter­action on campus. And besides, what's wrong with girls asking guys out? These are the 80's, you know. 
Jose Martinez Sigi Loya Mike Satton Flanner Hall Feb. 1, 1989 

USA gives world empty rhetoric 
Dear Editor: 
When, oh when, will we learn? For how long will the citizens of the United States, the most free society in the world, refuse to avail themselves of the wealth of information regarding our country's misdeeds? 
The latest American atrocities in Nicaragua should come as no surprise to Americans. The destabilization of popular governments has become a way of life for a populace in the grip of anti-communist paranoia. In Iran we sowed the seeds for fervent anti­American sentiment by installing the late Shah in a coup d'etat. He carried out a murderous and brutally oppres­sive campaign to Westernize his country over the often courageously vehement objections of his people. Many hated him and us, praying for the day that Allah would liberate them from the long, oppressive arm of the Americans. The day came, but not before thousands were slaughtered by American policies. 
What ever happened to popular will expressed through people's choice of their own government? Have we no confidence that capitalism and free markets can beat out communism in a fair contest? Why resort to contras and other CIA operations? 
Why do we refuse to acknowledge our role as voting citizens who can change our country's policies in the murder and oppresion of innocent peasants by American-supported bandits in El Sal­vador, Guatemala, and Nicaragua? 
The United States differs from the USSR in that "we the people" sup­posedly control our government. Thus it is with the nod of our collective heads that our government quashes the will of the people around the globe. Until we act responsibly, all the U.S.A. is giving the world is a basketful of empty rhetoric. 
Sean Ellington 
Off-Campus 
Feb. 3, 1989 

The.  Observer  retains  
the  right  to  edit  all  
commentaries  submit­ 

ted to the Viewpoint department. Please note that the more concise the piece, the less we will have to edit it to fit our space. 

Quote of the Day 
"He who is silent consents." 
" 

Ancient Proverb 

page 9

Monday, February 6, 1989 
--~ 






Accent 
ISO presents multicultural music 

MARY BERGER accent writer 
We know all about the traditions of Notre Dame. They are everywhere. This weekend, however•, the Notre Dame community had a chance to celebrate in the traditions of the world. Satur­day night, the International Student Organization enter­tained a sold-out Washington Hall crowd with its Interna­tional Festival, "a night of songs and dances from all over the world." The evening was the cul­mination of weeks of prepara­tion and hours of practice. According to Ramzi Bualuan, chairman of the Festival and also one of the emcees, ap­proximately 170 people from over 30 countries participated in this year's show, making it the biggest one the ISO has ever produced. There were folk songs, piano pieces, and a gospel song. One song from the nor­thern part of India "extolled the beauty of the rains after a dry and hot summer." A "jota," or regional song, from the northern part of Spain told the story of someone who wishes he or she were ivy in order to climb up the walls of his or her beloved's home and 
~P..homore LiterarY Festival 
Poet Walcott is a genuine virtuoso 
GERRY SCIMECA accent writer 
W 
hen Derek Walcott takes the stage of the library auditorium Monday night, the Sophomore Literary Festival will be flaunting one of the biggest prizes in modern literature. Accepted as one of our day's greatest poets, his works have been continuously celebrated over the past four decades, and his appearance tonight features him at the height of his celebrity. 
His most recent anthology, "Collected Poems 1948-1984" won the Los Angeles Times Book Prize for poetry. This anthology contains much of the prize-winning verse which displays his romantic vision and his shimmering ability to turn his attention to any sub­ject of human-kind and build a roaring bonfire out of a spark of perception. 
Originally from St. Lucia in the West Indies, Walcott first 
Calvin and Hobbes 
see how he or ~he sleeps. 
Also, the Voices of Faith En­
semble inspired the audience 
with a taste of their sweet 
sounds, singing "Wake Up to 
Jesus.'' 
Some of the acts, like the Hawaiian and the Irish groups, doubled the audi­ence's pleasure by both sing­ing and qancing. A local traditional Irish group, for example, performed a selec­tion of jigs, and four people from the ND community per­formed a dance which was created for the inauguration of Father Malloy. 
And then there were the dances. There were fast­stepping and hat-dancing numbers from Mexico, a medley of Latin dances performed by the NDI SMC Ballroom Dance, and a floral fan dance from Korea. A vic­tory dance from the island of Bali involved intricate eye and hand movements to fast­paced music, while a festive Malaysian dance usually reserved for weddings and special occaisions mes­morized the audience with its rhythmic fluidity and the dan­cer's graceful arm move­ments. 
Two of the evening's acts almost brought the audience to its own feet. The first was 
gained wide acclaim in the 
'50s with his third book of . .' poetry entitled "Poems" and from there has steadily built loon his reputation with a
, 
~..........~~·---.
if 
prolific body of work and a style regarded by some as ''sponsored by Shakespeare and the Bible." His large body of work has won numerous awards and prizes, and his many anthologized collections are attributed to the importance his work has in contemporary poetry. 
f>.1-\D IF I'M S\ll.'iii'IG 1-\0M't, 
TI-\~T MEAl-IS "iCl\J'V't. GOTIE!o\ ME />. \:lAB'( ~11\ER., RIG\1T? 
A1-\D 1llAT MEN{'S Y<JJ'IIt. ~BL'i \\IRED ROSALYN, 

the merengue, a dance which originated in the Dominican Republic and which has be­come one of the most popular rhythms in Latin America. The seven couples who · merengued Saturday night had such fun doing it that they had the audience hooting and hollering right along. 
The other spectacular dance was a Filipino one called "tinikling." The dan­cers perform intricate steps and turns between and around bamboo poles that are pounded together. This act had the audience holding its breath for the safety of the performers' feet and drew a 
The subjects of his work are mainly autobiographical, such as the bittersweet "Another Life," which many have called arguably the best long auto-biographical poem in the English language. His poems are often filled with romantic visions of a world that could be, tempered with the melancholy of reality. 
"The Season of Phantasmal 
Peace" starts: 
"Then all the nations of birds lifted togetheli the huge net of the shadows of this earti:Y in multitudinous dialects, twittering tongues; stitching and crossing it../ and this season lasted one moment, like the pause! be­tween dusk and darkness, be­tween fury and peace/ but, for such as our earth is now, it lasted long." 
Partial towards descriptive excesses, Walcott paints vivid pictures with his prose and injects them with an atmo­sphere that creates a moving 
. Bill Watterson 

hearty round of applause at its dramatic end. 
During all of the.....acts, elab­orate beaded and fringed cos­tumes were worn. One act, the Folkloric Fashion Show, however, focused entirely on the clothes of the world. Dresses, saris, shirts and suits from Malaysia, India, the Philippines, Vietnam, Korea, Pakistan, Mexico and Ecuador were some of the fashions modelled. 
Bualuan wrote in the show's program that the ISO takes "pride in presenting a show that <they) feel truly sym­bolizes the essence of the Year of Cultural Diversity" 
sense of place, which is often his tropical home. In "Miss­ing the Sea" he longs for the familiar: "Some sound like the gnashing of windmills ground! To a dead halt ;I A deafening absence, a blow." 
"Midsummer, Tobago" is a reflection on the passage of life viewed from the stage of his home: 
"-Broad sun-stoned beaches/-White heat/ A green river/-A bridge/ Scorched yellow palms/-from the sum1p.er-sleeping house! 

Festival Calendar 
T 
he schedule of events for the 1989 Sophomore Literary Festival is as follows: 
Monday, Feb. 6. 11 a.m.: Workshop with T.C. Boyle, Library Lounge. 8 p.m. : Derek Walcott reading, Stepan Center. 
Tuesday, Feb. 7 Noon :Derek Walcott workshop, Library Lounge. 8 p.m. : Reginald Gibbons reading, Library 
Auditorium. ' Wednesday, Feb. 8 11 a.m.: Workshop with Reginald Gibbons, Library Lounge. 
8 p.m. : Meg Wolitzer, Sue Miller readings, Library Auditorium. Thursday, Feb. 9 
10 a.m.: Workshop with Meg Wolitzer, Library 
Lounge. 11 a.m.: Workshop with Sue Miller, Library Lounge. 8 p.m. : Lisel Mueller reading, Library Auditorium. 
Friday, Feb. 10 11 a.m.: Workshop with Lisel Mueller, Library Lounge . 8 p.m. : Stuart Dybek reading, Library Auditorium. Saturday, Feb. 11 . Noon : Workshop with Stuart Dybek, Library Lounge. 
at Notre Dame. Saturday night, the group did an ab­solutely splendid and riveting job of "promoting awareness of different cultures from around the world," with each performer sharing his o'r her talents and countries' tradi­tions with the crowd. 
A lively, educational, new tradition has begun on campus, and it can only be hoped that, for years to come, the Notre Dame community will continue to embrace and be dazzled by the intricate footwork and melodious sounds which reminded us this weekend that it is "a small world after all." 
drowsing through August/­Days I have held/ days I ~ave lost;-days that outgrow, like daughters; my harboring arms." 
Most sophomore core classes have some of Wal­cott's works on their reading lists. For them, or indeed for anyone familiar with Walcott or simply a lover of poetry, tonight's presentation will provide a unique and enjoy­able opportunity to meet the poet and hear him read from his own works. 
-

-
··* 
-
Monday, February 6, 1989

page 10 The Observer 

SPORTS BRIEFS Belles ~plit weekend games 
The ND men's tennis team defeated Ohio State 5-4 By HEATHER ATKINSON strong team this year,'' said co­Mary's had trouble getting bySaturday at Columbus, Ohio. Further details of the match Sports Writer ach Marvin Wood. "All fifteen their speed and offensive abil­will appear in Tuesday's issue of The Observer. -The Ob­of our girls got at least twelve ities. ,

server 

The Saint Mary's basketball munutes of playing time in the The ND wrestling team lostto Oklahoma 19-16 Friday 
team wrapped up a two-month game and everyone played Coach Wood said this was one at Norman, Okla. Further details of the dual meet will 
long stretch of away games equally well." of the best defensive games of appear in Tuesday's issue of The Observer. -The Observer 
with a win and a loss over the Saint Mary's had three the season for Saint Mary's, but weekend. players in double figures. its offense was just out of syncAt Anderson College Friday Cathy Restovich led with 13 the entire game and it had trou­
Joe Morrison, head football coach at the University of. 

night, Saint Mary's captured points, Anne Gallagher had 12 ble getting position and goodSouth Carolina, died Sunday night of a heart attack. He an easy 77-52 victory. The and Linda Garrett added 11. shots. 
was 51. -The Observer 

Belles took the lead early in the Gallagher and Garrett also game and never allowed their held up defensively as they "Our defense was great and Irish Outdoors is holding the spring semester 
opponents to catch up. pulled down seven and six we really created some prob­Saint Mary's led by as much rebounds, respectively. lems for them, but we just
information meeting Thursdayat 7:30p.m. in the Notre Dame room on the second floor of LaFortune. Plans for 

as 32 points at one time in the The Belles were unable to couldn't get our offense going," game and was on top 40-22 at keep their momentum going said Wood. "Our reservethe spring break trip to the TeTons will be reviewed. Any the half. The 25-point spread Saturday night and were strength is beginning to makequestions should be directed to Shaun Foley at 271-0758. 
between the two teams at the defeated, 60-57, by Franklin some major contributions for
-The Observer 

end of the game was the closest College. the team, but Saturday we justAnderson ever got. Franklin is one of the top couldn't do what we wanted
SMC co-ed intramural floor hockey captains 

"Anderson just isn't a very teams in the district and Saint and what we usually do well."
have a meeting at 6 p.m. Tuesday at the Angela Athletic Facility lounge. Floor hockey games will be on Thursday nights. For more information, call284-5549. -The Observer 

Calcavecchia captures LA Open
The N[)SMC Lacrosse Club will hold a meeting Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility lounge 

Associated Press way bunker in the 1988 trying to beat Sandy." 
for any women interested in forming such a team. -The Masters.
Observer 

LOS ANGELES--There were "It never even crossed my Calcavecchia, who won his no miracle shots from the sand mind," Calcavecchia said. second tournament of · the Student managers: An informational meeting is 
this time; not even the thoughts "Sandy's a great guy, a great season, finished with a 272 Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Joyce ACC auditorium for all 
of one, and Mark Calcavecchia player. How can you be mad at total, 12-under par on the those interested in being student managers. Enter through 
held on to beat Sandy Lyle by a guy who hits one of the great Riviera Country Club course Gate 2. Anybody who cannot attend the meeting should 
a stroke Sunday in the Los An­shots in history and then makes that was still sodden from the call the managers' office at 239-6482. -The Observer 
geles Open. birdie on top of it? There was rains the disrupted play Friday Calcavecchia looked up with no revenge factor involved. I and Saturday. A racquetball clinic will be offered by NVA Tuesday 
an expression of mild surprise was just trying to win the golf from 7 to 8 p.m. for beginning and intermediate players. 
when asked if his comeback tournament. It wasn't impor­Calcavecchia, who won by Noel O'Sullivan will cover shots and strategy. Meet at 
victory promoted any tant to me that I beat Sandy. It seven shots in Phoenix two Racquetball Court 2 of the Joyce ACC. -The Observer 
memories of his loss to Lyle's didn't matter whether he was weeks ago, won for the fifth magnificent shot from a fair-second or third or 50th. I wasn't time of his PGA tour career. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 1 0 cents per five characters per day. 





Classifieds 

Summer job interview-Average earnings SPRING BREAK DAYTONA. Spend CLASSIC ROCK BAND SEEKING HAPPY BIRTHDAY
$3,100. Gain valuable experience In ad­7ntddaya et Sprtng BrHk'a HOT­
BASSNOTICES FOR RENT TEST r'e:oort, The Clarendon Plaza PLAYER. Call 1187 (Steve) 
vertising,sales and public relations selling yellow page advertising for the University home of Penrod'all'he Plantation Club TO THE ONE AND ONLY TYPING AVAILABLE of Notre Dame Telephone Directory. Op­and the largeat pool deck ON THE ICEBERG DEBATES 287--4082 portunity to travel nationwide. Complete BEACHI $195 per peraon llmlled FLASH! I!!! 
HOUSE FOR RENT 3 BLOCKS FROM NO 3 BEDROOMS-$475-MO 516 

training program in North Carolina. Ex­apace. Call today Breakaway Toura 1-MONDAY 9-10PM NAPOLEON 232-3616 
penses paid training program in Chapel 800-444-7394. MIKE DENISOFF 
Hill, NC. Looking lor enthusiastic,goal ori­8 BDRM HSE AVAILABLE 119-90
Typln9Wordproc:eaalng CORESIDENTIAL HOUSING AT N.D.? 
ented students for challenging well­SUMMER PROGRAMS SMC & ND­FROM THOSE PEOPLE YOU KNOW SCHOOL YEAR. 87MIIO. 234-9364.
237·1949 paying summer job. Some internships ~ONDON F5 (MAY 24-JUNE 23) ROME ICEBERG DEBATES BEST.-T!NGSI available. Interview on campus Monday, (JUNE 18-F5 JULY 17). TRAVEL IN 

MONDAY NIGHT AT 9 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL February 13th. Sign up at Career and IRELAND,SCOT LAND,
FOUR FLAGS FARM BED 'N BREAK· 

500e PEOPLE LAST WEEK MRS. COKER, 233-7009. Placement Services in the lower level of FRANCE.GERMANY, SWITZ. TAKE ---sENIORSm"'
FAST JUST 20 MINS. FROM ND.IDEAL FOR ALL ND ACTIVmES. RESERVE 

the Hesburgh Library. UP TO 9 CREDITS. COURSES IN BARNABY'S NOW FOR ALL UPCOMING EVENTS. 
$3-ALL YOU CAN EATNEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for ART, BUSINESS, EDUCATION, HIST., Get Up and Go with Transpo to the mall

818-471-5711.

CASHII Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash Afternoon babysitter needed, 2 or 3 days ITALIAN, JUSTICE. INFO. MEETING Thursday! TUESDAY,FEB.7 or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK per week, 3:30-6:00 pm. Must have own FEB. 13 IN 351 MADELEVA. PASS­5PM-7PM 
HAVE YOUR PARENTS STAY AT THE

808 Howard St. just off ol N.D. car. Call 288-6428 eves alter 6 or PORT PICTURES AVAILABLE. FOR Hot Tipl Take Transpo to the mall. Only ---SENIORS'"''' 
IRISH B&B DURING JPW. LOCATED 2

Ave.{walking distance from campus) ph. weekend. INFO CALL PROF A.A. BLACK 284-.50 each way!
Ml FROM N.D. FOR INFO. RING 272­

233-2342 ................................................................ -4460 OR 272-3726. 
7736. 
hleg 
······································
ROOMS FOR RENT. ALSO 2 BDRM SOFT PORN ALERT

FOR SALE LOVE 
HOME 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. I need 2 USC tlx. 272-6306 Call Kate x4042
Remember Valentine'• Day SECTION 1-B OF CAVANAUGH RE­
' LOST/FOUND I 

Feb. 14th QUESTS THAT ALL PERVERTED MEN For Sale-nearly new HP15C. OF NO PROCLAIM THEIR "BAD ATil­2 ROOM EFFICIENCY SINGLE PER­
LOST: 30 Macintosh diskettes from my Best offer. Call LAURA, 2568. A Gilt !rom The Country HervHter TUDES" ABOUT WOMEN BY PLACING 
SON 288-0955 

car in C1. The importance of those disks ..ya I LOVE YOU In a apeclal way. THE SWIMSUIT ISSUE IN THEIR cannot be exagerated. $$$ for infoima­MCA T MATERIALS FOR SALE Call Dr DORM WINDOWII! tion leading to the return of them. Please John at 3419 or risk lailing .... Loceted In the LaFortune Student BY THE WAY DON'T FORGET TO BETSY SEGGERSON TURNS 21 call# 4936 or 289--1628. Or~ you already Center u. ...... nt MAKE YOUR COMPARISONS! TODAYIIII have them, please return them to 230 WANTED MCAT MATERIALS FOR SALE Call Dr. Houra: 12-5:30 Mon-Frt. HAVE A HAPPY BIRTHDAY-LOOK Knott Hall. No questions asked. John at 3419 or risk failing .... DUE TO RECENT FIRE, BALLOON OUT DOMERS, SHE'S HOT! 
DELIGHT IS NO LONGER IN BUSI­
.................................... 
COUNSELORS-Boys camp in Berkshire

LOST: Gold Quartz Consort Watch with FOR SALE: ROUNDTRIP PLANE BRIGHTEN YOUR LIFEII MEET THAT NESS. ONE OF THE-OLD "CLOWNS" """"""SENIORS"""''' BARNABY'S 
Mts., West. Mass. Good Sal.,room & 

a black band. If laund call Jennie 283-TICKET ON PIEDMONT. GOOD SOMEONE SPECIAL THROUGH OUR HAS COME OUT OF RETIREMENT NIGHT $4 ALL YOU CAN EAT TUES­
bd,travel allowance, beaut~ul modem

3688. ANYWHERE IN THE U.S. FOR 1 YEAR. SINGLES CLUB. INTRO SINGLES AND IS READY TO TAKE YOUR OR­DAY, FEB. 7 5-7P.M. 
facili!y,must love children & be able to 

BEST OFFER. CALL KEVIN 1631. CLUB, BOX 3006, BOSTON, MA 02130. DERS FOR BOUQUETS, ARRANGE­......................... 
teach one of the following: Tennis,

Did you find a silver pocket welch? d is ..................... ········ MENTS OR PARTY DECORATIONS. Does the old "Clown' who placed the 
W.S.I.,Sailing

worth nothing, but it was my grndfather's. For Sale: SYNTHESIZER call Joe 1865 RIGHT TO LIFE WE HAVE 2 LINES AND CLOWNS "Balloon" ad in Friday's Observer also 
Waterski,Basebaii,Baske!baii,Soccer

I lost d Saturday. Reward $ is offered. ............................................................... RIGHT TO LIFE STANDING BY TO TAKE YOUR REG­accept orders for Fried Rich Vegetables? 
LaCrosse,Wood,A&C,Rocketry, Photog­

Please call me Kristen If 4812 WOME.I'S CARE CENTER PHONE-A­ULAR ORDER OR YOUR SPECIAL
raphy,Archery,Pioneering,

$$$$$S$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ THON VALENTINE OFIDER. CALL 258-5133 Hey DAN THE MANI Thanks for a great
Ropes,Piano,Drarna.Call or write: Camp FEB. &-9 A 1:l-18 OR 258-5115 OR STOP IN AND SEE time at POP FARLEY, and thanks for

TICKETS
Winadu,5 Glen La.•Marnaroneck, NY

BANDANA:LOST IN CCE BLDG LIGHT 2ND FLOOR ADMIN BLD, 8:30-8:30 daisies. Stayoutoftrouble. REMEMBER:
US AT 513 E. MCKINLEY.
10543. (914)361-5983

PINK WITH BLUE PRINT STATING GIVE UFE A FIGHTING CHANCE study hard for those A's! "SKI-LOVE-LAND" AROUND THE I NEED 8 LOUISVILLE GA TICKETS ALL VOLUNTEERS WELCOME 
NO uw echool etudenta to be reps HEY LISA, THANKS FOR THE WON­
ND$MC VALENTINE BALLOON SALEEDGES. MEANS A LOT TO ME SO IF CALL Julie 4929

lor Kaplan-SMH Bar Review cour-. DERFUL TIME THIS WEEKEND. BET­
YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL HEAT­SEND YOUR BOYFRIEND, SWEET­
Eern free bllr review courH plua SS'a. TER HOPE THAT TOM DOESN'T FIND 
HER MAVERICK AT 284-4o52. ONE-WAY FLIGHT TO BOSTON ON HEART OR WHATEVER, A BALLOON 
Cell 272-4135. Aak lor Sue. OUT. TAKE CARE AND BE GOOD.
REWARDIll MARCH 3 FOR VALENTINE'S DAY. ON SALE IN 
LOVE, KEVIN THE DINING HALLS.

PERSONALS
COUNSELORS-Girts camp in Maine.
LOST:PART OF A SILVER KEY CHAIN 

Good sal,roorn & bd.,travel allowance, Hi BONES in ALUMNII love the Ditz. (I
WITH INITIALS AND "12-25-88"0N LISA X2841 FRESHMEN SKI TRIP
beautiful modem lacili!y ,must love get free classilied ads so I thought I'd
BACK PLEASE CALL 3540. Mike, did you have a nice weekend? SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 18 AT SWISS
children and be able to teach one of the use one.) 
VALLEY TICKETS GO ON SALE FEBfollowing:Tennis, W.S.T.,Sailing

LOSTI-gold high school class ringll any WED, FEB 8TH 7-10 IN THE FRESHMAN OFFICE ON 
Waterski,Soltbaii,Basketball, Soc· THANK YOU ST. JUDE
inlo PLEASE contact Jim x40481 IN CINQ 2ND FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE. 
cer,LaCrosse,A&C,Photography, Horse­AT CENTER STREET only $2

back,Dance,Piano,Drama,Ropes Camp Murph-
FOUND Futur&Ouartz welch in 114 Bin H How about a little bim on that mustache, 
Craft,Gymnastics.Call or wri!e:Camp We still like you, even though you're
O'Shag alter 1:15 Wed class. Turned it WOME'.N'S CARE CENTER PHONE-A­Ron??? EEEEEEEEEEEeeeeell . 
Vega, Box 1771 Duxbury, Maas. 02332 lame.
iirto LaFor1une lo!Mound THON
(617)934-6536 -The Observer
LAW SCHOOL: Start your Bar Review FEB. 8 THRU FEB 8 AND ANGELA... Light of my life... l~e of LOST-BROWN HORN RIMMED •rty. Kaplan-SMH _.._ lo many FEB. 13 THRU FEB. 18 my loins, my sin, my soul ANGELAIIIIIIIIII GLASSESII CAN'T SEE SO CALL -avallllblll here In South Bend. CALL KEVIN BELTON AT THE CEN­
SHANA269111 Want to Improve Your CAREER?Be Your Tranafer beck home lor aummer. Dla­TER GABRIELE...What about me? I love you Own Boss? Need Part Time Income? I counta lor Kaplan LSAT •lumnl. 232-7781 FOR MORE DETAILS too..don't leave me this way.. -SA If 2 LOST: LONG BLACK WOOL SCARF Have An OUTSTANDING OPPORTU­Re-before March 2 Call272-4135. Yo, Janet! NITY with Netwonc: 2000 an Authorized Aak lor Sue. Let'• do lunch. SUMMER JOBS
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN CENTER 

Independent Marketer of US SPRINT Singing Vlllentinesllf ALL LANDWATER SPORTSFOR SOCIAL CQNCERNS AND long distance services. Call Oliver 234-SUMMER JOBS Glee Club Singing Valentines Let us PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPSALUMNI HALL TUES. NIGHT. PLEASE 
5723 Independent Marketing Rep. ALL LANDWATER SPORTS Seranada Your Sweetie I ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS
CALL DAVE AT 1138. PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS NEAR LAKE PLACID ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR OVERSEAS JOBS.$1100-2000 mo. M-RESPONSE? YES. INTERESTING? CALL 1-800-343-8373 LOST: A green L.L. Bean Bookpack from Rental Represenative-Ryder Truck LAKE Summer,Yr.rounci.AII Countrlea,AII NO. HERE IT IS REGARDLESS.SO NOH on Thurs. 2-2--89.1 need my Npstickll Rental, 2000 hrs per week,weekends call PLACID. CALL 1-4100-343-8373 llelde. F-Info. Write UC, PO Bx 52· TELL ME ... WHATS ON YOUR MIND?· Pleaae return. Maraya If 1704 . 277-3550 IN04, Coron• Del Mar, CA 112825. BLOND GUY WI GLASSES Hi Rose. Hi Rozel. Hi Sandy. 
~
...~...:....'":...': ..::...:...:........-:...~..::..::...:.......::. . . ..:...:...:...:.... ...~ .......................:........-........ 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· 

Monday, February 6, 1989 
The Observer page 11 
ND hockey loses two against UM-Dearborn 

ALSO REGISTER TO WIN PRIZES!! 

eta_ 

APWOBKS 

rallied from a 5-l deficit to to put the game out of reach in really hasn't happened to us defeat Notre Dame 7-6 Friday the third. very often this year. We got a night, and completed the sweep little overconfident at that Saturday with a 5-2 victory Notre Dame jumped out to a point. They got a couple of over the Irish. The Wolves won 2-0 first-period lead behind quick goals on us and changed the season series outright by power-play goals by Tim Kuehl the tide." compiling a 4-1-1 record and Mark McClew. Larry Pilut Michigan-Dearborn scored against Notre Dame this year. scored from the left faceoff twice more in the second per­Only five goals separated the circle to put the Wolves on the iod, including a buzzer-beater two teams in the physical six­board in the second period, but by Pilut to clip the Irish lead game series which is rapidly the Irish came back to score to 5-3 going into the second in­becoming a an intense rivalry. three straight goals, and the termission. 
"We're two evenly-matched rout was on. The Wolves used the momen­teams," said Irish defenseman Or was it? tum they had built up at the Kevin Markovitz, who scored The dramatic turnaround close of the second period to two power-play goals in that followed shocked the as­take charge in the third. Friday's contest. "Both teams sembled crowd of 985, but one Michigan-Dearborn scored play a hard-hitting style of quick glance at the statsheet four goals in less than nine game. They're not exactly our told the whole story. The Irish minutes to take a 7-5 lead. favorite team to play." were outshot in the game 46-27, Mike Leherr put Notre Dame 
Notre Dame looked like two a statistic that is becoming only back in the game 34 seconds completely different teams in too commonplace for Schafer's later when he rebounded a Friday night's game, dominat­squad. Bobby Herber shot into the net ing most of the first two periods for yet another power-play in mounting a 5-l lead before "We were really excited being goal. The Irish converted all Michigan-Dearborn surged up 5-l against a team as good four power-play opportunities back with six consecutive goals as Michigan-Dearborn. That in the game. 
... 

The Obselver I Scott McCann Tim Kuehl (19) takes a shot against a ready scored two goals over the weekend against the Michigan-Dearborn goalie Friday night. Kuehl Wolves despite the Irish dropping both games. 
No~ we \an help psychol9gy 
rna ors w1th therrecononucs. 

Whatever field of study you're in, aMacintosh)\ computer can help make the studying easier. And now Apple makes the payments easier, too, with the Student Loan~to-Own Program. If your parents qualify, you won't have to won-v about the economics-vou cin attend to fun thing.\ !'ike term papers and exams. Stop by and pick up an application today 
·-~ 
Apple's Student Loan-to-Own Program 

By FRANK PASTOR Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team enjoyed its most success­ful month of the season in Jan­uary, posting a 6-4 record and distancing itself from the frigid memories of December's 0-7 slate. 
But just as the Irish (9-23-2) were beginning to get ac­climated to th~ir recent three-game winning streak, the calendar played a cruel trick on them--February had ar­rived, and with it came Michigan-Dearborn. 
The Wolves chilled the hearts of the Irish faithful this past weekend, sweeping Notre Dame in a home-and-home se­ries that proved there is clearly no love lost between the two teams. 
Michigan-Dearborn {17-11-2) 

© IY&l Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, <md Macintosh are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. 
page 12 The Observer Monday, February 6, 1989 
'Meyo Mile' highlights 2nd annual Invitational 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Sports Writer 
The second annual Meyo In­vitational, held in the Loftus Athletic Center on Saturday, showcased some of the best track and field athletes in the country. 
The meet was highlighted by the "Meyo Mile," an indepen­dent invitational which fea­tured four runners who had run sub-four minute miles. 
The runners in the Meyo Mile were just a hair shy of the four minute mark this year, with the winner, John Trautman of Georgetown finishing in 4:00.6. Ed Slowokowski of Loyola was a close second with a time of 4:01.01. 
John Quade of Arizona, who won the event last year in 3:57.3 and was the favorite again this year, finished a disappointing sixth with a time of 4:07.15. 
Notre Dame athletes had their share of success, as Rag­bib "Rocket" Ismail won the 55-meter dash in 6.35 seconds, and teammate Rusty Setzer was close behind, finishing in 
6.36 seconds. 
"For the short time that they've been with us, Rocket and Rusty did great jobs-­especially Rocket," said sprinting coach Ted Potts. "He came out and handled the work really well." 

Ismail was also scheduled to run in the 200 meters, but was scratched because he "felt kind of tight," according to Coach Potts, and they want him to be ready for the Central Col­legiate meet next weekend. 
Also running strong for the Irish was the the 4x880 meter relay team of Mike Rogan, Brian Peppard, Mark Lavery, and David Warth. 
In what was one of the most impressive races of the day, Lavery took the lead for the Irish in the middle of the third leg with a daring move to the inside and quickly put distance between himself and the rest of the pack. Anchorman Warth finished the job off by running very strong on the fourth and final leg of the relay. 
The relay team joined Ismail and Setzer in posting an IC4A qualifying time, but its time of 
7:30.37 was just shy of qualify­ing them for NCAA's. 
Also running strong for the Irish were: Richard Culp with a 1:05.23 in the 500 meters; Scott Vandenberg, who finished the 400 meters in 50.1 seconds; and Ryan Cahill, who missed qualifying for IC4A's by 
0.49 seconds in the 1000 meters with a time of 2:27.87. 
The Irish were running this week without two of their best striders, co-captains Ron Markezich and Dan Garret, who were both injured. Neither Coach Potts nor Coach Con­nelly would speculate whether either would be back next for the big Central Collegiate meet. 
Other schools brought some excellent athletes as well, most notably Navy and Arizona. The Midshipmen featured Clay Stackhouse, who posted a first­place finish in the 200 meters and a third in the 55 meters, as well as Anthony Terrell, who placed first in the Triple Jump and second in the Long Jump. 
Arizona brought Jack Trahan, who won the shot put, Percy Knox, who won the Long Jump, and Doug Herron, who won the 800 meters with a time of 1:50.67. 

Ferry 
continued from page 16 
Dame's brief comeback. 
First came an eight-footer that gave the Devils a 56-48 lead. 
After a Scott Paddock dunk, Ferry answered with a basket in the lane to make it 58-50. 
Then, after a Joe Fredrick jumper, came the killer. Ferry Krzyzewski's assessment. 
"Ferry played great today," said the Irish co-captain. "He may be the best in college bas­ketball, and he showed why tonight. That three-pointer-­only Ferry could do that." 
Although it was that second­half outburst that put the game out of reach, Ferry also showed the JACC crowd and a national­television audience that scoring is only part of his had Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps concerned before the game. 

"You can't put a gadget defense on Ferry because he's so creative with his passing," said Phelps. "That's where a lot of teams get into trouble." 
Aside from the slow start in the second half, Ferry turned in an impressively consistent performance. His first-half to­tals included 13 points, four rebounds and four assists. In the second half, Ferry scored 15 points with four rebounds and two assists. 
He managed all this despite an injured back that still has him playing under 100 percent and a crowd that continually harrassed him, yelling "Ferry, Ferry" at his every move. Ferry has started to grow ac­customed to that chant. 
"They always do that," Ferry said about' the treatment he gets from road crowds. "The crowd's really good here. We were fortunate to be ahead the whole time and get the crowd out of the game a little bit. 
"Two years ago (a Notre Dame 70-66 overtime win) when we got down, the crowd really got behind them." 
Thanks in a large part to Fer­ry, Duke wasn't falling behind too often this time. 
connected on a three-pointer game. and was fouled by Elmer Ben­He led his team in both 


~:iii·,' ~Attr I \JIJ\L CHINESE-AMERICAN
nett. Ferry hit the free throw, rebounds (eight) and assists Duke led 61-54 and Notre Dame (six)-. For the season, he tops 

~-:-~·.·..;}·\a"'~'-'-¥~ (.EATING & DRINKING 
never would get closer. Duke with a 7.1 rebounding 

p /~~~~<::-ALL-U-CAN EAT BUFFET·· ESTABLISHMENT
"Danny made some big bas­average and his 94 total assists kets down that stretch," said are second only to point guard 

J, •",· .··· ·.. SP.ECIAL FOR $7.95 Krzyzewski. "When you get a Quin Snyder. 
Jo;; .n( Includes soup, appetizers, 8 different entrees & desserts
magnificent player in a situa­"I don't think of myself as a tion like that, he's going to do big man; I think of myself as 

.:z -Sun, Feb 5-Thurs, Feb 9 those things." a player," said the 6-10 for­
5:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m. 130 Dixit WIJ South, So. Bend
Fredrick, who led Notre ward. "Passing is something Dame with 21 points, agreed I've always enjoyed doing." 

---=c-=o-=m-=-e::--::c~e...../e_,b,.....r-ate the Chinese New Year! (nexttoRandall'slnnlm-7371 wholeheartedly with That passing ability is what 
Dr. Tavel's Premium Optical says SAVE ON EYECARE & EYEWEAR 
· Nobody beats ourprice and our quality can't be better. The Masculine Look New Generation 


$998 ~ 
$1998~ 
$2998~
SOUTH BEND ONLY 

Broadmoor Plaza ~iiiiil...-~...-r-~~-~--iiiiiij;~ll 1111 E. Ireland Road 291-4000 

$3998~ 
Hours: Take an additional $10 off the contact lens sale prices listed below
Mon & Thurs 

with this coupon. .
9-8 
Tues. Wed, Fri.& Sat 
1 9-6 1 ~/
v Examinations Available -•. ' v No appointment I •., 
necessary I ..J. Bring your Dr.'s Rx IBausch&LomborSollmate V Let us duplicate your 1ciearDallyorExtendedWear 

current glasses --------.,.~-~-­
Preferred Vision ProviderSM 

:=n~~=9~'2 2 $9998: 
program-Metropolitan 1or Softmate Bonly. PAIRS 

1 

1 Contact lms eye exam requlred. Care kit not tncluded. Some power 1 restr1dlDns awly. Coupon mllSt be Jrcrnled at time of order. 
L-----------------J 


Monday, February 6, 1989 The Observer page 13 


Men's and women's swim teams fall to Ball St. 
By MARY GARINO race. That set the tone for the evident over recent meets. The At one point, when Ball State they made the key adjustments Sports Writer rest of the meet. Ball State times for the Irish have been had accumulated a 14 point ad­necessary to win.'' never led by any more than 12 steadily improving. Welsh sees vantage, sophomore Jim Byrne Welsh added that, on paper,
Both the men's and women's points, and that was at the end. this as a good sign as the cham­came through with a first place both Cardinal teams should swim teams lost heartbreakers Notre Dame swimmers had pionship races approach later finish in the 200 yard back­have won easily, but the Irish to Ball State on Saturday. six first place finishes, includ­this month. stroke. surprised them. His goal,
The meets lived up to the ex­ing two by Becky Wood and two The men's team lowered its Later, Tom Penn won the 200-however, is to have teams ex­pectations of excitement as the by Amy Tri. Tri, a sophomore record to 6-5 as they were yard breaststroke, the second pecting a tough fight from last event decided the winner from Minnesota, was one of defeated by a score of 115-128. to last event, to set up the final Notre Dame. 
in both contests. The Irish several swimmers who turned The men's meet was similar to race, the 400-yard freestyle "There were a lot of upsetsteams knew that they would in their best performaces of the the women's meet. It was close relay. The Irish needed to take by us," Welsh noted. "It was a have to swim at their best, and season. during each event. The Car­first and third, but only very exciting team perfor­they did, but they were outdone "From first to last, it was the dinals' greatest margin over managed to take second and mance, in both spirit and ag­by Ball State. best total team performance of the Irish was 14 points. third. gressiveness."
The women's team (5-6) lost the year,'' said Irish coach Tim The Irish recorded five vic­The men's team had season­A key result of the meets is by a score of 144-156. The Irish Welsh. "The women have ar­tories in individual races by best times in six events, includ­that both Irish teams gainedstarted out well by taking both rived as a team, and it was five different swimmers. What ing the last race, but was un­confidence, despite the loss. 
first and second in the first great to see." characterized the Notre Dame able to upset Ball State. This is obviously important as 
event, the 200-yard medley The loss by the women's effort was the timing. When the "It's to their credit that they the Midwestern Collegiate Con­relay, but Ball State came back team followed the pattern of Irish needed a win, they got won," said Welsh. "They were ference Championships are and tied the score on the next improvement which has been one. alert and well-coached, and less than two weeks away. 
from the right wing, scoring the team in a great setting for col-trouble and missed shots by big throws in overtime to clinch an
Hoops 
bucket and drawing a foul from lege basketball," said men Keith Robinson and LaP­overtime victory for the Irish. Elmer Bennett. Ferry con-Krzyzewski, whose team had honso Ellis.
continued from page 16 Jamere Jackson added 20 
verted the four-point play, lost four of its last five games. "We got Robinsom in foul points, but the Devils' experi­want it to do that against me." taking the wind out of Notre "I thought for the first time all trouble, and he and Ellis shot 
ence and depth was too much 
"I thought the run we made Dame's sails. year we played for a solid 40 1-for-12. They just missed a lot for the young Irish. in the second half was very, "That was the key right minutes. It started with the of easy shots that normally "We didn't play the game we very good," Phelps said. "We there," Phelps said. "We never defense, and that made us ag-they would make. Those guys 
wanted to," Fredrick said. 
cut (the lead) to four, and it regrouped after that. I think gressive on offense. We were can't go 1-for-12, playing "We played Duke's game.
showed a_ lot of poise and a lot Duke's experience just took trying to beat their press to against a team like Duke." 
They have 10 guys back from of confidence in out kids just to over again. Ferry took over. score, and· we made a number When Krzyzewski finally the Final Four last year. Theystay with them." That's what makes them such of really great decisions on the took Ferry out with 29 seconds have a lot more experience.
"As you'd expect of any Dig-a good team. How Ferry goes break and the press." to go, the All-American led all You could tell Duke had a killer 
ger Phelps team, they didn't is how Duke goes." The teams started out the scorers with 28 points, and led insticnt tonight. They weren't 
run away and hide," "That was probably the play physical first half balanced un-Duke with eight rebounds and going to let it slip away."Krzyzewski said. "We had a 16 of the game," Krzyzewski said til Duke battled to a nine-point six assists. Abdelnaby added 15 point lead, but we knew they of Ferry's three-point basket. lead at 40-31 as John Smith hit points and seven rebounds. were going to make a run at "I'd like to say I diagrammed a three-point basket from the The Irish were led by their us. We helped a little by it, but he just did it." right wing. A 10-5 margin two junior co-capitans. Joe making some quick From that point, Duke out-through the remainder of the Fredrick had another big game shots...that was adding fuelto scored the Irish 17-4 to take a half gave the Blue Devils the against the Blue Devils by their fire." commanding 80-56 lead with 52-36 halftime lead, setting the pouring in 21 points. Last 
The experienced Duke team 8:48 to go in the game, and the stage for Notre Dame's near-season at Duke he led the Irish didn't let the Irish stay ~lose Irish could get no closer than comeback in the second half. with 23 points in a losing cause, ,.,,,u,... ,•.,,.,.,,,.,"~"'"'"""'"""''''".""'''
f I W'th th 16 • t Ph } tt 'b t dth h } th fannlrnru.glumrln'fb.lumwlf~\lfl'"'n'"''"f'llll'
or ong. 1 e score 58-54, porn s. e psa n u e e o e e and in his freshman season· he .•.,,.,,;,.,,,,.t,, '"'""""'"'""'"~'""'"' 
Ferry launched a three-pointer "We played an outstanding Irish dug for themselves to foul hit a key bucket and two free =+ 
··················································~ 







t YOU i
i YOU ARE NEEDED FOR ANOTHER GREAT NOTRE DAME TRADITION : 
: JUNIOR PAREN,.S WEEKEND :
•: February 17, 18, 8 II, 1989 •: 
t JOBS t : WAITERS-WAITRESSES-LABORERS-ESPEDITERS : 
t Make Money For Spring Break t t Group together as a Dorm -Raise Money to fund Dorm project t t Work and donate to favorite Charity t 
• SIGN UP ,.ODAY • 
: South Dining Hall Accounting Office-: : Telephone # 7814 : -. 
: Information-: 
: Director's Office# 7253 :
•• Join us in making this a weekend to remember •• : / for Juniors and Parents : 
... ·", .. 

< ~ ~--t ... : ~ .··.,.~. t" "\ .. ~. ·.-.~,.... • •. -.-.. -··'-~--"t·:._·.__ -. ;..·" ---.-,;"-• .-. _:~:·-.. :-_·,4 

·~················································~ 


The Observer Monday, February 6, 1989 
~ Syracuse too much for Irish 

The Obaetver I File ~ Lisa Kuhns and the Notre Dame women's basketball team lost Saturday at Syracuse 63-56. The game dropped Notre Dame's seas.C?n record to 13-6. 

By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team came into Manley Field House in Syracuse on Saturday with a full head of steam. 
After soundly beating Detroit Thursday night, the Irish were ready for the Orangemen. 
But Syracuse met the Irish head-on and a quick crew of Syracuse forwards, with a little help from a sputtering Irish of­fense, derailed them, 63-56. 
Notre Dame was out­rebounded 46-22 by the Oran­gemen and had trouble keeping Syracuse's speedy forwards from crashing the boards to get second-shot opportunities. 
"We played hard," said soph­omore Krissi Davis, who led the team with seven rebounds. "But even if we played strong post defense, we couldn't seem to keep them off long enough to stop them from scoring on the second time around." 
Freshman Margaret Nowlin and sophomore Sara Liebscher were the only other Irish players to grab more than two rebounds, tallying four and three, respectively. 
With little size underneath to stop them, the Orangemen owned the boards as forward Tonya Hendrix brought down a game-high 12 rebounds and fel­low forward Danene Hopson added eight. 
The most dangerous of these 
· rebounds were the offensive ones, especially the eight re­corded by Kendrix which helped her tally 12 points for the game. Notre Dame played Syracuse tough throughout the first half but was still down by six at halftime, 36-30, and even into the second half, the Irish had trouble gaining the lead after closing the gap. "It wasn't like we gave up when we were down by six," said Davis. "But our offense kept sputtering and no matter how close we got, we just couldn't get over that hump." Sophomore point guard Karen Robinson tried to get the offense going, canning jumpers from the outside to help her tally a team-high 13 points. Liebscher played well on both sides of ball as well, scoring 11 points, swiping four 
steals and dishing out four as­sists. 
But it always seemed to be too little, too late for the Irish as they came up short in the final minutes of the game against Syracuse's strong free throw shooting. 
"We had them beat in a half­court game," said senior co­captain Lisa Kuhns, "but they beat us in the transition game and on the boards. 'There was a point when we were within five points and we should have made our run, but we couldn't and that broke our backs." 
v HAPPY 
VAlENTINES 
DAY! 

a.~ ~(6 
c1~~ 
***"'*"'"'"'"' 
e.tt (S17) 515-KU4 
~ fCU" "V'i44 M ~ 
/41& 114. -1 7'l<'U71.LES 
ule~Ue ?tE'X? VA'~ 1'1t 1'1tt:>1A'?fA 
~ 

FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
Monday, February 6, 1989 The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
11 :00 a.m. Sophomore Literary Festival workshop with T. Coraghessan Boyle, Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
4:00 p.m. Art department presentation by Graham Marks, Cranbook Academy of Art, Michigan, Annenberg Auditorium. 
7:00 p.m. The Graduate Student Union presents "Graduate Student Life," by Father Malloy, Theodore's. 
7:00p.m. Communication and Theatre film "Menilmontant," Annenberg Auditorium. 
8:00 p.m. Hesburgh Program in Public Service lecture on service in the public sector by Steven M. Thomas, City of New York, Center for Social Concerns. 
8:00p.m. Sophomore Literary Festival reading by Derek Wal­cott, contemporary poet, Stepan Center. 
9:00 p.m. Communication and Theatre film "Labor Day, Ricky and Rocky, I Was a Contestant at Mother's Wet T-Shirt Contest," Annenberg Auditorium. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's
Boneless Rib Sandwich Roast Turkey 
Meatloaf Sweet and Sour Pork Roast Turkey Roman Rice Vegetable Marinara Deli Bar 
1eneed someone with theronfidenreofaSll1_'gOOI1,thededication ol amarathonerandthe rourage rianexplorer. 
We need a Peace Corp!> \'Oiunt«r Call us at 1-800....24-8580, Exl. 9:t 

COMICS 
Bloom County 
!30Y. GRI/B MY t115T!Jil& fl(OM me Cfl/3, UA7(Jp wv ."' 
II Cf(!5f' Ne-W /?()L/..1/R /3/{.{. 1.5 IF Y(}(} .....-tv~--ll 
HVRRY. 
Buzz Mcflatop 

Yll KNOW, 11115 f'tAC£ COVtf? Be R'eiiC. (Jflfll!TY IF ITlfllfl 300 MOKti 
Ft.fJ()I?5 W IT 
ACROSS 
1 Kind 5 Lets go 10 Take to the slopes 13 North American Indian 14 Where to await the Robert E. Lee 15 Move quickly, as 
clouds 16 Appraise 11 Met production 18 Comedian Jay 19 With 37 Across, 
words from a Merman hit 22 Cato's 1,051 23 Trains: Abbr. 

24 The last frontier? 26 Five·. Comb. form 28 "Here's looking 
at you," e.g. 32 Greek letter 33 Not on 35 Nile viper 36 Journalist Jacob 37 See 19 Across 41 Firn 42 Ogle 43 Oolong, e.g. 44Three­
match 45 Bright-eyed and bushy-tailed 47 Grind one's teeth 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
..:.:+:::+;:~~ .;..;.a..:::.J..::~..L.:..I 


51 Agave fiber 53 Rubber tree 55 Meadow 56 Competitive­
ness in the family 61 Kind of tube 62 Actor Dudley or Roger 63 Like some TV coverage 64 Baxter or Bancroft 65 Priscilla's John 66 Forest denizen 
67 Auth.'s submissions 68 Fine sprays 69 Totals 
DOWN 

1Be frugal 
2 Delphic figure 
3 Keep 4 Adolescent 15 Err 36 Actor O'Neal 49 Started a tennis match
5 Knock for a loop 20 Rough sketch 37 Blessings 50 They do some 
6 Meal 21 D.D.E.'s 38 Equivocations 
ted ding 
predecessor

7Tied 39 Bread type 52 French 25 Dawn goddess clergyman's title 
8 Weird 40 Israeli desert 21 "-dat barge!" region 54 Legal claims 
9 Chair or sofa 
57 Mosque priest 

29 Western film 41 Digits: Abbr. 
1 0 Concept for a 
58 -me tangere

film · 30 Cigarette 45"-theway," 
59 Figures in some
"'product Sinatra hit 

11 Chinese name of pantheons Confucius 31 Little quarrel 46 Small tower 
60 Hawkeye on TV 12 Altar words 34 Palpate 48 In league w1th 61 Loud noise 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

Michael F. Muldoon 
0 1980 Chronicle Features o·ltlribuled by Press Syndicate 


"'Thafs fine,' I said. 'Good nose,' I said. But no, you had to go and hit the chisel one more time."


STUDENT UNION BOARD Pf}(f£Sf£9{'TS: THE SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 
Monday Feb. 6 11:00 a.m. Workshop with T. Coraghessan Boyle in the Library Lounge 
~ 

8:00p.m. Derek Walcott Reading in Stepan Center 

-STUDENT UNION BOARD
Tuesday Feb. 7 12:00 p.m. Workshop with Derek Walcott 
in the Library Lounge 
8:00p.m. Reginald Gibbons Reading in the Library Auditorium TO BE CONTINUED... 



Sports
Monday, February 6, 1989 page 16 
Ferry powers Blue Devils past Irish 102-80 
see HOOPS, page 13 over the Irish Sunday night. Steve Megargee features Ferry at right. see. FERRY, page 12 
Irish give strong effort in Eck Doubles Classic 
Duke serves Irish worst loss since '82 
By THERESA KELLY Assistant Sports Editor 
For a four-minute stretch Sunday, Notre Dame's basketball team was better fhan the 12th-ranked Duke Blue Devils. 
But led by Mr. Everything, senior forward Danny Ferry, Duke proved which was the best team at the Joyce ACC Sunday night in a 102-80 pounding of the Irish. . 
"I said there were going to be some times when we'd get whacked this year," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps. "We got whacked today, even at home." 
The 22-point difference was the largest loss margin of an Irish team since a 87-54 loss to Virginia in 1982, and the most lopsided home loss since 1981. 
Mter the Blue Devils dominated the end of the first half, the Irish made the game exciting, momentarily, early in the second half. Notre Dame ripped off 12 consecutive points to cut Duke's 52-36 halftime lead to four, 52-48. 
Duke didn't score until15:53 in the half, and even that was a goaltend bucket credited to Alaa Abdelnaby. . 
Were the Blue Devils about to be victims of another Notre Dame upset? 
"I'm Catholic," Duke head coach Mike Krzyzewski said. "I know how holy water works sometimes. It does marvelous things. I didn't 
By CHRIS COONEY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team proved that it could play with some of the best squads in the nation this weekend as the Irish finished the Eck Doubles Classic with a championship and two runner­up trophies. 
"I couldn't have asked for more," said Head Coach Mic­hele Gelfman. "The girls did this." 
Leading the way for the Irish was the No. 1 combination of CeCe Cahill and Tracy Barton. 
The men's and women's fencing teams participated In their only home meet of the season over the weekend. Chris Fllllo details action at right. 
The tandem was undefeated throughout the three days of · the tournament, finishing with a 7-5, 6-4 victory over Northwestern's Lynn Nabors and Julie Staples in the finals. 
In the other flights, the second doubles team of Katie Clark and Kristy Doran finished fifth, while the players at the third and fourth positions displayed the depth of the young Irish squad. . At the third spot, Kim Pacella paired with Natalie Il­lig to place second to a strong Nebraska team. Pacella-Illig were defeated in the finals 7-5, 


Short stay on bench sparks Ferry's burst 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
You'd think the first thing Notre Dame would want to see Sunday afternoon is Danny Ferry sitting on the bench. 
But after his 28-point performance led the Blue Devils to a 102-80 rout, he said it was his short time off the floor which led to his game­clinching spurt early in the second half. 
"I'd forced a couple of shots, and I kind of lost my composure," Ferry said, referring to Notre Dame's 12-0 run at the beginning of the second half. "Coach (Mike) Krzyzewski sat me down for about 2Q seconds and said, 'Take it easy. Slow down.' The assistants reiterated what he said. 
"I got myself back together, and the shots started falling." 
Whatever Krzyzewski said to Ferry obviously worked. Duke's Player of the Year candidate promptly turned a huge Irish comeback into a Duke blowout upon his return. 
Notre Dame had cut a 52-36 Duke halftime lead to 52-48 in less than four minutes. During that time, Ferry had missed two relatively easy shots and committed one foul. 
Mter spending 33 seconds sitting on the bench, the senior from Bethesda, Md., returned ft with Duke ahead 54-48. He scored Duke's next The Observer I Mike Moran eight points that effectively ended Notre 
Danny Ferry (with the ball) was a key factor In Duke's 102-80 rout 
6-4 after going 4-1 in the earlier rounds. In the No. 4 doubles bracket, the duo of Resa Kelly and Cathy Bradshaw was also 4-1 before they lost to Northwestern 6-1, 6-0 in the championship. A No. 5 doubles team of Tyler Musleh and Anne-Marie Dega also were en­tered in the fourth flight and finished fifth. 
The victories were especially satisfying for the Irish after last weekend's disappointing losses to Minnesota and Mar­quette. 
"The pressure of playing in a dual meet was off of the girls 

Fencers victorious at home 
By CHRIS FILLIO Sports Writer 
In their only home meet of the season, the Notre Dame fencing teams dominated the opposition in a clean sweep of the weekend action. 
The competition at the Joyce ACC on Saturday included teams from Detroit, Tri State, Oakland UniVersity, Michigan, Cleveland State, Eastern Mic­higan, and Wayne State. However, none of the teams were much of a match for the Irish as they retained their per­fect season records. 
"Things went pretty much as I had expected," said Irish head coach Michael DeCicco. "I thought that our depth really showed more than our opposi­tion. Our kids are fencing ex­ceptionally well. It's goin_g to 
INSIDE SPORTS 

Women's basketbaU struggles at Syracuse ............................................................................. page 14 
Men's and women's swimming travel to Ball State ................................................................ page 13 Indoor track hosts IMeyo Invitational ......................................................................................... page 12 Hockey drops two to Michigan-Dearborn................................................................................. page 11 
and they could play more for themselves and their partners. They didn't have to worry about a critical match that would determine the outcome for the whole team," said Gelfman. "That psychological edge really helped the younger players." 
Gelfman also attributed the wins to Notre Dame's return to its regular doubles combina­tions. The familiarity of playing with normal partners added strength and confidence to the pairs. 
Cahill, half the victorious No. 1 duo, echoed Gelfman's com-
take a very good team to beat Notre Dame this year." 
The women's squad made particularly quick work of most teams until locking swords with the defending na­tional champions from Wayne State. Despite the temporary loss of top-ranked Loredana Ranza, out with the flu, the wo­men of Wayne State gave the Irish as much as , they could handle. 
Powered by fine perfor­mances from Kristin Kralicek and Heidi Piper, the women went on to complete a perfect day with a 9-7 victory. 
"We did what we wanted to today," said women's coach Yves Auriol. "We won and that was the important thing. (Irish captain) Janice Hynes (3-3) was definitely affected by her week-long illness. The bottom line is u.at if we want to go all the way this year, we have to fence better than we did today." 
Auriol cited the contribution of senior Brenda Leiser (8-3) as a key element in the win over Wayne State. In addition, freshman Heidi Piper (7-0 seems to be making the loss of graduated four-time All­American Molly Sullivan less and less of an obstacle as she continues to pick up crucial vic­tories meet after meet. 
Sophomore Lynn Kadri and freshman Tara Kelly both went 10-0 on the day, while senior Stephanie McNeil (6-0) and freshman Mary Westrick (9-0) were also undefeated. 
In the men's competition, the foil team led the way once 
see FENCING, page 14 
ments, crediting her champi­onship to the complimentary styles of play between herself and partner Barton. 
"We work really well to­gether," said Cahill, "because I hit the ball with finesse while Tracy is very powerful. The combination mixes up our op­ponents because they never know what will be coming." 
Barton agreed and added that the tournament should be a confidence booster for the 0-2 Irish. 

"CeCe really helped me a lot,'' said the freshman Barton. 






