VOL. XXII, NO. 132 WEDNESDAY, MAY 3, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


Malloy elected to commission 
Will revise Vatican document 


By JOHN O'BRIEN 
Senior Staff Reporter 
University President Father Edward Malloy was elected to a 15 member commission created by a world congress of Catholic educators. 
The commission, which was created in order to assist in revising a proposed Vatican document on the Church and Catholic universities, will study the fourth draft of the document before returning to Rome in September when the congress reconvenes. 
"The idea of this interim commission was to carry over the spirit and deliberations of this meeting into the next stage so that what we talked about wasn't lost in transition," Mal­loy said. 
Of the 15 members of the commission, three are from North America. Joining Malloy are Father Joseph O'Hare, president of Fordham Univer­sity and Sister Sally Furay, vice-president and provost of the University of San Diego. 
"The Schema on Catholic Higher Education," as the document is called, was first proposed in 1985 by the Congre­gation for Catholic Education. 
According to Malloy, the document is "supposed to ad­dress the question of the role of Catholic higher education, the relationship between the in­stitutions and the local bishop and national groups of bishops, the role of various component parts like the the theology de­partment, or the way that sci­ence and technology are approached.'' 
After the document was pro­posed, it received critical reviews from American Cath­olic bishops. Malloy said that these earlier versions didn't properly assess the experience 
see MONK I page 4 


The Observer I John Zaller


Smile 

Father Tyson speaks at the student leaders' banquet at Theodores in LaFortune Student Center on Tuesday. 

TENURE: SET FOR LIFE 

NO profs await tenure decisions from Univ. 

By JOHN O'BRIEN 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Editor's note: This is the first part of a two-part series on the Notre Dame tenure sys­tem. 
Professors, too, will be feeling added pressure during the next two weeks as tenure decisions are handed down. 
The lengthy process of de­termining who will receive tenure began in September and ends as the Provost's of­fice releases the decisions this Friday. 
The issue of tenure is sig­nificant for many young pro­fessors because receiving ten­ure will make them a permanent member of the Notre Dame faculty. 
According to the 1988 Uni­versity of Notre Dame Fac­ulty Handbook, tenure is "a permanence of employment" whose "pricipal purpose is the protection of academic freedom." 
University Provost Timothy O'Meara called ten­ure a safeguard for free ex­pression. 
"At a university, where ideas are the coin of the realm, a person must feel free to speak out when something 
needs to be changed,'' he said. 
"The concept of tenure came 
up precisely so there is a 
safeguard for this." 
Once a member of the 
teaching-and-research fac­
ulty receives tenure, they cannot be removed from their faculty position without "serious cause." 
The Faculty Handbook defines "serious cause" as "dishonesty, professional in­competence or continued ne­glect of academic duties, regulations or responsibili­ties; conviction of a felony; continual serious disrespect or disregard for the Catholic character of the University; or causing notorious and public scandal." 

O'Meara said that dismis­sal for serious cause can oc­cur, "but then only after some very strict procedures safeguarding the individual." He added that dismissal for serious cause is "almost never applied." 
A faculty member becomes eligible for tenure anywhere from the date of hire to six years, depending on their title, experience and whether or not they are Law School faculty. 
Professors and associate professors become eligible after their third year. Assis­tant · professors, however, must first complete three years of service. If they are renewed for another three­year term, they become eligi­ble for tenure in the final year of the term, their sixth year overall. 
Teaching-and-research fac­ulty in the Law School, like assistant professors, must complete six years of service before becoming eligible for tenure. 
see TENURE I page 6 
•


Security shows major crimes down 1n 
By KELLEY TUTHILL were computer and bookbag year, said Rakow. He pointed school year are the worst Senior Staff Reporter thefts, off-campus problems. out that Notre Dame was the times. Changes that occurred this first university to join up with The visit of President George 
Although there were as­year included computerized Crime Stoppers International. Bush in November was a big saults, thefts and vandalism, it parking tickets and security Security tried to work with task, said Rakow. During a was a "good school year" took over event parking at the off-campus students this year. presidential-level visit such as crime-wise, according to Rex Joyce Athletic and Convocation "I can't say it was a total suc­the Bush visit, security must Rakow, director of security. Center. cess, but we're making some work with the Secret Service, 
First semester inroads," said Rakow. He said Rakow. 
In August, security added added that it it a "hard area to During Christma.s break
• Security's role I page 7 

other assistant director of se­reach." Rakow said that the there were no serious prob­
curity, Charles Hurley, who Christmas in April program .ems, said Rakow. Security 
It was a good year, said was previously the South Bend was a step in the right direc­provided extra protection over Rakow, because there were no Police Chief. Security also ex­tion. the break, especially in the dor­big crimes reported on campus panded its investigative staff mitories, said Rakow. Security such as rape. In fact there has this year to include three full Rakow said off-campus stu­workers put in an additional been no campus rape reported time investigators. dents this year had less in­3,000 hours, according to in three years. He said that the Rakow said that crime pre­volvement with the police Rakow. "The students come 1988-89 school year was a busy vention was furthered with the breaking up parties. He also back well rested after break, one. addition of Crime Stoppers on said that students were vic­while we're tired." 
campus. Although, Crime Stop­timized, yet no worse than in Spring semester Among the major crimes of pers was initiated last year, past years. Typically, the In February there was the year that Rakow mentioned major efforts were made this beginning and ending of each serious car accident, said 

'88-'89 
Rakow. There are several steps that security takes after a student is involved in an ac­cident: 
•Security 
usually finds out that a student is involved in an ac­cident over their monitors. 

•Security 
then goes to the hospital to find out if the inci­dent is serious. 

•Security 
will then notify the student's rector and student af­fairs. 

•The 
student's parents are then notified by security depending on the seriousness of the injur­ies. 

•Campus 
ministry is contacted to provide support for the in­jured and friends and family of the injured. 


see SECURITY I page 7 
----~-----­
page 2 
WORLD BRIEFS 
Vasser Arafat said Tuesday the PLO charter, which calls for the destruction of Israel, is outdated and he favors a Middle East peace settlement based on the existence of both Israel and a Palestinian state. The PLO chairman was asked about the charter provision during a television interview on the first day of an official visit to France, and he replied: "I was elected on a political program which is founded on the basis of two states," Israel and Palestine. "As for the charter, there is an expression in French. It is 'caduc."' Caduc means outdated, or void. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
Actor-comedian Robin Williams marriedhisson'sformer nanny in a private ceremony in Lake Tahoe, a publicist an­nounced Monday. Just a few close friends attended the ceremony Sunday for Williams, 36, and Marsha Garces, said his publicist, Mark Rutenberg. Miss Garces is believed to be in her late 20s or early 30s. 
CAMPUS BRIEFS 
The John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation's Selection Committee has selected 198 artists, scholars and scien­tists from among 3144 applicants for Fellowship awards totaling $5,251,000. Guggenheim Fellows are appointed on the basis of unusually distinguished achievement in the past and exceptional promise for future accomplishments. Notre Dame Faculty mem­bers receiving the award include Kent Emery, assistant profes­sor, Program of Liberal Studies, for his work on the life and works of Denys Ryckel, and Thomas Kselman, associate profes­sor of history for his work on death and the afterlife in 19th­century France. Emery was also awarded a $65,000 grant from the National En­dowment for the Humanities for a project entitled, "A Critical Edition of Henry of Ghent's 'Quodlibet III.'" 
Emerson Electric Co. of St. Louis has forwarded its first installment of a $100,000 commitment to the University of Notre Dame to establish a junior faculty fellows program in the College of Engineering's Department of Electrical and Computer Engin­eering. "We are grateful to the Emerson Electric Co. for its timely and significant contribution to the work of a very impor­tant department in the University," said Father Edward Malloy, University President. Funds from the Emerson Electric Junior Faculty Fellows Program will be used to support the research of the department's young faculty members and also to under­write fellowships for graduate assistants. 
Father Richard McBrien, Crowley-O'Brien-Walter professor and chairman of the University of Notre Dame's Department of Theology will receive an honorary doctorate of letters from Quincy College in Illinois on May 14. McBrien, a native of Hartford, Conn., was ordained a priest for that city's archdiocese in 1962. Mter receiving his doctorate in theology from the Pon­tifical Gregorian University in Rome in 1967, he taught at Boston College and was a visiting professor at several Catholic colleges, universities and seminaries. He has been a member of Notre Dame's faculty and chairman of its theology department since 1980. Author of a syndicated column in the Catholic Press and a frequent commentator on ecclesial affairs, he is author of several articles and books on ecclesiology including the bestselling "Cat­holicism." 
WEATHER 

Here comes the sun 
Partly sunny and not as cool today. Highs around 60. Mostly clear tonight. Lows from 40 to 45. Partly cloudy and warmer Thursday with a 50 percent chance of thundershowers. Highs in the upper 60s. 
ALMANAC 
On May 3: e In 1764: The first U.S. medical 
school was proposed at the College of Philadelphia, now the University of Pennsylvania. 
e In 1802: Washington, D.C., was incorporated as a city, with the 
mayor to be appointed by the president, and the council elected by property owners. 
e In 1916: Irish nationalist 
Patrick Pearse and two others were executed by the British for their roles in the Easter Rising. 
e In 1987: The Miami Herald 
said its reporters had observed a young woman entering a Washington townhouse belonging to Democratic presidential candidate Gary Hart. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for Tuesdey, Mey 2, 1989 
Dow Jones 
Industrial Average 
·12.1 0 
Closed at 2402.86 
S&P 500 +1.00 to 308.12 Currency exchange 
Mark f-.001 to 1.8907 DMI$ Yen unchanged at 134.14 ¥1$ Pound +.0023 to 1.6818 $1£ 
Precious Metals Gold +$1.00 to $404.30 I oz. Silver+ 2.9¢ to $5.617 I oz. 
Source: Prudential Bache Securities 
lnfonnation compiled from Observer wires and Observer staff reports. 
Wednesday, May 3, 1989
The Observer 


Colleges play a role in math education reforms 
For a lot of freshmen, a major cause of stress during their first year at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is the minimum requirement of two semesters of math. 
Their high school math classes were bad enough. The same, boring homework problems were assigned every night. The math didn't have anything to do with the real world. Cal­culus was impossible to understand the first time, so why should it be any easier in college? 
Even those daring freshmen who choose to become math majors begin to wonder after a few semesters, "Is there more to math than problem sets?" 
What seems to everyone to be a personal prob­lem (a math "hangup," for example), is actu­ally a national crisis. The problems with math instruction permeate all levels of education in every corner of America. Just last month anum­ber of front-page news stories focused on declin­ing achievement levels among children in America. 
In the last few years, almost every education association in America has been clamoring for change in the way mathematics is taught. Reasoning and problem-solving should be em­phasized, say many leading math education ex­perts. Calculators and computers should become mainstays in the math classroom. Mathematics with real-world applications is the ideal. They also have criticized the outdated math education curriculums which, by recent studies, have proven to be failures. 
"Everybody Counts-A Report to the Nation on the Future of Mathematics Education," by the National Research Council is the latest of these reports. The 114-page book makes an in­teresting point which is of particular impor­tance to schools such as Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
"No reform of mathematics education is pos­ssible unless it begins with revitalization of un­dergraduate mathematics in both curriculum and teaching style," states the report. Colleges, which have a history of blaming the element3;ry and secondary education systems for the lack of math achievement, now are told to bear the responsibility to take action. 
Basically, there are two simple reasons be­hind this idea. The first is that, if you want to change the way math is taught in elementary and high school, the teachers have to be able to create the change. As the book puts it, "Since teachers teach as much as they were taught, university courses for prospective teachers 
OF INTEREST 

The Transfer Orientation Committee 
needs volunteers for next year. Come to the organizational meeting today at 8 p.m. in the Student Government Office in LaFortune Stu­dent Center, or leave your name and number at 239-7136. 
The Northern Ireland Awareness 
group will show the video "Off Our Knees," about the last 20 years in Northern Ireland beginning with the Civil Rights movement of 1968, in the Montgomery Theater, LaFortune, Thursday at 7 p.m. 
Seniors: moving to that new city when you graduate in May? Career and Placement Services would like to help you find that new roommatemousemate you need. Stop by the office and add your name to our "Information Exchange." 

'What seems to everyone to be a personal problem (a math "hang-up," for example) is actually a national crisis.' Pete Gegen 
Sports Writer 

must exemplify the highest standards of in­
struction." 

The second reason shows why education majors are not the only students who need to experience this change in math curriculum. Im­agine those students that hated math in high school trying to encourage their children to do something they despised. Public attitudes about math education need to change, say the math experts, in order to curb the downward trend in math achievement. 
Thanks to the two-semester math require~ ment, the math departments at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's both have excellent opportu­nities to put these ideas into action. Someth­ing as simple as a calculator can be a focal point in taking action. As it stands now, none of the 100-level math courses at Notre Dame allow the use of calculators on tests. Apparently using calculators in place of pencil-and-paper computations is tantamount to cheating. 
The Saint Mary's math department now al~ lows students to use calculators on tests. The computations become trivial, so the professors have to test for the students' ability to think problems through rationally. Since the pressure to obtain a single numeric answer is removed, students are free to devise creative solutions to problems. 
Students lose a valuable tool when they can­not use calculators in math class. Calculators have become so commonplace that they have changed the way people use math. 
But the use of calculators is just a minor point when it comes down to the National Research Council's recommendations. Colleges need to take some responsibility for math education in the United States. Change is what the NRC is asking for, and change is what students and teachers need. 
Pete Gegen is a senior mathematics I computer major and a sports writer for The Observer. 
Yearbooks will be distributed today from 12-4 p.m. in the Yearbook Office, 3rd Floor LaFortune. 
On campus seniors who received room deposit donation cards are asked to put their name and ID number on this card before it is returned to Student Residences, 311 Admin. Bldg. 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lecture Circuit announces on­campus and local lecturers. Campus an­nounces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submitted materials and determine if and where announcements will be published. 
---Ih-e-Obse.----~~r--&.--=•=-'-' 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) IS published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur­chased for 540 per year (525 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press All reproduction rights are reserved 
Design EdHor .............................. Kathy Gliwa Design Assistant ..................... Cheeer Griffin Typesetters................................... Mike Kolar 
.............................. Gilbert Gomez News Editor .......................... Christine Walsh Copy Editor............................... Missy Weber Sports Copy Editor............... Molly Mahoney VIewpoint Copy Editor ............. Mike Truppa VIewpoint Layout...................... Laura Manzi Accent EdHor ......................... Colleen Cronin Accent Copy EdHor ............. John Naccarato Accent Designer ........... Jane Diane Ricciardi Typist............................................ Sue Barton NO Day Editor............................. Kathy Bums SMC Day Editor ....................... Alissa Murphy Ada Designers .............................. Val Poletto ..........................................................Jodi Topel .................... : ........................... Tom Connaghan Sports Wednesday EdHor ........ Frank Pastor Business Paga Editor ............... Tim O'Keefe Business Page Copy Editor ........ Mike Kolar Business Page Layout .......... Janice O'leary 


--------~-~­
Wednesday, May 3, 1989 

AP Photo

Williams weds former nanny 
Robin Williams holds hands with Marcia Garces as they arrive at a New York party in October 1988. Williams married Garces, his son's former nanny, in a private ceremony in Lake Tahoe Sunday. 

The Observer page 3 

Knights expected to reapply 
By SARA MARLEY Senior Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame chapter of the Knights of Columbus, suspended by the Office of Stu­dent Mfairs last October, has not yet reapplied for club status, but is expected to next fall, said Father Peter Rocca, assistant vice president for stu­dent services. 
"We will be active again in the fall," said senior James Harrington, who was asked to be acting Grand Knight of the chapter by the Office of Student Mfairs in conjunction with the State Council. 
The chapter will exist on a probationary status for three years, said Harrington. 
The building, which was locked last October 3, will return to the organization Rocca said. 
According to Harrington, who will return for a fifth year, elections for officers will be held in the fall. 
"There is the agreement that any of those who served as of­
,.----------------------•ficers within the last two years
Make reservations now for graduation weekend. 
Dinner -Tuesday-Saturday 4:00 p.m. -11:00 p.m. 

Open Sunday May 21, 4:00pm-/ O:OOpm By PETE LOFTUS 
Staff Reporter
• Private parties accepted up to 100 people. 

/7\~ ' The plan for the United Limo 
OlJ • • Shuttle Service was announced
Carry-outs 
Q r ( 6 ( .0 

Tuesday at the Hall Presidents' 
available. 

R• t t Council meeting. 
IS oran e Sigi Loya, District Four rep­1412 South Bend·Ave.-South of the JACC on St Rd. 23 South Bend resentative, spoke on behalf of 
~--------~2~1:9-;;:232;:-4:2:44:.--------~ the Student Senate regarding
• the service. 
Clothing Drive 

The St. Vincent De Paul Society 
Hours 

Shuttle links campus, trains, airport 
will be ineligible to be offi­cers," said Rocca. 
Harrington said the status of those who previously acted as officers is unclear. 
Harrington has held organi­zational meetings in anticipa­tion of the chapter's resuming activities next fall. 
Rocca and Harrington both said they have been working closely with the state and na­tional organizations to re­establish the chapter. 
The council was susupended last semester "for the duration of the 1988-89 academic year," according to a letter from Fa­ther David Tyson, to serve "the best interests of the Knights, the Notre Dame Council, the University and all individuals involved." 
An ad hoc committee heard testimony from council mem­bers and leaders after allega­tions were brought forward by were brought by Father Patrick Sullivan, former moderator/chaplain of the local Knights and Michael Feeley, former Grand Knight, said former Chancellor Michael Faehner, in an article which 
The shuttle will run Sunday, August 27, from noon until 9 
p.m. It will run back and forth between the South Bend train station, Michiana airport and the main and library circles. 
Jay Farraher, the Student Government's executive coord­inator for Board of Trustees Reports, requested the HPC to get input from the student body as to what issues they want to see addressed in the reports. A senate committee submits reports to the Board of Trus­tees periodically throughout appeared in The Observer December 9. 
No disciplinary action against individuals was taken, said Rocca. At the time of the original Observer report, Rocca said, "Those investigat­ing the matter did not see fit to recommend that disciplinary action be taken." 
Rocca told Observer reporters at the time that the suspension came about "prin­cipally becasue of internal dif­ficulties and also a clarification of relations between the local Knights of Columbus, the Uni­versity and the Supreme Coun­
cil. " 
Also in a previous interview, Rocca said the Knights may reapply for University recogni­tion as a new organization through the Office of Student Activities at the beginning of the 198MIO school year. 
Joseph Cassidy, director of student activities, said, "I haven't heard anything from them at all. I anticipate they will reapply." 
The Office of Student" Activi­
see K of C 1 page 5 

the academic year. 
Such issues as co-residential housing, parking lot problems and off-campus housing have been addressed in these reports this past academic year. It is said that the board takes these reports very seriously and has taken steps to act on these is­sues. 
It was announced that the Porn Pon Squad's status as a club has been maintained by the administration. The HPC had submitted a letter in sup­port of the club last week. 
ATTENTION MARKETING MAJORS 
Wanted Campus Representatives for Fortune 500 company. Put your intellectual knowledge to PRACTICAL use. 
CALL 234-4055 ...Ask for Bill 



COLLEGE GRADS 
INTERES1ED IN INVFSflNG YOUR DEGREE 
IN A REWARDING CAREER OPPORTUNITY 
85% of the beHer paying ••• 
more creative positions are not to be found in any published source. If you are deserving of a better income or better opportunity, you need to access the "UNPUBLISHED NONADVERTISED" jobs in Indiana and Nation wide. 
Send your resume, letter or call today for a free and confidential career assessment 

9100 Keyslone ol the Crouing _ _8 
lndionopolis, IN ~62~0 1-8.00-759-6997 
31 7846 8 8 8 
INTERNATIONAL CONSULTANTS IN CAREER 
MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE OUTPlACEMENT Alao located In Cleveland, Columbu•, CJndnnatl, Loul•vllle, Boaton, Long Island, PhllacleiDhl.., ancLPitttburgh 
Call T. Brown for an appointment 





--------------------~---~---~-~--------~-~--­
page 4 

Public dissatisfied with Exxon's handling of oil spill 
Associated Press 
Consumers, environmen­
talists and politicians in scat­
tered cities joined Tuesday in 
a one-day "Boycott Exxon" 
campaign over its huge oil spill 
in Alaska and over rising 
gasoline prices in the industry 
in general. 
State attorneys general in the Northwest and U.S. senators from Nebraska called for a federal investigation of why gasoline prices have risen sharply since the March 24 Ex­xon Valdez spill. 
"We are beginning the war of words and actions against any oil company that doesn't understand its responsibility to protect the environment," said Massachusetts state Sen. Carol Amick at a boycott rally in Bos­ton. 
J. Surette, executive director of the Bay State Gasoline Retailers Association in Billerica, Mass., said his group surveyed dealers Tuesday but found that it was too early to assess the impact of the boycott. 
Surette accused Exxon Corp. of "obvious negligence" but said it was unfair for consu­mers to vent their anger at dealers, most of whom are small, independent busines­smen. 
Consumer activist Ralph Nader said in Washington that Exxon "should not be allowed to forget" the Alaskan spill and that a boycott was the way to send a message to the oil giant. 
Nader joined representatives from several environmental and consumer groups in accus­ing Exxon of failing to be prepared for the spill and not rapidly responding to the acci­dent that has fouled hundreds of miles of Alaska's coast. 
Consumer groups in Alaska and New York state also asked consumers to join the boycott. 
Exxon issued a statement calling the boycott unjust, and added: "Exxon believes in the 

Monk 
continued from page 1 
American Catholic univer­sities. 
Malloy said "We felt that our tradition of academic freedom and institutional autonomy had served the Church well and that some of the things being talked about had the potential to either disrupt that or to cause us a lot of problems with regard to civil law and also the climate that would prevail." 
The Congregation will now revise the document again and send it to the members of the commission by June. The com­mission will then consult with the whole congress to finalize the text and present it to the Congregation. 
After the congregation ex­amines the document, it will present the final version to Pope John Paul II, who is ex­pected to issue an apostolic constitution on the subject. 
The world congress, the first to be convened since 1972, con­sists of 170 members, including 18 American college and uni­versity presidents and 5 Amer­ican bishops. 

basic fairness of the American people and is confident that they will see, Exxon's employees, dealers and owners as victims of human error, not as an institution that should be discriminated against for an accident that occurred while we were doing our job." 
Concern over tight gasoline supplies for the summer driving season escalated fol­lowing the Alaska oil spill and an explosion at a North Sea oil rig. Crude oil prices have risen more than $7 a barrel since Jan­uary. 
Since the Exxon Valdez acci­dent, gas prices have increased an average 10 percent nation­ally, while the Pacific Northwest saw surges as high as 25 percent in less than a month, said Marla Rae, exec­utive assistant to Oregon Attor­ney General Dave Frohnmayer. 
The Observer Wednesday, May 3, 1989 

An Arab woman walks past posters protesting PLO leader Vasser Arafat's official visit in France Tuesday in Marseille, southern France. The posters read: "Arafat today! Khomeyni tomorrow?" 




(jraduate Student CUnion :Year f£nc{Socia[ 


Wednesday, May 3, 1989 The Observer page 5 
McFarlane to visit ND this fall 
scene," according to Matt
By RON SEVERINO 
Reuter, SUB's Ideas1ssues as­
Staff Reporter 
sistant commissioner. Former National Security Advisor Robert McFarlane will The ldeas1ssues Commis­speak at Notre Dame next fall sion, which sponsored speeches as part of a "Foreign Policy by Phillip Agee, Vladmir Poz­Week" sponsored by Student ner and Phil Donohue this past Union Board, according to SUB year, is set up ''to increase in­Ideas and Issues commissioner tellectual activity outside the Tony Lang. classroom," said Reuter. 
The week, which is scheduled The topic of the debate be­to occur Sept.14-19, will include tween College Republicans and a debate between College College Democrats will deal Republicans and College with "what the new U.S. secur­Democrats Sept.l8 followed by ity policy should be with the McFarlane's speech Sept. 19., new world conditions as they said Lang. exist today," said Reuter. 
McFarlane, a former Marine lieutenant colonel who was im­Japan's growing influence in 
AP Photo

Victory
plicated in the Iran-Contra af­the world and Russia's less bel­fair in 1987, will speak on licose nature suggest a need for "where the United States a new U.S. security policy, said 

Supporters of Bed Party, celebrate early Tuesday in downtown Asuncion, Paraguay, the victory of 
their candidate Gen. Rodriguez, who was elected Paraguayan President.
stands on the international Reuter. 
S a 

Chinese union presses gov't
election 

Associated Press took no part in the marches, about 10 p.m.the biggest in communist 
Molly Bringardner, BEIJING-Student leaders in China's history, and student ac­An American teacher said a tion commissioner, ...,..· , .....-~~ ..... Beijing on Tuesday gave the tivists say the talks won't class boycott, which started in the following Saint government 24 hours to recog­satisfy their yearnings for a Beijing and spread earlier this hall elections run-off nize their new student union or freer and more open China. week to Tianjin, has moved to from Monday; they would take to the streets Shanghai. About half of the stu­
In LeMans, Liz again. In Shanghai, thousands The protest in Shanghai, dents at Furlan University, the with 56 percent of the demonstrated for democracy China's most important city's leading school, are strik­over Colleen McCarthy and freedom. trading and industrial city, ing, said Jason Hurtado, of finished with 39 percent. The developments added began in the early afternoon Portland, Ore. 
Holy Cross elections new tension to a situation the when about 6,000 students, car­He quoted student activists 
Kerry Burke win with 52 government has been trying to rying banners reading "give us at Furlan as saying that student calm by holding talks with of­democracy and freedom,'' leaders from Beijing helped or­ficially sanctioned student uni­blocked traffic in front of city ganize the strike and the ons. government offices. march. Student leaders have 
Last week's activism crested also been sent to Beijing for with a march of 150,000 stu­Student leaders presented more coordination, he said. dents and their supporters in petitions demanding political Earlier, students from Tianjin China's capital. reform and the Xinhua News came to Beijing for guidance 
The official student unions Agency said the protest ended with their movement. 
$1.00 off for ND/SMC students (with ID) 

K of C 
continued from page 3 
ties has reserved the spot in front of the Knights of Colum­bus building for a concession
Packing and Shipping 

stand prior to each home foot­
Supplies 

ball game. The Knights will resume
U.P.S.-BUS-Emery 

their steak sales, one of the points of controversy in the fall, said Rocca. 
Next Day Service! 

Cassidy said club applica­tions come in on a rolling basis. 
! 
.-u at any point," said Cassidy. 
Tyson's letter to involved

~~~~~;~~~e~~~~~-o~~~~~~~~:~~~~~L~~~LAURA28
8 -•&21 ''A~~~~~~ 
_____________ members in October stated 
20%oFF 1 that guidelines would be LUMINIZING, lamended to show the Knights GLOSSING OR 1~~c~~~er the supervision of 
MISS CLAIROL COLOR Reg. $12.99&Up 
Nut vodiJ with any other offer. 
Harrington said no new con­
Coupon l'Xpin·s ';/_~ 1/89. KJ.,:;-lf!St:a. 

stitution has been drafted nor ~~la'mgiidal does he anticipate one. The Knights will also appoint 
D. 
$1. 500FF

Name: Elaina Ray a new moderator/chaplain in Occupation: Housewife ·1 SHAMPOO, the fall. On Her New Look ... "/ couldn't be I CUT & BLOW DRY 
happier. I've always been afraid to I Only $9.49 The Notre Dame Council, go to beauty salons because you Reg. $10.99 founded in 1911, is the nation's never know what to expect. The NorvuiiJwirhanyorhecuffer. oldest college Council of 
Coupon L·xpin:s 5/.\ I/H9. 
stylists at Fiesta were sensitive to 

,U~If!St:a. Knights, a fraternal Roman 
my needs and I thank them for 

~~la'mgiidal Catholic organization which
making me look andfeel beautiful. 

-------)------1promotes Catholic education
When your kids don't recognize you... that's dramatic!" 

lOTANNING 1and charity. SESSIONS 1.------------. I Only$22 
l 
w.~ I' : +~deC;~·:ns
) . Whiiebedcimeiso\5ll!avaitabiesfate.By O\l'f")intmcn"t only. 1 .&: 1 Nnt v<~.liJ w~rh any ocher offer
1>1scovcr your new look 
Cuupnn L·xpin:s '5/.~ IIH9

al an affordable price. Wl· usc, recommend and rerail NE:~us I
• 

1
Check Your Local Phone Listings No Appointments -justWalk In! for the Salon Nearest You. PAUL MITCHELL REDI<EN : ) &la'mgS<D> j Be a volunteer. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~---==::::::::::::::==~~~~------------_, 



page 6 
Tenure 
continued from page 1 
Some faculty members, however, are offered tenure immediately upon coming to the University. "When we bring in a faculty member from another institution, many times we offer them tenure im­
, mediately. Otherwise, they wouldn't come,'' O'Meara said. 
During the final year of the probationary period, tenure procedures begin. If the faculty member receives tenure, he becomes permanent member of the faculty. If, however, ten­ure is denied, the faculty mem­ber is allowed to teach at the University for one more year. 
"This extra year is given so they can look for another posi­tion," O'Meara said, adding that it is easier to find other positions in certain disciplines. "By the 1990s, however, it will be easy to find another position in any discipline," he said. 
When tenure decision procedures take place, a pack­age is created for each faculty 
U.S. and Germany seek arms agreement 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The United States is discussing with the troubled West German govern­ment a potential compromise to the dispute over short-range nuclear missiles that involves development of a non-nuclear West German rocket, U.S. offi­cials said Tuesday. 
The missile could target air­
-fields and other Warsaw Pact military installations now cov­ered by the nuclear-armed Lances that Chancellor Helmut Kohl is trying to persuade NATO to scale back and even­tually eliminate. The West German govern­ment decided in February to 
mentoftheFK90, Whichisclas­
!if::~g~s ;e~~~~~l ;~:~~~~i~ 
seeking a compromise in the 
dispute over the Lance missile, 
going ahead with the German 
missile is under discussion, 
said the officials, who spoke on 
condition of anonymity. 
Gen. Henning von Ondarza, the commander-in-chief of the West German army, is in Washington holding talks at the Pentagon and the State Depar­tment on options intended to ease the strains in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. 
Britain has lined up with the United States in trying to per­suade Kohl to agree to expand the range of the aging Lance and to drop his demand for U.S. negotiations with the Soviets on reducing short-range nuclear weapons. Norway, Denmark and other NATO countries are siding with West Germany. 
Failure to heal the rift could cloud President Bush's summit meeting in Brussels May 29-30 with the leaders of the NATO countries. 
Another option is to have NATO make unilateral cuts in its short-range nuclear weap­ons while challenging the Soviets to meet the lower levels, U.S. and NATO officials said. 

The Observer Wednesday, May 3, 1989 
member being considered. The package is made up of three main components. 
First, a biography of the fac­ulty member is assembled. It includes information on the person's educational back­groud, "what articles he has published, where he has worked, where he has given public lectures, and other notable contributions to the person's discipline or to the University," O'Meara said. 
The second part of the pack­age is made up of letters of re­commendation based on the person's published articles. "In September we sent out re­quests for these recommen­dations along with copies of what this person has published 
to scholars throughout the country. These people write candid descriptions of what they've read," O'Meara said. 
The final part of the package is made up of the minutes of the meetings of an elected com­mittee from the person's de­partment and the department chairman. This committee dis­cusses the tenure proposal. 
"The committee examines three components of the per­son's package: the person's teaching ability, scholarly work and their service to the University," O'Meara said. 
The committee determines the strentgh of a person in three ways. 
•Teacher-Course 
Evalua­tions. The committee examines all of the person's TCE's to get an idea of students' feelings for the person. 

•Reputation 
of the Individ­ual. The committee looks at how the person is perceived by other members of the depart­ment and the University. O'Meara said "The chairman of the department and the dean of the college will know if there 


is a teaching problem with an individual." 
•Visitations. "In some de­partments, members of the committee go in one at a time to view the person's teaching," said O'Meara. 
Mter evaluating the person's teaching ability, the committee looks at the person's scholarly work. The committee "as-

M A N A G E R 0 F 
P A S T 0 R A L C A R E 

St. Vincent Hospital and Health Care Center is a 1000-bed, 
multi-specialty, acute health care setting comprised of four 
institutions. We are currently seeking a Catholic individual for 
this challenging, full-time position. 
Selected candidate will have goal to seek certification of 
department by Catholic Health Association. Four units of CPE 
is mandatory with development of the CPE Program desired. 
ACPE/NACC supervisory certification is preferred; previous 
management experience required. 
St. Vincent offers a competitive salary, commensurate with 
qualifications, and an excellent benefit package. Please submit 
resume and salary history, in confidence, to: Sister Mary 
Elizabeth Cullen, V.P. of Mission Effectiveness, St. Vincent 
Hospital and Health Care Center, P.O. Box 40970, 
Indianapolis, IN 46240-0970, (317) 871-3960 (call collect). 
Equal Opportunity Employer. 

HJ;/ilanl
and11ealth Carf 
Cmter 

suspend research and develop-r---~~~1!!!!!!!1!1!!!!~~-----------------., 
/l~~-~--G-RE-,~ n-r~~--~-;,~~YHO~~
\,-~.:-f¥ _~ ~·~::;;·: ~:~ ~"::~;:;:. 
~ ._ J .,_, ,_, 
\~~ @ ® --------® 
GREYHOUND 
WILL BE ON CAMP(]S T(]ESDAY, MAY 9th THR(] S(]NDAY, MAY 14th TO PICK-{]P YO(]R TR(]NKS, BOXES, STEREOS, & BICYCLES FOR SHIPMENT HOME 
GREYHO(]ND TR(]CK WILL BE BEHIND BOOKSTORE MAY 9th THR(] MAY 14th FROM 1O:OOAM (]NTIL 4:30 PM SHIP PREPAID (CASH) OR COLLECT (LET MOM & DAD PAY) 
INDMD(]AL TR(]NKS & BOXES CANNOT EXCEED too+. WE'LL HAVE TAPE AND SHIPPING lABELS. 

sesses the letters of recommen­
dation on the person's schol­
arly abilities and then assess 
the articles themselves," said 
O'Meara. 

Next, the committee "examines how the person has been of service to the Univer­sity," said O'Meara. When they have completed the evaluation, the commttee votes on the per­son. 
Regardless of these decisions the package is sent to the Provost's office in mid­January. By the beginning of February, O'Meara has received 60 or 70 packages. 
Next, the deans of all four colleges, the dean of the Fresh­man Year of Studies, several vice-presidents of the Univer­sity and O'Meara meet to ex­amine all of the packages. 
O'Meara said that all of the members of this panel vote on each package. "Thus, the Dean of the College of Business votes on the packages from the other three colleges and the Law School and vice-versa," he said. 
Mter the vote, there is a five­week period in which any ques­tions are clarified. "Sometimes problems come up-something's missing perhaps-we then have about five weeks to find out what's missing and to clarify the pic­ture on an individual basis. 
Finally, the complet~ pa~k­age is presented to Umvers1ty President Father Edward Mal­loy. Malloy examines all of the packages and mak~~ th~ final decision. This dec1s1on lS the one which will be mailed out on 


Wednesday, May 3, 1989 

AP Photo
Remembering Lucy 
Fans along Hollywood Boulevard in Hollywood, Calif., sign a block­long sympathy card to late comedian Lucille Ball Monday morning. 
Don''t be late getting horne-­Get your car fixed before you leave. 
t •====-~. ~ 
"~ 
Call NATIONAL PARTS & REPAIR 233-2584 1509 W. Western Ave. Be one of our satisified customers! 
The Observer 
page 7 

Security 
continued from page 1 
Rakow said that if parents 

plan to come to the hospital, 
security will help to arrange 
transportation for them, said 
Rakow. 
Since the computer thefts on 

campus, security has made 
several recommendations for 
various electronic security 
devices. Security has followed­
up on some of the recommen­
dations, said Rakow. 
Rakow said security is in­vesting the false identification production on campus. As it is a felony to produce fake ID's, campus police is working jointly with other law enforce­ment agencies on this project, said Rakow. As for any arrest for using a fake ID, Rakow said security passes on the arrest information to the Office of Stu­dent Affairs, said Rakow. The aarrest reports are public 
records, according to Rakow. 
Bookbag thefts from the 

dining hall were a problem this 
year, said Rakow. He said se­
curity has tried surveillances, 
yet he said it's difficult to tell 
if a person is piCking up his or 
her own bag. "It's an area we 
need to address," said Rakow. 
He said that presently there's 

a warrant issued for people 
from town who stole books and 
cashed them in. Some theft is 
from the outside, said Rakow, 
but some is from within. Secur­
ity has tried to "brainstorm" a solution, said Rakow. He did say that bicycle theft has been pretty good this year. 
Vandalism to cars parked in University lots has been a prob­lem again this year, said Rakow. "It's a hard crime to detect," according to Rakow. He said that car vandalism usually comes in streaks. Al­though officers patrol the lots, it only takes a few minutes for damage to be done and an of­ficer can easily miss the crime by minutes, said Rakow. Many vandalism crimes are commit­ted by juveniles, according to Rakow. He also said that secur­ity will "never alleviate the problem entirely." 
"The Oak Room was a hard issue," said Rakow. He said it was very popular up until a cer­tain time of night. Rakow said that vandalism was prevalent on football weekends. He added that doors were kicked in, a sink was torn off a wall, there was theft of food and some­times inebriated patrons abused staff. 
Three hundred more cita­tions were issued this year as security officers expanded their role to traffic enforce­ment. Speed is checked by radar on Douglas, Juniper, Edison and Angela, said Rakow. Traffic is important, said Rakow, as security is trying to "keep the campus pedistrian." 
Rakow said that security received a grant from the state of Indiana from a drunk driving task force fund. The $4,800 is used to pay for overtime patrols, said Rakow. 
The future 
In the beginning of the year there was much talk about building a tunnel under or an overpass U.S. 31. Rakow believes that a tunnel would cause a security risk, espe­cially for females. As for an overpass, Rakow cited an over­pass in South Bend that is historically not used. "People will take the shortest path," said Rakow. "This does not say that I am not concerned," said Rakow. 
Talk about a 24 hour lounge almost always includes con­cern over the security risk. Rakow said he would have no problem with a 24 hour social space on campus as long as se­curity was "on the front side of the decision." 
In the future, Rakow predicts that shuttles to parking lots could be necessary. With the new construction on Green Field and the new ROTC and band buildings near Loftus, 
Rakow believes that student parking will be extended past the stadium near Alumni Senior Club and past Stepan on the opposite side of campus. Parking garages might also be an option, said Rakow. He hopes that security will be asked for input when new lots are planned. 

Security busiest after noon 
By KELLEY TUTHILL have been trained at the police Senior Staff Reporter academy and have the author­ity to make arrests, said 
Campus security staff is at Rakow. its highest levels during the af­Security officers primarily ternoon shift, while the are responsible for securing daytime is the least busy time, campus buildings on foot said according to Rex Rakow, direc­Rakow. Security officers patrol tor of security. the buildings in a "systemati­
Police officers are usually cally unsystematic" pattern, armed and often patrol in cars, said Phil Johnson, assistant said Rakow. Police officers director of security. 
Daily campus security staff 
includes: •Two walking 
patrols, primarily securing 
buildings
COMING HOME TO CHICAGO 
•Two or three (afternoon) car patrols
THIS SOMMER? 
•One 
patrol at each gate 

•One 
dispatch 


•One 
or two (afternoon) offi­cers at the JACC 

•One 
or two investigators 


The extra afternoon patrol car is used for traffic control, said Johnson. The JACC utilizes an extra officer during the busy afternoon hours. The evening shift includes the residence hall monitors from 11 p.m. to 7 a.m. 

The investigators are used to follow up any case with a lead, said Rakow. These officers search the scene, perform sur­veillances and handle plain clothes situations, said Rakow. 
Officers are also used at the Snite Museum of Art and the Alumni Senior Club, said Johnson. 
~"' ~ e ·l:l3fl 3Hl !SV::>A008 '!Sv::>A008 ... "······..!.'!~"!-'ltv • DID " ND. 1 Ll'­
~ ~ t..."'''f!J>· c .,,...y,...,,.,,..,,.. ............. ,....,..,......,, -n:.... .... ,...._ ·o;ou Pt.,q'r"E
We have jobs waiting!!! 
"'o,.,~~~~ ~BUY CLASSIFIEDS.....'::.~."'>E 
iH

" ,o "' ~ '<i tJo,1 IRr I 
~~C8~~0J 
Full-time, part-time, day-time, night-time Jobs to fit your summer schedule! 
• General Office • Wordprocessing • Secretarial • • Customer Service • Telemarketing • Typing • • Reception • Data Entry • Factory • • Light Industry • and more! • 
We offer great pay, benefits & bonuses! Call today for more information! 
THURS., 
MAY4, 
from 1-3 p.m.

Downtown 
Oak Brook 781-7220 571-3900 
Eight locations to serve you throughout the Chicagoland area: 
Stop by for a philosophical laugh
Downtown (Michigan Ave. & Randolph St.), Oak Lawn, River Forest, Oak Brook, Aurora, Hanover Park and Skokie 
and an autograph! 
Business 
Wednesday, May 3, 1989
a e 8 

Leading economic indicators dive 2 months in a row 


Associated Press Analysis said the latest nega­from the drought-adjusted 3.5 it has flashed two false reces­
tive signals from the leading in­percent pace for the final quar­sion signals since the· 1981-82 WASHINGTON-The govern­dex are in line with signs that ter of 1988. Monthly reports on economic downturn, one of ment's chief economic the U.S. economy is losing the economy's performance in them in the months after the forecasting gauge plunged 0.7 steam and with the widespread February and March sugges­stock market crash. percent in March, the second expectations that the slowdown ted a progressive weakening straight decline and the biggest will become more pronounced during the first quarter. In March, nine of the 11 in­drop in eight months, the Com­as the year progresses. "The underlying growth rate dicators that make up the merce Department said today. The debate among in the economy is much below leading index declined, with a 
It was the first time the Index economists is whether the end last year and the risks of a drop in the building permits 1--.-.oo-----------...-----l of Leading Economic In­result will be an outright reces­recession certainly are counting as the biggest nega-1----=---,--==-==--••~--.~ dicators, which dropped 0.3 sion or a so-called "soft lan­higher," said economist tive factor. percent in February, had ding," in which growth slows Sandra Shaber of the Futures 
posted back-to-back declines just enough to relieve inflation­Group in Washington. "To be a Other negatives included: a 1--IH._.,-.a.~._.u..._.._.-a-.J 
since it fell for five straight ary pressures without bringing prudent planner, you have to dip in manufacturers' orders ~--:-:;;;-~u..'--•...uuH..I-a-l 
months from September 1987 a halt to the expansion. take those risks into account." for consumer goods; a shorter 1----1._.._.~--a.~......l-ll._.~ 
through January 1988, the The economy expanded at a March's decline in the average work week; an in-
months surrounding the Octo­strong 5.5 percent annual rate leading index, which is de­crease in initial claims for job-~-cc:~...._.~a.~._...._.~._.--..! ber stock market crash. during the first three months signed to predict economic ac­less benefits; a drop in an index 1-----l..._.~~a.~......l-ll._.~ 
While many analysts feared of the year, but the growth in tivity six to nine months into measuring consumer confi­that the nation was headed for the gross national product was the future, was the biggest fal­dence; faster vendor a recession after the market a more modest 3 percent, dis­loff since a 0.8 percent drop last deliveries, signaling slower collapse, the economy counting a statistical quirk July. demand; a contraction in the rebounded with vigor and the reflecting the bounce back The traditional signal of a money supply; a decline in record peacetime expansion is from last year's drought. recession is three straight manufacturers' unfilled orders IIEllTII'i#®4Ii!.i!:filiili!m!!i!d now in its seventh year. That was down somewhat declines in the index. However, and falling stock prices. 
New Disney theme park opens 
Associated Press acters, unless you want to ties and previews for 3,000 jour­By TIM O'KEEFE count Washington D.C.," joked nalists and family members, Senior Staff Reporter LAKE BUENA VISTA, Hope. plus thousands of other invited 
FLA.-Disney-MGM studios "The world you have entered guests.
Ford Motor Co. opened its $400 million theme was created by the Walt Disney Some 40 movie and television incentives for gr~:tdtmtiing park on Monday, hoping to lure Company and is dedicated to stars attended a Saturday night college students, includin2 the nostalgic to its version of Hollywood . . . a world that gala and paraded down the 
· · · • cash allowance and --.;;'''''''"''''•·• Hollywood's golden era and never was and always wiii be," park's Hollywood Boulevard in approved credit. thrill-seekers to rides that will Eisner told the crowd. vintage automobiles SaturdayAnyone .. earning . a bac• take them to places like A Pennsylvania carpenter · night. Among them were Bette belor's or ., post~gradua~~ Catastrophe Canyon. and his family led the way Midler, Lauren Bacall, George degree between Oct. 1, 1963 The 135-acre complex blends through the gates as the first Burns, Audrey Hepburn, Betty and Jan. 31, 1990 and who is filmmaking with backstage visitors at the Florida attrac­White and Kevin Costner. bti:$tg a new ,Ford :o,t; studio tours and ride-through, tion. At the same time Disney was Lincoln-Mercury car is eJi. walk-through attractions. "We wanted to be first and opening a new park, Eisner an­
gible for the cash allowance, Movie and TV production beat the crowd but never ex­nounced another project: a said Jon Harmon, Ford's as-began last summer on its three pected anything like this," said second nighttime entertain­. sistant manager for public sprawling sound studios and Allan Gutierrez, 37, as he and ment attraction to be called affairs. He added that the backlot street scenes. his wife, two daughters and Disney Boardwalk. It will have 
$400 is on top of any other The new attraction on the en­father-in-law strolled into the restaurants, retail shops and incentives offered by Ford tertainment giant's 43-square­park. nightclubs reminiscent of At­or the dealer, and that it may mile Central Florida resort "It's incredible," said Mary lantic City in the 1930s and be received as a direct pay­complements its other two Gutierrez, 37, about their back­1940s. Boardwalk is expected to ment or applied to a. down theme parks: the Magic to-hack appearances on na­open in 1992. payment. The buyer does Kingdom and Epcot Center. It tional television and meetings The ambience is nostalgic,not have to wait for a rebate has its own admission fee: $29 with a gamut of Hollywood and the architecture is art to be mailed. ..... for adults and $23 for children stars attending the grand­deco, similar to oldtime Miami 
The other:: major part!iof> 3 to 9. opening ceremonies. and the newly restored South Ford's program for seniors, Disney Chairman Michael Disney officials would not Miami Beach area. said Harmon, is pr~ Eisner and comedian Bob Hope disclose attendance figures, Major park features, in addi­approved credit. uMany col· were on hand to do the opening but at least 15,000 were ex­tion to the two-hour backstagelege graduates don't want to day honors on an outdoor stage pected for opening day. Most tour, include The Great Movie use their parents as a co­in front of a re-creation of attractions were crowded. Dis­Ride, the Indiana Jones Epicsigner when buyin~ a ne-,: Grauman's Chinese Theater on ney hopes to attract 3 million Stunt Spectacular theater car,·~ said Harmon. For Hollywood Boulevard. to 5 million visitors a year. show, Catastrophe Canyon, a those who qualify, no co­"It's the largest theme park The grand opening followed Monster Sound Show and an signature is necessary, an,q run by actors, or cartoon char-a star-studded weekend of par-Animation Center. 
Companies are now trying to polish their international image 
By LOUIS RUKEYSER 
Tribune Media Services 
If corporations were individuals, they'd have the highest psychiatrist bills on the planet. Hardly anybody loves a big business at the best of times, and when trouble hits it doesn't take long for disdain to turn into disgust. Just ask Exxon, the latest target of credit-card slicers and late-night com­ics. 
And now, as never before, the tradi­tional public-relations woes of the mighty are taking on international overtones. Given the global nature of modern commerce, it's possible these days for a fat cat to be vilified simul­taneously in 87 languages. And so cor­porations have begun to invest millions of dollars in programs designed to bol­ster their images far beyond their own frontiers. 
The immediate impetus is the coming integration of 12 European nations in 1992 into a unified, barrier-free market of 320 million consumers, 75 million more than in the U.S. Suddenly, what they think of Colossus, Inc. in Bar­celona will rank with the view from Biloxi. And the result has been a bonanza for a handful of companies specializing in "corporate identity" projects. 

The typical American executive, con­fronting this need to be appreciated in a baffling variety of foreign cultures, is reminiscent of the sad-eyed Arab potentate in an old New Yorker cartoon who complained to a companion, "None of my wives understands me." 
It's not just an American dilemma, of course. Asian and European compan­ies, too, are scrambling to position themselves for the changes they see coming in 1992. To take advantage of these and other far-flung opportunities, corporations that once took pride in hometown ties are rushing to transform 
themselves into non-chauvinistic mul­
tinationals. 

As the imminent changes in Europe 
make clear, the worldwide competition 
for markets is intensifying, and 
shakeouts are expected in many indus­
tries. Already there is widespread 
evidence of major European and Amer­
ican corporations changing direction, 
acquiring businesses from one another 
and forming joint ventures that blur 
existing images and create the need to 
establish new or revised identities. 
As Ken Love of Anspach Grossman Portugal put it to me, "The reshaping of Europe for the watershed of 1992 is in full swing. Corporations of all sizes are getting ready, restructuring and es­tablishing stronger, more aggressive identities." 
While the economic war for a newly unified Europe is the headline cause, the corporate-identity game has in fact been booming throughout the 1980s. When Burroughs merged with Sperry, an employee contest produced the name Unisys, a brand-new brand name intended to produce a brand-new cor­porate loyalty. On the other hand, the First National City Bank of New York went back into history for its new, in­ternationally neutral name, Citibank; it had been founded in 1812 as City Bank. And Consolidated Foods, which analysts long considered as boring as its name, switched to the globally recognizable name of one of its prod­ucts, Sara Lee. 
More and more companies have been heeding the advice of management phi­losopher Peter Drucker, who con­trasted the world's growing political fragmentation with its growing economic integration, concluding that "a global strategy is appropriate to our times." In the 21st century, the last thing a corporation's image may tell you is where its chief executive lives. Which is often, from the CEO's point of view, a darned good thing. 

--------------------------------------------~­

Viewpoint
Wednesday, May 3, 1989 page 9 



P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-chief Chris DonnellyManaging Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor .••. Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor ............•.... Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager .••••••Shannon Roach Sports Edltor ......••.•.........••• Theresa Kelly Production Manager•••••.••••. Aiison Cocks Accent Editor •••.•.••••...•...••..••.•• John Blasi Systems Manager······-····· Mark Derwent Photo Editor ·--·······················Eric Bailey OTS Dlrector....•••••••••••••••Angela Bellanca 
Controller···---·················· Anne Undner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni· versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary·s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of e~her inst~ution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-chief. Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor. Accent Ed~or. Photo Editor. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to ail members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 
TCE's must be re-evaluated now 
As the semester comes to an end, students begin 
to look forward to exams, graduation, summer vaca­
tion and Teacher Course Evaluations--well, maybe 
not the TCE's. 
The only benefit most students get from the cur­
rent TCE's is a shorter class period. The TCE's do 
not help improve the class or give the students a 
sense that their voices are being heard. 
The theory and reasoning behind the TCE's is 
sound but in practice they have failed to live up to 
the expectations of students and teachers alike. The 
purpose of the TCE's is to give the teachers feedback 
on the quality of their course and where it needs 
improvement. Over the years, however, students 
have become increasingly apathetic about filling 
them out and teachers have not always taken the 
advice they receive from the TCE's to heart. 
Both the questions and the method of distribution 
of the results must be changed in order to fulfill the 
needs of both students and teachers. The questions 
must better reflect the quality and shortcomings of 
class, and the results should be made public. 
The current questions do not adequately gauge the 
class. The majority of the questions are negative, 
and they do not cover the aspects of the class stu­
dents are most interested in commenting on. 
The results of the TCE's should be made public to 
students. Making the results public would not only 
benefit students in their class selection process but 
would also increase student input because they 
would be seeing the results of their labors. 
Students at Brown University produce a critical 
review of courses every semester. The evaluation 
forms are handed out by teachers, and the results 
are then tabulated by the editorial staff of the Critical 
Review. The Review is distributed to the students 
before pre-registration. A publication similar to the 
review with the support of both students and the 
administration would be an addition to the Notre 
Dame campus that would benefit both faculty and 
students. 
DOONESBURY 
HEY, J. J. / {)0 
LETTERS 

Aggressive action provides solution to apartheid 
Dear Editor: pressive government holds through investment really 
I read Kevin Smant's column civil liberties captive and vi­bring about a change? Does (The Observer, April 25) with olates human rights. They vio­anyone really believe that the great interest, for he was late the very premises upon situation. will stay peaceful making an argument that I which we founded our own long enough for black South have likewise been making for country and the rights which Africans to gain their rightful quite some time. I, too, see a we consider to be unalienable. place in South Africa great deal of similarity be­In response, the U.S. supports (assuming that that day could tween the situation in South economic sanctions. ever come)? Africa and other repressive Where is consistency? Or is Let's face reality: the situa­governments throughout the communism really that much tion in South Africa can only world. South Africa does not worse than racism? Granted, culminate in violence, and have a monopoly on im­an aggressive communist na­when it does, the black leaders morality, and there is no rea­tion in our own hemisphere is will be none too pleased with son to single it out for special threatening, but that alone our patient solutions. Present treatment. However, my final does not explain or justify the solutions are not working and conclusion is somewhat differ­tremendous disparity of com­will not work. The only circum­ent than Smant's: to para­mitment between the two stance that will bring about di­phrase his "lesson to South courses of action. Of course, vestment is lack of Africa," declare yourself to­communism is an expansion­profitability. Social unrest is morrow a Marxist state, and ary philosophy and racism is not profitable. To me (and I am the U.S. will make a commit­not, but could any form of gov­sure to many South Africans, ment to forging a solution. ernment possibly be more un­such as Moses Mayekiso who 
Historically, the U.S. has just than one that routinely dis­was recently acquitted of his responded aggressively, or at criminates against the attempt to overthrow the gov­least supported aggressive majority of its constituents, as ernment), such a situation may reponses, to governments that occurs in South Africa? call for a violent response and behave in ways that we con­Minimizing the expansionary the sacrifice that violence en­sider unjust. For example, in threat of communism is impor­tails. Unlike in Nicaragua, the Nicaragua, a government that tant, but so is justice. Eco­repression of the South African the U.S. considers oppressive nomic sanctions are little more is ind~bitable. Assuming one's holds civil liberties captive and than symbolic. It takes an ir­conscience condones violates human rights. They vi­reversible, pronounced step militarism and intervention, olate the very premises upon that implies a great commit­there is just cause for aggres­which we founded our own ment to eliminate a sive action in South Africa. country and the rights which grotesquely unjust form of gov­Furthermore, given the we consider to be unalienable. ernment, a commitment the large black majority, this is a In response, the U.S. supports U.S. is unwilling to make. revolution that could be won. the Contra rebel forces who Does anyone really believe And we could feel good about have been favorably compared that sanctions will work or that it. to our very own founding Coca-Cola would pull out of forefathers. The situation in South Africa if Notre Dame Tim Clark South Africa is very similar, were to divest? Can maintain­Flanner Hall but our response is not. An op-ing a voice in South Africa April 26, 1989 
Anti-Apartheid opposes morally wrong practice 
Dear Editor: The specific goal of the Anti­oppose the University's prac­
In response to Kevin Smant's Apartheid Network is not to end tices simply to rebel against a April 25 column, I would like to apartheid or push the Congress surrogate parent. We do so for point out that he has entirely to impose sanctions against two reasons: 1) We believe missed the point of the Notre South Africa, although we apartheid to be morally wrong Dame anti-apartheid move­would certainly like to see and 2) We feel investing in a ment. He has tried to diminish these things happen. Our goal nation which practices apar­the evils of apartheid by bring­is to persuade the University to theid is morally wrong and in­ing up other states that prac­act in accordance with Christ­herently contradictory to Notre tice repression which do not ian values and divest. Dame's values. We don't hate receive as much attention on Secondly, I would like to ad­the University; we hate to see campus. dress Mr. Smant's interpreta­the University acting in a way 
The reason that apartheid tion of our reasons for protest­that conflicts with Christian receives so much attention at ing the University's values. Notre Dame is that the Univer­investments in South Africa. sity does not invest in these While his interpretation sounds Amy Eckert other repressive nations as it very nice psychologically, it is Lewis Hall continues to do in South Africa. very untrue factually. We don't April 25, 1989 
Pool tournament deserved more coverage 
Dear Editor: early rounds, culminating in a would not have taken much ef-
On April 23, Greg Streigel 100-89 final match. "Minnesota • .fort to cover a pool match in won the campus-wide pool MCATs," as he is known the same building as The Ob­tournament. On April 24, that around LaFortune, delighted server's offices. Monday, The Observer re­the many that watched the final We hope The Observer will ported Greg's victory by print­match. make amends and give Greg ing one line in the "Campus While The Observer devoted the little exposure he deserves. Briefs" section on the inside its sports section to the ongoing God knows pre-meds can use cover of the paper. Bookstore Basketball tourna-the help. 
The tournament consisted of ment in the early rounds, it Jim Karrels over 100 contestants and many failed to recognize the final Jim Johnson top notch pool players. Greg match of a tournament that had Sorin Hall survived many traumatic been proceeding for weeks. It April 28, 1989 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
60l?... HO/AJ YES, I l?O, 
YOU !<NOW WHO'S &lr18.4RRA551NG. IT'$ H/3RB ... Pl<&51l?/3NTRIGHT OMY, WHO 15/T? H/3RB 50M/3­NOUP \ _,v~-... UM... THING,..
\ 
\
""' 

'Where most of us end up there is no knowing, but the hellbent get where they are going:' 
James Thurber 

r------­
Viewpoint 
Wednesday, May 3, 1989
page 10 
-~ 

Chinese students lead fight for democracy 
By Liang Zhu 
Recent Chinese political his­tory dictates that the death of a senior political leader could become a turning point for China's politics. 
In April 1976, memorials in honor of Zhou Enlai, former Chinese Prime Minister for more than 20 years, eventually turned into anti-Government riots, now known as the "Tiananmen Square Incident." The death of Mao Zedong in September 1976 marked the end of the diastrous 10-year "Cultural Revolution." Again, the death of former Commu­nity Party chief Hu Yaobang, who was widely regarded as the most liberal of China's top leaders and forced to resign in disgrace in January 1987 after nationwide student demonstra­tions, has triggerted a nation­wide student demonstration calling for more freedom and democracy. 
It is a tragedy that the poli­tical future and development of a country of 1.1 billion people is deeply related to the passing away of a few particular indi­viduals. However, under a totalitarian system, this is the way people reflect on the poli­tical situation and stimulate change. 
Actually, Hu's death can be seen either as a substantial rea­son or as a political excuse for the latest student demonstra­tions. As a substantial reason, Hu Yaobang who helped navigate China away from or­thodox Marxism, became in­creasingly popular among Chinese students and intellec­tuals as a symbol of democracy and change. That is why thousands of students reacted in sadness and anger to Hu's death and honored him as the "soul of China." 
At the same time, the current student unrest can also be con­ceived as a logical develop­ment or a peak point of the on­going democracy movement in China, which started in fact last summer as a negative response to the increasing eco­nomic retrenchment and poli­tical restraint. 
In January 1989, a group of China's prominent writers, scholars and artists, led by Fang Lizhi, the best-known po­litical dissident, were pressing for more democracy with an open letter to the Communist Party requesting an amnesty of Wei Jingsheng and other po­litical prisoners, who were sent to jail for 3 to 15 years for hel­ping to lead the democarcy movement at the end of the 1970's. Since then, more than 110 intelelctuals in China, more than 2,000 Chinese students studying in America and many in Hong Kong and Taiwan have signed petitions calling for such an amnesty. Most recent­ly, 47 most respected Chinese scientists, who have never showed strong political inter­ests, also handed in an open let­ter to China's party leaders claiming more freedom, democracy and the same am­
nesty. 
Now China's students and in­tellectuals continue to strive for more freedom and democracy. An interesting question would be: What are the fundamental dynamics of China's pro-democracy move­ments? I would like to attribute the incentives to Chinese Gov­ernment's self-contradictory reform policy. Since Den Xiaoping launched Chinese po-
M 
L­
B 

litical and economic reforms in 1978, party leaders have been much more bold, eager and tolerant in economic reform than in political reform. The underlying rationale is that since economic prosperity is the only way to regain the popular credibility which the Communist party lost by the 10­year Cultural Revolution, and to justify the party's highly concentrated political leader­ship, any kind of economic ideas or advice which may help the Government promote eco­nomic develpment will be granted regardless of whether they are from capitalist eco­nomic theory or Marxist ideol­ogy. On the other hand, party leaders are very cautious and reluctant to concede on politi­cal reform, namely the freedom of press, the freedom of expression, the democratiza­tion of policy-making, the free election, and so on. Recently, party propaganda officials have even tightened the party's decades-old media monopoly and odered the media to avoid reports on sensitive economic and political problems that could fuel "ideological chaos" and social unrest. However, a policy dilemma is that a decade of market-oriented economic reforms and opening to the West has shaken China's clois­tered society and creating a new thirst for independent thinking and open-mindedness among the people. Economic reform has helped build a foun­dation for democracy. By ex­
tolling private business and ap­proving independent legal practice, the party has uninten­tionally encouraged the Chinese to claim their basic human right to be free of state control. Under these circum­stances, how can China's gov­ernment perpetuate a basic principle of Chinese political culture that stymies democracy? Perhaps the true assumption must be: "China could never be modern unless it became democratic first," rather than "Political democracy will be a by-product of economic modernization." 
Compared to the previous pro-democracy movements, the latest student protests have several distinct characteris­tics: First, they are better or­ganized. A joint committee of delegates from Beijing area universities are effectively leading by making decisions on common actions, collecting students' demands and eventu­ally negotiating with governmental officials. Second, though the seven demands revised and agreed upon by the joint committee seem unlikely to be accepted by the government at this point, they are more substan­tial and realistic than previous slogans. Third, students have paid more attention to their struggle strategies. In order to further the movement students are turning from street demonstrations to boycotting classes. Also students are very successful this time in making people understand them and support them. It is reported that the illegal pro-democracy demonstrations in the capital have attracted more than 100,000 people at their peak. Student leaders are planning to send delegations to factories to solicit support from workers. I do remember that when a stu­dent leader was talking about the experience of 1986-87 stu­dent movement, he stated: "The demonstrations were a failure, not because we were punished or cracked down on but because we didn't win the sympathy of the people." 
The final question that most people are concerned about is whether the government will again crash down or repress the current pro-democracy movements by using its strong police power. Actually, when the government will strike down the 1989 student move­ment is simply a matter of time. One thing is for sure: In the foreseeable future, the Communist Party is likely to resist democratic reform and put down any challenge to its rule. The government is facing a very difficult choice: on the 
one hand, if they crash the stu­dent movement now by using police power, the student protests will certainly come back again on May 4; on the other hand, the students are likely to protest at least until May 4, if the government still restrains its intervention. 
However, as it is pointed out above, what is important is not what will be the ending of the 1989 student pro-democracy movement, but the message sent by China's students and in­tellectuals to the party leader­ship that people believe the di­rection of reform is going badly. Ten years ago, the punishment to Wei Jingsheng's clear and daring calls for greater democracy was a 15­year sentence. In 1987, the cost to Fang Lizhi for his advocacy of democracy and human rights was that he was dis­missed from his job as vice president of the prestigious University of Science and Technology and expelled from the Chinese Communist Party. Successive student democratic movements have contributed a lot to the process of democratization and will con­tinue to tug China toward the long road to democracy. 
Liang Zhu is a graduate student at the Institute ofInternational Peace Studies. 
LETTERS 

Volunteers needed to help homeless for summer 
Dear Editor: Homeless. This past semester, community. Any students, fac­
With the school year coming over 300 undergraduate stu­ulty, or staff members who are to a close, we all have a lot on dents spent time at the new planning to remain in the area our minds. Most of us are center, helping to serve meals for any part of the summer are trying to wrap up the semester and providing a place to stay asked to consider giving up before heading home to our for the homeless of Michiana. some time to help out. Anyone family and friends. In just a Student volunteers accounted interested please call Sister few weeks, the campus will be for almost half the total over­Jeannine Jochman at the cen­almost completely empty of night corps. The center plans ter. students. The South Bend com­to remain open during the sum­munity, however, will still be mer, but the departure of the Thanks again to all of this here, and for almost three students is going to create a year's volunteers for a job well months it will be without the shortage of volunteers. done. I'm looking forward to many services which students working with you again in Sep­supply during the school year. This summer, volunteers will tember. 
be needed in all capacities to Stephen Raymond 
One place where student vol­help the South Bend Center for ND/SMC Volunteers for the unteers will be greatly missed the Homeless continue its ser­Homeless is the South Bend Center for the vice to the unfortunate of the April 25, 1989 
Condom dispensers provide health protection 
Dear Editor: tion of these dispensers is an dispensers in the Commons 
I was very dissappointed by attempt to save lives; it does bathrooms was a logical and Les Syren's letter to the editor not make sense to compare responsible decision by the (The Observer, April 28). The condoms to knives, bullets, or owner. It is unfortunate that author of this article inferred drug needles. For people who members of the Notre Dame that the appearance of condom do have sex, whether they are community feel threatened by dispensers at the off-campus a Notre Dam~aint Mary's stu­this safety precaution. bar was as dangerous as offer­dent, or a member of the South ing drugs or "free bullets for Bend community, encouraging murderers." condoms is a protective mea­Jennifer Osborn 
sure against AIDS as well as Holy Cross Hall In fact, Syren's reasoning it­unwanted pregnancy. Saint Mary's College self "defies logic." The addi-I think that putting condom May 1, 1989 
Senior reflection groups help to make sense of it all 
Dear Editor: during my time here to have 
·As a graduating senior I often others with which to share my find myself looking back on my experiences, questions and time here as a student at Notre doubts--especially over the Dame. I believe my life has course of this last year when I -changed quite significantly have been forced to seriously from the time I first carried my reexamine my goals. bags up the steps of Sorin Hall. One particular way in which And, judging from those that I I have been able to do this is have been associated with over by participating in a Senior my four years here, I believe Reflection Group. Each year others, almost without excep­approximately 150-175 seniors tion, would say quite the same. do the same, meeting six times 
Although most often the throughout the school year in basic values we uphold, the at­groups of 10 or 15 at faculty titudes we carry, and in gen­homes for a home-cooked meal eral the way we perceive the and good conversation. world, academics, religion and The reason I write this letter other people are largely a is not to recall good memories, result of our upbringing and but merely to plant a seed in earlier life experiences, the minds of this year's junior college years offer us a unique class, who will very soon find opportunity to more fully ex­themselves in the midst of their amine and understand those senior year and, I am sure, things which are most central hoping to make the most of it. to our lives. If my own experi­Juniors, when next fall rolls 
ence is a common one, explor­around, take advantage of this ing such issues can be both opportunity to spend some frustrating as well as exciting, quality time with some quality and can lead often only to fur­people--sign up for a Senior ther questions and doubts Reflection Group. rather than convincing Mark Laboe answers. In this sense, I have Sorin Hall found it helpful and enjoyable April 26, 1989 

r-----..------­
Accent
Wednesday, May 3, 1989 page 11 
-~-------------------~---~----­
1 
I 
I 
I I 
I 
I I
Reflections on life without Lucy I I I 
~ 
I I I 
I I I 
I 
l I 
l 
l 
JOE BUCOLO 
accent writer 

I
t's been a week now since we lost our favorite red­head. Nothing has really changed in our lives, but something is definitely mis­sing. Lucille Ball was part of America, and now she's gone. We've lost more than a com­edienne; we've lost a legend. 
Lucy didn't have a medical degree, but her prescription to cure us of our problems was as effective as any doc­tor's. She could bring emo­tions out of people that no one could. She defined laughter and established the situation comedy. Her contributions to society may not have been as groundbreaking as a cure for polio or a vaccine for smal­lpox, but they were just as effective and irreplaceable. 
Born August 6, 1911, Lucy 
had anything but an easy life. 
Her in-laws, who raised her, 
often mistreated her. At the 
age of 17, Lucy developed 
rheumatic fever and became 
paralyzed from the waist 
down. She spent the next two 
years learning to walk again. 
This is only one example of 
the determination that would 
be the key to Lucy's success. 
After a series of movies, 

JOHN LANE 
accent writer 

D 
epeche Mode has just released a new, live al­burn entitled 101. Recorded in June of 1988, it is surprisingly good. Being a synthesizer­dominated band, one might think that Depeche Mode would not sound very good live, but this isn't the case with 101. 
Despite some rather dreary lyrics, the band is highly charged and emotional on 101. Vocalist David Gahan screams out and pleads for the crowd to join him in sing­ing the chorus on a number of songs. The music, which is 
JOHN LANE 
accent writer 

n late 1988 an intriguing album was released, called Awake: Various Inter­of Music From Disney Films. It is a 
Courtesy of Viacom Enterprises 
Lucy starred in "I ~ove Lucy" with her real life hus­band Desi Arnaz. The show was a ratings wonder and may never be surpassed as television's greatest comedy series. The show lasted six years (1951-57) and helped to establish Lucy's later series 
"The Lucy Show" (1962-68) and "Here's Lucy" (1968-74). 
All three shows ranked in the Nielsen top ten regularly, indicating Lucy's tremendous popularity. 
Depeche Mode-live 
remarkably clear, comple­ments the vocals. The keyboards are vibrant and the drums, powerful. All of this makes for an excellent live album. 
There are twenty songs on 101,the majority coming from the recent albums Music For the Masses and Some Great Reward. "Stripped" and "Never Let Me Down Again" are particularly powerful tracks. Depeche Mode also performs the older classics "Just Can't Get Enough" and "Everything Counts." 
The one drawback of 101 is that no new songs are intro­duced. Many bands, such as 

Through Lucy, it was possi­ble to go home again, and again, and again--to her home, a funny, warm place where our problems didn't seem quite so bad. Her zany antics and wide smile touched us in a way only Lucy could. She had the talent and genius to bring humor out of any situation and help us all to truly enjoy life. 
Perhaps the loss has such a heartwrenching impact be­

U2, put previously unreleased songs on their live albums, if for no other reason than to increase consumer interest. Depeche Mode could and should have done this on 101. 
Nevertheless, it is a terrific aliJum and a pleasant surprise. 
A Disney Ensemble 
wonderful collection of old Disney songs performed by today's musicians. 
Arguing that music was the key ingredient to Disney's success in the film industry, producer Hal Willner thought it would be "fun" to assemble various artists and reproduce classic Disney tunes. The list of performers includes Mi­chael Stipe (of R.E.M.), Natalie Merchant (lead singer of 10,000 Maniacs), The Replacements, Sinead O'Conner, Was (Not Was), Ringo Starr, and many others. 
These artists apply their respective skills to songs from such Disney classics as "Pinocchio" and "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs." Many of the best renditions are sung by the females, in particular, Mer­chant's "Little April Shower" and Bonnie Raitt's "Baby Mine." James Taylor's "Second Star to the Right" and Garth Hudson's "Feed the Birds," which features outstanding keyboards, are also excellent tracks. 

The overall product is just what Willner had hoped for: a fun and very enjoyable al­bum. Walt Disney himself would be pleased. 
cause, with Lucy's death, we lost part of the family. To millions worldwide, Lucy was a family member. Like a mother or sister or aunt, she could speak to us in a caring, funny way that made our problems seem insignificant. Moreover, in this day and age of hiding one's self from the world, Lucy was one person we allowed to get close enough to touch us in a pre­cious way. 
Lucy received a great num­ber of awards and honors in her lifetime. In fact, one of the most moving images of Lucy came during a recent awards presentation. Lucy's daughter, Lucie Arnaz, sang "I Love Lucy" to her mother as the camera focused on the comedienne's expressive face and red curls. With tears run­ning down from her eyes, Lucy mouthed the word "wow," perhaps in much the same way we mouthed it when we heard the news of her passing on. Now that she's gone, we can't help but wonder if the awards really expressed the love and ap­preciation we felt for her. 
In spite of this sentimen­tality, there is a comfort in the fact that Lucy will live on through reruns, her own crea­tion. Prior to "I Love Lucy," shows were televised live. 
Lucy and Desi decided to film their shows so they could be preserved and rerun. Because of this stroke of genius, generations to come will be 
able to celebrate in the legend that is Lucy. 
This year's Academy Awards, during which she appeared with Bob Hope, was Lucy's final public appear­ance. Hope joked that "I Love Lucy" lives in reruns worldwide, probably even in heaven. Showing that she was still as quick and witty as ever, Lucy replied, "If it is, they aren't paying for it." Heaven needn't worry; now it has the real thing. 
In a recent special, Dan Rather expressed a feeling we all share: because we knew "I Love Lucy" would live forever, we thought Lucy would, too. It is reassuring to know that Lucy died in the midst of thousands of "Get Well" cards and gifts. She died knowing just how beloved she was to us all. From now on, when we see 
the Vitameatavegimen girl, the grape stomping scene, or Lucy and Ethel in the choco­late factory, our tears of laughter may be mixed with tears of sadness, and rightly so. Lucy was a piece of us all, and it is not easy to see some­one like that go. Good night, sweet Lucy, and we love you. 
Ure's 'Answers to Nothing,' a welcome change 
COLLEEN CRONIN 
assistant accent editor 
A
nswers to Nothing, the second release by Midge Ure (formerly of Ultra vox), is definitely worth a listen. It is by no means a loud rocking album, but is also far from boring. Ure's distinctive voice makes every song a pleasure. 
The lyric content of Answers to Nothing is a wel­come change from the pres­ent Top 40 rambling. Ure ad­dresses such topics as the empty words and promises of the world's leaders, the mess that the world has made for itself, and relations with South American countries. Ure reflects on these subjects not with despise but with a sort of sad awareness. 
The first release from the album, "Dear God," is also one of its best songs. It sums up the feeling of the album as a whole as well, if not better, than the title. Ure asks if "there is anyone out there" to hear his prayer for a "worldwide religion," and "peace in a restless world." It is a conscious-stirring song. "Sister and Brother" is spiced up by the incredible voice of Kate Bush. For those who don't know her by name, she sang the duet "Don't Give Up" with Peter Gabriel. 
The music on Answers to 
Nothing is nothing spectacu­lar or out of the ordinary, but it does enhance Ure's voice and lyrics, which dominate the album. 
Answers to Nothing is a refreshing album. Those who are expecting the sort of meaningless drivel that prompts questions about how the singer managed to receive a recording contract 


The Observer Wednesday, May 3, 1989
page 12 

have to look at, but it never got staying." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. al Ihe Notre Dame off1ce, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 until3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's off1ce. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next· day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must
Classifieds be prepaid. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
HELP!I! I need graduation tickets and How's my Sweetie? have extra $$$. Want to trade? Call MALE GRADUATES For Sale: 1980 Mazda GLC, 99K THANK vou ST. JUDE 
FURNISHED ROOMS, AIR, KITCHEN, new tires-MUST SELL. $500 or 
x3613 and leave a message. SLV, GOOD LUCK ON FINALS. YOU'LL 
NOTICES 

FRIDGE. 5 MINS. N. CAMPUS. 272-bast offer. Call Lou 289-4315 HOGS 
0615. TYPING AVAILABLE HOGS--Ihe PW Phenomena!I
PLANE TICKET TO PHILADELPHIA BE THE BEST AT WHAT YOU SET OUT 
MAY 12 $75. 239-6208 (DAYS) 287· TO BE.
287-4082 2 FISHER 3Way speakers good condi­
sublelf'lhonsmoke.SrendenwO<XYI rm 1243 (NIGHTS). I LOVE YOU. YOUR BEST FRIEND,
M'o:roficvcLe····Fafi....s;\i:E'....fi~;;;i~
tion Pete X4016of 2 bdroomotheap-2875329 after Bpm NightHawk 450cc Awesome cruiser! As­M.B. 
king Under $400 call 287-5264 ask forNEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for FOR SALE: VOLVO STATIONWAGON, I need 5 graduation tix-call Tom 3155
SUMMER APARTMENT IN TURTLE 

BEC P. WINS BEST ROOMMATE. CREEK. ONE ROOMMATE OR TWOCASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash '79 265GL, 4-SPD WOD,LEATHER IN­Brian 
or 3157 

THANKS FOR BEING THERE FOR ME.
or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK T.,NEW EXHAUST & TIRES,RALLY
SUBLETIERS NEEDED. CALL 284­

BOB Howard St. just off of N.D. PKG.,EXTRAS BOK MILES .... MICHAEL ATIN SRSI Need 3 grad tix for my
4387 STACY OR JAN ENE AFTER 8 PM. 

WHAT'UP OOGS?
Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 288-4300 grandparents coming from SEATILE! 
YOU KNOTI GIRLS ARE AWESOME ... 
233-2342 Will pay $$$-Call Michelle X3820
SUB-LEASING TURTLE CREEK 

NOT!IIIII 
STUDIO APT McGANG & HOLLY & JEN,
LOT FOR SALE: Yogi Bear-Plymouth, GOOD LUCK ON FINALS I FOR SUMMER PRICE NEGOTIABLE GOOD SUMMERSWordprocesstng-Typlng 
I NEED GRAD TIX! GRANDPARENTS 272-8827 
IN. See all Notre Dame Games, Camping -DEB'S MATI
COMIN FROM PUERTO RICO, 1·3
CALL 272·0389 PARTY NEXT YEAR. 
at its best! Join Coast to Coast. 219-522· NEEDED!!!II!! CALL FRED 272-4474 LOVE YOU. MELIS
3821 DEBRA-I'LL MISS YOUIII 
YOU'RE THE BEST! computer. Call Sua's Secretarial Ser· RESUMES, reports, etc. typed on a LOVE, MATI SCOTII. 
vtce anytime at 299-0063. 2 BEDROOM HOUSE:on ND Ave also BLUE CARPET-GOOD COND.· $30 
PERSONALS 
BEST TO YOU AND SEAN. FURNISHED ROOMS near ND:$120 mo STURDY LOFT-GOOD COND.· $20 
GONNA MISS YOU.

LAST FREE FUN FLICK OF THE YEAR MOHOLY CROSS PRIESTS & BROTHERS 272-6306 CALL X4188 TONIGHT!!
VOCATION COUNSELING for the ONE· Come get rocked with AFTER HOURS 
YEAR CANDIDATE PROGRAM and 2 HOUSES FOR RENT 89-90 SCHOOL BIG DISCOUNTS ON IBM PRODUCTS at Murphy's Weds. and Thurs! 
NANCY other ministry opportunities. Contact: FR. YEAR. SAFE NEIGHBORHOODS. FOR NO Computer Store 239-7477 
NO MATIER HOW BAD THINGS GET JOHN CONLEY, CSC BOX 541 NOTRE MORE INFO, CALL CHUCK GLORE 
WHEN WE ARE APART. REMEMBER DAME 239-6385 232-tn6. M.& M.. 
THAT I ONLY WANT YOU IN MY LIFE. 
LOFT, CARPET, SOFA FOR SALE. 
Will you come to my house this TOM 3 seconds away and you'd better notANYONE LIVING IN NYC AREA
TYPING-1st drafts provided. 233-DOUG 2243 summer? Sorry,l don't have Breyer's all have a headache!!!!!!!!
NEED THINGS SHIPPED HOME?

1485. 2 blks. from campus. natural vanilla-but I do have chocolate 
CALL JOHN AT 271-8704 OR 

FOR SALE: small fridge, bookcase, lg. icecream,and if that doesn't work I can 
283-1789 (AFTER 10:00PM) 

ST. LOUIS CLUB BAGGAGE TRUCK dresser x3138 eves. always dream up some other ways to JUNIORS hlag Drop Off: Friday May 14 tantalize you. JUNIORS Notre Dame: Stepan Courts FOR SALE: DELUXE LOFT FOR MORE P.S.: Thank's for an incredible HAND IN COMPLETED PROFILE 
SUMMER JOBS 9:00a.m.-1 :OOp.m. INFO X1532 (R08o13RIAN) second semester. You truly are FORM TO CAREER a. PLACEMENT 
ALL LANDWATER SPORTS 
St. Mary's: Front of LeMans HOPING TO ADOPT ........................... THE BEST! SERVICES OFACE BEFORE LEAVING 
PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS 4:00p.m.-6:00p.m. We're a happily married, financially Panasonic Mtn Bike. Like New! Call Tom. CAMPUS THIS SPRING. 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS Any Questions Call Jim 283-30n secure couple with a beautiful home 277-0725 NEAR LAKE PLACID and lots of love to share with a much­SKYDIVING LAST CHANCE TO TRY CALL 1-800-343-8373.
JUNIORS 
HOUSESITIERS AVAILABLE FOR 89· wanted baby. If you are pregnant and LIVING AT TURTLE CREEK NEXT YR? CALL DEAN 287-3024 JUNIORS 90 Adult, responsible, experienced. Fac­considering adoption, please call us. 1YR.OLD BED,$100; 3-DRAWER HAND IN COMPLETED PROFILE ulty references. Mark or Kristin 287-9616 Expenses paid. Confidential, legal. SET,$35 CALL JULIE# 272·2370 Heh NORRIS! Heh lckle FORM TO CAREER & PLACEMENT EYE CONTACT BRAND NAME
NIKIE we Please call Deborah and David collect heard you're one red hot baba! That's­LENSES START AT 19.95 EA. 1-800.
SERVICES OFFICE BEFORE LEAVING day or night at 312-935-4088. WATERBED FOR SALE. ..queen size in· CAMPUS THIS SPRING.
ltchln' manl Sorr I missed your 255-2020. cludes heater, backboard, and live year 
birthday but I would not have gotten warranty ... & mths old $120 call277·4416 JUNIORS
you anything anyway I'll miss you next ATIENTION: 
' LOST/FOUND I 

JUNIORS
year and hope fully you won't causa LOST ON NORTH QUAD:AN AEROBIE. '76 GRAND PRIX-AIR, CRUISE, PS, HAND IN COMPLETED PROFILE PETE'S DRAGON
LIVE OFF CAMPUS 2 bedroom fur­too much trouble In California.

nished home for 19B!Ml Safe & con­

IT GOT STUCK IN THE TREE AND PB, EXCELLENT RUNNING COND. FORM TO CAREER a. PLACEMENT PETE'S DRAGON 
venient area. Next to other NO rentals.

OVERNIGHT THE WIND BLEW IT VERY RELIABLE. TRY IT OUT!! X3201 SERVICES OFFICE BEFORE LEAVING PETE'S DRAGON DOWN. IF YOU FOUN IT, PLEASE $650 CAMPUS THIS SPRING. DON'T MISS ITI! STARTS AT 8:00
Private parking, large yard, basket ball CHRIS "HAPPY" JENKS Is a raging court. Call Bruce: 288·5653 or 234-3831 
sax manlacl Not only does he wear CALL TONY AT 1244. IT WA BOR­
bright red speados and bikini under­ROWED. CARPET 
LAST COMEDY ZONE OF THE YEAR!! MOVE OFF CAMPUS 4 bedroom fur· 
wear, but he seduces young, un­-ATIENTION­
PLUSH TEXTURED BROWN, LIKE THURSDAY NIGHT AT THEODORE'S nished home for 198!Ml Safe & con­
suspected babasln his car by asking: ANYONE WANTING TO TRANSPORT 
LOST: Wallet in Cushing Aud. on Mon NEWI FITS ANY SINGLE-560 IN ALL SERIOUSNESS
"I wonder what's back hera (In the cor­ITEMS HOME ON THEvenient area. Next to other NO rentals.
4124 j 1:OOam. PLEASE call 2702 if you STEREO IN ALL SERIOSNESS 
ner of this dark parking lot)?" Women NORTHWEST BAGGAGE TRUCKPrivate parking, large yard, basket ball
have rt-1 need my ID's and key! PANASONIC A COMEDY TROUPE THAT YOU
of NO bawaral DROP BY RM 358 ALUMNI TO GET CAS&RECEIVEMURNTABLE INcourt. Call Bruce 288-5653 or 234-3831 
DON'T WANT Found: 7 in. gold bracelet found ouside ONE-SPEAKERS INCL.-$75 "It's been a long time" Bar rett, 9.Rusty TO MISS!!
Heh LIZ SWEENEY! I hope you'reNeed rooms for grad. wkend? Three rms.
Zahm's front lawn at 11 :30 PM on 4126; X3201 "Crusty-Dusty" Setzer 10.Ken "I shop in SHOW STARTS AT 9:00
feeling batter honey. Good luck on
available in house close to campus. Call

if it's yours, call x3363 the toddler sect-ion" Evans, 11.Martin "I Tom 277-6380. 
finals and don't forget to taka all your sit on the bench, but I'm on TV
drugs.

Purple and black pullover jacket lost in ···························································· NEED WEDDING SOLOIST? 288·9012 anyway"Scruggs K· Thanks for a great Friday night.You LaFortune computer area. Please help looked fantastic. Some sushi, a dance or
TURTLE CR. APT FOR SUBLEASE OVER Summer Mo. FURNISHED CALL 

Summer jobs-Camp Winnebago boys
out a bummed out dude & return rt to KEGERATOR FOR SALE SELL to BEST Hi Marilyn!! You're the greatest Roomie!! a song? Anytime. -Your Date MATI 3255 
camp In Maine looking for dynamicMarl< at x3678. OFFER lull size wt hoses,C02 call 287. PS-ALL men are not pigs.
caring counselor Instructors. Can you 
Hi Celestina! Hi Gina! 3024 NEED AN APT FOR SUMMER? I HAVE sailing, canoeing, camping skills, 
teach any of the following-tennis, 
swimming (ALS or WSI), soccer, baseball, basketball, waterskiing, Michael Patrick Gaffney 
ONE FURNISHED. CALL 2598. CHEAP! drama, radio, archery, or can you play 
plano or do office work. Age 19~. Top 6 Pickup lines used by Mark NEED HOUSE FOR FALL? FURN. 3 Transportation provided. &17-IYI7. McAndrew and Stewart Healy: 6)
I love you. "Mischl" 
BD., CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL 289· Call Phil Lilienthal 800-252-1705 or OH!...Those eyes!-Marl< 5) Please! I'mLOST ... Help a blind woman see aga1n I I can't tell you how wonderful my life
8539 write 1606 Washlng1on Plaza, Reston, tired of hanginglost my blue framed glasses in a blue VA 22090. has been these pest 6 months be­around the bathrooms on the 2ndcase Fri nite! Please call Tracy X3199 
cause of you. floor olthe 'Brare.-Stew Robin, You are 4) My parents hate me. My roommates
a babe! (especially in FOUND: brown leather jacket in sout shorts!) The One Who Adores You Where did the time go? 

hate me. Do you like me?-Mark
dining hall-to claim call x3528 with Carpet, Chest of Drawers, Fan Metal Book 
WANTED 

3) There's nothing sick about it-­description. Shelf,Shoe Rack Ratan Love Seat,Fridge Quinn: Have a good one! Love, Jules I'm going to miss you so much. 
We even do this wrth animals inSmall Table W'Drawers Must Sell-Call Wyoming-StewLOST AFTER THE MCATS IN 303 CUs­NEED RIDE TO SOUTH FLORIDA 1667 worm 5 party (whrp) fri at stanlord 2) My friends call me "pumpkin"HING, WESTBEND TIMER. PLEASE I hope all your dreams come true be­because I'm so cute. What do youCALL GUY AT 283-4586. Help. Help. Help. I need a ride to Fort ROYAL BLUE CARPET. FITS ANY 
RITA, HI AGAIN I GUESS WHO! See you causa you deserve ltl think?-MarkLauderdale after exam week. Call Will at GOOD SIZE ROOM IN LEMANS OR 
tonite?--Xerox-­
1) I have a "$". You have a $"$. We'reFOUND: AT BOOKSTORE ON FRIDAY, 283-2089 if you have space. HOLY CROSS. ONLY 2 YEARS OLD. A compatible.-Stew
ONE BASKETBALL JERSEY. CALL J.C. MUST SELL/ WE'RE SENIORS. PRICE SPECIAL THANKS TO MARY,
KEVIN O'CONNOR-Happy 22 8-Day!AT 1001 TO IDENTIFY NEGOTIABLE. CALL 284-5221. 
CAROUNE ELIZABETH, GRANDMA,And congrads on a GREAT LAX MICK, CARLA, JON, HOLLY, JACK,
SEASON!

RIDE TO FLORIDA TRACY &. EVERYONE WHO HELPED
FOR SALE: Water Bed, Small Fndge, Entertainment Center, TOM, 287-5758 
CELEBRATE MY B-DAYII LOST: black tux jacket from Senior For­Help. Help. Help. We need a ride home SCOTI "DROP THE JELLY" LOVE,$-J Two years ago the Board of Trustees mal. Call Jim at 271-9812 after exams on Friday or Saturday. Going BRUTOCAO claimed rt would divest, if the situation in 
Where was the jump to Classifieds yes­
to Fort Lauderdale, Orlando, or Daylona. South Africa worsened.
LOFT-$45 

terday? It's a good thing you won't be It has.GREY CARPET,LIKE NEW,B'xt0'·$60
LOST: Red CeBe Windbreaker at If you can help, please call Dave at 283· TO THE PERVERT, TEXAN, MEL, & 3
around next year to cut my columns. John 
Recess Fri. Night. Please call Mike at RALLY AGAINST APARTHEID
3284. OTHER GUYS WHO LIKE GIRLS:
STEREO CABINET-$10 4 DRAWER CHEST-$15 x1562. Morton and Andrew Gaze may never for­THURS. 12:15 at Fieldhouse Mall

THANKS FOR A GOOD TIME SATUR­
give you. Hope nothing happens to 
DAY NIGHT AT THE COUGHS' PARTY LOST: SR FORMAL 35MM NIKON, HAS FORMS 
Thursday's baseball story. 
IN STEPAN FIELD AND DANCING AT ALL MY PIX. PLEASE CALL MARY ROOMMATE WANTED FOR SUM· LIMITED SPACE AVAILABLE Wooooooooo! Amy Selover loves study
STONEHEDGEI WE HAD A BLAST!! 
ANNE 2595. MERSCHOOL ALREADY HAVE TURT. lounges. Woooooooo!
QUESTION: CALL 1222 RAY (SORRY THE SUB "STOLE" THE CREEK LEASE CALLX1169 FOR INFO 1132 JOHN SHOW!) LOVE, LARGE, FLOOZV, AND
HEY DUDES a. DUDETIES
LOST: BLACK a. GOLD WATCH AT CONGRADULATIONS COPELESS 
& OTHER GIRLS WHO LIKE GUYS. SMC AN TOSTAL PICNIC. A SEN­NO, HE IS NOT HOPELESS. GEOFFRY 
THE LAST ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER 
TIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD. CALL AGENTS NEEDEDI $350.00 PER DAY ATE 24 HARD BOILED EGGS IN 60 MIN. 
GO HOME! 284-4319. PROCESSING PHONE ORDERS! FIRST TIME AT SAINT MARY'S 
IS THIS FRIDAY, MAY 5. GET YOUR NEED A VEHICLE? GREAT VAN ANDGOODBYE CLASSIAEDS IN EARLY.
PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE ALAN SAVE a. THE MCNEILS TRUCK PRICES-ONE WAYS STILLDEADLINE FOR FRIDAY'S PAPER IS
NECESSARY. CALL (REFUNDABLE) 1· FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1989 3 PM THURSDAY. TRY TO GET IN AVAIL. CALL X1143 FOR INFO. 
315·733-6063 EXTENSION P-2382. HAGGAR TERRACE EARLIER THAN THAT.
FREE FOOD 
CHAMPIONS Is coming soon to the 5:30.7:30
FOR RENT 

NO Bookstore. Don't leave for home SPONSORED BY SMC CLASS OF '92. 
Need Ride to DC AREA !>22, Mary 374 Ruth, Good Luck in Guam. 
without Ill Sub-Leasing 2 Bdrm Apt lor Summer ALL ARE WELCOME. 
MB 
WANTED:10 SPEED BIKE.272·6306
At Turtle Creek 

HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS SUM­Call Paulof<en 272·3694 
MER (OR ANYTIME)? Jat there from Chicago, Detroit or Cleveland for no Thanks Marl<, Randy, and Liz You made mora than $180 with AIRHITCH (TM), the CPA easier CJH as reported In Consumer Reports, NY Moving to NYC? 
Times, Let's Go, and national network Lg 1 bdrm. apt. for rent Aug. 1. Good BLACIWIHITE RECLINER-$25 DIANA, morning shows. For debllls, call 212­midtown loc. ~>.{;, [)W & lg closets. Per­NO STRESS. GONNA MISS YOU. 884-2000 or wrlta: AIRHITCH(TM), fect for share. Call Betsy or Jackij!. (212) MEEM 2901 Broadway, Suite 100G, NY, NY 
X3201 

Will pay for grad. tickets, call Jon 272­
7496 10025.
582-4250. LARGE REFRIGERATOR JOHNx21.93 

Talented trio of swimmers choose NO 
Special to The Observer times of 56.0 in the 100-yard (52.5) at the YMCA Nation­
butterfly and 1:59.0 in the als in Orlando, Fla., last 
Swimmers Tanya Wil­200-yard race. She also has week. liams of Boca Roton, Fla. a personal-best time of "This is a milestone for and Ed Broderick of Newton 4: 19.0 in the 400-yard indi­us," said Irish coach Tim Square, Pa., have signed na­vidual medley. Welch. "Tanya raises our tional letters of intent to en­Broderick attends St. program to a national level, roll at Notre Dame. Joseph's Prep in Philadel­so we are instantly nation­
Tommy Whowell of Fon­phia and swims for the Sub­ally competitive. She openstana, Wis., also has enrolled urban Swim Club. With the doors for us to the fastest at the University and will times of 58.4 in the 100-yard collegiate meets in America. participate in the Irish swim breaststroke and 2:06.0 in program. the 200-yard breaststroke, "Ed will help us in the 
Williams, a senior at St. Broderick will help the Irish same way. He is the first Andrews Prep, currently attack. U.S. Senior National swims for the Mission Bay Whowell took second place qualifier to come to Notre 
Makos Club. She has posted in the 100-yard backstroke Dame. " 
Carlesimo picks Seton Hall job 
as far as people speculated it did." 
Associated Press Though he called the Ken­tucky job "a tremendous situa­SOUTH orange, N.J.--Seton tion," the 39-year-old coach 
Hall's P.J. carlesimo, saying said, "I've got a great situation there's no place like home, here." ended talks with Kentucky on Monday and will remain as Carlesimo ended a week of basketball coach of the school soul-searching when he an­he took within one point of the nounced his decision in a locker NCAA championship. room meeting with six players. 
"I really like it here. I've First word of the decision been treated well," Carlesimo came from John Paquette, said as he left campus. "Ken­Seton Hall's assistant athletic tucky is kind of a situation you director, who said: "he's 
--------------.1 
Sports Wednesday 
Wednesday, May 3, 1989 page 13 
~-­

Irish Baseball Scoreboard Sports Calendar Sports Lists 
BATTER GP AB R H 2B 3B HR RBI BA Results for Apr. 26-May 2 Home games in CAPS Erik Madsen, P 13 1 0 1 0 0 0 1 1.000 
Dan Peltier, OF 47 170 54 77 20 3 8 55 .453 Baseball (35-12) Wednesday James Sass, OF 47 150 31 59 4 4 3 51 .393 Notre Dame 11, Indiana 7 Softball vs. NORTH CENTRAL (2), 4 p.m. Jason Martinez. DH 27 49 11 18 4 0 1 10 . 367 Notre Dame 7, Chicago State 4 Pat Pesavento, SS 47 161 61 59 4 0 0 13 .366 Chicago State 5, Notre Dame 4 
ThursdayNotre Dame 3, Xavier 0 
Softball vs. VALPARAISO (2), 4 p.m . 
Jon Baker 5 3 0 1 0 0 0 0 . 333 Notre Dame 11, Xavier 6 Baseball at Northwestern
Ed Lund, C 43 138 29 46 6 0 4 33 .333 Notre Dame 8, Xavier 5 Frank Jacobs, DH 36 108 20 33 6 2 2 25 .306 Xavier 6, Notre Dame 2 
Friday

Joe Binkiewicz, 1 B 34 93 16 28 9 0 1 27 .299 
SMC softball at NAIA District 21 TourneyPat Eilers, OF 40 61 14 18 4 0 0 11 .295 Lacrosse (7-6) 
Ohio State 7, Notre Dame 5 Cory Mee, 2B 31 61 15 18 1 0 0 4 .295 Michigan State 9, Notre Dame 7 Saturday Mike Rotkis, DH 25 33 4 9 1 0 1 3 .273 Baseball at Detroit (2) Mike Coss, 3B 43 117 23 31 4 1 0 13 .265 Softball (29·20) Track at National Invitational in Indianapolis Craig Counsell, OF 41 106 27 28 3 0 0 19 .264 Notre Dame 6, Grace 0 SMC softball at Districts Mike Moshier, 2B 41 103 16 27 2 0 18 .262 Notre Dame 4, Grace 2 (8 inn.) 
Notre Dame 5, Southwestern Michigan 0 Sunday Paul Lange, DH 13 14 5 3 0 0 0 3 .214 Notre Dame 10, Marquette 0 Baseball at Detroit (2)Tom Allen. OF 23 27 7 5 0 0 0 2 .185 Notre Dame 11, Marquette 8 Matt Krall, DH 14 15 2 2 1 0 0 3 .133 Notre Dame 11, Saint Mary's 0 

Monday

Brian Piotrowicz, P 15 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 Notre Dame 13, Saint Mary's 0 No sports scheduled . 
Brian Conway, P 9 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 . 000 Men's golf 
Tuesday

Tom Murray 10 2 2 0 0 0 0 1 .000 Notre Dame placed 14th out of a 15-team Mike Rooney 9 3 5 0 0 0 0 0 . 000 No sports scheduled . 
field at the Midwestern Invitational with a 
May 1G-18

John Flanagan 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 score of 914 for the 54-hole tournament. Women's tennis at NCAA tournament NOTRE DAME 47 1431 343 467 69 11 20 295 .326 Men's track May 13 OPPONENTS 47 1386 204 382 77 9 12 178 .276 Ball State Invitational Baseball vs. DAYTON (2) Mike Drake placed first in the 5,000 meter Track at Wisconsin Invitational Left on base: Notre Dame 357, Opponents run with a time of 32:55.42. May 14 318 Jim Varga captured first place in the 110-Baseball vs. DAYTON (2) meter high hurdles in 14.76. May 17-20 PITCHER GP GS IP H BB ER W-L ERA
so Drake Relays Baseball hosts MCC tournament at Mike Coss 1 0 1.0 0 0 0 0 0·0 0.00 Ron Markezich earned third-place honors in 
College Baseball
Coveleski. 

David Legus 4 3 14.3 7 4 7 1 1-0 0.63 the 5,000 meter run with a time of 4:00.20. May 20-21 Joe Binkiewicz 7 0 11.0 13 8 4 2 2-1 1.64 
Track at IC4A championships Top 25 College Baseball TeamsBrian Piotrowicz 14 12 73.3 70 27 51 19 7-3 2.33 
May 31-June 3 The top 25 college baseball teams in the Tony Livorsi 20 2 41.0 43 10 25 14 3-0 3.07 Collegiate Baseba/1-ESPN poll, with first-place votes
Baseball 

Track at NCAA championships
Erik Madsen 14 12 74.7 85 23 52 31 8-3 3.74 in parentheses, this season's records, total points Mike Coffey 24 0 47.7 47 22 40 22 6-0 4.15 and previous week rankings. Notre Dame opponents National League 
are italicized.
Brian Conway 10 8 44.3 42 26 22 23 3-3 4.67 

East Volleyball Schedule 
Mike Passilla 10 8 38.7 45 13 15 22 4-2 5.12 

w l Pet. GB 1. Mississippi State 43-8 498 1
5 0 8.0 13 4 3 6 0-0 6.75

Tom Gulka New York 14 10 .583 Home games in CAPS 2. Texas A&M 48·4 3Dan Marzec 4 1 10.0 15 6 6 10 1-0 9.00 St. Louis 14 10 .583 495 
3. Arizona 37·14 493 2 Jim Passinault 0 1.0 2 0 1 0-0 9.00 Montreal 14 12 .538 1 September 4. Arizona State 40·14 492 4 Chicago 13 12 .520 1.5 5. Arkansas 43·8 488 5 
Philadelphia 13 
8-9: at Gonzaga Invitational in Spokane,
NOTRE DAME 47 47 365.0 382 144 225 151 35-12 3.72 11 .458 3 6. Louisiana State 43·10 479 6 
Pittsburgh 10 .400 Wash. (Montana, Gonzaga, Idaho, Portland, 
15 4.5

OPPONENTS 47 47 3362.3467 255 192 276 12-35 6.86 7. Wichita State 47·9 478 8 West Notre Dame) 8. Oklahoma State 38·12 4n 7 15-16: NOTRE DAME INVITATIONAL 9. Florida Slate 41-12 469 10
Saves: Notre Dame 9 (Coffey 7. Gulka. Cincinnati 10
14 

.583 (Pacific, Pittsburgh, Western Michigan, Notre 10. Texas 43-14 465 9 
Livorsi). Opponents 3 San Diego 15 13 .536 1 Miami
11. 35·13 460 11
Dame)

Los Angeles 13 .500
13 2 12. Long Beach 41-10 459 12
22·23: at Louisiana State University Tourna­
San Francisco 13 .500
13 2 13. Fresno State 34·16 456 13
ment in Baton Rouge, La. (Oklahoma, LSU,
Houston 12 14 .462 3 14. Loyola Marymount 35·19 451 16
NBA Playoffs Atlanta 10 17 .370 5.5 Houston, Notre Dame) 
15. Pepperdine 38-13 448 17 27: PURDUE 16. Michigan 34-10 443 19 Tuesday's Resulls 
17. Hawaii 33-19 442 20 FIRST ROUND Montreal 6, Cincinnati 4 
18. Brigham Young 440 Eastern Conference Western Conference Houston 12, Philadelphia 4 
October 38·12 23 
19. North Carolina 29·12 435 28 Philadelphia vs. New York Golden St. vs. Utah New York 7, Atlanta 1 4: at Ohio State 
20. Southern Cal 37·22 431 25 
New York wins series 3-0 Golden St. wins sertes 3-0 San Diego 7, St. Louis 1 6: NORTHERN ILLINOIS 21. Oklahoma 37-13 429 26 
Game 1· New York 102, Philadelphia 96 Game 1: Golden Slate 123, Utah 119 Los Angeles 7, Pittsburgh 0 7: EASTERN MICHIGAN 22. South Florida 423
38-13 22 Game 2: New York 107, Ph1iadelphia 106 Game 2: Golden State 99, Utah 91 San Francisco 4, Chicago 0 

13: ILLINOIS STATE 23. Georgia Tech 32-18 419 Game 3: New York 116, Philadelphia 115 (OT) Game 3: Golden State 120, Utah 106 Wednesday's Games 
14: TEXAS 24. Florida 35·18 408 14 
Houston at Montreal 
16: PENNSYLVANIA 25. SW Louisiana 49·11 407 27 
Milwaukee vs. Atlanta Portland vs. los Angeles Cincinnati at New York Milwaukee leads series 2-1 los Angeles leads series 2~ Philadelphia at Atlanta 
19-20: at Stanford Tournament (Stanford, Game 1· Atlanta 100, Milwaukee 92 Game 1· Los Angeles 128, Portland 108 St. Louis at Los Angeles UC-Santa Barbara, New Mexico, Notre Game 2: Milwaukee 108, Atlanta 98 Game 2: Los Angeles 113, Portland 105 Chicago at San Diego Dame) 
MCC Baseball
Game 3: Milwaukee 117, Atlanta 113 (OT) Wednesday: Los Angeles at Portland Pittsburgh at San Francisco 25: at Butler Thursday· Atlanta at Milwaukee x-Friday: Los Angeles at Portland 
27-28: at Northwestern Tournament in 
x-Sunday: Milwaukee at Atlanta x-Sunday: Portland at Los Angeles American league Midwest Collegiate Conference
Evanston, Ill. (Duke, Northwestern, Tulane,
East Through April 24
Notre Dame)
w l Pet. GB East Baltimore 13 12 .520 Conference
29: MINNESOTA Overall Chicago vs. Cleveland 
Houston vs. Seattle Series tied 1·1 Seattle leads series 2~ Boston 12 12 .500 .5 w l T Pet w l T 
4 30 10 0

Game 1 : Seattle 111 , Houston 1 07 New York 12 13 .480 1 Notre Dame 14 0Game 1: Chicago 95, Cleveland 88 Game 2: Seattle 109, Houston 97 Milwaukee 10 14 .417 2.5 Detroit 6 4 0 15 16 1 
Game 2: Cleveland 96, Chicago 88 November
Wednesday: Seattle al Houston Cleveland 9 13 .409 2.5 Xavier 6 8 0 13 28 0 x-Friday: Seattle at Houston Detroit 8 15 .348 4 1: at Illinois Dayton 4 8 0 11 19 0Wednesday: Cleveland at Chicago 
Friday: Cleveland at Chicago 

x-Sunday: Houston at Seattle Toronto 9 17 .346 4.5 3-4: GOLDEN DOME CLASSIC (Notre Westx-Sunday: Chicago at Cleveland 
West Dame, Iowa, Rhode Island, SW Texas State) Evansville 3 1 0 17 21 0 Butler 5 9 0 9 19 
0

Denver vs. Phoenix 5:KENTUCKY Detroit wins series 3-0 8: at Northwestern 
Boston vs. Detroit 

Phoenix wins series 3-0 Texas 17 5 .773 Saint Louis 2 6 0 11 22 0 
Game 1: Phoenix 104, Denver 103 Oakland t9 8 .704 .5
Game 1: Detroit 101, Boston 91 10: ILLINOIS-CHICAGO
Game 2: Phoenix 132, Denver 114 Kansas City 17 8 .680 1.5 Midwest LeagueGame 2: Detroit 102, Boston 95 
11 : TEXAS-ARLINGTON Game 3: Detroit 100, Boston 85 
Game 3: Phoenix 130, Denver 121 California 15 11 .5n 4 Minnesota 10 14 .417 8 17-18: at Western Michigan Invitational in 
x-if necessary Seattle 12 15 .444 7.5 Kalamazoo, Mich. (Notre Dame, Western 
Northern Division 

l Pet. GB South Bend 15 4 .789 
Chicago 10 16 .385 9 Michigan, Indiana, Texas A&M) w 
Rockford 12 10 .545 4.5
Tuesday's Resulls
NHL Pfayoffs 

Kenosha 11 10 .524 5Seattle 7, Detroit 2 
MCC Softball 
Wausau 9 8 .529 5 NHL CONFERENCE FINALS Campbell Conference Baltimore 4, California 3 Appleton 10 11 .476 6 Wales Confereuce Calgary vs. Chicago Oakland 8, Tor onto 5 Madison 9 12 .429 7 
Kansas City 5, New York 3 Midwestern Collegiate Confarence
Calgary leads series 1~

Montreal vs. Philadelphia Boston 4, Minnesota 2 Beloit 6 13 .316 9 Philadelphia leads series 1~ Chicago 6, Milwaukee 1
Game 1: Calgary 3, Chicago 0 w l Pet. Soutem Dlvlalon Detroit 29 18
Game 1: Philadelphia 3, Montreal 1 Thursday: Chicago at Calgary Cleveland at Texas (late) 11 .720 Peoria 7 .720 
Notre Dame
Wednesday: Philadelphia at Montreal Saturday: Calgary at Chicago Wednesday's Games 21 19 .525 Springfield 16 8 .687 1.5 Friday: Montreal at Philadelphia May 8: Calgary at Chicago Detroit at Seattle Butler 16 17 .485 Cedar Rapids 12 8 .600 3.5 Sunday: Montreal at Philadelphia x-May 10: Chicago at Calgary Kansas City at Cleveland Saint Louis 16 17 .485 Burlington 10 11 .476 6 x·May 9: Philadelphia at Montreal x-May 12: Calgary at Chicago California at Baltimore Dayton 14 21 .400 Clinton 8 15 .348 9 
x-May 14: Chicago at Calgary Evansville 12
X·May 11: Montreal at Philadelphia Oakland at Tor onto 31 .279 Waterloo 7 15 .318 9.5 
Loyola 2 .054 5 .238
x-May 13: Philadelphia at Montreal Milwaukee at Minnesota 35 Quad City -'16 11 x-if necessary 
NOTRE DAME 

'' ·· Offers basic training 
programs

ROWING CLUB 
June 28-July 2 Aug. 17-Aug. 20 
For information, please contact: 

THE CREW NEEDS VARSITY AND 
NOVICE COACHES FOR NEXT YEAR. IF INTERESTED CALL 
436 W. 2nd St.

BRIAN LAPPS AT283-1184 
,texington, KY 40508 




..,.__________ ________ 
Wednesday, May 3, 1989
page 14 The Observer 
ND baseball sneaks by Valpo 
Allen's grand slam, five RBI prove to be the difference 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
Tom Allen isn't known as a power hitter, but when Notre Dame (37-12) barely escaped with a 15-14 victory against Val­paraiso at Jake Kline Field on Tuesday, his grand slam and five RBI suddenly came in very handy. 
Four of those RBI came in the third inning, when the freshman Allen smashed a grand slam over the rightfield fence that brought Notre Dame within one run of the Crusaders at 12-11. 
Allen's slam was part of a wild seven-inning game that took over two hours to play the first three innings. A doubleheader was scheduled, but since the first seven-inning game took over 3 1-2 hours, there was not enough time for the second game. 
In the top of the sixth inning, the score was tied at 14 when hot-hitting Pat Pesavento sin­gled to left. After Allen flew out to center, Dan Peltier singled him to second. Joe Binkiewicz drew a walk, loading the bases, and Cory Mee brought Pesavento home for the win­ning run with an RBI walk. 
All this happened when Notre Dame had been behind 12-4 in 

the third inning. It is the largest 
deficit the Irish have come 
from behind to win this season. 
"In a situation like this, when we're down on pitching, and we have to play so many fresh­men," said Head Coach Pat Murphy, "it's really neat that we can battle back and play like that." 
The Irish are certainly suf­fering from lack of depth in the pitching staff. Sophomore Dave Legus, pitching in his third game of the season, started the game, going two in­nings and allowing nine earned runs. 
Freshman Tom Gulka came on to relieve Legus, and pitched fairly well until he got into trou­ble in the sixth inning. Brian Piotrowicz went the remaining distance and picked up his eighth win. 
The Irish are also suffering from new injuries. Senior Mike Moshier suffered a sprained ankle on a force play in the first inning, and had to be taken out of the game. When he will return is uncertain. 
Catcher Ed Lund remains to be unavailable for duty be­cause of the injury he received on a play at the plate against Xavier on Sunday. 
"Injuries are what's con­cerning me most," said 
Murphy. "It's tough to tell 
about the progress of this team 
right now because of injuries 
and exams." 

One Irish hitter who is 
definitely making progress is 
shortstop Pat Pesavento, who 
had three more hits on Tuesday 
to raise his hitting streak to 12 
games. He also scored the win­
ning run, getting on base with 
an opposite-field base hit. 

"I've been seeing the ball 
really well and I've been taking 
pitches," said Pesavento. "As a leadoff batter, I get to see a lot of pitches, and I can't just jump on the first one all the time. When I wait for my pitch and hit it to the opposite field, I'm on." 
Pesavento is most certainly "on," as he hit two singles to the opposite field Tuesday and has 15 hits in his last 21 at-bats. 
In the first inning, with Val­paraiso leading 2-1 and Dan Peltier on first base, freshman Joe Binkiewicz blasted a 0-2 pitch with two outs over the rightfield fence, making the score 3-2 in favor of the Irish. 
Junior Tim Manning of Val­paraiso countered Binkiewicz with a two-run homer of his own in the top of the second, giving Valparaiso a 6-3 lead. After the Crusaders had batted in the third, Valparaiso was 

The Observer 1 E.G. Bailey 
The Notre Dame baseball team narrowly beat Valparaiso at Jake Kline field Tuesday, 15-14, behind the power hitting of freshman Tom Allen who hit a grand slam and recorded five RBI. ' 
winninp it 12-4. . tier promptly crushed a 
That s when the ~•reworks homerun to straightaway cen­were set off for the Insh. Jason terfield his ninth homer of the Martinez singled home Cory season,'to tie the score at 12. Mee to make the score 12-6, and In that third inning 12 bat­~ at ~esavento hit a ~loop ters came to the plat~ for the smgle mto center to make It 12-Irish. Eight batters in a row 
7. After Allen provided the reached base successfully and slam to make it 12-11, Dan Pel-scored. 
Awards 
continued from page 20 
can't help thinking about tacos and Garanimals. 
But tacky uniforms are bet­ter than no uniforms at all-­which brings us to the Houston basketball team. Wearing Notre Dame gold for one half and Houston red for the other separated the Cougars from a pack of deserving candidates. 


Next time you go on a road trip, Cougars, make sure the uniforms are on the same plane as your players. You're lucky it happened at Notre Dame. Just imagine the results if this had occurred at Valparaiso. 
Quote of the Year: Lou Holtz made some memorable ones ("Rice scares me to death"), but you can't win unless you're 
CHEERS 
from 

THE SEAN DILLON FAN CLUB 
Dad Mom Pam Ron Pat Jan 
a Notre Dame opponent. And I think we have a runaway win­ner from Miami cornerback Donald Ellis. "People say 'Notre Dame,' and it's like that's supposed to mean some­thing. I don't see Notre Dame as greater than Toledo or Wis­consin or anybody else. I don't see them as being any different from Central Florida." 
'Nuff said. 

WANTED: 

STUDENT BODY PHOTOGRAPHER 
To take pictures for Student Government during the 1989-90 school year. We'll pay your expenses. 
Experience is preferrable. Interested parties please call Mark Flaharty @ 3339 or 239-7668. 
SUB'S REFRIGERATOR RETURN/SALE 
DATE: Friday, May 5th TIME: 2:30 PM-5:30 PM PLACE: Stephan Center NEED TO BRING: Refrigerator that 
is dean and defrosted to receive initial deposit OR money to buy your refrigerator; $25 for small and $40 for large. (We keep your deposit). 
SEE YOU THERE! 

Cfass of1990 Senior [[ass rJrip Cancun, Me~co 
will include: sportation to hicago's O'Hare Air­port and non-stop, round trip air service to Cancun. 
* 
8 day&'? nights accomodations at the Oasis Cancun. 

* 
All taxes, gratuities, and departure tax. 

The Oasis Cancun offers: 

* 
A prime location on 30 acres of Caribbean beach. 

* 
1/4 mile network of swimming pools (with swim-up bars). 

* 
many other benefits 


Sign-ups with $150 deposit payable to Univ. of N. D are in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune, until May 12. 
Hurry and reserve your spot NOW! Any questions? Call John MacQuarrie or Michele Feick. 

Wednesday, May 3, 1989 The Observer page 15 
Burks' homer lifts Red Sox over struggling Twins 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS Ellis Burks hit a three-run homer in a four-run eighth inning to lead the Boston Red Sox to a 4-2 vic­tory Tuesday night over Min­nesota, handing the Twins their ninth loss in 10 games. 
Burks' homer off reliever Jeff Reardon negated a strong performance by Minnesota starter Fred Toliver, who carried a no-hitter for 5 2-3 in­nings. 
Rich Gedman began the decisive rally by singling to left against Toliver and gave way to pinch runner Marty Barrett. Sam Horn, pinch hitting for Jody Reed drew a walk against reliever German Gonzalez, 2-1. 
Wade Boggs singled to score Barrett. Reardon relieved Gon­zalez and retired Ed Romero on a grounder to first. Burks followed with his fifth homer. 
Orioles 4, Angels 3 
BALTIMORE--Jim Traber's sacrifice fly in the ninth inning gave the Baltimore Orioles a 4-3 victory over California 
HappyBirthday 
T. G. G. 
Love, Your Family 



I l .. -.... .: ! 
•· ~i -~_ J · <· ,
1 ._.,... 
__-_ . ·-·--~--, r=;.__ . ... ~~:~:~­
FREE T -SHIRT while supplies last 
Tuesday night, snapping the Angels' five-game winning streak. 
Brady Anderson led off the ninth with a double off reliever Willie Fraser, 0-2. Mter Phil Bradley sacrificed Anderson to third, Joe Orsulak and Cal Rip­ken were intentionally walked to load the bases. Traber batted for Randy Milligan, and after fouling off several pitches, lifted a fly ball to the edge of the warning track in right field. 
Expos 6, Reds 4 
MONTREAL --Otis Nixon's two-out RBI single broke a 3-3 tie and sent the Montreal Expos to a 6-4 victory over the Cincin­nati Reds Tuesday night. 
Spike Owen doubled just in­side the first base bag off reliever Kent Tekulve, 0-1, to start the decisive rally. Nixon then singled to right and came all the way home on Tim Raines' single. 
Raines went to second on the throw home and came in on Tom Foley's single, making it 6-3. 

White Sox 6, Brewers 1 
CHICAGO --Ron Kittle and Ivan Calderon hit two-run homers as Chicago ended Chris Bosio's four-game winning streak by beating Milwaukee 6­1 Tuesday night, handing the Brewers their fifth straight loss. 
Bosio, 4-1, gave up 12 hits in 7 1-3 innings. He remained win­less lifetime against Chicago, falling to 0-5. 
Royals 5, Yankees 3 
NEW YORK --Luis de los Santos hit a two-run, go-ahead single in the seventh inning and Mark Gubicza pitched a six-
hitter Tuesday night, leading Kansas City past New York 5-3 for the Royals' fourth straight victory. 
Rice 
continued from page 20 
every game. I roll down my socks and put gum in them. And I hate ducks. I am always running away from them." 
But really, why did The Ob­server select Rice as Notre Dame's most outstanding male athlete? The most obvious rea­son is that he was the leader of the 1988 National Champion­ship team, yet there is more behind the selection. The Woodruff, S.C. native was 46 percent of Notre Dame's entire offense, throwing for 1176 yards and running for an even 700 yards. Even more impres-
Time to celebrate! 
-· Congratulation~~ You mad!' it to gradual ion and now i(s tinw to prepare : •.. l:or tlw futun~. The IBM Personal System/2' ~.lodel30 286 helps you progr_-t·ss 1_ . ~ !rom l!'rm papers and lab n•po;t~ ~o prr>~entat.rons and spr:t·.adshects. wrth przzazz. 
l.li rtrtLJ · ~; The I S/2 ~!odd 30 286 has cxcrtmg, spccrally selected l'.(.i:;,r~ ~ j I· software that is easy to u;:t•, loaded and ready to go.. So 
take advantage of this incrcdihiP offer and sto1> in and s1~e us today. Hurrv!. OffcrcxpircsJunc30,1989. 
Notre Dame Computer Store 
Office of u·niversity Computing Computing Center Room 25 ---­
§ :: ;-.;;

239-7477 ==-=":'= 
Buy now and tell us send it to my hometown IBM dealer 
"This offer is limited to qualified students. faculty and stall who order an IBM PS/2 Modei8530-E21 on or before June 30. 1989. M1crosott Word is the Academic Edition. Prices quoted do not tnclude sales tax. handling and/or processing charges. Check with your institution regarding these charges. Orders are subject to availability. IBM may withdraw the promotional any 11me without writlen notice. 
IBM Personal Systemf2 and PS-1 are reg•stered trademarks ollnterna!lonal Bus•ness Mach•nes Corptlfahon Mterosoll ts a regtstereo trademark ol MICrosott CorpOrahon hOC W~t"ldOII\'5 E•press •s a lrademaril of the hOC 


Cal Ripken (8) and the Baltimore Orioles snapped the California Angel's five-game winning streak Tuesday with a 4-3 win on Jim Traber's sacrifice fly in the ninth inning. 
sive is the fact that Rice bounced back from a very shaky 5-21 passing perfor­mance in his first two games to complete .507 of his passes. 
Moreover, throughout the season Rice was forced to go head-to-head with such col­legiate stars as Steve Walsh, Rodney Peete and Major Har­ris. And how could this scatter­arm, option-rooted quarter­back make sure his team had more points on the scoreboard at the end of the game? Whatever the reason, he did. Didn't all the comparisons bot­her him? 
"No, I knew I didn't have to compete with them, our defense did," said Rice. "Each week another name came up but our defense said that I was going to be the star of the game." 
And what a star they made of him? The gum-loving Rice came up for the Irish when they needed him the most. In the 
first "game of the century" of the season against the Miami Hurricanes, Rice completed eight of 16 passes for 195 yards including a nine yard touch pass to Braxston Banks waiting in the end zone. In the first bat­

~crus 

This is it Folks! 
Come Cross the Border... WED. 
Thirsty -one donar­
THURS:CLUB CUPS 
* Closed SATURDAY For Finals 
tle of the unbeaten with the Trojans of USC, Rice threw for 91 yards on five of nine at­tempts and tore up the Coliseum grass for 86 on 13 carries. 
But Rice saved his best day for last against a hillbilly squad from John Denver's favorite state. Against West Virginia, connected on seven of 11 at­tempts for a career-best 213 yards, including two touch­down throws. 
Looking back over Notre Dame's seasons, the team's highlights seem to be Tony Rice's highlights. Who can for­get Rice's 55-yard throw from the depths of USC' end zone to the "Rocket"? And the 65-yard run around USC's No.7, Mark Carrier, in the second quarter will be forever etched in the min9s of Notre Dame faithful. And, one can't forget the vintage Rice 31-yard scramble on the first play of the Fiesta Bowl. 
So, there it is. The 1988 Moose Krause award recipient has been revealed and about the only thing that it will surrender its mantlepice position is the 1989 Heisman Trophy, maybe. 
page 16 The Observer Wednesday, May 3, 1989 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Macinnis, Flames shutout Blackhawks, 3-0 in Calgary
The NO golf team held its annual banquet Monday night. Pat Mohan was named to the Golf Coaches Association of America's All-Academic squad. He was also named team MVP and scholar athlete. On the women's team, Carolyn Burke was named scholar athlete, while Roberta Bryer won team MVP honors. Paul Nolta won most improved honors for the men's squad and will captain next year's team. -The Observer 
By MARY GARINO 
Sports Writer 
The Blue Demons of DePaul put an end to the softball team's seven-game winning streak by taking a doubleheader from the Irish. 
Notre Dame slipped to 29-22 with the losses and only four games left to play in their first varsity season. DePaul has ac­counted for three of those losses, outscoring the Irish 20­3. 
DePaul pummelled Irish pitcher Missy Linn for 12 hits in game one en route to a 7-0 victory. Only three of the runs were earned as the defense committed two costly errors in the second inning and the Demons put four runs on the scoreboard. Linn's record against the Demons dropped to 0-2. Earlier in the season, she was injured and suffered a 9-1 beating at the hands of DePaul. 
The Irish offense was not operating in full gear and the players could only muster four hits in the first game. DePaul pitcher Sharon Coleman effec­tivley shut down the Irish. The Demons were sloppy on defense, making four errors, but Notre Dame was unable to capitalize and never scored. 
"We were disappointed with the first game," said Head Co­ach Brian Boulac. "Their pitcher gave us a lot of trouble, but the important thing is that we never gave up." 
"Defensively, we made some errors in the second inning that really cost us," he continued. 
"The second inning was a nightmare." 
The second game did not start out with much promise for the Irish. With senior Barb 

Bookstore referees may pick up their checks next Wednesday or Thursday in the treasurer's office of student government. ­The Observer 
The Notre Dame Club of White Hall, Pennsylvania, is holding its annual picnic June 3. Fifteen members of the Irish national champions from that area have been invited to attend. -The Observer 


Mooney pitching, DePaul rapped out three hits for two runs. Mooney settled down and retired the next seven batters she faced until the fourth in­ning, when DePaul added two more runs to take a 4-0 lead. 
Notre Dame had a big oppor­tunity to score in the sixth in­ning but with the bases loaded and no outs, Laurie Sommerlad hit into a double play and Rac­hel Crossen grounded out for the three outs. The Irish saw light again in the bottom of the seventh, once again loading the bases. With two out, pinch hit­ter Tammy Goodwin knocked a single into left field, driving in a run. But Goodwin was tagged out in a run down be­tween first and second while a run scored for a 4-2 final. 
Mooney pitched a respec­table game, with four earned runs on six hits. The Irish of­fense managed six hits overall, with freshman Ruth Kmak hit­ting 2 for 3. Kmak was 3 for 7 on the day. 
Boulac was happy with the way his team played against DePaul (38-18), one of the best teams in the midwest. 
"We stayed in contention in both games," Boulac stated. "We played a good softball team. This is the type of team that we have to play and beat, and we'll get stronger and bet­ter. " 
Notre Dame will not get a break in their schedule until the end of the season on Thursday. The Irish continue at home today against North Central College at 4:00. NCC, another Chicago based team, has the potential to give the Irish some trouble. 
"Fundamentally, it's a sound team," Boulac said. "They have an outstanding pitcher who has carried them through the season. It will be a good challenge." 
On Thursday, Notre Dame will face Valparaiso, who split a doubleheader with the Irish earlier this year. 
Associated Press 

CALGARY--AI Macinnis as­sisted on goals by Jamie Macoun and Joe Nieuwendyk and led a defense that held Chicago to nine shots in the first two periods as Calgary opened the NHL's Campbell Conference finals Tuesday night with a 3-0 victory over the Blackhawks. 
The game was every bit the mismatch that the teams' regular-season records sugges­ted it would be. 
Calgary, which poured 39 shots on Blackhawks goalies Alain Chevrier and Darren Pang, led the league with 117 points. Chicago's 66 points were the fewest of the 16 playoff teams and the fewest of any Stanley Cup semifinalist since Pittsburgh's 64 in 1970, when teams played four fewer than the current 80 games. 
The Blackhawks never tested Flames goalie Mike Ver­non, who made 19 saves in recording his third shutout of the playoffs. Vernon was aided by a defense that allowed 226 regular-season goals, second best in the league. 
Game 2 is Thursday night here. 
Seeking its second trip to the Stanley Cup championship se­ries, Calgary is 9-0-1 against Chicago since last losing to the Blackhawks on Feb. 23, 1986. The Flames have won seven straight against Chicago at the Saddledome dating back to March 22, 1985. 
The Flames, who beat Van­couver in the seventh game of their first-round series and then swept Los Angeles out of the Smythe Division finals, have won six straight games. 
Chicago, which didn't gain a postseason berth until the season's final game, had won eight of 11 games in upsetting Detroit and St. Louis in the Nor­ris playoffs, as Chevrier played brilliantly. He was outstanding again Tuesday, making 32 saves before being replaced by Pang with 11: 11 to go. 
Happy 21st Birthday Brian! 
Love, Mom Mike & Alice Ed & Colleen John & Sheila Eddie & Mary 

ND softball's winning streak ends with losses to DePaul 

Summer Sessions at Indiana University at South Bend May 15 · June 26 July 5 · August 15 
For your copy of the schedule call237-4455 IUSB Admissions Office 1700 Mishawaka Avenue 
Take off with low fares. 
YOU CAN'T FIND THEM AT THE BOOKSTORE! 
ALL ALBUMS PRICED FROM$ 2 TO$ 4 
AT THE CELLAR YEAR-END SALE 
• 
Unlimited Mileage on One-Way Our offer is only good through Rentals June1,1989 ,sogeto 

• 
24-Hr. Emergency Rood Service move on. 

• 
Full Range of Truck Sizes For quality, comfort, cost and 

• 
Clean, Smooth-Running Trucks convenience, no other rental truck 

• 
Many Trucks With Auto Trans­con move you like aHertz Penske mission and Air Conditioning truck. 


Her~z 

4311 North Mayflower Rd. South Bend, IN 46628-9743 219-277-0144 2220 Taledo Road Elkhart, IN 46516-5538 219-293-0541 
THE WINNING TEAM: HERTZ PENSKE AND YOU. 
Not all trucks available at oil locations. Allloc:al ond one-way rentals sub;ect to Hertz 
Penskt standard rental qual~ications. ©Hertz Penske Truck Leasing, Inc. 1985. You pay far gas, t..es, tolls, collision damage waiver, and parking and driving violations. Dr011 it off at any participating Hertz Penske Truck RentoiiD<otion. 

--~-~---~ 
----------------~-----------~­
Wednesday, May 3, 1989 The Observer page 17 
Female Athlete and Coach of the Year 





Art Lambert Lambert led the Notre Dame volleyball team to its first NCAA Tournament appearance ever and its third con9ecutive 30-win season. 
Waller 
continued from page 20 
to national prominence. 
The squad faced one its toug­hest schedules this past season, meeting many of the nation's top teams, and Waller was one of the catalysts leading the Irish into the NCAA's Sweet 

Pat Murphy Under Murphy's enthusiastic leadeship, the Irish baseball team has posted a 37-12 mark and a 17-5 mark in the Midwes­tern Collegiate Conference. 
Sixteen where they eventually fell to the then fourth-ranked Illini before finishing the season ranked 15th--the team's highest ranking ever. 
She finished among the na­tion's best blockers, was cho­sen as the team's MVP this season, made the AVCA's All­Region team and only missed 



Dennis Grace 

The fourth-year coach of the men's soccer team led Notre Dame to a 17-3-1 record and its first NCAA bid ever in 1988. 
being Notre Dame's first vol­leyball All-American because her statistics were never delivered to the NCAA. 
With or without the All­
American title, though, Wal­ler's skills have not been over­looked as several teams have expressed interest in recruit­ing her to play overseas. 
Male Athlete of the Year 
Dan Peltier (Jr.) 
An academic All-American ias a sophomore, Peltier is having a banner year on the field. He has led the Irish throught the 1989 season with a .453 batting average, a .520 on-base percentage and is slugging .747. He has rached base in all but two of 47 games, scoring 54 runs. He has struck out only seven times in 170 at-bats and has a .988 fielding percentage. 

Andy Heck (Sr.) 
Heck was the first Notre Dame football player to be drafted in 1989, taken by Seattle as the 15th pick in the first rounf. The 6-7,286 pound giant played a tight end before moving to of­fensive tackle his senior year. He was an All-American, and also a tri-capitan, on the Na­tional Championship team. 
"After m1ssmg AU-American, this totally lifts my spirits," said Waller, "but I'm content with the improvements I've made since freshmam year and if I decide to play in France later I'll have new goals to strive for." 
Always the optimist, Waller is satisfied with waiting out fu-
Ron Markezich (Sr.) 
He beat the NCAA qualifying time in the 10,000 meters by 33 seconds, setting a Notre Dame record and running the fastest time in the past two years. He also finished eighth in the team competition at the NCAA cross country meet as the Irish took ninth place in the country. 

ture plans and passing out the credit for her achievements to everyone but herself. 
"I owe everything to my fel­low players," said Waller. "The team really deserves the award, not me, because an in­dividual is nothing without a team and without my team­mates I could have never got­ten to where I am today." 
~ ' I 
\ " ··' 
. 't.

\' \ ,-· 
It took Galileo 16 years to master the universe. You have one night. 
It seems unfair. The genius had all that time. While you have a few 
short hours to learn your sun spots from your satellites before the 
dreaded astronomy exam. 

On the other hand, Vivarin gives you the definite advantage. It helps 
keep you awake and mentally alert for hours. Safely and conveniently. So 
even when the subject matter's dull, your mind will stay razor sharp. 
If Galileo had used Vivarin, maybe he could have mastered the solar system faster, too. 
Revive with VIVARIN: 
Use as dim:ted Contains caffeinf eqwvalrnl oC two cups of coffer. C>Betclwn Inc 1988 



------"" 



-~ --~------~----~~--­
The Observer Wednesday, May 3, 1989
page 18 

--~~·············..·······················..····t 
HAMMES 
N°~~E 



:•
•
t
: 


• •i •
! 
i 

Scotch Package Mailing Tape : $1.99 • 
+ Scotch Clear Box Scotch Strapping: : Sealing Tape Tape : : $2.59 $2.39 : 
................................................., 




Holtz 
continued from page 20 
self on the same level as those past Irish legends. 
When asked what it felt like to be named head coach at Notre Dame, Holtz once responded: 
"I'm 5-feet, 10-inches, weigh 152 pounds, was not a good ath­lete, speak with a lisp and ap. pear afflicted with a combina­tion of scurvy and beriberi. What do you think it feels like to be named coach of Notre Dame?" 
Yes, Holtz is humble. That's more noticeable than his physique, lisp or lack of ath­letic ability. 
He's also established himself as one of the top coaches in the 

.­
nation--no matter what he says. 
"He wants to see everything, and he has an ability to see the perfect picture of what the problem is in preparing for a game," says former Irish co­ach Ara Parseghian, who calls Holtz the Friday before every game. "Every week his total concentration is on nothing more than the next opponent." 
His work with the 1988 Fight­ing Irish already has earned him Coach of the Year honors from Football News and CBS Sports. 
Of course, Holtz would not 

Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer advertising. 
name himself as high as Coach 
of the Week. 

"I didn't come here to be a 
hero or to prove I could coach; 
I already knew I couldn't," he 
quips. 

"I thought Lou would have 
Notre Dame back in a maior 
bowl after three seasons, and 
he did it in two," said Parseg­
hian after the Irish earned the 
Cotton Bowl bid with their 8-3 
season in 1987. "He proved me 
wrong, but none of his ac­
complishments surprise me." 
It did not take long for the 
Notre Dame players to realize 
why Parseghian was such a 
staunch supporter of Holtz for 
the head coaching job. 

"He (Holtz) never says, 
'Well, you can be beaten if you 
don't do this and this,' " says 
tailback Mark Green. "He al­
ways says, 'We can beat them 
if we do this and this.' " 

Holtz does not watch practice 
from the film tower; he gets 
right in on most plays, and is 
known for giving his quarter­
backs a hard time in practice 
to prepare them for the pres­
sure of game day. 

"There's no question who's in ·charge," Rice says. "Here's 
this little old man who has con­
trol over me. His voice really 
carries." 

For three years at Notre 
Dame, Holtz's main rule has 
been winning. 

And this season it was en­
forced to perfection. 

Detroit's Morris in 0-6 slump, off to worst start in his career 
Associated Press 

SEATTLE --The '6' looks 
misplaced, like someone put it 
on the wrong side of the ledger 
opposite Jack Morris' name. 
But the only thing misplaced 
is Morris' ability to win. The 
winningest major league 
pitcher in the 1980s is still 
looking for his first victory of 
1989. 

Morris, 0-6, began the year 
with 156 wins in the decade. He 
is the only pitcher with at least 
15 wins in each of the last seven 
seasons. 

But this season has been a 
disaster. 

"For Morris to be 0-6 is like 
a .300 hitter going 0for 30," said Seattle's Alvin Davis, who drove in the winning run with a seventh-inning sacrifice fly as the Mariners defeated the Tigers 5-3 Monday night. 
"Sometimes, you get a start like that." AP Photo 
Seattle had 10 hits off Morris in 6 2-3 innings and overcame Detroit's Jack Morris, the winningest major league pitcher in the 1980s, a 3-1 deficit with one run in the has yet to get a win in 1989, as he is off to the worst start in his career. 

double in the seventh, Morris mishandled Omar Vizquel's bunt. The Seattle shortstop scored the winning run. 
"His only luck this year has been bad," Detroit manager Sparky Anderson said. 
Seattle manager Jim Lefebvre was impressed with Morris, who struck out seven before being relieved by Frank Williams. 
fifth and three in the seventh. 
Davis, who led Seattle with a single, double and game­winning RBI, has lost none of his respect for the veteran right-hander. 
"He mixed his pitches well early and had good pop on his fastball. He showed us his forkball early, and that's what we got on later," Davis said. 
Morris, who is off to the worst start in his career, became the 
He is 0-6 thus far in the season. 
first Tiger pitcher since Ted 
Gray in 1953 to lose his first six starts of the season 
The Tigers had scored only seven runs in Morris' first five outings, but, they staked him to a two-run lead against the Mariners. 
Morris couldn't hold it. His wild pitch scored a run in the fifth. 
After Jim Presley's leadoff 
Wednesday, May 3, 1989 The Observer page 19 
9:15 a.m. Humanities Colloquium, "On Interdisciplinary Study: Epistemology & Method," by Denis Goulet, Notre Dame professor, Hayes-Healy 20. 
12:30 p.m. ND Dept of Economics Labor Workshop: "Carrots and Sticks: The Uses of Wage Discrimination," by Amitava Dutt, Notre Dame professor, 131 Decio. 
4:20 p.m. ND Dept. of Physics, "Superconductivity on One Dimension," by Nicholas Giordano, Professor at Purdue Uni­versity, Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
8 p.m. ND Peace Studies Program, Dept. of History, Kellogg Institute and Reilly Center lecture: "Science and Cultural Context: The Eugenics Movement in Latin America," by Nancy Stepan, Dept. of history, Columbia University in the Galvin Life Science Auditorium. 
MENUS 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 She played Hot Lips 5 I or sun follower 9 Hideaway 14 Swimming pool on a liner 15 Korean boundary river 16 Aunt, in Aries 17 Short report 18 Paid athletes 19 Do a tailoring job 20 Start of a quip 
23 The Cartwright played by Dan Blocker 
24 Gymnast's perfect score 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

51 End of the quip 59 Negatively charged atom 60 Stratford­on-­61 Mah-jongg piece 62 Refute by · argument 63 Stravinsky's 
made progress 64 Heraldic band 65 Prognosticators 66 Cart on runners 67 Frost's "The 
-Not Taken" 
DOWN 
1 Skirt feature 2"-malice 

toward none . 3 Notion 4 Diminutive hero 
of folk tales 5 Route used to 

avoid traffic 6 Merits 7 Below deck, at 
sea 8 Command to a Yukon dog 9 What to do with 
a claim 10 Innate gift 11 Bellum or 
meridian preceder 12 Phase 


32 Fix the clock for 49 Money makers D.S.T. 
50 Wheel part 33 Church society 
51 Jail-windowin Iowa 

"decor" 35 Kind of monster 
52 Arrow poison 38 Book of the 53 Twitting remark Bible 54 Antony's loan 39 The pits request40 Stairs alternative 55 Race track 45 Roundabout 56 Green one: Var.

way 47 Emulated 57 Spiced stew Pandora 58 Musical pipe 
Notre Dame 
Roast Turkey Grilled Sole Veg Rice Casserole French Bread Pizza 
Saint Mary's 
Ribeye Steaks Jumbo Burgers Baked Cod J?eli Bar 
Join The Observer 

COMICS 
13 Towel word 21 Kind of code 22 Japanese 
seaport 25 Monastery head 26 Site of a Bush 
retreat 27 Church 
instrument 28lsm 29 Classify 31 Leaning to one 
side 

BLOOM COUNTY 
BLOOM COUNTY 
BERKE BREATHED 
BILL WATTERSON 
... (SNI~) 'tl£lL, I TI\INK. HE's VA\..\JABLI:.. 

I 
tJi 
I 
l 
; ~ 
-
@ 
5-'3 
BERKE BREATHE[ 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
NEXT TIM£ WE. Go DO'NN, GIT TO Sl££R 1\.\E Sl£1). 
BILL WATTERSON 
I TlJL/) 1'1\0~ M~D DAD WE 
LEFT 1\()&B£5 BB\1~\) .... I 7RIEP T() G£\ '1119-\ m1\JR~ 
AI<PJI'ID AND CD~'C. !3.'C.~ .... ~D NOW 1.001(, 1-\0BSt.S 'N~ AlL AL(i.l£ 'til-\~ OOR 1-\()jS£ 
W/I.S B~EI'\ 11-liO ! 

'1EA\\, wm, n-1 
SICK t::k GOING 
0\JER At-.10 
nlRol.JGI\ E~'i CBs\~C.\.E ()Ill 1\.\t:. 1-1\LL. 

tiOM SA'fS ~'3£5 'NOO\.Dt-1~ 1-\~'1£ BElli S\Ol£1'1 1\t.S NOT 'IALU/I..B\.E.. 
'tV£~ ClSSIACL£ "?.1? 'tiE 
MISS£.0 '"£ BRIAR PATC\-1, 
OIDt.ft W£?! 
\ 
25 Affairs of the 
heart 28 Ditty syllable 30 Scarlett's place 
34 Fermenting 
yeasts 35 Equipment 36Pro­37 More of the quip 41 "-Clear Day" 42 On the sheltered 
side 43 He had an Alley 44lncline 46 What to keep a 
secret under 47 U.S. folk singer 48 Cassowary's 
cousin 50 Petty thief, to a Brit 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

"Well, Mr. President, let's see ... carry the one, take away three, carry the two ... that would be fourscore and seven years ago." 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
Cl-1, ~<YJ MA~ 
EI.J'C.R'<1111NG SYJNO SO Tt\<RIBL£. 'bJ 5\\<AAD & G\.AD 
B'{ ~lNG {X)~N 'THt:. GUlL~ AAO INiO THE Sl'REA!t\ '(ES . 




Sports 
Wednesday, May 3, 1989
page 20 

Rice, Holtz, Waller take Moose Krause awards 
Peltier, Markezich, Heck close in running 
By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer 
Move over Fiesta Bowl MVP Trophy, the three covers of Sports Illustrated and the 1988 Team MVP Trophy. There is a new award on the mantlepiece for Anthony Eugene Rice--it is the highly coveted Moose Krause Male Athlete of the Year Award voted by the The Observer sports staff. 
Yes, five months after Notre Dame rightfully claimed its No. 1 spot in collegiate football, quarterback Tony Rice can add another award to his resume. 
And who would have thought this from a quar­terback who lined up under the guard instead of the center in his first major collegiate game apperance. The 1988 Award winner who never "thought I would be at college" joins the like of Notre Dame folk legends, Tim Brown, David Rivers and Allen Pinkett. I bet you never thought you would capture this award, did you Tony? Yes, Tony dreams do come true. 
Why did The Observer chose Rice? Why don't we start off with the those reasons that did not play a role. Reason No.1--Not because Rice keeps chewing gum in his socks during every game. Reason No. 2--Not because Tony Rice does not care for ducks like his teammate Chris Zorich. 
"Before games there are cups of chewing gum around the locker room, and I try to be the first one to the gum," said Rice. "I am a gum freak. I chew gum and meditate before 
see RICE I page 15 Junior quarterback Tony Rice and his mentor Irish head coach Lou Holtz of the Notre Dame's national champion football team were named recipients of this year's Moose Krause awards for the outstanding male athlete and coach. 



Holtz wins but Murphy, Grace, Lambert follow 
By MARTY STRASEN Sports Writer 
To a group of freshmen in the winter of 1986, Lou Holtz was the man who was making them wake up at 6 a.m. to work out and vomit. 
Those freshmen are now seniors. And na­
tional champions. 
And Holtz has been named the 1989 winner of 
the Moose Krause Coach of the Year award. 
"During winter conditioning we learned what it takes to win football games," senior Mark Green said of the workouts that soon became known as "pukefests." 
"Those days were hell," Green continued. "Guys puking all over the place. If that's not going to bring a team together, I don't know what will." 
When he was chosen to replace Gerry Faust at the Irish helm after the 1985 season, Holtz met with a team that had little confidence after its 58-7loss at Miami. In three years, he turned it into a team that recorded the first 12-0 season in Notre Dame history. 
Holtz is a disciplinarian and a comedian. 
But most of all, Holtz is a winner. 
"If somebody had an assignment to mold a Knute Rockne and a Frank Leahy, they couldn't have done a better job than Lou Holtz," says Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal. "He is Notre Dame." 
But although Holtz now has pulled off the same feat Rockne and Leahy accomplished before him--winning the national championship--you'll never hear him put him-
see HOLTZ I page 18 
ND volleyball's Waller leads pack 
By MOLLY MAHONEY sports Writer 

Chalk up one more accolade for perpetually peppy senior volleyball player, Mary Kay Waller. 
The 6-0 middle blocker from Lawrence, Kan., whose steady play--and smiles--led the Notre Dame volleyball team to its best season ever, has been cho­sen this year's Moose Krause Female Athlete of the Year recipient by The Observer's sports staff. 
Waller, known more for her skill at the net than for in­timidating scowls and a volatile temperament, made her mark on Notre Dame's squad by cheerfully hitting, blocking and serving her way into the record books. 
This season she led the team­
-and the North Star Conference­
-with a hitting percentage of .363 
on 161 kills and 1.7 total blocks 
per game. 

She recorded a hitting percentage over .400 on six oc­casions this year, had 12 kills on 13 attempts and no errors for a school-record .923 hitting percentage and was named to the all-tournament teams four times--at the Western Mic­higan Invitational, the Holiday Inn-University Park Classic, the Saluki Invitational and the Golden Dome Classic, where she earned MVP honors. 
And Waller leaves as the team's all-time leading block­er, after recording 514 block as­sists and 185 block solos while topping the books with service aces as well, tallying 116. 
So have these accomplish­ments gone to Waller's head? No, far from it. 
"I just feel honored to get the award with so many good ath­letes here," said Waller. "It even seems funny to be men­tioned on the same page with people like Lou Holtz and Tony Rice. 
"I'm just a little ol' volleyball player." 
One would think Waller had graduated from the Lou Holtz school of self-deprecation. 
But Waller can afford to let the record speak for itself. 
Since becoming part of Irish head coach Art Lambert's first recruiting class and finishing her freshman year 12-21, Wal­ler has helped propel the Irish 
see WALLER I page 17 
Opponents 
Mary Kay Waller of the Notre Dame volleyball team and Tony Rice and Lou Holtz of the national championship football team have won this year's Moose Krause Awards. 
Many Notre Dame opponents also have done things worthy of mention this year, but The Obser­ver normally does not offer annual awards to Irish rivals. 
Until now. In the interest of objectivity, I have decided to devote a column to those memorable achievements of Notre Dame opponents. Here are the winners of the first annual Notre Dame Op­ponent Awards, invented this year expressly for this column: 
The We Know Who You Are Now Award: To Val­paraiso University, for upsetting the Irish basket­ball team last December in the Michiana Miracle and scaring the pinstripes off Notre Dame baseball coaches the last two days. 
I used to think Valparaiso was just some school the Notre Dame athletic department made up so that every Irish sports team had at least one easy 

deserve accolades too 
Steve Megargee 
Irish Items 

win on its schedule. Now I know you really do exist, Valpo. Even if people look like tacos wearing your brown and yellow uniforms. 
The Thanks for Reminding Me Award: To former University of Miami football coach Jimmy Johnson. I almost had started feeling sorry for the Dallas Cowboys, a team I'd hated ever since I'd learned how to pronounce "Staubach." 
With Jimmy down in Irving, along with trusty sidekick and Tim Brown Fan Club founder Michael Irvin, I'll never have to worry about sympathizing with the Cowboys again. 
Good riddance and Go Redskins. 
The Football Follies Award: To Pitt quarterback Darnell Dickerson. Despite playing a pretty good game against the Irish (209 yards passing, 76 rush­
ing), it will be pretty tough to forget his fumble at 
the endzone. Dickerson seemed ready to give the 
Panthers the lead when he lost the ball at the goal 
line. 

He was right in front of the football at the goal 
line twice. All he needed to do was fall on the ball, and Pitt would get its touchdown. Unfortunately for the Panthers, the ball managed to slip out both times. 
Darnell, you're a good young quarterback who probably will live this play down. But I bet you've heard about that fumble a few times more than you'd like. 
The Worst Uniform Award: It's tough to pick a winner for this one because there are so many can­didates. It looked like the Illinois-Chicago baseball team had to choose from the defective models of the hideous Montreal Expos uniforms. And when you look at the Valparaiso attire in any sport, you 
see AWARDS I page 14 




