Rainy, but warmer
IACCENT: Club Tuesday Increasing clouds with a 40 percent chance of thun­
derstorms by late afternoon 
today. Windy and warmer.
J VIEWPOINT: Agee: A martyr or fraud? 
High around 60. 


VOL. XXII, NO. 99 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
TUESDAY, MARCH 14,1989 
Stonebreaker will face charges for driving intoxicated 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame football player Michael Stonebreaker has been charged with driving while in­toxicated, a Class A mis­demeanor, according to St. Joseph County Prosecutor Mi­chael Barnes. 
The charge carries a maxi­mum sentence of one year in jail, a $5,000 fine and loss of driving privileges for one year. 
The charges were filed March 6, but no court date has been set, Barnes' office re­ported. 
Additionally, Stonebreaker was charged with failure to wear a seatbelt. 
Stonebreaker and his pas­senger, Saint Mary's student Ursula Garzia, both juniors, were released from Memorial Hospital last week and both have returned to school. 
"We reviewed the evidence, had conversations with Ms. Garzia and her family, reviewed all the attendant evidence in the circumstances and this is the appropriate charge," Barnes said. 
The Notre Dame policy on driving while intoxicated states that students who are cited for off-campus DUI offen­ses will have their driving and parking privileges on campus revoked. Second offenders will be suspended for at least one semester. 
No one was available in the 
Office  of  Student  Affairs  to  
comment  on  disciplinary  ac­ 
tion  to  be  taken  against  

Stonebreaker. 

In an unrelated hit-and-run accident Feb. 26, Tony Brooks, a sophomore football player, was charged Mar. 2 with driving with a suspended license and leaving the scene of an accident. · 
Satterfield's cause of death determined, linked to heart defects 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Staff Reporter· 
Robert Satterfield, the Notre Dame football player who died on Jan. 19, 1989, died as a result of subtle congenital heart defects which were previously unknown. 
The heart defects caused a cardiac arrest followed by a seizure, according to a report by the Berrien County Medical Examiner, F.M. Busse, M.D. 
"In lay terms ... an abnor­mality in the system which reg­ulates the heartbeat" explains why Satterfield died, as stated in the report. 
Examinations also showed that Satterfield had diplomyelia, a double spinal cord, which is uncommon, and would not be expected in a good athlete. This did not cause his death, according to the report. 
Toxicology specimens were examined by two separate forensic labs and neither lab found evidence of drug or steroid use. Niles Township Chief of Police John Street said that an investigation of the scene failed to show any evidence of illicit drugs, accor­ding to the report. 
Satterfield, 22, collapsed from a seizure at O'Tay's 
See HEART, page 5 


The Observer I Jennifer Ott
Safe! 

Jim Maloney, Matt Curoe and Paul Shinn play a game only one of several campus games going on in of baseball in front of Flanner Hall Monday. This was response to the warmer temperature. 
Tentative pact reached before start of Teamsters' racketeering trial 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK-Teamsters of­ficials reached a tentative labor-reform settlement with federal prosecutors Monday, hours before the start of a trial on a lawsuit to oust the union's allegedly mobster-dominated leadership. 
Prosecutors declined to dis­cuss details of the tentative pact, but a lawyer for the Teamsters said the union agreed to introduce constitu­tional amendments for election reform at its 1991 convention. Also three watchdogs, jointly chosen by the union and the government, will investigate and arbitrate alleged union corruption and oversee elec­tions. 
The settlement, reached during the night after round­the-clock weekend negotia­tions, was subject to approval by U.S. Attorney General Dick Thornburgh. 
The lawsuit sought to oust the union's top leadership as the culmination of the govern­ment's decades-long battle to force reform on the 1.6 million­member union. 
Using federal racketeering laws, the Justice Department also sought a court-appointed trustee or committee to over­see the nation's largest union and impose a series of reforms. It was the first time the gov­ernment tried to seize control of an entire union. 
However, in exchange for the agreement, none of the union's ruling executive board mem­bers will have to resign, and no court-appointed trustee or ad­ministrator will be put in charge of the union, said James Grady, the Teamster's general counsel. 
"The members are assured there is a mechanism in place to remove those persons al­leged to be conducting im­proper activities," said Grady. "The goals of a clean and'dem­ocratic union are consistent with the goals of the current leadership.'' 
The lawsuit, filed last June, claimed the Teamsters' leader­ship had been dominated by or­ganized crime, which "deprived union members of their rights through a pattern of racketeering" and a "cam­paign of fear" that included 20 murders, dozens of bombings, beatings, bribes, extortion and theft. 
Twenty-five of 26 reputed mob figures originally named as defendants have been con­victed of Teamsters-related crimes such as extortion through threats of union prob­lems, embezzlement of union funds and illegal labor payoffs. 
Most, however, were dis­missed from the case when they either agreed, or were or­dered, to drop any involvement with the Teamsters. Five, in­cluding convicted Colombo crime family boss Carmine "Junior" Persico, have been severed from the case and will be tried later. 
Teamsters President William McCarthy was amongthe 11 remaimng individual defendants in the case. 
. Leveille resigns from Campus Ministry post 
By REGIS COCCIA Holy Cross priests from 1979 to 
versity, where he received courses, watch good films and Senior Staff Reporter 1985. master's degrees in counseling write out reflections on them," Congenital heart disease will psychology and school admin­said Leveille, whose collection 
Director of Campus Ministry force him into less demanding istration. of music and video movies fills Father Andre Leveille an­work, but he will assume other "I will do some traveling but a closet in his room in 255 nounced this week he will duties when he returns to Notre I'll spend most of the time ~n Alumni Hall, where he has resign at the end of the year to Dame in fall of 1990, Leveille Berkeley," said Leveille, add­lived for the past four years. take a yearlong s_abbatical. said. He said he did not know ing that he may spend some A past resident of Moreau 
Leveille, 43, will leave the what he would be doing after ' time with his family in French Seminary, Corby and Dillon University for medical reasons he comes back. Canada, where he was born and Halls, Leveille said living after his contract expires in Leveille said he will spend went to school. He was or­among students has helped his July. In 10 years at Notre most of the sabbatical year dained at Notre Dame in 1978. campus ministry. He said he Dame, he served four years as with other Holy Cross priests His plans for relaxing next can't walk to his office on the head of Campus Ministry and in a house in Berkeley, Calif., year include ''writing, listen­was vocations director for the near Loyola Marymount Uni-Rev. Andre Leveille. C.S.C. ing to music, maybe take a few 
See LEVEILLE, page 4 
Tuesday, March 14, 1989
page 2 The Observer 
IN BRIEF 
Two Saint Mary's College faculty members have been awarded Lilly Endowment Faculty Open Fellowships for the 1989-90 academic year. Clayton Henderson, profes­sor of music and chair of both the department of music and department of communication and theatre, will un­dertake in in-depth study of American visuarand perform­ing arts of the 1930s. Assistant Professor of Psychology Rebecca Stoddart will apply her research findings in developmental psychology to language-delayed children at the United Health Services' habilitation nursery in South Bend. -The Observer 
A race of up to 30 university teams using solar-powered vehicles will compete in July, 1990, from Florida to Michigan according to General Motors Corp. President Robert Stempel. The race will begin at Walt Disney World near Orlando, Fla., in early July and end about 9 days later at the GM Tech Center in Warren, Mich. The route will take racers through northern Florida, Alabama, Tennessee, Kentucky, Indiana and Ohio before its finish in suburban Detroit. It will cover about 1,800 miles. The three winning vehicles will be sponsored by GM in the 1990 World Solar Challenge race in Australia.-Associated Press 
OF INTEREST 
' 
Cath Dahle, a Saint Mary's graduate, will be at the Center for Social Concerns today to represent the Channel Program, a volunteer post-grad program based in Seattle. She will be in the Library concourse until1 p.m., then in the CSC from 1 to 5 p.m. -The Observer 
Senior Formal Bids will beonsaletoday and tomorrow at LaFortune Student Center from 6-10 p.m. Bids will be on sale Thursday at Saint Mary's in LeMans' lobby from 5-9 p.m. Seniors should come prepared with roommate and dinner seating arrangements. Tux measurement ser­vices will also be provi~ed. -The Observer 
Signups for Christmas in April volunteer work will take place in the dining halls today and tomorrow. 
-The Observer 

The Environmental Action Club meets today at 9 
p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
Summer Hall Manager and Assistant Manager applications are due this March 15 in the Office of Student Residences, Room 311 Administration Building. -The Ob­server 
Summer research program for Notre Dame students interested in participating in the undergraduate program sponsored by the National Science Foundation should con­tact Stuart McComas, professor of aerospace and mechan­ical engineering, at 239-5432. Applications are due March 
15. -The Observer 

The Good, The Bad and The Ugly, presented by Phi Alpha and the History Club, begins at 7 p.m. today in Room 117 Haggar Hall. The Observer 
Heart Lights, athreemilefunrun, will beheld Wednesday at 4:30p.m. starting between Grace and Flanner Halls. Registration forms can be left in the boxes in the dining halls, and all participants should be registered by 4 p.m. Wednesday. For more information, call239-5449. -The Ob­server 
Obse..Ver Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local leCturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 

Design Editor ...... . ......... Kathy Huston Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin Design Assistant .......... Karen New love Typist .................................. Will Zamer Typesetters.......................... Tim Kiefer ........................................ Diana Bradley ............................................. Mike Kolar ND Day Editor ..... Margaret McCloskey News Editor.......... . ... Michelle Dall SMC Day Editor ......... Rozel Gatmarten Copy Editor............ . ...... Missy Weber Photographer ....................... Jennifer Ott Sports Copy Editor ......... Molly Mahoney 
ne o..r--(USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday throuah friday except durina cum and vacation periods. ne o..r--is published by the students of the University or Notre Daa. and Saint Mary's ColJcac. Subscriptions may be purdlu· ed ror S40 per year (S2.5 per semester) by writina ne o..r--, P.O. BoK Q, Notre oa-, IDdiaaa 46SS6. 
ne o..r--is a mcmM orne ~rr-. All rcproduetion riahts are raaved. 
INSIDE COLUMN 



N D football players are 'painfully human' 
The recent brushes with the law involving Notre Dame football players just goes to prove the old adage: ''The bigger they are, the harder they fall." 
The news about Mike Stonebreaker, Tony Brooks and their inability to follow the basic rules of the road spread far beyond the Notre Dame campus. When I went home over spring break, everyone seemed to know about our star players and their lackluster performances off of the playing field. 
All of this negative attention prompted me to ask myself, what if the students involved in these accidents were non-athletes? If the stu­dents who broke the law were just "ordinary" Notre Dame undergrads, would the Chicago Tribune be prompted to run a headline like, "Brooks joins Stonebreaker on police blotter"? Probably not. 
What Stonebreaker and Brooks did was ir­responsible, but not unique. Unfortunately, there are a lot of people out there who have fled from the scene of an accident with a yellow stripe down their back that's brighter than the one on the pavement, and there are also a lot of people who feel that as long as they can crawl into the driver's seat, and find the knob to turn on the stereo, they are sober enough to drive. 
What makes these recent incidents so newsworthy is that football players were in­volved. At our school and in society in general, we have a tendency to put athletes up on a pedestal, and when they do something wrong, we are shocked to find out that these athletic "gods" are painfully human. The higher our expectations are about our athletes, the greater our disappointment is when they goof up. 
But why do these athletes goof up in such a big way? Perhaps our hero worship has some­thing to do with this disturbing trend. For ex­ample, if you are a football player and enough people keep telling you how extraordinary you 

Robyn Simmons 
Assistant Accent Editor 
are and large numbers of goo-goo eyed females are chasing )rou down the quad, you may start to believe that you are better than your fellow students. 
In fact, not only could such attention give an athlete the idea that he's somehow superior, but he might also believe that he could get away with more than the average guy. If we keep telling our star athletes that they're super­human, they're going to start believing that they can sideswipe cars without getting caught and drive drunk without getting killed. 
Our football players' athletic talents are ad­mirable, but does that make them better than the students who excel in music, acting, writing, or are just all-around good people? It seems to me that "We are ND" is in actuality "Varsity athletes are ND," and I'm afraid that such an exclusive group fails to encompass the diversity of this campus. 
I think it would be unfair to say that all foot­ball players get egos the size of hot air balloons, but when it does happen, it's usually because they've been encouraged by an overzealous public. I'll be the first to admit that I cheer as loud as anybody else in the stands during a Notre Dame football game and I'm proud of what they accomplished last season, but I don't watch the players on the field with stars in my eyes. Maybe if we stop beholding our athletes with such lofty expectations, we won't be so disillusioned when they drop the ball, on or off the field. 

;;~::;:-::· 
€ampus 


THIS WEEK AT SAINT MARY'S 
4\JIDWrnill'fflUJillll~ llW 004\00J'l~lllf'ITll~® 9pm March 13-1 5 S 1 Carroll Auditorium 
ffi4\Jm00il 1 1 pm March 13-1 5 S 1 Carroll Aud. 
~IkUllffi liUll~~liDb.\W March 1 4 Irish folk singer john Kennedy 8:30-1 1 Haggar Parlor FREE perfromance and refreshmentsl 
,@ruJilrnijf J\fl£~ March I 6 starring john Wayne Haggar Game room FREE (food too) 7pm 
@®ffiilJ1lL,A\~ il~ JiiHlm! 1\flll~Ji FREE 
Carroll Auditorium March 17-8pm, March 18­2pm. March 19-9& llpm  C" A n STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD .,J .L .l. I I  
SAIBT IIARY"S COLLEGE  


EPA attempts to curb medical waste 
Associated Press clinics, laboratories and hospi­
tals) arrive at disposal 
WASHINGTON-The govern-facilities... and not on the ment announced a 10-state pro-beaches," said Sylvia gram Monday to track medical Lowrance, director of the EPA wastes, hoping to help avoid a office that deals with solid repeat of last summer when waste regulation. beaches closed after syringes In response to a summer and other medical debris during which beaches in the floated ashore. northeast and along some of the 
But Environmental Protec-Great Lakes shut down be­tion Agency officials said the cause syringes and other medi­pilot program, while curbing cal wastes were found washed disposal of medical wastes ashore, Congress last year di­from small clinics, laborato-rected the EPA to implement ries and hospitals, will not be a medical waste tracking sys­the complete answer to the tern. waste problem on beaches. Congress singled out 10 
The agency said that only states for the two-year pilot about 10 percent of the medical program: Connecticut, New wastes that washed ashore last York, New Jersey, Pennsylva­year came from the sources nia, Ohio, Michigan, Indiana, covered in the new rules. Much Illinois, Wisconsin and Min­of the rest came from home use nesota. Other states may of medicine and supplies and choose to join the program, and from illegal drug use. the seven states other than Con-
Nevertheless, officials said necticut, New York and New they hoped the tracking Jersey may withdraw from the procedures that will be re-program within 30 days. quired in the 10 states, stretch-_ ing from Wisconsin eastward The EPA tracking require­along the Great Lakes to Con-ments call for physicians, den­necticut and New Jersey, will tists, veterinarians, small provide new tools to discourage clinics, laboratories and hospi­improper disposal of medical tals to keep detailed records wastes. that follow a particular medi­
"lt's going to help ensure cal waste from origination to that medical wastes (from final disposal. 

..."""\1~-~~-~~--.,.,_-•....-~-~...,..-"""'\11"'!~ Relay Satellite, its double 
St. Patrick s Day ~ is COMI G " 
IRISH NIGHT AT THE ALLEY! 

*entire Beacon Bowl alley rented for N.D. students from 9:00-1:30 am *discount with student I.D. 
~ *round trip buses leave from main circle · every 45 minutes startin at 8:45 
SHAMROCK SHUFFLE! 
*4K run for students, faculty & staff, starts at 4:30 from the Fieldhouse Mall 
on Thursday registration at 4:00 t-shirts for all participants 
~ St. Patrick's Day
I 
~ Get Your Own Audiocassette I; Irish Songs of and Music 
~
! 
----~ -----~---------------, 
The Observer page 3 

Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.­Discovery's astronauts, safely in orbit Monday after a weather-delayed launch, set free a $100 million satellite to complete a globe-spanning net­work that will let future spacefarers call Mission Con­trol at almost any time. 
The 2-ton Tracking and Data 

parasol-like antennae folded, slipped clear of Discovery's cargo bay at 4:10p.m. EST and floated into space. 
"We had a good deploy, on time," said Discovery Mission Specialist Robert Springer. 
At a critical moment in the 

deployment, an unexplained from the discharge of the satel­electronic signal momentarily lite's first-stage rocket. jammed a computer used to Deployment of the satellite deploy the satellite, but then, came 6 hours, 12 minutes after just as mysteriously, the rna-Discovery leaped from its 
SMC Programming Board holds final meeting and evaluates goals 
By LAUREL VITALE News Staff 
The Saint Mary's Program­ming Board held its last formal meeting of the semester Mon­day night to evaluate the goals accomplished in the 88-89 school year. 
Lisa Hill, vice-president for student affairs, said she is proud of the diverse events the board has provided. 
Ui'~~....~~-•,_..-~-~1""-~~--~w--~,_.~ "I am happy the board com­
~,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,....._,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,.,..,..,...., 
I ~ 
~ CELEBRATE NOTRE DAME'S HOLIDAY ~ 
ST. PAT'S DAY AT NOTRE DAME-LIVE ~ Only $8.95 ; ~ At the Gift Counter, Notre Dame Bookstore ~ 
I I
l ............................................................................................................~ 
I 
~ 
~ 
1 
I ~ I 

chine cleared up and appeared normal. 
"We didn't get any (more) of those spurious signals," Springer said. 
Mission control confirmed that data on the ground showed that the computer was func­tioning normally. 
An hour after the deploy­ment, TDRS's powerful first­stage rocket was to fire and send the craft toward a new, higher orbit. A second-stage rocket, set to fire at 10:23 p.m., will carry the satellite toward its work station 22,300 miles over the Atlantic Ocean. 
After TDRS floated off, mis­sion commander Michael Coats gently moved Discovery away to protect the shuttle seaside launch pad and raced out of view across a clear Florida sky in a launch that marked a successful beginning to NASA's plan to fly seven shuttles this year. 
Discovery, its rockets firing flawlessly, charged smoothly into orbit with five astronauts, the communications satellite and a cargo of experiments that includes four rats with clipped bones, and 32 chicken eggs. 
"It's a great start to a long launch season," launch direc­tor Bob Sieck told a news con­ference at the Kennedy Space Center. 
The 9:57a.m. EST liftoff was an hour and 50 minutes later than planned. Early-morning fog-so dense it obscured the launch pad from just a short distance away-caused some delay, but the major problem was winds five miles overhead. 

missioners have paid attention to academic, spiritual, social and cultural needs of the stu­dents," Hill said. 
The events board members have brought to the Saint Mary's campus include movies and singing groups. Hill said the members have also been re­sponsible for organizing intra­mural sporting events and class masses. 
"I am thankful for this year's devoted student activities and programming board commis­sioners," Hill said, "but (I'm) also excited for next year's members to build on what we've established." 
Although Monday night's meeting was its last, the pro­gramming board will still be busy selling T -shirts for St. Patrick's Day at Saint Mary's. The shirts cost $7 and are being sold this week in the basement of Haggar Center. 
Kim and Reggie Harris, a musical duo, have also been scheduled to perform in O'Laughlin Auditorium on March 29 at 8 p.m. Tickets are free of charge. 

Don't drink and drive 
A public service message from The Observer 

Tuesday, March 14, 1989 
page 4 The Observer 
-------------~~--



Leveille 
continued from page 1 
Hesburgh Library concourse 
without stopping to talk to 
someone he knows. 
"He's been great in Alumni. 
He's been a great pastoral 
presence," said Alumni Hall 
Rector Father George Rozum. 
"He's a very caring and 
generous, pastoral person." 
"Notre Dame gives a won­
derful opportunity to do mini­
stry as a priest. It's just un­
believable that as a priest you 
come into peoples' lives at key 
moments," Leveille said. 
As director of Campus Mini­
stry and chaplain to alumni, 
Leveille prepares about 50 
couples a year for marriage, 
joins many couples in mar­
riage and even baptizes their 
children. 
The hard part of his job, however, comes as counselor and consoler. Leveille often is the first University official to meet students and parents when death or serious illness strikes. 
"I think the thing that makes me most credible as a priest is not the theory or the theology,'' he said. "When you speak from your own life experience, you become more credible as a priest." 
Senate plans 'Christmas in April'' project 
BY NATASHA WILSON Senior Staff Reporter 
The student senate discussed plans for its promotion of the upcoming service project Christmas in April at a brief meeting Monday night. 
To recruit volunteers for the April 8 project, senate repre­sentatives will hold student sign-ups Tuesday and Wednes­day nights in the dining halls. 
Christmas in April is a one day service project in which volunteers will renovate houses of needy and elderly South Bend residents on the northwest side of the city. 
Student Body President Tom Doyle stressed the importance of large student participation in the event. 
The senate also presented the scheduled campus events for St. Patrick's Day. The celebra­tion will run from Wednesday through Sunday and will in­clude bowling, a 4K run, the Irish king and queen contest, a block party, movies and a glee club concert. 
Doyle also announced that he and other senate members will meet with the South Bend mayor, police chief and city at­torney and Notre Dame admi­nistrators this Wedne..;day to discuss off-campus crime. 
The senate, Doyle said, is planning a program with the Intellecutual Life Council on racism in response to a recent report on race relations written by an American Catholic bis­hop. 
As a part of the Year of Cul­tural Diversity, Saint Mary's College will also host a reading by Pulitzer Prize winning writer Gwendolyn Brooks on March 22, said Katherine Kol­ler, Saint Mary's representa­tive. Brooks, Illinois' poet laureate, will read from her works 7:30 next Wednesday in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's. 


Vincennes captain's van bombed, suspect sought 
Associated Press body who saw something very suspicious and out of place," SAN DIEGO-A federal law FBI spokesman Gene Riehl 
March 14th 1989 
OFFICE OF My dear Notre Dame Family, enforcement official today said said. "We're looking for people two Middle Eastern-looking who saw anything suspicious." 
0MPUS 

I am writing this letter to inform you th~t 
men were in Will Rogers' 
I will be taking a sabbatical year of part 
neighborhood, looking for the Investigators remained un­
time study and rest for the academic year of 
1989-1990. I will be living with several 
MINISTRY 

home of the USS Vincennes certain today whether the 
Universify of Notre Dome other Holy Cross priests at our residence in 
skipper, in the weeks before a bomb was the work of terror­
Notre Dome. IN 46556 Berkeley, California. 
van driven by his wife was ists retaliating for the jetliner's 
llbroryConcourse219•239·6536 

At the conclusion of my sabbatical year I 
bombed. downing.
Badm Holl219·239·5242 

plan to return to Notre Dame to continue my 
The official, who spoke on
ministry in a different position than the one 
I presently hold as Director of Campus Minis­
condition of anonymity, said it The law enforcement official 
try. Because of a congenital heart condition 
was not clear if investigators who said the men were spotted
I will be ministering in a capacity which is 
less demanding than my present one. 
had been able to piece together asking where the Navy captain detailed descriptions of the two lived spoke following a report
As a member of the Holy Cross community I 
have had the opportunity to serve in the min­
men. The information was in today' s New York Times that 
istry of Catholic education for twenty years. 
based on interviews with neigh­a man of Middle Eastern ap­
Half of these have been spent here at Notre 
bors, the official said. pearance_ asked passers-by,
Dame in w.y work with vocations and campus min­
istry. I am looking forward to my sabbatical 
Rogers commanded the mis­"Where does the captain live?" 
'year and will return--God willing refreshed and 
sile cruiser that mistakenly The FBI described the bomb 
ready to serve you once again. 
shot down an Iranian airliner as "an improvised explosive 
God bless all of you who have been so kind 
in the Persian Gulf last July, device" that wasn't made by
and supportive during my years of ministry at 
Notre Dame. 
killing all 290 people aboard. the military and may have Rogers' wife, Sharon, was been homemade. Types of such driving the van alone Friday devices include pipe bombs,
I remain, 
when the bomb exploded, Riehl said. 
Sincerely yours in Christ, 

destroying the vehicle. Mrs. Rogers wasn't injured. Tom Hughes, head of the
~tti, ~V oi 0 Q.a":, c.s.c.. 

On Sunday, the FBI appealed bureau's San Diego office, said 
Rev. Andre Leveille, c.s.c. 

for information about the bom­it will take a lengthy analysis 
Director of Campus Ministry 

bing. to determine exactly what type "We would like to find some-of bomb was used. 
''No matter how bad they are, Grandrila loves to hear the latest jokes.'' 

You miss her sparkling sense_ of humor. She misses you and your jokes. Even the had ones. That's one good reason to call long distance. AT&T Long Distance Service is another good reason. Be­cause it costs less than vou think to hear your grand­mother start to giggle be­fore you even get to the punch line. 
So whenever you miss her laughter, bring a smile to her face with AT&T. Reach out and touch someone~ 
Ifyou'd like to know more 
about AT&T products and 
services, like the AT&T Card, 
call us at 1800 222-0300. 
-
--
-


AT&T 
The right choice. 


--------~--~~-----~-~~--­
Tuesday, March 14, 1989 
Bush holds talks with Israeli foreign minister 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The Bush administration asked Israel on Monday to ease its grip on the occupied West Bank and Gaza while U.S. policy-makers ponder ways to promote Mideast peace talks. 
Secretary of State James Baker broached the proposal in a meeting with Israeli Defense Minister Moshe Arens. 
"We certainly want to reduce tension," Arens told reporters after meeting with Baker. But, Arens added, "It's not easy to do that considering the vio­lence in the area at the present time." 
However, the visiting Israeli official also commented, "I think we will find common ground on how to do this." 
Arens then met with Presi­dent Bush at the White House for a half-hour and also with Vice President Dan Quayle. 
"We didn't arrive at any finalized or defined positions," Arens said afterward. "I think it is probably premature to ex­pect that at this point." 
Baker described the actions he urged on Arens as "various reinforcing and reciprocal steps which might be taken to defuse the tension there." He was not specific. But even before Arens arrived, pub­lished reports said they in­cluded release of Palestinian prisoners and a general easing of Israeli control. 
Next week, Robert Pel­letreau, the U.S. ambassador to Tunisia, is expected to ask the Palestine Liberation Or­ganization to block guerrillas 

Protester in Chile 
AP Photo Police take away a supporter of military President Augusto Pinchot bleeding from his head after a clash with anti-government protesters 
in Santiago. The man holds a chain he used to attack demonstraters protesting in the city's center as Pinchet delivered his annual state­of-the nation speech. 

······ ····· 
. . . . . . . n~en\S ...... 
.• •• • • -t'S ft~ • • .... 
• G~\\)Cl'" •••••••
\l .......••• 

. . .. . 
Senior F Tuxedos 

• 20% off Classic Styles (Tropic Formals) 
• 1st Choice 
Guaranteed 
(on orders placed by April lst) 

• 
Orders taken at LaFortune March 14th & 1 

• 
Convenient pick-up at Morris Inn April 19th & 20th 

• 
NO DEPOSIT REQUIRED 


One man tells another. it's 
gt·t~rtS 123 W. Wuhiogloo """ 
South Bend, Indiana 46601 Store Hours: Mon. & Thurs.: 9:00 to 8:00 Thes.. Wed., & Fri.: 9:00 to 5:30 Sat. -9:00 to 5:00 

from trying to infiltrate Israel. 
The parallel appeals to Israel and the PLO seem designed to bring the two sides together eventually. The Israeli govern­ment refuses to deal with an organization it accuses of con­tinuing terrorism, while a PLO aide said Sunday in New York the U.S. approach was un­balanced and outdated. 
Nabil Shaath, who was granted a visa by the adminis­tration to attend a conference at Columbia University, said "We are the only occupied people in the world who are being asked to refrain from any expression against the occupa­tion. That's ridiculous." 
Baker said he had ''a produc­tive exchange of views" with Arens at the State Department. Returning the kind words, Arens said their talk "contributed to building a basis of understanding between us.'' 
At the same time, Baker stressed any settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict must "address the legitimate politi­cal rights of the Palestinian people." 
Baker reaffirmed the U.S. commitment to Israel's secur­ity and said, "We can and must find a way to move ahead" toward an overall settlement. 
Despite pressures from Arab and West European govern­ments, the Bush administra­tion is moving slowly in formu­lating a plan for Mideast peace talks. 
''It's just basically common sense that before you do anyth­ing that you could consider an initiative, you've got to change the conditions and lower the level of violence and confronta­tion," a U.S. official, speaking on grounds of anonymity, said Sunday. 
Bush has said he would not be rushed by a Soviet diplomatic initiative in the Middle East into offering wide­ranging new peace initiatives in his talks with Middle East leaders. Arens will be followed here by Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, King Hussein of Jordan and President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt. 
Bush has kept open the U.S. dialogue with the PLO that began last December despite a series of attacks by PLO guer­rillas on Israeli security posi­tions across the border in southern Lebanon. 


Authorities seeking cause of USAF helicopter crash which killed 15 
Associated Press 
TUCSON, Ariz.-Crew mem­bers on a military helicopter that crashed and burned in the desert were wearing night­vision goggles, but that was not a factor in the accident that killed 15 servicemen, Air Force officials said Monday. 
Use of the light-amplifying goggles has been questioned in a number of previous military crashes. 
Four Air Force Reserve crewmen and 11 Army Special Forces soldiers from Fort Bragg, N.C., were aboard the CH-3E "Jolly Green Giant" helicopter that went down Sun­day night in the desert 25 miles northwest of Davis-Monthan Air Force Base. 
Capt. Carlos Roque, a spokesman at Davis-Monthan, said he had no information on the sequence of events leading to the crash and didn't know if there had been any radio trans­missions. 
Sgt. Jill Archer quoted Air­man 1st Class John Klemack, a spokesman for the 71st Special Operations Squadron at Davis­Monthan, the crew's unit, as saying, "We don't know what height they were flying at when the crash occurred." 
The Vietnam-era helicopter, assigned to Davis-Monthan, was ferrying the soldiers from Fort Huachuca, 79 miles sout­heast of Tucson, to an Air Force gunnery range at Gila Bend, 124 miles northwest of Tucson. 
It went down in an uni­nhabited area adjacent to the Saguaro National Monument about 20 miles northwest of Tucson, after stopping at Davis-Monthan to refuel, Roque said. 
"I looked up and I seen a yel­low ball, like flames, coming out of the back," said Mike Skrekas, who lives a few miles from the crash site. "Five seconds later I saw it hit the ground, and then there was a red fireball." 
A second helicopter was ac­companying it but was a reasonable distance away and was not involved in the crash, Roque said. 
Air Force Lt. Col. Darrel Hayes said the helicopter that crashed had undergone a man­datory inspection just last Friday that resulted in replace­ment of its main rotor head shaft nut. It was flown safely 

Concert Band 
SPRING CONCERT Wednesday, March 15, 1989 
8:00p.m. 
Joyce Athletic & Convocation Center University of Notre Dame 
FREE ADMISSION PUBLIC INVITED 
three times after that work. 
Roque said the flight crew was wearing night-vision goggles that amplify low light but that investigators had de­termined that the goggles "were not a factor in the acci­dent." 
Roque said previous helicop­ter crashes in which pilots were wearing such goggles "were flying low-level or in close proximity" with other aircraft and that the goggles, "when used in close proximity or low level, may have caused a vision problem." 
He said the flight from Tuc­son to Gila Bend was to be "a regular, straight, level flight." That is, "it didn't involve any capabilities other than flying in a straight line," as opposed to low-level "nap of the earth" flying, following the contour of the land, he explained. 
"They were not doing that on this flight," said Roque, "and as a result when they were using the night-vision goggles they were in open air space and not in proximity to anything." 
Identities of the victims were not immediately released. Roque said the bodies would have to be identified through medical and dental records. 





Heart 
continued from page 1 

nightclub in Niles, Mich. He was brought by ambulance to Pawating Hospital in Niles and was pronounced dead at 3 a.m. 
The physicians performing the autopsy thought that Sat­terfield was brain dead by the time life support measures were started, said the report. 
"Mr. Satterfield had been in excellent health. As il member of the Notre Dame football team, he was required to main­tain a high level· of physical condition. His medical history did not reveal any obvious cause for his sudden death," stated the report. 
~need someone with theconfidenceofa~ 
thededicationof-amarathonerand the rourageofanexplorer. 
We need a Peac(' Corps volunettr Call us alt-800-424-8580, Ext. 9l 
PeaceCorps. 
llw~JOhyou'D~II:M. 


~ -----------­

page 6 The Observer Tuesday, March 14, 1989 



Eastern Airlines could offer cut-rate strategy to strikers 
Associated Press 

MIAMI-Eastern Airlines im­posed a cut-rate pay package on Machinists workers Monday that gives them far less than the wages that prompted a 9­day-old strike, and makes the airline the lowest paying of all major carriers. 
"I think it's obvious they don't want anybody to come back to work," Wally Haber, a general chairman for the Mac­hinists union, said of the new pay scale, which applies to union workers who cross picket lines as well as new hires. 
But Eastern continued to dis­play its resolve to fly, renewing more routes as part of a gradual rebuilding that centers on Latin American service and 
cheap  Northeast  shuttle  
flights.  
Some  Wall  Street  analysts  

said Eastern appears likely to expand its off-price fare strat­egy, which was so successful last weekend that hundreds of people were stranded in air­ports when they couldn't get aboard packed Eastern shuttle flights. 
At Miami International Air­port, people lined up Monday to buy tickets instead of demand refunds, and the com­pany reported steadily increas­ing sales. The company has recalled about 100 employees, mostly reservations agents, who were laid off one week ago when Eastern cut back to 1,500 employees. 

Eastern, which on March 9 filed for federal bankruptcy re­organization, operated 75 flights Sunday and aimed for 85 Monday. 
The company resumed jet­liner service between Miami and New York, Montreal and San Juan, Puerto Rico. Eastern also has renewed service on 13 Latin American routes since the strike began March 4. 
Eastern had planned to resume jetliner service be­tween Boston and Washington on Monday but delayed that un­til Thursday. Company spokes­
man  Robin  Matell  said  the  
company  had  "to  call  an  
audible."  

The Air Line Pilots Associa­tion, meeting in Washington in national executive session to discuss strike benefits for Eas­tern members, ridiculed the company's credibility and its service plans. 
"We believe they will be sig­nificantly hampered in ever reaching these stated goals be­cause they don't have the pilots," Eastern pilots spokes­man Ron Cole said in Miami. 
The pilots union estimated that by Sunday, Eastern was flying only 3.5 percent of its pre-strike schedule of 1,040 daily flights. 
The pilots union also charged Eastern "betrayed its trust to the flying public" by leaving about 550 passengers at air­ports in Boston, New York and Washington over the weekend. Cole said the shuttle service previously has had backup flights available to guarantee a seat to every customer. 
Eastern spokesman James Ashlock said all those left in the airports overnight were moved out Monday morning. 
Eastern flew about 30,000 people during three days of $12 bargain fares, which Monday went up to $49, still less than half the normal $99 weekday fare. 


Jameson and Schoupe are dowment vice president for among 21 faculty members at education, said, "Summer 13 Indiana institutions selected stipends are indended to for the 1989 awards. Applicants reward and encourage the con­submit proposals, which are tributions that individual fac­judged by an independent ulty members can make to the panel of out-of-state judges. course offerings of their insti­
tutions. In the final analysis, In announcing the winners, faculty are the chief resourse William Bonifield, Lilly En-of any college or university. 
• HAPPY 21ST • • •• • BIRTHDAY KAREN CHROSNIAK 
We Love You ... 
Mom, Dad, & 
Micky 


·············································~ 
f. '~;,. "Ar~Y: •• -~ ' ~-~, ~ tiiilll b. , ' .L ! :._.,,. It's not real AP Photo A motorized model of a Hughes 500-C helicopter hovered near Larry Levine Saturday in Helsel City Park on the Far East Side of Colum­bus. Ohio. Levine, an aircraft mechanic, built the scale model. Some of his models have been used in TV commercials and movies.  

THE MORRISSEY FILM FESTIVAL ~J:r ~·'" ~~ I"-. I CONGRATULATIONS CARROLL HALL 1989 BEST PICTURE ********* THANKS TO ALL WHO PUT TIME INTO THE FILMS. A TAPE OF ALL ENTRIES WILL BE MADE AVAILABLE SOON. WATCH PERSONALS FOR DETAILS  

SMC faculty members to get Lilly stipends 
Special to the Observer 
Saint Mary's College faculty members Penny Jameson and Catherine Shoupe have each been selected to receive $5,000 stipends from Lilly Endow­ment Inc. for new course devel­opment over the summer. 
Jameson, associate professor of psychology, will create a class in "Motivation and Emo­tion." Shoupe, assistant profes­sor in the department of sociol­ogy, anthropology and social work, will initiate work for the 
course  "Anthropology of Wo­ 
men."  
Lilly  Endowment,  an  

Indianapolis-based private charitable foundation, in­stituted the summer stipends in 1983, to further faculty curric­ulum development in Indiana's independent colleges and uni­versities. A total of 90 faculty members have created new courses with the support of the stipends. 
NOTRE DAME FACUL TV 
Live in South Bend's newest, most 
march 17, 18, 19

exciting condominium development. 
8~gill5 friday, march 17 ar 6:oo pm 1rophi~5 tor 15f, ~lid a11d Jrd f/ac~


* 1 mile from Notre Dame 
1-Jhirf5 tor afl ~llfrallf5
* New Construction 
m~11·5 fldva11c~d & /llf~rm~diaf~
*Tax Abatement 
Wotn~ll$ Op~ll

*Security Systems ** A profitable investment** 
HOJJ'/111L/1Y C£171£~ Of£17 111 fiLL 1/m£) 
call I'
TARIPP DEVELOPMENT CORP. Contact Christopher Matteo I ; 



-ILEOEtsmO!I<::~:::__J L::::::=__~:::::.J 


.r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, March 14, 1989 The Observer page 7 

Notre Dame receives money for research 
Special to the Observer 
The University of Notre Dame received $851,069 in grants during February for the support of research and various programs. Research funds totaled $435,217, includ­ing: 
$150,000 from the U.S. Depar­tment of Energy for research by John LoSecco, associate pro­fessor of physics, on non­accelerator high energy physics. 
$74,866 from International Business Machines for re­search by J. Kerry Thomas, Nieuwland professor of science in chemistry on metal deposi­tion mechanisms in laser chemical vapor deposition. 
$55,936 from the National Aeronautics and Space Admin­istration's Lewis Research Center for research by Hafiz Atassi, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, on nonuniform flows and noise radiation of turboprops. 
$55,515 from the J.D. and C.T. MacArthur Foundation for re­search by A. Peter Walshe, director of Mrican studies pro­gram and professor of government and international studies, on prophetic Christian­ity and the search for justice and peace in South Mrica. 
$30,700 from the National Sci­ence Foundation for research by Andrew Sommese, profes­sor of mathematics, on transcendental algebraic geometry. 
$25,000 from the Solar En-
Research Institute for 
,....~-----------..;;..,~""" ""'"""""~----..works in the two counties. 
studies by William Berry, act­ing chairman and professor of electrical engineering, on thin film modules. 
$24,400 from Our Sunday Visitor Inc. for research by Ralph Mcinerny, Grace profes­sor of medieval studies and director of the Jacques Maritain Center, on the Sum­mer Institute in the Fundamen­tals of the Catholic Faith. 
$5,000 from the Lilly En«;low­ment Inc. for research by An­gel Delgado-Gomex, assistant professor of modern and clas­sical languages, on the shaping of Americas between 1492 and 1700. 
$5,000 from the Lilly Endow­ment Inc. for research by Paul Rathburn, associate professor of English, on Shakespeare in performance. 
$4,800 from the National Sci­ence Foundation for research on weak interactions in heavy atoms by Walter Johnson, pro­fessor of physics, and Jonathan Sapirstein, associate professor of physics. 
$4,000 from the National Sci­ence Foundation for research by Vicki Martin, assistant pro­fessor of biological sciences, on stem cell differentiation. 
Research for service pro­grams totaled $35,708 from private benefactors and pro­grams of the Institute for Pas­toral and Social Ministry. 
Research for facilities and equipment totaled $380,144 from International Business Machines for a thermochuck and display terminal; the use of which will be administered by Bernstein. 
STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGSI 
,------·COUPON SAVINGS-------.
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT I 
I Reg. $8 MasterCuts : 
l--------------~~~~~,
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT 1 
I A MasterCuts I
I eg· $8 tamily haircutters 

r-------------------1I 
!$5 OFF ANY~~! 
~------------------~ 



MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
277-3770 


AP Photo Inside view of the bus carrying schoolchildren that three children were injured when the boulder fell from was crushed by a 200-kilo boulder in Die, France a 66 foot cliff and rolled down to the road to smash Friday. A boy and a girl, both eleven, were killed and the bus. 
Bus crush 

EPA has proposed sanctions for Lake, Porter counties in Indiana 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-The state's inability to enforce a vehicle in­spection and maintenance pro­gram in Lake and Porter counties has prompted the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to propose sanctions against Indiana, the agency an­nounced Monday. 
The proposed sanctions would include cutting the state's federal highway fun­ding and restricting grants for certain sewage treatment 
The EPA also would extend a construction moratorium im­posed on Lake and Porter counties last September. 
The EPA has complained that not enough motorists are complying with the state's ve­hicle testing program, which involves only motorists in four counties, including Lake and Porter near Chicago and Floyd 
(lawmakers) come up with an

•••••••••••••e••e••••e. acceptable plan so that we 
• 

Aerobic & Water Aerobic Instructor 
e 
• T t
• ryou S 
• 

• 
Stop by the NVA Office & Complete the following • • 1. Application 

• 
2. File CPR Certification



e 
3. Tryouts March 13th -May 5th 
• 
sign up now at NVA office with Sandye 4. Final interview
• 
• Any questions call Sandy 239-5965
e 
proJects that would add to a1r quality problems," he added. 


The EPA has scheduled an April 13 public hearing on the proposed sanctions. The hearing will begin at 10:30 a.m. in the County Commissioner's Courtroom in Crown Point. 
In January, a federal judge in Milwaukee ordered the EPA to issue plans for ozone control in Indiana and Illinois within 14 months 
Under the federal Clean Air Act, industrial areas such as northern Indiana were re­quired to adopt plans to control by mid-1982. The EPA was then to approve the plans or impose its own plan for the states by February 1983. 

and Clark across the Ohio River from Louisville, Ky. 
No sanctions have been pro­posed against Floyd and Clark counties because county offi­cials have implemented an in­terim enforcement program, pending action by the state, the EPA said. 
The agency said, however, that if the Indiana General As­sembly does not enact ade­quate legislation, sanctions will be taken against the south­ern Indiana counties, as well. 
Under the current program, the registration of noncomply­ing vehicles is suspended. But the EPA, citing a 68 percent compliance rate, maintains the Indiana program is not· effec­tive. 
Last month, the Indiana House of Representatives passed legislation that would allow state officials to deny registration for vehicles that 
• 
don't have to proceed with this," de Blasio said. 

• 
The sanctions would include e cutting up to $300,000, or 8 per-e cent, of the state's annual fun­

• 
ding for air quality programs. 

• 
Indiana gets about $2.5 million from the EPA in grants for •• such programs, Lynch said. 


Also, up to $21 million in e federal highway funds would
e be affected, de Blasio said. 
• 
Highway funds not affected 

• 
would include those earmarked 


for safety projects, mass tran­e sit programs or air-quality pro-
e gr'~Imts. ld b tt·
e wou e cu mg our own thr~ats if we cut off funding ~o don't comply with the pro­gram. 
If the measure becomes law, the sanctions process will be stopped, the EPA said. 
House Bill 1905, approved by the House on a 98-1 vote on Feb. 23, has been assigned to the Senate Environmental and Consumer Mfairs Committee, where it is awaiting action. 
"It's a moot point if the Legislature goes through and House Bill1905 becomes law," said Catherine Lynch, a spokeswoman for the Indiana Department of Environmental Management. 
She said her agency would have no comment on pending legislation. 
Don de Blasio, an EPA spokesman in Chicago, said the sanctions could go jnto effect by the end of the year, but of­ficials are hoping the action can be avoided. 
"We're hoping that they 


Viewpoint 
Tuesday, March 14, 1989
page 8 

CIA: An institution of terrorism 
-
On March 15, one of Notre Dame's most controversial alumni returns to this campus. Alternately vilified and praised, Philip Agee stands out in the annals of the University's history as a figure consistently willing to stand up to defend his beliefs and in doing so, to defy one of the most powerful and sinister organizations of the modern world. 
Karl Kronenberger Catherine Francis 
guest column 
Agee graduated in 1956 from Notre Dame as a member of the first class to graduate under the University's brand new president, Theodore Hesburgh. Secretly recruited during his senior year, he entered the CIA in 1957. 
In his twelve years as CIA officer working in Ecuador, Paraguay, and Mexico, Agee not only witnessed, but participated in the recruitment of spies, surveillance methods involving phone tapping and room bugging, mail tam­pering, the dissemination of propaganda, the interference in elec­tions of countries with long histories of democracy, torture, and the provoca­tion of military coups. 
By 1968, Agee had grown increasingly disillusioned and outraged by the CIA and its dealings around the world. Reflecting on the CIA as an institution, he saw how it systematically subverted true democracy and human rights by fomenting reactionary movements leading to the establishment of right­wing authoritarian regimes. These realizations prompted Agee to consider what no CIA officer had previously dared, putting his experiences into print. He began to work on a manu­script which would expose how the CIA had consistently worked against the ideals it professed to protect. His aim, in his own words, was "to limit the CIA's ability to undermine democratic institutions and to promote political repression such as torture and murder by death squads." 
When the CIA discovered that Agee had started researching his book, began to worry that intricate covert operations that had taken years to es­tablish would be placed in jeopardy. In­telligence officers contacted Agee's friends and acquaintances, including Father Hesburgh, in order to persuade them to talk Agee out of writing the book. 
Despite these efforts, Agee published the book in 1974; first in England to avoid American censorship laws, but then in the United States. The book, In­side the Company: CIA Diary, has been described as the most damaging book ever to CIA operations. Public opinion regarding the book was varied but in­tense. Many in this country and partic­ularly on this campus were outraged that Agee cited names--a 22 page ap­pendix blew the covers of over 250 un­dercover CIA agents and front organi­zations. 
Agee was in Europe when Inside the Company was first publised, unable to return to this country for fear of a long and costly trial. Pressure from Henry Kissinger resulted in his expulsion from five NATO countries, even though Agee was never charged with any crime, nor, despite popular believe, was any CIA officer or agent ever the object of at­tack of violence as a direct result of Agee's book. President Carter's Secre­tary of State Cyrus Vance revoked Agee's passport in 1979, accusing him of having "caused serious damage to the national security and foreign policy of the United States." Congress subse­quently passed the Anti-Agee Law, prohibiting CIA employees from leaving the agency and then exposing undercover agents by name. 

In 1987, against the advice of his lawyers, Agee ventured across the Niagara Falls bridge, returning to the United States for the first time in 15 years. Since then, he has been able to leave and reenter the country several times, speaking as an international au­thority on the CIA. 
It is in this capacity that he return to his alma mater, an organization which has not treated him well. Agee was an active and well-liked student at Notre Dame. He was in ROTC, involved in student government, and graduated cum laude in philosophy. Page 22 of the 1956 Dome shows Agee, as a member of the academic "Blue Circle," present­ing the Patriot of the Year award to General Curtis LeMay. 
When Inside the Company came out in 1974, there were many negative reac­tions within the Notre Dame commu­nity and alumni. According to John Manion, secretary of the Class of 1956, "for some 15 years, any mention of Phil Agee's name was prohibited in Notre Dame Magazine and its preceding jour­nal. His name was repeatedly cut from the '56 Class Column." Some held the sentiment that Agee was a traitor and an embarrassment to the University. At their 30th reunion the class of 1956 joined to pray together for two of their classmates: Agee and another mem­ber, at the time in Federal prison. 
We vehemently disagreed with the opinions and believe that Philip Agee should be numbered among the most honored of our Alumni. Agee was com­pelled under the Nuremberg Principles to expose the CIA for what it really is: an instrument of international covert terrorism. The CIA has worked directly against the ideals of true democracy in its subversion of the democratically elected governments of Iran (1953), Guatemala (1954), Chile (1973), and many others. The CIA consistently ig­nores domestic and international laws in its involvement in media disinforma­tion, actions to deceive Congress, drug trafficking, assassinations and acts of war such as the mining of Nicaraguan harbors in 1983. 
The CIA justifies its actions by declaring them to be in the interest of national security. In reality, these ac­tions reflect the interests of a very small sector of American society and multinational corporation by installing right-wing dictatorships in countries to keep them part of the "free world," or, in other words, the free market. The interests towards which the CIA works are not concepts such as national sovereignty, self-determination, the 
U.S. Constitution or Democracy but rather the preservation of multi-billion dollar markets and exploitation of Third World peoples and resources. 
The CIA continues to recruit on this campus with the University's blessing while Notre Dame fails to provide any education for its family on CIA atrocities. The hypocricy, deceit and corruption manifested by the CIA's ac­tions are an insult to the values of social justice and Christianity which we in the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community espouse. We encourage all in this com­munity to attend Philip Agee's lecture on March 15, at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. More importantly, we urge them to seriously consider the implications of the CIA's continuing presence here on our campus. 
Karl Kronenberger is a junior and Catherine Francis is a senior in the Col­lege of Arts and Letters. 

Agee not the martyr he claims to be 

Philip Agee, former Central Intelli­gence Agency officer turned virulent anti-CIA critic, is coming to Notre Dame. Many of us would have taken little notice of this event, but another publication here on campus has done its best to beat the publicity drums heralding Agee's return. Agee himself wrote an article for Common Sense; they returned the favor by printing an extremely favorable "profile" of Mr. Agee. They are a little defensive, 

Kevin Smant 
on politics 
though toward the end, the profile states that "Philip Agee has never been accused of any crime. No CIA officer or agent has ever been the object of attack or physical violence as a result of Agee's exposures. His purpose ... is to limit the CIA's ability to undermine democratic institutions and promote the political repression such as torture and murder by "death squads." 
Agee paints himself as somewhat of a martyr, as one who was horrified by the CIA's supposed role in continuing the "exploitation, injustice, repression, and imperial control" in Latin America. He wrote about this despite "intimidation and threats." He was 
merely exposing the Agency's actions 
as an independent citizen, in the name 
of humanity and justice--or so he im­
plies. In order to evaluate Agee's 
sweeping charges, however, we need to 
look at Agee himself. Have he and his 
friends told us the whole truth? Does it 
matter? 
Only you can decide the latter. But all the facts should be known--and there is much that Agee and his followers do not tell us. First of all, Agee's implica­tion that he is some kind of independent watchdog is false. In fact he left the Agency in 1968 not only because of ideological disillusionment--but be­cause he was in debt. He spent time immediately after this not only being "radicalized" by studying at a Mexican university, but also living in Cuba. In fact, historian John Ranelagh writes that Agee's first book, Inside the Com­pany, was published with the monetary help of the Cuban government. It is also 
-logical to assume that Cuba helped him repay his debts. In return Agee passed all secrets he knew to Cuban intelli­gence. 
Agee is widely believed to have kept his contacts with the Cubans in succeeding years. He also worked with Soviet intelligence. Hard to believe? Not if you read an article he wrote in the June 1975 issue of Esquire maga­zine. There Agee expresses admiration for the Soviet KGB. Oh, they are repres­sive at home, but they back the right "people's" movements abroad. Ap­parently Agee's "ends don't justify the means" philosophy only goes so far. 

Agee's notoriety, however, stems mainly from his public exposure of deep-cover agents and covert opera­tions. He and his friends claim that no agent has come to harm because of these exposures. This, too, is false. In November 1975 Agee published an ar­ticle in a European radical newsletter called CounterSpy. In it he revealed the name and home address of Richard Welch, CIA station chief in Athens, Greece. He went on to urge the local populace to "bring pressure on their so-often compromised governments to expel the CIA people." What if the gov­ernments refused? Then, said Agee, "the people themselves will have to decide what they must do to rid them­selves of CIA." 
Agee's exposure was printed in the general circulation newspaper Athens News; a few weeks later, on Dec. 23, 1975, Richard Welch was shot and killed by terrorists on his front doorstep. It is difficult to see how Agee can escape some measure of responsibility for this 
killing. True, rival intelligence 
agencies already knew Welch's loca­
tion; but the general public, and local 
terrorist groups, did not--until Agee told 
them. 
In short, Philip Agee is a fraud. He claims to be a lone prophet, preaching in the wilderness against the mighty CIA, while in actuality one of his books was bankrolled by Castro's Cuba. He claims to stand against oppression, while he tells the Soviet Union what he knows and speaks kindly of the KGB. He claims to be a humanitarian and a democrat, while he recklessly exposes agents to capture and death, and so un­dermines the U.S. foreign policy accor­ding to his own whims. 
I an not urging a boycott of Mr. Agee's talk, nor am I suggesting heck­ling or other kinds of harassment. I'll leave those tactics to liberals and leftists--they're much better at them. I am saying that what Agee says must be put in a wider context and under harsh scrutiny. Indeed, perhaps we shouldn't believe anything or every­thing our government tells us. But, based on the evidence, we surely must not accept everything Agee tells us. 
Kevin Smant is a graduate student in history and is a regular Viewpoint col­umnist. 
-Ih-e-Obse.~~r-­-­-----.1.-=Y=-'-' --­ Editorial Board  Operations Board  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303  Editor-in-Chief..... . .......... Chris Donnelly Managing Editor .............. .................. Regis Coccia  Business Manager ......................... Rich Iannelli Advertising Manager ............................. Molly Killen  
Exec. News Editor ........ ............. Matthew Gallagher  Advertising Design Manager ........ Shannon Roach  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of  Viewpoint Editor ......... ....................... Dave Bruner Sports Editor ................. ..................... Theresa Kelly Accent Editor.................... .. .... John Blasi  Production Manager.... Systems Manager OTS Director... .................  .. .... Alison Cocks ............. Mark Derwent . Angela Bellanca  
the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board.  Photo Editor.............................  .. Eric Bailey  
Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying  Founded November 3,1966  
opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged.  

---~-------~-----­
Tuesday, March 14, 1989 
page 9
Viewpoint 


P.O. Box Q 


Sullivan Principles do not work 
Dear Editor: 
Speaking on campus in February, after returning from a visit to South Africa, Associate Provost Oliver Wil­liams called, again, for continued in­vestment in American corporations that support the Sullivan Principles. According to The Observer's report (Feb. 24, 1989), Williams argued that the "withdrawal of foreign investment is not the best way to change the exist­ing racial hierarchy." However, he seems not to have made it clear that Father Leon Sullivan himself aban­doned the Principles in June 1987. They had failed, Sullivan delcared, to have any impact in undermining apartheid. I should point out that American cor­porations have been heavily invested in South Africa since the early sixties, and that repression of black South Africans has increased significantly, not declined, since then. These corpo­rations had three decades to undermine apartheid, yet failed to do so. In fact, their capital, technology and taxes ac­tually bolstered apartheid. 
At first sight, it is odd to find Williams pursuing a discredited policy. However, when one looks more closely it makes sense. After Father Sullivan discarded his Principles, an "Industry Support Unit" was set up to undertake damage control and manage public re­lations on behalf of corporations deter­mined to remain in South Africa. Mobil, Caltex, and Control Data, inter alia, were represented on the unit. It was this Industry Support Unit that initiated a three-man "National Advisory Coun­cil" to support continued investment and to maintain the fiction that corpo­rations could help to dismantle apar­theid in this way. 
William's visit to South Africa was not as an independent observer; he went there in his capacity as servant of corporate interests. This meshes with his role as a director of the Coal­ition on South Africa (COSA) which is headed by Bishop Richard Risher of the American Methodist Episcopal Zion Church. COSA claims, fraudulently, to represent seven million black U.S. Christians; it lobbies vigorously in Washington against South African sanctions. The evidence from the Interfaith Center for Corporate Re­sponsibility suggests that COSA was launched with the assistance of Pagan International--the public relations firm hired by Shell to thwart the anti­apartheid boycott of its products. 
Father Williams has become the ideal front-man for those American cor­porations determined to remain in South Africa. And, because of his posi­tion as an associate provost for the Uni­versity, he inevitably drags Notre Dame into deliberate opposition to the urgent pleas for tough economic sanc­tions against the apartheid regime coming from the liberation movement and key church groups. These organi­zations include: the African National Congress, the United Democratic Front, the Congress of South African Trade Unions, the South African Coun­cil of Churches, the U.S. Catholic Bis­hops' Conference and the U.S. National Council of Churches. 
I would also remind readers that Fa­ther Oliver Williams continues to dis­sent from the decision made by his own community. Holy Cross Priests of the Indiana Province voted to divest early last year; Holy Cross Sisters had decided even earlier that investment in South Africa was not consistent with a witness to the Gospel. 
Peter Walshe Professor of government Feb. 27, 1989 
Spirit and joy of 
JPW acclaimed 
Dear Editor: 
A week has passed since we left Notre Dame and Junior Parents' Weekend. Though we are now at home and at work physically, our minds and hearts remain at Notre Dame. Mere words are inadequate to express how much we en­joyed our time spent there. 
Just as it is difficult to explain the mystique of Notre Dame, so it is hard to describe exactly what it is that made this weekend with our daughter so spe­cial. Certainly, it was the time spent with our daughter Keli and meeting her friends and their parents. Surely, it was attending all the carefully planned events. Most definitely, it was experi­encing the spirit that is Notre Dame. 
Thank you to all who had to do with bringing about this wonderful weekend, and to our daughter, without whom we could not have been a part of it. 
Bill and Joann Bedics Allentown, Penn. Feb. 24, 1989 
Professor responds to accusations 
Dear Editor: 
It is amazing to me that Father Robert Griffin--in the course of his per­sonal attack on my character and reputation (The Observer, Mar. 2)-­claims that he and I were once "close." What a curious adjective to use since­-aside from one disastrous wedding--I have never visited with him, been in his room, heard him preach, had a meal with him or been to one of his masses. As a matter of fact, I don't believe I have even seem him ten times in twenty years; that's how "close" we have been. 
Now to the substance of his charges-­if they can be sorted out from the false compliments, backpedaling, and in­nuendos that surround them. 
1) Father Griffin accuses me of being an evil old man who, knowingly, does more harm than good to young in­nocents on our campus. 
2) He also accuses me of deliberately and dishonestly setting forth argu­ments in defense of gay people that even "hard-shelled gays" have aban­doned. He doesn't say which ones. 

A more accurate assessment of my situation is, I believe, the following: 
1) I am proud to be a public and old member of GLNMMC and to work, ac­cording to my limited capacities--by word and example--to encourage gay students to live integrated, happy, and successful lives on this, admittedly, un­welcoming campus. I do this almost ex­clusively at public meetings, lectures and rap groups where I express my opinions, share my insights and offer encouragement to the faint-hearted. 
2) My statements about homosexuality and in defense of gay people are my own and are set out with as much candor and honesty as I can muster. I do not pretend to speak for other gay people and frequently find myself in disagreement with many of them on a variety of matters. 
3) In keeping with our academic character, I believe in promoting open, rational discussion of gay issues at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. From long personal experience I know how rampant homophobia is here and just how much damage this emotional dis­order does to students and their families. As persons and as an institu­tion we can do more to alleviate this sad condition of painful misunderstand­ing. 
4) I also believe in an emerging Notre Dame and Saint Mary's in which wo­men and men of every sexual persua­sion will live together amicably. None of us are all that terribly good at friendship, love and fidelity that we can afford to scorn each other or despise each other's gifts. 
Finally, I wonder why Father Griffin, after repeated attempts on my part to contact him, prefers to attack me in print rather than meet with me in private. Is he perhaps afraid that I will not turn out to be the ogre he has manufactured? 
William G. Storey Professor of theology, emeritus March 5, 1989 
Discriminatory ban causes pain 
Dear Editor: 

While recently counseling a senior woman about law schools, we got to talking about discrimination. She brought up how hurt she was that mem­bers of her sex could not be ordained. She went on further to say how painful it was to think that no one at Notre Dame, except for a couple of women faculty, was concerned about this in­justice. 
To my recollection, Notre Dame has always gone to bat for its graduates when there was a discriminatory ban. I couldn't defend Notre Dame's reticence in this matter. It certainly is questionable that nearly forty percent of our graudates at this spring com­mencement can't hold an office in an organization we are affiliated with, and we do not formally say a word . 
John W. Houck Professor of management March 9, 1989 
JPW does reveal a change in students 
Dear Editor: 
Junior Parents' Weekend. February at Notre Dame. We were here with our son at this special time in 1989 with still­vivid memories of our August 1986 par­ting after Freshman Orientation weekend. Our then 18-year-old had stood silhouetted against the dormitory building, alone and uncertain, watching and waving continuously at our car's retreating ·back. 
And now we were again at Notre Dame where the "phone" voices of roommates were attached to faces, the friendliness of parents was as expected and, unlike conditions at our August departure, the February snow beauti­fully blanketed buildings and walkways, casting its bittersweet aura over our anticipated leavetaking. The grotto still had the power to calm and inspire. We felt serene in our belief that nothing had changed. 
But as the weekend progressed and we participated in the Friday evening gala with its live music and con­viviality, in the Saturday mass with its Gospel message which proclaimed, "This is my Son, my Chosen One. Listen to Him," in the elegant Saturday eve­ning "Broadway Revue" presidential dinner, and in the emotional Sunday morning closing brunch, we listened to many messages. One portion of the Fa­ther Edward Malloy's address, however, returned to our minds again and again; he reminded us parents that we had left our children in the Univer­sity's care in 1986 but now were were spending this weekend in 1989 with our adult sons and daughters. He assured us that these young people were differ­ent from those freshmen we had brought to orientation. 
Different? Father Malloy may know about running universities, we reasoned, but he did riot know about our son. We knew our son, though. He looked no different; he sounded no dif­ferent; he was no different. Was the president wrong? 
This time as we prepared to leave we met for lunch on campus to savor the atmosphere and each other's company one last time. Then, as planned, our student would attend his next class and we would depart for the airport and our flight home. So, as the gently falling snow touched first the shoulders of stu­. dents scurrying to class and then settled on the already white grounds and paths, we parted. Our son joined classmates and strode away from us, forward to class and life, no longer alone and uncertain. He never looked back. But we emotion-filled parents remained riveted, silhouetted against the buildings, watching and waving continuously at our adult son's retreat­
ing back. 
Margaret and John Bastian San Antonio, Texas March 3, 1989 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
dl~A80AR[) 7HG'7RI.IMP UM...I BeU&Ve PRJNC!J!6;'Ml$5. MR. T!<JJMP 7HAT'S 7H& 1981 IS ttXJK/NG fOii'IIIAI?J) 70 &VICT!CW CFIIIS ME£!7N6 YOU! J?ENT (f)NTRfX. 
~s. 

Quote of the Day 
'It is better to be faithful than famous.' 
-Theodore Roosevelt 




Accent 


Tuesday, March 14, 1989 

Trite topics of 'TV 101' 
T 
JOE BUCOLO Viewers watched the students Jamie carry the baby or have accent writer piece together videotape and an abortion? Will the show investigate in-depth topics of even follow Jamie's life after he classsroom situation interest. Unique camera this pregnancy topic is over? provides a wonderful angles and the occasional The problem is not the fact basis for a television series. "video journal" segments that these are trivial prob­Whether it be surrounding the provided the show with a look lems. In fact, these are some slow students of "Welcome and style all its own. of the toughest and most Back, Kotter" or the brilliant Unfortunately, the show serious situations plaguing teens of "Head of the Class," oversimplified the whole tele­America's teens; however, the school scenario provides a vision production process, television has battered and series with years of interest­suggesting the construction of tackled these problems to ing situations--if done well. a card house is more difficult death. "TV 101" presents no This year, CBS presents a than producing a television twist to the situation. The school situation in a dramatic show. Such absurdities drew producers pull the character format in "TV 101." a great deal of heat from the of Jamie out of the air. She is 
never mentioned prior to this series of three epsiodes nor

JOE BUCOLO 
will she be mentioned after. How can the audience care about a character it is only permitted to know for three 
To Be Continued ... ~ weeks? "TV 101" also failed the address the most obvious 

The video journals and critics (and rightly so). Thus, subject involved with the documentaries of "TV 101" the show did what any crew abortion question: morality. permeate televisions on Sat­under siege would do-­urdays at 9:00 on CBS. Kevin abandoned ship. Of course, "TV 101" adds Keegan (Sam Robards) "TV 101" is now just _an­subplots such as computer teaches a television jour­other show investigating dating to keep viewers inter­nalism class to a posse of stu­teenage life. Its episodes are ested. Actually, these absurd Sam Robards (front) stars as a high school ;ournalism dents: Sherman (Andrew now following the same and incoherent subplots are teacher who moves the school newspaper into the Cassesse), the traditional course as a great deal of probably the producer's way video age on "TV 101" class "geek," Marty (Stuart other shows. In fact, "TV of keeping the other actors Goddard), a crippled com­101" seems to be nothing from realizing that they are show has become a trite, dull Emilio, has quit the show. puter whiz, Chuck (Matthew more than a string of After way in the background com­show lacking the originality Emilio's last appearance will LeBlanc), the wrestler School Specials. pared to the main plotline. of which it so liberally be on March 24. "Rain Man" "muscle head," Amanda The drug addiction plotline The show's cast is very boasted at its start. It's time reigned at Sunday's "People's (Teri Polo), the apple of all has subsided and the now­talented; however, the show "TV 101" takes a crash Choice Awards." The film guys' eyes, and others. trivialized and overdone topic seldom attempts to make use course in "Creativity 101." won Favorite Dramatic Mo­
of teenage pregnancy has its of that talent to enhance the Stay Tuned: Those "Days tion Picture, and Dustin Hof­
The series originally began turn. Lisa Trusel (Melissa, show. It's a rocket of talent of Our Lives" fans who never fman beat Tom Cruise for as a way to show how the stu­"Days of Our Lives") guest never allowed to launch. liked the relationship between Favorite Actor in a Dramatic dents of today become the stars as Jamie, Chuck's now­Originally, "TV 101" was a Jennifer and Emilio will be Motion Picture. Both the film Barbara Walters and Steven pregnant girlfriend. Should show with a new angle and happy to know that Billy Huf­and Hoffman are nominated Spiel bergs of tomorrow. they get married? Should series potential. Now, the sey, the actor who plays for Academy Awards as well. 
Club Tuesday provides relaxing entertainment 
JULIE SHEPHARD cal entertainment, but it also taking a study break,'' said tion. According to Cary, Club accent writer goes a step further by creat­Colleen Cary, Club Tuesday's Tuesday is also hoping to
"It's an outlet 
M 
ing a relaxed atmosphere. director. present stand-up comedians usic often provides a "Club Tuesday is really laid from everyday next year. means for students to back. The lights are low, Also enhancing the charac­St. Mary's Student Govern­

monotony, and it's 
escape the pressure and candles are lit, and students ter of Club Tuesday is the ment established Club Tues­stress of homework. Not only are given the opportunity to emphasis on mellow music. something more to day in 1985 "to provide an does Club Tuesday meet this just sit around and talk while Even though Club Tuesday activity for students during need by featuring live musi-iistening to live music and focuses on relaxing music, do." the week," said Julie Wagner, 
the entertainment does not commissioner of the Student lack diversity. "We try to put teacher of a freshmen eco­Activities Board at St. variety into each show which nomics class. Kennedy Mary's. Although Club Tues­allows students to experience graduated from Notre Dame day originally featured only 
different types of music," as an undergraduate in 1976 local performers, it has now said Cary. and spent two years in Chile reached a larger scale and in the Peace Corps. He also professionals are hired by 
This distinctiveness is ap­said that "the point of music Student Government through parent in each of Club Tues­is fun. I sing because it's a national talent scouts. "Club day's upcoming acts. Tonight riot and I always have fun Tuesday is really for the Club Tuesday features Irish doing it." benefit of the students be­folk singer John Kennedy,_ Other future Club Tuesday cause it promotes a study who will sing "songs that tell acts include Brian Husky on break," says Cary. "Also, it's stories" along with playing April 11 and Stephen Baird on an outlet from everyday such instruments as the April 25. Husky, who plays monotony and it's something guitar, banjo, and harmonica. the acoustic guitar, will per­more to do." "I'm always excited about form songs by James Taylor Club Tuesday is held singing at St. Mary's because and Cat Stevens. Baird, a bimonthly in the parlor of St. they do such a classy job," professional street singer Mary's Haggar Hall at 8:30­said Kennedy, who is a Notre from Boston, plays a multi­11:00 on Tuesday evenings. Dame graduate student in tude of instruments and en­Admission and refreshments economics, as well as a courages audience participa-are free. 
Calvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 
rr'5 ALL itYJ WILLED ME
MY MO"TOR ~! 1\-IE. 
TO BREAK \T.' 'iO\J DID SOME. 

RECE SN~l>!-________, rot/R
FAULi!
1'\CW~~IE 

S\JBLIM\NA-L ~PEllER RR~H TI-\\NG! !)()!'{'\ 
WC1H ~!( -~ ~ ~UGH! DtN~ \1.' I 
KNOW 'iO\J DID.'t/VCJ_/ 1_ 'iO\J MUST HI>.'It~ ' 
:.1·


:~§ I 
~~ 

'-"..../7111.~-3'1 ····~.. ,..." ....... ~ 





--~-~-~~-~-----~ ~----~ ----~~-----~---------~--­
l
Tuesday, March 14, 1989 The Observer page_11 
I 
I 
I 
1st Round: 2nd Round: Reglonals Reglonals 2nd Round: 1st Round: 
March 16-17 March 18-19 March 18-19 March 16-17 

MIDWEST EAST 


G.eorgetown• 
................] 
.. 

FINAL FOUR Seattle, Washington ................•........ 
April1 & 3 
.......................... 
CHAMPIONSHIP GAME 
SOUTHEAST 
Oklahoma• 
Monday, April 3 :::: ~~~t·~~;;. ~t~t~I-La Salle 
·::::::~;~i~i~~~-r~;~l 
Virginia 

F:~:~d:::l···················--.~.-.~.~.-.~.-.~.·.·.~.~.·_·_·_·_1·· 
~~~~~ ,-~nn. ~t~t~~ 
Lexington, Kentucky
Alabama 
March 23 & 25 
....•. ~~t~ ~~~~~~~1···························1 
............~~~:t;~:l-·························· .. 
UCLA ..................1
::.::.::::::.:~~~~~t~t~l· .. 


North Carolina ····-········-.. -·
~~~~~~~;~~;~I ~ 

I
~ ~ (_Princeton ·· Vanderbilt 
········ ...... ·· · ·· · ·{N~tre Dame 
North Carolina State 
....... ~ ~( ~~~~t~ :9~~~;;~~: ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
················~····I ··················( ~~t~~;~·::··· Iowa 
East Rutherford, New Jersey 

Kansas State 
March 24 & 26 

·················-l·~~~~~~~;~······· 
·····················1::·· 

·····-~·-·········1::::~:-rd_ 
West Virginia 
··················(_;~~n.e_s~~~--··· 
Duke 
............ ····1~~~;~.9~~~~:~~-~t~t~ ::. 
WEST 

Arizona• 


··········~·······l~~~~·~~rr;~···· 
St. Mary's • Calif. 
··················fg;~~~·~~··············· 
Memphis State ~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~;·········· .... 
Nevada-Las Vegas
··················-r·--................~~r~d~h~_:: ··~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
Denver, Colorado 

Oregon State 
March 23 & 25 

········~-h~~~-~~;1:1~:.:····· 
Seton Hall
···········r····---······· 

.... h::~,-~:~~~~;:~t~t~_:·· 
Texas-EI Paso ············ ·· ·····l~o·u·i~i~~~-~;~t~···· 
Indiana 
···················f~~;~~~~~~;;·::··· 
AP Graphic/ R. Dominguez
'first place seeding 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday'. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 









Classifieds 

NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 2B7-40B2 Typln!JWordprocesslng 237-1949  LOST:FUGI CAMERA WITH FLASHeFILM My camera was lost at my party on Navarre St. Friday night. Please return it and if you absolutely have to have it, please return the the film. No ~uestions will be asked. Please return ~!!! Call Tim at 2BB-0426 or 288-5423 LOST:FUGI CAMERA WITH FLASHeFILM  RIDE NEEDED to Nashville lor Easter Will share expenses.Call Christina 239­7424 ATTENTION-HIRING! Government Jobs-your area. $17,840-$69,485. Call 1-602-838-8885, EXT R-6262. Need ride lor 2 to ST LOUIS for Easter Break. Will help pay expenses. Call Pete  SUMMER JOBS TO SAVE ENVIRON­MENT EARN $2500-3500. National campaign positions to pass clean air act, stop toxic pollution, tighten pesticide con­trols & promote comprehensive recy­cling, available In 18 states & D.C. Call Kate at 1-800-622-2202.  PARTY w' The BACKSTREET Blues Band this Tues. at Center Street Blues, 100 Center, and McCormick's Coney Is­land on Wednesday. DOUG D.-­1 LOVE YOU NOT ONLY FOR WHAT YOU ARE, BUT FOR WHAT I AM WHEN I AM WITH YOU... ITS BEEN A WONDERFUL TWO  COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: Out­standing brothenlster sports camps on largest lake In New England near "ON GOLDEN POND" site seek staff. ALL TRAVEL PAID. Csll Collect: Roblndel (girls) 215--884-3326, Wlnaukee (boys) 203-227-4387 or see us on Thurs., Mar. 30, 10:30 ~M-2PM et Lafortune.  
NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks lor CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK BOB Howard St. just off of N.D.  LOST:CLADDAGH RING lrom Ireland. GREAT sentimental value to me. 11th lloor LIBRARY Wed eve.3"1, 11 pm. PLEASE contact Terry at X4010 or drop in mail to 71 B Grace.  # 1142. FOR SALE  Lou Holtz: Hear no evil see no evil. KISS SOMEONE AT AUGUSTA'S "KISS ME I'M IRISH BASH"  YEARS. HAPPY ANNIVERSARY! --MARY GOOD LUCK TODAY CHARLIE  Ramada Inn of Elkhart has rooms lor Graduation weekend. Minimum stay 2 nights with $100 deposit per room. Send leiter to 3011 Belvedere Rd., Elkhart, IN 46514 or Call219-262-1581.  
Ave.(walking distance lrom campus) ph. 233-2342 IRISH GARDENS IS LOOKING FOR ANYONE INTER· ESTED IN APPLYING FOR THE POSITIONS OF MANAGER OR ASST. MANAGER FOR 1989-1990 COME BY THE SHOP FOR AN APPU­ FOUND: BRACELET AT SMC JR FOR­MAL HAD BROKEN CLASP. CALL 283­2029 (WHILE AGO, HUH.) Found: one electronics textbook and two earings at South Dining Hall, talk to Claudine. LOST: VCR TAPES. Monty Python's Holy Grail, The Running Man, Strange Brew, and others. If found, please call  Taste Mom's cooking for Easter. Roundtrip airline ticket to Philadelphia lor sale. Leave 423, return 427. Call Sally at 35n. ELECTRIC GUITAR Kramer Strlker,blue,3 plckup,whamy ex-c.con,wtase 23Gbst Jim 2017  MARCH 16, 9PM TO lAM SMC CLUBHOUSE--21 ID CALL YOUR FRIENDS IN AUGUSTA FOR TICKETS OR # 5341-$4.00 BUSINESS MAJORS!!! Gain valuable work experience The Observer Is now hiring lor the fol­ BROWN!! (OR IS IT LINUS?) I LOVE YOU! LOVE, LUCY FAMOUS FLORIDA QUOTES--1) Jodi! JodiI 2) 30 seconds 3)Are you ready for our date tonight? 4)Hey, you're Caroline the erotic dancer 5) Heidi drinks 6) Ba· sically; actually; I think 7) I don't...do you? B) I think our friend Margar~a is being  Thoughts lrom a spring break: Did you know that one in five rapes turns into a date?-the stat god Temptation is the root of all lun Mike-taking the lead in identifying, ex­periencing, and becoming part of the local problems All in all a great time, we would not have swapped w~h anyone. BB and the luture president  - 
CATION Prolessor Timothy O'Meara will respond to "Should Notre Dame Become the Princeton or the Harvard of the Midwest" on Wednesday, March 15, at 7 p.m. at St. Edward's Hall. Make plans now to be there lor this talk.  Mark at 2113-1409 or return tapes to Room 912 Flenner Hall. No questions asked. Reward. LOST: PI-of maroon luggage with gray piping (Leisure) carryon bag. Lost Sunday AM at Campusvlew Apts. parking lot. Call 272-9903.  TICKETS DESPARATE, I need 2 Grad Tix. will pay $ please call Tim 2B7-7807  lowing possltlons: Accounts Payable Manager Accounta R-lvable Manager Purchasing Manager Payroll Manager Submit your resume at The Observer Office, Third Floor LaFortune, to Mic­helle Soper by 5 p.m., Tuesday, March  raped 9) Hey Liz, let's rent some bikes 10) Get your right hand off of that. FREE FUN FLICK!II Wednesday Night DARBY O'GILL AND THE LmLE PEOPLE Come get in the sprint of St. Patrick's day with us at THEODORE'S!!! Doors open at B:OO Movie begins at B:15  TOP 20 QUOTES FROM THE '"TRIP FROM HELL":1.Get it up!2.Really,l could not lind the hotei!3.Jen was a page in Washington!4.There was a beer in his pants!5.Are you locked out ol your room,or what?6.EEEASY!7.Yes, 'Olfi­cer,they were with us all nita! B.lt's alrigh1­ 
Photographers needed Amateu..prolesslonal lor Australia. National Institute of Exploration June 20-July 13. Cost $3,300 Call Bruce 219-733-2170 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009.  LOST at LyonS'Oillon Fonnal. Grey Tweed Men's Jacket. Call Christina 239­7424. FOR RENT HOUSE NEAR CAMPUS AVAILABLE FOR RENT UNTIL AUGUST. 232-3616.  PERSONALS SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-8()()-343-8373  14, 1989 Call 239-5303 or 2113-2668 II you have any questions SCRUBSII SCRUBSII SCRUBS!! Jade green tops and bottoms! Call Tam­my, 284-5134 *****SENIORS***** IRISH BAND THURSDAY  APPLICATIONS ARE DUEl Oon't forget-SUB Commissioner Ap­plications lor next year are due TODAY. HEY BETH PETERSON!!! Happy 25th....er, uh, 20th (!) to the "SWISS MISS" in the mini-masher! Only 364 days 'til you can resume U.S. citizenship on the weekends, Beth!!  they're all passed out!9.Did someone say BONE?lO.Ws only 3 blocks away!11.Tum off that Godforsaken solar emitter!12.The Drink From HELL!13.1 have a bigger chest!14.Deb has a nice ass & Dave is a stallion!15.You're so cute when you yaki16.HEY Pink Shirt!17. So,Michelle,how's Sorin?1 B.Sneaky Pete-feels like a second skinl19. we've joined the Century Club!20.1 could love _ you and I could love you for hours!  
PARROT HEADS FOREVER \ LOST/FOUND LOST-BLACK CUMMERBUND AT TAl­MILITARY FORMAL!! call BRET x13B9 FOUND:SCARF IN EIGHT FLOOR SEM­INAR ROOM OF LIBRARY ON THURSDAY FEB 23. CALL x1900 TO CLAIM  WANTED ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT FISHERIES. Earn $600¢'\lleek in can­nery. $B,OOQ-12,000¢ lor two months on lishing vessel. Over B,OOO openings. No experience necessary. MALE OR FEMALE For 52-page employment book­let, send $6.95 to M&L Research, Box  hlag SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1·801l-343-8373 ADOPTION Loving,secure married couple unable to conceive seek to adopt. Can pay le­gal,medical exp. Pis call collect Chris &  MARCH 16 ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB ST. PATRICK'S CELEBRATION •·--sENIORs••••• THE SWEET THING  To the blonde, bronze goddess from Daytona....a.k.a. BETH PETERSON!!! Happy 20th, Beth! We aDOOR you! Love, ~ Jules and 'Chelle HAPPY BIRTHDAY. BETH PETER­SON!!!! Stop by 309 Farley to wish Beth a happy birthday and see THE LIZARD shed her skin....literallyll ICE CUBE  VOTE JOHN DICE FOR UMOC This year he's going for it all!! TO THE BLONDE ('NGLASSES) FROM KNOTT WHO CAME UP TO SAY HI WITH A FRIEND FRIDAY NIGHT AT RAZZLE'S IN DAYTONA BEACH . WHERE CAN I FIND YOU?-ND SWEAT­SHIRT THE SWEET THING PARROT HEADS FOREVER  
LOST-A  MODERN,  SILVER  WATCH  84008, Seattle, WA 9B124. 30 day, un­conditional, 100% money back guarantee  Susan, 70:¥.!76-9751 fidential.  Completely con­ SKYDIVING season begins Apr 1 II In­ ICE CUBE  Kirsten,  ....:.·  
WITH BLUE TOPAZ FRIDAY NIGHT. COULD HAVE BEEN FOUND IN DILLON OR THE ELK'S CLUB. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL JEN AT 2550. REWARD WILL BE GIVEN.  $35MIAY PROCESSING PHONE OR­DERS PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPE­RIENCE NECESSARY. CALL (REFUNDABLE) 315-733-6083 EXTEN­SION P-2382-H. CRUISESHIP JOBS  ADOPTION-Caring, linancially secure couple of Irish and Swedish ancestry wish to love, cherish, and raise your new­born child. Legal and conlidential. Please call Linda and Craig COLLECT: 212-Bn· 3574  terested call DEAN 287-3024 THE SWEET THING Harsh--it's not a dog!  The quest for a 42-X-Long. .. Robin Hood-Nothing like break in the Big, Bad, Beautiful 'Bend! -Almost like Sherwood Forest. .. -Max Marion  Congrats on R.A. -you deserve it! Love, K-~-~?X...................................................... JEN,  
$300 TO $900 WEEKLY  Remember walking down Michigan Ave­ 
CALL LINDA 9-5 WEEKDAYS  1-612­ Scaplll (Use it)  The St. Edward's Hall Forum will feature  nue lreshman year and planning our lu­ 
LOST: Women's official class ring, unan­ 456-0884 EXT. C-40BO  Prolessor and Provost Timothy O'Meara  ADOPT: Happily married, prolaulonal  tures? -I'm so happy pari of ~ is really  
tiqued gold ~iamond stone, in black ring  SOPHOMORE  speaking on "Should Notre Dame Be­ couple wishes to provide wonderful  coming true -­CONGRATS on your jobl  
box. It was both my graduation and 21st  Ride needed to CINCINNATI vicinity. Will  SOPHOMORES  come the Princeton or the Harvard of the  home, secure future, much love for  
birthday  gift--PLEASE  CALL  w'any  share expenses. Call Melissa (after 6pm)  Spring Formal is coming soon...Apri 8.  Midwest" Wednesday, March 15, at 7  white newborn. Legal. Expen-paid.  Love,  
inlonnatloni--Michelle X3820  at34n.  Get a datal  p.m. in the first floor lounge ol St. Ed's.  C.ll ua collect 212-517-2696.  Kate  


---~--------­

-~------------~----------~~-------­
page 12 The Observer Tuesday, March 14, 1989 

SEVEN TASTY WAYS 



•••..,. 

Mon. 

r··················----,

I MONDAY MADNESS! I :r··--------------------, 
1 THICK THURSDAY! ­
Get One Small : : Get One Medium Pan _PizzaCheese and Pepperoni Pizza: 

1 loaded with extra cheese, Offervalidonly FOR ONLY 1 : pepperoni, and thick crust 
on Moday, 1 

It's a pizza lover's dream come true. Every 1 Offer valid only One offer per I
sa 
day this week. you can get a special offer 1 on Thursday. ~~~ FOR ONLY
.. 
99 from Domino's Pizza~ Whether it's free extra I Onde oCuffer per • . $5 00 
. h , 1 or er. stomer •
·~ crust or a free smaII cheese p1zta, t ere s 1 pays sales tax. : . ®i:f::all·. JM~-j[ I 
locations, ® 1W~1J.,__;..-I more reasons to make this the week for a 1 Valid a~ listed ~
ml ·~· 

Expire,.· · ~ I special treat from Domino's Pizza. So why I locations. ~~..,
3-31-89 I 1

not give us a call? In 30 minutes or less, 3-31-89 .;:;.--:-­
~ r ••••••••••••••••••••••••
you'll see why this is the week you've been
·----------------------· waiting for. 




Tues. Fri.
Call Now! 
Notre Dame 


r·········-------------, 277-2151 Ir··--------------------,
TERRIFIC TUESDAY! 1 WACKY WEEKEND! I
1835 South Bend Ave. 

I ® I 
Get Two Medium Pizzas : 1 Get 6 Icy Cold Cokes 1 
-WHh your choice of up to seven : : with any pizza purchase : toppings -single portions only. 1 : Offer ~aJid only FOR ONLy : 
on Fnday and
1 1
Offer valid only Ill FOR ONLY : Saturday. One 
99¢
on Tuesday. One • -1 offer per order. ~~~ I

1 

Customer • I
~~~:~ .. $9 99 I 
DOMINO'S I pays sales tax. · I sales tax. Valid • · ® • : PIZZA I Valid at listed : . ~~... I atliated ~ 1 I locations. :::;_~li#~ I1 locations. ~A>:...U.: ~~ 1 DELIVERS' I Expires: ·pr;v--~ I I Expires: 3-31-89 ~v~. I I 3-31-89 I
FREE. 

·----------------------·
·----------------------· 

Weds. Sun. Sat.
-r····-----~------------, r··--------------------, Ir··--------------------,I
WACKY WEEKEND!
SUNDAY DOUBLE :
: WILD WEDNESDAY! : 

: Get 6 Icy Cold Cokes® . : : Get Two Small Pizzas : FEATURE! : 
I : with any pizza purchase · : : With Any Topping : Get Two Small Cheese Pizzas 1 
I II Offer villld only FOR OA'LY : 
I Offer valid only FOR ONLy : Offervalldonly FOR ONLY on Friday and tv. 
on Sunday. One • I I 1


Ill 99,.
Saturday. One
I
offer per order. ·
: o2x.W.~~:r~t $5 99 $4 49
I I
Customer pays • •

I order. CJJstome-r II • -I sales tax. Valid • · ® I 1: off~~~:er. ~~-~" :I 
I pays sales tax. ~ I pays sales tax.
I

I Valid at listed • ':a~~ I at listed ""~~-I Valid at listed • V-H8,.,;_~ I 
I . locations. • · ® -~ I locations. ~A~~"':~.Q~ ~ s~ I I. locations. • · ® . ~~ I I Expires: 3-31-89 :;_),#y-I Expires: 3-31-89 ~~ I I Expires: ~ I
I rV""' ~ . . I I 

I 3-31-89 I 
::;.:-··----~-------------.. ·----------------------· ·--------------------~ 
The Observer page 13 


AP Photo The Fighting lllini of Illinois are the top seed in the Midwest Region of the NCAA Tournament. The lllini, runners-up to Indiana in the Big Ten, face McNeese State in the first round. 

Your education will not end with graduation. As a graduate nurse at Rochester Methodist Hospital, you will receive a comprehensive twelve-week long orientation where you will further develop your professional skills. Beyond orientation, you will have the challenges and the growth opportunities that a world-class medical center can provide. 
Graduate Nurses apply now for positions available in 1989. Starting salary $26,228. Attractive benefit package. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital is an 800-bed Mayo Foundation Hospital. Choose challenge. Choose growth. Choose Rochester Methodist Hospital. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital, Personnel Services, Nursing Recruitment Section, 201 West Center Street, Rochester, MN 55902, (507) 286-7091 (Collect). 
Rochester Methodist Hosrital 

A MAYO FOUNDATION HOSPITAL An Equal Opportunity Employer  
HONEY ROCK  HIGH RO/\D  
YOUTH CAMPS. RETREATS AND LEADERSHIP SCHOOLS  WILDERNESS PROGRAMS fOR LEADERSHIP uovooLurMC·I  

NORTHWOODS CAMPUS OF WHEATON COLLEGE 
i\\:J~" Fun, le!!t 
~are all part of a~{b 
summer at Honey Rock 


along with: 
*Spiritual Challenge and Growth *Leadership Skills Development *Teaching /Youth Ministry 
*Gamping /Wilderness Trips 
*Skiing I Horse-back Riding 
*College and Graduate Credit 

....~~.S.CH•~-~_~:_~_~~.p.~O.~.~~.~.~.A~.~.\.·I.~O_I~.TA•C•T---•Ovist•~-~-~~·
•... 


Tourney 
continued from page 20 
Except for Lon Kruger and Clem Haskins, almost every coach playing a mystery team in a first-round game in the NCAA basketball can sing the same refrain: "who are these guys?" 
It was stated most bluntly by Coach Ralph Miller of 21-7 Oregon State, for whom every game could be his last. Miller, whose Beavers are the sixth seed in the West regional, turned 70 last Thursday and is retiring after this season. 
"We absolutely know nothing about Evansville," he said 


Irish 
continued from page 20 
'"That's the kind of thing that happens in college basketball," Crum said when asked how El­lis' injury affected the outcome off the game. "It's frustrating when you can't go with your best kids." 
The game marked another quiet performance by Keith Robinson, who led the team with 18 points and 16 rebounds in Notre Dame's final home game of the season. 
The Irish took to the road in what Phelps described as Notre Dame's version of a con­ference tournament. On Mon­day, March 6, Notre Dame faced Butler in Indianapolis and scored its 19th win of the season with a 76-69 win despite a late surge by the Bulldogs. 
Playing without Ellis, the Irish were ahead by as many after finding ·out that his first­round opponent in Tucson Friday will be the 24-5 Purple Aces, champion of the Midwes­tern Collegiate Conference. 

"But we'll know something soon." 
The top seeds face the same problems, but should breeze through their games. Since the current 64-team format was es­tablished in 1985, the highest seeds to lose in the first round were Indiana to Cleveland State and Notre Dame to Arkansas-Little Rock in 1986. Indiana and Notre Dame were third seeds in their regions, the victors were 14th. 
This year's top four-­Georgetown in the East, Illi­
as 19 points in the second half and led 71-55 with two minutes to go, but Butler took advan­tage of Irish turnovers and missed free throws to make the game exciting, scoring 11 straight to pull to within six. 
Elmer Bennett and Jamere Jackson hit two free throws apiece to break the Bulldog streak and put the win in the books. 
Jackson led the Irish with 17 points, and Robinson again led the team in rebounds with 13. 
To ensure a sixth-straight 20­win season, the Irish had to travel to Milwaukee to face Marquette March 8. Backed by an inspired crowd, the War­riors were looking to avenge an earlier 83-68 loss at Notre Dame's Joyce ACC. 
That wasn't meant to be, as the Irish again had to scramble in the closing minutes but defeated Marquette 67-63. Al­though playing their second straight game without Ellis, 

ATTENTION: Grad Students, Professors, Employees 
MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Less than 1 0 minutes from campus 

Offers 

* 
Pool, Clubhouse • locked intercom entrances 

* 
Washer & dryer in each apartment • flexible leases 



( also -furnished executive suites ) call for details-277-3731 


(QUAl HOUSING 
IX'POflT1J NrTY 
~~<!i'M'<•"%•~:-c:e;•x;~.:<x•:!~~-;.-.;:::~-.~~.;;:~wic~:.c:;;·>.a.x:r•r.;:~ 
I FACULTY AND STAFF ­
i Low Impact Aerobics I
I 
I
I Early Bird Special k 6:45 -7:30a.m. Mon. 0 Wed. 
l 
II ~ Class Begi·n March 13! I Clas;~~~~J~~f:J ~~ ~~!5]ACC fee $5 half semester 
~ 
. 
nois in the Midwest, Oklahoma in the Southeast and Arizona in the West--begin play as prohi­bitive favorites. 
Georgetown, whose domi­nant play in the Big East tourn­ament has made it the early favorite to win the overall title, meets Ivy League champion Princeton Friday in Provi­dence in a matchup that might have been more intriguing a year ago when Hoya Coach John Thompson's son played for the Tigers. 
Illinois will play in In­dianapolis Thursday against McNeese State, whose 16-13 record is the worst of any team in the tournament. 
Phelps' squad overcame the balanced Warrior attack and were led by Joe Fredrick's 20 points. 
In a game that saw the lead change hands numerous times, Jackson hit a baseline jumper with 2: 39 to play to tie the game at 61. Marquette's Trevor Powell answered with two of his 19 points to put the Warriors back on top, but Jackson again countered, this time hitting two foul shots to tie the game 63-63. 
Powell followed with a miss, and Jackson gave the Irish the lead for good with a penetrat­ing jump shot with 49 seconds to play. Robinson iced the vic­tory for the Irish with two free throws with three seconds to go. 
Notre Dame celebrated the return of Ellis against DePaul Saturday, but mourned the ab­sence of co-capitan Fredrick, who missed the trip to the Horizon with a sprained ankle suuffered late in Friday's prac­tice. The absence of their leading scorer was felt by the Irish, who fell to the Blue Demons 67-63. 
Terrence Greene and Stanley Brundy scored 21 and 20 points respectively for DePaul, which led by nine at the half, 40-31, and increased the lead to 54-38 with jst over five minutes gone in the second half. 
Over the next 10 minutes, the Irish battled their way back into the game, cutting the lead to 66-64 with 3: 53 to play. DePaul freshman Stephen Howard was the clutch per­former for the Demons, hitting five-of-six free throws in the final minutes to ensure that the Irish could get no closer. 
"We fought and scratched our way back and had a chance to win it," Phelps said. "That's what we have to do in the tourn­ament." 
The Irish players will have some time to heal, as they play at 9: 30 Friday night against the Commodores. A win in that game would pit the Irish against the winner of Sunday's Georgetown-Princeton contest. The Hoyas are the top seed in the East Regional. 

,~--5-U_M_M-ER_C_A_M_P--~ 
I POSITIONS 
~ Counselors: 21+, coed, :.·_',',·..·.:·• sleepaway camp, Mass. 
~ Berkshires. WSI, arts & crafts, tennis, all land and
I
~~ water sports, drama,
1 gymnastics, piano/play for 

~ ~~~~~raphi~da,cam~~~~~:
s nature, wilderness, modeli rocketry, guitar, yearbook, ~ woodworking, RN, typist, 
._W_:_i:-~-:~cc-~-~-~·-~~_:n_~-~-·~-1-~-·~__. 
Tuesday, March 14, 1989
The Observer
page 14 
Arizona stays on top, Hoyas, 
Associated Press from second to fourth. votes and 1,155 points. The Arizona, 27-3, top seed in the Hoyas are 26-4. Arizona held the top spot for West Regional, received 46 Illinois, 27-4, top seed in the the third straight week as the first-place votes and 1,219 Midwest after capping its 
top four teams in the final As­points from the nationwide season with an impressive 89-73 
sociated Press college basket­panel of sports writers and victory over Michigan, was ball poll were the same teams broadcasters after winning the named No. 1 on three ballots the NCAA seeded Nos. 1-4 in its Pac-10 championship with a 73-and had 1,121 points. 
tournament. 51 victory over Stanford. Oklahoma, 28-5, received 989 
Georgetown and Illinois each points. moved up a spot for second and Georgetown, the Big East The rest of the Top Ten was third, while Oklahoma, which champion after beating North Carolina, Missouri, lost 98-86 to Missouri in the Big Syracuse 88-79 and top seed in Syracuse, Indiana, Duke and 
Eight championship game, fell the East, got 13 first-place Michigan. 


Illinois 
North Carolina, the Atlantic Coast Conference champions after a 77-74 victory over Duke, and Missouri each jumped four places from last week. The Tar Heels, 27-7, had 976 points; The Tigers, 27-7, had 875. 
Syracuse, 27-7, Indiana, 25-7, Duke, 24-7, and Michigan, 24-7, each dropped two places. The Orangemen had 863 points, and the Hoosiers had 834. Duke had 808 points, and Michigan had 666 to round out the Too Ten. 

move up 
Seton Hall led the Second Ten for the second straight week, followed by Louisville, Stan­ford, Iowa, Nevada-Las Vegas, Florida State, West Virginia, Ball State, North Carolina State and Alabama. 
The Crimson Tide, 23-7, was the only new member of the Top Twenty and the Southeas­tern Conference champions replaced St. Mary's, Calif., which dropped out despite not playing any games last week. 


New York Cztv Seattle $99 roundtrip $99 roundtrip 
RJrt Lauderdale $99 roundtrip 

Aspecial offer for students,


only for Atilerican Express·Cardmembers. 



Ifyou want to go places, it's time for the American Express® Card. 
Because now you can take advantage of new travel privileges on Northwest Airlines onlyforfull-time students who carry the American Express Card 
Travel privileges that offer: -~ 7Wo $99 roundtrip tickets-fly to many of NORTI-IWEST the more than 180 cities served by North-AIRLINES west in the contiguous 48 United States. LOOK 10 us Only one ticket may be used per six-month period. 
SpecialQuarterlyNorthux?st Destination Discounts 
throughout1969-up to 25% offmost available fares. 
5,000 bonus miles in Northwest's WORillPER.KS~ free travel program-where only 20,000 miles gets 
you afree roundtrip ticket to anywhere Northwest flies in the contiguous 48 United States or Canada-upon 

enrollment through this special student offer 
And, of course, you'll enjoy all the exceptional benefits and personal service you would expect from American Express. 
The only requirements for privileged travel: you must be aCardmember, you must be afull-time stu­dent, and you must charge your Northwest Airlines tickets with the Card.* 
Getting the Card is easier than ever because now you can apply by phone. just calll-800-942-AMEX. We'll take your application and begin to process it right away. What's more, with our Automatic 
Approval offers, you can qualify now while you're still in school. 
Apply now. Fly later -for less. 


Apply Now: 1-800-942-AMEX 

*Fare is for roundtrip travel on Northwest Airlines. Tickets must be purchased within 24 hours after making reservations. Fares are non-refundable and no itinerary changes may be 
~~e after purchase. Seats at this fare are limited and may not be available when you call. Travel must be completed by certificate expiration date and may not be available between RElATED cttles to whtch Northwest does not ha~e ~irect connections or routings. City fuel tax surcharges not included in fare from Boston ($2. 50), Chicago ($5.00) and Florida cities ($2.00). SERVICES Certam blackout dates and other restnct10ns may apply. For complete offer detatls, calll-800-942-AMEX. Current student Cardmembers automatically receive two $99 vouchers in the 
AnAmencanE•p<essoompany 
mail.© 1989 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. 



SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's Bookstore Basketball registration and signups are Wednesday, March 15, in Room 002 in the base­ment of LaFortune from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. There is a $5 registration fee. Referees are needed and will be paid $5 per game. Scorekeepers are also needed. Any questions should be directed to Nancy at x3487 or Julie at x2667. -The Observer 
The Sailing Club will hold a meeting tonight at 6:30 
p.m. in O'Shaughnessy room 204. Race team practice will be held each day this week from 3 to 5 p.m. -The Observer 
Sports Talk will air tonight on WVFI-AM 640 from 10 to 11 p.m. Call239-6400 with questions and comments about the NCAA Tournament. -The Observer 
The Rugby Club will open its season at noon Saturday, March 18, against Santa Clara at Stepan Field. Anyone interested in playing should report to practice today through Thursday at 4:15p.m. at Stepan Field. Call Jim at x1776 for more information. -The Observer 
The Squash Club will sponsor the Insilco tournament Monday through Wednesday, March 20-22, in the Joyce ACC. A $5 entry fee includes t-shirt. Registration ends Friday, March 17 in the NVA office. -The Observer 
St. Patrick's Day 4k run signups will be held Thursday, March 16, at 3:30p.m., in the tent on Fieldhouse Mall. All students, faculty and staff may participate. 
-The Observer 
The Notre Dame Porn Pon Squadwill have a short organizational meeting for those interested in trying out for the team on Wednesday, March 15, at 9:30p.m. in the Notre Dame Room on the second floor of LaFortune. Call Julie at x4231 for more information. -The Observer 
The Tae Kwon Do Club is offering a half-semester membership enrollment for $30. Interested students should meet at the Joyce ACC fencing gym Tuesday or Thursday at 8:30p.m. -The Observer 
A scuba diving class will be offered by NVA on Sunday afternoons from 3:30 to 7 p.m. beginning March 19. More information and pre-registration will be at 6:30p.m. Thursday at room 218 of the Rock. -The Observer 
A racquetball tourneywm be held on St. Patrick's Day, Friday, March 17. Two men's and one women's divi­sion will be held. Register before Wednesday, March 15, at 5 p.m. The entry fee is $6. -The Observer 
Season passesat Burke Memorial Golf Course are now available at $60 for students through fall orientation and $140 for staff ($190 family) through November 15. Call the golf shop at 239-6425 for more information. -The Obser­ver 
The Tae Kwon Do Club was represented at the 1989 Indiana State TaeKwonDo Championships March 11 by Hoa Tran. Tran received a silver medal in men's lightweight red belt division. -The Observer 


Fredrick wins MVP at banquet 

Special to The Observer 
Junior guard Joe Fredrick earned the Notre Dame Monogram Club MVP Award at the annual Notre Dame bas­ketball banquet Monday. 
Fredrick earned two awards, as did LaPhonso Ellis, Keith Robinson and Tim Singleton. Jamere Jackson led the team with three awards. 
Jackson received the Best Defensive Player Award and the Father Tom Brennan Award for free-throw ac­curacy. He and Fredrick shared the Captain's Award. 
Ellis won the Most Accurate Shooter Award and shared the Rebounding Award with Rob­inson, who also won the Most Improved Player Award. 
Singleton captured the Assist Leader Award and also won the Role Player of the Year Award. 
Scott Paddock won the Notre 
Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley 
Student-Athlete Award for his 
3.03 cumulative grade point average. 
game. 
"It was a circus-like atmosh­pere, but a great atmosphere to be a part of. There was a lot of publicity for the game, and it was one of the largest mid­
week crowds they've had in a while." 
Grabe struck out 13 Irish bat­ters while giving up three runs in just over seven innings on the mound. Notre Dame starter Brian Piotrowicz overcame early control problems to allow one run in six innings and earn the win . 
"To be honest, I've got to say I did believe we could beat them," said Murphy. "They came at us with probably the number-one pitcher in the na­tion. We hung in there, had timely hitting and believed we could win." 
Irish shortstop Pat Pesavento broke a 1-1 tie in the eighth inning with a single that scored Eilers. Pesavento later scored to give Notre Dame a 3-1 advantage. 
"Pesavento is starting to for­get about his batting average and starting to think about just concentrating on his game, and when he does that, he plays really well," said Murphy. 
After Miami scored a run in the eighth, another Pesavento single drove in Ed Lund with the final run of the game in the ninth. 
Notre Dame stopper Mike Coffey came on in the ninth to record the save. Coffey has al­lowed just one run in six ap­pearances this season and has two wins and three saves to his credit. 
The Irish could not avoid a letdown the following day in an 11-2 loss to Vanderbilt. Fresh­man pitchers Brian Conway and Dan Marzec walked 10 Vanderbilt batters in the game. The Irish had as many errors (four) as they did hits. 
Notre Dame rebounded to win its final two games of the trip. Dan Peltier broke an 8-8 tie with seventh-inning two-run homer to spark the Irish to a 15-8 win over Pennsylvania, which reached the NCAA tournament last year. It was the third game-winning RBI of the year for Peltier, who also had a double and four RBI's. 
The Irish ended the trip with a 9-2 victory over Columbia. 


Kaplan LSAT prep­We plead guilty! 
The first, the biggest, the best. We plead guilty on all counts to giving LSAT candidates like you the finest test preparation possible. 
Every year, Stanley H. Kaplan preps more men and women for the LSAT than anyone else. Why? . . . It's simple! Our teachers are LSAT specialists 
who know what it takes to score. Our research staff keeps you on top of the latest test changes. Our home study pack and audio study lab lets you get as much LSAT practice as you need. 
Want proof1 Call or visit any of our over 130 nationwide locations. Ask about our free repeat policy and our scholarship programs. You'll find the professionalism your future deserves. Beyond the shadow of a doubt. 



I KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCAnONAL CENTER LTD. 
6/12/89 LSAT Prep Class Starts 3/16/89 
KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 
219/272-4135 
Ue~Monday
50' off 14" or 18" meatball sub · 
Two-Buck Tuesday 
Why Not Wednesday? Why not order any cold sub and receive 251 off your. purchase 
Thlrwty Thunday
Pun:hase any sub and receive a large beverage 
FREEl 
Super Sub Sunday Any 14" sub and small ch1ps only $4.99 
~tOth tn•v Spec:lal 
After 10 p.m. order any T' sub, small chips and large beverage for only $4.50 
211-oSUB 

Hits 
continued from page 20 
runs and Jacobs knocking in three. The Irish led the contest 9-1 after two innings. 
Then came the rematch with 
Miami. Ace pitcher Joe Grabe 
started for the Hurricanes, and 
over 3,300 fans crowded 
Miami's Mark Light Stadium 
despite unusually cold temper-
March '14-N.D. LaFortune 6-10 pm 15-N.D. LaFortune 6-10 pm 16-S.M.C. LeMans 5-9 pm 
Don't Forget . 
• 
$70.00 per Bid 

• 
Get measured for Tux 

• 
Buy Flowers 

• 
Arrange Roommates and Dinner Seating 



T 0'5 
Two-Buck Tuesday is Back! 
Get 7" sub for only $2.00 every Tuesday. No coupon necessary 

atures. Notre Dame's sweep last fall and the Irish· football team's win over Miami had Hurricane fans particularly ex­cited about this game. 
"It was like Barnum and Bailey out there," said Murphy. "They weren't really happy to see Notre Dame, and when the saw (Irish football and baseball players) Frank Jacobs and Pat Eilers, they wanted to replay the football 
G 

c 
____.....,______________ 
~ ~ --~-----------­

page 16 The Observer Tuesday, March 14, 1989 


AP Photo No, they're not ballet stars, but Danny Ferry of Duke and Sean Elliot of Arizona are mambers of the Associated Press All-American men's basketball team. 
---·--·-·-·-·-·--------------, 
ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS SEEKING SUMMER EMPLOYMENT IN THE CHICAGO AREA 
Domer Temporaries, Inc. is a new 
temporary employment agency offering 
Notre Dame students job opportunities with 
Notre Dame alumni in the Chicago area. 
Students are guaranteed good jobs at i 
quality rates. All paper work is handled by 
I 

Domer Temporaries. Special skilils such as 1 word processing;typing, accounting, I 
b kk i 
00 eeping, and office experience are in i great demand. If interested, please call. ' 0 T · 1 I 
omer emporanes, nc. I 283-2320 I 
i 1 
'--··--------------·-------·· 



Seniors lead All-Americans, but LSU frosh is the surprise 
Associated Press 
Seniors Sean Elliott, Danny Ferry, Stacey King and Sher­man Douglas. Make room for one more freshman All­American: Chris Jackson of Louisiana State. 
Jackson, college basketball's all-time freshman scoring leader, became only the second player of his class to make The Associated Press All-America team, announced Monday. 
He was joined by Arizona's Elliott, the only repeater on the first team, Duke's Ferry, Okla­homa's King and Syracuse's Douglas. 
The voting was done by the same national panel of sportwriters and broadcasters which selects the weekly Top Twenty. Each voter selected three teams with points dis­tributed on a 5-3-1 basis. 
Elliott, the 51st player to repeat as an All-America in the 41 years a team has been se­lected, was the top vote-getter with 324 points and was named on the first team by 63 voters, just edging Ferry, 318 and 61, and King, 316 and 60. 
The second team was com­prised of seniors Pervis Ellison of Louisville, Glen Rice of Mic­higan, Mookie Blaylock of 
NIT 
continued from page 20 
season bid in her senior year." Notre Dame, who oeat Evansville 75-66 Friday night 
toadvancetothechampionship
game, joins DePaul (22-8), San Diego State (24-8), Radford (23­6), Toledo (21-6), Murray State 
(21-8), Oregon (19-10) and Richmond (24-6") in the NIT fiel~yola, despite tying Notre Dame for the MCC regular­seasontitle,failedtoqualifyforeither the NCAA or the NIT tournament. McGraw pointed to Notre Dame's 2-1 record against the Lady Ramblers this 
season and the difficulty of its schedule as crucial factors in the selection process. 
"They (the NIT selection committee) don't normally take two teams from one con-
Oklahoma and Charles Smith of Georgetown, and sophomore Jay Edwards of Indiana. 
The third team was seniors Todd Lichti of Stanford and George McCloud of Florida State, juniors Hank Gathers of Loyola Marymount, the na­tion's leading scorer and rebounder, and Lionel Sim­mons of La Salle, and freshman 
center  Alonzo  Mourning  of  
Georgetown.  
Jackson  is  the  nation's  
second-leading  scorer  at  30.1  

per game, a mark that will break the freshman standard of 29.4 set by Fly Williams of Austin Peay in 1973. Jackson's 932 points are already a fresh­man best and he has also managed 3.3 rebounds and 4.2 assists per game while facing a variety of defenses aimed at stopping LSU's most noted player since Pete Maravich. 
The 6-foot-8 Elliott, the Pac­lO's all-time leading scorer, leads the top-ranked Wildcats in scoring at 22.0 and assists at 
4.2 and is second in rebounding at 7.0. He is considered the per­fect swingman, switching easily from the forward to the guard position. 
"A year ago when he was playing with a veteran club, a great deal was required of Sean then but nothing like the load he's had this year," Wildcats coach Lute Olson said. "It's great to see this kind of recognition for a guy who in my opinion is the ultimate team player." 
Ferry has already been to Final Four with the Blue Devils and the 6-10 forward averaged a team-leading 22.7 points and 
7.4 rebounds while handing out 
3.0 assists per game. He is the only Atlantic Coast Conference player to ever amass 2,000 points, 900 rebounds and 480 as­sists. 
"Danny is probably the most high-profile player to come to Duke in the last decade," Blue Devils coach Mike Krzyzewski said. "He's exceeded my ex­pectations on the court and off the court I think he's probably been the most publicized Duke student in the past decade. I think he has earned the honors coming his way." 
King, a powerful inside player at 6-10, suffered a bro­ken index finger on his shooting hand midway through the season but it failed to deter from registering averages of 
26.3 points and 10.0 rebounds per game while blocking 70 shots and shooting 52.3 percent from the field. 
Player of the Year Heidi Bunek their conference. to a knee injury just six games "It shows what kind of pride into the season, struggled with the players have in Notre their confidence in the early Dame and in themselves. They going and finally overcame came back and finished strong­these problems to finish atop ly." 

Tuesdays • 
A G t D t t
rea ay 0 IDee Your Friends at ChiChi's 
ference like ours," said the 'Wlltll:lltll:lltii:Jitii:Jitll:li:IIJI:IIJI:IIJI:IIJI:IIJ~::KJ~=-::~~=-::~EJCIEJCII:EII:EII:Eic.:~~c.:~~'EJI'EII~ 
second-year Irish coach. "Since we won the (MCC) tournament and the NCAA wasn't going to look at us anyway, that kind of ruled Loyola out. When they took us for the NIT, that pretty much eliminated them from conten­tion for the NIT. 
"We lost to Vanderbilt, Old Dominion, Tennessee and James Madison. They're all going to the tournament, so the NCAA looks at those as good losses." 
McGraw admitted that Notre Dame probably didn't deserve to go to the NCAA tournament this year, but she questioned the reasoning behind a couple of the selections, particularly those concerning Big East teams. 
"I didn't think we deserved to get an NCAA bid until I saw the field," she said. "The Big East is not a very strong con­ference for women, they don't have any teams in the Top 20 and yet the NCAA took three of their teams. 
Nevertheless, the NIT tourn­ament marks a fitting conclu­sion to a season in which the Irish lost MCC preseason 







Congratulations 
"High"
Mike Noone 

Four Year Bengal Bouts Champ 
Love, Mom, Dad, l!i John 
The Observer page 17 
Lewis wins '89 lnterhall title behind second-half surge 

By KEN TYSIAC Sports Writer 
The Lewis Rebels used tena­cious defense and good outside shooting to defeat the Breen­Phillips Blitz and claim the Wo­men's Interhall Basketball crown before Spring Break. Mter a very tight first half in the championship game, the Rebels ran away from B.P. in the second half to win a 45-29 victory. 
In the opening minutes of the game, however, B.P. took con­trol, using their height advan­tage to dominate the boards and forge an 8-2 lead. The Rebels quickly struck back, however, and by the time the first quarter ended Lewis led 13-12. 
But as long as Lora Mangan, who had 10 points in the first quarter, stayed hot, B.P. stuck with the Rebels. A steal and layup by Lewis senior point guard Ellen Mouch at the buz­zer helped Lewis open up a 22­
17 lead after a tightly contested first half. The championship hopes of 
B.P. were doomed to fall just short, as Lewis turned on the afterburners in the second half. The Rebel fast break proved to be too much for Breen-Phillips to handle and a Lewis defensive adjustment held Mangan to just two points after halftime as the Rebels dominated the second half. 
A balanced attack was in­strumental in the Lewis vic­tory. Mouch and Lori Ciccone scored nine points each for the Rebels, while Sue Lippa pitched in eight. 
Lewis simply had too many weapons for B.P. to handle and the Blitz had trouble finding their offense after Lewis shut down Mangan in the second half. 
Mangan, who is only a fresh­man, led all scorers with 15 points, while Cynthia Guckien chipped in six for the Blitz. Mter the game, B .P. coach Jeff Heilert said, "We got beaten by a very well-disciplined team. We congratulate Lewis on their victory." 
Lewis coaches Tom Zidar and Mark Laboe said they were "very proud of our team. Our girls played with a lot of poise, and shot very well from the foul line." Indeed, the Rebels put on a foul shooting clinic, hitting 16 out of 17 from the charity stripe. 
"We had to make an adjust­ment on defense to stop Lora Mangan," said Zidar and Laboe. "We used a sagging man-to-man defense and tried to triple-team her in order to slow her down. 
"Ellen Mouch gave us great senior leadership," continued Laboe, "And we just meshed really well as a team at the end of the season. We worked well against the zone defense B.P. threw at us, and although we weren't the biggest team in the league, we were fortunate to come out on top." 

Lewis Hall won the 1989 women's interhall championship with a second half surge over Breen-Phillips. The Rebels continue to rack up the championships, having won the IH footbal title last fall. 





PHILIP AGEE 
1956 Notre Dame Graduate and Former CIA Agent ON CAMPUS Wednesday, March 15 8:00pm in Washington Hall 
In 1969, after 12 years with the CIA, Agee became disallusioned with its covert activities and resigned. One year later he began work on his first book, Inside the Company: CIA Diary, which exposed many CIA undercover operations and agents in Latin America. Under pressure from 
U.S. 
government officials, 5 NATO countries banned Agee and his family from their borders. After 15 years in exile, Agee was allowed back in the 

U.S. 
in 1987. He is currently doing a lecture tour and promoting his sixth and most recent book, The CIA for Beginners, due out this year. 


"I have nothing but disdain for Philip Agee. [He is] disgraceful and dispicable for blowing the cover of people who served their country ... " 

-George Bush President of the United Sates, 1987 "Philip Agee was not only morally entitled to expose the CIA, he had a legal duty to do so under the Nuremburg Principals." 
-Sean MacBride Former U.S Assistant Secretary 
See and Hear Philip Agee this Wednesday at 8 :oo pm in Washington Hall. Admission is free. Limited seats available. 
Canadian drug trial continues 
Associated Press 
TORONTO --Canadian 
sprinter Angella Taylor Is­
sajenko confirmed testimony 
of Ben Johnson's track coach 
when she told a federal drug 
inquiry Monday that she got 
steroids from other athletes, in­
cluding former U.S. shotput 
champion Brian Oldfield. 
Issajenko testified that she 
started taking steroids 10 years 
ago ''to give me the extra edge 
I needed." 
Besides getting steroids from . Oldfield and others, Issajenko 
said she also got them from Los 
Angeles physician Robert 
Kerr, who wrote the book "The 
Practical Use of Anabolic 
Steroids with Athletes." 
Issajenko spoke of "hot 
shots" and "pyramids" of 
steroids and read from her 
diary in which she kept a 
detailed record of her training 
and use of banned substances. 
She was the first athlete to 
appear before the track and 
field hearings, called by the 
commission formed after 
Johnson was stripped of his 
Olympic gold medal for a pos­
itive steroid test last Septem­
ber. 
Charlie Francis, her coach as 
well as Johnson's, had named 
Issajenko during eight days of 
dramatic testimony on steroid 
use as the first of his athletes 
to try the banned substances. 
Issajenko, 30, said she dis­
cussed steroids with Francis 
and got a prescription in 1979 
for dianabol from the Canadian doctor they both went to. 
"Charlie and I went, and I expressed that I wanted to start a program of anabolics," Is­sajenko said. 
She said she made the deci­
sion after being soundly beaten 
by East German sprinters at a 
dual meet with Canada. 
"I saw these people and I 
wanted to be like them," she 
said. "I wanted to be just as 
fast as they were." 


The Observer 




Fencers 'amaze' DeCicco 
Sabre team shines at Great Lakes and Midwest 
page 18 Tuesday, March 14, 1989

By CHRIS FILLIO Sports Writer Last week was certainly no break for some members of the Irish men's and women's fen­ "Phil Leary really fenced out of his mind that weekend," stated DeCicco, "and Holeman was only four or five touches away, but enough so that he took fifth."  behind Wayne State All­American Loredana Ranza, back from an earlier season ill­ness. Freshman Heidi Piper con­tinued to rack up the victories  
cing squads. Nine fencers of the men's squad along with four from the women's foil team represented  Kovacs' final match, a loss to eventual winner Kiel, was probably the closest and most heated confrontation of the  as she placed fifth. The Bris­bane, Australia native posted an impressive 30-5 mark in her first year outside of competi­ 
Notre Dame in tournaments held on March 4 and March 11. March 4, the Irish contin­gency traveled to Wayne State's campus in Detroit, Mich., for the Great Lakes  day. A simultaneous touch was called in favor of Kiel, while vociferous Irish supporters argued otherwise. The setback was enough to upset Kovacs' concentration as he went on to  tion in the land down under. Sophomore Lynn Kadri once again defied the skeptics by proving herself the best wo­men's foilist in the Midwest not holding down a starting spot.  
Championship. "We had a great tournament at the Great Lakes competi­tion,'' said Irish head coach Mike DeCicco. "The sabre team, in my opinion, was, as expected, really magnificent. With the women's team, they  drop the bout. Epee had fewer surprises, save for an off day by captain Ted Fay. Finishing seventh overall for the tourney was un­like most performances for the senior from Oakland, N.J. Senior All-American and last  As the fourth foilist for the Irish, she placed ninth at the Great Lakes championship. Notre Dame, Wayne State and Detroit finished one, two and three in team scoring for the competition, while the Irish won the combined team cham­ 
still never cease to amaze me." Sabremen Leszek Nowosielski, Ed Baguer and  year's silver medalist at the NCAAs, Todd Griffee, took third overall behind Claus  pionship. March 11, ten members of the Irish teams ventured to the ·  
Dave Kirby finished first, second and third, respectively,  Block of the Wayne State Tar­tars.  Midwest Regional Champion­ships at the University of  
in the overall competition.  Freshman David Calderhead  Chicago.  
But when freshman phenom Baguer went down near the end of the day's action with a recur­ring hamstring injury, DeCicco was forced to make a difficult decision concerning his top two sabremen for the following week's Midwest Champion­ships. The surprises continued in men's foil as the near season­perfect Derek Holeman dropped a .key bout and had to settle for fifth in the Great Lakes Championship. All-American Yehuda Kovacs garnered the second  rode the crest of his winning streak to blaze by his compet­itors and grab the top finish for epee. But in evaluating the con­sistency and experience of the epee team, DeCicco made an­other tough judgement call and gave the two Midwest Regional bids to seniors Griffee and Fay. "David is really fencing great at this moment," said DeCicco. "But perhaps he's on the top of his game, and on the downswing. Due to this, the decision was made to go with Ted Fay and Todd Griffee." In the women's competition,  Sophomore Kirby made a prophet out of DeCicco as he took first place. Classmate Nowosielski was unable to compete due to his commit­ment to another tournament. Still, Nowosielski has been vir­tually assured the top sabre seeding out of the Midwest based on two consecutive years of stellar undefeated fencing. Kirby will join Nowosielski as the second Irish sabreman at the NCAAs. The senior epee duo of Fay and Griffee returned to form as they placed fourth and fifth,  The Observer I E.G. Bailey The Notre Dame fencing teams participated in the Great Lakes tournament and the Midwest Regional over break, gearing up for the NCAA Tournament to be held at the end of March. The experience backing finishing eighth, she helped her Kovacs served as the catalyst chances to go to the NCAAs. in his second-place finish and Teammates Hynes, Piper and his teammate Holeman Kralicek put the exclamation complemented an excellent mark on their NCAA berths regular season with a sixth-with a 4-5-6 finish. place showing and and NCAA bid. "I'm just optimistic enough "I'm extremely confident now to think that the women with the six men we have at the have a shot at that National NCAAs this year," stated Championship," said DeCicco. DeCicco. "I'm also pleased "It's really up for grabs, now."  
spot behind German native Albrecht Kiel from WSU and  the Irish continued to dispel doubters about their chances to  respectively, in Chicago. The performances were good  that we have three women com­peting, while Lynn Kadri has a  The Irish will utilize a wealth of alumni talent and supervi­ 
sophomore teammate Phil Leary finished third behind  vie for this year's NCAA cham­pionship.  enough to get the epeeists both bids to the NCAAs. However,  shot at one of the four at large bids."  sion in a rigorous two week preparation for the NCAA  
Kovacs  to  provide  the  Irish  Seniors Kristin Kralicek and  they will have to be wary of the  Indeed  Kadri  showed  her  Championships to  be held at  
with  yet  another  solid  team  captain  Janice  Hynes  took  Illinois  team  which will also  skill as she shellacked interna­ Northwestern University from  
finish in the foil weapon.  second and third, respectively,  send two epeeists.  tionally ranked Ranza, 5-l. In  March 30 to April 4.  


Despite 2nd place finish, wrestlers et 'robbed' 
By GREG help his chances in the Tourn­SCHECKENBACH ament. Sports Writer Radenbaugh will be travel­
ing to his second straight Na­Robbery, Larceny, Theft. tional Tournament, after losing Any of these words could a close match to Mark Schwab describe the thoughts of the 5-4 and earning an at-large bid Irish wrestlers after the West­at 118 pounds. Radenbaugh, ern Regionals two weeks ago who leads the Irish with 35 in Des Moines, Iowa. wins, was knocked out early in 
Freshman Marcus Gowens last year's tourney. and sophomore Todd Layton At 150 pounds, Boyd earned were both shunned from the his first ever trip to the NCAA's NCAA Tournament after per­after being voted into the tourn­forming outstandingly in the ament as a wildcard. Cur­Regional Tournament, while rently, he is ranked in the top also having better then ten in his weight class and has average regular seasons. an upset win over the third­
"Something was definitely ranked wrestler in the nation. wrong with the voting proce­After missing nearly half the dure," stated McCann, who has season with a knee injury, he brought Notre Dame's pro­still amassed 21 wins while only gram out of obscurity during losing five. 
Notre Dame sends only four wrestlers to the
his tenure with the Irish. "I As a team, the Irish finished 
Championship.

honestly believe they (the other second in the Regionals with a coaches) voted against us pur­total of 68.25 points. Northern posely.'' should be examined so that second in the Regional Cham­"I wrestled great until the Iowa won with a total of 116 
The qualifying procedure something like this will not hap­pionships. finals, but I didn't wrestle very points giving Notre Dame it's changed this past year in order pen agam," said McCann. Durso, who is the all-time well once I got to the finals," second straight runner-up to simplify the selection "Our guys should definitely be winning est Irish Wrestler, lost said Durso. "I didn't wrestle finish in the Western process and to make it more included just because they a close 3-2 decision to Jon An­nearly the way I am capable." Regionals. Last year, the Irish fair. Instead of having the top earned it by the way they derson of Drake in the 134-Geneser (30-6) also qualified qualified six wrestlers for Na­two places qualify for the wrestled throughout the year. pound division. Durso (32-5) is for the third time, but will tionals and placed 37th with a NCAA's, there is a wildcard It was an injustice." making his third straight trip wrestle for only his second total of 6.5 points. vote for wrestlers who did not to the tournament. Last year, time. He had a knee injury Notre Dame finished the reg­win their individual champion­On a brighter side, four Notre Durso advanced to the quarter­before the Nationals during his ular season with 10-3 mark ships. This put the selection in Dame wrestlers did qualify for finals before losing a tight sophomore year. Geneser will which is the best in the McCann the hands of other coaches and the tournament. Senior co­match to Joei Bales of finish his career as the second era. They also received their according to McCann, it put the captains Jerry Durso and Chris Northwestern. Durso, who won winningest Irish wrestler be­first ever top-twenty ranking Irish wrestlers at a disadvan­Geneser, senior Pat Boyd and the Western Regionals last hind Durso. At the end of the coming in 18th in the final poll. tage. junior Andy Radenbaugh all year, was not pleased with his year, Geneser made the transi­The National Tournament will 
"Although I still agree with earned at-large bids to the performance in the champion­tion to 167 pounds from his be held this week in Oklahoma the wildcard process, I think it tournament after placing ship match. usual weight of 177 in order to City, Okla. 
The Irish wrestling team may have been the victim of some questionable judgement at the NCAA West Regional. Despite the second place finish, 

CAMPUS 
7 p.m. Communication and Theatre film "Mother," directed by Vsevolod Pudovkin, Annenberg Auditorium. 
7:30 p.m. Faculty Senate Meeting, Room 202 Center for Con­tinuing Education. 
9 p.m. Communication and Theatre film "Bend of the River," directed by Anthony Mann, Annenberg Auditorium. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Noon Kellogg Brown Bag Seminar "The Future of the Brazilian Ecclesial Base Communities in Light of the In­creasing Conservatism in Church Sectors," by Brady Tyson, American University, Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
Noon White Center for Law & Government lecture "Ordeal of Shelter: Continuities and Discontinuities in the Public Response to Homelessness," Professor Kim Hopper, City University of New York Medical School, Room 20 Law School Courtroom. 
4:15 p.m. AT&T Visiting Scholar Series "The Case on Sym­bolic Representational Thought: The Case of Bloom's Closing," by Sylvia Wynter, Stanford University, Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Tangy Grilled Sandwich BBQ Spareribs Chili Crispitas Cheese Sticks 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
Buzz Mcflatop 
AP.¥11.:. f¥0(a liAs LABEuo f/::t' 51t1R ,-t.~.?hV'IV'A ~s NN 
V!IJt.o 'Zikt. -"! PRA~" ~ 
~A.::!< 1~. -m:: /bQE: Jt4R 7il/5 70 fAY C1': 17{t:: filo/{t.l(. 
Calvin and Hobbes 
CA~ '{()IJ B£LI£.1J£ T\W5? l''JE GOT TO f>SSE~ ~~ St.P.NIE WPPtl.l.ER. 
AND MOTOR. 1'\~SE\..f ! 
Saint Mary's 
St. Patricks' Day Dinner Corned Beef Seafood Alfredo Baked Chicken Breast 
... MilCH Wtl5 

... A &mVt:ANfJ 
1/CC!~rf/LL.Y MENT70N6t7 

rOOLJSH M!STIIK6. 
liEf?€-f/5 SEWN& KfiC!f/t..LY 

CK!IYOC.fl Hfi5N'T ./--­
!NSetSmve f'I#K 

HA/7 "ft.MH" 
CKAYONS C.fi/3£1.£fJ 

SINCE. 19'6 3. 
·Fa~w. 
\ 
,.cv,a,;k'A j'!Nf5 
II{ A 41~&11, ~~tJ 8Y 
SVIW!Nt; Cl?b5f£5, .4'v0 tf£T5 
517~MTit, AN tl{5/tJ{JfA8t£.. /JLE:IJ!IV~ F/C¥'{ 7#.£ 
'tl~~~ 00 TI-\Ei T\-IINK r Atll, AN t:t\Git\t.ER? LOOK., l'~E OOT TO II"S£RT T\-\E.SE WIRES 
p.w) \l\15 ttP-.snc. S'ttiKI-\! I CAt{\ (X) -n.\1S ! 

'-~~~ 

NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Sister of Goneril 47Gel and Cordelia 
48 Walked in water1 Former 29 Easter entree 

talk-show host 49 Golf-course 32 Simps hazard
5 Town SEof Perugia 35 Jimmy Carter's 51 Brought to court middle name
11 T-man. e.g. 53 On land 36 Ta-ta's cousin 
14 Goya's Duchess 55 Writer Dos­38ln shape
of-59 Grant or Piniella 39·Colors
15 Tars 60 Mayor Bono's 16 Like a street 
40-acid bailiwick after sleet 41 Surf sound 64 Shade tree 
17 Obeyed the 42 American 65 Kay Thompson rules humorist: character 1866-1944
19 Hockey org. 66 Clod 20 Clothing 
43 Set some 67 Corn holder 

distance apart 21 Liquid container 44 Mrs. Chaplin 68 Primer, e.g. 23 Price 69 Sheepcote
45 Great catcher for matriarchs 25 Father the Reds 
DOWN ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
1--cake (children's game) 
2 "Thanks-!" 3 Foster a felon 4 Group left of 
liberals 5 Fireplace 

residue 6 Call. in poker 1 P.l. Spade 8 "-little teapot 
90ppressed persons 
Berke Breathed 
71IE.. ~'111MIJ:AC/I.EP 
l'(dlia. /JIW!.1 71{£.. IJ:l!ft.O'S 1'/?P'fl#.te 4'!71/Jt..lc. t;V~ 
/.J£. AR£ /)/SC/'NJHV!fo/q )lll..MTY 5.!J(VIa. 70 ST~. 
I m:'l 
A!'~ 
IIIIo 
4 I """' ,4ffY. 
tvl L­
a 
Bill Watterson 

KO! GIT P.WM ! I'll Do II! 
~oo·o ~~BL~ 
GOOf IT ALL UP, OR ... 

L.;;.J;:...:..L::...L.::.L..:...J 10 Idea 

18 Cyclo follower 22 Exist  33 Actress Keaton 34 Antique violin 36 Tree juice  54 Go it alone 56 Good news at Stowe  
24 More, for one  37 One of Wynken's  57 Eye a peri  
26 G.l.'s therapy  shipmates  58 Sights at J.FK  
27-Cologne  41 Motel's locale  61 Mauna­ 
28 Good  43 Less obtuse  62 Amongst  
gardener's  46--Magnon  63 Buffalo-to-Olean  
appendage?  48-andtear  dir.  


·"Agnes! It's that heavy, chewing sound again!" 

01961 Cllromcltt O.slrlbuted by UntverMJ Prea Synd;cate 
• 
.""''' 
... 




Sports
page 20 Tuesday, March 14, 1989 
Irish finish season 20-8, face Vandy in 1st round 
Women's hoops wins MCC, earns NIT bid 

ND needs time to heal wounds 
By THERESA KELLY 
Sports Editor 
The ''Battle to Seattle" begins in earnest 
Friday as the Notre Dame men's basketball 
team travels to Providence, R.I., to play Van­
derbilt in the first round of the East Regional 
of the NCAA basketball tournement. 
The real post-season play comes on the heels 
of what Irish head coach Digger Phelps tabbed 
·'our conference tournement,'' made up of three 
road games to wrap up the regular season. 
Notre Dame battled injuries to key players as well as Butler, Marquette and DePaul to finish the regular season with 20 wins against eight losses, the sixth consecutive season the Irish have had at least 20 wins. 
The Irish started their spring break with an 87-77 loss to Louisville, which was coming off a home upset at the hands of Cincinnati. Kenny Payne led the Cardinals with 27 points, and clutch free throw shooting in the final minutes by LaBradford Smith (six-of-six from the stripe l kept any Irish comeback attempt at bay. 
"We needed to win," said Louisville head co­ach Denny Crum, whose team is also among the 64 in the NCAA Tournament. "We haven't been playing well, but we won on the road at Notre Dame." 
The difference in the game may have been the loss of Notre Dame freshman LaPhonso El­lis with a compound dislocation of his right in­dex finger. With just under three minutes gone in the first half, Ellis blocked a shot by Louis­ville star Pervis Ellison but came down with the injury and immediately left the court for treatment. 
see IRISH, page 13 


By FRANK PASTOR 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame knew exactly where it stood Saturday night when it took to the court against Loyola in the champi­onship game of the inaugural Midwestern Collegiate Confer­ence women's basketball tournament in Dayton, Ohio. 
The winner would greatly en­hance its chances of obtaining a bid to a post-season tourna­ment while the loser would spend the off-season pondering what might have been. 
The Irish proved they were up to the challenge by soundly defeating the Lady Ramblers 75-53 to claim the MCC crown. It marked the second time in 



Irish defeat Miami, again 
8-3 NO baseball gets first collegiate ranking ever 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 
This time there were no ex­cuses. 
After hearing that Miami had not played particularly hard in Notre Dame's exhibition two­game sweep of the Hurricanes last fall, the Irish baseball team went out and did it again in a regular-season game on the road. 
Notre Dame (8-3) defeated the third-ranked Hurricanes 4­2 last Wednesday at Miami's Mark Light Stadium, highlight­ing a spring break trip to Florida that saw the Irish win four of their six games. 

as many weeks Notre Dame finished the season very had beaten Loyola by at least strongly.'' 20 points. Notre Dame dominated 
And while the NCAA tourna­ment selection committee wasn't willing to extend a bid to Notre Dame, the National In­vitational Tournament greeted the Irish with open arms. 
Notre Dame, which finished its regular season with a 20-9 mark, discovered Sunday it will face Toledo on March 23 in Amarillo, Texas in the opening round of the eight-team NIT. 
"We were excited," said Iri.sh coach Muffet McGraw of the prospect of extending the season a few more weeks: "We were hoping that we'd get an NIT bid because we won 20 games and we felt like we 


"What we did in the fall wasn't a fluke," said Notre Dame coach Pat Murphy. "Miami played its number-one team and played it for keeps. 
"The common adage is to win your games at home and be satisfied with it," continued Murphy. "We don't subscribe to that medicine. We beat them before, and we believed we could win again." 
This victory, coupled with an earlier win over Texas, has the Irish gaining national atten­tion. The ESPN-Collegiate Baseball Top 25 poll released Monday had Notre Dame ranked 25th. This is the first time that Lou Pavlovich, Jr., 
~­
. The Observer I Jim Brake 
Keith Robinson leads the inside game of the Notre Dame basketball team as it heads for Providence, R.I. to play Vanderbilt in the NCAA college basketball tournament. 
who has run the poll for the last 20-plus years, can remember seeing Notre Dame on the list. 
Texas is ranked second and Miami sixth in the new poll. 
"We· know we still have a long way to go," said Murphy. "We have a little added pres­sure now, and we just want to continue to improve and work hard." 
Notre Dame's Florida trip started with a 16-9 win Sunday over Pitt and an 8-lloss to Rol­lins on Monday. 
James Sass and Frank Jacobs each rapped three hits against Pitt, with Sass driving in four 
see HITS, page 15 

half to open up a 41-25 halftime advantage over Loyola. The Irish shot 58.5 percent for the game and outrebounded the Lady Ramblers 38-21. 
"The first half was the best we played all year," said McGraw. "We shot 69 percent from the field, we only turned the ball over five times and just executed to perfection." 
Sophomore Krissi Davis scored 25 points in the game and was named the tournament MVP. Sophomore point guard Karen Robinson, who dished out 19 assists in the two games, 
also  was  selected  to  the all­ 
tournament team.  
The  NIT  berth  also  gives  

Notre Dame's senior players 


_.. .
, 

. 
Dan Peltier and the Notre Dame baseball team raised their record to 8-3 and earned their first ever national ranking with their 4-2 record over break, including a win over the Miami Hurricanes. 
Some  Isurpr1ses  
in the  Final 64  
Associated Press  

Except for Lon Kruger and Clem Haskins, almost every coach playing a mystery team in a first-round game in the NCAA basketball can sing the same refrain: "who are these guys?" 
It was stated most bluntly by Coach Ralph Miller of 21-7 Oregon State, for whom every game could be his last. Miller, whose Beavers are the sixth seed in the West regional, turned 70 last Thursday and is retiring after this season. 
"We absolutely know nothing about Evansville," he said after finding out that his first-round opponent in Tucson Friday will be the 24-5 Purple Aces, champion of the Midwes­tern Collegiate Conference. 
"But we'll know something soon." 
The top seeds face the same problems, but should breeze through their games. Since the current 64-team format was established in 1985, the highest seeds to lose in the first round were Indiana to Cleveland State and Notre Dame to Arkansas-Little Rock in 1986. Indiana and Notre Dame were third seeds in their regions, the victors were 14th. 
This year's top four--Georgetown in the East, Illinois in the Midwest, Oklahoma in the Sout­heast and Arizona in the West--begin play as prohibitive favorites. 
Georgetown, whose dominant play in the Big East tournament has made it the early favorit~ to win the overall title, meets Ivy League cham­pion Princeton Friday in Providence in a matchup that might have been more intriguing a year ago when Hoya Coach John Thompson's son played for the Tigers. 
see TOURNEY, page 13 
collegiate careers. One senior in particular, Diondra Toney, played a major role in insuring Saturday's game would not be her last, pouring in 18 points and adding seven assists while holding MCC Player of the Year Sheryl Porter to 6 of 17 shooting from the field. 
"Diondra played great defense in the tournament," said McGraw, "especially guarding Sheryl Porter. She (Porter) ended up shooting 6 of 17 and of those six she got, a lot of them were layups or breakaway steals. Diondra really shut her down. . 
"It's great for Diondra to go out in style and to get a post­

~· '· . 
The Observer I Mike Moran 





