
A tad warmer
IACCENT: 'Her Alibi' is not convincing 
Becomingpartlysunnyanda -little warmer today. Highs from 
0 
IVIEWPOINT•• Overcoming eating disorders l.~_~s!_a_~~--n~-~c~_:aco_si~_9t_~~-~~-!~___;_______. 
. . ~ows in the middle teens. 


Bush plan likely to hit taxpayers 
Associated Press and Brady need congres­
sional approval. 
WASHINGTON--Presi­But Bush said, "I will not 
dent Bush on Monday called support any new fee on 
on banks and thrift institu­depositors." He thus 
tions to pay higher deposit rejected a proposal floated 
insurance premiums as part by his own senior aides to 
of a $100 billion solution to charge depositors a fee to 
the savings and loan crisis, help raise funds for the 
but recommended no direct bailout, an idea roundly 
fee on individual depositors. criticized by members of 
"We intend to restore our Congress. 
entire insured deposit sys­The announcement 
tem to health," the president marked Bush's first attempt 
told reporters in outlining a as president to deal with a 
series of regulatory changes major problem, and he ap­
and vowing to prosecute any pealed for support in 
wrongdoing at S&Ls that Congress. 
have failed thus far. Sen. Don Riegle, D-Mich., 
"In all the time since crea­chairman of the Senate 
tion of the deposit insurance, Banking Committee, said 
savers have not lost one dol­any legislation should also 
lar of insured deposits and I prohibit states from allow­
am determined that they ing activities by savings and 
never will," Bush added. loans that are not sanctioned 
An estimated $100 billion by federal regulators. 
is needed to rescue the ailing The banks and savings 
industry. and loans can be expected to 
Bush said the government pass on at least a portion of 
should raise $50 billion in their costs to consumers, 
bonds to finance the cost of possibly in the form of lower 
failed institutions, to go interest rates on savings ac­
along with $40 billion com­counts. 
mitted last year by "We've got a major prob­
regulators. lem and something has to be 
Bush said the interest on done and this is the fairest 
the bonds would be financed system that the best minds 
by higher insurance in this administration can 
premiums. Separately, come up with," Bush said. 
Treasury Secretary Nic­Bush said the difficulty in 
holas Brady outlined a plan the S&L industry was caused 
for members of Congress partly by economic condi­
that called for higher tions. But, he said, "un­
premiums paid into the conscionable risk takine:, 
deposit insurance fund. The 
proposals outlined by Bush see BUSH, page 4 
Indiana S&L s recovery is clouded by Southwest crisis 
Associated Press however, the state's thrift 
leaders don't sound happy. 
INDIANAPOLIS--The The problem is, McKasson success of Indiana's Savings says, the media is reporting and Loan institutions has about the problems with been overshadowed by the thrifts in the Southwestern flood of insolvent thrifts in states, and not making note the Southwest, according to of any geographic distinc­an industry spokesman. tions. 
Richard McKasson, presi­"We didn't have anybody dent of the Indiana League do any of the exotic things of Savings Institutions, says you read about," McKasson it's ironic that Indiana said. "We didn't have any thrifts are in the sixth year real crooks or fly-by­of a recovery from the S&L nighters or anything like crisis of 1982. that." 
McKasson says structural The result is that people improvements are in place, with a little extra money to capital requirements have tuck away are not consider­been strengthened, better ing thrifts, "even though the examiners have been hired, rates or convenience would net worths are up and prob­be equally attractive" to lem thrifts have been taken other institutions, McKas­care of. On the whole, In­son said. diana thrifts are looking for He admits, however, that another profitable year, he Indiana's thrift industry has 
AP Photo 

A neighborhood samba group takes part in the famous Rio De Janeiro carnival parade early Monday. Eighteen top groups compete in the two­night parade, considered the highlight of the Brazilian carnival. 
Today's vote likely to kill Congress pay hike 
Associated Press On Monday, however, after opponents won a dramatic vote 
WASHINGTON--The to keep the issue alive on the speaker of the House, Jim House floor, he relented and Wright, caved in Monday to op­said the chamber will vote ponents of a 51 percent congres­Tuesday. sional pay raise, conceding "The majority will rule," he "the majority has spoken" in said, promising a vote that demanding a vote that will "will be plain,...pretty damn likely keep senators and repre­simple." sentatives from getting any in­One leading opponent of the crease. raise, consumer advocate 
Wright had planned to let the Ralph Nader, said Wright's raise take effect Wednesday, capitulation showed he had then have the House vote the realized "that the power of the next day to scale it back to 30 percent. see PAY, page 5 
l
-


Rally will salute '88 champs 
By NATE FITZGERALD 
News Staff 
A pep rally honoring the Notre Dame 1989 National Championship football team will be host to an expected 10,000 people at the Joyce 
A.C.C. Feb. 7 at 8 p.m. 
The pep rall) will begin with a 10-minute highlight film of the 1988 season, followed by presentations from Father Ed­ward Malloy, a representative from United Press Interna­tional, head football coach Lou Holtz and South Bend mayor Joe Kernan. 
The singing of the Alma Mater and the Victory March will close the first part of the pep rally, and a 10-minute break will follow. An hour-long highlight film of the 1988-1989 season, entitled "They Wanted To Win," will then be shown. 
"It (the pep rally) is a salute to the national champions from the students and all the employees of the University," said Student Body President Tom Doyle. 
Publicity will be limited to the Notre Dame campus be­cause this tribute to the team is coming from the student body and those associated with the University, according to Doyle. 
Copies of the January 3, 1989 issue of the South Bend Tribune will be given out free at the pep rally. The event is being spon­sored by student government and the Notre Dame Athletic Department. 
The Observer I Jennifer Oh 

Blistery day 

From left: Gigi Dolak, Laura Mines and Suzanne Monday. The recent snowfall and strong winds made 
said. not chosen to pay top rates 
Devine walk to Haggar Center at Saint Mary's on walking hazardous and uncomfortable.
Despite their success, needed to attract deposits. 




~pa~g~e~2~----------------------------------------------~T~h~e~O=bse.~N~e~r______________________________________T_u_e_sd_a_y_._F_eb_r_ua_~__7_,_1_9B_9 

IN BRIEF 
Morris Pollard, ColemandirectorofLobundLaboratory at the University of Notre Dame and Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences, has been named an honorary alumnus of the University by the Alumni Association. The announcement was made today at a reunion luncheon for former members of the alumni board. Pollard was the guest speaker. Only six others have been given honory alumni status. Pollard is a graduate of Ohio State Univer­sity and holds a master's degree from Virginia Polytechnic Institute and a doctorate from the University of California at Berkeley. He came to Notre Dame in 1961 as a professor of Biology and director of Lobund, the facility that pioneered germfree research techniques. -The Observer 
Peter Walshe, Notre Dame professor of government and international studies, was awarded a MacArthur Foundation study grant for the 1989-90 academic year, according to the Department of Government and Interna­tional Studies. The grant will permit Walshe a year away from teaching to research and write a book on "Prophetic Christianity and the Search for Justice and Peace in South Mrica." Walshe, who joined Notre Dame's faculty in 1966, will conduct part of his research in England, the depart­ment said. -The Observer 


OF INTEREST 
Eating Disorder Survey Results will be presented tonight by the staff of the University Counseling Center at 6:30p.m. in Knott Hall. -The Observer 
Issues '89 will feature a discussion on today's most prominant economic issues with Professor Thomas Swartz today at 9 p.m. on WFVI AM 640. -The Observer 
JPW Welcoming Reception Committee Members 
meet today at 6 p.m. in the JPW Office, 305 LaFortune. 
-The Observer 
Overseas Development Network will sponsor an 
open coffeehouse today at 8 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
Student Directories for those off-campus students who have not yet received them are availale until Feb. 8 in the Student Government Office, Second Floor, LaFor­tune Student Center. -The Observer 
Sexuality, Intimacy, & Spirituality is the topic of a retreat by Patricia Livingstone to be conducted on Feb. 24-26. Those interested can sign-up at Campus Ministry in Badin Hall, until Feb. 17. -The Observer 
Math Club meets today at 7 p.m. in the Dooley Room, 
LaFortune Student Center, to discuss the internships avail­
able to math majors. -The Observer 
The Trident Naval Society will host a lecture given by John Roncz ('71) at 6 p.m. iQ the Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune. Roncz designed the wings, propellers, and tail of the "Voyager," the first airplane to fly around the world non-stop without refueling. He also designed the sails for the "Stars & Stripes," the first catamaran to ever sail in the 137-year history of the America's Cup. -The Observer 
A Mass for Peace in the Holy Land will be held today at 11 p.m. in Sorin Hall with Father Malloy. -The Observer 
Ash Wednesday is Feb. 8, the beginning of the lenten 
season. Masses will be celebrated at 11:30 a.m. and 5 p.m. 
in Sacred Heart Church. -The Observer 

Observer Of Interests and other public service 
announcements may be submitted at The Observer main 
office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 
1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­
nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­
ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. 
Campus announces other events of general interest, free 
or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­
mitted materials and determine if and where announce­
ments will be published. -The Observer 



-Ih-e-Obse.-~~r-­
-------A~Y:-'-' --­
Design Editor .. ... .. .. .. .. .... Kathy Huston Design Assistant ............ Karen New love Typesetters............ Tim 'No Buz' Kiefer ............................................ Dan Towers News Editor ...................... Michelle Dall Copy Editor ....................... Missy Weber Sports Copy Editor ................ Pete Skiko Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Christine Walsh Viewpoint Layout .......... Christine Walsh Accent Editor .. .. .. .. ... .. Trisha Chambers 
Accent Copy Editor.. ......... Matt Murphy Accent Designer ................. Alison Cocks Typist .. ..... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .... . Diana Bradley ............................................. Will Zamer ND Day Editor ... Christine Dombrowski Photographer ....................... Jennifer Ott Ads Designer .................... Jeff Stelmach. .......................................... Megan Keane ............................................... Chris Nee 

Tile o..r-(USPS 599 2--4000) is published Monday throuah Friday except durina cum aDd vacation periods. Tile ~-is published by the students of the University of Notre o.mc aDd Saint Mary's CoiJcac. Subscriptions may be purcbu­ed for S40 per year !S2' per ICIIICitcr) by writina Tile o..r-, P.O. Box Q, Notre Duac, llldiana 46556. 
Tile o..r-is a member of Tile Allodll... rn.. All reproduction riabts arc racrved. 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Seeing football players in person is a 'thrill' 
Tonight the 1988 football season ends official­ly, at least in my mind. Although I'm sad, I've discovered that it's just as much fun watching the players off the field as well as on. 
This fall I came to Notre Dame from a family of four girls, where I never followed football much. Also, being a freshman, I knew little about Notre Dame football. My eyes were opened when the thrill of an ND game enveloped me. 
I discovered later that following the personal, as well as athletic, sides of the players could be quite fun. I saw them from the stadium seats, and I had read about them in Sports Illustrated, but I have to admit I got goose bumps the first time I saw one of them in person in the dining hall. 
Michael Stonebreaker really caught my eye after the Michigan game. The fact that he was all over the field and tops in tackles may have had something to do with it. Suddenly, I loved football. I was hooked. 
For some reason, I decided that I had to meet Stonebreaker. Unfortunately, many other freshman girls had caught the same disease; we all had to meet the "famous" football players. 
I'm not the shy type, so I decided to leave a note on Stonebreaker's door, and I even managed to snag a picture of him for my per­sonal collection. This wasn't exactly the best move, but he really did call. 
Instead of becoming buddies with Stonebreaker, I blush every time I see him. He asked me to return the picture so he could give it to his girlfriend. He thinks I'm pretty ridiculous; needless to say, our conversation did not go very well. 
Well, I wasn't discouraged, meeting football players at ND is sort of like meeting movie stars in Hollywood. (Sort of?) The thrill and excitement is great. I mean, what else is there to do in South Bend? 
My next encounter came one night when I was out with my friends -Nora, Monica and Sarah. We were at Campus View, and guess who walked in? Tony Ric,e, Ricky Watters and Pat Terrell. Unfortunately, they were more in­terested in Nora. Terrell even said that Nora made "his liver quiver." Lucky Nora. But at least I got to meet them. I also had something more to tell my parents on Sunday than "I'm fine; school's great." 
My final adventure, thus far, was a chance 

Kelley Tuthill 
Copy Editor 


meeting with Captain Ned Bolcar. My friend Julie and I were out, and I spotted Bolcar from across the room. I told Julie that Ned Bolcar was in front of us and to say "hello." 
She asked me who he was, but approached him anyway. "Hi Fred, I'm Julie and this is Kelley," said Julie. Turning bright red, I was quick to correct her and apologize for her mis­take. He laughed and continued to tolerate Julie's inability to grasp who he was and what his real name was. I have to admit, Bolcar was the most friendly and amiable of the lot. 
You may be smirking at this point and mut­tering to yourself, "Typical freshman geek." Yeah, maybe, but it's a lot more harmless than you think. I don't worship these players, I just have fun meeting them and seeing my friend's reactions when I tell them that they just met Tony Rice. 
I always hear students complaining that there's no social life at Notre Dame and how South Bend is boring. I say that it's as exciting or lame as you allow it to be. I've had fun, and I know that I'll have something more to tell my children than just the standard "Notre Dame is a special place." 

LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 

ltOIII'l DIIVI Dltulllll, 011 RIO( WITH AM'fOHf WHO DOl~ 


r-----------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-----~ 
Tuesday, February 7, 1989 

AP Photo

In a land down under 
Most teenagers like to spend their free time outdoors in the sun. But Scott Foster, a Hopkinsville, Ky. high school junior, would prefer to go down into caves with his friends . 
..........--......... 
DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE WITH STUDENT I. D. AT: 
c\-\\cl{-f\\..·" 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT NIGHT 
A Continuing Saga 
Day Two: 
N.D. and St. Mary's students still at a loss for methods of entertainment. 
Act Two: We find our stars at the Huddle discussing the meaning of being a student. (And other magnanimous decisions) 
Bob: 'Why can't we be recognized for the potential leaders that we are destined to become? I mean it just seems that as students we are never acknowledged for our aspirations. • 
Colleen: "I know what you mean. I sometimes wonder if anyone even knows that we are in need of something to keep our leisure time exciting." 
Jessica: 'Well, you two have obviously not been reading the Observer. Yesterday, they had an article concerning a Student Night at the University Park Mall and it stated that on Thursday, February 9, there would be certain activities for us, the students. We could ride the bus to the mall rith after class since it lasts from 4:00 and the time the mall closes." 
Bob: "Ok, let's go. It has got to be better than our discussion on the meaning of students and, I've been wanting to check out the new route that takes us directly to the mall." 
Colleen: "I guess I'll go too, however, 1 still enjoy our conversations on the potential we have to give this country." 
Bob: "Now, who's being melodramatic." 
Stay tuned for tomorrow's episode when our stars actually board the Transpo bus and discover the options that are available on their student night. 





l¥~~0 Q ~'233.21'31"' 


The Observer page 3 
New computer lab to open 

By FLORENTINE (those in) previous labs," said HOELKER Spicer. Staff Reporter Although directed toward the needs of engineering and archi­
A new computer lab, which tecture students, the lab will will be located in the architec­also be open to other students, ture building, should be open added Spicer. after spring break, according The new computers, IBM PS to Donald Spicer, assistant 2 model 70s, will number about provost for University comput­17, according to Spicer. Stu­ing. dents will have access to 16 of 
them, while the remaining 
"The new lab will hold com-computers will be reserved ex­puters which possess greater elusively for instructors. processing capabilities than "This particular lab," said 

Saint Mary's Programming Board meets to plan second semester spring activities 
room 304 Haggar Center Saint Mary's. At the meeting, election rules and regulations will be announced. 
Saint Mary's student govern­ment also reported that it has purchased a new computer for all Saint Mary's students. Available times for computer use will be announced to stu­dents next week. 
Iceberg debates results 
The results of the second 
round of the Iceberg 
Debates Monday night are: 
Fisher (con) 82 vs. Badin 79 Farley (con) 88.5 vs. Flanner 75 Carroll (con) 72 vs. Dillon 68 Breen-Phllllps (pro) 83 vs. Grace I 78 Keenan (pro) 84 vs. Holy Cross 76 Morrissey (pro) 95 vs. Walsh 75 Sorln (pro) 80 vs. Lyons 78 Stanford (pro) 90 vs. P.W. 85 Off-Campus (pro) 85 vs. Siegfried 83 Pangborn (pro) 72 vs. Howard 69 
P.E. (pro) 84 vs. St. Eds 83 Lewis (pro) 82 vs. Alumni 81 Grace II (con) 86 vs. Knott 81 Zahm (con) 83 vs. Cavanaugh 81 The debate topic was the conver­sion of three dorms for coresidential housing. 
By LAUREL VITALE News Staff 
The Saint Mary's Program­ming Board held its weekly meeting Monday night, dis­cussing several student activi­ties planned for the spring se­mester. 
The Board announced that alumnus Gail Stern will be speaking Friday at 4 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge as part of the Alumni Speaker Series. 
Stern is a Chicago resident and a business graduate of Saint Mary's. She will be sharing her experiences and job opportunities upon gradua­tion from college. 
It was also announced that 
Saint Mary's student govern­
ment will co-sponsor a sale 
with Logan Center, selling 
green clown noses to celebrate 
St. Patrick's Day. The noses 
will be available on both the 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame 
campuses at the end of 
February. 
Lisa Hill, vice president for Student Mfairs, says she believes the Logan sale is for a good cause and will add to the St. Patrick's Day spirit on both campuses. 
A mandatory meeting for students running for class or student body office will also be held Wednesday at 7 p.m. in 


•*********************************,~ 

: STQDYINISRAEL ~ 
~ Dr. Lawrence Besserman, Director of * 
• Office of Academic Affairs ~ 
~ and * 
• 
Ms. Zoe Olefsky, Midwest Representative for: ~ ~ HEBREW UNIVERSITY OF JERUSALEM :+ -:: will answer your questions on: * 

• 
DATE: PLACE: :+ 

• 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8TH MORRIS INN -COUNCIL ROOM :+ : TIME: REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED~ • 4:00PM -5:00PM :+ 


• *
• *
• * 
~ ~ ~ 
• * 
• THE HEBREW UNIVERSITY OF JERUSALEM ~ 

:*********************************** 
Spicer, "will not be open 24 hours, but will open and close with the architecture building. But we certainly expect to keep another computer lab open on a 24-hour basis." He said the 24-hour lab will be located in the basement of LaFortune Student Center . 

The recent theft of five com­puters from O'Shaughnessy Hall will in no way affect the architecture building lab, said Spicer. 
at 






=Ihe.=..·ObserYer-_
-·= 

Applications are now being accepted for the following positions: 
Managing Editor Business Manager Systems Manager A three-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Chns Donnelly by 5 p.m ..Wednesday, February 8. 
News Editor "\ 1ewpoint Editor Sports Editor Accent Editor Saint Mary's Editor Photo Editor 
Art Director Ad Design Manager Advertising Manager Production Manager Controller 
.f: 


OTS Director 
A two-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Chris Donnelly by:,~..P·~: :f?pday, February 10. 

Bush 
continued from page 1 
fraud and outright criminality have also been factors." 
Before Bush spoke, an in­dustry official said banks have received assurances that the money raised by the higher premiums will go into their insurance fund, the FDIC, and will not directly pay for the problems of the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp. 
Sources said the money raised by the premiums will count as revenue. Thus, in an arrangement envisioned by Budget Director Richard Darman, the government will be able to spend several billions of taxpayer dollars a year without adding to the budget deficit, said a gov­ernment official, who also spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Taxpayer money, offset by the insurance premiums, would pay the annual inter­est on $50 billion in long-term bonds, to be sold over three years, as well as help meet $38 billion in commitments made by S&L regulators in rescuing and propping up 223 S&Ls last year. 

Tuesday, February 7, 1989
The Observer 

Grad students at ND feel 
•

'neglected,' vo1ce concerns 
By DESIREE fiE LISLE News Staff 
The Graduate Student Life Series opened Monday night with a discussion between Uni­versity President Father Ed­ward Malloy and graduate stu­dents on a variety of issues such as the lack of graduate housing. 
During the discussion, the first of a three-part series spon­sored by the Graduate Student Life Organization, graduate students told Malloy they felt neglected by the University. One of their concerns was the lack of space on campus for living, working and socializing. 
Malloy said he would like to rectify the problem of graduate housing quickly, adding that the next proposed dorms will be for graduate students. 
Several graduate students said they are unhappy with the current social conditions at Notre Dame. The sense of com­munity for which Notre Dame is known is absent at the graduate level, they said. 
Offering his ideas on the sub­ject, Malloy said the graduate students should make contacts in their departments with the faculty and their fellow stu­dents. 
One grad student suggested increased publicity of campus events and non-varsity athletic programs to help remedy the social alienation graduate stu­dents feel. 
Another graduate student, who said many graduate stu­dents have been displaced from their offices to make room for faculty offices and computer labs, called the lack of office space debasing. 

Malloy said he could not offer any specific solutions on this subject, but said he would keep the issue on the agenda. 
Other concerns that were brought up included financial aid problems, lack of married housing for graduate students, an inadequate University­sponsored health insurance plan and the poor relations be­tween graduate students and Notre Dame Alumni clubs. 
University Provost Timothy O'Meara is scheduled to speak in a Graduate Student Life Se­ries discussion in March. 
Student Senate meets, details second semester campus events 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER Staff Reporter 
Student Senate, in a brief meeting Monday evening, detailed upcoming events and discussed issues of student con­cern. 
Student government said the teacher/course evaluation forms will reach students "soon." On-campus seniors, juniors and sophomores will receive the forms. 
The evaluation forms contain seven objective questions re­garding classes and professors from the fall 1988 semester. Professors will be graded on a four-point scale based on stu­dents' answers. Responses will then be compiled, and classes will listed in categories by pro­fessor. 
The final results should be available before registration for the fall1989 semester so stu­dents can base their course se­lections on the evaluations. 
Student Union Board said a campus-wide SYR is planned for February 24 in the North Dining Hall. The SYR is open to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 

Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Nite will be Thursday, February 9 at University Park Mall. Many mall merchants plan to give special treatment to students Thursday from 4 to 9p.m. 
WE'D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITIITION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
THE CONSTITIITION 
. nlc \\\)r.is \\'l' lin: ~­


STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT... 
The Ombudsman Society will hold its first meeting on Wednesday, February 8, at 8:00pm at the Foster Room in LaFortune(Room 306). 
AQWOBKS 


.-------~--------~--------------------~------------~------~·-----~­
Tuesday, February 7, 1989 
The Observer 

Sakharov criticiz~s news story 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW--Andrei Sakharov says a French newspaper and a Soviet newspaper mis­represented him when they quoted him as saying conserva­tives could topple President Mikhail Gorbachev or cripple his reforms. 
In a letter published Monday in the government newspaper Izvestia, Sakharov, the dean of the Soviet human rights move­ment, said the comments came from a "tea-table conversa­tion" with a French guest. He said they were taken out of con­text and were not meant for a newspaper interview but for a book. 
Sakharov's comments from the conversation were pub­lished Jan. 26 in the French newspaper Le Figaro, and an Izvestia editorial attacked the reported comments on Wed­nesday. 
Sakharov wrote Monday that he and his wife, Yelena Bonner, said during the conversation that they believe the Soviet Union must hold direct elec­tions and that the current sys­
~========~-..V HAPPY 
VALENTINES DAY! 
~a. ~IJ/4te ~au 
C]c!~~ 
q ********* 
e..tt (SI7} 575-S'S'S'4 wai~"ZZi44 .... ~ ;... ltJ. o1 ~'?L&S uk~eu 
1t&T7 VA1f 11t 11tZYJA'ItA
cJ ************ 00 ONlY $19.95 0 
rincludes IN deliverYJ 
CA[.[. r31 'lJ 575-8884 Pamd44-? 
tern of indirect elections •"lay increase the danger of Gorbc.. '!­hev being overthrown and hi~ policies cast aside. 
"Meanwhile, it was not noticed that my wife said, 'Gor­bachev does not need to fear direct elections. The people would necessarily elect him. Our country has no other leader,"' he wrote in the letter to Izvestia. 
"I fully agree with this," he said. 
"I actively support perestroika (restructuring). I am convinced it's necessary for our country and the whole world," he added, stressing that Gorbachev plays a special role in the Soviet Union's reform. 
In the Figaro article, Sak­harov was quoted as saying, "The conservatives will over­throw Gorbachev or at least impose their views on him." 
Le Figaro quoted Bonner as saying, "The only real defense for a chief of state is direct elec­tion. Why is Gorbachev afraid? We would elect him. Our country has no other leader." 
She also was quoted as 
~i!Xmpage1 
people is greater than the power of his tyranny in (trying to) close down the House of Representatives until the members got their salary in­crease." 
The speaker gave no indica­tion whether the vote would also repeal raises for federal judges and top executive branch officials. Members of Congress would see their an­nual salaries jump from $89,500 to $135,000 under the proposal. 


Associated Press 
WARSAW, Poland--The gov­ernment's top delegate to his­toric talks with the opposition opened the first session Mon­day by offering to legalize Solidarity if the union agrees to economic and political reforms. 
Interior Minister Gen. Czes­law Kiszczak, seated opposite Solidarity leader Lech Walesa, called for the opposition to par­ticipate in Poland's govern­ment. 
Fifty-seven delegates from the government, the opposition and the Roman Catholic Church gathered for the talks at the ornate Council of Minis­ters Palace, the building where the Warsaw Pact was created. 
The delegates met for about three hours and issued a short communique that said talks by three "working groups" would resume Wednesday. One group will consider economic and so­cial policies, another political reforms and the third the issue of allowing more than one union to exist. 
"We were brought together here by the sense of responsi­bility for the future of our mot­herland. We are all responsible for the Poland to be," Kiszczak told the participants, the state­run news agency • PAP re­ported. 
"We must accept the philos­ophy of necessity alongside that of the gradual character of transformations," he said. "As it goes for trade union pluralism, there is no question if, but the point is how." 
"We demand Solidarity. We have the right to it," Walesa said in his speech, PAP re­ported. 
Walesa blamed Poland's eco­nomic and political crisis on a lack of freedoms, but said he sensed the government was ready for change, state-run TV reported. 
Known as the round table, the talks are the first between Solidarity and the government since the union was suppressed by the martial-law crackdown in December 1981. 
"If we work out at the round table. . . a confirmed con­sensus on the idea of non­confrontational elections as well as support for planned po­litical and economic reforms, there will be an immediate pos­sibility" to allow more than one trade union to exist at a given factory, Kiszczak said. 
Kiszczak called for changes in electoral laws and a new par­liament that would "represent a coalition of forces." 
Solidarity has expressed wil­lingness to see the opposition enter parliament. But it is reluctant to endorse opposition participation in a Cabinet that, despite reform, is likely to be dominated by the Communist Party. 
Kiszczak, a member of the ruling Politburo, said if Solidarity were legalized, it "cannot return to old ruts, be­coming the source of anarchy and tensions." 
W alesa "accepted all of Kiszczak's suggestions in the 
name  of  the  side  he  
represents,"  Polish  TV  re­ 
ported.  

"We are saying words, but Poland needs facts, new, brave actions.... All Poles will take account of our every word and every decision and also, and maybe first of all, our lack of decisions," Walesa was quoted as saying. 
"The biggest problem we have to fight now is the catastrophe of the Polish eco­nomy," he said. 
Both sides agree that com­promise is essential if Poland is to overcome its huge $38.9 billion debt and chronic con­sumer shortages. 
The talks were given heavy TV coverage throughout the night and the Communist Party daily Trybuna Ludu came out with an extra evening edition. 
Government spokesman Jerzy Urban told reporters that authorities were satisfied with the session. 

Over 100 Centers Nationwide Proven Preparation For The Bar Exams 

California  Florida  Massachusetts  New Mexico  
Colorado  Illinois  Michigan  New York  
Connecticut  Maine  New Hampshire  Pennsylvania  
Dist. of Columbia  Maryland  New Jersey  Rhode Island  

saying she thought Gorbachev will be overthrown soon. "I would not bet 10 rubles on Gor­bachev," she said. 
In his letter Sakharov said he ntver "gave an interview" and that he and his wife understood their comments may be used in a future book but not quickly appear "in the form of an in­terview, moreover, with a number of inaccuracies." 
Sakharov, 67, who won the 1975 Nobel Peace Prize, also criticized Izvestia's editorial for "unjustly" representing him. 
But Le Figaro published a note Feb. 3, saying journalist Jean-Pierre Barou had told Sakharov and his wife that they would be quoted when he met them in a six-hour interview conducted over three consecu­tive evenings in their Moscow home. 
"Barou asserted to us, in a handwritten letter, that he warned the Sakharovs that ex­tracts from their conversations would be published in several major newspapers,'' according to a note published in le Figaro Feb. 3. 
A house vote will require coordination with the Senate, which voted 95-5 for a more complicated rejection measure last Thursday that included a plan to roll back the increase for Congress and the executive branch officials. 
Wright said he has been in touch with Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, D­Maine, on a common approach that would be needed to send legislation rescinding the raise to Bush. 
+
American 
Red Cross 
Texas Vermont Virginia 

STANLEY H. 
KAPIAN-SMH 
BAR REVIEW SERVICES 
KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER 1717 E. SOUTH· BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 219/272-4135 
page·5 


COLLEGE OF SCIENCE DEPARTMENT TOURS AND OPEN HOUSES 
Biological Sciences  Feb. 7  6:00-7:00 PM  283 Galvin Life Science  
Chemistry  Feb. 7  6:30-7:30 PM  262 Stepan Chemistry Hall  
Earth Sciences  Feb.8  6:30-7:30 PM  101 Earth Sciences Building  
Mathematics  Feb. 7  6:30-7:30 PM  201 Mathematics and Computing Center  
Physics  Feb. 7  7:00-8:00 PM  302 Nieuwland Science Hall  
Preprofessional Studies  Feb. 7  7:00-8:00 PM  127 Nieuwland Science Hall  


--~· ·-----~------------~~-----~------.--· 
page6 

Dukakis' wife seeks aid for 'alcohol problem' 
Associated Press 
BOSTON--Kitty Dukakis, the wife of Gov. Michael Dukakis, has entered an alcohol treat­ment program in Newport, R.I., according to a statement issued by the governor's press office Monday. The report blamed the letdown on Dukakis' failed presidential campaign. 
Mrs. Dukakis, 52, has had a history of addictions and chemical dependency but was never known to be dependent on alcohol until the statement was released this afternoon. 
In July 1987, Mrs. Dukakis an­nounced that she had recovered earlier from a 26­year dependency on diet pills. The governor's wife said she had conquered her addiction to 

Bush says he'll stand by Tower 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-President Bush on Monday stood by John Tower, his embattled nominee to be Secretary of Defense, and said the former Texas senator shouldn't have to withdraw be­cause of rumors about his per­sonal life. 
The confirmation process "is taking a little longer than I would like, and yet I think the Senate has got to do what they're doing--looking at these allegations very carefully," Bush said. 
Bush added that if any rumors or innuendo turn out to be "a substantive allegation of this nature, of course it would concern me." 
He said he still endorses Tower, but added, "If some­body comes up with facts, I hope I'm not narrow-minded enough that I wouldn't take a look. But I am not going to deal in the kinds of rumors that I've seen reported and then knocked down and then re­ported and then knocked down." 
Tower was subject of allega­tions that he is a womanizer and has a drinking problem. 
The administration said FBI investigations into the matter had turned up nothing that would prevent Tower from car­rying out his task as head of the Pentagon. 
But the Senate Armed Ser­vices Committee last week put 
FRESHMEN 

amphetamines, which she hid from her husband. 
Dukakis said his wife entered 
the Edgehill Newport facility 
Sunday evening and will stay 
there for about 30 days. 

"Until shortly after election day on Nov. 8, Kitty had never had a problem with alcohol," Dukakis said. 
"Unfortunately, a combina­tion of physical exhaustion, the stress of the campaign effort and the post-election letdown all combined to create a situa­tion in which, on a limited num­ber of occasions while at home, she has used alcohol in ex­cessive quantities," the gover­nor said. 
Dukakis said Mrs. Dukakis decided to enter the well-known clinic voluntarily and said he and his family supported her decision. 
off a Thursday vote on Tower's 
confirmation, saying two new allegations came up that had to be checked out. 
Although Bush said the FBI report was delivered Monday to the committee, the panel's chairman, Sen. Sam Nunn, D­Ga., and ranking Republican, Sen. John Warner, R-Va., said they hadn't seen any such docu­ment. 
Nunn said, "We have not had anything delivered to us, and we are awaiting on it, so the status quo is right where it was." Asked about Bush's statement, Nunn elaborated that "we've done some talking 
back  and  forth  but  we've  
received  no  report  what­ 
soever."  


Two-Buck Tuesday is Back! 
Get any 7" sub tor only $2.00 every Tuesday. No coupon necessary 
Meatbell Monday 504 off 14" or 18" meatball sub 
Tw.-uck Tue.day 
Why Not Wedneadayf Why not order any cold sub and receive 25' off your.purcl)ase 
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
EDUCATION IN THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
The Observer Tuesday, February 7, 1989 
----~~ 
The Observer I Jennifer Oh 

From left: Kurt Gerdenich, Chris Bone, Mike Penman, take a look at the swimsuit issue published by Sports Ho Chung and Brad Grabs take a study break to Illustrated. 
Doctor uses cocaine on patients 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK--Cocaine may not have been in Marcus Welby's black bag, but it has been the drug of choice for decades at Dr. Milton Reder's practice-a balm for Marvin Mitchelson's headaches, Sonny Bono's sciatica, Whitey Ford's sore shoulder and David Bren­ner's bad back. 
The state says cocaine is not good medicine, and told the physician to stop. He has refused. 
"These days cocaine has a bad name. What can I do about that?" asked Reder, who said Monday he has been treating patients with small amounts of cocaine for 40 years. "I say it's the best local anesthetic." 
Brenner, the comedian, ac­cused the state Health Depart­ment and county medical soci­ety of "a witch hunt. ...They can't get Noriega, they can't get the crack dealers a few 

MATEO'S 
blocks away, but they're going after an 89-year-old humanitarian.'' 
Reder uses cocaine, legally purchased from pharmaceuti­cal companies, to treat a vari­ety of maladies. A liquid solu­tion, about 13 percent cocaine, is applied with metal swabs in­serted through the nostrils against a nerve center at the base of the brain. Reder, his patients, and some doctors say the procedure relieves pain, al­though no one is sure why. 
Reder's treatment was nose­cret. He has participated in medical studies and been the subject of newspaper and mag­azine features, which invari­ably focus on his many cele­brated patients. 
The Health Department's ob­jections boil down to these : Reder doesn't always examine patients before treating them; he doesn't make sure they are not former cocaine addicts; and he uses too much cocaine. 

Reder says most of his patients have been examined many times before they come to him, and that he examines those who have not. And he says he administers too small an amount of the drug to hook anyone. 
He vigorously denied a report in the New York Daily News that state investigators "found about a half-dozen patients who went to Reder's office just to get high." 
"Prescribing cocaine for non-specific pains is like taking a sledgehammer to a tack," said Thomas Coffey of the Health Department. 
The state cites the New York County Medical Society's con­clusion that Reder's procedure has "no basis in scientific medicine" and should not be covered by insurance. But the society also conceded the pro­cedure "appears to help some patients" and urged a study of it. 
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 
Tuesday, February 7, 1989 The Observer page 7 

Youth's suicide in jail investigated by police 
Associated Press pushed him against a wall. 
Bevers said the autopsy 

SEYMOUR, Ind.--Inves­showed no bruises on Mitchell's tigators have found no body. evidence of police misconduct In a news release issued Mon­in the arrest of a youth who day, Chandler said he had later hanged himself in a hold­found no evidence of police mis­ing cell, an Indiana State Police conduct during or after the ar­official said Monday. rest. 
Det. William Chandler said, Mitchell's mother, Cathy however, the investigation into Noblitt, had said she learned of the death late Saturday night the arrest shortly after 2 a.m. of Jonathon Mitchell, 17, of Sunday, nearly four hours after Seymour was continuing. her son's arrest. 
Mitchell was arrested on "I asked why wasn't there a 
charges of public intoxication monitor on him and why wasn't and resisting arrest shortly I called, and nobody would give before 10:30 p.m. and put in a me an answer," Noblitt said. holding cell at the Seymour Witnesses at the arcade said Police Department awaiting Mitchell had asked to call his transfer to the Jackson County mother. However, Chandler's Jail in Brownstown, 10 miles investigation found that away. Seymour police officer Jack 
He was found dead in the cell Hauer had offered to let at 11:42 p.m. Police said he had Mitchell phone his parents at hanged himself with his T­police headquarters, but shirt. An autopsy Sunday con­Mitchell had said he did not firmed that Mitchell had died want to call them. 
of strangulation due to hang­The state police investigation ing, according to Dr. Mark also found that a television Bevers, the Jackson County monitor in the holding area was coroner. partially obstructed by a steel 
Some of Mitchell's relatives door that separates the men's accused police of rough treat­and women's areas. ment in making the arrest. Because of the obstruction, 
Friends of the Seymour High the radio operator who watches School sophomore said when the monitor could only see Mitchell was arrested at an ar­Mitchell's legs, which ap­cade, a police officer had him peared normal, police said. in headlock, hit him with a Mitchell hanged himself on a nightstick, pulled his hair and cross-member of the cell bars. 


AP Photo 

renovation made the trip to the east side of the city where they will be renovated and sold to first-time buyers. 
Cold and ice close roads, while weather causes several deaths 
Associated Press since record-keeping began in record low temperatures Mon­1972. day, according to early 
Up to 2 feet of snow surprised Icy roads caused accidents reports. New Mexico ski areas Monday and slowed commuters from Four-wheel-drive vehicles and closed roads, while the Texas and Mississippi to Ken­were used Monday to rescue spread of the arctic cold wave tucky and Pennsylvania to more than 20 people from a hil­turned highways into danger­metropolitan New York City. ltop country club near Austin, ous skating rinks with snow and At least 49 deaths have been Texas, where they had been freezing rain from the deep blamed on the weather since stranded since Saturday by icy South to the Northeast. Jan. 28, most of them in traffic roads. Humane Society mem­
A week after the arctic air accidents or from hypother­bers had gone to the Barton that stunned Alaska crossed mia. In Austin, Texas, a Creek Country Club on Satur­Canada into the Lower 48, ther­paraplegic found dead Sunday day for a fundraiser, said Mic­mometers dropped to 49 apparently had gotten out of his hele Kaufman, chairwoman of degrees below zero at Craig, car and into a wheelchair, the event. Colo., with an unofficial minus which then slid down an icy 52 at nearby Hayden, Colo., and ramp the man was unable to "We had a great time and San Francisco hit a low of 31 climb, police said. raised a lot of money," Kauf­degrees, lowest for February At least 13 cities posted man said. 

~--~~~­
-------~ 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, February 7, 1989 
pageS 

Environment important to healthy eating 


Editor's note: The following is the third in a series offive articles dealing with eating disorders. 
Eating disorders can occur in families where an individual's self­esteem and autonomy are hampered through lack of appropriate affection, support and rigid expectations. A vari­ety of family related factors such as emotional deprivation, obesity, al­coholism, physical depression and other chronic illnesses, as well as sexual abuse can create an environ­ment where individuals often feel un­supported, neglected and out of control. 
Rita Donley Willis Bartlett Marc Milhander 

guest column 
To date, we know that certain familial patterns are often associated with influencing the development of eating disorders, but there is not a single cause. The result of the Notre Dame survey supports this viewpoint. Those respondents who reported serious eating disorders reported sig­nificantly more problems with food in their family and were more likely to have been forced to have sexual contact against their will than those individuals with some symptoms or no symptoms of an eating disorder. 
The risk for a family member devel­oping an eating disorder is increased when: 1) the family places excessive importance on appearance and thin­ness; 2) the family supports the myth that weight can be controlled volition­ally and the responsibility for regulat­ing weight belongs to the daughter or son; 3) family members model weight preoccupation and dieting; and 4) fam­ily members critically evaluate the daughtel/Son's weight, choice of friends, decisions, etc.; and child is evaluated in a critical manner by fam­ily members regarding their weight, friends, decisions, etc., 5) the bound­aries of the family are either too rigid (parents control everything and demand their daughtel/Son be depen­dent on them) or no boundaries exist. Individuals often take on the role of the parent and receive little support or ack­nowledgement except when they per­form a caretaking role. 
The environment we live in can either enhance recovery or contribute to the growing number of individuals who are obsessed with their weight and appear­ance. These individuals begin to engage in dangerous eating behaviors in the pursuit of thinness which has become wrongly associated with happiness and emotional adjustment. Every time someone makes a joke about fat chicks, lets out a howl when a women goes up for ice cream in the dining hall or puts up posters-banners-Signs that demean women by focusing on their appearance or describe them as being "well-built," sends a message that people are only as good as they look. 
The process of recovery from an eating disorder depends on a number of factors. The type, severity, and dura­tion of the disorder, the personality characteristics of the person with the disorder and the availability of com­petent professional assistance all influ­ence the process of recovery. VVhile most persons with an eating disorder know there is a problem, attempts at self-treatment usually lead to repeated failures. Underlying these failures is in­tense ambivalence about "getting bet­ter," because "getting better" might mean: 1) gaining or losing weight; 2) experiencing unwanted and perhaps painful feelings and thoughts; 3) having to learn alternative methods of reduc­ing stress; 4) restructuring relation­ships with significant others; 5) finding a less harmful means of regulating self­esteem; and 6) finding healthier ways of competing and obtaining recognition from others. In short, there are many changes which may need to occur and these changes can be very difficult to accomplish without the support of a competent professional. 
The Notre Dame survey indicated that a large percentage of the respon­dents with eating problems were not receiving professional help. Eighty­seven percent of those with a serious eating disorder and 95 percent of those with symptoms of an eating disorder had not received any psycho­therapeutic help. Reasons given for not seeking help included not being sure they had a problem, not thinking it was serious enough, and being embarassed to admit their difficulties with food. Un­fortunately, these women are strug­gling alone with the problem when pro­fessional help is readily available. 
VVhile there may be some variation in treatment approaches (e.g., behav­ioral or insight oriented therapy; working individually, in a group or with the family; joining a 12-step program such as Overeaters Anonymous, etc.), common therapeutic themes include helping the person with an eating dis­order to: 1) establish a sense of identity which goes beyond body image; 2) reg­ulate self-esteem in ways which are not so bound by the number of the scale; 
3) experience and express painful emo­tional states in appropriate ways; 4) become more assertive; and 5) learn more about the origins of their eating disorder and how eating disorders are perpetuated by our thin-conscious soci­ety. Many of these therapeutic goals are accomplished through individual and group counseling sessions. In addi­tion, nutritional counseling and medi­cal supervision are often included as part of treatment. 
The process of recovery is difficult, emotionally challenging and slow. It takes a great deal of courage because the individual is giving up a coping style which leaves heli'him feeling vulner­able and alone while developing new coping strategies. However, the rewards are enormous because the in­dividual experiences a new freedom when he-She is not hiding in the guilt and shame of histler eating behavior and does not risk further physical prob­lems which can range from minimal to life threatening. 
Students come to the University Counseling Center (UCC) each year ex­pressing concern about a friend, rela­tive, or roommate and ask how they can be helpful. VVe recommend that they approach the person they are con­cerned about in a caring, gentle and non-judgemental way and specifically state why they are concerned about their eating behavior and suggest they receive a professional assessment. Of­ten, this type of intervention ·results in the individual getting the type of needed support. If your friend refuses to get help, be friendly and open to the possibility that he-She may want your help in the future. Recognize that friends and relatives cannot ·cure the person and yoll: need to let the individ­ual take responsibility for what is eaten instead of monitoring food intake or at­tempting to force them to eat. 
Individuals with eating problems of­ten feel embarrassed about their prob­lem, and therefore wish to keep the problem a secret from others. Despite their wish not to let anyone know about the problem, recovering means having the courage to admit that one may have a problem, and seeking out professional help. On campus, the UCC, located on the third floor of the Health Center, is staffed by psychologists and counselors who are trained and experienced in the treatment of eating disorders. The staff is also aware of community resources (both inpatient and outpatient) and can help you (or your friend) find an ap­propriate treatment facility. All con­tacts with the staff are kept strictly con­fidential in accordance with the laws and ethical guidelines set forth by the Indiana State Board of Psychology and the American Psychological Associa­tion. 
In summary, we do know that family and extended family dynamics have a significant influence on creating and maintaining eating disorders. VVe know that in order to be of some assistance to those who experience eating disor­ders, we need to be sensitive to the ways in which we may contribute to the per­petuation of "the problem." Successful treatment is available to those who have eating disorders. So, the choice becomes ours as to whether we want to create and be a part of an environment which is either sensitive to the needs of those whose self-esteen is regulated by their weight or be part of an environ­ment that reflects lack of knowledge, insensitivity and encourages eating dis­orders. 
Rita Donley, Ph.D., and Marc Milhander, Ph.D., are psychologists and Willis Bartlett, Ph.D., is Coordina­tor of Training at the University Coun­seling Center. 
Viewpoint would like to occasionally highlight quotes from faculty members, students and readers. So if you or someone you know says something intellectually stimulating, brilliantly funny, or clearly controversial, send the quote to Viewpoint, P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

WOW... OOt5 TEU.M& THI5TAKe ABOUT IT. M&BACK... WH0'5TH& 
Off{)(~ 
I 

Quote of the Day "What matters is not the 
idea  a  man  holds,  but  
the  depth  at  which  he  
holds it."  

Ezra Pound 


Editorial Board O~erations Board 
Edotor-m-Choef Chns Murphy Busmess Manager John Oxnder
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
Managmg Editor Chns Donnelly Advertosing Desogn Manager Molly Killen News Editor Regis Coccoa Advertisong Manager londa Goldschmidt News Editor Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager Bernadene Shotts
The Observer os the ondependent newspaper published by the students of the Unoversoty of Viewpoint Edo(c;. .... Dave Bruner Systems Manager Mark RidgewayNotre Dame du lac and Saont Mary's College. It does not necessanty reflect the pollcoes or 
Sports Editor . Marty Strasen Controller Todd Hardoman
the adminiStration of eother institution. The news is reported as accurately and obtectovely as Accent Edotor Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager Marga Brunsposs1ble Unsigned editonals represent the opinoon of the ma,ority of the Editonal Board 
Samt Mary's Editor Sandy Cerimete
Commentanes. letters and the lnsocle Column present the views of theor authors. Column Photo Edotor Michael Moran space os available to all members of the community and the tree expression of varyong oponoons on campus. through letters. os encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 

Accent
Tuesday, February 7, 1989 
page 9 

'Her Alibi' proven guilty of foolishness 
JANICE ARCHER accent writer 

0 
ften, movie producers will rely on the fame and appeal of certain stars to carry a film to the top ten list. Apparently, "Her Alibi" is one of these movies. 
Directed by Bruce Beres­ford, this responsibility falls on Tom Selleck and Paulina Porizkova. Selleck's television and movie fame, and Poriz­kova's renown as a high fas­hion model make a combina­tion that would appear to result in a blockbuster hit. However, this comedy moves beyond funny to simply foolish. 
The plot revolves around a novelist, Philip Blackwood, (played by Selleck) who is under pressure from his pub­lishers to produce a new volume in his Peter Swift mystery series. Blackwood, who has not written a decent novel since his wife left him three years ago, finds himself unable to produce anything worthy of publication. 
Blackwood visits the local courthouse, sitting in on trials for storyline inspirations. He first sees Nina Ionescu (played by Porizkova), on trial for murdering a Romanian student with a pair of scissors. Immediately fal­ling in love with her, he gives Nina a false alibi. He claims that they have been having an affair, and she was with him the night of the murder. 
His editor corroborates the fabrication due to Black­wood's insistence that a best­seller is sure to result from this adventure. 
Nina and Blackwood move to his home in the country, where he can work on his new novel and avoid suspicion concerning their false story. But life is not idyllic for this poor couple. The Romanian KGB is parked outside the house, and they follow Nina wherever she goes. 
A visit from the lieutenant presiding over the murder investigation plants seeds of doubt in Blackwood's mind. He is reminded that if he were to die, Nina's alibi would remain intact. From this point on, Blackwood is torn between his feelings for Nina and fear for his life. 
The movie becomes a series of misunderstandings, acci­dents, and mishaps that leave the viewer and Blackwood wondering just who Nina is. The eventual conclusion is so incredibly ridiculous that one is left feeling shock and dis­belief. 
For Porizkova, previously seen in magazine ads and swimsuit calendars, "Her Alibi" is her second movie. Although her performance appears to be stilted, even an accomplished actress would have had difficulty with a part such as this. Most of her camera shots were at angles that accentuated her looks. This was expected, however, after her first appearance on screen in the courtroom. Soft 

music began to play in the 
background, with the action 
filmed in slow motion. 
Selleck puts forth an ade­quate effort as the lonely Blackwood. Coming off his recent smash hit, "Three Men and A Baby", he could have chosen a better follow-up role. His infatuation with Nina is hilarious at times, but far­fetched at others. He is able, though, to put humor into the emotions of a man desperately attracted to a wo­man he believes may be trying to kill him. 
Most movie fans realize that trouble lies ahead when the first scene of a film is of a policeman climbing a flight of stairs to a murder site, muttering to himself, "Why can't anyone get murdered on the ground floor?" 
"Her Alibi" did have its funny moments, but these scenes were amusing due to the sheer foolishness of the plot development. This film should be passed over, with fans of Selleck and Porizkova staying with reruns of Mag­num P .I. and magazine covers. 

aesthetics and understanding which are often lost when an­other takes on the task of in­terpretation. 

The days of Robert Frost filling Carnegie Hall and T .S. Eliot reciting "The Was­teland" to festival crowds in Yankee Stadium are behind us, but the Sophomore 
Calvin and Hobbes 
Q\J\CK, 110BB~S.' Wt.'V( GJT Ttl \.1\Dt.' MOM 1;1\l\) DAD GOT ~SALYK RJR 0\JR B~'3'! SITKR ~«AI~! />.~'\! 'iO\J '1\\{0W 'N\1~1 TTIAT 

A literary great t 
Japanese prejudice 
GERRY SCIMECA Literary Festival for the I suppose every nation strong sense of accent writer second time in as many has racial prejudice nationalism, which, in it­nights offers yet another among its people. For Ger­self, would not be bad ex­" H eard melodies are unique and world-renowned mans in the 1930's, it was cept that is can lead to 
sweet," Keats said. voice in poetry, reading his Jews. For Americans, it very strong and deep Though his statement is not own works. has often been blacks. For rooted prejudice. immediately apparent as a Reginald Gibbons is a poet Japanese, it is Koreans. Prejudice here arises out glorious insight, it does say who has established himself much about the elements of by transcending many tradi­
MATT CLEARY 

tional genres of poetry in Reginald Gibbons making the human character the center of focus. As a he takes it champion of the human spirit, greedily, thankfully, the characters he creates glad. take hold of you like good fic­The title poem of his newest tion, such as in the poem collection, "Saints," features "Her Love": dramatic dialogues by a se­
A man whose son ries of eccentric and often ne­has died has glected characters who range to forgive the boys who from preachers to murderers, still live, when they come told in a style that defies up the street slowly in modern description. a ragged group, The bold sweep of styles talking, three and subjects which Gibbons with mitts, one ambitiously embraces in his 
with the ball ... work has won him not only ...But the many fellowships and Quar­woman he loves terly Review rewards, but a says we are not highly coveted Houghton Mif­cups poured empty flin award for new poetry. and there's no His performance tonight, at 8 measure in being mad. p.m. will fill the library So when she auditorium with the offers him what melodious voice of one of our she can, her love, most talented and vivid poets. 
Bill Watterson 

RI@T.' t\C> TV. t-IC> ~RSI~G Aii.<YJ~D. NOJ111Nf S\\'t. J\l'SI ~ IN ~~0 SH\DS \JS STAAIGW\ 
TO BE.D.' 

'Letters from the Orient' 
They have the same stories of two concepts. First, as 
here that you could hear is common with all 
anywhere about some other prejudices, is its origin in 
race; Koreans smell differ­ignorance. 
ent, they are less intelli­The second reason for 
gent, or they have criminal Japanese prejudice is 
tendencies. pride. As anyone would be, But the Japanese preju­the Japanese are proud of dice is not limited to their amazing transforma­Koreans, although it may tion from a war-torn, small be slightly more focused in island nation to one of the that area. The Japanese most important economic prejudice seems to be a powers in the world. And, feeling of superiority over unfortunately, this success not only Koreans, but over is sometimes attributed to all other races. the superiority of the Japa­
For Americans, one of nese over other races. Like the most outstanding char­a student body with an un­acteristics of Japan is its defeated football team, homogeneity. About 95 per­their heads tend to swell. cent of the Japanese popu­Or at least mine has. lation is of Japanese origin. I am by no means trying 
In my opinion, this is an to imply that the Japanese advantage. Energy that are some hatefully, spiteful Americans have to put into people, and to believe so 
harmonizing its different would be to miss the point peoples is not expended in of this column. Indeed, the Japan. The feeling of unity people I have met in Japan, is so innate that the popu­as a whole, have been the lation generally works for most courteous and helpful the good of the country. people I could ever imag­
There is, however, one ine. I have never been di­disadvantage to this situa­rectly confronted with any tion. The homogeneity type of hatred; the poeple leads to an extremely here are simply too polite. 
Tuesday, February 7, 1989

page 10 The Observer 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The NO crew team will hold a general meeting for all varsity and novice members Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the Montgomery Auditorium of LaFortune. Bring checkbooks because dues will be paid. -The Observer 
Women's indoor soccer signups are due Wednesday at the NVA office. Teams con­sist of five field players plus a goalie. Register in person at the NVA office. Call 239-6100 for more information. -The Observer 
The NO Men's Volleyball Club hosts Aquinas College tonight at 7:30 in the Joyce ACC Pit. Admission is free. -The Observer 
The NO Sailing Club holds a meeting tonight at 6:30 in room 204 of O'Shaughnessy. The club set its spring regatta schedule last weekend at a meeting at Kent State. -The Ob­server 
The NVA downhill ski trip has been rescheduled to Friday. The bus leaves the li­brary circle at 5:30p.m. New signees are wel­come. The $17 fee covers equipment, a lift ticket and transportation. Register at the NVA office. -The Observer 
A racquetball clinic will be offered by NVA tonight from 7 to 8 for beginning and intermediate players. Noel O'Sullivan will cover shots and strategy. Meet at Racquetball Court 2 of the Joyce ACC. -The Observer 
Irish Outdoors is holding the spring semester information meeting Thursday at 
7:30 p.m. in the Notre Dame room on the second floor of LaFortune. Plans for the spring break trip to the TeTons will be reviewed. Any questions should be directed to Shaun Foley at 271-0758. -The Observer 
Student managers: An informational meeting is tonight at 7 in the Joyce ACC auditorium for all those interested in being student managers. Enter through Gate 2. Anybody who cannot attend the meeting should call the managers' office at 239-6482. 
-The Observer 
SMC co-ed intramural floor 
hockey captains have a meeting tonight at 6 at the Angela Athletic Facility lounge. Floor hockey games will be on Thursday nights. For more information, call284-5549. -The Observer 
The NDSMC Lacrosse Club will hold a meeting tonight at 7 in the Angela Athletic Facility lounge for any women interested in forming such a team. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball XVIII has an open assistant commissioner position. Any freshman or sophomore interested in being assistant commissioner can pick up an appli­cation at the student government secretary's office on the the second floor of LaFortune. Applications are due today. Any questions should be directed to Mike at x3305. -The Ob­server 
Calcavecchia now staking his claim 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES-Among his peers, Mark Calcavecchia has a reputation as one of the better drivers on the PGA tour. 
But it was his short game, Calcavecchia said, "that saved me again" in his head-to-head duel with old nemesis Sandy Lyle in the Los Angeles Open. 
"I'm a good chipper and put­ter. I work on it. I work on chip­ping and putting more than anything. It paid off. It saved me," Calcavecchia said last weekend after scoring his second victory in three weeks. 
Lyle, who beat Calcavecchia in the 1988 Masters with his his­toric bunker shot on the 18th hole at Augusta National, had a two-shot lead going into the final round at the Riviera Country Club course. 
But he ran into some up-and­down magic from the rough­hewn man with the delicate touch around the greens. 
Calcavecchia missed seven greens over the final 18 holes, including five in a row on the front. 
He played those seven holes 1-under-par. He got it up and down for par on six of them and chipped in for birdie on the 12th, holing out from about 25 feet. 
"When I chipped in, I let myself think, just for a minute, 'That's what happens when you win golf tournaments,"' Cal­cavecchia said. 
He was right. 
He went on to a one-stroke victory that confirmed his po­sition as one of the most accom­plished young players in the game. 
"I didn't know I had it in me," said the husky 28-year-old who won the Australian Open in November, scored a seven­shot triumph in Phoenix and now leads the American tour in earnings with $358,952. 
"I'd hoped to get off to a good start this year, but this is amazing," Calcavecchia said. 
It also may prompt him to change his plans for the year. 
"I hadn't planned to play as much this year as I did last year," said Calcavecchia, who made 33 appearances on the American tour in 1988. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is
Classifieds 
3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 
Typlng.Wordproceulng 237·1949 
TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 2n·7406 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for CASHII Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash or Credit avaifablel PANDORA'S BOOK 
808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 233-2342 
TYPING: Prole..lonatly done by Paralegal 272-5337 evenings 
l LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: 30 Macintosh diskettes from my car in C1. The importance of those disks cannot be exagerated. $$$ for informa­tion leading to the return of them. Please call # 4936 or 289· 1 628. Or if you already have them. please return them to 230 Knott Hall. No questions asked. 
BANDANA:LOST IN CCE BLDG LIGHT PINK WITH BLUE PRINT STATING "SKI-LOVE-LAND" AROUND THE EDGES. MEANS A LOT TO ME SO IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL HEAT· HER MAVERICK AT 284-4052. REWARD!!! 
LOSTt-gold high school class ringll any info PLEASE contact Jim x4048! 
LOST-BROWN HORN RIMMED GLASSES!! CAN'T SEE SO CALL SHANA 2691 !! 
LOST: LONG BLACK WOOL SCARF SOMEWHERE BETWEEN CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS AND ALUMNI HALL TUES. NIGHT. PLEASE CALL DAVE AT 1138. 
LOST: A green L.L. Bean Bookpack from NOH on Thurs. 2-2-89.1 need my lipstick I! Please return. Maraya # 1704. 
LOST: TWO GOLD EARRINGS, ONE BETWEEN GRACE AND ST. ED'S, AND THE OTHER IN A GOLD COUCH. PLEASE SEE GINA IN 416 BADIN IF FOUND. VERY GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. 
i:OST";··ai~··io·-;,;~··;~i;-·N"o..io··~~d 
lollsaourt Drlvara Ucanse on Wadnes· day at JACC. Call Marla 283-2823. 
FOUND: KEYS AT THE KEENAN REVIEW TICKET DISTRIBUTION. IT HAD A SILVER SPOON HANDLE AT­TACHED. CALL JEFF X-18n. 
FOR RENT 

HOUSE FOR RENT 3 BLOCKS FROM NO 3 BEDROOMS-$475-MO 516 NAPOLEON 232·3616 
6 BDRM HSE AVAILABLE 89-90 SCHOOL YEAR. 67SMO. 234-9364. 
FOUR FLAGS FARM BED 'N BREAK· FAST JUST 20 MINS. FROM NO. IDEAL FOR ALL NO ACTIVITIES. RESERVE NOW FOR ALL UPCOMING EVENTS. 611>-471-5711. 
HAVE YOUR PARENTS STAY AT THE IRISH B&B DURING JPW. LOCATED 2 Ml FROM N.D. FOR INFO. RING 272­

n38. 
ROOMS FOR RENT. ALSO 2 BDRM HOME 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. 272-6306 
2 ROOM EFFICIENCY SINGLE PER· SON 288·0955 
WANTED 

NO Law school students to be reps lor Kaplan-SMH Bar Review courseo. Earn free bar review course plus SS's. Call 272-4135. Ask lor Sue. 
Summer job intetView-Average earnings $3,100. Gain valuable experience in ad­vertising ,sales and public relations selling yellow page adVertising for the University of Notre Dame Telephone Directory. Op­portunity to travel nationwide. Complete training program in North Carolina. Ex­penses peid training program in Chapel Hill, NC. Looking for enthustastic,goal ori­
ented students for challenging well­paying summer job. Some internships available. Interview on campus Monday, February 13th. Sign up at Career and Placement SetVices in the lower level of the Hesburgh Library. 
Want to Improve Your CAREER?Be Your Own Boss? Need Part Time Income? I Have An OUTSTANDING OPPORTU­NITY with Network 2000 an Authorized Independent Marketer of US SPRINT long distance setVicas. Call Oliver 234· 5723 Independent Marketing Rep. 
Rental Represenative-Ryder Truck Rental, 2000 hrs per week, weekends call 2n-3s5o 
Afternoon babysitter needed. 2 or 3 days per week, 3:30-6:00 pm. Must have own car. Call 288-6428 eves after 6 or weekend. 
FOR SALE 

Ia It True You Can Buy Jaapa lor S44 through the U.S. government? Get the facta todayl Call 1-312-742·1142 Ex­1.7318 
For Sale-nearly new HP1 5C. Best offer. Call LAURA, 2568. 
MCAT MATERIALS FOR SALE Call Dr. John at 341 9 or risk failing .... 
MCAT MATERIALS FOR SALE Call Dr. John at 3419 or risk failing .... 
................................................................ 
For Sale: SYNTHESIZER call Joe 1865 
;:;;;;h~i~~--;:~·;~i~;;i~·s·r:~iio"2:..:i~Y"~9;o··· 
78 celica hatchback, 5 speed, air sun roof, 63k, mechanically sound, $950, call 239-7178, 8 to 5 
TWA $200 VOUCHER Best Offer Kevin x2334 
TICKETS 
I NEED 8 LOUISVILLE GA TICKETS CALL Julie 4929 
Need 2 Louisville GAs-Luara # 2535 
HELP I 1 need TWO GA's for the Louisville gamell Ask for John at x3459. 
................................................................ 
PERSONALS 
LAW SCHOOL: Start your Bar Review early. Kaplan-SMH ravlewo lo many states available hera In South Bend. Transfer beck home lor summer. Dlo­counto lor Kaplan LSAT alumni. Reserve before March 2 Call 272-4135. Ask lor Sue. 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-BOD-343-8373 
SPRING BREAK DAYTONA. Spend 7ntridaya at Spring Break'• HOT­TEST resort, The Clarendon Plaza home of Penrod's'The Plantation Club and the largest pool deck ON THE BEACH! $195 par parson limited space. Call today Breakaway Touro 1· 
800-444-7384. 
JOJO, HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY. ARE YOU GOING TO GO TO ANY BARS? 
LOVE, 
ANDREW 

HAPPY 21ST, GEORGE YOU ARE THE GREATEST! LOVE, GRAMMA CASEY 
GEORGE, NOW YOU CAN USE YOUR REAL LICENSE. HAPPY 21ST. 
ROB 

GEORGE, 
MOM MADE ME WRITE THIS. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 
LOVE, 
MATT 

BRIGHTEN YOUR LIFEII MEET THAT SOMEONE SPECIAL THROUGH OUR SINGLES CLUB. INTRO SINGLES CLUB, BOX 3006, BOSTON, MA 02130. 
LOVE 
Remember Valentina's Day Feb. 14th 
A Gilt from The Country Harvaater says I LOVE YOU In a spacial way. 
Located In the LaFortune Student Canter Basement Hours: 12-5:30 Mon-Frf. 
ONE-WAY FLIGHT TO BOSTON ON MARCH 3 LISA X2841 
WED, FEB 8TH INCINQ AT CENTER STREET only $2 
WOMEN'S CARE CENTER PHONE-A· THON 
FEB. 6 THRU FEB 9 AND FEB. 13 THRU FEB. 16 CALL KEVIl~ BELTON AT THE CEN­TER 232-n81 FOR MORE DETAILS 
Singing Valentines!!! Glee Club Singing Valentines Let us Serenade Your Sweetie I 
OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo. Summer,Yr.round.AII Countrles,AII fields. Free Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52­IN04, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. 
Desperately seeking Student Night at University Park MaUl 
Psst! Are you going with Jessica to the mall on Thursday? 
hi ag 

............................................... 
SOFT PORN ALERT SECTION 1-B OF CAVANAUGH RE· QUESTS THAT ALL PERVERTED MEN OF NO PROCLAIM THEIR "BAD A TTl· TUDES" ABOUT WOMEN BY PLACING THE SWIMSUIT ISSUE IN THEIR DORM WINDOW!ll BY THE WAY DON'T FORGET TO MAKE YOUR COMPARISONS! 
Murph-We still like you, even though you're lame. 
-The Observer 

.....SENIORS••••• BARNABY'S $3-ALL YOU CAN EAT TUESDAY,FEB.7 5PM-7PM .....SENIORS••••• 
t•••*SENIORS••••• CHICAGO TRIP WED., FEB. 15 $12 SIGNUPS WED.-FRI. (FEB. 8-10) IN SENIOR CLASS OFFICE 
•••••SENIORS••••• 
M-RESPONSE? YES. INTERESTING? NO. HERE IT IS REGARDLESS.SO 
TELL ME... WHATS ON YOUR MIND?­BLOND GUY Wt GLASSES 
"""SENIORS'•SENIORS""SENIORS""" TONIGHT $4 ALL YOU CAN EAT at BARNABY'S 5-7p.m. 
Hey DAN THE MANI Thanks for a great time at POP FARLEY, and thanks for daisies. Stay out of trouble. REMEMBER: study hard for those A"s! 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE 

ND-SMC VALENTINE BALLOON SALE SEND YOUR BOYFRIEND, SWEET· HEART OR WHATEVER, A BALLOON FOR VALENTINE'S DAY. ON SALE IN THE DINING HALLS. 
FRESHMEN SKI TRIP SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 19 AT SWISS VALLEY TICKETS GO ON SALE FEB 7-10 IN THE FRESHMAN OFFICE ON 2ND FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE. 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL HIOQ-343-8373 
May the sacred heart of Jesus be adored, glorified. loved, and presetVed through­out the world now and forever. Sacred heart of Jesus have mercy on us. St. Jude help of the hopeles pray for us. Say 9x-day for 9 days. Has not been known to fail. Must publish. Thanks St. Jude ... T 
TOP TEN JEN QUOTES 
10. I HAVE TO CALL MY DATEI 
9. FABULOUS!FABULOUS! 
8. I"M SUCH A LUSH! 
7. MODERATION (?) IS THE KEY. 
6. I KILL ME! 

5. I"M BUZZED 
4. GOOD POINT-WELL TAKEN 
3. G"NIGHT JOHN BOY! 
2. CARPET TONGUE 
1. "A DRUNK GIRL'S ACTIONS ARE A SOBER GIRL'S DREAMS!" 
WE LOVE YOU, JEN!III 
To my friends 

For all your compassion, support, and prayers following the loss of my grandmother, I am deeply grateful. Chenoa T opash 
OPEN COMPETITON lor all students 
Interested In being on the Model UN 
team going to Waohlngton D.C. In 
April. A simulation will be held In 124 
Hayes-Healy Thursday Feb. 9 at7-9:30 
pm. Call Matt 1542 lor Info. 
AVOID THE RUSHI COME IN SOON TO TYPE IN YOUR VALENTINE'S CLASSIFIEDS. 
Happy belated b-day, Suzanne! Love, Schmoo, Rosi, Star, Bennett, Miss, and Asako. Have a SCAP of a timel P.S. RUS? 
Driving to IU or Indy this weekend? Want a rider to share expenses? Call 4072 
SAMIRA, PETER, JOSE, DENNIS, VIC and SIONG : you're the ABSOLUTE BEST 1111 (bu1 what else is new?) 
How about a little trim on that mustache. Ron??? EEEEEEEEEEEeeeee!! 
Staph Thanks for a great formal. You're a real sweetheart! Mike 
Mark Taylor How do you sleep at night knowing that someone loves you in New Orleans? ANTONIA KNOWS ABOUT BRIDGET. 
Remember your VALENTINE! or friend. Buy CANDYGRAMS! at both dining halls Wed-Fri. ONLYI!I $1 
CANDYGRAMS'!! 
CANDYGRAMSIII 
RIDER NEEDED-Dnver going to Va. Tech needs rider bound for western Vir­ginia or anywhere on the way this weekend. Let's make a deal so I can deliver a valentine in person Call Vince at 4074 
ATTEN. MIKE K. LOOK ALIKE CON­TEST HOLDERS, I DON'T HAVE BLOND HAIR 
I"M NOT 5"10". AND I HAVE A DANDY DISPOSITION SINCERELY, MIKE K. 
TO OUR BEAUTIFUL DAUGHTER AND SISTER, DENISE BOYCHUK, WHOSE JUST BEING THERE, BRINGS SUN­SHINE INTO A ROOM. MUCH LOVE AND HAPPINESS ON YOUR 22nd BIRTHDAY ON FEB. 6th AND MAY THE COMING YEAR BE THE YEAR TO MAKE ALL YOUR DREAMS COME TRUE. LOVE, MOM,DAD, AND KAY 
Heavens to Betsy Boo Frank-a-Lin Is 211 
REGIS HOW ABOUT THURSDAY? 
LAST CHANCE 
to algn up lor 
DAYTONA BEACH $205 Sign up Wad. Feb 8, 7:30 In room 118 N.S.H. 
DAYTONA BEACH 
FINAL PAYMENTS 
AND ROOMMATE LISTS DUE WED FEB 8, 7:30 IN ROOM 118 N.S.H. BRING YOUR ARENDS, LAST CHANCE TO SIGN-UP. 
WANTED: BASS PLA YEA for Hard Rock outfrt playing originals and some covers Must PLAY BASS and show for rehear­sal. Call Don x3068, or Paul x1 847. 
ITALIAN CLUB MOVIE "MOONSTRUCK" WEDNESDAY, FEB 8 8:00 PW PARTY ROOM 
Well San. we can't say we've never kept secrets from you ... WELCOME DEN­NIS!!! Love Rozei,Mimi, Rose. 
HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY, TRACY!!!! THE TEENS MAY BE OVER, BUT THE FUN HAS JUST BEGUNII LOVE, KER· RY. 

Tuesday, February 7, 1989 
page 11 
... 

Louisville beaten; OSU rips Purdue 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, KY--George McCloud made two foul shots with five seconds left and No. 12 Florida State held off No. 4 Louisville 81-78 Monday night. 
Pervis Ellison, who was out for two games with a knee in­jury, returned and led Louis­ville with 19 points. But LaBradford Smith missed an off-balance, 3-point try at the buzzer that cost the Cardinals a chance to tie. 
Florida State, 18-2, leads the Metro Conference at 6-1. Louis­ville fell to 16-4 and 5-l. 
Tony Dawson scored 21 points, McCloud had 20, Irving Thomas 18 and Derrick Mitchell 11 to lead the Semi­noles. Thomas added a career­high 17 rebounds. 
File Photo Smith and Felton Spencer Pervls Ellison (blocking the shot) returned to the Florida State from upsetting the Cardinals last each scored 12 for Louisville, Louisville lineup last night, scoring 19 points. But night In Freedom Hall. A college basketball roun­Tony Kimbro had 11 and Kenny his heralded quick comeback could not prevent dup appears at right. Payne 10. 
SU 85, Seton Hall 79
No. 8 OU wrestlers nip Irish 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­
Only three points separate ND from upset 
-Sherman Douglas scored 28 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's wrestling team, ranked 13th nationally in the latest Amateur Wrestling News poll, lost a 19-16 decision to eighth-ranked Oklahoma Friday at Norman, Okla. 
Oklahoma already this season has defeated defending national champion Arizona State and current No. 1· Okla­homa State. 
Notre Dame (7-2) had an un­usual evening on the mat. Three of the team's most talented wrestlers--Andy Radenbaugh, Jerry Durso, Pat 
Intimacy Relationships Masturbation 

Boyd and Mark Gerardi--all lost. Freshmen Marcus Gowens and Chuck Weaver, who had suffered recent slumps, both came away with victories. The dual meet was a homecoming of sorts for the two of them. Gowens is from Del City, Okla., and Weaver hails from Midwest City, Okla. 
Other winners for Notre Dame included Todd Layton, who recorded a pin, and Chris Geneser. 
The No. 13 ranking is the highest the Irish have been in some time. Notre Dame was 
TOPICS: 
Homosexuality Heterosexuality Loneliness 

OU 126, Iowa St. 97 
NORMAN, Okla.--Stacey King scored 33 points and Skeeter Henry got 16 of his 18 in the second half as No.5 Okla­homa broke away from Iowa State 126-97 Monday night. 
The Sooners, coming off a loss to Oklahoma State on Sat­urday that knocked them out of the No. 1 spot, shook off a list­less first half to score 81 second-half points, a record for a Big Eight game. 
OSU 70, Purdue 58 
COLUMBUS, Ohio--Jay Bur­son scored 26 points and No. 16 Ohio State beat Purdue 70-58 Monday night in a fight-marred Big Ten Conference game. 
Ohio State, 16-5 overall and 5-3, moved into a four-way tie for second place in the league behind Indiana. Purdue dropped to 10-12 and 3-6. 
Ohio State broke open a physical and close game mid­way through the second half soon after a fight broke out. Purdue's Kip Jones and Grady Mateen of Ohio State were ejected from the game at the 
11:59 mark of the second half for trading elbows and then punches with Ohio State leading 41-36. 
In Monday's other games, Fordham rammed Navy 66-55, Holy Cross stopped Massachu­setts 98-90, Rhode Island tripped Duquesne 85-78, Temple ripped St. Bonaventure 88-61, Miami edged South Florida 106-104 in double over­time, South Carolina trashed Southern Mississippi 105-63, Siena doubled up on Colgate 109-54 and Wake Forest defeated Coppin State 69-52. 
Also, Virginia knocked off Georgia Tech 88-81, Penn State edged Lehigh 66-64, Evansville slipped past Southern Illinois 89-87, Florida A&M beat Mor­gan State 2-0 in a forfeited game, Jacksonville bombed West Georgia 101-82, Memphis State whipped Tennessee State 85-63, Mercer downed Stetson 83-76, Creighton bounced Cleveland State 92-82 and St. Louis hammered West Illinois 92-57. 
ranked 19th in the pre-season poll and got as high as 14th last season. Prior to last year, Notre Dame's previous ap­pearance in the Top 20 oc­curred during the 1978-79 season. 
Notre Dame next faces Miami (Ohio) Wednesday at 8 
p.m. at the Joyce ACC. The Irish have another dual meet at the JACC Friday, when the Indiana Hoosiers come to town. 
The Irish defeated Miami 40­3 last season but have lost to Indiana each of the last .two years. 
points and No. 9 Syracuse built a big lead and then held off a furious rally to beat No. 11 Seton Hall85-79 Monday night, giving the Orangemen their seventh consecutive 20-game winning season. 
Stephen Thompson added 23 points as Syracuse, 20-4, ·won its sixth straight this season and 17th in a row over Seton Hall, 19-4. It also put the Oran­gemen and Pirates into a tie for second place in the Big East with 6-4 marks, three games behind Georgetown. 
Valpo 104, Butler 83 
VALPARAISO--Jim Ford scored 36 points, including seven 3-pointers, and grabbed 11 rebounds as Valparaiso beat Butler 104-83 and broke the NCAA division I record for 3­point baskets Monday night. 
The Crusaders, 7-12, made 19 of 32 3-point attempts, breaking the record of 17 they shared with Oklahoma. The two teams combined for 29 3-point bas­kets, breaking the old record of 25 set by Oklahoma and Ne­braska in 1987.

~~SALES~~ 
REPRESENTATIVES 
Salem Carpets, a major manufacturer and distributor, is rapidly ex­Sexuality: Primary 
panding nationwide. This stunning progress has created the need Genital 
to expand our Sales Force. Excellent entry level opportunities are Affective 
available to qualified individuals who are ready for a fresh, new challenge within a productive company. 
These positions require strong communication skills and a high• How do I relate to God in the context of the gift of my sexuality? 
degree of self-motivation. You will be required to participate in an 
approximately 8 week training program where you will be ex­
posed to our manufacturing processes, customer relations, sales 
• 
How does intimacy in my life reveal God to me? 

• 
How do the yearnings of my life tell me about God's love for me? 


techniques. The initial training period will take place in the Chat­tanooga area, however, will lead to relocation shortly thereafter. 
• 
How can I come to understand my sexuality more broadly and deeply? Salem Carpets offers an excellent compensation and benefits

• 
How does understanding my sexuality free me to choose what is most 

package.
life giving at this time in my life? 
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS Will BE HELD ON
WHEN: February 24 (6:30) · February 26 (noon) 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21st. TO SCHEDULE AN CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office 
INTERVIEW, CONTACT THE PLACEMENT OFFICE. 
(Badin Hall) 239·5242 

SIGN-UP: February 6·17, 1989 
COST: $12.00 
• 

P.O. Box 220 Ringgold, GA 30736
a=Fk:E Cf 0fv11'U5 MNISTRY 
equal opportunity employer m/f 




-----~-~---~---~-----~~---. 
page 12 

These Arizona players have reason to celebrate after being named the No. 1 college basketball team In the country In yesterday's AP poll. But the Wildcats had better savor their ranking: 
Top-ranked teams can't stand prosperity 
Associated Press second 1n three polls this season, received 17 first-place 
For the fourth consecutive votes, while the Tigers, whose week a new team claimed the No. 3 ranking is their highest No. 1 spot in The Associated of the season, were named on Press college basketball poll. the top of 12 ballots. Arizona went to the top of the Louisville, 16-3, was fourth rankings on Monday, a position with three first-place votes and the Wildcats held for six weeks 1,090 points, just 14 more than last season. Oklahoma, 18-3, which dropped 
Arizona jumped from its No. from the No. 1 spot but still 4 ranking last week after the received two first-place votes. top three teams--Oklahoma, Il­Louisville was seventh last linois and North Carolina--all week. lost at least one game while the North Carolina, 18-4, dropped Wildcats were beating Califor­from third to sixth after losing nia and Washington. to Clemson in its only game last 
Duke had been No. 1 in the week. The Tar Heels were the preseason voting and for the only other team to receive a first nine polls of the regular first-place vote as their 911 season before the Blue Devils points included one vote as No. suffered three straight losses. 1. 
Illinois took over the top spot for the first time in 37 years Illinois, last week's No. 2 and held it just one week as the team, Iowa, Syracuse and Mic­Fighting Illini lost at Min­higan round out the Top Ten. nesota. 
Oklahoma, which also The Fighting Illini lost two jumped from No. 4 to No. 1 games last week and the losses when it assumed the top spot, to Purdue and Iowa dropped held the post for just last week them to 18-3. Illinois received as the Sooners fell to Oklahoma 832 votes, while Iowa, 17-4, im­State on the road. proved one place from last 
Arizona, 17-2, received 30 of week with 747 points, just seven the 65 first-place votes cast by more than Syracuse, 19-4, the nationwide panel of which had been 14th last week sportswriters and before beating Villanova and broadcasters and 1,226 points Pittsburgh by a combined 56 to reclaim the No. 1 ranking it points. held for six weeks in a seven­Michigan, 17-4, and Seton week period in the middle of Hall, 19-3. switched places last season. from last week's poll as the 
The Wildcats will be put to Wolverines had 726 points and the test right away as the No. the Pirates 658. 1 team as they play a Pac-10 Following Seton Hall in the conference game at Oregon on Second Ten were Florida State, Thursday before travelling to Indiana, Duke, West Virginia, Oklahoma for a nationally Ohio State, North Carolina televised game on Sunday. State, Stanford, Nevada-Las 
Georgetown, 17-2, jumped Vegas and Georgia Tech. from sixth to second with 1,180 points, 11 more than Missouri, Georgia Tech, 14-6, rejoins 20-3, which moved up from the Top Twenty after a three­fifth. Georgetown, which was week absence. 
Tuesday, February 7, 1989The ObseNer 
, Ball State is 'No.1' in NCAA Division I 
Associated Press percentage, "but we can't get caught up in the numbers. We 
MUNCIE, Ind. -Ball State have seven more conference became the winningest team in games left, the conference NCAA Division I basketball tournament and we hope to get . over the weekend, and the Car-a post-season bid. 
' dinals' success under second­"It's certainly a proud mo­year coach Rick Majerus is ''a ment for the university, the great tribute to our players and community, the student body fans," says associate coach and the players. We just have Dick Hunsaker. to keep going. I think we'd all Ball State went to 18-2 with be disappointed if we finished Saturday's 80-70 Mid-American 18-9," he said. Conference victory over Ohio Ball State is tied with Toledo University. for first place in the confer­"It's something we can be ence. proud of," Hunsaker said of the "It's really a seven-game Cardinals .900 winning season now," Hall said. 
George 
Francis Travers Ill is 21 
oo! 

#oM tJ.IfrlOar! 
G~J\ttr I \IIJ\LLCHINESE-AMERICAN 
~~ EATING & DRINKING
"'-¥.., 


. ALL-U-CAN EAT BUFFET ESTABLISHMENT 
. . SPECIAL FOR $7.95 Includes soup, appetizers, 8 different entrees & desserts 
Sun, Feb 5-Thurs, Feb 9 
5:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m. 130 Dixit w., South, So. Bend 
----~~~~~-­
come celebrate the Chinese New Year! (nexttoRandall'slmlm-7371 
l

~........................t_______________ 

~ 
P' 
--"' 

1989 SOPHOMORE 
j 
LITERARY 
FESTIVAL 

Tuesday Feb. 7 12:00 p.m. Workshop with Derek. Walcott in the Library Lounge 
8:00p.m. Reginald Gibbons Reading in the Library Auditorium 
Wednesday Feb. 8 11:00 a.m. Workshop with Reginald Gibbons in the Library Lounge 
8:00 p.m. Meg Wolltzer & Sue Miller Readings in the Library Auditorium 
Thursday Feb. 9 10:00 a.m. Workshop with Meg Wolitzer in the Library Lounge 
11:00 a.m. Workshop with Sue Miller in the Library Lounge 
8:00 p.m. Lisel Mueller Reading in the Library Auditorium 
Friday Feb. 10 ll:00 a.m. Workshop with Lise! Mueller in the Library Lounge 
8:00 p.m. Stuart Dybek Reading in the Library Auditorium 
Saturday Feb. 11 12:00 p.m. Workshop with Stuart Dybek !n the Library Lounge 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

~--------~------------­----~--~--~-·-~~~~~---~ ~~ -~ ---~--~~~------­
Tuesday, February 7, 1989 
The Observer page 13 
Club volleyball among the best Swim teams to finish vs. UIC 
Men to swim in last meet before MCC's 
The Men's Volleyball Club was victorious in the O'Grady 
By ROSE PIETRZAK 
Invitational Volleyball Tournament held at Notre Dame lastthis year has given us the best yard freestyle for first place
Sports Writer 
weekend. The 9-2 Irish destroyed Indiana in the first match The Notre Dame men's championship season ahead of (47.64) for a second-place swimming team (6-4) travels to us. In every meet this year, we finish. Jim Byrne won the 200­
opportunity to prepare for the and his second quickest time 
Greg
Chicago to meet Illinois­have had some great swims yard backstroke event and had Chicago on Feb. 7 at 5:30p.m. and some mediocre swims, but a time of 1:58.04 for second 
Scheckenbach 
in the last dual meet of the there is no doubt that we can place in the 200-yard individual season. The team then begins have some fantastic swims in medley. 
Club Corner
the championship season at the the next few weeks." Tom Penn grabbed a first­Midwestern Collegiate Confer­In a close race, Ball State place finish and season-best ence championships in St. edged out Notre Dame 115-128 time with 2:13.19 in the 200­


and defeated Bowling Green in the championship match with Louis on Feb. 16-18. behind the performances of yard breaststroke. Paul 
relative ease. The Irish hold a 4-0 series Winand Winingers. Winingers Godfrey had a time of 1:55.57 
Against the Hoosiers, Notre Dame fought off the constant edge over the Flames. Last took the 1000-and 100-yard in the 200-yard butterfly for a 
pressure in winning 15-10, 15-11, 15-11. In the straight set win, year at the Rolf's Aquatic cen­freestyle and swam the first leg first-place finish. 
the Irish were led by junior Andrew Sullivan and graduate ter, Notre Dame beat Illinois­of the first-place 400-yard "Ball State is always a real 
student Pat Burke, both of whom had 10 kills. Senior setter Chicago 112-87. freestyle relay for Ball State. test for us," said Welsh. "They 
Mike Shimota performed outstandingly in feeding the Irish "Each meet we've gotten Brian Rini took the second have a tough program and 
hitters with numerous assists. Club president Jim Sullivan faster, if not stronger," said place spot behind Winingers in some great swimmers. We 
compiled nine digs en route to one of his better performances fourth-year coach Tim Welsh. the 1000-yard freestyle event, fought them and it was a 
of the young season. "Our times have improved sig­and won the 500-yard free. struggle, but they got the 
"We've got a long way to go," said Head Coach Bill An­nificantly since the beginning Chris Petrillo recorded his finishes when they needed 
derson. "But I am very pleased with the way we played." of the season and our schedule season-best time in the 200-them." 
In the championship match, Notre Dame blasted Bowling Green 15-5, 15-4, 15-7. Sophomore Tom Martin snuffed the Bowling Green hitters with a match-leading six blocks. Junior 
Mike Sheedy led the Irish with nine kills while Shimota, using his jump serve, aced the overmatched opponent. Once again, By ROSE PIETRZAK centrating on individual per­when Johnson posted a :25:18 
Women try to rebound from Ball State loss 
Steve McFeely added the finishing touches on the match with Sports Writer formances as well as the over­time for first place. Johnson 
his serving prowess. all team performance." also had a time of :55.74 in the 
Notre Dame is currently ranked ninth in the country for The Notre Dame women's The Irish suffered a 100-yard freestyle that was 
club teams. They have beaten traditional powerhouse Ohio swimming team (5-6) ends its heartbreaking loss at Ball good for third place. 
State and are preparing for a grueling trip west during Spring dual-meet season at Illinois­State last weekend 144-156. The Other highlights included 
Break. Chicago on Feb. 7 at 5:30p.m. 200-yard medley relay team of Moston's season-best times in Tuesday, the volleyball club will take on Aquinas College The Irish doused the Flames Katie Pamenter, Callie Bol­the 100-and 200-yard butterfly 
before the football pep rally in the Joyce ACC pit at 7:00. 118-88 at Rolf's Aquatic Center. latino, Christy Moston and for a pair of secon-place Notre Dame hopes to improve Tracy Johnson clocked a finishes. upon the 3-0 series record. 1:54.04 for a first-place finish. 
Squash Club c9mpeted in a tournament at Purdue a "The championship season Mary Acampora, Becky Wood, "The record we have doesn't 
few weekends ago. As a team, they fared very well. Steve will be a refreshing change for Kelly Quinn and Amy Tri necessarily reflect the talent 
Guthrie reached the semifinals in the "C" division while club us," said Head Coach Tim grabbed the second-place spot and speed we have on this 
president Bill Murray and Tom Russell also performed well. Welsh. "The meet with Illinois­with a time of 1:55.20 to give team," said Welsh. "The team 
"Right now, the club is going great," said Murray. "But Chicago is always good prepa­the Irish a 15-2 lead. is young and with experience, 
we do need to recruit more players to keep the club alive ration for the championships The Irish didn't regain the I think we can be much more 
because most of the present members will graduate." and we need to start con-lead until the 50-yard freestyle successful next year." 
\!7ill[[bffill~\t1 ~ 3®W~ ®®lliDillffiffi® 
*7 Nights luxury lodging at Gore Creek Resort 
Condominiums *Round Trip Deluxe Motorcoach *4 days unlimited1nterchangeable 
VaiVBeavercreek lift tickets with optron to buy 
extra days at group discount *Ski rental option *On-site Tour Director 
FINAL SIGNOPS THIS WEEK 
Lafortune Montgomery Theatre 1st Floor Lafortune Questions: Call Marie 239-7757 or Pat 283-1534 

-



World champion boxer Sugar Ray Leonard and Notre Dame football coach Lou Holtz ham It up before a March of Dimes dinner honoring athletes last Wednesday at Detroit. The celebrating con-
Tuesday, February 7, 1989 
Kentucky answers NCAA allegations 
' 
Tennis 
continued from page 16 

Glavis in straight sets, 6-3, 6-4. Throughout the match, Kalbas was unable to connect on a good serve. 
"Brian was not at 100 per­
cent," said Bayliss. "He did not 
have the physical ability to 
take charge out on the court." 
At the No.3 slot, Walter Dol­hare lost to lefthander Kevin Dibelius in two close sets, 6-4, 7-6 (8-6). The difference in the match was Dolhare's inability to handle the strong serve off Dibelius. 
Usually, a team relies on the top of the lineup to propel them to victory, but this match 
SEC 
continued from page 16 

Since his return, road fans have showered him with tennis balls. 
Neither Schintzius, nor the rest of a promising front line that includes Livingston Chat­man and Dwayne Davis is the big problem. Coach Norm Sloan's biggest headaches come from a backcourt that is perhaps the worst in the last decade. 
Ohio State's Jay Burson and Florida State's George McCloud entered their games against Florida as very good guards. They left as All­America candidates. 
It's funny how at the begin­ning of the season, many Gators said the loss of record­setting guard Vernon Maxwell would help the team chemistry. It certainly hasn't done much for its turnover-assist ratio. 
Vanderbilt (6-4, 12-10): With Perdue gone, the Commodores simply aren't the same team that made the Sweet 16 last year. But that doesn't mean proved to be the opposite. Notre Dame's No. 4, No. 5, No. 6 players enabled the Irish to split the singles competition and chance to win the match in doubles play. 
Paul Odland, a superb No. 4 player, abandoned his usual baseline tactics to upset Ulf Hartwig, 7-5, 6-4. Odland charged the net when his baseline shots presented the opportunity. 
"It was a good victory for me," said Odland, who holds a 2-2 season record. "I didn't feel good about my losses to Northwestern and Michigan and win against Western Mic­higan but this win is a confi­dence builder." 
At the No. 5 position, Mike Wallace rode his current hot streak to a 6-2, 3-6, 6-2 victory over Saumil Jhaveri. Wallace battled a tender shoulder during his victory. 
"I can't say enough about Mi­ke," said Bayliss. "In the past, he did not have the high level of confidence to match his high level of talent. Now he does." 
Ryan Wenger, the No. 6 player, knocked off Enrico Sar­tori, who had previously been undefeated at No. 6 singles, in straight sets, 6-3, 6-2. 
"Both Wenger and Wallace went out and took care of busi­ness," said Bayliss. "They won by putting pressure on their op­ponents." 
The key to the match was the high level of doubles play. With 
things haven't been interesting Lionel Richie went solo. in Nashville. Schintzius hit both free throws, 
Vanderbilt's Barry Goheen is and the Gators won in over­your basic sharp-shooting time. guard for most of the game, but The SEC has produced its when the game is on the line, share of wacky moments, but he becomes the most dominat-it doesn't appear as if it in­ing collegiate player since eludes many potential forces in Patrick Ewing. the NCAA tournament. Then 
Goheen hit a 49-footer at the again, those around the SEC buzzer to upset Louisville and this season have learned to ex­had double duty in a win over pect just about anything. 
Georgia. He nailed a 49-footer .------------, 
just before the half, then sank another three-point shot  SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS  
buzzer-beater to beat the Bul­ 
ldogs by one point.  
These things can work both  
ways. Vandy lost to LSU when  
Jackson hit a three-pointer at  
the  end  of  regulation.  Then  
came the night a tennis match  
broke  out  at  Memorial  
Coliseum.  
The Commodores led Florida  
by two with a second to play  
when a fan threw a tennis ball  
at the Gators' Schintzius.  
Vandy was  charged with  a  
technical foul for that throw  
from the stands. What resulted  
was the worse thing to happen  
to  the  Commodores  since  
 

Associated Press 

LEXINGTON, Ky.-The Uni­versity of Kentucky sent the NCAA an eight-volume response Monday to 18 allega­tions of wrongdoing after tel­ling trustees that some changes already have been made in the basketball program. 
Bernie Vonderheide, a spokesman for the university, said the school would have no comment on the response ex­cept to say that it had been mailed. 
At the NCAA in Mission, Kan., a secretary in the office of David Berst, director of en­forcemement for the NCAA, said the NCAA would· neither confirm nor deny whether it had r~eived any kind of ma­teriaY from a university. 
The trustees, who received a private briefing on the reply, expressed full support for Pres­ident David Roselle's handling of the 10-month internal inves­tigation. 
Roselle earlier told The Courier-Journal of Louisville that the response will fall into three categories: allegations the school will deny; those for which it will accept responsi­bility, and those in which insuf­ficient evidence was found to make a judgment. 
University and NCAA offi­cials are expected to meet in early March to see what alle­gations will be presented to the 
the fate of the Irish on their rackets, the No. 1 and No. 3 teams posted upset victories against the talented OSU teams. 
According to Bayliss, the No. 1 team had the biggest doubles 
Wallace capitalized on their seventh match point to hand Stephen Miguel-Kevin Dibelius a straight set loss, 7-6 (7-5), 7-6 (8-6). 
"They were tough and had big serves," said DiLucia. "But Mike was fired up to play and we played well together." 
The final victory of the day was earned by the No. 3 duo, Dave Reiter-Ryan Wenger. The tandem outplayed Ted
Glavis-Eric Berg in three sets, NCAA's Infractions Commit­tee. 
"I hope we're in good shape," Roselle said of the March meeting. "I have a strong urge to reach the end of this mat­ter." 
Asked if he was satisfied with the findings in the report, Roselle said: "I'm not satisfied with findings unless it's a clean bill of health. But I'm satisfied with the exemplary way the in­vestigation has been con­ducted." 
The NCAA's allegations in­clude charges of illegal pay­ments to recruits, including $1,000 allegedly air-expressed to a recruit's father in Califor­nia, and a charge that player Eric Manuel cheated on a col­lege entrance exam. 
Roselle said he would not comment on any part of the response unless directed to do so by the courts. Two newspapers have asked Fayette Circuit Court to declare the response a public record under Kentucky's open­record law. 
During an impromptu news conference after Sunday's meeting, Roselle said a portion of the response describes "cor­rective actions" already taken in the Kentucky basketball pro­gram. 
That portion of the response includes no other plans, such as the dismissal of any univer­sity personnel, Roselle said. 
7-5, 2-6, 6-2, to seal the Irish up­set. 
"We really played well to­gether," said Bayliss. "To come out with a win in a foreign environment gives us a lot of confidence." 
victory of the day. DiLucia-...----------.. 
F V 7 nights hotel accommodations, airfare and much more only $389 call Doug at 283-1627 
..__________.. 


MARKET OPINION RESEARCH HIRING TELEPHONE INTERVIEWERS (No Sales) PART-TIME AND FULL-TIME POSITIONS 
. 
Qualifications: type 25 WPM, enjoy talking with people, available for evenings and weekend shifts. No research experience needed, computer training included $4.00-$12.00 I hour 
121 s. Niles Ave. Emporium Bldg. 2nd fl. 219-282-2754 
--------------------. 
Love, %om and 
'Dad 


---~-------~--­
Tuesday, February 7, 1989 
CAMPUS 
11:15 a.m. AT&T National Video Conference: Campus of the Future, Room 152 Regina Hall, Saint Mary's College. 
Noon Sophomore Literary Festival workshop with Derek W al­cott, Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
Noon Kellogg Institute Brown Bag Seminar "Ideological In­novations and Conflicts in Argentine Catholicism," by Florea! Forni, ND and CONICET, Argentina, Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
4:30 p.m. Earth Sciences Lecture "Place Tectonic Reorgan­ization and Seafloor Hydrothermal Activity," by Annette Olivarez, University of Michigan, Room 101 Earth Sciences. 
7 p.m. Communication and Theatre film "These Three," di­rected by William Tyler, Annenberg Auditorium. 
7:15 p.m. Campus Bible Study for Lent with Father D' Alanzo, Conference Room, Campus Ministry, Badin Hall. 
8 p.m. Sophomore Literary Festival Reading by Regina! Gib­bons, editor of Tri-Quarterly, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
9 p.m. Communication and Theatre film "My Darling Clementine," directed by John Ford, Annenberg Auditorium. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Cheese Croissant Baked Fish Top Round of Beef Meatloaf Sweet & Sour Pork Crepes Seafood Newburgh Deli Bar 
COMICS 
Bloom County 

Buzz McFiatop 
)fx.J! I 1/IJI<Ti1Y LEG! 
) 
( 
l 

I iL CAI.L 5£CVRITY. 
The Observer page 15 _, 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 


ACROSS  23 Strong fiber  55 Use a dish towel  
1 Priestly  24 Disgusted  56 Planet suffix  
garments 5 "You may all  27 Remove 31 Secular  57 Kind of knob, man or nail  
-pot": Goldsmith 9 Small potation 13 Origin 14 Name in cosmetics 15 "Educating -," 1983 film 16 City near Cairo 17Sierra­ 32 Figure of speech 33 Barb 36 Author of "Tobacco Road" 39 Wapiti 40 Nurses, e.g. 41 Precinct 42 Slips 43 Enjoyed  59 Daredevil Knievel so Loesser's "Most Happy" one 61 Monster 62 Disavow 63-off (irate) 64 lndigency  
18 Elliptical  44 Billiard shot  
19American  47 Word with rash  DOWN  
illustrator  or wave  
1894-1978  49 Lord Protector of  1 Buenos Aires is  
22 Early movie  England:  its cap.  
vamp  1653-58  2 Cut of meat  
3 Big, stupid guy  
4 Ahab's first mate 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
5 Rattails of the deep seas 6 Repute 7"A-'clock scholar" 8 First -floor apartment 9 Doze 10 Rosie's need 11 In any way 12 "Atlantic City" director: 1980 
20 Cartographer's concern 
Berke Breathed 

Michael F. Muldoon 

IT /11~/IT 8£ f1 t,ooo tOEA. 
21 Soared 24 Run away 25 Actor James 
-Jones 26Word processor's 
need 28 Dais occupant 29"A-havea 
gooq memory" 30 Pipe elbows 32 Kind of dragon 
The Far Side 

33 Steve Martin's "The-" 34 Opposite of aweather 35 Joyous 37"-,lsaw. Caesar 38 Served a diner 42 Beautiful 43 TV's "L.A.-" 44 Daunted 45 Active 
46 Mature 48 Ari Meyers's role 
on "Kate & Allie" 50 Catamaran 51 Algonquian 
Indian 52 Raise one's hackles 53 Ogle anagram 
54 Learning 58 Buttons or Skelton 
Gary Larson 


STUDENT UNION BOARD Pf}('ESf£9{.tfS: 
THE SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 
, Tuesday Feb. 7 12:00 p.m. Workshop with Derek Walcott in the Library Lounge
~............F.~·~.. 

8:00 p.m. Reginald Gibbons Reading in the Library Auditorium 

STUDENT UNION BQ.\RD
Wednesday Feb. 8 ll:00 a.m. Workshop with Reginald Gibbons in the Library Lounge TO BE CONTINUED. 
8:00p.m. Meg Wolltzer & Sue Miller Readings in the Library Auditorium 


gage 16 Tuesday, February 7, 1989 

By FRANK PASTOR  for the Irish this season, com­ 
Sports Writer Goaltender Lance Madson of the Notre Dame hockey team was recently selected to play  piling an 8-23-2 record. He had allowed 4.78 goals per game and owned an outstanding .881 save percentage going into last weekend's series.  
on the United States team in  
the World University Games in Sofia, Bulgaria from March 3­ The selection is one of many honors Madson has received in  
12.  recent  weeks.  The  junior  
The World University Games showcase some of the top players in the world not par­ticipating in post-season play. They offer an opportunity for these players to display their skills before the United States Olympic Committee, which scouts all future Olympic  goaltender picked up his first shutout of the season (the third of his career) two weeks ago against Canisius. He also set the Notre Dame single-season record for saves Friday night against Michigan-Dearborn. Early in the second period of Friday night's 7-6 loss to the Wolves, Madson recorded his  
prospects.  1,114th  save  of the  season  to  
Madson is one of only three collegiate goalies representing  break the mark set by former Irish goaltender Mark Kron­holm in the 1973-74 season.  
the United States. "This is a chance for Lance to show how good a goaltender he is, and how he compares  Madson currently has 1,185 saves with four games remain­ing.  
Lance Madson Is one of three American goaltenders to attend the World University Games In Sofia., Bulgaria Mar. 3-12. Madson Is the stan- The Observer I Rob Regovich dout starting goalie for the Notre Dame hockey team. Frank Pastor has details at right.  with the other goalies they (the USOC) have designated as fu­ture Olympic goaltenders," said Irish coach Ric Schafer. Madson has started 33 games  "The last couple of weeks have really been amazing," said Madson. "It's pretty excit­ing being named to the United States team."  

Sports
Madson rewarded with elite invitation 
ND men's tennis trips OSU Doubles play leads Irish past Ohio State 


By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer Coming into the season, Irish men's tennis head coach Bob Bayliss was convinced that ex­cellent doubles play was the key to Notre Dame's success. Bayliss was right. After a 3-3 deadlock in singles play, Notre Dame's No. 1 and No. 3 tan­ want to make something out of nothing but they are a national level team." While the Irish evened their record at 2-2 with the victory, they also ended a seven-year losing streak against Ohio State that dates back to 1981. Moreover, Notre Dame avenged last year's decisive 7-2 loss to the Buckeyes.  fact that its top three players fell to their Ohio State counter­parts. DiLucia, ranked No. 62 nationally, was bettered in three sets by Steve Miguel, the No. 48 collegiate player, 6-3, 3­6, 6-2. "Miguel was all over David's second serve," said Bayliss of his No. 1 player's misfortunes. "Dave could have been more  
dems joined forces to push the  "We  went  into  the  match  consistent on  his returns and  
squad over the edge to surprise Ohio State by a 5-4 margin in  thinking it was pivotal," said Paul Odland, who plays No. 4  passing shots." Number-two Brian Kalbas,  
Columbus, Oh. "In a word, this victory gives  for Notre Dame. "We came down (to Columbus) with the  hampered by a shoulder injury which forced him to sit out in  The Observer I File Photo  
us credibility," said Bayliss. "It is our first quality win on the road this season. I don't  idea that we had to win. And we left with a positive feeling." Notre Dame overcame the  doubles competition, fell to Ted see TENNIS, page 14  Brian Kalbas and the Notre Dame men's tennis team defeated Ohio State 5-4 Saturday at Columbus, Ohio. The victory evened the Irish season record at 2-2.  

SEC teams beat themselves, few others 
When it comes to quality of play, the country's other. At last glance, they all appeared to be tied lose 96-79 to Mississippi State. The Top 20 has been best college basketball teams play in the Atlantic for third place. Nobody deserves to be in first place the SEC equivalent of the Bermuda Triangle. Coast Conference, Big East and Big Ten. this year. Tennessee (6-4, 13·6): This was one SEC squad 
The Southeastern Conference lags far behind that seemed like a lock for the NCAAs. The Volun­those three leagues. Never having fullly gotten over Louisiana State (7·3 In SEC, 15·6 overall): LSU is teers were ranked in the Top 20 for a while. its image as a football conference, the SEC is par­having, well, a typical LSU season. Dale Brown is Then they lost to Florida State. Then they lost to ticularly down on talent this season. a master at getting his team to underachieve in the Kentucky. Then Tennessee coach Don DeVoe 
But when it comes down to pure entertainment, claimed that Kentucky was better than the Semi­nothing can beat the stories and characters in this regular season, barely make the NCAA tournament noles (you knew something was wrong when he year's SEC. made that remark). The Volunteers haven't been 
the same since. The Top 20 jinx continues. 
From the soap opera in Kentucky to drug prob­Steve 
Georgia (4-6, 12·8): The Bulldogs are the third Top lems at Florida the actual basketball games have 20 victim in the SEC. Before conference play, they been only half the story in the SEC. Megargee were cruising along with a win over state rival Geor­
The season actually started at the end of last gia Tech and the title in a Cotton State Classic that season, when the Emery packages opened which Assistant Sports Editor included South Carolina and LaSalle. began Kentucky's well-documented problems with But the Dawgs picked the wrong time to cool off. the law. The Kentucky situation has almost over­They lost their first several conference games and shadowed a similar problem in Florida, where a and then turn into worldbeaters. They usually have went from the Top 20 to almost out of NCAA con­drug probe has been underway since August. more trouble making the Final 64 than they do tention. Georgia finally is starting to get back in 
In the meantime, the conference is suffering a reaching the Final Eight. gear, but there isn't much margin for error. subpar year on the court. Former stars like Geor­Florida (5-4, 11-10): :Many people expected this gia's Willie Anderson, Kentucky's Rex Chapman, Because of Chris Jackson (a freshman who's team to win the SEC. As things stand now, the Auburn's Chris Morris and Vanderbilt's Will second in the country in scoring), the Tigers Gators are having trouble staying in NIT conten­
Perdue aJI departed in the first round of last sum­shouldn't have too many troubles making the tourn­tion. 
mer's NBA draft, leaving the conference bare on ament this year. But as last week attests, you never The problems started when center Dwaynetalent. can tell with LSU. Schintzius received a suspension for hitting two Instead, with the exception of doormats Auburn The pumped-up Tigers stun Georgetown, crack people with a tennis racket outside a nightclub.
and Mississippi State, the SEC is a conference of the Top 20, trash a decent Ole Miss squad by 30 and 
eight good-to-average teams beating up on each once everybody starts to notice them, they promptly see SEC, page 14 
-----------------------~ 




