-

VOL. XXIII NO. 57 TUESDAY , NOVEMBER 28, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Czech strike urges reform 
Communists 'shaken' 
PRAGUE, Czechoslovakia (API -Mil­lions of people ignored government pleas and joined a nationwide general strike Monday in the largest and most dramatic demonstration so far for democracy and an end to Communist Party rule. 
"We don't want you anymore!" a flag­waving crowd of 200,000 roared in a thunderous chant that echoed off the 19th-century buildings surrounding downtown Wenceslas Square. It was the 11th straight day of massive protests in Czechoslovakia. 
Huge crowds of workers also poured 
. into the streets of Bratislava, the east Slovak industrial center of Kosice, the mining center of Ostrava on the Polish border, and in Usti nad Labem, the heart of industrial north Bohemia. 
The showing was a resounding victory for the opposition, which had called the two-hour strike a referendum on the Communists' 40-year monopoly on power. 
Communist leaders' frantic attempts to avert the strike failed, as workers joined the pro-democracy movement started by students, artists and intellec­tuals. 
see STRIKE I page 4 

Colombian jetliner explodes in mid-air, 107 die 
BOGOTA. Colombia (API -A Radio Caracol and claimed that Colombian jetliner crashed on a group called The the outskirts of Bogota shortly Extraditables blew up the jet to aftnr takeoff Monday and all kill five police informants. He 107 p!lople aboard were killed. said the five gave police infor-A caller to a radio station mation that led to the discovery claimed drug traffickers of the Medellin drug cartel bombed the jet. leader's hideout. 
Witnesses said the Avianca The man did not identify him-Airlines Boeing 727-100 ex-self, and the claim could not be plodfld before it plunged into a immediately authenticated. hilly area south of the capital, A spokesman for the U.S. about a mile from a neighbor-Embassy in Bogota said one hood of slum houses and facto-U.S. citizen. Andres Escabi, was ries. Pieces of the jet were known to have been killed in the found up to six miles from the crash. He said Escabi, a native main point of impact, police of Puerto Rico, also held said. Colombian citizenship and lived 
Hours later, a man called in Bogota. 
"The plane was flying along when suddenly it exploded, broke in two and fell in flames and smoke," said a witness, Alfonso Moreno, in an interview with the radio network Caracol. 
Flight 203 was bound for Cali, about 190 miles southwest of Bogota. Cali is the headquar­ters of one of Colombia's biggest cocaine cartels and has been the site of frequent bomb­ings and other attacks since the government declared war on drug lords in August. 
"I heard explosions and I thought there was some prob­lem with transformers in the electrical station, but I looked 
Witness testifies to Jesuit killing 
SAN SALVADOR. El Salvador (API -The last words anyone heard The Rev. Ignacio Martin­Barn say were: "What an injus­tice. What carnage." 
A few minutes later. he and live Jesuit colleagues were shot down. The killers seemed de­tflrmined to leave no witnesses. The cook and her teen-age daughter were slaughtered too. 

But someone survived the bloodbath Nov. 16 at Jose Simeon Canas Central American University: a cleaning woman named Lucia Barrera de Cerna. 
In sworn testimony the judge made available Monday to The Associated Press, Mrs. Barrera. 44, said the killers wore mili­tary uniforms. 
Until Monday, only sketchy second-hand accounts were available of her testimony about the killings that stunned El Salvador and caused an in­ternational outcry. 
"I don't discount any possibility; it's probably members of the military," said Ricardo Zamorra, the investigating judge who took 
• Salvadoran-Nicaraguan relations severed I page 3 

her statement Nov. 22 at the Spanish Embassy, where the woman hid until fleeing to Miami last week under the protection of U.S. officials. 
Mrs. Barrera said she was awakened by gunfire at about 1 
a.m. and ran to a window. In "moonlight that was like day­time," she reported seeing five uniformed men close in, shoot­ing, on the residence the six Jesuits shared across the way. 
Two assailants wore camou­flage, she said, like the uni­forms "I have seen on the sol­diers in the street," and the others were clad in dark uni­forms. 

She heard doors flung open and more shots, then "voices, without being able to distin­guish who spoke at first. Only the voice of Padre Nachito (Martin-Baro) was I finally able to heiJ.r. He was saying: 'What an injustice. What carnage.'" 
After an outburst of gunfire, 
"Padre Nachito spoke no more, 
nor could I hear a single voice," 
she said. 

A few seconds later, Barrera 11eard furniture crashing and glass breaking. She said she left the window and rushed to tell her husband what she had seen, "crying for what I imag­ined might have happened, be­cause I couldn't hear the padre.'' 
A few minutes later she heard an explosion, then another. 
"After the explosions ... heard no footsteps, no sound, nothing that told me where they had gone. It seemed as though they had fallen from the sky.'' 
When dawn came, the terri­fied woman said, she emerged and found the bodies of .four priests, including Martin-Baro, vice-rector of the university, and the Rev. Ignacio Ellacuria, the rector, sprawled on the lawn with their faces destroyed. The others were inside the resi­dence, which was ransacked and pocked by bullets. 
up and saw a plane explode in the air, and bodies ~nd .~iec~s of luggage w~re falling, sa~d another witness, Mano Vasquez. 
Two Colombian air force pi­lots in another plane reported seeing two explosions on the jet, said the director of Colombia's Civil Aviation Authority, Col. Jorge Gonzalez. 
The airline refused comment on the reports of explosio.n~. Avianca spokeswoman Patncia Duarte said the plane carried 101 passengers and a crew of six and that all were killed. Their nationalities were not immediately known. 
No one on the ground ~a.s h~~t, spokesmen for C~lof!Ibia s C~vi~ Defe.nse teams said m ra­dw mter~tews. . 
Investigators found ~o evi­dence of a bo~b. said. Col. Gu~tavo Leal, chief of natwnal police. for the state.. . 
Radw Caracol satd the fli~h.t recorder .was fou!ld. and ClVll aeron~utl~s speClahsts were analyzmg Its data. 
The p~ane. took off from Bogota. s ~I Dorado lnternatwnal A!rport at 7:15 a.m., and the pilot, Jose Ossa, told the. tower at 7:18a.m. that everythmg was ~ormal, Duarte told The Associated Press. 
Laundry claim forms due by end of semester 
By MONICA YANT 
News Writer 
Students who lost clothing in the fire at St. Michael's Laundry need to sign claim forms even though the com­puter records remained in­tact, said Dave Kinkopf, stu­dent body vice president, at Monday's Student Senate meeting. 
A categorization of items lost is not necessary unless the student disagrees with the computer's record of what was lost, Kinkopf said. A list of reimbursement val· ues for each item will be made available. · 
Students should sign their forms by the .end of the semester, 
The faculty lounge over the South. Dining Han will re· main open 24 hours a day during .finals week{ Dan· f[oag•report~d in other sen~. 
a~l:l.t>usiness: ••:J;\.:mm .•... 
Two travel agencies will be offering discounted pack· ages for the Orange Bowl, said Joe Cassidy, director of student activities. Alumni headquarters will be just south of Ft . .Lauderdale. but no definite plans have been made regl}rding student ac­commodations. 
Some question remains as to whether student accom­modations should be made in the vicinity of alumni headquarters. Cassidy ex­plained that students must pick up their game tickets wherever the Athletic De­partment decides to dis· tribute them, and if students are staying in Miami Beach, transportation for tickets and alumni-sponsored activities could pose problems.· 
Senate member Lisa Bost­Wick reported that she is 

.....·.··· ; seeSENATE./page.; . 4 
page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Fire leaves mark on men's fashion at ND 
Think about it. Seven thousand males with three weeks' worth of dirty laundry. No clean clothes, not even those on their backs. And no St. Michael's Laundry. What hap­pens now? 
Joe Zadrozny 
The styles and 
Asst. Production 
fashion at Notre 
Manager

Dame are in the process of making some radical changes over the next few months. 
Judging by the people I know, I would estimate that about 95% of the male stu­dent body has never touched a washer. For them, Tide is something caused by the moon, and Cheer is a TV show set in Roston. Bounce is something you do on a trampoline. I won't even touch "cycle." 
So, the first step is to maximize clothes use. It's similar to creative eating in the dining hall. Shirts can be worn two or three times before you have to turn them inside out, then you can wear them two or three more times. 
Jeans, who cares? Unless you slip on the ice and land in mud, they will last two or three weeks. No one will ever notice. Socks: white tube socks can be worn about three days, then they turn colors (black, brown or blue, depending on your shoes) and then they can be worn as dress socks. 
Underwear is a delicate subject. It should be worn only once before turning it inside­out for a second use. Anything beyond that is just plain gross. 
Finally, you will reach the point when your clothes get up and runaway in the morning as you try to put them on. This is a definite sign that you must do laundry immediately! 
The big trick is to find a nice female friend who would like the pleasure of wash­ing your clothes. If you have no such luck, put a personal in The Observer begging for 
help and threaten to visit all the dorms on campus every day until you get help. And if that doesn't work, try doing it yourself. It's not that bad. 
The real effects of the fire will be seen when guys have done that first load of laundry. Welcome back to the '60s, tie-dyed is in again, as well as high waters. Remem­ber that new extra-large cotton sweatshirt that says "National Champions Two Years in a Row?" Maybe your baby brother will still be able to fit into it. 
Keep up your confidence. You'll make a few mistakes, ruin a few clothes. Hut think about it, you're acquiring a new skill that might come in handy when you move away from home. Just don't let Mom know you can do your own laundry. Remember, the lines for washers will be only half as long as those in the Mac lab, because the other half of the school already has washers and dryers in their dorms. 

And we thought St. Michael's was tough on our clothes. 

~The_ ObserYer-
PO Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 

(219)·239· 74 71  
Tuesday's  Staff:  
Production  
Tricia Grohman  
Cheever Griffin  
News Christine Wash Sandy Wiegand  VIewpoint  Sports Ken Tysiac Steve Megargee  
Molly Schwartz  
Kim Skiles  
Ad  Design  
systems  Val Paletta  
Accent  Gilbert Gomez  Meg Callahan  
Colleen Cronin  Michael Gargiulo  Amy Eckert  
Stephanie Snyder  Kristie Rolke  
Alison Cocks  Laura Rossi  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) IS published Monday through Friday except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer is a member of the Assoc1ated Press. All reproducllOn rights are reserved 
Tuesday, November 28, 1989
The Observer 

WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Tuesday, November 28. 40 Lines show high temperatures. 
Yesterday's high: 60 
Yesterday's low: 40 
Nation's high: 92 
(Kingsville, Texas) 
Nation's low: 3 

(Fargo, North Dakota) 
Forecast: Cloudy, 
windy and much colder 
today with a 60 percent 
of snow, possibly ac­
cumulating. Tempera­
tures falling into the 
20s. Cloudy and very 
cold tonight with a 50 
percent chance of snow 
showers. Lows 10 to 
15. Partly sunny and cold Wednesday. Highs 25 to 30. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1989 Accu-Weather, Inc. 


Pressure
®© 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

WORLD 
Long-time leader of the Swedish Center Party Studies interrupted by the Nazis more than half a and former Interior Minister Gunnar Hedlund died at age century ago will be completed by an 81-year-old New 89 Sunday in Stockholm after a long illness. The cause of York woman who will return to Germany next week to re­death was not given but both the newspaper Aftonbladet ceive her doctoral degree, taking along her 24 7 -page the­and news agency TT said it probably was heart failure. sis. "I had forgotten most of it," she said. Luckily for Hedlund entered parliament in 1942 representing the Miss Rubinstein, she won't have to defend her thesis in the Farmer's Party, and became party leader in 1949. traditional manner -"there will be no examination 
whatsoever," she said with a laugh. 
Friends of a British hostage in Lebanon, jour­nalist John McCarthy, marked his 33rd birthday Monday Moslem girls may wear Islamic scarves to with a demonstration at the Foreign Office in London, school if it does not cause disruptions, the Council of demanding it do more for his release. They signed a giant State of France ruled Monday, but the decision seemed card to celebrate his fourth birthday in captivity, released unlikely to end the controversy. The ruling by France's 
white doves and took out an ad in a Beirut newspaper to highest administrative authority leaves it up to school au­
appeal for him to be allowed to contact his family. Mc­thorities to judge on a case-by-case basis whether the Carthy, a Worldwide Television News journalist, was kid­wearing of the "hijab" scarf constitutes "an act of pres­napped April 17, 1986, as he drove to Beirut airport to fly sure or provocation, of proselytism or propaganda."home after 32 days in Lebanon. 
NATIONAL 
About 50 top entertainers participated in a tele­The alleged deadliest drunken driver in u.s. vised fund-raising benefit in Hollywood for the Juvenile history, Larry Mahoney, wept Monday as a witness in his Diabetes Foundation International that raised more than murder trial told of snatching some children out of a $4.5 million, organizers said. Hosts for Sunday's event burning church bus amid "a constant barrage of were Gloria Loring, Hal Linden and Mary Tyler Moore, screams" from the 27 who were trapped and killed. The who also is the foundation's international chairman. The bus was "blazing furiously" soon after it was struck by non-profit organization, which supports diabetes re­Mahoney's pickup on Interstate 71, said truck driver search, raised $4,554,549 during its four-hour "Thanks James Thorn. Mahoney, 36, of rural Owen County, Ken­for Giving" broadcast on the USA Network, according to tucky, is charged with 27 counts of murder,12 counts of a statement issued by the organization. first-degree assault, and 42 counts of wanton endanger­
ment and one count of drunken driving. 
Heavyweight boxing champion Mike Tyson Traditional street decorations for the holidays 
says he likes clothes so much that he buys new clothes ev­have been given the heave ho-ho-ho in Santa Monica, ery day, according to an interview published in the De­Calif. Residents of this seaside community can kiss holi­cember issue of Vogue. His companion, Naomi Campbell, day mistletoe goodbye, along with Christmas trees and said it's true: "Mike buys new clothes every single day." sleigh bells. Rudolph has been replaced by Flipper. Hut while he may like the latest clothing fashions, he's not Jonathon Livingston Seagull outranks the snowman. Old interested in one popular male fashion accessory -ear­St. Nick will ride into town under a wave of ocean-themed rings. vinyl banners depicting sea gulls, dolphins and kelp. "The 
generic candle and Christmas wrapping could go in Des 
Moines or Cincinnati," said artist Laddie Dill. 
INDIANA MARKET UPDATE 
Drunken driving laws will be enforced Closings for November 27, 1989 more strictly in Indianapolis during the holiday season, as The Governor's Task Force to Reduce Drunk Driving awarded 

Volume in shares
$25,000 in grants to local law agencies there Monday.The grants range from $250 

149.39 Million 
to $1 ,000, to 4 7 police agencies in 34 coun­ties. The money will be used to pay police overtime from Dec. 7 through Jan. 7. 

NYSE Index 
191.13 {} 0.84 
The death of a woman and her twin S&P Composite daughters who were shot during the week­345.61 {} 1.64 end in their Gary, Ind. home is being inves­Dow Jones Industrials tigated. Police were questioning family, 2,694.97 {}19.42 friends and neighbors of the woman Mon­
Precious Metals
day, but had not established a motive or identified suspects in the deaths of Linda Gold {1 $5.20 to $414.1 0 I oz. Hownes, 42, and Gena and Lisa Mabon, both 
Silver ./}18.7¢ to $5.693 I oz.
22. A newspaper delivery boy found their bodies Saturday morning. Source: AP 
ALMANAC 
On November 28: 

•In 
1520: Portuguese navigator Ferdinand Magellan reached the Pacific Ocean after passing through the South American strait that now bears his name. •In 1942: Nearly 500 people died in a fire that destroyed the Cocoanut Grove nightclub in Roston. The exact cause of the fire never was officially deter­mined, though many blamed a busboy who survived the blaze. 

•In 
1943: President Franklin Roosevelt, Hritis~ Prime Minis­ter Winston Churchill and So­viet leader Josef Stalin met in Tehran to map out strategy during World War II. 


Tuesday, November 28, 1989 The Observer page 3 

. AP Photo 

Walter Burgos tries to comfort his injured cameraman brother Hugo as they head for a military hospital in the capitol after he was shot by ground fire while landing at the site of a downed plane in southeast El Salvador. 
By Cristina Ortiz 
News writer 
The formation of the Indiana Campus Compact, an alliance of Indiana colleges and universities to promote volunteerism, was officially announced by Governor Evan Bayh at the Indiana Conference of Higher Education on Wednesday. 
The Indiana Campus Compact is an outgrowth of Campus Compact, a national coalition of colleges and universities established in 1985. 
This non-profit organization will help member institutions to foster and channel the volun­teer activities of their students. It will also establish state wide goals and attempt to operate a 




USAF HEALTH PROFESSIONS 

31 7-848-5830 
COllECT 

Salvadoran leader breaks relations with Nicaragua, berates Ortega 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) -Prospects for peace in Central America, battered by fierce battles this month be­tween Salvadoran rebels and the government, were further set back by El Salvador's break in relations with Nicaragua. 
The move Sunday by rightist President Alfredo Cristiani capped a series of events that indicates more tension, conflict and war lies ahead in the trou­bled region. 
Cristiani, who suspended re­lations to protest the alleged shipment of sophisticated arms from Nicaragua to El Salvador's leftist rebels, called Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega "a puppet of interna­tional communist aggression." 
Ortega said he was glad not to have relations with "a geno­cidal government that kills priests." 
He was referring to the Salvadoran air force's strafing and rocketing of populated neighborhoods of the capital in response to a new guerrilla of­fensive and to the slaying of six Jesuit educators on Nov. 16. A witness has testified the killers of the Jesuits wore army uni­forms. 
Two regional counterparts, President Jose Azcona of Honduras and Oscar Arias of Costa Rica, expressed their re­gret at the rupture in relations. 

"Now, the process of peace in the region has stagnated," Azcona told reporters last weekend. He said the break makes his borders with both countries more tense. and "exacerbates even more the re­gion's social and political cri­sis." 
Arias, the principal author of a 1987 regional accord de­signed to bring peace to the war-torn isthmus, issued a communique saying he "laments" the break in rela­tions because "it expresses the gravity of the developments of the past days." 
Immediately after announcing the suspension of relations, Cristiani said he would not at­tend next week's summit of 
Central American presidents set in Managua. The session is in­tended as a follow up on the Arias peace plan. 
The Costa Rican president is­sued an urgent call Monday for a change of venue. Cristiani's reason for balking was the site, a country he contends is aiding the effort to topple his govern­ment. 
In Managua, Roberto Lopez Geissel, the Salvadoran charge d'affaires, said his country had been planning for several months to upgrade the mission, name him ambassador and in­crease the staff and office space. 
Nicaragua withdrew its charge d'affaires and other diplomats from El Salvador on Nov. 18 as a "precautionary measure." 

El Salvador recalled its am­bassador after the Sandinistas came to power in a 1978-79 revolution and the Salvadoran Embassy was fired upon, Lopez Geissel said. Since then, the mission has been headed by a series of six charges d'affaires, he said. 
The schism came only days after developments that com­plicated matters on the region's other war front, between the Sandinista army and U.S.­backed Contra rebels. 
Negotiations in Washington between the two sides broke down last week. On Saturday, Ortega responded bitterly to Honduran expressions of con­cern about Sandinista army concentrations near Nicaragua's border with Honduras. 
"These Hondurans are crazy," said Ortega. "We'll put our troops wherever the hell we want to as long as they're in our own country." 
Campus Compact promotes student volunteerism at ND 
clearinghouse for communica­tion service opportunities for students. 
According to David Dawson, a representative for Governor Bayh, the compact will be bene­ficial in three aspects: 
• 
The compact will assist those colleges and universities who have yet to develop an ef­fective system to channel volun­teerism. 

• 
It will unite these efforts to enable the development of an agenda or potential project for all member institutions to work on. 



• It will identify specific vol­unteers to help in projects which may require a particular ability. 
Father Malloy is one of six university presidents who ini­tially contributed to the devel­opment of the Indiana Campus Compact. 
The appointed representative for Notre Dame is Father Don McNeil. In working with the Center for Social Concerns for a number of years, McNeil is aware of the history of service and social activity among stu-
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 

(Rated-R, 1981) 
TONIGHT 7:00 
DAR 



dents. "The compact is a posi­tive response to these efforts," said McNeil. 

The University harbors many such programs, such as dormi­tory sponsored social concerns events and the Hesburgh Pro­gram. The mission of the com­pact is to support and expand such programs. The proposed activities are grouped around three areas: campus assistance, information sharing and academic enhancement. 

1<42-I'M4 Hl~h h:\d Iierman lntdh~cncc Olf,,~, 
[o.,172-1'18:0 'i~<!TIIn·llcncral nllnt•lntled\ai"'"' 
Pn:'ld~m ''I ~u-1r1~ 

Ifthe press didn't tell us,who would? 
To 8-Cl prmted 101ormannn on the role ol a lrec pre~' and hi!\' 

11 proten~ your ri@.ht,, or to d1~cu~' an\ free pre~' l'>~uc.callthe F1r..t -\mt:ndmem Center at 1-800-5-12-1000 
NIGHTCLUB 

PROGRESSIVE MUSIC NIGHT 10::00-1·1 :30 

Tuesday, November 28, 1989 
page 4 The Observer 
Mom to donate liver to child 
CIIICAGO (API -A mother trying to save her daughter's life by participating in the nation's first living-donor liver transplant showed no "signs of doubt" before the historic operation Monday. a hospital spokeswoman said. 
The surgery involving Teresa Smith and her 21-month-old daughter, Alyssa, is the first liver transplant from a living donor in this country, said doctors at the University of Chicago Medical Cen­ter. 
If successful, the operation could provide a solution to a severe shortage of organs for children. who need trans­plants, said doctors at the university hospital. 
More than 700 babies a year in the United States need liver transplants, and as many as half die for lack of a donor. 
Alyssa suffers from an often-fatal liver disorder called biliary atresia. the h~ading cause for liver transplants in­volving children. 
She had been waiting more than a year for a cadaver liver .transplant when tlw Smiths heard about the hospi­tal's plans for an experimental living­donor program in August. Liver trans­plants from living donors have been 
Senate 
continued from pag~ 1 
working on a proposal which would return dorm rooms designed for singln occupancy. but presently occupied by two people, to their original statn. The rooms in question are in Walsh, Badin, Lyons. and I Inward I Jails. The housing crunch of rncnnt years has been the cause of the over occupancy. 
A series featuring professors lectur­ing "as if they had one hour left to live" has been planned for next ynar by the intellectual life committee of student governmnnt, Melissa Smith. executive assistant of Student Senate said. The "Last Lecture" series will span three consecutive nights in the library. 
performed only three times -in Brazil, Australia and Japan. One child has died. Mrs. Smith went into surgery at 7:35 
a.m. to begin the operation in which the left lobe of her liver -about one-third of the organ -was to be transplanted in her daughter. 
"She was as eager to get started as she was a month ago when we first proposed this to her," said hospital spokeswoman Mary Fetsch. "She has not disp!'ayed any signs of doubt or he­sitation." 
Dr. Christoph Broelsch led the surgi­cal team in the two-phase operation. About 3 1/2 hours into the mother's op­eration, doctors prepared Alyssa for the transplant. 
During the surgery, surgeons acciden­tally damaged Mrs. Smith's spleen and had to remove it, said hospital spokesman Ed Ernst. 
The development was not expected to affect the outcome but could delay completion of the procedure, which doctors had expected to take up to nine hours, Ernst said. 
Monday's surgery was complicated by the need to keep the removed portion of the liver intact, he said. 
Strike 
continued from page 1 
Shaken leaders continued to make new concessions to the opposition: 
• 
The Party's Central Committee dumped three more hard-liners from the ruling Politburo, the second major leadership reshuffie in three days. 

• 
The Czech and Slovak ministries of culture announced they had lifted most forms of press censorship. 

• 
The Central Committee approved an inquiry by a parliamentary commission into a Nov. 17 rally in which riot police clubbed hundreds of peaceful pro­democracy demonstrators. 




AP Photo
Voting tally 

A man updates results of the ninth Indian elections in New Delhi, India Monday on one of the huge boards outside local newspaper offices. 
Catnpus Ministry and You 

@0PUS

------------------------MINISTRY-
What Advent means: From A to Z 
Quotables. 
The Homan Catholic Church year comes to an end this week. and the beginning of its new year starts December 3rd -the first Sunday of Advent. Ends and beginnings are times for honeyed thoughts, definitions and inspirations, so here arn a few quickies, somewhat glib, from a Homan Catholic point of view: 
Anti-Christ: The embodiment of all those historical forees hostile to God, whic.h are under the eontrol of humanity. 
Ascension: Jesus entering etnrnal life in a mannnr that shows the abiding validity of humanity. 
Atheism: A way of living uninfluenced to any significant degree by the "God" question. 
Being: That which is not nothing. 
Blessing: Everything that happens, to a bdinver. 
Body of Christ: You, me, us, them. 
Catholicity: Openness to all who arc and all that is. 
Charity: Loving indiscriminately and beyond oneself. 
Christ: The most real presence of God in the World. 
Church: The community of those who believe the above and are committed to becoming it. 
Commandments: Love God above all things and everyone else as yourself. 
Conversion: Change of heart. 
Death: a. moral decrepitude, b. separation of body and soul. 

Despair: Abandonment of hope in possibilities beyond what is seen, felt or thought. 
Eucharist: The active thanks of those who believe in Christ as the most real presence of God in the World for having freely received the gift of being able to receive and become the Body and Blood of that presence. 
Evil: Self-will run riot. 
Faith: Assent to God, as God is self-revealed. 

Freedom: "The ability to choose one's own attitude in any given set of circumstances." (Frankl) 
God: The essence and origin of being, personally self-revealed. 
Gospel: Good News-sin is forgiven and life is eternal! 
Grace: Love freely given, through which God's nature and relationship with humanity is self­revealed. 
Heaven: Eternal fullness of being. 
Hell: Eternal emptiness of being. 
Holiness: Process of being one with God. 

Hope: Confidence that life, in all of its aspects, goes beyond itself. 
Incarnation: The essence of God made human, inviting the essence of humanity to become divine. 
Justice: Rightness of relationship. 
Kingdom of God: God's will run riot. 
Life: Eternally ascending stages of reality. 

Love: Unconditional acceptance. An invitation to oneness of being. 
Next week: M to Z. Thanks to Karl Rahner, Thomas Aquinas, The Bible, Victor Frankl, and others. 
I • t\.DVENT•1989• 

!ldk06f ,wgg -'f@j wr 
,~,-... 

Upcoming Events 
Tuesday, November 28: Rev. Wm. Dexheimer, recipient of death threats from the El Salvadoran death squad, will be speaking at the Center for Social Concerns at 4:15 and 8 p.m. 
Campus Bible Study, Campus Ministry Conference Room, Badin Hall. 8 p.m. 
Saturday, December 2: Eucharist, 5:00 p.m. at Stepan Center. Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C. presider. Notre Dame Women's Choir. 
Sunday, December 3: Eucharist 10:00 a.m. at Stepan Center. Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C. presider. Voices of Faith Choir, Notre Dame Hand bells. 
Eucharist 11:45 a.m. at Stepan Center. Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C., presider. Notre Dame Folk Choir. 
Meeting of Orthodox Christian Students, 8 p.m., Badin Hall Campus Ministry Conference Room. 

Natural history storytelling is the 'oldest metaphor' 
By PAUL PEARSON News Writer 
The idea of natural history in storytelling is the oldest metaphor in all of culture, said Barry Lopez, chair of the American Studies de­partment, in a lecture titled "Story and Natural History" Monday. 
Lopez said this metaphor 
"is  as  deep  and  resonant  
today  as  it  was  for  our  
ancestors."  

"At the core of storytelling is the marvel...to be a part of the landscape." he said. To illustrate this, Lopez gave three examples from his own life experience. 
First, he told about look­ing at a flock of snow geese in flight and marveled that, by using the conception of this flock of geese, " ... we can attack any problem in quantum mechanics." 
Second, he observed a spi­der web and related how "an animal, by an extension of itself," had created it. 
Finally, Lopez observed a quaking aspen tree, with all of its leaves interconnected in a pattern "far more complicated than any ma­chine." 
According to Lopez, a story can recreate an ecosys­tem that is coherent. In fact, he said, "It is possible to physically put down a book and physically feel an exhila­ration." 
"When you enter the land­scape of a poem," or any form of a story, " ... the feel­ing that you get is like being at home," Lopez added. 
Happy Birthday ANDREA! 
TUESDAY, NOV. 21 
2:24 a.m. Notre Dame Security stopped two students for posses­sion of stolen property. The stu­dents were in possession of street signs. 
4:20 p.m. A resident of Badin Hall reported the theft of her book bag and contents from the lobby of Badin Hall between 3:45 and 4 p.m. Her loss is estimated to be $270. 5:57p.m. Notre Dame Police were called to the scene of a two car accident on Juniper Road near the entrance to the D-2 lot. No injuries were reported. 10 p.m. A Lyons Hall resident re­ported the theft of two rings from her room. The theft occurred sometime between 9 p.m. on 11/20 and 5 p.m. on 11/21. 
WEDNESDAY, NOV. 22 
2 p.m. A Stanford Hall resident re­
ported the theft of his coat and wal­
let from the rear lobby of the North 
Dining Hall. The theft occurred be­
tween 12:20 and 1:45 p.m., and his 
loss is estimated to be $124. 

SECURITY BEAT 
8:15p.m. A resident of Sorin Hall reported the theft of his jacket from the basement of South Dining Hall. His loss is estimated at $80. 
THURSDAY, NOV. 23 8 a.m. A visitor to campus reported the theft of her purse and contents from the front seat of her unse­cured vehicle. The car was parked in the bookstore lot, and the theft occurred around 4 p.m. on 11/22. 
FRIDAY, NOV. 24 
6:15 p.m. Notre Dame Police stopped 5 youths in the D-6 lot. The teenagers were consuming al­coholic beverages on University property. The youths were brought to the security office and held until their parents were notified, and their alcohol was confiscated. 
SATURDAY, NOV. 25 5 a.m. Notre Dame Security, on routine patrol of the D-6 lot, found the vehicle of a Carroll Hall resident to be damaged. Unknown per­son(s) had attempted to steal the vehicle and in the process caused 
a great deal of damage to the vehi­
cle. 
9 a.m. Notre Dame Security re­ported that a first floor window of Stanford Hall had been broken by unknown vandal(s). 10 a.m. The vehicle of a Morrissey Hall resident was broken into while the car was parked in the D-1 lot. Stolen from the vehicle were a JVC radio and a booster. Losses are estimated at $188.48. 10 a.m. Notre Dame Security, on routine patrol, reported the vandal­ism to a vehicle parked in the D-2 lot. The stereo and speakers were stolen from the vehicle. 
SUNDAY, NOV. 26 4:05a.m. Notre Dame Police found a lower window of Haggar Hall bro­ken out by unknown person(s). 
8:20 a.m. The vehicle of a Holy Cross Hall resident was broken into and the stereo stolen while the ve­hicle was parked in the D-6 lot. 
12:58 p.m. A resident of Siegfried Hall reported that her vehicle had been vandalized while parked near the hall. Her loss is estimated at $40. 
6:55 p.m. A St. Edward's Hall resi­dent reported the theft of his Bronco's wheel cover while the car was parked in the D-2 lot. His loss is estimated at $80. 

Rev. William Dexheimer 
Lutheran Minister sentenced to death in El Salvador 
''The Persecution of the Church in El Salvador'' 
Tuesday, November 28,4:00 p.m. and 8:00p.m. Center for Social Concerns, Multipurpose Room 
Sponsored by: . The Institute for International Peace Studies, The Center for Social Concerns, 
The St. Mary's Office of Campus Ministry, Notre Dame Office of Campus Ministry, and the Overseas Development Net-work 

-~---------------~­
Viewpoint 

Tuesday, November 28, 1989
page 6 
LETTERS 

El Salvador murders spark quest for learning 
Dear Editor: 
have good reputations too. The bring the object of Christianity, not only march or sign letters. As rector of Morrissey Hall, the human person in need, to
direction for our work here must be more noble and, thus, the center of our studies. l.1~t us study for the same rna­
am often surrounded by the 
more risky. sons tlwy studil)d, bringing alllives of our students. We tell 
students about deaths in their We must learn the sciences so So, we inquire and test politi­
our wits and skills to the .ser­families, and then we sit with as to make life more human. In cal theories, economic policies vice of thn voieelnss. Let us them. We confront and befriend the midst of an academy that and business decisions against transform our directions as students and then find our­
often encourages the sciences what they do for the human studPnts and tnachnrs until we selves befriended. This past for destructive purposes, we person in need. Those in nelld, study, teach, write and read for the b1~nnfit of our brothers and
must speak a holy word, a hu­those who suffer can be at thn the midst of all the life that is man word, a word that redi­root of our studies because sisters in El Salvador and ev­Morrissey. I sat shocked and rects us toward life. We must they are at the root of the life erywhere tlwre are people in 
puzzled over the brutal murder Thursday, l sat in my room in learn political science and busi­of Jesus. nPed. 
Father Joe Ross
ness and economics -all our

of the six Jesuits and their 
!lector

disciplines -in new ways, too. And here we sit. Let us nothousekeeper and her daughter 
Morrissey /lall 
in El Salvador. l found myself called a communist. They were If we eome as Christians to only go to mass remembering 
pondering to what end we do killed because they worked for these pursuits, then we must the murdered Jesuits. Let us Nov. 20, 1989 
all that we do here. literacy among the peasants. 
As a member of this academic Yet, in the minds of some, 

community as a teacher in literacy is a threat because it 
Homelessness needs national attention 
Freshman Seminar, I and many breeds a desire to know, to others try very hard to learn learn, to control one's own des­Dear Editor: lessness. However, we also btl­
Therefore, while we encourage
and teach here. So what can tiny. They were killed because In Liz Panzica's Inside Col­lieve the federal government people to work at the local 
these deaths mean to us, who they preached a church inti­umn of Nov. 9, Miss Panzica has a responsibility to its citi­level, we feel hornelessness is 
are many miles away'! It's easy mately bound up with the needs suggests the problem of zens to create affordable hous­also a national issue and, as 
for us to dismiss these martyrs of the poor. They preached homelessness can and should ing. The main purpose of the such, should be addressed at 
as a news item, as people killed such a church because it is be solved at the local level. Con­march was not to solve any the national level. 
by a repressive government, a among the poor that we so cerning the recent march for problems, but to draw atten­Kate McFadden 
military out of control. It's easy often lind Jesus. affordable housing in Washing­tion to homelessness in order Martha Clowdsley 
to think that they have nothing And here we sit. There are no ton, D.C., she suggests the time, to motivate people on both the Ellen Feeney 
to do with us, students and soldiers surrounding North money, and effort spent by par­local and national level to work /Jreen-Phillips /lall 
teachers, residents and rectors. Dining Hall, no soldiers sur­ticipating students could have on a solution to the problem. Nov. 13, 1989 
But to isolate or minimize their rounding Corby Hall, none sur­been "better spent working in 
deaths is dangerous to our rounding my friends and I at the shelter itself (in downtown 
Censorship stifles freedom of press
pursuit of truth as students Morrissey. But we are here. We South Bend) or in lobbying the 
and dangerous to our faith as continue to go to class, study, local community concerning the Dear Editor: ample is the University-imposed
Christians. teach, assign papers, write, issue rather than the Capitol." In Chris Donnelly's Inside absence of alcohol related ads 
There are many who know solve problems, read books. To As students who were at the column of Nov. 15, he ex­in The Observer. Indeed, the 

far more about El Salvador what end? march, we feel compelled to re­pressed disappointment with closed-rnindedness and past ac­
than I. Many understand export We might do well to look spond. the administrations of George­tions of our school can only
economies, military dictator­carefully at the direction of the One of the reasons we went to 
town and Marquette for their lead one to conclude that the ships, and diplomatic endeavors intellectual energies we expend Washington, D.C. is because we decisions to censor the NOW ad NOW ad would have been 
better than I. But we all know here. If our studies only propel have encountered homelessness for a Pro-Choice rally in Wash­banned here as it was at Ge­
what it means to learn and us into jobs with certain at the local level. For us, at­ington, D.C. He ended his col­orgetown and Marquette.
teach. That is the only ground salaries, and we don't think of tending the march was not a umn by affirming that The Ob­Although his commentary
from which I speak. how our work touches people, substitute for volunteering our server would have run the ad if against censorship was rightThese Jesuits were killed for then any number of state time or giving money to the approached by NOW. Who is he on the mark, it should have particular reasons. They were schools can land us these same homeless of South Bend. We 
kidding? been directed at our adminis­
killed because they spoke about salaries. If our studies here view the march as one aspect of Our administration has on tration as well as those of Ge­
land reform in a country where only enable us, because of a solution to the complex prob­more than one occasion shown orgetown and Marquette.the land is ownnd by a tiny net­Notre Dame's reputation, to lem of hornelessness. its disregard for the First Daniel J. Faheywork of families. To preach get into a good graduate We believe local communities Amendment by censoring earn­Off-Campusland reform is to risk being school, then lots of schools should unite to combat home-pus publications. One prime ex-Nov. 16, 1989 
The_ Obset:Ver---, 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regos Cocco a, Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly Kollen Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager Aloson Cocks Accent Editor John Blas1 Systems Mgr Bernard Brenmnkmeyer Photo Editor Enc Bailey OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chnstone Gill Controller Anne Londner 
The Observer •s the mdependent newspaper published by the students of the Umverso­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saont Mary's College It does not necessanly reflect the pol· ocoes of the admomstrahon of eother onst•tutoon. The news 1S reported as accurately and ob­1ect•vely as possoble Unsogned edotonals represent the opmoon of the majonty of the Jollowong Edotor·•n-Choef Managong Edotor. Executove News Edotor. Voewpoont Edotor Sports Ed•tor Accent Edotor. Photo Ed,1tor. Saont Mary's Edttor Comrnentanes. letters. and the lnsode Column present the voews of theor authors Column space 1s avaolable to all members ol the community and Jhe free expresston of varytng optntons on campus through letters. •s encouraged 

I tNOW wE'V£ B££N DffTitJliJ FOR 3 MoN'fH5,J'IM, 
BUT I STILL CAN''I' !3RINGt MYSELF TO HOLD 
YouR 1-/llND. l-loN6STL-Y, CllA111CE5 llR£ IN£ WILL 
BREAk-UP {)NEi DA-Y . Now, WHA'T' If' MY f(!1lJRE; MK R I <I) H'J' S££5 ME HOLD IN fil YOVR HltND-HE Mt~HT N0'1' A5K M£ 'T'O HIS SYR, W£ Mt6JIIT NOT' FIILL IN LOVf AN[) N£1/l:R. U.fT MAT\R.tED. 
I Gtosf.l, 1 wf/sN''I' 
_ 'Tii!N~ tNt;, WAcS I? 
Is l'l' ANY 'vt/OND£~ 1'HA'T' Oil TINI'n IS 
NorJ-tXIST€NT f'IEP,f'i' 
I 
~ 


;J;J:r-
DOONESBURY 
CAN'T/A/13
I CAN'T 
/A/HAT GfiTSOM13­(JT'Tl)tWo6, arro­7HIN6 F/?00 SIR.! 
FINP7H& 
MAN5? 5HOF&~ 
I 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
7WI.A7C, 5/R.  OH, /AJOaJ.,.  
HOIAJ AEJWT  13Vff.R 513tN  
A PAIR.  lJI;f... AN F-14  

CAf{'{U/Hf£1..? 
\ 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

'To be nobody but yourself in a world that is doing its best, night and day, to make you everybody else means to fight the hardest battle which any human being can fight.' 
eecummings 
---------~-----------------­


Accent

Tuesday, November 28, 1989 page 7 
A guide to the season's TV specials 
As the song says, "It's that time of year when the world falls in love, every song it hears seems to say 'Merry Christmas.'" Well, in this case, every show seems to say "Merry Christmas." 
This season the networks offer viewers a variety of stocking stuffers, including annual favorites and some new surprises. Of particular interest in this plethora of shows are the rerun of "A Very Brady Christmas," two Julie Andrews specials, and the Christmas episode of "I Love Lucy," being shown in its entirety for the first time since 1956. The "Bah Humbug" of the year: No Grinch! So sit back, relax, and happy holidays. 
(Channel 32 is the Fox network out of Chicago and can be tuned in on 
specially-equipped televisions on campus. The times for Channel 32's 
shows are listed according to South Bend's time zone. This schedule was 
compiled by Joe Bucolo.) 
December 2. 
December3 December 6 December 7 December9 December 10 
December 12 December 13 December 15 December 16 
December 17 December 18 December 19 
December 20 December 21 December 22 
December 23 December 24 
December 25 Ch.22 1:00 Ch.28 Midnight Ch.22 5:00 Ch.32 8:00 Ch.32 8:00 Ch.28 Midnight Ch.28 1:30 Ch.32 1:30 Ch.16 4:00 Ch.16 6:00 Ch.32 8:00 Ch.16 9:00 Ch.28 10:00 Ch.32 8:00 Ch.22 8:00 Ch.16 2:00 Ch.22 8:00 Ch. 16 Midnight Ch.28 1:30 Ch. 16 6:00 Ch.22 8:30 Ch.16 10:00 Ch.22 9:00 Ch. 16 8:00 Ch.22 8:00 Ch.22 8:30 Ch.22 8:00 Ch.32 8:00 Ch.22 8:30 Ch.22 9:00 Ch.32 3:30 Ch.28 8:00 Ch.32 2:00 Ch.22 9:00 Ch.28 9:00 Ch.28 lO:OOAM Yes, Virginia, There Is A Santa Claus 

Miracle on 34th Street 
Motown's Christmas 
White Christmas A Christmas Carol 
White Christmas 
The Other Wise Man 
White Christmas Hollywood's Christmas Parade 
The Tiny Tree 
Miracle on 34th Street 
Christmas in America 
Julie Andrews & Carol Burnett: Together Again 
A Christmas Story 
Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer 
There Really is a Santa Claus 
The Secret Garden 
It Nearly Wasn't Christmas 
Mr. Kruger's Christmas 
Marie Osmond's Merry Christmas 
The "I Love Lucy" Christmas 
Christmas in Washington A Christmas Gift 
Sounds of the Holidays 
Garfield's Christmas Special A Clay-mation Christmas A Charlie Brown Christmr~<: 
It's A Wonderful Life 
Frosty the Snowman 
A Very Brady Christmas 
Oliver 
Julie Andrews' Sounds of Christmas A Chirstmas Carol A Christmas Carol 
Don't forget those groovy seventies... 
BILL ROSEMANN 
accent writer 

Preparing to gouge out my eyes, I was rudely interrupted by my roommate, Jim, inquiring as to what was amiss. I ex­plained that the lyrics of Billy Joel's most recently released song, "We Didn't Start the Fire," contained a most grave mistake. Mr. Joel, while chroni­eling events that shaped our society, seemed to have over­looked the decade, that for my­self, signaled mankind's pinna­cle of existence: THE SEVENTIES. When told of this heinous injustice, Jim's only re­sponse was, "good." 
Good?! Good?! Dear reader, how can one gleefully accept the destruction of an era in which men and women, nay, gods, gathered in mead halls to sing, dance, and forge legends that for the rest of time itself will live on in orgasmic celebra­tion? The answer is simple: one cannot do this and not fear the rage of Ricardo Montalban, as his flaming fist will surely smite us into dust. In order to avoid such cataclysmic destruction, I will reverently present the raw power of the time that mankind dared the heavens to match us in our splendor. 
FASHION: The cornucopia of classic looks will never be equalled or surpassed upon this earth, I can assure you. Remember such hip clothes that not only covered you, but lived and breathed with a life of their own? My personal favorites in­clude platform shoes, medal­lions, bell bottom disco slacks, aircraft carrier collars (so named because you could land a plane on those babies), and the velour shirts with ringed zippers down the front. (Shamefully, designers are still copying these styles, one of modern man's shallow attempts to regain its former stature.) And let's not forget those chin long sideburns that we all grew with pride. 
ENTERTAINMENT: When shall there again be an assem­bly of such magnitude that Hollywood gathered during those magic years? I would hazard to guess Tinsel Town could never again produce such dramatic masters as Tatum O'Neil, Erik Estrada, Christie McNichol, Shawn Cassidy, Charo, Tom Wopat, or the most high John Travolta. They taught us to laugh, to cry, touch our souls, and lifted us all up to the heights of ecstasy in shows such as "Hello Larry," "Chico and the Man," "Battlestar Gallactica," and "C.H.I.P.s" (my personal fa­vorite because Ponch and Jon always ended up discoing in one form or another). Modern Saturday morning cartoons (blatant commercials) are blown away by memories of "Land of the Lost," "The Kroft Super Show" (featuring Electro Wotnan and Dyno Girl and their fellow crime fighters Bigfoot and Wildboy), and the "Laff-0­

Lympics" (pitting the Scooby Doobies, the Yogie Yahooies, and the Really Rottens against each other in a winner take all combat to the death). Oh where is "Wheeley and the Chopper Bunch" when we most desper­ately need them? 
MUSIC: Attempting to com­prehend the magnitude of ex­cellence, my vision blurs and I fear I grow faint. But I must go on -"Dance Fever" demands it. Music was placed upon a glow­ing pedestal in ballads such as "Y.M.C.A.," "Muskrat Love," "Copa Cabana," "Staying Alive," and "Shake Your Booty." With a smile on my face and a tear in my eye I recall: KISS (in make­up and full leather regalia), the Bay City Rollers, KC and the Sunshine Band, Donna Summer, the Village People, and the man who "writes the songs that makes the whole world sing," Barry Manilow. Conjure, if you will, the image of the Bee Gees, shirts unbut­toned to mid-abdomen, har­moniously crooning songs of passion under a glowing disco ball. Ah-ecstasy! Realize that in groovy dance clubs across the globe (like our own Theodore's), the legacy of disco blazes on, while we stumble on in the dark. 
Faced wHh such evidence, it is impossible to not accept those all too short years as, quite simply, all we can hope to be. Surely, Mr. Joel has received millions of letters demanding an apology for his sin. Undoubtedly, a forthcoming al­bum will soon be released, ded­icated wholly to this shining moment in time. Realizing the folly of his ignorance, my roommate is seeking expulsion from our University. And I. . .I will simply hop into my El Camino, pop in an ABBA eight­track, and head towards Lake Tahoe, where it is rumored Neil Diamond is performing tonight. 
page 8 The Observer Tuesday, November 28, 1989 
Bolcar impressive in losing effort 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Editor 
MIAMI -In the last regular­season game of his career, Notre Dame tri-captain Ned Bolcar had what may have been his best game ever. 
lie picked off a Craig Erickson pass, hurdled over Erickson's attempt at a tackle and scored Notre Dame's only touchdown on a 49-yard return. 
"There were breakdo'f.1ns here and there," Bolcar, a fifth-year senior, said. "I knew they'd look for the tight end. I just came off and stepped in front of him. I was a running back in high school. It was my first of the year, but I would rather have no interceptions and a national championship." 
Bolcar added 13 tackles, five solo and eight assists, two for losses. He also broke up two passes. The two-year captain now leads the Irish with 109 tackles, 66 solo. 
In the end, however, Bolcar and all the Irish players said that it's the games that matter, not the statistics. 
"Miami was more physical," Bolcar said. "They were the better team today. They beat us on the draw play. We thought we could shut them down, but we just weren't physical enough. We just have to come 
back and get ready for the 
Orange Bowl." 
Another Notre Dame tri-cap­
tain had his hopes of future 
reward placed in serious jeop­
ardy. Tony Rice's chances for 
the Heisman Trophy were all 
but eliminated with the loss. 
Rice ran for 50 yards against 
the tough Hurricane defense 
and completed 7-;of-15 passes 
for 106 yards, with two inter­
ceptions. 
"Tony Rice played a very 
competitive game," Irish head 
coach Lou Holtz said. "We were 
not as sharp as normal on the 
field." 
Rice's Heisman chances were 
based on victories more than 
individual stats. 
"It was tough to lose," Rice said. "That's what I care about now. The team is more impor­tant than all that." 
Prior to the Miami game, Rice 
was 61-of-122 passing for 
1016 yards, and had 834 yards 
rushing on 154 carries, with 
nine total touchdowns on the 
season. He has a career record 
of 27-3 as Notre Dame's start­
ing quarterback. 
As recently as Oct. 24, he was the predicted winner of the award in a poll of voters, but the loss to Miami may put him out of the running. 
Rice will be at the Heisman Trophy award ceremony Saturday at the Downtown Athletic Club in New York City. 
Other candidates present will 
be Indiana's Anthony 
Thompson, West Virginia quar­
terback Major Harris, Penn 
State running back Blair 
Thomas, Air Force's Dee Dowis 
and Colorado quarterback 
Darian Hagan, just a sopho­
more. 
Other invitees who will not be 
present are junior quarterback 
Andre Ware, whose Houston 
team plays Rice Saturday, and 
Florida's Emmitt Smith, who 
faces Florida State. 
A crowd of 81 ,634 vociferous 
fans, the largest attendance in 
Orange Bowl history, witnessed 
Miami's 27-10 victory over the 
Irish. 
"The electricity in this sta­
dium was everywhere, and the 
fans were most vocal and most 
supportive," Holtz said. "We 
had trouble hearing the plays. 
Those things happen when you 
play away from home in a sta­dium as vocal as this." 
Orange Bowl ushers checking section assignments held fans in mobs at the stadium en­trances for more than 20 min­utes, according to some Notre Dame backers. 
"No one ever gets this wild for other games," said Miami student Chris Rings. "It's just that everyone hates Notre Dame." 

Orange Bowl Student ticket information 
January 1, 1990 All Notre Dame students wishing to purchase a ticket to the Orange Bowl will be guaranteed a ticket if purchased accordll'lg to the schedule below. Students may fill out an application for a ticket priced at $30. There will be no seating priority by class. Each student must present his or her own student ID, and receive one application. 

At JACC Gate 1 0 Wednesday, November 29 through Tuesday, December 5 9 a.m. -5 p.m. 

Tickets will be distributed in Miami on a first come, first serve basis. The hours and locations of the distribution are: 
Diplomat Hotel 3515 S. Ocean Drive Hollywood, Florida 33022 Friday, December 29 through Sunday, December 31 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Sunday, December 31 9 a.m.-4 p.m. 
Orange Bowl Stadium January 1 4 p.m. until game time 

Students must personally present their own student ID. No other ID will be accepted without a student ID to receive their tickets in Miami. No refunds will be given for unclaimed tickets. Group seating will be accommodated when tickets are picked up. To sit together, students must pick up tickets at the same time. The earlier the tickets are picked up, the better the seats. Saint Mary's students will not receive tick­ets if the Notre Dame student sales. exceed 3,500 tickets. 

Bowl 
continued from page 16 
any hopes of defending their crown. 
While Holtz has had luck in the Orange Bowl, the stadium has been a house of horrors for Notre Dame. In their five last visits to the Orange Bowl, the Irish have suffered five losses to the University of Miami, with none of the games being de­cided by less than 17 points. 
In those five games, the Hurricanes have outscored the Irish by a point total of 138-32. Notre Dame's offense has gone 10 quarters since last scoring a touchdown in the Orange Bowl stadium. That last touchdown came in the second quarter of the infamous 58-7 loss to the Hurricanes in 1985. 
The lone Irish touchdown last Saturday came on an intercep­
tion return by lirwbaeker Nnd 
Bolear. 

Notre Dame has participated 
in the Orange Bowl game twiee 
before, losing to Nebraska 40-6 
in 1973 and defeating Alabama 
13-11 in 1975. Thn win over tlw 
Crimson Tide carne in Ara 
Parseghian's last gamn as 
Notre DamP coach and cost 
Alabama the national titiP. 
Colorado, the Big Eight champion, is making its first Orange Bowl appearance since 1976. The Buffaloes, who suf­fered tragedy ~~arlier in the sea­son when quarterback Sal Aunese died of cancer, have de­feated TPxas, Illinois. Washington, Oklahoma and Nebraska on thnir way to an undefeated season. 
"1 think the Orange Bowl's an outstanding bowl," said Holtz. "Colorado's an outstanding football team. I don't know much more about it than that." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline lor nexl·day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES ) 

WORDPROCESSING 272·8827 
WORDPROCESSING 272-8827 
TEXTBOOKS BOUGHT AND SOLD Pandora's Books corner of N.D. ave and Howard 233-2342 lots of paperbacks in stock! 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 277-7406 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: Mens N.D. ring on Sunday between La Fortune and stadium.. reward offered. x 1522 
L--1_FO_R_RE_NT___. 
Male/female housemate needed for next semester. Own bedroom, close to campus, house in great condition. 120/mo. +Util. please call 289-4621 
605 ST. PETER 5 BEDRM FURNISHED HOUSE FOR 5 OR 6 AVAILABLE SPRING 1990. CALL ELMER 288·3942. 
TICKETS 
TOP$ ALL HOME GA'S 312·920-9350 
PERSONALS ) 
CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable atmosphere, daily & weekly specials. pool table, English darts, and great company. 234·3541 
Happy Birthday 
Rich 
Love. Your Roommates 

7 NIGHTS 
COIPUS CIIIISTJ I 
MIISTIIIC ISWII "~'fl. 
5 Oil 7 NIGHTS CALL 10LL FRff 10ll'IY 
'·IG0-!2,·591, 
~ 
·otoenamg on orrlt diets ~ndllngtn of srt~v. 
R.H.· 
Bugs or no bugs· I can't wait! 
-M.M. 
HiAg! 
Melissa­

Don't let Xavi talk you into wearing any S·O's 
Happy Birthday Maureen Denise Kelly· 

The neatest little sister in the whole world. May 17 be even better than 16­
More color ing books A job close to home More to do on weekend nights and of course, Good Hair. 
I LoveYoul -Theresa 

Nee Orange BoWl tickets! If you can get some call Mark at 271· 0672 
To the Tampa man with a torn ticket (George)· ihe pleasure was all mine. 
-Mary 

(P.S. It's that time of year again ... I'll watch and think of you.) 
Matt, Bob, & Ed· 

Quit sleeping on the couch. 
WOMEN OF N.D. 
THE GREAT lAUNDRY REVOLUTION IS UPON US !I 
UNITEI! 
JAZZYZAF!! 
YOU BETTER WATCH WHAT YOUR DOING ON THE BEACH! THERE'S NO TELLING WHAT YOU'RE GETTING INTO!!! 
LOVE, YOUR ROOMIES 

ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM Prof. John H. Robinson Director of ND's Thomas White Center on Law and Government responds to "Should Cocaine be Legalized?" Thursday, Nov 30 7pm All are welcome! 
A-D·V-E·R·T.J.S-1-N-G 

ADOPTION, A LOVING ALTERNATIVE. 81L ALUM WISHES TO ADOPT AN INFANT. LOVING HOME, CERTIFIED TO ADOPT, EXPENSES PAID. CAN BE CONFIDENTIAL OR OPEN. IF YOU OR SOMEONE YOU KNOW IS CONSIDERING ADOPTION, CALL MIKE & JEAN COLLECT AT 602-482-0905. 
EARN $300 · $500 PER WEEK 
READING BOOKS AT HOME. CALL 1·615-473·7440 EXT. B340. 
ADOPTION · Well-educated couple eager to adopt a baby. Cheerful home full of books. Flexible on sharing information with birthmother about child. Our adoption agency can provide counseling and references. Please call collect 309·827·3135 eves/wknds for profile/photo. James and Hollis. 
.... SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS .... "A CHRISTMAS AFFAIR" FRIDAY DEC. 1, 1989 UNION STATION 9PM·1AM TICKETS·$17.00 LEMANS & AUGUSTA 4:30-6:30 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Miami 
continued from page 16 
Erickson nailed a pass to split end Randal Hill on the left side­line, keeping the drive alive. That drive, totalling 80 yards but requiring 117 yards thanks to Miami penalties and fumbles, ate up 1 0:4 7 off the clock with 
22 plays. 
"I've never seen a drive like 
that," said Coach Erickson. "It 
was the longest drive I've ever 
seen. We used up the clock and 
we went up 14 points. It was 
very important." 
Miami took the early lead in the game. On their first drive, the Hurricanes got a 35-yard field goal from Carlos Huerta. After trading possessions with the Irish, Miami scored again, this time on a 55-yard touch­down pass from Erickson to Dale Dawkins coming across the middle. A Huerta PAT gave Miami the 10-0 lead. 
The responded with an 80­yard drive, but were stalled at the four yard line and settled for a Craig Hentrich field goal. 
"One thing we've had some success with is the ability to score when we got inside the 10-yard line," Holtz said. "We were not successful in that en­

.9L 13ig 'IhantYou to a{{ my fami{y and friends wlio lie{ped me tlirougli fast weet's surgery. I cou{dn 't liave done it without you. I Love You .9l£[. .. o/i6/ia 
deavor today, and that was critical. We will usually put the points on the board, today we did not. 
Again the defenses domi­nated, as the Irish and the Hurricanes traded possessions until Bolcar's touchdown inter­ception return, the first of his career, followed by Clark's in­terception and subsequent Miami score. 
''I'm not going to take any­thing away from Notre Dame," Clark said. "They're an out­standing team. Holtz is an out­standing coach. He'll have them right back." 
"When they're down 12 

[actually 14] points and they're still saying 'we're gonna win, we're gonna win,' I could tell they didn't really mean it," said Dawkins, who led the Miami of­fense, catching seven passes for 123 yards and two touch­downs. 
Miami dominated the third quarter with their 11-minute drive, and Notre Dame's of­fense put together drives of 30 and 27 yards, but was not able 
to score. 

"They've done so many things on goal line, and so few people have been down there against them," Holtz said. "We didn't really know what they'd do on 
******************* 

--AHERS 
720 W. EDISON, MISHAWAKA Between Hickory and Grape 255·2001 
* 
i53 Machines *4·50 Lb. Wuhe" * Dr1ve·Up Window *Experienced Drop·Oif Laundry Service & free Slnmer * Altendlnl on Duty 11 111 Tlmes·l a.m.-Midnight 

* 
Profeuionaf Dry Cleaning Service *lighted Parking Lot *No Smoking Area *luther &Suede Service * free CoHn 


¥-Student Discounts 20% off Dry Cleaning 25 off Top Load Washers 
with Student 1.0. 
There~s a PS/2®that~s 
right for you. 
~~ 
Model 30 286  Model 55 SX  
8530.£21  8555-031  
Memory  1Mb  2Mb  
Processor  80286 ( 10 MHZ)  80386SXT"' ( 16Mhz)  
3.5-lnch diskette drive  144Mb  1.44Mb  
Fixed dlak drive  20Mb  30Mb  
Micro Channel""' architecture  Yes  
Dlsplalf  Monochrome  Monochrome  
Software  DOS 3.3  DOS 3.3  
WordPerlect  WordPerlect  
lotus 1-2-3 $100 


1------·----------.. -t-----·---t----------­
$1,995
Price 
$2.950 

Now with Immediate Delivery! 
Three of the most popular fBM Proprinter8TM are available now at special low prices, and slightly longer delivery. 
Proprinter III w/Cable (4201/003) $406 Proprinter X24E w/Cable (4207/002) $549 Proprinter XL24E w/Cable (4208/002) $736 Start out the new year right. Check out all 
these special savings now-before it's too late! 
I-Iow'rc you going to do it? 
PS/2 it! 
Notre Dame Computer Store Computing Center and Math Building 

----··
239-7477 ----­
----·­
---·­

'"Th•t oflor lllmrted to qualdied I'GJOents, leculty IW'ld steH .,_no 01dot an IBM PSn Moclel BSJ0-£21 01 BSS.S4'11 ttvrugh December 31, 1989 Pr•ces quoted do rQ ncUde aaletta~. Prces abo.oe do ~Lide I handing ~ge. Check wiVl yo.JI nttrtuton •ogwdng th•• charge -tBM and PS/2 are teg11tored trademarks of ln1ornahonal Busnnt Macht\et Capaalion...Propriltet anc:l MicroChamelarelred~•k•.d lntomat10n1l8utn~ Mechnel Capaaton "'"00386SX tw1d 90386 •• ITademetlu ol Intel Caporaticn. Prices 11e subject to cha'lge ..,d 19~ m1y withdtN h ptcmoC.icn at •"'' tine wrthOJI wrmen notice lmmod1ate deliVery Ia calh ll1d cash~ett check 
I etden. 
Options with anlf ordor, 
Color Monitors $230 
goal line. That was a problem. We didn't know what to do, and in all honesty, they didn't run what we worked on. They ran something rather conventional, and we worked on some differ­ent things." 
A Huerta field goal in the fourth quarter made the final score 27-10. 
"I think Miami played an out­standing football game," Holtz said. "And they really are an outstanding team." 
"This team has been through a lot of adversity," Coach Erickson said. "Any time there's a coaching change, ev­erybody's checking out the new coach. I don't think anyone gave us very much credit, and we came out today and proved that the transition is over. This is one of the best football teams in the country." 
"We're in a state of shock," Holtz said. "The loss itself hurts. It's been a long year, and this is the eighth bowl team we did play, but we have no ex­cuses. We knew we had to play. I could offer you a million ex­cuses, but not a single reason." 
Irish tumble to 5th in poll 
(AP) -Colorado took over the top spot in college football Monday for the first time in school history, while Alabama jumped to second and Miami moved back into contention for its third national championship of the decade. 
Colorado replaced Notre Dame as the No. 1 team in The Associated Press poll after Miami beat the Fighting Irish 27-10 Saturday. Notre Dame, which had been No. 1 since the first week of the season, fell to fifth while Miami rose three spots to No. 4. 
Alabama, the only major un­defeated team besides Colorado, moved up two places to No. 2 while Michigan re­mained third after beating Ohio State 28-18. Alabama, which had the week off, finishes its regular season Saturday at Auburn. 
The top five teams all have a shot at the national champi­onship. Colorado can win it by beating Notre Dame in the Orange Bowl, but if the Buffaloes lose it would open the door for the other four teams. 
"It is going to be our ultimate challenge," Colorado coach Bill McCartney said. "Anyone who knows anything about Notre Dame and its great traditions knows that they will bounce back from the Miami loss. You can count on that." 
The Top Twenty Five teams in the Associated Press college football poll, with first-place votes in parentheses, records through Nov. 25. total points based on 25­24-23-22-21-20-19-18-17-16·15-14-13­12-11-10-9-8·7-6-5-4-3·2-1 and last week's ranking: 
Record Pts Pvs 1. Colorado {53) 11-0·0 1 ,468 2 2. Alabama (2) 10-0·0 1,351 4 3. Michigan(1) 10-1-0 1,332 3 4. Miami, Fla. (3) 10-1-0 1,319 7 5. Notre Dame 11-1·0 1,231 1 6. Florida St. 8-2-0 1 ,200 5 7. Nebraska 10-1-0 1,154 6 8. Tennessee 9-1-0 1,045 8 9. Arkansas 9-1-0 1 ,000 9 
10. Illinois 9-2-0 913 11 11. Auburn 8-2-0 893 10 12. Southern Cal 8-2-1 802 12 13. Houston 8-2-0 750 13 14. Clemson 9-2·0 684 15 15. Virginia 10-2-0 640 16 16. Texas A&M 7-3-0 534 14 17. West Virginia 8-2-1 499 17 18. Penn St. 7 -3·1 450 22 19. Brigham Young 10-2-0 401 21 20. Duke 8-3-0 301 23 21. Ohio St. 8-3-0 264 20 22. Michigan St. 7-4-0 247 25 23. Hawaii 9-2-0 197 24 24. Pittsburgh 6-3·1 1SO 19 25. Texas Tech 8-3-0 177 18 
Other receiving votes: Florida 53, Washington 21, Arizona 20, Air Force 14, Fresno St. 14, Oregon 8, Mississippi 5, Oklahoma 4. N. Illinois 2, Georgia 1, Syracuse 1. 

Tuesday, November 28, 1989
page 10 The Observer 
Orlando hoping that heated rivalry will get started in magical fashion 
OHLANDO, Fla. (AI') -The other city. For example, a the rivalry is that Orlando took 
NBA rivalry between the Miami offering that while a different expansion tack ­
Orlando Magie and the Miami Orlando wishes upon a star, while the Heat, in its second 
Heat has bPen intense. Miamians will be out burning year, has emphasized youth and 
And that's before they even their ear; and Orlando's that patience, the Magic, in its lirst 
play each other. On Tuesday they know God hates Miami be­year, has put out a team with 
night. they will. cause they heard it straight such veterans as Reggie Theus 
"It lin ally gets to the court," from Jim and Tammy (the and Dave Corzine (now side­
said Pat Williams. the Magic's Bakkers until his conviction lined by injury) and is playing 
president and general manager. and imprisonment were trying near-.500 ball. 
"Aftnr rattling around board­to keep up their televangelism The Heat, meanwhile, is 
rooms, newspaper offices and from an Orlando storefront). showing slow but ·steady im­
chambers of commerce. the A recent Magic promotional provement after debuting in the 
most intense rivalry in all of magazine said the winner of a NBA with 17 straight losses 
profnssional basketball will be Miami one-liner contest was and as a butt of late-night tele­
launched." this: "What does the American vision jokes. 
Williams is considered an Express card have in common "I don't think we can take the 
early leader in NBA hyperbole. with a .357 Magnum? attitude that they're a young 
lie also has played on in­Miamians don't leave home team, because they don't have a 
grained mistrust between without either." young team," Heat forward 
Orlando and Miami. Generally Barry ridiculed this city and Grant Long said. 
speaking, most of the rest of even its greatest of icons, Long insisted that the Heat's 
Florida considers Miamians Disney World, as boring, over­rivalry is with Charlotte, which 
urban people more akin to New priced and dominated by long entered the league with Miami 
Yorkers than the Southerners lines, while Sentinel columnist last year, while Orlando's ri­
other Floridians see themselves Bob Morris jumped on such valry should be with fellow 
as. Miami institutions as Joe's lirst-year team Minnesota. 
The heavy influx of Cubans Stone Crab. 
and other Hispanics into Miami "If this restaurant were any "When you're Goliath. you 
in the past three decades has good, don't you think it would don't want to even acknowledge 
exacnrbated the differences, be a chain, like (Orlando-head­that David exists," Williams 
and the Miami area has seen quartered) Hed Lobster?" said. 
Orlando take over tourism Morris challenged. 
domination with Disney World, For the somewhat objective. "It's one of 82," said Heat 
Sea World and other major at­the best thing about the Heat­coach Ron Rothstein. "When we 
tractions. Magic rivalry is that such get up there and the crowd is 
"Miami for decades has been hokum hasn't been needed by yelling and screaming . . . of 
the Goliath of Florida," said either fledgling franchise, both course it will make a difference 
Williams. "Orlando to them accustomed to playing to because they've done a great 
was the weed-infested citrus packed houses. job of hyping the rivalry. But 
patches." The Heat doesn't admit it, but we'll prepare for them the same 
Williams has been talking perhaps most frustrating about way we do for everybody else." sueh talk for more than three 


years, when Orlando entered the race to win an NBA expan­sion franchise. For much of Every year, Hollywood's most designing and implementing sys­that time. Miami and Orlando ~~I'D LIKE important awards-the tems using such powerful tools 

officials and newspapers 

Oscars-are made possible and technologies as: traded potshots because of a through the accounting services
perception the NBA would 

• 082, IDMS, UNIX or C 
of Price Waterhouse. Our servi­
TO THANK

choose only one Florida eity. • Structured System 
ces reach much further than
Thn NBA picknd two for its Methodologies
Hollywood, however. We make
surprise two-year plan to ex­• Full Life-Cycle Systems 
innovative auditing, accounting
EVERYONE

pand by four teams, but the ri­Development
and systems solutions possible 
valry didn't go away. • CASE Tools 
from the entertainment capital
Summer league exhibitions, If you have a strong academic
to the nation's capital. Now we'd 
WHO HAS

featuring rookies and free record, excellent communica­
like to make your career after
ag1~nts, drew good crowds for tion skills and plan a career in a
college possible. 

Magic-Heat games. While MADE MY dynamic systems consulting Williams continued to fan the environment, you could play an rivalry, the Heat's oflidals de­exciting role in our Office of nied it even existed. Government Services. Keep in 
TECHNICAL 

Indeed, the rivalry, sueh as it mind, you may be assigned in 
is, is city mouse (Miami) our home base of Washington,CAREER DC or temporarily on location
against country mouse 
at one of our client sites from (Orlando and Mickey); Heat Maine to Alaska.
part-owner Julio Iglesias, the Latin pop superstar, against 
POSSIBLE-
On-Campus
the Elvis impersonator the Magic sometimes uses for half­time entertainment, and 

MY FAMILY, Interviews 
Orlando's claim to be an All­American family center com­
January 3D
MY SCHOOL
pared to Miami's much-publi­
To be considered for an inter­
cized crime and drugs. 
view with Price Waterhouse's 
Miami, cosmopolitan and so­
Office of Government Services, 
AND PRICE
phisticated with such Heat co­
you must drop your resume to 
owners as Iglesias and 
Career and Placement Services 
Broadway impresario Zev 
this week. 
WATERHOUSE... " 
Bufman, has been doing its best Join the Price Waterhouse teamto ignore Orlando, an effort and you will benefit from aWilliams called another symp­unique performance-basedtom of "Miami-itis, Goliath­career ladder that puts you in itis." 
charge of your future. You will

But then The Miami Herald Our Office of Government Servi­also enjoy a competitive salary
dispatched its Pulitzer Prize­ces specializes in providing Fed­and benefits package. 
winning humorist, Dave Barry, eral, state and local Government Price Waterhouseto Mousetown. His report, de­with the best in professional 
"low­Office of Government Services
scribing Orlandans as consulting services. Our 
forehead, nose-picking ya­engagements typically involve College Recruiting Specialist 
hoos." gave the rivalry official fmancial systems management, 1801 K Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20006
Miami recognition. manufacturing systems or That was to the apparent information systems auditing. An equal opportunity employer.
ehagrin of Heat general man­Whatever your initial assign­U.S. citizenship may be required ager Lewis Schaffel, reported ment may be, you can count on for some positions.by the Orlando Sentinel to have responded thusly to that news­paper's proposal for a trophy for the loser of this season's four-game Florida series: "We will not accept this trophy. It is in bad taste. We are a profes­sional basketball team. Not the YMCA" 
Price ffaterh(Juse 
The two big newspapers have been having contests for best 
•
cheers and jokes about the 

-
....... ..
~ 
___ _. 
-· 


----·---------------------------------------------------------------~~~~ 
IU's Thompson is named Walter Camp Player of the Year 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. (AP) ­Indiana University running back Anthony Thompson was named the Walter Camp Player of the Year on Monday after narrowly capturing a plurality of the votes cast by Division I-A coaches and sports information directors. 
The voting revealed a lack of a consensus about who de­serves recognition this year as college football's top player. 
"There are a lot of great players out there," acknowl­edged Thompson in accepting 
11/27/68 
Happy 21st to our Deirdre! 
Love from Mom & Dad 
P.S. It's not that fat!!! 
the honor and discussing his prospects for winning the Heisman Trophy. awarded by a committee of sportswriters and broadcasters. 
Asked if he felt he were the best player in college football, Thompson said: "I don't think so. When I was younger, my mother told me there's always somebody better." 
Thompson, who said his suc­cess would not have been possi­ble without the contributions of his teammates and coaches, set three NCAA scoring and rushing 
11/27/89 

records this season and will be the first athlete in any sport at Indiana to have his number retired. 
The votes cast for "player of the year" by about 190 head football coaches and sports in­formation directors were only a recommendation. The final de­cision rested with the founda­tion named after the "father of American football." 
The foundation does not usu­ally provide a breakdown of the voting for top player, according to Ernest C. Williams, founda­tion president. 

Williams would say only that Thompson was recommended by about 30 percent of those voting, while Houston quarter­back Andre Ware was the sec­ond highest vote-getter with about 25 percent. He said three to four players captured most of the votes. 
"Our biggest concern was that the award would go to someone we felt strongly about and not someone who would (necessarily) win the Heisman 
Trophy," said Ernest C. 
ATTENTION STUDENTS 
HOLIDAY HELP 

8.10 
WANTED 

STARTING PAY 
• 
Openings in Greater Indiana and Chicago Suburbs 

• 
All Majors Considered 

• 
Internships Possible 

• 
AASP Scholarships Awarded 

• 
Some Management Opponuntties 

• 
Excellent Business Experience 

• 
Full or Pan Time 



WHERE: O'HARE LOUNGE 1ST FLOOR, LAFORTUNE. 

Ifunable to attendcallafter Wed. 
WHEN: WED. NOV.29th 10-4 pm (219) 271-8699 
Williams, foundation president. 
Thompson was named to the 
Walter Camp team last year 
and again this season, picking 
up more votes for inclusion on 
the 1989 team than any other 
player in the 100-year history 
of the selections. He was chosen 
for this year's team by 89 per­
cent of those who voted. 
"He was a known quantity to 
us. We knew his character and 
we know his statistics on the 
field, and quite frankly, there 
was no one else running away 
with it," Williams said. 
Syracuse 1st in new listing 
(AP) -Syracuse, third in pre­season, took the top spot in the college basketball poll Monday, while Kansas, unranked but triumphant over Nos. 1 and 2, vaulted to fourth in the first balloting of the regular season. 
The Orangemen, who opened their season Monday night at home against Rutgers, received 23 first-place votes and 1,453 points from the nationwide panel of sports writers and broadcasters to edge Arizona (1-0) for the top spot by 11 points. 
Eight teams received first­place votes in a poll scrambled by Kansas' toppling of No. 1 UNLV, No. 2 Louisiana State and No. 25 St. John's on the way to the preseason NIT title. 
Syracuse -last held the No. 1 ranking in the 1987-88 presea­son poll. 
Arizona, which beat defending national champion Michigan in the Tipoff Classic, received 10 first-place votes and had 31 more points than Georgetown (2-0) which moved from fifth to third and received nine No. 1 votes. 
Kansas (4-0) was on top of 16 ballots and had 1,266 points to edge fellow Big Eight mem­ber Missouri, champion of the Maui Classic. The Tigers had 1,248 points, just one more than UNLV (3-1), which fin­ished third in the NIT after be­ing handled easily by Kansas in the semifinals. 
The Top Twenty Five teams in the 
Associated Press college basketball poll, 
with first-place votes in parentheses, 
records through Nov. 26, total points 
based on 25-24·23-22-21-20-19-18-17­
16·15-14-13-12-11-1 0-9-8-7-6-5-4·3-2-1 
and last week's ranking: 
Record Pts Pvs 
1. Syracuse (23) 0-0 1 ,453 3 2. Arizona (10) 1-0 1,442 6 3. Georgetown (9) 2-0 1,411 5 4. Kansas (16) 4-0 1,266 5. Missouri 3-0 1 ,248 11 6. UNLV 3-1 1,247 1 7.Duke(1) 1-0 1,089 10 8. Illinois 0-0 1,026 8 9. LSU (1) 1-1 1 ,009 2 10. Michigan 0·1 1,008 4 11. Arkansas (2) 2-0 976 9 12. N. Carolina (1) 2-1 947 7 13. Louisville 2·1 662 12 14. Indiana 1-0 658 14 15. UCLA 1-0 648 13 16. Temple 0-0 505 15 17. Oklahoma 0-0 484 16 18. Pittsburgh 0-0 464 18 19. Notre Dame 0-0 418 17 20. St. John's 3-1 369 25 21. Georgia Tech 1-0 351 22 22. Memphis St. 2-0 329 24 23. Oklahoma St. 0-0 254 21 24. Florida 0-0 171 23 25. N. Carolina St. 1-1 124 19 
Other receiving votes: Texas-EI Paso 89, Texas 87, Clemson 81, Michigan St. 71, DePaul 60, Minnesota 60, Alabama 56, Houston 48, La Salle 47, Loyola Marymount 36, Oregon St. 35, Ark.-Little Rock 25, Kansas St. 24, Rutgers 22, Ball St. 21, New Mexico 19, Seton Hall 18, Xavier, Ohio 17, James Madison 14, Iowa 13, UC Santa Barbara 12, Wake Forest 8, Boston U. 6, Georgia 6, Maryland 6, Iowa St. 5, Purdue 5, Hawaii 4, Old Dominion 4, Evansville 3, Mississippi 3, West Virginia 3, 
N. Iowa 2, Providence 2, Bradley 1, E. Tennessee St. 1, Middle Tenn. 1, Virginia 1. 


page 12 The Observer Tuesday, November 28, 1989 
Penalty helps lift 49ers past Giants 
on Dec. 11. :
West. They play in Los Angeles ~~~~~~~~~~~~:-~==========~-~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~ 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -Mike Cofer. given a reprieve by a penalty. kicked a 45-yard field goal with 4:12 remaining Mon­day night to put the San Fran­cisco 49ers ahead to stay in a :34-24 victory over the New York Giants. 
Cofer had missed badly from 50 yards, but got a second chance because New York's Reyna Thompson lined up off­side. 
Joe Montana threw three touchdown passes, Pierce Holt had four of seven sacks and the San Francisco defense forced five turnovers as the 49ers took the inside track to the home­field advantage in the NFC playoffs by winning the matchup of teams with 9-2 records. 
The Giants, boasting the stingiest defense in the confer­ence (allowing 16 points per gamP.), permitted Montana to improvp, his league-leading 70­percent completion rate, hitting 27 of 33 passes for 292 yards. 
Montana's scoring passes were liii••••••••••••••••••••IK"Ji"'•=Ill 
in the first half as the defending Super Bowl champions moved to a 24-7 lead. 
But Phil Simms brought the Giants back, engineering two second-half touchdown drives and New York eventually tied the seore at 24 midway through the final period. 
After Cofer's field goal, how­ever, Simms was intercepted for the third time on the night, by Eric Wright, setting up Tom Hathman's 1-yard insurance TD with 1 :08 remaining. 
The loss leaves the Giants a game in front of Philadelphia in the East entering Sunday's 
game against the Eagles at the Meadowlands. The 49ers boosted their hopes of gaining thH homefield advantage throughout the playoffs and re­
~~~ui~osa i~~-~~~m;~~:~n o~~~ 

Are they students? 
No, it's Mr. and Mrs. Kostolansky, and , boy, how they have mellowed out !II 
HAPPY ANNIVERSARY Ill ' 
Love, David, Paul, L Julie, and Maggie p 

An MBA degree from Ohio State can bring you greater opportunities, 
What 
income, and career challenges. Our nationally recognized MBA program 
Can An offers merit-based fmancial aid and has no prerequisites. We enroll both business and nonbusiness majors.
MBA 
And many of our graduates have gone on to jobs with established 
Degree leaders like IBM, Goldman Sachs, AT&T, and Proaer & Gamble. For a free brochure about our programs,
Do For 
please write or call: 
You? 
Director, MBA Programs The Ohio State University 
112 Hagerty Hall 
1775 College Road 
T · H · E 
OHIO 
Columbus, OH 43210-1399
SlATE 
614-292-8511
UNIVERSITY 
Juniors Juniors Juniors 
Your parents could be staying on campus for Junior Parents' Weekend. 
Register for the 
Morris Inn Lottery 
today and tomorrow from 6-9 pm in room 1 OS of Lafortune. 
Any questions? Call Maryann x2855 or Steve x3131 
Juniors Juniors Juniors 
Simms was 25 of 48 for 326 yards. 
The mistake-prone 49ers nearly fumbled away the game in the second half in a manner similar to their collapse against 
the Giants nearly three years ago. In a Monday night game in Candlestick Park on Dec. 1, 1986, New York overcame a 17-0 halftime deficit with three third-period touchdowns for a 21-1 7 victory, and this second half seemed like a rerun. 
Rookie David Meggett took a swing pass from Simms, raced through the secondary and slipped a tackle by Chet Brooks at the 15 as he completed a 53­yard scoring play to cut the lead to 24-1 7. 
When Carl Banks slapped the ball out of Montana's hands and defensive end John Wash­ington recovered at the New York 13, the Giants had a chance to tie it. But long-time Giant Jim Burt, a recent 49er pickup to shore up the nose tackle in Michael Carter's ab­sence, forced a fumble by Meggett to kill one threat. and Brooks' i.nterception of a Simms pass at the 49ers' 1 with 
11:40 left in the game wiped out another. 
The Giants finally drew even with 7:06 left after Banks hammered Mike Wilson and Mark Collins recovered at the San Francisco 30. Disdaining a field goal on 4th-and-goal from the 7, Simms lofted the tying pass to Odessa Turner in the left corner of the end zone. 
Montana dissected the de­fense on an 80-yard drive to open the game, rolling out and finding John Taylor in the right rear corner of the end zone on a 4-yard play after cornerback Collins had slipped. Those were the first points New York had allowed on an opponent's first drive all season. 

You are Cordially Invited to a Company Presentation 
by 

Eli Lilly and Company 
on 

"Financial Career Opportunities and Challenges in a World-Class Life Sciences Company" 
Thursday, November 30, 1989 
Alumni Room Morris Inn 
7:00 pm · 9:00 pm 
Reception following presentation 
Open to students majoring in: Finance, Economics, and ALPA 

+ 
/lut,JIJ,.fl•••l'"'''''" ~~ rt hun Wllm'''l''h""''l'' 11111'11 il'l'll'nqlultllhl,J... Ium''"''"'' 11'1''1101111''1•111' v•lm'llllu'luhro/Jt 1(01111111/hf lui•· r/.Jtl/1111'/ 
For lhe faclS call }<lllf local Red Cr05S. or wrile· 
AIDS
American Red Cross ~;:: 
~~~+

W..Shingwn. OC 20006 
WOMEN-MEN 

A 4 hour walk-In test Is being conducted by the FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION at the following location: 
I USE 

Northside Hall, Room 104, Northside Blvd. 
South Bend, Indiana 
December 2, 1989 at 9:00a.m. 

Starting salary $19,493 with potential to $60,000. Aviation experience Is not required! Excellent training, benefits and retirement plans. Must be under the age of 31 and a 
U.S. citizen. 
An equal opportunity 9mployer-minoritieslwomerllvefer­ans encouraged to apply. 
(These testa are free of charge to all participants.) 
Go far in a career as an Air Force officer. Call OFFICER PROGRAMS 1-800-423-USAF-TOLL FREE 
-AIR -
FORti;: :
> 

page 13 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Sailing Club will meet at 6:30 p.m. Wednesday in 204 O'Shag. All members should attend. 
Rowing Club will hold a mandatory meeting for the entire team at 7:30p.m. Wednesday in 104 O'Shag. 
Novice women's crew will meet at 6 p.m. today at Gate 3 of the Joyce ACC to begin winter workouts. Call 271-930 for more information. 
Tony Boles, the tailback for the University of Michigan who injured his right knee two weeks ago at Minnesota, will require major reconstructive surgery that will keep him out of the Rose Bowl and spring practice. 
In Monday's NBA action, the Utah Jazz drubbed the New Jersey Nets 105-68, the Indiana Pacers edged the Milwaukee Bucks 101-97 and the New York Knicks tripped the Charlotte Hornets 119-108. 
Top-ranked Syracuse downed Rutgers 95-79 in college basketball action Monday. In other college basketball games, Seton Hall beat Bridgeport 80-62, Hawaii trimmed Texas A&M 75-71, Colorado thrashed Valparaiso 93-53, DePaul defeated Hartford 64-56, Georgia blasted Baptist College 91-55, Marshall slipped past Virginia Tech 7-73, Miami whipped Maryland-Baltimore County 91-74, North Carolina State bounced Appalachian State 97-6 7. Boston College slashed Dartmouth 90-81, Cornell nipped St. Bonaventure 70-67, Lafayette defeated Moravian 59-55, Michigan slapped Boston University 73-65, Vanderbilt nipped Southern Methodist 65-60. low State trounced Florida A&M 93-68, Ohio State annihilated Mount St. Mary's (Md.) 102-62, Coppin State stunned Creighton 66-60, Miami (Ohio) cruised past Nebraska 91-71, St. Louis slammed Tennessee State 107-76 and Rice cooked Tulane 91-64. 

ACT NOW! Space is limited. 
SCHI!DIJU! 1: AIR FARE $340.00 Soull1 Bend Charter to Mloml -Dacamber 29 -January 2 
SCHEDULE 2: SATURDAY, DECEMBER 30 Leave Philadelp~a Arrive Miami  8:55a.m. 11:34 a.m.  AIR FARE $238.00 Pan Am 711  
THURSDAY, JANUARY 4 Leave Miami Arrive Ph/Jadelph!a  7:25a.m. 9:55a.m.  Pan Am 710  
SCHEDULE 3: SATURDAY, DECEMBER 30 Leave Washington National Arrive M1ami  9:00a.m. 11:34 a.m.  A!R FARE $290.00 Pan Am 493  
THURSDAY, JANUARY 4 leave Miami Arrive Washington National  7:35a.m. 10:02 a.m.  Pan Am 492  
SCHEDULE 4: SATURDAY, DECEMBER 30 Leave Sl Louis Arrive Atianta  1:50p.m. 4:34P.M.  AIR FARE $330.00 Eastern 2n  
Leave Atlanta Arrive Miami  5:50p.m. 7:40p.m.  Eastern 90  
THURSDAY, JANUARY 4 Leave Miami Arrive Atianta  8:25a.m. 11:28 a.m.  Eastern 158  
Leave Atlanta Arrive St. Louis  12:18 p.m. 1:00p.m.  Eastern 272  
SCHEDULE 5: SATURDAY, DECEMBER 30 Leave New York LaGuardia Arrive Mlarrj  10:00 a.m. 12:55 p.m.  AIR FARE $280.00 Eastern 15  
FRIDAY, JANUARY 5 Leave Miami Amve New Yorl! LaGuardia  9:45a.m. 12:42 p.m.  Eastern 18  
SCHEDULE 6: SATURDAY, DECEMBER 30 Leave Washington Notional Arrive Mlarrj  2:00p.m. 4:30p.m.  AIR FARE $270.00 Eastern1n  
THURSDAY, JANUARY 4 Leave Miami Arrt'e Washington National  11:35a.m. 1:53p.m.  Eastern 172  

Volleyball team ends year in stvle 
Irish finish at 14-17 following win against Bowling -6reen 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Assistant Sports Editor 
The Bowling Green Falcons flew into South Bend Nov. 21 with a 19-9 record and a newly­acquired Mid-American Conference title under their belts, hoping to beat a beleaguered Irish volleyball team and get back to their con­ference playoffs. 
Notre Dame had other plans. 
The Irish were far from hos­pitable hosts, as they dipped the Falcons' wings in a tough four-game match, 15-8, 8-15, 15-12. 15-11, to pick up their 14th win in the last match of the season. 
It was a match which east the spotlight on the squad's two departing seniors, while provid­ing a glimpse of things to come. 
"It was great for the seniors to go out with a win," said Irish coach Art Lambert, whose team closed the season with a 14-17 record. "It's too bad the season has to end here because I really think we've gotten over the hump, but we're going to surprise some people next year. 
''I'm pleased with the progress many of the younger, 

TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS BY: Offlc..l •gency of the Unlveralty of Notre D•me
Travelmore/Ask Mr. Foster 

Lower level LaFortune
Phone:219-239-7080 The following Is the list of the air only 
space held for the Orange Bowl: 
SCHEDULE 7: SUNDAY, DECEMBER 31 LeaYe Chicago O'Hare Arrive M\arrj  7:40a.m. 11:36a.m.  AIR FARE $298.00 Unhed eaa  
FRIDAY, JANUARY 5 Leave Miami Arrive Chicago O'Hare  7:00a.m. 9:06a.m.  United 139  
SCHEDULE 8: SATURDAY, DECEMBER 31 Leave Chicago O'Hare Arrive Washington Dullea  11:15a.m. 1:53 p.m.  AIR FARE $298.00 Unhed 220  
Leave Washing1on Dulles Arrive Miami  5:05p.m. 7:49p.m.  Unhed 1535  
FRIDAY. JANUARY 5 Leave Mloml Arr1ve Chicago O'Hare  12:35 p.m. 2:39p.m.  United 129  
SCHEDULE I: THURSDAY, DECEMBER 28 Leave Los Angeles Arrive San Francisco  12 noon 1:24 p.m.  AIR FARE $318.00 United 1110  
Leave San Francisco Amve Mlomi  1:55p.m. 10:19 p.m.  United sao  
SATURDAY, JANUARY 6 Leave Mloml Arrtve San Francisco  7:40a.m. 10:49 a.m.  Unhed 787  
Leave San Francisco Arrive Los Angeles  12 noon 1:11 p.m.  United aoe  
SCHEDULE 10: THURSDAY, DECEMBER 28 L8ave San Francisco Arr1ve Mlomi  1:55p.m. 10:18 p.m.  AIR FARE $318.00 Unlted880  
SATURDAY, JANUARY 8 Leave Mloml Arr1ve San Francisco  7:40a.m. 10:47 a.m.  United 71fT  


The Main Laundromat 
1518 North Main Street Mishawaka 

259-6322 
Hours: 7:30a.m.-9:00p.m. -7 days a week 
WASHIER§ ONLY 85¢ 
Tuesday FREE Tide in every wash 
Wednesday: Drop-off -40¢ per pound 
Thursday: Tanning -$3.00 per session 
Pick-up. wash. dry, fold. deliver SAME DAY SERVICE 

SCHEDULE 11: AIR FARE $305.00 
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 211 Leave Chlcego O'Hore e:oo a.m. United eM Arrive WuhlngiOn Dullea 8:45a.m. 
Leave Washington Dulles 9:10a.m. United 1107 Arr1ve Wool Palm Beach '11:49 a.m. 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 5 Leave Fort Lauderdale 8:15a.m. United 1132 Amva Washington Dulles 11:38 a.m. 
Leave Washington Dulles 1:48p.m. Unhed 211 Amva Chicago O'Hara 2:4e p.m. 
SCHEDULE 12: AIR FARE $218.00 
FRIDAY, DECEMBEii "29 Leave New Yori( Lae1uardia 7:00a.m. Unhed 1H7 Arrive Washington Dulte. 8:13a.m. 
Leave Washington Dulles 1:05 a.m. United 1185 Arrive Fort Lauderdale 11:38a.m. 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 5 Leave Fort Lauderdale 5:15p.m. United 1!5117 Arrive Woahlngton Dulles 8:45p.m. 
Laave Washington Dulles 8:35p.m. Untt.d 1578 Arrive New Vorl! LaGuardia 10:43 p.m. 
SCHEDULE 13: AIR FARE $218.00 
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 211 Leave Washington Dullea 8:05a.m. Unllld 1185 Arrlva Fort Lauderdale 11:38a.m. 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 5 Leave Fort Lauderdale 5:15p.m. United 1!5117 Arr1ve Washington Dulles 8:45p.m. 
SCHEDULE 14: Dt.counlll .,. available on U.S.Air ftlghtslrom al thalr cltlaeiD Miami. Fort Lauderdale and Wast Palm Beach. Travel valid De­cembllr 21 to January 8. Call lor delallo. 
Other Packages Available -Ask for Details 

less experienced players got 
this year. Even though we paid 
the price with losses this year, 
the game experience is going to 
hold us in good stead next 
year." 

The Irish took control of the 
match early, jumping out to a 
9-2 lead in the first game be­
hind the net play of senior cap­
tain Kathy Cunningham and 
freshman Jessica Fiebelkorn. 
Notre Dame fought off a late 
Falcon surge with the help of 
Cunningham and sophomore 
Tracey Shelton to take game 
one, but the Irish stumbled into 
the second game, allowing 
Bowling Green to grab an 8-3 
lead, before shaking off their 
stupor to pull to within one 
point of the Falcons at 9-8. 
It was as close as the Irish 
would get. 
The Falcons pulled away to 
win by seven and even the 
match at.one game a piece. 
The victory prompted Bowling Green's standout setter Linda Popovich to unwisely prognosticate: "We're taking this match." 
Notre Dame decided to rewrite the Falcon's plans for an early victory celebration. 
The Irish exchanged sideouts 
and ties with Bowling Green 
throughout the tightest game 
of the evening before rallying 
from an 11-7 deficit to grab a 
dramatic third-game win. 

Bowling Green buckled but 
refused to break despite a 
heavy offensive assault from 
Notre Dame lead by 
Cunningham, Fiebelkorn and 
junior Colleen Wagner and 
sophomore Jennifer Slosar. 

Senior setter Taryn Collins, 
who finished her last game with 
60 assists and 13 digs, deliv­
ered the final blow, winning the 
decisive game with her fourth 
service ace of the night. 

Middle hitter Cunningham tal­
lied 19 kills for a team-high 
.308 hitting percentage while 
adding 11 digs and four total 
blocks and fellow middle hitter 
Fiebelkorn helped patrol the 
net with a game-high 20 kills, 
17 digs and three total blo.cks. 

Freshman Alicia Turner was once again quietly effective, recording 11 kills offensively and a game-high 25 kills for the Irish defensively. 
'Tm really happy we could go out with a win," Cunningham said. "I was glad the team could pull it together after los­ing the second game and take control of the match. We knew we wanted to end the season with a win and there was no way we were going to let them beat us on our homecourt." 
Red Sox sign TonyPena 
BOSTON (AP) -Tony Pena signed a $6.4 million, three­year contract with the Red Sox on Monday as Boston ended its long reluctance to sign high­paid free agents in an attempt to end its catching problems. 
Pena, a five-time All-Star who spent the last three seasons with St. Louis, will receive a $600,000 signing bonus and salaries of $1.5 million in 1990, $2.1 million in 1991 and $2.2 million in 1992. He earned $1.1 million last season. 
The Cardinals have high hopes for rookie catcher Todd Zeile and had no interest in re­signing Pena, one of baseball's top fielding catchers. 

The signing probably means the end of Rich Gedman's nine­year career with the Red Sox. Gedman's performances have declined since he made the American League All-Star team in 1985 and 1986. Last season, Gedman, a left-handed hitter, batted .212, his second-lowest average with the Red Sox. He had four homers and 16 RBis in 260 at bats. 
Rick Cerone, Boston's other catcher last season, hit .243 with four homers and 48 RBis in 296 at bats. John Marzano joined the team at the end of the season and batted .444 in 18 at bats. 
Pena, a right-handed batter, hit .259 last season with four homers and 37 RBis and made the National League All-Star team for the fifth time. He has 
a .274 average for his nine­year major league career with a high of .301 in 1983. 
"If the Red Sox sign Tony Pena, I'm sure Rich will be out of here," Jack Sands, Gedman's agent, said last week. 

The Red Sox said landing Pena was their first major free agent signing since first base­man Tony Perez joined them in 1980. 


-------~--~------­
r The Observer Tuesday, November 28, 1989page 14 
Hockey team sweeps Lake Forest, raises record to 8-2 
By KEN TYSIAC Sports Writer 
Sometimes the score sheet doesn't tell the whole story. 
At least, this appears to be the case in the Notre Dame hockey team's weekend sweep of Lake Forest. 
Irish coach Ric Schafer was upset with his team's play in the 6-3 win on Friday night at the Joyce ACC, but oddly enough seemed pleased with the effort put forth in the 5-3 vic­tory on Saturday at Lake Forest. 
"What a difference a day makes," said Schafer, whose team raised its season record to 8-2. "(On Saturday) we were in control just about the whole game. Overall our effort was far superior to the night before. Everybody contributed in his own way." 
The Irish jumped out to a 4-1 lead Saturday at Lake Forest on the strength of two goals by sophomore center Dave Bankoske. The Foresters came roaring back, however, and a George Husson goal at the 5:16 mark of the third period left Notre Dame clinging to a slim 4-3 lead. 
But Irish captain Tim Kuehl put the game out of reach at the 13:29 mark with a pretty breakaway goal. Senior goalie Lance Madson barred the door from that point on to allow the Irish to escape with a 5-3 vic­tory. 
Notre Dame won in similar 
Irish cruise to Rotary Classic title 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team demolished all comers en route to grabbing first place in the Central Florida Rotary Classic last weekend. 
The Irish opened their season by literally razing an out­classed Liberty squad 113-:~5 Friday behind the play of sophomore center Margaret Nowlin, who netted 17 points in the first half alone. 
Nowlin finished the night with a game-high 26 points and 10 rPbounds while noor general Karen Robinson tossed in 22 points in only 16 minutes of play. 

Dons 
continued from page 16 
This will be the first in a sPries of tests for Notre Dame to see how well it can play without sophomore LaPhonso Ellis, who is academically inel­igible until at least the end of the semester. 
With Ellis out, Phelps will look to seniors Keith Robinson and Scott Paddock along with sophomore Keith Tower to provide the muscle up front. That trio should see plenty of action in the opening games. 
Senior co-captain Joe Fredrick should be at full strength after suffering a back injury in the annual intrasquad 
srrimmagt~. lie will bn joined by co-captain Jamere Jackson and junior guard Tim Singleton in the starting lineup. 
Exoress Press, 
OF NJIANA NCOFPDRATEO.., ®
lrQ_U_AUTY PR_I_NTI_N_o-,1 
325 DtXIEWAY NORTH • sa.rrH BEND [21 B) 277-3355 215 S. 11TH STREET • NILES 

616]684-2080 

T H E • E X T R A 0 R D I N A R Y • F L 0 R A L · C 0. 
Fresh Flowers 
Blooming & 
A division of Green Plants 
Michael AngeloGihs Bemacchi Corp. Balloons 
Order Your Holiday Dance Flowers Here! 
10% Discount with Student ID 
ZS6-7Z77ALLMAJOR 
CREDIT CARDS 
• 
ACCEPTED 
i..... ....i 

703 West Edison Rd., Mishawaka (I block West of Grape Rd.) Hours: Mon. -Fri. 9 to 6, Sat. 9 to 5 
WE DELIVER DAILY 
fashion on Friday night, but 
Schafer was not particularly 
pleased with that performance. 
lie was especially concerned 
that Madson, who had an out­
standing game in goal, had to 
do more than his share of work 
in the victory. 
"This should have been a 
game that Lance Madson could 
have played like other goal­
tenders," said Schafer. "In my 
opinion, he shouldn't have been 
called on for heroics." 
With his team trailing 1-0 
midway through the first pe­
riod, Madson made a big pad 
save on a Lake Forest 3-on-1 
break. The Irish responded by 
scoring three unanswered 
goals. Lou Zadra connected at 
the 8:28 mark of the second 
period to give the Irish a 3-1 
lead, but the Foresters closed 
to within a goal when Doug 
Bowman slammed home a 
Husson pass late in the period. 
Bankoske took control for the Irish in the third period. He took a pass from Kuehl at the Lake Forest blue line, streaked down the left side, deked goalie Steve Collins to the ice, and fired a pretty backhand shot high into the net for a 4-2 Irish lead. 
After Lake Forest scored to cut the margin to one again, Bankoske zeroed in on Collins on a 2-on-1 break with Zadra. Bankoske passed to Zadra on the right, and Lou quickly re­turned the favor, finding Bankoske alone in front of an open net. Bankoske cashed in 
.Mllfl,l• 
Muffet McGraw 
Notre Dame coach 
The Irish-not the Flames­provided the heat, allowing Liberty nothing less than a 34­point deficit after the first half of play. 
Notre Dame rolled on again Saturday drubbing host Central 
Florida 81-61 in the champi­onship game. 
Sophomore Comalita Haysbert played possessed tal­lying 9-of-1 0 field goals for 18 first-half points to give the Irish a 45-33 lead that they would never relinquish. 
Haysbert sat down after 28­minutes of play with 20 points, three assists, two rebounds and two steals-enough to earn her tournament MVP honors. 
Junior Sara Liebscher con­tributed six field goals and two free throws down the home stretch to keep Central Florida at bay. 
Both Liebscher and Hobinson garnered all-tournament honors as they combined for 51 points in their team's weekend wins. 


The ClbseMlr I John StJ..debaker Pat Arendt (22) and the Notre Dame hockey team swept a pair of games from Lake Forest last weekend to improve 8-2 on the season. The Irish next face Mankato State in a two-game series this weekend at the 
Joyce ACC. 
the goal for a 5-3 lead. 
Curtis Janicke, who also 
scored in the first period, tal­
lied an empty net goal with 48 
seconds left for the final mar­
gin. 
Notre Dame's top line of 
Bankoske, Kuehl and Zadra 
was outstanding once again 
versus the Foresters. The Irish 
big three combined for 7 of 
their team's 11 goals and 
added eight assists over the 
weekend. 

Help Prevent Birth Defects Support the 

March of Dimes 
--·BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION-­


COLLEGE STUDENT CAR CARE 
COUPON 
BRAKf INSPECTION SPECIAL 
·~~:re~Y~~:~plcte S1495 
•Adjust Parking Brake if Needed 
offer expires 12-31-89 
'..~• ;,\. .. .

OUPON 
CWJ WUTIH BlCTRICAL TEST 
rtosl U,ltll•ry. Alt<>rnatnrs, &  S1895  
Rcrlaccnwnt 1-'"o:actory  '5915  
nn mos U.ttl'ry  

offer expires 12-31-89 
"We seem to be working hard and moving the puck really well," said Kuehl, "We go out there trying to make something happen, and it's good to see our hard work paying off. We always try to play as a line, not as individuals." 
Other individuals who stood out for the Irish over the week­end were freshman center Janicke, whose two goals moved him to fourth on the team in scoring, and freshman defenseman Dan Sawyer, who had two assists in each game. Madson lowered his goals­against average to 4.12 by stopping 46 out of 52 Lake Forest shots. 
Next up for the Irish is a two­game series against Mankato State this eoming Friday and Saturday at the Joyce ACC. Both games will begin at 7:30. 

Coral's Te<:hniciaru are trained to service any make and model. and will meet or Be"t !'fly l\uthOrized Dealer's Price or Pay you the di!Terence n CASH! 
CORALCORAL 
CORAL 

CIIIYSLm/PlYMOOT1f
NISSAN 
DODGE 

2703 Lincolnway W. South Bend 
51176 US 31/33 N 
Grape at Day Rd. 

Mishawaka
Mishawaka 

2n-5aoo 
258-1500 

255-3141 
COUPON 

RUSTPROOANG PACKAGE 
~A...ait.ab&e 
Point&F.Jbnc 

8199
R.l.L WAAAAH'TY ONYOtll..ES LI5S 1IWO I Y£NI Q.D
.__., ..,........., 

--offerexpires 12-31-89 
' . . . . 
COUPON 

COOLING SYSTEM CHECK 
Check hoses & bells 

$1 9 9 5 
Check condition of • 
antifr&eze pressure test 

offer expires 12-31-89 
page 15 
-. 

LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
Tuesday, November 28 
7:30 p.m. Lecture: "Intifada: A Personal and Political Perspective," by Norman Finkelstein, professor of gov­ernment, Brooklyn College. Haggar Hall Auditorium. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
BBQ Ribs Baked Cajun Cod Hot Pastrami Sandwich Vineyard Veg w/ Cheese 


ACROSS  25 Withered  43 Rome's river  
1 Composer Khachaturian 5 Soprano Gluck 9 "They have spread-...":  26 Some of Chopin's compositions 30 Send back 34 At full speed  44 Qatar's locale 46 Fishing vessels 48 Take ten 50 "Metamor­phases" poet  
Psalms  35 Insertion mark  51 Hawaii's flower  
13 Jot  37-volente  55 Matriculate  
14 Boru or Aherne  38 Glen Gray's  59-in the wood  
15 Granular snow 16 Big Ben sound 17 A.B.A. members 18 Kind of surgeon 19 Epitome of handsomeness  Casa­orchestra 39"My-ls Bent": Paar 40 Used a sley 41 -generis  60 More competent 62 Gumbo 63 Curia tribunal 64 Rings 65 Box cautiously  
21 Mo.'s flower  (unique)  66 Of an epoch  
23 Before sleep or  42 Gare du Nord,  67 Columnist  
state  e.g.  Bombeck  
68 Uncanny  


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE DOWN 
1 Met staple 2 Cross 3-time 4 Flower of La. or 
Miss. 5 Tatum or 
Garfunkel 6 Vilna's S.S.R. 7 Yucatan Indians 8 Respondent 9 Key creation 


20 Lend! of tennis 22 Former allowance for 
weight 24 Summarize 26 Light wood 27 Love, in Lille 28Vampire 29 Clog's cousin 31 Taos brick 32 See3 Down 33 Activists 36 Kind of rocket 39 Winslow Homer 
painting 40 Iowa's flower 42 Christie's "Lord 
Edgeware-" 43 Castor, to Pollux 45 Kind of party 47 Contends 49 Dahlia root 
• 
51 Aesop's loser 52 Operatic prince 53 Phi follower on a 
key 54 Duplicate coup 56 Greek flask 57 Sapphira or 
Ananias 58 Parrot of N.Z. 61 Guido's high 
note 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 



WILBUR AND WENDEL JAY HOSLER 
"Wait a minute! Isn't anyone here a real sheep?" 

.-Sports
page 16 Tuesday, November 28. 1989 
Top-ranked Irish become Hurricane casualties 
Miami's big plays doom ND in 27-10 loss 
By THERESA KELL V play, the Irish had the momen­Sports Editor 
tum. Ned Bolcar intercepted a Craig Erickson pass and re­MIAMI -On paper. it was a 
turned it 49 yards for a touch­
good football game. 
down to tie the score at 10 with 
But they didn't play the game 
2:08 to play in the first half. 
on paper. They played it in tlw 
The Irish defense proceeded
Orange Bowl. and that made all 
to stop the Hurricanes on four 
the diffen~ncP in Miami's 27-10 
plays, and the offense took the 
win over Notre Dame last 
field to try to take the lead. But 
Saturday, which knocked the 
a Tony Riee pass was inter­
Irish out of the top ranking, 
cepted by Bernard Clark at the 
stopped a 23-game winning 
Miami 40-yard line, and he re­
strnak and gave the Hurricanes 
turned it 50 yards to set up
(I 0-1 I th1~ revenge th1~y wanted 
Hurricanes' next touchdown. 
from last season's Notre Dame 
Stephen McGuire's five-yard
Dennis Erickson 
win. 
run up the middle with B sec­with the offense ·recovering onds to play gave the each time. Hurricanes a 17-10 lead. 
• Irish fall to No. 5 I page 9 
The Irish threw two inter­"I think it gave them momen­ceptions, Miami one. Notre tum," Holtz said. "I think that 
"I tell you what, I've never Dame had four sacks, Miami changed the game. We could been around a game like this," three. Time of possession was have gone to halftime at 10-10. said Miami hPad coach Dennis almost identical. However, the situation was 17­J·:riekson. "It's the greatPst win But three big plays, in which. 10, and when we did come out !'w twer been associated with. Miami executed and Notre in the second half, we had our You've got to give our football Dame didn't, set the tone for chances." tmun a lot of credit, they gave a the game, and the sharp. emo­Chance number one was an lot. We did some unbelievable tional Hurricanes dominated Erickson fumble on a sack by things out there." tlw Irish in the second half. Erie Jones. Irish defender 
"I really hate to lose," said a "I think we made mistakes," Devon McDonald had the best despondPnt Notre Dame head said lloltz, whose Irish fell to shot at the ball, and he fell on it coach Lou Holtz, "but if we had 11-1 on the season, "but I don't at the Miami three-yard line, to lose. I'm glad it was to an want to labor on those because but let it get away. outstanding football team." it would just distract from the Miami center Bobby Garcia 
The final tPam statistics show other team. In any football eventually recovered the loose identical totals in first downs game like this, there are always ball. (15 for each team) and Notre four or five plays that deter­Chance number two was the Dame ahead in rushing yards mine the outcome of the foot­Hurricane's ensuing third-and­(178-157). Miami was far bet­ball game. We had a couple of 44 play from the Miami seven. ter in passing yards (210-106), good plays, Miami had several." 

and both teams fumbled twice, Prior to Miami's first big see MIAMI/ page 9 first half. McGuire gained 83 yards on 21 carries Saturday, and his touchdown put Miami ahead for good. 
Irish, Holtz will head back to Orange Bowl 
ranked Notre Dame squad as pen to bn in thn Orange Bowl,
By STEVE MEGARGEE 

the national champion instead. and they don't care who they
Associate Sports Editor 

Holtz again has a chance to root for, we'd sure appreciate If Lou Holtz can duplicate his 
prevent a Big Eight team from them on the Notre Dame side." claiming the national title, and Notre Dame and Colorado
last Orange Bowl coaching per­

the Irish again are ranked fifth each accepted their long-ex­
formance, Notre Dame fans 

as the once-beaten Irish face pected Orange Bowl bids
will have good reason to cele­

top-ranked Colorado on New shortly before kickoff of the
brate on New Year's Day. 

Year's Day in the 1990 Orange Irish-Miami game. At the time, Bowl Classic. it looked to be a showdown for
• Ticket information I page 8 

This time around, Notre the national championship. Dame's hopes for a national ti­similar to last year's Fiesta 
Holtz took the first of his tle appear dim, thanks to a 27-Bowl betwenn Notre Dame and seven Arkansas teams to Miami 10 loss to Miami last Saturday Wnst Virginia. in 1977 to face Oklahoma. before a raucous Orange Bowl Colorado, 11-0 and ranked After Holtz suspended three record crowd of 81,634, but first in tho country, now is the players who had combined to Holtz nonetheless welcomes a only Orange Bowl participant score 78 percent of the return to the stadium. playing for a national title. The Razorbacks' touchdowns that "We have been offered an Irish will have to rely on several season, Arkansas upset the Orange Bowl bid. and I'll say different circumstances, begin­second-ranked Sooners 31-6. this, 'We look forward to eom­ning with an Auburn upset of 
That victory prevented ing down here,' " Holtz said Alabama this weekend, to have The Miami defense put a lid on the Notre Dame option attack Oklahoma from winning the na­after Saturday's game. "If any throughout the game. On this play, Hurricane cornerback Kenny Berry tional title. Pollsters eventually of those Hurricane fans that see BOWL 1page 8 
selected Dan Devine's fifth-came in the stadium today hap­(6) watches a teammate grab a hold of Irish quarterback Tony Rice. 
Sweep

Basketball team faces Dons in season opener 
N D hockey takes two 
San Francisco could provide shot 42 percent from the floor after tallying 12 points
By GREG GUFFEY 

over break, page 14
a tournament-type test for the and hit 7 -of-20 three-point field Saturday.
Assistant Sports Editor 

The Dons sported a 16-12Irish. The Dons upset Notre goals. 
the record season have
Dame 79-75 last season in San McCathrion, leading last and
For the past month, the tried annually to improve theirFrancisco behind the 26 points scorer and rebounder from aNotre Dame basketball team 

of center Mark McCathrion. year ago, graduated, but his schedule since restoring its
has talked about a date in replacement is filling those program in 1985. They will face "We respect San Francisco 

Champs
Denver to play for the NCAA California, Arizona State andbecause they beat us last year, shoes nicely. Junior collegebasketball title. 

Scott Stanford before play starts in
and they have some solid play­transfer McDonald The Irish will begin that quest ers back," Phelps said. "They'll scored 25 points in the season­the West Coast Athletic 
ND women's hoops
Conference.
tonight at the Joyce ACC when come in here playing very hard. opening win. Last season, 
wins tourney, 

"We should be a better teamthey host San Francisco in the We're more concerned with McDonald averaged 14.5 points 
page 14

season-opener. Tip-off is set how we play and what we need and 10.4 rebounds for Canada in a few areas, notably defense, 
shooting and rebounding," Sanfor 7:30 p.m., and tickets still to do with our personnel. College. 
Francisco coach Jim Brovelli
are available. "We're concerned about the Four seniors will JOin "We want to put ourselves in knowns and unknowns since McDonald in the starting said. "We have better depth and more players who can do morea position to say every game this is our first game. Our play­lineup. Joel DeBortoli (16 things for us. This will be awe're playing is a tournament ers are ready to play against points in the opener) and Ken 

Finished

difficult game. Notre Dame is
game, every game we're playing somebody. The guys are tired Hart will play the forward is a step toward Denver," Notre of going against each other." spots, while Kevin Bell (8 loaded. They are playing their Dame coach Digger Phelps The Dons opened their season points, seven assists) will join 
home opener and have a little 
Volleyball team ends 
said. "That's a challenge, and Saturday with a 79-71 victory Kevin Ellis (12 points) in the revenge on their minds." 
its season, page 13
that's our goal. Now, it's time over California-Irvine. They had backcourt. James Bell should see DONS 1page 14 
to play." four players in double figures, provide solid help off the bench 







