VOL. XXIII NO. 63 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1989 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Cosby to address 1990 graduates 
Entertainer to represent ND Year of the Family 

By MONICA YANT 
News Writer 
Bill Cosby, PntPrtain<>r. come­dian. authi1r, and bPnnfactor of education. will speak at the UnivPrsity's !45th Commencc­mPnt Exercises May 20. said Hirhard Conklin. director of Public HPiations and Informa­tion. 
Cosby was chosen because, "hp's bnnn vPry murh connectf1d with tlw idea bf1hind the cele­bration of tlw Year of the Family," said University Presi­dnnt Fatlwr Edward Malloy. Cosby's numbN-one rated telf1­vision show. along with numer­ous books. offer humorous ac­counts of nveryday family lifr. according to a press rnlease. 
Malloy said that Cosby's gen­erous support to traditionally black colleges in the country. "wry murh picks up on our ef­forts with n~gards to increasing minority Pnrollmnnt." Besides actively supporting his alma matnr. Temple University. Cosby and his wifr. recently gaw a largP donation to Spell­man CnllPgP in Atlanta. Malloy said. 
A third factor in choosing Cosby as thP commPncement 

Bill Cosby 

spPaker was the University's desire to focus the address specifically for the audience, of which family members are in great number. The University felt Cosby would bP "well-qual­ified" to delivPr an address of this nature. he said. 
According to Malloy, Cosby will be provided background in­formation about the com­mencement exercises, past speeches, and the audience. He will be given an amount of time in which he is to speak, Conklin said. which is approximately 20 minutes. 
Cosby will speak, however, on a topic of his choice. The Uni-
Czech talks begin on new non-Comm-unist government 
PRAGUE. CzPchoslovakia (AP) -One of Czechoslovakia's two rl'publies named thP first gov­p,rnrnent in 41 years dominatPd by non-Communists, and talks bngan with opposition leaders on thnir demands for a nPw national govPrnmPnt. 
Lnad1~rs of thP Communist­controlled labor organization took the unprncPdPntPd stPp of endorsing a general strike that thn opposition has threatened if the national government is not rhangl'd this week. 
An lntPrior Ministry an­nouncPment said work on dis­mantling fortifications on the border with Austria would be­gin Monday. The government said last week some of the barbed wirP. watch towers and trip wires would be taken down. 
About 2,000 demonstrating students chantPd "Resign! Re­sign!" as Ladislav Adamec, the Communist premiPr, met with dissident playwright Vaclav Havel on demands for a new Cabinet to replace the Commu­nist-dominated one chosen Sunday. 
Jiri Dienstbier, spokesman for Havel's opposition group, Civic Forum, said the discus­sions would continue Wednes­day. Miroslav Pavel, who is head of state television and at­tended the talks, said they were "very complicated." 
Manslaughter case of Miami officer sent to jury 
MIAMI (AI') -Jurors in the trial of the policeman whosP shooting of a black motorcyclist sparked three days of rioting must now de­cidt> if thP officer !ired coldly and delibnrately. or in self­def'Pnse, attorneys said in fi­nal arguments Tuesday. 
The manslaughter trial of officer William Lozano. 31. went to the jury late in the day. Dade County Circuit Judge John Farina told jurors to elect a foreman and to begin deliberations WPdnesaay morning after al­most sf1ven weeks of jury Sf1­1Pction and testimony dosely followPd by an entire city. 
The shooting resultPd in thrPP days of fires, looting and violence. And poliee bought new anti-riot equip­ment and put all officers on notiee in case the verdict touches off renewed racial violence. 

Twice before in this decade, riots broke out when white officers were acquitted in the slayings of blacks. 
Tuesday's final arguments were broadcast live on Mi­ami radio and television. 
But defense attorney Roy Black reminded jurors they should concentrate only on the facts of the case, not on potential unrest caused by their verdict. 
"This case has nothing to do with racial prejudice," said Black. "Your verdict has meaning only in its truth to the case and its effects on a police officer." 
Assistant State Attorney Don Horn told the jurors Lozano had violated the law 
see TRIAL I page 6 

vcrsity will not assign him a specific topic to cover. 
Cosby's book "Fatherhood" became the fastest-selling hardcover book ever when pub­lished in May 1986. "Time Flies," his next book, was also a best-seller. 
His latest book, "Love and Marriage," was published in April. 
The NBC television show, "The Cosby Show." has been number one in viewership for the past five years. Its popular­ity was perhaps best noted by a viewer who said. "Before his show hit the air. many viewers had rejected primetime televi­sion as an electronic guigol of crime, slime, glitz, and glands." 
"What Cosby offered instead was a gentle, whimsical, warm­hearted sitcom about family life that found humor in the little things that happen in every home and everlasting value in the love and trust that exist between parents and children." 
His career began 25 years ago in stand-up comedy. He went on to become the best­selling comedian of all time on records. 
see COSBY I paqe 6 


AP Photo An East German border guard stands on a ladder looking over the Wall to watch construction work on extending a border crossing at checkpoint Heinrich-Heine-Strasse Monday. 
Opposition groups say the general strike will take place Monday unless the 21-member Cabinet, which contains only five non-Communists, is re­placed before then. 
Dienstbier called the new Czech government "a step in the right direction," but said its composition still was not an accurate reflection of public opinion. 
The parliamentary commis­sion investigating the police violence Nov. 17 that started the nation's peaceful revolt, said Tuesday that ousted Communist Party chief Milos Jakes and Miroslav Stepan, the former Prague party boss, 
"bear direct political responsibility" for the crackdown. 
It proposed that six senior police officers be fired to pre­vent them influencing the inves­tigation. 
The Czech cabinet named to serve under Premier Frantisek Pitra, a Communist, includes nine non-Communists and seven members of the party. It is the first government of any kind in Czechoslovakia since 1948 not to be dominated by Commu­nists. 
Two ministe.rs are from the Socialist Party and two from the People's Party, both of which had been docile allies of the Communists but are playing an increasingly independent role. 
After the government was 
announced, the People's Party 
demanded an immediate change 
to give non-Communists more 
power. It also demanded the 
party relinquish control of the 
Czech interior ministry, which 
oversees the regional police. 
In a statement, the party said it wants 50 percent of cabinet posts given to non-party ex­perts, with the Communists and two other parties sharing the other half. 

• Dienstbier said Civic Forum endorsed the People's Party demands. 
Bush, White House respond to aftershocks of Malta summit 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The White House, dealing with aftershocks from the Malta summit, attempted to quell criticism from conservatives Tuesday and play down any dif­ferences between President Bush and Vice President Dan Quayle on the Soviet Union. 
On another summit topic, the administration said the meeting enabled Bush to look ahead to possible budget savings two years from now as a result of likely arms reductions. 
White House press secretary Marlin Fitzwater said that if an agreement is signed next year to slash long-range nuclear missiles, "I think that could have an impact, certainly" on the budget that would be sub­mitted the following January. 
Bush, on his first day back in the Oval Office, got a standing ovation from his Cabinet, sum­moned to the White House for a report on his two days of talks with Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev. 
Bush ignored questions from reporters about Quayle, who has offered a more guarded and skeptical post-summit assessment of the Soviets than Bush has. 
Quayle, in an interview with The Washington Post, called the Soviet Union "a totalitarian government" and said "I don't think they've changed much in foreign policy." 
Bush, on the other hand, said after the summit, "We stand at the threshold of a brand new era of U.S.-Soviet relations." He also said Gorbachev's en­dorsement of reforms in East­ern Europe "absolutely man­dates new thinking" by the West. 
Explaining the diffenmce, Bush's national security ad­viser, Brent Scowcroft. said, "We have an administration that is very closely aligned but I think it probably not possible for people to speak literally with one voice." 
"And there may from time to time be difference of perspec­tive but there's no difference in the substance of the policies we're pursuing." 
For months, Quayle has voiced a harder line than Bush toward the Soviet Union. It has been suggested the .vice presi­dent was deliberately playing to the conservatives as part of a White House strategy to keep 
.their support. 
But Quayle said Tuesday that 
"there's no good guy, bad guy 
strategy:· 


Wednesday, December 6, 1989
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Commercialism spoiling value of college athletics 
Anyone lucky enough to be at the Orang1~ Howl over Thanksgiving to watch Miami trounce the Notre DamP foot­ball tmtm also got to watch a Domino's Pizza truek deliver the game ball bnfore the opening kickoff. 

Throughout the--------­
game. the crowd was 
bombarded with com 

mercia) announcements from Gatorade, 
Eastern Airlines and Nikc, the "orricial 
sponsors of the University of Miami football 
season." 

The crowd at the Notre Dame men's bas­
ketball season opener against San 
Francisco was fortunate enough to learn 
that Pizza Hut was a proud sponsor of the 
team this season. 

One might expect blatant commercialism from a school like the University of Miami. Whatever one may think of Miami, however, it is wrong for colleges and univHrsities to accept corporate sponsorship for their ath­letic programs. 
It may be true that the costs of maintain­ing an athletic program are increasing dramatically. Hut this is not an exeuse for accepting "sponsors" for tnams. 
College athletics should remain untainted by commericalism. Colleges establish athletic programs for various reasons, most of them good. 
Athletics provide entertainment for stu­dents and fans. They teach participants and spectators ideas of sportsmanship and fair play. They provide role models for young people across the country. They allow stu­dents who might otherwise be unable to afl"ord it a chance at a college education. 
Allowing corporations to sponsor college sporting events essentially corrupts the admirable goals for which such athletic programs were established. Advertising before and during basketball and football games tells students and fans that colleges and universities no longer view their athletic programs principally as entertainment, but as revenue sources. 
If a basketball or football program can­not support itself with the revenues from ticket sales and television and radio con­tracts, then perhaps the organizers should examine why they cannot stay financially in the black. 
As a last resort, raise ticket prices; fans expect to pay for what they see, and if a good basketball or football program re­quires a higher ticket price, fans will be willing to pay to support their team. 
The past few years have seen the trans­formation of bowl games from "The Fiesta Howl" to "The Sunkist Fiesta Bowl," and from "The Orange Bowl" to "The Federal Express Orange Bowl." The commercializa­tion of college athletics must stop now. Otherwise, it is only a matter of time until we see "The Pizza Hut-University of Notre Dame Fighting Irish" stamped across sea­son football tickets. 

P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. lndtana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Tuesday"s Staff  
News Florentine Hoelker John O"Brien Amy Leroux Matt Gallagher Acalnl Terri Walsh AI ison Cocks  Production Chris Labaree Greg Tice VIewpoint Kim Skiles Colleen Stepan Systems Tim Quinn Tim Kieler  Ad Design Amy Eckert Val Poletto Meg Callahan Shannon Roach Kristie Rolke Spor1s Ken Tysiac  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) IS published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vaca11on penods The Observer IS a member of the Assoc1ated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
~.

'f;'.,
.. 

Matt Gallagher Exec. News Editor 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Wednesday, December 6_ 
Lines show high temperatures. 
® 

FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1989 Accu-Weather, Inc 
Pressure  
®©  t~~  [uJ  M  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT CLOUDY  CLOUDY  

OF INTEREST 
All Notre Dame women arc invited to eat dinner HPC Family Focus discussion "Divorce in the and study at the Saint Mary's Library today. Catholic Family" will be held tonight at 8 p.m. in tlw Grace Hall pit.
An El Salvador lunch will be served Thursday, Dee. 7, from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. Proceeds go to 2 parishes in El Salvador. 
WORLD 

Using ancient Chinese annals, scientists have dated one of the most powerful volcanic eruptions in rncorded history -a blast 3,600 years ago that inspired the legend of the sunken civilization of Atlantis. NASA said Tuesday. The Santorini volcano destroyed much of the Aegean Sea island of Thera, and ejected enough sun­blocking debris into the atmosphere to chill Earth's cli­mate and cause summer frost, heavy rain, crop failure and famine in China. "You're talking about (the equivalent oO 2 million Hiroshima atomic bombs going off at the same time," NASA said. 
NATIONAL 

The Bush administration began looking for a suc­cessor to savings and loan regulator M. Danny Wall on Tuesday, while the chairman of the House Banking Committee said hearings that led to Wall's resignation were "just the beginning" of the investigation. The admin­istration wants a professional regulator to head the Of­fice of Thrift Supervision, rather than an appointee whose chief qualifications are political connections, according to an industry source, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Poet May Swenson, whose work can be found in many anthologies and who was a regular contributor to the New Yorker, has died. She was· 76. Swenson died Monday at Peninsula General Hospital in Salisbury. Md. The cause of death was not immediately known, but Swenson had high blood pressure and asthma, said her sister. A native of Logan, Utah, Swenson moved to New York in the 1930s and published her first book of poems, "Another Animal," in 1954. 
INDIANA MARKET UPDATE 
A Taylor University professor and a Val­paraiso woman are among the more than 200 Americans stranded in the Philippinns because of fighting in Manila, officials said Tuesday. Jessica Rousselow, a Taylor University communications professor, had been teaching at an extension uni­versity in Singapore before she stopped at the Philippines on her return to Indiana. Penny Bele­gal, 47, of Valparaiso has also been trapped in the Philippines since rebels threatened to shoot down all planes departing from Manila Interna­tional Airport. 
Two anti-drug crusading priests were arrested for trespassing Tuesday in a downtown Hammond store, police said. The Rev. George Clements and the Rev. Michael Pfleger, both of Chicago, and two other men were detained by po­lice after they refused to leave The Good Stuff Store in downtown Hammond, police said. 

Israeli soldiers Tuesday killed five h(~avily arnwd Arab guerrillas who crossed the border from Egypt and planned a "spectacular" terrorist attack to mark the an­niversary of the Palnstinian uprising, thn army said. Is­raeli jets staged their second raid into Lebanon in the past 12 days in an attnmpt to forestall further infiltra­tions coinciding with the uprising's second anniversary on Friday. Lebanese police said snven people were wounded. 
Some adjustments had to be made when 9­year-old Ben Williamson entered Pensacola (Fla.) High School's International Baccalaureate honors program after skipping four elementary grades. His books were too heavy for the 4-foot, 6-inch freshman to carry by himself, so the school issued him a second set to keep at home. Ben is allowed to eat lunch in the honors program office becausn he is afraid of some of his larger school­mates and prefers playing checkers there with another student or chess with a retired math professor. 
Children are squaring off against selectmen in Hatfield, Mass. with a letter-writing campaign attacking a plan to kill a group of beavers that officials say are threatening $350,000 worth of road repairs. "If you were in the way, would you want (the beavers) to kill you," wrote one student at Breor Elementary School. 
ALMANAC 
On December 6: 

e In 1917: Finland gains its independence. 
e In 1921: Dominion status given to Ireland. 
e In 1957: U.S. satellite launch fails. 
e In 1973: Gerald Ford sworn in as vice president. 
e In 1976: Pardons Board votes to uphold Gary Gilmore's death sentence. 
Yesterday's High: 35 
Yesterday's Low: 25 
Nation's High: 83 

(Woodland Hills, Calif.) 
Nation's Low: -22 

(Saranac Lake, N.Y.) 
Forecast: Cloudy and colder today, high in the middle to low 30s. Cloudy and cold tonight with a 60 percent chance of snow showers, low 15 to 20. Mostly cloudy and continued cold Thursday with a 60 percent chance of snow showers high in the mid­dle 20s . 

Wednesday, December 6, 1989 
HPC presents ways to avoid student criminal records 
By MONICA VANT News Writer 
Students charged with a first­time misdenwanor can avoid a criminal record by participating in the pre-trial diversion pro­gram, according to Vinny Sanchez, judicial board coordi­nator. 
The issue was discussed at Tuesday's Hall Presidents' Council meeting in response to last Friday night's raid of the Commons tavern in which over 27 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were arrested. 
The program involves com­munity service, paying a user's fee, and reimbursement for damages or medical expenses, if involved in the crime. The misdemeanor will be erased from the student's record, Sanchez said. Each residence hall has a judicial board chair­person who can answer any questions regarding the pro­gram. The judicial board also handles matters concerning ac­cusations of a University of­fense, incidents with South Bend police, and hearings with the Office of Student Affairs. 
E. Germany leaders under house arrest 
EAST BEHLIN (AP) -Erich llonecker and other disgraced formnr leaders were put under house arrest Tuesday, the gov­ernment disarmed the Commu­nist Party's private army and the chiefs of the once-feared smTet police resig111~d. 
East Germans, furious about 

.. past corruption, surrounded secret police offices in several cities to stop further destruc­tion of documents that could be used to prosecute llonecker, who was party chief for 18 years, and his former lieu­tenants. Under llonecker, the secret police were the main instrument for keeping people under control. The official news agency ADN reported Tuesday t that its 19 officials 
resigned but the new chief, Lt. Gen. Wolfgang Schwanitz, would remain in office. 
Schwanitz has criticized the organization's past role in crushing dissent. 
Gwmter Wendland, the chief prosecutor, also resigned fol­lowing allegations that he was unfit to lead corruption investi­gations. Wendland was a holdover from the Honecker era. 
Communist Party leaders ap­pealed for calm to avoid "anarchy and chaos" in a na­tion that, in two months, has seen the dismissal of two sets of leaders, mass pro-democracy protests, the historic opening of its borders and promises of free elections and other reforms. 
The Judicial Board has pro­posed an amendment to the Constitution of the Undergrad­uate Student Body of Notre Dame to eliminate the office of the Ombudsman in student gov­ernment. 
The constitution states the purpose of the Office of the Ombudsman as being "to serve the Notre Dame community as an information gathering and disseminating organization." Its duties include distributing tickets in cooperation with the JACC and running elections. 
Student media organizations, like The Observer and Scholas­tic, have since taken over the communication activities of the Ombudsman, Sanchez said. The Judicial Board will assume the responsibility of running elec­tions if the amendment is passed, through the Ombuds­man Election Committee. 
Under the proposed amend­ment, the student body presi­dent will determine the process of ticket distribution working with the JACC, Sanchez said. 
The Observer 

Bank robber threatens suicide 
AP Photo 

An FBI agent takes aim at a bank robbery suspect after a shootout with police in Knoxville, Tenn. The suspect had flashed a peace sign and threatened to turn the gun on himself, when a Knoxville police­man allegedly shot the gun from the suspect's hand. Another officer was shot in the stomach at the scene. 
Gumbleton lectures on U.S.-Vietnam ties 
By ANNETTE SEMANCHIN News Writer 
United States citizens show a lack of concern about both the Vietnam War and the many devastating effects of the war, according to Bishop Thomas Gumbleton. 
Gumbleton refers to the U.S. Catholic bishops Pastoral Let­ter, "A Time For Dialogue and Healing," when he offers his plea to the people of the U.S. to work with the brother bishops in Vietnam who are trying des­perately to form better rela­tions between the two coun­tries. 
Gumbleton, who presently serves as the regional bishop for Detroit's inner city parishes, gave a lecture Tues­day, entitled "Can We Make Peace With Vietnam?" 
Bitterness runs deep on both sides which even now, after a long period of "peace," makes reconciliation very difficult, said Gumbleton. However, Gumbleton said that he is con­fident that reconciliation is truly possible. 
What causes relations to be so strained, said Gumbleton, is that the U.S. is openly oppress­ing the economy of Vietnam by imposing an embargo act, which refuses any aid or trade between Vietnam or the U.S. 
Gumbleton said that during his visit to Vietnam, the people cried, "Why do you still wage war against us?" He said that he did not have an answer. 
The first step that must be taken to improve relations be­tween the U.S. and Vietnam, according to Gumbleton, is !o stop denying the "sin" of Viet­nam, and to take some positive action to improve the present situation. 
In explanation of the "sin" of Vietnam, the bishop stated that, "As a nation we are un­able to recognize the tragedy of what we did to that country." 
Another action that needs to be carried out, according to Gumbleton, is to reconcile over­seas Vietnamese with their own people in their homeland, just as U.S. citizens must come to terms with conflicts that oc­curred in the U.S. during and after the Vietnam war. 
Gumbleton said that above all people must not forget the atrocities of the Vietnam War, because "to forget a sin, is in fact a greater evil than commit­ting the sin." 
Gumbleton hopes that some of these steps are taken, so that all hostility can be removed and replaced with a new con­structive relationship that would benefit both nations. 

1989 December week50V Mon 11 
_X-14A8 BR.EAI: 81AR1S 
J OtJ AY I l -----------------­
_NEEtJ 10 EAR.N SSSSS l 
9;00 appt. to register -as a temp for immediate ·-··'''orlc. at exciting downtown -CHICAGO locations II·----­
lfley need college-----­-educated temps to worlc. "as word processors.-­
-receptionists ancl______ general office 6elp. CALL 10tJAY FOR.. MORE 
_..,............. / N FO 1{/14 A110N l ----­___3 12-372-11500...__..._.. 
INCLUDES:

GROUP RATES 

• Ride to and from airportAVAILABLE • Deluxe Room·1 to 4persons 
• 24hr Room Service

Rental Cars Available 
• 
Cable TV/Free HBO 

• 
Ride to Game 

• 
Complimentary welcome






C~l Toi·Free 
drinks 

800-327-6087 • Pool, restaurants and more
TfJe CfJoice for Temporaries 
---------------------~~­

.r.~ 
,..-~ 
I / 

Model30 286 8530-E21  
Memory Processor 3.5-lnch diskette drive  1Mb 80286 (10 MHz) 1.44Mb  2Mb 80386SX™ (16Mhz) 1.44Mb  Options with any order,  
Fixed disk drive  20Mb  30Mb  
Micro ChanneiTII architecture  Yes  Lotus 1-2-3 $100  
Display Software  Monochrome 0083.3 WordPerfect  Monochrome DOS 3.3 WordPerfect  Color Monitors $230  
Price  $1,995  $2,950  

Now with Immediate Delivery! 
Three of the most popular IDM Proprinters™ are available now at special low prices, and slightly longer delivery. 
Proprinter III w/Cable ( 4201/003) $406 Proprinter X24E w/Cable (4207/002) $549 Proprinter XL24E w/Cable (4208/002) $736 Start out the new year right. Check out all 
these special savings now-before it's too late! 
How'reyougoingtodoit? PS/2 it! 
Notre Dame Computer Store Computing Center and Math Building 239-7477 
-----_,. 
_..._,_

_----­
"This offer IS limited to qualified students. faculty and staff who order an IBM PS/2 Model 8530-E21 or 8555-031 through December 31. 1989 Pr~ces quoted do not 1nclude sales tax Prices above do 1nclude a handling charge Check w1th your institution regard1ng th1s charge •iBM and PS/2 are reg1stered trademarks of International Bus1ness Mach1nes Corporation "'Proprinter and Micro Channel are trademarks of International Bus1ness Mach1nes Corporation "'80386SX and 80386 are trademarks of Intel Corporation Pr~ces are subject to change and IBM may withdraw the promot1on at any t1me w1thout wntten not1ce 1mmed1ate delivery for cash and cash1ers check payment only. Allow approximately 7 days for personal check orders 
Wednesday, December 6, 1989 
Greenpeace accuses Navy of 'maliciousness' in incident 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The protest group Greenpeace on Tuesday accused the Navy of "maliciousness" in ramming its flagship as it protested the test launch of a Trident II missile. The Navy says it did not ram the ship. 
"We have a message for the Navy," Greenpeace USA Execu­tive Director Peter Bahouth told a news conference. "We are going to take legal action. They am go!!1g to have to pay us damages. 
llfl declinfld to give details or say how much the group might seek in damages for the alleged incident Monday in the Atlantic Ocean 50 miles off the Florida coast just before the submarine Tennessee fired the $26.5 mil­lion missile. 
The Navy denied that it rammed the 887-ton ship Greenpeace. The service said that it respected the group's right to protest but that it also had a right under international law to protect itself on the high seas. 
At the news conference, Greenpeace leaders showed videotapes of two vessels identified as the Navy tugs Grasp and Kittiwake spraying the decks of the Greenpeace and pulling alongside. The tapes showed gaping holes in the hull of the Greenpeace; group leaders said the gashes resulted from rammings by the tugs. 
The videotapes also showed Greenpeace activists in an in­flatablfl spe!ldboat approach what appeared to be an an­tenna from a submerged sub­marine. The group's leaders said the object was the radio mast of the Tennessee. 
The group said Navy com­mandos cut the fuel lines of two inflatable speedboats and re­turned them to the mother ship. 
I "t2 ???
s 1 a.m. yet. .. 
Happy 19th 
Have a great birthday Poke-it 
Love, Katie 

What ifyou are called into the Office of Student Affairs for a hearing or conference? 
What if you are accused of a University offense, on or off campus? 
What if you should have a run in with South Bend Police? 
What should you do? 
What are your rights? 

Your hall J-Board Chairperson can help answer these and similar questions that you might 
have. 

Alumni---Pat Costello Badin---Danielle Duchatellier Breen-Phillips---Ellen Lewis Carroll---Neil Durso Cavanaugh---Tony Kuzola Dillon---John Villa Farley---Janet Westenberger Fisher---Joe Plant Flanner---Kevin Costello Grace---Dan Collins Holy Cross---Miguel Ladao Howard---Alycia Tozar Keenan---Warren DeSouza Knott---Liz Toole Lewis---Theresa Vithayathil 
Lyons---Heather Meaney 
Morrissey---John Grafer 
Pangborn---Pat Kusek 
P. E.---Karen Mcintire 
P. W.---Kate Brown 
St. Ed's---David Early Siegfried---Susan Ramirez 
Sorin---John Dice Stanford---Michael Ferguson 
---Robert Johns Walsh---Laura Olszewski ---Kelly Morrison Zahm---Steve Pociask 
If any of the above questions apply to you, call you hall J-Board chairperson, or: Vinny Sanchez, Undergraduate Student Counsel Office: Student Government, 2nd Floor LaFortune Office Hours: M. W. F. 2:00-3:00 T. Th. 1:00-2:00 Office Phone: 239-6283 Campus: 442 Keenan--Phone:3405/3406 Melissa Smith, Assistant Judicial Coordinator Campus: 312 Howard--Phone: 2537 They will provide answer for you. 

---~-·-------------~-----­

WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush made three conces­sions at the Malta summit that were overshadowed in the euphoria and confusion sur­rounding the first-ever joint U.S.-Soviet presidential news conference. 
Those steps met longstanding Soviet requests and marked a political milestone for a man who had reacted cautiously to the reforms of Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev. 
Administration officials said Tuesday, however, that the fine print still needed to be written on Bush's offers involving the lifting of trade sanctions against Moscow and a halt in 
U.S. production of chemical 
Although the summit pro­duced no clear arms control breakthroughs, and was not expected to, Bush gave Gor­bachev these welcome bits of news: 
•He 
would take steps to ease tariffs on Soviet exports to America. 

•He 
would seek observer sta­tus for the Kremlin in a major international trade group. 

•He 
was altering his previous, and for the Soviets unpalatable, proposal on chemical weapons, seeking to sign a treaty for the June summit to destroy most 


U.S. and Soviet chemical weapons stockpiles. 
Several major U.S. and Soviet steps are necessary before Bush grants the Soviet Union most-favored-nation status, easing tariffs on Soviet imports to the United States. 
First, the United States and the Soviets must reach a com­
-

mercia! treaty, said a U.S. offi­cial who expects the American side "to be in talks with the So­viets in the next six or eight weeks." Bush proposed that he and Gorbachev sign such a treaty at the summit they are planning in America in the last two weeks of June. 
Second, Bush must waive provisions of a 197 4 law that barred most-favored-nation status for the Soviet Union until the Kremlin eased its emi­gration policies. Soviet authori­ties have relaxed the rules, and the emigration of Jews and other minorities is headed for record levels this year. 
At Malta, however, Bush told Gorbachev he would not waive the 197 4 law until the Soviet parliament passes legislation giving the new emigration rules greater permanence, and the 
· parliament is not due back in session until late January. 

LIVE IN JAPAN 
lnternauooal Educllion ServlcesiiVIIIs •••llclllm II~ 1ne Ylll' assignment In Japan teaching English language skills In schoal semngs as well as to Japanese Business people from major corporatloos and government omces. Minimum academic requirement Is aBachelm degree; same work experience desirable. Uberal Arts degree holders as well as those with specialized ••urees o.e. management, engineering, pharmaceuUcal, securiUes, nnance, languages, education, etc.) are encouraged tu apply. Please submn current resume and cover lener accompanied by arecent photo to: International Educllllll Service 
s•11-TIIID Building 
10-7 DogeDZBka, 2-chome 
Shibuya-ku, Tokyo 150 JAPAN 
Fu Number: 103-483-70B9 
Ticket Price: $7.00 inc1 udes ... bus and tickets to m of Science Art Institute Field Museum of of Chicago Natural History 
plus... l ots of time to shop & sfghtsee! 
Lafortune nformation Desk 1:00-4:00 Nov. 29-Dec. 9 

Wednesday, December 6, 1989 
page 6 The Observer 
Cosby Report: Colombian jet crash caused by bomb 
continued from page 1 

Cosby began acting on the tPlnvision series. "I Spy," and has been featured in several fr~ature films. His production company has developed televi­sion shows, including "A Dif­fnrnnt World," whieh is set at a lktional black college. 
lin and his wife's contribu­tions to predominantly black colleges havr~ brought national attlmtion to the importance of the institutions as well as fur­thering the cause of minority higher education. 
Cosby holds an Panwd doc­toratl~ in education from the University of Massachusetts, and will receive an honorary doctor of laws from Notre l>anw. the press release said. 
Trial 
continued from page 1 

and police policy when he shot 
Clnnwnt l.loyd, 23, in the head 
on the night of Jan. 16. 

l.loyd and his passenger, Al­lan Blanchard, both black, died -Blanchard from injuries suf­fr~rnd in the subsequent crash. 
"lie intentionally placed him­self out tlwre," said llorn of Lozano's position near thn path of the oncoming motorcyr.le. "lin had time to pull the gun, aim tlw gun, concentrate on the motorcyeln and fire as it pass1~d on his left." 
In a rebuttal of Black's ar­gument, Assistant State Attor­ney John llogan, the lead pros­ecutor, told jurors they nend not lind that Lozano aetr~d out of malice, only that he was guilty of nnglignnen. 
Black dismissed Lozano's tes­
timony that he lired in self-de­
fense, noting conllicts with 
prosecution witnesses and his 
initial statemrmts to investiga­
tors. 

"lin's lying, he's lying. That's why he changed his story," llorn said. "The story is not worthy of bnlil'f." 
llorn said all the prosncution witnessns had hPard the motor­cycle approaching from at least a block away, while Lozano claimed he never noticnd it until it was almost upon him. 
"lin stnppPd out thnrn, lw ch~­ddl'd hn was going to shoot, and lw shot," llorn said. "All lw had to do was step behind tlw police t'ar." 
But dnl'nnse attorney Black callnd thn case a political at­tnmpt to dampr~n ethnie unrest. 
"lie's sort of like a pawn caught up in forces beyond his control," Black said. 
lie called prosecution argu­ments that Lozano had the time and thn duty to retreat from the advaneing motorcycle a threat to good law enforce­ment. 
On January 1st. Eurallpass rates go up! Buy your pass in December and you·n st1tt be able to start us1ng 1t anyt1me before July 1, 1990. Call us lor details on Eurail. Studentl'rbuth/Facuny flights. lnl'l StudenVYoulhfTeachef I. 0 cards. Study and Work Abroad Programs. 
BOGOTA, Colombia (AP) ­Crash investigators said Tues­day that a Colombian jet carry­ing 107 people disintegratnd in a fireball two weeks ago, mo­ments after a bomb blew a hole in the fuselage and flooded the passenger cabin with fuel. 
The disclosure came hours aftnr a judge investigating drug traffickers was assassinated, the fourth judge killed in 15 weeks. 
The government did not say who planted the bomb under a stratngieally located seat in the 15th row of the Avianea Air­lines Boeing 727, bound for Cali from Bogota. 
But suspicion immediately fell on drug lords who targeted schools, hotels, restaurants and other public buildings in 
1 I 
bombings throughout Colombia after the government declared war on illegal drug operations last August. The 201 bombings have killed 29 people and wounded 238. 
Authorities assume the traf­fickers are trying to force the government to stop extraditing Colombian drug suspects. Pres­ident Virgilio Barco's adminis­tration has sent nine suspects to the United States since launching its anti-narcotics of­fensive. 
Minister of Government Car­los Lemos told a news confer­ence Tuesday the airliner bomb "is perhaps a sign of what lays ahead" for Colombia. Lemos is acting as president while Barco is on a state visit to Japan. 
Flight 203 exploded minutes 

after taking off from Bogota's 
international airport on a Nov. 
27 domestic flight, killing all 
aboard. 
Investigators said a bomb 
blast ruptured the fuel tank in 
the right wing. 
"The bomb was placed 
strategically under seat 15F, 
which is very close to the fuel 
tank that burst and caused the 
lire the destroynd the aircraft," 
the director of the Civil Aviation 
Authority, Yezid Castano, told 
reporters. 
"Around an enwrgency door 
there is evidnncn of an outward 
force of such power that ob­jects inside tlw plane were blown ~~ut at 20,000 feet per second. 
Police sought a mystnry man suspectPd of planting the bomb, 
"The Travelers will give you as much _~ training as you can handle. Your education never ends." 
\ 

Castano said. lie said one of two men who had reserved seats 15E and 15F returned to the Avianca countnr after pass­ing through security. 
The man had purchased two tickets, one for himself in the name of Julio Santodomingo, the othnr in the name of Albnrto Prieto. "Prieto" stayed aboard. "Santodomingo" left the Avianca countnr and vanishnd. 
The real .Julio Santodomingo is ownnr of Avianca Airlinns. 
Last .Junn, .Jaramillo ordered destroynd 770 pounds of co­caine and nvc modern process­ing laboratorir~s srdzed by police in SPgovia, 175 miles northwest of Bogota. 
Jaramillo was also looking into thn massacn~ of 43 pnoph~ in Sngovia on Nov. 11. 1988. 
\ 
\ 

Mary Yanaros, Account Executive-National Accounts Group. University of Connecticut, Class of 1986 
Mary came to The Travelers because of the depth of our training. She wasn't disappointed. In fact, she just completed our 3-year Financial Man­agement Development Program. ''I'm able to apply everything I learned," she says. "Now I look forward to going further." 
Right now, we have a diverse range of entry­level positions for college graduates who, like Mary, have an ongoing desire to improve their abilities. Careers in finance, underwriting, data processing, engineering, actuarial and more. All offering outstanding growth potential. 
The Travelers is a $50 billion leader in the rapidly changing insurance and financial services industry. If you have the ability and ambition it takes to keep up with our evolving, dynamic business, find out more about the many exciting opportunities and excellent training programs we offer. ' 
Sign up for an interview at your placement office. Or send your resume and a copy of your transcript to: Antonia Nabholz, Assistant Director, College Relations, The Travelers Companies, One Tower Square, Hartford, CT 06183-7060. 
INTERVIEWS: 2/13 & 14, '90 SIGN UP BEFORE: 1/17/90 
TheTravelersT 
You're better off under the Umbrella~ 
The Travelers Companies, Hartford, Connecticut 06183 An Equal Opportunity Employer 

-~~-------------·------------,--------------------------------------~-------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, December 6, 1989 
The Observer page 7 
Philippine cease fire 
MANILA, Philippines (AP) ­Government and rebel forces deelamd a temporary cease-fire ,Wednt~sday and began evacuat­ing Americans and other for­eigners from hotels in the fi­nancial district where they were 
trapped for four days. 
Vicky Benito. a n~eeptionist at 
the Manila Garden llotel in the 
Makati district of this capital, 
said Wednesday morning that 
the rebels trying to overthrow 
Pn~sident Corazon Aquino were 
fnwing Americans. 
"All Americans are safe," she 
said. "The Americans are all 
OK." 
At least 77 peopiP have been 
killed and more than 540 
wounded since rPbel soldiers 
b1~gan their coup attempt Fri­
day. 
A n~bPI officer said on Tues­
day that thP estimated 215 
trappPd Americans might not 
go freP because of U.S. support 
for Mrs. Aquino during the 
uprising. including providing 
air cover early in the revolt. 
"I just want to report that we 
Happy 21st Birthday Shannon. 
Love, Mom, Dad, Heather and Tim 

have successfully evacuated the tourists and the guests here at the Manila Garden," said Narzalina Lim. an undersecre­tary of tourism. "I hope the other hotels will follow suit." 
About 2,000 foreigners were believed trapped in hotels and apartments in the area, which the rebels seized Saturday on the second day of their upris­ing. Officials said that was an estimate and they had no solid figure. 
Max Motschmann, a West German expatriate who helped in the negotiations, said rebel and loyalist forces agreed to a truce until the evacuation is complete. He expected the op­eration to be over by noon. 
lie said rebels were allowing two buses at a time to enter the battle zone, shuttling between the hotel district and a staging area a short distance away. 
Manila radio stations said about nine busloads of foreign­ers were taken out of fashion­able Makati suburb. 
Safe passage for the foreign­ers was delayed Tuesday. How­

ever, hundreds of other resi­dents of the district were able to flee amid the most serious coup attempt so far against Mrs. Aquino, who took office in February 1986 after a popular uprising drove the late Presi­dent Ferdinand Marcos into Hawaiian exile. 
Wednesday's evacuation in­cluded not only foreigners and Filipinos in the area's three luxury hotels but also in con­dominiums lining Ayala Avenue and other thoroughfares. 
Manila radio stations broad­cast instructions-to condo­minium residents to stay in front of their buildings until the buses arrived for pickup. They were urged to carry only essentials and to leave most of their belongings behind. 
Stations urged residents of areas outside the battle zone to offer accommodation to for­eigners because other hotels in the Manila area were already jammed with Makati residents who fled earlier. 

Scores of Americans arrived Tuesday at the U.S. Seafront housing compound, where U.S. Marines stood guard. Others moved to hotels near Manila Bay, about five miles west of the fighting. 
Rafael Alunan, undersecre­tary of tourism, negotiated Tuesday with the rebel leader in Makati. Talks at the Intercon­tinental Hotel ended at sunset. Alunan said they would resume Wednesday. The rebels offered on Monday to let the foreigners leave. 
But insurgent Capt. Albert 
Yen said that "the intention is 
not to release Americans." 
"U.S. meddling has caused 
the failure of the first wave of 
our assault, so we hold them li­
able. It is the responsibility of 
the U.S. government if we take 
their nationals hostage." 
On Friday, U.S. F-4 Phantom jets flew air cover for loyalist forces. 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
News Copy Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal 
statement to Matt Gallagher (239-5303) no later than noon on Friday, December 8, 1989. A decision will be posted in The Observer office bv Mondav, December 11 1989 
L.A. high­rise fire injures 40 

LOS ANGELES (AP) -Fifteen people trapped by a fire raging in a nine-story downtown building Tuesday were plucked from the roof by 1:J. helicopter, authorities said. Forty people were injured in the fire. 
The building housed apart­ments and businesses, said Fire Department spokesman Jim Wells. The fire broke out just before noon and was out in about a half-hour. 
In addition to those rescued by helicopter, about 30 others escaped down ladders extended to the sixth and seventh floors of the building, said Manny Hernandez, another Fire De­partment spokesman. 
"They were scared and cry­ing. The women were crying and hugging each other when they got to the ground," Her­nandez said. 
Flames shot out the windows and smoke billowed across the downtown skyline from the fire, which started on the sixth floor and burned part of the seventh floor, Hernandez said. Smoke damage occurred throughout the upper floors, he said. 
Of the 40 people hurt, 18 
were  hospitalized, authorities  
said,  most  for smoke inhala­ 
tion.  None  of the  15  people  

plucked from the roof of the building was injured, authori­
ties said. 

"I was working on the sev­enth floor and I smelled smoke. I called to people, 'Fire, I smell smoke, everyone out, fire!,"' 

•za•t)-.c~~-~,.._i'a'i,_..~---JJ-If.•f:,_lt-II_J_:I-,_-il.ll-11-f-tJ I -11-w.K~~---w 
I
Passing the CPA Exam Open House 
• Half Price Course Drawing · Job Hunting Guide • Refreshments Served 
Wednesday, December 6 5:00p.m. Montgomery Theater -LaFortune Center 
i[H ~!I il ~'~I ~'''JI 
':::;;;;;;;;;;:::::::::::::::::::::::::;;:::::::::~..~C:h~ri:s~J:eong, 28,said. 



Viewpoint 
Wednesday, December 6, 1989
page 8 

-=Dte _Qbset:Ver 
P.0. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelfy 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg•s Coccta R1ch Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor Mat1hew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly K1llen Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelty Production Manager Ahson Cocks Accent Editor John Bias• Systems Mgr Bernard Brennrnkmeyer Photo Editor .Enc Ba1ley OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chnstine Gill Controller Anne L1ndner 
The Observer rs the •ndependent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's Colfege. It does not necessanly reflect the pol­ICies of the administration of e1ther Institution The news IS reported as accurately and ob­tectrvely as poss•ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1mon of the matonty of the follow1ng E:d•tor-•n·Ch•et. Managrng Ed1tor. Executtve News Ed1tor. V1ewpom1 Ed•tor Sports Edttor Accent Edttor. Photo Editor. Sarnt Mary's Edttor Commentanes. letters. and the lnstde Column present the vtews of thetr authors. Column space IS avatlable to all members ot the commun•ty and the tree expression of vary•ng oprn•ons on campus. through letters •s encouraged 

LETTERS 

Program helps bail out first-time offenders 
Dear Hditor: not an admission of guilt. A sion from the program. 
You have just been arrested defendant who enters the After complying with the at an ofT-campus party. After program has his or her case agreement for that year, the panicking, ask yourself the fol-held out of court for one year. charges are dismissed, and a lowing questions: During that year, the defendant permanent criminal conviction llave I been charged with a makes an agreement with the record is avoided. In most misdemeanor? Prosecutor's Office. The cases, the Prosecutor's Office Is this my first criminal of-agreement contains the does not oppose a motion to 
fensn? following elements for the the eourt for expungement of Do I want to avoid a criminal defendant: the arrest record. Such a roo­record? 1. Pay a program user's fee tion is a civil matter. Am I willing to serve my of $50 and $10 for the follow-The Pre-Trial Diversion Pro-community? ing 11 months, $160 in all, de-gram has been an enormous 
Will I reimburse the victim of pending on a person's ability to success in St. Joseph County. the crime for which I have been pay. S3% of those who have entered charged? 2. Do not get into further the program Of this 83% 
If you answered "yes" to all trouble. success rate, only 4% got into five questions, then you are el-3. Receive counseling depend-more trouble in the 18 months igible for the Pre-Trial Diver-ing on the offense, with alcohol following their completion of sion Program of the St. Joseph offenses carrying mandatory the program. Many ND and County Prosecutor's Office. The substance abuse evaluations. SMC students have benefitted program was established by 4. Community service for from this program that helps state statute and has been in those who do not receive exten-first-time offenders. So, if you place since May 15, 1985. It sive counseling. ever find yourself in trouble, formalized the old practice of 5. Hestitution to the victim, keep this program and its dealing with first-time offend-depending on the offense. benefits in mind. ers in criminal misdemeanor 6. Keep Director Scopelitis matters by cutting them a informed of address changes Rob Johns break if they avoid further and whereabouts. Chairman trouble. Failure to follow the elements Judicial Council 
Entrance into the program is of the agreement brings expul-Nov. 28, 1989 
Judicial Coordinator lends a helping hand 
/Jear Hditor: you have? board chairpersons of each 
Tlw issue of our rights as As a student you have plenty dorm on campus. You also have students at the University of of rights. First. you have the the right to be accompanied by Notre Damn is important to all right to undergraduatfl counsel. the Undergraduate Student of us. Hight now you may lw As the Student Body Judicial Counsel to your disciplinary wondering what rights I am re­Coordinator, I sp,rve the student hearing. Simply put, the chair­ferring to or what it matters. body as its Undergraduate Stu­persons from each dorm and I 
But what happens if you are dent Counsel. Students often are available to provide you accused of a University offense, assume that I am a member of with assistance with any prob­on or ofT campus, or have a run the Office of Student Affairs lem either on or off campus in with the South Bend police? when, actually, I am a student concerning University or South No one wonders about this trying to help other students Bend violations. question until they receive a let­who are in trouble with the For the name of the chairper­ter from the Office of Student University or with South Bend son in you dorm, my office Affairs or are arrested. Fur­police. hours, and how I can be tlwrmore, no one usually mads What does this mean to you reached, please see the ad on DuLac until they need to refer­as a student? Any time you are page five. Save that informa­ence the rights that they have accused of a University offense tion because you never know as students. and are called into the Office of when you may need it. 
What do you do if you are ac­Student Affairs for either a dis­Vinny Sanchez cused of a University offense or ciplinary conferP.nce or hearing, Judicial Coordinator dted or arrested by tlw South you have the right to consult Undergraduate Student Counsel Bend police? What rights to with me or any of the judicial Dec. 4, 1989 
DOONESBURY 
0'<4Y. 8/.)(.J(/IRt)().' 8CFORE U/13 5TAI<T 7H~ /NTEiRVI/311J5, A R3/AJ WORIJS ABOUT TH& /<Ut£5 OF 


Dear Editor: priests? 
Kevin Smant's article in The In fact. because of the immi­
Observer, Nov. 20 entitled nent possibility of a military 
"Leftist Hebels Brutalize to En­coup, Cristiani is often forced 
sure U.S. Pullout" attempted to to make quick eoncessions to 
explain the PMLN's strategy in the right wing, such as his re­
their recent offensive in San cent statement urging all San 
Salvador. Smant claims that Salvadoran priests to leave the 
the FMLN uses the tragic country. The result is a radical 
deaths of innocent citizens as a military acting on it's own and 
tool to force a U.S. pullout. a pownrless president. 
"Make the war barbaric enough By citing the problems of the 
(after all anything is moral if it Salvadoran government, I am 
advances the "revolution"), and in no way trying to make the 
there will inevitably be pressure FMLN out as the "good guy" in 
on the anti-Marxist side to El Salvador. II istory alone tells 
quit." us that a nwolutionary 
I'm not a military strategist, takeover by a military regime 
but I doubt the FMLN would does not guarantee human 
base their entire offensive on rights. As a result, one must 
an emotional response recognize that the conflict in El 
generated from a handful of Salvador is mernly a power 
civilian deaths, especially in a struggle between radical 
country that witnesses thou­groups. In the process of 
sands of deaths a year. achieving power, or preserving 
Smant's true problem, how­it in Cristiani's ease, these 
ever, arises when he seeks to groups have solicited the help 
proclaim "Western" intentions of the superpowers and a con­
as moral and "Marxist" inten­flict of regional power has been 
tions as evil. There is not a blown into a conflict of global 
good guy and bad guy in El Sal­ideologies. 
vador. It would be nice to think The tragedy of such situa­
that the U.S. is supporting an tions has been repeatedly un­
innocent government in El Sal­derstated in the last forty 
vador, but that is just not th6 years. With the reeent and wel­
case. Can President Alfredo comed "thaw" in East/West re­
Cristiani claim that El Salvador lations, it is unfortunatn that 
is a true democracy when it is Mr. Srnant feels it necessary to 
clear that he cannot control his blindly fuel a dying lire. 
radicalized military which is al­/,ance Scott 
legedly responsible for the re­Cavanaugh //all 
cent killings of six Jesuit Nov. 27. 1989 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
GARRY TRUDEAU 
fAUL:Tt Ta45TCR, HAIR f)RY&R INH/5 llJB -?HAT 50/<T 

'The only true journey of 
a=7HIN6. 

knowledge is from the depth of one being to the heart of another.' 
' 

Norman Mailer 
-----------~----------------------------------------__j 





Holiday Shopping -Gui 
SHOP &. DINE••.ONTHE 
PRIMERIB•SEAFOOD~ ~ 
Free 011\wrapplna...••We Ship Anywhere••••• VISA, MASTERCARD 111 S. Nila, Downtown South Bend Tdephooe (21~ 132-1481 Monday-Saturday 10:00-9:00 Sundayi:OO-S:OO
I '----------------------------------------~ I •••••••••••••••••••••••• 
FLORAL CO. INC. 
MARY B. GREEN MICHAEL BAUER 
\\~ aMd GqQ belt td! ~" 
327LINCOLNWAYWEST 
FREE DELIVERY! 
• COME IN AND BROWSE 
IZI 

Open Dally 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM Sundays 9:00 AM to 12:00 Noon 
SERVING NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S SERVING SOUTH BEND, MISHAWAKA & GRANGER OVER 60 YEARS 

~~~~~w~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

A Gift of the Merriest Music Ever ~ for r Mom. Dad and Other Important People I 
~ ~ ~ ~I 
8T. PAT'~ DAy AT NOTQE DAME -LIVE~ ~ An Audiocassette of Irish &lngs and Music ~ 
zw~ 
1,----------------------------------------, 
II ESTEE LAUDER I I I 
II invites you to bring this II 1 coupon to our counter for 1 I a deluxe sample with I 1I any Estee Lauder purchase 1I 
Cards
I I 
Children's Corntr Colkctibles
I I 
David Winltr Collages /twtlry
1 Hudson's 1 
Mtn's Gifts Piclurt (ramts 
1 University Park Mall 1 
Tom Clark's Gnomes Wind Chimes 
· Yttlr-flround Christmas
1 Grape Road, Mishawaka 1
1 211-s1a2 1 
BAKER'S BIKE SHOP INC. 
~iBUj~1:1:1 
BICYCLES •EXERCISERS ..BMX HEAVQUARTERS SALES -SERVICE -Pf'<RTS-ACCESSORIES 
... 
WINTER STORAGE CLOSED SUNDAY & MONDAY TUESDAY 10 AM-7 PM
AVAILABLE 

WEDNESDAY-SATURDAY 10 AM-5:30 P 
ROSELAND MISHAWAKA 
-

~?.?,;,~!~~ 252;.1§.62 
-j 

--..Hllrlr--\4-+-==-1 
Brass  
Crystal  
!Hcortltiw Acuuories  
D«oys  
Dotu  
Koltido=pa  
MuskBoxa  
Prints cl UthOirtlf'lu  CRABTREE & EVELYN  
PG(ICTWei1htsSJJit: Flown SWGroYslt:l Crysio/  L<llrllt1N SQops• LotiotU SMmpoo~ • PotpourriGourmtt Foods cl Condi<S  

Special Advertising Section to The Observer 

' ' I 

AMERICAN TOURISTER #23 Lighthouse Place 505 N. Wabash Street Michigan City, IN 46360 219-879-6724/6538 
EJ 

~ fuctotyOutlet 
Mon.-Sat. 10 to 8 Sun.lO to 5 


One mile north of US 20 on Fir Road 55345 Fir R~d. Mi,hawaka, IN 46545 • (219) 2!19-1188 
Hours  1631 E. Edison St.  
10 to 9 daily 11 to 7 Sunday Ph. 277-8338  At the corner of Edison & St. Rd. 23 Just off N.D. camp  
Guaranteed  

Lowest CD Prices 
SHOW us LOWER ........ WE'LL BEAT IT! I 
CMI Campus Marketing, Inc. 
presents Notre Dame•s 2nd Annual Beach Party 
at 

DAYTONA BEACH 
$239 complete CMI TOUR INCLUDES: 
eRound trip transportation on beautiful, modern highway coaches 
eEight Florida days/seven endless nights at one of our exciting oceanfront hotels, located right on the Daytona Beach strip. Your hotel has a beautiful pool, sun deck, air conditioned rooms, color TV and a nice long stretch of beach. 
eA full schedule of FREE pool deck parties every day. 
eA full list of pre-arranged discounts to save you money in Daytona Beach. 
eTravel representatives to ensure a smooth trip and a good time. 
eoptional side excursions to Disney World, Epcot, deep sea fishing, party cruises, etc. 
eAII taxes and tips. 

Last year over 160 ND/SMC students went with us 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION 
AND SIGN UP  
Call Jeff or Ken x1874  ~~  
Shane x 1195 Jennifer 284-4407  El CIC  CJWIBEII :.=.-: ................  

GREAT 
CD'S SLASHED
IELEcnON 
·ROCK ·POP 
Thousands Priced 
·ALTERNATIVE 
$8.99-$10.99
•JAZZ ·BLUES ·NEW AGE -GOUNTRY 
AUDIO TAPEVIDEO TAPE 

TDK HS TIZO 
Maxwell XLIIS 100 5 Pack 
4 pack $18.99 save $3.00 
$11.99 save $2.00 

2.00 

1.00 
off off 

ALL CDS 
ALL CASSETTES Excludes sale items 
Excludes sale items Expires 1-31-89 
Expires 1-31-89 



10% discount with this ad until Dec. 24 ... Chico's of University Park Mall 
The return of the SHARKS Showtime: 9:30pm 
Center Street Blues Cafe 100 Center, Mish. IN 256-0710 
STUDENTS SAVE 
10% 

AND LOTS OF TIME­
Buy several parkas in one, via 

Let us pack and ship your
the Columbia InterchangeTM 

belongings back home for the
System. Represented here by 

our infamous Wbirlibird summer, or to wherever your 
ParkaTM •Bergund­new career leads you! tal™ Cloth outer­
shell• Zip-out NOTHING IS TOO LARGE OR TOO SMALL! down reversible liner •Radial Sleeve™ • Ad­
==BDXESP.ll/5.==
justable cuffs 

•
Three exterior SHIFPlNG + PACKNG + CRl\TING zip-dose pockets 

•
Front storm flap 



MOVING & SWHAGE BOXES I GIFT WRAPPING SERVICE 
·Contrasting phemo 

PACKING MATERIALS I GIFT BOXES & BAGS 
colors 

MAILING TUBES I OFFICE SUPPLIES 
PLEASE PRESENT THIS COUPON AT THE TIME OF
+92!~!~ 

PURCHASE OR SHIPPING 
~ HolidayHours -M-F 9:00-9:00 
3602 GRAPE ROAD • Sat. 10:00-9:00
277 5555 
MISHAWAKA, IN 46545 • · . · · Between T.J. Maxx and Sun. 12:00-6:00 (219) 259-1000 
HAMMES Notre Dame Bookstore 
Large Selection of Sale Books 
Free Gift Wrapping with Purchase 
IDEAL 
Starting Dec. 6th through Dec. 23rd
GIFTS 



LASAGNA DINNER 
with cheesy garlic bread 
$3.99 

Call for Free Campus Delivery 
Choose from a variety of 
18109 State Road 23 
our "INTERNATIONAL SUBS" 
277-3324
Ask about our 
6 Foot Party Sub 
The Fondue Parlor 

Enjoy Fondue Tue. -Thur. and receive 10% off any dinner for two. 
Seating hours: Tue. -Thur. 5-9 Fri. & Sat. 5 -10 
100 Center, Mishawaka 255-1526 Reservations Suggested 
...............................................
•
' . DESTINATIONS UNLIMITED •
•
•
• 
"EMERGENCY"
"Where Service Is Unlimited'~ ~ Join Us At The ~ • 
DANCE CLINIC 
"DOCTOR UP THOSE DANCE STEPS" REVIEW THE BASICS ENJOY THIS SEASON'S FORMALS MORE 
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6 
:.ORANGE BOWL.. 
TONITE • • ROCKNE ROOM 301 • • 7:30PM 
December 29th-January 2nd :
• TAUGHT BY THE "DOCTOR OF DANCE": LORETTA SPENCER
STARTING AT 8699 :•
• NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S STUDENTS INVITED • NO CHARGE
•
• BRING A DATE, COME WITH FRIENDS OR BY YOURSELF Package Includes: : 
• 
Nonstop air from South Bend • uame tickeu : 

• 
Transfers, ux and gratuity t Dduxe hotel accommodations :


..
! *PARTY CRUISE to and from the game! * ! ! Call DESTINATIONS Ul'LIMITED At ! 
HAPPY HOLIDAYS
: 234-9099 l-800-373-2918 :
, . .. 
FROM•.. 

··~············································· 
·.. WED -Cross the Border 9-2 THURS-CLUB Cup Nite!! 
Carnations $7.95 dozen •,: 9-2 Roses $15.95 dozen 
* * * Friday Lunch Noon -2 * * * 
Mistletoe Available 
·,: FRI -Long Island Express ... 9-2 
.. SAT-Premiere of 
Alway• Florlsl Quality Delivery Avallable :.. 9-2 
.. 

9:30 2128 South Bend Avenue Show State Road 23 272-0902 








MARIGOLD MARKET
.. 
-~ -~ -

MON.-FR'LI0AM -7P.M.•S..T.10AM -bPM 






Fresh Flowers 
Blooming&. 

A division oi Green Plants Michael Angelo Gifts Bemacchi Corp. 
Balloons 

Order Your Holiday Dance Flowers Here! 
10°/o Discount with Student ID 
• 
%56-7%77ALLMAJOR CREDIT CARDS ACCEPTED 
~--· 

703 West Edison Rd., Mishawaka (I block West ol Grape Rd.) Hours: Mon. -Fri. 9 to 6, Sat. 9 to 5 
WE DELWBR DAILY 
···········~····~·-·&
22-POINT SAFETYI SERVICE INSPECTION 
+ WYNN'S POWER FLUSH 
Get Ready For Fall And Winter
$4995 
For Both Services 
-~IF). 

KILfii.EA 
II 
OLDS • NISSAN
}v./1 .~2102 Llncolnway West, Mishawaka IN 46544 
(219) 255-9644 
~~•&•••&•a•a•&~~t&t& 
The Killilea Commitment .•• Satisfaction Guaranteed. 
Keep that great GM feeling wtth genuine GM parts. 
..-·­
******************* 

.. 


.---------------------~--------------------~
And now, you can buy the
Thoways to d:romte 
Notre Dame SPORTSWATCH, as Adworks presents...
~~wristfor Clnistrms. 
4·Day SALE 
5:00-6:30om 

The Main Laundromat 
1518 North Main Street 
Mishawaka 
259-6322 
Hours: 7:30a.m.-9:00p.m. -7 days a week 
WASHER.§ ONlY 85¢ 
Tuesday: FREE Tide in every wash Wednesday: Drop-off -40¢ per pound Thursday: Tanning -$3.00 per session 
Pick-up, wash. dry, fold. deliver 
SAME DAY SERVICE 
LIGHTHOUSE, MALL TRIP 

NO TillE FOR ~ 3D-7U% CHRI8TIIAr SHOPPING ~ OFF RfGUlAJI AFTER ANALB? ~DEI>'l' UNIOI< BGWl RETAIL PRICES 
TICKETS: $5,
DECEMBER 
ON SALE NOW
9, 1989 

AT LAFORTUNE Ballna N.D. (IIi Cftll) 18:08 f INFORMATION RIRII5:3D DESK 

53 STORES INCLUDING: 
*ANNE KLEIN OUTLET *VAN HBJSON FACTORY OUTLET *BASS SHOE OUllET *POLO-RALPH LAUREN OUTLET *BENffiON *J.H. COLLECTIBLES FACTORY OUllET *LEATHER MANOR *JONATHON LOGAN FACTURY OUTLET 
Buy your roommate a TAN ;-.. :-v for Christmas!! 
~-;{;; FREE TANNING 
with every Purchase! 
FOR A VERY UMITED nME! 
(WITH THIS AD) 
FOR DEYAILS •.• 
stop in to see our salon, or call us at ... 
Un1versity Commons, St. Rd. 2:3. South Bend, ln. 
----~----·~~~~-~-··----­

Su·bscribe to The Observer 
Make checks payable to: Only 
The Observer $25 a semester 
P.O. Box Q or 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 $40 a year 
p~#~#~~~~~~~~~ 
if R06E 6PECIAL :U 
f; Suzanne 's :J{ora{ ~ 
ii moved two buildings east of old location }j 
14: 18029 State Rd. 23 ;U b Near Ironwood jjt Delivery 277-2870 ·*1 
~ 10% discounl lo sludenls and slaff 
j 

~~~~~.~~~~~~~ 
.---~----------------------~
St. Nick's Bazaar 
St. Mary's College, Le Mans Hall Open daily this week, 10-5 
• wood crafts ·decorated baskets •wreaths 
Come to booth #17 and receive 10% discount with this ad. 
~ ~ ~~~~... .......
~lllllllil~liii~illlllili~~~-------­


Myers Portage Laundromat 
next to Domino's Pizza 

FREE WASH after 10 washes STUDENT DISCOUNT on drop off good Monday thru Thursday 
1I -----------------------­
FREE WASH COUPON 
Myers Portage Laundromat
1

1 828-830 Portage Ave. 
I South Bend, IN 46616 I 
1 Good for one free top load wash, Mon-Thurs, I I Limit one oer customer. Expires 1214189 .II 
·-----------------------­
1 
I
1 I : 

For the low ,low price of 
. 26.95! 

We accept CASH or CHECK for this great Christmas gift! The Notre Dame SPORTSWATCH Made by the manufacturers of SWATCH 
Christmas Comes Early with Zenith Data Systems 
New Low Pricing and Student Loans Now Available 
Tackle Tough Assignments With Zenith's Z-286 
LP/8 Package -The 286 Desktop That's Big On 
Power ... But Small On Size! 
• 
High-speed 286/8 power in a compact, low-profile design 

• 
A dramatically smaller footprint to free up desk space 

• 
Compatible with 1OOO's of industry standard peripherals 

• 
Provides both MS-DOS® and MS OS/2® capabilities 

• 
Single 3.5"1.44MB floppy drive with 20MB Harddisk 


"Zero wait state" performance for faster processing 
e 1MB RAM-expandable to 6MB without using an expansion slot 
e Includes MS-DOS and Zenith's ZMM-149 Monochrome Monitor 
Color monitor packages also available 
Ideal for heavy-duty word processing, spreadsheets and 
databases... without crowding your desk space! SPECIAL NOTRE DAME STUDENT EDUCATION PRICE: (Includes Windows, Word Perfect) 

Let Today's Leader In Battery-Powered Portables Lighten The Classload Anywhere On Campus With Zenith's SupersPortrM! 
• 
Great for on-the-spot classnotes, heavy-duty wordprocessing, spreadsheets, library research and morel 

• 
Versatile desktop power in a lightweight portable PC 

• 
Single 3.5" 720K floppy drive with 20MB hard disk 

• 
Standard 640K RAM-expandable to 1.64MB with EMS 


• Intelligent Power Management SystemrM for maximum battery life 
• A backlit Supertwist LCD screen for crisp text and dazzling graphics 
• MS-DOS® to run virtually all IBM PC/XT® software For More Details Contact Notre Dame Computer Store • Detachable NiCad battery with AC adapter/recharger Office of University Computing 
Math/Computer Building • Zenith Laptops give you the power of a desktop anywhere you want it
239-7477 
Monday -Friday: 9am-5pm SPECIAL NOTRE DAME STUDENT EDUCATION PRICE: 
(Includes Wordperfect) 


GET READY FOR THE TOUGH SEMESTERS AHEAD-APPLY FOR ZENITH LOANWARE AND GET THE PC YOU'VE ALWAYS WANTED! 




Accent 
page 9 

The Raul Gonzales Show 
St. Ed's president takes center stage at Hall Council 
Letters to Santa and other holiday traditions 

St. Ed's residents crowd the back stairwell at the latest show. 
BILL ROSEMANN 
accent writer 

Confetti, blood, snow, and underwear. What was this? The aftermath of a failed military coup? Actually, strewn across the floor were the remnants of the laughs, the tears, and the love shared at the latest St. Ed's Hall Council. 
"The Raul Gonzales Show," so named after its host and hall president, has successfully re­placed the boring, if not sti­fling, bog that hall councils across the campus are cur­rently trapped in. St. Ed's ses­sions do not simply inform the hall's residents of upcoming events, nay, they stimulate the soul and cry out to all to be swept up in their explosion of effulgence. Gonzales, whose wit rivals David Letterman's, enter­tains as he enlightens. 
The latest show took place in the dorm's back stairwell (with special guests the Vending Machines). The acoustics ma­jestically complemented the musical wizardry of Kevin and Jay, the Brothers Millar. Kevin and Jay's mastery of the guitar and synthesizer, respectively, overpowered the audience in a cathartic tour de force. The show opened with a rousing rendition of the "Scale Song," performed by the inhabitants of the hall, which brought bitter­sweet memories of the "Sound of Music" flooding back. 
Accompanied by a shower of confetti and thunderous ap­plause, the vivacious host leapt upon the stage and called each commissioner up to present his report. Introduced by their in­dividual theme songs, the offi­cers shared helpful tips and humorous anecdotes. Fred Sowar. liturgical commissioner, 
Dear Santa, 
My Christmas list this year is as long as ever, but one item in particular I would very much lik1~ to have. It seems a little funny to ask for it, since we gave it away a year ago. But I know that it means a lot to many of us here. 
IAN MITCHELL 
Lion Taming 
1-<'or Christmas this year, I'd like a sweater. Not just any sweater, though ... I want George Gipp's letterman swea.tnr back. 
A year ago, we gave it away to a pmsidPnt who had served night years and was leaving of­fice. You seP. he playPd the part of "the Gippnr" in a movie a long time ago, and when our football team was invited to tlw White I louse to celebrate a na­tional championship, we gave it to him as a gesture of appreci­ation. 
I can't ask him for it back 'cause that would be rude. But, Santa. I am asking you for it. The sweater represents more than just a Hollywood legend. It is a piece of Notre Dame his­tory, and it belongs here. 
Oh, and Santa, while I'm at it, I think a national championship might look nice under the tree, too ... 
* * * 

Letters to Santa, snowstorms, finals, and the stores beginning to put up the Valentine's Day decorations for 1993 (they're starting to rush the holidays a bit too much, in my opinion) ­all these are indications that it must be December and Christmas are just a few weeks away. 
Christmas is really kind of an odd holiday -we celebrate the birth of Christ by going out to '\ some parking lot and paying huge sums of money for a dead bush which we take home and stick in the living room. lOr perhaps your family has a real­istic plastic simulation of a dead bush.) Then, after placing various breakable objects on its highly-flammable branches, we put strings of ancient lights on the tree, gathnr 'round, and place bets on how many years we can eontinue to do this until we have a major electrical fire which destroys all that we own in a fiery holocaust. 
The weirdest part of this hol­iday (except, perhaps, eggnog -the mysterious beverage that everyone drinks, but no one seems to know what it is) must be Santa Claus. There is, quite literally, a national conspiracy in which we lie about the exis­tence of a fat man who flies through the air in a sleigh drawn by magic reindeer; one of which has a nose that glows. It's really pretty elaborate ­on Christmas Eve, the local news gives forecasts for Santa's sleigh, and we put out cookies and milk for him. 
Then, at about six years old, the news leaks out that Santa is a myth. I'm beginning to won­der if some other things we are told don't operate on the same principle. Before you dismiss this as paranoid speculation, think back to the last time you, with a straight face, looked into the innocent, trusting eyes of a child and fibbed about Kris Kringle. Maybe as we reach other ages, we find out that other things aren't true either. Perhaps, at the age of 25, we Jearn that Bolivia doesn't exist (Think about it -have you ac­tually seen Bolivia or just heard about it?), at 40, we find out that thll rutabaga is a media creation, and at 60, that everyone was "just foolin "' about Elvis. Well, maybe not. 
In my family, the Christmas tree usually doesn't go up until ished tree and exclaims, "That's Christmas Eve. It's not so the prettiest tree you've ever much that we have a reason for had." And somehow, after she this, it's just that we're that says it, it's always true. So disorganized. With carols Merry Christmas, everyone ­playing on the stereo, the whole may your tree this year be the family decorates the tree. And prettiest you've ever had. every year, without fail, my A copy of this column is being grandmother looks at the fin-sent to Ronald Reagan. 

spun the tale of how Jesus taught the apostles how to shotgun Mountain Dew in order to receive the necessary caffeine to stay awake on Mount Gethsemane. Special events co­ordinat{)f, Brian O'Fallon, re­vealed to all the trick of carry­ing an issue of "Barbie" magazine while attempting to purchase alcohol as it casts the illusion that he is toting it for his child. 
Next, an unlucky fellow who had not given blood at the dorm's blood drive was called forth to learn the error of his ways. In a mesmerizing slight of hand that put Doug Henning to shame, Gonzales slit the stu­dent's wrist and spilt his crim­son fluid of life, much to the au{lience's horror. 
As various undergarments wafted down from the spiral stairway and a beach ball was batted around, the esteemed guests for the evening were in­troduced as "Students Who are Also Children of Famous People." Kelly Hanratty (daughter of Terry Hanratty, former ND and Pittsburgh Steeler QB), Jennifer Phelps and Liz Holtz (need you ask?), Suzanne Criqui (daughter of ABC sport announcer Don Criqui), and Susan Butkus (daughter of Dick Butkus) were brought out to be interrogated. 
When it was uncovered that Susan's father wasn't the Dick Butkus, but a corporate lawyer from Chicago, she was swiftly ousted from the set. The girls were asked to tell the crowd "some dirt" about their famous fathers. The audience learned that Lou Holtz once put on a tuxedo and jokingly told Liz's date that he was coming with them to their prom. (The gag backfired when the date said that would be really cool.) 
It was spilled that Terry Hanratty's golf cart lies at the bottom of St. Mary's Lake, and Don Criqui is nocturnal. (In re­sponse, someone asked if he shows a reflection -Don Criqui: Undead Sportscaster of the Night?) The show closed, the crowd clasping hands and singing "Kumbayah." (Actually, it didn't, but gosh darn, it should have.) 
"This type of show works re­ally well for our dorm because we're so small," explained Raul. "I thought we should get things done and have some fun, too." 
Past meetings, chock full of such fun, have included such guests as the ND cheerleaders and leprechaun (challenged and defeated by Raul in a push-up contest), Chuck Freeby (Channel 16 sports anchor) who showed bloopers, and football players Chris Zorich and Tim Grunhard who partic­ipated in a weightlifting war using hall member Marty Heirty as a human dumbbell. 
"Father really supports us and likes the hall spirit we show," beamed the effervescent host. 
Rector Gene Gorski even went so far as to join the band (which in the past has included a drum and saxophone) in a breathtaking air-guitar solo in a spectacular version of "Whole Lotta Love." 
All are welcome to participate every other Wednesday at 11 p.m., and it is rumored all stops will be pulled out for the Christmas extravaganza on Dec. 13. Next time you want some real late-night entertain­ment, please, don't watch Arsenio, come to St. Ed's, and discover how fun a hall council meeting can really be. 

page 10 The Observer 
Pirates tip Wake Forest; lllini win 
GHEENSBOHO, N.C. (AI') -OlivPr Taylor scored 23 points, including six in ovprtimP, as Seton I tall fought off previously unbeaten Wake Forest for a 76-7 4 victory in tlw third game of the ACC-Big East Challenge on Tuesday night. 
Aftt~r Sam Ivy seored tlw first basket of overtime to break the 61-61 tiP, Seton llall went on an Pight-point run. Jim Dickinson seon~d four of tlw points and Taylor finished the run at 2:09 for a 69-63 lead. 
Terry Dt•lwrn's free throw with 46 seronds left opPnPd up a 72-64 lead for the Pirates. but tlw lkrnon Deacons put on a final ehargt~. 
Antonio Johnson's 3-pointer with 26 sPconds n~maining pulled Wake Fon~st to 74-72 with 26 seconds lnft. Wake Forl'st was forced to foul and Dnlwn' made both ends of the one-and-orw, sealing thl' vic-
Michigan State's Snow wins Butkus Award 
OHI.ANDO, Fla. (AP) Michigan State's Percy Snow, who patternr.d himself after his boyhood idols, Tunsday was nanwd thr. top linnbackr.r in eollege football and winm~r of the Diek Butkus award. 
Snow. a 6-foot-2. 235-pound snnior who made 163 tacklr.s this season. grew up just 10 minutr.s from the Pro Football Hall or Fame in Canton, Ohio. and said hr. had always lookr.d up to NFI. defensive stars .Jack l.ambPrt, Mean Joe Greene and Hutkus. 
tory.. 

David Carlyle's follow-shot at the buzzer accounted for the fi­nal margin. 
Dehere scored 21 points and Volcy 13 for Seton Hall (3-0). TuekPr scored 24 points, 18 in the second half for Wake Forest (3-1). lvu had 15 and Hobert Siler 11. 
Ok St. 93, Tigers 66 
Byron llouston scored 24 points and Hoyee Jefl'ries addPd 20 TLwsday night as Oklahoma State turned a second-half blitz into a 93-66 rout of No. 16 MPmphis StatP. 
ThP Cowboys (3-1 I scored 10 straight points narly in the sec­ond half to take a 58-45 lead. Oklahoma State then went on a 22-10 run. with the final fiw points eoming from Houston on a three-point play and two free throws on a technical when Ben Spiva punched the ball to the 
"They werr. my idols, my boy­hood heroes, and I always wanted to be like them." Snow told reporters over a telephone hookup with the Downtown Athletic Club of Orlando, which 
makes  the  annual  Butkus  
award.  
Snow  was  picked by a  13­ 

member panel over Keith McCants of Alabama. James Francis of Baylor, Ron Cox of Fresno State and Andre Collins of Penn State. The Michigan State senior collected 27 votes, based on a 3-2-1 svstem, to 21 floor. 
The Tigers (3-1). who had chipped away at double-digit leads in the first half. had too many turnovers and missed shots to get anything going 
after that. Ernest Smith led Memphis State with 21 points. 
Houston, who had I:~ points in the first half, scored six dur­ing a 14-1 run as the Cowboys took a 17-5 lead. Oklahoma State led 20-9 before the Tig1~rs scored the next eight. They kept within range until the Cowboys' zone tightened and the TigPrs' scoring dried up. 
Illini 7 4, Gators 69 
Junior Mareus LibPrty seored 21 points and Kendall Gill added 19 as seventh-rankr.d Illinois bnat #25 Florida 7 4-69. Dwayne Schintzius led the Gators with 19 points. 
for McCants. Both Snow and 
McCants received four f'irst­
plaee votes. 

Michigan State Coach George Perles said Snow's selection "should come as no surprise to anyone.... lie's a good student, a good citizen, and should be the first defensive player se­lected in the (pro) draft." 
His coach compared Snow fa­vorably with the best NFL linebaekers. 
Rival Coach Bo Schemberhlcr of Michigan said about Snow, "I haven't seen any better." 
AP Photo 
Michael Jordan (23), shown here driving on Indianapolis's LaSalle Thompson, scored 35 points and had a career-high 17 rebounds as Chicago defeated Denver 119-99. Elsewhere in the NBA, Portland blazed past Miami 113-107, New York nixed the Sixers 110-103, the Jazz hammered the Cavs 94-80, and the Celtics stung the Hornets, 114-1 01 . 
The Observer accepts classifieds every busmess day from t 0 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at lht Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds IS 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds 
NOTICES 

EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER. 233·7009. 
WORDPROCESSING 272-8827 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TEXTBOOKS BOUGHT AND SOLD 
PANDORA'S BOOKS CORNER OF N.D. AVE. AND HOWARD 
233·2342 LOTS OF PAPERBACKS IN STOCK! 
TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 277-7406 
NEEDED: Ride to Milwaukee Fri. Dec. 8. Call Paula 284-4452. 
Typing of term papers or any other typing Contact Joanne 287-6005 
LOST/FOUND 
HELP Ill Lost one brown leather 
bomber jacket Saturday night at 
theWorm!l 
In the pockets were my I.D.'s, 
glasses. and a Kodak camera! 
Please call if you have any 
information concerning this coat!I 
Call: Tina @284·5199 

LOST: I LOST SOMETHING AT THE ST. MARY'S JUNIOR FORMAL AND IT'S NOT WHAT YOU'RE PROBABLY THINKING­IT WAS MY BLACK OVERCOAT. If you accidentally took home with you please call me. Has large label "1 00% Cashmiere" inside. $50+ reward. Please call T. J. CLARK 283·1738 
FOUND: VtVITAR CAMERA 
S.E. corner of Badin on sidewalk. Sat. nigh\ Call x3466 to describe and claim. 
LOST : Navy I cream down coat at NO Ave. Apts. If found, please call Whitney@ x-2744. Thanks. 

FOUND Single room key on a gold square key chain with a 0 on it. Found Friday nile in 0-2. Call x3890 to claim. 
FOUND: GORGEOUS DOLL NAMED RENEE IN LAFORTUNE. PLEASE CALL ME TO CLAIM THIS OBVIOUSLY SENTIMENTAL PERSON. -K 
LOST: BLACK TOILETRY BAG 
WITH MY CONTACTS. CALL 
DOUG#2341. 
WANTED 
ATTENTION: EARN MONEY READING BOOKS! $32,000/YEAR INCOME POTENTIAL. DETAILS. (1) 602·838-8885 EXT. BK 6262. 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo. Summer,yr.round,AII Countries, All fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del Mar CA 92625. 
ATTENTION-HIRING! 
GOVERNMENT JOBS-YOUR 
AREA. $17,840-$69,485. CALL 1· 
602-838·8885. EXT R 6262. 
DIRECT SALES PROS NEEDED for leading water treatment company.Paid training, salary and/or straight commission. We offer complete corporate benefits. insurance. paid vacation, etc. 2 sales per week earns $60K, 1st year income. For interview or more information on the 2nd fastest growing business in the world, call Paul Hoogerheide at (616)684· 7033 or call Rob Schwartz at (616)372-2220. 
FOR RENT 
NEAR N.D. Clean. comfortable. 
and furnished apartments: 
• 755 South Bend Ave. efficiency­$225, 1 bedroom·$265. • 607 1/2 E. Corby, 1 bedroom· $295. 
Deposit. references . 61 6·483-9572. 
4 BR, N.D. AVE .. furnished house 
for rent beginning AUG. 
'90. GRAD STUDENTS OR SRS. 
RESERVE NOW! 259-7801 days 
or 255-5852 eveningslwknds. 

MALE/FEMALE HOUSEMATE NEEDED FOR NEXT SEMESTER. OWN BEDROOM, CLOSE TO CAMPUS, HOUSE IN GREAT CONDITION. 120/MO. +UTIL. PLEASE CALL 289-462t. 
CLEAN 3-BDRM HOUSE, 2 BLKS. FROM NO. $475/MO. 232-3972. 
Nice furnished homes for next 
school year. Close to NO. 277­
3097. 
ROOMMATE WANTED· Female 
(24) seeks non· smoker to share apartment near NO. Will move in with you or find place together. Colleen 3503. 
FOR SALE 

RED 4-DOOR 1980 HONDA 
ACCORD. CALL 3619. 
'86 HONDA ACCORD, 4 DOOR, 
AIC, AM/FM STEREO TAPE, 
STICK, 1 OWNER, TOP 
CONDITION. $6300. 277·2560. 
'78 TOYOTA COROLLA $1800. 
287-2062. 
One way air ticket, Jan. 16, 
San FranCiscO--> Chicago 
or Chicago-> Boltimore 
very cheap!! Call 287 ·4925. 
100% PURE ALPACA WOOL 
SWEATERS FOR SALE 
ALL SIZES 
GREAT GIFT FOR XMAS 
CALL 287·3162 AFTER ?PM 
PERSONALS 

ORANGE BOWL FLIGHTS 
CALL 1-800-?DOMERS 

Chicago -$295 
Cincinnati -$245 
Cleveland · $31 1 
Dallas · $320 
Denver-$351 
Detroit -$280 Louisville -$245 Philadelphia . $270 New Orleans · $200 LaGuardia· $310 Boston · $328 Pittsburgh · $320 Los Angeles -$440 
CALL 1·800-?DOMERS MOST FLIGHTS 12/29 AND 1/3. SEATS ARE LIMITED. 
HIAG! · 
ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: POOR CLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY RD., 300 W., KOKOMO, IN 46901. 
ADOPTION -Well-educated couple eager to adopt a baby. Cheerful home full of books. Flexible on sharing information with birthmother about child. Our adoption agency can provide counseling and references. Please call collect 309·827·3135 eves/wknds for profile/photo. James and Hollis. 
SPRING BREAK Guaranteed Lowest Prices! Get Early Bird Savings.Third year running to Cancun, Rio. Bermuda and the Bahamas Call Doug at: 283·1818 
Get your shopping done now... 
before its too late! 
Take a trip to Chicago on the 
WINDY CITY SHUTTLE. 
Tickets $1 a-available at the 
LaFortune Information Desk. 
In response to the Fightin' of room 814 who criticized me for not putting in personals: 
You will all pay-Queen -RJ 
and her two princesses, CP and 
KC--when I get you on the dance 
floor at the PE Formal! 
p.s. I don't care how good your bedtime stories are RJ-you may get CP and JB into bed with you. but you'll never get me !I! 
Love your pal. the 
Hello Sunshine and Mary! 
Uh·hi-ya! Don't starve each other 
to death and by all means don't 
walk out of step! 

Be good and if you can't be good 
be careful, 
love ya, 
Molly 

I NEED AN ENGLISH TUTOR ­
INTERMEDIATE AND ADVANCE 
PEDRO# 283-3952 
ICEBERG DEBATES 
Deadline to turn in 

applications to Hall 
Presidents is Dec. 1 0 
Get involved now! 

ICEBERG DEBATES Roll TIDE, Roll!!! 
Roll TIDE. Roll!!! 
Roll TIDE, Roll!!! 
Roll TIDE, Rolllll 
RENEE·todomarimas' atsui KF 
THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune 
MON-THUR 7:30AM to 11 PM 
FRI 7:30AM to 11 PM 
SAT noon to 6PM 
SUN noon to 11 PM 
6¢ Copies-Printing-Binding 
···SECRET SANTAs··· Buy your roommate. friend or sweetie a holiday bag of goodies for $1. Sold-Dining halls Dec 5,6,7. Delivered Dec. 8th. Support BP and El Campito and help put a smile on a child's face this Christmas!!! 
Going toward Dayton, Springfield, Cincinnati or Columbus Friday Dec. 8? We REALLY need a ride !I! Leave Dec. 8, return Dec. 10. Call Gia at 5271 or Kathy at 5264 at SMC 
ARE YOU READY FOR ... 
ANTOSTAL 
THE WEEK MAY NOT BE HERE, BUT PREPARATIONS ARE BEGINNING NOW AND WE NEED LOGOS FOR THE BOOKLET AND TEE SHIRTS. HAVE YOUR ART· WORK DISPLAYED ALL OVER CAMPUS AND WIN CASH PRIZES. DROP OFF ENTRIES IN THE S.U.B OFFICE BY WED. DEC. 13. 
ADOPTION Doctor & artist, happily married, warm, seek white newborn to love and cherish. Legal. confidential. Please call Hanna & Mark collect (212) 864­5512 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY PEEEJ! 
JUNIORS! JUNIORS! Sign up for the class SKI TRIP to Schuss Mt. (Feb. 2-4) this week in the class office. Any questions-call Karen X4541. 
HeyFLYBOY........ 
What does U2's "Desire" 
do for you? Good luck this 
week -Spiderlady Top ten quotes from D.C. reunion: 
10. Hamilton!!Savage 9. "The Roman Candle" -good for only 5 shots 8. She got a new coat! 7. You have to have it in a fun glass. 5. Did someone say "Who"? 4. You have to dial 283 first. 3. They SAID they were coming tonight. 2. What actually happened in 1985, I'm still not sure. 1. "To Jon!" Thanks for having us. 
Get your Christmas Shopping done early ... ride the Windy City Shuttle to Chicago. Tickets available for $10.00 at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
PARROTHEADS FOREVER!!! PARROTHEADS FOREVER!!! 
Celebrate Christmas With The Grinch, Heat Miser. and Dillon! 
-Friday and Saturday­
7:00 Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer 
7:50 A Year Without A Santa Claus 
8:40 Frosty the Snowman 
9:05 Charlie Brown Christmas 
9:30 Life & Adventures of Santa Claus 
10:20 How the Grinch Stole Christmas 
10:45 'Twas the Night Before Christmas 
-Friday· 11 :30 Scrooged 
-Saturday· 

11 :30 It's a Wonderful Life 
They're FREE and Christmas wouldn't be the same without them! In Dillon's Party Room. 
8 Orange Bowl tickets for sale -all seats together. Excellent seats! Row 28 between 1 5 and 20 yard line. Call Steve between 9:30 and 4:30 Wed, Thurs. or Fri. (305) 591-9335 

,., 

Wednesday. December6.1~portS Wednesday 
page 11 

NFL STANDINGS. FOOTBALL TOP 25 SPORTS LIST AMERICAN CONFERENCE The Top Twenty Five teams in the East Associated Press college football poll, with 
w L T Pet PF PA Home Away AFC NFC Div first-place votes in parentheses, total Buffalo 8 5 0 .615 343 274 6-1-0 2-4-0 7-4-0 1-1-0 5-2-0 points based on 25-24-23-22-21-20-19­Miami 7 6 0 .538 263 300 3-3-0 4-3-0 5-6-0 2-0-0 3-3-0 18-17-16-15-14-13-12-11-10-9-8-7-6-5­lndnplis 6 7 0 .462 227 230 4-2-0 2-5-0 5-5-0 1-2-0 3-4-0 4-3-2-1 and last week's ranking: 
N England 5 8 0 .385 257 308 3-4-0 2-4-0 5-5-0 0-3-0 4-3-0 Ranking, team Record Pts Pvs NY Jets 4 9 0 .308 239 323 1-5-0 3-4-0 3-7-0 1-2-0 2-5-0 1. Colorado (55) 11-0-0 1.492 1 Central 2. Miami, Fla. (4) 10-1 -0 1.407 4 Houston 8 5 0 .615 318 310 5-1-0 3-4-0 6-4-0 2-1-0 3-1-0 3. Michigan (I) 10-1 -0 1,374 3 Cleveland 7 5 1 .577 270 194 4-2-1 3-3-0 5-4-1 2-1-0 2-3-0 4. Notre Dame 11 -1-0 1,323 5 Cincnnati 7 6 0 .538 305 225 4-2-0 3-4-0 5-5-0 2-1-0 4-1-0 5. Florida State 9-2-0 1,265 6 Pittsbrgh 6 7 0 .462 193 294 3-4-0 3-3-0 4-6-0 2-1-0 1-5-0 6. Nebraska 10-1-0 1,198 7 West ?.Alabama 10-1-0 1,090 2 x-Denver 10 3 0 .769 302 193 6-1-0 4-2-0 9-2-0 1-1-0 6-1-0 8. Tennessee 10-1-0 1,069 8 LA Raidrs 7 6 0 .538 265 226 6-1-0 1-5-0 6-5-0 1-1-0 3-4-0 9. Auburn 9-2-0 1,024 11 Kan. City 6 6 1 .500 257 239 5-2-0 1-4-1 5-6-1 1-0-0 3-4-0 10. Arkansas 10-1-0 983 9 Seattle 5 8 0 .385 194 264 2-4-0 3-4-0 5-5-0 0-3-0 3-4-0 11. Illinois 9-2-0 931 10 San Diego 4 9 0 .308 206 235 3-4-0 1-5-0 2-8-0 2-1-0 2-4-0 12. Southern Cal 8-2-1 831 12 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE 13. Houston 9-2-0 748 13 East 14. Clemson 9-2-0 681 14 
w L T Pet PF PA Home Away AFC NFC Div 15. Virginia 10-2-0 657 15 Phila 9 4 0 .692 271 220 4-2-0 5-2-0 3-1-0 6-3-0 5-1-0 16. Texas A&M 8-3-0 570 16 NY Giants 9 4 0 .692 285 228 5-1-0 4-3-0 2-0-0 7-4-0 5-2-0 17. W. Virginia 8-2-1 490 17 Washngtn 7 6 0 .538 300 257 3-4-0 4-2-0 0-2-0 7-4-0 4-4-0 18. Penn St. 7-3-1 466 18 Phoenix 5 8 0 .385 230 293 2-5-0 3-3-0 1-2-0 4-6-0 2-5-0 19. Brigham Young 10-2-0 378 19 Dallas 1 12 0 .077 184 338 0-7-0 1-5-0 0-2-0 1-10-0 1-5-0 20. Duke 8-3-0 330 20 Central 21. hio St. 8-3-0 298 21 Green Bay 8 5 0 .615 299 297 6-1-0 2-4-0 0-1-0 8-4-0 4-3-0 22. Michigan St. 7-4-0 271 22 Minnesota 8 5 0 .615 262 214 6-0-0 2-5-0 1-1-0 7-4-0 6-2-0 23. Hawaii 9-2-0 207 23 Chicago 6 7 0 .462 313 284 4-2-0 2-5-0 2-2-0 4-5-0 2-4-0 24. Pittsburgh 7-3-1 190 24 Tampa Bay 5 8 0 .385 274 335 2-5'0 3-3-0 0-2-0 5-6-0 3-4-0 25. Texas Tech 8-3-0 139 25 Detroit 4 9 0 .308 221 316 3-4-0 1-5-0 1-3-0 3-6-0 2-4-0 West Other teams receiving votes: Florida 21, San Fran 11 2 0 .846 365 216 4-2-0 7-0-0 3-0-0 8-2-0 4-1-0 Arizona 19. Washington 18, Oregon 7, LA Rams 9 4 0 .692 337 280 5-1-0 4-3-0 1-1-0 8-3-0 4-1-0 Fresno State 6, Georgia Tech 6, NewOrfns 6 7 0.462 293 256 3-3-0 3-4-0 2-0-0 4-7-0 3·3-0 Oklahoma 5, Air Force 3, Syracuse 2, N. Atlanta 3 10 0 .231 208 332 3-3-0 0-7-0 2-2-0 1-8-0 0-6-0 Illinois 1. 

BASKETBALL TOP 25 SCOREBOARD NFL LEADERS 
The Top Twenty Five teams in the 
Scoreboard NATIONAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE 
Associated Press college basketball poll, 
Quarterbacks Quarterbacks
Results from Nov. 29-Dec. 5 
with first-place votes in parentheses. total 
Att Com Yds TD lnt Att Com Yds TD lntpoints based on 25-24-23-22-21-20-19­Montana, S.F. 323 231 2957 22 5 Kelly, Buff. 293 172 2446 21 1118-17-16-15-14-13-12-11-10-9-8-7-6-5­Women's basketball (2-1) Everett, Rams 432 257 3617 24 15 Esiason, Gin. 332 186 2586 20 84-3-2-1 and last week's ranking: 
Tennessee 77, Notre Dame 54 Rypien, Wash. 379 218 2892 18 10 Moon, Hou. 370 225 2972 19 11 Majkowski, G.B. 497 297 3719 24 18 Kosar, Clev. 399 242 2698 14 12
Ranking . team Rec PIS. Pvs Men's basketball (1-2) 
Hebert, N.O. 353 222 2686 15 15 Marino, Mia. 438 244 3208 21 191. Syracuse (38) 4-0 1,535 1 
Louisville 84, Notre Dame 73 Simms, Giants 339 193 2582 13 14 O'Brien, Jets 421 252 3008 11 162. Kansas (17) 6-0 1,443 4 Indiana 81, Notre Dame 72 Cunningham, Phil. 426 235 2762 17 12 McMahon, S.D. 318 176 2132 10 103. Georgetown (5) 3-0 1.425 3 Miller.Atl. 402 215 2633 10 6 Brister, Pitt. 282 156 1854 7 7
4. Missouri(!) 4-0 1,325 5 
1.265 Wrestling Tomczak, Chi. 268 138 1866 16 14 DeBerg, K.C. 246 150 1954 7 13
5. UNLV 3-1 6 Hogeboom, Phoe. 290 168 2113 10 16 Elway, Den. 330 175 2465 14 16
6. 
Duke 3-0 1,246 7 Notre Dame finished 7th in the Las 

7. 
Illinois 2-0 1.139 8 Vegas Invitational; Pat Boyd 


Rushers Rushers
8. Michigan 3-1 1.080 10 
placed 2nd in the 142-pound Att Yds Avg LG TD Att Yds Avg LG TD
9.LSU 2-1 1.051 9 
10. Arkansas (2) 3-0 1,031 11 
division; Mark Gerardi was 4th in B.Sanders, Det. 213 1088 5.1 31 8 Okoye, K.C. 288 1191 4.1 59 10 
Anderson, Chi. 237 1073 4.5 59 10 Thomas. Buff. 259 1124 4.3 38 5
11 . Louisville 3-1 888 13 the 167 -pound division; Andy 
Hilliard, N.O. 268 1059 4.0 40 12 Brooks, Gin. 190 1065 5.6 65 6
12. Oklahoma 2-0 797 17 Radenbaugh finished in 6th place Craig, S.F. 220 870 4.0 27 4 Dickerson, Ind. 251 1013 4.0 21 5
13. UCLA 3-0 761 15 
687 in the 118-pound division. Bell, Rams 217 827 3.8 46 11 Humphrey, Den. 241 928 3.9 40 7
t4.1ndiiana 3-0 14 
Anderson. Giants 259 824 3.2 36 10 Stephens, N.E. 205 737 3.6 35 515. St. John's 4-1 468 20 Hockey (10-2-0) Walker, DII.-Mnn. 218 801 3.7 47 6 Jackson, Raiders 129 732 5.7 92 416. Memphis St. 4-0 460 22 
Notre Dame 5-5, Mankato State 0-Fullwood, G.B. 169 736 4.4 38 5 Hector, Jets 150 603 4.0 21 3
17. North Carolina 4-2 459 12 Riggs, Wash. 172 708 4.1 58 4 Metcalf, Clev. 170 576 3.4 43 5
18. Georgia Tech 2-0 448 21 3 
Settle, Atl. 162 624 3.9 20 2 Worley, Pitt. 148 551 3.7 38 119. No. Carolina St. 4-1 428 25 
20. Arizona 1-2 407 2 Men's swimming 
285 NHL STANDINGS
21. Alabama 4-0 Notre Dame took first place in the 22. Pittsburgh 2-1 281 18 
National Catholic Meet with 680 WALES CONFERENCE 
23. Temple 2-1 275 16 

Patrick Division Atlantic Division 
points; a strong closing
24. Oregon St. 3-0 203 
w L T Pts GF GA Home Away Div w L Pet GB 
25. Florida 1-0 180 24 performance by Jim Birmingham 
NY Rangers 14 10 4 32 99 91 8-2-4 6-8-0 4-4-1 New York 10 6 .625 
Others receiving votes: Notre Dame gave the Irish the two-point Philadelphia 13 11 3 29 98 86 7-6-1 6-5-2 7-4-2 Philadelphia 8 6 .571 1 169, LaSalle 153. Oklahoma St. 138. 
victory over second-place New Jersey 11 12 3 25 102 105 5-7-1 6-5-2 5-2-2 Boston 9 7 .563 1 
Michigan St. 117. Ark.-Little Rock 46, 
Washington 10 12 4 24 86 89 4-6-2 6-6-2 6-2-0 Washington 8 10 .444 3
Villanova
Texas 41, Texas-EI Paso 41. Clemson 38. 
Pittsburgh 10 14 2 22 101 110 7-7-0 3-7-2 4-5-1 New Jersey .4 11 .267 5 1/2Loyola-Marymount 33, James Madison Women's swimming NY Islanders 7 18 3 17 92 112 2-10-2 5-8-1 1-9·2 Miami 4 14 .222 7 
17. Houston 16, Minnesota 16. Oregon Central Division 
Adams Division 
13. UC Santa Barbara 13. Ball St. 8, Notre Dame finished third in the 
Buffalo 18 6 4 40 103 83 12-0-1 6-6-3 9-3-1 Indiana 9 4 .692 
Kansas St. 8. Rutgers 7. Xavier. Ohio 7. 
National Catholic Meet with 583 Montreal 17 11 2 36 99 81 12-4-1 5-7-1 7-5-0 Detroit 10 6 .625 1/2Old Dominion 5, E. Tennessee St. 4, 
points; the squad was led by Boston 16 8 2 34 91 67 9-2-1 7-6-1 5-5-1 Atlanta 9 6 .600 1 Hawaii 4, N. Iowa 3, DePaul 2, Florida St. 
8-5-0 Chicago 9 1
Hartford 13 14 1 27 90 92 5-9-1 5-8-0 6 .600
freshman Tanya Williams who won
2. Iowa 2. Long Beach St. 2, Tn. 
Quebec 6 20 2 14 86 129 3-10·2 3-10-0 2-7-0 Milwaukee 7 8 .467 3 
2, New Mexico 1. three races 
Orlando 7 9 .438 31/2 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Cleveland 6 9 .400 4 
Norris Division WESTERN CONFERENCE w L T Pts GF GA Home Away Div 
Midwest Division Minnesota 16 11 1 33 105 99 13-1-0 3-10-1 7-6-0 Pet
w GB

Horne games in all CAPS p.m. L 
Chicago 14 12 2 30 98 96 9-5-0 5-7-2 4-5-0 Denver 11 4 .733 
Wednesday Women's swimming vs. SAINT St. Louis 12 10 4 28 93 82 5-5-2 7-5-2 5-5-0 San Antonio 5 .643 11/2
9 5-12-0
Women's basketball at Indiana MARY'S COLLEGE Toronto 12 16 0 24 112 130 7-4-0 6-3-0 Utah 9 5 .643 11/2 Detroit 16 18 111 3-9-2 Houston 7 .563 21/2
7 4 82 4-7-2 3-6-0 9
University, 7:30 p.m. Sunday 
Smythe Division Dallas 7 7 .500 31/2
Thursday Wrestling vs. ILLINOIS STATE, 2 102 7-4-3 7-6-2 6-4-1
Edmonton 14 10 5 33 117 Minnesota 4 12 .250 71/2
No sports scheduled p.m. Calgary 12 9 8 32 126 104 8-1-4 4-8-4 4-4-1 Charlotte 3 12 .200 8 
Friday Monday Los Angeles 13 11 2 28 115 107 7-6-0 6-5-2 5-5-2 Pacific Division 
12 13 2 26 83 95 7-7-1 5-6-1 5-3-0Hockey at Ferris State, 7:30p.m. No sports scheduled Winnipeg L.A. Lakers 12 3 .800 
Vancouver 10 13 4 24 93 100 7-6-3 3-7-1 2-6-2 
Portland 13 .765
Tuesday 4
Saturday Seattle 9 7 .563 3 1/2
Women's basketball at Marquette, No sports scheduled Phoenix 6 7 .462 5
Wednesday's Games Montreal at Minnesota, 8:35 p.m.7:30p.m. Dec.13 New York Islanders at Hartford, 7:35 p.m. Toronto at Chicago, 8:35p.m. L.A. Clippers 5 9 .357 61/2 Hockey vs. FERRIS STATE, 7:30 Women's basketball vs. New Jersey at New York Rangers, 7:35p.m. Winnipeg at Calgary, 9:35 p.m. Sacramento 4 10 286 71/2 
p.m. MICHIGAN STATE, 7:30p.m. Washington at Pittsburgh, 7:35 p.m. Vancouver at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. Golden State 4 11 .267 8 
·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ww~~~w~~~~~ 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD: 
Augusta Christmas Cocktai 1 Party .. Let•s Get Jo11y.. l Thursday~ tickets $7.00 at C1 ubhousel casua 1 att i rei 2 IDs required 
this week's movie "About Last Night"-Wed. and ~h. night in Carroll Aud. $1 admission 9:00 & 11:15 
(Remember: Christmas Bazaar this week-next week .. A Miracle on 34th Street .. and Club Tuesdaylll) 
ww~ww~~~~~~~~~w~~~~wwwwwwwwwwwwwwww~~~wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww 

_j 

-~­Wednesday, December 6, 1989 page 12 The Observer 

Awards 
continued from page 16 

Who eventually will become the standout player of this year's freshman class is any­body's guess. Only llentrich got enough game opportunities to prove his worth this season. 
Most frequent question: Whether it's telephone calls from alumni (both the actual and subway variety) or queries from students, we get our share of questions about Notre Dame football while working at The Observer. In no particular order, these are the questions 
we  heard  the  most  over  the  
past few months:  
•Do  you  think  Hice  (or  

Hoeknt) has a chance at win­
ning the lleisman? 

•What 
bowl are we going to? 

• 
Will we beat Miami'? 



and that mid-October fa­vorite: 
• What real/.11 happened be­fore the USC game? 
Hest game, team: Not until the season progressed, and tw­eryone realized that Virginia actually had a darn good foot­ball team, did the 36-13 Kickoff Classic win start looking impressive. The 24-19 victory over Michigan also looks a lot better after seeing that it was the Wolverines' only loss of the year. 
But if you want the most eornplete performance by Notre 
Knight 
continued from page 16 

Bob Knight. "Then we started well in the second half. Then Notre Dame picked it up, and we had some trouble picking up their switches." 
But Indiana, which did not make a second-half substitu­tion until the last four minutes of the game, refused to fold. Cheaney scored on a dunk, drnw a foul from Tim Singleton and converted the three-point play to up the Hoosier lead to 11 points. 
Notre Dame cut the margin to seven when two Fredrick fret~ throws made the score 70­6:~. but by that point, less than two minutes remained in the ganw. 
"It's encouraging," Fredrick said of Notre Dame's second­half comeback. "but you have to takt~ into account that they were frnshmen. If we'd had that kind of intensity from the out­set, maybe it would have been a little closer." 
Notre Dame will try to re­bound at Marquette on Saturday afternoon, then re­turn home to face UCLA on Dec. 17. 

Dame this season, look no fur­ther than the 45-7 waxing of a then-unbeaten Pitt team. After a week in which the Irish went under the national media's mi­croscope, including a damning piece by Sports Illustrated, be­cause of the USC pregame tun­nel incident, Notre Dame turned in a dominating performance. The Panthers were never the same afterward, losing twice more in their next four games. 
Best game, individual: There are quite a few great perfor­mances to choose from -Tony thee's first-half clinic against Virginia, Chris Zorich silencing Jeff Pearson's "vendetta" in the Michigan State game, the of­fensive line's domination of the vaunted Penn State run de­fense. 
As splendid as those efforts were. none can match Haghib "Hocket" Ismail's game against Michigan for impact. Two kick­off returns, two touchdowns. That was enough to make up for Notre Dame's lack of of­fense in the 24-19 triumph and eventually could prove to be all that stands between Bo Schembechler and his first na­tional championship. 
Most underrated: It's get­ting a little fashionable to de­scribe fullback and tri-captain Anthony Johnson as under­rated. As worn-out as that la­bel is becoming, it still is right on the mark when it comes to this South Bend product. Irish fans may never realize Johnson's true value to the Irish until he no longer is in the backfield when Notre Dame is in a short-yardage situation next season. 
When discussing underrated Irish players, you can't over­look defensive end Scott Kowalkowski, who surpassed expectations while trying to fill the rather large shoes of Frank Starns, and defensive lineman Bob Dahl, who quietly got the job done all season long. 
Most surprising: It's been so long that it seems like ages ago when Irish coach Lou Iloltz was complaining about his lack of depth at linebacker because 1988 Butkus Award finalist Mike Stonebreaker would not be able to play this fall. 
As it turned out, two players were in at linebacker on a huge majority of downs. It wasn't a surprise to see that Ned Bolcar, a two-year captain, was contributing a lot. Irish fans had to be gratPful that Donn Grimm was able to make a similar contribution. 
In his first year as a starter, Grimm finished second on the team with 93 tackles. His pro­ductivity kept linebacker from being a sore spot for this Notre Dame team. 
Turning point: Fourth quar­ter, USC game. The top-ranked Fighting Irish see their 18­game winning streak go into 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
NVA Basketball Referees will meet at 5 p.m. today. 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 LaFortune. 
Congratulations 
IJUWiJ W!@O®fifl 
and the Notre Dame swimmers and divers WINNERS 
!M®flU®fliJ®O @®fl!Ju®OU& @!ifJ®WiJ!}JU®fliJ®!ifJUf}J® 
The Jackoboices 

WithMacintosh 
youcanevendo this: 
Madntosh~ computers have always been easy to use. But they've never been this easy to own. 
Presenting The Madntosh Sale. 
Throughjanuary31, you can save hundreds ofdollars on avariety ofApple~ Madntosh computers and peripherals. 
So now there's no reason to settle for an ordinary PC.With The 
Notre Dame Computer Store Office of University Computing Math/Computing Center 
2~7477 

serious jeopardy, falling behind the Trojans 24-21 midway through the fourth quarter. 
After moving the ball on a series of running plays, Rice hits Ismail for a 40-yard side­line pass to the USC 15-yard line. On the next play, Rice feigns past a couple of defend­ers, breaks a few tackles and lunges into the end zone for the winning score. The Irish win 28-24 and go on to breeze through their next four games. 
Notre Dame's hockey team continued its impressive season last weekend with a two-game sweep of Mankato State, im­proving the Irish record on the year to 10-2. 
But the real highlight of the weekend at the Joyce ACC came bt~tween periods of Friday night's game. During the in­termission following the second period in every Irish home game, three spectators get a chance to shoot the puck from center ice. 
In front of the goal is a largp 

Madntosh Sale, you can wind up with much more ofacomputer. Without spending alot more money. 
f.~~~· 
• 


The MacintoshSale. 
Now through January 26 
0 1989 Apple Camputer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo. and Macintosh are registered tmdemarks ofApple Computer, Inc. 
platform, with a tiny hole at the bottom. If a fan shoots the puck through the hole, he or she wins a free Northwest air­lines round-trip ticket to any­where in the continental United States. 
During Hie Schafer's 2 1/2­year tenure as Irish coach, no­body had shot the puck through the hole. At least, not until Friday. In the middle of a 5-0 Irish blowout, 11-year-old Hodney Wisser of Granger brought the crowd to life by firing the puck right into thP net. No word yet as to where Hodney is htmded with his free plane ticket. 
Lou lloltz spent Monday night its a guPst on ABC's "Nightline." In a segment de­voted to wlwther a champi­onship playoff should bP insti­tutPd in college football, lloltz spoke out in favor of tlw con­cept. Other guPsts on Monday's show induded NCAA director Dick Schultz and ESI'N com­mentator BPano Cook. 
The Accent Staff 
is looking for a few intellectually Hip people to fill the following positions: 
1. 
Copy Editor 

2. 
Assistant Accent Editor 


Call John Blasi at The Observer, 239-5303. 
New Open ... Close 
Print... 3€P Quit 3€0 





AP Photo 

Philadelphia goalie Ken Wregget stopped 39 out of 43 shots for last night, but it wasn't enough to keep the Washington Capitals from recording a 4-3 victory. Elsewhere in the NHL, Islander goalie Mark Fitzpatrick recorded his second shutout in three starts, blanking the Buffalo Sabres by a 3-0 score, the Boston Bruins and the Quebec Nordiques skated to a 3-3 tie, and the St. Louis Blues tied the Detroit Red Wino§ 2-2. 

page 14 
The Observer Wednesday, December 6, 1989 


Stars 
continued from page 16 

preseason publicity and wasn't 
seen on television because 
Houston is on probation. 
Thompson played on a losing 
football team at a school better 
known for basketball. 

But they are the top stars on 
an AP offensive team that in­dudes Outland Trophy finalist Michael Tanks of Florida State and a trio of record-setting re­ceivers -Clarkston Hines of Duke, Teranc1~ Mathis of New Mexico and Emmanw~l Hazard of Houston. 
The defense features Butkus Award winrwr Percy Snow of Michigan Stall\ Outland finalist Moe Gardner of Illinois and Lombardi Award finalists Zorich and Tim Ryan of Southern California. The Butkus honors the top linebacker in the country; the Outland and Lombardi awards are for linemen. 
.Joining Ware and Thompson in the backfield is Florida run­ning back Emmitt Smith. In ad­dition to Tanks at center. the offensive line consists of guards Eric Still of Tennessee and .Joe Garten of Colorado along with tackles Bob Kula of Michigan State and .Jim Mabry of Arkansas. The placekicker is Washington State's Jason Hanson. 
Hounding out the defense are lineman Greg Mark of Miami, linebackers Keith McCants of Alabama and James Francis of Baylor and defensive backs Mark Carrier of Southern Cal, Tripp Welborne of Michigan and LeRoy Butler of Florida State. The punter is Colorado's Tom Rowm. 
The All-America team has 12 seniors, 11 juniors and two sophomores, Ismail and Hanson. The juniors are Ware, Smith, !Iazard, Garten, Zorich, Gardner, McCants, Lyght, Welborne, Carrier and Rouen. 
T ere are no repeaters from last year's first team, although Thompson and Snow were on the second team in 1988. 
The players were selected by AP sports editor Darrell Christian, college football writer Rick Warner and re­gional AP sports writers. The team will be featured on Bob Hope's annual Christmas show, Dec. 16 from 10-11 p.m. EST on NBC. 
Ismail was a triple threat as a receiver. runner and kick re­turner, averaging 17 yards ev­ery time he touched the ball. He returned two kickoffs for touchdowns against Michigan and ran back a punt for a score against Air Force, giving him a total of five return scores in his earner. 
Zorich, who spearheaded a Notre Dame defense that gave up only 15 points a game, made a big impression on Stanford center Chuck Gillingham. "He was a good player last year and I think he's gotten 100 percent better," Gillingham said after Notre Dame beat Stanford 27­
17. "He's got arms as big as my thighs." 
Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz calls Lyght "the most talented defensive back I've ever been around." Lyght has lived up to the billing this season with eight interceptions, including two in a season-opening victory over Virginia. 
Ski the Mississippi Tour #1 -Jan. 3-5 Tour #2-Feb. 9-11 Call today! 1-264-3984 Deadline: Dec. 14 
SKI TRIP TO SCHUSS MOUNTAIN 
fEBRUARY 2-4, J990 
The cost of $170 includes: 
• 
Transportation 

• 
Room and Board 

• 
Lift Ticket 


• Skiing Lesson Payment Is Due On Dec. 13 (IN THE CLASS OFFICE) 
Frosh 
continued from page 16 

got some steals and easy 
buckets that got his confidence 
going." 

Cheaney had an impressive 
all-around game. Besides his 
scoring stats, he had three re­
bounds, one assist and one 
steal in 31 minutes of action. 
He played the entire second 
half. 

Cheaney is just one of a seven 
talented freshmen that have 
sparked Indiana early in the 
season. Against Notre Dame, 
he was joined in double figures 
by freshmen Greg Graham with 
16 and Chris Heynolds with 14. 
Hedshirt freshman Matt Novnr 
added a career-high nine points 
off the bench. 

"They've got a whole year to improve and understand and learn how to play," Indiana coach Bob Knight said. "We've had different guys play well each game." 
Cheaney came into the season as a question mark after breaking his foot and missing the second half of his senior season in high school. He aver-
You know...no studs, no leather, no hair-dye: maybe he's not a punk, maybe he's just 
COMEDIAN JIM WIGGINS 
"The Last American Hippie" 
"His problem's probably chemical" 7k~· 
Thursday, 9:30 at ;s
-NIGHTCLUB 

JUNIORS! 
• 
' 


Special to the Observer 

The Notre Dame women's basketball team will take its 2-1 record on the road tonight to face Indiana University at Assembly Hall in Bloomington at 7::30 p.m. 
The frish will look to re­bound against the Hoosiers after losing to top-ranked Tennessee 77-54 this past Sunday. They will count. on the inside strength of' sophomore center Margaret Nowlin to lead the way. 
Nowlin, who led the team with 10 points and 15 re­bounds against Tennessee, averages 14.0 points per game, and 11.3 rebounds per game. 
Joining Nowlin up front in the starting lineup will be sophomore forward Comalita llaysbert (13.3 ppg) and junior forward Krissi Davis. Juniors Sara Liebscher and Karen Robinson (14.7 ppg) will likely start in th1~ backcourt for the Irish. 
Senior forward Lisa Kuhns 
(10.0 ppg) will be counted on for support in the frontcourt off' the bench. Coqunse Washington will also sen time at point guard for the Irish. The 5-6 sparkplug from Flint. Michigan lnads Notre Dame in both steals ( 1 1) and assists (15 ). 
The Hoosiers boast wins over Houston, Valparaiso, and Butler this season, and are IPd by junior forwards Lori Meinerding, who aver­ages 19.0 points per game, and Ann Zellers (14.0 ppg, 9.:3 rpg). Indiana has split four games in its lifetime series against Notre Dame. Last year llaysbert led tiH~ Irish with 16 points in a 56­49 victory over the Jloosiers at the Joyce ACC. 
aged 22.2 points during his 16 games as a senior, but was still largely untested. 
He answered the questions early with 20 points against Miami (Ohio) in the opener, second only to Hicky Calloway's 24 as a starting freshman on opening night. 
lie followed with 18 points in the game with Kent State and then 12 versus Kentucky in the Big Four Classic. 
Cheaney scored the first hoop against tlw Irish and tlwn added six points in a 9-2 Hoosier run early in the half. lie finished the half with a team-high nine points. 
lie scored the first basket in the second stanza and added four more before his two­handed dunk that brought the 
house  down  and  signalled  
Notre  Dame's  impending de­ 
feat.  

If Chea1wy eontimws this hwel of play, his shots--or dunks-­could give Indiana many morn chances to cnlnbratn. 

. ·... ~ " 

W~dne.sday, December 6, 1989 
The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS 

Wednesday 
12:10 p.m. Closed meeting of Alcoholic Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 7 p.m. SMC Basketball vs. University of Indianapolis, An­gela Athletic Facility. 8 p.m. Jazz Band Concert, Washington Hall. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Wednesday 
4 p.m. Kellogg InstitutP lecture, "The Myth and the Real­ity of an Autonomous State: Social_ P_olicy. in the G~rman Empire," by George Steinmetz, Cmversity of Chicago, Hoom 131 Decio Faculty Hall. . 
4:20 p.m. Physics lecture, "Noise In A Driven Mag?et1c System: Insight to 1-F Noise,". by Dan Dal~lberg, Umver­sity of Minnesota. Hoom 118 N1euwland Science Hall. 
7:30 p.m. Year of the Family lecture, "T~e Black F~m­ily," by Jawanza Kunjufu, president of Afncan Amencan Images, Hoom 127 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
MENUS 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Chicken Fried Steak Sweet & Sour Meatballs Spaghetti & Meatballs French Style Waffles Vegetable l{ice Casserole Hoast Pork Loin Veal Parmesan Grinder Deli Bar 
ACROSS 25 Alfonso Xlll's queen
1 ". . the home of 
26-Pointe

the-
Woods, Mich. 

6 Cringe 29 Overbearing11 -toit (rush) 34 Verdi opera 14 Do a paving job 
35-time

again (never)15 Like the Tower of 37 NocturnalPis a animal 
16 Antoine's soul 38 Spring month in 17 "To fetch her Metz 
poor dog-" 39 Take exception 18 One of the 41 Wrath
"Great" five 42 Musical study 
20 Part of the Bay State 45 Classify 
46 Part of A.MA

22 Dodge 
47-Pythias senatorial fame 49 Hit violently 23 Thurmond of 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


CROSSWORD 
51-Antilles: Abbr. 52 Ornate pitchers 54 Heckles 
58 New Zealand is part of it 
62 Mississippi tributary 

64 Nights, in Sedan 
65 Actor Chaney 66 Between Tinker 
and Chance 67 Parcel out 68 Use henna 69 Thick 

10 One in an office pool 
DOWN 
1 Bric-a-­

2 Midianite king 
3 At the peak 
4 A Redgrave 
5 Constructs 

12 Melville book: 31 Amman's sect 53 Opposite of 6Ralph­1847 better
32 Nightingale, egEmerson 
13 Ivy League team 54 Daring
33 Drift 7Call-day 19 Custom 36 Sea swallow 55"Ship-1" 
(retire) 21 Echo was one 40 Violin forerunner 56 Break bread 

a Greek goddess 24 Like Lake Mead 43Lie-(in 57 Explorer Hedin of victory 
26 Patronized a hiding) 59 Ibis's habitat 9lngenious casino 44 Enrolled 
60Take-the 

10 The "spirit" in 27 Lasso 46 Attack chin intoxicating 28 Disrepute 48 Succeed 61 Regardingliquors 
30 Disorderly 50 Spots for 63 Sounds of 11 Mata-retreat matches hesitance 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
FOR ··s\.loW f>.N() \ELL' Tao;..'{, I l-It>.~ SOMETI-\\1'-lG 11\t>.\ WI\.1. AS\()\)~D MolD A.MP-.1.£. 'IOIJ! \\\IS UTILE GJ~ C~ ... 


WILBUR AND WENDEL BILL WATTERSON 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON
1-111-'IE ~au AlL 1-\t>.D 
"iOIJR S"OIS? 
I 





JAY HOSLER 


"So, Professor Jenkins! ••• My old nemesis! ••• We meet again, but this time the advantage Is mine! Ha! Hal Ha!" 
• 


5~\~Dmn"I,-MkJID 

Saturday 
Prize for winning 
December9 
$35 
T-SHIRT logo 
Tickets: $7 
Tickets $5 
Prize for winning 
@LaFortune $115
@ LaFortune BOOKLET COVER •
Info Desk 
Info Desk 
Designs due in SUB office by Dec. 13 
.-----------------------------~----------------------------------------------­
page 16 

By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 

BLOOMINGTON -All too oftPn during Notre Damn's ganw with Indiana at Assembly I tall Tuesday night, it was diffi­cult to tPll which team was starting threP freshmen and which n~turned all its players from last yPar. 
Tlw I4th-rankPd lloosiers (4­
0) took advantagn of 16 first­half Irish turnovPrs to grab a 42-29 lead at tlw intPrmission and lwld ofT a late Notrn Damn charge to win S 1-72. 
Indiana had three freshmen scorn in double ligures. Calbert 
... Cheaney IPd ·thn way with 20 points. Gn~g Graham added 16 and Chris Hnynolds scored 14. "Tiwy've got frnshmen playing likn sPniors. and we've got seniors playing like freshmen," said Irish senior guard Joe Fn~drick. who was held under 10 points for the second straight game. "They didn't do anything we did not expect. "It's disappointing whnn you havn snniors who go out there and don't know what they're doing. It's a joke." 
Fred rick and fellow senior .JamPrn .Jackson watched much of the first half from the side­lines. The Irish co-captains each saw only seven minutes of playing time in the first half, eombining for five turnovers and four points. Jackson fin­ished with eight points. while Fn~drick scon~d six. 
"We need to get Frndrick and Jackson's confidencn up be­cause thny arP not doing the things they can do," said Irish coa('h Digger Phelps, who watched his team fall to 1-2 on the season. "They are our two leading scorers from last sea­son (exeluding the currently ineligible LaPhonso Ellis), and we have to get them going." 
Senior Irish forward Keith Hobinson. averaging 20 points per game going into the evening, scored just six points Tuesday on a 2-of-7 shooting pnrformance. Notre Dame's in­side game was further deci­mated when junior forward Kevin Ellery went down with a sprainnd ankle in the first half. 
"They concentrated more on stopping our inside game," said Hobinson. "It was kind of hard for our guards to get us the ball inside because they always had someone sagging in." 
Eric Anderson led Indiana's 
Daimon Sweet provided the only bright spot for the Irish in the first half. The sophomore 

Freshmen lead Hoosiers in home victory over Irish 
swingman came off the bench 
and scored 10 of his game-high 
16 points in the first 20 min­
utes. Sweet shot S-of-9 from 
the field. and his seven re­
bounds wPm tops on the team. 

"I just went out on the noor and did my job description. and everything fell into place," said Sweet. 
Sweet's "Texas Express" co­hort Elmer Bennett added 15 points. also in a reserve role.and was Notre Dame's only other player in double­digit scoring. 
Indiana extended its lead to 17 points in the first minute of the second half, when Greg Graham's layup put the Hoosiers on top 46-29. 
"We were getting embar­rassed. and that's not Notre Dame basketball," said Jackson. "They're well-coached, and if you make a mistake, they'll capitalize. We picked up the intensity in the second half." 
Notre Dame gradually chipped away at the lead and made the score 63-55 on a pair of Robinson free throws with 
effort  in  the  paint  with  10  
points and a g ame-high 11  re­ 
bounds.  

4:38 to play. "We played about as well as 

............. 
we could during the first 20 

The Observer/Pat Kusek 
minutes," said Indiana coach 

Freshman Greg Graham scored 16 points to help pace the Indiana Hoosiers to an 81-72 victory over Notre Dame last night in
see KNIGHT I page 12 
Bloomington. Fellow freshman Calbert Cheaney led I.U. with 20 points. 
Cheaney stars for Knight's young team 
Zorich, Ismail, Lyght named first team AP All-Americans
• 
lAPl--Three Notre Dame football players--junior nose guard Chris Zorich. junior cornerback Todd Lyght, and sophomore return speeialist Haghib "Hoeket" Ismail led thf' Assoeiatl~d Press 19S9 .Ail­Anwriea team. which was an­nounced on Tuesday. D1~fensive tackle Jeff Aim was the only Irish player to be rutmed an AP second tPam AII-Anwrican. team. No Irish players were nanwd to thf' third team. 
NotrP Dame was tlw only team in the country which placed thme players on the AII­Anwrican team. Top-ranked Colorado had two players m­ceive All-American weognition. as did Florida State, Southern California, llouston, and Michigan State. 
... llouston's Andre Ware, who edged Indiana's Anthony Thompson in thn fourth-closest lleisman Trophy vote ever, was named the first team All-America quarterback. Ware shattered 13 NCi\1\ marks and tied two others this season as the quarterback of Houston's run-and-shoot offense. He capped his remarkable year Saturday against Hice by set­ting single-season records for most complf~tions (365) and passing yards (4,699), falling just one short of Jim 
McMahon's NCAA mark of 47 touchdown passes. 
While Ware was establishing passing standards. Thompson was running off with his own records. The Indiana tailback set NCAA career marks for touchdowns and points, led the nation in rushing with 1,793 yards and broke the single­game rushing record with 377 against Wisconsin. 
Ware and Thompson were unlikely rand idatl~s for star­dom. Ware had virtually no 
see STARS I page 14 
By GREG GUFFEY Assistant Sports Edjtor  
BLOOMINGTON -The time for Indiana's Calbert Cheanelike a freshman.  was y to  ripe play  

After all, he aln~ady had seorl'd 20 points in Indiana's season-opening win over Miami (Ohio) and was averaging 
6.7 rebounds and a team-high 16.7 points per contest three games into the season. 
The bubble was about to burst. 
And here was Notre Dame. IPd by se­niors Joe Fredrick. Jamem Ja('kson and Keith Hobinson. mounting a conwback in the dosing stages of his biggest col­legiatn game to date. 
But Cheaney didn't give in to the pres­sure. And he cPrtainly didn't play like an 18-year old. 
The 6-6 forward from Evansville scored 20 points on S-of-1 0 field-goal and 4-of-5 free-throw shooting to lead the 14th-ranked Hoosiers to an S 1-72 victory over the Irish before 17,311 fans at Assembly Hall. 
Most importantly, Cheaney made th1~ big plays down the strPtrh, wlwn NotrP Dame was trying a final comPbark with four rninutns to play in thn ganw. 
In a three-minute strPtrh, ChPaJwy: 
•slamnwd 
a two-handPd dunk ovPr Tim SingiPton with 3:4:{ to play, dww tlw foul and compiPtnd tlw thnw-point play to put tlw I IoosiPrs ahead (,(,-55. That also PndPd a four-point run by Notre DamP. 

•pieknd 
up a loosp inbounds pass al'tnr a NotrP DamP basket had rut tlw lead to 70-63. puslwd thn ball alwad and watdwd Gn~g Graham scorP on a layup. Tlw Irish could havn rut tlw IPad to live if they had rome up with tlw ball. 

•!wiped 
thP Hoosier barkcourt bPat the 10-sl'cond count against tlw Irish pmss with 1:10 to play and thl' srorP 74-63. That virtually sealed NotrP Dame's fatP. 


"We knPw coming into tlw ganw that hP was fundamPntally sound and eould do a lot of different things," Notre Damn eo-captain .Iamere Jackson said. "We wanted to contain him early. but hP 
see FROSH I page 14 
The best, brightest in '89 Irish football 
At the end of every football season back home. I look for­ward to my local newspaper presenting its set of awards to various members of the Florida State and Florida A&M teams. 

So with all cn~dit going to the Tallahassee (Fla.) Democrat, and without an original thought nowing in my mind at the present time, here goes my list of awards for the 19S!J Notre Damn football team. Please remember thesn are only in the opinion of one person and should not be taknn with any more than a handful of grains of salt. 
BPst playPr: It's probably going to take a few ynars (or the unlikely possibility of a few lnan recruiting sPasons) for Irish fans to truly appn~­ciate the number of talnnts on this team. Zorieh. Ismail. Lyght. Bolcar. Watters. Johnson. Grunhard. 


But tlwre really hasn't been much doubt as to who the most valuable player on this squad has been for the last couple of years. The numbnrs 27-3, Notre Dame's won-loss record with him as starting quarterback, are all the evi­dence Tony Hice needs to prove he has overcome all the adversity that came with his nntranen into the University. 
BPst freshman: Notrn Dame's early depth problmns on defense helped players likn .J.It Bryant, Eric Simien and Nick Smith gnt some 1~arly playing time. Hick MirPr im­provPd as tiH~ season w1mt on, rPplacing Hice in games whPre the Irish had lo('ked up a win early. l>orsny Levnns and Hnggie Brooks looked im­pressive at times coming out of the Irish backliPid. 
Those players only showPd a s1wak preview of things to eoml'. Thny will gnt a bnttPr opportunity to provn tlwm­snlves in tllP 1wxt year or two. In tlw mean ti m1~, Craig IIPntrich steppnd right into full tinw duty. 
Aftpr working only on kirkofl's in tlw snason-opPner against Virginia, llentrich had won both thn placPkicking and punting jobs by midseason. llentrich finishPd thP season connecting on S-ol'-15 liPid goal attPmpts and avnraging 
44.6 yards pPr punt. 

see AWARDS I page 12 





