
VOL. XXII, NO. 117 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


Peoria, Ill. fire kills nine 
Associated Press come out burned like that," she Fire Chief John Parker said continued. "I was just hysteri­rescuers found "people stand­
, PEORIA, Ill.-Fire swept cal." ing on the porch and some through an apartment house Police and fire authorities, people on the roof. There were early Tuesday, killing seven aided by arson investigators people already injured when children and two young mot­from the Federal Bureau of Al­we got there." hers, and investigators were cohol, Tobacco and Firearms, Several neighbors said they seeking to question a visitor were sifting through the rubble watched helplessly as the fire who left the building shortly in a working-class neighbor­swept the house. before the fire broke out. hood in this central Illinois city "The kid was up there 
The three other occupants of of about 130,000. waving her hands like she was the building were injured, two Three families, consisting of yelling for help and the flames of them seriously. Officials four adults and eight children, were all around her," said said the cause was under inves­lived in the house, and had Charles Harris, 34, who was tigation and stressed the man moved there last year, officials visiting his sister in the apart­being sought was not a suspect. said. ment building next door. 
The blaze started about 2 Police Capt. Mary Dunlavy Three people died at the 
a.m. on the first floor and had said Carl Wells, who was scene and six were pronounced engulfed the two-story, wood­treated at St. Frances Medical dead at two hospitals, said frame structure by the time Center and released, was the Peoria county coroner Herbert firefighters responded. only survivor to have been in­Buzbee. The children ranged in 
"The fire was just blazing all terviewed. age from 4 months to 10 years, of a sudden.. .I can't remem­"He woke up, went down the he said. ber hearing (noise) or anyth-stairs and it was hot and he had "As far as we know this is 
. ing," said Rhonda Tracy, a rel­to go, of course, back upstairs the worst fire we've ever had ative of several of the victims and try to wake the others," in Peoria in terms of deaths," who lived across the street and she said. "And then he went out the coroner said. was first to call the fire depar­the window onto the roof and Assistant Fire Chief Sam tment, at 2:20a.m. was rescued by the fire depar­Sisk said he believed the cause 
"I had never seen people tment with a ladder." of death was smoke inhalation. 
Bush calls for tougher ethics in the executive 
Associated Press received by members of one-year ban that currently called for a ban on honoraria congressional pay raise, sepa­Congress, and will recommend prohibits executive branch to members of Congress for rate from the ethics package 
WASHINGTON-President no change in the widely employees from lobbying their speaking engagements or he was preparing to put for­Bush intends to call for more criticized system that permits former office to have it apply similar work. Such honoraria ward Wednesday, said the offi­stringent ethical rules on exec­lawmakers to earn thousands to members of Congress and to provide thousands of dollars in cial who spoke anonymously. utive branch officials and rec­of dollars in speaking fees. judges, said a source who spoke outside income for senators Bush's proposal is expected ommend a 25 percent pay raise Bush, who promised during on the condition of anonymity. and representatives in a sys­to cover matters such as out­for federal judges in a sweep­last year's campaign to crack In making his proposals, tem that critics, including side income, conflicts of inter­ing ethics-in-government pro­down on ethical laxness in gov­Bush is expected to accept Bush's ethics panel, contend al­est, financial disclosure, en­gram to be unveiled Wednes­ernment, arranged to lay out most of the recommendations lows for too much special inter­forcement and restrictions on day, administration officials his recommendations in a made by a special commission est influence on the represen­what executive branch said Tuesday. speech at the American Society he established, and discard tatives. employees can do after they 
But these officials said Bush of Newspaper Editors conven­some others. But the president decided leave the government. has decided for the time being tion. The commission that Bush that the issue of honoraria His announcement follows against recommending any Among the recommen­set up to recommend changes should be considered in con­hike in the $89,500 salary dations is one extending the for an ethics overhaul had junction with the question of a see BUSH I page 4 
Troubled South Shore has 20 potential buyers 
Associated Press the South Shore, but he declined to name any of 
CHICAGO-Officials of the them. Chicago, South Shore and He also declined to reveal South Bend Railroad said the extent of the railroad's Monday they have more losses, but the bankruptcy than 20 potential buyers for filing said the carrier had as­the financially troubled car­sets $37.8 million and rier. liabilities of $37.2 million. 
But any sale will have to Feder said the assets be approved by a federally represented the book value appointed trustee who of the railroad and not nec­should be named within essarily what the carrier three weeks, said Michael could fetch if sold. Feder, acting chief operat­ing officer of the railroad. He called the railroad's 
Feder said the commuter freight operation healthy, and freight line would con­but said a number of short­tinue to operate despite term cash flow problems as Friday's announcement of well as continuing losses bankruptcy. from the passenger service 
"We concluded that the operation forced the bank­bankruptcy filing was neces­ruptcy filing. sary as a result of a number of difficult events which Last November, the Inter­evolved over the last num­state Commerce Commis­ber of years," Feder said. sion ruled that the railroad "Those events will not could end its commuter ser­prevent the railroad from vice on May 31 if it had not operating both freight and reached agreements on in­passenger services." creased subsidies with the 
Feder told reporters at a Northwest Indiana Com­news conference that more muter Transportation Dis­than 20 parties had ex­trict and Metra, the Chicago pressed interest in buying regional transit agency. 


Rape self-defense stressed 
By JOANNA GRILLO 
News Staff 
Amidst the growing concern about rape in the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's communi­ty,Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE) spon­sored a two-part presentation Tuesday, featuring discussions on date rape and self-defense demonstrations. 
Jerry Wroblewski from the Midwest Karate Academy in Mishawaka offered some safety and prevention tips with the help of some of his students. 
According to Wroblewski, the key to self -defense is awareness. Since the goal of a rapist is domination, it is im­portant for a potential victim to convey self-confidence. Wroblewski says to be aware of your surroundings. 
"Walk with your head up. Don't do things that will put you in a vulnerable situation-use your head. If you isolate your­self, you are putting youself in a potentially bad situation." 
Six of Wroblewski's students demonstrated physical self­defense techniques, stressing the importance of targeting vulnerable areas such as the eyes, hair, toe line, and groin. 
Wroblewski said that Karate heightens awareness and makes you more in tune with your body, more able to adapt. He does not suggest that you can become a self-defense ex­pert overnight, but he does in­sist that you can be aware, and avoid putting yourself in vul­nerable situations. 
Molly Meyer, a Saint Mary's senior, and Pat Credon, a senior at Notre Dame led a dis­cussion on datelaquaintance rape. Both students are affili­ated with Sex Offense Services (SOS), a 24-hour rape crisis counseling service that operates out of the Madison Center in South Bend. 
Both Meyer and Credon said that datelaquaintance rape is a widespread problem, although it may not be one that is well publicized throughout the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's com­munity. They stressed aware­ness and prevention. 
Much of the problem on campus is that most of the rapes that occur are not re­ported, and therefore other stu­dents are.unaware of the exist­ing danger. 
One student expressed a familiar sentiment, . "The schools are just avoiding the problem. It is up to students to put pressure on the schools-to get them to admit that these things do happen on these cam­puses. Just because there is a rule prohibiting sex does not mean that it is not happening." 

Another observer added, "This applies to your life out­side of school. It could happen anywhere-on the job, at an in­ternship, while you are home during break, any time." 
Another problem addressed was the false sense of security the students have. Because of the social stigma attached to rape, it is a problem that is not given enough attention in the NMMC community. One stu­dent said, "Notre Dame and Saint Mary's aren't so different that these things do not happen here." 
Awareness is one thing that CARE and SOS are trying to promote. Meyer said, "Rape is not a women's issue. It is a people's issue. It affects everybody.'' 
"It is something that both sexes have to talk about. It can-
see RAPE I page 4 
~----~ ~--~--........-­

--~---------------~--­
Wednesday, April 12, 1989
page 2 The Observer WORLD BRIEFS 
Perms and near death 



experiences at the mall
Syrian gunners shelled Christian areas Tuesday in spite of a 6-day-old truce called by the Arab League, and Paris sent an envoy to work out a distribution plan for two shiploads of French humanitarian aid. Police said the howitzer shells landed in a scattered pattern in Christian territory and no casualties were reported. They said the Christians held their fire. 
The Soviet navy said Tuesday it plans to retrieve a nuclear submarine that sank off Norway to learn what caused the acci­dent that killed 42 sailors. "We consider that we must raise it," Vice Adm. Sergei Vargin said on the nightly television news program Vremya. Vargin, who is with the Soviet Baltic Fleet, said details of how to bring the submarine up from nearly 5,000 feet below the surface had not been worked out. 
U.N. troops opened checkpoints Tuesday in northern Namibia, but South Mrica said no guerrillas showed up to begin a withdrawal to salvage a U.N. cease-fire and independence plan for Namibia. Chief Inspector Kierie du Rand, a South Mrican spokesman for the territorial police, said groups of more than 50 black nationalist insurgents were seen heading south, disobey­ing orders from their exiled leader to withdraw north to Angola. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 

President Bush's minimum wage plan was defeated Tuesday as the Senate moved closer to confronting him with a proposal he repeatedly has promised to veto. The Senate, on a 61-39 vote largely along party lines, backed an amendment to legislation sponsored by Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., that brought the measure essentially in line with a House-passed bill calling for an hourly minimum wage of $4.55 by October 1991. 
Police found a mass grave just south of the Mexican border Tuesday containing the bodies of 12 people who were the victims of human sacrifice by a satanic cult of drug smugglers, officials said. "It was horrible," Cameron County Sheriff Alex Perez told a news conference in this border city. "It was like a human slaughterhouse." Mexican federal police arrested four people, said sheriff's Lt. George Gavito. Gavito said the suspects were U.S. and Mexican citizens, but did not identify them further. 
Vice President Dan Quayle will visit Australia, Singapore, Indonesia and Thailand over a 10-period from April 26 to May 5, aides said Tuesday. Quayle will represent President Bush at this year's celebration of Australian-American Friendship Week, which symbolizes the historically close relations between the two countries and commemorates the Battle of the Coral Sea during World War II, in which U.S. and Australian forces overcame great odds to gain a military victory. 
INDIANA BRIEFS 

South Bend police say they cannot guarantee the safety of Alan Matheney in the St. Joseph County Jail, where he will await trial in the March 4 beating death of his former wife. St. Joseph Superior Court Judge William Whitman ruled Monday that Matheney should be held in the county jail, as his attorneys requested. Deputy Prosecutor John D. Krisor Jr. and jail officials wanted Matheney to remain at the Indiana State Prison in Mic­higan City, where he has been held for four weeks. 
We have a stereotype of the shopping mall containing dehumanized and faceless people going about their humdrum featureless exis­tence oblivious to the presence of others. Many people see nothing but junk to buy and robot-like salespersons to sell it. 
But, this conception of a modern day was­teland was shattered for me on Monday when I had a spiritual experience at the shopping mall (no, I did not buy a new wardrobe). 
The woman who permed my hair brought up the subject of supernatural phenomena by describing a mansion in South Bend that she used to clean. It was built in 1927 as a house to host international gambling. 
As the woman described the gambling room, I suddenly felt chilled (maybe from some per­ming solution). She told me that she saw a vapor of a person in that room one day while she dusted. 
Then, she went on to tell me about the spirit of her deceased friend walking around, clatter­ing pans and calling her name at night because she now lived in her friend's home. 
"What do you think about this?" she asked me. 
Well, I've never given much thought to vapors and spirits before and so I intelligently responded: 
"Un..., hum..., my sixth grade Girl Scout leader told me about a spirit in her house once during story time around the campfire. 
Next, she cut right to her out-of-body experi­ence telling me that she experienced the "black tunnel" when she was 18. 
"Aha," I thought, "I know something about this." I jumped in and told her "I just studied near-death experiences in my philosophy class." 
"Who's your professor?" she asked. "Professor Morris," I answered while think­ing "she's not going to know who he is." 
She totally surprised me then (but, I guess by now, I really shouldn't be shocked by anyth­ing she tells me). "I cut his hair once," she said. 
I began thinking "this conversation is going beyond weird." 
Because she was interested in what we were "itudying, I told her that we had just started 
OF INTEREST 

'I had a spiritual experience at the shopping mall. .. ' 
Missy Weber News Copy Editor 

studying something about theism and evil. "Do you believe that evil exists in the world?" she questioned me. 
Again, I respond with my intellectually ex­cellent mind. "Well ..., ah..., I haven't really thought about it, we just started the section today." 
She tells me that she believes evil is very real in the world and it seems that the end of the world is near because of the diseases such as AIDS and cancer. "Did I know what the world was supposed to be like when the end of the world was proximate? Had we discussed it in class?" 
I told her that I didn't know what the world was supposed to be like then, and I didn't believe that we would study it in class. 
By now, I was feeling rather overwhelmed and bewildered. My stay of three hours was quickly coming to a close. 
As she finished my hair, she mentioned that she doesn't talk to everyone like she talked to me. She also expressed hopes that I would come back and we could have another discussion. 
I enjoyed talking to her and probably will go back (I kind of like the way my hair turned out), but, next time, I will not be astonished by the topics of our conversation. In fact, I will think about those issues before I go back. 
The mall is not only a place of people selling things. So the next time you go to the shopping mall, don't be surprised if something out of the ordinary, such as this conversation, happens to you. 
Missy Weber is a freshman enrolled in the Freshman Year of Studies. She is a Copy Editor for The Observer. 
Where are You in Your Job Search? 
will be the topic of a workshop for graduating students tonight at 6:30p.m. in the Montgomery Theater in LaFortune Student Center, led by Jeff Rice. 
SOl (Strategic Defense Initiative) will be the topic of a brown bag presentation by William McGlinn, professsor of the physics dept. at noon today in Room 105 of the Law School. 
Seniors-Les Miserables tickets should be picked up today from 2-4 p.m. in the Senior Class Office. 
Any Freshman interested in being a part of the sophomore class government for next year should pick up applicatins starting today at the Student Government Secretary's desk, 2nd floor LaFortune, and return them by April 19. 
NDE 4th Day will hold its final meeting tonight at 9 p.m. at Walsh's south lounge. 
Dancer/Choreographer Caitlin Cobb 
will present an open master dance class in modern dance technique today from 3: 30 to 5 
p.m. in the Regina Hall Dance Studio at Saint Mary's, and a pubic performance at 8 p.m. at the Colfax Cultural Center, 914 Lincolnway W. 
Antostal Road Wars Bike Race signups for the race on Thursday, April 27 will be held today at LaFortune. For more info call Darin or Eric at 283-3472. 
~ampus Alliance for Rape Elimina­tion (C.A.R.E.) will sponsor "The Dating Game" tonight at 7 p.m. at the SMC Haggar Parlor. Assistant Professor Daniel Lapsley will lead a panel discussion on students' perceptions of dating at NOOMC, focusing on blind dates, SYR's, expectations. values, etc. 
Cruise Into the Night aboard the U.F.S. Northern Star or Southern Belle this evening to enjoy a cruise line extravaganza. The ships' captains invite you to partake in "The Captain's Meal"--a bountiful buffet in the dining halls tonight, from 4:45-6:45 p.m. Floating fantasies and Caribbean weather is permitted. Formal attire is optional. 
WEATHER 


April weather? 
Partial clearing today, highs in the lower 40s. Clearing and cold tonight, with lows in the middle 20s. Mostly sunny Thursday, highs in the upper 40s. 
ALMANAC 

On April 12: e In 1861: The Civil War began 
as  Confederate forces fired  on  Fort  
Sumter in South  Carolina.  
e  In  1945:  Franklin  Delano  

Roosevelt died of a cerebral hemorrhage at age 63, just three months after beginning an unprecedented fourth term in office. Vice President Harry Truman became the nation's 33rd chief executive. 
e In 1961: Soviet cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin became the first man to fly in space, orbiting the earth once be­fore making a safe landing. 
e Ten years ago: Tanza­nian-led forces consolidated their hold on Kampala, the capital of Uganda, one day after ousting President ldi Amin. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for Tuesday, April 11, 1989 

Dow Jones 
Industrial Average 
+9.71 
Closed at 2311.58 
S&P 500 +us to 298.49 
Currency exchange 
Mark f-.0087 to 1.8853 DM I$ 
Yen +.19 to 132.71 ¥I$ 
Precious Metals Gold +$.40 to $389.90 I oz. Silver it 1.3¢ to $5.8631 oz. 


-Ih-e-Obse.~~r--­
-------~~·~'---­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods_ The Observer is published by students of the Untversity of Notre Dame and Saini Mary"s College. Subscriptions may be pur­chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
Tuesday's Staff 
Design Editor .............................. Kathy Gliwa Design Assistant....•••.....•........ Chris Labaree Typesetters ................................... Mike Kolar ................................................... Gilbert Gomez News Editor .............•.••..••...•. Christine Walsh Copy Editor ........•...................... Laura Downs Sports Copy Editor ..........•..•...• Gregg Guffey Accent Designer ...................... Jane Ricciardi NO Day Editor............................. Kathy Bums SMC Day Editor ....................... Alissa Murphy Photographer.................. Andrew McCloskey Business Page Copy Editor........ Mike Kolar Sports Wednesday Editor ••.••••• Frank Pastor 
Information compiled from Observer wires and Observer staff reports. 
Wednesday, April 12, 1989 The Observer page 3 
Pow Wow planned 
By PETER LOFTUS News Staff 
The first annual Pow Wow, organized by Notre Dame's Na­tive American Club, was an­nounced Tuesday at the Hall Presidents' Council meeting. 
This educational event, which is sponsored by fourteen various campus organ iza­tions, is scheduled for April 16 at Stepan Center. 
One hundred fifty Native Americans from around the country, along with 26 Notre Dame Native Americans, will be at the celebration, which is scheduled from 10 a.m. to 7 
p.m. The events will include demonstrations on beading and basket-weaving, with the par­ticipants wearing their tradi­tional Native American gar­ments. 
In other business, an an­nouncement was made for the SUB's Anti-Apartheid Week. "Cry Freedom" will be shown, and the author of the book it was based on, Donald Woods, will give a lecture Thursday. Also, there will be an open­house at the SUB office on Mon­day, April17, from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Deadlines were set for appli­cations for various positions within the HPC. 
Also, any dorm that wants to apply for more money from the HPC budget is to submit an ap­plication by Friday, April14. 
Holy Cross Hall will be hold­ing a lOOth anniversary celebration with a hog roast on Wednesday, live pigs on Friday, and an open house on Saturday. A softball game be­tween the HPC and various rec­tors and assistant-rectors is scheduled for Sunday. 
Panelists debate over University's divestment 
By JULIE RYAN News Staff 
In a panel discussion Tues­day, Professor Peter Walshe, Dean David Link, and Profes­sor James Carberry spoke on divestment in South Mrica. 
"This struggle has been going on a long time and has just gotten bad since the race riots in the 1960's and has never been as bad as it is now," said Walsh. Each member gave their opening comments, responded to questions posed by former Student Body Vice President Mike Paese, and then responded to questions posed by the audience. 
Walshe took the liberal side. He said that it is Notre Dame's duty to listen and support the blacks in South Mrica. 

W alshe emphasized the fact that the University's help can save the 35,000 black Mricans that have been detained with­out trial, remember 3,500 that have lost their lives, and give justice to those who face segregation and torture. 
Carberry took the conserva­tive side. His opening com­ments were that divestment is a "political and economic fol­ly" and he said that "apartheid is intrinsically evil." 
Carberry said that the South American blacks do not want the divestments of American corporations and that Americans have looked foolish by rushing in trying to help where they are not wanted. 
Notre Dame should not divest in South Mrica, accor­ding to Carberry. 
Link said that Notre Dame can be "effective in the area of education on apartheid." 
Notre Dame could invite black South Mricans and white South Mricans to debate the issue of divestments. Students and faculty could have a better understanding of the situation by learning about it from first sources. 
The panel was sposored by the Student Union Board and the Year of Cultural Diversity during Apartheid Awareness Week. 

Associated Press 
MOSCOW-Police arrested hundreds of people and were seizing tens of thousands of hunting rifles from Soviet Georgians in an attempt to calm the republic, which on Tuesday mourned 19 people killed in a pro-independence rally. 
Tanks, armored personnel carriers and soldiers patrolled the streets of the southern republic's capital, Tbilisi, to enforce a ban on public gatherings and an 11 p.m.-6 a.m. curfew. 
President Mikhail Gor­bachev said he considered it a "sacred" principle that Georgians and others should have the right to express their opinions freely, but said the law set limits on their actions, reported the head of West Germany's So-
Student Union Board Presents 
A NIGHT OF THE BlUES featuring 

IN CONCERT Sat. APril 15 1O:OOPM at Theodore's 
free admission with Student 1.0. (NO/SMCJ 

with or taken lightly,'' Hans­Jochen Vogel quoted the So­viet leader as saying. 
Reports indicated a gen­eral strike that began Friday to back demands for Georgia's secession was easing. Some buses and trol­leys resumed routes Tues­day, said Nana Natadze, the wife of a Georgian nationalist activist. She said many schools remained closed because of a boycott. 
Tuesday was declared a day of mourning to mark what the Georgian Commu­nist Party leader, Djhumber Patiashvili, called "a com­mon grief"-the deaths of civilians killed in a clash Sunday with soldiers and police at the pro­independence demonstra­tion. 

BIKE TRIP SUNDAY, APRIL 16 
along the lake michigan shore call nva to reserve a spot think warm! 

for more details call 239-6100 

-~ ~ --~~--~-------~-~-----------------------­
page 4 The Observer 
' 
APPhoto

Student protestors 
Hundreds of students take to the streets of Katuturra township in Namibia Tuesday in a day of nationwide demonstrations in solidarity with the SWAPO fighters who died in recent fighting in the north of the country. Two hundred sixty-nine SWAPO insurgents have been killed since April 1. 
Bush 
continued from page 1 

the March 10 report by his eight-member ethics commis­sion, which detailed 27 recom­mendations for changes in ethics laws and regulations as they apply to senior officials, judges and members of Congress and their staffs. 
In addition to proposals that require congressional legisla­tion, Bush will issue an execu­, tive order covering executive branch employees, the admin­branch for purposes of lobby­ing after working for the gov­ernment. 

The current one-year lobQy­ing ban for executive branch workers would remain but would be extended to cover all agencies rather than just the one in which the individual was employed. 
For instance, a former em­ployee of the vice president's staff would be precluded not only from lobbying that office but also any other executive branch agency, such as the Of­fice of Management and Budget. 

Rape 
continued from page 1 
not be a taboo subject," added Credon. 
CARE, formed in 1985, is an organization that promotes the awareness of sexual violence issues. "We address issues that need to be talked about but aren't, said Karen Handloser, a senior Saint Mary's student and CARE representative. Both CARE and SOS depend upon volunteers to carry out thier goals. 
Wednesday, April 12, 1989 

Weather improves for Valdez clean up 
Associated Press 
VALDEZ, Alaska-RouglY seas that helped stall and break up some of giant oil spill from the Exxon Valdez became cal­mer Tuesday and winds shifted away from fish-rich Kodiak Is­land, the Coast Guard said. 
"Kodiak still seems to be saved," said Jim Hayden, the state of Alaska's cleanup co­ordinator. 
Coast Guard spokesman Ken Freeze said the spill appears to have stalled and is breaking into tar balls. "That's better than ooey, gooey oil," he said. 
Equipment continued to pour into the area aboard military transports. About 67 tons of ma­terial, everything from con­tainment booms to absorbent pads, were scheduled to arrive Tuesday. 
A huge Soviet oil-skimming vessel, the Vay Dagursky, was expected to arrive Saturday, state officials said. The ship can skim 200,000 gallons an hour and store 2 million gallons of oil on board, according to the officials. But it remains un­clear how effective it might be against the Alaska spill. 
Despite the favorable wea­ther, a light sheen of oil seeped into the Kenai Fjords National Park at scattered inlets and fjords, Freeze said. With a thickness measured in molecules, the sheen does not threaten serious environmen­tal damage, he said. 
The Coast Guard said it planned to deploy a flotilla of 
ATTENTION: Grad Students, 

Professors, Employees 
MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Less than 1 0 minutes from campus 


EQUAL HOUSING

call for details-277-3731 
OI'POOTUNrTY 


...o.n. ..SdiOOI Presents A Lecture 
By Ira Schwartz Professor and Director 
Ctr. For the Study of Youth Policy University of Michigan 
On 

"Responding to Violent & Chronic Juvenile Offenders: Promising Strategies and Developments" Noon Thursday, April 13 Room 220 Law School Courtroom 
30 fishing boats from Seward and six from Kodiak, along with the Coast Guard cutter Morganthau, to drag small­holed herring and shrimp nets through the leading edge of the slick. 
Coast Guard Capt. Joe Black­ett said tests Monday showed the nets break the oil into small globs, which don't reform. The operation may not begin until Wednesday, Blackett said. 
Much of the cleanup opera­tion so fAr has relied on floating containment booms. Cleanup crews ran into trouble when they tried to deploy a more per­manent boom at Sawmill Bill site of a salmon hatchery: Anchors weren't available in adequate numbers, Freeze said, and depth charts that hadn't been updated since the 1964 earthquake proved inac­curate. 
The Coast Guard has been in charge of cleanup operations since President Bush ordered 
stepped  up  federal  involve­ 
ment last week.  
Monday's  rough  weather,  

which saw seas to 15 feet, gale­force wind warnings and small craft advisories, turned calmer Tuesday. Aerial spotter flights resumed, seas reduced to 5 to 7 feet-still above normal-and winds shifted from the northwest. That could steer oil to the southeast and away from the coastline and Kodiak, the nation's richest fishing port last year. 
~......~..~........................~------~--------.-.-------------------------------~------------~------------------­
Wednesday, April 12, 1989 The Observer page 5 

The Observer I Andrew McCloskey
Geek week 

Enginering students perform an egg-drop with a water balloon at­tached to the bottom in one of the activities celebrating Engineers' Week. Their attempt: unsucessful. 
North denies role 
Claims conduct not deceptive 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Oliver North defended his honor and his efforts on behalf of the Nicaraguan Contras Tuesday against a fusillade of sugges­tions from the prosecutor that he violated the code he was taught at the Naval Academy. 
"At the U.S. Naval Academy you would have been kicked out for this?" Prosecutor John Keker asked at one point. 
"In the U.S. Naval Academy nobody taught me to run a covert operation," North retorted. Nor about "political warfare going on in Washing­ton in 1983-1986." 
On specific matters, North: 

•Denied he tried to help his as­sociate, Richard Secord, make a half million dollars by renting a ship to the CIA, which turned out not to be interested in the offer. •Said he was merely fol­lowing orders when he drafted a letter to Congress denying in­volvement in helping the Con­tras at a time when official aid was barred. 
"At the Naval Academy you were taught falsehood included deception?'' asked Keker of the witness, a Marine lieutenant colonel until he resigned in the wake of the Iran-Contra affair. 
"You were also trained to obey all lawful orders?" asked Keker, underlining the word lawful on a large pad on an easel facing the jury. 
"Did you take courses in that and learn what was meant by lawful and unlawful . . . you were trained and taught that it was a crime when in World War II at the end of the war German officers came and said they were ordered to do it?" 
Said North: "I don't believe I have ever received an unlaw­ful order." 
Bush battles for S&L plan 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-A house banking panel battled Tuesday over proposals to weaken the heart of the Bush administra­tion's savings and loan bailout plan by diluting a requirement that S&L owners back loans with more of their own money. 
In the first of a planned series of votes on proposed tougher capital standards, the House Banking subcommittee on fin­ancial institutions adopted, 30­17, a weakening amendment of­fered by Rep. Bill McCollum, R-Fla. 
The administration wants to encourage S&Ls to get out of areas such as real estate and insurance by r~quiring owners to back those investments en­tirely with their own capital. McCollum's amendment ex­empts healthy thrifts already engaged in those businesses from the stricter standard. 
Rep. Jim Leach, R-lowa, argued against the change, saying risky areas not tradi­tionally part of S&Ls' business helped push the industry into crisis. 
"What we're saying with this amendment is that vice in the past is acceptable," Leach said. 
Despite the threat of a presidential veto, subcommit­tee members were preparing later in the day to vote on a proposal that the administra­tion says would gut the central reform in its bill. 
President Bush wants to in­crease S&L capital require­ments by June 1991 from 3 per­cent of assets to 6 percent, contending that the more cap­ital S&L owners have at risk, the less likely they will be to take undue risks. 
A senior Treasury official this week reiterated the depar­tment's threat to recommend a veto if Congress waters down key elements of the bill. 
TV against drunk driving 
Associated Press 
BOSTON-J.R. Ewing slept off a night on the town before heading for the ranch. And Alex Keaton agreed to be "designated driver" as prime-time stars took on new roles this season in a campaign against driving drunk. 
The message-that drink­ing and driving is socially unacceptable-has been writ­ten into 32 television 
··::{ 

SECURITY BEAT 
WED., APRIL 5 
6:45 p.m. A resident of Morrissey Hall reported the theft of some text books from his unlocked dorm room sometime after 9:30a.m .. Total losses estimated at $82. 
THU., APRIL 6 
1:45 a.m. Notre Dame Security reported the theft of a phone and phone box from the wall in the archway at Howard Hall sometime between 1 and 1:45am .. Total losses are unknown. 
3:15a.m. An off -<:ampus student reported the theft of his jacket and its contents from the coat room of Alumni-Senior Club sometime that evening. Total losses are esti­mated over $70. 
6 p.m. A resident of Zahm Hall reported that some unknown white vehicle backed into his vehicle in the D 2 Lot sometime between 6 
programs since the season began last fall, including an entire episode of ABC's top­rated "Growing Pains" to be broadcast Wednesday night, said Jay Winsten of the Har­vard Alcohol Project. 
"You don't change social norms overnight, but we're off to a good start," he said. 
The Harvard Alcohol Proj­ect, begun in late 1987, is trying to harness the influ­ence of Hollywood and 
p.m., 4/1 and 6 p.m. 4/6. Total damages estimated at approx. $200. 
FRI., APRIL 7 
4 p.m. A resident of Flanner Hall reported the vandalism done to his vehicle while parked in D 2 Lot sometime between 5:30 p.m., 4/6 and 3 p.m., 4/7. Total damages are unknown. 
SAT., APRIL 8 
3:31 a.m. A Notre Dame Student reported the vandalism done to several cars parked in the D 2 park­ing lot sometime between 4/7 and 4/8. Total damages are unknown. 
2:20 p.m. A Holy Cross Hall resi­dent reported the vandalism done to his vehicle while parked in the D 6 parking lot sometime between 4/3 and 4/8. Total damages are un­known. 
Madison A venue in making drinking and driving as so­cially passe as smoking cigarettes. 
Last year, Harvard re­searchers targeted the small screen, making a low-key appeal to television execu­tives to write in occasional references to designated drivers. The proposal was . endorsed in April by the board of the Writer's Guild 
of America-West. 
4:10p.m. A resident of Grace Hall reported the vandalism done to his vehicle while parked in the JACC lot sometime between noon and 3:45 
p.m.. Total damages are unknown. 
1:20 
p.m. A resident of Lyons Hall reported the theft of her bike from the bike rack at the Hesburgh library sometime between 1 and 

1:20 
p.m.. Total losses estimated at $100. 


11:59 p.m. A Notre Dame em­ployee reported the theft of the lobby telephone from the Knott hall main desk. Total losses are un­known. 
SUN., APRIL 9 
7:30 p.m. A visitor to Notre Dame reported the theft of personal property from his unsecured vehicle while parked in Red Field sometime before 7:15 p.m. Total losses are estimated at $175. 

1.1.1 ALUMNI -• o~~r il ,,...,, 
~!:CLUB 
'89-'90 Disc Jockey Applications 
available in the Office of Student Activities 315 LaFortune. 
*Applications due April 21st 

-~ ~-------~----------------------------------------­
Business
page 6 Wednesday, April 12, 1989 
Mergers and Corporate 
Gary gambling bill passed
Transactions 
Deals involving U.S. targets and valued at $10 million or greater. Corporate 
Gary will hold advisory referendum May 1990 
transactions include recapitalizations, self-tenders, and exchange offers. 
Associated Press 
The vote Monday came on said Rep. Earline Rogers, D­Gary lawmakers' third at­Gary.
INDIANAPOLIS --A pro­

tempt to win approval of a Rogers said she now expects
posal to let Gary conduct a May 
casino gambling proposal. The S.B. 465 to go to a House-Senate 1990 referendum on casino 
House voted 54-46 earlier in the conference committee. If Sen. gambling easily passed the In­session against a broader Patricia Miller, the In­
diana House late Monday casino proposal that included dianapolis Republican and Sen­night. 
language about a casino ate sponsor of the bill, doesn't 
Lawmakers voted 69-30 for 

regulatory commission and want the casino language in it Sente Bill 465, which contains 
distribution of state revenue Rogers said she would cons ide; the casino proposal and a series from casinos. That measure adding the casino proposal to of election law revisions. also called for a binding Gary one of her own bills. 
Under the bill, the Lake referendum on casinos. 

County city could hold an advi­
The Senate Finance Commit­Rogers said it is possible she 
sory referendum on primary tee also rejected the broader will try to get the broader
election day in 1990 to deter­casino proposal. 
casino language put back into
mine residents' feelings on a 
a bill in conference committee. 
proposal to allow casino gam­Advocates of casino gaming She acknowledged gettingbling in lakefront hotels. then came back with the nar­any casino proposal through 
I II III IV I II III IV I II III IV I If voters approved casino rower proposal for an advisory the Republican-controlled Sen­$54 $65 $81 $129 $66 $92 $103 $80 $139 $90 $124 $204 $74 gambling, Gary lawmakers referendum. 
ate will be difficult. 
1988 would have to come back to the "I've said all along that the
1986 1987 '89 "But I expect the vote we got
General Assembly in 1991 to try more people knew about casino tonight ... ought to make for
Source: Securites Data Co. AP/Karl Gude to get the wagering legalized. gambling, the better we'll do," smoother sledding," she said. 
New S.B. phone service provides On the road to information at your fingertips Moscow McDonald's 
Associated Press boycott-"In a way it was the Associated Press 
best deal I never made" --but the service last November in "It's not a medium where TORONTO -When the he kept thinking about "280Green Bay, Wis. In January, (users) want to browse," says first McDonald's restaurant million people, hungry--this SOUTH BEND --Soap Touch Four entered three new Ron Kaatz, who teaches adver­opens in Moscow, the has got to be a great mar­operas, stock markets and markets--South Bend, tising at Northwestern Univer­Canadian executive who ket."
horoscopes all figure in the Madison, Wis. and Grand sity. "They are in need of some­helped make it happen "I just went back at it,"latest effort to generate more Rapids. thing." 
proably will be remember­he said in an interview atcustomer trips to the yellow Indianapolis and Evansville ing the Montreal Olympics company headquarters inpages and more advertising will be added later this year Jones says Ameritech has and a fateful bus ride 13 Toronto.
dollars. when updated directories are some preliminary figures on years ago. Soviet leader Mikhail Gor­The twist is called Touch published. the effectiveness of Touch Four George A. Cohon, a bachev's policies allowingFour, the trademark name For callers, the electronic in creating greater use, but Chicago native who is pres­joint ventures with foreig­given by Ameritech Publishing data banks provide regular up­declined to release the infor­ident of McDonald's of ners has made the agree­Inc. to a service offering 24-dates on sober-sided subjects mation, citing proprietary Canada, recalled that the ment possible. McDonald'shour access to a broad range such as world news and the ac­reasons. Ameritech Publishing company's corporate buses of Canada, a subsiqiary ofof brief, topical reports. tion on Wall Street. The phone also declines to provide figures were lent to Soviet or­the U.S. fast-food giantWith the touch of a finger, company shows it can lighten to support its claim that ad rev­ganizers of the 1980 Moscow McDonald's Corp., holds acallers have access to weather up, too, with daily horoscopes enue has risen 65 percent since Olympics touring Montreal minority position in partner­forecasts, financial reports, and plot digests of 16 daytime the company was created out in 1976. ship with the Moscow Citynews digests, sports, health and primetime soaps. of the breakup of AT&T. -Cohon, who still quotes Council's Food Service Ad­tips, and entertainment items. But Ameritech hopes the real McDonald's founder Ray ministration.
Anyone with a touch-tone beneficiaries will be business Ameritech's close holding of Kroc with respect andphone can dial a seven-digit advertisers who buy space in its research information-­relish, went along for fun Cohon, just back from hisnumber, then enter a four-digit the yellow pages. typical, says Kaatz, of the and made a stop at a latest trip to Moscow andnumber from 129 listings. highly competitive advertising Montreal McDonald's part planning another trip in"It's the kind of information Ameritech is wooing poten­business--leaves unanswered of the tour. May, said the food distribu­people need and use tial advertisers with research questions about the increased "That night we started tion center for the operation everyday," says Lori Jones, a that promises at least 80 per­yellow pages use that may be talking about the possibility is under construction. Afterspokeswoman for Ameritech cent of the adult population use generated by Touch Four: of getting involved," he said. it's ready late this year orPublishing in Troy, Mich. the yellow pages. Four of five Does the service encourage Cohon said the plan to in early 1990, the first two ofAmeritech, the parent corpo­who look up a company follow more frequent but more casual have McDonald's at the 1980 20 restaurants specified inration of Bell companies in In­that with a phone call, a letter use of yellow pages, and would Moscow Olyumpics fell the agreement will opendiana, Michigan, Illinois, Wis­or a visit, according to another casual users be as valuable to through before the U.S.-led near Red Square. 
consin and Ohio, inaugurated survey. the advertisers? 
Chrysler rebates are baloney: why not just cut prices? 
By LOUIS RUKEYSER 

that the actual rebates being offered something other than what it really is, that has fallen into its lap over the past 
Tribune Media Services 

may seem like the same tired old and maybe many people will be fooled. four years as the value of the dollar has What a sweet guy that Lee Iacocca automotive story, under a new self­(Subsidy? What subsidy?) been driven down, making American is. Having merely become a multimil­serving headline. So let's do what Detroit refuses to do, cars relatively much cheaper to 
lionaire, a culture hero and a giver of How dumb does Detroit think we are? and call all these "rebates" and "low produce. 
August advice--and all because we tax­Very dumb, if we are to judge by the interest rates" by their correct name. 
payers guaranteed a paltry $1.5 billion annual rash of misleading ads, of which They are (gasp!) price cuts. Akio Morita, the brilliant chairman in loans for his otherwise-doomed the Chryslter now-here's-a-present-for­Isn't that shocking? Well, you can see of Sony, told me he was stunned by the Chrysler Corporation--Lee now wants you effort is merely a particularly why no self-respecting auto firm would failure of Detroit's automakers to seize 
us to know he appreciates the effort. egregious example. want to come right out and say that, this opportunity to rebuild a much 
"You were there for us," says a typi­The latest phony-baloney routine con­can't you? I mean, it would be like ad­greater share of the U.S. auto market. cal ad from the company's new cam­cerns seemingly amazing interest-rate mitting that they couldn't sell the car Instead, he said, by keeping prices too paign, "now we perform for you." bargains. Chrysler has offered what ap­at the price they were asking, and had high they had fattened short-term prof­Well, golly gee. Isn't that terrific of pears to be the ultimate: zero-percent to come down. Wouldn't that be just its, but lost long-term possibilities. Lee? I can think of lots of super ways interest--on two-year loans. Which is too, too embarrassing for words? Now the motor moguls are com­
Why, if a Detroit giant honestly des­pounding the felony by refusing openly 
for him to show his sincere apprecia­absolutely terrific provided (a) you 
tion, can't you? How about a nice new want to pay the price they're asking, cribed its pricing policy, people might to reduce prices. Years ago the excuse convertible for your next birthday? Or and (b) you're willing and able to pay expect it to keep those prices down. And in Detroit was that if list prices were maybe, say, a minivan for Christmas? it off over two years. I'm sure a swell we certainly wouldn't want that, would lowered, they might be frozen there by Which do you think it will be? Alas, fellow like Lee couldn't possibly have we? government wage-price controls. No 
The moral, unfortunately, is a serious such threat exists today. If the Ameri­
neither, as it turns out, because as we been aware of this, but very few cus­
read further, we discover that all we're tomers fit that profile. one. For all its ostensible efforts to get can auto industry is ever truly to regain going to get is a rebate. And not, of its act together, to produce more effi­its former eminence, it might start by course, on the vehicles that Chrysler The point is that all these apparent cient, salable and reliable cars, Detroit rebating a little more truth and having can sell without such concessions, such concessions by all three companies are has till not learned to play fair with its a higher interest rate in bottom-line customers. And it has thus missed a customer arithmetic. Then we'll really 
as minivans and four-door Jeep essentially eyewash. It's 
substantial portion of the opportunity be there for you, Lee.
Cherokees. In fact, it's just possible lacoccanomics--aggressively call it 
Viewpoint 
Wednesday, April 12, 1989
page 7 


P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 

1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris DonnellyManaging Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor .... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor ................. Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ....... Shannon Roach Sports Editor ..................•... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks Accent Editor .........•................ John Blasi Systems Manager ............. Mark Derwent Photo Editor ..............•............. Eric Bailey OTS Director................... Angela Bellanca Controller ...................•........ Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper publisned by the students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the admimstrat1on of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Ch1ef. Managmg Editor. Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Sports Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of the1r authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

NO contributes to apartheid and violence 
Suppression. tion against blacks in South ment stand up and take notice. busy with school to notice what 
Torture. Mrica. Indirectly, we support Tom Varnum While divestment will put happens outside God's little 
Murder. murder. Let me repeat myself. many blacks out of work, in the acre in South Bend. Most 
These are daily occurances WE SUPPORT MURDER. Third and long long run it will force the South remain unconcerned with what in the republic of South Mrica. Mrican government to end happens outside their own little These are the tools by which Wait just one second, you apartheid. world. Too many do not realize the government maintains its say. How can we, the self-their tuition money is being system of apartheid, whereby proclaimed leading Catholic Another reason Notre Dame used, in part, to support the tor-the country's five million university in the world, con-refuses to divest is plain and ture and murder of innocent whites hold all the power over done murder? Well, boys and simple: money. Notre Dame people. Until more of the stu­the country's 26 million blacks. girls, follow closely. We invest has very significant financial dent body calls for divestment, For years, the white govern-our tuition money in the Uni-ties with companies doing busi-Notre Dame will continue to ment has used threats and vio-versity. They in turn invest this ness in South Mrica. For in-support the horror in South lence to hold the black majority money in companies who do stance, Coca-Cola, the main Mrica. down. Virtually every major business in South Mrica. These supplier of soft drinks for country in the world has ex-companies pay tax money to University Food Services, has Calling for divestment is not pressed its opposition to apar-the South Mrican government. vast holdings in South Mrica. a liberal thing to do, it's a theid. As one might expect, The South Mrican government Coca-Cola's president is one human thing to do. By not most religions have also uses some of that money to buy, Donald Keough. Keough also divesting, Notre Dame sup­renounced apartheid. you guessed it, guns and bul-miserably. Rev. Sullivan him-happens to be the chairman of ports and contributes to the vio­
But this is nothing new to lets. Some of these bullets hap-self has acknowledged their in-the Board of Trustees at Notre lence and murder in South you. pen to end up in the bodies of effectiveness. Still, Notre Dame, the very committee Mrica. If this upsets you, do innocent South Mrican Dame clings to these prin-which decides how Notre Dame something about it. Learn 
For the past few months, you protesters. Frightening, isn't ciples. The Sullivan Principles invests its money. If Notre more about the situation. Voice have been bombarded with it? Granted, our involvement is may have once been a viable Dame decides to divest, your opinion here, or in other news concerning South Mrica. not first hand, but consider argument against divestment; Keough and Coca-Cola stand to publications on campus. Join I am sure you are also quite this. In the past two years, over however, those days are long lose money. Could this be, per-others in rallying for divest­familiar with the ongoing bat­2,500 people have died in South gone. haps, a little conflict of inter­ment on the Administration tle between Father Oliver Wil­Mrica protesting apartheid. Some believe divestment, on est? Keough's position on di­steps every Friday at 12: 15 liams and Professor Peter It's a pretty safe bet that at a larger scale, will hurt the vestment is compromised by p.m. Move outside of your own Walshe concerning Notre least one of those deaths had blacks more than help them. his affiliation with Coca-Cola. little world and get involved. Dame's investments in South Notre Dame written all over it. These people argue our money So far, the board has continu­Mrica. Like most people, you provides what few jobs the ally ignored the call for divest­If Notre Dame's policies are sick of hearing about Shell, The question which now must blacks have in South Mrica. ment. Apparently, with don't upset you, remember Pagan and all the other names be asked is why Notre Dame True, divestment will increase Keough and the Board of Trus­those three little words. flying around in this rhetorical refuses to divest its holdings in unemployment among blacks. tees, money talks and morals Suppression. battle. Frankly, I'm sick of it South Mrica. Many still believe Every significant black leader walk. Torture. myself. I wish we could just for­we are following the Sullivan in South Mrica acknowledges Murder. get about this annoying little Principles. These principles this. They also know that many Sadly, the final, and perhaps Tom Varnum is a senior En­faculty spat and get on to more were drawn up by Rev. Leon whites will be forced out of most telling reason Notre glish and communications pressing matters. Sullivan over 10 years ago to work by divestment as well, Dame does not divest is student major and is a regular View­
But we can't. promote fair labor practices and this will make the govern-apathy. Most students are too point columnist. 
among companies in South 
What seems to have gotten Mrica. These were based on lost amidst the name-calling the theory that by forcing the and accusations is the fact that companies to adhere to the Sul­Notre Dame continues to invest livan Principles, Notre Dame's money in companies doing money would be helping the business with the South Mrican blacks achieve equality. Unfor­government. In doing this, tunately, the Sullivan Prin­Notre Dame contributes to the ciples have failed in this quest. suppression and discrimina-These principles have failed so 
Viewpoint would like to occasionally highlight quotes from faculty members, students and readers. So if you or someone you know says something intellectually stimulating, brilliantly funny, or clearly controversial, send the quote to Viewpoint, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Correction: The headline of a letter printed April 6 in The Observer was incorrect. Roger Valdiserri, Notre Dame's former sports infor­mation director, is contin­uing as an associate athletic director. 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

ACTUAUY, HIS
PLAt:eSURE 

TULM/3, C1JN/?1710N 15
HE'5... HE'5 

158/3,.. NURSe.
~QUI&T 

HOIAJSIO< IMPROVING. H& THANKS, roN'TMt:N­
Ati<EAIJY 
tvfi&N H&'S 

/SAN/?Y MAYU/8t.U30 /JOCTVR. TIONIT. NOW?\ I \
HOM/3 FOR A WHit£. 
_..,.._....._ 

4-12. 
'Some of us are like wheelbarrows -only useful when pushed, and very 
easily upset.' 
Jack Herbert 

Accent
page a Wednesday, April 12, 1989 
Madonna soars 'Like a Prayer' 
COLLEEN CRONIN 
assistant accent editor 

M 
adonna has finally grown up. Her fourth release, Like A Prayer, is a far cry from her first album, and outshines all its predeces­sors. 
Like A Prayer is a very personal album--Madonna can claim it as completely hers. She drew from many of her own experiences, past and present, for the song ideas. With the revealing lyrics in "Till Death Do Us Part" and "Oh Father" that are in sharp contrast to "Like A Virgin" and "Holiday," Madonna proves to her fans-­and to herself--that she can have a hit album without resorting to trite topics and lyrics. Like A Prayer pos­sesses depth and meaning, and is not simply two sides worth of mindless dance tunes. Madonna abandons the airheaded girlish voice of her first three albums for a more adult sound, though her range is still heard on Like A Prayer. 
"Till Death Do Us Part" is a somewhat autobiographical tune about a rocky marraige. What makes this song so out of the ordinary is the contrast of upbeat music and reveal­ing lyrics, such as "He starts the fight, she starts the lieS" But what is truth when some­thing dieS" He's not in love with her anymore." 
Madonna abandons the airheaded girlish voice of her first three albums for a more 
adult sound . 
Those Madonna fans who are looking for a dance album will be slightly disappointed. Besides the title song, only three or four songs lend themselves to dancing. "Keep It Together" has a slightly black influence and is one of the more upbeat songs on the album. In "Express Your­self," one of Like A Prayer's best cuts, Madonna advocates an attitude exactly opposite that of her hit "Material Girl": "You don't need dia­mond rings or eighteen karat gold! Fancy cars that go very fast you know they never last! What you need is a big strong hand! to lift you to higher ground." 

Only two songs do not hold up to the album's standard. "Act of Contrition" opens with a metal guitar riff that would make Metallica proud. Madonna recites the Act of Contrition amid chaotic music and the Andrae Crouch Choir (a gospel choir). The only way to describe the song is interesting. According to the inner sleeve, the song was produced by "the Powers that Be". The only bad song on Like A Prayer is Madonna's duet with Prince on "Love Song." Though it is on Madonna's album the sound is definitely Prince's and so is quite out of place. The song does not flatter Madonna's voice in the least, and the al­bum would probably be better off without it. 

Another aspect of Like A Prayer that proves Madonna has grown up is the use of instruments in the back­ground music. Her previous albums could easily be reproduced with a syn­thesizer. This album, however, employs pianos and stringed instruments in most of the songs, which makes for a fuller and more complex sound. 
No two songs on the album are alike, which adds to its uniqueness. As with every new album, Madonna again sports a brand new image. She is now hippie-ish and, though she still flaunts her trademark belly button, she seems to be wearing clothes again (more at least than in her "Open Your Heart" video). The album is much different--and much better-­than anything she has done before and definitely deserves a listen. 
A day at the races in Old England 
Alison Cocks 
accent writer 

M 
ost Americans, I've noticed, tend to spend their Saturdays in London jos­tling fellow countrymen and other tourists at the Tower of London, in the shops at Ox­ford Street, or in the lines at the Hard Rock Cafe. 
Along the sides of the track men stood on boxes gesticulating frantically to the bookmakers, who were just as rapidly altering the odds on the boards. 
While I, too, enjoy such amusements, I have dis­covered an alternative form of Saturday entertainment that is infinitely more rewarding. In fact, it surprises me that few other Americans have discovered it, since it involves two pas­times many "Yanks" never tire of: elbowing crowds and spending money. 
I refer to the age-old En­glish practice of spending Sat­urday afternoon at the racetrack. 
BUZZ MC FLATTOP 
Horseracing satisfies the stereotypical Englishman's love of sport, while destroying any American myths about ' "The English Reserve." My own father is an Englishman by birth, and therefore has inherited the love of sport, along with an urge to gamble, that is characteristic of the racegoer. I overheard him planning an excursion to the Newbury racetrack and decided to accompany him in an attempt to understand his enthusiasm. 
As with any sport, the best way to correctly learn about horseracing is from the ex­perts. The virtuosos in this 
field are older men, who are 
well-known at their local pubs 
on the weekends, and at the 
local bookmakers'. They are 
also avid readers of the 
Racing Post, an English 
newspaper devoted solely to 
coverage of horseracing 
events. 
It was with just such a group of experts that I set out early one Saturday morning. Although the first race is never before 12:30, it is nec­essary to make an early start as an 11:00 stop at the nearest pub is a necessity in order to have a quick pint or two of ale and exchange hot betting tips. 

Once this preliminary was dispensed with, we proceeded to the track itself, where I found the adeptness I had ac­quired at fighting my way through crowds of tourists in London quite useful. I was handed a race card, which was a list of the afternoon's races, along with statistics on the horses and jockeys. My companions studied it religi­ously, and though I was con­vinced that Greek was more easily discernable, I began to understand the ins and outs of the statistics at my disposal. I was well on my way to ex­pert status. 
After I had translated my race card and had made what I thought to be an intelligent choice, I followed my com­panions to an area next to the track itself, where I was con­fronted with a scene that resembled the confusion of 
the New York Stock Ex­change . There seemed to be hundreds of bookmakers scat­tered about. Their operations were simple: each had an open carpetbag in front of him, presumably to hold cash, and a large board with his name on it and the going price on each horse. 
Along the sides of the track, men stood on boxes ges­ticulating frantically to the bookmakers, who were just as rapidly altering the odds eys on to victory. To my on the boards. The secret to amazement, it was my horse placing a successful bet that won. From that point on, comes in two parts: first of I was hooked. all, putting money down at My day didn't end as suc­the right time in order to cessfully as it had begun, and have the most favorable odds, I learned that it is necessary and secondly, picking a horse to be prepared to lose a cer­that actually wins. Betting on tain sum of money. It is 


horses, I soon found, is an expensive venture, as most bookmakers will take a mini­mum of £5. Finally, I battled my way to one and placed my fiver on a horse that I was sure would win. 
During the race itself, I watched a metamorphosis that was almost as entertain­ing as the action on the track. The gentlemen I had arrived with were no longer the same reserved, unassuming, tweed clad figures. They had changed into wild men, jump­ing and screaming as they boisterously urged their jock-cause for merriment if anyone manages to break even. Also, as my youngest sister gleefully taught me that while a knowledge of horse flesh is an asset, it is by no means a requirement. At 11, she is already profi­cient at reading her race card, but still has the annoy­ing tendency to pick on the basis of the horse's name or because she likes the jockey. Generally, it is she who fares the best, much to the chagrin of the rest of us who still believe that by employing reason, we can beat the odds. 

Wednesday, April 12, 1989 
The Observer page 9 
Victim testifies as trial continues for OU players 
Associated Press 
NORMAN, Okla. --The vic­tim of an alleged gang rape in an Oklahoma athletic dor­mitory told a court Tuesday she came to believe suspended Oklahoma football player Nigel Clay was one of her as­sailants after discussing the case with prosecutors. 
Clay, Bernard Hall and Glen Bell, Sooner teammates, are accused of first-degree rape in the alleged attack at the dor­mitory on Jan. 21. Hall and Clay face two other charges each of furnishing liquor to a minor. 
The victims has testified that she and a friend had gone to Norman for a double date with two Oklahoma football players, and that said she was attacked after she came out of a bath­room in the athletic dormitory. 
Sherrelyn Lynette Osborn said she and her boyfriend, Larry Medice, were in Medice's room, directly below Clay's, when she heard screams. 
"It was a noise that sounded like a struggle," Osborne said. "I said, 'Nigel must be fighting somebody.' " 
Osborn said the noises got louder, she heard a second scream and that the noises sounded as though someone was falling to the floor. 
"We looked at each other and said, 'It sounds like some girl's getting her butt kicked,"' she said. 
She said Medice went upstairs to investigate. A few moments later, she said, she went to find Medice. 
"He came downstairs and told me some girl had just got raped," Osborn said. 
She said neither she nor Medice called police. They later told the district attorney what they had heard, she said. 
In cross-examination, Os­born told the court she had once described the screams as pos­sibly being screams of passion. 
The 20-year-old Oklahoma City victim spent seven hours on the witness stand Tuesday for the second day of a prelim­inary hearing which is used to determine if the suspended football players should be tried on the charges filed against them in Cleveland County Dis­trict Court. 
Clay's attorney, Joel Barr, began Tuesday's questioning by asking the victim when she came to believe Clay may have been one of her assailants. The woman said she had seen evidence Feb. 9 in the district attorney's office that led her to believe Clay was one of the at­tackers. The prosecutor's of­fice filed charges the next day. 
She said she believed, be­cause of his size, that Clay woud have been the fifth of the six people she said attacked her. An Oklahoma media guide lists Clay as being 6-foot-4 and weighing 274 pounds. 
In earlier testimony, the vic­tim had said the fifth attacker "knocked the breath out of me." 
The woman often struggled with questions from Barr and from Charlie Cox, Bell's attor­ney. 
Cox tried to determine how many men were in Clay's room and how many the woman was able to identify. 
The woman told the court Monday that she could not iden­tify her attackers because the 
-

room was dark. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from t 0 a.m. until 4 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 until3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must
Classifieds 
be prepaid. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
NOTICES  II'--_FO_R_R_ENT_  ___.  Macintosh (128K) For Sale! Includes im­agewriter, numeric keyboard, dust covers and mouse pad. Call Brennan at x1808.  HEY KITTY AND RITA YOU TWO ARE RED HOT BABES!!! LOVE YOU MARY  THIS SAT IS THE IRISH SPRING RUN, WE'RE EXPECTING A REALLY BIG CROWD, THERE'S A 3 MILE AND A 6  MAUREEN PHILBIN Congrats on your job at Circle M!! Hang In there these next 2 weeks!!  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  NICE FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. 287-6389, 683-8889.  BUICK Skyhawk; 1986; 38,000 miles; Ex­cellent condition; $5,500. Call Ranjini at 233-5718  Mommy! Won't be there. f2St. Ed's Hall Charity Carnival f1 Sunday, April 23 LIVE IT, LOVE IT  MILE RUN, FOR MORE THAN THE FEW AND THE PROUD THE RACE STARTS AT 4 PM, A T­SHIRT FOR ALL WHO COMPLETE  You'll get through wHhout a problem. Love, Geno  
NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 233-2342  HOUSE FOR RENT OVER THE SUMMER-NEAR CAMPUS. 232-3616 GRADUATE STUDENT Beautiful room, private bath, laundry, kitchen privileges, security system, 12 mlns. from campus. 272-5989.  "PASSPORT" RADAR DETECTOR RATED # 1 IN WORLD ALL ACCESSORIES INCL PAID OVER $400 X3201 $300 BO MOVING OFF-CAMPUS? Recliner, sofa and other misc. furniture  ZEPFEST Ill 1628 PORTAGE AVE. THIS FRI. (4:00P.M.) AND SAT. (3:00 P.M.) GET THE LED OUT!!! CALCUTIA RAIN  WE'RE NOT EXPECTING THE FOL: LOWING TO COME TO THE RACE AND COMPETE. THERE'S LOU, AND MONK AND JIMMY J AND THE BIG MAN NAMED KAREEM AND IF THEY GET OUT OF JAIL, THE OKLAHOMA FOOTBALL TEAM. SO COME OUT AND JUST PARTICI­ ZOOMA CRUISE II Thursday, April 13 (the one year anniversary!) Campus View 54655, rm.304 (that would be Conway's flat) Come see Langley, Lies & Luna! Be there at 9:00  
Wordprocesslng-Typing 272-8827  MALE GRADUATES Furnished rooms, air, kitchen, fridge, 5 min. N. campus. 272-o&15.  for sale. For more info, call Jana 258-0129 MOVING OFF-CAMPUS? Recliner, sofa and other misc. furniture  Wednesday at BRIDGErs Get Wet Live!-10 p.m.  PATE PUT DOWN YOUR CHIPS AND BEER AND DO SOMETHING GOOD FOR YOURSELF WELL BE LOOKING FOR YOU THIS YEAR.  I need a ride to IU for Little 500 weekend. Can leave anytime, will pay for gas. Please call Kathleen at # 2666.  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. RESUMES, reports, etc. typed on a computer. Call Sue's Secretarial Ser­vice anytime at 299-0063. EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. SKI TEAMSKI CLUB YEAR END BAN­OUETThisThursday,April13. Meet7:30 Bruno's Pizza(next to Bridget's) All mem­bers & trip participants invited!! More In­fo? call 288-5423 LOST/FOUND  Staying for the summer? Need a place to sleep? Sublease our APT!!!!!! TURTLE CREEK! FULLY FURNISHED! call 277­3346. MARION STREET "FRAT HOUSE" FOR RENT 9person oc­cupancy,2baths,bsktbllcrt pool tbl,3rd floor bar&party room 3 car garage,fire place,washer&dryr must see this home!call 289-1233 SUMMER APT-2 BR, Turtle Creek Fully furnished-call 2598 Turtle Creek Apt for sublease during summer months; call Felix 3368 or Matt 3255 710 REX STREET  for sale. For more info, call Jana 258-0129 1986 FORD T-BIRD, 3.8 V-6, white 41,000 miles. Under extended war­ranty (until 57000 miles). $7100 Call 277-5316 evening, 239-7388 day Chevy Impala 1979, Two Door, Air, Auto, 56000 miles, Call Days Chevy Impala 1979, Two Door, Air, Auto, 56000 miles, $ 1500, days 239­6705, evenings 272-9880. PERSONALS hlag  My dearest Phil Kraker: I want you to stroke my blonde hair on the elevator where no one can disturb us, espe­cially Molly. I lusted for you In the car and I dream of the nlte we can con­summate our love. Please take a walk with me on the path of love. 1 want you to father my children. Love you always, Robbie ································································ Once again an apology is due: The ST. ED'S CHARITY CARNIVAL (occurring on April 23 at Stepan) is staunchly against the maiming of small waterfowl. Those responsible for the offensive ad in yesterday's personal section have been sacked  ••••••••IRISH SPRING RUN"••••••• 3 AND 6 MILE RUNS SATURDAY, APRIL 15 RUNS START AT 4 :00 SIGN UP IN THE NVA OFFICE CALL 239-6100 FOR MORE INFO. T-SHIRTS TO BE GIVEN TO THOSE WHO COMPLETE THE RACE Oscar, how's this for a present! think about my offer. Love ya,FDP  To the lovely tall blond girl from Siegfried who eats lunch in NOH wit Sara Liebscher on Thursdays... I think I am in love with you. If you are indeed the one and only Sandra Sencha Botham please keep eating at NOH so I can worship you from afar. love, your secret admirer LONG LIVE THE SWEENEY SISTERS AND FATHER DOODY! TIME IS GROWING SHORT, SO ALL YOU SWEENEY SISTER FANS, ESPE­CIALLY JOHN HOWARTH AND PAT DANAHY, GET YOU AUTOGRAPHS NOW! LOWELL, IN AND IMPROMPTU SPEECHES WILL GO DOWN IN HIS­ 
FOUND: Set of keys in room 2150'Shag. A University of Notre Dame Keychain­room 309. Call # 3688 to claim. I LOST MY MOST PRIZED POSSES­SION A GOLD AND DIAMOND HEART SHAPED NECKLACE. IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL LISA AT 4945 found between NDH and psych bid. on tues 4'5. one goldish 314 loop earring. it  CLEAN HOME, 3-5 BEDROOMS, 2 BATHS 89-90 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL CHUCK GLORE AT 232-1776. WANTED FRUSTRATED? Need Money? Part time, 13K-53K year. Now seeking highly motivated people for  ADOPT: Happily married, professional couple wishes to provide wonderful home, secure future, much love for while newborn. Legal. Expanses paid. Call us collect 212-517-2696. FOREIGN STUDENTS Job-Hunting Guide (Rev. 1989). Send $19.95 for the step-by-step guide. lvysoft, PO Box 241090, Memphis, TN 38124 ..................................................... SCAP .... The Word of the Future!!! Use  The rest of the ST. ED'S CHARITY CAR­NIVAL ads will be completed in an en­tirely different manner. SEE'RALPH.THE'WONiiER..LLAMA.AT THE ST. ED'S CHARITY CARNIVAL, APRIL 23 AT STEPAN CENTER! ··············································•················· BASEBALL FANS TRIP TO OPENING DAY AT COMISKEY! CHISOX VS. A'S TIX & BUS $16 CALL 3593 TK.  HAT TRICK AT NO! In a 3 game sweep of Badin, the Flanner Fornicator displayed his expertise every night.His agressive body checking as­tounded everyone. When ask about the hat trick, he replied "I'm exhausted" The MEPHISTOPHELIAN MEATUSES did it again ...  TORY SO GET ON THE BANDWAGON NOW WITH LIZ & CANDY! John and I need a ride to the Unlv. of Dayton this weekend. Will pay. Call Paul at # 3610. GOPON! Looking for a ride to Miami of Ohio this weekend. Will help with costs. Call Sarah at 1825 .  
doesn't go with my new spring collection so call x4436 to claim. WEDDING RING LOST WEDNESDAY, PROBABLY NEAR HAYES-HEALY. WIDE BAND, SILVER. CALL PROF. SAYRE 239-7124. REWARD LOST: BEIGE GUCCI WALLET,  opportunities in management and sales. I need help now! Call Phil 219-232-4783 CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE WANTED FOR AIRLINE SERVING SOUTH BEND. PLEASE CONTACT J.GEDRA, CONTINENTAL EXPRES STANDARD OIL BLDG, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.  it NOW!! SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND-WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-343-8373.  ········································· If anyone is staying in South Bend for the summer and needs a roommate or would like to get an apartment, call Tony at x1537 I need three Graduation tickets Will pay big bucks. call Chuck at 1173  NOBODY DOES IT LIKE THE MEATUSES!!! BARBARA BILLINGSL YS OINTMENT BARBARA BILLINGSLYS OINTMENT FRIDAY AT McCORMICKS 10pm  RIDE NEEDED­DAYTON,CINN,COLUMBUS AREA­WEEKEND OF 4'.!1 CARRIE 284-5415 THE KINSEY REPORT  
CANVAS  &  PIGSKIN.  LOST  AT  Ithaca NY, Cornell vicinity I need a ride  THE KINSEY REPORT  
SENIOR TWEEN  BAR ON THURSDAY MIDNIGHT AND 1  BE­AM.  I NEED GRADUATION TIX IN A BIG BIG WAY!!  HAPPY BIRTHDAY AILEEN  4'.!7-5'1 call Molly at 4190  Hail Marys and Glorias. 0 Holy St. Jude  THE KINSEY REPORT THE KINSEY REPORT  
PLEASE CALL GARRETT KANEHANN AT 287-5871. REWARD.  CALL DAN # 3495 $$$$$$$$  from your .greatest admirer  SAY NO TO Row BOYcon scHc)Er·i'­BERG TONALITY LIVES!! GOOD LUCK MUSIC GRADS  Apostle & Martyr great in virtue & rich in miracles near kinsman of Jesus Christ, faithful intercessor of all who invoke your  will be playing their style of blues at THEO's on Sat. April 15 at 10 pm. FREE FREE FREE  
LOST: BROWN HIPPO WALLET ON NO CAMPUS WEDNESDAY APR. 5. CALL CHRIS BRACKEY 287-5871. REWARD. LOST: A blue and white Wilson golf umbrella. If you found it in Dr. Kuller's 8:00am econ test on Thurs. Please return it to Tracy x4927. FOUND ONE SET OF KEYS ON SOUTHOUAD BENCH OUTSIDE ALUMNI HALL ON THURS. PLEASE CALL J.C. AT 1001 TO CLAIM.  CLERKS M-F 10pm to 5am;5am to 12m 4.25-tlr M-F 9am to 4pm 4.0011r Great Little Focc Store 12760 US 23 Granger 277-8102 ACT IN TV COMMERCIALS. NO EXPE­RIENCE. ALL AGES. CHILDREN, TEENS, YOUNG ADULTS, FAMILIES, ETC. HIGH PAY TV ADVERTISING. CALL FOR CASTING INFORMATION. CHARM STUDIOS, (313) 542-8400 EXT. 2283. ATIENTION-HIRING! Government  Desmond Tutu is IN STEP NY, NJ, MA, and Ml are IN STEP Little Steven is IN STEP U of California, U of Massachusetts U of Wisconsin, Georgetown, Harvard, and Columbia are IN STEP The Holy Cross Fathers are IN STEP All of the above are IN STEP becaus they support divestment & sanctions in South Africa. Are you IN STEP?? If so, come to a musical celebration with the Anti-Apartheid Network and ALAN FAYE & THE McNEILLS!!!! FRIDAY--6 to 8 PM­· DOME STEPS!!  ITS COMING ..... ANTOSTAL'89 SIGN UPS WEDNESDAY APRIL 12 6-8 P.M. S.U.B. GOLF TOURNEY, AIR BAND, MATIRESS RRACE, TIRE ROLLING, IMPERSONATIONS CHARIOTS, PIL­LOW FIGHTS, TUG OF WAR SLAM DUNK, OBSTACLE COURSE, KISSER, CHALK DRAWING DON'T FEEL LEFT OUT!!! RIGHT TO LIFE  special patronage in time of need, to you I have recourse from the depth of my heart & humbly beg power to come to my assistance. Help me in my present & urgent petition. In return I promise to make your name known and cause you to be invoked. Say 3 Our Fathers, 3 Publication must be promised. St. Jude, pray for us and all who invoke your aid. Amen. This novena has never been known to fail. It must be said for 9 con­secutive days j  ELVIS COSTELLO ELVIS COSTELLO ELVIS COSTELLO ELVIS will ba at Northwestern U $25 TIX include transpo and concert ticket. These will go on sale Fri. April 14 at 3pm at the S.U.B. office. Concert is April 22  
jobs-your area. $17,840-$69,485. Call 1-602'838-8885. Ext. R6262.  JJUNIORS-JUNIORS-JUNIORS­JUNIORS ...  Wed. 7:30 Siegfried Hall Officer Applicants Attend  
LOST: Gold Bracelet in North Dining Haii­Fianner area. It is a promise bracelet from my boyfriend; you can see why it has great sentimental value and is irreplace­able. If you find it or have any information,  GOING TO CHICAGO? I NEED A RIDE THE AFTERNOON OF THURS. APRIL 13 TO O'HARE FOR A 6:00PM FLIGHT...IF YOU CAN HELP CALL ANN AT X4928 ...  Save your money, senior trip sign ups coming soon !!!!! JJUNIORS-JUNIORS-JUNIORS­JUNIORS ....  GREASE April 12 at SMC in Haggar Game room. Shows at 7 & 9. Free Focc. Everyone Welcome.  HAPPY BIRTHDAY ZOOS!!I! BILL JACKOBOtCE IS 21-BEWARE EVERY­ONE, THE CAMPUS IS NO LONGER SAFE. Have a good one WWJ. Mags  
PLEASE call Jennifer at x3590. REWARD. LOST: SET OF KEYS room 213. Call Julie at # 3567.  I have a job, but I need a place to live. Looking for roommate(s) to share costs on apartment in Chicago Call Keith x4197  "Triple A Student Painters" now hiring college and high school students for sum­mer. Gocc wages. Call 291-2156.  See John & Olivia in GREASE at SMC April 12 at 7 & 9. Free Focc and Free show for everyone! Haggar Game Room. Grease is the word.  ENGINEER'S WEEK Treasure Hunt--Clue # 3 Don't look too low. Don't look too hiah. The football is yours  
LOST:a gold rope necklace on Fri 47. If found PLEASE call x1326. LOST: GOLD WEDDING RING SOME­WHERE BETWEEN 01 AND DILLON. IT HAS DEEP SENTIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE CALL 283-2447 IF FOUND. WILL PAY A REWARD OF CASH OR OTHER SERVICES SHALL BE REN­DERED. LOST: Gray Ladies SWATCH Sat. Lost  FOR SALE ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT HOMES from $1 (U-repalr). Delinquent tax property. Repossessions. Call 1-602­838-8885 Ext. GH-6262. ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. Fords, Mer­ Need ride to IU for Little 500 Can leave 4119 or 4'.!0 X4340 NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP PLAQUES ORDER FORMS AVAILABLE MON-WED DINING HALLS & SENIOR CLASS OFFICE  SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES APPLICATIONS FOR NEXT YEAR CABINET POSTITIONS DUE FRIDAYI! SOPHOMORES SSOPHOMORES DONNA, Welcome Back to beautiful South Bend! Now, what time's dinner?  If you have a keen eye. Q:Where would you find 5 future attorneys running around in their underwear with a basketball? A:Come to Lyoris' courts at 6:15 today and CHECK OUR BRIEFS! HOW WELL DO YOU KNOW YOUR ROOMMATE? Find out and have some fun this THURS 7PM at PW's annual  Suds, Don't you remember you once knew a girl who loved you more than the world. Is life always like this brother? Gocc for some but bad for the other. I must put you behind me tonight 'cause you belong to the lights. Golden lights displaying your name, golden lights it's a terrile shame, but oh my darling WHY DID YOU CHANGE? -The Smiths  - 
on or near South Quad. If found please call 284-5504.  cedes Corvettes, Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1-602-838-8885 Ext. A­6262.  EYE CONTACT BRAND NAME LENSES START AT 19.95 EA. 1-800­255-2020.  and did you bring us back a flamingo? Bead, Garp and Bandit.  ROOMMATE GAME!!! (who will be the NEW .... BRALESS WONDER???)  SMILE I LOVE YOU.  -C  

... 


,­
1 
I 

I I I 
I Sports Wednesday 
I Wednesday. April 
I page 10 
I 
Sports Lists 

-
SOURCE: Television Bureau of Advertising 
Baseball 
National League American League East East 
w L Pet. GB w L Pet. Chicago 4 2 .667 Cleveland 4 2 .667 Philadelphia 4 2 .667 Baltimore 3 3 .500 Montreal 4 3 .571 .5 Toronto 3 4 .429 St. Louis 2 2 .500 1 Milwaukee 2 3 .400 New York 2 3 .400 1.5 Boston 2 4 .333 Pittsburgh 1 5 .167 3 Detroit 1 3 .250 
West New York 1 6 .143 
West Cincinnati 4 2 .667 San Diego 4 3 .571 .5 Texas 5 1 .833 Atlanta 3 3 .500 1 Oakland 5 2 .714 San Francisco 3 3 .500 1 Kansas City 5 2 .714 Los Angeles 3 3 .500 1 Minnesota 4 2 .667 Houston 2 5 .286 2.5 Chicago 4 3 .571 
Wednesday's Games California 3 4 .429 Cincinnati at Houston Seattle 2 5 .286 Atlanta at San Diego Wsdnesday's Games St. Louis at Chicago Cleveland at Boston Montreal at Philadelphia Minnesota at Detroit Los Angeles at San Francisco Texas at Milwaukee 
Toronto at New York 
Baltimore at Kansas City 
Oakland at California 
Chicago at Seattle 

Irish Baseball 
Through Monday BATTER GP AB R H 2B 3B HR RBI BA Dan Pe~ier, OF 26 98 29 42 13 1 4 27 .429 James Sass, OF 26 80 15 28 4 2 2 31 .350 Jason Martinez, DH 13 24 4 8 3 0 1 5 .333 Pat Pesavento, SS 26 92 36 2B 3 0 0 8 .304 Frank Jacobs, DH 25 69 14 20 3 1 2 17 .290 
Ed Lund, C 26 82 19 23 4 0 3 24 .280 Mike Moshier, 2B 25 61 9 17 1 0 0 11 .279 Joe Binkiewicz, 1 B 24 62 12 17 7 0 0 16 .274 Paul Lange, DH 7 4 3 1 0 0 0 3 .250 Mike Coss, 3B 24 65 12 16 2 0 0 4 .246 
..231Pat Eilers, OF 24 39 7 9 3 0 0 5 

Craig Counsell. OF 21 49 15 11 2 0 0 12 .224 Cory Mee, 2B 15 22 5 4 0 0 0 1 .182 Mike Rotkis, DH 13 12 1 2 0 0 0 1 .167 Tom Allen, OF 12 13 1 1 0 0 0 2 .077 
Jon Baker 3 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 Tom Murray 4 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 .000 Matt Krall, DH 10 10 1 Q 0 0 0 1 .000 Mike Rooney 5 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 .000 
NOTRE DAME 26 786 186 227 45 4 12 168 .289 
OPPONENTS 26 769 109 210 41 6 5 93 .273 
Left on base: Notre Dame 204, Opponents 180 
PITCHER GP GS IP H BB so ER W·L ERA Brian Piotrowicz 9 8 46.3 43 19 30 10 4-2 1.94 Mike Coffey 14 0 28.0 25 14 23 8 3-0 2.57 Tom Gulka 4 0 6.0 10 3 2 2 0-0 3.00 Joe Binkiewicz 3 0 2.3 6 0 1 1 0-0 3.86 Erik Madsen 10 8 46.7 53 16 33 20 5-2 3.86 Mike Passilla 6 5 22.3 23 7 8 10 3-1 4.03 Brian Conway 6 4 24.0 19 13 13 11 3-1 4.13 Tony Livorsi 11 0 17.3 18 5 7 8 1-0 4.15 Dan Marzec 3 1 9.0 13 5 6 7 1-0 7.00 
NOTRE DAME 26 26 202.0 210 82 123 n 20-6 3.43 
Saves: Notre Dame 7 (Coffey 5, Gulka, Livorsi), Opponents 0 
... 
College Baseball 
top 25 college baseball The top 25 college baseball teams in the Col-GB legiate BasebaiVESPN poll, with first-place votes in parentheses, this season's records, total points and
1 
previous week rankings. Notre Dame opponents are
1.5 
italicized. 
1.5 
2 
1. 
Texas A&M 38-1

2. 
Mississippi State 26-5

3. 
Louisiana State 34-4 

4. 
Arizona State 32-10 5. Arkansas 33-4 


2 
3.5 
6. Wichita State 34-5
.5 
7. Clemson 29-3
.5 
8. Florida 29-9
1 
9. Oklahoma State 27-7
1.5 
10. Texas 36-10
2.5 
11. Arizona 29-12-1
3.5 
12. 
Fresno State 27-12 

13. 
Florida State 32-10 


14. Miami 26-12 
15. 
Long Beach State 32-7 

16. 
Southern Cal 31-15 

17. 
San Jose St. 31-7 

18. 
Brigham Young 22-10 19. Pepperdine 25-12-1 


20. South Florida 31-11 21. UNLV 27-10 
22. Michigan 20-7 23. Oklahoma 22-9 24. California 27-14 
25. Fullerton State 23-13 
Sports Calendar 
Home games in CAPS 
Wednesday 
Baseball at Illinois-Chicago (2) Softball at Bethel (2) Lacrosse at Lake Forest 
Thursday Baseball vs. BUTLER (2) Softball at Valparaiso 
Friday Men's tennis at MCC Championship in St. Louis Men's golf at Robert Kepler Invitational in Columbus, Ohio 
Saturday 
Softball vs. LAKE COUNTY (2) Women's tennis vs. MICHIGAN Baseball at Dayton (2) 
Lacrosse at Denison Men's track at Stanford Invitational Women's track at Hillsdale Domino Relays Women's golf at Lady Buckeye Invitational Men's golf at Kepler Invitational Men's tennis at MCC Championship 
Sunday Baseball at Dayton (2) Women's golf at Lady Buckeye Invitational Men's golf at Kepler Invitational Men's tennis at MCC tournament 
Monday Softball at Illinois-Chicago (2) 
Tuesday Women's tennis at Northwestern 
NBA Standings 
y-New York Philadelphia Boston Washington New Jersey Charlotte 
y-Detroit y-Cieveland y-Milwaukee y-Atlanta y-Chicago 
Indiana 
y-Utah y-Denver Houston Dallas San Antonio Miami 
y-L.A. Lakers  51  24  .680  
y-Phoenix  49  26  .653  2  
y-Golden State  42  33  .560  9  
y-Seattle  41  34  .547  10  
Portland  36  39  .480  15  
Sacramento  23  52  .307  28  
L.A. Clippers  18  57  .240  33  
y-clinched playoff berth  

Wednesday's Games Milwaukee at Washington Cleveland at Detroit Charlotte at New York Phoenix at Dallas 
L.A. Lakers at San Antonio Denver at Utah 
Scoreboard 
·Results for Apr. 5-Apr. 11 
Baseball (20-6) Notre Dame 13, Illinois-Chicago 2 Illinois-Chicago 5, Notre Dame 0 Notre Dame 3, Xavier 2 Notre Dame 12, Xavier 3 Notre Dame 12, Xavier 1 Notre Dame 6, Xavier 3 
Lacrosse (5·3) Notre Dame 14, Kenyon 7 
Softball (14-13) Notre Dame placed third in the MCC tourn­ament in Indianapolis with a 3-2 record: Notre Dame 8, Butler 7 Detroit 1 , Notre Dame 0 Notre Dame 4, Loyola 3 Notre Dame 2, Dayton 0 St. Louis 3, Notre Dame 1 
Women's golf Notre Dame finished 14th out of 15 teams at the lndtana Invitational with a 747 mark for the 36-hole tournament. 
Men's golf Notre Dame placed second out of a 12-team field at the Indianapolis Invitational. 
Women's track Notre Dame finished in seventh place at the Manchester Relays with a total of seven points. 
Women's tennis (14-4) Notre Dame 6, Ohio State 3 Notre Dame 5, Michigan State 4 
S.B. White Sox 
South Bend White Sox Schedule 
April April 10-13, Rockford Expos April 14-17, Madison Muskies April 18-19, Wausau Timbers April 20-23, at Cedar Rapids Reds April 24-27, Waterloo Diamonds April 28-May 1, Appleton Foxes 
May May 2-3, at Madison Muskies May 4-7, at Beloit Brewers May 8-9, at Wausau Timbers May 1D-11, at Appleton Foxes May 12-13, Belo~ Brewers 


Midwest League 
Northern Division 

w L Pet.  GB  
Beloit 1 0 1.000  
Kenosha 1 0 1.000  
Madison 1 1 .500  .5  
Appleton 0 0 .000  .5  
Wausau 0 0 .000  .5  
Rockford 0 1 .0  1  
South Bend Sox 0 1 .0  
Southern Division  
Peoria 3 0 1.000  
Wate~oo 1 0 1.000  
Quad City 0 1.000  1  
Clinton 1 1 .500  1.5  
Burlington 0 1 .0  2  
C. Rapids 0 1 .0  2  
Springfield 0 3 .0  3  
Wednesday's Games  
Rockford at South Bend  
Kenosha at Appleton  
Beloit at Wausau  
Waterloo at Burlington  
Quad City at Cedar Rapids  
Clinton at Peoria  
Madison at Springfield  
Affiliations: South Bend (White  
Sox), Beloit (Brewers), Kenosha  
(Twins), Madison (Athletics),  
Appleton (Royals), Wausau (Mariners),  
Rockford (Expos), Peoria (Cubs),  
Waterloo (Orioles-Padres). Quad  
, Clinton (Giants),  
Cedar Rapids  
Patrick Division  
Washington vs. Philadelphia  
Series tied 2·2  
Game 1: Washington 3, Philadelphia 2  
Game 2: Philadelphia 3, Washington 2  
Game 3: Washington 4, Philadelphia 3 (OT)  
Game 4: Philadelphia 5, Washington 2  
Tuesday: Philadelphia at Washington  
Thursday: Washington at Philadelphia  
x-Saturday: Philadelphia at Washington  
Pittsburgh vs. N.Y. Rangers  
Pittsburgh wins series 4-0  
Game 1: Pittsburgh 3, Rangers 1  
Game 2: Pittsburgh 7, Rangers 4  
Game 3: Pittsburgh, Rangers 3  
Game 4: Pittsburgh 4, Rangers 3  
Adams Division  
Montreal vs. Hartford  
Montreal wins series 4-{1  
Game 1: Montreal 6, Harttord 2  
Game 2: Montreal 3, Hartford 2  
Game 3: Montreal 5, Hartford 4 (OT)  
Game 4: Montreal 4, Hartford 3 (OT)  
Boston vs. Buffalo  
Boston leads series 3-1  
Game 1: Buffalo 6, Boston 0  
Game 2: Boston 5, Buffalo 3  
Game 3: Boston 4, Buffalo 2  
Game 4: Boston 3, Buffalo 2  
Tuesday: Buffalo at Boston  
x-Thursday: Boston at Buffalo  
x-Saturday: Buffalo at Boston  
Norris Division  
Detroit vs. Chicago  
Chicago leads series 3-1  
Game 1: Detro~ 3, Chicago 2  
Game 2: Chicago 5, Detroit 4 (OT)  
Game 3: Chicago 4, Detroit 2  
Game 4: Chicago 3, Detroit 2  
Tuesday: Chicago at Detro~  
x-Thursday: Detroit at Chicago  
x-Saturday: Chicago at Detroit  
St. Louis vs. Minnesota  
St. Louis leads series 3-1  
Game 1: St. Louis 4, Minnesota 3  
Game 2: St. Louis 4. Minnesota 3 (OT)  
Game 3: St. Louis 5, Minnesota 3  
Game 4: Minnesota 5, St. Louis 4  
Tuesday: Minnesota at St. Louis  
x-Thursday: St. Louis at Minnesota  
x-Saturday: Minnesota at St. Louis  
Smythe Division  
Calgary vs. Vancouver  
Series tied 2-2  
Game 1: Vancouver 4, Calgary 3  
Game 2: Calgary 5, Vancouver 2  
Game 3: Calgary 4, Vancouver 0  
Game 4: Vancouver 5, Calgary 3  
Tuesday: Vancouver at Calgary  
Thursday: Calgary at Vancouver  
x-Saturday: Vancouver at Calgary  
Los Angeles vs. Edmonton  
Edmonton leads series 3-1  
Game 1: Edmonton 4, L.A. 3  
Game 2: L.A. 5, Edmonton 2  
Game 3: Edmonton 4, L.A. 0  
Game 4: Edmonton 4, L.A. 3  
Tuesday: Edmonton at L.A.  
x-Thursday: L.A. at Edmonton  
x-Saturday: Edmonton at L.A.  

499 597 496 493 492 487 484 479 476 
475 
468 487 463 
460 
459 453 450 449 445 441 436 432 429 423 418 
1 4 2 5 6 3 10 9 7 
8 
12 13 15 
11 
14 16 19 24 
20 21 
22 17 23 Eastern Conference 
Atlantic Division w L 49 27 42 33 39 36 37 39 25 51 17 58 
Central Division 57 18 54 21 46 28 47 29 45 30 24 51 
Western Conference Midwest Division w L 46 29 42 33 40 34 34 42 21 54 14 61 
Pacific Division 
Pet. .645 .560 .520 .487 .329 .227 
.760 .720 .622 .618 
.600 
.320 
Pet. .613 
.560 
.541 .447 .280 .187 
GB 
6.5 9.5 12 24 31.5 
3 10.5 10.5 12 33 
GB 
4 5.5 12.5 25 32 

--~---~--~-~-~-----------------, 
Wednesday, April 12, 1989 The Observer page 11 
-
Cubs extend streak to four with 5-4 win over Cardinals 
Associated Press 

Kirby Puckett drove in three runs with a double and a homer in Min­nesota's 14-0 victory over Detroit Tuesday afternoon. 
t1 YOU SURE LOOK CUTE IN 
YOUR BIRTHDAY SUIT P 
HAPPY 26TH 
CAROLYN, JOSEPH & RICK 
&3J3n-ups Co(' &ll of l?hese C5venis:. 
~ednesday, &pril12> ~-8pmaf.§.U.B. 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO --Jerome Walton homered in the 
first inning and scored the tie-breaking run in 
the eighth when Mark Grace grounded into a 
fielder's choice, giving the Chicago Cubs a 5-4 
victory Tuesday over the St. Louis Cardinals. 
It was the Cubs fourth straight victory. 
Loser Jose DeLeon, 1-1, walked Walton and 
Mitch Webster to open the eighth. The two run­
ners pulled off a double steal. Todd Worrell 
relieved DeLeon and got Ryne Sandberg to foul 
out. Worrell then walked Andre Dawson inten­
tionally, filling the bases. 
Twins 14, Tigers 0 

DETROIT --Carmen Castillo hit a grand slam 
in Minnesota's eight-run eighth inning, and 
Kirby Puckett drove in three runs Tuesday with 
a double and homer, leading the Twins to their 
12th straight victory over Detroit, 14-0. 
Allan Anderson worked seven innings for the 
Twins, allowing seven hits as he beat the Tigers 
for the fourth straight time. Rookies German 
Gonzalez and Gary Wayne completed the 
shutout with an inning apiece in relief. Gonzalez 
struck out all three batters he faced, and Wayne 
gave up one hit in the ninth. 
Astros 5, Reds 3 

HOUSTON --Ken Caminiti's two-run single highlighted a four-run, first inning and his field­ing helped thwart a seventh-inning Cincinnati rally, leading the Houston Astros to a 5-3 victory over the Reds Tuesday night. 
Pirates 4, Mets 3 

PITTSBURGH --Bobby Bonilla singled home the winning run off reliever Randy Myers with two outs in the 11th inning as the Pittsburgh Pirates won their home opener Tuesday night, beating the New York Mets 4-3. 
Phillies 6, Expos 2 
PHILADELPHIA --Steve Ontiveros pitched seven shutout innings and drove in three runs with a bases-loaded double in a five-run, fourth inning as the Philadelphia Phillies beat the Montreal Expos 6-2 Tuesday night. 
Ontiveros, who wa: on the disabled list most of last season with Oakland, yielded five hits. He underwent elbow surgery during the winter after leaving the A's to become a free agent. 
Royals 6, Orioles 5 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. --Bo Jackson and George Brett hit two-run homers and Danny Tartabull had a solo shot as the Kansas City Royals beat Baltimore 6-5 Tuesday night for their 15th con­secutive victory over the Orioles. 
Angels 7, Athletics 1 
ANAHEIM --Bert Blyleven hurled a four­hitter for his first victory with California as the Angels beat the Oakland Athletics 7-1 Tuesday night. 
Blyleven, 1-0, walked two and struck out five. The 38-year-old right-hander, who is tied with Steve Carlton and Nolan Ryan on the all-time list with 55 shutouts, blanked the A's on two hits until the ninth. They scored on Stan Javier's single, Dave Parker's double and Carney Lansford's grounder. 
Padres 3, Braves 2 
SAN DIEGO --Ed Whitson allowed five hits 
in 7 2-3 innings and had a run-scoring single as 
the San Diego Padres beat the Atlanta Braves 
3-2 Tuesday night. 

Tony Gwynn hit his second homer in the fifth 
inning. 

Whitson, 2-0, struck out eight and walked 
three. 

Sweep 
continued from page 16 
With the score tied 2-2 in the bottom of the sixth, outfielder Marie Liddy drove in the game winning run off St. Mary's pitcher Kim Benjamin, who started and lost. 
Amy Folsom and Kathryn Vernetti also collected RBis for the Irish. 
"We struggled a bit in the second game," said Boulac. "We just weren't hitting the 
~rTRESS ~Ce: 
@o}FCUJouRNe\ @ANoEillAC.E 
(311<.~ ~ACE:" 
~SseR...? &,~(3AND {]),~ow ~GHT$ 
@HAR.I()Ts 

QuGI\!fJAR.. 
§LAM{!)UNK GaYc~@ouRsE Q.RE(;lOLlu,~G 
@HALK8AAWtNG 
0MPERSoNA1ioMS 
ball like we were in the first game but we came back in the bottom of the sixth and did the things we had to do." 
Notre Dame lacked the inten­sity in game two that the players had in game one, ac­cording to Boulac, but the Irish will take the wins anyway. 
"We didn't go after them like we should have, but our girls didn't want to lose," Bouulac noted. "It's a big rivalry." 
The Irish will try to add an­other win to their record when they play Bethel College in Mis­hawaka today at 3:30p.m. 
$2~ 
$24;. 

$245.00 Paris $259.00 Scheduied carriers! Book anytrme! Above fares V2 Round-lrip from Chicago. Some restrictions apply. On-the-spot railpasses, lnt'l Student /.D., youth hostel passes, work and study abroad programs. FREE Student Travel Catalog. 
-
-
Wednesday, April 12, 1989
page 12 The Observer 

Schramm may leave Dallas 
Associated Press Schramm didn't know Jones beginning he didn't think he 
gave new coach Jimmy Johnson could handle a day-to-day 
IRVING, Texas --Tex a 10-year contract until caretaker role after nearly Schramm is being cut out of reporters told him. three decades of calling the key decisions made by the new Schramm wasn't asked to shots. , owner of the Dallas Cowboys join a meeting last weekend be­"That's not my style," he and may not be in the club's tween Jones, Johnson, quarter­said. front office much longer. back prospect Troy Aikman of Schramm won't admit he has 
Schramm, the glue that held UCLA and his agent, Leigh made a decision but he talks as together one of the NFL's most Steinberg. if he has decided to do someth­successful franchises, is con­Schramm did not attend a ing other than be a figurehead sidering the job as commis­recent beer and barbecue ses­for the Cowboys. sioner of the new international sion that Johnson and Jones Schramm Tuesday was league that will develop talent held for the players. Jones in­eager to reminisce about his for the NFL. vited some 100 business days with the Cowboys. 
"I'm keeping my options friends. open," he said Tuesday. Asked about being left out in Asked his proudest moment 
However, Schramm, presi­the decision-making, Schramm with the team, Schramm said dent and general manager said, "That's the perogative of "both winning and reaching the since the club's founding, has the new owner. He said from highest pinnacle of popularity been on the outside since Jerry the beginning he was going to at the same time. This fran­Jones purchased the Cowboys be involved in everything from chise accomplished what few from Bum Bright on Feb. 25. socks to jockstraps. He has." franchises have accom­
For example: Schramm also said from the plished." 
Soviet 
continued from page 16 
peted there before have been all-star collections or interna­tional squads. 
USA Wrestling, the national governing body for wrestling, asked the Notre Dame team if it wanted to make the landmark tour. 
"Notre Dame's a good name, a high-profile name worldwide," said McCann. "We've had a lot of kids do well at the international level in junior competitions." 

Freshmen Tim Anderson and Curt Engler, who both graduated from Dowling High School in Peru, Iowa, each competed in the Junior Olym­pics last year. Engler won an individual championship, while Anderson placed second in his weight division. 
Durso and junior Andy Radenbaugh each have won Junior National champion­ships, and freshman Marcus Gowens placed second in a Junior National competition. 
With recruiting season in full swing the last few weeks, the Notre Dame wrestlers have not had much actual mat time. They will have to adjust to the international form of wres­tling, which differs from the collegiate style. 
"The international style is more wrestling on your feet with more emphasis on 

irish 

takedowns as compared to col­lege, where there's a lot of mat wrestling," said Durso. "The international's a lot more wide open, and you're allowed to take more chances." 
McCann does not know ex­actly which wrestlers his team will face in the three dual meets, though he has heard theories about how the Soviets might arrange the lineups. 
''The Russians will make it as close as possible as long as they win," said McCann. "I've heard that what they might do is see us wrestle and figure out how they're going to beat us, yet make it look like a close match." 
The United States just defeated the Soviet Union 19-18 in a World Cup dual match. But according to McCann, the So­viet Union's large number of wrestlers makes it a bigger power in the sport than the United States. 
"We can match up our elite with their elite," said the five­year Irish coach, "but they have so much more depth. A lot of times, you don't know if they're bringing their best people because they have so much depth. 
"We're better in some areas," continued McCann. "Our youth programs are much better. We have intense high school and college pro­grams. They've got them but don't stress them as much." 
McCann stresses that the trip 
I 
sprtng 

this saturday, april 15 
4 pm 

rain or shine, we'll be there 
3 and 6 mile routes wear green and get a buck back! $4.00 in advance $5.00 day-of prizes to the men's and women's hall with the most participants!!! 
SPONSORED BY NVA 

will be as much a learning ex­
perience for the coaching staff 
as for the wrestlers. 
"We want to learn their tech­
niques and training methods/' 
said McCann. "We'll observe a 
lot of the things they're doing 
over there. They are the best 
in the world." 
The Notre Dame men's and 
women's soccer teams held 
their awards banquet last 
weekend, where they an­
nounced juniors Dave Augus­
tyn and Rolfe Behrje as cap­
tains of next season's men's 
team and juniors K.T. Sullivan 
and Joy Sisolak as captains of 
the women's team. 
In awards for the 1988 men's 
team, senior Randy Morris 
took most valuable player 
honors, sophomore Mark 
Crowe was cited as the most 
improved player, senior John 
Guignon won the most dedi­
cated award and senior Pat 
Murphy won the St. Joe Valley 
Scholar/Athlete award. 
In awards for the 1988 wo­men's team, freshman Susie Zilvitis won the most valuable player award, freshman Deb Skahan was named the most improved player, Sullivan won the most dedicated honor and senior Susan Haling won the St. Joe Valley Student/Athlete award. 
runs 

-

Irish 
continued from page 16 

talented bunch and they'll be the first one to tell you that, but they throw strikes. Our team ERA just goes to show that throwing the ball 90 miles an hour doesn't necessarily get people out." 
At Xavier, the Irish got three wins from their four starters. In Sunday's first game, senior Mike Passilla went six innings to earn the victory, allowing one earned run. In the second game, senior Mike Coffey went 3 1-3 innings of scoreless relief to pick up his third win. In that time, Coffey walked one and struck out five. 
On Monday, freshman Brian Conway shut out Xavier for six innings to earn the win, allow­ing only three hits. In the second game, senior Erik Mad­sen earned his team-leading fifth win by pitching a complete game in the 6-3 victory. 
The hitting remained fairly consistent over the four games as well. In the Sunday doubleheader, the Irish pounded out 15 runs on 19 hits, and in the Monday doubleheader did not lose a step by scoring 18 runs on 24 hits. 
Juniors Dan Peltier and Ed Lund both enjoyed outstanding weekends, with Peltier raising his team-leading average to .429 and Lund hitting a home run and picking up seven RBI. Both picked up two game­winning RBI. 
Peltier was 8-for-15 over the four games with five RBI, in­cluding three doubles. In his last six games, Peltier has raised his average 42 points. 
Lund enjoyed a near-perfect game on Sunday in the 12-3 vic­tory. In the game, he was 2-for­2 with a home run and four RBI, including three walks. 
Freshman Frank Jacobs, who had a 5-for-13 weekend, has raised his batting average from .212 to .290 in his last six games. 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 
The Power and the Glory 
by Dennis Cannan and Pierre Bost Adapted from the novel by Graham Greene 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
Setting and Lighting designed by Willard Neuert Costumes designed by Richard E. Donnelly 
Washington Hall 
Wednesday, April19-8:10pm Thursday, April 20-8:10pm Friday, April21 -8:10pm Saturday, April22-8:10pm Sunday, April 23-3:10pm 
Main Floor $6, Balcony $5 *Students/Senior Citizens $4 *(Wed., Thurs., Sun. only) 
Tickets are available at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office Weekdays, 12:15pm to 6pm 
MasterCard !Visa orders call 239-5957 


--~----­
--------~~~~--~-~~-~-------------------~~~---~-~------------..., 
Wednesday, April 12, 1989 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Maria Perez, an assistant coach at Rutgers last year, has been named assistant volleyball coach at Notre Dame. Perez replaces Patti Hagemeyer, who was named the head volleyball coach at Southern Illinois University last month. 
-The Observer 
Squash Tournament sign-ups will be Thursday, April 13, at 5 p.m. in the NVA office for the tourney to be held Friday, April14 through Sunday, April16. -The Ob­server 
Mud Volleyball workers and scorekeepers are needed. Call Ed Brooks at x3271 for more information. 
-The Observer 
An informational meeting for anyone interested in joining the windsurfing club will be held tonight at 7 p.m., in Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune. 1990 officers will be chosen. call Carter Thomas at 289-1233 for more information. -The Observer 
The Crew Team will hold a mandatory meeting tonight at 7:30p.m. in 127 Niewland Science. -The Observer 
Kevin Pendergast, whose 40 goals and 20 assists helped Simsbury (Conn.) High's soccer team to a 16-3 record last season, has signed a letter of intent to attend Notre Dame. Pendergast, a Parade All-American and Gatorade New England Player of the Year, had 84 goals and 46 assists in his four-year career. -The Observer 
Open soccer tournament entry deadline is today. Play begins Saturday, April 15. Turn in rosters with $10 fee at the NVA office. -The Observer 
In NHL Playoff action Tuesday, Philadelphia downed Washington 8-5 to take a 3-2 lead in the series, Boston defeated Buffalo 4-1 to win the series 4-1 and Detroit pulled to 3-2 in the series with a 6-4 win. 
TliE STORY OF THE IRISH CLADDAGH 
The Irish Claddagh story began in the 16th Century 
when Richard Joyce, a native of Galway was captured 
by Algerian Cosairs while on his way to the West Indies. 
He was sold as a slave to a wealthy Moorish Goldsmith 
who trained him In the craft. His master took a great 
liking to him and offered him his freedom which Richard 
very happily accepted. 

He returned to his native county and settled down in the 
ancient village of Claddagh, just outside Galway city, 
where he designed and made the first Claddagh. 
The design of the Irish Claddagh is simple, but 
yet unique: The Hand Signifies Friendship, The Crown Loyalty, And The Heart Love. 
The Irish Claddagh, because of its tradition and design grows daily in popularity and is being used internationally as a token.• of great friendship and love. 
Call in & see our Fine Collection of Claddagh Jewelry at University Park Mall (Opposite MidLady Shop) 
Tel 272·6757 

Spring H1ll Mall Harlem-lrv•ng Plaza W Dundee. IL 60118 · · ·"'" ?.ul. "kkdu-u Ch•cago IL 
The Observer 
page 13 

Olson may jumo to Kentuckv 
Arizona mentor to meet with UK officials later this week 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. --Lute Ol­son appears to be the No.1 can­didate for Kentucky's vacant basketball coaching job if the price is right. 
Olson, head coach at Arizona, is expected to meet with Kentucky athletics direc­tor C.M. newton this week to discuss the details of the job. 
"Hopefully, it'll work into that," Newton said of Olson be­coming the school's prime can­didate to replace Eddie Sutton, who left under fire. "Obviously we're interested and obviously he's interested." 
Olson and Newton were ex­pected to meet in Lexington on Thursday. 
Newton, however, said Mon­day night that he had not of­fered the post to Olson. 
"We've still got some more 
Knight now his wife's caddy 
Associated Press year career, the last 13 in the major leagues. 
The caddy shouldering the "I know a lot of people tease golf bag looks familiar, but out him about carrying my bag, of place. but he's my best friend, not just 
Shouldn't he be wearing a my husband," said Lopez, an baseball uniform, and swing­LPGA hall of Farner. "I want ing a bat? him here. 
For 18 years, until this "With Ray out here, I can spring, he did. play a lot of tournaments and 
Ray Knight, MVP of the 1986 try to become the leading World Series, is caddying for money winner again." his wife, Nancy Lopez, on the "I'm leaving the game LPGA tour. feeling I can still play," the 33­
"It's something I've always year-old former infielder said. wanted to do. I can be with her "But I don't want to be a part­out here and the family more. time player. I'm not good at I've enjoyed it," said Knight, that. I've always been an in­recently retired from an 18-tense player, keyed up. 
YOU'VE COME A LONG WAY, BETH! 
YES, YOU'RE FINALLY 21! 
WE LOVE YOU, 
JACKIE SlOB HAN & JULIE 
ATTENTION ENGINEERS -­ENGINEER'S WEEK EVENTS 
WEDNESDAY SPECIAL DINING HALL LUNCH 
6:30 PM PINEWOOD DERBY 7-9 PM PIZZA PARTY /DATING GAME* 
* E.G. STUDENT CENTER 
things to talk about," Newton said. 
Cedric Dempsey, University of Arizona athletic director, said he gave Kentucky officials permission to talk with Olson but didn't know of the coach's intentions. 
"I would hope we could bring all these rumors to a head and resolve what needs to be re­solved," Dempsey said. 
Dempsey said that before the Olson-Kentucky linkup, he had recommended that Olson's contract be extended three years and his base salary be increased, and that the Board of Regents had approved the measure. 
The current contract has two years to go, meaning Olson would have a five-year con­tract at Arizona. The Arizona Republic in Phoenix said Ol­son's current base salary is believed to be between around $85,000 to $95,000 with a total package reported to be worth between $400,000 and $500,000. 
The Republic also reported that one unidentified source said the Kentucky package for Olson would be more than $750,000 each season. 
Olson, 54, was offered the Kentucky job in 1985 but turned it down. 
He has compiled a 137-55 record in six seasons at Arizona. 
Olson also has said the sanc­tions Kentucky could receive from the NCAA committee on Infractions as a result of 18 al­leged violations of NCAA rules could influence his decision. University officials are sched­uled to meet with the NCAA committee on Infractions on April22. 
"I can't sit and wait. The more I sat on the bench last year, the more I thought about retiring. I think I made the right decision, but it's going to take awhile to get used to it. 
"I've never lost that enthus­iasm, never lost that joy," said Knight, who, in addition to his World Series MVP year with the New York Mets, had .300 seasons earlier with Houston and Cincinnati. 
In past years, Lopez adjusted her tour schedule so she and her husband could spend time together. But when Knight was traded from Baltimore to Detroit last year in spring training, it threw their plans into disarray. 
"Nancy's schedule was already set according to Bal­timore's schedule," Knight said. "It didn't match with Detroit's schedule and we wound up seeing each other only five weeks during the en­tire summer." 
Knight said his new job, "is not as easy as it looks." 
"He knows what he's doing out there," said Lopez, who will be among the favorites in the $450,000 Ai Star-Centinela Hospital Classic that starts Friday at Rancho Park in Los Angeles. 
"He's good for my game. He gives me the yardage and keeps me from making mental mistakes." 
So far there have been ·vir­tually no family spats on the course. 
But, recalling the Kemper Open earlier this year, Knight said, "We had a disagreement with club selection; I thought she should use a 4-iron to the green and she wanted to hit a 5-iron." 
Lopez proceeded to hit the 5­iron short and into the water. 
"I ended up saying, 'See. vou never listen to me. If you don't, why ask me?' It was a stupid statement for me to make, very stupid," Knight said. 
WE'D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
THE CONSTITUTION 
'D1e w,,r.:ls we li,·r ~· 
... 
page 14 

ND lacrosse faces tough road stretch 
By PETE LaFLEUR 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame lacrosse team takes its five-game win­ning streak on the road today, facing off against Lake Forest College in Lake Forest, Illinois at 3:30. 
The Irish (5-3) are playing possibly their best lacrosse of the year as they look to peak for four tough games following the match against the Foresters. 
Four of the last five Irish games are on the road, and the team has had most of its prob­lems away from home. They opened the season with three losses on eastern trips before struggling to defeat the College of Wooster 8-7 after an emo­tional win over Air Force. 
But the Irish should not ex­perience a similar dropoff in in­tensity against Lake Forest fol­lowing last week's big win over Kenyon, according to sopho­more defenseman Dave Bar­nard. 
"I don't really expect a let­down. I don't think anyone will, look past Lake Forest," Bar­nard said. "We beat them pretty well in a scrimmage before the season, but I'm sure they've improved." 
Barnard cited the team's ability to capture a quick lead and maintain it in the 14-7 rout of Kenyon as an indication of an improved team confidence and intensity. 
"We're a lot more confident now as far as being able to keep a lead," Barnard said. "Against Georgetown and Stony Brook 51-t the start of the year we got the upper hand and lost it. That's a sign of a young team. 
"But when you're able to come together and keep a lead that's a great sign of mature leadership." 
The Irish attack will again count on their leading scorers, senior tri-captain John Olmstead (17 goals, 10 assists) and junior Brian McHugh (18 goals, 6 assists). The team can also now consider getting some scoring off the bench, as shown by freshman Mike Sullivan's four goals against Kenyon. 
Freshman Tom Duane is 
averaging 12 saves a game and 
will start his third game in the 
Irish net. Senior tri-captain 
defensemen Kevin O'Connor 
and Doug Spencer will lead the 
defense, which has allowed 
only seven goals per game this 
year. 
Notre Dame is in contention 
for the NCAA tournament west­
ern bid following an emotional 
win over Air Force on March 
29. The Irish could capture their first NCAA tournament invitation if they beat Division I rivals Michigan State and Ohio State on the road April 26 and 29, respectively. 
But Irish head coach Kevin 
Corrigan said his team has 
learned the importance of not 
looking past any opponent. 
"Our biggest concern is Lake Forest," Corrigan said. "We're not looking past them because we've found this year that we're not a good team unless we concentrate on what we're doing at the moment." 
Irish concentration was seen in many areas in the win over Kenyon. Notre Dame dominated in groundballs and faceoffs, with sophomore John 

Hurdler will accept 
Associated Press CampbeH, the 1987 world in­
door high hurdles champion, 

INDIANAPOLIS --Tonie decided not to appeal a March Campbell, admitting he was 11 ruling by TAC, the national wrong to refuse a drug test, governing body for track and says he accepts a 90-day field in the United States. suspension by The Athletics Campbell called the incident Congress in order to keep other "a silly mixup" that stemmed athletes from using his case as from his refusal to take a drug a precedent. test after the Mobil One Invita-

WEDNESDAY 
COME CROSS THE BORDER 
FRIDAY NIGHT 
R & B with the 
BLUE LIGHT SPECIALS! 
Wednesday, April 12, 1989The Observer Patterson keeps title bid alive Associated Press INDIANAPOLIS --Tracy Patterson, the son of former world heavyweight champion Floyd Patterson, overcame a slow start to knock out Kim Jackson at one minute of the seventh round Tuesday and keep his bid for the world feat­herweight title alive. Patterson, 30-1-0, nearly had a knockout in the second round when a solid left hook sent Jack­son to the canvas. Patterson had Jackson wobbling after eight count but the bell ended the round seconds later. Patterson began training un­der the guidance of the former world heavyweight champion in New Paltz, N.Y., when he was 11 and was adopted by him three years later. Patterson, who weighed 137 pounds, has a May 14 date to fight former world feather­The Observer I John Studebaker weight champion Stevie Cruz in The Notre Dame lacrosse team travels to Lake Forest today. It will be Atlantic City. He won everythe first of an important season-ending road swing that will determine round and was in command the post-season fate of the Irish. from the start. "It took him longer to loosen Capano securing 8 of 12 and he continued. "I think our up than usual for some rea­freshman Scott Musa winning defense will give them troubles son," said the elder Patterson, 9 of 11. if we can keep them out of fast who manages, trains and does The Irish offense, mean­break situations." promotion for his son. "He while, scored 14 goals on 32 Olmstead has 134 career really didn't get going until the shots to finish far above their points following his two goals third round. I'm not sure why." goal of 35 percent. Corrigan and five assists against Kenyon Nearly every punch Jackson, said the team will need a and is closing in on Irish second 15-2, threw early landed on Pat­similar shooting effort today. all-tie leading scorer Bob Troc­terson's gloves and Patterson chi (143. points). Beyond spent most of the opening round "Lake Forest has an excel­Trocchi's mark is Joe throwing harmless jabs to the lent goalie and we will have to Franklin's career leading 161 body.shoot well," he said. points. Olmstead would need to The pace picked up in the "They are also a good fast average over five points per second round as a left jab stag­break team so we will try and game to capture the top spot as gered Jackson into the ropesget back and make them play the Irish enter the most dificult midway through the round. '6 on 6' in settled situations," part of their schedule. Patterson, who has had nine knockouts in winning 10 con­secutive fights since losing a controversial10-round decision 90-day suspension to Jeff Franklin in October 1987, then began getting more ag­tional Feb. 5 in Fairfax, Va. He "I was innocent (of drug gressive.told officials at that time he had use), but I was wrong in what Patterson seemed to be going only 40 minutes to catch a plane I did in refusing the test," said for the knockout from then on for which he was holding a non­Campbell, 29, of Ontario, Calif. and most of Jackson's efforts refundable ticket issued by the The suspension was an­were wild flurries aimed at meet promoter. nounced on Tuesday by TAC, pushing the unrelentless Pat­He said he left when it which made it retroactive to terson back. Twice in the third couldn't be resolved who would March 11 when Campbell ap­round, Jackson was backed into pay the difference for a new peared at the TAC hearing. He a corner and did nothing other ticket. had until Monday to appeal. than attempt to shield his face.  
SuTrne.~is CU1£0. ftEASE ~fNI. ) WHa\1 Wl5'~ CUJSCD ... ""ffif;RE is ~0-f?EAS:OI\J ID LeAVC:I the ~ cellar record store GD~ AND TAPG$.  



Wednesday, April 12, 1989 The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 

BERKE BREATHED THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 


e 1981 Chromcle Features 

4-IZ. 
"I don't know which one of you is doing it, but at the end of the symphony, we shall refrain from playing 'shave and a haircut."' 


Apartheid Awareness Week 
Wed April12 Thurs April13 
Film: Cry Freedotn Discussion with Mr. Donald Woods, author 
Where: Cushing Auditorium of "Biko," & "Asking Time: 8:00 and 10:15pm for Trouble" -basis for Donald Woods wrote the story film "Cry Freedom." 
of his lost friend Steve Biko and Richard Attenborough directed the 
2 tickets LaFortune Inti movie that awakened the world. Desk 8pm Cushing 
12:10-1 p.m. Closed Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 3:30p.m. ND women's softball vs. Bethel, Mishawaka. 8 p.m. "The Magic Flute," Memorial Library Auditorium. 8 & 10:15 p.m. "Cry Freedom," Cushing Auditorium. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
12:00 p.m. "SDI (Strategic Defense Initiative)" by William McGlinn, liPS Fellow and professor physics dept., Room 105 Law School. 
12:30 p.m. ND Dept. of Economics Labor Workshop, "Lessons from Swedish Labor and Labor Markets," Virginia Shingleton, Notre Dame graduate student, 131 Decio. 
4:20 p.m. ND Dept. of Physics Colloquium, "Understanding Quantum Phenomena: Bohm's Causal Quantum Theory," by James Cushing, dept. of physics, Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
8 p.m. ND Dept. of Philosophy Prospectives Series in Philos­ophy; The Place of Language: "Wittgenstein on Private Lan­" by Charles Taylor, McGill University. Biology 
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
BBQ Chicken Drumsticks  Turkey Cutlet  
Roast Steamship of Beef  Beef Chow Mein  
Broiled Halibut  Veg. Stuffed Pepper  
Meat TortelliniiSauce  Deli Bar  

23 Foot trail 24 "Boston's­... ":Browning 25 Netherlands river 26 Landlord's 
concern 27 Aroma 28 Locale 29 Long lock of hair 31 See eye to eye 32 Guitarist Atkins 

33 Tortoise's 45 Tousle adversary 
46 Nautical term 34 Privy to 47 Ties to a pier 36 Metal bars 48 Game of chance 37 Scandinavian so Swindle 
goddess of fate 51 Wound 38 Sunbathers' memento goals 52 Sicilian volcano 42 Takes to the 53 Jacob's twin podium 
55 Health resort 43 Not so important 56 Slip 44 Selves 57 Pixie 
ACROSS 
1 Tardy 
5 Davis or Midler 10 Kind of iron 13 "Thanks -1" 14 A Kennedy 15 State positively 17 Start of a 
question to a cleric 20 Affirmation 21 Sometime business abbr. 22 Cut the cake 23 Carrots' companions 24 Electric-current units 26 Set of prayer beads 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
29 Massenet opera 30 Emend 31 Full of sound 32 Greek letter 35 More of the 
question 39 Three, in Torino 40 Scandinavian 41 Plane or space 
preceder 42 Grimm villains 43 Of the pre-Easter 
season 45 Tree with a red bark 48 Marlene's are famous 49 Undersea prowler 
50 Middling 51 View 54 End of the 
question 
58 Rice liquor 

59 Babble 60 Turner or Cantrell 61 Auths. ·offerings 
62 Suit for Galahad 63 Herr's spouse 
DOWN 

1 Luck or Bountiful 2 Medicinal plant 3"-inthe 
Attic": Hellman 4 D.D.E. 's 
command 5 Be disloyal 6 Basic spirit of a 

culture 7 Not that 8 Decimal-system 
base 9 B P O.E 
member 1 o Rich furs 11 To have, in Le 
Havre 12 Two-spot 16 Road-map 
abbrs. 
.;:+=+.:-+;.+-=-! 18 "Deutschland -Alles" 

19 Hope to achieve 
--~-­
-~----­

---------~­
..--------­
Sports 
Wednesday, April 12, 1989
page 16 

Streaking baseball squad has tough week 

By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
As the Notre Dame baseball team travels to Illinois­Chicago today for a doubleheader at 4 p.m., it takes with it a full head of steam. 
The Irish (20-6), coming off of a four-game sweep against Xavier, beating the Mus­keteers 12-3, 3-2 on Sunday and 12-1, 6-3 on Monday, have been victorious in eight of their last nine contests and in the last month have won 14 of 17 games. 
This, according to Head Co­ach Pat Murphy, has given the team confidence and added ex­perience for the remainder of a season that shows much promise. 
"I think this team is growing in confidence," said the second-year head coach. "We've got a demanding week with a number of games and so few pitchers on our staff. We're gaining confidence and we're going to need it." 
In the next five days, Notre Dame will play eight games. On Thursday the Irish are at home for a doubleheader against Butler, and then travel to Dayton to take on the MCC Eastern Division rival Flyers. 
Today, as Notre Dame faces Illinois-Chicago, the Irish will be looking to avenge a 5-0 loss suffered against the Flames on 

Irish have won eight of last nine games 

Irish softball sweeps Belles 
MCC honors Boulac, NO players 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame softball coach Brian Boulac has been named Midwestern Collegiate Conference Coach-of -the-Year. Boulac has guided the Irish to a 16-13 record in their first year on the varsity level. 
The Irish also placed several members on the All­Conference teams. Outfielder Rachel Crossen earned first­team honors. 
Irish players named to the second team were pitcher Missy Lynn, catcher Amy Folsom, infielder Laurie Som­meriad, outfielder Megan Fay and designated player Mia Faust. 
run for the Irish in the bottom win, and Barb Mooney pitched of the sixth to end the game on as well as she has all season." the 10-run rule. Amy Raczkowski started the 
Hitting stars for Notre Dame second game for Notre Dame were Rachel Crossen and and pitched well, allowing only Megan Fay. Crossen had two one hit in four innings. Fresh­RBis to add to her team leading man Missy Linn replaced total of 13. Crossen also leads Raczkowski and did not allow the team in batting. Fay had a hit for the remainder of the an RBI. contest, winning her 14th game 
"We played really well in the against nine losses. first game,'' said head coach Brian Boulac. "We played to see IRISH I page 12 
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame softball team claimed the local brag­ging rights by sweeping St. Mary's in a doubleheader Tues­day. 
The Irish improved their record to 16-13 by shutting out the Belles in game one, 10-0, and outscoring them again in game two, 4-2. 
Notre Dame jumped out to a quick 5-0 lead in the first inning of game one when St. Mary's pitcher Michele Pinter lost con­trol of her pitches, allowing five walks, two wild pitches and hit­ting one batter. The Irish scored all five runs on only one hit as the Belles made two er­rors. 
Notre Dame added another run in the third inning and three more in the fifth. Mean­while, senior captain Barb Mooney held the Belles score­less for the entire game. Step­hanie Nomura scored the last April 5. On that day, the Irish split a doubleheader with the Flames, with the Irish taking the first game by a score of 13­2. 
In the loss, the Irish were shut out by an Jim Shortall, who at that time had an 0-1 record and a 6.94 ERA. The Irish could only manage four hits in that game. 
"I think our kids were em­barrassed by the one loss we had to them, and the way that we lost," said Murphy. "I have a feeling they'll be ready for them. 
"I just think our kids will speak for themselves, and that they'll go up and do the job. I'm sure they're sitting home and waiting for that (Shortall) to pitch," continued Murphy. "I think it would be a big mistake to start (Shortall) against us." 
Despite this determination, due to the great number of games that the Irish will be having, Murphy will be start­ing pitchers "without any ex­perience" in the two games with the Flames. 
This decision is due in part to Murphy's faith in his pitch­ing staff and due in part to the strength of the team's hitting. 
"I really feel like if our team continues to improve, stays confident, and backs up confidence with day-in day-out preparation and work, we're going to be after graduation." 

One key to the team's "'u'-""''~" will be its pitching, which been keeping the team in game and saving it when sive production is less than quate. 
This squad, lacking depth with only nine its roster baseman Joe Huunew1cz has pitched 2 1-3 innings), an exceptional 3.43 team 
"The pitching has been a key for us," said Murphy. again, they're not a 
see SWEEP I page 1 
Father-son tandem boosts Fightin Iris in close game 
By GREG GUFFEY Assistant Sports Editor 
The milestones continued in Bookstore Basketball XVIII Tuesday afternoon. 
A great-grandfather ended a 41-year sabbatical last Thursday, and a father-son combination followed by leading its team to a victory Tuesday. 
Pat and Tony Leonardo helped The Fightin' Iris to a 21­18 win over Strapper Prisby and the Leather Monkeys in first-round action. It's not the 
first time for a father-son team in the tourney, but it is a rare occurrence. 
Pat works in the admissions office, while Tony is a sopho­more at Saint Joseph's High 
School and an employee of the University. Tony scored the last three hoops in the contest, and Bob Mundy was the leading scorer with six. 
"I think it's magnificent," said Pat, a 10-year veteran of Bookstore Basketball. "A vic­tory is a victory in Bookstore Basketball. It's nice to have someone young and energetic on the team." 

In other games, it was a day of extremes. Two favorites won in under 15 minutes each, while three games were decided in overtime battles. 
Clockwork Orange, led by Dan Sharp and Dan Madison with six baskets each, routed Freedom Rock 21-3 in 12 minutes. The winners con­nected on 21-of-34 shots from the field. 
"It was unbelievable compe­tition," said Frank Starns, a member of the winning team. "What really threw us was the Freedom Rock Dillon music in the background. Their gameplan was all mental. This is the Year of the Malaysian Orange." 
Malicious Prostitution also won handily, destroying 4 Skins and a Shirt 21-4 in 12 minutes. Joe Sternberg paced the win­ners with eight hoops. 
Maureen McFadden Is a Fabulous Babe went overtime to defeat Malodorous Bad Ath­letes 24-22. The winners led 5-4 early in the game, but did not regain the advantage until late in the contest at 23-22. George Fish paced the victors eight baskets. 

"We did it for Maureen Fish said. "We'd like to Maureen to our next game." 
In another overtime contest Ocean Motion edged Butt ers and N arne Takers 22-20 Three players on the squad scored at least five kets. Boob Leffler Shamokin Heat also won in overtime against Dr. Justice and the Kareems. 
We Can't Think of a Name showed it's not name, but how a team plays that counts with a 21-12 victory. Too Drunk To Play evidently had a few too many before the game, losing to Air Borden and the Milkmen 21-8. 
Licensed To Brick put up plenty of bricks in its contest, falling to Ted Bundy and the Electrics 21-8. 
Basses of Death brought some comic relief to the day by playing tubas during the game. The gimmick almost worked, as they lost only by a 21-17 count to The Monsters: The Disciples of the Death Ball. 
ND wrestling squad will travel to USSR 
What began as an inside joke has turned into reality for the Notre Dame wrestling team. 
Irish coach Fran McCann will take 12 of his wrestlers to the Soviet Union on May 22 for a 10-day tour that includes dual matches in Moscow, Leningrad and Minsk. 

Steve Megargee 
Irish Items 

McCann had told seniors Pat Boyd, Jerry Durso and Chris Geneser when he recruited them that the team might make a trip overseas in mind. This trip fulfills that promise...with slight variations. 
"Coach McCann said we might be going to Japan," said Boyd, who earned All-America honors last month with a fifth-place finish in the NCAA 142-pound division. "It was kind of a joke among Chris, Jerry and myself that it was just a recruiting ploy they came up with. 
"Then they mentioned last year the possibility we might go to Russia." Notre Dame will become the first college team to wrestle in the Soviet Union. All the American teams which com-
see SOVIET I page 12 





