
VOL. XXIII NO. 15 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Disgruntled employee kills 7, injures 13 in KV 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE-A man with an assault rifle mowed down co­workers as he went from floor to floor "looking for bosses" at a printing plant Thursday, killing seven people and wounding 13 before taking his own life. 
Police said Joseph Wesbecker, 
47. had been on permanent dis­ability, was being treated for mental disorders, and report­edly had threatened the com­pany. lie carried several semi­automatic weapons and thou­sands of rounds of ammunition. 
"I told them I'd be back. Get out of my way, John. I told them I'd be back," the gunman told fellow Standard-Gravure Co. employee John Tingle, who approached him before the 30­minute shooting rampage be­gan. 


"I said, 'How are you, Rock?"' Tingle recalled. "He said, 'Fine, John. Back off and get out of the way ... all the way to the wall."' 
Tingle and other employees nearby then ran into a bath­room and locked the door. 
Police searched every floor of the three-story Standard­Gravure building for victims. 
see SHOOTING I page 6 

Activist voices global concerns 

Louisville police evacuate a victim following a downtown shooting spree on Thursday in which a gunman killed 7 and injured 13 before taking his own life. 
By SARAH VOIGHT 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Vivienne Verdon-Roe demon­strated her faith in democracy when she said Thursday, "True patriotism is speaking up when you see that your country is off course. That is the only way that democracy can work." 
Verdon-Roe, a peace activist and award winning film maker, expressed her concern for end­ing global poverty, the threat of nuclear war. and environ­mental destruction in a lecture sponsored by Notre Dame's Institute for International Peace Studies. 
After the lecture. Verdon-Roe showed her documentary "Women-For America, For the World." which features the opinions of many women peace activists on the nuclear arms race. This film won an Academy Award for the best short doc­umentary in 1987. 
"This film features women speaking with common sense and compassion about the nu­clear threat," said Verdon-Roe. "They show that you don't have to be an expert to have an in­formed and reasonable opinion. Women who understand that if we have the courage to speak with our hearts, we can make the difference." 
In 1983, Verdon-Roe and her associate Ian Thiermann founded Educational Film and Video Productions, a non-profit center which supports the pro­duction of films and videos on the nuclear arms race, and other social issues. 
Verdon-Roe hopes that the videos will inform the public of the nuclear threat and other pressing global problems such as poverty and violence. She said, "Not knowing doesn't solve our problems. Our prob­lems are now crisises. President Bush, in spite of improved rela­tions, is still planning new strategies to fight nuclear war with the Soviet Union." 

Verdon-Roe said that such plans that would increase the likelihood of nuclear war show, "a consistent lack of respect for life. It seems that people today are learning to respect the inanimate things such as money, possessions, and sym­bols more than respect for the living." 
She cited the controversy over the flag burning as an example of how far the United States has deviated from its ideals. Verdon-Roe asked, "Are we forgetting our reverence for the values that the American flag represents?" 
"The man who burned our flag is concerned about our country's support for the killing in South America," said Verdon-Roe. "It seems to me 
see LECTURE I page 4 
Alumni get preference for away game tickets 

By JANICE O'LEARY 
Staff Reporter 
Many students have ques­tioned the number of University of Michigan tick­ets allotted to the student body. 
According to Jim Bell, as­sociate ticket manager, the University is given 5,000 tickets for any away game against University of Michigan, Michigan State, or Purdue. As students have ticket preference for home games, "first priority is given to alumni for away games," Bell said. 
Two hundred tickets are held aside for students for these games. "Students are not guaranteed tickets," stated Bell. 
Out of the 200 tickets al­lotted to the students, 50 tickets were made available to those who purchased the roadtrip package through SUB, said Kara Lenahan, services commissioner for SUB. 
The hotel reservations for the roadtrip were cancelled due to reasons not disclosed at this time, but those stu­dents who had purchased the package were still given their tickets and offered the bus ride and a $20 refund, said Lenahan. 
So, in effect, only 150 tickets were put into the lottery, said Lenahan. The 7 5 winners were announced Monday, and each winner was given the opportunity to purchase two tickets, said Lenahan. 
The only exceptions to the 5,000 tickets given to Notre Dame for away games are those held at either the Orange Bowl or the Meadowlands, said Bell. 


The Observer/L.A.Scott 

Which way to Ann Arbor?. . . 
Members of the trombone section of the Fighting Irish m~rchin~ ~and practice behmd Washmgton Hall Thursday in preparation for Saturday's football game agamst M1ch1gan. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------w 
Car thefts threaten safety of cars at N D 

By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame has had several stolen car incidents on campus in the past week. 
According to Phil Johnson, assistant director of security, Security officers were investi­gating a car in the D-2 parking lot when they discovered wires hanging from the broken steer­ing column. 
Upon an initial check of the plate the car did not register as stolen, said Johnson. "However, the officers were confident the vehicle was stolen as it looked stolen," said Johnson. 
Notre Dame Security worked with the Michigan and Niles Po­lice as the owner resides in Niles. The owner was contacted and stated that the car was in­deed stolen, said Johnson. The car is being held by Security un­til the South Bend Police 
Department takes custody of 
the vehicle for evidence. 
Between September 1 at 6 
p.m. 
and September 2 at 2:15 

p.m. 
a 1987 silver and black Pontiac 6000 LE was stolen from campus, said Johnson. He said the vehicle was recovered later on September 2 by the South Bend Police Department. 


On September 7, a 1989 silver Cheverolet Celebrity was stolen from Corby Hall and has yet to be recovered, said Johnson. 
Between September 7 at 6:15 

p.m. 
and September 10 at 6 

p.m. 
a 1987 Pontiac SE was stolen from the D2 lot. The car was recovered when the South Bend Fire Department found the car engulfed in flames at 500 N. Cleveland. The police had no stolen car report as the 


see CARl page 4 



-------------------------------------------------------------, 
Friday, September 15, 1989

page 2 The Observer 
WORLD BRIEFS 
Skulls pierced by bullet holes, mummified corpses. and trenches full of bones laid undisturbed for decades while the So­viet government refused to acknowledge the estimated 20 million vietims of Stalin's bloody years of terror. Now they are coming back to haunt the eountry, as about once a month for the past year the official press has reported the unearthing of another mass grave as the Soviet Union reveals the horror of its past. 
"Very aggressive treatment is needed," said a eardiol­ogist Thursday in Caleutta, where Mother Teresa's condition worsened after developing chest pains and a high fever. The set­back oceurred less than a week after the Nobel laureate suffered a heart attack. "There is a heaviness in the chest," the cardiolo­gist said. "This is very serious." 

NATIONAL BRIEFS 
Black members of Congress, who increased in number from 1 :{-24, are enjoying unprecedented power as they advance through the !louse seniority system, and are sitting on $2 million in eorporate-donated money which they hope to use to increase their effectiveness. The money was not on the formal agenda for the Congressional Black Caucus's annual "Legislative Weekend" when it opened Thursday, but it was a principal behind-the-scenes topic as thousands of black political leaders gathered from around the country. 
If it repealed or relaxed a law that reduces the Social Secu­rity benefits of senior citizens who earn more than a limited amount of outside income, the government would come out ahead, aecording to Thursday report by a group of House Republicans. GOP critics of Social Security's earnings test released a private study coneluding that at least 700,000 retirees would rejoin the labor market if the law were scrapped. The new workers would generate more in income and payroll taxes than the government would pay out in increased Social Security benefits. 
"I'm afraid of lesbians," ZsaZsa Gabor said Wednesday, referring to immates she may meet if sent to jail for slapping a Beverly Hills policeman. The Hungarian-born star of such films as "Pieture Mommy Dead" and "Queen of Outer Space" was arrested .June 14 after a policeman stopped her for having expired regis­tration tags on her $215,000 Rolls-Boyce convertible. While the officer was checking for other infractions, Gabor allegedly drove away, only to be caught again two bloeks away. At that point she allegedly slapped the officer. If convicted, she faces up to two years in jail and a $4,000 fine. 
Actor Rob Lowe paid his debt to society this week for his sex video by speaking to inmates at detention and rehabilitation cen­ters in his hometown of Dayton, telling them to set goals and "believe in something." While in Ohio, Lowe took a side trip to visit former Cincinnati Reds star Pete Hose. "Pete's always been kind to me," Lowe said. "We both have had rough years. But friends arn friends and I need friends." 
"The Candy Man," entertainer Sammy Davis Jr., has been diagnosnd with throat eancer and will begin radiation therapy next week, his publicist said Thursday in Los Angeles. The 63­year-old singnr, dancer and actor bravnd bigotry for decades as he toured the eountry with such hits as ''I've Gotta Be Me," and has been on tour for more than a year with Frank Sinatra and Liza Minnelli in eoncerts billed as "the ultimate event." 
As a girl, Elizabeth von Trapp ran through the hills near her home in Hyde Park, Vt., singing songs from "The Sound of Mu­sic." It wasn't so much theatrics, though, as family tradition. Now she will fill another family role by stepping onto a stage to portray hnr grandmother, Maria von Trapp, whose flight from Nazi-occu­pied Austria inspired the musical. "I grew up listening to the al­bum with my cousins, and we'd all take parts," said Elizabeth, 35, who learned the tale of the family's flight on her grandmother's knee. 

CAMPUS BRIEFS 
Saint Mary's Health Services will continue to give measles vaccinations the week of Sep.18-22, Monday through Friday, from 9-10 a.m. in the Health Services center. located in the basement of Holy Cross I !all. 

WEATHER 
Clouds 

Cloudy and cool today with a 30 percent chance of light rain. Highs in the middle 60s. Cloudy and not as cool tonight with a 40 percent chance of rain. Lows from the middle to upper 50s. Cloudy and warmer Saturday with a 40 percent chance of rain. Highs in the lower70s. 
InformatiOn comp1led from Observer w1res and Observer staff reports 
Answers to most commonly asked Observer questions 
After three-plus years at Notre Dame and an 
equal amount working for The Observer I have 
'We are more than

encountered a number of questions, comments, ## and complaints concerning this newspaper. happy to hear your In an attempt to answer some of the more 
ideas in order to 

common questions, I have decided to dedi.cate 
•., 
better improve our

this inside column to that cause. I have chosen the five most commons questions I hear, and I coverage.' have tried to give a brief answer to each. Hopefully some of the following will answer 
• Chris Donnelly 

your questions. 
Editor-in-Chief 

Why did you run that cartoon? What is an Inside Column? 
Yesterday, for example, The Observer ran a An Inside Column is the daily column that ap­rather eontroversial politieal cartoon on the pears on the second page of The Observer. The Viewpoint page of the paper concerning working column is written by an Observer staff member mothers and their children. Many of our readers and represents only the opinion of that staff were outraged and asked how we could publish member not that of The Observer. The inside such a piece. The answer is simply that The column, like any column, may be humorous, Observer respects the right of everyone to have critical. or political. The subject matter of the an opinion. Steve Benson, the nationally column is the responsibility of the author. syndicated cartoonist who drew the cartoon, is entitled to make such a comment about society Why didn't they cover that? whether you believe in it or not. Well, maybe we didn't know about it. As large 
as The Observer is our staff cannot possibly be 
At an educational institution like Notre Dame everywhere at once. Therefore it is possible we should all be open to various viewpoints on that they will miss stories. If you feel that there any issue. The Viewpoint page of The Observer is a story worth covering please do not hesitate goal is to serve as a forum for the exchange of to call The Observer's news staff and inform ideas. The mere fact that a cartoon, letter, or them. We are more than happy to hear your column appears on the Viewpoint page does not ideas in order to better improve our coverage. necessarily mean that that is the belief of The Observer's staff. It is an expression of opinion, Why aren't there more investigative pieces'? and if one disagrees they are encouraged to re­If you think there should be more investigative spond via a letter to the editor. pieces you probably have some ideas on what 
should be investigated. If there is something you 
think is corrupt or needs to be uncovered please What is an editorial? give a call. If these types of stories were easy to An editorial is The Observer's opinion on an find they wouldn't need uncovering. 
issue of campus, national, or international im­portance. The editorial represents the opinion I hope I have answered some of the more of the majority of the editorial board of the pa­common question asked about The Observer. per, and it appears clearly labeled on the However, I realize that this short column could 
Viewpoint page. Although the editorial is written not possibly answer everyone's questions, com­by a rotating member of the editorial board it is ment, and criticisms. So if I have not answered the result of a lengthy discussion among the yours please feel free to write me a letter or call editorial board members. me at The Observer office (239-7471). 


OF INTEREST 
Friday Forum at the CSC will begin its Michigan game all campus picnicannual series today with Father Hichard Mc­will take place Saturday at Stepan Center Field. Cormick, O'Brien professor of Christian Ethics, 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. Both dining halls will be closed who will talk on "The Church and Homosexual­for dinner unless it rains. ity," from 12:15-1 p.m., Room 124. Brown bag lunch or soup and bread for $1. Juggling Club will meet Sunday at 2 'p.m. on the Fieldhouse Mall. For more informa-Notre Dame Encounter past participants tion call Shawn at 283-4561. are invited to a short service at 4 p.m. today in the Log Chapel to pray for this weekend's re­treat. 
Amnesty International will hold its first .The International Student Organiza­general meeting of the year at 7 p.m. on Sunday tiOn is having its first annual picnie today at in the esc. 
4:30 p.m. at Holy Cross Field. 
Any undergraduate on the waiting list for 
Political Democratization and the Eco­on-campus housing and who is interested in nomic Crisis in Poland, panel discussion will moving on campus this year only, please contact take place 7:30 p.m. at Holy Cross Junior the Office of Student Hesidences, 311 Adminis­College. tration Building, by Monday, Sept. 18. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary"s College. Subscriptions may be pur­chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Design Editor ................... Joe Zadrozny Design Assistant... .......... Cristina Ortiz Typesetters ....................... Chris Zaback ..................................................... Fritz Valsaint Assistant News Editor..Kelley Tuthill News Copy Editor ........ Monica Yant Sports Copy Editor Steve Megargee Viewpoint Editor........ Christine Walsh Viewpoint Layout...•. Coileen Stepan Accent Edltor .............. Robyn Simmons Accent Copy Editor .... Paige Smoron Accent Designer ............ Brian Grunert Typlsts ........................................Will lamer NO Day Editor ............Karen Balcerzak Photographer ........................... L. A. Scott Irish Extra ........................... Jeanne Blasi ..........................................Catherine Danahy 
Question: How do you reach over 
12,000 people daily? Answer: Buy Observer ad space. Call 239-6900. 


represented in Parliament." 
Town. It was the largest legal that enjoyed wide powers under 20 YEARS OLD and so
The Notre Dame Club of Ann Arbor 

wonderful!
Invites you to the Pep Rally and Pre-Game Part 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY JAMES MARTIN 


Notre Dame/Michigan Game!!! 
" The Lang Gang" 

Friday, Sept. 15, 8-11:59 pm The Ann Arbor Inn Corner of 4th and Huron Downtown Ann Arbor 
Mock Trial Association 
Informational Meeting
Entertainment • Munchies • Refreshments • Raffle Prizes 

Monday, Sept. 18 5:30 pm 
Appearances by the Notre Dame Pep Band and Cheerleaders! 

Montgomery Theatre 
50 dime donation benefits the ND scholarship fund. Everyone is welcome (even Michigan fans for 100 nickels)! 
Notre Dame will participate for the first time in an undergraduate mock trial competition to be held 

FREE FREE 
at Drake University School of Law in late February, All undergrads welcome! 
12 noon until game, and ONE hour afterwards. Parking Lot of Pioneer High School 
Come learn more about it! 
Across from Michigan Stadium Entrance 
Questions? Contact Megan x4825 
~ Sponsored by the ND Alumni Clubs ofMichigan 

The Observer 
The Observer 
A close-up look at the famous Touchdown Jesus on the side of the Hesburgh Memorial Library. It is unlikely that its designers ever intended this connotation. 




South Africa elects new president 
Associated Press 
protest march in South Africa's former President P.W. Botha. history. 
As de Klerk addressed the 
CAPE TOWN, South Africa -Moolman Mentz, spokesman Electoral. College, anti­National Party leader F.W. de for the Conservative Party, the apartheid organizations an­Klerk was elected Thursday to largest parliamentary opposi­nounced that more demonstra­a five-year term as president tion, said approval of the Cape tions and marches were 
and was criticized immediately Town march was "a knife planned in Pretoria and by conservative opponents for thrust in the back" of the secu­Johannesburg on Friday. De Klerk, 53, has been acting
allowing a protest that drew an rity forces. Mentz called for 
estimated 20.000 people. immediate Parliamentary de­president since Aug. 15, a day after he and other Cabinet min­
Police allowed two smaller bate. 
In a rare move, the anti­isters pressured Botha to re­protests to go on Thursday, sign after 11 years in power.
even giving flowers to leaders apartheid Democratic Party of one march. Anti-apartheid voted with the Nationalists to De Klerk is to be inaugurated leaders announced plans for defeat the Conservatives' mo­Wednesday in a Pretoria 
church.

more activity Friday. tion. The Electoral College, domi­In carrying out his stated pol­
De Klerk, whose party wasnated by Parliament members icy to allow peaceful protest, de elected by white voters, de­of the National Party, cast a Klerk faces opposition not only clared himself the leader of all unanimous vote for de Klerk, from right-wing parties but South Africans, "not only those one day after the march in Cape from the security establishment 
page 3 

GEM expands and offers new doctorate programs 
By Paul Millea News Staff 
The National Consortium of Graduate Degrees for Minori­ties in Engineering, or GEM (Graduate Education for Mi­norities) has recently instituted two new programs for minority students interested in earning a doctorate degree in engineering or science. 
Previously, the organization offered fellowships only to those who wanted to earn master's degrees in engineer­ing. 
As a result of the growth of GEM into a national center, the organization moved into a new building , located at 1118 N. Eddy St. said Linda Wells, as­sociate director. The building will provide the space necessary for their expanding staff. Their previous Cushing Hall office, according to Wells, "had inadequate space for as many people as we needed." 
The Ph.D. fellowship 
program is scheduled to begin 
in the fall of 1990, according to 
a GEM release. Twenty-five 
students will be admitted to 
each program next year and 
forty are projected for every 
year thereafter. 
Howard Adams, executive di­
rector of GEM, believes that the 
new building will serve as a 
"National center which will bet­
ter help us serve a wider range 
of students and serve them at 
the Ph. D. level." The fellowship 
offers tuition, paid summer re­
search, mentors on campus, 
and an annual stipend. 
To qualify for eligibility stu­dents must be a U.S. citizen a junior or senior in the engineering or natural science field, a member of an underrepresented ethnic minority group (Black, American Indian, Mexican American, and Puerto Rican) and have an academic record reflecting the ability to com­plete a doctoral degree, ac­cording to the GEM release. 
GEM, whose headquarters are at Notre Dame, seeks to close the gap in the underrep­resentation of minority groups in graduate programs for science and engineering. The organization, established in 1976, hopes to bring minorities earning graduate degrees to a 
level  more  representative  of  
t~eir  numbers in the popul a­ 
tiOn.  

GEM is a not-for-profit orga­nization jointly sponsored by 55 accredited science and engi­neering schools as well as 70 major corporations and re­search laboratories throughout the United States. 
According to Adams, "Our three main areas of focus are: one, meeting the challenge of recruiting and assisting minor­ity students nationwide and providing them with the finan­cial resources necessary for graduate and doctorate studies through our fellowship pro­gram; two, initiating and fos­tering faculty involvement on the importance of graduate study; and three, producing current and readable materials that demystify the graduate school application process." 
-After a student has been ac­cepted as a GEM fellow, the initial phase of the program in­volves working as a summer in­tern for one of the employer members, according to the or­ganization's annual report. 
After this 10-14 week salaried period, the student en­ters the GEM member school where he has been accepted to begin his studies. 
----------------~------­
The Observer Friday, September 15, 1989
page 4 


Salvagers find sunken treasure 
Associated Press 
CHARLESTON, S.C.-Sal­vagers working off South Carolina have begun recovering a golden booty of bars and coins valued at up to $1 billion from a steamship that sank in a hurricane 132 years ago, a spokeswoman said Thursday. 
"It's certainly the largest American treasure trove of all time," said Harry Schatz, a di­rector of Columbus America Discovery Group, which located the wreck of the SS Central America three years ago. 
The gold bars and coins aboard the SS Central America include fortunes made during the California Gold Rush, said historian Judy Conrad of the Columbus America Discovery Group. 
"I never dreamed it would be like this," Thomas Thompson, a director of the group, told The Washington Post in a story published Thursday. 
The paddle-wheel steamer was traveling from Panama to New York on Sept. 12, 1857, when it sank about 200 miles off the coast in 8,000 feet of watnr during a hurricane. The wrnck claimed 425 lives; 153 peopln survived. 
Thn Central America was car­rying a regular monthly ship­ment of gold from the San Francisco Mint to New York banks via the Isthmus of Panama. 
The estimated three tons of gold was valued at $1.2 million. 
based  on  the price of gold of  
about  90  cents  an  ounce  in  
1857.  At  today's  prices  - 

about $360 a troy ounce -its estimated value would be up to $450 million. 
In addition. riches belonging to passengers returning East 
Lecture 
continued from page 1 
that we should defend this man's right to shock us. If we don't support the actual living process of democracy, our flag will cease to be a symbol of democracy." 
Verdon-Hoe said, "I'm wor­rind that we're losing touch with our vnry basic values. Our loss of understanding is forcing us to destroy the very things that give us life: the air, the land, the water." 
Yet, Verdon-Hoe believes that, "We can solve these problems, if we face them. The Chinese word for crisis is made up of two words meaning danger and opportunity. This is a time of great opportunity." 
Car 
continued from page 1 
owner  did  not  know  the  car  
was stolen.  
Between  September  10  at  

8:15 p.m. and September 11 at 
11 :50 a.m. there was an at­tempted auto theft in the D-2 lot. The auto was a 1989 red jenp. A window was broken and the plastic casing on the steer­ing column was broken and wims were exposed. 
"I ask that students pay at­tention as they walk to and from the lot. If they see any­thing suspicious they should drive to the gates or call Security irnrnediatnly. If stu­dents sen a suspicious vehicle, perhaps a car without a decal, they should write the plate numbnr down and give Security a call. We would appreciate the assistance," said Johnson. 
after making their fortunes in California appear to have been aboard the ship, Schatz told The Associated Press during a ship-to-shore interview from aboard the recovery ship Arctic Discoverer, which has been at the salvagp, site since July. 
Historians originally believed 
the ship sank off North 
Carolina, but research led the 
Columbus America group 
south. The Central America was 
located in 1986 and identified 
last year when the ship's bell 
was raised. 
The salvagers began bringing up the first artifacts last month, recovering about 500 pounds of gold so far, Schatz said. 
In recent weeks, gold bars, including one weighing 62 pounds, rare "double eagle" coins valued at up to $20,000 each, and gold coins made by private California mints and valued at up to $15,000 have been recovered, said Pamela Adkins. a spokeswoman for the expedition. 
At such values, "it isn't out of the realm of possibility" that the overall value of the Central America's cargo could swell to $1 billion, Thompson told the Post. 
Thompson, a specialist in un­derwater mining and robotics, was on the expedition ship Arctic Discoverer on Thursday and could not be reached for comment. 
Schatz said much depends on how much personal gold from the passengers is recovered. 
"We don't know the extent of the cargo of valuables," he said, adding it could be sizeable because passage on the steamer cost the equivalent of $6,000 in 1989 dollars. 
lie said much depends on how 
much of the treasure can be re­
covered, adding, "We feel we 
can fully recover the site." 
"That billion-dollar estimate 
is probably the most frequently 
heard figure on the treasure's 
value," said shipwreck expert 
E. Lee Spence of Sullivan's Island. 
He said, however, that an es­
timate of a couple hundred mil­
lion dollars would be realistic, 
adding that that amount could 
be higher depending on how 
much gold the passengers were 
carrying. 
Adkins said the salvors 
"really don't have a fix on the 
amount of passenger gold," but 
"the value of it really depends 
on the quality of what they 
bring up, the rarity of what 
they find and demand." 
To recover the treasure, the salvage crew is using a com­puter-based imaging system that allows searchers to see objects far below the surface and an underwater vehicle equipped with video cameras and a high-precision robotic arm. 
The expedition was financed by 106 investors, mostly from Columbus, Ohio, where the group is based, who put up their money in a limited part­nership, the Columbus Dispatch reported Thursday. 
Thompson, who put up no money, could receive 40 percent of the proceeds from sale of the recovered treasure, the news­paper said. 
The salvagers found the wreckage with the assistance of a computer program that ana­lyzed data gleaned from hun­dreds of newspaper articles about the Central America's sinking, Ms. Conrad said. The expedition paid close attention to references to tides, currents and wind directions. 
BUY CLASSIFIEDS 
HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY TED! (the 18 WHEELER GOD) Mike, Markus,& Stacy  
"MEXICAN INDEPENDENCE DA\"' 'it:i FIESTA·::·~!}~::~1¥.: FIELD~OUSE MALL : .. · 4.00 P.M. (FRI.) SEPT. 15, 1989 EVENTS WILL INCLUDE: 1. Folklore Dance Group! 2. Jalapeno Eating Contest! 3. Pinata Breaking! ~<( 12:;'~~ SPONSORED BY HISPANIC-AMERICAN  


AP Photo/James Thresher of The.Washington Post 
It wasn't exactly at the end of a rainbow, but high-tech treasure hunters found a "pot" of gold off the cost of Charlston, S.C. with an es­timated worth of $450 million. Geologist Bob Evans examines a gold bar Tuesday weighing more than 62 pounds which was recovered from the 1857 hurricane-sunk SS Central America. 
Want to look good? Party hearty-Get good grades ­Have lots of energy?! 
Natural-low cal snacks 
Vitamins-"when you just can't eat right" Instant, Frozen natural foods Cosmetics Athletic supplements 
Lots more!! 


Gar<dl~ 1111 J?>a1teIln 
ND 


Mlarlk.~1t
ANGELA 

228 W. Edlaon Mlat.awaka. IN ~~ Hours 10 ~M · 7 PM M Sat. 255-31M 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
THE 

11EXTRAORDINARY! 
IIIOl MOIIIIII ONI OJ TNI MOlT INT.IOUINO •IOUIU IN TMI AMIIICAN MOVII WORLD." 
Rofl•' Eh•rl -CHICAGO SUN riMES 
115ENSATIONAL FILMMAKING!" 
J Hob•rmon --PREMIERE MAGAZINE 
TONIGHT 7:30 ' 9:30 

------~~-------------­




Tank barge runs aground in NY 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-A tank barge carrying 3.8 million gallons of gasoline ran aground in the East River Wednesday night, causing what the U.S. Coast Guard termed a "major gaso­line spill." 
Authorities closed parts of the East River and the Triborough Bridge as a precau­tion. · 
The barge, the Marania 440, was being towed by the tugboat East Coast when the barge struck bottom and ran aground just north of the Triborough ­Bridge at about 9:45 p.m., said Petty Officer Jeff Crawley, of the Coast Guard public affairs at Governor's Island. 
An undetermined amount of gasoline was leaking into the river, Crawley said. 
"We're talking like a major gasoline spill, but I don't know any amount at this time," Crawley said. 
Crawley said Coast Guard pollution personnel were on the scene, working with the fire and police departments, the city Office of Emergency Management and Department of Environmental Protection and the state Department of Environmental Conservation. 

The Observer/l.A.Scott 

In answer to your question ... 
Athletic Director Richard Rosenthal spoke at the St. Edward's Hall Forum Thursday, addressing the is­
~s_u_e_,'_'H_a_s_N_~_re~D-am~e_re_a_c_he_d_t_he~su_m_m~n-~_c_o_lle_g_ia_~~M_h_le_Hc_s_.·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Saturday, Oct. 14 8:00pm Morris Civic A!JditoriJJm all seats reserved $16.50 Tickets on sale TOMORROW AT 10:00 Civic Box Office,Nightwinds, Record Connection & usual outlets CHARGE 284-9190 
Source: U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics; Bureau of the Census; National Assessment of Educational Progress, 1988; The American College Testing Program 
Hispanics may be of any race 

Steampipe explodes on Philadelphia street 
Associated Press No one was injured in the 4 
a.m. incident. 
PHILADELPHIA A Several cars had smashed steampipe explosion Thursday windows. Most were covered sprayed dirt and gravel on with dust and mud. Rocks and more than 100 parked cars and dirt punched holes in the third­a restaurant, officials said. and first-floor roofs of Westy's 
Tavern and Restaurant located
A 12_inch split in the pipe, 
across from the site. buried about 8 fuet under­Crews worked through the ground at a construction site, morning to replace the pipe, caused escaping steam to blow which the company plans to out gravel and dirt, said Steve test to fmd out what caused the Smith, vice president and gen­split, Smith said. eral manager of Philadelphia Company officials already 
Thermal Energy Corp., which have contacted most of the car placed the pipe. owners, Smith said. 
#1 NOTRE DAME "FIGHTING IRISH" vs. #2 MIAMI "HURRICANES" 

THANKSGMNG FOOTBAll WEEKEND 
NOVEMBER 22·26, 1989 
COMPLETE PACKAGE INCWDES 
• 
ROUNDTRIP TRANSPORTATION TO AIRPORT 

• 
ROUNDTRIP JET FLIGHT TO MIAMI 

• 
4 NIGHTS AT THE LUXURIOUS SHAWNEE RESORT DIRECTLY ON BEAUTIFUL MIAMI BEACH 

• 
TRANSFERS TO THE "ORANGE BOWL" 

• 
NOTRE DAME VS. MIAMI GAME TICKET 

• 
GREAT AMERICAN'S TOUR STAFF ON-LOCATION 

• 
ALL TAXES AND GRATUITIES INCLUDED 


TRIP PRICE: $435.00, quad occupancy. $150.00 Deposit to reserve your spot Visa and Mastercard accepted 
I 
Contact the Student Activities Office: Notre Dame 239-7308 315 LaFortune Center Saint Mary's 284-4561 103 Haggar Center 
_____...., 
page 6 The Observer Friday, Se~ember15, 1989 
had been "argumentative and confrontational for a number
Shooting 
of years." 
continued from page 1 "This guy's been talking about this for a year," said Joe 
Achronicle of mass murderers 
Two were found as ofl1cers led 
Mayor Jerry Abramson through 
the building, adjacent to The 
Courier-Journal newspaper. 
"We also found a fellow sit­

ting in a corner that was just 
shuddering in fear," Abramson 
said. "lie hadn't been shot, but 
he was in shock." 
Five of the wounded were in 

critical condition with multiple 
gunshot wounds, hospital offi­
cials said. One person who was 
not wounded suffered a heart 
attack and was taken to a hos­
pital. 
"It looks like a battle zone ... with the blood and the people involved tlwre." Abramson said. "ThPrn w1~re bodies lying ar.ross stairrases. It was just frightening." 
Wesber.ker ent1~red the build­ing at S:30 a.m. with a duffel bag, an AK-47 semiautomatJr. rille. two MAC-11 semiauto­matic mar.hine pistols, a .38­r.aliber handgun, a 9mm auto­matic and a bayonet, Police Chinf Hichard Dotson said. 
"lin was loaded for bear." Dotson said. It was undear how many shots he firnd from the AK-47, the same type of gun used by a man who killed five school children in Stockton, Calif., in January. 
Wesbncker took an Hlevator to third-floor offices. pulled the rille out of his bag and opened fire, police and witnesses said. 
"lie was up there looking for bosses," Tingle said. "lie couldn't lind none of the bosses and couldn't find none of the supervisors. lie was just in too deep to turn back. So he just shot anything that was dose to him." 
White, a Standard-Gravure em­
ployee. "lie's been talking 
about guns and Soldier of For­
tune magazine. He's paranoid 
and he thought everyone was 
after him." 
Wesbecker had been on per­

manent disability, Dotson said. 
lie reportedly had made 

threats against the company, 
whkh orints newspaper inserts 
and Sunday newspaper supple­
ments, but Standard-Gravure 
President Michael Shea said he 
did not know of any threats or 
the nature of Wesbecker's dis­
ability. 
''I'm at a loss to speculate on anything," Shea said. "What's going through my ming right now is sympathy and caring for the people who are involved." 
The gunman was found face­down in a pool of blood on the floor of a pressroom. The pistol was discovered under his body and the rille was a few feet away. 
Dotson said his officers had come "close, but not that dose" to apprehending Wes­becker. 
A woman who answered the telephone at a house where Wesbecker's mother was stay­ing said the family did not want to comment. 
"We're just in shock like ev­erybody else. We had to find out over the television. No one called us," said the woman, who did not identify herself. "I guess he was just a sick person. That's all." 
The newspaper building was evacuated after the shootings. At least two downtown blocks were sealed off and a dozen ambulances lined the streets. 
Associated Press 

JULY 18, 1984-Twenty­one people are fatally shot in a McDonald's restaurant in San Ysidro, Calif., by James Oliver Huberty, an out-of­work security guard. Huberty himself is killed by a police sharpshooter. 
DECEMBER 1987 Sixteen people, including 14 members of one family, are killed. The mass slaying is discovered after R. Gene Simmons Sr. is arrested Dec. 28 in the killings of two people in Russellville; Ark. A search of his home near Dover uncovers the remains of 14 family members. who authorities say were killed by Simmons just before Christmas. Simmons was convictnd of capital murder on two charges May 12. 1988, and sentenced to death. 
AUG. 1, 1966 -Sixteen people are killed in Austin, Texas, by Charles Whitman. Most are hit by sniper fire aftPr he climbs to the top of a campus tower at the University of Texas. Whitman is killed by police. 
AUG. 20, 1986-Fourteen people are shot to death at a post office in Edmond, Okla., by Pat Sherrill, 44, a postal worker who authorities say was about to be fired. After police sharpshooters arrive, Sherrill kills himself. 
FEB. 19, 1983 -Thirteen people are fatally shot in the head during a robbery at a gambling club in· Seattle's Chinatown section. Willie Mak and Benjamin Ng are later convicted of murder. 
SEPT. 5, 1949 -Thirteen people are fatally shot in 12 minutes in Camden, N.J. Howard Unruh. who told police, ''I'd have killed a thousand if I'd had enough bullets," was found insane and committed to a mental institution. 
SEPT. 25, 1982 -Twelve people, including live chil­dren, are killed in Wilkes­Barre and Jenkins Township, Pa. George Banks, 43, is later convicted on 12 counts of murder and sentenced to death. 
MAHCH 30, 1975 -Eleven people, including eight chil­dren, are killed at a family gathering in Hamilton, Ohio, on Easter Sunday. A relative, James Ruppert, is convieted of two killings and found in­nocent by reason of insanity in nine others. 
APRIL 15, 1984 -Tnn people, including eight chil­dren. are killed in a Brooklyn, N.Y., apartment on Palm Sunday. Christopher Thomas is convictf)d of first­degree manslaughter, the judge citing "extreme nmo­tional-disturbance." 
JULY 14, 1966 -Eight student nursns are stabbed or strangled in a Chicago dormitory. Richard Speck, 24, is convictnd of murder. 
FEB. 15, 1988 -Sevnn people are killed and fivp others are wounded at ESI. Corp.. a Silicon Valley de­fense contractor. A former nmployce. Hichard Wade Farley. 39, of San Jose. Calif., is arrested and hPid at the Santa Clara County Jail. Authorities said he was fired for harassing a woman em­ployee. The woman was among those injurnd. 
SEPT. 25, 1987 -Seven family members, four of them childrnn. are shot to death on two Elkland, Mo., farms. Accusnd killer James Schnick. who police say triPd to divnrt blame for tlw killings to his 14-year-old nephew, one of thn victims. was convicted of three c:ounts of first degree mur­der and sentenced to dnath. 
JAN. 17, 1989 -Patrick Purdy. a troubled 24-year­old drif!Pr, opens fire on a Stockton, Calif., schoolyard with an AK-47 semi-auto­matic assault rille and other weapons. Five children arc killed and 29 others and one 
tcac:hPr are wounded. Purdy then turned a pistol on him­self. 

Wesbecker worked his way downstairs, shooting people along the way. 
"lie didn't fire randomly. lie was definitely doing some dam­age," Maj. Ed Mercer said. 
Wesbecker eventually ended up in a pressroom in an annex, when~ he killnd himself with a shot under his chin, Dotson said. 
"I thought it was firecrackers going off," said Bud Graser, a pressman. "When I saw what it was. I turned around and told everybody to get out of there." 
Ed Green, a supervisor in the plant's etching room, said he heard at least 20 shots. "I seen two (victims) and then I got out." Green said. 
A police officer who knew Wesbecker told Dotson the man 


*****************~ 
iC iC ~ HAPPY ~ iC iC ~ BIRTHDAY ~ 
iC • 
iC • ~ CHICKEN!! ~ iC iC 

~****************~ 

STEAKS 


100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA

PRIME RIB 

Featuring Friday night seafood buffet SEAFOOD 
and Sunday brunch 
219-259-9925 

~~~1/~Jf'b./ 
at Saint Mary's College 

1989-90 PERFORMING ARTS SERIES 
Friday, September 15 DANCE KALEIDOSCOPE 
Friday, February 9 CHAMBER BLUES with CORKY SIEGEL & THE CONSORTIUM STRING QUARTET 
All performances 8 p.m., O'Laughlin Auditorium 

Friday, October 6 THE MINNESUfA OPERA MADAME BUTIERFLY with full orchestra 
Friday, April 20 
CHICAGO CITY LIMITS 

Series subscriptions and individual performance tickets available at the Saint Mary's box office. located in O"Laughlin Auditorium. TICkets by phone at 219 I 28-4-4626. VISA, MasterCard orders only. For updated program information, call the Saint Mary's Campus Events Hotline. 674-0900, category 1740. 
. l!t--­
l .:iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii Samt Mary's Col~~ iiiliiiiliiiiliiiiliiiiliiii~
NOTRE DAME· I NOlANA 








All Nite Tom Cruise ~~Movie Fest 
12:20 2:30 
8:00 Top Gun 

10:10 Cocktail 
All The Right Moves The Color Of Money 
$2.00 each movie $5.00 for entire night Cushing Auditorium 

~ 
:ay,September 15, 198~-­

The Observer page 7 
Exxon effort may not have helped 
Associated Press 
VALDEZ. Alaska-Exxon's infusion of thousands of oil­spill cleanup workers and mil­lions of dollars into Prince William Sound did as much harm as good. fishermen charged Thursday as the six­month cleanup ground to a halt. 
"It's time that everyone real­izes that no amount of money in the world is going to restore Prince William Sound to a pris­tine condition." said Riki Ott of Cordova District Fishermen United. 
While about a third of the sound's fishing fleet worked for Exxon this summer. and in some cases profited hand­somely. fishermen who opted to fish suffered from a restricted 
salmon  season  and  a  poor  
catch.  
With  most  of  the . sound  

closed for fishing. fishermen were forced to compete in a small area for a few fish. "This 

Save up to 70% on all skis, boots, bindings, poles, ski packages and winter wear. Everything in the store will be priced to sell!!! Don't miss the biggest preseason ski sale of the year. Plus shop our huge bike selection. Accessories and clothing marked for year end savings. 
3602 N. Grape Road Mishawaka, IN 259-1000 
Cash, Checks, VISA, MasterCard, Layaways accepted and encouraged. 
year we were like rats penned inside a cage." said Dave Clarke of the Prince William Sound Seiners Association. 
In addition, businesses that depend on fishermen suffered because much of Exxon's cash was not spent on fishing sup­plies and gear, Clarke said. 
"The money spill has proba­bly been as devastating as the oil spill." Clarke said. 
The fishermen's observations came at a news conference as Exxon continued to return the last of the cleanup workers from oil-tainted shorelines in the sound. Exxon officials said 
they  expect  to  declare  the  
summer  cleanup  over  Friday,  
25  weeks  after  the  tanker  

Exxon Valdez cracked open on a reef and spilled nearly 11 million gallons of crude oil. 
While the fishermen did not criticize their colleagues for ac­cepting Exxon's cash, they said the money has caused an emo­tional division between those who accepted and those who did not. Fishermen scraping by this season fear they may be at a competitive disadvantage next year because they can't af-ford better boats and gear. 

The money has become "just 
another stress factor" from the 
spill. Clarke said. 
Ott said the cleanup effort 
stemmed more from public re­
lations needs than environmen­
tal concerns. Once the Friday 
cleanup deadline was set. 
Exxon began using warmer wa­
ter and higher pressure to hose 
down the oiled shorelines 
faster. doing more harm than 
good. she said. 
"The beach cleanup should not be evaluated on the amount spent, the amount of equipment and people working on it. It should be evaluated on its ef­fectiveness," Ott said. 
Ott said her group favors a "permanent scaleback" of the cleanup. with smaller "strike forces" set up to respond to sensitive areas threatened by oil washing off the shorelines. 
"We don't want thousands of people on the beaches again," she said. "It was about as bad as the oil spill itself." 
At the height of the cleanup. Exxon had about 12,000 people working on the effort, about 3,000 of them on the shorelines. 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29 JOYCE ACC NOTRE DAME 
Tickets available at JOYCE ACC BOX OFFICE 
and ALL TICKETMASTER LOCATIONS 
including L.S. AYRES (Univ. Park and Scottsdale Malls) NIGHTWINDS (Niles. Mi)-SUPERSOUNDS (Concord Mall) MUSIC MAGIC (Benton Harbor. Mi)-CARSON PIRIE SCOTT (Mich. City. In) 
OR CHARGE BY PHONE 

1-800•284-3030 
AtfM;/lafJ-, PRODUCTION 
F A L L 
---------~---~-~--~-~ -~ --­
page 8 
Caribbean to get rain from Hurricane Hugo 
Associated Press 
MIAMI-Steadily growing Hurril'ane Hugo slowed its march Thursday to the CaribbPan. but hurricane fore­casters said islanders should get ready for wind and heavy rain. 
"They could start feeling the effects in 48 hours," said Jim Gross at the National Hurricane Center in suburban Coral Gables. 
Hugo was moving slowly, an indication of a potential change in direction, Gross said. For now. people on the northern and central Leeward Islands 
Kroger Co. sells nine food plants 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI-Groct'ry store chain Kroger Co. said Thursday it has agreed in principle to SPll nine of its food manufacturing plants, including an Indiana op­eration, as part of a $4.6 bil­lion corporate restructuring begun last fall. 
The nine plants are among 11 Kroger is selling as part of the restructuring, which was launched in part to stav£1 off two unsuccessful takeover bids for the company. 
Negotiations are under way to sell the remaining two plants, the company said. The grocery chain said it expects to reap after-tax proceeds of $260 million from the sale of all 11 units. 
Cincinnati-based Kroger owns and operates supermar­kets. convenience stores and food processing plants in 32 states. 
Company officials said Thurs­day they had signed a letter of intent to sell eight food manu­facturing plants to a corpora­tion to be formed by New York City businessman Eli Jacobs of New York and Engles Capital Corp., of Dallas, Texas. 
The eight plants are North Coast Bakery, of Cleveland; De­light Products, of Springfield, Tenn.; Kenlake Foods, Murray, Ky.; Pontiac Foods, Pontiac, S.C.; State Avenue plant, Cincinnati; Tara Foods, Albany, Ga.; K.B. Specialty Foods, Greensburg, Ind.; and Pace Dairy, Rochester, Minn. 
The eight plants' new owner will offer jobs to the plants' current employees and also may employ some manufacturing personnel now working in Kroger's Cincinnati headquar­ters offices, Kroger said. 
The transaction ineludes an agreement to continue offering Kroger's private-label prod­ucts, company officials said. Kroger said the deal should be concluded by mid-November. 
In a separate transaction, 

Kroger said it has agreed to 
sell its Meadowland Creamery 
in Conroe, Texas, to Borden 
Inc. 
The remaining two plants, Kroger's Gateway Bakery and Heartland Farms Dairy, both in St. Louis, are under considnra­tion by separatn buyers. Kroger said. 
Negotiations are undm way for the bakery with Alpha Baking Co. of Chi<..ago, while an unnamed party is bargaining for the dairy, Kroger said. 
should watch Hugo earefully, he said. 
"It's a storm that's been steadily increasing every day," (iross said, adding that eondi­tions are favorable for more strengthening. 
At noon EDT, Hugo's center was located near 13.3 north latitude and 48.7 west longi­tude, or about 815 miles east of the Lesser Antilles. The storm was moving west at 15 mph, down from 20 mph Wednesday night. 
Its highest sustained winds were 85 mph, up 10 mph from the center's advisory six hours earlier. 

$2.00 off all other CDS! 
PRINCE -RICHARD MARX-MR. BIG -TOM PETTY-FINE YOUNG CANNIBALS -BEASTIE BOYS -THE CULT-LOVE & ROCKETS -BEACH BOYS -EXPOSE -STEVE STEVENS -DIRTY LOOK-JEFF HEALEY-STARSHIP-BADLANDS­BILLY SQUIRE-WINGER-SKID ROW-ELTON JOHN! 
AND TONS MORE $6.99 TP $10.99 CD 
* used CDS & sales stickered CDS excluded 
maxell 

Let the music play 
AP Photo 

A sound technician tries to hook flutist Jennifer Lyn Hedrick, Miss Kansas, back up to her amplifier after her sound cord pulled loose during the talent competition at the Miss America Pageant in Atlantic City Wednesday night. 
------------=--~-=--=-~--~ 
Viewpoint
Friday, September 15, 1989 page 9 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 {219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 

Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor ...... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............. Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor ................... Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ........ Shannon Roach Sports Editor ...................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ............ Aiison Cocks Accent Editor... . ..................... John Blasi Systems Manager .............. Mark Derwent Photo Editor... ......... Eric Bailey OTS Director ................... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor .............. Christine Gill Controller ............................. Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob­jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

Br\CK·TO·ScUOOL £~I 
EDITORIAL 
Drug plight must be fought on all fronts 
Last Tuesday, President George Bush publicly an­nounced the strategy for the war on drugs that both he and drug czar William Bennett devised. 
The growing problem of drugs must be attacked from both the supply and demand-sides. President Bush has not only allocated significant funds to combat drug im­porters but he has also earmarked billions for educa­tion and treatment. 
It is crucial, however, that the war on drugs be waged not only in the streets and in the classrooms but also in the homes and churches. Communities must become outraged at the problem of drugs in order for the President's agenda to be effective. The government can do only so much to help motivate communities, but by making the war a drugs his number one priority President Bush has shown his administration's outrage and hopefully the local communities will follow his lead. 
In addition to leading by example, President Bush has also allocated a substantial sum of money to law en­forcement, nearly doubling the amount currently given to local law enforcement agencies. If members of the community are to become outraged they must be pro­tected from the drug dealers they are fighting. 
Rev. George Clemens, a Catholic priest in Chicago, has launched a successful grassroots campaign against stores that sell drug paraphernalia. Although his life has been threatened numerous times he continues his fight and his supporters are growing in number. If others are to follow his example there must be ade­quate protection from the government and the President's emphasis on enforcement will help. 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities must also become outraged at the problem of drugs. More importantly they must begin to do something about it. Students must begin to educate and fight against drugs in their home communities as well as at school. 
Although there are probably no crack dealers in your dorm there are still ways you should help. Students must no longer turn their backs on people they know who have a drug problem, they should confront them and get them help. In addition, those who live off cam­pus should help lead the fight to get drug dealers out of their communities. 
The dark specter of drugs will not be eliminated overnight. However, with the help of communities {ours included), the government, and the church the problem can be eliminated with time and persistence. 
HtY, tV&RY­

IA/H/3/<&'s 
MYGRAND­

BODY/ LOOt< 
HI, 
DAUGHT!3!<.7

WHO'S H£RE: I 
\ MOM! I 
LETTERS 
University to aid in ensuring off-campus security 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing regarding a matter of concern to all of us in the University community. In recent months, there has been an increase in violent crime in the neighborhood directly adja­cent to the university. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents have been included among the victims. These crimes have included assault, armed robbery, and in one case, a shooting. 
My purpose in writing is to alert all students, as well as staff and faculty, to the poten­tial danger of the area, espe­cially after dark. University Se­curity advises me that caution is necessary when walking through the neighborhood. Safety information is available to all faculty, staff, and stu­dents through the Security De­partment. 
the University will continue to participate with the student government, neighborhood or­ganizations, city government, and local law enforcement agencies to ensure the safety of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. Meanwhile, I urge you to exercise caution and good judgment should you live in, or plan to walk through, this area. 
Father David Tyson 
Vice President 
Student Affairs 
Sept. 14, 1989 

'Casual user' should not be the prime target in drug war 
Dear Editor: 
Dave Bruner's recent spewing forth on the subject of drugs (The Observer, Sept. 13) leads me to make two comments. First, it always amazes me when people go on and on about the evils of drugs while not realizing that alcohol is the dominant drug in our society. We regard it as a part of our life, and an especially signifi­cant part of college life. This is as true at Notre Dame as it is elsewhere. 
Mr. Bruner wants to target the casual user. However, it is not the casual user who is committing criminal acts in order to finance their habit. In fact, more people have died from the abuse of alcohol ­from physical effects such as liver or heart disease which can be caused by social drinking, as well as from drunk driving ac­cidents -than from an occa­sional toke on a joint. 
Yet, these latter miscreants are the ones which he and others of his ilk see as the cause of the breakdown of the fabric of society. It is not the casual user who is engaged in violent drug activity; the possi­bility of jail time will not deter the addict, but punishment seems to be the only solution. 
Second, Mr. Bruner seems to have no notion of the right of privacy or the concept of being inn_ocent until proven guilty. 
According to his logic, people should be tested, whether or not there is any suspicion of drug use, in order to prove to the powers that be that they are not guilty of the perceived heinous act. Laying aside whether casual drug use is such a major crime against society, it seems. to me that violating a person's constitutional as well as innate right to privacy ex­cept, possibly, in the most ex­treme of circumstances, is a great blow to a truly demo­cratic society. 
Perhaps Mr. Bruner should reexamine his support for some of the most fundamental tenets of our society. 
Kurt Mills 
Graduate Student 
Peace Institute 
Sept. 13, 1989 

Child care must not be solely a woman's responsibility 
Dear Editor: ing. Mothers are not solely re­Anyone who considers this 
The editorial cartoon depict­sponsible for the upbringing of cartoon entertaining perpetu­ing a successful career woman children. There is much empiri­ates attitudes which keep with a neglected, delinquent cal evidence to substantiate the women in narrowly-defined child in The Observer (Sept. 14) importance of fathers in child roles and scoffs at all women was overwhelmingly in poor care. who attempt to better them­taste. Additionally, there is no clear selves by fulfilling interests 
As a graduate student in de­support for the contention that outside the domestic realm. velopmental psychology, both children of working mothers M. Theresa Estrada my academic and emotional suffer any detrimental effects Graduate Student sensibilities were offended by related to their mother's em­Psychology 
the sexist nature of the draw-ployment. GARRY TRUDEAU 
Sept. 14, 1989 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'The road is much more 
difficult this year ... we better be 
able to take it up to another 
level.' 
Lou Holtz 

Notre Dame Football Media Guide 1989 

fri.
MOVIES 

Tom Cruise Film Fest Engineering Auditorium, Four Tom Cruise classics starting at 8 p.m. 
"Thin Blue Line" Annenberg, 7, 9:30 p.m. 
..... 
MUSIC 

Mexican Independence Day Festival Hispanic American Society 
Fieldhouse Mall, 4 p.m. sate 
MOVIES 

"Beaches" Engineering Auditorium, 8, 10:15 p.m. 
MUSIC 

Pianist John Browning and the South Bend Symphony Orchestra Morris Civic Auditorium, 8:15p.m. 
sun.
ART 

Snite Museum of Art, Opening Reception On the Snite's southwest lawn 2-4 p.m. 
FORUM CINEMAS North Village Mall 277-1522 
The Abyss Batman Time Trackers 

100 CENTER CINEMA 259-0414 
Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade Star Trek 5 Lock Up 
SCOTTSDALE CINEMAS 259-9o9o 
Nightmare on Elm St. 5 Casualties of War Kickboxer 

TOWN AND COUNTRY 2340 Hickory Rd. 259-9090 
Eddie and the Cruisers II Relentless Parenthood 

UNIVERSITY PARK EAST 6424 Grape Rd 277-7336 
Young Einstein  Honey I Shrunk the Kids  
Ghostbusters 2  Dead Poets Society  
Turner & Hooch  Uncle Buck  
Lethal Weapon 2  The Abyss  

UNIVERSITY PARK WEST 
When Harry Met Sally Cheetah Casualties of War Kickboxer 
ND 
ROBYN SIMMONS 
assistant accent editor 

For those students who would rather be at the Notre Dame-Michigan game than watch it on TV, a trip to Ann Arbor, Michigan is great way to kickoff the official 1989 road­tripping season. 
Ann Arbor is approximately 130 miles from South Bend and the drive (if one obeys the legal speed limit) would take close to three hours. Depending on the traffic, the roadtripper can chose which route to take. One way is to go up US 31 north to US 12 east in Niles, Michigan. Go east on US 12 to US 23 north. Go north on US 23 through Ypsilanti into Ann Arbor until there are signs for the University. 
The alternate (and less senic) route would be be to take US 31 to US 12 to US 131 north to 1-94 east into Ann Arbor. Another option would be to take US 12 to I-69 north to 1­94 into Ann Arbor. 
Besides tailgaters; there are other pre-game activities for the roadtripping Irish. The Notre Dame Club of Ann Arbor will be sponsoring a pep rally and pre-game party tonight at 8 p.m.-12 a.m. at the Ann Arbor Inn at the corner of 4th and Huron in downtown Ann Arbor for those who wish to start the festivities a day early. 
students kick 0 
The pre-game party will include entertainment, food and a cash bar in addition to appearances by the Notre Dame cheerleaders and the Pep Band. 
No matter which route you take, be sure to allow yourself plenty of time to reach the sta­dium. The stadium is a good hike from the campus, and since the stadium can hold over 100,000 people, it is safe to as­sume that the nearest parking spaces will be already occupied by the time you arrive on Michigan's campus. 
The city of Ann Arbor has a population of more than 107,800 people and the University of Michigan itself has about 40,000. Ann Arbor is a truly a college town, and the university is almost fully inte­grated into the city so there is shopping and parks and non­campus life nearby. The diver­sity of the town allows road­trippers who don't have tickets to the game to enjoy it even if they don't make it to the sta­dium. 
There are several popular establishments where football fans can go for food and drinks. A particular favorite amongst Irish fans is Dooley's. If you didn't get a ticket for the game (or didn't have enough money to buy tickets from scalpers) Dooley's is the best place to watch the game. Dooley's boasts a large screen TV and nine monitors-you 
Ann Arbor roadtrip hot 
ROBYN SIMMONS 
assistant accent editor 

An Irish victory always makes a roadtrip worthwhile, but the game is only part of the overall roadtrip experience. Before and after the game, fans will be all over Ann Arbor checking out the bars and restaurants. Ac­cording to the Michigan Daily, the following establishments are a few of the hottest spots in town. 
But first, some basic things you need to know: Even though the drinking age is 21, many bars legally admit people over 18, but trying to use a fake ID is usually not a good idea; in some places this applies more than others. Also, Michigan laws provide that liquor cannot be sold after 2 a.m. and bars close accordingly. 
Drink 

CAMPUS AREA DOOLEY'S 310 Maynard­You'll probably find a lot of Domers here. It's an Irish pub with a copy of the Notre Dame Victory March on hand for the DJ to play each time the Irish score. They offer pizza, subs, salads, and plenty o' beer to wash it down. 
UNO'S 1321 S. University­Domers hailing from Chicagoland might recognize the name; downstairs is said to be the best pizza in Ann Arbor, and upstairs becomes a 21­and-over bar after 10 p.m. The restaurant's full menu is avail­able, in addition to an assort­ment of munchies. Space is limited, and as a result the bar quickly gets crowded and noisy. 
GOOD TIME CHARLEY'S, corner of S. University and Church Streets-You only have to be 18 to get in. so Charley's is mainly an undergrad hang­out. Once you've fought the crowds to get in the down­stairs, beer is in abundant sup­ply. The upstairs was recently transformed into a sports bar, to go along with the small dance floor. 
RICK'S, 611 Church St.­Rick's features live entertain­ment nearly every night. You must be 19 to enter, and pay a $2-$5 cover charge. Rick's has a small dance floor, pool tables, and a games center take up most of the available space in this dark, hot, but lively bar. 
DOMINICK'S, 812 Monroe St.-Dominick's is one of the more popular bars in Ann Ar­bor. The daiquiris and beer is served in old mason jars, but using a fake ID to buy it is the wrong idea. If you are buying a drink, you'll be asked to prove you are 21 and often the man­ager walks around and confis­cates drinks from underage drinkers. Dominick's closes at 10 p.m., but there is more than enough time to partake in the full menu of food. 
NECTARINE BALLROOM, 510 E. Liberty-The campus dance-bar, it avoids Top 40 like the plague. "Proper attire is re­quired" for all of those over 18 who want to let it all out on the spacious dance floor. There is a cover charge and drinks are expensive. 
the game inside of Dooley's than inside of the stadium. When in Ann Arbor, Dooley's is definately the best place to be. 
Since most of Ann Arbor's hotels and motels will be booked solid, the best place to spend the night would be in the dorm room of a friend who goes to the University of Michigan. Unfortunately, not every roadtripper is going to know someone on campus (or tlwy may not feel comfortable on campus depending on the outcome of the game) but there are several hotels and motels in the outlying areas which may have vacancies. 
Two hotels which are just outside Ann Arbor are Wellman Accomodations in Horton, Ml 517-563-2231 and Governor's Inn in Lexington, MI 313-359­



DOWNTOWN 
THE QUALITY BAR, corner of William and Main St.-Offers great burgers to go with ex­pensive drinks. The atmosphere adds to the comfort of Ann Ar­bor's newest bar. You need to be 21 to sit outside on the roof. 
THE BLIND PIG, 208 S. First-Houtinely features na­tional acts ranging from blues greats to up-and-coming rock­ers to folk stars. There is al­ways a cover charge and the beer is fairly cheap. Plenty of parking is available. 
Food 
In case you're hungry for a more substantial meal, Ann Ar­bor offers many different types of dining experiences. You can eat at the following restaurants before hitting the bars. and you can visit places like The Brown Jug or Denny's after the the bars close at 2 a.m. 
THE EARLE, 121 W. Wash­ington-The portions are kind of small, but the setting is cozy. Featuring regional French and Italian dishes, not to mention the music of the omnipresent Rick Burgess Trio. 
GANDY DANCER RESTAU­RANT, 401 S. Depot St.-Ex­pect a long wait during football season, but time passes easily at the piano bar. Featuring American favorites and seafood, you can't beat the am­bience of the location-inside an old railroad depot. 
GRATZI, 326 N. Main­Gratzi specializes in Northern 



ISH 
XTRA 
THE GAME  
Time  3:30 p.m. EST  
2:30 p.m. Notre Dame  
time  
TV & Radio  ABC Sports: Keith  
Jackson,Bob Griese.  
Mutual Radio  
Network: Tony  
Hoberts, Tom Pagna.  
Tickets  The game is sold out.  
AP  Rankings  Notre Dame 1st  
Michigan 2nd  
Series  Michigan leads 13-7  
Last Game  Notre Dame 19,  
Michigan 17. at Notre  
Dame Stadium  
NO SCHEDULE  



Aug 31 
Sept. 16 
Sept. 23 Sept. 30 Oct. 7 Oct. 14 Oct. 21 Oct. 28 Nov. 4 Nov. 11 Nov. 18 Nov. 25 
Notre Dame 36, Virginia 13 at Michigan MICHIGAN STATE at Purdue at Stanford at Air Force 
usc 

PITTSBURGH NAVY SMU at Penn State at Miami 
MICHIGAN SCHEDULE 
Sept. 16 Sept. 23 Sept. 30 Oct. 7 Oct. 14 Oct. 21 Oct. 28 Nov. 4 Nov. 11 Nov. 18 Nov. 25 
NOTRE DAME at UCLA MARYLAND WISCONSIN at Michigan State at Iowa INDIANA PURDUE at Illinois at Minnesota OHIO STATE 
Notre Dame vs. Michigan 
Frjday September 15. 1989 
Watters returns home to tailbacks ot 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 

As far as he's concerned, Ricky Watters is 
back where he belongs. 
"I loved playing flanker because of the experi­
ence I got, but there's no place like home," said 
Watters, after moving back to his original posi­
tion of tailback. "That's where I've played all my 
life. Even when I watch football games, I always 
look at the tailbacks." 

Watters rushed for 80 yards on 12 carries 
against Virginia, in his first game back at tail­
back. The junior from Harrisburg, Pa., also 
caught two passes for 42 yards and had 67 
yards on punt returns. 

That game marked a successful recovery from the adversity that hit Watters his sophomore season. 
Near the end of spring drills his freshman year, Irish coach Lou Holtz announced that Watters would move from tailback to Tim Brown's vacated position of flanker. 
During his sophomore season, Watters was feeling the pressure of replacing a Heisman Trophy winner and studying in a demanding ar­chitecture program. Though he had some im­pressive outings, catching four passes for 108 yards and two touchdowns against Air Force, many thought Watters' was never really happy at flanker. 
"The only reason I moved to flanker is because I needed to move there; it was necessary for us to become a great team," said Watters. ''I'm much more at peace now. I always wanted to be a starting tailback at a major college." 
Watters switched his major later in the sea­son, but the worst news was yet to come. That happened during the team's trip to California. 
The day before the top-ranked Irish were preparing to face second-ranked Southern Cal, Watters and fellow tailback Tony Brooks ar­rived 40 minutes late for a team dinner meeting. The two players were suspended for the game and sent back to Notre Dame because of "repeated irresponsible tardiness for team meetings and functions." 
"It was terrible, the lowest point of my life," 
Watters. "We went out and got lost, and 
h Holtz did what he had to do. I guess all 
happen for a reason." 
Watters returned in the Sunkist Fiesta Bowl 
d set up a touchdown with a 57-yard pass 
· , as Notre Dame wrapped up the national ti­tle over West Virginia 34-21. 
making 20,000 fakes to try to
Knowing he would return to tailback, Watters "It's given me an edge," said rformed impressively in spring drills then Watters, who has two touch­run around them." 
That's just what the coacheshimself up over the off-season. down punt returns at Notre want to see from Watters.
Watters, who used to rely on his 4.45 Dame. "It's made me think no­in the 40 to elude defenders, can simply body can stop me. I can run over would-be tacklers. through some people instead of 

EAST RUTIIEHFORD, N.J. -Lou Holtz, who often uses boxing analogies in team speeches, watched his team turn in a Mike Tyson-type per­formance Thursday night at Giants Stadium. 
Scoring touchdowns on each of its first five possessions, Notre Dame opened its national championship defense with a 36-13 Kickoff Classic win over Virginia. 
"I don't know if we can play much better th.an we did in the first 25 minutes," said Holtz. 
The Irish dealt their first blow when Todd Lyght intercepted Virginia quarterback Shawn Moore's pass on the third play from scrimmage. Six plays later, Ricket Watters skirted two yards into the end zone untouched. The ensuing extra point gave the Irish a 7-0 lead. 
A tight Virginia team never recovered, looking like a Carl "The Truth" Williams in the ring as a heavyweight champion. 
Not even the Irish can catch Watters during spring scrimmage. The Observer/File Photo 
IRISH EXTRA Friday, September 15, 1989 
team has ever handed Schembechler season for the Notre Dame defensive three consecutive losses. line. Michigan's offensive line could av­This will be the 25th time the top­erage up to 293 pounds according to
The Game... 
ranked team in the country has battled the latest depth chart. 
By GREG GUFFEY Assistant Sports Editor 
This year, the battle for No. 1 will be 
played in S•~ptember. 
With the hype for Saturday's Michigan-Notrn Dame game, one might think it was late December with a na­tional title hanging in the balance. Heality shows that it is mid-September, the first game for the hosts and the second contest for the Irish. 
But even in this early season, no one can deny the importance that this game carries. A win would be just a small stnp in a long road to a national title for eitlwr tnam, but a loss eould, for all practical purposes, nnd a team's shot at that mythical crown. 
"It has seemed to be a turning point the four years I've been here," Irish fullback Anthony Johnson said. "It seems to be the point of the season where you realize whether the season is going to go well or bad. Things started to turn around here when we won there two years ago." 
~ ~ ""
.. 
~·~~~ 
-... 

Coaches Lou Holtz and Bo Schembechler, who served at the same time as Ohio State assistants in the late 1960s, have built one of the top rival­ries in the country during the past three years, games with heroes, goats and many surprises. 
In 1986, Notre Dame lost 24-23 at home in Holtz's debut as head coach. The following year at Michigan Stadium, Notre Dame handed Schembechler his first opening-game loss as the Wolverine coach, 26-7. Last year at Notre Dame Stadium, Irish kicker Reggie Ho provided the heroics, kicking a 27-yard field goal late in the game to give the hosts a 19-17 victory. 
"The game always has a storybook ending," Irish guard Tim Grunhard said. "I just hope it's a storybook end­ing for us this year." 
One streak must end in this game. Notre Dame has won 13 consecutive games, while Michigan has a streak of 10 straight games without a loss which includes a 17-17 tie to Iowa in 1988. Notre Dame has won two straight games against the Wolverines and no 
m •••• 
r;~_; 
.. .. 

Photo Courtesy of Michigan Athletic Public Relations 
Michigan split end Greg McMurtry spnnts ror tne end zone. Wot vl· t~INt ~ h) wA 1 Ct-t 
the second-ranked squad. Notre Dame 
has been involved in seven of those 
games, with a record of 3-0-1 as Jhe 
top team and 0-2-1 as the second­
ranked team. Michigan has been in­
volved in two such games, a 35-12 loss 
to No. 1 Notre Dame in 1943 and a 12­
10 loss to No. 1 Iowa in 1985. 
The last time Michigan held the pre­
season No. 1 ranking was in 19R2. The 
Wolverines lost to Wisconsin 21-14 in 
their first game. Notre Dame then as­
sumed the top spot and dropped a 25-7 
contest at Michigan. 
Irish offense vs. Wolverine defense 
The key for both the Irish offense and 
the Wolverine defense will be Notre 
Dame quarterback Tony Rice. When 
Rice goes, so go the Irish, evideneed by 
Rice's 16-2 record as the starting signal 
caller. If Michigan is to have any 
chance, it must control Hice. 
Hice passed and ran at will in the sea­
son-opener against Virginia in the 
Kickoff Classic. He completed 7 -of-11 
passes for 147 yards and carried eight 
times for 70 yards. 
Last year against Michigan, Rice ran 
seven times for 52 yards and orches­
trated drives that set up four Irish field 
goals. This year, the Michigan defense 
is ready. 

The front three of tackles Brent 
White, Warde Manuel and nose guard 
T.J. Osman form a solid base for the Wolverine defense. Said White, "Last year, I saw Tony Rice running that op­tion for touchdowns. This year, I see him running the option, but I don't see him running it into the end zone for a touchdown. I don't see that at all." 
Michigan is stronger at the linebacker spots with all four starters returning from a season ago. Inside linebackers 
J.J. Grant, one of Michigan's two cap­tains, and Erick Anderson recorded 77 tackles each last season, while Alex Marshall and Bobby Abrams combined for a total of 106 tackles in 1988. 
"The strength of our defense is our 
linebacking," Schembechler said. "We've 
got more depth and better linebacking 
then we have had in, ohh jees, I can't 
remember when." 
If the strength of the front and linebackers is not enough, The Sporting News rated Michigan's secondary as the top unit in the country. Safeties Tripp Welborne and Vada Murray combined for nine interceptions and 128 tackles in 1988. Short corner David Key and wide corner Lance Dottin round out the quartet that could give Rice problems. 
Rice's favorite target against Virginia was Haghib Ismail, who pulled down five passes for a career-high 121 yards. That duo could be challenged by that strong Michigan secondary. 
No one has been able to shut Rice and the Irish offense down in well over a year. Michigan has the talent to put an end to that streak. 
Wolverine offense vs. Irish defense 
This could be the biggest test of the The line of Tom Dohring (290 
pounds), Dean Dingman (292), Steve 
Everett (270). .Joe Cocozzo (294) and 
Greg Skrepenak (320) is the heaviest 
line in the history of Michigan football. 
Those f'ive will test an Irish ddnnse 
which surrenderPd just 3.6 yards per 
carry on the ground against Virginia in 
the Kickoff Classic. 
"They have some good linmnnn tlwn~." 
Irish ddensive end Scott Kowalkoski 
said. "The biggest thing you have to use 
is your quickness and not get timl up 
with them. You have to be big, but I 
think speed, quickness, knowing your 
assignment and technique help you 
more." 

The line hopes to give quartmback 
Michael Taylor pl<~nty of protection. In 
1988, Taylor completed 76-of-122 
passes for 957 yards and ruslwd RO 
times for 116 yards. Taylor is the lorw 
experienced quarterback for Michigan 
after senior Dmnetrius Brown was de­
dared academically ineligible. The per­
formance of Taylor, an explosive quar­
terback comparnd by many to Major 
Harris of West Virginia and Shawn 
Moore of Virginia, could determine 
Michigan's fortunes in the game. 
"He's a very competitive and elusive 
quarterback," Notre Dame nose guard 
Chris Zorich said. "We will treat him 
exactly the same way we treated Major 
Harris." 
In the Fiesta Bowl, Notre Dame hdd Harris to 13-of-26 passing for 166 yards and an interception. The Irish de­fense held Moore to 85 yards on 1 0-of­22 passes in the Kickoff Classic. 
Said Irish cornerback Todd Lyght, "Michael Taylor is an excellent Quarter­back. lie's very conservative in that he doesn't like to force the ball. lie likes to control the ball with a lot of running and a short passing game." 
Notre Dame will try to force Taylor into third and long situations where he is forced out of his gameplan. That would bring the strong Irish secondary of Lyght, Stan Srnagala, D'Juan Francisco and Pat Terrell into the pic­ture for Notre Dame. The quartet recorded 20 tackles and two intercep­tions against Virginia. 
"If we're able to shut down the run and force them to pass, we should be in good shape," Lyght said. 
When Taylor does pass, he will look for senior receivers Greg McMurtry and Derrick Walker. McMurtry pulled down 27 passes for 470 yards and three touchdowns last season, while Calloway caught 1 R passes for 272 yards and four touchdowns. Tight end Derrick Walker is also a threat after catching 15 passes for 260 yards and a touch­down in 19R8. 
The Wolverines arc also strong in the backfield with juniors Tony Boles, Leroy l!oard and .Jarrod Bunch. Boles carried the ball 262 times for 1408 yards in 1988, Hoard 130 times for 752 yards and Bunch 50 times for 221 yards. If the offensive line can clear a path, that trio could post some impressive num­bers Saturday afternoon. 

Bo Schembechler (Coach) Michael Taylor (QB) Tony Boles (TB) J.J. Grant (ILB) Vada Murray (S) 
The renowned head coach Taylor steps into the limelight This quick tailback was an All­Murray, a senior safety, is in
Co-captain Grant led the team 

now in his 21st season at as the Wolverine quarterback Big Ten pick by the the starting lineup again this
in tackles in 1988 with 77, de­

Michigan has a 184-46-5 with the absence of Associated Press last sea­year after seeing no action
spite missing the Wolverine's 

(.794) record with the Demetrius Brown. son after placing fourth in the his first two seasons.
final three games with a kneeWolverines. nation in rushing and all-pur­injury. 
pose yardage. 
----~--~------~----­
Smith off his crutches and on the field 
By MARTY STRASEN Sports Editor Emeritus 
Brent White grits his teeth when you ask him about open­ing the season against Notre Dame on Sept. 16. 
But the expression soon turns into a relieved smile. because this year when the defending national champions visit Michigan Stadium. White will throw around his 6-foot-5, 248-pound frame -instead of hurling a pair of crutches. 
"Every time someone brings up Notre Dame I have to grit my teeth, thinking of those last 

Brent White 
two losses (in 1987 and ·~8), " says the senior Wolverine de­fensive tackle. who recovered from a 1987 automobile acci­dent that seriously injured his knee and once threatened his football career. "I think of (former Irish lleisman winner) Tim Brown running back kicks and scoring touchdowns. If you look real close at the film from two years ago, you can see me throwing my crutches around on the sideline." 
Since arriving in Ann Arbor from his hometown of Dayton, Ohio, White has spent far too much time on the sidelines for his taste. The knee injury kept him out of the first seven games in 1987, and when here­
turned  he  managed just nine  
tackles in  the  remaining five  
outings.  

Considering White played in all 13 games as a freshman and was making a bid to start when the car accident sent those hopes reeling, a mere nine tackles were plenty of cause for gritting one's teeth. 
"Before the car accident I thought I was really on course," White says. "I was 
IRISH OFFENSE 
FLANKER 25 Raghib Ismail 8 Steve Belles 
TIGHT END 

very confident in my abilities. You reach a point where you know you can make things happen, and then something like that slaps the heck out of you and sets you back. 
"The worst part was the dragging out of rehab and not being able to play. And losing a starting spot because of injury -that made me really angry." 
And determined. All White could think about during his time off the field was football. 
"My girlfriend back at home got mad at me because I stopped writing," White recalls, smiling. "I've been told I'm hard-headed. pig-headed, stub­born and all that. But one thing I'm not is a quitter. Getting back to football was the only thing on my mind." 
When his return was not as impressive as he had hoped, White worked harder. Run. Lift weights. Practice pass-rushing 
moves: swim technique, rip technique. Get to the quarter­back. Grit the teeth. 
"Coach Reed (defensive line· coach Tom Reed) would look at me after I started playing, and one time he said, 'I guess it's back to the drawing board, ' I 
felt like I wanted to punch him, " says White, a former high school wrestler. 
His intensity was under­standable. Here was a former USA Today and Parade Magazine All-America high school star, the Midwest Player of the Year as a prep senior, a man who can get to the ball quickly and punish the unfortu­nate player holding it, faced with the thought of starting over. 
Says White: "It really was back to the drawing board, back to the beginning." 
The beginning of White's col­lege career almost took place somewhere else, following a re­cruiting process packed with as much drama as a Big Ten sea­son itself. 
Most of White's high school followers, naturally, expected him to commit to Ohio State. White made visits to the cam­pus in Columbus, watched Buckeye games and knew many of the assistant coaches even before the time approached to choose a college. 
"All I ever did was see myself in Ohio State colors. " he re-
see SMITH/ page 4 

P 
TAILBACK 12 Ricky Watters 5 Rodney Culver 
tf\ 22 FULLBACK Antho;x Johnson 

The Observer/E.G. Bailey 

Unlikely hero Reggie Ho celebrates with his teammates. 
Irish get a kick out of Ho 
By VIC LOMBARDI 
Sports Writer  
'Twas  the  show  where  Ho  
beat Bo.  
Reggie Ho,  a walk-on place­ 
kicker  who  decided  to  play  

football just because he "didn't want to be a geek," booted an Irish-record four field goals on the way to a 19-17 thriller over Bo Schembechler's Michigan Wolverines in the 1988 season­opener. 
Time Capsule 
Ho's 26-yard game-winner came with a minute and 18 sec­onds remaining, just before Michigan's Mike Gillette sent a 48-yarder wide right on the last play of the game. 
The senior pre-med major, who was better known for his 
3.8 grade-point average than his football prowess, became an instant hero after connect­ing from 31, 38 and 26 yards out before nailing the winner. 
"Nobody was going to hit me, so I wasn't too nervous," said the 5-5, 135 pound Hawaiian native. "But I have the best holder in the world in Pete Graham, the best snapper in the world in Tim Grunhard and 280-pound guys on the line." 
It was the young and unexpe­rienced offensive line, which in­cluded four first-game starters, that worried Irish coach Lou Holtz most. Yet, the big-men, led by All-America tackle Andy Heck, answered the call as Notre Dame took an early 13-0 lead. 
Sophomore flanker Ricky Watters brought back memo­ries of the great Tim Brown when he burst up the middle for a first-quarter 81-yard punt return. An extra-point by Ho gave the Irish a 7-0 advantage, as Bo was on his way to a sec­ond-consecutive loss to Notre Dame. 
After stifling two Michigan drives, the Tonys-Rice and Brooks-each scampered for 18-yard runs to set up Ho's 31­yard chipper with 29 seconds left in the first period. That made the score 10-0 and there was more to come. 
On the ensuing kickoff, the Irish recovered a fumble by Michigan's Leroy Hoard to set up Ho's second field goal from 38 yards out. With a 13-0 lead, the Irish were talking blowout. 
But Bo's troops refused to buckle. Michigan's next drive featured 62 yards of rough 'em-tough 'em running, the typ­ical Wolverine style. Quarterback Michael Taylor led the Michigan wishbone attack to set up Hoard's one-yard touchdown plunge. Suddenly, the score was 13-7 and Michigan had the momentum. 
The Wolverines struck again late in the third quarter after putting together another long, pounding drive. This time Taylor faked the handoff to Hoard up the middle and waltzed untouched into the endzone. The play juked the en­tire Notre Dame defense, in­cluding linebacker Mike Stonebreaker who finished with a game-high 19 tackles. Gillette converted the PAT and Michigan enjoyed its first lead, 14-13. 
The Irish pushed the ball on the following drive but had to settle for another field goal after being stopped on the Michigan 10. Ho's third kick, a 26-yarder, gave Notre Dame a 16-14 edge. 
After scoring in two of the three previous drives, Michigan's offense looked overpowering. With the ball on their own 20, Taylor pushed his troops across midfield before being stopped at the Irish 32. From there, Gillette nailed a towering 49-yard field goal to give the lead back to Bo and the Wolverines. 
Down 17-16, the Irish had 80 yards and 5:34 remaining to score. Tony Rice came out throwing. His first attempt to 
Ray Dumas drew a 15-yard in­terference penalty that moved the ball to the Irish 42. Two plays later, Rice flipped a screen over the middle to Brooks who scampered to the Michigan 38. After two time­outs and five straight running plays, Ho set up for the kick that made him famous. 
TAILBACK 42 Tony Boles 33 Leroy Hoard 

WOLVERINE OFFENSE ~ 
FULLBACK 32 Jarrod Bunch 

88 Frank Jacobs 64 Mike Brennan V9 3 Rick Mirer 71 Dean Brown ~ 89 Demck Walker 75 Greg SkrepenakV"9 83 Dave Diebolt 72 Doug Skene ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~EDohring
..O··rs P"fS"p P pt­
rr rr rr rr rr rr 70 Rob Doherty 
GUARD CENTER GUARD 
GUARD CENTER GUARD 52 Tim Ryan 55 Mike Heldt 75 Tim Grunhard 
68 Joe Cocozzo 51 Steve Everett 78 Dean Dingman 61 Tom Gorman 76 Gene McGuire 74 Mirko Jurkovic 
62 Marc Ramirez 69 Matt Elliott 63 Doug Daugherty 
NOSE TACKLE

IRISH DEFENSE ~J~~~.E0~~!~D WOLVERINE 
50 Chris Zorich TACKLE 99 Troy Ridgley TACKLE~:~~e~~ White 91 Mike Teeter ~~~~~~Hutchinson DEFENSE 
FLANKER 46 Burnie Legette 13 Pat Eilers 
~ 35 Ryan ihalko SPLITEND 2 Chris Calloway RT SPLGITEND 
84 Dan Jokisch QUA ERBACK 1 reg McMurtry
QUARTERBACK 82 William Pollard TACKLE Gii) 9 Tony Rice TACKLE tf\ 
TiGHT END TACKLE -~~ ~~~~~~a~lor 40 Derr~ickAlexander 
92 Mike Evans 
OUTSIDE LINEBACK.R • •
85 T1m Williams 45 Bnan Townsend 
INSIDE LINEBACKER 95 J. J. Grant • 30 John Milligan ~ 

CORNERBACK~ 
22 Lance Dottin 
w 

6 Todd Plate FREE SAFETY 
27 Vada Murray 
20 Corwin Brown 
INSIDE LINEBACKER 

INSIDE LIN!=BACKER A
• 37 Erick Anderson 

36 Donn Gnmm 
~ 55 Marc Spencer 

30 Nick Smith 
CORNERBACK 
1 Todd Ly!!ht 
~ 

A
21 Rod Sm1th

CORNI;RBACK 
~ STRONG SAFETY 26 David Key 
FREE SAFETY ~
WiJ 3 Tripp Welborne 8 Dwayne Ware 
15 Pat Terrell G!D
17 Otis Williams 

27 George Poorman 
93 Bob Dahl 90 Jeff Aim 
92 Mike Evans • • OUTSIDE LINEBACKER DEFENSIVE END 
24 Bobby Abrams 37 Scott Kowalkowski 

92 d-a d d ·~;r "·~~~i~!o
65 Neil Simpson 45 Devon McDonald 

A 
INSIDE LINEBACKER 47 Ned Bolcar 
48 Michael Smalls 
ACORNERBACK 

b-<1 STRONG SAFETY 29 Stan Smagala (][) 32 D'Juan Francisco 19 Shawn Davis 26 Greg Davis 
-.. 

IRISH EXTRA 
Friday. September 15. 1989 
White assured the NCAA that
Slllith 
Pitt made no illegal offers. And 

continued from page 3 Mother Nature, obviously a Big Ten fan, gave him time to change his mind before an-
calls. "Our high school uni­forms were the same colors nouncing his decision in a press (scarlet and gray), and my conference. coach had some good connec­"We got snowed in for three tions over there. I knew all of days and that gave me time to the assistant coaches thnre, the think," White says. "Pitt's in the trainers, everybody." city, and I hate the city. I hate 
But White also expressed in­everything about it. I wanted to terest in Michigan and be in a college town, and I loved Michigan State. In any case, it what I saw at Michigan. I looked as though the big Ten though Coach (Bo) was a sure bet. Schembcchler was the best; I 
Throughout the recruiting loved his approach to the game. process, White had agreed to "It was difficult to tell participate in the NCAA's "Big (Michigan State) Coach Brother" program. An NCAA (George) Perles and especially representative would make (former Ohio State) Coach regular telephone calls to his (Earle) Bruce 'no,' but I knew home, monitoring the recruiting Michigan was a groat school process for any suspected for me." violations by the sehools. Slow to commit to the 
"lie would call every eouple of Wolverines, now White ap­weeks and ask me if' anything proaehes a deadline of anothnr irregular was happening on any sort: his final season in maize
The Observer/File Photo
Michigan tailback Tony Boles knows the wrath of the Notre Dame 
of these visits, " White explains. and blue. defense. 
"It was no big deal. there really Last yf'ar he contributed sig­wasn't anything to tell." nificantly to one of the nation's improved a lot as far as being have hini here, but whether he's That is, until White himself most highly-regarded defenses,
Watters 

more physieal," said the here or not, I'll do my job." threw the NCAA a curve. but not as much as hn had once sophomore from Detroit. "He's Pittsburgh, specifically then­foreseen. Often lost in thecontinued from page 1 quiek in making his moves, but Instead, Watters has been Panther Coaeh Foge Fazio, shadow of' All-America tackle 
"I was always running cast­people will know we're both praising the talents of Culvf'r made an impression on White Mark Messner on the otlwr side west trying to look for a hole physical runners." and helping the younger runner as signing day approached. so of the ddensive line, White all the time," said Watters. One major difference in the along in his progress. much of an impression, in fact, compiled 31 tackles in 12 
"Tiw coaches told me just to offensive backfield that may or that White returned from a games. induding two for losses get what's necessary. If you may not have affected Watters' Watters has given Culver a visit there with his mind set on in the 19-17 opening-game set­need two yards, why go out­role on the team is the absence few tips in making the switch brushing off the Big Ten in fa­back against tho Irish at Notre side'?" of Brooks. The team's leading from fullback to tailback. vor of the Panthers. Dame Stadium. 
Hodney CulvN, who shares rusher last season, Brooks "He's helped me in adjusting "Coach Fazio and I hit it off With both Messner and the the tailback position with missed spring practice for aca­to the different routes and in perfectly," White says. "I had crutches gone this year, how­Watters, has noticed the demic reasons and was not learning to take time and do such a rush from that. I came ever, Whitn has put on his game change in his teammate's run­readmitted into the University things the right way," Culver back and decided to go to Pitt. face narly. ning style and physique. Culver this fall. said. When the NCAA found out "Last year I saw (Notre Dame repeatedly has heard the com­"I really don't know if it about that, they thought some­quarterback) Tony Hicn running parisons of the two backs that would have affected anything After all, Watters knows all thing peculiar was going on. All that option for touchdowns. call Culver the physical back or not," said Watters. "After about switching positions. But that time I had three Big Ten This year, I see him running it and Watters the quick back. the spring, I was the starting it looks like he's finally found a schools in mind, and now I was into the end zone for a 
"People say that, but lUcky's tailbaek anyway. I'd like to home. talking about Pitt." -touchdown. I don't see that at N d t h •til " 
DEPTH CHARTS · 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE NOTRE DAME DEFENSE MICHIGAN DEFENSE MICHIGAN OFFENSE 

Sl\  13  Pal Ell•rs  5-11  193  Sr.  HJ(  37  Scott Kowalkowski  6-2  226  Jr.  OLIJ  85  Tim Williams  6-3  237  Jr.  SE  (in·g McMurtry  r •. :J  2or.  Sr.  
82  William Pollard  6-5  210  Fr  45  Devon McDonald  6-3  228  So.  45  Brian Towmwnd  6·3  228  So.  40  ll. Ai<•xandl'r  6-1  i70  Fr.  
QT  f>4  Mike Brennan  f>-5  260  Sr.  I.T 9:!  Bob Dahl  6-5  263  Jr.  llT  88  llrent Whit<•  6-4  253  Sr.  QT  7:l  Tom llohring  6-7  2'!0  .Jr.  
53  Winston Sandri  6·4  275  Jr.  92  Hrynn Flanm,ry  6-3  253  Sr.  92  Mik(~ Evans  6-3  252  So.  70  Bob lloiwrty  h-4  2<Jh  Fr.  
QG c  52 61 55  Tim Ryan Tom Gorman Mike ll•ldl  6-4 6-6 r.-4  259 265 265  Jr. Sr. Jr.  NT  50 99  Chris Zorirh Troy Hidgi"Y Andrt• .Jom•s  6-1 6-4 6-4  268 250 215  Jr. So. Jr.  MG ST  94 91 97  TJ Osmon Mike Tentnr Chris llutrhinson  6-3 6-3 6-2  u.z 257 260  Jr. Sr. Fr.  I.G 78 r.:l c 51  ll<•an llingham Doug Dauglwrty SlPV<" 1-:vrrrll  r.-2 6<1 6-5  2'!2 26:1 270  .Jr. .Jr. Fr.  
76  Gerw MrGulre  6-5  259  So.  98  Shawn Smith  6-3  206  Fr.  92  MikP Evans  6-:l  192  So.  Mall Elliol  6-4  2f>'J  SO.  
Tim (;runhard  f>-3  292  Sr  El.B  36  llonn Grimm  6-2  2.11  Jr.  01.8  24  Bobby Abrams  6-3  229  Sr.  i!G  68  Jo•• <:oco7.zo  r.-:1  2'!4  Fr.  
74  Mlrko Jurkovic  6-5  279  So.  :JO  Nick Smith  6-3  225  Fr.  65  Neil Simpson  6-1  222  So.  62  Man· Hurnirez  6-1  270  .Jr.  
TT  71  Bran Brown  b-3  291  Sr.  Ml.ll 47  Ned llolrar  6-2  229  Sr.  ll.B  95  6-0  245  Sr.  ST  75  Gr<•g Skrep<•nak  (,.(,  :l20  So.  
72  Joe Allen  6-4  288  Jr.  48  Mlchani Smalls  6-3  223  So.  55  Marr. Spenr.t~r  6·5  243  Jr.  72  Doug Sk1•nn  6·6  288  Fr.  
TB  8  hank Jacobs  6-5  234  Jr.  FCIJ  Todd l.yght  6-1  181  So.  sen  26  llavid Key  5-10  198  Jr.  TE  8'!  llerrirk Walk<•r  f>-1  248  Sr.  
85  1>er1~k Brown  6-7  235  So.  21  Hod Smith  6-1  183  So.  Dwayne Ware  5-10  198  Fr.  83  llavP lliPbolt  6-4  256  So.  
Qll  <J  Tony Rire  6·1  200  Sr.  SCB  29  Stan Smagala  5-11  186  Sr.  ss  Tripp Welborne  6-U  199  Jr.  FI.K  2  Chris Calloway  5· 10  IHO  Sr.  
l!ick Mlmr  6-3  205  Fr.  19  Shawn Davis  6·0  181  So.  17  Otis Williams  6·1  198  So.  84  l>nn .Jukiseh  6-5  215  So.  
I'll  22  A. Johnson  6-0  220  Sr.  ss  32  IJ.J Francisco  5-11  182  Sr.  FS  27  Vadn Murray  6·3  193  Jr.  Qll  9  Mkhael Taylor  f>·O  l'JO  Sr.  
35  Ryan  Mihalko  6-2  234  Jr.  26  Greg Davis  6-1198  Jr.  20  Corwin Brown  6-1  185  Fr.  15  Elvis Grnar  6-5  220  Fr.  
Til  12  Rlrky Wallers  6-2  199  Jr.  FS  15  Pal Terrell  6-0  195  Sr.  WCB 22  Lanr• llotlin  6-1  199  So.  I'll  32  .larrod llunrh  r.-2  241  Jr.  
Rodm•y Culver  6·0  219  So.  27  George Poorman  6-2  191  So.  6  Todd Plate  6-0  194  Jr.  46  llurni<• l.egelln  6·1  221  Fr.  
H  25  Haghlb Ismail  5-10  175  So.  p  16  Edwurdo Azr.om•  5-9  189  Fr.  Til  42  Tony lloles  6-i  1'!0  .Jr.  
K  18  Steve Belles Billy llarkell  6·4 (,.J  217 194  Sr. Jr.  K  18 12  Chris Stapleton Gulam Khan  6-0 5-8  197 159  Fr. Sr.  33 28  l.••roy Jloard 1\.Jipn .h~fTerson  5-10 6-2  220 2CXJ  .Jr. .Jr .  
28  Craig llenlrirh  6·1  175  Fr.  38  .JD Carlson  5-10  179  So.  
p  16  .lim S•xlon  6-0  183  Jr.  
28  Craig llentrlch  6-1  175  Fr.  
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS  
Each  week,  The  Observer  
sports staff,  a  random student  
picked by the sports department  
and  some  well-known  figure in  
the Notre Dame community pre­ 
dict the outcomes of the week's  
major college  football  games.  
Hecords are eompiled as to how  
eaeh person does against the spread. In other words, it isn't enough· to pick the winner of a givnn game. The person must pick the winner and give the un­df'rdog points.  Theresa Kelly Sports Editor 0-0-0 .000  Steve Megargee Associate Sports Editor 0-0-0 .000  Greg Guffey Assistant Sports Editor 0-0-0 .000  Molly Mahoney Assistant Sports Editor 0-0-0 .000  Heather Atkinson SMC Sports Editor 0-0-0 .000  Frank Starns Guest Celebrity 0-0-0 .000  Brenden Beck Random Student 0-0-0 .000  
r  PENN ST. over Temple by 20 Brigham Young over NAVY by 11 INDIANA over Missouri by 7 NEBRASKA over Utah by 31  Nittany Lions Midshipmen Hoosiers Cornhuskers  Nittany Lions Cougars Hoosiers Utes  Nittany Lions Midshipmen Hoosiers Utes  Owls Cougars Hoosiers Utes  Nittany Lions Midshipmen Hoosiers Utes  Nittany Lions Midshipmen Hoosiers Corn huskers  Nittany Lions Cougars Hoosiers Utes  
WASHINGTON over Purdue by 20  Huskies  Boilermakers  Boilermakers  Boilermakers  Huskies  Boilermakers  Huskies  
MIAMI over California by 27  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  Golden Bears  
Air Force over N'WESTERN by 13  Falcons  Falcons  Falcons  Falcons  Falcons  Falcons  Falcons  
LSU over Florida St. by 1 .5  Tigers  Seminoles  Seminoles  Seminoles  Seminoles  Seminoles  Seminoles  
COLORADO over Illinois by 5.5  lllini  Buffalo  lllini  lllini  lllini  lllini  Buffalo  
Virginia over GEO. TECH by 5.5  Cavaliers  Cavaliers  Cavaliers  Cavaliers  Cavaliers  Yellow Jackets  Cavaliers  
W. VIRGINIA overS. Carolina by 8  Gamecocks  Gamecocks  Mountaineers  Mountaineers  Mountaineers  Mountaineers  Mountaineers  
WYOMING over Hawaii by 4 Oklahoma over ARIZONA by 7 MICHIGAN over Notre Dame by 1  Cowboys Sooners Irish  Cowboys Sooners Irish  Cowboys Sooners Irish  Cowboys Sooners Irish  Cowboys Sooners Irish  Cowboys Sooners Irish  Cowboys Sooners Irish  'l ~I  

1_-----------=---=--=--======__......_
I -page 11 

the 1989 road tripping season 

all else fails and no place to stay in the lte vicinity, you can :!rive back to South ce the festivities have 
se of Michigan's close 
v. this weekenrl nro­
ideal opportunity to weekend-awav from Ind. The roadtrip to 
or will be the first of ch excursions for Irish let the games begin! 
pots 
10d-exotic pasta, food, and poultry. The kill you, but the bar free pistachios. The reason alone to eat ou want hip with style lance, dine here. 
i' LAKES SHIPPING IY, 3965 S. State­:e is dark. As for the 
heavy, buttery. and s also quite good. Not ~ht eater. With nd steaks, Great rays comes through in 
'S, 314 S. Fourth-A nother lode of food mits you at this . If you're watching It, Maude's has great 
\ chicken dishes. Nice, al, and light. 
AFOOD CO.,-The 1h in town, the Com-definitive choice if buds long for 
e. The only problem ·e are so many great 10ices, this is not for lve. 
GTON STREET 114 E. Washington­is best described as 
tween Hennigan's and leer. 
(S. 1100 Catherine­orning after it's the 
• The best French side of the Riviera. 
iLL MOON, 207 S. e Full Moon is always l drink and a burger, :tave more liquor !an any bar this side of Douglas County, Wisconsin. The place to unwind. 
THE BROWN JUG, 1024 S. University-Call it greasy, call the wait staff slow, insult it any way you want. But no other place better defines Michigan. The best grilled cheese in the world, and be sure to try the nachos. Open to 3 a.m. on weekends. · 
DENNY'S, 330 E. Liberty-If you're homesick for South Bend, why not "get slammed" at Denny's-home of the "Grand Slam Breakfast." The hours are around the clock, the prices are very reasonable, and the food is typically Denny's. A great place to watch the sun rise over Ann Arbor. 
Since Ann Arbor is such a large college town, there should be no shortage of places to go before and after the game. In fact, if there's going to be a shortage of anything, it will probably be the amount of money you have left in your wallet after a long weekend at the University of Michigan. 
F 
_.. 

Maps from N.D. to Ann Arbor... From Ann Arbor to victory ... from victory to celebrations. 
Map courtesy of the Senior Class. 
CALLING ALL. ROADTRIPPERS! 
Do you have a roadtrip story that is out-of-the-ordinary? Don't keep it to yourself, tell the whole campus about your experience through the Observer. 
.... The Accent department is looking for funny and bizarre roadtrip stories to run 
in the Sept. 29 issue of the Observer. To get your story in the paper, prepare a well-written, typed essay describing your journey and submit it to the Accent department at the Observer office on the third floor of the LaFortune Student . All entries must be submitted by 2 p.m. on Sept. 22, and the Observer the right to edit any entries. If we chose to run your story, you will be tacted prior to publication. Call Robyn Simmons at 239-7471 if there are any 
-

,_.-------~~-~-~ ---~-­
Friday, September 15, 1989

page 12 The Observer 
Medjugorje apparitions versus Mater dolorosa 
This is the feast of Our Lady deliver us from the wicked of Seven Sorrows. The Congre­fiend. "Religion begins with the gation of lloly Cross (C.S.C.) God of Salvation; and we do not throughout the world is cele­ask I lim to save us from Him­brating its devotion to the self." We ask Him to save us Mother of Sorrows, chosen un­from our enemy and His; that der that title by our founder, is, from the forces of evil. Father Robert Griffin  things that they may have to say about the spiritual life are thrown into limbo by the big mistake they are making. God is not the enemy from whom we need to be saved-for is He not acting like our enemy if He is waiting to zap the human race with punitive horrors? Satan is the enemy; we need to be saved from the devil and all his  wars that could end in a nu­clear holocaust are the Lord's doing, and not those of mankind's ancient enemy-or if He is going to allow these ter­rible things to happen, because He is displeased with us, maybe we should all become atheists. Then we'd only have half as much to worry about, because we'd only have one cruel enemy  Christian religion loses its meaning; because Christ, loving Ilis own, cannot save them, by His love, from hell and high wa­ter; out of deference to the anger of llis Father, lie has to allow them to be trashed, though, like llis enemies at the cross, they don't know what they're doing, p,ither. I preft~r to trust in Mary, as  
Letters to a Lonely God  works; we need to be saved from our wayward selves if we  we'd need to be afraid of. It does Mary no honor to say  the -maid-servant oi the Lord of Salvation; lie's not running  
have become tripped up by the  that it's up to her to save us  neck in neck with Satan, to give  
Father Moreau. to one  devilish pomps and snares. Why  from the bad temper of the God  us the back of I lis hand. Our  
principle patrons of our reli­gious community. Hemembering  Satan is the  would we need to be saved from the God of Salvation? Medju­ of Salvation. If that's the way that Medjugorje and the other  Lady knows how dangerous life is, but she knows we are not in  
"Stabat MatP.r dolorosa/luxta crucmn laerimosa/Dum pende­ enemy; we need  gorje has Him confused with the God of wrath whom we  private revelations picture her, then Catholics should distrust  danger from God. If we were in danger from I lim, as well as  
bat Filius" ("There was stand­ing the sorrowing Mother, be­ to be saved from  meet early in the Bible. By the time Isaiah wrote, He had de­ her as much as the fundamen­talist Protestants do, because,  from the world, thn flesh, and the devil, the Christian life  
side the cross weeping while her Son hung upon it"). I'm rmnindnd why I have such deep doubts about the alleged ap­paritions at Medjugorje. Picture a simple country woman who has lost a young child. She complains of the  the devil and all his works ... which we may personify as Sa­tan; at least we should make sure that we do not identify those forces of evil with God.  cided to lay aside His anger, and He had made up His mind that lie would die for us as the Suffering Servant. The God whom Christians worship is a forgiving God Who wills not the death of a sinner, for it is His will that the sinner be con­ as they say, she gets in the way of Christ. I'm not out to rain on anyone's parade. Medjugorje may be beautiful; and that's not surprising, because millions of beautiful people go there. Su­pernatural things happen to the Pentacostalists every time  would be too confusing; and thn justice of God, if it has the last word over love, would be alto­gether unfair. I don't know why I should keep thn peace about Mndju­gorje-as I try to do, on cam­pus at least-while the hype  
agony imposed on her by the belief that whatever happens is the direct will of God. It is in­tolerable for her to see that perfect little body deprived of life; it is doubly tormenting for her to think God has played this dirty trick on her. She is tempted to d11ny God, rather than believe heaven can be so unkind. A wise, wonderful Anglican priest points out that this un­happy mother has stood reli­gion on its head. Heligion does not begin, he says, with the as­surance that everything is un­der the hand of almighty Provi­dence. Heligion bP.gins from a world touched with glories, and shot through with agonies, and we call upon the God of glory to  As with disasters, so with temptations: "They are not the direct inflictions of a divine pastoral strategy, twisting our tails for the good of our souls." For God does not need to invent temptations to try us. Our own wayward desires, the bad ex­ample of our neighbors, and the trials inevitable in a world of creatures colliding with each other, will provide us with temptations enough. We cry to the God of Salvation to rescue us from mischief. As far as I can see, the chil­dren of Medjugorje, bringing us warnings of God's impending anger and the punishment of the world that lies ahead, are contradicting the hope offered by the Gospel. The helpful  verted and Jive. How complicated the problem of suffering would become if Christians were back on square one, trying to placate an angry God, in contradiction to the revelation we have from Jesus, Who showed us the love in His Father's face. Then the Chris­tian would be under duress. on the one hand, from the fallen angels; on the other hand, God, in this scenario, would be standing in the wings, waiting to box Christian ears through some world-wide calamity that would, without doubt, bring undeserved punishment on the four-fifths of mankind to whom the Gospel has never been preached. If famines, earthquakes, and genocidal  Jimmy Swaggart preaches to them. The lightning from on high strikes repeatedly wher­ever the faith-climate is right; even non-Christians have mira­cles to boast of. The world is in terrible shape; I'm not too blind to see that. People need to be saved from the consequences of the mis­takes they are making. Some of the mistakes could leave losers deprived of grace-incapable of loving and being loved, possibly forever; and this would be the hell they have created for them­selves. Yet God is on their side, yesterday, today, and forever. If He isn't, the New Testament is flawed by false promises. The Medjugorje message could be right; but if it is, the rest of the  keeps going, tempting thn stones to cry out about the way Catholic Christianity is being turned on its head. Catholics who keep their eyes fixed on a hillside in Yugoslavia where a cross has been plantnd, for a warning of the terror to eome, should glance back at that other hillside outside the Jerusalem wall. Calvary's cross, like the appearance of thn rain­bow in Noah's sky, initiated a covenant of peace; and as a sign of love and reeonciliation, it has no rivals. This is the cross the Mother of Sorrows stood by, weeping. What else could have brought her from there on Golgotha to Medju­gorje except the imagination of children?  


FOREIGN POLICY WEEK 
The general purpose of this week is to initiate a dialogue on the topic of foreign relations, with special emphasis on the place of the United States in a changing world. 
** Monday, Sept. 18, A Debate between the College ** Thursday, Sept. 21, Address by David and Marjorie Democrats and the Young Republicans, concerning issues of Ransom; "Making the Dual Career Family Work: Perspectives foreign relations Theodore's 7:30pm from the Foreign Service" Hayes-Healy 122 8:00pm Co-sponsored by the Hesburgh Program in Public Service Gender Studies 
•• Tuesday, Sept. 19, Lecture by the Hon. Robert McFarlane; 
The Year of the Family 
"The Changing Distribution of Global Power'' Washington Hall 8:00pm ** Friday, Sept. 22, David & Marjorie Ransom: Meeting with students interested in Foreign Service 
307 O'Shag. 9:30-11 :30am 
"** Wed~esday, Sept. 20, Lecture by Dr. Daniel Ellsberg; 
Co-sponsored by the Hesburgh Program in Public Service 
Appropnate Responses of Government Officials to Unlawful War" 
Institute of International Peace Studies 
Washington Hall 8:00pm 
Co-sponsored by The Center for Social Concerns 
TICKET INFORMATION: 
Ticket sales for Robert McFarlane and Daniel Ellsberg will be on sale at the LaFortune Information Desk beginning on Wednesday, September 13. 
Prices:Robert McFarlane 
Notre Dame Community$3.00 Others $5.00 
Daniel Ellsberg 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Notre Dame Community $2.00 Other $4.00 


The Observer accepts ctass1fled; e1very busmess day from 10 a m to 3 30om ,JI t11e Notre Dame off1ce. 314 LaFortune. ~nd from 12.30 to 3 p m. at the Samt Marys offlc.e Haggar College Center Deadlme tor next day classlfleds IS 3 p m. All claSSifleds n1ust be 
prepa1d The charge IS 2 cents per character per day mcludmg spaces
Classifieds 
NOTICES TYPING Pickup & Delivery 277-7406  WANTED: Male or female student photographer, experienced in all phases of photography including darkroom, to work 12 hours/week in ultra-modern University photographic facility. Call Bruce Harlan or Jaime Cripe 239-7350.  NEED 4 TIX FOR Ml STATE! PLEASE CALL #3803 NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN STATE GAME. WILL PAY CASH OR EXCHANGE 2 GA'S FOR NAVY GAME. CALL TIM,  NEED 2 MICH ST GAS--WILLING TO PAY. CALL AMY AT2654. HELP! Need 4 Pitt GAs for my family Call Chad x1132  H.......E....L ... P NEED 2-4 GA'S (TOGETHER) FOR ANY GAME. WILL PAY BIG MOOLAH ($$). PLEASE CALL JEFF 277-3998. DESPERATE$$$  Need 2 GA and I stud. ticket for Michigan State. Call Chris x1067 We need Michigan State Tickets: 2 GA and 2 student Call Richard or Andrea at 271-0519  
PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard 3 blks. from NO campus 233-2342 $$$ FOR YOUR BOOKS WE BUY AND SELL USED TEXTBOOKS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  Need rides to BRANFORD MARSALIS and/or P~T METHENY concerts (15th & 24th) Please call Brian x3367  FLANNER HALL EXT. 1143. NEED 2 USC & 2MICH ST. TIX PLEASE!! X1058  Need 1 STU for Mich Stand 4 SMU GAS Kim3881 Need up to 4 Mich St & 8 Pitt TIX Money no problem!! Mike X1236  NEED ONE USC STUDENT TICKET. MONEY NO OBJECT' CALL TONY AT 1468. NEED 1 MICH. ST. STUDENT, 1  $$ Frenzied Alums need USC tix. Will pay big$$ Call John x2299 NEED 2 TIX FOR MICH ST. HAVE PITI & BIG$$ CALL JIM X1653  
USC TIC, HAVE 1 SMU STUD.$$  
My husband & I are longing to  CHRIS 1861.  WILL TRADE 2 ROLLING  
adopt a child. We have gone  Now hiring part time waitress for  WANTED-"10" PITI-NOTRE  STONES TIX (CINCINNATI, SEPT.  
through a home study and have  lunch and dinner hours. Apply  DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  NEED 2 GA'S FOR PITI.  14) FOR 2 USC GA'S CALL TIM  
been approved by a licensed agency. If you should know of anyone who is considering releasing a child for adoption, please call Marie or Rick collect (219) 259-0160  2-5pm at Oriental Express 6329 University Commons Just west of Univ Park Mall on State Road 23, next to Kroger. 272-6702  SAT. 10/28/89. PLEASE CALL PAT COLLECT AT (412) 372-3000. NEED MICH. STATE TIX!! Stud. orGA CALL Mike #2742  I need Mich. state tix--GAs and student tix for my wealthy girlfriend and her family. Please call John at 3586 and leave a message.  CALL DAVE 1597. HELP! I NEED 2 TIX TO THE MICH. STATE GAME. PLS. CALL MAURA X288-0885.  X3574 HELP EDUCA TE"MY CULTURALLY REPRESSED RELATIVES FROM WYOMING BY SELLING ME 2 GA'S TO MICH ST.  
Word processing experience plus BA in English 271-0682.  BUMPED FROM YOUR FLIGHT? I'LL BUY YOUR FREE TICKET! Julie x2645  NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN STATE GAME. WILL EXCHANGE  I Need USC-SMU-PITI-MICH TIX CALL TODD AT x4358 or 4618  NEED 1 OR 2 GA'S FOR ANY HOME GAME!! JIMBO (LEAVE MESSAGE) 289-6864.  X1859 NEED 4 MICHIGAN STATE GA'S  
2 GA'S FOR USC, 2 GA'S FOR  AND ONE STUDENT. WILLING  
If you haven't picked up your  NAVY OR PAY CASH. CALL TIM,  NEED MICH. ST. TIX!!  TO PAY GOOD$$$$ X3107-JIM  
Value Check coupon book, please  Desperately seeking 4 MSU and 4  FLANNER HALL, EXT. 1143.  I'LL GIVE YOU ANYTHING.  271-9895 -TESSA  
pick them up from the Information  PittGA's  Culturally deprived relatives  CALL TRACY 3865.  
Desk, 1st Floor LaFortune.  Call Jenny at 284-4213  coming to see big-time football.  NEED GA'S FOR USC, NAVY,  
Open 9am-9pm weekdays, and  HELP ME  Need two stud. tix. for Pitt game so  PLEASE! FAMILY COMING FROM  MIAMI. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS.  
Noon-9pm weekends.  YOU NEED MONEY, WE NEED  ~ NEED MICH ST. & USC TIX  they can experience true culture.  CA. NEED MICH. ST. OR USC TIX.  CALLX2335.  
MONEY. CHICAGO-BASED  2 G.A.'S & 4STUDS.  Call David E. X4364  HAVE$$ OR TIX TO TRADE. PLS.  
TYPING AVAILABLE.  INNOVATIVE SPORTSWEAR  CALL NICOLE X2818  CALL CRAIG EGAN 3383. THANX.  •..........REM FANs•••..••••••••  
287-4082.  COMPANY SEEKS CAMPUS  I HAVE 2 TIX FOR THE ALPINE  

 SALES REPRESENTATIVE. MUST  I NEED 2 MICHIGAN STATE GA'S.  VALLEY SHOW 9/30 FOR YOU!  
LOST/FOUND Lost: pr. black Vuarnets. Left at LaFortune's Auto-bank teller on  BE CREATIVE AND ENTHUSIASTIC. PLEASE PHONE 312-943-6105. MOM NEEDS RESPONSIBLE  NEED PITI GA'S WILL DO ANYTHING TO GET THEM CALL MARK 1400  NEED 2 SMU TIX-GA OR STU. NAME YOUR PRICE!!! CALL MATI #3489  BIG MONEY OR TRADE FOR PITI TICKETS. CALL LANCE 1382. HELP! NEED 2 MSU GA'S AND 3  PARKING IS INCL. CALL MEG AT 2894 WANTED: 1 OR 2 MICHIGAN STATE STUDENT OR GA  
9/11, at It :05 AM . Call Tim X4043  STUDENT TO HELP WI 9 YR OLD  USC GA'S! LARGE EXPENSE  TICKETS. CALL MICHELLE AT  
FOUND: PR. OF HARD CONTACTS outside of LYONS HALL. Please see Sister Jeannine of Lyons if they are yours.  BOY. MUST HAVE OWN TRANSPO. FOR MORE INFO CALL BETH@ 234-7444. THE GROOVE IS LOOK FOR A  NEED 4 MICH. ST. GA OR STUDENT BADLY . WILLING TO PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL ERICH AT X1622.  MICHIGAN STATE GA TIC NEEDED FOR DAD. WILL PAY BIG $$$. CALL 1224. NEEDED: Stu. NAVY. Have PITI or  ACCOUNT. CALL K. 2597. HELP! I NEED TICKETS 12SMU 2USC  2677. NEED 2 PITI GA'S PLEASE CALL KATHY X2761  
BASS PLA YEA. ANYONE  $$$.Contact Matt X2647 Sleds  AND A TICKET TO ANY HOME  WE DESPERATELY NEED  
FOUND: MIKE FROM MAINE, I FOUND YOUR WALLET IN Ct/01 LOT ON 9/11 . TO CLAIM CALL 1069. FOUND: TAN PUPPY WITH LEATHER COLLAR NEAR TURTLE CREEK. CALL 272-8124 OR 272-7759. LOST -GOLD HS CLASS RING W!TIGER ON FACE & STATE CHAMPIONSHIP RING, BOTH FROM ROCK SPRINGS HIGH SCHOOL. LARGE REWARD OFFERED. X1861  INTERESTED? DIG. CALL LEROY AT X2932 OR LOLIN X1354 BABYSITIER NEEDED FOR 11 MONTH OLD. ANY OR ALL MORNINGS (8-12) A WEEK. 4 HOUSES OFF ANGELA. 234­8743. ATIENTION: EXCELLENT INCOME FOR HOME ASSEMBLY WORK. INFO. CALL 504-646-1700 DEPT. P5868. Help! I need a "Notre Dame Dry" !-shirt. Please call Alice x4885  WILL TRADE 2 MICH.ST./ND FOOTBALL TIX AND/OR 1 HOTEL ROOM FOR NO/USC WEEKEND FOR 2 NO/USC FOOTBALL TIX. CAL (407) 727-8354 Travel Tour Operator needs tickets lor all N.D. games -home and away, especially MSU, USC and Miami. Premium price paid. Immediate case available. Will trade for all major sporting events including Final 4, Indy 500 and bowl game, etc. Will also buy season tickets. Please call Dave at 1-800-828-8955 today.  WANTED: USC vs. NO TICKETS 24hr. answering service (213) 487· 4161 Home (213)422-2812 NEED 5 MICH ST. TIX CALL DAVE 283-1417 HAVE 4 PITI, 4 SMU GA'S TOGETHER, WILL TRADE FOR USC, MSU, OR NAVY GA'S-CALL PAT-287 9341-239 7505  GAME FOR MY SISTER AT WEST VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY WHO WANTS TO SEE A REAL FOOTBALL GAME. CALL GINA AT 2690 I NEED GA'S FOR ALL HOME GAMES AND MIAMI. WILL PAY BIG. X2335 I ABSOLUTELY MUST HAVE 2 GA'S FOR SMU!! GRANDPARENTS; PLEASE CALL STEVE X2400  TICKETS TO ANY HOME GAME. WILLING TO PAY BIG$$! PLEASE HELP! CALL X1338 ASK FOR JENNIFER OR EVELYN NEED ANY OR ALL STU. TIX. FOR NEW ROOMMATE. PLEASE HELP! 271-5686 AFTER THE ILLINOIS GAME WHO WANTS TO SEE USC? MY SISTER, THATS WHO. I NEED 2 USC PLEASE CALL PETE 3373. I NEED 6 PITI TICKETS CALL 277-9281 OR X2760. WILL PAY$$$$$$$$$  
LOST: GOLD CLADDAGH RING OUTSIDE O'SHAG. DIAMOND STONE REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE CALL X2670 OR 277-9281 IF FOUND. Lost Gold HS class ring w/tiger on face & State Championship ring  Singer, male or female for a primarily accoustic band Chuck x 3302 FOR RENT  WANTED: 4 NO/USC tickets. Pat Burns (317)848-1500 or (317) 758-4056 (nights). HELP FULFILL MY GRANDPARENT'S LIFELONG DREAM. SELL ME 2 MICHIGAN STATE GAS. CALL PETE 288­2348 AFTER 6 PM .  I NEED 3 MICH. ST. GA'S CALL BILL X4274 WANTED: 2 MICHIGAN STATE GA's. Am willing to TRADE 2 MICHIGAN STATE student tickets plus CASH. Call Michelle 2677.  HELP, THE WHOLE FAMILY IS COMING FOR USC, SO WE NEED LOTS OF TICKETS. WILLING TO PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL JOHN OR ERIK AT 1622 I NEED MICH. ST TICKETS. YOU NEED SOME CASH. CALL KEN AT 3277. I NEED TWO TICKETS FOR THE  Need two SMU tix please call 284­4930!!!!!!!!!! NEED 2 GA AND 1 STU TICKET FOR MICH ST. CALL CHRIS AT X1067. NEED SEVERAL PITI GA'S PLEASE!! #2819  
Both from Rock Springs High  6 BEDROOM HSE 8 BLKS FROM  $$$$USC TICKETS NEEDED$$$  MICH. ST. GAME. PLEASE CALL  
School Large reward offered xt861  NO. ROOMS FOR RENT OR TAKE ENTIRE HSE. 288-3613.  GA'S OR STUDENT IF YOU CAN HELP, PLEASE CALL CAROL AT 283-4220.  HELP! I NEED 2 MICH ST TIX. PLEASE CALL KRIS X2674  LAWLOR AT 3287 I NEED USE TIX PLEASE! MY  
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  UTILE BROTHERS ALREADY  
Lost­ 219-291-7153.  BOUGHT THEIR PLANE TIX. IF  
22k gold chain w/pendant on 9/5  """"DON'T GO TO MICHIGAN""""  YOU HAVE STUDENT OR GA  
on campus. Call Shyla Paul or lv. Message 283. 3514  HAVE YOUR PARENTS STAY AT THE "IRISH B&B" FOR  SELL ME YOUR TICKET FOR $45 -MARK 271-5691  PLEASE! I NEED 5 MICH STTIX! CALL MARIA X2870  TICKETS CALL SEAN AT 2011 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  FOR SALE: 1 USC STUD. TICKET. JENNIFER AT 232-9061  
LOST: BLUE 10 CASE containing NO temporary id card, Validine, Detex. Lost on Mon. 9/11 between 12:15 and I :15 in 123 Nieuwland or  FOOTBALL WEEKEND5-RING 272-7738 APARTMENT AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY! $180 I MO FULLY FURNISHED. ROOM  Help, the whole family is coming for USC, so we need lots of tickets. Willing to pay big bucks. Call John or Erich at x1622. NEED CASH ???  DESPARATE FOfl2 MSU GA'S AND USC STUD. WILL TRADE A Pin JOHN2207  NEED USC GA TIX CALL CHERI 2605 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ HELP! NEED 2 MICH ST. TIX! $X1308  NEEDED TWO MICHIGAN STATE TIX -STUD OR GA. HELP TWO ALUMNI. CALL #4041 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
between Nieuwland and NOH. If found, please call Kathy at x3948.  FOR 4. CALL NOW-288-7183! FOR SALE  Sell me 2 GA's for MICHIGAN ST. Call Laura x2851  I NEED 8 MSU GA'S. CALL BRIAN 288-8527 OR KIM 284-4169. LET'S TRADE!  IF YOU HAVE MICH. ST. TIX TO SELL CALL 1308  I NEED HELP. 3 GA and 2 Student tickets needed for the USC game. Call John at 2005 if you can help.  
LOST: IF ANY ONE PICKED UP MY JEAN JACKET AT SENIOR  COLOR TV RENTALS  Need 1 tix for Michigan State Student or G.A.  HAVE: HOTEL ROOMS FOR MICHIGAN STATE WEEKEND.  NEED 2 GA'S AND 2 STUDENT TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN STATE  
BAR WEDNESDAY NIGHT, PLEASE CALL JOHN OWENS #3087. IT HAS MY LAUflDRY TAG ON IT. THANKS. WANTED ATIENTION: EXCELLENT INCOME FOR HOME ASSEMBLY WORK. INFO. CALL 504-646-1700 DEPT. P5868. SHENANIGANS is looking for spirited bass, piano, sax, and horn players. Interested? call Walter @ 271-0758. Sunchase Tours is currently recruiting Campus  13-INCH, $50/SEM, $80/YR; 19-INCH, $70/SEM, $120/YR; 25-INCH, $90/SEM, $160/YR CALL ANYTIME FOR FREE DELIVERY COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272­5959 Round-trip ticket anywhere in the contiguos U.S. $100. Call: #1693. For Sale -1980 Dodge Aspen $750. Grad student needs $. 272-9027 1972 OLDSMOBILE NINETY­EIGHT. GOOD CONDITION. CALL 291-8283 AFTER 5:00 P.M.  $Cash$ or trade(USC or PITI) Call Mike 2031 NEED GA's: 2 for Pitt and 3for USC call Sue x2485 NEED 1 STUDENT TICKET lor U of M game! Kathleen 283-4930 I NEED 2 SMU STUDENT TIX -­PLEASE CALL BILL AT 3340 NEED 3 MICH ST. TIX CALL KEVIN x-1491  NEED: 2 NO/USC GA'S. MEGAN4825. BUY&SELL MICHIGAN GA'S CHARGE BY PHONE , (313) 995-5900 I MR. Coleman FIVE BEAUTIFUL BABES NEED MICH. ST. STUDENT TIX. PLEASE HELP US! CALL 3885. WILL PAY $$. I NEED 2 MICH. ST. GA'S. YOU  GAME WILL PAY$$$$ CALL BILL 271-8483' HELP!! I NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE MICHIGAN STATE GAME (SEPT. 23) CALL MELISSA AT 4036 Desperately in need of Michigan St. GA and Student Tickets! Please call Laura 284-5204 Need 2 USC GA's Please call Vin x2015 · Need four Michigan State GA's and 2 Pitt stud. Tkts. Debbie x2978 Need two GA's for Michigan Game Call Dave at x1984  MY UNCLE NEEDS 4 GA'S TO USC. CHRIS X3526 NEED 4 STU. & 4 GA TIX FOR MIC. ST. X232-9857 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED GAs FOR STATE IT'LL HELP ME GET A MATE. SO CALL 2600 AND LEAVE A MESSAGE. WANTED: USC vs. NO TICKETS 24hr. answering service (213) 487-4161 Horne (213)422-2812  
Representatives to promote our Collegiate Winter Ski Trips & Spring Break Ski & Beach Trips.  TICKETS  Desperate! Will give my first born or any $ for 2 USC GAs Chris B  NEED EXTRA CASH. LET'S TALK. PLEASE CALL KEN AT 3277.  I need USC-SMU-PITI-MICH Tix Call Todd at x4358 or 4618  NEED 4 OR 5 GA's FOR USC!!! CALL MIKE 232-5571  
Earn top commissions and tree  #1484  Desperately need 2 MICH. ST.  
trips! Call 1-800-321-5911 for additional information. Campus organizations welcome!  WE NEED MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS: 2 GA AND 2 STUDENT.  CA LAWYER NEEDS USC GA's!!! PLEASE CALL AMBER x2529!!!!  GA'S (pair). PLEASE CALL Doc 3278.  Need 4 GA's: 2 for Pitt and 3 for USC Call Sue x2485  I need 10 Mich. St. Tix!! I have 2 Pitt Tix to sell Pat x 1857  
V-Tapes all1988-89 N.D. football games. Please call Paul Roy 232­ CALL RICHARD OR ANDREA AT 271-0519.  NEED 4 Michigan State GA's and 1 Michigan State Student. If you  NEED 4 USC GA'S. CALL 271­9830.  Need 2 Pitt or 2 SMU tix Pay$$$ Call Cheryl x2629  NEED TICKETS FOR ALL N.D. GAMES. 272-9772 AFTER-P.M.  
7602  have any of these tickets we have  DESPERATELY SEEKING 5 USC  Need 2 Pitt Ga's Please call Kathy  
ALUMNUS WANTS 2 TO 3 GA'S  good $$$$for you. Please call  GA'S. PLEASE CALL CARl 2855.  x276t  
I WANT YOUR $99 AIRLINE  FOR USC OR PITI!!  Jim at x 3107 (or)  
TICKET VOUCHER FROM AM.  CALL LENNY COLLECT DAYS  Tessa at 271-9895  NEED 2 USC GA'S. WILL PAY TOP  Michigan G.A.'s for Sale!! Call Matt  
EXPRESS! JULIE x2645  AND EVENINGS (217) 785-2217.  $$$. CALL JACK 2366.  x3233  
•  

........~----------.--.--------------------~~---.------------------------~.---~--------~-----------------­
Friday, September 15, 1989

page 14 The Observer 
Young receivers making strides 
opener against Virginia was a 
great game for the Irish, but
Irish 
continued from page 20 
Another reason not to start celebrating, selling t-shirts or writing books yet is the sched­ule. Last year, the Irish played in the ultimately non-threaten­ing atmosphere of Notre Dame Stadium seven times. This year, the noticeable reduction in sea­son ticket prices means one thing...fewer home games. 
The schedule also shows the big two, Michigan and Miami (with apologies to USC), on the road. Does anyone really want to go to the Orange Bowl to play Miami in any situation, let alone Notre Dame in a critical game? 
Penn State is a different team from last year; Stanford will be tough at home. 
Last season, the Irish rode the high of Ho all season, using the Michigan game as a confi­dence builder. This year's the slow second half was as much a cause for concern as the first half was a cause for celebration. 
Tlw Irish also have to over­come the losses of five key play­ers at the beginning of the sea­son. The experts were all be­hind the Irish until the axe fell. Then, they weren't so sure. 
But no one can be sure about the Irish. No one can bll sure of anything in the world of college football. No one thought the Irish would contend last year. The pre-season 13th-place ranking was said to bn an over­estimation of' Notre Dame's abilities. 
Orw more thing to remem­ber-most of the conventional wisdom doesn't apply to Notrn Dame. The Irish have a way with wins, and ABC and the pollsters might. just might, be right this time. 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 
When you discuss Notre Damn's wide receivers with thP Irish assistant coaches, certain words always seem to spring into the conversa­tion. 
Words like "young," "talent." and "steady" are favorites of Notre Dame re­ceivers coaches Tony Ynlovich and Pete Cordelli. 
But thP most important word of all may be "improvement." (or as Yelovich puts it, "progression"). Because no matter how the Irish pass­catchers may look right now. it appears as though the best is yet to come. 
"There's been a steady progression each practice and each game," said Yelovich. "There's been a steady progression with ev­eryone. We're still not close to where we have to be, but we're steadily improving." 

The biggest example of improvement so far has come from flanker Raghib "Hocket" Ismail. The highly­touted sophomore caught 12 passes for 331 yards as a split end last year. 
After just one game this season at flanker, he's close to matching those 1988 fig­ures. In the Kickoff Classic. Ismail had five receptions for 121 yards. 
"(Ismail) has a lot of self­confidence, he's running his routes extremely well and he's very involved in the game," Yelovich said. 
Perhaps there's no bigger contrast in styles of re­ceivers than that between Ismail and split end Pat Eilers. Ismail was highly-re­cruited from Wilkes-Barre, Pa., and much-publicized for his 4.28 speed in the 40. 
Eilers transferred from Yale and worked his way up the depth chart at tailback and split end before earning a starting role. 
"If you look at athletic skills, Pat Eilers can't be a split end on a major college football team, yet you can't keep Eilers off the field," said Irish head coach Lou Holtz. 
The situation couldn't be much better at tight end, where Notre Dame has two players in Derek Brown and Frank Jacobs who could star for most major college teams. 
The youth factor emerges when you look further down the Irish depth chart. After senior Steve Belles, a former quarterback and tailback, the Notre Dame receiving corps is stocked with under­classmen. 
Join The Observer 
The Observer accepts ctass111eds every busmess day from 10 a.m to :J JO p rn .llllt~; Notre Dame off1ce. 314 LaFortune and from 12 30 to 3 p m at the Sa1111 Marys otllce Haggar College Center Deadline for next day class1f1eds IS 3 p.m All classil1eds must be 
prepaid The charge IS 2 cents per character per day. mcludmg spaces
Classifieds 
TICKETS WANTED: 4 SO. CAL. 
(318) 942·9771. (W); (318) 942· 
7164, (H). CALL COLLECT. 
DESPERATEL Y NEED MICH. STATE GA TIX. CALL LAURA 284· 5204. 
DESIRE 2 M.S.U. TICKETS. PRICE IS IMMATERIAL AT THE MOMENT. CALL 283·1g83. 
WANTED: 2 TICKETS TO EITHER NO-PITT OR ND·USC. ANY SECTION. TIM SOSNOWSKI X· 4043 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
DESPERATELY NEEDED· 
MICHIGAN STATE TIX!I!I 
NEED 3 STUDENT TIX AND 4 
GA'S. 
BIG MONEY BIG MONEY!!!! 
CALL JONPAUL AT X1603 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED 2 GA AND 1 STUD. TICKET FOR MICHIGAN STATE. CALL CHRIS X1067. 
GA TICKETS EXCHANGE 
2 MICHIGAN STATE FOR 2 USC. 
CALL 277·0526 EVENINGS. 
Need GA's for ALL home games 
and Miami. Will pay big $. x2335 
I REALLY NEED 2 MICHIGAN 
STATE GA·s. PLEASE CALL 
BETH-X4852 
I REALLY NEED 4 MSU TICKETS. CALL BEN AT 1126. 
NEED 2 TIX TO ND-MICH ST. 
$$CALL #1899 
HELPI Stephen Needs 2 Ml STATE TIX call #3936 or #3525 
Help! I Need Tickets I I need 12 
SMU G.A.'s , and a student ticket 
to any home game for my sister at West Virginia University who wants to see a real football game. Call Gina at X2690. 
I ABSOLUTELY MUST HAVE 2 
SMU GA.SII (GRANDPARENTS 
COMING!) PLEASE CALL STEVE 
x2400. 
Need 2 GA's for MICH ST & up to 4 PITT. Will Pay. Call Beth 3706 
Need 2 GAs for Mich St. Big $ or trade Pitt-Call Lance-1382 "Need 2 GA's for MSU. Parents 
coming. keep me from getting 
grounded. Call Greg x1489" 
I NEED ONE USC STUDENT TICKET-PLEASE CALL BILLAT3340 
Help Two Brothers coming in for Mich St Need two tckts Stud or GA Willing to pay call Keven #2300 
Need 2 GAs to USC. Have 2 Mich. St. GAs to trade. Evenings 239· 7998 
NEED 2 USC GA·s 
Please Call Vin x·2015 
i desparately need michigan st. or USC GA·s ; call bill x3363 
need 2 NAVY ga·s. Will trade for stud tix (any game) or buy. x3202. 
have stud tix (2, sec 30) for all home games x3202 
I NEED AS MANY TICKETS TO 
USC AS YOU CAN GIVE ME I STUDENTS OR GA'S. I WILL PAY GOOD $$$.CALL BOB AT x2313. 
I NEED 3 GAS (PREFERABLY TOGETHER) FOR ANY HOME GAME. CALL KAREN @ 284­
4173. 

I have 2 MICH ST GA's to trade for 2 PITT GA·s. Also need to buy 
more PITT GA's in pairs. Call Andy at x1965 or Will at x1876. 
NEED STUDENT TICKETS FOR PITT & NAVY GAMES--I WILL TRADE FOR ANY OTHER HOME GAMES-·LOU: 233-4308, AFTER 5:00 PM 
Need GAs or STU Tix to ANY HOME GAME esp USC 
Have GAs & STU Tix SMU 
Will trade/bargain/Buy for MORE $ than anyone else 
CALL ROB #1305 
need USC and Miami tix 
Chuck x 3302 NEED 1 GA FOR MICH. ST PLEASE!! Ill! MY LITTLE SIS IS COMING OUT+ PARENTS WILL KILL ME IF SHE DOES'NT GO. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS OR TRADE TIXI CALL MATT #3489 
NEED UP TO 6 USC TICKETS. 
MONEY IS NO PROBLEM. CALL 
JIM AT X1236. 

Help educate my culturally repressed relatives from Wyoming by selling me 2 GA's to Mich ST. Cal x1859 
Need 2 Tix for Mich ST. Have PITT & big$$. Call Jim x1653 
NEED 2 USC GA.S!I!! PARENTS ARE COMING OUT FROM CA -PLEASE HELP ME OUT! KRISTEN X2702 
I NEED 2 USC TICKETS. 
PLEASE!!! 

CALL BETH AT 2722 
WUBNU!I! 

NEED 5 MICH ST. GA OR ST TIX 
PLEASE CALL LINDA X 2999 OR 
X3023 

HELP! Need 2 Mich St. tixl $ x1308 
I fyou have Mich ST. Tix to sell calx1308 
Need 1 Mich St stud and 1 USC tik HAVE 1 SMU stud & $$ Chris x1861 
IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 
MICH ST GA·s CALL CHERIE 
4969. 

DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA'S 
TO ANY HOME GAME. 
$$$$$$ NO PROBLEM! 
CALL DANEKA 272-4804 
HELP THE NEEDYIII I need 1 Pitt ticket I need 4 USC tickets Call 4364 Kevin H. 
need 8 Mich St Ga's. Rick #1795 
HELP! I NEED to save my family 
from Minnesota boredom! If you 
have 4·6 tix for PITT (g.a.) please 
call #3762!!$$$$ 

$$ FRENZIED ALUMS NEED USC TIX. WILL PAY BIG$$. CALL JOHN X2299. 
NEED 2 MSU GA·s AND 4 
STUDENT TIX BADLY. WILL PAY 
BIG$$$. CALL MITCH AT 2061. 
I want to buy your PURDUE tickets call Will 4048 
PITT or USC GAs needed desparately. Please call Mike at #2288. 
NEED SEVERAL PITT TIX 
PLEASE!! #2819 
NEED 3 GA'S (PREFERABLY 
TOGETHER) FOR MICHIGAN 
STATE ·-> CALL MIKE X1151 
Need 6 USC GA tix 
Please call Steve: 1605 
PERSONALS 
HiAg 

ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W, KOKOMO. IN 46901. 
THIS FRIDAY AT 12:15 P.M. 
EVERY FRIDAY AT 12:15 P.M. 
ANTI-APARTHEID NETWORK 
VIGIL 

ADMIN. BUILDING 
Attention ND Students! $4.50 Haircuts VITO'S BARBERSHOP 
M·F 8·5 Sat. 8-4 Closed Wed. 

If you're gay on this campus,chances are you feel alone. We're here for you. Write Gays and Lesbians at ND/SMC,Box194 Notre Dame46556.And join us Sun 17th 6-8,300Health Center for:Coming Out:The Rap Session. 
Dance -type music band seeks BASS and LEAD GUITARISTS. Call x3745 or x3769 after midnight! 
IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 MICH ST GA'S CALL CHERIE X4969 
L.D. 

THE ULTIMATE IN 
CHEESINESS.. 

AN OBSERVER PERSONAL 
(BEAT THATI) 
HAPPY22ND! 
JENIV 

• • • THEY'RE HERE • • • GYROS AT BRIDGET'S THE GREEK SENSATION SERVED FRESH DAILY. 
JUNIORS • JUNIORS • JUNIORS • 
JUNIORS JPW • JPW • JPW • JPW •·JPW • APPLICATIONS ARE NOW AVAILABLE FOR THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE FOR JUNIOR PARENTS· WEEKEND. THEY ARE AVAILABLE IN THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE. 3RD FLOOR LAFORTUNE. THE DEADLINE TO APPLY IS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18TH. ANY QUESTIONS? CALL MARYANN 2855. 
GOT A GREAT IDEA? SEND AN ARTICLE TO COMMON SENSE P.O.BOX957 NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 DEADLINE: SEPT 30. 

DO YOU HAVE A PILOT'S CERTIFICATE OR WISH TO BECOME A STUDENT OR 
PRIVATE PILOT? CALL MIKE 2215. 
VOTE BOSTWICK DISTRICT 1 SENATE 
otevay ostwickbay 
Vote Bostwick! 
Wahlen Sie Bostwick 
BOSTWICK BOSTWICK GOT THE POINT YET? 
VOTE BOSTWICK DISTRICT 1 SENATE 

LYNEAR. WHAT HAPPENED TO YOU THURSDAY AT NOON? MATI 
Two psyches diverged in a yellow 
wood, And I. being the smarter psyche. Took the road to the Admin 
Building; And that has made all the difference. 

••••••MICHIGAN CARAVAN"••••• GOING TO ANN ARBOR? JOIN THE CARAVAN II! MEET AT 8 A.M. AT SENIOR BAR PARKING LOT ON SATURDAY. WE'LL DECORATE OUR CARS, AND INVADE ANN ARBOR TOGETHER. SHOW YOUR IRISH SPIRIT!!! SPONSORED BY SMC SENIORS ••••••MICHIGAN CARAVAN"••••• 
TURKEYFACE! 

Thank·you for all that you have given to me in the past year. Never would I have imagined that I would have found all that I ever dreamed of in a person right across the net. I love you with everything I am...and I always will. Thank you for being my my MOST FAVORITE BUDDY, PAL, and FRIEND! I love you! 
always & forever, Beverly (a non turkeyface!) 
Do you have a pilot's certificate or wish to become a student or pr'ivate pilot?lntersested in starting a flying club? Call Mike x2215 
Someone interesting has been in Walsh study lounge lately 
CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable atmosphere, daily & weekly specials, pool table. English darts. and great company. 234-3541 
To the Primal God of Rythm· 
Good luck this weekend in your search for the Ultimate piece of Justice Pie!! 
·Mundane 
SENIOR FORMAL COMMmEE If interested in planning Senior Formal 1990, 
fill out an information sheet in the Office of Student Activities by noon on Sept 20th. 
wanted: drummer. bassist. and lead guitar player for band interested in playing country rock; if interested contact Bill x3360 
Yo Bryan Conway, It's your 21st "Will there be drinking?" Stiegel? At 9:00a.m.? 
HIBRYAN.HIBRYAN,HIBRYAN, HI BRYAN, HI BRYAN HAPPY BIRTHDAY BRYAN! 
"I DON'T EVEN LIKE ALCOHOL ANYWAY." happy 21st birthday B.C.C. 
PEENMO THE WANKER LIVES 
THE ND-FSU CONNECTION STEPH. HAPPY 9 MONTH ANNIVERSARY LOVE, BRYAN 
A YEAR AGO I WAS JUDY, NOW I'M A 'BUDDHA·. I LOVE YOU. BABY. 
SMALL GROUP BIBLE STUDIES 
MON: call Sean at x·1997 TUE: call Jim at 271·0456 THU: call Jamie at 271-0456 
All meetings go from 7·8:30 PM 
SMALL GROUP BIBLE STUDIES 
MM-Happy Anniversary 
-RH 

• 
Schembechler has won everything except a national title 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
This is the second of a two­part feature on Michigan foot­ball coach Bo Schembechler. 
Bo Schembechler made his in­
tention clear when he arrived 
on the Michigan campus in 
1969-he wanted a trip to the 
Hose Bowl in his first season. 
Bo inherited a Michigan team coming off of an 8-2 season, 6­1 in the Big Ten, but the Wolverines had posted losing seasons in two of the previous three years. 
Michigan met Ohio State and Woody Hayes on the last Saturday of the season for the Big Ten championship. Hayes came into Ann Arbor with one of the best teams in his coach­ing history, but Bo and the Wolverines pulled the upset, 24­12, to earn a trip to the Rose Bowl. 
They lost to Southern Cal 10­3 in the Hose Bowl. but Schembechler had established a rich tradition. 
In the next five years, Schembechler and the Wolverines dominated oppo­nents. In that span, Bo com­
"JENNIFER GRAY" 
"Happy 21st Birthday" 
"Love, Mom, Dad, 
Rachel, Stephanie,, &Ziggy." 
n 
\ 

piled a 50-4-1 record, but still only went to the Rose Bowl once. The reason? Bo's friend and nemesis, Woody Hayes. 
With Bo and Woody at the helms of their respective teams, Michigan and Ohio State played out possibly the greatest rivalry in the country. The teams met­and still do meet-in the last game of the season, with the Big Ten title usually in the bal­ance. 
In 1971, Michigan defeated the Buckeyes 10-7 to earn the trip to Pasadena. Ohio State won 14-11 in 1972 and 12-10 in 197 4. The two teams tied 10-10 in 1973, and a vote by the con­fen·~nce athletic directors sent the Buckeyes to the Hose Bowl. 
After Hayes lost his job for allegedly punching a player in the 1978 Gator Bowl, the ri­valry lost some of its mystique. 
The two teams still play the last game of the season, but without Hayes as Bo's .foil on the other side of the field, the game seems somewhat less im­portant. 
At Michigan, Bo has turned out 38 first-team All­Americans. That list is like a Who's Who of Michigan foot­ball and includes quarterbacks 
Rick Leach and Jim Harbaugh, 
halfbacks Butch Woolfolk and 
Dave Brown, receiver Anthony 
Carter, guard Mark Donahue 
and tackle Dan Dierdorf. 
Schembechler also holds 
down the position of athletic 
director at Michigan. He took 
charge of the basketball pro­
gram last fall and appointed 
assistant Steve Fisher to coach 
the team. Fisher guided the 
Wolverines to the national title, 
and Bo then made him the per­
manent coach. 
The attention and power that Schembechler has at Michigan is incredible, but Bo still insists he is not bigger than the pro­gram. He is just football coach and athletic director among a college with over 30,000 stu­dents, just a face in the crowd. 
"People say 'You won the (Big Ten) championship. You went to the Rose Bowl. Hot damn, the national championship in basketball!' So everyone thinks we're gonna sit around on our ass here and pat ourselves on the back-like they're doing at Notre Dame. And the answer is, 'No!' We're not going to do that." -Bo in September 1989 issue of Sport Detroit Magazine 
If there is any blemish on Bo's resume, it is the absence of what he terms "the mythical national championship." 
8o's Teams in the Polls 

Year AP UPI 
1969 9th 7th 1970 9th 7th 1971 6th 4th 1972 8th 6th 1973 6th 6th 1974 3rd 5th 1975 8th 8th 1976 3rd 3rd 1977 9th 8th 1979 18th 19th 1980 4th 4th 1981 12th 1Oth 1982 15th 1983 9th 10th 1985 2nd 2nd 1986 8th 7th 1987 19th 18th 1988 4th 4th 
SOURCE: Michigan 1989 Football Guide 
Despite the huge success of Bo's Michigan teams, he has never won a national champi­onship. Ten of his 20 teams have won 10 or more games in a season and the top 10 streak is phenomenal, but the national 
championship still hangs  over  
him.  
Bo is just 2-7 in  the  Hose  

Bowl, the prime example of the lack of the Big Ten to win in Pasadena 
September 15 & 16 Rick Clayton (Rock Band) 
Sept 21 Mirage (Funk Rock) 
The Observer I Laura Stanton 

Bo knows the game with the Irish cannot win him the title, but a loss might end Michigan's chances for another year. 
"We will be at a disadvantage against Notre Dame," Schembechler said. "Notre Dame played their first game two days after we practiced in pads for the first time. Your greatest improvement through­out a season is between your first and second games, and they have two weeks after their first game to go ahead and work toward us." 
When Saturday comes, you can bet Bo will have his team ready. No team has ever beaten Bo three consecutive years, and he doesn't want the Irish-the team he wanted to play for in high school-to be the first. The first he would rather see is an unbeaten season and that mythical championship. 
WILL EDELMUTH 
HAPPY 21st 8/RTHDA Y! 
SEPTEMBER 17th, 1989 
We love you, 

MOM, DAD, AMY, and BONZ 

CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY* 
181 
(Z\MPUS MINISTRY 
FIRST MEETING 

V\11 studcuts i11vitcrl to 
(CBS) 

" ... rhere are all sorrs ofservice robe done. but always ro rile same Lord; working in a/; sorrs ofdijferem ways in dijferenr people. 
I Cor. 12:4.5 

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19 
7:00 p.m. 

nttc~r~f 011e Hour Scssio11s 
Ecrullcllical 13i/J[c Sturfy 1Jri11g your ow11 bible 
Every Tucsdny -7:00 p.m. Office of Cn111pus Ministry Confcreucc Room-Badin Hall 
Directed by: Rev. AI D'Alo~tzo, CSC For nrlrlitiounl iu[or111atiou call: 239-5955 239-5242 
~~~~ 
Friday, September 15, 1989
The Observer
a e 16 

Clemson's future bright after beating Florida St. 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Associated Sports Editor 
It happens every autumn. 

An upstart team takes advan­tage of a lightweight schedule to put together an undefeated regular season. Syracuse did it in 1987; West Virginia followed suit last year. 
An early contender this sea­son: Clemson of the Atlantic Coast Conference. 
Following a 34-23 thumping of Florida State last weekend, Clemson's only remaining non­ACC opponents are Virginia Tech on Saturday and arch-ri­val South Carolina on Nov. 18. 
Clemson, the 1981 national champion, consistently domi­nates the ACC (nicknamed the "Always Clemson Conference"). 
North Carolina State has been Clemson's main nemesis, upsetting the Tigers each of the last three seasons. The Wolfpack must play at Clemson's Memorial Stadium nest month. 
Clemson's other main com­

petitor in the ACC -Virginia ­
never in its history has de­
feated the Tigers. 
Pre-season prognostications had Clemson going through a rebuilding season. With star running back Terry Allen, who never lost a fumble during the 1988 regular season, leading the way. the Tigers should be favored in the rest of their games. 
The ACC champions play in 

the Florida Citrus Bowl at 
Orlando. If Clemson avoids a 
letdown this weekend and wins 
WANTED: USC vs. NO TICKETS 24hr. answering service (213) 487-4161 Home (213)422-2812 
'78 Trlumo Sp!ltflrt 49,000 miles 3 tops, Pioneer Stereo Dependable and economical $4500-Price negotiable 
234-1603 

Earn $2D0-300 weekly. Travel tour operator needs four students immediately. 1-800-828-8955 
BBFOBEYOU HAVE TO BURY YOUR HEAD IN BOOKS••• 

Come See Us/ 

HAlHCFr 8-HAMF'On (9' Bli.JW DHY 
S1Q95 


at South Carolina's raucous William-Brice stadium in the season finale, whoever wins the 
Hemember Don James? 

Citrus  Bowl  may  have  just  
cause  for  heading  to  nearby  
Disney World.  

The University of Washington coach was touted as a genius when the Huskies made regular New Year's Day bowl appear­ances earlier this decade. 
After breaking a 10-year string of bowl bids last season, Washington may be ready to return to the elite. The Huskies dumped Texas A&M 19-6 last Saturday. 
"They were awesome against Texas A&M," said Purdue coach Fred Akers, whose team heads to Washington this weekend. "That score could have been 40-6." 
"When you lose at LSU, it's like a mortuary around here," Tigers coach Mike Archer said earlier this week. 
It'll be "The Dead Zone" at Baton Houge this weekend, as Florida State and LSU each light for their first wins of the season. 


C0 IIege
Football 
.;;......;;....;;..;,;;;;;..;;.~--...;;;;;;;....___ 
The rnatchup, expected to be the premier early-season game in the South this year, now is a contest between two desperate teams. 
LSU, ranked seventh in the pre-season, has had a week to brood over is year-opening loss to Texas A&M. Florida State, ranked sixth in the pre-season, has allowed 30 points in each of its first two games. 
"(Florida State) is a team that returns a lot of people from a defense that dominated people last year," said Archer. "The biggest thing they miss is Deion Sanders. There's no question what he meant to that team." 
Air Force quarterback Dee Dowis, who has achieved minor celebrity status for his early­season exploits, could soon be headed for some major hype. 
The Falcons host Texas EI­Paso and travel to Northwestern, Colorado State 
If you've ever dreamed of being behind the controls of an airplane, this is your chance to find out what it's really like. 
AMarine Corps pilot is coming to campus who 
and Navy for their next four games. With that schedule, Air Force could be undefeated when top-ranked Notre Dame 
arrives on campus Oct. 14. 
The Air Force press guide calls Dowis the best option quarterback in the country. Against Tony Hice, he'd have a 
chance to prove it. 
Aside from Notre Dame, the hottest team in the nation just might be Tennessee. 
The Volunteers, who lost their first six games in 1988, carne back to win their final live contests. They're now 2-0 after bouncing UCLA 24-6. 
Tennessee's offense had no turnovers and no penalties against UCLA, as the Volunteers had three touch­down drives of over 80 yards. 
But it's the defense that has changed the Volunteers' for­tunes. Tennessee coach Johnny Majors makes no secret of his displeasure with that unit's performance in the first half of the '88 season. 
"That was the worst unit I've had in my coaching career, on either side of the ball," Majors says of that defense. 

If you're cut out for it, we'll give you free civilian flight training, maybe even $100 a month cash while you're in school. And someday you could be flying a Harrier, Cobra or F/A-18. 
can take you up for trial flights. 
We're looking for a few college students who have the brains and skill-as well as the desire-to become Marine pilots. 
Getataste 
oflife 
attbetop. 
If Tennessee's defense isn't sharp against Duke on Saturday, the Volunteers might be in for a long day. 
Duke's passing combination of quarterback Billy Hay and all-America receiver Clarkston Hines combine with running back Roger Boone to form one of the most explosive offenses 
in the nation. "Duke will be by far biggest test we've had in secondary," said Majors.  the our  
•••1  

Florida coach Galen Hall got to spend the summer watching state newspapers hold polls concerning who should replace him (the fans' favorites were Duke's Steve Spurrier and Louisville's Howard Schnellenberger). 
Hall's tenuous hold on the coaching job got even looser last weekend when the Gators were upset by Southeastern Conference also-ran Ole Miss. 
Couple that with the Southern Miss stunner over Florida State, and the state of Mississippi has a 2-0 advan­tage in games against Florida schools. 

Get a taste of what life is like at the top. The flight's on us. 



The Observer page 17 
j 
White's volleyball abilities have Michiana alive with pride I 
l 

Mit&ee4 E.CE8~<.NI tJ>:f1.8U8E tJ><JlE8S<.NI8 M)ftt4 
KECK'S KLEAR WATER COMPANY <.;t lJ:jlfflt( ~ Bottled Spring Water Cooler Rental Free Delivery For Same Day Service Call 674-9992 before 1 0:00 AM Monday through Friday  
ND TICKETS NEEDED ALL Games Call TODAY tor immediate CASH 1-800-828-8955  
N.D./MIAMI GAME NOV. 24-26, 1989 $599 Dou==ncy ~gerton's 2~30 McK'ini~;.·a~71·800-552-618 (IND.) 1-800-643-4604 (U.S.A.)  


100%

SWEATERS I 
CUD(_R8D~ 
*WHOLESALE PRICES * CWOO£, 
YOU'RE ltf FOR MORE TH.Atf YOU EXPECTED If' YOU JUST EXPECTED SWEATERS! 
WOOL SCARVES, FISHERMAN KNITS, HEAVY AND LIGHT WEIGHT SKI SWEATERS; OVER 15 STYLES. WE ARE A MOTHER-DAUGHTER COMPANY COMMITIED TO PROVIDING A HIGH QUALITY PRODUCT FOR A COLLEGE STUDENTS BUDGET. ALL OF OUR SWEATERS ARE FULLY GUARANTEED. PERIOD. WE EVEN PUT OUR PHONE NUMBER ON THE LABEL. 
IMit1JS1fiE:IR~ ~IRII),  VD51~  ~IN! II) IPlH:IR!5lOINI~II..  &(}-DIEt&~ 5J  ~&ern: IPlrtH:[b  
W'HEP.t:  Sarin Room  
First Floor LaFortune  Last Day Today!  

By MOLLY MAHONEY Assistant Sports Editor 
Who says nothing good comes out of the Michiana area? 
Notre Dame students have made a science out of slamming South Bend's ·lack of excite­ment, but you won't hear any complaints from Irish volleyball coach Art Lambert 
In fact, he is actually grateful for one of the products of the burgeoning metropolis of South Bend-junior setter Amy White. 
The South Bend native strolled onto the Notre Dame volleyball team as a walk-on her freshman year, taking the court as a righthanded left side hitter. 
Today , things are different 
The only thing that has re­mained the same is her work ethic and her adaptability. 
When White takes the court this weekend at the Joyce ACC for the Notre Dame 
Pacific 
continued from page 20 
volleyball's toughest confer­ences-the Big West-and made it to the Northwest 
Hegion Championship  of the  
NCAA  tournament  before  
falling to Hawaii.  

"We definitely have our work cut out for us," Lambert said. ''I've seen a lot of improvement 
Ever want to try scuba diving? 
upcoming scuba classes: Open Water 
Invitational, it will be as a left­handed scholarship setter. 
"I've always tried to keep an open mind about my role on the team," White said. "I walked into practice one day and coach said 'Amy you're going to learn to hit lefthanded.' And I have to admit, after hitting righthanded for eight years, I was a little skeptical. 
"But I worked at it, and now its second nature. The same goes for setting-we needed someone to fill in that spot when Julie (Bremner) left, so I'm going to do what it takes to get the job done right" 
White has used her versatility to become a steady performer for the Irish, whether passing, serving or setting. 
She already has amassed 63 assists and 18 digs in her first four collegiate matches as a setter, and Lambert believes that is a small sampling of things to come. 
"Amos is a natural," Lambert 
in the team in just one week, and it's time to go out and get a match, not just a few games." 
Notre Dame will need its set­ters and middle blockers at their best while getting contin­ued good play from a rapidly maturing corps of freshmen. 
Freshman Jessica Fiebelkorn tallied a four-match total of 41 kills and 11 total blocks en route to garnering Gonzaga All-Tournament honors last 
weekend. 

Amy White 
said. "She's a diligent, hard be able to do what Julie did for us. "I have some mighty big shoes to fill, and I don't expect to be able to reach that level of play immediately. But I try to keep things in perspective and keep working until I'm the best setter I can be." worker with great physical skills-great hands, savvy, 
And fellow freshman Alicia Turner exhibited some of the skills that made her a first­team All-America selection by Volleyball Monthly and Reebok at the high school level, as she recorded 52 kills and eight ser­vice aces in her first four col­legiate matches. 
Two tandems-senior setter Taryn Collins and sophomore setter Amy White, and sopho­more middle hitters Christine Choquette and Jennifer Slosar-will be the key to a strong Irish performance this weekend. 
Sophomore outside hitter Tracey Shelton, who tallied 22 kills while adding 36 digs de­
fensively,  should  make  her  
presence  felt  in  the  lineup.  
Senior  captain  Kathy  

Cunningham, who leads the team with 49 digs, will need to exert herself defensively to compensate for an inexperi­enced front line. 
smarts-and I'm delighted with the progress she's made as a setter. 
"Setting's a hard thing to throw at a person. You've got to think about blocking and playing defense, but first and foremost, you have to set the ball. That mean's knowing what your hitters like, where they'll be and who they'll be hit­ting against, just for starters." 
White had worried that after making the transition to left­handed hitter she would be un­able to make the adjustment to being a setter, but her fears have been assuaged. 
"I started to think that all the playing I'd done hadn't led up 
to  anything."  White  said.  "I  
woke  up  one  day  at  ground  
zero.  

"But I love setting; I love to be able to control the game's tempo and know that, win or lose, I have a large part of the responsibility for it I used to alwavs follow the setter, and 
Friday, Sept. 15 
Notre Dame Volleyball Invitational-at Joyce ACC 6:00p.m.-Pittsburgh vs. Pacific 
8:00 p.m. -NOTRE DAME vs. Western Michigan 
Saturday, Sept. 16 
Notre Dame Volleyball Invitational -at Joyce ACC 
11 :00 a.m. -Pittsburgh vs. NOTRE DAME 
1:00 p.m. -Pacific vs. Western Michigan 
6:00 p.m. -Western Michigan vs. Pittsburgh 8:00p.m.-NOTRE DAME vs. Pacific 
Join The Observer 
now the hitters follow me; I like 
knowing that I control a lot of 
what happens out there." 
White stepped into a setting role when freshman standout Julie Bremner, who set a single­season record with 1,340 as­sists in her first year of college, was selected to play on the United States national team. 
She now competes for playing time with senior Taryn Collins, who has returned to the team after a taking a year off for disciplinary reasons. 
"It's good to have somebody there to make me work hard to keep my spot day-in and day­out," White said. "We make each other better, and Taryn pushes me to improve-some­thing I have to do if I want to be able to do what Julie did for us. 
"I have some mighty big shoes to fill, and I don't expect to be able to reach that level of play immediately." 
~--~~----~-----~-------­
Friday, September 15, 1989

page 18 The Observer 
Women's golf heads to Illinois St.
SPORTS BRIEFS 
SMC flag football needs officials for games to be played on Sunday afternoons. Officials receive $5 per game. Call 284-5548 for more information. 
Non Varsity athletics is looking for officials for soccer and women's football. Call 239-6100 for more information or fill out an application at the NVA office. 
Ice skaters interested in figure skating weekday mornings at the Joyce ACC should contact Katy Boyd at x4514. The sessions will begin Monday, Sept. 18. 
Cycling Club will hold a meeting at 4 p.m. Tuesday, Sept. 19, at the main circle. Call x3492 for more information. 
In American League games Thurday, the Minnesota Twins shut out the Toronto Blue Jays 2-0, the Cleveland Indians blanked the Detroit Tigers 4-0 and the Texas Rangers pounded the Kansas City Royals 10-4. 
In National League action Thursday, the Pittsburgh Pirates edged the Saint Louis Cardinals 4-3, the Houston Astros whipped the Los Angeles Dodgers 11-3 and the San Francisco Giants trimmed the Cincinnati Reds 4-3 in 12 innings. 

At-' Photo 

Fay Vincent will replace the late A. Bartlett Giamatti as baseball commissioner. The World Series will be played in Giamatti's memory baseball officials announced Thursday. ' 
~ <j)or-i¢i'¢ ~~ ~otor-ante.
~~ A; 
Now Hiring 
* Experienced Waitresses 
* Pizza Makers * Line Cooks *Part Time Banquet Waitresses 
Apply 2-5 pm 1412 South Bend Ave 232-4244 
fwkdJtal~ lllnrr~J~~ fw~dtal~ lllnrrll~~ fw~dtal~ lllnrrll~~ 
at... 


Noon -2:00p.m. Don't miss out! 
!Fri. Nita 9 -2 DJ !Sniarn McCauith~ Sat Nita 9-2 DJ lOJis Munoz 
By JOHANNA KELLY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's golf team is looking to make an impact this weekend as it trav­els to the Illinois State Women's Golf Invitational. 
Last year, the Irish finished ninth in the competition. 
''I'm looking for improvement into the top 10," said Irish coach Tom Hanlon. 
The Irish opened their season by hosting the Irish Invitational at the University's Burke Memorial Golf Course this past weekend. After just one week of practice, the Irish placed sev­enth out of a field of 18 teams. 
Piane 
continued from page 20 

"Who fills in the back is up 
for grabs." 

While the Irish want to try and forget the success of last year, Georgetown definitely will remember their visit to Notre Dame and embarrassing defeat last year. 
The Hoyas will have the edge this time because most of their top runners are baek, including John Trautman, winner of the 1988 Meyo Mile. Mike Donahue and 1987 Virginia state champion Danny Ireland also will be looking for revenge on the Irish. 
Piane noted that live of the top six runners in last year's meet against Georgetown were from Notre Dame, but he ad­mits that this is unlikely to happen again. 
"We've beaten Georgetown 
The Irish improved consider­ably from last year's perfor­mance, shaving 25 points off last year's total and turning in a score of 675. 
"I was hopeful of finishing where we did," said Hanlon. "I think that we could've done bet­ter, but overall. it wasn't too bad of a performance." 
Hanlon cited freshman Kathy Phares, who finished with a score of 165, for her outstand­ing performance. 
"She's shown that she's a good golfer, as we thought she would be when we recruited her," Hanlon said of the East Moline, Ill., resident. "We hope that she provides this kind of spark in the rest of the season." 
two years in a row, so I can guarantee that they will be pre­pared," Piane said. "We can't take them lightly." 
O'Connor agrees that the Irish will have a much tougher fight this year than in the two previous seasons. 
"Their coach thinks he has one of the best teams ever at Georgetown, possibly national qualifiers," said O'Connor. "We're a pretty young team, 
Hanlon also credited Bert Bryer (a score of 168), Allison Wojnas (171) and Heidi Hanson 
(174) and Pendora Feeks (174). 
Overall, Iowa State took top honors at the Irish Invitational with a team total of 636, while Michigan earned second place with a combined score of 638. 
Dawn Marting of Iowa State led the individual competition, turning in a final score of 151. 
As for the Illinois Invitational this coming weekend, the Irish hope to continue their im­provement. 
"We'll be more competitive this year," says Hanlon. "We're not where we want to be, but we're trying to get there." 
and this will be an early test for us." 
Piane says that the Irish have trained well enough to defeat the Iloyas for the third con­secutive year, but he still is worried that his runners might be a bit too confident. 
"I think what they have to do is think positively," he said. "I want them believing that they can win without being overcon­fident." 


Join The Observer 
THE OLD COLLEGE "Cradle of lhe University" 

Buill in 1843 A monthly lime of shared hospitality. discussion and prayer welcomin8 collc8c students and others who arc cxplorin8 an interest in pursuin8 a process of discernin8 a vocation to ministry and rcli8ious life in tloly Cross. 
Tuesday. &pl. 19  7:00 pm  Opporlunilies for minislry  Fr. Richard Warner. C6C  
in Lhe Church Loday  Direclor. Campus 1-:ini.slry  
Tue.sday. OcL. 10  7:00 pm  Discernin8 a Vocalion:  Fr. Nichola.s llyo. C6C  
How lo Make  a Decision  llssl Prof. P.L.6.  
Tue.sday. Nov.  14  7:00 pm  Reli8ious Life  Why Take Vows9  6r. Jean Lenz. OM  
Assl VP 6Ludent  AlTair~  
Tuesday. Dec. 12  7:00 pm  Prieslhood:  Whal is a Prieel'?  Fr. Michael Hrme.•  
Amx  Prof. 'l'hl"olo!_(y  
Tuesday. Jan. 23  7:00 pm  l1rolherhood in tloly Cross.  t)ro. John PlallC". C&.:~  
Whal i.­ a brother'?  Bro. ,Jo..;eph Codl'r-C"y. C">t.  
I'm~  6LephC"n NHnL  C6~·  
l'ueroay. t'eb  20  7:00 pm  t:nlerin<') 11oly Crt.-w;.  rr. JHme~  Kino,. l\.;,(:  
A ND '81  Alum's Perspeclrve  llssr  Reclc'r -Dilk'll tlHII  
Tuesday. 'larch '20  7:00 pm  Holy Cross (i:f Nolre Dame  Dr. Thomuli 6:hlel'<~lh  
150 Years or t1islory  Prof. Amencan ,.;,ludie.­ 
Tuesday. flprrl 17  7.00 pm  The  Mi&;rl>IIOI')' Church  t'r. Charles Cordon. CSC  
Holy Cross rn  t:asl Arrica  Assi. Reeler. tloly CrOOI' Hall  

Notre Dame students are invited lo each and all of these cvenif18S. Each prescnlalion bc8ins at 7:00 pm and concludes at 8:00 pm. <Shared prayer or celebration of the Eucharist will follow at 8:15 pm and all are welcome as well. 
Old Colle8e is located on the Nolrc Dame campus facif18 Ol. Mary Lake immediately behind the Lo8 Chapel and Architecture 5uildif18. 
For more information: 
Fr. John Conley, C<SC 
Holy+ Fr. Paul Doyle, C<SC 
Box 541 
Old Collc8c
Cross:K

Notre Dame. IN 
Notre Dame, IN
Priests&
(219) 239-6385 
(219) 239-6302 



The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
f:+~-r.-i f,'-+~+=-1 


COMICS 

Friday -Tom Cruise All Night Movie 
Cushing Auditorium $2.00 per Movie or $5.00 for the Whole Night
8:00 Top Gun 

10: 1 0 The Color of Money 
12:20 All the Right Moves 
2:30 Cocktail 

Saturday Beaches 
Cushing Auditorium $2.00 
8:00 and 10:15 
Friday 
12:15 p.m. "The Church and Homosexuality," Room 124, Center for Social Concerns, Father Richard McCormick, .John A. O'Brien professor of Christian Ethics, Theology. Brown bag or soup and bread lunch, $1. 
All day volleyball, ND Invitational, JACC. 
7:30, 9:30 p.m. Film, "The Thin Blue Line," Annennberg Auditorium. Admission $2.00. 
8:00 p.m. "Dance Kaleidescope," O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College. 
Saturday All day volleyball. ND Invitational, JACC. All day tennis, Saint Mary's Invitational. 
1:30 p.m. Saint Mary's soccer versus Wheaton College. 
2:30 p.m. Notre Dame football versus Michigan. 
Sunday All day tennis, Saint Mary's Invitational. 
2:00 p.m. "Three Universities Collect: 20th Century Works on Paper," reception and exhibit opening, Snite Museum of Art. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Short Ribs with Vegetables Make Your Own Burrito 
Vegetable Calzone 
Canadian Bacon/Mushroom Sandwich 
56 Suffix for poll 58 "The King--" 61 Cohan song 64 John Lithgow is 
one 

65 Mystery writer 
Wahloo 66---law (Jacob, to Laban) 67 Event at ancient 
Troy 68 Coop sounds 69 ''The Lady --," 
1935 song 
DOWN 1 Word in many a Gardner title 2 Former labor leader 3 Obnoxious car passenger 4 Aft 5--Paul, popular guitarist 6 Emily or Wiley 7 President of Costa Rica a Served soup 9 "Lumiere 
d~."1943 
film 10 Kind of drop 13 Command of a 
sort 14 An anagram for diet 

59 Onetime Genoa 25 Diaskeuast 43 Gormandize offic1al26 Life, in Lyon 

45 Meal check 60 Angered27 Matador's cloak 
48 Leblanc's sleuth 62 Recipe amt. 28 Jeanne Eagels 
---Lupin 
63 Rotary-pressvehicle: 1922 

inventor 29 Greek letter 
50 Component of 
vitamin B 64 This way, in 33 Jungfrau is one complex Toledo 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
OK, tl()t:'s GO\ \.\15 B/\C\( 1Q M't:' f\¥:>W I'LL 7.\P O~£R, 
STE~L M'l\RVCK. 6t>.CK. 
1>.\'oll) RU\'ol LIK£ C.RAI'( .' 

g. 

BUZZ MC FLATIOP 
\-It'LL \'olt.'-Jt.R ~NO'fol 'tll-lt>.\ I-III 1-\IM! B'i 11-\t. 11\'1\£ 14£ S'tt:S 1\l't. TI<\ICK. IS GOI-I£, l 'LL B£ 
A. MILt: t>.Wt>.:i! II'S f.. FML·I'ROOt' Plt>.N' \'oiCil'r\ING CP.,\'ol Gel 'folRO\'oiG! rrs 1\ SNAP! 
I 
11-\'t:Rt.S ~o R'0>·.':'PN 10 
1-\ES\Tt>.lt.. 11'LL Bt. <:NER. l\'ol A 51'\..\I 'S't:C.O\'ol\), At-10 1\l. S\lR£ Bt. GV..O n:> \-1,.,._'1£ t<\'( TR\JC.K. \3.11-C.\( .' I'lL J\lSI 00 IT ~1\\) 
B~ OOl-1£! NOn\lNG TO II! 
11''5 E"-'S'( ! 

BILL WATIERSON 
OB'IlOJSL~ M~ BoO'l ~1 Bt:l\E'JI: t>. 'tlORO !IIi BRAit'\ THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
lS SA'IING. 

MICHAEL F. MULDOON 

ACROSS 
1 Secret plot 
6 Became ghostly 11 Put down 12 Emulate W. J 
Bryan 13 F1xed charge 16 Conventicle 
participants 17 Laterally 19 Sommer from 
Berlin 20 Shortened Latm catchall 21 Lane of The 
Dally Planet 22 Sellout signs 24 Maid. to P1erre 27 Scalloped 30 Jefferson was 
one 31 Motoring gp. 32 Actress 

Hayworth 34 Ill. -City or county 37 The Great 
Commoner 39 Where Valletta IS 
41 Blue dye 42--Doria, ill-fated vessel 44 Early inhabitant of Britain 46 Hereditary 

factor. for short 47 Rodeo gear 49 Positions at the 
plate 51 Followers of 
corn or clam 54 Oscar relative 55 Bathe 


.­
Sports 
Friday, September 15, 1989
page 20 

Volleyball team looking to rebound at NO Invitational 
By MOLLY MAHONEY But Irish head coach Art 
Notre Dame finally reaped Illinois-and will bring thn tal­Assistant Sports Editor Lambert is confident that his vengeance on its longtime ad­entnd trio of snnior outside hit­young squad will ignite its own versary last season, tallying ter .Julin Shnils, junior settnr 
Arter sputtering to a 1-3 fire and turn it on the talented two victories over the Broncos. Janellf1 Lantangn and sopho­start and fourth-place finish in field of teams it will face this But Western Michigan, always more Sue Zonnnvilln to the last weekend's Gonzaga weekend. a regional power, enters JACC. Invitational. the Notre Dame "I like what I've seen in prac­tonight's game 2-1 and ready And, in case the young Irish vollnyball team is hoping it tice this week," Lambert said. to even the score. squad hasn't had nnough. won't go from the frying pan "I like the attitude, the effort, Senior Joanne Bingham and Notre Dame will face eighth­into the fire .. the enthusiasm, and I hope that sophomores Jan Cottrnll and ranked Paeific in the final game 
can translate into a few wins Julie Young will defend the of the tournament Saturday
~:~;

• Amy White profile I page17 on the floor. Western Michigan brown and night. "The talent. the skill is there gold against the Irish on­Notre Dame upsnt perennial 
Inconsistency and inexperi­in these athletes. We just have Art lambert slaught. powerhouse Pacific last year in ence burned the Irish in their to work on our consistency and season against the Broncos. Notre Dame will face a 6-1 the two teams' first menting, first four matches. Pacific, sustain a high level of play to The Notre Dame contest will Pittsburgh team still licking its toppling a 14th-ranked Tignr We<>tern Michigan and start winning some matches." follow the Pittsburgh-Pacific chomps after devouring five of squad in five games, 8-15, 15­Pittsburgh have all journeyed to Notre Dame will try to get match. its seven opponents in quick. 17, 16-14,5-15, 15-12. South Bend to help apply the off on the right foot tonight at Western Michigan has been a three-game matches. on The Tigers racked up an im­heat this weekend. as the Irish the Joyce ACC against an old ri­nemesis to the Irish since 1985, Saturday morning. pressive 22-13 overall record open their home season tonight val-Western Michigan-and when it started a string of The Panthers have pounced last year, despite playing in one by hosting the Notre Dame try to add to the two-match four-straight wins over the on all their opponents but 
see PACIFIC I page 17

Invitational. winning streak it started last Irish. one-falling to fourth-ranked 
Irish face many tests in quest to defend title 
ABC Television is promoting Saturday's Notre Dame­Michigan game as having major bearing on the national championship hunt. Well, anytime the top two teams in the country meet, anytime during the season, the game has some significant ramifications. 
Theresa Kelly 
Sports Editor 

Nonetheless, the rest of the experts say that this game doesn't really matter. The bigger picture suggests that whichever team loses isn't out of the hunt. If you have to lose, lose early. For Notre Dame, if you have to lose, don't lose to Miami. It is a scary thing to be ranked No. 1 this early in the season. 
But Miami and Michigan aren't all that stand in the way of the Irish in the title hunt. Like any defnnding champion, they are the one team that everyone is out to get. The Irish can't help it. most of the teams on the schedule would trade their entire offense to beat Notre Dam1~ this year. For many of the teams on the schedule, Notre Dame is the biggest game, de­fending champs or not.
Sophomore Rusty Setzer (24) turns upfield for some of Notre Dame's 300 rushing yards in the 36-13 Kickoff 
Classic win over Virginia. Saturday's contest between the top-ranked Irish and number-two Michigan could 
see IRISH I page 14 come down to the rushrng game, as both squads boast solid offensive lines and backs. 
NO cross country teams to face Georgetown at D.C. 
... 
Men look to continue Women are optimistic mastery over Hoyas against stronger foe 
By MARY GARINO By BARBARA MORAN 

Sports Writer Sports Writer 

Notrn Dame nwn's cross country coach Joe 
The Notre Dar111~ women's cross countrv t11am 
l'iarw would like his tmun to have a case of am­will attmnpt to avenge last y11ar's lr>ss to 
nPsia bPfore Saturday's season-opening meet 
Georgetown when it traVIds to Washington.
against Gnorgntown in Washington, D.C. 
D.C., Saturday for its season-opening ment. 
"Bncause we'vn won tho last two years, I hope 
Notre Dame coach Tim Connolly pn~dicts a thn guys won't get overconlident," Piane said. 
challnnging meet for the Irish. "If you talk to Lou lloltz, he would tell you that 
"Georgetown is one of the top programs in the last year is history. It's the same with us." 
country," said Connelly. "They have 14 girls on 
Looking back at Notre Dame's performance full-scholarship, as opposed to our z11ro. and 
last yPar. it seems as though the Irish would 
they've got orw of last year's top thnll~ highhave a right to be confident. Notre Dame fin­school runners in the country. Wn're on two to­
islwd in the top 10 at the NCAAs for the second tally different levels." 
year in a row. 

Despite Georgetown's power, Connelly was op­Among the team's victories was a 16-44 timistic about the meet, praising the efforts of thrashing of Georgetown at the Burke Memorial his team. 
Golf Course. But tl1n 1989 t11am has a different look. All­
"We're looking to improve from last year, and 
Anwricans Dan Garrett and Hon Markezich 
we'll try to improve with every meet we run,"
haw1 graduated, leaving a young squad behind. 
said Connelly. "We have a pack of kids who'll do Piann has a good idea who his top runners will a heck of a job-we'll give a real good effort." 
be. but the rest of the team is uncertain. 
Connelly said that he expects strong perfor­Senior captain Mike O'Connor should fill 
mances from all his runners, particularlyGarrett's sneakers as the leader of the pack. 
sophomore Lucy Musrala and junior Terese 
followed by Tom O'Hourke and Hyan Cahill. Pat Lemanski. 
Kearns, a junior who was injured much of last "Lucy is definitely our top runner," Connelly season, also is expected to contribute. 
said. "She can run with anyone in the country.
"Those are probably the top four," Piane said Terese has been running very well also. She trained her butt off over the summer and is in 
see PlANE I page 18 really good shape." 









