

VOL. XXIII NO. 10 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Health Dept. declares measles emergency 
Free immunizations offered at Notre Dame today and Monday 
By MATT GALLAGHER 
Senior Staff Reporter 
The Indiana State Health De­partment Thursday declared a measles emergency at Notre Dame and ordered a mass im­munization following a con­firmed case in the student body. 
• Measles cases up in U.S. page 5 
All students and employees born after 1957 and who have not receivtJd a measles immu­nization since Jan. 1, 1980, are at risk and must be immunized immediately, said Director of University Health Services Carol Seager. 
The immunizations will be of­fered at no cost to Notre Dame students and staff who meet the Health Services' guidelines. 
Anyone who contracts measles but did not comply with the Health Department order could be quarantined for two weeks by the county health department. 
Students at Saint Mary's Col­lege are not yet required to re­ceive immunizations, as there have been no confirmed cases on the Saint Mary's campus, said Colleen Hart, assistant di­rector of health services at the College. 
However, Director of Health Services Gloria Chelminiak said Saint Mary's students should receive vaccinations if possible. The mass immunization which is taking place at Notre Dame is not available to Saint Mary's students. Saint Mary's has ordered a quantity of the vac­cine, which it will make avail­able to its students once it is received. 
The employees of Notre Dame affected will be those who meet the above criterion and are in positions of direct student con­tact, said Seager. 
The mass immunization cam­paign will begin today and con­tinue on Monday, September 11, from noon to 9 p.m., at the Infirmary, in the concourse of the Hesburgh Library and in the Dooley Room in the LaFor­tune Student Center. 
"This [immunization cam­paign] is a direct result of the confirmed case on campus," Seger said. She estimated that about 85 percent of the student body must be immunized. 
The student who contracted the disease is from Kansas, Seager said, and not from Chicago. The Chicago area has recently experienced a measles outbreak, which seems to be spreading into Northern Indi­ana, according to The Associ­ated Press. 
Nearly 10 percent of the freshman class of 1988-89 
came from Illinois, the highest number from any state. 
Chicago authorities began a door-to-door immunization project after deaths from the disease in the past several weeks. 
The Center for Disease Con­trol announced Wednesday that more than 10,000 measles cases were reported in the first eight months of 1989, which is three times the number re­ported all last year, according to The Associated Press. 
Seager said that Health Ser­vices was "fortunate that we were able to get 5,000 units of the vaccine so rapidly." 
The vaccine the University has received immunizes stu­dents against measles and rubella. Seager said she would have prefered to obtain a vac­cine against mumps, measles and rubella (MMR), but the more potent MMR vaccine was 
-not available, due to the na­
tionwide outbreak of measles. 
Seger stressed the importance of all students on campus receiving a vaccination today or Monday. 
Saint Mary's sent a letter to all students after classes ended last spring urging them to check on their vaccination sta­tus before creturning to school, according to Chelminiak. 
The letter reflected the rec­ommendations of the American College Health Service, advising anyone vaccinated prior to 1980 to be revaccinated. 
Last November, everyone who traveled to the University of Southern California football game in Los Angeles was im­munized by the county health department before the trip after an outbreak of the disease there. 
Sara Marley contributed to this report. 

Nouwen lecture kicks off the Year of the Family 
By DAN DWYER Presently, there are 3,000 News Staff people living in L'Arche com­munities around the world in 
former Notre Dame profes­small homes with a family envi­sor Father Henri Nouwen of ronment. The handicapped the L'Arche Daybreak Commu­work together with assistants nity for the mentally handi­in doing the housework and capped brought his message of other chores. optimism to a crowded Wash­"It is important to know that ington Hall last night, reflecting God loves you, and that you are on God's love in the unique safe in that love,"said Nouwen community. of his personal journey. "At 
The one-time psychology pro­L'Arche, love isn't dependent fessor related his experiences upon your success or your ca­at L'Arche in a highly emotional reer. What makes you human is presentation that included your heart, not your mind." speeches from the, directors of Two members of th!e Day­the Daybreak community in break staff, Joe Vostermans downtown Toronto, in addition and John Guido, also spoke to group prayer an~ song. about daily life at the commu­
"These are c?mmunities nity. where mentally hnndicapped "Daybreak is about caring people and assistants try to live relationships", said Guido, a in the spirit of the Beati­former California banker. His 
tudes,"said Nouwen,"where presentation included a conver-Father Henri Nouwen, former Notre Dame professor and an advocate of independent living for the mentally 
communities are formed in the see NOUWEN 1page 5 handicapped, spoke of inspiration and compassion to a capacity crowd at Washington Hall Thursday.

spirit of the Gospel." 

Nouwen works with the L'Arche Daybreak Community for the mentally handicapped in Toronto. 
Navy concludes gunner's mate caused Iowa explosion 

Associated Press 
The Navy's conclusion that a gunner's mate probably caused a deadly explosion on the bat­tleship USS Iowa was met Thursday with harsh criticism from his family and skepticism from other sailors. 
The Navy "has concocted this fable ... in an attempt to shift the blame away from its dismal track record in their operation of this battleship and lay the blame on a dead sailor who isn't here to defend himself," said Kreig Brusnahan, an at­torney for the family of Clayton Hartwig. 
In a report released at the Pentagon, the Navy said Hartwig probably placed a det­onator between gunpowder bags in one of the battleship's 16-inch guns. The April 19 blast killed 47 sailors including Hartwig, who was the gun cap­tain, or supervisor of loading the weapon and with its World War 11-vintage ammunition. 
"The idea that one man blew up 47 others, I don't find it fea­sible. I think it was somehow an accident," said a petty offi­cer second class at the USS Iowa's home port, Norfolk, Va. He declined to give his name. "If the man wanted to commit suicide, there are a lot of other ways to do it, without taking 4 7 of your crewmates with you." 
Retired Rear Adm. Eugene Carroll, deputy director of the Center for Defense Information in Washington, called the find­ing "a very, very far-reaching grasping at straws." He said the report criticized the equip­ment maintenance and crew training but did not blame those factors for the explosion. 
"This probable cause diverts attention from the question of the performance of the equip­ment and the personnel," he said. 
Others defended the Navy's investigation. 

"I don't think it's a cop-out," said electrician's mate 3rd Class Michael Glass, who is sta­tioned aboard the amphibious cargo ship Charleston in Nor­folk. 
"I would say the Navy Inves­tigative Service has probably done their homework. They probably know for a fact, or have enough evidence, circum­stantial or not, to back up this theory," said Steven Haight, of Norfolk, who retired from the Navy after 20 years, most in in­telligence. 
The report on the explosion was delivered to the ship Wednesday during a port call in Gaeta, Italy, said Capt. Paul Hanley, an Atlantic Fleet spokesman. The Iowa left Nor­folk in June for six months in the Mediterranean Sea. 
A criminal investigation of the explosion was launched after Hartwig's sister, Kathy Kubicina, disclosed the exis­tence of a $100,000 accidental death and dismemberment pol­icy on her brother's life, naming gunner's mate 3rd class Kendall Truitt as a beneficiary. 
At a news conference in Mi­ami, Truitt's attorney, Ellis Ru­bin, dismissed the Navy's ver­sion of the explosion, which he said is "nothing more than speculation. 
"Our information was that it was the Navy's negligence, un­trained and unqualified crew members and 50-year old tech­nology, dangerous from day one," said Rubin. 
Truitt had expected to attend the news conference, but was ordered to remain at the May­port Naval Station in Jack­sonville, Fla., until too late to catch a flight for Miami, Rubin said. 

Harwig's family in Cleveland was briefed on the Iowa report by a three-member Navy con­tingent on Thursday. 
Hartwig's father, Earl Hartwig, a Navy veteran, said he was unconvinced that his son or any other crew member had caused the explosion. 
"I think there was a powder explosion -accidental," Earl Hartwig said. 
"I've never believed it right 

from the start," Kubicina said when asked if she thought her brother had caused the blast. 
Kubicina and her father said they wanted a congressional in­vestigation into the Navy's handling of the Iowa probe. 

Friday, September 8, 1989 
page 2 The Observer 


WORLD BRIEFS 
The National Party government in South Afrca promised reform Thursday, after capturing less than 50 percent of the vote for the first time since 1953. The election was accompanied by protests and political violence in which 25 people were reported killed. If the death toll is confirmed, it would be the highest in a 24-hour period since 69 blacks were shot to death during a peace­ful protest in Sharpeville township in 1960. 
Mother Teresa, who won the Nobel Peace Prize for her work with the poor and destitute, has been admitted to the intensiv_e care unit of a Calcutta hospital with a heart ailment, doctors said Thursday. She was admitted to a private hospital !!les~ay with high fever and an irregular heartbeat, but her conditiOn Is_ stable, said a medical official. The 79-year-old Roman Catholic nun, revered in India as a living saint, was born in Albania. She founded the Missionaries of Charity, an order of 3,000 nuns in 87 countries, in 1950. 
Greece's mistrust of its old enemy Turkey. a NATO ally, blocked Western plans to propose limits on military maneuvers, sources reported Thursday after talks in Vienna resumed on re­ducing conventional forces in Europe. U.S. Ambassador Stephen Ledogar was optimistic about the third six-week round of discus­sion, referring to the "breathtaking pace" of the 23-nation talks, which began in March. Diplomatic sources said, however, that Greece felt NATO set the limits too high when it proposed requir­ing maneuvers to be announced in advance if 40,000 reservists would be called up or 1,200 armored personnel carriers used. 

NATIONAL BRIEFS 
President Bush denounced a House-passed defense bill as "totally unacceptable" in a speech on Thursday to American Le­gion members in Baltimore which also included strong anit-drug themes. The extradition of Eduardo Martinez Romero to face U.S. drug money-laundering charges "sends a strong signal of the courage and determination of President Barco and the Colombian government to deal with the scourge which drugs are inflicting on all of us," Bush said. 
Senate tax-writers indicated Thursday they would join their House counterparts and go along with major changes in Medicare insurance covering the costs of a catastrophic illness. The pro­gram, enacted barely a year ago, is under heavy fire from some older Americans who say they don't need the protection and from others -mainly those with higher incomes -who object that the coverage is financed only by the elderly and not by all taxpayers. 
Gen. Michel Aoun said Thursday that u.s. foreign policy is "biased and shortsighted," then asked American help in what the Christian leader calls the war of liberation against Syrian troops in Lebanon. Syrians and Christians exchanged artillery fire for five hours before dawn Thursday and police reported two dead and seven wounded. At least 830 people have been killed and 2,462 wounded since the artillery war began March 8. Nearly all the vic­tims have been civilians. 
Singer La Toya Jackson denied Thursday that she married her manager in a quiet civil ceremony in Las Vegas, say­ing an imposter had signed her name to Washoe (Nev.) County court wedding documents. "It could have been an imposter," Jackson said in a telephone interview with The Associated Press. "It's totally untrue that I got married. I'm not ready for marriage yet. I'm too involved in my career right now." 

INDIANA BRIEFS 
If you live in Toto, the place to be next weekend if the eighth annual Wizard of Oz Festival in Chesterton. In fact, the festival's executive director, Ross Amundson, has invited every resident of the Starke County town to be his special guest at the Sept. 15-17 festival, which will honor the 50th anniversary of the MGM film classic. "Actually, the author of 'The Wizard of Oz,' L. Frank Baum, summered at Bass Lake,'' Amundson said. "He did some of his writing there. He probably came up with the name of Toto from that." 
First lady Susan Bayh said Thursday that a non-profit foundation will be formed to combat illiteracy in Indiana. Mrs. Bayh also unveiled public service announcements she has made to help focus attention on the state's illiteracy problem and the programs that are available to fight it. In addition to her Indianapolis news conference, Mrs. Bayh also traveled by State Police airplane to Fort Wayne, South Bend, Terre Haute and Gary Thursday to talk about literacy month. 

WEATHER 
--m 
'•' 

Humid 
Partly sunny, warm and humid today with a 30 percent chance of thundershowers. Highs in the middle 80s. Mostly cloudy and warm tonight with a 50 percent chance of thunder­storms. Lows in the upper 60s. Mostly cloudy and warm Saturday with a 50 percent chance of thunderstorms. Highs in the lower 80s. 
hforn1ation compiled from Observer wires and Observer staff reports. 
Whine, whine, whine, whine, whine 
A fine surprise, and indeed it was, to find that I could do this column, for I have had a number of ideas, like spinning dirvishes, coursing through my mind. Finally, I thought, I can get this stuff off my shoulders, while enlightening and delighting my fellow students at the same time. 
The food! Yes, I can complain about the food, I thought. Gosh, those burgers are horrible, aren't they? And some of that other stuff ­Monterey Muffin Melt, for instance. Are_n't allit­eration foods hazardous to your health? Yuck, and the way the grease congeals on your plate like dirty brown jell-o from the chicken they serve every night -but no, I reconsidered. Food's been done before. 
The Alcohol Policy! I can complain about a policy that preaches responsible drinking but encourages students to lock themselves up in their rooms and hide their drinking. Sure, I thought, the Administration should make up its mind. Either make the campus dry or let us have keg parties on God Quad with Monk passing out the cups. Nah, I admitted, that's unoriginal. 
The Administration! I can whine about the Administration, that huge impersonal hierarchi­cal machine of power, which would remain im­passive while its students died of thirst and un­fulfilled desire, while drowning them in the sea of rules known as Du Lac. And this Monk guy, our president, is he a master of Newspeak or what? Has anyone ever heard him say anything of substance without mentioning "the human community" or "the Notre Dame family?" Should I do it? Heck no, I trembled, I might be suspended or flogged or something. 
South Bend! I can bemoan life in South Bend, 


OF INTEREST 

University Health Services needs vol­unteers today and Monday for clerical work during the measle vaccinations on campus. Any­one who can help please contact Carol Seager, director of University Health Services at 239­7479. 
Mandatory measles vaccinations will be administered today to all students and Uni­versity employees born after 1957 who have not been vaccinated against measles since 1980. Vaccinations will be available from noon to 9 
p.m. in the Infirmary, in the concourse of the Hesburgh Library, and in the Dooley Room of LaFortune Student Center. 
A public bike auction will take place on September 9, at 9 a.m. outside the Security Of­fice at the Firehouse Building. The property to be auctioned will be bicycles that have been lost or abandoned on the campus. 
Juniors are reminded that now is the time to apply for the Executive Committee for Junior Parents' Weekend. Applications are available in the Student Activities Office, third floor, LaFortune. Call Maryann at 283-2855. 
Eucharistic Ministry Workshops are being held today at 2:30 p.m. in Stepan Center. The workshop will take place again Tuesday at 10 p.m. All who were commissioned last fall or are entering the ministry for the first time are required to attend either workshop. 
All past Notre Dame Encounter partic­ipants are reminded that palanca for the September retreat are due Sept. 14 at Campus Ministry. Call Rita at 283-2897. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Sain: Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur­chased for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
The Observer is a member of The Assoc1ated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

'Make the campus 
dry or let us have keg parties on God Quad with Monk passing out cups.' 
Florentine Hoelker 
Assistant News Editor 

the city of lights. What a metropolis, huh? For­get it. Not even worth mentioning. 
The Football Team! (Notice the capital letters, denoting great importance.) I can praise the football team, Notre Dame's raison d'etre. We do have a great football team, I guess, and a coach worthy of the highest praise. Come here for an education? Hell, no! Just so I can get tickets as an alum. But no, I might get worked over in a dark alley, so I'll drop that idea. 
Music! I can complain about modern music. What's the idea with names of bands these days? White Snake, White Lion, Great White, White Trash. Don't these guys have any origi­nality? Are they stuck in some kind of rut when it comes to other colors to describe their band? What's next -Off-White? No, I can't write about music. If I do, some band will release an­other remake, and with my luck, "Whiter Shade of Pale." 
That's it. I'm out of ideas. As far as I can re­call, I've mentioned and/or whined about every­thing possible that concerns us students. Except for the social life and men/women ratio! I can complain about the ratio ... 
The Notre Dame French Club is having its. first organizational meeting today at 6 p.m. in the International Students' Organization Lounge, second floor, LaFortune. Anyone inter­ested in joining or helping plan this year's activi­ties, please come. No French knowledge re­quired. Call Cindy at 283-4248. 
Lyons Hall Volleyball Tournament and picnic will be held Saturday, at Stepan Center field, from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. North Dining Hall will be closed, but South Dining Hall will be open. In the event of rain, both dining halls will be open. 
Organizational Garners Exchange 
meeting for all role players and strategy garners will be held Sunday at 1 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room, LaFortune. There will be free gaming available until 5 p.m. 
The first yearbook meeting will be held at 7:30 p.m. Sunday in the Dome Office, third floor, LaFortune. All newcomers are encouraged to attend. 
Beca1,.1se of the closing of Sacred Heart Church, the formal opening of the 1989-90 aca­demic year will take place in Stepan Center at 10 
a.m. on Sunday, September 10, with a concele­brated Mass. Please note that this is one half hour earlier than in previous years. The presid­ing celebrant will be University President Father Edward Malloy. The homilist will be Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
The Sophomore Class Mass will be held this Sunday at 4 p.m. in front of the Grotto. Rain location is the Morrissey Chapel. 
Design Edllor .................... Joe Zadrozny Design Assitant ............ Christina Ortiz Typesetters ....................... Fritz Valsaint, .................................................... Chris Zaback News Editor ......................... Kelley Tuthill News Copy Editor ............ Monica Yant Sports Copy Editor ........... Ken Tysiac, .................................................... Mary Garino, ................................................... Theresa Kelly Viewpoint Editor........ Christine Walsh VIewpoint Copy Editor Janice O'Leary Accent Edltor .............. Robyn Simmons Accent Copy Editor .... Paige Smoron Accent Designer ............ Brian Grunert Typlsts ........................................Will Zamer NO Day Editor ............Karen Balcerzak Photographer ........................... L.A. Scott Ads Designer ............. Shannon Roach, 

.................................................... Regis Cocc~ 

Friday, September 8, 1989 
The Observer page 3 
Sittings for SENI0 R PORTRAITS are already in their second week. Have you made your appointment YET?!! Don't miss your LAST opportunity to be in your college yearbook!!! Due to popular demand, sign-ups continue at LaFortune everyday 12:30-5:30 at the Information Desk. 
SENIOR PORTRAIT sittings are still available: 
DATE: September 11-15 TIME: 12:00-8:00 PLACE: Room 108, LaFortune 

DATE: September 18-22 TIME: 10:00-6:00 PLACE: Room 108, LaFortune 
Registrar assigns classrooms 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER Senior Staff Reporter 

The location of classes is mainly dependent on their size and the needs of prof~s­sors, according to Assistant Registrar Dave Kil. 
Classes are assigned to rooms by the Registrar's Of­fice. Kil said that classes are assigned according to need. 
"Size is very important," said Kil. "A class that has an abundance of students. more than expected, might have to be moved to a bigger room in a different building." 
Different types of classes will also be assigned to dif· ferent rooms, said Kil. A lec­ture class has different needs than a discussion group or a lab, so would hence be placed in a dif· ferent room. 
Requests from professors also play a role in class as· signment, Kil said. Profes-

IlliNOIS • INDIANA 
CHICAGO 
MOTOR 

CLUB 

John P. O'Malley 
Sales Representative New Memberships or Transfers Auto & Property Insurance 
AAA-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 5922 GRAPE ROAD INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 
219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 Please ask for John O'Malley. 
sors or departments may " •·Kit Reassignment may be in lodge requests to have their the same building or in a classes in a certain building building across campus. de­and room, and the Regis-pending upon what is avail· trar's Office tries to honor able. these requests as much as "We basically have to ac-possible. ••·•·• ,,commodate the needs of the 
"If a professor has several , classes with what is avail­classes back-to-hack, tM " able," said Kil. 
Registrar's Offic.e tries have their classes, if not · the same room, in building or in a ••. • building to . . . · · distance they would walk," said Kil. 
The Registrar's Office celves the greatest of requests for classes meet between 9:30 a.m. · roughly 2 p.m., said Kil, must deal with them as come. In this instance, first-come. first-serve the professors' requests. 
If a request cannot honored, or if the class bigger than the professor department anticipated would not fit into the room, it obviously have to be tea;sst:grtE~d, 

variables do come into class assignments. a of " 
shrinks a great .....,~'"''h so that it can 
to a smaller room, . be moved so that a class which needs 
can take its old room. 

level does not play. a in placement, accord­Kit A 100-level course 
same consideration the Registrar as a 400­
Second, each admissions counselor is making a greater 
[ @-==o=,.=,"=i==;'oJ 
.. THE ITALIAN RISTORANTE" 
Now Hiring full time experienced waitresses able to start at 3:00 pm, pizza makers, line cooks and part time banquet waitresses. 
Apply 2-5 pm 1412 South Bend Ave. 232-4244 

Record 16 percent of ND freshmen are minorities 
By MAURA LONG Staff Reporter 
Despite the national trend of declining minority enrollment in universities, a record 16 per­cent of Notre Dame's freshmen are members of minority groups. 
This figure is up three per­cent from last year and exceeds the 15 percent minority repre­sentation the University had hoped to achieve by 1991. 
In the past, the biggest prob­lem has been the relatively few number of minority applica­tions, but this has changed re­cently, according to Kevin Rooney, director of undergrad­uate admissions. 
Rooney said two changes in the admissions office account for this success. 
First, the admissions office hired minority undergraduates to work as student recruitment coordinators. "This is very sig­nificant," Rooney said, "because nothing is more con­vincing than students commu­nicating with other students." 
effort to contact minority stu­dents in recruitment regions across the nation. This has re­sulted in a larger percentage of minorities in the applicant pool, said Rooney. 
"The students and admissions officers working closely to­gether" is what Rooney consid­ers to be the greatest factor contributing to the increasing minority enrollment. 
A report made by the Univer­sity Committee on Minority Students in the spring of 1988 recommended 17 percent mi­nority enrollment by 1991. 
However, the University's of­ficially released goal was 15 percent by 1991, according to a press release. 
According to Rooney. the thrust of the report was that "the quality of life and the qual­ity of education at Notre Dame would be enhanced if there were a greater presence of mi­nority students, faculty, and staff." 
While the University has a goal of a greater minority en­rollment, there is no quota to be met, said Rooney. 
"Nationwide, most minority groups have lower SAT scores," Rooney said. This results in "discounting SAT scores to a greater degree" on minority applications. This is the only difference between minority applications and others, ac­cording to Rooney. 
Additionally. only about 15 percent of the enrolled black students are scholarship ath­letes. This is a stable percent­age and does not play a part in the increasing enrollment, said Rooney. 






SENIOR PORTRAITS­LAST CHANCE!!! 
Friday, September 8, 1989
page 4 The Observer 
Drawings and sculpture featured at SMC art exhibit 
By SANDRA WIEGAND News Staff 
An art exhibit opens tonight at the Moreau Hall galleries at Saint Mary's College. 
Prints and drawings by Sister Louise Kames and the ceramic sculpture and drawings of Eva Kwong and Kirk Mangus will be featured. 
Kames will be present at a free public reception from 7 to 9 p.m. tonight. 
Kames, an assistant profes­sor of art at Clark College in Dubuque, Iowa. has been ex­hibiting her work since 1976. 

Her recent works use common objects as metaphors for the human presence, stressing the inner spirituality of the individ­ual. 
"It is the ordinary in life that carries the power and meaning of the holy," she explains in her current artis(s statement. 
Kames' art was recently given a juror's special commendation at the 1989 North American Print Exhibition in Boston. 
Mangus and Kwong are both graduates of the Rhode Island School of Design. They are married and presently live in Kent, Ohio. Mangus is an assis­tant professor of art at Kent State University. 
Mangus has also served as an artist-in-residence at the Na­tional Museum of Modern Art in Seoul, Korea, and at Atalier du Verre in France. 
Both Mangus and Kwong were jurors at an art competi­tion at Saint Mary's last year. 
The exhibit includes about 11 total works by Kames, 20 ce­ramics by Kwong, and five ce­ramics, three large-scale sculp­tures, and ten drawings by Mangus. 
Former PTL board member testifies he never knew about money paid to Hahn 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.-A former PTL board member testified Thursday he didn't know about hush money paid to Jessica Hahn until two months before Bakker quit the television min­istry over the sex and money scandal. 
"I never knew the name Jes­sica Hahn until January 1987," Ernie Franzone of Fort Laud­erdale, Fla., said at Bakker's federal trial on fraud and con­spiracy charges. 
Other testimony centered ou cash flow problems at the min­istry, including problems at its flagship hotel at the same time Bakker was insisting on such touches as a $15,000 chande­lier, despite millions of dollars that were pledged daily. 
PTL paid Hahn $265,000 in 1985 to keep quiet about her sexual encounter with Bakker on Dec. 6, 1980, at a Florida hotel. Bakker resigned in March 1987 as PTL chief. The Hahn payment was made by PTL's builder, who then added the amount to his bill. 
Bakker, 49, is being tried on 24 counts of fraud and con­spiracy. Prosecutors say Bakker used nearly $4 million in ministry funds obtained from the sale of partnerships in the ministry's hotel to bankroll his extravagant lifestyle. 
Thursday's was the first full day of testimony after the trial resumed following Bakker's breakdown and commitment in a federal prison for psychiatric evaluation last week. 
U.S. District Judge Robert Potter let the trial resume Wednesday, and denied a de­fense motion for a mistrial after a government psychiatrist that Bakker had suffered a "panic attack" last week but was competent to stand trial. 
Bakker was composed during Thursday's testimony, taking notes and talking with his at­torneys as witnesses testified. 
Franzone, regional manager of the company that managed Bakker's Heritage Grand Hotel, said he wouldn't have approved 
·------:;-~~::--:;~---~ 
;~~~­
with the purchase of 14"" or 18" Sub. Good SeplemDer 5 through 10. 1989 
FREE DELIVERY! 
z.?t-ott3 
113 DIXIE WAY NORTH


L------­
,...._]I ~· _______.. 

bonuses for Bakker, his wife, Tammy, and former PTL Exec­utive Vice President Richard Dortch had he known about Hahn. Dortch has been sen­tenced to eight years in prison 
and  fined  $200,000  for  his  
guilty plea  to  four fraud  and  
conspiracy charges.  

"That would have been the red light for me," Franzone 
testified. "I would have taken another look at whether I would have stayed on the board." 
Franzone also said he never remembered voting a bonus for Bakker of more than $100,000 although the board's minutes 
show Bakker frequently re­ceived bonuses double 

that ••••••••••iiiliiilliiililiilill•••••••••l 
amount. 

.---------------------------------·-­
1~ FREE SANDWICH : 
BUY ANY GARDEN FRESH 1~~E%dl SANDWICH AT REG. PRICE : 
1  RUTAUIWIT  & RECEIVE SECOND AT SAME OR  1  
....,..  LESSER VALUE FREE.  •  
1 EAT IN OA CARRY OUT Ol't.Y  HAMBURGERS, CHICKEN BREAST, CHICKEN SALAD, B.L.T.'S ETC.  1  

1 

NOT APPliCABlE WITH ANY Oll-ER OFFER OA COU'ON EXP. JJ 31 89 I 
·-----------------------------------­
University Park Mall-next to Sears Part time help wanted-Excellent wage 277-6930 
I,"M~CJ ~~~L..-::z:;,e-~·o·~o~a~~a~ ~[9
Q~·t.::J•~~o~-'bwcll~~~~GT:/•a•o<>"<;~•A; 
i~ JUNIORS * JUNIORS * JUNIORS ~~ 
0~ BE AN INTEGRAL PART OF JUNIOR PARENTS ~~~ 
YJ WEEKEND! ~ .. 
o.~ 

~ APPLICATIONS FOR THE EXECUTIVE ~





llfJ ~
COMMITIEE ARE NOW AVAILABLE IN THE ~c ~ STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE----> 3rd FLOOR -.~ LaFORTUNE. o0 
·~ 
~t DEADLINE TO APPLY SEPT. 18th ~~ 
~~ ANY QUESTIONS? CALL MARYANN x2855 ,~; 
!11~-Q~f<:>~~~~~•'(::c.·~~u ~t!i ~ 
\.:l~~m~~¢~ 0~~.'1~· .Q•o~t,. o~ 
BBFOBEYOU HAVE TO BURY YOO'R HEAD IN BOOKS••• 

ComeSeeUsl 

JUST WHEN YOU NEED IT 
Th~ Navy has S30.000 or mon.­
to h~lp you finish your last rwo 
vears of college. 

The Naval Rcsen·e Officers Training Corps (NROTC) Two· Year Scholarship Program can pay }'Our ruition, textbooks and insuuctional fees. plus gh~ you a monthly $100 ta.x·free allowance during your last 20 months of college. 
Upon graduation you"ll be commissioned a Na\'Y officer and enjoy the benefits and opponunities offen-d, such as <~dvanced education in any of thc:­Navy's high-tech fields. 
NROTC rwo-ye<~r schol<~rships are highly competitive . Applic;uions must be tumed in t."arly in your sophomore )'ear. For more information. see or call: 
LT Dan Cochran 
239-7274 



NAVY ROTC 
You areTomorrow. You are the Navy. 

Bill Tourtillotte, a represen­tative of the Moreau Hall gal­leries, expects two more pro­fessional artists to visit Saint Mary's this fall, and another to visit in spring. Saint Mary's generally has about one exhibit per month at the galleries. 
....... 
Tourtillotte, who is at the galleries from 10 to 12 a.m. 

Tuesday through Friday, said he is willing to answer any questions about the exhibit. 
The present exhibit runs through September 29. Admis­sion is free, and the gallery is open from 10 a.m. to noon and 1 to 4 p.m. Tuesday through Friday; 10 a.m. to noon on Sat­urday, and 1 to 4 p.m. on Sun­day. 
GUESS WHO HAS A BIRTHDAY ON 
SEPTEMBER 11th. 
AND WHERE HE WANTED TO GO TO 
SPACE ·~5~T 

ALTERNATIVES 
11 _gtuat~ntJ -Ot:t«ni]• lfout: _gtot:«t• _gp«ct~.'" 
• 
INDIVIDUAL OR STACKING BASKET SYSTEMS 

• 
FREE STANDING MODULAR STORAGE SYSTEMS 

• 
ACCESSORIES FREE STANDING SHOE RACKS TIE & BELT RACKS 




SHOW STUDENTID 
FOR DISCOUN11 
4609 GRAPE RD. JMS PLAZA Mishawaka, IN DIRECTLY SOUTH OF RYAN'S STEAK HOUSE 
272-5404 


Friday, September 8, 1989 
The Observer

-·-----------page 5 


Nouwen 
continued from page 1 
sation with two mentally handi­capped L'Arche residents, Gre­gory Lannan and Karen Neale. 
"I came from an institution where I was not wanted,"said Lannan. He now works in a lo­cal supermarket in Toronto, and also helps around the house with house work. "It feels great to take care of my own home," he said. 
Nouwen then led the audito­rium in a song he wrote for the community, and in prayer. The audience asked questions, fol-
r--­
INOW 



!OPEN 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
lowed by a reception at the Cen­ter for Social Concerns. 
The lecture, the first in Notre Dame's Year of the Family series of presentations, was sponsored by the Center For Social Concerns, the Logan Cen­ter, and several student orga­nizations at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. 
Nouwen and the group will be making presentations to a Psy­chology Department gathering and an anthropology class this afternoon. On Saturday, there will be a L'Arche day of recol­lection at the Center for Social Concerns from 10:30 a.m. to 
3:30 p.m. 
Ph. (219) 258-5898 
OPEN: 

Mon.-fhurs. 1 0 to 9 Fri. & Sat. 10 to 10 Sunday 12 to 6 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA-More than 10,000 measles cases were re­ported in the United States in the first eight months of this year -three times the number reported all last year. 
The national Centers for Dis­ease Control blamed the 1989 increase, which follows two years of declines, on the failure to vaccinate young children and ineffective vaccinations. 
The CDC said Thursday that 10,115 cases of the once­widespread childhood disease had been reported through last week. 
That's nearly five times the 2,170 cases reported at the same time last year and also is well above the 3,411 reported for the entire year in 1988. 
This year has seen a large number of outbreaks, most of them in the nation's high schools and colleges, the At­lanta-based CDC said. 
So far this year, more than 90 measles outbreaks have been reported, including one large outbreak among unvacci­nated preschoolers in Houston, which struck more than 1,700. 
---·--·I I I I I 

More than 10,000 cases of measles reported in U. S. in first 8 months of '89 
I ~CO's $11.99 Tapes $6.99 
I 
Rolling Stones -"Steel Wheels"
I 
Camper VanBeethoven -"Key Lime Pie"
I 
Ziggy Marley -"One Bright Day"
I 
B-52's -"Cosmic Thing"
I 
Bodeans -"Home"
I 
Hoodoo Gurus -"Magnum Cum Louder"
I 
I Big Audio Dynamite -"Megatop Phoenix" 
I I T-Shirts (Stones '89 tour, Wax Trax, REM, etc.)I 
Giant Import Posters
I 
Import CD's, tapes,& LP's
I 
I Independent Label Selection I (SubiXJp, Wax'I'rax, 4ad, SST, rrore) I BLANK TAPE -'IDK, Maxell and Denon at-GREAT PRICES 
I I 
We Buy, Sell, & Trade Used LP's, Tapes,, & CD's
I 
We honor competitor's coupons
I 
~Record Store that still carries Records!! We Have Vinyl!!
I 
1 Down to Earth Prices -Out of this World Selection 


-------------------------------------~ 
weekly report. The other is the failure of vaccinations to pro­tect some people, which has al­lowed outbreaks in "highly vac­cinated" school populations. 
The CDC earlier this year rec­ommended a second dose of measles vaccine for children beginning kindergarten or first grade. 
Everyone born since 1957­

measles was so widespread that Americans had some natural immunity -is 1 ------fialiiCi'~J considered a potential measles 
risk. "It would be an expensive, exhaustive undertaking to re­\---------'rlf!J vaccinate everybody born since 
Source: CDC in Atlanta AP 
The unvaccinated young chil­dren, particularly in outbreak­prone inner cities, are one of two major impediments to wip­ing out measles in the United States, the CDC said in its 1957," but revaccinating chil­dren upon school entry should "start chipping away" at the problem, said Dr. Steve Wassi­lak, a CDC immunization spe­cialist. 
The CDC also has recom­mended earlier vaccinations for inner-city children -as early as 9 months, rather than the standard 15 months-to try to prevent large outbreaks, and revaccinations for certain chil­dren in the case of school measles outbreaks. 
nJE§IHIMITEN 
RAFTING ON THE EAST RACE SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 9,1989 9:00am until11:30am 
Bus Leaves ND Main Circle at 8:30, 9:00, 9:30, lO:OOam East Race at 10:30 and 11:30am 
NO TICKETS NO CHARGE 





R;.E.M. 
E 
L 
u 

SPECIAL NRBQ
GUEST 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29 JOYCE ACC NOTRE DAME 
N 
D R 

Tickets available at JOYCE ACC BOX OFFICE and ALL TICKETMASTER LOCATIONS 
including L.S. AYRES (Univ Park and Scottsdale Malls) NIGHTWINDS (Niles, Mi)-SUPERSOUNDS (Concord Mall) MUSIC MAGIC (Benton Harbor. Mi)-CARSON PIRIE SCOTT (Mich. City. In) 
OR CHARGE BY PHONE 

1-800·284-3030 AtJffi; / • .Ia PRODUCTION 
F A L L 
r 
If you are interested in 
Friday, September 8, 1989 

NEWS 
or 


SPORTS 
or 


VIEWPOINT 
or 


~. ACCENT 
or 


PHOTOGRAPHY 
or 



LAYOUT 
or 


ART, 

Then come to Montgomery Theater on Sunday, Sept. 10, at 7 p.m. 
Ihe Obseorer ...it's your campus newspaper. 
-

Viewpoint
Friday, September 8, 1989 page 7 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor ...... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............. Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor. .. ............. Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ........ Shannon Roach Sports Editor... . . ....Theresa Kelly Production Manager ............ Aiison Cocks Accent Editor ........................... John Blasi Systems Manager .............. Mark Derwent Photo Editor ............................ Eric Bailey OTS Director ................... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor.............. Christine Gill Controller....... .. ............ Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob­jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Learning should not be confined to classrooms 
By Terence Coyne 
He told me his name was Frank, but I am sure it was just an alias. I did not care at that moment. I saw Frank not as a tired, alcoholic, homeless man, but rather a person standing in the way of the door which I wanted to close for the day. He came to the Cleveland West Side Catholic Center to get some clothes and try to find a place to sleep other than the abandoned crack house across the street, which he called home. 
Impatiently, I gave him all the clothes that he asked for and hoped he would quickly leave, but Frank had no place to go and he saw me as a friendly face, so we talked for almost an hour about his life and his dashed hopes and dreams. His tale taught me more about the street and the problems of the homeless than any class I could have taken a university. This job was actually part of a class which has taught me an enormous amount, without ever opening up a book. 
Through the coordination of the Center For Social Concerns more than 80 students, including myself, participated in the Summer Service Project, which consists of working at a site, such as a homeless shelter, and taking a follow-up course. Although the year has just begun, I already know that my follow-up class is going to be the best one on my schedule. 
Why? Not because my other teachers are unsatisfactory, rather because I am contributing directly to what is learned by the other students, instead of being a receptacle of another person's insights. But even without the follow up class 
DOONESBURY 
600[) AFTt/<NOON. I HAVe A 
8RilfANN(}()NC&Mtwr 70 MAX£. TO[)AYATif:05A.M., MRS. 8U5H &N([)UNTt;R£1)A I.AR6I5 RATIA/HIU3 SWIMMING IN 7Hl3 WHIT& HOuse POOL. ... 
the project would have been a success I learned to adapt to a foreign situation and in adapting I discovered a lot about myself and the issue of poverty and homelessness. 
Many of the classes I have had both in high school and college consisted of the teacher lecturing and the student listening and writing. I know this method works, in fact pound for pound a student may learn more in this type of an arrangement, but nothing can replace the excitement and the fun of first-hand learning. How else could I have met Mac, a deinstitutionalized mental patient who had a master's degree in chemistry from Northwestern. who chose to live on the street despite everyone's attempts at helping him. 

Evidence that experiential learning is popular can be seen in the success of the foreign study programs run through the University. Students want to go away for many reasons and learning about things first hand may not always be number one, but when they come back it is usually one of the first things they talk about. Classroom lectures can never take the place of first hand experience. I knew a lot about Appalachia before I went there last year, but my experience put faces on what I learned and I know that I will forget my book knowledge before I will forget what I learned during my visit. 
Some may argue that I am suggesting something that will take either too much time or money, but Notre Dame has many programs to fit the different likes of all the students, from two-day Urban Plunges to summer long service projects. And this is not to say that the Center for Social Concerns is the only place to go to find opportunities like these. A quick review of the departments shows that sociology, American studies, psychology, Hesburgh program, peace studies, and some area studies have experiential learning programs. From my own experience most teachers are more than willing to help a student find some type of program. Of course if you are ever totally lost just go to the Center for Social Concerns, they are always more that willing to help. 


We spend only four years in college. After that, most of us will go off and begin our professional lives, and many of us will never have left the confines of the classroom to learn a lesson. 
AFTt;R CON5/.Jl,TIN6 WITH THe APPRIJPRIA~ Mtlrl8ei<S CF([)N­~~ Oil? meNl?S AU, AT 2:OoP.M., 7He PR&Sir::eJT 8£:6AN 7V IMPI./fMtwTH/5/WC.Y, AN{}P//3 &XPfCf TH/3CRI51<3 TO 8/3 ?e501-V/31? 
5110/lJl.-Y. I 
yourself. Even some of the people who complained about a bad Summer Service Project only had themselves to blame because they made no effort to make their situation more interesting. 
On my job this summer I befriended three little children named Tanika, Terence, and Dawn. Everyday I would play with them, sneak them candy and toys, and just try to be the big brother they needed but did not have. On my last day all three of the children cried and the oldest girl said she felt like she was losing an older brother, I felt very sad, but also extremely touched that they had become so close to me. In what other classroom could I have felt so sad because I was losing so many close friends, yet al~o feel so happy because I met unusual people and learned more than ever before? 
I can honestly say that it 

Why would a person sit back and passively watch college go by? So many students complain about not having a good class or professor. Why not be your own classroom and professor by getting involved in University-supported programs and learning about things from a first hand perspective? You can not blame anyone for a bad experience except yourself. There is no teacher to guide you along; you have to guide changed my perspective. my beliefs, and possibly changed the direction of my life. How many other classes can claim to have made such a difference in 
anyone's  life?  I know  of  no  
others  that  can  even  come  
close.  

Terence Coyne is a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters 
Viewpoint would like to occasionally highlight quotes from faculty members, students and readers. So if you or someone you know says something intellectually stimulating, brilliantly funny, or clearly controversial, send the quote to Viewpoint, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
NeV&R MINI), GEOR/3C. Hf3'S E£JNe. 
~ 
\f/0 IVNApt I~'Oft/?-J /Uf!Ap/ 

'Some feel being a Catholic university and being a great university are contradictory. Notre Dame won't buy this. It insists that it can be both Catholic and great.' 
Dr. Joseph Murphy Class of 1948 Casper Star-Tribune 








HERE, 
A guide to the 
fri. 
MOVIES 
"No Way Out" Engineering Auditorium, 8, 10:15 p.m. "Dangerous Liasons" Annenberg, 7, 9:30p.m. 

MUSIC 
"Cats on Holiday" Theodore's, 10 p.m. to 1 a.m. 


sat. 
MOVIES 
"Meatballs" 
Engineering Auditorium, 8, 10:15 p.m. "Dangerous Liasons" 
Annenberg, 7, 9:30 p.m. 

MUSIC 
Dance Party: guest OJ' s Theodore's, 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. 
FORUM CINEMAS North Village Mall 277-1522 The Abyss Batman Peter Pan Nightmare on Elm St. 5 
100 CENTER CINEMA 259-0414 Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade Weekend at Bernie's 
SCOTTSDALE CINEMAS 259-909o 
Nightmare on Elm St. 5 Casualties of War Field of Dreams 
TOWN AND COUNTRY 2340HickoryRd.259-909o Eddie and the Cruisers II Relentless Parenthood UNIVERSITY PARK EAST 6424 Grape Rd 277-7336 
Field of Dreams  Lethal Weapon II  
Young Einstein  Honey I Shrunk the Kids  
Ghostbusters  Dead Poets Society  
Turner & Hooch  Uncle Buck  
Peter Pan  The Abyss  


UNIVERSITY PARK WEST 
When Harry Met Sally Casualties of War Cheetah 




'Casualties of War' ve 

MICHELLE BERNINGER accent writer 
"Casualties of War" is not just another Vietnam movie. 
The Brian DePalma film takes a new twist by encapsulating the United States' involvement in Vietnam in a simple, dra­matic incident. Unlike most war movies, "Casualties of War" reminds us that murder is murder, even in war. 
The film depicts the true story of a squad of soldiers ordered on a dangerous long­range reconnaissance mission during the Vietnam War. At the command of its sergeant, Me­serve (Sean Penn), the group abducts a young Vietnamese woman, Oahn (Thuy Thu Le), to provide some "portable R & R" throughout the journey. 
Torn between his loyalty to his squad and his own moral values, the most recently en­listed man, Eriksson (Michael J. Fox), is the only member who finally breaks from the protec­tive circle of the squad and tries unsuccessfully to prevent the subsequent gang rape and murder of Oahn. 
The war has obviously hard­ened most of the young men-
we even start to question their sanities at certain points. But even one man who at first ap­pears to share Eriksson's feel­ings about the kidnapping soon submits to the coercion of the sergeant. 
Despite a lack of assistance and a narrow escape from death (at the hands of his own comrades), Eriksson is eventu­ally able to bring charges against his squad, and each member finally gets what he de­serves. 
Fox effectively portrays the sensitive youth caught in a world of tough men, now quite indifferent to the value of hu­man life. He shockingly reveals the conflict between indepen­dent, idealistic thinking and blind submission, with the lat­ter seemingly more effective in fulfilling the Army's needs. 
The role of Meserve allows Penn to live up to his arrogant, hard-nosed reputation. He plays the part with ease. The sergeant is a competent leader but seems to have lost any re­maining sensitivity early in the movie following the death of hi~ beloved friend, the squad's ra­dio man. 
At times the movie jumps too abruptly from scene to scene, whereas some scenes tend to drag unnecessarily. At the end, we are left wondering what will occur after the men complete their sentences. Revenge is often mentioned, but the film reveals nothing of what the fu­ture holds for Eriksson. 
The war scenes are credible. They should be, considering that during the film's pre-pro­duction period, the actors were put through a form of extensive military training in Thailand, where the movie was filmed. 
"Casualties of War" is not pleasant to watch. DePalma emphasizes the indifference to human suffering by leaving lit­tle to the imagination. If you don't have the stomach for typ­ical war movie gore and an ex­plicit rape scene, this movie would not be a good choice to see. 
At the end of the film. De­Palma stresses the importance of putting the past behind us after learning something from it, and then going on with our lives. By that time, if the in­tensity and gore hasn't gotten to you, you're lucky. Most peo­ple in the audience were ready to declaw themselves from their seats, and go on with their lives. 
page 9 

, 



BEACH? 
Warren Dunes State Park 
ncentrate on both their studies and the sun. (Above) Enjoying the beach on the 
Sophomores survey the scene. 
dunes is only from campus, 
observation The roads of Michigan, 
. Right the park, there with 
admittance per car for 
With the sticker, the park employee hands you a small piece of paper detailing the Alcoholic Beverage Ban. No one may possess or consume alco­holic beverages of any kind in any part of the State Park. Food may be brought in, for many people had small coolers for lunches and snacks. There were also radios playing, which are allowed as long as the noise level is not too high. 
After paying the entrance fee, you drive along a winding road . Right after a bend, a huge dune, about six stories high, looms above. The side facing the beach is very steep, and clumps of trees grow out of the sand. A paved road separates the dune from the strip of beach by the water. 
Although the water is cold this time of year, it and the beach are clean, a welcome change from the sad conditions of the East Coast shoreline. On 
Photos by Sarah Jane Vakkur 
the day we went, there were 

some good-sized waves enjoyed 
by children in rafts and adults who dove into them. The beach is quite long, so there was plenty of room for the crowds that were there. Several trees also grow on the beach, so there are a few shady areas. 
The facilities are just like those of any other beach, not outstanding, but not terrible. Hamburgers, hot dogs, candy, and more snack bar food is available for slightly inflated prices for those who wish to eat on the beach. If not, some fast-food restaurants can be found along the drive there. Restrooms are also located close by the beach area. 
A day at the Warren Dunes is a welcome change from classes and assignments. It is also a great way to enjoy those last few days of beautiful weather, while desperately trying to hang on to a fading tan. 

diet: gory but good 
WARREN DUNES STATE 
LEGEND 
PA.Vi [)rf'O4'Q 
GRAVEL ROAD 
FOOT TRAIL 
~. MODERN CAMPGROUND 
~ SANITATION STATION ORGANIZA liON CAMPGROUND
(A.I 

TOILET/SHOWER
lOlli 

PICNIC AREA
~ 

PARKING
[Pl

8 BEACH @ HEAD QUARTERS 0 STATE LAND 0 SAND BLOWOUT 
FOR INFORMATION PLEASE CONTACT WARREN DUNES STATE PARK 
REO ARROW HIGHWAY 
SAWYER MI. 49125 
616-426-4013 
0 400' 1000 
~7"tio· 
SCALE 

(Michael J. Fox, left) refuses to join Meserve (Sean Penn, right) in his brutal treatment of a girl (Thuy Thu Le, middle) in Columbia Pictures' "Casualties of War," directed by Brian DePalma. 

~~~----------------------------------------------~T~h~e~O~b~s~e~N~e~r___________________________________F_rid_a~y~,_s_e~p_te_m_b_e_r_B_,_1_9__89 
Reunion proves 'you can't go home again' 

Starting September 8, the Hall Presidents' Council will be sponsoring WEEKEND WHEELS -ashuttle service from various locations off campus. On Friday and Saturday nights, students will have the opportunity to have a FREE and SAFE ride to campus. 
1
. Campus View 12:35 1:25 2:15 3:05 3:55-End 

2. 
Five Points (across from Amoco) 12:50 1:40 2:30 3:20 

3. 
St. Louis & Corby 1:00 1:50 2:40 3:30 

4. 
Main Circle 1:10 2:00 2:50 3:40 


~ 

5. Library Circle 1:15 2:05 2:55 3:45 
> 

Library Circle Ul
1

5 :::J
ND.. 
c.. 4 
E

Vaness caMain Circle 
* * 
> 
0

* ~ ai 
L­
> 
~ 
Edison 
Q) 
>­
"0
-Eca 
"0 

w Corby 
-
0 
... 
3 

-~I z -Q) 
.3 * 0 
* ­
the folks in my old neighbor­hood had for me. They were rooting for me to become the first American pope, and talked of taking up a collection I could use if ever the papacy were for sale. 
I attended that reunion in 1963 with high hopes. Halfway through dinner, I started to wonder what I was doing there. When the dance began, I had the choice of standing with the stag line at the bar, or, as a wallflower, listening to the mu­sic as though I were attending a concert. I decided to leave early, and felt that history was repeating itself. On graduation night, in 1943, I had left the dance early, humiliated by the realization that not a single girl there had pencilled my name on her dance card. Why was that? Probably because I was re­membered as the Class Yuck, though this wasn't an official title. 
I wasn't unhappy in high school, but I hope some of the time I spend there is subtracted from my purgatory, for I was overweight, pasty-faced, and painfully shy. Six months after graduation I was turned down by the army because I had high blood-pressure, and one of the valves of my heart was leaky. Life as a 4-F wasn't all beer and Skittles: it left me embar­rassed when I met classmates who were fighting a war, and it reinforced the self-image I had of myself as a Yuck. On the up­beat scale, I went on a diet for the sake of my health, and started dating Jane, a girl from the rival high school who was so pretty that Emily and Connie, by comparison, looked like a 

Have a good tillle... Leave your keys behind!!! 
matched set of apple dumplings. 
In t~ summer of '44, I began taking instructions as a Catholic. This past spring, I got a note from an 80-year-old priest living in Maine. He wrote: "I remember you ringing the bell when you were 18 or so, and I was a curate at St. Joseph's church in Portland. When I answered the door, you said you wanted to become a Catholic. I was very busy at the time because the pastor was sick, so I turned you over to an­other priest, and he turned you over to the Jesuits. It's a won­der you didn't get discouraged altogether... " I have never been in contact in any' way with that curate since then, but he was interested enough to keep track of me. In his letter, he invited me to stay with him when I came to Portland for the re­

.union on Sept. 9. lie had heard that I was attending, and it was dear of him to ask me to share his retirement digs. For a while I was ready to accept his invita­tion; and as a frequent-flyer, I even had a free trip coming to me from Piedmont. 
So what happened? I decided that you can't go home again, especially if you've ever been the Class Yuck. That's not the advice I'd offer you, but I know in my heart that for me, it's the truth. I have dreams of attend­ing my 50th class reunion in 1993, if I live so long, provided that before then I've become a hero in a way that will make my classmates sorry for ever hav­ing written me off as a Yuck. I don't want to leave the dance early again, feeling unloved and m;mppreciated by the peers 
whose respect and atTection I have hungered for all my life . 
The question has been asked: "How could .we have punished Hitler?" Maybe he would have been punished enough if he'd been fat and shy, attending high school in America. 


I've been trying for many months now to screw up my courage to attend a reunion of my high school class in Port­land, Maine; and since the event will take place tomorrow, Sept. 9, the indecision will soon give given up speaking to me when we were juniors, when I made a fool of myself, asking her to the movies. Emily, the class princess, was also quite chummy. I remember that as a girl, she was quite spoiled, as 
Letters to a Lonely God 
way to regrets. regret more: attending or not attending'! The first and last reunion I ever attended was in 
1963. (I don't remember get­ting an invitation to the only other rnunion, held in 1968). I was happy and excited about being there; but I'm not sure any of my classmates were happy and excited at seeing me there. I was wearing a new suit. and had just lost a ton of weight; and I looked the best I have ever looked in my long life as a Christian adult. I met a lot of people whom I've known, and have either liked or hated, since the first grade; but nei­ther of my best pals was there. 
I saw an old heartthrob named Connie, whom I once tried, unsuccessfully, to get a date with; she married a fellow whose family owned the biggest house-painting company in the city; down East on the coast of Maine, this counted as a bril­liant mateh. Connie said, in a rich, plummy voice: "What are you doing now, Robert?" The question seemed a little dumb, since she was a Catholic, and could see I was dressed as a priest; but. nevertheless, it was an icebreaker, since she had 
had gone to her head. It really 
shouldn't have, because it was 
new money, earned by immi­
grant Syrians who were suc­
cessful in selling groceries. 
My conversations with Emily, the supermarket queen, and Connie, the painter's bride, were the highlights of my evening; after that, everything went downhill. I had attended Sunday School at the Congrega­tional Church with half of the guys in my graduating class; but though they eyed the Roman collar, they didn't ask about it, because as Yankees, they weren't impressed with Catholics. Finally, the Caminiti Twins, who were Italian lads, asked me if I was a minister or a priest. It turned out that they had a bet going, and Joe won, because he had noticed I wasn't wearing a wedding ring. 
Maybe you're thinking it was no big deal for me to attend my first high school class reunion as a priest? For me, it was a big deal, for it was proof I hadn't landed on skid row, or turned into a lingerie salesman, pulling down (in the words of the old joke) 20,000 a year. I've never fulfilled the hopes that 

(;51  south send Ave.  2  
- 

The-~bserv~e~r~-~--------~-----------~-~--p-a-ge_1_1____'-!l 
Friday, September 8, 1989 
Mets clobber error-prone Cardinals; Cubs extend lead 
Associated Press 
Jefferies doubled in the first, hit a two-run homer in the third, doubled in the fourth and hit a three-run homer in the fifth. It was the first five-RBI game of his year-old major league career. 
St. Louis, which made a sea­son-high five errors, dropped one game behind the NL East­leading Chicago Cubs. New York closed to within three games. 
Viola, acquired from Minnesota on July 31, got 10 runs in his first seven starts for New York. It was just the third time in 15 starts since June 23 that he got more than three runs. 
Viola, 3-4, allowed six hits in seven innings, struck out six and walked two. He also got two hits and drove in the first run of his professional career. 
Ted Power, 6-7, gave up three runs and three hits before leaving with a strained right groin. Matt Kinzer was pounded for four runs and five hits as nine Mets batted in the fourth, and Bob Tewksbury al­lowed four runs in the fifth. 
Howard Johnson hit his 33rd homer for the Mets, and Pedro Guerrero hit his 13th for St. Louis. 
Cubs 6, Phillies 2 
Doug Dascenzo hit his first major-league home run and Mike Bielecki got his 15th vic­tory Thursday as the first-place Chicago Cubs beat the Philadelphia Phillies. 
The Cubs increased their lead in the National League East to 1 1/2 games over St. Louis. The Cardinals lost to New York 13­1 as the Mets remained in fourth place, 3 1/2 games be­hind. 
Chicago and St. Louis begin a three-game series Friday at Wrigley Field. 
Pirates 7, Expos 4 
Pinch hitter Jeff King tripled home the tiebreaking run and continued home on right fielder Mike Aldrete's error in the eighth inning as the Pittsburgh . Pirates beat the Montreal Expos Thursday night. 
The third-place Expos fell three games behind National League East-leading Chicago. 
Giants 7, Braves 5 
Kevin Mitchell hit his 42nd home run Thursday night and the San Francisco Giants rallied past the Atlanta Braves to maintain their lead in the National League West. 
San Francisco began the day with a six-game lead over San Diego in the division. 
The Giants scored three times in the seventh for a 4-all tie and took the lead against reliever Mike Stanton, 0-1. Donell Nixon led off with a single, pinch hitter Chris Speier dou­bled home the go-ahead run with two outs and Brett Butler hit an RBI single. 
Blue Jays 12, Indians 4 
George Bell hit a three-run double and Lloyd Moseby had three hits including a leadoff home run as the Toronto Blue Jays beat the Cleveland Indians in a rain-delayed game Thursday night. 
Mookie Wilson also had three of the Blue Jays' 17 hits. 
Toronto won its fourth straight and its ninth in the last 10, moving 15 games above .500 for the first time this year. The Blue Jays have led the American League East since Sept. 1 and are 66-39 since Cito Gaston replaced Jimy Williams as manager in May. 
Orioles 8, Rangers 3 
The Baltimore Orioles contin­ued their mastery over Nolan Ryan Thursday night, improv­
--------------~~-~~-~----:-"""":~-.--~~~~-:---"!"""---.....--------­

League 
continued from page 16 
Hill was the winner of the tournament, even though there were still three hours before the game had to be officially called. 
The CHE coaches ran from the meeting shouting, "We won, we won," as the furious Morristown coaches called the team into the dugout to try to explain what happened. Graziano went to the announc­ing booth and sat there, not bothering to talk to either team or make a formal announce­ment of his decision. 
"Our coaches congratulated us on a wonderful season," Hennessey said. "They were an­gry at the call that no one thought was fair. The field was fine in just about everyone's opinion -even people not from Morristown. 
"I was glad to have won Districts and Sectionals and been one of the last two teams in the state after about 457 played. I thought it over and looked on to next year." 
The team left the dugout for the last time as Little Leaguers, shook hands with the Cherry Hill team, and went home. CHE went on to the Regionals, where they lost to eventual Series champion Trumbull, Conn., 18­4. 
Next year, most of the Morristown team will be 13, too old for Little League. 
"I felt disappointed after coming back from the 1-0 loss and having our team play well and being really pumped up and ready," Hennessey said. "It was a shock; we didn't really believe it could happen. 
"The lesson 1 learned is you've got to take the ups and downs. Thousands of kids didn't even get as far as we did." 
A lot can be learned from a 12-year old. 
ing to 9-0 in Ryan's last 12 starts against them, with a win over the Texas Rangers in the first game of a doubleheader. 
Mike Devereaux hit a three­run homer and knocked in five runs for the Orioles, who saw 16 players go down on strike­outs, including Phil Bradley five times. 
The Rangers used a club­record 23 players, including six pitchers. 
Jeff Ballard, 16-7, the victory leader among American League left-banders, gave up three runs and seven hits over six in­nings to run his record to 5-l over his last six starts. Mark Williamson pitched the final three innings for his eighth save. 
Dodgers 8, Reds 2 
Fernando Valenzuela pitched a six-hitter and Eddie Murray and Willie Randolph each homered and got three hits 
Thursday night, leading the Los
Angeles Dodgers over the Cincinnati Reds. 
Valenzuela, 10-12, beat the Reds for the second time this season. He walked four and struck out five in his third complete game in 28 starts. 
Tom Browning, 15-11, had his eight-game winning streak stopped. He had given up just 13 earned runs in 68 2-3 in­nings during the streak, but the Dodgers tagged him for seven runs on 11 hits in three innings. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 


Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING Pickup & Delivery 277-7406 
PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard 3 blks. from NO campus 233-2342 $$$FOR YOUR BOOKS WE BUY AND SELL USED TEXTBOOKS !!!!!!!!!!!1!!!11 
Word Processing. Experience plus BA in English. 271 -0682 
CAROLYN: Perhaps some SWEATY SNUGGLEBUNNIES? 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 

LOST/FOUND 
Lost in or near Knot Hall: 3 personal checks. PLEASE call x4971 or send to 327. 
REWARD! 
LOST : Women's Glasses Possibly in Sorin or StEds. Call Julie x2914 
Found: Ladies watch in 01, found at 4:00PM. Call Brian at 1217 to claim. 

WANTED ] 
Can you play piano bar type music,jazz, blues or any1hing in the coffeehouse type style Alumni Sr. Club wants you .. leave name and number at 277-3653 or 239-7521. 
CAMPUS BANDS CAMPUS BANDS........ Alumni Sr. Club wants to keep you busy... leave name, number and name of band at 277­3653 or 239-7521 
THE GROOVE is looking 4 a bass player. Anyone interested? Dig. Call Leroy at x2932 or Lolin at x1354 
Sunchase Tours is currently recruiting Campus Representatives to promote our Collegiate Winter Ski Trips & Spring Break Ski & Beach Trips. Earn top commisions and free trips! Call1 -800 -321 -5911 for additional information. Campus organizations welcome! 
YOU NEED MONEY, 
WE NEED MONEY. Chicago based, innovative sportswear company seeks campus sales representative. Must be creative and enthusiastic. Please phone (312) 943-6105. This stuff sells itself 
WANTED Male or female student photographer, experienced in all phases of photography including darkroom, to work 12 hours/week in ultra-modern University photographic facility. Call Bruce Harlan or Jaime Cripe, 239-7350 
Singer Male or Female for a primarily accoustic band. Chuck x3302 
STARVIN MARVIN'S 
HELP WANTED cashiers,kitchen delivery 232-TIPS 

FOR RENT 
FURNISHED APT.-LIKE ROOM, AIR, KITCHEN, 5 MINS. NORTH CAMPUS. 272-0615. 
2 Bdrm HOME on NO ave.272­6306 
APT. UTILITIES PAID GOOD 
NEIGHBORHOOD MALE 
PREFERRED 288-0955 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219-291-7153. 
[______FOR SALE__] 
COLOR TV RENTALS 13-INCH, $50/SEM, $80NR; 19-INCH, $70/SEM, $120NR; 25-INCH, $90/SEM, $160NR CALL ANYTIME FOR FREE DELIVERY COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272­5959 
1980 Triumph TR7 CONVERTIBLE Looks and runs great. Must sell, plates expire soon! $2900 Call Dan 239-7666 
MEN'S UNIVEGA 12 SPD. MOUNTAIN BIKE. 2 MOS. OLD. 287-2440. OFFER. 
FOR SALE: 81 BROWN TOYOTA COROLLA SR5, 66,000 MILES, AM RADIO, NC. GOOD CONDITION. CALL 233-2588. 

TICKETS 
NEED 4 TIX FOR Ml STATEI PLEASE CALL #3803 
WILL TRADE 2 MICHIGAN,4 NAVY, 4 SMU TICKETS FOR USC OR PITT. PH. 419-4335334 EVENINGS. 
HAVE (2) GA TIX PITT & PENN ST. NEED (2) GA USC. BILL (617) 328-!)898. 
NEED :Z GA'S FOR MICHIGAN STATE GAME. WILL PAY CASH OR EXCHANGE 2 GA'S FOR 
WANTED-"10" PITT-NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SAT. 10/28189. PLEASE CALL PAT COLLECT AT (412) 372-3000. 
NEEDED: USC General Admission tickets!!! Will trade Mich St., Pitt, Navy, SMU, Purdue, and even MIAMI!!! Please call 283-3571 
WANTED: 2 GA TIX FOR MICH. STATE GAME. WILL TRADE 2 STUDENT TIX. CALL 233-8273 ASK FOR BRO. RICHARD HILLIS. 
NEED 4 GA & 2 STU TIX FOR 
PITT GAME. HAVE 1 USC GAME 
TIK TO SELL OR EXCHANGE. 
CALL SARAH 2930. 
Need 2 PITT GA's 
Please eall Kathy x2761 
WANTED: 1 or 2 Michigan State 
student or GA tickets. Call 
Michelle at 2677 
••• Need GA's for USC, NAVY, MIAMI. Will pp.y BIG BUCKS. call x2335 • Need 2 GA's for MICHIGAN Game. Call Dave at x1984 
Need USC and Miami Tix Chuck x3302 

NEED 4 Mich ST. GA's and 2 PITT stud tix. Debbie x2978 
Need any or all Stu. Tix. for new roomate. Please Help! 271 -5686 Geoff Stella 
After the Illinois game who wants to see USC? My sister that's who I need2USC. Please call Pete x3373 
WE DESPERATELY NEED TICKETS TO ANY HOME GAME. WILLING TO PAY BIG$$! PLEASE HELP! CALL X1338 ASK FOR 
JENNIFER OR EVELYN 

TIX! TIX! TIX! TIX! GA'S TO PUR PITT NAVY SMU AVAIL NEED TIX TO USC. CALL JM 714-792-8919 DAY, 714-792­5859 EVE, 714-675-8368 WKND. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ DESPERATELY NEEDED­MICHIGAN STATE TIX!III NEED 3 STUDENT TIX AND 4 GA'S. BIG MONEY BIG MONEY!!!! CALL JONPAUL AT X1603 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
CALIFORNIA LAWYER NEEDS 1-4 GENERAL ADM. TICKETS!!! PLEASE CALL AMBER x2529!1!1 
NEED 4 GAs AND 1 STU FOR MICH ST. WILL PAY$$$! x296€ 
I REALLY NEED 2 MICHIGAN STATE GA'S. CALL BETH AT X4852. 
NEED 2 GA'S AND 2 STUDENT TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN STATE GAME. WILL PAY$$$$. CALL BILL 271 -8483 
WANTED: 4 NO/USC Tickets. Pat Burns (317) 848 -1500 or (317) 758-4056 (nights) NAVY GAME. CALL TIM, 
FLANNER HALL EXT. 1143. 
NEED 2 USC & 2MICH ST. TIX PLEASE!! X1058 
NEED 2 TIX TO NO-MICH. ST. 
$$ CALL #1899 
NEED 1 GA FOR MICH. ST PLEASE!!!!!! MY LITTLE SIS IS COMING OUT+ PARENTS WILL KILL ME IF SHE OOES'NT GO. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS OR TRADE TIX! CALL MATT #3489 
NEED UP TO 6 USC TICKETS. MONEY IS NO PROBLEM. CALL JIM AT X1236. 
I WILL BUY YOUR SEASON STUDENT TICKETS. CALL NANCY AT 284-4270 
NEED: 2 USC GAs for Mom & Dad PLEASE CALL: Pete x1716 Tomx3258 
Thanks. 
I need two General Admission 
tickets for the MICHIGAN STATE 
game. Please call Mike at 1694. 
ROLLING STONES TICKETS lt! 4 tix for sale for the Sat., Sept. 9 concert at Alpine Valley, WI (45 minutes north of Chicago). Call Pat (x1159) or Kevin (x1 023). 

PERSONALS 
HiAg 
SITTER NEEDED, PART TIME, 
KNOLLWOOD AREA, PREFER 
YOU HAVE OWN 
TRANSPORTATION. CALL 277­
8380. 
ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W, KOKOMO, IN 46901. 
Campus Hard Rock band seeks 
bassist Experience a must. Call 
Glenn at X3064 or Vu at Xl809. 
CHAMPS RESTAURANT NOW HIRING WAITRESSES. UP TO $5 HR. + TIPS. APPLY AT 3421 W. SAMPLE AFTER 3:30 PM. 
MARY MARY YOU'RE ON OUR MINDS 
21 years ago Miss Mary E. Sande came screaming into the world. Saturday night, you just might catch her screaming at Senior Bar. Happy 21st BIRTHDAY, MARE WE LOVE YOU I!! 
THE GANG 
No patience, only hope... and vision. 
Critter's Quote of the week: Lafortune's PLAYBOY pinball machine --the closest you'll get to sex on this campus 
• • • • R.E.M. FANS • • • • 
I have 2 tix for the Alpine 
Valley show 9/30 for you! 
Parking is included 
Call Meg @2894 
Complete HairCut & Style $12 Men $18 Women You won1 be disappointed! Call Cosima's Shapes & Lines 277 -1875. Ask for Peggy 
My Husband & I are longing to adopt a child. We have gone through a home study and have been approved by a licensed agency. If you should know of anyone who is considering releasing a child for adoption please call Marie or Rick collect (219) 259-0160 
CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable atmosphere, daily & weekly specials, pool table, English darts, and great company. 234-3541 
How're you going to do it? 
...when you need color? 

j 

-----~ 
The Observer Friday, September 8, 1989
page 12 

Thomas' return may help Paterno forget about 1988 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Associate Sports Editor 
Penn State, synonymous with 

Eastern college football for the 
last 30 years, picked the most 
inopportune time to run into a 
rare slump. 
While the Nittany Lions, long 

on injury and short on experi­
ence, were losing a total of 10 
games the past two years, tra­
ditional Penn State victims 
Syracuse and West Virginia 
each enjoyed an undefeated 
season. 
The ultimate insult came last 

year. With Heisman Trophy 
candidate Blair Thomas out for 
the season with a knee injury 
and true freshman Tony Sacca 
starting at quarterback, the 
Lions suffered their first losing 
season since 1938. 
"I hurt my staff last year," said Paterno, whose team opens the 1989 season Saturday by hosting Virginia. "Too many times I left thinking maybe I'd made myself clear on things, I thought understood what they were telling me. You stick your two cents in and don't follow up, and you get people uneasy and confused to what your intentions are." 
But this season Paterno 

might finally have the tools to 
hammer out the problems 
hovering over Happy Valley. 
Thomas, who rushed for 
1,414 yards in 1987, chose to 
return for a fifth year of eligi­
bility and already is a Heisman 
Trophy favorite. The Lions re­
turn 14 players who started in 
last year's season-ending 21-3 
loss to Notre Dame. The pre­
season national championship 
favorite of The Boston Globe, 
Penn State is ranked 12th in the 
latest Associated Press poll. 
And Paterno is concentrating 
more on his relationship with 
his assistants. 
"This year I've spent as much 
time as I've ever spent with the 
staff," said the four-time Coach 
of the Year. "I've spent more 
time on the field trying to be in­
volved in coaching of small 
things. It's a question of being more closely involved with them, looking at practice films, critiquing things with them." 
With Thomas back in uni­form, further changes have been made in the Nittany Lion 
Join The Observer 
backfield. Junior Gary Brown, last season's leading rusher with 689 yards, has been moved to strong safety, while sopho­more John Gerak will play full­back. 
Tom Bill, a fifth-year senior, has won the starting quarter­back job over Sacca (54-of-146 of 821 yards, five interceptions, four touchdowns last year). 

College Football 
"We'll play both (Bill and Sacca)," said Paterno, who has a 212-54-2 record in 23 years at Penn State. "Both of them should play. Tommy's been around the offense a little longer and has a little edge on Tony." 
Penn State hosts Alabama and West Virginia later this season and travels to Texas, Syracuse and Pitt. The Nittany Lions have lost to both the Orangemen and Panthers each of the last two years. 
But Paterno still is worried about Saturday's opener. He is worried about his team being a little tired following pre-season practices and sees potential in the Cavaliers despite last week's Kickoff Classic debacle. 
"Notre Dame can make any­body look bad," said Paterno, concerning Virginia's 36-13 loss to the nation's top-ranked team. "They had a lackluster first half, but the second half better indicated the type of team Virginia has." 
Paterno's team will have his­tory on its side this season. Prior to 1988, Penn State's last mediocre season came during a 6-5 1984 campaign. The Lions went 23-1 with a national championship the following two seasons. 



CJ's Pub 

417 N. Michigan St. HOME of the SUPERPUBS Mon. Night Special (6p.m.-1 Op.m.) $1.00 off any Burger {with this ad) 
**LIVE Entertainment every Wed-Fri-Sat** 
RICKY JOE SERVING Lunch Daily 11 a.m. 
And Paterno knows a healthy Thomas can make a big differ­ence. 
"He is a great example for the young backs who thought they knew what 100 percent was," said Paterno. After watching Blair, they under­stand 100 percent is something else." 
EXTRA POINTS: One Southern quarterback dropped out of the Heisman race, while another threw his hat in the ring last Saturday. Southern Mississippi's Brett Favre (pronounced FAR-v) led the Golden Eagles to a 30-26 upset of then-No. 6 Florida State, while Tommy Hodson and LSU fell to Texas A&M. The Aggies iced their win by intercepting a Hodson pass and returning it for a touchdown. Favre, a darkhorse candidate if there ever was one, has a chance to impress voters in games against Auburn, Alabama and Texas A&M... Florida State, 0­1, hosts Clemson and travels to 
LSU  in its  next  two  games...  
Last  season,  the  Pac-10  
Conference  fea.,ued  some  of  

the nation's best football but only received three bowl invita­tions (Arizona, 7-4, stayed home for the holidays). 
Following pre-season confer­ence favorite USC's 14-13 Monday night loss to Illinois, UCLA has to beat Tennessee, a middle-of-the-pack Southeastern Conference squad, in order to preserve some sort of reputation for the Pac-10 ... With all the recent scandals in the Southwest Conference, guess which con­ference school had the best re­cruiting season last spring? Baylor, from beautiful Waco, Tex. The Bears face Oklahoma, a 73-3 winner over New Mexico State last weekend, in its sea­son-opener Saturday. 
.. 
OFFICE OF 

(tMPUSMINISTRY 

Eucharistic Ministry workshops are being held today in Stepan Center, at 2:30p.m. The workshop will take place again on Tuesday, September 12 in Stepan Center at 1O:OOp.m. All who were commissioned last fall, or are entering this ministry for the first time, are required to attend one of these workshops. 
CARPET REMttAttT SALE 10 °/o OFF OVER 600 REMtlfltiTS 

Carpet & Tile,...,..D_e~....;,;,.... 
Mon. thru Sat. 
10:00 to 5:30 
402 South Ironwood Mishawaka, Ind. Ph. 259-5630 
TONIGHT SATURDAY 
7:00 ' 9:30 7:00 ' 9:30 

Friday, September 8, 1989 The Observer page 13 
Women's soccer travels to Wisconsin 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team opens its season in Rensselaer, Indiana against St. Joseph's College on Tuesday, Sept. 5 at 4:00 p.m. The team then travels to the Badger State to take on Wisconsin­Milwaukee on Saturday, Sept. 8 at 5:00 p.m. and then faces third-ranked Wisconsin­Madison on Saturday, Sept. 9 at 2:00 p.m. The Irish will re­turn home to the friendly con­fines of Edward "Moose" Krause Stadium to face Minnesota on Wednesday, Sept. 13 at 5:00 p.m. in the home opener. 
K.T. Sullivan (Northport, N.Y.) and Joy Sisolak (Basking Ridge, N.J.) will lead the Irish this year as co-captains. This year's team features 12 veter­ans, including Susie Zilvitis (Sudbury, Mass.) the leading scorer (14 goals, seven assists, 35 points) in 1988. The team will also rely heavily on fresh­men including starting keeper Michelle Lodyga (Mission Viejo, Calif.). 
In only their second varsity season the team will have the advantage of playing 12 of their 20 scheduled games at home where they were unde­feated (9-0-0) last year. 
"Our potential is unlimited," says head coach Dennis Grace. "We can get better quicker. We are young, but we have more depth than last year, and ev­eryone is working for each other. This is our second var­sity season, and we improved greatly throughout last season and during the winter. Our tra­ditions aren't already built, we're building them now." 




MARIGOLD MARKET 
• 







f~~~ 
~~~~~ &otArrnet 
QIID£urop£aV\ Meats 
J: Cheeses ~: ·~ ·o
T c
o 



~'ftlil~te PtC:t1ics 
Arneria1n WI·nes t 
fmf\?rte~ Beer~ ·Ple~.se ~II ah~ for ?Pet.i~ Io~ers +requests.· 6R.APE~{LEV'ELNJD (219) 272·!922_ 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
A Family Tennis Clinic will be held by the NO varsity tennis programs to celebrate the Year of the Family. The clinic is open to staff and students of Notre Dame and their families, Saturday, Sept. 9, from 1-3 p.m. at the Courtney Courts (Eck Tennis Pavilion if rain). The clinic is free of charge and there will be instruction, competition and games. ­
The Observer 
The Gymnastics Club will hold an in­formational meeting at 5 p.m. Monday, Sept. 11, in Angela Athletic Facility. For more in­formation, call x2701. -The Observer 
TaeKwonDo Club will have an orienta­tion meeting from 8 to 9:30 p.m. Tuesday, Sept. 12, at Joyce ACC fencing gym. Come prepared to work out. For more information, call x 19 3 8. -The Observer 
Tee times for Saturday's campus-wide golf tourney are available at the pro shop. Participants should check times in person, not by phone. -The Observer 
A Tennis Mixer, held by the Irish var­sity tennis teams, will be held Friday, Sept. 8, from 6-8 p.m. Students can sign up as indi­viduals and will be paired with a varsity ten­nis player for the competition. All students are invited. Prizes and refreshments are available. Sign up at NVA before the event. ­The Observer 
Men's Volleyball Club will have tryouts at 1 p.m. Sunday in the Joyce ACC pit. Ca:ll x2333 or x2093 for more information. -The Observer 
Indoor and outdoor track team will hold a mandatory meeting at 4 p.m. Tuesday, Sept. 12, at Loftus. -The Observer . 
Non-varsity athletics will sponsor a Shorin-Ryu karate demonstration at 1 p.m. Saturday, Sept. 9, in room 300 of Rockne Memorial. The demonstration will be exam­ples of the techniques to be used in classes which begin Monday, Sept. 11. For more in­formation, call 239-6100. -The Observer 
year starter, has been mentioned on several pre­



Line 
season all-America lists. continued from page 16 It was Grunhard who took 
offense last year when many
right end of the line, provide observers, including Holtz, the senior leadership. complained that the young line Grunhard, the unit's only third-could not compete with 

INTERVARSITY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP'S 
New Student Picnic 
Mes~ a~ ~lhe Main (Post Office) Circ~e ~~~ ~ :30 PM on S&t~IIJircJiay, Sep~. 9 
Call Jim at 271-0456, Sean at x-1997 

Michigan's stalwart defensive line in the season-opener. 
The unit ended up paving the way for a 234-yard Notre Dame rushing attack in that 19-17 Irish win. 
"We're going to surprise some people," Grunhard said at the time. "When we play together , we have the potential to be one of the best offensive lines in the country." 
After one national championship season of playing together, the Notre Dame offensive line could well be on its way to reaching that potential. 
Just take Ricky Watters' word for it. 
WE'D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITIITION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
THE OONSTITIITION 
·n,e w.:mls we live by 


Need to Get Away? 



TAKE THE WINDY CITY SHUTTLE 
Spend the Day in Chicago -Cost is only 

$1o.oojCIIJCAGO] 
Come to the Information Desk, 1st. Floor LaFortune, for details 
~----------~------------------------------------------------------~~---------------------~-----­
page 14 
The Observer 

Agassi outlasts Connors at Open 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Andre Agassi. winning a five-set match for the first time, rallied to eliminate crowd favorite Jimmy Connors at the U.S. Open on Thursday. 
The 19-year-old Agassi re­peated his 1988 quarterfinal victory over the 37-year-old Connors, but in entirely differ­ent style. Last year, he swept three sets from the five-time Open champion. This time, Agassi had to show the deter­mination and staying power he has not displayed in his four years on tour. 
With the 20,839 fans firmly against him, even applauding his double faults, Agassi won 6­1, 4-6, 0-6, 6-3. 6-4. He had Connors under control at the start and the veteran com­·"" plained of nausea and dizziness early in the second set. At one 
But then Connors began making virtually every shot. No longer was he shuffiing slowly around the court between points, looking like a misfit against the energetic Agassi. 
Seeded just 13th after 15 years among the favorites here, Connors gave further indication that at an age when most tennis players are coaching their kids, Connors can compete with youngsters nearly half his age. 
And it offered proof that Connors' 6-2, 6-3, 6-1 rout of No. 3 Stefan Edberg in the fourth round was no fluke. 
But Agassi, not surprisingly, had more stamina. He broke Connors in the fourth game of the fourth set and that turned the match around. 
By the final set, Connors was being overpowered by the sixth seed, 0-5 in previous five-set­ters. Agassi took a 5-2 lead in Connors pumping his arms, Agassi blew one match point before Connors' backhand off a drop shot went long. 
That was the conclusion of 3 hours and 17 minutes of center court drama and perhaps the end of Connors' open career. He waved to the crowd once more as he left the stadium to yet another standing ovation. 
For Agassi, it could have been an embarrassing finish to a tournament that began so strongly. Considered the leader of the wave of rising stars in American tennis, Agassi hadn't lost a set in this tournament before facing Connors. 
By the beginning of the fourth set Thursday, Agassi had lost his touch, his concentration and, it appeared at times, his interest. 
The third set was so lopsided 
Friday, September 8, 1989 


point, Connors turned to his the set, was broken by Connors, that Agassi even was attempt­wife, Patti, seated at courtside, who then held to make it 5-4. ing lobs from the baseline that and said "I don't think I can With the fans standing and Connors continually put away make it." shouting encouragement and with ease from midcourt. 
Volley Join The Observer 
continued from page 16 
well as Gonzaga, Portland and 
Idaho, will give the Irish their 
STEAKS

first chance to work out the 
100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA

PRIME RIBpreseason kinks. 
Featwing Friday night seafood buffet
Lambert was hoping the 

SEAFOOD 
and Sunday brunch 
tournament would give the 
219-259-9925

Irish a chance to ease into the season, which may pit them against more than 20 region­ally-and nationally-ranked teams, but the other partici­

A FULL St:RVICE EQUESTRIAN FACIUTY 
pants in the Invitational may have other ideas. 
"Montana and Gonzaga have their best teams ever," Lambert said. "I think we have a chance to win this thing but you just 
FOUR FLAGS FARM 
can't tell until they get out 
'LE.d and :Buak(a1.t
there and start playing. "We'll go out there to win and 
THE KERNERS 
PHONE

the worst that can happen is 
RED BUD TRAIL NORTH 616-471-5711
BUCHANAN, Ml 49107

that we'll find out where we are 
as a team." 


Did your parents buy you a 

BUY CLASSIFIEDS 

WE DELIVER 
1 Block East of Eddy on South Bend Avenue 232 -TIPS OPEN Tues.-Sun. at 3 p.m. 
Saveonthis attractive ~case whenyoubuyouryogurt. 
VALUE CHECK COUPON BOOKLET? 
Stop by the Information Desk in LaFortune between 12 noon --9:00 pm to pick up your book. 
ASK FOR FREE STUDENT DISC. CARD 


~F~ri~d~ay~·~S~e~p~t~em~b~er__B,~1_9_8_9__________________________________T_h_e_O_b_s_e_N_e_r______________________________________________ P~~~~~ 
CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Indian weights 58 Make amends 
Friday 1 Certain sun spot 31 Camed 61 Craw's cousin 7 p.m.: Film, "Dangerous Liasons," Annenberg Auditorium. 7 Acted as an 34 Image Comb. 62 Uta-Aztecan ­9:30p.m.: Film, "Dangerous Liasons," Annenberg Auditorium. agent form language 
35 Castles country? 

15 Subtly sarcastic 65 Mesh, as gears 
37 Grain beard 

S d 16 O'Hare events 67 Guard 
39 lmag1nary

atur ay 17 Most calamitOUS 68 Union units 7 p.m.: Film, "Dangerous Liasons," Annenberg Auditorium. 18 __ acid used 42 Part of a solid, in 
69 Poisonous salt 
geometry 70 Most peeved 
9:30p.m.: Film, "Dangerous Liasons," Annenberg Auditorium. for synth~tic 
43 Queued up 44 Untrue resins 

19 Comb. form with Sunday deca or hexa 45 Venus or Juno DOWN 3 p.m.: Faculty Recital, Jeffrey Jacob, pianist. Little Theatre, 20 R1gatoni. e.g. 46 Jellied garnish 
1 Move aboutSaint Mary's College. 22 Ancient 48 Red dye restlessly
23 D1r. or suffix 52 Yugoslav native 
2 Melodious 
24 Rhone feeder 54 Beaching vessel 
3 Dogwood that 
25 Where Beauvais 55 Highlands uncle 
sounds apt for MENUS Ithaca
is 56 Cockpit stat. 
4 Amiens article 5 Speech problem Notre Dame Saint Mary's ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE s Recorded proceedings
Beef Kabob Batter Fried Fish 7 Clique 
Waffles Beef Pot Pie aThoroughgoing
Cheese Stuffed Pepper Cheese & Veggie Strata Tangy Grilled Chicken Deli Bar 9---Magnon "'=+"--+"'+---~..,...,. 1oJ. Broz 
-=+:=+:=~t=-+7-t:::-i 11 Rounded 

29 Italian wine 40 Arrow poison 59 Headland molding center 
41 Old trumpets 60 Within: Comb. 7::+.:+.:::-E-1 12 Most lecherous 30 The backbone, 

Wish your friends a happy 
421pso­
medically 62 AARP'sa';!!nt®[ll. 13 Samuel's form 

44 Pliable

B-=+::::+::,..fl!l~l!l,:: teacher 32 Nobleman

birthday with Observer 
paymaster33 Muslim sect 47 Galaxy memberlliiillililt:-+:'-t:-'-t-=+::=-t 14 G . I. hero's 

63"Make­

award member 49 Composed Mine," 1954 36 The birds, to so Pictures

jMt advertising. )Mt 
-:-+=--+=~ 21 French song
Brutus 

composer 51 Most up-to-date
38 Lake near Milano 64"-Ciear 
-:-:+::-+=~ 26 In-(in place) 53 Thrash Day," 1965 song ---L...;...&..;.;..L.-'-' 27 Dutch cheese supports 57 Leg part 66 Needlefish 
~ Call 239-6900 C 39 Topmast 








SCUMMt£1( C.9LMP S.9L'ICU1('D.9L9' 
12:00-5:00 Around St. Joe's Lake 
Tie-dying...arts and crafts.••canoeing...smores... campus bands.•. scavenger hunt...frisbee contests.. sailing... Basically all the stuff you loved as a kid and miss as the mature adult you are now! 
COMICS 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
ooao\-\, \\-\~1 R!::iTI"EN Cf...L'I\N! I 11to..TE 111M! I 1-1~\E HIM.' 
liES 111E c:Nt. W"O 01~1 DO 1\-\t. r>.SSIG~to\HH.' liES lHE OOE W\b Wfl.S Tf>.L¥.1~ IN 
1 liE'S 1\.lt: ON£ W"~ 
I Wfl.~'\ ().)I~G f>.N'(n\ING WR:ll'lG, Bl..l\ I'M Tl\E o~t_ 
W\-10 Q)T IN IWJ&LE -' 1 S\lR£ 1-\Clf'£ <N..'IIN ffilS TERRIBlE AfPJT ffi\5.1 
BILL WATTERSON 
BILL WATTERSON 
GARY LARSON
THE FAR SIDE 


"Now wait a minute .... He said two jerks meant 'more slack' and three meant 'come up' ... but he never said nothin' about one long, steady pull." 




Sports 
Friday, September 8, 1989
page 16 

Volleyball team looks for experience'at Gonzaga Invite 
By MOLLY MAHONEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The 1988 Notre Dame volley­ball team left more than one cramped hand in the wake of its most successful season ever. 
All season it kept statisticians bent over their record books, compiling the prolific statistics and impressive achievements attained by the Irish as they finished last year ranked 15th by the NCAA and earned their first NCAA bid, despite facing the program's toughest sched­ule ever. 
But the Irish prepare to open their 1989 season in Spokane, Wash., at the Gonzaga Invitational this weekend with­out five of six starters who contributed to last year's suc­cess. Irish head coach Art Lambert is urging his squad to focus more on regrouping for this season's challenging schedule than on taking com­fort in the pleasant memories of last season. 
"We don't have the team we had last year," Lambert said. "We lost some great players who will take quite a chunk out of the team, and we will have to overcome those losses to be a good team. 
"But I tell the team that the key word is can. If they recover from losses and believe they can do it, I think we'll be ready to face a schedule that may be even tougher than last year." 
Lambert has had the monu­mental task of replacing grad­uates Mary Kay Waller, Maureen Shea, Zanette Bennett and Whitney Shewman, as well as standout freshman setter Julie Bremner, who was se­lected to play on the United States National team. 
He will depend on senior cap­tain Kathy Cunningham, one of the team's few seasoned play­ers, to compensate for the team's youth and inexperience. 
Cunningham will try to bounce back from a series of injuries ranging from a dislo­cated right shoulder to a pulled intercostal muscle, while lend­ing her volleyball savvy to a rather green group of fresh­man joining the collegiate ranks. 
"We definitely have our work cut out for us," Cunningham said. "It's going to take a lot of hard work to get to the level we were at last year, but we've displayed a great deal of unity during preseason drills and that's a promising sign." 
Cunningham will get some help from fellow senior Taryn Collins, Notre Dame's all-time assist leader and junior Amy White, who will both be vying for the setting spot vacated by Bremner. 
Juniors Tracey Shelton and Colleen Wagner will assume outside hitting duty this fall and sophomores Christine Choquette and Jennifer Slosar will contribute to Notre Dame's offensive attack while also adding their defensive blocking skills to the team's depleted front line. 
The Irish will depend on a strong crew of freshman­Alicia Turner, Jessica Fiebelkorn, Marilyn Cragin, Jeanette Jacot and Cynthia May-to adjust quickly to vol­
leyball at the collegiate level. 
It will be trial by fire for the ·freshmen as Lambert plans to utilize their skills immediately. 
"We held three-a-days all during preseason because our younger players need to get as much experience as possible before getting into game situa­tions," Lambert said. "These girls are only going to get bet­ter as they get more game ex­perience under their belt. 
"We've made great progress already and I know if I were our opponents, I wouldn't want to face our team at the end of the season." 
The Gonzaga Invitational, which features Notre Dame's first opponent, Montana, as 
see VOLLEY I page 14 

Offensive line no longer has to defend its inexperience 
Leading the way up front 

BY STEVE MEGARGEE 

Associate Sports Editor 
Hicky Watters knew where the credit was due after last week's 36-13 Kickoff Classic triumph. 
"I felt like every time I got the ball, I was in the secondary," the junior tailback said after his 80-yard rushing effort last Thursday against Virginia. "This line is awesome. Then the second line came in, and there wasn't even a dropoff. 
"I'd be glad to compare our line with any in the nation." The opposition couldn't argue against that. 
"They did overpower us," said Virginia coach George Welsh. "I An experienced Notre Dame offensive line showed its muscle in last have no explanation for that." Thursday's Kickoff Classic against Virginia, as the Irish scored 
Before the season, The Sporting News ranked the Irish Heck, a first-round National guard, Gene McGuire at center "Mike Brennan has developed Falcons and the Washington offensive line as the fourth best Football League draft choice by and Joe Allen and Winston strictly because of his work Redskins' Russ Grimm and in the nation, saying, "This the Seattle Seahawks, has left Sandri at tackle. habits and intensity," said Mark May. could be Coach Lou Holtz's the line that surprised everyone "We have more confidence Holtz. "When I first came here, "He teaches you the way the finest line ever." but its own members last year. than last year, definitely," said I didn't think he was a good pros play and expects an awful 
What a difference a year of The overachieving fifth-year Heldt, a 6-4, 265-pound junior enough athlete, or quick lot from you," said Heldt. "He's experience has made for the senior Mike Brennan replaces from Tampa, Fla. "We know enough. He worked hard and one of the old coaches who Notre Dame offensive line. him. what the other person is became a solid football player." expects you to beat 'em in the Heading into last season's Guards Tim Grunhard and thinking, and we work better as Offensive line coach Joe mouth and knock 'em in the season-opening game with Tim Ryan, center Mike Heldt a unit." Moore has a way of producing dirt." Michigan, the inexperienced line and tackle Dean Brown all are The only missing link from solid players on the line. A Brown and Grunhard, who couldn't buy a compliment. returning starters. Even the last year's unit, the 6-5, 260-former assistant at Pitt, both weigh over 290 pounds Now everyone is singing their second-string remains mostly pound Brennan has earned rave Moore's pupils include Jimbo and line up side-by-side on the praises. intact, with Tom Gorman and review from coaches for his Covert of the Chicago Bears, 
Only graduated tackle Andy Mirko Jurkovic filling in at work ethic. Bill Fralic of the Atlanta see LINE I page 13 

Despite the rain, these Little Leaguers shine 
When it rains, it pours. 

The Morristown, N.J. National Little League All­Stars blazed their way through the New Jersey Districts and Sectionals, losing only one game of the double-elimination brackets and watching pitcher 
E.J. Sebelle strike out all 18 batters he faced in one game of the preliminaries to the state tournament. 
Traditional powers among the 12-year olds, Morristown went to the four-team state tournament in Middletown. The winner of the double-elimination contest would advance to the East Regional, which in turn feeds the Grandbaby of them all, Williamsport, Pa., and the Little League World Series. 
In the first game, Morristown, coached by Sam Champi and managed _by Tony Cattano, faced Cherry Hill East. Sebelle was on the mound against CHE's star hurler, Chris Matarese. It was an amaz­ing pitchers' duel. Sebelle, who throws no-hitters as a matter of course, pitched a one-hitter, but was overshadowed by Matarese, who had a perfect game before walking Michael Hennessey in th sixth and fi­nal inning. 
CHE scored on an error and two passed balls to take the opener 1-0. 
Morristown was down, but not out, and came back with a vengeance. After beating Manalapan 7-1 behind Hennessey's five-hitter, and defeating Newark Rick Cerone 7-3, Morristown prepared to face Cherry Hill again, needing two straight wins to advance. 
Theresa Kelly 
Sports Editor 

The matchup was scheduled for a Friday night. It rained. It was rescheduled for Saturday afternoon. It rained again. Time was getting short as· the Regionals were set to begin Monday in Williamsport. Little Leaguers can't play doubleheaders, and they can't start after 8 p.m. 
New Jersey Little League got permission from Williamsport to play Sunday and Monday, if neces­sary, because the winners didn't actually have to be at the Regionals until Wednesday. 
The game was set for Sunday at 1 p.m. Of course, it rained. A quick downpour soaked the field. When it stopped, the Morristown fans stepped in. About twenty men, fathers, coaches, and former team members, many of whom made the hour's drive just to help out, chipped in with the groundskeepers to drain the field, using buckets and fire department pumping equipment. The Cherry Hill contingent sat in the stands and watched. 
At 4 p.m., the infield was playable, the outfield was still wet. Another few hours, the grounds­keepers said, and the field would be ready. 
But at 5 p.m., another dark cloud appeared, this time in the person of Joseph Graziano, head of New Jersey Little League. He got the coaches together and, with the players warming up in the parking lot and the Morristown fans still working on the field, announced that the field was unplayable and Cherry 
see LEAGUE/ page 11 







