VOL. XXII, NO. 112 

Associated Press 
HAVANA-Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev told the Cuban legislature Tuesday that Soviet-style reforms were not a universal remedy for all com­munist countries. 
In a 53-minute speech before the Cuban National Assembly, Gorbachev also proposed that a "zone of peace" be estab­lished in Latin America and the Caribbean and renounced any Soviet intention of establishing naval, air or missile bases in the region. 
Gorbachev also reaffirmed that the Soviet Union will con­tinue supplying weaponry to 

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Daley wins in landslide 
Ends brief era of black rule in Windy City 
Associated Press by far the biggest city in the first black mayor, to victory in nation to replace a black mayor 1983 and 1987. 
CHICAGO-Richard M. with a white. · The election was ordered by Daley won election Tuesday to 
the courts to fill the two yearsthe mayor's office his father remaining in the second term held for 21 years, dashing chief of Washington, who died of a rival Timothy Evans' hope of heart attack in November 1987. extending the brief era of black Daley, 46, is a three-term leadership at City Hall. Cook County state's attorney.
With 2,241 of 2,911 precincts Evans, 45, is a Democratic reporting, or 77 percent, unof­South Side alderman who ficial results gave Daley skipped the primary to run on 511,791 votes, or 64 percent, to the Harold Washington Party262,610 votes, or 33 percent for ticket. Vrdolyak, 51, is a former Evans. Republican Edward Democratic alderman who has Vrdolyak had 30,754 votes, or 4 not won elected office since his percent. party switch in 1987. 
Daley benefitted from a Analysts agreed that turnout strong turnout in the Richard Daley among black and white voters predominantly white South­would be the critical factor. west and Northwest Side The victory also kept intact Whites make up about 48 per­wards. Turnout in Evans' black a Democratic tradition in the cent of the voting population, strongholds on the South and nation's third-largest city blacks about 42 percent and West Sides, meanwhile, lagged dating back to 1931-including· Hispanics about 7 percent. as many as 10 percentage six straight terms captured by But the black communitypoints behind, according to a the late Richard J. Daley, last that united· around Washington city elections official who of the big-city political bosses. appeared bitterly divided this declined to be identified. year between Sawyer and 
Black turnout in recent elec­Tom Leach, spokesman for Evans, who refused to endorse tions has trailed white turnout the Chicago Board of Election each other. by 2 to 5 percentage points, and Commissioners, said the 
Evans' campaign strategists board's latest estimate was In the February primary, pegged his chances for an upset that 68 percent of the city's 1.56 Daley beat Sawyer by more victory on preventing that gap million registered voters than 100,000 votes, in large part from widening. turned out. That would be the because many black Evans 
The victory by Daley, who third-highest turnout for a supporters stayed away from 
defeated Mayor Eugene Chicago municipal election, the polls. 
Sawyer in February's Demo­below the numbers that carried Tuesday was Daley's second 
cratic primary, makes Chicago Harold Washington, the city's bid for the mayoralty.
Nicaragua's leftist govern­ment as long as the United • States continues to arm other 
Speed IS key with debt relief
Central American countries. 
The issue remains a major sore 
point in relations between Associated Press World Bank, said they recog­work with the IMF to speed im­
Washington and Moscow. nized the need for urgency in plementation of the new debt In his speech, the Soviet WASHINGTON-The Bush addressing the debt crisis. relief program. 
leader spent considerable time administration's Third World Conable said that any delay Earlier, the top policy board 
justifying the need for the debt initiative won key en­"could be devastating in view of the IMF issued a com­
reforms he has introduced in dorsements Tuesday from the of the expectancies which have munique endorsing the general 
his own country. two international agencies ex­been created" about the principles embodied in the debt "Today only those can count pected to implement the strat­prospect for a reduction in the program unveiled by Treasury on success who are marching egy. $1.3 trillion level of Third World Secretary Nicholas Brady. in step with the times, who are Both Michel Camdessus, the debt. The approval was seen as cri­
drawing the necessary conclu­managing director of the 151-In a speech to the final ses­tical since the administration 
sions from the changes result­nation International Monetary sion of the spring meetings of is counting ·on most of the 
ing from the fact that the world Fund, and Barber Conable, the IMF and the World Bank, financing for the debt relief president of the other global Conable said that the bank had scheme to come from the two see CUBA I page 4 lending organization, the created a joint task force to lending agencies. 
Sheen stresses social awareness, heroes 
By NATHAN FITZGERALD 
News Staff 

Last night, Martin Sheen spoke to a full house about his own heroes and the im­port~nce of social aware­ness in the United States, in the Cushing Auditorium, Tuesday. 
Sheen opened with a mo­ment of silence in remembrance of the assas­sination of the Rev. Martin Luther King,, Jr., 21 years ago. 
Sheen offered his defini­The Observer I E.G. Bailey tion of a hero, saying "to me a hero is that person who ex­
Actor Martin Sheen, center, junior Tony Rice, left, and freshman Raghib Ismail emerge from the Morris tends themselves for the 
Inn Tuesday following a dinner there. Sheen invited Rice and Ismail to dinner prior to his speaking purpose of nurturing their 
engagement on campus Tuesday night. , own or another person's spiritual growth." 
The personal heroes he noted ranged from Brian Wilson to Mother Theresa. Wilson, a Vietnam veteran, lost both legs in 1987 trying to stop a train that was car­rying American weapons that would allegedly contrib­ute to the deaths of 72,000 El Salvadorans and 29,000 Nicaraguans. 
Sheen acknowledged that most heroes do not come from Park Avenue, Wall Street or Malibu. 
He asked the audience to imagine a world without heroes, concluding that "alas, it's not possible, 
see SHEEN I page 4 
---~---_, ________ 
-~~-~---------------------­
----~-·-~~-~----·--~---------· 
Wednesday, April 5, 1989
page 2 The Observer 
WORLD BRIEFS 
U.S. efforts on Central American peace are welcome after the "lip service" of the Reagan years, and should be an example for the Cubans and Soviets, Costa Rican President Oscar Arias said Tuesday. Arias, who met separately with President Bush and Vice President Quayle, endorsed the administration's plan for non-lethal aid to the Nicaraguan Contra rebels, a plan developed with bipartisan support in Congress. 
Hundreds of Palestinian prisoners will be released Wednesday and restrictions will be eased in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip for the Moslem holy month of Ramadan, Israeli officials said. In the occupied lands, 10 Palestinians were reported wounded Tuesday in clashes between soldiers and stone­throwing Palestinians. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
The Alaska pipeline will remain open, said the Bush administration Tuesday, but questions were raised as to whether the Federal government has legal authority to prevent its closure. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the authority issue was "an open question." However, he said, "I don't honestly believe anyone wants to close the pipeline." 
INDIANA BRIEFS 
Indiana lags behind the national average in return of Federal dollars to the state. The Indiana Business Research Center at IU found that in 1987 Indiana received $4.7 billion, or 1.73 percent of the $847 billion the Federal government doled out to the states. Had Indiana received a share proportional to its population, it would have received nearly $19 billion. 
A proposed 1 0-cent deposit on all beverage containers in Indiana was defeated Tuesday by a 70-26 vote in the Indiana House. The House also approved a bill to make it a crime to harrass hunters and fishermen while they are trying to take game animals. 
The prison release program in Indiana was abolished by Gov. Evan Bayh Tuesday, and he isrestricting other programs that allow inmates to work in the community. The changes came in response to controversy surrounding furloughed inmate Alan Matheney, who was charged with murder and burglary in the March 4 beating death of his ex-wife, Lisa Marie Bianco of Mis­hawaka. 
CAMPUS BRIEFS 
The Notre Dame Grounds Department will be spraying American elm trees on campus during the next one to two weeks. This spray program is part of an extensive elm preservation program that is carried out annually to protect the approximately 150 elms that remain on campus. The trees are being sprayed with the insecticide Methoxychlor to control the elm bark beetle, which spreads Dutch elm disease. Methoxychlor is effective for controlling this pest and is proven very safe for people and the environment. Anyone wishing further information should contact the Grounds Department, or the office of Risk Management and Safety. 
WEATHER 
It's not 'Paris in April' 
Mostly cloudy and cool today with a chance of light rain. Highs in the middle 40s. Partial clearing and cool tonight. Lows from 30 to 35. Partly cloudy Thursday. Highs in the middle 40s. 
ALMANAC MARKET UPDATE 
On April 5: e In 1792: President Wash­ington cast his first veto, rejecting a 
Dow Jones 
congressional measure for apportion­Industrial Average ing representatives among the states. 
-6.60.. 
e In 1887: Teacher Anne Sulli­Closed at 2298.20 van achieved a major breakthrough with her blind and deaf pupil, Helen Keller, by conveying to her the 
Currency exchange
meaning of the word "water" in the Manual alphabet. Mark •.0079 to 1.8684 DM I$ e In 1951: Julius and Ethel 
Yen f' 0.93 to 130.85 ¥I $
Rosenberg were sentenced to death fol­lowing their conviction on charges of being atomic spies for the Soviet 
Precious Metals
Union. e Ten years ago: President Gold fr$.20 to $390.90 I oz. 
Carter announced in a nationally broadcast address he would gradually Silver +2.3¢ to $5.856 I oz. lift price controls on domestic crude oil 
and would ask Congress for a "windfall profits tax" on oil producers. 
Information compiled from Observer wires and Observer staff reports. 

Whatever you do, don't name your kid John 
"Hey John!" 
How many times have you heard this yelled out while you were walking down the quad? If you have heard it, you certainly have seen the mass confusion that breaks out as every single John turns around and searches frantically to see if they actually KNOW the persm1 scream­ing their name. 
I am well aware of this problem because I am a member of that elite group of "Johns." Long have I suffered through the pain of having the same name as about 300 billion other men, and I feel that now is the time someone speaks out for the rights of Johns everywhere. 
To begin with, there are those people who yell out one of my fellow Johns' names in public without any remorse for the chaos they cause. In addition, many of these people don't enun­ciate, so it actually sounds like they are saying "Hey --on!" Thus, every Don, Ron, Juan, and even Sean is forced to look like an idiot and search the crowd for a familiar face. Then, you are greeted by the impatient "I want THAT John, not YOU!" look. 
But this is just the tip of the iceberg. Here is a little quiz. Fill in the blank with the correct choice: 
(a) John. (b) John. (c) Harold. (d) None of these. 
1. 
"I have to go to the :" 

2. 
A brothel caters to s. 

3. 
"hy B. Goode" 

4. 
"G'night -soy" The answer to all of these is, of course, is (c) Harold. 


But seriously, how many other names are used to replace "lavatory"? None. Only Johns are subjected to this and, frankly, we're as mad as heck (Johns don't swear) and we're not going to take it any more. 
In addition, every single rock 'n roll song to come out in the last thirty years has used the name Johnny. Why can't they use another name? I think Men at Work would have had an even bigger hit with "Be Good Percy." This overuse of our name wouldn't be so bad except that us Johns are shy and every time one of these stupid songs comes on, all eyes fall on us. "Hey dude, they're playing your song! Ha! Ha!" Yeah, ha, ha. 
I have personally experienced an unusual case of John abuse. It appears that Morrissey Hall had so many Johns that they had to double up and give me a John for a roommate. This 
OF INTEREST 
Cap and gown fitting for graduating 
seniors will occur today from 9 a.m. to 4:30 
p.m. at the bookstore. 
A free pizza party will be sponsored by ND & SMC student governments today at 4:30p.m. in Theodore's for students going abroad, and former foreign study students. 
A mass for peace in the Middle East will be held tonight at 10:30 p.m. in Siegfried Hall Chapel as part of Peace & Justice week. Uni­versity President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh is the celebrant. 
"Christmas in April" participants need to be at AlumniiSenior Club at 7:30a.m. this Sat­urday with their housing assignments. 
Final cuts for Cheerleading Tryouts will be held today in the pit of the JACC starting at 6 
p.m. Open to the public. 
CILAtCSC Mexico Project participants have a mandatory meeting tonight at 7:30p.m. in the C.S.C. conference room. 

'Long have I suffered through the pain of having the same name as about 300 billion other 
men ... ' John O'Brien News Copy Editor 
leads to fun phone conversations: Female Voice: Is John there? Me: This is him. Voice: Hi, you don't know me, but I'm from LeMans and I wanted to know if you could go to my formal this Saturday. 
Me: I'm sorry, I can't. I'm going home this weekend. Voice: Okay. -click-
It wasn't until after I hung up that I realized that I never asked which John she wanted. My roommate forgave me and explained that his picture isn't in the dogbook, so she probably was calling me. He obviously hasn't seen my dogbook picture. 
There is an easy solution to the John dilemma: STOP NAMING YOUR LITTLE BRATS JOHN! This makes it easier on them, you and all us Johns too. 
If you can't do that, at least give them a good nickname. My dad was smart enough to be named O'Brien, so my name became either 
O.B. or Obie. This, however, is often (mistakenly, I hope) confused with a feminine product of the same name. 
Finally, a junior in my section decided he needed nicknames for my roommate and I. Ob­viously hard-pressed, he discovered that I resemble "Herbie" from "Rudolph the Red­nosed Reindeer." Everyone seems to find this very funny, except me. "Hey John, let's hear 'I want to be a dentist.' Ha! Ha!" Yeah, ha, ha. 
Therefore, you can see why I won't be stupid enough to name my son John. I'm going to pick something original. 
Like Mike. 
John O'Brien is enrolled in the Freshman Year ofStudies. He serves as a news copy editor at The Observer. 
The Dome is now accepting 
applications for its 1989-90 yearbook staff. All positions including section editors, assistant editors and photographers are open. Applica­tions are available in the Student Activities Of­fice, Room 315 LaFortune and are due back by .. Friday, April 7. 
All Juniors should sign up for their senior portraits this week during lunch hours at both North and South dining halls for sessions April 10-11. 
"Man of Aran," Flaherty's film depicting life on the bleak Aran islands, will be shown at 
7:30 p.m. today at Saint Mary's in Room 105 Science Bldg. 
The last day to spend club money is Friday April 21 for all clubs/organizations. Questions call239-7417 between 12-4 p.m. or stop by the Student Body Treasurer's Office, 2nd Floor LaFortune. 
Artists needed for decorating the Homeless Shelter. Anyone interested please contact Step­hanie McNeill at 283-2814. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur­chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Wednesday's Staff 
Design Editor ...••......•••.......•...•••.• Kathy Gliwa Design Assistant .........•.••••.••. Cheever Griffin Typesetters................................... Mike Kolar 
........................... Andy Schlidt News Editor .......................... Christine Walsh Copy Editor ...•...•......••....••••..••• MaN Gallagher Sports Copy Editor............. Steve Megargee VIewpoint Copy Editor ......•.•..•• Mike Truppa VIewpoint Layout .•••....•.•••...•....• Laura.Manzi Accent Editor......................... Colleen Cronin Accent Copy Editor.................. MaN Murphy Accent Designer...••••••...•••..••... Chris Labaree Typist............................................ Sue Barton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..................... Rosi Lozada ND Day Editor ..•...•...••........ Jenmfer Richards SMC Day Editor..•....••••.••••.••••.. Alissa Murphy Business Copy Editor ••••...•••..•••.. Mike Kolar 

------~----------------~ 
Wednesday, April 5, 1989 The Observer page 3 
Acceptance of gifts has Wright running 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The House Ethics Committee on Tuesday interviewed two men involved in a real estate deal with House Speaker Jim Wright amid reports that Wright may have accepted $100,000 in unreported gifts from one of them. 
The committee planned to resume its closed-door deliberations on a long list of possible rules violations by Wright on Wednesday, and a final outcome of the case still appeared to be more than a week away. 
The Wall Street Journal re­ported Tuesday that the com­mittee is considering whether Wright violated rules by ac­cepting use of a Fort Worth condominium, a 1979 Cadillac and a salary paid to his wife from Fort Worth developer George Mallick, a longtime friend and business partner of the Wrights. 
House rules prohibit the ac­ceptance of gifts of more than $100 from "any person ... 
CLUBS & ORGANIZATION3 All clubs & organizations must now re-register for the 1989-90 academic year. Applications are now available in the Student Activities Office, 3rd Floor LaFortune. Applications include: 
1) Registration Form 
2) Funding Request 
3) Office Space Request 
4) Football Concession Stand Request 
Applications deadline is APRIL 19. 
ATTENTION: Grad Students, Professors, Employees 
MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Less than 1 0 minutes from campus 


·Pool. Clubhouse • locked intercom entrances 
• Washer & dryer in each apartment • flexible leases ( also -furnished executive suites ) @ 
£QUAL HOUSING
call for details-277-3731 O?POA11JNm 
!:=======================~=============---------·------.. 

having a direct interest in legis­lation." 
Wright has steadfastly denied violating House rules. But in a new variation on the denial, Mark Johnson, a spokesman for the speaker, said Tuesday that if the com­mittee finds any rules infrac­tions, they would only be "technical" and not "intentional." 
Committee members met privately Tuesday with Mallick and with Richard Swann, chairman of the Pioneer Savings Bank in Orlando, Fla., to question them about an in­vestment Mallick and Wright made in "Winderwood," a housing development under­taken by Swann and others beginning in 1985. Wright made roughly $50,000 on the deal. 
The committee apparently is exploring whether Wright or Mallick had direct financial in­terests in the health of the savings and loan industry at a time when Wright was lobbying federal regulators to be more lenient with ailing S&Ls. 
$IOOFf 
SHAMPOO, CUT& BLOW DRY 
Only$949 Reg. $10.99 
Not valid with any other offer. Coupon expires 4130/89 
f}t!~§/2, 
tO Tanning Sessions 
~'"$22 
While time is available. By appointment only. Not valid with any other offer. 
Coupon expires 4/30/89 

AP Photo 
Victory destruction 
Shortly after midnight University of Michigan students fell off a metal awning at a Chinese Restaurant in Ann Arbor, Michigan. An estimated 10,000 people were at the intersection of Church St. amd S. University and the police could do little to contol the riot that ensued. The crowd assembled to celebrate Michigan's victory in the NCAA men's basketball championship game Monday. 
Rare medieval book donated to NO 
By JOHN ZALLER Staff Reporter 
Astrik Gabriel, Professor Emeritus of the Medieval In­stitute of Notre Dame, donated an ancient 15th century book to the Hesburgh Library's Medieval University Collec­tion, Tuesday. 
The book entitled, "Fun­damentum Eterne Felicitatis" ("The Foundation of Eternal Happiness"), will be kept in the library's Rare Books Room. 
"We have one of the Medieval 

The ISO is accepting applications for the office of : 
PRESIDENT VICE-PRESIDENT SECRETARY BOARD MEMBERS 
Applications are April 7. They are available at the ISO Office, second floor LaFortune Center. Elections for 
•President and 
· Vice-President will be in April11, from 5:00 to 6:30P.M. at the ISO Lounge. 
collections in the country. Thi-s book will definitely help our collection. It is very focussed on where our strengths are," commented Robert Miller, director of libraries. 
The book was printed before any type of conventional print was developed, making the "Fundamentum" a very rare book. 
The hardbound, 43 page, "Fundamentum," written for university students of the 15th century, stresses the impor-
Israelis, Palestinians shun M.E. terrorism 
By Jeff Swanson Staff Reporter 
In a debate entitled "Israelis and Palestinians: New Prospects for Peace," two Palestinians and two Israelis discussed the differences be­tween Israelis and Palestinians and how the groups might go about achieving peace. 
Speaking from different perspectives, the four panelists expressed their thoughts on what has been done and what can and should be done to bring harmony to an area in which animosity has existed between two groups for thousands of years. 
In her opening statement, tance of religion and gives ad­vice on student life. 

Gabriel, a world renowned scholar who is fluent in 17 lan­guages, has played a large part in building up the Medieval col­lections at Notre Dame. He has donated many rare books and manuscripts to the University in the last decade. 
Copies of the "Fundamen­tum'' can only be found in three other libraries in the country, the Library of Congress, Har­vard, and the Newberry Li­brary. 
panelist Edna Hidekel, a Jew from Jerusalem who served in the Israeli army for two years, said she believes that there is a chance for peace between Is­raelis and Palestinians, al­though the actions of the Pales­tinians make it hard for her to believe. 
Hidekel cited incidents of al­leged Palestinian violence and terrorism and asked, "How can Isaelis trust what Ar?fat is saying when all this · going on?" 
Zoughbi Zoughbi, a Christian Palestinian from Bethlehem, West Bank who worked for the Ecumenical Institute for Theological Studies in Tantur for eight years, said that the PLO's recent acceptance of 
U.N. proposals to denounce ter­rorism and to acknowledge Is­rael's right to exist as a nation has "shown that the Palestin­ian leaders and people want peace." 
"In the past Palestinians did not accept coexistence, but they now are ready to accept, '' said Zoughbi. 
Yehuda Kovacs', a Jew from Tel-Aviv said, "As a Jew I'm willing to forget the past, no matter how much it hurts, and go talk to the Palestinians." "The Israeli government and the Israeli people are tired of war," he said. 
The Palestinians need to plead their case and have a part in the peace progress, but "Israel is trying to avoid peace talks like the plague," said Abu-Attiyeh. 
Wednesday, April 5, 1989
page 4 The Observer 
Exxon tanker finally emptied Sh~~n diQf!S.with Rice, Fired captain ready to surrender, face charges lsiilail af1;!, Morris Inn 
VALDEZ, Alaska-Exxon crews Tuesday finished pump­ing the remaining crude oil out of the tanker Exxon Valdez in preparation for refloating and removing the source of the na­tion's worst-ever oil spill. 
The fugitive captain of the Exxon Valdez sent signals he was ready to surrender to face lion gallons of oily waste water remained aboard the Valdez, which spilled more than 10 mil­lion gallons of crude into Prince William Sound when it struck a reef March 24. 
The company said crews would attempt to pump air into the hold and refloat the vessel off a reef at high tide Wednes-

AP 
criminal charges of operating the vessel while drunk. 
The thick oil has floated over more than 1,640 square miles and soiled 800 miles of beach. Thousands of animals are known dead. 
At noon Tuesday, Exxon said it had finished transferring 48 million gallons of crude to three other ships. Twenty-five mil-day afternoon. 
If freed, the still-leaking ship, which has eight holes some 20 feet long in its hull, will be towed to a remote and already fouled cove for repairs. 
Exxon then planned to take the ship to a Portland, Ore., dry dock, but port officials there said they weren't sure if they'd allow that, even though the $12 million repair bill would pro­vide about 200 jobs. 
"We're not willing to trade in the environment for jobs," Portland port spokesman Dar­rel Buttice said Monday. 
Oregon Gov. Neil Goldschmidt said Tuesday there are "a lot of questions that need to be answered" before the Valdez is allowed to enter the Columbia River. 
The mayor of Valdez said the ship was not welcome back in the port where it took on the load of crude. 
In Washington, Environmen­tal Protection Administrator William Reilly said the spill ~ould put the brakes on petro­leum exploration there and in other areas. "We will take apart the environmental plan­ning for every aspect of oil de­velopment in Alaska and in other sensitive areas where the environment potentially could be threatened,'' he told a House appropriations subcommittee. 
Exxon Valdez Capt. Joseph Hazelwood, who was fired and charged with being drunk at the time of the accident, made plans to surrender Tuesday to the State Police near his hometown of Huntington, N.Y., said Trooper Craig Rubio. 
By JOHN;h'BRIEN\ ''Mr. Sheen told us that he Senior Staff Reporter 
is a big Notre Dame fan," Rice said. "He told me that 
Patrons of the Morris Inn his son Charlie was a fan of were treated to an unusual mine," said Rice. sight last night .as actor Mar­tin Sheen dined with Notre According to Cosgrove, Dame football players Tony Sheen "considers Tony a Rice and Raghib Ismail~ man of great courage. He 
According to Sheen's (Rice) wasn'tsupposed to do lawyer, Joe Cosgrove, Is-what he did, but he did it." mail and Rice were invited Rice and Ismail were to have dinner with Sheen joined by five other guests because Cosgrove and Is..: at the dinner. Ismail said, "I mail are both from Wilkes-thought that because he was Barre..... Pennsylvania and a movie star he would be because Sheen "thinks the stuck-up, but he was really world of Tony RiceJ1 down to earth and friendly.'·' 
"His <Sheen'~) lawyer, '"" After dinner, Rice and Is­Joe, is a Notre Dame vm.ail attended Sheen's dis­graduate and lives dowrtthe cussion, part of the street ·from . me back in ''American Film 1American Wilkes-Barre,'' said Ismail. Values" series. 
·:i#V· . ··T\~i"·'~@t: +~t 
which we advocate-truth, gentleness, love of God, love of
Sheen 
one another, love of the Earth." 
continued from page 1 
After the film, Sheen ad­indeed unthinkable.'' . dressed questions concerning 
Sheen then introduced a nuclear weapons, saying that short film descibing the "the world is too small, it's our Nevada Desert Experience, a thinking that has to change, if group of which Sheen is a mem­we change our thinking, we ber that nonviolently works for won't need the weapons." nuclear disarmament and for The Center for Social Con­an end to nuclear testing in the cerns, which was part-sponsor desert area outside Las Vegas. of the speech, donated $3000 to 
Iri the film, Sheen narrated, the Nevada Desert Experi­"we will try to practice that ence. 
News staff promotions announced 
Summex~ 
Observer Staff Report 
Executive News Editor Matt Gallagher announced Tuesday the following promotions within the news department. 
Sara Marley, a South Bend junior majoring in English and German, will serve as news editor. She previously served as an assistant news editor. 
Sophomore Michelle Dall of Dubuque, Iowa, will also serve as news editor. The Govern­ment and American Studies major was also an assistant news editor. 
Tim O'Keefe, a junior major­ing in Philosophy and English from Boca Raton, Fla., will serve as Business editor. He will also continue as assistant news editor. 
Junior Biology major Greg Lucas has been promoted to as­sistant news editor. A resident of Deerfield, Ill., Lucas previ­ously served as news copy editor. 
Florentine Hoelker, a sopho­more English and American Studies major from Columbus, Ohio, has also been hired as as­sistant news editor. His previ­ous job at The Observer was news copy editor. 
Sophomore Christine Walsh, a Governmeni!PPE major from Yorktown Heights, N.Y., has also been promoted to as­sistant news editor from news copy editor. Walsh also serves as assistant Viewpoint editor. 
Kelley Tuthill, a freshman from Hingham, Mass., will also serve as assistant news editor. Her previous job was news copy editor. 
Sarah Voigt, a sophomore in the Program of Liberal Studies, has been hired as news copy editor. The Pittsburgh resident served previously as assistant accent editor. 
Sophomore Laura Downs will serve as a copy editor. Downs, from Bayside, N.Y., currently is a staff reporter. 
Freshman John O'Brien from Oak Lawn, Ill., has also been hired as news copy editor. He plans on majoring in American Studies. 
Janice O'Leary, a freshman from Hauppauge, N.Y. will serve as news copy editor. She previously worked as design assistant. 
Missy Weber, a Mishawaka freshman continues in the capacity of news copy editor. 

Mike Kolar will serve as Business copy editor. Kolar, a sophomore Finance major 
STORAGE
from St. Paul, Minn., also works as a typesetter for The 
RESERVATION
Observer. 
CALL NOW Iss3-19s91
Cuba 
continued from page 1 
• VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS has entered the era of high 
•APPROX 21/2 MILES NORTH US 31-33
technology, of intellectual labor, of the decisive role of sci­
•GATES OPEN ALL DAY SUNDAY 
ence," he said. But Gorbachev added that 
Master Mini Warehouses 
"We do not regard our ap­proaches and solutions as some 
P.O. BOX tOO NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 universal prescription for all. 
"BEST UTILE STORE-HOUSE IN MICHIANA" 
rrr~
c__ 

Catholics In Bad Standing 
One of this campus' favorite 
bands! If you haven't heard them yet, come see what you've been 
missing! FRIDAY NIGHT, APRIL 7 Time TBA 
Wednesday, April 5, 1989 The Observer page 5 

AP Photo 
Showing how it's played 
President George Bush explains the American game of baseball to Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak as they enjoy the season opening game between the Baltimore Orioles and the Boston Red Sox in Baltimore Monday. 

is holding a meeting for all current and prospective 
News reporters 
on Wednesday, AprilS at 8 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room, 2nd Floor LaFortune Center 
All current reporters are required to attend. Anyone interested in joining The Observer news staff should also attend this meeting. 
For information, call Matt Gallagher at 2 9-53 3 or 283-1957 
Mubarak seeks way to peace 
WASHINGTON-Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak said Tuesday he sees no way to stop the violence on the West Bank and in Gaza that has taken more than 400 lives since Pal­estinian Arabs began their revolt against Israeli control nearly 16 months ago. 
After meeting with Secretary of State James Baker for two hours, Mubarak said that "if anybody could stop it, we would be very pleased," then asked, "But how?" 
The Egyptian leader, nearing the end of two days of talks with Bush administration officials, made no public demands on the United States or Israel. He said he was simply "trying to find out what's the best way to achieve peace" through negotiations. 
Baker stood aside, and in his only statement to reporters said "it is important that we try and create a climate that can move us toward those negotiations and try and im­prove the atmosphere on the ground." 
The next step in the search is a visit beginning Wednesday by Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir. He is expected to outline to President Bush and Baker a plan for holding elections among the 1.2 million Palestinians who live in the terc ritories won from the Arabs in the 1967 Six-Day War. 
The idea behind Shamir's proposal is to have Pales­tinians choose leaders to negotiate with Israel. 
Mubarak, who has insisted that Israel deal instead with the Palestine Liberation Organiza­tion, withheld judgment on Shamir's proposal. He said the criterion should be whether an election would help advance the peace process. 
The Palestinian rebellion, which Shamir and other Israeli officials say was inspired and is maintained by the PLO, began in December 1987 and has had the effect of enhancing 
U.S. interest in the situation on the West Bank and in Gaza. Since the rebellion began, 418 Palestinian Arabs and 18 Is­raelis have died. 
Mubarak, in response to a question, told reporters "neit­her you nor anybody else would be able to stop the intifada (uprising in Arabic) .... Let us be realistic and practical. We all hope that we could reach peace and avoid losing lives and spending money for killing and bloodshed...." 
Earlier, in an appeal for ad­ditional U.S. economic and mil­itary aid, Mubarak told 15 senators that his nation had adopted economic reforms and needs a continued high level of 
U.S. help. 
~ 
~ECURITY BEAT 
WED., MARCH 29 
1 p.m. A graduate student re­ported the theft of her purse and its contents from the Graduate Stu­dent Office in Haggar Hall some­time between 8:30 a.m. and noon. Losses are estimated at $35. 
3:40 p.m. A resident of Stanford Hall reported the theft of a UPS package sent to him which was left outside a dorm room to be picked up. The theft occurred sometime between noon and 5 p.m. on 3/27. Losses estimated at $44. 
9 p.m. A Grace Hall student re­ported the theft of the Hall 's mail­room key from inside his dorm 

9:30 p.m. Several Notre Dame students reported the thefts of per­sonal property from their lockers in the Men's Non-varsity locker room of the JACC sometime around 9 .m.. Total losses estimated at $135. 
THU., MARCH 30 
2:30 p.m. An off-campus student reported reported the theft of a bike while secured to the· bike rack at Grace Hall sometime between 7 p.m., 3/24 and 3 p.m., 3/25. Loss is estimated at $200. 
8:35p.m. A Notre Dame student was issued a citation by Notre Dame Security for traveling 53 
m.p.h. in a posted 30 m.p.h. zone on Ivy Road. 
FRI., MARCH 31 
2:11a.m. A Notre Dame student was issued a citation by Notre Dame security for traveling 44 
m.p.h. in a posted 25 m.p.h. zone on Juniper road. 
2:20 a.m. A resident of Knott Hall reported the theft of her coat and its contents from the coat room of Alumni Senior Bar sometime that evening. Losses are estimated at 
$200. 
9 a.rrt A Notre Dame employee reported vandalism done on the golf greens sometime between 7 p.m., 3/30 and 7:30a.m., 3/31. Total damages estimated at over $130. 
9:30am. A Notre Dame employee 
-reported extensive vandalism done on the first floor lounge of Dillon Hall and to a Coke machine and phone cover on the third floor of the dorm sometime before 6:50 
a.m.. Total damage estimates are unknown. 
11 a.m. An employee of Notre Dame reported that sometime be­tween 10 p.m., 3/30 and 7:30 a.m. 
3/31, unknown person(s) had broken a parking information sign that was posted in the Uni­versity Club parking lot.Damages are estimated at $100. 
3:05 p.m. A student from Sorin Hall reported the theft of a spare tire cover from his vehicle while parked in the C-1 lot sometime around 3 p.m .. Loss is estimated at $20. 
SUN., APRIL 2 4 a.m. Notre Dame Security re­ported vandalism done to a Stu­
dent's vehicle while parked in D-6 Lot sometime between 3/31 and 11:33 p.m., 4/1. 

SHENANIGANS 
Notre Dame's Singing and Dancing Ensemble 
presents the sounds of the Hollywood Glamour era 
The Annen berg Auditorium The Snite Museum of Art University of Notre Dame 
Apri16, 1989, 7:00-7:3Q pm 
Sopranos Basses Gretchen Gordon Kevin Bish 
staging director sound and light manager Kathy Habiger Joe Clair Laura Harter Thomas Daugherty Anne-Marie Laboe Dan Gore 
general manager
Altos RobbMicekJulie Bruce 
financial manager
assistant manager Ensemble
Gigi Junkins Brad Luetkenhaus
Jackie Laboe 
bass
Anne Soisson 
Kellie Porter Tenors piano I keyboards 
Tim Beerman Greg Scheckler assistant manager drums 
Tony Bosco Walter Tambor James Brandt 
musical director piano I keyboards
John Stavrakos 
7:30-9:00 pm, movie ':After the Thin Man" 
,...--------------------------~-~---------------~~-~-----------------~ 
Business 
page 6 Wednesday, April 5, 1989 
Gary casino bill revived in House 
law.
Associated Press 
"I think people would like to 
INDIANAPOLIS-A proposal see it considered again in the to let voters in Gary decide if House," said Rogers, whose they want to legalize casino casino proposal was defeated gambling in the Lake County on a 54-46 House vote earlier in city was resurrected Monday the session. in the Indiana House less than Last Thursday, the Senate a week after it suffered its Finance Committee voted 11-3 second defeat of the legislative against adding the casino pro­session. posal to another House bill. 
The House Elections Com­Despite those earlier defeats, mittee added a casino referen­Rogers said she was confident dum proposal to Senate Bill 465 the proposal could pass the and then voted 9-1 to send the House on a second try. amended measure to the full "As we have gone along, we House, where it will be eligible have gathered some momen­for amendment and a final tum," she said. "I think we vote. have the numbers in the House 
Rep. Earline Rogers, D­to get the bill out." Gary, suggested adding the The proposal Rogers in­
.. casino referendum proposal to serted in S.B. 465 on Monday is the bill that makes several not the same as her earlier changes in Indiana election proposals. 
MARKET CLOSES 
Activity over the past 30 trading days 
2,400 ,----,----,-----,----~-----.--------., 

2,350 
2,300 
2,250 

2,200 
DOW JONES AVERAGE 
APRIL 4 1989 
2,150 
HIGH 2,314.88 LOW 2,282.44 CLOSE 2,298.20
2,100 
CHANGE Down 6.60 
2,050 -~J...--------------~~---_jW T F M T W T F M T W T F M T W T F M T W TID MTWTF MT 
27 6 13 20 27 3 
March April
February 
AP 
Housing affordability sharply down 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-An .index measuring the ability of the typical American family to buy a home took its sharpest drop in 15 years last month, as rising mortgage rates and home prices resulted in a loss of pur­chasing power, a real estate trade group said Monday. 
The National Association of Realtors said its affordability index was at 105 in February, down 5.1 index points from a revised 110.1 in January. It was the biggest month-to-month decline since the measure dropped 5.2 index points from 137 to 131.8 in January 1974. 
Test your consumer knowledge 
From the United States Of· ANSWERS: you are sjmply taking longer fice of Consumer 4-ffairs. 1. True. If you are denied to pay them. The eighth annual Na­credit, you must be in­4. True. A 1987 law will 
tional Consumers Week is formed in writing and the eventually limit. to one busi­April23-29. Here's a chance notice must list the specific ness day the time banks can to test your con5umer knowl­reasons why or tell you how hold most checks before edge and skills. Ask yourself to get an explanation.Jf the making the .funds available if the following statements denial occurred in the last 30 to depositors. The law is are true or false, then check days and was based on a being phased in gradually, below for answers. credit· report, you'll be told and today t 01ost checks can TRUE OR FALSE? the how to contact the credit be held no longer than two 
1. 
If your credit card appli-. bureau that supplied the or three days. Most out-of­cation is denied, you can see report. That credit bureau town checks still can be held a copy of your credit report must give you a free copy of six days, but a shorter per­for free. your credit report. iod is being phased in. 

2. 
Credit card companies 2. False. Most credit card (banks, stores, · gas companies offer a 20-30 day 5. False. The airline must cmpanies, etc.) must pro­grace period, but some find you an alternate flight, vide a 20-25day "grace" per­charge interestfrom the day but compensation for being iod before charging you in­the purchase is posted on bumped depends on the terest. your account. Lenders must . length of.the delay; Ifthe air~ 

3. 
A bankruptcy will·stay tell you .whether they J,ave a line can get you on another on your credit record for ten grace periOd and if so, h()w flight scheduled to arrive years, during which time· it long it is. . . ·· · · within ocne hour of your will be very difficult to ob­3. True for the first part. . original flight, no compensa­tain credit. Although credit bureaus tion is required. If the delay 

4. 
When you deposit a must delete most negative is longer, the airline must check in your account, you credit information more provide compensation of its can usually use the money than seven years old, they choice. One· to two hours, in a day or two. mayreport a bankruptcy for and you get compensation 

5. 
When you're bumped ten years. As for the second (usually, but not always, a from your flight, the airline part, your ability to get free ticket) equal to the must put you on another credit afterbankruptcy may value of the flight from flight and give you a free vary. For some lenders, it · which you were bumped up roundtrip ticket for future depends on whether your to $200. Longer, and it's up use. debts were discharged or to $400. 



Minimum wage raise not just talk for many 
Associated Press "I don't understand why it's 
been so long,'' Golden said in 
RUSSELLVILLE, Ark.-an interview last week. "The Around the bend from a field cost of living has gone up quite of grazing livestock, a dozen a bit." fast food restaurants compete The wait for an increase in for business along a few the minimum wage may be hundred yards of North over. Arkansas Road. 
The Commercial strip looks The Democratic leadership virtually identical to hundreds of Congress and President like it across the country. But Bush both.support an increase, things are far different here in although th.ey're bickering the Arkansas River valley than over the numbers: The House along the nation's booming has endorsed raising it to $4.55 coasts. an hour by October 1991; Bush 
These restaurants don't have has said he will go no higher to compete for workers and than $4.25 in January 1992. they are willing to work for the Debate resumes this week in minimum wage. the Senate. 
Stephanie McConnell knows The decision in Washington that firsthand. will have a far greater impact 
"I'm not irreplaceable. Es­in Russellville, across pecially not here," said the Arkansas and throughout the worker at a Kentucky Fried Midwest and South than it does Chicken in this town 70 miles in the nation's capital. northwest of Little Rock. 
So does Mark Golden, who A sign hanging in a downtown started working at a Kroger su­Washington sandwich shop permarket for $3.10 an hour-­promises $5 an hour to new just before the last increase in workers; a minimum wage job the minimum wage to $3.35 an there wouldn't find many hour in 1981. takers. 
Saleswomen invading traditionally male profession 
By LOUIS RUKEYSER dosed doors to top corporate sales jobs an generating $1.75 million in an­Not that all the bastions of aggressive Tribune Media Services wth six-figure incomes. Since 1981 nualized new business premiums. male chauvinism are crumbling. A alone, the proportion of women in sales Prudential's $73-million woman recent survey by PCA Sales Manage­Did you hear the one about the travel­has nearly tripled, from 7 percent to 18 typifies the combination of energy and ment Group couldn't find a single sales­ing saleswoman and the farmer's son? percent, and executives report that this caring that the most effective of the woman in the general machinery or Have you seen Arthur Miller's play includes an unusually high percentage new breed exemplify. As she put it to aerospace industries (where, "Death of a Saleswoman"--you know, of the leading performers in their me, "I'm excited and feel alive when I ironically, Rosie the Riveter proved her the one about Wilhelmina Loman? Look fields. sell insurance. I have hundreds and employment worth back in World War out, honey, here comes that insurance Examples of the new breed of hard­hundreds of clients, and I am interested II) and a mere 3 percent or less in fab­saleswoman again. driving saleswoman abound. in all of them. I think of my clients as ricated metal products, tools and hard­All the above may still strike most Terry Casey, a divorced mother of family, and I let them know I'll be there ware, automotive parts or even trans­
Americans as bizarre. High-pressure two with no college or work experience, whenever they need me." portation equipment, such as the rail selling remains to many the quintes­became the No. One seller of Such women often find that the carriages, subway cars and buses that sentially male profession, and statisti­multimillion-dollar phone systems for gender cliches can be turned in their carry a substantial part of the female cally it still is. But, as one gender New York's AIM Telephones by the favor. Being female in a top sales job population every day. stereotype after another bites the cos­time she was 40. Robin Milne sells com­is still enough of a curiosity to help them 
But the Bureau of Labor Statistics metic dust, the 1980s has become the puter hardware in 17 Western states for get in the door, and the traditional no­reports that women sellers have be­decade of the emerging American Atlanta's HBO & Co., logging 15,000 tion of greater female sensitivity can come easy to find in real estate (more saleswoman. miles a month in air travel and earning be an effective tool in closing the deal than 48 percent), advertising and Women, of course, have long been more than $100,000 a year. and nurturing a long-term business re­related sales (nearly 48 percent) and .visible in lower-paid sales jobs: retriev­At Prudential, whose 22,000 agents lationship. In the end, though, success­securities and financial (nearly 38 per­ing merchandise in department stores agents include only 2,800 women, wo­ful saleswomen are indistinguishable cent), a field that a mere 15 years ago and boutiques; staging tea parties in men won all three major sales awards professionally from successful was still so male-dominated that a wo­
their homes to sell Tupperware or ven­last year. Best of the bunch was salesmen: they know their customers, man broker was, almost by definition, ding A von products door to door. Estrella Linch, of Valley View, Clif., they know their products and they use an outstanding broker. What's new is that women are now who became Prudential's top district their heads. They've just had to show Willy Loman, you wouldn't know the pounding on--and opening--previously agent by selling $73 million in insurance a little more ingenuity to get their jobs. territory. 


Viewpoint
Wednesday, April 5, 1989 page 7 

LETTERS 
Tuition increase slights many ND students 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219}239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor .•.. Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor ................. Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ....... Shannon Roach Sports Editor ...................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks Accent Editor .......................... John Blasi Systems Manager ............. Mark Derwent Photo Editor ............................ Eric Bailey OTS Director................... Angela Bellanca Controller............................ Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the poliCieS of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the maJOrity of the following: Ed1tor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor. V1ewpoint Editor. Sports Editor, Accent Editor. PhOto Editor. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, is encouraged 
EDITORIAL 
Editorials meant to foster debate 
Garry Trudeau's "Doonesbury" comic strip ap­pears on this page of The Observer. His topic this week is the AIDS virus, and although the topic itself is not unusual, the Editorial Board of The Observer finds Trudeau's handling of the issue tasteless, in­sensitive and offensive. 
The Observer has the option to edit the strip, or omit it entirely. It is the decision of the editors whether or not to subject our readership to offensive material, but there is a fine line between deleting what is of­fensive and allowing an individual to express his or her opinion. 
With this in mind, Doonesbury appears this week as Trudeau created it. What appears in his work is his opinion, which he is, of course, entitled to. 
The members of The Observer Editorial Board are also entitled to their opinions, as are the readers of The Observer. 
Readers of this newspaper may have noticed a change in the format of the Viewpoint section to in­clude regular editorials on topics of campus, local, national or international importance. The editorials are written after discussion of the issues among and a majority vote by the Editorial Board. The Observer hopes that these editorials will foster heightened awareness of these issues and encourage thein:liscus­sion both around campus and in the Viewpoint pages. 
Inasmuch as The Observer promotes its own 
opinion, it always encourages input from the students, 
staff and administration to have their voices heard, 
in agreement or or disagreement with the topics _ex­
pressed in the editorials, or on any topic. Columns 
and letters can be submitted by members of the Notre 
DameSaint Mary's community, and others, in order 
to express individual opinions. 
As a student voice at Notre Dame, The Observer is 
a forum for expression of ideas and opinions, like 
Garry Trudeau's, like the Editorial Board's and like 
those of Observer staff which appear in daily and 
weekly columns. These, and all that appears on th~ 
pages of Viewpoint, are the opinions of the individuals 
responsible for creating them. 
DOONESBURY 
WUL, Hl5 SPIRITS ARE 
HOW'5 6001?, E3/IT YOUMIGHT V/5/TOR, 
He' /3e A U7Tl& SHOC/<&1/ MR.. ! f)(}fN6~ 8YHI'3APP#IRANC&. UPPIN­! He's PRETTYeM/JfJAT&V. COTT' 
'\ \ 
Dear Editor: _ 
I am writing regarding what I perceive to be a blatant lack of concern on the Administra­tion's part for keeping student costs at a reasonable level. The typical Notre Dame under­graduate will spend $15,000 this year, $10,500 on tuition and fees alone. If what I hear is correct, we can expect a $900 tuition in­crease next year. As room and board fees will most certainly increase as well, student costs for next year will probably top $16,000. Why such a huge in­crease? It is not as though the University is financially strapped in any way--I believe we have the largest endowment of any Catholic school in the na­tion. Why can't the Administra­tion exercise a little financial restraint instead of foisting off another big tuition increase on the unsuspecting students. 
I sincerely believe that the financial people cooking up these numbers think that an­other thousand dollars here and another thousand there will not be much of a burden on the typical Notre Dame stu­dent. His or her family is wealthy and another increase won't make much of a differ-money for such needed im­ence, right? Wrong! I would provements as expanded com­venture to say that the typical puter services and more class­undergraduate comes from a room space. I know that the middle-class family where school's costs are increasing both the mother and father yearly as well. I do· believe, have worked extremely hard to however, that it is the duty and reach some level of financial obligation of the University to security: These parents send exercise a little financial their child to Notre Dame for restraint. There just comes a an excellent education within a point where one must ask if Catholic setting. Since the fin-these large tuition increases ancial aid department has in-from year to year are formed them that they will be reasonable and fair to the stu­receiving no sort of aid, these dent. parents must cut corners, In the official "Bulletin of In­make sacrifices, and do with-formation," the University out in order to send their child writes that "due to the increas­to this institution. What little ing costs, annual increments in the student can contribute the. . . budget can be an­hardly makes a dent in the total ticipated." I submit that the costs. These parents neither proposed budget increase for expect nor deserve huge an-next year is more than a simple nual increases in tuition; the "annual increment." As far as Administration shows a blatant exceeding the rate of inflation disregard for the delicate fam-and any reasonable incremen­ily financial situation when it tal increase, it is unfair. I sin­arbitrarily jacks up the cost cerely hope that when the Ad­year after year. ministration next considers the 
I understand and sympathize budget numbers, it makes a with what the University is concern for the student's finan­trying to accomplish--to build cial situation a top priority. a truly world-class institution Michael B. Buchheit of higher learning. I know this Grace HaU goal requires a great deal of March 28, 1989 
Freshmen crucial to life at Holv Cross 
Dear Editor: 
Holy Cross Hall will be returned to the Holy Cross Con­gregation after the 1989-90 aca­demic year. This essentially means that it will not be open for student housing and present residents will have to be rel­ocated across the campus. In an effort to simplify this transi­tion, I believe the Office of Stu­dent Affairs is neglecting the best interests of many Univer­sity students and students-to­be. I am referring to the deci­sion that "every effort will be made to avoid placing any in­coming freshmen in Holy Cross Hall." I feel that the freshmen 
of any hall add  a  facet that  
would  be  severly  missed  in  
their absence.  

Being a freshman this year, 
I was extremely nervous upon bu( also for future would-be 
my arrival at the University, Hogs. Before my arrival at 
but upon my entrance into Holy Notre Dame, I was informed Cross Hall, I was greeted by a that Holy Cross was a "subur­deluge of upperclassmen eager ban" meant was that we'd have to carry my bags and show me to walk a great deal, but once to my new room. During the I had overcome that setback, I course of that first weekend, saw the true beauty of livin' in these upperclassmen led us to the burbs. If the lake and the socials with other halls and ducks weren't enough to con­continued to help us assimilate vince me, the guys were. I into our new environment. would hate to see a group of Even now, if I have a question freshmen miss out on the or problem, I can refer to these unique experience of "Hog­same guys who were so helpful dom." in the first weeks. Now, when I hope that after reading this, it nears the time for us to return the Office of Student Affairs the guidance to incoming fresh-will recognize the great injus­men, we are told that there tices they are about to per­aren't going to be any. petrate and reconsider their Yet, my concern is not only actions. Douglas Heberle for those who are currently Holy Cross HaU residents of Holy Cross Hall, April 3, 1989 
· Crime must be reported for safety reasons 
Dear Editor: 
On Friday, March 17, at ap­proximately 5:45 p.m., a wo­man was attacked on the na­ture trail located northwest of Saint Mary's campus by an un­known person. Fortunately, she was able to escape and was not seriously harmed. The Saint Joseph's County Sher­riff's Office was notified, and they in turn notified Saint Mary's Security. Saint Mary's Security has conducted an in­vestigation regarding the inci­dent. The incident was con­firmed by Security in notices sent through the mail on Tues­day, March 21 to all students. the students have not been in­
Security's job is to protect formed but, instead, had to the students ..All efforts should hear about through the often have been made to reach every unreliable grapevine? Security student in order to notify her may feel that, by not informing of the possible threat of using the students, they are protect­the nature trail at this present ing us, or that, if only they know time. As it is, by not telling the about an incident and they students promptly, students don't tell anybody, they can were using the trail during the pretend it never happened. But weekend, ignorant of the things do happen, and, in dangers. reality, ignoring crime does not 
Why is it that the Saint make it go away. Mary's officials and Security Jennifer Glaser department waited four days to Catherine Cotter inform the students of the at-Jayne Ader tack? And why is it that there Saint Mary's College are other incidents about which March 21, 1989 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
YOU 5TIU. W&U, 
MAl<&~ fAJOME3N, 
M/55? Sflv(X)N, 5URe. A 
MISS2 KJI?( toTOF{j?(]f) 
THAT[}()&S 
M/3!I \ 
I 
'The taller bamboo grows, the lower it bends.' 
Anonymous 
Accent
page B Wednesday, April 5, 1989 
ND/SMC's unique chance to help the community 
STEPHANIE SNYDER 
accent writer 
A
fter the frolic of St. Patrick's Day and the relaxation of Easter, the holidays may appear to be over. For soine of the less fortunate residents of South Bend, however, there is a special "holiday" scheduled for Saturday, April 8. On this day Notre Dame students are given the unique opportunity of fulfilling some simple wishes held by these resi­dents. 
This will be the first year for Chrtistmas in April, a volunteer service project di­rected toward repairing and renovating homes owned by the elderly, handicapped, and disadvantaged in South Bend's Northeast Neighbor­hood. At the same time this day will mark the three year anniversary for the Great Hunger Clean-Up, a volunteer fundraising project which benefits not only the commu­nity of South Bend, but other cities and even other countries as well. 
Christmas in April, sched­uled for April 8, and the Great Hunger Clean-Up, which is originally scheduled nationally for April 15, were meant to be run completely separate from one another. The closeness of these dates however, made it necessary for both committees to meet, discuss, and consequently agree on joining forces on April 8, in order to obtain the greatest amount of partici­pants for each program. 
John Setzer, a junior and an active leader in the organiza­tion of the Great Hunger Clean-Up explained, "We are going to try to work with Christmas in April and, at the same time, fulfill our obliga­tion with the Great Hunger Clean-Up in the community." 
In order to fulfill their obli­gation and also benefit Christmas in April, those who have already volunteered their time and energy for Christmas in April will be given pledge sheets in the name of the Hunger Clean-
BUZZ MC FLATTOP 
Up. These pledge sheets will ask, not require, the volun­teers to locate some mone­tary sponsors for the work they will be engaging in on Saturday. 
Christmas in April, which started in Texas ten years ago, spread to Kansas City, Washington D.C., and was introduced and readily ac­cepted in South Bend. This year, 43 houses were in­spected and met the commit­tee's eligibility criteria. 
On Saturday, groups of vol­unteers· will perform certain tasks such as painting, insula­tion, roofing, and cleaning on each house. For the more dif­ficult tasks, such as roofing, a skilled worker will be as­signed with the group 
A contest has been running between the dorms; the dorm with the highest percentage of volunteers will receive a plaque commemorating their participation. 
According to Pat Cook, a senior and a committee chair­person for Christmas in April, one of the most exciting aspects of Christmas in April this year was the tremendous response to the program. "We have virtually 2,000 volun­teers this year--those from Notre Dame as well as volun­teers from the South Bend community. It's overwhelm­ing," Cook exclaimed. 
The Great Hunger Clean­Up, for its part, hopes to raise a significant amount of money. Last year, 250 Notre Dame students raised more than $2500, which was donated to Real Services and the Hope Rescue Mission in South Bend as well as to an Overseas Development Net­work CODN) project in Zim­babwe. 
Cook summed up both proj­ect's compromises and expec­tations when he explained, 
· "Christmas in April and the Great Hunger Clean-Up both realized that our projects were meant to benefit the community and therefore it would wise to join forces so that we could have a stronger impact on the community." 


Special to the Observer 
Mary Berger and Eric Donkers dance their way across England as part of the Notre Dame Ballroom Club's competion there. 
Dancing across Britain 
Eight of Notre Dame's finest ballroom dancers coml!Jine toe-tapping tradition with good clean fun 
Mary Berger 
Accent writer 

an you im­agine a club at Notre Dame with almost as many 
members as there are in the current Freshman, Sophomore, Junior, or Senior class? Since class sizes average 1800 mem­bers, that would be quite a popular organization! 
Well, Cambridge Univer­sity in England, is home to a club with 1400 members. It is their Ballroom Dance Club, and it is one of their most popular school pro­grams. 
The Ballroom Dance Club of Notre Dame-Saint Mary's may not stand up to that of Cambridge in number of members (we have about 50 paying mem­bers), or hours of practice (serious Cambridge dan­cers practice every after­noon and evening while serious Domers practice three times a week), but over spring break, we showed the British that we could definitely hold our own on the dance floor. 
Seven Notre Dame stu­dents and myself went to England for a week over Spring Break with our coa­ch, Loretta Spencer, to participate in the first ever United States-United Kingdom Collegiate Dance Challenge Tour. 
During the week we were there, we traveled through­out western and northern England and southern Wales, dancing with and against the eight other American universities who were participating: Brown, University of California at Berkeley, Catholic Univer­sity of America, University of Connecticut, Massachu­setts Institute of Technolo­gy, University of Massa­chusetts, Wichita State University, and University of Wisconsin. 
We competed in three different team matches, sometimes against British university teams like Bristol, Cardiff, South­hampton, Cambridge, and Oxford, or against regional teams not necessarily com­posed of students like Avon or Southern Wales. 
In these competitions, each of our four couples would dance one or two of either the "smooth" or "latin" dances. The smooth dances were the waltz and the quickstep; the latin dances were cha-cha and jive. The number of points for each couple were totalled and team awards were given based on these scores. The Notre Dame team did fairly well in these matches, one time placing eighth out of 16 teams. 
We really strutted our stuff in the individual com­petitions. We danced the same dances as we did in the team matches, plus we entered the foxtrot, tango, rhumba, samba, and mambo events. 
One couple, Allison Velders and Terry Lahey, placed second in the Amer­ican Style Waltz; Eric Donkers and I placed second in the International Rhumba. Harry Neidig and Jackie Klaiss made fre­quent appearances in final rounds as well, placing fourth in the Jive and the American Rhumba. The team's final individual award was a fourth place in Jive won by Kate Lyons and John Shipman. 
'The focus of the week 
was definitely on dancing, 
but many of the trip's high­
lights and our fondest 
memories resulted from traveling, sightseeing, and 
meeting people. For in­
stance, the week started 
eff on what could have 
been a bad note, had our 
enthusiastic team not 
turned it into a good one. 
A broken hydraulic pump on our plane caused us to have an almost three hour delay in Chicago. Rather than pass the time getting restless on the plane, many of the passengers got off to stretch their legs in the airport, and some of the Notre Dame dancers decided to take advantage of the extra time to get in a little extra practice. 
Armed with a small ghetto box and a couple of tapes with ballroom music, they began dancing in the concourse. Slowly but sure­ly, other dancers, team supporters and even some passerbys, joined in. At one point, the TWA atten­dant boomed over the loudspeaker, "There will be no dancing in the G con­course." Boos and hisses were flung forth as the crowd started to disperse until the attendant quickly piped up, "Just kidding," to a chorus of cheers and dancing feet. 
On April 15, Notre Dame is hosting the Regional Amateur Ballroom Dance Competition. We will be competing against some of the teams we have already matched steps with, but we will also be competing · against other teams for the first time. If we remember the experience we gained in England, the new steps we learned, to keep time, to keep our heads up, shoulders down, necks back, to keep smiling, and keep off each other's toes, we shouldn't have any trouble sweeping the events. 


Wednesday, April 5, 1989 
The Observer page 9 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Bookstore results, schedule 
Women's Bookstore Basketball teams may pick 
Bookstore 1 0 Tuesday's Re'sults 4:45 • R.P. Ness. Gozinyu & 3 lmmate..vs. An
up schedules and rules from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through 
4:00 -Jeff and 4 Skins over 5 Bucks for 1 Game by 13
Stepan 1 Other, A Squirrel, A Monkey.. 
4:00 ~Jerry's Kids over Runnin' Rebels by 13
Friday at the SUB office. -The Observer 
5:30 · Hate Dallas Early vs. Three-Man Team 4:45 -Best of the West over Mach 2, O-Man, Shoe­4:45 · Digger Stifed Me a Tip at Coach's over Vermin 
Stepan 5 •· ln,Piuto. and Badger by 4 
Long II by 11 4:00 ·Moose Pellets vs. Barking Squid Meets the 
5:30 • President, Beer, and 3 guys who like them 5:30 • James and the Highway Robbers over 4 Doobage Master over Flannery's Kids by 6 
Rolfs Aquatic Center will be open additionally from 
Putzes and a Puke by 10 4:45 · Hey You Kids Get Out..vs. Waterin· Hole,
4 to 6:30p.m. weekdays. A long course (50 m) set-up will 
Lyons 11
Stepan 2 Vish, Bert.. 
4:00 ·The Fish That Saves Pitt over 3 EE's Me and 
4:00 • P~te Kern and 4 guys.. over Four guys who
be in place Tuesdays and Thursdays during these hours. 
5:30 · Maureen McFadden Pass1on Seekers vs. can shoot.. by 4 
My Girlfriend by 14 Chairmen of the Boards
-The Observer 
4:45 -Not a chance m hell over 5 guys by 7 4:45 • No Fetching Allowed over 5 Guys Looking Stepan 6 5:30-Duggar and guys .. over Uemsons of the Deep For a Fusion by 1 0 4:00 • A1r Check and Ground Support vs. M1enby 2 5:30 · Dirty Dogs ... over Just Gettin the Feel... by 8 Chi Chen ~Yith a Side of Cabbage 
The Blue-Gold Game will be held Saturday, April 
Stepan 3 Lyons 12 4:45 · 4 Guys With A Future and An American 4:00 • Sigma Pi Fingjacks over Mattress Dames by We Dribble Before We Shoot over 1 Guy, Another 
Studies Major vs. Just In Time22, at 1:30 p.m. in the stadium. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
5 Guy, and 3 Other Guys by 2 5:30 • The San Diego Chicken, Foghorn Log­
students will be admitted upon presentation of an ID card 
4:45 • Chicks and Booze over Lunchbreak by 6 4:45 • 1 Jim-Bob Dadiotis and 4 others...over Mr. 
horn...vs. Air Borden 
5:30 • G-Man over We Only Want to Win Just One Coffee & Non-Dairy..by 14 
Bookstore 9at gates 15 and 16. Spouses and children must have a ticket. 
by forfeit 5:30 · The Cotton Club over The Cheese Factory 4:00 · Murphy's Men vs. Byrds and the Terror­
General admission tickets for the public are available from 
Stepan 4 by 14 dactyls
4:00 -Maqnamious Chubbies over P hv 14 Wednesday's Games
9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Saturday at gate 10 of the Joyce 
4:45 · 5 Methods of Contraception vs. The Kids4:45-Towers of Power over Team X by 10 Stepan 1 From the Gritty's Streets
ACC. Adult tickets are $3 in advance and $4 game day. 
5:30 -Ted Bundy & the Electrics over The Money 4:00 • Rise & Fall of the Tower Commission vs. 
5:30 · We Might Win Because Snuff..vs. Im­Men by 2 DOA 
probable Cause Stepan 5 4:45 · Chestnut Moose Lightening vs. LaLa's Top 
Youth tickets are $1.50 in advance and $2 the day of the 
game. -The Observer 
4:00 -Lou's School of Driving over Woody Loves 5 Bookstore 10 Lisa... by 16 5:30 • The Burke Rockets vs. Return of the Big 4:00 · 4 Guys and A Little Soul vs. Rubber Cement 
4:45 -Strapper, Prisby, and the Leather Monkeys Men From U State 4:45 -Transpo'rt Phenomenon vs. Our Swimsuit
The crew team wiiJ. meet tonight at 7:30p.m. in 127 
over Lenny's Meltones by 10 Stepan 2 Issue Is Glued Shut 
5:30 • Killerbees II over We're Not Lovers, Their our 4:00 · Spud Webb & 4 Other Short Guys vs. Phi 5:30 • 4 Miscreants and a Quagmire vs. 5 Short
Niewland Science Hall. Election of new officers will be dis­
Sisters by forfe1t Runna Gunna Guys Who Like to Be On Top
cussed. -The Observer 
Stepan 6 4:45 · Hugh Wade's Disciples vs. Jazz in Liturgy Lyons 11 
4:00 -Slow Train Coming.. over Charles Thompson 5:30 · Beezlebub and 4 Other Reasons ... vs. Mur­4:00 ·John Tower's Drinking Buddies vs. Charles & 4 Other Guys by 18 ray's Li«<e sister & 4 Chicks .. Bronson, Salman Rushdie ... 
Irish Insanity will meet in Dooley Room of Lafortune 
4:45-4 Guys Who You'd Like to Know..over Crime Stepan 3 4:45 ·Salman Rushdie and 4 More ..vs. Joh Tower, 
Doesn't Pay by 17 4:00 • Nonoxynol Fire vs. Ballet is a Weasel Keith Tower and 3 Other ... 
at 7:30p.m. tonight to discuss plans for the upcoming foot­
5:30 -Rectifiers over Thorn in a Cherry Bush by 4 4:45 · Skinny Juice vs. Zubincus 5:30 • Asmodeus and the Clam-Eaters vs. Big
ball season. -The Observer 
Bookstore 9 Dogs Landing On My Face 
4:00 -The Morning Missiles over Khomeni, Atassi, 5:30 • One Jerk Too Many vs. A Girl Who's Good Lyons 12 & 3 others...by forfeit With Swords ... 4:00 · Club Cochabamba vs. Activated Sludge 
4:45 -5 Hodgemasters over Grad School by 17
SMC-ND women's lacrosse will practice outside 
Stepan 4 4:45 • Jeff Graduated.. We Might Win Again vs. 
5:30 -Andre's Seven over Don King & 4 Other Sport 4:00 ·Demon Tort Feasers From Hell vs. Rodents The Notre Dame Raf1o
today at 4:15 p.m. Call Kathy at 284-5482 or Maria at x2577 
Promoters by t 8 of Unusual Size 5:30 · Open Loop Shooters vs. Slammin' Vermin
for more information. -The Observer 
The ObseiVer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 unti13 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must
Classifieds 
be prepaid. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for CASH II Hardbound & paperbacks' Cash or Credit available' PANDORA'S BOOK 
808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave.(walking distance lrom campus) ph. 233-2342 
Wordprocesslng-Typing 272-8827 
Photographers needed Amateur;prolesslonal for Australia. National Institute of Exploration June 20-July 13. Cost $3,300 Call Bruce 219-733-2170 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
need nde to M1chigan this wkend, $$, Mike x1723 
FRUSTRATED? Need Money? Part time, 13K-53K year. Now seek1ng h1ghly motivated people for opportuntttes in management and sales. I need help now' Call Phil 219·232-4783 
\ LOST/FOUND 1 
LOST: AEROBIE between SMC 'brare and dining hall on Easter Monday. If found, PLEASE call Patty at 284-4198 or leave at Regina Hall desk. Reward off ered!!!!!!! 
LOST-Black SEIKO watch the Thurs mght before Spring Break, most likely at Bndget's $REWARD$-x1142 
LOST: Pair of keys. FSU and Notre Dame keychains. Call x4025.•if found 
FOUND: Set of keys in room 215 O'Shag. A University of Notre Dame Keychaln­room 309. Call # 3688 to claim. 
LOST:Brown leather jacket at Senior Bar. Keep the jacket if you must, but I need my trout hght key chain and the keys on it and the other stuff in the pockets. PLEASE CALL JULIE at 4929 or 277­3216. REWARD' No questions asked!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
LOST: glasses W>brown case, Wed. Mar. 29, somewhere between NOH, BP. and Holy Cross. Please call Jenny at 1293 it found. 
FOUND:BIFOCALS WITH BLUE FRAMES,OUTSIDE LIBRARY'S FOUN­TAIN & BY CCMB. CALL JOHN X1581 TO CLAIM 
Lost silver nng somewhere on campu It has a personalized inscnption o it. If found please call 283-1584 
Lost: Emerald & diamond ring set in gold. Great sent1mental value. If found please call Kelly # 2758. Reward offered. 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 
219·291· 7153. 
NICE FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. 287-6389, 683-8889. 
MALE GRADUATES FURNISHED ROOMS, AIR, KITCHEN, FRIDGE. 5 MINS. N. CAMPUS. 272­0615. 
HOUSE FOR RENT OVER THE SUMMER-NEAR CAMPUS. 232·3616 
SUMMER LODGING IN SOUTH BEND SUMMER SCHOOL? WORKING HERE? YOU NEED PRIVACY TO STUDY, REST, AND PLAY AT YOUR BEST CHECK OUT A TURTLE CREEK STUDIO CALL JIM AT 272-4788 
HOME Sublet. May 22-Aug.15, Three rooms, alllurnished,225 $ plus uti lilies, near Emporium, call 2882532 
WANTED 

Need two good men,$5.50hr. Part time'Short term. Labor&Lifting Within walking distance to campus. Call 277 • 1997. 
Need ride tO'from Ann Arbor this weekend or next. Will help with gas 4060 
FOR SALE 
BMW R900 Motorcycle. 1976. 6 thousand orig. miles, excellent condition, brown, stock, $2200. 872-7315. 
NEW LONDON LAKE CONDOMINIUM Condo faces pool that's surrounded by a lake stocked with bass. Features 2 large bdrrns, 2 baths, all appliances, 2 car garage & new carpet throughout. Located on Ironwood at Bulla. Close to everything. $77,700. Call Janice Hll­dabrfdle at Cressy & Everett 233-6141 or 233-8883. 
NEED A CAR? '81 SUBARU,FWD,108K $925 OR DECENT OFFER CALL 3554 
For Sale: t way ticket from O'HARE to Portland.OR 5"13 at tO A.M.$175 Call Mary P. at X 4015. 
FORSALE-used motorcycle helmet, 1 yr NolanN33,red,like new,$751J.offer call Markus 256· 7139 
JUNIORS 
JUNIORS 
JUNIORS 
Class of '90 Dog Books are IN! 
Pick yours up in the Class Office 
NOW!!! 
Price is $10. 
CANNONDALE Mtn. Bike, 1 yr. old, ex­ellen! cond., $3751J.o. Craig 283-3014 
TICKETS 
MONEY MONEY MONEY I NEED GRADUATION TIX and I can make it worth your while, call Dan at 3365. 
WE NEED A MIRACLE I!!!! AT LEAST 2 TIX WANTED FOR SHOWS IN LOUIS­VILLE AND CINCINNATI. CALL DAN OR CHRIS AT 4079 OR LEAVE MESSAGE. 
I need Grad.tlx. Will pay high $. Call Chris at 277-6921. 
PERSONALS 
It's hump day, GET it Mike? 
hlag 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN$" CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-1100-343-8373 
ADOPTION-Caring, financially. secure couple of Irish and Swedish ancestry wish to love. cherish. and raise your new­born child. Legal and confidential. Please call Linda and Craig COLLECT: 212-877­3574 
ADOPT: Happily married, professional couple wishes to provide wonderful home, secure future, much love for white newborn. Legal. Expenses paid. Call us collect 212-517-2696. 
FOREIGN STUDENTS Job-Hunting Guide (Rev. 1989). Send $19.95 for the step-by-step guide. lvysoft, PO Box 241090, Memphis, TN 38124 
SCAP .... The Word of the Future!!! Use it NOW!! 
HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS SUM­MER (OR ANYTIME)? Jet there from Chicago Detroit, or Cleveland lor no more than $229, or from the East Coast lor no more than $160 with AIR· HITCH(TM), as reported In Consumer Reports, NY Times, Let's Go, and na­tional network morning shows. For details, call 212-864-2000 or write: AIRHITCH(TM) 2901 Broadway, Suite 100G, NY, NY 10025 .. 
All clubs & organizations must now re­register for the 89·90 academic year. Ap· plications in Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune. Deadline IS April 14. 
'"JUNIORS: HOW TO FILL OUT THE PROFILE FORM.'" PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES. TONIGHT AT 7:00 P.M. ROOM 123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL ALL MAJORS WELCOME. 
'"JUNIORS: HOW TO FILL OUT THE PROFILE FORM.'" PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES. TONIGHT AT 7:00P.M., ROOM 123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL ALL MAJORS WELCOME. 
ARE YOU INTRIGUED BY EXOTIC PLACES. FOREIGN TRAVELS, DIF­FERENT LANGUAGES, TRAINS, BOATS, MAPS, FOREIGN COINS, ETC? If so, then ND and SMC student governments invite you to a FREE Pizza Party WEDNESDAY APRIL 5, 4:30 PM IN THEODORE'S. ANYONE WHO HAS EVER STUDIED ABROAD, OR ANYONE WHO IS GOING NEXT YEAR IS INVITED! Get helpful hints, ask ques­tions, meet others who will be abroad, hear stories about how it will REALLY be! 
HELPII have $259 of travel vouchers on SOUTHWEST airlines.Will sell for . 75 to the dollar or best offer.Call Megan 284· 4006.Voucher good until March, 1990. 
'''..SENIORS'.... SOUTH BEND WHITE SOX FRI APRIL 7 TIX ON SALE MON-THURS 3-5:30 SENIOR CLASS OFFICE $3 .....SENIORS..... 
.....SENIORS..... CHICAGO TRIP WED APRIL 12 TIX ON SALE WED-FRI APR5-7 FROM 3-5PM SENIOR CLASS OFFICE .....SENIORS..... 
SOPHOMORES Applications lor Junior Parents' Weekend Chairperson available In Student Activities. Due Friday, April 7 by 5 pm. 
SOPHOMORES!! TICKETS ON SALE TODAY FOR SPRING FORMAL FROM 3-5 IN THE SOPHOMORE CLASS OFFICE. DON'T MISS IT!! 
SOPHOMORES!! 
, BP ! SPIRIT WEEK ! APRIL 2·8 BP BP BP BP BP BP BP 
SKYDIVING CLASS EVERY WEEKEND DEAN 287-3024 
Interested in starting an on-campus 
geographic club? GEOGRAPHIC CLUB INFORMATION NIGHT Thurs. April 6--Lafortune 6:30 Sarin Room 
JOHN TANSEY FOR FINANCE CLUB PRESIDENT!!!!! JOHN TANSEY­FINANCE CLUB PRES!! WHAT A GUY!!! 
MR.STANFORD IS COMING! 
MR.STANFORD IS COMING! 
MR.STANFORD IS COMING! 
MR.STANFORD IS HEREI!!!!!! TIX AVAILABLE $2 
MR.STANFORD CONTEST SATURDAY APRIL 8th 7:00pm LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
FOR SALE:5 PIRANHA WI TANK,FILTER, PUMP,ETC. CALL JIM 277-9956 
JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS Junior Formal PIGS are in & may be picked up in the Class, Office during regular hours. 
JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS Take me out to the SB White Sox Home Opener. Friday Nile. Tickets $6 in the Junior Class Office. 
The TUTU's are coming! 
Stepan 2, Friday 4:00pm. 
RIDE NEEDED: To Columbus Ohio,(or Ohio St.) Leave 411, return 49. Please call Laura at 284-5245. 
Roses are red. 
Violets are blue, 
Trish. you're 1g now, 
SO GET A CLUE!! 
Love, US 
TRISH STAGER is 19 today, so all you guys out there who DON'T already call her, call at x2844 & wish her 
A HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! 
HOUSE WATCHER reliable single Ph.D student of University of Notre Dame seeks house-watching job In­cluding light housework, e.g. lor those on vacation or whatsoever location near campus better, flexible length of time from 6 months up to 2 yrs call Mr. & Mrs. Crlghton at 219-232-9401 . 
The wonderful thing about tiggers A tig· ger's a wonderful th1ng The tops are made outta rubber The bottoms are made outta springs They're bouncy,trouncy,flouncy, 
pouncy Fun,fun,fun,fun,fun The wonderful thing about tiggers Is I'm the only one! 
Dan B.--Good Luck on your Criminology test. I'm sure you will ace it. And, have fun at the Dead concerts. Don't smol<e too many herbs. 
In case she has not already told you, today is WENDY BUREK'S 2oth BIRTHDAY!! Wish her a happy 20th! I hope you have a great day. Love ya, Elizabeth 
HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY "CHIEF"!! LOVE, "CHAMP" 
Congratulations to LEO TIGHE and the Morrissey B softball team for soundly defeating the Morrissy baseball team Saturday. Way to go 
LEO!!! 
Only THREE MORE DAYS until KERRI OWENS turns 20!!! 
BARBARA BILLINGSLY'S OINTMENT THURSDAY AT MURPHY'S (CHIPS) 10:30-2. 
MURPHY'S MURPHY'S MURPHY'S(CHIPS) BARBARA BIL· LINGSL Y'S OINTMENT THURSDAY 10:30-2 
Today in Z BALLS WEEK: Z Balls & friends call off their search for The Gopher. Last seen at Sr. Bar on Groundhog's Day, The Gopher saw his shadow & disappeared from sight. His whereabouts are unknown, but he's presumably still glued to his shadow. Call Gopher at 3409 & question his status as a vertebrate. He's still missing, so you'll have to leave a message. 
FROM THE WEEKEND GONG RATS ERIN "ET" TIERNEY ON YOUR FIRST TIME ...SINNER"'' 
WE WUV Ul! ALL YOUR ROOMIES. 
RIGHT TO LIFE RIGHT TO LIFE WED APRIL 5, 7:30 
T.V. LOUNGE LAFORTUNE ELECTIONS WILL BE DISCUSSED 
Models needed lor advanced haircut­ling classes. Free haircut and style. Call Coslmo's Shapes and Lines. 277­1875. 
JULIE S. How would you lil<e an ice cream sundae with extra barlanas? -the cherry-man... 
The Mephistophelian Meatuses do it right... 
SCOTT·# 43: Happy 4 yr Anniv! Can't wait to see ya! I LUV U Valeri 
Tim and Linda are not engaged Tim and Linda are not engaged We are sorry for the brutal pimp It was a bad joke. 
I'm an obnoxious drunk and an '"hole, if you're a hot babe, call # 2097 
ATTENTION LADIES! 
Due to remalnln!flnventory from 
last semester, prices have 
been slashed! Act now! 
ROOMATE FOR SALE, 
housebroken. domestic wizard 
FREE or best offer! 
call# 3610 
ANITA, STOP EATING THE WORMS! CHEMISTRY??? 
WENDY BUREK HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! Guess we saved the best for last! We love you! Stupid, 
K.T.. Lizreilly 
Righteous and hip couple, financially se­cure and emotionally stable, looking to adopt a l<id, any kid, to take to the f2St. Ed's Hall Charity Carn~val ft Sunday, April 23 
I AM OTTERL Y OUTRAGED! • a con­cerned citizen 
....................... ...................:.._................
~ 
Chris and Max-
I have to stop com1ng be1ween 
you two! There must be some way 
menage can work. 
-your "significant otter" 
THE ZANY PEPSTER Watch him flex his figure at the cheer· leading tryouts ton1ght! Go ZANY PEPSTER! 
SENIOR FORMAL 
LAST CHANCE TO BUY YOUR BIDS 
TODAY APRIL 5 IN LAFORTUNE FROM 7-9 PM 
~~~~~¢~~~¢~¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢ 
RUSH ST.,DIVISION, 2ND CITY 
COCKTAIL PARTY, DINNER DANCE 
ALL CAN BE YOURS, IF ...... 
YOU BUY YOUR SENIOR FORMAL TICKETS TODAY, APRIL 5TH 7-9PM IN LAFORTUNE 
THIS IS YOUR LAST WARNING 
THIS IS YOUR VERY LAST WARNING 
SENIOR FORMAL BIDS-LAST CHANCE 
ON SALE IN LAFORTUNE 7-9PM 
BIDS ARE 570, RENT TUX 
SET UP TABLE AND ROOMS 
NO BIDS WILL BE SOLD AFTER TODAY APRIL 5. 7-9 IN LAFORTUNE 
eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeen 
SENIORS, THIS IS IT 
IF YOU WANT TO GO TO FORMAL 
AND NEED TO BUY A TICKET 
TODAY IS YOUR LAST CHANCE 
APRIL 5TH, 7-9PM IN LAFORTUNE 
SENIOR FORMAL TICKETS ON SALE 
TODAY 
DO NOT HESITATE, DO NOT PASS GO 
BUY YOUR BID TODAY!!!!!!!!!!!! NO TICKETS WILL BE SOLD LATER 
HEY MR. NICE GUY,U WON THE AWARD 4 BEING REALLY AWESOME! HP .A.LG.CAS.D P.S.HAS NE1 EVER DRIVEN U 
CRAZY? 
I 
I j I 
-
-
' Sports Wednesday 
Wednesday, April 5, 1989 page 10 
Sports Lists NBA Standings NHL Standings 
Eastern Conference Wales Conference Atlantic Division Adams Division w L Pet. GB w L T GF GA Pts.
The $19 Million Lineup 
y-New York 47 25 .653 y-Montreal 53 18 9 315 218 115 Philadelphia 40 31 .563 6.5 x-Boston 37 29 14 289 256 88 Boston 37 34 .521 9.5 x-Buffalo 38 35 7 291 299 83 Washington 34 37 .479 12.5 x-Hartford 37 38 5 299 290 79 
New Jersey 24 49 .329 23.5 Quebec 27 46 7 268 342 61 Charlotte 17 54 .239 29.5 Patrick Division 
Central Division y-Washington 41 29 10 303 259 92 y-Detroit 53 17 .757 x-Pittsburgh 40 33 7 347 349 87 y-Cieveland 52 20 .722 2 x-N.Y. Rangers 37 35 8 310 307 82 Milwaukee 44 26 .629 9 x-Philadelphia 36 36 8 307 285 80 Chicago 44 27 .620 9.5 New Jersey 27 41 12 281 325 66 Atlanta 43 28 .606 10.5 N.Y. Islanders 28 47 5 265 325 61 Indiana 22 49 .310 31.5 
Campbell Conference Western Conference Smythe Dvlslon Midwest Division w L T GF GA Pis 
W L Pet. GB y-Calgary 54 17 9 354 226 117 y-Utah 44 27 .620 x-Los Angeles 42 31 7 376 335 91 Houston 39 32 .549 5 x-Edmonton 38 34 8 325 306 84 Denver 39 32 .549 5 x-Vancouver 33 39 8 251 253 74 Dallas 33 39 .458 11.5 Winnipeg 26 42 12 300 355 64 San Antonio 19 52 .268 25 Norris Division Miami 13 58 .183 31 y-Detroit 34 34 12 313 316 80 
Pacific Division x-St. Louis 33 35 12 275 285 78 y-L.A. Lakers 49 22 .690 x-Minnesota 27 37 16 258 278 70 y-Phoentx 46 26 .639 3.5 x-Chicago 27 41 12 297 335 66 Golden State 40 32 .556 9.5 Toronto 28 46 6 259 342 62 
Seattle 39 32 .549 10 x-clinched playoff berth 
Portland 33 38 .465 16 y-clinched division title 
Sacramento 22 49 .310 27 
L.A. Clippers 17 54 .239 32 
y-clinched playoff berth 
Wednesday's Games 
NHL Playoffs 
Philadelphia at Atlanta Utah at Phoenix 
NHL PLAYOFF DATES Division semifinals
Sports Calendar Wednesday 
Wednesday · Philadelphia at Washington 
Baseball vs. ILLINOIS-CHICAGO (2), 4 p.m. New York Rangers at Pittsburgh 
Softball at St. Francis 
Hartford at Montrr3al American League Buffalo at Boston
National League Tuesday's Results Thursday
East
East Chicago 5, Philadelphta 4 Chicago at Detroit
w L Pet. GB No sports scheduled. 
w L Pet. GB Montreal 6, Pittsburgh 5 
Chicago 1 1.000 Baltimore 1 0 1.000 Minnesota at St. Louis
0 Houston 10, Atlanta 3
Cleveland 0 1.000 
Montreal 0 1.000 San Francisco at San Diego (late) Friday Vancouver at Calgary
New Vorl< 0 1.000 
New Vorl< 1 0 1.000 1.000 Chicago 9, California 2 Softball at MCC tournament in Indianapolis 
0 .0 toronto 1 0 Edmonton at Los Angeles
Philadelphia 1 Boston 0 .0 Texas 4, Detroit 0 Women's tennis vs. OHIO STATE Pittsburgh 0 .0 
.0 New York 4, Minnesota 2 St. Louis 0 .0 
Detroit 0 
West Milwaukee 0 .0 Saturday Thursday West Wednesday's Games 
Lacrosse vs. KENYON Philadelphia at Washington Cincinnati 0 1.000 Baseball at Xavier (2)
Chicago 0 1.000 New York Rangers. at Pittsburgh
1 1.000 St. Louis at New York Seattle at Oakland
Houston 0 Oakland 0 1.000 Women's golf at Indiana Invitational 
San Francisco 1 0 1.000 San Francisco at San Diego Boston at Baltimore Hartford at Montreal
texas 1 0 1.000 Softball at MCC tournament 
Atlanta 0 1 .0 Pittsburgh at Montreal Milwaukee at Cleveland 
Calilornia 0 1 .0 Women's track at Manchester Relays in Buffalo at Boston
Los Angeles 0 1 .0 Philadelphta at Chicago New York at Mtnnesota San Diego 0 1 .0 Kansas City 0 1 . 0 Los Angeles at Cincinnalt Toronto at Kansas City Manchester. Ind . Chicago at Detroit
Minnesota 0 1 .0 
Atlanta at Houston Chicago at California 
Seattle 0 1 .0 Minnesota at St. Louis
SundayIrish Baseball Women's tennis at Michigan State Vancouver at Calgary
Scoreboard 
Baseball at Xavier (2) Edmonton at Los Angeles BATTER GP AB R H 2B 3B HR RBI BA Men's golf at Indianapolis Invitational
Baseball (15-5)
James Sass, OF 20 61 10 24 4 2 2 29 .393 Softball at MCC tournament
Notre Dame 7, Chicago State 1 
Saturday
Dan Peltier, OF 20 75 23 29 10 1 3 19 .387 Women's golf at Indiana Invitational
Notre Dame 1 . St. Louis 0 
Paul Lange, DH 5 3 3 1 0 0 0 2 .333 Washington at Philadelphia
Notre Dame 6, St. Louis 2 Jason Martinez, DH 12 24 4 8 3 0 1 5 .333 
Monday Montreal at Hartford Pat Pesavento, SS 20 73 31 22 2 0 0 5 .301 Lacrosse (4-3) No sports scheduled. 
Boston at Buffalo 
Notre Dame 10, Air Force 7 
Joe Binkiewicz, 1 B 18 49 8 14 4 0 0 11 .286 Calgary at Vancouver
Notre Dame 8, Wooster 7 TuesdayEd Lund. C 20 67 12 18 3 0 2 15 .269 
Softball vs. Saint Mary's College Pittsburgh at New York Rangers Mike Moshier. 2B 19 42 3 10 0 0 0 7 .238 
Softball (11-9) Detroit at Chicago
Craig Counsell, OF 16 39 12 9 2 0 0 9 .231 
Notre Dame 2, Detroit 0 
Pat Eilers, OF 18 28 7 6 3 0 0 5 .214 St. Louis at Minnesota
Detroit 6. Notre Dame 5 (called after six inn.) 
NCAA Tournament
Notre Dame 5. Loyola 1 Los Angeles at Edmonton Frank Jacobs, DH 19 52 9 11 2 0 1 14 .212 
Notre Dame 12, Loyola 2 Cory Mee, 2B 11 19 3 4 0 0 0 1 .211 
Wisconsin-Green-Bay 2, Notre Dame 0 TOURNAMENT MVPs Mike Coss, 3B 18 50 9 10 2 0 0 3 .200 Sunday
Wisconsin-Green Bay 6, Notre Dame 5 1989--Glen Rice, MichiganMike Rotkis, DH 10 11 1 2 0 0 0 1 .182 Washington at Philadelphia 
Jon Baker 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 1988--Danny Manning, Kansas
Women's golf Montreal at Hartford Notre Dame finished third at the University 1987--Keith Smart, Indiana 
Boston at Buffalo
0 0 0 0 0 .000
Tom Murray 1 0 of Indianapolis Invitational with a score of 1986--Pervis Ellison, Louisville
Matt Krall, DH 7 9 0 0 0 0 1 .000 Pittsburgh at New York Rangers 
Tom Allen, OF 7 10 0 0 0 0 1 .000 371. 1985--Ed Pinckney, Villanova 
Los Angeles at Edmonton Men's golf 1984--Patrick Ewing, Georgetown Detroit at Chicago
NOTRE DAME 20 613 140 168 35 3 9 128 .274 
Notre Dame placed seventh out of a seven­1983--Akeem Olajuwon, Houston 
OPPONENTS 20 594 93 164 30 6 2 79 .276 St. Louis at Minnesota
team field at the Purdue Invitational with a 
1982--James Worthy, North 
score of 639 for the 36-hole tournament. Calgary at Vancouver Left on base: Notre Dame 155, Opponents Carolina 
132 Men's track 1981--lsiah Thomas, Indiana Notre Dame won 11 out of a possible 16 
1980--Darrell Griffith, Louisville
PITCHER GP GS IP H BB so ER W-L ERA 
events in a non-scoring meet against Geor­Division finals
Brian Piotrowicz 7 6 37.7 39 16 19 8 3-2 1.91 1979--Earvin Johnson, Michigan
getown.
Mike Colley 12 0 22.7 20 11 17 6 2-0 2.38 Monday, April 17-Sunday, April 30
State 
Tom Gulka 3 0 5.0 9 2 2 2 0-0 3.60 
Women's track 
1978--Jack Givens, Kentucky
Erik Madsen 8 6 32.7 36 14 24 15 4-1 4.13 
Notre Dame competed at the non-scoring Conference finals 
Tony Livorsi 9 0 15.3 16 4 6 8 1-0 4.70 1977--Butch Lee, Marquette
Purdue Invitational. Mike Passilla 5 4 16.3 16 6 7 9 2-1 4.96 1976--Kent Benson, Indiana Brian Conway 4 3 16.0 15 7 12 9 2-1 5.06 
Men's tennis (15-9) 1975---Richard Washington, UCLA Monday, May 1-Sunday, May 14
Joe Binkiewicz 2 0 1.3 6 0 0 1 0-0 6.75 
Ball State 7, Notre Dame 2 
Dan Marzec 3 1 9.0 13 5 6 7 1-0 7.00 1974--David Thompson, N.C. 
Women's tennis (12-4) State Stanley Cup finals 
NOTRE DAME 20 20 156.0 164 65 93 65 15-5 3.75 
Notre Dame 5, SIU-Edwardsville 2 1973--Bill Walton, UCLA Wednesday, May 17-Tuesday,
OPPONENTS 20 20 1159.0168 121 116 112 5-15 6.34 
Notre Dame 8, Eastern Michigan 1 
1972--Bill Walton, UCLA May 30 Saves: Notre Dame 7 (Colley 5, Gulka, Livorsi). Opponents 0 
-

BOB 
CARRON'S BIRTHDAY WAS 2 DAYS AGO, YET 
HE IS STILL
-
DRINKING. 
HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY FROM THE GENTLEMEN OF 
SECTION BA 




----~---------~-~-~-------------------­
Wednesday, April 5, 1989 The Observer page 11 
Dawson homers, Williams saves as Cubs win 
I Associated Press doubled with one out in the I seventh. CHICAGO--Andre Dawson Reuss' batterymate, 41-year­l 
j
had a two-run homer and Mitch old Carlton Fisk, chipped in Williams struck out the side in with a solo homer and a single lthe ninth after loading the as the two became the oldest bases with none out as the battery ever to team up for an I Chicago Cubs beat Philadel­opening day game in the j 
j
phia 5-4 Tuesday, spoiling Nick majors. 
I
Leyva's managerial debut. Previously, the oldest 
I
Dawson's homer, the 299th of opening day battery was 
l
his career, came in the fourth Johnny Niggeling and Rick 
I
inning off loser Floyd Youmans Ferrell, a combined 79 years j after Ryne Sandberg had old when they played for the I opened the inning with a Washington Senators in 1944. I double. California starter Mike Witt 
Rick Sutcliffe went 5 2-3 in­took the loss. nings, allowing three runs on Yankees 4, Twins 2 five hits, walking three and striking out four and contribu­ting two singles that led to runs. Tommy John allowed two 
Williams, who came on in the runs in seven innings and eighth after Mike Schmidt's Roberto Kelly went 4-for-4 with 543rd homer cut it to 5-4, went a home run in the season 1 2-3 innings. He gave up three opener Tuesday night as New straight hits to load the bases York beat the Minnesota Twins in the ninth, but struck out 4-2 at Minneapolis in Dallas Mike Schmidt, Chris James and Green's managerial debut with Mark Ryal for his first National the Yankees. cy Young winner. Dale Mohor­San Diego signed Hurst to a the Pittsburgh Pirates in League save. John, at 45 the majors' oldest cic pitched the last two innings three-year contract last Montreal. 
Chisox 9, Angels 2 player, tied a major league for the save, allowing no hits. December worth $5.25 million. The Expos had tied the game record when he opened his 26th Giants 8, Padres 3 on Damaso Garcia's bases­major league season. Deacon Downs held the Padres to six loaded single with two outs in 
Jerry Reuss held California McGuire also played for 26 hits, three walks with six the ninth. Robinson then to two hits and no walks for seasons (1884-1912). Bruce Hurst was shelled in strikeouts in making his first walked Raines on a 3-2 pitch to seven innings Tuesday as Kelly drove in the tying run his San Diego debut Tuesday start since missing the final six force in the winning run. Chicago opened the season with and scored the winner in the night, yielding consecutive weeks last season with a Andy McGaffigan pitched 1 a 9-2 victory over the Angels in fifth off loser Frank Viola. In home runs to Will Clark and shoulder injury. He improved 2-3 innings of relief to pick upJeff Torborg's debut as the ninth, Kelly homered off Kevin Mitchell in a six-run, his lifetime record against San the win. manager of the White Sox at Juan Berenguer to make it 4-2. third inning as the San Fran­Diego to 5-0, including two Robinson, who took the loss, Anaheim, Calif. John's 287th career victory cisco Giants beat the Padres 8-3 shutouts in 1987. gave up four hits and three runs 
It was also Doug Rader's moved him past Robin Roberts at San Diego. Expos 6, Pirates 5 in 1 2-3 innings. He also walked first game as manager of the into 20th place on the all-time Hurst, 18-6 for the Boston Red four. Angels. list. A non-roster spring train­Sox last season, pitched five in­Rangers 4, Tigers 0 
ing invitee. John allowed 10 nings and allowed eight runs Jeff Robinson walked Tim Reuss, who turns 40 on June hits, walked two, struck out and 10 hits. Kelly Downs Raines with the bases loaded 19, allowed only a first-inning three and escaped twice from pitched seven scoreless innings in the ninth inning Tuesday, Knuckleballer Charlie Hough homer to Devon White, then bases-loaded situations in for the victory and was relieved giving the Montreal Expos a pitched a five-hitter and Scott retired 17 straight before White beating Viola, last year's AL by Joe Price. season-opening 6-5 victory over Fletcher drove in three runs.­
I 
I 


I 
I 
Students, The Student Union Board regrets to inform you that Gene Siskel's father has recently passed away. Due • to this unfortunate circumstance, Thursday night's 
!lecture, to be given by Gene Siskel, has beenipostponed indefinitely. We will make every effort to I re-schedule this lecture. In the meantime, tickets can. 
Associated Press The NFL draft gained two blue-chip players and a touch  rupt college programs or players' educational opportuni­ties," said NFL spokesman Joe  mission because he plans to graduate this summer. The 5-foot-9, 183 pound  
of intrigue Tuesday when Uni­ Browne.  Sanders, who broke or tied 24  
versity of Miami quarterback  "But  when  an  underclas­ NCAA records last year while  
Steve Walsh announced his in­ sman whose program is under  rushing for 39 touchdowns and  
tention  to  turn  pro  and  the  NCAA sanctions decides to turn  2,628 yards, is far more aware  
league granted  admission  to  pro with the full support of his  of his status. As it stands now,  
Reisman Trophy winner Barry  college  coach  and  athletic  the Detroit Lions, who choose  
Sanders.  .  director and when he has lost  third, are desperate for speed  
Sanders, who threatened to  any remaining college football  and are likely to take him.  
go to court if necessary to enter  eligibility in the process,  we  Walsh, on the other hand, is  
the  NFL,  learned  that  he  have no realistic choice but to  ranked  with  Washington  
wouldn't  have  to.  The  NFL  accept him."  State's Timm Rosenbach--an­ 
granted his request to enter the  Half an hour later, Walsh an­ other junior who  may go  in  
•••·~!:J The Observer I Rob Aegovich University of Miami quarterback Steve Walsh has announced his in­tention to leave the Hurricanes and become eligible for this month's NFL draft. Walsh's decision comes right after Heisman Trophy winner Barry Sanders made a similar announcement.  April 23 draft because his school, Oklahoma State, is on NCAA probation and because coach Pat Jones and athletic director Myron Roderick sup­port him. "We've always believe it best for both professional and col­lege football that the NFL's eligibility rules not work to dis­ nounced he would give up his final year of eligibility, but he didn't specify whether he would petition for the regular draft or one of the two supplementals--either in Au­gust or September. Walsh, considered the second or third best quarterback avail­able. doesn't need league per- either the regular or supple­mental drafts--one level below UCLA's Troy Aikman. Aikman was considered a cinch to be taken by the Dallas Cowboys, who choose first, un­til the team was purchased in February by Jerry Jones. Jones named Walsh's college coach to replace Tom Landry.  

page 12 The Observer Wednesday, April 5, 1989 
NFL draft pool grows by two 
Walsh to leave 'Canes, Sanders' entry becomes official 
Jim-Bob Dadiots and 4 Other 
Jim-Bob Dadiots. I M FREE SCHOLARSHIP INFORMATION FOR
FRESHMEN & SOPHOMORES ~ 
On the Bookstore courts, Dig­1 STUDENTS WHO NEED
I ~ 
ger Stifed Me a Tip at Coach's ··· DEPARTMENT ;~took out its aggressions on the 
Vermin Cong II with a 21-10 vic­I PRESENTATIONS ! MONEY FOR COLLEGE 
tory. The most vehement mem­!Ia Wednesday 45 I.:~ Every Student is Eligible for Some Type of ber of Diiger stifed Me a Tip at II 4:30-5:30 • Financial Aid Regardless of Grades or Parental Income. Coach's was Scott Miller, who ~ ~ 
• We have a data bank of over 200,000 listings of scholarships,
~ Classical & Oriental 215 O'Shaughr;assy ~ 
scored seven baskets. fellowships, grants, and loans. representing over $10 billion in private sector funding. 
i Languages ~ 
• Many scholarships are given to students based on their academic
In one of the most shocking 
interests, career plans, family heritage and place of residence. contests of the day, Ted Bundy • There's money available for students who have been newspaper car­and The Electrics burned The 
I English 215 O'Shaughrwssy j riers, grocery clerks, cheerleaders, non-smokers ...etc. 
• Results GUARANTEED. 
Money Men 21-19. Steve Poliask led the attack with 
~ Communicalion O'Shaughnessy LofJ CALL For A Free Brochure • •] 
seven baskets to lead his team 
~,, & Theatre ANYTIME ( 800) 346-6401 ti 
to the reduced field of 602. 
~~~-~~..::~te.<;>aX>.aX>.at:<»C<'>!W:.'~}M(­
L-------------------~-~ 
Pre-Law Society 
Spring General Meeting 
Wednesday/ April 5th 
7:00pm 
in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Presentation to be given will be focused towards Seniors-to-be. However, all are encouraged to attend. 

Bookstore 
continued from page 16 
tures and Duggar and Guys Who've Slept with Duggar. Despite being down 20-16 in the contest, Duggar and Guys Who've Slept with Duggar (origin of team name un­known) woke up to defeat their foe in overtime, 23-21. 
Day two also provided an­other candidate for the Hoosier award. John Roache, member of the Mr. Coffee and the Non­Dairy Creamers, went 0-of-15 from the field. His squad could not overcome his shooting per­formance and lost 21-7 to One 

Happy 21st 
Daniel Brennen 
(D-Stone) 
Love, 
Jennifer and Colleen 
(HAiHAi) 
~:X'C(~~:~~~;•r~ATTENJ.i{)N :BJJIC<tlWK:~:.-;i 

r---------------------, 


---~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, April 5, 1989 The Observer page 13 
THE RILEY PRIZE IN One PR man's experiences with the 
During Global Financial Crisis 
ART HISTORY AND ln£~der Trading Schedule and the 
CRITICISMStock Market Crash of '87 
SUBMISSIONS FOR THE RILEY PRIZE IN ART HISTORY
presented by 
AND CRITICISM ARE INVITED FROM ALL NOTRE DAME GRADUATE AND
Mr. Robert Marquis, Notre Dame '66 
UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS.
Director, Princeton Public Relations Group 
ESSAYS MUST TREAT A TOPIC IN 
ART HISTORY OR CRITICISM. ONLY 
TOPICS DEALING WITH THE VISUAL 
ARTS ARE ELIGIBLE. THE PRIZE
THURSDAY APRIL 6, 1989 
CARRIES A CASH AWARD OF $300. RULES MAY BE OBTAINED IN 132
7:00PM LAFORTUNE LITTLE THEATRE 
O'SHAUGHNESSY.
Reception to follow 
ENTRIES ARE DUE IN 132 Sponsored by Student Alumni Relations Group 
O'SHAUGHNESSY BY and ND Alumni Association 
4:30PM ON FRIDAY, APRIL 14. 
Flames 
continued from pa~e 16 
with St. Louis in which the wea­
ther conditions were poor and 
the offense was sluggish. 
"Let's not overplay the wea­ther," said Murphy. "The wea­ther conditions played a part, but we were not swinging the bat. We've got to improve in that area if we want to be a good team." 
Notre Dame swept St. Louis in a doubleheader last Satur­day 1-0, 6-2, and last Sunday's scheduled doubleheader was rained out. 
In the first game, Erik Mad­
sen pitched the shutout to im­
prove his record to 4-1, going 
the distance by allowing two 
hits and two walks while strik­
ing out eight. 
Madsen was a master of con­
trol, falling behind in the count 
only twice against 24 hitters. 
Join The Observer 
······ ······
• • rt\S •• 
...... ~--ese~.. ·····.
• • • • • ....t'c:! J. ,. •••• 
. Gune~: .~ ........ 
....····· 
Senior Formal Tuxedos 
•.. 
• 20% off Classic Styles 
(Tropic Formals) 
• 1st Choice 
Guaranteed 
(on orders placed by April 1st) 
• 
Orders taken;at Lafortune April 5th 

• 
Convenient pick-up at 

• 
NO DEPOSIT REQUIRED 


One man tells another, it's 
·t~'rtS
gt
123 W. Washington Street South Bend, Indiana 46601 
Distinguishea Alumni Lecture Series 
Wall Street PubliC Relations 
He had 20 first-pitch strikes. 
"I was very pleased with Erik Madsen," said Murphy. "He pitched like he can. Whe­ther it was a good day or bad 
day,  he  was  shutting  them  
out."  
In  the  second  game,  Mike  

Passilla picked up the victory despite lack of control, raising his record to 2-1. Passilla was pulled after 3 2-3 innings, having walked three in a game in which runs at that point were scarce. 
The provider of offense over the weekend continued to be James Sass, who picked up both game-winning RBI and raised his average to .393. Sass has picked up the gamewinning RBI in each of Notre Dame's last four wins. In his last six games, Sass is 11-for-21 (.520) with 18 RBI. His batting average and 29 RBI both are tops on the squad. 

Store Hours: 
. 
~-tun. & Thurs.: 9:00 to 8:00 T•J~~ .. \~\:d .. & Fri.: 9:00 to 5:30 Sat. -9:00 to 5:00 · 
::::::::=~to~c~o:m~e~at~t~h=e~b;e~g:in~n~in~g~o:f~t~hei 
Frustration over for Piotrowicz 
Junior pitcher finding success under Murphy's direction 

By STEVE MEGARGEE Associate Sports Editor 
When Brian Piotrowicz decided to attend Notre Dame from nearby North Liberty, in­d., he knew the baseball pro­gram was going through a rough stretch. 
As his freshman season progressed, he realized just how bad the situation had be­come. Despite recording a team-leading earned run average of 4.26 and earning a win over Tulane, he ended the year with a 2-7 record. The Irish averaged just 2.4 runs per game when Piotrowicz was on the mound. 
"It was frustrating to say the least," said the righthander. "The most frustrating thing was that I felt I had pitched well. I was capable of having a big year, but things didn't fall into place." 
That season was frustrating to many people associated with Notre Dame baseball. The Irish posted a 15-29 record that included a 6-17 mark in games .. 
decided by one or two runs or in extra innings. 
"The program's always had a lot of walk-ons, and for some people, I don't know if it was more of a deal to just be on the team or on a team that wants to win," said Piotrowicz, who was coming from a highly suc­cessful baseball program at South Bend Washington High School. 
Things have gotten much bet­ter for the team with Pat Murphy as coach the last two seasons. Piotrowicz has been a leader in Notre Dame's resur­gence, which started with last year's 39-22 record and has con­tinued with appearances in na­tional polls this year. 
"(Murphy) knows baseball, and he knows pitching," said Piotrowicz. "He knows the pitchers, and he doesn't make anybody try to do what they're not capable of." 
Piotrowicz actually dropped his first three decisions his sophomore year. 
"Everyone goes through a period of a season that he's not up to the top of his game," said Murphy. "For him, it happened 
. ~: I had great defense behind 
d;:;E~~~~:~.~~:~~~~~ 
a 3-2 record with a team­leading 1.91 ERA. He still knowsheneedstoworkoncon-
The Observer I File Photo 
With a sparkling earned run aver~~e of 1.91, junior Brian Piotrowicz holds a 3-2 record so far this season. 1-'iotrowicz graduated from Wash­
ington High School in South Bend. 
year. I just told him to keep working hard and not to worry about results, that he'd see at the end that everything works out." 
Everything certainly did work out for Piotrowicz, and that can clearly be seen in the results of his sophomore season. Mter those three early losses, Piotrowicz won his final seven decisions. That included a 2-0 no-hitter of Ball State late· in the regular season. 
"I'd had like seven one-hitters, but I'd never gotten that final no-hitter before," said the 6-1, 175-pounder. 
"Before the game, I had probably my worst bullpen (practice) ever. When I got to the game, everything clicked, trol, which has been a problem for him throughout his college career. 
"Being a sinkerbalvslider pitcher, I shouldn't really have more than 10 walks a year," said Piotrowicz, who walked 32 batters his freshman year, 24 more last season and 16 this year. "I overthrow a lot. When I don't overthrow and just let the sinkerball sink, stay on top of my slider and have control of my changeup, the games have shown that nobody's been able to hit me." 
That's exactly what hap­pened during last week's 7-1 win over Chicago State. Piotrowicz struck out 10 bat­ters and allowed only four hits to earn the victory. 
"He probably had his best stuff then," said junior catcher Ed Lund. "He's been consistent all year, and he's thrown strikes. He's one of our hardest working pitchers, and it's started to pay off." 
r--------------------­
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, April 5, 1989 
----~---~-~­

Jake 
continued from page 16 
playing conditions at Jake Kline Field are suitable. Assis­tant coach Fred Petersen as­signs six players each game to serve various maintenance duties. 
"Everyone likes playing on that field because we all work on it and help keep it nice,'' said junior catcher Ed Lund. 
Since Pat Murphy took the Notre Dame coaching job in the fall of 1987, he has made several improvements on the field. Jake Kline Field now has new tarps for the fence, inter-
Think of your best friend. 
Now, think of your best friend dead. 
Doo't drive drunk. 
Reader's Digest 
Shannon 
Amsterdam 
Frankfurt 
Paris Scheduied carriers! Book anyti/Tlel Abolle lares'I' Round:rrip from Chicago. Some restrictions apply. On-lh~wot r<Oipasses. lnl'l Student f. D.. youth hostel passes, oor~ and study abroad programs FREF. Student Tra\'>1 Catalog. 
29 E. Delaw.ue Pl. Chicago, IL 6C611 
...___ 312·951-0585 _____. 
woven slats spelling out Jake 
Kline Field, artificial turf for the coaching boxes and bullpen and a painted scoreboard. 
"I want to keep Jake Kline Field, and I hope it doesn't be­come the site of some future construction," said Murphy. "It's an ideal location, and it's one of the best playing surfaces in the Midwest." 
King Gretzky will face Oilers 
Associated Press 
The great Gretzky gamble is starting to pay off for the NHL with a first-round series be­tween Wayne Gretzky and the Los Angeles Kings and his former team, the Edmonton Oilers. 
After playing 80 games to eliminate five of the league's 21 teams, the NHL playoffs begin Wednesday night with eight games, including the matchup at the Forum in In­glewood, Calif. between Gretzky and the Los Angeles Kings and his former employers, the Edmonton Oilers. 
But if that intrigues the league office and the public, it means little to Gretzky and his teammates unless it cul­minates three series down the road with a Stanley Cup, which will be rewarded sometime around Memorial Day. 
"The only thing I look at is winning championships," said Gretzky, who played on four Stanley Cup winners in Edmon­ton. "I never looked at that as anything other than my job." 
While Gretzky and his mates take on the Oilers Wednesday and Thursday nights, 14 other teams begin the rigorous schedule of four games in five 
-------&.~Y=-'-' --­
-Ih-e-0-bse.~~r-­
is looking for motivated Saint Mary's students interested in serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community in the following paid positions: 
·Saint Mary's Editor Asst. Saint Mary's Editor 
Responsible for daily coverage of Saint Mary's events and coordinating Observer staff there Newspaper experience helpful but not required Must commit time to work in Observer offices in Haggar College Center and Lafortune 
For more information please contact Chris Donnelly or Regis Coccia at 239-5303 by Friday, April 7 
Ill 
ALUMNI 
SENIOR 
~!:CLUB 
It's 
WEDNESDAY. .. 
Come Cross the Border (there is not much time left FOLKS!) 
FRIDAY LUNCH NOON-2:00 FRIDAY NIGHT LIVE TUNES WI BARBARA BILLINGSLY 
nights with which each series opens. 
The most intriguing of the other matchups features the first playoff appearance of Pit­tsburgh's Mario Lemieux, who has supplanted Gretzky as the NHL's top scorer--he had 85 goals and 199 points this season. 
He and the Penguins will be at home against the New York Rangers, who lost 14 of their final17 games after leading the Patrick Division much of the year and will be coached by general manager Phil Esposito, who fired Michel Ber­geron two games before the regular season ended. 
In other series, it will be Philadelphia at Washington; Hartford at Montreal; Buffalo at Boston; Chicago at Detroit; Minnesota at St. Louis and , Vancouver at Calgary. All will be repeated Thursday night before switching to the other cities for games on Saturday and Sunday. 
Gretzky's acquisition by Los Angeles Aug. 9 led to a marked change in the Smythe Division standings. 
Instead of finishing their usual fourth or fifth the Kings were second at 42-31-7 to 38-34-8 for third-place Edmonton, the Oilers' lowest finish since 1980­
81. Still, the Kings were 26 points behind Calgary, oest in the league. 
HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY, CINDY 
We Oove you Oats! 
Mom, Dad, Dan, Erin and Sean 
ATTENTION ALL GRADUATING STUDENTS 
Measurements will be taken for 
Caps and Gowns 
Tuesday Apri I 4, 1989 Wednesday April 5, 1989 
Between 9:00 -4:00 at the 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Wednesday, April 5, 1989 The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 
4 p.m. ND Baseball vs. University of Illinois (Chicago). ACROSS 28 Ex-coach 50 Ditty syllable 7 p.m. Career and Placement Services workshop, "Juniors: Parseghian 
51 End of the quip 1 Bridge coup 
How to Fill Out the Profile Form," by Paul Reynolds. 30 Symbols of 
5Dear-. so Accepted
poverty · 
advice column 
8 p.m. Pax Christi Meeting, C.S.C. 34 Fit out again 61 ATumer 9 Babble 
62 Legal wrong 14 Rug surface 35 Lifting device 
37 Dernier-63 Smile smugly LECTURE CIRCUIT 15-avis 
38 More of the quip 64 So be It 16 Much-used pet 
41 The way, in 
65 Material for anname 
China
Noon "Paternalism and Partial Autonomy," O'Nora O'Neill. idol's feet?
17 Pub quaffs 
42 Is overly fond 18 Kind of exam 
Law School Courtroom. 66 Cathedral parts 
43 Goes on a losing 
67 Cozy place19 "I do" site spree? 
12:30 p.m. "Institutions and Labor Mobility in Britain, 20 Start of a quip 44 Sicilian resort 68 Abhor France, Italy and West Germany," by David Marsden, Lon­
231mportant O.R. 46 Practical joker 
don School of Economics, Room 131 Decio. group Eulenspiegel 
DOWN 
24 Female ruff 47 Jittery 25 Not liquid 48 Actress Joanne 1 Bandy words 
12:30 p.m. ND Dept. of Economics Labor Workshop, Frank 2 Caron role 
Wilkinson, Cambridge University, Room 131 Decio. 3 Anchovy sauce 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 4 Interlock 
3:30 p.m. "Interficial Phenomena: Liquids Spreading ·on 5 "Don't Get­
Solids," Dr. Elizabeth Dussan, Schlumberger Corporation. 
Much Anymore" Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 
6 Poets 7 Toot one's own 
horn Anscombe, Professor Emeritus of Philosophy, Cambridge 
8 Where G.RF. 25 Four-door 34 Deserve 52 Pack down University, Room 122 Hayes-Healy. studied law vehicle 35 Metropolis 53 Takes to the 9 Stage 26 Hunter in the 36 Make beloved slopes heavens 
4:15 p.m. "Is Abortion Always Murder?" Elizabeth "':+.-=+:'+=! 10 Hair curler 39 Still abed 54 Panache 
4:45p.m. "Le Cose Milanesi" by Randy Coleman, Room 715 27 Actress Ullmann 40 Kind of type or 55 Identical11 Against
Hesburgh Library. 28 U.S.S.R. 
horn 56 Engrave with 12 Deck wood workers' 45 Stick acidcooperative13 Bronte's Jane 47 AWOL student 57 V Lopez theme 29 Sun's output 
MENUS 
~:+-+=-! 21 Very cold 49 Grades song
31 Yearns -=+::-+:-+.':'! 22 Middle East 32 Fireplace fixture so Musical sounds 58 Mild oath native 33 Poses 51"-girl!" 59 Eye problem
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Thin Steak Sandwich Italian Style Veal Pasta Bar Chicken Chimichangas Grilled Sole Calico Skillet Chix Fried Steak-Gravy Deli Bar 

COMICS 
BLOOM COUNTY 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
tbW, S\.lSIE GOT SENT m 
1\IE PRINCIPALS CfRC'E. 1 
9\E.S IN ll<oUB\.E NOI( 
P..U. RIGt\T.' 
X. W\\£.W'tol* I SUR£ Wt>s LUC.~'( "'""£ IEf>..CI-\tR B~ 9JSIE ffiR 8J£R'ffiiiNG. 
'ffi-IAT f... ER9-K ! 
CM. NO~ 'f\1\-tfl,T IF SUSIE RATS ON ME Y' S\.l~ TI-IE.'i W\'1<(£ ~ER Sl~ .' SUPPOSE S\-1£ ~UEALS .' SUPPD~ ~£ FING~ ~E.! 
,-----=:-' \.\j \ 
0-......._, 
BERKE BREATHED THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

BILL WA HERSON 
0\.\,~ts. W~''l!;: 
GOT Q\l\"lt A. 
FILE ONOJR 
FRI£NP CAI..I.JIN. 
"Hey, Zoran! What's happenin'?! ... Give me six!" 
American Values IAmerican Film 
Discussion with 
Gene Siskel 
on Thursday has b~en cancelled. Refunds available at LaFortune Information Desk Possible rescheduling to be announced 
,..----~--------~·-----~ ·---~---~------~ -~-----~---­
I 
l 
Sports
page 16 Wednesday, April 5, 1989 
Having to weather the storm 
Bookstore f1eld goes down to 602 in tourney's 2nd day 
By BOB MITCHELL blistering 68 percent from the Say Maybe became Charles Sports Writer field at the Lyons courts. Paul Thompson, One Guy and Three Pasin led the charge with an No Shows. The two-man team 
The skies parted for the 8-of-11 shooting display. The 6-8 of Lt. Edward Ohlson and second day of Bookstore XVIII, Pasin also snatched four Derek Mohr attempted to quite but Mother Nature would not rebounds. the Slow Train Corning with a let 15 of the 30 competing teams Club member Chris Travers, box-and-one defense. Despite go horne without an excuse. who bettered the team average the defensive strategy, the duo The infamous South Bend wind with a 4-of-6 shooting exhibi­could not get out of the way in reared its force just in time for tion, said his team's strength time, losing 21-3. the start of the day's action. inside helped it deal with the "It didn't feel good to play 
According to Jeff Heilert, the weather. two-on-five," said Ohlson. "I 
assistant cornrnisioner in "Our inside game was impor­felt we had to play anyway. We charge of playing equipment, tant," said Travers. "We only just wanted to score some bas­noted that the wind devasted had five or six buckets from the kets and stop there fast break. the quality of play and other outside. The wind wasn't a fac­Less adverse conditions may things as well. tor in our game." have helped our cause." 
"In addition to jackets and Crime Doesn't Pay is a team Only three teams forfeited sweats being blown all over the that could only blame the wind their games, including We Only place at Stepan, three balls after shooting a combined 4-of-Wanted To Win Just One, which being used at the Lyons Courts 53. Led by Paul Davis' 0-11 evidently did not want to win ended up going into St. Mary's shooting spree, Crime Doesn't too badly. Lake," said Heilert. Pay fell 21-4 to 4 Guys Who The best rnatchup of the day 
One team that thrived iri the You'd Like to Know 2 Hoosiers. was between the Denison of the blustery conditions was The The valiant effort of the day Deep and Other Slimy Crea-Cotton Club. The Club shot the carne when Charles Thompson 
see BOOKSTORE 1 page 12 Rain and wind came just in time to interfere with most of Tuesday's
day's Bookstore best with a and Four Other Guys Who Just 
Bookstore Basketball action. The field narrowed to 602 teams as the 
Women's _fenci~g Irish baseb~OITh"~;ti~gm·j",j:':Chicago
pIaces 3rd In natI 0 n 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO we are, we know our strengths play a tremendously tough Special to The Observer (Portland,Ore.) was 8-4, Sports Writer and weaknesses, and we work schedule." 
The University of Notre sophomore Lynn Kadri to improve every day." The Flames are led by soph-Darne women's fencing (Chatham, NJ) was 2-8 and The Notre Dame men's The Illinois-Chicago Flames ornore Bret Davis, a team finished third in the senior Brenda Leiser baseball team, ranked 16th in bring a 4-11 record into South starterkeliever with a 3.21 NCAA national finals Mon-(Portland, Ore.) finished at the latest Sporting News na-Bend, but, as usual, Pat ERA, three saves and one com-day at Evanston, Ill., after 0-2. tional poll, will face Illinois-Murphy is not taking them plete game. He most likely will just missing a shot at the na-Wayne State successfully Chicago in a doubleheader at 2 lightly. appear as a reliever against the 
tiona! title. defended its national title. p.m. today at Jake Kline Field. "When you walk into a hal-Irish. Jody Contorno will get 
Notre Dame beat Temple The Irish had defeated The ranking by The Sporting I park against a team like one start, and in the other game 9-5 in the first match and tied Wayne State twice during News may come as a surprise Illinois-Chicago who's hungry Jim Shortall will probably get Columbia 8-8 in the second the season. to some, especially considering and whose program is getting the call. match. The Irish technically Following Wayne State in that the Irish dropped out of the better, they want to beat us," "We have a great deal of lost the second match be-order were Columbia, Notre ESPNCollegiate Baseball Top said Murphy. "They don't care respect for Notre Dame," said cause Columbia had two Dame, Pennsylvania, 30 poll last week. if we're ranked number one or Refakes. "We can't afforc to more touches. Temple, Penn State, Har-The Irish 05-5) have come number two. make mistakes. They have 
vard and Ohio State. into national recognition this good players with national 
In the third-place match, In the individual competi-season from beating Top 5 "I promise that if we think reputations, and we know Notre Dame tied Pennsylva­tion, Janice Hynes led the teams such as Texas in we're better, if we play like we we're going to have to play a nia 8-8. The Irish were given Irish with a sixth-place February and Miami in March. think we're supposed to win, good game to beat them. We the victory because they had finish. Senior Kristin "I'm flattered," said Irish we're going to get. .. waxed." know they're well-coached and five more touches than Kralicek carne in lOth, while head coach Pat Murphy. "The Illinois-Chicago coach Dean that they're not going to do a Pennsylvania. freshman Heidi Piper players deserve recognition for Refakes is trying to fuel the lot of things to beat them-
On the day, senior captain placed 13th overall. great accomplishments in Flames program. Illinois-selves." Janice Hynes <Peabody, As a team, Wayne State beating a couple great teams, Chicago finished 27-29 last Such lavish praise most Mass.) finished 7-4, fresh­won the individual cornpeti-but I don't think we''re so irn-season. likely will not go to the players' man Heidi Piper (Brisbane, tion as well, while all four mature that we're going to let "Dean Refakes is doing an heads, however, as they are Australia) was 8-3, senior Columbia fencers failed to it (the ranking) change our unbelievable job recruiting," corning off a weekend series Kristin Kralicek qualify for the individuals. feelings about ourselves. said Murphy. "He's got that 
''We know what type of team program on the go, and they see FLAMES I page 13 

Jake Kline Field home of many memories for Irish 
Ever since Stanley Coveleski Regional Stadium opened two years ago, the Notre Dame baseball team has played selected games at a field that rivals the best college playing fields in the nation. 
But as far as the Irish players are concerned, there's just no place like horne. 
"Coveleski's a great facility, but I feel at horne at Jake Kline Field," said senior second baseman Mike Moshier about the on-campus field. "I hope it never comes to the point where the University feels it doesn't need Jake Kline Field because of Coveleski." 
It doesn't take long to notice there's something different about Jake Kline Field, named after the 41-year Irish baseball coach. After all, not many parks have their flagpole in fair territory. . 
The flagpole, located deep in centerfield, actually carne into play a few years ago when former Aca­demic All-America outfielder John Loughran knocked a horne run to dead center that hit the pole. 
"I remember when I first got here, I saw that flagpole and I wondered to myself if anyone ever had hit the pole, and I thought the chances were so slim," said Moshier. "Then Loughran hit one right off the flagpole about three-quarters of the way up. It had to be about a 420-foot horner." 
That flagpole became the setting for another memorable Jake Kline Field moment a couple of 
Steve Megargee 
Irish Items 

years ago. Former Irish infielder Ray Szajko had just received a glove from his brother, a former Notre Dame star and minor league player. 
"Szajko was running around and talking about how great his new glove was," remembers senior pitcher Mike Passilla. "One of the seniors stole the glove and hiked it up the flagpole. It was flying around for about half an hour before Szajko realized he needed his glove for infield practice." 
The actual dimensions at Jake Kline Field are 330 feet down the foul lines and 385 in centerfield. Those numbers really don't make much difference in this field, where the wind is always blowing and never in a direction beneficial to the pitchers. 
"The wind always seems to be blowing out," said junior pitcher Brian Piotrowicz. "It's pretty much become known as an anti-pitcher's park." 
Last year's four-game series with Detroit af­firmed that. Notre Dame won three of the game by scores of 9-8, 12-11 and 16-11. Detroit took the other game on a 14-12 decision. 
"The wind was blowing directly in our faces," said senior pitcher Mike Passilla, who started one game in that series. "It was so bad that when you pitched, your hat would fall off. I'd seen what had happened the first games in that series as a result of the wind, but you have to have some confidence when you're out on the mound." 
"But after the first two innings, when the score was about 5-2 their favor, I was having my doubts." 
Fortunately for the Irish pitchers, the Notre Dame hitters took full advantage of that wind. The Irish overcame an 8-3 deficit in the 9-8 victory and won the 12-11 game with a nine-run rally in the final inning. 
Pitching in· a hitter's ballpark obviously can get pretty frustrating. Former Irish pitcher Steve Powell realized that the pitcher's jinx at Jake Kline Field sometimes extends beyond the playing terri­tory itself. 
"He came in from a bad outing, and he'd had enough," recalls Moshier. "He threw his glove kind of underhanded into the dugout, but it went straight up in the air and landed on top of the press box." 
Players do much of the work in making sure the 
see JAKE 1 page 14 

