
Gorbachev, Castro meet 

Associated Press 
HAVANA-Presidents Mik­hail Gorbachev and Fidel Castro went behind closed doors Monday for marathon talks expected to air their ideological differences and highlight the problems of Third World nations. 
A Soviet spokesman1 asked whether Gorbachev would of­fer to forgive Cuba's massive debt to the Soviet Union, said that subject was not discussed specifically, although the leaders did talk about the "enormous debt plundering the economies" of Latin American countries. 
The spokesman, Gennady Gerasimov, said Gorbachev's initial discussions with Castro and the Cuban Communist Party's Central Committee were held in a ''friendly atmo­sphere." 
He also said Gorbachev re­ported on the Soviet Union's recent multicandidate par­liamentary elections, which were seen as a popular victory for the party's reformers. Castro, who has never allowed competitive elections in his 30­year rule, has openly criticized Gorbachev's reforms for bor­rowing too much from the capitalist world. 
After the ceremonial laying of a wreath at the monument to Jose Marti, the father of Cuban independence, Castro escorted his guest to the Palace of the Revolution to begin their discussions, which were sched­
see CASTRO I page 3 

CHANGING OF THE GUARD 
Breslin and Kinkopf work for improved student govt. 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER Senior Staff Reporter 
Editor's note: This is the second of a two-part series. 
The new student government administration under Student Body President Matt Breslin and Vice President Dave Kinkopf will make an effort to "continue and improve upon the accomplishments of the previous adminstration'' in the coming year, according to Breslin. 
"In areas such as intellectual life and student service, the target areas of Doyle and Paese, we shall make an effort to continue and expand on the ideas they presented," said Breslin. 
"Things like the Iceberg Debates and·the Board of Trus­tee Reports were excellent ac­complishments under the last administration," Breslin said. "and indicate the positive trend that student government has been following for the past few years. We want to continue that trend." 
Breslin and Kinkopf plan to keep up the good relationship that Doyle and Paese main­tained with the University ad­ministration. They have spoken with Universiy Presi­dent Father Edward Malloy a number of times in regard to the coming year. 
"As we (Malloy and Bres­liwKinkopf) each represent dif­ferent interests, we naturally will have disagreements, but a positive working relationship is the only way to get things done for the students," said Kinkopf. 
Concerning student service, "'?"concerns of the students," said 
Breslin and Kinkopf plan to focus on this issue and have a variety of new ideas to aid in their plans. 
"First of all," said Breslin, "we've got the groundwork for things like the 24-hour lounge. Because Doyle and Paese started that, we've got a cus­hion to fall back on. 
"The idea is started, and we can hopefully make it more of a reality." 
Breslin and Kinkopf also have plans to construct a 'legal department' in student govern­ment which will research is­sues before they are presented to the administration. 
"With the establishment of this department of student gov­ernment, we will have more ra­tional, intelligent responses to 

Cast your ballot 
AP Photo 

Alderman Tim Evans waves to supporters in the Rockwell Gardens housing projects while campaigning Saturday afternoon in Chicago. Evans is a candidate in today's mayoral election. 
Kinkopf. 
"A main focus of the depar­tment will be Board of Trustee Reports. Information from the reports will be brought to the attention of those in the admin­istration who most need to see it," Kinkopf said. 
"Hopefully with the research done and the information in the Trustee Reports, we can have more implementation of the changes outlined in the reports themselves and an alteration of other policies that need chang­ing," said Kinkopf. 
Smaller services also are of concern to Breslin and Kinkoff. "You hear people complain about little things not provided, like phones in academic build­ings, and we want to make those things more available for the students," said Breslin. 
"Along with our long term projects, we hope to provide little things for the convenience of the students. We want to be more in touch with the students to provide their needs," said Kinkopf. · 
Although still assembling their cabinet, Bresling and Kinkopf hope to make that cabinet and the rest of student government more visible and accessible to students. 
This visibility includes an open-door policy for students with complaints or ideas for student government, and an ef­fort for increased publicity. "We're going to try to inform students of events, and try to let them know that we're here for them," said Breslin. 
1988-89 activity fee budget reported 
By CHRISTINE WALSH Staff Reporter 
The $55 student activities fee is the sole source of funds for the Student Activity Fee Budget, according to 1988-89 Student Body Treasurer Mic­helle Zinser. 
The Student Activities Fees Budget, which is prepared each April by the Student Senate Finance Committee, allocates money to student government, the Student Union Board, and over 80 clubs and organiza­tions. 
''Any club or organization has to be registered for a year before they .can appeal for money," said Zinser. 
Clubs and organizations in­clude the senior, junior, sopho­more and freshman classes, WVFI Radio, Hall President's Council, Judicial Council, Stu­dent Senate, and Off-Campus Council. Funds also go to groups such as academic clubs, special interest clubs such as BACCHUS and the Keenan Revue, athletic clubs, social 
see BUDGET I page 4 


page 2 
WORLD BRIEFS 

Syrian and Christian gunners shelled residential areas of Beirut Monday, and politicians failed once again to stop the most violent chapter in Lebanon's long civil war since 1985. A police spokesman said 20 people were killed and 42 wounded since the non-stop bombardment of the city and surrounding hills began at dusk Saturday. That brought the casualty toll to 147 killed and 481 wounded, nearly all civilians, since the battle began March 8 between the Christian army units of Gen. Michel Aoun and Druse militiamen backed by Syrian troops. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 

President Bush met with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak on Monday in Washington, opening a week of intensive talks on the Middle East. Bush said "a new atmosphere" must be created between Israel and Arab nations. After more than an hour of discussion, Bush urged an end to Israel's occupation of the West Bank and the Gaza, endorsed the "achievement of Palestinian political rights" and said a "properly structured" international peace conference could play a useful role. The tone of Bush's remarks suggested the United States may attempt to exert pres­sure for compromise on Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, who arrives in the United States on Wednesday and confers with Bush on Thursday. 
The Animal Liberation Front claimed responsibility Monday for two early-morning arson fires at the University of Arizona. The fires caused an estimated $100,000 damage and may have unleased a potentially deadly disease. The group claimed in a letter sent to news organizations that it freed more than 1,000 animals from three research facilities and set fire to a diagnostic lab and a converted house near the medical college campus. Charles Sterling, a professor of veterinary science, said 30 young mice infected with what he described as a Third World disease were among those taken. 
_N_D_I_A_N_A_B_R_I_E_F_S_______________,; Sometimes when I come in at night 1 feel like I I have to pass inspection-my parents weren't 
-------------------------as strict as my security guard. 
The Indiana House overwhelmingly rejected a proposal Monday to remove the death sentence against Paula Cooper, convicted of a murder committed when she was 15 years old. The House voted 73-26 against the proposal which would have retroactively applied to Cooper's case a 1987 law raising from 10 to 16 the state's minimum age for a convicted murderer who can receive a death sentence. That law's standard applies to the,. age of the defendant at the time of the crime. Cooper was a 15-year-old Gary schoolgirl at the time of the 1985 stabbing death of Ruth Pelke, a 78-year-old Bible teacher. 
Two toddlers were killed and their parents were injured Monday when fire roared through their Perry County farmhouse near Cannelton, Ind., authorities said. Vanessa Fuchs, 3, and her 16-month-old brother, Quentin, died in the fire, which was re­ported shortly before 1 a.m. The children's father, Jeffrey Fuchs, 25, was in stable condition later in the day at Wishard Memorial Hospital in Indianapolis with burns over 50 percent of his body. Their mother, Jennifer, was treated at an area hospital for minor injuries and was released. When firefighters arrived at the home almost half of the frame structure was engulfed in flames. The children were found in a bedroom, where the fire is believed to have started. No cause of the fire was immediately determined. 
An explosion at Essex Wire Corp. in Vincennes, Ind., injured a laboratory technician. Phyllis Miciska, 41, of Vincennes, was in critical condition Monday. She was mixing chemicals when the explosion occurred about 10:15 a.m. Sunday, fire officials said. Miciska suffered burns over 80 percent of her body and was taken to Good Samaritan Hospital in Vincennes. She later was transferred to the burn unit at Wishard Memorial Hospital in Indianapolis. Authorities said they had not determined the type of chemicals Miciska was mixing. 
WEATHER 


More of the same Partly cloudy, windy and cooler today. Highs in the lower to middle 50s. A 30 percent chance of light rain or light snow tonight, lows in the upper 30s. Variable cloudiness and cool Wednesday, highs in 
the middle 40s. 
ALMANAC 

On April 4: e In 1841: President William Henry Harrison succumbed to pneu­monia one month after his inaugu­
ration , becoming the first U. S. chief executive to die while in office. e In 1949: 12 nations, includ­
ing the U.S., signed the North Atlantic Treaty. 
e In 1968: Civil rights leader Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was shot to death in Memphis, Tenn., where he 
had gone to support a strike by sanita­tion workers. He was 39. 
• Ten years ago: Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, the deposed prime minister of Pakistan, was hanged after he was convicted of conspiring to murder a political opponent in 1974. 
MARKET UPDATE 

Closings for Monday, .April 3, 1989 


Dow Jones 
Industrial Average 
+11.18 
Closed at 2304.80 

Currency exchange Mark ...0212 to 1.8763 OM I$ Yen +1.02 to 131.78¥1$ 
Precious Metals Gold +$1.10 to$391.101oz. Silver+ 1.0¢ to $5.8331 oz. 
-~~-~~----------------­
The Observer Tuesday, April 4, 1989 


Frosh year reflections reveal shortcomings 
I was sitting in my Calculus class today when I decided to start working on my Inside Column. I was writing in my Calc class because my Calc class is BORING. As a matter of fact my math class is not my only boring class. The high school-ish requirements of the Freshman Year of Studies undoubtedly come to mind as I reflect on my first year ;:tt Notre Dame. 
My first year at Notre Dame has been fabulous and I know that I am very lucky to attend this institution. There are some situa­tions that exist that bother me and I am writing about them because I believe that with student inititive the University can be a place that all students can feel proud of. 
If I'm going to complain about the math re­quirement, I might as well complain about the science requirement, too. Lucky for me and many others, we have the advisors at the Fresh­man Year office. Without the free tutoring in· the Freshman Learning Resource Center I would have never survived. 
Another disturbing aspect of my first year is the chauvinism that is present at this once all­male institution. In my opinion, this chauvinism is present in the way that my dorm is run. Female dorms have a security monitor and a detex system. It is always nice to feel secure, but in my dorm our security guard extends her duties further than that. Our security guard makes rounds at parietals, breaks up parties and checks students for drunkeness at night. 
I feel that when the security guard assumes all this power the power of the hall staff is les­sened. Why is it that in the male dorms the staff handles the situations within the dorm, not a security guard? Are we saying that a female staff cannot handle breaking up social gather­ings and insuring that the students are in con­trol? 
One of the best parts of my freshman year has been the activities in the dorm and campus­wide that I have participated in. Working at 
OF INTEREST 
Actor Martin Sheen will be the special guest today on WVFI's "Issues '89" along with a discussion of current national issues begin­ning at 9 p.m. -The Observer 
Employment opportunities with IDS Fianancial Services is offered for juniors and seniors today from 5 to 6 p.m. in Room 303 Haggaar College Center. Resumes will be ac­cepted. -The Observer 
Student Business Board applications for Assistant General Manager are now available in the student government Office, LaFortune Student Center. Completed applications are due Monday, April10. -The Observer 
Visions, the fourth edition of the English Department student fiction magazine, is solicit­ing manuscripts for the 1989 edition. Two copies with a removable front page containing au­thor's name are due in Room 356, O'Shaughnessy Hall, by 4 p.m. today. -The Ob­server 
Free pizza sponsored by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student governments today at 4:30 
p.m. in Theodore's for students who are going abroad and wish to talk with former foreign study participants. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's English department hosts a "Majors Night" for En_glish majors and minors and all others interested today at 7 p.m. in the Haggar Lounge. -The Observer 

'The University can be a place that all students can be proud of.' 
Kelley Tuthill Assistant News Editor 
The Observer, I have met many new friends and learned a lot. However, I was both surprised and shocked at the harassment of several writers this year. I believe that when someone writes a column it is obvious that they are expressing their own opinions. Response is expected and desired-written response that is. Calling people at home and harassing them is uncalled for and immature. It also detracts from the exchange of ideas that is supposed to take place in a newspaper. 
The final situation that has been on my mind since my arrival here is the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's situation. It constantly bothers me that relations between Notre Dame women and Saint Mary's women are not what they could be. There are many negative stereotypes that both women 'express. 
In my opinion, the administration and student government could do their part in fostering bet­ter understanding between the two groups. Per­haps dorms and student government can spon­sor more activities with both groups of women. The relations could be improved if women from Saint Mary's were permitted to participate in more non-varsity athletic activities. 
I know that I sound like all I'm doing is com­plaining. Believe it or not I am very happy at Notre Dame.. However, throughout the year some situtions have bothered me. I write about them because I honestly hope and believe that in some ways certain problems can and will be alleviated in the next three years that I am a Domer. 
Beta Alpha Psi presents James Lafond of Coopers and Lybrand speaking on "A Perspec­tive on the Accounting Profession," today at 4:15p.m. in Room 122 Hayes-Healy. -The Ob­server 
Cheerleadung tryouts today in the pit of the Joyce ACC beginning at 6 p.m. Final cuts will take place tomorrow night. 
An Observer news reporters meeting will be held Wednesday, April5 at 8 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room on the second floor of LaFor­tune. All current reporters are requj.red to at­tend, and anyone interested in joining The Ob­server should also attend. For information, call Matt Gallagher at 239-5303 or 283-1957. -The Ob­server 
The Dome is accepting applications for the 1989-90 Yearbook staff. All positions, including sections editors, assistant editors, and photog­raphers are open. Applications are available in Room 315, LaFortune and are due by Friday, April 7. -The Observer "'· 
Artists needed for decorating the Homeless Shelter. For more information call Stephanie McNeill at 283-2814. -The Observer 
Retreat weekend signups for The Road of the Heart's Desire, directed by Father John Dunne, have !been extended to April 5. Applica­tions are available in the Office of Campus Min­istry, Badin Hall. 
Design Editor . . . Kathy Huston Design Assistant .......... Tricia Grohman Typesetters.... . . ............... Dan Towers ............................................. Mike Kolar News Editor.............. Florentine Hoelker 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Copy Editor .................. Christine Walsh Sports Copy Editor.......... Scott Brutocao 
(219) 239-7471 Viewpoint Layout.. ............. Laura Manzi Viewpoint Copy Editor ... J. Scharfenberg Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin Accent Copy Editor ........ John Naccarato Accent Designer ................ Paul Indeglia 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday throl'gn Friday except Typist ................................... Will Zamir during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the 
........................................ Diana Bradley .............................................. Sue Barton 
University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur­
ND Day Editor ..... Margaret McCloskey
chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
SMC Day Editor .......... Rozel Gatmaitan The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights Photographer..................... E. G. Bailey 
are reserved. 

! Tuesday, April 4, 1989 The Observer page 3 

Medieval fascination The Observer/E.G. Bailey 
P.F. Kussmaul (left) of Dalhousie University, Canada, and L.J. Bataillon (right) of Commissio Leonina, Italy scrutinize a medieval manuscript purchased by Astrik Gabriel (center), a director at the Medieval Institute, Monday. The medieval texts are being shown as part of the ad Litteram conference at the Notre Dame Medieval Institute, being held April 2-4. 
'89-90 Senate gives plans for next year 
By Cathy Flynn Staff Reporter 

Gene Siskel will not appear as scheduled on April 4 due the death of his father said Raja Singh, Student Union Board Manager at the Student Senate meeting on Monday. 
Money will be refunded for tickets already purchased, Singh said. Siskel was sup­posed to be a part of a panel discussion on "American Values/American Film." 
Budget planning is one of the next things on the agenda for newly elected Senate. If a club needs money for next year, ap­plications are due on April 19 and can be picked up in room 315 in LaFortune. All club money from this year should be spent by April 21. 
Future expectations of the new Student Senate were also discussed. This was the first meeting of the 1988-'89 Senate, which is led by Student Body President, Matt Breslin. 
"I'd really like the Senate to be positive in the eyes of the students next year," Breslin said. "I'd like to explore new issues at the University and try to make the Senate as effective as possible," he added. 
Another role of the Senate is to safeguard the rights of stu­dents, Kinkopf said. Students are encouraged to utilize the senators whenever they have an issue they think should be presented,he added. 
Meetings are open to all stu­dents. They will be held every Monday night at 6 p.m. in the Notre Dame room at LaFor­tune. 
Exxon issues public apology as Ala:skan oil spill worsens 

Associated Press 
VALDEZ, Alaska-Exxon apologized Monday for causing the nation's biggest oil spill and promised to clean up every fouled beach in Prince William Sound, but workers on those greasy-smelling beaches said their efforts are futile. 
Police continued searching for the captain of the tanker Exxon Valdez, which crashed into Bligh Reef on March 24, spilling 10.1 million gallons of North Slope crude. 
The oil slick has now grown larger than Rhode Island. Scientists reported more wildlife deaths and said a vital herring fishery was threatened. The Prince William Sound fishery is worth more than $150 million annual­ly. 
"I want to tell you how sorry I am that this accident took place," said Exxon Chairman 
L.G. rawl in full-page adver­tisements placed in newspapers Monday. 
"We cannot, of course, undo what has been done. But I can assure you that since March 24, the accident has been receiving our full attention and will con­tinue to do so." 
More than 1,000 seabirds and at least 20 sea otters caught in the oil have died, some found covered with asphalt-hard oil. Officials said the death toll is probably much higher, but they have had time to survey only a slice of the sound's 2,500 miles of coastline. 

is looking for motivated Saint Mary's students interested in serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community in the following paid positions: 
Saint Mary's Editor Asst. Saint Mary's Editor 
Responsible for daily coverage of Saint Mary's events and coordinating Observer staff there Newspaper experience helpful but not required Must commit time to work in Observer offices in Haggar College Center and Lafortune For more information please contact ~hris Donnelly or Regis Coccia at 239-5303 by Friday, April 7 
ANNOUNCES: 
'8~ ROCK-N-ROLL !P' $~ EVERY WEDNESDAY er. ~ ..~ WED. APRIL 5 \:/" ROCK TO THE MUSIC OF 


THE KINETICS 
Free Admission For Dinner Guests! Call For Reservations & Show Information 
Center Street Blues, 100 Center, Mish. 256-0710 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT AND DINNER TUE. THRU SAT. 

Department of Fish and Game spokesman Jon Lyman said Monday a deer found dead on Naked Island about 25 miles southwest of the tanker had aJP­parently eaten contaminated food, an indication of how rapidly the spill was spreading. 
"That's bad news. That's the top of the food chain,'' Lyman said. 
On nearby Green Island, hundreds of birds lay along the beach, as black and lifeless as the oil-smeared rocks around them. Sheltered coves and rocky points, usually clamor­ing with the sound of gulls and other shorebirds, were silent. 
"Every day, it's getting a little worse," otter rescue spe­cialist Chris Donohoe said as he squatted by a dead sea duck. "You clean a beach up, the tide changes, and the oil come~s right back.'' 
Oil is so thick that walking on once postcard-perfect beaches is treacherous, and workers wear hardhats to protect against injuries from frequent tumbles on rocks. Oil sprayed by waves splatters rocks and driftwood logs high above the tideline. Beaches smell like gas station garages. 

More than half the spawning habitat used by Prince William Sound herring has been fouled, said Dennis Haanpaa, a fis­heries biologist with the Alaska Department of Fish and Game. 
Exxon officials have conceded that beach cleanup efforts so far have been futile. But the company said it began a new assault with more effecc tive gear, more workers and a floating command post. 
Exxon Shipping Co. Presi­dent Frank Iarossi said Exxon planned to flush beaches by pumping seawater over them, then collect oil from the water with skimmers. 
"We intend not to leave until the job is done," Iarossi said. "We intend to leave Prince William Sound close to what it was before the tragedy." 

is holding a meeting for all current and prospective 
News reporters 
on Wednesday, April 5 at 8 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room, 2nd Floor LaFortune Center 
All current reporters are required to attend. Anyone interested in joining The Observer news staff should also attend this meeting. 
For information, call Matt Gallagher at 239-5303 or 283-1957 
Tuesdays. A Great Day to meet Your Friends at ChiChi's 
State officials have blasted Exxon's effort to scrub beaches as dismal and ineffective. Less than 4 percent of the thick crude has been recovered. 
The spill has fouled more than 800 miles of shoreline in Prince William Sound, and the amount grows each day. 
Exxon fired Capt. Joseph Hazelwood last week. The 42­year-old skipper admitted drinking before boarding the Exxon Valdez, according to court documents. Blood and urine samples taken nine hours after the accident indicated he was drunk. 
An arrest warrant has been issued in Alaska for him, but his whereabouts were un­known. Hazelwood is presumed to have gone home to Hunting­ton, N.Y., and Sgt. Clifton Smith of the New York State Police said there were indica­tions that he had contacted a lawyer and might surrender soon. 





Castro 
continued from page 1 

uled to continue on and off through the day and evening. 
Gorbachev's wife, Raisa, visited a day care center, a Cuban-Soviet friendship center and planned to tour the home of the late American author Ernest Hemingway, who lived for many years on an estate outside Havana that is now a museum. Both Mrs. Gorbachev and her husband have men­tioned reading Hemingway, a writer whose works have been tranlated into Russian and are popular in the Soviet Union. 
Gerasimov said Gorbachev and Castro, in their opening talks, exchanged views on the March 26 Soviet elections and discussed problems in Latin America, particularly those of 
indebtedness  and  the  drug  
trade.  
The  spokesman  observed  

that Latin American countries are increasingly becoming drug suppliers to North America while at the same time increasingly becoming drug consumers. 
The debt is only one aspect of the economic ties between the Soviet Union and Cuba. So­viet economic aid to Cuba is es­timated by Western sources at between $4 billion and $7 billion annually. 

Budget 
continued from page 1 

action, ethnic, music, and honors clubs. 
The total allocations for clubs and organizations in the 1988-89 budget were $164,850, and represented the largest part of the budget. 
The next largest portion of the budget went to SUB, receiv­ing $155,545, and student gov­ernment was alotted $74,605. 
The total budget for the 1988­89 year amounted to approxi­mately $395,000. 
"Last year, it took about 30 hours, total, in meetings, to get this all (the budget) down," Zinser said. 
"Each year we oversee the allocations that we make, and hear appeals," said Zinser. Ap­peals can occur every week, and are made by the organiza­tions to which the Finance Committee makes the alloca­tions. Those who appeal are usually "people who weren't satisfied with what they got in the beginning, or they had a special event coming up that they needed extra money for," said Zinser. Sometimes ap­peals are made just in order to 
keep an organization running, she added.
Doggie doner 
Money set aside in a contin­gency fund is available on ap­
Goldie, a mixed golden retriever, is held in place and comforted by 
Laurie Cordaro (left), surgery supervisor, and Medora Mower, nurse, 
peal.

as she gives blood Sunday at the MSPCA's Angell Memorial Animal 
Organizations who "do not
Hospital in Boston. Donor pets, participating in the first blood drive 
"fill out the appeals application 
in the nation for cats and dogs, received free health exams and pet 
correctly, or hadn't used their
treats in return. 

U.S. vows to fight sky terrorism 
Tuesday, April 4, 1989
page 4 The Observer 
funds well the previous year" were generally not granted ex­tra money, though the groups could issue new appeals later, said Zinser. The budget com­mittee can hear appeals at any time during the year. 
"All of our accounting sys­tem is handled in the Adminis­tration building," said Zinser. 
"All of our accounts earn in­terest, and so this year (1988­
89) we earned $10,000 in inter­est," Zinser said. "$395,000 is a conservative figure for the total. The whole budget is prob­ably closer to $405,000." 
Interest and other extra monies are placed in an overall 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The United States announced new measures to combat sky ter­rorism Monday as relatives of passengers killed in the Pan Am Flight 103 bombing mounted a campaign to com­plain about aviation security and the government's "lack of compassion'' following the dis­aster. 
Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner, who along with President Bush met with several relatives of those killed in the explosion over Scotland, told a news conference that air­lines will be required to install devices to detect plastic ex­plosives in major U.S. and foreign airports. 
Relatives of victims in the 




rc-ufif-1 

I OUT! I

I and save I 
I 10% 
I 
I off your 1 I summer 1 I storage 1 

I 816 E McKinley I I 259-0335 1 
I ,... I 
I 1W1i11i 1 
I Storage 1
i Depot I 

I 
I 
I 

Dec. 21 explosion, which has been blamed on a plastic device hidden in a radio-cassette player, praised Bush for con­cern shown in the meeting and said Skinner's announcement was a good first step. 
But spokesman Bert Ammer­man of Demarest, N.J., told a rally across the street from the White House that measures an­nounced by Skinner were "not enough." 
Ammerman, whose brother Tom was one of 270 victims of the crash, asked for a unified congressional investigation of the disaster, hand-searching of all luggage put aboard air­liners, and an end to a system that allows notification only of airline, airport and govern­ment security personnel when there's a terrorist threat. 
Are you 
denying yourself 
a better shot 
at grad school? 
Okay, it may be too late to get a 4.0. But it's not too late to try to do better on your LSAT, GMAT, GRE, or MCAT. For that, there's Stanley H. Kaplan. 
No one has prepped more students than Stanley H. Kaplan. Our test-taking techniques and educational programs have prepared over 1 million students. 
So whatever grad school exam yotire taking, call us. Remember, the person next to you during your exam might have taken a Kaplan course. 
!KAPLAN 
KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 
219/272~4135 
contingency fund, and rolled over to the next year's budget, according to Zinser. "The con­tingency this year when we started was $24,000, and at the end of my term, it was down to about $5500," said Zinser. 
The constitution for student government prevents govern­ment from using the money gotten from the student activ­ity fee for non-student oriented affairs, including donations to charity, and provides the guidelines for the operation of the budget commitee. The Uni­versity administration may also oversee the financial proceedings of the committee. 

ATTENTION: Grad Students, 

Professors, Employees 

MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Less than 1 0 minutes from campus 

*Washer & dryer 111 t:tach apartment *flexible leases 
(also-furnished executive suites ) @ 
£QUAl HOUSING
call for details -277-3731 
()'!'OOTUNITY 


ATTENTION All GRADUATING STUDENTS 
Measurements will be taken for 
Caps and Gowns 
Tuesday April 4, 1989 Wednesday April 5, 1989 
Between 9:00 -4:00 
at the 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

Viewpoint
Tuesday, April 4, 1989 
page 5 
-------.L-=Y~~ ---­
-Ih-e-0-bse.-~~r-­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor .... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ....•....... Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor ................. Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ....... Shannon Roach Sports Editor ...................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks Accent Editor .......................... John Blasi Systems Manager ...•......... Mark Derwent Photo Editor ............................ Eric Bailey OTS Director................... Angela Bellanca Controller •........•...•.............. Anne Lindner 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper publisned by the students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. lt does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, Executive News Editor. Viewpoint Editor. Sports Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Commentaries. let1ers and the Inside Column present t~ views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community ·and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

EDITORIAL 
Doyle & Paese: a successful year 
The mantles of student body president and vice pres­ident have now offically been passed from Tom Doyle and Mike Paese to Matt Breslin and Dave Kinkopf respectively. 
Doyle and Paese have done an admirable job representing the needs of the students this past year. It is important that student government work with the administration and Doyle and Paese were able to continue to improve the relationship that Pat Cooke and Laurie Bink began two years ago. 
Doyle and Paese did an outstanding job increasing the political awareness of Notre Dame students. The students became more vocal in national and local politics as a result of their extensive voter registration drive and their efforts to educate students. The John Hiler/ Tom Ward debate on campus is testimony not only to their efforts to educate but also their registra­tion drive's success. 
For years students have been promised a 24-hour space by those running for office. Doyle and Paese were successful in obtaining the Oak Room as such a space, and although the Night Oak eventually closed, this was a direct result of student apathy and the profit-oriented motives the of Night Oak and not the lack of effort from student government. 
Breslin and Kinkopf have a tough act to follow. Doyle and Paese accomplished a lot, but the climate is right and there is still a lot to be done. 
The new student government administration must continue a healthy relationship with the University. They must work with each other, not against one an­other. 
It is necessary that Breslin and Kinkopf not only concentrate on fulfilling their campaign promises but also on improving on the few failed but solid plans of the Doyle! Paese administration. They must fulfill their campaign promise to create a legal department to examine student rights and needs. However, Doyle and Paese's plans for a 24-hour space and teacher evaluation forms should be explored and re-examined to see if these ideas are still practical. 
The Observer congratulates Tom Doyle and Mike Paese and wishes good luck to Matt Breslin and Dave 
Kinkopf. 

DOONESBURY 


~ 
Ht'S VeRY 510<. HOW BAD H8'5 GOT BOTH 1'3 Hf5<! PNWMONIA ANI? K'3. BUTH~'5 A FIGHT151<. HIS \ MORAL& IS .-.........,-.HIGH. 

LETTERS 
A different spring brea•' 

Dear Editor: 
For the past several years Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student have responded to the cries of powerlessness from the Appalachian region (an area delineated by the Appalacian mountain range in the eastern U.S.) by engaging in a one week worlv-Service project during either fall or spring break. This past spring break was no different as 67 students from this community traveled to given spots in Kentucky to take part in the Appalacian ex­perience. 
As I left the region to return home, I reflected on the week's activities and was content with the work that my group accom­plished. After further con­templation, however, I realized that we made no lasting mark on the region. We left Appalac­hia exactly as we found it: an impoverished area rich in nat­ural resources. What had been changed, though, was us: We were not. the same, selfish, microcosmic people after the experience. The mountain fold afforded us the opportunity to explore issues beyond our own narrow scope (how many job offers were received or what percentage of the girls on campus are dieting, for exam­ple), which is the special part of the experience. The beauty of the program is not what we did for the Appalachian people, but rather, what they did for us. 
So next year, when the temptations of exotic vacations 
abound,  consider  the  Ap­ 
palacian  experience  a  
preferred alternative.  

Joe Meyer Carroll Hall March 31, 1989 

Release due to publications 
Dear Editor: 
Why does Notre Dame fear academic freedom? Why does the administration of the most prestigious Catholic University in this hemisphere--an admin­istration which prides itself on being both tolerant and pro­gressive, fear something for truth on both sides of the liberal!conservative fence? 
Dr. Janet Smith of the Pro­gram of Liberal Studies was notified last May that she would no longer be teaching at the University after this aca­demic year. She is a victim of Notre Dame's academic "freedom." 
The facts: Dr. Smith is an ex­emplary professor in and out of the classroom, and she has proven herself to be an out­standing scholar, not only on the national level, but even on the international level. 
If the main criterion for hiring and firing teachers is whether or not they can teach, the Dr. Smith must stay. She has be consistently praised by her peers, but especially those who are most qualified to judge her ability: us, her students. Her annual student evaluations have been among the highest of all University professors, and I maintain with all sin­cerity that Dr. Smith was the finest teacher I had in four years at Notre Dame. 
Neither should Dr. Smith "perish" after eight years of service to the University be­cause of her record of publica­tions. With her numerous arti­cles and book reviews published in internationally ac­claimed philosophical magazines, she has surpassed the University tenure require­ments. In fact, she has built an international reputation for being a first-rate moral theolo­gian and philosopher. Dr. Smith lectures at universities and even at bishops' confer­ences throughout the United States and was recently honored to be one of the few American theologians invited to a symposium of moral theologians in Rome. 
The justification given by the University for denying Smith's tenure is that she has not pub­lished enough. Why are the publications rules being made more stringent in her case? 
Her book defending the Church's teaching on artificial birth control will be published soon by Catholic University press. Was that the deciding factor in the decision on her tenure? Could it be that there is academic freedom at Notre Dame--but only for those in conformity with the "Notre Dame magisterium?" 
Anthony Anderson Class of '85 March 12, 1989 
Breslin & Kinkopf ready 
Dear Editor: 
Well, it is now official. You can remove the "elect" from our titles because as of Aprill, we are the new student body president and vice-president. Scary thought, huh? Well, we hope you don't think it is too scary. Anyway, in all serious­ness, we would like to thank all of you who supported us in the election. The overwhelming support from the student body gives us a feeling of confidence as we enter the upcoming year. 
We have already been 
working intensely trying to get ourselves prepared for what lies ahead. We have spoken with Mayor Joe Kernan and Chief of Police Marsiniak on the problems facing students off-campus, and have inves­tigated the rezoning ordinance. We plan on meeting with Neigh­borhood Housing Services to clarify their future plans so we can determine what we need to do to ensure that students have off-campus housing available in future years. We have also met with Father Malloy to dis­cuss our plans for the future while establishing strong rela­tions with the administration. · One of the biggest problems that we are told about student government is the lack of com­munication between student government and the student body. We plan to rectify this by providing first-class publicity that will catch the eye of stu­dents and make our organiza­tion more visible. Posters and newsletters are one avenue of communication, but we will also communicate through The Observer. We believe it is a valuable tool for communicat­
ing what is available to you. 
All of our plans sound great 
on paper, but two people cannot 
do it alone. That is why we are 
encouraging you to share any 
new ideas that you may have. 
Furthermore, we encourage 
you to become a part of student 
government. Our cabinet is 
structured to deal with a vari­
ety of issues, so we are sure 
that you can find the right po­
sition for yourself. 
So if you have the enthusiasm 
to become a part of student 
government, stop by the secre­
tary's desk on the second floor 
of LaFortune, pick up an appli­
cation and set up an interview. 
Applications are due Wednes­
day, April 5. 
We look forward to serving 
you. You can plan on hearing 
from us real soon. 
Matt Breslin Student Body President Dave Kinkopf Student Body Vice President April3, 1989 
SUB regrets missed movie 
Dear Editor: 
The Student Union Board would like to apologize to those who were expecting an 8 p.m. showing of "Wall Street" on Saturday, Aprill. Due to a mix­up among volunteers the showing never occurred. We regret any inconvenience this might have caused. 
Brian A. Reilly Student Union Board April 3, 1989 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

'Change the way people 
think and things will never 
be the same.'

I 
Stephen Biko 


Accent
page 6 Tuesday, April 4, 1989 
Novelist Percy awarded Laetare Medal 
Considered most 
*1 
prestigious given to ~ an American Catholic 
SARAH VOIGT accent writer 
N
ovelist Walker Percy, the recipient of the University of Notre Dame's 1989 Laetare Medal, acts like a doctor in many ways. 
Although Percy received his medical degree in 1941, he soon rejected his plans of becoming a psychiatrist so that he could devote all of his time to reading and writing. He may have rejected the biological aspects of healing, but his novels reflect a continued concern for the health of Man's mind and soul. 
Percy explains, "Having been trained as a doctor, my writing is naturally diagnostic. I approach Western society as a doctor who must prepare a case history. He must describe the patient, determine what is wrong and suggest a cure." 
Is there a cure for unhappiness and pain in our troubled society today? Percy responds, "In the end all issues come to religion. The cures are spiritual. Man must find out who he is, where he came from, and where he is going. For me, the answer is in religion." 
Percy won the Laetare Medal largely for the way his novels sensitively relate the Catholic 
'He does not write traditional religious novels . . . he deals with grace, redemption, and how the world is capable of reform' 
experience to his view of reality. The Laetare Medal has been awarded annually to a person "whose genius has ennobled the arts and sciences, illustrated the ideals of the Church and enriched the heritage of humanity." 

Annual artists' forum features 
'Heartbreak Poetry' 
COLLEEN GANNON accent writer 
T 
onight, Writers and other Troubadours, a South Bend community group, will provide an answer to Whitney Houston's musical question, 'Where do broken hearts go?' At 7:30, the group will hold their Third Annual Poetry Shootout at Senor Kel­ly's. 
The oral poetry contest will be an open mike format for anyone interested in par­ticipating. This year's theme, Heartbreak Poetry, leads Board Member Susan Brower to recommend the event to "anyone who has ever had heartbreak and put it down on paper." 

Mike Barga, a Notre Dame Graduate School alumnus, founded Writers and other Troubadours eight years ago. Brower feels the group con­sists of "people interested in bringing art to the South Bend community." 
From October to May, the group meets regularly every Tuesday night at Senor Kel­ly's. Every meeting begins with a feature performance given by various artists from poets to musicians, and is fol­lowed by an open forum. The feature performances are fifty percent literary and fifty percent musical. 
Responding to these impressive criteria, Percy said, "It was a big surprise to receive this honor. I don't feel like a genius. I write both fiction and nonfiction about themes that run counter to the usual mind set of the West­ern world." 
Percy's first novel, "The Moviegoer," won the 1961 National Book Award. His other widely read works include "The Last Gentleman," "Love in the Ruins," and "The Second Coming." He has also written two non-fictional books of philosophical essays entitled "The Message in the Bottle" and "Lost in the Cosmos." 
University President Father Edward Malloy is a member of the committee which selects the Laetare medal winner from an updated list of influential American Catholics. Malloy said, "Percy is one of the better known and most widely read contemporary authors. He is a person whose own faith and convictions make the difference. It becomes evident to those who read his books that he is concerned about the great issues of the Ca,tholic experience." 
Malloy continues, "He does not write tradi­tional religious novels with 'churchy' subject matter. Instead, he deals with grace, redemp­tion, and how the world is capable of reform." 
For the first part of his diagnosis of the human condition, Percy examines contempo­rary society and tries to discern its problems. 
The poetry contest will be judged by the audience, and a cash prize will be awarded to the first place winner. Also, the winning poem will gain recognition through publica­tion in the Writers and other Troubadours' Newsletter. Currently, the newsletter has a local mailing list consisting of 200 members. 
"The event should be very enjoyable because everyone will be participating in it." said Brower. There will be a $1.50 entrance fee for all con­test participants and audience members. The group wel­comes everyone "to share past or present sorrow with us and be a winner." 
"I use my characters to illustrate a curious phenomenon in our civilization today. Although most of our needs and desires have been met, we still don't seem any happier." 
"My novels are about the adventures of characters who have been overtaken by a curious feeling of dislocation. They don't know who they are or where they're going." 
The restless, dissatisfied characters in many of his novels help create what Percy refers to as "the very old Christian theme of Man as a pilgrim. These characters can be understood as wayfarers according to the old Christian view of Man that has been revised in this century." 
Percy elaborates, "Christian aiJ,thropology shows that Man is searching for-himself. He does not search for a scientific understanding but for a secret mystery of life or a deep truth. Life is a mystery that cannot be solved by science. Man is a wayfarer who looks to the Gospel for the Good News." 
Despite his previous study of medicme, Percy rejects science as a solution to his characters' "curious feeling of dislocation." He explains, "There seems to be more anxiety and alienation in spite of our advanced tech­nology and sciences. Our science, as advanced as it is, does not seem to be helping." 
'Life is a mystery that cannot be solved by science. Man is a wayfarer who looks to the Gospel for the Good News.' 
According to Percy, his latest novel, "The 
Thanatos Syndrome," is a satire that shows what goes wrong when you rely purely on scientific means to solve the fundamental problems of human society. 
Through the characterizations in his writings, Dr. Walker Percy suggests the Christian faith as a way to help cure the restlessness of the human spirit. 
Past winners of the Laetare Medal include President John Kennedy, Catholic Worker Founder Dorothy Day, Businessman J. Peter Grace, and Actress Helen Hayes. Percy be­comes only the seventh novelist to receive the Laetare Medal since it was established at Notre Dame in 1883. 


Tuesday, April 4, 1989 The Observer 
page 7 

Watson attempts a rebound 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga.--Beneath the name on Tom Watson's busi­ness card, the line reads: "Golf Professional." 
"That's what I am," Watson said. 
"There are other responsi­bilities, other commitments," Watson said, mentioning a couple of golf courses he's building in Japan, "but I'm still a golf pro. Not anything else. That's what I do." 
And Watson, a five-time British Open champioll';' is bringing a renewed enthusi­asm and optimism to a com­eback attempt aimed at regaining the lofty position he once held in world golf. 
"It's getting a little better every week," he said before a practice round for the 53rd Masters that begins Thursday at the Augusta National Golf Club. "My attitude is good and my golf game reflects it." 
Watson, 39, won the Masters in 1977 and 1981 and has been second three other times. But he has been virtually over­looked in pre-tournament evaluations of potential win­ners. 
It's a situation that's becom­ing familiar to Watson, who once dominated the game, once was the center of attention at any tournament he entered. 
Watson is enduring an unex­plained slump that has lasted five years--with one joyous in­terruption at the 1987 Nabisco Championship. He hasn't been in title contention in eight starts this year. 
Five times the leading money winner arid six times Player of the Year, he is 64th on the season's money-winning list. 
While he is less than enchanted, Watson is far from dismayed. 
"My enthusiasm and pa­tience are better than at any time in the last two years," Watson said. 
He then analyzed some of his playing problems. 
"I got too mechanical," he said. "I was thinking too much about the swing. 

Men's boo~~store basketball: Day 2 
Monday's Results Stepan 1 4:00-No! over Five Henchmen by 10. 
4:45 -The Lima Bean is Stuck over Bob Villa & the Nail-Drivers by 6. 
5:30 -Anything over Four Jerks & Couple of 
Squirts by 15. 6:15-Trigger, Bronco & the 3 Horsemen over Winnie Quinn by 14. 
Stepan 2 

4:00 -4 Cheerleaders & a Stiff over 4 Studs 
and Brad by 15. 4:45-Rubber Duckies over Lawson's Meat Mar­ket by 8. 
5:30 -Dry Musk over We Got the Tools but not 
the Talent by 3. 6:15-Sport Death over Adworks Slow Children by forfeit. 
Stepan 3 

4:00 -5 Larry Birds Who Can't Shoot over A Fireman, A Gardener ... by 2. 
4:45 -No, No Moe! The Other Basket over 3 Engaged Guys & 2 Wasting by 18. 
5:30 -Nestle Quik & the Bruise Bros. over The Brew's Crew by 10. 
6:15 -Mary 3.1415 over Rick's Future Wife & 
4 Girls Who Wish ... by 13. Stepan 4 
4:00 -We can't play but we can coach ... over Goose's Gang by forfeit. 4:45-Swish, Swish, Brick over The Everlasting Renob by 2. 5:30-Supreme Darks over La Polla Recors by 
6. 
6: t 5 -We can't think of a good name over 
Slimer & the Apparitions by 6. Stepan 5 
4:00 -Human Tripods over Rigid Structures by 18. 
4:45 -Bad Boys of Bookstore over A Work of Art by 9. 
5:30 -We dribble but Shiko scores over Col­league flowing with TAO by 14. 6:15-Pistachio Stu over Forfeited Light by 13. 
Stepan 6 4:45-Men with the Key over Women in Cages by 3. 
5:30 -We're better than a Sharp Stick in the 
Eye over Here to Play by 16. 6:15-Copy Center Copycats over The Scream­ing Midgets from Hell by 10. 
Bookstore 9 
4:00 -The Moot Points over But I Bought You 
Dinner by 12. 4:45-Shooting Blanks over Dial Teg by 14. 
6:15 -John Tower, Keith Tower .. over J.T. 
Connection by forfeit. Bookstore 10 
4:45 -Snark over Parrotheads Forever by 9. 
5:30 -5 Dried Boogers on a Shower Stall Wall over Spot Us 19 by forfeit. 6:15-4 Hamburgers over The Bastards by 9. 
Lyons 11 
4:00 -Morris Inn Keepers over Harmonizing Hormones by 7. 
4:45 -Work It, Johnny, Work It over The Air Daggers by 13. 
5:30 -Team Saliva over Aldehyde and the Keytons by 3. 
6:15 -The Exchange over We've Got Our 
Trophy by forfeit. Lyons 12 
4:00 -Nu!f Said over Viable Choppers of America by 16. 
4:45 -Hoopsters from Hell over Joint Effort by 12. 
5:30 -Mephistophelian Meatusus over Kermit & the California by 14. 
Tuesday's Games Stepan 1 
4:00 -Runnin' Rebels vs. Jerry's Kids 
4:45 -Mach 2, The D-Man, the Shoe-In ... vs. Best of the West 
5:30 -Flannery's Kids vs. The President, Beer 
& 3 Guys Who Like Them Stepan 2 
4:00 -Pete Kern & 4 Other Guys ... vs. 4 Guys Who Can Shoot . 
4:45 -Not A Chance In Hell vs. 5 Guys Who Want to Date Carnivores 
5:30 -Denisons of the Deep ... vs. Duggan & 
Guys Who've Slept . Stepan 3 
4:00 -Mattress Dames vs. Sigma Pi Fingjacks 
4:45 -Lunchbreak vs. Chicks and Booze 
5:30 -G-Man vs. We Only Want to Win Just 
One Stepan 4 
4:00 -Magnamious Chubbies vs. P I Delta V 4:45-Towers of Power vs. Team X 
5:30 -The Money Men vs. Ted Bundy & the 
Electrics Stepan 5 
4:00 -Woody Loves Lisa but Lisa Loves Us vs. Lou's School of Driving 
4:45 -Lenny's Meltones vs. Stapper, Prisby & the Leather Monkeys 
5:30 -We're Not Lovers, Their Our Sisters vs. 
Killerbees II Stepan 6 
4:00 -Charles Thompson & 4 Other Guys .. vs. Slow Train Coming 
4:45 -4 Guys Who You'd Like To Know ... vs. Crime Doesn't Pay 
5:30 -Thorn in a Cherry Bush vs. Rectifiers 
Bookstore 9 4:00-The Morning Missiles vs. Khomeni, Atas­si, & 3 Other Terrorists 
4:45 -Grad School Stinks vs. 5 Hodgemasters 
5:30 -Don King & 4 Other Sports Promoters 
vs. Andre's Seven Bookstore 10 
4:00 -Jeff and 4 Skins vs. 5 Bucks for 1 Man 
4:45 -Digger Stiffed Me a Tip at Coach's vs. Vermin Gong II 
5:30 -James & the Highway Robbers vs. 4 
Putzes and a Puke Lyons 11 
4:00 -3 EE's, Me & My Girlfriend vs. The Fish that Saves Pitt 
4:45 -No Fetching Allowed vs. Human Tripods 
5:30 -Dirty Dogs & a Good Reason ... vs. Just 
Gettin' the Feel . Lyons 12 
4:00 -We Dribble Before We Shoot vs. One Guy, Another Guy & 3 Others... 
4:45 -Mr Coffee & the Non-Dairy Creamers vs. One Jim-Bob Dodiotis . 
5:30 -The Cheese Factory vs. The Cotton Club 
-

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 until3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must
Classifieds 
be prepaid. The charge is I 0 cents per five characters per day. 
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks' Cash or Cred1t available! PANDORA'S BOOK 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 233-2342  Lost silver ring somewhere on campu It has a personalized inscription o it. If found please call 283-1584 Lost: Emerald & diamond ring set in gold. Great sentimental value. If found please call Kelly # 2756. Reward offered. FOR RENT BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219-291-7153.  TICKETS MONEY MONEY MONEY I NEED GRADUATION TIX and I can make it worth your while, call Dan at 3365. WE NEED A MIRACLEII!!! AT LEAST 2 TIX WANTED FOR SHOWS IN LOUIS­VILLE AND CINCINNATI. CALL DAN OR CHRIS AT 4079 OR LEAVE MESSAGE.  RIDE NEEDED: To Columbus Ohio,(or Ohio St.) Leave 417, return 4-9. Please call Laura at 284-5245. ................. "JUNIORS: HOW TO FILL OUT THE PROFILE FORM." KITTY ARNOLD OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER· VICES. TONIGHT AT 1':00 P.M., ROOM 123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. ALL MAJORS WELCOME. "JUNIORS: HOW TO FILL OUT THE PROFILE FORM." KITTY ARNOLD OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­ PATRICE JORDAN IS 22 TODAY!! DON'T WORRY, THERE'S NO "Russ" PROBLEMS IN SOUTH BEND! ENJOY TODAY, THE FUN DOESN'T END UN­TIL THE SHOW STOPS WEDNESDAY NIGHT ... rozel CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING Saturday April 8, 9:30pm at THEODORES Live Dance Music  WHY HELLO PHIL KRAKER! As far as you know,Frlday Is almost here!! Lets hope I don't get arrest ed or carried home In a body bag to night! Alii need Is a little more community service to keep me busy! Thanks for taking care of me, love, Molly HAPPY BIRTHDAY JOE HAPPY BIRTHDAY JOE  
Photographers needed Amateu")>rofesslonal for Australia. National Institute of Exploration June 20-July 13. Cost $3,300 Call Bruce 219-733·2170 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 277-7406 SOPHOMORES !!! Are you ready for advanced registra­tion on April 20th? Have you selected your major? If you answered no, consider register·  NICE FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. 287-6389, 683-8889. MALE GRADUATES FURNISHED ROOMS, AIR, KITCHEN, FRIDGE. 5 MINS. N. CAMPUS. 272· 0615. HOUSE FOR RENT OVER THE SUMMER-NEAR CAMPUS. 232-3616 SUMMER LODGING IN SOUTH BEND SUMMER SCHOOL? WORKING HERE? YOU NEED PRIVACY TO STUDY, REST, AND PLAY AT YOUR BEST CHECK OUT A TURTLE CREEK STUDIO CALL JIM AT 272·4788  If you won't be able to go and hear Martin Sheen's lecture tonight, could I please buy your ticket? I'd really like to hear his lecture. X3799 PERSONALS hlag hUMMER JOBS ALL LAND-WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-600-343·8373 ADOPTION-Caring, financially secure  VICES. TONIGHT AT 7:00 P.M. ROOM 123 NIEUWLAND SCIEoNCE HALL. ALL MAJORS WELCOME. ARE YOU INTRIGUED BY EXOTIC PLACES, FOREIGN TRAVELS, DIF­FERENT LANGUAGES, TRAINS, BOATS, MAPS, FOREIGN COINS, ETC? If so, then ND and SMC student governments invite you to a FREE Pizza Party WEDNESDAY APRIL 5, 4:30 PM IN THEODORE'S. ANYONE WHO HAS EVER STUDIED ABROAD, OR ANYONE WHO IS GOING NEXT YEAR IS INVITED! Get helpful hints, ask ques­tions, meet others who will be abroad, hear stories about how it will REALLY be! SENIORS Need 3 graduation tix. Will pay $$$ Call Tony 288-8345  Free admission THE PAST 7 MONTHS AND THE NEXT 6 WEEKS ARE ONLY THE BEGINNING. I LOVE YOU ALWAYS... I DO To the sex floor Flanner, You were so acrobatic Sat. night. We never thought such things could be done over the phone. Call again if bored. Love, Nikki, Gopher, and Sexpot "DOUG & JIM" The accidental receptionists of 1 1 8 Are you still the G&L Hotline? You know we need your help' Respond here. With hopes of your continued counseling, we are Frances, Heidi, Hester, Pollyanna, Louise, Bertha, and the Voice of Reason.  JOE NEWELL IS 20 TODAY WISH HIM A HAPPY BIRTHDAY! FOR SALE:5 PIRANHA WI TANK,FILTER, PUMP,ETC. CALL JIM 277-9956 ST.JUDE THANK YOU FOR PRAYERS ANSWERED TODAY AND TOMOR­ROW. C.B. In today's episode of Z BALLS WEEK, GEEK SONAN falls into a deep despair when, after a lover's spat, both his car & his computer, frustrated in their com­petition for his affection, leave him for other men. Call him at 341 9 & cheer him up with the code words, "Karen likes brown bananas."  
lng for the Careerlf.llajor Oeclslon Making Workshop starting the week of April 3rd at the University Counsel­Ing Center. Call 239-7336 to register or for more Information need ride to Michigan t~is wkend, $$, Mike x1723  HOME Sublet, May 22-Aug.15, Three rooms, all furnished,225 $ plus uti lilies, near Emporium, call 2882532 WANTED  couple of Irish and Swedish ancestry wish to love, cherish, and raise your new­born child. Legal and confidential. Please call Linda and Craig COLLECT: 212-877­3574 COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: Out· standing brother>illster sports camps on largest take In New England near "ON GOLDEN POND" site seek staff.  •••••SENIOFIS••••• SOUTH BEND WHITE SOX FRI APRIL 7 TIX ON s,~LE MON-THURS 3·5:30 SENIOR CLASS OFFICE $3 •••••SENIOAIS•••••  SKYDIVING CLASS EVERY WEEKEND DEAN 287·3024 Interested in starting an on·campus geographic club? GEOGRAPHIC CLUB INFORMATION NIGHT Thurs. April 6--Lafortune 6:30 Sorin Room  JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS Junior Formal PICS are in & may be picked up in the Class Office during regular hours. JUNIORS  - 
LOST/FOUND LOST LOST LOST BUILDING STRUC­ CAMP MILLHOUSE NEEDS WATERFRONT, NATURALIST, FINE ARTS, MALE COUNSELORS. ROOM, BOARD, INSURANCE, TIME OFF, COMPETITIVE PA~. JUNE 9-AUGUST 19. LEA 234-1169  ALL TRAVEL PAID. Call Collect: Roblndel (girls) 215-884-3326, Wlnaukee (boys) 203·227-4387 or see us on Thurs., Mar. 30, 10:30 AM·2PM -at LaFortune.  •••••SENIOAIS••••• CHICAGO TRIP WED APRIL 12 TIX ON s,~LE WED-FRI AIPR5·7 FROM 3·!iPM  JOHN TANSEY FOR FINANCE CLUB PRESIDENT!!!!! JOHN TANSEY· FINANCE CLUB PRES!! WHAT A GUY!!!  JUNIORS JUNIORS Take me out to the SB White Sox Home Opener. Friday Nite. Tickets $6 in the Junior Class Office.  
TURES TEXTBOOK GREY AND WHITE COVER HARDBOUND PLEASE CALL TERRY X2706 I REALLY NEED THIS BOOK!!! LOST: AEROBIE between SMC 'brare and dining hall on Easter Monday. If found, PLEASE call Patty at 284-4198 or leave at Regina Hall desk. Reward off ered!!!!!!! LOST-Black SEIKO watch the Thurs night before Spring Break, most likely at Bridget's. $REWARD$-x1142 LOST: Pair of keys. FSU and Notre Dame keychains. Call x4025 if found. FOUND: Set of keys in room 215 O'Shag. A University of Notre Dame Keychain­room 309. Call # 3688 to claim. LOST:Brown leather jacket at Senior Bar. Keep the jacket if you must, but I need my trout light key chain and the keys on it and the other stuff in the pockets. PLEASE CALL JULIE at 4929 or 277­3216. REWARD! No questions asked!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! LOST: glasses w.tlrown case, Wed. Mar. 29, somewhere between NOH, BP, and Holy Cross. Please call Jenny at 1293 if found. FOUND:BIFOCALS WITH BLUE FRAMES,OtliSIDE LIBRARY'S FOUN­TAIN & BY CCMB. CALL JOHN X1581 TO CLAIM  Triple A Student Painters Is Hiring lor Summer Positions Call NOW !!! 239-3683 FOR SALE BMW R900 Motorcycle. 1 976. 6 thousand orig. miles, excellent condition, brown, stock, $2200. 872-7315. NEW LONDON LAKE CONDOMINIUM Condo faces pool that's surrounded by a lake stocked with bass. Features 2 large bdrms, 2 baths, all appliances, 2 car garage & new carpet throughout. Located on Ironwood at Bulla. Close to everything. $77,700. Call Janice Hll· dabrldle at Cressy & Everett233-6141 or 233-8883. NEED A CAR? '81 SUBARU,FWD,108K $925 OR DECENT OFFER CALL 3554 For Sale: 1 way ticket from O'HARE to Portland,OR 5'13 at 10 A.M.$175 Call Mary P. at X 4015. FORSALE-used motorcycle helmet, 1 yr NolanN33,red,like new,$7&b.offer call Markus 256-7139 JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS Class of '90 Dog Books are IN! Pick yours up in the Class Office NOWI!! Price is $10.  FOREIGN STUDENTS Job-Hunting Guide (Rev. 1989). Send $19.95 for the step-by-step guide. lvysolt, PO Box 241090, Memphis, TN 38124 Georgetown, Columbia, U Wisconsin, U of California, U of Massachusetts and Harvard are in step. NDAAN SCAP ..... The Word of the Future!!! Use it NOW!! "".SENIORs•••.. ALL YOU CAN EAT NIGHT AT BARNABY'S TONIGHT FROM 5-7 HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS SUM· MER (OR ANYTIME)? Jet there from Chicago Detroit, or Cleveland for no more than $229, or from the East Coast for no more than $160 with AIR­HITCH(TM), as reported In Consumer Reports, NY Times, Let's Go, and na· tiona! network morning shows. For details, call 212-664-2000 or write: AIRHITCH(TM) 2901 Broadway, Suite 100G, NY, NY 10025 .. SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL LAST CHANCE TO BUY BIDS Wed. April 5, 7-9pm in LaFortune Get measured for tux, arrange table seating, and room reservations. All clubs & organizations must now re­register for the 89-90 academic year. Ap­plications in Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune. Deadline is April 14.  SENIOR CLAS!; OFFICE •••••SENIORts••••• HELP! I need one GRADUATION TICKET for my CUTE SISTER!!! Will pay $$$$$$$$! Please call Mike at 1082 SOPHOMORES Applications for Junior Parents' Weekend Chairperson available In Student Activities. Due Friday, April 7 by 5 pm. SOPHOMOFIES!! TICKETS ON SALE TODAY FOR SPRING FORMAL FROM 3-5 IN THE SOPHOMORE CLASS OFFICE. DON'T MISS IT!! SOPHOMORIESI! BP ! SPIRIT WEEK ! APRIL 2-8 BP BP BP BP BIP BP BP Happy Birthday Molly Mahoney!! We all love you and hope you have a great birthday! Maybe you will eeven get lucky with Phil. We all love you, Love Mary, Sunshine, Danny, and Phil Five months ago, you at19 food you hated at a cheap all-night diner, walked over two miles in the freezing cold with an injured heel and stayed up till 7 am· just to be with me. I hope it's been worth it. Happy Anniversary-I love you.  I fasted and prayed to St. Jude for 10 days for my friend's health and now, a month later, her problems are only a memory. Thank you, St. Jude. Please pardon my lack of faith. Thanks be to God. Yours in Christ...a friend. Put your faith in God. Peace MR.STANFORD IS COMING! MR.STANFORD IS COMING! MR.STANFORD IS COMING! MR.STANFORD IS HERE!!!!!!! TIX AVAILABLE $2 MR.STANFORD CONTEST SATURDAY APRIL 8th 7:00pm LIBRARY AUDITORIUM SCAPPY QUOTES: 1 )We came this close 2)How about an ice cream cone? 3)1 see nine--a baseball team 4)She wants to be a den mother! 5)The cactus is dead, the cactus is dead! HEH KC, ALIAS SWEENEY SISTER! Have faith, rain Is In the forecast and the drought will soon be over. If you are lucky, there might even be a mon­soon!Trust In Mother Nature your pal, Molly HEH PHIL KRAKER! MAKE SURE YOU DON'T GET SEWN TO THE WALL! I HOPE YOU GET LUCKY ON APRIL 4TH, LOVE, MARY  The top 10 Dunes Quotes 10 They're like ocean creatures 9 Bodysurfing.8 Can I have my knife back?? Let's see how fast I can drive and still get the toll ticket 6 Munchos!!S You cephalopod!4 GOD took my tix.3 Which way is east? 2 It IS a nuclear reactor ... 1 it's FLINTNAPPING!! Hey, you WILD THING! Just want you to know that you're terrific!! And don't you forget it! I know it's tough but we're gonna make it! .. Trust me! P.S. Want some gum?·--' BEWARE!!! Cindy "HIPS" Harvey is 21 today' Have a good one---love MO HEAR YE! HEAR YE! I now proclaim the men from first floor Stanford Hall are the greatest in the land! I love you guys. Love, Julie If anyone sees DAVE BRENNAN (the Senior) today, tell him that his sister said "hello." "KAREN CARAHER Is 21 TODAY!" Re­member Karen, you are now responsible for all your actions!! HAPPY 22nd BIRTHDAY BRENDA KROSS!! I HEAR YOU AREN'T DRINK­ING ANYMORE, BUT THAT DOESN'T MEAN YOU CANT LOOK AND TOUCH AT TIVOLI'S ON WEDNESDAY NIGHT!!! SEE YOU THERE! love, rozel  - 

-

-------....., 
The Observer Tuesday, April 4, 1989
page a 

Golf team finishes seventh 
Scott signs 1for $3.9 million 
By DAVE McMAHON Sports Writer 
Men's golf coach George Thomas returned from his alma mater with a seventh place finish in the season opener for the Irish at Purdue University's South Course. 
Notre Dame finished with a team total of 639 for the 36-hole event, which included Big 10 representatives Iowa and Wis­
consin, along with the Boiler­
~~~t~~~naf~~~u:sc~~nofst:S~ 
beating the Hawkeyes by one stroke. Eastern Michigan took 
third with 611, followed by Southern Illinois (620), Wiscon­sin (624), Ball State (632) and 

Sophomore Paul Nolta led the Irish with a 77 on the first day before ending with a second day score of 80. 
"I'm hitting the ball better than I have in a while," said Nolta. "It's taken a while to get used to coach's new technique, but I'm starting to get used to it." 
That new technique installed by Thomas has forced the team to abandon all other strategies 
and concentrate solely on the 
swJ~f~ forced the third round 
cancellation after Purdue co­ach Joe Campbell found "casual water" on the fifth 
green, which hurt the chances of an Irish comeback. 
;.;,N,;;.;ot;:.re;;;..:;,D,;;,am;;;;,;,;.e.;.________".;;.I_w_a..;.s.;.ve.;..r.:;.y~p..;le_a_se_d_w_it_h_t_he
-
NCAA 
continued from page 12 back for Michigan with a 3­
pointer with 1:03 to play. 
After Morton threw up an air-ball with 53 seconds left, Mic­higan ran the clock down to 34 seconds before Sean Higgins made two free throws for the three-point lead that was erased by Morton's 3-pointer. 
Michigan had a chance for victory in regulation, but Rice missed a long jumper with two seconds to play. 
Higgins added 10 points and nine rebounds for Michigan, 30­
7. Rice added 11 rebounds. 
Walker and Greene each finished with 13 points for Seton Hall, 31-7, which was making its first Final Four appearance in just its second NCAA tourn-

Seton Hall stayed outside in the first half with 14 of its 32 field goal attempts coming from 3-point range, while Mic­
higan decided to test things in­side. 
The problem for the Pirates, who averaged 14 3-pointers per game in the regular season, was that they only managed to make four of the long jumpers. The last two by Greene and Morton capped a 12-0 run that turned a six-point deficit into a 26-20 lead with 6:48 left in the first half. 
Michigan answered with an 8-2 run of its own to even things at 28-28 with 4: 12 to play as Rice surrounded two driving hoops by Robinson with two free throws and a jumper. 
Ramos gave the Pirates their final lead of the first half with 
....,.a,_m..e-n-.t.~....~~-~arare visit W fue ~~ 
Free Fun Flicks Wednesday 
featuring: 

-
THE APPLE DUMPLING GANG doors open at 8:00/ movie begins at 8:15 
Pre-Law Society 

Spring General Meeting 
Wednesday/ April 5th 
7:00pm 

-
in the tiesburgh Library Auditorium 
Presentation to be given will be focused towards Seniors-to-be. However, all are encouraged to attend. 
progress the guys showed 
going into the third round," said Thomas, who played for Purdue in 1950, when they won the Big 10 Championship and were eventual NCAA runner­up. "Our players were two or three over on the 14th and 15th greens. I feel we would have been in a better position had play continued." 
Eastern Michigan's Kevin Janisik snagged 
medalist r--·-·-·-..---·--------------1 
~~~~~s N:i~b:rou~~~e0fpl~~~; IGRAD CLUB MOVIE OF THE WEEK~~~ ~oug ~iorgio was one sho~ be-! THE COLOR PURPLE i hmd Insh leader Nolta with a I ! 
158. Pat Mohan shot 160, D:J. 1 8:30 pm WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5 I 
Romano carded a 165 and Jim I soN· COMMONS I 
McCarthy tallied a 168 for WIL i N_o_tr_e_D_a_m_e_.-----"TAKE IT EASY" HOUR i
1 
in the opening 20 minutes for I 4 : 30 FRIDAY I 
Seton Hall. I WILSON COMMONS I 
Rice then hit Michigan's only I REFRESHMENTS PROVIDED I , 3-pointer of the half 19 seconds 
L-------·-·-------·---·-·-·-·;_,.1
later and the Wolverines, who took 19 of their 30 shots in the half from 10 feet or closer, ended the half with a 6-2 run for the 37-32 halftime lead. 
SUMMER CAMP 
POSITIONS 

Counselors: 21 +, coed, 
sleepaway camp, Mass. 
Berkshires. WSI, arts & 
crafts, tennis, all land and water sports, drama, gymnastics, piano/play for shows, judo, dance, photography, computers, nature, Wilderness, model rocketry, guitar, yearbook, woodworking, RN, typist, 
Write: Camp Emerson, 
5 Brassie Rd, 

Eastchester, NY 1 0707 
or call 914/779-9406 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON--Mike Scott, the 1986 Cy Young Award winner, agreed Monday to a two-year contract extension with the Houston Astros worth a guaranteed $3.925 million. 
Scott, who will earn $1.3 million in 1989, the final year of a two-year contract, will have a base salary of $1.95 million in 1990 and 1991. He will also get a $25,000 signing bonus. 
He would make an addi­tional $450,000 if he pitches 205 innings or makes 32 starts in each of the 1989 and 1990 seasons. 
The contract contains ad­ditional bonuses for making the All-Star team. 


With hand rolled crust as only Gina's makes It and 
PARTY STORE 
2640 South 3rd. at Bertrand Road Niles, Michigan 
684-5930 

As Near As Your Phone 
Hours: Tuesday 4 -9 p.m. Friday and Saturday 4 -12 p.m. Wednesday, Thursday, Sunday 4-11 p.m. 
Getting into the right Law School takes a lot more than just getting a high score on the new l.SAT It takes knowing how to master the new exam and knowing the intricacies of the application process. 
That's why Stanley H. Kaplan created the Law School Seminar. There, you'lllearn how to improve your chances of getting into the Law School of your choice. Review actuall.SAT questions. Even learn about getting the highest score on your l.SAT by using the Kaplan method. And most importantly, you'lllearn how to maximize your Law School apphcanon. 
So reserve your seat today for our next Seminar. And discover how our advanced teaching methods and 50 years of experience can help you plan the next three years of your life. 
~STANLEY H. KAPlAN ! Take Kaplan Or TakeYour Chances 
KAPLAN EDOC.ATIONIAL CENT£R 
1711 [. SOOTH IEIND A\1£•. 
SOOTH BE:IND, IINI 46637 
219/272--4135 

SATURDAY, APRIL 8, 3 P.M. 

Tuesday, April 4, 1989 The Observer page 9 
Rose leaves controversybehind in seasonopener 

Associated Press 
CINCINNATI--Pete Rose basked in adulation instead of accusation, still a hero in his hometown. 
Gambling allegations against the Cincinnati manager were pushed aside for a minute Monday when a sel­lout crowd of 55,385 stood and cheered and chanted "Pete! pete!" and Reds owner Marge Schott planted a kiss on his cheek. 
"I guess my favorite thing is just the fact that baseball's started again," Rose said. 
There had been some ques­tion whether Rose would be there this year when the Reds opened against the World Se­
ries  champion  Los  Angeles  
Dodgers.  
But  with  major  league  

baseball's investigation of Rose still incomplete, he was sitting in the dugout on a sunny afternoon doing one of the things he enjoys most--talking baseball. 
"You always know it's going to be a good crowd when it's 10 minutes after 12 o'clock and you look and there's people already in the Bob Uecker seats," Rose said, glancing at the upper deck. 

T­
25 Big 
(Happy)
Onczs! 
Thanks. and love. 
B .. 
! graduate student
~~ 

~y 
The Graduate Student Union is interested in dynamic graduate students to be GSU officers for the 1989-90 academic year, and the 1989 Summer Session. 
Positions available are: SECRETARY, INFORMATION OFFICER, and SOCIAL OFFICER. 

Applications and job descriptions are available from the GSU office, Room 307, LaFortune Student Cenrre. 
Deadline: March 14, 1989 
.
un1on 
Officers 1989-90 
Reds 6, Dodgers 4 
Paul O'Neill played the hero's role in Monday's opening-day game against the Dodgers with a three-run homer Monday that carried the Cincinnati Reds over the World Series champion Los Angeles Dodgers 6-4 in the first game of the major league season. 
The 103rd opening day in Cin­cinnati gave Rose some respite from two weeks of gambling al­legations that have clouded his future. 
The Reds made three errors in the first inning to help the Dodgers score a pair of un­earned runs off Danny Jackson. 
Jackson gave up four runs, two of them earned, on four hits in five innings and got the vic­tory. John Franco, who led the National League with 39 saves, pitched two hitless innings for a save. 
O'Neill went 4-for-4 to lead the Reds' comeback. He doubled to start a three-run rally in the second and hit a three-run homer in the third for a 6-2 lead against Tim Belcher, who lasted just 2 1-3 innings. 
The Dodgers never got closer than two runs despite more heroics by Kirk Gibson, their star in Game 1 of the World Se­ries last fall. Gibson got the first hit of the season, an RBI single in the first inning, and hit a solo home run in the fifth. 

Mets 8, Cardinals 4 
Howard Johnson homered and drove in three runs that led New York past the St. Louis Cardinals 8-4 Monday as the Mets won their 11th straight home opener. 
Overall, the Mets have won five consecutive season openers and 18 of their last 20 and have not lost an opening­day game at Shea Stadium since dropping an 11-10 deci­sion to Montreal on April 8, 1969. 
The Mets, who joined the Na­tional League in 1962, lost their first eight season openers before winning in Pittsburgh in 1970. 
The Cardinals played with­out All-Star shortstop Ozzie Smith, who has a strained muscle in his left side. 
Johnson, a part of many trade rumors during the winter, hit a two-run single during a four­run third inning that made it 6-3 against Joe Magrane. He hit a solo homer in the eighth off Todd Worrell. 
CLUBS & ORGANIZATIONS All clubs & organizations must now re-register for the 1989-90 academic year. Applications are now available .in the Student Activities Office, 3rd Floor LaFortune. Applications include: 
1) Registration Form 
2) Funding Request 
3) Office Space Request 
4) Football Concession Stand Request 
Applications deadline is APRIL 19. 
good defensive line, and that

·············~~~f'ilti<=)i'f············: 
creates some problems for us." Has the 1988 national cham­
pionship satisfied the offensive 

FRESHMEN & ~ 
line's hunger? SOPHOMORES: "So far everything I see they 
DePARTMENT PRESENTATIONS Tuesday 414 
5:30-6:30  American Studies  
104 O'Shaughnessy  
7-8  Anthropology  
7-8  215 O'Shaughnessy Economics  
104 O'Shaughnessy  

tO~\) X;.~c,U~'{ 
\!\ :\t. 

Jefferson Boulevard Phone (219) 259-1981
f\ f'\\.)~ ~09 E 

~, t"V 
PO Box 370 Elkhart Area CaH (219) 674·9926 \].~~ M•shawaka. 11~ 46545 Indiana Toll Free (800) 451~6 
??-oG?-~ 
$400 REBATE* 
Largest Ford Inventory #1 Selling Ford Dealer in Country For furrther information, call Elizabeth 
* This is in addition to any present program 
• • '; .. t • '; .._ • ~ 
.---... ELIZABETH C. HOWL
JORDAN 
New & Used Cars & Trucks 
FORD 

Ext. 667 
lOYOlA 

VOLVO
--~ 

Darryl Strawberry had three hits and two runs batted in for the Mets and Dwight Gooden pitched seven-plus innings for the victory to improve his opening-day record to 3-0. He allowed five hits and struck out eight. 
Orioles 5, Red Sox 4 
The Baltimore Orioles, losers of their first 21 games last year, won their season opener Mon­day, beating the American League East champion Boston Red Sox 5-4 on Craig Wor­thington's 11th-inning single. 
Boston's Roger Clemens was chased in the eighth inning. 
In the ninth, Baltimore put runners on first and third for Worthington, who grounded out. But the rookie came through in the 11th after Mickey Tettleton walked and took third on Randy Milligan's hit-and-run single. 
After Mike Smithson replaced Bob Stanley, Wor­thington flared a 1-0 pitch into left-center field past Ellis Burks' dive, foiling a Boston formation of five infielders. 
Brian Holton, acquired in an off-season trade that sent Eddie Murray to Los Angeles, pitched 4 1-3 scoreless innings for the victory. 
Indians 2, Brewers 1 
Oddibe McDowell doubled in two runs in his first game for Cleveland and Greg Swindell allowed five hits in 8 1-3 innings Monday as the Indians beat the Milwaukee Brewers 2-1. 
Swindell retired the first 12 batters he faced until Rob Deer and Glenn Braggs hit consecu­tive singles starting the fifth. Deer scored from third on Terry Francona's forceout. 
Swindell struck out six and walked none. Mike Felder reached on a bunt single to open the ninth and Gary Shef­field sacrificed. Doug Jones came in and got Robin Yount on a groundout and struck out Deer for the save. 
Blue Jays 4, Royals 3 
Jimmy Key won on opening 
day for the third straight year 
and Fred McGriff and Lloyd 
Moseby got two hits each Mon­
day, leading the Toronto Blue 
Jays past Kansas City 4-3. 
Key, who beat the Royals 5-3 
in last season's opener, gave up 
two runs on six hits in six in­
nings. Mark Gubicza, drawing 
his first opening-day assign­
ment after a 20-8 record, al­
lowed four runs on nine hits in 
seven innings and took the loss. 
Line 
continued from page 12 
Gorman will fill the No.2 spot 
behind Ryan. 
"On what I have seen so far, Tom Gorman has come along way and Mirko Jurkovic has too," said Holtz. "I have seen Gene McGuire do some good things. But like everyone else, we have some question marks, and we are going up against a 
• 
want to be a great line," said : Moore. "They have great uni­

• 
ty, and care for one another. Also, our backups have showed some promise. The main thing is that if the kids get satisfied with themselves, then you are going to have trouble making them better. But if the kids want to be as good as they can be, our offensive line should be outstanding. Right now we are optimistic, and once again it boils down to what is inside." 


FREE 
TANNING 

Mishawaka Indian Ridge Plaza (Next to Venture) Hours: Daily 9-8 
Grape Rd. Sat. 9·6 
2n·7946 Sun. 11-5 

Tuesday, April 4, 1989

page 10 The Observer 
SPORTS BRIEFS
ND track wins big at G'town 
Irish Outdoors will have a meeting today at 7:30p.m. 
in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. Plans for the April 
Irish take 11 of 16 events in unscored outdoor meet 
By KEN TYSIAC Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's track team enjoyed a strong showing Saturday, winning 11 out of 16 events in its unscored meet at Georgetown. The Irish over­came poor weather and a surprise decision by their hosts to outrun their Big East foes. 
Georgetown surprised Irish coach Joe Piane by deciding not to score the meet, which was held at Episcopal High School in Arlington, Virginia. Piane took the decision in stride. 
"They're the home team," said Piane. "If they don't want to score the meet, that's their prerogative." 
The meet was also run in very unfavorable weather con­ditions. 
"None of the times were very good--it was a pretty poor day for running," said Piane, "but that did not detract from our atheletes' ability to compete against our opponents." 
Indeed, the Irish competed very well against the highly re­garded Hoyas. The 4x100 meter relay team and the Mile relay team each nosed out their op­ponents by one tenth of a second, posting times of 0:43.8 and 3:19.6, respectively. 

The field athletes also out­scored their Georgetown foes. John Cole won the high jump with a leap of 6 feet, 6 inches while Greg Matteo cleared the 12-6 mark to win the pole vault. 
Freshman John Stewart threw the javelin 181 feet, four inches, over 26 feet further than his nearest competitor, team­mate Ron Regnery. The Irish also took first and second place in the shot put and the discus throw. 
Notre Dame added addi­tional first place finishes in the 110-and 400-meter hurdles. Glenn Watson, coming off knee surgery, won the 110 meters with a time of 15.0 seconds, while Pete Demeo captured the 400 meters in 55.6 seconds. 
"The hurdles are tough to run on a day like that because the wind throws you off balance as you jump over them," said Irish co-captain Ron Markezich. "Pete's running very well for us, and likewise we're pleased with what Glenn has been doing coming back from his operation." 
Markezich ran in the 5,000­meters event, in which Irish teammates Mike Drake and Rob Fern took first and second place, while he came in third. "For Ron it was just a workout," said coach Piane, "Whenever one of the other guys (Drake or Fern) fell back, Ron would move over into the second lane, shield the wind, and pick his teammate up again." 
Ron's team play paid off as the Irish swept the first three spots in the 5,000. "I tried to help those guys by blocking the wind," said Markezich, "It really helps the team to go one­two-three in a race like that." 
Coach Piane was pleased with his team's performance as they now look ahead to the Stanford Invitational, sched­uled for April 15. 
"It turned out to be a really good trip for us. We accom­plished a lot of things," said the 14th-year coach. 
SO club refuses to give up America's Cup 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO--The San Diego Yacht Club on Monday refused to surrender the America's Cup while contesting the court­ordered forfeiture of the trophy to defeated New Zealand chal­lenger Michael Fay. 
"We believe that we are so right and the decision was so wrong, not only for us but for the future of the Cup," said Patrick Goddard, San Diego Yacht Club commodore. 
"Our decision to appeal was not an easy one and was reached with care and deliber­ation," Goddard said. "Going to court is not our preference. For over 100 years we have been sailors and competitors, and we believe that yacht races should be decided on the water." 

The appeals process could take about a year, leaving adrift the fate of the next Cup race. 
The filing with the appellate division of the New York Su­preme Court will ask that it overturn last week's decision by New York State Supreme Court Justice Carmen Ciparick that disqualified the club's use of a catamaran against New Zealand's monohull. 
Goddard said more was at issue than the potential loss of a $1.2 billion economic windfall the San Diego region expecte~ to realize from staging a full­fledged regatta in 1991. 
STUDENT BUSINESS BOARD 
is now taking applications for 
ASSISTANT GENERAL MANAGER 
Requirements: 
• 
Sophomore or Junior Business Major 

• 
Available 10-15 hours per week 


Responsibilities: 
• 
Assist the Gen. Manager in overseeing the operation of Irish Gardens, The Cellar, & Adworks 

• 
Perform accounting & financial duties 

• 
Participate in special projects 


Applications available at the Secretary's desk (2nd floor LaFortune). Completed applications due, same place, by Monday, April tO at 5 pm 
For more information, call: 
Dan @ 239-8040 or Molly@ 283-4976 

He said "the pride and dig­nity" of the yacht club also was on the line. 
Fay's challenge, which upset San Diego's plan for a 1991 mul­tinational race and spawned
the continuing series of legal skirmishes, was launched un­der the banner of the Mercury 
Bay Boating Club. Dennis Conner skippered the SDYC's 60-foot catamaran, Stars & Stripes, to an easy sweep of Fay's 133-foot, single-
hulled sloop. 

THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESENTS A SERIES OF LECTURES 


•••••••• PROFESSOR ~~ORA O'NEILL ••••••••
!iiiiiii DEPARTMENT OF PHILOSOPH¥iiilli 
.iiiilll UNIVERSITY OF ESSEX :lllilil 
Monday, April 3, 8:00 P.M. "Reasons and Politics in the Kantian Enterprise" Room 131 -Decio Hall 
(sponsored by the Philosophy Department) 
Tuesday, April 4, 4:00 P.M. "Justice and Virtues" Room 220-Law School Auditorium 
(sponsored by the Natural Law Forum) 
" Wednesday:, April 5, 12:00 noon Paternalism and Partial Autononmy" Room 220 -Law School Auditorium (sponsored by the Thomas J. White Center) 
Thursday, April 6, 4:00P.M. "Gender and Moral Theory" Room 115 -Law School 
22 Dunes trip and a post-exam trip to Cumberland Island will be discussed -The Observer 
Women's Bookstore Basketball teams may pick up schedules and rules from 2 to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday at the SUB office. -The Observer 
Rolfs Aquatic Center will be open additionally from 4 to 6:30p.m. weekdays. A long course (50 m) set-up will be in place Tuesdays and Thursdays during these hours. 
-The Observer 
The Sailing Club will hold a meeting tonight at 6:30 
p.m. at the boathouse. Signups for further spring events will be conducted at this time. -The Observer 
The Blue-Gold Game will be held Saturday, April 22, at 1:30p.m. in the stadium. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be admitted upon presentation of an ID card at gates 15 and 16. Spouses and children must have a ticket. General admission tickets for the public are available from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Saturday at gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. Adult tickets are $3 in advance and $4 game day. Youth tickets are $1.50 in advance and $2 the day of the game. -The Observer 
The Men's Volleyball Club has tentatively scheduled an Open 4-Man Volleyball Tournament for Wednesday night in the JACC. Players will be assigned to either an advanced or intermediate division, and be placed on a team according to position. All Notre Dame students and staff are welcome. Play will begin at 7:00, with warmups starting at 6:00. A $4 entry fee will benefit the club. Contact Jim Sullivan at x1844. -The Observer 
r-------------~------,
FREE 
SCHOLARSHIP INFORMATION FOR STUDENTS WHO NEED 
MONEY FOR COLLEGE 
Every Student is Eligible for Some Type of Financial Aid Regardless of Grades or Parental Income. 
• 
We have a data bank of over 200,000 listings of scholarships, 

fellowships, grants, and loans. representing over $10 billion in private sector funding.

• 
Many scholarships are given to students based on their academic interests, career plans, family heritage and place of residence. 

• 
There's money available for students who have been newspaper car­riers, grocery clerks, cheerleaders, non-smokers ...etc. 

• 
Results GUARANTEED. 


• 

CALL For A Free Brochure •] 
ANYTIME (800) 346-6401 ti
L--------------------=--.J 

Tuesday, April 4, 1989 The Observer page 11 
CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 


BLOOM COUNTY BERKE BREATHED THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WAHERSON 
~ NC, ~\'-! <J..N nilS BE. I'M 9::) SCAA.ED ! I 11\INK 11-\t'i MAKE ~PPENING ?> I'Vt. BtEN W\-lAT A~ l 0011'\G TI-lE \.lr>.\L 1tl TI\E TO SEE. TI-l£ P!i/NCIPAL .1 10 00?1' PRit-lCII'AlS Of=FICE 11-\IS IS t-.lL CAI.VINS FA\JLT! nus BIG-oo ~E 's ntt: ~t. W\.10 GOT 1'\E. PVRPCS:.. 

-
IN ALL 1\\I'S "TROUBLE~ 
"And, oh my goodness! ... Aren't the children getting long!" 
American Values IAmerican Film Discussion withTues, April 4 Gene Siskel Discussion with on Thursday has been cancelled.Martin Sheen Refunds available at LaFortune at Cushing Auditorium Information Desk Tickets available at LaFortune Information Desk Possible rescheduling to be announced sponsored by College of Business Administration, Departments of English,American Srudies, Student ~ Sociology,Comm.&Theater,Marketing, Educational Media Government ~  

7 p.m. Communication and Theatre film "The Married Wo­man," Annenberg Auditorium. 7 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents "Juniors: How to fill out the Profile form," by Kitty Arnold, Room 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
8 p.m. GSU debate "Israeli's and Palestinians: New Prospects for Peace," Theodore's. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Noon Kellogg Instutute brown bag seminar: "State-Labor Relations and Democratic Consolidation in the Southern Cone," by Paul Buchanan, Room 131 Decio. 
4 p.m. Kellogg Institute and History Department lecture: "In the Heart of Darkness: An Attempt to Interpret Colonialism,'' by Jan Kieniewicz of Indiana University, Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
4 p.m. Peace Institute lecture: "Modern War and the Chris­tian Conscience," by Dr. Gordon Zahn of the Center for Con­science and War, Room 120 Law School. 
• 

8 p.m. American Values·'American Film lecture series presents Martin Sheen, Engineering Auditorium. 
4:15p.m. Beta Alpha Psi presents James Lafond of Coopers and Lybrand speaking on "A Perspective on the Accounting Profession," in Room 122 Hayes-Healy. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Fish Bunwich Pork Chops 
Veal Parmesan 3-Hour Stew 
Roast Turkey Lazy Daisy Meatballs 
Broccoli Casserole No Peek Chicken 
COMICS 
ACROSS 25 The best 5·7 Aesop fable's ending
31 Cut short a space trip 58 Sere 1 Kind of 

saxophone 5"-Me,"1931 32 Streisand so Nick and Nora's song vehicle pooch 
10 Rodent 33 LA athlete 61 Century plant resembling a 
36 Buckyof 6·2 Word with room guinea pig 
baseball or help 14 Whisky-(bar 
37 Avert 63 Certain veggies 
drink) 39 Food fish 64 Did a steno's job
15 Jeweler's magnifying lens 40 Culbertson 65 Broadway attraction
16 Novelist Wister 41 Canine name 11 Sharpen meaning "I am faithful"
18 Simple 
DOWN organism 42 Ship's crane 1 Residue 
19 Slender and tall 
43 The best 

2 She wrote 
20 The best 
46 Continued story 

"Gentlemen
23 Dos Passos 
49 Letters after ens Prefer Blondes" 
trilogy 50 The best 3 Sandwich 
24 Movements of 
favorite

sonatas 56 Jungle sound 4 Pitcher Hershiser 5 Not quite ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 6 Tropical vine of the gourd family 7 Fontanne's partner .;.+:~~ · 8 Colorful fish 9 Unite into a league 
..=.+:~:..j...:.. .-.::~+=-1 10 Gdansk's country -=+::..j.!.!+=-1 11 Obie or Edgar -=+:,:..+:::..et=-t 12 One hundred, in I tali a 13 Crosses in Egyptian art .:;+:~-1-:-1 21 Clump of grass 
..:...+:-~~ 22 Years upon years 
25 Lose freshness 26 First victim of fratricide 27 Singer Bennett 
28 Worthless morsel 
29 "Till the­Time," 1945 song 
30 Kind of wrench 
33 Sitarist Shankar 
34 Related 35 Apportion 
37 Government negotiator 38 "-you know the muffin man" 39 Actor Linden 41 Froth 42 An Edomite, to Esau: Abbr. 43 Diadems 
44"-andto Hold": M. Johnston 
45 Well--(in the money) 
46 Bout 47 Uneven 48 Ranch in 
Ferber's "Giant" 
51 Fuddy-duddy 52 Snare 53 Incline 
54 Evangelist Roberts 
55 Bread of the Middle East 
59 Susan-of "LA Law" 

Sports
page 12 Tuesday, April 4, 1989 
Wolverines defeat Seton Hall in overtime 
the title with 31 points in the final, Michigan brought the ball pointer with 25 seconds remaining to
Associated Press 

giving him an NCAAA tournament downcourt and Robinson began a tie the game 71-71. Michigan led 59-49 
SEATTLE--Rumeal Robinson made record 184, breaking the 24-year-old drive to the basket when he was fouled on a 3-pointer by Rice with 8:26 to go. two free throws with three seconds left mark of 177 set by Bill Bradley of before shooting. Robinson nailed the Seton Hall ran off eight straight in overtime to give Michigan its first Princeton. free throws and, after two Pirate points, Morton scoring the last six national championship and cap the Robinson, who finished with 21 timeouts, a final desperation 3-pointer and, after an exchange of free throws, improbable ride of interim head coach points and 11 assists, got his chance banged off the glass and rim and Mic­Rice hit a 3-pointer that gave him the Steve Fisher with an 80-79 victory over to be the hero when he was fouled by higan had its first national champion­NCAA tournament scoring record and Seton Hall Monday night. Gerald Greene, who had missed the ship in three title-game appearances. the Wolverines a 64-59 lead with 6:05 
Fisher had taken over the Michigan front end of a one-and-one with 1: 17 Michigan lost to UCLA 91-80 in 1965 to play. team just two days before the NCAA remaining and Seton Hall leading 79-and to Indiana 86-68 in 1976. With Michigan leading 66-61, Mor­tournament began and coached them 76. Rice opened the overtime with a ton ripped off six straight points as to the six victories needed for the na­Terry Mills hit a turnaround jumper jumper that was answered by Andrew Seton Hall's defense came away with tional championship. with 56 seconds left to bring the Wol­Gaze's 3-pointer, his first field goal of two steals, and the Pirates had their 
The championship game was the verines within one with 56 seconds the game. The teams exchanged leads first lead of the second half with 2: 14 fifth to go into overtime and the first remaining. Seton Hall worked the 45-three more times, with Seton Hall's to play. A free throw by Daryll Walker since Loyola, Ill., beat Cincinnati 60-58 second shot clock down and John final lead coming on a 3-pointer by gave the Pirates a two-point advan­in 1963. Morton, who finished with 35 points, Morton with 2: 41 to play. tage and Rice once again got the lead 
Glen Rice was the player who tossed up an airball with 11 second Morton scored 22 of Seton Hall's last carried Fisher and the Wolverines to left. 28 points in regulation, including a 3-see NCAA I page 8 
Bookstore basketball begins 
80 teams compete despite bad weather on opening day 
By FRANK PASTOR Matt O'Donnell and Sean 19-of-115 shooting for a .165 Assistant Sports Editor Hickey paced the Brick scoring mark. attack with five points apiece. The MBA Bulls edged The 
Eighty teams braved inter­At the opposite end of the Posse 21-18 behind Dennis mittent rains as Bookstore Bas­spectrum, Rigid Structures McSweeney's 10 baskets. Bill ketball XVIII got off to a fast and No, No, Mo! The Other Anderst canned eight shots to and furious, if somewhat wet, Basket dropped the most lead The Posse. start Monday, cutting the decisive contests of the day. Tim Bolden, whose team record field to 632 teams. Human Tripods defeated Rigid reached the Final 32 last 
Four games were decided by Structures 21-3 and Three En­season, hit 10 hoops to lead the forfeit, presumably a result of gaged Guys and Two Wasting Heat Misers over Goldrick's the unfavorable weather condi­Away Their Sexual Prime Worst Nightmare, 21-5. tions. crushed No, No, Mo! by an In addition to the regular 
Five Larry Birds Who Can't identical 21-3 margin. awards presented at the con­Shoot proved they could by clusion of the tournament, downing A Fireman, A Gar­Bookstore veteran Xavier Bookstore Commissioner Mike dener and Three Guys Who Will Creary's Wade Boggs and the Manning announced an addi­Hose You Down, 23-21 in the Heavy Lumber-Swingers tional prize to go to the team most exciting game of the day. slugged it to the Soy Barrage, witb the most original gim­The Birdmen were led by Mike 21-17. Ben Garrett led the mi~c He cited last year's Casey and Eric Brandenberg, Lumber-Swingers with 10 bas­"Peanut Butter and Jelly Sand­who scored seven and six bas­kets and Notre Dame kick wich" team as a great exam­kets, respectively. boxing legend Sweet C. Robin­ple. 
"It was a very physical son added five of his own. Manning also reminded game," said Brandenberg, who Corrines beat The Twin Tow­teams that they are required to hit the winning hoop for the ers, Fridge, Shorty and Me 21-provide a sixth person to keep Birdmen. "We were down 18-13 19 despite 0-for-25 shooting score at their games. In addi­at one point and came back from Vince Duncan, the early tion, the team listed at the top really well down the stretch." favorite for the Hoosier Award. of the schedule is to wear light 
Swish, Swish, Brick also won Corrines' dismal .181 shooting clothing to the game and the a close game, prevailing 21-19 percentage was bypassed only team listed at the bottom over The Everlasting Renob. by The Twin Towers' wretched should dress in dark clothing. 
Offensive line looks strong early 
By BOB MITCHELL American Andy Heck's quick starter. Tim Ryan and Tim Sports Writer tackle spot. Presently, the Grunhard will occupy the leading candidate to fill the big strong and quick guard slots, 
If someone could pry Dick shoes of the 1988 tri-captain is respectively. Vitale off the hardwood and let fifth-year senior Mike Bren­The quality of the first team him commentate (and I use the nan. The 6-5, 260 tackle will be is unquestionable, but what term loosely) on an eleven-man pushed by junior Peter Rausch worries the Irish coaching staff 
game, it would only be a matter and Lindsey Knapp throughout is the lack of depth in the of­of seconds before he would spring practice. fensive line. The first team is elaborate on the giants in the What a difference a year one of the best in collegiate middle. makes? Entering the 1988 football. but without adequate 
"'Oh baby, I wouldn't want to championship season, Holtz & backup they will not be as run into them in a dark alley,'' Co. were frantically searching potent. Vitale would say. "'They are all for bodies to put on the line. "The first team has a better on my Rodney Dangerfield This year, the offensive line is concept, and bringing the team--they get no respect--but the most experienced and per­second unit along will be really 
what I can't understand is they haps stable dimension of the imoportant," explained Holtz. still play knowing they won't 1989 squad. "Finding a backup center has get the rock." "Last year was a totally dif­to be the biggest challenge we 
Although Dick and the rest of ferent situation," said offen­have in the offensive line. At America might not realize the sive line coach Joe Moore. "We this time I would have to say importance of the offensive have some proven athletes. that Winston Sandri is the 
line, Irish head coach Lou Holtz They should be bigger, probable backup for center.'' does, and is impressed with the stronger, and quicker. It is like progress of the men in the night and day compared to last Reinforcing Brown at strong 
middle. spring." tackle is sophomore Justin Hall "We've come along pretty Heading the list of returnees is and junior Joe Allen. Hall is well," said Holtz. "I am center Mike Heldt. The 6-3, 265 recovering from a broken foot. pleased with a lot of things I junior who ran a 4.98 in the 40-Behind Tim Grunhard, Mirko see in the offensive line." yard dash in spring workouts Jurkovic and Gene McGuire The Observer 1 Mike Moran And pleased he should be has had the most playing time should lend quality support at Tim Grunhard is part of a veteran offensive line returning from the 1988 with four returning starters of all the returning players. the quick guard position. Con­penciled in for the start of the At the strong tackle position, verted defensive tackle Tom
championship season. According to offensive line coach Joe Moore, 
1989 season. The only spot up
the difference between this year's line and last year's is like "night and junior Dean Brown will return 
for grabs as for now is All-in his second campaign as see LINE I page 9
day." 







