
VOL. XXII, NO. 113 
THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Associated Press 
VALDEZ, Alaska --The tanker Exxon Valdez was freed Wednesday from the reef that ripped its hull and spilled more than 10 million gallons of crude oil, and Alaska's governor said the Coast Guard would take over the cleanup from Exxon. 
Elsewhere, the captain of the Exxon Valdez surrendered to police and was ordered held on $1 million bond. 
Cleanup crews continued to skim mayonnaise-thick oil from Prince William Sound, but progress was slow and the oil had spread over an area larger than Delaware. The animal death toll rose and sal­mon hatcheries remained en­dangered. 
In Juneau, Alaska Gov. Steve Cowper said he asked the Coast Guard to take over the much­maligned and slowly progress­ing cleanup effort from Exxon, and that the federal agency had agreed. 
Cowper said the Coast Guard should be better able to handle coordination and management of the cleanup than Exxon, which he said was too bureau­cratic. 
"Maybe that's been the prob­lem all along. You need a mil­itary system to get things done," the governor said. 
Valdez capt. surrenders 
Walesa and govt. agree on democratic elections 
Associated Press 
WARSAW, Poland Solidarity leader Lech W alesa sealed a historic deal with the government Wednesday to res­tore the independent trade union after a seven-year ban and give Poland its first dem­ocratic elections since World War II. 
Walesa, representing the op­position, and Gen. Czeszlaw Kiszczak the interior minister representing Poland's commu­nist government, approved the package that emerged from two months of negotiations on political and economic reforms, as the 57 participants in the talks gathered for a final time at the "round table" in the Council of Ministers Palace. 
"There is no freedom without Solidarity," W alesa said at the beginning of a 10-minute ad­dress to the table in which he explained why the opposition 
Cheerleaders named for 1989/90 season 
By MICHELLE DALL Senior Staff Reporter 
Three new members were added to the 1989-90 Notre Dame cheerleading squad after try-outs concluded Wednesday night in the Joyce Athletic and·Convoca­tion Center. 
Six female and five male cheerleaders, as well as one female and one male alter­nate, were selected from the pool of 36 applicants, accor­ding to sophomore Don Gomez, current captain of the men's squad. As captain, Gomez was not required to try out for the new team. 
The 1989-90 cheerleaders include: juniors Brendan Teehan, Nick Farmer, John Ryan, Stephanie Hayashi and Kristin Komyatte; sopc homores Don Gomez, Don Stager, Zac Nagle, Keilleen .· ...· Phelan, Claudia Limardo and Kathleen Kelley; and freshman Jessica Chiappet­ta. 

Sophomores Kevin Suggs and Michelle Paraiso were selected as alternates, and junior Chris Ryan will be the new leprachaun. Ryan was the sole contestant for the mascot position. 
According ·.to Gomez, ··.·· every cheerleader from the 1988-89 season re-applied for a position on the new squad, with the exception of five. seniors who will be graduat­ing this spring. 
The contestants earned 
see CHEER I page 5 ' 

"We appreciate the efforts of Exxon --we think they were done in good faith. But we think there has to be a much more disciplined management struc­ture," Cowper said at a Capitol news conference. 
President Bush earlier had sent a team of high-level offi­cials to Valdez and determined that federal management of the cleanup wasn't necessary. 
Although Cowper said he didn't want to be "extremely critical" of Exxon, a letter sent to the Coast Guard by a state environmental official 'said Ex­xon had been unresponsive. 
"Exxon has failed to provide ... the information necessary to make sound planning recom­mendations regarding the cleanup of oil and the protec­tion of resources," wrote Lynn Kent, chief of the state Oil and Hazardous Substance Spill Response Section. 
Exxon spokesman Henry Beathard· said the company disagreed with charges it wasn't handling the cleanup properly and thought Exxon was the best organization to inanage the effort. 
"We gathered all the re­sources and organized the cleanup. We think the most ef­fective and efficient way to carry out this project is (for Exxon) to continue," Beathard said. 
Fired tanker captain Joseph Hazelwood, 42, surrendered to police on New York's Long Is­land and a judge set his bail at $500,000, up from a prosecu­tor's recommendation of $25,000. He had been sought since Saturday on a fugitive warrant on misdemeanor charges of operating the tanker while drunk. 
"These misdemeanors are of such a magnitude that -has never been equaled, at least in . this country," Judge Kenneth Rohl said as Hazelwood was ar­raigned. "He's got to think about that. We have a man­made destruction that has not been equaled, probably, since Hiroshima." 
Salvage crews pumped com­pressed air into the $125 million ship and floated it off Bligh Reef, 25 miles from the port of Valdez. From there, it began a 30-mile journey under the con­trol of six tugs to a remote cove off Naked Island for temporary repairs, picking its . way through scattered icebergs. 
Exxon Shipping Co. Presi­dent Frank Iarossi said the company has talked with dry docks in South Korea, Japan and Singapore about accepting 
see VALDEZ I page 4 

had approved the agreements. 
He credited authorities with having shown "readiness for a radical change of the system." 
But he said that behind the "nice words" of communist authorities for the past 45 years there was "dishonesty and vio­lence," and Solidarity had aimed for "substantial settle­ments that could be imple­mented right away." 
He declared the opposition had achieved the "necessary minimum" by regaining the le­gal status lost after martial law was imposed in December 1981. negotiated them. 
The government agreed to restore legal status to Solidarity, the farmers' union Rural Solidarity and the Inde­pendent Students Association. All had been banned in the martial-law crackdown. 
In exchange, the Solidarity­led opposition agreed to partie­ipate in June elections to the 460-seat Sejm, or parliament, that guarantee the Communist Party and its allies a 65 percent majority. 
But a new 10-member senate to be created would be the first fully democratically chosen legislative chamber in the East bloc. Anyone who collected 3,000 signatures could get on the ballot and all the seats would be openly contested. 

Solidarity leader Lech Walesa peers out window on a train en route to Warsaw on Wednesday, where 
WORLD BRIEFS 



In the heat of the 
London's subway system was crippled by a strike Wednesday as more than 60 percent of the train drivers shut down service to wide areas of the capital. The Circle, Metropolitan, District, East London and Jubilee lines were closed, and the Piccadilly line, which serves Heathrow Airport, closed after a few hours of service. Normal service was maintained only on the Northern, Victoria and Central lines. Wednesday's action was taken by drivers seeking a pay raise of $108 per week for operating trains without a second crew member, known as a guard, who operates the doors. 
Vietnam will withdraw from Cambodia by Sept. 30, nearly 11 years after an invasion tha.t ended the brutal Khmer Rouge regime and started a civil war. Wednesday's announcement, issued as a joint statement in Phnom Penh, Hanoi and Vientiane, capital of Laos, did not indicate any conditions were attached. It said an international commission including Canada, Poland, Indonesia and India was welcome to supervise the withdrawal, and called for an end to outside military aid. 
The body of Vladimir Lenin is in no immediate danger of rotting away, the Communist Party newspaper reported Wed­nesday. The Soviet founder's body has been lying in state for 65 years. The body lies beneath glass in a special marble-and­granite mausoleum on Red Square. Five days a week, visitors are hustled past the body in a dimly lighted room where no photographs are allowed. There has long been speculation that the technology did not exist when Lenin died in 1924 to preserve him, and that the body is a wax dummy. In the Pravda interview, a laboratory spokesman confirmed that at first, Soviet scientists did not think they could preserve the body of the revered leader. Lenin's wife, Nadezhda Krupskaya, was against having Lenin embalmed, but she was overruled by the Communist Party lead­ership. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 

Mob boss Nicodemo "Little Nicky" Sarcfo and seven associates were convicted Wednesday on first-degree murder charges in the 1985 slaying of another gangster and could face the electric chair. Jurors deliberated about three hours before returning the verdict on all counts in the slaying of Frank "Frankie Flowers" D'Alfonso in July 1985. The jury will begin consideration Thursday on whether the defendants should face death in the electric chair. No other mobster in the nation, or­ganized crime investigators say, has ever been sentenced to death. 
INDIANA BRIEFS 

Lawrence County Prosecutor Charlene Hall will seek the death penalty against a man charged with murder in the stabbing death of his estranged wife. David J. Gardner, 30, is being held without bond in the Lawrence County Jail in the death of Paula 
K. Gardner, 25. Mrs. Gardner's body was found last month buried near railroad tracks behind her parents' Bedford, Ind., home, where she had been living. Mrs. Gardner had filed for divorce last December. The final divorce hearing had been scheduled the day her body was found. According to court documents, aut­horities believe Gardner parked his truck near Mrs. Gardner's parents' home the night of March 1, waited for her to return home and then stabbed her to death. The body was found the next day. 
WEATHER 


April Showers 
Increasing clouds today with highs in the upper 50s. A 60 percent chance of rain tonight with lows in the low 40s. A continued 60 percent chance of rain Friday morning with highs near 50. 
ALMANAC MARKET UPDATE 
On April 6: e In 1896: The first modern Olympic games were formally opened 
in Athens, Greece. e In 1909: American explorer Robert Edwin Peary became the first 
person to lead an expedition to the 
North Pole. e In 1917: Congress approved a declaration of war against Germany. 
e In 1987: The Dow Jones In­dustrial Average closed above 2400 for the first time. 
• Ten years ago: The u.s. announced it was withdrawing economic and military aid to Pakistan because of intelligence reports indicated that Pakistan was secretly building a plant capable of producing enriched uranium for nuclear weapons. 

Currency exchange 

Mark +.0011 to 1.8695 DM I$ 
Yen +0.71 to 131.56¥1$ 

Precious Metals Gold +$2.30 to $388.60 1oz. Silver +1.8¢ to $5.838 I oz. 
Information compiled from Observer wires and Observer staff reports. 

night... 
My dorm room is too hot. 
Unfortunately, the heat can't be attributed to the three gorgeous girls who live there or the fabulous parties held in its confines. 
It's too damned hot because we can't adjust our thermostat. 
In most rooms, temperature can ideally be regulated by turning a knob or adjusting a valve on the radiator. Regulating the heat in my room, however, typically means prying open a window or shedding a sweater. 
Although RAs caution open windows may in­vite prowlers or lonely men, my roommates and I take our chances. After all, it would take Spiderman to scale Farley's walls. 
On the verge of heat stroke and possible dehydration, we've filed countless complaints about the. soaring temps. Sometimes our re­quests are actually heeded, and the tempera­ture dips below the hundred degree mark for a few days. Eventually, however, the mercury gradually climbs back into the nineties, and we're soon left basking in our tropical hotbox. 
There's no problem in the early autumn or late spring, because the heat's shut off. In December, however, when most South Bend students are bundled up in wool blankets and flannel pajamas, my roommates and I are sporting tank tops and sucking ice cubes. In fact, it's so hot, we have all three of our fans running simultaneously, resulting in tornado winds in the epicenter of the room. 
Nighttime is particularly wretched. I sleep on the bottom bunk with a window above my head. Directly behind me, beneath the window, is a three foot radiator. 
From October to April, the radiator emits heat--whether we like it or not. Maybe--un­beknowst to any of us--there's actually a way to turn down the thermostat, but we've never quite mastered the technique. This lack of me­chanical expertise results in many a hot, sleep­less night, and led us to dub the heater the "towering inferno." 
By early morning, cool breezes finally drift through the window, but, alas, they provide no relief. Since the heater is strategically located between the bed and the window, every 
OF INTEREST 
The SU 8 Panel Discussion featuring the Chicago Tribune film critic Gene Siskel has been cancelled due to a death in Mr. Siskel's family. Ticket refunds for tonight's presenta­tion will be given today and tomorrow at the information desk in LaFortune. 
Mr. Robert Marquis, former VP at Kidder & Peabody, ND '66, will give a presentation tonight at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune, about his current work in his new public relations firm and about his dealings in the financial word during the stock crash of October '87. A reception will follow in the Foster Room in LaFortune. 
A Night of Spirituals is presented by the Office of Campus Ministry and the Department of Music tonight at 8 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. The Notre Dame Chorale, Glee Club, Folk Choir, and the Voices of Faith Gospel Choir will be featured. 
Christmas in April volunteers should report to the Alumni-Senior Club headquarters no later than 7:30a.m. this Saturday, April 8. It is im­portant that you be on time for the 7:45 a.m. departure and that you bring your assignment letter. 

'From October to April, the radiator emits heat--whether we like it or not.' 
Michelle Dall News Editor 
semblance of a cool breeze is effectively cooked before it reaches me. Even an Arctic wind would thaw in our room. 
The radiator not only converts our dorm room into a sweltering sweatbox, but also constantly emits strange gurgling and hissing sounds like a geyser readly to spew scalding steam. 
Fearing an actual explosion from "Old Faith­
ful," I've decided to sleep with my head facing 
away from the window and my feet by the 
radiator. This way, I'm able to catch an oc­
casional breeze on my baked brow if someone 
opens the door quickly, and once in a while I 
can feel a draft accross my face from a hole in 
the floor somewhere nearby. (I have forced 
myself not to consider the ramifications of that 
last fact.) 
When I finally do fall asleep, I have dreams 
of "Body Heat," "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof" and 
"Out of Africa," so I guess there are some cul­
tural advantages to living in a steam bath. 
Don't let anyone tell you the upper Midwest 
is frigid in winter. It's a well-disguised fact, 
but the Torrid Zone is actually located on the 
third floor of Farley Hall in northern Indiana. 
In fact, my roommates and I are probably the 
only college students in America who dream of 
heading north for Spring Break and fleeing to 
Iceland in April. 
Michelle DaU is a sophomore majoring in gov­ernment and American Studies. She currently serves as news editor on The Observer. The views expressed in this column reflect only those of the author and are not necessarily the opinions of either The Observer or the Univer­sity. 
Summer Service Project Workshop this Saturday from 10 a.m. to noon at the Center for SoCial Concerns. All students participating in the Summer Service Projects are required to attend. 
Observer Questionnaires should be filled out and turned in as soon as possible if you have not already done so. Thank you to everyone who has turned in the questionnaires. 
HPC applications for Secretary and Off-Campus commission for the upcoming year will be available Thursday and Friday. They can be picked up at the Student Government Secretary's desk, second floor, LaFortune. Call Kerstin at 283-4220 or LaLa at 283-1242 for more information. 
Anyone with friends in the Jerusalem Program this semester should contact Lisa Mackett at 283-4945 about a very special care package. A meeting will be held in Knott Hall Saturday night at 8 p.m. 
Friday Forum at the CSC features Patrick Gaffney on "Communalism, Minorities and Na­tion States in the Middle East," at 12: 15 p.m. in the esc. .... 
Wednesday's Staff 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except . dunng exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur­chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Design Editor...............•..••...•. Karen Newlove Typesetters .............. Bernard Brenninkmeyer 
.................................... Gilbert Gomez News Editors ............................. Kelley Tuthill ............................................. Florentine Hoelker Copy Editor ............................ Janice O'Leary Sports Copy Editor ................. Marty Strasen VIewpoint Layout .........••....... Karen Newlove Typist .........................................•.•. Will Zamer .................................................... Diana Bradley NO Day Editor............... Margaret McCloskey SMC Day Editor.................. Rozel Gatmaitan 
-------------~---~-------­

Thursday, April 6, 1989 The Observer page 3 
U.S. asks Soviets to end Nicaraguan aid 
Associated Press those words credence. 
''Today, we call upon the 
Soviets to cut off their half­

WASHINGTON --The White billion-dollar annual military House on Wednesday accused aid to Nicaragua. The Soviets Soviet President Mikhail S. continue to pour arms into Gorbachev of failing to put ac­Nicaragua, a country whose tions behind his rhetorical sup­army is already larger than port for peace in Central those of all their neighbors America and called on the combined." Soviets to end military aid to A day earlier, Fitzwater had Nicaragua. said that Soviet spokesman 
Gennady Gerasimov's state­

In a strong criticism that ments against the export of reflected clear disappointment revolution appeared to be a with Gorbachev's much­positive sign. Wednesday, awaited speech Tuesday in however, Fitzwater said that Havana, White House Press while "we can hold out a little Secretary Marlin Fitzwater optimism on the basis of the said continued Soviet activity words," the Bush administra­in Central America will affect tion still looks for actions to U.S.-Soviet relations. back them up. 
He declined, however to U.S. officials had said that 
specify how the administration Gorbachev's visit this week to 
might express its displeasure. the Soviet ally would be a good 
Fitzwater noted that Gorbac­time for him to show signs of 
hev had denounced the export his ''new thinking'' by moving 
of revolution, but added: to withdraw military support 
"While his words about not from the leftist Nicaraguan 
exporting revolution are wel­government, or to use his influ­
comed, they are not matched ence to push Nicaragua into 
by deeds which would give democratic reforms. 
20 die, 68 wounded in bombing in Lebanon 
Associated Press civilians, since the confronta­
tion began March 8 between 

BEIRUT, Lebanon --Shells Gen. Michel Aoun's Christian 
blasted street markets and a army units and an alliance of 
hospital Wednesday, killing at Druse militiamen and Syrian
least 20 people in another of the troops.
fierce Christian-Moslem ar­tillery duels that have kept It is the worst round of fight­
residents in bomb shelters for ing since 1985 in Lebanon's 14­
a month. year-old civil war. 
Police gave the death toll and 
said 68 people were wounded A police spokesman said on the fifth day the divided most of the casualties Wednes­city's Moslem and Christian day were in Moslem Westresidential areas have been Beirut, where shells fired bybombarded without letup. 
Aoun's gunners hit three 
vegetable markets and the 

At least 175 people have been Barbir hospital, one of the Mos-
reported killed and 574 lem sector's four major medi­
wounded, nearly all of them cal centers. 

~ 
j 
I I 
1 
l 
Soviet President Gorbachev and Cuban President the conclusion of their summit talks in Havana on Castro sign a treaty of friendship and cooperation at Tuesday. 
. 

.. 
•
Housing prices on the rise 
Young couples put off purchasing first house 
Associated Press mortgages on the homes they widows continue to maintain 
want. their homes at the same time 

WASHINGTON --Rising In 1975 three-fourths of increasing numbers of young prices are forcing young married couples aged 25 to 35 people are postponing mar­couples to delay one part of the qualified for an 80 percent riage. American dream --owning mortgage, a figure that fell to The Census Bureau report their own home--even as the less than half by 1985, the study was released just a day after number of available houses is found. the Federal Home Loan Bank growing more than twice as Over the same period, the na-Board reported that conven­fast as the population, the tion's housing stock grew by 26 tional mortgage interest rates Census Bureau said Wednes-percent, while the U.S. popula-rose in March to their highest day. tion rose by just 11 percent, the level since just before the 1987 
Over the decade that began Census Bureau reported in its stock market crash. in 1975, median prices for a new analysis, "Housing in The board said the national first home rose 125 percent, America, 1985-86." . average for conventional, from $27,100 to $61,000 in 1985, Helping absorb the growing single-family loa!IS jumped to while the average income of number of available homes are 11.36 percent in early March, married couples renting their the trend toward second-home up from 11.11 percent in early home, and aged 25 to 29, rose ownership and a shrinkage in February. only 80 percent, from $12,300 to average household size, from While renters are facing $22,200, the bureau reported. 2.94 in 1975 to 2.69 a decade steeper obstacles to owning 
The result, Census housing later. their first home, the report said analyst F. John Devaney said, Divorce and separation, up that people who already own a is that couples who used to sharply in recent years, have house are more able to buy a move from renting to owning turned one household into two, second home. in their 20s are now largely Devaney observed. "One in 10 The bureau reported that delaying the transition into homeowner units is a woman "vacant" housing rose from 2.5 their 30s or later because they living alone," he said. million units in 1940 to 11.5 mil­can no longer qualify for In addition, many elderly lion in 1985 --meaning the
;-=-:.:.::.:.::=:____:::.:.::.:.::..::.:..-=-:.::._:...:._..:.::.::.::.::_:______:_::.:________---, ;::;;....;;.;.;;_~~.;;_.....;:.;,;,;,;.;.;.;..;;.._...,.______.....;__...;...__..., United States has more unused CLUBS & ORGANIZATiONS housing than the entire housing 

stock of Canada.

All clubs & organizations must now re-register 
But that category includes

for the 1989-90 academic year. Applications 
some 5.4 million homes that are 
seasonal or recreational

are now available .in the Student Activities Office, 
residences, the report said. 

3rd Floor LaFortune. Applications include: 
1) Registration Form


SHENANIGANS 

2) Funding Request Notre Dame's Singing and Dancing Ensemble 
3} Office Space Request 

"liF£8 ABEACH...

4) Football Concession Stand Request Hollywood Glamour era 
presents the sounds of the 
Applications deadline is APRIL 19. 
The Annenberg Auditorium The Snite Museum of Art 
llntlllht•J/JxJt/lln/1'1"!.11/rllnnlltTim'llfll}mllllf}t 
umw fl'flJW•!J luuul:n'fl..~ lumwu,.,..._ If''"'crwt ~J,all'
University of Notre Dame 
ELIZABETH C. HOWL 
'it•mr•tmwltllwlp 1f011tnu;tllnl••rL'tlumu'rl

{'"\ JORDAN 
New & Used Cars & Trucks Apri16, 1989,7:00-7:30 pm 
~·

coO.V 
FORD 
Ext. 667 

\ ~\' IoYOlA 
Sopranos Basses Gretchen Gordon Kevin Bish 
SUMMER CAMP

.....£-?-cu?-'{ .::Lr:
staging director sound and light manager 
POSITIONS 

Kathy Habiger Joe Clair 
Counselors: 21 f, coed,

\~\ :\t:. d~: ...~... (
Laura Harter Thomas Dat.Jgherty 
sleepaway camp, Mass.

f\.f't\)~ ~09 E Jenerson Boulevard Phone (219) 259-1981 ~1 t"\v PO Bo> 370 Elkhart Area Call (219) 674·9926 
Anne-Marie Laboe Dan Gore 
Berkshires. WSI, arts &
general manager 

Q ~~ IM•shawaka. IN 46~5 lnd.ana Toll Free (800) 451-65:;6
Altos RobbMicek 
crafts, tennis, all land and

Julie Bruce 
financial managerassistant manager 

water sports, drama,



rr~oG.~~
EnsembleGigi Junkins 

gymnastics, piano/play for
Brad Luetkenhaus Jackie Laboe 

bass 
shows, judo, dance,

Anne Soisson Kellie Porter 
photography, computers,





$400 REBATE*
Tenors piano I keyboards 
nature, wilderness, model

Tim Beerman Greg Scheckler assistant manager drums 
rocketry, guitar, yearbook,
Largest Ford Inventory

Tony Bosco Walter Tambor 
woodworking, RN, typist,
musical director 

James Brandt 
#1 Selling Ford Dealer in Country 
piano Ikeyboards 
Write: Camp Emerson,

John Stavrakos 
For further information, call Elizabeth 
5 Brassie Rd,
7:30-9:00 pm. movie "After the Thin Man" 
Eastchester, NY 10707

* This is in addition to any present program 
or call914/779-9406 
---~ 

Baker meets with Israel's Shamir 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON --Secretary of State James A. Baker III said Thursday he was encouraged by suggestions by Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir for settling the Arab­Israeli dispute. 
Baker commented after a two-hour meeting with Shamir that the secretary called "very productive, useful and very friendly." 
For his part, Shamir said he had offered "some ways to solve" problems in the Mideast and remarked: 
"I feel we have started a very serious discussion. Our con­
versation was very friendly."
1ne uoserver 1 Catherine McMenamin

"Wow a recejpt!" 
Details were not disclosed.

' . . . the bookstore.
Peter Hickey joins the crowd of semors recetvtng 
Shamir said last week he
their receipts for graduation caps and gowns in 
would propose elections among the 1.7 million Palestinian Arabs who live under Israeli control on the West Bank and

Long sworn into U.S. Congress 
Associated Press Congress took the oath of of­
fice, which was administered 
by House Speaker Jim Wright, 
WASHINGTON --Jill Long, at midafternoon and was who scored a Democratic vic-quickly surrounded by col­tory in Dan Quayle's old con-leagues, shaking hands and gressional district last month, clapping her on the back. was sworn into office in the Long, 36, from Larwill in House of Representives on Whitley County, won a special Wednesday, drawing applause election in Indiana's 4th con-and a standing ovation from gressional district after Rep. both Republicans and Dan Coats, a Republican, was Democrats. appointed to fill out the Senate 
Long pledged to put aside any term of Vice President Quayle. partisan differences in her new In a March 28 special election duties. Long defeated Republican Dan 
"I want my colleagues here Heath, winning 65,160 votes, or to know how committed I am 51 percent, to 63,388, or 49 per-to extending my hand not just cent, for Heath. In doing so she to Democrats but also to won back for Democrats a seat Republicans, because by the GOP had controlled since working together we can solve Quayle's first run for office in those challenges of the next 1976. century," Long said. Her victory also enhanced in Gaza, with the aim of picking leaders to negotiate with Israel diana's congressional delega­over the Palestinians' future.
tion to 7-3. 
Shamir said after the session The House granted Long con-with Baker that he wouldsent to be seated before her cer­pursue bringing peace to thetificate of election was com­Mideast with President Bushpleted. Under Indiana law 10 on Thursday at the Whitedays must pass before such a House. · certificate is issued, and tradi­Israel has controlled thetion calls for a member-elect West Bank and Gaza since itsto present his or certificate to lightning victory over Egypt,the House before receiving the Jordan and Syria in the 1967 Six­oath of office. 
Day War. On Monday, BushHowever, Indiana Secretary called on Israel to end what heof State Joseph H. Hogsett sent said was its "occupation" asWright a letter confirming part of an overall settlementLong's election and stating that with the Arabs. 
no recount of ballots had been Since December 1987, when 

the Palestinians launched a 
concerted campaign to chal­
lenge Israel, the territories 
have been shrouded by vio­
lence in which 419 Palestinians 
and 18 Israelis have died. 

Shamir has ruled out 
negotiating with the Palestine 
Liberation Organization, which 
he holds responsible for that 
violence and for an unceasing 
campaign of terrorism against 
Israel. 

He told a conference of 
Jewish-American organization 
leaders that sitting with the 
PLO would "bring disaster." 
Instead, he has sought to revive the 1978 Camp David agreements' promise of a transitional period of autonomy for the Palestinians and then negotiations for an overall settlement. 
"The prime minister has made some suggestions," Baker said. "We are going to continue our discussion with the objective of moving the peace process forward, if it's possible to do so. They were very encouraging. Hopefully they will form the basis under which we can move the peace process forward." 
Shamir follows Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak to Washington, who said toward the end of his visit Tuesday that he saw no way to stop the vio­lence in the territories. 
"If anybody could stop it, we would be very pleased," Mubarak said, asking, "But how?" 

....;T;.;h~e;;....:,;n;;e.:.;w.;;;e;;st;;_.;,;m~e;;,:m;;;;;.be;,;r;,_.;;;o;.f.....;t;,;h~e..-D..;;e;,;m;,;,;o;.;c-.r,;;;,at;;;;i.;.c_e.;.d;;:g;:,;e;....;;i-.n..,;,;;In.,-_ Jan. 3 to move to the Senate. 
requested. 
Long's swearing in brought Indiana's congressional delegation back to full strength. The seat had been 

is currently accepting applications for the 
empty since Coats resigned 
following paid positions: 


vaI d ez 
continued from page 1 
the vessel after the temporary repairs are made. 
First choice is a Portland, Ore., dry dock, Iarossi said, but Oregon officials have raised concerns about accepting the ship. Iarossi said the ship won't trail any pollution while it is towed. 
Oil has floated over 2,600 square miles, soiled 800 miles of beach and killed thousands of animals, including. at least 30 sea otters, officials said. 
"Dozens of otters are dying before rescuers can get to them," said fish and game spokesman Jon Lyman. 
Favorable weather, tional coastline outside Prince 
Design Assistant
William Sound. Flow through the Alaskan pipeline returned to its normal 


Accent Designer 
daily flow of 2.1 million barrels · Wednesday, the Alyeska 
Pipeline Service Co. said. Oil 
flow from the North Slope had 
For further information, contact Alison 
been cut by 60 percent because 
Cocks at 239-5303 or 283-4042
the spill restricted tanker traf­

however, has kept it offshore£~iic~in~V~a:ld~e=z~h~a~rb:o:r~,:b:ut~t:r~a:ff:ic~~;;;;:::::::::::::::::~;:======~
from a national park and addi-~as increased. 
b~~cla,,~·nlcA1a~·y··C!.~o([L!JL~~ 
2'J£pattmwt of Communication and Cffuah£ 
<=f?Lpnlotyi!Pu{otmanu ~nc.: <11'ot~hop p•wnt. 



Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series 
Wall Street Public Relations During Global Financial Crisis 
One PR man's experiences with the !!:~:c!9r Trading Schedule end the Stock Market Crash of '87 

presented by Mr. Robert Marquis, Notre Dame '66 Director, Princeton Public Relations Group 
THURSDAY APRIL 6, 1989 
7:00 PM LAFORTUNE UTILE THEATRE Reception to follow 
Sponsored by Student Alumni Relations Group and ND Alumni Association 


Judges for the event included Associated Press Lorenzo was again changing negotiations and sticking points on the basis of their per­current cheerleading coach the terms of the agreement. points. It's not done." formance in several areas, in­Maria Majerek; former Notre NEW YORK --For the second "Both sides thought they had The deal had appeared to be cluding gymnastic routines, Dame football player Jim Hum­time in a week, former baseball a deal but there were some completed Wednesday after­stunts, cheers, personality, bert; Phyllis Stone and Lisa commissioner Peter V. Ueber­sticking points that kept noon, when a New York public dance, appearance and spirit. LaHame, two former Notre roth thought he had a deal to negotiations continuing instead relations firm that works with A total of 285 points was possi­Dame cheerleaders; Melanie purchase Eastern Airlines only of concluding," the source said. Lorenzo was told to rent a hotel ble for men and 335 for women. Johnson, a gymnasitcs instruc­to see the agreement with · Ueberroth, who returned to room for a 7 p.m. news confer­
Try-outs were held both tor from "Gymnasitics Mic­Texas Air Corp. Chairman New York late Tuesday night ence to announce it. At 6: 35 Tuesday and Wednesday hiana"; " and National Cheer­Frank Lorenzo fall through at from his California home, p.m., the public relations firm nights. While both men and wo­leading Association instructor the last minute. began negotiations with was told there would be no an­men participated in both Tom Dickerson. A source familiar with the Lorenzo at 7:30a.m. EST Wed­nouncement. 
,
rounds of competition, only negotiations said the two sides nesday and continued them un­female hopefuls were cut after Sophomore Claadia Limardo reached an accord Tuesday til around 8 p.m. The source Separately, the U.S. bank­1
,
the first night, according to commented, "There was really night and were set to make the told The Associated Press that ruptcy court appointed Wash­
1
Gomez. Gomez said 10 women a lot of competition. I guess announcement Wednesday. negotiations would resume ington attorney David Shapiro were eliminated in the first cut. what it really came down to The source said the deal began Thursday morning. as examiner in the Eastern 1 The remaining female contes­was not cracking under pres­to unravel on Wednesday mor­"They don't have a deal," the bankruptcy reorganization 
~ 
tants and all the male prospec-sure." ning, as Ueberroth believed source said. "There's still case. 

~ 
, ~ 
, 
1 I 
,1 



Students, 
1 
I 


The Student Union Board regrets to inform you that I 
I 


Gene Siskel's father has recently passed away. Due 1 to this unfortunate circumstance, Thursday night's I 
1 
1
lecture, to be given by Gene Siskel, has been I 
postponed indefinitely. We will make every effort to 1I j 

re-schedule this lecture. In the meantime, tickets canl , 1be refunded on Thursday and Friday at the Iinformation desk of La _Fortune. Thank you. 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I I I 
I I 
I I 
I I 
I I 
I I 
I 
Thursday, April 6, 1989 



500 greet Bowen upon return home 
Associated Press Bowen said he had no inten­
tion of running for office or ac­

SOUTH BEND --After years cepting a full-time appoint­of public service as a state ment. The popular former legislator, Indiana's governor governor, a physician who now and the Reagan Administra­lives on a five-acre farm at tion's top medical adviser, Otis Bremen, said he would return 
R. Bowen is happy to be back to his hobbies of fishing, on his Marshall County farm. reading and gardening. 
"Frankly, we've been in so South Bend Mayor Joseph E. many hot seats that it's great Kernan presented Bowen with not to be on a schedule, not to a key to the city and Steven have to report to anyone and Cramer of Bethel College gave not to have to set any alarm," him a gold key to the Otis and Bowen said Tuesday night at Elizabeth Bowen Library. The Notre Dame's Joyce Athletic library --named for Bowen and and Convocation Center. his late first wife--houses 
Bowen's papers and 

Nearly 500 people welcomed memorabilia. Bowen and his wife, Rose, back Bowen, 71, was speaker of the to Indiana after his three years Indiana House of Representa­
as President Reagan's secre­tives from 1967 to 1972, when tary of health and human ser­he was elected to the first of his two terms as governor.
vices. 
~ 
tives were then interviewed by six judges before proceeding to

Cheer 
the second round. 

continued from page 1 

The Observer page 5 

AP Photo

Held at knifepoint 
Armed with knives, prisoners hold two teen-aged their demands after escaping Sunday from the women hostages as they await the granting of Davao Penal Colony in the Philippines. 
.. 



The four states, including one central state, will be chosen by Feb. 18, 1990. 
"Young people should be 
~~r
PRIME RIB .\, .
taught that drug abuse has serious consequences, qot only 


SEAFOOD ~IC ·,
for them but also for those around them," Coats ·said. 
H~~ 
"That is why I am asking that Featuring Friday you make every effort to add night seafood buffetIndiana to the list of those states which are being consid­

and Sunday brunch ered." 
219-259-9925 

Interested in starting an on-campus geographic club? 
GEOGRAPHIC CLUB INFORMATION NIGHT 
sponsored by SARG and the NO Alumni Association 
TONIGHT IN LAFORTUNE --SORIN ROOM 6:30PM 
Current Geographic Clubs: 
Boston San Diego New York Detroit Buffalo San Francisco Rochester Long Island Cincinnati St. Louis South Carolina Minnesota 
Connecticut Washington D.C. Southern California New Jersey DallastFt. Worth Wisconsin page 6 


Bush proposes $441 million for education 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON --President Bush, who campaigned on a promise to be "the education president," on Wednesday sent Congress a $441 million educa­tion package designed to reward and promote school im­provements. 
"We're going to take action --action to make excellence in education not just a rallying cry, but a classroom reality," Bush said at a Rose Garden ceremony outside the White House. 
His "Excellence in Educa­tion Act," based in part on campaign pledges, would reward outstanding schools, teachers and science scholars, encourage districts to create magnet schools with special curriculums, push states to develop new ways to certify teachers, help drug-ridden ur­ban schools and bolster the en­dowments of historically black colleges. 
"These education initiatives don't constitute a cure-all, a quick fix," Bush said. He added 

Bayh considers drug testing for new drivers 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS --Gov. Evan Bayh may look into a federal pilot program to randomly test first-time drivers license appli­cants for drug use, a spokes­man says. 
"It sounds like something we would want to look at seriously, but we'd like to see the proposal first," said deputy press secre­tary Phil Schermerhorn. 
Sen. Dan Coats, R-Ind., urged Bayh in a letter Tuesday to apply for the program, ap­proved by the Anti-Drug Abuse Act authorized by Congress last year. It calls for the federal government to fund four model drug testing programs in dif­ferent states. 
"Drug abuse continues to be a major problem for our country and our state," the freshman senator said in the letter. "Approximately 10 per­cent of our population --23 
later that "I don't have to tell 
you about the current federal 
budget situation. Money is tight 
and we wish that more funds 
were available to spend on all 
levels of education." 
Administration officials said 
Wednesday that the money 
they are seeking for the initia­
tives would be in addition to the 
$21.9 billion in spending author­
ity already proposed for the 
Education Department. 
But Education Secretary Lauro Cavazos said at a brief­ing that funds for the initiatives "do not come from other pro­grams in the Department of Education." He said, "I don't know where the money will come from but that's another issue. These are new dollars." Some educators and politicians expressed concern that even at $22.3 billion for fis­. cal 1990, the departmental in­
crease from 1989 will not match 
inflation and districts will have 
to cut back on basic programs 
for students who are disadvan­
taged, handicapped, or limited 
in their English proficiency. 
million Americans--use illegal drugs on a regular basis. Even more shocking, however, are the statistics regarding the use of ill~gal drugs among our youth." 
Under the pilot program, states must deny driving privileges to those first-time applicants who test positive for drug use. Driving privileges could be reinstituted following three months if testing is re­quired on a regular basis for nine months 
The Observer 
Thursday, April 6, 1989 
Trooping Along 
A Namibian woman and her child pass by a convoy of South African-backed Namibian troops on Tues­day. A South African official said the fledgeling 
SECURITY BEAT 
THURS.,MARCH 30 
10:30 a.m. A Notre Dame employee reported vandalism done to a Coke vending machine on the 3rd floor of Dillon Hall sometime during Easter break. Damage estimates are unknown. 
TUES., APRIL 2 
3:30p.m. A visitor to Notre Dame reported that an unknown vehicle damaged the driver's door to her vehicle while parked in Red Field lot sometime between 1 :00 and 3:30 pm. Damage estimates are un­known. 


~------J~()~i~.,--------~ !·············~~~f'ilti<=)f'i············ 
FRESHMEN &
The Observer SOPHOMORES 
DEPARTMENT Thursday 4/6 
5-6 Psychology 7-8 Government 
7-8 Art, Art History & 200 Riley Design 
• 
~ 
graduate




student






i}.Jj/ 
•

, ... 

un1on 
Committee Chairpersons 1989-90 
The Graduate Student Union is interested in dynamic graduate students to chair various GSU Standing Committees for the 1989-90 academic year. Positions available are: 
PARLIAMENTARIAN, ORIENTATION COMMITTEE, LIBRARY COMMITTEE, TRAVEL GRANT COMMITTEE, INTERNATIONAL GRADUATE STUDENT 
COMMITTEE, . WOMEN'S RESOURCES COMMITTEE, INTELLECTUAL LIFE COMMITTEE, q.nd 
MINORITY ISSUES COMMITTEE. Applications and job descriptions are available from the GSU office, Room 307, LaFortune Student Center. DEADLINE is APRIL 14th, 1989. 
WED., APRIL 3 

2:20 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resi­dent reported that an unknown vehicle caused damage to the rear fender of his vehicle while parked in the D 1 lot sometime between 3/30 and 4/1. 
THURS., APRIL 4 

2:00 p.m. A Knott Hall resident re­ported that her books were stolen from an unattended study carrel on the second floor of Hesburgh li­brary sometime between 11:45 and 
4:20 p.m. on 4/3. Total losses esti­mated at $155 
10:40 p.m. A resident of St. Ed­ward's hall reported the theft of his walkman and jacket from outside the doors of Stepan Center some­time around 9:30 p.m. Total losses estimated at $150. 
AP Photo independence process in Namibia is in danger of collapsing because of fighting between security forces and black nationalist guerrillas. 
PRE~ENTATIONS
~ ~ 
119 Haggar 104 O'Shaughnessy 
RIME OF THE WEEK 
The Crime of the Week is vandal­ism to vending machines on Dillon Hall's third floor. During Easter break (3/24 to 3/27) un­known persons tried to take mon11y from the dollar bill changer in the Coke and Pepsi machines, causing several hundred dollars in damages. Between 3/30 and 3/31, a suspect turned the Coke machine on its side, causing minimal damage. Several attempts to steal money from the same machines were made last semester, causing extensive damage. Crime Stoppers wants to know who is responsible for this vandalism and will pay a 
reward for information. Call Crime Stoppers at 288-STOP.. 

.-----------------­




Viewpoint
Thursday, April 6, 1989 _e_age 7 
_rry..e-Obse..---~~r----·­
--=-.l-=1-1 -A.-=Y~'­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris DonnellyManaging Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor .... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor ................. Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ....... Shannon Roach Sports Editor ...................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks Accent Editor .......................... John Blasi Systems Manager ............. Mark Derwent Photo Editor ............................ Eric Bailey OTS Director................... Angela Bellanca Controller ............................ Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the Independent newspaper pubhsned by the students of the Uni­versltyof Notre Damedu Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pohc1es of the adm1mstrat1on of e1ther Institution. The news is reported as accurately and ObjeCtively as poss1ble. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the follow1ng: Ed1tor-1n·Ch1ef. Manag1ng Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Ed1tor. Sports Ed1tor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of the1r authors. Column space is available to all members of the community anci the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 

Library must meet student needs 
The Association of Research Libraries' ranking of the Notre Dame library as 74th is a misleading, yet revealing number. Unfortunately, the study does not measure the primary objective of a university li­brary: how well the library meets the needs of stu­dents and faculty. 
The University has tried to focus on attracting top­notch faculty and raising faculty salaries for the past ten years. Yet, the most sought after professors are less likely to come to Notre Dame without the research facilities an exceptional library provides. 
An excellent library should be a University priority. 
Specifically, there are two areas in which the library could improve to better meet the needs of students: the increase in the number and availibility of qualified staff and the extension of library hours. 
One revealing aspect of the ARL study was that only 14 schools had fewer staff members than Notre Dame. This situation must be remedied. In order to best meet the needs of the faculty and students, the library must increase the number of staff. With the increase in the number of qualified staff, we hope will come the extension of the Micro Text and Audio-Reserve readings department hours. 
A problem not revealed by the rankings is the lim­ited time Notre Dame's library is open for student and faculty use. Most university libraries, for instance the University of Pennsylvania's and Harvard Uni­versity's, are open 24 hours. However, extending the hours from approximately 16 to 24 does not seem practical at this time. 
We recommend an extension of library hours for 
two hours on Sundays through Thursdays. Few stu­
dents use the library during the morning hours be­
cause of class schedules, and the extension of library 
hours would give students a quiet place for late study. 
The increase in qualified staff and extension of li­
brary hours are two problems that would help our 
library better meet student needs. 
DOONESBURY 
[J(}ffftiJO~­
{zy ABOUT 17; JOAN/e. 
tVe!<YONf3'5 A ume.5HOOJ<. UP IA/H!JN THC.'t rtRST5aMe. 
THANI<SFOR aJMING. 




Israel: Land of chaos and corruption 
BY MICHAEL CARRIGAN 
-

The small humble square is an unlikely spot for a holy site. A church tower rises towards the sky, stretching away from the darkened stones. The foundations of the ancient churches impress visitors with both their history, and the im­portance of the site on which they rest. The square is peace­fully alive with shops and ven­dors. Discarded cans and wrappers are a reminder of the modern age in this seemingly timeless spot. 
Like a small hint of rain, a gentle mist gildes into the square. Soon its smell divulges the true identity of the cloud. It is not a gentle fog of rain, but the violent, burning am­monia smell of tear gas. A bit­ter conflict spills into the square as the peace is shat­tered by shouts and gunshots. Pilgrims and shopkeepers scurry inside as their places are taken by masked protesters and armed soldiers. 
The place is the Israeli occu­pied west bank, and is also known as the manger square in Bethlehem, the birthplace of Christ. This spot, one of the world's holiest for Christians, 
LETTERS 
Sports legendleaves NO 
Dear Editor: 
As the 1988-89 athletic year at Notre Dame comes to a close, I would like to recognize a certain Irish sports legend for 
long,  devoted  service  to  the  
University.  
Earlier in  the year  Roger  

V aldiserri relinquished his title of Sports Information Director in the athletic department after serving for over 20 years in that capacity. In his long and dis­tinguished career, Roger be­came the standard by which all other SIDs are judged. He was regarded as the "best in the business" and did his job with unprecedented profes­sionalism and integrity. He was the perfect publicity chief for Notre Dame. A graduate of the University, he typified everything Notre Dame stood for--a deep belief in academic credibility within the athletic department, an unmatched drive for success on the field and a manner of style and class unseen anywhere in athletic communications. 
Over the years Roger helped countless young professionals is not a place of peace but one of constant and often deadly violence. The irony of manger square is not an exception in 
the holy land, but the rule. • 
When the state of Israel was founded over 40 years ago, it was to be the antithesis of the Jews' most awful enemy: Hit­ler's Germany. It was to be an example of democracy, equality, freedom or religion and justice for all the world to turn. From the ashes of World War II, the Israeli people bravely challenged themselves to establish a better country in the land of their patriarchs. 
Ironically, this ideal is no more reality today than it was in 1948. Today, the Israeli gov­ernment uses many of the same methods to control the Pales­tinians that were used in Jewish persecutions for centuries. Regularly homes are sealed or destroy~d and schools are closed. Arab leaders are har­rassed or imprisoned. Special licence plates, and personal identity cards single out Pales­tinians for detention and searches. The high ideals of the early zionists have been yet an­other casualty of Israeli occu­pation and war with the Arabs. 
Still another irony is far more 
get started in the business. I was one of those. I served un­der Roger as an Assistant Sports Information Director for four years (1982-86) and it was the most enjoyable time of my career. 
I'm just one .of many who have been touched profes­sionally and personally by Roger. Thanks for everything, Roger. The University owes you a great deal of appreciation for such dedicated, loyal and devoted service. 
Eddie White 
Indianapolis 
March 24, 1989 

NO foreigner wants change 
Dear Editor: 
I have just arrived at Notre Dame from China. I am con­cerned about getting the chance to practice my English often. 
While I was in China, I knew someone who had graduated from Manchester University and lived in England for five years. But I was surprised that his English was quite poor. Why? I wondered about it. After I arrived at Notre Dame, simple. Jews, Christians, and Moslems have fought, lived, and died for this land since the birth of their faiths. In the name of Yahweh, Christ, and Allah, each teligion has made special claim to Israel, and preached of it's importance. What is unbelievable is they fight for the land with one hand, and destroy it with another. Is­rael is a land covered with trash and litter, even in its most holy places. The roads linking the towns are lined with rusting cars and rotting litter. For all their speeches and weapons, all those who claim this land cannot even keep it clean. 
Perhaps it is because this is God's land that Israel is so complex and paradoxical. But hopefully one day the holy places in this land will no longer be surrounded by armed guards and litter, but peace and mutual respect. This should be a goal for all the world, not only because it will save lives, but because God would want it so, whether he or she is Yahweh, Christ, or Allah. 
Michael Carrigan is a junior government and Hesburgh Program major in Notre Dame's Jerusalem Program. 
I saw that many foreign stu­dents live with students from the same country. I was further surprised to find that all of the students are from the same country in a big graduate stu­dent office. So, I guess that many foreign students only have the chance to practice their English in English class. I have found out why some­body's English was very poor even after he lived in an English-speaking country. 
In China, the school usually appoints a Chinese student to room with a foreign student, so the foreign student can benefit from this. I wonder why the Notre Dame administration cannot do the same as the Chinese college administra­tions. Let us merge. 
Fu-Quan Wang Off-Campus March 31, 1989 
Have something to say? The Viewpoint page depends on commentaries from its readers. Write down your thoughts and send them to Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
Dame, Indiana 46556. 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
lJR. Kte/N'S 8eEN CA!<ING FOR AIOS A P&RFeCT rvc. PATI!iNfS FOR. R£a)RJ)~ L05T 
seveN YeARS. 50 I TH&M 
'Blessed are the young, for 
FAR H8'f3 GOT AU. A Pf3RF!f0T 
they shall inherit the 
!<ECOIW.' ...........__ \ 
national debt. ' 
Herbert Hoover 






Accent
page 8 Thursday, April 6, 1989 
'The Bonfire of the Vanities' 
"A modern day Sod om" 

MISSY IRVING accent writer 
S 
herman McCoy fancies 
himself a Master of the 
Universe. McCoy, the 
protagonist in Tom Wolfe's 
riveting satire, "The Bonfire 
of the Vanities," takes the 
reader along on his tumul­
tuous odyssey through New 
York City--at its grandest and 
at its most pathetic. It is al­
ways intimidating. 
Although "The Bonfire of the Vanities" was first pub­lished in 1987, it has recently been released in paperback and recommends itself as a thoroughly modern, provoca­tive summer reading sugges­tion. 
McCoy is a young, ex­travagantly wealthy Wall Street bond trader. He lives with an attractive, yet so­cially preoccupied wife, Judy, and an angelic 6-year-old daughter, Campbell, who at­tends, "the best schools, with the best girls, from the best families." In addition, he en­joys a secret affair with the wily, adventurous, and gor­geous, Maria Ruskin who, as it turns out, is capable of being neither satisfied by nor loyal to a Master of the Uni­verse. Yet McCoy is seemingly a man who has everything. 
"The Masters of the Uni­verse were a set of lurid, rapacious, plastic dolls his otherwise perfect daughter liked to play with ... On Wall Street he and a few others had become precisely that-­
Masters of the Universe ... If 
you weren't making $250,000 a 
year, within five years you 
were either grossly stupid or 
grossly lazy. By age 40 you 
were making a million a 
year, or you were timid and 
incompetent." 
The first quarter of the novel is devoted to illustrat­ing McCoy's world and con­trasting it with the miserable situations of the other charac­ters. The preliminary chap­ters are the least enjoyable of the whole book, but patience for the first 150 pages is richly rewarded. 
McCoy's fortunes begin to plummet rapidly when his mistress hits and fatally in­jures a 17-year-old black boy, Henry Lamb, from the Bronx projects. McCoy is wrongly accused of a hit-and-run, and it is in this setting that Wolfe depicts the ethnic idiosyncrasies and the vanities of New York's finest and foulest. 
The most commendable aspects of the book are Wolfe's brilliant, hilariously overdrawn character sketches. The individuals who cross paths with McCoy rep­resent the stereotypes of every ethnic and economic group to be found in Wolfe's conception of the late 1980s morally decadent microcosm of New York. 
The members of the black community who rage for a mistaken justice are portrayed as dishonest, power-grabbing thugs. The Irish, Jews, and Italians who 
constitute the employees of 
the New York District Attor­
ney's Office, which seeks to 
prosecute McCoy for a crime 
he didn't commit, are 
depicted as the lusty, 
prejudiced pawns of the black 
activists. The women in 
McCoy's world, who inciden­
tally don't receive the same 
rich development Wolfe 
employs on the male charac­
ters, are either "social X­
rays, the starved to near per­
fection" wives of New York 
power brokers, or "lemon 
tarts," the young, ambitious 
second wives or nighttime 
consorts of the elite. 
Wolfe fashions a tantalizing 
portrait of a modern day 
Sodom and its culturally 
bereft inhabitants, to contrast 
with what he describes as 
McCoy's occasional longing to 
return to the chaste and 
simple Midwest. 
Nothing escapes attack by Wolfe's savage wit. The politi­cal aspirations and financial aggrandizement that could be realized by a few subtle dis­tortions and coverups of the actual facts of the case result in the district attorney's of­fice engaging in a hastily con­spired, inescapable perver­sion of legal ethics. The tabloid, "The City Light," which circulates the myth that Lamb was an honor stu­dent and the victim of a racist playboy, is run by snobbish and unscrupulous Englishmen. 
All the characters converge at McCoy's grand jury hearing to lobby for their own 


Wiskirchen's 30th Jazz Festival 
KATHY KIRIN accent writer 
N 
otre Dame tradition lives on this weekend as the 31st annual Collegiate Jazz Festival gets underway once again. This year also marks the 30th year that Father George Wiskirchen has been involved with the Festival. 
A noted campus music au­thority, Wiskirchen currently resides as associate director of bands and music. This weekend, however, Wiskir­chen's more important duties lie in his position as faculty advisor for the Collegiate Jazz Festival. 
As faculty advisor, Wiskir­chen interacts primarily with the students who are in charge of organizing and co­ordinating the weekend's 
BUZZ MC FLATIOP 
events. Together, they solve any logistical problems, and work with the Offices of Se­curity and Student Activities to ensure that everything runs smoothly as planned. 
However, Wiskirchen denies the importance of his role in the Festival, stating that he only advises and guides the student organizers when nec­essary. "My job actually means very little," he said. "The students do all the work." 
Wiskirchen's connection with the Jazz Festival began in 1960, when he was respon­sible for introducing and directing various high school bands in the Festival. Thir­teen years later, in 1973, he began recruiting and super­vising collegiate big bands and jazz groups for the an­nual event. This year will be 
his lOth as faculty advisor. 
As Wiskirchen's role in the Festival evolved throughout the years, so has the format of the Festival itself. Once a highly competitive event, the Festival now follows a non­competitive format. Several bands and ensembles are se­lected and honored for their outstanding performances, but the basic premise of the event is to "give various col­legiate jazz groups an oppor­tunity to play in a festival setting." 
One aspect of the Festival that has not changed is its reputation. The Collegiate Jazz Festival is the oldest and most prestigious of its kind, and as Wiskirchen stated, "I would be the first to agree with that." 
MICHAEL F. MULDOON 


Tl/£~;7.f'AI~ 7JV£. ~ sPIU-IN Sr. liMY~ 1M'.E I4Jjs 
I'I~JJ 13Y AN t.N­CO/>WI5:5IONE.P ~ 
!i:xie.t::£5 
-SAy. 
I 

IWP -rJ/8lE.. AI?E 517tL ~~~~~~~ t;k/£ST70fJ5 ~N~ 71(£ Wf./UI:.N!t,J75 OF 
IJt. I.J£f?£... 71(£ ~w. (,II ••. ~Pk-7lN6r 71{£ CAe~ 

""'~/ 

selfish interests and to apply the pressure so that the cor­rect verdict is reached. At this point it becomes readily apparent that all are living various degrees of the same lie, that the mantle of in­tegrity and fairness in which they clothe themselves is merely a foil for the actual falsity of their existences. 
Wolfe reserves an arresting plot twist for the last 30 pages and offers a conclusion as satisfying as possible in light 
WVFI Top Ten 
For the price of $5.95, "The Bonfire of the Vanities" of­fers exactly what it seeks to. "I don't know if you fully ap­preciate it or not, but you've broken a very important story with this Lamb and McCoy business. Oh, it's sensational; but it's much more than that. It's a morality play. Think of that for a moment, a morality play." 

~~~~~~t==~~~~~~~~~~~ 
1. 
XTC, "Oranges and Lemons" 

2. 
The Pogues, "Yeah, Yeah,..." 

3. 
The Connells, "Fun & Gamt:>.;" 

4. 
The Cfean, "Compilation" 

5. 
The Cult, "Firewoman" (single) 

6. 
Fugazi, "Fugazi" 

7. 
Leaving Trains, "Transportational d.vices" 

8. 
Firehose, "from Ohio" 

9. 
Robyn Hitchcock, "Queen Elvis" 

10. 
Mystic Eyes, "Our Time to Leave!" 



-----------~----------­
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks' Cash or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 233-2342 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009.  SUMMER LODGING IN SOUTH BEND SUMMER SCHOOL? WORKING HERE? YOU NEED PRIVACY TO STUDY, REST, AND PLAY AT YOUR BEST CHECK OUT A TURTLE CREEK STUDIO CALL JIM AT 272-4788 HOME Sublet, May 22-Aug.15, Three rooms, all furnished,225 $ plus uti lilies. near Emporium, call 2882532 MALE GRADUATES Furnished rooms, air, kitchen, fridge, 5 min. N. campus. 272-0615.  WE NEED A MIRACLE !I!!! AT LEAST 2 TIX WANTED FOR SHOWS IN LOUIS­VILLE AND CINCINNATI. CALL DAN OR CHRIS AT 4079 OR LEAVE MESSAGE. HELP!!!! I have a one-way ticket to Hous­ton or the Rio Grande Valley (South Padre Island), Texas to sell. It leaves from Midway a\10:00 on Friday May 12. $150. x3877 I need Grad.tlx. Will pay high $. Call Chris at 277-&921. ' Need Grad Tix Will Pay $ Call 2765 NEED GRAD TIX CALL PETE 277-4165  CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING Saturday April 8, 9:30pm at THEODORES Live Dance Music Free admission CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING LIVE MUSIC AT THEODORES SKYDIVING CLASS EVERY WEEKEND DEAN 287-3024  ATTENTION LADIES! Due to remaining Inventory from last samester, prices have been slashed! Act now! ROOMATE FOR SALE, housebroken, domestic wizard FREE or best offer! call# 3610 ................................................................ ANITA, STOP EATING THE WORMS! CHEMISTRY??? Kiss girls you don't know! St. Ed's Charity Carnival Sunday, April 23 It's perfectly legal  Alison is the EVIL twin! I am a stud You are a stud We am studs Colleen Cronin Will you go to dinner with me tonight? Call me. Paul  I ~  
································································ need ride to Michigan this wkend. $$, Mike x1723 FRUSTRATED? Need Money? Part time,13K-53K year. Now seek1ng highly motivated people for opportunities 1n management and sales. I need help now! Call Phil219-232-4783 \ LOST/FOUND ) FOUND: Set of keys in room 215 O'Shag. A University of Notre Dame Keychain­room 309. Call # 3688 to claim. ···························································· LOST:Brown leather jacket at Senior Bar. Keep the jacket if you must, but I need my trout light key charn and the keys on it and the other stuff in the pockets. PLEASE CALL JULIE at 4929 or 277­3216. REWARD! No questions asked!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! FOUND:BIFOCALS WITH BLUE FRAMES,OUTSIDE LIBRARY'S FOUN­TAIN & BY CCMB. CALL JOHN X1581 TO CLAIM Lost silver ring somewhere on campu It has a personalized inscription o it. II found please call 283-1584  L-W_A_N_TE_D---Jl Need two good men.$5.5o-hr. Part timE>'short term. Labor&Lifting Within walk1ng distance to campus. Call 277­1997. CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE WANTED FOR AIRLINE SERVING SOUTH BEND. PLEASE CONTACT J.GEDRA. CONTINENTAL EXPRES STANDARD OIL BLDG. CLEVELAND, OHI044135. CLERKS M-F 10pm to 5am;5am to 12m 4.25t1r M-F 9am to 4pm 4.0o-hr Great Little Food Store 12760 US 23 Granger 277-8102 FOR SALE J BMW R9G6 Motorcycle. 1976. 6 thousand orig. miles. excellent condition, brown, stock, $2200. 872-7315. NEW LONDON LAKE CONDOMINIUM Condo faces pool that's surrounded by a lake stocked with bass. Features 2 large bdnns, 2 baths, all appliances, 2 car garage & new carpet throughout. Located on Ironwood at Bulla. Close  [ PERSONALS I hi ag ADOPTION-Caring, financially secure couple of Irish and Swedish ancestry wish to love, cherish, and raise your new­born child. Legal and confidential. Please call Linda and Craig COLLECT: 212-877­3574 FOREIGN STUDENTS Job-Hunting Guide (Rev. 1989). Send $19.95 for the step-by-step guide. lvysoft, PO Box 241090, Memphis, TN 38124 Georgetown, Columbia, U Wisconsin, U of California, U ol Massachusetts and • Harvard are in step. ND AAN SCAP .... The Word of the Future!!! Use it NOW!! SUMMER JOBS ALL LANI:WIATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-343-8373.  Interested in starting an on-campus geographic club? GEOGRAPHIC CLUB INFORMATION NIGHT Thurs. April 6--Lafortune 6:30 Sarin Room JOHN TANSEY FOR FINANCE CLUB PRESIDENT!!!!! JOHN TANSEY­FINANCE CLUB PRES!! WHAT A GUY!!! MR.STANFORD IS COMING! MR.STANFORD IS COMING! MR.STANFORD IS COMING! ......... ······-­MR.STANFORD IS HERE!!!!!!! TIX AVAILABLE $2 MR.STANFORD CONTEST SATURDAY APRIL 8th 7:00pm LIBRARY AUDITORIUM FOR SALE:5 PIRANHA WI TANK,FILTER, PUMP,ETC. CALL JIM 277-9956 JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS Junior Formal PICS are in & may be picked up in the Class Office during regular hours. JUNIORS  AFTER HOURS AFTER HOURS AFTER HOURS AFTER HOURS ooooooononooooooooooooooooooooonooononorhooo•••••••••noo ROCK AND ROLL WITH AFTER HOURS FRIDAY CLUB 23, 10-1 AND SATURDAY McCORMIKS, 10-1 Attention Juniors All of a sudden, you're writing you resumes, and you realize there's no a thing to put on rt. So now you're getting active. We all know what you're up to. ANYONE WHO RECEIVED AN OBSER­VER QUESTIONNAIRE BUT HAS NOT TURNED IT IN VET, IT'S NOT TOO LATE!!!! PLEASE RETURN ASAP-WE NEED YOUR INPUT! THANKS ................................................................ MARIANNE, I LOVE THE HANDCUFFS BABE. WILL YOU PROMISE TO USE THEM? ...••.••••••••....•••"!!................. Sr TO BE LOOKING FOR ROOM­MATES ·IF YOU NEED ANOTHER RM OR WANT TO GET AN APPARTMENT CALL DAVE AT 1761 ································································ DAN FITZGERALD!!!  BARBARA BILLINGL Y'S OINTMENT THE DURAN DURAN OF N DAME 2-NITE MURPHY'S (CHIPS) 10-2 SPECIAL GUEST: GENE-GENE THE DANCIN MACHINE BRING GARBAGE More Z BALLS WEEK action: Frosh claims to be ill. Must've been something he ate. or something in the air, or maybe he caught a disease from Ween Ted. We all knew something was up. Meanwhile. Little Joey continues to sleep with his golf clubs. Now he'll have to ask them to the dance. JJUNIORS-JUNIORS-JUNIORS­JUNIORS .... Save your money, senior trip sign ups coming soon !11!1 JJUNIORS-JUNIORS-JUNIORS­JUNIORS .... H·Ev~·~·:.:;~~-~~~~~·i;~~~··;·~~cy·~~~~g~ abt SCREAMING AND ANTI­GRAV BOOTS for your bday. TOO BAD. Our 1st song in Ohio was FRIENDS & LOVERS. How appropriate. 2nd is Throwing it All Away. But it's already gone. Forever. Guess we'll never make children, huh? Oh well. IF YOU GOT A SURVEY ON NOTRE DAME DINING HALLS  I I I I I I I I I I I j l  
Lost: Emerald & diamond ring set in gold. Great sentimental value. II found please call Kelly # 2756. Reward offered. I LOST MY MOST PRIZED POSSES­SION A GOLD AND DIAMOND HEART SHAPED NECKLACE. IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL LISA AT 4945 LOST:BLUE NAUTICA JACKET AND SONY WALKMAN-WED. NIGHT AT STEPAN CENTER REWARD-CALL 1616 IF FOUND. NO ?'S FOUND: 2 Macintosh disks In parking lot In front of Fitzpatrick Hall. Call 239­ to everything. $77,700. Call Janice Hll­dabrtdle at Cressy & Everett 233-6141 or 233-8883. NEED A CAR? '81 SUBARU,FWD,108K $925 OR DECENT OFFER CALL 3554 For Sale: 1 way ticket from O'HARE to Portland,OR 5"13 at 10 A.M.$175 Call Mary P. at X 4015. JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS Class of '90 Dog Books are IN! Pick yours up in the Class Office NOW !I!  HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS SUM­MER (OR ANYTIME)? Jet there from Chicago Detroit, or Cleveland for no more than $229, or from the East Coast lor no more than $160 with AIR­HITCH(TM), as reported In Consumer Reports, NY Times, Let's Go, and na­tional network morning shows. For details, call 212-864-2000 or write: AIRHITCH(TM) 2901 Broadway, Suite 100G, NV, NV 10025 .. "JUNIORS: HOW TO FILL OUT THE PROFILE FORM." PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES. TONIGHT AT 7:00 P.M. ROOM  JUNIORS JUNIORS Take me out to the SB White Sox Home Opener. Friday Nite. Tickets $6 in the Junior Class Office. RIDE NEEDED: To Columbus Ohio,(or Ohio St.) Leave 417, return 49. Please call Laura at 284-5245. ··························· The wonderful thing about tiggers A tig­ger's a wonderful thing The tops are made outta rubber The bottoms are made outta springs They're bouncy,trouncy,tlouncy,  (P.O.) You owe me a back rub! KEVIN MOe­HEN !I! No more apple juice, please!!! TOM NEVELLAI!! You owe me a pair of shoes! SCOTT RUSSELL!!! Send more rubber roses! Please respond, 1can't take the tingling much longer! o·E-AR···s·;:Ev·E:··ei-rH-eR···H,r ME ··oR SHAVE OFF THAT STUPID BEARD II!! FROM YOU KNOW WHO LISA CONRAD~Th~t ~~azy Navy .g~y from Philadelphia is looking forward to some free beer and a dance tonight at Senior Bar! Get psyched'  please send them in to us throug Campus Mail. We really appreciate all you help. SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES LAST DAY FOR FORMAL TICKETS DON'T MISS IT!! SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES To all couples looking to adopt: young, loving, hea~hy, FERTILE female willing to conceive your baby. Respond here.  - 
5480 Beth to claim. found between NOH and psych bid. on tues 4-5. one goldish 3'4 loop earring. it doesn't go with my new spring collection so call x4436 to claim. FORRENT ) BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219-291-7153.  Price is $10. CANNONDALE Mtn. Bike, 1 yr. old, ex­ellen! cond., $375-b.o. Craig 283-3014 Pioneer CD Player PD-4100, only six months old. excellent condition, $135 call x1799 Technics Turntable SL-BD2; Marantz Tape Deck SD320; Jay '1910 TICKETS  123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. ALL MAJORS WELCOME. "JUNIORS: HOW TO FILL OUT THE PROFILE FORM." PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES. TONIGHT AT 7:00P.M., ROOM 123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. ALL MAJORS WELCOME. SOPHOMORES Applications lor Junior Parents' Weekend Chairperson available In Student Activities. Due Friday, April 7 by 5 pm.  pouncy Fun, fun, lun, fun, fun The wonderful thing about tiggers Is I'm the only one! RIGHT TO LIFE OFFICER ELECTIONS APPLICATIONS WILL BE MAILED TURN IN TO ANY OFFICER BY 4112 NEED APP? PICK UP IN 243 SIEGFRIED Tim and Linda are not engaged Tim and Linda are not engaged•We are sorry for the brutal pimp It was a bad joke.  The ST. ED'S CHAr:liTY CARNIVAL April 23 Stepan Center .................. The St. Ed's Charity Carnival (If you don't go it means you condone nun-beating) HEY SAILOR Thanks for two of the nicest days I've  Winnie-the-Pooh Winnie-the-Pooh Are you my Tlgger? ABE JACOB IS A MEATHEAD!!! THE WORLD TOUR CONTINUES AT CLUB 23 JOHN KENNEDY AND FRIENDS FRIDAY 8-1 To the two guys shootrng baskets Tues. night at 11:30 at Lyons. You have my  - 
ever had. I'll never forget it... and maybe  ball. It is sentimental Please return to  
NICE FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. 287-6389, 683-8889.  MONEY MONEY MONEY  BP I SPIRIT WEEK !  this summer we'll have a real boat. LOVE.  Julie Bernhardt 421 Lyons x2791 .... ··········· ..............  
HOUSE FOR RENT OVER THE SUMMER-NEAR CAMPUS. 232-3616  I NEED GRADUATION TIX and I can make it worth your while, call Dan at ~~~~  APRIL 2-8 BP BP BP BP BP BP BP  ONLY 2 DAYS UNTIL KERR! OWENS TURNS 20 BE PREPARED..  KIDDO P.S. Wow'--a personal too!!  BARBARA BILLINGSLy·s OINTMENT MURPHY'S 2-NITE 10-CZAR STORMS OFF STAGE  
- 

Thursday, April 6, 1989 
' 
AP Photo 

Kevin Hatcher (4) and the Washington Capitals beat Philadelphia 
goalie Ron Hextall (right) and the Flyers 3-2 in NHL playoff action 
Wednesday night. In other opening-round games, Pittsburgh beat 
the New York Rangers 3-1, Montreal ripped Hartford 6-2, Buffalo 
blanked Boston 6-0, Detroit nipped Chicago 3-2, St. Louis edged 
Minnesota 4-3 in overtime, Vancouver earned a ~-3 overtime victory 
over Calgary and Edmonton stopped Los Angeles by an identical 
4-3 score. 


Classifieds 
The Observer page 9 
once they faced pitcher James had an REI-triple in the first
Split 
Shortall in the nightcap. The game and reached second base Irish stranded 10 baserunners three times in the second 
continued from page 16 
in the second game. game...OF Dan Peltier, dip­kept feeling like we were going "I'm still finding out some ping below .400 after an 0-for-7 to beat them." things about our team," said performance against St. Louis 
In the first game, the Irish Murphy. "There's still some over the weekend, went 5-for-8 looked unstoppable as they guys I want to go with and see in the doubleheader including scored 13 runs on 11 hits in where they're going to be in the a home run and 3 RBI, raising seven innings. The team's 10 clutch. You've got to give them his average to .410. runs scored in one inning a chance to prove whether they The record-setting fifth in­topped its previous high when can or can't play. ning in the first game was a the Irish scored eight runs in "We're sticking with some spectacle to watch. Pesavento the third frame against Butler guys that maybe we won'thave led off the inning with a double, on March 23rd, en route to a to go with in the future, we'll and after a fly out by Craig 15-1 victory over the Bulldogs. see. We're still finding our­Counsell, Peltier singled him 
Junior Brian Piotrowicz im­selves as a team and we're get­home. James Sass was hit by a proved his record to 4-2 in the ting ourselves prepared for the pitch, and Joe Binkiewicz first game by shutting out the rest of the season." walked, loading the bases. Flames for five innings, allow­Shortall went the distance for Catcher Ed Lund doubled to ing five hits, one walk and the Flames, shutting out the right center, scoring Peltier striking out seven. Piotrowicz Irish while scattering five hits and Sass. Mike Moshier fol­lowered his team-leading ERA and yielding six walks. Prior to lowed with a single to left, to 1.69, a full point lower than his start against the Irish, Shor­scoring-Binkiewicz and Lund. anyone else on the squad. tall was 0-1 with a 6.94 ERA. After a pitching change, Jacobs 
Illinois-Chicago got two runs "We got a good pitching per­and Cory Mee both walked, off freshman reliever Brian formance from Shortall, and loading the bases again. Conway in the final two innings the difference in the two games Pesavento walked, advanc­of the first game. The Flames was control," said Illinois­ing all the runners one base, continued where they left off in Chicago Head Coach Dean Moshier scoring. Then, the the second game by pounding Refakes, whose team raised its pitcher balked and all the run­out nine hits and three runs off record to 5-12. "The big differ­ners moved up 90 feet, with starter Erik Madsen ( 4-2), who ence was pitching. Once you Jacobs scoring. Counsell fol­took the loss. keep the team in the game it's lowed with a sacrifice fly, 
Mike Coffey relieved Madsen a lot different on both sides." scoring Mee. Finally, with and allowed two runs on three EXTRA BASES: Freshman Pesavento on second, Peltier hits in two innings. DH Frank Jacobs went 4-for-4 provided the final blow by 
On the offensive end, the in the doubleheader, raising his blasting a home run over the Irish stopped producing runs season average to .269. Jacobs centerfield fence. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 until3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 


Hershiser's streak ends ; 


Associated Press 

CINCINNATI--Orel Hershiser lost his magic and record shutout streak in his first inning of the season and later lost the game when the Cincinnati Reds beat the Los Angeles Dodgers 4-3 Wed­nesday night. 
Hershiser's string stayed at 59 in­nings and was stopped when Todd Benzinger hit an RBI single with two outs. The run was set up by one of Her­shiser's two throwing errors. 
Hershiser, who did not allow a run in. his final six regular-season starts last year, pitched seven innings and gave · four runs, only two of them earned, on seven hits. The Cy Young winner and World Series MVP struck out six and walked one. 
Hershiser got nicked again in the third on hard singles by Eric Davis, Benzinger and Paul O'Neill. Ron Oester opened the fourth with a double and scored when Hershiser fielded a sacrifice by pitcher Tom Browning but threw the ball past the dugout. 
Cards 3, Mets 1 

St. Louis spoiled Bob Oieda's first 
start since he nearly severed the 
middle finger of his pitching hand and 
Willie McGee drove in two runs, leading 
the Cardinals past the New York Mets 
3-1 Wednesday at New York. 

The Cardinals snapped their 11-game losing streak in Shea Stadium and right-hander Jose DeLeon broke a per­sonal nine-game skid against the Mets. 
Phillies 12, Cubs 4 
Mike Schmidt's three-run homer capped a seven-run fourth inning Wed­nesday night at Chicago, leading the Philadelphia Phillies to a 12-4 victory over the Chicago Cubs. 
Schmidt's homer off reliever Jeff Pico was his second in as many days and the 544th of his career. Ron Jones also homered for the Phillies. 
Twins 12, Yankees 2 
Wally Backman's single snapped a 
fifth-inning tie and sparked an eight­
run inning capped by Brian Harper's 
three-run homer, leading the Min­
nesota Twins past the New York 
Yankees 12-2 Wednesday night in Min­
neapolis. 

Harper had three hits and drove in 
four runs to lead a 17-hit attack. Allan 
Anderson, last year's American 
League earned-run average champion, 
allowed seven hits in seven innings to 
improve his record to 11-2 since June 
24. 

Pirates 3, Expos 0 
Doug Drabek pitched a two-hitter as the Pittsburgh Pirates beat the Montreal Expos 3-0 Wednesday night at Montreal. 
Drabek, the Pirates' top winner at 15-7 last year, held the Expos to Rubie Brook's single in the first inning and a single by Andres Galarraga in the seventh. 
Padres 4, Giants 3 
Jack Clark's single keyed a three-run third inning as the San Diego Padres beat the San Francisco Giants 4-3 Wed­nesday at San Diego. 
Angels 6, Cnisox-2 
Lance Parrish had four hits and Chili Davis hit a three-run homer Wednesday night at Anaheim, Calif., as the Cali­fornia Angels beat the Chicago White Sox 6-2 and snapped a 13-game losing streak dating back to last season. 
Royals 2, Blue Jays 1 
Danny Tartabull doubled with two outs in the ninth inning and scored on Pat Tabler's single Wednesday night at Kansas City, giving the Kansas City Royals a 2-1 victory over the Toronto Blue Jays. 
-----.-A"Photo 
Los Angeles Dodgers pitcher Orel Hershiser had his record 59-inning scoreless streak snapped Wednesday at Riverfront Stadium when Cincinnati Reds' first baseman Todd Benzinger hit a two-out, RBI-single in the first inning. 
A's 11 , Mariners 1 
Walt Weiss, who homered three times all of last season, homered twice Wed­nesd~y night at Oakland and Bob Welch allowed four hits in eight innings as the Oakland Athletics beat the Seattle Mariners 11-1. 
Weiss went 0-for-3 in Oakland's opener, then homered off Scott Bankhead in the second and Tom Niedenfuer in the eighth. 
Braves 8, Astros 4 

Jeff Blauser put Atlanta ahead with a two-run double in the fourth inning and Gerald Perry added a pair of run­scoring doubles, leading the Braves to an 8-4 victory over the Astros Wednes­day night at Houston. 
Blauser's two-run double chased starter Bob Knepper after 3 2-3 innings and gave the Braves a 5-4 lead. 
NHL 
continued from page 16 
Los Angeles. Weak goaltending will doom the Kings, and Joey
Mullen (51, 59) and Joe Nieuwendyk (51, 31) will spark the Flames past L.A. and into the semifinals. 
There Calgary will meet St. Louis. Blues goalie Greg Millen 

-
(3.38 GAA) will need an as­bestos jersey to keep the Flames from engulfing the goalmouth. The Flames will singe St. Louis, while in the other semifinal, the speed of players like Mats Naslund (33, 
51) and defenseman Chris Chelios 05, 58) should lead Montreal past the talented Caps and into the finals to face Calgary. 
And speed is what will help the Canadiens squeak by the Flames in seven games in the finals. Coach Terry Crisp's Cal­gary squad is a very physical team, while Montreal relies on quick, smooth skaters to score goals. These skaters will stymie the slower Flames and lead the Canadiens to their 23rd Stanley Cup title. 

Fantastic Sam's Outpost Center 
3602 N. Grape Rd. Mishawaka 255-5433 
HOURS: 9AM-7PM 
-
Thursday, April 6, 1989 
The Observer page 11 

Arizona star Elliott wins Wooden Award 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES--Sean El­liott, called the "consummate team player" by his coach at Arizona, collected a distin­guished individual honor Wed­nesday when he was named the winner of the John R. Wooden Award for 1989. 
Elliott, a 6-foot-8 senior for­ward, had finished third in the national balloting by sports writers and sportscasters last year, behind winner Danny Manning and Hersey Hawkins. 
This year, Elliott edged out such stars as Danny Ferry of Duke, who also was among the five finalists for the 1988 Wooden Award. The other finalists this year were guards Sherman Douglas of Syracuse and Charles Smith of Geor­getown and center Stacey King of Oklahoma. 
Elliott received 1,871 points in the voting, with Ferry second at 1,721, followed by King with 895, Smith with 486 and Douglas with 356. 
The winner was announced, by Wooden himself, during a luncheon at the sponsoring Los Angeles Athletic Club. 
"Wow," Elliott said, tempo­rarily groping for words. 
"It feels good; with all the great players out there, I don't think you can really name one guy. There are probably several guys out there more deserving than I am." 
But Arizona coach Lute Ol­son doesn't think so. 
"I think he's the consum­mate team player. He's at his best when his best is needed," Olson said of Elliott, who averaged 22.3 points a game this season and had 2,555 career points to replace Kareem Abdul-Jabbar (then Lew Alcindor) as the Pacific­10's all-time leading career scorer. 
The guidelines for Wooden Award candidates extend beyond the athlete's ac­complishments on the court. To be eligible, a candidate must maintain at least a 2.0 scholas­tic average and "display strength and character on and off the court. " 


Bookstore preliminaries continue 
Bookstore Tournament 
Wednesday's Results 

Stepan 1 Rise and Fall of the Tower Commission over DOA by 5 Chestnut Mousse Lightning over LaLa's Top 5 by 11 Return of the Big Men from U. State over The Burke Rockets by 5 done 
Stepan 2 Spud Webb's 4 Other Short Guys over Phi Runna Gunna by 2 Hugh Wade's Disciples over Jazz in Liturgy by 3 Beezlebub and 4 Other Reasons... over Murray's Little Sister. . by 13 
Stepan 3 Nonoxynol Five over Ballet is a Weasel by 11 Skinny Juice over Zubincus by 13 
One Jerk Too Many over A Girl Who's Good With Swords.. ·. by 2 
Stepan 4 Rodents of Unusual Size over Demon Tartteasers from Hell by 2 
R.P. Ness, Gozinyu ... over An Other, A Squirrel. . by 12 Hate Dallas Early over Three-Man Team by forte>! 
Stepan 5 Noose Pellets over Barking Squid Meets the Doobage Master by 15 Waterin' Hole. Vish. Bert Facas over Hey You Kids Get Out of My Driveway by· 2 Maureen McFadden Passion Seekers over Chair­men of the Boards by 5 
Stepan 6 Air Check and Ground Support over Mien Chi Chien with a Side of Cabbage by 8 4 Guys with a Future and an American Studies Major over Just in T1me by forfeit A>r Borden over The San Diego Chicken, Foghorn Leghorn. . by 14 
Tennis 
continued from page 16 
Bayliss. "But he insisted on playing the doubles. Dave Reiter was also on medication and not up to par." 
Illness and a completely revised line-up were nothing compared to what Notre Dame faced once they reached the land of the Boilermakers. 
"We went to the outdoor courts and they sent us to the indoor place across town," said Bayliss. "When we got there, they told us to go back to the outdoor." 
The matches began and the Irish looked as if they would soundly defeat Purdue. Then the rains came and the matches had to be delayed 45 minutes before the indoor courts could be used. 
The Irish journeyed back to the indoor sites, but because of time constraints, had only five minutes to warm up on the car­peted courts. 
"It's the only time this year we've played on carpet," said Bayliss of the faster .surface. "Purdue, on the other hand, practices there, so it was a big disadvantage." 
Bayliss claimed the change directly affected at least one match, Ryan Wenger's 6-4, 3-6, 4-6 loss to Brain Ritz. Wenger was up a set and winning 2-0 in 
Bookstore 9 

Murphy's Men over Byrds and t~e Terrordactyls by 11 The Kids from the Gritty Streets over 5 Methods of Contraception by forfeit Improbable Cause over We Might Win Because Snuff is Not on Our T earn by 8 
Bookstore 10 Rubber Cement over 4 Guys and a Little Soul by 9 Transport Phenomenon over Our Swimsuit Issue is Glued Shut by 5 We Always Lose in the First Round over 5 Short Guys Who Like to Be on Top by 2 
Lyons 11 John Tower's Drinking Buddies over Charles Bron­son, Salmon Rushdie... by 9 John Tower, Keith Tower, and 3 Other. .. over Sal­mon Rushdie... by 11 Asmodeus and the Clameaters over Big Dogs Lan­ding on My Face by 14 
Lyons 12 Activated Sludge over Club Cochabamba by 19 Jeff Graduated...We Might Win Again over The Notre Dame Ratio by 16 Slammin' Vermin over Open Loop Shooters by 7 
Thursday's Games Stepan 1 
4:00 -AFROTC vs. Ollie North Fan Club 
4:45 -Return of the Greencoats vs. Darwin's Failure 
5:30 -Beasts of Burden vs. Ted Bundy, McDonalds, and 3 Other Classic Fries 
Stepan 2 

4:00 -The Moles vs. Ramna Lovers Who Like to Shoot 
4:45 -Help! Can't Buy Me Love, The Night Before... vs. The Creamy Cucumbers 
5:30 -Sweet Brick 'o' Mine vs. Traveling Dig­gerberries 
Stepan 3 4:00-Knott Girls vs. Groundskeepers of Busch Gardens ' 
4:45 -4 People John Likes and the Red Witch vs. The Primitive Bushmen 
5:30 -Plumbers vs. Zippy and the Pin-Heads 
the second when the showers began and moved his third singles match indoors. 
"Mike was playing a smart match in the wind outdoors and I think the adjustment totally hurt him," said Bayliss. 
The Irish did attain wins 

Bob Bayliss 
from Walter Dolhare, Brain Kalbas, Paul Odland and John Silk to lead 4-2 entering the doubles. In spite of the makes­hift doubles roster, Bayliss was confident about Notre Dame's chances. 
Because of limited court time, Bayliss and Boilermaker coach Ed Dixon agreed to cut possible third sets to simple tie­breakers. The decision came close to costing the Irish the match. 
"Our doubles combinations were completely thrown to­gether," said Bayliss. "But I wasn't worried. Then, one 
THE RILEY PRIZE IN ART HISTORY AND CRITICISM 
SUBMISSIONS FOR THE RILEY PRIZE IN ART HISTORY AND CRITICISM ARE INVITED FROM ALL NOTRE DAME GRADUATE AND UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS. ESSAYS MUST TREAT A TOPIC IN ART HISTORY OR CRITICISM. ONLY TOPICS DEALING WITH THE VISUAL ARTS ARE ELIGIBLE. THE PRIZE CARRIES A CASH AWARD OF $300. RULES MAY BE OBTAINED IN 132 O'SHAUGHNESSY. 
ENTRIES ARE DUE IN 132 O'SHAUGHNESSY BY 4:30PM ON FRIDAY, APRIL 14. 
Stepan 4 

4:00 -Pontius Pilate's Nail-Driving 5 vs. With a Canuck and a Short. 
4:45 -The Pelican Punishers vs. Juice Crew 
5:30 -5 Hoses from the Fire House vs. Whiskey Richard and 4 Other Guys.. 
Stepan 5 4:00-E-2 Cats vs. We're Ugly and Our Mothers Dress Us Funny 
4:45 -You Don't Want None of This vs. Hugh Jaynis and the Probes 5:30-The Staggenng Deficits vs. 16 Quarters, 9 Dimes, 2 Nickels. 
Stepan 6 

4:00 -One Foot in the Grave vs. 4 Long Cookies and a Chocolate Chip 
4:45 -C'Mon Goat Take the Shirt Off vs. Dan Quayle, Jane Fonda.. 
5:30 -We'd Rather Hve Fnends Than... vs. Dan Quayle, Digger Phelps. 
6:15 -Wally, Eddy, and 2 Other Guys... vs. The Horny Hartots from Hell 
Bookstore 9 

4:00 -Even We could Beat Valpo vs. The 
Mahogors 4:45-Charles Thompson, Donald Keogh ... vs. Marc Christian and 4 Other.. 
5:30 -The Regular Guys vs. Melancholy Bookstore 10 
4:00-The Null Hypothesis vs. Doctor Love and the Passion Quartet 
4:45 -We Had to Do It at Least Once vs. Hey Elmer Give Me Your Lunch Money 
Lyons 11 

4:00 -Sex vs. we Play Better Than Digger Coaches 
4:45 -Sweep It Under the Rug II vs. Teetels and the 4 Rips 
5:30 -Charles Thompson, Ben Johnson, Jay Edwards. . vs. Our Sheep Can Cook 
Lyons 12 4:00-John Tower, Frank Bruno, and 3 Who. vs. 4 Humans and A House.. 
4:45 -hit and Run vs. Power Tools 
5:30 -Without Sm~h vs. Barry Switzer, AI Capone, and 3 Other Famous.. 

doubles split and lost the tie­breaker. No.2 doubles also lost a close match 7-5, 7-6." 
The third doubles duo of Wenger and Odland saved the day for the Irish by winning an eight-game pro set 8-5. 
"We had no time left so we decided to play a pro set," ex­plained Bayliss. "Fortunately, our guys controlled the match from the beginning." 
Despite the difficulties, Bayliss was happy with the way his disabled team pulled together to come away with the expected victory. 
"Last year's team never would have won this meet," commented Bayliss. "It's not just that we're more talented but we have more determina­tion. We did not want to lose to Purdue." 
Bayliss also admitted that a few members of the young Boilermaker squad played "the matches of their careers" to give Notre Dame a tough challenge. However, the Irish skipper was quick to commend Notre Dame freshman John Silk, who won at sixth singles 7-6, 2-6, 6-4. 
"John hasn't played varsity often and he came off with a really big win," Bayliss said. 
The Irish now have a long layoff to rest and return to top form. They resume action April15 and 16 when they travel to St. Louis for the Midwestern Collegiate Conference tourna­ment. 
Join The Observer 
Ctil£4f3() C4t=l: 
2446 MIRACLE LANE • MISHAWAKA, IN 
2191255-6088 

YOU'RE INVITED!!! Come enjoy The Great Food and Atmosphere 
-PLUS!­Friday &Saturday Nights 
LIVI: 13LUI:S 
,.._\ IJ&E 

open for'lunch at 11:00 a.m. Open Sunday from 4:00·11:00 p.m. Town &Country Shopping Center on Mckinley 
(NEXT TO TOWN &COlJNTRY UOUORS) 
, 

I 
I I I 
l 
l 
I I 
~ 




Tourney 
continued from page 16 
disposing of DOA 21-16. 
We Might Win Because Snuff Is Not On Our Team needed Snuff, as they lost to Im­probable Cause 21-13. Three­Man Team evidently realized it was outmatched, as it for­feited to Hate Dallas Early. 
WNDU news anchor Maureen McFadden seems to be a favorite among two Bookstore teams. • She is the subject of two names--Maureen McFadden Is a Fabulous Babe and Maureen McFadden Pas­sion Seekers. 
The Passion Seekers won 21­16 over Chairmen of the Boards Wednesday, while the Fabulous Babe squad meets the winner of Nightingales and Malodorous Bad-Athletes next week. 
"I guess I'm flattered," McFadden said. "I think Bookstore Basketball is a legitimate concern on campus. If it doesn't get any worse than that, I can tolerate it." 

Happy 21st Birthday, Molly Ann 
May all your days be blessed with many eskimos and butter­
flies! 

I love you, Sunshine 
Coming: Apartheid Awareness Week-­Apr 10th thru Apr 13th 
Torture: According to .Alnnesty International "all evidence indi­cates that torture is extensively 
inflicted  on  political  detainees,  
and  that  the  Government  sane t ions  
its  use. u  Detainees  are  kept  for  

long periods in -solitary confine­ment. Direct torture includes beat­
ings, breaking of teeth witq pliers, electric shock to qenitals and other sensitive parts of the body, sleep deprivation and other forms of physical and mental abuse. 

.... 


~------------------------------~ --­
Papers accuse Rose of using code-name 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI--Pete Rose bet heavily on baseball games during the 1987 season under a code-name, two Ohio newspapers said Wednesday, citing uniden­tified sources. 
If true, the Cincinnati Reds manager could be banned from baseball for life if he bet on games in­volving his own club. 
A person referred to in an Internal Revenue Service court affidavit as. "G-1"-­whom the Plain Dealer of Cleveland and the Cincinnati Post quoted sources as saying was Rose--bet $8,000 to $16,000 a day on games during a stretch early in the 1987 season. 
Although Rose is not referred to by name in the IRS affidavit, the ne~spapers said they were told by federal sources the code name "G-1" means Rose. 
Rose declined comment on the newspaper reports. 
The Post quoted the docu­ment as saying G-1 bet an average of "$2,000 per game on four to eight games per day, approximately four days per week." 
The IRS affidavit quoted unidentified government in­formants as saying the bets were placed through Ronald Peters, 31, a Franklin, Ohio, cafe owner who was des­cribed in a Sports Illustrated story as Rose's principal bookmaker. Peters said Monday he would plead guilty to federal charges of tax evasion and cocaine dis­tribution. 
Peters declined to tell reporters whether he had any knowledge of Rose having bet on baseball games. Peters, under pres­sure of his plea agreement with federal prosecutors, is cooperating with federal in­vestigators looking into drug trafficking. 
The newspapers also re­ported the document indi­cates that Paul Janszen, a friend of Rose's, urged Peters to pay a $50,000 gam­bling debt the bookie owed Rose and Janszen. 

The Plain Dealer said U.S. District Court records show Janszen became an FBI in­formant and began wearing a wireless microphone in April 1988 and that federal agents taped at least four conversations about the debt. Janszen's lawyer, Mer­lyn Shiverdecker, declined comment on the reports. 
While Rose has denied bet­ting on baseball and using bookies, he has admitted he frequently bets at race tracks. 
U.S. attorney D. Michael Crites declined comment on the reports or whether the government is investigating Rose. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

The Irish softball squad dropped a doubleheader to Saint Francis of Joliet, Ill., Wednesday by scores of 2-0 and 3-2. Notre Dame is now 11-11 on the season. -The Observer 
Women's Bookstore Basketball teams may pick up schedules and rules from 2 to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday at the SUB office. -The Observer 
The Blue-Gold Game will be held Saturday, April 22, at 1:30 p.m. in the stadium. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be admitted upon presentation of an ID card at gates 15 and 16. Spouses and children must have a ticket. General admission tickets for the public are available from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Saturday at gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. Adult tickets are $3 in advance and $4 game day. Youth tickets are $1.50 in advance and $2 the day of the game. -The Observer 
A free synchronized swimming clinic will be offered Saturday, AprilS, from 3:45 to 5:45p.m. at Rockne Memorial Pool. The clinic is sponsored by NDSMC Synchronized Swimming Club and anyone may partici­pate. Call Dennis Stark at 239-5983 or Katie Boehling at 283-2646 for more information. -The Observer 
Squash Tournament sign-ups will be Thursday, April 13, at 5 p.m. in the NVA office for the tourney to be held Friday, April14 through Sunday, April 16. -The Ob­server 
BAKER'S BIKE SHOP INC. 




~iij:ij~r:r:a 
BICYCLES •EXERCISERS ..BMX HEADQUARTERS SALES-SERVICE-PARTS-ACCESSORIES 
SUMMER STORAGE  • • •  Cl OSEO SIINOAY & MON[)AV  
AVAILABLE  .  ~~t~~;~i~\~lG~oAv  10-'<M 5 30PM  
ROSELAND  MISHAWAKA  
277-8866  259-4862  


Masters take aim at Augusta 
Kite predicts softer greens will favor aggressive golfers 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga.--"lt's a dif­
ferent course this year,'' Tom 
Kite said of the site for the 53rd 
Masters. 
The first of golf's four major annual tournaments has not been moved from the Augusta National Golf Club, but the splendid old place is just not the same, in Kite's view. 
The difference is on the greens, he said. 
"They're fast, fast as ever," Kite said. "But they're a little softer." 
And that could make a major difference in the tournament which begins today, suggested the tough little man who has come so close so often here among the azaleas and dog­wood, the wisteria and redbud that color the course built by the legendary Bobby Jones. 
"The last couple of years, the leaders have just been trying not to lose," Kite said. 
"With the greens softer, more receptive to a shot now, there's the possibility of some­body making a charge over the last nine holes, coming out of pack and winning the tourna­ment." 
The greens could be even softer if the threat of rain be­comes real. 

The forecast calls for the pos­sibility of heavy rains and thun­derstorms on Friday and again on Sunday, the day the tourna­ment is scheduled to end. 
"We could be here Monday," Masters chairman Hord Har­din said. 

-
''Ifwe are unable to complete play Friday and make the cut, we could be in trouble," Hardin said. "We'll just have to wait and see." 
So will the starting field of 85 of the world's finest players and a gallery of about 40,000. 
Kite is on the short list of players most likely to be in title contention over those last nine holes. 

So are defending title-older Sandy Lyle of Scotland, British Open champion Seve Balles­teros of Spain, a revived Greg Norman of Australia and American hopes Curtis Strange and Mark Calcavecchia. 



Delany takes over Big Ten 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO--James E. Delany, named commissioner of the Big Ten conference Wednes­day, called for fresh ideas to keep sports from overpowering the academic life of student­athletes. 
"At this unique time in col­lege athletics, all is not well," said Delany, a 41-year-old lawyer completing his lOth year as Ohio Valley Conference commissioner. 
"I think it's important to find a better balance," he said. "There's got to be a way to make sure education is first. And I don't think that's the case in all institutions today." 
Delany will take over July 1 for Wayne Duke, who is retir­ing after 18 years as commis­sioner. 

"He is a person of unques­tioned integrity, who has dem­onstrated exceptional ability," said Stanley 0. Ikenberry, president of the University of Illinois and head of the Big Ten's governing board. "We look to him to provide leader­ship not only to our conference, but to provide leadership on the national level as well." 
Delany said the problem of boosters and sports agents cor­rupting student-athletes with money is worse now than it was 10 years ago. 
"Sometimes the values of pure capitalist competition is in conflict with educational 
ATTENTION: Grad Students, 


Professors, Employees 
MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Less than 1 0 minutes from campus 

(also-furnished executive suites) @ 
fQUAl HOUSING
call for details-277-3731 
OPPOOTUNITY 
values,!' he said. 
The pressures of big-time sports, television and national championships can be too much for some young men who enter college to play football or basketball, Delany said. 
"There has been tinkering with NCAA rules ... but in my opinion there has not been reform," said the new Big Ten commissioner, who played var­sity basketball at North Carolina and twice made it to Final Four competition. 

1988-89 PERFORMING ARTS SERIES Presents:  
SWEET HONE~ IN THE ROCK  
The Final Event of the Season Fri., April 7,8 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Tickets: $7.50, $6.50, $S.50 Reservations: .A 219'284-4626 Visa, MasterCard ARTS accepted MIDWEST -­--· f!; Saint Mar,Y's Colle~ NOTRE DAME •INDIANA  

.... 

----------------------~----------------~----, 
Thursday, April 6, 1989 The Observer 
Bolcar anchors linebackers 
Back-ups getting plenty of work during spring practice 
By MOLLY MAHONEY 
Sports Writer 
When describing a lineback­er, the word thin is probably not the first adjective to come to mind. 
In fact, most people see the intense eyes of a linebacker hovering behind the defensive line and are more prone to ascribe words like tough, pow­erful or quick to the hard-nosed players seen slashing through the offensive line to sack the quarterback or standing up running backs trying find open field. 
But in this case, it is not an individual linebacker, but the entire corps which is looking a bit emaciated lately. 
Last season, the Irish had one of the strongest linebacking trios in the nation, with fifth­year senior and "mike" linebacker Wes Pritchett leading the team in tackles. 
And on paper, with two mem­bers of that trio--Ned Bolcar and Michael Stonebreaker-­back next year, the Irish look to be a defensive force once again. 
But with the impending graduation of Pritchett and the unexpected loss of Stonebreaker from spring workouts after his Feb. 25 car accident, the linebacking ranks 
have  been  rather  thin  this  
spring.  
So  Ned  Bolcar,  who  will  

return as a fifth-year senior and one of next year's tri­captains, has borne much of the burden in guiding the young and inexperienced corps of linebackers in spring practice. 
Besides Bolcar, the only. scholarship athletes with linebacking experience are sophomore Donn Grimm and 
Getting into the right law School takes a lot more than just getting a high score on the new l.SAT It takes knowing how to master the new exam and knowing the intricacies of the application process. 
That's why Stanley H. Kaplan created the law School Seminar. There, you'lllearn how to improve your chances of getting into the law School of your choice. Review actuall.SAT questions. Even learn about getting the highest score on your LSAT by using the Kaplan method. And most importantly, you'lllearn how to maximize your law School application. 
So reserve your seat today for our next Seminar And discover how our advanced teaching methods and 50 years of experience can help you plan the next three years of your life. 

~STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
l Take Kaplan Or TakeYour Chances 
KAPLAN EDOCATIDNIAL COIT£R 
1717 [. SOUTH 0£ND AVE. SOUTH BE:Nl, IN 46637 219/272-4135 
Mike Smalls. And three walk­ons, juniors Joe Farrell, Chris Shey and freshman John Far­ren, round out the Irish linebackers. 
"I think they will be strong," defensive coordinator Barry Alvarez said of the seven players vying for a linebacking position this spring. "But right now, they're a little thin. 
"We're grateful for the three walk-ons, because without them, it would be difficult to have a good practice. They are doing a nice job, and do whatever we ask of them with­out even thinking lwice." 
Bolcar, who played both "eagle" and "mike" linebacker positions last season, has moved into the eagle slot and has been the elder statesman for the linebackers this spring. 
He finished last season ranked fourth in tackles with 57, seeing action in all 12 games, and the coaches have looked to Bolcar to exercise his captain's duties frequently this spring. 
"Ned's a good leader," said Alvarez. "His play has really improved during spring drills and it helps having a second­year captain's leadership out there to push the younger players." 
Bolcar sees his role in the same light. 
"I realize we don't have a lot of depth," said Bolcar, "so they count on me to do a good job and be a leader. 
"A linebacker has got to be the captain of the defense and keep the guys together on the field, so I try to lead by exam­ple on and off the field and hopefully help the defense to come up with big plays." 
Stonebreaker's recent clash with the law may not hinder his playing in the fall, but it is yet to be seen whether a broken kneecap and dislocated hip will keep the top candidate for next year's Butkus Award from re­turning to top form. 
Stonebreaker, a consensus All-American last season en route to finishing third in the running for the Butkus Award given to the nation's top linebacker, could leave a con­siderable void at the eagle linebacker position if he cannot fully recover. 
"Mike should be ready to play in the fall," said Alvarez. "He's ahead of schedule and healing well and the doctors are happy with his progress." 
But with Stonebreaker ab­sent from spring practices, other players, such as Grimm and Smalls, have stepped for­ward to make their presence felt. 
Smalls has helped fill the eagle linebacker spot, while Grimm's versatility has al­lowed him to play the eagle· or mike linebacker, depending upon the team's needs. 
"I think Mike Smalls is really learning the game and I'm pleased with his toughness and aggressiveness," said Alvarez. "I think he's going to be a good football player for us. 
"And I am really pleased with the progress Donn Grimm has made. He's been working very hard for us this spring." 
Both will help the Irish con­tinue using the linebacker corps on a rotating basis, such as the three-man rotation 
employed  last  year  with  
Pritchett,  Stonebreaker  and  
Rolcar.  

~,. 
.;\ 
~.t..·.· 
w 
--~· 

··~ 
The Observer I File Photo 

Fifth-year senior and tri-captain Ned Bolcar will be a key figure in 
the Notre Dame linebacking corps in 1989. Molly Mahoney takes a 
look at the linebackers at left. 
Comir..q: Apartheid A.-.reness Yeek-­Apr 10th thru Apr 13th Children: Black children in South 


SATURDAY, APRIL 8, 3 P.M. 
Africa bear much of the the apartheid system. A between the ages of one 14 times more likely to 
white  child  and  has  less  
in  five  chance  of  going  
sixth  grade  at  school.  

in the last seven months more than 8000 children 
detained and many of those were tortured or physically assaulted. 
brunt of 
black child and four is die than a 
than one beyond furthermore, 
of 1986, 
were 



ND fencing teams foiled in bids for national title 
By CHRIS FILLIO 
Sports Writer 
While the 1989 NCAA fencing season is now over, thoughts of what could have been will remain for some time in the minds of the Irish. 
For the men's squad, it was a fourth-place finish behind repeating national champion Columbia, while Penn State and Penn came in second and third, respectively. 
The women's team took third as the Wayne State Spartans also defended their title, with Columbia taking second place. 
Neverthless, both results were disappointing--and shocking--to say the least. 
"Obviously I am disap­pointed, more for the kids than for myself," said Irish head co­ach Michael DeCicco. "It's pos­sible that they may have let something slip through their fingers." 
For the women especially, the loss was tough to handle. While they were able to defeat eventual national champ Wayne State on two different occasions this year, the breaks simply did not go in their favor. 
In the loss to Columbia, which decided the right to fence WSU for first place, the Irish suffered a key setback when a simultaneous touch was called against them. As a result, they tied Columbia in bouts but lost in overall touches. Wayne State went on to dispose of Columbia in the final. winninl! its second straight national champion­ship. 
"Everything seemed to be going as planned," said DeCic­co, "until we lost that simulta­neous touch to Columbia." 
Senior captain Janice Hynes placed sixth overall in individ­ual standings, earning second­team All-America honors. Senior Kristin Kralicek took lOth, while freshman Heidi Piper was 13th in her first year of collegiate action. Senior Brenda Leiser and sophomore Lynn Kadri also competed for the Irish in the team competi­tion. 
DeCicco commented on the need for a gold-medal con­tender to pace the women's team. Four-time All-American Molly Sullivan propelled the Irish to the national title two years ago in her junior year. 

"Next year we'll still have the nucleus of a very good team," noted DeCicco, "but we'll have to develop the caliber of gold-medal performers necessary to lead the team." 
The women will look to Kris­tin Kralicek next year, as she has made tentative plans to ap­ply for her final year of eligibility. In addition, fresh­man phenom Piper will return following a successful rookie season. 
In men's foil, senior Yehuda Kovacs took seventh and gar­nered All-America honorable mention. Junior Derek Holeman was 30th in his first year at the NCAA tournament. 
"I feel bad for Yehuda be­cause the gold medal was one of the few goals he had left to accomplish," said DeCicco. "Following his first lost bout, he struggled and couldn't return from that initial set­back. Unfortunately, the Penn State fencer who won the gold is someone that Yehuda has beaten several times in the past." 
Sophomore sabreman Les­zek Nowosielski placed fifth overall, making him a second­team All-American. Classmate Dave Kirby finished 17th, just missing the final round of 16 by a single touch. Both fencers had strong showings over the season and will undoubtedly continue to be a potent force next year. 
In the epee competition, team captain Ted Fay was 12th while Niles, Mich., native Todd Griffee took 18th. The Irish will have a tough time next year in their efforts to replace the two senior epeeists. 
"I'm very hopeful with some of the recruits we have coming in for next year,_" said DeCicco. 
While both WSU and Columbia graduate only a few seniors and retain several strong individuals, the Irish have the makings of a solid al­beit young team with in­credible potential. 
Right now they may be but a step away from that champion­ship season. 

The Notre Dame fencing teams had disappointing be just a step away from returning to the top of the NCAA tournament appearances this season, but may collegiate ranks. 

Who needs practice anyway? 
Freshman Haugh takes 2nd in U.S. on six days' work 
By BARB MORAN  long as you know your  -(coach) Yves Auriol is  
Sports Writer  weapon." Rachel Haugh knows her  definitely the best there is." Haugh's relationship with  
Here's a scenario:  weapon.  women's coach Auriol has ex­ 
A varsity athlete at a Divi­ In 1988, she placed second in  isted since she began fencing  
sion I university cannot com­ the women's national under-20  in sixth grade at the Portland,  
pete in, or even practice, her  division in epee, and fifth in the  Ore., club which Auriol  
specialty event during the  junior circuit event. This year,  founded.  
season.  she already has captured first  "I've known Rachel for a  
Now imagine this same ath­ place in the U.S. Junior Olym­ long time," the coach said.  
lete finishing second in the  pics in Colorado, and 26th in the  "She has great desire and is a  
, United States and 26th in the world in her event, for which  Junior World Championships in Greece. During her 10-day trip  hard worker. She's going to be a big help for the team in the  
she practiced only six days  to Greece, which she returned  next three years, and I'm glad  
before competition.  from last Thursday, she had six  to see her doing so well in epee  
Hard to believe?  days to practice and remember  nationally."  
It shouldn't be. Freshman  the event which she had laid  Haugh became involved in  
fencer Rachel Haugh has done  aside for the regular season.  fencing through her older bro­ 
all this and more in her first  With all the on-and off­ ther John, who also began his  
year at Notre Dame, even  season travelling, Haugh often  career at Auriol's club. John  
though the odds seem stacked  finds herself catching up on her  was a member of the 1986 Notre  
against her.  heavy workload on long plane  Dame NCAA championship  
Because Haugh's specialty  rides and nights after competi­ team.  
event, epee, does not exist in  tions. Despite the hard work  Fencing and Notre Dame run  
NCAA women's competition,  and extensive travel, Haugh  in the Haugh family. Rachel's  
she practices only foil during  has never doubted whether or  twin sister Kellv is a teammate  
the regular season.  not it's all worth it.  at Notre Dame, and her other  
"Training for epee doesn't  "I have no doubts at all, it's  sister Bryn is a member of the  
help the team since we only  definitely worth it," said  Saint Mary's fencing team.  
compete in foil during the  Haugh. "I love fencing and am  "We've been Notre Dame  
season," said Haugh. "Train­ very pleased with Notre Dame.  fans since we were kids," said  
ing with foil doesn't hurt your  The fencing program and the  Rachel of herself and her  
epee performance, though, as  coaching staff here are teriffic­ siblings.  
NDISMC 10 Required



IllALUMNI SENIOR .. . I 


~presents






i!:CLUBr 

CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING
Thirsty THURS 
Come see the campus band CHAMPIONSHIP 

$ 1 NATIONAL 
that everyone is raving about! They've taken 2nd place in the Nazz

CLUB CUPS 
FRIDAY LUNCH 
band competition for the past two years 

FRIDAY LUNCH 
What makes them so great?

FRIDAY LUNCH 
Come see for yourself!
... NOON-2:00 

FRIDAY NIGHT: 

Saturday Nite at 10:00 PM 
Barbara Billingsly 
Thursday, April 6, 1989 The Observer page 15 

CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 
7 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents "Juniors: ACROSS 24 Sea between 47 Actress Lupine 
Asia Minor and 

How to Fill Out the Profile Form," by Mr. Paul Reynolds 48 School in Mass.
1 Crocus's 
Greece

Room 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. ' 
reproductive 49 Kefauver's "­structure America"
27 Gets results 

7 p.m. Intervarsity Christian Fellowship Bible Study "Psalm 
5 "--Ia vista'" 31"-girli" 53 Flowering 
6," 317 Lewis Hall. 
10 Environmental 32 Source of a shrubs of the sci. fragrant honeysuckle family
14 Leigh Hunt hero rootstock

LECTURE CIRCUIT 
57 Actor teams up with a singer15 Magistrate in 34"Cara-," 
Sparta 1954 song Noon. Peace Institute brown bag lecture "Deadly Conver­
16 Cob or drake 59 Alaskan 
35 Screen hero 

gence: The State of the Arms Trade," by Michael Klare, statesman
11 Recording artist meets TV
Hamshire College, Room 101 Law School. 
joins an actor personage 60 Egg-shaped 20 Shaped like a 39 Black bird 61 One of the bristle Penns
4 p.m. Peace Institute lecture "Low Intensity Warfare," by 40 On the hefty side 
21 Truman's last 62 Eyetooth 
MiChael Klare, Room 105 Law School. 
41 First, in Frankfurt

Secretary of 63 Broadway 
State 42 Some musical: 1954
clergymen
22 Kind of verb: 

4 p.m. Law lecture "Gender and Moral Theory," by Onora 
64 UnexcitingAbbr.

O'Neill, Room 115 Law School. 44 Nobel Prize 23 Dom. of seven winner in Henrys Chemistry: 1920 DOWN 
4:15p.m. AT&T Visiting Scholar series "Breaking the Cycle of Disadvantage by Building on Our Successes," by Lisbeth 
..
1 Areas in trucks 
B. Schorr, Harvard Medical School, Hesburgh Library ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 2 Newspaper Auditorium. notice, for short 
3--poly 4 Meat and 12 Bread spread 29 Leading 49 B-G connection 
7:30p.m. Friends of the Snite Museum film "After the Thin 
• vegetable stew 13 Sprat's diet 30 Speedy 50 Melodic mode in
Man," Annenberg Auditorium. 
5 Mohammed's Hindu music 
18 Time long past 31 Slightly openflight from 
51 Film producer Mecca J
19 Gold: Comb. 33 Hosp. group
MENUS form Tors 
36 Abounding in
6 Footless 52 Gulf of Finland creature feeder
24 Make amends trees 37 "-feathers
1 Haggard novel 25 Moral 53 A-Able
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
...":Pope .
8 Indian weight 26 Author of "The 54 Conceit 
BBQ Pork Pork Loin Roast 
38 Most tractableLast Voyage" 
9 A symbol of 55 Eliot's Bede 
Beef Stir Fry Spaghetti 
43 Strategist's
comfort 21 Get all gussied 56 Word in a New
Fried Chicken Cheese Fondue consideration
10 Bert Convy and up Year's song
Baked Ziti Deli Bar 
Dick Clark 45 Personify
28 Hebrew dry 58 Nol of 11 Detroit products measures 46 Nothing, in Nice Cambodia 
COMICS 
PSST.' S\lS\E I ~T l>ID 11\t.'{ 00 10 'bJ? DID ~ Gtr t.Xf\.ll.E.D :' 'fOO 0\DtH Sl'\\Tt.l\ C>N N£. D\l) 'fO\l" 
BERKE BREATHED THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
BILL WATIERSON 
~00 PIP 'fOU'Rt. 6<:111-lG UP SNIP\! 1\\E R\'-JE.\1., ~l~l~. 'foll'RE fl.. 
STOOLIE.' 
ACAN.&.~'f! 












American Values IAmerican Film 
Discussion with 

Gene Siskel 
on Thursday has been cancelled. Refunds available at LaFortune Information Desk Possible rescheduling to be announced 

---~-~-~~ ----~~--~--~--­
----~ 




Sports • 
Thursday, April 6, 1989
~e 16 

,.. 
~__........____ 
. ~ 
.. ..
Just in Time gets disqualified <­
~ 
~J 


as Bookstore XVIII continues . ... 
By GREG GUFFEY officials came to the realization liminary round. Assistant Sports Editor that he had played for another One Jerk Too Many downed team earlier in the tourney. A Girl Who's Good With 
Just when it looked like all After the game, officials Swords, a Girl Who's Always five players on 4 Guys With a awarded the win to 4 Guys With Wet and 3 Non-Varsity Athletes Future and an American a Future and An American 22-20. We Always Lose in the Studies Major didn't have a fu­Studies Major. First Round finally won, ture, justice stepped in. "I thought I could play for defeating Five Short Guys Who 
The clock ran out Tuesday on another team as a substitute. I Like To Be on Top 21-19. Just in Time, as preliminary didn't know the rules explicit­John Tower may not the be action continued in Bookstore ly," Fleisher said after the the Secretary of Defense, but Basketball XVIII. Just in Time game. he took out some frustration on defeated 4 Guys With a Future "It's kind of a cheap way to opposing teams Wednesday,
.. 
and an American Studies win, but it's nice to get further especially Salmon Rushdie. Major 21-8, but tournament of­in the tourney," said Leo John Tower's Drinking ficials realized after the game Leone, a member of the team Buddies shot down Charles that the winners had used an that advanced. "It will be fun Bronson, Salmon Rushdie and illegal player. to play anot,her game." 3 Other Guys With a Death 
Jim Fleisher played for We It was the first time an illegal Wish 21-12, while John Tower,l Dribble But Skiko Scores in its player had played this year, al­Keith Tower and 3 Other Guys 
21-5 win Monday afternoon and though tourney officials caught With No Shot routed Salmon then took the court for Just in a player that had played on an­Rushdie and 4 More of the Time Wednesday. He was sub­other team before his second Ayatollah's Homeboys 21-10. I bing for Jim Karrels, who could game started. Rise and Fall of the Tower The Observer I Paul Compton not make it to the game. There were several close Commission made it 3-of-3 by 
Andy Carr, right, and Transport Phenomenon outbattled Our
Fleisher signed in as Karrels games Wednesday, as 29 other 
see TOURNEY I page 11 Swimsuit Issue is Glued Shut to earn a 21-16 victo~ behind the
and hit 11 baskets, but tourney teams advanced out of the pre-
Bookstore in Wednesday's tournament action. 
ND tennis 

Irish split with Flames;

weathers 

Peltier sets RBI mark

elements 

By SCOTT BRUTOCAO players that ever played here at Notre Dame, and I think he'll 
By CHRIS COONEY 
Sports Writer 
go on and have a good career
Sports Writer 

It was a day of extremes on someday, but he's still got to Wednesday as the Notre Dame improve, and he knows that."
Who ever said wins had to be baseball team split a Peltier's single in the fifthpretty? 

doubleheader with Illinois­was not only a record-breakerCertainly not the Notre Chicago, winning the first but also the beginning of a mas­Dame men's tennis team, game 13-2 and losing the second sive offensive outburst by thewhich had to struggle through 5-0. Irish, who now own a 16-6sickness, rain and an un­In the first game, junior Dan record. In that inning, the Irish familiar surface in order to Peltier became the all-time scored 10 runs, a season record. 
defeat Purdue 5-4 on Tuesday. 

RBI leader with 131 in his After setting that record inIrish head coach Bob Bayliss 
career. Peltier set the record the fifth, the Irish would notsaid the win came despite the in the fifth inning, when he sin-score again. In the second"worst-case scenario" facing . gled to center to score Pat game, the Irish could onlyNotre Dame. 
'Pesavento from second base. muster five hits, all singles,The 16-9 Irish traveled to It took Peltier 125 games to without a run.
West Lafayette knowing they break 1988 graduate Tim Hut­"In the second game, wewould be without the services 

son's record of 128. Hutson set didn't play with much enthusi­of Mike Wallace. In addition, the record in 160 games. asm," said Murphy. "We didn't No. 1 player Dave DeLucia was "I can't believe that there hit the ball the way we had to.
sidelined from the singles com­.. '"" can be too many bett-er hitters We got complacent. The firstpetition with the flu. 

The Observer I Trey Reymond in any other college anywhere game took three hours; the"Dave was just too weak to 
Notre Dame third baseman Mike Coss fires to first while shortstop than Dan Peltier," said Irish second game went by quick. We
play singles," remarked 

Pat Pesavento (12) looks on in Wednesday's action at Jake Kline head coach Pat Murphy. "He's 
see TENNIS I page 11 undoubtedly one the see SPLIT I page 9
Field. The Irish split a doubleheader against Illinois-Chicago. of top 


Canadiens en route to another Stanley Cup 
Last year at this time it appeared as though the 
slumping Minnesota North Stars, who will play Calgary Flames and Montreal Canadiens would without injured leading scorer Dave Gagner (35,
Ken

breeze through the Stanley Cup playoffs and collide 43). head-on in the Finals. Neither team survived past Meanwhile the Detroit Red Wings and the Chicago the quarterfinals, however, and the Edmonton Tysiac Black Hawks will square off in a meeting of two Oilers drank champagne from the Stanley Cup. teams that fizzled at the end of the season. Super­
Sports Writer
But this year it will be a different story. Montreal center Steve Yzerman (65, 90) and winger Gerard and Calgary are head and shoulders above the rest Gallant (39, 54) should power Detroit past the woeful of the league. Both teams boast stingy defenses and the Washington Capitals, however. The Caps are Black Hawks, but they will not slow down the Blues, superb goaltending, and have benches deep enough notorious for choking in the playoffs, but a solid who have beaten Detroit three straight times. The to give opposing coaches nightmares. defense anchored by Scott Stevens should power home ice advantage won't save the Wings against 
Here's how the NHL playoff picture shapes up: them past the Flyers and Penguins. the Blues, who will unceremoniously dump Detroit Patrick Division: The Philadelphia Flyers own the Adams Division: The Buffalo Sabres are 5-0-3 in into Lake Michigan for a season-ending ice bath. league's best power play, and goalie Ron Hextall eight games this year against their first-round op­Smythe Division: Wayne Gretzky (54, 114) should 
(3.23 goals-against average) is always a threat to ponents, the Boston Bruins. The Bruins will dearly lead the Los Angeles Kings past his former Edmon­get hot in the playoffs. The Flyers are not as strong miss injured sparkplug Ken "The Rat" Linseman ton Oiler teammates in a first-round shootout. The as they used to be on defense, however, and should (27, 45) and should lose to Buffalo despite holding Oilers, led by 100-point scorers Jari Kurri and lose to Washington, tQe division champs, in the first the home ice advantage. Jimmy Carson, simply aren't the same now that round. The Hartford Whalers should be easy first-round Gretzky is gone, and will give up too many goals 
The New York Rangers lost 14 of their last 17 prey for Montreal unless the trio of Kevin Dineen to win this grudge match, which should go seven games, and it's doubtful that GM Phil Esposito's (45, 44), Ron Francis (29, 48), and Ray Ferraro (42, games. firing of coach Michel Bergeron one week before 35) catch fire. Montreal's superior skaters will har­Calgary's first-round opponents will bE} the Van­the playoffs will shake any life into the comatose poon the Whalers and then take advantage of Buf­couver Canucks, an excellent defensive team which Rangers. League scoring champ Mario Lemieux falo's goaltending woes to advance to the Stanley is led by its goalie tandem of Steve Weeks (2.98 (85 goals, 114 assists), winger Rob Brown (44, 66) Cup semifinals. GAA) and Kirk McLean (3.08 GAA). Vancouver and defenseman Paul Coffey (30, 83) should spark Norris Division: The league's weakest division will lacks the offensive firepower to beat Calgary, the Pittsburgh Penguins past New York in the first be singing the Blues as St. Louis, which went 12-4-2 however, and the Flames will advance to play round. in its last 18 games, continues to skate well. In the 
see NHL I page 10

Pittsburgh lacks the playoff experience to beat first round, St. Louis should easily dispose of the 




