
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Ietc.: St. Patrick's Day at ND IVIEWPOINT: SMC stifles discussion 
·, 
VOL. XXII, N0.1 02 
Warnings given before Flight 103 bombing 
Cover-up charged by UK's Labor Party 
Associated Press 
LONDON-The Transport Department said it issued two warnings of a bomb plot in the month before Pan Am Flight 103 blew up over Scotland, but the airline 
· said Thursday the second one came weeks late, by mail. Members of the opposition Labor Party accused the government of a cover-up and demanded an investiga­tion. The department issued its state­ment Wednesday night after a newspaper report of the warnings. Opposition legislators failed in their at­tempt to get an emergency debate Thursday in the House of Com·mons. The warnings issued Nov. 22 and Dec. 19, just two days before the disaster that killed 270 people, spoke of a bomb hidden in a radio-cassette player, the Transport Department said. Police say they established that the ex­plosives were in a radio-cassette player planted in a suitcase stowed in the jumbo jet's hold. Flight 103 originated in Frankfurt, changing to a Boeing 747 in London. It 
Islamic conference opposes I ran on Rushdie 
Associated Press 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia­Moslem nations rejected Iranian positions on both "The Satanic Verses'' and Afghanis­tan at the final session Thursday of a four-day confer­ence. 
Foreign ministers of the 46­member Organization of Is­lamic Conference condemned the "The Satanic Verses" but did not support Iran's ord~r that author Salman Rushdie be killed. They also endorsed the interim government formed by 

' Afghan guerrillas in Mghanis­tan, which gives little power to Shiite Moslem insurgents based in Iran.
~ 
t Delegates adopted 50 resolu­tions, many of which dealt with collective support for the Pal­estinian uprising in Israeli­occupied territories, now more than 15 months old, and regain­ing the Arab sector of Jerusalem. The conference issued a sep­arate declaration condemning Rushdie as an apostate but did not approve Ayatollah Ruhol­lah Khomeini's fatwa, or reli­gious decree, of Feb. 14 order­ing Moslems to kill the author. 
The declaration did not men­tion Iran's demand that Is­lamic Conference members break relations with Britain and other Western powers. 
blew up Dec. 21 over Lockerbie, Scot­land, killing all 259 people aboard and 11 on the ground. 
Suspicions of a bomb plot arose in Oc­tober when West German police caught a Palestinian terrorist group with a radio-cassette player containing ex­plosives and a barometric device that would detonate a bomb at high altitude, according to British and West German officials. 
"We sent advice to the relevant secur­ity authorities,'' the Transport Depart­ment said in its statement. "They were told what to look for. The American aut­horities would have done the same for American Airlines." 

On Dec. 19 the Transport Department sent out the information again, with ad­ditional details and a photo of the radio­cassette player rigged as a bomb, the statement said. 
In Frankfurt, an official said Thursday all airlines operating in West Germany were told in early November about the 
see WARNING, page 3 

Flower power The Observer I E. G. Bailey J 
Sophomore Kim Kolbert prepares flowers for St. Patrick's Day in Irish Gardens, in the basement of Lafortune Student Center. Only on St. Patrick's Day are green flowers 
J 
greatly in demand. 
j
Cheney approved ~ 

by Senate panel I 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The Senate Armed Services Committee on Thursday unanimously ap­proved Defense Secretary­designate Dick Cheney, sen­ding the nomination to an 
Cheney has difficult job ahead, page 7 
expected easy Senate con­firmation on Friday. 
The 20-0 vote was in marked contrast to last month's defeat of former Texas Sen. John Tower in which the committee decided 11-9 along party lines 

'Christmas in April' will repair 50 local homes 
By NATASHA WILSON Senior Staff Reporter 

The University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will join forces with the South Bend community on April 8 to make $250,000 worth of repairs on 50 homes in the city. 
Their efforts will be a part of "Christmas in April," a one­day work session in which se­lected houses in the Northeast neighborhood of South Bend 

FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 1989 
to repair the houses. The stu­dents, faculty, and staff of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will probably provide more than one half of the workers, members said. 
The homeowners were cho­sen as recipients on the basis of their low income, and elder­ly, handicapped or single­parent status, according to Anne Mannix, chairperson of the ''Christmas in April'' house selection committee. The committee tried to select the houses that were in the most need of repairs, said Mannix, 
see REPAIR, page 6 
against the nomination. 
President Bush, during a question-and-answer session in Houston, said he was very pleased at the panel's action. But he reiterated his criticism of the tone of the Senate debate that led to Tower's rejection. 
Tower, he said, had been "tried by perception and rumor. That is not the Ameri­can way." 
After the rancorous debate over Tower, the committee moved with lightning speed on Cheney, a six-term Wyoming 
see CHENEY, page 5 

Jl 
·----------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------~~~ 
The Observer Friday, March 17, 1989 INSIDE COLUMN 


The Observer needs student input to succeed 
page 2 
IN BRIEF 
Eight deacons will be ordained priests in the Congregation of the Holy Cross at Sacred Heart Church at 1:30 p.m. on Saturday, Aprill. The eight to be ordained are Rev. Mr. Michael Helinski, Rev. Mr. Terence Coonan, Rev. Mr. Richard Gribble, Rev. Mr. James Gunshinan, Rev. Mr. Robert Loughery, Rev. Mr. Stephen Newton, Rev. Mr. Martin Nguyen, and Rev. Mr. Joseph Ross. All those to be ordained, except Newton, joined the Holy Cross Fathers at Moreau Seminary. Newton entered Holy Cross Seminary here. All except Ross were ordained deacons last August at Notre Dame. Ross received the diaconate on March 2. Five of the deacons hold Masters of Divinty degrees from Notre Dame, with Helinski and Gribble re­
.ceiving theirs from the Jesuit School of Theology in Cali­fornia and Newton receiving his at Loyola in Chicago. -The Observer 
Inmate James Brown works with a prison choir while supporters try to win early release for the "Godfat­her of Soul" in a nationwide campaign. Jesse Jackson urges compassion for Brown, who is serving a six-year prison sentence for trying to run over two police officers during a two-state chase last fall. But the campaign to free Brown has not persuaded South Carolina corrections officials to move up Brown's parole eligibility date from May 12, 1991. In his spare time, Brown sings with the choir and composes on a laptop keyboard. -Associated Press 
OF INTEREST 
Free transportation to the downtown area will be provided by Transpo from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. for the St. Patrick's Day festivities. The buses will follow their reg­ular routes. 
-The Observer 

The Glee Club St. Patty's Concert will be Friday at 7:30p.m. in Stepan Center. Admission is free and dona­tions will go to The Irish Children's Fund which helps children of Northern Ireland spend a few weeks in the United States away from the violence. 
-The Observer 

Senior Class Mass will be held in the Zahm Hall Chapel on Sunday, March 19 at 4 p.m. Father Andre Levielle will be the celebrant. 
-The Observer 

The Feast of Saint Patrick will be celebrated at Sacred Heart Church today at 5 p.m. Bishop John d'Arcy will preside. All of the sacred music for the liturgy is by Irish composers and will be offered by the Notre Dame Folk Choir. 
-The Observer 

A Latin American Pena will take place at ap.m. on Friday, March 17 at the Community House of University Village (U.S. 31, North of Campus). The event is co­sponsored by the GSO and GALA. Food and drinks will be provided. 
-The Observer 

"Christmas in April" Dorm Commissioners and Community Service Commissioners must attend a man­datory meeting at 4:30p.m. on March 20 and 21 at the the Center for Social Concerns. For more information, contact Mary Sue at 4414, or the CSC. 
-The Observer 

The Notre Dame AFROTC Crusader Drill Team will have a full dress inspection on Sunday, March 19 at 12 noon. The inspection is open to the public and will be held (weather permitting) in the ACC parking lot. Other­wise, it will be held in the Loftus Athletic Facility. 
-The Observer 


Design Editor .................. Laura Stanton Etc. Editor ................... Robyn Simmons Design Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . Ann Buff Etc. Copy Editor ................. Mike Restle Typesetters .................... Molly Schwartz Etc. Designer...................... . Tim Irvine ............................................ Dan Towers Typists................................. Sue Barron News Editor....................... Tim O'Keefe ............................................ Rosi Lozada Copy Editor .......•............... John O'Brien ND Day Editor ................ Betsy Mennell Sports Copy Editor ........... Frank Pastor SMC Day Editor ............. Alissa Murphy Viewpoint Copy Editor .... Janice O'Leary 
'nt Okca ta (USPS S99 l-4000) il published Monday tbrouah Friday accpc duriQa cum IDd vacation periods. n.Okca •• il publisbcd by tbe students of tbe University of Noue DuDe IDd Saint Mary's CoUeac. Subscriptions may be purcbu­ed for S40 per yar (US per ICIDeltcr) bJ writiaa n. 011 ••· P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. lndiaaa 465". 
n. Olx•• il a IDelllber of "he AIMdatM rw-. AU reproduction riahts arc raerved. 
A few weeks ago one of the previous Editors­in-Chief of the Scholastic wrote a farewell column in which she remarked that she would not wish her job on her worst enemy. It's a shame that after many years of hard work that she feels that way about her work on her publication. 
What she felt is not what college activities are about. They are a place to learn and have fun. At times one will encounter many obstacles to one's goals, but as Lou Holtz said once, "In the face of adversity you can get better or you can get bitter.'' 
I have worked for many years on The Obser­ver and despite many obstacles that we have encountered, we have overcome them and we are very proud of the product we have produced. We at The Observer plan on getting better and better. 
Counting today's issue I have been The Ob­server's Editor-in-Chief for a week. And al­though it is still too early to say, I believe that it will be a successful and enjoyable year. Mter three years at The Observer I have made many friends and learned a great deal and I am proud of the things we have been able to accomplish. 
The purpose of a student publication is to in­form the student body, and also to provide an enjoyable and educational extra-curricular ac­tivity for students. Our staff of over 200 students has been doing just that for many years now and will continue to do so in the future. 
Like any other newspaper in the world our primary goal is to cater to the needs and wants of our readership. The Observer is the students' newspaper and we try to make every effort to make it better for them. 
It is very hard to guess, however, what our readership would like to see and so we need your input. Please feel free to write or call The Observer with suggestions on what you, the reader, would like to see. 
Through intelligent student input The Obser­ver will be able to adapt to the needs of the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. There are many parts of the paper that we plan on changing in the next year to make it better but we can't possibly have all the answers. 
The Observer has continued to improve over the years and I have every reason to expect that in the next year we will do even better. As a source of campus news The Observer has done an adequate job in the past but we plan to dramatically increase the number of impor­tant, in-depth and timely campus stories in the future. 
In The New York Times one can read about President Bush but not the new Notre Dame Student Body President. The Observer should not only cover national news but we should do an extraordinary job covering the news that 
Add some excitement to your Senior Formal with Tuxedos from Louie's 
BLACK CLASSIC 
$32.50* 
DESIGNER BLACK TUXEDOS 
$49.95* 
Choose from: 
Christian Dior Pierre Cardin Yves Saint Laurent Robert Wagner 
Formal Peg Pants Designer Shirts & Vests 

Chris Donnelly 
Editor-in-Chief 


directly affects you on campus. In the future we hope to increase the quality and quantity of this coverage. 
Another goal for this year is to increase the amount of coverage on the Saint Mary's campus. Too often Saint Mary's is overlooked by Notre Dame. Through the continued im­provement of our Saint Mary's staff The Ob­server will be able to garner more information . about what is happening on the Saint Mary's campus. 
Perhaps The Observer's greatest shortcom­ing in recent years has been its lack of editorials. By the end of my term as Editor-in­Chief The Observer will print a minimum of two editorials a week on a variety of issues. Through more editorial commentary our goal is to increase student awareness of the world around us and and stimulate responses. 
The Observer will also undergo many design changes. By improving the look of the paper we plan to make The Observer both easier and more enjoyable to read. Not only will the quality of articles be a priority but so will the visual impact of our product. 
INPUT. INPUT. INPUT. I can't stress this 
point enough. With your suggestions The Ob­
server will be better able to meet the goals we 
have set for it. No matter what the obstacle we 
will overcome it and succeed it producing an 
better student newspaper then ever before. 

:}4~~Nif:t?~r:-..-~-. ~-··· ~~: ;;-t 

University Park Mall 
. 's has

272-2486 
yoiJr 5tyle!
LOIJie

*I:Joes not include damage waiver fee or extra charge items. 
I
--------~--------------------~~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
I 
Friday, March 17, 1989 

Associated Press
Mrs. Letterman is back 
Margarat Ray, who has been charged with breaking into talk show host David Letterman's home, shouts at photographers berfore being led into court for a competency hearing on Wed­nesday. Ray, who has claimed to be Letterman's wife, has broken into his home four times. 
Summer 


STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW I683·19~91 
• 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS •APPROX 2V2.MILES NORTH US31-33 

•GA.TES 
OPEN ALLDAY SUND.\Y 



Master Mini Warehouses 
P.O. BOX 100 NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
"BEST LITILE STORE-HOUSE IN MICHIANA" 

The Observer page 3 
City, student gov't officials meet on Off-Campus crime 
According to MarCiniak, however, the use of canines to deal with large crowds such as parties is standard procedure. He said, "We have no specific task force to break up student parties." 
"The students seemed to ask why the police waste time breaking up parties when there are serious crimes in the area. I responded that the consump­tion of alcohol by a minor is a violation of state law and we must respond," Marciniak said. 
Police surveilliance for St. Patrick's Day was also dis­cussed at the meeting. Doyle said, "The police chief told us that no extra measures were planned for the holiday. He said that the force does not expect any problems as long as the students act within reason and don't challenge the authority of the police." 
Kernan said, "The meeting was a great opportunity to get together with representatives of student government to talk about mutual concerns." 
warning published by the Daily Mirror showed it addressed to "All U.K. airlines (and El AI, Air India, U.S. airlines, and South African Airways)." 
The Mirror said the notice advised security authorities to look for telltale signs: that the instrument wouldn't play, its insides would rattle, the X-ray would show more wiring than usual and the antenna socket would be taped shut. 

Pan Am said a memo dated Dec. 19 did not reach it until Jan. 17, but it declined·further comment. 
Trans World Airlines said Thursday the Federal Aviation Administration told it Nov. 18 of the bomb found in West Ger­many. British Airways said it got both warnings from the Transport Department on the days they went out. 
LINCOLNWOOD MOTEL 3300 L.W.W. (US 20) Under New Management Open 24 hours 
All modem clean units 
(219) 234-4063 

Are you finding yourself with a tight schedule for St. Patrick's Day? Well fit this in-You won't regret it! 

BILLY ''STIX'' NICKS AND THE N'S AND OUTS! 
This Motown band has been hit at Alumni-Senior Club time and time again­come and see what you've been missing! ~ Playing from 9:30-1:00 TONIGHT! -~~~~~~--~--~ 
By SARAH VOIGT Staff Reporter 
In an unprecedented meeting of both campus and city repre­sentatives on the problem of off-campus crime, South Bend Police Chief Ronald Marciniak and Mayor Joseph Kernan met with members of student gov­ernment and Vice President of Student Life John Goldric.k on Wednesday. 
Tom Doyle and Mike Paese, student body president and vice-president, asked Goldrick to organize the closed meeting to discuss ways to help prevent students from becoming vic­tims and targets of off-campus crime. Neither Marciniak nor Kernan had ever met with stu­dents to discuss the South Bend crime problem before. 
According to Doyle, the meeting "laid the groundwork for improved relations between the student body and the South Bend police force. We were able to voice student concerns and learn what the police ex­pect from students. Matt Bres­lin and Dave Kinkopf will con­
tinue this practice this 
semester and next." 
Doyle said that crime pre­vention officers have offered seminars in high-risk neighbor­hoods to educate students about locks, alarm systems, and other preventative measures. 
Marciniak urged students to become involved in these neighborhood crime groups. "In the past, it has been diffi­cult to get student participation at these meetings. We often have only had a few students show up," he said. 
Doyle also voiced off-campus students' concern about gang violence in the area. He said, "The police have assured us that there are two officers working full-time tracking gang movement. We all want to keep them out of the north­eastern neighborhood." 
· Doyle said that that the use of canine squads to break up parties was a "touchy issue. We feel that the need for dogs is unnecessary and we are looking into the possibility of keeping them out of parties." 
Warning
continued from page 1 
radio-cassette player contain­ing explosives. 
Manfred Langendorf, chief of the Hesse state interior min­istry's office for airport secur­ity, said the West German warning "included a photograph of the radio­cassette bomb and all airlines were notified, including Pan Am." 
"Our warning to all airlines went out in early November and security was stepped up then," he said. 
A photostat of the Dec. 19 
. . 
.
.-::· 

Announcing ABCAF Presentation of the 1989 fashion extravaganza, 
"La Celebracion de Negro." 
Come celebrate with us. 
Tickets available at the Minority affairs Office on the Mezzanine $5.00. (Information concerning transportation will be listed in the Of Interest... section of the Observer-stay posted) 
Any questions please call Laurenteen Carla Morris at 283~4968 
--~----~-~ 



Friday, March 17, 1989 

Matheney could face death penalty 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND-An inmate charged with killing his wife during a brief prison furlough will face the death penalty if convicted, a prosecutor said Thursday. 
"We believe the death penalty is appropriate, and we intend to pursue it to the fullest extent," said St. Joseph County Prosecutor Michael Barnes. 
The defendant, Alan Mathe­ney, 38, is charged with murder and bur lgary in the March 4 beating death of Lisa Bianco. She was assaulted outside her Mishawaka home by a man wielding an unloaded shotgun, police said. 
Barnes said the formal paperwork seeking capital punishment will be filed Mon­day in St. Joseph Superior Court. 
"We'll allege a minimum of one aggravating circumstance listed under the law for impos­ing the death penalty," said Barnes. 
Indiana law cites burglary as one of 12 aggravating circum-



ANDERSEN CONSULTING 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO. 
We are looking for intelligent, ambitious Notre Dame juniors who desire challenge, love to learn, and have a need for variety. 
We invite you .. to sign up for a summer internship interview in our Chicago Consulting Group. 
• 
Math/C.S. 

• 
MIS 


• CAPP 

• 
Engineers with programming expenence 

• 
Students interested in working in Chicago after graduation 


Interviews to be held on March 30, 1989. See the Placement Office for details. 
stances  that  permits  aut­ 
horities  to  seek  the  death  
penalty.  

Matheney has filed a notice of intent to plead insanity. 
"It's a legal defense and we'll prosecute it the best we can," said Barnes. 
Hours before Bianco's death, Matheney received an eight­hour furlough from the Indus­trial Correctional Complex in Pendleton, where he was ser­ving an eight-year term for beating Bianco in 1987. 
He visited the Granger home of a friend, where the prosecu­tion alleges he committed bur­glary by taking the .410-gauge shotgun used to bludgeon Bianco. 
Matheney was returned Tuesday to the custody of the Department of Correction and transferred to the Indiana State Prison at Michigan City. 
Barnes said he has metwith Madison County Prosecutor William Lawler to discuss Matheney's actions in the county after his release from prison. Pendleton is in Madison County. 
The Observer page· 5 

Public health chemists of the California Department Wednesday afternoon. Testing was spurred by a of Health Services test apple juice and applesauce report last month on the alleged cancer risk of a in the food and drug laboratory in Emeryville, Calif., chemical used on some apples. Story, page 6. 
Cheney 
continued from page 1 
congressman who won wide 
FREE 

TANNING 

Hours: Daily 9-8

(Next to Venture) 
Sat. 9-6

Grape Rd. 
Sun. 11-5

277-7946 


Chleago llalr(uffingc~ 
popularity among his col­leagues on Capitol Hill as House minority whip, the second-ranking Republican leadership post in the chamber. 
The committee praised Cheney's "high standards of personal conduct and in­tegrity," saying they "would · help to restore public confi­dence in the integrity of defense management" at the Pentagon, which was rocked by massive contract fraud case last year. 
Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., the chairman of the committee who led the fight against Tower, called Cheney "highly qualified.'' 

Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 219-259-9925 


___... 
·l 

The Observer Friday, March 17, 1989 
Government says apples are not a health hazard 
Pesticide scare may cripple apple industry 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-Federal health officials sought Thursday to calm growmg public fear over the consump­tion of apples by children, tel­ling Congress that pesticide levels on apples pose no "im­minent hazard" to pre­schoolers. 
Some senators said the uproar over the use of the chemical Alar on apples and its health effects on small children has produced an apple scare that threatens the industry from New York to Washington state. 
"The apple market is dead as a doornail right now across America," said Sen. Steven Symms, R-ldaho, whose family is in the apple business. Other senators said they now hesitate to give apple products to their own children. 
Many apple growers and processors say their apples are free of Alar, which has been linked to cancer in animal tests. But large numbers of parents are reported to have stopped giving apples to their children since a private envi­ronmental group said youngsters were especially at risk from the chemical because they eat more apples and apple products than adults. 
School districts in Los An­geles, Chicago, New York, San Francisco, Miami and else­where have stopped providing apples in school cafeterias since the report by the Natural 
Resources  Defense  Council  
gained  widespread  publicity  
last month.  

At a Senate subcommittee hearing on the apple contro­versy, Sen. John Warner, R­Va., urged the Bush adminis­tration "to exercise some crisis control" because apple growers, even those who do not use Alar, are being hurt and parents are confused by con­flicting information. · 
Three ~ederal agencies, the Food and Drug Administra­tion, the Environmental Prote~tion Agency and the Agriculture Department, issued a joint statement urging parents and school officials to continue providing children apples and apple products, saying there is no "imminent hazard posed to children in the consumption of apples at this time, despite claims to the con­trary." 
B~Ro~p~!1 
who is affiliated with the North­east Neighborhood Center. 
"These are people who can't afford to do the repairs on their homes any other way than if the materials and labor are donated. There are a number of elderly people in the neigh­borhood (with monthly) in­comes between $300 and $700,'' she said. 
The selection committee also inspected the houses and tail­ored the repairs to the needs of the houses and the capacity of the volunteer workers. 
The 20 workers at each house will probably address roofing, plumbing, heating, electrical, painting and general cleaning needs. Donations of materi­als and monetary gifts by over 20 local businesses and resi­dents will cover the costs of "Christmas in April." The project organizers stress that they are still accepting dona­tions. Interested donors may contact volunteer coordinator Pat Doran at 239-5550. 
"The success of the project is dependent on widespread support from both Notre Dame and South Bend," said Missy Conboy, publicity chairman. 
"The response for the Notre Dame and So~th Bend commu­nity to the request for volun­teers has been outstanding,'' said Conboy, an assistant ath­letic director at Notre Dame. 
Several residence halls at Notre Dame have made "Christmas in April" their an­nual community service proj­ect. Some halls have already confirmed the participation of 95 percent of their residents, according to Doran. 
Doran said his appeals to the Saint Mary's students and the Notre Dame faculty and staff have encouraged 200 and 50 people respectively to volun­teer. 
"We'd liked to see more (student) volunteers from off­campus," said Doran, assis­tant director of Residence Life at Notre Dame. "Since they live on the Northeast side 
which is adjacent to the campus, ("Christmas in April'') is an opportunity for them to promote better rela­tions with their neighbors." Volunteers will work side by side with the family members who live in the houses. 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students must return volunteer sign up sheets to the Student Government office or to Doran by March 22. 
The unskilled workers will perform tasks "anywhere from painting to cleaning up base­ments, garages (and) making the homes of these people safer and warmer," said Doran. 
"The skilled trade unions have backed this project whole­heartedly. In addition we've received positive response from many contractors throughout the city who will be providing tools that we need to get the work done." 
"Christmas in April" com­mittee chairs said they plan to make the project an annual event. "This year we're con­centrating on the Northeast neighborhood. Next year (the project) could go to another neighborhood," said Mannix. 
"It makes such a difference to do houses all in one neigh­borhood because it's easier to see the overall improvement,'' said Conboy, who repaired houses in 1986 during "Christmas in October" in Kansas City. 
In case of rain on April 8 the project will be postponed to Aprill5. A party for the volun­teers will be held at the Alumni­Senior Club on the Notre Dame campus following the comple­tion of the project which will run from 8 a.m. to 4:30p.m. 
Along with South Bend, three other cities will begin their in­augural year as "Christmas in April" cities next month, joining the 16 veteran cities across the nation. 

CHEERS! ON ST. 
DOYLE'S DAY 
HAPPY 

BIRTHDAY 
Latin-American "Pena" 
featuri~g 

songs, dances, readings, slides, music 
when: Friday March 17. 8:OOpm 
where: University Village (married student housing, North of campus, facing bldg. H) 

"Spanish" snacks will be served 
$2 at the door Co-sponsored by GALA and GSU Open to all graduate students 
The service project was started in Midland, Texas about 10 years ago. It has spread to Washington, D.C., which will repair 85 inner-city houses this April. 
"The University hopes the project will set an example to the alumni clubs across the country so that they will create their own "Christmas in April," said Doran. 
r 

=Ihe=ObserYer----=· 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Day Chief 
For further information, please contact Matt Gallagher at 239-5303 or 283-1957. 

\IRICH.. YIBRANT. ..EXOTIC 
AN OFTEN DAZZLING FIRST FEATURE." 
-N.Y. TIMES 

"DEMANDS TO BE SEEN! 
FASCINATINGI EROTIC.I,"
I I 
-VILLAGE VOICE 
INTERitATIONAL.

KINO INTERNATIONAL PRESENTS CRmCS AWARD
~ 

• ~ ~N~
Wedd1ng 
-..... 'IN r # 
GALILEE 
A FILM BY MICHEL KHLEIFI 
page 7

Friday, March 17, 1989 The Observer 

Cheney faces difficult job in Defense Dept. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Dick Cheney, the Wyoming con­gressman about to become sec­retary of defense, is tackling one of the most difficult man­agement jobs in government with only an outsider's knowl­edge of modern weapons and with the extra weight of a late start. 
"All the problems are com­pounded" for Cheney, says Caspar Weinberger, who served almost seven years in the job. 
"He's a fine choice and he will be very good. But he faces a very daunting task," Weinberger said in an inter­view Thursday. 
Other officials still inside the Pentagon, who asked not to be named, say it's possible for a congressman to jump into the huge military bureaucracy and shine. 
For example, one said, Mel­vin Laird did well in the Nixon administration. And Cheney, who like Laird held a leader­ship post among House Republicans, is no stranger to most of the big issues, the offi­cial added. 
But Cheney is about to leap from running a Capitol Hill of­fice with relatively few employees to becoming the boss of 3.1 million people. And he is doing so with little time to select key assistants and aides. 
The first important job he'll face is trimming the fiscal1990 budget. And he's never played that peculiar brand of Pent­agon politics. 
"Dick Cheney is about to walk into this job right when it's time to play referee among four services that are attacking each other in hopes of saving their own budget," said one of­ficial. 
President Bush already has ordered the Pentagon to slash about $6.4 billion from its fiscal 1990 budget proposal ''and now 
it's  dog-eat-cat  time,"  the  
source said.  
Weinberger  recalled  such  

military budget fights, saying, 
If you've ever dreamed of beilit; behind the controls of an airplane, this is your chance to find out what it's really like. 
A Marine Corps pilot is coming to campus who 

"Everybody has recommen-knowledge possessed by Bush's dations of their own--their own first choice for the job, John hopes and needs--and there's Tower. never enough for everybody. ... Tower, a former chairman of It will be very, very tough" for the Senate Armed Services Cheney. Committee, was widely known 
To make matters worse, the for his exhaustive knowledge of congressman doesn't have the such details. His personal life, detailed military-program however--including allegations 
If you're cut out for it, we'll give you free civilian flight training, maybe even $100 a month cash while you're in school. And someday you could be flying a Harrier, Cobra or F/A-18. 
can take you up for trial flights. 
We're looking for a few college students who have the brains and skill--as well as the desire-to become Marine pilots. 

Getataste 
oflife 
atthe top. 
Get a taste of what life is like at the top. The flight's on us. 
MaybeJVu can beone ofus. 
of excessive drinking and womanizing and his financial relationships with military contractors--led to rejection of his nomination last week. 
Cheney, by contrast, after being lauded for his honor and integrity, was approved 20-0 Thursday by the Armed Ser­vices Committee and is ex­pected to clear the full Senate without opposition Friday. 
One Pentagon official said anyone who sets his mind to it can learn what weapons the na­tion depends on, how they work, how they're produced and how much they cost. 
"But that takes time, and Cheney doesn't have any," he said. 
Rocco's Hair Styling 

531 N.Michigan St. Phone 233-4957 
(olumbon Fathers -......... 
"PURPOSE" 
DOES IT MATTER? 
...What you will do with 
your life? 
...How you will use your God-given abilities and talents? 
...That you may be called to be a positive influence in the lives of people in Asia, South America, West Indies, South Pacific? 
Young Catholic men interested in the Missionary Priesthood, should contact: 
I,--------,Fr. Michael O'Loughlin 1500 ' 
I 
National Vocation Director 
1 
Columban FathersI St. Coiumbans, NE 68056 I
I (402> 291-1920  I  
II Name  I I  
I Street  I  
I .I oty  State  Zip  II 


FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL 1-800-728-9228 

--------,-----.......----------------------------~-------­
...
._ ......... ~-~ -.•_...... "!' --.....-­


page 8 The Observer Friday, March 17, 1989 
$ cr. $ ci: $ $ ci' $ *$ ti: $ tl: $ *$ ci' $ ciJ $ ci' *ti' $ ci' $ *$ *$ ci' $ Ci' $ *$ 

C*H*R*I*S*T*M* A *S In APRIL 1 9 8 9 
South Bend, Indiana 
What Is It? 


CHRISTMAS in APRIL is a one-day work session during which the homes of the needy, elderly, and handicapped residents of the Northeast Neighborhood will be renovated and repaired by teams of volunteers. The South Bend Community has joined forces with the students, faculty, and staff of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's to make Christmas in April a reality for some Northeast Neighborhood homeowners. It will be followed by apicnic. 

Who can volunteer for ~ 
~ 
I 
I 
CHRISTMAS in APRIL? 
Anyone eighteen or older can be a Christmas in April volunteer. Volunteers come from churches, businesses, schools, community service organizations, corporations, associations, and interested individuals. They represent all professions. Volunteers need not be skilled at home repairs, but those who are will be well placed.
1 What repairs are done? / 
Each scope of repairs is tailored to the need of the individual participant and the capacity of the volunteers recruited for the Christmas in April. It is anticipated that roofs', weatherization, plumbing, heating, and electrical needs will be addressed. Yards will receive a Spring cleaning and, if needed, the painting of home exteriors to give a new face to the neighborhood. 
~ What can YOU do??? r 
0 All we ask is a donation of one day of your time and energy. Any special talents you have, such as carpentry, or electrical or plumbing skills, would be greatly appreciated ... 
0 Enthusiasm, though, is the rr1ost important contribution you can make. Anyone and everyone can handle a paintbrush! eWe are also in the process of seeking contributions of materials and supplies, as well as monetary donations to cover our necessary expenses. $There will b~ sign up opportunities withjn your ball For more infonnation contact your hall president or commtJnity service commissioner! 
•*•*•*•*•*•*•*•*•*•*•*•*•*•*******•*$***•* 
Yes, I am interes.ted in participating in "Christmas in April" on April 8, 1989. NAME_____________________________________s_s__t __________________ 
ADDRESS.__________________________________________________ 
PHONE NUMBER____________________________________________ 
Special Skills (please list):.________________________ 
Please turn this in to the Student Government Office, second floor La Fortune 
Viewpoint
Friday, March 17, 1989 

page 9 
P.O. Box Q 
Agee exercised poor judgment 
Dear Editor: 
I attended the talk on Wednesday night by Mr. Philip Agee, the 1956 Notre Dame graduate who became 'disillu­sioned' with the CIA's covert activities and resigned to write a book exposing its activities, along with the covers of 250 agents. I must point out that in his speech, Mr. Agee had several valid points concerning some historical aspects of covert activity by the CIA. However, I became seriously at odds with him during the question and an­swer session which followed when he painted a picture of Nicaragua and Cuba as shining examples of successful revolution for the rest of Latin America and even for the poor and homeless in our own country. This is an appalling revelation in light of the fact that op­position, especially in the latter country, is silenced, and the media are controlled by the state. The state entrenches itself in power either through overt force and intimidation or through 'one-time-only' elections in which only the ruling party is allowed to participate freely-not a very good example for the liberal 'intellectuals' of this country to follow in their quest to liberate the destitute. 
Furthermore, while Mr. Agee may have had personal moral principles (acquired while socializing with leftists in Mexico City) which prevented him from continuing his career in the CIA, his way of departing was both destruc­tive and offensive to the voting public of the United States. When he blew the covers of the agents he listed in his book, he compromised countless mis­sions and endangered the lives of many of those agents. While he was quick to point out in his speech that no harm came to any of them, I see this as a combination of luck on the part of the agents and probably a lot of hasty exits under guard from duty stations. 
Finally I would like to point out that the polite reception Mr. Agee received by the politically mixed audience is in stark contrast to the occasion of Pres­ident Bush's visit last year, when cer­tain liberals in the audience couldn't resist disrupting the event by heckling the speaker. This wasn't a bad recep­tion for a man who, for all his paranoid tales of who is against him, sounds like a leftist version of Lyndon Larouche. 

Todd V. Graves Off-campus March 16, 1989 
Expression of ideas enables freedom 
Dear Editor: 

We feel that the attitudes reflected in Mr. Murray's letter of March 1 are potentially dangerous to the academic integrity of the University. Few among our intellectual and spiritual commu­nity would argue the need for diversity at Notre Dame. Sincere differences, however, lie in the means to accomplish this fundamental goal. In an attempt to reconcile the obvious polarization of opinion concerning Common Sense, we question two of Mr. Murray's premises. First, what exactly is a "good type of diversity?" And second, what are the relevant implications of "limits of tolerance?'' 
Mr. Murray, and perhaps many among us, must realize that diversity, like anything worthwhile, comes at a substantial price. That price is the opening of one's self to ideas which challenge one's intellectual, religious, and social presuppositions. Indeed, we cannot allow any of these areas to be immune to questioning. What someone like Mr. Murray might consider the blasphemy of the sacred, another could easily view as a legitimate criticism of the Church authority. The very "spirit" of Vatic an II recognizes the inherent value in and necessity of dissent, whenever disagreements among the Christian community emerge. If the terms "Catholic" and "university~• are not to be rendered mutually exclusive, we must embrace the vision that, in the words of Father Malloy, "The mind can be a valid route to God." If Mr. Mur­ray's search for "good diversity" is to possess both meaning and honesty, it must promote a completely free and entirely open dialogue--one that is not afraid to address even those questions 
that some may find religiously offen­sive. Anything less is not worth $15,000 per vear. 
If this university is to maintain any semblance of academic integrity, it remains obliged never to restrict the free expression of ideas. In the same way that the writers of Common Sense are free to write upon whatever issues they may deem important, persons like Mr. Murray are free not to read such material if they find it offensive. When one makes any attempt to limit expres­sion, he inevitably invites the abuses which belong to such autocratic en­deavors, namely creative repression and conformity to some arbitrarily con­ceived rule. If we allow the implemen­tation of the "limits" Mr. Murray speaks of, then we are stepping back­ward in time to the religious persecu­tion of Thomas Jefferson's era when persons risked ''three years imprisonment for not comprehending the mysteries of the Trinity." If such thinking appears "progressive" to Mr. Murray and those like-minded, then we plead guilty. 
Matthew Henderson Grace Hall Kenneth Fischer Stanford Hall March 3, 1989 

Parents appreciate ND support 
Dear Editor: 
On Jan. 17, our daughter, Mary Har­less, and two other students were in­volved in a very serious automobile ac­cident near Pittsburgh. 
After the accident, we were over­whelmed by the response received from the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's commu­nity. 
From that very first night, in the in­tensive care unit, we were continually provided with an incredible support system. It was comprised of parents, students, factdty, and members of the administration. There was never a time that we did not experience some ex­pression of concern, or an offer of help. 
Sister Frances, of Westmoreland Hospital, said that she believed Mary's rapid recovery was due in large mea­sure to the wonderful support she received from all of you. 
We do too, and we are so grateful. 
Mr. and Mrs. W. Harless Naperville, Illinois Feb. 28, 1989 
St. Mary's negates religious debate 
Dear Editor: 
On March 15, Terry Martin gave a 
lecture  at  Saint  Mary's  entitled  
''Honoring Other Religions:  the Why  
and How of Dialogue."  

Thinking, for some reason, that this lecture might present a unique oppor­tunity to encourage a Muslim-Christian dialogue at Notre Darnel Saint Mary's, I began passing out leaflets extending to the theologians of Saint Mary's the challenge to a public debate on the Doctrine of the "resurrection of the dead" and the scriptural basis of Mohammed's authority for the Revela­tions he received. 
I had distributed only about 10 to 15 leaflets, however, when an official of Saint Mary's informed me that I would not be permitted to distribute such in­formation on campus. So much for "Honoring Other Religions ..."and the "How of Dialogue.'' 
Admittedly, Saint Mary's has the le­gal right to restrict the information which is distributed on its premises. But what the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's should understand is that, in the real world which exists beyond the university community, Is­lam is a religion of approximately 1 billion adherents, who are not simply . going to go away because Christians choose to ignore them. By artificially suppressing any serious, official dis­cussion of the religion of Islam--the theologians at Notre Dame have already ignored the challenge to debate this doctrine for 11 years--Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are simply not fulfill­ing their responsibility to educate their students to the reality of living in the modern world. 
As high as the tuition is for students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, one would think that they deserve as much 
information, and from as many differ­ent perspectives, as possible. 
Michael Cecil Islamic Society of Michiana March 16, 1989 
Doonesbury 
AN[) UP 7HCR&, I WANTABOUT 
50 GR£el< 6aJs.' ANPA 81.1/10-1 
QC SWANS! IN 7H& MICHt/..4}1;ft0 



OC4Y, I THINK I FINAUY GeT IT, MR.. TIW!r1Pl )f)(J'/?e taJI<ING FOR NCO-aASSICAL. K/7501, AKJNPOF 

HA,HA... HCH... 
Garry Trudeau 
NO, I'M JU5T

ORGOOP 
PAYING FOR IT.

TA'3T&! YOU'Re 
ANVI PlANT

COMMI3NTIN6 
IT BY MONJJAY! 

Quote of the Day 
'I arise today, God's power for my pilot, God's might for my understanding.' 
-St. Patrick 
Editorial Board Operations Board

=Ihe= 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 Editor-in-Chief .................................... Chris Donnelly Business Manager .........•..................... Rich Iannelli Managing Editor .................................. Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .....••....................... Molly Killen Exec. News Editor ......•............... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Design Manager ......... Shaonon Roach Viewpoint Editor ..........•......................... Dave Bruner Production Manager ............................ Alison Cocks 
The Obsefv8f is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Sports Editor ....................................... Theresa Kelly Systems Manager .•............................ Ma!X Derwent 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies or 
Accent Editor •..........•...•.......... : ................ John Blasi OTS Director ................................... Angela Benanca 
the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Photo Editor ............................................. Eric Bailey
possible .. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column 
space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying 

Founded November 3,1966 
opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

.. .. ' ..... ' .. .. . ' ,, ... ' ... ~ .. . .. ,. ' . . .. . ·' ... ., ' .. .. .. .. . . 
.; 




'i 

fri.
MOVIES 
"Nightmare on Elm Street IV" 
l':'ngineering Auditorium, 8, 10:15 p.m. 
"Wedding in Galilee" 
Annenburg Auditorium, 7:30, 9:45p.m. 
MUSIC Glee Club 
St. Patrick's Day concert at Stepan Center, 7:30 p.m. 
Irish Block Party 
Performances by Tom Dahill and Dave Glynn, ·Fieldhouse Mall, 6 p.m. to midnight 

sat.
MOVIES 
"Betrayed" 
Engineering Auditorium, 8, and 10:15 p.m. 
MUSIC "NAZZ" 
Student Talent Competition, Stepan Center, 9 p.m. 
Judy Gorman-Jacobs 

~ singerI songwriter will perform in concert at i the Moreau Hall Little Theater at S.M.C., 9 p.m. 
'I 
.[ 
FEATURES 

~ Fashion Show 
Black Cultural Arts Festival fashion show, Century Center Hall B in South Bend, 8 p.m. Tickets are $5.

l 
l Calvin and Hobbes 
! 
LOOK, "aBBES! D~O 
F\Xt.D M'i BEAA\E.! 
!!
• 
,;u 
c
... 
"' 
:
a: . = 
t
-. 
c 
i ;:) \i} 
I'll\ T\lRN\~G rr ON. R~O~~ ~tR£ GJ:iC.. s. 

was ··positive for two reasons. First, we began to win. Secondly, the Irishmen took it on as a battle cry and others around the country began to follow Notre Dame." This new following developed into the "underground" alumni. These were people who could not afford to attend the University themselves, but became Notre Dame sup­porters and would eventually send their children here. 
This particular version was related to a radio sportscaster by Colonel Frank Fehr who was a member of that special team in 1889. He had been a member since first team in 1887. The Northwestern game was only the second game Notre Dame had won and they never even had a coach. 
When the team was first starting out, they did not even know the rules of the game. Their first game was played against Michigan in 1887 and Michigan taught them the rules as the game progressed. So, with no coaching and only a three-year-old team, Notre Dame defeated Northwestern and went on to be consistent winners in football. 
Gradually the "Fighting Irish" came together with 
JANICE O'LEARY accent writer 


hen you hear the name "Fighting Irish'' the first things that come to mind are 
usually football greats such as Knute Rockne, George Gipp and the Four Horsemen. But how did Notre Dame recieve its nickname, when the founders of the university and the name itself were French? 
It all began 100 years ago in 1889, when the three-year­old Notre Dame team played Northwestern University. Losing 5-0, the Wildcat fans began the chant "Kill the fighting Irish! '' Being Catho­lic, Notre Dame attracted many Irish students, and at the time the Irish had a reputation for being rowdy, dirty drunkards. 
The 1889 team went on to win the game 9-0 and finished the season undefeated, the Northwestern game being the only one played. As a result, the term "Fighting Irish," originally meant to be derogatory, soon became a battle cry. 
According to Jethrow Kyles, curator of the Joyce Sports Reseach Collection, the win 
ND junior in Chicago parade 
Bill Watterson 
ROBYN SIMMONS 
assistant accent editor
~£c:nvE.s 
FA\l ME. 


bile most of Notre Dame's students will be celebrating St. Patrick's Day under the dome, junior Mary 
O'Neil will take part in the 
festivities of the Windy City. 
O'Neil is one of five members 
of the queen's court who will 
appear in Chicago's 34th an­
nual St. Patrick's Day Parade 
today at 1:30 p.m. EST. 
O'Neil, who hails from sub­urban Oak Brook, Illinois, was elected for the court last month out of 250 finalists. A panel of well-known Chicagoans judged the contes­tants after·asking them a se­ries of questions. "You really have to look 'Irishy' ," said O'Neil, "Of course, going to Notre Dame helps a lot. They try to decide who would be a good representative of the Irish community in Chicago." 
The court's activities for today will include a Mass at St. Patrick's Church in Chicago, followed by a brunch at the Hyatt hotel with Mayor Eugene Sawyer and other local politicians. The parade, which begins at Dearborn and Wacker Drive, will follow the brunch. 
"I'm not sure if we're on a float or a car,'' admits O'Neil. "I'm just looking for­ward to meeting lots of people ... It should be pretty fun. I'm excited about it. I've lived in Chicago all of my life, and I remember growing their first coach, James Morison, in 1894, and they recieved national attention for the first ti_me in 1903 when Louis "Rid" Salmon was named to the All-American team. Notre Dame was again in the athletic spotlight in 1912 when Gus Dorais was also named All-American. 
Of course, the Fighting Irish really gained their fame beginning with Knute Rockne. He began his years as a player at Notre Dame in 1910 and was named All-American in 1913. In 1917 he began his 13-year stint as coach of the IriSh. Under his tutelage, Notre Dame won six national championships and stole the hearts of many Americans. 
George Gipp and the Four Horsemen CStuhldreher, Mil­ler, Layden and Crowley), all coached by Rockne, also con­tributed to the Notre Dame success story in the 1920's. 
Although the nickname was not officially adopted until 1927, it stuck and was used over other names such as the "Catholics." 
Today, the legend lives on as the 1988 Fighting Irish team, led by Coach Lou Holtz 
-won the National Champion­ship title in the true Rockne tradition. 
up (that) St. Patrick's Day was the only day my parents would let me cut class and go down and see the parade. It's like a giant party down there." 
All of the members of the queen's court receive prizes, but only the queen wins a trip to Ireland. According to O'Neil, the queen of the St. Patrick's Day parade is usually someone who has been on the court in previous years. "I'd love to get on the court again. It'd be great to be queen," she said. 
''The real reason why I (competed) is I like the parade and also the trip to Ireland. I'd love to take my dad to Ireland, because he's been putting so many kids through college. He hasn't 

................................______________________________________ 


Mary O'Neil will appear in the queen's court in Chicago's St. Patrick's Day parade. 
been able to go over to Ireland and he'd really like to do that," O'Neil said. "It didn't work out this year, but I'll have fun at the parade and I'll try again next year." 
St. Patty's Day guide to off-campus 
DOUG RADTKE accent writer 


ince you are reading today's Ac­
cent page, you 
have obviously not 
begun truly 

celebrating your assumed Irish heritage for the St. Patrick's Day holiday. Do not fret, there is still plenty of time left in the day to ensure that it will be enjoyed to its fullest. To ease your worries about what to do, I have done my work and put together a short list of off -campus es­tablishments which promise to be worthwhile locales for your St. Patrick's Day adven­tures. 
If you have been in the dark studying since you returned from Spring Break, then you may be unaware that both Bridget's and The Commons opened their doors this morning at 7. Bridget's is promoting what they call "Wake and Bake," but be­ware, this is not a promise that solid food will be served. Besides the rumored break­fast being cooked up, The Commons has no other spe­cial plans beyond their normal service. 
If you were thinking more along the lines of a true Irish meal, several local establish­ments are serving corned beef, cabbage and Irish stew. Macri's Deli has a special price of only $1.99 for this meal. They are also giving away St.Patrick's Day!ND Football National Champion­ship mugs with the purchase of a 17-ounce drink, alcoholic or not. Lastly, they promise a free meal to the customer 
who is most appropriately 
garbed for the holiday. 
The big hype at Uncle's 
Irish Pub is the Notre Dame 
basketball game. It will be 
shown alongside the IU game 
on a large-screen television. 
A DJ will be spinning records 
after 4 p.m., and many 
souvenirs and favors will be 
distributed throughout the 
evening as well. To promote 
responsible driving, all non­
drinking drivers will be pro­
vided with free soda. 
Today is the second an­niversary of the Center Street Blues Cafe's opening. Patty's Racket, an Irish folk band with David James as lead vocalist, starts their set at 9:30p.m. Cover is only $4, but entry is free should you join them for dinner. Various Irish drinks will go on special at different times during the course of the night. 

A student band is playing at Senor Kelly's in the early evening. So if you desire to start off in a more civil manner, you can enjoy real Irish music, traditional ' Irish food and green beer while sitting in a comfortable _,, atmosphere. 
The HPC will be sponsoring the Buzz Bus as usual this evening. It will follow its nor­mal schedule. If you do plan to spend your time at one of the stops along the Buzz Bus route, I would highly recom­mend that you entrust your life on the roads to them tonight. Please be careful if you do choose to drive your­self, and enjoy your St. Patrick's Day (and night). 

and on-campus festivities 
JANICE ARCHER accent writer 

ne would expect plenty of St. Patrick's Day events at a uni­versity whose 
nickname is "The Fighting Irish." Certainly, with Friday's schedule of activi­ties, no one will be disap­pointed. There will surely be something for everyone. 
A major event sponsored by the Student Union Board will take place from 7 p.m. to 1 am. at the Fieldhouse Mall. Just look for the giant green and yellow tent. In addition to other activities, there will be two musicians, Dave Glynn and Tom Dahill, performing old fashioned, rowdy Irish music. 

The spirit will be "like that of the block party at the Fiesta Bowl," says Mike Hough of SUB. There will be room for dancing, and the tent will be open so that people can come and go as they wish. University Food Services is providing conces­sion stands for refreshments, and free Irish soda bread will be given out. Food Services also plans a pancake dinner at midnight in the Oak Room. With dancing, refreshments and Irish music, SUB hopes to create the atmosphere of an old Irish pub under the tent. 
The Glee Club is also get­ting into the St. Patrick's Day spirit by giving a concert at Stepan Center at. 7:30. p.m. However, this concert is not only for celebrating. The Glee Club will bring attention to the fact that not all Irish will be joyous on this special holiday. The concert is a benefit for the Irish Children's Fund for the bet­terment of children of war-torn Northern Ireland. The Fund provides relief to the children of Northern Ireland who are victimized by social and political unrest by paying to bring them to America for several weeks to remove them temporarily from their stressful situation at home. 
The religious aspects of the feast day will also be cele­brated with a Mass in Sacred Heart Church at 5 p.m. Bis­hop John D'Arcy of the Fort Wayne-South Bend Diocese will be the presiding cele­brant, and the Notre D~me Folk Choir will provide a complete program of Irish liturgical music. 
During Mass, a collection will be taken up for the North Wall Women's Center. This agency, located in the dock­side area of Dublin, provides support services to unwed mothers and impoverished expectant women. The total amount of money collected will be matched by funds from the American Ireland Fund of Boston. 
There are many opportuni­ties on campus to enjoy whatever aspect of St. Patrick's Day you wish to celebrate. So take advantal!P. of them al)d have fun! 


e 
-~-~--­

page 12 etc. Friday, March 17, 1989 
The Jews on the Right Hand of Jesus 

who come bearing gifts? 
You don't have to join the Church to be a follower of Jesus. Simone Weil, born in 1909 to an agnostic, well-to-do Parisian family of Jews, was passionately in love with Jesus. She saw the Cross as the central element in Christi­anity: God's embrace of our vulnerability, God's victory over pride. 
Weil died of anorexia in 1943. Though she had escaped to America with her family, she insisted on keeping her food intake at the level of that available to the people of German-occupied France. She labored hard in the vineyard of Faith, in eager pursuit of Jesus Christ, because she wanted to build a world in which Christ's teachings were laws, burned into the heart of everyone. 
Like Simone Weil, Edith Stein was also a brilliant Jewish-born student of philos­ophy drawn to Catholicism. She came into the Church after reading the autobiogra­phy of St. Teresa of Avila. In early 1933, Hitler took power in Germany, and Edith Stein (in Nazi eyes still a Jew) could no longer teach school. She felt free at last to apply for admission to the Car­melite order. 
By late 1938, Stein's life was in distinct jeopardy. She went to a Carmelite commu­nity in Holland, where she was seized by the Nazis in 1942, and sent to Auschwitz, where she was gassed a week later. Now she's an official saint of the Church, remind­ing us that Christ was a Jew, and so were His disciples. 
Why am I telling you these case histories? So that you can see how God's Spirit touches lives in unpredictable ways. Edith was not the only one of her family who was murdered in the Holocaust. Her brother, her sister and a sister-in-law, as well as a niece, were also slaughtered. 
Stein's niece, Susanne Batzdorf also tells us, "In fol­lowing her conscience on the road to Christianity, Edith felt she was pursuing her Jewish path to its ultimate goal. But it is impossible, from the Jewish perspective, to see it that way. For Jews, the Christian faith is not the natural culmination of Judaism, but another path, another truth. We cannot ac­cept the thesis that 'the Old Covenant is fulfilled in the New.' 
"And thus a Jew who turns to Catholicism, in our view, is no longer a Jew. By his or her choice, that person has em­barked on a spiritual journey that is no less valid to him but that cannot be seen by us as a further or higher com­munication on the same path. Edith Stein tells us that by becoming a Catholic she felt truly Jewish for the first time in her life, but to her Jewish family it appeared that she had left the fold." 
A Jew for Jesus, claiming that "the Old Covenant is ful­filled in the New," may be a very dear soul ; but in the end, all he is in touch with is the mystery of his own life, hidden in God, who hides His universal will from us all. Did not Christ say, "I have other sheep who are not of this fold," and "In my Father's house, there are many man­sions"? 
Remembering the covenant made with Abraham and his descendants forever, will God 
refuse mercy to those who have loved His chosen people? If it were otherwise, the patriarchs would weep with shame, and the Psalmist would stop praising God who gave joy to his youth. 
But grace is everywhere. That's why the armies liberating the concentration camps could pray, instead of weeping as though they were discovering the grave of the Old Testament God. 
Grace is everywhere, no matter how often they keep nailing Christ to the Cross, in Christ's own name. If we didn't know it before, we know it at Easter. When the meek _inherit the earth, every­thing will be Easter, even the concentration camps over which the G .I.'s grieved; and grace will be visible, like the reflection of God's face filled with love and peace. 
Happy Easter! Darby and I never said we didn't love you. 
P 
erry Miller was a Har­vard scholar who special­ized in America's early Puritan culture. His students remember his telling them over and over about his expe­rience of military service in WWII: 
''I was one of the first to arrive at the concentration camp. To my last day on earth I'll remember the scene ... A soldier next to me said, 'I can't believe any God would tolerate this.' I nodded, 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 

blood was shed for me," as part of the altar call, after the victims were invited to accept Jesus as their personal Saviour? Would they have been sensitive enough to ap­preciate a young Jewish wo­
man's reaction to seeing the cross? She said, "The cross 
makes me shudder. It is like an evil presence." 
Why did the woman see fear and evil in the symbol of love and redemption? Her view was colored by centuries 
and then I thought of the Crucifixion. I was going to remind the fellow that Jesus had gone through a horrible death, too. But somehow I couldn't say a word. It seemed obscene to compare anything, even the holy mo­ment of Christianity, to this nightmare, this hell we had stumbled onto. Then another soldier ... got down on his knees and began praying. He had his rosary beads in his hands. His gesture broke the ice for all of us. Others got down and prayed with him. Some of us stood with our heads bowed." 
If any of the Jews for Jesus had entered the camp with the liberation army, would they have sung, "Just as I am without one plea! But that thy of suffering by Jews at the hands of Christians. Pogroms, inquisitions, forced conver­sions and crusades brought death and destruction to countless thousands of Jews. The anti-Jewish action in Ger­many was able to build on a pre-existing foundation of Ch­ristian anti-Semitism that was often passed down from the pulpit. 

There's no use trying to hang a dead albatross around the necks of the Jews for Jesus, who will indignantly protest that the track record for anti-Semitism which can be attributed to the main­stream churches is not their track record. But don't the Jews for Jesus have a few sins of their own which earn them the distrust of traditional Jews, fearful of Christians 
IE N CG lJN IEIE !tfUN·CG JPILAN All'JJEAliJ) ENGINEERING GRADUATE SCHOOL A Short Presentation. followed by a DR. MARLEYQuestions & Answer Session TUES. MARCH 7:00 P.M. Sponsored byRoom 356, Fitzpatrick Office of Engineering Research and Graduate Studies College of Engineering University of Notre Dame  

. ·,', 

Friday, March 17, 1989 The Observer page 13 
•

Spirit of Louisville might not race 1n '89 Indy 500 
Associated Press consider that it would be a fac­driving. car with this person driving," again on Feb. 6, 1988, after 
tor." It had been announced ear­Abramson said. police observed him weaving 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. Scott E. Harrington, 25, of lier this week that the car, The mayor said he still sup­and driving at a high rate of Louisville businessman Gene Jeffersonville, Ind., said he saw owned by Gene Harrington, ports the concept of placing a speed.Harrington said disclosures no need to tell officials of his would attempt to qualify for the Louisville-sponsored car at the He also has been convicted about his son's drunken­arrests, which were reported 500 with the city as its major Indianapolis 500, citing the of speeding twice, found guilty driving record would probably first by WLKY-TV wednesday sponsor. All the money would marketing value of showcasing of reckless driving, and his ex­kill plans to race the Spirit of night. come from private sources. the city "before the largest gat­cessive speed was cited as a Louisville race car in the In­"I'm a human being, and It was even reported that hering of humanity in the contributing factor in a seven­dianapolis 500, a project the human beings make mistakes Abramson would be in the pits world." car accident in November 1987 city had planned to sponsor. · and I made a mistake," he as the car's official timer if it Two people in a car that Scott in Louisville. Two people in­
Mayor Jerry Abramson said said. qualified for the May 28 race. Harrington struck while jured in that wreck sued Scott 
the city would not sponsor the Abramson announced Wed­Abramson said Wednesday driving drunk in September Harrington and the case was car in the race unless another nesday that the city would not he did not know of Scott Har­1984 were seriously injured, recently settled out of court. driver was found. sponsor the car after it was dis­rington's convictions for DUI with one suffering permanent Asked if the city should have 
Harrington said neither he closed that Scott Harrington, when he agreed to support the brain damage, court records explored Scott Harrington's nor his son disclosed the DUI the scheduled driver, had a venture. show. Litigation stemming record before endorsing the convictions to team organizers record that included two "With his type of background from the accident was settled project Phil Lynch said it because the younger Har­drunken-driving convictions . . . we could not in any way, out of court for more than $1 never occurred to him to check rington had given up drinking and other traffic violations, in­form or fashion support the million. because no city money was 10 years ago. "We did not even cluding speeding and reckless Spirit of Louisville as a race He was convicted of DUI being committed to the project. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is
Classifieds 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
ATTENTION-HIRING! Government COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: Out­Therese Walker JUST SAY NO TOE-VILLE
SNOOZE AND KT

NOTICES I Jobs-your area. $17,840-$69,485. Call standing brothenlster sports camps COME SEE US 1 )Between the snow and rain, 2 in. ot
GOOD LUCK IN DORM ELECTIONS! 1-602-838-8885, EXT R-6262. on largest lake In New England near OR DIE DORM BUNNIES slime lell. 2) Crank the heat--kill the heal "ON GOLDEN POND" site seek staff. Your Observer Friends 3) Oh, my God, travel Othello. 4) No,
LOVE,TER
NEED RIDE TO PHILLY, DC, OR NY

TYPING AVAILABLE ALL TRAVEL PAID. Call Collect: you're ALL going to the mall. Only 1&11.? 287-4082 AREAS FOR EASTER. WILL HELP Roblndel. (girls) 215-884-3326, hrs. --power shop' 5) Guys, it's a spot'WITH DOLLARS Wlnaukee (boys) 203-227-4387 or see Anyone DRIVING to ST. LOUIS for II I could have drawn it different! I would
hi billy jackoboice CALL TASHA X4072 us on Thurs., Mar. 30, 10:30 AM-2PM Easter?? If so, I need a ride and will thanks for everything love ,me have. 6) Ice again? Frustration-Barb's NEED MONEY? Sell your teKtbooks for at LaFortune. share in the eKpenses. Please call Julie sleeping alone. 7) Marie Liddy-Poison CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash NEED BABYSITTER ON SATURDAYS at 2108. Groupie. 8) ROTC garage-why didn't or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK FOR 15 MO. OLD. TRANSPORTATION Ramada Inn of Elkhart has rooms for HEY HEY HEY HEY HEY HEY HEY HEY they just hang a sign, 'Welcome toHel!"? 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. PROVIDED. PLEASE CALL 271-8564. Graduation weekend. Minimum stay 2 K.S.--Six and counting Happy St. Patty's 9) There's bug under my ham.-l's
BEEKER a Ave.(walking distance from campusl ph. nights with $100 deposit per room. Day!!! your kiwi.--But Ws moving.--'You prob­
HAPPY BIRTHDAY 233-2342 RIDE DESPERATELY NEEDED TO PIT­Send letter to 3011 Belvedere Rd., DOG ably ate yours. 10) Mia, it's cute how you TSBURGH EASTER WEEKEND. WILL Elkhart, IN 46514 or Call219-262-1581. CLASS OF 1991!! rhyme. EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL PAY EXPENSES, HELP WITH VOTE ROMANELLI D-0-R-K MRS. COKER, 233-7009. DRIVING. THANKS!! LAURA 4948. FAEHNER mono! 11) That hick coach looks like
Start St. Pat's Day at SENIOR BAR DEADHORSE FANS: The Horse rides FRIDAY LUNCH NOON-2:00 at midnight, Sat. at Stepan Center.
PERKINS Steve. t 2) Jauust laike we drawd id uup, TYPING term papers-teport&' let­I NEED A RIDE FOR EASTER TO PHIL· BUTKOVICH ROCK AND ROLL !! Beeleenda. 13) Musty got a swirlie .-Look! ter&Tesumes. Pick up & delivery avail­LY, NJ, OR NYC!! WILL HELP WITH ALL BE A GOOD EGG FOR JUNIOR CLASS OFFICE It's oink oink! 14) It's amazing what you 
able. 277-5134 10am-8pm. EXPENSES AND DRIVING-CALL 
can do by 12 when you're up at 5. 15) X40481! 
and help us get home to 
ST. LOUIS prayer to st jude st jude, glorious apostle, Sorry, no quotes from 501. FOR EASTER. Call Pete X2459 or Laura MEN OF ALUMNI HALL: faithful servant and friend of jesus, the X3948 the weakened spirit of our dorm will rise name of the traitor has caused you to be TOP 1 0 FROM RM 11 O.PARTY 
again this weekend... forgotten by many, but the true church CENTRAL DAYTONA BEACH
I LOST/FOUND I 
FOR SALE Help!!' I need a ride to Pittsburgh (PA IRISH WAKE--BE THERE invokes you universally as the patron of 10.Chicks dig "BIG P R'S" 9.He's 
Turnpike 6) on 3-29 or 3-30. VERY im­things despaired o pray for me who am intelligent AND personable? 8.Because LOST-BLACK CUMMERBUND AT TAl­
portant!! Will help with gas and toll. Mike so miserable; pray for me, that finally i I LIKE Shell World 7.Say hey, hey we MILITARY FORMAL'! call BRET x1389 4141 O.K., It's St. Pat's Day, but did you know may receive the consolations and the want some· 6.Can we turn the strobe NEED A CAR? '82 Subaru, 107K,Decent it's ALSO Joe "Chick Magnet" Mindock's succor of heaven in all my necess1t ies on? 5.Ya snooze, ya lose 4.You name LOST:CLADDAGH RING from Ireland. 
shape, $925 or reasonable offer. Inquire ATTENTION STANFORD FRESHMAN: Birthday? Call him at X1211 to wish him particularly the request i make to you it, we got it 3.Awesome dagueries, you GREAT sentimental value to me. 11th at 283 3554 Get your dates now for the Post St. the best! We love you, Joe!! the Srnc­now and that i may bles god with elect should be a bartender 2.RALL Y 1.Sieep floor LIBRARY Wed eve.31. 11 pm: Patnck's Day Party Sat., March 1B from women throughout eterntty amen is for the weak!! Thanks girls for an 
PLEASE contact Terry at X40t0 or drop 
9p.m.-2a.m., and prepare yourselves for awesome week. Love, the guys-SW JB in mail to 718 Grace. 
this weekend's biggest bash! GET YOUR EASTER BASKETS You've seen John Wayne in PF PR
TICKETS AT "THE QUIET MAN", now seeILOST: VCR TAPES. Monty Python's 
FOR SALE: 2 round trip tics to OR­THE COUNTRY HARVESTER JOHN DICE AS "THE UGLY MAN" Holy Grell, The Running Man, Strange 
LANDO. Leave SB 3:45 pm Tues,Mar MON-FRI, 12:0G-5:30 VOTE DICE FOR 1989 UMOC BARBARA SAIN Br-, and others. If found, please call HEY ! NEED ONE EXTRA GRADUA­
21. Return 1:11 pm Mon, Mar 27. LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER Mark at 283-1409 or return tapes to TION TICKET!! WILL PAY, CALL PAUL HAPPY ST. PATRICK'S DAY!!
CHEAP' Call Jen x3688. Room 912 Flenner Hall. No questions AT X-1414 ' 
Come see AFTER HOURS rock Stepanasked. R-ard. Are you a graduating FEMALE planning Dear Admirer, Center during The Nazz tomorrow night better yet ... 
to work in ST. LOUIS? I really need you Have you introduced yourself at 10 o'clock! LOST: Piece of maroon luggage with as a ROOMMATE! Call Brenda at 4271 yet? What exactly does this dreamgirl HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! gray piping (Leisure) carryon bag. look like?
or 239-6580 leave message LISA "PENELOPE" NAPOLI-is20call her Lost Sunday AM at Campusvlew Apts. An interested party From the man of cards on
and wish her a greatparking lot. Call 272-9903. the 11th floor. 
I PERSONALS I 

GATHER AGAINST APARTHEID weekend! 
TODAY'! 12:15 PM at DOME STEPS We love you!-The 4-south GangLOST at LyonS'Oillon Formal. Grey CW--"You're so good to me" THE WAKE Tweed Men's Jacket. Call Christina 239-THE WAKE 7424. 
I NEED A RIDE TO WASHINGTON D.C. THE WAKE K.A.L. TO RICK'S ROOMMATE: THANKS OR VIRGINIA (CHARLOTTESVILLE) FOR MAKING JPW SO VERY SPECIAl. If you were given a black bow off a black hi ag Be there this Saturday when Alumni FOR US. WE LOVE YOU.
FOR EASTER BREAK. WILL SHARE You lrB the Four-Leaf Clover taffeta dress at the Dillon Formal at the $$$.CALL ROSI AT 3567. wakes its stale past and celebrates its MAW AND PAW
In my life

Elks Lodge on Feb. 25 it is mine. Please SUMMER JOBS rebirth as the Center of the Universe! 
'Cause you've made my life
call 284-5085 soon. ALL LANDWATER SPORTS SAINT MARY'S SOPHOMORE PAR­.o wonderful.
PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ENTS' WEEKEND'S proofs are up in the TO THOSE ON AND OFF THE JPW LOST: On Feb. 9 in Rolf's Aquatic Center, 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS game room at Haggar College Center. I'm going to explode JELLYASH LIST, THANKS FOR
HAPPY ST. PATRICK'S DAY Ill
women's locker room, in or around locker NEAR LAKE PLACID Hurry and check them out. SHARING NO AND YOUR PARENTS.
and

t89. White gold pinkie ring with CALL 1-800-343-8373 MAW. PAW
HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY !!!
aquamanne stone. Great sentimental value. Please cal Jennifer at 284-5113. HAPPY ST. PATRICK'S DAY TO ALL The Ice Cream Fag Is coming Love, LOVE, 
G.T.W.

ADOPTION-Caring, financially secure KEVIN and KELLY and AU YOUR LOST or stolen from S. Dining Hall on couple of Irish and Swedish ancestry FRIENDS,
AMY COPY CENTER
3'2--blue and tan backpack. Contains im­wish to love, cherish, and raise your new­DAVE JONES portant research for Anthro Dept. Call born child. Legal and confidential. Please Happy Birthday to the World's Biggest May God Always Hold You In ThePalm
Maria & Angela Welcome to NO! The
Chris at X3578 REWARD. call Linda and Craig COLLECT: 212-877-Teddy Bear!! -Your Roommates Of His Hand Cathy Stacy 
Stallion & I are looking foward to provid­3574 ing you with THE FLIGHT OF DELIGHT
Found: Set of keys near Rockne Mem. You don't know HAPPY ST. PATRICK'S DAY
!!!how lucky you are

Call 2485 to identify. SUMMER JOBS TO SAVE ENVIRON-Make this Easter most unique, when the CAPT. STEROID
MENT Easter Bunny hops down your street! per­
.......... KIMBERLY D.
LOST LOST LOST BUILDING STRUC­EARN $2500-3500. National campaign sonalized delivenes, 255-3355. & Fresh. STUD desperate to attend Sr. For­
THE SPOOGE STALLIONWishing you all the happiness In the
TURES TEXTBOOK GREY AND WHITE positions to paas clean air act, stop mal. Sr. chicks-if you have physi­world.
COVER HARDBOUND PLEASE CALL toxic pollution, tighten pesticide con­DEAR MS. DISK ERROR, Although I cal1nental abnormalities pre-venting you Today and always. Happy Birthday
TERRY X2706 I REALLY NEED THIS trols & promote comprehensive recy­am more than 1 bit flattered by your from asking someone look no further T1m BOOK!!! cling, available In 18 states & D.C. electronic media, I am afraid that fur­T.(break dancer extraordinaire)offers his
Heh Soppy and the NO women's
Call Kate at 1-800-622-2202. ther Interface with you would cause services. Call 4854 to enter your name 
I 
basketball team!!! Congrats on win­
HOPING TO ADOPT 
my girlfriend to think that I was rather in the lottery. The lucky girl will be chosen 
we·,.. a happily married, financially ning the MCC Tourney and getting 1 
SCSI, thereby causing a system error randomly Sa! night at Theodores. (equal
bid to the NITIIsecurB couple with a beautiful home

Scap!l! (Use it) between us. Joe oppertunity dater -b.s. 
FORRENT 

and lots of love to sharB with much­wanted baby. If you are pregnant and GOOD LUCK IN THE THRILLER
SCRUBS!! CALCUTTA RAIN
IN AMARIUOII

considering placing your baby for
HOUSE NEAR CAMPUS AVAILABLE SCRUBS!! Saturday-8:00-Nazz·Stepan
Your pal,adoption, please call us. We can help

FOR RENT UNTIL AUGUST. 232-3616. SCRUBS!! You're Gonna Get Wet
Mollyyou, and you can help us make our lives complete. Expenses paid. Con­Jade green tops and bottoms! Call Tam­

Furnished ROOM8-S120mo; 2 BDRM my, 284-5134 Yo Ski!! Happy St. Patrick's Day!!
fidential, legal. Call Deborah and
HOME-S280mo, 3 blocks from campus SKI PATROL!!! ACTOR needed lor short subject fil Must 
David collect day or night at 312935-Heh Philip John Kraker! Who needs
272-6306 *****SENIORS***.. be reliable and open to acting out per­CLASS MASS 
4088, or call our counselor collec1 at the Luck of the Irish when you're 
sonal situations. Call Bill x2990, Paularound? Not mel312-'280-8744.
SUN. MARCH 19 BABY. x1847 for meeting.
HAPPY ST. PATRICK'S DAYIII
Anyone wanting to rBnt 1 Turtle Creek ZAHM CHAPEL you ain't I need a nde to EVANSVILLE IN. for Love,
Apartment during the summer months 4PM seen nuthin' ACTRESS needed for short subject film.
Easter break. Will pay. Beth x4802 Molly
contact Lisa at If 4886. *****SENIORS***** Must be self-aware, uninhibited about ~rsonal subject maner. Acting experi­
yet! To the most beautiful girl of all the Irish­
In Z's honor, we are announcing a
GRAD STUDENTS, 3 BD. FURN. ence please. Call Bill x2990, Paul x1847
-CATHERINE O'LEARY--Happy St.
Z BALLS WEEK REPRIEVE.
HOUSE. CLOSE TO CAMPUS, SECUR­ADOPT: IUpplly married. professional to meet
LEADING EDGE Patrick's Day!..l Love You-JAB
So no Z Balls jokes today. Instead, call 3410 and tell Ted he's a 
ITY CONSCIOUS. CALL 289-8539. couple wishes to provide wonderful 
home, secure futurB, much love for CALCUTTA RAIN
LEADING EDGE GET READY. THE FISHER HALL
white newborn. Legal. Expenses paid. ween. And he sucks at Risk. Saturday-8:0G-Nazz-Stepan
REGATTA IS COMING SOON. IF YOU In a big way.
Call us collect 212-517-2696. 
You're Gonna Get WetLEADING EDGE WOULD LIKE TO COMPETE IN THIS

WANTED 

YEAR'S HOMEMADE BOAT RACETOP '0 THE MORNING LEADING EDGE CONTACT YOUR HALL PRES. SMC NO ROME SUMMER PAOGRAII
Dear: ETIENNE RAMOS-ESTEBAN HAPPY BIRTHDAY, TOO!!! Thank you for your constant FOR ALL COLLEGE STUO~NTS.. JUNE 
DONALD PATRICK 

CRUISESHIP JOBS and eager support. now my riches .0 
1WULY 17. TRAVEL IN PARIS, GER­
$300 TO $900 WEEKLY are beyond my dreams. 
COOL MANY, SWITZ. AND ITALY. COURSESCALL LINDA 9-5 WEEKDAYS t-612­456-0884 EXT. C-4080 
watch for my spring collection they're IN HIST.uoRY, AND LANGUAGE. BLUES BLUES BLUES.... SAT. 10:00 eternally grateful: HOTI MEETING APRIL 3 IN AOOIII Ml SENIOR BAR BIUY NICKS and the Ralph Lauren HOT! AN TOSTAL'89 GENERAL MEETING IIADELEVA. SLIDES, PIZZA ETC. FOR 
AlOE NEEOED to Na!lhville for Easter 
N's and OUTS BLUES..SAT..SENIOR HOT! NO LIBRARY AUDITORIUM MONDAY INFO CALL PROF. A. R. BLACK AT
Will share expenses CaH Christina 239­
BAR MARCH 20 9 p.m. .4 4410 OR 272-3721.
7424 
I? 
l 
I 
\ 

AP Photo The Philadelphia Flyers' Craig Berube and the to the wire. Pittsburgh defeated New Jersey 2·1 Pittsburgh Penguins' Richard Zemlak duke it out last night while Philadelphia fell to St. Louis, 4-3 as the Patrick Division playoff race comes down in CT. 
Johnson's doctor is accused 
Associated Press 
TORONTO -Ben Johnson's doctor may have given the sprinter, without his knowl­edge, the steroid that cost him an Olympic gold medal, sprinter Angella Issajenko sug­gested Thursday as a federal inquiry concluded three weeks of sensational testimony. 
Johnson's coach, Charlie Francis, had testified that his star sprinter was taking the steroid Estrogol in preparation for last fall's Seoul Olympics. 
Francis said he could not fig­ure out how another steroid, stanozolol, turned up in Johnson's urine test at Seoul since he had not taken the drug for more than a year. 
Issajenko suggested Johnson's personal physician, Dr. Jamie Astaphan, may be able to clear up the mystery. 
She said that she and Johnson 
! 
i
i 
! ~ :: '­
:: !
:
i 
: 

had thought they used Estrogol in training for the Olympic Games, where Johnson was stripped of a gold medal. 
"It was not until the inquiry was called that Jamie told me that the name was furazabol with a Japanese trade name of Miotolon," not Estrogol she said in response to questions from commissioner Charles Dubin. 
Miotolon is ''very similar in structure" to stanozolol, Steve Timmings, a supervisor with the Mann Testing Laboratory in suburban Mississauga, said in an interview. "I would suspect its properties would be 
similar.'' 

All are anabolic steroids, which are derivitives of the male hormone testosterone. 
The commission has a sample of the drug Francis 
says his athletes were taking enced with stanozolol. 
iiRISH BLOCK PARTY ~ i '¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥•~¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥·
.•
. 

·.=. fRIDAY • ~ 
*under the tent on "" .~~ ~ ~ Fieldhouse Mall i=-~ i *Irish musicians Dave Glynn i ­
: =~ 
: Tom Dahill will lead the : ~ 
~ party tunes : it: 
~ ~i~ 
*Come one and all from 6-12 p.m. ~ 
it 
! ie i=-it: =­
: iC
=­
·:­
~ : iC 
!ie 
before the Olympics, Robert Armstrong, senior commission counsel, said· outside the hearing. He refused to say whe­ther it has yet been analyzed. 
Johnson has denied he knowingly took banned drugs. 
Astaphan, yet to testify, has denied from his home in St. Kitts that he gave Johnson steroids. 
"Anything is possible," As­taphan's lawyer, Lorne Levine, said. "I think it's somewhat doubtful there could have been a mistake made by Dr. Astap­han or any of the athletes. This is an experienced physician." 
Issajenko said she first suspected in 1987 that the steroid Astaphan prescribed was not what he had said it was. She said it had side-effects particularly muscle stiffness similar to those she experi­
Friday, March 17, 1989 
. 

Women's Bookstore Basketball late registration and signups are Tuesday, March 21, from 6 to 8 p.m., in the lobby of Haggar Hall at Saint Mary's. Times and lo­cation will be announced. There is a $5 registration fee. Any questions should be directed to Nancy at x3487 or Julie at x2667. -The Observer 
The Rugby ClubwillopenitsseasonatnoonSaturday, March 18, against Santa Clara at Stepan Field. -The Ob­server 
The Squash Club will sponsor the Insilco tournament Monday through Wednesday, March 20-22, in the Joyce ACC. A $5 entry fee includes t-shirt. Registration ends Friday, March 17 in the NVA office. -The Observer 
A scuba diving class will be offered by NVA on Sunday afternoons from 3:30 to 7 p.m. beginning March 
19. More information and pre-registration will be at 6:30 
p.m. Thursday at room 218 of the Rock. -The Observer SMC Intramural Volleyball captains' meeting will be Tuesday, March 21, at 4 p.m., in the Angela Lounge. 
Divisions will be women's and co-ree. Games will be played Sunday through Thursday nights from 8 to 11 p.m. 
-The Observer 

The Water Polo Club will hold a mandatory meeting on Monday, March 20, at 7 p.m. in the Sorin Room at Lafortune. Plans will be discussed for the remainder of the spring and for next year's officers. For more infor­mation call Jay at 2303. -The Observer 
Season passesat Burke Memorial Golf Course are now available at $60 for students through fall orientation and $140 for staff ($190 family) through November 15. Call the golf shop at 239-6425 for more information. -The Ob­server 
Off-campus lacrosse practice will be Saturday, March 18, at 12:30 p.m. in Loftus. Games begin Sunday or Monday and players must have insurance forms in by 5 p.m., Friday, March 17. Call Bill at 287-5758 for more information. -The Observer 
The Volleyball Club will host "Indiana-Purdue at 
Fort Wayne Friday, March 17, in the Joyce ACC Pit. The 
game begins at 7:30p.m. and admission is free -The Ob­
server 

Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Cheer up · 
MaryAnn Cenedella on her 20th birthday Call 4362. 
Love, No. 1 fam. 

~ 
~fig_ l ~~n ~ 
(J.Vlfl/ """ 
it:-­
Presents: -­
ST. PAOL AND it: 
~ 
THE MARTYRS t 
ie Saturday Nite Don't miss -it: 
-
this great band! -­
~ 
iC
check personals for times ~ ~ 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• • ......................¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥ 

Friday, March 17, 1989 
Ingram faces charges brought by ex-agents 
Associated Press 
Both agents have pleaded in­

CHICAGO -Mark Ingram of nocent, saying they were "the 
the New York Giants was victims of athletes and univer­pressed by attorneys for sports sities hungry for money. Their agents Norby Walters and trial is in its second week Lloyd Bloom Thursday about before a federal court jury. 
why he was allowed to continue 
playing at Michigan State after Ingram, a wide receiver who thefts and a jail sentence for played at Michigan State from breaking into a dorm room. 1983 through 1987, testified that 
''Is it still your testimony he signed a contract with Wal­that the scho6l always followed ters and Bloom in 1986, before the rules very strictly?" his college eligibility had ex­demanded Bloom's attorney, pired, in violation of NCAA reg­Dan Webb, after Ingram tes­ulations. He said Walters told tified he·served 30 days in jail him he would postdate the con­but was allowed · to keep his tract to Jan. 2, 1987, telling In­football scholarship. . gram that "Michigan State 
Ingram's answer was lost as would always be there and I prosecutors voiced objections · need to look out for Mark In­to U.S. District Judge George gram.." Marovich. 
Walters and Bloom are on Ingram acknowledged that trial for ·fraud, extortion and ·he served the time for breaking racketeering .in what aut­and entering, 'but he said MSU horities say was a scheme to officials decided not to revoke defrau.d universities by s~gning his scholarship because they athletes· to contracts before felt the time in jail was puhish­their college eligibility had ex­ment enough. pired, in violation of NCAA But ~ebb pressed Ingram on rules. ' ' his· conduct at the university.. 

~s currently accepting applications for the · following position: 
News Editor 
· A resume and a two-page personal statement is due to Matt Gallagher by 3 p.m. on Tuesday, March 21. Call239-5303 or 283-1957 for information. 


Thition 
ScholarshipsFor Qualified 
ApQTicants. 
Rush Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical Center announces an expansion of the Nursing Services Scholarship Program. A cooperative program between the hospitals of the Medical Cemer and Rush University College of Nursing. 
If you are considering nursing as a career ... considcr Rush University. 
-Earn a B.S. in Nursing entering 
with 90 quarter hours 
(60 semester) scientific and 
liberal arts foundation. 
-Earn a B.S. in Nursing entering with an RN with 90 quarter hours (60 semester) scientific and liberal arts foundation. 
-Earn an M.S. in Nursing entering 
with a baccalaureate in a field 
other than nursing. 
For specific information rc~ardin~ this opportunity, call the College • Admission Services Office for 
advising or an appointment: 
942-7100. 

(i)RUSH UNIVERSITY 
119 Schweppe-Sprague Hall. 1743 W. H<u,·ison Street. Chicago. IL 60612 
The Observer 
AP Photo 

Akeem Olajuwon (34) and the Houston Rockets  phia  beat  New  York  121-112 and  Boston  tri­ 
defeated Milwaukee 120-1 04 last night in NBA  umphed over Indiana 114-99.  
action. ·In other games played last night, Philadel­ 

~ ~ w~ ~~~~~~~Clearwater 
HAPPY ST. PATRICK'S ; leads field 
DAY ~ in tourneyTO OUR N.D. IRISH! ~ 
Associated Press 

PONTE VERDE, Fla. -A consecutive bogey finish took
P~T R 
some of the glitter off a 65 but ' ~ left Keith Clearwater with a
• 
TIM ~ one-stroke, first-round lead LOVE, Thursday in the $1.35 million Players Championship. MOM, DEE, DAN, "It was almost fun," the low-MIKE AND MOLLIE key Clearwater native said 
' · after failing to get up and down
~~~~~oo~~oooooo~~OO~v 
(!J'i( rux (!fit. Cdit. ctfi< (tfic (!JX (!IX (!JX C!fi< (lfX (fJ'X from bunkers on his last two holes. 
Clearwater appeared poised to make a rout of this annual championship of golf's touring ~----~-:J~ ~~·~1 iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ professionals when he went nine under par for the day with 
~Chicago Hair Cutting Co.~ 
a birdie on his 16th hole only to 
~· . ·~ 
see his shot at course and tournament records wiped away with the closing bogeys. 
Clearwater, who went into a slump last year after scoring
MARCH 
two victories in his rookie season of 1987, was neither elated about his nine birdies
PERM SALE 
nor dejected about the bogeys. ''A good round like today comes because of good put­
S.U. Dales: March 1st through March 31sl 
ting," he said. "I've had prob­ably 15 rounds this year that have been just as good, but the 
so·

$ 
REG score didn't materialize be­'34.50 cause I wasn't rolling it. 
,· 

"That's why I'm trying to take
SAVE SS 

it all in stride. It's not like I'm ready to go out and shoot 62 every day," Clearwater said. 
!JmrsO@rfl@a Bruce Lietzke, Steve Pate and South African David Frost 
g;q@@/J[j/J~[jJ ($@(] ,(!} [j{j]@[jj)(j)@(f) 
had 66s in the near-ideal playing .conditions to leave
Mishawaka Indian Ridge Plaza 
them one stroke back. Ben
(Next to Venture) 
Crenshaw was at 67. Grape Rd. "When you're warming up, 277-7946 hitting balls and you see the 
flags not moving, you know you better make as much out of it
Hours: Daily 9-8 PROFESSIONAL 
as you can," Lietzke said. 
Sat. 9-6 Sun. 11-5 PERMS
ZOTOS 
"Under these conditions,

©Cclpyriglll Chlclogo Cut & p..., 1988 
birdies are the norm, pars don't help and bogeys drop you way, way back," Lietzke said. 

IJ 
r 
!; ~ page 16 The Observer Friday, March 17, 1989 
I' 

t 
\ 
~ 
i 
~ 
~ 
! I
' 
~ 
~ 
The Observer 1 Michael Moran as they look to continue their ascent up the col­legiate baseball poll. 
~ 
} 
~ 
~ 
~ 
.
.

~ ·­
Second baseman Mike Moshier (3) and the Notre Dame baseball team travel to Durham, N.C. this

1 
weekend to play Duke and North Carolina A& T 

I 
Hoops 
continued from page 20

l 
fouled driving the baseline with 

~ 
three seconds left and this time 

~ 
I he made both. Terry Taylor's 75-footer at the buzzer hit the backboard. 
"Siena played with a tremen­dous amount of emotion, a tre­mendous amount of poise," Stanford coach Mike Montgomery said. "We made some runs, but we never could sustain a run." 
In other games, No.1 Arizona beat Robert Morris 94-60, No.4 Oklahoma beat East Tennes­see State 72-71, No. 12 Louis­ville beat Arkansas-Little Rock 76-71, Minnesota beat Kansas State 86-78, Louisiana Tech 
Impress people 


Work for 
The 

f 
i 
I I 
I 
FRESH 
FLORIDA 
FISH FESTIVAL 


beat La Salle 83-74, Arkansas beat Loyola Marymount 120­101 and Clemson beat St. Mary's of California 83-70. 
At night, No. 3 Illinois beat McNeese State 77-71, No. 9 Duke beat South Carolina State 90-69, No. 15 Nevada-Las Vegas beat Idaho 68-56, No. 17 West Virginia beat Tennessee 84-68, No. 18 Ball State beat Pit­tsburgh 68-64, Virginia beat Providence 100-97 and DePaul beat Memphis State 66-63. 
Sixteen more first-round games will be played Friday. In East games at Providence, R.I., No. 19 North Carolina State plays South Carolina, No. 14 Iowa plays Rutgers, No. 2 
~~w~~~~~~ 
~ HAPPY ST. PATRICK'S DAY 
TO OUR ·. "IRISH TWINS," 
MAURA 

AND GEOff 
Love, Mom and Dad 
J. PHILIP CLARKE FAMILY LECTURE IN MEDICAL ETHICS 
"Clinical Medical Ethics: A Review of the First Decade" 
MARK SIEGLER, M.D., F.A.C.P. 
Director, Center for Clinical Medical Ethics University of Chicago -Pritzker School of Medicine 
Auditorium Center for Continuing Education Friday, March 17, 1989 4:15-5:30 p.m. 
Mark Siegler, M.D., F.AC.P., is professor of medicine, the University of Chicago. Dr. Siegler, director of the Center for Clinical Medical Ethics at the University of Chicago-Pritzker School of Medicine and fellow of the Hastings Center, has written numerous books and articles on ethical issues and serves as a consultant on ethical issues to the American College of Physicians, the American Hospital Association, and on occasion to the National Institute of Health. 
Georgetown plays Princeton and Vanderbilt plays Notre Dame. In the Southeast at At­lanta, No. 10 Michigan plays Xavier of Ohio, No. 20 Alabama plays South Alabama, No. 5 North Carolina plays Southern and UCLA plays Iowa State. 
In Midwest games at Dallas, No.7 Syracuse plays Bucknell, Florida plays Colorado State, No.6 Missouri plays Creighton and Georgia Tech plays Texas. In West games at Tucson, Ariz., Oregon State plays Evansville, No. 11 Seton Hall plays Southwest Missouri State, No. 8 Indiana plays George Mason and Texas-El Paso plays Louisiana State. 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 
Murphy knows that the team cannot suffer a letdown against other teams after victories over Miami and Texas earlier in the season, especially since every school would love to beat the Irish. Murphy would also add another factor to the op­ponent's minds. 
"I think we set the tone last year with our outstanding record," said the Irish coach, whose team finished 39-22 last year. ''Every team will be gun­ning for us not only because our our recent success or national ranking, but because everybody likes to beat Notre 
LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENn STOPPED DRINKING AIID DRIVING. 
Dame. It would make their seasons to beat us.'' 
The Irish are also watching injuries to two key senior pitchers that could prohibit them from playing. Both Mike Passilla and Erik Madsen are experiencing soreness and are both listed as day-to-day. 
Day-to-day solid perfor­mances is what Murphy is ex­pecting from his players. "I think the key is working to im­prove everyday,'' said the Murphy. "Baseball is a game meant to be played everyday. 
"One or two games do not make a season. We have to maintain our team identity which is a blue collar team that's very aggressive and goes out and plays." 
Happy irthday, Nicole 
rom: Sunny Southern California 


Friday, March 17, 1989 
Softball team prepares for first home opener 
By COLLEEN HENNESSEY Sports Writer 
T~e N?tre Dame women's varsity softball team will play 
a historical home opener today when it takes to the field 
in a double-header against Saint Mary's. The games, to 
be played at 3:30 p.m. on Alumni Field, will be the first 
home appearances for the Irish as a varsity team, a status 
achieved last spring. 
"Saint Mary's has always been a big game on the Notre 
Dame schedule," said Head Coach Brian Boulac. "It's a 
big rivalry. They've won the majority of games in the 
past, but we're looking to turn that around as a varsity 
team this year.'' · 
Notre Dame, coming into the game with a 4-4 record, 
is both confident and excited about the inaugural season. 
"This is a developmental year, a growing year," said 
Boulac, who is assisted by former club coach Joe 
Speybroeck. "We have to feel our way and put our best 
foot forward.'' 
Participation in a tournament over spring break in Evansville, IN, has helped the team to adjust to the transi­tion between club and varsity status, especially a 5-1 win over a tough Evanston team. 
"That win gave us a lot of confidence," said Boulac. 
"We really proved to them and to ourselves that we can 
play with them. We are definitely playing better than we 
expected to be at this point. 
"Right now we're just working on some fundamentals-­
batting, keeping the bunts down and fielding situations," 
said freshman pitcher Melissa Linn, who leads the team 
with a 4-1 record and a 2.36 ERA after 26 2'3 innings. "We 
just have to eliminate any mental errors. 
"We're just excited about the season. We've been prac­
ticing and conditioning since September arid we're just so 
ready for a game. People don't know what to expect from 
us as a first year team. We're really going to surprise 
them." 
The combination of freshman Laurie Summerlaud at 
second base and Ruth Karnak at shortstop is particularly 
noteworthy. 
"There's really something there," emphasized Linn. "Especially on double play situations, it's like they have played together before." 
Another player capable of making a real contribution both in the field and at the plate is Rachel Crossen, a sophomore transfer from Saint Mary's. Starting in center field, she is already batting .450 in the clean-up slot. 
"\Y~ are enthusiastic about building a winning softball tradition at Notre Dame," said Liddy. "There is noticeable improvement from game to game and if we continue to pro~ress a~d the chemistry is positive, we have the po­tential to wm a lot of ball games this spring." 


EAR VALLI (KAII) 
ffi illriD'V ~UJ~ illBJUJ[JJV illrt'CilJ~ 
(]crrst;J 
\JJ~ ~UJ~ ~rn 
Love, Mom, Dad, Ashok, Vairavan, Pat and Bill 


• top-seeded teams in Thursday
ATTENTION STUDENTS!! ATTENTION STUDENTS!! 
night's 200-yard medley relay. Stanford, led by Jenna
NOTRE DAME'S 

Johnson's butterfly split of 
24.02, posted a 1:42.57. Florida
DEVELOPMENT PHONE CENTER 
NOW HIRING FOR ~UMMER '89 
40-50 Student Positions Available Starting May 22 through August 18 $4.50 Per Hour Flexible evening hours: 6:00-10:30; Some daytime hours 
All interested are invited to an informal Open House1nformation Session at the Development Phone Center Sunday March 19, from 1:00pm-2:00pm PLEASE JOIN US 
For more information, call Carol McClory 239-7938 or Mike Brach 239-7241 
The Observer 
page 17 

Hoosier Hysteria hits JACC 
. South Bend Semi state features top Indiana hoopsters 
By GREG GUFFEY Assistant Sports Editor 
The Joyce ACC will be filled with 11,000 basketball fans Sat­urday, but Digger Phelps will have his squad in Providence, Rhode Island. 
Hoosier Hysteria hits Notre Dame in the form of the South Bend Semistate, featuring four of the top high school basket­ball teams in this basketball crazy state. The winner ad­vances to the sold-out Final Four in Indianapolis next weekend. 
The first game is being billed by many as the state champi­onship battle. No. 1 ranked and undefeated (25-0) Marion plays No.3 South Bend St. Joe's, 27-1 and ranked No.1 for a majority of the year. Tipoff is set for 11 
a.m. and the games are sold out. 
In the second contest, Elkhart Memorial ( 16-9) meets Fort Wayne Concordia (22-5). The championship is set for 8:15p.m. Saturday evening. 
For Marion, playing in the semi-state is no foreign experi­ence. The Giants have won 11 semistate titles and six state crowns in their illustrious hard court history. This will be Marion's 14th Sweet Sixteen 
Records fall at swimming prelims 
Associated Press The 1988 U.S. Olympian touched the wall with a time of INDIANAPOLIS -Leigh Ann 22.1 seconds, bettering the Fetter of Texas broke the mark of 22.13 set by Tammy 
American and NCAA record in Thomas of Kansas in 1983. 
the 50-yard freestyle Thursday The Texas sophomore also 
during preliminaries at the advanced into Thursday 
NCAA women's swimming and night's finals at the Indiana University Natatorium, where she will meet fellow Olympian Dana Torres of Florida. The two tied for first in last year's NCAA meet at 22.38. Finals in the 200 medley relay, 500 free, 200 individual medley, 800 freestyle relay and 1-meter diving were also sched­uled Thursday night. 
"I came into this meet and my goal was to break 22," Fet­ter said. "This morning we wanted to see if we could go for it right away. 
"There are a few things I can work on (for Thursday night). My coach told me it looked like my turn was a little bit tight." 
Florida, Stanford and Texas, 
expected to battle for the team 
championship, were also the 
appearance in the last 15 years. 
Marion is also gunnning for its fourth state title in the past five years. The Giants won three straight during the reign of now-Indiana catalysts Lyn­don Jones and Jay Edwards. 
Marion is led by senior guard David Anderson, who averages 
22.1 points and 5.9 rebounds per game. Anderson has nailed 70 three-pointers during the season. Junior center Jason McCain scores 15.8 points per game and has an 8.4 rebound­ing average. 
This is a new experience for St. Joe's, which has never com­peted in a semistate. The Indi­ans streaked to a 16-0 record and the No. 1 ranking in the state before losing 55-54 to Elkhart Concord. They now have an 11-game winning streak. 
The Indians are explosive at the guard positions. Senior Rodney Holmes averages 19.6 points, while senior teammate Darran Teamor scores at a 17.0 clip. Holmes has connected on 51 three-pointers during the season. 
Concordia is fortunate to be in the semistate. The Cadets rallied from a 15-point deficit against Fort Wayne North in the sectional opener to win 80­
77 and then went on to win the 
Fort Wayne regional. 
The Cadets average 75 points per game in an uptempo of­fense and scored 100 in the regional final. They have a balanced attack with guard Chris Hoeppner scoring 15 points a game and center Doug Reincke 14 points. 
Elkhart Memorial seems to be peaking at the right time. The Chargers were 11-9 during the regular season, but rolled through the Elkhart regional undefeated last weekend. 
Forward Ross Hales has been the spark for Memorial in the tourney. He scored 53 points in the regional and hit 24-of-29 shots. Senior Tim Johnson scores 13.7 points per game. 

Semistate action will be played at three other sites ·· around the state. 
At Indianapolis, Triton Central meets Lawrence North and Muncie South tangles with Connersville. In Evansville, Evansville Memorial meets Terre Haute South and Paoli plays Folyd Central. At Lafayette, East Chicago battles West Lafayette, while Kokomo plays Tipton. 
recorded an identical 1:42.57, 
paced by Nancy Marley's 22.41 
in the freestyle leg. Texas, with 
Fetter swimming a 21.87 in the 
free, qualified at 1:43.54. 
The same three teams were 
the top seeds in the 800 frees­
tyle relay final. 

Tami Bruce of Florida, last year's champion in the 500 free, didn't make the finals Thursday night. Her prelimi­nary time of 4:48.34 was almost three seconds too slow for the championship heat. 
Olympian Mitzi Kremer of Clemson (4:40.57), Stacy Cas­siday of Texas (4:40.80) and last year's runnerup, Cheryl Simmons of Arizona (4:44.48), were expected to challenge each other in the final. 
Julia Gorman of Florida, last year's champion, also failed to make the championship heat this year. Michelle Griglione of Stanford (2:00.41) and Angel Myers of Furman (2:00.45) re­corded the best times in the preliminaries. 
The championships conclude Saturday. 


page 18 The Observer Friday, March 17, 1989 
ND lacrosse travels to Penn State tournament 
By PETE LaFLEUR pretty well balanced," Cor­tively yet had trouble convert­Corrigan said that playing a ground balls because of the Sports Writer rigan said of the Lions. "They ing on man-up situations and complete game will be good athletes they have at mid­have an excellent first midfield struggled to hold on to leads. paramount to the team's suc­field," he said. "If they (Penn 
The Notre Dame lacrosse and a good bunch of shooters.'' "Defensively, we will have to cess. State) dominate on ground team travels to the Penn State contain their midfielders and balls, their athletic ability will Tournament this weekend in The Irish will be counting on disrupt their offensive ''The big thing concerning be harder to handle. search of its first victory of the continued scoring from their rhythm," Corrigan said. ourselves is that we play 60 year after an 0-2 start over attack line, which poured in The Irish will look for defen-minutes of lacrosse and not The 27-man Irish squad, con­Spring Break.. nine of the 14 Irish goals scored 
have any lapses in intensity," sisting of ten first-year players 
The Irish will face Penn State in last week's losses to SUNY­he said. and only five seniors, will be tomorrow in the four-team Stony Brook and Georgetown. In order to encourage that making their second Eastern tournament, to be held in Uni­Junior Brian McHugh leads the kind of sustained intensity, trip in two weeks. They might versity Park, Pennsylvania. attack with four goals and two Corrigan said he would try to as well get used to playing on The winner of the Notre assists while senior tri-captain not ease up in practices this the road. The Irish have nine DamePenn State game will John Olmstead has four goals week. road games this season and then face the LehighNazareth for the season. "Then hopefully that only four home matches. victor in the championship (concentrated intensity) will
.,,
:>4_·:.',;llf/*' ·.··... ; 

game Sunday. The Irish first middie line of carry over to the games," he "We'd love to have more 
-~'/i'~

The Nittany Lions are 2-2 this junior Mike Quigley, sopho­said. home games and in the future season, having lost to North more John Capano and fresh­Possession, said Coorigan, we will,'' said Corrigan. ''Play­Carolina and Loyola College. man Chris Nelson combined for will also be a key factor in this ing a lot on the road will be a Both teams are among the top-four goals and two assists on weekend's games. The Irish challenge for us, but it's not an 10 teams nationwide. Notre the spring trip. this year have been strong on excuse."
Kevin Corrigan
Dame coach Kevin Corrigan is Corrigan said the play of the clearing-tiding situations and Mter the Easter break, the well aware of the serious threat Notre Dame midfielders and sive leadership from junior Irish have home games with the Lions pose to his young sustained intensity will be goalie Jeff Glazier. who had 27 "We've really got to get the Hartford and Air Force before Irish squad. major factors toward Irish saves in the first two games, on faceoffs, but Corrigan said beginning their Midwest 
"They have a lot of good ath­wins. In the opening losses, the and senior tri-captains Kevin ·ground balls will be the major Lacrosse Association schedule letes on their team and are Irish cleared the zone effec-O'Connor and Doug Spencer. factor against Penn State. at Wooster on April 1. 
Tennis squad prepares to face Purdue and WIU over weekend 
By CHRIS COONEY 

the 7-4 Boilermakers sooner The Purdue match is the mented Gelfman, "so it's diffi­concentrate on playing the Sports Writer than expected. Notre Dame second for Notre Dame this cult to predict how it will go. I percentage shots. We're build­
The Notre Dame women's defeated Purdue 8-0 last year weekend. The 6-4 Irish also think the matches should be ing to the toughest part of our tennis team will get a taste of and holds a 5-4 series advan­play Western Illinois on Satur­close." schedule and the girls are all its future competition when it tage. day. The Westerners will meet The Irish are coming off a looking to play the way we need faces Purdue at the Eck Tennis "The Big Ten teams are al­Notre Dame at 1 p.m. at the successful trip to California them to in order for us to do Pavillion Sunday at noon. The ways tough,"said Irish head Eck. where they went 4-1. Despite well." Boilermakers are the first of coach Michele Gelfman. "I ex­Notre Dame did not play the victories, Gelfman still Despite the relative health of six Big Ten teams the Irish will pect it to be a close meet and W.I.U. last year, but the Irish feels Notre Dame must im­the Irish, Gelfman hesitated to face this season. a good preview of what we'll beat the Westerners in 1986 and prove its play if it is to become name this weekend's starting 
I' 
The meet was originally face later this season." presently hold a 3-1 advantage truly competitive in collegiate lineup. Only senior Alice Loh­scheduled to take place on Purdue has played only one in the all-time series. tennis. rer, out for the season with a 
I I April 21, but an unexpected Big Ten opponent this year, "The teams obviously have "We can't be too creative," back injury, will miss this change causes the Irish to face losing that match to Wisconsin. changed a lot since then," com-said Gelfman. "We've got to weekend's action. 
~ 
I next season? Will the team at varsity status, the men's vol­women's field hockey team? tment discusses the permanent 
Track 

return to club status, even with leyball team has posted a 20-8 Do they have the "right" to file promotion of the women's the threat of a lawsuit hanging record on the club level. They suit under Title IX in hopes of track team.
continued from page 20 

in the balance? too have been overlooked in getting the team reorganized? Then the athletic department 
system. It was time to bring The women's track squad recent club promotions. The real outcome of this or­will be dealing the cards. It's out the big guns--threats and in­should be on the varsity level, deal will come at that meeting yet to be seen who will fold anp timidation. but they are no more deserving My advice to them would be in May when the athletic depar-who will stay. 

They put the ball in Rosen­thal's court--either promote the club to varsity status or face an image-threatening lawsuit. Rosenthal was basically in a no-win situation. 
Sadly, the athletic depart­ment lost this one by forfeit. They refused to put the gloves on to fight a lawsuit that they could have delayed for months and probably won in the end. If it had been drawn out until June, would the two "representatives" from the club still have been around to lead the assault? 
Sometimes a principle is more important than an image. The women's softball, golf and soccer teams won promotion through the system, not through intimidation. 
The athletic department said the money was available be­cause of the recent national championship in football. What if the football team goes 6-6 than the men's 'Volleyball club. 

There's a right way and a wrong way to do everything. In this case, the end does not jus­tify the means. 
While the women are running 
BAPPY 
liND 
BIR7BDAY 
All 
MARIE 
to file a reverse discrimination 
.

suit--or at least threaten one. But it appears the men's vol­leyball club is willing and con­tent to go through the appropri­ate process for promotion. 
What about the disbanded 
~ .... -~··· 
. it 1 


~ 
~ 







A TRADITIONALLY IRISH DAY~ 
~ AT THE CLUB 
., Strolling Bag Piper" 
LUNCH 12:00-2:00 
Corned Beef, Cabbage and more 
St. Pat Says "The Green Shall FLOW" 
SAT NIGHT <ft. 
Got the Post-Pat's Day BLUES? 
Come See ." Billy "Stix" Nicks and the N's & Outs 
Alumn1-Senior CLUB Bartender Applications and Job Descriptions are now available at the Office of Student Activities, 3rd floor La Fortune. 
*Deadline for applications is April 7th 

Friday, March 17, 1989 The Observer page 19 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
3:30 
p.m. Department of Chemical Engineering, "Chemical Process Optimization Using an Enhanced Han-Powell Suc­cessive Quad_ratic Programming," by Christopher Caenepeel, California State Polytechnic University Room 

303 Cushing Hall. ' 

3:30 
p.m. "Monasticism and the Origins of the Medieval Uni­versity," by James John, Cornell University, Hesburgh Li­brary Medieval Institute. 


4:15 p.m. "Clinical Ethics: A Review of the First Decade," by Mark Siegler, M.D., University of Chicago, Center for Continuing Education. 
4:30 p.m. Department of Mathematics Colloquium, "Solving the Cauchy-Riemann Equations," by John Polking, Rice Uni­versity, 226 Computing CenterMath Building. 
CAMPUS 
FRIDAY, MARCH 17 3:30p.m. Notre Dame women's softball vs. St. Mary's. 
7:30 & 9:45p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "Wed­ding in Galilee," Annenberg Auditorium. ' 
8:15 p.m. ND Glee Club Concert, Stepan Center. SATURDAY,MARCH18 
7:00 -2:00 p.m. Graduate Management Admissions Test, Engineering Auditorium. 
1:00 p.m. Notre Dame men's tennis vs. Western Illinois, Eck Pavilion. 
SUNDAY,MARCH19 
11:00 a.m. Misa en Espanol, Farley Hall Chapel. 

COMICS 
Bloom County 
J(}(.Nf}~
a€ FIGVR€ 352.7 8/UION 
YaiK~ fl60, t;V€1?YTHIN6 
A t.ITTt& 
6t/lJ!7eNlY tXPlO/?£!? INTO 
FtfiCCIP. 
BeiNG. 7H£N JH€1'£ 
WHIITWI/S 
(1/t/?[ 611t..AXI[J, SfJNS 
AKOUNl7 
liN[}. lim!? 11 WH/l[. 
!JeFOKe 1He 
KOAt..ll 
e.:<PLOS/0­
8MR~. 
_) 
..

NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Sea duck 49 Bangtail 26 Prof's degree 50 Orr was one
1 Mischief 5 London's 29 Compass pt. 51 Cubic meter Regent's­
30 Stableman 53 Observe 9 Hamadryad 55 Chinese \
32 Gaff 14 Conceit checker?
33 Periods 15 Henri Philippe 57 "Harrigan"
34 Wharton's "Old 

Benoni-songwriter
New York," e.g. 

Joseph Petain 59 Teri of "Tootsie" 36 Almost16 Site of 60 Arrow poison Betelgeuse 39 Seasonable 61 Got up and at 17 -me tangere 40 Spring flowers 
'em 18 Catamount 42 Eight furlongs 
62 Dutch cheese 19 Caisson 43 English Channel 63 Remitted 20 Graf's feat: 1988 
feeder 

64 Polyphonic 22 High note 44 Decoy 
composition 23 Diarize 46 Terhune canine 65 Depend 
66 Papaw or persea 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
DOWN 
1 Stamp mounts 2 Emblazons 3 Tell 4 Normandy 
neighbor 12 A friend of Pooh 33 Willing partner 47 Francis or Dahl 5 A favorite in 13 Blyth or Milier 35 Most repulsive 48 Expunge Bean town 36 Severn tributary 
21 Sea anchor 50 Pulitzer Prize 6 Talismans 37 Firenze coin poet: 1929
25 Amatory 

38 Flier
7 Forward a letter 52 Dance craze of
27 Famed U.N. 

41 Cozier the 60's 
B Gleason role advocate 
42 Coal or quartz 54 Palliate
9Quail 28 Sledge or sled 
45 Screed 56 Host
1 0 Unwritten 31 Gun dog 
46 Hobber, in the 57 Tappet mover
11 Dance craze in 32 Dotted, as with game of the 30's stars horseshoes sa Gold, to Cortes 
Berke Breathed The Far Side
weu Hll'le 
1/ CVKE ffJK 
C 1911 Chronicle Features 
Distributed by Universal Press Syndicate

me COMMON 

COW //NYPAY NOW(/ 
... _£$)
==::::::=~::::::::=:::ir·.:: · ~~ = s ~ 


... 



Jerks Bob Mclaughlin & Kevin McKay HOW TO SCARE 

SORR'<, KIDS. 13UT KEV 

HOW TO .SCARE
tOW TO 
SCAREJ 
YOUR PARt.NT.S 

THE" A~TI.S T IS "BUSY"
YOUR PROFESSOR 
YOUR ROOMMATE 

THIS WEE"K 50 I HAD
CALL HOME AT a A.M.

BRJN G. A DOLL TO 
TO DO TH£ COMIC ALONE 
-SCALE 11/~ PE:T (LA..S.S AND A.SK WHtN 
YELLING ''MOMM'<! "-­
b0LDFI~11 AND GLUE" 
THEN HANG UP.

''.SHOIJ ANl> TE"lL"' I5. 
TH£ SCALES BAC.K ON BACKWARDS SO IT

SATURATE ANY MAIL SWIMS IN SLOW MOTIO 
THE DAY BEFORf FINALS 
A~K ''WI-IAT'.S THE" TITLE, 
YOU SEND HDME wITH OF THE" TEXTBOOK, A'-AIN? 
·SLAP HER IN THE"
LOT.S OF BEER OR 
FA(E, S ( REAI"'\ING "IGOAT'S BLOOD.

APPLAUD OR BOO 
WANT KIWI .FRUIT!" 
.3-17
SEND THEM

I>URIN~ THE l£<.. TURt 
REPEAT TEN TIMES. WHEN APPROPRIATE. • 
MONEY. 

-COAT HIS/HER. BAitK A LOT. 
? ­




Sports
page 20 Friday, March 17, 1989 
~~---·:wa;,';ll:t'>!~:t'~..J,-w;' 

Baseball team continues meteoroic rise in Durham 

By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
As the Notre Dame baseball team readies itself for a four-game roadtrip this weekend, Head Coach Pat Murphy is not only concerned with wins, but also with consistency. 
"In the game of baseball you can't be obsessed with just wins and losses," said Murphy. "You've got to be obsessed with playing day in and day out and forming a consistent program." 
Forming a consistent program is es­pecially important for Murphy's young Irish team as it travels to North 
Associated Press 
Siena, after nine games in empty and quiet arenas, made the most noise in the NCAA tournament on Thursday. 
The Saints beat 13th-ranked Stanford 80-78 in the East Regional as Marc Brown capped a 32-point performance by making two free throws with three seconds left. 
"We were going to play this game like it was our national championship game," Siena coach Mike Deane said. "I think we may act like that tonight, then get ready for Min­nesota tomorrow.'' 
Siena became the fifth 14th­seed to win an opening-round game since the bracket ex­panded to 64 in 1985. 
Middle Tennessee State joined Siena on the upset parade by rallying from a 17­point second-half deficit to eliminate No. 16 Florida State 97-83 in the Southeast Regional. 
The Saints had been playing Carolina to take on Duke and North with a new head coach that is rebuilding Carolina A&T on Saturday and Duke the program. and St. Bonaventure on Sunday. "Duke is a vastly improved team and 

"What's important is the respect that· they play in one of the toughest confer­
we earn on the field, and to do that we have to learn to play consistently,'' said the second-year coach. "That's very tough to do when you have a young bal­lclub." 
Indeed, the 25th-ranked Irish are very young, as there are only six seniors on the entire 54-man roster. There are 20 freshmen on the team. 
Notre Dame will be facing Duke twice over the weekend. According to Murphy, Duke is an improving team ences in the country (the ACC)," said Murphy. "Their pitching is very good." 
The coach, Steve Traylor, is turning around the Blue Devils' program from a dismal 10-35 record last year to a 9-2 current mark. One of the reasons for this turnaround has been junior pitcher Mike Trombley, who will most likely be facing the Irish on Saturday. 
St. Bonaventure is coming off a 26-21 season under the coaching of Larry Sudbrook. The Bonnies are led by junior third baseman Mike Treehouse, and their contest with the Irish will be their first game of the season. 
"St. Bonaventure is coming off a great season and they've got a veteran team returning," said Murphy. "Since it's going to be their first game they'll be all jacked up to play us. We'll see their number one pitcher and it will be a dogfight." 
North Carolina A&T, which finished with a 4-22 record last season, is led by senior pitcher Paul Moore and coached by Calvin Lang. 
see BASEBALL, page 16 
behind closed doors because of 
a measles outbreak on its 
campus in Loudonville, N.Y. 
"You guys are making a big­
ger thing out of that than our 
players," Deane said. "I think 
it helped us perform today. I 
think it made us quicker and 
got us excited. When you're 
playing, you're not really all 
that concerned about it.'' 
Siena, 25-4, took a 61-45 lead 
with 12: 10 to go after a 24-4 run. ·Stanford, 26-7, came back with 13 straight points and extended the run to 21-5, tying the score at 66 on Todd Lichti's dunk with 
6:36 left. 

The Saints led 78-76 with 54 seconds left when Brown missed the front end of a one­and-one. He missed again 20 seconds later and Stanford's Adam Keefe was fouled on the rebound. 
Keefe, who scored 20 points, 
AP Photo 
made both shots, tying the 
Alonzo Mourning (33) blocks a shot against Pit­night in the first round of the NCAA Tournament, 
score at 78. Brown then was 
tsburgh's Rod Brookin during last week's Big while the Panthers were knocked out last night see HOOPS, page 16 
East Tournament. The Hoyas face Princeton ton-by Ball State, 68-64. 

NCAA tournament begins with upsets 
They just can't get enough 
Eilers, Jacobs take on two sports in spring season
li 
By PETE GEGEN 

L "' 
Sports Writer 

., When tight end Frank Jacobs 
,, 
I' 
and flanker Pat Eilers ap­

proached Lou Holtz about l;c playing baseball for Notre !. Dame this spring, the Irish co­
I 
I 
ach gave his permission under 

',I two conditions. I 
i 
~ .· 
~· SPRING 
rlt 

\ FOOTBALL 
t ~ 
PRACTICE 
First, they had to contribute to the baseball team, and two, they needed to attend spring

I \ 'ifI 
football practice.

II ' 
"It's going to be tough," said Eilers. "It's going to take up 

r 
; some time."
' 
I, l 
The two players got their

II[ 
first taste of a double practice Wednesday at the opening of 

i)
:ri spring drills. At the end of prac­
!( 
' tice at 6 p.m., they rushed to 
.~ the dining hall for a quick din­
F' 
ner before returning for 7 p.m. 

•.-..J.
:I r·: , baseball practice. "Right now it's no problem,'lrl said Jacobs. "If you want to II_,t play both you have to make the 
sacrifice. I love both too much

I l~ 
, I· to give it up."
ij' 
Both are keeping up the con­tribution end of the deal, too. Jacobs, who had three hits and the game-winning RBI against Pittsburgh, has started 10 games as a designated hitter and first baseman. 
Eilers, who scored the win­ning touchdown against Miami last fall, did the Hurricanes in again in his only appearance on the baseball field. He scored the go-ahead run as the Irish upset the Hurricanes 4-2. 
The first two days of practice saw a lot of players in new pos­itions. D'Juan Francisco prac­ticed in the strong safety spot, while Shawn Davis moved to cornerback. Linebacker Ned Bolcar occupies the spot held by Wes Pritchett last season. Don Grimm is practicing in Mi­chael Stonebreaker's spot, and Scott Kowalkowski has been moved from outside to inside linebacker. 
"He (Kowalkowski) has a chance to be better at inside linebacker than outside," said assistant coach Barry Alvarez. "He does some things naturally there. His temperament is per­fect for inside linebacker." 
The move also helps fill the hole created by Stonebreaker's absence for the spring. Accor­ding to Alvarez, the All­American linebacker already 
is  ahead  of schedule  on  his  
rehabilitation.  
Troy  Ridgley  has  moved  

from linebacker to nose guard, and with Ricky Watter's move from flanker to tailback, Rag­bib Ismail has moved from split end to flanker. Finally, guard Winston Sandri and cen­ter Gene McGuire have traded positions. 
Players are not the only ones moving around. A few offen­sive coaches have changed pos­itions, starting with Holtz giving up his role coaching quarterbacks to Pete Cordelli. 
Offensive line coach Tony Yelovich slides outside to take over the receivers from Cordel­li, and strength coach Scott Raridon has stepped out of the weight room and onto the field to help Joe Moore with the of­fensive line. 
Graduate assistant Jay Hayes is filling the vacancy created by former linebackers coach George Stewart's depar­ture for the Pittsburgh Steelers. 
Track end doesn't justify the means 
As we head for the 1990s, I thought the arguments and complaints about sexual discrimination in athletics were nearly extinct. 
But some members of the women's track team--two in 
particular--wanted one more victory for equal rights. They 
wanted to challenge a system that they felt had been unfair 
to them far too long. 
They demanded that their club team be elevated to var-
Greg Guffey 
Assistant Sports Editor 

sity status, a status they had sought for some time. The thought was admirable, but their tactics and the resulting decision by the athletic department left something more to be desired. 
The basic demand from the club was an immediate promotion to the varsity level. The NCAA had rejected a request that would have allowed club members to qualify for post-season competition if they posted the required times. 
The athletic department had scheduled a meeting to evaluate the club in May, but the team members did not want varsity status then. They wanted it now, in less than a month to be exact. 
But the team representatives did not go directly to Ath­letic Director Richard Rosenthal. Instead, they authored an opinion piece in Scholastic, threatening a lawsuit under Title IX, a federal law which prevents discrimination on the basis of sex in intercollegiate athletics. 
Tired of coming up with. a bad hand, they decided to deal the cards this time. They were disgruntled with the 
see TRACK, page 18 

I(
·f 


