
VOL. XXII, NO. 125 MONDAY, APRIL 24, 1989 , . THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S . . 

AP Photo Navy Secretary William Ball kneels before the caskets of 47 crewmen killed Wednesday aboard the USS Iowa during a memorial service at Dover Air Force Base in Dover, Delaware Thursday. 
USS Iowa returns to port 
Associated Press 
NORFOLK, Va.-Relatives and friends of the 1,600 crew-­men of the USS Iowa, the bat­tleship scarred by a blast that killed 47 sailors, gathered Sun­day at the Norfolk Naval Base to await the ship's arrival. 
The explosion Wednesday flashed through the Iowa's No. 2 gun turret, which extends six decks down into the ship. There were 11 survivors inside the turret, all on the lowest deck loading powder from the ship's magazines, the Navy said. 
Churches throughout the area dedicated prayers Sunday morning to the families of Iowa crewmen. 
"We have lost 47 of our num­ber in a tragic way," said Cmdr. John Fitzgerald, a chaplain, in a service at the Norfolk Naval Air Station. "Our faith helps us to handle what science cannot answer, the mystery of death." 
A red rose, a yellow ribbon with the number 47 on it and a book containing the names of the dead were taken to the al­tar. 
Fitzgerald said the Iowa tragedy and that of a recently lost Soviet submarine "put po­litical differences aside and unite the human family as one." 
On Monday morning, Presi­dent Bush will lead a memorial service in a base hangar that can accommodate 3,000 people. 
The families of the victims were invited, but Navy officials said they did not know how many would attend. None of the victims listed the Norfolk area as their hometown. 
The Navy has refused to speculate on the cause of the explosion, which damaged only the inside of the turret. 
But Navy teams who entered the turret immediately after the blast found the No. 2 gun's breech open and undamaged. 

Hayes speaks at SMC dinner 
CATHY FLYNN 
Staff Reporter 
Actress Helen Hayes was the guest presenter at the lOth an­niversary Madaleva Society dinner Saturday night. The din­ner recognized the most generous donors to Saint Mary's. 
"I really do feel as if I've come home," said Hayes. The 88-year-old actress visited Saint Mary's several times be­tween 1934 and 1961, when her friend Sister Madaleva Wolff was president. 
Hayes was cited by coordin­ator Becky Drury as the most likely choice as a speaker for the dinner because of her close relationship with Sister Madaleva. The Madaleva Soci­ety, which V{as named in her honor, has raised over 4 million dollars since its inception in 1979, according to William Hickey, president of Saint Mary's. 
"I loved the friendship we had," Hayes said of her rela­tionship with Madaleva. "We had such a giggly companion­ship and a serious one too." 
Madaleva invited Hayes to the campus for the first time in 1955, for the laying of the cor­nerstone in Moreau Hall fine arts complex. Hayes said that she was awed and frightened by Madaleva's reputation as an intellect and poet. 
"Since these are the first words that an actress has delivered from this platform," said Hayes, christening the partially-completed O'Laughlin Auditorium, "I hope they may find their way into some of the cornices and rest there." 
O'Laughlin was to be a place where plays could be polished before they went to the bigger theaters, said Dennis Andres, director of Conference and Events at Saint Mary's. Madaleva invited many fa­mous people during her tenure. 
"I had been promoting greater support for university theater when I was on the Coun­cil of the Arts under Kennedy,'' Hayes said. "I said we should support the university theater instead of the Theater of the Absurd and it has saved the 
American theater to a great ex­tent." 
An honorary doctor of law degree was awarded to Hayes in 1956. That was the day she became part of the Saint Mary's family, she said. Ac­ting in Thornton Wilder's, "The Skin of Our Teeth" in 1960, she spent two weeks on campus. In 1985, she endowed a $50,000 scholarship fund in Madaleva's name. 
"I wish I were here as a freshman with four lovely years ahead of me," ·said Hayes. "May the vision of Sister Madaleva continue into eternity.'' 
Winning her first Oscar in 1931 for her role in "The Sin of Madame Claudet,'' Hayes went on to win a second time in 1971 for a supporting role in "Air­port." She was the first actress ever to win both a best actress and best supporting actress Os­car. 
Other noted films of Hayes's include "Arrowsmith," "A Farewell to Arms," and"Anas­tasia." Her television work in-
see HAYES I page 7 


Students call for reform in China 
Protest has violent episodes 
Associated Press 
BEIJING-Students ·on Sunday paraded on cam­puses, made speeches on street corners and began or­ganizing a nationwide boycott of classes to press 

their  demands  for  demo­ 
cratic reform.  
The  protests  in  Beijing  

were organized and gener­ally peaceful, but marches turned violent Saturday in Xian and Changsa. Rampag­ing mobs looted stores, burned cars and seized a government building. Scores were reported hurt. 
The unrest was perhaps the most violent since demonstrations began April 15, when the death of refor­mist leader Hu Yaobang stirred anti-government sentiments and an organized protest campaign by univer­sity students. 
Protest leaders said stu­dents at Beijing universities planned to join a class boycott beginning Monday and to contact schools nationwide to persuade them to join. 
They said the boycott was a peaceful, legal attempt to force communist authorities to meet with them and dis­cuss demands for a free press, an end to official cor­ruption and other reforms. 
rfr ·:­
~/<"'-'*;-*"'
.. 
-.._ 21­
.... 



Many students also called for Premier Li Peng's resig­nation and hung posters on campus mocking him. 
The official Xinhua News Agency said Monday's People's Daily newspaper contained a commentary that warned: "Social tur­moil can only do good to an extremely small number of people with ulterior mo­tives!' 
About 150,000 people joined Saturday in one of the biggest protests in Commu­nist China's 40-year history, holding a 15-hour rally at Beijing's Tiananmen Square. Authorities allowed the protest to unfold, but stu­dents alleged Sunday that police beat several and in­jured one seriously. 
Worse violence was re­ported Saturday in Xian and Changsha. The state-run Xinhua News Agency said rioters in Xian, a popular tourist city and capital of northwestern China's Shaanxi province, forced their way into the provincial government compound and burned buildings and vehicles. 
It said 130 security officers were injured and 18 people were arrested. Xinhua said the melee began after stu­dents who had been mourn­ing Hu left the scene. 


-

Z.t ;; 
4 
'?'l~'i!0:'J;)~'&W'., 
t""'""'""M ~,.,_ 
Al H F1i. 
AP Photo 

Students in Beijing hoist a banner written by Chinese writer Lao Gui in his own blood on martyr's monument in Beijing's Tiananman Square Friday afternoon. 
page 2 The Observer Monday, April 24, 1989 
WORLD BRIEFS 
Give me pancakes or Seventy-three National Guard recruits were hospitalized briefly in the second mass food poisoning involving security forces in two weeks, the official Kuwait News Agency reported 


give me death
Sunday. Recruits at the National Guard Training College were 
apparently poisoned Saturday by the iftar, the meal with which Moslems break a daylight fast during the holy month of · Ramadan, the agency said. They were admitted to hospitals and released a few hours later, the agency said. In a similar incident two weeks ago, 400 police cadets fell ill after an iftar meal at the Police Academy. Thirteeen were hospitalized, the agency said. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
A 10-year-old boy was buried waist7high in more than 2,000 pounds of bricks when a chimney collapsed, but police say the child was not seriously injured and was in stable condition Sun­day. Joseph Stanley Williams was playing in an empty lot near his home when the chimney, all that was left of a house formerly on the lot, collapsed Saturday, said Clayton County police Lt. George Pinson. It took rescue workers about 20 minutes to free the boy. He was taken by helicopter to Scottish Rite Hospital, where he was listed in stable condition with a fractured thighbone. Pinson said Joseph and another boy apparently were beating on the chimney with sticks when it collapsed. 
Black Muslim minister Louis Farrakhan brought a fiery close to the Mrican American Summit '89 in New Orleans on Sunday, accusing government leaders of formulating secret policies to perpetuate poverty and drug abuse among blacks. Summit chairman Richard Hatcher, former mayor of Gary, Ind., who organized a similar gathering in his home city in 1972, defended the invitation to the controversial Farrakhan. Citing statistics showing declines in white births, Farrakhan said pow­erful whites want to destroy the black community to keep from losing power in the next century. Farrakhan called poverty a subtle form of genocide and said highly addictive crack cocaine may have been introduced in low income areas by people who wanted black youths to "sell death to each other." 
INDIANA BRIEFS 
WKRP is on the air againJohnny Fever doesn't work there and the musical format is country as opposed to rock 'n roll. WNVI-AM in North Vernon, a town of 6,000 residents, has adopted the call letters of the fictional radio station in the 1970s television comedy "WKRP in Cincinnati." Federal Communications Com­mission regulations allow just one station at a time to have the call letters. WNVI management jumped at the chance to capi­talize on the name recognition when the last WKRP in Dallas, Ga., decided to change its name. 
More than 11 ,000 men and women were incarcerated in Indiana prisons in 1988, an increase of 5.3 percent over the pre­vious year, the Justice Department reported on Sunday. Nation­ally, a record 627,402 men and women were held in federal and state prisons at the end of last year, an increase of 7.4 percent over 1987. Indiana's prison population at the end of 1988 totaled 11,406, compared with 10,827 at the end of 1987. But prison con­struction has not kept pace with the inmate population, the report found, with overall prison capacity increasing by just 5.5 percent in 1988. 
CAMPUS BRIEFS 
Greg Striegelwon the pool tournament at LaFortune Student Center. 
WEATHER 

Sunny and warm Partly sunny today, high in the lower 60s. Wind southeast 10 mph. Warmer tonight, becoming mostly cloudy with 30 percent chance of showers. Low in the upper 40s. Mostly cloudy and warmer Tuesday with 40 percent chance of thundershowers. High around 70. 
ALMANAC 
On April 24: e In 1800: Congres:> approved a bill establishing the Library of 
Congress in Washington, D.C., appropriating $5,000 "for the purchase of such books as may be necessruy." 
e In 1915: The Turkish Ottoman Empire began the mass deportation of Armenians during World War I. Hundreds. of thousands of Armenians are believed to have died en route. 
e In 1961 : Following the Bay of Pigs fiasco, the White House issued a statement in which President Kennedy accepted "sole responsibility for the events of past days." 
e Ten Years Ago: President Carter presided over an official state ceremony in the U.S. Capitol to pay tribute to the 11 million people killed in the Nazi Holocaust 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for Friday, April 21, 1989 

Dow Jones 
Industrial Average 
+32.08 
Closed at 2409.46 
S&P 500 ff"3.42 to 309.61 Currency exchange 
Mark +.0044 to 1.8522 OM/$ Yen +0.98 to 131.46¥/$ Pound +.0020 to 1.7125 $/£ 
Precious Metals 
Gold +$0.70 to $384.90 I oz. Silver+ 2.2¢ to $5.765 I oz. 
Source: Prudential Bache Securities 
Information compiled from Observer wires and Observer staff reports 

Finals week is fast approaching ; we only we have more weeks until the descent into hell begins. Despite the grueling tortures of finals, there was always one glimmer of hope, sort of a calm before the storm: the midnight pancake breakfast. 
As most of you already know, the pancake breakfast is served on the Sunday night before finals. Alumni and other friends of the Univer­sity serve the food, and the students get to blow off a little steam before they get back to the books. It's a great time--probably the only time in the entire year that I enjoy going to the Dining Hall. 
Last semester, a lot of us were looking for­ward to what we thought was a Dining Hall tradition. We told all of the freshmen in our section how great the pancake breakfast was going to be until we realized that there wasn't going to be one that semester. Mysteriously, the pancake breakfast was taken off of the Dining Hall's menu. 
I don't know why the University Food Ser­vices decided against having the pancake breakfast last semester, and I don"t know whe­ther or not there will be a pancake breakfast this semester, but I do know one thing: we want it back. The pancake breakfast will be sorely missed if it's cancelled again. 
So with two more weeks until the eve of finals week, I've decided to make a pitch to youl" friend and mine, Mr. Bill Hickey, the Director of Food Services, to let him know just how much we want the pancake breakfast to return. 
Dear Mr. Hickey, 

I am writing you this letter as a formal re­quest to bring back the midnight breakfast on the Sunday before finals. If you've already decided to have the breakfast, ignore the rest of this letter. If you have decided against the breakfast or are currently undecided, please read on. 
I don't know why the breakfast was cancelled and I'm sure you had a very good reason to cancel it, so let's start with a clean slate and let me present my arguments for bringing back the breakfast this semester. I figure that you're a groovy guy and you'll take my request into 
OF INTEREST 

Summer faculty and students are asked to contact Lisa Mackett at 283-4995 if you will be able to work on Foodshare once a week delivering dining hall leftovers to the homeless shelter. 
WVFI 640 AM is accepting DJ applications for the 198s-90 school year. Interested students can pick up an application in the WVFI studios, Suite 200, LaFortune. Applications are due by May 1. 
October break trip for Juniors interested in going to Cancun, Mexico, should come to the information meeting Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Cen­ter. 

'The pancake breakfast will be sorely missed if it's cancelled again.' 
Robyn Simmons 
Assistant Accent Editor 
consideration. First, just think about all of those poor deprived freshmen who never got to ex­perience the excitement of the midnight pan­cake supper. And just think what a pleasant memory it would be for our graduating seniors. 
Also, the pancake breakfast is a real morale booster. After we eat our pancakes, we'll want to study some more, the more we study, the better our grades, the better our grades, the happier we are, the happier we are, the happier our parents are, the happier our parents are, the happier their co-workers, neighbors and relatives are. That's a lot of joy you're spread­ing with just one pancake breakfast. 
One more thing, if you let us have this pan­cake brea~fastwe promise to behave. We won't throw food after football games. We won't make fun of the meatless cheeseburgers. Instead of saying "Oh no, not again! " we will say, "Mmmm. Yummy. I love shells and sauce." Instead of saying, "What's That?!" we will say, "The cheese, brocoli and rice casserole looks particularly appetizing today." 
I hope you bring back the pancake breakfast. I think that everyone will have a good time and we will be eternally gratefully. The midnight pancake breakfast is truly a Notre Dame mo­ment. 
Sincerely, 
Robyn Simmons 
P.S. I don't care what anyone else says, but I love the Chicken Patties. 
Robyn Simmons is a sophomore American studies major and an assistant accent editor for The Observer. 
In Cinq, the campus jazz group, is performing as part of a live concert broadcast today at 8 
p.m. on WVPE 88.1 FM. 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center untill p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of tinterest announces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lecture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submitted materi­als and determine if and where announcements will be published. 

-Ih-e-Obse...~~r-­
-------.1.-=Y=-'-' ---­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except dunng exam and vacation periods. The Observer IS published by students of the Umvers1ty ol Notre Dame and Saint Maris College. SubscriptiOns may be pur­chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer. 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved. • 
Design Editor ...................... Mark Mclaughlin Typesetters ................................ Andy Schlidt .......................................................Chris Malin News Editor ................................. Greg Lucas Copy Editor............................... Missy Weber Sports Copy Editor .................... Greg Guffey VIewpoint Copy Editor ............. Kelly Golden VIewpoint Layout...................... Kern Owens Accent Editor....................... Robyn Simmons Accent Copy Editor........ Michelle Berninger Accent Designer....................... Alison Cocks Typists ........................................... Will Zamer . . . . ... . . . . . . . . .. . . . .......................... Diana Bradley NO Day Editor ............... Margaret McCloskey SMC Day Editor.................. Rozel Gatrnaitan Photographer................................ Eric Ba1ley Ad Designers................................ Kerry Clair .........................................Todd Figwa .......................... . .................... Shannon Roach 

~-----­

DePauw U. pianist and violinist perform at ND 
By JANICE O'LEARY cries of "Bravo," and Rizner's a student of Walter Verdehr. Festival. States in 1972 and began News Staff father commented that ''they He holds a master's degree As a soloist, Rizner has per­graduate work in piano and play well together." Cymer­from Yale University, where formed with the Depauw Sym­chamber music at Indiana Uni­
Violinist Dan Rizner of man, who played at Notre he studied with Broadus Erle phony and the Philharmonic versity, studying with Gyorgy DePauw University performed Dame's Snite two years ago, and Syoko Aki. At Yale, he was Orchestra of Indianapolis. Sebok, Janos Starker and in concert with Claude Cymer­said he was ''pleased with the a recipient of the Stuart Walker Recently, he was appointed to Menaham Pressler. man playing piano on Sunday. new piano." Memorial Award, which is the faculty at the Strings in the 
The recital was part of an ex­given to one outstanding violin Mountains Music Festival. He performs often as a The team has been perform­change program with DePauw major. recitalist, a chamber musician ing together for seven years, University, where Rizner and He has served as con­Claude Cymerman began his and a soloist with major or­although this is the first time Cymerman are associate pro­certmaster of the Lansing, piano studies at age seven in chestras, including: the Paris they have played this particu­fessors of violin and piano Mich., Symphony Orchestra his native Metz, France. A stu­Conservatory, the Indianapolis lar program. The program in­respectively. and as first violinist of the New dent of Pierre Sancan at the Symphony, the Orchestre de cluded selections by Ludwig Haven, Conn., and Grand Conservatoire National Super­L'lle de France, the French van Beethoven, Johannes Rizner began playing violin Teton, Wyo., Festival Or­ieur de Musique de Paris, he Radio Orchestra and the Brahms and Sergei Prokofiev. in the fifth grade and eventu­chestras. He is an active cham­took first prize there in piano Luxembourg Radio Orchestra. ally went on to receive his bac­ber musician and recitalist and by the unanimous vote of the Cymerman made his Carnegie After the concert, family and helor's degree from Michigan has performed for the past nine jury in 1966. Hall debut with Romanian friends greeted the duo with State University, where he was years at the Grand Teton Music He emigrated to the United violinist Sherban Lupu in 1985. 
Concession stand to stay open for summer
Leaving school has neverbeen soeasy. 
It's not surprising that so many students move with Ryder. 

We've g(){ sturdy, dependable trucks in all sizes. Many an~ automatics, with rower steering, air conditioning, and FM on top of the AM. Plus, Ryder can help out with boxes, hand trucks, even moving tips. 
And we're easy on the wallet, too 



CALL RYDER TRUCKS AT THESE LOCATIONS 
By MISSY WEBER Staff Reporter 
The new fieldhouse mall con­cession stand is scheduled to stay open through the end of summer school said Larry Schaack, assistant manager of the Huddle. 
The booth opened on the af­ternoon of April 18 during the snowstorm and is managed by the Huddle under University Food Services. 
Foods such as hot dogs, nachos, popcorn, ice cream novelties and soda are sold at the booth and the prices are identical to those in the Huddle. 
The concession stand is open from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. during the weekdays. 
The idea for the booth began last summer during summer school when a hot dog cart was rather successful said Schaack. "The cart involved too much time to be set up and torn down each day," said Schaack, "We (the Huddle) wanted something more per­manent." 
Schaack said he did not know if the Huddle had plans to open the booth next fall and spring. "I'm sure we'll do something next spring if this proves suc­cessful,"said Schaack. 

Observing Hitler's birthday 
A group of about 20 Nazi sympathizers celebrate the 1Oath anniversary of Adolph Hitler's birthday on Thursday in Sao Paulo, Brazil's largest city. The demonstrators, members of the Brazilian National Socialist Party, donned swastikas and made stiff-armed Nazi salutes while carrying the Brazilian flag. 


1987 plane crash is reinvestigated 
Associated Press 
DETROIT-The pilots in­volved in a deadly 1987 airliner crash, blamed in part on a warning system failure, may have intentionally discon­nected a similar alarm on an­other jet two days earlier, the plane's maker says. 
In a petition filed with the Na­tional Transportation Safety Board, Douglas Aircraft Co., a division of McDonnell Douglas Corp., said the pilots pulled a warning system circuit breaker on the first plane, in­terrupting power to the system and silencing an unwanted warning, The Detroit News re­ported Sunday. 
The same pilots, John Maus and David Dodds, were in con­trol of Northwest Flight 255, a McDonnell Douglas MD-80, when it crashed on takeoff at Detroit Metropolitan Airport on Aug. 16, 1987. 
The pilots died, along with 154 other people, including two people on the ground. The only survivor from the plane was a 4-year-old girl. It was the second worst aircraft accident in U.S. history behind the 1979 crash of an American Airlines jet near Chicago that killed 275 people. 
The NTSB concluded last May that the warning system on the MD-80 failed to alert the pilots that they hadn't set the wing flaps and slats, which pro­vide added lift for takeoff. 
The board faulted the pilots for not setting the flaps and slats and failing to complete a routine preflight checklist. The board also said power to the warning system was inter­rupted, but couldn't determine why. 
Flight records show Maus and Dodds landed that plane in Santa Ana, Calif., on Aug. 14, 1987, and the plane stayed on the ground until Hodges en­tered the cockpit the next day, Douglas' petition said. 

2715 N. Bendix  277-3550  US33N  272-1669  
2306 Western Ave.  289-7515  2625 S. Main  232-6729  
1914 Miami  289-6721  1129 N. Bendix  288-0316  

RYDER® 
We're there at every tum."" 

...---------------~---------------~-----~---~--~~-------------------~ ~-~ ~-~-, 
Monday, April 24, 1989page 4 The Observer 


Pursuit continues in pipe bombing 
Associated Press leaving the store moments

I I 

after the boml1ing Monday 
INDIANAPOLIS-Some-night. where amid fragments of the Someone matching the pipe bomb that exploded in the description of one of those men hand of a 5-year-old girl at the had been in the store three days Castleton K mart last week before, buying BB's like those may be the signature of the per­packed into the pipe bomb. son who built it. Rewards totaling more than 
Federal agents in a Rock­$35,000 are being offered for in­ville, Md., lab who have begun formation leading to the arrest to study those fragments say and conviction of a suspect. they've solved similar cases Six out-of-town bureau because of their eye for identi­agents will join the investiga­fying marks that bombers tion this week, bringing to more leave behind. than 20 the detectives working 
"Most people think with bom­full time to solve the bombing bings and arsons that the case. But the solution may lie evidence is destroyed," said in the work of the three agents Richard Tontarski, forensic assigned to the case in the AP Photo lab chief with the Bureau of Al­Rockville lab. 
On the road again 

cohol, Tobacco and Firearms. The key, Tontarski said, A fifty-wheeled vehicle carrying the First Baptist Church of Westwood, Mass., moves down a road in "They're wrong. There's a tre­probably will be identifying the Westwood as the building is moved on a half-mile, six hour journey to a new location next to other mendous amount of evidence brands of the various compo­church buildings. that remains." nents in the bomb-the gunpow­
Indianapolis bureau agents der, the electronic detonator, and Marion County sheriff's the pipe. detectives reported no prog­Lab work once helped to im­ress Saturday, acknowledging plicate a suspect in the bom­
USSR space program challenged 
that the flood of telephone tips bings of several abortion Associated Press Soviets began soul-searching shortages. that followed the bombing ap­clinics in Florida and Washing­about space expenses after a Adding fuel to the space­pears to be drying up. ton, D.C., by identifying the MOSCOW-Soviets once series of problems with their spending controversy were the The victim, Erin Bower, was relatively rare explosive he danced in the streets to country's space program. The November launch of the $10 bil­in satisfactory condition at used-so rare that investigators celebrate their country's space problems coincided with offi­lion shuttle Buran; the loss in Methodist Hospital. She lost could trace it to the store where successes, hailed by the party cial pressure to cut a $162 bil­September and March of two most her left hand to the blast he bought it. The suspect, as proof of the superiority of lion budget deficit and growing unmanned Mars probes, and her left eye was injured. already suspected in the bom­socialism. impatience with shortages of Phobos I and II, at a cost of a Investigators still are trying bings, had used a false name 
But with chronic shortages of food, consumer goods and half-billion dollars; and em­to identify two men seen in buying the explosives. everything from toothpaste to housing. barrasing delays caused by housing, the cheers are now In part for economy reasons, technical problems and human drowned out by calls to spend the Mir space lab will be with­error in the landings of the last Indiana to receive $2.5 available rubles on Earth. out a crew for three months two crews from Mir last year. 
The Soviet space program starting Thursday when three Opposition grew when space 
million in drug grants
has become the latest target of cosmonauts return to Earth. officials hungry for foreign cur­criticism as President Mikhail The debate on Soviet space rency last month chose a Jap­Associated Press local government contribution. Gorbachev's policy of "glas­spending is reminiscent of the anese for the first commercial The Bureau of Justice Assis­nost," or openness, unleashes American public's questioning trip to Mir. The price tag was WASHINGTON-Indiana will tance, which allocates the long-suppressed public com­of the billions of dollars spent $11 million. receive more than $2.55 million grants according to population, plaints. on the Apollo project in the Defenders of space explora­of the total $118.8 million in will award approximately $30 
Untold billions of rubles were 1960s and 1970s to put men on tion emphasize the benefits of drug abuse grants to be dis­million more during the cur­spent to put the first Sputnik the moon while some technology and information tributed to the 50 states, five rent fiscal year. satellite in orbit 1957, to make Americans lived in poverty. transfers to the Earth-bound territorial governments and Although former President Yuri Gagarin the first man in Controversy over space economy. The Tass news the District of Columbia, Attor­Reagan's budget proposal for space in 1961, and to achieve spending spilled into the open agency recently reported that ney General Dick Thornburgh fiscal1990 had eliminated such other space feats. early this year in the campaign more than $2 billion was spent announced Sunday. grants, President Bush's pro­
On April12, the anniversary for a new Parliament. Candi­on space research in the Soviet "These grants will assist posal would restore $150 mil­of Gagarin's flight in Vostok-1, dates, including maverick Union last year and that eco­state and local criminal justice lion to the program for that a newspaper recalled how Communist Boris Yeltsin, nomic benefits totaled $3.2 bil­agencies in carrying out their budget year, which begins Oct. Soviets celebrated the news by received some popular support lion. part of the international war on 1. singing and dancing through when they suggested the space Satellites have gathered drugs," Thornburgh said. A portion of the grants being the streets. program be put on hold for a weather information, extended The awards are intended to distributed will be passed 
But more than 31 years after few years. television and telephone ser­strengthen local efforts to cur­through to the local jurisdic­Sputnik circled the globe, So­The Kremlin already has vice, aided navigation of ships tail illegal drug trafficking and tion, which all submitted anti­viet space exploration has not reduced outlays for another in­and located mineral and oil consumption. The funds are to drug strategies to the depart­realized the prediction of stitution once outside public deposits, according to articles be matched by a 25 percent ment to get the funding. rocket pioneer Konstantin criticism, the military. Last in state-run media. Tsiolkovsky, who said said har­year, Soviet leaders announced Pravda and other nessing the cosmos would bring some defense plants will be newspapers say public support "mountains of bread and enor­converted to produce con­has declined because space of­mous power" to those who mas­sumer goods, food and building ficials tout successes and hide 
TEMPORARY
tered it. supplies to parry chronic problems. 

INDUSTRIAL 
YOU'RE 

SCIENCE AND 
GUARENTEED TOGO 

ENGINEERING POSITIONS 
PLACES 

MAJORS!
IN THE ARMY. Europe, Asia, the USA-the choice is Indianapolis manufacturer may yours. If you qualify, the Army will 
The Air Force has open-
tee in writing that you'll be sent be hiring temporary production you want to go. Once you've completed your advanced training and are ready for employees for the summer your first assignment, you'll go where the Army promised to send you--no ifs, ands session. Hourly wage will be or buts. You have the world to pick from: countries like Germany, Italy, Korea, as $7.50. Positions will require shift well as the United States. Know where you're going and make sure you get there. work and overtime. We don't just make promises. We deliver! So talk to an Army i=lecruiter about 
CAPT GAGLIO 
station-of-choice option and discover 

219·239-6634
Army difference. To apply, please call SGT Robert Hackley 234-4187 1-800-438-0041 ARMY. BE ALL YOIJ CAN BE. 
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H/V 

Ethics committee continues with investigation of Wright 
Bush's first 100 days as president assessed 
Associated Press vember unless four commit­
tees allow it to continue. 

WASHINGTON-How differ­-He submitted a $441 million 
ent George Bush's first 100 education package. It has been 
days are from Ronald met with little enthusiasm. 
Reagan's. For much of Bush's first 100 
No battering of Washington's days, however, the overriding ways by a charismatic Califor­issue in his dealings with the nian. No outsider's hand on the Democratic-controlled 
Congress was his nomination of 
John Tower as defense secre­

NEWS ANALYSIS 
tary. 

After a bruising confirma­helm, setting the government tion battle, the Senate rejected on its sharpest course change the former Texas senator 53-47 since the New Deal. on March 9. It was the first time 
These 100 days have brought in 30 years that a president's only modest course corrections nomination to his Cabinet had by a captain long used to been turned down. walking the deck of the ship of Opinions differ on whether state. the Tower defeat will impair 
"Reagan came in as an Bush's dealings with Congress ideologue. He came up in or whether he repaired the politics that way, as a damage with his swift and crusader,'' said James popular second choice of Dick Sundquist, senior fellow Cheney, one of Congress' own. emeritus in governmental "The whole town seems to studies at the Brookings Insti­have put the Tower thing be­tution. "Bush has no crusade hind us, and I didn't think we to carry out. It hasn't been a would ever do that," said Tom very dramatic hundred days." Korologos, veteran Washing­
By April 29, 1981, the 100th ton lobbyist who handled con­day of his presidency, Reagan gressional relations for the was on his way to full recovery Reagan transition team. after the attempt on his life and was making it ever more clear On the other hand, Bayard that his energies were devoted Catron, a professor of public not to the question of whether administration at George Was­there would be budget and tax hinton University and an ex­cuts, but to how deeply he could pert on government ethics, slash. said, "It really did hurt the ad­
Kenneth Duberstein, who ministration. It detracted from handled relations with the everything else they were House during Reagan's first doing at the time." months in office, says the as­sassination attempt and And a Republican strategist Reagan's devotion to the who spoke on condition he not themes of his campaign­be identified said, "I think it shaking up the ways govern­demonstrated a vulnerability ment raises and spends money, which people will tuck away for steering the economy out of its later on." doldrums and strengthening Not only have Reagan and the nation's defenses-deter­Bush faced different situations, mined the tenor of that first 100 they are different types of days. people. 
Of Reagan's priorities, Donald Regan, another Duberstein, who later became Reagan chief of staff, des­Reagan's chief of staff, pointed cribed his boss' role in shaping to the significance of the deci­the economic recovery pack­sion "that it is much better to age this way in his book, "For communicate two or three the Record" : major priorities rather than "The president himself had setting up 40 or 50 priorities." very little to do with the inven­
Bush, on the other hand, has tion and the implementation of divided his energies among the policies and mecha­many initiatives: nisms... was content to exer­
-He gave Capitol Hill a plan to bail out and reform the cise the symbolic powers of his savings and loan industry. Con­office-and his astonishing skill gressional committees have in doing so was of course the made significant changes. very thing that made success 
-He and Congress agreed to possible." a nearly $28 billion deficit­reduction plan that leaves the Bush, on the other hand, is a hard choices about cutting veteran of the nuts and bolts of federal red ink for the future. government. "He's got a 
-He secured congressional managerial interest, which agreement to continue non­Reagan never had," said military aid to the Contras, but Catron, the professor of public agreed to halt the aid in No-administration. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The House ethics committee investigation of Speaker Jim Wright moves to San Antonio this week, where panel members will interview the Texas businessmen in­volved in an oil well investment that netted large profits for the blind trust held for the em­battled Democratic lawmaker. 
Two committee members and panel investigators repor­tedly will spend three days in Texas, beginning Monday, to interview San Antonio finan­cier Morris Jaffe; his business associate and son, Doug Jaffee, and two others involved in the oil well deal. 
At the same time, Wright's lawyer in Washington, William 
,_ 
Oldaker, is expected to con­tinue negotiations. with the et­hics committee's special out­side counsel, Richard Phelan, over a timetable for the speaker's personal appearance before the panel. 
The ethics panel-officially the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct-charged Wright with 69 instances of violating House rules in his dealings with Fort Worth developer George Mallick, and evading limits on outside in­come through bulk sales of a book authored by the speaker. 
Wright denies any wrongdo­ing and says he will fight the allegations. 
The first phase of its investi­gation finished, the panel now turns to considering whether there is clear and convincing proof of violations and, if so, deciding whether to recom­mend disciplinary action to the House. 

A spokesman for Wright, Mark Johnson, said no resolu­tion of the Washington negotia­tions is expected until later in the week. 
The Wright case continues to dominate interest on Capitol Hill, particularly on a week with little else on the agenda. 
The Senate remains out of session all week on an extended Passover break and the House does not return until Wednes­day when action is scheduled on a supplemental appropria­tion bill for ·the current fiscal year and the House banking panel continues work on its ver­sion of a measure to shore up the S&L industry. 
The ethics committee said Monday, in its report on Wright, that it was still inves­tigating how a Wright-Mallick company bought a 4 percent in­terest in an oil and gas well for $99,000-putting up only $9,120 in cash-and sold it the same day for $440,000. 
Phelan said the committee needed to determine whether Wright had knowledge of the 

-~--­

I ~ 
deal. 

~






Attention Sophomores 
I 
Place your rir.g order before you leave 1 
for SUMMER VACATION. This will assure you of having it when you 
I return to school in the fall. I 
HOURS: 1:00 P.M. to 4:30P.M. 


Monday -Friday 

INTHE OFFICE ON THE FIRST FLOOR 

I I 
t 
~ l -liA.M~ES NOJRE DA~~ f!OO!iSJQf!..E_ -.... I 
Prices have been cut up to 16°/o on: 

,.........•., 
MacintoshTM Plus MacintoshTM SE* 
Take a Macintosh homefor the summer and have a head start in thefalU 
For more information, please contact: 
Notre Dame Computer Store Office ofUniversity Computing Computer/Math Building Room 25 8:00am-5:00PM 239-7477 
Apple Computer, Inc. ti®The power to be your best.,. 
•Prices reduced on the Se Floppy and Se/HD 20 model only 
___............---------~~--------------~~-----~-------------~--~~-~----­
Monday, April 24, 1989 The Observer page 7 


Gov. of Alaska asks 5 minutes of silence 
Associated Press "This disaster has almost 9-foot seas pushed oil to un­after the tanker hit a reef in 
turned us into people who stained shores over the Prince William Sound, an im­
VALDEZ, Alaska-People all aren't human. We've been run­weekend and forced a cleanup portant fishing area at the over Alaska, so heavily depen­ning on adrenalin just to get crew to take shelter. southern end of the Alaskan dent on oil and fishing, agreed things accomplished," said "We expect to have some pipeline. to silence their anger for five Belle Mickelson, who teaches pretty severe weather for a few Inadequate equipment and a minutes Sunday to remember commercial fishing at Cordova days," said Bill Lamoreaux, an slow response complicated the way things were before a High School. Alaska Department of Envi­recovery of the oil, which has tanker spilled 10.1 million gal­"We need a quiet time to ronmental Conservation super­been driven by currents to lons of oil in an area rich in reflect on why we're here doing visor. "It will definitely have Kodiak Island, the nation's No. wildlife. this and to get set for the long an impact on skimming opera­1 fishing port. 
The period of silence was re­haul. A Band-Aid isn't going to tions." Thousands of birds and quested by Gov. Steve Cowper fix this," she said. The crude oil from Alaska's marine mammals have been to mark the 30-day anniversary Meanwhile, a storm threat­North Slope poured from the killed by the oil, and biologists of the spill. .ening wind up to 30 mph and Exxon Valdez on March 24 fear many more will die. 

Hayes 
continued from page 1 

eludes the NBC series "The Snoop Sisters," Agatha Christie's Miss Marple in "A Caribbean Mystery," a CBS movie, "Murder with Mirrors" and "Miles to Go Before We Sleep." 
Join The Observer 


Seattle Phoenix $99 roundtrjp $99 roundtrip 
Los Angeles $99 roundtrip 

Aspecial offer for students,



only for Atfierican Express·Cardmembers. 

Ifyou want to go places, it's time for the American Express® Card. 
Because now you can take advantage of new travel privileges on Northwest Airlines onlyforfull-time students who carry the American Express Card 

Travel privileges that offer: -~ 7Wo $99 roundtrip tickets-fly to many of NORTI-IWEST the more than 180 cities served by North-AIRUNES west in the contiguous 48 United States. LOOK TO us Only one ticket may be used per six-month period. 
SpecialQuarterlyNorthta!st Destination Disrounts 
throughout1969-up to 25% off most available fares. 
5,000 bonus miles in Northwest's WORLDPERKS® 
free travel program-where only 20,000 miles gets 
you afree roundtrip ticket to anywhere Northwest flies 
in the contiguous 48 United States or Canada-upon 

enrollment through this special student offer. 
And, of course, you'll enjoy all the exceptional benefits and personal service you would expect from American Express. 
The only requirements for privileged travel: you must be aCardmember, you must be afull-time stu­dent, and you must charge your Northwest Airlines tickets with the Card.* 
Getting the Card is easier than ever because now you can apply by phone. just calll-800-942-AMEX. We'll take your application and begin to process it right away. What's more, with our Automatic 
Approval offers, you can qualify now while you're still in school. 

Apply now. Fly later -for less. 


· Apply Now: 1-800-942-AMEX 
*Fare is for roundtrip travel on Northwest Airlines. Tickets must be purchased within 24 hours after making reservations. Fares are non-refundable and no itinerary changes may be 
made after purchase. Seats at this fare are limited and may not be available when you call. Travel must be completed by certificate expiration date and may not be available between RELATED cities .to which Northwest does not ha~e ~irect connections or routings. City fuel tax surcharges not included in fare from Boston ($2. 50), Chicago ($5.00) and Florida cities ($2.00). SERVICES Certam blackout dates and other restnctwns may apply. For complete offer details, calll-800-942-AMEX. Current student Cardmembers'automatically receive two $99 vouchers in the 
An Amenc.an E•,.... c:omoany mail. © 1989 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. 


---·---------------~~~--­


Viewpoint
page 8 Monday, April 24, 1989 


Restructuring of FAC requires clarification
Students praised 
Dear Editor: demic matters and to better We felt it was important to We are writing to clarify the represent the various aca-clarify that student govern­Dear Editor: of our life for a while. I often restructuring of Freshmen demic fields of the University. ment's work, in conjunction I really enjoy reading the Ob­wonder what they are doing Class government, of which the Because of this change and with the Freshman Year of server, and I must say--next once they leave us. Student Senate has played a other developments such as the Studies, was not one of destruc­to the quite amusing personals­As my years of employment small part. Your reporting, and increase in student program-tion, but rather of construction, -the Viewpoint column is my fa­pass at Notre Dame, I will see especially your sensationalist ming since the FAC's forma-separation, and specialization. vorite section. a lot of new faces come and go, headline, neglected a number tion in the early 1970's, Dean It was seen as the best way to 
Being an aspiring writer and it's just one of those things of essential elements in the Emil Hofman of the Freshman allow freshmen an increased myself, I thoroughly enjoy one never really gets used to. changes which are in the Year initiated discussions with opportunity to serve for the bet­reading the opinions and feed­For each and every one of those process of ~ccurring. various student le-'lders about terment of their class and for back of the Notre Dame stu­faces have left some kind of The inaccuracy in The Obser-the addition of a Freshman the the Freshman Year of dents and have been longing to mark upon my life, and I will ver's coverage is that the Class Council. It was decided Studies to receive the kind of voice a different kind of feed­occasionally think of them as I Freshman Advisory Council is that the class council was advice it needs from its student back as a "regular" full-time continue to serve Our Lady and not being "nixed" or needed, under the guidance of advisory council. employee of the school. I work all her students. "replaced." In fact, the Fresh-student government, to provide 
at the Huddle. 

man Advisory Council (FAC), for further involvement of Before I came to work at There is one thing that I have remaining under the guidance freshmen in their own govern­Matt Breslin 
Notre Dame, I would hear lots always wanted to do since I of the Freshman Year of ing and to fill the gap of a pro­Student Body President of snide remarks about how came to work here: find out Studies, will be undergoing a gramming body for freshmen Dave Kinkopf rich, lazy, and stuck-up Notre just where everyone goes restructuring to better advise due to the FAC's increased em­Student Body Vice President 
Dame students were. I never during the summer when we the Freshmen Year on aca-phasis on academic matters. April18, 1989 really thought that much about full-timers remain here to 

God means so much more than "father"
it, as I didn't know too many work. I devised a plan that students personally. Often I would be wonderful if I could Dear Editor: 
assert that God is just a rock, would read comments from get a vast number of the stu­I write in response to one of so it is to assert that God is only students who were given unjust dents to propose it. And this is the many questionable asser­Father. Father is a rich way of punishment for some petty where The Observer could tions levied by Missy Irving in understanding God, but it does "crime," just because they really help. What if I could get her column of April 7 concern­not exclude conceiving of God were Notre Dame students who all the students to send a ing gender pronouns. In this as Mother. everyone "knew" could afford postcard from wherever they column, she states that the use 
If, by asserting that this isthe outrageous fines. go for the summer to Operation of any pronoun for God, except wicked, Ms. Irving implies thatI can now say fairly, after Marsha, clo the Huddle, Uni­the masculine, is "wicked." 
one can only conceive of Godworking with many students at versity of Notre Dame, Notre Now aside from the suggestion as Father, she is the one thatthe Huddle, that they are, Dame, IN 46556. that perhaps she used wicked is guilty of idolatry.
indeed, a misjudged group. I I would put them all in an to mean superior, as others can look at the strictness of Our album and title it, "The ND may use "bad" or "gnarly," Would Ms. Irving find this Lady's policies and see it in the Summer of '89," and those who Ms. Irving seems to imply that wicked? I hope Miss Irving, and hearts of these students. I must wished to see it in the fall could the conception of God as other In the Gospels, Jesus uses the anyone else, tries to conceive say I've never seen such com­request to do so. I think it would than male is somehow inconsis­term "Abba" or Father. Our of God in this new way. She will mitment as that which the stu­be "awesome," as some of the tent with a sound religious tradition has used this as a bless you greatly. dents have to the University. student workers remarked. So tradition. This is completely profound and intimate way to Michael E. Lee 
Working side by side with the how about it everyone? What absurd. think about God. Yet, just as Brownson Hall students, I feel I am now at li­do you say we give it a try and One must first acknowledge ridiculous as it would be to April 14, 1989 berty to more accurately judge see what we can come up with? that God cannot be contained them, and I must say to those A card from every state and as or sufficiently described by who haven't discovered so yet, many countries as possible? human language; however, 
Viewpoint would like to occasionally highlight thev are truly great kids. wow... humanity has used language as 
quotes from faculty members, students and 
Each year when graduation Whatever the outcome--God access to God, a "ladder" if 
readers. So if you or someone you know says
rolls around, there are always be with all of you. you will, with which we climb 
something intellectually stimulating, brilliantly
some senior student workers to greater understanding. We who move on to a new life, and MarshaL. Sisk find God being described in the 
funny, or clearly controversial, send the quote to 
it kind of hurts to see them go Night lead, the Huddle Scriptures as "Rock," 
Viewpoint, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
because they've become a part April17, 1989 "Fortress," and "Shield." 
DOONESBURY 


YOU HAV£ R.ESPONSIBIUT/85 NOW. ZONK.. I CAN7 1?0 7H8 
MR. 8UTT515 A a/ARNING, 

ai!U., I APMIR£ YOUR. 
YOU'R/3NOTA rRUAGeNT ANY­

(J)NVICT!ONS, MIJ(J3., BUT 
I'[) THINK TtU/{;8 BtfORC 
MOR&, MIK&. YOU HAV8 TO fXJ WHAT'S B8ST FOR BABY! I 
SMOKING CAMPAI6N. 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
7HE PROPSl 
BABY? 
'The brain is as strong as its weakest think.' 
Eleanor Doan 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Cocc1a Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor .... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor ................. Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ....... Shannon Roach Sports Editor ...................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks Accent Editor .......................... John Blas1 Systems Manager ............. Mark Derwent Photo Editor ............................ Eric Bailey OTS Director ................... Angela Bellanca Controller ............................ Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the mdependent newspaper publisned by the students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the adm1nistrat1on of e1ther institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opin1on of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor. Executive News Editor. Viewpo1nt Ed1tor. Sports Editor. Accent Ed1tor. Photo Editor. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views ot their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and 'the free expression of vary1ng opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged 
LETTERS 
IT 

'I WRIG~T Rt%£. NOK!R EXXON, WRf:Nzq N\ILIKb:t-t.~s M'V NIAD?NNA... ~ILt-f\f\T ELEVEN.,. 






Accent ­
Monday, April 24, 1989 page 9 
AR AND REMEMBRAN 

Talented cast contributes to ABC's continuation of W ouk's 'War and Ren1en1brance' 
• 
T 
he mini-series to end all mini-series is back. Part two of ABC's blockbuster epic, "War and Remembrance," returns in May with more of the war, terror, and intrigue that captivated audiences in November. Herman Wouk's sensational novel, translated to the screen in all its grandeur and glory, will hopefully attract ratings as high as the book is long. 

JOE BUCOLO 
To Be Continued ... 
ABC will air the final eleven and a half hours of "War and Remembrance" beginning May 7. The series will continue on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday of that week and will conclude on the follow­ing Sunday. ABC hopes this concise schedule will keep more viewers tuned in than the show's spread out schedule did in November. 
When viewers last saw the Henry family, it seemed a family in name only. Pug (Robert Mitchum) and his son, Byron (Hart Bochner), were fighting the war in the Pacific. The Battle of Midway brought tragedy to the Henrys as it took the life of Pug's other son, Warren. The tragedy fur­ther drove a wedge between Pug and his wife, Rhoda (Polly Bergen). As Pug grew closer to a young English­woman, Pamela Tudsbury (Victoria Tennant), Rhoda entered into a series of affairs. 
In the meantime, Byron's wife, Natalie (Jane Seymour), her uncle, Aaron Jastrow (John Gielgud), and her son, Louis, became trapped in 
Covering three and a half years of America's involvement in World War II and requiring five years to complete, "War and Remembrance" features one of the best casts ever assembled. 
WAR AND. REMEMBRANCE at aglance 
Viewing Schedule 

~~:'!;l;,~!y~ ~~i~~::~!il 
Tuesday, MC\)1 9 8.::10 · .m. 
Wedfl¢sgay,.l}1ay 8 .....•.. ··. ·~i·r· ·································· 
Sunday, May 14 
8:r~P-5 p.m. 
Facts and Figtt:re 


• Herman Wouk's "War and Remembrance" vers three anq a half ·.·· ... y~~rs ofAmert~C\'s invoJyemeht in World Jry;.J?~~embei,194l#~PAugust,1945. · o 
• 
Pre· production alone (planning, loc<t!ion-tin g) requi~~ t\.Yoyears. .· . . ....·•··•. ......··· ·} .····· . ·.··.··•· _·.· 

• 
Principal photography, involving actors, required ~lmonths. 

• 
The story involves 2,070 scenes in aJl49~. ri t; (F,'ilm script~ : tlSuallyrun urt<;terJ20pages;)' ·· · · ... ··. ····· · ········· 

• 
The filmin~ done entirely on location, involved 494 sets in Europe and 263sets in theUnif~d Sta~es. . ·• ·•·•··•··.·...... •. •-•·-····••• ..<) •... ·.·· .... ·•·.··... i?' 


· • The death camp atAus~h witzj Polan(i;Jwas ned £or the filmin~f ·• of "War" for thefirst time in history aft~r twoye · ·· negotiation,~ .¥Yith thePolish 9over11ment •·••. .. i . . ...·.....·............ · ......·... . ... ··· ··.· .·•• 
• Thirty lifeguards playedJapanese saUors fired upon m the vyater, and 10 unseen divers equipped withstun-?~P~ were present in ~ase sharks sllot:tJd appear,. They didn(t. &t · 
Europe in the midst of Nazi terror. carcerated at the Nazi concentration The November segment followed camp of Theresienstadt. Byron, un­them through Europea11 countrysides successful in his attempts to rescue as they attempted to return to Natalie, prepared to resume his America; however, as u • .:: ii1 .;t bah ot duties aboard a submarine in the the series concluded, the trio was in-Pacific. 
Jane Seymour returns as Natalie Jastrow Henry in the continuation of Herman Wouk's "War and Remembrance." (Below} Together with her uncle, Aaron Jastrow (Sir John Gielgud}, Natalie faces the near­certainty of the Nazi death camps. (Left) 

May's segment will follow Natalie and Aaron as they begin a horrible odyssey through Nazi camps. Byron s submarine undergoes some fierce sea battles, and Pug and Pamela face a decision about their marriage. Viewers will witness such historical milestones as Yalta, the assassination attempt on Hitler, the D-Day invasion of Normandy, the Battle of the Bulge, and the explosion of the first atomic bomb. 
Covering three and a half years of America's involvement in World War II and requiring five years to com­plete, "War and Remembrance" fea­tures one of the best casts ever as­sembled. Mitchum, Seymour, Bochner, Gielgud, and the Emmy A\Yard-nominee for her work in "Winds of War," Bergen, make up the cast of the epic's main charac­ters. Their incomparable talent adds realism and prestige to this historic piece of entertainment. 
In January, both Gielgud and Barry Bostwick won Golden Globe Awards for their performances in the first half of "War and Remembrance." The series won the best mini-series category at both the Golden Globe and People's Choice Award presenta­tions. In addition, the series received nominations for awards by the Direc­tors Guild of America, Writers Guild of America, and American Society of Cinematographers. 
"War and Remembrance" is sure to be 11 hours of suspense, intrigue, and adventure. Those who misseu November's installment may be inter­ested to know that that portion of the series is available on videotape. With the availability of the cassettes and the excitement surrounding the up­coming segment, ABC hopes that "War and Remembrance" will be remembered for years to come. 

Monday, April 24, 1989

page 10 The Observer 
-
Loss drops SMC tennis to 8-5 
Prep stars spotlighted
By SARAH GEREND prepping the players for the on short notice, when the past Sports Writer Nationals (May 22-27), which coach resigned one week the team qualified for in the before spring break. 

in McDonald's Classic 
The Saint Mary's tennis team fall. 
Last Thursday Butler came
is approaching the final days The number-one singles 
to South Bend for a home meet. 
of its spring season with a player, Jennifer Block, said 
Although Butler won 8-1, the
record of 8-5. that the season has been going 
matches were rather close up
quite well. 

until the end. The single win
"The matches have been 
"The highlight of the spring was by the number two doubles 
very competitive, a lot of them 
team of Charlene Szajko and
close up until the final points season were the two excellent 
of the third set,'' said number­wins against Kalamazoo and Sarah Mayer. 
two doubles player Sarah Wheaton, both who we've lost 
Mayer. to in the past year," Block said. There is one more meet left 
The Belles have been playing ''Our team is very young, but in the season before moving on 
against mostly NCAA Division has a lot of talent." to the Nationals. The Belles 
I schools. Unlike the fall season The new coach, Jo Ann host Toledo at the Notre Dame 
(18-1) , the spririg season is Nester, has done a superb job courts Saturday at 2:30p.m. 
King wins USX Classic in playoff 
Associated Press Kfng, winning her third title King's 35-31 round included 
of the year and the 17th of her one bogey and seven birdies, 
GULFPORT, Fla. --Betsy career, won $37,500 and be­including three straight begin­
King shot a 6-under-par 66 Sun­came the fifth player in LPGA ning at the ninth hole. She also 
day to overcome a four-stroke history to reach the $2 million birdied the third and 14th holes, 
deficit, then beat third-round mark in career earnings. both par-5's, after reaching the 
leader Lynn Adams with a The 33-year-old Limekiln, green in two shots. 
birdie on the first playoff hole Penn., native also solidified her "It's easier not playing in the 
to win the $250,000 USX Classic. position as the LPGA's 1989 final group," said King, who 
King's final round, the lowest leading money-winner. finished 30 minutes ahead of 
of the day by two strokes, al­Adams, whose only LPGA Adams. "Coming from behind, 
lowed her to catch Adams on victory came in 1983, won I didn't have to worry about 
the 17th hole when she dropped $23,125. protecting anything. I could 
an 8-foot birdie putt. Adams First-round leader Lori Gar­just concentrate on posting a 
scrambled for a par on the 18th bacz closed with a 69 and took good score and then wait to see 
hole to set up the playoff. third with a 277 total, worth what happens." 
Adams closed with a 70 to tie $16,875. . King at 275, 13 under par for Kathy Postlewait and Jan "I knew I would have to shoot the 72-hole event. Stephenson both shot 70 to a good round to stay in there, 
Playing the 18th again as the finish tied for fourth at 279. Ok­and that's what I did," Adams 
first playoff hole, King dropped Hee Nu and U.S. open cham­said. "I had a good game plan 
a 12-foot birdie putt after pion Liselotte Neumann tied and stuck with it. Betsy just flat 
Adams two-putted from 25 feet. for sixth at 280. beat me." 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. Shaquille O'Neal scored 18 points and had 16 rebounds and Bobby Hurley had a game-record 10 assists as the West beat the East 112­103 Sunday in the McDonald's High School All­American game. 
O'Neal and Hurley, who scored 10 points, were named most valuable players in the game that fea­tured the 25 best high school players in the country. 
The West team featured two Indiana players. Greg Graham of Warren Central in Indianapolis scored five points and Indiana Mr. Bas­ketball Pat Graham of Floyd Central scored nine. 
Hurley broke a record of eight assists held by three players in the game, which features players selected by a coaching panel from a pool 1,500. 
The West took a 16-2 lead at the start of the game and never trailed. 
"Coach went with his five best guys and told us to go out and play hard," said O'Neal, a 6-foot-11 center from San Antonio who is headed to Louisiana State. 
"You just come out to have fun in a game like this. Usually I'm playing against guys who are 6-4 or 6-5, so it was good to come out and play against people my own size. I just went out and played my game." 
O'Neal--who once scored 27 points, got 36 rebounds and blocked 26 shots in one game--also blocked six shots in this game despite sitting out most of the first half with three fouls. 
"He's got a real big base," said Conrad McRae, who scored nine points for the East. "Guys who are that tall are usually a lot skinnier than that. 
"They came out and got that big lead on us and that was the game. I could tell by looking in the eyes of our guys that they weren't ready to play. It took them too long to realize they had to get in the game and play defense and rebound." 
O'Neal and Deryl Cunnin­gham each had two baskets as the West broke to its 16-2 lead by the 16:47 mark of the first half. 
The West built an 88-73 lead with 9: 33 to play on 3­point shots by Tracy Murray and James Robinson, and two straight 3-pointers by Allan Houston. 
The Observer accepts classrfreds every busrness day from t 0 a.m untrl 4 p m at the Notre Dame offrce. 314 LaFortune. and from 12·30 untrl 3 p m at the Samt Mary·s offrce Haggar College Center Deadltne lor next-day classrfreds rs 3 p m All classrlreds must



Classifieds 
be prepard Tho charge rs 10 cents per lrve characters per day 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash or Credit available' PANDORA'S BOOK 
808 Howard St. jus! off of N.D. Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 233-2342 
RESUMES, reports, etc. typed on a computer. Call Sue's Secretarial Ser­vice anytime at 299-0063. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
HOLY CROSS PRIESTS & BROTHERS VOCATION COUNSELING for the ONE­YEAR CANDIDATE PROGRAM and other ministry opportunities. Contact: FR. JOHN CONLEY, CSC BOX 541 NOTRE DAME 239-6385 
Pray to St. Jude ···························. 
HOUSESITTING for Summer Respon­sible for: clean house. pets, plants, yard. Call Debbie 283-4500 
\ LOST/FOUND I 
DO YOU HAVE A BLUE & WHITE WIL­SON GOLF UMBRELLA? IF YOU PICKED IT UP FROM NIEWLAND 127 BETWEEN 9:15 AND 10:45 ON THURSDAY. PLEASE RETURN IT TO IT'S OWNER. X4927 PLEASE 
FOUND: ONE SET OF DORM KEYS. CALL4328 TO IDENTIFY. 
--~~-;;;~ --I 
-NICE FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. 287-6389, 683-8889. 
FOUR FLAGS FARM BED AND BREAKFAST CONVENIENTLY LO­CATED 20 MINS. FROM ND. !DEAL FOR All NO ACTIVITIES. 616-471­5711. 
APT. 2 PEOPLE GOOD NEIGHBOR­HOOD 288-09551.289-2331 
MALE GRADUATES 
FURNISHED ROOMS, AIR, KITCHEN, FRIDGE. 5 MINS. N. CAMPUS. 272· 0615. 
OWN ROOM, Apt. w' excel. amenities. Built in desk/shelves. Considerate male or female non-smoker. $19S e 11.1 utilities. Call 256-1538 
Turtle Creek Townhouse avarlable fo summer.Price negoctiable 272-9298 

SUB-LEASING TURTLE CR. TWNHOUSE IF INTERESTED CALL TIMIDAN x1 066 
or LANCE x2458 

Movrng to NYC? Lg 1 bdrm. apt. for rent Aug. 1. Good midtown lac. tve, r:YW & lg closets. Per­fect for share. Call Betsy or Jackie. (21 2) 582-4250. 
WANTED 

GOVERNMENT JOBS! NOW HIRING THIS AREA! $10,213 TO $75,473. IMMEDIATE OPENINGS! CALL (REFUNDABLE) 1-315-733-6062 EXT F-2382H. 
Looking lor a female housemate to share a 4 bedroom house located 6 miles north of campus. $225 plus utilities. Available May 1. Call Jayne after 5:30-272-8805. 
··--··-·-·-··-····· 

$$$$ NEED A SUMMER JOB? $$$$ Positions as sales reps. available Work near your home, fulfjlart time Commis­sion basis-you determine $$$$ For ap­pointment call Brad. 283-1246 
I am looking for a bike for grad school next year. Steve 3767 
FOR SALE 

FOR SALE: 10-SPEED BIKE, GOOD CONDITION, $25. CALL CHRIS AT 1073 
FOR SALE lg. wooden couch and chair 75$ call LISETTE 271-9396,1eave msg 
IL--_TIC_K_ET_S------1 
$$$ GRAD TIX WANTED $$$ Call Michelle at 3196 

··········································· 
• • "WANTED-I grad tix, will pay$$ Call # 3183.-. 
••• HAWAIIAN CLUB LUAU ••• Saturday, April 29 So. Dining Hall 6-9 p.m. Tickets $5.00 On sale now at ISO office 
PERSONALS 

hi ag 
MY BAND NEEDS ME! I desperately need a ride anywhere near Cleveland the weekend of April 28. PLEASE CALL! x1074 
AN TOSTAL AN TOSTAL 
IMPERSONATIONS 'AND COMEDY SIGN UPS. SIGN UP FOR ONE, THE OTHER, OR BOTH CALL 284-5342 ASK FOR JULIE. PENNEY, OR KELLY. AN TOSTAL 
SCAP .... The Word of the Future!!! Use it NOW!! 
SUMMER JOBS ALLLANr:YWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-343-8373. 
t need a ride to IU for Little 500 weekend. Can leave anytime, will pay for gas. Please call Kathleen at # 2666. 
Ride needed to Cols., OH, leaving p.m. Apr. 28, returning Apr. 30 Pat x2036 
I NEED GRAD TIX! CALL MIKE # 1558 
SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $279 each way on discounted scheduled airlines to Europe from Chicago. Call (800) 325-2222. 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS 
NEW JOB OPENINGS RECEIVED IN LAST WEEK. PICK UP HANDOUT IN CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES FOR DETAILS. 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS 
NEW JOB OPENINGS RECEIVED IN LAST WEEK. PICK UP HANDOUT IN CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES FOR DETAILS. 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS 
NEW JOB OPENINGS RECEIVED IN LAST WEEK. PICK UP HANDOUT IN CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR DETAILS. 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS 
NEW JOB OPENINGS RECEIVED IN LAST WEEK. PICK UP HANDOUT IN CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES FOR DETAILS. 
SENIORS: STOP AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT TO CHECK OUR HOUSING/ ROOMMATE "INFORMATION EXCHANGE". 
JUNIORS-JUNIORS-JUNIORS!!! Meeting for all interested in 
the October Break trip to CANCUN, MEXICO Tuesday, Apr.25 Montgomery Theater, Lafortune 7:00 

JUNIORS-JUNIORS-JUNIORS!!! 
Meeting for all interested in the October Break trip to CANCUN, MEXICO Tuesday, Apr.25 Montgomery Theater, Lafortune 7:00 
DEAR LYNN, 
HAPPY 22ND BIRTHDAY! 
HAPPY ST. MARY'S GRADUATION GOD BLESS, LOVE, 
MOM AND DAD 
For ODN One Wortd shirts call 3193 
Anyone going to South carolina or S out­hern georgia i need aride home. I will share expenses. I can leave on May 12 after 2. It you can give me a rrde call Ed at 272-7398. 
ONE LAST CHANCE--THE CONTENTS OF ROOM 434 LEMANS ARE FOR SALE!'!! (no. not us!) BIG ROYAL BLUE CARPET AND COUCH SECTIONS THAT ALL FIT ROOM ARE FOR SALE AT A GOOD PRICE!! GREAT DEAL FOR THE GIRLS WHO PICKED OUR ROOM FOR THE '89-9-00 YEAR. We must sell, we're getting rea! apartments after graduation!! call 284-5221 or visit rm 434. 
SENIOR MONTH SENIOR MONTH SENIOR MONTH SENIOR MONTH SENIOR MONTH 
ITS COMING SOON! 
''..'SENIORS..... SENIOR MONTH IS HERE!!! 
DON'T MISS THE ACTION 
....'SENIORS'.... 
MALETOSHARETOWNHOUSENEAR NO. CALL TYLER 277--4831 OR 271· 9360 
For anyone interested in helping out with the production of the St.Edward's Hall Players 90-91 production of "Noises Off", there wilt be a short meeting on Tues. April 25th at 7:30 in the St. Eds party lounge. If you are interested in... Direct­Ing, Producing, Stage Managing, Publicity, Tech "Stull" and Such 
please attend!!! 
............................. THANK YOU ST. JUDE! GAR 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANNE CRANELY! YOU ARE FINALLY 21! I HOPE YOU HAD A GREAT WEEKEND CELEBRAT­ING! 
LOVE, 
MEG 
MY ROOMMATE IS WEIRD 
SMC FRESHMAN FORMAL BOXERS "APRIL SHOWERS" ON SALE NOW IN ROOM 507, 510 OF LEMAN! ONLY $5.0011! WHAT A BAR­GAIN! LIMITED SUPPLY-SO BUY NOW 
MACINTOSH OWNERS Are you plan­ning on storing your computer over the summer? Then you are the person I want! I would like· to RENT your computer for the summer. Price negotrable. Call X1401 Ask for ERIC. 
looking for Mr N.D. Bar Looking for Mr 
N.D. Bar Looking for Mr N.D. Bar back and forth around they go constantly watching them to and fro cold or hot chilly or warm I remain hidden safe from the storm 
ATTENTION: ( ) ANYONE LIVING IN NYC AREA ( ' NEED THINGS SHIPPED HOME? ( 
CALL JOHN AT 271-8704 OR ( 
) 283-1789 (AFTER !O:OOPM) ( 
Dorothy Robin: Phileo kai se, te oimai sou ... 
Congratulations DOUG WEGLARZ and DEB FITZGERALD on your new baby. I hope It doesn't look like either of you. 
Attention laura Kuhns You are the reigning goddess of Ft. Walton Beach, Flf Your sister BOPPY Is one red hot babe but she pales In comparison to your beauty. 
your pal 
Molly 

Join the MARY KAY WALLER date of the day club. Membership Includes mass outings to Senior Bar, with op­tional rides home to a veritable bevy of new and exciting beds. 
AUNT FLO AND THE FOUR PLUGS ARE GETTING READY TO LEAVE THEIR MARK AT STEPAN ON TUES­DAY. THEY WILL TRYTOSTOPTHEIR OPPONENT FROM LEAKING OUT OF THE BRACKET. WIND, RAIN, CRAMPS AND MINOR IRRITABILITIES CAN NOT STOP US FROM DOMINATING. 
LIZ AND CANDY CANNOT BE STOPPED! OUR JUGGERNAUT IS SE­CURE SO BEWARE! LONG LIVE THE SWEENEY SISTERS!!!!!! 
To party with Regina's Best. vote for the winning team of Kathy Fisher, president; Bridget Awe, vice-president: Chris Bacon, Secretary; & Traer Zerbenski, treasurer. 
TO THE FRIENDS OF JANET SMITH 
PLEASE COME TO A MASS OF THANKS SACRED HEART CRYPT, MON 5:00pm 
RIGHT TO LIFE, PLS FRIENDS MASS FOR JANET SMITH MON. SACRED HEART CRYPT 5:00pm 
SIMON original soundtrack recordings are now available at the SUB office, 2nd floor LaFortune for $7 each, or call Rob Meffe at # 3660 
NEW YORK NEW YORK NEW YORK HELP\ I NEED A RIDE HOME TO ANYWHERE IN THE STATE PREFERABLY SOMEWHERE BETW. ALBANY & NY LEAVING 5'12, 13 OR 14 I pack light & wrll share expenses Please call x371 9 
CORTNY Hope you've enjoyed the stay. You've done good --I know you'll make the choice that's best for you! Thanx for dinner. breakfast, and the stuff. I envy you!!! Love, Jay 
TOP 10 PSEUDO ROOMIE QUOTES 
10. I hope you know, we're not having sex 9. Don't worry, he's not tne only one out of the four to be told that ...1know, I was there 8. He was a good date...at least he stayed 7. Oh my God, he threw load at me 6. They were in our room!! 
5. Hold on loosely 4. It's natural science day, why aren't you dressed like your favorite tree? 3. Sister, can I borrow the mail dolly? 2. Could you be less aggres­sive? 'f.'First one to break in the love papason wins Tippecanoe! · 
HOPING TO ADOPT We're a happily married, financially secure couple with a beautiful home and lots of love to share with a much­wanted baby. II you are pregnant and considering adoption, please call us. Expenses paid. Confidential, legal. Please call Deborah and David collect day or night at 312-935-4088. 
A.M. HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY!HOPE YO!J HAVE A GREAT DAY.LOVE.TER BEWARE! 
AN TOSTAL T-SHIRTS! 
AN TOSTAL T-SHIRTS! 
P.W. WILL SELL AN TOSTAL T­SHIRTS MONDAY-WEDNESDAY LUNCH AND DINNER AT NOH. SHIRTS ARE $8 
VOTE DAN·O YU FOR UMOC 
JUST LOOK AT HIS FRESHMAN DOG­BOOK PICTURE(REMEMBER THE SWORD IN HIS FACE?) VOTE DAN-0 VOTE DAN..() YU FOR UMOC 
VOTED MOST LIKELY TO SUCCEED 
LEONA HELMSLEY: KELLY 
CAMPBELL SHE'S A B..'H ON 
WHEELS AND WOULD PROBABLY 
MAKE A NICE WIFE 
-BAD ATTITUDES 

---------------~--------~~------~ 
ND tennis cruises -­against Spartans 
By BOB MITCHELL 
Sports Writer 
At St. Edwards' Carnival on Sunday afternoon, superfrosh Dave DiLucia was the recipient of one whip cream pie after an­other in his face, many thrown by his fellow teammates. But on Saturday afternoon, the Notre Dame men's tennis team came together to down the a hapless Michigan State squad, 7-2. 
The victory over the Spar­tans improved the Irish record to a respectable 2-3 against Big Ten opponents this season. The 17-9 Irish squad overcame a va­riety of illnesses to take a 4-2 lead after the singles competi­tion, and solidified the win by sweeping the doubles competi­tion. 
"I have a very young bal­lclub," said Spartan head co­ach Stan Droubac who is in his 32nd and final campaign. "This year's Notre Dame squad has great depth. Their number one through number six players are just tremendous. I was very impressssed with their doubles. They are a well coached and a good ballclub." 
While the Michigan State co­ach was quick to give the Irish accolades, Notre Dame skip­per Bob Bayliss assessed the match in a somewhat more subdued manner. 
"We played a good match," said the second year head coa­ch. "Coming into the match we certaily had a better record, better schedule but you can take all those things and throw them out the window when you play a match. Last year it was the same situaion and they beat us." 
Indeed, the Irish knocked off esssentially the same Spartan team that beat Notre Dame 5-4 last year in East Lansing. Leading the way for the Irish was No. 1 Dave DiLucia and No. 3 Brian Kalbas. 
The No. 53 collegiately ranked DiLucia simply over­matched South American Damon Valentino in a battle of the No. 1 players, 6-2, 6-2. 

Dave Dilucia 

Senior team captain Brian Kalbas had a suprising easy time with Santiago Cash in straight sets, 6-4, 6-0. Cash downed Kalbas lasst year in straight sets. 
"Brian had a little extra in­centive today to finish early be­cause he was leaving for the senior formal right after the match," said Bayliss dismiss­ing the notion that coaching had anythhing to do with the win. "David's match was just a case of having too much." 
The Michigan State match marked the first home outdoor match of the year. And in the eyes of two Notre Dame players, they might have wished that the milestone had come later in the year. No. 2 Walter Dolhare suffered a two set loss to freshman Grant As­her, 6-1, 6-4. Dolhare was ham­pered by a flu throughout the week that undoubtedly affected the outcome of his match. The Argentinian was not able to play his usual No. 2 doubles spot. "It was pretty nasty out there today," said Bayliss. "It was uncomfortable and there was nothing to block the wind. It definitely hurt Ryan Wenger. For Walter to lose that match he was not 100 percent physi­cally." 
Next up for the Irish is pe­rennial Division III power Kalamazoo and Illinois State next Saturday on the Courtney Tennis Center. These two matches will mark the end of Notre Dame men's tennis 66th season of play. 

The Observer I Scott McCann 
The Notre Dame lacrosse squad dropped an 18-5 decision to visting Ohio Wesleyan Saturday afternoon. The loss dropped Notre Dame's record to 7-4, while Ohio Wesleyan improved to 10-3. Pete LaFleur will detail the weekend action in Tuesday's paper. 
Bob Miller was especially re­lowed only one run in seven in­
sponsible for the last double nings. 
play, as he made four position Tony Livorsi pitched the final 
Irish 
continued from page 16 

changes when Ed Lund stepped two innings, striking out the up to bat. For Lund, he sent last four batters. decided by three or less. third baseman Ryan Raymond Sunday was the day of the to pitch. In the last three in­In that game, Murphy was 
double play, with five coming nings, he made four pitching ejected after the second pitch against the Irish in the first changes. when Lonnie Draper hit a fly game and three in the second. "Sometimes it (a pitching ball into right field and it was Both games started, and change) works, if it doesn't, ruled that James Sass dropped ended, in a double play. you're a bum," said Miller. the ball. Murphy had argued 
In Sunday's first game, the "I've been around long enough several questionable calls in Irish were victims of four to know that. (Relief pitcher the first game. double plays in the first four Mike) Gabriele got a little tired "It was one of those innings. The 6-3 loss was made on us, and the other kids came weekends with four well­final in the seventh inning when through who hadn't been in played ballgames, and the Pat Pesavento hit into a bases­there as much." credit goes to Detroit," said loaded double play to end the Murphy. "Bob Miller is a game. In Saturday's split, Erik master. I hope someday I know 
Starter Brian Conway (3-2) Madsen (6-3) tossed a five­half as much as he does today." did not get much help from his hitter in the first game's loss, EXTRA BASES: Despite the team, which committed four allowing five hits and one run fact that junior centerfielder errors. Conway went five in­in seven innings. The Irish Dan Peltier broke his 16-game nings, gave up seven hits, and were shut out by senior pitcher hitting streak in the first game allowed six runs, four of them Stewart Hillman, who pitched on Saturday, he is continuing earned. on the 1988 Olympic Canadian his hot hitting. Peltier was 6­
Double plays encapsulated baseball team. It was the for-13 over the weekend, the second game as well. In the fourth time this season that the raising his average to .453 after ninth inning with the score 5-4 Irish have been shut out. 40 games...James Sass has and runners at first and third, raised his average to .400, up catcher Ed Lund hit into a Detroit scored its only run in from .350 on April 10...The double play to end the game, the fourth inning when Mike Irish are hitting .317 as a despite the fact that the runner Cloutier singled and Mike team...When the Irish score at first base was off with the Stefanski singled him home. four runs or more, they have 
pitch. On the day, the Irish hit In the second game, the Irish record of 28-1, the only loss into eight double plays. beat the Titans 7-2 by pounding coming in the 5-4 defeat against 
Mike Passilla, 4-2, suffered out 16 hits and shutting down Detroit on Sunday...Sunday's the loss, going five innings and the Detroit offen~e. Brian doubleheader sweep was the allowing five earned runs. Piotrowicz picked up his sixth first MCC doubleheader sweep 
Detroit 25-year head coach win of the season when he al-of the season for Detroit. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 

.............. 
~n•un 
PUT YOUR 
COLLEGE DEGREE 
TO WORK. 
Air Force Officer Training School is an excellent start to a challenging career as an Air Force Officer. We offer great starting pay, medical care, 30 days of vacation with pay each year and management opportunities. Contact an Air Force recruiter. Find out what Officer Training School can mean for you. Call 
USAF OFFICER RECRUITING 317-848-5942 COLLECT 
~==-; ... 
..::-.::.....: !> 
-~-..,.. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 


* 
* 

And
* 
* 

FULLY FURNISHED
* 
* 
* 

EXECUTIVE SUITES
* 
* 

ELEGANT & SPACIOUS
* 
* 

1 , 2 and 3 bedroom 
* 
* 

apartments
* 
* 
* 
* 

Beautifully set on the
* 

St. Joseph River
* 
* 

5 minutes from 
* 
* 

Notre Dame Campus 
* 
* 
* 

1671 Riverside Dr .. @
* 
* 

CALL 233-2212 .~=
* 
* 

r-· 
Students earn money and gain job experience this summer. Positions 
now open in:  
·Marketing  • Office Automation  
·Personnel  ·Accounting  
• Distribution  • Manufacturing  
• Advertising  • Telemarketing  

No experience necessary. No fee, no contract. We have the positions/hours to keep you busy this summer. 
r\orrell Contact these offices for more information: 
\oi ... IUI..: 
1900 East Golf Rd. Schaumburg. Ill. 31<:/605-1233 
2400 East Devon Ave. Des Plaines, Ill. 3121699-0950 
One Mid-America Plaza Oak Brook Terrace, Ill. 3121574-2797 
1601 North Bond St. Naperville. Ill. 3121369-2440 
8707 Skokie Blvd. 
Skokie. Ill. 
3121673-4024 4740 West 95th St. Oaklawn, Ill. 3121636-0401 

645 North Michigan Ave. Chicago, Ill. 3121337-6054 
55 West Monroe Chicago, Ill. 3121782-4181 
35 East Wacker Chicago, Ill. 3121346-9276 
Bring in this ad and receive an additional $20.00 on your first paycheck. 
---~--------...-----~--~-------. 
Monday, April 24, 1989

page 12 The Observer 

-•Ryan loses no-hitter 1n ninth ~against Blue Jays 
Associated Press 

TORONTO --Nolan Ryan came within two outs of his sixth career no-hitter, losing it when Nelson Liriano tripled in the ninth inning Sunday as the Texas Rangers beat the Toronto Blue Jays 4-1. 
Ryan finished with his lOth lifetime one-hitter. He had been untouchable un­til Liriano tripled. 
Ryan was attempting to become the oldest pitcher to throw a no-hitter. Ryan, 42, would have surpassed Cy Young, who did it at 41 in 1908. Ryan, 2-1, struck out 12 and walked three in his 275th career victory. 
Orioles 3, Twins 0 

BALTIMORE --Rookie Bob Milacki pitched a three-hitter and the Bal­timore Orioles beat the Minnesota Twins 3-0 Sunday. 
The Orioles moved into first place on Saturday night, the first time they had been on top since May 11, 1985. 
Milacki, 1-1, faced the minimum 27 batters and threw 100 pitches. He struck out three. walked two and was helped by four double plays. 

Royals 10, Red Sox 0 
BOSTON --Bo Jackson's two-run homer highlighted a 17-hit attack and Charlie Leibrandt pitched a five-hitter as the Kansas City Royals routed the Boston Red Sox 10-0 Sunday. 
The Royals hit seven doubles, includ­ing three by Bob Boone, and stole two bases. 
Leibrandt. 1-2. allowed five singles in his 13th career shutout. He struck out four and walked none. 

Athletics 2, Angels 0 
OAKLAND, Calif. --Mike Moore scat­tered three singles in 7 2-3 innings and the Oakland Athletics got past the Cal­ifornia Angels 2-0. 
Moore, 2-1, struck out five, walked two and allowed only three singles by Claudell Washington. 
Moore left with two outs and nobody on base in the eighth with Washington at the plate and Oakland leading 1-0. Left-bander Rick Honeycutt retired the left-handed Washington on a grounder. 

Mariners 10, White Sox 6 
CHICAGO --Scott Bradley hit a three­run double, keying a five-run first in­ning Sunday that sent the Seattle Mariners over the Chicago White Sox 10-6. 
Bradley later added a run-scoring double as Seattle got 10 hits off six pitchers. 
Steve Trout, 1-1, gave up one earned run in five innings. 
Shawn Hillegas, 0-2, retired only two 
of eight batters in the first inning. 
Harold Reynolds led off the game with 
a triple and scored on a single by Henry 
Cotto. 


Yankees 5, Indians 0 
CLEVELAND --Andy Hawkins pitched two-hit ball for 7 2-3 innings and Mel Hall snapped a scoreless tie with a two-run double in the sixth inning Sun­day as the New York Yankees beat the Cleveland Indians 5-0. 
Dave Righetti finished with one-hit relief. Hall hit a bases-loaded double off John Farrell, 0-1. 

Dodgers 7, Giants 6 
LOS ANGELES --Will Clark went 5­for-5 but Atlee Hammaker walked in the winning run in the lOth inning Sun­day as the Los Angeles Dodgers came from behind to beat the San Francisco Giants 7-6. 
Eddie Murray gave the Dodgers a 5-4 lead in seventh with a homer off Craig Lefferts. The Giants took a 6-5 lead in the eighth . only to see the Dodgers tie in the bottom of the inning. 

Astros 5, Reds 2 
CINCINNATI --Glenn Davis hit a two­run homer Sunday as the Houston Astros defeated the Cincinnati Reds 5-2. 
Danny Jackson, 1-4, allowed nine hits and four runs in seven innings. Bob Knepper, 1-3, gave up four hits over 6 1-3 innings. 
Knepper walked Bo Diaz with one out in the sixth and pinch-hitter Joel Youngblood singled, bringing on Larry Anderson. Barry Larkin's grounder scored Diaz, and shortstop Rafael 
Ramirez' throwing error on the play scored Youngblood, pulling the Reds to 4-2. 

Expos 9, Cardinals 3 
ST. LOUIS --Spike Owen had three hits and drove in three runs and Hubie Brooks homered Sunday as the Montreal Expos beat the St. Louis Car­dinals 9-3. 
Montreal had 15 hits off five Car­dinals' pitchers, including four doubles and two triples. Tim Raines had three hits and scored two runs. 
Bryn Smith, 2-0, gave up five hits and struck out two in seven innings. Joe Hes­keth finished the combined seven­hitter. 

!Braves 9, Padres 4 
ATLANTA --Dale Murphy drove in six runs with four hits Sunday, leading the Atlanta Braves past the San Diego Padres 9-4. 
Murphy hit a two-run homer in the 
third, a two-run single in the sixth and 
a two-run double in the eighth. 
Tom Glavine, 3-0, allowed eight hits 
in 6 2-3 innings, struck out four and 
walked two. 
Atlanta scored three runs in the first 
off Dennis Rasmussen, 1-3. Gerald 
Perry hit a two-run homer and Jeff 
Treadway hit a run-scoring single. 

Mets 4, Cubs 2 
NEW YORK --Kevin McReynolds hit a two-run, go-ahead homer in the eighth inning Sunday, leading the New York Mets past the Chicago Cubs 4-2. 
Calvin Schiraldi, 1-1, walked Tim Teufel leading off the eighth and McReynolds followed with a home run, giving the Mets a 3-2 lead. Mitch Wil­liams relieved and Gary Carter hit a homer with two outs in the inning. 
Rick Aguilera, 1-0, pitched two in­nings of hitless relief for the victory. 
Andre Dawson gave the Cubs a 2-0 lead with his 300th career home run in the seventh inning, off Ron Darling. Darling pitched seven innings and al­lowed seven hits. 

Pirates 6, Phillies 4 
PITTSBURGH --Bobby Bonilla's two­run homer in the eighth inning capped Pittsburgh's come from behind rally as the Pirates beat the Philadelphia Phillies 6-4 Sunday. 
Philadelphia led 4-0 before Pit­tsburgh scored three runs in the sixth and three in the eighth. 
Singles by pinch-hitter John Can­gelosi, Jose Lind and R.J. reynolds in the sixth scored a run and chased starter Larry McWilliams. 
Ricky Jordan misplayed Bonilla's grounder to first, allowing a second run to score and Barry Bonds followed with a run-scoring groundout. 

Draft 
continued from page 16 
people," said Seattle coach 
Chuck Knox. 
Moore coached Pro Bowlers 
Covert, May, Grimm and 
Fralic as an assistant at Pitt. 
Seattle originally wanted to choose a defensive end. That plan changed after San Diego took Pitt's Burt Grossman with the eighth pick and Chicago picked Trace Armstrong of Florida with the 12th selection. 
"We tried to get help at the defensive line and possibly make deals to move up in the draft, but we weren't able to do it," said Knox. 
Starns, another All-American last season, also was surprised about his selection. 
"I was thinking third round," said the 6-4, 257-pound defen­sive end. "It was a surprise to go in the second." 

Like Heck, Starns went to a team that had not spoken with him much before the draft. 
Paul and Colleen, 
Congratulati on your engagernen t! 

"They tested me in the 40, but I hadn't seen the head co­ach or 'owner at all," said Starns. "I know they're a class organization, and I talked to tM head coach and owner and they're excited about having me." · 
Green was in for a different kind of surprise. The three­year Notre Dame starter had not received a phone call by 8 p.m., when the draft was sup­posed to adjourn for the day. 
"I was sitting here with my head down, and at 8: 15 the tele­phone rang," said Green. "I didn't think it would be any team because I thought it was over for the day. It was the director of player personnel for the Bears, and he told me, 'We're in the fifth round, and we're considering drafting you,' and at that point I hit the ceiling. 
"They put (Bears coach) Mike Ditka on the phone," con­tinued Green. "He was telling me they usually carry five run­ning backs, and they have four runnning backs right now." 

~NfTH/dafa-~systems 
The Office of University Computing cordially invites you to attend a presentation on WordPerfect Word Processing 
Representatives from WordPerfect Corporation will present their newest word processing product, WordPerfect 5.0, and provide campus users with an opportunity to see the latest features and enhancements. Support personnel will be available after each d~monstration for questions and answers on the product. 
Two identical sessions will take place, one in the morning and one in the afternoon. Refreshments will be served. 
Wednesday, April 26, 1989 
9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. 1:30 p.m. to 3:30p.m. Monogram Room, JACC Monogram Room, JACC 
Funding for this Program Underwritten by Zenith Data Systems 
--~--------------------.---------------------------~ 
Draft used as rebuilding tool 
Associated Press 240-pound Jeff Lageman of Vir­Broderick Thomas to Tampa
ginia, considered a second Bay.
NEW YORK--The first round rounder, who instead was the The Pittsburgh Steelers then of Sunday's NFL draft was a shock of the first. He went to let the 15-minute clock run simple matter for the league's the New York Jets with the 14th down to 35 seconds before they downtrodden, who grabbed the pick. did the expected and took run­top eight players and hoped Green Bay, picking second, ning back Tim Worley of Geor­they would work instant took 315-pound offensive tackle gia. San Diego let the clock run miracles. Tony Mandarich of Michigan down to zero before taking
Starting with Troy Aikman, State, rated the top player in Pitt's talented but somewhat the UCLA quarterback signed the draft regardless of position. offbeat defensive end, Burt last week by Dallas for $11.2 Detroit then took Reisman Grossman. million over six years, the first Trophy-winning running back eight picks were no surprises-­Barry Sanders of Oklahoma Chicago, with picks from the players who can provide in­State, the first pure junior ever Raiders for Willie Gault and stant oomph to the downtrod­taken--he was granted Washington for Wilber Mar­den. It was so predictable, it eligibility after his school was shall, picked for need corner­took just 20 minutes for the first placed on probation. back Donnell Woolford of six players to be chosen, a Alabama linebacker Derrick Clemson and defensive end process that has sometimes Thomas went to Kansas City; Trace Armstrong of Florida, taken more than an hour. Florida State cornerback who will be phased in for the 
One of the early linebackers Deion Sanders to Atlanta and aging Dan Hampton and Steve was a huge surprise--6-5 1-2, Nebraska linebacker McMichael. 

"I feel comfortable at both places (tailback and ful­lback)," said Culver. "In high school I played a lot of fullback and tailback, so I'm pretty comfortable at both positions. I just want to play. Whatever I can do to help the team, I'll do." 
Spears gained an impressive 58 yards on 10 carries on Sat­urday, and Johnson compiled a hard-fought 47 yards on nine at­tempts. Rice and Belles con­tributed most of the Blue squad's remaining rushing yards. 
"I think Rodney Culver can play fullback or tailback," said Holtz. "Anthony Johson is the most underrated football player I've been around. lt'was really encouraging to watch Kenny Spears run. He's been coming on during the course of the spring." 
Ricky Watters, who returned to his natural tailback position this spring after spending last season at flanker, also showed up well in the game. The soph­omore picked up 27 yards on seven carries despite great penetration from the Blue de­fensive line. 
"I thought Ricky Watters ran as well as I've ever seen him run," said Holtz. "I always look at how well a guy does when he doesn't have an awful lot of blocking, and I thought Ricky Watters played well. 
"Ricky really had a great spring. Even my wife said to me, 'Boy, he runs different now than he did last fall'. I want to tell you, it's no great sight to be able to see the sun or no great feat of hearing to be able to hear thunder, but if my wife says Ricky Watters improved, then that's really something." 

Backs 
continued from page 16 
I think the depth is starting to come. 
"I feel much better about tailback now than I did prior to spring practice." 
Much of Holtz's enthusiasm can be contributed to the recent play of Culver, who wasted little time in making himself known to the 25,694 fans gath­ered for the annual spring clas­sic. 
Culver, who scored only three touchdowns all of last season, capped a 16-play, SO­yard drive with a 10-yard touchdown run on the first se­ries of the day for the Blue squad. On third-and-goal from the 10, Culver took a pitch from Belles and sprinted the dis­tance to give his team an early 6-0 lead. 
Culver gained 51 yards on nine carries in the first half, including his longest run of the day, an 11-yard scamper up the middle for a first down. 
He also scored on the Blue squad's first possession of the second half, powering through an enormous hole in the middle of the line to give his team an insurmountable 13-0 lead. Cul­ver put the finishing touches on a spectacular day with his third score nine minutes and 16 seconds into the fourth quarter. 
"The line blocked well on a lot of my big runs," said Cul­ver. "On the one going down towards Touchdown Jesus, there was a big hole there and I went in untouched." 
Culver is listed as a fullback on the Irish depth chart, but he has seen action from both back­field positions. With Braxton Banks still recovering from February arthroscopic sur­gery, Culver could very well be the glue that holds the Irish backfield together. 
----&.-=:Y~'-'&.~ --­
-Ih--e-Obse-----~~-­
is accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Ad Designers 
For more information, contact Shannon Roach at 283-2608 or 239-5303 
Water Aerobics Class 
NVA 
Blue 
continued from page 16 
18 plays, scoring on Culver's one-yard run. Rice threw only four passes (completing two) on the drive, which included carries by Culver, Spears, Rice and Anthony Johnson. 
"With the Gold team, it was kind of hard because it was the first time I was playing with a lot of those places," said Rice, who went 3-of-11 passing for 34 yards and an interception and rushed for 48 yards on 11 carries. "It was prety good with the Blue team because that was most of the first team." 
Kent Graham's 41-yard touchdown pass to Ismail with 
2: 20 left in the gam to: foiled the Blue team's shutout attempt. Watters ran three yards around right for a two-point conversion that accounted for the final score of 21-8. 
Ned Bolcar, who made 12 tackles for the Gold, earned de­fensive MVP honors. The Blue's Chris Shey and the Gold's Donn Grimm each had interceptions. 
EXTRA POINTS: At halfime, Holtz handed out winners of Hering Awards for outstanding achievement in spring prac­tice. Grimm won the awar!tfor linebackers, Mike Crounse woh the defensive line award, Todd Lyght took the secondary award, Joe Allen got the offen­sive line award, Ryan Mihalko received the offensive backs award, Rod West won the receivers award and Johnson was the overall spring MVP...Kicker Billy Hackett and punter Jim Sexton played for both teams. Hackett made all three of his extra-point at­tempts and tried no field goals. Sexton averaged 43 yards on five punts...Holtz would not announce whether his second­team quarterback was Graham or Belles after the game. Pete Graham also had an effective spring before get­ting injured ...A pair of defen­sive lineman got chances to run with the ball at the end of the game, with varying degrees of 
success. Chris Zorich fumbled on his only carry, while George "Boo" Williams ran one time for two yards. 
Evenings Monday & Wednesday Time Changed from 6: 45 to 5: 20 We start Mon, April 24th 
Come out and Have a Good Swim 

r-
i 
I 
Monday, April 24, 1989

page 14 The Observer 
Second period helps Bruins 
The Round of 64 
BookStore Tournament Stepan 5
avoid sweep in NHL playoffs 
4:00-Corporate raiders vs. 4 guys who ~ke girls Monday's Games and a Dlllonlte 
Associated Press goal, got his first playoff goal lision with teammate Randy Stepan 1 4:45-Murphy's llt<ln vs. The MephiStophelian 
BOSTON --Cam Neely and Michael Thelven scored in a seven-second span late in the second period as the Boston Bruins avoided a playoff sweep with a 3-2 victory over the Montreal Canadiens Sunday night. 
The Bruins, trying to become the third team in NHL history to win a series after losing the first three games, still trail the best-of-seven Adams Division final3-1. The Canadiens can ad­vance to the Wales Conference finals with a victory at home Tuesday night. 
Brian Hayward started in goal Sunday and Neely beat him to give Boston the lead with his seventh playoff goal at 
14:54 of the second period. It broke a 1-1 tie created by Randy Burridge's first-period goal and Russ Courtnall's un­assisted goal at 3:57 of the second. Each has five playoff goals. 
Neely jammed a five-foot shot between Hayward's pads after Andy Brickley's slap shot went behind the net and came out to Hayward's right. 
Thelven, a defenseman whose error led to Courtnall's at 15:01. 
Bob Sweeney tied up the faceoff after Neely's goal and the puck went to Keith Crowder at the blue line. Crowder passed it to the right point to Thelven, who had no one be­tween him and Hayward. He fired a 40-footer that hit the in­side of the left post and went into the net. 
Brian Skrudland's third playoff goal cut the lead to 3-2 just 12 seconds into the third period. He took a pass from Claude Lemieux on the left side and beat Andy Moog from 40 feet.. 


Flyers 4, Penguins 1 
PHILADELPHIA--Tim Kerr scored two power-play goals in a 2: 21 span of the second period and Philadelphia's defense checked Mario Lemieux and the Pittsburgh Penguins to a standstill Sunday night as the Flyers evened the Patrick Divi­sion finals at two wins each with a 4-1 victory. 
The series returns to Pit­tsburgh for Game 5, but the Penguins may be without Lemieux, the NHL's top scorer, who was helped off the ice early in the third period after a col-Cunneyworth. 
Kerr, who took over the playoff lead in goals with 10, broke a 1-1 tie at 6:57 when he deflected Gord Murphy's 55­foot slap shot past goaltender Tom Barrasso. Kerr then scored his eighth power-play goal of the playoffs at 9: 18, snapping Pelle Eklund's cen­tering pass behind Barrasso from 10 feet. It was Kerr's sixth goal of the series and the Flyers' seventh on the power play. 
Terry Carkner put the game away at 7: 13 of the third period with a shorthanded goal, ban­ging in a rebound after Bar­rasso stopped Dave Poulin's slap shot. 
The Penguins dominated the early going and went ahead just 3: 22 into the game when John Cullen beat goaltender Ron Hextall from between the circles with a wrist shot. But the Flyers took control after the midway point of the first period and tied the score at 
13:24 when Derrick Smith got his own rebound, circled the net and fed Poulin, who rammed the puck past Barrasso from five feet. 
Irish tie for sixth in Spartan Invite 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame men's golf team tied for sixth place out of 16 teams at last weekend's Spartan Invitational at the Fort Akers West Golf Course in East Lansing, Mich. 
Wisconsin won the event with a three-day total of 889, two strokes better than second-place Iowa. Indiana placed third with a total of 895. 
Notre Dame tied Michigan State for sixth with a 915. The Irish shot 304 in the first day, 310 the second day and a 301 the final day. 
Doug Giorgio led Notre Dame with a three-day total of 226 (77 the first day, 76 the (84,74,76), as did Mike Crisanti 
second,  73  the  third).  Pat  
Mohan  followed  with  a  232  
( 7 ~!~175 )Nolta  shot  a  234  

(77,77,85). Mike O'Connell re­corded a 246 (76,87,77). 
Iowa's Jeff Schmid was the
event's medalist with a tournament-record score of 213 
(69,72,72). 

Green captures Greensboro Open 
Associated Press 
GREENSBORO, N.C. --Ken Green made good on his vow to atone for a playoff loss last year, using a final round 72 for a two-shot victory in the $1 mil­lion Greater Greensboro Open tournament Sunday. 
Green, in scoring the fifth victory of his career, finished with a 72-hole total of 277, 11­under par. Before Sunday, his best performance this year was 
an  11th-place  finish  at  the  
Masters.  The  victory  was  
worth $180,000.  


Mishawaka Indian Ridge Plaza (Next to Venture) Hours: Daily 9-8 Grape Rd. Sat. 9-6 2n-7946 Sun. 11-5 


John Huston, playing in the same threesome with Green, finished second at 279 after a closing par 72. He earned $108,000. 
Last year, Green was in po­sition-to win, but he missed a three-foot putt and dropped into a tie with Sandy Lyle, who won a sudden-death playoff. 
After Saturday's third-round 66 thrust him into a two-shot lead over Huston, Green declared himself a favorite of the crowd and said he wouldn't yield to the Forest Oaks Country Club course. True to 

ATTENTION: Grad Students, 
Professors, Employees 

MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Less than 1 0 minutes from campus 
• 
Pool, Clubhouse • locked Intercom entrances

• 
Washer & d<yer '" each ap<Miment • flexible teases 


G-I 
( also -furnished executive suites ) call for details -277-3731 
!QUAl HOUSING
OPPOI!TlJNITY 
~ 
~ 
: 
4:00-Rodan,Sky, & 3 othet...vs. Groundskeepers ot Busch Gardens 4:45-One jerk too many! vs. 5 guys who get their dates drunk... 5:30-Naked gunners vs. Unseeded fertilizer 6:15-Bennitt's buffet...vs. Digger stiffed me a tip... 
Stepan 2 4:00-2 lhird-stringers.. ,vs.. KhOmeni's bounty hunters 4:45-As-Salaam-Aiaikum vs. Slll!li< 5:30• 1ouch-n-go VS, 5 guys WhO play hard 
6:1 s-Rubber Cement vs. Shooting Blanks 
Stepan 3 

4:00-Clockwork orange vs, Gat off our tips 4:45-Lenny'$ American grill Vli.. Medicineinmo­tiot> and... 5:30-Mother Goose vs. Coach'$ 6:15· 1he big dudoo vs, SwlShl'labob 
Stepan 4 4:00-MalicioJ,Js Prostitution vs. Tectles & .the 4 
rips 
4:45-The !elias vs. The cotton club &:30· Kent's getting married vs. GaUChoS 6:15-The gooel,the bad,and the laundry vs. Small but huge meatuses 5:30-No 'I' in team vs. The !acuity jOkes 6:15-Jerry's ktds vs. 4 troopers and a ha~rless wonder 
Stepan 6 4:01).. 4 men and a red-headed stepchild vs, DUke and the dongs 4:45-!'Iipper & the undertows II vs. Allwork's All-stars 5:30-It's all about diSSin' Cous vs. MBA's 6:1$-Air Chek and gro~nd s~pport vs. CJ's P~b 
BOOkstore 9 4~00-Murphy's bar vs. The Bri()!(masons 4:45-Nice but nasty vs. Gurus 5:30' All the Pfesident's Men Ill \tli. f'ire one 
•.· t>:15· Rainmakers vs. Killer Eleoo 
Bookstore 10 4:01).. Fugitive guys finale vs. Chestnut Mousse 
lightning 
4:4$-Train & the fuzzbusters vs. Hoopsters ffom Hell 5:30-Minahoonies vs. Whiskey Alcllard... 6:15-Eddie & the Cruisers vs. Smell the glove 
SUMMER STORAGE 
$18.00 a month 683-1959 MASTJER MDINJI WARJEJHIOUSE US 31 on State Line 
SENIORS 
Senior

up for 
Month? Well, pick up your Senior 
Month Booklet I. n the Senl"or Class Offl"ce, 2nd Floor of LaFortune or Hag-gar Center at SMC to get 
all of the details. 
IS A MONTH REMEMBER! 
This week's activities include: 24 Mon. Free Buffet at Jeremiah Sweeney's, 4-7 pm 25 Tues. Tivolis 26 Wed. Center St. Blues Cafe 27 Thurs. Sean and the Sun Kings at Senor Kelly's, 9 pm 28 Fri. 4th Fri. Lunch at Alumni­Senior Club, 12-2 29 Sat. Free lunch at Alumni-Senior Club picnic sponsored by Alumni Assoc., 12-3 30 Sun. HI's in Michigan, buses leave main circle at 9 pm and 1 0 
pm 

BE A SENIOR, DON'T MISS ANY EVENT! 
his word, he gave little ground and held a five-shot lead with , three holes left. 
Green overcame a bogey 5 on the third hole with birdies at the fifth and ninth for a 35 over the front nine. Huston birdied the par-5 second and was tied with Green at 10-under. 
But Huston, who needed five tries before he could attain his PGA Tour card in 1987, bogeyed the fourth, birdied the fifth and bogeyed the seventh. With Green's aggressive play, Huston couldn't catch up. 

~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Monday, April 24, 1989 
The Observer · page 15 
CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 
4 p.m. Snite Museum of Art Volunteer Recognition reception, 
Museum Courtyard. 
ACROSS 26 Habitat: Comb. 53 Chalk's effacer 55 Biddy
5 p.m. Right to Life, Friends of Janet Smith Mass with Father 1 Quay form 
27 Fat

O'Connor, Sacred Heart Crypt. · 57 Diverted
&Iota 30 l_odge member 60 Impulse
90nagrand
7 p.m. Communication and Theatre film "In A Year of Thir­
scale 33Avoid 62 Verne captain 
teen Moons," Annenberg Auditorium. 
13Correo-34 Planted 63 Linen fabric (Spanish 640af
7 p.m. Adult Children of Alcoholics meeting, Center for Social 35 Party
airmail)
Concerns. 65 Seize
38 Gypsy's card 

14 Big brass item 41 Make cardigans 66 Vocalist in "Stop
9:30 p.m. Communication and Theatre film "Hearts and 15 Verdi heroine 
the Music" 
Minds," Annenberg Auditorium. 42 Montreal nine 
16 Young chicken 67Venomous
44 Pit 

snakes
170pposedLECTURE CIRCUIT 68 Superlative
46·-firma 

18 F-airy-tale word 
47 Overturned a suffix 2 p.m. Catholic Social Teachings symposium presents John 19 Acts silly !Jiass of milk 
69 Scornful sound 
Langan, Professor of Christian Ethics, Georgetown Univer­22 High rails, as in 
48 Govt "cleanup"

sity, Center for Continuing Education. Chi. 
agency 

2:30 p.m. "Moral Criticism as Moral Teaching: Pope John 23 Lithe 51-pink DOWN Paul II's Sollicitudo Rei Socialis," by Leslie Griffin, Notre 24 Endure (healthy) 1 Puckered Dame, CCE. 
pancake 
2 Valorous to Resist the Temptation of an Economic Counterculture," ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 3 Recitative-by Dennis McCann, DePaul University, CCE. 
song mixture 4 Film·spools 
3:30 p.m. "The Unconstrained Vision of Pope John II: How 
4 p.m. "The Conditions of Countercultural Credibility," by ' John Yoder, Notre Dame, CCE. 5 Renounced 6 Jupiter's mate 
7:30 p.m. Keynote address by the Most Reverend Ricardo 25 Cozy corners 39 Sash for a 50 Impassioned
1 Insensitive
Ramirez, Diocese of Las Cruces, New Mexico, CCE. geisha
28 Memorable 52 Door part 8 Contaminate period 40 Part of MTM. 
54 Oak nut 

9-de Cologne 
43 Col. admission MENUS 10 "Shush'" exams 
29 Thong 55 Hip-swaying .. 
dance31 Spotted whale 45 Diva Teresa 56 Greek love god 

9~~tl!!tlll. 11 Object of 
H-=+=4-=f.!~ll!-!=!-worship 32 Time-zone abbr. 
47 Ceremonial 58 Exude12 Fires
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 33 Fleeced dinners at 59-banana 8-=:-1-!~~+=-88~ .14 Sailor Passover
Speidano Romano Roast Beef 35 Wager (burlesque 
lO Circuit; bounds 48 Indigenous bigwig)
Pasta Bar Spaghetti 
36 Cutting tool Alaskan
l1 Beavers' 61 French
Baked Haddock Broccoli Cheese Omlette 
creations 37 Sprout 49 Kitchen utensil connectives
Stir Fried Beef Deli Bar 
COMICS 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
WIIE~E A~E FOR nlt.I-IUNPREPTil 
WE GO\~G ~ 111-\t., WERt Q)\t-¥0 
...---.~"' 11J t>. WEDDING. 
\-¥:)'!{ G£1 ~~ W.£ CAR.. 'iOOR DN)S Wfl..ITING. 
© 1980 Chron1cle Features Distributed by Uruversal Press Synd1cate 

BERKE BREATHED 
BILL WATTERSON 
NO, JELL'{ \)OUGHt-lUIS 
GROSS t<\E OJT. W.EfR£ L\1(£ 
Et>.\1~13 131~1-\\, SQ\l\51-\~ lruG5. 
You BITE 1~\0 T\-IEM MD 
ALL 11-1£\R PURPLE G\JiS 
SPILL OJ\ TilE 01\-\t.R t.~D. 








Sports
page 16 Monday, April 24, 1989 
Culver runs for three touchdowns in Blue victory 

By FRANK PASTOR 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Notre Dame does not have a problem at the tailback position. 
Despite the graduation of three-year starter and tri-captain Mark Green, and the still­uncertain status of Tony Brooks, the Irish return plenty of rushers capable of posting num­bers similar to those of last season's highly­ranked backfield. 
One of those backs, freshman Rodney Culver, carried the ball14 times for 63 yards and three touchdowns Saturday to lead the Blue team to a 21-8 victory over the Gold squad in the Blue­Gold Game. He was named Offensive Most 
Valuable Player for the game. 
ND baseball drops three 

..... 
to MCC foe 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame baseball team suffered a disappointing weekend against MCC East rival Detroit at Coveleski Stadium, losing three out of four to a Detroit team which had not won two in a row since April4. 
The Irish (30-10) split the Sat­urday doubleheader, losing the first game 1-0 and winning the second game 7-2. On Sunday, the Irish were swept, losing the first game 6-3 and the second game 5-4. 
The two losses on Sunday marked the first time Notre Dame had lost two games in a row. 
Head Coach Pat Murphy, however, is not about to make any changes because of the weekend losses. 
"I'm not worried about our ballclub," said Murphy, "I mean, how can you be worried about a ballclub that's 30-10 that's beaten the teams we've beaten? I'm disappointed obvi­ously .because there were three 

Culver's big day highlighted a 237-yard per­formance by the Blue backfield, which also in­cluded freshman Kenny Spears and fullback Anthony Johnson, plus quarterbacks Steve Belles and Tony Rice. 
"I think we'll be all right at tailback," said Head Coach Lou Holtz, who in three years has seen the tailback position develop from one of the team's most glaring weaknesses into one of the top units in the nation. 
"We have a little bit more depth at tailback now," Holtz continued. "If you recall, we're here our first spring and we didn't even have a tailback. We stuck Mark Green back there and played Anthony Johnson there as well, but 
see BACKS I page 13 

The Notre Dame baseball squad dropped three of four games to 
Detroit over the weekend at Covaleski Stadium. The loss dropped 
the Irish to 30-10 on the season. 
games we could have won." Prior to Saturday's 1-0 loss, 
Mter this weekend, the Irish the Irish were 11-0 in games 
now have a 14-4 overall record decided by three runs or less. 
in the MCC, 8-4 in the Eastern All three losses over the 
Division. Detroit, also in the weekend, however, were 
East, has a 6-4 record in the . East. see IRISH I page 11 
Holtz discovers one answer, still searching for the other 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame football team solved one question and left another unanswered as the Blue team won the Blue-Gold Game 21-8 Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Freshman Rodney Culver earned offensive most valuable player honors with 63 yards and three touchdowns on 14 carries. The performances of Culver, Kenny Spears ( 10 carries for 58 yards) and the Gold's Ricky Watters (7-27) left Holtz happy with his tailback situation. 
"I feel good about tailback right now," said Holtz. "<Running backs coach) Jim Strong really is doing a great job with the backs. We're much better at tailback now than prior to spring." 
The same can't be said of the receiving corps. Notre Dame quarterbacks combined to complete just seven of 22 passes and throw four intercep­tions. Most of the interceptions came on deflected passes. 
"Our passing game is behind but not because of Tony (Rice)," said Holtz. "If there's one problem we've got, it's receiver. That's a severe prob­lem right now. 
"We have a problem at split end," Holtz continued. "I think (Pat) Eilers will be solid. We've got to be solid behind him. We have people with tal­ent who haven't progressed. How much progress they make over the summer is critical." 
Starting flanker Raghib "Rocket" Ismail and tight end Derek Brown led the Irish with two receptions each. George Poorman, who had two inter­ceptions as a Blue defensive back, was the only other player with more than one catch. 
The Blue team opened the scoring with an eight-minute, 80-yard touchdown drive in the opening posession. Culver took a pitch and darted 10 yards along the right side for the score. 
Culver, a freshman from Detroit, ran nine times for 51 yards in the first half. 
Steve Belles, who completed ' one of five passes for nine yards and an interception, di­rected a Blue scoring drive that included 14 rushes and just two passes. 
Rice quarterbacked the Gold in the first half, completing one of eight passes for 19 yards and an interception. 
The Blue team also scored on its first series of the second half, after it had taken its 7-0 lead into the intermission. With Belles again at quarterback, the Blue drove 68 yards on nine plays for the score. 
Culver ran two yards through a giant hole to extend the Blue's lead to 14-0. 
Spears, another freshman running back, saw most of the action out of the backfield in the second half. The Atlanta resident responded with three carries for 30 yards on the touchdown drive and a second­half total of seven carries for 46 yards. 
After Poorman intercepted a Kent Graham pass for the Gold team's second turnover, Rice switched to the Blue team and led a 13-minute touchdown drive. 
The Blue drove 80 yards on 
see BLUE I page 13 

Heck leads trio of Notre Dame picks 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 
Andy Heck, whose stock among NFL scouts had grown as much as his size over the past several months, went to the Seattle Seahawks in the 15th overall pick at Sunday's NFL draft. 
Heck, who earned All­America honors at offensive tackle after moving from tight end last fall, becomes Notre Dame's 35th player to go in the first round of an NFL draft. 
"This is a dream come true to me," said the 6-7, 286-pound Heck. "To go this high is un­believable. I couldn't be hap­pier to go to an organization like the Seahawks." 
Other Notre Dame players to receive calls included defen­sive end Frank Starns, who went to the Los Angeles Rams in the second round, and tail­back Mark Green, who went to the Chicago Bears in the fifth round. 
· NFL teams go through the final seven rounds of the draft today. Probable Notre Dame selections include linebacker Wes Pritchett and strong safety George Streeter. 
Most scouting reports had projected Heck to go late in the first round or early in the second. His draft position rose to that level because he had gained 18 pounds since last month's NFL scouting com­bine. 
"At the combine he weighed 268 and now he's 286, so he's putting in the effort you like to see," said Mike Allman, Seattle's director of player per­sonnel, "and he hasn't reached his full maturity yet. He can play at 295 and still can move with the smaller defensive ends. 
"He's got really good feet and will be able to compete well with the pass rushers on the right side." 
Seattle officials also com­mended Notre Dame offensive line coach Joe Moore for con­tributing to Heck's improve­ment. 
"Joe Moore has worked with (Jimbo) Covert, (Mark) May, (Russ) Grimm and (Bill) Fralic, and (Heck) compares very favorably with those 
see DRAFT I page 12 








