
VOL. XXIII NO. 58 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bush prepares for Soviet summit 
Assures European allies of 'no surprises' talks 

Claire Dougherty gets in the spirit of the season as she decorates 
Defense Secretary Richard
her McCandless Hall room with festive holiday creations. 
Cheney will make a decision on
Dougherty is one of many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students 
the service chiefs' proposal
who have spent time and money to spread the holiday cheer. 
when he returns Thursday from 
Czech premier pledges end to communist domination 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush sought to reassure European allies Tuesday about his summit with Soviet Presi­dent Mikhail Gorbachev, promising 'Tm not going to surprise them" with any agreement to cut nuclear weapons or reduce U.S. troops overseas. 
Bush said he and Gorbachev may discuss possible military cutbacks "in a general way" when they meet off the coast of Malta on Saturday and Sunday. 
But he added, "In writing, I have made clear to Mr. Gor­bachev-in my handwriting, so he knows it comes from me, not the bureaucracy -that this is not a summit for arms control agreement." 
Meanwhile, budget con­straints at home are forcing cuts in the U.S. armed services -whatever troop withdrawals are negotiated with the War­saw Pact. As of Nov. 1, there were 2.13 million men and women in the armed services. 
The services have drafted plans for a reduction of 275,000, with about 135,000 to be trimmed from the Army, 100,000 from the Air Force and 40,000 from the Navy and Marines, defense sources told 
The Observer/Lynn Pfeffer 

The Associated Press. 
PRAGUE, Czechoslovakia (AP) -The premier pledged to in­clude non-Communists in a new government, and new Commu­nist Party chief Karel Urbanek said Tuesday the party would give up its constitutional monopoly on power. 
Premi-er Ladislav Adamec made his pledge in a meeting with the opposition Civic Forum movement after 11 days of un­pn~cedented protest. Millions of workers observed a two~hour general strike Monday, but the streets were quiet Tuesday be­cause the Civic Forum asked for calm. 
After the meeting, govern­ment minister Marian Calfa said Adamec would submit a coalition government to Presi­dent Gustav Husak by Sunday and would ask Parliament, which meets Wednesday, to delete the guarantee of a forces. 
Bush said it was very impor­tant for the allies to know ''I'm not going to go off and prema­turely jump out there and try to grandstand by committing them to something. That's not the way you keep an alliance strong." 
After the two-day summit, Bush will fly to Brussels on Dec. 4 to brief NATO leaders on the discussions. 
The allies were aghast to learn in 1987 that then-Presi­dent Reagan and Gorbachev had come close to a deal at a summit in Reykjavik to abolish all nuclear weapons in spite of the fact that NATO regards some of those arms as vital to deter Soviet attack. 
Now, with the collapse of hard-line communist regimes in Eastern Europe, and massive budget deficits in the United States, the Bush administration is considering major cutbacks in troops and weapons. 
Gorbachev is facing similar pressures at home. 
AP However, Bush said, "There 
are no arms control proposals" 
a NATO meeting in Brussels, for the summit. 
Belgium, and reports to Presi-"So the surprise will be, if 
dent Bush. you're looking for a surprise, The sources, declining to be there won't be a surprise. That 
identified, said Richard Dar-may come as a surprise," he 
man, the director of the presi­said. 
dential Office of Management He said there had been 
and Budget, was pushing for 
even deeper cuts in the armed see SUMMIT 1page 4 
"leading role" for the party from the constitution. 
Hours later, party chief Karel Urbanek told 3,500 party ac­tivists in Prague the "future of the party requires giving up the monopoly of power," the offi­cial news agency CTK reported. 
Urbanek. elected Friday in a major reorganization of the party leadership, said Saturday he favored a broad-based coali­tion government. 
Central Committee spokesman Josef Hora said Urbanek would visit Moscow after the U.S.-Soviet summit off Malta this weekend. 
Civic Forum spokesman Jiri Kanturek appeared on state television's evening news with a 10-point statement outlining concessions made and further opposition demands. 
Two demands were for free elections and the resignation by Dec. 10 of Husak, a central fig­ure in the crackdown on reform after the Soviet-led invasion of August 1968. 
At a news conference, promi­nent dissident Jiri Dienstbier read a letter saying Husak's resignation "would calm the si­tuation." 
see CZECH I page 4 
WASHINGTON (APJ -Presi­dent Bush on Tuesday signed a bill authorizing $938 million in 
U.S. aid over three years to Poland and Hungary, saying the political reforms there have "stirred the imagination of the world." 
Bush signed the legislation as he prepared to send off to Poland a presidential delega­tion whose leaders cautioned that Poles and other Eastern Europeans may be in for some hard winters before economic changes can catch up with po­litical reform. 
"We must be careful that economic expectations do not become unrealistic. In the kind of emotional environment that exists today. that can very readily occur," said Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter, who heads the mission of govern­ment, business, labor and other leaders for a four-day visit. 
Yeutter said he was carrying with him to Poland an addi­tiona! $20 million installment in 
U.S. food aid. 
The legislation, providing more aid to the two East bloc nations than Bush had re­quested, includes programs for Poland with a value of $846.5 million. Hungary would receive benefits with a total value of $91.5 million. 
Bush in a statement called the measure "a major and positive step in bipartisan foreign pol­icy." 
"We are nearing the end of a year that future generations will remember as a watershed, a year when the human spirit was lifted and spurred on by the bold and courageous ac­tions of two great peoples, the people of Poland and Hungary," Bush said. 
Labor Secretary Elizabeth Dole promised help in retrain­ing displaced Polish workers. And Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher said he would plumb trade and invest­ment opportunities. 
Yeutter and his colleagues were pessimistic on short-term prospects for improved condi­tions either in Poland or in its fast-changing East bloc neigh­bors. 
"Economic reform is not an overnight proposition. It will take time. It would be tragic indeed if all the magnificent emotion of the moment is channeled into frustration," Yeutter told a White House news briefing. 
Mrs. Dole, who with her hus­band Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole visited Poland last August, predicted a period of "some pain" as Poland move'S from a state-owned economy to a market economy. 
"There'll be a loss of jobs for some people. Also, as subsidies are removed from certain ar­eas, there will be an increase in prices," the labor secretary said. 
Murderer of ND alumna sentenced to 32 1/2 years 
NEW YORK (AP) -The Notre Dame, winning the JUan convicted of killing Beardsley Award for her Notre Dame graduate Judith work in oil painting. Anne Wrappe just days after Police said DeChirico was she moved to New York was out on parole since 1986 sentenced Monday to 32-1/2 after serving 13-1/2 years years to life in prison. for manslaughter. From 
"I must tell you. this is a 1986 until the time of the case where if a death penalty mugging, police said, he was were permissible I would im­arrested nine other times on pose it," state Judge Phillip charges that included rob­Lagana told Frank bery, drug possession, grand DeChirico, 39. larceny and burglary. 
DeChirico was convicted At the time of the robbery, last month of fatally shoot­police deputy Inspector ing Wrappe, 24, of Little Charles Prestia said of Rock, Ark., in a Sept. 14, DeChirico, "He is a local 
I ~988 street hold-up near crack addict who spends a Rratt Institute's campus in lot of time on the street. Wethe borough of Brooklyn. believe the robbery was for Wrappe graduated from the purpose ofgetting money Notre Dame in May of 1988 for drugs." with a bachelor of fine arts DeChirico stole $27 in the in art studio. She was robbery, police said. preparing to start graduate He was sentenced to 25 studies at Pratt Institute, ac­years to life on each of two 
cording to Dennis Moore, murder charges and 12-1/2 assistant director of public to 25 years for robbery. relations at Notre Dame. She He will not be eligible for 
..}~as a.ctive in art while at parole until age 75 . 
Bush signs bill pledging $938 M in U.S. aid to Poland and Hungary 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

NO-Hurricane 
series brings 
out fans' worst 
Some football rivalries seem to bring out the worst in people. Fans aren't satisfied to watch the game. They hurl insults at the oppo­nent's fans. This is especially true in the Orange Bowl. 
Miami is not a friendly place to be if --------­you're a Notre Dame fan and the Irish are playing the Hurricanes. The Orange Bowl crowd can be downright hostile -and it was Saturday. 
Some Hurricane fans were more than rude; they were abusive. Several dozen took the trouble to come to a section of Notre Dame supporters to yell obscenities. Others just shouted from their seats. 
There is a diiTerence between supporting one's team and berating the opponent. Cheers need not refer to the mother of someone in the neighboring section. 
Fans of the Fighting Irish aren't always exemplary. The anti-Hurricane T-shirts that appeared before last year's Miami game were classless. Billing the game as "Catholics vs. Convicts" is not right. Neither are the four-letter replies Miami students had on their shirts. Both sides have shown a lack of class in this series. 
The hatred is so strong that a record crowd of 81,634 packed the Orange Bowl to see the game. There is no lost love between these teams -or their fans. 
Chris Rings, sports editor of the Miami Hurricane, told The Observer that the Orange Bowl isn't usually so jammed. "No one ever gets this wild for other games. It's just that everyone hates Notre Dame." 
Before the game, a tailgating Miami fan called my attention to a roast pig wearing an N.D. cap. The fan said, "Look what we did to your coach. We fried his a-!" 
Farther down the block, two middle-aged 
women cussed me out when they saw my 
Notre Dame shirt. Other Hurricane fans 
and their children uttered boos and more 
forceful disapprovals. 
After the game, a drunk Miami fan went 
down to field level to yell obscenities at Irish 
Quarterback Tony Hice. The obviously spir­
ited 'Canes fan spewed forth more than 
words, on fans from both sides. 
The Hurricanes got their so-called revenge. Next year, it's our turn. Fortunately, the series won't resume until at least 2004. But the hatred will remain. Irish fans don't forget defeat easily; that's what started this grudge series in the first place. 
Notre Dame hosts the 'Canes and their 
fans on Oct. 20, 1990. While nobody expects 
N.D. to roll out _a red carpet, Irish fans should have the class not to return rudeness with discourtesy. 
Miami fans, meanwhile, face a dilemma: the Hurricanes can't win the national championship this season unless Notre Dame beats Colorado in the Orange Bowl. Now that's something to cheer for. 


P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, lndtana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Tuesday's  Staff  
Accent  VIewpoint  
Paige A. Smoron  Kim Skiles  
Barbara Bryn  News  Colleen Stepan  

Florentine Hoelker John O'Brien 

Ad Design Theresa E. KellyShannon Roach Systems Mindy Breen Tim Quinn 
Production
Jeanne Naylor Tim Kiefer Chris Labaree Quinn Statepanhoodle Gregnce 
Sports Wednesday 
Molly Mahoney 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) IS published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vaca11on penods The Observer IS a member ol lhe Assoc1aled Press All reproductiOn nghts are reserved 
The Observer Wednesday, November 29, 1989 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Wednesday, November 29. Lines show high temperatures. 
20 

WORLD 
When President Bush and Mikhail Gorbachev phone home from their Malta summit this weekend, electronic spies nearby will record the transmissions and save them for years in hope of one day cracking the codes. No matter how friendly their relations, both leaders will bring their best eavesdroppers, electronic equipment, encoding machines and countermeasure experts to the Mediterranean rendezvous, according to knowledgeable officials and observers. 
Taking liver segments from healthy adult~ ~nd putting them into dying children can ease a cnhcal shortage but the gains cannot be justified if they come at the donors' expense, surgeons said Tuesday. "The major thing is what's the risk to the donor," said Dr. Barry Kahan, president of the American Society of Transplant Surgeons and director of transpl.antation at the University of Texas at Houston, who was moni­toring the nation's first living-donor liver transplant. 
The Vatican on Tuesday suggested establishing permanent ties with the Kremlin on the eve of the first visit by a Soviet leader. President Mikhail Gorbachev arrives Wednesday for a state visit before meeting with Pope John Paul II on Friday and then flying on to Malta for his summit meeting with President Bush. 
The Lebanese government firnd Michel Aoun as army commander Tuesday, and the Syrians sent more troops and tanks for a possible showdown with the stubborn Christian general who has tried to drive them out of Lebanon. Aoun docs not recognize new President Elias llrawi, a Maronite Catholic like himself. and has refused to leave the shell-battered presidential palace at Baabda, east of Beirut. Syria, which had 40,000 soldiers in Lebanon before the reinforcements, supports Hrawi. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Yesterday's high: 34 Yesterday's low: 29 Nation's high: 87 (Fort Myers, Fla.) Nation's low: -12 (Fargo, N.D.) 
Forecast: Mostly sunny and cold 
today with increasing cloudiness, high in the upper 20s. Mostly cloudy and warmer tonight, tem­peratures steady in the upper 20s. Partly sunny and much warmer Thurs­day, high in the lower 
40s . 

©1989 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
NATIONAL 
Andrew Young doesn't play up 
Consumers will see 1990 food prices rise at the milestone victories of two black a much slower pace as farmers continue expanding candidates in New York City and Vir­crop production, a senior Agriculture Department ginia, but he does share one strategy economist predicted Tuesday. "The 1990 food outlook in his quest to become governor of Ge­calls for larger supplies and lower prices," said James orgia -he rarely mentions race. Donald, chairman of the department's World Agricul­There's little doubt race will be a fac­tural Outlook Board. "Hecord meat produetion. bigger tor in many voters' minds next sum­crops and slowing inflation will hold the retail food mer as they size up Young, who is fin­prices increase to 3 percent to 5 percent in 1990." ishing eight years as Atlanta's mayor. Food prices this year are rising nearly 6 percent, the Some pundits already have predicted he will fail in his sharpest annual increase since 1981. bid to become the state's first black governor. 
A ·federal commission overestimated by 
$169 million the savings that the government will real­
ize annually from closing or realigning 15 military 
bases nationwide, a lawmaker said Tuesday. Hep. 
Some farmers are still gouging the government James Saxton, R-N.J., said a study by the General Ac­by collecting crop subsidies in excess of limits set by counting Office found that the shutdown or scaling Congress, the Agriculture Department's watchdog back of 15 bases-including Fort Dix in New Jersey, agency said Tuesday. In one case, the department's Of­Chanute Air Force Base in Illinois and the Presidio in fice of Inspector General said, an individual collected California -will result in $453 million in savings in­about $2.8 million in subsidies, 56 times the $50,000 stead of the $622 million per year estimated by the limit set by law. commission. 
OF INTEREST MARKET UPDATE ALMANAC 
On November 29: 

Closings for November 28, 1989 
eln 1864: A Colorado militia
On-campus mail must be dropped at the 
mail room in the Administration Building to 
killed at least 150 peaceful 
Cheyenne Indians in what be­
prevent being charged postage. 
Volume in shares 
came known as the Sand Creek 
Massacre.

Iceberg Debate applications are due 
153.77 Million 
eln 1929: Navy Lt. Cmdr.
Dec. 10. Anyone interested in representing their 
dorm should contact the president of their hall. A 
Hichard Byrd radioed that he'd 
debate workshop will be held Dec. 3 from 7 to 9 
made the first airplane flight
NYSE Index
p.m. in Library Auditorium. 
over the South Pole. 

191.34 {t 0.21 
eln 1947: The U.N. General 
S&P Composite 
Assembly passed a resolution
HPC Family Focus presents this week's 345.77 {t 0.16 
calling for the partitioning of
discussion on Single Parent Families tonight in Dow Jones Industrials 
Palestine between Arabs and
Keenan at 7:30p.m. 2,702.01 {t 7.04 
Jews. 

eln 1964: The Homan Catholic
Precious Metals
Of Interests may be submitted to The Ob­
Church in the U.S. instituted
Gold {t $0.10 to $413.50 I oz.
server office on the third floor of LaFortune be­
sweeping changes in the liturgy, 
tween 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. weekdays. Of Interests Silver {t 2.0¢ to $5.695 I oz. 
including the use of English in­
are free, one-time events of interest to the stu­
stead of Latin. 

Source: AP
dent body in general. 
Pressure
®© 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Wednesday, November 29, 1989 The Observer page 3 
ND to host conference on coping with divorce/death 
The idea for a conference to help participants deal with loss and its possibilities was initi­ated two years ago, Sullivan said. The initial conference dealt largely with problems as­sociated with death, but some participants came to conquer the loss felt by divorce, she said. 
Pat Heynolds, a counselor and Saint Mary's graduate, initiated the program two years ago. This year, shn is a presenter fo­cusing on the death of a loved one. 
In conjunction with the Year of the Family, the program was revamped to focus on divorce as a more prominent form of loss. The program was also de­signed to "encompass all mem­bers of the family," Sullivan said, by targeting students, faculty, staff, alumni, and community residents as poten­tial participants. 
The second presenter is ND graduate Jim Faught, a lawyer who specializes in divorce and the family. He is the assistant dean at Loyola School of Law, and was divoreed in 1982. 
Sister Jean Lenz will serve as a faeilitator during the eonfer­enee. Lenz, assistant vice presi­dent for Student Affairs, "will offer guidance" to help partici­pants reaeh their goals, Sulli­van said. 
The Notre Dame Alumni As­soeiation/Alumni Continuing Education is sponsoring the conference along with the Cen­ter for Continuing Education and the Year of the Family. This has helped defray the cost, which is $25 for students. 

By MONICA YANT News Writer 
Coping with pPrsonal loss and moving on with life after tragedy an~ topics for an up­coming weekend ronfPrence d1~aling with death and divorce. 
Tlw ronfnn~nrn. to be lwld Dnr. 1-3 is entitled. "Death. Di­vorce, and Dismantled Dreams." 
Participants will explorP grin!' through group discussion and by n~lating personal experi­ences. Professional presenta­tions will guide them in d1~aling with the past and moving on to tlw future, said Kathleen Sulli­van. director of Alumni Con­tinuing Education. 
Forty partidpants have regis­tered for the weekend-long con­ference. including 6 students. Sullivan said that students ran still register by contacting her office. "We wouldn't deny somebody (th11 chance to attend tlw ronferenee)." she said. 
"I think the merit of the pro­gram is the p1wr ministry." Sul­livan said. She said she sees thP goal of the wm~kend as pro­viding "solace and hope in an atmosphere of community and service." 
Sullivan said she encourages students to participate even though the time commitment is large. "You have to trust that it's (the weekend) going to ben­dit your life," she said. 
Although people might be ap­prelwnsive of a weekend of ex­ploring personal emotions, Sul­livan said that the weekend could be "a turning point in their lives." 
LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Toke a lifesaving Red Cross CPR course.
+AmericanRed Cross 
Juniors Juniors Juniors 
Your parents could be staying on campus for Junior Parents' Weekend. 
Today is the lastdayto register for the Morris Inn Lottery from 6-9 p.m. in Room 108 in LaFortune. 
Any questions? Call Maryann x2855 or Steve x3131 
Juniors Juniors Juniors 

What remains of the roof 
The Observer/John Cluver Only this twisted pile of steel and rubble remains of what used to be the roof of St. Michael's Laundry. With the debris from the roof out of their way, investigators can now concentrate on determining the cause of the blaze. 
ND receives equipment for study of cosmic rays of star Cygnus X3 
By SANDRA WIEGAND News Writer 
Equipment recently installed north of the University may cause a breakthrough in the study of cosmic rays, according to John Poirier, professor of physics at Notre Dame. 
The machinery will collect in­formation about the cosmic rays of the star Cygnus X3, which is located about 37,000 light years away from earth. 
Cosmic rays are "rays of high-energy elementary parti­cles which reach the earth from outer space" said a press re­lease about the study. 
Scientists believe these rays are gamma rays because they travel in a straight path from the star to the earth, and are not bent by magnetic fields in space, the release said. 
According to an article in the September issue of Discover magazine, the magnetic field of Cygnus X-3 "generates a pow-
Happy 19th Birthday (11-29-89) 
Love. 
Mom. Dad. Erin. David. & Susan 

erful electric field that fires cosmic ray protons into space." 
Some protons eollide with gas nuclei near the double star, generating gamma rays that shoot straight to earth. The showers... point straight to the source, like showers triggered by gamma rays, but they con­tain a lot of muons, like show­ers triggered by protons, ac­cording to the Discovery article. 
The presence of a great num­ber of muons, evident through recent experimental data, has presented questions about the rays. 
"It may mean that the laws of physics operate somewhat dif­ferently at very high energies," said Poirier in the press re­lease, "or there is the possibility that the radiation from Cygnus contains an exotic new, uncharged particle we haven't yet discovered." 
Poirier's interest in the mys­tery spawned Project GRAND (Gamma Ray Astrophysics at 
THE ROOF THE ROOF 
THE ROOF IS ON 
Notre Dame). 

GRAND is behind the installa­tion of research equipment near Notre Dame which will "record the tracks of cosmic rays with a very high resolution of angle ... and trace the paths of muons as well." according to the release. 
The equipment consists of "stacked... flat chambers filled with argon gas and a grid of very fine wires." 
Poirier said construction of the equipment began about two years ago, and was completed and receiving its first data two weeks ago. He said preliminary results would be used primarily to prove that the machine was working. 
Poirier hopes to have the field of about 100 yards square filled with chambers within two years. He predicted that solid conclusions from the data will come one to two years after the full field of equipment is in­stalled. 
"I think that this mystery is a really big thing," said Poirier, "that its resolution will have a great impact on astrophysics." 
FIRE 



page 4 
Summit 
continued from page 1 
"frantic speeulation" and 
"hyp1~d speculation" that the 
superpowPrs would reach a 
d1~al on arms or troops. 
"Now if we want to talk in a 

general way with the Soviet 
leaders about our aspirations 
for how a defense system will 
look 10 years from now, of 
course, we'II do that, we want 
to do that," Bush said. 
In particular. Bush said, he 

would like to talk with the Sovi­
ets about eurtailing their de­
fense spending. 
"But that's not what I'm re­

ferring to when I talk about 
euphorie expectations of some 
deal," Bush said. "There isn't 
going to be such a deal. It takes 
two to make a deal." 
Separately, the State De­

partment said the United States 
has little interest in a possible 
Soviet proposal to restrict 
naval power. 
"The Soviet Union, a land 

power. would be less con­
strained by sueh proposals." 
said State Department 
spokeswoman Margaret 
Tutwiler. "W1~ are not aware of 
naval arms control measures 
that enhance stability." 
Despite criticism at home that he has reacted too cau­tiously to changes sweeping I·:astern Europe, Bush said his approach was solidly supported by NATO leaders. 
Saying he had consulted with each NATO chief, Bush said, "I don't want to sound self-cen­tered here but almost every one of those leaders told me, 'We think the United States is han­dling this properly. W11 appre­ciate thn way you're handling thnse changns, the prudent ap­proach you arc taking.'" 
Moreover. Bush said, it should be the people of Eastern Europe who lead the way to­ward change. "It doesn't come from somPbody halfway across tlw world dictating how fast change should be or what change should encompass." 
Bush also promised that he would press Gorbachev at the summit over the behavior of Moscow's CPntral American al­lies -Cuba and Nicaragua, which the United States accuses of shipping Soviet-made weapons to leftist insurgents. 
The pn~sident said he was asked in a telephone call from Costa Hican President Oscar 

For the facts call }Our kxal Red Cross. or wn<e· AIDS 
+
Am<rican Red Cross ~ 'MIShlngwn. DC 20006 

Past Summits 
1955 Geneva 
Eisenhower and Bulganin 

with the leaders of England and 
France 
1959 Camp David 

Eisenhower and Khrushchev 
1960 Paris 

Khrushchev & Eisenhower; 
meeting collapses due to 
American U2 incident 
1961 Vienna 

Kennedy and Khrushchev 
1967 Glassboro, New Jersey 
Johnson and Kosygin 
1972 Moscow 
Nixon and Brezhnev 
1974 Moscow 
Nixon and Brezhnev 
197 4 Vladivostok 
Ford and Brezhnev 
1975 Helsinki 
Ford and Brezhnev meet during 35-nation conference 
1979 Vienna 
Carter and Brezhnev 
1985 Geneva 
Reagan and Gorbachev 
1986 Reykjavik 
Reagan and Gorbachev 
1987 Washington 
Reagan and Gorbachev 
1988 Moscow 
Reagan and Gorbachev 
1988 New York 
Reagan, Bush and Gorbachev meet during U.S. visit 
'-----....:;________A__.P 
Arias to ask Gorbachev to 
"stop feeding Fidel Castro." 
Arias has spearheaded a drive 
for a regional peace aceord in 
Central t\rneriea. 
Bush said the Soviets have 
not cut off arms deliveries to 
Cuba. 
"And as Mr. Arias said, there is one person most responsible for support of the FMLN (leftist rebels) to deny democ­racy to Central America, deny democracy to El Salvador, and that is Fidel Castro," Bush said. He said Arias mentioned Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega in the same connection. 
~need someone with theronfidenceofa~ 
thededicationoC amarathonerand the rourage ofanexplorer. 
We need a ~cc= Corp<io v()luntecr Call us 11 1-800-424-SSSO, Ext. 9l 

~-i '6f~·:.. 'L 

AP Photo 
A Prague couple walks in a downtown street Monday night, when thousands strolled through this city after a two-hour general strike called by the opposition movement in their struggle for freedom. 
Czech 
continued from page 1 
The Civic Forum, and the al­lied Public Against Violence in Slovakia. also demanded revi­
sion of the official view that the "Prague Spring" reforms of 1968 were worthless. 
Czechoslovakia should urge the Soviet, East German and Bulgarian parliaments to follow those of Poland and Hungary in condemning the 1968 invasion by the five Warsaw Pact countries as "a violation of international norms and the Warsaw Treaty itself," Kan­turek said on television. 
llis two-minute appearance was the first opportunity for Civic Forum to make its case on a national television news pro­gram. 
Kanturek said Adamec promised to seek access to state-run media for the opposi­tion, and permission to publish its own journals. The premier also said he would try to obtain the release by Dec. 1 0 -Inter­
national Human Bights Day ­of political prisoners named by Civic Forum, he reported. 
Dienstbier told the news con­ference a list of 30 political prisoners had been submitted, with the right reserved to add more names. 
.liF£8 ABEACH." 
I filii flu floodm/11 ""/t1l1111111111n tlfi/11111111/h 1011 11 /t'UI'/1 q humin'fJ, ltml!d''' /flfll/1 mot "fit HI "if•llll'lllllf'/llhi'{JI t(lllrmqhl/1!/w 1/.Jmmnl 
~t=+ 

On television, Kanturnk said 
the government should urge 
Parliament to adopt nnw laws 
guaranteeing free 1~lections and 
freedom of speech. press, 
assembly, association and rnli­
gion, and to abolish the Peo­
ple's Militia, the Communist 
Party paramilitary force. 
"If the public is not satisfiPd 
with the IH~w program, the Civic 
Forum and Publie Against Vio­
lence will ask for tlw pn~mier's 
resignation," Kanturnk said. 
lie coneluded with an appeal to Czechoslovaks to work peacefully while remaining on alert to strike if necessary. lie said students and actors still on strike probably would end their sit-ins in a day or so, but that Civic Forum would support them if they continw~d. 
In Washington, Stat1~ De­partment spokeswoman Mar­garet Tutwiler said: "We ap­plaud Civic Forum for its 
commitment to pearPful trans­formation to democracy." 
Urbanek said without being specific that many points in the Civic Forum program were ac­ceptable. Differences exist, lw said. but "we shall have to get 
r-------":"':~~:-:''=":""':~"""'=~~~--------.
WOMEN • MEN 
A 4 hour walk-in test is being conducted by the Federal Aviation Administration at the following location: 
IUSB Northside Hall, Room 104, Northside Blvd. South Bend, Indiana December 2, 1989 at 9:00am 
Starting salary $19,493 with potential to $60,000. Aviation 
experlencs Is not required! Excellent training, benefits and 
retirement plans. Must be under the age of 31 and a U.S citizen. 

usPd to making polities not just 
with those who agnw with us," 
CTK n~ported. 

Among demands he found 
"totally UIHlCCPptabln" were 
disbanding tlw People's Militia 
and getting the party out of the 
workplace. 

CTK said lw fa vorPd a re­
evaluation of 19(>H as "a part 
of rPgaining pPopl~~·s trust in 
tlw party." 

Calfa, a ministPr without portfolio, told a nPws ronfPr­PJH'P tlw coalition would bP "a govPrnment constitutPd primarily of experts and profPssionals'' including Communists, nwmhers of otlwr parties traditionally alliPd to tlw ruling Communists. and outside figures. lie did not nwntion fn~n elections. 
Whetlwr Civic Forum rPprP­sPntatives would be among tlw non-Communists in tlw gov­ernmPnt was not clear, and Calfa did not indicatP how many non-Communists tlwrP would lw. 
BannPd playwright Vadav llavPI. tlw rountry's most promirwnt dissidPnt. IPd tlw opposition dPIPgation Ttu>sday. 

[p!flj~~ ®!JU@~® !).jmJ!PJ ll!fll1).1 !M®!fJ@!fll Ift£1 IJO@!M 


Wednesday, November 29, 1989 The Observer 
AP Photo 

West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl (front right), Chancellery Minister Rudolf Seiters, Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher and Information Minister Hans Klein during the budget debate in the Bonn Bun­destag Tuesday where Kohl addresses a "three-step plan" with reunification of Germany as the ultimate goal. 
Kohl proposes new German federation 
BONN. West Germany (APJ -and made it clear it could take structures in Europe," Kohl ChanrPIIor Helmut Kohl Tues­years to form a federation. lie told Parliament. day proposed a German federa­is expected to discuss his pro­"We are prepared ... to de­tion as part of a sweeping plan posals with East German lead­velop confederative structures to rPunite the two countries ers at a summit next month. between the two states in Ger­after four decades of post-war East German government many in order to create a fed­division. spokesman Wolfgang Meyer eration, a federal state in Ger­
l~ast Germany has increas­said Kohl's plan in general pro­many." ingly discussed the possibility vided "interesting starting A federation is a union of of a confederation. but the points for negotiations." states with a central govern­Communist nation's leader, But writer Stefan Ileym and a ment; a confederation is an al­J.:gon Knmz. ruled out any talk number of other East German liance of independent nations of rnunifkation. artists, clerics and intellectuals for a common purpose. 
"A unity of Germany isn't on rejected reunification, saying Kohl also said reunification tlw agPnda," Krenz told West they opposed their country must be "bedded in the pan-Eu­(;prmany's AHD-TV rwtwork in "being pocketed" by West Ger­ropean process and in East­insisting on tlw continued exis­many. The group said it would West relations. The future tPncP or two "sovereign, inde­start a petition drive in support structure of Germany must fit J>PildPnt GPrnHtn states." of its appeal. into the whole architecture of 
Tlwn~ arn rears among Euro­Kohl's proposals were the Europe as a whole." pPans in tlw East and the West most thorough delineation he lie said his proposal could about tlw political and eco­has made yet of his vision of only be carried out if East nomic power of a reunified ending the division of Germany Germany holds free elections, Cermany with HO million people. imposed after World War II. as it has promised. 
Kohl. in a speech to Parlia­Earlier, Hans-Jochen Vogel, The chancellor proposed cre­nwnt, sought to allay those the leader of the opposition So­ation of joint governmental and fpars, saying: "The Germans ... cial Democrats, proposed an parliamentary committees for will be a dividend for a Europe eventual confederation as a "permanent consultation" be­that is coming together. and step toward unity. tween the Germanys. nPvPr again a threat." In the past. the Social He also suggested such 
The UnitPd States favors re­Democrats. have cautioned committees to deal with eco­unification, and State Depart­against hastening toward Ger­nomic, environmental. cultural mPnt spokeswoman Margaret man reunification; some in the and scientific matters, and he Tutwiler rniterated that posi­leftist party have flatly opposed said they could be set up soon tion in Washington on Tuesday. it. after free elections in East Tlw Soviet Union has said the "We are now standing at the Germany. idPa is "dangerous and unreal­start of a new period in Euro­Kohl said West Germany is istic." pean and German history, ape­prepared to offer "concrete as­
Kohl said he had no timetable riod that points beyond the sta­sistance" to embattled East in mind to carry out his ideas tus quo or the hitherto political Germany. 

IJO!JYj)~~ ®~®® o 11 ~®® wrJ!JU~mJ~ fl!}{](jj}mJ®o mJ@W} $)@ !}JfL!£1©~~ @~t£1©@ml @@wr!!L 
page 5 
Log reveals fissure in downed Colombian jet 
BOGOTA, Colombia (AP) -Wreckage was spread over The pilot's log of a jetliner that six miles, but most was within crashed with no survivors indi­an area about two miles long in cates a three-inch fissure was grassy hills south of Bogota. found in the fuselage three days A spokesman for the Colom­before the plane exploded in the bian Pilots Association told The air, a Bogota newspaper re­Associated Press on Monday ported Tuesday. night: "Given the circumstances 
The 26-year-old Avianca air­of the crash, I would say that it lines Boeing 727 carried 101 was a terrorist attack." passengers and six crew mem­An Avianca pilot said the bers when it exploded Monday crew probably would have spot­morning, five minutes after ted trouble in advance if me­taking off from Bogota on a chanical failure had caused the domestic flight to Cali. accident. 
A woman who answered the Both pilots asked to remain telephone at Avianca's public anonymous so their jobs would relations office refused com­not be put in jeopardy. ment on the El Tiempo report and would not identify herself. On Monday, the Civil Aviation 
El Tiempo gave no further Authority said no problems had details, but a spokesman for been reported by the plane's the paper said policemen had crew. found the log. Scores of po­Lesmes said a flight recorder licemen were involved in of cockpit· conversation was searching the wreckage Mon­found, but another instrument day. recording flight data still was 
Col. Edgar Lesmes, assistant missing. director of the Civil Air Author­Caracol's Bogota station said ity, said the agency did not have Tuesday it believed a telephone the log and was trying to de­call claiming drug traffickers termine whether it had been blew up the plane may have found. been a hoax. 
"The only thing we have been Three hours after the crash, able to establish is that there a man called the station and was an in-flight explosion for said the Extraditables, refer­unknown reasons," he said in ring to drug traffickers who an interview with the Caracol could be extradited to the radio network. United States, were responsible.
He said investigators have Station executives decided the found no trace of explosives or call may not have been authen­explosive devices in the wreck­tic because the man was bab­
age. bling and emotional, a 
Col. Jorge Gonzalez, the spokesman for Caracol said agency's chief of operations, privately. told a news conference oxygen Investigators from the U.S. masks had dropped from the Drug Enforcement Administra­overhead consoles. That is au­tion have found no evidence tomatic in a case of pressure that drug eartels were respon­loss, and would occur if an ex­sible, Justice Department plosion ripped a hole in the spokesman Daniel Eramian cabin. said in Washington. 
Endowed academic chairs filled by seven ND faculty 
Special to The Observer Thomas Mueller, Roth-Gibson professor of aerospace engi­
Seven University of Notre neering. Dame faculty members have William Gray, Massman pro­been installed in endowed aca­fessor of civil engineering. demic chairs: 
Alasdair Macintyre. McMa­Ruey-wen Liu, Frank M. hon-Hand professor of philos­Freimann professor of electri­ophy. cal and computer engineering. 
Arvind Varma, Arthur J. John Keane, Martin J. Gillen Schmitt professor of chemical dean of the College of Business engineering. Administration and Howard J. 
and Geraldine F. Korth profes­sor of strategic management. 
Barry Lopez, visiting W. Harold and Martha Welch pro­fessor of American studies. 
There are 58 endowed chairs fully funded and occupied at Notre Dame. There are another 47, either in some state of funding or fully funded and for which a national search for a chair holder is now being con­ducted. 
"THE tDDI.EST KIDS... 

&W®~® rPOO@!JYiJ !JYiJ!£10ml ©OOO©!L~ ~ 
@~@@ ~ @~$)@ 
...-------....-----------~~-­
page 6 The Observer Wednesday, November 29, 1989 

Getting Comfortable With a Zenith Laptop Now 


Can Make for a Comfortable Future in the Real World 
Zenith Puts the Power of a Desktop in Your Lap 
For More Details Contact 
Notre Dame Computer Store Office of University Computing Math/Computer Building 239-7477 Mon. Fri. 9 -5 
Wednesday, November 29, 1989 The Observer page 7 
Toppled crane kills 5, injures 21 in San Fran. Class 
SAN FHANCISCO (AP) -A crane tipped over and plummeted from the 16th story of a building under construc­tion Tuesday, flattening a school van, crushing several ears and smashing into an of­fice building across the street. At least five people were killed, 21 injured and five left missing, authorities said. 
Concrete and twisted steel rained on one of the busiest in­tersections in the financial dis­trict. 
Then~ were conflicting state­ments on what was happening bdore tlw crane fell. rire Chief Fred Postel said it was hoisting steel beams, but the general contractor said the crane was being repositioned from the 16th to the 20th floors. 
"It felt like an earthquake," said Merrill Lynch Viee Presi­dent Joe McLaughlin, who was in the damaged office building. "I looked out and saw two bod­ies. One construction worker's boots wcrn sticking up through a mass of jagged metal." 
A piece of the crane at least three stories long dangled from the side of the building under construction two hours after the 8::Hl a.m. accident. Police roped ofT the area and ambu­lanef~S rushed in and out. 

Now with Immediate Delivery! 
Three of the most popular IBM ProprintersTM are available now at special low prices, and slightly longer deli very. 
Proprinter III w/Cable (42011003) $406 Proprinter X24E w/Cable (4207/002) $549 Proprinter XL24E w/Cable (4208/002) $736 Start out the new year right. Check out all 
these special savings now-before it's too late! 
How'rc you going to do it? 
PS/2 it! 
Notre Dame Computer Store Compl.lting Center and Math Building 
----·· 

239-7477 ----­---·­
"Th•• a let • lmoted to qualrloed IUJdenll. leculty rdllaH ,.no Older an IBM PS/2 Model 85JO-E2t Ot 9555.001 !Ntvgh December J1. 1!119. Ptoces quoted do not nclJde I Bioi tax. ProcH lbCMJ do ncudo. handing charge. 
Check wlltl ywr nttltut:.on rog•dng th11 chwge. -rBM and PS/2 we tOgllletod tradomcwka ollntetnetionel Butrletl Mach flea Capaation...Proptlltet and Micro Chamelaro 1rademwka d lntematioNIBuaneu MacilNa Ccrpcraton "''OJ86SX W1d 80386 •e trodom81i<J of Intel Ccrpcraticn. Ptices •e oubjoct to c/'Mge IWld IBM moy -.Mhdr-tho prcrnoticn atony tma Wllhrut written notice. Immediate doiMiry lcr callh and c..nien chock Ol'd.... 

The street was littered with flattened ears and a mangled motorcycle. Gas was cut off to the damaged 21-story office building for fear of an explo­sion. 
"The wreckage looks abso­lutely incredible -steel beams look like pickup sticks," said Acting Mayor Angela Alioto, sitting in while Mayor Art Ag­nos tours the country urging tourists to return in the wake of the Oct. 17 earthquake. 
At an afternoon news confer­ence at the scene, Alioto said experts could not immediately determine the cause of the col­lapse. She also said streets in a four-square-block area would 
Model30 286 
Model SS SX 853G-E21 
8555-031 
1Mb 2Mb
Memory 

80286 ( 10 MHz) (16Mhz)
Proceaaor 
144Mb 
1.44Mb

J.S.Jnch dlakette drive 
20Mb 
30Mb

Fixed dlak drive 
Micro Channel'"" architecture 
Yes 
Dlaplay 

Monochrome Monochrome 
Software 
DOS 3.3 

DOS 3.3 WordPerfect 
WordPerfect 
$1,995 $2,950Price 
AP/Karl Gude 

be closed for at least a week for cleanup and repairs, and the California Street cable car also was shut down. 
Alioto said the dead were four construction workers, all from the Seattle area, and the woman driving the school van, operated by Laidlaw Transit Inc. 
"It's pretty rough," said Laidlaw Senior Vice President Howard Wallack. "They (other employees) are pretty upset, and we are arranging a chap­lain and psychologist to go over to our offices." 
The fire chief said five people were listed as missing in the twisted steel and broken eon-
Options with any ordor, 
lotus 1-2-3 $100 
Color Monitors $230 
crete. 

Three hospitals reported re­ceiving 21 victims, four in seri­ous condition. Most of the rest had minor injuries. 
Swinerton & Walberg Co. of San Francisco, the general con­tractor on the job, said the crane was being repositioned from the 16th story to the 20th story, the second such reposi­tioning of the project. 
The crane, model No. SN355 manufactured by American Pecco of Millwood, N.Y., had a capacity of 17 tons. The site was last inspected by the state Occupational Safety and Health Administration on Aug. 11. The project, which began in Jan­uary, has not been cited for safety violations, the company said in a news release. 
Debris rained down on a taxi driven by Issa Massarweh, who had two passengers at the time. The cab's back window was smashed. 
"I don't know where my pas­sengers are," he said. "I threw myself under the dashboard." He told his passengers to duck and when he next looked, they had left. He was unharmed. 
"I heard a loud bang and stepped up and saw the tail end of a crane," said stockbroker Don Trabert. 
~~ 
continued from page 1 0 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MO!! CJ'S HAS ASKED US BACK FOR A REPEAT PERFORMANCE OF 
NATURAL WOMAN!! HAVE A GREAT DAY! LOVE THE 2 QUADS & BETSY 
ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY RD., 300 W., KOKOMO, IN 46901. 
ADOPTION -Well-educated couple eager to adopt a baby. Cheerful home full of books. Flexible on sharing information with birth mother about child. Our adoption agency can provide counseling and references. Please call collect 309-827-3135 eveslwknds for profile/photo. James and Hollis. 
To the guy in SOH on 11121: Thanks for making my day! Elisabeth Shue 
THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune MON-THUR 7:30AM to 11 PM 
FRI7:30AM to 11PM SAT noon to 6PM SUN noon to 11 PM 
61t Copies-Printing-Binding 
PRETTY BOY(Yes, you Greg)­1 think this has gone on long enough. Sorry for overreacting. FOREVER CHILDLESS 
Corvallis Calling Is Back Sat. Dec. 2nd 10:00 at Club 23 
PARROTHEADS FOREVER!! 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM Prof. John H. Robinson Director of NO's Thomas White Center on Law and Government responds to "Should Cocaine be Legalized?" Thursday, Nov 30 7pm All are welcome! 

RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! 
DAYTOIIA BEACH '"""'f2J• 
7 NIGHTS 
SOUTH PADif ISU.I ·-'fit• 
50~ 7 NIGHTS 
STUAIIDAT 2. 50~ 7 NIGHTS ~IT UUDIIDtil 7 NICHTS HILJ'OIIHWIRMI  '"""''".'""""''.'"""lfJ7•  
7 NIGHT5  
COIPUS CHIIm I  
INII7IIC ISWII  
5 OR 7 NIGHTS  

CALL lOLL FIIEE TOQOIY 
1·8DO-J21·51t1
'"""··· 
&l) 
on Droll! elites Mid /Of1!1CII Of Sll\' 
1\llllllll'o ,Ill' 'ojliL\ILhllg 1,1:-,tL'I Lh,lll .\1[)5 
For the facts call your local Red Cross. or write: 
AIDS 
+
American Red Cross ~ 'Mishington, DC 20006 
On January 1st, Eurailpass rates go upl Buy your pass in December and you'll still be able to start us1ng it anyt1me before July 1. 1990. Call us for details on Eurail, StudenVYouth/Facu~y flights. lnt'l StudenVYouth!Teacher I. D. cards, Study and Work Abroad Programs. 


Viewpoint
page 8 Wednesday, November 29, 1989 
The ObserYer 

LETTERS 

True socialism means 'everyone matters' 
P 0 Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s CoCCia R1ch lannell1 
Exec. News Ed1tor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager Alison Cocks Accent Editor John Blas1 Systems Mgr Bernard Brenn1nkmeyer Photo Editor Enc Ba1ley OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chnst1ne G1ll Controller Anne L1ndne1 
The Observer '~the •ndependent newspaper published by the students of the Umversl· ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the pol­ICies of the adm1mstrat•on of e1ther 1nst1tut10n The news is reported as accurately and ob· 1ect1vely as pcss•ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opm1on of the maJOnty of the follow1ng Ed,tor-•n-Ch•el. Manag1ng Ed1tor. Execut1ve News Ed1tor. V1ewpomt Ed1tor Sports Ed1tor Accent Ed1tor. Photo Ed1tor. Samt Mary's Ed1tor Commentanes. letters and the lns1de Column present the v1ews ol thelf authors. Column space IS ava1lable to all members ol the commun1ty and the free expression of varying op1n1ons on campus t11rough letters IS encouraged 
/Jear Hditor: 
This is in response to Mr. 
Dave Bruner's article "Socialist 
States Leaving People Alone for 
Good" published in The 
Observer's Inside Column on 
Nov. 14. 
I would agnw with Mr. 
Bruner that, of late, 
Communism has been dearly 
proved to be an utter failure. 
As I havn lived under a Marxist­
Lnninist government in Ethiopia 
for six long years, I know how 
eomcive, cruel, inhuman and 
absurd communist rule is. 
llowever, I would not just write-off the concept of social­ism; for me, it means "welfare for all" or "everyone matters." Tlw Communists abused the word "socialism" to such a gnmt extent by all their so­called 'scientific socialism' rhetoric that we have grown avnrse to this meaningful no­tion. Buddha, Jesus and Gandhi were all real socialists. 
I 
I would strongly disagree with Mr. Bruner over his very high enthusiasm about Capitalism. Freedom and lib­erty are the birth rights of hu­man beings, and whenever they are denied or threatened, hu­mankind has struggled to at­tain and preserve them. It is the human soul-force which was instrumental in that struggle and success, not any political or economic ideology. A won­
derful example is the recent spontaneous happenings in East Germany. 
If democratic capitalism has given all the freedom and lib­l)rty to the people, what is the reason why 35 million U.S. citi­zens are poor, why 58 percent of the people in this country feel powerless and alienated, why the U.S. citizens' cry for peace in Central and Latin America has always gone ig-
DOONESBURY 
nored by the government. I hear that 83 percent of the riches and resources of this country are enjoyed by 10 per­cent of the population and that the remaining 90 percent of Amerieans "democratically" share the 17 percent left over. The rich get richer. and the poor get poorer. Is this the freedom and liberty in demo­cratic capitalism? 
In my view, both communism and capitalism are equally bad and monstrous. Power is the end in both the systems; inhu­man coercion is the means in the former, and pitiless ex­ploitation in the latter. Foree is the instrument there and money, here. That system is based on physical violence, and this on structural violence. There, a group of Central Committee members are the de­cision-makers. and here, the rich capitalists. In both sys­tmns, "All are equal. but some are more equal." Retaining the power and protecting the intnr­ests of the "some" are · the bases of the respective systems. 
Socialism (I mean, Gandhian and Vivekanandite) is the only way out, at least for Indians. We, Gandhian socialists, do not tolerate any attempt by anyone to curb our personal freedom and liberty. We do identify the class divisions among the peo­' ple, but we do not want to kill the capitalists or anyone else. We want to remove the element of exploitation in the capitalis­tic endeavors through mutual understanding, goodwill, nego­tiation and non-violent means. We do not envy his wealth or sabotage his properties, but ask for a better deal for our honest and sincere work through loving ways and non­violent means. The capitalist invests money, and the workers 
invest their energy, and we 
want a just deal for both. No 
master-slave relationships 
would be tolerated; they. to­
gether. serve the people and 
make their living at the same 
time. And we strongly believe in 
God. 
Even when the private sector 
is encouraged to pursue its own 
interests, and the right to 
property is respected, essential 
sectors of the economy. like the 
natural resources of the coun­
try. transportation, etc., would 
not be put at the mercy of indi­
vidual rich capitalists. Every 
citizen has equal rights and en­
titlements to these things. So. 
an individual's basic wealth and 
riches remain there, well-pro­
tected and maintained through 
democratic institutions. An in­
dividual's own personal or fa­
milial growth is left open for 
his initiatives and efforts. 
Because of these measures, 
people are certainly motivated 
and competition is kept healthy. 
A certain amount of centraliza­
tion is obviously needed. 
Absorbing the best elements of both communism and capi­talism, we strike a healthy compromise in the form of a mixed-economy. This experi­ence has proved to be a suc­cess in India, despite shortcom­ings like an enormous popula­tion, underdevelopment, the huge diversity of people, illiter­acy, a lack of resources, cor­rupt politicians, an inefficient bureaucracy, etc. 
Our world is entering a fan­tastic phase of change. The age-old evils like communism, colonialism. racism and the like are fast giving way to reason, justice, truth and soul-force. Capitalism has to follow suit. 
S.P. UdayaKumar 
Graduate Student Peace Studies 


IAJt. (j(JfA atiONE4AJS,

MR. PCWti?'Si I 
ANIJIVITTCHHCI<.
AYe,

WANT 7}f; 8tARIM3 
esaJ1<T 5HIP5l (Aiffi 
fA/HAT 600{J NEW5-TYP!J
AYe, 

15/T, 517llATION, 5/R. 7He
Nt:ARJ,Y SN4MPW

ON THAT50VI~T 
5/R-'

tJ(jf{TCRJ.J15C.R ! 
5.4110?? RAPA!< 7DfA/eR JlJ5T __,.,__ EJJ4T lH/5 TAIN? 
7HAT 7rFP&IXJ CAP­
GOTSHCAR£00ffBY \ = A C/?JPPl&ll AIFOWT.
7/ 

Dear Hditor: 
Today I would like to tell you about a subject that is very near and dear to me. And that is. what it is like to have a nine­teen year old brother for a roommate. My brother Paul goes to the University of Notre Dame in the United States. lie comes to live with us for three months every year when his school has an end of the year break. So for ninn months I have the bedroom to myself and, for thn~e months, I have to share it with Paul. 
For most boys at Glen­dalough Junior School, the day starts with the alarm going off at about 7 a.m. My day starts at about 2 a.m. when Paul comes home after an evening out with his "mates." lie trips over the dirty laundry he has left molding on the floor and crashes to the carpet. This event wakens me. After thrash­ing about in his bed, he falls asleep-and that's when the ac­tion really starts. 
You see, my brother snores. Not your average snores. but the kind that could blow the door shut. If that's not bad enough, my brother also talks in complete sentences at the top of his voice while he is sound asleep. One night he sat up in bed and yelled "SOME DOGS ARE BIGGER THAN OTHERS!" and then laid back down again. Now, what am I supposed to do? Agree with him? Ignore 
him? Or. throw sonwthing at him! 
ThPrP are sonw nights wlwn I'd like to leap out of bPd and start playing my drums to giv<' him a tasll~ of his own rm~didne. but he's bigger than me and would probably beat ml' to a pulp. So I just lay thPrP quif~tly-hoping I 1~an fall aslePp befom too long. Sonwtimes Paul speaks in Latin and otlwr times he says thosP four l1~tter words that Mom hoped lw would never us1~. It is a pity that he doesn't speak Frnneh b11cause that might help me pass my foreign language dass. 
BPforn long it is 7 a.m.. and both my brotlwr and I get up. Paul goes to work. and I go to school. I skip taking a shower because he uses up all the hot water. 
People often ask me if I miss my brother sinee we moved to Australia... I guess I do, but there are times when he is here that I wish he was back at Notre Dame-talking away in the middle of the night and bothering his university room­mates, while I enjoy a docent night's sleep. 
Doug Froning 
Malvern, Victoria 
Australia 
/Jouglas Froning is a Year 7 student at St. Ket1in 's College (Glendalough) in Melbourne, Austra lia. This was his entry in his school's oratorical competi­tion. -Ed. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'There are important cases in which the difference between half a heart and a whole heart makes just the difference between signal defeat and a splendid victory.' 
A.H.KBoyd 

Accent
Wednesday, November 29, 1989 page 9 
the Appalachians daily.' 
accent writer 
Above left: From left to right, senior Kevin Yaley works with sophomores Keith Cavanaugh and Kevin Roxas to help build shleves, just one of their many tasks during their week in Appalachia. Above: Sophomore Ben Kelly helps to clean up the area by burning doors, windows and other junk collected around Cranks Creek. 
"Are you sure you can handle it?" "You might not take a shower for a wer~k." "YOU???" 
These were some of the reac­tions of many of my fellow stu­dents when they heard about my Octobnr break plans. Be­tween the USC game and the Pitt game, I worked for a week in Appalachia. 
My friends were surprised, shocked. and most demanded pictures-they wanted proof of my manual work experience. The fact is, everyone thought of me as an atypical participant for service at the Cranks Creek Survival Center in Harlem, Ken­tucky. Even I thought my break plans were a bit out of my character. However, upon my return, I decided that every sin­gle individual can be a typical participant in the Appalchia program. All you need is the drive to give service a try. 
Our week began at 7:50a.m. 
Sunday, October 25. All the groups loaded into their cus­tom designed vans that had been rented from Basney Ford Honda. My group stood at the Center for Social Concerns staring at a rusted, old, light blue van covered with snow and dripping with icicles. "The Big Blue Bomber," as we affection­ately nicknamed her, was ours for the week, though no one thought she would last. Any­way, we claimed her, we loaded her up, and she led us straight to Cranks Creek. 
The quintessential element which created the positive Ap­palchia experience was our group as a whole. We began getting to know each other in­side Big Blue while playing car games and singing road tunes. Our initial bonding (the term here refers to the process of building friendships) began in the car and it continued throughout the week. The group consisted of sixteen se­niors, one junior, and three sophomores, but we all treated each other as equals. No single individual did all of the cooking and cleaning. We worked as a team and bonded as one unit. 
The highlights of the week in­cluded the Fundamentalist Chuirch revival, our dance, the Thursday night bonfire (complete with late night snipe hunt), the ceremonial raising of the shelves, the completion of the white picket fence, and the repainting of Opel's house from dingy grey to white with a pink trim. 
Monday night we were invited to attend religious services at the nearby church. Wednesday night we found the Driftwood, a local establishment, which offered to hold our dance. And finally, on Thursday night our bonding experience soldified around the campfire while we told riddles and ate smores. 
Despite all the social activity, we did find time to work. The completion of our projects proved to be the most memo­rable events. Unfortunately we did not have enough time or skill to rebuild the bridge lead­ing to the survival center, but we did clean up the center's yard, paint their barn, install shelves, and build them a fence. In addition, we helped the community by sorting clothes and repainting a local resi­dent's home. 
Thinking back on the week I spent in Appalachia I would not hesitate to say that it was one of the most rewarding weeks of my life. Our group did not move mountains, but we were intro­duced to the problems which face the Appalachians daily. Waste disposal, contaminated water, and a lack of education appeared to be the top three problems facing these people. An awareness of these prob­lems and our small contribu­tions will provide resolutions to this ongoing crisis, but we can­not get frustrated. If we do, no resolutions, no matter how small, will take place. 
I sat in the front seat of Big Blue on the way back to Notre Dame with a good friend of mine. He and I were discussing the week and we almost agreed that the University should make a service project mandatory for all undergraduates. But think­ing it over, we decided that forcing an individual to do work for his or her community is wrong. The desire to serve comes purely from the individ­ual. Obviously, my desire shocked the people I knew. De­spite everyone's apprehensions, including my own, the week proved to be rewarding because of our accomplishments and because of the people in my group. The two combined to make my week in Appalachia a very positive experience and one which I would encourage every student to particpate in at least once before graduat­ing. 

Do's and don'ts for the airborne passenger 
Well, another vacation has come and gone, and for many of us, this means that we once again were allowed to experience the joy of flight. Commercial aviation is truly one of the wonders of our modern age. But it's also an 
lan Mitchell 
Lion Taming 
easy target for ridicule and derision, so let's not waste any time. Clip 'n' Save for your next visit to the friendly skies -­Lion Taming's guide to airline flights: 
Things you don't want to hear from the cockpit: 
1) "Oops." 
2) Shortly after takeoff, the pilot comes on the PA system, screams "Whooee, let's see what this baby can do!" and proceeds to take the plane into a series of barrel rolls. 
3) "Uh, good evening ladies and gentlemen; this is your captain speaking. Has anyone on board the aircraft flown this route before, and if so, do you remember which way we turn after the third big mountain?" 
4) "Hey, what do you say we throw out the itinerary and take this baby to Bermuda?" 
5) "Ladies and Gentlemen, this is your first officer speaking. Umm ... by the way, has anyone seen the captain?" 
6) "All right everybody, outta your seats! It's polka time!" 
7) "Although we don't have an inflight movie for your enjoyment, the co-pilot and I would like to perform a few musical numbers from the world of country western; sing along, y'all..." 
Things to say after pushing the call button: 
1) "Just testing." 
2) "Hi, I'll be your passenger in the main cabin today, and if there's anything I need during the flight, I won't hesistate to call on you." 
3) Pretend not to understand the safety instructions: "Excuse me, but you were going a little too fast for me just now. Do I insert the silver buckle into the metal tongue or is it the other way around?" 
'Clip 'n' Save for your next visit to the friendly skies... ' 
4) Whatever you say, push the call button early and often; that's what it's there for, right? 
More fun things to do: 

During the boarding process, when they announce the pre­board for children, senior citizens, and all those passengers needing a little extra time boarding the aircraft, get up, run to the door and explain in a loud voice that you are extremely stupid and need the extra time to find your seat. Once you get on board the aircraft, you get to play the mystery game "who am I sitting next to?" Did you luck out and find the man/woman of your dreams? Or, wait a minute, isn't that your seat next to the inebriated, chain-smoking, fat woman with the screaming baby? 
Now, there are two kinds of people in the world: those who enjoy talking for several hours non-stop to total strangers on a plane and those who are sane. If you're seated next to those who hate conversation, try an icebreaker like "You're probably wondering about my life story ... " or "Man, I didn't think that cop would ever stop bleeding ... " To silence those who would otherwise be yammering away for hours, start a conversation by politely asking "Mind if I drool?" or, better yet, try flapping your arms wildly during takeoff and, when asked, explain that you're just helping the pilot. 
The fun doesn't stop there, of course. You can memorize the safety annoucements and do them in rap form, make fun of the food, or even surf up and down the aisle during takeoffs and landings by removing your shoes and using two of those plastic-coated safety cards as skis. (According to a friend of mine, people actually did this aboard the press plane during last year's presidential campaign. I have a feeling it wouldn't go over too well on the average flight, however.) 
In reality, rm sure that flying isn't really that boring or that bad; its just that I tly a lot of discount airlines. You know, the kind that have slogans like: "just like a bus ... but with wings!" 

r 
page 10 

Expos losing pitchers to free agent market 
MONTHI~AL (AP) -Losing two starting pitchnrs hurts. even if tlwir combined record was 19-24 last season. But see­ing them get $2 million a year has tlw Montreal Expos furi­ous. 
"Wp're going through an­ollwr pPriod of escalation," Expos owner CharlPs Bronfman said Tuesday after Bryn Smith joined Pascual Perez and jumped ship. 
"People arn being financially irn~sponsible ... ," Bronfman said. "I nwan you can havP bid­ding for players but you don't have to bP a damned fool about it. And right now. some people 
an~. 
Pen~z. 9-13 in 1989, and Bryn Smith. who was 10-11. both sigrwd fn~e-agents contracts worth about $2 million year. And. Mark Langston. llw ace of their pitching staff. probably is next. 
Smith camP to terms Tuesday with the St. Louis Cardinals on a three-year deal reportedly worth $6 million, and Perez sigrwd a three-year, $5.7 mil­lion contract with the New York Yankees last week. 
"The big clubs in the big markets can afford to do what they're doing," Bronfman said. "We can't afford to compete from a dollars standpoint." 
Montreal reportedly offered Perez a three-year contract with $1.3 million the first year. lin made $850,000 last season. 
Expos president Claude 

Brochu said the Expos deeided not to match any offers for Smith because "Bryn's a good, average pitcher. That's what he is -a .500 pitcher. If you triple his salary, it's not suddenly go­ing to make him a 20-game winner. 
"That means he's a fourth or fifth starter, and we feel the money he's seeking is excessive. We really can't compete with those numbers. We'll pass on it and go with what we've got." 
"What we have right now is a market that's out of control. 
Bather than make a mistake or do something that's not going to help us. we're going to wait and see what develops." 
Langston, whom the Expos acquired from Seattle for three young pitchers on May 25. also is a free agent. Langston, 12-9 with the Expos, was born in San Diego and has expressed a desire to play in California. 
He made $1.3 million in 1989. Montreal reportedly offered Langston a three-year contract at around $9 million, but later withdrew it. 
What the Expos have left of. their starting rotation is Dennis Martinez and Kevin Gross. Zane Smith is expected to make the move to starter from the bullpen; rookie Mark Gardner will get a shot at making the rotation and Montreal appar­ently will try to talk left-hander John Candelaria out of retiring. 
The Observer Wednesday, November 29, 1989 
The Observer I John Cluver 
Co-captain Joe Fredrick and the Notre Dame basketball team picked up where they left off last season, defeating San Francisco 84-80. 

Zendejas reveals bounty-hunting Eagles to NFL officials 
PIIILADELPIIIA (AP) -Dallas kicker Luis Zendejas has given the NFL the names of Philadelphia players who told him that Eagles coach Buddy Ryan put a bounty on him and two other Dallas players. 
Zendejas said he gave security offi­cials the names of "four or five" play­ers. 
lie said they warned him before the Thanksgiving Day game or admitted aftmward that Hyan planned to reward anyone who took him, quarterback Troy Aikman or punter Mike Saxon out of the game. Zendejas said he was told that Warren Welsh, the league's direc­tor of security, would question the play­ers. 
Dallas running back Junior Tauta­latasi, like Zendejas a former Eagle. said he also had spoken to NFL security people about allegations that the Eagles had placed bounties on other players during his years with the team, from 1986 to 1988. 
Meanwhile, Dallas coach Jimmy John­son said thn Cowboys wanted to put the bounty incident behind them. 
"I would anticipate a memorandum to the various teams in the league," John­son said. "It's history. I know what happened." 
NFL spokesman Dick Maxwell said the league would not comment on the investigation and declined to say whether Johnson's statement would af­fect the inquiry. 
Johnson first lodged allegations that Ryan offered bounties on Zendejas and Aikman after the Cowboys' 27-0 loss to the Eagles last week. He charged that Hyan put out a $200 bounty on Zendejas and $500 on quarterback Aikman with the payoff coming if they were knocked out of Thursday's game. The Eagles won 27-0. 
Zendejas, cut earlier this month by Philadelphia and signed by Dallas, was, in fact, hit by rookie linebacker Jessie Small after a kickoff and dazed. Aikman was also hit after the whistle on a Dallas offside, precipitating a skirmish. Small has denied going after Zendejas to collect a bounty. 
Zendejas said he he expects someone on the Eagles to confirm that bounties were offered. 
"I just pretty much have to go on the hope that someone will stand up and say what he believes," Zendejas said. 
"Buddy's job is on the line, and he didn't do a very good job of keeping this quiet because he trusted it to a rookie. Someone will spill their guts. They all said after the game they wouldn't come after me and that they were my friends. 
"Well, if they are my friends, some­body will stand up and say the truth." 
Hyan, who has labeled the charges "ridiculous," would not comment on the controversy Tuesday. Team spokesman Bon Howard said Hyan told him he would not talk about the Cowboys until next week, when Dallas plays at Philadelphia. 
.The Eagles this week released pictures taken by a team photographer of Hyan and Johnson talking pleasantly on the field before the game, prompting Eagles owner Norman Braman to question 
Johnson's remarks earlier that hP had known of the bounties before the game. 
"My God. 45 minutes before the game. Jimmy Johnson ran halfway across the finld to say hello to me," Braman said. "And that's why I found it so difficult to believe that he knew this bounty non­sense the night befom. 
"If he knew it the night before, I be­lieve that he would've said something to me and not been so effusively warm with Buddy bnfore thn game." 
Johnson, meanwhile, said h1~ doesn't want his team to retaliate in the next meeting between the teams. 
"I would discourage anything that would be a waste of time or that was disruptive." Johnson said. 
But owner Jerry Jonns said by tnle­phone on Tuesday that he was calling NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue. 
"It's a good opportunity for the rww commissioner to make a statement, an nxample, " Jones said. "I agree with Jimmy that there's a 50-50 chance any­thing will come of it. It's something that is difficult to pin down. " 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from t 0 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 3t4 LaFortune, and from t2:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds ts 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. including spaces.
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER. 233-7009. 
WORDPROCESSING 272·8827 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 
TEXTBOOKS BOUGHT AND SOLD PANDORA'S BOOKS CORNER OF N.D. AVE. AND 

LOST: $70 FROM TRUSTCORP MACHINE ON 11/18/89. THERE'S A VIDEO TAPE OF THE TRANSACTION. PLEASE RETURN MONEY TO 222 KEENAN HALL. NO QUESTIONS ASKED AND NO FURTHER TROUBLE. 
WANTED 

EARN $300-$500 PER WEEK READING BOOKS AT HOME. CALL 1-6t5-473-7440 EXT. B340. 
ATIENTION-HIRING I Government jobs -your area. $t7,840-$69.485. Call 1·602-838-FOR SALE 8885. EXT R6262. 
I 
RED 4·DOOR 1980 HONDA 
FOR RENT ­
ACCORD. CALL 3619. 
605 ST. PETER, 5 BEDRM ' PERSONALS 
~~~~~;~C~ ~~~~~ ~~~05 g:Lt .__________... 
ELMER 288·3942. 
STUDENT-MADE NO FOOTBALL NEAR N.D. Clean and comfortable 
T-SHIRTS WANTED. CALL TOM apartments: 
COLLECT AT (602) 948-76t0 
WITH DESCRIPTION. $225. 1 bedroom·$265. 
• 755 South Bend Ave, efficiency· ESPECIALLY WANT MIAMI AND 
ORANGE BOWL FLIGHTS CALL 1-800-7DOMERS 
Chicago -$295 Cincinnati -$245 Cleveland -$311 Dallas -$320 Denver -$351 Detroit -$280 Louisville -$245 Philadelphia -$270 New Orleans · $200 LaGuardia· $310 Boston -$328 Pittsburgh -$320 Los Angeles -$440 
SOPHOMORES!! 
Let's rock around the Christmas tree at the­SOPHOMORE CHRISTMAS FORMAL Friday, December 1, from 9pm to lam in South Dining Hall Tickets are $8 per couple and on sale NOW in Sophomore Class Office. HO!HO!HO! 
HOWARD 
233·2342 LOTS OF PAPERBACKS IN STOCK! 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: MEN'S NO RING ON SUNDAY BETWEEN LAFORTUNE AND STADIUM. REWARD OFFERED. 1522. 
Found: Silver watch before Thanksgiving in Stud Govt office. See secretary on 2nd floor of LaFortune to claim OVERSEAS JOBS. $900·2000 mo. Summer,yr.round,AII Countries. All fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del Mar CA 92625. 

FEDERAL. STATE AND CIVIL SERVICE JOBS! NOW HIRING THIS AREAl $t0.27t TO $84.157. IMMEDIATE OPENINGS! CALL 1-315·733·6062 EXT #F2382H FOR CURRENT LISTING. 
• 607 t/2 E. Corby, 1 bedroom· $295. Deposit, references . 616-483-9572. 
MALE/FEMALE HOUSEMATE NEEDED FOR NEXT SEMESTER. OWN BEDROOM, CLOSE TO CAMPUS, HOUSE IN GREAT CONDITION. t20/MO. +UTIL. PLEASE CALL 289-4621. 
Nice furnished homes for next school year. Close to NO. 277· 
3097. 
ORANGE BOWL SHIRTS. WILL PAY $12.50/SHIRT. 
ADOPTION, A LOVING ALTERNATIVE. Btl ALUM WISHES TO ADOPT AN INFANT. LOVING HOME, CERTIFIED TO ADOPT, EXPENSES PAID. CAN BE CONFIDENTIAL OR OPEN. IF YOU OR SOMEONE YOU IS CONSIDERING ADOPTION, CALL MIKE & JEAN COLLECT AT 602­482-0905. 
U NEED CLEAN CLOTHES I NEED$$$. 284-4194. 
CALL 1-800-7DOMERS MOST FLIGHTS 12/29 AND 1/3. SEATS ARE LIMITED. 
WANT TO TRADE HOUSING FOR TWO IN PALM BEACH CONDO 
FROM DEC. 31 THRU JAN. 3 FOR 
2 QUALITY TICKETS TO ORANGE 
BOWL GAME. (217)431-3126. 
BELL YGRAMS. BALLOONS. 
SINGING TELEGRAMS, 255­
3355. 
HIAG! 
GOING ABROAD NEXT SEMESTER? WANT TO SHARE STORAGE? CALL X 2905 
Melissa G.· are you giving lessons on how to tie cherry stems with your lounge? 
Need all T -shirts 

Call Tracy at 3865. 
see CLASS I page 7 
Sports Wednesday 
page 11 

David Bankoske, C 10 Tim Kuehl, RW 10 Lou Zadra, LW 8 Curtis Janicke, C 10 Dan Sawyer, D 10 Sterling Black, C 10 Pat Arendt, C 10 Mike Curry, LW 10 Tom Miniscalco, LW 6 Kevin Patrick, D 9 Kevin Markovitz, D 10 Rob Copeland, D 7 Dan Marvin, LW 10 Mike Leherr, D 8 Chris Olson, LW 8 Bruce Guay, W 10 Mike Musty, C 10 Scott Vickman, D 5 Lance Madson, G 10 Eric Gregoire, D 10 Mike O'Brien, LW 3 Bruce Haikola, D 2 Peter Musty, RW 2 Bill Hoelzel, RW 3 
13 8 5 4 4 6 3 5 0 1 1 1 2 1 1 2 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 

12  25  2-4  
12  20  4-8  
8  13  6-12  
8  12  6-12  
6  10  7-14  
4  10  3-6  
6  9  4-8  
3  8  7-14  
6  6  1-5  
5  6  2-4  
5  5  7-14  
4  5  2-4  
3  5  9-18  
3  4  4-8  
3  4  0-0  
1  3  6-12  
1  3  0-0  
2  2  2-4  
2  2  0-0  
2  2  3-6  
1  1  0-0  
0  0  1-2  
0  0  0-0  
0  0  1-2  

0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
1 0 


Invitational Hockey vs. MANKATO STATE, 7:30p.m. Men's and women's swimming at National Catholics 
Saturday Wrestling at Las Vegas Invitational H 

Nov. 15-28 Hockey (8-2-0) Notre Dame 3-2, St. Cloud 2-8 Notre Dame 6-5, Lake Forest 3-3 Women's basketball (2-0) Notre Dame 113, Liberty 35 Notre Dame 81, Central Florida 61 
Football (11-1) Notre Dame 34, Penn State 23 Miami 27, Notre Dame 10 
Men's cross country Mike O'Connor placed 92nd in the NCAA Championships with a time of 31 :34.52 
Wrestling Notre Dame had two winners and one finalist in the St. Louis Tournament: Andy Radenbaugh won the 118-pound division; Mark Gerardi took the 167-pound division; Pat Boyd was a finalsit in the 142-pound division 
Men's swimming (7-0) Notre Dame 177, Wisconsin­Milwaukee 118 Notre Dame 143, Loyola 62 
Women's swimming (5-2) 
Men's basketball vs. Louisville at 
Big Four Classic, 2 p.m. 
Sunday Women's basketball vs. TENNESSEE, 2 p.m. 
Tuesday 

Men's basketball at Indiana, 8 
p.m. Dec. 6 
Women's basketball at Indiana, 
7 30 I 

. FOOTBALL TOP 25 POLL 
The Top Twenty Five teams in the Associated Press college football poll, with first-place votes in parentheses. records through Nov. 25, total points based on 25­24-23-22-21-20-19-18-17-16-15-14-13­12-11-1 0-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1 and last 
week's ranking: Record 
1. Colorado (53) 11-0-0 
2. Alabama (2) 10-0-0 
3. Michigan (1) 10-1-0 
4. Miami, Fla. (3) 10-1-0 
5. 
Notre Dame 11-1-0 

6. 
Florida St. 8-2-0 7. Nebraska 10-1-0 8. Tennessee 9-1-0 9. Arkansas 9-1-0 


10. Illinois 9-2-0 11. Auburn 8-2-0 
12. Southern Cat 8-2-1 13. Houston 8-2-0 14. Clemson 9-2-0 15. Virginia 10-2-0 
16. 
Texas A&M 7-3-0 

17. 
West Virginia 8-2-1 

18. 
Penn St. 7-3-1 

19. 
Brigham Young 10-2-0 20. Duke 8·3-0 


21. Ohio St. 8-3-0 
22. Michigan St. 7-4-0 23. Hawaii 9-2-0 24. Pittsburgh 6-3-1 
8-3-0 
Pts Pvs 1,468 2 1,351 4 1,332 3 1,319 7 1,231 1 1,200 5 1,154 6 1,045 8 1,000 9 
913 11 893 10 802 12 750 13 684 15 640 16 534 14 499 17 450 22 401 21 301 23 264 20 247 25 197 24 180 19 
177 1 

Notre Dame 113, Wisconsin-~~~~~~~~~i;'i!ll.li;ii~ Miwaukee 27 as 
standings West *1. Zahm #2. Grace 
3. 
Off-Campus Maniacs 

4. 
Pangborn 6 Pack 

5. 
Stanford Spikers 


Midwestern *1. Off-Campus University Village #2. Alumni A 
3. 
Fisher B 

4. 
Morrissey 

5. 
St. Edward B 


East 
*1 . Pangborn #2. Stanford Darkside #3. Pangborn MT JS 
4. 
Alumni B 

5. 
Dillon 


Southern *1. Fisher A #2.Cavanaugh 
3. 
Dillon Gladiators 

4. 
Off-Campus Murphy 

5. 
Stanford B 


North *1. Keenan X #2. St. Edward A 
3. 
Stanford A 

4. 
Off-Campus X 

5. 
Holycross *=Won division #=second place I pi 


Northern Michigan 71, Notre Dame of America, with name, school, height, weight and eligibility class: 69 Offense 
2 2 1 3 1 .0 0 0 3 1 0 0 0 2 1 0 1 1 1 ·0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
1. Bo Jackson over Chuck Long (1985) by 45 votes
0 0 0 
2. Ernie Davis over Bob Ferguson (1961) by 53 votes
0 0 0 0 0 0 
3. 
John Lattner over Paul Giel (1953) by 56 votes 0 0 0 

4. Paul Hornung over John Majors (1956) by 72 votes 0 0 0 
5. 
John Huarte over Jerry Rhome (1964) by 74 votes 

6. 
Billy Sims over Chuck Fusina (1978) by 77 




13 8 6 *Each year approximately 1,000 media and former Heisman winners vote
11 8 2 
NVA RESULTS SOURCE: Sports Features Syndicate Men's interhall volleyball BASKETBALL TOP 25 POLLS 
The Top Twenty Five teams in the 
Associated Press college basketball poll,4-0 with first-place votes in parentheses, 3-1 records through Nov. 26, total points 
based on 25-24-23-22-21-20-19·18-17­
2-2 

16·15-14-13-12-11-1 0-9-8-7-6·5·4-3-2-1 
1-3 

and last week's ranking: 
0-4 Record Pts Pvs 1 . Syracuse (23) 0-0 1,453 3 2. Arizona (1 0) 1-0 1,442 6 3. Georgetown (9) 2-0 1,411 5
4-0 

4. Kansas (16) 4-0 1,266 5. Missouri 3-0 1,248 11 3-1 6. UNLV 3-1 1,247 1 7. Duke(1) 1-0 1,089 10
2-2 

8. Illinois 0-0 1,026 8
1-3 

9. LSU(1) 1-1 1,009 2 
0-4 1 0. Michigan 0·1 1,008 4 11. Arkansas (2) 2·0 976 9 12. N. Carolina (1) 2-1 947 7 13. Louisville 2-1 662 12
4-0 

14. Indiana 1-0 658 14 2-2 15. UCLA 1-0 648 13 2-2 16. Temple 0-0 505 15 
17. Oklahoma 0-0 484 16
1-3 

18. Pittsburgh 0-0 464 18
1-3 

19. Notre Dame 0-0 418 17 20. St. John's 3-1 369 25 21. Georgia Tech 1·0 351 22 22. Memphis St. 2-0 329 24
4-0 

23. Oklahoma St. 0-0 254 21
3-1 

24. Florida 0-0 171 23 2-2 25. N. Carolina St. 1-1 124 19 1-3 Other receiving votes: Texas-EI Paso 89, 
Texas 87, Clemson 81, Michigan St. 71,
0-4 

DePaul 60, Minnesota 60, Alabama 56, Houston 48, La Salle 47, Loyola Marymount 36, Oregon St. 35, Ark.-Little 4-0 Rock 25, Kansas St. 24, Rutgers 22, Ball St. 21, New Mexico 19, Seton Hall 18,
3-1 

Xavier, Ohio 17, James Madison 14, Iowa
2-2 

13, UC Santa Barbara 12, Wake Forest 8, 1-3 Boston U. 6, Georgia 6, Maryland 6, Iowa 0-4 St. 5, Purdue 5, Hawaii 4, Old Dominion 4, 
Evansville 3, Mississippi 3, West Virginia 3 
N. Iowa 2, Providence 2, Bradley 1, E 
returner-
The Observer I Laura Stanton 
The Top Twenty Five women's basketball teams, with first-place votes of 67 women's coaches in parentheses, total points based on 25-24-23-22-21-20-19­18-17-16-15-14-13-12-11-1 0·9-8-7-6-5­4-3-2-1, season records through Nov. 26, points and last season's final ranking as compiled by Mel Greenberg of The Philadelphia Inquirer: 
Record Pts Pvs 
1. Tennessee (41) 1-0 1,527 1 2. La. Tech (21) 2-0 1,503 2 3. Stanford (1) 2-0 1,420 3 4. Georgia 2-0 1 ,368 4 5. N. Carolina St. 2-0 1 ,243 6 6. Auburn 2-0 1 ,223 7 7. Long Beach St. 2-0 1,118 9 8. Purdue 0-0 1 ,067 8 9. Nev.-Las Vegas 2-0 1,002 10 10. Iowa 2-0 934 11 11. Texas 0-1 902 5 12. Stephen Austin 0·0 965 12 13. Washington 2-0 859 16 14. Louisiana St. 2-0 809 13 15. Virginia 2·1 684 15 16. Old Dominion 3-0 587 18 17. South Carolina 0·0 452 19 18. Maryland 1-1 421 17 19. Mississippi 1-1 371 14 20. Tenn.Tech 0·0 322 20 21. St. Joseph's 0-0 298 21 22. West Kentucky 2-0 260 23 23. Vanderbilt 2-1 193 22 24. Oregon 1-1 115 24 25. Hawaii 3-0 111 25 
Others receiving votes: DePaul 99, Rutgers 95, S. Mississippi 94, Ohio St. 32, N. Illinois 25, UCLA 21, Colorado 17, James Madison 14, Kansas 14, Holy Cross 13, Clemson 8, Kansas St. 8, Connecticut 7, West Virginia 7, Bowling Green 6, Southern Cal 6, California 5, Illinois 5, Kentucky 4, NE Louisiana 4, Toledo 3, Utah 3, Montana 2, St. Mary's-Cal 2, Florida St. 1, Michigan St. 1, Penn St. 1, San Diego 1. 
sophomore. 

Kicker-Jason Hanson, Washington St., 6-0, 175, sophomore. Defense 
Volleyball (14-17) Wide receivers-Clarkston Hines, Duke, 6-1, 170, senior; Terance Defensive linemen-Moe Gardner, Illinois, 6-2, 242, junior; Tim Ryan, Notre Dame def. Bowling Green, Mathis, New Mexico, 5-9, 167, senior. Southern Cal, 6-5, 260, senior; Chris Zorich, Notre Dame, 6-1, 268, 15-8, 8-15, 15-12, 15-11 Quarterback-Andre Ware, Houston, 6-2, 205, senior. junior. Notre Dame def. Western Running backs -Anthony Thompson, Indiana, 6-0, 209, senior; Linebackers -Alfred Williams, Colorado, 6-6, 230, junior; Percy Michigan, 8-15, 6-15, 16-14, 15-7, Johnny Bailey, Texas A&l, 5-9, 180, senior; Emmitt Smith, Florida, 5-10, Snow, Michigan St., 6-2, 224, senior; Keith McCants, Alabama, 6-5, 15-6 200, junior. 256, junior; Andre Collins, Penn St., 6-2, 225, senior. Texas A&M def. Notre Dame, 11-Offensive linemen-Michael Tanks, Florida St., 6-1,260, senior; Defensive backs-Mark Carrier, Southern Cal, 6-1, 185, junior; Chris 15, 15-17, 14-16 Mohammed Elewonibi, Brigham Young, 6-5, 290, senior; Chris Port, Oldham, Oregon, 5-9, 185, senior; Todd Lyght, Notre Dame, 6-1, 181, 
Men's basketball (1-0) Duke, 6-7, 280, senior; Joe Garten, Colorado, 6-3, 280, senior; Eric junior; Tripp Wellborne, Michigan, 6-1 , 193, junior. Notre Dame 84, San Francisco 64 Still, Tennessee, 6-3, 283, senior. 
Punter~ Tom Rouen, Colorado, 6-3, 220, · · 
The Main Laundromat 
DAR~ JO~D·VS 
1518 North Main Street 
Mishawaka
at 

This Thursday: 
259-6322 
Hours: 7:30a.m.-9:00p.m. -7 days a week 
N1GHTCLUB 
WASHERS ONl'I 85¢
PROGRESSIVE MUSIC NIGHT 
Tuesday: FREE Tide in every wash Wednesday: Drop-off -40¢ per pound Thursday: Tanning -$3.00 per session
10:00-11 :30 
Pick-up, wash, dry, fold, deliver SAME DAY SERVICE 

page 12 The Observer Wednesday, November 29, 1989 
No.8 lllini beat Rebels; Temple edges Penn 
OXFOHD, Miss. (AP) Kendall Gill scored 23 points and Marcus Liberty added 16 to lead No. 8 lllinois to an 83-72 victory over Mississippi Tues­day on night. 
Aft.-r a dosP opPning 15 min­utes. the Fighting lllini went on a 12-2 run to tak.-a 41-32 half­time lead. Illinois, playing its SIHlson opPner. never trailed in the second half and led by as much as 20 points. 
Freshman Joe I larvell pacrd the Hebds with 23 points and senior Gerald Glass added 20 for Mississippi, which fell to 0­2 before a sellout erowd of 8,439 at Tad Smith Coliseum. 
Illinois. the first Big 10 Con­fernnce school to ever play at the Oxford campus. took the lead for good. 31-30, on Lib­erty's layup with 4:16 to go in the first half. 
Temple 55, Penn 54 

Mark Macon scored 21 points and 7 -foot sophomore Donald I lodge scored all 11 of his points in the second half as I 6th-ranked and heavily fa­vored Temple squeezed by city rival Pennsylvania 55-54 Tues­day night. 
The Owls never led by more than five in the second half, n~aching 47-42 on a 3-point shot by Mik Kilgore with 11:57 to play. 
Temple, in their season opmwr, went ahead 55-52 on two fnw throws by Duane Causwell at the 2:06 mark. 
Penn's Paul Chambers hit a jumper with 1:40 remaining for the game's final points. 
Pitt 101, Siena 89 

Brian Shorter led thrne Pitts­burgh 20-point scorers with 29 points and the 18th-ranked Panthers beat Siena 101-89 Tuesday night, avenging an upset loss to the Saints last season. 
Darelle Porter. subbing for the injurPd Sean Miller at point guard. had 21 points -includ­ing 15 in a 56-point Panthers' first half -and Bobby Martin added 21 in Pitt's season-open­ing victory. 
Pitt wPnt on a 9-2 run to turn a three-point edge into a 48-38 lead late in the first half. then upped the margin to 14 on Shorter's breakaway dunk to start the second half. 
The Saints, coming off a 25-5 season in which they upset Stanford in the NCAA tclllrna­ment, cut the lead to six points stweral times in the final 10 
minutes  before  Pitt  regained  
the  momentum  with  two  key  
plays by Porter.  

With Pitt leading 84-78, Shorter scored off Porter's fe11d. The 6-4 Porter then hit a free throw before dunking over the 6-11 Steve Downey on a breakaway and adding a free throw for a three-point play that made it 90-78. Georgia Tech 87, 
Richmond 74 Dennis Scott scored 30 points and freshman standout Kenny Anderson added 24 points, nine assists and five steals to lead No. 21 Georgia Tech to an 87­74 victory over Hichmond on Tuesday night. 
Tech (2-0) blew leads of nine and 14 points before finally putting the Spiders away. 
After trailing 16-7, Richmond (0-2) tied the game 26-26 on Kenny Atkinson's running jumper from the lane with 6:40 left in the half. Scott then scored eight points in a 22-9 spurt that enabled the Yellow Jackets to open up a 48-35 halftime lead. 
Johnny McNeil came off the bench to hit a pair of free throws that started Tech on a 20-5 run and the Yellow Jackets took control of the _game. 
Oklahoma St. 94, North Texas 66 Hoyce Jefferies scored 21 points as 23rd ranked Okla­homa State, playing without leading scorer Hichard Dumas, opened its season with a 94-66 victory over the University of North Texas on Tuesday night. 
Dumas is serving a one-game suspension because he missed a team curfew. Bryon Houston scored 17 points and Corey Williams and John Potter addea 16 each for the Cowboys. 
The Eagles also were minus a key part of their offense -6-8 255-pound center Ronnie Mor­gan. 
******************* 

--AHERS 
720 W. EDISON, MISHAWAKA Between Hickory and Grape 255-2001 
• 
153 Macblnn * 4·50 Lb. Wuh1n *Drlve·Up Window 

• 
hpertenced Drop·OII Laundrj Senlco I Fru Stumer * Attend1nl on Duly 11 all Tlmes·l a.m.-Midnlghl 


* 
Prolnalonal DIJ Cloulag Santee *Lighted Puking Lol • No Smoking Area 

* 
Lnlhor & Suodt Serrico *free CoHn 


¥-Student Discounts 20% oft Dry Cleaning 25 oft Top Load Washers 
with Sludenii.D. 

Art logos are not Official
1989 College Bowl Match-ups 

Gator Bowl Fresno St. vs Ball St. 
California Bowl 
West Virginia vs Clemson 
Saturday, Dec. 30, 8:00 p.m. (ESPNJ
Saturday, Dec.$, 4 p.m. (SpQri$Channel America) Fresno, CA 
JackSonville, FL 
Copper Bowl


· }?~ lndopendOOce Bowl 
Iii!
North Carolina St. vs Arizona. Tulsa vs Oregon 
Sunday, Dec. 31,8:00 p.m. (TBS)Saturday, Dec. 16, 8 p.m. (Mitlau) 

Tucson, AZShrevepott, LA 

~~~~~~----__;.~-------+-------:-:--c:--:-=---=··-----..~·--··· 

------~ Aloha Bowl" 
~ Hall of Fame Bowl• Michigan St. vs Hawaii 
Auburn vs Ohio St. 

Monday, Dec. 25, 3:30p.m. (ABC) Monday, Jan. 1, 1:00 p.m. (NBC)-Honolulu, HI Tampa, FL 
--------------·-----+------------~------............................ .. 
----_-AII·American Bowl Florida Citrus Bowl
n 
Duke vs Texas Tech. g Virginia vs Illinois 
Thursday, Dec. 28, 8:00p.m. (ESPN) Monday, Jan. 1, 1:30 p.m. (ABC) Birmingham, AL Orlando, FL
--------------·--------­
---·-·-­. . Uberty Bowl*

1[._/ Air Force vs Mississippi 
Thursday, Dec. 28. 8:00p.m. (Raycom) > /.. .. . Memp~is, Tenn. 
~·­

·.: Ai,;.·. ; Penn S~0~~·~~~m Young ~ Friday. Dec. 29, 8:00p.m. (ESPN) San Diego. CA 
.......... -...~.-_--P-itts~~=A&~-··· 
Saturday, Dec. 30, 12:30 p.m. (CBS) El Paso. TX 
~')8~ 
§~I---_I 
····----------·-··-........ ,--------
Cottoo Bowl'

Arkansas vs Tennessee 
Monday. Jan. 1, 1:30 p.m. (CBS) Dallas. TX 

Fiesta Bowl Nebraska vs Florida St. 
Monday, Jan. 1, 4:30p.m. (NBC) Tempe, AZ 
Rose Bowl Michigan vs Southern Cal 
Monday. Jan. 1, 5:00p.m. (ABC) Pasadena, CA 
Freedom Bowl  ~  Sugar Bowl"  
Washington vs Florida  . xx~  Miami vs Alabama  
_ _  .  Saturday, Dec 30, 2:00p.m. (NBC)  Monday, Jan. 1, 7:300 p.m. (ABC)  
Anaheim, CA  New Orleans, LA  


Orange Bowl Colorado vs Notre Dame 
Monday, Jan. 1, 8:00p.m. (NBC) Miami, FL 
'Bowl teams are tenative pending WAC and SEC Champions. APtMartha P. Hernandez 
SPORTS BRIEFS Sailing Club will meet at 6:30 p.m. Wednes­Rowing Club will hold a mandatory mePt­day in 204 ()'Shag. All members should at­ing for tho Pntirn tPam at 7::{0 p.m. Wedrws­tend. day in 104 O'Shag. Off-campus hockey will havn a meeting for Free skate will btl lwld aftpr Friday's those intnrested in being on the team at 5:30 hoekny ganw against Mankato StatP. Tlw frne p.m. Thursday in O'Hara Lounge of Lafor­skatn will bngin immediatnly following tlw tune. Call 271-8309 for more information. 7:30p.m. game and last until 11 p.m.  
Question: How do you reach over 12,000 people daily? Answer: Buy Observer ad space.  

You are Cordially Invited to a Company Presentation 
by 
Eli Lilly and Company 
on 
"Financial Career Opportunities and Challenges in a World-Class Life Sciences Company" 
Thursday, November 30, 1989 
Alumni Room Morris Inn 
7:00 pm • 9:00 pm 
Reception following presentation 
Open to students majoring in: Finance, Economics, and ALPA 

Wednesday. November 29. 1989 The Observer page 13 
Irish men's volleyball gets a jump on spring season 
Although their season is not until the spring, the men's vol­leyball team got a good indica­tion of how suc­cessful they can be after action 


o v n r t h e Mike Kamradt 
Thanksgiving Club Corner break. The 
Irish  took  a  
fourth  place  in  
the Big  

Ten Invitational at Michigan State, and then place 11th out of 16 in a highly competitive Can­adian tournament. 
Sixteen teams competed at the Big 10 Invitational. and al-though Ohio State was the only varsity team. the competition level was high. The tour­nament was divided into four pools and the Irish had Ohio State, Illinois, and Toledo in their pool. The Irish split a two-game match with eventual champion Ohio State. In that match. the Irish dropped the first game 15-5, but rebounded to beat the Buckeyes in a tight game, 15-13. Notre Dame played in the consolation champi­onship after the pool play, but the Irish lost a hard fought match to Miehigan State (16-14, 7-15. 11-15). 
The veteran players for the Irish playPd big roles in the tournament. 
Senior Mike Sheedy led the offensive attack with 60 kills. Junior Pedro Ne­malceff played a key role in many of those and other kills as he racked up 175 assists for the tournament including a whopping 52 in the match against Michigan State. Tom Martin contributed 20 blocks (9 solo) and Paul Dimieri chipped in 47 digs. 
The following weekend was no let up for the Irish as they headed north of the border to play in a tournament where all but two of the teams were varsity teams, not to mention the fact 
that the Canadian teams were in the peak of their season. This didn't faze the Irish as they raised their game a level, and beat one of the top Canadian teams in the tournament. NO defeated Laurentian in a grueling five game match 14-16, 15-10, 3-15, 15-11.15-13. 
"I think for the future this tourna­ment was a positive note," commented coach Bill Anderson. "We played well, but we still have work to do if we are going to continue to compete with var­sity teams." 
The Irish certainly showed their mental toughness as the came back from a 2-1 deficit in the match. Notre Dame was once again led by its up­perclassmen. Martin had the game winning kill in each win over Lauren­tian and Sheedy blasted home 17 kills. Nemalceff continued his steady play with 53 assists in the match while Jim 
Jeffry added 41 kills for the tourna­ment. "Our older players play very well to­gether," observed Anderson. 
The Irish also got key contributions from the freshmen in the Laurentian win as Dan Cavanaugh came off the bench to serve and Steve McSeley had four big kills. 
"Our young guys came in and played well," praised Anderson. "This is probably the best young talent we've ever had." 
The Irish showed Michigan State how much difference a week makes as they swept the Spartans 15-8, 15-6, 15-11. 
"In the past we never won a game there before," explained co-captain Sheedy. "This year we won two matches and took a few other games too, so it says a lot for the strength of program at this point." 
The Sailing Club wrapped up a very successful season with a strong finish in the Tinney Angston regatta at the Chicago Yacht Club. The Irish place 14th in the eighteen team field that in­cluded such national powers as Old Dominion, which won the regatta, as well as Tulane and Navy. 
"I was happy with the finish," said president Paige Cooper. "We finished fifth out of the nine Midwest schools so that looks pretty good for us." 
The Irish out-pointed Ohio State, Purdue. Iowa, and Minnesota while falling just behind Miami of Ohio. Notre Dame was the only team in the regatta with an all-women team. 
"The men on the teams we finished ahead of weren't too happy," said Cooper. 
Cooper and teammate Betsy Lewis finished 12th in the A division. The pair experienced firsthand the 45 de­gree water of Belmont Harbor as their boat was capsized by another boat in one of the races. In the B boat, skipper Patti Loesinske and crew Moira Sullivan could only manage a 16th place. Still, the Club feels confident about the results. 
"This gives us a lot of confidence for the spring season," commented Cooper. 
.... 

The Equestrian Club participated in the Ball State Horse Show Nov. 17 and 18. The Irish team placed four people in the competition: Matt Burke placed sixth and Karen Voltura finished third in the beginning Western competition. and Becky Barnes finished second and Christine Taase fourth \n Beginning Walk-Trot in the Hunt Seat. 
"We have a young team and a small team, but we'relooking ahead to the future," said Larissa Wenning, Equestrian Club Secretary 
This is a Keith Robinson pressed with the play of his de­But San Francisco would pull playing with renewed confi­fense. Notre Dame's point no closer than that. The Irish. dence, renewed vigor. If the guard duo of Tim Singleton and who substituted in a more reg­
Robinson Hoops 
continued from page 16 continued from page 16
Irish are to be successful, Bennett effectively their San ular fashion during the second Hobinson knows he will need to and career-high 26 points. Francisco counterpart, Kevin half, led by as many as 23 
The points will be forever in join Fredrick and Jackson as a "For Hobinson to play as well Bell, from the Dons' offense. points, though they only shot the box scom. but they will not catalyst, especially with Ellis on as he did, that was really With the point guard out of 40 percent in the final 20 min­bn thP lingPring impression of the sidelines. needed," said Phelps. sync, the Dons committed 29 utes. this night. Freshman Monty Williams turnovers (19 in the first half). "In the second half, we closed 
Visibility means other teams also was in double figures with "We forced other people to it to 13 a couple of times, and 
That came late in the first may key on him. But those 12 points. In his first game, the handle the ball," said Phelps. they would hit the big shot or half wtwn Hobinson. the quiet teams still have to stop him, forward/guard from Oxen Hills; "It took them out of their take it inside to shut us down," and shy kid who wants to re-something the Dons found dif-Md., committed five turnovers rhythm." said Brovelli. "Notre Dame can main in the shadows of the ficult-if not impossible-to do. but shot 4-of-4 from the field. San Francisco went on a 9-1 beat you many ways. They have Fredricks and the Jacksons, Senior walkon Tim Crawford spurt to open the second half, the power inside, the quickness was calling-make that He also knows the next test is also saw action and scored cutting Notre Dame's lead to outside and great shooters. scn~aming-for someorw to not that far away. four points, making a baseline 11 at 49-38. Senior forward Usually a team only has one of throw him the ball. lie knew he jumper and hitting two free Joel DeBortoli scored seven of these strengths and you can de­was hot and knew he could Louisville's Pelton Spencer is throws in the final minute. his team-high 17 points in that fense against it, but not Notre scon•. waiting in the Hoosier Dome. Phelps was particularly im-span. Dame." ~...................................................................................................................................................................................................... Said Phelps, "We started get­
,
ting a little complacent in the

~ ACT NQWI TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS BY: Offlclalagencyofthe ~ 
second half, but we didn't lose ~ • • • • Travelmore/Ask Mr. Foster University of Notre Dame ~ our composure or our poise. In ~ Space IS limited. Phone: 2'19-239-7080 Lower Level LaFortune ~
J-...............................,......... ................................................. Items 
continued from page 16 

~ The following Is the list of the air only ~ ~ space held for the Orange Bowl: ~ blew it. he knows it, but tonight 
on the bench talking to the

! SCHI!DU~ 1: AIR FARE $340.00 ;ill ~ South Bend ChartBf to Miami -D9C9mber 29 • January 2 ~ guys, he's in the locker room talking to the guys and the 
;ill SCHEDULE 2' AIR FARE $238.00 SCHEDULE 7: AIR FARE $296.00 SCHEDUL£ 11: AIR FARE $305.00 ~ 
players respect him for it."

~ SATURDAY, DECEMBER 30 SUNDAY, DECEMBER 31 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 211 ~ ~~ Leave Phrladelphia a:~ a.m. Pan Am 7~ 1 Leave Chicago O'Hare 7.40 8 m United 988 Leave Ch6cago O'Hare 8:00 Lm. United 854 ~ ~ Arrive Miam 11:34 a.m. Arrive Miami 11:36 a:m: An1ve Washington Dulles 6:45 a.m. ~ 
the men's ~ Leave Miami 7:25a.m. Pan Am 710 Leave Miami United 139 Arrtve West Palm Beach 11:49 a.m. ~ basketball team's only fresh­"-! Arrlve Philadelphia 9:55 a.m. Arrive Chicago O'Hare ~~~ ::~: ;IIIII 
;ill THURSDAY, JANUARY 4 FRIDAY, JANUARY 5 Leave Washington Dulles 9:10a.m. United 1107 ! Monty Williams, 
man this season, arrived at

FRIDAY, JANUARY 5 ~ 
SCHEDULE 3: A!R FARE $290.00 SCHEDULE 8: AIR FARE $298.00 Leave· Fort Lauderdale 9:15a.m. Unhed 1132 ;ill Notre Dame with much less ac­SATURDAY, DECEMBER 30 SATURDAY, DECEMBER 31 Amve Washington Dulles 11:36 a.m. ~~ 
~ 
Leave Washington National 9:00a.m. Pan Am 493 claim than Ellis, but Phelps was 
~ ~ Arrive Mlam 11 :34 a.m. Leave Chicago O'Hara 11:1.5 a.m. United 220 ~ An1ve Washington Dulles 1:53 p.m. Leave Washington Dulles 1:~ p.m. United 211 ;1111111 singing his praises after Tues­
~ 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 4 Un'i1ed 1535 Amve Chicago O'Hare 2:48p.m. ~ day's 84-64 win over San Fran­Leave Miami 7:35 a.m. Pan Am 492 Leave Washington Oulkts 5:05p.m. 
;11111111 
;ill Arrive Washington National 10,02 a.m. Amve Miami 7:49p.m. SCHEDULE 12: AIR FARE $216.00 ~~ cisco. ~ FRIDAY, JANUARY 5 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 29 SCHEDULE 4: AIR FARE $330.00 Leave Miami 12,35 p.m. United 129 Leave New York LaGuardia 7:00a.m. Unhed 1147 ;jjl ;ill ~ SATURDAY, DECEMBER 30 Amve Chicago O'Hare 2:39p.m. An1ve Washington Dulleo 8:13a.m. ~ "That kid continues to amaze ~ Leave St. Louis 1:50 p.m. EastBfn 277~;ill me because of his versatility," Arrive Atlanta 4:34P.M. SCHEDULE a: AIR FARE $318.00 ;:::F~:~~:~:lles ~:: ::~: United 1165 ~
~1 Phelps said of the 6-7 for­
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 28 Leave Atlanta 5:50p.m. Eastern 90 Leave Los Angeles 12 noon United 1110 ~ ward/guard from Oxen Hills,
~ FRIDAY, JANUARY 5 
;IIIII Arrlve Miami 7:40 p.m. Arrive San Francisco 1:24 p.m. 
~ Leave Fort Lauderdale 5:15p.m. Unhed 1SS7 ;ill Md. "He's handling the ball, deflecting balls, getting offen­
~ TH~e~e~A~~~NUARY 4 8:25a.m. Eastern 156 ~"':: t!:::Jranclsco 1~:~ ~:~: United aeo Amve Washington Dulles 6:45p.m. Un"-&1"76 ~ 
Amve Atlanta 11 ,26 a.m. Leave Washington Dulles 9:35 p.m. ·-v ~ sive rebounds. I'm not going to An1ve New York LaGuardia 10:43 p.m. ;ill
~ 
SATURDAY, JANUARY 6 ~ wake him up till April." Leave Atlanta 12:16 p.m. Eastern 272 Leave Miami 7:40a.m. United 767 SCHEDULE 13, AIR FARE $2 ;ill
~ 16.
00 
~ Arrive St. Louis 1:00 p.m. Amve San Francisco 10:49 a.m. FRIDAY, DECEMBER 29 ~~ 
Williams scored 12 points

AIR F E S F Leave Washington Dulles 9:05 a.m. Untt.d 1165 
~ 
SCHEDULE 5·. AR $280.00 Leave an ranclsco 12 noon United 806 ;1111111 SATURDAY, DECEMBER 30 Amve Los Angeles 1:11 p.m. Amve Fort 'Lauderdale 11:36 a.m. ~ with five turnovers Tuesday 
Leave New York LaGu8fdla 10:00 a.m. Eastern 15 ~ night. Phelps is most pleased;ill~ Arrive Miami 12:55 p.m. SCHEDULE 10: AIR FARE $318.00 FRIDAY, JANUARY 5 ~ ~ THURSDAY, DECEMBER 26 Leave Fort Lauderdale 5:15p.m. Unned 1557 ~ with the way Williams can han­
660 dle the ball for a big player. 
! FA~:!:~~;:: :Guardia ~::; ~--~ Eastern 18 ~= t!:.Fran~sco 1 ~:~ ~:~: United sc:::~:~ton Dulles 8:45p.m. ~
1 

~ SATURDAY, JANUARY 6 Discounts are available on U.S.Air nights from all their d1loo ID ;ill "I have confidence in him," ~ SCHEDULE s: AIR FARE $270.00 Leave Miami 7 Unhed 767 Miami, Fort Lauderdale and West Palm Beach. Travel valid De-~ 
said Phelps. "It's almost like the 

;jjj SATURDAY, DECEMBER 30 Amve San Francisco 1d:~ ~.~. cember 21 to January 6. Call for details. ~ 
Magic (Johnson) concept; he

i '::~:: M~hlngton National ~:~ ~:~: EastBfn 111 ~ 
throws over people. That's a ~ plus for us if we have a big
~ THURSDAY. JANUARY 4 
forward who can handle the

~ '::~:: ~~=ngton National 1~:;; ~~~ ~ ~
Eastern 172 

ball. lie's going to make mis­takes, but that's because he's a ~ Other Packages Available -Ask for Details ~ freshman. He played 18 solid
L......................................................................................................................................................................................................~ minutes (Tuesday)." 
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, November 29, 1989 
Coaches falling like flies: Claiborne resigns, Morton fired 
I.I~XINGTON. Ky. (/\1') ­.!PITY Claiborrw. who was 41­46-:J in Pight yPars as KPn­turky's football eoarh, urwx­pt>t'tedly resigned Ttwsday, ar­eording to a broadcast report. 
WLEX-TV in Lexington n~­ported that a 4 p.m. Jo:ST news ronfPnmce had l>nen eallt~d to announcl' thP resignation. Uni­VI'rsity ofl'icials would neither confirm nor deny tlw mport of Claiborne's resignation but did confirm that tlw news confer­PrH:e had bt>en srlwduiPd. 
Claibornl' could not irnnwdi­ately lw reached for comment. 
Claibornn. 61, was fourth among active NCAA Division I­A roaches in victories with 179, trailing only Michigan's Bo Seht>mbechler (2:Hl. Penn Statl''s .lol' Paterno (219) and Florida State's Bobby Bowdl'n (I 1J..I.). llis overall n~corcl of 17')-122-H ranked in thn Top 20 for earner winning pnrct'ntage. 
Claiborrw, a 1950 graduate of Kenturky. began his head roaching rari'Pr at Virginia Tnch in I961. lie was 6 I -39-2 in I 0 years and took the llokies to tlw Lilwrty Bowl in 196(, and 

II)(,H. 

Following a one-year stint as an assistant coach at Colorado under Eddil' Crowder in 1971, Cl<tibonw took the top job at Maryland. In 10 seasons with the Terrapins. lw compiled a 77-37-3 rl't:nrd which included seven bowl appearances. 
llowevN. Kentueky had fallen on hard tinws since then, never winning more than five games until going 6-5 this season. 
Still, Kentucky ll'd tlw league in 1\rademi<: All-Southeastern Conferl'nCI' selections under Claiborrw with 68, and tlw Wildcats won the prestigious CFA /\cadPmic Achiever111~nt Award last year for graduating 90 percent of their seniors. 
Don Morton, who managed 


Don Morton 
only six victories in his three seasons, was lin~d Tuesday as the head football coach at the University of Wisronsin. 
The school's Athletic Board voted 10-0 with one abstention to remove Morton. UW Chan­cellor Donna Shalala accepted the board's recommendation to 

Campbell resigns as Falcon coach 
Plummeting Pats give Berry vote of confidence 
SUWANEE, Ga. (/\PI -Mar­ion Campbell ended a 28-year N Fl. eoaching career Tuesday by retiring as head coach of the Atlanta Falcons, mired in last plaee in the NFC West. Assis­tant Jim llanifan was named coach for the remaining four games. 
"I have chosen this avenue to dear the picture for the owner­ship to get on with the future of their franchise," Campbell said in a prepared statement re­leased about an hour before llanifan was named interim coach. 
".Jim was kind of the obvious one." Vice President Taylor Smith said of the selection of llanifan, who won't be consid­ered for the pPrmanent job. 
"We'll be going outside the organization for a coach," Smith said at a news confer­enec. "We're approaching this that nobody on the present roaching staff will be consid­ered for the job. They've been informed. They're all staying on. llopefully they will be con­sidemd by the new coaeh when­Pver he's hired." 
llanifan, who was a head coach for six years with the St. Louis Cardinals, said his goal is to have the Falcons "competitive for the next four weeks, and it's a tough row we have to hoe." 
Thn Falcons, 3-9, must face the San Francisco 49ers, Min­rwsota Vikings, Washington Hedskins and Detroit Lions in tlwir last four games. 
Campbell. 60, was on his sec­ond tour as the head coach of the Faleons and also coached the Philadelphia Eagles for three seasons. llis overall rncord was 34-80-1 in six full st'asons and portions of three othPrs. 
Campbell, who had left the Suwarwe training complex be­fore Smith's noon news confer­ence, said he had no plans for tlw future. 
In his statmnent. he said he discusst~d his retirement with tlw wam's owners Monday and told his staff and players of his decision TuPsday morning. 
"I feel that I am leaving a better football team than when I took over." Campbell said. "I told the team this morning that I hope they can get on with their business and be the best they can be." 
Atlanta has lost five of its 

last six games, leading to spec­ulation that Campbell would be fired at the end of the season. I lis three-year contract expires this year. 
Smith declined to say if that would have happened. but he said Campbell could have re­mained for the last four games had he desired. 
"He had a good grasp of the overall situation here," said Smith, son of team owner Hankin Smith Sr. "He also felt there would be more pressure over the last four weeks and bP a very difficult environment for us to make any progress in. 
"I think Marion did a great job," Smith said. "He laid a stepping stone for the future." 
Smith said the front office and Campbell realized "that we were not a very good football team" when he took the job for the second time following the firing of Dan Henning after the 1986 season. 
Campbell was no better than the fourth choice to replace Henning, but former Eagles' coach Diek Vermeil, New York Giants coach Bill Parcells and 
UCLA  coach  Terry  Donahue  
turned  down  offers  to  coach  
the Falcons.  

Campbell also was head coach of the Falcons from 1974-1976 and coached the Philadelphia Eagles from 1983­85. 
New England Patriots' owner Victor Kiam said Tuesday he plans to extend coach Haymond Berry's contract despite the team's 4-8 record and the team's worst start since 1981. 
"Berry is a very good eoach and he's staying,'' Kiam told Assoeiated Press Sports Edi­tors at their Northeast regional meeting. "I have every intention of extending Haymond Berry's contract." 
The Patriots face their first season since 1982 without selling out a single home game. The Patriots have filled Sullivan Stadium to less than 88 pereent of its capacity this year. 
Despite the team's lack of success on the field and at the box office, Kiam said he is pleased with the purchase he made in 1988. 
"The Patriots are a labor of love. I'm not going to make any rash deeisions. We are going to have ups and downs. And, yes, we've got some problems now." 

lire Morton and said tho school would exercise thl' reassign­ment elausn in his contrart. Morton has two years remain­ing on his five-yPar contract. 
Shalala said the decision to fire Morton was not based solely on his 6-27 record over the past three years. An ad hoe committeP fornwd to evaluate the football program rnportt~d that the Badgers. under Mor­ton, had not made tlw neces­sary progrnss to bncome a win­ner. 
"Our primary responsibility is to the student athletes. Wn be­lieve they deserve the bt~st coaching they can get. It is pos­sible to mount a competitive warn while playing within the rules. We have demonstrated that in other sports,'' said Sha­lala. 
"The judgment is that foot­ball has not made sufficient progress in the past three years in establishing a solid base and moving toward a comrwtitive position,'' she said. "Tiw win­loss rerord was not tlw dnf'id­ing factor." 
Wisconsin's athlPtic dPpart­nwnt fan•s a multi-million dol­lar budget delieit brought on. in part, by declining attendance at football games. 
The Badgers averagnd only 41,734 in tlwir 77,000-seat stadium this snason. That's tlw lowest since 1945. 
l·:arlier this month. 1\thiPtit: Director Ade Sponberg was forced to resign, efTectiw in 
May. 

Morton said hn should be given anotlwr year as eoarh be­
-cause tlw Badgers are ready to turn the corrwr. lin says hiring a new coach would only shake the stability of the program evPn more. "Wiwrwver you mak1~ a change, you're starting over," hfl said. 

llanifan, 56. had a 39-49 reeord with the Cardinals. 

Ch~es~ ~e~ameseand American Food Fresh Ingredients G.>29 t:ni\'cr~itl ComnH>rl' No Mass Productions ~outh lknd I·" 272-6702  
ATIENTION STUDENTS HOLIDAY HELP 8.10 WANTED STARTING PAY • Openings in Greater lndrana and Chicago Suburbs • All Majors Considered • Internships Possible • AASP Scholarships Awarded • Some Management Opponunrties • Excellent Business Experience • Full or Pan Time WHERE: O'HARE LOUNGE 1ST FLOOR, LAFORTUNE. Ifvnab/e to attendcallafter Wed WHEN: WED. NOV.29th 10-4 pm (219) 271-8699  

AP Photo 
An unidentified fan shows his support for the New England Patriots. 

-----~------------------------------"""1 
Wednesday, November 29, 1989 The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS 

Wednesday 
6:30 
p.m. Career and Placement Services workshop, "Focus on Your Career," by Jeff Rice and Marilyn Bury, Career and Placement Offices, Hesburgh Library. 

6:30 
p.m. Career and Placement Services workshop, "Office Visits and Plant Trip~." by Kitty Arnold, Hesburgh Library Lounge. 


7:30 p.m. "Intifada: A Personal and Political Perspec­tive," by Norman Finkelstein of Brooklyn College, Haggar Hall Auditorium. 
MENUS 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Stir fry Beef Beef Teriyaki BBQ Spare Ribs Peanut Chicken Stir Fry Eggplant Parmesan Vegetable Chow Mein Three Chese Croissant Deli Bar 
Help Prevent Birth Defects 
~ Support the 
~ MaJ.~DJ?!uQ.~wes 
ACROSS 
1 Gambol 
6 Look over 10 Paleozoic, etc. 14 Soap substitute 15 Caution 16 Caesar's 
farewell 11 Hackneyed 18 Dismounted 19 Emulate Greeley 20 Famous scenic 
valley 22 Baltic capital 23 Kind of case 24 Prime mover 26 Tell, e.g. 30 Yodeler's milieu 32 Ariella 33 Alben Barkley 
was one 35 Attendant 39 Dinner tray 41 Umbrageous 43 Perception 44 Loafer 46 Churchill's 
successor: 1955 47 Rhinestone 49 Hankering 51 Scanty 54 Fad 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
A R A M~A L M A A N E T 
I 0 T A B R I A N N E V E DONG ATTYS TREEADONI~~'i"WTHORN 
ov 
EIR S E R E 

R E S 
T ov 

I D HI B I SCUS~NROL L A G E D ';\:~'t E~O L I 0 
ROTA PEALS SPAR ERAL ERMA EERY 
CROSSWORD 
56 Saharan country 57 Cascade Range attraction 63Like-of 
• bricks 64Wad 65 Ancient Greek 
colony 66 Clique 67 Icelandic epic 68lnscribe 69 Duds 70 Hardy girl 71 Staggers 
DOWN 
1 Hacks 2 Nanking nurse 3 Corn bread 4 Fervor 5 Establish 
association &Oodles 
1 Skullcap 8 Diva's forte 9lnfernal 
10 Fla. wildlife refuge 11 Spokes 12 Straighten 13 Bristles 21 Audacity 25 Science program on PBS 


26 Vipers 27 Function 28 Group of 
families 29 Ark. spa 31-jure 34 Formerly, 
formerly 36 Napoleonic battle site 

37 Pitcher 38 Newcastle's river 40 Oolong and 
souchong 42 Privet's use 45 Harbingers 48 Esoteric 50 Stranger 51 Chic 
52 Courtyard 53 "Take Me-," 1959 song 55 Rand's "-­
Shrugged" 58 Teased 59 Isolated 60 Pay for a hand 61 Baltic Sea port 62 Corn units 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
jAY HOSLER 
G;f£ -Wrz. THAT!; TH€ I..A.\1 i111E :X: k-51< 

SoME ONE INVO~V£0 IW 5TUDEIIT G,OVEf/NMtNT Obscene duck call. WHAT TJI'IE rr /5. 

• 
Assistant Performing Arts Commissioner 
Applications available at the Secretary's Desk 2nd Floor LaFortune Turn in at the Secretary's Desk by 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Friday, December 1 , 1989 
.r:::·· . 
I 
t 
I 
f I I 
! ~ 
t 
~ 
I 
t 
I 
I 
• 
Sports
page 16 Wednesday, November 29, 1989 
Irish dominate Dons in opener 
84-64 JACC win avenges last season's upset 
"You can give 100 percent of yourself for five
By STEVE MEGARGEE 

Associate Sports Editor or six minutes and play as hard as you can be­
cause you know five more people will be ready 
For the Notre Dame men's basketball team, to come in," said center Keith Tower, who 
Tuesday night's season-opening 84-64 victory scored four points. "It helped us play more as a 
over San Francisco looked suspiciously familiar unit because the five of us had been playing to­
to an intrasquad scrimmage. gether in practice. I think the crowd liked it 
First, the "Green" team of starters Joe too." 
Fredrick. Jamere Jackson, Scott Paddock. Keith "Everybody came out and played harder be­
Robinson and Tim Singleton played the visiting cause we knew the next five players would re­
Dons to a 17-17 tie for the opening six minutes turn," said point guard Tim Singleton, who had 
of the game before giving way to the "White" a game-high nine assists. "It's going to make 
team. this team even tougher." 
"We were playing horribly and had to get it San Francisco, which had upset the Irish 79­
going," Fredrick said of the starters' early per­75 last season on the West Coast, managed to 
formance. "We took a breather and realized we stay with Notre Dame's starters for the first six 
hadn't done anything. We knew we had to go minutes. After the Irish reserves entered the 
back and make a run." game. point guard Elmer Bennett fed his "Texas 
The "White" team, which consists of reserves Express" partner Daimon Sweet for an alley­
Elmer Bennett, Kevin Ellery, Daimon Sweet, oop dunk that put the Irish ahead for good. 
Keith Tower and Monty Williams played the The Dons, 1-1, managed to stay close for 
next six minutes and gave the Irish a 29-25 lead most of the first half, thanks to the pinpoint 
with 6:35 left in the half. shooting of Kevin Ellis. The senior guard shot 
That made it time for a rested Green team to 3-of-3 in the first half, including two three­
return, and the starters put the game away by point shots. Notre Dame led 33-27 with 5:19 to 
halftime . .Just as Fredrick had hoped, the Green play until the intermission. 
Machine went on a 19-4 run. including a 12-0 That's when Fredrick and Keith Robinson 
stretch at one point. to put Notre Dame up 48-took control. The Irish went on a 12-0 run, with 
29 at halftime. The Irish, ranked 19th in the Fredrick scoring 10 of those points and Robin­
country, only had to eoast for the final 20 min­son adding two free throws. Fredrick finished 
utes. with 15 points on the night. 
"I have confidence in both units, and they both "We got very tentative," San Francisco coach 
did a good job," said Irish coach Digger Phelps, Jim Brovelli said of the 12-0 run. "We were 
who improved his record in season openers to standing around flat-footed and didn't play 
14-5. "They have confidence in each other be­well. It's a credit to Digger's pressure that took 
cause they go up against each other every day. us out of what we wanted to do." 
"I want the guys to run; I told the guys not to Robinson, taking up the slack inside while 
rest. I want them to bust it for six minutes, then LaPhonso Ellis sits out the first semester due to 
we'II get other guys to bust it for six minutes." academic ineligibility, shot 5-of-6 in the first 
The Irish players also seemed to appreciate half and finished 1 0-nf-11 shooting for a game The Notre Dame basketball team tipped off its season with a the wholesale substitution pattern used in the convincing 20-point win over the San Francisco Dons at the Joyce first half. see HOOPS I page 13 ACC. 
Robinson shoots 10-of-11, pours in 26 points in win 

By GREG GUFFEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Last season, Notre Dame men's basketball coach Digger Phelps named forward Keith Robinson to his "All Invisible Team." Robinson scored the points and got the rebounds on a consistent basis, but nobody seemed to take notice. 
In Notre Dame's season­opener Tuesday night against San Francisco, the invisible man became a visible force in the Irish fronteourt. 
Hobinson scored a career­high 26 points and pulled down six rebounds to pace the Irish to an 84-64 victory over the Dons. More impressively, he hit 1 0-of-11 field goals and 6-of-7 free throws. 

"He's a very quick and strong guy inside," San Francisco coach Jim Brovelli said. "He's greatly improved. We didn't have a big, strong, agile guy like him inside to match up." 
With sophomore forward LaPhonso Ellis ineligible for at least the first six games, Phelps knew someone up front would need to turn in better than av­erage performances. 
Robinson turned in a domi­nating one against San Fran­cisco. 
"I felt like it was going to be a physical game," Robinson said. "I thought they were going to push me around. I had to move to get open. The players were looking for me down low and it just worked out well." 
Robinson was determined to start the season on a positive note. He scored just six points on 3-of-10 shooting in 37 min­utes against Israel in Notre Dame's lone exhibition contest. 
"I really felt like I had a bad game against Israel," Robinson said. "I just wanted to go out and play well in the first game of the year." 

This game was one for Robinson to break out, to add some confidence to an Irish team filled with great expecta­tions. He made himself known early and often against the Dons. 
Robinson hit his first bucket with just over one minute gone in the game to give Notre Dame a 6-5 lead, an advantage the Irish would never relinquish. lie scored twice more in the next two minutes to boost the Irish lead to 15-10 and finished with 15 points in the half. 
Robinson turned in some plays that might have seemed out of place in previous years. 
With 6:19 to play. Robinson fed Tim Singleton on a fast break for an easy hoop. Then two minutes later, he stole the ball, dribbled upcourt, gave the ball up to Joe Fredrick and then completed the give-and-go with a layup. 
Robinson controlled the first five minutes of the second half. lie scored Notre Dame's first nine points of the half, mixing a slam with an inside power move, an outside jumper. a layup off a press-breaker and a free throw. That run extended Notre Dame's lead to 57-38. 
see ROBINSON I page 13 
If so-and-so beats so-and-so, and... 
Notre Dame always has had thtl reputation of being a thorn on Alabama's side. · 
In his legendary coaching career, Paul "Bear" Bryant only played and failed to de­feat two schools-Alabama and Notre Dame. Bryant-


coached Crimson Tide teams Steve Megargee 
lost to the Irish in the 1973 

Sugar Bowl and 1975 Orange Irish Items Bowl, with Alabama playing for the national title in both instances. Notre Dame's hex on Bryant caused one Alabama fan to mutter during the Iranian hostage crisis, ''I'd root for Iran before I'd root for Notre Dame." 
Alabama finally has an opportunity to turn the tables on the Irish this weekend. If the Crimson Tide get past arch-rival Auburn at Jordan-Hare Stadium this weekend, Notre Dame's dreams of defending its national title are a memory. 
But whether the Tide wins Saturday or not, the Irish are facing a major obstacle in their quest for a national championship. Make that about four ob­stacles. 
For Notre Dame to finish the season ranked first, all these things need to happen: 
•Auburn beating Alabama this Saturday 
•Whoever 
represents the Southeastern Conference (Alabama, Auburn or Tennessee) defeating Miami in the Sugar Bowl 

•Southern 
California topping Michigan in the Rose Bowl 

•Notre 
Dame soundly defeating Colorado in the Orange Bowl 


The optimistic types can believe that the third op­tion isn't necessary, thinking an Irish victory would leapfrog Notre Dame over a Michigan team it de­feated on the road early this season. But that might be expecting a little much from pollsters who aren't exactly elephants when it comes to remembering things that happen early in the year. 
Taking these four conditions into account, and as­suming there is a 50 percent chance of each one oc­curring (which might be a little generous), you have 16-1 odds against the Irish defending the title. 
So it might be time to start collecting rabbit's feet, searching for four-leaf clovers, crossing fingers and toes and knocking on wood. 
But with these kinds of odds facing the Irish, I wouldn't hold my breath. 
The Football Writers' Association came out with its All-America team earlier this week, and it in­cluded three Notre Dame players. 
Haghib "Hocket" Ismail made the team as a kick returner, Chris Zorich was on the defensive line and Todd Lyght was selected to the secondary. The ironic part of these honors is that none of the Irish All-Americans are seniors. 
Houston's Andre Ware was named the All-America quarterback. 
The 19th-ranked Notre Dame men's basketball team opened its season Tuesday night with star forward LaPhonso Ellis on the sidelines out of uni­form. 
Ellis, who is academically ineligible for the fall semester, may have been off the court, but Irish coach Digger Phelps certainly hasn't forgotten about him. 
"It will be like when we finally got to the mainland with the atomic bomb," Phelps said about Ellis' im­pending return to action. "That's what it will be like when he gets back. He's our Hiroshima, our Na­gasaki.He's just awesome in practice right now. The other day in a scrimmage, I just kept shaking my head. 
"If you don't exploit this place academically, it will force you to exploit the place academically," Phelps continued, in reference to his star's ineligibility. "He 
see ITEMS I page 13 


