
serv£r-
VOL. XXIII NO. 68 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Sec. of State Baker visits, offers East Germany U.S. support 
POTSDAM, East Germany (AP) -Secretary of State .lanws Baker ventured into East Germany on Tuesday and of­fered U.S. economic assistance to still another Soviet ally bent on reform. 
The bold and unprecedented visit to the site where the World War II Allies decided the future of a vanquished Germany was made after Baker sent a tele­gram to Moscow,. advising the Sovints of his intentions. 
In a 65-minute session with Prime Minister Hans Modrow and then a in separate talk in a 19th century church with Lutheran ministers. Baker reg­istered support for thn changes sweeping the one-time Stalinist state and said the Bush admin­istration was prepared to pro­vide the kind of help due Poland and Hungary as they turn to­ward market economies. 
But he emphasized that the change must be peaceful. U.S. officials said Baker was con­cerned that retribution against former Communist Party offi­cials could turn into uncontrol­!able violence with unpre­dictable consequences to its neighbors . 
Standing alongside Modrow at the conclusion of their meet­ing, Baker said they had talked about "the importance of mov­ing forward peaceably and in a stable way." 
"It is that, as much as any­thing else, that represents the political signal that we desire to send by being here today," Baker said. 
The prime minister, who was lifted by the changes in East Germany from a minor party post, told Baker the evolution in the country, which will lead to multiparty elections in May, was "irreversible," U.S. offi­cials said. 
Modrow's public statement was cautious. He said his ses­sion with Baker was the begin­ning of a dialogue that would turn out to be cooperative. 
Baker's visit to Potsdam, the site of a 1945 conference that set conditions for the post-
see BAKER I page 4 

Security identifies suspect in LaFortune break-in 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame Security has a suspect in the November 30 break-in of the LaFortune Student Center, said Rex Hakow. director of Security. 
"We are trying to locate the suspect," said Rakow. He would not say whether the suspect was an employee of the University. but said that the person is a "town per­son." 
The fingerprints and the blood samples taken from the building were sent to a lab and he said results take several weeks. 
John Moorman, director of maintenance, said that the original damage estimate was $1 ,600. Now however he estimates that figure to be $2,000. 
He said that the South Stair doors on second and third floors of the building must be replaced at a cost of $400 per door. 
The information desk on the first floor had a window broken, Moorman said. 
The office door and win­dow in Room 201 must be repaired, said Moorman. In Room 216, he said a large office wall window must be replaced and on the third floor of the building, a door window in Room 315 was broken. 
The exterior windows have 
already  been  replaced,  
Moorman  said.  Windows  
were  broken  at  the  

Travelmore agency in the basement and the North ramp door, he said. 
"We are in the process of doing all the repairs," said Moorman. He said the lead time for the door delivery is somewhat long, but he hopes they will be replaced "in the next couple of weeks." 

The Observer/Kyle Sanders
Building into the '90's 
The new ROTC begins to take shape as construction on the new buildings on the east side of Juniper Road winds down. The ROTC and Band buildings will the be the first new construction of the '90's. 
ND activities planned for '90's 

By SANDRA WIEGAND 
News Writer 
Increased travel sponsorship, concert sponsorship, and fac­ulty involvement in extracurric­ular events are some changes students can look forward to in the 1990s, according to Joe Cassidy, director of Student Ac­tivities. 
Student Activities sponsored trips to athletic events and to foreign countries will be more common, he said. A summer trip to Europe in 1990 has been planned, and travel discounts and arrangements for the Or­ange Bowl will mark the first sponsorship of travel to an athletic event, as "there seems to be a demand there." said Cassidy. 
Concerts by progressive groups which draw smaller crowds will be held in Stepan Center, he said, and an effort will be made to arrange activi­ties which complement the aca­demic side of Notre Dame. 
"There's so much you can learn through experience," said Cassidy, "You can learn about something in a classroom, but to experience it gives you a much broader perspective." 

In conjunction, Cassidy men­tioned faculty help with student businesses, media, and organi­zations. 
The DeBartolo Center for Performing Arts, scheduled to be completed in 1992, will also have an impact on student ac­tivities, Cassidy said. 
The center's targets are the­atre and music, he said, and the new center will accommodate acts that otherwise might not appear in Washington Hall for lack of time. 
"We're starting to see an in­crease in student groups doing their own theatrical and musi­cal performances." said Cas­sidy. 
Additional buildings to ap­pear in the '90s include the ·Hesburgh Center Tor Interna­tional Studies, the DeBartolo classroom building, a new business school, and new grad­uate student housing. 
The Hesburgh CentPr for In­ternational Studies will house, among other things, the Helen Kellogg Institute for Interna­tional Studies and the Institute for International Peace Studies, according to Father William Beauchamp, executive vice president of Notre Dame. 
The center will consist of three buildings. One building will be made up of apartments for resident scholars, a second will have office space, and a third will have meeting rooms for the general public, said Beauchamp. 
The Hesburgh buildings should be completed in about a year, he said; the classroom building by 1992, and the busi­ness school around 1994. Addi­tional graduate housing should be built around 1992, Beauchamp said. 
Cars of the '90's will have changed look, performance 
DETROIT (API -It's 7:16 
a.m. on Tuesday, March 19, 1996. 
You've finished a light break­fast and head toward the garage. You fish out a key chain from your pocket as you walk, push a button on a poker-chip size disk. 
The garage door opens. 
Inside sits the vehicle you bought two months ago for about $24,000. There is no dis­cernible joint between any of the windows and the plastic body parts. The car is a pastel blue, and sleek. 
Like the minivans of the last decade, the car can be used to haul dozens of bags of gro­ceries, a Little League team or baggage for a family vacation. 
Unlike the popular vehicles of the mid-and late 1980s, it is much more powerful, cleaner­running and more fuel-efficient. 
America's wheels in the 1990s probably won't be the stuff of cartoons and designers' dreams. The changes may come more in the materials they are made of and in what powers them than in what they look like. 
Automakers are working hard to shrink the time it takes to bring a car from a drawing board to the end of the assem­bly line. Consumers will find changes coming faster than ever as companies react more quickly to the marketplace. 

· Auto industry executives and observers predict the line be­tween trucks and cars will al­most disappear as the designs for each converge and the gov­ernment moves toward stan­dardizing safety requirements for both classes of vehicles. 
As you approach the vehicle, you push another button on the disk. 
The car's interior lights come on. Its engine starts. 
The driver's seat and back adjusts for you. The head/amps turn on. The radio comes to life, scanning to your favorite station and locking it in. 
The cellular phone on the console switches on, waiting for your instruction to call the office. 
A television-like screen lights up. It shows you walking up behind your own car. 
Advanced features in the cars of the 1990s will be limited mostly by the pocketbook. The technology is available today, and will be refined in the next few years, to make many things possible in a vehicle. 
But one of the main factors in 
owning a  car  -price  - will  
come into play.  
"Is  it  feasible?  Yes,"  said  

Tom Gale, vice president for design at Chrysler Corp. "Is it there for the masses? I think you have to step back and take a look at cost, market trends and regions of the country. 
"I don't think we're going to see the explosion in the number of gadgets we've had," Gale 
see AUTOS I page 4 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Honor Code's two standards are unfair 
We sometimes fool ---------------­ourselves into believ­ing in justice as im­
Bradford
partial, yet the freshman class of this Boehm esteemed University Graphic Artist finds itself subjected to a double standard. 
Head carefully into 

the infamous Honor Code and see what I ---------­mean. 
Appendix A of the llonor Code describes the policies concerning English papers. A doser look shows that this policy only deals with freshmen and the Freshman Writing Program. 
Father Oliver Williams, assistant provost and coordinator of the University Code of I Ionor Committee, said this policy was im­plemented before the Honor Code and applies to all students at Notre Dame. Upperclassmen trying to follow these rules might overlook this section because it dearly addresses freshmen. 
Secondly, Appendix A does not include any information regarding assignments other then papers. A student from any class can submit and re-submit computer programs (or parts thereof) for different classes, such as two levels of the same programming language; projects for classes such as architecture or art; or designs for a studio or a design class. 
In other words, it is entirely acceptable to hand in twice work other then papers. Williams said the reasoning behind not pre­senting the same paper was due to a belief that the student should go through the learning process involved in writing a paper. But isn't there scholarship involved in the creation of a project for any of these other courses? 
If upperclassmen are ever called to a I Ion or Code hearing on this subject they can truthfully say that it does not apply to them. 
This Appendix also does not go far enough to explain modified papers. It does not, for example, say whether one can reuse a work cited page or thesis statement. What about rewriting a fictional paper with the same theme? The slim Code of Ilonor pamphlet does not address these issues. 
On an extreme, the Department of English, which "developed and approved... these principles," insists that this resubmission of papers is plagiarism. I never though I would have to tell the Department of English this but ... ] According to the Oxford American Dictionary, plagiarism is "to take and use another person's ideas or writings or inten­tions as one's own." The use of a person's own paper is surely not infringing on the ideas, writings, etc., of a professor. The words, ideas and intentions are all the stu­dent's own. 
Williams said the Honor Code Committee has been meeting every other week to amend the Honor Code. 
Here is some advice to that committee: please make a code that is comprehensively fair by including all upperclassmen, clear about what is and is not permissible and concise so we don't have to decipher the code. 


cc_The_ Obser:ver-
P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
(219)·239-7471  
Tuesday's Staff  
News Florentine Hoelker  Production Joe Zadrozny  Graphics Bradford J. Boehm  
Janice O'Leary  Greg Tice  

John O'Brien  
Amy Leroux Accent Paige A. Smoron Barbara Bryn Allison Cocks  Viewpoint Kim Skiles Colleen Stepan Systems Tim Quinn  Ad Deslan Shannon Hoach Mindy Breen Jeanne Naylor Quinn Statepanhoodle  
Tim Kiefer  Sports  
Greg GuHey  

Sports Wednesday Theresa E. KellyMolly Mahoney 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) IS published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacat10n penods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
-

---------------------------------------------------------.­
The Observer Wednesday, December 13, 1989 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Wednesday, December 13. 
Lines show high temperatures.
50 40 

Yesterday's high: 19 Yesterday's low: 8 
Nation's high: 82 
(Miami, Fla.) 
Nation's low: -28 
(International Falls, 
Mont.) 
Forecast: 
Cloudy and very cold to­
day with a 50 percent 
chance of light snow, 
high in the middle teens. 
Cloudy and very cold 
tonight with a 40 percent 
chance of light snow,
FRONTS: 
lows zero to 5 above.
• • Cloudy and very cold Thursday with a 30 per­
STATIONARY

COLD WARM ©1989 Accu-Weather. Inc. 
cent chance of snow 
Pressure 


showers, highs1 0 to 15.
®© ~~§ ~ tz3 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V1a Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
Laundry Claims for lost clothing must be made An Tostallogo contest deadline is today. All entries by Dec. 22 in the Laundry Office on the first floor of must be turnnd into the SUB offiee in LaFortunn. LaFortune. 
Channel 34 needs volunteers to eall arna busi­AFROTC will hold its fall semester awards cere­ness for donations to the Channnl :H Auetion. Thnse ses­mony today in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium at 4:30 sions will be from Jan. 30 to Mar. 16 and will run in 2 
p.m. shifts, 8:30-noon, and 1 to 4:30 p.m. Contaet Kathleen Colberg at 277-6154 or Debra Wray at 6 7 4-5961 for morn information. 
WORLD 
Mikhail Gorbachev and the Soviet Parliament on Personal computer users in London wern warned Tuesday rejected reformers' efforts to revoke the Tuesday night to steer clear of a mailed disk purporting Communist Party's monopoly on power and push the to give information on AIDS because it could be part of a nation along the road to multiparty democracy taken by sabotage plot. Dr. Alan Solomon, who also heads a Bri­Moscow's allies. But as the Congress of People's Deputies tish company called S and S specializing in the examina­began its winter session in the Kremlin, hundreds of tion of computer viruses, said sev1~ral thousand of the parliamentarians supported debate on altering the disks had been mailed to legitimate computer users. 
party's legal status. 
NATIONAL 
Two senators made last-minute appeals to A judge in Anchorage, Alaska Tu1~sday rejected top banking regulators urging a sale -rather than arguments that Joseph Ilaznlwood is immune from prose­government seizure -of Lincoln Savings and Loan last cution because he reported a huge oil spill, and refused to spring after being lobbied on behalf of the owner and a drop the charges against the former skipper of the Exxon potential buyer, according to interviews and documents. Valdez. Superior Court Judge Karl Johnstone ruled that Both Sens. Dennis DeConcini, D-Ariz., and Alan Cranston, all evidence gathered in the invnstigation except for D-Calif., asked the nation's chief thrift regulatl'r to Hazelwood's report will be admissibln at his trial for thn approve any legal and proper sale of Lincoln-owned by a grounding of the tanker March 24 and the spill of nearly major campaign contributor, Charles H. Keating Jr. 11 million gallons of crude. 
Numerous violations of environmental laws The National Commission on AIDS urged the by oil and gas developers go undetected under a federal Bush administration Tuesday to stop asking visitors to leasing program, and even when found rarely result in the United States if they are infectnd with the virus and to penalties, according to an internal Interior Department quit marking the passports of those who are. Current investigation. The report by the department's Inspector policies infringe on human rights and dignity "and they General's Office said that the federal Bureau of Land reinforce a false impression that AIDS and IIIV infection Management's scrutiny of oil and gas leases is inadequate are a general threat," said Dr. June E. Osborn, the to force lease operators to comply with environmental commission chairman. "In fact they are sharply restricted requirements or assure proper royalty payments to the in their mode of transmission." government. 
ALMANAC

INDIANA MARKET UPDATE 
Police in DeKalb County arrested 51 
On December 13:
people Tuesday morning in a drug bust that e In 1577: Five ships eom­stretched to four cities. Police were searching for 62 manded by Sir Francis Drake
suspected drug dealers and users in Auburn, 
Volume in shares 
embarked on Drake's famousGarrett, Butler and Waterloo on charges ranging 176.82 Million circumnavigation of the globe,from the sale of small amounts of marijuana to a journey that took almostfelony sales of crack and LSD. 
three years. NYSE Index 
e In 1964: In a ceremony in ElA former scholar who stole historical 194.44 {f 1.61 
Paso, Texas, President Johnson put them on the market apologized at his sen-S&P Composite 
documents worth $275,000 from state agencies and and Mexican president Gustavo 351.73 {f-3.17 
Diaz Ordaz set off an explosiontencing. John Matthew Ferguson, 36, of Indi-Dow Jones Industrials anapolis, who was was charged in September with A that diverted the Hio Grande,
2752· 

reshaping the U.S.-Mexican peared Monday in federal court for sentencing after Precious Metals border and ending a century­
interstate transportation of stolen property, ap-13 v23.89 
old dispute. 
pleading guilty. Ferguson, a college student re-Gold {f $1.10 to $417_901 oz. 
searcher when he conceived the plot, said he would e In 1981: Authorities in "accept fully" the three-year prison sentence Silver{!r 2.2¢ to $5.6721 oz. Poland imposed martial law in ordered by U.S. District Judge John D. Tinder L_ a crackdown on the Solidarity
____________________J 
Monday. Source: AP labor movement. 
Wednesday, December 13, 1989 The Observer page 3 
S. Bend Police offer watch seiVice for OC students' homes over Christmas break 
By KELLEY TUTHILL when requesting the home Assistant News Editor watch. . The South Bend Police De­
The South Bend Police De­partment offers a Home Watch partment is implementing a service to all residents of the Student Break Home Watch city of South Bend 365 days a program for Notre Dame/Saint year. Under the Home Watch Mary's off-campus students Program officers make periodic over Christmas break. checks on homes while the oc­
According to Sgt. Douglas cupants are on vacation. Way of the South Bend Police Phil Johnson, assistant direc­Department. officers will make tor of Security at Notre Dame checks of the students' resi­said that this program is an dence and document the times excellent opportunity for off­and condition in which they find campus students to increase the house. the security of their homes 
"The increased visibility of while they are away. "We ap­uniform patrol units around preciate the willingness of the student residences should act South Bend Police Department as a major deterrent to poten­to check the houses of students tial thieves. If a break-in does while on patrol." occur this service will decrease Student Body President Matt 
the time before police are Breslin said that the program 
aware of the entry," he said. is important in light of in­
The information on the Stu­creased tension and crime off­dent Break Home Watch Pro­campus. He said that last May gram request form will aid po­Student Government made an lice officers in locating a resi­off-campus report to the Board dent should a burglary or of Trustees. 
emergency occur, Way said. The report "brought to light 
In order to receive this ser­such issues as off-campus se­vice students must call the curity," said Breslin. "I think South Bend Police Department that it is a very positive step at 284-9201 and Way said it is towards trying to increase the important to advise police per­safety of off-campus students' sonnel that you are a student homes." 

The Observer/Kyle Sanders 
Winter wonderland 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses appear deceptively tranquil from the 12th floor of the Has­burgh Library. However, once outside, the memory of the beautiful view is erased by the cold air. 


Center for the Homeless to fall under leadership of exec. board 
By PETER LOFTUS shelter off of the URC, which so he was assigned to look for News Writer had previously been managing another site for the shelter that 
The seven-member executive the shelter alone. would allow for the establish­board of the Center for the The 24-hour Center is located ment of additional services for Homeless will assume respon­in ·a renovated building which the homeless. sibility for the administration formerly housed Gilbert's Men's The University then con­of the Center, according to Fa­Store on South Michigan Street tributed $400,000 to help buy ther Richard Warner, board in South Bend. The Center be­the building in which the pre­chairman and counselor to the gan operations on December sent Center is now located. president at Notre Dame. 18, 1988, occurring the same Presently, only part of the old 
"This administrative ar­night as a hotel fire downtown, clothing store is being used, but rangement seemed both appro­·which put dozens of homeless plans are being made to get full priate and advantageous for people into the street, accord­use out of the building. the Michiana community's un­ing to Warner. With the new building, the· precedented approach to the The December opening was idea was not to provide "just a urgent social issue of home­initiated two months ahead of shelter, but a full service center lessness," Warner said. schedule, due to the emergency. for the homeless," according to 
The executive board, estab­David Link, dean of the Notre Link. "We're trying to help lished in June of this year, con­Dame Law School and member them (the homeless) resurface." sists of representatives from of the executive board, helped A "holistic approach" to the four institutions in the Michi­to establish a homeless shelter problem of homelessness was ana region-The University of in 1982. According to Link, the envisioned by the founders of Notre Dame, the city of South shelter was located in the the new Center, said Link. Bend, the United Religious basement of the Maranatha According to Warner, the Community (URC), and the Temple, one block from the site problem of homelessness in the Council of Providers of Services of the present Center. area is serious. There are an to the Homeless (COPOSH). In­Link said that in 198 7, it was estimated 500 homeless people corporated as a non-profit realized that a simple shelter in St. Joseph's County, and at corporation, the board will was not enough to help tackle 
see CENTER I page 4 
take the burden of running the the problem of homelessness, 

U.N. debates action on S. Africa 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -ment to abolish apartheid. If he tions harm the black majority
President Kenneth Kaunda of does not, then the Security there more than the white mi­Zambia said Tuesday that the Council should invoke manda­
nority, and that the interna­international community should tory sanctions." tional community can better give South Africa six months to Kaunda and Zimbabwe's influence Pretoria if it does not abolish apartheid before President Robert Mugabe gave isolate the country. 
clamping total economic sanc­keynote addresses at Tuesday's Black African nations and the tions on the Pretoria govern­opening of the General Assem­African National Congress, the ment. bly's first Special Session on main guerrilla group fighting
Kaunda told reporters that Apartheid. to end white domination in when he met recently with The United States or Britain South Africa, demand compre­President F.W. de Klerk of has always used its veto power hensive sanctions. South Africa, "He said he was to prevent the Security Council A General Assembly call for against apartheid, he said he from imposing mandatory all nations to sever economic, was going to work to remove it. sanctions on South Africa, ex­military, sports and cultural 
"Whether he will succeed, I cept for a 1977 ban on arms links with South Africa has met do not know. We want to see if trade with that country. with partial success. he is going to push his parlia-They contend economic sane-South Africa usually seems to 

find ways to obtain petroleum and other vital resources, though at higher than market cost. 
Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar told the open­ing session the assembly's longstanding opposition to apartheid "is squarely based on the universally shared percep­tion that the institution of apartheid constitutes a threat to international peace and se­curity." 
Ski the Mississippi Tour #1 -Jan. 3-5 Tour #2-Feb. 9-11 Call today! 1-264-3984 Deadline: Dec. 14 


Wednesday, December 13, 1989
page 4 The Observer 
Mass transit in '90's doomed to increased congestion 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -The 1990s will bring new trolleys and high-speed trains, and ef­forts to develop hypersonic planes. But the decade will re­semble the '80s for people stuek in dogged airports and bumper-o-bumper traffic. 
"If you're looking at the '90s, the automobile will remain the dominant mode of travel," said researeher Lyn Long. of the In­stitute of Transportation Stud­ies at the University of Califor­nia, Irvine. 
"Because of increasing auto ownership and two-worker households. there will be more cars on the road and the sys-tern will never keep pace," she said. Urban traffic congestion will be "status quo or worse." 
The Federal Highway Admin­istration says 110 million U.S. commuters now spend 2 billion hours a year in traffic jams. That will increase to 10 billion hours by 2005. 
As usual. Southern California will be in the forefront of the traffic troubles. One study pre­dicts average speed on freeways and highways in this region will drop from 35 mph to 19 mph by 2010. 
Experts say air pollution and possible oil shortages in the 1990s will spur production of cleaner. higher-mileage cars; increased use of vehicles that run on methanol. natural gas. electricity or solar power; con­struction of more trolleys and other "light rail" systems; and more vacation travel by trains, planes and cruise ships. 
With the nation's expressway system almost complete, in­creased attention will be paid to "traffic management" mea­sures, like those credited with keeping Los Angeles freeways free-flowing during the 1984 Olympics, said Peter Gordon, director of the University of Southern California's Planning Institute. 
Traffic management includes synchronized traf!ic lights. me­tered on-ramps, carpool and bus lanes, quicker towing at accident sites, adding narrower lanes without widening free­ways, more one-way streets. re­versible traffic lanes, staggered work hours, and limits on times trucks can move goods. 
But these strategies haven't helped much in the past, and seemed to work during the Olympics because many people "were so scared (by gridlock predictions) that they stopped driving," said Langhorne Bond, ex-president of the American Association of State Jlighway and Transportation Officials. 
Dashboard navigation sys­tems that give drivers traffic information to avoid congestion "will gradually come into widespread use between now and the year 2000," consultant Robert L. French wrote reeently in The Futurist magazine. 
Twenty-live cars are involved in testing such a system on Los Angeles' Santa Monica Free­way. 
Beyond 2000, radar cruise controls might allow auto con­voys to speed down freeways at 70 mph, spaeed only feet apart. A prototype will be tested soon near San Diego. 

Baker 
continued from page 1 
World War II division of de­feated Germany, was added suddenly to his schedule late Monday night. 
In the morning, Baker sent a telegram to Moscow to advise the Soviet Union of his plan. There was no immediate reply. But a senior U.S. official told reporters on Baker's flight to Brussels on Tuesday night for meetings later in the week with NATO and European Commu­nity leaders that "the Soviets will be very pleased with the faet that we had this meeting." 
The official. who spoke on condition of anonymity, said both the Soviets and the East Germans had advised the United States that they wanted the reform to proeeed. "I don't anticipate any problem at all from that standpoint," he said. 
Baker is the first secretary of state to hold talks with East German officials. Two of his predecessors. John Foster Dulles in the 1950s and William Hogers in 1971. visited East Berlin. but they did not go be­yond the Soviet-controlled sec­tor of the former capital. 
Former President Harry Truman's participation in the Potsdam conference in 1945 earried him beyond Berlin. But Truman met with Soviet leader Josef Stalin and British Prime Ministers Winston Churchill and Clmlllmt Attlee. 
"I felt it was important that we have an opportunity to let the premier and the people of the (;erman Democratic Hepub­lie know of our support for the reforms that are taking place 
in this country," Baker said 
when asked to explain the deci­
sion to go to Potsdam. 
"We wanted to make sure 
they are aware of the support 
that exists in the United States 
for the democratic process. We 
also wanted to make it very 
clear that we support the pro­
cess of reform in a peaceful 
way," he said. 
The Lutheran ministers, some of whom were opponents of the Communist government, as­sured Baker they would con­tinue to advance reforms while also doing what they could to keep the political upheaval on a peaceful plane, the U.S. officials said. 
While Baker made no explicit promises to Modrow, they said, he held out the prospect of lower tariffs provided the East German government took legal steps to ensure the right to em­igrate to the West. 
lie also told Modrow that East Germany could expect the same kind of aid from the West that is being extended to Hun­gary and Poland "if you carry forward with your reforms as you have promised the people you are going to do, and you have a government that can speak for the people and that represents the people," a senior 
U.S official said. 
Before Baker crossed into East Germany he celebrated the opening of the opening of the Bnrlin Wall and made a speech outlining the Bush administra­tion's proposed "new architec­ture" for a changing Europe, with a larger role for the North Atlantie Treaty Organization and closer U.S. ties to the 12­nation European Community. 
RUSSIA 
Intercollegiate Tour , July 1990 
Led by Prof. James Butterfield (PHd, Notre Dame) For information contact: Western Michigan U. Office of International Affairs Kalamazoo, Ml 49008 Tel. toll free 1-800-876-3951 




Center 
continued from page 3 
least 125 in the Michiana re­gion. The Center holds 125 homeless people. 
The paid staff of the center consists of an acting director. a volunteer coordinator, a shelter coordinator, a kitchen coordi­nator, and a security guard. In addition to the paid staff are over 200 volunteers. many of whom are students, faculty and staff members at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Coinciding with the executive board's assuming management of the Center is the establish­ment of the position of execu­tive director of the Center, who will be responsible for imple­menting policy. coordinating staff and volunteers. and rep­resentation of the Center to the local community. 
The executive board will soon begin searching for someone to fill the position, and should hire a person by the end of January of next year, according to Warner. 
With the executive board as­suming leadership, the Center "could be a real significant model of how a community can face the problem of homeless­ness," Warner said. 
The board, with representa­tives from some key parts of the Michiana community, should be effective in getting fi­nancial support and getting more services for the Center. said Warner. 
"The plan now is to use this new organization (the executive board) to accelerate plans which existed from the onset," said Link. Although the Center has been running smoothly for the past year, the early opening of the Center "under critical conditions" made it hard to ef­fectively move ahead with initial plans. he said. 
Plans are in the making for providing such services as legal 
show circuit, the "gee-whiz" stuff was there.
Autos 
continued from page 1 
The Chrysler Millennium, out said. "I don't think all the elec­of Gale's own design studios, tronic stuff is going to follow offers an array of electronic 
along because people aren't wizardry, including forward­going to pay for it." looking infrared cameras. rain­sensitive wipers, a navigation Still. on concept cars dis­system and collision-warning on the auto-radar. 




We're Santa's Mailbox! 
Let us take the hassle and guess...work out of mailing Holiday packages. We'll ship your gifts the quickest and most economical way! 

On State Route 23 Next to the Subway 
TEL (219) 271-MAIL
ups 

FAX (219) 271-7679 
assistance to the homeless, job 
search, alcohol counseling, 
mental health intervention. and 
housing. According to Warner, 
there is a shortage of 700 
housing units in the Michiana 
region. 

Also essential to the Center is 
financial support. The executive 
board will look for support 
from local businesses and indi­
viduals, according to Warner. 
The executive board will also look for national support, ac­cording to Link. The board will apply for governmental and foundational grants to help support the Center. 
Both Link and Warner are confident that the executive board will be effective in run­ning the Center. 
"We have two unique faetors in our favor," Warner said. "One is our four-way partner­ship in the endeavor to meet the homeless problem. and the other is the full-service ap­proach we are committed to developing." 
Safety is high in the minds of 
today's engineers  for  tomor­ 
row's cars.  
Problems  that  must  be  re­ 

solved include: how to get the same power out of a gallon of an alternative fuel as out of a gallon of gasoline; how to store the fuel in the vehicle; what ef­fects the new fuels will have on engine and body design. 
----------~---------------~-­
Wednesday, December 13, 1989 The Observer page 5 

Two Mexican drug lords get 40 years for murder of U.S. agent 
MEXICO CITY (AP) -Two Mexican drug lords were sen­tenced Tuesday to 40 years in prison each for the murder of 
U.S. narcotics agent Enrique Camarena, ending a case that had dampened relations be­tween the countries since 1985. 
"There is no chance of these sentences being reduced," At­torney General Enrique Alvarez del Castillo said. 
Rafael Caro Quintero, 37, and Ernesto Rafael Fonesca Car­rillo, 56, were found guilty of masterminding the killings of Camarena, an agent of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administra­tion, and his Mc";._,dn pilot, Al­varez said. 
They were tried earlier this year, but convictions and sen­tences are announced simulta­neously in Mexico. 
Time for related convictions of kidnapping, drug trafficking and weapons smuggling ·brought Caro Quintero's total sentence to 116 years and Fon­seca's to 144. The sentences are to be served concurrently. 
Fernando Arias, a spokesman for Alvarez, said Caro Quintero and Fonseca would have to serve 74 and 53 years respec­tively because of non-concur­rent time remaining from pre­vious sentences. 
He said there is no parole in drug-related cases, "not even by a single day." 
Don Hamilton, spokesman for U.S. drug control policy di­rector William Bennett, said in Washington: "It's certainly nice to see people like Caro Quintero off the streets. I think the United States and Mexico will both be the better for it." 
Ten other men were sentenced to the maximum term of 40 years for taking part in the killings, and 13 other men re­c.eived lesser sentences for their involvement in drug operations run by Caro Quintero and Fon­seca. 
All property and possessions of the two arc being confiscated as part of the penalty, Alvarez said. He had no figures for their holdings, but said the "list is very long." 
Both are known to have mil­lions of dollars in assets, in­cluding ranches, aircraft, lux­ury cars, houses, apartments, hotels and businesses. 
Tuesday's sentences were handed down by Judge Tomas Hernandez Franco of the 4th Criminal Court in Guadalajara, where Camarena was based. It is the capital of Jalisco state, 350 miles west of Mexico City, and a major center for the drug traffickers. 
E. Germany Communist Party admits to 'flawed socialism' 
EAST BERLIN (AP) -Pres­sun~d by a steady drain of disil­lusioned workers and increas­ing calls for reunification, East Germany's Communist Party conceded Tuesday that a flawed brand of socialism had hurt living standards. 
In the past month. the Com­munists have given up their le­gal monopoly on power and that has raised questions about their mandate to govern until national parliamentary elec­tions are held May 6. 
Secretary of State James Baker met in Potsdam -with Communist Premier Hans Mod-row in a show of support for the nation's reforms. 
One pro-reform group, Demokratischer Aufbruch, said Modrow and his Cabinet should step down. It does not appear that position enjoys broad sup­port, however, since Modrow retains a fairly high standing among East Germans. 
Communist Party leader Gre~ gor Gysi said his party would not allow a "foreign policy vac­uum" to develop despite the upheavals of the past two months. 
"What we need in this country through May 6 is stability," Gysi said when informed of the reform group's demand. 
West German Foreign Minis­ter Hans-Dietrich Genscher traveled to East Berlin to meet with the group's leader Rainer Eppelmann. No details of the talks were disclosed. 
The party's official daily, Neues Deutschland, blamed so­cialism for poor living condi­tions in the most blunt admis­sion yet of the party's culpabil­ity in the nation's political and economic crisis. 
"The governmental and ad­ministrative socialism has def­initely failed as a social system 
in our country," the newspaper said. 
But, it added, a new "democratic socialism" was in the making. 
The party appeared torn over the question of closer ties with West Germany, and the news­paper called for "a qualified partnership" acceptable to Eu­ropean neighbors. 
Allies of East Germany and West Germany have expressed reservations about a confeder­ation between the nations or eventual reunification, as pro­posed by West German Chancel­lor Helmut Kohl. 
But the economic crisis that has burdened East Germany's more than 16 million citizens with problems from pollution to scarce consumer goods con­tinues to drive away the na­tion's best hope for an im­proved future -its young workers. 
Baker visited the wall Tues­day and then traveled from West Berlin to Potsdam to meet with Modrow. It was the first time a U.S. secretary of state visited East Germany since diplomatic relations were established in 1974. 



With Macintosh 
you can even do this: 

Quit 8€0 
Madntosh®computers have always been easy to use. But they've never been this easy to own. 
•' Presenting The Macintosh Sale. 
ThroughJanuary31, you can save hundreds ofdollars on avariety ofApple® Madntosh computers and peripherals. 
So now there's no reason to settle for an ordinary PC. With The 
Notre Dame Computer Store Office of University Computing Math/Computing Center 239-7477 
Macintosh Sale, you can wind up with much more ofacomputer. 
Without spending alot more money. 

The Macintosh Sale. 
Now through January 26 
© 1989 Apple Computer; Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks ofApple Computer; Inc. 
------------------~~----------------------~~,. 


Viewpoint
page 6 Wednesday, December13, 1989 
Ihe -Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor Regts Coccta 

Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Sports Ed itor Theresa Kelly Accent Editor John Bias• Photo Editor ... Enc Batley Saint Mary's Editor ....Christme Gill 
Business Manager Rtch Iannelli 

Advertising Manager Molly K•llen Ad Design Manager .Shannon Roach Production Manager .. AI1son Cocks Systems Mgr Bernard Brenntnkmeyer OTS Director Angela Bellanca Controller Anne Lindner 
The Observer IS the tndependent newspaper publtshed by the students of the Universt­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College It does not necessanly reflect the poi­ICtes of the admlntstrat•on of e1ther tnstltutton The news IS reported as accurately and ob­JeCtively as poss1ble. Unstgned edttonals represent the opmton of the ma1onty of the tollow1ng. Edttor-tn-Chlef, Manag1ng Editor. Executtve News Ed1tor. Viewpotnt Editor. Sports Edttor. Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Sa1nt Mary's Ed1tor Commentanes, letters, and the lnstde Column present the v1ews of thetr authors Column space is avatlable to all members of the commumty and the free expresston of varymg opm1ons on campus, through letters, ts encouraged 
West overlooks rights violations 
Surprising as it may seem to most of us, the Chinese, the Eastern Bloc and Vietnam do not have a monopoly on human rights violations. Great Britain. the United States' dosest ally, seems not-so-very concerned about human rights these days as well. On Tuesday morning, December 12, the government of the British colony of Hong Kong began a forced deporta­tion of Vietnamese refugees to II anoi. The colonial govern­ment. with full approval from the British government, plans on dnporting 44,000 Viet­nanwse rnfugees over the eoursn of the nnxt few months, simply because thn government donsn't want to deal with them. Tlw defense of the Hong Kong government: the fleeing Viet­namese are boat people and therefore not "true" refugees. If that confuses you, you're not alone. 
'It never ceases to amaze me how governments can write off the persecution and murder of thousands of people without any real concern. Maybe Stalin was right; maybe the death of a million men is just a statistic.' 
Starting in June of 1988, 57,000 Vietnamese citizens fled their oppressed homeland in search of life elsewhere; these refugees initially sought shelter in !long Kong, the closest safe refuge (or so they thought). In response, the colonial govern­ment has decided that refuge is to be sought elsewhere; to that end, the government screens all the refugees, classifying 13,000 as "true" refugees and the rest as illegal aliens and migrant workers. The screening proce­dures used were so flawed that Amnesty International called on 
DOONESBURY 
Jim DeMarco 
On Human Rights 
the government of Great Bri­tain to stop thinking about de­portation of the refugees until a non-biased proeess could be applied. 
The refugees do not want to return. Two questions are raised by this action of the colonial government: Do we have any assurance that the llanoi government will not per­secute the refugees upon their return (assuming their forcible return is justified)? And how can the I long Kong government justify forcible deportation of people fleeing such a repressive regime, people who do not want to go back? 
To answer the first question, one need only to read Tuesday's New York Times. We know al­ready that the Vietnamese gov­ernment is not exactly known for the humane treatment of its citizens, especially those who find it necessary to flee to an­other country to escape op­pression. In the Times article, Barbara Basler quotes Christo­pher Bale, Hong Kong director of OXFAM, concerning assur­ances of safety for the deported refugees: '"At the moment,' Mr. Bale said, 'the bottom line with the Government appears to be to get an agreement where boat people can get out of the plane (in Hanoi) without being shot."' 
One wonders if the Hong Kong government even cares what happens to the 44,000 it plans to return to Hanoi. It never ceases to amaze me how governments can write off the persecution and murder of thousands of people without any real concern. Maybe Stalin was right; maybe the death of a million men is just a statistic. 
But why send people to cer­tain repression if you can af­ford not to? Well, says the colonial government of Hong Kong and the British govern­ment, they're migrant farm­workers and fishermen. What those who defend the deporta­tions seem to overlook is that the ranks of the refugees are also heavily made up of chil­dren. In fact, of the 51 refugees forcibly deported Tuesday, 26 were children. Those who de­fend the deportation also seem to think that oppression only works against those who are rich. "The rich are truly op­pressed in Vietnam, so we'll al­low them to stay in Hong Kong. But the poor aren't really op­pressed, especially farmers and 
fishermen, so we'll send them back to the worker's paradise." 
As a note of the brashness of the Hong Kong government's act, the soldiers who carried the 51 refugees away on Tues­day attempted to do so in se­cret. Reporters found them anyway, and when the refugees saw the reporters following their bus, they shouted and held up cardboard signs saying that they didn't want to go back, that they would rather die than return to Vietnam. But all this is justifiable to the Hong Kong government because these refugees are poor migrant workers (and children). 
But you need only to trans­pose the names of the Hong Kong and British governments with that of the United States and that of the Vietnamese regime with your choice of Latin American governments to see that it is not just the British who don't know how to deal humanely with refugees. 
Jim DeMarco is a junior math and theology major and is the chairperson of the Coalition for Human Rights, sponsors of the On Human Rights column. 
lETTERS 



Room assignments not random 
Dear Editor: 
As students who, upon arrival at Notre Dame in 1986, discov­ered that the members of our residence hall were to be roomed together according to their racial background, we have to laugh at the defensive efforts put forth by Evelyn Heinebold of the Office of Stu­dent Housing in the latest issue of Scholastic. To read that, "We do the freshman room as­signments by random computer selection ... all we have is the student's name and social secu­rity number,'' one would believe that the administration on this campus is not aware of the segregationist tactics that are not commonplace in at least one of our "family's" residence halls. 
We refuse to believe that the housing assignments that were issued for Dillon Hall in 1986 (and the three subsequent years) can be attributed to a system guided by "chance". We would have to be more than naive to believe that any ho6s­ing assignment which placed all the black freshman in our dorm together would be a system based on random computer se­lection. Dillon Hall's current freshman class consists of six black students. Two of these students live together in a dou­ble; three live in a triple on the same floor, while only one is assigned to live with a non-mi­nority student. The situation in Dillon Hall has bnen similar during our four years at Notre Dame. In light of these facts, Ms. Heinebold's statements on this issue snem to be a misrep­resentation of what occurs in our dorms. 
Our criticism. however, is not directed solely toward Dillon's system. We have been made aware of other situations in our University's residenee halls in which members of minority groups have been placed to­gether in rooms or even in snp­arate sections. 
We do not believe that per­sons who see fit to place blacks and other minority students in special rooming situations are racist. Bather, we choose to believe that they are unin­formed and ignorant in their assessment of how these segre­gationist tactics will affect race 
relations at Notre Dame. 
We believe this to be true, and, accordingly, we would ask that those in the administration in charge of student housing look into this situation immediately and make the changes that are obviously necessary. If the University is truly concerned with race rela­tions at Notre Dame, it will provide the efforts necessary in making sure that segregation is not practiced here. 
Christopher Morphew Off-Campus Larry Playford Dillon Hall Dec. 11. 1989 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

'Home is where the heart can laugh without shyness. Home is where the heart's tears can dry at their own pace.' 
______.._________
~----------------·--~--­
Viewpoint Disgruntled elves vent frustrations with Claus 
Wednesday, December 13, 1989 page 7 
proves that your whole stinking real good, so get a VCR, okay?" bourgeois capitalist system is a Claus doesn't own a VCR cartel,Glenn G. Fogarty 
failure! Revolution now! Crush does he? the Claus! All: Let's make a VCR! 
With No Apologies Slogo: Let's use our heads. Slogo: Okay, where do we Consider that Claus is the head start? of a secret international toy Pogo: I'll get the wood and 
I'm a steadfast believer in cartel which owns every toy the saw and the nails and the Santa Claus. Now, there are company and store everywhere. lacquer! I think we'll be all set, some people who say that there If the S.E.C or the Justice De­then! We'll run that slave driver is no such thing as Santa Claus. tions, like any good investiga­many other employers around partment ever found out, we right into the ground!! If so, they have yet to explain to tive journalist, I visited the here. could nail him with an antitrust Loompa: Uh, guys, there's me who has been dumping scene of the crime, looking Loompa: I know! Let's go suit! Right? Now, to throw off one thing?large quantities of anthracite, through the factory window. south for the winter. We'll get the investigators, he keeps us Pogo: What's that? commonly known as coal, under Here is what I saw: jobs and meet all sorts of nice here as a decoy, making these Loompa: What does a VCR my Christmas tree every bloody (Scene: Pogo, Slogo, Oompa, girls like that Donna, and ... wooden toys. Who buys wooden do? year. I've been stockpiling coal and Loompa: elf workers dis­Slogo: You idiot! Last time we toys anymore? To preserve his Pogo: Come to think of it, I for some time now since I cussing the conditions at the tried that stunt we got stuck spotless image, he drags out have no idea. Does anybodyhaven't found a profitable way Claus Conglomerate) working as extras on "The the sled and that ridiculous know? to get rid of the stuff. (It's not Loompa: I just got my pay­Wizard of Oz." No sooner did I reindeer with a light-bulb for a Oompa: Nope. Sure don't. like there's a huge retail check-50 cents a month! Santa suggest to the director that we nose on Christmas Eve now and Slogo: Me neither. market for loose coal these is so generous! do "Ding, Dong, The Witch Is then, making one or two trips (Enter Santa center, with days). Pogo (making a wooden air­Dead" as an opera piece than down a chimney and calling it a Donna Rice)
Anyway, since this Claus plane): Are you kidding? That he sicks that rotten little mutt night. Since he gets all the prof­Claus: Ho, Ho, Hal I see youcharacter seemingly gets his leech? A blood-sucking tyrant, Toto on me. (Sarcastically) its from the toys anyway, he little obsolete rodents have jollies from revealing his low that's what he is! We're stuck "Toto, I don't think we're in doesn't have to work too hard been complaining again. Do youopinion of me, I've been quietly here eating stir-fry penguin and Kansas anymore... " Phooey! to keep up the old rep. If we know what day tomorrow is? biding my time until I've gath­Eskimo Pies, and he's off racing None of that for me! just got one of those SEC guys All: Christmas! ered enough information to around in a Lear jet with the Oompa: Why don't we start up here, it would solve every­Claus: That's right boys.cast some honest doubt upon umpteenth Mrs. Claus, Donna our own business? thing. When you look in your mail­his lofty reputation. Think, if Rice! Elves of the world unite, Pogo: You tried that last Oompa: Okay, Sherlock. No boxes, you'll find a nice present 
you will, for a moment about you have nothing to lose but year, you greedy capitalist pig! one would believe it, coming from Santy: a letter announcing the North Pole, one of the few your chains! (Clenches his fist "Reindeer Steaks, Inc" Hal I've from us! All Claus has to do is a 50 percent pay cut! Ho, Ho,places on earth with weather in the air.) never heard of a stupider idea! dress up in that stupid techni­Ho. It's the least I could do for 
worse than South Bend. What Slogo: Will you shut up for No sooner do I get to Finland color suit, say a few "Ho, ho, you guys ... ever would possess a colony of once, Karl Marx! You're just with the first shipment, and the ho's," and he's off the hook. 
That's about alii saw. Maybe
elves to work in such a place? miffed because that bimbo customs guy says to me "We al­The investigator goes home and I can blackmail this Claus(Granted, I doubt that elves didn't believe it when you said ready have reindeer in Finland. tells everyone we're a bunch of character with this into buyingwould fit comfortably into you were one of the Kennedy's. Get lost, twerp!" The French malcontents. 
back all the coal he's dumped
mainstream American society.) Oompa: I can't stand that tried the things for about a Loompa: I know! Have you on me. What would conditions be like Claus clod, but where would we week, decided they didn't like seen the letters coming in from Glenn G. Fogarty is a juniorin this famed "Elf Factory?" To go if we got rid of him? Last 'em, and went back to eating the kids these days? Look at history/ALPA major and is afind the answers to these ques-time I looked, there weren't too frog legs and horses! That this one: "Dear Santa, I've been 
regular Viewpoint columnist. 
LETTERS 

University ROTC members enforce proper values in the armed forces 
Dear Editor: dear friends in war. If there is of military capability in the U.S. have a moral code upon which some of those future leaders. 
My daughter is a student at another war, however, and I is dictated by the threat. That they make life and death deci­Mr. Welle might find it interest­Notre Dame and has, for the am called on, I will go again. we have a large military indi­sions, who understand that ing that there is another Notre past month, been sending me But make no mistake, I do not cates perhaps that there is a there is evil in the world and Dame alumnus whose decisions excerpts from "Viewpoint" on like war. large threat. As the threat that sometimes evil must be will impact the military much the subject of ROTC on the ND John Welle's article (The Ob­abates so does the size of the dealt with using force. more than mine ever will. He is campus. She thought I would be server, Nov. 7), on the other military. Witness history: post I believe that the values that I the current Secretary of the Air interested because, you see, I hand, concerns me. It concerns WWI and WWII, post-Korea, acquired from my Catholic up­Force, Mr. Donald Rice. am both an ND alumnus and a me because Mr. Welle is a pro­post-Vietnam. Witness right bringing and education have As a closing note, I might· colonel who has been on active fessor at ND who has access to now as the military severely aided me immensely in my life mention that my daughter is an duty in the United States Air many students whose stan­constricts to adjust to a per­and my military career. Those Air Force ROTC student. I am Force for the past 22 years. dards, values and ethics he ceived decreasing Soviet threat. values have had an impact on delighted that she and many 
You might think that I would helps to form. To begin with, A nation with a large military the Air Force because they others like her will bring the be writing you to comment on Notre Dame does not need does not necessarily mean a guide my decisions. values that they have learned at Kurt Mills' article (The Ob­ROTC dollars. The University militaristic nation. Those values have influenced Notre Dame with them on ac­server, Oct. 18). Actually I am turns away ten times more stu­Most importantly, Mr. Welle others, as well. I spent four tive duty and continue to have not. Mr. Mills' outlandish, illog­dents than it accepts. If ND misses the whole point of why years as an associate professor those values affect the military. ical claims and his naivete terminated ROTC tomorrow, Notre Dame might keep a large of English at the U.S. Air Force The day that Notre Dame amaze me and lead me to be­the enrollment would not drop ROTC program. I propose that Academy, the institution that closes its doors on ROTC will lieve he could not be convinced by 10 percent. So, let's not talk Notre Dame sees value in mili­educates the Air Force's future indeed be a sad day for me, for to any other perspective. One of Notre Dame's "dependency tary leaders who have been generals. And I know, as does our military, and for our coun­comment, however: I detest war on military dollars." trained in the Judeo-Christian Mr. Welle, that one's interpre­try. more than Mr. Mills might ever I also think it's misleading tradition, who have a well-for­tation of literature certainly Albert Ramroth imagine. You see, I have been in and erroneous to label the U.S. mulated, strong ethic, who have hinges on one's view of the Beavercreek, Ohio a war and have lost some of my a "militaristic" nation. The level weir-balanced perspectives, who world. I trust I've influenced Dec. 1, 1989 
Coach must guard against insensitivity 
Dear Editor: potential of Ellis and not to The death, destruction and 
This is a response to a quote blatantly ignore the impact of moral implications of Nagasaki made by Digger Phelps that ap­the atomic bombings. It is not and Hiroshima will never be peared in the "Irish Items" col­my purpose to chastise Phelps forgotten. Although the bomb­umn in The Observer of Nov. for his remarks but to merely ings are a part of "world his­
29. Within this article, Phelps remind Phelps and others that tory" and are often viewed as reflected on the playing the English language is a pow­an event of the past, the effects potential of LaPhonso Ellis and erful tool and should be used are still felt today by both was quoted as saying: "It will constructively to illustrate our Japanese and Americans alike. Dear Editor: snub nose and especially his be like when we finally got to points. The English language I wish the Fightin' Irish con­Senator Paul Simon recently pugilistic single-mindness-ex­the mainland with the atomic and society are full of so many tinued success with their com­raised some hackles in Illinois emplifies Know-Nothing anti­bomb. That's what it will be words and events that it should petitive schedule. I am confident by denouncing the University of lrishness at its most exagger­like when he gets back. He's not be difficult to pick an anal­that I will see them in Denver! Illinois' mascot as offensive to ated. On thousands of sweat­our Hiroshima, our Nagasaki." ogy or a phrase that avoids un­M. Watson Native Americans. Whether or shirts, on coasters and key 
I am confident that Phelps' dermining the importance and Graduate Student not the Senator is correct in rings, and with every drink sold intention was merely to illus­repercussions of a historical Business this case, there is at least one in the Huddle, Notre Dame per­trate the "explosive" playing event. Nov. 30, 1989 school in America whose sym­petuates and profits from the 
bolism consists of blatant eth-. very worst 19th century stereo­nic stereotyping at a mind-bog­types of that era's largest
Coalition thanks all for Thanksgiving meals 
gling level of insensitivity: the Catholic minority. Dear Editor: with a healthy Thanksgiving cake!" Let us hope that the University of Notre Dame. There can be but one solution 
It is with great excitement meal. These numbers more spirit of giving can remain as The pugnacious, anatomically to this outrage. It's time for that the World Hunger Coali­than double any previous drive personal in each one of us every ridiculous, triangle-headed Notre Dame to renounce its ex­tion would like to extend its we have had, and our efforts day as that family's gift was to "Fighting Irishman," so ubiqui­pression of Irish Catholic self­thanks to all in the Notre Dame were much appreciated in the that little girl on that day. tous on Notre Dame parapher­hatred. The leprechaun must community who so generously South Bend community. Meleah Potter nalia, is a nightmare represen­go, off the sweatshirts and out gave to our annual Thanksgiv­When one little girl saw a Jackie Uhll tation of the Irish that would of the stadium. ing food basket drive. Raising pumpkin pie in the basket being Co-Presidents put Thomas Nast to shame. Ev­Kevin Thornton in excess of $2000, we were delivered to her family she ex­World Hunger Coalition ery aspect of this ugly figure­South Bend able to reach over 250 people claimed, "Look, it's my birthday Nov. 26, 1989 his absurd outfit, his impossibly Dec. 12, 1989 

-----~~~--­
----------~--------~--------~ 




Accent
page 8  
Prof.  Howland:  teacher  
by day,  • •mUSICian  by night  
CINDY PETRITES  he lau·ghs, "teaching ran in the  and at Hose-llulman Institute  
accent writer  blood." When he was in junior  in Terre llaute, he came to  
high school I lowland began  Notre Dame in the fall of 1981.  
In 1983, all freshmen engi­ playing timpani (kettledrums)  "What I'm trying to teach  
neers wen~ required to take  and started studying musie pri­ you is not how to solve prob­ 
"the Waterloo courses."  Me­ vately under the principal per­ lems but how to analyze them,"  
chanics I and II. Professor  cussionist for the Philadelphia  Howland tells his students at  
Hobert I lowland. who taught  Orchestra. "I seriously consid­ the beginning of each section of  
both sections of the eourse. had  ered becoming a professional  Mechanics I. "I teach a small  
a policy of handing baek eaeh  musician," he said. "You know  number of general ideas and  
exam individually.  After one  how full of themselves high  principles for solving problems  
exam, a fn~shman in HOT<: and  school kids are."  so that you will be prepared to  
aerospace engineering picked  Instead of entering music  face any problem."  
up his exam and was dnarly  school or conservatory right  While I lowland fully ac­ 
upset ­not only had he donn  after high school, Howland fol­ knowledges that this makes it  
poorly, but the only n~ason he  lowed the advice of his music  harder on the students, he also  
was taking ttw course was be­ teac:her who eneouraged him to  feels that they learn more. "For  
eausn HOT<: n•quired it.  pursue an academie degree in­ me, says Howland, the perfect  
Professor Howland knew all  stead.  exam is when the student takes  
this. however.  "Look," said  Howland picked Yale  for its  a deep breath, looks at Ques­ 
I lowland. to the student.  "if  well-respected program in ce­ tion #1 and groans. "No way in  
you had your 'd'ruthnrs, what  lestial engineering and because  hell I can do this problem," she  
would you major in?"  of the musical opportunities it  says, going on to Question #2.  
Tlw freshman's eyes lit up.  provided him. While at Yale,  Much later, reluctantly, when  
"History," he said. "I love his­ Howland kept up his musieal  she can no longer put it off, the  
tory."  activity by joining the Nnw  student goes back to Question  
"Wt~ll." said llowland.  llaven Symphony as a freshman  #1. Slowly, doubtfully, she  
"you've got to follow your  (he was principal percussionist  gathers bits and pieces of in­ 
drnams, eh?"  by his senior year) and serving  formation from other problems  
Howland's response is easily  as President of the Yale Band  and tries it again. She gets not  
belilwable bncausn he speaks to  his sophomore year. Howland  the answer, but something.  
a large extent from experience.  graduated from Yale with a BA  "Now wait a minute," she says.  
Howland. who teaches Mechan­ in physics and philosophy, and  "Maybe if I try this .." And she  
ies I and II and "Orbitals," a se­ decided to continue his studies  gets a little more and more and  
nior lnvnl elective in aerospace  there as a graduate student.  finally has put enough steps to­ 
engineering hern at Notre Dame, knows what it means to follow one's dream. Or dreams, as the ease may be. His dreams were to pursue musk and celestial engineering,  While he was in graduate school, the Boston Symphony gave a concert in New Haven. Wh1m Howland learned that the man newly appointed to princi­pal viola had a Phd in chemical  gether to understand the prob­lem. Not surprisingly, Howland is known among his students for his dry sense of humor.  The Observer/Steve Moskop Top: During the day, Professor Howland teaches his engineering students general principles so that they will be prepared to face any problem. Above: At night, Professor Howland satisfies his musical interest by playing in the South Bend Symphony Orchestra.  
the theoretical study of how heavenly bodies move. "You  engineering, Howland was fas­cinated. "The parallels between  "Humor can be a great outlet," he admits. "Face it, the mate­ the engineer must also work within an already established  terial again every time you teach it."  
know. planets, rockets, that sort of thing," he clarifies, smiling. As an associate pro­fessor in the College of Aerospace and Mechanieal Engineering and a percussionist  him and myself were striking," Howland said. llis example and the example set by Howland's adviser in chemical engineering at Yale (who had also played principal oboe for the London  rial we cover is difficult. I'm not trying to sugar-coat the pill, just make it more bear­able." The real challenge for Howland is injecting creativity into the already established  framework. That requires at least as much imagination as creating art or litt:rature." For Howland, who describes himself as "basically shy", there  Howland's objective is not only to teaeh his students basic engineering skills but also to instill in them a personal drive for excellence. According to Howland. "Notre Dame's De­ 
in the South Bend Symphony Orchestra. I lowland seems to havll found a way to balance the two. As a youth, though, How­land felt he had to make a choice. "I always feared that I'd bn dosing off options," he re­members. Howland comes from  Philharmonic Orchestra) in­spired Howland to pursue both dreams. Howland earned an MS in Astronomy from Yale, then moved with his adviser to North Carolina State University where he earned his Phd in Engineering Science and Me­ frameworks of music and engi­neering. To him, creativity is a thing to strive for. "While most other instruments require training," he says, "to play a drum all you have to do it hit it. I strive to get above the 'just hit it."' "Really creative engineering is the same way. Like the musi­ are very strong parallels be­tween teaching and musical performance. "As a musician you might play Beethoven's Fifth Symphony tens of times, but you have to make the sev­enty-eighth time sound like the first or your playing will be dead and dull. When you teach  partment of Aerospace and Me­chanical Engineering is far more interested in philosophy and general principles that in technical training. Its goal is to turn out a product who may hav1~ to catch up with the latest and greatest in technology but who will never be outdated.  
a New England family where,  chanics. After teaching there  cian playing the written notes,  you have to rediscover the ma- That is what I try to do."  


'Prancer' a movie for all ages that depicts true spirit of Christmas 

MELISSA COMER to answer questions that were lief in miracles that Christmas the jeopardy of losing their young children. Cloris Leach­accent writer full of childish wonder. And all is supposedly all about. No farm to bankruptcy, and the man, perhaps best known for the while, the audience was matter how caught up we may degeneration of her relation­her role as Phyllis on "The 
I low long has it been since watching a movie so full of in­become in our own lives, if we ship with her father. Not the Mary Tyler Moore Show", is an you've gone to see a movie that nocence that it seemed impos­allow it to, "Prancer" can in­best portrait of a child's life to eccentric older woman who is was rated G? If you're anything sible to believe that there still spire us to get into the true paint for a children's movie. touched by Jessica's adventure like me, it's been a LONG time. was a real world out there, be­spirit of Christmas. Yet, as the movie continues, in a very special way. And fi­But try to think back and re­yond the depths of the movie "Prancer" centers around a "Prancer" proves itself to be nally, Abe Vigoda, formerly member what they were like: theater. young girl, Jessica Riggs, who truly as wondrously innocent Fish on "Barney Miller". helps kids wandering up and down The recently released Christ­finds and befriends a reindeer as one might expect. The way in Jessica heal Prancer in his role the aisles making innumerable mas movie "Prancer" invites that has been wounded near which Jessica takes on this as the town veterinarian. All trips to the bathrooms and you to do all of these things her house shortly before cause with such conviction and three turn in good perfor­candy counter, little children and more. This movie is about Christmas. Believing it to be giving offers hope for today's mances, but they do not appear crying, and adults attempting the spirit of giving and the be-Prancer, one of Santa Claus's youth who are becoming hope­nearly as much as one would 
team, she embarks upon an ad­lessly materialistic and self­hope. venture to heal the reindeer and centered. In addition, as the en­Producer Haffanlla De Lau­to return him to Santa in time tire community rallies around n~ntiis and Director .John I Ian­for Christmas. However, be­.Jessica and her belief that this cock succeed in conveying that cause her father would never reindeer is truly Prancer, one special feeling and purity that approve, Jessica must keep her senses an unadulterated accep­is truly Christmas. Thn risk project a secret, a task that tance that is so seldom seen. that they have taken in creating proves increasingly difficult as Her genuine belief in Santa such a movie and starring a the entire town eventually be­Claus offers a refreshing child and a reindeer, seems comes involved. But Jessica's change from the pessimistic well-worth it. Greg Taylor's belief in Prancer proves inspi­views of·society that are so script makes "Prancer" a rarity rational to all those touched by often portrayed in movies. in films today as it offers enter­her adventure and the story "Prancer" features two new­tainment for the whole family. ends with a miracle that comers to the screen with He­"Prancer" providns a much teaches the entire community becca Harrell, starring as .Jes­needed and welcomed remindPr the true spirit of Christmas. sica, and Boo, a reindeer hail­of the giving and sp1~eial spirit 
"Prancer" is more than just ing from Alabama playing that is truly Christmas. So, if the average Christmas fantasy. Prancer. The movies also in­you're in the mood for a cute. The characters are very realis­cludes such talents as Sam El­good-hearted tale about the tic, almost to the point where liott, Cloris Leachman, and Abe faith of a young girl, get ready one begins to wonder if it really Vigoda. Elliott plays Jessica's to once again experience a is a child's movie at all. At age widowed father who is strug­movie with all the wonder and nine, Jessica has already dealt gling to keep his farm on its innocence of a child in with the death of her mother, feet while also raising two "Prancer". 
Wednesday. December 13. 'portS Wednesday 
FOOTBALL TOP 25 POLL SPORTS LIST NFL TEAM STATISTICS 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE college football poll: The top 25 teams in the Associated Press 
East w L T Pet PF PA Home Away AFC NFC Div 
Record PtsPvs 


Bowled over 
Buffalo 8 6 0 .571 362 296 6-2-0 2-4-0 7-4-0 1-2-0 5-2-0 
Miami 8 6 0 .571 294 310 4-3-0 4-3-0 6-6-0 2-0-0 4-3-01. Colorado (51 ) 11-0-0 1,392 1 
The most Bowl appearances in the past decade (1979-1988) 
lndnplis 7 7 0 .500 250 247 5-2-0 2-5-0 6-5-0 1-2-0 3-4-0 3. Michigan (1) 10-1-0 1,279 3 2. Miami, Fla. (40 10-1-0 1,314 2 N England 5 9 0 .357 267 339 3-4-0 2-5-0 5-6-0 0-3-0 4-4-0 
4. Notre Dame 11-1-0 1,236 4 NY Jets 4 10 0 .286 239 336 1-6-0 3-4-0 3-8-0 1-2-0 2-5-0
1. Brigham Young 10 games (5-5-0) 
Central 
6. Nebraska 10-1-0 1,112 6 5. Florida State 9-2-0 1,185 5 Houston 9 5 0 .643 338 327 6-1-0 3-4-0 6-4-0 3-1-0 3-1-0 
7. Alabama 10-1-0 1,022 7 
Tie Michigan 10 games (5-5-0) 
Cleveland 7 6 1 .536 287 217 4-2-1 3-4-0 5-5-1 2-1-0 2-3-0
Tie Nebraska 10 games (4-6-0) 
Cincnnati 7 7 0 .500 322 249 4-3-0 3-4-0 5-6-0 2-1-0 4-1-0 9. Auburn 9-2-0 966 9 8. Tennessee 10-1-0 1,001 8 Pittsbrgh 7 7 0 .500 206 294 3-4-0 4-3-0 5-6-0 2-1-0 1-5-0 
10. Arkansas 10-1-0 914 10 
4. Alabama 
West 11.111inois 9-2-0 860 11 
x-Denver 10 4 0 .714 309 207 6-2-0 4-2-0 9-2-0 1-2-0 6-1-0 12. Southern Cal 8-2-1 778 12 
LA Raidrs 8 6 0 .571 281 240 7-1-0 1-5-0 6-5-0 2-1-0 3-4-0 13. Houston 9-2-0 695 13 
Kan. City 7 6 1 .536 278 242 5-2-0 2-4-1 5-6-1 2-0-0 3-4-0 14. Clemson 9-2-0 643 14 
Seattle 6 8 0 .429 218 281 2-4-0 4-4-0 6-5-0 0-3-0 3-4-0 15. Virginia 10-2-0 615 15 
San Diego 4 10 0 .286 227 261 3-4-0 1-6-0 2-8-0 2-2-0 2-4-0 16. Texas A&M 8-3-0 540 16 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE 17. W. Virginia 8-2-1 472 17 East 
18. 
Penn State 7-3-1 429 18 w L T Pet PF PA Home Away AFC NFC Div 

19. 
Brigham Young 10-2-0 356 19 Phila 10 4 0 .714 291 230 5-2-0 5-2-0 3-1-0 7-3-0 6-1-0 

20. 
Duke 8-3-0 303 20 NY Giants 10 4 0 .714 299 235 5-1-0 5-3-0 3-0-0 7-4-0 5-2-0 

21. 
Ohio State 8-3-0 296 21 Washngtn 8 6 0 .571 327 278 4-4-0 4-2-0 1-2-0 7-4-0 4-4-0 

22. 
Mich. State 7-4-0 258 22 Phoenix 5 9 0 .357 244 309 2-5-0 3-4-0 1-3-0 4-6-0 2-5-0 

23. 
Pittsburgh 7-3-1 177 24 Dallas 1 13 0 .071 194 358 0-7-0 1-6-0 0-2-0 1-11-0 1-6-0 24. Texas Tech 8-3-0 153 25 Central 


25. Hawaii 9-2-1 95 23 Minnesota 9 5 0 .643 305 231 7-0-0 2-5-0 1-1-0 8-4-0 6-2-0 Green Bay 8 6 0 .571 302 318 6-2-0 2-4-0 0-2-0 8-4-0 4-3-0 Chicago 6 8 0 .429 330 311 4-3-0 2-5-0 2-2-0 4-6-0 2-5-0 
Others receiving votes: Florida 25, Detroit 5 9 0 .357 248 333 3-4-0 2-5-0 1-3-0 4-6-0 3-4-0 Washington 19, Arizona 17, Fresno State Tampa Bay 5 9 0 .357 291 355 2-5-0 3-4-0 0-3-0 5-6-0 3-4-0 14, Air Force 13, Oregon 8, Oklahoma 5, West Georgia Tech 4, Syracuse 2, North x-San Frn 12 2 0 .857 395 243 4-2-0 8-0-0 3-0-0 9-2-0 5-1-0 Carolina State 1, N. Illinois 1. LA Rams 9 5 0 .643 364 310 5-2-0 4-3-0 1-1-0 8-4-0 4-2-0 
NewOrlns 7 7 0 .500 315 275 3-3-0 4-4-0 3-0-0 4-7-0 3-3-0' Atlanta 3 11 0 .214 225 375 3-3-0 0-8-0 2-2-0 1-9-0 0-6-0
NFL INDIVIDUAL LEADERS 
x-cfinched division title Saturday, Dec. 16 NATIONAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE 
Sunday's Games Dallas at New York Giants, 12:30 p.m. Quarterbacks Quarterbacks Minnesota 43, Atlanta 17 Denver at Phoenix, 4 p.m. All Com Yds TD lnt All Com Yds TD lnt Philadelphia 20, Dallas 10 Sunday,Dec.17 
Montana, S.F. 365 261 3415 25 7 Moon, Hou. 393 239 3121 21 11 Detroit 27, Chicago 17 Green Bay at Chicago, 1 p.m. Everett, Rams 463 275 3856 26 15 Esiason, Cin. 374 207 2832 21 8 Kansas City 21, Green Bay 3 Houston at Cincinnati, 1 p.m. 
Rypien, Wash. 418 241 3194 20 11 Kelly, Buff. 328 189 2657 23 14 New Orleans 22, Buffalo 19 
Miami at Indianapolis, 1 p.m. Hebert, N.O. 353 222 2686 15 15 Kosar, Clev. 439 268 3051 14 14 Pittsburgh 13, New York Jets 0 Minnesota at Cleveland, 1 p.m. Majkowski, G.B. 531 311 3842 24 19 DeBerg, K.C. 265 165 2157 9 13 
Washington 26, San Diego 21 New England at Pittsburgh, 1 p.m. Simms. Giants 361 206 2753 14 14 Marino, Mia. 470 265 3508 21 20 
Seattle 24, Cincinnati 17 San Diego at Kansas City, 1 p.m. Cunningham, Phil. 457 252 2932 18 12 O'Brien, Jets 459 278 3234 11 18 Houston 20, Tampa Bay 17 
Tampa Bay at Detroit, 1 p.m. Miller, At!. 425 226 2815 12 7 McMahon, S.D. 318 176 2132 10 10 Indianapolis 23, Cleveland 17, OT Washington at Atlanta, 4 p.m. Tomczak, Chi. 276 142 1911 16 14 Krieg, Sea. 436 243 2826 19 19 
New York Giants 14, Denver 7 New York Jets at Los Angeles Rams, 4 p.m. 
Rushers Rushers 
Los Angeles Raiders 16, Phoenix 14 Buffalo at San Francisco, 4 p.m. All Yds Avg LG TD All Yds Avg LG TD Miami 31, New England 10 Los Angeles Raiders at Seattle, 8 p.m. 
B.Sanders, Det. 239 1208 5.1 31 10 Okoye, K.C. 326 1322 4.1 59 11 Monday's Game 
Monday, Dec. 18 Hilliard, N.O. 300 1156 3.9 40 12 Thomas, Buff. 275 1164 4.2 38 5 San Francisco 30, Los Angeles Rams 27 Philadelphia at New Orleans, 9 p.m. Anderson, Chi. 249 1115 4.5 59 11 Dickerson, Ind. 277 1150 4.2 21 5 Craig, S.F. 236 918 3.9 27 5 Brooks, Cin. 201 1117 5.6 65 6 
BASKETBALL TOP 25 POLLS
Bell, Rams 231 875 3.8 46 12 Humphrey, Den. 256 972 3.8 40 7 Anderson, Giants 277 858 3.1 36 11 Jackson, Raiders 151 846 5.6 92 4 
The Top 25 ·college basketball teams in The Top Twenty Five women's Walker, DII.-Mnn. 222 815 3.7 47 Stephens, N.E.
6 215 757 3.5 35 6 the Associated Press poll: basketball teams, with first-place votes of 775 38 630 66 women's coaches in parentheses, total 
Fullwood, G.B. 179 4.3 5 Hector, Jets 162 3.9 21 3 Riggs, Wash. 176 728 4.1 58 4 Metcalf, Clev. 181 615 3.4 43 6 Record PtsPvs points based on 25-24-23-22-21-20-19­
Receivers Receivers 1 . Syracuse (34) 6-0 1,548 1 18-17-16-15-14-13-12-11-10-9-8-7-6-5­
NO Yds Avg LG TD NO Yds Avg LG TD 2. Kansas (20) 9-0 1,503 2 4-3-2-1, season records through Dec. 1O, Sharpe, G.B. 78 1257 16.1 79 12 Reed, Buff. 72 1117 15.5 78 9 3. Georgetown (9) 5-0 1,494 3 points and last week's ranking as compiled Carrier, T.B. 76 1190 15.7 78 6 Blades, Sea. 72 1011 14.0 60 5 4. Missouri 7-0 1,385 4 by Mel Greenberg of The Philadelphia Rice, S.F. 75 1336 17.8 68 15 A.Miller, S.D. 65 1106 17.0 69 9 5.111inois 5-0 1,261 7 Inquirer: Monk, Wash. 75 986 13.1 55 6 Johnson, Den. 62 1005 16.2 69 7 6. Michigan 5-1 1,260 8 Record PtsPvs Sanders, Wash. 70 934 13.3 51 4 Slaughter, Clev. 61 1153 18.9 97 5 ?.Arkansas (1) 5-0 1,169 10 1. La. Tech (64) 6-0 1,648 2 
559 8.2 36 1
Rathman, S.F. 68 Williams, Sea. 58 463 8.0 51 5 B. Oklahoma 4-0 1,116 12 2. Tennessee (1) 5-1 1,558 1 Clark, Wash. 66 1021 15.5 80 8 Clayton, Mia. 57 903 15.8 78 8 9. Louisiana State 4-1 1,064 9 3. Stanford (1) 3-0 1,518 3 
Ellard, Rams 63 1214 19.3 49 8 7
McGee, Cin. 55 1008 18.3 55 10. Louisville 6-1 1,008 11 4. Georgia 5-0 1,463 4 J.Smith, Phoe. 62 778 12.5 31 5 Brooks, Ind. 55 818 14.9 55 4 11.1ndiana 6-0 891 14 5.1owa 6-1 1,339 7 R.Johnson, Det. 59 930 15.8 75 6 Thomas, Buff. 52 607 11.7 74 6 12. Duke 3-2 872 6 6.Texas 3-1 1,292 6 
13. UCLA 4-0 838 13 7. Auburn 4-1 1,196 5SPORTS CALENDAR • 14. UNLV 3-2 820 5 8. Long Beach St. 3-1 1,164 8 
15. Georgia Tech 3-0 631 18 9. N. Carolina St. 6-1 1,085 9
Home games in CAPS Dec.30 Women's basketball vs. BUTLER, 
16. N. Carolina St. 6-1 601 19 10. Purdue 3-1 1,061 11
Men's basketball vs. BUTLER, 7:30p.m. 
17. Memphis St. 4-1 397 16 11. Steph. F. Austin 4-0 1,055 10
Wednesday 1:30 p.m. Men's basketball at Boston 18. St. Johns 5-2 376 15 12. Virginia 6-1 930 12 Women's basketball vs. Dec.31 College, 8 p.m. 19. Alabama 5-1 309 21 13. UNLV 5-1 863 13 
20. Arizona 2-2 304 20 14. Maryland 5-2 756 14
MICHIGAN STATE, 7:30p.m. Wrestling at Southern California Jan.12 
21.1owa 6-0 291 15. Washington 3-1 693 15Sunday Invitational Women's basketball at Old 22. Oklahoma St. 4-1 254 16. Louisiana St. 6-1 667 16 Men's basketball vs. UCLA, 4 p.m. Jan.2 Dominion, 7:35p.m. 23. Oregon St. 4-1 231 24 17. Mississippi 6-1 539 19 
24. 
Florida 2-1 214 25 18. Vanderbilt 8-1

25. 
Michigan St. 6-0 172 19. DePaul 4-1 s46 22


Dec.21 Hockey at Air Force, 7:30 p.m. Hockey at Kent State, 7:30p.m. 485 21 
Men's basketball vs. Jan.3 Men's basketball at LaSalle, 7:30 
20. South Carolina 3-2 306 17
VALPARAISO, 7:30p.m. Hockey at Air Force, 7:30 p.m. 
21. St. Joseph's 3-1 276 23Dec.22 Men's basketball at Creighton, 7 
22. Tenn'see Tech 4-1 248 20
Others receiving votes: LaSalle 161, N.
Women's basketball vs. UCLA, p.m. 23. Old Dominion 3-3 236 18
Carolina 97, Clemson 75, Arkansas-Little 
24. Hawaai 5-0 r26 25
7:30p.m. Jan.4 Rock 51, Pittsburgh 45,Virginia 40, Loyola 
25. S. Mississippi 5-0 109Men's basketball vs. LAFAYETIE, Women's basketball vs. Marymount 39, Minnesota 39, Penn State 
Women's basketball (4-1) 34, Temple 34,Texas 34, Texas -EI Paso
7:30p.m. VANDERBILT, 7:30 p.m. 
28, Seton Hall 19, Wake Forest 15,
Dec.28 Jan.5 Notre Dame 75, Indiana 67 
Houston 13, Cal-Santa Bargara 11, Notre Others receiving votes: ProvidenCe 1 02, Hockey at Milwaukee Tournament Hockey at Arizona, 7:30 p.m. Notre Dame 87, Marquette 67 Dame 6, Georgia 5, Old Dominion 5, Kentucky 41, Ohio St. 37, N. Illinois 36, (Wisconsin, Boston College, Jan.6 Men's basketball (1-3) Connecticut 4, E. Tennessee State 4, Connecticut 34, Illinois St. 20, Montana Marquette 80, Notre Dame 68 Colorado 3, Florida State 3, Hawaii 3, 19,UCLA 17, Villanova 12, Oregon 10,
Minnesota-Duluth) Hockey at Arizona, 7:30 p.m. 
Kansas State 3, Marquette 3, New Mexico Duke 9, La calla 9, Blorida St. 7, Illinois 6, 
Dec.29 Women's basketball at Toledo, Hockey (10-4-0) 
State 3, Purdue 3, W. Virginia 3, Villanova Kansas 6, Bowling Green 4, Iowa St. 3,
Ferris State 7-7, Notre Dame 5-2 
Hockey at Milwaukee Tournament 7:30p.m 2, Brigham Young 1, /<.entucky 1 , Notre Dame 3, Penn St. 3, Southern Cal 3, Women's basketball at Temple, 7 Men's basketball at USC, 2 p.m. Wrestling Princeton 1, S.W. Louisiana 1, Wisconsin Colorado 2, Miami, Fla. 2, Northwestern 2, 
p.m. Jan.9 Notre Dame 23. Illinois State 12 1, Xavier , Ohio 1. Rutgers 2, Fairfield 1 . 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
1 STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD: l1 WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY NIGHT AT CARROLL AUD. 9:00 AND f ..l 11:15, $1.00 admission rl "A MIRACLE ON 34TH STREET " f j co-sponsored by the Senior Class f ~ Chimes Literary Magazine is now accepting submisisons-f .4 any short stories, drawings, or poems accepted r l submit to CHIMES office -310 Modeleua f J SMC STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD and ALL OF SMC f
1 f
STUDENT GOVERNMENT WISHES ND AND SMC A SAFE AND 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~1l~\t~o~~~a-&~~~~~~~~~~! 
page 10 The Observer Wednesday, December 13, 1989 
Oilers not looking past Cincinnati 
Soviet boxers move training to Toronto
HOUSTON (AP) The "I want to win the division possible this season. Houston Oilers aren't looking this week so we can get it out "At some point or another in past Sunday's game against the of the way," wide receiver the season somebody has writ­Cincinnati Bengals, but they are Ernest Givins said. "When we ten us off." looking ahead to their playoff win the division, we can concen-The Oilers held off Tampa possibilities. trate on the last game and Bay 20-17 while Cincinnati and 
The Oiler (9-5) could clinch earning the home-field advan-Cleveland were losing Sunday, their first outright division title tage." projecting the Oilers into posi­if they beat Cincinnati on The Oilers should be prepared tion to clinch the title against Sunday or Cleveland in the for any situation over the re-the defending AFC champion Astrodome Dec. 23. mainder of the season. Bengals. 
"We know being division They've shut out Pittsburgh The Oilers won't need to seek champs is within our grasp, but 27-0 and been shut out 34-0 by out motivation for the rest of it doesn't stop in Cincinnati, be-Kansas City. the season, guard Bruce cause we still have the oppor-They've lost on the road but Matthews says. tunity to win the home field ad-they've also won on the road in "This is an AFC Central vantage," fullback Alonzo bad weather, contrary to their game, and that's motivation Highsmith said. road image. enough," he said. "Besides, I'd 
The Oilers have the second "We've been in every situation be happy to clinch the division best record in the AFC behind possible," Highsmith said. anywhere." Denver (10-4). If they finish "You don't like to lose games, "I'd rather be playing with the second best record, the but you can benefit if you learn Detroit, because having to go Oilers would host at least one from them. This team, we've to Cincinnati makes it playoff game. been through every situation tougher," he said. 
TORONTO (AP) -Seven Soviet boxers announced Tuesday they will train in Toronto for their first pro­fessional lights. 
''I'm sure we will succeed not only in the boxing ring, but in the business side as well," said manager Boris Gitman, a Soviet immigrant living in Toronto. "There is enough talent in the Soviet Union to go all the way to the top." 
The seven. all Soviet cham­pions in their weight classes, were introduced at a news conference by Gitman, New York promoter Lou Falcigno and Evgenie lstomin, a 

spokesman for the Ministry of Sport in the Soviet Union. Falcigno signed a deal with Soviets some time ago. 
"Perestroika and glasnost have opened up the Soviet Union so it's now possible to get Soviet boxers," Falcigno said. "One light between a Soviet heavyweight, of course with the right buildup,· and a Mike Tyson could easily be a quarter of a billion dollars." 
Though no dates, site or opponents have been lined up, Falcigno foresees the Soviets making their pro de­but in March. The boxers will train in Toronto. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, tncluding spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES  LOST: 3 1/2" Macintosh Disk. White-no label. Disk name:  FLORIDA KEYS-ORANGE BOWL Marathon, Fla Keys-2hrs Miami  ORANGE BOWL FLIGHTS CALL 1-800-7DOMERS  '''PITT CLUB'.. The Pittsburgh bus sign-ups will be  LAST MINUTE CHRISTMAS SHOPPING!' We have Christmas  
Second Year. Tuesday night, 1215,  Dec. 23-30; 212; Sleeps 6 Sun,  Wednesday. 13 and Thurs. 14  Computer Paper, Real Christmas  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL  Library Mac Lab. Reward. Contact  Fishing, Snorkeling, Pool  Chicago · $295  from 7-8 p.m. in LaFortune lobby.  Trees and much more.  The  
MRS. COKER. 233-7009.  Mark Esposito 271-8861  $1000+$200 Security Deposit 813­ Cincinnati  · $245  Cost is $65 Round Trip. One way if  Country Harvester, lower level  
996-6159 After 9pm EST  Cleveland -$311  available. Sign-up early to reserve  LaFortune  
WORDPROCESSING  Dallas  -$320  seat. Buss leaves Thursday Dec,  
272-8827 TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 TEXTBOOKS BOUGHT AND SOLD PANDORA'S BOOKS CORNER OF N.D. AVE. AND HOWARD 233-2342 LOTS OF PAPERBACKS IN  HELPI I lost my room key somewhere between NOH and LaFortune on 1216. If you found it, PLEASE call x1124. LOST: 35 mm Vivitar Camera at the Lyons-Dillon Formal. Name is etched on the back. Please return if found-Reward. CALL X2900.  House available 1990-91 school year. Furnished, well maintained, secure home. 5 bedrooms, WID, close to campus. Competitive rent. Call 264-6010 2 ROOMS TO RENT IN PRIVATE HOME. PARK AVE. AREA KITCHEN PRIVILEGES, LOCAL PHONE. $45/WEEK. CAROL 234· 2440.  Denver-$351 Detroit -$280 Louisville -$245 Philadelphia -$270 New Orleans -$200 LaGuardia-$310 Boston -$328 Pittsburgh -$320 Los Angeles -$440 CALL 1-800-7DOMERS MOST FLIGHTS 12129 AND 1/3.  21 at 10:00 p.m. and returns January, 15 at 12 noon from Pgh. Questions call Kevin 288-4420 or Steve at 1177. ...PITT CLUB'.. Fly to sunny Calif. for the holidays. 1 -way ticket to LA on Dec. 19. Lv. O'hare 12:35 p.m. & arrive LAX 4:30. Only $90. Call 284-5044.  To everone A-going to Chicago and The Nutcracker last Saturday, thanks for a great time...even though we all didn't have scarves. Inspector Gadget P.S. What happened to the third act anyway? Rick's Top Six Quotes (of the Fall Semester) 6. I'm a Cyber-ball god. 5. Could you use your favor to  
STOCK!  WANTED  Nice furnished homes for next  SEATS ARE LIMITED.  make her go out with me? 4. Is Ag short for tag?  
TYPING  school year. Close to NO. 277­ HIAG!  HITOPH!!  3. I hate it when people think  
PICKUP & DELIVERY 277-7406 NASSAU & CANCUN for Spring Break '90 -Jell X3686 -Kathy @4326(SMC)  OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo. Summer,yr.round,AII Countries, All fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del Mar CA 92625.  3097. 4 BR, N.D. Ave., furnished house for rent beginning AUG. 90. GRAD STUDENTS OR SRS. RESERVE NOW! 259-7801 days or 255-5852  Roll TIDE, Roll!!! Roll TIDE, Roll! II Roll TIDE, Roll!!!  JUST WANTED TO SAY HI & HAPPY HOLIDAYS AS FOR NEW YEARS-1991 ••• I ACCEPT! ••• WUB NU -YOUR TSYT  my hair is take. 2. I'm at least as cool as William Shatner. 1. My name is Rick but you can call me Dr. Funkenstein.  
NEED RIDE to WASH. D.C. AREA leaving Dec. 22 WILL SHARE EXPENSES! PLEASE CALL JEN 284-4314  ATTENTION-HIRING! GOVERNMENT JOBS-YOUR AREA $17,840-$69,485. CALL 1­602-838-8885. EXT R 6262. FEDERAL,STATE AND CIVIL SERVICE JOBS!  evenings/wknds. House available 1990-91 school year. Furnished, well maintained, secure home. 5 bedrooms, WID, close to campus. Competitive rent. Call264-6010  Roll TIDE, Roll!!! I AM WILLING TO PAY BIG BUCKS FOR AN ORANGE BOWL GA. PLEASE CALL KELLY AT #1342  SANDYB II!!! Sandy B is the horse's a ! She's the meanest. She sucks the horse's p ____I Sandy B is the horse's a __!!! If you see Sansha the  Goodbye Tree! We are going to miss you. Write !! Happy Birthday Trey! (Yes I do know that this wish comes early.) Guess Who?  
TYPING term papers/reports/letters/resumes. Pick up & delivery available. 277· 5134 Cathy. ' LOST/FOUND I Lost: Cross Felt Tip Pen bearing the AT&T logo. It has sentimental Value. If found please call Joe@ x3804. REWARD!! REWARD!! REWARD!!!  NOW HIRING THIS AREA! $10,271 T0$84,157. IMMEDIATE OPENINGS! CALL 1­315-733-6062 EXT# F2382H FOR CURRENT LISTING. RIDERS NEEDED­I'M DRIVING HOME TO WASH. DC WED. DEC 20TH. WILL TAKE RIDERS. CALL 1511. RIDERS NEEDED for travel from  605 St. Peter 5 Bedroom furnished house for 5 or 6 available spring 1990 call Elmer 288-3942 4 BR on N.D. AVE. FURNISHED. RESERVE NOW FOR AUGUST '90! 259-7801 DAYS OR 255-5852 EVENINGS AND WEEKENDS. Furnished Apt. near N.D. tor next semester.$140/MO.+UTIL 1 male  SANTA IS COMING SANTA IS COMING GET YOUR PICTURE TAKEN WITHSANTAONDEC.14 FROM NOON-5PM IN LAFORTUNE SANTA IS COMING THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune 6¢ Copies, Binding, FAX OPEN EARL Y,LATE,&WEEKENDS  Sumo Wrestler today, wish her a HAPPY BELATED BIRTH-DAY!! --love, all members of the NO women's basketball team, both past and present PHILIP KRAKER!!!! Merry Christmas and Happy New Year! It's not going to be the same without you. But don't forget--this is the last time we'll have to do it!!  TO CHESTER, THE MARATHON SNUGGLERI ARE YOU READY FOR ANOTHER 26 HOURS OF HEAVY SNUGGLING? LOVE, SNUGGLES.  
..  LOST : Navy I cream down coat at NO Ave. Apts. If found, please call  SB to San Diego-lv p.m. 12120-any city near route ok­CALL JAMES@ 237-9533!  needed.3 male roommates already. Call Todd 232-5571  Buy Observer Classifieds! People will get the message.  Good luck on finals honey, love, Molly  Hey EVERYBODY' Come to Senior Bar TONIGHT,  
Whitney@ x-2744. Thanks. HELP !I! Lost one brown leather bomber jacket Saturday night at the Worm!! In the pockets were my J.D.'s, glasses, and a Kodak camera! Please call if you have any information concerning this coat!! Call: Tina @284-5199 $tOO REWARD If you have my tan camelhair overcoat lost at SMC Junior Formal. I need the coat and $100 will buy you alot of X-mas presents. CALL 283-3270 LOST: 35mm Vivitar Camera at Lyons-Dillon Formal. Reward. If found please call 2900. LOST/FOUND Someone took the wrong blue blazer at the P.E. formal. My wallet is in the pocket. Call John at x 1225 to switch FREE BEER' Hope I got your attention. I lost a black right glove Fri. nile probably at Fencing House on St. Lawrence, Flanner or Knott or somewhere near any of those places. It was brand new so big reward will be given for return of info! call 284-4049 HELP MEl! I lost a set of four keys sometime last Wednesday or Thursday. They are on an oval, clear blue rubber keychain. If you have them, or know where they are, please call BARB at x4858. THANKS!  Earn $300-$500 per week reading books at home. Callt-615-473­7440 Ext. 8340 FEDERAL, STATE AND CIVIL SERVICE JOBS! NOW HIRING THIS AREA $10,271 TO $84,157. IMMEDIATE OPENINGS! CALL 1· 315-733-6062 EXT#F2382H FOR CURRENT LISTING. WANTED: Entrepreneurial students to work as marketing reps on-campus for our MasterCard and Visa Card program as well as other popular student offers. Just two to four flexible hours per week with unlimited earnings potential! Applications being taken for January 1990 openings. Call today: 1-800-821-1543. HELP!! My roommate lost his student loan and can't return. Need 1 male to share 2 BR twnhse nxt sem, help pay rent &utils. Call 272-3618, lv msg. NEED RIDE TO NY & BACK. ANYTIME BETWEEN DEC. 22 TO EARLY JAN. SHARE EXPENSES. 232-1662 HOLLY EVENINGS. FOR RENT MALE/FEMALE HOUSEMATE NEEDED FOR NEXT SEMESTER. OWN BEDROOM, CLOSE TO CAMPUS, HOUSE IN GREAT CONDITION. 120/MO. +UTIL. PLEASE CALL 289-4621. 2 Roomates needed. Turtle Creek. Low rent, Walk to campus, Cable TV, more. 272-7449  2 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS. 272-6306 7 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS. NEXT FALL OR SUMMER.272­6306 FOR SALE BI,JYING can be CHEAPER than Rl:NTING! INVEST in your FUTURE! Call MARILYN KULLER to DISCOVER how! RE/MAX 100 Realty, 255-5858, 234-6325 GOING TO THE ORANGE BOWL? I HAVE A 1 WAY PLANE TICK. 4 SALE. JAN 9 FROM MIAMI TO WASHINGTON/SALT. VERY CHEAPICALL 1511. TICKETS 4 UCLA GAs FOR SALE.272-6306 PERSONALS I ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF PRAYEA AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: POOR CLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY RD., 300 W., KOKOMO, IN 46901. ADOPTION -Well-educated couple eager to adopt a baby. Cheerful home full of books. Flexible on sharing information with birthmother about child. Our adoption agency can provide counseling and references. Please call collect 309-827-3135 eves/wknds for profile/photo. James and Hollis.  If you need a ride home or you want to wish your friends a Merry Christmas, today is the last day to put in Observer Classifieds. Deadline is 3pm Need a ride to Oak Park, II. 12121. CaiiX(284)-4140or4140. Hey quint! You're too wild!!! .....SPRING BREAK '90'.... Bahamas! Cancun! 7 niles, r-1 air &transfers, booze cruise and parties, & much more!! From $299 JUST DO IT! NOW!! ~~.~:.:~.~~.~~!~~.~~.~26(SMC) To everyone who A-WENT to Chicago and the Nutcracker this last Saturday, thanks for A-GREAT time... even though we all didn't have scarves. ---INSPECTOR GADGET P.S. What happened to the third act anyway? rrn. 358 Zahm we loved your ZODIAC MINDWARP and the Love Reaction so much we just had to take it. P.S. Mike, which one are you? KATHY AND MICHELE, Good luck on finals! Have a great time in London next semester. I'll miss you. Love, Scott Desperately looking for ride to St. Louis, Quincy, IL or S.IA over Xmas. Call 284-5071. Maureen $$$  Happy Holidays to the Fightin' Fags of 814!1! Don't eat too much. Don't think too much. And by all means, make a New Year's resolution to give up those recreational drugs. We'll find another quad habit for second semester. See ya soon fags, love the invisible fag p.s. GO NISES ! Merry Christmas and Happy New Year Mary and Sunshine! Remember in the immortal words of Clarence the Angel: No man is a failure who has friends! Love, Molly March for Life DC bus signups forJan22taken Wed 7-9 pm OHara Lounge LaF Right to Life DC bus signups taken Wed 7-9 pm OHara Lounge LaF WE NEED YOUR$ NOW! ADOPTION Doctor & artist, happily married, warm, seek white newborn to love and cherish. Legal, confidentiaL Please call Hanna & Mark collect (212) 864­5512 ICEBERG DEBATES Deadline to turn in applications to Hall Presidents is Dec. 1 0 Get involved now! ICEBERG DEBATES  10:30 PM to wish MARGE (Peggy) McGUNIGAL a happy 21st 8-Day. We'll send her around the world, and then some. PARROTHEADS FOREVER!!! For Sale: Plane ticket to ROCHESTER, NY Lv O'Hare 11 AM, 12121 40$ or bo Callt329 JULIE PARKER To my best friend and second half' Just remember, when your walking to the bathroom, I'll be doing the same! (so make sure you remember the TIME DIFFERENCE when you go!) You know I will MISS you! Have FUN next semester and keep in touch. MIAMI here we come!! Love, STEPH If you need a ride home or you want to wish your friends a Merry Christmas, today is the last day to put in Observer Classifieds. The deadline is 3pm. To Amy, Erica, Kelly, Mary, Meg, Nicole and everyone in 215 Holy Cross on Dec. 1st. Thanks for the great party. We will really miss you guys!I Love Beth and Jan  

Wednesday, December 13, 1989 The Observer page 11 
Celtics still slumping despite return of Bird 
BOSTON (AP) -In story­books, the long-lost hero simply shows up and makes everything right. In the fantasies of Boston Celtics fans, that hero is Larry Bird. 
In the competitive world of the NBA. nothing is that simple. 
"I don't think Larry just walking into the gym is going to immediately make us a team that can't be beaten," Coach Jimmy Rodgers said. 
The evidence to support that contention keeps mounting. A quarter of the way into their season, the Celtics are a team in trouble. 
They are 11-9, just two games better than their record aftPr 20 games last year when Bird played only the first six games. Their 32-point loss to New York last Saturday night was their biggest deficit in nine seasons. They are last in the league at forcing turnovers, a statistic that verifies their lack of quickness and aggressive­ness. 
John Bagley, their only reli­able point guard now that Brian Shaw is playing in Italy, is out with a dislocated shoul­der. Their best shooting guard, Reggie Lewis, has a strained hamstring. 
And Hodgers seems to be playing roulette in using his guards in ever-changing com­binations that confuse players as well as partisans. 
The spotlight, as always, has been on Bird. 
On Nov. 19, 1988, he had bone spurs removed from both heels and missed the rest of last season. The Celtics, the winningest franchise in NBA history, didn't clinch a playoff spot until the final day of the regular season and lost to Detroit, 3-0, in the first playoff round. 
But they had an excuse. They played almost the entire season without one of the best players in NBA history. 
This season, that excuse doesn't work. A broken bone in Bird's back was.far less serious than first thought when it oc­curred during the team's sum­mer camp on July 29. He was practicing two days later. 
Perhaps expectations were too high. Boston went 7-1 in preseason games and won its first two regular-season games, the second at Chicago on Bird's basket with three seconds left. 
But only four players remain from Boston's last title team in 1986. It has taken time for Bird and the other veterans to mesh with six teammates who weren't on the team when last season began. 
"When you run people in and out a lot, there are different rotations and a different style," Bird said. "Everybody here tries to play together, so it's no big problem." 
Bird leads Boston with a 22.6-point scoring average, his lowest since 1980-81, excluding last season. He is second on the team with 9.8 rebounds and 6.6 assists per game. 
"It's a team sport," Rodgers said. "We're not depending on Larry Bird to be the only person out there to win basketball games for us." 
After hearing Bird say time after time that he feels fine,_ re-porters have stopped asking. Now they want to know why his shooting is so sickly. 

"I had some good opportuni­ties to score," he said after a 113-98 victory over the Knicks last Wednesday night, during which he missed 16 of 25 shots. "I just didn't hit them." 
He hasn't hit 50 percent of his shots in any of his last five games. He has missed 17 shots in two games, 16 in two others and 15 in another two. His ~5.3 

Knight threatens to quit show 
NEW COURSE FOR BUSINESS JUNIORS 
NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S STUDENTS 
>>> BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS <<< 
1 CREDIT HOUR COURSE 
MEETS THURSDAY ONLY 
11:00 OR 1:15 SECTION 
FOCUS ON: WRITING SKILLS SPEAKING SKILLS INTERPERSONAL SKILLS NON-VERBAL COMMUNICATION 
SEE PROF. WILLIAMSON IN ROOM 131 HAYES-HEALY FOR MORE INFORMATION AND/OR FOR REGISTRATION 

field goal percentage is the lowest in his 11 NBA seasons. Did the long layoff hurt? 
"I don't have an answer for that," Rodgers said. "I just know that great shooters like that normally find ways to im­prove." 
For better or worse, at least Bird is shooting. He had felt constrained by Rodgers' em­phasis on moving the ball and spreading out the scoring. 
Redmen roll past Rams 
NEW YORK (AP) -Boo Harvey scored 20 points and No. 18 St. John's beat Fordham 68-60 Tuesday night, the Redmen's 21st consecutive vic­tory over the Rams. 
The last time Fordham (4-3) beat St. John's (7-2) was Feb. 13,1971. St. John's coach Lou Carnesecca has not lost to the Rams in 24 games. 
Fordham appeared to have a chance to end that streak when a bank shot by Andre McClendon tied the game 48-48 with 12:29 to play. 
But St. John's Billy Singleton scored the next four points for the Redmen and set up the next basket as the Redmen went on a 7-0 run. Fordham never got closer than five points the rest of the game. 
111.-Chicago 65, MSU. 57 
CHICAGO (AP) -Brian Hill's 3-point basket snapped a 52-52 tie and unheralded Illinois­Chicago went on to upset 25th­ranked Michigan State 65-57 Tuesday night. 
It was the Spartan's first loss in seven games this season. S. Illinois 77, Evansville 73 
CARBONDALE, Ill. (AP) ­Freddie McSwain made four free-throws in the final 1:15 to break a 73-73 deadlock and help pull Southern Illinois past Evansville 77-73 Tuesday. 
In the first half, the Salukis led 30-26 with 5:18 left when they capitalized on three technical fouls assessed to the Aces in less than a minute and increased their lead to 37-26 at the 4:27 mark. 
Junior guard Sterling Mahan scored 15 of his team-high 20 points in the first half. 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP) ­Indiana University basketball coach Bob Knight made an on­air threat to stop doing his ra­dio show because it contained a beer commercial. 
Knight became upset during Monday night's broadcast of "The Bob Knight Show" on WXTZ-AM. He has been an out­spoken critic of drug abuse and in February agreed to help Gov. Evan Bayh wage a statewide campaign against drugs. 
On Tuesday, a station spokokesman said Knight 
would return to the airwaves next week. 
"He has a problem doing al­cohol-type commericials on his show, and we can respect that," said Randy Harris, oper­ations manager for WXTZ and WMJC-FM. "So the advertising agency has agreed not to put those type of commercials on the radio show." 
The beer commercials will, however, continue to air during the station's coverage of IU basketball games. 


.. -~----~---,---------~---~------­
page 12 
Slump 
continued from page 16 

right now. In practice, I'm 
working as hard as I earL 
Everything will fall into place, 
I'm just not sum wlwn." 

Cold shooting is not even the 
biggest problmn fadng Notre 
Danw right now. The Irish have 
also had trouble holding on to 
the ball bl'fore putting it up, 
tlwir last two games. 

Irish forward Keith 
Hobinson. charged with seven 
turnovers against Marqtwtte, 
says the problem is a lack of 
tenacity. 

"We've got to execute better and play with more aggres­sion." said the 6-9 senior. "Once the game starts, we should play aggressively, rather than trying to eo me back." 
1\lmer Bennett. who started with I>aimon Sweet in place of Fredrick and Jackson against Marquette, blames the turnovers on a lack of focus. 
"It all comes down to mental concentration," said the 6-1 guard. "We just haV!~n't had our heads into it the past two games. We keep having to fight from behind. We've got to come out and jump on people." 
If turnovers and poor shoot­ing are th1~ problems, it is tough to dismiss this losing streak by saying that things will get better with the return of l.aPhonso Ellis. A post player, Ellis cannot directly make the shooters get hot or help the backcourt maintain possession of the ball. 
Nonetheless, Ellis' return ddinitely will improve this team. The problem is that the schedule gets better also. With three losses already. you have to figure the Irish can only stumble seven more times to earn an NCM berth. Otherwise, 

The Observer I Pat Kusek 
Co-captain Jamere Jackson and the rest of the Notre Dame men's basketball team are searching for answers in the midst of a three­game losing streak. The Irish meet UCLA on Sunday. 
get out the red, white and blue trips to Creighton, LaSalle, NIT basketballs; "HemembPr... Hutgers, LSU, Duke, SMU. it's Denver" has turned into the Houston, Syracuse and DePaul. "Grapple for the Apple." That translates into 10 more meetings with participants in 
Games still left on the Irish last year's NCAA tournament. schedule include home dates No matter when Ellis returns, with UCLA, Wichita State, the Irish had better take care Marquette, DePaul. Georgia of those problems with shoot­Tech ami Kentucky, along with ing and turnovers in a hurry. 
Wednesday, December 13, 1989 
NCAA nails Wolfpack for multiple violations 
HAI.EIGII, N.C. (AP) -North Carolina State's basketball team was placed on two yt~ars' probation Tuesday and barred from the 1990 NCAA tourna­ment for violations that in­cluded tlw misuse of compli­mentary tickets and snnakNs. 
The NCAA said it did not im­
pose harsher penalties, indud­
ing a ban from tnlevision, 
because the school "undertook 
corrective and punitive aetions 
prior to the hearing." 
Interim chancellor Larry Monteith said there wnre no plans to fire anyone, including Coach Jim Valvano. 
Valvano said being barred from the NCAA tournament was "as serious a hurt and blow as I have had personally in my life." 
"We accept the NCAA find­ings and its punishment," he said. 
The Atlantic Coast Conference could have barred N.C. Statn from the league tournament, which gives the winm1r an au­tomatic NCM tournarm~nt bid. 
"They have the right to take that action," Monteith said. "If they take that action. we won't resist." 
But ACC commissioner Gene Corrigan on Tuesday said the Wolfpaek would be allowed to participate in the eonferenee tournament. 
"We had a meeting today," Corrigan told Haleigh radio station WHAL-FM. "It was a scheduled meeting and there was no thought that any of the business on N.C. State would bn coming down today. But I larold llopfnnberg, the acting athletic director, carne to the meeting and requested that the confer­

enee give them a decision today 
on th11 ACC tournament." 
Valvano said it would have 
been inappropriate to ban his 
team from the ACC tournanwnt. 
"I don't think that our partic­
ipation would adversPly affect 
anyorw." hn said, noting that as 
many as six ACC teams usually 
qualify for the tournanwnt on 
records alone. 
"I think our eonfnrence has 
that rnlative stnmgth that prior 
to the tournament you know 
who is in," he said. 
N.C. State narrwd $707,000 from last year's NCAA tourna­ment. 
The NCAA invnstigation, sparked by allegations of wrongdoing in the book "Personal Fouls," said that in the four ynars examined "there were as many as 650 erroneous designations" of ticknts in­tnnded for players' families and that "an excessive number of shoes wern issund with little or no eff~~rt to keep track of the shoes. 
Tickets wnre sold or fJX­changnd for mnrchandise worth up to $150 each, the NCAA said. Shoes, valued at $75 per pair, were traded for shoes and apparel of equal value at a local sporting goods storn, thn report said. 
"Personal Fouls," written by Petnr Golenbock, claimPd grades had bnen changed and positive drug tests kept serret to keep players eligible. In a telephone intervif'w from Pompano Beach, Fla., he said he was surprised the NCAA fo­cused on playnrs instead of "the tandem of Valvano and former Chancellor Bruce Poulton." 

'• .. -¥', 
We knew we weren't the only ones who loved and appreciated you, Carlie Schubert! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
from Mom and Dad -and Mary, Amanda, Liz, Lauren, Sarah, et all! 
Wednesday, December 13, 1989 The Observer page 13 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Any students who have their Red Cross water safety in­structors certification and who are interested in teaching swimming during the second semester to children of Notre Dame faculty, staff and administration should contact Dennis Stark at 239-5983 before leaving for semster break. 
lnterhall football equipment final return will be 2 p.m. Friday, Dec. 15, at Gate 9 of the stadium. Failure to return equipment will result in a $170 charge to your student ac­count. 
Women's track will have a mandatory meeting with the athletic director at 7 p.m. Wednesday, Dec. 13, in the foot­ball auditorium. Call x2870 for more information. 
Tae Kwon Do Club competed in the annual NATKDA Tournament in Bristol last weekend. Kevin McKay, Tim Kalamaros, Mike Corbellini, Lisa Cabral, Kurt Lauber, Chris Benzinger and Ronald Shin earned three first-place and two second-place trophies for the Irish. 
WVFI Sports will hold the finals of Trivia Bowl '89 at 8 
p.m. Thursday night in Montgomery Theatre. Flanner and Zahm will compete for the title. The event will not be broad­cast on the air. 
Yankees acquire Leary for two minor-leaguers 
NEW YORK (AP) -The New York Yankees said they needed to add another starting pitcher and they did Tuesday, acquiring Tim Leary from the Cincinnati Reds for two minor leaguers. 
The Yankees, whose 4.50 earned-run average was the second-worst in baseball last season behind Detroit, sent outfielder Hal Morris and right-hander Rodney Imes to the Reds for Leary and minor­league outfielder Van Snider. 
Leary, 8-14 in 1989 with a 
3.52 ERA, joins Andy Hawkins and Pascual Perez as definite starters. Leary said he wasn't apprehensive about coming to the Yankees, whose constant turmoil was one of the reasons Mark Langston and Mark Davis turned down George 
Steinbrenner's  millions  and  
signed elsewhere.  
"There's  always  that  un­ 

known factor," Leary said from his home in Los Angeles. "You 
read and hear about the con­troversy going on. That's something I'll get to see first hand. I'm just looking forward to pitching. The other stuff doesn't really bother me." 
Leary, a 31-year-old right­hander who is joining his fifth team, is 45-56 lifetime. He was 17-11 with a 2.91 ERA in 1988 but was just 6-7 last July 18 when the Dodgers traded him to Cincinnati with Mariano Duncan for Kal Daniels and Lenny Harris. Leary went 2-7 in 14 starts for the Reds with a 
3.71 ERA. 
"It gets real defeating when you come out of a game losing 2-1 and the chances are 90 per­cent you're going to get a loss," Leary said. 
He lost 13 games as a starter last year and the Reds and Dodgers scored just 17 runs in those losses. 
"LA gets tired after a while," Leary said. 
Happy 21st Birthday 
''Moosh'' 

Love, 
Mom, Dad, Michael and Muggs 
FAMILY SKATE NIGHT 
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15 
5:30 ·7:45PM JACC ICE RINK 

A VISIT FROM SANTA GAMES REFRESHMENTS 
FUN FOR THE WHOLE FAMILY FREE SKATE RENTALS WHILE THEY LAST 
Williams, Wood shining for Irish 
Duo has qualified for NCAA Swimming Tournament 

By MARY GARINO 
Sports Writer 
Until this year, no Notre Dame swimmer had ever quali-· 
fied for the NCAA Division I championships. 
Now,  suddenly,  two  have  
qualified.  
Junior  Becky  Wood  and  

freshman Tanya Williams both swam well enough this fall to earn lane assignments at the NCAAs, marking an achieve­ment for them and for the Notre Dame swimming pro­gram. 
Wood qualified last weekend in the 200-yard breaststroke at the dual meet between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's with a time of 2:19. 
The news is twice as good for Williams, who has been the most consistent swimmer for the Irish women's swim team this year. She qualified not only for one event, but for another as well. 
Her time in the 200-yard but­terfly (2:01) at the National Catholic Meet earlier this month was good enough for an NCAA berth. and she followed up that performance with an­other qualifying time in the meet against Saint Mary's last weekend. In that race, Williams swam a 4:22 in the 400-yard individual medley. 
But Williams' performance should come as no surprise. The Boca Raton, Fla., native was a finalist in the 1988 Olympic trials with a fifth-place finish in the 200-yard individual medley and came to Notre Dame as one of the most re­cruited high school seniors in the nation. 
Becky Wood 
"There are two things that are exciting about Tanya," Irish head caoch Tim Welsh said. " It's exciting to know that a swimmer of her caliber would choose Notre Dame, and it's exciting to know that she will continue to swim at the most elite level possible." 
Wood's swimming success story is from a totally diff~rent script than Williams'. Wood had never even swam a 200­yard breaststroke race before she got to college, and has trained hard for three years to get to the NCAAs. 
"I set the goal to make it when I was a freshman," Wood said. "I trained really hard in the summers, and I guess this fall it all came together. The team has been really support­ive." 
Wood's performance came a week after Williams qualified for the first time, giving her the motivation to push herself. 
"Knowing that she could do it made me believe in myself," Wood said. "The funny thing is, both of us swam really terrible in practice the week before the meet." 
Tanya Williams 
Both Williams and Wood have . given a bit of support to the 
Notre Dame swimming pro­
gram, which Welsh is hoping to 
mold into a national contender. 
The fact that two Irish swim­
mers qualified for the NCAAs is 
a step in the right direction. 
"Both qualifying times repre­
sent both ends of the sp~ctrum 
of national achievement," 
Welsh said. "We need people 
like Tanya, who are among the 
elite swimmers, and we need 
people with talent and ambition 
but who have not yet achieved 
national standards. It's now 
clear to everyone on the team 
that the door to the national 
championships is open." 
Using last year's results as a 
yardstick, the times for both 
swimmers would put them in 
the top ten in the country at the 
NCAAs, which will take place 
over St. Patrick's Day weekend. 
"Because the qwilifying stan­
dards are so tough, it's both 
unusual and exciting for a 
swimmer to qualify this early," 
Welsh said. 

Wood and Williams already 
hold university records, and 
they are hoping to add good 
performances at the NCAAs. 
Rutgers fires football coach after poor year 
PISCATAWAY, N.J. (AP) ­Rutgers University fired foot­ball coach Dick Anderson on Tuesday, citing the Scarlet Knights' poor record the last two seasons. 
Athletic director Frederick E. Gruninger said the decision was based on the team's field record alone. and praised Anderson's performance in strengthening the program since coming to the school in 1984. 
"However, as we project our program for the 90s, we needed to reverse a downward trend of the last two years which does not reflect our desired level of competitiveness and expecta­tions," Gruninger said. 
Anderson's record over six seasons was 27-34-4. The Scarlet Knights went 5-6 in 1988. They won two and tied two at this season's outset, then lost the next seven games. 
The university also fired all nine of Anderson's assistant coaches. 
Gruninger said a search for a replacement would begin im­mediately, and that the con­tracts of Anderson and his staff would be honored through the end of the academic year. 
Gruninger refused to provide details of the contracts, excect to say they were multi-year and that the university had the right to dismiss the coaches. 
The athletic director said he recommended firing Anderson, and the decision -made Tuesday afternoon -was ap­proved by "key" board mem­bers and the university's acting president, T. Alexander Pond. Anderson was informed shortly thereafter. 
Pond took over after the death Thursday of university president Edward Bloustein. 
"As you all can imagine, we are a community in mourning," Gruninger told reporters in a conference call Tuesday evening. "Once a decision was 
made, we felt it was important 
to get on with it very quickly." 
Reached at home, Anderson's wife said he was not taking any calls. 
"I feel that my staff and I have made a significant contri­bution to the improvement of Rutgers football," he said. 
When asked for Anderson's reaction to the news, Gruninger said: "Dick is just a tremendous guy. It's not an easy situation for Dick Anderson." 
Before coming to Rutgers, Anderson was an assistant coach at Penn State for 11 years, three of them as offen­sive coordinator. He also had assistant positions at Pennsylvania and Lafayette. 
He posted a 7-3 record his first season at Rutgers. 
Anderson played Penn State between 1961 and 1963 and participated in two Gator Bowls. He was drafted by the Cleveland Browns but played weekend football for the semi­pro Newark Bears while pursu­ing a graduate degree at Penn State. 
Hey Guys, Thanks for a great time at the formal! 
Love, Cheryl & Terry 
P.S. Don't quit your day jobs! 
Wednesday, December 13, 1989
page 14 The Observer 
ApPhoto 
Charles Barkley scored 33 points, but the Sixers scored just 82 in a loss to the New Jersey Nets. 
Pacers hold off Minnesota in OT 

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Chuek Person scored 31 points and set up a wild finish in overtime as the surging Indiana Pacers held off the Minnesota Timberwolves 113-112. 
Indiana (12-5) is more than two months ahead of last season's pace. The Central Division-leading Pacers did not get their 12th victory last st~ason un­til their 52nd game on Feb. 24. 
Person missed a 3-point shot. but rebounded his miss and scored for a 113­109 lead with 5.2 seconds rematmng. Minnesota's Pooh Hichardson countered with a 3-pointer with 1.8 seconds left. Indiana's Mike Sanders missed two free throws with four-tenths of a second to play and Minnesota's Adrian Branch misst~d at the buzzer. 
Hulls 105, Mavericks 97 
CIIICAGO -Michael Jordan scored 41 points and the Chicago Bulls led almost the entire way Tuesday night, beating the 
'\lias Mavericks 105-97 
Guay 
continued from page 16 

When Guay puts away his hockny stick aftnr practice each day he usually opnns up a book bnfore too long. As a pre-mnd major he must deal with the pressures of a heavy academic load as wnll as his responsibili­ties to the hockey team. lin has already been accepted into medical school at Loyola of Chicago, but he hasn't yet de­cided whether he will enroll next fall. · 
For now, though, Guay and his tnam will have a few weeks off before they compete in the Milwaukee Tournament against national powers from Wisconsin, and Minnesota­Duluth and a pretty good team from Boston College on December 28 and 29. 
After the tounament they take to the road for two games each against Air Force, Arizona and Kent State. They do not have another home date scheduled until their January 26-27 dou­bleheader versus Army at the Joyce ACC. 
for their fifth victory in six games. 
Jordan, the NBA's top scorer with 32 points per game, had 21 in the fourth quarter. The Bulls led 84­81 midway through the fi­nal quarter before Jordan made a jump shot and a dunk, keying a 15-8 break. 
Hawks 102, Spurs 94 
ATLANTA  Moses  
Malone  scored  24  points  
and  Glenn  "Doc"  Hivers  

added 21 as the Atlanta Hawks posted their seventh consecutive victory, 102-94 over the San Antonio Spurs. 
Dominique Wilkins added 20 points for Atlanta. San Antonio rookie David Hobinson was in early foul trouble and played spar­ingly, and Terry Cummings and Maurice Cheeks each 
scored 18 points for the Spurs. 
Nets 97, 76ers 82 EAST HUTIIEHFOHD, 
N.J. -Dennis Hopson scored 14 of his 24 points during a 40-17 second-half run that carried the New Jersey Nets to a 97-82 vic­tory over the Philadelphia 76ers. 
Lakers 10:J, Hornets 89 
CHAHLOTTE. N.C. ­James Worthy, almost ejected early in the game, scored 27 points and grabbed eight rebounds as the Los Angeles Lakers fought past Charlotte 103­89, the Hornets' eighth straight loss. 
Magic Johnson scored 27 points and Byron Scott had 19 for the Lakers, who led 54-48 at halftime. 
Bucks 106, Magic 103 
MILWAUKEE Jay Humphries made two free throws with six seconds left as the Milwaukee Bucks held off a late rally to beat the Orlando Magic 106­103. 
Rockets 105, Suns 83 
HOUSTON Akeem Olajuwon scored 25 points. grabbed 20 rebounds and blocked nine shots to lead Houston to a 105-83 vic­tory over Phoenix and end a four-game losing streak. 
Redskins now on roll after loss to Cowboys 
IIEHNDON. Va. (AJ>) There's really no logical expla­nation for the rcsurgnnel) of the Washington Hedskins, who are 4-1 since a horrid loss to the lowly Dallas Cowboys last month. 
Who could have guessed that the Hedskins, racked by injuries and reeling with a 4-5 record after scoring only a field goal against the previously winless Cowboys, would rebound to stay alive in the playoff chase through mid-December? 
Not Coach Joe Gibbs. 
"By all rights, this shouldn't have happened," Gibbs said. "To lose that many players, and now to be playing better football than we were before. that shouldn't be the ease." 
Gibbs said he had no reason to expect the turnaround, con­sidering that Gerald Higgs, Mark May, Joe Jacoby and Darrell Green were among the starters out with injuries and Dexter Manley and Barry Wilburn were lost to the team 
because  of  drug  problems.  
Worse,  the  Hedskins  simply  
didn't  have  the  stability  re­ 

quired to be a winner. 
"In the first part of the sea­son we were awful," Gibbs said. "We made some great plays, yet we turn the ball over a bunch. It didn't seem like there was any steadiness in there, and there wasn't. 
"There were great inconsis­teneies, and I kopt waiting for (the team) to grab a formula, a chemistry." (;ibbs said. "I think we've got it now, amazingly enough, with a new bunch of guys." 

Hookie Mark Schlereth, the first native Alaskan to play in the NFL, has been a credible replacement for May, just as Ed Simmons filled in for Jacoby, and Earnest Hyner has made Higgs. now healthy, a second­stringer. 
The defense has been even more astonishing, considering that six starters in Sunday's 26-21 vietory over San Diego were on the bench or inactive for the season opener. Washington has surrend1~rcd only seven, second-half points in the last live games. 
A..J. Johnson and Martin Mayhew have replaced Green and Wilburn, Fred Stokes has moved in for Manley, and thn Hedskin defense is now ranked a respectable ninth in the NFL. 
"Our defense has jumped al­most 10 places in the league rankings," Gibbs marveled. "That really shouldn't have happened." 
The Hedskins' recent surge is reminiscent of their effort in last ynar's finale against Cincinnati, when Washington used the running of Jamie Morris to carry the eventual AFC Champions into owrtime before losing. 
Eagles ban sales of alcohol after incident with Cowboys 
PIIILADELPIIIA (AP) -Beer will not be sold at concession stands during Philadelphia Eagles games the rest of the season, a vending company ex­ecutive said Tuesday after join­ing the team and city in con­demning rowdy fans. 
"It was something that needed to be done," said Bruen Brown, general manager for Ogden-Allied Services Corp. 
The vendor is in the fourth year of a 15-year contract to sell beer at city-owned Veterans Stadium. 
Tho Eagles also announced a total ban on alcoholic bever­ages at tailgate parties sur­rounding the stadium. Until now, beer had been sold in the stadium for the first half of 

football games and drinking 
had  been  tolerated  at  one  
parking lot  south of  the  sta­ 
dium.  

The Eagles and the eity had asked Ogden-Allied to stop beer sales because they believed al­cohol abuse helped to cause snowball and iceball throwing and brawling Sunday at the Dallas game. 
The snowball attacks wors­ened as the game wore on. The Cowboys may have been the primary targets, but snow and icc hit officials, Eagles cheer­leaders and fans sitting in the line of lire. 
As the Cowboys left the field after the 20-10 loss, fans poured snow, ice and beer on them. 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer 

LET OUT ALL OF YOUR EXAM ANXIETIES! 
yt:5~
b~ 
Come skate with the Freshman Class at the JACC on Thursday, December 14 
10-11 :30pm 
only $1 .00 for skate rental 

offers an evening 
~BA 
Professional education for positions of leadership in the Jesuit tradition of excellence Now accepting applications for Spring Quarter For information, call312-915-6120 
Water Tower Campus 820 North Michigan Avenue Chicago, Illinois 60611 Loyola Is an equal opportunity employer I educator 

Wednesday, December 13, 1989 The Observer 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Wednesday ACROSS 25 Doth pronounce 45 Greenbacks: Abbr.
12:10 p.m. Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, 21 Contagious
1 He played Davy 46 Kin of a
Holy Cross House. 
5 Mote 31 Third deadly sin clambake 
7:30p.m. Women's basketball vs. Michigan State, JACC. 
10 Paper measure 32 "R.U.R." creator 49 Memento 14Cafeau­
33 A Stooge 53 Weather vanes 15 Yukon mountain 
34 Eye part 55 Spoken 
16 Singer 

MENUS 35 Aspired 56 Raison d'­
Fitzgerald 36 Tennis-ball 
17 D.C. Cabinet 57 Perch 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's movement
post 58 Rat on 18 Pater, Pitt and 37 Pop 
59 Singer Diana 
Cajun Chicken Breast Beef & Bean Tostada Pope 
38 Stags 

60 Hogan's cousin
Ham & Broccoli Rolls Spinach Crepes 20 Steins 
Rotellini Chicken Paprika 22 Vitreous 40 Components Red Baron 
Knockwurst Deli Bar 23 Escutcheon's stain 
42 They may be blind

24 Wilbur's "Things DOWN of---World" 44 Tout's concern 1 Goof 2 Slacken 3 Juxtaposed 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
4 Hollywood hopefuls 
More people 
have survived 
5 Caine-Oiivier film
cancer than 
6 Character in 
now live in 
"Turandot" 7 Roe 19 Smooth-talking 32 Indianapolis 47 Long-division
the City of 
8 Ore. neighbor 21 Bon-team word 
48 Naval leaders: 
Los Angeles. 
9 Made eligible for (witticism) 35 Vehicle easily Abbr.
the Order of the 24 Nixon's problem pushed 49 SurgeonWe are winning. 

Garter 25 Playground ride 36 Unloads General who 26 Of the ears 38Armydoc retired in 1989 27 Promontories 
I 
50 Gaelic 28 Concert bigwig 51 Welles role 41 Funds 
42 "-Fideles"

AMERICAN 29 Cacophonous 52 They obey an 
30 Chaps with Exalted Ruler 
lSOCIETY" 
called class 46 Wharf 54 "Little piggy" 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


Want to get involved in SUB?? Join the SUB 
Performln' ftrts or Campus lntertalnment Commissions 
Call the SUB Office at 239-7757 if you're interested. 
ODA Y is the LAST DAY to turn in your 
_. ~~ 








STUDENT UNION 8Q\JU) 
to the SUB Office 
Sports
page 16 Wednesday, December 13, 1989 
Spartans last ND test before nine-day break 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 

Bnforn taking a nine-day brnak for smnester exams, thn injury-plagued Notre Dame women's basketball team hosts Michigan State at 7:30 Thursday night in the Joyce ACC. 
The Irish (4-1) alrnady are playing with just a nine-player roster because of kmw injuries that have Armin Schwartz and Dionrw Smith out for the sea­son. Of the "lwalthy" playnrs, guard Kanm Hobinson contin­ues to be botherPd by an ankle injury, Krissi Davis is listed as probabiP for tonight's game after spraining her baek against Marquette last wnekend and Comalita Ilaysbert and Sara I.inbschnr have come up with eases of the flu. 
All four of those players are normally starters. 
Irish coaeh MufTet McGraw also is concerned with the way practices have gone this week, with the players already pres­sured with end-of-semester deadlines and exams. 
"It's been pretty weak," MeGraw said of the recent praetiees. "It's that time of the year, where students are think­ing about finals. We just need to get our intensity for this game tonight, just play the game and then worry about fi­nals." 
Miehigan State should pro­vide enough cause for concern. The Spartans have played bet­ter than their 3-2 record would indicate, as one of the losses eame on a 73-63 decision to Stanford. The Cardinal cur­rently is among the nation's top 10 teams. 

The Spartans also lost 72-69 to Kentucky. Michigan State de­feated Temple 72-66, topped Cincinnati 63-50 and topped Central Michigan 71-60. 
"They're very athletic," said McGraw. "They rebound well and play very good defense. Individually. they are better than we are player-for-player. As a team. I'm not sure." 
Michigan State's top player is guard Eileen Shea. The 5-8 ju­nior is the Spartan's leading scorer with 17.2 points per game and also averages 5 re­bounds and 2.6 assists. 
"She's a good three-point shooter and just a good perimeter player," said MeGraw. 
Guard Marie Williams, a 5-8 sophomore, may be Michigan State's most complete player. She averages 10 points, 6.4 re­bounds and 5.2 assists per game. 
Center Sheronda Mayo (5.8 points, 7.4 rebounds) and for­wards Cherie Swarthout (9.4, 
4.2) and Taraisa Wills (6.8, 
2.8) round out the Spartans' 
starting five. Hobinson leads Notre Dame 
The Observer IPat Kusek

with 14.8 points per game, 
Notre Dame's Sara Liebscher drives on a Marquette defender during 
while center Margaret Nowlin 
Saturday's Irish win. Notre Dame will host Michigan State tonight. 
is in double figures both in 
points and rebounds. Nowlin's 
10.2 rebounding average lead assists and 2.8 rebounds per the Irish, while her 13.4 points contest. per game rank her second on Freshman guard Coquese the team. Washington has come off the 
llaysbert and Davis also are bench to dish off a team-lead­averaging more than 10 points ing 19 assists and 12 steals. per game. The two forwards Miehigan State leads the all­have respective scoring aver­time series with Notre Dame by ages of 13.2 and 10.2. a 3-2 eount. The Irish have won 
Liebscher, Notre Dame's their last two meetings with the other starter, has 8.6 points, 3 Spartans, winning 71-59 in the 
Statistics don't tell Guay's story 
Senior leader does the little things to help NO hockey 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Sports Writer 

For almost every goal that is scored in hockey them is some­body who makes a big check or digs the puck out of a crowd on the boards to set up the score. 
On the Notre Dame hockey team. more often than not se­nior winger Bruce Guay is the one who sets things up. Although he only has four goals and five assists on the season, Guay has contributed to the team in many other ways. 
"Scoring is a lot of fun," admits Guay, who hails from North Smithfield. Hhode Island, "but I also like to go into the corners, mix it up, and come out with the puek. 
"This year a lot of good goal scorers, like Sterling Black, Tim Kuehl and Dave Bankoske have come to the front, but I'm happy doing what I'm doing. I do what I can for a score, but I pride myself in baekchecking and keeping the other team from putting points on the board." 
In Guay's sophomore year, he had a chance to score quite a few goals himself. He played on a line centered by Irish great Mike McNeill and scored 23 goals and added 12 assists on a team whieh went went 27-4-2 in Hie Schafer's first season as Notre Dame hockey coach. 
"Playing with Mike McNeill was a great experience. It taught me a lot about the game. It was a really fun year, 
,,..'·,,.' "'~ "'·
''~ 
' ~.~, 

...' kk ~'-.,, .. -k·
~ 
-


BruceGuay 

as I played on a line with two seniors, we were winning and I was scoring some goals, too." 
But Guay fell prey to a deep thigh contusion late in the sea­son which caused him to miss the last six weeks of the sea­son. Guay says he never appre­ciated hockey so much as when he was hurt and unable to con­tribute to the team. After listening to Schafer talk about Guay, it's not hard to understand how much it would hurt him to be forced out of the lineup. 
"The word intense would de­scirbe Bruce Guay most accu­rately," Schafer said. "He really wants to do well in everything that he does. He will be a con­tributing member to this hockey team with or without scoring a lot of goals." 
Guay agrees with Schafer's assessment of him as an intense person. His intensity might have worked to a fault last season, when the team suffered through a losing season and Guay only scored 28 points in 34 games. 
"I've been brought up with a work ethic where I attack ev­erything with the utmost inten­sity. Last year was frustrating to me because I wanted to score more goals, but it just wasn't there. A losing season is difficult in any sport." 
Fortunately this past season hasn't been difficult for Guay or the Irish. Despite losing two games last weekend to Ferris State, Notre Dame has glided to an early 10-4 record in the first part of its season, and Guay has blossomed as a senior leader on the team. 
"The best way to lead is by example," says Guay. "If that means scoring goals, great, but if that means killing a penalty or making a check, I'm glad to do that too. I take pride in the defensive aspect of my game." 
Guay has managed to put the puck in the net a few times as well for the Irish this season. Against Ferris State he man­aged to tally one goal in each game, and even though Notre Dame was swept, Guay was pleased with his own play. 
''I've been saying it's going to come in buches when it comes. It really reassured my confi­dence in my ability to score. I know that if I get the opportu­nity and I'm in the right posi­tion I can put it away." 
see GUAY Ipage 14 
1984-85 season and 57-55 during the 1987-88 campaign. 
After taking on the Spartans, the Irish do not play again until Dec. 22, when they will host UCLA 
"The week off after this game will really help us heal. but we've got to win this one first," said McGraw. 

Lyght among trio vying for Thorpe honor 
OKLAHOMA CITY lAP) ­
Notre Damn's Todd Lyght, 
Arizona State's Nathan 
LaDuke, and Southern 
California's Mark Carrier were 
named Tuesday as finalists for 
the Jim Thorpe Award for col­
lege football's best defensive 
back. 
The award from Uw Jim 
Thorpe Athletic Club will be 
presented Jan. 15 at a banquPt 
in Oklahoma City. The finalists, 
all juniors, wern selected by a 
21-membnr committee. 
Lyght and Carrier arc All­
Americans. 
Lyght, a 6-1 eorn11rback, had 
47 tackles, night interceptions 
and one blocked punt for Notre 
Dame, whieh nwnts Colorado in 
the Orange Bowl on Jan. 1. 
Carrier, a (1-foot-l fn1e safety, had 97 tackles, rPcov­ered thrnn fumbles and intPr­cepted seven passes in 11 games for the Trojans, who meet Michigan in the Hose Bowl on Jan. 1. 
As a free safety, LaDuke had· 99 tackles, caused one fumble, recovered two fumbles and in­tercepted six passes for Arizona Statn. The 5-10 LaDuke also returned four punts for 27 yards and a kick­off for ,19 yards. 
Carrier, LaDuke and Lyght were selected as the finalists in dose voting, Lynne Draper, ex­ecutive director of the Jim Thorpe Athletic Club, said in a news release. 
Deion Sanders, now with the Atlanta Falcons, won the Jim Thorpe Award last year. 
Florida State Coach Bobby Bowden will be the speaker at the January banquet. 
Irish seek answers after lethargic start 
After leading Marquette to its first victory over Notre Dame since 1982, Warior forward Trevor Powell said he did not see anything particularly wrong with this Irish squad. 
"They seemed the same to me," said Powell, who exploited the Irish inside game for 25 points. "The improvement lies within us. We're Steve Megargee improved from a couple of years Associate Sports Editor ago." 

Sorry, Trevor. 

Though Marquette certainly has made great strides under new coach Kevin O'Neill, and is better than last year's 10-18 outfit, the Warriors still rank in a dass several notches below Louisville and Indiana. Lowly Loyola (Ill.) took Marquette into overtime last week. 
Four days later, Marquette defeated Notrn Damt~ by a dozen points. Tlw Irish had beaten the Warriors a dozPn times in a row before Saturday's contest. SomPthing defi­nitely is awry with this Irish club, losers of its last three games with 13th-ranked UCLA on the way. 
The Warriors gave the Irish a tough game in thP final week of the '88-'89 season, but the result was different. Notre Dame won that eontest 67-63 to clinch its spot in the NCAA tournament. 
"This game was similar to last year," said Irish guard and eo-captain Joe Fredrick. "Just last year, we pulled it off." 
Jamere Jackson made the gamewinning shot in last sea­son's win at the Bradley Center. On his return visit, the co­captain shot just 1-of-8 from the field. For the season. Jackson has eonnected on just 9-of-30 attempts, an ieP­cold 30 percent. 
Jackson, a 47 percent career shooter while at Notre Dame, averaged 13.5 points per game last season. Fredrick and Jackson's shooting are the keys to Notre Dame's perimeter game. 
"When Fred and I got going last season, it got the other guys juiced up," said Jackson. "I'm just not playing well 
see SLUMP Ipage 12 









