----------·--------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------------· 

VOL. XXIII NO. 20 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Dual careers subject of foreign service talk 
By PETER LOFTUS 
Staff Reporter 
In a joint lecture Thursday entitled "Making the Dual Ca­reer Family Work: Perspectives from the Foreign Service," married foreign service officers David and Marjorie Ransom addressed such topics as the 
• Ransoms speak about foreign service I page 7 
struggle of an American family in a foreign nation, the role of women in the foreign service, and the improvement of inter­national relations over the past forty years. 
The Hansoms have been in foreign service for over twenty years. Mr. Ransom, director of the U.S. State Department's Of­lice of Arabian Peninsula Af­fairs, has been in the foreign service since 1965, spending most of that time in embassies of Middle East countries. 
Mrs. Ransom, executive assis­tant to the counselor for the 
U.S. Information Agency, has also been in the foreign service for over twenty years in the same stations as her husband. Both speak fluent Arabic. 
A major point of the lecture was the situations that the Ransoms had to deal with in the Middle East. The couple often had to entertain diplo­mats from the Arabic nations. 
"It was always a challenge," Mrs. Ransom said, "to figure out what you could do to cross the cultural barriers." 
The couple also had to raise three daughters while in the Middle East. Mrs. Ransom said that the children had difficult 
see RANSOM I page 7 

The Observer/Suzy Hernandez 

SunsetSilhoutte 
The Church of Our Lady Loretto rises above the fall foliage and setting sun in this photograph taken from atop McCandless Hall, Saint Mary's. 
ND dining halls cited for numerous health code violations 
By SARA MARLEY never received notice from (St. a greater potential dining halls were cited for one Dining Hall report stated, News Editor Joseph County Health Officer) "contribution to food-borne ill­five-point violation which "Rodent activity in food storageDr. Plain," said Director of ness," according to Plain. reads, "Toxic items properly area." 
The latest sanitation inspec­University Food Services The violations regarding the stored, labeled and used. Only "We dealt with that this tions done by the St. Joseph William Hickey. storage of toxic items and ro­necessary toxic items on hand." summer," McCauslin said. The County Health Department on "I don't think this report dent activity were also noted in A comment on the report University contracted with a North and South Dining Halls (from May) reflects adequately Carter's inspection of North made in North Dining Hall said, new pest control company. show a 20-point decline in on University Food Services. I Dining Hall on Oct. 13, 1988. "Properly store insecticides "With the students gone it scores over the last two years. think Mr. Hickey has come That inspection yielded a score (not with cleaning supplies)." was a golden opportunity to do 
The dining halls were in­great distances in the past few of 90. "That is a real technical area. a very intensive job, which will spected on May 2, 1989, by years," said Michael McCauslin, On April 15, 1988, North It is unfortunate that in South include follow-ups. If the prob­Emma Carter and Hex Emrick. environmental health and Dining Hall scored 99 with one Dining Hall and in North Dining lems continue, they can attack South Dining Hall scored 74 safety specialist and industrial violation. On Jan. 15, 1988, its Hall even with the remodeling again over winter break," said out of a possible 100 points hygienist with the University's score was 97 with three viola­there is a shortage of storage McCauslin, formerly a health and was cited for 15 violations Risk Management department. tions; 98 on July 22, 1987, with space. Both are technically department inspector in Michi­out of 44. North Dining Hall 'There weren't any violations one violation; 81 on April 29, chemicals, but they must be gan. scored 73 and with 16 viola­directly relating to the quality, 1987, with 11 violations and 90 kept separate from one an­"Especially in South Dining tions noted. wholesomeness or condition of on Jan. 20, 1987, with three vi­other," said McCauslin. Hall, the tunnels are a great Both dining halls were cited food," McCauslin said. olations. A four-point violation was breeding ground for rodents. for two major violations involv­The 2-hour inspections are In a 1988 inspection, South also noted on each of the re­It's the way the building was ing the storage of toxic items completed on standard inspec­Dining Hall scored 94 with four ports. This violation states, designed before there were uni­and rodent activity. tion forms. Each of the 44 vio­violations. On July 22, 1987, it "No evidence of insects or ro­form health codes for food "None of our facilities have lations carries a weight from scored 94 with four violations dents present and outer open­establishments." ever been put on any type of no­one to live which are then de­and on Jan. 12, 1987, 97 points ing adequately protected. No Structural planning problems tice. We do our own internal ducted from 100. with two violations. other animals present." sanitation checks. We have Violations weighted five have In the May inspection both A comment on the North see REPORT I page 5 
USAir pilot cannot explain crash 

Hurricane Hugo strikes South Carolina Thursday 
Associated Press winds were reported in 
Charleston. The roof cracked 
CHARLESTON, S.C.-at City Hall, a 188-year-old Hurricane Hugo struck brick building that has South Carolina with renewed withstood several hurri­fury Thursday after thou­canes, and torrents of water sands of coastal residents in poured into the paneled southeastern states grabbed council chamber. Phone and what they could carry and electric service to the com­fled inland on jammed high­mand post was knocked out. ways. No injuries were immedi­
"This is a disaster staring ately reported. us right in the eye," Mayor Hurricane-force winds Joseph P. Riley Jr. said from first hit the coast by 9:15 his City Hall command post p.m. EDT, and about three in Charleston, where the hours later the eye of the hurricane downed power and storm passed over the Isle of telephone lines, snapped Palms just east of trees and caused utility Charleston, said Bob Sheets, transformers to explode. director of the National 
"All we can do now is pray Hurricane Center in Coral and hope all the precautions Gables, Fla. we have taken have been The eye was about 10 miles sufficient," Riley said as across and top winds were Hugo's eye bore in on the still at 135 mph. Hugo was city. "I just hope and pray expected to turn gradually to we can get through this the north, causing severe without any loss of life." flooding as it moved up the 
By midnight, 119 mph East Coast. 
page 2 
WORLD BRIEFS 

Fearing for her life, Colombian Justice Minister Monica de Greiff resigned Thursday in Bogota, less than a month after sign­ing an extradition order that brought alleged drug money laun­derer Eduardo Martinez Romero to Atlanta to face U.S. charges. DeGreifT. who reportedly left her 3-year-old son in the United States because he was also threatened with death, held the pos­tion for less than three months. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 

Democratic leaders of Congress rained on President Bush's education summit parade Wednesday by announcing ambitious ­and probably costly -goals for America's schools.The Demoerats assembled at a showcase school in a Washington sub­urb to unveil six "National Goals for Educational Excellence," in­cluding lower dropout rates, fewer illiterates and early childhood education for all poor 4-year-olds by 1995 or earlier. They also proposed making more grants, instead of loans, to college stu­dents. 
Nineteen were killed, and 64 other students were injured when a truck driver ran a stop sign and collided with a school bus in Alton, Texas Thursday. The riders were literally trapped in their seats, as the bus plunged 40 feet into a water-filled pit. Although the driver claims his breaks failed, Coca-Cola officials said the truck passed a state inspection just last week. 
Relief for victims of Hurricane Hugo has ben established by The American Red Cross. A number for callers who wish to pledge money for Puerto Rican hurricane relief is: (800) 453-9000. Checks can be sent to the American Red Cross in Greater New York, P.O. Box 4691, Grand Central Station, New York, N.Y. 10164. In addition, the federal Interior Department has estab­lished a 24-hour telephone number for people seeking information about the situation in the Virgin Islands. The number is 202-343­6816. 
INDIANA BRIEFS 

Ball State University has declared a measles emergency after a case of the "old-fashioned" or 10 day disease was con­firmed Thursday. Officials at the Muncie campus hope to inoculte as many as 19,000 students, faculty and staff to prevent the spread of the highly-contagious disease, which had recently ap­peared in Lake and Porter counties and at Notre Dame. 
CAMPUS BRIEFS 

Kim Kolbert spun her way to $12,500 Thursday as a player on The Wheel of Fortune. The Notre Dame junior was an alternate for August's college week, but. appeared on the game show as a regular contestant. 
WEATHER 

Cooler 

Mostly cloudy today with a 30 percent chance of light rain. Highs in the middle 70s. Partly cloudy, windy and much colder tonight with a 30 percent chance of showers. Lows in the upper 40s. Cloudy, windy and unseasonably cold Sat­urday with a 40 percent chance of showers. Highs in the lower 50s. 
ALMANAC 
On September 2": 
e In 1776: Nathan Hale was hanged as a spy by the British during the Revolutionary War. e In 1862: President Abraham Lincoln issued the preliminary Emancipation proclamation. declaring that all salves held inside rebel states would be free as of Jan. 1, 1863. e In 1975: Sara Jane Moore fired a shot at President Gerald Ford outside a San Francisco hotel, but missed when a civil­ian bystander deflected the shot. e Ten Years Ago: In his final, full day as U.N. ambassador, Andrew Young briefed Presi­dent Jimmy Carter at the White House on a just-completed trade mission that had taken Young to ten African nations. 
MARKET UPDATE 


S&P 500 f 1.7o to 354.0 Currency exchange 

Mark  f  .09 to 51.40 $/OM  
Yen  f  .28 to 68.59 $1¥  
Pound f  .0035 to 1.57 $/£  

Precious Metals Gold "ft $3.20 to $373.00 I oz. Silveri' 6.0¢ to $5.2750 I oz. 
Source: Prudential Bache Securities 
Information comp1led from Observer w.res and Observer staff reports 

-----------------------------------------------~ --~ ~---------­
Friday, September 22, 1989
The Observer 

Campus attacks can lead to racial paranoia 
Last weekend, a group of us were walking across campus around 2 a.m. I expressed my relief that I wasn't walking home alone in light of all the recent attacks on campus. 
"You're right," someone replied, "You wouldn't want some group of black guys to at­tack you." It wasn't the first time I heard some­one say that in reference to our recent crime wave. 
As the number of assaults reported on and off campus increases, a lot of students are dwelling on the race of the attackers. No one refers to these assailants as "crazy kids," "perverts," or even "townies"-the definition of choice seems to be limited to one race of people. 

This is problematic because the people who think this way are forgetting one important point: we're all in this together, no matter what the color of our skin. Right now, we're in an "us against them" situation. The way we should think about this situation is predator against victim, not black against white. 
By now some of you are thinking, "But the guys who attacked our students were black." In some instances this was the case, but a couple of weeks ago it was reported that a white jogger came up to several Notre Dame women and also acted suspiciously. You see, there is no "standard" type of weirdo; they come in all shapes, sizes, and colors. 
Last semester I took a criminology course, and I found out that most crimes committed against whites were by whites and most crimes committed against blacks were by blacks. Un­fortunately, there are those of us who see our present situation as black on white, with no gray area in between. 
I don't think it's wrong to report the descrip­tion of the attackers; if there is a rapist out there I would certainly like to know what he looks like. But if we only concentrate on the color of the attacker's skin, we'll only end up alienating our fellow students instead of band­ing together to get these creeps-black or white-away from our campus. 
If we keep telling each other to watch out for "black guys" we're including a lot of innocent 
OF INTEREST 
Housing NOW March on Washington Oct. 7. Today is the last day to reserve your seat on the bus leaving Friday afternoon Oct. 6 and returning Sunday morning Oct. 8. Call 282-8700 for reservations and details. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will hold an open rehearsal at Crowley Hall on Friday from 
4:45 to 6 p.m. Guests are always welcome at daily rehearsals. 
Holy Cross Chile Volunteers Lou Nanni '84 will be at the Center for Social Concerns at 10 a.m. Sunday, Sept. 24 answering questions about his 2 1/2 years with the Holy Cross associates program in Santiago, Chile. 
The Alumni-Senior Club would like to apologize for a necessary policy change. Due to additional financial constraints, we must charge everyone cover who does not have an Alumni Senior Club membership card on their person. This includes students, alumni, and guests. 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur­chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
'The way we should think about this situation is predator against victim, not black against white.' 
Robyn Simmons Assistant Accent Editor 


people in that description. Everyone will be so busy looking out for black males that they won't know what hit them if that white jogger comes around again. It's wrong for us to blame a whole race of people for what some trouble­makers are doing, and that's what we are doing if we assume that every criminal is black. 
What scares me most about the situation on campus is not the color of the attackers, it's the fact that there have been so many attacks. It seems as if the Administration was able to mo­
bilize quickly to avert a measles epidemic, but I 
don't think the same can be said about their 
handling of the series of assaults on Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
Frankly, I'm sick and tired of worrying about walking across the quad at night and it's up to the Administration to take measures to make this campus safer for all of us. And it's up to us to stop letting ignorance and prejudice color our perceptions of the current situation. 
The real issue here is not who's out to get whom; what we have to concern ourselves with is beefing up security and trying to get better lighting in dark parking lots and pathways. You don't have to be white to have a stake in added security, and I'm pretty sure that those teenagers on bikes would attack black women just as soon as they would attack white women. 
We all need to work together to get these punks away from our campus. Race is not the question. It's a question of who will win out: the attackers or the victims. Let's not add the mi­norities on campus to our list of victims. 
The Michigan State Pep Rally will be tonight at 7 p.m. in the .JACC, North Dome. Enter Gate 3. 
Free Face Paint at the South Quad flag pole from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. sponsored by Irish Insanity. Wear Blue to the game. 
A French Mass will be said by Fr. Patrick Gaffney this Sunday at 4 p.m. in the Log Chapel. It is sponsored by Le Cercle Fran~ais. Call Bridget at 283-2595 for more information. 
Center for Social Concerns' drivers for student and social groups are reminded that the final training class of the year will be held Sunday at 7 p.m. at the CSC. This class is mandatory for all drivers of esc vehicles. 
Juggling Club will hold a second organiza­
tional  meeting Sunday  at  2  p.m.  on  the  
Fieldhouse  Mall.  For  more  information  call  
Shawn at 283-4561.  

Design Editor....................Joe Zadrozny Design Assltant ............... Cristina Ortiz Typesetters ....................... Chris Zaback 
..................................................... Fritz Valsaint Assistant News Edltor..Kelley Tuthill News Copy Edltor............ Monica Yant Sports Copy Editor Steve Magargee VIewpoint Editor........ Christine Walsh VIewpoint Copy EditorJanice O'Leary Accent Edltor.............. Robyn Simmons Accent Copy Editor ............... Liz Havel Accent Designer ............Brian Grunert Typlsts ........................................Will lamer Photographer........ Endrew McClosky Ads Designers...... . ......... Val Poletto ................................................. Meg Callahan 
........................................Kathleen O'Connor .......................................................Amy Eckert ....................................................Anita Covelli Irish Extra Editor.......... .Theresa Kelly 


Friday, September 22, 1989 The Observer page 3 
ND fans to park on White Field
Apple Computer, Inc. to 
underwrite design project 
By GREG LUCAS Senior Staff Reporter 
Apple Computer, Inc. is helping to underwrite a de­sign project at Notre Dame in order to increase aware­ness of Macintosh capabili­ties on campus. 
John Sherman, assistant professor of design, is over• seeing the project. He said a ten student group, called Design Alliance, is currently launching an advertising campaign designed to draw attention to a Macintosh awareness event that is slated to take place on November 15. 

He said that the event itself is stHl being planned, but may include the giveaway of a Macintosh SE, which Apple donated for the event. 
The eventon November 15 will be akin to a "computer expo," which will give stu­dents an opportunity to be-
Aaa~ HDiard Legal AMlstaat 

Litigation • Real Estate Corporations • General Practice Estates, Trusts & Wllls Employee Benefit Plans 
• 
Largest A.B.A.-approved program in Illinois 

• 
Effective employement assistance 

• 
Three-month day and six-month evening classes Loop, Arlington Heights, Oak Brook and Olympia Fields locations 

• 
Student loans for qualified appli­cants 

• 
Fall term begins in September and October 

• 
On campus: October 4 


For a brochure and your invatation to an information session, write or call: 
Rooaevelt Univenity 
Name 
-Lawyer'• A..t.tant 
P!Ogram 
Addteu 
~ 
430 S. Michigan Avenue 
• Oticogo, II. 6060$ 312-341-3882 City 
State 
Special to The Observer 
Football fans attending games at Notre Dame this fall will encounter several changes from past traffic and parking patterns due to the construc­tion of new academic facili­ties-in particular, the DeBartolo Quadrangle under development immediately west of the stadium. 
Construction of the new quad has eliminated some 800 park­ing spaces from the area desig­nated as Green Field, and re­placement parking space has been cleared in White Field North, located at the northeast corner Douglas and Juniper 
...~--·····~~.--· -~'•&•& 
22-POINT SAFETYI SERVICE INSPECTION 
+ WYNN'S POWER FLUSH 
Get Ready For Fall And Winter


$4995 
For Both Services 
~lb 

KILf'fLEA 
OLDS • NISSAN

}vA ~
2102 Llncolnway West, Mishawaka IN 46544

Ill 
-(219) 255-9644 
••&~••~&•••a~•••••~• 

Roads on the north edge of campus. 
Drivers eastbound on the Indiana Toll Road should follow the signs directing them to use Exit 72-South Bend West. Additional signs will direct these drivers from the toll plaza via the U.S. 31 Bypass to Cleveland Road, east on Cleveland to Juniper Road, then south on Juniper to the north parking lots adjacent to Juniper and Douglas Roads. 
Drivers westbound on the toll road should follow the signs di­recting them to use Exit-82 Mishawaka. Additional signs will direct these drivers via State Road 23 to Cleveland 
Kevin Brenan is 
21! 

Happy Birthday K.J. 
Love, Mom, Dad and Terry 
Road, west on Cleveland to Juniper Road, then south on Juniper to the north parking lots. 
Unless holding special park­ing passes, drivers leaving the toll road at Exit 77-South Bend/Notre Dame should follow 
U.S. 33 north to Cleveland Road, Cleveland east to Juniper, and Juniper south to the north parking lots. Local residents living north of campus also are encouraged to use the north parking lots. 
University, city, county and state police will be at key inter­sections surrounding campus to direct traffic to the nearest available parking areas. 
Earn $200.300 weekly. Travel tour operator needs four students immediately. 1-800-828-8955 

ROCCO'S HAIRSTYLING FOR MEN_& WOMEN 
a 
531 N. Michigan St. Phone 233-4957 

MON-THURS 11 :30AM-9:30PM FRI-SAT 11:30AM-10:30PM SUNDAY 11 :30AM-9PM SUNDAY BUFFET 11 :30AM-3PM 
*N.D. a 
~ 
Q. 
~ 
U.S. 20 E.
.;..+---......--t~ c.ri c.ri 
::i

293-0126 1308 S. Nappanee St. Elkhart, IN 46516 ~~ 
t 

!.,t::,! • ~~~~~ Szechwan Garden * 
~ 
Saturday. Oct. 14 
s·oopm 
Morr1s C1v1c A11rlltOn11m all seats reserved 
$16 50 
Tickets on sale 
NOW 
C1v1c Box Office. Nightwinds. Record Connect1on & usual outlets CHARGE 284-9190 

~---------------­
page 4 The Observer Friday, September 22, 1989 
Air Force Society held ceremony for POW's/MIA's 
By JESSICA ZIEMBROSKI 
News Staff 
In observance of National POW/Mit\ month, The Arnold t\ir Force Society of Notre Dame t\ir Force HOTC held a reception and retreat ceremony Thursday for 30 local former POW's and their families in re­membrance of the nation's prisoners of war and soldiers missing in action. 
t\rmy, Navy. and t\ir Force were all represented at the cer­emony in front of the Notre Dame Law School. t\ir Force Colonel Hobert Hobbins, com­mander of the 3330th Technical Training of Chanute t\ir Force Base, spoke in support of fami­lies with loved ones unac­counted for. lie also honored men and women of past service. 
Hecognizing the "sacrifices for our freedom by POW's/Mlt\'s, it is first priority 


NO to give additional aid to minorities 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame will provide an additional $150,000 a year for minority student aid from income gener­ated by its licensing program. 
University President Father Edward Malloy cited the move as another step in increasing the number of minority group members in the student body. The 1989 freshman class has a 16 percent minority representa­tion, the highest ever in University history and above the goal of 15 percent Notre Dame had set for 1991. 

Notre Dame implemented a licensing program in 1983, and there are now about 120 li­censees who pay royalties to the University for the right to use its name and symbols in connection with commercial products. 
JUST WHEN YOU NEED IT 
Tht" Navv has S:\0.000 or more to help vo~ finish vour last two 1·t·ars of mllege. 
Tht" Naval Rcst"n·e Offict"rs Training Corps (NROTC) Two­Yt"ar Scholarship Program can pay your ruition, lt"xtbooks and instructional fees, plus give vou a monthly SI00 1a.x-free allowance during your last 20 months of college. 
Upon gro~duation you'll be commissioned a Navy officer and enjoy l.he benefi15 and opponunities offered. such as ach~mced educ<1tion in all\' of lhe Navy·~ high-tech fields. . 
NROTC two-year scholarships arc highly competitive. Applications must be 1umed in t·arly in vour sophomore vear. For more information. see or call: 
LT Dan Cochran 
239-7274 

NAVY ROTC 
You areTomorrow. 
'U 
xou are the Navy. 
to usc whatever resources nec­essary to bring home our men and women," Hobbins said. 
In the speech, Hobbins re­ferred to statements by President George Bush and Secretary of Defense Hobert Cheney, saying that the cere­mony was "a tribute to foreign prisoners and to arouse com­mitment to those still missing . " 
Before and after the retiring of colors prayers were offered for the return of POW's! MIA's and for their families in con­tinued courage and determina­tion to the cause. 
Colonel Howard Hanson, commander of The Notre Dame Naval HOTC referred to the ceremony saying, "everyone can recognize that a significant number are not accounted for that could be and that people were known to be alive in Vietnam and Laos whose fami­lies still are waiting." 
~  SPECIAL PARKING  
iC  FOOTBALL  
~  HOME GAMES  
iC  
iC  ******************************  


~Parking is prohibited after 6 a.m. on Saturdays of~ 
~home football games without special football  iC  
iCParking pass in Lots C1, 01, qs, Stadium Yard,  ~  
~81 and E1. Student vehicles may be moved on  iC  
iCFridays to White Field, just north of the 002 Lot  ~  
iCon Juniper Road. Student Parking is prohibited  iC  
:on Green Field. Faculty and Staff may move to  ~  

ie802 or 816. Faculty and staff may remain in 801 it :west of Old Juniper Road until 2 1/2 hours prior t( iekickoff. Except as noted for 801, vehicles left in it :the above listed lots will be towed at owner's ~ ieexpense beginning at 6 a.m. If you have it ~questions, contact the Parking Office at it i(239-5053. .! 
'******************~­

ie 
~ ~ iC iC 






I 0 m!In's 
I &a..ll.l!
I 
I FAST, FREE
1 DELIVERY FROM 
1 
I 
1 
I I 
r--------------~-------------------~1
I oble ®Now Delivering to Notre Dame Campus!l 
Try our NEW Super Thin Pizza & Gourmet Cookies II 
Delivery Hours Mon-Sun 5:00-10:00 Dine In or Carry Out also available 
277-5300 
• I 
I 

Breadsticks * Handtossed Pizza* I 
Deep Dish Pizza* Super Thin Pizza* 1 Salads* Sandwiches* Beverages* 1 Fresh Baked Gourmet Cookies 1 
I I 


'-·----I ~-------r--------T---------1
I $4.00 OffZO" IDm.ner for 2 I $9.99 Pan pizza $6:99 Super Thin Pizza I I Hand-Tossed Pizza ~,l~~ccofasm:illD<:q>· DinnerSp~.. With 3 FREE TOPPINGSI S-4.00 offour 20" H.and-T~ R~---" Dish Sicilian or 12" fu.nd·Tosscd Round Includes a W-ge Dcq>·DLSh Socilian or Choose up to 3 t · f f I
~... 1,.,.,__ 8 .• . .... . oppmgs or reel 
Pi=l with three · or 10" Pan Brio• with one copping and "' ~ .... , no p!ZZ2 Wluo one toppmg hI ormon:toppmgs. _ _._ fB ds•'cks. andtwo<X<krsofBrCidsticks. w en you purchase a 14" Super 
one v.ud ro u Thin Cheese Pizza I 
Or6nb -lnc.1w<kd

I 0 
-----I
I :::.::·.::,:::-~bl ~..:.·=:; rw-o.'Noble. g:?.§,§-~'Noble.~:::.::......--:::::""' 1
I Olk,_...._ 0 e.. Dec. 30• 1989 'l(offia!lS 'l(oj)la!lS Oil<,_.,,._,. em(Noble . 
Dec. 30,1989 maru~ . I z z.. [ec. 30,1989 ~ Dec. 30,1989 omailS II ~ BS-B ss-e BS-D • • • • •c
----------------------·---------"
,_____________.. 
------~------~--~--------------------------------------~----~--------------.-----------------------~--~ 

Friday, September 22, 1989 
Decio to receive alumni award at halftime ceremony 
Special to The Observer 
Arthur Decio. chairman of the board and chief executive of Skyline Corporation, will receive the University of Notre Dame Alumni Association's John J. Cavanaugh C.S.C. Award September 22. 
Decio, who received an honorary doctor of laws degree from the University in 1975 and who sits on the University's board of trustees, attended DePaul University before going to work at Skyline and becom­ing its president in 1956. 
lie has received appoint­ments to several presidential commissions and servied on the boards of more than 35 civic, religious, educational, business and financial organizations. 
The Cavanaugh Award memorializes the University's 14th president and has since 1984 been given annually to a Notre Dame graduate for ex­traordinary public service. 
Its past recipients include 1953 alumnus John Gilligan, former governor of Ohio and now director of Notre Dame's Institute for International Peace Studies and 1950 alum­nus Congressman Romano Mazzoli of Kentucky. 
1----Expiration Date: 10-2-89---~ 1 1



21ortS)Je£1al 
I 
I 
I Bnng this when buying a large cup of Colombo frozen yogurt and get a second of equal or lesser value free. Coupon redeemable only at: Yes Its Yogurt 
I 
Indian Ridge Plaza 
Grape Road Mishawaka
L __L,~r~m~v~t~t~m~ N~e~e~h-._ _j 
I I FROZEN YOGURT I 
. 
The Observer 

Report 
continued from page 1 
in South Dining Hall were also the cause of another violation. 
Carter inspected the facility on Dec. 16, 1988, in amanda­tory response to a complaint. No score was given. 
"Major cleaning scheduled for Christmas break," was noted on the report. 

At that time Carter noted, "The upstairs prep room was generally normal soil, based upon capacity of food service. The downstairs prep area was found to be roach (dead and alive) infested, and daily clean­ing of equipment needed ... Food prepared under sewer lines. Manager stated immedi­ate corrective action would be taken." 
At the of the report, it was noted, "Recommend drop ceil­ings for downstairs prep area or relocate equipment because of waste lines." 
In the May 2 inspection done by Carter and Emrick, "Food prepared under sewage lines (downstairs prep room). To be corrected today," was again cited. 
''The concern is that a sewer line can break or leak and con­taminate food," McCauslin said. 
The waste-water lines run throughout the main floor of South Dining Hall "all over the place," according to McCauslin. 
McCauslin said attempting to locate the prep room away from any sewage line "would effectively eliminate the entire basement." 
Instead, the University pays special attention to the pipes. "We go way beyond what is 

QUEEN OF PEACE MINISTRIES 
MEDJUGORJE PRAYER MEETING . 
FATIMA RETREAT CENTER every SUNDAY EVE:NING! Medjugorje introductory session 7:00P.M. to 7:30P.M. Medjugorje Prayer Meeting ......... 7:30 P.M. to 9:00 P.M. 
"If I wasn't a Pope, I'd be in Medjugorje already!" 
-John Paul II 

:......;;;;;;;;iii;iii-­
THE NATIONAL BLACK MBA ASSOCIATION STUDENT MINI-CONFERENCE AND JOB FAIR FRIDAY, OCT. 6, THE PALMER HOUSE-CIDCAGO 
Mini-Conference From 9:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m., apanel ofbusiness and academic experts from across the country will review: 
•
Choosing the Right MBA Program 

•
The Transition From School to Work 

•
Career Opportunities in: Marketing, Finance, Technology and 


General Management Job Fair From 1:30-6 p.m., recruiters from over 150 Fortune 1000 companies will be on-hand to answer career questions. Participating firms include: Dean Witter, General Mills, AT&T, Federal Express, Coca Cola, Chrysler Motors, GTE, and more. 
Admission Aone-page, typed resume and current student I.D. Held in conjunction with the NBMBAA 1989 Conference & Exposition, October 4-8, Chicago. Student registration for the entire 5-day event is $175. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CONTACT: Marian Griffin 3121644-6610 
We invite all University Notre Dame Seniors to get to know our people and career opportunities 
Investment Banking Reception Monday, September 25 at 7:00p.m. Morris Inn Alumni Room 
WE DO BUSINESS 



Salomon Brothers
IN ONLY ONE PLACE. 
page 5 

j
required of us regarding the maintenance and inspection of 1 pipes," McCauslin said. 
McCauslin conducts his own 

l
semesterly inspections of the 

~ 
dining halls and an annual course for University Food Ser­vices supervisors and man­agers through the Educational Foundation of the National Restaurant Association. 
Regarding the unannounced sanitation inspections, required at least twice annually by state law, there is no "passing" score, Plain said. 
"A facility could have one treacherous thing, but score 95," he explained. 

"With scores of 84 and below we take a careful look. The su­pervisor brings it to my atten­tion," said Plain. 
"When an inspection comes in (from the county) with an ab­normally high amount of re­marks, the manager and assis­tant director of food services are called in," Hickey said. 

McCauslin stated that not only the number of violations but also the types are impor­tant to notice. 
"There were lots of one-point violations, such as walls or lighting needing repair," Mc­Causlin said. 
"The question you have to ask is, does that really affect the food we are serving? In fact, it has very little bearing," said McCauslin. 
"The first section, numbers one through ten are the most important. This is where the most serious things affecting food can occur." 
"For a facility that size, you're going to have a lot of lit­tle things that you are not go­ing to have in a smaller facil­ity," McCauslin said. 
According to Plain, Notre Dame consistently serves the highest number of meals at any facility in the county. . 
Offering possible explana­tions for the sudden drop at the Notre Dame facilities, Plain said, "A .manager may have been on vacation or the student help was ready to go home." 

"We come by different types of inspectors that can hit you more severely. It has a lot to do with the inspector," said Hickey. 
"Some demerits may be due to malfunctioning equipment for which the contractor has been called in," he continued. 
McCauslin said often when in­spectors come in teams it indi­cates that one is being trained, leading to a "much more thor­ough investigation." 
"The main thrust is to take care of the serious food-related items. Food protection, tem­perature requirements are the things that really effect the quality of food that is served to the students." 

"I am sympathetic with the health department. They have a job to do," McCauslin said. 
"On any day you could point out things that aren't exactly perfect, things that are slated for maintenance." 
"University Food Service is very, very good about taking care of problems as they come up," McCauslin said. 
"The record at the University speaks for itself. We go to great lengths to ensure a safe product for the students," said McCauslin. 




page 6 The Observer Friday, September 22, 1989 
·­



JOHN LASI 
This is your life ... 
Paid for by the "Save John's Pelt" Association: 
Chris Donnelly, Matt Gallagher, Sara Marley, Christine Walsh, Alison Cocks, Dave Bruner, Aristotle, Regis Coccia, Robyn Simmons, Mary Jo Fogarty, Stephanie Snyder, Flo Hoelker, Jeanne Blasi, Elvis, John Senior and Nancy Blasi, Maggie McCloskey, Darwin, Paige Smoron, Colleen Cronin, Kant, Julie Bruce, Angie Bellanca, Missy Irving, Plato, Jeanette Ryan, John O'Brien, John Dice, Keith Harring, Mark McLaughlin, Henri Matisse, Kelley Tuthill 
and Batman. 

--~----------------­
'I 

---~---~-----_.....____ 
Friday, September 22, 1989 
The Observer page 7 

Class 
continued from page 14 
NORM IS COMING, BUT WE DON'T CARE! 
BELL YGRAMS, BALLOONS, SINGING TELEGRAMS, 255-3355 
Nl 
NO COTION BLANKETS 
Now available at THE COUNTRY HARVESTER Basement of LaFortune 
New stock arriving daily. Extended hours for ND/MSU game -11 am-3:30pm. 
ICHTHUS Will meet this week 6:00-7:00 in the Library Lounge to make room for the pep rally. 
And from these ashes shall arise... A RABID BAT 
ZAHM FOOTBALL Will the tradition continue? 
Zahm vs Naugh-Sunday 2:00 
FREE MOVIES! Friday: 9:00 Stand By Me 
11 :30 Blazing Staddles 
Saturday: 9:00 Fletch 11 :30 Platoon 
In Dillon Hall Party Room Don't Miss Them! 
Deb, Thanks for a great year. You're the best! Love, Christopher 


Ransoms talk on foreign seiVice 
By JOHN ZALLER 
Staff Reporter 
The Middle East is changing and the United States is more involved in this change than most people are aware, David Ransom told a group of Notre Dame students and faculty Thursday. 
Ransom, Office Director for Arabian Peninsula Affairs, ana­lyzed a wide range of Arabian states, explaining the changes and U.S. involvement occurring in them. 
"The network of interest that ties the U.S. to Saudi Arabia is extraordinary. We deal with 


We are pleased to announce that the following recent graduates of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College have recently started a consulting career with our firm. 
ATLANTA OFFICE 
Melissa M. Houk 
BS·Mathematics 
Roberto A. Mandanas 
BA-Economics 
BOSTON OFFICE 
Andrew J. Sheehan 
as-Mechanical Engineering 
Michele L. Sima 
BS.flectrical Engineering 
CHICAGO OFFICE 
John M. Abele 
as-Mechanical Engineering 
Michael S. Arnold 
BS-Pre-Professionai!Computer Sequence 
Christopher R. Barker 
BA-Economics 
Rinold W. Burkhart 
BBA·Finance 
Terence H. Campbell 
BBA·Finance 
Anne M. Freitag 
BBA·Finance 
Steven F. Geary 
BBA-Finance 
Robert J. Herber 
BBA-Finance 
Kathleen M. Huston 
BA-Economics 
Edward A. Marcheselli 
BS-Aerospace Engineering 
Ronald L. Markezich 
BBA-Management!MIS 
Daniell. Masciopinto 
BA-Economics 
Maureen S. Nolan 
BS·Chemical Engineering 
Colleen A. O'Connor 
BBA-Management!MIS 
Daniel T. Perini 
BBA-Finance 
Colleen A. Ryan 
MBA-Finance 
Richard J. Stefan 
MBA-Business Administration 
Patrick T. Zelten 
BBA-Finance 
Robert G. Zick 
MBA-Finance 
CHICAGO WORLD HEADQUARTERS Information System Services 
Aileen M. Goodwine 
BA·Mathematics 
CHICAGO WORLD HEADQUARTERS Technical Services Organization 
Angela A. Aubry 
BA-Economics 
Christine V. Caponigri 
as-Mechanical Engineering 
Jill R. Gollon 
aS-Electrical Engineering 
Christopher E. Hasbrook 
BBA·Finance 
Michael P. Jennings 
BBA·Finance 
Lisa K. Jochum 
BS·Mathematics 
Lisa M. Kent 
BS-Eiectrical Engineering 
Christopher J. Kyhl 
as-Mechanical Engineering 
David R. Mitchell 
BS·Chemica/ Engineering 
Susanne E. Noonan 
MBA-Finance 
Karen M. Ruff 
BBA-Finance 
Joseph M. Rymsza 
BS-Eiectrical Engineering 


Michael J. Soenen 
BS-Eiectrical Engineering 
CLEVELAND OFFICE 
Bradley J. Alge 
BBA·Management!MIS 
CINCINNATI OFFICE 
Timothy G. O'Connor 
BS-Mathematics 
lisa M. Rosmarin 
BA·Mathematics 
COLUMBUS OFFICE 
Andrew E. Kraus 
BS-Eiectrical Engineering 
DENVER OFFICE 
John A. Shellenberger 
MBA-Finance 
HARTFORD OFFICE 
Daniel S. Webster 
BS.Efectrical Engineering 
MILWAUKEE OFFICE 
Timothy A. Clark 
BA-Economics 
Curt S. Detjen 
MBA-Finance 
Timothy P. Foley 
MBA-Finance/Accounting 
MINNEAPOLIS OFFICE 
Lisa M. Marz 
BA-Economics 
Joseph J. Westermeyer 
BS-Chemical Engineering 
NEW JERSEY OFFICE 
Jean M. Thomsen 
BA·Economics 
NEW ORLEANS OFFICE 
Paul J. Sylvester 
BS-Chemical Engineering 
NEW YORK OFFICE 
Joseph D. Bozzella 
BBA·Finance 
Noel D. Murtha 
BA·Government 
Steven G. Sanderson 
as-Mechanical Engineering 
PHILADELPHIA OFFICE 
John P. Conmy 
BBA-Finance 
PITTSBURGH OFFICE 
Heidi S. Mosier 
BBA·Finance 
Kevin M. O'Connell 
BBA-Management!MIS 
SAN FRANCISCO OFFICE 
James V. Gattea.u 
aS-Mathematics 
Matthew G. McGlynn 
BA-Psychology 
Dennis S. McSweeney 
MBA-Finance/Marketing 
John T. Oliver 
BBA·Management!MIS 
Michael T. Shimota 
BBA·Finance 
SEATTLE OFFICE 
Geoffrey D. Kohles 
BA-Economics 
STAMFORD OFFICE 
Robert E. Moore 
MBA-Finance/Marketing. 
ST. LOUIS OFFICE 
Brenda A. Morrissey 
BA-Economics 
WASHINGTON, D.C. OFFICE 
Richard C. Macchiaroli 
aS-Electrical Engineering 
Harry J. Shala 
as-Mechanical Engineering 
Campus Presentation September 27, 1989 Campus Interviews November 7, 1989 

Please contact your placement office for details. 
ANDERSEN CONSULTING 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO.,S.C. 
33 WEST MONROE STREET, CHICAGO, IL 60603 (312) 580-0033 
University Club 7:oo-9:00 p.m. Placement Office 8:30.5:00 p.m. 
them 100 times a day in as 
many areas," said Ransom. Ac­
cording to Ransom, the Saudis 
played a major role in the So­
viet withdrawal from Afgan­
istan. 
In the area o"r business, Ran­
som warned Saudi competition 
in the oil market may become 
fierce. The Arab nation wants 
to become more than simply 
exporters of crude oil; to as­
sure their footing in this area, 
the Saudis are buying many gas 
stations in the eastern U.S., he 
said. 
Moving further east, Ransom ·said he didn't see the United 
States returning to good rela­
tions with' Iran "any time 
soon." Calling Iran a "very di­
vided state," Ransom said Iran 
must do something to re-affirm 
its alliance with the United 
States, 
"We don't say release of the 
hostages is a condition, but it is 
almost a condition," said Ran­
som of the United States' once 
dearest ally in the Middle East 
possibly rejoining its alliance. 
. The Soviet Union is a major 
factor in the Arabian peninsula and, according to Ransom, is finally beginning to co-operate wlth the United States in the area. 
"It's a most amazing trans­formation," he said of the Sovi­ets' willingness to share infor­mation and help in negotiations in the Middle East. Ransom 
added that the Soviets will not be the threat they once were, but could become a great influ­ence for change in the region. 
The United States, he added, "will still be the big boy on the block." 
Noting this combining of powers and co-operation be­tween states, Ransom cau­tiously added, "I think we can hope for a more stable area for the next 15 to 20 years. It will be better." 


Ransom 
continued from page 1 
times, but felt that life in a for­
eign land was an experience 
they wouldn't trade for any­
thing. 
To make sure that the family 
stayed together, Mr. Ransom 
said that they often took vaca­
tions and had designated days 
of the week to spend time to­
gether. 
Although in many cases a 
dual-career situation can be a 
strain on a marriage, the Ran­
soms felt that their common in­
terest in foreign service was a 
"source of strenth" in their 
marriage. Mrs. Ransom said it 
was fortunate they both had 
"portable careers" and were 
able to concentrate on their ca­
reers while at the same time 
raise a family. 
The role of women in the for­
eign service has, according to 
Mrs. Ransom, improved over 
the past fifteen years, but there 
is still much room for im­
provement. Although the per­
centage of women has in­
creased, the number of women 
in the higher levels of the ser­
vice has not grown signifi­
cantly. 
An example of the discrimi­nation against women in the service is the now-repealed rule which didn't allow married women to be foreign service officers, although men could marry. This sUpulation forced Mrs. Ransom to resign when she married Mr. Ransom, but she was asked back a few years later after the rule was dropped. 
Mr. Ransom placed a heavy emphasis on the improvement of internatimi.al relations over the past forty years. He at­tributed this to the fact that the 
U.S. now has embassies in 144 countries and relations with 157 nations. He said that the threat of the Soviet Union and communism that Americans felt forty years ago has now been reduced. 
Mr. Ransom also addressed the issue of how foreign policy is affected by Congress and other branches of the govern­ment. 
"The government," Mr. Ran­som said, "is like a huge air­craft carrier. It takes a long time to turn it around." He em­phasized that any attempt to drastically affect foreign policy is an exhausting process, and that the President has the final say in matters. 
He also pointed out that, in light of recent developments in the nations of Eastern Europe, there will be a need to change foreign policy in the coming decade. 
-------------=------------------------------------------------' 
page 8 
Apple 
continued from page 3 
come acquainted with the Macintosh through hands-on use, said Brian Daugherty, eon­troller of the group. 
The Notre Dame group will make a presentation to judges from Apple and rnlated compa­nies in Chicago in December. The judges will determine at this presentation which of eight colleges did the best job in promoting and planning the Macintosh awareness event, Sherman said. 
Notre Dame will be compet­ing against Ohio State Univer­sity, University of Wisconsin, University of Kansas, Kansas State, Kent State, University of Nebraska, and St. Thomas, ac­cording to Daugherty. 
The winning school will re­ceive a Macintosh Lab. How­ever, Apple has not defined what exactly is entailed in that award, said Sherman. 
Apple donated a Macintosh II ex and $2000 to be used for an 
~~ 


~~~~~ 

~~ ~~ 
advertising campaign and the actual planning of the event, Sherman said. The advertising campaign will include posters and radio slots, said Daugh­erty. 
Apple will "se11 the project as successful if more people see the Macintosh as a useful tool," Sherman said. 
Design Alliance is working with Apple in the way that an advertising firm might in peti­tioning them for their Pbusi­ness. "The experience is making real world experiences happen in the classroom," Sherman said. 
Aeeording to Daugherty. De­sign Allianee, whrch eonsists of nine design majors and one business major, has already surveyed about 200 people on eampus to get a general feel of computer awareness. 
"I wouldn't say that seniors knew more about the Mae than freshmen," Daugherty said, adding that eomputer prefer­enees seemed to be related most closely to majors and the intended usage. 
ND-SMC STUDENTS 
•• 17th Annual Program 





t!ndon 
May 23-June 27 
Travel in Ireland, 
Scotland, and France 
Rome June 17 -July 16 Travel in France, Germany, and Switzerland 
Courses offered in 810, ART, BUSINESS IN ECONOMICS, HISTORY, ITALIAN, SOCIOLOGY 
MEETING Monday Oct. 16 Carroll Hall, SMC 
**Past student and faculty participants will be present For information call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 

TONIGHT 7:30 , 9:45 

The Observer 
Crash 
continued from page 1 

eoekpit voiee reeorders were analyzed Thursday by the Na­tional Transportation Safety Board, but provided no imme­diate elues on the eause of the 
erash,  said  NTSB  Chairman  
James Kolstad said.  
"There  were  no  noises  or  

voiees that suggested there was any problem with the takeoff or why the takeoff was aborted," Kolstand said at an evening news conferenee at Kennedy Airport. 
The flight data box reeording indieated that the plane swerved slightly instead of moving straight down the run­way and showed some "deviations" in rudder move­ment, Kolstad said, but investi­gators did not immediately un­derstand what effeet that might have had on the takeoff. 
Meanwhile, the New York Times in its Friday editions said law enforeement offidals were eheeking reports that the eo-pilot told Port Authority po­liee shortly after the crash that the pilot had been "mumbling" 
and "aeting irrationally" just before takeoff. 
However, Port Authority spokesman John Hughes said PA poliee had no interviews with the erew after the erash. Commenting on the Times re­port, Hughes said, "I have heard nothing about that. 
The paper, quoting unidenti­fied airline industry offieials, said the pilot and eo-pilot had little experienee aboard 737s. The pilot had flown the planes for only two months and the eo-pilot was said to have been in a 737 eoekpit erew for the first time, the newspaper said. 
A tape-recorded message an­
swered USAir's publie relations offiee telephone and referred all questions to the NTSB. 
A spokeswoman for the Na­tional Transportation Safety Board, Hache! Halterman, said the NTSB had """:j direet knowledge" of the Times re­port. 
NOTRE DAME 
Friday, September 22, 1989 
Correction 
In the Wednesday, Sept. 20 edition of The Observer, a story ran on the University's new telephone registration system. Freshmen will not bo registering for elassos using the DAHT system; they will register through tho Frosh­man Year of Studios as in the past. Students will re­eeive the vidoo demonstra­tion sehodule from the de­partnwnt of their fiold of study, not in the mail. 
Also, in the editorial of Thursday, Sopt. 21, The Ob­server incorrectly stated no rapos were reported to Notro Damp, Security in the last deeado. In 19R5, a Saint Mary's student reported she was raped on Saint Mary's Hoad. 

Wallpaper and Team Border IN STOCK 
5776 Grape Road -Mishawaka Across from Phar-Mor INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 221-9325 





Wallpaper, tD g 
WHERE BEAUTIFUL ROOMS BEGIN 


YOUR FOOTBALL TICKET FOR SATURDAY'S GAME IS NOT JUST FOR SATURDAY ANYMORE! 
Come see the Irish soccer team play Michigan State on Friday night and get in FREE when you show your ticket for Saturday's Football game! 
N(Q)1TIR~JE TIJ).A\MIE 
'W~o 

MITCIHIITGAN §1rA1I1E 
FRIDAY EVENING 
women's game: 5:00pm men's game: 7:30pm 
MOOSE KRAUSE STADIUM behind the Joyce ACC 


...see the men's team seek to extend their unbeaten streak at Moose Krause Stadium 
This offer is also valid for Sunday's soccer games with a ticket stub from Saturday's football game. WOMEN vs. LOUISVILLE at lOam MEN vs. MARQUETTE at lpm 

-~--.------~-------­

Viewpoint
Friday, September 22, 1989 page 9 
-----------------------~--~----~-----­


P.0. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 

Exec. News Editor...... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............. Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor. . .... Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ........ Shannon Roach Sports Editor .................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ............ Alison Cocks Accent Editor........................... John Blasi Systems Manager .............. Mark Derwent Photo Editor .......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ................... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor.............. Christine Gill Controller ............................. Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob­jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 
Sanitation in dining halls must improve 
Recent sanitation inspections of both North and South Dining Halls by the St. Joseph's County Health Department showed a dramatic decline in the scores of both dining halls. In the past two years, University Food Services has received exemplary scores, averaging near 94 out of a perfect 100. However, inspections of both dining halls in May 1989 resulted in scores of 73 and 7 4 for North and South Dining halls respectively. 
These sub-par scores are clearly unacceptable. County health officer Dr. George Plain indicated that scores below 85 are cause for concern. Clearly, Notre Dame's scores are cause for concern. 
University Food Services serves the most meals-per­
day of any establishment in the county, Plain said. The 
risk of food-borne disease, which is what the inspec­
tions measure, poses serious threat in an institution 
which feeds thousands of students daily. 
It is unacceptable for our Food Services to receive 
poor scores on health inspections. Considering the 
amount of money available to the University to rectify 
serious problems, health problems such as rodent and 
insect control. and improper storage of cleaning sup­
plies should not be present. 
Furthermore, the explanations offered by University 
Food Services Director William Hickey are not ade­
quate. Hickey chose to blame the inspectors and equip­
ment, or pointed to Notre Dame's fine record in the 
past. 
The problems indicated in the inspections, however, 
do not suggest that it merely is a matter of tough in­
spections. Inadequate protection of food, rodent and 
insect activity, preparing food under sewage lines, and 
toxic items improperly stored cannot be explained away 
by tough inspectors. 
In fact, the only plausible explanations were offered 
by Plain, who pointed to the possibility of Food Services 
being shorthanded due to the ongoing exams. 
It is true that Food Services has an outstanding his­
tory of high scores; it is precisely this that makes the 
recent low scores troubling. 
DOONESBURY 
UM... H/3l.UJ YeAH, HONt'l. OUT THeR£; ~ JU:iT POINT IS THeRE ANY­7V 7Ht Pf<IZ& THING 5P£30A~ AREAS. YOU'CJUI<&M£3. 
TOIXJ? ~ 
\ 
'l-22. 
THE: OT1ItR.S SE!NT L1C TO 
R.E:Q.TJE:ST TFAT YO\J Pt:OPL£ 
CL£A N "uP rl1IS SLoP-l!OLt 
'fl-US IS 0\J:R. Bo.t18 rp oo> . 
YA KNOW~·;;,.,'~.,.,.,~~B 
COOL strives to raise global awareness 
What is this COOL thing? Well, lend me an ear. 
Have you ever felt depressed about the current state of the world? Are you concerned about the homeless, the op­pressed, the persecuted? Has it ever crossed your mind that the way things are going, with all these wars, with our reckless­ness about the environment, our forgetfulness of others' needs, with the crime in the streets increasing at every in­stant, terrorism in every corner of the globe, etc., etc., our world is becoming ah uninhab­itable place? Have you every felt a pang of pain, even a faint whisp of despair? 
Well, COOL is an idea: it is the idea of doing something about that. It is more than that too: it is the idea of young people get­ting together to do something about it; and to do something about it now. 
Can you imagine how much we could do if all students 


LETTERS 
Spirit at Notre Dame requires hospitality and class 
Dear Editor: 
This Saturday, Sept. 23, Notre Dame opens at home for our 1 02nd year of intercolle­giate football. Notre Dame's tradition has truly been a key to what is certainly an Ameri-. can sports phenomenon. 
Those of us who are so privi­leged as to participate in the .1989 season as members of the Notre Dame community are reminded of the tremendous lfl­gacy of spirit and hospitality passed on to us by generations past. To proclaim that "We are NO" carries with it a multitude of responsibilities. 
Spirit at Notre Dame is a given. Our support of the team this season requires all of us to be caught up "in the spirit." 
'The most loyal support a coach can have-support he should cherish and hold-should come from the student body . ' 
Knute Rockne 
1888-1931 

Victor J. Krebs 
Metanoia 
around the world got together to share their concerns, to pool their energies, to channel their efforts in helping solve our global problems? We could change the world. Now that is COOL. 
COOL stands for the Campus Outreach Opportunity League. It is a group of young people (mostly recent college gradu­ates) getting together to orga­nize students on campuses all over the country to do some­thing together about global problems. Its goal is to make our college experience real by making community involvement an integral part of university life. 
COOL is holding a regional meeting at Notre Dame. Its goal is to get people together that realize the importance of 
Spirit at Notre Dame also en­tails hospitality. It is a part of life here that we treat those vis­iting us . as welcomed guests. Without compromising our standards, we encourage our visitors to share in the Notre Dame spirit. 
Spirit at Notre Dame entails class. In athletics, class is rooted in sportsmanship and hospitality. 
In accepting responsibility for the legacy. of the Notre Dame spirit, we all need to be mindful of the following: 
1. 
Going on the field can be dangerous and counter-produc­tive to the team. People can be injured and the team penalized. 

2. 
If we choose to abuse al­cohol, we run the risk of seri-


GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
community action, to share ideas and to gain a better per­spective on the kinds of already existing programs they can draw resources from, as indi­
viduals, or as leaders of orga­nizations. 
If you think that there are problems in the world that need resolving, if you want to do something about it, if you can believe in the power of an idea, and if you think the COOL idea is a good one, come on over. COOL people from many differ­ent campuses will be at Notre Dame talking about what to do, and how to do it. Even if only for a moment, stop by and hear what people have got to say. 
The COOL North meeting will be held on Oct. 6-8 at the Center for Social Concerns. For more information, call 239-5319. 
Victor J. Krebs is Assistant Rector in Grace Hall, a philoso­phy graduate student, and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
ous harm to ourselves and others. Let us all abide by the law and policies governing the use of alcohol at Notre Dame. 
3. The team needs our sup­port. In giving our best, let us refrain from activities in the stands that are disruptive, could cause injury to others, or that could impede the progress of the game. 
Please join with me in giving your best effort to support the 1989 Fighting Irish team. Let us do so while continuing the Notre Dame legacy of class, hospitality, and good will. 
Go Irish! 
Father David Tyson Vice President for Student Affairs Sept. 18, 1989 


.,.---,-~~~-~---.-------­



camJ?US &
in town fri.
MOVIES 
"Stripes" Engineering Auditorium, at 8 and 
10:15 p.m. "Eight Men Out" 
Annenberg, 7, 9:45 p.m. 
MUSIC 
McCormick's Coney Island An Evening of music with Calcutta Rain, 10 p.m. Center Street Blues Supper Club Harvey Stauffer and the New Rhythm Kings 9:30p.m. 
sat.
MUSIC 
Center Street Blues Supper Club Harvey Stauffer and the New Rhythm Kings 9:30 p.m. 


sun.
MUSIC 
Ruben Gonzales & Carolyn Plummer Violin Recital, Annenberg Auditorium 2 p.m. 
Faculty Concert honoring Sister 
Rita Claire Lyons Saint Mary's Moreau Hall Little Theater 3 p.m. 


local •
movies 
University Park East 
Sex, Lies, and' Videotape Millenium Turner and Hooch Lethal Weapon 2 Dead Poets Society Uncle Buck 
University Park West 
When Harry Met Sally Kickboxer The Package 
100 Center 
Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade Star Trek 5 Ghostbusters 2 

The legacy of World War II 
COLLEEN CRONIN ROBYN SIMMONS assistant accent editors 
Fifty years ago this month, the world was plunged into World War II-and we haven't been the same since. 

THE 50th ANNIVERSARY 
The immediate aftereffects of the war led to the Baby Boom in this country. and a cold war abroad that is only now begin­ning to thaw out. The bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki brought us into the nuelear age, leaving us with the respon­sibility to settle our differences without destroying the world. 
The wartime need for civilian workers also had a lasting im­pact on our nation. Women were brought out of their homes to work in the factories, and Rosie the Riveter became the symbol of the American working woman during the war. 
During World War II, the media and our government stressed that everybody should do their part at home and abroad to help win the war. Civilians rationed food, major manufacturers shifted almost all of their production toward planes, tanks and ammunition, and everyone was encouraged to buy war bonds. 
Maybe the reason why Ameri­cans were able to be so enthu­siastic and patriotic is because we were miles away from the ravages of war. A total of 50 million people died in World War II -a majority of them in the European theater. Six mil­lion of them died in the concen­tration camps as part of Hitler's "Final solution to the Jewish problem." When the world found out about the atrocities at camps such as Auschwitz and Buchenwald, Hitler's dream became Ger­many's shame, and the burden of guilt haunts the German people to this day. 
Across the ocean. Notre Dame along with the rest of the eountry, went through many changes, as we tried to show you this week. But the changes here were more superfieial: un­derneath the University was still the same -the changes 
had not left her unrecognizable. desirable features will undoubt­
Back then, football was still a very important part of life at ND, though the major rivalry was with Army, not Miami just yet. Even though a war was be­ing waged, football season went on. In 1941, we were one game from a perfeet season. lnterhall sports seemed to have been as eompetitive as they are now, though with less dorms, and many a pick-up game was played out on the quad. 
The social life did not. suffer in any way, either. Class dam~es, proms, and cotillions were held "war or no war", and ND men still took out Saint Mary's women. 
Student life remained un­changed as well. Studies came first, with an occasional break in the Huddle (which suppos­edly used to serve the best hamburger ever). Another pop­ular item at the Huddle was ci­garettes-back then, smoking was the "in" thing for young men, and there were ads for Chesterfield cigarettes in every issue of the Scholastic. 
Then, as now, Domers com­plained about the dining hall food, but they were told to grin and bear it "for the duration." According to the August 14, 1942 issue of the Scholastic, it was the students' duty as U.S. citizens to put up with inconve­niences brought on by the war, "As the war goes on, many un­edly arise, but students must 
remember that they are living 
in a trying period of war." 
This is not to say the students were unaware or apathetic. They served their time when it came. But until then, thern was no reason to worry unduly. Life must go on as usual, and those who were here instead of "over there" could certainly consider thnmselves lucky. 
When we look back at World War II. it seems far removed, because thn wholt) attitudn to­wards the war effort was dif­ferent. It wasn't until Vietnam that the atrocities of war really hit horne by corning directly into our living rooms through television, and the conscious­ness of the country was raised. 'Narn made us realize that war -any war-was a bad thing. 
World War II was the biggest event of the 20th century. Whether we lived through it or not, the ell'ects of the war can still be felt socially and politi­cally. The Notre Dame com­munity was forced to make a lot of sacrifices during the war, and those faculty members who participated in the war carry their experienees with them to this day. 
The war was so long ago, and our attitude towards war is so different now, that the entire eonfliet seems unreal-unfor­tunately it was. 

Ewry bran<h of tht Armed Strviets wu tht ttltphottt. Ont of a srrrrs, Anti-Aircraft 
/til ('ht•Nit•riit•ltl ASK tHE 
"OVT THfRf Wf'D ;IVf A BUCK FOR A COKE" 


\\·'llt'n ~uu'rc· rloin;! 11 hun:!-111' jnl1 Hill '111111 a 
hanJt-11(1 !'oiiiOh.c• IIIHI feu• un\luuh'._ .lllnllt'\ \HII 
run't 1m) 11 lu·llc·r c·iJ!III'Pitt• !.hun 4:1u·~h'dic:lcl: 
Tr~ tlwm .'uur..t•lf....\oll'll lind t.lu•.. lt'rli•·ltl­11!'< "ihl ;uullnul,t.. the· cia.' j., lltiii!···OIIItl Ill-It•·•· Tu~tiu;.:. lou. 
CIC.ARETTE COUNTS MOST 

To his mothtr and dad it seems only yesterday that he was using the family telephone co call his high school sweetheart. But cod•y the orders he sends and receives over his w•rrime telephone help speed the d•y when love •nd bughter, peace and progress shall ag•in rule the world. 

"There must be sometklng special about a 5¢ soft drink, when men overseas write home or bring bock tales about it. That bottle and the familiar trade-mark Coca-Colo remind them of home. The delicious taste and refreshment of Coke bring a refreshing moment on the sunny side of things. Enjoy It yourself." 
IIOTTUD uNou AUTHORITY Ol TH! COCA-COLA COM,ANY 1Y ~,...~. ~-~ • DI"\TTII.. It= r,...UD4 .. 1V 1"'\C 1:,-"\IITU OCI.If"\ 


----------~ ------~-----------­







ISH 
_XTRA 
Notre Dame vs. Michigan State 
Friday, September 22, 1989 
THE GAME  
Time  1:30 p.m. EST  
TV & Radio  CBS Sports: Jim Nantz,  
Pat Haden, John Dockery.  
Mutual Radio Network:  
Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna  
WVFI  
Tickets  The game is sold out.  
AP Rankings  Notre Dame 1st  
Michigan State unranked  
Series  Notre Dame leads 35-18,  
with one tie  
Last Game  Notre Dame 20, Michigan  

State 3 
NO SCHEDULE 

Aug 31 ND 36, Virginia 13 Sept. 16 ND 24, Michigan 19 Sept. 23 MICHIGAN STATE Sept. 30 at Purdue Oct. 7 at Stanford Oct. 14 at Air Force Oct. 21 usc Oct. 28 PITTSBURGH Nov. 4 NAVY Nov. 11 SMU Nov. 18 at Penn State Nov. 25 at Miami 
MICHIGAN STATE SCHEDULE 

Sept. 16 MSU 49, Miami (Ohio) 0 Sept. 23 Notre Dame Sept. 30 MIAMI (FLA.) Oct. 7 Iowa Oct. 14 MICHIGAN Oct. 21 ILLINOIS Oct. 28 Purdue Nov. 4 Indiana Nov. 11 MINNESOTA Nov. 18 NORTHWESTERN Nov. 25 Wisconsin 
LAST GAME 
ANN ARBOR-Thank God for Rocket Ismail." 
"He may be the most dangerous player around, with the ball." 
Irish tri-captain Ned Bolcar and Michigan head coach Bo Schembechler pretty much summed up the game as the Notre Dame foot­ball team defeated the Wolverines 24-19 Saturday afternoon, riding the wings of the Rocket Man. 
The game, played on a soggy, dark afternoon, lived up to its billing as the top-ranked Irish battled the No.2 Wolverines to a close finish. 
Ismail's two kickoff returns for touchdowns in the second half were the best offense for the Irish, who played an extremely conservative game on offense. For his efforts, Ismail was awarded the game ball by Irish head coach Lou Holtz. 
"I told him I wish he could find it somehow in the budget to give a game ball to everybody who was on the kickoff return team," Ismail said, "because it would really be unfair for one per­son to receive the ball when there's actually 11 guys that made it all happen." 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Editor 
...and I think it's going to be a long long time 'til touchdown brings me once again to find I'm not the man they think I am at all ... I'm the Rocket Man. 
Notre Dame's Rocket Man, Raghib Ismail, may have to wait a long long time for a touchdown. 
Irish opponents won't kick to him any more, not after the 89-and 92-yard kickoff returns he had against the Michigan Wolverines. They know better. 
Ismail is the man they think he is. He's the one with the 
4.28 speed in the 40 that makes him a terrorfor anyone trying to stop him. But it's not just speed that puts him in the endzone. 
"There are a lot of people that are track men that play football," Irish head coach Lou Holtz says. "Rocket Is­mail is a football player who runs track. He plays foot­ball very very well. He's got natural instincts and natural inclinations. He's got an awful lot of natural moves and he does different things. I was impressed with him in many areas. He's done an outstanding job." 
The 5-10, 175 pound sophomore from Wilkes-Barre, Penn., proved himself to be a dangerous weapon for the Irish against Michigan. _ 
"I visualize catching the ball and cradling the ball first," Ismail says. "Then try to look for some crease in there and try to hit it as fast as I can. Our entire kickoff return team is very confident. We fell that if we all do our assignments correctly, then something positive will happen." 
"The young man did lead the country in kickoff returns last year," Holtz says. "Over the past three or four years we've taken great pride in what we do in special teams. We've been successful." 
Notre Dame's success in that department is always the result of a team effort, but having names like Tim Brown and Rocket Ismail.deep doesn't hurt. 
Ismail has two brotherS, Qadry (The Missile) and Su­laiman (The Bomb), all with excellent speed. Qadry is a wide receiver and returner at Syracuse, Sulaiman, still in high school. 

"The Missile and the Bomb," Rocket said proudly after the Michigan game. "Qadry had a 56 yard return against Temple, and I'll have to call and see how Sulaiman did." 
The Michigan game was the second time Ismail had two kickoff returns for touchdown in one game. He did it last season against Rice. As a freshman, he was al­ready reminding the Irish faithful of the recently de­parted Heisman Trophy winner Brown. 
His stats from last year include six starts in 11 games, 12 receptions for 331 yards, an average of 27.6 per catch. He had four receptions for 96 yards against Mi­ami. 
All told, he caught two touchdown passes, in addition to the two kickoffs he returned for scored against Rice. He averaged 36.1 yards per return last season and was credited with the NCAA title in that category despite be­ing two returns short of the necessary mark. 
Had he had two additional returns for zero yardage each, he still would have won the title. He also returned five punts for 72 yards. 
The attention on Ismail has been amazing since the game, including a seven page feature on him and his family in this week's Sports Illustrated. 
Irish fans hope that the attention on Ismail will con­tinue, and that the opponents can't keep the ball away from him. 

r--~-----~---~-~----~­
IRISH EXTRA 
The Game... 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Assistant Spans Editor  and unimaginative, but these conservative calls got the job done.  running backs in their own backfield, knocking the Red­skins back 19 yards.  
The Irish have been successful  The  Irish took  a  punishing  The Spartans will also look to  
keeping the ball on the ground lately.  ground attack-led by fullback Anthony Johnson's 80 yards  outside linebacker Dixon Ed­wards and tackle Bill Johnson,  
If the Irish plan to continue that pattern Saturday, the finely sheared sod of Notre Dame Stadium may be looking for cover after seeing the Irish  rushing, Hice's 79 and tailback Rod Culver's 35-mixed in a little Hocket fuel and exploded past the Wolverine defense. But Notre Dame's running  who recorded nine and six tackles, respectively.t Michigan State's offense vs. Notre Dame's defense  
and Spartans rack up more than 600 yards in their wins  game was only able to find daylight because of the moving  The Spartans come to South  
last weekend  on  its  more  re­ monstrosity known  as  the of­ Bend after annihilating an out­ 
silient relative, artificial turf.  fensive line.  classed  Redskins squad in  a  
Last year, the Irish travelled  A bruising crew of veterans­ glorified scrimmage last week­ 
to East Lansing, Mich. and beat the Spartans, 20-3, not by using  Mike Brennan, Tim Grunhard, Dean Brown, Mike Heldt and  end and will face their first test offensively when they take on  
a stellar passing attack-only two completions-but by amassing 245 yards rushing against a Spartan defense which led the nation against the run the year before.  Tim Ryan-are the anchors for quick but powerful line which has flattened all comers in the early going. The Irish add a fl~et-footed flanker named Ismail and the  the Irish. Like the Irish, the Spartans relied heavily upon a slew of talented running backs in their season opener as they trampled. the Redskins en route to rack­ 
Head Coach Lou Holtz and his  explosive Ricky Watters at tail­ ing  up  415 yards  on  the  
MSU counterpart George Perles  back  to  the  formula,  giving  ground.  
respect each other's ability to  Heisman trophy candidate Rice  Of the  Spartan's big guns,  
tear up the turf on  both sides  more than one tempting target  one  name  in the lineup  even  
of the ball.  on  deep  or  short  passing  sounds noxious.  
"This is  a  typical Michigan  routes.  Blake Ezor.  
State team  that's going to  be  Notre Dame has yet to utilize  Ezor, a 5-10, 188-pound tail­ 
tough on defense and as physi­ the  soft  hands  of  6-7,  23 5­ back  who  packs  a  powerful  
cal as anyone we play all year,"  pound tight end Derek Brown  punch in his compact frame,  
Holtz said. "You're just not go­ thus far,  but his presence con­ enters Saturday's game ranked  
ing to be able to  run  the ball  tributes to a  potentially potent  second in the nation in scoring  
consistently against them.  passing game.  with  18 points per game and  
"Ezor we know is an excellent  Holtz may be a bit more lib­ eighth  in  rushing  with  130  
running back, and they always  eral in his playcalling this week,  yards per game.  But few  can  
have  an  offensive  line  with  but he is, as usual, hesitant to  deny that Ezor is the Spartan's  
tremendous size and ability. It's  predict greatness and cites his  most  dangerous  weapon,  
not going to  come  easily and  fear of the Spartan defense as  averaging 7.2 yards per carry,  
our players are going to know  the principle reason.  and with fellow tailback Scott  
they've been in a football game  "I always feel like we need to  Selzer picking up 99 yards and  
when its over."  improve  our  passing game,"  two  touchdowns  against  the  
Perles expressed his awe for  Holtz said "and that's the case  Redskins,  the  Spartans'  
the unbeaten and top-ranked  now  even  though the weather  backfield is indeed impressive.  
Irish.  prevented us from throwing the  Junior quarterback Dan Enos  
"It seems  they don't have  a  ball much last week.  will be the signal caller against  
weakness," Perles said. "Notre  "They've established a tradi­ the  Irish  Saturday and  may  
Dame has great speed. They have a lot of ammunition with their great quarterback Tony Hice, running the ball, pitching the option and keeping on the option. They have a good offen­sive line.  tion with their defense, espe­cially against the run. Its bound to be effective when you have a great linebacker like Percy Snow in the middle of it." Middle linebacker Snow led the Spartan defense with 13  have to produce more than 78 yards passing if they Irish are able to stifle the run as they did against the Wolverines. Holtz is again doubtful that his tiny Irishmen can overcome the giants from East Lansing.  
"You're talking about the best team in the nation. They are a oatient defense. You gain a little bit of yardage, but they're motive is to keep you out of the endzone."  tackles last weekend as MSU steamrolled Miami (Ohio). And despite playing only two plays into the second half of their shutout, Snow forced and recovered a fumble while help­ "They're awfully strong of­fensively," Holtz said. "They've got two of the top 40 rushers after one football game and Dan Enos will be far more comfortable at quarterback  
ing teammates like tackle Tim  this week with a game behind  
Notre Dame's offense vs. Michigan State's defense Many conside.red Notre Dame's play calling against the Wolverines last weekend bland  Ridinger wreck havoc upon Mi­ami. Ridinger scalped the Red­skins, ~acking their quarter­back twice for a 17-yard loss and catching three of Miami's  him. This will be just like our game at Ann Arbor-we'll have to work tremendously hard for anything we get against Michigan State." But Notre Dame came into  

Ann Arbor listening to tall tales of Michigan's terrifying offen­sive line-sporting an average of 290-pounds apiece-and in­stead of making holes for their running backs, the Irish made the Wolverine line feel as if it had been dropped into one. 
The Irish slammed the brakes on Michigan's running game, which averaged 252.6 yards per game last year, and allowed the Wolverines just 94 yards on the ground. 
Mike linebacker Ned Bolcar made quite an impression on the Wolverines-especially quarterback Michael Taylor who was knocked out of com­mission Saturday after Bolcar introduced his helmet to Tay­lor's shoulder blades. 
Bolcar, who had 12 solo tackles against the Wolverines, as well as one of the defense's 
! 

Friday, September 22, 1989 
three sacks, got some help from eagle linebacker Donn Grimm who added eight tackles and one sack last week. 
Both will have to help nose­tackle Chris Zorich, right tackle Jeff Aim and right end Scott Kowalkowski shut down the run Saturday, while the Irish will look to hitmen like corner­back Todd Lyght to put more vicious hits on those daring to tread into the secondary. 
Lyght will be joined by free safety Pat Terrell, strong safety D'Juan Francisco and fellow cornerback Stan Smagala in the secondary. 
"I still expect to see im­provement in a number of ar­eas," Holtz said. "If there's one thing I'll say about this team it's that we compete. I think our players know that we have to play as a total team every week for us to win." 


IRISH EXTRA 
Friday, September 22, 1989 
... 
Spartan backs roll over defenses 
Six TDs vs. Miami 
By RICH KESSLER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Michigan State News 
Notre Dame can have its Four Horsemen, but Michigan State has its own brand of thoroughbreds. 
Against Miami (Ohio) September 16, the four Spartan tailbacks, senior Blake Ezor, junior Hyland llickson, sopho­more Scott Selzer and freshman Tico Duckett ran all over the Redskin defense. 
The Michigan State quartet rushed for a total of 415 yards and six of the Spartan's seven touchdowns in the 49-0 white­wash. The only thing that could stop them was Head Coach George Perles and the gun sig­naling the end of the game. 
Ezor ran for 130 yards on 18 carries and scored three times. Hickson totalled 80 yards on seven attempts, but what was really remarkable was that nei­ther played in the second half. 
Perles thought a 35-point lead was good enough to send in his reserve ball carriers and sat Ezor and Hickson down. No one figured the third and fourth team backs would do as well as they did. 
Selzer scored two touchdowns 

Ara's '73 squad squeaks by upstart MSU team 
By VIC LOMBARDI 
Sports Writer 
i\ra Parseghian didn't know what to expect when his unde­feated 1973 squad headed into a game against the winless Michigan State Spartans as overwhelming 28-point fa­vorites. 
Time Capsule 
i\fter all, this was the same i\ra Parseghian who built a four-game winning streak against Michigan State. The same Parseghian whose stingy Notre Dame defense allowed only two Michigan State points in the last three years. Hey, i\ra's team scored a 44-0 vic­tory over Northwestern, a team 
IRISH· OFFENSE 
FLANKER 25 Raghib Ismail B Steve Belles 
DEFENSIVE END 66 Matt Vanderbeek 91 Jim Szymanski 
d 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKER 57 Dixon Edwards ~ 41 Chuck Bullough ~ 
CORNERBACK 25 Ventson Donelson.. 
34 James Rollins FREE SAFETY 
44 Mike laquanie 38 John Kiple 
Blake Ezor, one of the four talented Spartan tailbacks. 
and ran for 99 yards on 16 carries. Duckett's number was called 12 times, and he an­swered with 72 yards. The other Michigan State touch­down also came on the run, as junior quarterback Dan Enos scored on an option plav. 
"It was a good game. for the 
rush," P~les said. "I didn't use any number-one or number-two backs in the second half. Hy-
which upended Michigan State 14-10. He couldn't possibly have been worried. 
Although the Irish dominated the game statistically (299 total yards to 151), five crucial turnovers kept the Notre Dame offense out of the endzone for most of the day. 
The first half was all Notre Dame. Ara's potent offense, led by junior quarterback Tom Clements, rolled up 261 yards in the first half alone. The Irish defense, anchored by All­Americans Ross Browner, Steve Niehaus, Luther Bradley and Townsend, held Michigan State to just one first-half first down. 
After a scoreless first period, the Irish put together a long 80-yard drive for the game's first score. Wayne Bullock, who 
TAILBACK 
·• . :  , ·  12 Ricky Watters 5_ Rodney Culver  
FULLBACK 22 Anthony Johnson  

land ran hard, not only with his legs, but with his upper body. Tico will be a great one on a dry field. Selzer has a great 
cutback style and Blake is a combination of Duckett and Selzer." 
In the past, Ezor has been characterized as a slashing type tailback who will run up the backs of his own blockers. He is very fast, but his best at-
amassed a game-high 77 yards, 
gave Notre Dame a 7-0 lead with a touchdown plunge from the one-foot line. 
Minutes later the Irish re­gained possession at the Irish 37 and began their second scoring drive. Clements hit tight end Dave Caspar with a ~0­
yard screen pass that went all the way to the State 30, and then two plays later, Clements found split end Pete Demmerle on a touchdown hook pattern that gave Notre Dame a com­manding 13-0 lead. Kicker Bob Thomas hit the extra-point and the Irish carried a 14-point edge into the half. 
The second stanza proved to be a defensive struggle. The Irish managed only 38 yards against the Spartans, but a st­ingy defense managed to keep Denny Stolz's team out of the endzone. 
So the Michigan State defense contributed their own scoring. 
A third-quarter fumble recov­ery on the Irish 18 led to a State 33-yard field goal by Dirk Kryt. That gave the Irish a 14-3 lead. 
Four possessions later, the Irish offense found itself deep in its own territory on third­and-22. Clements dropped back and directed an errant pass toward a wide-open Eric Penick, but it was picked off by linebacker Ray Nester, who lumbered in 22 yards for the touchdown to narrow the mar­gin to 14-10. 
After the Spartan defense stopped Notre Dame on fm1r 
plays, quarterback Charlie Baggett and his troops threat­ened with a late 64-yard drive that brought the ball to the Irish 24. With under live min­utes remammg, Baggett dropped back to pass and spot­ted Damond Hays streaking down the right sideline. He let it rip, but Townsend leaped on the east sideline to intercept the pass and return it 47 yards to insure the victory. 
The victory proved to be a 
crucial one, as the Irish went 
on to a perfect 10-0 season and 
a third national championship 
under Parseghian. 

~:TAILBACK 
; -~ Blake Ezor 
_,_,.:"-". 30 Hyland Hickson 
SPARTAN OFFENSE 
TIGHT END TACKLE ft 9 Tony Rice TACKLE ~ 88 Frank Jacobs 64 Mike Brennan V9 3 R1ck M1rer 71 Dean Brown F 
p~\?:~~~oung 1:Ji~Lfohnson 
.·. · 89 Carlos (\o 7(\H~
,.Dmok~o ~"'J'"~ ~ ,.~All~ 
q.r qr qr 
GUARD CENTER GUARD 
GUARD 52 Tim Ryan 55 Mike Heldt 75 Tim Grunhard 
52 Matt Keller 61 Tom Gorman 76 Gene McGuire 74 Mirko Jurkovic 
50 Roosevelt Wagner 35 Ryan Mihalko SPLITEND 
FLANKER 
13 Pat Eilers 
5 Courtney Hawkins 
QUARTERBACK 83 Tony Smith 
11 Darrin Eaton 
TACKLE TACKLE 40 nm Ridinger 75 Travis Davis 62 Cliff Confer 97 Bobby Wilson 
d d d 
~ ~ 
MIDDLE LINEBACKER 48 Percy Snow 32 Brian Jones 
~ 
STRONG SAFETY 
36 Harlon Barnett 18 Corey Pryor 20 Todd Murray 
~ 
tribute is quick acceleration out of the backfield. 
Hickson, on the other hand, is 
the opposite in style, maybe be­cause both are from the same high school. Hickson runs a lot like former Spartan Lorenzo White, now with the Houston Oilers. Quick changes of direc­tion, slippery hip movement and an uncanny filed sense enable 
SPARTAN 
IRISH DEFENSE DEFENSE 
TACKLE 93 Bob Dahl DEFENSIVE END 99 Chris Willertz 
DEFENSIVE END 92 B~ryan Flan-nery 96 Bill Johnson 
37 Scott Kowalkowski 45 Devon McDonald 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKER 51 Carlos Jenkins 54 Tony Briningstool 
A CORNERBACK 
1 Todd Lyght
CORNERBACK 
21 RodSmfth 23 Alan Haller INSIDE LINJ:BACKER ~ 
36DonnGnmm 30NickSmith · 
~ 
FREE SAFETY b.J 15 Pat Terrell U 27 George Poorman 
him to cut up opposing de­fenses. 
"Blake's a slashing type run­ner," Hickson said. "He has both speed and strength, I have 
speed,  but  I'm  more  of  a  
strong,  powerful  runner.  It  
mostly  comes  naturally.  If  

someone is going to hit me, then I'll hit them and keep go­ing." 
;p··. FULLBACK
' ··. 43 Steve Montgomery i'; "27 Rob Roy 
, ..·.•. .--' QUARTERBACKCi':2 4 Dan Enos 
~ 13 John Gieselman 
SPLITEND 3 James Bradley 24 Eddie Brown 
p 
rf\._. t(\ (\. ~~~~~ula 
trr trr .qr 60 Jeff Wittig 
CENTER . GUARD 68 Jeff Pearson n Eric Moten 56 Chris Piwowarczyk 67 Toby Heaton 
NOSE TACKLE 50 Chris Zorich 99 Troy Ridgley 
·-­
TACKLE 
90 Jeff Aim 
9.2
Bryan Fla~~~NSIVE END 
7 Andre Jones 98 Shawn Smith 
INSIDE LINEBACKER 
47 Ned Bolcar 
48 Michael SmaUs 
~CORNERBACK 
STRONG SAFETY 29 Stan Smagala 
32 D'Juan Francisco 19 Shawn Dav1s 
26Gr Davis 
-
-
~-------------------------------------~---------­
IRISH EXTRA 
Friday, September 22, 1989 
IRISH  STATS  G  SPARTAN  STATS  
TEAM STAnSTICS TOTAL OFFENSE Total Plays Yards per Play Yards per Game PENALTIES-YAROS FUMBLES-LOST TOTAL ARST DONNS By Rushing By Passing By Penalty THIRD~ "·POSSESSIClll Tt.1E Per Game SCORING TD R P Johnson 3 2 1 Ismail 2 0 0 Hentrich 0 0 0 Culver 1 1 0 Rice 1 1 0 Watters 1 1 0 Hackett 0 0 0 ND 8 5 1 Opponentl 5 0 5  696 134 5.2 348.0 11-98 2-1 37 28 7 2 12-26 .462 64:2.1 32:10.5 Ret PA 0 0-0 5 0-0 0 5-5 0 0-0 0 0-1 0 0-0 0 1-2 2 6-8 0 2-5  OPP 503 124 4.1 251.5 13-102 3-1 29 12 13 4 12-31 .387 55:39 27:49.5 FG TP 0-0 18 0-0 12 2-5 11 0-0 6 0-0 6 0-0 6 0-0 1 2-5 60 0-0 32  RUSHING N) YDS AVG TD Rice 26 146 5.7 1 Johnson 38 146 3.8 2 Watters 17 85 5.0 1 Culver 16 82 5.1 1 Ismail 6 24 4.0 0 Eilers 1 8 8.0 0 Setzer 3 8 2.7 0 Graham 1 5 5.0 0 Mihalko 1 5 5.0 0 Brooks 2 4 2.0 0 Mirer 2 -3 -1.5 0 NO 113 513 4.5 5 Opponents 72 230 3.2 0 PASSING C A %YDS TD INT Rice 8 13 .615 153 1 0 Mirer 2 7 .286 30 0 1 Graham 0 1 .000 0 0 0 NO 10 21 .476 183 1 1 Opponents 33 52 .635 273 5 3 RECEIVING N:l YDS AVG TD Ismail 5 121 24.2 0 Watters 2 42 21.0 0 Johnson 2 2 1.0 1 Smith 1 18 18.0 0 NO 10 183 18.3 1 Opponentl 33 273 8.3 5  LG 24 23 12 15 7 8 4 5 5 4 0 24 36 LG 52 18 0 52 24 LG 52 30 6 18 52 24  TEAM STATISTICS TOTAL OFFENSE Yards per Play Yards per Game PENAL TIES-YARDS FUMBLES-LOST TOTAL ARST OONNS By Rushing By Passing By Penalty THIRD DONNS-CONV. % POSSESSIClll Tt.4E Per Game SCORING TO R P Ezor 3 30 Setzer 2 2 0 Langeloh 0 0 0 Ena! 110 Hickson 1 1 0 MSU 7 7 0 Opponents 0 0 0  MSU 523 5.2 523.0 11-90 0-0 25 17 5 3 8-2 .250 0:29.47 0:29.47 Ret PA 0 0 0 0 0 7 0 0 0 0 0 7 0 0  OPP 198.0 4.1 198.0 4-40 6-3 13 4 8 1 14-4 .086 0:30.13 0:30.13 FG TP 0 18 0 12 0 7 0 6 0 6 0 49 0 0  RUSHING N) YDS AVG TD Ezor 18 130 7.2 3 Seizer 16 99 6.2 2 Hickson 7 80 11.4 1 Duckett 12 72 6.0 0 Ena! 5 21 4.2 1 Hawkins 1 19 19.0 0 Butland 1 -6 -6.0 0 MSU 60 415 6.9 7 Opponents 32 53 1.7 0 PASSING C A % YDS TO INT Ena! 5 7 .714 78 0 0 Gieselman 2 3 .667 30 0 0 MSU 7 10 .700 108 0 0 Opponents 20 29 .690 145 0 0 RECEIVING N) YDS AVG TO Smolinski 3 34 11.3 0 Bradley 1 26 26.0 0 Hawkins 1 25 25.0 0 Young 1 11 11.0 0 Marino 1 12 12.0 0 MSU 7 108 15.4 0 Opponents 20 145 7.3 0  LG 31 44 24 26 8 19 0 LG 26 18 LG 18 26 25 11 12  
- SPARTANS  TO  WATCH  


George Per1es Coach  Travis Davis DT  Blake Ezor TB  Bob Kula OT  Jeff Pearson c  
Paries  has  guided  the  Davis, at 6-3, 275 pounds, led  Ezor entered the season with  The 6-4, 282 pound Kula is on  A transfer from Notre Dame,  
Spartans to a 13-1-2 Beg Ten  the Big Ten in sacks with 12 in  2,450  career  rushing yards,  the spot this season,  taking  the volatile Pearson will face  
record  over  the  past  two  1987. He was a second-team  and he added 130 yards on 18  over  for  current  Green  Bay  the Irish for the first time. The  
years, including a conference  conference selection  in  the  attempts last weekend. Ezor  Packer Tony Mandarich. Kula  6-3,  265 pound Chicagoan  
championship  and  Bowl  1988 season.  was an honorable mention All­ was tabbed a pre-season All- can bench press 450 pounds.  

NOTRE DAME OFFENSE  NOTRE DAME DEFENSE  MICHIGAN STATE DEFENSE  MICHIGAN STATE OFFENSE  
SE  13  P8t Ellefs  5-11  193  Sr.  RE  37  Scott Kowalkowski  6-2  226  .....  1£  66  Matt Vanderbeek  6-4  250  Sr.  SE  3  James Bradley  6-0  197  .....  
83  Tony Smith  6-2  t87  So.  45  Devon McDonald  6-3  228  So.  91  Jim Szymanski  6-5  250  Sr.  24  Eddie Brown  5-11  185  .k  
ar  64  Mike Brennan  6-5  260  Sr.  LT  93  Bob Dahl  6-5  263  .....  LT  40  Tlm Ridinger  6-1  247  Sr.  LT  63  Bob Kula  6-4  282  Sr.  
53  Winston Sandri  6·4  275  .k.  92  Bryan Flannery  6-3  253  Sr.  62  Cliff Confer  6·3  263  .k.  60  Jeff WiUig  6·6  250  So.  
QG  52  Tin Ryan  6-4  259  .....  NT  50  Chris Zorich  6-1  268  .....  Rr  75  Travis Davis  6-3  275  Sr.  C  68  Jell Pearaon  6-3  265  .....  
61  Tom Gorman  6-6  265  Sr.  99  Troy Ridgley  6-4  250  So.  97  Bobby Wilson  6-2  276  .k.  56  Chris Piwowarczyk  6-3  259  So.  
c  55  Mike Heklt  6-4  265  .....  Rr  90  Jail Am  6-7  270  Sr.  RE  99  Chris Wlllertz  6-3  252  Sr.  R>  52  Matt Keller  6-4  280  .....  
76  Gene McGuire  6-5  259  So.  82  Bryan Flannery  6-3  253  Sr.  96  Bill Johnson  6·4  271  So.  50  Roosevelt Wagner  6·2  272  Fr.  
TG  75  Tim Grunhllrd  6-3  292  Sr.  DE  7  Andre Jones  6-4  215  .....  SOLB51  Carlos Jenkins  6-4  215  .....  Rr  69  Jim Johmson  6-5  295  So.  
74  Mir1<o Jur1<ovic  6-5  279  So.  98  Shawn Smith  6-3  206  Fr.  54  Tony Briningstool  6-4  224  So.  70  Bob Henry  6-5  277  So.  
TT  71  DMnBrown  6-3  291  Sr.  8.B 36  Donn Grimm  6-2  231  .....  MLB  48  Percy Snow  6-2  244  Sr.  TE  29  Duane  Young  6-2  256  .....  
72  Joe Allen  6-4  288  .K.  87  Brian Ratigan  6-4  215  FR.  32  Brian Jones  6·1  226  .K.  89  Carlos Marino  6-3  245  So.  
TE  88  F...... .~Kobe  6-6  234  .....  MLB  47  NedBolcar  6-2  229  Sr.  WOLB57  Dixon Edwards  6-1  210  .....  al  4  Dan Enos  6-2  190  .....  
85  Derek Brown  6-7  235  So.  48  Michael Smalls  6-3  223  So.  41  Chuck Bullough  6-2  227  So.  13  John Gieselman  6-2  186  Fr.  
al  9  Tony Rice  6-1  200  Sr.  FCB  1  Toddlyght  6-1  181  So.  sea 23  Alan Haller  5-11  188  So.  18  26  Blake Ezor  5-10  188  Sr.  
3  Rick M1rer  6-3  205  Fr.  21  Rod Smith  6·1  183  So.  16  Corey Pryor  5-10  175  So.  30  Hyland Hickson  5-9  210  .K.  
.  .  Rl  22 35  A.nthony Joh...., Ryan Mihalko  6-0 6·2  220 234  Sr. .k.  sea 29 19  Stan Smagala Shawn Davis  5-11 6-0  186 181  Sr. So.  FS  44 38  Mike laquanlello John Kiple  6-4 6-1  205 187  ..... Sr.  FB  43 27  Steve Montgomery Rob Roy  6-2 5-11  238 235  Sr. J-.  
18  12  RlckyW-.a  6-2  1911  .....  ss  32  OJ Francl8co  5-11  182  Sr.  ss  36  Harton Barnett  6-0  1911  Sr .  A.  Courtney Hawkins  5-9  181  So.  
5  Rodney Culver  6-0  219  So.  26  Greg Davis  6-1198  .K.  20  Todd Murray  6-0  191  Fr.  11  Darrin Eaton  6·1  195  So.  
A.  25  R8ghlb .....ll  5-10  175  So.  FS  15  PaiTenell  6-0  195  Sr.  WCB 25  Ventaon Donelson  6-0  182  Sr.  K  1 0  John Langeloh  6-2  180  .....  
8  Steve Belles  6-4  217  Sr.  27  George Poorman  6-2  191  So.  34  James Rollins  6·1  198  .k.  P  88  John Butland  6-5  240  So.  
K  18  Blly HKicett  6-1  194  .....  
28  Craig tt.ntrlch  6-1  175  Fr.  
p  16  Jim Sexton  6-0  183  .....  
28  Craig Hentrtch  6-1  175  Fr.  
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS  
Each  week,  The  Observer  
sports staff,  a  random student  
picked by the sports department  
and  some  well-known figure in  
the Notre Dame community pre­ 
dict the outcomes of the week's  
major college  football  game5o.  
- Records are compiled as to how each person does against the spread. In other words, it isn't enough to pick the winner of a given game. The person must pick the winner and give the un­derdog points.  Steve Megargee Associate Sports Editor 11-3-0 .786 Last week: 11-3  Heather Atkinson SMC Sports Editor 11-3-0 .786 Last week: 11-3  Greg Guffey Assistant Sports Editor 10-4-0 .714 Last week: 10-4  Molly Mahoney Assistant Sports Editor 10-4-0 .714 Last Week: 10-4  Theresa Kelly Sports Editor 8-6-0 .571 Last week: 8-6  John Burt<us Guest Celebrity 8-6-0 .561 Last week: 8-6  Kelly KolodzieJ Random Student 12-2-0 .857 Last week: 12-2  
W. VIrginia 10.5 over LOUISVILLE  Cardinals  Mountaineers  Cardinals  Mountaineers  Mountaineers  Mountaineers  Mountaineers  
ARIZONA even vs. Washington  Huskies  Huskies  Huskies  Huskies  Huskies  Huskies  Huskies  
Michigan 5 over UCLA  Wolverines  Wolverines  Bruins  Wolverines  Wolverines  Wolverines  Wolverines  
CLEMSON 16 over Maryland  Terrapins  Tigers  Terrapins  Tigers  Tigers  Tigers  Tigers  
PENN ST. 8.5 over Boston Col.  Nittany Lions  Nittany Lions  Nittany Lions  Nittany Lions  Golden Eagles  Nittany Lions  Nittany Lions  
Texas 36 over SMU  Longhorns  Longhorns  Mustangs  Longhorns  Longhorns  Mustangs  Longhorns  
AIR FORCE 20 over Texas-EI Paso  Falcons  Falcons  Falcons  falcons  Falcons  Falcons  Falcons  
Miami (Fla.) 25 over MISSOURI  Hurricanes  Tigers  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  
USC 9.5 over Ohio State  Buckeyes  Trojans  Buckeyes  Bruins  Buckeyes  Buckeyes  Buckeyes  
Oregon 6 over STANFORD  Cardinal  Cardinal  Cardinal  Cardinal  Ducks  Ducks  Ducks  
PITI 1.5 over Syracuse  Panthers  Panthers  Panthers  Panthers  Orangemen  Panthers  Panthers  
VIRGINIA 8 over Duke  Blue Devils  Cavalier  Blue Devils  Cavaliers  Cavaliers  Blue Devils  Cavaliers  
Houston 7.5 over ARIZONA ST.  Cougars  Sun Devils  Cougars  Sun Devils  Cougars  Cougars  Sun Devils  
NOTRE DAME 18 over Michigan St.  Irish  Irish  Irish  Irish  Irish  Irish  Irish  


e 11 
Attack of the killer alumni 

MATT SPATZ 
accent writer 
We've all seen them. They storm the campus on game day, clad in their finest bookstore garb and humming the "Victory March" on the way to and from BRAIN: Sharp as a tack. Cantailgaters. Loud, jovial, and recall which quarterbackever anxious to recapture the threw one-for-one in his onlyglory of their own days under 
game at NO. Sends "stand"
the Dome, Notre Dame's command to legs at the firstAlumni are just as much a part two notes of "Notre Dame,of game weekends as tailgaters Our Mother."
and tee-shirts. To assist the un­trained spectator in recognizing these strange creatures, Ob­server staff consulted fashion, cultural. and social analysts to create this diagram of the common "ND Alum." 
CHEEKS: Rosy, to match his nose. 
MOUTH: Can violate South Bend noise ordinances, chal­lenge poor official calls, and spin yarns about how "we used to whip 'em fifty-to­nothing every weekend." 
TIE: "ND" or striped blue and gold. Worn proudly to the office on Monday morning. 
UMBRELLA: Keeps him dry when opened. Keeps him bal­anced when it's closed. 
MIDRIFF: (MIDDLE) Slightly larger than when he graduated. But in those days he was 'a rock.' 
BELT: Size 38" with ND in­signia. Plays NO light song. 
CUSHION: He doesn't stand anymore. Embroidered with university logo and plays ND light song. 
SHOES: Worn through at the soles from touring the campus, waiting in line at the bookstore, and barging into Farley at 8 am saying, "This was my room back when we didn't have these 'girls' here." 
CAP: Irish Tweed. Used to be his grandfather's. Helps keep the sun out or his eyes on those 'classic' game days. Also covers his bald spot. 
EYES: Always 'smiling.' Slightly bloodshot. 
GLASSES: He studied too, but that was by candlelight (In a foot or snow, uphill.) 
BUTTON: Plays the ND light song. 
DRINK: Gin and Tonic, Irish whiskey, or Manhattan (real dinks, by Golly.) In tumbler which plays ND light song. 
BLAZER: Kelly green with pockets for bottle opener, ten-year football schedule, and a key chain which plays the ND light 
song. 
PANTS: Undoubtedly the most distinguishing feature of the "Alum." Plaid, with all six official ND colors. Worn an­nually and not available to un­dergrads. 
Friday, September 22, 1989
page 12 The Observer 
The importance of being nostalgic 
If the world weren't in such a constant state of change, none of us would have much need for nostalgia. Once you realize that you're riding on a freight train from the cradle to the grave, nostalgia is like a mother's 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
look like a lampshade, reminds me of my own mother in the days before ladies wore pants suits. She would put on gloves and a fussy dress even when doing the Saturday shopping. Women never seem to wear gloves anymore. Maybe that's no big deal, though a gloved mother used to strike me as thE height of elegance. 
Sometimes, looking at the Church, I wonder where the gloves went. When I remember how formal and beautiful the Latin Mass used to be, I'm sorry that the Church took off the glad rags, and put on a pants suit. 
If the Church is the Bride of Christ, how come the Bride­groom didn't keep the priests and the pope from trifling with tradition, until even the liberals became sick of nostalgia, and fifteen million of them gave up going to Mass? 
The changes were fun for awhile, until we realized how banal the one, true Faith was becoming. The Latin mumbo­jumbo started to look good, even to those who believed in their hearts that it was all ho­cus-pocus and metaphysical nonsense. At least, they felt, it Notre Dame is the showcase for nostalgia in the lives of its graduates. Coming back, they look for the Dome, the Grotto, the old dorms, the lakes, and a victory for the home team in the stadium. The thrill of all this wouldn't be half as great if something else wasn't added. 
The past is still here, visible enshrined in the landmarks of the old campus. God be praised, the old campus sits like a jewel surrounded by the new, modern, up-to-date quads. These make Notre Dame almost the equal of the best and brightest, competing with the most expensive and prestigious colleges in the land. 
Would the alumnus be so well-pleased if the only building here were the ones where the good ol' boys slept and studied in 1952, when Father Hesburgh became president? Something old, something new, something bright and beautiful, makes the homecoming weekend a grand event. 
"Is Notre Dame still Catholic?" the old grads ask, meaning, among other things, arc the students still attending Mass? You don't know how much good it does them to hear the Catholic faith is still alive 
and well at Notre Dame. 
Nostalgia-like the quality of mercy, which Portia praises in the "Merchant of Venicc"-is not strained, "It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven/Upon the place be­neath ... " 
Nostalgia's is the patriot's last refuge, and is the grace he needs most when laying down his life for his friend. 
This weekend, you may see the old grad, with his eyes pud­dling with tears, when he finds his initials just as he carved them years ago on the outhouse door. When you speak of this-as you someday will-tell the story with kindness, remembering that you will be old yourself someday. 
You may find then that nos­talgia is all that is left, after your faith, teeth, and lust, as well as your love for money, have gone the way of all flesh. Or, if you're a saint by then, you may find that your desire for heaven is laced with nostal­gia, as you hope for your eter­nity to be as happy as your childhood was. 
milk, if you have cultivated a memory for the sweetness of your yesterdays. 
Nostalgia may seem like a cheap, sentimental emotion, if you happen to be a zombie; otherwise is should be obvious that nostalgia is not cheap at all, since you have to pay for it with the years of your life. I know that I couldn't make so many nostalgia trips, if I hadn't lived to the age of 63. 
Eliot's Prufrock asks, "Is it perfume from a dress/that makes me so digress? Perfume, that is, noticed in a room where the women come and go/talking of Michelangelo. Ah, the pain of hearing the mermaids singing, each to each, fearing that they will not 
sing to me, because I grow old ... I grow old ... I shall wear the bottoms of my trousers rolled." 
Or consider as the French say in "La nostalgie de Ia boue," "Put a duck on a lake in the midst of some swans, and you'll sec he'll miss his pond and eventually return to it, longing to be back in the mud!" 
Nostalgia is, as Wordsworth said of poetry, "The sponta­neous overflow of powerful emotion recollected in tranquil­ity." Being so closely allied to poetry, it's the handmaiden of religion and for all I know, it may be the prime passion which convinces the heart that the heart cannot enjoy peace 

until it's at rest in the Everlasting Arms. 
The Church ritualizes and makes sacraments of nostalgia. The Church justifies itself for the way it packages the transcendent by referring to Christ, as the one who institutionalized the fraternal and divine love present in the 
Upper Room by turning it into a liturgy. Nostalgia may seem like a weak word to use for the Communion between God and man, but what else is the Eucharist but nostalgia with a miracle added to keep a moment from the past alive in the present until the end of time? 
Nostalgia goes to work to re­capture the past, allowing it to 
wash over us, leaving us afloat in bittersweetness, saddened by our recollections of fine feel­ings that may not come our way again. Nostalgia can be stirred by the simplest things. In England, the sign of milk de­livered to the door in bottles reminds me of childhood in the days beforn supermarkets sold milk in disposable containers. 
The sight of women in Lon­don restaurants, dressed in a style chiefly worn now by the was culture that the human spirit could survive on and not counter-culture, like the free love at Woodstock. 
The liberals who became dropouts are obviously disap­pointed these days, when they come back to confession. Even sin isn't the big deal it used to be. The exiles, on their return, are gun-shy from meeting cler­ics who are campaigning to make sacraments out of the Seven Deadly Sins. 
The football weekend at

uccn Mother, dolled u to 
• 0 
~
. 
__,) 
5Ef: Dl('.l( 
fj ~ ~\tv-
D(IV[ 
SEE [)IC k DUtb 
Don't drink and drive 

One-Half Mile East of Notre Dame Stadium 
Oak 

Featuring One & Two Bedroom Luxury 
.,j ................. 
Condominiums. Starting at $49,900 
C()NDOMINIUMS 
Models Open Daily: Mon-Fri 10am-6pm Sat & Sun 1pm-4pm 
1720 South Bend Ave. (Corner of State Rd. 23 & Edison) 
(219) 277-1997 
... 


-~---------------------~------------~~--~ 
Friday, September 22, 1989 
The Observer page 13 
The Observer accepts c1ass1fleds •ev<:ry busmess day from 10 a.m to 3 JO p m at the Notre Dame oll•ce. 314 LaFortune. and from 12 30 to 3 p m at the Samt Marys office Haggar College Center Deadlme lor''"'' day class1fleds IS 3 p.m All class1f1eds must be
Classifieds prepaid The charge IS 2 cents per character per day mctudmg spaces 
NOTICES  Help! I need 1 MSU ticket . Student or GA. Will trade 2 Purdue GA's. #4853  TICKETS  I NEED HELP. 3 GA and 2 Student tickets needed for the USC game. Call John at 2005 if you can help.  CA LAWYER NEEDS USC GA'S!!! PLEASE CALL AMBER x2529!!!!!!  IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 MICH ST GA'S CALL CHERIE 4969.  
I need 3 USC GA's-call Jahnelle  
TYPING  PART-TIME ASSISTANT COACH  NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN  x2979  I REALLY NEED 4 MSU TICKETS.  
Pickup & Delivery 277-7406 PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard 3 blks. from ND campus 233-2342 $$$ FOR YOUR BOOKS WE BUY AND SELL USED TEXTBOOKS !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  NEEDED FOR LOCAL AGE GROUP SWIM TEAM. 2-3 NIGHTS PER WEEK PREVIOUS COACHING/SWIM LESSON EXPERIENCE HELPFUL. CALL 233-1366 OR 232-0589. Ride wanted for beginning-of Oct. break 1 0/20 or 10/21 . Going to Northwest New Jersey near  STATE GAME. WILL EXCHANGE 2 GA'S FOR USC, 2 GA'S FOR NAVY OR PAY CASH. CALL TIM. FLANNER HALL, EXT. 1143. NEED 4 MICH. ST. GA OR STUDENT BADLY . WILLING TO PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL ERICH AT X1622.  I need 10 Micl:t. St. Tix!! I have 2 Pitt Tix to sell Pat x1 857 NEED TICKETS FOR ALL N.D. GAMES. 272-9772 AFTER-P.M. DESPERATELY NEED MICH. STATE GA TIX. CALL LAURA 284­5204.  HELP!!!!! I NEED 4 USC GA's lor my family! Please call Bryan at 2285. Help! I!!! I need a student or GA for USC lor my brother.Piease call Steve-2285  CALL BEN AT 1126. PITI or USC GAs needed desparately. Please call Mike at #2288. NEED SEVERAL PITI TIX PLEASE!! #2819  
Word proc..ssing experience plus BA in English 271-0682. TYPING  Allentown PA. area. Please call Sandy at 3890. Will share cost and driving.  TRADE 2 MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS FOR 2 USC TICKETS CALL X2766  Need 1 Mich. State stud. or G.A. Todd #277-9469  WANTED TWO USC AND TWO AIR FORCE GA's WILL PAY BIG BUCKS CALL MIKE AT2S08.  Help Two Brothers coming 1n for Mich St Need two tckts Stud or GA Willing to pay call Keven #2300  
JACKIE BOGGS 684-8793 LEGAL SECRETARY WILL DO TYPING/WORD PROCESSING.  FOR RENT BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153.  Travel Tour Operator needs tickets for all N.D. games-home and away, especially MSU, USC and Miami. Premium price paid. Immediate case available. Will  Need many MIAMI tix. $ $ $ $ Barry 289-841 7.  HEY! I NEED 2 GA'S FOR MSU CALL JOHN X1761  Need 2 GAs to USC. Have 2 Mich. St. GAs to trade. Evenings 239­7998  
PICK UP & DELIVERY AVAILABLE. CALL 255-1726.  2 BEDROOM HOUSE FOR RENT. 5 MINUTE WALK TO CAMPUS.  trade for all major sporting events including Final 4, Indy 500 and bowl game, etc. Will also buy  Need 2 GA's to either NAVY or SMU. Please call Dave-#3313.  HAVE 2 GA'S FOR NAVY AND 2  NEED 2 USC GA'S Please Call Vin x-2015  
Student Comedy. Bands and coffehouse call 277-3653 Alumni Sr. Club wants you ...  $350. 234-4153. FURNISHED APT. FOR SUBLET 3 MALE ROOMMATES. $140  season tickets. Please call Dave at 1-800-828-8955 today. Help, the whole family is coming  I NEED USC GA'S!!!!!!!!!!!! Am willing to trade Mich St. Pitt, Navy, SMU, and Purdue or pay big  FOR PITI---WILL TRADE FOR 3 USC. CALL ANNE AT 2670. NEED 3 MSU GA's  I need 2 MSU GAs & 1 stud. WILL PAY BIG$$$ Call Shannon at 284-5244.  
CALL TODD 232-5571  for USC, so we need lots of tickets.  dough!! call (219) 283-3571  Have$$$  
SAINT MARY'S RIDING CLUB!!!!  Willing to pay big bucks. Call John  Call Tariq@ X3475  PARENTS ARE COMING1 NEED 2  
CLASSES NOW FORMING  or Erich at  x1622.  Please save me from the wrath of  I need USC GA's. Will beat best  GA'S FOR PITI! CALL TIM 4043  
• ENGLISH AND WESTERN "INTERCOLLIGIATE SHOWING • P.E. CREDIT AVAILIABLE <CALL EMILY AT 284-5085> OR SHERRIE AT 683-3068 IRISH FANS: Stop by the PW CONSESSION STAND in front of  2 BDRM HOUSE NEAR ND, $350 MO. 272-6306 FOR SALE COLOR TV RENTALS 13-INCH, $50/SEM, $80/YR; 19-INCH, $70/SEM, $120/YR; 25-INCH, $90/SEM, $160/YR  Desperate! Will give my first born or any $ for 2 USC GAs Chris B #1484 HELP! Need 4 Pitt GAs for my family Call Chad x1132 Need up to 4 Mich St & 8 Pitt TIX Money no problem!! Mike X1236  my sister. I will trade pitt stud tix and/or pay lots of $$ lor Michigan State studs or gas! Call Tim 1064. WANT TO TRADE (2) PURDUE OR (2) AF FOR PENN STATE, USC OR PITI TICKETS. 717-339­3901. ****************TRADE •••••••*****  offer. Ann x2830 Need Pitt student tix (3). Call Nicole 2784. Need USC Gas badly! MSU student best offer Kyle 1387  My lite will end if I can't get Mich. St. tix . will pay top price x1791 NEED 2 GA's FOR PITiorNAVY Please Call Vin x-2015 IN DIRE NEED OF 4 MICHIGAN STATE STUDENT TICKETS!!!  
DILLON HALL before and after THE GAME!  CALL ANYTIME FOR FREE DELIVERY COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272­ WANTED:  USC vs.  Have: 2 Mich. St.(30 yard line G.A.) Need: 2 U.S.C. Call Tom #3444  NEED 2 USC GAs!! Rebecca 4975  PLEASE CALL JOE @ 1849 HELP!!!!!  
Have you figured out... ...how you're going to do it? Huh? Have you? Any ideas?  5959 '89 ND GRAD SELLING '82 OLDS WAGON. GOOD CONDITION, RUNS WELL. NO PROBLEMS STARTING OR MAINTAINING. $1200 (NEG.) GREAT FOR  NDllCKETS 24hr. answering service (213) 487-4161 !-lome {213)422-2812  ••••••••********TRADE ************ I need MICHIGAN ST. GA's. If you can help me out, please call Nelson at x3278.  I NEED 2 PITI GA WILL TRADE 2 USC STU ROB X1682 NEED PITI TIX : 2 GA 1 STUD MUGHO DINERO • BOB Q x1409  I NEED ONE USC GA FOR DAD I'LL PAY BIG BUCS!!!! CALL CHRIS AT X4050  
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082.  SCHOOL. BETIER FOR GETIING TO & FROM. CALL CHRIS AT (312) 935-8368 AFTER  IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 MICH ST GA'S CALL CHERIE X4969  Need STU Tx for Mich St Will buy or trade Pitt Call Maureen 2674  AIR FORCE -need 3 tix. call John at 1665.  CALL ANYTIME!!!!! WANTED: TWO MICHIGAN  
Word Processing available. Reasonable rates. 277-6091 This Friday Anti-Apartheid Network vigil at 12:15 p.m. Every Friday Anti-Apartheid Network vigils at 12:15 p.m. LOST/FOUND  ?PM. Magnavox complete 100 watts stereo system $350. 234-2579 NEW IBM AT286 COMPATIBLE. COLOR. 20 MEG DRIVE. $1395. 234-2579 '73 Kawasaki 250 Enduro; runs  NEED 2 SMU TIX-GA OR STU. NAME YOUR PRICE!!! CALL MATI #3489 MICHIGAN STATE GA TIC NEEDED FOR DAD. WILL PAY BIG $$$. CALL 1224.  NEED 4 NAVY GAs X3500-WATIS I'VE GOT FIFTY REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD SELL ME YOUR MICH ST GA OR STUD TIX. call Mark 4274 NEED FOUR GA's TO NAVY!!!!!  I NEED 3 MICH. ST.STUD. TIX $$$ CALL JEFF X21 00 FOR SALE!!!! 1 Michigan State GA Ticket. Best offer by 10 pm Thurs. Call Brian at #1804 Me and Adam need some USC tix. Seven to be exact. Call Brian or Adam at #1804. ($$$$$)  STATE TICKETS FOR TWO NO GRADS. LETS MAKE A DEAL! CALL AMY AT 2640. I NEED 2 PITI GA'S (FOR MY PARENTS)!!! CALL CARYN 4830. NEED 4 PITI GA'S CALL DAVE 283-1417  
Lost and Found  great. Askng $300; KEN 233-9106  I NEED 3 MICH. ST. GA'S CALL BILL X4274  PLEASE CALL KARIN x13211!!  Hi, I'm Rob. I need 4 Navy Tickets. Please call #1804 an give them to  WANTED: USC vs. NDllCKETS  
LOST GOLD CLADDAGH RING OUTSIDE O'SHAG. DIAMOND STONE REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE CALL X2670 OR 277-9281 IF FOUND. LOST: JEAN JACKET WITH CORDUROY COLLAR. JACKET HAS A TEAR BEHIND THE NECK AND HAS A 1988 US OLYMPIC  1980 4 door Honda Accord Call #3619-Price Negotiable 79 BUICK LIMITED 85'000 MILES. VERY GOOD CONDITION. 239-7455 WEEKDAYS 9AM-4PM V-Tapes all 1988-89 N.D. football games. Please call Paul Roy 232­ DESPARATE FOR 2 MSU GA'S AND USC STUD. WILL TRADE A PITI JOHN2207 DESPERATELY SEEKING 5 USC GA'S. PLEASE CALL CARl 2855. NEED 2 USC GA'S. WILL PAY TOP $$$. CALL JACK 2366.  USC TICKETS RICH ALUM NEEDS STUDENT AND GA TICKETS TO USC GAME WILL PAY BIG$$$ NANCY 277-7593 HELP Need 6 GA's and 2 students, cousins think I have pull Don't let them change their mind... call Bill 277-3653 thanks  me. NEED GA TIX FOR ANY HOME GAMES. CAL:L MATI 272-3491. •••*****TRADE********** I HAVE 1 USC TIC WILL TRADE FOR 1 MICH STATE TIC & CASH #3624 2 MICH ST. GA'S NEEDED. CALL  24hr. answering service (213) 487-4161 Home (213\422-2812 NEED 4 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN STATE -JAMES X1860 FOR SALE MICH STATE GA'S -BEST OFFER CALL277-1878  
PIN ON THE LEFT POCKET. REWARD OFFERED FOR RETURN. CALL MARK . X3467 LOST !! GOLD CHAIN WITH CROSS, sometime Thurs 9/14  7602 Desperately seeking 4 MSU and 4 PittGA's Call Jenny at 284-4213  H.......E.....L.... P NEED 2-4 GA'S (TOGETHER) FOR ANY GAME. WILL PAY BIG MOOLAH ($$). PLEASE CALL JEFF 277-3998:  The Units need USC Tix! Call Amy at 2640. BIG$$$! ••••• I NEED 2 USC GA'S"..FOR BIG$$ CALLS. MARK 277-6087  JIM AT 277-6405 DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA'S TO THE PITI GAME -PARENTS COMING!! CALL JACKIE X4114  I NEED 2 GA'S FOR NAVY OR SMU. WILL PAY GOOD$$$$$! CALL STEVE AT X4289 I NEED  
MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUE PLEASE call Christine at 2905 if found. Reward. FOUND: 4 keys on ring, in front of Fisher Hall Fri 16SEP. call Patrick #2383. describe and claim. LOST: Set of 5 keys, on 9118 P.M., on road between Stepan Center and Power Plant. Call Mike, x201 0. FOUND: a watch in Knott study room. Kathleen x4930. LOST: Gold chain with cross in the Rockne. If found please call Colin at x1930. LOST: Pair of Prescription GLASSES in a brown, felt case. Please call Stacy x4120 if found.  NEED 4 MSU TIX EITHER GA OR STUDENT CALL DANNY LYONS 232-9365 Need ride to Pittsburgh ijust one way) for October break. Need to leave Sunday morn. the 22 (after the USC game). Will help wrth expenses. Call Nicole 2784. NEED 4 PITI GAs CALL DOUG at x1 065 I will pay for ALL EXPENSES for a ride to Cleveland, traveling any time between 9/28 and 10/2. Please call 288-2956 SHOW YOUR SUPPORT LOFT A HEILUM FILLED BALLOON ON  NEED 1 OR 2 GA'S FOR ANY HOME GAME!! JIMBO (LEAVE MESSAGE) 289-6864. HELP! I NEED TICKETS 12SMU 2USC AND A TICKET TO ANY HOME GAME FOR MY SISTER AT WEST VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY WHO WANTS TO SEE A REAL FOOTBALL GAME. CALL GINA AT 2690 HELP, THE WHOLE FAMILY IS COMING FOR USC, SO WE NEED LOTS OF TICKETS. WILLING TO PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL JOHN OR ERIK AT 1622 I NEED 6 PITI TICKETS CALL 277-9281 OR X2760. WILL PAY$$$$$$$$$ Need two SMU tix please call 284­4930!!!!!!!!!!  Help I need 2 G.A.'s lor U.S.C. Price is no object. Tara 284-5195 HAVE 1 MICH ST STUD FOR SALE OR TRADE NEED 2 GA AND 2 STUD FOR USC call 3095 or 1735 HAVE 1MICH ST GA WILL TRADE FOR 1USC GA CALL 16550R4224 NEED CASH ??? Sell me 2 GA's for MICHIGAN ST Call Laura x2851 NEED 2 USC GA'S CALL CAROLYN X451 0 I DEMAND 6 stud tix and 2 GA's for the PITI game--Pete L.x1791  -NEW AD­1 Mich. St. stud. tix. Best offer by 5 pm Friday-277-2781. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Alumni need USC tix. Will pay big lawyer bucks !! Call Sam at (201) 334-3804 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ PLEASE HELP!! I desperately need an SMU student of GA ticket!! Thanks! Johanna at# 4456 Have 2 M.S. GA's, but want to trade for 2 Sr. Student tix and face$. Call Peter 289-7930. H E L P ...... M E ! ! ! ! My little brother has never seen ND play...Can T R A D E SMU tix and pay $$$$$$$$ Jim x2388  USC AND PITI TICKETS. PLEASE CALL BRIAN AT X2322 OR X2376 Money. It's hard to live without rt. We could make your life a little easier. We need Michigan State student or GA tickets. Call Molly or Andi at 3885. ELVIS IS DEAD and so am I ill can't find 3 GA tickets to the Pitt game. 317-743-7208. Help! Need 3 GA tickets to Pitt game. 317-743-7208. $$$$Free Beer II Free Beer$$$$ You can come to my tailgater and get it if you sell me 3 USC GA's or Student tickets for my desparate parents and wonderful brother!!! Please call Cathi or Kelly at "4985 $$Free Beer$$$ NEED 1 MSU GAtor Grandma!!! call Dan x1801.  
"KICK OFF" $65.00 PER 100 BALLOONS-BALLOONS  NEED SEVERAL PITI GA'S PLEASE!! #2819  I NEED MICH. ST. TIX  x1758  PLEASE........  Need TIXX to any home football game.Big $$$.Call John X1583  .,  
FOUND: BLACK CAT by the law school. Call 283-2637 to claim.  BOUQUETS,ARRANGEMENTS, PARTY DECORATIONS TEL-256-0062  HAVE TWO PITI G.A. TICKETS  WANTED: 2 Mich St GA's You name the price Call Kevin at 3279  HELP!! I need 3 SMU GA's lor a priest friend. If you sell me your  NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICH. ST. WILL PAY GOOD$$ BRAD X3507  
WANTED SHENANIGANS is looking for spirited bass, piano, sax, and  255-3667 MISHAWAKA,IN. MSU STUD FOR SALE-BEST OFFER BY 6:00 FRIDAY!! x1804  ANDWOULD LIKE TO TRADE FOR TWO USC G.A.'S. PLEASE CALL X4023 NEEDED TWO MICHIGAN STATE TIX -STUD OR GA. HELP TWO  I need Mich. St. tix. Please call Allison, x2741. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  tickets. maybe you'll go to Heaven! Callx2335 $$$$ K. x2597 $$$$ need 2-3 USC GA'S $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  SEX NEEDED & 3 MICH ST, STUDENT CALL MARK 271-8860  
horn players. Interested? call  COLOR TV $40; 20 GAL FISH  ALUMNI.  CALL#4041  NEED 2 SMU TICKETS-GA'S  
Walter @ 271-0758.  AQUARIUM $70 272-6306  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  !-'LEASE CALL 277-9281  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Call Dan at 271-9821  see CLASS I page 14  



Friday, September 22, 1989
page 14 The Observer 
NEED MICH. ST. TIX??? HELP! I need your Michigan St. MARY ANN HENNESSEY ROCK AND ROLL AI NT NOISE Thank you St. Jude for prayers STUD. GA-CALL AND MAKE tickets. Call Tina at x4840 I'm glad we have our chothers. POLLUTION !! PHOENIX Rocks answered-CTM 
Class 
OFFER MATI X4274 lwuvewe, Thoedore's -Friday 1 0-1 am !!
HAPPY BIRTHDAY KRISTI 
Only 364 days until CIRCUS continued from page 13 HAVE A GREAT ONE Coli Assume pass-out position .. LUNCH Ill 
YA'LL
MICH. ST. TIX 4 SALE!! MIAMI FLIGHTS • MIAMI Mark Mclaughlin is back!!! 
NEED LOTS OF TICKETS FOR 
MSU-STUD. & GA CALL 1644 
'HELP THE NEEDY I need 2USC tix I need 2SMU tix GA call 4364 Kevin H 
R.E.M. TICKETS Four 13th row, center tickets Best offer. Call3590 or 3897 
NEED MICH. ST. & USC GA'S. JOE X1714. 
I WANT TO TRADE TWO PID 
GA'S FOR EITHER 2 MICHIGAN GA'S OR TWO USC GA'SIIIII CALL AMY AT 1265. 
I Need 1 SMU GA .. I Need 4 PITI. GAs.. Call Chris@ 289-9811 
NEED 2 USC GAS AND 7 NAVY GAS!IIIII CALL JULIE X3141 IIIII !I 
TOP$ 
ALL HOME GA'S 
312-920-9350 CALL MATI X4274 
Please ... need 2 USC GA's!ll Also 3 Navy GA's or Stu. and 1 SMU GA. JEFF at 271-8309. Thanks!!!! 
I HAVE 2 MSU GA's! Best offer by 3 p.m. Friday. Call Stacy at 
X2798. 
FOR SALE: MICH ST. & PITI student tix. Will trade for USC or sell. Call233-8574, leave mess. 
I NEED MICH ST TIX 272-6306 
PERSONALS 
ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF PRA YEA AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W, KOKOMO. IN 46901. 
GOT A GREAT IDEA? SEND AN ARTICLE TO COMMON SENSE PO BOX 957 NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 DEADLINE: SEPT 30. 
Take ride into Chicago on Saturdays. Ride the WINDY CITY SHUTILE. Tickets $10-available at the Information Desk, LaFortune or call239-7442 for 
~-~~~-!~~~~!1:1-~!i~~;______________ _ 
TAKE A LOAD OFF! Rent a locker in LaFortune--only $5 per year. For details stop at the Information Desk, LaFortune.
-----------------------... ------------­
VALUE CHECK COUPON BOOKS are still available. If you have not picked your book up, or wish to buy a book, stop by the LaFortune Information Desk. Weekdays 9am­
-~P-!1:1:.~-~~-~~~~-~-~?~~---~!?-~~­
HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
Mary-"Mollie"-Hollie -Jody-JOE­
Biackfoot-Biacklock-Mudd!!! 
We think you're qurte nifty. 
Love, 
Tam and Steve 
(your sweatshirt fan-club!) 
P.S. Please don't choke! 
Hi Jeff CP, Ag 
Happy 21st Birthday John Blasi FLIGHTS 
Round-trip airfares to Miami or 
Fort Lauderdale. Depart Nov. 22 
from Midway (Chicago); return 
Nov. 27 to Midway (Chi.). 
$239 for students, $265 for others. 
Tix sold on first-come, first-serve 
basis, and are non-refundable. 
Anthony Travel 1-800-7DOMERS 
To our little sister DEBBIE ANN MALLOY A belated Happy 14th B-Day! Congrats on tennis & your election! Love, Mary Claire and Colleen 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY DONNA! 
Since chocolate. Yeats and cats are three of your favorites. for your birthday we've arranged a poetry reading of Yeats by three chocolate-covered cats. 
Love, 
BANDIT, BEAD AND GARP 
WHO SAYS THEODORE'S DOESN'T ROCK ?! Come see NO's Classic Rock Band, · PHOENIX-FRIDAY 10-1am! 
HAPPY B-day my OCEAN ! Thanks for every1hing & I do luv ya in sum way . you know who 
R.H.­Doing anything special this weekend? ...Got any ideas?!-M.M. 
Mike F. is a loser!!! 
To Kimberly, Linda, and Sarah: Big thank you for making my visit excellent. "You're simply the best'" Miss you already -Hi to Megan for me this weekend. Love, Colleen 
•• R.E.M. ticket contest •• Do you want to see R.E.M. on Fri. Sept. 29? Then listen to WVFI II When you hear an R.E.M. song, be the first caller and get your name in a drawing to win a pair of free tickets! Drawing on Sept. 27 
••• WVFI AM 640 ••• 
11FLANNER 
1. I'm hungry 2. Who was on Eric's lap? 3. HIT MAN STRIKES I 4.Wher' Mike&Scott?Lifting?lt's 1am! 5.See T. Cruise (G.F.) festival 6.PARIETALS? What time IS it?? 7 .What are they doing in there?JUST TALKING! 8.Geoft­Michelle's here! 9.We're just GOOD friends! 1 0.6-pack & Mad 
'?..~~: ______________________________ _ 
THE MAGNET IS STILL STRONG 
WATCH OUT THE FISH TURNS 
21 TONIGHT---HAPPY 
BIRTHDAY JULIE BEYERS 
CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable atmosphere, daily & weekly specials, pool table, English darts, and great company. 234-3541 
ADOPTION: Loving, professional couple in Midwest wishes to adopt newborn. We offer stable and happy home, financial securrty, welcoming extended family. PLEASE call collect 513-751-6711 after 6:30 pm weekdays. anytime weekends.Attorney involved. 
JUDOGI FOR SALE Size 3. Call Laura. x3887. 
Attention N.D. Students! 
$4.50 Haircuts 
VITO'S BARBERSHOP 1523 Lincolnway West 233-4767 
see CLASS I page 7 

--rhe i \ll-American GrandStanders. 
I 
.. 
'' 
MEN'S 
BOOTS $5995 
from 
EVERYTHING fOR HORSE & RIDER ENGLISH & One milt north of US 20 on Fir Road HOURS: Mon. lhr11 Sal 10-1 55345 Fir Road, Mishawaka, IN 46545 • (219) 259-1188 Sun. 10-5 
,., 
GINA'S PIZZA 684-5930 
FREE DELIVERY 
WITH THIS COUPON 
2640 South 3rd. at Bertrand Road Niles, Michigan 
CHECK OUT OUR PRICES 
CHEESE SAUSAGE PEPPERONI . HAM GROUND BEEF CANADIAN BACON . ANCHOVY GREEN PEPPER ONION 
12 inch $9.00 
SNAKE SKINS ASLOWAS$11995 
LADIES' 
Western &Fashion Boots On Sale 
500 pair On Sale 
Football, Fall Weather, and Western Boots The All-American T earn 
KIDS' 
BOOTS$2895 
from 
PIZZA  
12 lOCh  14 lOCh  12 lOCh  14 1nch  
$5.80  $6.95  BLACK  OLIVE  $6.30  $7.70  
6.00  7.50  GREEN  OLIVE  6.00  7.50  
6.30  7.70  MUSHROOM  6.00  7.50  
6.30  7.70  SAUSAGE AND  MUSHROOM  6. 70  8.00  
6.00  7.50  COMBINATION  6.95  8.70  
6.30  7.70  Sausage. Mushrooms  
6.30  7.70  Green Pepper and On1ons  
-6.00  7.50  EXTRAS  .80  1.00  
6.00  7.50  

OUR FAMOUS "EVERYTHING" 
14 mch All Of The Plua Toeein2s For A Great Taste Treal S12.95 

---~------------------~---------------------~ 
Friday, September 22, 1989 The Observer page 15 

lnterhall 
continued from page 20 
equally prepared, and with their crews of standout rc­tu rnnes, thny look to stake thPi r claim to the 1989 lnterhall championship. 
In the "medium dorm" Leahy League of Alumni, lloly Cross, Cavanaugh, Zahm and Stanford, Alumni looks to re­turn to its winning ways under captain Urban Gillepsis, touting "good athletes, good offense, and a defense that ean take earn of it's self." 
Sorin, Carroll, and St. Edward's, meanwhile, are out to show to the League that they are not to be taken lightly. 
In each league, winning early could hold the key to playing late, and this Sunday's season openers are no exceptions. At 1 PM. Keenan will take on Flanner at Stepan North, while OfT-Campus meets Morrissey at Stepan South. 
At 2 PM, lloly Cross plays Stanford at Stepan North, and Zahm battles Cavanaugh at Stepan South. At 3 PM, Carroll will duel St. Ed's at Stepan 
Women's IH set to start 
By RICHARD MATHURIN ing games, Farley defeated Sports Writer Lyons 8-6 and lloward shut out Knott 16-0. 
Step aside Rocket, it's time "A lot of teams have changed for women's lnterhall flag since last year," said Trish football. Lageman, who runs the 
Every Notre Dame women's Interhall program for Non­dorm will be fielding teams for Varsity Athletics. the seven-game season, each in After the regular season, the 
search of the championship. -best four teams advance to the 
Last year's champion Lewis semi-finals. The two finalists will attempt to defend its title, will then take center-stage at but the Chickens will be severely Notre Dame Stadium, where tested by Breen Phillips, Farley they will vie for the coveted and Pasquerilla West. championship. 
Lewis captain Jill Beth Hayes Games are played on reports that her team is "much Wednesdays at 7 p.m. and 8 more enthusiastic since our p.m. and on Sundays from 5 championship." p.m. until 10 p.m., with a game 
In Wednesday's season-open-beginning every hour. 
KECK'S KLEAR WATER COMPANY 
-~ fJ:. J't-1t{Chinese, Vietnamese and 
_Q;><~ 
Bottled Spring Water 
American Food 
Cooler Rental 
Free Delivery 
For Same Day Service Call 
6329 University Commont 
674-9992
South Bend IN before 1 0:00 AM 
Monday through Friday 
SCHWINN~,
~-~'.v~~ CYCLING ·
\i'f.:···}
'-~~"' and · 
-~. 1 .>' .,,,_ :': FITNESS ; .. 
BAKER'S BIKE SHOP. INC. • Sales • Service • Bike Storage and Packaging 
135 DIXIE WAY SOUTH 3835 LINCOLNWAY EAST SOUTH BEND. IN 466~37 MISH/\W/\KA. IN 46544 (219)277-8B66 (219)259-4562 ROSELAND 

now open in LaFor-tune H0 ll ~ in the Sorin Ro:>m ~ 
$~ 'ta.m.-Cop.m. ~rh Friday <.1nd ~urda,tl.Q) I 
#1 NOTRE DAME "FIGHTING IRISH" vs. #2 MIAMI "HURRICANES" 

THANKSGMNG FOOTBAll WEEKEND NOVEMBER 22·26, 1989 
COMPlETE PACKAGE INCLUDES 
• 
ROUNDTRIP TRANSPORTATION TO AIRPORT 

• 
ROUNDTRIP JET FLIGHT TO MIAMI 

• 
4 NIGHTS AT THE LUXURIOUS SHAWNEE RESORT DIRECTLY ON BEAUTIFUL MIAMI BEACH 

• 
TRANSFERS TO THE ''ORANGE BOWL" 

• 
NOTRE DAME VS. MIAMI GAME TICKET 

• 
GREAT AMERICAN'S TOUR STAFF ON-LOCATION 

• 
ALL TAXES AND GRATUITIES INCLUDED 


TRIP PRICE: $435.00, quad occupancy. $150.00 Deposit to reserve your spot Visa 2nd Mastercard accepted 
Contact the Student Activities Office: Notre Dame 239-7308 315 LaFortune Center Saint Mary's 284-4561 103 Haggar Center 
~--------~---~~~~~-~----­
page 16 
Spotlight 
continued from page 20 
whose drunk driving cost him his life, had his personal rela­
tionships dragged  out  in  the  
open after his death.  
Your  average  man  in  the  

same situation wouldn't have had much more than a para­graph in the Police Beat section, but, being a football player, being a symbol of what is wrong in sports, Toran was dragged through the mud. 
I don't want to excuse Toran or eondone either man's behav­ior. If the pressures, of their sport forced these, and other participants, into their respec­tive behaviors, then there is something wrong with the sys­tem. 
WANTED: USC vs. NO TICKETS 24hr. answering service (213) 487-4161 Home (213)422-2812 
ND TICKETS NEEDED 
.ALL.. 
Games 
Call TODAY for immediate CASH 
1-800-828-8955 
BEFOBEYOU 
HAVE TO BURY 
YOUR P'EAD IN 
BOfJKS••• 
Come See Us! 
• No Appointment! 
• 
7 Deys a Week! 

• 
J"Bl!D!: Tanning -Btzy 4 -Get 4 FBE.Er 


------~---------~ 
The Observer 
If the fame and, in some cases fortune, leads them to be corrupted, then sports should plaee less emphasis on fame and fortune. If they were both only mistakes, although admit­tedly terrible mistakes, so be it. 
What responsibility do play­ers have, simply because they are players? Young kids idolize athletes. Athletes have the power to influence people they don't even know. 
An error in judgement, which is all that it takes when dealing with drugs and alcohol, ruins more than a career. It can ruin a life. It can ruin an image. It can ruin the respect people have for the aecused. 
Pete Hose will never be the same. His disease, his obses­sion, his unbreakable habit is public fodder, to be hashed over again and again. 
Hose will never be the same man he was, Toran has lost his life, Stonebreaker is off the team, but has a brighter future than the others. Did they de­serve what they got? 
The argument has two sides: What people do in their per­sonal life is their own business, and, conversely, these people, with their fame and talent, owe it to their worshipping publies to be model citizens. 
Perhaps if we ease up on our expectations, stars could ease up on their reactions to them. If we allow for human mistakes and understand the problems and pressures, athletes would feel less like the weight of the world was on their shoulders and more like human beings with special talents. 
Vlant to look good? Party hearty-Get good grades Have lots of energy?! 
Natural ·-low cal snacks Vitamins -"when you just can't eat right" Instant, Frozen natural foods Cosmetics Athletic supplements Lots more!! """ ..11 m ~ 11.., 
~~GELA 
~clllll"Wlell1l caltJ.~Lill 
Mlatrl\{.e1t 
us 31 
JUNIPER 
0 
0 
c: 
(;) r 
)> (J) 
IRONWOOD 
(J) 
:X, 
~ 
9YOGI'S 
FROZEN YOGURT 
YOGI'S YOGURT 17911 STATE ROAD 23 across from Martin's Bring in coupon for free topping 
Free Delive 277-4337 

Tourney 
continued from page 20 
this weekend. 
And sophomore middle hitter Jennifer Slosar did not even travel with the team, deciding instead to journey to Michigan and attend her sister's wedding. 
The new starting lineup will include senior captain Kathy Cunningham, senior setter Taryn Collins, who will replace White, junior Tracey Shelton, who will fill in for Slosar, sophomore Chris Choquette and freshmen Alicia Turner and Jessica Fiebelkorn. 

Happy 21st Birthday 
S~auno)[fn lKa1~ 
C!h~(Slbxelk 
All our love, Dad & Mom 


Featuring the Best in College Alternative Rock 
The Midwest's Hottest 
College Rock Group "Bringing You The Best 
from Louisville, Kentucky 
in Live Entertainment" 
Club Shenanigans 0
SEPT. 22 & 23 
THRU.-FRI.-SAT. 
/Thursday is "' 

( LADIES' DAY \ 
Gals Get in for $1 
c8}el}al}Jii3'45 

CLUB 
ATTENTION STUDENTS: 
VIC'S SUBS DELIVERS BEFORE DURING AFTER 
Before the game order During the game, relax AHer the game don't your favorite Vic's sub and enjoy! Let Vic's light the traffic, let early and we'll deliver deliver to your door so Vic's deliver to you. by game time. We take you won 'I miss any of We take orders until orders at 8:30 a.m. the Irish victory. 1 a.m. 
Free Delivery 
113 Dixie 
Way North 271-8113 (Business 31 -Roseland) 

Giant 6 Ft. Party Subs available for tailgating. Order by 6 p.m. Friday. 
1 Mile North of Notre Dame on Emmons Road in Georgetown Shopping Center • 277-1727 

...-----~ -------~--~----------------~----~ 
Friday, September 22, 1989 The Observer page 17 
Irish will face Southern Cal in baseball, tennis next month 
By GREG GUFFEY Assistant Sports Editor 
With 24 freshmen and sophomores on the pre-season roster, the Notre Dame base­ball team expects to have many question marks going into the 1989-90 campaign. 
Those questions will get quick answers in the second Irish Fall Classic Baseball Series when Notre Dame hosts perennial power Southern California for a pair of games at Stanley Covnleski Regional Stadium in South Bend. 
"It will be a good measuring stick for us." Irish coach Pat Murphy said Thursday in a telcc<mference promoting the games. "It will be good for us." 
The games will be played at 7 
p.m. Thursday, Oct. 19 and 
8:30 p.m. Friday. Oct. 20, in conjunction with the Saturday, Oct. 21, football game between the two schools. 
Officials also unveiled plans for a dual tennis match be­tween the men's squads from both USC and Notre Dame. The match will be played at 6 p.m. Friday, Oct. 20, at Eck Tennis Pavilion. The men's and women's cross country teams will run against USC Saturday morning, Oct. 21. 
In last year's Fall Classic, Notre Dame stunned a visiting Miami team by sweeping the two-game set. That victory cat­apulted the Irish baseball pro­gram into the national spot­light. 
They carried that momentum to the spring season and posted a 48-win campaign, the most wins in the history of the pro­gram. 
Notre Dame made the NCAA 
tournament for the first time in 
19 years, losing to Fresno State 
before beating Portland. 
Fresno State then eliminated 
the Irish in the double-elimina­
tion event. 
But several players graduated from that record-setting sea­son, and Murphy will have sev­eral spots to fill on the field. His first chance to see the re­sults of his decisions will come against the Trojans. 
"USC is a great team," Murphy said, "and I'm excited the Trojans are coming. We can get so much out of this game. I just hope they don't come in here and blow us out. They're capable of that. We'll find out what we're all about." 
Murphy doesn't worry about subjecting a young and inexpe­rienced team to a squad with the reputation of usc. 
"There's no substitute for bringing in a national power­house and playing against them and letting your kids see where they've got to do in order to beat a top-ranked team," Murphy said. "We're going to find out just how quickly they can grow up and face the com­petition." 
USC won 41 games last sea­son, finished third in the Six Pac and advanced to the NCAA Regional in Austin, Tex., where it was eliminated early in the tourney. This will be the first meeting between Notre Dame and USC on the baseball field. 

"We're quite grateful for the opportunity that has been ex­tended to us," USC coach Mike Gillespie said. "We all know the history and tradition of the Notre Dame-USC football series. To be a part of this weekend is going to be fun. 
"October is World Series time for the big-league guys, but it's just the start for us. (But) I really think the quality of play for so early in the year will be doggone good. I think the peo­ple who come out to see these games will be entertained, and I think they will be impressed by the level of play they witness." 
The Trojans boast a great deal of depth and are two-deep at most positions. Senior cen­terfielder John Jackson, possi­bly the most talented player on the Trojan squad, will miss the baseball series because he han­dles the receiving duties for the football team. 
Tickets to the baseball games, priced at $5 for box seats, $3 general admission and $2 for students, will go on sale Monday, Oct. 2, at Notre Dame ticket office and Coveleski Stadium box office. A shuttle will run from the cam­pus to the stadium. 
The USC tennis team will make its first trip to the Midwest when it stops at Eck Pavilion. The Irish dropped a match to the Trojans last year on a West Coast roadtrip. 
Tickets for the tennis match, priced at $5 for courtside, $3 general admission and $2 for students, will be available be­ginning Monday, Oct. 2 at the Notre Dame ticket office. 
""THE ITAUAN RISTORANTE-
Open For Dinner 
C8rrv Outs AvaKable. Serving your favorite wile and cocktail Your.._, -•la•rto P8rlal 
Pasta Dishes • Chicken Cacciatore 
• Veal •Manicotti• Lasagna 
•Fettuccine Alfredo • Fish • Shrimp •Pizza • 
Banquet• & Prlw.te Partiee up to 100 South of N.Q Golden Dome 
N.ll ~ ..... ~~ 
~ 
..,,­
E N L D 
u R 
SPECIAL NRBQ
GUEST 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29 JOYCE ACC NOTRE DAME 
Tickets available at JOYCE ACC BOX OFFICE and ALL TICKETMASTER LOCATIONS 
1nclud1ng L.S. AYRES (Un1v. Park and Scottsdale Malls) NIGHTWINDS (Niles. M1)-SUPERSOUNDS (Concord Mall) MUSIC MAGIC (Benton Harbor. M1)-CARSON PIRIE SCOTT (Mich. City. In) 
OR CHARGE BY PHONE 
1-800-284-3030 AtfN11~11n1 PRODUCTION 
F A L L 

~-----,--------------------~-----------------­
Friday, September 22, 1989
The Observer
page 18 
Golfers ready to start fall season 
By PETE CASTELLI courses such as Elcona ·Golf team will face big schools with Sports Writer Course. strong golf programs. "This gives the players a 
The road to victory may chance to play on courses com­The fall schedule consists of prove sweet for the Notre parable to those played during the Indiana Intercollegiate Dame golf team this season. the season," said Thomas. Invitational September 25; the 
The Irish open their season Thomas said that fifth year Glenn Oakes Invitational Monday in Indianapolis at the senior Pat Mohan and junior October 2; the MCC tournament Indiana Intercollegiate Paul Nolta will be the driving October 8-1 0; and the 16th Invitational, and Head Coach force behind the team, along Annual Buckeye Fall Classic George Thomas feels his team with freshman Joe Dennen. October 13-15. is ready. The Invitational hosts Last week, Dennen won the state foes Indiana, Purdue, and Notre Dame Campus Perhaps the biggest of these Ball State. Championship by shooting a tournaments is the MCC tour­
"We should finish in the top 294. Second place went to Paul nament. Last fall, under the three," Thomas said. Mohan who shot a 300, and a leadership of then first year 
The Irish have been practicing tie for third place went to Joe head coach Thomas, the Irish since Sept. 4. Their practice Houston and Chris Dayton who finished first in the tourna­schedule consists of playing the both shot 301. The faculty ment. Thomas was named ~ on-campus Burke Memorial champion was John Gaski. MCC coach of the year. Golf Course Mondays, The Irish schedule is not one Fan support plays an impor­Wednesdays, Thursdays and to be looked at lightly. The tant role in any sport. 
Here is your chance to develop  few You will take on respon­ 
your professional skills by teach­ sibilities and meet challenges  
ing children eager to learn ... in  that would never be offered you  
a country where teachers are  in a starting position in the United  
highly respected. More than 45  States. When you return. you will  
countries are asking for Peace  find that your Peace Corps serv­ 
Corps Volunteers in almost every  ice will open new doors to you.  
field of education: Math and  Educational institutions. interna­ 
Science, Primary. Vocational  tional firms and government  
and Special Education and  agencies value Peace Corps  
Industrial Arts. to name only a  experience.  

25 years of PEACE CORPS The toughest job you'll ever love. 
See our free film Thursday, September 28th, 7 p.m., Center for Social Concern. Interviews, Wednesday & Thursday, October 4th & 5th 
Career & Placement Services 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Non-Varsity Athletics needs officials for soccer and women's football. Applications arc available at the NVA of­fice. Call 239-6100 for more information. 
Irish Insanity will have a free face painting from 9 a.m. to 1 
p.m. Saturday before the Michigan State game near the flag pole on south quad. 
Rugby Club will play its first home game at 2 p.m. Sunday against Bowling Green on Stepan Field. 
Synchronized Swim Club will practice from 4:30 to 6:30 
p.m. Monday and Wednesday at Rockne Pool. Everyone is welcome. 
Rowing Club needs all money for the Pittsburgh trip by today. Bring $40 to practice or to Mary Kissam. 
Alumni Hall defeated Dillon 115-95 Thursday in the first match of the inaugural WVFI Sports Trivia Bowl. Jim Mercurio, Tim Sullivan and Joe Massman make up the Alumni team. 
The NO-Navy football game scheduled for 1990 will be played in Giants Stadium, Navy athletic officials announced Thursday. Earlier reports had indicated that the game might take place in Ireland or another European country. 

N.D./MIAMI GAME 
NOV. 24-26, 1989 
5599 Dou==ncy 
~~~~~re. 
2~30 McKlnley-287-8747 1-800-552-~818 (IND.) 1-800-643-4804 (U.S.A.} 

&otArrnet 
tttke-otAt 
french ~ke.ry 
QllDfuropeaVl Meats 
fC~eeses ~: ·~.o 
c 

~'~ fai/~te ~tC~ics 
Arneri~n VVJ'nes -; lmptJrte~ Beer> · Ple~5e~llahtWi for wui~l o~er.s +requests. 

Fridays of each week, with Mondays and Fridays dedicated to personal instruction if needed. 
Saturday practices consist of playing one of the bigger 
OPEN 
Tua. -Sat. 
5:00pm 
ThsMALABA ExceUent 1ndi.an Cuf.slne 
JttSER.V..lTtONs m:suu:n 1709 SOUTK lEND ,\VI:. (EDl.SON alU.S. 2!) (219) 271-0115 
ASSIGNMENT NEPAL: 
IHI~JFIFY ~1l~fr IB5furtillu<dl~y 
M{~frfr JTo 
~~=~(5)~» 


September 22, 1989 
The Observer e 19 
CROSSWORD 
2:30 p.m.: Foreign Service lecture, "Changing Arab " by Marjorie Ransom, Room 131 Decio Faculty 
3 p.m.: Year of the Family series presents, "The rican Family and Federal Policy: Recipe for Disaster Opportunity for Renaissance?" by Thomas Long, ecutive Counsel and Health Policy Advisor for U.S. 
Senator Daniel Coats of Indiana, Room 122 Hayes-Healy. 
4:30 p.m.: Mathematics presents, "Some recent results on deficient values and deficient functions," by Professor Lo Yang, Chinese Academy of Science, Room 226 Math Building. 
CAMPUS EVENTS 
Friday 
3:30p.m.: SMC Tennis vs. Anderson College. 
5 p.m.: NO Women's Soccer vs. Michigan State. 
7:30 p.m.: Men's Soccer vs. Michigan State. 
7:30, 9:45 p.m.: Film, "Eight Men Out," Annenberg Auditorium, $2. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Yankee Pot Roast Baked Ham Chicken Tettrazini Beef and Bean Burrito Tomato Cup Monterey Bake Law School Grill Deli Bar 
ACROSS 26 What an oneirocritic
1 Jimmy, e.g. 
interprets5 Dutch treat 
29 Echo, e.g. 
9 Actress in "The 33 Western resortMaltese Falcon" 36 Singer Vikki 
141nfielder Tommy 38 Nap 
15--di Rienzi, 39 Lined up Roman orator 40 Victim of a 
16 Kerman dweller scorpion's sting 
17 Busy as-41 Javanese tree 
18 Baltic feeder 42 Bedaze 19 Covered with 43 Make over hoarfrost 
44-0range 20 Meet by chance 
45 Acapulco 22 Billiard stroke souvenir 23 Things to pull up 47-·Creek. 24 Preliminary race district in Belize 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
49"-That Tune" 51 Cio-Cio-San, e.g. 55 Film family 58 Like 1 0 Down 61 Throw out 62 Lampblack 63 Snug as a bug in a rug 64 lola's "La-" 
65 Lord H1gh Everything ­("The Mikado") 
66 An attendant on Cleopatra 67 Poker hand 68 Stack role 
69 Howard and Maynard 
DOWN 
1 Blackens 
2 Confute 
3 Tarkington's "In the--" 
4 Give way to tears 
5 Detroit suburb 
6 Fuddy-duddy 
7 City in S France 
a Paludous place 
9 Corrigan was one 


10 Promoting, in a 
way 11 Berets' cousins 12 Greenbacks 13 Rib 21 Membrane of a 
bird's beak 25 Produce interest 27 Seaport in NW 
Israel 28 Abigails 30 --out (raze) 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
~OO'R£ 't4~S\It-lG 'bJR 1\t-'\E. . 
-nlE lt"~t.R IS GOI\IIG \0 KNOW ~OJ OIDN'r S?tl'lD AA'i iiMt-oo nus 1~SK1 
C.Oil.t.CT\Ot-.1. 
WILBUR AND WENDEL 
31 Joie de vivre 32 Take five 33 Scottish goblet 34 "Vissi d' -," 
Puccini aria 35 Rush follower 37 Grub 40 Utah city 44 Freshly 46 Hits hard 48 Marbles 
50 W German city 
52 Grudge 
53 Synagogue 
cantor 
54 Bottomless gulf 
55 Balto-Siav 
56 Maintain 
57 Terrible 
59 Pasteur's birthplace 60 Play by Rattigan 
COMICS 
BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
'fiER£ 5\JP~D CA!>l '{olJ 
1t> ~p,~ 50 Till Wl-lf..T 
I~SECT"S! 'fO\l'l.l kiNO IT IS~ 
13£ Ll)c.K'i 1tl S:.RAPE If 
H~t.~£ ANY.' OfF. 
JAY HOSLER 



By CHARLES POLLARD 
Sports Writer 
The football team isn't the only Notre Dame squad hosting Michigan State this weekend. 
The Irish soccer team plays the Spartans on Friday night and Midwestern Collegiate Conference opponent Marquette on Sunday afternoon. 
After playing live of their first six games on the road, the Irish eagerly anticipate two games in the friendly confines of Krause Stadium. 
"Friendly" may understate the case. 
The Irish have never lost at Krause Stadium since its dedi­cation two years ago, bringing a 19-0-0 Krause record heading into the weekend. 
Junior midfielder Tom 
Connaghan claims that the 
The Observer I File Photo 
Mitch Kern (sliding) and the Notre Dame soccer team will look to con­tinue their amazing run of success at Krause Stadium this weekend when the Irish host Michigan State and Marquette. 
Volleyball team off to LSU Tourney 
By MOLLY MAHONEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Survival of the fittest. 
It's time for the Notre Dame volleyball team to kill or be killed. 
The Irish are off to a disap­pointing 1-6 start and going into tonight's Louisiana State University Tournament, they are ready to claim their second victim. 
"We need to do more than just put a couple of good plays together," said Irish head coach Art Lambert. "We need to go out there on the offensive, get a team down and finish them off. 
"The only way to start playing confidently is to start beating some people, and we can do that if we sustain some of the good things I've seen this week." 
The Irish have spent the week trying to rebound from last week's shellackings at the hands of Western Michigan, Pittsburgh and Pacific, but they will definitely need to rekindle their killer instinct if they are to come out on top this week­end. 
Notre Dame travels to Baton Houge, La. tonight to face Houston. The squad also will have to deal with Oklahoma and LSU before it heads back to South Bend. 
"Houston is ranked in the 
southern region, Oklahoma has 
been ranked from 16th to 20th 
in preseason polls and LSU has 
been listed at 15th or 16th in 
the polls," Lambert said. "So 
none of these games is going to 
be a walk through the park." 
Lambert will have more to 
worry about than his puissant 
opponents this weekend, 
though, as two key members of 
his squad will see little if no 
playing time in Notre Dame's 
third tournament of the season. 
Junior setter Amy White, who 
J.... .... ,.. ... ,..,..~ • ...-.... ..J .... ,...,...,_+; .... ,.. .......... , r, ... 
the Irish, has been hampered by a muscle pull in the upper thigh and may only see limited action 
see TOURNEY I page 16 
IH football to begin this weekend 
By DAVID DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 
The 1989 men's Interhall football season kicks off this Sunday, with key matches in each division. 
Two-time defending champ Dillon will be tested by Pars1~ghian League rival Grace, while Hockne League foes Fisher and Pangborn will dash. Stanford, last year's runner-up, faces lloly Cross in a Leahy League tilt. 
Dillon and Stanford battled their way through the 1988 playoffs. and met in the cham­pionship game. In the mud and rain, neither team could score during regulation, but Dillon came out on top, thanks to a field goal in sudden death overtime. 
Although both dorms promise teams of comparable skill and size, their competition for the 1989 men's Interhall football title will be stiff. 
In the "Big Dorm" Parseghian League, home of Dillon, Grace, Flanner, Keenan, Morrissey and Off-Campus, the contests promise to be of top quality. 
Off-Campus, after falling to Dillon in the first round of last year's playoffs, looks to be especially strong, promising its own brand of "head-crushing 
football," with the likes of tail-
thrilling overtime win over Indiana in 1987 acted as a spark to future success at Krause Stadium. 
"The Indiana game was a big moment for us," says 
back Dave Cane, strong safety Pete Walsh, and linebackers Bill Angrick and Brian Friessen. 
However, the Crime would be ill-advised to ignore Keenan, which boasts its "strongest and biggest team in recent years," according to captain Paul Stephan. "The Keenan backfield is one to watch." 
In the words of Flanner cap­tain Bob Hawkins, the division will feature "hard fought bat­tles that will be won in the trenches," and Flanner is not about to let itself be over­looked. 
Grace and Morrissey are 
see INTERHALL I page 15 
Connaghan, "It was a great game and ever since then it has been easy to play ... to win at home." 
Coincidentally, the Krause Stadium dedication game pitted the Irish against this evening's opponent, Michigan State. Surely the Spartans remember that game, a 4-1 Irish victory, as well as last year's drubbing in their home stadium. 
The Irish won that game 5-0 in what Irish coach Dennis Grace said was a down game for the Spartans. 
Michigan State returns eight of 11 starters. 
"I will be surprised if they are not ready and fired up to play the Irish," warns Grace. 
Sunday's game against Marquette is a rematch of last Sunday's 1-0 Irish victory. Connaghan scored the game's only goal three minutes before the final whistle. That game is undoubtedly fresh in the minds of the Warriors. 
Grace realizes that the Warriors feel they have a score 
Is spotlight too glaring for star athletes? 
In these days of sky-high salaries and multi-sport profes­sionals, steroids and pennant races, trades and deadlines, it becomes apparent that, deep in the heart of your sports pages, are the stories you don't want to hear. 
Bias and Boggs, Stonebreaker and Brooks, Matuszak and Toran, Johnson and Hose and many more. It gets to the point where the bad news outweighs the good, that sports aren't just for fun anymore. They're for business, they're for pride, they're for keeps. 
Theresa Kelly 
. 
Sports Editor 
11­
Too often, sports have become a matter of life or death, and if you read it in the papers, it too often means that death won. 
The question arises as to how much we hold these people responsible, and how high a pedestal on which we place them. Do they have a responsibility to the fans, for being stars? Do they owe us anything? Or are their transgressions blown way out of proportion, simply because they are big­ger, stronger, faster than the rest of us? 
Take the cases of Mike Stonebreaker and Stacey Toran, for instance. A Notre Dame student who is accused of drunk driving has the blessings of anonymity, as long as he or she is not a member of the Monogram Club. 
It's as if the rights of students are protected, maybe even overprotected, but similar rights of football players in this instance are nonexistent. 
Stonebreaker's accident "was in every newspaper in the country, his injury analyzed and his prospects predicted. One student can kill another, driving drunk on Saint Mary's Hoad, and remain anonymous. Stonebreaker didn't have that luxury, although, in the eyes of the law, his crime was less serious. 
Stacey Toran, a former Notre Dame football captain 
see SPOTLIGHT I page 16 

Know what's new on campus every day 
Subscribe to The Observer 
For just $25 a semester or $40 a year, you can keep up with the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community on a daily basis. 
Send checks to: 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Here's what subscribers are saying: 
"-We all enjoy reading The Observer throughout the school year. No other communication from the University keeps us as informed on a· real current basis." 
ACCalm Rl)mll'l nightlife -Jr1 :::-=.,.-_ ­SP.CIALI 1188 Footbllll Section _]l~ §;'§,;.; 
~e~ 
National Champions! 



