
--~ -~------------------------------------------------------------------------..--~--------~----~--------~~~----~----------~ 

VOL. XXIII NO. 2 TUESDAY, AUGUST 29, 1989 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S --':. 
Outbreak feared 
Measles revaccination advised 
By SARA MARLEY Senior Staff Reporter 
Fears that a measles out­break similar to those in Chicago and Lake County in northwestern Indiana have health officials urging students to ensure they are protected adequately. 
St. Joseph County Health Officer Dr. George Plain advises revaccination for anyone who received the shot before his first birthday. 
"Immunizations done before the first birthday have no last­ing effect. The immune system is too poorly developed to re­spond to the vaccination," Plain said. 
"It is a real concern with epi­demic areas closer to us. There have been epidemic areas for several years, but this time it is much closer to home," said Carol Seager, director of University Health Services at the University of Notre Dame. 
Chicago authorities began a door-to-door immunization project after deaths from the disease in the past several weeks. 
Nearly 10 percent of the freshman class of 1988-89 came from Illinois, the highest number from any state. Statistics are not yet available for this freshman class. 
Eight percent of the freshmen in 1988 came from Indiana, which ranked second. Both states traditionally rank among the top five home states of Notre Dame students. 
Saint Mary's College sent a letter to all students after classes ended last spring urg­ing them to check on their vac­cination status before return­ing to school, according to 
see SHOTS I page 4 


The Observer/E.G. Bailey New Beginnings 
O~er 1800 men and women of the Class of 1993 arrived on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses th1s past weekend. Cavanaugh Hall freshman Tyler Moore, left, is assisted in checking in by juniors Mike Larson and Mike Clark. · 
Malloy helps plan for a Notre Dame in Australia 
By JOHN O'BRIEN Senior Staff Reporter 
While many students used the past summer to vacation and to prepare for college, University President Father Edward Malloy spent much of the sum­mer attending to important matters. 
Besides addressing com­mencement ceremonies at vari­ous institutions and speaking with alumni, Malloy also con­tinued work on revising a Vatican document and planning the University of Notre Dame­Australia. 
Malloy, along with University Provost Timothy O'Meara and Executive Vice-President William Beauchamp, travelled to Australia from June 27 to July 16 to continue planning of the new university. 
According to Roland Smith, executive assistant to the pres­ident, Malloy and O'Meara are serving on the new university's planning board and Beauchamp is serving as a consultant. 
"They are planning to have the university established by 1992, but I'm not sure how re­alistic that is," Smith said. "The timetable is the key ques­tion," he added. 
When established, the University of Notre Dame­Australia will become Australia's first private univer­sity, a fact which is causing lo­cal problems in Australia, Smith said. 
In late June, Malloy received the fourth draft of the docu­ment, "The Schema on Catholic Higher Education," which was first proposed in 1985 by the Vatican Congregation for Catholic Education. 
In May, Malloy was elected as one of three North American members of a 15-member commission created by a world congress of Catholic educators. The commission was created in order to assist in revising the document. 
According to Malloy, the doc­ument is "supposed to address the question of the role of Catholic higher education, the relationship between the insti­tutions and the local bishop and national groups of bishops, the role of various component parts like the theology depart­ment, or the way that science 
ND sophomore dies in accident 
to walk to a nearby farm
By MICHELLE DALL 
house for assistance.
Senior Staff Reporter 
Saunders was transported 
by ambulance to the 

Stephen B. Saunders, a Intensive Care Unit at sophomore-to-be at Notre University Hospitals in Iowa Dame, died on July 25 from City, approximately 70 miles injuries sustained in a from the scene of the acci­single-vehicle automobile dent. accident one week earlier. 
Saunders, 19, was a resi­dent of Fort Madison, Iowa. He was driving through the rain on a winding, asphalt road four miles north of Fort Madison in the early morning hours of July 18 when his car skidded off the unmarked pavement. 
The vehicle cartwheeled several times, and both Saunders and his passenger, a high school classmate, were thrown from the car. Neither was wearing a seat belt. 
Saunders received massive 
head injuries upon impact. 
The passenger escaped seri­
ous injury, suffering only a 
sprained ankle, and was able who visited him in the hospi­tal. "When I got to the hos­pital," Roach said, "the doctors had Steve listening to the Notre Dame Glee Club's 'Shake Down the Thunder' tape on a headset; they were trying to stimulate his brain. We all thought he was going to pull through; we were joking around, telling him about the Cubs." 


Soon after the accident, 

·however, x-rays indicated the stem of Saunders' brain had received "tremendous damage," according to Father Thomas King, rector of Zahm Hall, where Saunders resided at Notre Dame. Saunders died a week later after being pronounced brain dead. 
"Steve Saunders was just a wonderful. wonderful kid," said King. He was a tremendous student and al­ways available to pitch in and help out around the 
see SAUNDERS I page 7 
and technology are ap­proached." 
Malloy's review of the April meeting of the congress ap• peared in the June 10 issue of the Catholic weekly, America. In the review, Malloy wrote that he expected the new draft to be substantially changed as a re­sult of the April meeting. 
Among those recommenda­tions were proposals that the document be more "positive, in­spirational and future-ori­ented," and that the "full au­tonomy" and "freedom of re­search and teaching" of Catholic universities be clearly affirmed. 
Malloy will now review the new draft and then return to Rome in September to meet with the congregation. The congregation hopes to consider a fmal draft of the document in October. 
The congregation will then present the document to Pope John Paul II, who is ultimately expected to issue the document as an "apostolic constitution", a form of papal lawmaking. 
On August 24, Malloy was named to yet another commit­tee as Indiana Governor Evan Bayh chose him to serve on the steering committee of the Governor's Committee for a Drug Free· Indiana. 
Elkhart, Ind. Mayor James Perron and 12 others will join Malloy in determining how the commission will function. 
The beginning of the summer 
see MALLOY I page 7 

New provost and faculty positions announced at ND 
By SARA MARLEY Senior Staff Reporter 
Summer brought a new asso­ciate provost to the University of Notre Dame as well as sev­eral faculty promotions and four appointments to endowed chairs. 
Eileen Kolman assumed the position in the provost's office vacated by Sister John Miriam Jones, who returned to her re­ligious community as spiritual director. 
Kolman was associate aca­demic dean and coordinator of institutional planning at the College of Mount St. Joseph, Cincinnati, before coming to the University on August 1. 
Jennifer Warlick, associate professor of economics, was named associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters. 
Dean Michael Loux of the College of Arts and Letters has returned from his leave. Nathan' Hatch, formerly acting dean of Arts and Letters, has taken over as Vice President of Advanced Studies. He replaces Robert Gordon, who retired last spring. 
Appointed to endowed chairs were: William Gray, Massman professor of civil engineering; Ruey-wen Liu, Frank Freimann professor of electrical and computer engineering; Thomas Mueller, Roth-Gibson professor of aerospace engineering; and Arvind Varma, Arthur J. Schmitt professor of chemical engineering. 
Richard Jensen was promoted to professor of biology at Saint Mary's College. 
Dennis Moore, formerly as­sistant director of the Office of Public Relations and Information, has been named associated director of the same office. 
Newly named full professors at Notre Dame, previously as­sociate professors, are: Panos Antsaklis, electrical and com­puter engineering; Joseph 
see FACULTY I page 6 

..·-------------------~-------~--~-~-­
Tuesday, August 29, 1989 
WORLD BRIEFS 

The peace conference on Cambodia began its final session Monday in Paris with less than three days to resolve deep­seated differences that have frustrated nearly a month of negotia­tions. French Foreign Minister Roland Dumas opened the session and urged the 19 national delegations to accept compromise in the­live major areas of disagreement. The first conference of all par­ties involved in Cambodia had raised hopes when it began in late 
July, with all 19 foreign ministers attending and the chairmanship shared by France and Indonesia. On Monday . however, Eduard Shevardnadze and Qian Quichen, foreign ministers of the Soviet Union and China, were absent because of lack of progress at the conference. their governments announced. Washington said Secretary of State James Baker also chose not to return because no comprehensive solution was in sight. The conference was in­tended to lay the groundwork for lasting peace in Cambodia after two decades of war. 
A British soldier discovered a bomb planted beneath his car Monday in Hanover, West Germany. The explosive was safely diffused, officials said. Police said the bomb was similar to ones used by the Irish Republican Army. It was at least the third at­tempted bombing at a British military post in northern Germany this summer. One British soldier was killed last month in a car bomb that the IRA claimed responsibility for. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 

Interested in buying "Herbie," the original 1964 Volkswagen from the Disney "Love Bug" series? How about Elvis Presley's 1971 Cadillac Sedan DeVille? Or a 1939 Rolls-Royce Silver Wraith limousine once owned by Juan and Evita Person, postwar leaders of Argentina? These cars and more will be on the auction block this weekend in Auburn at the 19th annual Kruse in­ternational "World's Largest Collector Car Auction." Between Aug. 31 and Sept. 5, more than 5,000 cars are expected to net more than $100 million. As many as 150,000 spectators will ar­rive to see the cars of the stars. 
INDIANA BRIEFS 

A South Bend woman could face the death penalty 
if convicted of the murder of her 7-year-old daughter. St. Joseph County Prosecutor Michael Barnes filed a death penalty murder charge Monday against Sharon Bright, 35. She was arrested Saturday after her daughter Jennifer was found dead in a bed­room of the family's south side home. A 4-year-old daughter, Heather, also was in the house but had no visible injuries, police said. Barnes claimed Bright pinched the nostrils of the 7 -year-old and "put a Saran Wrap-type material over her nose and mouth 
and asphyxiated her." Bright also faces an attempted murder charge. It alleges that Bright attempted to kill the 4-year-old by placing plastic wrap around the nose and mouth of the child, said the prosecutor. "We are alleging that the little girl got too feisty and she {Bright} did not complete the action which would have led to her death," Barnes said. Documents filed with the charges show that Heather told police that "Mommy put a bag on me and it was real, real hard." The murder of a child under 12 years of age is one of the specific reasons for which the death penalty can be sought under Indiana law, Barnes said. 
Medicare will begin paying for flu shots as a part of a demonstration project in Indiana, Tennessee, Virginia and Louisiana, according to an announcement by Blue CrossBlue Shield of Indiana. The project will allow Medicare to pay for one flu shot per year for 684,000 Hoosiers starting Sept. 1. Medicare laws specifically forbid coverage for immunizations, but Congress and federal officials want to test the cost-effectiveness of making flu shots a covered service of the·Medicare program. Congress has authorized $25 million per year for the study. Medicare currently pays out millions of dollars per year for treatment of people who come down with the flu and if the study indicates immunizations reduce the number of health-related complication caused by the illness, the flu shots could become a routine Medicare benefit. 
Negotiations between Indiana bell Telephone Co. 
and a union representing 4,200 striking workers were recessed Monday evening and little progress was made after the union pre­sented its latest counter-proposal, bell officials said. "Union nego­tiators contacted the company negotiator this morning and had heightened demands beyond where we left things last night," Bell spokesman Dennis McCabe said Monday. Mter weekend talks, bell officials had said they believed they were nearing a settlement with the Communication Workers of America, who have been on strike against Indiana Bell and other Ameritech subsidiaries since Aug. 12. 
WEATHER 

Welcome back 
Variable cloudiness and warm Tuesday with a 50 percent chance of thunderstorms. Highs in the lower 80s. Partly cloudy and mild Tuesday night. Lows from the middle to upper 60s. Partly cloudy and warm Wednesday. High in the middle 80s. 
Information compiled from Observer wires and Observer staff reports. 
At beginning or end, ND is a worthwhile experience 

·cather ye rosebuds while ye may. " 
This year is the beginning of the end for every student at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Eight and a half months from now. freshmen will have moved up and seniors wilfhave moved on. 
It's funny that college students spend more time outside class than in it. It doesn't make sense. Students go to school for four years to spend about a week in the classroom. 
Fortunately, there's more to college life than lectures and labs five days a week and exams at the semester's end. There are parties, pep rallies and football games. There are rainy days and sunny days. There are Mondays and Fridays. There are mistakes to make and roadtrips to take. Every day is an opportunity to correct yesterday's mistakes. 
College is where one learns how to live. The knowledge that life requires doesn't come from a textbook; it comes from living --and learning. 
A scholar's ability to handle success is tem­pered by his experience with failure. As anyone who witnessed the Notre Dame-Miami game last year can attest, victory is never sweeter than when it follows a bitter loss. 
Along the way, however, doubt can confound the plans. The shadow of uncertainty follows freshmen to college. It will fade as the freshmen become seniors, but comes back by graduation. 
Mter graduation, life won't be as nice as it was under the Dome. There are no idyllic quad­rangles ,in the asphalt jungle. The confines sud­denly aren't as friendly anymore. 
Knowing this makes leaving very hard. The parting of friends at commencement is sad be­
~fter graduation, life won't be as nice as it was under the Dome.' 
Regis Coccia 
Managing Eidllar 

cause it's an end. But it's also the beginning of a new phase, a new life. Life goes on; the sun will set and rise just as it always has. 
If faith and determination can help freshmen through the next four years, then the same ap­proach will get seniors through the next 40. Didn't that get them to this point? 
Perhaps that's why parents believe in investing $50,000 in their son's or daughter's future. College isn't a waste of time; it's a way to get more out of time. 
Everyone has heard that college years pass quickly. That's true. Four years is only a frac­tion of the average lifetime. 
Days only come one at a time. It's pointless to try to live otherwise. So, one should be care­ful to enjoy each day and make it one to remem­ber. 
Appreciate the walk down the primrose path, and gather the rosebuds while they're still in bloom. But watch out for the thorns. 
OF INTEREST 

Seniors who have not yet signed-up for Senior Portraits should do so in North or South dining halls this week at either lunch or dinner, or in the Dome Yearbook office this Thursday and Friday between 3 and 5 p.m. Sittings will begin Monday, September 3, in Room 108 LaFortune. 
The Men's Glee Club will be holding auditions today from 4:15 to 7:15 pm. Please sign up for an interview and audition in 102 Crowley Hall. 
The Junior Class Picnic is today at Holy Cross Field from 5 to 7 p.m. 
Design Editor .............. Kathy Gliwa Design Asaitant ...... Cheever Griffin Typesetter Bernard Brenninkmeyer

-Ih-e-Obse.-~~r--­
---. ----~~Y:..._, --·--News Editor ............ Christine Walsh News Copy Editor.... Matt Gallagher sr.orts Copy Editor Steve Megargee
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 V ewpoint Copy Editor Dave Bruner Viewpoint Layout......... Kathy Gliwa Accent Editor .......... Colleen Cronin 
{219) 239-7471 
Accent Copy Editor Robyn Simmons Accent Designer ........ Ahson Cocks Typists .......... Janet Herold 
. . . . . . .. .. .. .. .. . ....... Sara Mal1ey 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except 
No· Day· Editoi....... ~r~a~c~~f~~~:;

during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur­
Photographer................ Eric Bailey Ads Designer ....... Shannon Roach

chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by wnting The Observer. The Observer is a member of The Assoc1ated Press. All reproductiOn rights are reserved. 
Here's what our satisfied subscribers are saying about us: 
.~~we all enjoy reading The Observer throughout the school year. No other communication from the University keeps us as informed on a real current basis.~~ 
• 'The Observer keeps our family in St. Louis in touch with the daily world that our son is in on campus. It was impressive to see the eagerness with which ND students read The Observer at lunch.~~ 
• 

11You continue to publish an excellent paper. As one who comes to 
campus twice a year to teach, it keeps me in touch with my audience.~~ 
•liThe Observer was a wonderful addition to our family last year and it kept us up-to-date on all the exciting events on campus. Thanks for doing such a fine job!11 
.~~we love the sports coverage!" 
Keep up with the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 
community with an Observer subscription. 
For $25 per semester or $40 per year you can be up-to-date on all the current news, sports, and issues affecting the Notre Dame and Saint Maryls communities. Send a check to The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
Dame, Indiana, 46556. 



Tuesday, August29, 1989 
Construction gives campus a new look 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
The foundation for the 

Senior Staff Reporter Institute was
Hesburgh laid and the basement walls have 
Construction around campus been poured, according to is progressing on schedule and Dedrick. in some cases ahead of sched­Two floors in the new ROTC ule. building have been poured and 
Donald Dedrick, director of presently the attic floor is being the physical plant, said the top poured, said Dedrick. Some ex­priority right now is the com­tenor masonry work has be­pletion of the new wing of gun. This building is being built Nieuwland Science Hall in time east of Juniper Road. for classes next week. He said he would like classes to be con­The band building, located ducted in the building with next to the ROTC building, is al­minimal disruptions. most enclosed, said Dedrick. 
The construction of the new He said that the construction is $33 million DeBartolo quad, ahead of schedule. A storm band building and ROTC build­sewer is being installed under ing are underway, and interior Juniper Road that will take the restoration is taking place in rain water from the new quad Sacred Heart Church. to the St. Joseph's Lake. The 
Construction crews are area in front of the Computing working on the underground Center/ Mathematics Building utilities for the new DeBartolo was excavated to enable the quad located between Notre construction of this tunnel. Dame Avenue and the stadium. Interior refurbishing contin­
ues in Sacred Heart Church, 
The steam tunnel to the said Dedrick. The pews have Hesburgh Institute for 'been removed and scaffolding International Peace Studies is is in place inside. A new lighting under construction. Dedrick and sound system will· be in­said the tunnel will eventually stalled. Dedrick added that the serve the new Edward J. church will not be used this DeBartolo Classroom Facility year. and any other buildings in the quad. Additional construction lies in 
the University's future. Work 
A tunnel containing storm on the Edward J. DeBartolo and sanitary sewers, electric, Classroom Facility will begin telephone and computer capa­next year, Dedrick said. bilities was completed and Also coming next year is the sealed. Fischer Graduate Student 
Crews are now restoring the Residence, consisting of gradu­curbs and pavement, which will ate apartments and a commu­be finished in time for the first nity center to be built north home football game on Sept. and east of the O'Hara-Grace 22, said Dedrick. Graduate Residences. 
-----~----------------------~--------------------------------------------~ 

By JOHN O'BRIEN Senior Staff Reporter For the second year in a row, no Notre Dame freshmen are  keep Holy Cross Hall open and only a slight increase in class size.  either part or all of their year in study lounges in Flanner, Grace, Pasquerilla East, and P!tsquerilla West.  
being housed in temporary housing, according to the Office of Student Residences. Last year was the first year in 17 years that freshmen were  Reinebold could not be reached for comment, but a spokesman for the Office of Student Residences confirmed that no freshmen are· living in  According to Minni Owens, coordinator of housing for Saint Mary's College, 9 fresh­men are being housed in tempo­rary housing.  
not  forced  into  temporary  study lounges.  "The  rooms  that these stu•  
housing in study lounges. Last year, Director of Student Residences Evelyn Reinebold at­tributed this to the decision to  In 1987-88, the last year to have freshmen in temporary housing, 111 freshmen spent  dents are in, however," said Owens, "were built especially for temporary housing and are ac­tually quite nice."  






,_________________ 
Tuesday, August29, 1989

page 4 The Observer 
Indiana schools face immunization decision 

is currently looking for enthusiastic students to fill the 
Lake County, with no confirmed or suspected cases in Porter 
Auoclated Press 

following positions: 



MISHAWAKA FURNITURE ' 

Impress 


CORP. !~ 

We've got the furniture for your room or apartment *Chairs-your choice $75.00 *Love seats-$175.00 *Tables -$50.00 *Lamps and chests 
402 Lincoln way West (2 blocks east of the 100 Center , in Mishawaka) / Open every night until8:30 Saturday & Sunday until 5:30 259-5494
............•.............~.~~~~..................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-~~~ 
• • & • ,_ • • • • a 4 .... .., L .4 ..... ' 6 a .. • ·,._ .... .I; 8 •• -... .;. i ~ I t' tli 6. -.,. '4, •. Ai •.' "~~~ •, ~" :'\ :-. ,"'"• ... !\ ... ;. 
HAMMOND, Ind. --Health workers will begin vaccinating Lake County schoolchildren against measles as soon as the Indiana Department of Health chooses which school to hit first, officials said Monday. 
Nick Doffin, Lake County Health Department administra­tive assistant, said his office is working with state health offi­cials to identify which schools have the greatest need. 
"They need to know how many kids are in each school and the past history of each school," he said. 
He could not estimate when the program would begin. 
Because of the number of confirmed cases in Lake County, students there will be immunized before those in Porter County. To date, 43 cases have been confirmed in 

Shots 
continued from page 1 Gloria Chelminiak, director of health services. The letter reflected the rec­ommendations of the American College Health Service, advising anyone vaccinated prior to 1980 to be revaccinated. The University expects to is­sue a statement in September concerning measles vaccina­tion: They are awaiting a re­port by the Centers for Disease Control expected in mid­September. "We anticipate that recom­mendation will be that everyone who has not had his second MMR (measles, mumps and rubella vaccination) have a sec­ond one," Seager said. "Students can always get the injection, it is a question of whether it will be free or not," Seager said. 
~ 


5tC ~~~~ I 
~\~ 
D(IV£ 
SEE DICk Dti1D 
Don't drink and drive 
A public service message from The Observer 
County, according to health of­
ficials. 

An official with the Indiana Board of Health was optimistic that the program would start soon. 
"We're hoping to begin later this week," said spokesman David McCarty, "but it's too early to make a prediction." 
Local health departments have expanded their clinic hours to handle the number of people coming in with pre­kindergarten children. 
Health workers at the county level and in the three local of­fice -in Hammond, East Chicago and Gary -adminis­tered mea~es vaccines to about 1 ,400 people over the weekend in a door-to-door campaign to · residents of low-income hous­ing projects, and at their of­fices. 
Vaccines h~ve become scarce due to the recent outbreaks. The Public Heath Service will only provide· free vaccinations to the campus after cases have been diagnosed. 
The vaccine alone costs $20, excluding the cost of labor and supplies. 
University Health Services has offered free flu shots in the past, but those cost only $4 or $5 per shot, Seager said. 
Last November everyone who traveled to the Southern California football game in Los Angeles was immunized by the county health department be­fore the trip after an outbreak of the disease there. 
Students can receive free vac­cines at the Health Department in the County-City Building in South Bend provided they were immunized before their first birthday, accordinJ;t to Plain. 
News:  Photography:  
Copy Editors (2)  Campus Photographers  
Business PageCopy Editors (2)  •Contact Eric Bailey, 239-5303 or  
Reporters  283-1467  

•Contact Matt Gallagher, 239-5303 Graphics: 
or 283-1961 Sports: Sports Writers 

•Contact Theresa Kelly, 239-5303 or 283-3714 
Accent: Copy Editors Accent Writers 

•Contact John Blasi, 239-5303 or 283-3586 
Viewpoint: Columnists 

•Contact Dave Bruner, 239-5303 or 277-5843 
Production: Design Assistants Accent Designers Special Section Design Staff 
•Contact Alison Cocks, 239-5303 or 283-4059 
Systems: Typesetters 

•Contact Mark Derwent, 239-5303 or 283-3008 
NOTRE DAME Wallpaper and Team Border IN STOCK 
Wallpaper, to gO 
f 

W H E R E ~~!_A~ T I F U l R 0 0 M S 8 E G I N " 
5776 Grape Road -Mishawaka Across from Phar-Mor INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 221-9325 
Computer Graphics 
•Contact Laura Stanton, 239-5303 
or 283-3887 Cartoonists 
•Contact Marga Bruns, 239-5303 or 283-3694 Advertising: 
Advertising Representatives Advertising Clerk 
•Contact Molly Killen, 239-5303 or 283-3631 
Advertising Design: Ad Designers 
•Contact Shannon Roach, 239-5303 or 283-2469 
Office Staff: Typists Day Editors 
•Contact Janet Herold, 239-5303 or 283-4164 
Drivers: AP Courier 
•Contact Regis Coccia, 239-5303 or 283-1527 


~---------------------------------~-----------------~-----------------------------~----------------------~~--------------­
Tuesday, August29, 1989 The Observer 
a e 5 

· 
• Saxony Bath Rug Set, 19.99..------,~~ 
• 
Vinyl Shower Liners, $6 

• 
Plain Hem Sheets, 6.99 

• 
Bed Pillows, 4.99 

•
Throw Blankets, $15 


CATCH THE TEAM SPIRIT! NOTRE DAME APPAREL FOR THE ENTIRE FAMILY You"ll be rooting for your favorite college athletic team in style. JCPenney has one of the most complete collections of Notre Dame Team Apparel in the area. Check us out! 
Smog found on Neptune 
Associated Press 
PASADENA, Calif. Neptune's icy volcanic moon Triton is the coldest body ever measured in the solar system, NASA said Monday. and the planet itself has something in common with Los Angeles: smog. 
The Voyager 2 space probe also discovered auroras vaguely like Earth's northern lights on Neptune and Triton, scientists said. 
Looking backward 3.2 million miles, Voyager 2 on Monday took a series of family por­traits of Neptune and Triton, appearing as crescents as they were backlighted by the sun. 
Earlier, Voyager 2's ultravio-

OPENING NIGHT WED. 30TH 9p.m. 
FREE GIVEAWAYS START THE YEAR ALL NIGHT LONG OFF RIGHT!!! 
IllALUMNI ~~:=%:"1"t."!®?$.'f!IIIA~:~=»~ 



1~Cl.Ui' 
DO YOU FEEL LUCKY?!! 
• Luxury Bath Towels, 3.99 
let detector determined that Triton's surface temperature is 400 degrees below zero Fahrenheit, making the moon "the coldest body we have seen in the solar system," said Roger Yelle of the University of Arizona. 
Scientists believe Pluto and its moon Charon are the second­coldest bodies in the solar sys­tem. 
In another finding, the best close-up photo yet of another moon, 1989 Nl, showed that Neptune's second-largest moon has a huge crater about half as wide as the lumpy-looking, 240­mile-wide satellite. 
That indicates that a big me­teorite once smacked into 1989 N1, one of six moons discov­erect since June by Voyager, ac­cording to Bradford Smith, the leader of Voyager's photo­graphic imaging team. 
Voyager also sent back heat measurements to help scientists find liquid lakes or oceans on Triton, but the moon almost certainly is too cold to have them, said Torrence Johnson, a scientist at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Jet Propulsion Laboratory here. 
Johnson defended the theory, advanced by other scientists Sunday, that Triton has active volcanoes that erupt nitrogen ice particles 20 miles skyward. "It isn't a crazy idea," he said. 

Student government seeks balance in goals 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER Senior Staff Reporter 
The main goal of student government for the 1989-90 school year will be to provide services to students while pro­moting intellectual life on cam­pus. 
Balancing intellectual life and services is the primary purpose of student government, and the current student government will strive to provide both of these things for students, ac­cording to Student Body President Matt Breslin. 
"Our goal is to make sure there is a balance of services from student government, along with a healthy intellectual life," said Breslin. "We plan to continue activities such as the Iceberg Debates, while hope­fully improving some services." 
One improvement is the Blue and Gold Pages, which is a di­rectory of information for nearly anything imaginable, de­signed for students. The Blue and Gold Pages will have in­formation like phone numbers of important places on campus, general information on the campus, and will also provide information on off-campus lo­cales. 
"A guide like this is good, especially for freshmen who have questions about things they're not quite sure about," said Breslin. 
Student government plans to continue efforts to construct a 24-hour lounge, and Breslin said that he and Student Body Vice-President Dave Kinkopf will soon meet with their cabi­net to establish other long-term goals. 
Over the summer, Breslin and Kinkopf held a meeting on campus with representatives of six other Catholic colleges and universities to create the National Association of Students at Catholic Colleges and Universities. The purpose of this new group is to bring together students or various Catholic schools to discuss topics which concern them. 
"The meeting this summer was basically a planning ses­sion for the group. We are hav­ing another meeting in November, and yet another during second semester," said Breslin. 
Other work done over the summer by Breslin and Kinkopf includes the creation of a recy­cling program for the University, a program which will involve student government to a greater degree than in the past. A representative will be on the advisory committee to work on the details of the pro­gram. 
In addition, student govern­ment sponsored a panel discus­sion on "Reform and China's future." 
Student government's general outlook is positive, according to Breslin. "Because we've gained the respect of the stu­dents over the past few years, it makes our job easier. With re­inforcement from the students, we can get more done." 
"We want to be known as ac­cessible to the students, more than anything," Breslin said. 
You're looking smarter 
Charge it at: University Park Mall-Mishawaka Phone 277-6000 
Tuesday, August 29, 1989 



The Observer/E.G. Bailey 
Flag protest 

Brother Edward Courtney gives the ''thumbs up" to passing drivers on U.S. 31/33 just west of the Notre Dame campus. Courtney is involved in a self-described non-violent protest against the U.S. Supreme Court's recent decision which legalized flag burning as a form of political expression. 
Two accused of planting 13 bombs 
Associated Press 
NEW ALBANY, Ind.--A fac­tory worker charged with mak­ing and planting 13 bombs was part of a conspiracy to blow up the community of Salem, a fed­eral prosecutor said Monday. 
Gerald Conrad, 42, of Salem went on trial before U.S. District Judge Sarah Evans Barker. 
Conrad and John Hubbard, 31, also of Salem, are accused of placing dynamite bombs around downtown Salem on July 5, 1988. None of the bombs exploded, although three ignited and fizzled. No one was injured. 
The two co-workers at Ferraloy Industries were ar­rested May 17 and indicted on 29 federal charges -one count of unlawful possession of dy­namite, one count of conspir­acy, 14 counts of making bombs and 13 counts of at­tempting to destroy roads and buildings affecting interstate commerce. 

Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert Stanley Powell said dur­ing opening arguments evidence would show that Conrad, a technical engineer at Ferraloy, helped Hubbard make the bombs and that tools used to make the bombs belonged to Conrad. 
"Four tools that were posi­tively identified came from that man's workshop, came from his house," Powell said, point­ing toward Conrad. 
Powell said the evidence would show that Conrad ini­tially told federal agents he was not involved with the bomb in­cident, but later told investiga­tors he had instructed Hubbard in how to make the devices. 
"We can show proof beyond reasonable doubt that Gerald Conrad is guilty of all 29 counts," Powell said. 
Powell cautioned that much of the government's case was based on circumstantial evi­dence. 
"Don't expect somebody to come up and say they saw them making the devices," Powell said. "The nature of this type of crime is that people do these things in private. Jerry Conrad was part of a conspiracy to blow up Salem, Ind." 
Hubbard is scheduled to be tried when Conrad's case ends. 
Defense attorney Michael McDaniel of New Albany de­scribed Conrad as an honest, law-abiding citizen. 
"He's the kind of person who was brought up to be respectful of law and order. He's never been in trouble with the law in his life," McDaniel said. 
McDaniel said that Conrad, when he takes the stand later this week, will not dispute the fact that he told Hubbard vari­ous things about making bombs. However, he will deny any involvement in a plot to blow up Salem. 
"The evidence will show he knew how to make bombs," McDaniel said. "He is a sur­vivalist. He wants to be self­sufficient in the event of a nu­clear war. He wants to be able to sustain himself, his family." 
In vitro baby reunion encourages parents 
18-month-old Lori Marie, a
Associated Press 
blond bundle of energy in a blue 
frock. 

LOUISVILLE, Ky. --Although in vitro babies are no different "I don't think they're any dif­than other infants, the effort ferent than any others," said and hope that precedes them Joe Smith, the twins' father. makes them special, say par­"They're into everything, just ents of the 21 children who like any other children....They gathered for their first just got here a little different." "reunion" at a Louisville hospi­That was the wonder of it all tal. to Dr. Marvin Yussman, direc­
"Anyone who can be encour­tor of Norton's infertility pro­aged to do this needs to be en­grams. couraged," said Dianne Smith, The reunion session came a of Georgetown, Ind.. mother of little more than 2 1/2 years in-vitro twins, Clay Patrick and after Louisville's first in-vitro Sunny Elizabeth. "It's just really babies -triplets -were born to special. Once they get here, it's Beverly and James Richardson everything." of Louisville on Feb. 5, 1987. 
The children -including the twins and one set of triplets -The Richardsons were the who gathered at the hospital first infants in the area to be with their parents Sunday owe born after being conceived "in their existence to Norton vitro," a procedure in which the Hospital's in-vitro fertilization mother's eggs are combined program. with the father's sperm in a 
"She's as normal as anybody laboratory dish and then im­else, but there's something spe­planted in the mother's uterus, cial about her." said Janice where the embryos develop Estep of Clarksville, Ind., about normally. 

Faculty 
continued from page 1 

Buttigieg, English; Alfred Freddoso, philosophy; Frederick Goetz Jr.. biological sciences; Douglas Kinsey, art, art history and design; Bill McDonald, finance and business economics; Patrick Murphy, marketing; William Nichols, accountancy; J. Samuel Valenzuela, sociology; John Van Engen, history and Medieval Institute; J. Robert Wegs, his­tory; E. Bruce Williams, math­ematics; and Frederico Xavier, mathematics. 
New associate professors with tenure, previously assis­tant professors, are :Kathleen Biddick, history; Jacqueline Brogan, English; Kevin Christiano, sociology, Angel Delgado-Gomez, modern and classical languages; Kent Emery Jr., Program of Liberal Studies; Malcolm Fraser Jr., biological sciences; Patrick Gaffney, anthropology; Jennifer Glass, sociology; Greg Kucich, English; Vicki Martin, biological sciences; Mark McCready, chemical engineering; Maria Rosa Olivera-Williams, modern and classical languages; Juan Rivera, accountancy; and John Welle, modern and classical languages. 
Associate professors receiv­ing tenure include: Craig Adcock, art, art history and de­sign; Richard Boswell, law school; Christopher Fox, English; and Mihir Sen, aerospace and mechanical engineering. 
Saint Mary's promoted four faculty members to associate professor: Gerald Gingras, modern languages; Donald Miller, mathematics; John Shinners, humanistic studies; and Douglas Taylor, art. 
Among special research fac­ulty, Rodney Ganey in the Center for the Study of Contemporary Society , Stefan Klemm in physics and John Robinson in law and philosophy were promoted to associate faculty fellow. 
Library faculty promotions include Michael Slinger in the Law..Library to librarian and Laura Fuderer in University Libraries to associate librarian. 
Special professional faculty promotions include: Richard Emge to associate professional specialist in the Center for Continuing education; Kathleen Maas Weigert to associate pro­fessional specialist in the Center for Social Concerns; and Jill Lindenfeld, assistant pro­fessional in physical education. 
Faculty members advanced to emeritus ranking are: Alfons Seitzinger, government and in­ternational studies; Robert Leader, art, art history and de­sign; James Cullather, accoun­tancy; Edward Jerger, aerospace and mechanical engineering; Tomoaki Asano, biological sciences; Michael Murphy, earth sciences; Vladeta Vuckovic, mathematics; Erwin Zelmer, Lobund Laboratory; 
Thomas  Broden,  law;  and  
David  Sparks,  University  
Libraries.  


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. until4 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 until3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Aft classifieds must


Classifieds 
be prepaid. The charge is 10 cents per fNe characters per day. 
TO ALL MY ND FRIENDS:

LOOKING FOR A FRATERNITY, COUCH FOR SALE.272·6306 WELCOME BACK WALSH HALLI 
EVEN THO I'M FAR AWAY,NOTICES SORORITY OR STUDENT HAVE A GREAT YEARI I WILL MISS YOU EVERY DAYI

FORRENT I
ORGANIZATION THAT WOULD ALL MY LOVE AND LUCK TO ALL.
IIIII USED TEXB(X)KS IIIII LIKE TO MAKE $500·$1 ,000 FOR HiAg ·YOUR OLD FRIEND INORDERED IN 3 DAYS A ONE WEEK ON-CAMPUS FURNISHED APT.·LIKE ROOM, MONTREAL,MARKETING PROJECT. MUST25% OFF UST PRICEIII 

TICKETS
AIR, KITCHEN, 5 MINS. NORTH 
·SHEA. CAMPUS. 272-Q615.
BE ORGANIZED AND Happy 21st Birthday 
Pandora's Books HARDWORKING. CALL JOE OR 808 Howard St,. MYRA AT (BOO) 592-2121. Laura Scotty!!
2 Bdrm HOME on NO ave.272· SB TO HARTFORD. NW AND UAL. 
How're you going to do ~ ...
3 Blks. from NO 

6306 1-WAY. SEPT. 2 AND 6. 239-7603 233-2342 
OR 291-6962. 

.. .when your first paper is due? $350.00/DAY PROCESSING APT. UTILITIES PAID GOOD 
JUNIORS 
The Class of 1991 welcome backWe have paperbacks in stock from 
PHONE ORDERSI PEOPLE CALL NEIGHBORHOOD MALE Aristotle to Zola, Fromm to Yoderlll 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ picnic is today at Holy Cross Field
YOU. NO EXPERIENCE PREFERRED 288-0955 PANDORA'S 
from 5-7. Come out and see your HEY THERENECESSARY. CALL NEEDED: 2 General Admission classmates, enjoy free food and I've got three tickets toBUYS USED TEXTS TOOl (REFUNDABLE) 1-315-733-6062 Tickets for the USC Game and 2 listen to music. See you there. Lou ReedEXTENSION P-2382H. 
General Admission Tickets for the Elvis Costello
FOR SALE
TYPING AVAILABLE. SMU Game. Please call259-8215. Welcome to NO Margl Edie Brickell and New Bohemians 287·4082. Cowboy Junkies
POST ADVERTISING MATERIALS COLOR TV RENTALS: $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Sept. 3 Alpine Valley WION CAMPUS. WRITE: COLLEGE LOW SEMESTER RATES. I want you to have them
DISTRIBUTORS, 33 How're you going to do it?
TV'S & VCR'S. FREE DELIVERY. 25.00 a piecePEBBLEWOOD TRAIL,
WANTED COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272· Phone Chris at x1535
NAPERVILLE. IL 60540. 
PERSONALS
5959. 
Tuesday, August 29, 1989 
The Observer 
a e 7 

Kermit, Miss Piggy and Henson join Disney crew 
Associated Press 
LAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla. (AP) -Miss Piggy and Kermit the Frog danced a jig with Mickey and Minnie Mouse as the Walt Disney entertainment empire Monday acquired the Muppet menagerie and the ser­vices of their creator, Jim Henson. 
The merger of the two kiddie entertainment giants will blend the colorful characters from "The Muppet Show" -the most widely seen TV program in the world with an estimated 235 million viewers in some 100 countries -into Disney's theme parks, movies, TV shows and retail merchandising products. 
Henson also will create new characters for Disney. 
Henson and Walt Disney Co. Chairman Michael Eisner re­fused to disclose the purchase price, which reportedly was be­tween $100 million and $150 million. 
Big Bird, Oscar the Grouch and the Cookie Monster will be staying on "Sesame Street." Henson's creations for the chil­dren's series are not part of Disney's takeover of Henson Associates, Inc., and he'll keep working with that show. 
The announcement came at the new Disney-MGM studios at Disney World. 
Mickey and Minnie Mouse were performing their regular show when Miss Piggy and Kermit bounded onto the open­air stage. The four danced a jig and kissed each other on the cheek, to applause from several hundred spectators. 
"I've loved Disney. I grew up on its movies ... and I'm happy to have the Muppets at the parks," said the bearded Henson, who created Kermit in 1955 and followed that up with Miss Piggy, Animal, Fozzie Bear, Gonzo, Scooter, and others. 
Henson and Eisner said few details have been worked out on Disney's plans for the Muppets. But work has begun on a new Muppet theater, to open next Memorial Day, fea­turing 3-D technology and 

Disney's "audioanimatronic" robots. 
The Disney chairman said the acquisition would reinforce Disney's stable of personalities. 
"I have not discovered that the public is getting tired of Disney characters," Eisner said. 
Asked about criticism that the new Disney-MGM studios theme park did not have enough to offer children, Eisner acknowledged that the planned new Muppet show "will give us just a little bit more for the very little kids." 
Analysts have said the park needed something to better compete with Universal Studios Florida, which will have two at­tractions geared to children when it opens May 1. 
But Eisner and Henson pub­licist Susan Berry later said the Muppets would retain their family-oriented humor and not become strictly children's char­acters. The Muppet's attraction to small children is primarily visual, Ms. Berry said. 
"Miss Piggy, for instance ­whose humor is adult humor ­is not going to change," she said. 
Disney said the merger alsQ would produce special Muppet attractions and rides for aU other Disney them parks. And Disney acquires the Henson film and TV library, including "The Muppet Show", "Muppet Babies," and "Fraggle Rock." 

Every frame that's hanging around as well as every poster that's suitable for framing is 20% to 25% offits original price right now. There are dozens and dozens ofeach. In fact, we probably have more frames and prints than you 





"''' ,.
have wall space.Prints such as Renoirs,Monets,O'Keeffes and other colorful 
\\\\t\\~ 
graphics to choose from. And at these prices, even our frames are works ofart. APlaceThDiscover.® 

Applyforl'lerl's NewCreditCardAtAII Ruticipating Stores. 
Mishawaka: 5712 Grape Rd. Ph. 272-0132 • 100 Center. Ph. 259-0880. Shop Mon.-Sat. 10-9, Sun. 12-6 
Black Wood Frames.  
Size  Reg.  Sale  
8"x 10"  $7.99  $5.88  
11"x 14"  $9.99  $7.88  
16"x 20"  $14.99  $11.88  
18"x24"  $16.99 $12.88  
20"x 28"  $29.99 $23.88  
22"x 28"  $34.99  $27.88  
24"x36"  $39.99 $31.88  
Linear Frames.  
Architectural White.  
Architectural Grey.  
Size  Reg.  Sale  
S"x 7"  $6.99  $4.88  
8"X I 0"  $8.99  $6.88  
11"x 14"  $11.99  $8.88  
16"x20"  $16.99 $12.88  
!8"x24"  $19.99 $15.88  
20"x28"  $34.99  $27.88  
22"x28"  $39.99 $31.88  
24"x36"  $44.99 $34.88  Acrylic Frames.  
Size  Reg.  sale  
16"x20"  $9.99  $6.88  
18"x24"  $10.99  $7.88  
20"x28"  $11.99  $8.88  
22"x28"  $12.99  $9.88  
24"x36"  $15.99  $11.88  

Metal Frames. Gold And Pewte[ 
Size  Reg.  Sale  
8"x 10"  $8.99  $6.88  
11"x14"  $12.99  $9.88  
16"x20"  $16.99  $12.88  
18"x24"  $19.99  $15.88  
20"x 28"  $34.99  $27.88  
22"x 28"  $39.99  $31.88  
24"x 36"  $44.99  $35.88  

Pastel Tinted 
Ash Frames. Desert Tan. Stormy White. Autumn Rose,catalinaBlue. 
Size  Reg.  sale  
8"x 10"  $8.99  $6.88  
11 "x 14"  $11.99  $8.88  
16"x20"  $16.99 $12.88  
18"x24"  $19.99  $15.88  
20"x28"  $29.99  $23.88  
22"x28"  $34.99  $27.88  
24"x 36"  $39.99  $31.88  

Saunders 
continued from page 1 
dorm. He had a disarming smile and a wonderful, laid­back sense of humor..... I never heard anyone in the dorm speak ill of him, and I never heard him speak ill of anyone else." 
"Three things were really important to Steve: his faith, his family and his friends," said Jerry Jacobs, Saunders' roommate at Notre Dame. "The kid really had some­thing special.. . .it turned ev­eryone on to him." 
Saunders was valedicto­rian of his 1988 high school class as well as junior and senior class president and a recipient of the Daughters of the American Revolution Good Citizenship Award. 
He is survived by his par­ents, Carl and Susan Saunders, as well as a brother, Mike, and sister, Emily. 
A memorial mass for Saunders is tentatively scheduled for September 30 at 5 p.m. in the Sacred Heart Crypt. Rev. Edward Malloy is expected to preside at the service. 
A Stephen B. Saunders memorial fund has been established. The money will be used to create a scholar­ship fund for an Iowa stu­dent who has been accepted at Notre Dame but needs fi­nancial aid. The scholarship will be implemented in the fall of 1990. The fund has already exceeded $10,000. 
"Steve lived his life -he lived it fully, and he lived it completely," said King. "He was just a really fme person 
truly a 'Notre Dame 
man.'" 


Malloy 
continued from page 1 

saw Malloy deliver several speaking engagements, accord­ing to Dennis Moore, assistant director of Public Relations and Information. 
He delivered commencement addresses at Gilmour Academy in Gate Mills, Ohio, Mooney High School in Rochester, N.Y., and at Carroll College, where he also received an honorary de­
gree. 

In June, he addressed the Alumni Association's closing dinner as well as the first an­nual dinner of the Black Alumni Association. He also addressed the editorial board of the Boston Globe. 
Join The Observer 
Tuesday, August 29, 1989

PTL leader starts trial Bakker to face 28 counts 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. --Jim Bakker's fraud and conspiracy trial opened Monday with a federal prosecutor accusing the TV evangelist of fleecing fol­lowers he consider "tacky" so that he could live in high style. 
But Bakker's lawyer said in his opening argument that the founder of the PTL television ministry was "a creative, reli­gious genius" who is unfairly accused. 
Prosecutors say Bakker and other executives at the evangel­ical empire diverted for their own benefit at least $4 million of the $158 million they raised by selling "lifetime partner­ships" at the ministry's resort hotels. 
If convicted of all 28 counts of fraud and conspiracy, Bakker could be sentenced to 120 years in prison and fined $5 million. 
"Have a nice day" was all the 49-year-old evangelist said as he entered the courthouse. 
Meanwhile, Bakker's wife, Tammy, carried on with their new broadcast from Orlando, Fla., asking viewers to pray for Bakker. She said she wanted to have the "Jim and Tammy Show" on the air so "Jim will have something to come home to." 
Bakker quit PTL amid revela­tions about his 1980 sexual en­counter with church secretary Jessica Hahn and a $265,000 payoff to her. 
Outside the courthouse Monday, the opening of the trial was marked by reporters and spectators vying for seats in the small court, and two men carrying signs denouncing Bakker and several other broadcast evangelists. 
"We just want people to know God isn't playing games. Anybody who reads the Bible knew that (PTL) wasn't right," said Bob Eckhardt of Columbia, S.C. 

. A meeting is being held for all photograptl~~ @ "' interested iJ:lllworking for The ObMNJr; i · on Wednesday, August 30 at 7p.m. atthe Observer office, 3rd floor La Fortune. BE THERE! 

Kimmerty's 

GlfiA·s PIZZA 
DELIVERY AHD CARRY OOT 
With hand roiled crust as only Gina's makes it and 
PARTY STORE 
2640 South 3rd. at Bertrand Road Niles, Michigan 


684:5930 r-s---oo-off-1 
Ho"'" r,e,day 4-g p.m. i 1 flny Pizza ! 
Friday and Saturday 4-12 p.m. I@) Tues., Wed:, Thurs. 
1 

~ • \; Kimmerty' 
1

Wednesday, Thursday, 1 e\(\0 <iina•s Pizza 
Sunday 4-11 p.m. (Mich. Time) L__________________j 


Panasonic 
ND/SMC STUDENT SPECIAL 
ONE WEEK ONLY Sale ends Sept. 5 
640K, IBMXT Compatible, 3 1/2 " -720K and 20 meg hard disk, monochrome moniter 
IRetail16951 $1075.00 I 
add 5 1/4" floppy $100.00 Panasonic 1 080 w/cable $225.00 
ARM Computing 
233-5971 
Located in the Computer Mall, downtown South Bend 

DICK'S MARATHON 
COMPLETE LINE OF AMERICAN & FOREIGN CARS 
1102 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, IN 46617 
GOOD FOR ONE 

Jlli
E. C0~8Y 
FREE CAR 

~!I WASH 
L----------------------------~ 
WELCOME BACK NO & SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS!!! 

TRACKS 

FEATURING NEW RELEASES AT THE LOWEST PRICES 

THE ROLLING STONES ELTON JOHN "STEEL WHEELS" "SLEEPING WITH THE PAST" CD $12.99 TAPE $7.99 
RED HOT CHILl PEPPERS  TOM PETTY  
"MOTHERS MILK"  "FULL MOON FEVER"  
DON HENLY  FINE YOUNG CANNIBALS  
"END OF INNOCENCE"  "RAW AND THE COOKED"  
CD $11.99  TAPE $6.99  

GREAT DEALS ON BLANK AUDIO TAPES IMPORT CD'S TAPE CASES & ACCESSORIES 
WE BUY, SELL, AND TRADE USED CD'S, TAPES, AND LP'S 
WE'LL MATCH ANY COMPETITOR'S ADVERTISED PRICE ON ANY ITEM WE STOCK. JUST BRING IN A COPY OF THEIR AD AND WE'LL MATCH THEIR PRICE. 
------------~-~------,----------~---------­
$1.00 off THE REGULAR PRICE OF ANY TAPE IN OUR STOCK  $2.00 off THE REGULAR PRICE OF ANY CD IN OUR STOCK  
no limit excludes sale items  no limit excludes sale items  
i  


____,._..,..___ 
Tuesday, August29, 1989 
The Observer page 9 
lightenyour load 



by mgan 
Even if you're up to your eyebrows in homework, you needn't carry the world on your shoulders.. 
Not with aMacintosh® computer on your desk. Think of an assignment that weighs 
-.., heavily on your mind right now-say, a term paper. With Macintosh, you can bring instant order to the jumble of notes, scribbles, quotes, and excerpts that'll go into your paper. You can quickly draft an outline, change the order of topics, and jot down related ideas at will. Then you start to write. You don't like the way you phrased a paragraph? No prob­lem-try something new, without erasing or retyping aword. Want to move the second page of your first draft to the tail end of your last draft? It only takes a few seconds. With Macintosh, you can also have your paper proofread in a minute or two. And you can illustrate it with professional-looking drawings and graphs, even if you don't know aT-square from aT-bird. And here's the clincher: You can learn to do all of these things-all of them-in less time than you might spend studying for aMonday morning quiz. Starting Sunday. 
© 1988 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo and Macintosh 
are registered trademarks ifApple Computer, Inc. 'The power lo 
be your best' is a trademark ifApple Computer, Inc. 
If you don't believe it, stop by the loca­tion listed below and see Macintosh for your­self You'll wonder how you ever carried a semester without one. 

·The power to be your besfM 
Notre Dame Computer Store Office of University Computing Computing Center, Math Building 
--------------~--~--­
Viewpoint 
Tuesday, August 29, 1989 
pa e 10 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Edltor....... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Killen VIewpoint Editor................... Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ........ Shannon Roach Sports Editor...................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ............ Aiison Cocks Accent Edltor.•...••.....•..••••.•........ John Blasi Systems Manager .............. Mark Derwent Photo Edltor...........................•.. Eric Bailey OTS Director.. .. ......... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Edltor............... Christine Gill Controller............................. Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objective­ly as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Ed­itor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Ac­cent Editor. Photo Editor. Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Welcome back returning students 
Dear Notre Dame Students: undergraduate and graduate Dear Saint Mary's Students: 
I want to welcome you back levels. Working together I am Welcome back! I hope the to the campus for another confident that we can help summer months provided you academic year. I hope that for develop an even better and with an opportunity to recover those of you who are returning more cohesive university from the rigors of the past this summer was a productive community. academic year and also en­time. As you will soon discover, gaged you in new and exciting a number of building projects I encourage you to get to growing experiences of a dif­have been taken to the next know your faculty in a personal ferent type. We are anxious to level of completion. In addition, way. They can be a tremendous begin the 1989-90 academic we are continuing the resource as you explore the year, which we hope will be a renovation of Sacred Heart options in your life. We are time of continued intellectual Church and have continued our proud of the high quality of and personal growth for each renovation of a number of the faculty that we have been able of you. dormitories. Many visitors to to attract and consider them the campus over the summer the most precious resource of It is our hope that the liberal commented about how the University. education you are receiving at impressed they were with the Saint Mary's will prepare you natural beauty of our Father Dave Tyson, Vice for a lifetime of learning. As environment. It is something President of Student Affairs, you begin again your course 
that we all have a responsibility and his staff are prepared to work I encourage you to probe, to maintain. assist you in any way that they question, search, and grow; 
This is the "Year of the can. Many exciting programs stretch your mind and take full Family." A number of activities and events are already being advantage of the knowledge are being planned under the planned. I urge you to get that is just waiting to be dis­auspices of the committee involved. A proper balance of covered. Accept the challenge 
headed by Dr. Roland Smith. I academic discipline and extra and grasp the wonderful op­hope that you will participate in curricular activity will make a portunities that are awaiting a number of these events. They Notre Dame education much you--in the classroom, in wor­are an opportunity to both more enjoyable and rewarding. ship, in recreation and athlet­reflect upon our personal begin studies at a variety of ics, and in our clubs and orga­experiences of family and to I look forward to having the different levels, all of you have nizations. look forward to the changing opportunity to speak with many become part of a University Make this a time to nature of the institution of the of you during the course of the community that is considered persevere, a time to take 
family in our society. year. May God bless us all in to be special to many that have strides forward, and a time to 
All of us in the administration this coming academic year. preceded you here. I encourage grow as a total person. look forward to a fruitful and We welcome back the you to take advantage of the Difficult as it is for you to be­cooperative year. You have Father Edward ·Monk· Malloy sophomores, juniors, seniors, multiple opportunities available lieve on this beautiful August elected outstanding leaders in University President as well as the returning to enhance your education here. day, soon another year will be student government at both the August 28, 1989 graduate and professional Moreover, I invite you to avail completed. Let it be well spent 

Viewpoint is looking for those interested in be­coming regular columnists for the 1989-90 school year. Please contact Dave Bruner at 239-5303 for 
more information. 
DOONESBURY 
~U. THAT5 rr; 8ABY Pa;! YOU CAN CARRY ON AU. YOU WANT, 8IfT

j NO~ TUBC FOR.. 
.;z:;o.,_~ T0f)AYI 

I·IZ 
THCI?e'5/rlOR£: 70 UF/3 
THAN ecRAWO AN1J OPRAH ANlJ SAU.YAN/) PHIL ANI? MOI<TON ANI? 
6/IR.Y ANI? R£6/S 
ANI? PU-IU&& I 
I 

students. It is our hope that yourselves of the variety of so that when you leave, you will each of you will be able to student services provided in our leave with the knowledge that achieve the academic, personal. Division. your presence and participation and spiritual goals you have set May God continue to bless us made a difference. for yourselves this academic in our endeavors. Good luck. 
year. 
We extend a special welcome Father David T. Tyson William A. Hickey to our new students --the Vice President President freshmen, transfer and new for Student Affairs Saint Mary's College graduate students. Thoughyou August 28, 1989 August 28, 1989 
INCRE!JIBU; AS IT 501JNPS_ THCRE'S A aJ-/Oi£ tt/CRU? 0UT51~ rF Tl3l&V/5/0N, 
8ABY t::a! THC/?&'5 CEN­lRAL PARK, 71£MUSCUM fF-NATU/?AL. H15T[)f(Y, TH!3 fJRONX ZlJO/ 
~~""'"='---/ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
tAl-fAT? YaJ 5i'IY YOU /A/ANT 7V 
N!3XJ; SHe
IA/IfTCH "A CUR..­
Ftllf3RAL
R&NTAR741K''? 
13XPRE'35CI?
IAICU., 0/<AY, 
HtR.HU5­
f3UT THAT'S IT/ 
S4NIJ'5 flEA[)I TO H/'3 t0V5R... •• 
~·· 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Don't be dismayed at good­byes. A farewell is necessary before you can meet again. And meeting again, after moments or lifetimes, is certain for those who are friends.' 
"Illusions" Richard Bach 

Accent
Tuesday, August 29, 1989 
page 11 
New assignment for 'Mission Impossible' 
Bud Brigman (Ed Harris) prepares to make his descent into "The Abyss," a two and one-half mile deep trench in the ocean floor, while his wife Lindsey (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio) and crew gather around him. 
Special effects highlight new sci-fi drama 

Same name, new cast: Peter Graves returns to the screen as IMF leader Jim Phelps in ABC's "Mission Impossible" joined by newcomers (1-r) Terry Markwell, Tony Hamilton, Phil Morris and Thaao Penghlis. 


JOE BUCOLO 
To Be Continued 
Imagine a group of James Bonds. Then imagine that group fighting for America against some of the world's most creative and cruel villains. ABC has made this group of secret service super heroes a reality and, for them, it's "Mission: Impossible." 
This new version of an older show with the same title airs on ABC Thursdays at 8:00 p.m. Peter Graves, the only cast member from the original series, reprises his role as James Phelps, director of a group know as IMF. Under Phelps' jurisdiction are Nicholas (Thaao Penghlis), Grant (Phil Morris), Max (Tony Hamilton) and newcomer Shannon (Jane Badler). 
Just as each James Bond film open with a view down the barrel of a gun, each episode of "Mission: Impossible" begins as the group receives its assign­ment from a self-destructing compact disc. No holdups at the local 7-Eleven will do for this group. Its assignments are far more intriguing and dangerous. 
One episode pits James and his cohorts against a fellow agent gone awry. This man now deals in diamonds from Amsterdam and chemical weapons from Russia. Phelps makes a careful and unique plan that has "Mission: Impossible" written all over it. 
When the voice on the CD warns this could be Phelps' 
most dangerous mission, it 
isn't kidding. In the course 
of the episode, Phelps' plan 
fails, the enemy shoots 
Phelps, and an entire mill 
explodes killing hundreds of 
people. 

Of course, "Mission: 
Impossible" never claims to 
be true to life. That's the 
fun of it. Each week 
introduces viewers to 
exciting and interesting 
equipment: everything from 
a surveillance camera that 
can scan a person down to 
his bones for identification 
purposes to a hand-held, 
remote control fax machine. 
This group performs every 
task--probably even the 
capture of that darn 7­
Eleven crook--with flair. 
The complex plots portrayed on the program bring out the incredible talent of the writers, actors, and special effects crew. Characters are constantly faking accents to protect their identities, and their makeup and costume jobs put Lana Turner's face lifts to shame. 
Viewers won't find the meaning of life in "Mission: Impossible;" however, they will find it impossible to not become engrossed by the fast-paced nature of the program. At the root of all television programs is entertainment, and that's precisely what this program is: enjoyable entertainment. This review will self-destruct in five seconds ... 
KELLEY TUTHILL 
accent writer 

If you take the adventure of "Aliens," the action-packed ten­sion of "The Terminator," and the fantasy of "Close Encounters" and put it all un­derwater, what do you get? "The Abyss." 
"The Abyss" is an underwater adventure written and directed by James Cameron and pro­duced by Gale Anne Hurd, the team that brought us, surpris­ingly enough, "The Terminator" and "Aliens." 
The movie begins underwater on board the USS Montana, a nuclear submarine. The sub­marine becomes incapacitated when it strikes a reef near an abyss in the floor of the Atlantic Ocean. The abyss ex­tends more than two and one­half miles straight down. 
The Navy calls on a team of civilian divers who are working on a prototype underwater oil­drilling habitat to dive to the wreck and search for survivors. Bud Brigman, played by Ed Harris, is the rig foreman on "Deepcore," the underwater oil drilling facility. He tries to ward off the Navy as he believes his crew is not qualified to handle this mission. 
Brigman's disregard for higher authority often keeps him at odds with Benthic Petroleum's corporate owners 
However, there's another dimension, from withiin the abyss there lives a terrestrial life form that befriends the crew of "Deepcore." 
and "Deepcore's" project engi­neer, who is also his soon to be ex-wife Lindsey, played by Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio. 
A four man team of Navy SEALs, supervised by Lt. Coffey, Michael Biehn, go down to "Deepcore" to coordinate the rescue mission. Tensions mount when Lindsey and the Navy SEALs come aboard "Deepcore." Linsey is a strong willed woman who doesn't like to conform to the military's orders. 
The struggle between the Navy's wishes and those of the "Deepcore" crew provides much of the action in the movie. However, there's another di­mension, from within the abyss there lives a terrestrial life form that befriends the crew of "Deepcore." 
Ultimately, the being from the abyss playes a pivotal role as Bud dives to depths over 25,000 feet below the Atlantic. Lindsey and Bud are drawn together as circumstances underwater make the past differences seem insignifigant. 
The photography in this movie is incredible. Forty per­cent of all live-action principal photography was shot under­water. The special effects were unique and added an extra to this otherwise standard action film. 
"The Abyss" was filmed at the never-completed Cherokee Nuclear Power Station outside of Gaffney, South Carolina. Two specially constructed un­derwater filming tanks were used for "The Abyss." One was a nuclear reactor containment building and can hold over seven million gallons of water. The other tank holds two and one-half million gallons of wa­ter. These tanks are the largest heated fresh-water filtered tanks in existence. All the dia­logue was filmed underwater for a more realistic effect. 
The movie is long--two hours and 20 minutes--and the ending was also a little riduculous. But, the movie was exciting even though many parts were borrowed from other similar movies. The underwater setting was a refreshing break. For those who are sick of space movies and enjoy action, "The Abyss" is a recommended al­ternative. 
Tuesday, August29, 1989

Top seeds cruise, Gilbert stopped as U.S. Open begins early rounds 


back-to-schoo,~l#i~'''W#·.···'''·'''···' 
.:~!k. 
specials! 

Associated Press 

NEW YORK-John McEnroe and Boris Becker played their best tennis in years at the U.S. Open on Monday but ailing Brad Gilbert, munching bananas and brownies to fight an energy-draining virus, couldn't keep his streak alive. 
Becker, bothered by blisters on both feet here last year when he lost in the second round, easily beat DavidPate 6­1, 6-3, 6-1 in the first round of the $5.1 million championship. Becker, who won his third Wimbledon in June, has never reached the U.S. Open finals. 
McEnroe missed the French Open this year because of a back injury and hurt his shoul­der in the Wimbledon semifi­nals, but had no problem beat­ing Eric Winogradsky 6-1, 6-4, 6-4. 
McEnroe showed a powerful serve again, coupled with quick, fluid movement to the net, indi­cating he may be ready to win his first Grand Slam even since 
capturing  the  U.S.  Open  in  
1984.  
"I  think  I  can  win,"  said  

McEnroe, a four-time U.S. Open champion. "Before, at some of the major tournaments, I was thinking of just making a pretty good showing and wasn't thinking that much about win­ning the tournament. Now I think that it's a realistic possi­bility." 
Gilbert, a menace on the ten­nis courts the past month with three straight titles, and a dark horse to win here, once again picked the wrong time to get sick. 
He woke up with a stomaeh virus after an eating binge Sunday night with fellow pro Robert Seguso, and succumbed to cramps and fatigue as his streak ended against unseeded Todd Witsken. 
The same ailment hit Gilbert seven years ago, and he hopes it will be another seven years before it happens again. 
"It's God's way of torturing you when you lose," Gilbert said. 
Gilbert shouted "Concentrate," and asked him­self dozens of questions on the court but couldn't find the an­swers he needed as he fell 4-6, 7-6, 4-6, 6-3, 6-2, in a nearly four-hour match. 
Gilbert, seeded eighth, was the only loser among the top seeds on a gray, rain-threaten­ing first day at the Open. 

A TTENT/ON STUDENTS!! A TTENT/ON STUDENTS!! 
NOTRE DAME'S DEVELOPMENT PHONE CENTER NOW HIRING FOR THE 1989,FALL SEMESTER 
25-35 Student Posi~ions Available Starting September 5th $4.70 Per Hour Flexible evening hours: 6:00-1 0:30 
All interested are invited to an informal Open House/Information Session at the Development Phone Center (southeast corner of Badin Hall) Thursday August 31 or Friday September 1 From 4:00p.m.-5:00p.m. 
PLEASE JOIN US For more information, call Carol McClory 230-7938 or Mike Brach 239-7241 
Here's your season ticket to Irish athletics ..... 
Join the Irish for a variety of top-notch varsity sports as Notre Dame hosts the best in college athletics. With a $10 purchase of the Blue & Gold Card, Notre Dame students gain free admission to all home games for soccer, volleyball, hockey, women's basketball, wrestling, baseball and lacrosse . 
The South Bend Marriott has joined the Notre Dame Athletic Department to present this offer to Irish fans. Besides entry to all home games for the above-mentioned sports, your Blue & Gold card entitles you to 20% off food purchases at the South Bend Marriott's Terrace Lounge and Looking Glass Restaurant and an informative monthly newsletter on Irish athletics. 
ORDER YOUR CARD TODAY!! 
Send me --Blue & Gold Card(s) at this address: NAME _____________ DAYTIME PHONE NOo;_._______ ADDRESS _________________________________________________ 
CIT....:.Y___________________...:STATE..______ZIP CODE -----------­
make checks payable to the University of Notre Dame 
Mail to: Notre Dame Blue & Gold Card; Athletic Marketing, Joyce ACC Notre Dame, IN 46556 Inquiries: call (219) 239-7362 
(for quicker service mail through the U.S. Post Office, not campus mail) 


Tuesday,August29, 1989 ------------------------------~T~h~e~O~b~s~e~N~e~r--------------------------------------------~pa~g~e~13 
Maddux leads Cubs past Astros, but Cardinals keep pace 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO-Greg Maddux pitched a six-hitter and Shawon Dunston hit a two-run double in Chicago's four-run first as the Cubs beat the Houston Astros 
6-1. 
Maddux, 15-10, struck out four and walked two in his sixth complete game. 
Jose Cano made his major-league debut for Houston and gave up five runs and five hits in five innings. 

--------------..... Cardinals 3, Reds 2 
Happy 19th birthday, Jim Ellis --have a great sophomore year! 
Love, 

Dad, Mom, and all your brothers and sisters 
Jerome Walton singled to open the first and took second on first baseman Glenn Davis' throwing error. Ryne Sandberg singled and Lloyd McClendon forced Sandberg. 
Cano walked Mark Grace and Andre Dawson consecutively, forcing in a run. Dunston then doubled in two runs and Rick Wrona hit a sacrifice fly. 
Houston scored an unearned run in the sixth when Rafael Ramirez reached second on a throwing error and scored on a single. 
Pedro Guerrero's two-out, two-run single capped a three-run eighth inning, giving St. Louis a 3-2 victory Monday over the Cincinnati Reds. 
Guerrero drove in his 89th and 90th runs with a hit off Rob Dibble, 7-4, after Cincinnati rookie Scott Scudder carried a four-hitter and a 2-0 lead into the inning. 
Scudder left after the Cardinals' Denny Walling doubled pinch-hitting for John Costello, 3-2. Willie McGee's single greeted Dibble, sending Walling to third. Ozzie Smith singled to score Walling before Guerrero's drive over shortstop. 
Padres 9, Expos 4 
Jack Clark hit a pair of three-run homers and Andy Benes won his second straight start as the Padres defeated Montreal 9-4 Monday night for their fifth straight victory. 
Clark tied a career high with six RBis, the third time he has done it. 


LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOl STUDENTS SJOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 
J-1 
.J£1-...,-"' / ~ ./ 


WELCOME BACK STUDENTS! ROCCO'S Restaurant 
South Bend's Original Pizza specializing in Pizza, Pasta, Sandwiches, and Italian Baked Lasagna on Fridays and Saturdays CARRY OUT 
A tradition with students since 1951 
Hours: Tuesday-Saturday 5:00p.m. -1:OOa.m. 537 N. St. Louis Blvd. (walking distance from campus) 233-2464 
Ir~--------------------------~ 
I I l 


I 

I •. SPEEDY LIMITS DELI 
I 709 E. LASALLE AVE. 
1 

SOUTH BEND, IN 46617
I 

CORNER OF ST. LOUIS
I t I MONDAY-FRIDAY

I 

I 11:00 a.m.-6:00p.m. I 
CARRY OUTS AVAILABLE 
I 

(219) 232-3144 
I I I 

BRING THIS IN FOR A FREE BEVERAGE 

... 
IL----------------------------J 
CAPTGAGUO 317-239-6634 COLLECT 
.=. =~ -----­




-----------.. 
------.--. ·­
-·.... ~·...--...=!>
..... -----... ·~ _, ~ 
................ 
~ 

:"':..-="' =~ ­
Dan Peltier 
University of Notre Dame • 
2nd Team Baseball­
University Division • Outfield • Junior • Accounting Major • 
3.40 GPA • Hometown: Clifton Park, NY • 
Erik Madsen University of Notre Dame • 3rd Team Baseball­
University Division • 
Pitcher • 
Senior • 
Science/Business Major • 
3.67 GPA • Hometown: Great Falls, MT • 

Congratulations to the GTE Academic All-Americans~ 
They are the leaders of the team. But what makes them even more special is their out­standing academic records. They are the GTE Academic All-Americans, selected by the College Sports Information Directors of America (CoSIDA) for being high achievers­in the game as well as the classroom. GTE is proud to be the official sponsor of this 37-year-old program and congratulates these student-athletes on their Academic All-American achievements. 
(iji #t G1EAcAoswcAu-AMERicA·TEAM Ct, ~ 
.... ---S E L E C T E D B Y C o S I D A , 1 • 
THE POWER IS ON "Academic All-America is a registered service mark with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. 
Mets 1, Dodgers 0 
Frank Viola won baseball's first-ever duel of defending Cy Young award winners, beating Orel Hershiser and the Los Angeles Dodgers 1-0 Monday with a three-hitter for his first complete game in the National League. 
The loss was the fourth straight for Hershiser, 14-10, for whom the Dodgers have scored only four runs in that span. 
Brewers 8, Blue Jays 2 
Robin Yount had three hits, including a home 
run, and Ed Romero drove in two runs as the 
Milwaukee Brewers snapped a six-game losing 
streak and beat Toronto 8-2. 
Winner Tom Filer, 5-2, allowed two runs, one 
earned, and nine hits in 5 3-2 innings. 
Toronto's John Cerutti, 9-8, allowed four runs, 
one earned, and nine hits in 5 2-3 innings. 
Red Sox 6, Tigers 3 
Nick Esasky hit his 26th homer, a three-run 
shot in the first inning, and took over the 
American League RBI lead with 93 as the Red Sox 
beat the Tigers 6-3 Monday night for a five-game 
sweep. 
Esasky's three-run homer off Jeff Robinson, 3­
4, in the first inning enabled him to pass Texas' 
Ruben Sierra, who has 92 RBI. 
Mike Boddicker, 12-9, held the Tigers to three 
singles through five innings before allowing a 
double and a run-scoring single in the sixth. 
Tuesday, August 29, 1989
SPORTS BRIEFS
NFL to suspend steroid users 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON­Approximately two dozen active NFL players tested positive for steroids in training camp and will be suspended for a month, the league said Monday. 
The names of the players, who will miss the final exhibi­tion game and the first three regular-season games, were sent to their teams and will be announced today. 
The NFL was to have released the names Monday, but the an­nouncement was delayed when the Player's Union asked a fed­eral judge to issue a temporary restraining order to stop the league from implementing the suspension plan. 
U.S. District Judge Thomas Hogan, however, refused to grant the request, saying all players had been given ample warning that they would be dis­ciplined for using strength-en­hancing substances. lie also said the union failed to show how its members would face ir­reparable harm under the league's new plan, announced last March 21 by Commissioner Pete Rozelle. 
By the time Hogan ruled, the league decided it was too late in the day to make the announce­ment and postponed it 24 hours. 
NFL spokesman Joe Browne said the number of players in­volved "fewer than two dozen" currently under contract. However, he would not be spe­cific. 
Browne said an unspecified number of other players among the 2,300 tested at training camps had tested positive but had already been cut by their teams. Teams were required to get their rosters to 60 players by today and the regular-sea­son limit of 47 by next Monday. 
In seeking the temporary re­straining order, the NFL Players Association called the accuracy of the testing proce­dures "highly questionable" and said that identifying and sus­pending a player for steroid use would stigmatize him. 
Hogan acknowledges that a suspension "could be fatal to a marginal player" and called his decision "a close call." 
But he said the union's lawyers had failed to prove that players who might be sus­pended would suffer irrepara­ble harm and added that most legal questions relating to the NFL's steroid-testing program must be left to an arbitrator to decide. 
The union said it based its argument on what it called "sloppy and unreliable" testing methods used by the NFL and its adviser, Dr. Forrest Tennant. 
After failing in court, the union said it still hoped the league would reconsider the suspensions and releasing the names. 
The ND wrestling team is holding an informational meeting for those students wish­ing to try out as walk-ons Monday at 4:30 p.m. in Coach Fran McCann's office on the second floor of the Joyce ACC behind the Monogram Room. Any questions should be directed to Coach McCann's office at 239-6167. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame sports information department was recognized as having the best football programs among Division 1A schools in the nation for the 1988 season, the College Sports Information Directors of America announced. -The Observer 
The ND lacrosse team is holding a meet­ing for all students interested in trying out for the team Monday at 4 p.m. at Loftus Auditorium. -The Observer. 
Trumbull, Conn., became the first United States team since 1983 to win the the Little League World Series after a 5-2 win over Kaohsiung (Taiwan) in Sunday's final. Marietta, Ga., had been the last American team to win the championship. -The Observer 
Peltier 
continued from page 20 
batting average, .406, RBI 
with 202, 60 doubles, 419 total 
bases and tied for the career 
mark in home runs with 28. His 
accomplishments earned him 
first team All-American 
honors. 
Peltier played an important 
role in Notre Dame's 1989 
NCM playoff bid. Prior to last 
season, the Irish had not been 
represented in that tournament 
since 1970. 
Peltier sustained his shoulder 
injury when he was preparing 
to catch fly balls in center field 
before a game. Before he was 
looking, a coach hit a fly ball 
form the third base foul line, 

striking Peltier squarely on his 
collarbone. 
The Rangers originally had planned to offer Peltier a spot on the 1991 spring training roster, but the date was moved up to the spring of 1990 due to his immediate success with the Copper Kings. 
JUST WHEN YOU NEED IT 
The Navy has S30.000 or more 10 help you finish your las1 rwo years of college. 
The Naval Reser.·e Officers Tr.1ining Corps (NROTC) Two­Year Scholarship Program can pay your mition, textbooks and instn1ctional fees, plus give you a momhly SI 00 ra.x-free allowance during your last 20 months of college. 
Upon gr.1duation you'll he commissioned a Navy officer and enjoy the benefits and opponunities offered, such as advanced education in any of the Navy's high-tech fields. 
NROTC two-year scholarships are highly competitive. Applications must be tumed in t•arly in your sophomore year. For more information, see or call: 
LT Dan Cochran 
239-7274 
NAVY ROTC 

CARPET REMNANT SALE 
1,000 REMNANTS 10% TO 20°/o OFF 

You areTomorrow. You are the Navy. 
Join The Observer 



~T:ue:s:d:a~y,~A~u~g~u~st~2~9~·-1_9_89_~_______________________________T~h~e~O~b~s~e~N~e~r------------------------------------------~pag~~~ 

vector research 
VRX-2700 

• 
30 Watt per Channel RMS 

• 
Completely Discrete Outputs 

• 
20 FM and 20 AM Presets 

• 
Pre-Out, Main-In 


• 
Digital Quartz Synesized Tuner 

• 
Multiple Audio-Video Inputs 



LIST PRICE 
0
219 ° 
DTL-50 CARVFR 
COMPACT DISC PLAYER WITH 
• 
9 -function lnfared wireless remote 

• 
Digital Time Lens • 9-track programmability 



Most manufactures would be content to present the DTL-50 as their top-of-the-line CD player -n·s that good. Incredible sonic performance, and the equally remarkable 
NOW
restorative capabilnies of the Digital Time Lens art brought to your ears through an Impressive list of features that make CD 
35900
listening an exercise in comfort and precision. 
VCD-420R 






vector research 
REMOTE CONTROLLED CD PLAYER 
• 
Wireless Remote Controlled 

• 
Digital Filtering and 176.4 kHz Oversampling 

• 
Versatile Programmability 

• 
Five-Way Repeat 

• 
Comprehensive Display 

• 
3-Beam Laser Pickup 



LIST PRICE
• Audible Cue and Review 

400 00 
j 

PI~~N:LE™ PN-5+ 
• 
Patent Pending DiaductTM Port for Superb Bass 

• 
3/4" Dome Tweeter wnh Ferro-Fluid 

• 
5 1/4" Black Polypropylene Woofer 

• 
50 Wat1 Continuous RMS Power Handling 

• 
7 Year Transferable Warranty 


"At lower levels the sound character 



NOW 
14900 
of the PN5+ system was amazingly close to that of our reference speakers, which cost nearly twenty times as much!.•.Quite remarkable 
Stereo Review January 1988 
+-----90 Days Same As Cash---------~ 
audiu §peciali§t§ 
Dave Derda Ken Fozo Tom Spink Kent Reiter Jeff Seig 401 N. Michi an South Bend ln. 219-234-5001 
Model PN-5+ 

LIST PRICE 
0

179 ° 
NOW 
17900 
VISA MASTERCARD DISCOVER 
Tickets 
continued from page 20 
for the five-game home season are $57.50 for Notre Dame students and $77 for Saint Mary's students. All applications must be accompanied by student IDs. 
The windows will be open from 1:30 p.m. to 8 p.m. September 5th through the 8th. Juniors can get their tickets September 6, sopho­mores, law students and grad students September 7, and freshmen September 8. One student may bring as many as four applications and IDs. Married students may pur­chase tickets for spouses at the student price, but proof of marriage is required. 
The 1:30 starting time is in­tended to reduce the need for overnight lines, according to Associate Ticket Manager Jim Bell. 
"Camping over is discour­aged," Bell said. "In the mornings, we'll be as flexible as we can be as long as the lines are orderly and the area is kept clean. But we don't need the furniture and stuff out all night like we've had in 
the past." 
Security will be on duty at the Joyce ACC during the ticket distribution process. 
Despite site, King takes LPGAWorlds 
Associated Press 

BUFORD, Ga.-Betsy King would welcome a change of venue to defend her latest golf title-the LPGA World Championships. 
"I wasn't that crazy about the course," King said, claiming throughout the tournament that the 6,107-yard Pineisle Resort course didn't suit her game. 
She's having the kind of sea­son where it didn't matter. 
King threatened to run away from the-filed Sunday before struggling with three bogeys in the middle of her round. She regained her composure and completed a round of 68 for a three-shot victory, her sixth this year. 
King said the greens were too slow, the course was too hilly and there were too many blind spots. Still, she through it could be more difficult. 
"I think we could do with a little tougher challenge," she said of the event that brings together an elite international field of 16. "It's a great resort course. For an open type or major type event, it's certainly not in that category. I recom­mend it highly if you want to go on vacation." 
There is a possibility the world championship will leave the area next year if the LPGA schedules a regular tour event near Atlanta. 
King's 13-under par 275 total gave her a three-shot victory over Pat Bradley and Patty Sheehan. 
The $83,500 first prize from her 20th career victory lifted King's 1989 earnings to $609, 457-a single-season LPGA Tour record. King said she had planned to play all six remain_­ing official tour events th1s year, starting with the Rail Classic at Springfield, Ill. on Labor day weekend. 
-------~-----­
Tuesday, August29, 1989

................................................................ 

Observer classifieds will be accepted from
Heppy Blrthdey Today is Laura S.'s birthday. Call her up 

9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314
and wish her a happy one. By the way Laura, we do expect to see you dancing 

LaFortune.
on pool tables tonight.
11 II 



BAPTIST Student Union 
Bible Study ­
Join 
Us! 

Irish goHers host campus tournament 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame's varsity men's and women's golf teams, in conjunction with the Burke Memorial Golf Course on campus, are hosting a golf tournament on Two successive weekends, September 9 and 10, and 16 and 17. 
The Notre Dame Campus Championship Golf Tournament is open to faculty, staff administration and students. 
The tournament is also an open tryout for the men's and women's varsity golf teams. 
Entry forms and information are available at the Burke Pro Shop or the Starters Hut. The 
entry fee  is  $5,  and  entries  
must  be  received  by  5  p.m.,  
Monday, September 4.  

+
American 
Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 

cancer than now live in the City of Los Angeles. 
We are winning. 

You can save literally days of Better algorithms and chip 
work between now and grad­design help you finish much 
uation. Simply by using an HP faster and more accurately 
calculator. 1b keep you from than their way. So, whether 
endlessly retracing your steps, you're in engineering, busi­
ours have built-in shortcuts. ness, finance, life or social 
Such as the unique HP Solve sciences, we've got the best There is a betterway. 
function for creating your own calculator for you. For as 
formulas. Menus, labels and little as $49.95. Check it out 
prompts. Program libraries. at your campus bookstore FJ/d'l HEWLETT 
Algebraic or RPN models. or HP retailer. ~~PACKARD 
01989 Hewlett-Packard Company PG12905 


Tuesday, August 29, 1989 
The Observer page 17 


W ALUMNI ~:::'~>t.:wi·-~IIIISJ!II " 
MEMBERS
i!:CLua' 
Pick your membership cards up during
club hours. .. 

WANT ONE? $25 checks only Wed. 9-2 Lots of free gifts 
Thurs. 7-2 Kickoff classic, Pizza specials Fri. 9-~~ Meet-a-mate nite, Tons of specials Sat. 9-2 Graffitti Party, Wear a white T-shirt 
Rose 'double-crossed' by Giamatti statement 
Associated Press other eight months and spend 
CINCINNATI-Pete Rose feels another three-quarters of a double-crossed by A. Bartlett million dollars," Rose said dur­Giamatti because of the com-ing the interview at his subur­missioner's public statement ban Cincinnati home. that he believes Rose bet on Bartlett said Monday that baseball. Rose appears to have been mis-
But Giamatti disagreed informed about the agreement. Monday, saying the agreement he reached under which he ''I'm saddened to hear this banned Rose from the sport view ... I was very clear about does not prohibit Giamatti's the fact that I was not going to stated personal opinion that he be constrained from saying thinks Rose bet on baseball. what I thought was the case," Giamatti emphasized at a news Giamatti said by telephone conference Thursday in New from Edgartown, Mass. ''I'm York that the statement was not going to change anything I his opinion, not an official said. finding of Major League "The agreement was reached Baseball. to acquiesce in their desire to 
"I am dumbfounded that he avoid a hearing ... In the ab­would say that," Rose told The sence of a hearing, there can be Cincinnati Post in an interview no formal finding. The docu­published Monday. "Just 12 ment also says I have a formal hours earlier, we signed that basis for the sanction I im­agreement in good faith, and posed.n there he was saying he thinks I bet on baseball. Giamatti said he based his 
"The only reason I signed personal belief on the 225-page that agreement was that it had report by baseball investigator no finding that I bet on base-John Dowd about Rose's al­ball. We got what we wanted, leged baseball betting. and we didn't have to go an-Giamatti banned Rose from
p•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• baseball 
for life, under an 
HAMMES 

ND~M£ 
,~_,~ 


WALLSAVER TAPE (Removable Poster Tape) $1.95 
WELCOME BACK STUDENTS, FACULTV, r--------. &STAFF 
=ti~uares 


Scotch 
Post-It
Brand 
MEMO CUBES
MOUNTING 
(450 sheets)
SQUARES 
$2.99
$. 79 
Special Hours; August 29,30 9a.m. -?p.m. 

agreement stipulating that Rose did not admit having bet on baseball. The agreement al­lows Rose, whose five-year tenure as manager of the Cincinnati Reds ended Thursday, to apply in one year for reinstatement to baseball, but there are no guarantees his 
application will be accepted. 

Rose told the newspaper he was considering a possible tele­vision appearance so he can tell his side of baseball's gambling allegations against him. Rose also said he would not rule out undergoing counseling for his gambling. 
"I don't think I have a prob­lem," he said. "But we're not ruling anything out." 


\leneed somoone with the ronfidmce ofaSDgJD~,thededicaDooot amardtltonrr and the rourage ofanaplorer. 
'M: need a Peace Corps volunteer. Call us a1 t--....24-8510, Ext. 9l 


r-"'-----P...~-ge_1_8___________~-------_____T_h_e_O_b_s-erv_e_r----------·­
Tuesday, August29, 1989 


The ObserverI David Fischer Former Notre Dame shortstop Pat Pesavento now is turning double plays in the Detroit Tigers system. Pesavento has been drafted each of the past three years, turning down the previous two offers to return to Notre Dame. 
3 Purdue players get suspensions appealed 
Associated Press 

WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.­Three Purdue University foot­ball players who were sus­pended from school following a campus altercation are back with the team following rulings of the campus appeals board. 
Offensive lineman Scott 

Conover and Larry Taylor, 
along with tight end Kelly 
Turner were acquitted by the 
appeals board last week. They 
were among six players sus­
pended following an incident 
involving member of the Purdue 
wrestling team at a campus 
party in March. Conover, 
Taylor and Turner were all 
suspended for the current fall 
semester. 
Cornerback Steve Jackson 

and Safety Jarrett Scales were 
both suspended for the past 
summer session, but did not 
appeal. However, school offi­
cials said that the suspensions 
were also being removed from 
their records. 
"Because all the appeals were upheld, the dean of students of-flee made a decision to rescind the disciplinary action against the two players who were disci­plined this summer," said Joe Bennett, vice president for uni­versity relations. 
The sixth player, defensive back Tony Brown, was sus­pended for the entire 1989-90 school year. He was suspended from the team this month by Coach Fred Akers after being arrested by West Lafayette po­lice on suspicion of battery, theft and trespass and has since left Purdue. 
A nine-member panel consist­ing of four students, three fac­ulty members and two staff members upheld the appeals. The make-up of the panel was not the same for the Taylor and Turner hearings and the board decided to rule on Conover's appear without holding a hear­ing, officials said. 
The players, all black, through the local chapter of the NAACP had charged the University with racial discrimi­nation in its decision to suspend them. The wrestlers were all white and no disciplinary ac­tion was taken against them. 
West Lafayette police were called to the scene of the inci­dent, but no arrests were made and no serious injuries were reported. 
"I'm just elated at the way this turned out," Akers said after learning of the board's ruling. "This really has an im­pact for us because it could have left a big, big hole in our football team. This is going to give us a much better chance to have an offensive line." 

If}Ul're ~~ todrinkarrl dri..e 
atlea'it let the rest of us krx:m. 

Reader's Digesl 
Murphy's freshman class is intact 
Pitchers Leahy, Walania turn down pro baseball offers 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Associate Sports Editor 
None of Notre Dame's base­ball recruits from last spring accepted professional offers, Coach Pat Murphy said Monday. 
Two of Notre Dame's six freshman pitchers -Pat Leahy and Alan Walania -had been selected in May's professional draft. Both players decided to honor their previous commit­ments to attend Notre Dame. 
Leahy, an All-American in high school from Yakima, Wash., was picked in the 16th round by the Toronto Blue Jays, and Walania, of Derby, Conn., went late in the draft. 
Notre Dame's other freshman recruits include pitchers Eric Danapilis of St. Joe, Mich., Chad Hartvigson of Kirkland, Wash., Chris Michalak of Joliet, Ill. and David Sinnes of Miami, Fla.. and outfielder Bobby Kurtz of Atlanta, Ga. 

"You can't equate the draft with how much they can affect college programs," said Murphy. "The draft's for po­tential pro players. All these guys are potential pro players, but all of them have a long way to go." 
Junior outfielder Dan Peltier left Notre Dame after being se­lected by the Texas Rangers in the draft's third round, and se­nior shortstop Pat Pesavento went to Detroit in the 17th round. 
Notre Dame graduates Erik Madsen and James Sass both signed contracts with profes­sional clubs after finishing their Notre Dame careers last spring. Madsen, a pitcher. is in the Los Angeles Dodgers orga­nization, while Sass is playing outfield for a Milwaukee Brewers minor league team. 
Tickets will go on sale in about three weeks for the two­game series between Notre Dame and Southern California scheduled for Oct. 18-19 at Stanley Coveleski Stadium. 
The Irish are preparing for a schedule that includes a sea­son opening series at Hawaii and the first annual Irish Baseball Classic, a tournament Notre Dame is hosting at the Seattle Kingdome over spring break. 


A SPECIAL CLEARANCE SAVE ;~ 70Ofo 
• 
Choose from 1,OOOs from our best selling lines 

• 
Every size, style and color imaginable•••solids, muHicolors, prints 

• 
Great for dorm rooms, rec rooms, your entire home 


MISHAWAKA/SOUTH BEND
For people whr --1 5505 GRAPE ROAD 
expect value 
~ OPEN DAILY 9:30 to 9 SUNDAY 11·5
Iii
'---------AMERICA'S LARGEST CARPET SPECIALTY RETAILER ... OVER 811 OUTLETS -------­
~s..~s-~._s;;:;ssssssssss~~~~;;:s:;;:s:~~~~~~~~ssssssssssssssssssss~~~~~~~~~~~ss~j 
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! 
For your convenience Textbooks are now arranged by course number. 
Extended bookstore hours on Tuesday, August 29th and Wednesday, August 30th 9 am to 7 pm 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 



Tuesday, August29, 1989 
The Observer page 19 
MENUS CROSSWORD 
Notre Dame 
Roast Turkey 
Egg Foo Yung 
Stuffed Shells 
Hot Ham and Swiss Hoagie 

ACROSS 29 TV offering 34 Greek name for
1 Urchin 
Greece
4 Following 
36 Remedy

9 Better than 
37 Uncooked

better 38 Med. course
13 Out of port 39 Andes dweller 
15 Varnish ingredient 41 Wash 16Pro-42 River in China 17 Prevaricates 43 Pasture sounds 18 TV offering 44 Using a chair 20 Insect repellent 46 TV offering 22 Raves' partner 49 Cubic meter 23 Diamond name 50 Yoked haulers 24 Combustion 51 Deceased result 
53--Calais, 26 Harpoon, e.g. France 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

56 Maneuver 60 TV offering 64 Stratford's 

stream 65 Greek letters 66 "... lovely as 
-":Kilmer 67 Obscene 68 Budget item 69 Pulls apart 10 Hasp. group 
DOWN 

1 Baby's need 2 Land mass 3 Judge 4 Famed fabulist 5 Small posy 6 Afternoon affair 7 Ruler: Abbr. a Bravo or Branco 9 Life; vitality 
10 Deserve 11 Photocopy 28 African antelope 43 Prizefighter 57 Declare
12 Soviet news service 30"-of 45 This, in Mexico 58 Up or down Identity": Doyle 47 Unpretentious follower
14 Road surface 31 Declaim 48 More leisurely 59 Things to make 19 Ordinary speech 32 Vacillate meet
52 Cathedral parts 21 Juan's hour 
33 Resident of 53 Sight at Atlantic 61 Dyer's large Stockholm City vessel area 35 Dred Scott, e.g. 54 Entrance price in 62 Resident of: 25 Soup plants 
40 Homophone for poker Suffix 26 Military hat lane 
55 Musial of 63 Important time 27 Type of code 41 Football play baseball period 


WILBUR AND WENDEL JAY HOSLER 

CALVIN AND HOBOES BILL WATTERSOf-..1 

I TDLD ti()M ~Nt> DAD ~t_ LEFI \I<::>BB'tS BB\1~~ •.. I 

... (S~Iff) Will., I ffil~K 7RIEP TO 6£\ l\-19\ "ID 1\IRI-l 
HE's 'I~UABlE.. ~~ AND <Ill<\~ ~... AKO NOW 1.001(, OOBS£5 W~ 
A\1. I>.L<::*-1£ W\IEN. OOR H0JS£ 
Wf!.S B~K \~"ID! 
r'~;,
~ cc 
I ' 

-
~ . ·o .. --~~.. 
~
5-3 


THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

"Well, Mr. President, let's see ... carry the one, take away three, carry the two ••• that would be fourscore and seven years ago." 
JF~llll 

JACC August 29-30 Noon-6:00 PM 
Absolutely everything you need for a college room outside of beer! All at student prices (cheap). 
After that, check out: Zeto and the Heat-Ons 5:30PM 
,
Fieldhouse Mall 
·STUDENT·UNION·BOARD·

All of this good stuff is sponsored by the Student Union Board 


Sports 
Tuesday, August29, 1989
page 20 
Pre-season pollsters ignore Holtz, favor Irish to repeat 
Th~ Observer I Laura Stanton see TICKETS I page 15 
Peltier takes Ranger offer, shines in Pioneer League 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Notre Dame first. The Sporting lost for the season with a knee Scott Kowalkowski are listed Associate Sports Editor News favors Nebraska, Athlon injury. as the starting defensive ends 
selects Southern California and "We've lost five players who for Thursday's game. 
Michigan has the backing of were capable of being All­"To play five of our first six 
Lou Holtz claims his team's Street and Smith and Game Americans or all-conference in games on the road really puts chances of defending its na­Plan. In none of the polls are any conference," said Holtz. us in a difficult position," said tional title aren't even worth the Irish ranked lower than "We're not even thinking of a Holtz. "That's asking a lot of a considering, but most of the third. national championship. Anyone team, let alone a team in tran­college football pre-season Notre Dame would be the who makes that kind of talk sition. With the difficulties pollmakers apparently beg to first team to win back-to-hack isn't welcome at the Notre we've had, I'd have to say that differ. national titles since Alabama Dame football office or at might be a more difficult step 
Notre Dame heads into turned the trick under Paul practice because that's the fur­than this football team can Thursday's Kickoff Classic "Bear" Bryant in 1978 and thest thing from our minds." take against Virginia as the consen­1979. Ale, Stonebreaker and In its pre-season rankings. sus selection to end the season All the polls from periodicals, Williams each were expected to Sport writer Mike Francesa as the national champion. The except for USA Today, were re­start on defense for the Irish. states, "Normally I would never Irish are ranked first in the leased before Notre Dame lost Junior defensive tackle Bob pick a team to repeat or pick a pre-season United Press Arnold Ale, Braxston Banks, Dahl will replace Williams as team that has to play three top International poll and second, Tony Brooks, John Foley, the starting defensive tackle, 15 teams (Miami, Michigan, behind Michigan, in the Michael Stonebreaker and and classmate Donn Grimm is Penn State) on the road. But Associated Press Top 25. George "Boo" Williams for var­stepping in for Stonebreaker at these aren't ordinary circum­
Of the college football publi­ious reasons. Athlon's poll linebacker. stances. The Irish are that cations, Don Heinrich, Playboy, came out before USC starting With Ale's departure to good." Sport and USA Today rank quarterback Pat O'Hara was UCLA, juniors Andre Jones and USA Today's poll says, "Holtz 
Preseason ProphecieS 
The "experts " release their 1989 college football Top 10 predictions. 
Sport USA Street & Sporting Don 

Magazine Playboy  Today  Smith  News  Heinrich  Athlon  AP  
1 NO  NO  NO  Michigan  Nebraska  NO  usc  Michigan  
2 Miami  Miami  Michigan  NO  Michigan  Michigan  NO  NO  
3 Nebraska  Michigan  Nebraska  Miami  ND  usc  Auburn  Nebraska  
4 usc  Nebraska  usc  usc  LSU  Miami  Nebraska  Miami  
5 Michigan  Florida St.  Miami  Florida St.  Miami  Florida St.  Michigan  usc  
6 UCLA  usc  Florida St.  UCLA  usc  Penn St.  Florida St.  Florida St.  
7 Florida St.  LSU  Auburn  Nebraska  BYU  Nebraska  Penn St.  LSU  
8 LSU  Syracuse  UCLA  LSU  Colorado  Auburn  Miami  Auburn  
9 Arkansas  Auburn  LSU  Penn St.  Florida St.  LSU  Arkansas  UCLA  
10 Syracuse  Alabama  Penn State  Auburn  UCLA  W. Virginia  UCLA  Arkansas  

and depth of talent more than offset losses of Stonebreaker, Brooks et al." 
Street and Smith counters by writing, "Michigan, which never backs off a challenge, has to visit UCLA the week after the Notre Dame game (Sept. 16). If it gets past those two -look out." 
The Sporting News, which ranks Notre Dame junior Todd Lyght as the top cornerback in the nation and quarterback Tony Rice as the Heisman Trophy favorite, says. "A schedule that poses J'ust two true tests -at Colora o and a home date with Oklahoma -is (Nebraska's) biggest plus." The Sporting News also calls the Irish offensive line the fourth best in the country. 
i/ Ticket sales set to begin 
Special to The Observer 

The Notre Dame athletic de­partment ticket office has an­nounced procedures for 1989 season football ticket sales to students. Ticket applications will be in Notre Dame student mailboxes early next week, and Saint Mary's students will receive their applications at registration. 
Any students who do not re­ceive their applications by Thursday, Aug. 31, should get in touch with the ticket office to receive a copy of the appli­cation form. Students who do not have a local (Michiana­area) address should also contact the ticket office for their applications. 
Distribution begins Tuesday, Sept. 5, at the Joyce ACC ticket booth, with seniors getting first shot at 50-yard line seats. This year's prices 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Sports Writer 
Dan Peltier, Notre Dame's All American outfielder last year as a junior, opted to forego his senior year of athletic eligibility by signing a baseball contract with the Texas Rangers . 
... 
• Recruits stay with the Irish/ page 18 

Peltier, who was playing this summer for the Rangers' affiliate in the Pioneer Rookie League, was leading the league in hitting. He will spend the fall semester at Notre Dame, working towards his degree and practicing with the Notre Dame baseball team before returning to training camp with the Rangers in the spring of 1990. He needs one more year of studies before completion of his degree in Accounting. 
The Clifton Park, N.Y. native was leading the Rookie League with a .405 batting average when his season was cut short by a broken collarbone in early August. Since suffering the injury, Peltier has recovered quickly and already has full rotation in his arm and shoulder. 
When they raised their offer and 
.n•n'"'"""""'.....,,.... --·.,; _,...,

included a signing bonus, Peltier 
-;~·. --~--.G
accepted. 

The Rangers will pay for his school expenses and eventually allow him to finish his studies at Notre Dame at the team's expense. 
"They're treating him like a king out there,'· said Irish baseball coach Pat Murphy. "I've never heard of anything so good." 
By signing with a professional club Peltier has lost the opportunity for Team USA, a prestigious summer team representing the United States. The team competes with other countries from June to August:He will also not be able to play collegiate sports, but Peltier is not second guessing. 
"With the second otTer they gave me, I had no hesitations," said Peltier. "It was time to sign professionally. It was best for me at the time to sigil-a career move." 
Peltier launched his rookie season in the minors by hitting .414 with five home runs and 19 RBI in 19 games for the Butte Copper Kings. Prior to his shoulder injury, he assembled a 22­game hitting streak, a Texas Rangers franchise record in the Pioneer League. 
Last year as a junior, Peltier led the Irish with a .446 average, a .783 slugging percentage, a .513 on-base 
The Observer I Trey Raymond
percentage, 15 home runs, 93 RBI, 32 
Peltier was the fifth pick in the third doubles, 115 hits and 202 total bases. 
Since breaking virtually every Irish batting record in his three seasons with Notre Dame,round of the amateur draft and the He set Notre Dame career record in Dan Peltier has been a hit with the Texas Rangers organization. Peltier entered May'sRangers' second pick overall, but he NCAA tournament with a .517 on-base percentage and an .800 slugging percentage for 
see PEL TIER I page 14
refused the team's initial signing otTer. 
Notre Dame. 




