-~ ----~--------, 
-;.._ _ ~ Mostly sunny and a little
LA=C=C=E=N=T=:=O~p=a=ls===an=d===A==b=o=ri=g=in=e=s==============:ll ~~~-J_s,
__ -old-en-da-v _ ___,

p~_l_A 9 

IVIEWPOINT: Scholastic: fun and work fo~::~~~;fS~:~~·Ji.'C: 

VOL. XXII, NO.~ /0$"" 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
British transport secretary claims he showed restraint 
Associated Press 
LONDON-Embattled Transport Secretary Paul Channon went before a jeering Parliament on Tuesday and denied he was lax in warning airlines of a new type of terror­ist bomb before the Pan Am Flight 103 disaster. 
Channon, often shouting above calls for his resignation, said that after the jumbo jet was blown apart over Scotland on Dec. 21, he concealed from Parliament for security reasons the international alert about a radio-cassette bomb. 
He also said that at the time, he thought the disaster could }1ave been an accident. 
"I told Parliament all I could," Channon said during a House of Commons emergency debate, forced by the opposi­tion Labor Party. "In inves­tigations where there are also important security matters it is essential that all of us exer­cise a certain degree of restraint." 
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher rallied to Channon's defense, declaring that "totally unfair accusations have been 
made against him by lesser 
men." 
But Channon, 54, appeared increasingly defensive, and there was no sign his appear­ance in the Commons, after five days of refusing to make a parliamentary statement, would ease the onslaught. 
Critics accuse him of muddled and cavalier conduct, of bungling the warnings from West German and U.S. aut­horities, and of concealing in­formation until it is forced out. 
Channon also denied charges that, to try to distract attention from the furor surrounding him, he leaked a false report last week to a group of jour­nalists that police knew the bomber's identity. Journalists disputed this. 
"I think he is guilty as charged," said John Prescott, the Labor Party's transport spokesman, after the angry ex­changes in the Commons. Among other things, Channon had confirmed ''the British aut­horities took 10 weeks" to circ­ulate a detailed warning, he said. 

The latest controversy fol­lows a newspaper revelation March 16 that the Department of Transport warned British airlines on Nov. 22 about a radio-cassette bomb. A similar bomb destroyed the Pan Am jet over the Scottish village of Lockerbie, killing all259 people aboard the plane and 11 on the ground. 
The Transport Department dated a more detailed warning Dec. 19 but only mailed that to British, U.S. and other foreign airlines operating from British airports in the second week of January, well after the dis­aster. 
The warning emanated from West German authorities, who arrested a Palestinian group with the bomb in late October. 
The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration sent the warn­ing to U.S. airlines, including Pan Am, on Nov. 18. 
Channon reiterated that the Dec. 19 warning was "unimpor­tant,'' although copies show it contained additional informa­tion about the physical appear­ance and inner working of the radio-cassette bomb. 
•

Canales and Monteiro victorious 1n GSU race 
By MIKE O'CONNELL News Staff 
Luis Canales and John Mon­teiro were elected as the new president and vice president of the Graduate Student Union last night with 17 out of a pos­sible 26 votes. 
Michael Wright and Jim Stukas were second with 8 votes, and Ken Dawling and Rosemary Marusak received one vote. 
About 30 representatives from the Graduate Student Union were present for the election. 
Prior to the elections, Canales and Monteiro made a final statement on their plat­form for the presidency. 
"Our main theme is the unity of Graduate Students on campus," said Canales, "We need to help Graduate Students identify better with the Student Union and feel that they belong here." 

Canales and Monteiro went on to discuss their experience in the Graduate Student Union, emphasizing the many social events which they helped to or­ganize. 
"We want to make radical changes in the GSU so that more people can be involved," said Canales, "At the same time, we want to gain public 
Holtz impressed by performance in spring practice, looks forward to next season 


By BRADLEY GALKO Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame football ­team has put the national championship behind them and has now begun to focus on next season, according to coach Lou Holtz. 
At the St. Edward's Hall Forum on Tuesday night Holtz said, "It was a fun year. I'm glad we won it (the national championship) for you. But now that's over. That is behind us." 
"What we're not worried about is repeating. What we are worried about is what kind of football team are we going to be this year," added Holtz. 
they just love the game. Their · practice habits have been ex­
Lou Holtz 
"I've never seen a football team be as impressive in five days of spring practice as this football team has been,'' said Holtz. "Their desire, their en­thusiasm, the way they play, emplary." 

He summed up his impres­sions by saying "We have a chance to be an awefully, awe­fully good football team...and we will be a solid team." 
Holtz also said that he believes that the expectations for his team will be much higher this year, but he added, "That doesn't bother us." 
He said that he felt Notre Dame had a very good recruit­ing year. "I want an individual who can succeed here academi­cally, athletically and social-
see LOU, page 5 

Seeking to defeat old guard candidates and force a second election, Soviet human rights activist Andrei Sakharov casts his votes Tuesday. 
Old guard? 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22, 1989 
AP Photo 

recognition of Graduate Stu­dents in such events as the Graduate Student Appreciation Week." 
Canales also addressed the question of what he thought was the most important goal as president of the GSU. 
"Graduate Students have a right to be recognized as mem­bers of this University," said Canales, "by allowing more Graduate Students to get in­volved in the GSU, this will be 1 possible." 
The other candidates also made promises of improving 
communication,  increasing  
participation  and  providing  
strong leadership.  

Other GSU business included committee reports, constitu­tional amendments and _changes in the bylaws. 
The elections were held in the Foster Room of LaFortune Stu­dent Center. 



Wednesday, March 22, 1989

~2 ~~~
~i;E.-=....___________________________.:_:...:..::......::..:=:..:....:..=..:.....___IIl¥tl•1ti•JIIVJII­
IN BRIEF 

Country singer Crystal Gayle says she and sister Loretta Lynn are discussing doing an album and touring the country together. The two have shared stages only a few times over the past 15 years. They appeared together last year at Lake Tahoe, Nev., and will work there three times this summer. "I think she would like to do some slowing down, and I think she mentioned she'd like to just do touring with me if she's going to do much," said Gayle, who added that a third sister, Peggy Sue, will be included in the album and tour. -Associated Press 
Greek premier Andreas Papandreou speaking about his much-criticized love affair for the first time, said that his 34-year-old live-in girlfriend was a source of life for him. "She gives me faith and hope in life and shares my joys and sorrows.... She is my invaluable companion," Papandreou, 70, said in an interview Pl!b­lished in the April Greek edition of the French magazme Marie Claire. Papandreou has been lambasted by Greek politicians, commentators and comedians for flaunting his affair with Dimitra Liani. -Associated Press 
Jesse Jackson planned to push voter registration, and it pushed him back. Jackson had to report to criminal court Monday for jury duty when his name was selected from the voter rolls, said Eric Easter, a spokesman for the former Democratic presidential contender. Jackson was supposed to be in Washington to testify before a con­gressional committee that voters should have the right to register on Election Day, Easter said. The judge excused Jackson after four hours without hearing a case, and he made his date on Capitol Hill. -Associated Press 
King Fahd of Saudi Arabia who rarely uses his 
27-bedroom home overlooking Lake Geneva, has 
succeeded again in efforts to keep neighbors at a distance. 
Federal authorities ruled that despite legal restrictions on 
the sale of real estate to foreigners, the king may add 1.5 
acres to his' 5.4 acre plot. In return, 2 acres owned by the 
royal family in a less attractive section will have to revert 
to Swiss ownership. Geneva state authorities had opposed 
the purchase of the additional land. King Fahd said he 
needed it to accommodate a security staff for his family 
members' visits, which last a few weeks each year. ­
Associated Press 


OF INTEREST 

Grad student life series continues today at 7 p.m. with a workshop headed by Professor Timothy O'Meara. He will be speaking and holding a Q&A period on "The Development of Graduate Studies at Notre Dame." Notre Dame Room, 2nd Floor LaFortune Student Center. 
-The Observer 

US Sprint Telecommunications Services is looking for Independent Marketing Representatives. Net­work 2000, authorized marketer of US Sprint, invites you to a business opportunity meeting on March 28 from 3:30 to 5:30p.m. in the Career and Placement Services Con­ference Room in the library basement. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 

Design Editor, . ............ Kathy Gliwa Design Assistant . . . . . Karen New lore Typesetters . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mike Kolar ............................................. Chris Malin News Editor .................. Christine Walsh Copy Editor . . . .... Missy Weber Sports Copy Editor .......... Scott Brutocao Viewpoint Copy Editor ....... Mike Truppa Viewpoint Layout .......... Moira Fox Accent Editor ................ Colleen Cronin Accent Copy Editor .......... Matt Murphy Accent Designer.. . . . . . . . . . . Alison Cocks Typists...... . . . .... Rosi day , .......... , ...,,...... ,.,.. , ....... " e Bar n ND Day Editor " ....... ...... .. a thy Burns SMC Day Editor ............ Alissa Murphy Business Page Editor ......... Tim O'Keefe Business Page Copy Editor .. Mike Kolar Business Page Layout ..... Janice O'Leary 
ne Olllerftr (USPS S99 2~) is published Monday throuah Friday accpt durin& cum aDd v~eation periods. ne ot.ner is published by the studcnu of the University of Notre Dame aDd Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writina ne Olleener, P.O. Boll Q, Notre 
Dame, llllliana 46.SS6. 
0 .... 

ne Olllerftr is a member of ne Allodallll rr-. All reproducuon n...u are raened. 


Democracy needs justice in South America. 
Recent events in Central and South America have shown just how precarious democracy is. Good old U.S.-style democracy won't work there unless there is also economic and social justice. 
The right-wing ARENA party won the recent presidential election in El Salvador. This is troubling, because the party and its founder, Roberto d' Aubuisson, have been linked to the country's feared and hated death squads. 
In Venezuela, one of the regions' most stable democracies, huge riots recently rocked the capital, killing hundreds. The people were pro­testing the government's new program of eco­nomic austerity, which was instituted because of the crushing weight of foreign debt. 
Not everything is so bleak. This year, there will be elections in Peru, Bolivia, Chile, Brazil and Paraguay, some of which promise to be the freest in years. 
Elections alone are not enough, however; the events in El Salvador and Venezuela show why democracy needs justice in order to work. 
In El Salvador, Duarte's old Christian Dem­ocratic Party was the perfect example of what the U.S. likes. They respected people's rights, they weren't extremists and they were allies to the U.S. 
Unfortunately, despite $1.5 million a day from the U.S., they were unable to stop a brutal leftist guerilla insurgency, and the average citizen was economically worse off than when Duarte gained power. ARENA might be linked to death squads, and maybe they won't be as freedom­loving as the Christian Democrats, but they promised to get tough on the guerillas and to get the economy moving again. . 
It's reminiscent of Weimer Germany m the 1930s. It was one of the most democratic gov­ernments in history, but people hated it anyway beacause the economy was in shambl~s. The German people embraced Hitler instead, because he promised prosperity and a tough anti-Communist program--and he 

Both appeal, not to people's desire for freedom, but to their need for land, food and peace. It's not clear, either, that this is wrong. The "freedom" that we promote is a terribly hollow things if it is not accompanied by social and economic justice. Does anyone really care about free elections when starving to death, or tied to a tiny strip of land with no chance of escape? 
Before the people of Central and South America will wholeheartedly support our vision of democracy, they must believe that a demo­cratic government can deliver the goods, and make a meaningful difference in their lives by improving the economic and social systems. 

delivered. As a country, the U.S.'s focus has been too 
Freedom is an abstract concept; hunger is narrow. We seem to think that its enough for a immediate. When people are given a choice be­country to have free elections. This is impor­tween freedom and food, freedom almost al­tant, but for democracy to work and be ways loses out. meaningful, it must be within a society that is 
We can see this in action in Central and South not oppressive, and an economic situation that America right now. Communist guerillas prom­does not degrade and starve people. ise sweeping land reform and economic justi~e. If we want to improve the situation to our In response, the military cracks down, pro~Is­south, we must work to promote justice, and ing order and peace from the constant ftghtmg. not only democracy in a narrow sense. 
The Observer .. 
• 

Chicago Hair Cutting Co.s 
AMERICAN 
CANCER




f MARCH
SOCIETYS 

PERM SALE 
Sa1e Oates: March 1st through March 31st 

s 
so· 
REG. '34.50 
I 
SAVE SS 
{/ [j)(S0(J] @@[j 

Shannon (f)flf)(S{/[l!}@[jJ (S(!]f] &/ [j!lJ@[jjJ[fJ@@ 
Amsterdam 

Frankfurt Mishawaka Indian Ridge Plaza 
London (Next to Venture) Tel Aviv 
Grape Rd. 
Budget Fare. Each way based on round trip 

277-7946 
from Chicago. Some restrictions apply. Call for FREE Student Travel Catalog. 

Hours: Daily 9-8 PROFESSIONAL Sat. 9-6 Sun. 11-5 PERMS
ZOTOS 

•Hair longer than lhoukter length $10 addiUonal. ©Copyright Chicago Cut & Perm t988 
~--------~~---~----------~---------------~------~-~ 
Wednesday, March 22, 1989 The Observer 
page 3 


AP Photo

Striking together 
Continental Airlines flight attendants join Eastern Air-tinental flight attendants went on strike on Monday lines mechanics and pilots on the picket line at to protest low wages, poor working conditions and Newark International Airport on Monday. The Con-no contract in over five years. 
Associated Press 
HARTFORD, Conn.-Five men charged in the $7.1 million Wells Fargo robbery didn't commit the heist itself but were part of a network that planned the crime and spirited the money to a violent Puerto Rican nationalist group, a pros­ecutor told jurors Tuesday. 
In closing arguments of the five-month trial, Assistant U.S. Attorney Carmen Espinosa Van Kirk said the government had proved that the key defen­dant planned the theft and helped Wells Fargo guard Vic­tor Gerena, who stole the money from a company depot, flee the country. 
"We're not claiming he was in the vault with Victor Gerena," Van Kirk said of defendant Juan Palmer, 39. 
"We are claiming that the evidence has showed that he as­sisted... in the taking of that money." 
The four other defendants either helped transport the money first to Massachusetts and then to Mexico, or used some of ·it to buy holiday gifts for poor children, Van Kirk said. 
"All of these acts are part of one big conspiracy," she said. 
Segarra, who spent 30 months in pretrial detention before his release on $1.5 mil­lion bail, said outside the court­room Tuesday that he has been prepared to go to jail ever since he became committed to the cause of Puerto Rican indepen­dence. 
He denies that he planned or participated in the robbery, but has conceded that he knew 
-Ihe-ObserYer-­
is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant News Editor Copy Editor 
For more information, call Matt Gallagher at 239-5303 or 283-1957. 
. 

c.Ihe Obser:ver~ 
is currently accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
ADVERTISING REPRESENTATIVES 
For more information, contact Molly Killen at 239-5303 or 239-6900 
Gerena and that he received the stolen money to distribute to Los Macheteros, a nationalist group responsible for violent acts against U.S. in­stallations in Puerto Rico. 
The five men have been on trial since Oct. 11 on charges stemming from the Sept. 12, 1983 robbery of the Wells Fargo depot in West Hartford, the second-largest cash heist in 
U.S. history. 
Nine other defendants are to be tried later and two, includ­ing Segarra's wife, have pleaded guilty to reduced charges. 
The government contends that Gerena, a fugitive believed living in Cuba, tied up two co-workers and stole the money, but that the robbery was plotted by members of Los Macheteros. 
Hall presidents-elect introduced, play revenues to go to Sowder Fund 
By CHAD KERLIN News Staff 
New hall presidents from those dorms which have already held elections were in­troduced at Tuesday's meeting of the Hall President's Council. 
Bill Weinsheimer and John Setzer talked about the upcom­ing "Great Hunger Clean-Up" which runs at the same time as the "Christmas in April" pro­gram. The idea is to raise money to help fund various 
Guides made for drug, alcohol tests 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The Su­preme Court, establishing guidelines to test for drug and alcohol abuse in the American workplace, on Tuesday ap­proved mandatory tests for some workers in sensitive gov­ernment jobs or entrusted with public safety. 
The justices, voting 7-2, up­held federal regulations forc­ing railroad workers involved in accidents to undergo blood and urine tests. By a separate 5-4 vote, the court ruled that the U.S. Customs Service can order urine tests for employees seeking drug-enforcement jobs or positions that require they carry firearms. 
The court ordered further lower court hearings to deter­mine whether the Customs Ser­vice rules also should apply to workers with access to classi­fied information. 
While the two cases do not deal with random drug testing, the court gave government of­ficials and regulators broad powers to require tests for workers in sensitive jobs. 
Bush administration officials hailed the rulings. Union offi­cials who had challenged the mandatory tests said they were disappointed but some ex­pressed hope the impact would be limited. 
Justice Anthony Kennedy, writing for the court in both cases, said such tests do not vi­olate workers' privacy rights even though they may be con­ducted without a court warrant or a suspicion that an individ­ual is using drugs or alcohol. 


Tuesday afternoon as the sailing club practices, Mike Thoman and Megan McManus, on the sailboat, capsized moments earlier and were instructed to safety. 
community organizations, such as soup kitchens and nutrition programs. Anybody interested should contact their hall president or dorm repre­sentative to "Christmas in April". 
Kevin O'Connor, president of Cavanaugh Hall, announced the upcoming Cavanaugh play, "Don't Drink The.Water". All donations will go to the Sowder Fund, named for the late Andy Sowder. Sowder was hall pres­ident of Cavanaugh when he 

is currently accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
OTS Typesetters 
flexible morning hours must be able to work with computers For more information, contact Observer Typesetting Service Manager Angie Bellanca at 239-5303 or 283-3878 
died of spinal meningitis in 1979. 
The hall established a schol­arship fund in his name which goes to Cavanaugh hall stu­dent, preferably from the Texas area where Sowder's family lives. Cavanaugh puts on a play every year to contrib­ute to the fund. 
The council also discussed the Sowder Award, a rotating trophy that is presented an­nually to the dorm that shows the most unity, spirit and ac­tivity. 
Nominations for "Rector of the Year" were also discussed. 



page 4 

Math teachers say skill is improving 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The nation's math teachers on Tuesday released standards designed to make sure pupils learn to ex­plore and reason as well as add, subtract, multiply and divide. 
"Our children are interna­tionally competitive in... arithmetical skills," said John Dossey, chairman of the stand­ards commission of the Na­tional Council of Teachers of Mathematics. "It is in the application of mathematics in geometry, measurement and data analysis where our stu­dents are falling short." 
Dossey, a math professor at Illinois State University, cited studies showing basic skills have improved over the past 20 years. ''Yet today only about one-half of American 17-year­olds can say whether 87 percent of 10 is less than 10, greater than 10 or equal to 10,'' or figure out how much carpet is needed to cover a floor, he said. 
The council's curriculum and evaluation standards, a collec­tion of 54 guidelines for kinder­garten through high school, were two years in the making and aim to raise the level of applied math skills. 

"Applied mathematics is not just for a couple of geniuses in the country," said Sally Ride, a Stanford University physicist and former astronaut who ap­peared at a news conference with the math teachers. 
She said the new standards should make applied math ac­cessible to all students but teachers, parents and students "will have more work to do. The country is going to have to make it a higher priority." 
Generally, the standards seek to ensure that students value math, become confident in their abilities, solve prob­lems and learn to communicate and to reason mathematically. 
Tom Romberg, a University of Wisconsin mathematician who headed the council's school commission, said the challenge of how to motivate students "was central to our thinking. To many students, math is a very dull subject., 


AP Photo

Afghan prod for mines 
Afghan anti-communist guerrillas are being taught to prod for mines by an international team of mine clearing experts. Estimates of the number of mines in Afghanistan vary wildly from 5 million to 30 million. 
Testing all children for high cholesterol levels not necessary say health organizations 
Associated Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif.-Doctors will resist testing every child for unhealthy cholesterol levels, despite a study that sug­gests two-thirds of youngsters at risk of heart disease go un­detected, experts said Tues­day. 
"The study is great" but fur­ther research will be needed to convince pediatricians that all youngsters should get a blood cholesterol test, said nutritionist Mary Winston, a senior science consultant for the American Heart Associa­tion. 
"These (heart) diseases clearly begin in childhood and progress," said Dr. Gerald Berenson, cardiology chief at Louisiana State University Medical Center. "The problem is how to get the pediatricians interested in beginning preven­tive cardiology in childhood." 
The study was presented Monday at the American Col­lege of Cardiology's annual sci­entific session by Dr. Dennis Davidson, chief of preventive cardiology at the University of California, Irvine. 
He said testing all school children would let doctors "detect all children in the up­per ranges of high cholesterol and help families change their diet to lower the risk to the children." 
Correction 
In the March 21 issue of The Observer, an article ran on p.5 about a speech by Dr. Clemens Coreth. The head­
line  incorrectly  reported  
Coreth's  title  as  Austrian  
General  Consul.  Coreth's  

correct title is Austrian Con­sul General, as stated in the story. 
The Observer 
----~---------------­
Wednesday, March 22, 1989 


Associated Press 

WONJU, South Korea-Some of the U.S. soldiers taking part in annual "Team Spirit" exer­cises with South Korean forces are puzzled and angry about growing anti-American protests in a nation they are helping to defend. 
The exercises involving 200,000 South Korean and U.S. troops are becoming increas­ingly controversial as South Korean radicals demand an end to the U.S. military pres­ence in their country. Opinion polls indicate many ordinary South Koreans have growing reservations about it. 
"Many young American sol­diers think the same as the Koreans-they don't want us here and we don't want to be here," said an officer, who declined to be named. "They want to go home." 

Some U.S. officers and sol­diers say anti-Americanism is creating morale problems, and some don't want to serve in South Korea because they don't feel welcome. They ask why the United States makes a massive defense commitment to a na­tion where protesters regularly attack U.S. government facilities and stage violent anti­American protests. 
A U.S. officer who asked not to be identified said radical stu­dents hurled firebombs at an American unit during the exer­cises around Wonju. The bombs caused no damage and the protesters fled in a car, he said. 
"It left a funny feeling," he said. 
"The command position is that anti-Americanism is a minority view, and the com­mand doesn't want to hear anyone publicly opposing that position," a U.S. Air Force of­ficer said in an interview. "The command keeps saying, in ef­feet, 'Turn the other cheek.' That's not working. Anti­Americanism seems to be in­creasing and, after a while, you get tired of it. " 

'Beer baron bill' prevents brewers from having exclusive distribution 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-A senate committee heard more than four hours of testimony Tues­day before sending a contro­versial "beer baron bill" to the full Senate for further action. 
The Senate Agriculture and Small -Business Committee voted 7-3 for House Bill 2055, which would repeal an Al­coholic Beverage Commission rule prohibiting brewers from establishing exclusive beer dis­tribution territories would prevent them from shopping around for the best prices for beer, and that would drive up consumer prices. 

Gordon Hitchings, who owns a package liquor store in Brownsburg, said choosing a wholesaler is a business deci­sion he should be able to make for himself. 
He added that if he were forced to buy from only one dis­tributor, he would not be able to take advantage of competi­would prevent him from ex­panding his business to other parts of the state. 
"We don't want to be forced into a restricted area. We want to grow," he said. ­
Supporters of H.B. 2055 argued it would preserve the health and competition of In­diana's beer industry. They also ·said competition among breweries would hold prices down. 



Wednesday, March 22, 1989 
The Observer page 5 
Murder case prompts newer death penalty law 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-An Indiana House committee approved a proposal Tuesday to make it easier for prosecutors to seek the death penalty for mur­derers who had previously been convicted of attacking their victims. 
Reacting to the recent case of furloughed prison inmate Alan Matheney, the House Courts and Criminal Code 
Chinese leaders seek to control inflation by curbing growing economic sectors 
Associated Press 
BEIJING-China's leaders on Tuesday announced new con­trols and taxes on the liveliest sectors of the ailing economy: private businesses, rural fac­tories and free-market farm­ing. 
Economic and budget reports delivered to the Na­tional People's Congress, the legislature, further tightened the screws on economic growth six months after the govern­ment began a major austerity drive. 
Vice Premier Yao Yilin told the congress, in the second day of a 16-day annual session, that even some needed projects in energy, transporation and raw materials processing may have to be scrapped. 
Committee voted 11-0 for aver­sion of Senate Bill 562 that in­cludes the tougher death penalty language. 
Jeff Modisett, Gov. Evan Bayh's executive assistant for public safety, said the Mathe­ney case pointed out "a glaring omission in the death penalty law." 
Matheney, 38, was serving an eight-year prison term for bat­tery on his ex-wife, 29-year-old Lisa Bianco. According to 
trolled, he said, and imports of some goods that can be made at home will be restricted or barred. He did not cite exam­ples. 
Finance Minister Wang Bingqian announced a draft 1989 budget that would increase state spending by 9.8 percent to $79 billion. It would contain a $2 billion deficit, less than in 1988 due to new sales and busi­ness taxes. 
Yao, head of the State Plan­ning Commission, said the aus­terity measures were needed to control "excessive price hikes due to overheated economic growth and overinflated social demand." 
Inflation is running at a post­war record annual rate of 36 prosecutors, he used an eight­hour pass ·rom the Correc­tional Industrial Complex on March 4 to go to Mishawaka, where authorities claim he beat Bianco to death with the butt of a shotgun. 
St. Joseph County prosecutors are seeking the death penalty. However, under current law, the prosecution would have to prove Matheney guilty of both murder and an accompanying charge of bur-
The President's puppies 
First dog Millie nurses her litter of six pups Saturday Barbara Bush serving as a midwife, according to a 
glary in order to get the death penalty for Matheney, said Rep. Jesse Villalpando, D­Griffith. 
Current law specifies that a murder be committed in con­junction with one or more other felonies before the death penalty can be applied. 
Villalpando's amendment, supported by the Bayh admin­istration, would allow a death sentence to be obtained for a murder conviction alone if the defendant had previously been convicted of battery, kidnap­ping, criminal confinement or a sex crime involving the same victim who was killed. 
"With this amendment, you wouldn't have to prove a bur­glary or an underlying felony" that happened at the time of the murder, said Villalpando. 
The amendment was added to a bill on felony drug sen­tences. 


after giving birth at the White House with first lady spokeswoman. 
Jeanne Philip 
an incident in 
-Wednesday, March 22 -6-8 pm 
-Dooley Room, LaFortune Student Center 
In Indianapolis, the Depart­ment of Correction announced plans to fire two prison officials for their roles in releasing Matheney. Bruce Helming, a unit manager at the prison, and John George, a counselor at the facility, will be fired within 10 days unless they can show why they should not be dismissed, said prisons spokesman Vaughn Overstreet. 
Helming and George had been suspended without pay pending the outcome of a closed-door hearing Monday. 
Three other prisons officials received unpaid suspensions. 
Lou 
continued from page 1 
ly," he said of his recruiting criteria. 
He said that he wants the new recruits to feel fortunate to be here, respect the people here at the University, and then find out where their best talents and abilities are. 
"Goals are so important," Holtz said. "We want to be the best in the country," he said, "but never at the expense of. ..running an honest pro­gram, or our integrity or academics." 
"We came here to be the best that we can be with the parameters set forth by the University," he added, "!think we've done that without com­promise.'' 
When  asked  how  long  he  
might  remain  coaching  at  
Notre  Dame,  Holtz  said,  

"That's in God's hands. . . I don't want to do anything else but coach, and I don't want to coach anywhere but at Notre Dame." 


p~agiC:..e..:::._6_____________T_he_Observer Wednesday, March 22, 1989 

Business
Wednesday, March 22, 1989 
page 7 

Surging inflation may cause recession this year 
Associated Press It was the worst back-to-back worries on Monday with White inflation news in nearly eight House spokesman Marlin 
Inflation Jitters
WASHINGTON-The recent years and it sent stock and Fitzwater telling reporters that spurt of inflation is raising bond prices plunging as inves­a number of recent business fears of a recession, with some tors worried that the Federal reports paint a picture of a 
0.6
economists predicting Monday Reserve would be forced to slowing economy which will be that a downturn could begin in drive interest rates higher in enough to break any inflation­
0.5
the second half of 1989. an effort to dampen demand. ary pressures. 
Ill 

These analysts believe that Markets continued to be bat­But private ecoomists said 
Ill =0.4
the Federal Reserve, faced tered by inflation worries on fears were now so widespread 
a: 
uwith alarming news of increas­Monday, with the Dow Jones in­that the Federal Reserve will 

! 0.3
ing price pressures, will dustrial average of 30 stocks be forced to take actions that 
... 
z

squeeze credit so tightly that down sharply again after the will likely send a variety of con­
Ill 

0.2
u

an economic slump will be all 48.57 point drop on Friday, sumer and business interest 
a: 
Ill

butjnevitable. which had been the worst rates higher. 
II. 

0.1
"Once you get inflation up to decline in nearly a year. "We are looking at poten­
the levels we have right now, On Tuesday, the government tially the worst inflationary 
it has taken a recession to cool reported that consumer prices bout since the late 1970s and 
things off. That is an unfortun­rose a moderate 0.4 percent. early 1980s," said Allen Sinai, 
ate fact of life," said Bruce Analysts attributed this mostly chief economist of the Boston 
Steinberg, senior economist at to a drop in clothing costs and Co. "It is a policy problem of SOURCE: Jan. '89 Economic Report The Observer 
the New York investment firm slower increases for food. Al­immense proportions for the rates higher in an effort to keep David Jones, an economist 
of Merrill Lynch. though the report helped calm Federal Reserve and it will re­inflation from getting out of with Aubrey G. Lanston & Co., 
Inflation worries were some of the inflation fears grip­quire sharply higher interest control. a government securities 
heightened last Friday when ping financial markets, many rates and potentially a reces­Some economists com-dealer, predicted that the 
the government reported that economists said they were still sion to deal with." plained that the Fed was too Federal Reserve would boost 
prices at the wholesale level concerned about underlying in­Starting a year ago, the tentative, especially in the the discount rate, the rate it 
had shot up a full percentage flationary pressures. central bank, under Chairman second half of 1988, and now is charges to make loans to fin­
point for the second straight The Bush administration Alan Greenspan, began faced with the need to slam on ancial institutions, two or more 
month. sought to play down inflation gradually nudging interest the brakes. times in coming months. 

NO accounting dept. rated 6th 
Survey also finds Arthur Andersen top firm 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame's undergraduate accounting program is ranked 6th in the nation in a poll that also reveals that Arthur Andersen & Co. is regarded as the firm with the best over opportu­nities for an undergraduate student starting a career in public accounting. 
The school placed high in a survey that rated all undergraduate accounting programs nationwide. Andersen, for the eighth straight year, was first in all four judging categories: service to clients, tech­nical reputation, career opportunities, and staff training. 
. The annual poll by Public Accounting Report, a biweekly newsletter, queried department chairman at U.S. colleges and universities. They were asked to rate the best accounting schools as well as the Big Eight and second-tier accounting firms. Of those that reponded, 85 percent were department chairman, 11 percent accounting faculty, and 4 per­cent did not specify. 
Arthur Andersen had an average score of 9.31 in the survey, followed by Peat Marwick at 8.81, Ernst & Whinney at 8.71, and Price Waterhouse at 8.55. Andersen's scores in the four categories were: ser­vice to clients, 9.33; technical reputation, 9.35; career opportunities, 8.89; and staff training, 9.65. 

Anheuser-Busch promotes restraint in Spring Break ads 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS-Spring break has arrived and college kids are rolling out the barrels. 
But Anheuser-Busch Cos., parent of the worlds largest brewery, is urging restraint. The company spends millions of dollars each year promoting what it calls "responsible drinking" programs. 
Some are considered partic­ularly relevant this time of year, when students descend upon resort cities from Miami to Palm Springs and indulge in brew-guzzling marathons that aren't particularly welcomed by the locals. 
The St. Louis-based brewing giant says it is committed to keeping customers from over­indulging. The number of re­sponsible drinking programs sponsored by the company nearly equals the number of its brands. 
According to a recent For­tune Magazine survey, Anheuser-Busch ranks first among beverage companies in responsibility to the commu­nity and environment. 
At first glance, Anheuser­Busch's sobriety theme in the spring break pilgrimmage south by winter-weary college kids might have the unwanted side effect of forfeiting part of this lucrative market. But it ap­pears far more successful than the sophomoric partying theme by rival Miller Brewing Co. 
Miller recently scrapped what it now concedes was a poor-taste ad campaign for spring-break getaways after college students complained it was sexist and they threatened to boycott Miller products. The brewer's supplements in col­lege newspapers last month featured pictures of bikini-clad coeds clutching Miller bottles and tips for "sure fire ways to scam babes." 

Lloyd Bentsen steers his own course in economic affairs 
By LOUIS RUKEYSER ever heard from the other three, Tribune Media Services either. Bentsen, at 68, may be getting too 
Now that Sam Nunn has lost his title long in the tooth to achieve his own as every Republican's favorite Dem-presidential ambitions, and that alone ocrat, many in Washington seem anx-could add to his credentials as a sym­ious to shift that title to Lloyd Bentsen bol of something long missing in --but the wily old Texan is not so sure Washington: intelligent bipartisan-
he wants it. 
Bentsen did finally cast one of only three Democratic votes in support of fellow Texan John Tower, but the Democrats' 1988 vice presidential candidate tells me that in economic affiars, where his influence may be stongest in the Senate, he is deter­mined to chart a highly independent course. 
In the end, that could in fact add to his power to affect the nation's pock­etbook, a power that is already, ironi­cally, considerably greater than it would have been if qe had one the job for which he was nominated last year. As the old story put it, a woman had four sons; one becam~ vice president of the Ur ited States, anct nothing was 
.'. 
ship in economic policy. 

One obvious example is legislation to promote capital investment, which when all the partisan shouting has evaporated remains the most certain key to better future jobs for Americans. Dan Rostenkowski, who as House Ways and Means chairman is the counterpart of Bentsen as Sen­ate Finance chairman, did his best to torpedo a cut in capital-gains taxes by demagogically threatening to raise the top percentage income-tax bracket in retaliation. 
That has led to Washington reports that President Bush, whose proposal for a 15-percent rate on capital gains has so far been treated with disdain, would revive the proposal by making Bentsen his point man on Capital Hill. Bentsen says, in effect, no thanks. 
Such an alliance would be histori­cally facinating. Not only was Bentsen half of the team that Bush-Quayle defeated last year, but Bentsen first won his Senate seat in 1970 by beating. .. George Bush. Against all the odds, they have remained remarkably civil. 
And it's unmistakably true that, on economic policy, Bentsen and Michael Dukakis were the odd couple of the decade. The Texan did not demur when I asked him the other day how hard he had to bite his tongue during the 1988 campaign while the head of his ticket "talked as if reducing the capital-gains tax was a class war issue that would benefit only the rich." 
Bentsen acknowledged "in all can­dor" that he had indeed worked hard over the years to reduce that tax, and he maintained that the results had been "effective" and "helpful." 
But he's not about to let the 
Republicans off the hook, either. He 
noted acerbically that the Reagan Ad­ministration itself urged the 1986 in­crease in the capital-gains rate, asserting that the change would "pick up $21 billion in revenue," and that there was thus something peculiar about the Bush team's now claiming that a reduction in the same tax would "pick up $16 billion." The Republicans "just can't have it both ways," Bentsen declared. 
So, while his heart obviously is with 
Bush's arithmetic rather than Reagan's, Bentsen says he's going to withhold even his own personal deci­sion until he sees more convincing evidence that reducing the capital­gains tax--without raising other rates --will truly shrink, rather than enlarge, the federal deficit. 
Bentsen's overriding concern, he insists, is that deficit. And he does not conceal his contempt for what he regards as Bush's unrealistic eco­nomic assumptions, notably in simul­taneously forecasting robust growth and lower interest rates. 



Viewpoint 
Wednesday, March 22, 1989 

page 8 
P.O. Box Q 
Editor values work at Scholastic 
Dear Editor: 
In Chris Donnelly's March 17 Inside Column, he made a major error in in­terpretation that I would like to correct. While making a vague and incorrect allusion to an article I wrote in the Feb. 16 issue of Scholastic, he wrote that I had felt, as outgoing editor-in-chief of Scholastic, that I wouldn't wish the job on my worst enemy. 
First of all, the sentiment that former Scholastic editor wouldn't wish the job on his worst enemy was indeed in the story. It was, however, a quotation. It was identified as such with quotation marks. Also, the passage was attrib­uted clearly to its author, Jake Morris­sey, Scholastic editor for 1978-79. Mr. Donnelly, as someone who has worked with quotations in his jobs at The Ob­server, undoubtedly is aware that just because a writer quotes someone else in an article that it is not necessarily the writer's own belief. 
Second, directly above the quotation he mentioned a headline which read: "Although being editor-in-chief of Scholastic is not all that it is cracked up to be, it's not that bad either." So, obviously, the tone of the piece was hardly as negative as Mr. Donnelly would like to think. In the article, I characterize Mr. Morrissey's state­ments as "immature," but say that I can empathize with him. There's a dif­ference between empathy and total agreement. 
Although the piece Mr. Donnelly mentions is hardly great writing, it was praised by many students, faculty members, and area journalists. It is the subject that is important. The majority of these compliments came from people I did not know, but who recognized me from the accompanying photo. It's clear that it wasn't exactly a pleasant piece, but the feelings hit home. Mor­rissey was immature, but read his words and you can't help but think: if you have high standards, you will be frustrated, you will be disappointed. And I'm not afraid to admit, I was 
frustrated  and  disappointed  some­ 
times.  
At  the  same  time,  working  for  

Scholastic was the single best experi­ence of my college career. More edu­cational than classes. More fun than watching the national championship season. Mr. Donnelly is right. It would be "a shame" if I felt "after many years of hard work," including an un­precedented two years as editor-in­chief of a weekly Scholastic, that my work had little value. 
Kathleen McKernan Scholastic Editor-in-chief, 1987-89 March 18, 1989 
Christmas in April serves the needy 
Dear Editor: 

As you probably already know, "Christmas in April" is quickly ap­proaching. This program can be defined as South Bend's combined response to those in need within the local community. The actual service to the neighborhood involves weatheriza­tion, electrical work, construction, painting, and yard spring cleaning ac­cording to need, targeting about 50 homes. The volunteers, skilled and un­skilled, combine the efforts and com­munities of South Bend and the Univer­sity of Notre Dame. 
If you have not had the opportunity to get involved in this one-day service project and you are interested, we urge you to contact your hall president, com­munity service commissioner, or your "Christmas in April" commissioner as soon as possible before the Easter break. Thank you. 
Mary Susan Twohy Frank Timons Student Government Community Service Commissioners March 20, 1989 
Volleyball club hits national scene 
Dear Editor: 

Since the 1980 Olympic Games, the sport of volleyball has increased tremendously in popularity. Once thought of only as a sport played by sun-tanned Californians, volleyball is now played all over the United States, including the Midwest. This year Notre Dame sports one of its best teams ever. As a club team, we were ranked No. 9 in national preseason club polls. Since then we have been steadily improving, while making a name for ourselves on the national level. Over spring break we traveled to California and won 2 of 3 matches including a victory over No. 2 (club)-ranked Cal State San Bernar­dino and our first victory over a varsity team in Chapman College. 
We, the Notre Dame Men's Volleyball Club, would like to invite all Notre Dame-Saint Mary's students to come watch men's volleyball action as we take on No. 7 (club)-ranked Michigan Wolverines today at 7:30 p.m. in the Joyce ACC pit. Our coach, Bill Ander­son, is going for his 100th career victory as volleyball coach at Notre Dame. 
We think you will enjoy our match and we hope to see you there. 
Thomas P. Martin Notre Dame Men's Volleyball Club March 20, 1989 
'Cousins' mocks sacred marriages 
Dear Editor: 

I must respond to the review of the 
recent movie "Cousins" in the March 
16 Observer. Kelly Tuthill described the 
retaliation taken by Larry and Maria 
against their spouses, who are having 
an affair, as "innocent," "centered 
around family gatherings, including a 
few unconventional weddings." I kept 
waiting for Ms. Tuthill to mention that 
the "innocent" and "platonic" 
friendship between Larry and Maria in­
evitably becomes what they have ac­
cused their own spouses of: an exercise 
in infidelity. 

The deeper message that this movie 
conveys is that marriage is merely a 
social convention designed to meet the 
status quo, of no great significance and 
devoid of commitment. I resent the im­
plication that this is fine entertainment 
for intelligent young people. This "al­
ways entertaining" movie, quite con­
trary to its surface comedy, makes an 
absolute travesty out of the sacred in­
stitution of marriage, and for this rea­
son should not be taken lightly. 
Agee looks to gain unmerited support 
Dear Editor: 
Poor Phillip Agee. Like a handful of his contemporaries, he remains stuck in the tired, wornout jargon of "blame America first." His song has not changed a note in years. Are we to take 

)
his word that we can be "as sure as (our) own name that the CIA is working with death squads in El Salvador?" I wonder where he got his information from? The Kremlin? Managua? Maybe his long-time benefactor Fidel Castro? Mr. Agee piously remarked that even though he could not affect CIA policies, he "could weaken the execution of the policies." That he did by publishing the names and addresses of CIA agents and oepratives. I wonder what Mr. Agee would tell Charlie Welch's widow about how those policies were weakened by the murder of her husband at the hand of communist terrorists? Only the CIA itself could tell us the untold numbers of operatives who simply disappeared. 
Mr. Agee castigated the University because when he was an undergraduate here in the 50's, Notre Dame "didn't have speakers like me here." Need we remind him that in the 50's the moral fabric of this country was such that a traitor was called a traitor and the media had not yet begun to glamorize those who chose to do wrong? After a while Agee's whine of "surveillance" and "exile" loses its novelty and he begins to sound like one of those indi­viduals who, after having a moment in the sun, continue to crave attention and will do anything to get it. Like most of his ilk, he presents no evidence, other than emotional baggage, to support any of his numerous accusations. Former President Reagan was in charge of death squads in El Salvador? And no one knows this but Phillip Agee? 
That Phillip Agee can speak freely at this campus, in this state, in this country is the best argument against much of what he says. I am a profes­sional military officer because I want everyone to have that same freedom, even Mr. Agee. 
John D. Warren, Capt., USAF Assistant Professor of Aerospace Studies March 16, 1989 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau Quote of the Day 

'In skating over thin ice, our safety is in our speed.' 
-Ralph Waldo Emerson 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303  Editor-in-Chief .................................... Chris Donnelly  Business Manager ............................... Rich Iannelli  
Managing Editor .................................. Regis Coccia  Advertising Manager .............................. Molly Killen  
Exec. News Editor ...................... Matthew Gallagher  Advertising Design Manager ......... Shaonon Roach  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board.  Viewpoint Editor .................................... Dave Bruner Sports Editor ....................................... Theresa Kelly Accent Editor ........................................... John Blasi Photo Editor ............................................. Eric Bailey  Production Manager ............................ Alison Cocks Systems Manager .............................. Mark Derwent OTS Director ................................... Angela Bellanca  "  
Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column  
space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged.  Founded November 3,1966  


------------~-~----------­
Accent
Wednesday, March 22, 1989 page 9 
DOREEN BROWN accent writer 
I 
t's located in the Australian outback. I made my way to this desert environment to make my fortune. For you see, I'm in Coober Pedy (pronounced 'kupa piti'), the opal capital of the world. 
Coober Pedy, an Aborigine name meaning "white fel­low's hole in the ground" originated in 1915; a man named Willie Hutchinson found "floaters," pieces of opal on the ground, and the town began to rise. By 1916, opal miners began to settle. 
Coober Pedy is magical, as it is the last frontier of the wild outback... 
The days here usually reach 113 degrees and at night it becomes unpleasantly cold and the atmosphere is of a ghost town. But the harsh desert environment and ex­treme temperatures have in­spired the residents to find an alternative style of living. 
One-third of the townspeople live underground in dugouts. They are insu­lated and maintain a confort­able temperature. Some are rather luxurious with electricity and wall to wall carpeting. Also underground, you can find a bank, hotel, shops, underground Potteries, an Anglican Catacomb Church, and two Catholic Churches, and the Old Timer's Mine. 
You can see the whole town in a day by walking or taking a tour. I did both. For only $7 (Aussie), I took a three-hour tour. Being that the town is virtually untouched by tourism, I received a private tour. My guide, Tom, was an 

'Keep an eye out' for the Trident Naval Society 
IAN MITCHELL accent writer 
H 
ey, where are all those navy-types parading off to, nighttime maneuvers? Maybe, it could just be an­other meeting of the Trident Naval Society. 
In the words of its charter, 
Calvin and Hobbes 
HI, CALVIN. 

DOWN UNDER 

Opals are not the only treasure found in the Australian outback town of Coober Pedy 

the Trident Naval Society is a campus organization formed "to enhance the professional development of midshipmen.'' Club President Jim Streicher states that the club serves a number of purposes: "ser­vice, social and military, 
we're a mixture of the 
three." 

In the area of service, the club has cooperated in the past with Habitat for Humans, a group working to improve South Bend area housing, as well as joining with many other campus groups to sponsor the Charity Ball. Member Todd Flynty describes the social activities 
~lllT APILL 'fOO ARE! WHAT " .ltRK.! wru., 'tt\.\0 tHI>S 
'f()(J !./ '(00 ~ .lllSf stOO 'MRE. AAO BE GRUMP'! Mi. 8~ 'iO.IRSE\J"·' 
I 
Bill Watterson 
opal miner. But who isn't in this town? We visited opal fields (over 30 of them), which produce over 90 per­cent of the world's opals, then underground to see the town and his house, and we ended with a demonstration of opal cutting and polishing. 
My favorite part of the tour was when I went noodling in the mullock heaps with the Aborigines. I used my hands to sift through the rubble at the top of Tom's mineshaft. If you're fortunate, you may find an opal that was over­looked by the miners. I found a few patches (rocks with colorful patches of opal) but nothing of any real value. 
"The Aborigines," Tom says, "tell me where opal deposits are and they are usually right. They can see things that the white man can't." To actually go focssicking (mining) in Coober Pedy you need to get a license, which is easily ob­tainable from the Mines de­partment in Adelaide for an annual fee of $25 (Aussie). 
When viewed under light, opals release a spectrum of color. The color of opal is a major contributor to its value. The colors start with black (the best), then red, blue, and yellows. Classifica­tion of opals include solid (the best), then doublet, triplet, and potches. Coober Pedy is 
best known for its milky 
white opal. In 1956, an opal 
was found at Coober Pedy 
and sold for $1.7 million. 
Most everyone has seen Coober Pedy. For it was at the "Breakaways" that Mad Max III was filmed. The "Breakaways" is a spectacu­lar area with colorful hills and a dusty lunar landscape. 
Coober Pedy is magical as it is the last frontier of the wild outback and can make a penniless person into a mil­lionaire overnight. 

as "like a fraternity." This year on April 28 the Trident Society is holding "Dining Out," a semi-formal dinner at the Ramada Inn with guest speakers. 
Although the club mainly consists of Naval ROTC mem­bers, some activities have a broader appeal. The club sponsors lectures throughout the year; recently the mem­bers invited John Rontz, designer of the Voyager aircraft, to campus. Voyager is the plane that went around the world without stopping or 
refueling, a feat of aeronauti­cal engineering and daring which set a world record. 
Another lecture the club 
sponsored was conducted by a 
NASA official. Other lectures 
do have a more definite naval 
appeal; "We have admirals and military speakers come to educate members as to what it's like to be in the Navy," said club president Streicher. "We try to balance out the education in ROTC." 
The club plans to be busy in the final months of the school year: a two-man nine-hole golf tournament and picnic is scheduled for April 9, and at 

6: 30 pm on April 4, the club will conduct "Sea Stories," a ­storytelling competition held in LaFortune which invites people to come and invent the ultimate sailing yarn. 
So keep an eye out, and maybe next time the 110 ·~ members of the Trident Naval Society get together for a meeting, you'll join the parade instead of just letting it pass you by. 

page 10 The Observer Wednesday, March 22, 1989 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts cfassifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is
Classifieds 3 p.m. All cfassifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 1 0 cents per five characters per day. 
NO JASON if I had any guts it wouldn'tLost: Brown leather jacket at NAZZ. Last ADOPTION-Caring, financially secure SMC MANAGEMENT CLUB MY PSYCHO WEEKEND'S TOP 10: have had to be Secret in the first place.
name MRUZ in back. Please call Lisa couple of Irish and Swedish ancestry PRESENTS 10. CAN I PUSH YOU IN YOUR STOOL? 
right?
NOTICES 

x1338. 
wish to love, cherish, and raise your new­DOUG MOSELL , 9. LIZARD, DO THIS! born child. Legal and confidential. Please "THE ART OF LEADERSHIP" 8. WAITER, THAT MAN HAS AN AU­TYPING AVAILABLE call Linda and Craig COLLECT: 212-877-MARCH 29 THORIZED CHAIR. SPRING JEWELRY FLING 287-4082 3574 HAGGAR PARLOR, 6 PM 7. I'M SO CULTURED NOW. This week at SMC. • 
FOR RENT 

6. YOUR TONGUE IS GREEN! Wide selection of handmade jewelry.
iooi>r:·ii~ii.P"iiY'·;;;~;;:~"d;p-;~;;;;~·,~·~~i 
5. UTILE BUNNY FOO-FOO Monday-Wednesday 9am-5pm. NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for couple wishes to provide wonderful 4. STEVE'S GOT THE LOOK. Haggar Game Room CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash HOUSE NEAR CAMPUS AVAILABLE home, secure future, much love for 3. WAS IT "MINOR" LIZ (NO PUN IN­or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK FOR RENT UNTIL AUGUST. 232-3616. while n-born. Legal. Expanses paid. Thanks Guys!!! I had the best Birthday TENDED)! Party W The Backstreet Blues Band 
Call us collect 212-517-2696. ton1ght at McCormick's Coney Island and 
808 Howard St. just off of N.D. 2. I CAN'T SEE. 
ever! You're the Greatest! Marilyn, Gina, 
Furnished ROOMS-$12tltno; 2 BDRM Friday at the Chicago Cafe.
Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 1. THAT IS POSSIBLY THE COOLEST
Celest, Will, John, Paul, Dave, Steve,233·2342 HOME-$2801no, 3 blocks from campus COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: Out­
THING I'VE EVER SEEN. 272-6306 standing brothelislster sports camps HAVE YOU MISSED HEARING FROM 
Wordprocesslng-Typlng on larges1 lake In New England near THANKS FOR A MEMORABLE YOUR FAVORITE ARKIES? HERE ARE Brad, Alka and Everyone Else! Love, Me 
GOT SPRING FEVER??? DIVE INTO
"ON GOLDEN POND" site seek staff. SOME PERSONAL ADS FROM THEM­Anyone wanting to rant a Turtle Creek ALL TRAVEL PAID. Call Collect: -SENT TO YOU COURTESY OF STU­272-8827 WEEKEND, EVERYONE!
MUD VOLLEYBALL AND SLIDE INTO 
LOVE, ME Apartment during the summer months Roblndel (girls) 215-884-3326, DENT GOVERNMENT'S FOREIGN RE­
ULTIMATE FRISBEE SIGN UPS WED. 
MARCH 22 6-8 P.M. DOOLEY AM. LOCAL SWIMMING POOL COMPANY LAFORTUNE AN TOSTAL'89 HAS OPENINGS FOR FULL-TIME
Photographers needed contact Lisa at # 4886. Wlnaukee (boys) 203-227-4387 or see LATIONS COMMITIEE· 
Amateut1>rofesslonal for Australia. us on Thurs., Mar. 30, 10:30 AM-2PM The ice cream man has flown with Big EMPLOYEES OUTSIDE WORK.
National Institute of Exploration GRAD STUDENTS, 3 BD. FURN. at LaFortune. Jim and been fooled by the Jack of SKYDIVING SEASON BEGINS APR 1 GREAT EARNING POTENTIAL. CALL 
Hearts--Staten Island SubwayJune 20.July 13. Cost $3,300 

HOUSE. CLOSE TO CAMPUS, SECUR­································································ 
IF INTERESTED CALL DEAN 287-3024 SERGIO'S SUNGOD POOLS, 287-9283 
Ramada Inn of Elkhart has rooms for Someone tell Sporleder and Morse-For­Graduation weekend. Minimum stay 2 tier that the Rome Arkies say HI! 
Call Bruce 219·733-2170 ITY CONSCIOUS. CALL 289·8539. 
FOR APPT ARE YOU DRIVING SOUTH FOR
nights with $100 deposit per room. WILLIAM DENNIS GUSCHWAN has NO ARKIES! NO ARKIES! OINK, EASTER BREAK? I NEED A RIDE TO
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL Send letter to 3011 Belvedere Rd., come of age!!! He's the resident existen· SHORT! KAHLUA AND SEX DANCING? 
ATLANTA OR ANYWHERE CLOSE
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. WANTED Elkhart, IN 46514 or Call219-262-1581. lialist,the Holden Caulfield of the 80's, CIAO!--A ROMAN HOG 
(NASHVILLE OR BIRMINGHAM)-·WILL blood brother to Vincent van Gogh, ap­EMILY LAWSON EMILY! Hey M. Don't 
H~i~;;;··i··~~-~·;;·~··;;d~--i~·r;i·ii~"b~·;;jt,"("j;f.. HELP PAY FOR GAS AND BEER FOR have tooo much your freshman year! Get 
Local Not-For-Profit Organization has prentice to Leonardo da Vinci, soulmate 
THE TRIP.. I CAN LEAVE THURSDAY
Openings for Qualified Persons in our RIDE NEEDED to Nashville lor Easter Turnpike 6) on 3-29 or 3-30. VERY im­lo Roger Waters and the next Albert rocked. Go dancing! Be philosophical il 
MORNING... CALL ANN AT 49281F YOU 
Residential Homes. Residential Assis­Will share expenses.Call Christina 239-portant!! Will help with gas and toll. Mike Schweitzer. Who knows what another 21 you feel. .. Love E (I miss you) 
CAN HELP!

tants-Substitutes Provides care and treat­7424 4141 years will do to him? Don't let that hot Duncan McRoberts. what is going on ment for Developmentally Disabled body go to waste, ladies! Corrupt him with you and my mom? I know everything. 
Don't ask people what they did for break 
aduns. Rexible work schedules. Valid NEED BABYSmER ON SATURDAYS I NEED A RIDE TO WASHINGTON D.C. before his brillianl mind gets the best of Ciao. Tulane 
whal they're going to do for Easler
Driver's License and Transportation FOR 15 MO. OLD. TRANSPORTATION OR VIRGINIA (CHARLOTIESVILLE) or him Crummy, Ea~y. Warner and other 
Break. It's really getting old. And if youneeded. Full-time, Part-time. and Sub­PROVIDED. PLEASE CALL 271-8564. FOR EASTER BREAK. WILL SHARE can't think of anything better to say, just
stitutes. Reply to: LOGAN 1235 N. Eddy, $$$. CALL ROSI AT 3567. To the person whose car I backed into Crummy, Early, Warner, and other 
shut up. You'll be a better and much more 
Folkies--all roads lead to Rome, via interesting person for it. 
P.O. Box 1049, South Bend, IN, 46624, WANTED on March 17 call Bill x 2346 
lreland!--KJH ING last weekend. I'll make it up to you at the RIDE NEEDED FOR 2 TO PIT­"Elsewhere is a negative mirror. The 289-4831 PEOPLE INTERESTED IN PROMOT­Vicky, Sorry I behaved like such a jerk HEY MOLLY YOU GUYS JUST CANT 
traveller recognizes the little that is his, GET ENOUGH AND I AM GLAD YOU
CULTURAL AWARENESS AT NOTRE CHARITY BALL. TSBURGH OR NEAR. CAN LEAVE 
discovering that he has not had and willDAME Don THURS AFJER 12 PLEASE CALL 2147 
HAVE f'INAL COME TO GRIPS WITH 
never have"--Marco Polo--KH' LOST/FOUND I CIAO Moo!--Murph, Ooo, and Koo
Apply in Student Activities Office KATHYRYN
YOUR SEXUALITY. LOVE MARY
TODAY Multicunural Executive Council Chris Carroll-enjoy your paper HELL Anyone going to INDIANAPOLIS for 
John Patino's little brother is hot. MULTICULTURAL EXECUTIVE COUN·
LOST-BLACK CUMMERBUND AT TAl­while I bask at home. cb. Easter Break, I need a ride, will pay gas. Ida-Ho-Potato, Annie, Mara. & Newt--! MILITARY FORMAL!! call BRET x1389 GIL expenses. Call Colleen at x3764. miss your faces' KIMMY 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS 
DIETRICH--I loll on violent evenings-­WEDNESDAY MARCH 29HELP! I NEED A RIDE TO MPLS. FOR Melissa Ann Gorham--I may have injured 
Found: Set of keys near Rockne Mem. EASTER. WILL PAY$. PLEASE CALL my leg .... sad but true.. at least I did not START BREAK EARLY AT yours 
Pick up application in Student 
CINDY-Chin up! Just remember Activities Office, 3rd floor LaFort Call 2485 to identify. MARY 284-5443. appoint myself love goddess of the USS BRIDGET'S some­
body in Rome loves you! Love ya, TimRanger.. AND, I still play better b-ball WITH 
LOST LOST LOST BUILDING STRUC­CAMP MILLHOUSE NEEDS than you. MCG. CORVALLIS CALLING Attempted scam at VOFI California
TURES TEXTBOOK GREY AND WHITE WATERFRONT, NATURALIST, FINE Wednesday Mar. 22 from 9:30 to mid­
MMUL TICUL TURALCOUNCILMU-
Dreamin', we're back stage!! I'm a lover, LTICULTURALCO UNCILMUL TICUL­COVER HARDBOUND PLEASE CALL ARTS, MALE COUNSELORS. ROOM, SENIORS: STOP AT CAREER AND night 
not a fighter--where to next? TURALCOUNCILMUL TICULTU TERRY X2706 I REALLY NEED THIS BOARD, INSURANCE, TIME OFF, PLACEMENT TO CHECK OUR Special Guest Appearance by: 
BOOK!!! COMPETITIVE PAY. JUNE 9-AUGUST HOUSING! ROOMMATE The Surtin' Generals Finnigan Woman: Now is the time to Re­
19. LEA 234-1169. "INFORMATION EXCHANGE". member, 'cause it will not last forever. LOST: set of 3 keys on brass class of 
. I miss you tons! Love ER 1987 key chain please call Betsy 284-To all those Catholics in Bad Stand ing 'To the guy who went to the 12th Floor EX PW QUAD & KTOC, loves ol my life, GOING TO ANN ARBOR 
FOR EASTER?4294 if found the GROOVE is still standing & # 1 al with me Tuesday around 2:15 Want to I miss you guys. Anyone for Euker? ER
Want me 2 pay 4 your gas?NO meet again sometime? Keenan 6 & all those related--drink an
TAKE ME WITH Ull CALL KAREN
FOR SALE
LOST IN ALUMNI HALL AT IRISH Old Swill for me. I'd do the same but

x3719
WAKE: small black purse with F-1 love you.-B FORTUNATELY it's non-existant here!

Mary Beth-embroidered flowers. Keys inside # 224, Miss you! END TOASTMASTERS!!!!! Happy Birthday!! There are woo no lb. PLEASE call 4228 at NO. GOVERNMENT HOMES! From $1.00 (U KREG ACTION JACKSON JACKSON NO TOASTMASTERS!!!!! woos that are calling your name! We love To Dave, Kevin, Don, Kitz, and the sop­Repair). Foreclosuras, Repos, Tax Have a great birthday even though you NO TOASTMASTERS!!!!! you! homores or the g clan-CIAO from Lost: an ID case somewhere between Delinquent Properties. Now Selling made your last date angry since you PLEASE contact Bob (# 3318) at any Sarah and Kara Roma-AII Man LaFortune and the St. Louis St. block This Areal Call (Refundable 1-315-733­
CIAO DENISE' Grazie for the cookies party on St. Pat's day. Keep the money 8084 Ext G2382H For Currant Listings! 
wouldn't scam with her time regarding this wednesday's 
-THE SECTION we miss you!! but please return the license and key. GET THE CAREER EDGE! Understand
meeting. The meetmg depends on 1t 
Call X4421 or drop at PE. The roon no. ROUNDTRIP TICKET TO ALLENTOWN, NO TOASTMASTERS!!!!! to day's economic superpower. Register 
CIAO! Marlene, Mare, Tommy, Corbs, is on the key PA. LEAVE THURS.(:¥.!3) RETURN for JAPANESE language stuy at NO lhis
NO TOASTMASTERS!!III To the pig who ate five potatoes at NOH Monica, Joey, Juliana, Gina, Missy,
NO TOASTMASTERSIll !I
MON NIGHT CALL # 4966 summer! WE ARE! L. M. & S. H.
Mon.: why didn't you eat the skins? Googs, and Miki-san ... I miss you! Love Lost--A small black tote umbrella. It was 
from Roma, Lucylost in the employee coat pile at the loot­To a thoughHul person,
Nakamichi 2Head Tapedeck-$200 In­I SURVIVED ST. PATS DAY 89 (Imagine this in Arkie handwriting) CIAO ball dinner. If found please call Greg-Thank you for the roses! or
any senior not usimg all four graduationfinity 2Way,100W Speakers-$180 Tos­Mugs still available! Regazze "Heads"! How's 151? (BP
lickets please call 1413 will pay $$
1402 -Love,
hiba Compact Disk Player-$85 Teac If interested, call Stacy X4972 Bacardi) Rome-quad is great! Take care! 
................................................................ 
5Band Equalizer-$30 Call # 1667, 7-or stop by Kno~ Hall Pete Italian wine is cheaper than water, but 
LOST: Medium blue rectangular suit­RIDER NEEDED to Purdue leaving
9pm. not the same without the POTTER! I miss 
case during Spring Braak. If any In­Thurs. afternoon. Call X2891. 
you Melean-­

formation, call 309-837-7567 or 309-································································ 
TOP 10 QUOTES FROM ME'S GROUP: 
Room 211 Walsh--Italian ice cream is 837-1479 and ask for Mary Beth. 1. No more what?!??!! 2. Naturally!! 3.
GONG RATS Z BALLS WEEK Corractlon: 

KRIS AND KIM awesome, but my mailbox can't survive Reward & will pick up. Yesterday's in-stall-ment was in error. In Rag on L. W. session now begins. 4. Oh­
WALSH HALL CO-PRESIDENTS on it--hint, hint!
TICKETS 

acluality, it was Ted in the bathroom stall, 
lhose eyes!! 5. Staph has mutant Gund's. LOST: BLUE POLO JACKET AT CCE 6. S.F.G.!!!!! 7. Tracy is a crayon hog. 8.
& not in lhe men's but the women's room. BUILDING SAT. 3118. PLEASE CALL, I Call 3410 to see if Ted has straightened 
Flip and Steve Congrats on your win! I NEED A RIDE TO ST. LOUIS 
HELP !II Your hair poked me in the eye. 9. PUH­
Maybe we'll come visit you now! things oul with Z. for Easter, If you're going
NEED MY KEYS! THANKS. 284-4349. MUST GET 1 OR 2 GRADUATION TIX. LEEEZ!I! 10. It could be worse-we could please call Paul at 3610be pregnant.
END GO LOST: GOLD SIGNET (DMK) RING AT 
--· 
Thanks to the SMC women who made WED. NITE 
my birthday the best one ever!Y'all are Full Moon Full Pitchers
OR NEAR SENIOR BAR THURSDAY, SENIORS: AT CAREER AND
I need graduation tix real badly Need not STOP
the greatest and I love you all! Chick at MATEO'S
MAR. 16. PLEASE CALL DAWN 284-PLACEMENT TO CHECK OUR To Bob, Jim, and all who helped lo
be together, just any tix. Please call 232­
Magnel6220. Leave message HOUSING' ROOMMATE4349. on Ironwood work lor the Romanelli ticket, 
Live Guitar Duo 
"INFORMATION EXCHANGE". LOST black, stylish Ray-Bans in Senior HOPING TO ADOPT THE STONE PUPPIES Thank you all for your hard work 
I need Grad. fix 288-4160
Bar Sat. 3118. Not only were they expen­We'ra a happily married, financially TO MO THAT INCREDABLE SEX KIT­and sincere effort in our sive' but they were a gift from my room­secure couple with a beautiful home TEN I TOOK TO THE WAKE, I take off campaign for class office. mates giving them high sentimental HAVE A BALL AT my hal to you ... and maybe more-The 
and lots of love to shara with much­value. Please call Colleen 2682 or Mary wanted baby. If you ara pragnant and Stud (Don't forget the wine--Yowza!) John, Mike, Eileen, and Annie 1704. considering placing your baby lor THE CHARITY BALL
PERSONALS 

HEY-TO THE GUY WHO SMASHED MY
adoption, please call us. We can help Ya little punk, I can'l move in any more! 
WIND-MSHIELD AT THE ST.LOUIS 
-you, and you can help ua make our Fri., March 31
LOST a set of keys on St. Pat's night lives complete. Expenses paid. Con­BLOCK PARTY, I'LL MAKE A DEAL
between Senior Bar and PE. DESCRIP­You're so pretty--you have lovely hair! TION: bronze colored, metal and leather It's hump day, GET it Mike? fidential, legal. Call Deborah and WITH YOU. IF YOU PAY FOR A NEW David collect day or night at 312<935-ONE, I WON'T SHAVE YOUR MOM'S
malerial, design was a "D" with Mickey C'mon Cliff--we're goin' up lhe road. It's 
Mouse on it, room key, car keys, and 4088, or call our counselor collect at THE CHARITY BALL BACK AGAIN.CALL 288-4036
like huntin' .... 
hi ag 
31 Z28o-8744. Fri. March 31 8:30-1:30 Bass player looking for ANYONE to playluggage key call Debbie x4514. 
YOU DON'T LIKE ME! 
LOST: Long grayisMJiack Cassidy coat SUMMER JOBS GET YOUR EASTER BASKETS South Dining Hall serious R&EWUNK. Will jam ANYTIME. ALL LANDWATER SPORTS Call John A. 1803
.... 
with speckled colors. Lost on Saturday AT with the 18th. Contains ID and other valu­
PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS THE COUNTRY HARVESTER IN GINO Oh BR, the Lodge just hasn't been the 
Sara ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS MON-FRI, 12:00.5:30 and same since Louise left and we seem to ATIENTION IRISH PARTIERS!
ables. REWARD offered. Call at NEAR LAKE PLACID LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER THE GROOVE have forgotten a particular birthday I lost my key at St. Andrew's CALL 1-800-343-8373 TIX: Lafortune Info. Desk celebration. Don't fret, Young Gamon, church on Fri nile. Do you have 4825. 

keep a song in your heart and a smile it? PLEEEEEASE call 2866. THANXLOST; Black suede San Francisco Bay or SMC Dining Hall 
Make this Easter most unique. when the and dorms on that mole face of sunshine ... And how 18th. Very recognizable. REWARD of­Easter Bunny hops down your street! per­Semi Formal aboul a hubcap for that cute little Linda, I Will personally award you fered. Call Sara at 4825. Scap!!! (Use it) sonalized deliveries, 255-3355. sparkplug? giant sum. -Ed hal with brown leather trim. Lost Saturday 
Tennessee BB coach resigns 
Associated Press 

KNOXVILLE, Tenn.--Don DeVoe resigned Tuesday after 11 years as head coach of the University of Tennes­see basketball team, saying the move was "an effort to stop the persistent rumors surrounding my status." 
DeVoe gave the reason for his departure in a letter to athletic director Doug Dick­ey, who called a news con­ference for Tuesday after­noon following news reports that DeVoe was about to be fired. 
Women's tennis to take 
By BARB MORAN Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's tennis team, at . the halfway point in their season, will face Western Michigan today in an attempt to better its 9-4 record. 
Despite the strengths of Western Michigan, and Notre Dame's sloppy play against Purdue last weekend, Irish co­ach Michelle Gelfman is op­tomistic about today's match. 
"We're on a roll, we've had six wins in a row and we're feeling good," said Gelfman. 
"I'm confident about the up­coming match." 
Gelfman expects strong com­petition from Western Mic­higan's Amy McClure and also from the bottom of the Western Michigan squad. 
"We have to be careful about not underestimating them <Western Michigan) on the bot­tom and playing them strong on the top, and hoping that our doubles play isn't as spotty as at Purdue," said the Irish coa­ch. 
Against Purdue last Sunday, a seemingly inevitable win for 
on Western Michigan 
the Notre Dame women was jeopardized when all three Irish doubles teams lost their second sets. Two of the duos battled back to victory in their third sets, giving Notre Dame the win, and giving Gelfman added confidence. 
"Even though our doubles teams had to play gutsy, scrappy tennis to beat Purdue, we still won. I have a lot of con­fidence in our doubles teams and I know I can count on them to come to always come through in the end," said Gelfman. 
Gelfman will have to rely on her team's depth today against Western Michigan as player Kristy Doran, due to a knee in­jury, will most likely only com­pete in singles. 
The doubles team of Tracy Barton and CeCe Cahill is cur­rently ranked 20th in the na­tion. 
"I'm very pleased about the ranking," said Gelfman. "It shows a lot about how hard they've worked and where they and our whole program are going." 
~~--~----~ ~~---­
----------------~--~------------------------------------------------­
Sports Wednesday 
Wednesday, March 22, 1989 page 11 
1at Round:  2nd Round:  Regional a  
March 16-17  March 18-19  
MIDWEST  

Mln..apolls, Minnesota March 24 & 26 
3 
14 
7 Florida 
·i:~:::g;;~;;:~~;~t~~-~~-~~:-~~
~--·-·········-~)'~~-J Syraruse 104-8J···--'~'::'""""'""" 
15 Bucknell ··--··········--··--·-·-·· 
.............................. 
SOUTHEAST !__________0!\l<Jh!!!N] Oklahoma 72-71 
!~----~~).!!!!1-')_-__S)_. ····-····················-] 
8 La Salle 
;::~:~~~~;i;.:~l---~---!.~-~--_7~ 
5 ~ Viminia
·········f··········---·•····] Virginia 100-97 
t:::z:-;.;:_~.;J-···· 
6 
Scoreboard 
Results for Mar. 15-21 Baseball (10-4) Notre Dame 5, Duke 4 
Men's basketball (21-9) 
Notre Dame vs. North Carolina A&T (rained Notre Dame 81, Vanderbilt 65 out) Georgetown 81, Notre Dame 74 Duke 8, Notre Dame 2 Notre Dame 5, St. Bonaventure 2 Men's tennis (13-7) Notre Dame 8, Marquette 1 
Lacrosse (1-4) Wisconsin 6. Notre Dame 3 Penn State 9, Notre Dame 1 (Penn State Tournament) Wrestling (1 0-3) Notre Dame 10, Lehigh 8 (Penn State Tourn­Notre Dame placed 21st at the NCAA Cham­
ament) pionships in Oklahoma City. 
.Sports Lists 
. 1. Earn a profit ($9,590.66) 1940 ••··. 2. "Final Four" at one site (New York City) 1946 •• ·• 3. Championship game on national TV 1954 
.·. ·4. Net income exceeds $1 million 1969 .· ·. 5. "Seeding Process" used for teams 1978 ' 6. Public lottery used for Final Four game tickets 1979 ..•.., 7. Conference allowed more than two teams 1980 
8. All selected teams subject to drug testing 1987 
The Observer 


Happy Birthday, Mol! 
Love, Your Spring Break Buddies 
NCAA Tournament Colleg~ Baseball 
Reglonals  2nd Round:  1st Round:  
March 18-19  March 16-17  
EAST  
Georgetown  1  

~!.~t()~-~-~~t;~;~~~::::::::::::::::i:~
~r91!!!1'!¥'! ..(

l 
Vanderbitt 8 81-74 Notre Dame [-----------------··--····---·---· 
81:65"'''"'"''""' ~-~----·-------~ 
..................... North Carolina State 5 
N.C. State 81-66[--··--··----·-·------------------· 
.-....................... .f?!?!!!!!.9!!!!!!i!'!!!........~-~ 
.I'LQ,_!?!!!!~... Iowa 4 
102-96 ( Iowa 87-73 [ .................................. 
-------------------·:--·---~u_t_~~------------------1-~. Elost Rutherford, New Jersey Kan St 1 6 
March 24 & 26 

"!i~-~~!~.~:~~--[~;~:~~-e:: .....:::i:i. ~in_ll!lso.lll 
Stanford 3 
80-67 Siena 80-78 [ .................................. ----------------·-·-·--!?.~!1!L ...................~-~ 
-................. 

Duke _70~---~~ v;,;•• ""'t[;':!;': :;~
l I 

Duke 90-69  [ ................................. .  
........  · ..  ·-·  ~h Carolina St.  __ 1_5  
·  Arizona 94-601...................... Arizona 1 , ...................................... Robert Morris 16  

~-~~~()1_!~~~ ~~~:~;~~:.::~;~;;;:::::::;
Clemson 83-70 
---------------------· .9.1.l!m~n...................~ DePaul 66-63 -~!!~_l?!)!~.~lll-'1!..........~
1 ..........................,DeP 
I 12 
~~~-~-~~:!.?... ~~:~~-~;;;;~----~ti -~r.~L_~-~:~-------r;;;;;:::::::::::::::::::::·~; 
Denver, Colcndo Oregon State 6 March 23 & 25 Evansville 94-90 , .................................. ................__________ E 'lie 11 
:i~j-~!!1!..... ~:::~;;·---------------~
-~-~~~-~!~-~:~~-~;.·~---~~~~-~~-.-----~~ .. UTEP 85-74 ~!~;.;~;:~~~:::~::> 
ndiana 92-69 ,.......................... Louisiana State 10
I 

..... ---------·--' !~~~-~-?.!~-~------1~~~::;~: ........~; 
NHL Standings 
WALES CONFERENCE Adams Division 

W  L  T  GF  GA  Pts.  
y-Montreal  50  18  7  295  211  107  
x-Boston  33  27  14  266  235  80  
x-Buffalo  34  32  7  270  280  75  
x-Hartford  33  35  5  269  269  71  
Quebec  25  41  7  249  314  57  
Patrick Division  
x·Washington  37  26  10  273  231  84  
x-N.Y. Rangers  36  30  8  293  279  80  
x-PiMsburgh  36  31  7  316  320  79  
Philadelphia  33  33  7  282  259  73  
New Jersey  25  37  12  254  297  62  
N.Y. Islanders  24  44  5  240  301  53  
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE  
Smythe Dvlslon  
w  L  T  GF  GA  Pts  
y-Calgary  48  16  9  325  209  105  
x-Los Angeles  37  30  6  350  314  80  
x-Edmonton  36  31  8  308  288  80  
Vancouver  32  34  8  229  224  72  
Winnipeg  24  38  11  281  329  59  
Norris Division  
x-Detroit  32  30  12  293  293  76  
St. Louis  28  34  12  258  270  68  
Minnesota  26  32  15  245  261  67  
Chicago  25  37  12  279  309  62  
Toronto  25  43  6  237  319  56  
x-clinched playoff berth  
y·clinched division title  

AP Graphic/ R. Dominguez 
NBA Standings 
New Vorl< Philadelphia Boston Washington New Jersey CharloMe 
Cleveland Detroit Milwaukee 
Atlanta Chicago Indiana 

Utah Houston Denver Dallas San Antonio Miami 
L.A. 
Lakers Phoenix Golden State Seattle Portland Sacramento 

L.A. 
Clippers 


Eastern Conference Atlantic Division 
w L 
44 21 
35 30 
33 31 
30 34 
23 43 
16 49 
Central Division 48 17 45 17 41 22 39 26 37 26 18 46 
Western Conference Midwest Division w L 41 24 36 28 35 30 31 33 18 47 10 54 Pacific Division 45 19 41 23 37 27 37 27 31 32 19 46 13 51 

Pet. .677 
.538 
.516 .469 
.348 
.246 
.738 .726 .651 .600 .587 .281 
Pet. .631 
.563 
.538 .484 .277 .156 
.703 .641 .578 .578 .492 .292 .203 
ESPN I Collegiate Baseball Poll 
The top college baseball teams in the ESPN1 Collegiate Baseball poll, with first-place votes in parentheses, this season's records, total pomts and previous week rankings. Notre Dame opponents are 
italicized. 
1. Texas A&M 26·1 498 1 2. LSU 22-3 495 3 3. Wichita St. 18-1 489 10 
4. Texas 27·6 488 2 
5. Miami 20-6 483 6 
6. Arizona 22·8 479 8 7. Arizona St. 23-8 478 9 B. California 21-5 477 7 9. Mississippi St. 11·3 469 5 
10. Oklahoma St. 13-3 464 11 11. Long Beach St. 24·3 461 4 12. South Florida 21-5 458 12 13. San Jose St. 24-3 452 14 14. Clemson 16-2 449 19 15. Houston 27-2 446 20 16. Cai.St.-Full. 17·6 442 16 17. Arkansas 16·4 440 18 18. usc 23-9 437 17 19. Florida 19·8 434 13 20. Fresno St. 17-10 429 21 21. Florida St. 20·8 426 15 22. Georgia Tech 14-6 425 22 23. UNLV 22·7 419 23 24. Jacksonville 18·3 418 27 25. Oklahoma 9-5 412 26 26. Notre Dame 10-4 409 25 27. SW Louisiana St. 26-6 403 24 28. Nichols St. 21·2 390 29 29. Michigan 6·4 389 30. Aubum 17·6 384 
Baseball 
National League 
w L Pet. St. Louis 12 5 .706 San Diego 11 5 .688 Cincinnati 10 8 .558 Atlanta 8 7 .533 Los Angeles 10 9 .526 Pittsburgh 10 9 .526 San Francisco 8 11 .421 Philadelphia 7 10 .412 New Vorl< 7 11 .389 Houston 7 12 .368 Montreal 5 10 .333 Chicago 5 14 .263 
American League 
w L Pet. Toronto 14 4 .778 Cleveland 14 5 .737 Minnesota 10 7 .588 Texas 10 7 .588 Kansas City 9 7 .563 New Vorl< 10 8 .556 Oakland 10 9 .526 Milwaukee 10 11 .476 Seattle 8 9 .471 California 8 10 .444 Chicago 11 15 .423 Baltimore 7 10 .412 Detro~ 7 10 .412 

GB Boston 5 12 .294 
10.5 13.5 21.5 28 
9 Sports Calendar 
Home games in CAPS 

Wednesday 6 Women's tennis at Western Michigan 9 10 
1.5 
Thursday

29.5 
Women's basketball vs. Toledo at Amarillo, Tex. Baseball at Butler (2) 

GB Women's softball vs. ST. JOSEPH'S OF RENSSELAER 
4.5 6 9.5 
Friday 23 Men's tennis vs. MIAMI (OHIO) and NOR­
30.5 THERN ILLINOIS 
Saturday 8 Baseball at Indiana 8 Lacrosse vs. HARTFORD 

13.5 
4 
Men's tennis vs. INDIANA STATE 

26.5 
Track host Notre Dame Invitational 32 Women's softball vs. DAYTON (2) 
Sunday No sports scheduled. 
Monday Women's softball at Butler 
Tuesday No sports scheduled 

ff)OO're goi1~ todrink<uu drive at least let the ..-e.1 of lts kncM: 
Reader's Digest 



NIT WOMEN 
First Round 

Thursday at Amarillo, Tex. Toledo (21-6) vs. Notre Dame (20-9) Murray State (21-8) vs. Richmond (24-6) DePaul (22-8) vs. Oregon (19-10) Radford (23-6) vs. San Diego State (24-8) 
Congratulations 
Rick and Maureen 
On your Engagement Best Wishes from the Keenan Guys 
NIT MEN Second Round 

Monday's results Ala.-Birmingham 64, Richmond 61 Connecticut 73, California 72 Ohio State 85, Nebraska 74 Villanova 76, Penn State 67 St. Louis 73, Wisconsin 68 Michigan State 79, Wichita State 67 
-

-

page 12 The Observer Wednesday, March 22, 1989 
NL East reviewed: another year for the Mets 
Associated Press 
Five teams spent all winter trying to catch up to New York in the National League East, and the Mets have spent three weeks this spring helping them do it. 
All is not well with baseball's most successful team over the last five years. In that period, the Mets have won at least 90 games a year, averaging 97, yet have only one World Series ring to show for it. 
The Mets' toughest opponent seems to be themselves. 
On March 2, in Port St. Lucie, Fla., the uneasy battle for lead­ership on the club resulted in an ugly incident on team photo day when Darryl Strawberry took a swing at Keith Hernan­dez. 
New York Mets 
On offense, the Mets have very little over any team in the NL east but hardly any team in baseball can match the rota­tion of Dwight Gooden (18-9, 
3.19 ERA), Ron Darling (17-9, 3.25), David Cone (20-3, 2.22), Bob Ojeda (10-13, 2.88) and Sid Fernandez (12-11, 3.03). All five also had 25 starts or more. 
New York led the majors with a team ERA of 2.91 and allowed only 404 walks. 
Hernandez missed two months with a hamstring pull and Carter (.242, 11 HR, 46 RBI) went 225 at-bats without a home run as years of catching are finally slowing him down. 
Montreal Expos 

After challenging the Car­dinals in 1987, the Expos slipped last season to 81-81. For a while it seemed they would give the Mets a run, too, but a nine-game losing streak ruined that possibility. 
This team certainly has the talent and is probably the most balanced club next to New York in the division. 

Tim Raines (.270, 33 SB), Andres Galarraga ( .302, 29 HR, 92 RBI), Tim Wallach (12 HR, 69 RBI) and Rubie Brooks (.279, 20 HR, 90 RBI) give the Expos a formidable heart of the order. 
The Expos had the third lowest ERA in the majors at 
3.08 and may be even better this year. Gross joins a rotation of Dennis Martinez (15-13, 

Pete Rose accused in recent Sl article 
Associated Press bookmaker" and approached SI last week in hopes of selling 
NEW YORK -Pete Rose Peters' story. The magazine is accused of betting on said it declined. The Cincinnati baseball and could be banned Enquirer said it, too, turned from the game if the charge is down the story. proven, Sports Illustrated said "Of course, you understand in this week's issue. the commissioner has broad 
The magazine quoted an uni­powers to act in the best inter­dentified source as saying that ests of the game," said Rich the Cincinnati Reds manager Levin, a spokesman for the "exchanged signals somehow commissioner. relating to baseball betting" The absolute low point for from the dugout at Riverfront baseball was the result of gam­Stadium. bling. In 1919, several Chicago 
SI also reported allegations White Sox players schemed to that the all-time hits leader fix the World Series. Commis­placed bets on baseball through sioner Kenesaw Mountain friends. Landis issued lifetime bans 
Under Major League Rule 21-against Buck Weaver, Ed d, if Rose bet on games in which Cicotte, Fred McMullen, his team was not involved, he Happy Felsch and Shoeless Joe would be suspended for one Jackson, although criminal year. If Rose bet on games in­charges were never proven. volving the Reds, he would be As the game's shady image banned for life. finally began to improve in 
In another report released 1922, pitcher Phil Douglas of Tuesday, Gentleman's Quar­the New York Giants was terly said that Rose was banned for life for his alleged rumored to have lost $13,000 in involvement in gambling. one day at a racetrack. Rose's The game got a rest from ex-wife and daughter describe gambling scandal for 25 years him in unflattering words in the before Commissioner Happy magazine's April issue, his Chandler suspended Brooklyn daughter calling him "the Dodgers manager Leo Duroc­world's worst father." her for the 1947 season for 
Karolyn Rose, however, said "incidents detrimental to she was misquoted in the story, baseball" --namely, his and said her former husband association with known "has never bet on baseball. gamblers. Never." "For a long time I had ques­
Rich Levin, a spokesman for tioned him," Chandler said. He the commisioner's office, said said he spoke with Dodgers baseball officials had no com­general manager Branch Rick­ment on the baseball betting ey, and "I said to Mr. Rickey, report, other than Monday's 'He's your man, you see to it statement that they were inves­that he's straightened out.' tigating "serious allegations" against Rose. Baseball's top of­"Finally I said to Rickey, let ficials were briefed on the in­me handle it. I almost made a vestigation Tuesday at a good boy out of him." meeting in Phoenix. It was more than 20 years 
Sports Illustrated, in its before another major baseball March 27 issue, said Ron figure was involved in a gam­-Peters, the owner of a restau­bling scandal. rant in Franklin, Ohio, 40 miles north of Cincinnati, has been In 1970, Commissioner Bowie linked to possible baseball bet­Kuhn twice suspended Detroit ting involving Rose. Tigers pitcher Denny McLain, It said that Alan Statman, the major league's last 30­Peters' lawyer, described his game winner, for associating client as Rose's "principal with gamblers. 
.•. ''! 
!_... _.. 

2.72), Bryn Smith (12-10, 3.00), games behind New York last First baseman Mark Grace 6-foot-10 rookie Randy Johnson season but they are still the hit .296 but he hit only seven (3-0, 2.42 ERA) and Scott Hol­team the Mets fear most. Per­homers in 486 at-bats and man. Pascual Perez (12-8, 2.44) haps with good reason. amazingly none were at is undergoing drug rehab and Three times in the 1980s the Wrigley. his playing status is uncertain. Cards went from NL cham­
pions to sub .500 the next Philadelphia Phillies 
Pittsburgh Pirates season. So last year's 76-86 
finish must mean big things for At 35, Nick Leyva is the 
It seems like the second­St. Louis in 1989, right? well, youngest manager in baseball. place Pirates are coming off a maybe. It's a good thing, because he super season, yet they finished Last season, the Cards stole will need lots of time to build 15 games behind the Mets. 234 bases to become the first this team into a winner. 
In their head-to-head compe­team since Detroit (1909-15) to 
tition with New York last steal 200-plus bases in seven In 1988, the Phillies finished season, the Pirates lost 12 of 18 consecutive seasons. last at 65-96 because the pitch­games. ing was horrible (lOth or worse 
Former G M syd Thrift Chicago Cubs in ERA, walks, strikeouts, thought the reason was the saves and complete games.) bench, so he went out and got There will be more night And, without traded top outfielders Gary Redus and games at Wrigley Field this starters Shane Rawley and Glenn Wilson and infielder Ken year and probably more losses Kevin Gross, the numbers Oberkfell. Management for the Cubs than in 1988 when might be even worse this year. thought he was spending too they finished 77-85. 
much and let Thrift go. Chicago went from 209 The rotation shapes up as 
He got outfielder Andy Van homers in 1987 to 113 last year. Bruce Ruffin (6-10), Don Car­Slyke (.288, 25 HR, 100 RBI) As a team, the Cubs hit .261 but man (10-14) and newcomers and catcher Mike LaValliere had trouble scoring runs. Floyd Youmans (3-6), Ken (.261, 47 RBI) from St. Louis, Howell and Steve Ontiveros. and pitchers Doug Drabek (15-The Cubs hope rookie Jerome 
7) and Brian Fisher (8-10) from Walton (.331 at Pittsfield) can The bullpen of Steve the New York Yankees. play center, joining Andre Bedrosian (28 saves), Jeff Par­St. Louis Cardinals Dawson (.303, 24 HR, 79 .HJ:H) rett 02-4 with Montreal) and 
and Mitch Webster in the out­Greg Harris figures to get lots The Cardinals finished 25 field. of work. 

-----------~ -­
Wednesday, March 22, 1989 
l 
I
Georgetown next team l 
I 
I I
for Valvano's Wolfpack I I 
Associated Press only 39.6 percent field-goal accuracy. 
RALEIGH, N.C.--The number 55 is "We have to be very concerned with lucky for North Carolina State in the the score," Valvano said. "We must be NCAA tournament, but Wolfpack coach in a position to win the game. We can't' Jim Valvano says .a higher number will run up and down with Georgetown." be even luckier in the East Regional. Lurking in the middle for Georgetown 
"I said for us to beat people, we have are Alonzo Mourning and reserve to shoot 55 percent," Valvano said Dikembe Mutombo. Mourning has an Tuesday. "We were fortunate against NCAA-record 160 blocked shots and South Carolina and Iowa to do just that. Dikembe 74, and that will limit people Whether we can do that against a team like Corchiani, who like to drive the like Georgetown, I don't know. But lane and pass off for the easy basket. we're certainly going to have to do it." 
"They're the most formidable team 
Rodney Monroe's long-range shoot­on the boards we've faced," Valvano ing, which resulted in a career-high 40 said. "They can block shots with people points, helped the Wolfpack to a 102-96 from different countries. victory over Iowa in a second-round "Mourning is precocious. In the game last Sunday at Providence, R.I. Princeton game, he got all the big buck­Monroe hit seven of 13 shots from 3-ets and hit all the key free throws," point range against Iowa, and hit four Valvano said. of six from beyond the 3-point line in an 81-66 victory over South Carolina. Then there's the constant pressure 
N.C. state hit 63 percent of its shots defense, led by guard Charles Smith, against the Hawkeyes and 57 percent which has led to 521 turnovers, an against the Gamecocks. The last two average of 16 per game. games have lifted the Wolfpack to 50 "They don't let you get into a rhythm. percent field goal accuracy for the They can turn up the defensive pres­season. sure, and if they've got the lead, they 
can try and force you to take poor 
To match those performances of the percentage shots," Valvano said. first two rounds, Valvano has asked "Then they swat it away." Monroe, Chris Corchiani and Brian Howard to sharpen their shooting eyes Valvano said if Mutombo and Mourn­because they won't get much chance ing are blocking a lot of shots, it means for layups against the Hoyas. Keeping the Wolfpack has strayed away from pace with the Hoyas is the next key, the game plan, which is to stay away 

especially since they allow opponents from the middle. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The men's varsity baseball team has postponed its doubleheader on the road against Valparaiso that was scheduled for today due to unsuitable field conditions. The games have been rescheduled for May 1st at Valparaiso. 
-The Observer 
In NBA Basketball last night, Detroit whipped Atlanta 110-95, Indiana beat New Jersey 92-89, Milwaukee got past Boston 98-86, and Denver edged Houston 112-110. In NIT tournament results, St. John's defeated Oklahoma State 76-62. -Associated Press 
Bengal Bout tournament tapes can be ordered today from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in Lafortune under the Bengal Bouts poster. For more information, call Mike at x3386 or Doug at x1627. -The Observer 
Men's Bookstore Basketball capitan's meeting is Tuesday, March 28 at Stepan Center. Any questions call Mike Manning at 283-3305.-The Observer 
SMC-ND women's lacrosse will have a mandatory practice today at 8 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. Call Maria at x2577 for more information. -The Observer 
The Volleyball Club hosts Michigan tonight at 7:30 
p.m. in the Joyce ACC Pit. Admission is free. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­tion. -The Observer 
Don't drink and drive 
SENIOR CLUB BILLIARDS 
9-BALL 
3-CUSHION BILLIARDS SNOOKER 
WE HAVE THE BEST "SHOOTIN" TABLES IN THE AREA, WITH A QUIET PLAYING ATMOSPHERE. EVERYONE PLAYS "POOL" AT THE: 
SENIORS CLUB BILLIARDS 603 E. WASHINGTON SOUTH BEND 287-7324 
OPEN MONDAY THRU SATURDAY 9 AM-? 
Indiana's Hillman, Edwards shine 
Associated Press to say, 'Joe, keep shooting.' them 78-57, and forced 30 turn­
"I may already have told Joe overs. 
INDIANAPOLIS, ln.--The to quit shooting but Edwards "These kids really have done 
leadership of Joe Hillman and tells him to keep shooting and a good job mentally and I've 
the unselfish talent of Jay Ed­Joe likes that. Joe said, 'You're always said the mental is to the 
wards have been the keys to a open, he gets you the ball, he physical as four is to one," said 
successful Indiana University rebounds. If we could just get Knight. "And mentally, all 
basketball season, Coach Bob him to go full tilt all the time.' year long, they've done well, at 
Knight says. But I've come to believe he least after our first six games. 
Knight, named coach of the goes full tilt a lot more than "When we've lost since the 
year Tuesday by the Big Ten you'd think because he's an ef­first part of the year we've lost 
Conference, is preparing the fortless player. playing hard and being ready 
Hoosiers to play Seton Hall on "With Joe's ability to lead to play and into the game.'' 
Thursday in the semifinals of and the feeling the kids have Seton Hall, 28-6, is next for 
the NCAA tournament's West for the kind of player Edwards Indiana, 27-7. Top-seeded 
Regional. is and the things he can do, we Arizona, 29-3, plays Nevada­
He traces the makings of In­just have a much stronger Las Vegas, 27-7, in the other 
diana's conference champion­team psychologically or men­semifinal. The winners meet 
ship back to last spring, just tally than a year ago. I don't Saturday for a trip to the Final 
before Hillman left think it has a single thing to do · Four in Seattle. 
Bloomington to join the Med­with what I've done." "I know they've got a real 
ford A's Class A baseball team In first-and second-round good inside game and a real 
for the summer. NCAA tournament games in good shooter in (forward 
"I brought Joe in and said, Tucson, the second-seeded Andrew) Gaze from three­
'Tell me about Edwards.' Joe Hoosiers shot .555 from the point range," said Hillman of 
said, 'Edwards is the best guy field, limited George Mason Seton Hall. "Their guards 
to play basketball with I've and Texas-El Paso to .445 (John Morton and Gerald 
ever played with. You miss a shooting, outscored them 47-27 Greene) are good athletes and 
shot, Edwards is the first gu>' at the foul line, outrebounded can take the ball to the hoop. 
Lindsey Knapp for the No. 1po­looking forward to continue his 
sition. outstanding special teams play 
Also, bolstering the offensive and provide leadership wher­continued from page 16 line in his final year of ever it is needed. Brennan seems to have the best eligibility is Tom Gorman. Gor­"The main reason I came chance to start as he is vying man, an offensive guard, is cur­back is to help the team for Andy Heck's quick tacle rently behind Tim Ryan at the anyway I can," said Belles, spot. The 6-5, 260 Brennan is quick guard slot. In the back­who believes he can tutor the battling Peter Rausch and field, QB!fB Steve Belles is two incoming fresman quarter­
back recruits. "They are not 

Seniors 
t'.........................................................................................................". 
going to come in and know the 

offense but I think I can helpIINVEST IN AN INTERNATIONAL I them mature in one year. 
Whatever role comes my way, ~ EXPERIENCE I I'll do it." 
Extra-point holder Pete

I AT SAINT LOUIS UNIVERSITY'S MADRID I 
Graham returns to the squadI CENTER SUMMER ANOOR FALL-SPRING I for his fifth year. The 6-3 
Graham looks to contribute on

~ 89-90 ACADEMIC YEAR. BUSINESS, I the prep team where he is
I I
ADMINISTRATION, HISPANIC STUDIES, reknown for excellence. 
Rounding out the list of retur­

I
~ POLITICAL SCIENCE, ETC. FOR nees is flanker Pat Eilers. Eilers who transferred from
~ INFORMATION ~ 
Yale after his freshman yearI PHONE 1 (800) 325-6666 ~ ~as moved from split end posi­........................................................:......................................................~ tion to team up with Raghib 
«Rocket" Ishmail to form an 
excellent combination of com­plementary styles at the 
-
flanker. 

page 14 The Observer 
Irish season finishes in style 
Basketball squad shows promise in seasons to come 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Editor 
The Battle to Seattle was cut short by Georgetown. 
Making the Impossible Hap­pen was made impossible by Hoya guard Charles Smith. 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball season ended the way so many fans have complained about in recent years--an early round loss. But this time, no one is complaining, because, unlike in recent years, this Irish team left the fans with hope and promise of things to come. 
The Irish played the top seed in the region--the second best team in the country--and nearly it them at its own game. 
Smith scored 28 points in the second half as the Irish lost in the second round of the NCAA Tournament to the Hoyas 81-74, ending the Irish season. 
"I think these kids have done an outstanding job," said Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps after the disappointing loss. "It was a challenge to go after Georgetown. We got a lot of confidence playing against them, and we have a chance again next year with everybody coming back. 
"I just wish we could start practice tomorrow." 

All season, the Irish had the excuse that they were too young--not a senior on the team, and six first-year players on a roster of 12. But that wasn't a way out for Notre Dame, which played its toug­hest schedule in several years. 
The Irish found leadership in co-capitan and team Most Valuable Player Joe Fredrick, who led the team with a 16.6 scoring average and 48 percent three-point shooting. 
Also taking control was co­capitan J a mere Jackson, second on the team with 13.5 points per game and the top de­fensive player on the club. 
"As young as we are and the inexperience we had," Phelps said, "Jamere and Joe Fredrick did a nice job of taking over the leadership." 
The Irish turned a deliberate style into a running game in just one season, due mostly to the presence of the underclas­smen. Elmer Bennett and Daimon Sweet hook up for many amazing dunks over the course of the season, while point guard Tim Singleton kept the pace quick as he brought the ball up the floor. 
Singleton's 195 assists ranks him second on the single­season assist list, moving ahead of the man whose spot in the lineup he took over, David Rivers, who had 163 in 1986-7. The record is held by Jack Meeha, who had 214 in 1970-71. 
The quiet man inside for the Irish was junior Keith Robin­son. The most consistent player on the team, Robinson averaged 12.7 points and 9.5 rebounds per contest. Robinson played in all 30 Notre Dame games this season and shot 52 percent from the floor. 
In contrast to Robinson, his frontcourt mate made a lot of noise for the Irish. Freshman LaPhonso Ellis, one of the top first-year players in the nation, brought excitement to the team, as well as 13.2 points and 9 rebounds per game. He also shattered the single-season blocked shot record, his total of 50 far surpassing the previ­ous mark of 31 by Orlando Woolridge in 1979-80. 
Another freshman, Keith Tower, stepped in when the Irish needed help inside. A 6-11 center, the aptly-named Tower came on strong in the second half of the season. 
"I thought the five freshmen were impressive,'' Phelps said. "That was really important for us, to see the type of team we could be down the road." 
Notre Dame's 21-9 record marked the sixth straight 20­win season for Phelps and in­cluded an early-season win over Indiana, the top team in the Big Ten, and a confidence­building 82-79 win over UCLA in Pauley Pavillion. 
The disappointments in­cluded an embarassing post­exam loss to "that little Lu­theran school" (Valparaiso), plus the fact that the Irish did not pull off a home upset in the late season, although they faced Syracuse, Duke and Louisville when those teams were hungry to win, and Notre Dame was the target. 
"They have a great combina­tion of outside and inside play,'' said Georgetown coach John Thompson of the Irish. "They are very, very good for such a young team. I saw a lot of good things from Notre Dame." 

Thompson never gets rest 
Hoya Head Coach's main goal now is to win NCAA's 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-­Georgetown coach John Thompson hopes there's no rest for the weary, at least not anytime soon. 
Thompson spent last spring and summer organizing and coaching the U.S. olympic bas­ketball team. Then, upon his return from Seoul, he barely had time to recover from jet lag before focusing his atten­tion toward guiding the Hoyas toward their 12th straight 20­win season. 

Thompson said he has been so busy he hasn't had time to think about being tired. For that matter, he has no desire to take a vacation anytime soon, because he's counting on clutching that familiar towel on the sideline until the conclusion of the NCAA tournament. 

It's been a whirlwind year for the veteran coach, what with the disappointing loss to the So­viet Union in the Olympics, his much-ballyhooed protest against Proposition 42, the Hoyas' rise to No. 2 in the na­tional rankings and now, a berth in the tournament's "sweet 16." Undaunted by the hectic pace, Thompson credits his altruistic players for hel­ping keep him fresh. 
"I'm tired in one sense, but I'm OK," he said. "It would have been more of a problem if this team had to deal with a lot of on and off-the-court prob­lems. But this has not been such a team." 
Indeed, this year's edition of the Hoyas have turned out to be an ideal blend of youth and experience. First-year players Alonzo Mourning, Dikembe Mutombo and John Turner have meshed with seniors Charles Smith, Jaren Jackson, and Bobby Winston to form a squad that is eager to learn, anxious to win and, most of all, willing to heed their coach's every whim. 

"These people have been sen­sible," Thompson said. "You get tired based upon your reac­tion to the team. If I was dealing with a bunch of pain in the necks, I'd have had prob­lems. 
"You get tired real quick when you have to worry about things other than basketball," Thompson added. "It's not just winning, either. I've had some teams that haven't won and still weren't a problem." 

Alumni-Senior CLUB Bartender Applications and Job Descriptions are now available at the Office of Student Activities, 3rd floor La Fortune. 
Deadline date CHANGE-it's now March 31 
Wednesday, March 22, 1989 



The Observer 1 Paul Compton 

LaPhonso Ellis (right) was a key factor in Notre Dame's 20-8 season in which the team advanced to the second round before being eliminated by No. 2 Georgetown. Ellis averaged 13.2 points and 
nine rebounds a game. 
..--......~~~ALUMNI =====t---. 
&!:CLUB 
The LAST Night before Easter Break! 
Wed: Cross the Border 
9:00-2:00 
Closed Thurs, Friday & Sat this week 
'89-'90 Bartender Applications now available 
-

Wednesday, March 22, 1989 
The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS . i: NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
2 p.m. NDW Tennis vs. Western Michigan-West Hills, RC, Kalamazoo 
7:30 p.m. Pax Christi Meeting, Center for Social Concerns Chapel. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
9:15-10:45 a.m. College of Arts and Letters Humanities Col­loquium "Was Jesus a Buddhist? Intertextuality, Buddhism and the 'sermon on the Mount," Zach Thundy, visiting En­glish. Rm. 131 Decio. 
12 p.m. Institute for International Peace Studies, "American Interest in the Gulf After the Iran-Iraq War," Patrick Gaf­fney, liPS fellow & assistant professor, Anthropology Dept. Rm. 105 Law School. 
12:30 p.m. ND Department of Economics Labor Workshop, Round 1, Frank Wil~inson, Cambridge University. 131 Decio. 
7:30 p.m. Gwendolyn Brooks, Pulitzer prize-winning poet, Poet Laureate of Illinois, reading from her poetry. O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
DINNER MENUS .,. 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Fried Bread Pizza Easter Banquet Roast Turkey Hawaiian Ham Slices Sauerbraten Beef Burgundy Veg Rice Casserole Shrimp Eggroll 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
ACROSS 1 Blow one's own horn 5 Rabbits' tails 10 Senora 14 The monk parrot 15 "... and nothing more-·": Dowson 16 Singer Clapton 11 Of the third syllable from the end 20 Flavorful bark 21 l.o.u.'s 22 Afrikaans 23 Kind of soup 24 Go to a meeting 27 Damaging remark 
31 Pertaining to bees 
32 Volga feeder 
33 Rita Hayworth's Khan 
34 Construction frowned on by some purists 
39 Cheer in Cordoba 40 Ump's kin 41 Distances of Ryun's races 42 Minuteman's foe 45 Compensates 47 Member of a fraternal order 48 Comic Jay 49 Red-headed screen star 52 Dixie decision: 1861 


26 Randy's skating partner 27 Emulate Tomba 28Kent's-Planet 29 Santa's little helpers 30 Pumpernickels 
31 Stringed instrument of yore 

32 Canceled 35 Baghdad is its capital 
The Far Side 
36 Seine 37 Duty on foreign 
goods 38 Aunt, in Avila 43 Cherry red 44 Character in 
"The Good Earth" 45 Make a new mold 46 Winter months in Madrid 48 Wanton looks 
49 Baltic Sea feeder 50 Sister of Zeus 51 In the distance 52 Portico for Plato 53 Symbol of smoothness 54 Sacred picture 55 Hodgepodge 56 Aerie or snuggery 58 Robert of "Quincy, M.E." 
Gary Larson 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
--~~-~wtl!E ~~;;.+:,:=-~
II ~':-+~~---..... 
B-=t::+.'-t:'±:-f"!"'P!""' 12 Necessity for a catcher .-.:~+=-1 13 Golf rarities "!""1-::=t:-:+=-i 18 -leather 
~~~j~~~ 19 Notion

..,!, 23 Marshall ­-=+~=+-±-+=+=-i 24 Granny Smith is 
f.:+~~ one 
illlllllilt::t::+=-i 25 Like many bathroom walls 
Berke Breathed 



Michael F. Muldoon

Buzz Mcflatop 
ok., ~VY5. -aN8tk.k~

7i!£ ALL£t{lf1i0Ai'> AR;;.. 
SIIYS lY'.V/6

RV~o!:EJJ 70 5t. 11/JoUr 
.S"$At-5. 

/J..OSf. ~ ~#(8t/,V~ \.. ~"'---­C()'../tJ/E.dlotJ5. 
"I never got his name ... but he sure cleaned up this town." 
Calvin and Hobbes 
OOt I'M IN t\ 81\D tiiOOD lbDA'(! E'Jt.R'iOt-IE 1-l~D BEITER SIEE.R CL£tt.R OF ME! 
\ 
~~~~ 
~~l 
57 What the is 
59 Historical periods 

60 Michelangelo's "Slave," e.g. 
61 Actress Nettleton 

62 Order for roast 
beef 63 Kilns 64 Turk's-head or 
sheepshank 
DOWN 
1 Lesage's Gil 

2 Author Jaffe 3 Part of B.F.A. 4 Departs 5 German-born 
actor Schnabel 6 Author of "The 
Rover" 1 Commonplace 8 Some mes­
sages: Abbr. 9 Defeat a bridge bid 
1oAbase 

11 Spirited horse 
I \.IAT£ £Y£RYBOPr1 A.'S FAR A.'S I'M CONCERt-lED, £vtR'iO~E ON 11\£ PLANET CA.N .l\lST DROP DO-D. 
P£0PLE ARE 'SC.IJ~. 
~~~ 
.~ 
Bill Watterson 




Observer Staff Report  He  had  previously  been  Brooks, 19,  is  a  native  of  
barred by the University from  Tulsa Oklahoma. He  was  the  
....  Tony Brooks, a player on the 1989 Championship team,  football National has left  all extracurricular activities, including spring football prac­tice, for an undisclosed reason.  second-leading ruusher on the Irish last season, running for 667 yards on 117 carries for a  
the  team  and  officially  Irish head football coach Lou  5.7 average.  He  also  caught  
~  withdrawn from Notre Dame.  Holtz suspended Brooks and teammate Ricky Watters from  seven passes for 121 yards and scored four touchdowns. He  
A sophomore tailback, Brooks' withdraw! comes in the  the USC game Nov. 26 for "repeated irresponsible tardi­ was second on the team in total offense with 66.7 yards per  
wake of a controversial sopho­ ness  for  team  meetings  and  game.  
The Observer I Trey Raymond Sophomore tailback Tony Brooks (40) has withdrawn from Notre Dame University.  more year. He was arrested Sunday, Feb. 26 and has since been charged with leaving the scene of an accident and driving with a suspended license after apparently admit­ting to being involved in a hit­and-run accident.  functions," according to a press release issued before the game, which the Irish won 27-10 over the Trojans. Holtz refused to comment on Brooks' situation, saying it is a university matter.  According to Jim Daves, As­sistant Sports Information Director, if Brooks wanted to return to Notre Dame, he could enroll in summer school and be eligible to play iootball in the fall.  

Sports 
Wednesday, March 22, 1989
page 16 

Seven seniors to return for Irish 
By BOB MITCHELL be a better team because of Sports Writer their presence on and off the field. 
On January 2, 1989 seven Heading the list of fifth year Notre Dame football players players is middle linebacker were under the impression that Ned Bolcar. In the past, Bolcar the Feista Bowl would be their lined up at the eagle linebacker last time they would don the position but this spring Bolcar Irish blue and gold uniforms. is slated to take over Wes Little did they know that Fac­Pritchett's "mike" position. ulty Board in Control of Ath­The 6-2 Philipsburg, N.J. native letics would play Santa Claus, played the "third" linebacker and grant them a fifth year of in Notre Dame's championship eligiblity because of various drive. The two-time Irish tri­reasons. captain was the fourth-leading 
"All seven men are great tackler on defense with 57 young people," said Head Co­tackles (30 unassisted), includ­ach Lou Holtz. "I can't say ing seven tackles each in four enough about them in the intan­games. gible areas of the game." "I'm about as old as they 
Holtz was hesitant to com­come," said Bolcar. "Speaking ment on the impact that the for myself, I really enjoyed last fifth year players would have year. I want to play the game on the playing field. "Well, for one more year, and help you really can't tell at this time Notre Dame win another na-~ what their contribution will be tiona! championship. It is quite on the football field. It would an honor to be named tri­be to early to make evaluations captain with Tony Rice and An­right now." thony Johnson, and I really ap­another year of eligibility for the fighting Irish. 
During the 1988 champion­preciate it." Bob Mitchell has story at left. ship quest, the Notre Dame On the defensive side, Bolcar football squad was led by ex­would be joined by strong ing senior George Streeter. At about," said Irish Defensive them on the 1989 schedule. Al­ample and word by two fifth safety D'Juan Francisco. The the cornerback position, Fran­Coordinator Barry Alvarez. though none of the five players year players--the colorful 5-11, 182-pound Francisco is cisco, during 105 minutes of "They are both established are presently scheduled to Frank Starns and the excitable amidst a transition from cor­play amassed 35 tackles, ten in players, and will get the job start, all will play an important Wes Pritchett. Although this nerback, where he started the Michigan game. done." roles in their respective posi­year's five year players may against Michigan and Stan­"Both players (Bolcar and On the offensive side, the tions. Offensive tackle Mike not have the same impact, ford, to the strong safety slot, Francisco) have started Irish will have the benefit of there is no doubt the Irish will formerly occupied by graduat-before, and know what it is all five fifth-year players to guide see SENIORS, page 13 
Brooks leaves Notre Dame 
Sophomore tailback's reasons listed as 'personal' 

Green uniforms pay off for ND basketball team 
After a Notre Dame basketball team clad in green jerseys won a first-round NCAA tournament game on St. Patrick's Day, Irish coach Digger Phelps recalled his contribution to a more famous incident involving green uniforms. 
According to Phelps, he was the one who helped convince then-Notre Dame football coach Dan Devine to dress his team in green jerseys for the game with Southern California in 1977. 
The Irish won that game 49-19 at Notre Dame Stadium and kept the green jerseys for the rest of that national championship season. 
In fact, Phelps had brought up the idea two years earlier when Devine replaced Ara Parseghian as the Notre Dame coach. 
"The third year, 1 said, 'Are you going to wear green or not?'," Phelps recalled asking Devine. 
Phelps, who spoke at that game's pep rally, also says he instructed Devine on how to get the maxi­mum effect out of the switch in uniforms. 
"You warm up in blues, then don't come back on the field until they (USC) go out," said Phelps. "Even if you have to take a penalty or whatever, don't go out until they go out." 
The basketball team's decision to switch uniforms was two months in the but and the team managers were the only people who knew about the green jerseys. Not even assistant coaches Matt Kilcullen, Fran McCaffery, Jeff Nix and Jim Dolan were in on the secret. 

Steve Megargee 
Irish Items 
Freshman guard Elmer Bennett may have been 
the least surprised person to see the new uniforms 
in the locker room. 
"Elmer said 'I called it,' " said Phelps. "He and 
Daimon (Sweet) were doing high-fives, and Daimon 
said that Elmer called it, that he knew we'd get 
green uniforms." 
"I wasn't shocked," said Bennett. "I didn't know 
it was going to happen, but I told (Sw€et) that we 
were going to have green uniforms. Coach had said 
in South Bend that he wasn't through with gim­
micks, and it's St. Patrick's Day." 
The basketball team has all its players back next season, but two Notre Dame athletes did end their collegiate careers last weekend. 
At the NCAA Wrestling Championships last weekend at Oklahoma City, Okla., in which the Irish placed 21st as a team, 134-pound Jerry Durso earned All-America honors with an eighth-place finish. Chris Geneser failed to place in the 167-pound divi­sion. 
Coming to Notre Dame as high school All­Americans, those two wrestlers were part of a recruiting class four years ago rated fourth in the country. That freshman class first brought national attention to Notre Dame wrestling. 
"They gave our program credibility," said Irish coach Fran McCann. "Being as good as they were, signing them kind of showed the general wrestling public that we were serious about the sport. They're our foundation." 
Pat Boyd, who placed fifth in the 142-pound divi­sion, will return next year to face a schedule that includes matches against six of the top 30 teams from last weekend's national championships, in­cluding a home date with third-ranked Oklahoma. Boyd, who arrived at Notre Dame the same year as Durso and Geneser, has received a year of hardship after being sidelined with a knee injury throughout his junior season. 




