VOL. XXIII NO. 21 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 



Student falls from Pangborn 4th story 
Is listed in serious condition 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Assistant News Editor 
A Notre Dame student fell out a fourth-floor restroom win­dow in Pangborn llall Friday night. 
Freshman Frederick Sharky was rushed to St. Joseph's Medical Center and a spokesperson for the hospital said Sunday that he was listed in serious condition and is in the intensive care unit. 
According to Rex Rakow, di­rector of Security, the incident occurred between 11:45 p.m. and midnight. The student fell from a window that was op1mnd 18 inches. he said. 
Hakow said the student fell out of the west or back side of Pangborn onto a loading dock. He said he was not sure what the circumstances of the fall were, "but it appears that the student was near vomiting." 
No blood alcohol test was taken, said Rakow. 
Sharky was placed in a neck brace and a back board and was taken to the hospital in an ambulance, said Rakow. 
The student is a resident of Stanford Hall. 
"He's coming along fine," said Brother Viator Grzeskowiak, rector of Stanford Hall. 
Pangborn's rector, Father Wilfred Borden, declined to comment. 
Three new computer systems bought,by ND 

By DAN DWYER 
News Staff 
Three new computPr systems were recently acquired by the University to support research as part of a four-year, multi­million dollar effort to upgrade and expand the computing fa­cilities on campus, according to Donald Spicer. assistant provost for university comput­ing. 
The systems, a CONVEX C220 and two smaller CONVEX Cl20s. give the University community processing capa­bilities that were previously available only off-campus, Spicer said: "Essentially, their primary capability is to support 
comp~.tationally-intensive 
tasks. 
The addition of the CONVEX systems has improved large­scale computing on the campus, said Spicer. The CONVEX sys-terns are computer networks, and users may log on through modems. 
"The CONVEX system is a class of computing power that did not exist on campus previ­ously. Off-campus ties will stay in place, but not everything will have to be done remotely. It's intended that these two (the off-campus and on-campus computing systems) will com­plement each other," he ex­plained. 
Users of the new system will include faculty, graduate stu­dents, and undergraduates af­filiated with research projects, said Spicer. "People who need this resource will be those in the fields of science, engineer­ing, business, and economics." 
In addition to the new sys­tems, a new computer store and repair shop have recently 
see COMPUTER/ page 6 


The Observer/Gerard Watson


Sporty and smitten 
Cheerleader Kristin Komyatte and former cheerleader Dan Sheehan became engaged during the Michigan State gamP Saturday. 
MONDAY I SEPTEMBER 25, 1989 
Hesburgh 
wins award 


for service 
Special to the Observer 
Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., president emeritus of the University of Notre Dame, will receive the George W. Romney Citizen Volunteer Award on September 28. 
The George W. Romney Award is given annually by the board of directors of VOLUNTEER, a Washington­based, not-for-profit organiza­tion dedicated to strengthening the nation's private s&ctor. The Romney Award, named for the former Michigan governor and 1968 presidential candidate, recognizes Father Hesburgh's 30-year public service career, which included voluntary ser­
' vice on ecclesiastical, govern­mental, and corporate boards. 
Previous recipients of the Romney Award have been Eunice and Sargent Shriver and Governor Romney himself. 

Jogger returns who asks to be punched 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Assistant News Editor 
A man in a navy running suit approached three differ­
ent  groups  of  females  
Sunday.  
According  to  Joseph  

Araman, captain of Security's afternoon shift, the first incident occurred at 
5:32 p.m. when two females were approached near Gate six in the JACC parking lot. 
Araman said the man asked the students what time it was and proceeded to tell them that he was jogging, had cramps and needed to be punched in the stomach. 
The women declined to help him and went to Cartier Field and told a representa­tive from non-varsity athlet­ics who called Security on a radio, said Araman. 
The second incident oc­curred at 7 p.m., when a fe­male student was jogging eastbound on Bulla Road near the O'Hara-Grace Townhouses. She said a man came jogging from behind her and asked her for the time. As before, the man told the student he was having trouble and needed help, said Araman. 
The student ran away and notified Security, he said. 
Araman said the third in­cident occurred at 7:26 p.m. on the sidewalk between Decio Faculty Hall and the Snite Museum of Art. The man approached two female students, asked for the time and to be punched in the stomach. 
The women fled and noti­fied Security, he said. "No one was touched," said Araman. 
The man is described as a male Caucasian, Italian-look­ing, with dark skin, bushy dark curly hair, brown eyes, five feet, nine inches tall, 160 pounds and probably be­tween 25-30 years old, Araman said. 
He said the man was wear­ing a navy blue, nylon jog­ging suit with a partially or fully zipped and hooded top. The top may have two white horizontal stripes. 
He was wearing a navy blue baseball hat with a red "P" stitched on it, said Araman. One woman said that he had a strong or prominent nose. 
The women also described him as having no facial hair (moustache or beard), no glasses and no heavy accent. 
"I suspect that this is the same person we've been deal­ing with all along," said Araman. "The patterns are the same, the conversation is 
see JOGGER I page 6 


Victims of Hugo try to get bare necessities 
Associated Press 

CHARLESTON, S.C. -Victims of Hurricane Hugo scrambled to meet life's basic needs Sunday, sweating out shortages of food, fresh water, cash and electricity. Lines for hot meals were blocks long and people waited up to four hours to buy gas and other supplies. 
"There's no bread, there's no meat," said Harold Washington, 21, at a super­market that had doughnuts and peanut butter but lacked sta­ples. "You can't survive like that. Things just aren't working fast enough." 
Washington, who lives with his mother and four siblings, said the family was burning candles at night and washing clothes by hand. They worried that the water they were using to brush their teeth was con­taminated. 
National Guardsmen with M­16 rifles patrolled the streets of the battered city of 65,000 peo­ple, guarding against looters and keeping order at locations where residents Jugged coolers and plastic jugs to get fresh water. 
An emergency law enacted Saturday night sought to keep profiteers from charging $1 0 for a bag of ice and $600 for a chain saw. Tempers flared at one location where people sought ice to keep their food fresh. 
"People were ... begging for ice," said Staff Sgt. Bill Petty of the South Carolina National Guard. "There were fistfights in the line. They were down-on­
see HUGO I page 6 

page 2 The Observer Monday, September 25, 1989 
WORLD BRIEFS 
"The Satanic Verses" will be released in paperback and is likely to go on sale this winter, London's Observer newspaper re­portt~d Sunday. More than 1 million hardback copies of Salman Hushdie's novel have been sold since it was published a year ago this week. It is in its ninth month on bestseller lists in Britain. 
Chinese exiles on Sunday chose a student protest leader and a former government official to lead an international movement to end Communist rule in China. On the final day of a three-day inaugural meeting of the Federation of Democracy in China, dele­gates elected former government adviser Yan Jiaqi as chairman and student protest leader Wu'er Kaixi as vice-chairman. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze 
waded into the Snake Hiver in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, fishing for cutthroat trout on Sunday, but he'll have to tell his Kremlin bud­dies about the one that got away. "I have no fishing license, and I caught nothing," Shevardnadze joked as he and Secretary of State James Baker ended their early morning fishing expedition. ''I'm no pro," he laughed. 
Salvage crews resumed efforts Sunday to remove the wreckage of a USAir jet from the East River in New York so fed­eral investigators can examine the parts to see if mechanical problems contributed to the crash. Queens District Attorney John 
J. Santucci's office has entered the investigation to be "on the lookout for violations of local laws," said Santucci spokesman Hichard Piperno. A grand jury may be asked to investigate possi­ble criminal wrongdoing related to last week's crash. 
Tens of thousands in Sioux City, Iowa turned out to honor flight and ground crews who brought in a disabled jumbo jet to the Sioux Gateway Airport and the emergency workers who helped rescue passengers. "This is unbelievable," said Capt. Al Haynes, pilot of United Flight 232. "It's like a continuation of ev­erything they did on July 19." 
The path of a collision that killed 20 students in Alton, Texas was retraced Sunday by a soft-drink delivery truck and a school bus carrying federal investigators. The National Transportation Safety Board said the tests helped determine the speed the bus was traveling Thursday on the two-lane road in southern Texas, 15 miles from the Mexico border. "We feel rea­sonably comfortable that the speed of the bus was somewhere in the range of, give or take, 30 miles per hour," said NTSB member Lee Dickinson. 
Swallowing cocaine to avoid detection has become an increasingly common practice, according to U.S. Customs agents in Miami. Plainclothes inspectors roving the huge customs area at Miami International Airport are capturing an average of a half­dozen of what they called "internals" every week, said senior cus­toms inspector George Dickinson. The swallowers are taken to a hospital prison ward to pass the sealed pellets of cocaine, with the help of laxatives. 
Utah's public school teachers have voted to hold a statewide walkout Monday to demonstrate to legislators that pleas for more education funds cannot be ignored. Legislators fu­eled the revolt last week by passing a tax cut instead of diverting money from a $94 million state surplus to education. 
WEATHER 
Sunny

I :p~ I


;Li:··-if 
~ 
Sunny this morning, partly sunny and warmer with highs in the middle to upper 60s in the
I 
afternoon. Variable clouds and cool tonight. Low in the middle to upper 40s. Partly sunny and cooler tomorrow, high in the middle 60s. 
ALMANAC 
On September 25: e In 1789: The first U.S. Congress, meeting in New York, adopted 12 amendments to the 
Constitution and sent them to the states for ratification. Ten of the amendments became the 
Bill of Rights. e In 1957: With 300 Army troops standing guard, nine black children who had been forced to withdraw from Cen­tral Iligh School in Little Hock, Ark., because of unruly crowds were escorted to their classes. e In 1978: 144 people were killed when a Pacific Southwest Airlines Boeing 727 and a Cessna private plane collided in the air over San Diego, Calif .. and crashed. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Clo•lng• for Frld•y., Sept. 22, 1989 
{t 
~~r~v~a~nes 
2681.61 
up 1.33 

S&P 500 {} 1.20 to 351.60 
Currency exchange Mark {Jr .21 to 51.21 $1DM Yen .0. .16 to 68.49 $1¥ Pound{} .90to157.10$1£ 
Precious Metals Gold {;> $.40 to $370.70 1oz. Silver{} 10.5¢ to $5.38 1oz. 
Source: Prudential Bache Secunt1es 
lntormat1on compiled from Observer w1res and Observer stall reports 


Panty raids: A tradition whose time has passed 
Before I came to Notre Dame I thought panty 
raids were a pastime out of the fifties and six­
ties when my parents were in school. But no, 
panty raids are alive and well at Saint Mary's 
College. 
The photo on the front page of Thursday's 
Observer says it all. The freshman is proudly 
displaying the prize he got at Saint Mary's from 
the women hanging out the windows. 
I know, I know, tradition, tradition; frankly 
this is one tradition whose time has come and 
gone. We're not in the sixties anymore and 
women should not participate in panty raids let 
alone host them. 
I asked a Saint Mary's student to explain to 
me how a certain night comes to be Panty Raid 
night. She said that as far as she knew 
(everyone seems a little cloudy on the issue) the 
raid is always on the Wednesday before the first 
home football game. 
My point is that NO freshmen don't just go running to Saint Mary's on a whim. Saint Mary's women could just stay inside and the whole thing would never happen. It's not like the raid is straight from "Revenge of the Nerds" when the men break into the dorm to the sur­prise of the residents. No, here we have willing participants who drop their drawers from their windows, rather than have their drawers opened. 
I realize that there must be some Saint Mary's students who do not approve of this annual event and it must be frustrating to be associ­ated with the rest of the crowd. 
I often hear women from both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame complaining about strained relations. Well, I just don't think the annual panty raid helps. Hosting a panty raid only fur­thers the "pre-wed" stereotype. The ceremony is overtly sexual with the freshmen literally leaving the Saint Mary's campus with the goodies. 
It's not that this panty raid in particular is so bad; believe it or not, I do have a sense of hu­mor. It's rather what this event symbolizes: it literally personifies the stereotypical sentiments that Notre Dame women wrongfully express towards the women at Saint Mary's. 
I asked a senior at Notre Dame if he went to the panty raid when he was a freshman. He said that the upperclassmen all told him to go, so he went. Well, many of the upperclass-women here are telling the fresh-women at Notre Dame that Saint Mary's girls are at school just to marry a Notre Dame man. 
I try to stop the spreading of this stereotype, but the panty raid doesn't help. Neither cloPs n front page photo of a freshman holding a pair of Saint Mary's student's underwear. 
In the April 20, 196 7 edition of The Observer 
OF INTEREST 
Paper Recycling. Papers will be picked up Monday, September 25 at 3:00 p.m. on thP ground floor of your dorm. 
An aluminum can drive sponsored by REM, along with Indiana Wildlife Rehabilitation Center, Foundation for Earth Understanding, and Michiana's Rock 'n Roll 95 WAOR, will be held on September 24, from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 
p.m. The weigh-in will be at the Storyland Zoo in South Bend's Rum Village Park. The person bringing in the most cans will win two front row tickets and meet REM at the JACC concert, September 29. 
The Overseas Development Network will be meeting tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the lounge at the Center for Social Concerns. There will be a speaker from El Salvador at the meet­ing and all who are interested are welcome. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University ol Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur· chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

'Hosting a panty 
raid only furthers the "pre-wed" stereotype." 
Kelley Tuthill Assistant News Editor 

the lead story is "Senate censures use of K-9 
police to stop panty-raids." The story states 
that the student senate made a collective 
complaint against the South Bend and St. 
Joseph County police about the K-9 dogs and 
tear gas bombs used against students in the 
panty raids. 
"The disturbance was 75 percent the fault of Saint Mary's," said then-Student Body President Jim Fish. "The girls hung out of windows half dressed screeching obscenities which were equal in force, if not worse than those shouted by the Notre Dame students." The story notes that J.D.'s were collected and turned over to the Dean of Students who could kick students off­campus as a punishment. 
A column on page two of the paper was writ­ten from the Saint Mary's student's point of view. "The girls were in a strange situation. On one hand we had hysterical house mothers and student government officials ordering us to lock windows, turn off lights, and stay away from the windows. On the other, some girls had been collecting underwear all year, expressly for the event. One girl, in hopes of 'creating some ac­tion' for herself, had purchased a pair of red lace panties, complete with her name and exten­sion number." 
"When one Zahm Hall freshman was asked why he wanted a bra, he replied, 'I love you and I want something to remember you by.' Another said that his dad had trophies so why shouldn't he.'' 
Well, if we're talking underwear collection as trophies then Saint Mary's students and Notre Dame females should remember one thing: we're all women. I don't think our underwear should be displayed as "trophies" in men's rooms or on the front page of The Observer. 
It does not take K-9 forces to stop the annual panty raid; it only take initiative from a few Saint Mary's women to simply close their win­dows and say "It's not going to happPn this year." 
Remember, you've come a long way baby, or have you? 
Spring Semester in Cuernavaca, 
Mexico with the Program in Global Community. An information meeting with Jay Caponigro ND '91, who participated in the program, will be at 
4:30 p.m., September 26, at the CenlPr for )ocial Concerns. 
Music Commission Meeting. All those interested in planning the Squeeze concert, the Nazz, and many other music related events should come to Room 220 Hayes-Healy at 6:00 
p.m. September 25. All current members of the Music Commission are required to attend. 
WVFI Issues '89 returns Monday at 7:00 
p.m. with an exclusive interview with Hobert McFarlane, former National Security Advisor to Ronald Reagan. 
Design Editor .................... Karen Newlove Design Assistant. Wendy Cunningham Typesetter .............................. Amalia Meier .......................................................... Dan Towers Assistant News Editor...... Tim O'Keefe News Copy Editor....... Sandra Weigand Sports Copy Editor ............. Greg GuHey Vlewpolnl Editor ................... Dave Bruner Velwpolnt Copy Ed!lor......... Kim Skiles VIewpoint Layout... ...... Melissa Gorham Accent Editor .................. Robyn Simmons Accent Copy Editor ...... Shanda Wilson Photographer ................... Gerard Watson Business Editor ...................... Liz Panzica Business Copy Editor Sandra Weigand Business Layout_ Maureen Gallagher Ad Designers .................. Shannon Roach .................................. Kerry Clair,Maria Blohm ........................Ryan Roberts.Jeanne Naylor 

...-----~----~---~ ----~~----------~------­
Alum: Gov't more aware of family 
By CHRISTINE GILL Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's fres voted in a run-off election on Friday to choose their class president and vice-president. 
The ticket of Colleen Rhattigan and Carol Egan won the run-off with 62 · · cent of the vote, Katie Damm and Linda fer for the offices of dent and vice 
r~~~-----~-~----------,
AN EVENING OF SCOTTISH MUSIC 
PRESENTED BY THE MICHIANA SCOTTISH SOCIETY 
The Fort Wayne Scottish Pipes and Drums 
Nancy Eversole, The Kentucky Woman 
Richard Mao, The Peking Piper 
John Watson, Scottish Fiddler and Harper 
Saturday, Oct. 14, 1989 BENDIX THEATER 7 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. e.s.t. Century Center I 
Tickets: $8.00 S J h t
120 S 
( $1 discount for · t. osep 1 College Students, South. Bend, IN I 
.L·-·-·~~~..f~~~L--~~~~~~!:~~1 
You've thought about it. 

You've bied to imagine what it would be like. 
You know it would be 
exciting. And a 

challenge. And quite 
possibly the most 


rewarding experience of 
your life ... 

Three Americans overseas in Asia, Africa and South America speak frankly on what Peace Corps life is like for them. 
It isn't easy and it isn't for everyone-they'll tell you that up front. 
But if you've ever considered going overseas in the Peace Corps, then now is your chance to see and hear for yourself what could be "the toughest job you'll ever love." 
Note: Former Peace Corps volunteers will be on hand to answer questions following the 25 minute film. And it's free! 
See our free film Thursday, September 28th, 7 p_m., Center for Social Concern. Interviews Wednesday & Thursday, October 4th & 5th, Career & Placement Services 
U.S.Peace Corps 

The Movie 

"The Toughest Job You'll t:ver Love" 

By JOHN CREEL 
News Staff 
The federal government is starting to become more aware of the needs of the American family in its policies after a long period of neglect, said Thomas Long, a 1973 graduate of Notre Dame. 
It was not until recently that the government took the family into consideration when creat­ing federal policy, said Long. The family suffered a decline during "The Great Society" as a result of a high divorce rate and increased teen pregnancy. This decline was not caused by the Federal Government, but it did not provide adequate assis­tance to its people when they were in need, said Long. 
Long stressed that several excellent programs were devel­oped during the sixties and sev­enties, but "The war on poverty was hardly a renaissance, it was more of a disast~>r." 
Two aspects of the Federal policy that greatly affect the condition of the American fam­ily are the tax code and educa­tion. Mr. Long remarked, "The present tax code is compromis­ing the economic life of the family." 
In order for the tax code to be better suited to the family three adjustments should be made, said Long. Taxes should be based on people's ability to pay, dependents should lessen a family's tax requirement, and the poor should not be taxed. The personal tax adjustment for families with children has also fallen behind the times be­cause the government has failed to adjust it to keep up with rising inflation, said Long. 
Education is also vital to the survival of the family, he said. Poor conditions and low test scores in some inner city schools have led an increasing number of school-aged youths to flee to the streets and drugs 
and to leave their families. A 
system of open enrollment in 
which students would choose 
the school they would attend 
has proved effective in areas 
such as Harlem. Legislation to 
improve the tax code and the 
education system are necessary 
and are receiving greater con­
sideration in Washington, said 
Long. 

There has never been a fed-
Belly Dance Surprise Service 
-presents­
Personalities Plus* a balloon -telegram delivery service 
255-3355 

!Student Special! with this coupon $15 (a $10 savings) Good thru 1989-90 school year 
eral policy regarding the family, he said. He added that the best available option is the use of local governments to organize improvements because the Federal Government does not have the discretionary funds to finance these programs. The poor have become largely de­pendent on the Federal Government for survival. 
Long said, "It is necessary to recognize the dignity of the family. People must participate in programs and help them­selves." 
If people become involved in their communities they will have a sense of pride and the family will be strengthened, he said. 
Thanks to the initiative of communities who have begun programs such as open enroll­ment the government has be­come aware of the needs of the family, said Long: "The lan­guage of the family has become part of Washington's vocabu­lary." 
Long graduated frqm the program of liberal studies at Notre Dame and went on to re­ceive his Juris Doctoris from Boston College. After comple­
tion of his studies and a tour of duty in Vietnam as a gunnery officer, he began his career in politics. He is presently the counsel and health policy advi­sor for Senator Dan Coats of Indiana, a position he has held since 1982. 
The lecture, titled "The American Family and Federal Policy: Recipe for Disaster or Opportunity for Renaissance?" was held Friday afternoon in Hayes-Healy auditorium. 
1~.1]-1'4..1 llt~h k>•cl\tcnTtln lnlcllo-•·no.•·IIJT,u.•r 1'<72 1~112 'nre•n•-t.~ncn.l 
·~Ill<: I nucd ""'""'' 
Pn:«Kk-ni••\\Nrw 
Ifthe press didn't tell us,who would? 
Tu~~~ pnmed rnh•rmalltm ''"!he nrlc ''' .1 tree pre~-. and httll rt l'lrlllcrt~ 1uur rr~th''·''r ''' dr-.cu'' an• free Prt''' '"ue.callthe Fri"l -\mcndmcm l"l"nler ar 1-KIIIl-5~~-lhOO 
~ . 


0 ~\~ 
SEE DICK DLfl[) 

Don't drink and drive 
~--~----r-----.---~--------------------~----------------------------------~.-~.--------------------------~-----­
page 4 The Observer Monday, September 25, 1989 
Colombia's judges may strike because of death threats 
Associated Press Hesidents of this capital city president of the Association of views la~t month many said been wanted on drug traffick­of 6 million endured another Judicial Employees, has said at they were forend to take buses ing charges in Florida since 
BOGOTA, Colombia night of bombings Saturday as least 1,600 of Colombia's 5,000 to work because they couldn't Colombia's 4.600 judges, facing bombs exploded in a theater, a judges have been threatened afford cars. A compact car 1985. persistent death threats from city bus company's garage and with death in the last 12 here costs ~~0.000. Last month, Colombian gov­drug traffickers, threatened at a neighborhood headquar­months. Monica dP Gn,il'l', who re­ernment security forces daimed Sunday to strike if the govern­ters of the ruling Liberal party. Union officials are to meet signed as justice minister last to have arrested two rmmt doesn't give them better The three bombs injured two Monday with acting Justice week after bPing thrPatened by Colombians wanted by the protection. people, national police said. Minister Carlos Simmonds. drug traffkknrs. said she was United States for extradition. 
Also Sunday, the army said it In the last month, 103 bombs "We don't see any will on the promised $19 million in U.S. The two were released aftnr the had captured a suspp,cted drug have killed six people and part of the government to in­aid earlier this month for the U.S. Justice Department said it traflkker wanted by the United wounded 130. crease security for our lives," purpose of protecting judges. had no charges p1mding against States for extradition. Carlos Colombia's judges, fearing the president of the judges' But the union said it has heard them. Zapata is not on the U.S. for their lives, said in a state­union, Antonio Nino, said in the nothing since about the aid. U.S. Ambassador Thomas Justice Department's list of 12 ment issued through their labor communique. Colombia's army said Sunday McNamara and other mnbassy wanted drug traffickers. union, the National Association it had captured a suspected employees have refused to 
The son of a crusading news­of Judicial Workers, that they The judges repeated previous drug trafficker wanted by the comment on extraditions. paper editor who was killed by will go on strike if immediate demands for bulletproof cars United States for extradition. The anti-drug crusading drug traffickers said Sunday action is not taken to address and vests, guards with metal newspaper El Espectador. in a that Colombia's congress is the dangers they face. detectors at their offices and The army's 2nd Brigade, in column by its editor, Juan cowardly and corrupt in the Since 1981, about 50 judges other security measures. the Caribbean coast town of Cano, accused Colombia's government's fight against and 170 judicial employees have Judges in Colombia earn Barranquilla, said it had cap­congress Sunday of being cow­drug traffickers. been killed. Antonio Morales. about $400 a month. In inter-tured Gomez. It said Gomez has ard! and corru t. 
WheEach year we hire a small team of college graduates to partici­pate in a unique management training program. Our pro­gram, Audit-Plus, offers a career path in either financial or general management at J.P. Morgan. J.P. Morgan develops and executes complex financial transactions for the world's CIJ989JP. MIHJllll A("...,, lnrmpo'*"'. J.P MotJan ldtontir-thr III'Oridwtdr buN.-and ~rrvino. or J.P Mory:an ACo., lnrorponllrd, Mni'Jan Guu.nty TNM (.:Ompury, J. P ~an Src-uritW. Inc·., and utlwr J.P. Mo~ .w...diarir-1.  re can Morgan's Audit-Plus ll-aining Program lead you? leading corporations and finance, economics, or other governments. Our business business subjects should have requires specialized support at least two courses in account­in areas such as risk analysis, ing for the general manage­controlevaluation,accounting ment path and four courses for policies, and taxation. As an the financial management path. Audit-Plus trainee, your role Please plan to attend our will be vital in providing this upcoming information session. essential management support. Watch for the time and location To qualify, graduates with on campus. Or contact Judith concentrations in accounting, Lannin, Financial Recruiting, JPMorgan  J.P Morgan & Co. Incorpo­rated, 23 Wall Street, New York, NY 10015. Career Opportunities at Morgan  


AP Photo

Metal looting 
Workers sort out junk at a West Beirut junkyard. The scrap metal merchants are out in the rubble every day as there's a lull in the shelling, collecting wrecked cars and pieces of shrapnel and scavenging through wrecked apartments for battered metal houselhold items. 
A PURDUE CoNvocATIONS PRESENTATION 
Before the Notre Dame v. Purdue game, make plans for ~ 
250TH ANNIVERSARY TouR 
THE BLACK WATCH 
PIPES, DRUMS & DANCERS WITH THE MASSED BANDS OF THE BLACK WATCH AND THE 
ARGYLL 
& 
SUTHERLAND HIGHLANDERS 
CoMPANY OF 90 
FRIDAY 

,:....~.-.. SEPTEMBER 29 8 P.M. HALL OF Music PURDUE UNIVERSITY, WEST L 
.....-p_,PI~~~~~~=~ on sale NOW at Elliott Hall of and Loeb 
/' box offices, and at all Tlcketmaster locations. Use MasterCard or VISA by calling (317) 494-3933. For group discount Information, call (317) 494-971 access/equal opportun~y 

WE DO BUSINESS IN ONLY ONE PLACE. 




Baker proclaims talks with Soviet foreign minister highly successful 
Associated Press 
JACKSON HOLE, Wyo. ­Secretary of State James Baker said Sunday that the success of his meeting with the Soviet foreign minister should silence congressional critics and dampen their appetite for unilateral arms cuts. 
Despite progress on talks to cut strategic, conventional and chemical weapons, Baker said the Soviet Union was still "a military threat." 
"I think it would quite naive for the United States to talk about unilateral reductions of its strategic arsenal," Baker said on the CBS-TV program "Face the Nation." 
The Bush administration, he said, remains committed to the Strategic Defense Initiative and deploying new classes of long-range bombers and mobile mis­siles. 
Baker's four-day session with Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze yielded an agreement to hold a summit in the United States next spring or summer. 
It will be the first meeting interview program, but did not between President Bush and recant. Soviet leader Mikhail "The events of the last 24 Gorbachev since Bush took of-hours are certainly positive ... flee, although the two met in but I still think there are a New York between Bush's elec-number of steps that should be tion and his inauguration. taken, should have been taken 
In the course of the Baker-previously," the Maine Shevardnadze talks, the Soviets Democrat said on ABC's "This also said they would withdraw Week With David Brinkley." a demand that the United He specifically mentioned the States agree to curb work on Democratic call for more fi­"Star Wars" before conclusion nancial aid to Poland and ex-of a Strategic Arms Reduction panded trade with the Soviet Treaty (START). Union as areas needing more 
Baker told a news conference attention. Saturday the Soviet decision Baker and Shevardnadze could speed conclusion of went fishing Sunday morning in START, which would cut long-the Snake River in the Rocky range strategic arms by 30-to-Mountains before flying sepa­50 percent. rately to New York for a United 
Taking on domestic critics Nations meeting. Baker caught Sunday, Baker said, "There three trout, but Shevardnadze was a lot of criticisms in ad-caught nothing. vance of this ministerial Their mood appeared warm (meeting) that I hope is abso-and friendly, as it has been lutely gone now because we since they arrived in this have made some really funda-beautiful mountain resort mental progress." Thursday night. 
The most influential critic, Despite progress in talks Senator Majority Leader across a broad range of issues, George Mitchell, tempered his and the signing of six accords remarks somewhat on another on Saturday, Baker said the 
..---...~~-!~!!!!~---~----------.Soviet Union remained a threat.
"The military threat is not diminished if you look at (it) just in terms of military to mili­tary," Baker said. 
He complained that while the Soviet Union has two classes of mobile missiles, the SS-24 and the SS-25, the United States has yet to deploy two it has un­der development, the rail-mo­bile MX and the Midgetman. 


Morris Inn Alumni Room 


Salomon Brothers 
Monday, September 25, 1989

page 6 The Observer 
Computer 
continued from page 1 
been opened on the first floor of the Comp/Math building. A brand new information re­source center . functioning on a limited capability, is also lo­cated on the first floor of the building. 
University President Father Edward Malloy last fall an­nounced the computer expan­sion plan. Early steps in that plan have been the initiation of a faculty workstation program and the completion of three new student computing clusters -in the LaFortune Student Center, the Architecture build­ing and the new center in the llesburgh Library. 
"The message (of the four­year program) is that this is a very dynamic area of campus life," said Spicer. "The com­munity is going to see a sub­stantial improvement on a reg­ular basis over the next three to four years. The program provides for either more facili­ties or better usage of existing facilities in each area." 

Jogger 
continued from page 1 
the same." He added that so far no one has been hurt or molested by the man. 
On September 6, The Observer reported that a man bearing the same description and acting in a similar manner approached three different groups of females on campus. 
"I would like to emphasize that people should call right away if they see this man and to try to see where he is going," said Araman. When students wait 10 or 15 minutes, the man can jog away, he said. 
"We would like to apprehend him," Araman said. He said Security is concerned about the situation and would like to take care of it. 

Hugo 
continued from page 1 
the ground fights -men and 
women." 
Without electricity for a third 
day, residents were unable to 
cook, boil water for drinking or 
get cash from bank machines. 
At stores that managed to re­
open Saturday, people waited in 
lines for up to four hours. 
The Red Cross dished out hot 
meals from lunch wagons. At 
the Citadel Square Baptist 
Church, the line stretched for three blocks, spokesman Brian Ruberry said. 
Wilma McDonald patched holes in her roof damaged by by fallen pine trees, although water continued to drip. She was buoyed when Allstate in­surance adjuster Kent Robinson gave her a $500 check to get the trees removed. 
"You don't know how glad I am to see somebody," McDonald said. "I was at my wit's end." 
People rummaged through the chaos wrought by Hugo to find what they had lost and what they could still salvage. Mostly, neighbors did what they could to get by. 

Kenneth Watson, 34, of North Charleston, filled a bath­tub with water before Hugo hit, but he and 11 relatives have no power. On Sunday, he bought groceries at a Piggly Wiggly supermarket even though money is short. 
"You can't get your checks and no banks are open. I just hope something comes by," Watson said. 
If no relief comes, Watson said, 'Til do it the old-time way and go down to the river and fish and crab." 
As a cold rain fell Sunday morning, church bells pealed above the hum of generators and the buzz of chain saws. 
"We have no roof and we've got three feet of water in the living room," said Jimmy Bailey, a state lawmaker who attended services. "But we all have what we were born with and that's good health. 
CAPT. HORN 219-2D-M34 
~s-;,.
AIRJ 

...n ,_.._.,
~===--:;~~:::--...=,. >.....-... _,.. 
~-----~
="'=-""="" = ~ -­
leadership Elil:ellence Starts Here 
Anything else is just gravy." 
Hugo clobbered Charleston for si~ hours late Thursday and early Friday with 135 mph winds and a storm surge of 17 feet of water. It was among the 12 fiercest hurricanes to strike the United States in this cen­tury, based on internal pres-
Ray Hurt, you're now a man! 

Happy .21st from the "7" and your beloved pho family. Now let's go on a RUN. 
Neighbohood Study Help Program 
still needs volunteers to tutor children and adolescents at the schools and neighborhood centers in the South Bend area. Transportation is provided. 
Tutors especially needed for: Monday &Wednesday 3-4 or 4-5 Tuesday &Thursday 3-4 or 4-5 Call Jennifer at x3725 or Patty at x4231 if you can tutor at one of these times or to find out about the ten other times we tutor. 
sure, which gives winds their strength, according to the National Hurricane Center in Coral Gables, Fla. 
Hugo was the worst storm to hit the U.S. mainland since Hurricane Camille killed 256 people 20 years ago. 

#1 tiJTRE DAME "FIGHTlNG IRISH" vs. #2 MIAMI "IRJRRICANES" 



Career Opportunities at Morgan 
for Notrr• !Jamf' stwlf'nts ,-ntrn·stl'd ,-IZ 

THANKSGMNG FOOTBAU WEEKEND  
NOVEMBER 22·26, 1989  Auditm~  
Financial \ lana~t ·nwnt  
COMPLETE PACKAGE INCLUDES  Bank Accounting  
• ROUNDTRIP TRANSPORTATION TO AIRPORT • ROUNDTRIP JET FliGHT TO MIAMI  Tax St ratl·giPs  
• 4 NIGHTS AT THE LUXURIOUS SHAWNEE RESORT  
DIRECTLY ON BEAUTIFUL MIAMI BEACH  Ph•wu• plan to ullend our  
• TRANSFERS TO THE "ORANGE BOWL" • NOTRE DAME VS. MIAMI GAME TICKET  ,-,~(ornwtionprcsf'TifrLlion on  
• GREAT AMERICAN'S TOUR STAFF ON-LOCATION  Monda.v. SeplPmhf'r 25  
• ALL TAXES AND GRATUITIES INCLUDED  6:00-\:00 pm  
TRIP PRICE: $435.00, quad occupancy.  Morn·s Inn  
$150.00 Deposit to reserve your spot  Noln• /Jamf' Hoom  
Visa and Mastercard accepted  (:uufir1111h'· 1i1111' urullunation ..,.irh ~our plaf"PfO('III uffTn·  
Contact the Student Activities Office:  
Notre Dame 239-7308 315 LaFortune Center  JPMorgan  
Saint Mary's  284-4561  
103 Haggar Center  





Business 
Monday, Se~ember25, 1989 page 7 
ND students receive $34 million in financial aid for year 
By JEFF SWANSON the loan and interest to partici­This need-based program lends Business Writer pating lenders. Students do not money allocated to the univer­
Total Aid for ND
have to begin repaying the loan sity from the federal govern­Approximately two-thirds of until six months afer the stu­ment and repayments to the 
A breakdown of Financial Aid for Notre Dame* 
all Notre Dame undergraduates dent is no longer enrolled. The fund from previous Notre receive financial aid, according Stafford Student Loan granted Dame borrowers, Russo said. to Joseph Husso. director of fi­$7.3 million to Notre Dame In terms of repayment, Notre nancial aid. The aid that stu­students last year. Dame students have a history dents n~ceive comes in the form The University recommends of doing very well, Husso said. of scholarships. athletic lenders who have done an Approximately 96% of all grants-in-aid, loans. campus excellent job in servicing loans money loaned to Notre Dame work. and non: awards total­in the past for Notre Dame students is paid back. "As a re­ing almost $34 million in the students. "There are about six sult, banks are knocking on our aeadnmie year 1988-89. or seven nationwide banks door." 
"An Psscntial part ol' our pol­whieh we can be sure that the Some students borrow from iry is that a student demon­servicing on loans will be commercial lenders . Student strati' !'inanrial need," said excnllcnt," said Russo. parents often increase their Husso. "WP don't of'f'pr strictly According to Husso. the home mortgages because inter­nwrit-bas!'d aid. Our policies fastcst growing program is the est on the payments of primary an• dictatnd by our resouces. " parental loan program. Called residences are tax-deductible. lw said. the Parental Loan for Loans made directly through 
Tlw singln largest source of Undergraduate Students commercial lenders to Notre l'unds l'or studnnts who mcieve (PLUS). it is one of the few Dame students totaled about financial aid at Notn~ Dame is programs that is not need­one-half million dollars last the Stafford StudPnt Loan. It is based. PLUS loans, available to year. a rwed based loan which is parents of dependent students, available to students who have totaled approximately $1.3 Russo said there is a visible l'iled tlw FAF and have been million last year at Notre need for more scholarships at awardNI eligibility by the Office Dame. Notre Dame. "We're not cur­of Financial Aid. While the The Perkins Student Loan rently in a position to meet all student is 1mrollcd, the federal program allowed students to the financial needs of students," govnrnmcnt pays the costs of borrow $2.3 million last year. Russo said. 
Economic powers pledge to decrease value of the dollar 
Associated Press the tone of the statement re­for reporters but he refused to "The whole meeting of the G-concern that this could signal leased Saturday was consider­say what specific actions the 7 became electric when we unwillingness to make enough 
WASIIINGTON -Finance of­ably stronger, holding out the countries would be willing to started talking about the events new money available to sustain ficials of the world's seven threat that if the dollar rises take if the dollar goes higher. going on in the Soviet Union growth in the developing na­largest economic powers Sat­any further the economic pow­In April, the officials used and Poland," Brady said, tions, most of them in Latin urday exprnssed dismay at the ers would intervene together in milder language and simply adding that the finance minis­America. persistent increase in thn value world currency markets. said they agreed that "a rise of ters hoped the 152-nation In­The communique noted the of tlw dollar this year and "The ministers and governors the dollar which undermined ternational Monetary Fund development, saying piPdgPd to take coordinated ac­considered the rise in recent adjustment efforts ... wo.uld be would be able to reach quick "diversified financial support tion if necessary to drive the months of the dollar inconsis­counterproductive," not any agreement on a loan package from the banks is needed to 
U.S. eurrPney lower. tent with longer run economic rise. for Poland. support sound economic reform 
In tlwir first meeting since fundamentals," the group said The group, meeting two On Third World debt, the programs through a broad April. tlw finance ministers and in a two-page communique re­hours longer than expected at communique praised Brady's array of new lending and debt rPntral bank govPrnors of the leased after the eight-hour Blair House, across the street latest initiative for achieving service reduction mechanisms." so-raiiPd Group of Seven -the meeting. from the White House, also ad­"substantial progress." But, it was the group's re­United States. Japan. West "They agreed that a rise of dressed topics ranging from Since the Brady plan was an­marks on the dollar that were GPrmany, Great Britain, the dollar above current levels the Third World's crushing nounced in March, commercial most eagerly awaited by finan­Frane!', Canada and Italy -could adversely affect $1.3 trillion debt to Western ef­banks have struck tentative cial markets. steppnd up tlwir rhetoric aimed prospects for the world econ­forts to aid economic reforms agreements granting relief to at rurbing the buoyant dollar, a omy ... (and) agreed to cooper­in Eastern Europe. Mexico and the Philippines. "That's a much stronger developmnn't threatening to ate closely in exchange mar­Officials told reporters the Last week, however, three statement against any rise in derail improvement in the U.S. kets," the statement said. extra time was devoted to dis­major U.S. banks added more the dollar," said economist tradP deficit. Treasury Secretary Nicholas cussing events in Poland and than $4 billion to their loss re­David Jones of Aubrey G. 
ThP group had expressed a F. Brady emphasized this part Hungary, which the commu­serves for developing country Lanston & Co., a government similar ronePrn last but of the comm in a termed "historic." loans. Analysts are expressing securities dealer. 
Michelin gets Uniroyal 
Associated Press over their official cap. 
in $1.5 billion deal
Prices have been GENEVA OPEC recent m · but Associated Press and distribute Uniroyal, BF­
ministers debating whether 
StiU about Goodrich and other brands of they can pump morn oil cartel's target of AKRON, Ohio -The Michelin tires while retaining its corpo­without dragging down barrel. Group announced Friday it will rate identity, said Michelin prices failed to agree Sunday Iraqi Oil Minister lssam al> acquire Uniroyal Goodrich Tire spokesman Jim Morton. 
on how to reach thnir goals, 
Chalabi said there were t Co. in a deal valued at $1.5 bil­Michelin, based in Clermon­
a top of1icial said. 
or three proposals on t lion, forming the largest tire Terrand, France, was locked in 
Subroto, secretary general ministers' })argaining ta maker in the world. 
a three-way contest with

of the 13 -nation He declined to elaborate. Michelin will pay $690 million Akron-based Goodyear Tire & Organization of Petroleum "It seems that the ceHingl$ for· Uniroyal and will assume Rubber Co. and Bridgestone of Exporting Countries. said the imminent problem," he $810 million in debt, company Japan to be the world's largestthe officials would meet told :-eporters after the Some worry that officials said. tire company. privately before resuming a meeting. their production . "We believe this is a fine op­But with the acquisition,third round of formal talks He said he favored an in~,, a little could cause portunity for the Uniroyal Michelin would become the Monday evening. crease in the ¢eiling, with t ''' fall. Goodrich Tire Company," said largest if regulators in the 
"Wo are still deliberating extra amotint ·· sha B. Charles Ames, chairman of United States and Canada ap­about the best way to proportionately among an Others ·are Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Co. and prove the deal, said Saul Lud­achieve (our) goal," he said 13 members. Each would get demand is strong an.roncth also a principal in Clayton & wig, a tire analyst with the at a press conference at the a certain amount added to absorb a substantial Dubilier, a private New York Cleveland-based Raulston & Co. Geneva hotel where meetings its individual supply quota. ... in output. investment firm that helped The Michelin Group reported were held Sunday. Ho wever, Ch a Ia hi structure the deal. 1988 sales of $8.7 billion. 
The ministers are suggest:d Jhe minis:· "We are confident that Uniroyal Goodrich had sales of thrashing out whether they would defer until Nove Michelin's additional financial $2.2 billion in 1988. can raise their current any resolution of the .. and technological resources Goodyear has sales of $10.8 production ceiling of 19.5 issue of fairly distributing will make an important contri­billion in 1988. million barrels a day in the production shares. bution to the Uniroyal Goodrich "We expect to see positive re­
final quarter of the year Kuwait the Company's future," he
and Tire sults both short-term and long­
without weakening crude Arab Emirates said. 
term, when Michelin's technol­prices. 

.slices of Uniroyal Goodrich will oper­ogy and research are added to 
Led by Kuwait and the ate as a subsidiary of the our own capabilities," said Unitod Arab Emirates, they Michelin Group and will keep its Sheldon Salzman, president and have been pumping about 22 headquarters in Akron. The chief operating officer ofmillion barrels a day -well company will continue to make Uniroyal Goodrich. 


Viewpoint
page 8 
Monday, September 25. 1989 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Edltor ....... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............. Molly Killen VIewpoint Edltor .................... Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ........ Shannon Roach Sports Editor...................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ............ Aiison Cocks Accent Editor ........................... John Blasi Systems Manager .............. Mark Derwent Photo Editor. ................ Eric Bailey OTS Director ................... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor............... Christine Gill Controller ............................. Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of th~ Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob­jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
"W~Ll. I'M lliCAliG~T UP.... l'V!;: WORRIW~ {;VffiY\1\\NG INTI-I~WIUE~ND~Y PWm." 
Christianity clearly labels homosexuality a sin 
By Rick Acker 
Are anti-homosexuality laws fair? Is homosexuality a legiti­mate "alternative lifestyle?" As the controversy surrounding homosexuality has grown, the willingness to give straight an­swers to questions like these has dwindled. In this essay I will attempt to openly address the issue of homosexuality from the standard of a believer in democracy and Christianity. 
As a believer in democracy, the issue of homosexuality is political: Do homosexuals have rights to sexual freedom in the same way that religious minori­ties have rights to religious freedom? The Supreme Court answered this question in its 1986 decision in Bowers vs. Hardwick. In this case, the Court allowed a Texas anti­sodomy law to stand, and effec­tively denied a Constitutional basis for gay rights. 
Hegardless of the technical merits of Bowers vs. Hardwick (It is an impressive example of legal reasoning), I believe that it is in conflict with a central principle of American democ­racy. The Declaration of Inde­pendence, for instance, states that we all have the right to freely engage in "the Pursuit of Happiness." It is difficult to think of anything more aptly described as "the Pursuit of Happiness" than the private ex­ercise of one's sexual prefer­ences. Indeed, one of the fun­damental teachings of democ­racy is that individuals should have as much freedom as pos­sible, so long as they don't in­trude on the freedoms of others. Since homosexuals clearly do not infringe on any­body's rights by privately en­gaging in homosexual acts with 
DOONESBURY 
consenting adults, those of us 
who believe in democracy 
should press for legislation 
barring discrimination against 
homosexuals. 
As a believer in Christianity, 
however, the issue of homosex­
uality is ethical: Is homosexual­
ity morally acceptable? In light 
of explicit biblical teachings on 
this subject, Christians have no 
choice but to condemn homo­
sexual behavior as sin. 
Leviticus 20:13, for instance, says, "If there is a man who lies with a male as those who lie with a woman, both of them have committed a detestable act; they shall surely be put to death. Their bloodguiltiness is upon them." Likewise, St. Paul describes homosexuality as "degrading," "indecent," and "unnatural" in Homans 1:26­
27. While few today would ad­vocate the death penalty for homosexuals, Christians cannot deny the clear message of both the Old and New Testaments on the immorality of homosexual­ity. 
Some Christians have at­tempted to evade the strict bib­lical condemnation of homo­sexuality by arguing that the laws against it are mere anachronisms. They think that these rules may have had some function at the time of Moses, but are irrelevant today. They reach this conclusions more by analogy than logic. They point to outdated laws like the one in Leviticus 19:27 which requires men not to cut their beards or sideburns, or I Timothy 2:9 which prohibits women from wearing jewelery or braiding their hair. When pressed, how­ever, they can find no legitimate distinction between the rules they want to throw out and the ones they want to keep (banning child molestation, murder, etc.). Many people ad­
vocate "listening to your heart"  were prostitutes. The context is  "all have sinned and fall short  
and "social morality" to make  now gone, and so is the rule.  of the glory of God." We're all  
these decisions. Not surpris­ What does the Context Test  in the same boat, heterosexuals  
ingly these guides have an  say about the anti-homosexual­ and homosexuals alike. Homo­ 
amazing tendency to tell us  ity laws? In contrast to the  sexuality is a sin and must be  
precisely what we want to hear.  jewelry and hair cutting laws  recognized as such, but it is not  
There is, however, a simple  mentioned above, there were no  the only sin and homosexuals  
and useful test used bv most  social or pragmatic reasons for  are not the only sinners.  
respectable Christian scholars  banning homosexuality. Indeed  
to determine which biblical  the social contexts for which  In short, those of us who be­ 
laws should still be applied and  they were written (Babylon and  lieve in democracy must respect  
which are just historical cu­ Imperial Rome) were more or  the fundamental right of homo­ 
riosities. This test is appropri­ less free from venereal disease  sexuals to exercise their sexual  
ately called the Context Test.  and prejedices against homo­ preference as long as they don't  
What is says is that any law is  sexuality. Given this historical  infringe on the right of others.  
relevant only so long as the  background, it is obvious that  Those of us who also believe in  
context it was written for still  the ban on homosexuality  Christianity, however, must  
exists. The law against cutting  passes the Context Test with  also recognize homosexuality  
beards. and sideburns, for in­ flying colors. If anything, ho­ as a sin and condemn it as  
stance, was written to prevent  mosexuality should be con­ such. What ever our opinions,  
the common practice of making  demned even more strongly to­ we should not allow ourselves  
burn offerings of facial hair to  day in light of the rise of AIDS  to be silenced by social pres­ 
pagan gods. This context no  and social taboos against it.  sures. Homosexuality is begin­ 
longer exists today, so the law  Before leaving this topic, it  ning to come out of the the  
is not irrelevant. Similarly, the  should be noted that homosex­ closet, but debate about it still  
law against women wearing  uals are no more guilty than  remains firmly in the dark.  
jewelry or braiding their hair  the rest of us. In addition to  
was written at a time when  speaking out against homosex­ Rick Acker is a student in the  
most of the women who diri this  uality, St. Paul also states that  Notre Dame Law School.  


LETTERS 
Information not always enough to prevent attacks 
Dear Editor: gestions on how to prevent at­2. Victims are assaulted by 
It is with a great deal of frus­tacks, while presented in a hu­strangers, casual acquain­tration and little humor that I morous tone, all imply that a tances and loved ones. read Janice O'Leary's column, woman's behavior and/or ap­"Campus Crime Wave Poses pearance will influence an at­3. Victims are assaulted on Perplexing Problems" (The tacker to such a degree that dark streets, at parties, in resi­Observer, Sept. 18). I feel women can ensure their safety. dence halls and private homes. Janice and her friends should Please stop re-victimizing vic­be commended for facing the tims by suggesting they could 4. Assaults are crimes of reality that they could be vic­have controlled their attackers anger, rage and violence, not tims and discussing what they by recognizing that: beauty and passion. might do if ever faced with this frightening situation. 1. Victims are of both sexes, Rita J. Donley, Ph.D. 
Knowledge and information are all ages, races, religions and Coordinator ofClinical Services valuable tools but not a guar­degrees of physical attractive­University Counseling Center antee you will be safe. The sug-neso,;. 
Sept. 21, 1989 

The Observer retains the right to edit all commentaries submitted to the Viewpoint department. Please note that the more concise the piece, the less we will have to edit it to fill our space. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
GARRY TRUDEAU 


--------------~---------------------·-------­
Viewpoint
Monday, September 25, 1989 page 9 
Why was ND tempted by 'Last Temptation'? 
By Edward J. Murphy 
A department of the University is sponsoring a pub­lic showing of "The Last Temptation of Christ." Why? Why would the Department of Communication and Theatre do this? And why would the Snite Museum of Art cooperate in this nefarious enterprise? 
My wife and I were among those who picketed in protest when this movie was shown in Mishawaka last fall. Although I had read a great deal about the movie, including extensive ex­cerpts from the script and the book on which it is based, I had not seen the film. Because of the taunts of some patrons that I had no right to protest with­out having first seen the movie, I did see it. 
Actually, the movie was much worse, much more insidious than I had expected it to be. From beginning to end, it is a veritable tissue of falsehood and distortion. To be sure, there is a disclaimer at the be­
ginning that the events are 
fictitious and not based on the 
Gospels. But the movie is about 
a historical figure, Jesus Christ, 
not Joe Messiah. Does one have 
a "right" to lie about historical 
events, even if one admits to 
doing so? 

Let me illustrate: 
1. 
Do you believe that Jesus Christ was unsure of who He was? Do you believe He doubted His divinity? Do you believe He was a wimpy charac­ter whose message was tenta­tive and incoherent? (Movie:Jesus: ''I'm a liar, a hyp­ocrite, I'm afraid of everything. I don't ever t~ll the truth. I don't have the courage .... You want to know who my God is? FPar! You look inside me and that's all you'll find .... Lucifer is inside me.") 

2. 
Do you believe that Jesus, voyeur-like, watched Mary Magdalene have sex with a cus­tomer? Do you believe Jesus asked her to forgive Him?(Movie: Jesus: "I want you to forgive me. I've done many bad things.I'm going to the 


desert. I need you to forgive me before I go. Please."Mary Magdalene: "Oh, I see. You said I'll have a day with you. And thenyou come in here with your head down saying 'Forgive me. Forgive me.'It's not that easy. Just because you need forgive­ness, don't ask me to do it....You're not a man. You're the same as all the others, only you can't admit it. You're piti­ful. I hate you!"). 
3. 
Do you believe Jesus asked Judas to betray Him? (Movie: Jesus: "You promised me. Remember, you once told me that if I moved one step from revolution you'd kill me. Remember?" Judas: "Yes." Jesus: "I've strayed. haven't I? Then you must keep your promise, you have to kill me.") 

4. 
Do you believe Jesus made crosses which He sold to the Romans for use in crucifying Jews? (Movie: Judas: "You're a disgrace. Romans can't find anybody to make crosses, ex­cept for you. You do it. You're worse than them! You're a Jew killing Jews. You're a coward! How will you ever pay for your 


sins?" Jesus: "With my life, Judas. I don't have anything else.") 
This is but a sample of the lies about .TPsus in this bias­
'Why would anyone want to help spread lies about Jesus? Are we to assume that nobody involved is aware of what this movie is all about?' 
phemous film. But it is not only about Jesus that vicious lies are told; His friends fare no better. For example, the apostle Paul is portrayed as a liar and a hypocri~e who invents the story of Jesus' resurrection to make people feel better. Virtually ev­eryone who is close to Jesus is smeared, including His mother. Our Lady is cast as a bitter and frustrated woman who neither understands nor accepts the mission of her son. 
So we return to the question: Why? Why is this movie being 

LETTERS 
Athlete leaves his mark on children 
Dear Editor: 
It is evident that many chil­dren look to those who succeed in athletics as role models. It is also apparent that there are many not worthy of such an honor. With the questionable acts of Pete Rose and the Cleve­land Brown's Kevin Mack last summer, it is not surprising that many children are becom­ing disillusioned with their pre­vious sports heroes. 
However, on Sept. 14, a cer­tain athlete appeared at a pep rally at St. Joseph grade school in downtown South Bend. The effect this gentleman had on 
the children was overwhelming. Dear Editor: are evil; the others are occurrence stemming from Not only could they not believe In Father Griffin's latest messages of hope and promise. Satan's victory. God is omnipo­that he was at their school, but "Letters to a Lonely God" (Sept. Mary has promised that a tent-He could use His power to that he was talking to them 15), I feel there needs to be beautiful and indestructible ensure himself victory, but He about the value of education some clarification about the sign will appear in the hills of endowed man with free will. It shown on the Notre Dame campus? As an "academic exer­cise"? But this is not a private showing in a class where a teacher and students study and critique the film. Rather, the movie is being advertised in campus publications, and the public is being urged to attend. Tickets are to be sold, suggest­ing that the sponsors might even be hoping to turn a profit. (One cannot but recall that Judas received thirty pieces of silver for his betrayal.) 

Why would anyone want to help spread lies about Jesus? Are we to assume that nobody involved is aware of what this movie is all about? It is, of course, possible that many, if not all, of those responsible are "useful idiots," to use Lenin's term for those naive 1ypes who unwittingly do the insiders' work. 
"The Last Temptation of Christ" is an outrage, and those of us who acknowledge Jesus as Lord dare not remain silent. 
Edward J Murphy is the Matthews Professor of Law at the Notre Dame T.aw School. 
Volleyball tourney grateful for help 
Dear Editor: 
We would like to thank all 

those who contributed to the 
success of the Lyons Volleyball 
Tournament on Sept. 9. With 
their help, we were able to raise 
$330. The money will be divided 
with $230 going to the Center 
for the Homeless in South Bend 
and the remainder to Santa 
Cruz, a refugee village in El 
Salvador. Sixty-four teams 
volleyed for the top spot which 
was finally claimed by the team 
consisting of Mike Miller, Pedro 
Nemalceff, Leo Casas, Nora 
Purtell, Megan Ringquist, Mark 
Gerardi and Christa Lopiccolo. 
Their prize consisted of a team 
dinner at Macri's Deli. 
All participants in the tour­nament were eligible for a raf­fle. Michael Smith won brunch 
and even buying their first of messages of Medjugorje. Medjugorje to forewarn man of would be against His basic for 2 at Tippecanoe. Sheila many candy bars to be sold. Though Father is, I'm sure, ex­the coming of evil and desti­principles to punish us for ex­Steward will enjoy dinner with Needless to say there are quite pressing his own personal in­tution in the world. Mary has ercising that will as well as a friend at The Old Spaghetti a few children who will refuse terpretation of the messages, I told the children that one of the save those who do not come to Works. Laura Navarro received to take a bath for fear of would like to offer an alterna­secrets, a detrimental one, has Him under their own accord. 2 movie passes for University washing the hand that shook tive and perhaps more hearten­already been nullified with our Park Cinema East. Thank you with Tony Rice. ing view of Medjugorje and its prayers. Some people need the extra to all of the merchants who do­
While it is a shame that some messages. My disagreement with Father push which comes from the nated these gifts. don't realize that the re­For the past eight years the Griffin stems from his force­peace and love (not to mention We would also like to thank tributions of their actions ex­Virgin Mary has been appearing fully expressed opinion th11t miracles) which flow through Scott Tallarida for donating his tend far beyond their personal to six children in Medjugorje, God will be responsible for the Medjugorje. Be more optimistic, time as the DJ for the event. consequences, it was touching Yugoslavia. The messages from destruction. As Catholics who Father. Our god is a loving Lastly, a special thanks goes to to see what a good influence Mary call people to conversion believe in a benevolent God, it God, but, He needs and wants William Hickey and the certain people can have on the through prayer and fasting. To would be more along tradi­our help. Medjugorje is his way University Food Services for impressionable outlooks and these children, Mary has tional lines to assume that the of asking people for that help. providing us with a picnic at attitudes of the young. bestowed secrets which are devastation which Mary talks Think about it. Stepan Field. 
traditionally held to contain about with the children will oc­Ashley McCourtney Victoria Stolarski knowledge of the destruction cur because without our help, Maureen Fitzgerald Laura Kirchofer Lisa Totten which will ravage the earth if i.e. our conversion, God will Regina Hall Lyons Hall Co-Presidents Augusta Hall people do not convert. In lose His struggle with Satan. Sept. 15, 1989 Sept. 18, 1989 
Sept. 14, 1989 reality, only some of the secrets The ravaging could be a natural 
Constitutional right to privacy was never intended to protect self-destructive behavior 
Dear Editor: dealing with alcohol should in kill so many of the innocent vic­ment. I will surmise though fort must be directed at many
I find it necessary to respond no way obscure the debate tims in American cities. These that they did not intend self-de­points. The educational effort to the letter from Mr. Mills of about and the manner in which drugs are supplied by the very structive behavior that affects can not be limited to illegalSept. 15. First, I am very willing we deal with drugs and their drug cartels that are attempt­the entire nation to be wrapped drugs but must encompass al­to acknowledge the fact that abuse. Mr. Mills seems to be­ing to reduce the Columbian na­in and protected by our right to cohol, legally-obtained or pre­most Americans have developed lieve that there is no connection tion to ruins and have already privacy. · scription drugs, and other sub­a schizophrenic attitude toward between the casual drug user destabilized and undermined I do not quite understand stances. Nothing will be ac­drugs and alcohol, and Notre and the violence that plagues many other governments what Mr. Mills means by his complished by complacency on Dame is no exception. The not only the U.S. but many throughout South America and statement "truly democratic the part of and a laissez-faire 
seriousness of alcohol abuse parts of the rest of the world. Asia. Does Mr. Mills actually society." Democracy was never attitude toward the casual and alone is evidenced by the fact believe that the dealers care intended to protect and con­social user. that over 25,000 people are The casual user obtains his who buys the drugs? done all behavior that one may killed annually by drunk or her drug of choice quite desire to act out. 
Tim Schorn 

drivers. As a member of the often from the same chain that Second, no constitutional 
Graduate Student 

Flanner Hall head staff, alcohol the criminals referred to in Mr. rights are absolute. I obviously It is very obvious that, to end Government Department abuse is one of my major Mills' letter do. It is these same do not know all that the writers the epidemic that is spreading Assistant Rector concerns. drug chains that take part in of the Constitution had in mind throughout the world and espe­Planner Hall 
The problems we face when the gang wars that injure o:r when they drafted the docu-cially the U.S., a concerted ef-Sept. 15, 1989 
.. Accent 
Monday, September 25, 1989
page 10 

'Chicken Soup'­ABC's appetizer 


-
If the Christians thought tlw lions were tough, they should nwet Bea Fisher. Overprotective mother is an understatement for this woman whose accent immediately suggests her Jewish heritage. She's serving up matzo and a gn~at dPal of trouble in her 
"Chicken Soup." 
The newest special on ABC's Tuesday night menu is "Chicken Soup," whieh comes to a boil at 8:30 on Tuesday nights. Jackie Mason stars as Jackin ~isher. a Jewish pajama salesman. Well. he was a pajama salesman until he quit his job in the first Ppisode. Now he helps his next door neighbor Maddie Peerce (Lynn Hedgrave) at an inner-city community cen­ter. 
It's BPa Fisher (Hita Karin) who adds the flavor to the broth. Bea wants Jackie to lind a nice Jewish girl to date. In fact, she 4mmediately exprnsses her concern over Jackie's recent lae.k of a social life. "As mother to son, I think we can talk openly," she says. "Am you gay?" Of course he isn't. but if there's any doubt, it's Bea's fault. Who names her son Jackie? 
What viewms discover later (or probably predicted from the beginning) is that .Jackie is dating someone: Maddie, the girl next door. Maddie is a widow who is trying to raise her three children as devout Catholics. Since both Jackie and MaddiP know how Bca feels about rPligiously mixed n~lationships, they keep thnirs a secret. 
That's not to say Bea and Maddie don't like e;u~h other; tht~y just won't be ex­changing Christmas presents. Actually, Bea likes Maddie's company and baby­sits her children. Stw tells .lackiP, "If she were a Gentile, I'd tell you to date her." lie replies, "If I wnre a Gentile. I wouldn't have to listPn." Later he reflects upon his situation: "''ve heard of people chm1ting on tlwir wivns. Why am I the only guy in the world chnating on his mother?" 
One of the main themes of the show is the process of 
Jackie putting his life in order. In fact, it is from this thnme that one of the show's best flavors comes. Each episode begins and ends with Jackie thinking out loud on the roof of his apartment. During these monologues. Jackie expresses his opinions on anything and everything. He thinks doctors are evil people who are like criminals. "Why do you think they wear gloves? Germs? No, fingerprints." 

JOE BUCOLO 
To Be Continued... 
Finally, Jackie decides to turn his life around. He goes into his boss' office to quit; however, his boss fires him first. Jackie argues and manages to get rehired­only to turn around and quit. Then he tells Bea about his relationship to Maddie. ··we'rn going to be a couple." She replies, "Why couldn't you be gay like everyone else?" And they thought Pharaoh was bad. 
The (six-pointed) star of the show is obviously Mason. lie steals the show with his witty comments and monologues. Karin is also quite good, but obviously models her character after Sophia from "The Golden 
Girls." It's Hedgrave who needs work. Apparently a series isn't as easy as Weight Watchers commercials. Hedgrave seems unsure of herself and (gulp!) even uninterested. Viewers may bn disappointed in her portrayal of the show's leading lady. She's definitely in Mason's shadow. 
The first new show of the season may be one of the best. No doubt positioning "Chicken Soup" between "Hoseanne" and "thirtysomething" will ensure the show high ratings; however, the appealing nature of the program makes it able to stand on its own. This is a flavorful, fun show. No flies in this "Soup." 

'The Package' promises guts and gore for Hackman fans 
... the movie takes off, 
with twists and turns 
requiring the viewer's 
undivided attention. It has 
a well-crafted plot, in the 
style of recent films such as 
'The Presidio' and 'No 
Way Out.' 

Johnny Gallagher (Gene Hackman) examines evidence found near a corpse. 

JANICE ARCHER 
accent writer 
A complex thriller with politi­cal intrigue, "The Package" is an exciting movie and well­worth seeing for those who don't mind putting forth a little effort. 
"The Package," starring Gene Hackman and Joanna Cassidy, is action-packed. The action opens in East Berlin, where the President of the United States and the General Secretary of the Soviet Union arc hammer­ing out the last points of a rev­olutionary treaty. This treaty, which is to be signed at thr, United Nations only days be­fore Christmas. will forever eliminate the threat of nuclear war. All nuelear weapons are to be rendered useless. 
Since this event is garnering such media attention, the U. S. Army has troops patrolling the woods outside the building where negotiations are taking place. Johnny Gallagher (llackman) is the leader of this group. While on patrol. Gal­lagher and his team come across two backpackers and turn them over to the East Ber­lin police. 
Later on, high-ranking Soviet and American officials are senn discussing plans. The purposl' of these plans is not clear. What is apparent is that !IIW American refuses to be a part of the plot. Whilr, the diss1mting American is being driv1~n down a winding road, tlw backpack­ers re-enter the movie. They pull out a detonator and blow up the baek of the ear. In a ratlwr gory scenP, tlw back­packers proc11ed to kill the American and the oth1~rs in the car with sub-machine guns. Since this takes place in Gal­lagher's territory, he is blarn1~d. lie is promptly given a rww as­signment-to deliv1~r a package 

to the UnitPd States. This "package" is Walter Henke, a soldier being sent home for a court-marshal hearing. 
From this point, tlw movie takes ofT with twists and turns requiring the viewer's undivided attrmtion. It has a wPII-eral"tnd plot, in the style of rnomt lilrns such as "ThP Presidio" and "No Way Out," in which llaekman also starred. "Thn Package" can become quite confusing at times, but as with most movies of its kind, everything is ex­plained at the end. 
Gene llaekrnan turns in a wonderful performance as thP hardworking sergeant blamed for a disastor he has no part in. 
I lis rharartPr's shnPr dPtPrmi­nation to find out what is going on is tlw driving foreP lwhind tiH' advancement oftlw plot. llaekman is nxtn•mdy likabiP in this roll', gaining viewer sympa­thy while keeping tlw audierH'P glued to tlw action. 
Joanna Cassidy, as l.t. Col. Eileen Gallaglwr, Gallaglwr's 1~x-wife. dons a firw job with a roiP that is relatively supportiw to I Iackman. After Gallaglwr !.ands in A.~·lington with his 
package, plans go awry and he calls her for help. As tlw ac­tion moves from Arlington to Chieago, whem the l'resich~nt and tlw Gennral S1~eretarv are also making a stop on th;~ir peace tour, Cassidy's eharaetN drops into the background while the aetion beeonws mom fast-pared. 
Small details in "The Pack­age" that appear ineonsequnn­tial at the time return only to be extremely important later, as in the ease with the bark­packers, so the effort to pay at­tention is wnll-rnwardnd. This is a v1~ry exciting movie with nail-biting senrws, so viewers cannot be studying their pop­corn or the eyes of their date while watching this movie. 

the Irish consistently attacked their zone with numer(lus play­
Soccer 
ers. Their persistence paid off 
America ties Europe in Ryder Cup
continued from page 16 in the game's last three min­
Associated Press Am . . f th S · h . J
utes. encans 1ed m seven o e pams Journeyman ose­
ulation, the Irish offense kept consistent pressure on the Marquette defense but could not break the tie. 
In the first of the two 15 minute, non-sudden death over­time periods, Marquette shocked the Irish and their par­tisan crowd by scoring just three minutes into the period. Scott Steinbauer scored the goal, his second of the game, on a shot to the upper left corner from 20 yards out. 
The period ended with no other major threats from either team. The stage was now set for the game's exciting conclu­sion. With Marquette in an ob­
viously defensive style of play, ended 
Classifieds 
Danny Lyons sent a punt across midfield where it took one high bounce over two Marquette defenders. Forward Kevin Pendergast first got to the ball and tapped it to his left and into the possession of Junior Mark Crowe. Crowe took one dribble and slid the ball under Marquette's keeper Dave Wulff from about eight yards out. Only two and a half min­utes remained. It was Crowe's first goal of the season, and a timely one at that. 
Not content with just a tie, the Irish continued to attack the Marquette zone, but to no avail. A long, hard-fought game 
in a 2-2 tie. 
SUTTON COLDFIELD, England -Each team let vic­tory escape Sunday as Europe and the United States rode an emotional rollercoaster to an inconclusive 14-14 tie in the Ryder Cup golf competition. 
Europe, which won these bi­ennial matches in 1985 and 1987, retained the trophy, but blew a chance for outright vic­tory late on the mild, sunny day. 
And the United States, once on the brink of a great come­back, blew it, too. 
The Americans did it first. 
After Tom Kite and Chip Beck won the first two of the 12 closing singles matches, the 10 matches still out, were even Maria Canizares, 42, beat Ken in another and had their goal in Green on the final hole for a 1­sight. up decision. 
But, just like two years ago That gave Europe an unbeat­when they lost at Muirfield able 14 points and a 14-10 lead Village in Dublin, Ohio, the with four matches remaining Americans' comeback bid died before an excited gallery of on the final hole. about 27,000 at the Belfry Golf 
Center. This time it drowned. The first three Americans The Europeans needed only to 
who reached the 18th tee drove tie one of those four matches to into the water. Another stayed score a third consecutive on land, but bogeyed after outright victory. missing the green. Still another­three-putted. But Mark McCumber, Tom 
Watson, Lanny Wadkins and 

Five consecutive matches Curtis Strange -even though went to the Europe team. they knew the Cup was gone ­Captain Tony Jacklin's squad came back with victories in the clinched at least a tie when four remaining matches. 
The Observer accepts class1fieds every bustness day from 10 a.m. to 3:30pm at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Maris office. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifleds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. tncluding spaces. 
---------------------------$7.00 HOUR, ON CAMPUS Help, the whole family is coming AIR FORCE -need 3 tix. call John Save dad's job! Boss and family ADOPTION, A LOVING 
PROJECT WORK. FLEXIBLE for USC, so we need lots of tickets. at 1665. need 2-4 USC GA or stdnt tix. 
ALTERNATIVE. 81L ALUM 

HOURS. CALL IHRD 233-4493. Willing to pay big bucks. Call John PLEASE call Pete at X1699-l'd like 
NOTICES 
WISHES TO ADOPT AN INFANT.

or Erich at x1622 . FOR SALE!!!! 1 Michigan State GA to stay at ND.$$ 
LOVING HOME, CERTIFIED TOPANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard Need a babysitter in my home for Ticket. Best offer by 10 pm Thurs. 

ADOPT, EXPENSES PAID. CAN3 blks. from ND campus 233-2342 two children 6 and 3 years old Call Brian at #1804 NEED 2 GA's FOR BE CONFIDENTIAL OR OPEN. IF$$$ FOR YOUR BOOKS (noon-5:30 daily M-F). References Desperate! Will give my first born PITiorNAVY YOU OR SOMEONE YOU KNOWWE BUY AND SELL USED required, please call 255-3869 or any $ for 2 USC GAs Chris B Me and Adam need some USC tix. Please Call Vin x-2015 IS CONSIDERING ADOPTION, TEXTBOOKS !!!I!!!!!!!!!!!!! after 5:30. #1484 Seven to be exact. Call Brian or CALL MIKE & JEAN COLLECT ATAdam at #1804. ($$$$$) 602-482-0905.

Word processing experience plus HELP! Need 4 Pitt GAs for my I NEED 2 PITI GA'S (!"OR MY BA in English 271-0682. ATIENTION-HIRING! family Call Chad x1132 Hi, I'm Rob. I need 4 Navy Tickets. PARENTS)!!! CALL CARYN 4830. 
GOT A GREAT IDEA? 

Government jobs -your area. Please call #1804 an give them to SEND AN ARTICLE TOTYPING $17,840-$69,485. Call 1-602-838-Need up to 4 Mich St & 8 Pitt TIX me. NEED 4 PITI GA'S COMMON SENSEJACKIE BOGGS 8885. EXT R 6262. Money no problem!! Mike X1236 CALL DAVE 283-1417 P.O. BOX957684-8793 NEED GA TIX FOR ANY HOME NOTRE DAME, IN 46556GAMES. CALL MATI 272-3491.
ATIENTION: EARN MONEY DEADLINE: SEPT 30.
LEGAL SECRETARY WILL DO DESPERATELY SEEKING 5 USC
READING BOOKS! $32,000/year
TYPING/WORD PROCESSING. GA'S. PLEASE CALL CARl 2855. DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA'S I NEED USC AND PITI
income potential. Details. (1) 602-HiT.Bass!!!
PICK UP & DELIVERY AVAILABLE TO THE PITI GAME -PARENTS TICKETS.
838-8885 Ext Bk 6262.
CALL 255-1726. COMING!! PLEASE CALL 
H.......E....L ...P Hi Jeff
CALL JACKIE X4114 BRIAN AT X2322 OR X2376 NEED 2-4 GA'S (TOGETHER) CP, Student Comedy, Bands and 
FOR RENT 
FOR ANY GAME. WILL PAY BIG Ag coffehouse call 277-3653 Alumni $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
MOOLAH ($$). PLEASE CALL Sr. Club wants you.... BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Alumni need USC tix. Will MIAMI FLIGHTS • MIAMI 
JEFF 277-3998. 

ELVIS IS DEAD and so am I if I
219-291-7153. pay big lawyer bucks !! FLIGHTS
can't find 3 GA tickets to the Pitt Round-trip airfares to Miami orHELP, THE WHOLE FAMILY IS 
game. 317-743-7208.2 BEDROOM HOUSE FOR RENT. COMING FOR USC, SO WE NEED Fort Lauderdale. Depart Nov. 22 SAINT MARY'S RIDING CLUB!!!! 
from Midway (Chicago); return5 MINUTE WALK TO CAMPUS. LOTS OF TICKETS. WILLING TO 

WANTED: USC vs. 

Help! Need 3 GA tickets to Pitt$350.234-4153. PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL JOHN ORCLASSES NOW FORMING Nov. 27 to Midway (Chi.). 
game. 317-743-7208.


NDllCKETS 
$239 for students, $265 for others. 
ERIK AT 1622• ENGLISH AND WESTERN 

24hr. answering service 
Tix sold on first-come, first-serveFURNISHED APT. FOR SUBLET Need TIXX to any home football • INTERCOLLIGIATE SHOWING basis, and are non-refundable.

3 MALE ROOMMATES. $140 
(213) <137-4161 

game.Big $$$.Call John X1583• P.E. CREDIT AVAILIABLE I NEED 6 PITI TICKETS CALL Anthony Travel 1-800-7DOMERSCALL TODD 232-5571 
Home (213)422-2812

277-9281 OR X2760. <CALL EMILY AT 284-5085> WILL PAY$$$$$$$$$ 
*HELP THE NEEDYOR SHERRIE AT 683-3068 2 BDRM HOUSE NEAR ND, $350 •• R.E.M. ticket contest ••

I need 2USC tixNeed two SMU tix please call 284­

MO. 272-6306 Call Sam at (201) 334-3804 Do you want to see R.E.M. on Fri.
I need 2SMU tix GA4930!!!!!!!!!! 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Sept. 29? Then listen to WVFI I!
call 4364 Kevin HHave you figured out... 

When you hear an R.E.M. song ,

NEED SEVERAL PITI GA'S
FOR SALE 
PLEASE HELP!! be the first caller and get your ...how you're going to do it? PLEASE!! #2819 
I desperately need an SMU name in a drawing to win a pair of '89 NO GRAD SELLING '82 OLDS student of GA ticket!! Thanks! free tickets! Drawing on Sept. 27
R.E.M. TICKETSHuh? Have you? Any ideas? NEED TICKETS FOR ALL N.D.

WAGON. GOOD CONDITION, Johanna at # 4456 ••• WVFI AM 640 ••• 
Four 13th row, center tickets GAMES. 272-9772 AFTER-P.M.
RUNS WELL. NO PROBLEMS 
Best offer. Call 3590 or 3897 TYPING AVAILABLE. 
STARTING OR MAINTAINING. HELP!! I need 3 SMU GA's for a $1200 (NEG.) GREAT FOR priest friend. If you sell me your TO THE BIRTHDAY GIRLS­
287-4082. I Need 1 SMU GA..
SCHOOL, BETIER FOR tickets, maybe you'll go to Heaven! KELLY & LISA-HAVE A GREAT 
Need many MIAMI tix. I Need 4 PITI. GAs.. Word Processing available. GETIING TO & FROM. CALL $ $ $ $ Call x2335 Call Chris @ 289-9811 DAY! Reasonable rates. 277-6091 Barry 289-8417.
CHRIS AT (312) 935-8368 AFTER LOVE, MOM, DAD & KRISTIN 7PM. 
$$$$ K. x2597 $$$$ 
OH, AND NANC,NEED 4 NAVY GAs X3500-WATIS 

need 2-3 USC GA'S NEED 2 USC GAS AND 7 NAVY I LOVE YOU! '75 chevy; runs great; $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
LOST/FOUND I 
GAS!!!!!! CALL JULIE X3141 !!!!!!! 
LOST: GOLD CLADDAGH RING $600/negotiable OUTSIDE O'SHAG. DIAMOND call 282-1327 
NEED FOUR GA's TO NAVY!I!I! 
TOP$ STONE 
PLEASE CALL KARIN x1321 !!! 
I NEED 2 USC GA's!!!!l! ALL HOME GA'S CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE MAURA x3835. 312-920-9350 atmosphere, daily & weekly

The Units need USC Tix! Call Amy at 2640. BIG $$$! 
CALL X2670 OR 277-9281 IF ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT specials, pool table, English darts, FOUND. HOMES from $1 (U-repair). 
and great company. 234-3541 Delinquent tax property. $$$$$$$$$$ Please... need 2 USC GA's!!! Also Repossessions. Call 1-602-838-HAVE tix to any game-will trade for 3 Navy GA's or Stu. and 1 SMU ADOPTION: Loving, professional LOST: JEAN JACKET WITH NEED 2 USC GA'S

8885 Ext. GH 6262. 2 USC stud or GA. GA. JEFF at 271-8309. Thanks!!!! 
couple in Midwest wishes to adoptCORDUROY COLLAR. JACKET CALL CAROLYN X451 0 newborn. We offer stable and

HAS A TEAR BEHIND THE NECK AND HAS A 1988 US OLYMPIC I DEMAND 6 stud t1x and 2 GA's $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
happy home, financtal security,ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT 
PLANE TICKET: one-way Chicago 
Need SMU and NAVY GA's: welcoming extended family. 
PIN ON THE LEFT POCKET. for the PITI game--Pete L.x1791 
to Salt Lake, good from 11-6-89 toSEIZED VEHICLES FROM $100. 
Call Jim at 287-9854 PLEASE call collect 513-751-6711 REWARD OFFERED FOR 10-30-90, female only, $140 OBO. 
FORDS, MERCEDES, $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ after 6:30 pm weekdays, anytime RETURN. CALL MARK . X3467 Call Karin at x2565.

CORVETIES, CHEVYS. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ weekends.Attorney involved. SURPLUS BUYERS GUIDE. 1-NEED 2 SMU TICKETS-GA'SFOUND: a watch in Knott study I NEED PURDUE & ALL HOME602-838-8885 EXT. A 6262. PLEASE CALL 277-9281 Attention N.D. Students!
I REALLY REALLY REALLY need room. Kathleen x4930. 

GAME TIX 272-6306$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 2 Navy GA or stud. tix. If you can79 BUICK LIMITED $4.50 Haircutshelp me out, call Kate at x3858. 

LOST: Gold chain with cross in 85'000 MILES. VERY GOO,Dthe Rockne. If found please call I NEED 2 PITI GA'sCONDITION. 
VITO'S BARBERSHOP Colin at x1930. I need 3 USC GA's-call Jahnelle I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S FOR MY PARENTS239-7455 WEEKDAYS 9AM-4PM x2979 and 1 SMUGA 1523 Lincolnway West 

CALL SUE x2485 233-4767CALL KRISTEN AT X2735 

school. Call 283-2637 !o claim. HELP!!!!I TRADE FOUND: BLACK CAT by the law 
One-way ticket Midway to NEED 3 GA'S FOR PITI.,NAVY, 
Apt 1622 #5 Turtle Creek-Please, LaGuardia Sun. P.M. Oct. 22 I NEED 4 USC GA's for my family! 1 USC Student ticket for 1 USC GA OR USC. HAVE CASH AND PITI. 

No Running Naked Through that 

[ WANTED l 
Call 277-0679 Please call Bryan at 2285. . Call Joe 283-4821 STUD. TO TRADE! 
Apartment. Thank you, The

CALL JOE AT 2079 V-Tapes all1988-89 N.D. football Helpl !I !I 
NEED SMU TICKETS Management. COLOR TV $40; 20 GAL FISH 
games. Please call Paul Roy 232-I need a student or GA for USC for Student or GA's Call Joe 283-4821 WANTED 2 FOR USC WILLAQUARIUM $70 272-6306 A BIG THANK YOU from SWEIJEC
my brother. Please call Steve-2285 PITI or USC GAs needed To all that helped with INDUSTRY7602 TRADE 2 PENN ST 301-949-4392 
COLLECT

Great Bahamian vacation!!lllll desparately. Please call DAY! Thanks especially to theNeed ride to Pittsburgh Oust one call x1839 for details hosts and banquet crew, as well as
way) for October break. Need to I need USC GA's. Will beat best Mike at #2288. DAMIAN SHINER and ADWORKS!
leave Sunday morn. the 22 (after offer. Ann x2830 PURDUE TIX-5 TIX AVAILABLE the USC game). Will help with 
TICKETS NEED SEVERAL PITI TIX BEST OFFER. CALL 317-743­expenses. Call Nicole 2784. Need Pitt student tix (3). Call PLEASEII #2819 2443. 
Thanks for a great weekend one and all. Regis -where were you?

Travel Tour Operator needs Nicole 2784. 
NEED 2 USC GA'S John -don't get sick every time 
tickets for all N.D. games-home and away, especially MSU, USC NEED 2 USC GAs!! Rebecca 4975 
Please Call Vin x-2015 someone says "
PERSONALS
NEED 4 PITT GAs 
Southern Comfort". Couple A andand Miami. Premium price paid. 

CALL DOUG at x1065 Couple B: Let me know if yo're
Immediate case available. Will I NEED 2 PITI GA WILL TRADE 2 ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE 
need 2 NAVY ga's. Will trade for OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS getting engaged anytime soon so Itrade for all major sporting events USC STU ROB X1682 stud tix (any game) or buy. x3202. can get fitted for a tux. Thank you
I will pay for ALL EXPENSES for a including Final 4, Indy 500 and COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A all for treating this alumnus with 
ride to Cleveland, traveling any bowl game, etc. Will also buy CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: time between 9/28 and 10/2. season tickets. Please call Dave at NEED PITI TIX : 2 GA 1 STUD 
have stud tix (2, sec 30) for all POOR CLARES. 117!" N. COUNTY absolutely zero respect. Please call 288-2956 1-800-828-8955 today. MUCHO DINERO • BOB Q x1409 home games x3202 RD. 300 W, KOKOMO, IN 46901. 
-Mark 



Monday, Se~ember25, 1989
The Observer

page 12 
Devon 
continued from page 16 
mont. I know I have to keep on 
working. 
"You need a strong defense to 

be a good team and to give the 
offense momentum and I know 
I'm not strong against the run, 
so I've got to work on that." 
Few Spartans will agree with 

McDonald's criticism of his 
play against the run. 
McDonald did his part trying 

to make life miserable for 
Spartan tailback Hyland 
Hickson and quarterback Enos. 
On MSU's first possession of 

the second quarter, he clocked 
Hickson as he tried to sweep 
left, allowing him a meager 
one-yard gain. 
lie was just getting warmed up. 
The Irish defense took the 

field with 1:56 left in the first 
half, after MSU free safety 
Mike laquaniello picked off a 
Tony Hice pass and returned it 
16 yards to Notre Dame's 49­
yard line, with the chore of pre­
venting the Spartans from tak­
ing the game's momentum into 
the lockcrroom. 
McDonald pounced on his chance to stifle MSU's last­minute surge on the first Spartan play of the drive, nail­ing Enos to the turf for a loss of six yards. 
lie wasn't finished yet, as he chased down a rolling Enos nine plays later and drove him into the ground for an eight­yard loss sufficiently halting a Spartan drive which had ad­vanced to Notre Dame's 13 yard-line before his sack. 
The sack stymied the Spartans' hopes for a touch­down, forcing them to retire at the half with a field goal. 
BBFOBEYOU HAVE '1'0 BURY 'YOUR BEAD IN BOOKS..• 
Come See Us! 


The Top 25 
llow The Assodated Press Top Twenty Five college football teams fared and their next opponents: 
I. Notre Dame (3-0-0) beat Michigan State 21-13; Next: at Purdue. 
2. 
Miami. Fla. (3-0-0) beat Missouri 38-7; Next: at Michigan State. 

3. 
Nebraska (3-0-0) beat Minnesota 48-0; Next: vs. Oregon State. 

4. 
Auburn (2-0-0) did not play; Next: at No. 14 Tennessee. 

5. 
Michigan (1-1-0) beat No. 24 UCLA 24-23; Next: vs. Maryland. 

6. 
Colorado (3-0-0) did not play; Next:at No. 11 Washington. 

7. 
Clemson (4-0-0) beat Maryland 31-7; Next: at Duke. 

8. 
Arkansas (2-0-0) beat Mississippi 24-17; Next: vs. Texas-El Paso. 

9. 
West Virginia (4-0-0) beat Louisville 30-21; Next: vs. No. 13 Pittsburgh. 

10. 
Syracuse (2-1-0) lost to Pittsburgh 30-23; Next: vs. Florida State. 


II. Washington (2-1-0) lost to Arizona 20-17: Next: at No. 22 Oregon. 
12. 
SouthPrn Cal (2-1-0) beat Ohio State 42-3; Next: at Washington State. 

13. 
Pittsburgh (3-0-0) beat No. 10 Syracuse 30-23; Next: at West Virginia. 

14. 
Tennessee (3-0-0) did not play; vs. No. 4 Auburn. 

15. 
Alabama (2-0-0) beat Kontucky 15-3; Next: at Vanderbilt. 

16. 
Oklahoma (2-1-0) did not play; Next: at Kansas. 

17. 
Houston (2-0-0) beat Arizona StatP 36-7; Npxt: at Temple. 

18. 
North Carolina Stat<• (4-0-0) beat N. Carolina 40-6; Next: Kent State. 

19. 
Washington State (4-0-0) beat Wyoming 29-23; Next: vs. Southern Cal. 

20. 
Illinois (2-1-0) beat Utah State 41-2; Next: at No. 25 Ohio State. 

21. 
Texas A&M (2-1-0) did not play; Next: vs. Southern Mississippi. 

22. 
Oregon (2-1-0l lost to Stanford 18-17; Next: vs. No. 23 Arizona. 

23. 
Arizona (3-1-0) beat No. 11 Washington 20-17: Next: at No. 22 On•gcm. 

24. 
UClA (1-2-0l lost to No. 5 Michigan 24-23; Next: vs. California. 

25. 
Ohio State (1-1-0) lost to No. 12 USC 42<{; Next: vs. Boston Colleg!'. 


1---------------------------l 
McDonald kept the adrenalin alive to start the second half giving Hickson a two-yard gain on MSU's first play of the half before slamming him to the sod. 
McDonald made his presence known on the field, whether pounding Spartans individually or with the help of teammates. 
"MSU's got a tough line ," McDonald said. "Personally, I think they're better than 
AMERICAN 
CANCER
~
SOCIETYIt 

Happy 21st J_oe__ 
Love, 

Mom, Dad, &your little "pard" 
Michigan. But we were a little more effective than them today. 
"I've been working on staying on my feet and keeping my body square. All week in practice (Defensive End) Coach (Jay) Hayes showed me some new techniques and I used them, so it looks like they worked." 
Irish 
continued from page 16 

guy to defend. I've never had to be on defense where we had such a skilled back at tlw quar­terback position. llis judge­ments were good. He ran the ball, and that's where he is dangerous. He threw the ball on occasion pretty well. lie was really the big difference." 
Perles was true to his word, as he said prior to the game that he would not kick to kick­off return specialist Haghib Ismail. 
"I wasn't worried about him," Perles said. "I could kick away from him. I can't do anything about the quarterback. lie's got the ball in his hand on every down. lie's a great one." 
Apparently Hice was not as impressed as Perles. 
"It will go down as a win," Hice said. "but in my book it was only so-so. We made too 
many mistakes and we have to 
learn from them in order to get better." Hice finished the day with 90 yards passing on 8-of-15 com­
pletions,  with  two  intercep­ 
tions.  lie  ran  for  a  net of 78  
yards  on  14 carries.  Watters  

led the Irish with 89 yards rushing on 16 carries. 
On the defensive side, Ned Bolcar and Chris Zorich had 10 and nine tackles, respectively. The Irish sacked Enos four times, two by Devon McDonald. The Spartan running game net­ted only 75 yards, as tailback BlaRe Ezor left with an articu­lar sternum in the first quarter. 
"I think our football players hung in there, and we beat a very good football team," Holtz said. 'Tm pleasnd with the way we played the run, particularly in the second half. Our football team did the things we had to do to win. 
"We played well on occasion, but we certainly didn't do it the entire game." 
"We have to play the 60­minute game," Zorich said. "We played strong for about thirty minutes, but that isn't going to be good enough against the teams we faee. Even with one minut11 left I was still shaking, because you never know what can happen." 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 LaFortune. 
Student Pugwash, NOTRE DAME PRESENTS: FIRST ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26-7:00 P.M. GALVIN AUDITORIUM AND "WHAT EVER HAPPENED TO ... NUCLEAR WINTER" A LECTURE BY PAUL KENNY, PhD PROFESSOR OF PHYSICS THURSDAY,SEPTEMBER28 
7:00 P_M. GALVIN AUDITORIUM with special assistance from the Reilly Center for Science, Technology, and Values 
SATURDAY December 16~ 
THEGIFfS 
~OFTIIE 
Bu.O~~.J!!ll 
FRIDAY February23 

Tickets also a'Jclilable at Tracks Tickets on sale at the Saint (South Bend). Nightwinds (Niles). 
----t!J--­
Mary's Box Office, located in Super Sounds Record Connection. O'Laug)llin Auditorium, Saint Mary's Col~g~ World Records (Elkhart) 
Mon-m 9 a.m.-4 p.m. Visa/MasterCard orders by phone at
NOTRE DAME I NOlANA 
219!284-4626 

COLLEGE OF ARTS & LETTERS 
LONDON PROGRAM 
INFORMATION MEETING: Tuesday, September 26, 1989 Library Auditorium 6:30p.m. 
ALL SOPHOMORES WELCOME! 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
Synchronized Swim Club will practice from 4:30 to 6:30 
p.m. Monday and Wednesday at Rockne Pool. Everyone is 
welcome. 
Observer Sports Department will hold a mandatory meeting for all new and current writers at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday, Sept. 27. Call Theresa at 239-5303 for more information. 
Irish Insanity will meet tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Montgomery Theatre at Lafortune to discuss the Trojan horse and the USC game. All members should attend. New members arc welcome. ­
Chris Zorich and Tim Ryan will join Jamey Rappis, Kevin McCormick and Vic Lombardi on WVFI-AM 640 Sportstalk from 8 to 9 p.m. tonight. Calls are welcome at 239-6400. 
Sports Briefs arc accepted in writing at the Observer of­fice from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 LaFortune. 
LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOl STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. . , ., ' \
1

•· I . · ' ~ 
J );-.
/ ·-. \ ~ · 1 d/ 'i , · ""-· '-'~ _,· , '-~~-~~ ~,)2 -= -~'~ 
Associated Press 
Jim Kelly's fifth touchdown pass gave Buffalo a 47-41 over­time victory over Houston on Sunday in a game of big plays that saw Oilers kicker Tony Zendejas go from hero to vil­lain in less than 10 minutes. 
Kelly already had thrown touchdown passes of 6, 63, 78 and 26 yards before his 28­yarder to Andre Reed with 6:18 left in overtime ended this ex­hausting exercise in give-and­take. Reed also caught the 78­yarder. 
"The Buffalo Bills have ar­rived," Kelly said. "When you can score that many points when you have to, you've really done your job." 
Zendejas kicked a 52-yarder, his longest of the season, with three seconds to play, forcing the overtime. Houston won the toss and Warren Moon, sacked three times in the game, drove the Oilers to the Buffalo 25. 
49ers 38, Eagles 28 
Joe Montana, sacked eight times in the first 3 1/2 quarters, threw four touchdown passes in the final quarter as the 49ers 
Kelly passes Buffalo past Oilers 
the last eight minutes to beat Philadelphia. 
Montana completed 25 of 34 passes for 428 yards, including 237 in the second half, keeping San Francisco unbeaten. 
Broncos 31, Raiders 21 

John Elway threw two touch­down passes to Mark Jackson and scrambled 29 yards for another score, helping build a 28-0 halftime lead that Denver made stand up over the Raiders. 
The Broncos (3-0) converted three fumbles by Raiders quar­terback Jay Schroeder into touchdowns and also inter­cepted him three times. But the Broncos Jet the Raiders (1-2) back in contention with an in­terception and a fumble, both converted into touchdowns. 
Colts 13, Falcons 9 

Dean Biasucci kicked two field goals, and Jack Trudeau ran for one touchdown as a second-string backfield rallied the ailing Indianapolis Colts over Atlanta. 
With Atlanta leading 9-0 late in the third quarter and Indianapolis quarterback Chris Dickerson out with injuries, Trudeau and backup tailback Albert Bentley led the comeback as the Colts won their first game. 
Bears 47, Lions 27 
The Bears remained un­
beaten, Jed by a career-high 
302 passing yards to Mike 
Tomczak in their rout of win­
less Detroit. Tomczak, who had 
completed only 40 percent of 
his passes this season, com­
pleted 17 of 25 against the 
Lions. 
Tomczak is 19-3 as a starter 
for the Bears, 18-3 in regular­
season games. 
Bucs 20, Saints 10 
Vinny Testaverde passed for 227 yards, and Tampa Bay in­tercepted New Orleans' banged­up quarterbacks twice. Testaverde threw an 11-yard TO pass to Ron Hall in the sec­ond period, and Lars Tate scored on a 5-yard run that broke a 10-10 tie midway through the third quarter. 
Donald Igwebuike also kicked field goals of 34 and 37 yards for the Bucs (2-1). The Saints (1-2) hadn't lost to Tampa Bay since 1982 and Jed 7-0 after 

~----~~~--~~~------""";;;'..~"~·..~··~·"~"~'..;"";"'~'"'~"~"HO~·~··;';;~.;o~v;er~c;a;m~e;.;a~n~1~1~-;po~i;n~t~d~e;fi;c~~-t~i~n~C;h;a;n;d;le;r~a;n;d~ru~n;n~i~ng~b;a~ck;_;;E~ri~c. their first possession. ' 
Irish capture

We're l.ookiw For A Few 
More Characters. 

The advertising agency that's home to some of the most memorable characters in the business is looking for a few more to round out the group. 
Come to the Leo Burnett presentation on career op­portunities in client service and see where you fit in. Presentations will be held at the University Club. For undergraduates, Monday, September 25th at Sp.m. For MBA's, Tuesday the 26th at 7p.m. Either one's sure to be a real character builder. 
LEO BURNETT COMPANY, INC. 

--~ ­
-

Monday, September 25, 19891 
page 14 The Observer 

AMERICAN LEAGUE East Division

Chicago now four games from title 
Giants 10, Astros 2 

SAN FRANCISCO -Kevin Mitchell hit his 47th homer, drove in his 125th run and scored his 1OOth run as San Francisco eliminated Houston from the NL West race. 
The Giants lead San Diego by five games with six games re­maining. Any combination of San Francisco victories and Padres losses totaling two would give the Giants the title. 
Padres 1, Dodgers 0 

LOS ANGELES Orel Hershiser, 14-15, lost his sev­enth straight decision as San Diego kept alive. Hershiser al­lowed eight hits in seven innings and Tony Gwynn's sacrifice fly; The Dodgers have scored only 
three runs  in  his  last  50  
innings.  
Andy  Benes,  6-2,  won  his  

sixth straight, allowing four hits in 7 2-3 innings and strik­ing out seven. Mark Davis fin­ished for his 42nd save in 46 opportunities. 
Athletics 9, Twins 3 

MINNEAPOLIS The Oakland Athletics reduced the magic number to two for win­ning their second straight American League West title, routing Minnesota 9-3 Sunday as Mark McGwire hit two home runs and Storm Davis won his 19th game. 
Oakland won for the sixth time in seven tries and leads California and Kansas City by 5 1/2 games with one week re­maining. The Athletics play their final seven games at home. 
Brewers 8, Blue Jays 3 
MILWAUKEE-Joey Meyer's three-run double broke a sixth­inning tie and the Milwaukee Brewers beat the Toronto Blue Jays to keep their slim playoff hopes alive in the American League East. 
Toronto stayed one game ahead of second-place Baltimore, which lost 2-0 to New York. The Blue Jays and Orioles each have six games left, including three next week­end in Toronto. 
The third-place Brewers won twice in the three-game series and pulled to within 5 1/2 games of Toronto. 
Yankees 2, Orioles 0 

BALTIMORE -Chuck Cary pitched seven strong innings and the New York Yankees again hurt Baltimore's hopes in the American League East. 
Baltimore dropped two of three to the Yankees, but re­mained one game behind Toronto, which lost 8-3 to Toronto. The Orioles and Blue Jays each have six games left, including three in Toronto to close the season. 
Cary, 4-4, gave up two hits and struck out 10 in seven-plus innings. 

w  I.  Pet  GB  1.10  
Toronto  85  71  .545  5-5  
Baltimore  84  72  .538  5--5  
Milwaukee  79  76  .510  5 1/2  z-6-4  
Boston  78  77  .503  6 1/2  8-2  
New York  71  84  .458  13 1/2  4-6  
Cleveland  71  85  .455  14  4-6  
Detroit  57  99  .365  28  z-2-8  
West Division  
w  I.  '""t  GB  1.10  
Oakland  94  61  .606  6-4  
California  89  67  .571  5 1/2  z-5-5  
Kansas City  89  67  .571  5 1/2  4-6  
Texas  80  75  .516  14  (r4  
Minnesota  77  79  .494  17 1/2  z-3-7  
Seattle  69  87  .442  25 1/2  4-b  
Chicago  66  89  .426  28  z-5-5  
NATIONAL LEAGUE  

East Division 
Chicago St. Louis New York Montreal Pittsburgh Philadelphia West Division 
San Frandsen San Diego llouston Los Angeles Cincinnati Atlanta 

w  I.  l'<:t  GB  1.10  
89  67  .571  z-6-4  
85  71  .545  4  z-8-2  
82  73  .529  6112  z-5-5  
80  76  .513  9  4-6  
71  84  .458  17 1/2  5-5  
62  94  .397  27  2·8  
w  I.  l'<:t  GB  1.10  
91  65  .583  z-7-3  
86  70  .551  5  7·3  
83  73  .532  8  z-6-4  
73  83  .4b8  18  4-b  
72  84  .4b2  19  2-8  
61  95  .391  30  z-4·b  


Associated Press 
Don Zimmer isn't counting on anything. 
"We have to keep winning and not worry about what the Cardinals do," the Cubs man­ager said. "This thing isn't over yet. You have to realize how fast things can change in this game. We could have lost all three to the Pirates. Then where would we be?" 
Dwight Smith drove in two runs and Ryne Sandberg had two hits as the Cubs beat Pittsburgh 4-2 Sunday for their fourth straight victory. Chicago leads St. Louis by four games with six remaining and its magic number is three for its second division title in six sea­sons. 
Steve Wilson, 6-4, won his third decision against Pittsburgh this year, allowing three hits in five innings. Jeff Pico got two outs for his first save this season and the second of his career. 
''I'm just happy I could con­tribute," said Pico, who is not on the playoff roster because he was sent down to Iowa and brought back after Sept. 1. 
Cardinals 2, Phillies 1 

ST. LOUIS Chuck McElroy's bases-loaded walk to Tony Pena forced in the go­ahead run in the eighth inning. St. Louis remained four games behind Chicago. 
With the score tied 1-1, Terry 

is looking for interested and enthusiastic people to fill the following positions: 
Accent Page Designers 
• 
Excellent portfolio material 

• 
First hand experience with the workings of a newspaper. 

• 
Paid position Applicants should either be art, architecture, or design majors or have experience with newspa­per, magazine, or yearbook page design. Experience on Macintosh also preferred. 


For further information contact Alison Cocks at The Observer, 239-7471. 
Pendleton singled with two outs in the eighth off Jeff Parrett, 12-6. Parrett walked Jose Oquendo and Milt Thompson and McElroy walked Pena on a 3-2 pitch. 
Expos 6, Mets 5 

NEW YORK Dave Martinez's two-run, two-out single off Julio Machado, 0-1, capped a five-run ninth-inning rally and pushed the Mets to the brink of elimination. 
New York trails first-place Chicago by 6 1/2 games with seven games remaining. The Mets would have to win every game and the Cubs would have to lose every game in order for New York to tie. 

is now accepting applications for 
Day Editors 
For further information, please contact Janet Herold at 239-5303 or 283-4164. 
PURDUE LOTTERY TICKETS SIGN-UPS 
Monday, Sept. 25 11 :00am-4:00pm ONLY Dooley Room, LaFortune Center sign-ups for N.D. Grad and Undergrad. 2 I.D.'s per person: one must be self! Winning lottery numbers will be listed in The Observer TUESDAY, SEPT. 26 
Attention all St. Mary's Seniors:
• 
@~@01)::(!!]~ {1@[? @@[ji)~@[f ~~[?&100@ &)[(@ LJQ!]@~~ a~~D truOll@J W@@JUlJ@~~ a~WD 
• 
~ IXJ&l@@&l[? [Q)@@[k iJa®ouu ®&lc0ili1c ~@ ~c0ili1c ®[? ~ ~Uu® @J~uu~uu@ Gu&lDD @JQ[]rnjuu@ 0Q[]uu©Gu ~ @J~uu[ii)@[[ 
•
: Pictures will be taken October 2-13 : Sign up now!! •
----------------------------~~--~------------------------------------~ 


Come check out Notre Dame's Campus Bands 
euery Friday on the Fieldhouse Mall 
'I
5:30-7:30 
I i 
TIBIJE 
• 


~----------~-----~--~--------..........------~­
Monday, September 25, 1989 The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS EVENTS 
Monday, September 25 
5:00 p.m. Alumni Senior Club. Presentation and Reception for Chemical Engineering and Mat. Science and Engineering students interested in discovering career opportunities with Caterpillar, Inc. Sponsored by Career and Placement Ser­vices. 
6:00 p.m. Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn. Presentation and reception for all Business seniors interested in discovering career opportunities with J.P. Morgan. Sponsored by Career Placement Services. 
7:00 p.m. Alumni Room, Morris Inn. Presentation and re­ception for all students interested in discovering career op­portunities with Salomon Brothers. Sponsored by Career Placement Services. 
8:00 p.m. Upper Lounge, University Club. Presentation and reception for all seniors interested in discovering career op­portunities with Leo Burnett (Client Services). Sponsored by Career Placement Services. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Chicken Fried Steak Turkey Turnover w/ Sauce Veal Grinder 

COMICS 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BIL_L WAI TERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
C 1983 ChroniCle FAturn 
OIStnOut«t by UniV«NN Press Syndicate 
'{OV St:EN. 
SOOES? I n\OOG \-\T l 1-lf>.P -rnEM OJT RIG~T 
~E.R't. 

BUZZ MC FLATTOP MICHAEL F. MULDOON 
~~ 
e 
-2S 

The rare and timid prairie people 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Asner and 48 Alters, as a bill Begley 50 Consumed
1 Stripling 25 Personnel 51 Sigma preceder 
6 Judicious director's 52 Home of some10 Follower of activity Bulldogsgarage or white 29 Withered 59 Blackthorn14 Partner of 31 Expressions of so Racedkicking delight or regret 61 Furze15 Bose 34 Soon 63 Kelt of the 16 Washington's 35 Concern of a comicsbills 

CPA 
64 Watched 
17 Baffling 37 Slang 65 Tanks, etc.

question 39 Home of some 66 Balsa, e.g.

18 "Damn Bulldogs 67 Some votes 

Yankees" role 42 Previous 68 Tide types
19 Optical­43 Okla. city 

instrument part 44 Jetty
20 Home of some DOWN Bulldogs 45 J F.K, once 1 Pine secretion
23 Linkletter 46 Medicinal plant 
2 Drudge or trudge 3 Get up

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
4 Burl of songdom 5 Kind of 

shepherd 6 Separate 7 Very long time 26 Habituate 36 Singer Laine 52 Saxophone type 
8 Strong w1nd 

27 Violinist's 38 Mature 53 Oz dog 9 Pencil part purchase 
40 Emulate 54 Oriental sauce 10 Flies alone 
28 "-each life Demosthenes 55 Jane or Zane
11 Once again some rain. 

41 A neighbor of 56 Author Vidal 12 Musical Horne 29 Tea cake British Columbia 57 Lemmon's girl in13 Snaky letter 30 Small, 47 Meager a 1963 film 
21 Church ornamental case 

49 Henry or J. P 58 Wetinstrument 31 Once more 
50inthelead 59 Baste 32 Sharpened 
51 Clarinet and 62 Vocalized instruments 33 Stripes' partners oboe pauses 


• 



Sports
Monday, September 25, 1989 page 16 
Notre Dame escapes with victory over MSU 
Irish remain unbeaten despite four turno.vers 
By THERESA KELLY 
Sports Editor 
The top-ranked Notre Dame football team won Saturday's gamn against Michigan State. 
Tlw unfamiliar, mistake­prone. pressured Irish made thn game close, as it took a fourth-quarwr drive to settle the contest at 21-13. 
"I think our guys will grow from this week," Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz said. "They faced adversity when things werpn't going well. 
"We played badly and kind of got frustrawd and tried to do things that aren't built into the system. There were a lot of mistakes made during the course of the football game. We have an awful lot for work to do, we're just going to have to go forward." 
Wait a minutn, who won this game? 
Give some credit to the Spar­tans, though. Playing without tlwir leading ground-gainer. they turned to a passing attack to put a scare into the Notre Dame team that was an 18­point favorite. 
The Irish started strong, bar­relling in on the Spartan de­fense with a six-minute, 72­yard scoring drive on their first possession. At third and one on the Michigan State two, Rice took a hit but pitched to lUcky Watters, who had nothing but open field to the end zone on the left side of the line. A Craig Ilentrich point after gave the Irish a 7-0 lead. 
The defenses dominated until another Irish drive midway through the second quarter, capped off by another Watters score on what was almost a broken play. 
On the Irish 47, Rice dropped the snap from center, but re­covered, then tripped as he pitched left to Watters. Watters got a key block from Mike Brennan, then reversed his field, took advantage of a block by Anthony Johnson and sprinted for a 73-yard touch­down run. The PAT gave the Irish a 14-0 lead with nine min­utes left in the half. 
"Both of my touchdowns 

.. 
ND goes 1-0-1 in weekend soccer action 
By CHARLES POLLARD 
Sports Writer 
EVfm though the Notre Dame soccer team did not win both wePkend gamns, it put forth two solid efforts. In so doing, tlw Irish displayed great char­acter and composure in some testing circumstances. 
The Irish beat the hurricane­like weather Friday night, not to mention their intended op­ponnnt, the Michigan State Spartans, by a 4-1 score. On Sunday afternoon. Notre Dame tied Marquettn 2-2 with a goal in tlw waning minutes of the sm~ond and final overtime pe­riod. 
In Friday's game, the

• 
Spartans won the coin toss and chose to have the wind behind their backs for the first half. Apparently they thought they could get an early lead and s~ou!.d be credit.ed ..~o Tony H1ce, Watters said. fhe de­fense tried to shut him down and when they did he was able to get me the ball. After that I got some blocks down field and was able to move the ball very well." 

The rest of the half was marked by inconsistent play on both sides, especially Notre Dame's, as two turnovers, a Rodney Culver fumble and Mike laquaniello's interception of a Hice pass, led to Spartan field goals by John Langeloh, the second as time ran out to make the halftime score 14-6. 
The Spartans carried the momentum into the second half, stopping the Irish on four plays and getting to first and goal on the seven before the Irish defense came through, stopping the offense on three plays before Todd Lyght inter­cepted a Dan Enos pass in the end zone to protect the Irish lead. 
Hice returned the favor, how­ever, three plays later as he made an ill-advised pass under pressure and had it intercepted by Carlos Jenkins. This time, the Irish defense couldn't hold, as Enos had all day to hit James Bradley for a 30-yard touchdown pass. The PAT got the Spartans to within one, 14­13. 
The teams traded possessions through the third quarter and into the fourth without scoring, until Hice engineered the best Irish drive yet, an all-run, 62­yard sequence that gave the Irish breathing room, 21-13. 
The Spartan defense was hard-hitting, but the Irish used big ground gains to get to the Michigan State one, from which Johnson hurdled over the mid­dle and scored on a second ef­fort. llentrich's PAT ended the scoring, as the Irish stalled the Spartans next drive and ran down the clock. 
Michigan State head coach George Perles credited Rice for the win that raised Notre Dame's season mark to 3-0 and saw the Spartans fall to 1-1. 
"The credit goes to Rice," Perles said. "lie's one heck of a 
see IRISH/ page 12 

hang on for the victory. Only half of this equation evolved. 
At 9:17 of the first half, the Spartan's Carl Hopfinger scored on a rined shot from about twenty five yards out. The shot went in off of the far post to Irish goalkeeper Danny Lyons' right. The Spartans had their lead, but it would not even last the remainder of the first half. 
Despite the strong head wind, the Irish scored the next two goals. At 21:28, Sophomore Bobby Allong knocked in his own rebound during a wild goal mouth scramble. Dave Augustyn had entered the ball in play with a throw-in deep in the Spartan's zone . 
Then, at 35:20 of the first half, Freshman Jeff Rhodes volleyed a Kevin Pendergast corner kick into the near upper corner to give the Irish a 2-1 lead. That goal broke the Spartan's back. They could not hold on to a lead even with the wind in their favor. With their coin toss strategy foiled, the Spartans had little hope of 
winning in the second half. 
In that half, the Irish contin­ued their confident, aggressive play. Ten minutes into the half, sophomore Mitch Kern made it 3-1 on a pretty shot to the up­per corner from about 18 yards out. The goal was unassisted. At 77:29, Kevin Pendergast capped the scoring with a breakaway goal on a long pass from Bobby Allong. 
Beautiful weather draped Krause Stadium for Sunday's MCC match with Marquette. The Irish still had to overcome adversity in the form of a 2-1 Marquette lead gained in the first of the two 15 minute overtime periods. 

McDonald lives up to his billing 
By MOLLY MAHONEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
What do Dean Brown. l>en~k Brown, Hodney Culver. Grng Davis, Haghib Ismail, Jim Snxton, Hod Smith. Hieky WattPrs and Hod West all have in common? 
All wnn) asked to pick tlw Notre Dame football player who would surprise people in 1989 and chose the samn person-Devon McDonald. 
Beforn the season started, .the 6-3, 228­pound sophomore didn't nxpect to make a considerable impact on the def1~nsive squad this soon. but his teammatns prophesied greatnP.ss and he hasn't let them down. 
McDonald recorded thren unassisted and one assisted tackle against Michigan State Saturday and nattmwd Spartan quarterback Dan Enos twice for a total 14-yard loss. 
"I got my first start last w1~nk against Michigan, so I nxpnrted to start this week against Michigan State," McDonald said. "But before the season starlPd, I would've never expected to play to tlw extnnt I am now." 
The Paterson, N.J .. native saw no action last year, but came into his own as a rush end on thn defensive linn this spring. "I fen! good about my play," McDonald 
Observer I said. "But there is always room for improve-
Tony Rice tries to shed a tackler during Notre Dame's 21-13 win over the Spartans Saturday. 
The first half yieldnd no scoring from either team. However. Marquette dominatnd play and had numerous scoring 
chances. They outshot tho Irish'-------------· 11-2. A different Irish squad 
came out for the second half. .--V-.----.--------, 
Increased offnnsive pressure lctOriOUS led to Mitch Kern's second goal of the weekend. Left unmarked Irish golfers win 
Kern headed the ball in by the ') near post. The goal came off o tOUrney eaSJ Y, Jeff Rhodes' corner kiek at the page 13 
51:47 mark. 

The two teams went back and'------------------' forth exchanging scoringr----------------, 
chances when at 65:13, Marquette's Scott Steinbauer got behind the Irish defense and beat Danny Lyons to the ball. Steinbauer slid it into the unoccupied goal to tie the game at 1-1. 
In the last 20 minutes of reg-
see SOCCER/ page 11 
see DEVON I page 12 
Holy Cow! Cubs close in on East crown, page 12 
No decision 
U.S., Europe settle nothing, page 11 









