
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1989
VOL. XXIII NO. 25 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Report stresses need for greater faculty input at ND 

By GREG LUCAS 
Assistant News Editor 
"Significant expansion of the collec­tive faculty role in decision making at Notre Dame is both critical and neces­sary, if Notre Dame is to become the major university it proposes to be," is the charge made by the Faculty Senate Ad-hoc Committee on University Governance in a preliminary report sent to all faculty members. 
The preliminary report does not pur­port to represent conclusions or major­ity opinion among the faculty, but aims to "generate discussion, deliberation, and participation in both the Commmittee's and the Senate's subse­quent activities." 
According to Mohammed Gad-el-Hak, chair of the Ad-hoc Committee and pro­fessor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. the report is prirparily de­signed to rally attention for a compre­hensive faculty survey which will at­tempt to determine the sentiments of the faculty as a whole regarding both it's perceived and ideal role in University governance. 
Gad-el-llak said that the survey will be sent out in a matter of weeks. 
"Faculty involvement in too University does entail institutionalization of structures needed to insure adequate, comprehensive, representative, and genuine faculty participation in admin­istrative deliberations and decisions which affect the faculty's professional interests and the University's funda­mental academic mission," according to the report. 
"The faculty should have a definite role and the administration should con­sult with the faculty in a predictable way," said Gad-el-Hak, adding that the faculty is not "trying to take the authority to make decisions away from anybody." 
"The result so far (of interaction with the administration) has been denial of the presence of a problem. If you don't admit there is a problem, you don't seek a solution," Gad-el-Hak said. 
"I think the faculty plays a very significant role," said Timothy O'Meara, University provost and professor of mathematics, in response to the committee's report. "I think that all of the layers (in the administrative decision-making hierarchy) work pretty harmoniously together," he said. 
O'Meara said that this does not mean that problems do not exist or that mod­ifications are not called for, but rather that the "mechanisms (for faculty in­put) are in place." 
O'Meara agreed with the report's claim that the nature of Notre Dame's faculty has changed in the past several decades and said that it may "very well be appropriate to reconsider the way we (the University) do business." 
The report, which refers at one point to the Faculty Senate as a "neutered debating club," says that a representa­tion problem exists in two dimensions. 
First, the faculty is inadequately represented in the determination of its own corporate and economic interests. The report cites the administration's recent restructuring of faculty health benefits as a telling symptom of the dis­ease. 
According to the report, "A senate survey concerning the question (of health benefits) was ignored by the 
Democrats and Republicans pleased about summit plans 
Associated Press 
both Republicans, said the Democratic Gov. Mario Cuomo. "education establishment" Florida Gov. Bob Martinez CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. -might fight to keep the status said the summit marked a Democratic and Republican quo and resist many of the radical change in how 
governors alike hailed plans changes discussed at the two­mapped out Thursday at the day summit between President education summit to cut federal Bush and the nation's red tape and rejuvenate governors. America's schools, but a few Bush's address Thursday, in grumbled that the gathering which he promised to ask largely ducked the issue of Congress to "loosen the grip of federal money. federal restrictions," was 
Several. including California praised as "one of the best Gov. George Deukmejian and speeches I've ever heard him New Jersey Gov. Thomas Kean, deliver" by New York 
'Last Temptation of Christ' at Snite amid controversy 

By SARA MARLEY 
News Editor 
Film sponsors expect no problems at the showings of "The Last Temptation of Christ" in the Snite Museum of Art tonight and Saturday despite the controversy sur­rounding the film. 
"I've been told by the head of security at the Snite that there will be increased pre­cautions," said Theodore Mandell, assistant profes­sional specialist in the de­partment of communica­tions and theater. 
Communications and the­ater is sponsoring the film in conjunction with courses in 
the department, Mandell said. 
According to Phil Johnson, assistant director of Notre Dame Security, a monitor is always on duty during films at the Snite because Security is responsible for the build­ing and its contents. 
"If problems occur, we will staff accordingly," Johnson said. 
"We are not expecting any­thing to go wrong, but we are expecting a large crowd," said Mandell. 
With the possibility of demonstrators outside the Snite, officials want to avoid confrontation between them 
see FILM I page 6 

educational problems are viewed. 
"It's a change from measuring education by 1ow much we spend to what we're getting for how much we've invested," said Martinez, a Republican. 
"Everyone felt that the president's message was well­crafted and well-delivered and it set the right tone," said Deukmejian. 
He predicted there would be no difficulty in drafting concrete national education goals by the February meeting of the National Governors' Association. 
"The difficulty," he said, "is that many people in the education community resist change. They like the status quo. The difficulty is going to be that there is going to have to be some restructuring, some accountability, some redirecting of funds, to meet the primary objectives." 
Even with cooperation from educators, he predicted it would take 10 years to achieve the.reform aims outlined at the summit. 
"They were saying, 'Look, Mr. President, if this is so important, if education is such a national policy, at least don't reduce what the federal 
see SUMMIT I page 4 

Marcos dies of cardiac arrest in Honolulu 
Associated Press 
HONOLULU -Ferdinand Marcos succumbed to cardiac arrest Thursday·, but even in death he remained an unwanted exile, his remains barred from 
U.S. air lanes, his political le­gacy still stirring passions in his Philippine homeland. 
Marcos, who ruled the Philip­pines for more than 20 years before being ousted in February 1986, died at 12:40 a.m. Thursday at St. Francis Medical Center. He was 72. 
Doctors said kidney and lung failure and a widespread infec­tion contributed to the cardiac arrest listed as the cause of death. 
The canny, combative politi­cian, who governed at times as a democrat, at times as a dicta­tor, died without facing trial on 

Ferdinand Marcos AP Photo 
U.S. criminal charges he plun­dered the Philippine treasury. 
While Marcos spent nearly 10 months in the hospital, his family begged Philippine Presi­dent Corazon Aquino to let him come home to die, but she re­fused. 
Aquino took office as a result of the popular revolt that drove Marcos into exile, and her gov­ernment has survived six armed attempts to overthrow it. She said she refused again after his death to allow his burial in the Philippines for the sake of "the tranquillity of the state and the order of society." 
Philippine opposition leaders urged her to reconsider. 
"It is just so wrong. It is his birthright. He is a Filipino, the greatest Filipi!fo." said Joe Lazo, president 4lf the Honolulu group Friends of Marcos. 
Later Thursday, the Federal Aviation Administration in Washington prohibited any air­craft from flying Marcos' re­mains out of the United States for the Philippines, saying it 
see MARCOS I page 6 


WORLD BRIEFS 
The conservative chief of the Ukrainian Communist Party lost his position as boss of the Soviet Union's strongest political machine Thursday to a progressive protege of President Mikhail Gorbachev. Gorbachev sharply criticized the dictatorial style of the ousted official, Vladimir Shcherbitsky, who ran the Ukraine and its 50 million people with an iron hand for 17 years.The new Ukrainian party boss is Vladimir Ivashko, who was Shcherbitsky's second-in-command. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
The Senate, caught up in an agonizing debate about the future of President Bush's Star Wars program, reversed field Thursday and restored $600 million to the missile-defense shield. Only two days earlier, the Senate had overwhelmingly agreed to a $900 million reduction in Bush's request for the space-based de­fense initiative in the fiscal year beginning Sunday. 
Heeding President Bush's warning that the nation is imperiled when children "emerge into adulthood ignorant and un­skilled," the nation's governors joined him Thursday in framing national goals for improving America's public schools.The objec­tives, product of a two-day education summit in Charlottesville, Va., range from reversing a dropout rate that sends nearly one youth in three into the job market without a diploma to making educators more accountable for their pupils' classroom perfor­mance. 
Thomas De Barge, a former member of the pop music group Switch and part of the singing DeBarge family, has been jailed on cocaine charges. DeBarge was arraigned Wednesday in Grand Rapids and Wyoming district courts in Michigan on sepa­rate charges of delivery of cocaine and delivery of imitation co­caine stemming from two alleged sales to undercover police in 1988. 
The Charleston airport in South Carolina opened Thursday for the first time since Hurricane Hugo hit as Congress approved its largest disaster-relief measure ever and President Bush an­nounced he would tour storm-damaged areas.Hundreds of resi­dents queued up to apply for federal disaster relief at five Federal Emergency Management Agency centers, a week after the storm smashed into South Carolina with 135 mph winds.Congress Thursday unanimously approved $1.1 billion in emergency aid for victims of Hugo. 
Rolling Stones guitarist Keith Richards said he kicked his heroin addiction because his children were exposed to repeated police raids. "My kids were growing up getting used to letting in hoards of policemen. There was a knock at the door: Is it room service or is it the cops?" he told British Broadcasting Corp. radio in a New York interview to be broadcast here next month. Richards, 45, known as "the wildest Rolling Stone," also admitted he feared being sent to prison. 
They no longer wear white uniforms with roses in their lapels, but every litter bit still counts to Baltimore's pushcart street sweepers, who pick up where mechanical street sweepers leave off. So popular are the 110 men and women who sweep, shovel and spiff up Baltimore's sidewalks and gutters that when one of them takes a vacation or sick leave, it's not unusual for residents to call the city and ask where they are. 
A promising new anti-AIDS drug still in the early stages of testing will be made widely available while safety and effective­ness trials continue, the government announced Thursday.The plan for expanded distribution of dideoxyinosine, or ddl, marks the first time an unapproved, experimental AIDS drug will become so widely available so early in testing. 
WEATHER 
-'o''~ 
'•' 

Clear and cool tonight. Lows from 40 to 45. Mostly sunny Saturday. Highs from 65 to 70. 
ALMANAC 
On September 29: e In 1901: Italian physicist Enrico Fermi was born. Fermi was best known as the central figure in the Manhattan Project which built the first atomic bomb. 
e In 1912: Cowpoke and en­tertainer Gene Autry was born. He was the first singing cowboy to make it big in motion pic­
tures. 
e In 1982: Cyanide-laced Tylenol capsules killed seven people in Chicago. 
l~lo•·natron comprled from Observer w~res and Observer stall reports 
Sunny 

Mostly sunny today. Highs from 65 to 70. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Cloalnga for Thur., Sept. 28, 1989 

Precious Metals Gold {} $0.70 to $368.1 0 I oz. Silver .0 1.50¢ to $5.265 I oz. 

Source: Prudential Bache Securities 

Campus safety demands a realistic attitude 
I went down in the elevator to the basement of LaFortune. It was about 2:15 a.m. There wasn't another soul in sight. I was working late be­cause it was my night as news editor, and I was exhausted. I could think of nothing else but slipping into my warm, safe bed. 
I stepped out of the elevator and walked down the dark corridor, past the closed computer lab (it had not begun to operate 24 hours), up the steps and through the double doors. 
Then it happened ... upon opening the second of the double doors, I heard an ear-splitting scream, seemingly right next to me. My immedi­ate instinct was to jump back into the building and pull the door tightly closed. I was terrified. 
I immediately went to call Security to have someone escort me home, but I could not find a phone. The doors leading to the 'God Quad' exit were locked, as were those to the stairs. I tried to go back up to The Observer office, but at that time of night, the elevators only travel one way: down. 
I know I should never have thought to walk home by myself so late, but I was tired, and didn't think to call Security or ask a friend to walk with me when I left the office. Instead, I was stuck in the basement of LaFortune, at least until someone else on staff went home. Not wanting to wait any longer, I peered out the door again. No one was there,so I bolted for my dorm. 
I heard the scream again. Apparently, it was nothing more than a bunch of students near the Peace Memorial. They were just yelling and screaming, having a good time. I felt like an id­iot, but I learned a lesson. 
The scream that I heard could very well have been from an encounter with 'the blue-suited jogger' or a rapist. I read letters to the editor every day about how women on campus should take precautions to protect themselves from at­tack. I read and affirmed the truth of that good advice. Unfortunately, I let it go in one ear and out the other. 
Like many women on this campus, I have al­ways clung to the idea that "it can't happen to me." Well, it almost did-and not just once. I was also on the quad the night that two cyclists started randomly accosting women. I was there when the second incident happened. I was the one who told the woman to report it to Security. If I had left Sorin two minutes earlier (and it was only 8:30 p.m.), it could have been me re­porting the incident to Security instead of her. 
But, I have a guardian angel. and of course, "It can't happen to me." My roommate came home at about 10 p.m. a few njghts ago. She was working late at NVA in 
OF INTEREST 
A holy hour is being held in preparation for the film "The Last Temptation of Christ" tonight at 7 p.m. in the Keenan-Stanford Chapel. Spon­sored by the Knights of the Immaculata and Queen of Peace Ministries. 
Sophomores: A memorial mass for classmate Steve Saunders will be held Saturday at 5 p.m. at the Grotto. Please bring blankets. In the event of rain, mass will be held in the Crypt. 
_ror:'-e_Qbse_~~r-­
-..

--=-.l-=I-1 ----A-=Y=-'-­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Fr~day except dur~ng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by stuc1ents of the Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame and Samt Mary's College. Subscnpt1ons may be pur chased lor $40 per year (5>25 per semester) by wntmg The Observer 
The Observer IS a member of The Assoc1ated Press All reproduction r~ghts are reserved 
....................H~-~~~-&i~-~~~.................11 Observer classifieds will be accepted from 
Today is Laura S.'s birthday. Call her up g 3 M F t th Qb ff' 314
ll 
and wish her a happy one. By the way am-pm -a e server 0 ICes, 
Laura,we do expect to see you dancing LaFortune 
on pool tables tomght. • 
Question: How do you reach over 
12,000 people daily? Answer: Buy Observer ad space. Call 239-6900. 

'Like many women on this campus, I have always clung to the idea that 'it can't happen to me.' 
Christine Walsh Assistant News Editor 

the Joyce ACC. She looked tired and worn. She told me that she had seen 'the jogger' near the JACC, but was able to get back inside without drawing attention to herself. She headed home when she thought the coast was clear. Fortu­nately, nothing came out of it other than a good scare. 
No, I have not been one of the many victims of this recent crime wave, but I have been lucky. We have to take precautions. No, this isn't downtown New York after dark, but there is a definite threat out there. Each one of us has to take our own precautions, but the University can help our situation as well. 
We need to get better lighting on at least the main quads, no matter what the cost. It is often difficult at night to see someone approaching until that person is an arm's length away. The basement of LaFortune should be well-lit, espe­cially now that the computer lab is open 24 hours. Earlier in the year, there were times when the basement the outside stairway were hardly lit at all. We need to institute some sort of escort service other than Notre Dame Secu­rity, so that women will not feel embarrassed to call, and won't have to feel that they must im­pose on a male friend to walk them home. Women even have been approached by as­sailants when in pairs. 
I used to feel safe walking around campus at any hour on any day. I no longer feel this way. I have not been attacked, but I feel like my pri­vacy has been violated and I am helpless. It is as if my liberty were suddenly ripped away from me, as if I weren't safe in my own backyard. 
I may have been wrong to assume my safety in the past, but we can't afford to do so anymore. We must take it upon ourselves to ensure our own safety, because it can happen to us. 
Christine Walsh is a govern­mentlphilosophy/P.P.E. major and an assistant news and assistant viewpoint editor at The Ob­server. The opinion expressed in the Inside Col­umn belongs to the author and is not necessar­ily the opinion of The Observer. 
A meeting for Dome photographers is be­ing held Sunday at 8 p.m. in the Dome office, third floor, LaFortune. 
Senior Rap-Up sign ups are going on at the Center for Social Concerns until Oct. 9. This is a great opportunity to take a break and enjoy your fellow classmates. Call Mary Ann Roemer at 239-5293 if you have any questions. 
Design Editor....................Joe Zadrozny Design Assltant ............... Cristina Ortiz Typesetters ....................... Chris Zaback ................................................... Fritz Valsainl News Editor ......................... Kelley Tuthill News Copy Editor....... Janice O'Leary Sports Copy Editor Steve Megargee VIewpoint Copy EditorJanice O'Leary VIewpoint Layout. ...... Colleen Stepan Accent Edltor.............. Robyn Simmons Accent Copy Edltor............... Liz Havel Accent Designer ...........Brian Grunert Photographer............. Lisa M. L. D'anzi Irish Extra Edltor........ Theresa Kelly Irish Extra Designers ........................................Catherine Qlnahy 
........................................ Jeanne Blasi 


AP Photo

An uplifting experience 
East Germans lift a baby buggy over the fence of West Germany's Prague embassy Thursday before climbing the barrier to seek shelter. 



Soviets to act as intermediary 
Associated Press 
Moslem guerrillas in the Philip­he urged the Soviet Union to 
pines. endorse the Israeli peace initia­
UNITED NATIONS -Soviet Shevardnadze made his com­tive. "The Soviet Union does Foreign Minister Eduard She­ment to reporters after meeting not reject that initiative, and it vardnadze on Thursday pro­with Israeli Foreign Minister sees some positive aspects in posed to act as an intermediary Moshe Arens. Both men praised the initiative. I hope we will between Israel and the PLO and the improvement in Soviet-I~­eventually get endorsement offered to hold a meeting be­raeli relations but said there from the Soviet Union." tween them on Soviet soil. were no immediate plans to re­Shevardnadze said, "I urged 
Also Thursday at the United sume full diplomatic ties, sev­Foreign Minister Arens to en­Nations, the Philippines for­ered by the Soviets during the gage in dialogue and direct mally recognized the Palestine 1967 Middle East war. contact with the PLO." He Liberation Organization as the The ministers discussed the added that in the Soviet view, state of Palestine and said it stalemated Mideast peace pro­no Middle East settlement could "respects its right to indepen­cess, Israeli Prime Minister succeed without the participa­dent statehood." Yitzhak Shamir's election plan tion of the Palestine Liberation 
The move aims to enhance for the occupied territories and Organization. Manila's prospects for joining a wide range of bilateral issues, the Non-Aligned Movement, including consular relations "I even proposed my good of­previously refused because it and direct air links between fices to organize such a meeting allows U.S. military bases on Moscow and Tel Aviv. (between Israel and the PLO on its territory, and ending any Arens, speaking first to re­the territory of the Soviet possible PLO aid to separatist porters after the meeting, said Union)," he said. 
Army officials investigate explosion that killed three 
Associated Press 
team from Fort Rucker will in­
vestigate the accident. FORT SILL, Okla. -Artillery "It could be material or it fire echoed in the distance could be human," Hennies said Thursday while Army investiga­Thursday. "If it's human, it tors inspected a crater where a could be in standards, in train­
stray round hit and exploded, ing, in leaders, in individuals or killing three soldiers and injur­any combination thereof. Our ing 23. purpose is to analyze these 
"They heard a whistle of in­findings and come up with a coming, a yellow blast and then preventive program." they were blown off their feet," Blood-spattered camouflage
Col. William Gonzales, com­fatigues, helmets, boots, jackets mander at Reynolds Army Hos­and other military wear was pital at Fort Sill, said some of strewn across about a 25-yard
the soldiers told him. "It's area at the accident site. The amazing what the power of a crater measured about one shell can do." yard across and about a foot 
Elsewhere, two soldiers were deep. killed Thursday at Fort Stew­Officials said the round from art, Ga., during firing exercises a howitzer, a type of big gun,involving 4.2-inch mortars, the overshot a target area by about 
Army said. one-half mile and fell 10 to 15 
The Fort Sill soldiers, in the feet behind the soldiers, who seventh week of an eight-week were in formation. training course at the sprawl­Hennies said investigators
ing Field Artillery Center in hadn't determined which ar­southwest Oklahoma, were tillery was involved in the acci­
lined up to leave a training site dent. Post spokesman said 105 when the artillery round hit mm, 155 mm and 8-inch how­about 5 p.m. Wednesday. itzers were being fired Wednes­
"We know it happened. Now day:we're going to find out why it Jon Long, another post happened," said Gen. Lou Hen­spokesman, said the accident nies, director of Army safety site was about four miles from for the Army Safety Center at the populated area of the post, Fort Rucker, Ala. A four-man which has 21,000 soldiers. 

Happy 21st Birthday CATHY BURKE 
Now your ID looks like you! 




Faculty 
continued from page 1 
administration. Two responsi­
ble administrators acknowl­
edged before the Senate that no 
real effort was made to incor­
porate representative faculty 
opinion in the process. And 
many faculty found the admin­
istration's sundry mailings an­
nouncing aspects of the new 
benefits program both patron­
izing and inept." 
O'Meara declined to respond 
to the claim as it was worded 
in the report, but said that 
"greater faculty input into the 
decision making process" of 
the Administration's Budget 
Priority Committee is 
implieated in the future. 
lie added that in the last 
week he had worked with rep­
resnntative from the Faculty 
Senatn on plans to place a Sen­
ate representative on the Bud­
get Committee. 
The second area of concern 
mentioned in the report re­
gards faculty input regarding 
aeadernic affairs. "If the 
administration is to make wise 
decisions regarding aeademie 
development, it seems not 
unrBasonable to expect the 
administration to eagerly 
solicit the widest and most 
mpresentative Bxpert opinion 
available," the report stated. 
O'Meara said that the faculty 
is and has been ostensibly rep­
resented on a number of 

important decision-making 
bodies. 
Specifically, O'Meara pointed 

to the 1980-82 PACE commit­
tee, which consisted of a eross­
section of faculty. administra­
tors, and students. 
The eommittee produeed ree­ommendations, such as, addi­tional classroom facilities, more social space for students, higher salaries for faculty, im­proved eomputer eapabilities, and currieulum revisions. 
Almost all of these recom­mendations have been or arc in the proeess of being realized, O'Meara said. As an example, O'Meara said that Notre Dame salaries for assistant profes­sors in 1978 ranked only 90th in the nation. 
As a result of the PACE Committee's reeommendations, these salaries were boosted until they were found to rank 17th in the nation in 1987. 
O'Meara further stated that the Aeademic Council. which is the body solely responsible for revising and amending the Fac­ulty Articles. is well represented by faculty. 
The Council eonsists of 15 ex­officio administrators, who serve by virtue of their posi­tions and 18 elected faculty members, according to O'Meara. 
The Ad-hoc Committee's re­port, charges that faculty members can only be elected into the Academic Council after they have been chosen by a committee which itself consists 
of members who are appointed 
by the Dean of the College of 
Arts & Letters. 
"Even allowing that everyone involved does his or her level 'best' to pick the 'best' people to run, faculty do wonder why Notre Dame's Academic Arti­cles do not permit faculty vot­ers to nominate and choose their own 'representatives' in a democratic, uncontrolled, and open poll." 
O'Meara responded that the codified election procedures to the Academic Council was orig­inally formulated by the Aca­demic Council itself, which was adequately represented by fac­ulty, to remedy problems at the time. The Council is still fully empowered to change the Aca­demic Articles, in light of con­cerns that have now arisen, said O'Meara. 
The Ad-hoc committee's re­port outlines four options that are available to the Faculty Se­nate regarding possible courses of aetion in this matter: 
1.'"The situation may be left substantially as it is." 
2. 
The Faculty Senate can adjourn and "quit bothering about governance." 

3. 
The Faculty Senate can unionize. 

4. 
The Faculty Senate can work with the administration "to restructure or modify exist­ing mechanisms for faculty participation in governance." 


Paul Conway, chair of the Faculty Senate and assoc. pro­fessor of finance and business economics, said the the decision to unionize would be the most extreme and the least favorable because of the connotation that unions carry with them. People most often think of a strike when they hear about unionization. "I could not even visualize this (a strike) happening, " he said. 
A unionized faculty would most likely employ other forms of collective bargaining in order to pursue its goals, Con­way said. 
The Senate's most beneficial option, according to Conway, is the one of working with the administration to legislate changes. Conway specifically mentioned giving the faculty as a whole more control in elect­ing members to administrative committees. 

,..
·-­
The Observer 
Friday, September 29, 1989 


Summit 
continued from page 1 
government is doing in funding," Deukmejian said. 
Tennessee Gov. Ned Ray McWherter, a Democrat, said governors were generally pleased at the prospect that the summit might lead to eliminating needless federal rules that made certain educational programs inflexible. 
"I believe you can trust local people to run the education system," he said. 
Ohio Gov. Richard Celeste, also a Democrat, said the jury was still out on whether Bush had earned the title "education president" and said the administration had "painted itself in a corner" by foreclosing the possibility of 

[K][ID~~w ~ ~ [J{![ffi@ltiDW 
You are very special and much loved!! 


XXX 000 

SATURDAY MONDAY 

FRIDAY 
January29 
February23

December 16~ 
AN EVENING WITH 
HE GIFTS
T
~OFTIIE 


·-~~.!!!J.! 
Tickets on sale at the Saint 

-------EB------­
Mary's Box Office, located in 

O'Laug~lin Auditorium. Saint Marx's Colleg~
Mon·Fil9 a.m.·4 p.m. 
NOTRE DAME" INOlANA 

Tickets also available at Tracks 
(South Bend), Nighlwinds (Niles),Super Sounds Record Connection. World Records (Elkhart)Visa/MasterCard orders by phone at 219/284-4626 
stepped-up federal funding for schools. 
"The president would have been better served if somebody had said, 'Look Mr. President, we can do without these three stealth bombers. and we put them in your poeket. and you come in and at an appropriate moment you identify where you think in 1990 a new federal investment can galvanize this reform agenda." 
Democratic Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas said, "I want to thank President Bush for giving us the chance for the governors after seven hard years of work on education reform, to have a 
real  national  partnership  in  
education."  
Gov.  William  O'Neill  of  

Connecticut, also a Democrat, said. "It was a first, it was important, the problem has been recognized." 
Kean of New Jersey said. ''I'm reinvigorated. This is really exciting, this idea that the president of the Unitl~d States is going to lead the way toward a restructuring of tlw schools which is vital and very difficult to do." 
But he warned that 
fundamental ehange would  b1~  
resistPd by some educators.  
"If  the  people  involved  in  

education oppose and stand in the way, it will be difficult and time consuming to gnt any of these things accomplislwd. We've got to now bring along the people in tlw system. Then~ is still a great body within the education profession who say, "It's eertainly lirH~ in my school, it's eertainly fine in my classroom.' 
"For those of us who believe that everything is not fine, that's an attitude that's got to be changed," he said. 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 

CINEMA AT THE SNITE 

'"THE LAST TEMPTATION OF CHRIST' EXERTS ENORMOUS POWER. Willem Dafoe has a gleaming intensity. What emerges most memorably is its sense of absolute conviction, never more palpable than in the final fantasy 
sequence~' 
-).,PI ~In, 
NEW YORK TIMES 
.:...~...~­
6:00 , 9:00 6:00 , 9:00 




' 
~ 0 
~
. 
_,J 
............-'i 
5Et Dttl( 

0 ~\,
D(IV[ 
SEE DICK \)(JlD 

Don't drink and drive 
Apparitions in Medjugorje­
a talk by newspaper publisher Wayne Weible 
University of Notre Dame, Hesburgh Library Auditorium Saturday, September 30 at 7:00 PM 
The reported apparitions of the Virgin Mary in the village of Medjugorje, Yugoslavia will be the topic of a la.lk by Wayne Weible, newspaper publisher from Myrtle Beach, South Carolina. A Lutheran, Weible has authored a book on his experiences with the apparitions and on the impact which the Mother of Jesus has had on his life. 
Sponsored by the Knights of the Immaculata, in conjunction with Peace Ministries. 
Bakker to take the stand today 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -Jim Bakker will take the stand to­day to defend himself against fraud and conspiracy charges, his lawyers said Thursday after presenting about 50 character witnesses on behalf of the PTL founder. 
"When it's over I'll talk," Bakker said as he got into his car at the end of Thursday's testimony. 
Bakker is expected to be the last defense witness. 
"It could have been today, we're going tomorrow," de­fense attorney George Davis said when asked by reporters if Bakker would take the stand Friday. 
A federal judge refused Thursday to allow the jury to tour the Heritage USA retreat built by the disgraced television evangelist. 
"It would be a waste of time and serve no purpose for the 18 people on the jury to go see it," 
U.S. District Court Judge Robert Potter said. 
Another Bakker lawyer, Harold Bender, contended that the jury and six alternates would benefit from seeing the Heritage park in nearby Fort Mill, S.C. It was closed this week by a bankruptcy trustee. 
The judge clashed the day be­fore with defense lawyers over the number of witnesses for Bakker. Potter said he generally allows only five character witnesses per side. Bender in­sisted his were not character witnesses, but satisfied Bakker backers important to his case. 
The defense has presented at least 72 witnesses since it be­gan its case Sept. 21. More than 50 of the witnesses testi­fied to Bakker's character. 
Jurors heard Thursday as they have on previous days from witnesses who were sat­isfied with their $1,000 "Lifetime Partnership" mem­berships that allowed them three nights a year at the hotel at Heritage USA. 
Prosecutors contend the partnerships were oversold and that Bakker used more than $3.7 million of the proceeds to fund his lavish lifestyle. 
Lola Penny testified she re­cently changed her will to leave her entire estate to the Bakkers without consulting her only child. Julie Wright, a real estate agent from Woodgreen Village, Mich., testified she and her husband bought 30 lifetime partnerships and were "very satisfied" with her $30,000 in­vestment. 
Sharon Creech, a school teacher from Rock Hill, S.C., described her stay at Heritage Grand Hotel as "the next best thing to being ... close to Je­sus." 
Bakker resigned in March 198 7 after it was revealed that ministry funds were used to buy the silence of Jessica Hahn, with whom Bakker had a sexual tryst in 1980. 
Bakker faces up to 120 years in prison and more than $5 million in fines if convicted on all 24 counts of fraud and con­spiracy. 
A group women wearing red ribbons saying "Enough is enough" and representing the International Christian Women Fellowship handed out petitions at the courthouse seeking mercy for Bakker. The petitions were addressed to the U.S. At­torney General. 

Train hits firetruck at railroad crossing, 150 injured; two firefighters killed in truck 
Associated Press 
CALVERTON, Va. -An Am­trak train smashed into a firetruck at a railroad crossing Thursday night, derailing both engines and 11 cars and injur­ing more than 150 passengers. Two firefighters in the truck were killed. 
The southbound Crescent, bound from New York to At­lanta and New Orleans, struck the truck about 7:40 p.m. near this northern Virginia town, said Amtrak spokesman John Jacobsen in Washington. It was carrying 379 passengers and a crew of 20, he said. 
Five cars of the 16-car train remained on the track, said Pat Jeffrey, another Amtrak spokesman. 
Fauquier County Sheriff's Deputy R.R. Crawford said 150 or more people on the train were injured. The injured were transported to nearby Prince 









H. KAPlAN 
Our classroom instruction, home study materials and review tapes have all been COMPLETELY UPDATED to prepare you for the NEW l.SAT. What has NOT CHANGED is our 50 years of test preparation experience, our skilled instructors, our small classes, our first rate study materials and our TEST-N-TAPE~ labs. And our 135 Centers are still open days, evenings and weekends for your convenience. 
CLASSES ARE FORMING NOW for the 1 2 -2 l.SAT • 
1717 E. South Bend Avenue 
South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272•4135 
Take Kaplan Or TakeYour Chances 
STEAKS PRIME RIB SEAFOOD 


William Hospital in Prince William County and Fauquier Hospital in Warrenton. 
Steve Givens, a spokesman for Prince William Hospital, said the hospital had received 14 injured passengers, three in serious condition and four with minor injuries. Givens said he did not know the condition of the other seven. 
One passenger, in critical condition with head injuries, was flown by helicopter to Fairfax Hospital, said spokeswoman Mary Stuart­Rizk. 
Roger Baker, Fauquier Hos­pital administrator, said 12 pa­tients were being treated in the emergency room for what ap­peared to be minor injuries. 
Asked if he expected more in­jured, he said, "I believe we will receive some." But he also said, "I understand there are a great many people who are not in­jured." 
100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA Featuring Friday nighl seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 
219-259-9925 

The fire truck was from the 
nearby town of Catlett and was responding to an emergency call when the accident occurred, said Sgt. Butler Grant of the Fauquier Sheriffs Department. He said the two people killed were on the truck. 
Don Ellison, a reporter for WTTG-TV in Washington who was about a half mile from the derailment, said he saw about two dozen buses lined up to carry uninjured passengers. 
Three "huge cranes" went by his post. he said, apparently bound to unscramble the wreck. 
The last reported derailment of an Amtrak train was April 6, when both engines and the first eight cars of an 18-car train jumped the tracks near Empo­ria, Va., 50 miles south of Richmond. 
Thirty-four passengers aboard the northbound Silver Star suffered minor injuries in that accident, which took place when the train hit a switch at its normal cruising speed of 59 mph instead of the 15 mph normally maintained when switching tracks. That accident did $1.8 million damage. 
The worst wreck in Amtrak history occurred on Jan. 4, 1987, when three linked-Conrail locomotives slid through a stop sign and into the path of a 12­car Amtrak passenger train at Chase. Md., killing 16 and injur­ing 174. 
The Conrail engineer and brakeman were later found to have been using marijuana. 
Engineer Rick Gates pleaded guilty to one state charge of manslaughter by locomotive and was sentenced to five years in prison in March 1988. He was sentenced to three years in prison in July 1988 on a federal charge of conspiring to ob­struct a federal investigation of the accident for initially lying to National Transportation Safety Board investigators. 
The brakeman, Edward Cromwell, was granted immu­nity from federal and state prosecution for his cooperation in the case. 
-~----­
---------------------~~--~ ------~ 
Marcos 
continued from page 1 
would "create a danger to the 
safety of the aircraft and per­sons involved." 
Lazo said family and friends would pay respects at Marcos' hilltop home overlooking down­town llonolulu and the Pacific Ocean. Marcos' remains, in a polished wooden casket, were taken by hearse to the mansion Thursday morning. 
The house will be open to mourners 24 hours a day until Sunday, then his body will be taken to a local mortuary for viewing through Thursday, Lazo said. 

Mrs. Man~os did not want re­portnrs and photographers tof view thn body in a group Thursday, but said journalists could come in later without
, ~ 
thnir cameras and notebooks, Lazo said. A funeral Mass is planned for

r 
next Friday, but then1 are no

r 
r definite plans for burial, Lazo r said. lie said Mrs. Marcos 
t 
would keep trying to bring her husband back to his homeland. "She knows that's what he wanted." 
Marcos' mother, who died in May 1988, has been embalmed 


Film 
continued from page 1 
and the filmgoers. 
"We will have adequate secu­rity to ensure that everyone gets to see the film," said John­son. 
According to Mandell, the de­partment has received approx­imately 100 calls in the last two or three days regarding the film. 
Mandell said the Dean of the College of Arts and Letters and the Public Relations and Infor­mation have also received calls and he believes University Pres­ident Father Edward Malloy has as well. 
"A lot of people are calling from out of town and. a lot of them are Notre Dame alumni,"
said Mandell. 
He said articles in The South Bend Tribune, The Observer and The Wanderer, a conserva­tive Catholic newspaper, have called attention to the screen­ing. 
"I am glad that people have such strong opinions about the film that they call us. One of the reasons we show the film is so people will discuss it," said Mandell. 
"We do not require students to see the films if they object to them," Mandell said. 
The department is sponsoring an open discussion of the film with several members of the Theology department on Wednesday Oct. 4 at 7 p.m. in the O'Shaughnessy Loft. 


Class 
continued from page 7 
ChrisM. 
love me or not. you have a responsibility to your unborn child. Suck rt up and be a man. Shnookums!l 
A~B. 
OUR FAVORITE BUDDY TURNED 211 
woooooooooooooooo 
HAPPY B-OAY. JACK 
LOVE. MEG & JULIE 
Cathy-
Thank you for coming down for our secret rendezvous. l"m asking for a Volkswagen for Christmas. Right now I owe you one and can't wait to slug you~ 
TEDDY 
several times and lies unburied because Marcos was not al­lowed into the Philippines for the funeral. 
Tomas "Buddy" Gomez, Philippine consul general in Honolulu and an outspoken Marcos critic, said he would not attend the memorial service and urged Mrs. Marcos not to "exploit her husband's death." 
Mar<~os' death was confirmed at about 1:15 a.m., when his son, Ferdinand Jr., emerged from the intensive care unit and said his father had been taken to "a higher place." 
"Hopefully friends and de­tractors alike will look beyond the man to see what he stood for -his vision, his compas­sion and his total love of coun­try," said the composed younger Marcos. 
"Father's not here anymore. He's gone," Marcos' widow, Imelda, told about two dozen supporters outside the hospital room, said family spokesman Roger Peyuan. Somber but dry­eyed as she left the hospital 
dressed in black, Mrs. Marcos did not talk to reporters. 
Marcos' family had told doc­tors to do everything they could to save his life, and life-support equipment was not turned off until after Marcos died, Peyuan said. 



ATTENTION ND & ST. MARY'SSTUDENTS ESTABLISH CREDIT EARLY 


AND SAVE 10% ON YOUR FIRST PURCHASE 
Come into the University Park Store on Saturday, September 30 between 3:00 and 7:00 p.m. or on Sunday, October 1 between noon and 6:00 p.m. to open your personal Ayres charge account. Our credit representatives will be located 
in  the  Men's  Varsity  
Department near the  mall  
entrance.  





NO ANNUAL FEE! 



The Observer/Lisa M. l. D' Anzi 

Chemical concentration 
Junior Paul Cipich performs titration in analytical chemistry. 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 LaFortune. 

Opportunity to experience conditions of poverty, injustice, and apathy existing 
in our cities 

During Christmas break at one of over 40 different sites 
REGISTRATION PACKETS AVAILABLE FROM 
SEPT. 21-0CT13 
· Center For Social
AT N.D.: 
Concerns · Campus Ministry: Badin Haii/Hesburgh Library · Hall Representatives 
AT S.M.C.: · Office of Justice Education I 28/159 Madaleva Hall · Campus Ministry: 150 Regina 
., 

FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL: 
SUE CUNNINGHAM 239-5293 OR TALK TO YOUR DORM REPRESENTATIVE 
DEADLIN~ OBI13...AC1 NOW!! 


SECURITY BEAT 
MON., SEPT. 18  MON., SEPT. 25  WED., SEPT. 27  
2:40 p.m.: An oft-campus student re­ 9:03a.m.: A Sarin Hall resident reported  1 :12 a.m.: Notre Dame Police received  
ported that her credit cards had been  the theft of his wallet and contents from  a report from a resident of Pasquerilla  
stolen from her wallet at the ROTC build­ outside his room.  The theft occurred at  West regarding  a  suspicious person.  
ing.  The theft occurred sometime be­ approximately 11 p.m. on 9/22.  The witness stated that she saw some­ 
tween noon and 2 p.m.  5:15p.m.: A Saint Mary's College stu­ one who fit the jogger's description jog­ 
2:55 p.m.: A Dillon Hall resident re­ dent reported that the vehicle she was  ging around St. Mary's Lake at approxi­ 
ported the theft of his locked bicycle from  driving on Angela had been struck by a  mately 11 :15 p.m. on 9/26.  
the Dillon bike rack sometime between  golf ball from the Burke golf course.  The  3:10 p.m.: A Carroll Hall resident re­ 
5/16/89 and 8/25.  His loss is estimated  golf ball broke the rear passenger win­ ported the theft of his bicycle from the  
to be $210.  dow. Replacement value is not known at  west bike rack of the Hesburgh Library.  
9:16 p.m.: Two Saint Mary's student  this time.  The theft occurred sometime between  
were approached by a suspicious M/W  6:55 p.m.: A resident of Carroll Hall re­ 11:00 a.m. and 12:15 p.m. on 9/26.  His  
outside Gate 2 of the JACC.  ported the theft of the license plates for  loss is estimated at $50.  
11:59 p.m.: An Alumni Hall resident re­ his car while it was parked in the D-6 lot  
ported the theft of his locked bicycle from the south bike racks at the Hesburgh Library sometime between 9:30 and 1t59 p.m. His loss is estimated at $110. TUES., SEPT. 19 10:01 a.m.: A resident of Cavanaugh Hall reported the theft of his locked bicy­cle from the bike rack outside Rolf's. His loss is estimated to be $50.  sometime between 2 a.m. and 6:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m.: Notre Dame Police cited a resident of MA for speeding. The defen­dant had been traveling 44 mph in a posted 25 mph zone on Juniper Road. 9:30 p.m.: A Dillon Hall resident re­ported the theft of his wallet and con· tents from the Rockne Memorial while the victim was playing basketball. 10:15 p.m.: A Granger resident was cited by Notre Dame Police for speeding on Juniper Road. The defendant had  THURS., SEPT. 28 9:02 a.m.: A resident of Pasquerilla West reported the theft of the temporary license plates for her car. The theft oc­curred in the D-2 lot sometime between 7 p.m. on 9/21 and 7 p.m. on 9/27. 1:25 p.m.: A Pangborn Hall resident re­ported the theft of his wallet and con­tents from outside a raquetba\1 court in the JACC sometime between 9:15 and 11 p.m. on 9/27.  
1:45 p.m.: A resident of O'Hara Grace  been traveling 44 mph in a posted 25  
reported that her bookbag and contents  mph zone.  
were stolen from the lobby of the South  10:17 p.m.: Two students reported the  
Dining Hall sometime between 11 and 11:45 a.m. Her loss is estimated at $135.  theft of a wallet and various personal items from outside a raquetball court in  CRIME OF THE WEEK  
3:30p.m.: A Morrissey Hall resident re­ theJACC.  
ported the theft of his unlocked bicycle  The Crime of the Week is an at­ 
from outside his dorm sometime be­tween 10 a.m. on 9/11 and 2:30 p.m. on  TUES., SEPT. 26  tempted robbery of a student's brief case on Sept. 12, 1989. The victim  
9/12.  His loss is estimated to be $10.  Noon: A Grace Hall resident reported  reported to Security that as he left  
4:49 p.m.: A Zahm Hall resident re­ported that his bicycle had been stolen  the theft of an unlocked bicycle from out­side St. Michael's Laundry at approxi­ the Law Building about 9:50p.m., he was approached from the rear by a  
from outside his room. The theft oc­curred sometime between 5:30 and 7  mately 11:40 a.m. to be $450.  His loss is estimated  college aged, white male on roller skates. The youth, who was wearing  
p.. m. on 9/15. $350.  His loss is estimated to be  2 p.m.: Notre Dame Police received a report of a one venicle accident behind  grey Notre Dame sweatpants, grabbed the victim's brief case but  
St. Edward's Hall. No injuries were sus­ was unable to pull it from the victim.  
tained and damage was minimal.  The victim reported that he was  
7:45 p.m.: Notre Dame Security re­ 3:31 p.m.: A resident of Pangborn Hall  knocked down during the incident.  
ceived  two  reports from  residents of  reported the theft of his unlocked bicycle  ND Crime Stoppers wants to know  
Knott Hall who had been approached by  from outside Pangborn.  His loss is esti­ who committed this act and will pay a  
four suspicious teenage M/B on bicycles.  mated at $300.  cash reward for information. You  
One  incident  occurred  behind  Pas­ 7:45 p.m.: A Morrissey Hall resident re­ won't be asked to give your name.  
querilla East, and the other occurred  ported the theft of his unlocked bicycle  Call Crime Stoppers at 288-STOP  
between  Stepan  Chemistry  and  from the front of Soutrh Dining Hall.  His  about this or any crime you have in­ 
O'Shaughnessy Hall.  loss is estimated to be $50.  formation about.  


Class 
continued from page 13 
JUNIOR CLASS FALL FORMAL Oct. 6 at Century Center Tickets ($20) available at 
Class Office (3-5 pm.) sold thru Oct. 4 
FRESHMEN TRIP TO THE DUNES IS SUNDAY, OCTOBER 1st!!!l Buses leave Main Circle at 
11 :00. Lunch/ dinner provided. Tickets are $3. 00 but will go quick-pick them up at the Freshmen Yr. of Studies starting Wed, Sept. 27. Take a day oft and meet some people in your class!! 
IRISH MUSIC with John Kennedy and Friends Saturday Night at Club 23 
One more day 
til the world comes toND ... MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL OCT1-7 
SENIOR CLASS CRUISE ON THE SPIRIT OF CHICAGO TIX ON SALE IN SR. CLASS OFFICE 3-5 MON-FRI LIMITED AMOUNTI 
SENIOR RAP UP GROUPS SIGN UPS UNTIL OCT.9 AT CSC 
Call KERRIE ANN SHANNON for a good time on her BIRTHDAY! at 1822. We love you, Steph&Jules 
SUB!!SUB!!SUB!!SUB!!SUB!! 
SUB needs Dorm Reps!!! Dorm Reps!!! Dorm Reps!!! 
Perks included-Come sign up Second Floor LaFortune­Receptionist's Desk by Fri.! I 
SUB!!SUB!!SUB!!SUB!!SUB!! 
FARLEY HALL! I!! Get psyched for a Night on the Street! Saturday!! 
BELL YGRAMS, BALLOONS, SINGING TELEGRAMS, 255-3355 Nl 
ADOPTION: Loving, professional couple in Midwest wishes to adopt newborn. We offer stable and happy home, financial security, welcoming extended family. PLEASE call collect 513-751-6711 after 6:30pm weekdays, anytime weekends.Attorney involved. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY KERRY ANN XOXOXO THE QUINT 
HEY HEY HEY SORIN SCREAMIN' OTIERS GET READY TO RUMBLE IN THE JUNGLE SATURDAY NIGHT 
JANE SMILEY: UNLOC Z104 
P888s p. 36 

PARROT HEADS FOREVER! the "DeMAUDE BOYS" Willy, Fly , Shifty,Reef, Red, Clay 
Tuesday, October 3rd At 8:00p.m. 
A Panel Discussion On the CONTROVERSY caused by 
THE LAST TEMPTATION OF CHRIST 
Featuring: Rev. Michael Himes Dr. David Solomon Dr. Daniel Lapsley Dr. Stephan Fredman Dr. Kate Halischak Dr. Theodore Mandell 
Refreshments 
to follow discussion 
see CLASS I page 6 
C A ..

*************
.. W E S T Y L E A M E R 

Perm Wave or 
"High Flying Colors" Highlights ONLY 
Perm Waves include haircut. shampoo & style. Highlights include Sh-"'mpoo & style. Designer perms not Included. 
University Park Mall 277-4800 ext.498 SIEAIFIS Offer good September 17-October 28 ~~~­

.---------~----------------~~--~~--------.---------------------------------------------~---------------------------­





Viewpoint
page 8 Friday, September 29, 1989 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Regis Coccia 

Exec. News Edltor ....... Matthew Gallagher VIewpoint Edltor .................... Dave Bruner Sports Editor ...................... Theresa Kelly Accent Editor..... . ................... John Blasi Photo Edltor .............................. Eric Bailey Saint Mary's Edltor ............... Christine Gill 
Business Manager Rich Iannelli 
Advertising Manager ............. Molly Killen Ad Design Manager ........ Shannon Roach Production Manager ............ Aiison Cocks Systems Manager .............. Mark Derwent OTS Director.. . .......... Angela Bellanca Controller......... . ................ Anne Lindner 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob­jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 

Censorship wrong for controversial film 
The planned showing of "The Last Temptation of Christ" at Notre Dame has become a rallying cry for Christian conservatives on campus. These people find the film offensive and blasphemous, and they believe Notre Dame is wrong for showing it. Their protests seem to be organized to make a media event of its showing and this is unfortunate. Obviously these people did not think it was such a big deal a year ago when student groups sponsored a viewing of the film or when the book on which the film is based was purchased by our library. 
Just because Notre Dame shows the film does not in any way mean that it endorses or agrees with it; the llesburgh Library owns books by Lenin and Hitler yet the University is not being accused of Communism or Nazism. All of these works are made available to students so that they may be exposed to varying and diverse perspectives; students' accessibility to them embodies the essence of a liberal university education. The showing of "Last Temptation" does not mean the University or anyone associated with it espouses the views contained in the film but rather that they believe in the exchange of' ideas and freedom of expression. 
Many students and professors feel that the movie should not be shown at Notre Dame, and this is disturbing. One professor stated that it would be acceptable to show the film in a classroom setting, but this idea seemingly forgets that learning does not just happen in the classroom but outside of it as well. In a community where education is the primary objective different views on issues should be respected and tolerated in order for everyone to grow intellectually. It is one thing for evangelists and demagogues to oppose the film's showing, but when people committed to higher learning and the quest for knowledge call for censorship it is cause for concern. 
The sponsors of the film are not asking each member of the Notre Dame community to agree with the film's interpretation of the life of Christ. Indeed, people who disagree with the film are free simply not to watch it. 
But those who would like to see "The Last Temptation of Christ" should also be free to view it. 
DOONESBURY 
By Joe Moody 

"Two minutes to midnight." "Woe to you, oh earth and sea... " "The Antichrist is alive and well." These are not the primary messages that The Queen of Peace in Medjugorje has come to deliver. Her mes­sages center on Prayer, Fasting, Penance, Holy Mass, Confessions, Peace and Conversion. Sound familiar'? They should. 
This last August I was fortu­nate enough to make a pilgrim­age to Medjugorge, Yugoslavia for the International Youth Conference where the Blessed Virgin Mary has been appearing since 1981 to six young vi­sionaries in that remote com­munist village. 
Many, of course, doubt and claim that this eight-year span of apparitions and miracles oc­curring there and spreading throughout the world is simply "the imagination of children." Such claims leave me feeling somewhat dismayed. Many times my initial impulse is to argue and debate the various points. But I've come to realize that it is not necessary. This isn't about theological con­tention; it's about reality, about a simple return to God. 
I Icr messages arc basic ones, sometimes so basic that we deem them out-dated or old­fashioned: the reality of Heaven, Hell, and Purgatory, the necessity of prayer and faith that is mandatory to begin conversion. The strength of Satan in a modern technologi­cal world. She has come as an echo of the past, the early church, reminding us of the fundamentals of reaching God. 
But this is not the past. She is active now around the world as well as in Medjugorje, appear­ing many places. Yes, there are miracles happening in the heav­ens. Yes, millions arc respond­ing to her urgent call and re­ceiving the grace of Salvation. And yes, she has been revealing ten secrets to the visionaries concerning coming chastise­ments (or disasters) to the earth. In tears, she has ex­plained to the children that the world has reached a point where it cannot turn itself around anymore. Because of this, many are dismissing the messages, altogether declaring that the visionaries are bring­ing us messages of gloom and doom that contradict the hope offered in the Gospels. 
But is that elaim accurate'? What do we foresee happening from On High in the Book of Hevelation'? Or in the Gospel of Mark when Jesus points out, "For in those days there will be such distress as, until now, has not been equalled since the be­ginning." God's judgment, as some would like to believe, is not out-dated. In Lourdes and Fatima, Our Lady also gave similar prophesies to children that the Church itself has de­clared authentic. No, this is nothing new or obscure. 
I remember one evening when Jakov, the youngest visionary (now 18, the same age as my­self), came to our house to talk exclusively to our group. lie is a shy and soft-spoken person yet radiant with an inner joy as arc the rest of the visionaries. Someone asked him, "flow ean you be so full of peace knowing the secrets coming to the earth'?" He answered though the translator, "Anyone who knows the Lord has peace." 
Here is a normal 18 year old (he has been psychoanalyzed as have all the visionaries and proven to be of "very sound mind"). lie has spent his entire teenage life praying hours a day, fasting and attending Church seven days a week. Jakov has received daily ap­paritions of Mary sincn lw was ten. That would be quito an imagination. 
The one thing that struck me deepest about tlw visionari1~s was that whnnever sonwone would pose a complieatl~d or overly-elever question they would smile and simply state. "It doesn't matter." or "I don't know." That's whon it oeeurn~d to me that this isn't about fur­thering the purposes of institu­tions, q unstion i ng tlwologiral doetrinns, or rnligious rivalries. It's about the simple salvation of God that Mary, in thes1~ most urgent times, is helping us to rneeive. It transcends all argu­ment. 
Mary is not here t.o over­shadow God or to take the place of Jesus. She is lwre holding a mirror toward God, rellneting Ilis Grace, in a time when most have forgott1~n what llis n~nection looks lik1~. 
I don't eonsider myself a holy-rolling rnligious l'anatic. Those who know me know I'm l'ar l'rom it. I just b1~lieve in this simple reality: in God, that's all. And much more than I ever did before this. 
As l'or all those who bitterly doubt and attack or just ignore Mary's presence in Medjugorje, Jesus already addressed that issue in Matthew 11 :25 whnn he exclaimnd, "I bless you, Father. Lord of heaven and earth, for hiding these things from the learned and the dever and re­vealing them to mnre children." 
Joe Moody is a student in the Freshman Year of Studies. 

Viewpoint welcomes letters and columns on a variety of issues. Send your thoughts to: Viewpoint, 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
C)ARRY TRUDEAU 

/A/HeN I 7CI.L PWPle ABOUT 
7H&: ...UM ...7H/NG·MA·BOB... 7HAT 
AfF!RM4TIV&
u;e've /}/3'1£1.0PW Fa< a;R....I-fl... 
J!CTION. tuflltr WHAT
THe TH/NGIA/8/VIAJ<e, tf/tU._., IT 
AR& YOU THING­
JU'3T MAKeS Me PROUO THAT 
GONNA /XJ~ MA-BO!P
\ I?rl fX¥N6 MY 
8fT70PR&­

\ \
VtWT. .. UH... 
/"'"'
f?AO 
5TUPF. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Be glad of life because it gives 
you the chance to love and to 
work and to play and look up at 
the stars.' 
Henry Van Dyke (1852-1933) 


---------------------------~--------------------------------------------~ 
Viewpoint
Friday, September 29, 1989 
page 9 

LETTERS 
Controversy over 'Last Temptation' continues 
Film misrepresents the 'new, loving humanity' of Jesus 

r------------~----"Gosh, I could have been mar-had to concentrate every sec-suffering. I sec that "The Last Tempta­
Dear Editor: 
~ ried and had a pretty good time ond to go to the lowest point of It must be a human Jesus tion of Christ" has come to 
of it, and had some great sex'?" abject human suffering, that he who saves us from evil and suf­Notre Dame. Unfortunately, 
I submit that in his selfless might save us from it and from fering. But the humanity he this space docs not allow for a 
way, recognizing where his the evil that allows us to inflict showed us is not the humanity full treatment of what is wrong mission would take him, Jesus it on others. of Nikos Kazantzakis, Scors­with the film. or of what is had already settled this matter. Maybe the Jesus that Martin ese, or Greeley, but a radically wrong with Notre Dame show­Might instead his temptation, Scorsese knows hung on a new, loving humanity that ing it. So, I just ask the readers during every second of his pas-cross fantasizing about sex manifested divinity, a humanity to eonsider some points before sion, have been to give up'? with Barbara Hershey. The Je-that we can join through that they decide to sen it. being abandoned, sus I know refused a sedative human who showed and made 
Authorities no less notable .. ridiculed, tortured in ways that at the crucifixion, and hung on the way. than i\ndrnw Greeley have la­this fantasy? Jesus was, indeed, we cannot imagine, nailed a cross concentrating all he So, please consider that same beled those who oppose this a sexual human being, and this naked to a cross in front of could to take one more breath, human before you decide to see film fundam1mtalists, Docntists, sexual human being said, haters who spat on him, might one more time pulling himself this film, and ask yourself what and Manichnes. I am not a fun­"Everyone who looks at a he just have said, "What does it up against the nails in his he would think of it. damentalist. The seeming in­woman lustfully was already matter, they don't care," and hands to breathe, that he might Peter Ritzer consistnneins in the Bible pre­committed adultery with her in dropped the whole thing'? But never leave us alone again, no St. Joseph Hall dude this, and yet the truth of his heart" (Matt 5:28). As the for us to be saved by him, he matter how deep our pain and Sept. 22. 1989 its overall message sustains my ultimate true lover Jesus ele­faith. I am not a Doectist. If Je­vated right behavior to a higher 
Movie generates intellectual thought
sus was and is not fully human, standard where thought is as tlwn he did not save us from sin important as action, where the Dear Editor: appropriate for "The Last in the movie (as it is in several and death. I do not subseribe to ancient commandments to love Celebrate a victory! Somebody Temptation" to be shown here New Testament passages) that Maniehaeism. Matl!~r and sexu­God with all you've got and in the Department of Communi­on campus. Not only that, but Jesus really had doubts about ality and procreation are won­your neighbor as yourself sum cation and Theatre realized because Notre Dame considers his godliness is not offensive, derful gifts from God. I am up the whole program. Would that when you refer to Notre itself a center of religious but instead, quite reassuring. none of the above, and yet I ob­love have kept him from aeting Dame as a "Catholic Univer­thought, then it is equally inap­Without getting into esoteric ject to this lilm. out his sexual desire in a situa­sity," the noun is "University" propriate for it not to be shown theology, these are the reasons 
Would Jesus have failed to tion in which he could not offer and "Catholic" is a further de­on campus. that I find the movie to be an recognize Satan'? lie reeognized the commitment thereby neces­scription of the university. Ap­It is much easier for me to important work. It scares me Satan when Satan tempted him sitated? And remember, for preciating this, Notre Dame accept Jesus as a role model if that people like Professor Mur­in the desert. lie rneognized Sa­him aeting out was not confined should be considered first and He is as human as I am. If He is phy are sometimes intolerant of tan in the possessed. lie recog­to action but to thought as foremost an institution of intel­as human as I am, then He is different perspectives as he was nized Satan in his best friend well. And couching the fantasy lectual thought; it should not be subject to the same human in his Viewpoint article (The (somehow I find it diffieult to within a marriage does not just a trade school for Catholic, faults that I am. And if, regard­Observer, Sept. 25). acc1~pt Judas in this role), ehange the fact that they were or for that matter, Christian less of this, He still casts away Intolerance leads to censor­Pnter. But now wn are to bdieve not married. doctrine. His selfishness and is as loving ship, which is a squelching of that at the point when a sinless Will seeing this movie enrich True intellectual thought in­and giving as He has been por­intellectual thought. This has human dying on a cross for all you? Would you be enriched by volves a free flow of ideas on a trayed, then he becomes a gen­no place at a university, and humanity would be most aware seeing someone's subject, regardless of how uine role model that I can be­therefore no place at the Uni­of evil. he would allow Satan to "interpretation" of your best strange they may seem. "The lieve that I can become. But, versity of Notre Dame. take him through a fantasy of friend's, sibling's, or parent's Last Temptation of Christ" self-doubt is one of these hu­stPamy domestic bliss without life, if it misrepresented that offers some different ideas on man qualities that He must Bob Hallahan recognizing him. individual whom you love? Jesus than those we're used to possess if He is as human as I. Holy Cross Hall 
Would Jesus have indulged in Was Jesus' last temptation, hearing. Therefore, it is wholly Thus, for me, the idea proposed Sept. 28, 1989 
Religious diversity opens the mind Criticism of service at dining hall deemed unfair by worker
Dear Hditor: reminds him that "Judas re­with an open mind, we deny 
i\lthough it seems the issue of eeived thirty pieces of silver for ourselves an education. We Dear Editor: Many people complain about the movie. "The Last Tempta­his betrayal." should not allow anyone, I am writing in response to the one entree limit also. How­tion of Christ" has been beaten As students we should actively whether it be our professors, Colleen Cronin's Inside Column ever, if they could see all the to death. Professor Edward seek out diversity, including our parents, our peers, or soci­(The Observer, Sept. 27) re­food that is wasted coming Murphy's article, "Why Was ND movies like "The Last ety to prevent us from the edu­garding the service at North through the back (in some Tempted by 'Last Tempta­Temptation of Christ" that may cation we deserve. It is those Dining Hall. I believe that she is cases, entrees not even tion"?" elicits a response. Prof. conflict with our religious be­that are too narrow-minded to being grossly unfair. touched), they would see that Murphy feels that because the liefs. We came to a university to accept other points of view and I presently work as a server one entree is a reasonable limit. movie expresses a view that is learn about all aspects of life, grant themselves this education on the lines, and I always try to I agree with Ms. Cronin that in connict with his and those of not just ones that are in accor­that are the true idiots. be as pleasant and as accomo­the salad bar is not always in many, but not necessarily all dance with the Roman Catholic Triona Byrne dating as possible within the the best of condition, but most Christians. it is a wicked act to Church. By refusing to listen Pasquerilla East work guidelines. She mentions of that can also be attributed sponsor the movie. Unfortu­and evaluate other's opinions Sept. 27, 1989 the long lines at the dining hall to the huge lines that converge nately, Prof. Murphy fails to and then completely dismisses upon North Dining Hall for understand that it is by expos­them as a reason for the lack both lunch and dinner. ing ourselves to differing opin­Debate revitalizes firm beliefs of food. I find that extremely 
ions can we form and unreasonable, because there is I also think that she is for­strengthen our own. Dear Editor: forum where both sides can en­only so much food that can be getting that most of the things 
In the article Prof. Murphy The film "The Last Temptation ter into dialogue. For all of us, kept on the front line to be im­she is complaining about hap­criticizes the movie for "telling of Christ" continues to be the we have no doubt, such dialogue mediately served and with a pened in old North too. Lines lies about Jesus" and calls it a subject of much controversy. will challenge our beliefs. But in hundred or so passing through caused shortages on the food "veritable tissue of falsehood Some find it offensive to their the end, a faith that remains un­in less than a half hour it is im­lines, and I am certain that the and distortion." lie says that faith and think it should be challenged is bound to become a possible to keep food in con­quality of the salad bar is just those responsible for sponsor­banned; others find it an excel­dead faith. In this context that stant supply. about the same. I don't think ing a movie that disagrees with lent occasion for reflection on dialogue will be an occasion to If all the food were cooked that most of the people on the traditional Christian view of the issues it raises. reflect on what we believe, and ahead of time, it would not be campus realize how the dining Jesus, are "idiots." Millions of Professor Edward Murphy is hopefully to come to a deeper fresh, and there would be even halls have changed, mostly for people in this world, including among those Christians who find understanding of our faith. more complaints, this time the better. some at this University, do not the film offensive. He writes (The In that spirit, the Grace Hall about the food tasting old. Per­North Dining Hall is under­believe Jesus was the Messiah Observer, Sept. 25) that "[the Intellectual Life Committee is sonally, I always try to tell peo­staffed, serving more people or even a holy man. These peo­film I is an outrage, and those of sponsoring a panel discussion on ple that the item they want is than last year with less staff. ple have the same and equal us who acknowledge Jesus as the issues raised by this film on coming, or direct them to an­The managers have been look­right to hold an express their Lora dare not remain silent." We Tuesday, Oct. 3 at 8 p.m. in the other line if I know I won't be ing into other avenues. It seems beliefs as does Prof. Murphy. happen to be among the Chris­Grace "Pit". Six faculty members getting any more. that most Notre Dame students Ilowever, holding a belief or tians that do not find the film of­from different University de­are above working there. Other sponsoring a movie that is in fensive. No one of us is alone in partments will each present their I think that if Ms. Cronin and options include co-ops with connict with Prof. Murphy's his view; in fact we know that we views, which will be followed by all the other complainers would South Bend high schools and a belief is not wicked and does are in just as good and sincere audience participation. We invite try to be a little nicer to the graduated wage scale. I think not make them idiots. company as he is. the whole University community servers and all the other work­that Ms. Cronin and others 
Another unfounded compari­So we have a problem: both to join us in this discussion. We ers, then they might warrant a would be welcome to work at son that Prof. Murphy makes is sides claim to believe in the same hope to make of this controver­right to complain. If they had North Dining hall if they that of the sponsors to Judas. faith, yet they disagree very sial movie an educational mo-to deal with the stupid and wanted to put an effort into Selling tickets to cover the ex­strongly on the conclusions they inane things people do to their improving what they consider pense of a movie is not akin to draw from the film. What should . Craig Gundersen trays (like putting napkins in to be inferior service. 
sending an innocent man to be we do? Chair, Grace Halllntellei:tual Life glasses or putting wet newspa­
crueified for profit. Prof. Mur­Being in a learning community, Chad Tate pers underneath their plates), Marijo Yates phy alludes to this by stating the only responsible way to deal Coordinator, Grace Period most people would reconsider Lewis Hall that selling these movie tickets with this situation is to provide a Sept. 25, 1989. their actions. Sept. 28, 1989 
On the road again... 

camEUS & 
in town fri.
MOVIES 

"The Accused" Engineering Auditorium, at 8 and 10:15 p.m., $2 "The Last Temptation of Christ" 
Annenberg Aud., 6 & 9 p.m., $2 
'·.·.·.: 
MUSIC
·,. 
, .~ 

R.E.M. in concert with NRBQ 
JACC 8 p.m. Dance Party Theodore's, 10 p.m. St. Paul and the Martyrs 
Senior Bar, 10 p.m. _ Center Street Blues Supper Club Rhythm Riot, rockabilly 
9:30 p.m. Friday and 
Saturday 
sate 
MOVIES 

"This is Spinal Tap" Engineering Auditorium, 8 & 10:15 p.m., $2 "The Last Temptation of Christ" Annenberg Aud., 6 & 9 p.m., $2 
MUSIC 
Dance Part)' 

Theodore s 10 p.m. John Kennedy & Friends 
Club 23, 10 p.m. 
local •
movies 
University Park East 
sex, lies, and videotape 7:40/9:50 Millenium 7:45/9:50 Turner and Hooch 7:30/9:30 Lethal Weapon 2 7:15/9:45 Dead Poets Society 7:00/9:30 Uncle Buck 7:45/9:45 
University Park West 
When Harry Met Sally 7:40/9:45 Kickboxer 7:40/9:45 The Package 7/9:30 
100 Center 
Young Einstein 7:30/9:30 Ghostbusters 2 7:00 See No Evil, Hear No Evil 9:00 
ROBYN SIMMONS assistant accent editor 
The Michigan game has come and gone. The next stop on the roadtripper agenda is Purdue, home of the Boilermakers, golden girls, silver twins, and the World's Largest Drum. 
Purdue University is in West Lafayette, IN, approximately a two and a half hour drive from South Bend. Hoadtrippers can take US 31 south to State Hoad 25 and travel south until you sec the signs for Purdue. Be sure to 1:ross the Wabash Hiver from Lafayette into West Lafayette. 
West Lafayette is a big col­lege town, and the campus is combined with the city. The combined population of Lafayette and West Lafayette exceeds 65,000. The student population is also large-ap­proximately 35,000 students are enrolled at the West Lafayette campus. There is a considerably large Greek popu­lation at Purdue, with 20 soror­ity houses and 45 fraternity houses. 
The residence halls are rela­tively spread out on campus, but they should be easily recog­nizable; most of the dorms are set up in quad formation. Cary quad, one of the largest com­plexes of dorms, is directly across from the stadium. 
For those roadtrippers head­ing down to Purdue today, there will be a performance of the Black Watch and the Argyll & Sutherland Highlanders, in­ternationally known Scottish dancers, bagpipe and drum 
musicians, at the Elliot llall of 
Music at 8 p.m. Tickets range
from $8-$14. 

Saturday afternoon, the place 
to be is Hoss-Ade stadium, 
which seats 67,861 fans. The 
stadium is on the north end 'of 
campus, and most tailgaters 
are held in the parking lot di­

rectly adjacent to the stadium. Winnebagos with the ND !lag can be found outside of Hoss­Ade stadium, just as if it were a home football game. 
Be sure to look for th11 Alumni Association van with a large awning and an ND ban­ner. The van will be in the Me­dia lot directly north of the stadium two and a half hours before the game and will m­main there for about an hour after the game. 

For people spending the night who don't happen to have a friend to stay with on campus, there art1 several hotels in the area. In West Lafayette: Family Inns, 1920 Northwestern Ave. 
(800) 251-9752; Holiday Inn, Interstate 65 North and State road 43 North, (800)238-8000; Sheraton University Inn, US Highway 52 at Cumberland Ave. (800)325-3535; Travelodge, North River Hoad, (800)255­3050. 
The Purdue game is probably the last chance this season that roadtrippers will be able to journey a relatively short dis­tance. Don't miss this opportu­nity to back the Irish and see the Purdue band's proudest possession-the World's Largest Drum. 

A B 
_,_ 
1• CaryQ.I4drangle E4 
Ill Ouhme H1U D1
t• U.rhlrl Hall Cl 

ta rowler COlina C, D1 n'"' 
104 row1e1 Hcu-D1 
u• HattiiiCnHaU a 

u• Hawluna (OIIC!Qir A 1 Otadll<lt• H0111111 01 IO'J Man...:! S!udelll C.:.... " I, Cl, I Jt• Mllrr..:l Sludelll ~ Admm~IIUICfo 
, ___:'_::::_ ''r r I
8wk1Lil';J Cl
t• Man~ Sluder~~ Tllllllll Covnol )tHICIII\Q ll 

Ill McCIIIC'heon Hall H -~o 
Ill Mtt!todtii\HaU D1 
I U Owwn Hall D4 ~I 
II:S Roae·Ad• Sludent AJJ&f1m•nl• D3 
114 SIM41y Hall D1 
Ill stueveHall a '­
Ill Smalley Oohn C 1Center !Ol HOUJI/lQ and 
rcodSerYioeft Adm1n•nat10n Dt 
.:r 
m TuQ~g~on Hall D4 Ill T.ny Couna Dl, I 
Ill "nlrll' H01gg D1 
IS Vawte1 H11l D1 
Ill Watii!IM Hall PI 
Ill Wdey Hall De 
ta Wood H1U D1 
IU YcunQif:tne.tCIO!IIdllllll!l Houae 01 

Ross-A
*
2 
had to be at least 21 to rent one. There was only one other option for an enterprising group or 18 year olds to rent transportation: a U-llaul mov­ing van. It seemed like a good idea at the time. 


ROBYN SIMMONS assistant accent editor 
Once upon a time there were ten freshman who wanted to go to the Purdue game ... 
Two years ago, a group of us decided that we would road­trip to Purdue, party, watch the game, party, and go back home to celebrate some more-no problem. 
Well, one small problem. None of us had a car, and we 



~---·~---<--.......,.------------~---· 


ISH 
__XTRA 
THE GAME 
The Game 
Time TV & Radio 
Tickets AP Rankings Series Last Game 
NO SCHEDULE 
Aug 31 Sept. 16 Sept. 23 Sept. 30 Oct. 7 Oct. 14 Oct. 21 Oct. 28 Nov. 4 Nov. 11 Nov. 18 Nov. 25 
PURDUE SCHEDULE
.. 


Sept. 9 Purdue 27, Miami (Ohio) 10 Sept. 16 Washington 38, Purdue 9 Sept. 30 NOTRE DAME Oct. 7 at Minnesota Oct. 14 ILLINOIS Oct. 21 at Ohio St. Oct. 28 MICHIGAN STATE Nov. 4 at Michigan Nov. 11 NORTHWESTERN Nov. 18 IOWA Nov. 25 at Indiana 
LAST GAME , 
The top-ranked Notre Dame football team won Saturday's game against Michigan State. 
The unfamiliar, mistake-prone, pressured Irish made the game close, as it took a fourth­quarter drive to settle the game at 21-13. 
"I think our guys will grow from this week," Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz said. "They faced adversity when things weren't going well. 
We played badly and kind of got frustrated and tried to do things that aren't built into the system. There were a lot of mistakes made dur­ing the course of the football game. We have an awful lot for work to do, we're just going to have to go forward." 
Wait a minute, who won this game? 
Give some credit to the Spartans, though. Playing without their leading ground-gainer, the Spartans turned to a passing attack to p1,1t a scare into the Notre Dame team that was an 18­
.l..f,}9Ul~~~~-------------__J has become a leader who carries on the tradition that 
Notre Dame (3-0} vs. Purdue (1-1) 
11:10 a.m. EST (South Bend time} 
ABC Sports: Keith Jackson, Bob Griese, Mik Adamle. Mutual Radio Network WVFI 
The game is sold out. 
Notre Dame 1st Purdue unranked 
Notre Dame leads 37-21 with two ties 
Notre Dame 52, Purdue 7 


ND 36, Virginia 13 ND 24, Michigan 19 ND 21, Michigan St. 19 at Purdue at Stanford at Air Force 
usc 

PITTSBURGH NAVY SMU at Penn State at Miami 
Notre Dame vs. Purdue 
The Observer I E.G. Bailey 

Tim Grunhard (75) chases down the Michigan defender. Grunhard made the block, allowing Ricky Watters (12) a big gain. 
Grunhard learned from top of the line 
BY KEN TYSIAC 
Sports Writer 

The most important weapon in Lou Holtz's Notre Dame arsenal is a strong running game. Irish offensive guard Tim Grunhard realizes this all too well, since it is his responsibility to knock mammoth defensive tackles away from Notre Dame ballcarriers all game long. 
"I realized when I came here that Notre Dame has al­ways been a running team," says Grunhard, "In every game we must establish the run right off the bat." 
Of course, the performance of the offensive line is crucial to the success of the running game. Without good holes to run through, even quality running backs like Anthony Johnson and Ricky Watters can be shut down. 
Since opponents come into games knowing that Notre Dame's primary objective is to run the ball, they are usually well prepared to dig in and battle the Irish in the trenches. This puts an added burden on the offensive line. 
"There definitely is a lot of pressure on us, but the coaches do a very good job preparing us for it, as we work on the fundamentals of run-blocking every day in practice," says Grunhard, who hails from Chicago. 
Since he weighs in at 290 pounds, Grunhard is ex­pected to block for the running backs as well anybody on the Notre Dame line. As a senior, he expects himself to do something more in terms of leadership on the field. 
"I can try to be a leader on the field by example," Grunhard explains, "But it's really hard to be a leader here at Notre Dame because we have so many great athletes here. But if you show that you're intense and you want to win very badly, your teammates will respect you." 
Two years ago as a sophomore, Tim saw extensive ac­tion on an offensive line which at the time featured co­captains Byron Spruell and Chuck Lanza, two of the best blockers in the country. Grunhard credits Spruell and Lanza, who were both seniors at the time, with teaching him the ins and outs of Notre Dame football. 
"As seniors, Spruell and Lanza exemplified the Notre Dame spirit. They showed me that it is the obligation of a senior to set the tone for the next four years. After playing under Gerry Faust when the team wasn't so suc­cessful, they kept their spirit up into the Holtz years and left as winners," Grunhard praises. 
As the senior member of the offensive line, Grunhard Spruell and Lanza left behind. His desire for perfection helps him advise younger players. 
"If we don't do the little things right, Tim points it out to us right away," says sophomore running bdck Rodney Culver, "He is always trying to help us improve." 
But one good player cannot make an offensive line successful all by himself. On any play, four players can make great blocks, but if the fifth screws up, an oppos­ing linebacker can bust into the backfield and cut down a running back for a loss. Grunhard feels it is most im­portant for the offensive linemen to improve in their performance as a team rather than playing as individ­uals. 
"We must develop a continuity and be able to become a family inside. We must become so tight that we think to ourselves, 'If I don't perform my block, I will let the guy next to me down.'" 
Culver stresses that the concept of the team is very dear to Grunhard. "Tim is not a 'me' oriented person," says Culver, "He is concerned first and foremost with helping the team, and that makes us all perform better." 
Grunhard tries to give a little bit extra to his team­mates on the special teams, where he performs all of the long-snapping chores. He is noted especially for being the first one down the field to pressure the opposition on punt returns, and takes tremendous pride in this aspect of his game. 
"If you can make the perfect snap and get down the field quickly, it gives you a great feeling," he gushes, "I mean, I weigh 290 pounds, so I'm not hard to elude, but I may cause a fair catch, or cause the returner to cut back against the grain. If can do that, I feel I've done a good job." 
Grunhard thinks he and his teammates can do a good job against Purdue tomorrow. He says that Purdue has a typical Big Ten defense with regard to the fact that they line up head to head and drive straight at an of­fense, but he believes the Irish will be able to move the ball against them. 
"If we perform up to our capabilities we should be able to handle Purdue's defense. We'll have to establish the run as well as a more effective passing game, but I firmly believe people will be surprised with our passing game," says Grunhard, adding that he thinks quarter­back Tony Rice will soon show the world that he is one of the best passers in the country. 
Rodney Culver agrees that the Irish should be success­ful against the Purdue defense. "If the line continues to play well and open up holes, we should be successful," he says. 

.----.----.-----------------.-------~~~--~~--~--------~------~---~----------------~--~~------~-----~-------,----~~ 
IRISH EXTRA Friday, September 29, 1989 
The Game... 
By STEVE MEGARGEE near the bottom of the Big Ten tain Anthony Johnson has been ' Associate Sports Editor ever sinee the departure of Los dependable inside with 1 79 Angeles Rams quarterback Jim yards on 49 carries, and tail­
It wasn't too long ago that Evemtt in 1986. back Hicky Watters has 174 tlw nwre nwntion of Purdue "We must improve because yards on 33 carries and showed would strikn fnar into thn we're not a good team right his breakaway ability with his lwarts of any Notw Damn fan. now and must play at our very 53-yard touchdown run against 
Aftnr all. the Boilermakers best to stay on thn field with Michigan State. 
have mad!' a tradition out of Notre Dame," said Purdue Hodney Culver, who was out upsntting Fighting Irish coach Fred Akers. for most of the Miehigan State squads. If history is any indica­If Purdue pulls the upset this game with a hip pointer, should tion, Notre Dame would appear wenkend, don't call them the be available Saturday. Holtz to lw in a particularly delicate Spoilermakers. They'd be more has indicated that freshman 
situation when it hnads to likn the Miraele Makers. Heggie Brooks, the brother of Hoss-Ade Stadium this tinw 1988 Irish tailback Tony around. Notr<' Dame's offense Brooks, will see his first col­Purdue has a 4-2 record vs. legiate action Saturday. 
against Notre Dame teams cn­Purdue's defense Irish speedster Haghib tnring a game ranked first in "Rocket" Ismail will start at the nation. The Boilers have a The Irish offensive attack has flanker with Pat Eilers at split ­:3-1 record against Notre Dame not been particularly impres­end. 
squads that were defending sive in either of the last two Steve Belles, who had his first national titles. games. Notre Dame scored only collegiate reception last week­
"I have great respect for one touchdown from scrim­end, will work as a second­Purdue," said Notre Dame mage against Michigan and team receiver. eoach Lou lloltz. "Purdue's al­turned the ball over four times "Notre Dame certainly de­ways given Notre Dame a tough against Michigan State. serves its No. 1 ranking," said time every plaee, but espedally Quarterback Tony Rice called Akers. "They are an excellent 
when we're at Hoss-Ade his performance last weekend team at all positions with out­Stadium." (8-of-15 for 90 yards and two standing speed. They ean beat 
But while Purdue fans are interceptions) the worst of his you in a variety of ways be­spending their week recalling Notre Dame career. Holtz cause they are a complete foot­past Purdue successes, the eur­replied that, "He's an intelligent ball team and are very well­.. . 
'> ,j d 1!:~ ... ~ 

rent events in this series dearly man, and he summed that up coached." favor Notre Dame. very well." Holtz compared Purdue's run Photo Courtesy of Purdue Sports Information Nonetheless, Holtz does not defense to that of Michigan
In Lou lloltz's three years in Purdue flanker Calvin Williams, who leads the team in receptions.
South Bend, the Irish have believe Rice will have another State, which was able to con­swept Purdue by respective game like that at Purdue. trol Notre Dame for much of 
tory over Purdue by taking ad­good passer," said lloltz. "llis
scores of 41-9, 44-20 and 51-7. "I won't get overwhelmingly the second half. The Boilers The Boilers, 1-1, have had alarmed," said Holtz. "How can have allowed an average of 3.7 vantage of the Boiler pass de­arm is much stronger than I 
two weeks to stew over their a guy play 60-some games and yards per carry so far this sea­fense. Purdue has allowed an imagined." 38-9 loss to No. 21 play as flawlessly as he has? son. average of 229 passing yards A junior and first-year Washington. The Irish, 3-0, are There's nobody I'd rather have Senior linebacker Darrin per game. starter, l.etnich has completed 
coming off a subpar perfor­at quarterback than Tony Trieb leads the Boilers in tack­Steve Jackson, who had the 36 of 76 passes for 452 yards mance against Michigan State. Rice." les, while defensive ends John job of covering eventual this season with two intercep­
Notre Dame eomes into the Rice leads all Notre Dame Sikora and Dennis Dotson also Heisman Trophy winner Tim tions and two touchdowns. contest as a 31-point favorite rushers with 227 yards on 40 have turned in solid play. Brown during his freshman Letnich's main target is se­over Purdue, which has been carries. Fullback and tri-cap-Washington got its big vic-season, anchors the Purdue nior flanker Calvin Williams. 
secondary. with 14 receptions for 19S ~-, "Steve has made a lot of yards. Tight end J>wayrw
.....:&. 
progress," said Akers. "lie's O'Connor has seven catches for
~.~"' .. 
always been a gutty competitor. 89 yards. "'· I feel awfully good about having "They have a run-and-shoot -~ .............. Steve Jackson in our sec­type of of'fm1se that pres!'nts
¥ 
... ,....
"

.--.. ondary." you with a lot of problems." Jarrett Scales leads Purdue said Holtz. "Purdue's a tal1mtt>d with two interceptions. footba!l team. They have not 
"They have defensive backs bnen able to run the ball on a that run exeeptionally well," consistent basis, but tlwy havP said Holtz. "They all look like a very good passing ganw." they have 4.4 or 4.5 speed." l'urdw~ is averaging only 56.5 
Shawn McCarthy, who started rushing yards pnr ganw. includ­at quarterback in Purdue's 51-ing a feeble 1.6 yards pnr carry. 7 loss to the Irish last season, Jerome Sparkman is the has emerged as a quality Boilers' leading ruslwr with punter with a 43.5 average. just S8 yards on 31 carries. 
The Boilnrs will have a hard Purdue offense tim1~ changing their fortunes on vs. the ground against Notre Notre Dame defpnse Dame. The Irish hav1~ allowed only 2.7 yards a carry so far 
Purdue quarterback Steve this season. behind the defen­Letnich is a familiar face to sive line of Jeff Aim, Bob Dahl Holtz, but the Air Force trans­and Chris Zorich and a 
Photo Courtesy of Purdue Sports Information 
fer has surprised the Irish coach with his play this season. see GAME, page 4
Linebacker Darrin Trieb leads Purdue with 24 tackles after leading the Big Ten in solo tackles in '88. 
"I didn't realize he was such a 

BOILERMAKERS TO WATCH 

•1JI''
.. 




Fred Akers Steve Letnich Darrin Trieb Jarrett Scales 
Jerome ~garkman

Coach QB MLB ss 
Akers has seen his Purdue Letnich leads the Boilermaker The 6-2, 228 pound Trieb With two passes broKen up Sparkman is the one man on teams finish with 3-7-1 and 4-passing attack. In two games leads the Boilermaker de­and two more intercepted, the Boilermakers who has 7 records, both sixth in the this season, he has com­fense in tackles with 16 Scales is a force to be reck­been able to move the ball on Big Ten, in his two years as pleted 36-of-76 passes for unassisted and eight as­oned with on defense. He also the ground. He has 88 yards the Boilermaker head coach. 452 yards, two touchdowns sisted, two tackles for loss has 22 tackles in two games in two games this year. He was 86-31-2 in 1 0 years at and two interceptions. and one quarterback sack. this season. Texas. 




-~ 

_____,__.,...__________, 
IRISH EXTRA 
Friday, September 29, 1989 
Aim making the most of his starting job 
By STEVE MEGARGEE juvenated pass rush. 
Associate Sports Editor 
While many Notre Dame 
During a break in the 1988 football observers were sur­season. Lou Holtz visited prised at his rapid progress, former Irish players and cur­Aim simply attributed it to one rent Los Angeles Haid11rs Steve of his personal philosophies B1~uedein and Tim Brown. about the game. 
lloltz still rememb11rs his "My theory is that someone conv11rsation with the former who's on the second string is llcisman Trophy winner. going to play like a second­
"The first thing Tim Brown stringer, but once you're put said to me was that lw couldn't into a starting position, you're believe the improvement of Jeff going to start playing like a Aim." recalls lloltz. starter," he said. 
Aim. who has emerged as one Nonetheless. Aim's improve­of tlw major forces in Notre ment in a year certainly caught Danw's potent defensive line, many people off-guard. Holtz nevPr anticipatPd being the may have been the most sur­subject of such conversations prised of them all. wher1 he first arrived on cam­"You could not look at Jeff pus. Aim as a sophomore and envi­
"I startnd out just wanting to sion the player he would be­contribute and play." recalls come," said the Irish head the senior from Orland Park, coach. Ill. "That's not enough any­It's not as though Alm was morn." lacking in physical attributes. 
Aim's change in attitude came At 6-foot-7 and 270 pounds, about the same time John Aim has the height that can Palermo arrived as Notre Dame wreak havoc on opposing quar­defensive line coach in the terbacks. spring of 1988. Only in his junior year did 
llaving played a total of less Aim begin fully taking advan­than 55 minutes his freshman tage of those gifts. Alm became and sophomore seasons, Aim a master at batting down was impressive enough in passes and gained minor Palermo's first spring session celebrity status when he fin­at Notre Dame to win the Her­ished the season as the team ing Award as the most im­leader with three interceptions. proved defensive line. The last Notre Dame lineman 
A few months later. Aim was to lead the team in intercep­given an even greater award tions was Bernie Crimmins, when he won a starting spot at with four in 1941. defensive tackle. "The big joke was that I would somehow grab a hold of him, and he just chases the And the small goals that Aim 
football." had set for himself earlier have"(Palermo) gave me the bene­played tight end in high school the ball and bring it down. 
given way to loftier ambitions. 
lit of the doubt," said Aim. "He and I couldn't catch at all," "Being able to catch the ball As a senior and second-year "My pass rush needs somegave me a chance to see what I said Aim. "It's just a matter of is more of a freakish matter, starter, Alm has continued to work," he said. ''I'm confidentcould do and a chance to play." being in the pass rush, and but (Aim) is around the football improve and is emerging as a against the run, but I needThe coaches' faith in Aim there's a lot of luck involved." a lot," said Palermo. "The best leader on the defense. 
more work against the pass.
paid off. as he played more Aim's interceptions normally thing Jeff Alm does is chase the "I don't think he's a rah-rah ''I've set a lot of higher goalsminutes than any other Irish came when he would lift his football. type of individual, but he does a for myself this year. I want todefensive lineman and was a arms up to bat down a pass at "Most of his plays come when good job of leading through make an impact. I want to bekey figure in Notre Dame's re-the line of scrimmage, then people are running away from example," said Palermo. 
counted on." 

Boilers top Notre Dame in Indianapolis 
By VIC LOMBARDI 
Sports Writer 
Both Notre Dame and Purdue were out to prove something in the 1984 season opener: The Irish hoped to restore a domi­nant football reputation that had so ruefully abandoned them in the first three seasons under Gerry Faust. 
The Boilermakers saw the game as a bit of a grudge matrh. seeking to avenge a 52­6 shellacking by Notre Dame the previous year. 
H1wenge proved more potent than pride. The Boilermakers upset the seV!mth-ranked Irish 23-21 be­
hind the arm of an unexperi­enced junior quarterback named Jim Everett. The loss proved especially costly for Faust, who was later bom­barded by his critics. 
"Anybody who loses with those guys has got to be nuts," said a Purdue assistant coach to an elevator full of reporters aftpr the game. 
"Those guys" (epresented the seventeen starters that re­turned from the 1983 squad, including 10 offensive re­turnees. The Irish had more size, more speed, more depth. 
Yet, mental mistakes-two fumbles, three interceptions and six penalties-virtually gave the game to Purdue, a 
team which was picked to finish in the Big Ten basement. 
The Boilermakers took a 3-0 lead after a jittery freshman split end named Tim Brown fumbled the opening kickoff, allowing Purdue's Mike Rendina to convert his first of three field goals, The future Heisman award winner was pulled from the kickoff return team for the rest of the game. 
But at the end of the first quarter, the Irish went up 14-3 and seemed in total control of the game. Quarterback Steve Buerlein and tailback Allen Pinkett helped Notre Dame drive 77 and 70 yards for touchdowns on its first twQ_ possessions. Then the bottom fell out. 
Purdue scored the next 20 points and forced the Irish to play catch-up. 
Leon Burtnett's new Ace for­mation offense-an early rendi­tion of the run-n-shoot-was very successful against the physical Irish defense. The Ace, which features three wide re­ceivers, a tight end and a single running back, opened up Ev­erett's aerial attack. Everett's final stats: 20 of 28 for 255 yards and two touchdowns. 
Everett, who was battling a freshman redshirt for the starting spot up until game time, hit Jeff Price with a seven-yard touchdown pass early in the second period to cut the deficit to four. After a Buerlein interception, Rendina booted an 18-yard field goal as the first half expired to make it 14-13, Notre Dame. 
In the third period. Notre Dame looked to increase its lead with a second-and-goal from the six-yard line, but an­other costly turnover nixed the drive. Fullback Mark Brooks lost the ball on his way to the goal line and the opportunistic Purdue defense recovered. 
Everett turned this Irish turnover into another Rendina field goal, as the Boilermakers enjoyed their first lead, 16-14. 
see TIME page 4 ' 
P 
TAILBACK 
12 Ricky Watters 

IRISH OFFENSE 5 Rodney Culver 
· FULLBACK
P 
22 Anthony Johnson 
FLANKER 
35 Ryan Mihalko SPLITEND
25 Raghib Ismail 8 Steve Belles 

13 Pat Eilers QUARTERBACK 83 Tony Smith TIGHT END TACKLE (ffi'1 9 Tony Rice TACKLE n 86 Derek Brown 64 Mike Brennan ~ 3 Rrck Mrrer 71 Dean Brown ~ 
88 '""'P..?.-P:2.p 2~ AI"" 
52 Tim Ryan 55 Mike Heldt 75 Tim Grunhard 61 Tom Gorman 76 Gene McGuire 74 Mirko Jurkovic 
TACKLE TACKLE 
BOILERMAKER 
TAILBACK 
33 Tony Vinson 34 Earl Coleman 

BOILERMAKER OFFENSE 
FULLBACK 

..32 Jerome Sparkman FLANKER 44 Don Delvy SPLITEND
p 

88 Calvin Williams QUARTERBACK 1 0 Robert Oglesby 81 Rod Dennis ~ 14 Steve Letnich 86 Kipp Koonce .. TACKLE 6Jeff Lesniewicz ..
F F
79 Bill Hrtchcock 

TIGHT EHD .. 
':i;'';; .. .. ..~= B'Oom•o 
84 Dwayne O'Conner F F F F F 75 Jim Wormsley 85 Andy Ozlowski GUARD CENTER GUARD 59 Jason Cegielski 50 Bob Dressel 64 Derick Schmidt 70 Pete Trinidad 62 Nick Mamula 67 Scott Conover 
........ 

40 Jeff Zgonina 72 Kris Burns 
DEFENSE
90 Lonnie Palelei 94 Ken Kushner 98 John Sikora 
DEFENSIVE END DEFENSIVE END 
99 Peyton Minter _.aJ 
93 Dennis Dotson 73 Frank Kmet 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKER~ 

48 Jim Schwantz • • OUTSIDE LINEBACKER 46 Kevin StricklandA A 58 Keith Mooney 
57 Tom McNeil  
MIDDLE LINEBACKER  
55 Darrin Trieb  ~  

NOSE TACKLE 

IRISH DEFENSE 
50 Chris Zorich TACKLE 99 Troy Ridgley TACKLE 93 Bob Dahl 90 Jeff Aim 
DEFENSIVE END 
37 Scott Kowalkowski 7 Andre Jones 
"d-d d ~ d'"'fi:~~~ 
INSIDE LINEBACKER INSIDE LIN!=BACKER M.
36 Donn Gnmm 47 Ned Bolcar 
-

89 Karl McGill -48 Michael Smalls 
CORNERBACK 47 Eric Beatty 
CORNERBACK
1 Steve Jackson ~ ~ 2 Derrick Kelson 
26 Julian Wagner FREE SAFETY U STRONG SAFETY 
3 Jarrett Scales 11 Terry Johnson 27 Sean Washington 17 Nat Martin 28 Rick Smith 
CORNERBACK 

1 Todd Ly~Jht 21 Rod Smrth CORNERBACK
M A 
FREE SAFETY . ~ STRONG SAFETY 29 Stan Smagala
-~­

15PatTerrell .--~' 32 D'Juan Francisco 19 Shawn Davis 27 George Poorman 26 Greg Davis 
-------------=--·--=--==.--~ 
IRISH EXTRA 
Friday. September 29, 1989 
IRISH  STATS  BOILERMAKERS STATS  
TEAM  STATISTICS  NO  OPP  Brooks  2  4  2.0  0  4  TEAM  STATISTICS  PUR  OPP  PASSING  C  A  % YOS  TO  INT  LG  
TOTAl OFFENSE Total Plays  1043 202  778 196  Mirer NO  2 166  -3 770  -1.5 4.6  0 8  0 53  TOTAL OFFENSE  565  744  Letnich PUR  36 36  76 76  .474 .474  452 452  2 ·2  2 N/A 2 N/A  
Yards per Play  5.2  4.0  Opponents  115  305  2.7  0  36  Total Plays  146  148  
Yards per Game  347.7  259.3  Yards per Play  3.87  5.03  
PENAL TIES-YAROS  13-126  17-128  PASSING  C  A  %YOS  TO  INT  LG  Yards per Game  282.5  372.0  
FUMBLE5-LOST TOTAL FIRST DOWNS  4-3 55  4-1 48  Rice Mirer  16 2  28 7  .571 243 .286 30  1 0  2 1  52 18  PENAL TIES-YARDS FUMBLES-LOST  16-114 2-2  14/147 3-0  RECEIVING Williams  NO 14  YOS AVG 198 14.1  TO 1  LG 26  
By Rushing By Passing By Penalty  41 12 2  18 24 6  Graham 0 NO 18 Opponents 51  1 36 81  .000 .500 .630  0 273 473  0 1 6  0 3 5  0 52 30  TOTAL FIRST DOWNS By Rushing By Passing  32 8 20  37 15 17  O'Connor Sparkman Vinson  7 5 4  89 28 46  12.7 5.6 11.5  1 0 0  16 15 17  
THIRD OOWNS-CONV. %  20-42 ..476  17-46 .370  RECEIVING  NO  YOS  AVG  TO  LG  By Penalty THIRD OOWNS-CONV.  4 37-13  5 31-12  Koonce Coleman  2 1  29 46  14.5 46.0  0 0  15 46  
POSSESSION TIME Per Game  93:49 31 :16  85:11 28:44  Ismail Watters  7 3  148 21.1 52 17.3  0 0  52 30  % POSSESSION TIME  .351 59:32  .387 60:28  Ozlowski Harris  1 1  7 7  7.0 7.0  0 0  7 7  
Johnson  4  27  6.8  1  14  Per Game  29:46  30:14  Oglesby  1  2  2.0  0  2  
SCORING  TO  A  P  Ret  PA  FG  TP  Smith  1  18  18.0  0  18  PUR  36  452 5.95  2  46  
Johnson  4  3  1  0  0-0  0-0  24  Brown  1  3  3.0  0  3  
Watters 3 Hentrich 0 Ismail 2 Culver 1 Rice 1 Hackett 0 NO 11 Opponents 6 RUSHING NO Rice 40 Johnson 49 Watters 33 Culver 19 Ismail 11 Eilers 3 Mihalko 2 Setzer 3 Graham 1  3 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 8 1 0 6 YDS 227 197 174 100 48 13 10 8 5  0 0-0 0-0 18 0 8-8 2-5 14 2 0-0 0-0 6 0 0-0 0-0 6 0 0-1 0-0 6 0 1-2 0-0 1 2 9-102-5 81 0 3-6 2-2 45 AVG TO LG 5.7 1 24 3. 7 3 23 5.3 3 53 5.6 1 15 4.4 0 7 4.3 0 8 5.0 0 5 2.7 0 4 5.0 0 5  NO Opponents DEFENSE Bolcar Grimm Zorich Aim Francisco McDonald Dahl Kowalkowski Smagala Terrell Lyght A. Jones Flannery Ridgley Smalls  18 273 15.2 1 51 473 9.3 6 TACKLES SOLO A TOT.SACK 24 12 36 2/21 1 5 19 34 0 12 16 28 0 9 17 26 1/4 12 7 19 0 5 12 17 3.5/11 6 10 16 1.5/8 6 10 16 1.5/8 7 5 12 0 7 5 12 0 6 5 11 0 6 4 10 1/8 3 6 9 .5/3 3 1 4 0 1 1 2 0  52 30 INT. 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 0  SCORING Sullivan Davisson Letnich Williams O'Connor PUR RUSHING Sparkman Vinson Letnich Coleman Delvy Hunter Lesniewicz PUR  TO 0 1 1 1 1 4 NO 31 12 1 9 3 3 1 3 70  A P 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 1 1 2 YOS 8 8 1 7 11 6 0 -1 -8 113  Ret PA 0 4-4 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 4-4 AVG 2.8 1.4 0.6 2.0 0.0 -1.0 -2.7 1.6  FG 2-3 0 0 0 0 2-3 TO 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1  TP 10 6 6 6 6 36 LG 8 9 12 7 1 -1 7 12  DEFENSE Trieb Scales Johnson Dotson Sikora Mooney Jackson Zgonina Kelson Schwantz Smith  TACKLES SOLO A TOT.SACK 16 8 24 1/5 13 9 22 1/7 13 4 17 0 11 2 13 1/5 10 1 11 0 7 3 10 0 9 0 9 0 4 4 8 0 7 0 7 0 5 2 7 0 5 2 7 0  INT. 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0  

Titne Gatne 
continued from page 3 a bb-yard scoring drive. Pink­a double screen. He looked continued from page 2 pass defense," said Holtz. ett, who could only muster 69 right to Pinkett but a Purdue "We're maybe putting too much
Early in the fourth quarter, yards on 22 carries against defensive back had him linebaeking corps of Ned pressun~ on our defensive
Everett to(')k advantage of a 

Purdue, streaked in from the wrapped up. He quickly turned Bolcar and Donn Grimm. backs. porous Irish defense with some six-yard line to make it 23-21. and threw the ball to the leftlong roll-out pass completions. 
After the defense held strong, instead, directly into the hands Bolear leads the Irish with 36 "The one thing you don'tThe Boy Wonder capped an 88-Buerlein's troops got the ball 
of Purdue tackle Dan Baldwin tackles, followed by Grimm want to do is panic. It isn't ayard scoring drive with another back on the Notre Dame 44­who returned it 11 yards. with 34. Zorich has 28 tackles ease whern we'rn not playingtouchdown lob to Price that yard line with 2:32 remaining. 
and is emerging as the best in well. They (oth!~r teams) an)gave Purdue a 23-14 advantage. All the Irish had to do was put Ironically, the Boilers had 12 the country at his position. just executing awfully well." the ball in good field goal posi­players on the field during the Two possessions later, Notre tion to salvage the victory. But play but the officials didn't Notre Dame has allowed an Purdue kicker Larry Sullivan Dame put together its final it was not to be. catch it. average of 157.7 passing yards is 2-of-3 on field goals and 
...--scoring drive. Buerlein, who Even though he dropped the per game, and the pass defense perfect on extra points so far finished with a modest 13-of-20 There was a noise problem in opener, Faust went on to enjoy has looked particularly vulner­this year. Notre Dame could passing for 233 yards, used a relaying a call from from the his most productive season, able in its last two games. have either Jim Sexton or Craig barrage of passes to Brown coaches above to the field, so finishing 7-4 and an Aloha llentrich handling the punting and tight end Mark Bavaro for Buerlein opened the drive with Bowl victory over SMU. ''I'm concerned about our chores Saturday. 
DEPTH CHARTS 

NOTRE DAME OFFENSE  NOTRE DAME DEFENSE  PURDUE DEFENSE  PURDUE OFFENSE  
SE  13  Pat Ellers  5-11  193  Sr.  RE  45  Devon McDonald  6-3  228  So.  LE  98  John Sikora  6-1  225  So.  SE  10  Robert Oglesby  5-7  164  Sr.  
83  Tony Sm1th  6-2  187  So.  85  Eric Simien  6-3  225  Fr.  99  Peyton Minter  6-5  260  So.  86  K1pp Koonce  5·11  170  Jr.  
ar  64  Mike Brennan  6-5  260  Sr.  LT  93  Bob Dahl  6-5  263  ,)',  LT  40  JeiiZgonla  6-2  268  Fr.  LT  69  Bruce Brlnernan  6-6  280  So.  
53  Winston Sandri  6-4  275  Jr.  95  Junior Bryant  6·5  270  Fr.  90  Lonn1e Palele1  6-4  274  Fr.  75  Jim Wormsley  6·3  280  So.  
QG  52  Tim Ryan  6-4  259  .k.  NT  50  ChrlsZortch  6-1  268  .k.  Rr  72  KrisBruns  6-2  254  So .  LG  64  Derick Schmidt  6-4  260  So.  
61  Tom Gorman  6·6  265  Sr.  99  Troy Ridgley  6-4  250  So.  94  Ken Kushner  6·5  265  Sr.  67  Scott Conover  6·4  264  Jr.  
c  55  Mike Heldt  6-4  265  .k.  Rr  90  Jell Am  6-7  270  Sr.  RE  93  Dennis Dotson  6-5  240  Sr.  c  50  Bob Dressel  6-4  270  So.  
76  Gene McGu~re  6·5  259  So.  82  Bryan Flannery  6-3  253  Sr.  73  Frank Kmet  6-4  265  So.  62  N1ck Mamula  6·4  251  Fr.  
TG  75  nmGrunhard  6-3  292  Sr.  DE  37  Scott Kowalkowski  6-2  226  .k.  SLB  58  Keith Mooney  6-3  220  So.  Ri  59  Jason Cegielski  6-1  265  ....  
74  Mirko Jurt<ovic  6-5  279  So.  7  Andre Jones  6·4  215  Jr.  57  Tim McNeil  6·2  225  Jr.  70  Pete Tnmdad  6-2  284  So.  
TT  71  Dean Brown  6-3  291  Sr.  ELS  36  Donn Grimm  6-2  231  .k.  P4..B  55  Darrin Trleb  6-2  228  .k.  Rr  79  Bill H"chcock  6-6  305  Sr.  
72  Joe Allen  6·4  288  Jr.  89  Karl McGill  6·3  230  Fr.  47  Eric Beatty  6-0  225  Fr.  66  Randy Taylor  6·6  270  So.  
'IE  85  Derek Brown  6-7  235  So.  P4..B  47  NedBolcar  6-2  229  Sr.  Wl.B  48  Jim Schwantz  6-2  251  So.  'IE  84  Dwayne O'Connor  6-4  240  Sr.  
88  Frank Jacobs  6·5  234  Jr.  48  Michael Smalls  6-3  223  So.  46  Kevin Strickland  6-2  210  Fr.  85  Andy Ozlowsk1  6·6  225  Fr.  
(JI  9  Tony Rice  6-1  200  Sr.  FCB  1  ToddLyght  6-1  181  So.  LCB  1  Steve Jackson  5-9  180  ....  (JI  14  Steve Letnlch  6-0  190  .k.  
3  Rick Mirer  6-3  205  Fr.  21  Rod Smith  6·1  183  So.  26  Julian Wagner  5·11  170  So.  6  Jell Lesn1ew1cz  6·0  195  Fr.  
Rl  22  Anthony Johnson  6-0  220  Sr.  SCB  29  Stan Smagala  5-11  186  Sr.  ss  11  Terry Johnson  6-1  207  ....  B  32  Jerome Sparl<man  6-2  215  ....  
35  Ryan M1halko  6-2  234  Jr.  19  Shawn Davis  6-0  181  So.  . 28  R1ck Smith  5·9  190  So.  44  Don Delvy  6-1  220  Fr.  
1B R. K  12 5 25 8 18  Ricky Watters Rodney Culver Raghlb Ismail Steve Belles Billy Hadcett  6-2 6·0 5-10 6·4 6-1  199 219 175 217 194  .k. So. So. Sr. .k.  55 FS  32 26 15 27  D'Juan Francisco Greg Davis Pat Terrell George Poorman  5-11 6-1 6-0 6·2  182 198 195 191  Sr. Jr. Sr. So.  FS FIC8  3 17 2 27  Jarrett Scales Nat Mattin Derrick Kelson Sean Washington  5-10 6-2 6-1 5-10  195 207 190 172  .k. Jr. ~r. Fr.  A R. K  33 34 88 81 4  Tony Vinson Earl Coleman Calvin Williams Rod Denn1s Larry Sutllvan  6-2 5·8 6-0 6·0 6-1  199 190 195 185 182  Fr . Fr. Sr. Fr. So.  
28  Craig Hentrtch  6-1  175  Fr.  8  Steve Wambold  6·0  195  Jr.  
p  16  Jim Sexton  6-0  183  .t.  
28  Craig Hentrtch  6-1  175  Fr.  
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS  

Each week, The Observer sports staff, a random student picked by the sports department and some well-known figure in the Notre Dame community predict 
·D't'­

the outcomes of the week's ma­
"' ._.

jor college football games. .:. Records are compiled as to how 
Greg Guffey Steve Megargee Molly Mahoney HeMherA~
each person does against the Theresa Kelly Jeff Jeffers Sara Mantel 
Assistant Associate Assistant
spread. In other words, it isn't SMC Sports Editor Guest Celebrity Random Student 
Sports Editor Sports Editor Sports Editor Sports Editor 13-15 13-15 16-12enough to pick the winner of a 17-11 16-12 16-12 16-12 .464 .464 .571
given game. The person must .607 .571 .571 .571
pick the winner and give the un­Last week: Last week: Last week: 
Last week: Last week: Last Week: Last week:
derdog points. 5-9 5-9 4-10
7-7 5-9 6-8 5-9 WEST VIRGINIA 3 over Pittsburgh Mountaineers Panthers Panthers Mountaineer& Panthers Mountaineers Mountaineers GEORGIA 9 over S. Carolina Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs
-MICHIGAN 21 over Maryland Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Terrapins Terrapins Wolverines Wolverines Oklahoma 38_5 over KANSAS Jayhawks Jayhawks Sooners Jayhawks Sooners Jayhawks Jayhawks Air Force 8 over COLORADO ST. Falcons Falcons Falcons Falcons Falcons Falcons Falcons Miami (Fl.) 21.5 over MICHIGAN ST. Spartans Spartans Spartans Spartans Hurricanes Spartans Spartans N_CAROLINA 8 over Navy Midshipmen Tar Heels Midshipmen Tar Heels Tar Heels Midshipmen Tar Heels Colorado even at W ..\SHINGTON Huskies Buffaloes Buffaloes Huskies Buffaloes Huskies Buffaloes s_ Cal9 over WASHINGTON ST_ Trojans Cougars Trojans Trojans Trojans Trojans Cougars HOUSTON 41 over Temple Owls Cougars Cougars Owls Owls Owls Cougars Penn St even at TEXAS Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Longhorns Nittany Lions Longhorns Longhorns Nittany Lions 


TCU 30 over S. Methodist  Mustangs  Horned Frogs  Horned Frogs  Horned Frogs  Horned Frogs  Mustangs  Mustangs  
ARIZONA ST. 4.5 over Missouri  Sun Devils  Sun Devils  Tigers  Sun Devils  Sun Devils  Sun Devils  Sun Devils  
Notre Dame 31 over PURDUE  Boilermakers  Irish  Irish  Irish  Irish  Irish  Irish  

page 11 
: 


D roadtrippers head for Purdue 
c 0 F G 
To Center for Information and Numerical Da\a 

A guide to the best food and 
Analysis and Synthes1~. see inset below 

spirits in Boilermaker territory 
STEPHANIE SNYDER the area include Harry's Bar Ceaser's (945 Sagamore Park-accent writer (The Chocolate Shop) on 329 way West.) These well-known 
lo '"' 
West State Street, Edo's on 125 haunts, can be found along 
Planning a trip to Purdue? A Pierce Street, and Pete's Place with some local hangouts, such bit unsure what kind of dining on 200 Northwestern Avenue. as Venn's (in Purdue West and nightlife the town of West Lafayette also offers its own Shopping Center), Snappy Lafayette has to otTer? Then group of bars including Tomato Pizza (327 Northwest-
e Stadium 
you may want to cut this out Jeremiah Sweeney's and Chi-ern) and Garcia's Pan Pizza (in ( .~~ and take it with you. Chi's, both located on State Chauncey Hill Mall). What bars should you wait in Road 26 East. Checkerboard,
·."'-~;, "" 
line for? Where's a new and in­on 1521 Kossuth, serves steak If you still want a quick bite . I ·t teresting place to eat? (Or and seafood and provides a DJ and you've eaten enough pizza 
;··... 
"'-" TQwet'~~,. where can you find good chow for a wild night of dancing. If to last the semester, try Roley's (··... r for low prices?) Read on. it's a light breakfast, lunch, or Hot Dog Shop on 105 N. dinner you desire, C.W. Dandy's Chauncey, Schoops Hamburgers 
Purdue's campus is located in Hestaurant and Lounge in Chauncey Hill Mall or Sub­West Lafayette, Indiana. (another word for bar) is the way Sandwiches and Salads on Lafayette lies to the east of the place to go. C.W. Dandy's can 113 Northwestern Avenue. campus and is separated from be found on 400 Sagamore Finally, those of you who are West Lafayette by the Wabash Parkway South. Lastly, prone to the munchies after a River. Since the two towns are Sargeant Preston's offers a night at the bars, you are not so close, favorite spots to drink basic menu of deli sandwiches, out of luck. Lafayette houses a and dine can be found through­soup and salad, burgers and Bob Evens (Interstate 65 and out both. steaks (as well as beer). State Rd. 26 East), a Denny's 
For a change from an ordi­(4260 State Road 26 East), a 
nary night at Bridget's, the If you want seafood or steak, Steak' n Shake (2 Sagamore Commons, or CJ's, try visiting but your wallet says no, West Parkway North), and a Waffle Macaw's Bar & Grill. Macaw's Lafayette advertises a few re­House (Interstate 65 and State serves lunch and dinner and is saurants with prices within the Road 26 East). All are open 24 open for dancing until 3 a.m. 'college budget.' The list in­hours a day. Fridays and Saturdays. It is lo­cludes Ponderosa and Sizzler cated on 202 S. River Rd. in Steak Seafood Salad, both lo­
West Lafayette. Quincey's Spir­cated on Sagamore Parkway Whatever you may desire, you its & Friends is another popu­South and Red Lobster, located should be able to find it close to lar spot in West Lafayette. on Sagamore Parkway North. the campus of Purdue. (And if Quincy's situated in Chauncey West Lafayette also offers you can't find it there, don't Hill Mall on State and Chauncey some of your favorite pizza come back to South Bend to Streets, is a great place to grab joints. Pizza Hut (132 Howard look for it!) So, when you go to appetizers and sandwiches for Ave.), Noble Roman's support our team, eat, drink lunch or dinner. (Tippecanoe Mall, Sagamore (soda pop, of course), and be 

~~::~~~~~[f===SJ==~~=:JJ~~~~~~~=~~!;i Some other bar 'hot spots' in Parkway South) and Little merry. Map courtesy of the Purdue Visitor Information Center. 
om the road 

Friday evening, 5 p.m. With two people in the cab and eight of us in the back (equipped with mattresses, a boom box, plenty of tapes and beverages) the U­llaul rolled out of South Bend for what was supposed to be a two and a half hour drive. A small bulb on the ceiling of the van was our only source of light. Those of us in the back had no idea where we were, ex­cept when the van stopped for pit stops. 
Then we reached Logansport, IN. The van suddenly stopped, and the two guys who were up front informed us that our U­llaul had broken down. We tried to push the U-IIaul to a service station. but we gave that up quickly. Finally we de­up to the van, and the familiar crackle of voices over a police radio. We knew we were in for it now-the cops had stopped to see if our friends were in need of help, and it was only a matter of time before they dis­covered the hidden cargo. 
Surprisingly, the next sound we heard was that of the cops driving away. Our friends had informed the officers that help was already on the way. A few minutes later, a wrecker and his wife stopped by and fixed the U-Haul. We were home free. 
That is until one of the more inebriated passengers in the back of the van started pound­ing on the walls. "Hey! I think they're tryin' to signal us out there!" he hollered. The only two of them-let's take 'em on!" 
The cops arrived shortly and made all of us get out of the back of the van. Their next question was "How many of you are minors?" Timidly, we raised our hands. Then thev told us to take out any alcohol that was in the van. 
Two cops, ten kids, several cases of beer, and aU-Haul van stopped at the curb. This was a bit out of the ordinary for the sleepy town of Logansport, IN. The cops told us they would keep the beer until we returned with someone who was 21, and then it would be returned to us. They let us off with a warning (and told us they hoped Notre Dame would kick Purdue's­Luckily, there was a house next to the highway. The owner was kind enough to fix our van and asked us where we were from. When we told him we were from South Bend, he replied, "Oh yeah! I did time with some­one from South Bend." 
After the van was fixed, we continued for a few more miles, and then I started to smell fumes in the back of the van. The engine made a series of loud banging noises, then the van came to a halt on the bridge over the Wabash river. 
Enough was enough. One of my friends and I decided to hitchhike the rest of the way to Purdue. I had the address of a friend from high school who lived there and I figured that he would be able to pu.t us up for the night. The two of us walked along the highway until we reached a Taco Bell. 
Luckily we came across a fel­low Domer in the parking lot who offered to drive us to my friend's dorm. Almost six hours after we left South Bend, we fi­nally reached Purdue. I had hoped to find a women's dorm to stay in, but I settled for the floor of my friend's room. 
So ended the saga or our Purdue roadtrip. incidentally, I was the only person who didn't take the U-Haul back to South Bend. After the game, I walked amongst the tailgaters and was offered a ride home by a very nice family with a Winnebago. 
cided to keep three people by the van in order to flag down help, while the rest of us would hide in the alleyways of Lo­gansport. Forty-five minutes later, our friends signaled us from half a block away that the U-llaul was fixed and we were ready to go. 
It was night, and in order to divert suspicion we turned off the only light inside the van. In the darkness, we felt the van turn the corner, then lurch to a halt. We had broken down twice within ten yards. 
We waited inside of the van in silence, while the two members of our group who were up front tried to fix the van. We could hear the sound of a car pulling wrecker heard the pounding from inside of the van and de­manded that our two lookouts open the door. The eight of us froze as the light from the streetlights flooded the dark­ness of the van's interior. 
The wrecker looked at our terror stricken faces. ''I'm call· ing the cops." he said. 
As the wrecker went off to phone the police, panic set in. We all had different sugges­tions: 
"Let's pay him off so he won't call the cops!" (This was my suggestion.) 
"Let's pretend we're townies and call a cab." 
"Let's book outta here!" 
"Hey, there's ten of us and you know what) and made us leave the back door partially open so we wouldn't suffocate. 
The opening allowed us some light as we drove out of Lo­gansport and closer to Purdue. We rested peacefully in the back of the van for a few miles until the door flew open all the way on the highway. The driver of the pickup directly behind us must have gotten the shock of his life when he saw eight peo­ple in the back of the van. 
We pulled of and decided to keep the door shut tight-we decided it might be better to risk suffocation than to fall out of the U-Haul. As we ap­proached Tippecanoe county, the van broke down again. 
Attention roadtrippers 
Do you have a roadtrip story that is out of the ordinary? Don't keep it to yourself, share it with the rest of us through the Observer. Submit a well-written, typed story to the Accent Department of the Observer on the third floor of LaFortune. The Observer reserves the right to edit any story. Contact Robyn Simmons at 239-7471 if there are any 
.•~1!. 

questions. '·" 
-~--~--~-l 
Have no fear, Griffin and O'Gill are here 
My cocker spaniel, Darby 0' Gill II, and I have been walking around this campus for years, often in the hours after mid­night. Last week, at 1:30 a.m., I saw a lone woman running across the grass to B.P. I don't  years. I served as the Toots Shor of Darby's Place, in the basement of LaFortune, from midnight to 5 a.m., Sunday through Thursday. The idea behind Darby's Place was to provide a haven for the night- I'm offering my body, and that of my beastie, as hostages to the dark, simply as a way of shaming the younger men into serving as good Samaritans, or if you think I'm trying to be­eome the brains of an escort operation, running like a dating  just phone; we're in the direc­tory. I would like to publish the number here, however, personal phone numbers, printed in a newspaper-like phone numbers written as graffiti in a lavatory wall-ean attract the attention of lonely people who  decide it's a great idea whose time has come. Then Monk will appoint a committee to look into the matter, and after that it will be elevated into a program supported by an endowment fund, with a couple of nuns holding M.Div. degrees  
Father Robert Griffin  service, sending these good neighbor Sams in all directions  are up to no good. Why should I make it easy for them to  in charge. I will be able to go to bed at night with great peaee of  
carrying memo pads, printed  waste my time? I want to warn  mind, like a stud on a  
Letters to a Lonely God  with the slogan, "You have nothing to fear but fear itself,"  you in advance, I don't have a car, so all I'm promising you is,  retirement farm; lulled to sleep by my favorite hymn, "You  

 on which are scribbled the  "Have dog. Will travel," but  Never Walk Alone."  
was a jogger, or just in a hurry. Since I wasn't  'Yea though I walk  name, place, and time of the pickup requested-if this is the  never on Sunday, into crime­ridden neighborhoods, or  Am I going out rather far on the limb? Indeed I am, and the  
wearing my dog-collar, though Darby was wearing his, I won­dered if she thought the pair of  through the valley of the shadow of death,  elaborate game you think I'm playing, let me assure you, friends, that nothing could be  aeross Dixie Highway, except in an cmergeney. I mean, the tail would be wagging the dog,  nervous butt1~rflies lluttl~ring in my stomach prove it. I realize that if I'm steadfast in keeping  
us looked dangerous, ready to attack her. I hope that she knew that I'm a kindly old  I will fear no evil... Griff is with me... '  further from the truth. Darby and I will be on call beeausc we need the exercise as well as the  wouldn't it, if' I started crying on your shoulder, telling you I was afraid, begging you to  the nightwateh, eorne hell or high water, I may not survive the winter. Then I look at  
..  priest, and that Darby is a gentle animal. As I was mulling this over, inspiration struck me like a bolt of lightning. Why  people who needed a dean, well-lighted place ( as in Hem­ingway's short story), at a time before the dorms had 24-hour  fresh air. Please don't ask us to walk too fast, that's all. I'm too overweight to light or run, and I may whimper a bit, if I smell  light off muggers? You're wondering, "Why are you doing this, Griffin?" Can you think of a better way took  Darby ()'Gill, and he looks at me. Each of us knows that with the help of the other, we can try anything onw, if it's for God,  
shouldn't ()'Gill and I volunteer as a team, offering an escort service to Notre Dame women out after dark. afraid to walk by themselves? I don't have a black belt in karate or any­thing, and my dog isn't trained to be vicious, but we could hold off an attacker, while the in­tended victim ran for help. Later, when the danger had passed, I could offer a little drink of something authorita­tive to the intended victim, to settle her nerves. Darby O'Gill could wear a cask strapped to his neck like a St. Bernard on duty in the Alpine passes. " Is this a joke?" you're probably wondering. I'm some­times laughed at, as a joker who serves as the university ehaplain but, I was night minis­ter to the campus for many  lounges. The University Min­istry offers a great number of specialized services to the stu­dents. As a generalist in min­istry, I'm always looking for ways to minister to the periph­ery. That is, to make myself available. in helpful ways that no one else has thought of, to people with special needs, who might otherwise get left out in the cold. Keeping the night wateh regularly as a peri­patetic, instead if as a couch­potato hidden in the bowels of the student center, strikes Darby and me as an interest­ing, though chilly, new aposto­late. Maybe, when the snow gets deep, some of the Stan­fordites from the dorm where I live will volunteer to help us when the traffic is heavy. If you think, however, that  danger. Darby's too innocent to be afraid, though he sometimes barks at shadows, or at strangers who ride by in golf­carts. On an October night, when there's a bombers' moon in the sky, I think you'll enjoy having us as bodyguards who can chat wittily on literature and theology, hum tunes from the Big Band era . and tell jokes using the Irish brogue. Or we could pray together, " Yea though I walk through the val­ley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil because Griff is with me ... " Nevertheless, it wouldn't hurt to carry your own ean of Mace, as a protec­tion against things that go bump in the night, though I'm sure you'll lind us safe, courte­ous, and reliable. If you need Darby and me.  make new friends? Haven't you heard that it is better to light a candle than to curse the dark­ness? You ean get even lovelier light from a candle that's burning at both ends. When I'm timd. I may look half-lit, but that's because on earth, you can only sec things dimly, as though through a veil. Am I too old, do you think, to be organizing an overnight walkathon? As the Giving Tree said to the Boy at the end of the story, "An old stump is good for something." If an old stump ean be useful, just by being there, so can I. You may want to know, "llow long do you think you ean keep it up?" For at least 15 minutes, which is as long as any of us are allowed to be famous. By that time, the powers-that-be may  country , or Notre Dame. A journey of' a thousand miles be­gins with a single st1~p. If' we take this journey into darkness one day at a time, we'll get through the bitter season as ef­fortlessly as though it were the Children's I lour. Hnmember Longfellow's poem with that name beginning, "Between the dark and the daylight, /When the night is bnginning to lower,/Cornes a pause in the day's oeeupation,fl'hat is known as the Childrnn's I lour?" The Lady on the Dome will be our night-light. So, if you need an escort, let your fingers do the walking until you find the phone numbPr of a padrn and his wondnr-pup, servants of the Lonely God, in waiting to become pipers at the gates of' dawn.  



DART IS COMING! 
Direct Access Registration by Telephone 
This fall, all students except Freshmen, will register for classes using DART. Find out how DART works. A video introducing DART will be shown in the Engineering Auditorium at the following times: 
DATE 7:30 ~.m. 8:15p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9/25 Faculty, advisors AL Seniors AL Seniors .-chairs, deans, etc. {A-L) (M-Z) 
9/26 BA Seniors BA Seniors sc Seniors (A-S) (T-Z) MBA EG Seniors 
9/27 Grad Students Grad Students Grad Students (A-G) (H-N) (0-Z) 
10/2 LAW LAW BA Juniors (A-R) (S-Z) (A-S) 
10/3 AL Juniors AL Juniors BAJuniors (A-L) (M-Z) (T-Z) EG Juniors 
10/9 SC Juniors AL Sophs AL Sophs (A-L) (M-Z) 
10/10 Faculty, advisors BA Sophs SC Sophs chairs, deans, etc. (A-S) BA Sophs (T-Z) 
10/11 EG Sophs Open to All Open to All 
If you've missed the meeting scheduled for your class, you are welcome to attend one of the later ones. 
The Observer accepts cl<=~sstheds every bus1ness day from 10 a ·n :u ~ 30 p m a1 lht: Notrr, Dame office. 314 LaFonune. and tram 12.30 to 3 p rn at the ':>;mol l·.-1ary s ofliw Haggar College Center. Deadltne for next-day class11ieds IS·; iJ rn All r.l~ssiloeds must b•; 
prepaid. The charge IS 2 cents per character per day. tnclud•ng spar.Hs 
Classifieds 
NOTICES  LOST: MINOLTA35mmcamera with telephoto lens. Last had at Senior Bar or surrounding area  TICKETS  NeeD ride to Purdue. Lv. Fri., ret. Sat. Sean *2298  I have one extra So Cal ticket, will trade for one Pitt ticket.Call evening or leave message: (312)  Hi Jeff CP, Ag  
TYPING Pickup & Delivery 277-7406 PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard  on night of Fri., 9/22. $Reward$ if found. Please call Molly at X4985.I WANTED  Travel Tour Operator needs tickets for all N.D. games-home and away, especially MSU, USC and Miami. Premium price paid. Immediate case available. Will  STANFORD TIX: need 2-4, call x2532 & leave message NEED GAS FOR PITT,  784-8182 I need 4 Ga tix DESPERATELY to any home game!! (312) 869­7677:Peter  MIAMI FLIGHTS • MIAMI FLIGHTS Round-trip airfares to Miami or Fort Lauderdale. Depart Nov. 22  
3 blks. from ND campus 233-2342  trade for all major sporting events  NAVY & SMU $$$$  from Midway (Chicago); return  
$$$FOR YOUR BOOKS  Need a babysitter in my home for  including Final 4, Indy 500 and  CALL TOM & MARTY  NEED up to 6 USC GAs.$ no  Nov. 27 to Midway (Chi.).  
WE BUY AND SELL USED  two children 6 and 3 years old  bowl game, etc. Will also buy  X 3185  problem. Jim x1236  $239 for students, $265 for others.  
TEXTBOOKS !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  (noon-5:30 daily M-F). References  season tickets. Please call Dave at  Tix sold on first-come, first-serve  
required, please call 255-3869  1-800-828-8955 today.  WANTED: 2 STD & 4 GA FOR  I NEED FOOTBALL TIX  basis, and are non-refundable.  
TYPING  after 5:30.  USC GAME WILL TOP ANY  WILLING TO PAY BIG BUCKS  Anthony Travel 1-800-7DOMERS  
JACKIE BOGGS  Desperate! Will give my first born  OFFER  BIG BUCKS$$$  FOR ANY GAME  PAT  
684-8793  HELP!!! I NEED 1-2 USC GA'S  or any $ for 2 USC GAs Chris B  CALL BRIAN *1 026 ANYTIME  X4289  JUNIORS  
FOR A CA LAWYER!! CALL x2529  #1484  NO PRICE TOO HIGH !!!!!!!!  Proofs From The  
LEGAL SECRETARY WILL DO TYPING/WORD PROCESSING.  NEW YORK NEW YORK NEW  H.......E.....L..... P  NEED 3 PITT GA TIX  I need two GA tix for Pitt or Navy. Call Bill X2008.  "lnfamous"Chicago Cruise Are On Sale In The Junior Class Office  
PICK UP & DELIVERY AVAILABLE.  YORK If u r headed to Albany,  NEED 2-4 GA'S (TOGETHER)  $$ CALL: 4272  From Tues. Thru Fri.  
CALL 255-1726.  NYC, or anywhere betw. the 2, I  FOR ANY GAME. WILL PAY BIG  I NEED 'EM!  Come See How Much Fun  
need a ride home for Oct. Break.  MOOLAH ($$). PLEASE CALL  WILL TRADE 1 USC STUD. TIX  2USCGA'S  You Actually Had !!!!  
Have you figured out...  Will share expenses and driving.  JEFF 277-3998.  FOR 1 PITT STUD TIX.  CALL  call Paula x4633  
Can leave and return  MIKE AT 277-5706  
..how you're going to do it? Huh? Have you? Any ideas? Alumni Senior Club Needs  whenever ... please call x3442 . ------------------------------------­NOW HIRING day and evening help.  HELP, THE WHOLE FAMILY IS COMING FOR USC, SO WE NEED LOTS. OF TICKETS. WILLING TO PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL JOHN OR ERIK AT 1622  PITT TIX for sale x1295 or x1294 HAVE TIX! will trade any 2 tix to any game for 2 USC GAs or studs  $$$$$$$$$$NEED$$$$$$$$$$ SMU and MIAMI GA'S TRADE FOR BLANK CHECK!!!!!! CALL JEFF AT 283-1504. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  If you're gay, lesbian, or bisexual, you are not alone. For someone to talk to, contact us. Gays & Lesbians at Notre Dame/ St. Mary's College  
STUDENT COMEDY call Bill 277-3653 or 239 7521  Call the International Submarine  I NEED 6 PITT TICKETS CALL 277-9281 OR X2760.  call3668 2 USC GA'S NEEDED. WILL PAY  LOVIN' OR MONEY-That's what I'll give to get my family  P.O. Box 194 Notre Dame, IN 46556  
RUMMAGE SALE !! SATURDAY SEPT. 30: 9am-3pm FIRST UNITARIAN CHURCH 101 E. NORTHSHORE DRIVE (INTERSECTION OF MICHIGAN)  277-3324 18109 State Rd. 23 ADOPTION: Loving couple dreaming of adopting white infant. LET'S HELP EACH OTHER!  WILL PAY $$$$$$$$$ Need two SMU tix please call 284­4930!!!!!!!!!! NEED SEVERAL PITT GA'S PLEASE!! #2819  BIG $$.callS. MARK 277-6087 Help! We need 2 GAs and 2 Stud. tix for NAVY!! Call x1278 Need USC studs. Have$ or a Pitt stud to trade.  tix for USC!!! I need 3 GA's. CALL CRAZY JEN @ 2272! Will trade two PITT GA's for 2 USC GA's; call Paul x3367 Need one USC student ticket;  TAKE A LOAD OFF! Rent a locker in Lafortune Student Center. Only $5 per year. Available through Lafortune Information Desk. Open 9am-9pm weekdays, Noon-9pm weekends.  
something for everyone ...  Legal/confidential. Expenses paid.  I NEED HELP. 3 GA and 2 Student  call x2107  call Julie x4914  
!TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. This Friday Anti-Apartheid Network vigil at 12:15 p.m. Every Friday Anti-Apartheid Network vigils at 12:15 p.m. Admim. building Private Math Tuition Call 271-9971 after 6 PM  Call Lillian and Ed collect ANYTIME (212) 645-4344 hiUt: l~t:t:Ut::U from Bridgeport -Hartford Ct to ND Friday Oct 27 after b area Call Chris at 4220. reak. ·-------------­I desperately need 1 Northwest voucher to go home for Break, please call Lisa at X2822.  tickets needed for the USC game. Call John at 2005 if you can help. Need many MIAMI tix. $ $ $ $ Barry 289-841 7. WANT TO TRADE (2) PURDUE OR (2) AF FOR PENN STATE, USC OR PITT TICKETS. 717-339­3901.  Need 4 GA's (will take 2 stud tix) for the Navy game. Aw come on, the folks are making the trek from ALASKA!! Eskimos are people too, so don'tletthem go home deprived of the Notre Dame Experience!! Willing to trade or pay$$$$$$!!!!! Mary x2822 WANTED: USC TIX BETWEEN THE 20 YD. LINES. WILL BUY OR  WILLING TO TRADE A PURDUE TICKET OR AN REM TICKET FOR USC STUD OR GA. CALL GINA X4853. ANY PITT GAs? Please call Mary at x4822! Very negotiable on price. $$NEED USC GA & STUD TIX$$$ $$$ Please call Cheri x2605 $$$  Spend a day in CHICAGO. Ride the WINDY CITY SHUTTLE. $10 round-trip bus fare. Tickets available at Information Desk, 1st Floor LaFortune. VALUE CHECK COUPON BOOKS are available at the Information Desk, 1st Floor Lafortune. ND FINANCE CLUB  
INSTRUCTORS NEEDED TO  NEED 4 NAVY GAs X3500-WATTS  EXCHANGE END ZONE SEATS+  NEED many USC Student Tickets,  FALL BREAK TRIP TO BOSTON  
National White Male Engineer  TEACH CHEERLEADING,  CASH OR TICKETS TO NAVY,  please call Megan 2518.  FINANCIAL DISTRICT. TRANSPO  
Soc1ety Meeting! Tonight!  DANCE, GYMNASTICS AT  NEED FOUR GA's TO NAVY!!!!!  PITT OR SMU. 800-323-7687.  AND ROOM INCLUDED  
SUMMER CAMP SITES. WORK  PLEASE CALL KARIN x1321 !!!  Have 2 USC Std Tckts and $$to  CALL BRIAN X1010 OR 4732  
THROUGHOUT THE YEAR  WE NEED USC STUDS. AND  trade for 4 NAVY GA's. Call277­ FOR DETAILS  
LOST/FOUND  POSSIBLE. WRITE NATION­WIDE CHEERLEADERS, 2275  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 2 SMU TICKETS-GA'S  GA'S. WILL PAY GOOD$$$. CALL BOB OR PAT AT X2313  9869.  FALL BREAK TRIP STILL A?  

 CANTERBURY OFFICES, RT. 422  PLEASE CALL 277-9281  WANTED: 3 TICKETS ND V. USC.  FINANCE CLUB IS GOING TO  
LOST  GOLD CLADDAGH RING  WEST, INDIANA, PA 15701. (412)  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  NEED USC TIX JOE 1714  GRAD OR G; CALL COLLECT,  BOSTON. VISITING FIRMS  
OUTSIDE O'SHAG. DIAMOND  349-2017.  606-273-3164, 8PM-1 OPM.  EXCITING TRIP.  
STONE  I need USC GA's. Will beat best  HelpII need one Pitt GA for my  CALL BRIAN X1010 OR 4732  
REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE  ATTENTION· HIRING!  offer. Ann x2830  Dad! Will trade one Navy SA  NAVYNAVYNAVYNAVYNAVY  FOR DETAILS  
CALL X2670 OR 277-9281 IF  Government jobs -your area.  and/or pay$!  I need 5 G.A.'s  
FOUND.  $17,840-$69,485. Call1-602-838­ NEED PITT TIX : 2 GA  1 STUD  Call Tallie X4813  or any1hing you have together  Notre Dame Hot Men Contest  
8885. EXT R 6262.  MUGHO DINERO • BOB Q x1409  NAME YOUR PRICE!!!!  runner up #3 Paul Godfrey  
LOST: MINOLTA FREEDOM  I am Rob. I need four GA's for the  Call Kyle-#3775  
ZOOM 90 CAMARA. LAST SEEN  ATTENTION: EARN MONEY  NEED GA TIX FOR ANY HOME  Navy game and you've got them.  Tiiiiina!  
IN MAIN CIRCLE. NOT INSURED.  READING BOOKS! $32,000/year  GAMES. CALL MATT 272-3491.  Call #1804 and I'll buy them.  LET'S MAKE A DEAL! Need 2  How are you?  
NOT PAID FOR. VERY, VERY  income potential. Details. (1) 602­ USC GA's. Will buy or deal with 2  
VALUABLE!!' CALL PETE AT  838-8885 Ext. Bk 6262.  PLEASE HELP!!  It is impossible to be in more dire  SMU GA's. Call Diane X3477.  Tony­ 
#1863 ANYTIME I $100.00  I desperately need an SMU  need of USC tickets. We need a  Are you going to be Kimona  
REWARD.  HELP! Need ride back to ND from  student of GA ticket!! Thanks!  couple students and plenty-o­ I need GAs to USC and PITT  Moaner's best friend this  
Purdue on Sunday! Call Gena at  Johanna at# 4456  GA's.  Call Dan at 271-9821  weekend?  
LOST: A Jaz watch w/ black leather band on Fri. Sep 22 at party at 817 ND Ave. if found please call Chris at x1 069, no questions asked! FOUND: Casio calculator on 9/26 5pm at C1 parking lot. Call Tony@ 272-4223 NEWS FLASH: Synth programmer I airhead has misplaced a tan plastic box of 3.5" floppies containing 3 disks: 2 blank and t lab led "Synth Disk". holding important documents. Would appreciate its immediate return. If found. please call Weazel at #4665.  4951! Help!! Need ride to Columbus, OH. Oct. 6-8. Will share expenses. Please call Laney x4830 FOR RENT 2 BDRM HOME 2 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS.272-6306I FORSALE COLOR TV RENTALS 19-INCH. $70/SEM, $120/YR; 25-INCH, $90/SEM, $160/YR FREE DELIVERY COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272­5959  I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S and 1 SMUGA CALL KRISTEN AT X2735 NEED 2 SMU GA'S BADLY! Call Krista X1618 I need many tickets for the Navy game. Please call Colin at x1930. I'll buy any tickets for any home game, or Miami. call JEFF at 239-3714, leave a message. Thanks. SO. CAL-NEED 6 TIC'S HAVE 2 PITT, NAVY, SO. METH WILL TRADE CALL 215-642-2765  Call #1804. (Adam, Pat, Bri, or Rob) One Pitt student ticket. The word is "cheap." Call Brian at #1804 PITT or USC GAs needed desparately. Please call Mike at #2288. NEED SEVERAL PITT TIX PLEASE!! #2819 I NEED 2 PITT GA'S (FOR MY PARENTS)!!! CALL CARYN 4830. HelpI Need 3 GA tickets to Pitt game. 317-743-7208. Need TIXX to any home football game.Big $$$.Call John X1583  SNATBALL! $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ PITT. G.A.'S NEEDED CALL MARK OR CHRIS AT 271-8860 %%%o/~k%%o/~k%%%%%%%% PURDUE TIX FOR SALE The info booth will selltix for $16 face value between 9am-9pm Fri. 1 REM TICKET CHEAP X1322 The KROTZ has brought out free beer and speidies for the last time unless you can get him a USC GA. Call277-7450 and save my ass! NEED A STUD SMU TICKET CALL BRIAN 3108  Please don't hit Kerry Ann Shannon with a water ballooon on Sunday--It's her Birthday!!! PURDUE TIX FOR SALE Tix will be sold for face value $16 . from 9am-9pm Fri at the info booth. Hi Ag To Christine,Will and the friends at Senior Bar on Wed.night-Thanks so much for all your support-Your hand holding,jacket and never ending smiles made it almost bearable.Love you lots! Patty P.S.It's broken Wiii-Don1 you owe me dinner?  
Lost: Blue ND pouch w/ keys, detex. ID, driver's license. and pixes inside. REWARD-please call Andria at 2903 or send to 112 Lyons.  Plane Ticket: SB to Newark for Fall Break--Super cheap!!! Call J. at 1870 ATTENTION-GOVERNMENT HOMES from $1 (U-repair).  PURDUE tix,pair, FOR SALE Dave (201) 729-9172, Evenings, Eastern Time I need 4 Navy tickets-2std. &2G.A. Please call Sean H. at X4327.  R.E.M. TICKETS Four 13th row, center tickets Best offer. Call 3590 or 3897 NEED 2 USC GAS AND 7 NAVY GAS!!!!!! CALL JULIE X3141 !!!!!!!  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ WANTED: MIAMI TICKETS CALL MATT AT 1961 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 2 USC GA's FOR SALE + HOTEL  DILLON NIGHT AT THE MOVIES FRIDAY 9:00 Road Warrior 11:30 Ferris Bueller's Day Off  
LOST: 2 KEYS IN OR AROUND FARLEY OR NORTH DINING HALL PLEASE CALL JENNIFER  Delinquent tax property. Repossessions. Call 1-602-838­8885 Ext. GH 6262.  NEED 4 PITT GA'S CALL TONY AT 234-1 048  TOP$ ALL HOME GA'S  ROOM USC WEEKEND! BEST OFFER. x1335  SATURDAY 9:00 Blues Brothers 11 :30 Mississippi Burning  
X4253, IF YOU FOUND THEM. THANKS!  ATTENTION-GOVERNMENT SEIZED VEHICLES FROM $100.  Need TXTS All Games call Bill 277-3653  312-920-9350 NEED GA TICKETS TO ANY  $$USC$$ I NEED YOU, YOU NEED ME !! I've PITT Tix, You've 3 USC GA's  IN DILLON PARTY ROOM It's the FREE thing to do!  
R U honest, or ? lost pr. black Vuarnets at Lafortune's auto bank teller. 9/11. Please call X4043 or leave w/ Carroll Hall rector. HELP!!! Levi's Jean Jacket with all my ID lost Sat. night. Probably in  FORDS, MERCEDES, CORVETTES, CHEVYS. SURPLUS BUYERS GUIDE. 1­602-838-8885 EXT. A 6262. Microwave Oven Rentals 1.5 cubic foot $75 now til May Collegiate Rentals 272-5959  BIG MONEY FOR USC TICKETS I NEED 10. STUDENT or GA Call FRANK 287-5320 NEED 6 USC GA'S! PLEASE CALL x4933  HOME GAME-CALL 283-4618 I NEED PURDUE & ALL HOME GAME TIX 272-6306 I NEED 2 PITT GA's FOR MY PARENTS CALL SUE x2485  Let's DEAL some$$$ Flow !!! Call Matt x1304 NEED 2 USC GA'S MIKE x3501 I need 4 SMU GA's. Will trade 4 Pitt GA's. Call Charlie at3489.  • ..... ****** ********* ********* ******** HAPPY BIRTHDAY KIM!I! Yes, we remembered! -Tricia and Chris ••* * * * * * ••* * * *.* * *** * * * * * ** ****.***.  
Alumni somewhere. x4777.  SONY 100W/ch AN Rcvr,SurrSnd+2-1 OOW  T. needs ONE USC Ticket--bad. Call him before he kills himself  HELP HELP HELP I NEED 2 USC GA'S !!!!!  PERSONALS  
LOST: GOLD ROPE BRACELET  spkrs.Asking $400 call Mark>271­ over it at 1870.  I HAVE CASH!!! PLEASE CALL  
EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE CALL LISA AT X4916  0672  I NEED, yes I need GA's for the  ALLISON AT 2128 !!!!!!  "' u ... 1VU Vf\LLCU I U A Lit"~ OFPRAYERANDJOYOUS  CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable atmosphere, daily & weekly  
LOST: SILVER PIN IN MOON SHAPE-SENT. VALUE. REWARD. please call 2770 or send to 311 Walsh.  Selling a 1987 honda elite 150cc scooter. Automatic, no shifting required, 2400 miles. Asking $1200 (retail value is $1435). Call 277-5647 after 6 pm.  USC game. Please sell me yours. Amy #2640. $$$ WILL TRADE 2 NAVY GAs or 2 SMU GAs for 2 PITT GAs  Yo! Yo! Me and King Midas need GA'sto: U.S.C., PITT, NAVY,PSU caiiSPANKY x4274  COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W, KOKOMO, IN 46901. Hi T.Bass!!!  specials, pool table, English darts, and great company. 234-3541 C.M. <;lOTCHA!! I WIN!!  
LOST: MINOLTA 35 mm camera with telephoto lens. Last had at  SCHWINN BIKE & TV.272-6306  Call277-0526 Evenings  NEED PITI GA'S PLEASE!! BETH 3706  Hi Jeff  A.B.  
Senior Bar or surrounding area on  I NEED LOTS OF USC STUD  
night of Fri., 9/22. $Reward$ if  JVC RX-60 RECIEVER. 55 WATTS  TIX!!!  Desperately need 2 USC GAs,  CP.  
found. Please call Molly at X4985.  ASKING $90  KEVIN 277-2399  Call Hales at 3640  Will pay $$$ Call Sean  X4332  Ag  see CLASS 1page 7  
..  • •••• t  ..  
----------------­ 

r--.--................~~------~------------------------------·--------------~~--~~---------------~~··~ 
Jayhawks will retire jersey in honor of alum Gale Sayers 
Associated Press 
After only three games, Kansas is retiring the number 
of freshman  linebacker  Wes  
Swinford.  
Swinford,  a  walk-on  who  

played eight-man high school football in Morrison, Okla., is the team's second leading tack­ler. Hut that's not the reason his No. 48 will be retired during halftime of Saturday's home game against Oklahoma. 
The ceremony will honor Gale Sayers. who wore the number as an All-American running back at Kansas in the early 1960s. Sayers, who went on to star for the Chicago Hears, is a member of the college and pro football Halls of Fame. 
Cubs 
continued from page 20 
everyday player left from the 
1984 division champions. 
1984. The real reason why the Cub fans are enjoying the time at the top and warily eye­ing the San Francisco Giants. Branded in every die-hard's memory, and emphasized every time NBC opens its Game of the Week, Steve Garvey rounding the bases as he leads the San Diego Padres (an apt nickname for Garvey) in their come-from­behind, three-games-to-two, pennant-dinching win over the Cubs in San Diego. 
It would have gone down in the Chicago history books as the blackest day in North Side history, had not Walter Payton broken Jim Brown's rushing record the very same day. 
Cub fans are ready for an­

other crash. Used to expecting the worst, die-hards didn't gnt mad whnn the Cubs didn't win this season, because they were expecting the collapse at any time, and actually joined bet­ting pools to predict when it would be. It wasn't if. but when. 
But the Cubs fooled them all. These guys, most of whom probably don't even have their pkturns on baseball cards yet, kept winning and kept it excit­ing. The original Wild Thing, Mitch Williams, keTJt the fans in their seats time and time again. 
Join The Observer 

Swinford wore No. 48 for three games before switching to No. 58 last week at Baylor. 
"Gee, I only wore it three weeks and they're going to re­tire it?" Swinford said. "I must be doing something right. 
"Heally, it's a privilege. It will probably mean a lot more to me later in life because I was the last one to wear it." 
Auburn coach Pat Dye has long referred to his team's an­nual late-season stretch against Florida, Georgia and Alabama as "Amen Corner" be­cause, like the famous holes at the Masters, championships are often won or lost there. 
But this year Dye says the fourth-ranked Tigers must 
A two-run lead he could hold, but only after he walked two batters and nearly beaned an­other. As if Cub fans hadn't suffered enough heartache, here was Williams adding heart attacks. 
The Cubs deserved to win the division. Not because they have the best players -no one could make a case for that -but be­cause they had the best team. 
And the Cub fans deserve the cross "Burma Road" before they get to "Amen Corner." 

The Army built the road dur­ing World War II to reopen supply lines cut by the Japanese. Dye has applied the term to Auburn's next five games, a rugged stretch that includes Tennessee, Kentucky, LSU, Florida State and Missis­sippi State. 
"Normally, I would say if we survive Amen Corner, we would be a Top Five team," Dye said. "But I can't say that this year because we've got to travel the Burma Hoad before we get to Amen Corner." 
Saturday marks the 50th an­niversary of the first football telecast. 
chance to celebrate as well. No one has suffered as long or as hard as Chicago baseball fans, where even the good years have bitter endings. 
The Mets are in third place; the Cards can't catch up. Maddux is starting the first game against the Giants Tuesday night in Wrigley Field. 
Maybe, just maybe, next year is this year. 
Maybe not. 
Saturday. Oct 
14 8 OOpm 
Moms C1v1c 
Aiidilnrll 1m 

all seats reserved 
$16 50 
Tickets on sale 
NOW 

CiVIC Box Office, Nightwinds Record Connect1on & usual outlets CHARGE 284·9190 
On Sept. 30, 1939, a local sta­tion televised the Waynesburg­Fordham game to several thou­sand viewers in New York City. 
"We were trying not to fall over the cables and look bad," said Michael "Mo" Scarry, a Waynesburg player who later coached with the Washington Redskins and Miami Dolphins. "In those days, we figured, 'What's TV?'" 
Hadio legend Bill Stern did the play-by-play and a young broadcaster named Mel Allen did pregame interviews. Ford­ham, which was then a national power, beat Waynesburg 34-7. But Scarry still has fond mem­ories of the game. 
"When you see the way TV is today and what it means to col-


Soccer 
continued from page 20 
an exhibition game earlier this season, losing 3-1 in Indianapolis on Aug. 24. Grace says that his young team was concerned with finding its own identity in the exhibition. so he made some moves he would not have made in an actual game, which probably hurt his team's chances of winning. 
"It will take a tremendous team effort for us to come away with a victory and keep our home winning streak alive," said Grace, "But if we could play an outstanding game, and if Indiana only has an average game, we will still be unde­feated at home." 
After all the excitement of the game against the Hoosiers dies lege and pro football, it's sort of nice to say we were part of the first TV game," he said. ''I've been in five Super Bowls, but it's one of the thrills of my career." 
Southern California used to be known as "Tailback U." Now Oklahoma State can make the same claim. 
It started with Terry Miller in the late 1970s and continued with Ernest Anderson, Thur­man Thomas and Harry Sanders. Now, Gerald Hudson is carrying on the tradition in Stillwater. 
The junior is averaging 133 yards per game -third best in the country -evnn though the Cowboys have lost their first three games. 
down, the Irish will have to fo­cus their sights on a Wisconsin team which also is laden with talent. Tlw Badgnrs are rur­rently 5-1-2 following a recent loss to Akron. 
The Badgers are led in seor­ing by Jeff Sehiedemynr, Josh f'lyr, and Bret LaFerrera, who Pach have thn~e goals on tlw season. Last year, Wiseonsin played the Irish to a 0-0 dead­lock. which brought their series record against Notre Dame to 3-1-2. 
Grace says that Wisconsin also will be gunning for the Irish, primarily because the Badgers felt they should have won last year's contest. In that game, Grace was foreed to hold out some of his starters be­cause of injury and illness. 

Notre Dame home sports schedule September 28-0ctober 1, 1989 
Friday  Men's soccer vs. Indiana, 7:30p.m.  
Friday-Sunday  Tennis hosting the Tom Fallon Invitational  
Sunday  Women's soccer vs. Michigan, 1 0 a.m.  
Sunday  Men's soccer vs. Wisconsin, 2 p.m.  

#1 NOTRE DAME "FIGHTING IRISH" vs. #2 MIAMI "HURRICANES" 

lliAHKSGMNG FOOTBAll WEEKEND 
NOVEMBER 22·26, 1989 
COMPlETE PACKAGE INCLUDES 
• 
ROUNDTRIP TRANSPORTATION TO AIRPORT 

• 
ROUNDTRIP JET FLIGHT TO MIAMI 

• 
4 NIGHTS AT THE LUXURIOUS SHAWNEE RESORT DIRECTLY ON BEAUTIFUL MIAMI BEACH 

• 
TRANSFERS TO THE "ORANGE BOWL" 

• 
NOTRE DAME VS. MIAMI GAME TICKET 

• 
GREAT AMERICAN'S TOUR STAFF ON-LOCATION 

• 
ALL TAXES AND GRATUITIES INCLUDED 


TRIP PRICE: $435.00, quad occupancy. $150.00 Deposit to reserve your spot Visa and Mastercard accepted 
Contact the Student Activities Office: Notre Dame 239-7308 315 LaFortune Center Saint Mary's 284-4561 103 Haggar Center 

r~ ~riday, September 29, 1989 
ND women's cross country aiming for top-five at National Catholics 
and his team have faced son but is able to be a leader by
By PETE CASTELLI 
Nebraska and Penn State. example," said Hanlon. "She is
Sports Writer 
"They are two teams that we very consistent, and she has a know little about, but we need good short game. We are en­Just off a win in the Lady 
Greyhound Invitational, the to watch out for them just the couraged by her play so far and same," Hanlon said. are hopeful that she will con­
Notre Dame women's golf team The MSU Invitational is a 54-tinue to play as well as shenow is looking toward this 
hole golf tournament to be can."
week's Michigan State 
played in the span of two days The Irish team total of 327Invitational. 
(36 holes on Saturday and 18 strokes broke the tournamentThe Irish will travel this week holes on Sunday). The Irish record for a combined teamto the home of the Spartans for never have played more than 18 score. Phares also earned a
thn two-day Invitational, 
holes in one day, and this con­place in the record books forscheduled for Saturday and 
Sunday at East Lansing's cerns Hanlon. the lowest individual score in "Conditioning will play an im­the Invitational's seven year
Forest Acres Golf Course. 
portant role in this tourna­history.
The MSU Invitational pro­
vides the Irish with some of ment," Hanlon said. "If the "I was very pleased with the girls are able to maintain con-team's performance in winning 
their toughest competition of 
the tournament," Hanlon says.
the year. Defending champion trol throughout the competi­Ohio State will not be present, tion, we will have a good per­"I felt going into this competi­
but such powerhouses as formance." tion that we had a good chance Illinois, Michigan and Michigan Last weekend, the Irish of winning, and the team 

proved me right by bringing all 
State will fill the gap, along roared through Indianapolis, 
the hardware back with them. 
with Iowa State, Nebraska and capturing the Lady Greyhound Northern Illinois. Invitational crown. The victory "This win is very important to Second-year Irish coach Tom was the first for Notre Dame in our girls. We had the opportu­
Hanlon is cautious but opti­the young season. nity to win before, but it always mistic about this weekend's Notre Dame also laid claim to seemed to slip away. This time match. the medalist title, as freshman we captured the tournament "The competition will defi­Kathy Phares earned this honor and set two records in the pro­nitely be tough this year," by shooting a 73. Other Irish cess, which has boosted the included team's confidence immensely.
Hanlon said. "Anytime you play participants Allison Big Ten teams, you know that Wojanas, who scored an 83; We are more confident in our The Observer IJoe VllaCOO 
capabilities, and are now in the 
things will be difficult." Roberta Bryer, 84; and 
Although Hanlon knows Pandora Fecko and Cappy position to make a better Roberta Bryer and the Notre Dame women's golf team are eyeing a successful finish at this weekend's Michigan State Invitational. The
about tne talent in the Big Ten, Mack, 87. showing in the following 
weeks." Irish golfers won the Lady Greyhound Invitational last weekend. 
it will be the first time that he "Kathy is a very low-key per­
.:. 

Even Buddy Ryan hopping on NFL's scoring bandwagon 
Associated Press special team touchdowns this 38, and only because Brent Without him, the defense might sioner according to the the NFL year compared to 11 last year. Fullwood fumbled at the Los both bend and break. standings, Jim Finks would not 
Everyone has a theory about But few teams have the per­Angeles one in the fourth quar­••• get elected if the election were why scoring is up 10 points a sonnel of the '85 Bears, so the ter. Sometimes it pays to get cut. held now. game in the NFL this year, like offense scores, too. In fact, Ironically, the Rams used to That's what wide ·receiver rules that allow linemen to use Ryan himself has become a vic­be among the conservative Chris Burkett of Buffalo dis­Going into Sunday's games, their hands and the elimination tim. teams, using a 3-man rush with covered when he was released the 16 teams that supported of bump and run. Last year, his Eagles won the a zone defense -a dassir. by the Bills following his na­Finks on July 6 have a com­
But those have been around NFC East despite a pass de­"bend but don't break" philos­tionally televised argument with bined record of 22-23. The 11 for a decade, so it's hard to see fense that was last in the NFL. ophy. quarterback Jim Kelly. teams that abstained are 18­how they have suddenly con­And last Sunday, his Eagles That's what was used by the Burkett, Buffalo's leading re­15, not counting 1-2 Houston, tributed to an increase from 38 sacked Joe Montana eight Giants against the Cardinals ceiver two years ago, was in the whose owner, Bud Adams, points a game last year to 48 times, but allowed Montana to last Sunday, a three option year of his contract, never made it to the meeting. now. pick apart his vulnerable sec­(sometimes) four-man rush making $236,000. He was im­
Why not blame it on one of ondary for four touchdowns in with a double zone defense. It mediately claimed on waivers ••• the game's brightest defensive the fourth quarter an lead the got four interceptions and five by the Jets. The New York Giants have minds, Buddy Ryan. 49ers to a 38-28 victory. sacks against Gary Hogeboom, But as a vested veteran, he probably had no more injuries 
Ever since the 1985 Bears The Rams play a variation of who hadn't been sacked and had the choice of turning down than anyone else this season, went 18-1 on the strength of the "46" -in fact, they call it had just two interceptions in the waiver claim and opting for but they seem to be getting Ryan's high-risk "46" defense, the "Eagle." It utilizes two his first two games. free agency, knowing that he them in the same place -in other teams have started to down linemen and five Moreover, the Giants rank was sought not only by the Jets, each of their last three home imitate it. gambling that they'll linebackers, at least two of just 20th on defense, but have but also the Packers and games, they've sustained a get to the quarterback before whom usually blitz. allowed fewer points (45) than Saints. Then he went back to serious foot injury. he has a chance to find the vul­But it also leaves the sec­any team in the league but the Jets and got a new 2-year nerable areas in the secondary. ondary in single coverage and Cincinnati. deal ... for $700,000. First it was Joe Morris, who Gambling creates turnovers last Sunday it allowed Green ••• broke a foot in the final exhibi­and that creates scoring -Bay to come close to erasing a On the other hand, no other If the owners decide to com­tion game and is lost for the there have been 21 defensive or 38-7 deficit. The Rams won 41-team has Lawrence Taylor. promise and pick a commis-season. 
-----------------------------------------·I
Kimmerly's 
GINA'S PIZZA 684-5930 I 
I
2640 South 3rd. at Bertrand Road 
I
Niles, Michigan 

I CHECK OUT OUR PRICES I PIZZA--------I 
12 lOCh 14 lOCh 12 1nch 14 inch 
I
Yes!! I
CHEESE . .............. $5.80 $6.95 BLACK OLIVE $6.30 s1.10 SAUSAGE . 6.00 7.50 
GREEN OLIVE 6.00 7.50 PEPPERONI . 6.30 7.70 MUSHROOM 6.oo 7.50 1
These are 

HAM . 6.30 7.70 6.70 8.oo 
I 
GROUND BEEF 6.00 7.50 COMBINATION .. 8.70 I CANADIAN BACON . 6.30 7.70 Sausage. Mushrooms.
our regular 6.95 
ANCHOVY •.•. ......., . . . . 6.30 7.70 Green Pepper and On1ons GREEN PEPPER ..... •6.00 7.50 EXTRAS . .80 1.00 I 
ONION . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.00 7.50
prices. I 
12 inch OUR FAMOUS "EVERYTHING" 14 inch 
I
$9.00 All Of The Pizza Toppings For A Great Taste Treat $12.95 
I 
-----------------------------------------! 
Free large Pepsi with any sandwich purchase 
Call for Free Campus Delivery 
181 09 State Road 23 277-3324 
offer ends Wed., October 4, 1989 



_________,i________j 
Stewart records 21st win asOakland lassoes Rangers 5-3 

Associated Press 
OAKLAND. Calif. -Dave Stewart, making his final start before the playoffs, pitched five shutout innings for his 21st victory as the Oakland Athletics beat the Texas Rangers 5-3 Thursday. 
Stewart, 21-9, matched his career high for victories set last season. The right-hander, who is scheduled to start the first game of the playoffs next Tuesday, gave up four hits. 
Todd Burns pitched two scoreless and Matt Young was charged with all the Texas runs in the ninth, including Ruben Sierra's 29th homer and club record 119th RBI. Dennis Eckersley got the last three outs for his 33rd save. 
Dave Parker hit his 22nd homer and singled home a run for the A's, giving him 97 HBis this season. The second-inning horner came off Brad Arnsberg, 2-1. Parker added an HBI single in Oakland's four-run third. 
Red Sox 12, Brewers 6 

Nick Esasky extended a ca­reer high with his 30th homer and Rick Cerone hit a two-run shot as Boston took a one­game lead over Milwaukee in the opener of a battle for third place in the AL East. 
Boston's Mike Boddicker, 15­11, allowed nine hits, including a two-run homer by Hobin Yount. and four runs in five in­nings. The 15 victories are the most since he won 20 games for Baltimore in 1983. 
The Red Sox pounded Mil­waukee starter Don August for seven runs on five hits and four walks in less than three in­nings. Boston took a 4-0 lead in the second on a two-run single by Kevin Homine and Cerone's fourth homer. Esasky lined a three-run homer into the screen in left with none out in the third. 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 
ished third and seventh. respec­tively, in their flights. First­year player Hon Hosas ad­vanced to the final round in his bracket. 
"At the beginning of the sea­son I said that freshman would play a large role on this team," said Irish coach Bob Bayliss. "I'm pleased with their perfor­mance considering the in­clement weather and the fact that they played some matches indoors and some outdoors." 
Unfavorable weather or not, the Irish will face some of the best competition in collegiate ll~nnis, including representa­tives from Army, Ball State, Colorado, Harvard, Illinois, Miami (Ohio). Michigan, Minnesota. Temple, Vanderbilt, West Virginia, and Wisconsin. 
"Many of the players will be ranked in the top 100 this year, and most were ranked last year," said Bayliss. "The Invitational gives us a chance to show our facilities to other teams, and it's an opportunity to see some of the best players and coaches in the college game today." 
First-round draws could play a key role, as last year's singles runner-up from Harvard re­turns, as well as the doubles champions from \'\'isconsin. 
The Irish boast the defending singles champion in sophomore Dave Dil.ucia, who will play in tlw A Flight , along with Walter Dolhare and Coleman. The all­frnshrnan B Flight consists of 
Mariners 6, Indians 2 

Pinch hitter Alvin Davis greeted Cleveland reliever Jesse Orosco with a tie-breaking two­run double in the eighth inning and Dave Valle also doubled home two runs. 
With the score tied 2-2, Henry Cotto drew a one-out walk off reliever Steve Olin and stole second. Olin walked Darnell Coles and Davis batted for Jim Presley. Orosco relieved but Davis' double spoiled the strat­egy. Rudy Seanez replaced Orosco and struck out Jay Buhner. After an intentional walk to Ken Griffey Jr., Valle doubled horne the final two runs. 
Olin came on to start the eighth after Bud Black held Seattle to two runs and five hits.Seattle starter Brian Hol­man pitched a six-hitter for his sixth complete game, yielding home runs to Joe Carter, his 35th, and Joel Skinner, his first. 
Angels 2, Royals 0 
Bert Blyleven capped a fabu­lous comeback season with a seven-hitter for his league­leading fifth shutout as Cali­fornia ended a six-game losing streak. 

Blyleven, 17-5 after going 10­17 with Minnesota a year ago, walked one and struck out six in pitching his eighth complete game. It was the 60th shutout of his career, one behind Tom Seaver, who is eighth on the all­time list. 
Blyleven's winning percentage of .773 set an Angels single­season record and his 2.73 ERA marked the first time he fin­ished a season below 3.00 since 1984 when he pitched for Cleveland. 
The Angels got a run off Larry McWilliams in the first inning. Devon White led off with a single, was sacrificed to 
Zurcher, Schmidt, and Hosas. 
"Walter and Dave have done a great job as far as getting us to come together as a team," said Coleman. 
By facing such strong compe­tition in his flight so early in his college career, Coleman has recognized that it will only im­prove his game. 
''I'm just trying to get some experience and get a feel for college tennis," said Coleman. "I can only go out and play my hardest and let the chips fall where they may." 
With such an optimistic out­look, don't be surprised if Coleman and the rest of the youthful Irish squad come away with a few upsets this weekend. 
second and scored on Chili Davis' single. Brian Downing hit his 14th home run in the eighth. 
It was Blyleven's ninth victory following a California loss and left the Angels one game behind the Royals in the race for sec­ond place in the American League West with three games remaining. 
Belcher has surgery 
Los Angeles Dodgers right­hander Tim Belcher, who pitched his major league-lead­
"liFFS ABEACH." 
'1'11 
KECK'S KLEAR WATER COMPANY '<;; fJ:. ~fjr( ~ Bottled Spring Water Co.:Jier Rental Free Delivery For Same Day Service Call 674-9992 before 1 0:00 AM Monday through Friday 
MON-THURS 11 :30AM-9:30PM FRI-SAT 11:30AM-10:30PM SUNDAY 11 :30AM-9PM SUNDAY BUFFET 11 :30AM-3PM 
.N.D. a 
~ 
a. 
:0 

uj
..;.a.....,_u_._s_..;;2;.;,0.;E~---1 ~ 
uj 
293-0126 
:i 1308 S. Nappanee St. Elkhart, IN 46516 ·-~..,.,.-v-t 
* ~ 
/,):,:LI -~-~~ 
Szechwan Garden 

~~~~~~M~ 
ing eighth shutout Wednesday night, underwent surgery Thursday to remove a bone spur and cartilage chips from his pitching hand. 
Belcher blanked the National League West champion San Francisco Giants on four hits and struck out 11 in a 1-0 vic­tory by the Dodgers Wednesday night, giving him a 15-12 record and a 2.82 earned run average. He won his final seven decisions of the season. 
The surgery on the fifth fin­ger at the MP joint of Belcher's right hand was performed by Dr. Norman Zemel of the Ker­lan-Jobe Orthopedic Clinic at Centinela Hospital on an out­patient basis and proceeded as planned. the Dodgers said. 
The Dodgers said Belcher's right hand will be immobilized for two weeks. After that time, he will begin range of motion exercises and therapy_ 
Belcher didn't acc<)mpany the Dodgers to Atlanta for their three-game season-ending series against the Braves, which begins Friday night. 
E N 
L D 
u R 

SPECIAL NRBQ
GUEST 
TONIGHT, 8 PM 
JOYCE ACC NOTRE DAME 
Tickets available at JOYCE ACC BOX OFFICE and ALL TICKETMASTER LOCATIONS 
1ncludmg L S AYRES (Un1v Park and Scollsdale Malls) NIGHTWINDS (N1Ies M1)-SUPERSOUNDS {Concord Mall) MUSIC MAGIC (Benton Harbor M1)-CARSON PIRIE SCOTT 1M1ch C11y In) 
OR CHARGE BY PHONE 

1-800-284·3030 AtJ{M;/A-<~d"f PRODUCTION 
F A L L 
Irish women's golf at MSU Invite 
NO fresh off championship at Indianapolis tournament 

By BARBARA MORAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's cross country team will be in action this afternoon when it hosts the National Catholic Invitational at 3 p.m. on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
The Irish will host a strong field of 21 teams and hope to improve on their sixth-place finish from last year. 
"Our goal is to place in the top five," said senior captain Wendy Murray. "We really want to do well. since it's our first home meet and such a big one." 
Notre Dame will host teams from all over the country, with thn fight for first place ex­pncted to be between Boston Collnge and Providence College. 
"Providence should be awe­some," said Irish coach Tim Connelly. "They could be one of the top five teams in the coun­try. Boston College also has a very good team and I think DnPaul could surprise some p!Hlple and be right near the front." 
In addition to these national powers, Notre Dame will also 
Tim Connelly 

have the opportunity to run against Midwestern Collegiate Conference rivals Dayton and Detroit. 
Murray said that the team's tough 1 7-46 loss at the hands of Georgetown two weeks ago had no effect on team morale, and that the team is ready for and optimistic about the National Catholics. 
"The Georgetown meet was a starting point," said Murray. "We went in there based on re­ality and just wanted to see how well we would run to-
Gretzky or Lemieux: Which of the'Great Ones' is greater? 
Associated Press 
PITTSBUHGII-Gretzky is 
99. Lemieux is 66. Just like thnir numbers, Gretzky and Lemieux have turned hockey upside down. 
Waynn Gretzky of the Los An­gnlns Kings is 28 years old and has been the best player in hoekey for a decade. He is only 14 points behind Gordie Howe on the National Hockey League's all-time scoring list, which means he will break Howe's record almost immedi­atnly. 
Gn~tzky has played 10 NHL seasons. Gordie Howe played 26 seasons. or until he was al­most 50. Imagine somebody breaking !lank Aaron's home run record -at age 25. 
Imagine. 
Now, imagine somebody who 
might be better. 
Mario Lemieux of the Pitts­burgh Penguins, who will be 24 on Oet. 5, might have been the best player in hockey for the last two years. Just a few years after Gretzky set single-season records for goals (92) and points (215) that were almost beyond imagination, Lemieux is threatening to break them. 
Compare the salaries. 
Gretzky is getting $20 million over eight years, Lemieux is getting $12 million-plus over five years in a sport where journeymen players earn less than some journeyman plumbers. 
Compare the statistics. 
Gretzky owns 50 NHL records and has scored 637 goals and 1,837 points in 10 NHL sea­sons, four of them on Stanley Cup champions. Lemieux has scored 300 goals and 715 points in five NHL seasons, four of them while surrounded by questionable talent on non­playoff teams. 
"There is hockey," said Paul Coffey, who's been a teammate of both, "and then there's su­perstar hockey." 
Compare the situations. 
Freshman Trip to the Dunes 
Date: Sunday, October 1 
Time: Buses leave main circle 11 :OOam Return 6:30pm 
Tickets: $3.00 Can be picked up at the Freshman Year of Studies 
Lunch and dinner provided Frisbee, volleyball, and more 
gether. Since then, we've been practicing very well together ­there has been a lot of com­munication and we've been working as a unit -we want to bring that out onto the racing field. 
"Good communication and 
running in a pack isn't only good· psychologically," Murray continued, "but it's also neces­sary to win." 
Connelly also stressed the need for his team to work to­gether and praised the strong running of Irish sophomore Lucy Nusrala. Notre Dame's top seeded runner, Nusrala is the only returning member of the Irish squad who placed in the top five overall at last year's National Catholics. 
"Lucy ran very well against the Hoyas," said the coach. "She ran aggressively among the leaders. She needs to do that every week. The rest of the girls need to run together as a group. They didn't do that against Georgetown, so hope­fully they learned their lesson and will run as a team in the National Catholics." 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
ND-SMC synchronized swim club will practice Mondays and Wednesdays from 4:30 to 6:30 p.m. at Rockne Pool.. Everyone is welcome. 
Ski Club will hold an organizational meeting at 8 p.m. Tuesday, Oct. 3, in Room 188 Nieuwland to discuss team tryouts and the Christmas trip to Jacksopn Hole, Wyom. Call 2962 or 3662 for more information. 
Ultimate frisbee tournament will be played indoors at Loftus Center. Games will be played from 9 to 11 p.m. weeknights. Rosters are due at NVA by Oct. 4. 
NVA swim relays will be held at Rolfs Aquatics Center Wednesday, Oct. 12. Students must represent their own hall, and halls may have more than one team. The deadline for rosters is Oct. 4. 
Irish Outdoors will meet at 7 p.m. Thursday, Oct. 5, in the Notre arne Room of LaFortune to discuss fall break trips. Call 271-9901 for more information. 
NVA golf scramble still has some spots left for the 11 
a.m. Sunday event. Register at the golf shop through Saturday. The tourney is an 18-hole two-person scramble. 
Registration deadlines for the following events are Friday, Oct. 6: men's and women's interhall, grad and faculty racquetball; and co-ree water polo. Call 239-6100 for more information. 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing at the Observer of­fice from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
Lemieux has literally saved hockey in Pittsburgh. The Pen­guins sold only 3,000 season tickets in 1983, the year before he arrived; this year, they've sold 11 ,000-plus and could have sold a few thousand more. 
And -shades of the Super Bowl Pittsburgh Steelers -the Penguins even attracted stand­ing room only crowds at their preseason practices. 
Gretzky has made hockey nearly as popular as Lakers' basketball in trend-conscious Los Angeles, where the only thing fashionable on ice before his arrival was Wild Turkey. 
Compare the superlatives. 
Many think Gretzky is the greatest athlete in any team sport during the 1980s. "Gretzky tries to do the impos­sible on every shift," Lemieux said. 
Lemieux's teammates have seen him do the impossible. 
"When Gretzky set his record (of 215 points), every player in hockey thought it was un­breakable. It seems unbeliev­able, but it just a matter of time until Mario breaks the record," teammate Rob Brown said. 
No matter how you compare them, Gretzky and Lemieux are beyond compare -except with each other. 
Gretzky the Great. Lemieux Le Magnifique. 
Five years ago, after scoring 282 points in a single junior season, Lemieux was called the second coming of Gretzky. Now, he may be the No. 1 player in the world. 
No longer is he the next Gret­zky. Now the question is: Who's the next Lemieux? 
"Mario is amazing, unbeliev­able, awesome," Penguins coach Gene Ubriaco said. "I once asked myself, 'Could Gret­zky follow Gretzky?' Mario has come in and done what no one but Gretzky has done."' 
"If you asked me three or four years ago who is the best player, there is no question I 
QUEEN OF PEACE MINISTRIES 
MEDJUGORJE PRAYER MEETING 
FATIMA RETREAT CENTER every SUNDAY EV~NING! Medjugorje introductory session 7:00 P.M. to 7:30 P.M. Medjugorje Prayer Meeting.........7:30 P.M. to 9:00P.M. 
"If I wasn't a Pope, I'd be in Medjugorje already!" 
-John Paul II 
with every Purchase! 
FOR AVERY UMITED TIME! 
(WITH THIS AD) 
FOR DETAILS ... stop in to see our salon, or call us at ... 
272·7653 

would have said Wayne Gret­
zky," Detroit coach Jacques 
Demers said. "But, right now, 
the best hockey player in the 
world is Mario Lemieux. He's 
taken over. He's the most tal­
ented." 
Others disagree, such as Philadelphia Flyers general manager Bobby Clarke, who still favors Gretzky over Lemieux. But, for the first time, Gretzky and Lemieux are play­ing on level ice. 
Lemieux has been the NHL's 
scoring champion the last two 
season and the league's MVP in 
1987-88. Gretzky, no longer 
surrounded by the superstars 
who helped him win four Stan­
ley Cups in five years in Edmon­
ton, was the MVP last year for 
the ninth time, but the Kings 
were eliminated in the second 
round of the playoffs. 
Brown, who scored 115 points on Lemieux's line last season, recalls reading a news­paper story that argued the Oilers could never win a Stanley Cup with Gretzky because he dominated the puck so much. 
"Now you hear the same knocks against Mario," Brown said. "And I think Mario's go­ing to go out and prove them wrong." 
Last season, with Gretzky's Kings already eliminated, Lemieux tied NHL playoff records with four first-period goals, five overall and eight points in a 10-7 playoff victory over Philadelphia. The Penguins lost the second-round series in seven games, but Lemieux had 12 goals and 19 points in 11 playoff games. 
"Mario Lemieux showed why he is the best hockey player in the world," Penguins goal­tender Tom Barrasso said. 
"He can take control a game like nobody else can," team­mate Bob Errey said. "Someday, he may score 10 (points) in a game." 
That someday may be soon. 
Last New Year's Eve against New Jersey, Lemieux recorded one type of each goal possible: even-strength, short-handed, power play, penalty shot and e~pty net in a five-goal, eight­pomt game. 
page 18 The Observer 
Cub playoff tickets go for black-market rates 
Associated Press For scalpers, this year is par­ticularly hot. 
CHICAGO-If you're looking Amid the professional for tickets to the Cubs-Giants scalpers and the people willing playoff series, forget it. If to pay hundreds of dollars are you're legit, that is. fans like Jim Beutjer, who has a 
In reality, there's no problem plumbing business in suburban 
getting tickets, although the Wheaton and just wanted seven going price might be 10 or 20 tickets so he could take his times face value. family to a game. 
"We paid $400 for a block of His ad read: four tickets that we just sold "NEED CUBS PLAYOFF & for $2,000," said a man who WORLD SERIES TICK"ETS wants to be known only as DESPERATELY!" Harry C. These are tickets for "My phone has been ringing good seats that carry a face off the wall," said Beutjer, es­value of $30 each. timating that he received 150 
The Jaw forbids reselling calls on the one day his ad ran. tickets for more than the face But he didn't get a single value, and occasional scalpers ticket. 
will be arrested outside the "All these people are trying to ballpark. But scalpers who gouge you," he said. "The last 
r 
work over the telephone say guy who called wanted $1,250 they don't have much to worry for four tickets." about. But Beutjer, you see, wants his seven tickets at face value. 
In morning newspapers "I just want to take my fam­Thursday, there were nearly ily," he said. 100 classified ads for people 
Meanwhile, three Cubs fans wanting to buy or sell Cubs sued the team and TicketMas­
ter, saying they were told onlytickets among a few scattered after buying more than fourads for airline tickets and one tickets that they would be lim­for violinist Itzhak Perlman's ited to four seats.

concert. 

A's have just enough bash, pitching to defend division title 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif.-The once­feeble American League West likely will boast three teams with 90 wins by week's end. But it still takes about 100 to con­tend with the repeat champion Athletics. 
Just like last year, Oakland gets to spend the final weekend padding its stats and mapping out its approach to the playoffs while the AL East leaders ex­haust all resources just to sur­vive. 
"The loss we had in LA (in the 1988 World Series), we don't forget," relief ace Dennis Eck­ersley said as the A's savored their second straight divisional crown, clinched Wednesday night. "But we can enjoy this one for about four or five days." 
In the meantime, there are goals, lots of them. 
Going the rest of the way without a defeat would produce a second consecutive 1 00-win season, last achieved by the Baltimore Orioles a decade ago. Dave Parker, who homered Thursday, needs just four runs batted in for his first 100-RBI in the American League and fifth overall. 
Mike Moore, 19-11 after pitching a one-hitter for seven innings in the 5-0 clincher over Texas, goes for the 20-victory plateau Sunday against Kansas City. And Carney Lansford, whose .336 batting average trails Minnesota's Kirby Puck­ett by four percentage points, seeks his second AL batting crown. 
"That hasn't been on my mind at all," Lansford said, ending a month-long silence with the Bay area media. "I wouldn't trade this (title) for t~at. I wouldn't mind seeing Kirby Puckett do it so a right­handed hitter finally wins it again." 

Lansford, who also has qui­etly stolen 37 bases, is proudest of the way he and his team­mates held up through their ailments this year -and not just the well-publicized injuries that sidelined Jose Canseco, Mark McGwire, Walt Weiss and Eckersley. 
"This is more gratifying than last year," he said. "There have been a Jot of days when guys like Dave Henderson, Dave Parker and myself went out there and played even though we were dog-tired and banged up, because we had to play ... I think everybody realizes what we had to go through this year." 
Mark McGwire, disabled early in the year by a back injury, heard rumblings all season long about his low batting av­erage, now .226. But he still managed to lead the club with 31 homers to become the sec­ond player in history to hit 30 in each of his first three full seasons; Canseco was the first. 
"This year's a lot more meaningful," McGwire said. "I can't remember but a handful of blowout games this year. Last year, it seemed like we had a lot more. 
"This year, there's going to be three teams in our division with 90 or more wins, and only one team gets to go. That's tough to take. If they were in the East, they'd be running away with it." 

Canseco isn't leading any cat­egory this year following his MVP season. But he has hit 17 homers in less than half a sea­son, and considers it an im­pressive achievement in light of his wrist injury and bad public­ity that has dogged him since last winter. In the clincher, he gave the A's the lead for good with a homer that he described on his 900 number as going "a mile high and a mile far" -ac­tually an estimated 456 feet. 
"I've been at the bottom and I've been at the top," Canseco said. I've been from riches to rags and back to riches. I've been everywhere this year." 
Rickey Henderson, who ar­
rived in a trade from the Yan­kees at midseason, is savoring his first true division title. lie was in on a strike-year division crown with Oakland in 1981. 
"I got the first real one," he said. "This is a great feeling, much better than the half-year. In the playoffs last year I sat in the stands and wished I could play for the A's. This is like a dream come true." 
General Manager Sandy Alderson was on hand for the celebration before heading to Arizona to scout Instructional League players. He said the A's have carried the burden of high expectations for nearly two years. 
"Let's face it, since back in May of '88, all we've done is put ourselves in a position to blow an opportunity," Alderson said. 
, 

WANTED: USC vs. NO TICKETS 24hr. answering service (213) 487-4161 Home (213)422-2812  
ROCCO'S HAIRSTYLING FOR ME 1! N 531 N. Michigan St. Phone 233-4957  

N.D./MIAMI GAME NOV. 24-26, 1989 5599 Oou==ncy ~2~~~~oc. 2~30 Md, inley-287-8747 1-800-~ )2-2616 (IND.) 1-800-6t'· :-4604 (U.S.A.)  


University Of Notre Dame Senior Accounting Majors 
Are Invited To A Special Presentation 
By 
Daniel J. Kelly 
Chairman Of The Board 
Deloitte & Touche Who Presents Deloitte & Touche Building The Firm For The 1990's. 
A Reception Follows 


Sunday, October 1, 1989 Monogram Room 7:00p.m. 
Joyce Athletic Center 


r -Fri~y, September 29, 1989 
CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 
The Observer page 19 

Friday . . 
3 p.m. SMC Tennis vs. Taylor Umvers1ty. 
4:30 p.m. Mathematics Department presents "Three Folds of Degree 9 and 10," by Prof. Mauro Beltrametti, University of Genova, Room 226 Math Building. 
6 & 9 p.m. Film, 'The Last Temptation of Christ," Annen­berg Auditorium, $2. 
7:30 p.m. Soccer vs. Indiana. 8 p.m. R.E.M. Concert, JACC arena. 
Saturday 9 a.m. Men's Tennis, Tom Fallon Invitation, Eck Tennis 
Pavilion. 3 p.m. SMC Soccer vs. Marquette University. 6 & 9 p.m. Film, "The Last Temptation of Christ," An­
nenberg Auditorium, $2. 
Sunday 
9 a.m. Men's Tennis, Tom Fallon Invitation, Eck Tennis 
Pavilion. 10 a.m. ND Women's Soccer vs. University of Michigan. 11 a.m. Spanish Mass with Fr. Pelton, Farley Hall 
Chapel. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Meatloaf Meatloaf Veal Marengo Pizza Chili Cheese Macaroni Baked Lentil Supreme Devonshire Sandwich Deli Bar 
50 Bill-, Super Bowl XXI lineman 51 Spreads rumors 53 Boy 54 Floating solid H20 
56 Compound containing two elements only 
58 Mortifies 59 Inexperienced workman 60 Gary Cooper role 61 Transmitters 
DOWN 
1 Mailing charge 2 Devil 3 Jim Thorpe, e.g. 4 A crowd in 
Cremona? 5 Einstein's fourth 
dimension 6 Swelling 1 Emulated 
Robert Giroux 8 Standard 9 Bathe 
Basket. " 
121rving Stone's "Love Is-" 14 Persona ­15 Clarissa and Sir Anthony 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

20 Piths 36 Compelled by 42 Queue 23 Street fight, in intimidation 44 Mitigates
gang slang 

37 Grove in which 48 Fleche 27 Bolus 
Plato taught 
51 Tall flower, for 29 Beethoven's short

38 Corvine calls 
-Sonata 52 Narrow: Comb. 
31 Recipe 39 Crisp cracker formmeasures 40 Vintner's
33 Bryophyte 55 Fixed charge 
employee35 "-at seven": 57 Colgate's­Browning 41 Rainmakers Raiders 
ACROSS 

1 Large dish 8 Fragrant spice 13 Withstand successfully 14 The-State (New 
Hampshire) 16 Contrived 17 Fastened firmly 18 Sesame 19 Flow forth 21 Wrath 22 Southwest wind 24 Sharp 25 Miller or Blyth 26 Rig 28 Ski lift 29 RR stops 30 Hermits 32 Drive 34 Extracted, as sap 
from a tree 35 Secure a 
schooner 36 Lily type 38 Is made up of 42 Colorful fish 43 Cauterize 45 Kind of drum 46 Fed. farm-aid 
bureau 47 lmpignorates 49 Merriment 


COMICS 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 

WILBUR AND WENDEL 
S'PECTACVL.A~ 
ARE CAVS£ D 
NOXIOUS B£LCUE o 

I 
B!LL WI\ TTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
JAY HOSLER 

------------------~ 
Sports 
Friday, September 29, 1989
page 20 

Irish soccer faces stern home tests in Wisconsin, Indiana 
By KEN TYSIAC Sports Writer 
A couple of very tough oppo­nents invade Krause Stadium this weekend to face a Notre Dame soccer team bent on proving it can play with the best teams in the country. 
Notre Dame battles its in­trastate rivals from Indiana University on Friday at 7:30, and then faces the Badgers from Wisconsin at 2 p.m. on Sunday. Judging from the repu­tations these teams bring into this weekend, the Irish have their work cut out for them. 
The women's soccer team will host Indiana before the men's match Friday, then plays Michigan at 10 a.m. Sunday. 
The annual match against the I Ioosiers is generally regarded as Notre Dame's biggest game 
NO tennis set to host Fallon Invite 
By DAVE McMAHON Sports Writer 
Some of the top men's tennis players in the nation begin ac­tion today in the Tom Fallon Invitational, one of the premier tournaments in the Midwest. 
Starting times at the Courtney Courts are 8:30 a.m. on Friday and 9 a.m. on Saturday and Sunday. 
The Irish enter the tourna­ment fresh off a quality show­ing at last week's Navy All­Conference Tournament, which 
included five  teams in the top  
20.  
Freshman  Andy  Zurcher  

opened his collegiate career by winning the fifth flight in sin­gles action, while senior Mike Wallace took top honors in the eighth flight. 
Chuck Coleman and Mark Schmidt, also freshman, fin-
see TENNIS I page 16 
of the season. The game also holds special significance for Irish coach Dennis Grace, since he served under Indiana coach Jerry Yeagley both as a player and an assistant coach. 
"He (Yeagley) and I are very close," said Grace, "but right now he is very intent on putting Dennis Grace back in his place. As far as I know, Notre Dame is the only team that has played Indiana in each of the past two years and not lost to them, so he (Yeagley) is out to even the score." 
Indeed, a 4-3 loss two years ago at Notre Dame and a 1-1 tie last year in Bloomington against his former assistant's team must be eating at Yeagley. In fact, the Indiana coach went so far as to predict a Hoosier victory on local television. 
The Hoosiers boast a 6-1-1 goals-against-average of 0.71. 


"Kenny Snow is a brilliant player," said Grace, "He's very dangerous, probably one of the most dangerous players I've ever seen. But he has not done much damage in the past to Notre Dame because of a de­fender named Paul LaVigne. I expect Paul to have a sensa­tional game again and hope he will be able to neutralize Kenny Snow." 
Notre Dame is counting on 
the home-field advantage to put
Dennis Grace 

the Hoosiers at a disadvantage. record and are ranked sixth in 
The Irish have never lost a the nation by Soccer America game at Krause Stadium, 
magazine. All-American Ken where they boast a 20-0-1 at 
Snow, who has scored 16 the facility since it opened in points in only eight games, 1987. leads the team in scoring, and Forward Mitch Kern. who 
goalkeeper Juergen Sommer scored two goals in two games anchors the defense with a for the Irish last weekend, says 

Notre Dame alumnus Greg Bell, who gained over 200 yards last week, 
grandaddy of the Cubs at the ripe old age of 30 and the only
and his Los Angeles Ram teammates face the San Francisco 49ers in 
see CUBS/ page 14

the NFL's featured matchuo Sunday. 
ND cross country in underdog role 
No. 2 Providence College favored at National Catholics 



By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 

This time last year, the Notre Dame men's cross country team was riding high after crushing a strong team from Georgetown in its opening meet of the season. 
• Women's meet I page 17 
That team went on to win the National Catholic meet and eventually finished ninth in the NCAAs. 
This fall. the Irish once again opened their season with a vic­tory over the Hoyas, although the win was not as solid as in 1988. Notre Dame would like to continue following the same script as last year, but the next step will not be an easy one. 
The test for the team will be the National Catholic Meet, held at 4 p.m. today at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Notre Dame has won the meet three times and is the defending
The Cbsetver I Rle f'h<*> 

champion of the meet, which
The Notre Dame cross country team, shown here en route to last 
has been held here ever since its 
year's National Catholic Invitational championship, will have to upset 
inception 11 years ago. 

second-ranked Providence in order to defend its title. 
No-name roster has Cub fans cheering 
The life of a Chicago Cubs fan: currently celebrating the National League East title, dreading the playoffs and won­dering who the heck those guys on the field really are. 
Theresa Kelly 
Sports Editor 


No one knows. Walton, Bielecki, Dascenzo, Girardi, Kilgus ... Wrona? Vance Law at third? 
Jerome Walton. a Rookie of the Year contender with his average hovering around .300 and a record-breaking hitting streak in August. Mike Bielecki, a lefty from Pittsburgh with an 18-7 record and a face no one would recognize. The list goes on and on, with a bunch of guys nobody but their mothers had ever heard of suddenly producing regularly, or coming through in the clutch. or filling in for and outplaying a starter. 
No one would dare pick the Cubs to win the division, this year or any year. They ain't that good. Oh sure, they've got Rick Sutcliffe on the pitching staff and Andre Dawson in right field, bad knees and all. Also, the durable Ryne Sandberg continues to be a vacuum at second, the 
Joe Plane 

Providence, with four team members who can run the mile in four minutes or less, pre­sents Notre Dame with its stiffest challenge. 
The Friars, whose runners are mostly from Ireland and England, are ranked second in the nation in the latest cross country polls. Notre Dame is 15th. 
"Providence is obviously the favorite, and we are certainly the underdog," Irish head coach Joe Piane stated. "If we run well, I know that we can run with Providence." 
Providence came in as a heavy favorite last year, but the Irish the home-field advantage should be a big factor. 
"If this game were at IU, we would have to play in front of thousands of hostile fans," said Kern. "But we know how to play well here at Krause, and if we hold them in check on de­fense, we know we have a chance against them." 
Grace begs to differ with that prediction. 
"If anything, the home field 'advantage' is working against us in this game," he said. "Indiana is possessed with the thought of being the first team to win a game in Krause Stadium. So right now, the home field is working against us in that it gives Indiana extra motivation to beat us." 
Notre Dame met Indiana in 
see SOCCER I page 14 
came away with a eommanding first place finish. Loyola plaeed second, and Providence finished a disappointing third. 
Among the other 22 teams in attendanee will be St. Thomas, which traditionally has had a strong running program, Marquette and Boston College. Loyola, the champion two years ago, will also be returning for another craek at the title. 
Piane expects his top three runners -Mike O'Connor, Tom O'Rourke and Ryan Cahill -to turn in good performances. 
"I would like them to run as well as they did against Georgetown," Piane said. 
J.T. Burke, Pat Kearns, Bill Dauphinais and John Coyle also will be running for the Irish. 
All of the meets during the early part of the season are also training for the champi­onship meets at the beginning of next month. Piane points to the District Meet on Nov. 11 as the key to the season. 
"The whole season rests on the District Meet," Piane said. "If we can continue to improve until then, I'll be happy." 



