IACCENT•• L"essons in law ·_I 
Wet snow 
_ Snow mixed with freezing rain, changing to all snow later in

IVIEWPOINT: New attitudes needed at ND IL...====::::..._t_o:d_sa'fr_~~-ig;;_!~_~~--m-id-3_·s__,. 


Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.­An advanced navigation satel­lite was propelled into orbit Tuesday by the Air Force's new Delta 2 rocket, a 128-foot-tall booster developed after the Challenger disaster to carry vi­tal military payloads. 
The three-stage $30 million rocket roared off its launch pad Ron Rand, the Air Force on schedule at 1:30 p.m. and launch commentator. the Air Force reported 30 On Thursday an onboard minutes later that it had motor will fire to shift the satel­released the satellite into an in­lite into a circular orbit in itial elliptical orbit ranging which both the high and low from about 100 to 11,000 miles points will be about 11,000 miles high. high. 
"The spacecraft separation The launch was postponed occurred on time and every­Sunday just 13 minutes before thing looks fine" said Lt. Col. the planned liftoff. 

Honor Code at Notre Dame not agreed upon by all students 
By KELLEY TUTHILL and MAURA KRAUSE Staff Reporters 
Students and faculty have yet to give their widespread support of the honor code and have raised many questions concerning the code. 
"The honor code is a great change and change is painful," said Senior Dan Gerlach, a member of the Honor Code Committee. 
The Second in a 3-part Series 
The Honor Code 

The Observer conducted a telephone survey of 134 undergraduate students, asking questions concerning the honor code and cheating at Notre Dame. 
The Honor Code Committee recently completed their own mail survey, the results of which will be released early next week, according to Father Oliver Williams, associate provost of the Uni­versity and active administrator of the honor code. 
As shown in the graphic, many stu­dents at Notre Dame seem to have reservations about the honor code. When asked if the honor code should be implemented campus-wide at Notre said yes, while four percent did not know. Many more juniors and seniors polled were opposed to the implemen­tation of the honor code than were freshmen and sophomores. 
Students apparently think they have a good understanding of how the honor code operates now. One question asked, "Has the honor code been explained to you at any time?" and 114 students replied yes, 19 said no, and one did not know. 
Members of the Committee and various professors have questioned whether an honor code should be a part of a Catholic education. "I think that moral and Christian values suggest that one should conduct him or herself 
Union Carbide will pay for '84 gas leak 
Associated Press 
NEW DELHI, India-Union Carbide Corporation agreed Tuesday to pay $470 million to the government of India in a court-ordered settlement re­sulting from the 1984 gas leak at Bhopal that killed more than 3,300 people in the world's worst industrial disaster. 
Activists in Bhopal denounced the settlement as a betrayal of the 20,000 victims who still suffer from exposure to the deadly gas that escaped from a pesticides plant on December 3, 1984. The govern­ment had sought $3 billion in damages. 
Chief Justice R.S. Pathak in­terrupted a government prose­cutor's routine argument when the court reconvened after lunch, and ordered the U.S.­based multinational company to pay the damages by March 31. 
Attorneys for the govern­ment and Union Carbide promptly agreed. 
"It was apparent that there was an out-of-court agreement between Union Carbide and the government," said a court of­ficial who spoke on condition of anonymity. "For such an order there should have been excite­ment, but there was no mur­mur even." 
"It wasn't entirely out of the blue," said another source, who also spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Pathak, citing "the enormity of human suffering," said a settlement was needed to "provide immediate and sub­stantial relief." 
More than 2,000 people were killed almost immediately when the white vapor of methyl isocyanate seeped from a storage tank at the plant operated by Union Carbide's Indian subsidiary and drifted over nearby shantytowns and into Bhopal. 
The leak occurred shortly after midnight, and some vic­tims died in their sleep. Others, blinded by tears and gasping for breath, tried to flee but col­lapsed in death. 
More than 20,000 people still suffer from exposure to the gas and victims continue to die at a rate of at least one a day, according to a government gas relief board. It says the death toll has reached 3,329. 
Pathak, speaking for a five­judge Supreme Court panel, or­dered Union Carbide to pay $470 million to the Indian gov­ernment "in full and final settlement of all claims, rights and liabilities related to and arising out of the Bhopal gas disaster.'' 
He also ordered all civil proceedings transferred to the 
see GAS, page 4 


-

~ --~---------­
Wednesday, February 15, 1989
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 
OF INTEREST 

Jean Nolan & Kevin Moser, returning Holy Cross Associates, will speak of their experience in Chile tomor­row at 7 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
The Social Action Club of Saint Mary's College will meet tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Room 306 Haggar College Center. Ifyou cannot attend contact Fran Holmes 284-4424. 
-The Observer 

Mandatory Placement Exams inFrenchandSpanish will be given on Tuesday Feb. 21 and Feb. 28, respectively, in the Language Laboratory, Room 202 O'Shaughnessy. Students who have studied French or Spanish in high school but have not yet taken a course in those languages at ND must take a placement exam prior to registration. Sign-up sheets and further information are available now in the Language Lab Office, Room 251 O'Shaughnessy. 
-The Observer 

89-90 Student Union Board Applications are now available from the SUB secretary, 2nd floor LaFor­tune. Executive Committee positions of Board Manager, Comptroller and Directors of Programming, Marketing and Relations are due Feb. 22. Commissioner and Assis­tant Commissioner positions for special events, campus entertainment, movies, music entertainment, services, ideas & issues and cultural arts are due March 15. -The Observer 
"Preparing for Office Visit&' Plant Trips" will be the topic of a presentation given by Marilyn Bury, assis­tant director, Career and Placement Services. The presentation will be held in the Hesburgh Library Lounge today at 6:30p.m. -The Observer 
Irish Lunch will be served tomorrow at the Center for Social Concerns from 11:30-1:30. -The Observer 
Natural Family Planning Program of st. Joseph County is once again offering the Notre Dame community two opportunities to learn more about this safe, healthy, effective, and morally acceptable means of family plan­ning. Introductory session tonight from 7-8 p.m. at the Coffee House in the Center for Social Concerns. Classes for married or engaged couples begin on campus tomorrow night. Call 288-2662 for more information. -The Observer 
ISO Coffee Hour will be held tonight at 7:30p.m. in the Lounge and will include a viewing of the festival film. 
-The Observer 

Faculty Course Evaluations from Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors are due in the return boxes of your dorm mailrooms by Feb. 17. Please remember to fill in the first four letters of the professor's last name, the de­partment and the course number of your Fall 1988 classes. Participation is essential. -The Observer 
NO Investment Club will meet this evening at 6 p.m. in Room 220 Hayes-Healy. -The Observer 
The Adopt-A-Nun club is looking for students to visit the retired Holy Cross sisters who live on Saint Mary's Campus. Students or pairs of students who "adopt" a sister visit their sister one afternoon a week. For more informa­tion call Terry Brady (283-3859) or Cindy Calabrese (284­4056). -The Observer 
Pax Christi Prayer Meeting tonight in the Center for Social Concerns Chapel at 8 p.m. -The Observer 
Billiards Tournament first round matchings end this week. Those who have signed up are asked to get their match in. -The Observer 
Senior Chicago Trip spaces are still available for the trip to Chicago tonight. Sign up in Senior Class office or show up at Main Circle at 7:30. -The Observer 

Design Goddess .................. Alison Cocks Accent Copy Editor .... ...... Matt Murphy Design Assistant ................ Kathy Gliwa Accent Designer......... Bernadette Shilts Typesetters .......................... Mike Kolar Typist ................................ Rosi Lozada ......................................................... Der ND Day Editor ................. Kathy Burns News Editor .............. Pain in the Cronin SMC Day Editor ............ Alissa Murphy Copy Editor .............. Florentine Hoelker Bu.siness Editor........ ..... Matt Gallagher Sports Copy Editor ........ Steve Megargee Bu.siness Copy Editor ... Christine Walsh Viewpoint Copy Editor ....... Laura Manzi Bu.siness Layout.. ............ Janice O'Leary Viewpoint Layout ............... Laura Manzi Sports Wednesday Guru ... Theresa Kelly Accent Editor ............... Robyn Simmons 
'AI Ollllrftr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday tbroup Friday aoept duriQa cum Uld YK&IioD periods. neOllllrftr is published by tbe students of tbe UniYcnity of Nocre n.mc Uld SaiDt Mary's Collqc. Sublcripti0111 may be purdlu­ed for S40 pa-year (125 pa-ICIIICIIcr) by writiac ne Ollllrftr, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dulle, llllliaaa 465S6. 
ne ....._is • member of ne A-111 dalell Pn-. All rcproduaion riahts arc 
Notre Dame social life needs 24-hour lounge 
The social life at Notre Dame is rotten. 
_...
How often has this been said by Notre Dame Matt students? And, of course, everyone can name 
Gallagher
the causes behind this problem: the alcohol ~J.
!•. 
policy, South Bend, parietals, the Administra­
tion, the snow, the ugly girls, the stupid guys, Assistant News Edlto1· 
~ r
the campus, and so on. 

In fact, one of the principal activities of the Notre Dame student body is complaining about how bad the social life on campus really is. That is our social life. 
And it only gets worse as the year goes on. Football season, the principal source of Fall Semester social life, is over, and with it goes the tailgaters, pre-and post-game parties. Spring Semester is mainly marked by snow and basketball losses. 
Now more than ever, Notre Dame students realize the sad state of the social life here. 
In the fall of 1988, something was finally done to attempt to rectify this sad situation. It was nothing momentous, but it certainly was a step in the right direction. I am speaking of the opening of the 24-hour Oak Room. 
Nothing special, you say? Mter all, who wants to go to the Oak Room at 4 a.m.? Strangely enough, such a minor step as extend­
ML!3
ing the hours of the Oak Room was a signal, .________________
....:,.:.:;;~ 
finally, that the University realized that there a good idea. But, as always at Notre Dame, does indeed exist a problem with the social life financial considerations took precedent over here. good sense. 
But, remember, "We are N.D." I am fairly certain that it was the costs of 
The 24-hour Oak Room closed at the beginning keeping the 24-hour Oak Room staffed that of the Spring Semester. As reported in The Ob-made it "not worth it" to keep the Oak Room server, the 24-hour Oak Room was closed due open. I grant that such economic loss is, and to declining attendance. Student Body Vice should be, factored into the University's deci-President Mike Paese was quoted as saying sion to keep the Oak Room open 24 hours. "Because the numbers were not there, to keep However, this should not be the sole consider-it open 24 hours would not be worth it." ation when making such a decision. 
With all due respect to Mike, this excuse is Notre Dame's social life will never become simply not good enough. better until the University, and particularly the 
Let's face it: a majority of the students at Administration, make a firm decision to make Notre Dame are confined to campus the it better. The 24 hour Oak Room was, and still majority of the time. Very few students have is, a good idea. access to cars, and the geography of the campus A24-hour social space is necessary. A 24-hour does not lend itself to students walking to res-social space that serves food 24-hours is not taurants or bars. necessary. A possible solution would be to keep 
The 24-hour Oak Room provided a solution. the 24-hour Oak Room, but to discontinue food It was open when students needed it the most: service from 4 a.m. until breakfast the next after parietals and on weekends. The 24-hour day; instead, just provide coffee, soft drinks, Oak Room was a public place for students to and candy. This would drastically lower the congregate, get a bite to eat, sober up, or just labor costs and the material costs of all the hang out. It was close to where the students perishable foods, while maintaining the prin­live and did not require riding in an automobile cipal goal of the 24-hour space: to provide a (in a dubious state of sobriety) to Denny's or place on-campus where students may gather. another 24-hour establishment. 
The campus lacks any other type of 24-hour It may be necessary that the University be lounge. The Oak Room provided an ideal set-willing to accept a few thousand dollars loss to ting, as it both provided a space and food to the keep the Oak Room open. It would be worth the students. All in all, the 24-hour Oak Room was money. 
...................~-~-~~~·8;~·;~;..................11 Observer classifieds will be accepted from TodaylslauraS.sblrthday. Call her up 9am-3pm M-F at the Observel' offices 3-i 4 
and w1sh her a happy one. By the way I
1 Laura,we do expect to see you dancing LaFortune11 on pool tables tomght. • 
o~======================================~o 
ATTENTION JUNIORS 
Applications are currently being accepted for the following position: 
Business Manager 
• 
Oversee production of a newspaper. 

• 
Work with these seven departments: Advertising, Circulation, Business, Production, Systems, Observer Typesetting, and Ad Design 

• 
Will be responsible for planning and implementing a bahi'nced budget for the student newspaper . 

• 
Need to be a motivator, planner, and trouble shooter. 

• 
No previous newspaper publishing experience necessary. 


Call Chris Donnelly at 239-7471 to find out the benefits of this position. 
=Ihe.=.ObserYer-___= 
nacned. 

Db=====================================~D 
~----------------------------------------------------~------------------~------------~~--------------~-------------------­
Wednesday, .February 15, 1989 The Observer page 3 
Mbembe speaks on African situation 
By JIM LANG News Staff 
Politics, religion, and culture in post colonial Africa were the subjects of visiting Professor Achille Mbembe's lecture Tuesday night in the Library Auditorium. 
Mbembe, associate professor of history at Columbia, traced the early 1980's uprisings of a particular Islamic sect in Nigeria, the Yat Tatsine, in or­der to discover more general trends in the tense relations be­tween religion leaders and po­litical authorities in Africa. 
This sect, inspired by the charismatic and controversial preacher Mai Tatsine, led five armed insurrections against the Nigerian security forces be­tween 1980 and 1985, said Mbembe. 
"Mai Tatsine was capable of articulating the political and 

AP Photo
Birthday boys 

moral perspectives of the lower class and inspiring them against an upper class protected by a corrupt police force," Mbembe said. 
Although Africa has never 
been short of bizarre fanatic 
sects, Mbembe explained that 
the petroleum boom of the '70's 
and its political and economic 
repercussions set the precondi­
tions for the Yat Tatsine's shat­
tering social upheavals. 
The Christian Church is also widespread in Africa, he said, but they play a far less political role than the Islamic, focusing . more on such activities as con­structing and maintaining 
schools and hospitals. 
While the African people look to the Christian Church for these necessary aids, they rely 
An old version on the G.l. Joe doll holds up two of eight inches or so, but G.l. Joe's popularity remains 
on the Islamic for guidance and 
the newer models being produced at the Hasbro toy strong as he turns 25 years old.
support in their political en­
company in Pawtucket, R.I. He may have shrunk by 
deavors, Mbembe said. 
All-campus SYR with dating service finalized 
By MAURA KRAUSE Staff Reporter 
The campus-wide SYR was the main topic of conversation at last night's HPC meeting. 
A computer dating service that can match one dorm sec­tion to another, two roommates to two roomates or singles to singles will be available. Prizes will be awarded every 15 minutes with a grand prize of a trip for two to Chicago, com­plete with limosine, being awarded. 
The SYR, scheduled for March 24, is a direct result of a student government survey. The survey showed a need for more out of dorm events for the entire student body. Tickets for the event are $3 per person and $6 for couples. 
The event will be held in North Dining Hall and students will have their hand stamped so they can enter or leave at will. 
Also covered at the meeting was the upcomng Air Force ROTC community service proj­ect. In coming weeks, the ROTC will be selling bracelets engraved with the name of a Vietnam or Korean War POW or MIA. The braclets are $5 and come in red or silver. Upon or­dering, students can request a specific name, service or home state. 

"Money from sales goes to theN ational League of families for the support of families of POWMIA's as well as for the continual search for them,, ac­cording to the ROTC informa­tional flier. 
Also, tickets are needed for the Louisville basketball game. The game is scheduled for the first Saturday of spring break and St. Hedwig's Outreach Center plans to attend. 
Gorbachev: Perestroika working but problems remain 
Associated Press dustrial, construction and workers at the Communist 
transport workers that led the Party Central Committee of­
MOSCOW-President Mikhail evening television news, Gor­fices. "Not everything is Gorbachev emerged from bachev said his perestroika simple, not without abnor­nearly a month out of the public program has solved many malities. Life is tense, both eco­eye Tuesday to tell the nation problems in political, economic nomic and social life and in the Soviet leadership still has and social life. But he said work collectives and the sharp differences over his perestroika itself has created party." reforms but remains commit­many problems. Gorbachev, who is party gen­ted to them. "Now we see how difficult the eral secretary as well as pres­
In a 17-minute speech to in-new problems are," he told ident, has said before that the 
Journalistic Writing as an Instrument of Peace also: Peace Education 
Coleman McCarthy, editor writer for 
mgt tuds~ington J)ost 
4 to 5:30p.m., February 17, 1989 
at the Center for Social Concerns 
Refreshments will be served following 
the presentation 
Sponsored By:Keenan Hall The Center for Social Concerns College Fellows -Arts and Letters Institute for International Peace Studies College of Arts and Letters The English Department The American Studies Department 
Kremlin leadership doesn't al­ways see eye-to-eye. On Tues­day, however, he gave a more detailed explanation of the dis­cord over perestroika. 
"In the beginning, as a mat­ter of fact, it even flabber­gasted us. I will say that we also didn't know everything, that is those who are sitting here next to you," said Gorbac­hev, flanked by nine of the 13 members of the ruling Polit­buro. 
"Even we don't know every­thing and are still figuring out what's what. But all the same, from this exchange (of opinions), sometimes the shar­pest of exchanges-which as a matter of fact are continuing -we crystalized the conclusions which make up the foundations of perestroika." 
He touched the familiar themes of the importance of the individual in making his over­haul of society work. 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for 
the following position: 
Accent Copy Editors (3) 
Please contact Beth Healy at 283-1264 or John Blasi at 283-2163 or 239-5303 
INTER VARSITY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP 
Bible Study 
-No, we don't do athletics. "Varsity" is just an old word for "University". -What we do is: Meet each Thursday to discuss the 
Bible. -This is an interdenominational group. .. While the group as a whole is Christian, non­
Christiana and undecided who want to know more about the Bible are very welcome. -In the past, we've had students from hoth SMC and ND as well as graduate students. 
We meet Thursdays, 7pm, in 317 Lewis. Just come and see! Or, if you have any questions, call Jim (283 1621) or Eileen (283 3897). 
----~-­
page 4 

Senate bill aimed at drug dealers 
Associated Press By broadening the seizure laws, he said, the state could 
INDIANAPOLIS-Drug "make more of a dent" in those dealers would be required to drug profits. give the state a bigger chunk Under the bill, 40 percent of of their illicit earnings if a bill the revenues generated from endorsed Tuesday by the In­the special court fees would go diana Senate is passed into law. to the Indiana State Police for 
Senate Bill 351, approved 49-drug investigation and labora­0, would establish a new court tory work, 25 percent to the De­fee ranging from $100 to $1,000 partment of Correction to treat for people convicted of drug­inmates addicted to drugs, 25 related offenses. percent to a drug prosecution 
"That money then is to be fund, and 10 percent to local plowed back into the fight law enforcement programs. against drug and alcohol S.B. 351 was not the only part abuse," said the bill's sponsor, of Gov. Evan Bayh's anti-drug Sen. James Monk, D-Sullivan. . package to receive Senate ac­
In addition, S.B. 351 would al­tion on Tuesday. low authorities to seize weap­Another component, S.B. 402, ons, communications devices was approved by the Senate and other property used in the Public Policy Committee on a commission of most felony 12-0 vote. drug transactions. They cur­The bill would set up the rently may seize only cash and Hoosier Alliance Against vehicles. Drugs, a quasi-governmental, 
non-profit corporation that 
r 
The property then could be would provide funding, coor­Associated Press vice by paying back the $14,673 The Swansons were secretly used by law enforcement offi­dination and other assistance ROTC scholarship in a lump married a week before they dis­cers or could be sold, with the for drug and alcohol abuse pro­CHICAGO-The U.S. army sum. "In most cases it is ac­appeared. Their ransacked car 
r has ordered a college student, cepted," Capt. Charles R.
I proceeds going to anti-drug ef­grams. was found in a Chicago alley 
who set off a nationwide search Wade, an ROTC spokesman. with the engine running,f forts. Jeffrey Modisett, who is when he ran off with his new "I won't appeal," Swanson
The idea, Monk said, is to hit heading the state's anti-drug leading to fears of foul play.
• 
wife to find "perfect love," to said Monday. "I will enlist."
r drug dealers "where it really efforts, said the funds would be serve four years as an enlisted Swanson violated his ROTC The couple turned up
I hurts, and that's in the pocket­directed primarily to local un­
I book." school corporations and com­man to work off his ROTC contract when he and his wife, harmed July 27 in San Diego, 
Monk called the drug indus­munity volunteer organiza­scholarship. Carolyn, 23, disappeared April where they said they had been try one of the great growth in­tions that need funding for spe­Scott Swanson, 24, will be 2 before he had completed his living under assumed names, dustries of the past 20 years. cific programs. permitted to finish college, military and academic obliga­pursuing "perfect love." 
delaying his induction to active tions at Wheaton College, a
"Many people who are the Although the bill would allow Maj. Gen. Robert E. Wagner,
duty until as late as May 1990,

heads of the drug industry don't the alliance to receive state private Christian school. He the national ROTC command­
officials said. Swanson is had been scheduled to graduate
do drugs themselves, they're funding beginning in 1990, er, issued a statement Monday
working as a sales representa­last May. saying he had determined thattoo smart for that," he said. Monk said the measure is de­tive and continuing his educa­Had Swanson completed the 
However, he stressed that signed to be a mechanism for Swanson willfully evaded the 
tion at an unidentified college. requirements, he would have
they are eager to make profits raising and distributing terms of his ROTC scholarship from the sales of their illegal private monies for anti-drug ef­Swanson can appeal and, if had to serve four years as an and is disenrolled from the 
products. forts. the Army approves, avoid ser-officer. Army ROTC program. 
to the victims, but he directed spokesman Earl Slack said day, and analysts said they ap­"The government has once government prosecutors and Pathak's order "was based on proved of the settlement. again come under the pressure attorneys for the Danbury, its review of all pleadings in In Bhopal, a city of nearly 1 from the lobby of multination­
Gas 
continued from page 1 

Conneticutt-based company to India and the U.S., applicable million people, many als," said Abdul Jabbar Khan, Supreme Court, and quashed submit a detailed agreement law and facts, and the enormity politicians and activists were who mobilizes demonstrations all criminal charges, including Wednesday. of human suffering that re­angered by the settlement. of gas victims. one of culpable homicide filed quires substantial and immedi­"This is a betrayal of the gas Many of the victims of the in 1987 against former Union "This is a fair and just settle­ate aid." victims," said Babulal Gaur, a disaster live in burlap and Carbide chairman Warren An­ment," said Gopal Sub­Union Carbide's stock price state legislator from the oppo­cardboard shacks, and were derson. ramanium, one of the chief gov­soared $2.1212 to $31.25 a share sition Bharatiya Janata Party. unaware of the settlement be­
Pathak gave no details of ernment attorneys. in early trading on the New He called the settlement cause they are too poor to own how the money should be paid In New York, Union Carbide York Stock Exchange on Tues-"negligible." radios. 

Correction  Remember These?  
In a correction Tuesday, The Observer incorrectly re­ f:Pttii ~h<J::P: ..::.<}~ Yf;,d:~ ~.i:~t(:1 ~~~ll-~ U S -S$vs.•J i~'~  
ported the day of a manda­ 
tory meeting for student  
government candidates. The  
meeting was Tuesday, Feb.  
14 at 7:30p.m. The Observer  
regrets the error and any in­ 
convenience this may have  
caused.  

Think of your best friend. 
Now, think of your best friend dead. 
Dm't~drunk. 
Reeder's Digest 

Get Involved In These! 
,.,-.. ~ 0~\l\ ...() ,0"'
., . ()~ 
t'>'i) ,~\ \'i ~ e.'(\t";< c\li:J~ c,\<> 1>-~ ""~~ ,1;.os., i,>."' .;.<\ c ,,\~' An"'f'..,. 4.!' 1 ~ i
0-('><•'' ~e.· ! • \ v ;;;It .... l ·0 £!'~ c.)..<• ----~ 1'}-<:~~.. \ ,o<:>~v;..~~ Apn\23 ,l., ,..? ..~,'I':! ,,c'O· ._<;:. 
-,..\1<-j:)v. \"'' r:P'

'0~<,__,;\'~,,.,. Organizational Meeting Wednesday Feb 15. 6:30 pm
1 

~5'~ SUB office, 2nd Floor LaFortune -All interested please attend.....,.~-=--._. 
Aoolicat!oos avail for 89-90 SUB oosjlioos 
Eiec Committee Due Peb. 22 
Commissioners due March 1 S 
page 5 

U.S. budget calls for more spending 
Associated Press Appropriations Committee, and Sen. Jim Sasser, D-Tenn., 
WASHINGTON-The Bush ad­the budget committee chair­ministration, saying its 1990 man, told Bush in a letter Tues­budget speaks for itself, day that if he failed to provide declined Tuesday to provide more detail, Congress would additional details on spending "have no alternative" but to as­cuts and insisted they be sume he endorses the program · shaped through negotiations cuts proposed last month by with Congress. then-President Reagan. 
Bush's budget, which he un­Bush budget director Rich­veiled Thursday in his first ard G. Darman, White House major policy speech before Chief of Staff John Sununu and Congress, called for expanded congressional budget leaders spending to cover a host of met Tuesday afternoon. campaign promises. Sununu was coy with reporters 
Other than calling for freez­regarding how much new infor­ing military spending at the mation he would provide the level of inflation, the spending Congress before leaders outline was vague on where agreed to full-scale negotia­other specific areas of spend­tions. ing would be restrained to meet "It's not a question as to whe­deficit targets. ther the detail is available, it's "This budget is alive and is a question of whether you do it
White House undecided on MX missile an active force subject to a step at a time," Sununu said. change in negotiation and dis­Bush plans to travel around cussion," presidential spokes­the country to build public sup­
Associated Press The decision could have Minuteman and the 10­
man Marlin Fitzwater told port for his budget plan. 
major ramifications for the fu­warhead MX and similar weap­
reporters. He travels to Columbia, S.C., 
WASHINGTON-The White ture of strategic arms control. ons in the Soviet arsenal. 
He said the administration on Wednesday to highlight the House will not meet a deadline Brent Scowcroft, the presi­In 1983, Scowcroft was head 
would have no separate pro­budget measure in an appear­set by Congress for deciding dent's national security ad­of a presidential commission posal for filling a spending gap ance before the state legisla­whether to continue building viser, has argued for years that on strategic forces during the estimated at $9.6 billion to $11 ture. Bush spoke Monday toMX missiles or switch to a a single-warhead missile such Reagan administration and ad­billion to help pay for expanded business and civic leaders insmaller, single-warhead mis­as the Midgetman weighing vocated development of the social programs Bush advoca­Manchester, N.H.
sile dubbed the Midgetman, it about 15 tons as opposed to 100 Midgetman. 
ted in his $1.16 trillion spending Fitzwater denied Bush's
was annouiH:ed today. tons for the 10-warhead Mx plan. budget road show was an effort "We are reviewing the entire would ease the problem of vul­Fitzwater said the White 
"We'll be providing details to make an end-run around
strategic posture of the country nerability to attack from the House will send a report to as we go along....Everybody Congress, as Reagan had done and it is logical and necessary Soviet Union. Congress on Wednesday ex­knows cuts have to be made," in building public support for
that we postpone this major plaining that the administra­
Fitzwater said. some of his initiatives.
decision until the review is A smaller missile with only tion is conducting a review but 
Congressional Democrats Instead, the spokesman said, complete," said White House one warhead would be a far less omitting any decision regard­have complained that Bush's the trips were just "an oppor­press secretary Marlin inviting target to Soviet war ing the MX or Midgetman or budget allows him to claim tunity for the president to dis­Fitzwater. planners and could be the basis other type of small intercon­credit for proposing more cuss his priorities" and an at­A bill approved last year stip­for arms control agreements tinental ballistic missiles. 
spending on social programs, tempt to stress his intention "to ulated that $350 million which based on counting the number He said he could not estimate 
was earmarked for the MX pro­of warheads, not launchers. when the White House would such as those affecting the work with Congress." homeless, child care and edu­gram could not be spent until Currently, the number of reach a decision but noted that 
cation, while making sure
the new administration in­launchers is the key element in Bush has instructed his na­
formed Congress of its long­arms control agreements. That tional security advisers to Congress shares responsibility 
range intentions. It set a dead­has spurred development of report within 90 days on its for coming up with unpopular 
cuts in other programs. 
line of Wednesday for the multiple warhead weapons, overall review of national se­Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D­decision. such as the triple warhead curity policy. 

Vice President lsi Leibler and others affix mezuzuhs to the doors. 




W.Va., chairman of the Senate 
MEGGASYSTBMS 
RJBSllMS SERVI.CB 
Personal on campus service for one low
ion's 
p.]:'ice. 

call 234;;..2347 (days) 287'-5329 (ev.) 
ASK FOR. SOB 
r-----~--~--~------·-----------------------~
I I I I 

Over 100 Centers Nationwide Offermg Proven Preparation For The Bar Exams Of: 
California Florida Massachusetts New Mexico Texas 
Colorado Illinois Michigan New York Vermont 
Connecticut Maine New Hampshire Pennsylvania Virginia 
AROUND THE WORLD
Dist. of Columbia Maryland New Jersey Rhode Island 
TOKYO •HONG KONG •SHANGHAI •BEUING •SINGAPORE JAKARTA •BANGKOK •BOMBAY •DELh, •MADRAS FRANKRIRT •Afr1E~ •ISTANBUL• BUDA?tST PAR5 •COPENHAGEN •HELSINKI• STOI.KHOlM LONDON •BERUN c ZURICH •HAMBURG 
Fall of 1989
I

STANLEY H. 
General Information Meeting 
KAPIAN-SMH 
Wednesday. f-ebruary 15. 1989 700p.m. 
I

Memorial Ubrory AUditorium 
BAR REVIEW SERVICES 
I 
I

KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER I 1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. I
ALL ARE WELCOME! I 
I

SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 I 219/272-4135 I I 
~----------------------------------------~ 

~-----~ 

Wednesday, February 15, 1989
page 6 The Observer 
Physician charged with illegal abortion and feticide 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind.-A Bloomington physician was formally charged Tuesday with one count of feticide and two counts of unlawful abortion for allegedly performing an illegal abortion on a 19-year-old woman who was six months pregnant. 
James Howard was arrested Monday. He was taken to the Monroe County Jail where he posted $5,000 bond and was released, a jail spokeswoman said. 
A warrant had been issued by Monroe Circuit Court Judge James Dixon for Howard's ar­rest. 
Monroe County Prosecutor Bob Miller testified at a hearing on Tuesday that he learned of the abortion after re­ceiving a call on Oct. 9 from Monroe County Coroner Dennis Troy, who was concerned about his responsibilities in the case. 
Miller said he then spoke with Bloomington Hospital pat­hologist Anthony Pizzo, who told him that a 6-month-old male fetus had been examined by hospital pathologist Charles Ellis. The fetus had been produced through an elective abortion performed by Howard on October 7, according to Piz­zo. 

The woman who had the abortion said she thought she was only three months preg­nant, Miller said. 
Miller said he had medical records in the case reviewed by a doctor outside Monroe County. On Thursday, that doc­tor reported that the fetus could potentially have survived, Mil­ler said. 
In the charges, Miller said Howard did not perform the abortion in a properly staffed hospital, that the fetus would have survived and that no second doctor was present. 
In an October 27letter to Mil­ler, Bloomington Hospital chief of staff Walter Owens said the staff's executive committee had concluded that while there probably was a technical viola­tion of the law, the violation resulted from "misjudgment by the physician, rather than criminal intent." 
Howard had received a lim­ited suspension of his hospital privileges and was ordered to have consultation with other physicians on similar cases in the future, Owens said. Howard also was ordered to receive 300 hours of continuing medical education. 
Miller said in a November 1 letter to Owens that "criminal intent is not a relevant consid­eration" in the matter and that an investigation would be con­ducted. 
Indiana law sets forth spe­cific requirements for doctors to perform abortions, with dif­ferent requirements depending on the stage of the pregnancy, Miller said. 
Feticide is defined by law as terminating a pregnancy for reasons other than "to produce a live birth or remove a dead fetus," unless the abortion is performed in compliance with state law governing abortions. 
Under Indiana law, an abor­tion can be performed during the first three months of a preg­nancy by a licensed physician in his office if the woman has signed a release form. If the patient is unable to sign a release, an abortion can be per­formed to save her life. 



Code 
continued from page 1 
"I just think you shouldn't 
have to be told to be 
honest...how to be 
honest. ..rather than just the 
assumption that you are 
honest, " said Hannnan. 
Thomas Swartz, professor of economics and collegiate fel­low, College of Arts and Let­ters, said he has worked with the honor code as a member of the Academic Council and as part of a graduate student teaching seminar. "I'm pleased to see the honor code progress with so few bumps and bruises," said Swartz. 
He said that he was very im­pressed with his freshman honors course who had no prob­lems with the honor code. They just assumed their courses would be on the honor code, said Swartz. 
"I think that the Administra­tion is doing this (implementing an honor code) so they can be compared to prestigious schools that have honor codes like Stanford and Yale," said Kevin Reisch, a freshman. The honor code may work in the future, but right now it is not being accepted by the students, said Reisch. 

Reisch said the honor code doesn't bother him because he doesn't cheat anyway. "Everyone has to accept it (the honor code) for it to be effec­tive. I just don't see it right now, but maybe down the road it will work." 
But according to the Obser­ver poll, many students see cheating as a problem at Notre Dame. Most students polled said that "a little" or "a fair amount" of cheating goes on at Notre Dame. However, stu­dents polled seemed to think less cheating went on in their own classes as opposed to campus-wide. 
Gerlach says that there should be large enough rooms for test-taking because stu­dents should not be tempted. He suggested that having night exams might alleviate this problem. 
"People with high standards of integrity have to be respon­sible for other people," said Gerlach. "We have to 'love thy neighbor.' " According to Ger­lach, if you correct another's cheating, he or she probably won't do it again. 
A question about the honor code concerns the idea of non­tolerance. Students often sit next to people they know and an awkward situation can arise. "What kind of friend puts his friend in that position?" said Gerlach. 
"The honor code carries a great deal of responsibilty, but this isn't the kind of responsi­bility that students want. It is the kind that will come in real life," said Fraser. 
Fraser has put some effort into insuring that his students are not in a postition to cheat. He has a test-day seating ar­rangement and makes as many as four copies of each test. 
Fraser's lower level class is automatically under the honor code while his upper level class votes on the honor code. Last year in his predominantly senior class four students in a class of 15 voted in favor of the honor code, said Fraser. 
The faculty may have prob­lems with the honor code be­cause of an ambiguity in their role, said Fraser. One problem is that the faculty is supposed to be present in the room as a resource person, yet they also may see a violation while gazing around the room. Fraser said that then their role is being misstated. 

Another problem faculty might find, according to Fraser, is with an added responsibilty to make sure that students don't have the oppor­tunity to cheat. An example would be by making different tests, which to some is a real burden, said Fraser. 
Junior Joe DiMaria, an ac­counting major, said that voting on the honor code occurs in some of his classes. Some­times it is a vote on a piece of paper, said DiMaria. "In some of my classes, the teacher has just had us raise our hands. I think that when they do it that way the vote is even more against the honor code." DiMaria said that none of his classes have ever had a unan­imous vote. 
"I think the reason most people are against the honor code is that they don't want the responsibility for turning someone else m," sa10 DiMaria. "1, myself, don't know if I'd be able to turn some­one in if they were cheating." 
According to DiMaria, one 
Year of Cultural Diversity 
Sponsor: College of Business Adtninistration Topic: Marketing to an Expanding Minority 
Community Presenter: 
Time and Place: 
Robert A. Toledo 
Wednesday, February 15th
Vice President for 
4:30pm
Brand and Promotions 
Hayes-Healy Auditorium 
!diller Brewing Company 
Business
Wednesday, February 15, 1989 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK--The stock mar­ket's early-1989 rally has hit its first snag, but the optimists of Wall Street profess not to be concerned. 
In the face of negative news on inflation and a renewed rise in interest rates, a stretch of five consecutive weekly gains that coincided with the start of the new year came to an end this past week. 
Many analysts say they wouldn't be surprised if the "correction," or period of retrenchment, lasted a while longer. 
But the bulls argue that such a sequence would actually rep­resent a happy development for investors who didn't get a chance to join in the party ear­lier. 
"Signs that the current rally is maturing continue to pile up," said Joseph Feshbach, technical analyst at Prudential-Bache Securities, in his latest market appraisal. 
Over the next few weeks, Feshbach says, the market may well undergo a "con­solidation" in which the major averages fall somewhere on the order of four to seven per­cent. 
No decision yet on how to spend Bowl money 
By JOHN O'BRIEN arrive "sometime in April." as other depatments," said 
Business Writer Associate Director and Busi­Beauchamp. 
ness Manager of Athletics The net profits from the 1988 
The fate of the $3 million Joseph O'Brien said that the ex­Cotton Bowl and the 1988 NCAA 
purse from the 1989 Sunkist act amount available to the postseason basketball· tourna­
Fiesta Bowl is still undeter­University will not be known ment were given to the athletic 
mined. until a final accounting of the endowment fund, said O'Brien. 
According to University Ex­costs of the game is tallied. Beauchamp, however, said ecutive Vice President Father that the money "does not auto­William Beauchamp, the dis­"Expenses such as airfare matically go to the athletic de­
tribution of the net profit from for the team and band, ground partment. While the athletic the game will not be known un­transportation, hotel costs, and department and the University til "late in the year." the official party are lumped are connected, the money is together and subtracted from part of the University's overall 
"The officers of the Univer­the $3 million" said O'Brien. picture for the year."sity will make the decision late Beauchamp said that the in the year, after we see what decision regarding the distri­According to O'Brien, the the overall financial picture of bution of the money is done on athletic endowment fund, the University is," said Beau­a year to year basis. which is administered by Beau­champ. champ, was originated to sup­
On the basis of a contractual "In the past, the money from port non-revenue sports. "It agreement with the Fiesta post-season games has gone to was estabished between 8 and Bowl, the $3 million will be paid an endowment fund for 10 years ago. There hasn't been in a single payment which, ac­minority scholarships, the ath­any money dispersed from that cording to Beauchamp, should letic endowment fund as well fund as yet," he said. 
Students offer tax help to low-income taxpayers and students 
By VALLI VAIRAVAN This year's service started The prerequisite to working Business writer Saturday and continues until for TAP is a federal tax course. "When you're filing a tax April17. The program itself is Requirements of the TAP 
return, you are talking about in its 18th year, and has been course are the seven trainingthe blood, sweat, and tears of receiving a very positive sessions taken prior to par­real people. It's not a problem response from the community. ticipating in the public service, in a textbook," said Ken The junior and senior account­and six hours of answering tax Milani, faculty coordinator of ing majors, who run the pro­questions on the telephone,the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's gram, do between 1600 and 2000 Milani said. College Tax Assistance Pro­tax returns a year, and they do gram (TAP). their best to make sure the tax-Lynn Mohammad, a senior in 
The student-run program, payers get the most returns on TAP said, "It is a good way to part of a one credit business their taxes, Milani said. apply what I've learned to the course, offers low income If a difficulty or problem working world. The best way($20,000 a year and below) tax­arises that the student is unable to learn is by application." payers and students free assis­to deal with, they are sent to Milani commented that stu­tance in preparing federal and the main centers, which have dents were not in the program state tax returns. certified public accountants for the one credit. 
There are ten different loca­and sometimes professors to "For many students it is tions, each with a student su­help. their first encounter with cer­pervisor, scattered throughout tain segments of the population South Bend and Mishawaka. Fifty Notre Dame and Saint that they have no reason to The one located on campus is Mary's business students are meet and deal with. So that in in the Center for Social Con­spending about three hours a and of itself is a learning expe­cerns. week at these locations. rience,"said Milani 
Inverted yield curve may predict recessions 
By LOUIS RUKEYSER Tribune Media Services 
Predicting a recession is like figuring out what's on a young man's mind: It's the curves that create the inter­est. And that's why a num­ber of economists have begun to focus on the emer­gence of what they call an "inverted yield curve," a signaled phenomenon that in the past has usually--though not always--signaled a recession ahead. 
Since most economists have been crying "wolf" ever since the record recovery began in 1982, a certain amount of skep­ticism is in order when they insist that this time we real­ly, really are going to plunge into a national recession. 
But the "inverted yield curve" has not previously appeared during this expan­sion, so it's worth under­standing. The politicians have not, after all, abolished the business cycle, and one , of these days a downturn is inevitable. 
As with most things in­volving the arcane world of professional economists, there is argument about everything from what an "inverted yield curve" actu­ally is to whether we are in fact having one in early 1989. 
The basic idea, though, is that it's bad news for the eco­nomy when short-term inter­est rates get higher than long-term rates. Usually, the longer the tinaturity, the higher the interest the bor­rower has to pay. Such an inversion occurs when the monetary authorities at the Federal Reserve are tightening money severely in an effort to slow economic growth and curb inflation. 
The Fed's actions send short-term rates up, since there's less money around to meet the overheated demand. But long-term bond buyers, assuming that the result will indeed be to retard inflationary pre­ssures, are willing to settle 
for lower interest rates on 
their commitments. 
Charies Lieberman, of Manufacturers Hanover Se­curities, says the potentially ominous situation has been in place since Dec. 6, when the interest rate on three­year Treasury securities exceeded the yield on 10­year obligations. 
Lieberman calls this the tenth "inverted yield curve" since 1953, and figures that a six of the previous nine were precursors of reces­sion. That's considerably less than an infallibile predictor, he notes, adding that many of the other con­ditions that typically preceed a recession, includ­ing flagging incomes and bulging inventories, are not 
in place this time around. 
The more likely result of the current inversion, he concludes, is an extended period of rising interest rates at all maturities, with yields on 30-year Treasury bonds reaching between 10.5 and 11 percent by the middle of this year. The Fed won't ease, he predicts, "until eco­nomic growth slows to a sus­tainable pace of about 2 per­cent. 

A different definition of the "inverted yield curve" comes from Robert Barbera of Shearson Lehman Hutton, but he reaches a similarly optimistic conclusion. 
Barbera's criterion for an inversion is met when the yield on one-year U.S. Trea­sury bills rises above that on 10-year government notes; this has just occurred. By that test, there were five in­versions since 1959. 
But Barbera says it makes a significant difference when "real" rates (the gap between current inflation and current interest rates) are already high, as they are now. He suspects, as a result, that "a break in the 
U.S. rate rise will occur in the next three to six months." 
Then there's Benjamin Wolkowitz, of Morgan Stan­ley, who says it's not an "in­verted yield curve" until the yield on three-month Trea­sury bills, Uncle Sam's shortest maturity, gets higher than long-term 
bonds. By that test, we were recently still a hair away from a true inversion. By Wolkowitz's measurement, we've had five inversions since 1965 and four were fol­lowed by recessions. 
Where does that leave us? Not so much with a sure thing as with a warning. The Fed can read history too, and it knows that "inverted yield curves" tend to last too long (14 to 23 months) and to bite harder than planned. 
Given an array of prob­lems whose solutions depend on continuing economic growth (from the budget deficit to the S&L bailout) , the Fed's current restric­tiveness could be followed by timely ease, leading to moderate but continuing ex­pansion. 
Viewpoint
page 8 Wednesday, February 15, 1989 
Time to change attitudes at NO 
"Notre Dame girls are fat! Yeah, Sports Illustrated!" These are the words yelled out of a window today as I passed one of the men's dorms on North Quad. Before I could locate ex­actly where it came from or was able to respond in some manner, the indi­vidual had closed his window and retreated to his own ignorance and in­sensitivity. 
Daniel Buckley 

guest column 
I am a graduate student at Notre Dame, having returned this past June after receiving my B.A. from Notre Dame in 1984. The comments concern­ing "fat chicks" and abusive comments aimed at women who decide to have a second helping at dinner or some ice cream for dessert are, sadly, not new to this campus. Lately, a controversy of sorts has arisen over the latest swim­suit issue of Sports Illustrated. But I would like to reach beyond this narrow concern to address an underlying prob­lem that pervades not only our univer­sity but society as a whole: insensitive attitudes. 
Eating disorders are extraordinarily complex. I was aware of that long before I attended a feedback session concerning the eating habits of Notre Dame women last week in Lyons Hall. During my senior year, I began dating a woman who, as it turned out, was suffering from anorexia nervosa. The physical effects of this ailment during the 2-lt2 years that we dated were easy to see. Her 5'5" frame was one time as light as 86 pounds, her menstrual cycle stopped completely, her hair thinned noticeably, she constantly felt cold (hypothermia), and she was an exer­cise fanatic. Yet, she continued to "feel fat." She was, in almost every way, a classic anorexic. 
But the physical aspect was truly only the tip of the iceberg. Her family dynamics, the attitude of society in gen­eral telling her that the thin body is a beautiful body, her own compulsive na­ture, my own enabling behavior, all combined to contribute to her disorder. When we ended our relationship over two years ago, she had started to see a counselor, was receiving medication to fight the depression that accompa­nied her anorexia, and was making tentative strides toward helping her­self. I can only hope that her long-term outlook is positive, that her ability to have children will not be impaired and that she has not done any permanent physiological damage to herself. 
But this is not meant to be a summary of my experiences with eating disor­ders. Rather, it is a challenge for both the men and the women on this campus to examine their own actions and atti­tudes. Gentlemen, whether you know it or not and whether you like it or not, the manner in which you speak of others has an impact. We all need to consider the ways in which we refer to the women in the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community. The term "babe" has not applied to these students since their parents purchased that last box of Pampers for them 18 to 20 years ago. "Chicks" is a puzzling word as well. I know of no women on campus who were hatched or who are small, yellow, and fuzzy. "Broad" is probably the most disappointing term of all. I'm sure we all know that the primary use of the word broad is as an adjective, and ad­jectives simply do not walk, talk, go to class, and ask you to an SYR. 

I am certain that the vast majority of men on this campus mean no harm in the terminology they use, and some of them probably use such words at times in an effort to be humorous. But words are powerful things, affecting our images and attitudes. By referring to the women in this collegiate environ­ment as "babes, chicks, and broads," we show a blatant lack of respect for them and for our abilities to communi­cate with them as fellow human beings. We need to stop and think about what we say and what we do. We need to take responsibility for our own atti­tudes, and we need to explore just what it means to be a Christian in our social interactions as well as other facets of our lives. 
I do not mean to condemn the entire male population beneath the dome. I know an awful lot of young men in my own dorm and across campus who are extremely sensitive to women and to all people. Yet their voices need to be heard and their examples need to be seen. Challenge thE~ men in your dorms to respect their roommate(s). In an in­sitution based on the principles of higher learning an the example of Jesus Christ, there is no place for disrespect and insensitivity. 
And women, there are some things that you can do, too. Support each other in your efforts to overcome the expec­tations society may place upon you. Af­firm each other for who you are, not just for what your external appearance might be. Don't allow others to deter­mine what you should do and how you should look. Challenge the men in your lives to respect you simply because you are you. Challenge your women friends to examine some of the negative atti­tudes and stereotypes they may hold concerning the men on this campus. If we allow ourselves to become caught in the quagmire of animosity and close­mindedness, we shall never realize our full potential as a community. We need to reach out to each other in a spirit of respect and sensitivity to achieve such a goal. 
Daniel Buckley is l:he Assistant Rector of Pangborn Hall 
P.O. Box Q 
Professor corrects misconceptions 
Dear Editor: 

I would like to correct a couple of misconceptions that your Feb. 9 article "Speaker Focuses on Working Women" might have left in your readers' minds. I was not the "organizer" of the Gender Studies Lecture Series. The organizing of the three-speaker series was done by a committee of over ten people. Pro­fessors Regina Coll, Suzanne Marilley, Joan Aldous, Kathleen Biddick, Jennifer Glass, and Linda Hudgins were among those who worked hard administering the series. 
And it was not a "difficult task" to bring a feminist speaker to campus be­cause of Notre Dame's "patriarchal na­ture," but because there lacked a group before this year which was willing to do the difficult work required to bring any sort of speaker to campus. 
Teresa Ghilarducci Assistant Professor ofeconomics February 13, 1989 
Student defends 70s pop culture 
Dear Editor: 
Regarding Steve Megargee's article on Friday, Feb. 10, I would like to add that music in the 1970s should not be negatively viewed. It was a decade of turmoil that needed ways of ventilating social pressures. Vietnam, Watergate, Abscam, and the gas crunch among others left the American people quite uncertain of themselves. However, the "pop culture" became a logical reponse to the needs of the people and produced the music that pulled the younger generations together. Now, as we casually refer to that music as "clas­sic," please don't criticize the culture that produced it. Instead, if you must, criticize the 1980s when bands such as Will To Power are reduced to mutilat­ing our "classics" because of their lack of imagination and creativity and the people that support them. 

Long gone are the days when rock-n­roll was geared for outperforming the like of British punk and disco. Today, we are left with an amalgam of European techno-pop garbage that floods the air waves with constant repetition for the sole purpose of being in the Top 40. Don't be deceived into believing that the measure of musical worth of a song lies in its position in the commercialized Top 40 or the amount of money it makes. Even though bands like Will To Power are out there, just remember that imitation is the greatest form of flattery. Do you think anyone will imitate their songs in the next decade? 
Rick Jackomis off-campus Feb. 10, 1989 
The Observer retains the right to edit all commentaries submitted to the Viewpoint department. Please note that 
the  more  con1cise  the  piece,  
the less  we  will have  to  edit It  
to fit our space.  

Doonesbury Gary Trudeau Quote of the Day 

'Irs not enough to aim, you must hit.' 
-ltalii:.n Proverb 


Editorial Board 015erations Eloard 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the studenls of the Un~vers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College It does not necessanly reflect the polic1es of the adminiStration of e1ther institution The news IS reported as accurately and objectively as  Edttor-m-Chtel Managmg Editor News Editor News Edtfor Vtewpomt EdtUM Sports Edttor.  . Chns Murphy . Chris Donnelly Regis Cocc1a Mark Mclaughlin .... Dave Bruner Marty Strasen  Busmess Manager Adverttsmg Design Manager Advertising Manager Productton Manager Systems Manager Controller  .. John Oxnder Molly Killen Linda Goldschmidt Bernadette Shilts Mark R1dgeway Todd Hardiman  
possible Unsigned ed1tonals represent the op1n10n of the ma1onty of the Ed1tonal Board Commentaries. letters and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column  Accent Edttor Saint Mary's Edttor  ...... Beth Healy Sandy Cerimele  Graphtc Arts Manager  Marga Bruns  
space IS ava1lable to all members of the community and the free express1on of varying  Photo Edttor  Michael Moran  
op~n~ons on campus. through letters. is encouraged.  

Founded November 3,1966 

Accent

Wednesday, February 15, 1989 page 9 
Need some legal help? Help is out there 
I 
students to know what we're cial representation. Precisely KYM MACARTHUR here for," said Smith. for this reason, Smith and accent writer Dugan explains what Dugan stress the free advice Campus Legal Services does given on how to approach a n the basement of the law by outlining what they will legal problem. At the very building exists a force pow­not do. They will not take on: least, the student is told to erful enough to help Notre criminal cases, traffic viola­inform his or her parents Dame staff, faculty, and stu­tions, civil cases involving about the matter, which dents make a clean getaway large sums of money (they enables them to pursue a logi­from the confusion and en­don't take fee-generating cal course of action. When tanglement of legal ignor­cases), or alcohol-related faced with a legal problem, ance. cases. the easiest answer often 
The Legal Aid and Clients of Legal Aid must seems to be, "I'm just going Defender Association, under meet the national poverty­to plead guilty ... get it over the executive direction of Liz level guidelines. Third-year with." The people at Legal Smith and the professional law students working in the Aid, however, would give dif­supervision of South Bend Legal Aid intern program ferent advice. "It will put it attorney and Notre Dame appear in court (with Broden) behind you, but it will catch professor Thomas Broden, to represent the client. Accor­up, via graduate school and offers legal counsel to clients ding to Smith, this is "one of job applications," said in six areas. the big appeals (for interns)-­Dugan. 


Started 25 years ago with it is a clinical experience." The interns at Legal Aid Post-conviction Remedies, Law students may either will attempt to help whenever Legal Aid has continually volunteer or earn credit for possible. Occasionally, Dugan added new divisions, the most working at Legal Aid. Each admits, "You have to get so recent being the Legal Clinic intern chooses one division in involved to give intelligent for the Homeless, run in con­which to work; division direc­advice ... (that) we'll send junction with the downtown tors keep regular office them to an attorney." shelter in South Bend. hours. Smith feels that the This candid statement 
Campus Legal Services, clients' convenience comes reflects the honesty and con­headed by Maria Dugan, first: "We have real clients cern of Campus Legal Ser­deals with legal problems with real problems and we vices, "You explain what the most pertinent to the Notre want to be a real law office process is and it makes it a (short holidays are taken Dame community. However, for them." lot less frightening." said before the start of fall semes­most students are not aware Students may overlook Smith. ter, between fall and spring of this particular service. Campus Legal Services be­Legal Aid is open from 9 semesters, and at the end of "We are concerned ... we'd cause, as dependents, they a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday spring semester). Dugan like the staff, faculty, and often do not qualify for offi-through Friday, year-round summed up the ultimate chal-
Equestrian Club--riding high 
L 
PAIGE SMORON leather gloves, he competed 150 million cheering fans. Equestrian Club. Formed last Sheedy, Treasurer Margie accent writer in his first horse show. Knute Rockne would've been year by a student, Jane Guido, and senior Paul Kelly. ast year, junior Danny Anticlimactically, Gordon proud. I was the Fifth Horse­Heisel, and headed by Liz If the team does well in Gordon fulfilled a child­placed seventh out of seven man that day. I didn't win, Holtz as Club President, the regionals, they could go on to hood dream. He wasn't al­riders, of which six received but next time--I was gonna Equestrians have met with the nationals in Maine. lowed to wear a six-shooter or ribbons, but he was un­be John Wayne." success from the start. wave to the crowd, but daunted. "What a feeling!" Gordon is one of the more Members pay one fee for decked out in chaps, cowboy said Gordon, "I was represen­lively personalities of Notre As members of the Intercol­the semester. According to boots, a ten gallon hat, and ting Notre Dame in front of Dame and Saint Mary's new legiate Horse Show Associa­Gordon, "Money is definitely 
tion (IHSA), they compete no object where the against universities such as Equestrian Club is concerned. Northwestern, Purdue, and $150 buys you more horse in a 
Illinois, as well as ride for semester than Roy Rogers or fun. At their first show, rider John Wayne could round up." Paul Kelly won Reserve High Point Rider (2nd place for the Faculty adviser Steve total points accumulated Hayes usually accompanies throughout the show), and by the team to the shows for the end of the season, Notre moral support. They most Dame was ranked third in its recently traveled to Ball State region, which stretches from University, where Paul Kelly Iowa and Colorado to Indiana. took 4th place in the Open 
Fences class and 5th in Open 
Attendance is not manda­Flat; Peggy Sullivan finished tory, but members usually 3rd in the Intermediate Flat receive two lessons a week at event and 5th in Intermediate the Kensington Riding Center Fences; Kerry Sheedy won in South Bend, owned by 1st place in Novice Flat and Leanne Miller, who is well 4th in Novice Fences; and known in the Stock Seat cir­Margie Guido received 3rd cuit. The team is trained by place in the Novice Flat Trish Wolf and Chris Kerner, class. who also coaches the nation­Upcoming shows will be at ally acclaimed Culver Mili­Purdue the weekend of tary Academy polo team. February 24, and there will 
be a show with the univer­Senior Theresa Welthman, a member of the sities of Northwestern and 
The skills that the riders N[)SMC Equestrian Club, practices on her learn in practice are tested at Taylor in April. the weekend horse shows, Calvin and Hobbes 
Bill Watterson where they compete in both Some aspects of horse Stock Seat (Western riding) riding are more memorable and Hunt Seat (English than others, especially for riding). . those who room with mem­Even though the Equestrian bers of the Equestrian Club. 
Club is relatively small com­"The equestrian experience is pared to the teams they face far from short lived," said in competition, several mem­Gordon, "As a matter of fact, 
bers regularly show and will most of Notre Dame's il­probably qualify for the lustrious yet dynamic team regionals in Indiana: Club carry it with them beyond the President Theresa Weithman, stables ... it's the odor. It's Vice President Peggy Sul­that something special setting 
livan, Secretary Kerry them apart." 
The ObseNet>Stacy St. Gennalne 
horse Ripple at Kensington Riding Center in South Bend. 


I
I I 
Sports Wednesday_ednesday,Fe~a~15,1989
page 10 


_Scoreboard ! __ 1lrish Hockey 
Player, Pos. GP G A PTS PIM PPG GW SHMen's basketball (14-5) Dave Bankoske RW 36 11 34 4'',I 8 2 1 3Notre Dame 83, USC 74 Tim Kuehl, RW 35 18 15 3::1 35 7 2 1Boston College 83, Notre Dame 72 
Bobby Herber, RW 35 13 19 3''<. 70 3 0 1 Matt Hanzel, LW 35 18 10 2EI 30 7 2 0
Women's basketball (15-6) Bob Bilton, C 34 6 15 21 16 1 0 0

(9-Q In MCC) 

Kevin Markovitz, D 29 7 13 2(1 52 3 0 1Notre Dame 71, Evansville 55 Bruce Guay, W 32 6 8 1~. 58 1 2 1Notre Dame 78, St. Louis 34 
Pat Arendt, C 28 8 6 1~· 22 0 1 0 Michale Curry, LW 35 5 8 1::1 22 1 0 0
Hockey (9-25-2) Lou Zadra, LW 30 3 7 1(1 34 1 0 0Michigan 6, Notre Dame 2 Rob Bankoske, RW 32 4 5 9 8 0 0 0Michigan 5, Notre Dame 2 

Kevin Patrick, D 34 4 5 9 24 1 0 0 Tim Caddo, D 31 2 6 8 54 0 0 0
Men's tennis (6-2) William Hoelzel, D 29 2 5 7 18 0 0 0Notre Dame 6, Akron 1 Brian Montgomery, C 31 3 4 7 10 0 1 0Notre Dame 5, Toledo 2 Andy Slaggert, RW 21 2 5 7 2 0 0 0Notre Dame 5, Bowling Green 2 Mark McCiew, RW 28 2 4 6 30 0 0 0Notre Dame 6, Illinois 3 

Michael Leherr, D 35 1 3 4 42 0 0 0 Michael Musty, OW 15 1 3 4 8 0 0 0
Wrestling (8-3) Chris Olson, LW 10 1 3 4 6 0 0 0Notre Dame 37, Miami (Ohio) 7 Roy Bemiss, D 31 1 2 3 33 1 0 0Indiana 18, Notre Dame 16 

Bruce Haikola, D 6 0 2 2 10 0 0 0 Marc O'Sullivan, G 3 0 1 1 0 0 0 0
Men's track Tom Fitzgerald, LW 8 0 1 1 4 0 0 0Central Collegiate Championships Robert Copeland, D 20 0 1 1 0 0 0 0Raghib Ismail, 1st, 55-meter dash: 6.29 (track Bill Lerman, RW 3 0 0 0 6 0 0 0record) Phil Shaffalo, RW 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0John Cole, 6th, high jump: 6·8 3'4 

Scott Vickman, D 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Lance Madson, G 35 0 0 0 2 0 0 0
Swimming Notre Dame 36 118 185 303 604 28 9 7Men's (7-4) Opponents 36 176 250 4215 563 34 24 10Notre Dame 139, Illinois-Chicago 96 Scoring by Periods 1 2 3 OT TWomen's (6-6) Notre Dame 33 46 3E: 1 118Notre Dame 157, Illinois-Chicago 80 

Opponents 51 68 5!:1 2 176 
Sports Calendar Goattenters MIN RCD G GAA SVS PCT so 
Lance Madson 2098 8-25-2 171 4.89 1235 .878 1 Wedr1esday Mark O'Sullivan 86 1-0·0 5 3.49 44 .898 0 Notre Dame 2183 9-25-2 176 4.86 1279 .878 1
Hockey vs. LAKE FOREST, 7:30 p.m. 
Opponents 2183 25-9-2 118 3.11 1058 .908 2 
Thursday Men's basketball vs. LaSALLE, 8:00 
p.m. AP Basketball Poll Ba~eball Poll 
Top Twenty AP Top Twenty 

Friday The Top Twenty college basketball teams in The The Top Twenty college baseball teams Wrestling vs. CENTRAL MICHIGAN, 
Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren-. . with first-place votes in paren­theses, this season's records and total points Points theses, th1s season s records and total points. P01nts
7:00p.m. 

basad on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents basad?~ 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents 
Men's tennis vs. Murray State  are italicized.  are Italicized.  
Source: Thoroughbred & Harness Racing Actio~ NHL Standings  The Observer I Laura Stanton  Saturday Women's basketball at Loyola Men's tennis at West Virginia Sunday  1. Oklahoma (58) 2. Arizona (2) 3. Missouri (2) 4. Georgetown 5. Illinois 6. Syracuse 7. Florida State (1) 8. North Carolina  21-3 18-3 21-4 18-3 20-3 21-4 19-2 19-5  1273 1162 1096 1001 988 974 813 791  1. Miami 2. Fk>ricfa State 3. Texa.s 4. Oklahoma State 5. Florida 6. Fulle,~on St. 7. Anzona St. B. Wich1ta St.  5..() 6-0 5-0 0-0 7-0 3-2 8-3 0-0  496 495 489 485 483 480 476 473  
Montreal Boston Buffalo Hartford Quebec  WALES CONFERENCE AdamaDtvtlllon w L T GF 38 15 6 225 23 23 11 191 25 26 6 207 23 28 4 202 21 32 6 202  GA Pia. 169 82 185 57 218 56 196 50 254 48  CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Smythe Dvlslon w L T GF GA Calgary 40 11 8 254 167 Los Angeles 30 22 5 288 247 Edmonton 29 24 6 247 222 Vancouver 22 29 7 189 191 Winnipeg 18 27 10 213 246  Pia 88 65 64 51 46  Men's basketball vs. HOUSTON, 2:00 p.m. Men's tennis vs. North Carolina Monday  9. Indiana 10. Louisville 11. Duke (1) 12. Seton Hall 13. Mich1gan 14. West Virginia 15. Iowa 16. Ohio State 17. Stanford  20-5 17-5 17-4 20-4 18-5 19-2 17-6 17-6 19-5  752 731 641 631 502 468 382 315 238  9. Texas A&M 10. California 11. MISSissippi St. 12. Arizona 13. Geor·~ia Tech 14. Louisiana St. 15. Stanford 16. Clemson 17. Southern Cal  3-0 7..() o-o 10-1 Q-1 2..() 5-5 0..() 7-1  471 468 467 462 459 455 452 448 447  
Women's basketball at Tennessee  18. UNLV  16-6  202  18.  South Carolina  Q..(J  443  
Pittsburgh NY Rangers Washington Philadelphia New Jersey NY Islanders  Patrtck Dlvlalon 31 20 5 255 2 0 20 8 27 12 10 204 27 27 3 215 21 26 10 210 18 34 3 175  235 67 226 24 189 64 193 57 235 52 230 39  Detrort St. Louis Minnesota Chicago Toronto  Norrie Division 25 24 9 226 21 25 10 195 18 25 13 189 19 31 7 216 18 33 5 163  226 201 210 242 233  59 52 49 45 41  Tuesday Men's basketball at DAYTON Hockey vs. WESTERN MICHIGAN, 7:30p.m. Men's tennis vs. INDIANA  19. NC State 15-5 163 20. Louis1ana Stale 17-6 74 Others receiving votes: Georgia Tech 50, Provi­dance 40, St. Mary's 32, UCLA 20, Minnesota 18, UTEP 18, Ball State 13, LaSalle 13, Oklahoma State 11, Alabama 10, Pittsburgh 6, Arkansas-Little Rock 5, Arkansas 3, Evansville 3, Georgia Southern.  19. Oklahoma State 20. Arkansas 21. Fresno St. 22. BYU 23. Hawetii 24. Santa Clara 25. Wasr,ington St.  Q..(J Q..(J 1-4 2-1 4-2 7-3 Q..(J  440 437 429 427 423 418 417  

NBA Standings
1 
Eeatem Conference 
Atlantic Dtvlalon 

w L Pet. GB New York 32 16 .667 
• 
Site: Mesa • Slte:Phoenix 

• 
Stadium: HoHoKam Park • Stadium: Phoenix Stadium 


Philadelphi11 26 20 .565 5 Boston 23 23 .500 8 New Jerse)• 18 29 .383 13.5 Washington 17 28 .378 13.5 
2-ANGELS 6-PADRES 
Charlotte 13 35 .271 19 Central Dtvlalon 
ARIZONA • Site: Mesa & Palm Springs • Slte:Yuma 
• Stadium: Gene Autry Park • Stadium: Desert Sun Stadium 
Cleveland 35 11 .761 Detroit 31 13 .705 3 
Milwaukee 30 15 .667 4.5
3-INDIANS 7-GIANTS
Phoenix 
Atlanta 28 19 .596 7.5 
Chicago 27 19 .587 8 Indiana 11 35 .239 24 
•1,2,4,7,8 • Slte:Tuscon • Site:Scottsdale 
• Stadium: Hi Corbett Field • Stadium: Scottsdale Stadium 
Western Conference 
Midwest Dlvlalon

4-BREWERS 8-MARINERS
Tuscon 

w L Pet. GB 
.3 .•. • Slte:Chandler • Site:Tempe 
Houston 2B 18 .609 Utah 28 20 .583 1
• Stadium: Compadre Stadium • Stadium: Tempe Diablo Stadium 
Dallas 24 21 .533 3.5 Denver 25 23 .521 4 San Antonio 13 33 .283 15 
Miami 5 40 .111 22.5 
Pacific Dlvlalon LA Lakers 32 15 .681 Phoenix 29 17 .630 2.5 Seattle 28 18 609 3.5 Golden State 25 20 .556 6
• Site: Sarasota • Site: Lakeland • Site: West Palm Beach 
Portland 25 21 .543 6.5 Sacremento 14 32 .304 17.5 ?LA Clippers 11 37 .229 21.5 
• Stadium: Ed Smith Stadium • Stadium: Marchant Stadium • Stadium: Municiple Stadium 
Wednesday's Games Atlanta at New Jersey 

2-BRAVES 8-ASTROS 14-METS 
• Site: West Palm Beach • Site: Kissimee • Site: Port St. Lucie 
Indiana at Philadelphia 
New York al Cleveland

• Stadium: Municiple Stadium ·Stadium: Osceola Stadium • Stadium: St. Lucie Complex
10 
Washington at Denver Seattle at Phoen1x

3-0RIOLES 9-ROYALS 15-YANKEES 
San Antonio at Golden State 

• 
Site: Miami • Site: Baseball City • Site: Ft. Lauderdale 

• 
Stadium: Bobby Maduro Stadium • Stadium: Boardwalk & Baseball • Stadium: Ft. Lauderdale Stadium 


PGA Money 
PGA money leaders

4-REDSOX 10-DODGERS 16-PHILLES 
1. 
Mark Calcavecchia $358,952 

2. 
Steve .Jones 347,375


• Site: Winter Haven • Site: Vero Beach • Site:Ciearwater 
3. Sandy Lyle 269,845
• Stadium: Chain O'Lakes Park • Stadium: Holman Stadium • Stadium: Jack Russell Stadium 
4. 
Mark O'Meara 194,500 

5. 
Gene Bauers 178,393


11-TWINS 17-PIRATES 
6. 
Tom K~e 168,000 

7. 
Paul Azinger 155,400


• Slte:Piant City • Site:Orlando • Site:Brandenton 
8. Chip Beck 147,271
• Stadium: Plant City Stadium • Stadium: Tinker Field • Stadium: McKechnie Field 
9. David Ogrin 109,369 
10. Jim Ca.rter 109,088
6-RANGERS 

11. Lanny Wadkins 100,627
12-CARDNIALS 18-BLUE JAYS 
12. Steve l'ate 93,508
• Slte:Port Charlotte • Slte:St. Petersburg • Slte:Dunedin 

13. Bill Glasson 88,200
• Stadium: Charlotte Stadium • Stadium: Grant Field
·Stadium: AI Lang Stadium 

14. 
Fred Couples 85,565 

15. 
Dave nummells 74,000 


---------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------~~ 
Wednesday, February 15, 1989 The Observer 
page 11 

Astros (Kissimmee) and Min­like Notre Dame, we have to Total FG percent-.545. 3-Pt percent· 
nesota Twins (Orlando). .615. FT percent-.682. Team rebounds· 1.
Spring Eagles 
play near oerfect basketball," 
Turnovers-13. Assists-14 (Barros, Benton
Along the Gulf Coast, you'll said . Barros .. "We haven't 4). Technicals-none.
continued from page 16 
find the Texas Rangers in Port continued from page 16 won in a month. It feels good." 
you (and I can see why), the Charlotte, the White Sox in Notre Dame (72) 

Boston College improves to 
M FG-A 3P-A FT·A R F P

ballpark is part of a larger Sarasota, the Phillies in Clear­of his own to give Boston Col­9-12, while the Irish will bring Ellis 34 4·11 o-o o-o 10 3 8
park, the Boardwalk and water and the Blue Jays in lege the lead for good at with a 14-5 record into Thursday's J. Jackson 35 7-14 4-9 o-o 5 3 18 Baseball Amusement Park Dudenin. St. Petersburg, the 12:02 to play. Robinson 37 1-4 o-o 5-6 6 2 7
game with LaSalle. Fredrick 35 8-14 2-4 4-4 3(Baseball City actually is a city with a dome but without Fredrick continued to hit 4 22 
Singleton 31 3-5 o-o 2-5 o 4 8
place within the town of Haines the White Sox, hosts the St. from the field, but it was not Tuesday's Results Tower 2 o-o o-o o-ooo o City, and it consists only of Louis Cardinals. enough to keep up with the Boston College 83, Notre Dame 72 Bennett 16 3-11 Q-2 o-o 0 3 6 Boston College (83) Sweet 3 1-2 o-o o-o o 2 2
Boardwalk and Baseball). The If venturing back to Arizona Eagles. Two more Harros 
M FG-A 3P-A FT-A R F P Paddock 1 o-o o-o 1-2 2 o 1Royals host Boston on Sunday is your desire, you could catch three-point field goals ex­C. Jackson 12 0-2 0-0 0-0 2 1 0 27-61 6-1512·172621 72 March 5. the Cubs in Mesa before they tended the lead to 10 with 3: 15 Able 28 4-7 o-o 3-4 7 5 11 Total FG percent-.443. 3-Pt. percent­
Beasley 38 2-5 0-0 0-2 7 2 4 .400. FT percent-.706. Team rebounds· 3.
Their neighbors in central migrate north to Wrigley Field. to play, and Barros put the 
Barros 40 11-19 5-9 3-5 5 1 30 Turnovers-8. Assists-16 (Singleton 11 ).
Florida include the Detroit Irish away for good with two Benton 4011-17 2-3 5-7 7 2 29 Technicals-none. Tigers (Lakeland) and Cincin­And you thought all there was driving layups in the final Edwards 9 0-2 0-Q 0-0 1 4 0 Halftime-Boston College 42, Notre nati Reds (Plant City). In Dis­to do on spring break was lie Moran 21 2-3 1-1 4-4 3 1 9 Dame 36. Officials-Art Willard, Don
seconds. Pruitt 12 o-o 0-0 0-0 4 2 0 Edwards, Norm Nelson (all MAC). 
ney's shadow are the Houston in the sun. "In order to beat these teams 3G-55 8-1315-223618 83 Attendance-9,818. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
2 ROOM EFFICIENCY SINGLE PER-JUNIORS HAPPY BIRTHDAY MARCIE! HAVE A To our "SMCers":SON 288-0955 ­
FORMAL PROOFS ARE HERE

I NOTICES PERSONALS 
WILD AND CRAZY DAYII WE LOVE What do a golf cart, ceiling fan, KnHe.
COME SEE YOUR MUG SHOTS AND 
YOUII noose, toilet, and a basketball goal have BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219­
TYPING AVAILABLE PLACE ORDERS AT THE CLASSIt's hump day, GET ~ Mike? LOVE THE CLIC in common? They all have had their own
291-7153. fun w~h your HOGANII 
Love. 

287-4082 OFFICE THIS WEEK t.aPM 
HOUSES FOR STUDENTS NEAR N.D. 
LAW SCHOOL: Start your Bar Review OJ NEEDED: SYR FEB 25th. CALL TOM Take a wild guess Typtng-Wordproceulng ADOPTION
663-86119-2n-3097. 

Hrly. ~plan-SMH revle-1o many AT x2742. 237·1949 Loving,secure married couple unable to
statu available here In South eend. P.S. HOGAN lives H and only H "BUD" 2 HOUSES FOR RENT (4 BR & 5 BR) 
conceive seek to edopt. Can pay le­
Trenllfer beck home for eummer. Dis­is returned unharmed and cleanedl!l
IN SAME BLOCK. FURNISHED.VERY gal,medical exp. Pis call collect Chris & Thank you St. Jude for the ordination of
count• for Kaplan LSAT alumni. SERVICE. Susan,
EXPERT TYPING CALL GOOD CON DITION, SAFE 703276-9751 Completely con­a female liberal black bishop. Now let's
Reaerve before March 2 Call2n-4135. Laurie You Goose! Thanks! MRS. COKER, 233-7009. fidential.
NEIGHBORHOOD.233-9947 AFTER 5 try for one in the Roman church.
Aek tor Sue. Love, VinnieOR 287·3530 KIRSTEN JOHNSONNEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks lor LEANNE & SHEILA
SUMMER JOBS CASHII Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash 
HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY

ALL LANDWATER SPORTS Heyl What's everyone "Rave"ing
LETS HOPE TONIGHT WILL MAKE UPor Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK GREETINGS FROM L.A.
PRESTIGE CHILDREN$' CAMPS about? All campus SYR­808 Howard St. just off of N.D. 
FOR
WANTED 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR Feb. 24 Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 
THE LAST 9 MONTHS.
LAKE 

233-2342 ADOPTION-Caring, financially secure LOVE THE MUFFINS 
COUNSELORS-Boys camp in Berkshire PLACID. CALL 1-1100-343-8373 
couple of Irish and Swedish ancestry
Mts., West. Mass. Good Sal.,room & There's no need to sleuth 
ATTENTION-GOVERNMENT HOMES wish to love. cherish, and raise your new­
bd,travel allowance, beautiful modem It's clear what's been done 
from $1 (U-Repalr). Delinquent tax born child. Legal and confidential. Please LOST: ONE PAIR CONTACT LENSES 
faciiHy ,must love children & be able to SPRING BREAK DAYTONA. Spend Someone is impersonating 
proparty. Repo...aatona. Cell 802-one of following: 7nlridllye et ereek'a call Unda and Craig COLLECT: 212·8n-I PUT THEM IN THE WRONG EYES; Ned Nickerson
teach the Tennis, Spring HOT­MAYBE YOURS? CALL FRED T.
838-8885 Ext. GH6262 3574 
W.S.I.•Sailing TEST reaort, The Clarendon Pleze Waterski,Basebaii,Basketbaii,Soccer home of Penrod'II'The Plantation Club GRIFFIN & SPARKS 
Wordproceulng-Typing SPRINGBREAKSPRINGBREAKSPRING
LaCrosse,Wood,A&C,Rocketry, Photog­and the largest pool deck ON THE Two Guys, Two Gu~ars
FREE FUN FLICK FREE FUN FLICK272-8827 
raphy,Archery,Pioneering, BEACH! $195 per pereon limited ''The STONE PUPPIES"
FREE FUN FLICK
CANCUN

Ropes,Piano,Drama.Call or write: Camp apace. Cell today ereekewey Toure 1· -s· hotel on the beach, and much FOOTLOOSE 
Winedu,5 Glen La.,Mamaroneck, NY 800-444-7384. McCORMICKS 
SAVE TIMEI"How To Report On a Book more. 6 spaces left. FOOTLOOSE 
10543. (914)381-5983 Wed. Feb. 15
FOOTLOOSEYou Haven't Actually Read." Send call John x1694.

BRIGHTEN YOUR LIFEII MEET THAT SENOR KELLY'S 
$10: Box 15071 Columbus, OH 43215 ································································ Tonight at THEODORE'S Doors open at 
NO LAw achool atudenta to be repa SOMEONE SPECIAL THROUGH OUR Thur. Feb. 16
SPRINGBREAKSPRINGBREAKSPRING 8:()()1 Movie begins at 8:15 
1or ~plen-SMH Bar Review cou,.... SINGLES CLUB. INTRO SINGLES Eem tree bar review courae plua SS'a. CLUB, BOX 3006, BOSTON, MA 02130. "The STONE PUPPIES" 
Yes, I do like nachos at the Night Oak. 
FRENCH & ARABIC. experienced tu1ors Cell 272-4135. Aak 1or Sue. 
Mary & Mohammed 287-4336. CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING are pine coladas, (plus the other things you 
................................................................ RIGHT TO LIFE 
................................................................ comingIll mentioned), but I'm pretty confused. 
COUNSELORS-GI~s camp in Maine . RIGHT TO LIFE KEENAN KIDS
Please get in touch ~h me and let me Good sal,room & bd.,fravel allowance, WOMEN'S CARE CENTER PHONE-A­The Sculster
Feb 18 9 to 1 Hagger Hall SMC know what's going on. 
beautiful modem facility,must love THON Beware the BUM RUSH
OC SEMI SEMI FORMAL Tim
I LOST/FOUND I 
children and be able to teach one of the FEB. 6-8 & 13-16 96 Days
ITS A BASH P.S. Thanks for the chocolate. 
following:Tennis, W.S.T.•Sailing 2ND FLOOR ADMIN BLD, 8:30-9:30 
LIVE BAND

Waterski,Soltbaii,Basketball, Soc­GIVE LIFE A FIGHTING CHANCE
LOST: 30 Macintosh diskettes from my REFRESHMENTS
cer,LaCrosse,A&C,Photography, Horse­ALL VOLUNTEERS WELCOME IRISH LUNCH
MARK WACHTERcar in C1. The importance of those disks BRING 21DS

back.Dance.Piano,Drama,Ropes Camp W~h live music, Thursday at the CSC,
TO THE TALL, GORGEOUS, SEXY,cannot be exagerated. $$$ for informa­Tx on sale M to F in the OC Lounge
Cralt,Gymnastics.Cali or write:Cemp 11 :30am to 1:30pm. $3 
tion leading to the return of them. Please or call 271-8419 MUSCLE BOUND LOVE GOD-HAPPY 
Vega, Box 1n1 Duxbury. Mass. 02332 Proceeds to benefit participants in the
BELATED VALENTINES DAY.
call # 4936 or 289-1628. Or H you alreedy 
(617)934-6536 Completa haircut end atyte with Peg­Northern Ireland Seminer.
? (CE)have them, please return them to 230 gy; Special Price of: $7.00 tormen and 

Knott Hall. No questions asked. If anyone is going to ST. LOUIS this
AniiNTioN~tiiFiiN'Gi'C3~~~;;;;;;;;~ij;;~: $10.00 tor women. Cell C08Imo'a STONE PUPPIES STONE PUPPIES
weekend, and needs a rider, please call Need 2 GA's to LaSalle game on
your area $17,840-$69,485. Call 1-602-Shepea and Linea for en appointment. STONE PUPPIES 
LOST: I lost a gold bracelet that my par­You won't be dlaeppolntedl 277-1875. Juli x3762. Will share all expenses. Thursday Night. Call Pete at x4601,
838-888 Ext. R6262 

ents gave to me this X-mas somewhere x3155 or 239-5637 .........................•..... 
................................................................ St. Edwerd'a Hell Forum 
between South Dining Hall and 06. If JOBS.$900-2000 mo. I need a ride to Indianapolis this
GOVERNMENT J08SI OVERSEAS Presents Fr. Richard McCormick. S.J.,
found, please call Chris x2894. $$$ weekend. Will pay gas. Please call Col­
NOW HIRING THIS AREAl $10,213 TO Summer,Yr.round.AII Countrlee,AII Swim -•Y !rom JPW at the FRESH­and Professor Leslie Griflin speaking on
leen x3764

$75,473. CALL (REFUNDABLE) 1.a15-ftelda. Free Into. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-"Here's Where We Stand on In Vitro Fer· 
i.~N WINTER BEACH PARTYLOST GRAY GLOVE AT CUSHING ON 
733-e062 EXT. F-2382H. IN04, Corona Del Mar, CA 92825. tilization and Other Human Reproductive 
LAST FRIDAY IF HAVE, PLEASE CALL I need a ride from anyone going to or by Techniques," tonight at 7pm in the St.
Frashmen Winter liNch Party et Workers needed to run SUB movies Rolfn Aquetlc Center Feb111ery 17 6­JOHN AT 2132 Dayton, OH leaving 31.! or 3'4 call x4431. 
hlag Ed's 1st-floor lounge. $25 for 4 hours work 10pmLOST: A PAIR OF BURGUNDY 
4 nights a month on Thurs.• Fri., Sat. ATTENTION ALL JUNIORSIII 
GLASSES IN A CASE SOMEWHERE CORNELL
from 8·12 pm Call239-n57 ask for Maria Activities at the FRESHMEN WINTER PLEASE SAVE A MAN THAT IS ABOUT 
SUMMER JOBS

BETWEEN HAGGAR AND 02 P-LOT AT GOING THAT WAY 3'4? RETURNING 
................................................................ TO BE DISOWNED BY HIS PARENTS. 
ALL LANDWATER SPORTS BEACH PARTY Include water volleyball MANPOWER NEEDED 6-9 PM MON­PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS and basketball and lnnertube water polo My brother is coming up for Junior Par· NO OR SOMEWHERE AROUND a-12? NEED A RIDER? X2966 
MCCANDLESS, ITS PARKING LOT, OR FRI. ents Weekend and I need an extra ticket 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS $5otiR. PLUS PRODUCTION tor the cocktail perty and the dinner. HTHE OINING HALL AT ST. MARY'S. Have to be here for Break? Make $sl 
Frashmen Wln111r liNch Party et BONUSES. CALL 3-5 PM 818-683-CALL 1-800-343-8373 Rolfes •nd mixer In the JACC .ttar­you have and extra ticket for either pleaseANY INFO, PLEASE CALL 284-5409 NEAR LAKE PLACID Matt King, a blind student, needs readers 
both now and over break. Call 1681.

8191. call Mike at x3331. I am willing to work
w•rd• IIIIa Friday. LOST: A BLACK EELSKIN WALLET out any deal in order to save my JHe.
REGINA-McCANDLESS FORMALII DID THURSDAY NIGHT EITHER IN FRONT Wanted: FEMALE VOCALIST
NEED EXTRA INCOME? Find out about 
seMiisTiiFi·A·FiouNo.Ttiewoiiiii.iN:. 

YOU BY CHANCE TAKE HOME THE OF BRIDGETS OR SOMEWHERE BE· FORMATION MEETING WEDNESDAY tor acoustic folk-rock band. Must have
our Remarkable Residual income Oppor­"OEVILMAN DOUG"
WRONG COAT?? POSSIBLY A CAS. FEBRUARY 15 7:00PM MEMORIAL LI­
TWEEN D-1 PARKING LOT AND BADIN tunity! US SPRINT provides the best time,talent,desire... call # 1803 or # Thanks for getting everyone to tease
SIDY BLACK AND WHITE ONE, size &8 
HALL IF FOUND PLEASE RETURN TO value long distance ser-vice in America ... BRARY AUDITORIUM BE THEREII 2546--Joe Frank just to sp~e me. I can't believe you 
petit petite?? PLEASE CALL 284·5178 329 BADIN OR CALl SHANNON AT ................................................................
because it's the ONLY wholly-<>wned even got Reggie to go along wHh it. 
3690. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. nationwide 100% FIBER OPTIC Net­JULY R Anyway. the fact still remains that -stil
SOPHOMORES 
HELPII WE NEED A RIDE TO N.Y.

work. Become an Independent Marketing had a better time. So, guys from Flanner
WE RTAKING U Rep lor Network 2000 TODAYI 21S234-58, ask Frank how hla dele was. K. 
SOPHOMORES (ITHACA AREA) FOR SPRING BREAKII 
LOST: Brown wallet at the Rock on The DATING GAME is coming! PLEASE CALL MISSY AND SUE 284-2 DINNER THURS Friday. Call Chris x1851 or return to 5723 PLEASE ACCEPT
5456. 

Rock. Reward-no questions!! ................................................................ j;fiii'PA'Rifia···;;(jft··siicoNo...imii: TOP 15 REGINA FORMAL QUOTES 
LOVE YOUR CZECHMATES ANYONE GOING TO OR THRU IT­15)Stop jumping on the bedsl 14)Going
VIEWS 
THE CHARITY BALL 

FOUND! SEIKO quartz WATCH call283-HACA,NY FOR SPRING BREAK? I PLANNING THE on safari,Pat? 13)Look, Buddy. I pald lor
FOR OFFICE 
IS COMING SOON!!

NEED A RIOEI CALL CHRIS AT x1073. your
1166 to identHy VISIT.-PLANT TRIP. A PRESENTATION TO MY "PLAYFUL" ROOMMATES 
................................................................ Pete's Plants just wanted me to ticket
GIVEN BY MARILYN BURY, ASSis­REGINA-McCANDLESS FORMAL!! DID TANT DIRECTOR, CAREER & PLACE· tell you-your !em's readyl
WANTED: Ride to IU Bloomington.VI7 12)Stimie, get with your date. 11 )H could
CHARITY BALL MEETING YOU BY CHANCE TAKE HOME THE MENT. HESBURGH LIBRARY
Brian 1927 have been worse, Laura
Thursday. Feb. 16 

By the way. THANKS for the balloons
WRONG COAT, A CASSIDY BLACK absorbed all the heal
i:i'esP'iiR'Aiii.v·····N·eeo ..... i:i.ioi····:ro 
LOUNGE, TODAY AT 6:30P.M. 7:00 p.m. Sorin Room and the moral support-! could not 1 O)They're getting their guns out! 
AND WHITE ONE, SIZE &8 PETITE? 
Very lmportantllllll 

ask for three better friends(snift) 
LAUDERDALE FOR SPRING BREAK 2 They're going to third floor! 
j;'iie.PA.iiiN(i···;;c;Fi···siicoNo...iNT£~

CALL 284-5178. 
We need your help!!! 

-Ally
PEOPLE TO GO# 3270 DAVE They're going to our rooms!
VIEWS LOST: SOMEONE TOOK MY RED CW PLANNING FOR THE OFFICE 
9)She remembered the vodka, SKI JACKET FROM THE CCE SATUR­................................................................ but forgot her dress
VISIT.-PLANT TRIP. PRESENTATION To two gorgeous. blonde Czechs, Happy 

Summer Jobs Now Accepting Applica­
8)WHAT THE HELLII 7) Liz, the hour IDAY NIGHT. PLEASE RETURN IT GIVEN BY MARILYN BURY, ASSis­

Valentine's Dayl Love, Your Favonte 

tions Large resort on the East Entrance spent wHh youSINCE IT'S MY ONLY JACKET AND I TANT DIRECTOR, CAREER I PLACE· Month Glacier Park.
CAN'T AFFORD A NEW ONE I'LL AS­FOR SALE MENT. HESBURGH LIBRARY to National Montane was the best hour all night 
looking for students interested in summer 6)1 could just blow my nose on yourSUME IT WAS AN HONEST MISTAKE. LOUNGE, TODAY AT 8:30P.M. PATRICK'S T-SHIRTs•••
···sT. DAY 

employment for the following positions; sleeve.
I'U EVEN GIVE A REWARD FOR THE 
sponsored by the Marketing Club. Hot 
W~ers, Bartenders. ~chen help, cooks,
JACKET OR INFORMATION WHERE IT ATTENTION-GOVERNMENT SEIZED ;:;;;;·N~i~;;;i·F~;;;;i;·Pi~~~~;;g·p;-;;g·;;;;;·~, S)We've got 50 guys from Azarsi-­
Colors! Great for Spring Break. On sale 

retail clerks, maids, cashiers, cocktail
lSI PLEASE CALL SEAN-4784. VEHICLES !rom $100. Forde, Mer­St Joe Co is once again oftering the NO ·oinner: Wed.& Thur. Nile Questions: Beely Eddy's got my Visalll 
waitrons desk clerks, office personnel
cedea Corv-. Chevya. Surplua 4)Just ignore them 3)What did you say
community 2 chances to learn more Lauer $10
Tom x1654. 

Guide. ext: maintenance,fuel attendants, Hour1y perplexed?, I
LOST-BLACK CUMMERBUND AT TR~ Buyera 602-1138-8885 about this sale healthy EFFECT VE way wage including room and boar St. Mary
MILITARY FORMAUI call BRET x1389 A8282 of family planning.Tonight t ere will be mean Stimied. 
Lodge will interview in the Placement 
2)They went to the bathroom and I Center Feb. 20 & 21. Please stop by for hit the floor an introductory session on the natural SOPHHOMORES 
Lost: Gold Pulsar watch. Last seen at methods at 7 at the Coffee Hs at the 
BENDIX WOODS 

an appointment. 
1)1'm e Norwegl•n mango fermer 

12:50 PM Ash Wed. returning CONTINENTAL BUMP-ANYWHERE IN Center for Soc.Con ems.Ciasses for THIS THURSDAYII from the Crypt to engineering U.S.A cheap call steve x283-1079 married or engaged couples begin on 
!rom Guam. LeMans 2nd-floor annex residents 
Thanks everybody for an evening I

bldg. Cannot function wt>ut ................................................................ campus2116.Call266 2662 for more into. SOPHOMORES 
--An NO man's dream come truelll
it. Call Ext. 5330, Paula PICCOLO. silver, Armstrong. $200 like SOPHOMORES will not soon forget. Love • 
new. Mary 287-4336 THE DATING GAME Eliza1..iz-o
HEY MAX (Yes you Max Verkamp) I need a ride to St. Louis this weekend IS FEB 24 Happy Birthdayll'85 FORD ESCORT GT (17th). I will share expenses and driving. CONTESTANTS, SIGN-UP TODAYII You have 364 days of safety left ... Ride needed for three gi~s to 5 SPEED.BLACK,AIR,CASSETTE Please call Jenn~er X2982 PROCEEDS GO TO RUN-AWAY SHEL­ANN ARBOR, MI.FOR RENT ............................. .................................. TER 2 SOUTH QUOTES OF THE WEEKIII this weekendll Call Jen 284-4319
STEREO,MICHELINS ~ 55,750 JUNIORS BUY TICKETS FROM CLASS OFFICE 
1. "Put in something crazy for the2n-8892 WE NEED A SENIOR FORMAL OR DORM REP DON'T MISS ITII Wanted-Ride( one way)to Cinc;{)ayton or
section."

FOUR FLAGS FARM BED 'N BREAK­CHAIRPERSON Oxford area. Will share expenses Becky
3. "Suzanne and Margarita love FAST JUST 20 MINS. FROM NO. IDEAL IF ANYONE KNOWS WHERE "BIG 284-4376APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT 
Debbie."

FOR ALL NO ACTIVITlES. RESERVE 
GUNS" IS, CALL CHANG AT X1973. NOW FOR ALL UPCOMING EVENTS. 
CLASS OFFICE 14PM 4. "H's just a Tuesday." 5. "Schmoo has 
Round trip airplane ticket to Hou. DUE ON WED. GET BACK IN THERE... AHH HA HA HA Andy· We thought that you were on your
wavy hair." 6. "Que Pajal" 7. "Are you616-471-5711. 
Texas.:v.J-a-12.$130. call Mindy x1822 HA HA... way back to Ohio Stale. Bridget and Kerry
excited about JPW?" 
---------~----· --------~-­
Wednesday, February 15, 1989
Paddock sticking to his role 
Junior center concentrates on rebounds, post defense 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
Scott Paddock's high school 
accomplishments, which in­
cluded a weighted grade point 
average of over 4.0 and mem­
bership in the National Honor 
Society, do not indicate any 
background in drama. 
But as a member of the Notre 
Dame basketball team, Pad­
dock has learned all about role­
playing. 
"I think each player has a 
role to play," said the 6-9 junior 
center. "Joe Fredrick's a 
scorer, Tim Singleton's the 
quarterback of the basketball 
team who sets up the offense. 
The role the coaches have tried 
to get across to me is that I 
have to be a rebounder both of­
fensively and defensively, be 
someone who can play their top 
post player inside on defense 
and score on on offensive 
rebound situations close to the 
basket. 
"When I try to play out of this 
role and do other things, that's 
when I find myself getting in 
trouble. When I play within this 
role, like I did against Ken­
tucky and like I did against 
Duke, that's when I help the 
team the most." 
Paddock certainly filled that role just fine in the Kentucky and Duke games. In Notre Dame's 81-65 win over the Wildcats Dec. 3, he scored 10 points and pulled down 11 rebounds in 'J:l minutes. Pad­dock had nine points and five rebounds when Duke dumped the Irish 102-80 two weeks ago. 
In between those games, things were not going quite so well for Plantation, Fla., resi­dent. Paddock went without a point or rebound in consecutive games against Portland and UCLA during a January road trip. 
He scored two points with one rebound in the next game, a 67­45 win at home against South­ern Methodist. That weekend, Paddock sat out the entire game in a 99-87 loss to Syracuse. 
"I thought I started the season out on a very high note, my first four games , espe­cially," said Paddock, whose brother played football at Duke. "In the road trip on the West Coast, I had my prob­lems. I wasn't playing particu­larly well. 
"Once the Syracuse game 
came around, I reached an all­
time low with my college 
career here," Paddock contin­
ued. "Now I'm playing the role 
the coaches want me to play, 
and that's where I'm best." 
If Paddock's performance in the Duke game did not con­vince people that. he had 
Women's Care Center 1' 
PREGNANCY HELP CENTER J 
• 
FREE Pregnancy Tests 

• 
FREE Confidential, Individual & Couple Counseling 

• 
FREE Referral to Support Agencies 


• FREE Confidentia~ Care 
• 
Medical Referral Service 

• 
Post Abortion Counseling 


1 MILE FROM CAMPUS 417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 
24 HOUR HELPLINE]
call lor an appointment
[ 
234·0363 
lr.,~.~----_-------:-•'''_'
~·· :.r,YI , W , -r.'IUE 
~. R ,,;., -~~ 
ttt~~ 

returned to form, his outing in Sunday's game against USC provided further proof. Pad­dock recorded six points and eight rebounds in the 83-74 win over the Trojans. 

-
Scott Paddock 

"Scott's doing a very good job of making things happen for us," said Irish coach Digger Phelps. "He just has to play his role of playing post defense, rebounding and scoring in­side." 
Paddock showed off his rebounding abilities a great deal early in the season, leading the team in that cate­gory three of the first four games. His 4.8 rebounding average ranks third on the team behind starting frontline players LaPhonso Ellis and Keith Robinson. 
His skills are not unusual for a Notre Dame player, as the Irish consistently rank among the nation's best in rebound margin. Paddock attributes much of that to what the team calls the "Manhattan drill." 
"What it entails is the frontline players three at a time line up underneath the basket, and Coach Phelps shoots the basketball," said Paddock. "Obviously, if Coach Phelps is shooting, it's not going to go in. What we do is fight for the rebound, there are no fouls called. There are no rules except that you're to catch the ball and put it in the basket. 
"It gets physical. There have been times when at the end of the drill, there's blood on the court. Through that drill, we really come into our own. " 
Paddock did not have to en­dure too many of those drills his freshman year before he saw quality playing time. In his second collegiate game--a 67­62 loss to Indiana--he scored 10 points with seven rebounds. He 
usually was the first frontline 
player off the bench behind 
Donald Royal and Gary Voce. 
"It was surprising to see me 
play as much as I did as a fresh­
man," said Paddock. "Four 
seniors had graduated the year 
I signed, so it was a pretty good 
opportunity." 

Paddock spent that first year 
learning from Voce and Royal. 
The junior finds himself in a 
different situation this year, 
working with freshmen big 
men Ellis and Keith Tower. 

"There are times when 
you're a rookie and you're not 
going to play that much, that's 
when you need upperclassmen 
to help you through it and tell 
you that your best days are 
ahead of you," said Paddock. 
"That's what our upperclas­
smen, like myself and Keith 
Robinson, have tried to do for 
LaPhonso Ellis and Keith 
Tower. 

"A guy like LaPhonso is get­
ting a lot of playing time and 
playing well, but he still needs 
people who have been through 
it to help him out, not just with 

The Observer I E.G. Bailey 
Junior center Scott Paddock (43) grabs a robound In Sunday's game against Southern California. Paddock h•ad six points and eight rebounds In the victory over the Trojans. 
LAST YUI7,514 HIGH SCHOOL mDENTS SIOPPIED DRIIKIIIG AID DRIVING. 

on-the-court situations but also =IF=======================it= 
with things off the court," said Paddock. While Paddock has worked to 
LEGAL j~ID
help his younger teammates, he also is making sure to avoid 
offers 

anything that may lead to an­
Free legal counseling to
other slump. 

N.D. students, faculty & staff.
"It's been kind of an emotion­al, up-and-down year," said Paddock. "I'm just going to try 
Call 239-77~t5
to stay within my role the rest of the season and help this team 
or visit downstairs N.D. ILaw School 
go as far as we can." 

,­
Happy 22nd Birthday
HAPPY BIRTHDAY 

The yesterdays became today
"Monkman" Big 19 

before we knew it. Our Love for all the tomorrows.
MALLOY 
Pops TunPang SeanEad "Charles" Doc Jude Spook Fred Rob Dutyism Skeeter Mike Savoir-.fare Manteeman Dandor 
''Hey, there, Buddy!!" 


Chimes Literary M88~azine 
now accepting 
PLAYS 
POEMS 
SHORT STORIES ARTWORK 
&ubmit to 303 Madelva, &MC Deadline: March 20 

-------~~---~-­
Wednesday, February 15, 1989 
Another Leahy heads to N D ... for baseball 
Associated Press 
YAKIMA, Wash.--The grandson of legendary Notre Dame football coach Frank Leahy is continuing the fam­ily tradition by accepting an athletic scholarship to the school as a baseball player. 
Pat Leahy, a right-handed pitcher at Eisenhower High School, has made a verbal commitment to attend the South Bend, Ind., school next fall, despite the school's lack of a baseball reputa­tion. 
He is following in the footsteps of his grandfather, who coached Notre Dame in the 1940s and 1950s, and fa­ther Jim Leahy, who played football for the Irish. 
"I didn't try to think of (the) family part of it," Leahy said this week. "Baseball is what I want to do. If anything, I considered the family ties there a draw­back when I was deciding." 
College baseball coaches 
ave been after Leahy for 
onths. 
He posted a 12-4 record last summer with the local American Legion team, in­cluding a 4-1 post-season record as Yakima finished third in the Legion World Se­ries. 
The 6-7, 220-pound Leahy had narrowed his choices to Stanford and Notre Dame in recent weeks, and Notre Dame coach Pat Murphy traveled to Yakima last weekend to deliver a recruit­ing pitch. 
"Notre Dame may not have the reputation in baseball that Stanford has, but it's on the rise," Leahy said. 
He also visited North Carolina, Stanford and San Diego State, and cancelled a visit to the University of Miami. 
Stanford is much better known as a baseball team, but they were so loaded with freshman and sophomore pitchers that Leahy thought he could make a bigger im­pact at Notre Dame. 
----------~------------------~ 
The Observer page 13 
Missouri coach has cancer 
Iowa St. upsets Stewart-less Tigers in Big Eight game 
Associated Press 
AMES, Iowa--Victor Alexan­der and Terry Woods scored 19 points each and reserve Marc Urquhart added five key points in the final two minutes, leading Iowa State to an 82-75 victory over third-ranked Mis­souri on Tuesday night. 
Iowa State rallied from an early 7-0 deficit in the Big Eight Conference game to beat Mis­souri for the fourth straight time in Ames and hand the Tigers their second loss in three games since Coach Norm Stewart was hospitalized. 
The game was played only hours after it was revealed that Stewart had colon cancer and a diseased gall bladder. Assis­tant coach Rich Daly has been guiding the Tigers in Stewart's absence. 
Missouri, 21-5, fell into second place in the conference at 7-2, half-game behind Okla­homa. Iowa State improved to 12-9 and 3-6. Stewart under­went successful surgery Tues­day for colon cancer and gall bladder disease and was hospi­talized in satisfactory condi­tion, doctors said. 

Officials said Stewart, 53, will be hospitalized for at least a week. The eighth-winningest active coach in college basket­ball, Stewart collapsed last Thursday with bleeding ulcers in the wake of Missouri's first NCAA violation scandal. 
The team, 21-4 heading into Tuesday night's game at Iowa State, continued under the di­rection of assistant coach Rich Daly. Whether Stewart will be able to return this season as co­ach remained unknown. 
"During the evaluation of the source of the gastro-intestinal bleeding, it was found that Norm Stewart was suffering from gall bladder disease and cancer of the colon," a Colum­bia Regional Hospital news release said. 
''Surgery was performed this morning to remove both the cancerous tumor and the dis­eased gall bladder. The sur­gery was successful and Coach Stewart tolerated the proce­dure well. 
"He is currently in satisfac­tory condition and treatment for his ulcer disease continues. He will remain hospitalized for at least one week." 
The day before Stewart col­lapsed, his senior assistant, Bob Sundvold, was suspended with pay pending an internal investigation into allegations concerning former Missouri player P.J. mayes. 
The NCAA at first said it would await an internal inves­tigation by the school before checking out the situation. But an NCAA investigator spent several hours interviewing Mayes' mother at her home in Cincinnati over the weekend. 
The NCAA probe and Stewart's illness are only the latest in a string of setbacks and controversies overshadow­ing what many believe is the best team in Stewart's 22 years as Missouri's coach. His wife, Virginia Stewart, has under­gone two major operations this month and was hospitalized last Thursday when Stewart first fell ill. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Patty Hagemeyer, whose recruiting efforts helped establish Notre Dame as a volleyball power, has been named head coach at Southern Illinois University. -The Observer 
Irish Insanity will meet in the Dooley Room of LaFortune tonight at 7:30. -The Observer 
The Cheerleading Team will have an informational meeting Monday, Feb. 20, for anyone interested in trying out for the 1989-90 Cheerleading Team (either as a cheer­leader or the leprechaun). The meeting will take place at 8 p.m. in the football auditorium of the Joyce ACC. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC women's lacrosse team will hold its first practice Monday, Feb. 20, at the Angela Athletic Facility. Please be there by 6:45p.m. and remember to bring $5 for club dues and sticks if you have them. -The Observer 1 
A squash film dealing with the fundamentals of the game will be shown tonight at 6: 30 at the football auditorium of the Joyce ACC. For more information, please call Bill Murray at x3211. -The Observer 
The NO Squash Club is seeking students to help organize the club for the upcoming year. Please call Bill Murray at x3211 for information. -The Observer 
The SMC-ND women's lacrosse club is looking for a volunteer coach. Anyone interested or wanting more information should call Kathryn Benz at 284-5482. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Tennis 
continued from page 16 
things to come for the Irish this season. 
"This is what it will take to win this year," said Bayliss. "Our doubles and top three carried us today. Last week, it was our bottom three. Every­one's contributing." 
Sophomore Paul Odland echoed Bayliss's thoughts. 
"This year, if someome has a bad day, someone else steps in and plays past their abili­ties," said Odland. 
Bayliss thinks the win il­lustrates a new attitude that will assist the Irish as they head into eight straight meets against Top 20 teams and schools that beat Notre Dame last year. 
He emphasized the confi­dence the Irish had against Il­linois going into the doubles matches with a 3-3 tie. 
"A good example of our in­tensity was Mike Wallace's play today," said Bayliss. "After losing a close, three-set singles match he came back at number-one doubles with a clutch win." Wallace's play exemplified the upbeat spirit and improved work ethic on the Notre Dame squad this year. 
"We're way above last year," commented Bayliss. "With all our tough matches coming up, we really have to win the ones that are within our reach, and today we did just that." 
---~-------~~~-------­
~----~----------~~----· 
page 14 The Observer 
Irish hockey hosts Foresters 
By FRANK PASTOR Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team lost its 25th game of the season last Saturday against Michigan, setting a school record. 
Strangely enough, Irish co­ach Ric Schafer is hoping for an encore performance tonight night when his team faces Lake Forest at 7:30 in the Joyce ACC. 
"If we play as well as we did last week, we'll be in pretty good shape against Lake For­est," said Schafer. "We had a tremendous outing against a very strong Michigan team." 
The Irish (9-25-2) have played Lake Forest four times already this season, posting a 1-3 mark against the Foresters. Mter dropping its first three games, Notre Dame defeated the Foresters 4-2 Jan. 21. David Bankoske and Matt Hanzel each scored two goals in leading the Irish to victory. 

Bankoske, a freshman cen­ter, needs two assists Wednes­day to break the freshman school record. He currently has 34 assists on the season, one shy of the record set by John Noble during the 1969-70 season. 
Bankoske is not the only freshman playing a prominent role for Notre Dame this season. Defensemen Rob Copeland, Kevin Patrick, Scott Vickman and Bill Hoelzel keyed the Irish effort last weekend against Michigan. Patrick and Hoelzel scored back-to-hack goals in Friday night's game and combined with the other freshmen to check the Wolverines' explo­sive scoring attack. 
"Our freshman defense has played extremely well," said Schafer. "We had four fresh­men in the lineup on defense, and they all played admirab­ly." 
The Irish were outshot 70-50 in dropping two games to lOth­ranked Michigan. They suc­cessfully converted two of six power-play opportunities. 
.. 

"We had generated all types of scoring opportunities last weekend," said Schafer. "We don't have any bona fide snipers on our team, but if we keep creating opportunities as we did last weekend, we'll get our fair share of goals." 
The game against Lake For­est and a Feb. 15 matchup with Western Michigan complete Notre Dame's 1988-89 schedule. Schafer looks for the Irish to close out their season with a pair of fine performances that would gain momentum for next season. 
"Obviously, we're not in anyplayoff situation," said the Irish head coach. "What we're looking for is continued solid play. It'd be a good way to end our season to play as well as we did last weekend. 
Prairie View players go on strike 
Associated Press 
PRAIRIE VIEW, Tex.--At 
Prairie View A&M, a small col­
lege that has never been 
revered as a football power­
house, two 300-pound offensive 
linemen are blocking for their 
teammates in an off-the-field 
struggle. 
The linemen, representing 
all but a handful of the 55 
players who will return to the 
Panthers' team next year, are 
leading a strike against the 
school's head football coach, 
saying academics ranks well 
behind athletics in Haney 
Catchings' program. 
Richard Haynes and two­year team captain Herman Moore, both with one year of eligibility remaining after being redshirted as freshmen, have taken their plea for Catch­ings' ouster to the media and to alumni groups. They insist they're serious about not prac­ticing or playing football until Catchings is dismissed. 
"My motto is, 'God doesn't 
like ugly,' " Moore said, "and 
what this man has done to this 
program is ugly." 
The players claim their co­ach has withheld textbooks, suspended study hall and con­ducted six-hour practices that leave no time for studying. They also say Catchings has run drills that have caused in­juries to players. 
"It's not true,'' Catchings, in his second year, said Monday. "That's all I have to say." 
Armed with press releases listing their complaints against Catchings, the two players spent the day scheduling meetings with administrators and telling anyone who would listen that they want a coach they can respect. 
"The chief complaint is academics,'' said Moore, a business marketing major with a 2.8 grade point average. "He doesn't care about his players' academics." 
Forty-two members of the team attend study hall, a study session that's mandatory for freshman team members and upperclassmen whose average is below 2.0. 
"There's never been that many people on study table before," said Moore, "especiall upperclassmen." 

Although the predommantly black, 5,600-student school has never had a strong football tradition, players said the team would be better under someone they liked." 
The Panthers went 5-5 in 1988 after a 3-7-1 mark in 1987, the year Catchings took over for fired coach Conway Hayman. 
Moore and Haynes have taken on responsibility for directing the team. They are urging teammates to run and lift we!s.hts to prepare for 
spring practice, which begins next month. But the players said they will not be practicing for Catchings. 
"The practices will be under the direction of the team cap­tains," said Haynes, a criminal justice major with a 3.2 
average. 

Practices under Catchings would often last six hours, players said, with team mem­bers not getting back to the dorm until 10:30 p.m. 
So--How are those 
N. D. CHICKS TREATIN' YA', 
TIM?
HEY--Things might change now that you're 19 ... 
NOT!! 
Happy Birthday, Stein 

You are cordia{{y invited to.... 
'Tfie Campus-Wide 
SY2( 

Wednesday, February 15, 1989 
101. 
The Observer I Scott McCann Bill Hoelzel (3) Is one of several Notre Dame defensemen who Impressed Irish hockey coach Ric Schafer In last weekend's series with Michigan. The Irish host Lake Forest t·onlght at the Joyce ACC. 
Is accepting applications for 
the following positions: 
Assistant Sports Editor (3) Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Please submit a one-page personal statement and a resume to Theresa Kelly at The Observer by Tuesday, Feb. 20. 
Questions? Call 239-5323 or 283-2718. 
HAPPY 21st 
Mike Sheedy 
Class of '90. From the Tallassee Gang Gram, Grandpa, Nana, Pops, Mom, Dad, Kelly Kiera,and Muffin. 
~eaturing tfie Cfiicago 13and q'fitf8 !t(@t'r!/J@ 
Prize 'Drawings fie{d tfirougfr.out tfie nigfit 
:Mianigfit 'Drawing: <Evening for two in Chicago induaing Cimousine, ainner, ana sfr.ow 

f}.{9rtfi '1Jining Commons ~e6ruary 24, 1989 9:00-2:00a.m. 
'Iic~ts $3 per person avaifaMe at La:fortune Infonnation 'Des!( ana from your aonn S:Y'l\.. commissioner 
Wednesday, February 15, 1989 
The Observer page 15 
NEW YOEiK TIMES CROSSWORD
CAMPUS 
12:10 p.m. Closed Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, HolyCross House. 
3:30 and 7:00 p.m. Diversity at Saint Mary's: three short films on the multicultural workplace: "Managing Differ­ences-Diversity at Work-Communicating Across Cultures," Saint Mary's Carroll Auditorium. 
6:30 p.m. Career and Placement Services Workshop on "Preparing for Office Visits-Plant Trips," Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
7:30 p.m. ND Hockey vs. Lake Forrest, Ice Arena. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
7:00p.m. St. Edward's Hall Forum presents Father Richard McCormick, S.J., and Professor Leslie Griffin speaking on "Here's Where We Stand on In-Vitro Fertilization and Other Human Reproductive Techniques," St. Edward's first-floor lounge. 
9:15-10:45 a.m. Humanities Colloquium: "Philosophy of Music Revisited," by Dr. Fabio Dasilva, Department of Sociology, Hayes-Healy Room 20. 
12:00 p.m. Institute for International Peace Studies Seminar: "The Relationship Between Soviet Economical Reform and Security Policy," by Professor Matthew Evangelista, Law School Room 105. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Grid Pastrami-Swiss  Turkey Cutlet  
Pasta Bar  Beef & Veg. Chow Mein  
Grilled Sole  Veg. Stuffed Pepper  
Chix Fried Steak-Gravy  Deli Bar  


COMICS 
Bloom County 

Buzz McFiattop 
ACROSS 33 Pseudonym of 57 Cato's tongue: sorts Abbr. 
1 Third of 52 58 Actor in "The
34 The "Iliad," e.g. 
Across 

Maltese Falcon" 6 Not in the dark 
35 Propensity 59 A neighbor of 11 Salt 
Switzerland36 Rental14 Throw for-­

63 Exclamation of (overwhelm) 
document 
discovery
38 History

15 Danger 64 Ford lemon 16 Important time 42 Pinball no-no 65 "The-and 17 Underage the Dead": 
43 Noodles, Mailer
18Riodela­
macaroni, etc. 

Argentina 66 Looking like a 44 Where 20 ghost
19 Asian holiday Across is 
67 Locales displayed
20 Important 
archeological 68 Third-day 
creation 
DOWN 

1 Get-together at 
sea 2 Former ring king 3 Washday Abbr. 4 Spain invader 
5 Relevant 6 Second chance in court 7 Strip of shoe leather 8Smell-(be SUSpiCIOUS) 9 Hayworth or Moreno 
1 G-Fiexible 11 Rockies range 12 "I'm a dreamer, 
--we all?" 13 Counts 21 Mr., in Pisa 22 Facial problem 23 Moby Dick's 
pursuer 
discovery 1799 23 J FK posting 26 A daughter of 
Ingrid 27 Hues 28 Egyptian figures 
on 20 Across 48 Chef's garb 50 Dory power 51 Soft drink 52 Other 
inscriptions on 
20 Across 

ktR.£ /lfR~ 'ritTf( MY. 
A IIMPFVL oF

1ft.E "it?ctWff" 10 tJf(!c.f/
fflLI.{)Y, F,ff{fOEN'I ~ 1/(t, 
OfiN~~ 1r

'lou !<f.FFR. 15 #tm.;;tiG
UitYE~JtTX .REv.' ~ot 
'/(X} tJ/LL. 7lf~

~ 1l(,o/J A ~EX/£5 CF­
/lo4J t.l:VLO You l<ff.Sr>OIIO 
I.fat..Ar£0 1/{C£o£/'11.5. 
ttq,./t?ALISM 5trVA1/aV

-TO 1H£ CLIV/15 OF 
15 1\br .-1 f'Rt11JL£11.
I

VMD,4,L.Ij"f oN$/1J5? 
\

I /.t'f' H~ 
~y 
7J/!S... 
" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
E C 

H 01 T A N G R A PIIIDI 
SOON ARIA EVADE 
SPOONS~~~ MANON 
A S 
T R 0~ S E L F I S H­"Y'Ef-511~ T T-0 T TAW A 
-
N HALER s• NAP 
EE.ACK ODDS 
IKABU\1
AN 
T A N C o• I S L E S 
H I E. A I R R I F L E 

RANOFF-STA ~~..,!,. 
• R I E D 0 N. T A L 0 N 
A'G'E STOVIP I PE P E T A L C I T E E V E R T R E N D S C A T R E S T 
? 

24 Raise one's dander 25 Bridle part 29 Sinking ship's evacuee 30 Nobelist in Literature: 1923 31 Bottom-of-a­letter letters 32 Hurry 36 Afire 37David­Lilienthal 38 Dance step 
39 Cruising 40 Shirt-front 
fastener 41 Not feral 42 Small bell 
sounds 43 Like a contented 
cat 44 Brest native 45 Fish delicacy 46 Monopoly 
structures 47 A West from the East 
48 Sh1n1ng 49 Czech capital, to 
Czechs 53 Cal1f city 54 Once, once 55 Arboretum 
member 56 Have the lead 60 Police-blotter 
letters 61 Bandleader Brown 62 L1near measures Abbr. 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Mike Muldoon 
WfLL, 1f(fl(£ You lillY£. ;[' 
1/VWk~~l'fV..t.oY. 


Comedy Zone
Applications for SUB 

Taylor Mason comes to ND Comedian, musician andExecutive Committee ventriliquist all rolled 
& 

up in one
Commissioners Feb. 16th, 9:00pm can be picked up 2nd floor Theodore's ---FREELaFortune, Due Feb. 22 

Movies 
Thurs. -Fox and the Hound Fri.-This is Spinal Tap Sat.-Moonstruck 



Sports 
Wednesday, February 15, 1989
a e 16 

Boston College upsets Irish 
Barros, Benton help Eagles end e1ght-game losing skid 
By PETE GEGEN the floor) and Keith Robinson fire, canning three three­Sports Writer 0-of-4) held to a combined 15 pointers and a layup to help points, the team field-goal build a nine-point Irish lead. 
A scoring exhibition by Dana percentage fell to .443 for the The lead quickly disappeared Barros and Steve Benton kept game. as Benton, who finished with a a flat Irish squad at bay Tues­
career-high 29 points, found the day night as Boston College up­hot hand. He hit five of the next set Notre Dame 83-72 at the six Boston College field goals Joyce ACC. to tie the game at 20. 
The Barros and Benton show "On the transition," said combined for 59 points and Benton, "I threw the ball out sparked the entire Boston Col­of control up off the glass, and lege squad to a near-perfect it fell in, and I thought, 'Oh my performance. The result was a God, it going to be one of those broken eight-game losing nights.' When you get hot, streak for the Eagles and a you're hot." frustrating fifth loss in front of The fire caught Barros in the 9,818 home fans for the Irish. final five minutes of the first 
"Give those kids the credit," "' half. He hit two straight treys said Notre Dame coach Digger A packed Boston College to break a 27-all tie, then added Phelps of BC's scoring duo. zone defense blanketed Notre two field goals just before the "They're a couple of fine Dame's inside game. Ellis and half to give the Eagles a 42-36 seniors and they just Robinson could reach only lead. dominated the game. We came three offensive rebounds, and The Irish came back in the out flat and couldn't get it the Eagles ended up with a 37-first eight minutes of the going." 29 ret>ounding edge on the second half. Ellis scored six of 
Joe Fredrick and Jamere night. his eight points in an 82-second Jackson handled the bulk of the "We were living with the stretch, Fredrick hit a jumper Irish scoring with 22 and 18 jump shot, and we just didn't and Jackson added his final points respectively. But with get people to the offensive three-point field goal to give one-fourth of Notre Dame's boards," said Phelps. "I don't Notre Dame a 53-52 advantage. field goal attempts coming mind missing the shot, but we Benton answered with a trey 
Boston College. Despite Fredrick's 22-polnt performance, the Eagles 
from three-point range, and have to get the boards." 
upset the Irish 83-72.
see EAGLES, page 11

LaPhonso Ellis (4-of-11 from Jackson opened the game on 
ND men's tennis trips Illinois 
By CHRIS COONEY cal Irish victory over the Big "Brian had to pick and Ten's Illini. -choose the times when he would
Sports Writer 

"Our team has found ways to attack," Bayliss said. "By 
Members of the Notre Dame win this year," said Bayliss. doing that, he came back from men's tennis team boosted "Its nice to win when you really a 4-1 deficit to win the tie­their confidence as well as their fight someone for it." breaker in the second set." record Tuesday, sweeping all One such struggle occurred Kalbas defeated Nassar 6-3, three doubles matches to in the number-three doubles 7-6, while at the number-three defeat Illinois 6-3 at the Eck match. Ryan Wenger and Dave spot Dolhare beat the lllini's Pavilion. Reiter dropped the first set and Brian Dillman 6-4, 6-2. 
Mter winning at the top three bounced back to win 1-6, 6-2, "Walter was down 4-3 and singles positions and losing in 6-4. had lost his serve," Bayliss ex­the bottom three brackets, the "At number-three doubles, plained. "He started floating doubles teams battled for the the guys lost the first set and the ball and playing defensive­big victories that improved the then methodically and intel­ly, and he realized his opponent Irish to 6-2. ligently dropped back on the couldn't finish the point. That 
In the deciding match, the first serve and adjusted their turned the match around." No. 2 combination of Brian game to win," said Bayliss. Bayliss also praised top Irish Kalbas and Walter Dolhare "That kind of play happened all player Dave DiLucia who won overcame the Illini's David day." 6-0, 6-0. The freshman star has Nassar and Neil Brown 7-6,6-2. Bayliss noted that at the lost only three games in his last 
number-two and number-three eight sets. Notre Dame coach Bob singles matches, both Brian Bayliss hopes that Tuesday's 
David Dllucia was a 6-0, 6-Q winner in singles Tuesday. The rest 
Bayliss noted the fine doubles Kalbas and Walter Dolhare victory was a sign of good
of the Notre Dame tennis team also was victorious as the Irish 
play and adjustments in game changed their games in order
defeated Illinois 6-3 at the Joyce ACC. see TENNIS, page 13
strategy as the keys to a criti-to attain important victories. 


A guide to spring training baseball games over break 
There is still snow on the ground and the mercury in local thermometers is still in hibernation. 
If you can look hard enough, however, you still can see two sure signs of spring creeping up. Nei­ther has anything to do with a groundhog or any other rodent, for that matter. 
Spring break is just three-and-a-half weeks away. Since this is a sports column and we all know dis­cussions of beaches and swimsuits do not belong in any sports article or publication, I'll leave visions of fun in the sun to your imaginations. 
But another rite of spring which is even faster approaching. 
On Friday, the pitchers and catchers of 14 major league baseball teams will report to spring training camps in Florida and Arizona. By next week, the battery combinations of the other major league baseball teams will start their workouts. 
Baseball's preseason workouts are among the only in professional sports which actually are looked forward to by fans and players alike. 
Perhaps it is because spring training, like spring break, takes the ballplayers away from the chilly north and allows them to act like kids again-­playing pepper, doing Richard Simmons' Stretcher­cise workouts and preparing for the 162-game schedule to follow. 
I was tempted to call it the 162-game grind, which doubles the number of outings of basketball and hockey, but calling baseball a grind just doesn't sound right. 
Brian O'Gara 
Irish Items 


Baseball is organized leisure in the best weather-­with a competitive twang. Add a few hot dog ven­dors and you've got yourself a national pastime. 
You thought a national championship in football was good. You were ecstatic to hear that we would be here on campus for St. Patrick s Day. But you know somebody is really looking out for us when the beginning of the spring training exhibition game schedule coincides with Notre Dame's spring break. 
You can find a spring training maps in Sports Wednesday on page 10, and here's a brief guide to some spring training action that you'll find along the spring break trail: 
Let's start along the Atlantic coast in south Florida where the defending World Series champs do their prep work in Vero Beach. Just south, at Port St. Lucie, the Mets ready themselves for an­other title run. The Dodgers and Mets meet each other on the first weekend of Spring Break, March 4 and 5, in Port St. Lucie and Vero Beach, respec­tively. 
If the Yankees are your team, there are a lot of doctors in Florida who could help you. George Steinbrenner and his new puppet Dallas Green make Fort Lauderdale their spring training home. The Yankees host Los Angeles on Tuesday, March 7, in a 7 p.m. game, and the Mets on Friday, March 10 at 1:30 p.m. 
Winter Haven probably willl be no haven for the Boston Red Sox, who still are troubled by the Margo Adams-Wade Boggs affair, the loss of Bruce Hurst and the contract disputes of Roger Clemens and Mike Greenwell. 
A few miles northeast is Baseball City, where the Kansas City Royals do their preseason training. If simply watching the Royals train is not enough for 
see SPRING, page 11 


