
Safety improvements slated for Juniper Road corridor 
By MATT GALLAGHER 
News Editor 
The University announced a $2.9 million safety improvement plan for Juniper Road at the St. Joseph's County Commissioners and Council meeting Wednesday. 
Citing a "very serious county safety problem" which has ex­isted since the completion of the Joyce ACC in 1969, Univer­sity Executive Vice President Father William Beauchamp presented the plan developed by Cole Engineering, an Indiana traffic engineering firm. 
The University's plan would improve the stretch of Juniper Road between Douglas Road on the north and Edison Road on the south, according to Bruce Hudson of Cole Engineering. 
Juniper would be widened from its present 22-foot aver­age width to an average 28­foot width. Protected left-turn lanes would also be added at intersections along the im-­proved section of Juniper. Curbs and improved drainage would also be added. 
To improve pedestrian safety, sidewalks would be established on both sides of the road. These sidewalks are to be sepa­rated from the main roadway by a 10 foot wide island of grass and trees. 
Hudson said overhead walk­ways or an underground tunnel for pedestrians were consid­ered, but rejected by the engi­neering firm. 
"You'd have to fence the whole roadway off. The pedes­trian is not going to climb up or go down when they can just walk across the road," Hudson said. 
Pedestrian traffic would be funnelled by landscaping, fences and earthen mounds into designated crosswalks. 
The University has requested that the county improve the in­tersection of Juniper and Dou­glas to facilitate the movement of traffic. The improvement of this intersection is estimated to cost $300,000. to bf' paid by the 
county. The University would pay the remainder of the esti­mated $2.9 million project. 
The University also proposed a new light be installed at the 
intersection of Juniper and Bulla Roads. 
Access from the various parking lots along Juniper would be restricted to a few en­trance points. A new access road will be built east of the D­2 parking lot to connect lots in that area with Bulla Road. 
Hudson said Cole Engineering conducted a study of traffic and pedestrian patterns in the Juniper Road corridor, at the request of the University. The study was completed in Decem­ber 1988. 
The study showed that ap­proximately 75 percent of the traffic on Juniper was related in some way to the University. Approximately 12,000 autos use Juniper each day. The traf­fic is expected to increase to 15,000-17,000 cars per day in ten years. Hudson said another study indicated that traffic may reach up to 25,000 cars per day in the same period. 
Hudson said 6,000 pedestri­ans cross Juniper Road each day. Pedestrian crossings are expected to increase to at least 13,000 per day in ten years. 
see JUNIPER I page 6 
1. 
Juniper Rd. to be widened from 22-foot to 28-foot average width. 

2. 
Curbs, landscaping, and improved drainage to be established. 

3. 
Sidewalks to be added to 


The Observer I Laura 
Pan Am subpoenas CIA documents about Flight 103 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -Pan American World Airways is demanding documents and in­terviews at the CIA and other 
U.S. agencies seeking support for its contention that Israel and West Germany warned that Flight 103 had been targeted by terrorists days before it was blown from the sky over Scot­land. 
The airline also seeks "all documents" linking Flight 103 to a reported Syrian arms mer­chant whose name came up in the Iran-Contra affair. 
Flight 103 was blown up last December with 259 people aboard. The airline is trying to defend itself against more than $300 million in lawsuits filed by families of victims of the explo­sion, in which 11 people on the ground were also killed. 
The airline is demanding to interview personnel at U.S. in­telligence and law enforcement agencies about "warnings from Mossad," an Israeli intelligence agency, "within the 24-36 hours before Dec. 21, 1988," that Flight 103 was to be hit by 
Nine Saint Mary's students attempt panty raid in Grace 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Assistant News Editor 
Nine Saint Mary's College students celebrated Hal­loween by conducting their own panty raid in Grace Hall Tuesday. 
According to Eileen Whelp­ley, a Saint Mary's student, she and eight friends went to Grace in costume. 
Unfortunately Grace Rec­tor Father Gerald Lardner did not find the raid amus­ing, said Whelpley. She claims that he wanted Notre Dame Security to arrest the women. 
Lardner .said that the women would not produce identification on request and were uncooperative. 
According to Whelpley, the women knocked on doors and announced to residents, "We are debriefing you." She said that the residents were laughing and complying with 
their requests for under­wear. 
The women tried to get un­derwear from a .resident as­sistant who would not par­ticipate in the panty raid. Whelpley said the women held a water gun up to the RA and hit him with a sock full of flour. 
The RA took one of the women's bag full of under­wear and called out for as­sistance from other RA's, she said. The RAs took two of the women to Lardner's room while the other seven went outside, according to Whelpley. 
Lardner telephoned Notre Dame Security after asking the women for identification, he said. 
The women came into Grace and started invading rooms and taking under· wear, said Lardner. When the RA's tried to stop the 
see RAID/ page 7 
terrorists, according to sub­Monzer Al-Kassar. merchant whose associates in­
poenas and notices of deposi­The congressional Iran-Con­cluded the Palestine Liberation 
tions filed in federal court. tra committees found that the Organization's Abu Abbas. Ab­
Pan Am also wants informa­organization of Richard Secord bas is accused of mastermind­
tion about any warnings from had paid $1.5 million to Al­ing the hijacking of the Italian 
the BKA (West Germany's FBI) Kassar to buy weapons in 1985 cruise ship Achille Lauro, in 
"within the 90 minutes before and 1986. White House aide which an American passenger
the scheduled departure from Oliver North had enlisted Sec­died.• 
Frankfurt" of Flight 103 con­ord as part of a secret opera­In its papers, filed in late 
cerning "suspicious activities" tion to run arms to tfie U.S.­September in New York and 
that "appeared to be taking backed Nicaraguan Contra Washington, the airline is seek­
place" in the baggage loading guerrillas. ing "all documents" concerning 
area. At the 1987 congressional "photographic and-or video 
The airline in addition is sub­hearings, Rep. Jack Brooks, D­surveillance ... bv the BKA ... at 
poenaing any documents Texas, said Al-Kassar had been 
"concerning the activities" of identified as a Syrian arms see PAN AMI page 7 
Saint Mary's student, 2 from ND injured in three-car accident 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Assistant News Editor Simeri travelled across three was later released. Her passen­lanes and hit Smith's vehicle in ger, Eric Lewis, suffered from Six people, including a Saint the left rear of the car. She lacerations and abrasions and Mary's College student and two continued through Smith's car was treated and released from 
Notre Dame students, were in­and hit Kuipers's vehicle head the Medical Center as well, said jured in a three vehicle accident on. Feirrell said at this point Feirrell. on October 21. 
Simeri had travelled across 
According to Sergeant nearly to the sidewalk. Kuipers was seriously injured Charley Feirrell of the St. with two broken arms and legs, Joseph's County Police, the ac­He said Simeri's car flipped broken ribs, facial and internal cident occurred at 2:20 a.m. on over and landed in the north injuries, Feirrell said. A St. 
U.S. 33 in front of the WNDU lane of the highway. studios. Joseph's Medical Center repre­The driver of the first car, Alcohol was a factor in this sentative said Wednesday that 
Patricia Simeri, 38, a South accident, Feirrell said. Kuipers had been discharged. Bend resident, was traveling north toward Roseland. Nicole Simeri suffered from head 
Jones and McDonald both 
Smith, 20, of LeMans Hall, was injuries and was taken to 
suffered minor neck, head and 
traveling south on Angela Blvd. Memorial Hospital. She has shoulder injuries. They were in the left lane. been in a coma since the acci­treated and later released from The third driver, Lance dent, said Feirrell. A hospital St. Joseph's Medical Center, Kuipers, 20, a resident of Hol­representative said Wedne~day said Feirrell. land, Michigan, was traveling that she is in critical condition. behind Smith in the right lane, said Feirrell. David Jones, 20, Charges will be filed against and David McDonald, 20, both Smith suffered from minor Kuipers and Simeri pending of Alumni Hall, were passen­head injuries and was taken to their releases from their re­gers in Kuipers's car. St. Joseph's Medical Center and spective hospitals Feirrell said. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Join the Scouts 
if you want real fun, adventure 
There was a time 
when boys jumped at ________ the chance to join the Boy Scouts. Nowadays, however, declining membership has made the 
' 
organization turn to '
e
television advertising \ to attract recruits. 
Regis Coccia 
The New York 
Managing Editor
Times reported this 
week that the Boy-------­Scouts of America is spending more than $1 million to shed its old-fashioned image. One commercial pitches Scouting as a way to "chill out" hiking on a glacier, or "get high" on a bridge over a ravine 
It's a shame that the Boy Scouts have to resort to paid advertising. I always thought Scouting was one of those pure and natural things, like Hershey's chocolate. Hershey's, by the way, did not advertise at all during its first 50 years in business. Boy Scouting's appeal, for me, at least, is that it builds character and encourages traditional values. 
The ad campaign is trying to shake the idea boys have that Scouting is boring. If the best advertising is word of mouth, no wonder the organization is looking for members. 
Researchers learned that boys ages 10 to 14 think Boy Scouts are nerds. Nerds!? If scouts are nerds, I'd hate to see what cool kids look like. 
Today's kids have come a long way from the demure days of my childhood, and we probably have television to thank for it. Boys and girls are bombarded with TV images suggesting that the social grass is greener on the other side of puberty. 
Increased exposure to TV has kept kids at 
home, but not necessarily for the better. In 
the convenience of their own homes, they've 
become lazy and dependent on mindless 
entertainment. Society has developed an 
obsession for immediate gratification, 
which TV serves well. If you don't like what 
you sec, change the channel. 
Scouting, however, teaches that the best fun is the kind you work for. Have today's kids ever -experienced the thrill of climbing a tree, canming through rapids or the simple pleasures of hiking in the woods and sleeping out under the' stars? 
The_ Boy Scouts teaches boys about campmg, of course, but it offers a lot more than that. Besides teaching respect for the Gr~at Outdoors, Scouting stresses self­reliance, responsibility, leadership and achievement. It's an outlet for boys with time on their hands. 
My years as a Boy Scout were well spent. I never regretted being unable to hang out with local scumbags and smoke or take d~ugs. Maybt; square knots and taught-line hitches aren t the most exciting things to make, but they made sleeping in a tent easier. 
Boys shouldn't be so reluctant to invest some time and energy in Scouting. The payoffs arc worth it. If they let themselves have fun as Boy Scouts, they'll be prepared for even greater challenges. 

The ObserYer~ 
PO. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471 Thursday's Staff: 
Production 
Tricia Grohman Naws Jeanne Blaisi Sports Sara Marely Molly Mahony 
Sarah Voigt Collen Malloy 
Accenl Colleen Cronin Terri Walsh Ad Design 
Vlllwpolnt Alison Cocks Kathleen O'Connor Christine Walsh Val Poletto Janice O'Leary Meg Callahan Katie Foster Systems AnrtaCovelli 
Molly Schwartz 
Any Eckert 
Dan Towers 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a mamber of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer 
WEATHER 

Pressure
®© 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
WORLD 

East German leader Egon Krenz called public protest at home a "good sign" Wednesday in Moscow and said his country, rigidly orthodox until now, would follow President Mikhail S. Gorbachev on the path of reform. Krenz said he and Gorbachev reached "total agreement on all questions we discussed," one of which 
was the Soviet Union and East Germany. Many of the hun­dreds of thousands marching for democracy in East Germany were showing support for "the renovation of 
The Navy has had a bad week. Starting with the Sunday jet crash that claimed five lives on the USS Lexington and continuing through Wednesday's fire a.board the oiler USS Monongahela, each day has 
A teen-ager playing with flash powder and a can of hair spray lost his right hand when the mixture exploded in a Halloween night accident in Elkhart, au­thorities said Wednesday. Six other youths suffered less serious injuries in the incident Tuesday evening at Studebaker Park. Police identified the most severely in-
Daniel Winicur. dean of admin­istration and registrar at Notre Dame, has been elected president of the Indiana Association of Collegiate Hegistrars and Admissions Officers (IACHAO). Winicur, an associate pro­fessor of chemistry at Notre Dame, joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1970. 


IACHAO which celebrates its 50th anniversary this year, includes representatives from 66 colleges and 
Thursday, November 2, 1989 
Yesterday's high: 56 Yesterday's low: 37 Nation's high: 88 
(Miami, FL) Nation's low: 3 (Butte, MT) 
Forecast: Cloudy and much cooler today with a 40 percent chance of snow showers mixed with rain. Highs from the upper 30s to about 40. Cloudy tonight with a 40 percent chance of snow showers. Lows in the upper 20s. Mostly cloudy Friday with a 40 percent chance of morn­ing snow showers. Highs in the middle 30s. 

socialism," he said. "In this sense, I consider this a very good sign," Krenz said. 
Jose Napoleon Duarte, former president of EI Salvador and a 1954 graduate of Notre Dame has been suffering from cancer for the past 16 month's and may have only a few days to live, an administration of­ficial said Wednesday. Duarte, who completed a five­year term in office in June, was admitted to Walter Reed Army Hospital last Saturday. The hospital had no comment on his condition. 
NATIONAL 

brou~ht an?thcr mishap at sea that has Navy brass shakmg their heads -and hoping it's just a streak of bad luck. One civilian specialist on industrial hazards warns that cutbacks in Navy training could lead to more accidents. 
INDIANA 

jured youth as· Chad Priddy, 16, of Goshen. Police said Priddy was attempting to light a combination of nash powder, a substance used to simulate explosions, and hair spray mist in his hand when the materials ex­ploded. 
CAMPUS 

Karen White. assistant prof1~ssor of psychology at Notre Dame, has received the first Hichard F. Srhanf­fer Award for Dissertation Excellence from Florida State University. White received a doctorate from Florida State in December 1988. The Schaeffer Award is an annual $3000 prfze given to the writer of an ex­cellent dissertation in the clinical program of Florida State's psychology department. 
universities in Indiana. 
OF INTEREST 

Logan Center needs Navy Tickets. The ND/SMC Council for the Retarded is taking the clients of Logan Center to the Notre Dame vs Navy football game. Tickets will be collected at ND and SMC dining halls on Thursday and Friday. Call Peggy 284-4357 or John 283-1881 with questions. 
Michigan Residents: The Detroit Area Stu­dent Club will be meeting in the Dooley Room of LaFortune at 7:00 pm. Officer elections will take place at this time. 
The BCAF Fashion Show try-outs practic will be held tonight at 8:00 p.m. in the party room of Lewis Hall for those interested in trying out and who need help with walking, striking poses or learning the routine. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for November 1, 1989 

Volume in shares 
154.24 Million 
tt0.60 S&P Composite A 341.20 iT 0.84 Dow Jones Industrials 2,645.90 +0.82 
Precious Metals Gold +$0.50 to $374.201 oz. 
Silver f-3.0¢ to $5.15 1oz. 
Source: AP 
ALMANAC 
On November 2: 
e In 1889: North Dakota and South Dakota became the 39th and 40th states. eln 1783: Gen. George Wash­ington issued his farewell ad­dress to the Army near Prince­
ton, N.J. e In 1947: Howard Hughes piloted his huge wooden flying 
boat, known as the Spruce Goose, on its only night, which lasted about a minute over Long Beach Harbor in Califor­nia. 

• In 1948: President Truman surprised the experts by being re-elected in a narrow upset over the Republican challenger, Thomas Dewey. 
Thursday, November2, 198_9__________________________________T~h~e~O~b~s~eN~e~r------------------------------------------------~p~a~g~e~3 

Pakistan army troops seal off the National Assembly in lnslamabad Wednesday as lawmakers begin to debate the first no-confidence motion against the government of Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto. 
Ortega ends truce with Contras 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua (AP) whether these elections take can't allow assassinations to be -President Daniel Ortega place or not on Feb. 25." committed." ended a 19-month truce with Alejandro Bendana, secre-His announcement was a Contra guerrillas on Wednes-tary-general at the Foreign blow to the Central American day. blaming the United States Ministry, emphasized later that peace process and the Aug. 7 for renewed rebel attacks and Nicaragua had no plans to can-agreements that called for dis-accusing President Bush of eel the elections. Commenting banding the Contras in ex­"promoting death, assassina-on possible renewed U.S. mili-change for moves toward de­tion, crime and terrorism in tary aid to the Contras. Ben-mocratization in Nicaragua. Nicaragua." dana added, "Obviously, if they "The Sandinistas are looking 
Ortega said the truce was be-let a bomb fall here we can't for excuses not to hold elec­ing canceled because of in-have elections." tions," Contra commander En-creased Contra attacks, includ-Ortega said U.S. aid to the rique Bermudez told The Asso­ing one last week he said killed Contras should be used only to ciated Press in Tegucigalpa, 18 people and another Monday demobilize and resettle the Honduras. that killed four. army that has been trying to The Contras were not a party 
The White House denounced overthrow his leftist Sandinista to the peace accords and Con­Ortega's decision to end the government. tra field commanders have said truce but brushed off talk Fitzwater said in Washington they will not abide by them. about renewing military aid for no request for renewed military Bermudez said the Contras the Contras. "We don't want to aid was contemplated. would continue to observe the give him any excuse" to cancel The administration said Bush cease-fire except to defend elections scheduled for next was consulting with leaders in themselves. He said he recog-February, said presidential Central America to bring diplo-nized that renewed U.S. mili­press secretary Marlin Fitzwa-matic pressure on Ortega tore-tary aid was unlikely, but called ter. verse course. it "the only option." 
Ortega read a communique in "This has little to do with the At U.N. headquarters in New 
which he said, "Nicaragua military situation and much to York. Secretary-General Javier 
reaffirms once again that, re-do with the electoral situa-Perez de Cuellar summoned 
gardless of the position as-tion," said Virgilio Godoy, vice Nicaraguan Ambassador Ale­
sumed by the mercenary forces, presidential candidate of the jandro Serrano Caldera to 
the electoral process culminat-National Opposition Union, a strongly protest Ortega's deci­
ing with the Feb. 25 elections 14-party coalition that is the sion. 
will be guaranteed." Sandinistas' main election rival. "We do not agree with 
But, he said, replying heatedly Ortega declared in a live na-Ortega's decision ... because it 
to a reporter's question on U.S. tionwide radio broadcast. "We jeopardizes the peace process 
aid to the Contras. "Now it will have the responsibility for de-that Nicaragua was following, 
depend on the Yankee Congress fending the lives of "said President Oscar Arias of 
and the Yankee president Nicaraguans. Therefore we Costa Rica. ~.................................................................................................................. 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 


~ #:kpakir ~ 
~ At Michigan National Corporation, our goal is to be a world-class banking institution that provides the ~ ~ finest ~uality service in our industry. ~ ~ To realize our goal, we ne~d p~opl~ who are willing to accept th_e ch~llenge o~ becoming the best in the ~ ~ busmess. We seek aggress1ve, mtell1gent, dnven people who bel1eve m our philosophy, and who are willing~ ~ to make the sacrifices necessary to attain our goals. In return, you'll work in an exciting, entrepreneurial ~ ~ environment that gives you the freedom to be your best. ~ 
~ If you are up to our challenge, we will be conducting campus interviews November 9th. Please contact ~ 
~ your Placement Office for further details. ~ 
~~ ~ 
~~~~ I
~National ~ 
Creativity called for in dealing with the aged 
BY DAN O'GRADY 
News Writer 
Students are able to influence parents and grandparents in decisions that concern nursing homes, medical care and prop­erty division, according to Suzanne Kelly, director of Pro­grams for Church Leaders in Notre Dame's Institute for Pas­toral and Social Ministry. 
In caring for the aging, it is important to "be creative" and to act under two premises, said Kelly. 
Kelly spoke at a Family Focus series lecture Wednesday. 
First, "Old people don't be­come crabby, crabby people grow old," she said. 
Secondly, emotional damage is lessened if situations are dealt with immediately, instead of delayed, Kelly said. 
Kelly said that the unpleas­antness of an aging parent should not prevent early action. 
"It is easier to live with a broken hip, than a broken spirit," said Kelly regarding those who are put into nursing homes because the family fears injury. 
Rather, the parent must come to the reality himself that he needs constant care in a nurs­ing home. 
Creativity must be used in ex­ploring a possible nursing home for a relative, Kelly said. Extensive questioning can re­veal the quality of the institu­tion. 
Another point made was the distribution o·f property of the aging or deceased parent, which Kelly called the "biggest breaker of the family." 
"Everyone must negotiate and be honest, don't hide what pos­sessions you really want," Kelly said. 

White House denounces Ortega's cancellation 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The said, "I can't concflive of the White House on Wednesday House moving now toward denounced Nicaraguan Pres­providing military assis­ident Daniel Ortega's deci­tance. That's not in the di· sion to end a truce with the rection of the peace pro­tJ.S.-backed Contras but cess." brushed off talk about re· Costa Rican President newing military. aid for the Oscar Arias, who won the rebels, f>aying "we don't Nobel Peace Prize in 1987 want togive him any excuse" for spearheading efforts for 
l to cancel next year's elec-a regional peace accord. said tions. · in an interview on the Cable President Bush, lashing out News Network, "It's, indeed, at Ortega. said ''the man is very ·sad to go back to the so out of step with the other military fight." democratic countries in this Ortega, at a news confer­hemisphere and so wildly in­ence in Managua, suspended sensitive to the feelings of the 19-month-old cease-fire others that we shouldn't with the Contras, citing con­have. been surprised" by his tinued rebels attacks, and action. hinted he might cancel the ''On the other hand, l don't elections. He accused Bush think he has ·unleashed a of "supporting terrorism in full•scale offensive at this Nicaragua." . moment.'' Bush said in a ra­He added, ''Now it will de­dio interview with ABC pend on the Yankee Congress News, "He's hedging his bets and the Yankee presidentnow.'t · that these elections take The administration said place on Feb. 25." Later, Ale­Bush was consulting with jandro Bendana, secretary leaders in Central America to general of the Foreign Min· bring diplomatic pressure on istry, said Nicaragua has no Ortega to reverse course. plans to cancel the elections. ~·It is obvious that he's afraid of thEJ ballot box," Meanwhile, administration White House press set:retary ang congressional sources Marlin Fitzwater said, refer­said that between 1,000 to ring to presidential elections 1,500 anti-Sandinista rebels set for Feb. 25 in Nicaragua. have returned to NicaragUa Congressional leaders also from base camps in Hon­reacted angrily to Ortega's duras over the past month, move, but House Speaker bringing the guerrillas troop Thomas S. Foley, D-Wash., strength to about 4,000. 
The Notre Dame Council on IIrru1tcelTifficiDful©rruciDll IffiWl§1irruCe?§§ 
JD)cewcen©IPllffilcerru1t will be having a general meeting on 
Thursday, October 2 
at 4:30 p.m. in Room 223 in Hayes-Healy. 
Catch the Global Wave! 
~Bank ~ 
~ Equal Opportunity Employer ~ 
~~.........................................................................................................,~ 


NEW MONEY-SAVING DEALS ./ 
' 
From Domino's Pizza® 
DOUBLE GUARANTEE CALL NOW! If your pizza isn't right, we'll Notre Dame make it right. If it's late, we'll 
give you $3.00 OFF! Call us 
for details. 1835 South Bend Ave. 



II-® ~etfiff­
271-0300 , 
-peMuWP" 
©1989 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 
r 
MONDAY'S BEAT THE CLOCK -_ . . 1 
The time on the clock .. 
is the price you pay! '\.. ·..~ l 
Call from 6pm -7pm order Two 10" One-topping pizzas and the time you call is the price you pay! Call from 7pm -Bpm order Two 12" One-topping pizzas and the time you call is the price you pay! Call from Bpm -9pm order Two 14" One-topping pizzas and the time you call is the price you pay! Call from 9pm -10pm order Two One-topping pan pizzas and the time you call is the price you pay! 
I 1 
Valod at participating Slores only. Not valid with any other offer. Pnces may vary. Customer pays sales lax where applicable Delivery area limited to ensure safe dnv1ng Our dnvers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized lor late deliveries ©1989 Oom1no's P1zza. Inc
L .J r THURSDAY'S THINK THICK! 1 
Get One Medium Pan Pizza loaded with cheese and pepperoni
I 
I
FOR ONLY $6.00 
L ., Valid al partiCipating stores only. Not valid with any Olheroffer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable Delivery area limited to ensure sale dnv1ng Our driwrs carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late delivenes © 1989 Oomono's P1zza. Inc. 
l' 

r 
SUNDAY'S DOUBLE FEATURE 
Get Two Small Cheese Pizzas! 
I FOR ONLY $5.49 
L 
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery area limited to ensure safe driv1ng. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. ©1989 Domino's Pizza. Inc. ' 
r 


ANYDAY! 
I 
Count on Domino's Pizza® to supply you with Two Large Cheese Pizzas anyday of the week! 
FOR ONLY $8.89 
Valid a1 pattlc:ipaling stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery area limited toensure sale driv1ng. L Our drivers carry tass than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for lata deliveries. e1999 Oomino's Pizza. Inc . 
. \ 
..................... , .......... ,., ....... , ...........~.... , ..................... ,. .. 
I' "'' 
... •'"· 
Thursday, November2, 1_9_89______________________________--~T~h~e_O~bs~e~N~e~r------------------------------------------------~p_a~g_e_S 
Ban on use of fetal tissue to continue 

AP Photo

Sorting through the rubble 
Mimi Doughe~y searches for personal items from the rubble of her Marina District building that was destroyed durmg the Oct. 17 earthquake. Dougherty was the manager of the building which her grandparents had owned. 
MONDAY,OCTOBER 31 
3:28 p.m. A resident of St. Ed­ward's Hall reported that his car had been vandalized while parked in Red Field on 1 0/29. 
3:50 p.m. A Breen-Phillips resident reported the theft of her wallet and contents from her locked vehicle while it was parked in White Field sometime between 2:00 p.m.on 10/28 and 3:00 p.m. on 10/29. Her loss is estimated at $45.00. 
5:30 p.m. A Wisconsin resi­dent reported the theft of a color television and misc. al­cohol from his RV while it was parked in Red Field sometime during the Pitt game. His loss is estimated to be $679.00. 
6:30 p.m. An off campus stu­dent reported the theft of his locked bike from a wire fence in Red Field sometime between 
SECURITY BEAT 

4:45 and 8:00 p.m. on 10/28. His loss is estimated to be $300.00. 
7:30 p.m. A resident of Farley Hall reported that her car had been vandalized while parked in the D-2 lot. The unknown van­dal(s) had tried to gain entry to the vehicle sometime between 
7:00 p.m. on 10/29 and 6:15 p.m.on 10/30. 
11 :58 p.m. A Holy Cross Hall resident reported the theft of his unsecured bike from the east side of Holy Cross Hall sometime between 1 0/29 and 1 0/30. His loss is estimated at $300.00. 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 31 
12:30 a.m. Notre Dame Police cited a South Bend man for Ex­ceeding the Posted Speed Limit. The defendant had been travel-ling 43 mph in a 25 mph zone on Juniper Road. 
9:41 a.m. A Mishawaka res­ident reported that his car had been vandalized during the USC game while parked near gate 
14 of the Stadium. Damage is estimated to be $120.00. 
10:40 a.m. A Niles resident was cited by Notre Dame Police for speeding on Juniper Road. The defendant had been trav­elling 51 mph in a posted 25 mph zone. 
2:45 p.m. Notre Dame Police responded to the report of a two car accident in the A-15 lot. No injuries were reported, and damage is estimated at $60.00. 
8:05 p.m. Notre Dame Secu­rity were called to the scene of a disturbance in Grace Hall. Eight girls from Saint Mary's conducted their own panty raid as part of a Halloween prank. 
!..............;;;;~:::;~·~;;~:;···............~ 
: Opportunities at
i 
First Boston 

: First Boston, a special bracket investment banking firm, 
+ 
headquartered in New York, will be recruiting for its financial : analyst program. Positions are available in the Investment 

+ 
Banking, Mergers and Acquisitions, Real Estate and Public


i 
Finance Departments. All Seniors are cordially invited to attend : a. presentation. 
: Presentation: : Thesday, November 7, 1989 
+ Alumni Room-Morris Inn 
i 
1-9 p.m.

. 
: On Campus Interviews: 
i 
February 5, 1990 

.
•+ For further information and inquiries, please feel free to contact: 
i : 
~~~ 

Investment Banking (312) 750-3071 
. ~~ i ~~ 
I• n::~: 
Chicago, Illinois 60606 
................................................: 
: 
J 
: 
+ 
: 
+
i 
: 
: : 
+ 
:: +
i 
:
•+
. 
:i 
: 
: 
~ 
+ 

WASHINGTON (AP) -A top federal health official said Wednesday he intends to extend indefinitely the current ban on federal money for fetal tissue research because if such tests were successful, "we'd have more abortions." 
James Mason, assistant sec­retary for health at the De­partment of Health and Human Services, told reporters he has the authority to continue the ban, imposed a year ago by his predecessor, but that he will consult first with HHS Secre­tary Louis Sullivan. 
Sullivan will concur with Ma­son's decision, according to HHS sources, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. An an­nouncement was expected to be made Thursday. 
Scientists argue that research using tissue from aborted fe­tuses holds great promise in treating Parkinson's disease and other conditions that are now incurable. But conservative supporters of the Bush admin­istration have promised a firestorm of protest if the ad­ministration lifts the ban. 
"The moratorium should be continued indefinitely," Mason, an opponent of abortion, said at a Health Reporters' Break­fast. 

''I'm concerned that the United States government, in sponsoring fetal tissue trans­plantation (research), that there will be the clear percep­tion on the part of many that their government is encourag­ing or promoting abortion," Mason said. 
Mason's predecessor as as­sistant secretary for health, Robert Windom, last year for­bade use of government funds to finance such research and established a special advisory committee on whether it should continue. 
Gary Bauer, president of the conservative Family Research Council, welcomed extension of the ban, saying such research raises "deep moral and philo­sophical questions." 
Indiana doctor indicted for performing illegal abortions 
ANDERSON, Indiana (AP) -A Frankton physician accused by three former patients of performing unwanted abortions was indicted Wednesday on eight charges, including four abortion-related counts. 
A Madison County grand jury indicted Dr. Pravin Thakkar on two counts of performing illegal abortions, one count of attempted illegal abortion, two counts of criminal recklessness, two counts of battery and one count of failing to submit forms to the Indiana State Board of Health. 
The indictment alleges that Thakkar failed to file forms with the health agency on an abortion that he allegedly performed in January 1988. 
According to the indictment, the charges involve three women. The abortions allegedly were performed Oct. 28, 1983, and Jan. 9, 1988; the attempted abortion was alleged performed in July 1987. 
Madison County Prosecutor William Lawler said if convicted on all counts, Thakkar could receive a maximum sentence of 42 years in prison. 
Thakkar was arrested at about noon VVednesday and appeared in Madison Circuit Court, where Judge Frederick Spencer entered innocent pleas on his behalf. 
Thakkar was then released on $100,000 bond. 
He declined comment at the courthouse. His attorney, Jeffrey Lockwood of Anderson, said the indictments brought forth no new allegations. 
"We don't see the indictment as particularly significant. It's just an indictment," Lockwood said. 
"He's been beleaguered with these kinds of allegations since last November. There isn't anything new in these alle­gations." 
A pretrial conference was set for Jan. 3. 
When the Great American Dream isn't Great Enough 
Have you considered? 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR 
A one-year program located at Moreau Seminary at Notre Dame for college graduates who are seriously interested in exploring a vocation as a Holy Cross priest or brother. 
For information: 
Fr. John Conley, CSC Vocation Director Box 541 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
ADWOR!(S

239·6385 
Thursday, November 2, 1989
page 6 The Observer 
'Batman' meets cool reception in Norway 

T-eEE LI?WN t I • 
CoNe C'v.te8 E( GvrrER 
~ 
IE-_:__..___.. 


OSLO, Norway (AP) -Holy box office! What's a caped crusader to do? After being the hit of the summer, he's the flop of the fall -in Norway, at least. 
Despite an extensive promotional campaign here, the mcgabuck smash movie "Batman," has been upstaged at the box office by "Licr.nce to Kill" and "Indiana Jones and thr. Last Crusade." 
In Norway, r.ven Donald Duck has been morr. popular than the Batman comic for decades. 
Inspired by its worldwide success -the movie has grossed morr. than $248 million at the U.S. box office alorw, and has set all-time opening weekend records in Italy, Spain. Mexico, Portugal and Britain ­the film's distributor hoped to trigger a little Batmania in Norway. 
Warner Bros. Norge AS, the movie's distributor, wallpapered mueh of Norway with Batman posters and stickers, in its biggest promotion campaign evPr in this small Scandinavian eountry. 
"Batwho?" responded Norwegians. 
Few had heard of Batman, even under his Norwegian comic book nanw, l.ynvingen, or Lightning Wing. Wlwn the comic first appeared lwn~ in 1953, l.ynving~~n was the nanw chosen because Batman. litPrally translated, means sornPthing like the Fluttering Mouse Man. 
Warner Bros. Norge kept till' original title, "Batman," for tlw moviP and sd out to makP it a household word with a promotion campaign that was unusually agressive by NorwPgian standards. 
~[MJW [MJ lUJ [LJL[g[Rio Happy 21st!! It was only a matter of time!  

GRADUATE STUDY 1n AEROSPACE ENGINEERING at GEORGIA TECH Major areas of study and research: * Aerodynamics * Aeroelasticity * Biofluid Mechanics * Combustion * Computational Fluid Dynamics * Computer-Aided Design * Flight Mechanics & Controls * Propulsion * Rotary Wing Technology * Structural Dynamics * Structures -Composites * Underwater Explosions Write or call: Dr. C.V. Smith, Graduate Coordinator School of Aerospace l::ngineering Department # 77 Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0150 ( 404) 894-6046  


Juniper 
continued from page 1 
One of the long-term options open to tlw Vniversity would be the closure of Juniper, Hudson said. However, there are no plans for closing the road at the present time. 
One of the goals of the plan was to create a "campus atmo­sphere" along the stretch of Juniper which runs on the Notre Dame campus. 
Brick crossings and signs are 
proposed "to identify to mo­
torists that they are at Notre 
Dame. We want to develop the 
roadway as a campus environ­
ment," Hudson. 
II udson noted that crossings will increase with the eomple­tion of the new band and HOTC facilities under construction on the cast side of Juniper. 
Beauchamp indicated that the 
majority of the land owned by 
the University that is suitable 
to be built upon is east of Ju­
niper. Thus, pedestrian cross­
ings will inerease rapidly in the 
long term. 
Hudson said the principal safety problem of the Juniper corridor is pedestrian cross­ings. The current layout of the road permits pedestrians to cross at almost any point they ehoose. Beauehamp cited fre­quent accidents involving pedestrians along Juniper. 
The improvement plan will "funnel pedestrians into clearly identifiable and clearly marked pedestrian crossing areas," Hudson said. 
II udson said the closing of most of the 15 access points from parking lots onto Juniper will improve traflie safety, with fewP.r cars turning on and off the road. The plan also calls for the elimination of all park­ing on the east side of Notre 

STUDENT SMOKERS Get a "Fresh Start" 
The American Cancer Society in cooperation with University Health Services will offer "Fresh Start" a four session smoking cessation program: 
DATES: November 7,9,14 &16 
TIME: 7:00pm-8:15pm LOCATION: Room 300 Health Services Bldg. ENROLLMENT: call University Health Services 
(239-7497) by Monday, November 6th 
It's time to "Leave the Pack Behind" 
Thursday, November 2, 1989 


SMC student gov't discusses smoking 
By COLLEEN TRAVERS News Writer 
A campus-wide smoking policy for Saint Mary's students was proposed by senior Missy Stapleton at Wednesday night's Board of Governance meeting. 
"For people who smoke, it can be very irritating," said Stapleton. 
The policy would probably be tailored to each of the resi­dence halls instead of to public areas. Stapleton used the ex­ample of McCandless Hall, in which students are not permit­ted to smoke in the hallways or lounge. 
The recycling of aluminum cans with containers in each hall section. The program would begin in January and last until March. 
Also discussed was a possible joint calendar for all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's activi­ties, which would help to pro­mote better relations between the two schools. 
The Observer page 7 
AP Photo
Bridges takes the stand 

Actor Todd B~idges wipe~ tears from. his eyes as he testifies in his attempted murder trial in Los Angeles Tu.esday. He IS charged 1n the shooting of a reputed drug-ring member at a Los Angeles "crack" house. Bndges starred in the television series, "Different Strokes." 


dialogue 

('.__A_T_N_O_T_R_E_D_A_M_E 
Notre Dame's new student magazine will have a meeting for all interested students. 
7:30 Tonight Sorin Room, LaFortune Student Center 
Dialogue at Notre Dame is a publication of The William E. Miller Society. 

· JACC COURT RESERVATIONS IMPORTANT 
THE FOLLOWING PROCEDURES WILL BE USED IN ACCEPTING BASKETBALL & VOLLEYBALLCOURT RESERVATIONS FOR THE JACC: 
1. 
Requests must be submitted on the "Court Reservation Form" available at NVA. 

2. 
Requests will be accepted starting at 9:00am November 1. 

3. 
Requests will not be accepted after 5:00pm November 15. 

4. 
Failure to use allotted time on two occasions will lead to cancellation of remaining schedule. 

5. 
All reservations must start and end on the hour assigned. 

6. 
After November 20, weekly reservations may be allowed if time is available. 

7. 
Reservation requests must be submitted to the Non-Varsity Athletics office. 


NON-VARSITY ATHLETICS 
Pan Am 
continued from page 1 

Pan Am's baggage loading area at Frankfurt" on Dec. 21. 
Pan Am subpoenaed the CIA, the FBI, the National Security Council, the National Security Agency, the State Department and the Drug Enforcement Administration, with interviews due to begin in mid-November. 
Justice Department spokesman David Runkel said no decision had been made on whether the government would attempt to quash the subpoenas 
against  the  six  federal  
agencies.  
Runkel  said  the  agencies,  

"working in conjunction with the Department of Justice, are currently collecting and review­ing the requested data." 
The Pan Am subpoenas are "a lot of nonsense" and a "diversionary tactic," said Lee Kreindler, an attorney repre­senting the families of the vic­tims aboard Flight 103. 
Raid 
continued from page 1 

women they were uncoopera­tive, he said. 
"No one knew who they were," said Lardner. "They had no identification." He said the women were very rude and un­cooperative with Grace staff members. 
"If they had been from the Northeast neighborhood they would have been arrested," he said. "They committed several crimes. They stole clothing, they assaulted an RA and they broke into rooms and took people's possessions." 
Chuck Hurley, assistant di­rector of Security, said that at 
8:05 p.m. Tuesday Securit~ re­spond.ed to a call from Grace Hall. Two women who were causing a disturbance were re­moved from the dorm and re­leased to Saint Mary's Security, he said. 
Whelpley said that the women have the underwear and are planning to returiJ the men's belongings. 

··················································································~• 
•
•
•
•
• 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 

•
• 
i• KIDDER, PEABODY & CO. !• i Incorporated !
•
.• •~ 
• 
••

. : 
!• cordially invites !• 
• 
• 

i NOTRE DAME SENIORS i 
.. • • • 
• 
• 

!• to attend a presentation on the two-year !• 
•

• 

!• INVESTMENT BANKING !• 
!• FINANCIAL ANALYST PROGRAM !• 
i Monday,November6,1989 i e 7.-oo -9.-oo P.M. e !• Morris Inn, Notre Dame Room !• 
•
•
•
•
•

• i Reception to follow presentation. i
• 

• 
• 

• 
~. ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••! 
/ 



WASHINGTON (AP) -The House voted overwhelmingly Wednesday to raise the hourly minimum wage from $3.35 to $4.25 by April 1991 and create a new, lower wage for teen­agers with less than six months work experience. 
pre-'84 '84 '85 '86 '87 '88 '89 congressional Democrats sends the measure to the Senate, 
Source: Salomon Brothers API R. Dominguez 
where leaders have promised to pass it before Thanksgiving. Bush's signature then would 
trigger the first increase in the
S&L regulators on the defense 
WASHINGTON (AP) Federal regulator M. Danny Wall defended himself Wednesday against complaints he botched the handling of the nation's largest savings and loan failure and said "fair play clearly has not been evident" from his congressional critics. 
''I'm not saying we're lily white," said Wall, in an interview in his office a block from the White House. 
But he said that he acted responsibly in regulating Lincoln Savings and Loan Association in Irvine, Calif., despite a nearly two-year delay in seizing the institution after field examiners recommended action. 
Also, Wall complained that the House Banking Committee has conducted three hearings on Lincoln without giving him or his senior aides a public forum to respond. 
"Fair play clearly has not been evident, much less due process," he said, adding that it is "more than a coincidence'' that the committee postponed testimony favorable to him. 
"The public sees silence as being an admission of guilt .... I clearly .. . will be eager to respond to every question that is asked," Wall said. 
The committee is investigating the failure of Lincoln, expected to cost taxpayers between $1.5 billion and $2 billion, and Phoenix, Ariz., millionaire Charles Keating Jr., chairman of Lincoln's parent company, American Continental Corp. 1981 and end an eight-year 
It is focusing on why Wall, as political stalemate between the chairman of the Federal Home majority Democrats in Loan Bank Board, now called Congress and two successive the Office of Thrift Supervision, Republican administrations. rejected a 1987 That stalemate has kept the recommendation from his minimum wage at $3.35 an agency's San Francisco office hour since January 1981. The to take over Lincoln and compromise provides a 45-cent instead ordered a second increase to $3.80 next April 1 examination, supervised by and another 45-cent jump a regulators from Washington, year later. which delayed the seizure of the It also creates for the first institution until this April. time a subminimum "training 
wage" that would allow 
Michael Patriarca, director of employers to pay workers from the thrift agency's San 16-19 years old 85 percent of Francisco office, and William the prevailing minimum wage Black, counsel in the office, told for their three months in the the committee they had work force. The subminimum uncovered sufficient losses and could be paid for an additional irregularities at Lincoln to three months provided the justify its seizure two years youths were in certified ago. training programs. 
Beneficiaries of the compromise will be the roughly 4 million Americans who, according to government figures, work at the minimum wage. Congres.sional researchers say two-thirds of them are women and between 25 percent and 33 percent of them are heads of households. Eleven states have laws mandating minimum wages higher than the current federal floor; a few of them already are at the $4.25 level. 
The agreement on the subminimum, an anathema to organized labor that was demanded by Bush, cleared the way for the compromise and was the focus of most of the House debate. 
That debate was short and subdued, with lawmakers from both parties finding fault with the compromise; most Democrats said the increase was too small, while conservative Republicans said there should no boost and for that matter no minimum wage. 
But gone was the acrimony and political posturing that characterized the fight just months ago over a bill Bush ultimately vetoed and the bitter debates on the subject during each of the eight years of the Reagan administration. 






Viewpoint 
Thursday, November 2, 1989
page 10 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelly 

Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Cocc1a Rich lannelh 
•
Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager .Alison Cocks Accent Editor John Blasi Systems Mgr Bernard Brennmkmeyer Photo Editor . Enc Ba1ley OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chns\lne Gill Controller Anne Lindner 
The Observer 15 the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Umversl· ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saini Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­ICies of the adm1mstrat1on of e1ther mst1tut10n The news is reported as accurately and ob­Jectively as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1nion of the maJority of the follow1ng: Ed1tor-in-Ch1ef. Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, V1ewpo1nt Ed1tor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Sa1nt Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is ava1lable to all members of the community and the tree expression of vary1ng opimons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged. 

THE HUNDRED TllOrJSAND Dou.AR fMR THe TW~NTY-THOIISNID DOUAf\ SNOWBALL 
~ 
EDITORIAL 
Suspend the culprits, not matching funds 
Notre Dame has many tradltions it is proud of, but the annual campus snowball fight is not one of them. 
On Oct. 19. a group of students decided to hurl snow­balls at each other and several residence halls. The frolic ended with six broken stained glass chapel windows and several shattered dorm windows. 
Vice President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson responded to the vandalism by indefinitely suspending $20,000 in residence hall matching funds. He said that allocating funds for hall life improvement was pointless 
when those funds must pay for repairs.  
The incident is  regrettable,  and Tyson has  a  valid  
point, but suspending matching funds in this  case  is  
unfair.  

Many dorms had made hall improvement purchases with the belief that the University would provide two­thirds of the funds. Those halls must now wait until the University decides to grant the promised funds. 
Not all students. and certainly not all dorms, partici­pated in the snowball fight. Siegfried Hall, for example, was deprived of $1,100 in matching funds for a piano for its chapel. It seems unlikely that women in Siegfried would toss snowballs through Dillon Hall's windows. Most students are mature enough to leave windows un­broken. So why punish all students? 
Nobody expected snow in October, but everyone knows the snowball fight occurs the night of the first snow. The Office of Student Affairs should have publicized warn­ings weeks before, not call a meeting with Student Government hours before the fight. With time, student leaders could have planned a strategy to prevent damage to University property. 
Vandalism is senseless, no matter what the weather. The first snowfall is no excuse to break windows. Anybody who aims at a window with a snowball is asking to be punished -and should be. 
That's why the University should not hold the student body responsible for damage; it should go after the students who threw the snowballs. 
The Office of Student Affairs can deter residence hall damage by publicizing the punishment vandals can expect if they are caught. 
Let students who deliberately break windows foot the bill. Expel them from the dorms. If necessary, dismiss them from the University. But don't make the entire student body suffer. 
DOONESBURY 
LETTERS 

ROTC rightfully aids America's defense 
Dear Editor:  Notre  Dame,  does  Mr.  Mills  because America prepares for  
Kurt Mills' article (The Ob­ think that Notre Dame couldn't  war  doesn't  mean  Americans  
server, Oct. 31) on the subject  find  other qualified  students  want  it;  the  military  is  a  
of militarism  versus  religion  willing to pay their own  way?  "necessary  evil"  in  a  world  
was  completely off base.  Mr.  When we turn away about two­ where innocent nations arc at­ 
Mills doesn't take into consid­ thirds of the applicants,  it is  tacked by aggressors. If all else  
eration many important facts  clear that Notre Dame doesn't  fails (and it often does) we need  
when he pleads his case.  "need" these students for their  a  way  to  defend  ourselves.  I  
He states that ten percent of  tuition. By the same token, does  don't  think  anyone  from  the  
the  undergraduates  at  Notre  Mr. Mills consider that maybe  Pope  on  down would say that  
Dame are in HOTC. This figure  so  few students  arc  in  peace  self defense is immoral. Striving  
sounds accurate. What he fails  studies because few  arc inter­ for  peace  is  important,  but  
to consider is that the Univer­ ested in it? That is not the Uni­ achieving it is sometimes im­ 
sity  has  no  control  over  the  versity's fault.  Money is allo­ possible.  
number of students in  HOTC.  cated based on  the number of  
The scholarships are not given  students in  an  area  of study.  As long  as  HOH: is  not im­ 
by  Notre  Dame;  the  Army,  Also, newer, less academically  moral in itself (and, as part of  
Navy, and Air Force give stu­ recognized disciplines get less  America's self defense, it isn'tl.  
dents  scholarships  to  attend  consideration than established  the University should allow it to  
any accredited university.  fields of study (which is only  exist on campus; it pays the tu­ 
Even  if Notre  Dame barred  natural), and any new program  ition for a large number of stu­ 
HOTC  from  campus,  Notre  will expand slowly.  ·  dents, some of whom might not  
Dame students could join HOTC  Mr.  Mills  also  tells  us  that  be here without it. While (as I  
at another  school. As it is now,  HOTC advocates violence and  said  earlier)  Notre  Dame  
some  students  from  schools  that goals of HOTC and Chris­ wouldn't close its doors without  
like I.U.S.B. are in ROTC here;  tianity an~  incompatible. This is  these students, they deserve a  
if it were cancelled here, I b,et it  certainly not true. The military  chance here, and  non: gives  
would  be  moved  to  another  is necessary to defend the coun­ them this chance.  
school.  Notre  Dame  students  try.  Only  a  fool  would  think  
choose HOTC, and the school doesn't control that. As for ROTC "buying off"  that America would go unmo­lested for any considerable length of time without it. Just  Dave Redmann Morrissey 1/all Oct. 31, 1989  

'What's Up?' calendar distribution changes 
Dear Editor: which are listed in several other dorm representative network 
As you may have noticed, a university calendars. The cal­and will be placed in eaeh new student calendar of events endar should offer students a room's mailbox. We would like began this year. The monthly quick and easy way to see to encourage you the read publication, entitled "What's what's going on socially within "What's Up?" and also to save Up?", is a joint project between the month without having to it so that you can look up the Office of the Ombudsman search through several lengthy events all month long. and the Student Union Board. schedules or publications. If you have any comments or Its purpose is to both highlight The "What's Up?" calendar, suggestions or would like to upcoming events and to provide until now, has been distributed have an event listed in the cal­a comprehensive listing of in the dining halls on the first endar, please contact us. campus programs. weekend of each month. This Victor DeFrancis 
The unique feature of system, however, did not en­Executive Director "What's Up?" is that it high­courage saving the calendar for Office of the Ombudsman lights social events which ap­reference throughout the Raja Singh peal to the majority of students, month. Therefore, beginning in Board Manager and places less emphasis on November, the calendar will be Student Union Board academic and faculty offerings, distributed through the SUB Nov. 1, 1989 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

1M AFRAJ[) 50,
HUUJ? ACJl.VlLI,* I WA5 


IN THe PAYS AHeA{), YOU MAY
GLADW

MAYI IAJONIJt3RJNG IF I 
ANPY. TH/5 HAS 


~ARJ70FfZl.~{) OF!. 

IT/AION'T
M!ZTY~ 
8I3&N A TeRR!£31,&

Hf3/.P COUWHW~ 
ANXIOUS OR eV/3N 6Utt.-7Y OV/3R 
aJNFLICT
AN6ei.A.

y()U'2 ANPY. IM ANG&lA 
txP&RleNtE FOR 

HAVING SURV!VeP. THI'J'SIAJHY 
/AifTHMY
Y()(JMU5T

JAN/'3, FROM TH/3. 
A LOTOF PbOPte. 

I'M HtR& -70 OFF&/<. ANY 
Alf?5 C()(JN­
8!3A 8l.5t

TRAJJMA' 
COIJNS13UN6 
'3{3t./N6,
LAPY

aNTeR. YOU!WlY \. 
/AI!U/JZ
7H~ """ 

Nf3W.
PAYS. 
\
\ 
NO,NO,W/3 


'Human beings must always be 
CANUJORJ< 

treated as ends-not means to ends.' 
AROUN{)!T. 
\ 
Immanuel Kant 
(1724-1804) 


Accent
Thursday, November 2, 1989 
page 11 

S.P. UDAYAKUMAR 
accent writer 
If you ever happen to pass by 
LEARNING TO LIVE 
the rear of Columba Hall near St. Joseph's Lake, you might hear the babel of blaring music and speech of different lands. If, out of curiosity, you enter the obscure corner of the building 

PEACE
labeled Peace House, you will discover the unique kind of excitement the residents there enjoy. You may find a 'US Mineapple' dancing the fine hip movements of a Moroccan dance to lively Palestinian mu­sic. A Chilean, a Japanese, and an Israeli may come waltzing in, clapping hands to join her. As the excitement draws every one of the fine bunch of four­teen out of their rooms, it is no longer Peace House if peace means silence to you. An 

Ethiopian dance may be staged 
erature, law, journalism, math­
by a Tamil from India, followed 
ematics and sociology. 
by4ock n' roll which appears to 
These are the participants in 
transcend all cultures. 
the International Scholars 
The intimacy they exhibit and 
Program of the Institute for 
the affinity they demonstrate 
International Peace Studies 
for one another may be quite 
who are doing one year of in-
confusing and make you won­
' tensive graduate work in Peace 
der if they are all really from 
Studies. Reaching the United 
different countries. The fact is, 
States from different corners of
yes, they are! They are from 
the world, many of them have 
different geographical locations 
had to face more than one 
-the Far East, South Asian 
difficulty in getting adjusted to 
peninsula, Middle East, Europe, 
a new country, new culture and 
Latin America, and United 
new environment as well as un­
States -representing entirely 
derstanding and living with 
different cultures, speaking 
quite strange cohabitants. One 
altogether incomprehensible 
complained of the bland foods, 
languages, and owing 
another of the weather, and a 
allegiance to diverse religious 
third of the lavish lifestyle of 
faiths including Judaism, vari­
Americans. The grumblings 
ous denominations of 
have subsided as they have got­
Christianity, Islam, Hinduism, 
ten into the mainstream of 
and even agnosticism. Just as 
American life, but there are 
the outside packaging differs 
cultural difficulties which won't 
widely, so do their intellectual 
disappear so easily.
backgrounds; there are stu­
I am also one of the fortunate 
dents of politics, economics~ lit-participants in this prestigious program. I arrived at Notre Dame in the first week of August along with many other friends. Scarcely had I over­come the homesickness, culture shock, and the teething troubles of my new life when another difficulty cropped up and began to bother me. 
I found a particular friend among us behaved indifferently toward me. At first, I thought it was the making of my own mind; but gradually, I under­stood that the problem was very much there. I started won­dering in my mind what had ever happened. I was scratch­ing my head trying to find the reason. We never had an argu­ment, no financial or other dealings, we hadn't even talked very much, so why, why this an­tipathy? I approached the friend and wanted to talk, but found him quite closed. My of­fer of help was politely turned down and the matter rested there without any marked im­provement in the relations. 
Appealing to the better na­ture of a man seldom fails. It was quite true in my friend's case also. He approached me a few days later and explained the problem. Said he, "Listen, I don't like being touched and patted on my back and shoul­ders so often. That's all the dif­ficulty I have with you. Please, do refrain from that and I don't have anything against you." As I come from a culture where physical touch shows warmth and affection, I was really fascinated to realize the role of culture in that inter-personal conflict. 
Besides the cultural heritage, scores of other factors such as life experiences, personal val­ues and outlook, and differing social, economic, and political backgrounds can cause friction and conflicts. The life in Peace House of fourteen people from twelve countries with different inside and outside packaging is a living proof, at least for us, that peace can be very well lived despite all the conflicts and differences a group might have. No one here is pressured to suffer anything patiently or to be diplomatic in personal interactions. All that matters is real education, spiritual under­standing, and the constant and conscious use of love, the law of our being. 
It wouldn't have been all that easy to start life so smoothly in an alien land with strange peo­ple if. it weren't for the excellent work of Anne Elizabeth Hayner, the lively and dedicated admin­istrator of the International Scholars Program. She kept us all well-informed through her exhaustively long letters, met us at O'Hare Airport, and in­troduced us to community life and American culture gradually and carefully. Running the pro­gram, which is the brain-child of Father Theodore Hesburgh, for the third consecutive year, she feels, "It's a worthwhile program with rich potential for inter-cultural communication. It has positively affected the students and brought about great changes not only in their personal lives but also in their peace work. The program has influenced not just the students but everyone who came into contact with it." 
The pains and efforts which the Peace Studies faculty of Notre Dame put into this pro­gram will certainly not go un­rewarded. It is they who help the students in Peace House live to learn and learn to live. 
Dr. Prieto serves Mexican-Americans 
'Jorge Prieto is one of those unusual people who have made a difference. Throughout his life, there emerges a strong faith, a total dedication to the poor unfortunate, and a hope that somehow, with God's grace, he could make his dreams come true.' 

Diane Schiable 
Accent Writer 

His dream developed in 1943 when he visited a migrant labor camp in Niles, Michigan, while studying at the University of Notre Dame. When Jorge Prieto observed the poverty in which these Mexican workers lived, he dedicated his life to aiding this needy and deserving group. The remarkable story of Dr. Prieto's life is recorded in his autobiography, Harvest of Hope, which was recently published by the University of Notre Dame Press. 
Following his graduation from Universidad Nacional de Mexico, Dr. Prieto completed a nine month service project in the Mexican desert with only his medical books and his bride to aid him. 
"There can be few times in life more exhilarating than the day when a young man or woman sets out alone to meet the challenge of practicing medicine. There is probably also never a time of greater in­security." {Harvest of Hope) 
Despite his apprehension Dr. Prieto succeeded, using innovative techniques at times. For example, the game of baseball caught on quickly in the small Mexican village of San Martin located in the Zacatecas Desert. 
Of course, the villagers didn't know that the town doctor's reason for teaching them this game was to give them something to do other than getting drunk on mescal, an alcohol made from cacti. 
Dr. Jorge Prieto was content with the fact that he could make their lives better in some respect. He despaired that he could not do .much for their health without proper nutrition, but the required foods were not available or affordable in this poor rural town. 
At least he had made some impact on the villagers' lives during this period of social service. He had saved quite a few lives, taught them about health and hygiene, given them faith in the science of medicine, and introduced a new pastime. 
The next step in his new medical career was to Chicago where he looked forward to fulfilling his dream of serving theMexican migrant workers in the United States. 
Dr. Prieto was very successful in his mission and has served Chicago's inner city Hispanic communities for nearly forty years. He established clinics in poverty-stricken areas and made house calls in a day and age when this practice has become obsolete, illustrating his immense love and respect for his patients. 
"Perhaps today's physicians need to reflect seriously on how best to develop trust in their relationships with patients ...We have become so enchanted by our modern technology, and its precision, that we forget how impersonal and threatening it can be for our patients. What we gain in precision can be lost in the understanding and co­operation that contributes so much to the mysterious process of 'getting well'." (Harvest of Hope) 
So Dr. Prieto's career progressed from the desert of Mexico to urban Chicago where he became chairman of the Department of Family Practice at Cook County Hospital. He was also appointed president of the Chicago Board of Health by the late Mayor Harold Washington. 
He overcame hardship and discrimination in his dedication to serve the Hispanic community. Throughout his career, optimism was kept alive by his loving wife, his faith in God, and his desire to serve mankind. 
Dr. Prieto's message is intended for all those interested in vocations, medical education, cross-cultural studies, and the roles that faith and enthusiasm play in our present society. It will also prove helpful for all students {but especially Mexican-Americans) fearful of entering the medical profession. 
Father Hesburgh commented on the book, "Jorge Prieto is one of those unusual people who have 'made a difference.' Throughout his life, there emerges a strong faith, a total dedication to the poor unfortunate, and a hope that somehow, with God's grace, he could make his dreams come true. I recommend this book highly." 
Harvest of Hope will be available in the Notre Dame Bookstore. 
Thursday, November 2, 1989
page 12 The Observer 
N The Observ~r accepts classifieds every business day frpm 1oa.m. to 3:30 p m 1th otre Dame off1ce, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint M ·. ·a. e Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifie~Z ~~::~~e. 
prepaid. The charge 1s 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. e
Classifieds 

NOTICES j 
----------·---------------------·---­
WORDPROCESSING 
272-8827 
WORDPROCESSING 
272-8827 
ADOPTION Happily married white couple wishes to share love and security wrth newborn. Expenses paid. Legal. Please call Margaret and Jerry collect 718-858-6250 evenings and weekends. 
STUDENT ART FORUM TONIGHT 7PM-SNITE MUSEUM 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 
287-4082. 
Typing. Overnight service. 
2n-6091 
TYPING term 
papers/reports/letters/resumes 
Pick up & delivery available. 277­
5134 1 Oam-Spm 
RIOCKET SHIRTS /SWEATS? 
277-5647 EVENINGS 
LOST/FOUND 
FOUND: Lady's Lassale watch. 
Pre-USC game. Red Field. 
Mary x2569 
TIIU fWft NIIIWJT10N l IIHOIVmoNI 
1·800·321·5911 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL FORUM 
Dr. Roland Smith .Exec. Assistant to Father Malloy Mr. Kenneth Durgans Dlr. ol Mlnortty Student Affairs Respond to: 
• Does Racism Exist at Notre Dame?" 
Thursday, Nov. 2 
7:00p.m. 
All are invited 
Helplllost my father's blue coat at the sophmore formal at SMC in Haggar and I need it back. It is a 44R and has tissue in the left pocket If you m1stakenly took it. please call Chris at 288-4420. 
Lost: Last Sunday 1 0/15 .1 :00 . 
S. Stepan Football Field . During a lnterHall football game Scapula with First Communion Medalion attached. If anyone knows it's whereabouts. Please call John Carlin at 1I 78. Serious sentamental value, "Cabbage" will be paid !1111111111 
Lost: Class Ring outside Flenner around 1 0/18 Reward call Brat x1389 
LOST Ladies CORVAIR BIKE. White with blue trim, BIG basket on the front... Great sentimental value. Any info-no questions asked!­call Bridget at 283-2457. 
I LOST MY CAMERA ON GREEN FIELD DURING THE PITI GAME. I WOULD REALLY LIKE IT BACK AS IT HAS GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE CALL MONICA AT 27641F YOU KNOW 
ANYTHING ABOUT IT. NO 
MEMORIES FOR ME WITHOUT 
ITII 
WANTED 

AIDS EDUCATION Need student volunteers to be trained by University Health Services and the Indiana State Board of Health to facilitate AIDS education on our campus. Contact: Carol Seager.239-7497. 
ATIENTION: EARN MONEY READING BOOKS! $32,000NEAR POTENTIAL. DETAILS. (1) 602­838-8885 EXT. BK 6262 
RIDE NEEDED TO S.W. 
VA/ROANOKE AREA FOR 
THANKSGIVING. CALL. TOM 
2299. 

EXCELLENT SUMMER & CAREER OPPORTUNITIES NOW AVAILABLE FOR COLLEGE STUDENT & GRADUATES WITH RESORT HOTELS, CRUISELINES,AIRLINES,AMUSE MENT PARKS AND CAMPS. FOR MORE INFORMATION AND AN APPLICATION. WRITE NATIONAL COLLEGIATE RECREATION SERVICE, PO BOX 8074,HILTON HEAD SC 29938. 
I need ND vs. Miami T-shirts! 

Please call Kathleen at 284-5120 
OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo. 
Summer, Yr. round. All Countries. 
All fields. Free info. Wrrte IJC, PO 
BX 52-Corona Del Mar CA 92625 
FOR RENT 

NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR 
NEXT SCHOOL YEAR. 277-3097. 
BOUGHT HOUSE, NEED ROOMMATE. QUIET. NEAR CAMPUS. ROOM FURNISHED OR UNFURNISHED MUST BE MATURE. NON-SMOKER. $200 MO + 1/2 UTIL. CALL 232-9952. 
ROOMMATE WANTED! 
PERSON (MALE) TO SHARE 
TURT. CRK. APT. PRIVATE 
BEDROOM. FURNISHED, 

REASONABLE RENT. CALL 2n­
8398. 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153 
FOR SALE 
GETIING ENGAGED? 

1 CARAT MARQUIS DIAMOND 
RING 4 SALE. CALL 4012. 
80 VW VANAGON. REBUILT 

ENGINE. BODY EXCELLENT. 
VERY RELIABLE. $2000. 234­
8507. 

ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT 
SEIZED VEHICLES FROM $100. 
FORDS, MERCEDES. 
CORVETIES, CHEVYS. 

SURPLUS BUYERS GUIDE. 1­
602-838-8885 EXT. A6262. 
I HAVE 2 GA NAVY TIX LV 
MESSAGE 2888199 

FOR SALE 76 Ford Granada.73.000 miles.need to sell ASAP Call Mukul or Claire 239-5545;287­
n46. 
leading Edge computer, 
monochrome monitor and 

Brother's letter quality printer ­
$800 Ph. 272-8827 

1-WAY TICKET FROM SB TO DALLAS/FORT WORTH. LEAVES DEC 22.FEMALE ONLY. $160.CALL LISA AT 4916. 
IBM PROPRINTER XL & IBM PC Jr. w/ 256K FOR SALE 
Asking $250 for printer I $300 for computer, or best offer-must sell before going abroad for spring semester. Call Christine 283-2845. 
TICKETS 

Travel Tour Operator needs tickets for all N.D. games. home and away, especially MSU, USC and Miami. Premium price paid. 
Immediate case available. Will trade for all major sporting events Including Final 4. Indy 500 and bowl game. etc. Will also buy season tickets. Please call Dave at 1-800-828-8955 today. 
I'll buy any tickets for any home game, or Miami. 
call JEFF at 239-3714, 
leave a message. Thanks. 

NEEDED: 1 USC student tik! PLEASE call: Marci #2695 
Need TXTS All Games call Bill 277-3653 
You need TXTS. call277-3653 
Need two SMU tix please call 284­49301!11!1!1!1 
DESPERATELY NEED: GA'S FOR NAVY AND USC STUD FOR USC AND PITI. $$$$$ ABSOLUTE $$$$$ 
TOP DOLLAR PAID! CALL DAN x1300 
Need TXTS All Games call Bill 277-3653 
You need TXTS. call277-3653 
I WANT TO TRADE TWO PITI GA'S FOR TWO USC GA'S. CALL AMY 283-1265. 
I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S AND 1 PITI GA. CALL LARRY AT X.1864. 
NEED 4 SMU GA'S TIM 271-8795 
"""WANTED: PENN ST & MIAMI TIX CALL Dennis x2002 
Help! Little sis coming from Orygun to see S.M.U. Need 1 
STUD TIX . Please call #4939 
I NEED TWO SMU GA'S AND 
TWO SMU STUD'S! CALL 
ELAINE x4209 
NEED NAVY STU. TX. 2819. 
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S AND 2 SMU 
GA'S. CALL JIM 2n-6405. 
I NEED ONE NAVY STUD. 
TICKET. PLEASE CALL MIKE 
2065. 
HELP! 
NEED MANY NAVY TIX, STUD. 
ORGA. 
PLEASE CALL DAVE 3408. 
NEED 3 NAVY GA'S. CALL JERRY AT3227. 
NEED MIAMI TIX. CALL GREG 
1653. 
NEED 2 SMU STUD. TIX. CALL 
JOHN 1665. 
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S & 1 STUD. 
SMU. CALL JIM 1041. 
NEED 1 NAVY STUD. TIC. CALL 
SEAN3015. 
BADLY NEED 4-6 PENN ST. GA'S. CALL MIKE 232-4208. 
2 GA'S WANTED FOR SMU 
GAME. WILL PAY REASONABLE 
PRICE. LEAVE MESSAGE AT 
(313) 769-5329. 
NEED A NAVY TICKET STUD. OR GA. CALL KIM 2971. 
NAVY NAVY NAVY. NEED 10 GA'S OR STUD. FOR NAVY. CALL TOM AT 1694. 
I NEED 2 NAVY TIX AND 2 SMU 
TIX. PREF. STUD. PLEASE CALL 
STACY 2798. 
MY BROTHER WILL TRADE 
BEAUTIFUL EX-WIFE FOR 1 
NAVY GA OR STUDENT TIC. 
NICK2055. 
I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S CALL 
CHERIE 4969. 
I NEED 4 SMU GA'S. PLEASE 
CALL MARY 288-0885. 
HELP! ANGRY TOLEDO WOMEN ARE AFTER ME! NEED TWO SMU STUDENT TIX. $$$OR NAVY STUDENT TIX IN EXCHANGE. JOHN 1602. 
I NEED 
NAVY/SMU GA'S 
NAVYISMU GA'S 
JEFF 3073. 
HELPIII NEED 3 NAVY STUD. 
TICKETS. CALL KEVIN 288-3032. 
Need 3 GA's for the SMU game in 
sections 36 or 1-4. Call Jerry 4113 HELP!!! MYPARENTS ARE COMING AND WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 3 NAVY GA.'S AND 1 NAVY STUD. CALL LARRY@ X.1864. 
I NEED 2GA'S AND 1 STUD. FOR SMU. CALL MARK @X.1722. 
NEED NAVY & SMU TIX Kevin 256-2927 ° 
NEED NAVY GA'S. CALL SANDY AT 288-0885. 
Need Navy GA's and students for 
friends coming in this weekend. Please call Marty at x 1868. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEEDED: 2 STUD NAVY TICKETS!! Make some extra beer money and sell your tickets-Please call Julie at x4419 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I NEED TWO SMU TICKETS--­STUDENT OR GA---CALL COOP @4245 
SMWho? Exactly how I feel. but for some odd reason my parents want to see this game. Please sell me your SMU GA's and make my dad very happy on his birthday. Call Brigid @ 284-4101. 
I NEED A PAIR OF NAVY GA'S 
CALL MIKE #4047 
I NEED 2 SMU GA'S AND 1 SMU STUD TICKET. CALL AARON AT 3314. 
HELP! I NEED NAVY STUD AND 
SMU GA AND STUD. BILL X3346 
Need 1 Navy GA #2059 
I need 2 to 4 GA's for Navy 
and/or SMU. 

Call Sly at 283-3200 (nights) 
Need 2 Navy stu or GA call Kathi at 284-5525 
Hey zers. I need 2 SMU GA's call 
Amy at 284-5532 
ATIENTION! ATTENTION! 
My sister is trying to decide which 
college she will attend. She has 
narrowed her choice down to 
Notre Dame and that institution of 
all evil, Miami. I need to take her 
to a Notre Dame football game to 
convince her to see light and not 
turn to the dark side. To prevent 
this tradgedy, SELL ME YOUR 
NAVY TICKET. CALL MIKE AT 
1789. 

I need 2 SMU stud. tix in a big 
way! Mike 3501 
need 2 Navy GAs 
money no prob. 
Pat1236 

Need 3 SMU tix-stud or GA call Steve x3150 
For Sale: 2 Navy GAs. Best offer by 3. x4853 
I need 1 STUDENT TICKET for 
NAVY. Brad X3507 
Need 2 NAVY and 2 SMU Stud's 
or GA'S--Call Trish@ 232-1345 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $ I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. WILL $ $PAY CASH OR TRADE SMU $ $GA'S. CALL BRENT X1945$ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I need 1 SMU GA. Please call 
Brian at x1217. 
NEED NAVY STUD. TIX 
CALL MIKE x1423 
or MICHELLE x4060 
NEED 8 GAs FOR NAVY OR SMU. CALL DOYLE x1652 
I need 2 Navy stud. lix call Matt #1791 
DESPARATEL Y seeking one Stud for SMU . Please help. Dennis x17 42 
Wanted: SMU GA's at any price! 
Kevin #1373 

•••NEED''' 
"" 4NAVYTIX •• Call JOHN # 3155 
Need 5 Navy GA's-Julie X3141 Sexual favors or money from yuppie couple for SMU GA's. Please call, or I'll be up a creek. Money is no object, as they are yuppies. My name is Flo and I can make all your dreams come true. x4076. Thanks. 
WE NEED 7 SMU GA'S FOR$$$ SINGLES.PAIRS.ETC ARE FINE MARC X3375 OR DAVE X3387 
TOP$ ALL HOME GA'S 312-920-9350 
I need GA tixs for all home games Esp. for USC $$ 284-5227 Patty 
Mom and Dad are kind of weird Even after seeing the boring Purdue game. they rarin' to see more ND football. Help them out They'll buy any two G.A.s for any home game. Call #3714 and leave a message. 
2 Tixs to all Home Games for sale 272-5092 
NEED smu ga's 277-5934 
Need Navy Tix $$No Issue Jen 284-4110 
Need 11 GA's for Navy. 271-8347. , Ask lor Tony or Sue. 
$"$"$"$"$"$"$"$'$'$"$"$"$"$"$" 
$' 

Need 2 Navy Student 'Tickets Call Norm x4785. Big money! 
I NEED TWO SMU GA'S CALL SCOTI X4113 
DE$$$$$$$$$PERATEL Y NEED NAVY GAs X3500-Watts 
Need Navy tix Please call x1861 
Navy GA's needed Call Chris 1623 
NEED NAVY GA TIX. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL JOE AT 287­4561 AFTER 6PM 
I NEED 6 NAVY TICKETS GA OR STUD CALL DIANE AT X4072 
$$$$$$$$$ HELP!!! NEED 1 NAVY STU CALL MARISA X3487 
NEED NAVY GAS! X3553 
I need 4 Navy GA's for my alumni relatives. Call Terry at 2546. 
Need 4 GA and 2 Stud Navy Tixx call Rob or Scott at 1157 
Need SMU tix-call Karen x4541 
Need 2 Navy GA's. Will pay a magnaminous sum of money. Call Dan at 271-9901 . 
TAKE A BREAK! I'LL BUY YOUR 11-18 PENN STATE SKTS. CALL COLLECT: 609-390-0456. 
WANTED TWO NAVY GA'S 277-8398 
WANTED FOUR NAVY GA'S ONE NAVY STUD. CALL ALEX 1165 
NEED: SMU TICS 2GA 2STUD X2862 JENN BEST OFFER 
I NEED NAVY,SMU.PENN ST. & MIAMI TIXS.272-6306 
NEED 2 NAVY STUDS CALL X2021 
•••••PLEASE HELP••••• THREE FIGHTIN' IRISH FANS 
WANT TO BRING LUCK TO OUR TEAM THIS WEEKEND DONT MAKE THEM CHEER FROM OUTSIDE THE STADIUM 
.....Need 3 Navy tix••• .. Call Trish #2695 
Need 4 Navy stud tix. Mac X4251 or Greg X3479 
Need 2 SMU GA Call-3636 
Need to trade my NAVY Stud tor a SMU Stud Call-3636 
Desperate for 2 Navy tix Stud. or GA call x4875 
HAVE AN SMU STU. WILL TRADE FOR A NAVY STU OR SELL. ANDY 232-2586 
HELP!! I NEED 2 GA'S FOR SMU 
CALL KIM AT 284-4269. THANX! 
Selling 3 St. Tixs for NAVY+ 
SMU. Call Carl, 239 5649 
need 3 smu ga's please call kris x2568 

need 1 Navy stud ticket; 
call Jeff x3364 

STUDENT TICKET FOR SALE .......NAVY AND SMU...... "' CALL 271-5667"" BEST OFFERS ONL Y-PLS 
GREAT SEATS!!!!!!! 40 YD. LINE HAVE 2 ST. TIX ON 40 YD. LINE 
FOR NAVY NEED 2 GA'S FOR NAVY LETS MAKE A DEAL!!!!!! 
KRIS #4340 

Have 4 Navy GAs. Need 4 SMU 
GAs. Will Trade. Call Chris 1191 
.. 

Need two student tickets to NAVY! Call Amy 1265. 
I need Navy tix. call 2741 
Please call x3803 and sell me two 
SMUtix 

Snow, Cold . Wet. Miserable. Sell me your SMU student tickets! Call John @2299! 
NEEDSMUTIX StudorGA call Mike #2742 

NEED ANY AND ALL NAVY GA'S PLEASE CALL 271-8309 
I Have 2 SMU GA's 
Call Matt @ x2265 

NEED 3 SMU GA'S $$$$$$ 
call Greg @ 1856 

~NEED NAVY STUDS AND GA'S CALL MOLLY AT X3885 
Need NAVY and SMU GAs. Please call Matt at #3361 
HELP!!! I NEED 3 NAVY STUDS 
OR GA'S. ANN #2858 

I NEED ONE STUDENT TICKET FOR SMU. CALL CHRIS X3360 
HELP ME PLEASE-I NEED ONE NAVY STUDENT TICKET­URGENTLY CALL ME AT 239­5136. ANYTIME. 
WOULD LIKE many SMU tix GAs and ST. x4352 Ted 
My pet rock died! Need 2 Navy tix 
for funeral party. James x1860 
SMU SMU SMU Need 2Tix (pair or 2 singles) MATix1211 

Need 2 Navy Stud Kevin x1758 
I PERSONALS I 
WANTED: 4 NAVY TIX 4USCTIX 'X'PrrTTIX 

STUDENT OR GA'S ACCEPTED. PLEASE CALL. MATI@X1650 
DON DON DON DON DON DON 
I'M INFATUATED WITH YOU 
YOU ARE SO SEXUAL!! . 
FEHRS FEHRS FEHRS FEHRS 
________ .,. _____________ _ 

HELP!! Sell me yo~;-~-~~;·G~~s 
Call Tina at X4840 

HELP .. I NEED 10+ SMU___ __ TICKETS. Please call Eric at #3543. 
Maggie, Isn't it convenient your 21st is on a Saturday! Happy Birthday! Love Beaner 
see CLASS I page 17 

Thursday, November 2, 1989 The Observer page 13 
Kerr leads Flyers over Red Wings; Blues, Flames triumph 
Flyers 5, Red Wings 5 
DETROIT (AP) -Tim Kerr scored his second goal with 
7:49 remaining in regulation as the Philadelphia Flyers tied the Detroit Red Wings 5-5 Wednesday night. 
Kerr took a pass from Ilkka Sinisalo and beat goalie Glen Hanlon from the faceoff circle 
to  even  the  score  after  the  
Flyers blew a 4-2 lea d.  
Marc  Habscheid  and  Joe  

Kocur greeted Pete Peeters with goals 49 seconds apart midway through the third period to give Detroit a 5-4 lead. Ken Wregget, the Flyers' starting goalie, was removed Y{ith an injured left leg 8:02 irito the final period. On the ensuing faceoff, Shawn Burr worked the puck to Habscheid, who beat Peeters with a high wrist shot. 
Kocur then took a drop pass from Lee Norwood and bounced a shot off Flyers defenseman Jay Wells and past Peeters. 
A league rule prohibits relief goaltenders from warming up when entering the game. Peeters surrendered the goals on the first two shots he faced. 
Philadelphia took advantage of shaky goaltending by Tim Cheveldae in the second period to score three times in a 5:08 span. 
Defenseman Gord Murphy scored twice on long shots. Ron Sutter increased the lead to 4-2 and drove Cheveldae from the game when he deflected Kjell Samuelsson's shot frol'n the right point. 
Detroit's Bernie Federko and Kerr traded first-period goals before Gerard Gallant gave the Red Wings a 2-1 lead 1:17 into the second period. Gallant returned to action after serving a five-game suspension for slashing Vancouver's Garth Butcher. 
Detroit's John Chabot made it 4-3 at 17:46 of the second period. 
Detroit, 4-6-3, is winless in its last five games (0-2-3), while the Flyers, 2-1-1 in their last four, stand at 3-7-2. Both are last in their divisions. 
Blues 5, Whalers 3 HARTFORD, Conn. -Brett · Hull scored two goals and 
added two assists, leading the 
St. Louis Blues to a 5-3 victory 
over the Hartford Whalers 
Wednesday night. 
Hull now has a league-high 13 goals. His first goal, at 
16:31 of the second period, snapped a 1-1 tie. Rod Brind'Amour, Tony Hrkac and Peter Zezel also scored for the Blues. 
The Whalers opened the scoring on Dean Evason's wrist shot from the left circle at 
17:02 of the first period. But Brind'Amour scored five minutes into the second period. 
The Blues gained the lead at 
16:31 of the period. Hull took a pass from Gordie Roberts, skated down the right boards and cut toward the net before 
backhanding  the  puck  past  
Mike Liut.  
Hrkac's  third-period  goal  

gave the Blues a 3-1 lead. Hull scored his second goal at 7:50 of the third period when he put 

* 
in a rebound of Zezel's shot. 
Zezel scored the Blues' fmal 
goal at 15:10 on a breakaway. 
Ron Francis and Pat Verbeek 
scored 17 seconds apart in the 
game's fmal three minutes for 
Hartford. Francis' goal was his 
219th, tying Blaine Stoughton 
for the alltime team lead. 
Flames 5, Jets 3 
CALGARY, Alberta -Gary 
Roberts and Joe Nieuwendyk 
each scored twice and 
goaltender Mike Vernon 
showed no ill effects from a 
back injury that sidelined him 
for four games as the Calgary 
Flames edged the Winnipeg Jets 5-3 Wednesday night. 
Vernon, playing in his 200th NHL game, made 25 saves and picked up his sixth win of the season. It was his first game since back spasms sidelined him Oct. 23. 
Theoren Fleury also scored for the Flames and Sergei Makarov had two assists. Nieuwendyk, who got his second score into an empty net with one second to go, is tied for the league lead with Brett Hull of St. Louis at 13 goals. Nieuwendyk has six goals in five games. 
Randy Carlyle, Doug Smail and Laurie Bos.chman scored 
for the Jets, who haven't won in Calgary since Oct. 10, 1987. Roberts opened the scoring 
1:52 into the game when he took Nieuwendyk's pass from the comer and fired a low shot past goalie Tom Draper. Fleury made it 2-0 before the period ended and Roberts increased Calgary's margin to 3-0 at 1:46 of the second when he took Makarov's pass· in front of the net for his 12th goal. That gave Roberts 12 goals this season. 
Carlyle got a power-play goal when his shot from the point hit Calgary defenseman AI Macinnis's stick and deflected over Vernon's shoulder. 
SPORTS BRIEFS
HAPPY ~~~u BIRTHDAY 

Officials are needed for SMC intramural JACC Court Reservations for volleyball floor hockey. Games will be played on Sunday and basketball will be done according to new afternoons. Call Maureen at 284-5549 for procedures. All reservation requests must be more information. submitted in the NVA office by 5 p.m. Nov. 
Basketball referees are needed for NVA 15. Contact the NVA office for more games during the 1989-90 season. The pay is information. $8 per game. Go to the NVA office for more information. Hapkido Club meets at 8:30 p.m. Tuesdays 
Puck Shoot-out at Notre Dame hockey and Thursdays in 219 Rockne Memorial.
Now no one will take 
games will feature a free spring break trup Sixth-degree black belt Phil Hong will teach 
that beer away from 
as the grand prize. The Irish will play at 8:30 self-defense skills. Call x3597 for more 
p.m. Friday and 7:30p.m. Saturday. information.
you! 

Trivia Bowl continues tonight at S p.m. on Basketball ticket sales will continue today. WVFI-AM 640 live from Grace Hall. Games Freshmen may purchase tickets. Tickets for 
Love, 

will feature Keenan vs. Stanford and Grace the 11 home games are $55 for lower arena vs. Flanner. and $44 for bleachers. 
pper, Ernie, & Chris 

Soccer 
DONATE YOUR BODY TO HELP FIND A CURE. 
FLAG FOOTBALL 
DRIVE TOCURE PARALYSIS 
FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 
NOVEIIBER 17·11 
$25.00 ENTRY FEE PLAYEDATTHELOFTUS 
STUDENTS &STAFF NO HALL RESTRICTIONS 
ALL PARTICIPANTS GETA FREET-SHIRT 
TV's TO THE TEAM WHO RAISES THE MOST$ 
REGISTER AT NVA 
DEADLINE NOVEMBERS 

USF&G NATIONAL COLLEGIATE DANE TO CURE PARAlYSIS. 

GETA PAl 
continued from page 20 
This year's championship game will be played on Sunday at 6 p.m. and is sure to draw a large, enthusiastic crowd. The city of St. Louis is a virtual mecca for soccer. The city's renowned St. Louis Soccer Park holds 6,000 fans in its main field. 
An additional attraction to the weekend is the playing of the United States World Cup qualifying game. The U.S. tea_m plays El Salvador at noon m front of a national television audience, via ESPN. The week­end has the potential for much 
' excitement. The Irish have performed well · this season with a tough sched­ule. Coach Grace and his team know they can compete with anybody this weekend. Also, the team is on a roll, having won four of its last five games. Things will change somewhat though, because it is playoff time. The intensity will be up a notch and hopefully the. Irish ~ll respond in a positive rash­
lOll. 
After all, the hungriest hunter is headed for the NCAA tour­nament. 

CONTACT LENSES 
$49W 
Softmate Clear Dally or Extended Wear 
TINTED LENSES 
2p~${){J§ 
2 c!,W~~'"lf 0~ "()" 

O:lntKtta..,..~~ C..ldl..t~ 
EVEN BIFOCALS & 

1111 E. Ireland Rd.
TRIFOCALS 

Buy a pair of our 291-4000 Fashion Collection glasses and get a 
BB~·!iill 
spare pBlr from our Premium Selection for $1, 

~:1 
No other discouni:S, previous or den, or sale Items appJy. 

.-----------------------------·-------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Thursday, November 2, 1989
page 14 
Wilander eliminated in Paris Open 
Edberg, McEnroe, Chang all advance in tournament 
Irish Gardens••• DaleCardS8 (they're funny!)• different kinds of logos, and other designs by "recycled paper products" Irish Gardens Basement of LaFortune Mon • Sat 12:30 • 5:30pm (Closed home football Saturdays) AowoRKs  Welcomed to South Bend by WSBT~TV22 Your Hometown Station , STUDENTS, AFTER CHEERING NOTRE. DAME TO VICTORY, CAP OFF THE DAY WITH THE PERFECT EVENING! RESERVED SEATS $18.00 & $23.00. ON SALE AT MORRIS AUDITORIUM OR CHARGE BY PHONE (219) 284-9190  

PARIS (AP) -John McEnroe struggled to a 6-3, 6-3 victory over Jonas Svensson of Sweden in the opening round of the Paris Open tennis tournament Wedncsday. 
Fellow Americans Michael Chang and Aaron Krickstein moved into the third round. Chang ripped through Henri Leconte of France, 6-3, 6-2, while Krickstein gained a vic­tory over qualifier Ronald Agenor of Haiti, 6-3, S-7, 6-4. 
Also in the second round, Sweden's Stefan Edberg, the No. 2 seed in the tournament, edged Olympic gold medalist Miloslav Mecir of Czechoslo­vakia. 7-6 (9-7), 6-4, and Swiss Jakob lllasek downed Martin Jaite of Argentina, 4-6, 6-3, 6­4. 
Mats Wilander was not as fortunate. His slide from top continued as he was eliminated by Alberto Mancini of Ar­gentina, 7-6 (1 0-8), 6-4, in the opening round. 
The fifth-seeded Chang had no problems with Leconte as the 17 -year-old french Open champion stayed on the base­line and let his opponent make the mistakes. 
Chang is headed to a quarter­final meeting with McEnroe, who must get past his second­round match Thursday against Horst Skoff of Austria. 
Also Thursday, top-seeded 
Boris Becker plays against 
Frenchman Guy Forget. 
The third-seeded McEnroe 
played erratically. lie jumped to 
a 5-1 lead over Svensson in the 
first set then struggled with his 
serve before taking it 6-3. He 
had four aces but also five 
double faults. 

"That's been the most disap­pointing part of my game throughout the year," McEnroe said. "Sometimes I get in a groove and then other games I miss quite a lot." 
After breaking Svensson in the first game of the second set, McEnroe served but had to go through five deuces before going up 2-0. 
He held then until 4-1, then 
the pair exchanged service 
breaks until Svensson lost his 
at 3-5, giving McEnroe the 
match. 

McEnroe wasted two match 
points serving at S-2 but double 
faulted on one and netted an 
easy volley on the second. 
Mancini and Wilander played 
a baseline game on an indoor surface. In the first set the oQ,iy difference after more than 62 minutes of play was in the tiebreak when Mancini took .two consecutive points after 8­
8. He passed Wilander on a service return then had a serve­and-volley that ended the set in the Argentine's favor. 
"I had a chance in the tiebreak," Wilander said. "When I started winning I be­gan to play a more defensive game. I didn't expect to play better than I did. But when you keep on losing that's not en­couraging. But that's the way it goes." 
Mancini had beaten Wilander twice this season, including a wipe-out in the Monte Carlo Open semifinal which Mancini won by beating Boris Becker in the final. Wilander, who ended up 1988 as the world's No. 1 player, has seen his. ranking drop to No. 13, after being as low as No. 16. 
"I haven't been motivated the last few weeks. I really wanted to win today and I am disap­pointed about losing this match," Wilander said. "It's sort of like one step forward and two steps back." 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 

• AP Photo 
Michael Chang and fellow Americans John McEnroe and Aaron Krickstein all advanced in action in the Paris Open. No. 2 seed Stefan Edberg also won his opening round of play, but Mats Wilander was sent packing early after being upset by Alberto Mancini. 
Thursday, November 2, 1989 The Observer 
page 15 

''As an analyst at Merrill Lynch, I've been given excellent training, alot of responsibility and I'm always exposed to new challenges." 
Jim Karrels, Notre Dame, 1989 Technology/Emerging Growth 
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets invites Notre Dame seniors to attend an informal meeting and reception to discuss opportunities in our 
Corporate Finance Analyst Program 
Thursday, November 9, 1989 La Fortune Student Center Notre Dame Room 8 p.m.-10 p.m. 





~Merrill Lynch 
A tradition of trust. 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~---­
page 16 The Observer Thu~day,November2, 1989 
Central State, Nebraska: bullies from different divisions 
BY STEVE MEGARGEE Associate Sports Writer 
It was the kind of game that would have made Andre Ware and the Houston Cougars feel proud. 
In a small-college matchup last Saturday, NAJA school Central State (Ohio) was leading Lane College (Tenn.) 101-0 early in the fourth quarter. 
That's when Lane players figured out the one way they could keep Central State from scoring -they quit. 
Central State coach Billy Joe was given the football by the Lane team with 11:26 left in the game. The handing over of the game ball to the winning coach is generally the procedure when a team chooses to throw in the towel. 
Lane, an NCAA Division III school, fell behind 60-0 at the half in falling to 1-6-1 on the season, while Central State 
Holtz 
continued from page 20 
days of Holtz. He has also witnessed two different personalties at the helm of possibly the greatest football tradition of all time. 
"I thought Faust focused more on how our team was playing and how Notre Dame would try to exploit an oppo­nent's weaknesses," Howard said. "In comparing the things that Faust and Holtz say to the public, Holtz dwells more on an opponent's strength and what Notre Dame will have to do to overcome those strengths, which doesn't imply that Holtz doesn't focus on an opponent's weaknesses, but rather it isn't in Notre Dame's best interest for his opponents to know his thoughts in those domains in advance." 
Holtz may have poor­mouthed his team at Minnesota four years ago, but he had good reason. The Gophers were out of their league in trying to 

College Football 

upped its record to 7-2. 
Central State, an NAJA school that awarded an honorary doctorate to heavyweight champion Mike Tyson earlier this year, kept its starters in the game for part of the second half. 
For an undefeated team that was selected by many to win the national title this season, Nebraska certainly has gone about its business quietly. 
That stands to happen when your schedule has been a smorgasbord of patsies from various conferences (Oregon State of the Pac-1 0, Minnesota of the Big Ten, Utah of the Western Athletic Conference 
compete with the likes of Michigan and Ohio State. No one doubted statements that Minnesota would probably lose big to those teams. 
"I don't think there were too many games where they played 
. Ohio State and Michigan where overconfidence was a problem," said John Roe, who covered the Gophers for the Minneapolis Star-Tribune in the Holtz era. 
Even with the constant criticism, don't expect Holtz to alter his pre-game tactics. 
Said Notre Dame Sports Information Director John Heisler in a column in the Notre Dame-Pitt program, "Do you want people thinking Lou Holtz is some kind of brash rascal who rips the other team, runs up the score and rubs their nose in it? Now, of course not. Case closed." 
Also bet on the Irish playing in a New Year's Day bowl for the national championship, either in Miami or New Orleans. 
Four million dollars and another national title can do a lot of talking. 

BUY CLASSIFIEDS 

Knock yourself out. From, AHH!, Goop, Schmen, Fine Arms, 0-C, Condor & 
Gay Shoes 
• 
and the entire second half of 
the Big Eight). 

The third-ranked Cornhuskers finally get a chance to make a name for themselves Saturday when they visit Big Eight rival Colorado for a probable Orange Bowl berth. 
The second-ranked Buffaloes have had quite a few more obstacles to reach this opportunity, passing early­season tests against Texas, Washington and Texas A&M. 
But the best-known figure associated with Colorado football is former quarterback Sal Aunese, whose death earlier this fall has inspired the Buf­faloes to their Cinderella season. 
By the end of the week, people like Colorado quarterback Darian Hagan and running backs Eric Bieniemy and J.J. Flannigan or Nebraska quarterback Gerry Gdowski and running back Ken Clark finally should start receiving some acclaim outside the Big Eight geographical region. 
Some conference races already look pretty much cut­and-dry. The winner of the Michigan-Illinois game Nov. 11 should win the Big Ten. The victor in the Southern Cal­Arizona contest that same day also might be going to the Rose Bowl. 
Other conferences have much murkier situations. In the Southeastern Conference, undefeated Alabama has road dates ahead with Louisiana State (perhaps the best 1-6 team in college football history) and arch-rival Auburn. Tennessee, l·lorida and Mississippi are right behind the fourth-ranked Crimson Tide with one conference loss each. 
Virginia visits North Carolina State this Saturday, with the winner taking control of the Atlantic Coast Conference. But if N.C. State wins, the conference title is far from over; the Wolfpack has a road test with Duke the following week. 
The ACC standings now have all three of those teams with one conference loss, and Clemson just behind with two defeats. Virginia and N.C. State both lost to Clemson, Duke fell to Virginia, and Clemson was defeated by Duke and Georgia Tech. 
The Southwest Conference standings are pretty misleading at this point. Texas is atop the conference with a 3-0 league record, but the Longhorns have yet to play Texas Tech, Houston or Texas A&M. Arkansas and Texas A&M each have one conference loss. 
After spending much or the season compiling big-time statistics in front of small-time audiences, Indiana running back Anthony Thompson finally got a chance last weekend to bolster his Heisman Trophy candidacy with an impressive outing on national television. 
Thompson instead probably saw his chances of winning the award disappear as the Hoosiers got thrashed by Michigan 38-10. Thompson gained 90 yards on 30 carries against a strong Wolverine de­fense. Those are good slats, but not lleisman-type numbers, especially when your team loses by four touchdowns. 
Emmitt Smith gets a similar opportunity this weekend when the Florida Gators visit Auburn in an ESPN-televised game Saturday night. Auburn's run­ning defensn is good, but not quite the same as the 1988 defense that did no allow a single back to have a 1 00-yard game during the regular season. 
Former Tennessen tailback Reggie Cobb burned Auburn for more than 200 yards earlier this season, and Florida State freshman backup tailback Amp Lee gained 110 yards on the Tigers this season. 
Smith will need to gain at least 100 yards Saturday to maintain a decent chance at the Heisman, and if he does that and the Gators pull an upset, the junior from Pensacola, Fla., could emerge as a favorite. 
This year's Heisman race remains so wide open that it would come as no surprise if Sports Illustrated comes out with an article nominating Johnny Bailey, college football's all-time IPading career rusher from Division II school Texas A&l, for the award. 
In past years, Sports Illustrated has hyped small­college players Joe Dudek and Gordie l.ockbaum, and both players wnnt on to receive an unusual amount of lleisman attention. 
Good things don't always come in small packages . . 


ThePrudent1al ~ 
-

Comptroller's Organization 
If you're the best, looking to join the biggest 
Come and explore your employment opportunities · with America's leading financial institution. 
rT"he Comptroller's Organization will be on campus interviewing students of all majors. 
November 15 info session 6 PM Alumni/Senior Club Senior Bar 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT YOUR CAREER PLACEMENT OFFICE 
November 16 interviews at the Career Placement Office 
--~-,----~--­
----~---------~--­
Thursday, November 2, 1989 The Observer page 17 
Robinson brings home AL Manager of the Y~r honors 
NEW YORK (AP) -Frank the Blue Jays to first place in from last place to first in one and temperamental in his pre­on Sept. 1 and the teams bat­Robinson, who guided the Bal­the AL East, finished second season. vious stints as manager -led tled down the stretch. Balti­timore Orioles to one of the with three first-place votes and After last year's miserable 
the transformation. more went into a season-end­
greatest turnarounds in base­62 points. showing, Baltimore was ex­At the All-Star break, after ing, three-game series at ball history, was selected Tony La Russa, who guided pected to finish in the basement several feuds with umpires, Toronto trailing by one game,Oakland to the AL pennant and
American League Manager of of the AL East again this sea­Robinson threatened to resign. but the Blue Jays rallied to win 
the Year on Wednesday. World Series title, was third son. Instead, the Orioles moved But a meeting with AL president the first two games and clinch 
Robinson took the Orioles with two first-place votes and· into first place early in the sea­Bobby Brown helped settle the the division title. from last place in the AL East 51 points. son and stayed there for much situation, and Robinson stayed. with a 54-107 record in 1988 to California's Doug Rader fin­of the year, nefore being over­Rookie pitchers Gregg Olson, Just after the season ended,second place and an 87-75 ished fourth with 13 points and taken by the Blue Jays. Bob Milacki, Pete Harnisch and the Orioles announced thatmark this year, only two games Kansas City's John Wathan got Robinson, a Hall of Farner Dave Johnson kept the Orioles Robinson would be back next 
behind Toronto. It was the one point. who played with the Orioles winning, while catcher Mickey year.third-best one-season Robinson was also The Asso­from 1966 to 1971, was pro­Tettleton had an All-Star sea­The Orioles' record equaledturnaround ever. ciated Press' Manager of the moted from coach to manager son. Baltimore set a record for that of the 1982 San Francisco 
He got 23 of 28 first-place Year. in 1988 after Baltimore began the best defense in a full season Giants as the best for a team votes and 125 points on a 5-3-1 The Orioles, rebuilt this year the year with six straight losses and the fans appreciated the managed by Robinson. basis from a panel chosen by around a mostly rookie pitching under Cal Ripken Sr. They went effort by setting an attendance Robinson, 54, who became 
the Baseball Writers Associa­staff and only one proven star, on to lose their first 21 games, record. 
baseball's first black manager
tion of America. shortstop Cal Ripken, almost the worst start in baseball his­A couple of days after the in 1975, has a career record of Cito Gaston, who managed became the first team to tory.
•• season, the Orioles and Robin­649-706. Before taking over the
This year, the youthful Ori­son also got a parade for their Orioles, he managed in Cleve­oles played like confident veter­efforts. 
land (1975-78) and San Fran­
ans, and Robinson -impatient Toronto caught the Orioles 
cisco (1981-84).

INSTITUTE FOR 
IBM would like to congratulate our 'STUDENT ART FORUM'
LYNN, first half pizza winners: 
INTERNATIONAL Class 
STUDENT ART FORUM
CONGRATULATIONS 
Dale Wright

continued from page 12 
& GOOD LUCK WITH FCC! Alicia Biagi THURSDAY NOV.2


PEACE STUDIES 
COLLEEN 

Jim lechle~er YOU HAVE SUCH A GREAT Matt Kelley all welcome · 
OONFEHRS: 7 PM Sn~e Museum 
VOICEI MIKE FROM MORRISSEY Lou Medeiros You are smooth! (nice hat Wed. Andrew Campbell STUDENT ART FORUM
MAJOR GENERAL PAT BRADY 
lunch) If she hadn't asked you to Stefanie Slebodnick 'STUDENT ART FORUM'
U.S. ARMY JOE CHURA the SYR 1st... We encourage all students to is my enter for the next give away at 
LAST TEMPTATION the IBM display in the ND NOTRE DAME. .. Chief of Army Public Affairs Athletic Prowess
Computer Store. Winner, Congressional Medal of Honor 
wishes to trade 2 

Notre Dame MBA 72 s Be on the lookout for the classiest 
SMU ga's for 2 Navy ga's. 
T T-shirt on campus. Coming to a Call Boss x3001 R M HiAg! dining hall near youI (or call x1634 "ETHICS AND LEADERSHIP" H A for details) 
....................................

is coming! s
••••••••••••····••·················· c Need X-MAS or bar cash? Universijy Pizza is NOW HIRING
NOTRE DAME. .. Get your family and friends
Thursday, November 2, 1989 drivers and inside help. We'll work 
Academic Excellence the perfect gift that SAYS IT ALL! Thank You St. Jude
with any schedule (8-40 hrs/wk). 
4:00P.M. 
Good pay, great people Ill Apply at
FELTCHIIIIII NOTRE DAME.... Hey Molly! Have you had any good
18055 St. Rd. #23 (oppositeHesburgh Library Auditorium 
ACADEMIC EXCELLENCE bananas lately?. 
Coach's & 3 drs closer to the mall). '
MODELS NEEDED FOR BEAUTY NOTRE DAME.... SHOW NOV. 13TH, CENTURY ATHLETIC PROWESS The Model Unned Nations Co-sponsored with the Notre Dame ROTC Units CENTER. L'OREAL EXPERTS meeting scheduled for Thursday, WILL HELP YOU CHOOSE THE !-shirts only $10 Nov. 2, has been changed to Open to public, no admission charge CHIC NEW HAIRCUT, sweatshirts only $15 Thursday, Nov. 16.
NAVY AND SMU TICKETS FOR HIGHLIGHTS, COLOR OR PERM 
INNER CITY KIDS. ST. 
YOU DESIRE. ALL SERVICES These phenominal gifts can be TAKE A BREAK­
STEPHEN'S CHURCH WOULD ARE FREE "BECAUSE YOU'RE picked up at the DINING HALLS on Come the the
LIKE TO GIVE KIDS A CHANCE 
WORTH IT." Thurs. and Fri. only or CALL GORCH GAMES ROOM
TO SEE ND PLAY. LIKE TO 
MODEL CALL-THURSDAY, NOV. BRENNAN@ #1634 to get your in LaFortune. We've got much
DONATE A TICKET? WRITE OR 
9TH, 7 PM, MARRIOTT HOTEL, family and friends the perfect gift ! more room for you!
CALL ED LANGLOIS, CSC AT SOUTH BEND. 
MOREAU SEMINARY, 239-7735. 









WALLYBALL ••• 
VOLLEYBALL IN ARACQUETBALL COURT 
REGISTERATNVA DEADLINE: NOV. 8 
A BEHIND THE SCENES LOOK AT POLITICAL LIFE IN WASHINGTON 
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN A CAREER IN POLITICS OR IF YOU ARE JUST CURIOUS AND WANT TO DISCOVER WHAT A POLITICIAN'S LIFE REALLY ENTAILS THEN COME LISTEN AND TALK WITH ND GRADUATES PAUL'UNGER AND KURT PFOTENHAUER BOTl-l ARE CHIEPS OF STAFF FOR CONGRESSMEN DENNY SMITH AND BOB SMITH, RESPECTIVELY 

PLACE: MONTGOMERY THEATRE IN LAFORTUNE 
When: THURSDAY NOV. 2-7:00 to 9:00 
Co-sponsored by: 




Student Alumni Relations Group 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Get your NDPONCHO before ~ rains! 
Great to stuff in your backpack for 
school. Only $2.50 at the Information Desk in LaFortune. 
DILLON NIGHT AT THE MOVIES 
,FRIDAY­
9:00 Who Framed Roger Rabbit? 
11 :30 The 'Burbs 
-5ATURDAY­
9:00 Major League 
11 :30 Rain Man 
In the Dillon Party Room They're FREE-so don't miss 'emI 
Cara mia Valentina, Happy Belated Halloween to my genie with the light blond hair! Can we do lunch again soon? Ciao, Me 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIOR INFORMAL THIS FRIDAY!! Txs in Class Office 3-5pm Hurry, the Marriott only holds so MANY!!! 
SENIORS SENIORS NO JOKEI SENIOR INFORMAL IS THIS FRIDAY!! Get a group and go stag!! HURRY 
NAVY NEED 1TICKET STUDorGA x2614 
THE COPY SHOP IS OPEN IN THE BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE Special this .week 3-1/2" DS/DD computer disks are only 99¢ 
Looking for riders to U of Dayton this Sat-Sun. Call 2722 
CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable atmosphere, daily & weekly specials, pool table, English darts, and great company. 234-3541 


page 18 The Observer Thursday, November 2. 1989 
• 

Irish may surpass record unless Navy, SMU stage upsets 
Unless Navy or SMU is ready to play a game for the ages sometime in the next two weeks, Notre Dame will close its home schedule by setting a school record for consecutive victories. 

Notre Dame won 21 consecutive games between Steve 1946 and 1948. Dating back to Megargee
last year, the Irish have won 20 
in a row. with the last loss Associate Sports 
coming to Texas A&M in the Editor 
1988 Cotton Bowl. Seven of the 
wins have come against top 10 teams. 
Irish coach Lou Holtz realizes the difficultv of that accomplishment, especially considering the schedule Notre Dame has faced, but he says he is making no big deal about the record to his players. 
"We really haven't talked much about it," said Holtz, whose next win will be the 150th of his 20­year coaching career. "I told the football players that when your career's over is when you want to sit back and look back at your career. 
"You don't want to evaluate your career when you're a sophomore or in the middle of your senior year. You just sit back and when it's over, look back and see what you've acr·omplished. 
Holtz surprised a few people at Tuesday's weekly press conferencP when somebody brought up the topic of bowls. 
Mentioning the early date the team reported to campus for pre-season drills and the unusually late date for the end of the semester, the Irish coach replied that he was not sure whether the team should go to a bowl this year. 
"Our players have not been home," said Holtz. "They missed fall break, they will be in Miami for Thanksgiving, and now they're going to miss Christmas? 

''I'm not sure our team can be adequately prepared to play in a bowl game. We need to see realistically whether we want to play in a bowl game or should play in a bowl game." 
While Holtz's statements came as a surprise, it seems extremely unlikely that Notre Dame would not attend a bowl this year. Irish cornerback Todd Lyght took questions after Holtz was finished, and he made it sound as though the team was certainly looking forward to post-season play. 
"I definitely feel we should have the opportunity to play in a bowl game," said Lyght. "We're all looking forward to playing in a particular bowl game. Some guys have preference for what bowl game they want to play. I personally want to play in the Sugar Bowl against the champion of the Southeastern Conference." 
Lyght recorded his seventh interception of the season last weekend and is living up to his preseason billing. The Sporting News had rated the junior from Flint, Mich., as the top cornerback in the nation last season. 
"If we ever have an all-American on our football team, it's Todd Lyght," said Holtz. "Seven interceptions is almost unheard of for a cornerback. He plays as well as any defensive back, not only that I've coached, but that I've observed." 
Lyght, who did not have a single interception last season, says the change partly results from a change in his philosophy on pass defense. 
"Last year, I concentrated more on not letting the receiver catch the ball," he said. "Now I'm concentrating on taking the ball away. That attitude has improved my game tremendously. 
The Irish also have seen improvement from the tailback position the last few games. 
Haghib "Hocket" Ismail has gained 200 yards on 24 carries since moving into the backfield on a more regular basis in the Air Force game. 
Iticky Watters has averaged over seven yards per carry over the last three games with 29 rushes for 205 yards. 
These last few games also have seen the Irish backs, particularly Watters, being more physical than they had previously been in their running styles. 
"We're running harder," said Holtz. "We're becoming more aware of what the tailback position entails. When you run out of blockers, you have to 
B.Y.O.B. -be your own blocker. 
"If you watch the great backs, when they run out of blockers, they say. 'Okay, .J'm going to go down, but I'm going to take people with me and get an extra couple of yards.' When the game's over, and you're a fullback or tailha,·k, you sit in the whirlpool, nul go lu li w JarH'I'... 
The Irish have quill' ·t 1'1'\\ players banged up heading into this w''"k"!'• ,. h•:nw game with Navy. 
Defensive end Drwon McDonald (knee) and lineman Tom Gorman (ankle) will probably miss the contest. ' 
Defensive backs Greg Davis (wrist) and Stan Smagala (hip) and running bark Reggie Brooks and (ankle) are questionable, while Anthony Johnson (ankle) is possible. 
Linebacker Ned Bolcar also has all sort of aches and pains, probably the result of playing nearly every down for much or the season. The senior tri­captain's list of injuries include a sprained wrist, sore shoulder, deep thigh bruise, swollen knee and sore ankle. 

tournament last spring. The top live singles players
Tennis 
and three doubles teams are 
continued from page 20 playing in the ICTA qualifiers, 
which begin today. While the Kristy Doran fifth and junior Irish have been successful thus Kim Pacella sixth. far, Louderback still could see 
Barton teamed with freshman the lineup changing by the time Eniko Bende as the top doubles the spring season gets under­pair, with Harris and Lohrer way. seeded second and Clark and "We've got a lot of playersDoran third. 
who will battle for the bottom 
Those six players and three part of the lineup," said Loud­doubles teams all won their erback. "We have a lot of good flights at the MCC champi­players who be battling for 
onships, duplicating the sweep spots. That should keep every­the Irish performed last fall on one on their toes." their conference opponents. The Irish are preparing for a 
Marquette was not a member spring schedule that will include of the MCC last year. The new­four of the nation's top 11 comers to the conference faced teams according to the pre­Notre Dame players in the fi­season rankings: UCLA (2nd), nals of eight of the nine brack­Pepperdine (5th), Texas (9th) 
ets. and Indiana (11th). 
"We'd lost to (Marquette) last Notre Dame also will face year in a dual match," said most of the Big Ten schools. Louderback. "We played them Marquette and Butler are the in eight of the finals, and we only MCC teams on the spring won all eight of them." schedule. 
Notre Dame also fared well in "The Big Ten's a good tennis a tournament at Syracuse, conference," said Louderback. N.Y., last month. Barton won "We don't play any bad teams the number-one singles draw, at all. Every match is tough." 
and Pacella took the sixth­seeded singles bracket. ThP Irish ranked fifth in its Also this fall, the doubles region last year. Louderback is 
team of Barton and Bende de­looking for a second-place lin­feated a Penn State tandem ish this year in a region that in­that had reached the NCAA cludes all the Big Ten schools. 

~Jl!ffQ

PLOttGE 

Orientation Workshop Nov. 5 Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
2:30 to 4:30 P.M. 

This event is required for all 
Urban Plunge participants. 


Trojans 
continued from page 20 
. Notre Dame's six single positions were filled by four freshmen. 
Freshman Chuck Coleman, the Irish's No. 3 player, led the charge by knocking off the Trojans No. 3 Andras Lanyi, who is the No. 1 player on the Hungarian Davis Cup team, 3­6, 6-3, 6-4. 
"Chuck played an inspired match," said Bayliss. "Lanyi was too quick for Chuck which is unusual but he hit a strong ground game and hit behind 
h.
Ill. " 
The other two Irish singles victories were turned in by Andy Zurcher and Mark Schmidt. 
Zurcher defeated Martin Dionne in three sets, 6-1, 3-6, 6-4. Schmidt rebounded from dropping the first set to win in three sets over Paul Brandt, 4­6, 6-3, 6-1. 
"t\.ndy Zurcher played just as agg,·essive as possible," explained Bayliss. "lie dominated the first set and simply outcompeted Dionne. Schmidt was his "rock solid market-wise self." 
Dave DiLucia, Notre Dame's No. 1 player, had trouble with USC's No. 13 ranked Byron Black but he had to fight a battle just to play in the match. 
DiLucia embarked on a seven­hour campaign to participate in the first dual match of the sea­son. After losing in his morning match in the Volvo All­American Collegiate Championships, DiLucia flew from Athens to Charlotte to Chicago. Upon arriving in Chicago, Dilucia took a private plane to South Bend. 
Once the No. 1 match was underway, after an hour-df'lav. Black, a member of tlw Zimbabwe Davis Cup T1·am, wore down DiLucia in a dose two-set match, (,-4, 7-5. Although DiLucia urupped his singles match, his presence enabled the other Irish pi 

to play at their normal 
position. 
"David deserves credit for 

being there," said Bayliss. It 
was a pick-me-up to have him 

here. lie played well but we 
were asking a little two much. David was playing on fumes." 
And just how close were the Irish to rocking the collegiate tennis world? 
"Coming into the match, I thought it would be a 6-3, 7-2 match," said Trojan head coach Dick Leach. "I was really surprised that Notre Dame played so well. It isn't easy to play us. Notre Dame will be in the Top 20 this year and will be in the Top 10 rwxt Y'~ar. They will be thP pownrhousn of tennis in the Midwest." 
NotrP l>ant•1's No. 1 player, Daw Dil.11ria. rr1ceived one of nirH' a1-largt~ bids to the Na1 ionaJ Jntercollegiate Championships. This tournament will be held on Nov. 17-19 in Hilton Head, S.C. 


Thursday, November 2, 1989 The Observer page 19 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


Affl.JCAIIO~~ fO~ THe A~T'OSOti-ll.}o 5)!J:Ul11VfE ~P\-f'F A~ ,AVA I a...A1H-S 
It-l ntE $i~ OA='&c.e,. 
G,~ IN VO L-V.E-D! KLJ~
ApPI...tGA1'Jo.JS Atu= WIS. AUPt1 OJ2lUt-1 ~\PAY~ "-10~. 31tP ~t~H-r 1:eo~'DO (A) t1e>to4r~Ml!J.fi-Y '·ou,e '"'o ~ ,c,·t'S s~w5 ~n=t2. ltJ t};f:t>~t_Tl)N E A'PMlSS tO~: $~.GO 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 

3:30 p.m. Lecture: Dr. Ernest van den Haag vs. Professor John Robinson on aspects of capital punishment. Law School Courtroom. Sponsored by Feder­alist Society, Notre Dame Law School. 
4:15 p.m. Lecture: "Traditional Popular Religion and Its Decline in Ireland, 1700-1850," Professor James Don­nelly, University of Wisconsin-Madison. Room 122 Hayes­Healy Auditorium. Sponsored by Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism. 
MENUS  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Irish Fried Flounder  Turkey Cutlet  
Stir Fry Beef and Green Pepper  Hungarian Goulash  
Fried Bologna Sandwich  Hawaiian Stir Fry  

M 
A 
T 
H 
1 
0 
1 

A pubhc servrce message from The Observer 
CROSSWORD 
47 Writer Berne 48 U.N. financial 
agency 51 Compelled 55 Chanter 57 Dan-Billy 
partnership 59 Thin coin 60 Latin 
list-shortener 61 Controls 62 Bob or dog 
chaser 63 Moist 64 Part of Q.E D 
DOWN 
1 Applied hair color 2 "Jack Sprat could-fat" 3 S.A. monkey 1=--+--+--1­
4". ­
craz'd": Shak. 5Abate 6 Miss. neighbor 
23"Tenthousand7 A Sinatra 
sawlat-": 
a Uncertain Wordsworth 
bettor's activity 25 Kennel sound 9 Courting 26 Bern's river 10 Goldie of films 27 The whole bit 11 Mine finds 28 Type of log 
12 D.A.'s helper 29 Crossed out
13 Swedish rock group 30 Stylish 17 Knotty situation 31 Zeus's wife 18 The Dorseys' 32 Dolorous ensembles exclamation 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
/1.\.L RIG\-\T, CU>,'SS, W~O 
'f-.lOIJLD LIKE. T() GIIJE \-\IS 
RE.~T FIR.sl? 
WILBUR AND WENDEL 
BILL WATIERSON 
THE FAR SIDE 

1\\Mo\1::: '100. GARY LARSON 
I Bt.GI~, l'O LIKE 
E'JE.~'IO~E. TO 
t{CTI~ ~~ !--\~ 
Rffi)RJ \~ \!\ "' 
PRCIT.§\Ot\f!-L I 
CL£(>..11.. Plf>.STIC. 
B\NOER. 
JAY HOSLER 

ACROSS 
1 Honor-society letter 5 Lattice piece 9 Command to Dobbin 13 Gil's creator 14 Metchnikoff or Wiesel 15 Bireme equipment 16 Red-Major partnership 19 Juarez and Mussolini 20 Anti 21 Hurry-scurry 22 Light bulb, in comics 
24 Wayfarer's stop 25 Loretta-Marvin 
partnership 30 Shackles 33 Falls behind 34 Formal wear, 
informally 35 Pitch in 36 Duffer's quest 37 A spy, perhaps 38 Nest-egg plan 39 Benison 41 Iced some 
doughnuts 43 Johnny­Macdonald partnership 46 "Wh~re the Boys 
36 Seed container 37 Has permission 39 Nile sight 40 Like some face 
cards 41 Big smiles 42 Sermonize 44 Flagged down 45 In a dry manner 48 Where Rush-
die's roots are 
491ntended 50 Playwnght Christopher's 
family 51 Track slats 52 Get-out-of-jail 
money 53 Jello flavor 54 Calendar item 56 Lulu 58 Slangy denial 

"Ok! Now don't move, Andy! ... Here comes Mom!" 
• 


Sports

page 20 Thursday, November 2, 1989 
Youth proving to be key ~o Irish tennis teams' fall success 
Despite changes, losses women excel 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 
Without the coach and top singles player who led the Irish to their best season in history last spring, the Notre Dame women's tennis team is picking up right where it left off. 

The Irish, winners of the Midwest Collegiate Conference last week, send five singles players and three doubles teams to the Intercollegiate Tennis Coaches Association qualifiers this weekend at Madison, Wise. 
"Everybody is doing a great job," said first­year Irish coach Jay Louderback, a former men's and women's coach at Iowa State. "I'm impressed with the players in practice. It's been enjoyable to be around them." 
Notre Dame posted a 16-6 record last spring, the last season of Michele Gelfman's four-year tenure as the Irish head coach. Gelfman resigned after the season. 
During the fall, the Irish also have been without last year's top singles player, junior CeCe Cahill, who elected not to play this year, according to Louderback. 
Notre Dame's singles lineup at the MCC championships at St. Louis over fall break had sophomores Tracy Barton, Melissa Harris and Katie Clark holding the top three spots in order, senior Alice Lohrer seeded fourth, sophomore 
see TENNS I page 18 

BY CHARLIE POLLARD 
Sports Writer 
It has been said that a hungry hunter hunts best. 
If such proverbial logic holds true, then only the best can· be expected from the Notre Dame men's soccer team at this weekend's MCC championships in Saint Louis. All indications point towards a hungry group of Irish soccer players. 
Nevertheless, winning this tournament will take more than the proper attitude. The field is strong and the Irish will have to play their best soccer of the season to emerge as champi­ons. The stakes are high with the winner receiving an auto­matic bid to the NCAA tourna­ment. 
A year ago, the Irish sur­prised many by taking the MCC title in an impressive three­game sweep. Tlwy crushed Detroit 6-0, then upset top twenty-ranked Evansville and St. Louis by identical 2-0 scores. This feat gained the 

Observer File Photo 

Senior Alice Lohrer is an elderstatesmen on a women's tennis squad led by underclassmen. Despite acquiring a new coach and losing their No. 1 singles player, the Irish have made their presence felt during Fall 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team will be 'hungry hunters' going into today's MCC Championships. The 
Irish will try to claim a second consecutive MCC Championship and garner its spoils-an automatic berth to 
the NCAA Tournament. The Irish take on Xavier today in the first round of play in Saint Louis, Mo. 
ND soccer readv for MCC Tourney 
Irish seek to repeat as Mtc champs to earn NCAA bid 

action. 
Patrick Kusek 

Irish an at-large bid to the 
NCAA tournament, with an 
overall record of 17-3-2. 
Much has changed in a year's 
time. 

As defending MCC champs, the Irish currently have an overall record of 9-6-3, yet boast an MCC North Division record of 5-0-1. The only impurity in their confer­ence record was a 2-2 tie with Marquette on Sept. 24. The Irish handed the other division opponents, Detroit and Loyola, four defeats in four games. 
In the MCC tournament the two divisions, North and South, play-off against each other ac­cording to seeds. The Irish have the No. 1 seed in the North fol­lowed by Marquette, Detroit and Loyola. In the South, top seed and nationally top ten­rated Evansville is followed by St. Louis (ranked in the top 20), Dayton and Xavier. 
Thus, Notre Dame squares off against Xavier at 11 :00 
a.m. On paper, the Irish are the superior team. Coach Dennis Grace knows this yet, hesitates to broadcast it. 
"They are a competitive team. They played a competitive schedule," said Grace. "I hope our team isn't looking past Xavier and ahead to St. Louis and the revenge factor. If so, we will get beat." 
The "revenge factor" Grace 
· speaks of refers to the 2-0 loss St. Louis handed the Irish in their first regular season game. The Irish players must leave such vengeful thoughts behind them if they expect to be alive for the second, and semi-final round. 
Should the Irish defeat Xavier, they will play on Friday against, most likely, the St. Louis Billikens. This game would prove to be quite a heated match up. The host Billikens would be favored to win, yet the same scenario did not prevent the Irish from beating them 2-0 in last year's MCC championship game. 
see JUMP I page 13 
Men's squad nearly upsets So. Cal 5-4 
BY BOB MITCHELL 
Sports Writer 

When Notre Dame tennis coach Bob Bayliss was able to lure No. 11 Southern California to South Bend, the intent was to be competitive with the Trojans as well as provide the Mid­western tennis community with the opportunity to observe this perennial collegiate tennis power for the first time. 
Yet, a young Irish squad took the Trojans to the brink of an earth-shaking upset before bowing to USC in the last match of the day-the No. 1 doubles team-5-4. 
"The Southern California match was a great night for Notre Dame tennis," said Bayliss. "We had an outstanding crowd and the match showed that people would pay money to see great tennis·. The freshman really distinguished themselves. They will be heard from in the fu­ture." 
To say the least, the Trojans have already taken notice. To the surprise of the 512 onlook­ers at the Eck Tennis Pavilion on October 20th, two things happened: The Irish's No. 1 Dave DiLucia returned from the Volvo Collegiate Championships in time to fill the top spot and Notre Dame came out of the singles competition deadlocked at 3-3. Moreover, the three Irish single victories cam~ from the highly touted group of freshman. 
see TROJANS I page 18 
There it was. In blaek and white. In newspapers all across the Lou Holtz teleconference area. 
Most times, you can just grin and ignore the poor-mouthing that comes from the Notre Dame mentor, the man who is 52 going on 73. 
v 
But this wasn't necessarily poor­mouthing. This was almost a Greg Guffey prediction, almost a foreshadowing, Assistant Sportsalmost a look into that crystal ball Editorthat only Holtz can see and understand. 
''I'm not sure our team can be adequately prepared to play," Holtz said about the possibility of playing in a bowl game. 
On numerous occasions, Holtz has seemed close to losing his mind. But this time, I thought that he had finally lost the connection with earth and reality. 
I couldn't explain it myself, so I put in a call to the psy­rhology department, the department that can explain the workings of the human mind with ease. 
Another ploy, with some concealed motive? I asked. Per­haps not this time, said Dr. George Howard, a nine-year professor in the department. 
''I'm delighted that someone would open a discussion about the relative merit of money and national ranking as they sometimes conflict with sound educational and human­istic values," Howard said. "While I personally still hope the team goes to a bowl, I'm delighted that people arc seriously questioning whether it is in everyone's best interest this year. Better to have thought through the pros and cons of a decision in advance and decided where our values lie in this instance than to have unthinkingly done what was expected of us." 
While that could indeed be a valid explanation, how could Holtz also proclaim that Navy presents a legitimate threat to Notre Dame's national ranking? Navy, a team with just two wins all season? 
"When you listen to Holtz, if you take his remarks to be an accurate prediction of how an opponent will play against Notre Dame, then you're missing the point of his job," Howard said. "Rather, his task is to imagine how well an opponent might perform and get his team ready to play a lit­tle better. 
"So his comments about an upcoming opponent will be ac­curate only if the worst happens for Notre Dame -the oppo­nent plays as well as it possibly can. Any inaccuracy in pre­dictions by Holtz simply means that the opponent doesn't play up to its potential against us. But in those instances, that doesn't jeopardize Holtz's goals because any inferior performance makes it more likely Notre Dame will be suc­cessful." 
In his tenure at Notre Dame, Howard has seen the football 
program go from the dog days o'f Gerry Faust to the glory 
see HOLTZ I page 16 



