
VOL. XXIII NO. 53 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
St. Michael's destroyed in early morning blaze 

,, 
\

'•"''1'.. 
~~{ 



By VALLI VAIRAVAN lecture. as part of the Family mother's, her's and the present News Writer and Gender Issues Week. The college-aged generation. lecture was attended by an en­For Smeal's mother, "life was 
"Therp is no question about thusiastic audience of predomi­totally, utterly, completely dif­major changes taking place in nantly women in the Library ferent.., " when cooking and our society, both for men and Auditorium. laundry each took a whole day. wonwn," said Eleanor Smeal, a Smeal asserted that one of Now, in the post-industrial so­political activist for women's the basic problems with con­ciety, said Smeal, household du­rights in her lecture on the temporary society is the as­ties have become easier and the changing roles of men and sumption that there are roles family size has decreased sub­women Wednesday night. for men and women, which she stantially. 
Smeal. fornwr president of characterized as the "Leave It The changes that came about the National Organization of To Beaver Syndrome." Smeal in the 1960's and 70's "which Women (NOW), and founder went on to discuss how Schlafly would like to say is and president of the Fund for dramatically life has changed in because of the Feminist Move-the Feminist Majority, rebutted three generations: her Phyllis Schlally's conservative see WOMEN I page 4 
Faculty considers East Germany 
By PETER LOFTUS things go well in the Soviet reforms without the consent of 
News Wnter Union." the Soviet Union. 
Wegs stressed that the Professor Donald Kommers 
The dPveloping events in East Soviet Union has played a of the Law School said that the Germany are important land­?lajor role in the recent Soviet Union has "prodded"marks in both European and Increased freedoms and East Germany to pass these re­intPrnational relations. accord­reforms in East Germany. forms. According to Kommers,
ing to some members of the the East German governmentNotre Dume faculty. The par­The reforms implemented by has been reluctant to agree to 
tial opening of the Berlin Wall the East German government reforms, as there has alwaysis snen as an historic symbol. include a decrease in travel re­existed some degree of tension strictions, further acknowl­between East Germany and the
"It's the nnd of an era," said edgement of non-Communist Soviet Union. 

Hobert Wegs. chairman of the parties in the East Germany, Stephan Stolz professor ofhistory department. Wegs said and a widespread shakeup in mathematics and a native ofthat the dismantling of the government personnel. Accord­West Germany, felt that theBerlin Wall "symbolizes the end 
ing to Wegs, East Germany
of the cold war assuming 
could not have put forth these see FACULTV I page 6 
ND makes strides in computer capabilities 
By SARAH VOIGT 
a growing number of employees News Staff who coordinate the mainte­nance and upgrading of the 
Although the University has new computers and centers. had a delayed start in the race Donald Spicer, assistant for improved technology to provost for University Comput­supplement higher education, ing and director of the cam­the Office of University paign, recognizes the need to Computing has made Center, the architecture build­avoid the tendency to fall be­tremendous strides since just ing and Hesburgh Library have hind in the five year plan after last year. been recently purchased as the initial big push of spending 
In fact, three of the four part the University's $2.7 mil­following the long planning pe­computing clusters on campus lion dollar plan for upgrading riod. were just opened for student campus computing. "We need to keep up the use at the beginning of this The cost of the new comput­momentum of this project," semester. ers does not end with the pur­Spicer said. "Our strategy is to 
The Macintosh and DOS com­chase. Instead, the Office of puters in LaFortune Student University Computing employs see COMP. I page 5 
Brownson and Lewis evacuated 
By JOHN O'BRIEN, she said, "We thought Lewis 
JOE ZADROZNY and was on fire." THERESA KELLY At 4:10 a.m., the security ra­News Writers dio channel said, "The fire is 
pretty much contained, but 
An explosive fire engulfed and they're going to be putting wa­destroyed St. Michael's Laundry ter on it for quite some time." in the early morning hours Authorities said that there Thursday. was probably no one in the 
At approximately 2:15 a.m. building at the time of the fire. Notre Dame Security received The cause of the fire is unlikely word of the fire, according to to be known until Thursday Sergeant Delinski of Notre afternoon. Dame Security. By 2:30 a.m. By 2:35 a.m., two units of the flames could be seen burning fire department were inside the through the roof, as the inside Laundry, according to a Fire of the building glowed brightly Department spokesman. from the spreading flames. "We were called by security at 
"We're losing this building," about 2:10," said Jing Fan, a said a voice over Security's ra­graduate student who lives in dio channel. Brownson Hall. "They caught 
The roof over the eastern each of us and told us to pack portion of the Laundry col­our things and get out quickly. lapsed at 3 a.m., sending a We looked out, and all we could fireball 100 feet into the air. see was smoke." The east wall of this section of Vice President for student af­the building lies no more than fairs Father David Tyson ar­20 yards from the Earth rived on the scene at approxi­Sciences Building. mately 2:50. Executive Vice 
Several explosions were seen President Father William and heard. Beauchamp was also at the 
The Security radio channel scene. announced at 3:10 a.m. that "Lewis Hall and Browson Hall Security personnel did not are being evacuated," and that, confirm the presence of explo­"Breen Phillips, Knott, and sive materials but said, "There Siegfried should prepare to probably are extremely take students from Lewis." flammable materials in there, 
University President Father cleaning solutions and the like." Edward Malloy said, "I heard At least seven fire trucks the alarm and I turned on the were at the scene, including the radio [security scanner). I units from the Notre Dame Fire thought that it was Brownson, Department and the South because that's what they were Bend Fire Department. evacuating." He arrived at the University Security, Saint scene around 2:45. Mary's Security, the South Bend 
"When I first saw it, it was Police Department, and the In­not engulfed in flames like it diana Highway Patrol were on was later," said Malloy. "No the scene to control the hun­one was hurt as far as we know dreds of witnesses. and we hope that continues." The Golden Dome of the Ad­
"It was pretty scary because ministration Building was al­we didn't know exactly where most invisible behind a a thick the fire was," said one Lewis cloud of black smoke and flying resident. "I looked out a win­cinders could be seen as far dow into the Lewis courtyard south as LaFortune Student and could see an orange glow," Center. 
E. German group to challenge Parliament 
BERLIN (AP) -An East gathered at the enormous German political group said Brandenburg Gate, hopingWednesday it would make the East Germans would 
the first direct challenge to break through the Berlin Communist rule by asking Wall in front of the 200­Parliament this week to end year-old "symbol of unity."
the party's 40-year-old A West German television monopoly on power, and network said up to 7,000 predicted an easy victory. East German refugees were 
Communist officials expected to return to their spurned West Germany's homeland. offer of an economic bailout. The East German constitu­They said they prefer their tion's guarantee of a own course to recovery and "leading role" for the Com­hinted at reforms to encour­munist Party will be chal­age free-enterprise invest­lenged at Friday's sitting of ment. the increasingly independent­
Bild, a mass-circulation minded Parliament, said West German newspaper, Manfred Gerlach, head of the reported Wednesday that Liberal Democratic Party. Chancellor Helmut Kohl It was unclear whether a would meet with party chief vote on the constitutional 
Egon Krenz after a Commu­change would come the same 
nist Party congress Dec. 15-day. 
17 that is expected to make "I figure it will pass with a 
major changes in the East large majority," Gerlach told 
German leadership. 
In West Berlin, hundreds see GERMAN I page 3 
r-~------------------~-----~ ~ ~ 

page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Mystery of turning 21 1s hard to drink in 
Like the eVPr-wise 
Madonna says, "Life is a mystery," and it really is, beeause tlwre are lots of things to ponder in our daily lives: what is yogurt. why did ...._ 


God make poison ivy, did tie-dye shirts Florentine Hoelker eome directly from . . 
the prinwval ehaos Assistant News Ed1tor bdore ereation, and a million other things. One of life's mysteries that I have recently eneountPrnd is the eoming of age to 21. Earlier this week. I turned 21. Happy belated birthday. you say'? You're a day late and a dollar short. So, I am now finally, offically, legally recognized as an adult. Basically. this means I can drink without having to worry whether the South Bend police will put me in jail. My roommate Jerry (who also turned 21) posed this question to me as one of life's mysteries: what is the reasoning behind the fact that one minute, at 11:59 p.m., you are too immature to drink, and the next, at midnight on your birthday you can handle it'? Our whoh~ younger society is messed up by this mystery. Everywhere people have fake JD's, pretending they are 21 just so they can drink. And as soon as someone does turn 21, they freqw~ntly get blitzed (who, me? No eomment) with the help of friends, relatives, neighbors, pets and whoever else wants to get in on the fun. But why 21? Well. a long time ago in a galaxy far, far away it was age 18, but due to alarm over drunken driving and under pressure of the federal government. most states raised the drinking age to 21, in hopes that by this age citizens would bP more responsible. 
I don't know how much this has helped. People stwm to drink if they want to, whether they an• 21 or not. 
Can this mystery be solved, or even eliminated, by a radical change whereby we would become like Europe, with no drinking age? Probably not, as our society likely could not handle the tidal wave of pre-teens drowning their algebra problems at the local bar. 
It's a horrible cyde from which there may be no escape, because our society places so rnueh emphasis on alcohol that the young, legally restricted but constantly exposed to media that say how "cool" it is to drink, cannot wait to break open some brew themselves. 
If we eradicated the drinking age, it would take some time to recover and erase the stigma of alcohol that so impresses people. 
So speaking of life's mysteries, why is Mkhelob Dry called dry? It looks wet to me... 

Ihe ObserYer-=­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471 News Today's Staff: Systems
Greg Lucas Molly Schwartz Sarah Voigt Dsn Towers 
Sports Accent Bob Mitchell 

Business Terri Walsh 
Liz Panzica Colleen Cronin Production Lauren Deluca Tricia Grohman 
Dave Klawiter Christina Ortiz Ad Design Day Staff
Mindy Breen VIewpoint Colleen Malloy
Shannon Roach Christine Walsh Erin Shirtzinger

Jeanne Naylor Janice O'Leary Shelia Jones Katie Foster Quinn Stepauhoode 

Photographer 
Pat Kusek 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer Thu~day, November16, 1989 

WEATHER 
60 70 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1989 Accu-Weather. Inc. 
Pressure 
®© 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Assoc1ated Press GraphicsNet 
WORLD 
The Beijing government has ordered offices to intercept and hand over to authorities the "reactionary propaganda" being sent by fax machines from Chinese dissidents abroad, an official report said. The report indicates that fax machines are being widely used to send into China accounts of the military crushing of the pro-democracy movement and of the subsequent crackdown on dissent that contradict government ac­eounts.The government has called the pro-democracy demonstrations a "counterrevolutionary rebellion" and says the army heroically restored order to the Chinese capital. 
With no other anesthetic than the mental energy of one the Soviet Union's most popular psychic healers, Lesya Yurshova of Moscow smiled for the TV camera while doctors operated on her hernia. Eight and a half months later, however, she has stoppPd smiling and started talking: she was in "monstrous pain, whieh tormented me from the first minute of the operation until the end." 
Pope John Paul II on WPdnesday pledged the church's support for AIDS victims from Vatican City, but he said people must change high-risk lifestyles and not resort to "morally illicit" means of prnv1mtion. "In its heart the church not only pronounc1~s a series of 'no's' to certain types of bPhavior. but espeeially pro­poses a lifestyle that is wholly signficant for the per­son," the pope said in the dosing address of a three­day Vatican conference on AIDS. The speech, dnlivered in Italian to more than 1,000 sciPntists, theologians, church officials and health-care workers, providnd his most extensive comments on what he called "the scourge of AIDS." 
NATIONAL 
Today, Wall Street felon Ivan Boesky is said to eat at Mister Donut and wear a bushy beard and long, unkempt hair like Howard Hughes. Two years ago he wore tailored suits and dined at the Harvard Club.Boesky, the focus of Wall Street's insider trading scandals, is on a three-week furlough from a minimum-security fed1~ral prison camp in Lompoc, Calif.The owner of a local eonv1mienee store said Wednesday that a man identified as Boesky in a front­page photo in the tabloid New York Post "looked like a homeless person" and ask1~d about tlw sugar and salt content of foods during a weekend shopping visit. 
INDIANA 

The videotapes of television news 
interviews with prosecutors in South Bend, Indiana won't be turned over to a murder defendant charged with slaying his ex-wife while on a prison furlough. Alan Matheney, 39, had asked a judge for the taped interviews from WNDU and WSBT television stations. lie sought the tapes as part of an effort to win dismissal of the murder charge on grounds of prosecutorial misconduct. St. Joseph Superior Court 
Judge William Whitman refused the subpoena Tuesday, sayfng the request for all related stories dating back to March 4 -the date of the killing-was too broad. 
An inmate was hospitalized with a broken leg after he and another inmate tried to escape from the Indiana State Heformatory in Pendleton authorities said Wednesday. Guards eaught Calvin Holmes and Oliver Adkins as they attempted to seale a cellhouse wall Monday about 9:15 p.m., said .Joyce Smith. a spokeswoman for the institution. llolmes broke his leg during the escape attempt and was being held at Wishard Hospital in Indianapolis, Ms. Smith said. 
OF INTEREST 
"Images of Women in the Media," an exploration of the way in which the print and vi­sual media influence society's perception of women, concludes the Saint Mary's College "Gathering Voices"series of presentations of di­versity within society, today at 12:15 p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall. 
Big Brothers and Big Sisters orientation meeting for all interested freshmen and sopho­mores is today from 7-7:30 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
JPW Sophomore Committee applica­tions: the deadline has been extended until Fri­day, November 17. They will be due in the Office of Student Activities by 5:00 p.m. Applications still available. Call Steve at 283-3131 with any questions. 
MARKET UPDATE 

Closings for November 15 1989 

Volume tn shares 
155.13 Million 
{}1.25 
S&P Composite 
340.54 02.55 
Dow Jones Industrials 
2,632.58 {}22.33 
Precious Metals Gold .f) $2.10 to $392.80 I oz. Silver {} 13.0¢ to $5.538 I oz. 
'Source: AP 
Yesterday's high: 62 
Yesterday's low: 55 
Nation's high: 94 
(Beeville, Texas) 
Nation's low: 9 
(Ely, Nevada) 
Forecast: 

Winter storm watch today 
and tonight. Cloudy, 
windy and cold with 
snow, possibly heavy at 
times. Blowing and drift­
ing snow likely. Near steady temperatures in the upper 20s. Lows tonight in the middle to upper teens. Cloudy Fri­day with snow diminish­ing to flurries. Highs from the middle to upper 20s. 
ALMANAC 
On November 16: 

e In 1864: Union Gen. William 
Sherman and his troops began 
their "March to the Sea" during 
the Civil War. e In 1933: The U. S. and the 
Soviet Union established diplo­matic relations. President Hoo­sevelt sent a telegram to Soviet leader Maxim Litvinov in which 
he expressed hope that u.s.­Soviet relations would "forever remain normal and friendly." e In 1979: Militant Iranians holding the U.S. Embassy in Tehran threatened harsh action against the hostages if the United States sent the deposed shah to any country except Iran. 

---~-------------------~--­
Thursday, November 16, 1989 The Observer page 3 

The Observer/ Andrew McCloskey An explosion sends an enormous fireball ripping through St. Michael's Laundry in the early morning hours Thursday. Story page 1. 

Uncork Your Potential! 


N D plans 150 year anniversary for '92 
By ANGELA MCDONALD 
News Writer 
Notre Dame will be 150 years old in 1992, and it is al­ready planning the Sesquicen­tennial party. 
Notre Dame began in 1842, a foundation year that it also shares withVillanova Univer­sity. There are only seven other surviving American Catholic colleges or universities that are older. 
A letter from University President Father Edward Mal­loy, sent to all faculty and staff members, encourages everyone to participate in the implemen­tation of programs to promote the celebration. 
Hichard Conklin, assistant vice president of University re­lations, said he is confident that this event will be a success and that he feels that currently 

1842-1992 
University of Notre Dame 
the main goal is "to get maxi­mum participation from every University constituency, includ­ing alumni and the local com­munity." 

The planning of all the events for the Sesquicentennial is still in the preliminary stages. The 
see PARTY/ page 5 

Smeal discusses the 'changed' role of modern women 
By SANDRA WIEGAND "We should not be talking is increasing as the result of will be passed by Congress, and practice fertility control for News Writer about the changing roles of the feminist movement, Smeal that "it's going to be something survival. Women will seek abor­women, we should talk about said, "I believe that what we're like the Berlin Wall. When it tions whether they are legal or 
Fmninist issues arn settled in the changed roles," said Smeal, trying to do is hold on to a pa­happens, people are going to illegal." she said. "If abortions human practice, but the politi­"Society could not function triarchal society when it has wonder why it didn't happen are illegal, they'll be unsafe; cal arena has not accepted without women in the work long since become out of date, before." we're trying to save women's tlwrn yet. said nllie Smeal, force." and that's what's causing the She added that the Berlin lives." foundPr and president of the The remedy to the problem, disturbances, not the femi­Wall and recent occurrences in She said that the present in­Fund for the Feminist Majority she said, is to rectify the nism." eastern Europe will probably dustrial era demands that and formPr president of the "underrepresentation of women "Traditional roles for people have a liberalizing effect in the families be smaller in order to National Organization for and male feminists" in that people can't fit into are United States, bringing about survive. Women. at a press conference Congress, in major corpora­causing crises not only in the an end to traditional, outmoded In response to Schafly's ad­before her lecture Wednesday tions, in church oflices, and in family, but in society itself." she values here. vice that women choose jobs 
night. other leadership positions. said. "The abortion issue is clearly that are compatible with rais­
Smeal said that since 44 Smeal rebutted the recent Smeal said that last weekend the hottest issue in the women's ing families, Smeal agreed that pPrrPnt of the work force is remarks of Phyllis Schafly, a an estimated one million people rights sector." said Smeal. both men and women should madP up of women, it is no task she said, "couldn't be participated in demonstrations She said that she was aware choose careers that "will en­
longpr a question of easier, because she's trying to for women's rights. of the recent rally for abortion hance their personal and family Pncouraging women to work, maintain that things haven't "If Phyllis Schafly thinks that rights in South Bend. adding lives." but rath1~r of getting legislation changed, that a certain role the ERA is dead, why is she that the issue has become She said that personal abili­passed which makes it plausible I for a woman I is the only role." talking about it?" she said. world-wide. ties and tastes should also play for more women to have In response to Schafly's Smeal said that she believes "The world-family wants to a part in career decisions, satisfying earners. assertion that the divorce rate the Equal Rights Amendment .. practice birth-control, it must though. 
German 
continued from page 1 
West Germany's ARD radio network. His party, once closely allied with the Communists, has been at the forefront of calls for change in East Germany. 
The new speaker of Parlia­ment, non-Communist Guenther Maleuda, on Tuesday urged a constitutional change to allow a true multiparty government. 
The East German constitution specifies that constitutional changes must be approved a majority of the lawmakers in 
the 500-member Parliament, or People's Chamber. 
West German Economics Minister Helmut Haussmann on Tuesday announced the offer of massive economic aid, which he likened to the U.S. Marshall Plan that helped rebuild West­ern Europe after the Nazi de­feat in World War II. 





Ernest & Julio Gallo Winery 
Invites any students interested in our 
SALES MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 

To attend a career and industry presentation 
DATE:  Thursday November 16, 1989  
TIME:  7:00 pm  
PLACE:  Notre Dame Room in Lafortune  

E & J Gallo Winery Management Representatives will present a brief review of the wine industry and discuss career opportunities in this dynamic growth industry. 
Resumes are encouraged Questions are welcomed Refreshments will be served 





When the Great 
American Dream 

isn't Great Enough 
Have you considered? 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR 
A one-year program located at Moreau Seminary at Notre Dame for college graduates who are seriously interested in exploring a vocation as a Holy Cross priest or brother. 
For i•formation: 
Fr. John Conley, CSC Vocation Director 
Box 541 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
ADWORKS

239·6385 



page 4 The Observer Thursday, November 16, 1989 
SMC student gov't discusses committee 
By OLIVIA PORTER "Women in the Media," a pro­News Writer gram sponsored by the oflice of Minority, International. and 
The resolution that recog­Non-Traditional Student Af­nized the Notre Dame Student fairs. The program, to be lwld Senate's support of a Notre today at noon in the Stapleton Dame/Saint Mary's relations Loung(~. will indude lectures by committee and outlined the Janke DowelL Midwlll' PPtit, committee's objectives was pre­and othnrs. sented at tlw Saint Mary's joint M.J. Grant reminded studl'nt studnnt governnwnt meeting on government of important dati's Wednesday night by Maggie concerning "Neighboring Tal­Belin, Saint Mary's reprnsnnta­Pnts," tho Notrl' Damn/Saint tive to the Senate. Mary's talent show. Tlw hour 
"The committee intends to long informational llll'l'tings analyze the present state of tlw will bn lwld on l>ecl'mlwr 5 at relations betwenn thn two cam­(,:30 p.m. at Saint Mary's and puses, to syntlwsizP coiHTntP on Dnrl'mlwr (, at h p.m. at plans of action for the bPttnr­NotrP l>anw. For morl' infor­ment of these relations, and to mation. contact M..J. Grant at evaluate tlw sucn~ss and impart Saint Mary's or Char Slwridan of thnse programs," said Belin. at Notre Damn. 
In other busi1wss. Lisa CatP­l>aniPIIn Calurrhia said that naeei. Saint Mary's studPnt Club Tuesday will presl'nt MikP
The Observer/ Andrew McCloskey 

body president, encouraged the Hayburn in Novnm her 21 from A fireman perched on top of his firetruck battles the fire in St. Michael's Laundry. Story page 1. 
student government to support 9 to 11 p.m. 
Lebanese group claims to have kidnapped an American 
BEIHUT. LPbanon (;\I') -A Deborah Fahrend, 54, of San poorly typed statement. which department had no information matir soun·ps in Nicosia said pnwiously unknown group said Francisco. and described her as gave no details and did not say on Ms. Fahrnnd and "wn'rn further dPtails about tlw visa Wndnesday it had kidnapped an a publisher-journalist. The two when the abduction occurred. trying to find out if shn had a applirations would bP availahlP Amnriean woman and two nat­othnrs wen~ identified as The kidnapping could not be waiver on her passport." Thursday morning. uraliznd W1~st c;ermans -a Mounir Shamsnddin Sami, 39, confirmed. Americans an• prohibitPd ;\U.S. Embassy spokt~snum in man born in LPbanon and his 7-born in Lebanon, and his son, .Joan Falk, an employee of the from traveling to Lebanon Cyprus said lw had no informa­ynar-old SOIL Danjel, born in Berlin. post office at San Geronimo, a without such a waiver of the tion on the kidnappings. Tlw 
The claim was made in a "The Organization of Just Marin County town about 20 rules. i\mPrican Embassy in BPirut typewritten statement, in Ara­Hevenge announces its respon­miles north of San Francisco, The documents showed oJw­has bnen closed since Sept. 22. bic, on bPhalf of a group calling sibility for kidnapping the West said Deborah Fahrend had a entry visas issued for Ms. ThP docunwnts also slwwPd itself The Organization of Just German Mounir Sami (born in box there for many years, but Fahrend and the two GPrmans entry stamps by the LPbanPSP Hevengn. The statement was Lebanon) and his son Danjel left town in 1987. by Consul Midwhme Baz at the security dnpartnwnt at thP delivered to a Western news Sami and American publisher-.. "I only recall that I was told Lebanese Embassy in Nicosia, Christian port of .JouniPI1 north agency along with photocopies journalist Deborah Fahrend in she went to Europe," she said. Cyprus, on Nov. 1. of Beirut. dated Nov. 3, an indi­of the passports and visas of Beirut for their activities in Le­A State Department oflicial in Attempts to reach Ms. Baz on cation thn three trawled from the thmn people. banon," it said. Washington, speaking on con­Wednesday night were unsuc­Cyprus to Lebanon togntlwr by
It identified the American as No demands were made in the dition of anonymity, said the cessful. Other Lebanese diplo-s(m. 




Women 
continued from page 1 

ment, really had very little to do with us ... if you haven't no­ticed, we !women today! are not in power." 
Smeal went on to say that in a world that is on a "sped-up track," with fast-paced human events and technological break­throughs, the debate on fair­ness and equality must be ended. and "we must face the future." 
Smeal discussed how clothing was symbolic of attitudes. Men are still wearing the same type of clothing of past generations, n~necting their attitude to hold on to the past, while women's clothing has radically changed. 
She cited the example of a black-tie dinner. where women could wear just about anything. On her choice of apparel for the lecture, a skirt-suit, she said, "this is Notre Dame. I decided I might as well dress conserva­tive." 
Despite the continual changes, Smeal said that women were under-represented in legislatures. A dispropor­tionate number of decision­makers in government are wealthy men, who are out of touch with the views of middle­class women, said Smeal. 
While women want more money for social human ser­vices, the male-dominated gov­ernment does not. This is the cause of the gender gap. ac­cording to Smeal. 
Smeal also discussed the de­valuation of traditional women's jobs, such as nursing and teaching, which "economically deprives everyone in society." Sex discrimination incurs a heavy price tag, said Smeal. She advocates the idea of comparable worth, which uses objective criteria to form a pay scale for various jobs. This would help bring about equity and fairness in the economy, said Smeal. 
Smeal mentioned reproductive rights, bringing up rhe problems of overpopulation, starvation, and pollution to il­lustrate that a modern techno­logical solution is advanced birth and fertility control. Said Smeal, "We cannot dictate the breakthroughs of science based on theology." 



The Missing Link 
Ifyou've achieved an outstanding academic record that has placed you in the top quarter of your class and you'd like to learn more about the rewards ofworking in management con­sulting before pursuing an advanced degree, we've got a link between the two-don't miss it: 
Research Associate Reception 
Upper Lounge, University Club 
Thursday, November 16, 1989 
6:00-8:00 p.m. Let us, as one ofthe nation's largest management consulting and accounting firms, show you what you're missing, on November 16th. Please don't forget to bring your resume. If you cannot attend, please forward your resume to: Director ofResearch, Deloitte & Touche Management Consulting Group, ll1 East Wacker Drive, Chicago, IL60601. De/oilte & Touche will be interviewing on campus on January 29, 1990. Equal Opportunity Employer M/F. 
Deloitte 
&Touche 
Crealing imoginalive solutions. 



Thursday, November 16, 1989 The Observer pageS 

San Francisco Bay Bridge to reopen Sat. 
SAN PHANCISCO (AP)-The San Praneisco-Oakland Bay Bridge reopens Saturday, restoring the key link between two cities battered by a major earthquake that forced harried commuters onto trains, ferries and buses. 
State Department of Trans­portation officials had hoped to open the bridge by Friday, ex­actly one month after a 50-foot section of the span's upper roadway dropped onto the lower during the Oct. 17 quake, claiming one life. 
They almost made it. But two days of foggy nights created enough moisture to interrupt stripe painting on the 53-year­old bridge, which carried more than 260,000 vehicles every working day prior to the quake. 
Vehicle traflic will start mov­ing a(Toss the 8.5-milc span as soon as possible after midnight Friday, according to Burch Bachtold. regional director for the state Dr,partmr,nt of Trans­portation (Caltrans). 
llikers will get a chancr, to try the bridge Pvcn earlier -at $5 each. Thousands are Pxpected to take part Thursday, with proceeds going to pay for buses to take tlwm to the bridge. Anything left over will go to quake relief. 
Although many are expncted to return to their autos, there are some who will continue to use mass transit. 
Ben Scauzzo of Pleasant Hill, about 30 miles east of San Francisco, switched to BART after years of using his ear. 
"But no more," he said on Wednesday. "Now I'm going to 

Comp. 
continued from page 1 
usc our funds to maintain, sup­port and upgrade what we have already gotten started." 
Spicer acknowledged that a support staff of strong employ­ees is vital to the success of the campaign to upgrade campus computing. 
Carolyn Goodnight, a consul-continue (riding the train.) My biggest problem is figuring out the tickets." 

But Paul Smith, a federal em­ployee, is a commuter who thinks BART is too limiting. 
"BAHT only goes to certain places. Time is important to me. I think with my car I can increase my work production time two or three times." 
Caltrans officials announced last week they hoped to reopen the bridge on Nov. 17, one month after the 15-second quake struck Northern Califor­nia at 5:04p.m., killing 66 peo­ple and causing $7 billion in damage. The earthquake also interrupted the World Series between the San Francisco Giants and the Oakland Athlet­ics, an event symbolized by the 
bridge  on  T-shirts  and  other  
memorabilia.  
The  department  originally  

predicted the span would re­open around Thanksgiving. Denny McLeod, president of Higging International of Alameda, one of the repair con­tractors, said planning alone for such a job usually takes a month. 
"Here, we had to do it right on the spot," he said. "You have to make a lot of judgment calls fast and every one of them has to be right." 
The first step was to make sure the damaged decks didn't fall through to the bay. Work­ing 12-hour shifts, crews cut the damaged upper deck into two pieces, then used a crane to lower them to a barge below. 
tant and analyst in the lies­burgh Library computing clus­ter. heads the training and re­cruiting program for these new centers. The Office of University Computing currently employs 105 students as computer lab consultants and managers. 
Although many student lab consultants have had some pre­vious computer experience, Goodnight said they do most of their training on the "We 

German writer speaks on Catholic authors 

By CRISTINA ORTIZ News Staff 
Hienz Kuehn, a native of Ber­lin and well-know German writer, spoke about five German Catholic writers who lived during the time of World War II in a lecture Wednesday night. 
Kuehn shared the' writers' personal experiences about how the war influenced their works. Kuehn said that they were "writers who nourished and strengthened our faith during the darkest moments [of Nazi rule]." 
The first writer he mentioned was Elisabeth Langgesser, fa­mous for her book, "The 
try to get students who aren't afraid to say 'I don't know ­let me look it up," said Good­night. 
Goodnight said that about 90% of the students who use the computers in the four clus­ters write papers with the word processing functions. Other students do spread sheets or use the DOS computers for more complex problems. 
The LaFortune computing cluster. with 50 Macintoshes, and the Hesburgh Library cen­ter, with 39 Macintoshes and 29 DOS machines, get the heav­iest usage, stated Goodnight. 
Hienz Kuehn 

Quest." One general theme run­ning through all of her works was of a battle between God and Satan. 
Kuehn cited specific exam­ples such as good versus evil, 
"Betwe·en 1,200 and 1,300 different people use these two centers per week," said Good­night. The clusters in O'Shaughnessy, with only 33 Macintoshes, and in the archi­tecture building, with 16 DOS machines, see considerably less student traffic. 
Due to the increased demand for computers between midterms and final exams, sign-up sheets are used to re­serve terminals. "We don't set time limits on computer usage and it seems to have worked out so far," commented Good­night. 
dreams versus reality, and will versus temptation. "The battle never ends," said Kuehn. 
Kuehn went on to discuss Gertud Von Le Fort whose work included "Hymns to Ger­many". "Her style is strongly influenced by Nature and among her works is the theme of the mystery of the Church," Kuehn said. 
Kuehn discussed three other significant German Catholic writers which included Reinhold Schneider, Walter Jens, and Werner Berjen Gorren. Gorren is best known for his novel "In Heaven as in Earth". 
Kuehn's "challenge to under­stand the crucifixion" was the conclusion to his lecture. 
Arsene Balihuta, a graduate student and lab manager, be­lieves that the University could use more computing centers. Balihuta said, "When supply is plentiful it also increases de­mand. As more people come to learn computers, the more they will demand more of them." 
A cluster for the future De­Bartolo Classroom Building is planned, according to Assistant Director of Public Relations Cynthia Scott. Goodnight said that plans are also underway for a business computing clus­ter in Hayes-Healy Center to open in August 1990. 
promotional devices for the 


r-------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer Thursday, November 16, 1989 
-~­


Correction

Salvadorian troops drive rebels back Wed. 
The information reportedSAN SAI.VADOH, El Salvador bishop of San Salvador, sec­confirm, but radio station cor­here, so be it," said a smiling, in the Nov. 7 edition of The(APl -The battle of San Sal­onded a Hed Cross call for a respondents -prohibited from sparsely bearded rebel in soccer Observer regarding th1~ Uni­vador tilted in the government's truce between the rightist gov­broadcasting news by a gov­spikes sighting down the barrel versity Libraries Jackoboice
favor Wednesday as troops ernment of President Alfredo ernment-declared state of siege of his Soviet-designed AK-47 Family Collection in Journal­drove guerrillas from working­Cristiani and the leftist -told The Associated Press by assault rifle at a building in ism was incorrect. Tim Jack­
class neighborhoods in fierce Farabundo Marti National Lib­telephone that fighting contin­Zacamil. oboice Family Collf~etion in
combat while civilians fled or eration Front to allow the ued in and around the provin­In the working-class neigh­Journalism is endowed bycowered in their homes. evacuation of wounded. cial capitals of San Miguel, borhoods north and cast of this the family of Georgn A.
The rebels held positions in At a news conference, he also Santa Ana and Zacatecoluca. capital where fighting has been Jackoboiee Sr., and estab­several neighborhoods in and demanded both sides silence In the capital, thousands of the heaviest, residents began lished in his memory. 
around the capital, but the 4-their weapons and return to civilians fled their homes, an­burning partially decomposed 
day-old offensive was stalled by fledgling pnace talks broken off guished and terrified by bomb­bodies in the streets. the armed forces' air power earlier this month. ing, strafing and gunfights in 
and numerical superiority com­Casualty figures from the the streets and alleys. Others binnd with lack of popular sup­four days of fighting were held fast, saying they would 
DART courses closed on Nov. 15
port for the guerrillas. inexact, but surveys of hospi­guard their belongings. "If they stay here, we (the tals and a tally based on sev­In the northern neighborhood Editor's Note: The Obser11er published only those courses 
civilians) are the ones who end eral sources indicated more of Zacamil, one of the most en­which closed thee day previous to publication. This is not a up badly," said Julio Cesar than 500 people -civilians, trenched guerrilla positions on complete list ofclosed courses. Martinez, a IS-year-old student guerrillas and soldiers -have Tuesday, the rebels were forced in the eastern suburb of Soya­been killed and more than from advance posts and had 0005 0402 1264 2053 3163 5140 5311 0008 0464 1270 2116 3219 5141 5313
pango. I le said his family had 1,000 wounded. fortified themselves in several 
0010 0465 1275 2117 3246 5142 5314
been without food for two days In the provinces, conflicting six-story low-income apartment 
0015 0470 1276 2118 3247 5143 5324 and the rebels should rntreat. claims by government and complexes. 0021 0471 1284 2222 3249 5144 5326 Arturo Hivera Damas, arch-guerrillas were impossible to "No retreat. If we have to die 0023 0472 1293 2223 3250 5145 5328 0024 0476 1296 2225 3253 5146 5337 0025 0518 1297 2226 3256 5148 5339 0027 0572 1358 2252 3257 5149 5340 
SECURITY BEAT 

0028 0619 1360 2367 3261 5157 5341 0029 0728 1373 2370 3263 5158 5343 0030 0741 1378 2375 3269 5160 5351 0031 0749 1379 2377 3270 5161 5375The defendant had been travelling 45 called to the scene of a two vehicle acci­

MONDAY, NOV. 13 

0032 0752 1384 2488 3273 5162 5405 
mph in a 25 mph zone. dent on Juniper Road. No injuries were5:45 p.m. A resident of Grace Hall re­
0037 0766 1386 2492 3274 5163 5407 ported that his car had been broken into 
10:23 p.m. A South Bend resident was reported and damages were minor. 
0051 0805 1389 2496 3304 5165 5410 
0054 0838 1395 2553 5008 5168 5411 5171 
cited by Notre Dame Police for No Op­9:35 p.m. Notre Dame Police cited aand his radar detector stolen from the 0055 0839 1397 2554 5009 5427erators License when Required. The Colorado resident for speeding. The de­vehicle. The theft occurred while the car 
0056 0891 1480 2568 5010 5172 5474 defendant had been driving on Juniper fendant had been travelling 40 mph in awas parked in the B·16 lot sometime be· 
5173 5475 posted 25 mph zone on Juniper Road. 
0057 0926 1481 2579 5011 5176 5477tween 5:00 and 10:30 p.m. on 11/10. Road. 
0083 0985 1500 2580 5014 
0091 0989 1507 2581 5015 5219 5480 0100 0990 1508 2585 5017 5226 5482 10:27 p.m. A resident of South BendDamages are estimated at $180.00. 
was cited by Notre Dame Police for8:00 p.m. Notre Dame Security re­
5235 ceived numerous reports of men selling 
0129 0999 1512 2589 5035 5483 speeding. The defendant had been 
0131 1072 1574 2590 5036 5253 5484 perfume in Mod Quad halls. Security 
travelling 45 mph in a 25 mph zone on The crime of the week is the theft of 0144 1077 1581 2604 5038 5255 5485 0156 1083 1587 2668 5039 5282 5487
Juniper Road. athletic practice clothing taken from the 0166 1085 1619 2669 5040 5284 5488stopped the culprits and escorted them 
Joyce A.C.C. Security reports that be­
off campus. 

0170 1086 1621 2790 5045 5298 5489 9:31 p.m. A Carroll Hall resident re­TUESDAY, NOV. 14 tween 12 p.m. and 3 p.m. on Oct. 21, un­
0229 1087 1624 2797 5048 5299 5490 ported the theft of his bicycle from the 10:23 a.m. An off campus student re­known persons took 9 reversible jerseys, 
0233 1089 1686 2799 5051 5301 5491 0380 1090 1822 2801 5055 5302 5492
ported his book bag and contents were 9 pairs of grey shorts and nine blue 0385 1100 1824 2810 5100 5303 5499bike rack outside Carroll Hall. The theft 
occurred sometime between 11/9 and stolen from the lobby of the bookstore. shirts. This clothing. property of the 
0386 1248 1826 3134 5101 5304 5501 11110. His loss is estimated to be 
His loss is estimated to be $55.00. women's basketball team, was valued at 
0389 1249 1834 3144 5104 5305 5502 $150.00. 
5:00 p.m. A resident of Moreau re­$300. Crime stoppers want to know who 
0397 1252 1896 3145 5105 5306 5503 ported the theft of his bicycle from a took these items and will pay a cash re­
0398 1254 1969 3146 5106 5307 5505 0399 1257 1972 3148 5110 5308 554910:10 p.m. Notre Dame Police cited a hallway in Moreau. The theft occurred ward for information about this or any 
0401 1260 2016 3161 5112 5309 5556 South Bend man for Exceeding the on 11/4. His loss is estimated at $50.00. crime at Notre Dame. Call 288-STOP. 
Posted Speed Limit on Juniper Road. 7:25 p.m. Notre Dame Police were You won't be asked your name. e-





Faculty 
continued from page 1 
Hast German government had to implement reforms if it wanted to improve its economy and keep its people in the eoun­try. lie indicated that more re­forms would have to follow in order to appease the masses of East Germans, many of whom demand a more democratic government. "There are fears on both sides," said Wegs regarding 

both NATO's and the Warsaw Paet's reaction to the possibil­ity of the re-unification of the two Germanies. There seems to be a "melting away" of divi­sions between the two nations, and Wegs feels that changes are occurring fast enough to create anxieties in the interna­tional alliance organizations. Stolz feels that a re-unifica­tion of Germany is improbable since West Germany would practically be "throwing away" its coalition with the Western European community. Kom­
mers also doubted the possibil­ity of re-unification because the Soviet Union doesn't desire it. Kommers dismissed the idea that the improved relations be­tween East and West Germany signal the forthcoming end of the "nation-state" as a political unit. There is no indication that Europe will unite and dissolve all political borders. Wegs felt that it would be premature to make such a conclusion. The current situation in East Germany does significant dam­age to communism as a sue­

cessl'ul political ideology, ac­cording to the professors. "It's on the run," said Wegs. "It's !communism] no longer seen as a solution to a coun­try's problems." Attempts to save it, according to Wegs, ul­timately won't work. The trend toward reform in East Germany will improve re­lations between the United States and the Soviet Union, said Wegs.) The Soviets have proclaimed a policy of "non-interference" regarding its satellite nations. 
and the fact that they hav1~ al­lowed n~forms in East Ger­many show the Unitnd Statns that . tlwy hav1~ put tlwir "rhetoric into practice." Kommers believes that futun• changes within thn East Ger­man political regime will in­clude a move toward democ­racy "within the framework of the government." The commu­nist part will form a coalition government in which other po­litical parties will play a bigger role. This will lead to even more reforms. 



CAMPUS VIEW APAR'rMEN'rS 
HAPPY ,.HANKSGIVIIG 
Now taking applications 
Furnished Apartments Indoor pool ~FOR Exercise Equipment and Jacuzzi Spa 
INFORMATION CALL 272-1441 
~~----_---··_----_-·-----_-----______ 





Business
Thursday, November 16, 1989 

page 7 
Capital gains battle closed until next year 
WASlllNGTON (APJ-Hcpub­lican efforts to cut capital­gains taxes this year ended Wednesday when the Senate re­fused for a second time to choke off a Democratic fili­buster against thn proposal. 
A 51-47 vote in favor of limit­ing debate was nine votes short or the 60 required to end the filibuster. The vote was the same as on Tuesday, with the same six Dmnocrats joining all 45 Hnpublicans in supporting the limitation on debate. 
"One day we will have 60 votes to pass the capital-gains tax," said Sen. Bob Packwood, H-Orn., the chif)f advocate of the reduction, which President Bush promised in last year's campaign and which had been his top domestic priority in Congress this year. 

Leaders of both parties agreed that the battle will be renewed early next year. Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, D-Texas, chair­man of the Senate Finance Committee, said any proposed cut would be considered as part of a broad plan for increasing savings and investments. 
The House, with the help of one in four Democrats, passed a capital-gains tax cut in September. 
Capital gains, which are prof­its from the sale of invest­ments, are taxed at the same rates that apply to income. 
Packwood's plan would ex­clude a portion of capital gains from tax, with a larger exclu­sion allowed for longer-held property. For example, 5 per­cent of the profits from the sale of assets owned more than one year would be excluded; the ex­clusion would increase gradu­ally to a maximum of 35 per­cent for property owned more than seven years. 
"If the capital-gains tax is lowered ... , some people will un­dertake transactions they would not otherwise under­take," Packwood said. In turn, "you will raise money (for the government) by lowering the capital-gains tax rate and we can use that money for other programs." 

Bentsen and Majority Leader George J. Mitchell, D-Maine, criticized the proposed cut as a windfall for the rich that would do little for the economy while worsening the budget deficit. 
"lt is wrong, just wrong, that the president puts a higher pri­ority on cutting capital-gains taxes than on reducing the fed­eral budget deficit," Mitchell said. 
The Packwood plan includes an amendment by Sen. Bill Roth, R-Del., expanding Indi­vidual Retirement Accounts. A worker could contribute up to $2,000 a year to an IRA and get no immediate tax benefit. How­ever, interest that accumulates in the account would be tax­free forever. 
The six Democrats who sided with Republicans on the vote Wednesday are Sens. Bennett Johnston of Louisiana, Howell Heflin and Richard Shelby of Alabama, Dennis DeConcini of Arizona, David Boren of Okla­homa and Joe Lieberman of Connecticut. 
Sens. Claiborne Pell, D-R.l., and Spark Matsunaga, D­Hawaii, did not vote. Both op­pose the capital-gains tax cut. 
Private pension funds healthy, public need not panic 
WASHINGTON (APJ­The Labor Department on Wednesday sought to quell fears about private pension fund fraud. telling Congress the system has "never been health­ier." but a House panel chair­man said there is reason for concern. 
David George Ball, an assis­tant labor secretary, appeared before the !louse retirement in­rome subcommittee to dispute warnings from his depart­ment's own inspector general's office about the potential for fraud. 
At the same hearing, the act­ing inspector general, Haymond Maria. said lax auditing and enforcement have created a "window of opportunity" for unscrupulous managers to pil­fer Americans' pensions. 
Rep. Bill Hughes, D-N.J., chairman of the Subcommittee on Retirement Income and Em­ployment. said the public need not panic but cautioned: "Ignoring a situation where such large sums of money are subjected to few effective out­side investigations, combined with the minor penalties which are often imposed for those who have misused funds, seems to me to be asking for trouble." 

The private pension system holds $2 trillion in assets and covers 76 million Americans. Concern about the plans' well­being has been heightened by discovery of several multimil­lion-dollar pension skimming schemes and financial problems in the government's pension in­surance program, which is $1.5 billion in the red. 
Following the hearing, Hughes said his is asking the General Accounting Office, the congressional investigator, to look into the Labor Depart­ment's handling of investiga­tions. 
Ball, assistant labor secre­tary for pension and welfare benefits, said that despite those problems "the pension system, by any objective measure, has never been healthier." 
In an earlier interview, Hughes expressed skepticism about such assurances. "I heard the same sectors saying the savings and loan situation wasn't serious five years ago," he said. 
Maria, an outspoken former FBI agent, stayed away from dramatic comparisons in his testimony Wednesday, and said "our goal is not to unnecessar­ily frighten people, but to stim­ulate concern where such con­cern is needed, and to avoid po­tential future crisis." 
He said inadequate regula­tions and reliance on civil rather than criminal remedies have "created a window of op­portunity for those who would embezzle and steal from plan participants." 

Maria also used the forum to 
air inhouse fighting in the La­
bor Department which led to a 
Justice Department opinion in 
March barring his office from 
directly investigating private 
pension plans. That job is han­
dled by the department's Pen­
sion Benefits Welfare Adminis­
tration, which has 300 inspec­
tors to police the nation's 
870,000 private pension pro­
grams. 
Over the past five years, more 
than 25 percent of the plans 
audited by the agency had vio­
lations of the 197 4 Employee 
Retirement Income Security 
Act, known as ERISA. But the 
PWBA on a yearly average in­
vestigates less than 1 percent 
of the nation's pension plans. 
The inspector general's office 
wants the law changed to re­..quire private accountants who audit pension programs to re­port any violations to the Labor 
Department. It also says the Labor Department should pur­sue more criminal cases against violators, rather than relying largely on civil suits. 
Ball responded that the de­partment's enforcement policy is designed to deliver "the biggest bang for the buck and affecting the most participants possible." 
He said the Labor Depart­ment concentrates on plans covering more than 100 em­ployees and targets its investi­gations "on plans which we be­lieve have a high chance of vio­lating the law." 
Maria's office, in a report re­leased to the House subcommit­tee, said billions of dollars in private pension money is not being fully audited because the money was invested in such in­stitutions as savings and loans. The assumption was that money in federal institutions was subject to other examina­tions. 
That smile came easy because his Christmas came early. Apple Computer® and the Notre Dame Computer Store would like to congr.at .ulate: 

John Dunne 
on wi11ning a Macintosh Plus® in the Back-To-School giveaway. Stop by the Computer Store and find out what Christmas deals on a Macintosh you can find. 
Notre Dame Computer Store 1st Floor, Computing Center/Math Building Phone: 239-7477 
• 
Hours: Mon.-Fri. 9:00-5:00 
© 1989 Apple Computer 
e 

------~------------------~--~-----­






Viewpoint 
Thursday, November 16, 1989 
a e 8 

The;_-Obsenrer-
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Regts Coccta  Rtch Iannelli  
Exec. News Editor  Matthew Gallagher  Advertising Manager  Molly Killen  
Viewpoint Editor  Dave Bruner  Ad Design Manager  Shannon Roach  
Sports Editor  Theresa Kelly  Production Manager..  ...Alison Cocks  
Accent Editor  .John Blast  Systems Mgr  .. Bernard Brenninkmeyer  
Photo Editor  Enc Batley  OTS Director  Angela Bellanca  
Saint Mary's Editor  Chnsttne Gill  Controller  .. Anne Lindner  

The Observer ts the tndependent newspaper publtshed by the students of the Untversi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the admtnistratton of either institution The news is reported as accurately and ob­Jectively as posstble. Unsigned editorials represent the opimon of the maJority of the lollow1ng: Ed1tor-1n-Chtef. Managing Editor. Executtve News Edtlor, Viewpotnt Editor. Sports Editor. Accent Edttor. Photo Editor. Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters, and the lnstde Column present the vtews ot thetr authors Column space IS available to all members ot the community and the tree expresston of varytng optmons on campus, through letters. IS encouraged 

U.S. 'holds the cards' in Arab-Israeli conflict 
was not just an ambition but a and void," the charter has yet with Anwar Sadat's conclusion conflicts in the Middle East. necessity in order to prevent to be officially revoked and that, "The United States holds especially the one in which the

By Michael Carrigan 

such a tragedy from ever oc­calls for the destruction of Is­ninety-nine percent of the cards 
U.S. is intimately involved, the 
curring again. The struggle for rael and for it to be replaced by in the Middle East." Much of Arab-Israeli conflict. 
As any visitor can tell you, survival has led the Israelis to a Palestinian state in all of these cards come from the over A great way to learn more one of the ancient names for five major wars, usually Palestine. Further, many Pales­$5 billion in aid we give to the about this issue is to attend Jerusalem, "the City of Peace," against far greater numbers, tinians are quick to equate region. For example, in the fis­some of the many events of is a terrible misnomer. and usually with amazing suc­Zionism with racism and even cal year 1987 the United States tMiddle East Week, a part of 
Jerusalem today is the center of cess. Naziism. A common graffiti spend $491 per capita (U.S. the World Awareness series the oldest and most volatile The Palestinians, manipulated sign on the West Bank is a Star population) to help low income sponsored by Student Govern­conflicts in the world. It is a by the Israelis and Arab states of David, and equal sign, and a Americans while aid to Israel in ment. It is vitally importantcity whose complexity is during the larger Arab-Israeli swastika. 1987 was $686 per capita that tomorrow's leaders of the outweighed only by its impor­conflict, see the establishment In fact, the Palestinians often (Israeli population). United States understand this 
tance to the world's three great of their own nation as vital to draw parallels to their suffer­With the recent warming of region so that hopefully, our monotheistic religions and the their own identity and prosper­ing today to that of the Jews in Soviet-American relations, one generation can do more than two people locked in a daily ity. I will never forget visiting a Europe before World War II. of the areas in the world that is just pray for the peace of struggle for its control, the Is­Palestinian orphanage in Beth­The millions of Palestinians liv­likely to remain a potential for Jerusalem. raelis and the Palestinians. lehem and seeing the pictures ing outside their homeland are war is in the Middle East. Be­Jerusalem's importance made it six-year-old children drew of referred to as those in the cause of the importance and Michael Carrigan is a senior the center of the universe in the their dream homes. They were "diaspora." The crowded, dirty volatility of the situation there government and 1/esburgh Pro­middle ages and it n~mains the all shapes, sizes and colors, but conditions of the refugee camps and the United States vital in­
gram major. 1/e was a student 
center of much of the world's they had one thing in common: in Israel and elsewhere, are volvement it is essential that in Notre Dame's Jerusalem eontroversy today. they all were topped with the sometimes named "ghettos" everyone in the United States program during the spring
Life in Jerusalem is above all Palestinian national flag. after the conditions endured by has an understanding of the 1989 semester. eomplex. In an effort to avoid Unfortunately, many of those the Jews in Europe during the disturbance otw learns what on both sides see these nation­1930s and 1940s. Finally, some buses may be stoned, when alities as mutually exclusive. In Palestinians have taken to call­LETTERS strikes occur and when soldiers an effort to question the valid­ing their national movement the don't want pictures taken. Even ity of one another's national most ironic of names: Zionism. 

Quarter Mile fund-raisers 
a hello between two strangers movements, they claim the Despite all that the Palestini­may be a political statement. other's nationality is artificial. ans and the Israelis have in The use of Arabic to a Jewish Thus Golda Meir, one of ls­common they continue to re­

'embarrassed' students 
Israeli or llebrew to a Pales­rard's founders and later Prime gard one another not as fellow tinian, or English to either for Minister, said in 1969, "It was sufferers. but deadly enemies. Dear Editor: was given. Is this the propPr that matter. could cause a not as through there was a The extremists on both sides We are writing to express our way to raise mmwy for tlw great deal animosity if not Palestine people in Palestine have fueled the eyele of hate concern about the actions of United Way? eonfliet. considering itself a Palestinian and war. This is undoubtedly the Hall President's Council as Our biggest concern arose 
Tlw hostility between the Is­people and we came and threw the saddest thing they have in they eonducted their United when the council optnd to sing raelis and the Palestinians is them out and took their country common, their battles with one Way Quarter Mile fund-raising "The Star Spangled Banner" ironic becausP despite all that away from them. They did not another. drive. Obviously this is a worthy while the HOTC Veteran's Day divides the two people, they exist." She spoke for many event, but is it right to embar­ceremony was in progress. 
have much in common. Both Israelis who believe that the These two peoples are locked rass the students of Notre Some may not agree with HOH: 
peoples have struggled to Palestinians should emigrate to in a fatal struggle that has Dame and the flag of this great at Notre Dame, but the veter­establish a state for their na­other Arab states. The Israeli most recently erupted into the nation in order to raise money? ans of this nation deserve re­tion in a strip of land no wider government has banned the "intifada." Yet, if there is one As we walked on the quad, we spect-not disrespect. More­than 50 miles between the Jor­Palestinian flag and it is even thing that both sides of the continually experienced mem­over, they had respect for peo­dan River and the Mediter­illegal for Palestinians in the fight agree on, it is the impor­bers of the council singling ple who gave a quarter, but not ranean Sea; and it is this occupied territories to wear the tance of the role of the United people out as they walked to those who gave their lives. struggle that is the source of Palestinian colors of black, red, States in the Israeli-Palestinian class. With the use of a mega­Next year, please reconsider all their eonflict and much of grnen and white. conflict and in the entire Middle phone, the 'M.C.' asked individ­the used-car salesman taetics what they have in common. Conversely, the Palestinians East. The U.S. is in the unique uals for contributions, and if which were illustrated at this 
The two peoples have a long have questioned the right of a position to push for peace and they did not have money to do­year's fund drive. history of suffering and link Jewish state to exist. Yasir use its influence to get both nate, ridiculing began. We also tlwir survival to the establish­Arafat stated in the past that sides to work for the ever elu­heard of a varsity basketball Charlie James ment of their own nation. For Jews are just a religious group, sive solution in the Middle East: player, easily identifiable to Michael Palmer the Jews aftH the holocaust. not a nation. Despite Arafat a compromise. Few Israelis or most students and alumni, who Pangborn //all 
the existence of a Jewish state calling the P.L.O. charter "null Palestinians would disagree was heekled until a donation Nov. 10. 1989 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
MARK, I THINK I  KNOW  8IJT PHIL. &XPLAINW 70 Me  
HOW YCXJ reeL., AN[} 8Uit.Ve  HOWHe /W[} YOUR MOTHeR.  I KNOW  OAI/'5 RJGHT.  
M8, lr I 7H(X(iHT I t<l45 8{3/NG A H0Me-WR£0CER, I'l? HAVe Nr.JTH!NG 70 (;() MTH >WR FJ4TH&R.  HAV8 EJta.l eMOTIONAUY 8$7/?ANGW FOR SOMe TIMe. I Mt'AJV, 7He MARRIAGe IS AU 8UT OVeR, RiGHT~  Y(}(JUUJANT WBAO<Me (JP7HE3R£, SON.  fT JUSTHA9J'T EJeeN 7'1-ie 54Me 9NCeHeGOT OUTOFPRiSON.  
I  I  \  

'Men talk of 'finding God,' but no wonder it is difficult; He is hidden in that darkest hiding place, your heart. You yourself are a part of him.' 
Christopher Morley 
--------~~------<-­


Viewpoint

Thursday, November 16, 1989 
page 9 
Even the ambitious cannot have it both ways 

We seem to think we can have 
not prepared to bear this duty,
Maeve O'Donovan 

it all. but we cannot. A couple and do so cheerfully, the couple cannot have two full-time ca­~ should not have children. 

Ideas and Issues 

reers outside of the house and In my own family, both of my raise children at the same time. c ' parents are qualified profes­
I

This is "The Year of the If a couple merely biologically sionals. My mother, however, Family" at Notre Dame. For produces a child, and then was a teacher while her first many of us that docs not mean sends that child off to day care three children were growing up. much other than a few more eight hours a day, they are not This, fortunately for our family, IPctures publicized in The Ob­raising that child; they are par­is a job which enabled my server. llowevPr, it is an impor­ents in name only. Financial mother to be away from us only tant opportunity to look at all commitment to a human being in the mornings. After my tlw issues involved in tlw der.i­does not a parent make. youngest sister was born, my sion to start and maintain a The refusal to recognize the mother decided to give up her family. Tlw cPntral issue is, of importance of a parent's pres­teaching job so that she could course. the docision to have ence in a child's life is destroy­be home all day. This was a children. Children are a lifotime ing today's understanding of very difficult choice because it commitment. If people plan on family values and destroying involved two things my mother having children. it is essential today's children. It is proof loved, believed in and was that they rec:ognize the sacri­enough to look at the high committed to. quences and sacrifices that are active and physically presentl.irc1s involvPd. number of teenage pregnancies However, my parents recog­
involved in raising a family. parent is as strong as ever.
To raise a family is to volun­and subsequent growth in the nized the growing need for 
This last situation, seeing Although society accepts the
tarily give up time. money and, -number of single parent house-someone to be at home for 
family and career goals as many types of "families," such
most importantly, yourself. holds, as well as at the ex­their children, and this is the 
equally important, is the most as the single-parent and the
without wanting anything in re­tremely high level of drug abuse decision they made. I have the 
common one at a school like dual career family, I believe the 
turn excPpt the well-being of by today's younger generation, greatest respect for my mother 
Notre Dame. We all have the nature of the family calls for a
your son or daughtPr. Once a to see what lack of strong fam­for her decision. Sacrifice is 
talents and abilities, as well as situation in which one parent
l'hild is born. that child will be ily support is doing to our soci­never easy, but she taught her 
the drive, to pursue and succeed works full-time, and the other
with you for the rest of your ety. And what will it be like 30 children that it is necessary
in a variety of careers. We all either works in the home or
lifP. ThPrefore a pan~nt must years from now when these ne­when you love and treasure 
want to play an active role in works only part-time away
commit to the child for tlw rest glected rhildren are supposed your family. of the child's life, promising to to be running the nation? our communities, local and from the home. As a child ages Many other people have faced 
worldwide. However, most of and becomes more independent,
he there for that child always. The concept of family is in­similar decisions. This week the This is a commitment that deed changing today. Many us would also like to raise a it then becomes possible for the Student Union Board is spon­
family one day. This is a at-home parent to slowly re-en­
should not he entered into more parents are being forced soring a number of events fo­
ter the outside working world, 
lightly. to work in order to provide the dilemma. Somewhere we will cusing on gender and family is­
have to give. Along the way it if the parent so desires. But
Today's society seems to have bare necessities for their chil­sues. It is a good opportunity forgotten what sacrifice is. dren and themselves; other will become necessary to sacri­while the child is young, one to hear from some other people
fice something we love. parent must be at home to
Sacrifice is not refraining from parents are putting their own about the decisions they have purchasing and/or consuming desires to have an outside ca­One good thing about today's raise the child properly. made and how they justify C'Prtain products for moral rea­reer above the needs of their society is that it discriminates A child needs a role model, a them. Since many of us will be much less against women than guide and a caretaker while he
sons or giving spare change to children. If this continues, there facing the same types of deci­a homeless woman on the will be no hope for the children. it has in the past. Now it is no or she is growing up, especially sions in our own lives, this is an stmet. As honorable as these Those of us with many op­longer the rule, nor should it in the formative years. Though invaluable opportunity to re­dforts may be. they do not tions open need to sit down and ever have been, that the woman day care centers and nannies flect on how we ourselves will 
must be the one to sacrifice her are designed to fulfill this role,
fundamentally affect a person's figure out what really matters choose between our loves and 
career goals. The new Mr. Mom it should be the responsibility
life. Sacrifice does. For this to us in life. If our career is our our beliefs. 
roason. raising children fun­long-term priority, then we is evolving. This does not, how­of the parent to occupy this darmmtally changes a parent's should not have children. If ever, mean that both Mom and role. This is the responsibility a Maeve O'Donovan is a junior children are our top priority, Dad should be working outside couple takes on when it chooses in the College of Arts and Let­
life because it involves real sac­
rifice. then we must accept the conse-of the home. The need for an to start a family. If a couple is ters. 
LETTERS 

Engaging in deviant sexual behavior only spreads AIDS 
Dear !~'ditor: . toes, ears or t~e nose and sures wer.e not adopted, an? Together with the suffering of blood which, when mixed with 
Durrng the Mrddle Ages, there ·eventually attackmg the heart. people still suffer from this this terrible disease, he was ex-purified water, can be used in a was a dreaded disease known This led to <!-n infected person horrible and fatal disease. pelled from society by virtual human body for a period of as Hansen's disease. It was suffering immensely and, Although a cure has been re-isolation. Treatment centers time (48 hours). Should the rontagious but could only be ultimately, to an early death. cently found, the disease must for Hansen's disease today ad-traveller come to some unfor­communicated through ex-The Church at that time took be diagnosed before any physi-vocate isolation. tunate accident where he tended periods of close contact drastic measures for the bet-cal disfiguration occurs. should receive some extra with an infected person. The terment of society and, in a The drastic measures that the We would hence like to draw blood, he should use this sub-disease attacked the nervous successful attempt to eradicate Church adopted seemed at the a parallel to the scourge that stitute until he can be flown to system, reducing a person's the disease, eliminated the suf-time cruel and inhumane but plagues society today: the fa-the closest clean supply of porception of pain and his abil-fering of millions of people in eradicated the disease. They tal, incurable and predomi-blood-Italy. ity to feel. It then led to physical the region where it had author-made an infected person live nantly self-inflicted disease · deformation by slowly gnawing ity (Europe primarily). Unfor-outside the village limits and AIDS. Scientists suggest that The issue of infection through away a person's limbs-usually tunately. in the African and ring a bell as he walked about the AIDS virus can be a factor blood transfusions is extremely beginning with the fingers, Asian continents these mea-so that he could be avoided. during all types of intercourse, serious. An infected person who 
but in the absence of vaginal donates blood should be prose­'Marshmallow wars' at games reveal student immaturity fluids (as in anal intercourse); cuted as seriously as a person and the virus mutates into the who machine guns children in a 
Dear Editor: 
things flying through the air, 
deadly beast it is. It is tnen school yard. 
Accompanying my mother to who wish the other students spread by fluid exchange be­
the football game this past would stop-I hope I am not Unfortunately blood donor
tween people's bodies and,
weekend gave me the opportu­assuming too much of the stu­regulation is as difficult to en­
most notably, through blood 
nity to sit on the other side of dent body here-yet say noth­force as prohibition once was.
transfusions (the only involun­
the field and observe the stu­ing, and in doing so, tacitly ap­Homosexuals have in the past
tary way). 
dent body. It also made me em­prove of the games. acted irresponsibly by donating 
Decisive action needs to be 
barrassed. for not the first It is clear that many students blood, having sex with multiple
taken now to halt the .spread of 
time, to be a part of it. cannot yet take responsibility partners, and continuing to ag­
AIDS. We are not living in the 
The same students who so for their own actions. As soon gravate society by peeping over
Middle Ages and thus require
often complain about the lack as no one watches their every the bathroom stalls and drilling
perhaps a more civilized ap­
of freedom and responsibility a move, they get drunk or throw holes in the stall walls to per­
proach. A few years ago,
student at Notre Dame gets marshmallows at everyone or form their indecent activities,
Mother Theresa advocated to 
were fervently throwing both. Because they are unable as described in the September
then President Ronald Reagan
marshmallows an~ cups at to act responsibly on their own, the creation of government­issue of U Magazine. each other and throwing or­someone is going to have to 
funded institutions, and nothing 
anges onto the field during the take responsibility for them. We cannot understand why
was done. Perhaps it is time for 
game. This someone can only be the homosexuals want to be ac­
the Church to step in and create 
One would think that, by the University of Notre Dame? administration. Perhaps Notre institutions where physical, cepted by society when they are time one enters college, one On the other hand, I am not Dame should construct a big psychological and spiritual help a danger to everyone's health. would have grown up, a little. sure they are entirely to blame. sandbox with a fence around it can be given to victims. Maybe rather than seeking ac­
Not only is that apparently not Surrounding the students was a right next to the stadium where ceptance, they should be seek­true because the freshmen were fence of yellow-shirted ushers the children can throw all the In order to protect its citi­ing a cure through psychologi­having quite a battle, but it is who, evidently, did not notice sand (or marshmallows or or­zens, the Home Office of the cal counselling and medical also apparently not true that by the zoo behind them. Moreover, anges or cups or bottles) at British Government recom­treatment of hormonal imbal­
the time one leaves college one there is administration that each other that they want-that mends a health kit to all trav­ances. Perhaps the University has grown up a little: the se­says nothing when Irish Insan­way people who come to the ellers to the African continent can begin to provide some con­niors were by far the worst of ity coaches the students before stadium to watch the game and where the practice of homosex­fidential counselling. the entire student body. These the game in preparation for the cheer for the team have a uality and, therefore the pres­Joe Daniel are the products of a higher marshmallow wars. Finally, chance to do so. ence of the deadly AIDS virus, Matt Holloway education that will soon be en­and perhaps worst of all, there James Otteson is rampimt. The health kit con­Phil Marzolf tering the work place of Amer­are all the students in the stu­Planner Hall tains a packet of blood substi­Off-Campus 
ica? These are seniors at the dent section who do not like Nov. 11, 1989 tute primarily made of pig's Nov. 10, 1989 
----_____.,...-.-·--------~­




Accent
page 10 Thursday. November 16, 1989 
'THREE SISTERS' 
Although actors turn in excellent performances, confusing plot and long length detract from the play. 
DEBBIE CHARLESWORTH with the sorvants. accent writer A lot of effort was put into this play as is evideno~d by the Anton Clwkov's play "Three elaborate sets and costumes. Above: Dr. Chebutykin (Andy 
Sisters," perfornwd by Saint The scenery is excellent and Morrow) is persuaded by Lt. The 
Mary's Department of carefully snlected. The acting is Baron Tusenbach (Tony Bosco) 
Communication & Theatre this also laudable. Unfortunately, and Olga (Claudia Wilson) to get 
week, is a story of three sisters, the play is just too long. It is up and dance. their brother and their loves. well over three hours. and sev­Right: Dr. Chebutykin tries to Tlw story takes place in the latP eral seenes could have been cut cheer up Andrey Prozorov l SOOs in pre-revolutionary without losing any meaning. By (Thomas McBride). Hussia. no fault of the actors, the plot 
The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 

Irina, the youngest sister. is dry. played by I.eisa lleintzelman, is Bits of comic rPiief are pro­with whom. The search for the 
a young. spirited 20-year-old vided by Ferapont. played by meaning of life adds to the con­who holds high ideals. She be­Paul Guilbault. Other actors fusion: Dr. Chebutykin claims lieves work is better than being who contribute to some enter­that there is no meaning to life 
a lady of the upppr dass. taining moments in the play are and is not even sure if he really Ironically. she and the other Andy Morrow who plays Dr. exists, while Irina and the characters treat the servants Chebutykin and Will McNulty as Lieutenant The Baron with little respect. the Lieutenant Colonel Tusenbach (Tony Bosco) believe Masha, tho middlt~ sister. Vershinin. that life means happiness 
played by Jill Nieohl Favero, is Siiri S. Scott does a convinc­through hard work. Also, the 
tlw wife of a teadwr. ing job of playing Natasha. the characters are striving to go to 
Unfortunately. she marriPd wife of Andrey Prozorov who is Moscow. They believe if they 
very young and is now disillu­the three sisters' brother, make it there. their lives will be 
sioned with lwr husband. She played by Thomas MeBride. She better. Yet, they fail and must falls in love with another, the married above her station, but settle for something less. Lieutenant ColonPI Vershinin, easily fits the role of a bour­I really wanted to like this but thP audiencP nevN realizes geois. She treats the servants play, but after the second in­tlw extent of their love until poorly when she herself was 
termission, I began to lose my they are forced apart by dr­probably no higher than the enthusiasm. The amount of 
eumstanee. servants before marriage. work put into the play is obvi­
The oldest sister, Olga, played The play simply tries to do ous, and the acting is praise­by Claudia Wilson, is an un­too much in one night. There worthy. If the aetors had a married school teacher. Shn is are so many subplots in the shorter. more straightforward 
the most unselfish of tho sistnrs main plot that it was hard to play, a great production would 
and has the closest relationship keep track of who was in love be a reality. 
World famous cellist brings his music to South Bend Symphony 
CINDY PETRITES 

accent writer 'He earned excel­NapoiPon crowrwd himsPif Plll­pnror. Ktwhrwr dPsrrilwd it as
lent reviews for his 
lie has performed in some of "a powPrful moving piPrt'. dPdi­
the world's most prostigious performances in eated to tlw lwroism of all 
halls: Carnegie llall and mankind."

Europe, Russia, 
Lincoln Center in N(1W York, Prieto began playing (:ello at Kennedy Center in Washington. the United States, age four and has studind with D.C.. the Philharmonic llall in cellists lmrP Ilartman, PierTP Leningrad. This Saturday will and Mexico.' Fournier in Ge1wva. and be South Bend's turn towel­Dame graduate students and Leonard Host> in New York. lie come the world-nmowned professors. The director of narned excellt>nt reviews for his Mexican cellist, Carlos Prieto. publicity of the musie depart­performances in liurope, 
"llis style is passionate, yet ment at Notre Dame, Eric Hussia. the Uni!l'd States and austere. and the array of colors Kuehner, is a bassoonist for Mexico. and he was dwsen tlw that he is able to draw from his the orchestra. lie deseribt>d Outstanding Soloist of tlw Year instrumm1t is indeed remark­Mendelssohn's llebrides whkh for 19S 1 by the Mexican able," says the New Jersey was written by thP 19th century Association of Music Critics. Star-LedgPr of Prieto. Prieto early romantic composer al'ter I lis tours have also been a will be guest soloist with the a visit to the llebrides Islands gmat SUCCI~SS, and this South Bend Symphony in Scotland. Saturday's pPrformance Orchestra on Saturday. Nov. "It's an exciting rhythmic promises to be no exception. 18, for the seeond concert of its piece. It starts ofT with a ter­Student "rush" tickets to tht~ 1989-90 Classical Series. The rific melody, and what makes it concert will be available for $:{ concert, which begins 8:15 p.m. even more interesting is that it Saturday night at 7 p.m. at at Morris Civic Auditorium. will has highs and lows but it's all Morris Civic Auditorium box feature Prieto soloing in the one movement," said Kuehner. office, and at 7:15p.m., French composer Saint-Saens' The second half of the show, maestro Tsung Yeh and Mr. Violincello Concerto No. 1, op. Beethoven's "Eroica," is the Prieto will discuss the evening's 
33. The performance will also symphony in which Beethoven program in "Concert include The llebrides (Fingal's really broke with the past and Comments," which is open to Cave) op. 26 by Mendelssohn led the way into the romantic all ticket buyers. Non-student and Beethoven's Symphony No. period, said Kuehner. ticket prices range from $8.50 3, op. 55 "Eroica." Beethoven originally dedicated to $25.00, and are now 
The ranks of the South Bend the piece to Napoleon, but later available at the Symphony box Symphony include several Notre revoked the dedication when office. 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­


ursday, November 16, 1989 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
TaeKwonDo/Hapkido Club will meet 8:30 to 9:30 p.m. Tuesdays and Thursdays in Room 219 Hockne Memorial. Sixth degree black belt Phil !long will teach the classes. Beginners are welcome. 
The NO Boxing Club will hold a mandatory meeting for all 1990 Bengal Bouts participants, Thursday, Nov. 16 at 7 p.m. in the football auditorium and the Joyce ACC. Enter Gate 2. 
Used hockey equipment will be sold frm 8 to 1 o p.m. Thursday, Nov. 16, at the Joyce ACC. Cash and checks only will be accepted. 
lnterhall football equipment will not be taken at the NVA oflicn. The next return date will be after Thanksgiving. 
David Rivers, the former Notre Dame guard, has signed a contract with the National Baskntball Association's Los Angeles Clippers. Rivers, the all-time Irish leader in eareer st•~als and assists. had been eut in the preseason by the expansion Miniwsota Timberwolves. Hivers played for the Los Angeles !.akers last season. 
In NHL action Thursday, tlw Toronto Maple Leafs downed the St. Louis Blues 5-2, the Boston Bruins whipped the llartford Whalers 5-2, the Montreal Candadiens trouneed the Winnipeg Jets 5-1, the Minnesota North Stars trimmed the Nnw Jersey Devils 2-1 and the Los Angeles Kings tied the Edmonton Oilers 2-2. 
Bruce Sutter, the former star relief pitcher for the Chieago Cubs and St. Louis Cardinals, has bnen released by the Atlanta Braves. 
The Southeastern Conference and Big Ten Conference havn agreed to an annual women's basketball tournament inviting two teams from each h~ague, beginning next season. 



Classifieds 
The Observer 
11 

Jazz's Stockton leads team over Bulls in final seconds 
SALT LAKE CITY {APJ ­Utah's John Stockton victimized Chicago's Michael Jordan twice in the final half­minute, including a layup at the buzzer that gave the Jazz a 108-107 NBA victory over the Bulls on Wednesday night. 
Stoekton buzzer-beater capped an 8-0 run in the final 38 seconds that nullified Jordan's 40-point -effort, including 22 in the final period. 
Jordan scored with 40 seconds remaining to give the Bulls a 107-100 lead. But Stockton made a 3-pointer with 38 seconds left and four seconds later Blue Edwards hit one of two free throws. 
With 26 seconds to go, Stockton stole the ball from Jordan and fed Edwards. whose basket pulled the Jazz within one point. 
Utah got the ball back when Chicago's John Paxson was called for traveling with four seconds left. After a timeout by each team, Utah's Thurl Bailey inbounded to Stockton in the backcourt and he drove the length of floor and scored over Jordan at the buzzer. 
Karl Malone led the Jazz with 29 points, Stockton had 22 and Bailey 20. Paxson scored 27 for Chicago, 17 in the third period. 
Lakers 117 Pacers 94 
A.C. Green had 24 points and 16 rebounds and James Worthy added 20 points, including the 10,000th of his NBA career, as the Los Angeles Lakers handed the Indiana Pacers their first defeat of the season, 117-94 Wednesday night. 
Byron Scott added 19 points for the Lakers, who outrebounded the Pacers 55-36 en route to their sixth triumph in their first seven games and their fifth in a row. 
The Pacers, who opened the season with four consecutive victories and were the NBA's last unbeaten team, were led by Vern Fleming and Reggie Miller with 22 points apiece. 
The Lakers consistently beat the Pacers on the offensive board over the first 27 1/2 minutes of the game but did not begin to pull away until the third quarter. when they used a 12-2 spurt to extend their two­point halftime lead to 67-55. 
Suns109 Trail Blazers1 07 

The Phoenix Suns erased an 11-point deficit in the final period and beat the Portland Trail Blazers 109-107 Wednesday night on Eddie Johnson's jump shot with seven seconds remaining. 
Portland, which trailed 89-79 after three periods and 93-82 with 10 minutes remaining, used a 12-0 run to take a 94-93 lead on Jerome Kersey's driving layup with 6:52 left. 
The lead exchanged hands 10 times before two free throws by Phoenix's Tom Chambers with 43 seconds left tied the score 107-107. The Suns' Kevin Johnson drove the lane, then fed back to Eddie Johnson at the top of the key for his game­winning basket and the last of his 24 points. 
A last-second layup by 
Portland's  Terry  Porter  
bounced  off  the  rim  as  the  
buzzer sounded.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
Model United Nations will meetWANTED MIAMI GA'S. 
MACINTOSH 512K DILLON NIGHTS AT THE MOVIES Thursday, Nov. 16, at 7 pm for a

WI PRINTER & ACCESS. TOP$$PD.

NOTICES WANTED 
-Each and Every Weekend-simulation, in 220 Hayes-Healy. 

CALL 256-1 034 WORDPROCESSING THANKS! 
$750 272-2172 

HELP' RIDE NEEDED FROM ..LONG ISLANo·· ·FRIDAY­
272·8827 
PHILADELPHIA-WILMINGTON 9:00 Colors
Need ride T-giving. Will share$.
ALUM in NEED of NO/MIAMI 

AREA BACK TO ND Sun. 11/26 !·WAY TICKET FROM SB TO 11 :30 Planes. Trains. Automobiles
PLEASE!! Joni 2773 
WORD PROCESSING tickets!!! Call on weekdays d~ring
DALLAS/FORT WORTH. LEAVES 272-8827 the day COLLECT at# Call Greg X3254 
DEC 22.FEMALE ONLY. -SATURDAY-
Desp. seeking ride to IU
202-457-5729. Do not hesitate to

I need Catholics vs. Convicts II $160.CALL LISA AT 4916. BLOOMINGTON· Nov 17. 18 9:00 Robocop
THANKSGIVING SERVICE call. Your tickets will be bought!! 
T-shirts' Please call Kathleen at Pis. help· Will pay GAS 284-4167 11 :30 Good Morning, Vietnam 
PROJECT: Join other students CHEAP AT TIX SBEND(12122) to284-5120
working at a shelter for the home­HAVE TWO MIAMI GA'S 
SACTO.CA RETURN(1115) Marge -In the Dillon Party Room-
IT'S CRAB PARADISE! 
less in Chicago. Call Jim Cabot B.O. BY THUR. EVE. 
283-2898 -It's fun...and it's FREH­OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo. 
IT'S CRAB PARADISE' Summer. Yr. round, All Countries, 
@ 277-9198 or Mike Affeck@ CALL ROB 232-5701 
239-7943. 
MIAMI TIX MATT SIMPSON All fields. Free info. Write IJC. PO STUDENTS WANTED TO
MIAMI TIX NEEDED

BX 52-Corona Del Mar CA 92625 for sale plus MATT SIMPSON 
MARKET NO CALENDAR OF 
TEXTBOOKS Rich Alum hates the 'Canes 
plane tic MATT SIMPSON 
EVENTS. CALL ALLEN 277-4469 
BOUGHT AND SOLD Call Ted 256-5727
john 1700 Happy 21st Birthday!!
ATTENTION-HIRING'Pandora's Books 
for info .. .and when you go out of here 
Government jobs -your area. Need a ride to Richmond, VA, DC
corner of N.D. ave and Howard need PSU ga's Rick #1795 tonight, remember to represent$17.840-$69.485. Call 1-602-838­or general area for Thanksgiving. 
233·2342 the University while YOU are being
8885. Ext. R-6262. Will help pay for gas. 
lots of paperbacks 1n stock' Help! We really need tickets for served'!!
Call X2933
PENN STATE x2631

2 RT TIX Fi SB TO ST. LOUIS. INCOME FOR HOME ASSEMBLY $100 EACH, OR BEST OFFER. Ride needed from Pittsburgh to ATTENTION: EXCELLENT 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 
WORK. INFO. CALL 504-646-1700 CALL LIZ@ 284-5199. CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable ND after Thanksgiving. Will share 287-4082. RIT from SB to Orlando 
expenses. Call Karen x4929

DEPT. P5868 atmosphere, daily & weekly 
Nov. 23-28 : $150???? 

specials. pool table, English darts, 
TYPING term Call Pam x2732 or x2741
RIDERS NEEDED TO BOWLING and great company. 234-3541papers/reports/letters/resumes 
Plane Ticket: Attention JUNIORS; GREEN, OHIO. 11117-11/19.
Pick up & delivery available. 277­
Lv: 12121 O'Hare 11 :08 AM The lottery for rooms at the Morris
CALL X 1675 HiAg!
5134 10am-8pm Ar: ROCHESTER. NY 1:34 PM \ PERSONALS Inn during JPW will take place $75 orBO Friday, December 1. Registration
Three Squeeze Tix $15 or $5 each ANTI-APARTHEID VIGIL EVERY RIDE NEEDED: To Indiana U. 
Call1329 GOING ABROAD SALE will be held in the Dooley Room in (Bloomington) weekend of Nov. 
LaFortune from 7:30 to 9:00p.m.

X 4121 FRI12:15 ADMIN BLDG STEPS 17-19. Will pay gas$$$. Call 
IBM Proprinter XL ($250) & on November 29 & 30. 
x 1502 & ask for John. 
December A&L or Business Grads Wanna get home quick for IBM PC Jr. w/ 256K ($300), (OBO) THANKSGIVING I have a Joe.
Do your professors put notes, old 
Want to earn more $than your one-way ticket to PHILA­MANY PROGRAMS INCLUDED ... Congrats on being six for six on 
exams, answers, and other 
LOST/FOUND engineering friends? Looking for DELPHIA airport-TUES.21 Call Christine 283-2845 office interviews. I know that you'll 
readings on reserve? Ask yourpersonable. energetic individuals CHEAP! #272-9455 be six for six on offers too.
professors to put them on file at18 K necklace with charms lost-.. 
to build new branch of multi·billion ADOPTION -Well-educated Good luck on your tests this week 
THE COPY SHOP where you can $ corp. Must be honest. ambitious. couple eager to adopt a baby. and have a very BAD weekend. 
Please return to Stephanie @ 284­get 6a: copies quickly 4431 
& eager to learn. For personal GIRL SCOUT COOKIES. Cheerful home full of books. K mterview call 271-0173 between HELP ME GO TO HORSE CAMP. Flexible on sharing information 
TO MARYANNLOST: Two Cross Pens bearing 
8am-4pm. Ask for Mr $2/BOX. with birth mother about child. Our 
I LOVE YOU VERY MUCH, Firstenbergerthe AT&T logo. One lost on 10/16 
CALL ANGELA 234-9669 OR LV. adoption agency can provide DID YOU HAPPEN TO NOTICE in room 122 Hayes Healy. other 
MIKEY 
MESSAGE. counseling and references. Please THAT TRACIE O'CONNELL'S lost in LaFortune. Have 
Need Ride to ROCH. NY for 1 or 2 call collect 309-827-3135 HAIR GOT LONGER THIS sentimental value. If found please 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 
· Headed to Buff, Syr, Alb or eves/wknds for profile/photo. WEEKEND?
mo.Summer,Yr.round,AII
call Joe@ 3804: REWARD 
nCKETS
Boston? James and Hollis. 
Countries,AII fields, Free info. 
Just drop me/us off @ any 90 exit TOL. NATHE
Write IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona 
call Joe x264 7 $$$HELP$$$ Q.T "WHAT ARE YOU DOING FOR 
Del Mar CA 92625. 
NEED MIAMI TIX FIND ME AT MY PLACE. OFF THANKSGIVING?" 
LOST: single key. no key chain, Riders needed to N.Y.C. area 
CALL 3516 CAMPUS. 
OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTs­marked 209. Lost Sunday Leave Monday 11/20 in A.M. 
LENNY 

take a load off! Rent a locker in afternoon between 02 and North Call Rich x 1527 FOR SALE: LaFortune. Contact the Quad. Call Cara x4917. 
Send a personal to a friendMany MIAMI Ga's 

RIDE TO NYC FOR TURKEY Information Desk, Call Keira 2169 
LENNY'S WHERE DOMER"S studying abroad. Call Kara at 1825
1st Floor LaFortune BREAK CALL DAN 2364 OR 2363 FOUND: ND ACADEMIC 

MEET. NOW OFFERING PIZZA, for details. 
EXCELLENCE T-SHIRT IN 
DELl SAND.. BURGERS, BEER. NORTH DINING HALL ON NOV. 6. 
TOP$ 
MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL
ALL HOME GA'S You may have a pre-paidCALL CHRIS 1072. 

FORRENT ) 
312-920-9350 

Value Check Coupon Book 
WATCH THE GAME AT LENNY'S 
waiting for you at the Male/female housemate needed 

Want To Be A 
DAILY FOOD SPECIALS. 

LaFortune Information Desk. 
for next semester. Own bedroom. I simply must have 
LOST: GOLD BRACELET 
Big Brother/Big Sister? 

Please stop in soon and check. 
close to campus. house in greatWhoever found it in 8:00 chemistry 
One must believe that 'it is better 
2 Miami tickets 
Now's your chance! 

condition. 120/mo. +Uti\.
last Friday, could you please call 
-"­

to have loved and lost (for now), me? Lisa X4916 call Ted@ 1204please call 289-4621 
then never to have loved 

NEED RIDE: to Wash. DC area for WANTED: MIAMI GAs for lots o 
Big Brothers/Big Sisters 
at all.' 

ATCH FOUND BETWEEN BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. Thanksgiving break 
cash. Call John or Frank X1419 
orientation meeting for all 

CALL X1329 OR X1331 
219-291-7153. 
A FORTUNE ON MON 11/13/89 
IEWLAND SCIENCE AND 
interested freshmen and 
BROCCOLI

Wanted 2 tickets for the Miami 
sophomores TONIGHT, 

game. Call Bob at 312-832·3308
FOR SALE
ALL 2489 TO IDENTIFY 
Nov. 16 at the Center for 
-.
$$! 
Social Concerns from 

OST: gold ring with 3 sm rubies 
Three Squeeze Tix I need a ride back from Ft. 
7:00-7:30pm. 

omewhere between 'brare. BOSTON ANYONE? 
$15 or $5 each Lauderdale after Christmas Break. 
'Shag, North. and Lewis on roundtrip plane ticket SB to Boston 
COME BE A PART OF A 
2 MIAMI GA 4 SALE 

X 4121 Will share expenses. Call Will at 1/15. Pleasecallx4161. Thank leaving 11/21-$150 or b/o STEVE 3013 
GREAT PROGRAM!! ou 
283-1474.
call Myndy @2472 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
r 
Ellison takes first steo into NBA 
Sacramento 's Coach looking for the long-term benefits 
a 

e 12 The Observer 
SACHAMENTO, Calif. (API -WhPn Pnrvis Ulison made his NBA debut for the Saeranwnto Kings. the No. I draft piek had a son~ foot and was unfamiliar with the Kings' plays. 
Tlw Kings lost IJ(,-1J4 to the Chicago Bulls on Tuesday, but Sarranwnto coach .Jerry HPynolds said lw was willing to sarritirP the game to introduce Ellison to the NBA. 
Heynolds said lw hopes the invPstnwnt wilt pay off later this season, not just with a winning record but by pushing tlw Kings to tlw top dozf'n learns in the league. 
"I thought (Ellison I played reasonably confident. consider­ing lw's hasn't practiced enough to n~ally know the plays." Hnynolds said. "lin went out tlwr!' and lookPCI fairly comfortabln on the floor." 
"liP cl'rtainly madn a differ­encP. lie lwlp«~d us on thn floor, which was realty more than I expected. I was hoping lw wouldn't hurt us. and he lwlpnd us." 
Tw~sday's ganw was Ellison's first since undnrgoing borw surgery on his right fool and ankiP seven weeks ago. During 13 minutns of play time, hn seornd (, points, had two re­bounds and blocked a shot. 
Ellison said he wasn't as con­fident as he may have looked. "Ttwy would change the plays as we were playing," h~~ said. 
g(t 


Pervis Ellison 
"It's easy to sit on the sidPiines and look at something. but when you're out there it's a to­tally different feeling. When I was out there, he (Heynolds) was changing plays and I was lost at times, but tlw guys on the floor would tell me." 
Ellison said his foot was stiff 
when he entPn~d the game. and 
he tin~d quickly, but his ankle 
loosened and his endurance im­
proved during a second, albeit 
brief, shift on the court. 
llowevN, he skipped practice Wednesday and was unsure if he would play in Thursday's game against the New York Knick. "My foot, it felt bad to­day," he said. "Today actually was the lirst time it's felt this bad in a whiiP." 
Heynolds said he expects a checkered performance from Ellison until he's healthy, but the team needs him now. Heynolds said he's counting on Ellison to play against New York. 
"This team ean't win consis­tently without him," Heynolds said. "The longer we wait, the longer it puts it off. Because even if we put it off two weeks, we'd still be going through the same process we're going through now, of him trying to play 12 minutes, then trying to play 15 minutes. whatever. So I thought it was best to get him in there now. 
"The doctor says he's cer­tainly not in any danger. llis foot's sore, but it would be sore two weeks from now if we didn't play him. It's going to take a couple weeks, so I'd rather do it now. And maybe the first of December he'll be ready." 
Ellison's performance Tuesday had his teammates ea­ger to see more. 
"I think Pervis played pretty good," Danny Ainge said. "lie didn't play great, but you eould really see in the short amount of time of practice he's had and the game what were his strong points -his passing ability and his shot-blocking ability. lie's shown little flashes of what lw could be. We'ro really anxious for him to get lwalthy. 
"Pervis isn't a savior," Ainge said. "I don't think he's a fran­chise player. I think Pervis is a very good player and can make people around him a lot betwr." 

APF't-ok> Former Louisville star Pervis Ellison made his NBA debut for the Sacramento Kings against the Chicago Bulls on Monday night. Ellison, the No. 1 draft choice in the 1989 NBA draft pick. is coming off bone surgery on his right foot. 
Jury convicts Darville, found guilty on all three counts 
MINNEAPOLIS (API -Luther Darville was convicted Wednesday of three felony counts of theft by swindle for taking $18h,OOO from the University of Minnesota and giving some of it to student athletes. 
A 12-person llennepin County jury found Darville guilty as charged after deliberating two made to students by people other than Darville. 
"The extent of (the thefts) surprised all of us in that nobody for so many years knew anything about it," said Thorpe, a 39-year-old businessman. 
According to testimony at the two-week trial, Darville took the money while he worked for Fitzgerald could choose harsher penalties because the charges involve economic crimes. Fitzgerald ordered a presentence investigation and scheduled the sentencing for Dec. 6. 
University of Minnesota President Nils Hasselmo, athletic director Hick Bay and basketball coach Clem Haskins himself," Connors said. "The fact is that he gave this money to his friends and if you weren't his friend or a star athlete, you didn't get money." 
Connors cited Darville's refusal to name additional athletes to whom he allegedly gave money as an effort to cover up his wrongdoing. Darville was cited for contempt insisted th«~y had no knowiPdgP of the paynwnts. 
Dnfense attorney .Janws Lawton accused university officials of abandoning Darville in an effort to prevent further sanctions by thn National Collegiate Athletic Association. lie said NCAA penalties could eost the university millions of dollars in lost revenues. 
hours and 45 minutes. 
the university Oflice of Minority called a news conference for of court for his refusal. "We'rn not talking about 
Darville testified in his and Speeial Student Affairs. 10:30 a.m. Thursday to "It's never nice to call a $186,000. We're talking about defense that all the missing Thorpe said the jury found respond to the verdict. person a thief, but that's what millions of dollars," Lawton money was doled out to needy .little credibility in Darville's In closing arguments this defendcnt is," Connors said. athletes and other students on testimony. But he also said Wednesday, prosecutor Pete said. "The defendant's nose instructions from his superiors. panel members questioned why Connors urged jurors to find didn't grow like Pinnochio's, "This case is about power ­
But jury foreman John university officials did not Darville guilty because he said but he is a stranger to the who has power. The university Thorpe of Minneapolis said the detect the swindling sooner. the bulk of the money was not truth." has a great deal of powPr and jury was convinced that The money was taken over a given to needy students but was During the two-week long money," Lawton said. "It's Darville acted alone in five-year period ending in 1988. instead put to Darville's trial. jurors heard testimony really easy to blame things on embezzling the funds. But he Though state sentencing personal usc. from several athletes that Mr. Darville. lie's a sitting said testimony from former guidelines recommend a "This man is not a hero Darville gave them money for duck. All he did was the best hn Gophers athletes convinced the maximum of one year in prison protecting innocent people. food, clothing and other items. could," the defense lawyPr jury that some payments were on each count, Judge Patrick He's a coward protecting University offieials repeatedly added. 
sgo:sored by SUB' the yetzr ofthe FIZmily Committu, IZnd the rzrrtment of Gorder Shldies. 

Thursday: PANEL DISCUSSION "Careers, Families, and Gender Roles" Library Auditorium 7:30pm 
Find out why real women and men have chosen to .... --marry/remain single --have/not have children --pursue a careerI stay at home 
Free Admission! 
Cinema at the Snlte 
FRIDAy 7:30 9:30
I 
-


NEW MONEY-SAVING 
DE 
From Domino's Pizza® 
CALL NOW! 
DOUBLE GUARANTEE If your pizza isn't right, we'll 
Notre Dame 
make it right. If it's late, we'll give you $3.00 OFF! Call us 
for details. 1835 South Bend Ave. 
271-0300 
©1989 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 

r ~~~!~!:~e !1~ftT THE CLOCK• 5.\\ 1 ~~I ~r~6~:~;!~~.~T~~~·!one-topping pizzas and the time ydu call is th~~~::u pa: II Call from 7pm -Bpm order Two 12" One-topping pizzas and the time you call is the price you pay! Call from Bpm -9pm order Two 14" One-topping pizzas and the time you call is the price you pay! Call from 9pm -10pm order Two One-topping pan pizzas and the time you call is the price you pay! 
Valid al participat•ng stores only. Nol valid with any other offer. Pnces may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery area limited to ensure sale driving . Our dnvers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized lor late deliveries ©1989 Dom1no's Pizza. Inc.
L .J r THURSDAY'S THINK THICK! 1 
Get One Medium Pan Pizza loaded with cheese and pepperoni
I FOR ONLY $6.00 t5;; I 
Valid al participating stores only. Nol valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales lax where applicable. Delivery area limited lo ensure safe driving . Our dnvers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for lale defivenes. ©1989 Domino's PIZza. Inc. 
L .J 
,
r-

SUNDAY'S DOUBLE FEATURE 
Get Two Small Cheese Pizzas! 
1 FOR ONLY $5.49 
I 
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other olfer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery area limited to ensure sale driving. Our drivers carry less \han $20.00. Our drivers are no1 penalized lor tate deliveries. ©1989 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 
L J 
,
r-

ANYDAY! 
1 

Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other olfer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery area limited toensure sale driving. L Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized IO< late deliveries. ©1989 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 
/ 
.. 

-
·------~-----..-....----------­
---~-------------­
page 14 The Observer Thursday, November 16, 1989 


COLUMBIA, S.C. (AP) -While some of his South Carolina teammates were more careful when discussing Clemson ­after all it is THAT week ­offensiv11 tackle Ike Harris would have none of that. 
"I hate Clemson," Harris said. "It's the orange." 
Harris hasn't liked orange for a long time. The junior played at Lower Richland High School, which was archrivals with Eau Claire -a team also known to wear the dreaded orange. 
"They happened to be green and orange," he said. "Now. Clemson is white and orange." 
Harris likes to hit anything that's orange -including traflic cones. 
"I ran over a few of them." Harris said. ''I'm only kidding," he added with a laugh. 
Neither he nor the Gamecocks will be in th11 mood for kidding Saturday when 15th-ranked Clemson comes to town for the annual showdown between the state's only 1-A football teams. 
The game is considered the most important sports event in the state every year. Friends are pitted against friends -on and off the field. There's a 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
Tiger Burn at South Carolina, pep rallies at both schools. And that's before the game. 
"Everywhere you go people are saying, 'Beat Clemson,' " Harris said. "Other people are saying, 'You all going to get dogged by Clemson.' " 
But that is nothing compared to what is said on the field by the players. Harris said there's "terrible trash talk" once the game begins. 
Clemson is 8-2 and apparently headed to the Gator Bowl. The Tigers are 14-point favorites over the Gamecocks, who are 6-3-1 and hoping for a bowl bid, possibly to the Independence Bowl. 
The Tigers beat the Gamecocks 29-10 last year and lead the series 50-32-4. Harris is hoping to avenge that humiliating loss. 
"It was one of the worst feelings last year." Harris said, "especially the long bus ride home after you lose. Everybody pats you on the back and says you played well. 
"But you know you didn't. You didn't play well enough. So you can't wait for another year to come by -and it's finally here." 
Harris is confident the 

3 LSU players have learned their lesson 
BATON HOUGE, La. (AI'l  Action this year for "failing  
-Three Louisiana State  to pay proper attention to  
basketball players learned  academies."  
big lessons from tlw humilia­ "I love him for it," Holwrts  
tion that carne with failing to  said. "I missml some classes.  
meet a cutoff score on a  If I kept going the way I was.  
standardized test.  I would have flunked out."  
Now they know first-hand  Largl'ly because of  
the meaning of what Coach  .Jackson's dewlopm1~nt into a  
Dale Brown prnaches to his  freshman /\11-/\merican, LSU  
team: The most meaningful  won 20 games last season  
lessons are leanwd from tlw  without tlw rest of tlw tal­ 
biggest disappointnwnts.  entPd young players Brown  
All three had to sit out last  had courted.  
year. victims of NCAA Hule  That doPsn't nwan Brown  
5-l(j,) more commonly  likes Proposition 48 any  
known as Proposition 48.  morl' than lw did last y1Htr  
"Pp,rsonally, I'm strong for  when lw joirwd CeorgPtown's  
Proposition 48," said 6-foot­ .John Thompson and  
9 llarold Boudrnaux. a high  Temple's .John ChanPy in a  
school All-AmPrican. "It  public protest of rules rP­ 
ought to make you work  quiring stiffer acadPmie  
harder on the books."  standards for athlPtns PntPr­ 
"He didn't feel like that  ing college on scholarship.  
last year," added 7-foot  The best way to accom­ 
Stanley Hoberts, anotlwr  plish the same goal, lw said.  
high school All-American  would bP to make freshnwn  
who had to sit out last sea­ ineligible across tlw board.  
son at LSU.  "That way, Pverybody  
Roberts was one of thosn  saves an ernbarrassnwnt.  
picked to an "All-America  Cive people livn years to play  
Prop 48" team last year by a  four. Pay five ynars for a  
Ap Photo national publication.  scholarship," he said.  
Largely because Roberts.  "A lot of play<>rs aren't as  
Boudreaux and Mauric11  secure as you think tlwy  
Williamson have done their  are," he said. "You may look  
time under the NCAA rule  at thorn initially and think  
and are now eligible to join  they are secure, but they  
Gamecocks will win. But don't  Chris Jackson on the court,  have a lot of insecurities.  
exp11ct him to guarantee it, like  LSU opened the season  "People just sometimes see  
Joe Namath before Super Bowl  ranked No. 2.  them as big bodies, but them  
III.  Actually, Brown recruited  is a lot of sensitivity and  
''I'd rather be an underdog  six academically "iffy" play­ gentleness and insecurity in  
because .. . you don't have  ers last year. Jackson passed  these kids, and I don't think  
anything to lose," he said. "But  the standardized test on his  you havn to point it out to  
you do. You have everything to  final try. Boudreaux,  the whoII~ world."  
lose.... But I don't think we're  Roberts and Williamson  All three of the players  
going to lose.  signed and sat out. Steve  said they thought they would  
"I can't guarantee it. But ... I  Cooke, athlete of the year in  pass their tests and be eligi­ 
think we'll win."  Oregon, and Kevin Moses, a  ble as freshmen.  
Harris probably wasn't as  top prospect from  "I was rnally disappoint1~d  
confident in 1987 when he  Mississippi. also failed to  in myself. I felt so dumb,"  
played in his first South  make the cutoff score.  Hoberts said. "I was really  
Carolina-Clemson game. lie  Brown advised them to en­ down. and Coach Brown  
was having trouble just  roll in a junior college and  called me and told me to get  
standing up as the Gamecocks  transfer to LSU next year.  my head up, to make some­ 
prepared to go onto the field.  Boudreaux had a B aver­ thing positive out of it. lie  
"I almost passed out right  age both semesters of his  picked me up."  
before the game.... '2001' was  freshman year and made the  "It made me a stronger  
playing," he said. "When they  dean's list. Roberts had a B  person," he said.  
shot the cannon, I got dizzy.  average for the spring  
Somebody had to catch me ... " Harris said the players began to yell, " 'Let's go!' " They did. He didn't -at least not  semester. Williamson said he's making the grades, but it isn't coming easy. "I don't think college is supposed to  Boudreaux said he donsn't go along with those who be­lieve the test is racially bi­ased.  
immediately.  be easy, is it?" he said.  
"Everybody else was gone,"  Brown benched Hoberts  "That makes it sound like  
Harris said with a laugh. "I  for the opening exhibition  blacks are dumb or can't  
was like the last one coming  game against Athletes in  pass a test," he said.  
out."  

'89-'90 Engineering Grads 
If you're interested in a career with a high tech, progressive company, you should DISCOVER WHAT BAILEY CONTROLS HAS TO OFFER. We're one of the world's leading suppliers of distributed control systems, computer-based management systems and state-of-the-art instru­mentation for industrial process controls applications. 
Learn how you can begin a rewarding career in a dynamic, fast-paced and challenging environment. Contact your Placement office today for more information on positions in the fields of Chemical, Electrical and Mechanical Engineering. 
Your Bailey Controls Representative will be on campus 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 28 
Qualified candidates are also invited to write to: Employee Relations; HRGRAD; Bailey Controls Company; 29801 Euclid Avenue; Wickliffe Ohio 44092. Equal Opportunity Employer. ' 
IBl nil 
~I Seamless, Real-Time

ale ~~~~~~n~anagement 

-


----~----------1 
Thursday, November 16, 1989 The Observer page 15 
l 
I ""· I
I 
I 
I 
Getting Comfortable With a Zenith Laptop Now 
.. 


l 
.. lI 
Can Make for a Comfortable 1 i 
I
Future in the Real World 
I i 
1
Zenith Puts the Power of a Desktop in Your Lap 
.• I ~ 
I I 
For More Details Contact 
Notre Dame Computer Store Office of University Computing 
I 
Math/Computer Building 239-7477 
• I 
Mon. Fri. 9 -5 
1 
j 
I 
J 


page 16 The Observer 
New Year's bowl picture solidified 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Associate Sports Editor 

When the Cotton Bowl officials announced their intentions to invite the Southeastern Conference runner-up to Dallas on New Year's Day, it pretty much wrapped up the New Year's Day bowl picture. 
Things figure to go like this when the invitations are expeeted Saturday: 
Rose: Pac-1 0 champion (Southern California) vs. Big Ten champion (probably Michigan. maybe Illinois or Ohio State) 
Cotton: Southwest Conference champion (Arkansas or Texas A&M) vs. SEC runner-up (probably Tennessee, maybe Alabama) 
Orange: Big Eight champion Colorado vs. Notre Dame 
Sugar: SEC champion (probably Alabama, maybe Tennessee) vs. Miami 
Fiesta: Florida State vs. Nebraska 
Citrus: Probably Virginia vs. Big Ten runner-up (probably Illinois) 
Hall of Fame: Auburn vs. Ohio State 
A eouple of games that will bP played after bowl invitations are announced could mess up these pairings. The biggest shakeups would occur if Ohio State beat Michigan Nov. 25 at Ann Arbor or if Auburn wins easily at horne against Alabama Dec. 2. For the time being. however, these games look fairly set. 
Perhaps the biggest surprises on the New Year's invitation list are Tennessee and Ohio State, who both rebounded from losing seasons last year. 
Those two schools weren't the only ones to have done much better than expected thus far this season. 
The five other surprise teams: 
1) Alabama: Bill r.urry probably isn't hearing too many voices from Tuscaloosa calling for his job anymore. 
The Tide docs have maybe the country's best linebacker in 
Flannery

• 
continued from page 20 

epitomizes what Notre Dame stands for. and in that respect, I think he'll do well in politics." 
But please excuse Flannery if he temporarily ignores the future political career in order to concentrate on this coming Saturday's game against Penn State. Two years ago, when Flannery was a sophomore, the Irish travelled to Beaver Stadium with an 8-1 record and an outside chance at a National Championship. 
But Lou Holtz's squad put in a very lackluster performance on a frigid November day and lost a 21-20 heartbreaker to the Nittany Lions. Flannery doesn't believe there is any danger of a repeat performance this weekend, even if the wind chill does reach 20 degrees below zero again. 
"Two years ago it was very cold at Penn State," Flannery recalls. "We were still 8-1 at the time, but more people were concerned about keeping warm than they were about winning the football game. We have learned from that experience,
• 
and this year we know what to 

College 

Football~ 

Keith McCants, but it was tough to think 'Bama could make a run for the Sugar Bowl after Bobby Humphrey announced last summer his plans to head for the NFL. Quarterback Gary Hollingsworth, who replaced the injured Jeff Dunn at mid­season, may be the SEC's most valuable player. 
2) Air Force: The Falcons benefitted from an easy sehedule early, and have tailed off in the last part of the season. but Dee Dowis and the Force still have made a remarkable recovery from last year's 5-7 campaign. Air Force, 7-3 with games left at Utah and Hawaii, is headed for the Liberty Bowl at Memphis. Tenn., as the top military academy team. 
3) Texas Tech: Wins against Arizona. Texas A&M and Texas have shown the SWC that the Hed Haiders finally deserve some respect. Evidently headed for either the All-American Bowl or Peach Bowl, Tech is 7­2 with games remaining at SMU and Houston. 
4) Hawaii: How many people realize the Rainbows are 8-2? Hawaii's potent offense has scored more than 60 points three times this season and torched Brigham Young with a 56-14 thrashing three weeks ago. It looks as though the Hainbows will host Michigan State in the Aloha Bowl. 
5) Colorado: Most people knew this team would be good. But nobody predicted the Buffaloes could beat Oklahoma and Nebraska on consecutive weeks, and would go on to play for the national title. Colorado also recorded early-season victories over Texas, Illinois and Washington. Aside from the 27-21 win over Nebraska, no Colorado games have been decided by less than 17 points. 
Florida State, Arizona State and Duke also deserve credit for the way they have 
do. We have a very business­like attitude about this game." 
The most important business for the Irish defense this coming Saturday will be to stop Blair Thomas, the Penn State running back who ran for 214 yards on 35 carries against Notre Dame two years ago but sat out last season after undergoing surgery. 
STEAKS PRIME RIB SEAFOOD 


rebounded after disappointing starts. 
The Seminoles managed to go from 0-2 to the top five this season, wading through a brutal schedule that has included Clemson, Syracuse, Auburn and Miami. 
Arizona State has won three consecutive games against Washington State, Washington and Stanford to go from the depths of the Pac 10 to a 6-3-1 record. 
Duke, which was 1-3 after four games, has won its last six contests, including a 21-17 upset of Clemson. The Blue Devils appear bound for the All-American Bowl bound, and coach Steve Spurrier could be headed for greener pastures. 
Reports have the University of Florida, Spurrier's alma mater, wanting him as its next permanant head coach. Indianapolis, Phoenix and the New York Jets of the NFL also are interested in Spurrier. 
Spurrier coached the Tampa Bay Bandits of the United States Football League earlier this decade. His wide-open ·style of play, called "Banditball" in those days, helped make Tampa Bay one of the few USFL franchises to win games and turn a profit. 
Don't walk too close to Jerry Berndt. Storm clouds are sure to be around somewhere in the vicinity. 
Berndt coached Hice to an 0­11 record last season, though the Owls did lose a few dose games to quality SWC opposition. 
During the off-season, Berndt moved to Temple, and his hard luck has followed him to Philadelphia. Temple currently holds an 0­
10  record  and  will  hope  to  
salvage  its  season  Nov.  18  
against Rutgers.  

Dating back to 1987, Berndt has lost 28 consecutive games as a head coach. He last directed a team to victory Sept. 26, 1987, when Rice downed Southwest Texas State 38--28 (the Owls also beat Lamar that year on their way to a 2-9 record). 
"We're going to have to play our best defense to stop Thomas and win this football game," says Flannery. "Our main concern is obviously to stop the run, and once we establish that, we'II get to the quarterback." 
And move yet one step closer toward a second National Championship. 
100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet 
and Sunday brunch 
219-259-9925 

------------------------------------------,
F R E E 
SCHOLARSHIP INFORMATION FOR 
STUDENTS WHO NEED 

MONEY FOR COLLEGE 
Every Student is Eligible for Some Type of Financial Aid Regardless of Grades or Parental Income. 
• 
We have a data bank of over 200,000 listings of scholarships, fellowships, grants, and loans, representing over $10 billion In private sector funding. 

• 
Many scholarships are given to students based on their academic Interests, career plans, family heritage and place of residence. 

• 
There's money available lor students who have been newspaper car· rlers, grocery clerks, cheerleaders, non-smokers ... etc . 

• 
Results GUARANTEED. 



~-----------------------------------------­
Thursday, November 16, 1989 
Three teams join 1990 World Cup field 
LONDON (AP) -Ireland, Austria, the Soviet Union and Romania clinched bnrths in the 1990 World Cup finals as the European qualifying section ended Wednesday. 
The Irish, managed by an Englishman who had World Cup success more than 20 years ago, reached the finals for the first time, sparking celebrations by hundreds of their fans. 
Two goals by John Aldridge gave Ireland a 2-0 victory over Malta and enabled the Irish to qualify from Group 6, along with standings leader Spain. The Spaniards capped a superb season by trouncing Hungary 4-0. 
There was joy, too, for Homania, which upset Dnnmark 3-1 to elinch Group 1 and join the finals in Italy. 
Austria also celebrated, as Tony Polster scored three goals in a 3-0 victory over East Germany. The victory earned the Austrians the runner-up spot in Group 3 and ousted the East Germans. 
Turkey, playing the other half of a Group 3 doubleheader, had to win or tie, and hope that Austria and East Germany also tied in order to reach the finals for the first time since 1954. 
But Turkey lost 2-0 to the Soviet Union and was eliminated, winding up in third place behind the Soviets, the group champions, and Austria. 
Denmark, which had scored 14 goals in going unbeaten in five games prior to Wednesday's showdown against Romania, scored first but then caved in and lost 3-1. 
The Danes, rebuilt following last year's dismal showing in the European Championships, now seem destined to miss the linals. 
The only way they could qualify is if either West Germany ties or loses to Wales, or if The Netherlands 
is  upset  by  Finland.  Both  
those Group 4 games  were  
held late Wednesday.  

The Irish. who reached their first European Championship finals last year, only needed a tie at Malta to gain a place in soccer's biggest showpiece tournament. 
Aldridge's goals, the second a penalty shot, delighted the Irish fans. 
Many of the fans had bmm delayed by fog in Dublin but arrived in time to see their team make soccer history under Jack Charlton. who was a member of England's 1966 World Cup-winning team. 
The Danes also only had to tie at Bucharest. and Flemming Poulsen put them ahead after only five minutes. 
But Homania rallind with goals by Gavrila Balint and loan Sabou to take a 2-1 halftime lead. Balint seor!'d again in the second half to the delight of a eapaeity crowd of :m.ooo. 
The result left Homania with nine points. one ahead of the Danes. 
At Vienna, Polster, the Austrian striker who plays in Spain for Seville, was the star. 
lie scored for the first time at two minutes. Polster made it 2-0 at the 21-minute mark, thrilling a capacity crowd of 60,000. 
Polster's third goal capped an emotional night for an Austrian team that had seemed in danger of missing the finals. 

is currently accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Day Editors 
For information, please contact Erin O'Neill at 239-5303 or 283-4215 
TO OUR TWO FAVORITE L YONETTES HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 
K.T. Meaney-BIG 18th! Heather L. Meaney -19 1/2! 
If you know which is which call them and tell them so! 

LOVE: DAD, MOM, & PAPA! 
Thursday, November 16, 1989 The Observer page 17 

History suggests that Irish could be suprised 
(AP)-Happy Valley hasn't than 17 points on them all year. been a happy place for Notre And they've got a great running Dame in the 1980s. back in Blair Thomas. His 
Notre Dame has lost all four performance against us two of its games at Penn State since years ago (214 yards on 35 the series resumed in 1981, carries) was as fine as I've ever including a 21-20 loss two seen." years ago when the Fighting Irish failed on a two-point Knee surgery forced Thomas conversion in the final minute. to sit out last season, but the 
Overall, the series is tied 6-6-senior tailback has come back 
1. Notre Dame's only win at strong, rushing for 1,077 yards Penn State took place all the in the Lions' first nine games. way back in 1913. when the Unfortunately, he's almost the Irish captain was a fellow entire Penn State offense. named Knute Rockne. Starting quarterback Tony 
Sacca is completing a pitiful 39 
But history won't be the main percent of his passes, and thing on Notre Dame's mind backup Tom Bill isn't much when it returns to Penn State bntter at 45 percent. Saturday. The top-ranked Irish need to beat the No. 17 Nittany The Lions· offensive Lions to keep alive their bid for weaknesses were apparent in a second straight national last week's 13-13 tie with championship. Maryland, a school they had 
beaten 24 straight times. But As usual, Coach Lou Holtz is so were their defensive acting like it will take a miracle strengths. And defense should for his team to win. decide Saturday's game, which figures to be a conservative, "Penn State is a great low-scoring affair in the late­
defensive football team," he afternoon chill at Beaver said. "Nobody has scored more Stadium. 
Kentucky could be singing the blues all season long 
LEXINGTON. Ky. (APl -happen anymore. We can just Deron Feldhaus and but declined an NCAA bid in starters and four returningTlwrn arc two ways to look at go out and have fun." Pelphrey and Feldhaus are protest after Cliff Hagan and reserves, plus two recruits and this Kentucky basketball They had better have a good hardly exceptional leapers. Frank Hamsey were declared four walk-ons. 
season: Off the court. the worst sense of humor. Some envision this team being ineligble for being graduate "Now I don't know what kind is over. On the court, the worst The sanctions include no live college basketball's version of students. of style you're used to around is yet to come. television coverage this year the Dallas Cowboys. Others That's the last time Kentucky here," Pitino told them, "but 
Either way, it adds up to a and no post-season play for have said that these Wildcats went two straight years we're going to run." second straight year of no two seasons -and probably will be fortunate to win as without a postseason The crowd cheered its postseason tournament, the not too many victories on the many games as their football tournament, either NCAA or approval, mindful that Adolphfirst time in 35 years that's basketball floor. counterparts on campus (6-3 NIT. Rupp made running and happened to the winningest Two starters transferred with two games left). Even Pitino, forever the winning a Kentucky tradition. program in college basketball rather than face life without Even Kentucky's No. 1 optimist, hasn't made any bold "I think everybody -the history -a distinction likely to the NCM tournament -center ranking as the winningest predictions on this season. fans, players, students, justdisappear in the process. LeBon Ellis to Syracuse and program with 1,464 victories is "It's a tradition with me to everybody -is glad the whole 
By the time the season ends forward Chris Mills to Arizona. in jeopardy. North Carolina is say we'll win and we'll win right NCAA thing is over because I March 5 against Notre Dame in Starting guard Sean Sutton only six wins behind, and when away," he said when he took think everybody was reallySouth Bend. Ind.. it may seem decided to sit out to recover the teams meet Dec. 27 at the job last June. worrying about what was goinglike a relief. from the turmoil season which Louisville, the Tar Heels could But there were no promises to happen," said guard Richie This could be a painful cost his father, Eddie Sutton, be ahead. when he added: "Whether that Farmer. "We're just happy that sPason for tlw Wildrats, one to his job as head coach. Still, it could have been means in terms of the losses we're going to be able to play." test the loyaltins of some of the That doesn't leave new coach worse. It could have no season and wins that show up, I'm not Pitino also has given all his sport's most fnvcrPd fans. Rick Pitino, who fled the NBA at all if the NCAA Committee on sure. I think Kentucky people players the green light to shoot This is thP first season aftPr New York Knicks, much to Infractions had recommended and all supporters of Kentucky 3-pointers, and he intends to 
tlw NCM imposed a three-year work with. that Kentucky receive the basketball, forgetting the use the same pressing defense probation for various The school that won its fifth "death penalty" for its score, will leave that arena that worked so well for his recruiting violations. and last NCAA championship violations. thinking that basketball team is Knicks and, before that, his 
"Everyone is just happy that with "Twin Towers" in 1978, The last season without a winner." Final Four team at Providence nvnrything is out of the way will rely on what you might call basketball at Kentucky was in Ah, but will they be able to College.
with the NCM," said forward "Triple Twigs" in 1989. The 1952-53, in the wake of a forget the score? Kentucky "We'll probably play a lot of Heggie Hanson. "We don't have tallest players are 6-foot-7 -point-shaving scandal. The next fans just aren't used to losing. close games," said sophmore to worry about what's going to Hanson, John Pelphrey and year, the Wildrats went 25-0 There had not been a losing forward Deron Feldhaus. "As 

THE FAMILY AND CAREER IN CONFLICT How tough is it to achieve both? 
Apanel discussion November 16, 1989 7:30p.m. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 

season in Lexington since 1927 
until last year. Then, hounded 
by the NCAA investigation and the loss of leading scorer Rex Chapman to the pros, the Wildcats suffered through the school's first losing season since 1927 at 13-19. 
How the fans will take to losing again is the question. So far the support has been there. 
Ticket manager Barbara Donnelly said there have been more ticket requests than ever, ana the usual overflow crowd of 9,500 showed up for the annual "Midnight Madness" start of practice. 
It was a curious crowd, to be sure. After all, the team includes only two returning long as we play as hard as we can, we can be happy." 
But, again, will work ethics satisfy fans raised on winning statistics? 
"I think they'll be forgiving as long as we play hard," Feldhaus said. "I think they'll be satisfied if we go out and play hard every game." 
Guard Derrick Miller believes the Wildcats were better than last season's record indicated and won't be as bad as some think this year. 
''I'm certain that cloud is out 

.from over our heads because it took a whole lot out of'us last season, especially the last two months," he said of the NCAA investigation. "It seemed like everything caught up with us." 
featuring... 
RIBS RIB TIPSBAR-B-QUE CHICKEN

Jamaican/American Cuisine Location: Comer of Main & Fifth Niles, Ml 683-3317 I 

~----~----~----­
page 18 The Observer Thursday, November 16, 1989 
Valdiserri elected to [ head new organization
~ 


I 
I Special to The Observer 
I 
I 
I HogP-r 0. ValdisP-rri, Associate I Athletic Dirnctor at Notre
I 
Dame, has been elected acting
I 
chairman of tlw Board of
I 
Directors of the National
I 
Association of Collegiate
I 
Marketing Administrators.
I I I 
The n1~wly-formed
I 
organization, with a
I 
membership that will consist of 
I 
people working in collegiate
I 
I marketing. promotions and I related fields, is an outgrowth I of discussions among a number I of interested college
I 
administrators. 

I I I "The proliferation, thrust and I impart of marketing and t 
promotional efforts andI programs on the collegiate level 
I 
in recent years have served to
t 
accelerate interest in an
I 
organization where
I I 
practitioners can exchange I ideas, formulate concepts and
Freshman running back Dorsey Levins turned in one of the top Irish performances in their lopsided victory 
I practices and establish
over the SMU Mustangs last Saturday. Dorsey rushed for 47 yards on 9 carries against Navy and six times 
I operating and ethical
for 59 yards against SMU. 

I 
I 
I I I 
Going on the road is never easy,-------­
I 
but Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz is
I 
especially worried that the itinerary of his trip to University Park, Pennsylvania is going to be detrimental to his team's performance Saturday at State College. 
The Irish have never won in four games at Beaw~r Stadium. In fact, Notre Dame hasn't won at Penn .... , 


State sinee 1913, when the Nittany Lions fell 14-7 in the first meeting between the two teams. The worst 
KEN

Irish loss in the series was a 36-6 shellacking administered in 1985 by 
TYSIAC 

a Penn State team that was ranked number-one in the nation. 
This year, the Irish enter this Football rivalry with the number-one Notebook ranking, but Holtz fears that distractions will be at a premium ------­for his team when they stay overnight Friday at State College. 
"The one place you have to stay (at Penn State) has an awful lot of well wishers," says Holtz with tongue planted firmly in cheek. "It's just very hard to isolate your football team away from the crowd. We've been able to do that at most places we have played." 
Holtz fears that these conditions could spell disaster for Notre Dame. 
"We probably have less Notre Dame fans at that (Beaver) Stadium than any other stadium that we play in. I do think it's important for us to be able to cheek ofT {at the line of scrimmage)." 
I I 
Holtz concerned that Happy Valley could bring sadness 
Questions 
continued from page 20 

Is there any reason to think defensive coordinator Barry­Alvarez will not get head coaching offers in the off­season? (Better yet, is there any reason to think that the tight wads who set the athletic standards." Valdisnrri said. "TIH• aetivitins of tlw organization also will go a long way in Plnvaling tlw profpssion of collegiate sports marketing and promotions administrators. 
The organization is mad1• up of nwmbnrs from institutions at all NCAA divisional lewis, as well as from NAJA and NJCAA institutions. The l'leetion of the first full slate of ol'fiePrs and 
din~ctors  will  takl'  placl'  at  
NACMA's  initial  llli'Pling  in  
Dallas on .January 4.  

ValdisNri pr<~snntly snrvl's as chairman of tlw NCAA Communications Committee as well as chairman of tlw NCAA Women's Basketball Television Committee. lie is past president of the Coll1~gc Sports Information Directors of America and is a m1~rnbl'r of that organization's board of directors. lin has served on tlw NCAA Final Four Coordinating Committee for the past 10 years. 
After watching films of the Nittany Lions playing 
in Beaver Stadium, lloltz appears to be concerned 
that the Penn State players will try to goad the 
crowd into drowning out Tony Riee's signals at the 
line of scrimmage. 
"I don't think that the Penn State players should 
or will incite the crowd by waving their arms when 
we have the football," he warns, "I don't think Joe 
Paterno will let them do that." 
Penn State has been called "Linebacker U." for 
good reason. Paterno has turned out many 
outstanding linebackers in the past, including Shane 
Conlan, who now stars for the Buffalo Bills. and 
former Pittsburgh Steeler great Jack Ham. But it is 
interesting to note that no Penn State player has 
ever won the Butkus Award, whieh is presented an­
nually to the top linebacker in the country. 
This year's linebacking torch bearer, senior Andre Collins, may change all that. A finalist for this year's Butkus Award, Collins leads the Lions with 46 solo tackles and 99 total stops. 
Penn State coach Joe Paterno says Collins is "as good a linebacker as we've had here, if not the best. We've not had a kid who's done so many different things-block punts, run the show, be the soul of the defensive football team. Collins plays on all the punting teams in addition to every down on defense." 
The Irish reserve who turned the most heads during runaway victories over Navy and SMU the past two weekends has to be freshman tailback Dorsey Levens. Levens rushed for 47 yards on 9 carries against the Middies and carried 6 times for 59 yards versus the Mustangs. 
"I think Dorsey Levens is really eoming along." praises Holtz. "lie's run well with the football, but I'll tell you what. he is blocking very well. liP has played very well without the football." 
Some scouts had touted Levens as the best freshman in the northeast eoming out of high schooL Since he went to high school in Syracusl', New York, it was expected that L1wcns would attend Syracuse University and join eoach Diek MacPherson's Orangemen . 
"Syracuse reeruited me hard since my sophomore year of high school, so they wern pretty upset wlwn I decided to come here," said Lnvins."But Notre Danw really has the best combination of academies and athleties in the country, so I decided to come here." 
Irish nose taekle Chris Zorich was recently asked if he had thought about the possibility of winning the lfeisman Trophy. Although Zorich frequently an­swers questions about the lleisman hopes of teammates Tony Rice and Raghib Ismail. this one threw him for a loss. 
"Heisman?" he sputtered incredulously, "I haven't even thought about that!" 
Zorich will not win the lleisman this year. of course, but there is a good possibility that he could win the Outland Trophy this year as college football's best lineman. 
"As far as the Outland award goes, I think it's a very awesome award and it's very prestigious, but I set up some goals before the season started,"said Zorich." I wanted us to be a very good defensive team and I wanted to hopefully lead the team to a National Championship. I haven't thought about any particular awards or All-America or any of that stuff." 
salaries will attempt to keep Alvarez?) 
Notre Dame Student Government
Doesn't the first round of 
Intellectual Committee presents
Bookstore Basketball start the week after Thanksgiving? 
How many students will stick around for Valpo, Lafayette and Butler during Christmas break? 

VVhatever happened to the 
THURSDAY NOVEMBER 16 
days of Prairie View A&M and 
7:00p.m.
Hardin-Simmons? Any answers? 

Montgomery Theatre at LaFortune Student Center "TheArab-Iraeli Conflict: An Israeli Perspective" 


Lecture by ProfessorAlan Dowty, from the Government and International Studies Department at Notre Dame. Professor Dowty taught in the International Relations Department at Hebrew University in Jerusalem from 1963-1975and also served as chairman ofthe department. 

APWORKS 
Attention 
Off Campus Students 
United Way reps will be collecting off campus this year. 

Please be generous. Give to United Way. 


Thursday, November 16, 1989 
The Observer page 19 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
9 a.m. -5 p.m. University Libraries Book Sale, Hesburgh Library Concourse. 
4 p.m. Lecture, "Recent Economic and Political Changes in Poland: A Personal View," Donald Critchlow, NO Asso­ciate Professor of History. Room 131 Decio. Sponsored by ND Kellogg Institute and Committee for West European Studies. 
6 p.m. Presentation and Reception for MBA students in­ten~sted in discovering career opportunities with Ford Motor Company. Alumni Senior Club. 
6 p.m. Presentation and Reception for students inter­ested in discovering career opportunities with Deloitte and Touche. Upper Lounge, University Club. 
7 p.m. Lecture, "The Arab-Israeli Conlict: An Israeli Per­spective" Professor Alan Dowty of the University of Notre Dame. World Awareness: Middle East Week. 
7 p.m. Presentation and Reception for students inter­ested in discovering career opportunities with Gallo Win­ery. Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center. 
8 p.m. Lecture Galvin Auditorium. "The Boundary Be­tween Solvable and Nonsolvable Problems," Julia Knight, Department of Mathematics. Part of the Distinguished Scholar Series. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 

BBQ Ribs Baked Cajun Cod I lot Pastrami Sandwich Vineyard Veg w/ Cheese 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


29 Kind of tape 50 Caspian feeder 30 Catch 'em at 53 Kind of flu Penn. 
55 Like Pisa's tower 33 Lincoln's in-laws 
57 Three-base hits: 34 Vertebral parts Abbr. 36 Kind of stove 59 Norms: Abbr. 40 Actress 60 O.T.B. wager 
Swenson et al. 61 Winglike part 41 Me. city 62 Tennis stroke 42 Seoul G.l. 64 Nero's 52 43 Assam silkworm 65 Ganoid fish 46 Marker, for short 66 Step on it 47 Colloid 67 Essay 
ACROSS 
1 In a different form 
5 Bandleader Fields et al. 10 Ointment settler 13 Horne from Brooklyn 14-firma 
15 Kind of market 
16 Range's spot for an item off the shelf 
18 Chess piece 19 One: Ger. 
20 "Town Without -," 1961 film 
22 Cow catcher 
25 N.FL three-pointers 
52 Alaskan island 53 Brushwork? 54 Movie director 
Walsh 56 Assault boats 58 Exam for a 
high-school jr. 60 It's off Java 63 Range's burning 
jet 68 N.C. college 69 Former Secy. of 
Defense 70 Simba's den 71 The dinner 
check 72 Agitated states 73 It contains three 
pips 
DOWN 

1 Priest's robe 2 Schoolteachers' 
org. 3 Ref. book 4 Rouses 5 Daze 6 Breed of 
white-faced cattle 1 Sea eagle a Attends Deerfield 9 Rani's garb 

1 o Foil i es producer Ziegfeld 11 Zodiacal sign 12 Chatter 
27 Discarded cards: Fr. 31 Scrap 32 Warehouse function: Abbr. 34 Comics' Smokey 35 Oliver, for one 37 Mouth: Comb. form 38 Araceous plants 
39 Flapjack's kin done on the range 
42 Send back 
44 Household deity 
45 Large swallow 
48 Denizens of 
Sumatra 49 A son of Isaac 51 Sock part 
15 Saute specialists on the range 17 Life stories. for short 21 Tropical fish 22 Colonel Blimp's creator 23 Constellation 24 Marks of infamy 
26 Chef who's at home on the range 
28 With-(in the hope of) 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
lo\OM P,~O Df\D WOOT BE TOO 
\.1(>.f'P'l p.BoJT 71//S. HO SIR. 
WILBUR AND WENDEL 
I CAN'T BUIUf THA-T 
LV~ 1\lb E l I $ A HuI'1A ~ • LOOt<IIHn SPAC~ N6R'D ~ctJT OfoJ <.-.JOK'LD cotJ· 
QUE:S11 13UT THE' cvHI<L Y 6-1 LoBe-SAt D lftt'('f'U: f+MON(n U 5 
DAD W\U. \.1~~E Tt BJLT M~  
BEO 1\:l \1-\E C£.\l\1-lG -10N\GI{\. At--~0 MoM W\U. 11.,_~ I  \1-1\S IS <30\NEr TO \5£.  
1\:l SIM-ID aN ~ Slt.PLM>~R  ;  \1-\E MO'S\ FVN ['IJE  
1\:l 1-\f..NO I'll£ OINNER.  i0  E.IJER \-\1\D!  

JAY HOSLER 

HeY, WfN DE:L, WH ARf YoU VP TO IO!HT NOw? 




Sports 
Thuffiday, November16, 1989 
Flannery's versatility is crucial to Irish defense 
The 6-3. 25:-l pound
By KEN TYSIAC 

Lakmvood, Ohio nativl' ranks
Sports Writer 

13th on tlw team with 17 
If versatility and taekles, and turked away tlw unselfishness were the top first interception of his carer~r criteria used in judging football this past Saturday against SMU players. senior defensive tackle in his last game at Notm Dame Bryan f'lannery would be Stadium. But Flannery is tlw second to none on the Irish quintessential t1~am player, and team. individual statistics don't seem 
Although Flannery doesn't to exdt!' him too much. start for the Irish. he is the top ''I'm just happy to bf' part of backup at each of tlw thren the team and to help out in any defensive line positions and has way I can," said logged quite a bit of playing Flanrwry."Obviously our team's time throughout the season. bePn playing well, so I'm 
"Bryan's number one satisfied. but I'll bl' morn leadership quality is that he's a satisfi!'d if we (the seniors) go very unselfish JWrson," says out as winrwrs. Irish assistant roach John Af'tPr his football earPPr is Palermo. who supervises the ovPr. 1-"lannnry plans to usP his offensive line. "lie has the dPgrPe in Sodology to PntPr capability to play all thn~e into polities in tlw CIPwland positions on the line, but if he an~a. liP says that lw is not concentrated on just orw, he banking on tlw adrnittPdly "wry might be able to crack into the outside duuH·r-" that lw might starting lirwup. To me, he's still have an opportunity to play considMnd a starter." professional (iJOthafl. Instead. 
"Bryan is just a good he says hP is looking forward fundamental football player," to thP n~ality which is bound to continues Palermo. "lin has set in after graduation. excellent football s!'ns!L His Says PaiNmo, "Bryan is vPry only weaknesses are that he's articulate and exceptionally not 6-5, he doesn't weigh 280 inlldligent. I think Bryan pounds. and he doesn't run the 
see liLANNERY page 16
40 yard dash in 4.8 seconds." 
NEW YOHK (AP) -Bret Dennis Eckersley of Oakland lie allowed more than three earned runs just three times in
Sabnrhagen of the Kansas City and Gregg Olson of Baltimore, 
Hoyals won his seeond Cy the AL Rookie of the Year, got 35 starts and not once in his fi­
Young Award in four years on three points each and Jeff nal 14. In his six losses, the 
Wednesday, beating Oakland's Hussell of Texas got one. Hoyals were shut out three 
times and scored one run twice.
Dave Stewart with ease. 

Saberhagen, who won the Cy Saberhagen is 92-61 in six 
Saberhagen. a 25-yfmr-old Young in 1985, led the majors seasons with Kansas City. He right-hander who went 23-6, in victories, earned-run average was 20-6 in 1985, then went on got 27 of 28 first-place votes (2.16). winning percentage two piteh two complete games from a panel of the Baseball (.79:{), complete games (12) as the Hoyals beat the St. Louis Writers Association of America and innings (262 1-3). He threw Cardinals in the World Series. and one sm~ond for 138 points. four shutouts, three three-hit­lie is the fourth pitcher to 
ters and two four-hitters. win the AL Cy Young Award Stewart. the Most Valuable more than once. Denny McLain Player of thP World SPries, got Kansas City was 29-6 in his (1968-69), Jim P<ilmcr (1973­
the other first-place vote, 24 starts and he beat every club in 75-76) and Hoger Clemens seconds and three thirds for 80 the league at least once. But (1986-87) did it previously. points. Mike Moore. his team­perhaps his most impressive Saberhagen has lowest EHA for mat!~ on the World Series statistic was that he won 20 of an AL Cy Young winner since champion Oakland Athlf~tics, his final 22 decisions. lie was Palmer 1975, when Palmer's 
• 
AP Photo 
EHA was 2.09.

was third with 10 points, fol­6-1 in September with a 0.98 The 25-year old Bret Saberhagen won the 1989 American League Cy
lowed by Bert Blyleven of EHA. lie allowed eight runs in Stewart failed to win the Cy 
Young Award. The Kansas City Royal's pitcher boasted a 23-6 record
California with nine and Nolan his last 80 innings and had a Young despite winning 20 
during the 1989 season. Oakland's Dave Stewart placed second,
Hyan of Texas with live. streak of 31 consecutive innings games for the third consecutive .Jpff Ballard of Baltimore, without an earned run. season. 
receivinq one-place vote . 
Have you ever really pondered over 'something' ••••? 
It just goes to show you that 
Is it too bold to predict that Irish men's tennis Jordan four or five shots to put thn ball in tho hole, 
it's always something. coach Bob Bayliss will win the NCAA Championship do you think hn would make thn millions he dons?) Who's Tony Brooks? by 1995? Whatever happened to the Crab Bowl'? If 7-0 is a skunk and 11-1 is a Who's Michael Stonebreaker? If SMU doesn't win the national title in three 
whitewash in ping pong, why Isn't there something missing in college football years, isn't there something wrong with America? don't the same rules .apply to vol­without Jimmy Johnson? In all honesty. what do cheerleaders eontributn to leyball? Why is it that every major collegiate star seems to sport on any level? (If you can't get excited about a 
Aren't you sick of hearing have a rags-to-riches story? big sporting event on your own, then you aren't about Bo Jackson? When will anyone realize the positive contributions breathing the air of planet earth.) 
Love him or hate him. can any­Digger Phelps has made to Notre Dame and the Don't there seem to be shades of 1987 creeping in. one argue that Indiana's Bob Greg Guffey men's basketball program? when Notre Dame lost its last three games of the Knight is not the dominant col-Assistant Sports If you could invite anyone to your house for din­season? lege bashtball coach of the Editor ner, wouldn't you ask the guy who stands on the Who's Gef'ry Faust? 1980s? --------field to signal television timeouts? (Imagine the con­Why are there seemingly rriore ushers than fans at 
Why is it that volleyball players slap hands more versation: "Then there was a change of possession many Irish sporting contests? times in one match than most teams do in a season? and I waddled onto the field. Then the commercial Wouldn't you like to throw a bucket of pucks at 
Does anyone really think Mike Tyson will legiti­ended and I went back to the sidelines.") that brat who gives away pucks during Notre Dame mately complete the requirements for a degree at If we were going to the Citrus Bowl, would fans hockey games? Central State University? throw oranges or grapefruits on the field? Better Will we ever know the truth about the Minnesota 
Is there any better player for your money than yet, would anyone care? scandals? Boston's Larry Bird? Am I stupid in believing Digger when he says Is there anyone happier with his job than the zam­
Why do people, namely those at the Notre Dame­Notre Dame will be in Denver next March? boni man? Israel game, insist on mixing politics with collegiate What is it about golf that qualifies it as a sport? sports? (Hit the ball. Chase the ball. If it took Michael see QUESTIONS/ page 18 
The Observer/Steve Moskop 
Senior Defensive tackle Brian Flannery is an integral part of Notre Dame's dominant defensive line. Flannery is the top backup for the Irish at three defensive positions. 
Kansas City's Saberhagen tops A's Stewart for AL Cy Young Award 
Royals' ace captures second Cy Young in four years 











