
VOL. XXIII NO. 56 TUESDAY , NOVEMBER 21, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
More than 200,000 protest in Czechoslovakia 
PHAGUE, Czechoslovakia (AP) -More than 200,000 people filled the streets of Prague on Monday, demanding free elec­tions and the resignation of the hard-line leader in the largest protest ever in this Communist nation. 
For the first time in decades, major protests involving tens of thousands of citizens also broke out in other cities, state­run Czechoslovak TV said. 
The protests posed the great­est threat to date to the rigid model of Communist govern­ment that has prevailed here since a Soviet-led invasion crushed the "Prague Spring" reform movement in 1968. 
Czechoslovak TV said at least 200,000 people took part in the march in the capital. It also re­ported 20,000 protesters in the city of Brno, 10,000 in Bratislava and 5,000 in Liberec. 
"Freedom!" and "End to one party rule!" cried the demon­strators in Prague. Their protest began with a few hun­dred people in central Wences­las Square and turned into a triumphal march for democ­racy, accompanied by the clanging of bells from sympa­thetic trolley-car drivers. By­standers jangled their keys in solidarity. 
From Wenceslas Square, the protesters set out for Hradcany 
Murders horrify, but do not surprise priests 
By JOHN FISHER 
News Writer 
Jesuit priests and other members of the Notre Dame n~ligious community expressed their horror at the murder of six Jesuits in El Salvador. 
"It's an abomination; it's horrible. It's a symptom of the 
• 
Churches hit by crackdown/ page 5 

• 
House does not cut U.S. aid/ page 4 

• 
Offensive both helped and hurt rebels I page 4 


instability of that area," said Father Richard McCormick, a Jesuit priest residing on cam­pus and a professor of Chris­tian ethics. 
Although many said they were horrified. none were sur­prised about the killings. All said they felt that the killings were the result of the death squads associated with the rightist faction in El Salvador, which had threatened assassi­nations before. 
"My first reaction was, 'Oh no. it's finally happened,"' Fa-
Group trips to Mexico by students banned 

By SANDRA WIEGAND 
News Writer 
Group trips to Mexico by students have been banned by Student Affairs. said Stu­dent Union Board Director of Programming Mike Ilough at the Student Senate meeting last night. 
Problems dealing with the language barrier. personal health, cost, and personal safety and security led to the ban. 
The Student Union Board (SUB) had planned a trip to Acapulco during spring break. Hough expressed dis· satisfaction that SUB had not been consulted or in­volved in any of the discus­sions Student Affairs had regarding the trip. 
Raja Singh, board man­ager of SUB, said he felt that potential problems with the trip could have been ther Drew Christiansen, also a Jesuit, said. summing up the feelings of expectation many in the Jesuit community felt previ­ous to the murders. Despite the constant threat on the mission­aries' lives, and the murders that have occurred, Chris­tiansen said that the Jesuits will not leave El Salvador. 
"I don't know what kind of 
instructions they've gottenfrom Rome, but...they're very committed to the people. They've been persecuted many 
times, and some have been killed before ... They're willing to do what they have to do keep the Gospel in that situation," he said. 
Father Terry Coonan was a missionary in Chile and has visited El Salvador. He is also one of the organizers of last night's prayer service and vigil in Pasquerilla West. He has seen the governments of South and Central America's actions against missionaries firsthand. 
"Anyone who was speaking on behalf of the poor, that was placing their life on the line, there was a tremendous amount of intimidation and the 
Ida Sandoval and Annemarie Benson participate in Monday night's prayer vigil held for the six Jesuit priests 
see JESUITS 1page 4 killed in El Salvador last Thursday, story left. 
avoided through careful 
planning if SUB had been 
involved in the discussion. 

Singh said that although 
he agreed that certain parts 
of Mexico might be better 
avoided. he felt the trip 
could have been arranged in 
such a way that neither the 
language barrier nor threat 
of personal harm would be 
problems. 

Director of Student Ac­tivities Joe Cassidy said that the decision to ban travel to Mexico was made indepen­dent of SUB's plans for spring break. 
"The discussion actually started when the senior class contracted their trip to Cancun." he said. 
Senate members ques­tioned the Jud~ement of Stu· dent Affairs in bannhtg trips <:; to Mexico only. rather than Castle, a national symbol and the residence of President Gus­tav Husak. They were blocked by police barriers and later dispersed peacefully after a three-hour march. 
"It's the end, Milos!" the demonstrators shouted, refer­ring to Communist Party chief Milos Jakes. To fellow Czechoslovaks, they chanted, "Stop being afraid!" 
Jakes responded by warning the demonstrators not to go too far. 
"Any attempts to disrupt so­cial and political stability ... can only seriously threaten the im­plementation of necessary change and bring the society into a crisis with unforeseeable consequences," the 6 7 -year-old leader said on television. 
In a sharp break with usual practice, the television devoted extensive coverage to the demonstrations, and the official news agency CTK and Czechoslovak radio reported the protesters' demands for free elections. 
Some of the protesters car­ried banners reading "Red murderers to court" -a refer­ence to the alleged death of mathematics student Martin Smid. Dissidents say Smid was killed Friday by police, but the government called reports of the death "an unfounded ru­mor." 
The demonstrators also sup­ported a general strike called by students and artists for Nov. 27. 
Monday's demonstrations in Czechoslovakia were the latest signs of political unrest sweep­ing Eastern Europe. 
More than 100,000 demon­strators took to the streets in the East German city of Leipzig to press for free elections and an end to the Communist monopoly on power. Commu­nist Party chief Egon Krenz met with an envoy from Bonn in talks expected to focus on fi­nancial aid. 


to foreign countries in gen­eral. 
Also at the senate meeting, Student Body Vice President Dave Kinkopf said that a claim center has been set up in Room 108 of LaFortune Student Center for students who lost clothing in the Saint Michael's fire. 
Kinkopf said that he was informed by Jim Lyphout, assistant vice president for Business Affairs, that if.the computer records were dis­covered to be intact, stu­
dents would not have to .fill out claim forms in order to be reimbursed. 
He said students have the same guidelines for reimbursement that apply when a student's laundryis.. damaged or lost Michael's. which student 6() percent item's estimated value. 
·.·.M::::::::··::· 

Pentagon faces very heavy spending cuts 
WASHINGTON (AP) -De­fense Secretary Dick Cheney, spurred by reforms in Eastern Europe and fiscal pressures at home, on Monday analyzed "worst-case scenario" budget cuts that could include a $20 billion slash in projected spending for the 1991 fiscal year, sources said. 
Cheney, in more than four hours of conferences with the Pentagon's civilian leadership, the chiefs of the Army, Navy and Air Force, and Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen. Colin Powell, also reviewed the military's suggestio.ns for dealing with his orders to· cut spending by $180 billion between 1992-'94, other sources said. 
The long-range cutbacks are thought to be the most painful considered by Pentagon leaders since the end of the Vietnam War. 
They envision possibly closing as many as 15 Air Force bases; cutting back five Air Force fighter wings; stretching out the purchase of the B-2 stealth bomber; mothballing the Navy's 
see DEFENSE I page 6 


Last Issue 
This is the last issue of The Observer before Thanksgiv­ing break. The staff of The Observer wishes everyone a happy Thanksgiving.· The Observer will resume publi­cation Tuesday, Nov. 28. 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Be thankful; ND is bringing 


class to Miami 
It's RO degrees in 

Miami. And a. thi• 
i 


t~~:~:::~·:::~: .
j > 
to spend Thanksgiv-Christine Walsh 

ing away from my . . 
family? Miami. After Assistant News Edttor all, 'tis the season to--------­be thankful, that we're Number One, and they're not. Blatantly displayed on the top of the sports section of The Miami Hurricane, 
Miami's daily campus newspaper, there is a 

countdown to the Notre Dame-Miami game. 
It's called 'The Notre Dame Watch,' and 

just one glance at the paper tells you that 
those folks down there are ready -and 
waiting. 
It's "Catholics vs. Convicts II," as one T­
shirt puts it. It's a warmup for the Orange 
Bowl. It's a battle between the forces of 
good and evil, say others. The Hurricanes 
would like us to think simply that "this is 
it." 
But the Notre Dame-Miami game is none 
of these things. It is a chance to escape the 
arctic wonderland that is South Bend, to 
enjoy some sun and warm weather for a 
change, get a tan, have a grand old time ­
and beat Miami. 
The Hurricanes, you may think, have the 

edge in this game. They have the home-field 
advantage. They have dumped that other 
coach. They have their "Notre Dame 
Watch. "This is the moment they have been 
waiting for ever since that fateful 31-30 

loss in a certain famed stadium under the 
golden dome, and they're psyched. 
And, they have The Hate Factor. 
What advantage do we have? We are ND. 
No, we haven't had "The Miami Watch" at 

the top of every sports section since last year's victory, or the home-field advantage. What we do have is class. 
Miami's home-field advantage is negligible once we consider the flocks of Domers heading South for the holiday. This is simply more than a game: it's the Miami game. This is a rivalry sure to go down in history, and we're all a part of it, whether we're making the pilgrimage down to the game site, or parked in front of a wide-screen TV with 20 of our closest friends in Illinois. 
This is the Notre Dame spirit. This is football in its purest form. 
Moreover, this is our chance to show the country that for once and for all, we are indisputably Number One, that we can face any challenge and come up with a victory. 
Buy your tickets for the Orange Bowl now because the Irish are coming to Miami, and we're not leaving until this dispute is set­tled. 
Wherever you watch the game, remember that regardless of the outcome (no matter how many points we win by). we can say that we played a hard game and played it with class. And for that we can be thankful. 
Ihe Obset:Ver~­
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471 Tuesday's Staff: 
News 
Sports Systems
Tim O'Keefe Ken Tysiac Gilbert Gomez 
Janice O'Leary Steve Megargee Michael Gargiulo 
Accent 
Production Irish Extra Colleen Cronin Kathy Gliwa Theresa Kelly Stephanie Snyder Cheever Griffin Joe Zadrozny 
Alison Cocks Ad Design
Vlewpoln1 
Shannon RoachMolly Schwartz Val PolettoKim Skiles Meg Callahan 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) •s publ•shed Mpnday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacat•on penods The Observer IS a member of the Assoc•ated Press All reproduc11on nghts are reserved 
The Observer Tuesday, November 21, 1989 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Tuesday, November 21. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1989 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
0 A Exxxj
® © ~ ~ m 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Forecast: 
Decreasing cloudiness and cold today with a 40 percent chance of morn­ing snow showers. Highs in the middle 30s. In­creasing cloudiness tonight and cold. Lows in the middle to upper 20s. Cloudy and cold Wednesday with a 50 percent chance of snow showers. Highs in the upper 30s. Colder Thanksgiving with a chance of snow showers. Highs near 30. 
Yesterday's high: 53 
Yesterday's low: 41 
Nation's high: 89 
(Anaheim, Calif.) 
Nation's low: 4 
(Gunnison, Colo.) 

OF INTEREST 
A Thanksgiving dinner for students will be held at Of Interests may be submitted to The Observer office the North and South Dining Halls from 4:45 to 6:45 p.m. on the third floor of Lal-'ortune betwenn 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. on Tuesday, Nov. 21. weekdays. Of Interests are free, one-time events of intnr­
est to the student body in gPneral. 
WORLD 
An emissary from West Germany met with East The House of Commons makes its television de­German leaders Monday and said the Communist Party but today with lights, cameras but only some of the ac­may lose its constitutionally guaranteed monopoly on tion. A strict code has been laid down to save the Mother power as early as next year. Nearly 100,000 of East of Parliaments from making an unsnemly spectacle of Germany's 16.5 million people have resettled in West herself. Some say the restrictions on what the cameras Germany since Nov. 1 and 275,000 so far this year. More may show amount to censorship. The parties have held than 400,000 people demonstrated in several cities for training sessions to advise their members how to dress rapid reform and free elections. and speak on television. 
NATIONAL 
The State Department in Washington D.C. on Monday canceled a visit by a high-level official from Czechoslovakia and condemned the use of force by police against peaceful demonstrators in Prague. Margaret Tutwiler, the department's spokeswoman, said the police actions were "in sharp contrast to other East European countries who are beginning to respond to the wishes of their people." 
A wave of panic that was one of the key events of the French Revolution was probably triggered by peasants who ate bread made from rye wheat infected with a hallucinogenic fungus, Mary Matossian, an associate professor of history at the University of Maryland, contends. The fungus, ergot, has been linked in previous studies with waves of panic that led to witch trials in parts of Europe and in colonial Massachusetts in the 17th century. 
CAMPUS 

Enrollment for the 1989 fall semester at the University of Notre Dame totaled 10,035, the first time it has gone beyond the 10,000 mark, according to a report prepared by the registrar's office. Undergraduates totaled 7,673. Post-baccalaureate students numbered 2,484. Graduate school enrollment was 1,596. Law student totaled 542 and graduate business students, 346. 
INDIANA 

The Indianapolis Colts will draw more than 10,000 kids to the Hoosier Dome today to give them an important message: Leave drugs alone. Eight Colts players will debut a new anti-drug rap song, titled "Leave it Alone," for middle school students from eight central Indiana counties. More than 200 buses will transport students rally. 
A new ultrasound cancer treatment developed by researchers in Indiana and Illinois has been approved by the federal government. This approval means the ultra­sound device may now be manufactured and sold to hospitals across the country and around the world. The treatment will make it easier to cure deeper tumors. 
A claim center for losses from last week's St. Michael's laundry fire has been established in Hm. 108 LaFortune Student Center. Anyone who believes they lost articles of clothing in the Nov. 16 lire should file a claim at the center. The center will be open today from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. It will be open the week following Thanksgiving break, from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. For further information, call 
239-7802. 

MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for November 20, 1989 

VoJume in shares 
128.17 Million 
NYSE Index 188.03 .0. 1.25 S&P Composite n 339.35 v 2.26 Dow Jones Industrials 2,632.04 {720.62 
Precious Metals Gold \! $3.50 to $398.20 I oz. 
Silver \! 1.6¢ to $5.688 I oz. 
Source: AP 
ALMANAC 

On November 21 : e In 1877: Inventor Thomas Edison announced the invention of his phonograph, which he dubbed a "talking machine." 
e In 1922: Hebecca Felton of Georgia was sworn in as the first woman in the U.S. Senate. 
e In 1973: President Nixon's attorney, J. Fred Buzhardt, re­vealed the presence of an 18 1/2-minute gap in one of the White House tape recordings related to Watergate. 
e In 1980: 87 people died in a fire at the MGM Grand hotel­casino in Las Vegas. 
Tuesday, November 21, 1989 The Observer page 3 
Ryan named 'honored life patron' of library 

St. Michael's Laundry now boasts natural air-conditioning and a new sunroof after the fire that destroyed it last Thursday. 
Gordon: Oswald did not kill JFK 
fired at John Kennedy. The nized crime involvement in John 
By KATIE MOORE 
Warren Committee stated only Kennedy's assassination. As to
News Writer 
whether the case will ever be showed, with the assistance of solved, Gordon said, "I'm in one three shots were fired. Gordon 
"l do not believe that Lee Harvey Oswald fired a extensive film coverage, at least of those periods where I think we still have a ray of hope." 
shot,"said John Gordon, an ex­five shots were fired. 
Robert Kennedy's assassina­pert on the assassinations of Gordon also said he disagrees tion is also an unsolved casePresident John F. Kennedy and with the Warren Committee's which Gordon said should beRobert F. Kennedy, in his lec­report which named Oswald as investigated more extensively.

ture at Saint Mary's last night. the only assassin. Interviews Gordon said the security guard
with witnesses and film exami­
Gordon examined the assas­who was assisting Robert
nation assisted Gordon in 
sination of John Kennedy in de­Kennedy at the time of his
proving there were at least two 
tail and provided a number of shooting is a prime suspect. 
gunmen positioned in front of 
conclusions which contradict The security guard, Thane
John Kennedy.and possibly two 
the findings of the Warren Cesar, was seen shooting his 
gunmen located behind him. 
Committee. gun from behind Robert
Gordon said he believes Oswald 
Kennedy four times, but he has 
was not one of these gunmen. 
The most drastic conflict never been interrogated. Gor­Gordon revealed was in the Gordon said there may have don said, "This case could be number of shots which were been possible CIA and orga-reopened tomorrow." 
Special to the Observer 
John Hyan Jr., University of Notre Dame trustee emeritus, has been named honored life patron of the University of Notre Dame Libraries by the Friends of the Library. 
lie and his wife, Irene, were honored Tuesday Nov. 14 at the Library's dedication of North­western Online Total Integrated System (NOTIS), a computer­based library system developed at Northwestern University. Hyan enabled Notre Dame Li­braries to acquire NOTIS in 1987 with funds from the Irene O'Brien Ryan endowment fund, which he established at the University in honor of his wife. 
According to Robert Miller, director of University Libraries, more than $1.7 million was spent on activities to fully au­tomate the University Libraries system. 
In addition to acquiring NO­TIS, automation of the libraries included the purchase of an IBM 4381 main frame computer and a network of terminals distributed among the llesburgh Library, the law li­brary and various campus branch libraries. 
By January, 1988, the li­braries' staff had completed automation of the libraries catalog. Named UNLOC (University of Notre Dame Li­braries Online Catalog), the catalog can be accessed through any library terminal or on a dial-in basis from other campus terminals or personal computers with modems. 
Users can search the comput­erized catalog by author, sub­ject, title or partial title. 
During the summer of 1988, the libraries' staff began work on what Miller likes to refer to as the "great bar-coding pro­ject." Optically scannable bar­codes, similar to the Universal Product Code barcodes found on most grocery products, were applied to more than 600,000 library volumes. 
With the barcoded checkout system, library users present a barcoded identification card and the barcoded item they wish to borrow. Both are scanned by an optical wand and checkout is complete, a vast improvement over filling out a separate card with call number, title and user information for each borrowed item. 
Also with this system, circu­lation information can be in­cluded in UNLOC. Library users now can tell whether an item is charged out, is on the shelf or does not circulate outside the library. 
Ryan was an active Notre Dame trustee for fifteen years, between 1967 and 1982. He is chairman of the board of Mine Safety Appliances Co. in Pitts­burgh, Penn. 
He received his bachelor's de­gree in 1934 from Pennsylvania State University and his M.B.A. in 1936 from Harvard. In 1973, he was awarded an honorary doctor of laws by Notre Dame. 
He and Mrs. Ryan also have established the Irene O'Brien Ryan Endowed University Col­lection in Fine Arts, the largest of endowed collections in the University Libraries. 

Calllpus Ministry and You 


(N0PUS

------------------------M.INISW-



For This Is Thanksgiving Day! 
Over the river and through the woods is no longer the path to grandmother's house. She lives in a condo by the malL No horse leads the way; it's bumper to bumper. Yet Thanksgiving is still celebrated. The meal remains traditional, although the sentiment might not. 
As we've gotten slightly more honest about the ways our country was settled, it could seem a bit smug to allow gratitude to be the primary sentiment expressed November 23rd. The Native Americans among us might consider reconciliation to be at least as appropriate an expression. 
It would be narrow indeed to approach Thanksgiving with the same notion that national leaders will probably approach it. (Why not? Every other national leader has): We're· the greatest country; our voice is the voice of democracy and must by heard in the midst of world chaos; God Bless the US of A. 
But our gratitude is not at its best if it is given in such narrow categories. When we express it that way we become like the Pharisee who prayed: "Thank you God, that I am not like the rest of your creation." 
We are a great country, but only so far as countries go. Democracy is a great form of government (not our form, though -we're a republic), but only so far as forms of government go. 
Still, God bless us indeed. We do receive God's blessings. Our primary gratitude might well be for gifts freely given, in no way earned by ourselves. And as we do nothing to earn them, we are made nothing great in our own right for receiving them. 
Thus, no smugness is warranted. We are not 

made better by any blessings given by God. 
Nothing about us, good or bad -earned us God's 
gifts. Those gifts are not proof that we are in any 
way better than those who haven't received them; 

a gift is proof of the goodnes of the giver who gives 
freely and without demand of return. 
So -for what might we be grateful this Thanksgiving Day? That God has unconditionally blessed (loved) us. 
That we have opportunities to respond to that love, by sharing it selflessly with others, especially those who are not used to receiving it and won't give much back to us for sharing love with them. 
That we have friends and families who share their blessings with us. That we have a certain degreee of freedom. 
That some of the people who have been denied certain degrees of freedom are beginning to experience some: Eastern Europeans; Chileans; South Africans, etc. 
That there are people willing to make 

great sacrifices -even their physical lives -to bring freedom to those without it. That we have access to a quality education. 
That we have the entertainment and joy given us by our talented athletes, musicians, artists and other performers. 
That we can freely and intelligently explore many sides of many issues. That we have dedicated faculty, staff and coaches. 
That we are able to generously respond to victims of earthquake and hurricane, and to those who are hungry and homeless for any reason at all. 
That there are those who pray with us and those who pray for us. That whatever our circumstance, we are free to choose any attitude at all. 
A Thanksgiving Prayer: 
Loving Creator of all that is, we give thanks this day for all you have freely given us. We know you show us who you are through what give and how you give it. 
Help us to increase our gratitude to you, and to live it each day. Help us to understand that all from you is gift, and all from you is good, if we were to but see it that way. 
Give us one thing further, loving God. Give us the courage to respond to your gifts by giving to others -to those who have not received. We believe that if your gifts have not been made available to all, it is because some of us held on to them. Give us the courage to act on that belief. 
We Praise You. 
We Thank You. 
We Bless You. 
Amen. So Be It. 

Brought to you we!kiy by the &~ee of Campus M1mstry and fAg Observer 
--------~----­
•

Unrest 1n El Salvador
page 4 
House of Representatives rejects attempt to cut aid to El Salvador 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -The 

House on Monday rejected an 
attempt to restrict U.S. military 
aid to war-torn El Salvador, 
heeding President Bush's ad­
monition not to further weaken 
the eountry's "freely, demo­
cratically elected government." 
Amid bitter and at times per­sonal debate, the lawmakers voted 215 to 194 on a procedu­ral move that effectively kept the restrictions from being added to a $14.6 billion foreign aid bill. The measure includes $533 million for Poland and Hungary, and military and eco­nomic support for U.S. friends and allies around the world. 
The I louse then voted 31 0 to 1 07 to approve the foreign aid measure and sent it to the Sen­ate, where a similar debate was likely. 
Later, underscoring congres­sional outrage over last week's murders of six Jesuit priests, their housekeeper and her daughter, the House approved a non-binding resolution asserting that bringing the killers to justice would "be in­strumental in determining con­tinued U.S. support" for El Sal­vador. The vote was 409 to 3. 
Hep. David Bonior, D-Mich., said lawmakers were coming under heavy pressure from Christian groups to take action against El Salvador, including heavy lobbying and demonstra­tions at some members' district offices. 
In Washington, the National Conference of Catholic Bishops expressed support for propos­als "to withhold substantial portions of military aid while the performance of the Sal­vadoran government and mili­tary is tested." 
Opponents of U.S. aid heckled Bush during an appearance in Chicago. Others, in Washing­ton, repeatedly interrupted Se­nate floor proceedings, and Capitol police forcibly ejected several protesters from the chamber. 
House action came just a few hours after Bush said a cutoff of U.S. military aid to the new government of rightist Presi­dent Alfredo Cristiani would be 
"absolutely unacceptable." 
"There is a freely elected gov­ernment doing their very best trying to get protection from these Marxist-led guerrillas coming into the center of the city, and we support President Cristiani in his effort to restore order," Bush told reporters as he boarded Air Force One for a day of campaigning for GOP candidates. 
"This is not the time to un­
dermine a fragile democracy 
that is under attack ... It's to­
tally unacceptable, and the day 
of these Marxist attacks should 
end right now," Bush said. 
"My pitch is this: that we must not pull away from a freely, democratically elected government that had certifica­tion of the freedom of those elections," he said. 
Debate on aid to El Salvador demonstrated clearly that the new violence in that Central American country, including the murders of six Jesuit priests and two others last week, had reawakened long-dormant con­gressional tensions. 

Jesuits 
continued from page 1 
feeling of constantly being watched. l spoke with quite a few people who had been tor­tured; mothers whose children had disappeared. It's a country where 70,000' people have been killed," Coonan said. 
lie expressed his horror that men of the convictions of the priests working in El Salvador could be tortured and killed as they were. He stressed that he feels the most significant mes­sage of this type of action is that, "this is very much a church that lives the death and resurrection of Jesus." 
All of the priests interviewed said that military aid to El Sal­vador from the United States should be cut; however, they were mixed in their opinions of whether to immediately cut this aid or to wait to see if the El Salvadoran government puts forth a sincere investigation. 
"I think it( the U.S. govern­ment) ought to support media­tion and negotiation by third parties....We ought to end all military aid ... the violence would at least be reduced if we stopped providing weapons," Christiansen stated. 


McCormick supported the plan of Christopher Dodd, D­Mass., whereby U.S. military aid would be cut by January if the El Salvadoran government did not investigate the murders fully. 
Coonan called for a more immediate reaction from the United States government. "All military aid should be cut, and that's something that is so overdue in coming that it's sad that it even takes something like this to bring that point to people's eyes." 
Christiansen stressed that members of the Notre Dame community can become actively involved by praying and writing to the Secretary of State or a congressman.. 
Coonan said that lectures by people who live in El Salvador or have worked there are planned for the near future on 
Spunky Pandora Fecko is 21! HEY BABY, LET'S SEE THE GOODS!! 
Love, Sick and Wrong the UHirnate Male, Don Juan and Adonis 

Latest offensive helps and hurts guerrillas in El Salvador 
SAN SALVADOH, El Salvador galvanized opposition in the (AP) -A massive offensive left United States to continued aid no doubt about the Salvadoran for the rightist Salvadoran guerrillas' military capacity administration, which must be and drove home their point that considered a plus for the leftist serious negotiations and gov-rebels. ernment concessions are neces-But the Farabundo Marti Na­sary to end the 1 0-year-old civil tional Liberation Front paid a war. high price for its achievements. 
And the killings of six Jesuit They turned densely populated priests during the offensive urban districts into battlefields, 
Tuesday, November 21, 1989 
and the lives of tens of thou­sands of workers became a weeklong nightmare of death and destruction. 
Hesidents of Soyapango, Za­camil, Mejicanos and Ciudad Delgado, the humble neighbor­hoods devastated by the fight­ing that began Nov. 11, were angry at a government that sent warplanes to strafe and bomb guerrilla positions amid their homes. 

But those same residents seem to have saved most of their resentment for the rebels. 
"We just want 'the boys' to leave, so we can go back to work and finish raising our children," said Porfirio Alvarez as he fled with his wife and two daughters from Zacamil. 
The guerrillas maintained fortified positions in and around a complex of low-in­come apartment blocks there for four days. Virtually the en­tire non-combatant population evacuated under fire. 
campus. 

service last night. "It will be a tragic event like this, and to 
He also is planning more ac­

necessary to continue the kind make sure that the larger pic­
tivities similar to the prayer 

of momentum that comes from ture is also addressed." 
You are Cordially Invited to a Company Presentation 
by 
Eli Lilly and Company 
on 
"Financial Career Opportunities and Challenges in a World-Class Life Sciences Company" 
Thursday, November 30, 1989 
Alumni Room Morris Inn 
7:00 pm • 9:00 pm 
Reception following presentation 
Open to students majoring in: Finance, Economics, and ALPA 

------~------------------------­



Unrest • 
Tuesday, November 21, 1989 

1n El Salvador 
pageS 

Several churches raided in continuing crackdown 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) -Security forces arrested 16 social workers in a dawn raid Monday on the Episcopal church. Combat in a guerrilla offensive was reported continu­ing in only a few isolated areas. 
Security forces raided at least seven churches or church schools Sunday and Monday in a backlash to the offensive that paralyzed the capital for a week. 
Church workers and war refugees they sheltered were questioned and the buildings were searched for arms, am­munition and medicine, said church officials, workers and witnesses. 
Salvadoran churches, espe­cially those that work with the poor, are considered hotbeds of leftist subversion by the right and authorities suspect them of aiding or harboring guerrillas. 
In Washington, President Bush said he opposed cutting off aid in response to the slay­ings Thursday of six Jesuit priests, which Archbishop Ar­turo Damas of San Salvador said appeared to be the work of the military. 
The House of Representatives rejected an attempt to restrict the aid, voting 215-194 to keep the restriction from being added to a foreign aid bill. 
Combat between guerrillas and the army was largely con­fined to the working class neighborhood of Soyapango. There was heavy fighting in Apopa, a town 12 miles to the north and about halfway along the retreat route for rebels re­turning to their strongholds on Guazapa mountain. 
Although thousands were homeless, the capital appeared to be returning to normal. Stores, shops and other busi­nesses were open and service stations were selling gasoline for the first time since last week. 
The Farabundo Marti Na­tional Liberation Front high command said Monday the of­fensive had dealt the govern­ment political and military blows. 
"The fascist beast is defeated politically and militarily, it is mortally wounded," the guerril­las said on their clandestine radio, Venceremos. 
National Guard troops raided the Episcopal church just after the dusk-to-dawn curfew ended, a guard officer said pri­vately. 
The church, in one of San Salvador's most affluent neigh­borhoods, has sheltered about 200 refugees. 
Nine Salvadorans and seven foreigners were arrested and taken to Treasury Police head­quarters, said a church worker who would not let his name be used. 
The Treasury Police refused to confirm they had anyone from the church in custody. 
All those detained worked in the church's social services program, the church worker said. 
He said the director of the program, Juan Quinonez, his wife, Ana Quinonez, and a lay worker, Francisco de Paz, were arrested Sunday in their homes. 
The foreigners included Josephine Beecher of Lopez Is­land, Wash., a Canadian woman, a Colombian, a Guatemalan and three people from Spain. 
The church worker said they probably would be deported. Other foreign workers, includ­ing a dozen Lutheran mission­aries, have been arrested and expelled from the country in re­cent days. 
The Rev. Luis Serrano, the 

Episcopal pastor, went into 
hiding, the church worker said. 
In Washington, the Evangeli­

cal Lutheran Church in Amer­
ica, which has been active in 
humanitarian work in El Sal­
vador, identified another as 
Marcela Rodriguez, a natural­
ized U.S. citizen. 
The office of the archbishop 

of San Salvador said there also 
were raids on the Emmanuel 
Baptist Church and five Roman 
Catholic churches or schools. 
The Lutheran Church was 

shuttered. Its bishop, Medardo 
Gomez, is an outspoken mem­
ber of the national coalition 
seeking peace talks between the 
U.S.-backed government and 
the rebels. 
Like many clerics, including Rivera Damas and the slain Je­suits, Gomez says nothing has been done to address the poverty, ignorance and misery that led to the decade-old con­flict in this Massachusetts-sized nation of 5.2 million. 
Such opinions are deemed Colorado blamed Rivera Damas subversive by some on the and the auxiliary bishop for right. fomenting leftist violence 
through their "questionable Attorney General Mauricio ideology." 


Tuesday, November 21, 1989
page 6 The Observer 

AP Photo 
A souvenier from a past era 
A fireworker holds a piece of the Berlin wall behind a freight case full of "historic" ruins of this construction, Sunday at the Hamburg airport. About 1 0 tons of these stones came here in 19 cases from Berlin in a truck to be sent to the U.S. by jet. The destination of the historic freight is Chicago, but the client is unknown. 
BUCHAREST, Romania (AP) -Nicolae Ceausescu rejected the reform sweeping Eastern Europe and said Monday the land he rules like a feudal lord will stick to its rigid Marxist course. Thousands of support­ers cheered and applauded on cue. 
Romania's president and Communist party chief implied treason on the part of radical reformers in the Soviet btoc. "They used their leadership po­sition not for the people, but to change the system," he de­clared at the opening of the 14th Communist Party Congress, his voice rising with emotion. 
Ceimsescu used no names, but his remark seemed to be di­rected at party leaders in Poland and Hungary, which have turned toward democracy and free-market economies. 
It is said that he urged the Warsaw Pact to consider invad­ing Poland, but the reports have not been confirmed. 
The Homanian leader, a mav­erick who refused to follow the Soviets in breaking relations with Israel in 196 7, would not join the invasion of Czechoslo­vakia in 1968 and has an inde­pendent foreign policy, left no 

Lopez speaks on writers' responsibilities 
By JOE MOODY News Writer 
Today's media writers have a definite social responsibility, said Barry Lopez in his lecture last night. 
One obstacle to fulfilling this responsibiliy is that it is diffi­cult today to have a story pub­lished that contradicts media stereotypes, even if your story is the more accurate one, he said. 
"You owe the reader an or­ganization that is not just co­herent but engaging." He said that writers must respect the material they are covering as well as the reader being 
Defense 
continued from page 1 
four battleships and at least two carriers; and eliminating up to four Army divisions, said one Pentagon official who spoke privately. 
Pentagon spokesman 

Pete Williams said Cheney had 
not made any decisions about 
the reported suggestions. 
"This is a worst-case 

scenario, Williams said, 
adding that the secretary wants 
the services to conduct the 
"budget exercise" to be ready 
to respond, given the changes 
occurring under Soviet leader 
Mikhail Gorbachev and the 
budget pressures of the 
nation's deficit. 
"In a dynamic era, you 

have to have a dynamic process 
and plan accordingly," 
Williams said. 
"There is real pain 

when you cut the defense 
budget," he said. "The question 
is, how much pain can you take 
and still ensure the nation's 
security?" 
Over the weekend, 

Congress approved a $286 
billion defense budget for the 
1990 fiscal year that began Oct. 
1. 
Another senior 

Pentagon official, who spoke on 
condition he not be identified by 
name, said Cheney is 
negotiating with Budget 
Director Hichard Darmen on 



Romania's rulers reject reform 
addressed. "You owe a kind of presentation that rings with clarity or truth, in some way or another, communicates to the reader that you're taking his attention seriously." 
He also said that it should be mandatory to every writer to deal and cover the environmental crisis which abounds in our world. "Fields of famine, erosion and acid rain are everywhere." 
Lopez advised future writers who want to excel to read, work hard to "become some­one," and to travel abroad to experience other cultures. 
Lopez, author of several books, essays and articles on natural history, graduated from Notre Dame in 1966. He obtained a master's degree in English from ND two years before his graduation. He studied journalism and folklore briefly at the University of Ore­gon and since 1970 has been self employed as a writer. 
His first lecture last night in a series of three was called, "Moral Language and the Writer's Responsibility." The remaining two lectures will also begin at 7:30 p.m. in the Center for Continuing Education audi­torium. The next is titled, "Story and Natural History" on Nov. 27 and Lopez will read from his own works on Dec. 4. 

plans for a possible spending the official said. "It could be. cut for the 1991 fiscal year, or that we have to cut that much." about $20 billion in cuts from the projected $317 billion -a The Pentagon expec~ revised figured settled on to have its 1991 spendingearlier this year that takes projection submitted to the 
inflation into account. Office of Management and Budget by Dec. 8, the official "It could be that bad," 
said. 

doubt Monday that he does not agree with Mikhail Gorbachev's more liberal Kremlin. 
In Homania, he said, there will be "still more powerful growth of the party's leading role," and the state's already pervasive presence "will even grow in the organization and management" of the nation. 
"The party cannot give up its revolutionary responsibility," he told more than 3,000 dele­gates in Palace Hall. "It cannot surrender its historical mission to another force." 
His clear reference was to re­form in the Soviet Union, radi­cal change in Poland and Hun­gary and the fall of orthodox Communist regimes in East Germany and Bulgaria. 
Homania is a regular target at international human ri·ghts meetings for suppressing dis­sent and restricting religious freedom. Adding to the misery 
of the nation's 23 million people 
.are years of shortages that have led to poorly stocked gro­cery stores, cold apartments and cars without gasoline. 
To protest Ceausescu's hu­man rights record, ambas­sadors of all NATO countries except Turkey stayed away 
from opening day of the 
congress. 

The U.S. Embassy issued a statement saying it was not represented because "attendance of any of the activ­ities would be inconsistent with the depth of U.S. concern over the human rights situation in Romania, for which the Homa­nian Communist Party bears responsibility." 
Also missing for the first time was a party delegation from Hungary, which is at odds with Homania over alleged mistreatment of this country's Hungarian minority. 
Ceausescu spoke for more than five hours, to orchestrated shows of affection by the dele­gates. 
When their 71-year-old leader invoked Homania's determina­tion to defend its independence or praised the Communist Party, the delegates rose as one to chant, "Homania! Commu­nism! Ceausescu! Heroism!" or "Ceausescu, Homania and the Romanian Communist Party!" 
Delegates clapped in unison during these outbursts, some of which lasted nearly a minute. At a wave from Ceausescu, who has been in power 24 years. they stopped abruptly and sat down. 
SECURITY BEAT 
WEDNESDAY, NOV. 15 
5:30 p.m.: Notre Dame Police were called to the scene of a two vehicle accident on Juniper Road. No injuries were reported. 
11 :45 p.m.: Notre Dame Security and Fire Departments responded to a 
fire alarm in Stanford Hall. Unknown person(s) had pulled the alarm. 
THURSDAY, NOV. 16 
6 a.m.: Notre Dame Security and Fire Departments responded to the report of a fire in St. Michael's laundry. Cause of the fire is still under investigation. 
10:55 a.m.: Notre Dame Police responded to a two car accident on Juniper Road. No one was injured in the accident. 
1 p.m.: A visitor to Notre Dame reported that his car was broken into and a watch stolen from the vehicle while it was parked in the Columbia Hall parking lot. The victim's loss is estimated to be $100. 
2:20p.m.: The rector of Pangborn Hall reported that a fan had been stolen from the hall sometime between 11/14 and 11/16. The fan was valued at $25. 
7:10 p.m.: A resident of Pasquerilla West reported that her vehicle's license plates were stolen while her vehicle was parked in the D-2 parking lot. 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17 
8:30 a.m.: A Notre Dame employee reported that the boiler room door in the lobby of Cushing Hall had been vandalized during the night. Damage estimates are unknown. 
10:30 a.m.: Notre Dame Security received a report that a number of volleyballs belonging to the men's volleyball team had been stolen. The 15 balls are valued at $465. 
SATURDAY, NOV. 18 
12:30 p.m.: Five students reported that their coats and sweat clothes were stolen from outside the racquetball courts of the JACC. 
2:20 p.m.: Notre Dame Police responded to a two vehicle accident on Juniper Road. No injuries were reported. 
3:15 p.m.: Notre Dame Police were called to the scene of a two car accident in the D-6 parking lot entrance. No one was injured in the accident. 
SUNDAY,NOVEMBER19 
2:46 a.m.: Notre Dame Security and Fire Departments responded to a fire alarm at Alumni Hall. Unknown culprits had pulled the alarm. 
MONDAY, NOV. 20 
1:08 p.m.: Notre Dame Police responded to the report of a two vehicle accident in the D-1 parking lot. No injuries were reported. 


· Are you stuck in South Bend for Thanksgiving? 
Here•s your salvation: 
J.f:crc~?;3ww.K~JW C~Uc~Jr;j~ (SC~itl!:~J _g:~Uu;::J 

GO WILD AT THE LOOP! 
You can Christmas shop in a real mall. visit museums and other places of interest. 
Buses leave at 9:00a.m. on Friday. November 24. Make your reservations by Tuesday. November 21 at the Freshman Year of Studies. 



Viewpoint
Tuesday, November21, 1989 
a e 7 

Ihe_Q.bse_~!~ -­
--~ --.I.~Y=-..,_.1..-: 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Cocc1a Rich Iannelli 

Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager . Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager .Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager. .. .Alison Cocks Accent Editor John Blas1. Systems Mgr . Bernard Brenn1nkmeyer Photo Editor Enc Ba11ey OTS Director... . Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Christ1ne Gill Controller... . ..... Anne Lindner 
The Observer •s the 1ndependent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­ICieS of the adm1n1strat1on of e1ther mst1tution. The news is reported as accurately and ob­JeCtively as poss1ble Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the follow1ng Ed1tor-1n-Ch1ef. Manag1ng Ed1tor. Execut1ve News Editor, Viewpoint Ed1tor Sports Ed1tor. Accent Ed1tor. Photo Editor. Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters. and the 1ns1de Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is available to all members ot the commun1ty and the free expression of varying opmions on campus. through letters IS encouraged. 
British economy challenges Thatcher's reign 

disastrous. Inflation, currently Neil Kinnock, Labour's new im­against Brussels and the Euro­

By Joseph L. Novak 
at 7.6 percent, is the highest of age has quickly yielded results. pean Commission's President, mistake to count Maggiethe major OECD nations. Inter­In this past June's election for Jacques Delors, that has drawn Thatcher out. She has beenAmP.ricans have grown accus­est rates have soared and are the European Parliament; most of the fire. Rather, it has down before and arisen
tonwd to British PrimP Minister approaching a stilling 16 per­Labour handily defeated the 
been the abrasiveness with stronger and more unassailable
Margaret Thatcher. and thPy cent. Finally and most omi­Conservatives. And today polls which she has made clear her than ever. Certainly, she willlikP what they have seen. nously for a nation more reliant indicate that Labour would de­"rejectionist" credo that has remain a potent, if weakened,
Among other things. shP is than most on a favorable cur­feat the Tories by 10 percent, if especially angered other Euro­international force. However,admirP.d for straighhming out rent account balanc'e are the not more. peans. 
unless the economy improves.

thP British economy, defeating trade figures-for the past year Even Mrs. Thatcher's position and she restores disciplinethP A.rgPntine junta during thP Britain is $42.2 billion in the as international stateswoman Simultane.ously, Thatcher has within her own party, Mrs.
Falklands affair and backing 
red. extraordinaire is not to be been weakened by Reagan's de­Thatcher's days will be num­United Statf's initiatives most Confusion over how to man­taken for granted. Increasingly, parture from the White House. bered. Like the recently de­
of thP time. The problem is she age this economic downturn 
her surehandedness and real In Reagan, Thatcher had a re­feated Mayor of New York, Edmight not be around much has led to serious disagree­influence is being doubted. 
ceptive ear in Washington. Koch, Thatcher may find outlong('f. ments between Mrs. Thatcher Commentators both in Britain While President Bush sincerely that you can alienate only so
That fan may seem stunning. 
and her advisors. Matters and Europe have ridiculed her admires Thatcher, he has often many people. 
1\fter all. Mrs. Thatcher has reached a head when the Chan­outspoken reluctance to sup­looked for advice from other 
bPPn around for what seems a cellor of the Exchequer, Nigel port further European integra­leaders including West German politieal millPnnium. Since her Lawson, unexpectedly resigned tion. In some way, it has not Chancellor Helmut Kohl and Joseph L. Novak is a third elPrtion in 1979 as Britain's on October 26th. Lawson year law student. 
been the substance of her stand France's Mitterand. first woman prime minister. claimed that Mrs. Thatcher's she has b(~('n an international autocratic leadership style and 
LETTERS

symbol of gritty resolve and fo­habit of listening to outside rused determination. The Sovi­economic advisors were harm­ets nicknamed hPr the "Iron ing sound monetary policy. 
Lady." and President Reagan Specifically, Lawson maintained Intifada wreaks death and destruction consistently turnPd to her for that Britain has to join the Eu­
Dear Editor: murdered on the highways, imagine what would happen ifadvice. Even Fn~nch President ropean monetary system, a po­Frank Corcoran's broadside burned to death by Molotov Israel ever lost its war with the Francois MittPrand, not one of sition that the anti-Europe Mrs. 
against Israel and Jews (The cocktails, crushed by stones Arabs?
her admirers. spoke almost re­Thatcher has thus far dis­Observer, Nov. 13), contains so dropped on their heads, knifed Corcoran states: "The greatspnctfully of Mrs. Thatcher as dained. 
many serious distortions of the to death in the streets of weakness of American Jews ishaving the "eyes of Caligula but Lawson's resignation led to a Middle East conflict and uncon­Jerusalem, etc. The number of their refusal to recognize thatthe mouth of Marilyn Monroe." major reshuffling of the cabi­scionable assaults on Jews that Jews killed in the intifada is fact that even God's chosenThe world knew that when net, the second in little more some response should be made. now over 60. people are capable of makingThatcher said something. she than two months. Up until I will confine myself to a few is­In addition, there has been mistakes." This is an extraor­meant it. these changes, the Conservative sues: enormous destruction of prop­dinary claim. How did Corcoran That is still the case today. Party had prided itself on its For one, Corcoran describes erty-hundreds of buses and determine that Jews refuse toHowever, Mrs. Thatcher is now relative coherency and stabil­the intifada as a "relatively cars burned or destroyed by recognize that they are inca­in deep political trouble at ity-at least as compared to the non-violent movement of the stones, thousands of acres of pable of making mistakes? Didhome. Indeed. she faces what is opposition Labour Party. This Palestinian people." Whether or forest burned to the ground, he conduct a scientific poll? Didperhaps her most challenging claim no longer rings true. 
not one accepts that the cause crops torched, animals slaugh­he interview a thorough cross­crisis. After years of dominat­In part this is because Labour of the Palestinians is justified, tered, etc. Moreover, the vio­section of American Jews? 
ing the British political scene, itself has undergone a remark­one could hardly describe the lence by the Palestinians No, through his sarcastic useMrs. Thatcher quite possibly able transformation. At one intifada as non-violent. The in­against their own people has of terms like "chosen people",will not win the next general point earlier this decade, tifada has been, from the be­been even more extensive­he reveals that this is blatant,election which is due to be Labour was so riddled by in­ginning, extremely violent more than 100 Arabs have been undisguised, old-fashionedcalled by mid-1992. ternecine warfare that it did against both persons and prop­murdered by Arabs, sometimes anti-semitism. And, as such, itEssentially, Mrs. Thatcher's not seem politically viable. 
erty. Normal activities of the after torture and sometimes puts Corcoran's analysis of theproblem is the British economy. However, Labour has just fin­
intifada have included violent with their mangled bodies left Middle-East conflict into per­For a politician whose main ished a massive policy overhaul assaults on civilians and sol-
hanging on meathooks in the fect focus. 
claim to power has always been that makes it no more radical 
-diers, reswting in many injuries­center of villages as a warning Professor Ethan Haimosound economic management or divisive than any other Eu­and deaths. During the course to those who might oppose the Chairmanwith the results to prove it, the ropean social democratic party. 
of the intifada, Jews (including intifada. If this is how the Department ofMusiccondition ol' the economy is Ably led by the underestimated 
women and children) have been Arabs treat each other, can you Nov. 16, 1989 
GARRY TRUDEAU
DOONESBURY QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Tuesday, November 21, 1989



Viewpoint

page 8 
'Rampant social injustice' fades into background 
After a week-and-a-half of 

rnent has had a reason to care eyes, and quickly it fades into away in conseicnee, good or
Peter Morgan 
the intensified horror of civil about is our own national se­the continuing unwatched film bad, or to exereise the dmnoc­war and after the murder of six curity, and to ensure this secu­as the stories fade farther back racy that we so proudly claim
On Human Rights
Jesuits and two women, hints rity, our leaders have sought to into the pages of the newspa­and that is, at this tirn1~. the 
are popping into a careful na­make America the number one pers. In a time of rapidly only hope of thousands of un­
tional press that the majority these abuses date back at least economic and military power in changing East-West relations, armed eivilians between the
of violence against civilians is to the early 1930's, and one will 
the world. Our post WWII com­our readers appear to be battle lines. They have not thecomrnittnd by Salvadoran mili­notice that thousands upon petition in this, at least militar­choosing to continue backing luxury of timn that we, in an 
tary forcos. 
thousands of Salvadorans were ily, has been from the Soviet the military of El Salvador re­isolated and safe academic Sl~t­If one also looks at the killed by these forces long be­Union. As this is their prime gardless of the military's eon­ting, belinve we do. The time is
rhetoric of our administration, fore the FMLN took up arms in concern, it follows that other duet, including human rights now, as true citizens of a one will son that the forces of this decade. Through today, 
concerns are viewed as sec­abuses. This is dono on the part rapidly-changing world, tothe left reeeivo the brunt of the many of the Salvadorans killed ondary to this. of our leadnrs all in the quest challenge the priorities of our
blanw and that as quickly as have never taken up arms but You will very rarely see a for ultimate world power. 
leaders as we young people ofpossible the attempt is made to 
were instead people who had statement by George Bush or If we unquestioningly trust this world set our own.· connect this same left to stood up, marched, and spoken any State Department official our national leadership, then 
Can we leave unchallcng~~d theManagua, to Havana, and even­out against the rampant social refer to the Salvadoran conflict this snapshot fades forevnr into sending of millions of dollars
tually to Moscow. None of this injustiee in their country. In 
without immediately trying -the unwatched film. But even if every w1~ek by our governnwntshould be a surprise, because doing this, one docs not have to and please note the use of the this should be so, its haunting to El Salvador and rwgl1~rt tothe snapshot of this week's deny that in the last decade the word "trying"-to link the memory demands one thing of ask whether this aid has sup­
events fits exactly into the FMLN has committed abuses, FMLN with our main competi­each of us, and that is, can we ported just development or
longer tragic film of El Sal­but if one takes the evidence of tion, the Soviet Union. If this live with this? The answer, brutal destruction'! Or will wevador. To view this snapshot the above groups seriously, it is indeed is our prime concern, frighteningly, is that yes, we instead assert to our leadersand to judge a right and wrong very dear that the record of the then so bn it. But human rights can and have for years. and and repmsentatives that thiswithout viewing the entire film military is much tnore de­
concerns then must be also that the prediction of history­aid, which provides our
would be as simplistic as believ­plorable. recognized as subordinate to though thank God it is only a strongest lever as a nation,ing that the whole Salvadoran If one is then to look at the this. This subordination allows prediction-is that we will in may be justly withheld in tlwsituation could be elucidated in American government-a gov­for the historical situation of El the future. But the truth is that only action which will allow and one editorial in a college news­ernment which no one can deny Salvador, one in which the doc­thousands of Salvadorans-in 
ensure that both sides eonw to 
paper. has had a tremendous influence umented atrocities have been fact the entire population­
the negotiating tabl1~ in mason­If one is willing to listen to over the Salvadoran govern­overlooked and indeed even cannot. The reality is that there able parity and willingness tothe reports of independent hu­ment for decades-one will see perpetuated in the name of our is no end in sight, according negotiate unbloodily an end to 
man rights groups, independent that our administrations over 
greater concern. even to our military analysts, to the conflict?
journalists, and the Catholic the years, whether Democratic So for a brief moment a this war, which means a scan­Church in El Salvador, one will or Hepublican, have had no 
snapshot-one of murdered dalous multitude of undevel­Peter Morgan is a senior the­
see that by far the majority of political reason to care about priests and women and count­oped snapshots will fall upon ology major and a member of human rights abuses have been 
these abuses enough to warrant less faceless others, one of an even more scandalous pile of the Overseas Development Net­
inflicted by the Salvadoran mili­action or intervention strong now-homeless civilians and unseen snapshots from decades work. The On !Iuman Rightstary and the right-wing death enough to actually curb them. 
war-wounded children-is of­gone by. column is sponsored by the squads. Her.ords will show that Simply put, what our govern­fered by a fickle press to our The choice is ours-to turn Coalition on /Iuman Rights. 

Be like Yale and Brown: Rid ND of the opening Mass 
Dear Editor: and Jews among us, and somP 
The Committee on Notre Moslems and Buddhists as well; Dame's Position on the Ordina­rumor has it that the College of tion of Women (CONDPOW) is Arts and Letters even harbors a urging that the University ad­few agnostics and atlwists. ministration. in order to show I lave the lessons of the Year of its solidarity with the support­Cultural Diversity be1m forgot­ers of women's ordination in ten so quiekly'? the Homan Catholic Church. If we're going to replace the stop the practice of opening opening Mass with sonwthing each academic year with that less divisive tlwn let's do it in a conspicuous symbol of man's way that embodies the trUI~ oppression of women, the Iloly spirit of multiculturalism. Let's Sacrifice of the Mass. The cre­have an opm1ing ceremony that ators of CONDPOW recommend won't offend or exelude anyone that we have a simple "service or make anyone feel uneasy. of the Word" instead, so that a Let's havr~ an opnning ceremony woman might preside and wherein no local deities are in­preach. voked and no parochial preoc­
CONDPOW's counsel has cupations arn allownd to seize much to be said for it; after all, center stage. In short, let's how many sermons about have an opening ceremony like Galileo can one endure in a sin­the ones they have at Yale and gle lifetime? However, the Brown. 
\ CONDPOW recommendation It is solemnly proclaimed does not go far enough; liberal nowadays, in reply to certain
Thanks to all who aided in St. Michael's fire 
and open-minded as it is, it still contentious characters in suffers from that old Catholic Rome, that Notre Dame is a
Dear Editor: women of Food Services who Perhaps our greatest gift is ghetto-mentality. university and not a parishThough the damage caused carne to serve coffee, etc. to the knowing that so many came to church. I gently and respectfullyby the recent fire at St. firefighters in the middle of the the aid of those members of the As the founders of CONDPOW submit that the architects of
Michael's Laundry was exten­night. community in need. must surely realize, Notre CONDPOW havn yet to under­sive, we were blessed not to Thank you to the men and All good wishes and prayers. Dame consists of more than stand the full import of thathave had loss of life, serious women from the Laundry, Father David T. Tyson just a bunch of Homan message.
injury, or extensive damage to Public Information, Business Vice President Catholics worried about their Alfred Freddoso other buildings. Affairs, and Student Affairs for Student Affairs own narrow internal disputes. Professor of PhilosophyI should like to take this op­their presence and assistance Nov. 17, 1989 That are lots of Protestants Nov. 13, 1989 
portunity to express gratitude on the scene. to a number of people who Thank you to the Fire 'Boy-bashing', dirty laundry, and how to change a tire 
wern particularly helpful during Departments from Notre tlw crisis of the fire. Dame, South Bend, Clay and Dear Editor: to, let us say, how to change Such patronizing ean only 
Thank you to those students German townships for their The recent loss of St. the tire on a ear. imagine how strain male-female relations at who were initially on the scene successful efforts in averting a Michael's Laundry has induced it would be received: Notre Dame. For virtually my and who assisted the firelight­real tragedy. many women at Notre Dame to • Don't forget, girls, to jack entire childhood my mother ers by carrying laddnrs and Thank you to the Notre Dame joke about men now having to the car up before you try to made me do my own laundry other equipment. Police/Security for their contin­do their own laundry. Boy­pull the tire off. because, she said, "You'll have 
Thank you to the rector of ued efforts to maintain a safe bashing has indeed become • When loosening the nuts of to do it when you go to col­Lewis llall. her staff, and all environment for all of us. popular. Janice O'Leary's Inside the wheel (the nuts are those lege." In fact, I may have done the women of Lewis for their I know that I speak on behalf Column (The Observer, Nov. 20) hexagonal metal things some­more loads of laundry than alertness and assistance to one of Father Malloy and the other exemplifies well the general at­times hidden behind the hub­Miss O'Leary in my lifetime. another in evacuating the hall. Officers of the University in ex­titude among women that "it cap), don't use your fingers Maybe we'll meet in the 
Thank you to the halls which, pressing our appreciation to serves us right." (watch those nails) and turn trenches someday and can have with no notice, accommodated the many members of the Notre It probably does and many counter-clockwise. a laundry-off. Meanwhile, try the women of Lewis. Dame Family who provided as­men may learn something from • Finally, if you find you arc not to take us for all of our 
Thank you to the staff and sistance during the fire. all of this. But if I were to write not strong enough to jack the hard-earned $2 before thn year residents of Brownson Hall for As we celebrate a column with a similar tone as car up, there are many nice is out. the quick response to our re­Thanksgiving, let us all be Miss O'Leary's which insulted Notre Dame boys who would be Patrick J. Mullane quest to evacuate. mindful of the many gifts the intelligence of women (as I glad to offer their masculinity Alumni //all 
Thank you to the men and bestowed upon us by God. feel she did men's) with regard at just $2 a tire. Nov. 20, 1989 


~-'[he Obsenrer__ 
IRISH EXTRA 
Tuesday, November 21, 1989 

Notre Dame vs. Miami 
THE GAME 
The Game Notre Dame (11-0) at Miami (9-1) 
TV & Radio CBS Sports: Jim Nantz, Pat Haden, John Dockery Mutual Radio Network, Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna 
Tickets The game is sold out. 
AP Rankings Notre Dame 1st Miami 7th 
Series Notre Dame leads 14-6-1 Miami has won 4 of last 5 
Last Game Notre Dame 31 Miami 30 
NO SCHEDULE 


Aug. 31 ND 36, Virginia 13 Sept. 16 ND 24, Michigan 19 Sept. 23 ND 21, Michigan St. 13 Sept. 30 ND 40, Purdue 7 Oct. 7 ND 27, Stanford 17 Oct. 14 ND 41, Air Force 27 Oct. 21 ND 28, Southern Cal 24 Oct. 28 ND 45, Pitt 7 Nov. 4 ND 41, Navy 0 Nov. 11 ND 59, Southern Methodist 6 Nov. 18 ND 34, Penn State 23 Nov. 25 at Miami 
MIAMI SCHEDULE 


Sept. 9 Miami 51, Wisconsin 3 Sept. 16 Miami 31, California 3 Sept. 23 Miami 38, Missouri 7 Sept. 30 Miami 26, Michigan St. 20 Oct. 7 Miami 56, Cincinnati 0 Oct. 14 Miami 48, San Jose St. 16 Oct. 28 Florida St. 24, Miami 10 Nov. 4 Miami 40, E.Carolina 10 Nov. 11 Miami 24, Pittsburgh 3 Nov. 18 Miami 42, Pittsburgh 6 Nov. 25 Notre Dame 
LAST WEEK 
UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. -Penn State was eager Saturday to demonstrate a couple of reasons why Notre Dame had never won be­fore at Beaver Stadium. 
The pregame weather forecast showed 15 to 20 mile per hour winds with a zero-degree wind chill (33-degree temperature). Blair Thomas, who had frozen Irish national championship hopes in 1987 with a career­best 214-yard rushing day, led No. 17 Penn State to scores on its first two possessions and an early lead. 
But while Penn State had managed to win its four previous meetings here with Notre Dame, the Lions never had hosted an Irish team quite like this one. By the time the snow arrived in the second half, it fell on a Penn State offense watching on the sidelines as the Irish running game was burning the Lions' top-ranked scoring defense for a 34-23 vic­tory. 
Tony Rice (26 carries~ 141 yards) and Ricky Watters (16, 128) led a 428-yard Irish rush­ing attack, the most yards any Penn State team ever had given up on the ground. 

The Observer I Pat Kusek 

By GREG GUFFEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The mother-child relationship is paradoxical and, in a sense, tragic. It requires the most intense love on the mother's side, yet this very love must help the child grow away from the mother, and to become fully independent. 
-Erich Fromm in "The Sane Society" 
The most difficult day in Chris Zorich's college life did not come against Miami or Southern California. 
Instead, it was an evening last year when Zorich, the 250-pound nose tackle for Notre Dame, couldn't locate his mother, Zora Zorich, at their apartment on Chicago's South Side. He remained awake the entire evening, trying to call her to check on her well-being. 
"There was no answer and it was late," Zorich re­called. "I was like, 'What's going on there.' I about had a heart attack." 
Zorich summoned a neighbor to check on Zora. At 8 
a.m. the next morning, Zora discovered she had acciden­tally unplugged the phone jack. 
"I called him right then, and he was so worried about me," Zora said. "He calls me every night and reminds me to lock the door." 
For Zorich, the phone call was part of a ritual he started upon attending Notre Dame. Every night, whether it's 10 p.m. or 4 a.m., he calls his mother, not so much to see what she did that day, but to make sure she wasn't mugged, robbed or beaten. 
The Observer I Stelle Moskop 
Zorich grew up at 81st and Burnham in what many would call one of the toughest areas in the inner city of Chicago. He didn't have to worry so much about living as he did about surviving. 
It was there that he formed that unbreakable bond with his mother. Zorich's black father left town upon finding out that Zora, who is white, was pregnant. Zora raised Chris from birth, scraping and clawing for every­thing and anything. 
Chris does everything for his mother. Zora does every­th!~g for her son. 
"She basically taught me everything I know as far as being a person," Chris said. "We have this great rela­tionship. I can talk to her about everything. I can talk to her about girls, about football, about school. Some­times, I just have this awesome sensation when every­thing is going right to call her and just talk to her." 
Zora now proudly sports a button of Chris while walking in her neighborhood. She reminds people of him, brags about him and never lets them forget where he is now. 
~I brag about him all the time, but he doesn't do any bragging," Zora said. "I always say, 'Do you know Chris Zorich?' I always wanted him to have a good fe(;J_ling about himself, and now I think he has a good feeling about himself." 
see ZORICH I page 4 

Tuesday, November 21, 1989 
The Game... 
By THERESA KELLY 
Sports Editor 
MIAMI-This season, the 

stakes are just as high. Notre 
Dame vs. Miami, Catholics vs. 
Convicts II. 
Only this time, the Notre 

Dame campus has remained 
relatively calm, while 500 Mi­
ami students lined up for 500 
game passes 24 hours before 
they were handed out. This 
time, the game is in the Orange 
Bowl, where the Irish have lost 
four games in a row. This time, 
it's the Irish who are on top of 
the national rankings, and the 
Hurricanes who are battling to 
stay in contention. This time, 
Jimmy Johnson is suffering 
through a losing season in Dal­
las. 
But forget all that. This game 

is just as big. In fact, it's big­
ger, being later in the season. 
With the Irish all but set to play 
Colorado in the Orange Bowl 
and Miami bound for a ren­
dezvous against a potentially 
undefeated Alabama team in 
the Sugar Bowl, the impact of 
the Notre Dame-Miami game 
on the national championship is 
obvious. 
"We're going to have to 
buckle up our chinstraps and 
take 'em on," said Miami defen­
sive end Greg Mark. "It's do or 
die. This is our last stand; we 
have to do it if we want to 
achieve our goal we set for this 
season-achieving the national 
ehampionship." 
"It should be the game of the year," said Irish co-captain An­thony Johnson. "There's always a lot riding on this game, whether it's just for pride or for the national championship." NOTRE DAME DEFENSE VS. MlAM I OFFENSE 
If the Notre Dame defense, eighth in the country in scoring defense, has a weaknP"" it'" against the pass, and Miami is a team that can expose that weakness and take advantage of it. 
With the return of junior quarterback Craig Erickson, the explosive Hurricane offense is averaging 320 yards per game through the air. Erickson suffered a broken index finger early in the season and missed three games, but returned three weeks ago against East Carolina. He has totalled 1,797 passing yards, completing 131­of-247 passes (53%), hooking up for 14 touchdowns and throwing 12 interceptions. 
Erickson and backup Gino 
Torretta have led the Hurri­
canes to fifth place nationally 
in passing offense with 319.6 
yards per game. 

Erickson's primary targets 
arc junior wide receiver Wesley 
Carroll, who has caught 53 
passes for 770 yards and five 
touchdowns, and senior Dale 
Dawkins, with 47 receptions 
for 710 yards and five touch­
downs. Yet another wide re­
ceiver, Randal Hill, has pulled 
down 38 passes for 584 yards. 
While the Hurricanes do not 
rely on the ground game as 
much as the passing attack, 
fullbacks Leonard Conley and 
Stephen McGuire pack a 
formidable punch. 

Coming off an ankle injury, 
Conley has rushed for 464 
yards and four touchdowns on 
121 attempts. The freshman 
McGuire is averaging 5.1 yards 
per carry (85 carries for 436 
yards) and has scored nine 
touchdowns. Both are receiving 
threats as well, with Conley 
catching 14 passes for 153 
yards and McGuire three passes 
for 46 yards. 

The Hurricane offensive line 
has been the model of consis­
tency all season, as the same 
line has started every game. 
Miami averages just under 37 
points and 469 yards per game, 
while the Irish defense that has given up 14.2 points per game. 
The Irish defense is led by se­nior tri-captain Ned Bolcar, who needs four tackles to go over the century mark, and Donn Grimm, who has 88 tack­les on the season. Each has two sacks and four tackles for losses. 
Todd Lyght, who has a team­high eight interceptions, as well as 44 tackles, leads the Notre Dame seconary. The Irish de­fensive backs should be tested by the high-powered Hurricane passing attack. 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE 
vs. 

MIAMI DEFENSE 
"When you establish the run like we have, that's what makes a winning team," said Irish guard Tim Grunhard, who helps create the holes for backs to run through. "Passing doesn't. If you look at all the great teams, they're all great running teams." 
That's not to say the Irish don't have a passing game, but they definitely depend on the run. The Irish offense, like Mi­ami's, b led by its quarterback, but no two quarterbacks could 
·p··:.TAILBACK 

, 12 Ricky Watters : 4 Dorsey Levens 
~-·p:.

, FULLBACK~-~!· 1 • • 22 Anthony Johnson 

: . 5 Rodney Culver SPLITE~D 
• . QUARTERBACK 13 Pat E1lers 
p

64 Mi.ke Brennan . 3 RicK Mirer 71 Dean Brown· , 
43 Rod p p]$""p p ~'"'" '"'i 
... ·, 
GUARD CENTER 

&uA~D 
52 Tim Ryan 55 Mike Heldt 75 Tim Grunhard 61 Tom Gorman 76 Gene McGuire 74 Mirko Jurkovic 
TACKLE TACKLE 

HURRICANE 
67 Russell Maryland 96 Cortez Kennedy DEFENSE 
78 Kipp Vickers 63 Jimmie Jones 
LEFT END 
d RIGHTEND 56 Willis Peguese 94 Greg Mark 44 Shane Curry 95 Eric Miller 
d 

INSIDE LINEBACKER INSIDE LINEBACKER 38 Richard Newbill 49 Maurice Crum 45 Darrin Smith 1 Jessie Armstead 
A A 
MIDDLE LINEBACKER ~ 57 Bernard Clark 
A
CORNERBACK A 56 Michael Barrow CORNERBACK

6 Kenny Berry 23 Robert Bailey FREE SAFETY ~ ~ STRONG SAFETY 16 Roland Smith 2 Charles Pharms W W 8 Hurlie Brown 47 Ryan McNeil 31 Darryl Williams 2 Charles Pharms 
IRISH EXTRA 
be more different. Whereas Er­
ickson is a pure passer (he has 
minus-24 yards rushing), tri­
captain Tony Rice runs the op­
tion, keeping the ball for a total 
of 834 yards and seven touch­
downs on 154 carries. 
When the Irish do look to 
pass, Rice, Notre Dame's Heis­
man Trophy candidate, is 61­
of-122 (50%), good for 1,016 
yards and two touchdowns. He 
leads the team in total offense 
with 168.1 all-purpose yards 
per game. 
Again, the Irish face strength 
against strength. The Hurri­
canes, best in the nation in total 
defense (allowing 213.3 yards 
per game), and second in 
rushing defense (61.8 per 
game), face the strong Notre 
Dame ground game. 
Along with Rice, key players 
in Notre Dame's rushing attack 
are tailback Ricky Watters and 
fullback Anthony Johnson. 
Watters, after a slow start, has 
come on strong to average 6.9 
yards per carry on 110 carries, 
and he has scored 10 touch­
downs. He had a career-high 
137 yards against Navy this 
season and added 128 against 
Penn State last week. 
Johnson has 11 touchdowns 
to lead the team in scoring, and 
the senior tri-captain also is 
averaging 4.0 yards per carry. 
The Irish have plenty of 
weapons to worry a defense. 
Not only arc Watters and John­
son receiving threats, but the 
leading Irish receiver, Haghib 
"Rocket" Ismail, is fourth on 
the team in rushing yardage. 
Ismail has 26 receptions for 
516 yards, and 449 yards on 60 
carries from the backfield. 
Tight end Derek Brown has 11 
catches for 185 yards. 
Striking fear into the hearts of the Irish offense is the Miami defense, which has held its op­ponents to 10 points or less in eight of the Hurricanes' 10 games this season. Mark, a de­fensive end, has 15.5 quarter­back sacks and 6 7 tackles on the season. Senior linebacker Richard Newbill leads the team with 86 tackles, followed by ju­nior Maurice Crum with 81. 
But that defense will need as­sistance from the Miami special teams as well, because the Irish have six returns for touchdowns, three by Ismail. 
"It's going to be a battle for who wants it more," Grunhard said. "Everyone knows about how much they want it, but we want it a whole lot, too." 


Miami Sports Information 
Miami quarterback Craig Erickson. 

INSIDE LINj:BACKERM
36 Donn Gnmm 30 Nick Smith 
CORNERBACK ~ 1 Todd Lyght A 19 Shawn Davis 

~ 
\J!D 



IRISH EXTRA 
Tuesday. November 21. 1989 
MeGuire a surprise for the Miami ground game 
By CHRISTOPHER J. RINGS 
Miami Hurricane Correspondent 
Stephen McGuire burst onto the Uni­versity of Miami football scene the same way he bursts through holes in a defen­sive line -with sudden impact. 
Since starting tailback Leonard Conley injured his ankle a month ago, redshirt freshman McGuire became the first Hurricane to record back-to-back 100­yard games since Alonzo Highsmith in 1984, rushing for 136 yards against East Carolina and 114 against Pitts­burgh. 
McGuire also upped his season total to 436 yards rushing, eclipsing the pre­vious Miami freshman rushing record of 424 -set by Conley in the 1987 sea­son. 
"Stephen is challenging for a starting position, and he's getting closer every time, " said Miami running backs coach Alex Wood. 
Said McGuire: "I think Leonard should be the starter." 
But none of McGuire's rushing statis­tics could ever show just how far he has come. Two years ago, just two weeks after the death of his father Earl, 18­year-old Stephen left his home in Brooklyn and enrolled in Fork Union Military Academy in Virginia, the same preparatory school attended by former Miami quarterback and Reisman Tro­phy winner Vinnie Testaverde. 
McGuire did not like it there, and learning that he would have to take orders from 12-year old lieutenants didn't help. 
"I didn't want to go to Fork Union, but my mother reminded me that my father would have wanted it that way," McGuire says. 
Earl had persuaded Stephen to turn down a scholarship offer from Central (Ohio) State University to pursue a ten­tative offer from the University of Mi­ami. But Miami couldn't take McGuire until he scored over 700 on his SAT. He scored 690 in high school, but improved to 750 after his stay at Fork Union. 
"I've dedicated my football career to my father," McGuire said . "He attended all my high school games and I feel like he is still watching me all the time." 
At 5'11", 216 pounds, McGuire is Mi­ami's biggest running back. Although he and Conley both run a 4.65 40, McGuire's knack for breaking tackles has fostered comparisons to Highsmith. 
"I was a linebacker in high school, and I still have that mentality," McGuire said. "I like to run over people." 
"In the one-back there is an emphasis on the running game. The offense spreads out the defense and puts the running back up against a linebacker or a defensive back. A running back should win that battle." 
McGuire usually does. What surprises him is that he is doing it for Miami, a college football superpower that lives and dies by the pass, when as recently as his junior year in high school, McGuire wasn't planning on going to college. 
"I didn't want to waste my parent's money," he said. 
He didn't think he was good enough to earn a college football scholarship. And aside from Central State, East Carolina, Indiana, Miami, and his father -neither did anyone else. 
This win was as big as the hype 
Irish win 'game of the century' 
By MARTY STRASEN games receive the hype this Sports Editor Emeritus game received. Even less are able to live up to such a billing. All the hype came down to This one did. three hours of football. and 
Notre Dame led the whole three hours of football came way. But Walsh, who completed down to one play with 45 sec­31 of 50 passes for 424 yards, 
a career high for the lleismanonds left on the clock. 
Trophy candidate and the most 
passing yardage ever given up
Time Capsule 
by Notre Dame, rallied the 
And when StcvP Walsh's pass Hurricanes to within a point r.anw down in tlw Pnd zone, when he hit diving receiver An­down with it fpll Miami's 36-dre Brown for an 11-yard ganw stn~ak, No. 1 ranking and touchdown on a fourth-and­rPcnnt dominance of Notre seven play with 45 seconds left. Dame football. That made the score 31-30. 
The Notre Damn studnnt body The Game then became The rame down as wnll. rushing Play, as Miami tried for the onto thn field to cnlebrate the two-point conversion which 31-30 victory that gave birth to would have put the 'Canes hopes of the next Irish national ahead. But Notre Dame's de­championship and pushed Lou fense came up with solid pass Holtz' squad to No. 2 in the coverage when it needed it nation. most, and Walsh's pass for 
"This was a win by the Notre Leonard Conley in the right Dame spirit," said Holtz after corner of the end zone was bat­the Oct. 15 contest that boosted ted away by Irish free safety the Irish to 6-0 and ended the Pat Terrell. frustration of humbling Notre Walsh did not see the Irish Dame losses to the Hurricanes coming earlier in the game, ei­in 1985 (58-7) and 1987 (24-0). ther, tossing three interceptions 
"This was a win by the spirit and fumbling twice to Notre of a group of guys who refused Dame's Chris Zorich, both to fold," Holtz continued. "The coming after big hits from Irish spirit of Notre Dame was defensive end Frank Starns. something we talked about all Notre Dame recovered four week and I congratulate our Hurricane fumbles on the players ... It was a great game of afternoon. two teams who just competed Irish quarterback Tony Rice as hard as anything I've ever engineered first-half drives of seen." 75 and 80 yards, respectively, 
Not many college football to give Notre Dame leads of 7-0 
HURRICANE WATCH 

Former Miami QB Steve Walsh. 
and 14-7. Hice scored from seven yards out with 3:36 left in the opening quarter, and hit Banks with a nine-yard pass for the second-quarter score. 
The Irish then took their biggest lead of the game when Walsh unloaded a short lob un­der pressure that fell into Ter­rell's hands. The junior raced 60 yards for a touchdown and a 21-7 Irish lead. 
But the Hurricanes needed slightly more than five minutes to erase that margin. 
Walsh avoided an Irish blitz on fourth down with a quick toss to Conley that went for a 23-yard touchdown and made the score 14-7. Miami called two timeouts during the next Irish possession, got the ball back, and finished with a 54­yard drive with a 15-yard touchdown pass from Walsh to running back Cleveland Gary with 21 seconds left in the half. 
"I thought if we could get the lead, we could have the ball­game won," said Miami head coach Jimmy Johnson. "I thought we could take control of the ballgame." 
To that end, Johnson called a fake punt with the score still tied in the third quarter, but the Hurricanes ran the play to the overloaded side of the Irish defense, and Steve Belles stopped Matt Britton for a loss on the Miami 46-yard line. 
Rice hit Ricky Watters on a 44-yard sideline pattern on the next play, and Pat Eilers scored a two-yard touchdown to end the 13-second drive and give the Irish a 28-21 lead. 
Notre Dame's Reggie Ho and Miami's Carlos Huerta ex-
File Photo 

changed short field goals to make the score 31-24, and the 'Canes then looked as if they would tie the game midway through the fourth quarter. But the most controversial play of the game might have cost Mi­ami a touchdown. 
On a fourth-and-seven from the 11-yard line, Walsh hit Gary cutting across the middle for what would have been a sure first down. But as Gary fell forward in his attempt to cross the goal line, the ball came loose and Irish linebacker Mike Stonebreaker recovered it at the 1-yard line. 
If the officials would have ruled that the ground caused the fumble, Miami would have either retained possession or been credited with a touch­down. 
-

Dennis Erickson Rob Chudzinski car1os Huerta Richard Newbill Coach TE K LB 


Miami's sophomore kicker 9-1 in his first season at Chudzinski has 19 catches leads the team with 92 points Newbill leads the Miami squad An All-American candidate, Miami, Erickson had some big for 200 yards this season, scores this season after in tackles, including a team­Mark has 67 tackles, shoes to fill after Jimmy and is an integral part of the earning the starting spot for high 15 against Florida State. including nine for loss, and Johnson left for Dallas. Miami passing attack. the second straight year. 15.5 sacks on the season. 
.. 
Tuesday. November 21. 1989 IRISH EXTRA 
whether he wants to laugh or after school," Zorich said. If a man talks of his misfor­The driving force behindZorich cry. "They found out my mom didn't tunes there is something in Zorich is the hope of moving "There was the time where want me playing football, and them that is not disagreeable to his mother to a safer neighbor­
continued from page 1 me and a friend were playing they called me a sissy and him: for where there is nothing hood one day, even though ••• outside," Zorich said. "A couple things like that." but pure misery there never is times have changed since 
7he temptation to vivify the of older guys that were gang While the others in the neigh­any recourse to the mention of Zorich became a national tale and make it walk abroad members approached and said, borhood were destined to stand it. champion. on its own legs is hard to 'Do you have any money?' I on the corner for the remainder -Eighteenth-century British "A lot of things happen in deny.· said I didn't have any money. of their lives, Zorich got out writer Samuel Johnson that neighborhood that I don't 
-Gelett Burgess in "Sub He said, 'I need some money.' with the help of an improbable want my mom to be a part of,n Rosa" "He then basically beat the scholarship to Notre Dame. Zorich talks freely about his Zorich said. "The number-one crap out of me because I didn't He didn't play his first sea­childhood, as if he wouldn't goal in my life is to get my mom 
In some ways, Zorich is be­have any money. It was one of son, but he has dominated his trade the experience for any­out of the neighborhood, coming a modern-day Paul those things where I didn't tell sophomore and junior years. thing in the world. whether it's graduating and 
Bunyan. my mother or anything. He just He has become one of the "I had an awesome back­getting a job or playing profes­As the tackles increase, so do beat the crap out of me and we fiercest competitors and ar­ground," he said. "I enjoyed sional football." the stories. As the press cover­kept on playing. I was crying, guably the best nose tackle in growing up, and I had a lot of 
age increases, so do the exag­but after I finished we went the country. fun. I wouldn't change anything Zora, though, says times may gerations. back to the game. It was basi­When he returns to the South because I learned so many not be as tough as they seem. The fallacies include the re­cally an everyday thing." Side, he is Chris Zorich the things from growing up in that She rides her bike daily, is in­port that Zorich welded a bar There was also the time he star. Chris Zorich, the winner neighborhood. I think hard volved in a chureh group and to two sewer covers for weight and a friend went into a video of the national championship in times build character. Even has many friends. She also is lifting, that the thought of his gameroom after school. Two college football. though I got beat up a lot, I quick to mention that all three 
father gets him fired-up on the gunmen entered, slammed the "When I went home, I saw the had a ball. of her stolen purses eventually same were "I enjoyed my childhood be­were reeovernd.
line, that he is the taunter in­owner's head, threw a glass guys still hanging stead of thn tauntnd, that every display case and then pointed out on the same corners." cause the good things "It's not a slum or a ghetto day was a living hell for him. the gun at Zorich's face with Zorich said. "We were talking outweighed the bad. A lot of here," said Zora. ''I'm not lie is almost to the point of be­the comment. "What the hell about the games and how I was people say, 'Do you think about afraid or this neighborhood. lie ing God-like. are ydu looking at?" The game­doing. The guys who used to your dad'!' Well. no, because has a perspective on it, and I 
"It is getting blown out of room was boarded up for good beat me up were sitting there since day one I never met him. I have a p1~rspeetive on it. But if proportion to a certain extent," the following day. saying, 'Yeah Chris. how you have no idea what it is to have that's what Chris wants, that's Zorich said. "A lot of peopln Zorich and his mother had doing man. !low's school go­a father in the house. line with me." like to write about me because their house robbed once, while ing.' I thought, 'These guys "A lot of people say. 'If your While football helpnd Zorich it is a rags-to-riches story. It's Zora had her purse stolen on don't remember they used to dad came up to you, what get out of the South Side, he kind of like Hocky. !low many thrne separate occasions. The beat the crap out of me.' would you do?' I don't know. I readily admits he rwitlwr can pnopln have stories like that at mental damage is something "Now they think they can be have no idea what he looks like. nor wants to play fornver. 
He left my mom in a bad situa­
Notre Dame?" that can never be measured. my best buddy because they "I don't want to be rmnem­
But then~ are the true horror Even when Zorich turned to have seen me on television and tion. but actually I'm kind of bered as Chris Zorirh, nose storins anybody would experi­football in high school, he read about me in the papers. happy. If he had this kind of at­tackle at Notrn Dame," he said. ence growing up in that neigh­didn't escape the beatings. They think, 'Yeah, Chris Zorich, titude, what would have hap­"I want to be rernmnbernd as borhood which remain embed­Zora didn't want her son to he's the man.' I think, 'Ten pened if he had stayed with me'! Chris Zorieh -what a wonderful ded in Zorich's mind. lie tells play football because of the years ago you beat the crap out lie might have beaten me and father he was, what a won­them with equal parts or calm­possible injury risk, something of me. What the hell are you he might have beaten my derful husband he was and ness and vigor. When he's fin­the team members found out. doing now?"' mother. Then. I would really what a wonderful person he 
ished, it's hard to decide "They used to beat me up ••• have been screwed up." was." 
,IRISH STATS HURRICANE STATS 
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP RUSHING II() YOS AVG TO LG TEAM STATISTICS M OPP RUSHING II() YOS AVG TO LG Rice 154 834 5.4 7 38 Conley 121 464 3.8 4 22 
TOTAL OFFENSE 4570 3245 Watters 110 759 6.9 10 53 TOTAL OFFENSE 4690 2133 McGuire 85 436 5.1 9 55 Total Plays 784 763 Johnson 122 489 4.0 11 35 Total Plays 833 648 Johnson 61 344 5.6 3 38 Yards per Play 5.8 4.3 Ismail 60 449 7.5 2 50 Yards per Play 5.6 3.3 Crowell 44 208 4.7 2 31 Yards per Game 415.5 295.0 Culver 58 234 4.0 5 15 Yards per Game 469.0 213.3 Gibbs 28 82 2.9 2 11 
PENAL TIES· YARDS 55·458 52-397 Levens 24 136 5.7 1 13 PENAL TIES· YARDS 105·860 73·667 Fortay 6 11 1.8 0 13 FUMBLES-LOST 26·16 27-14 Belles 15 86 5.7 1 13 FUMBLES-LOST 24·11 23·12 Chud'ski 0 5 0.0 0 5 THIRD DOWN:;-CONV. 69·141 65·168 Brooks 13 45 3.5 0 11 THIRD DOWNS-CONV. 159·67 145·29 Erickson 27 ·24 0.0 1 31 
% .489 .387 Boyd 9 64 7.1 1 14 POSSESSION TIME 5:16:01 4:43:59 Torretta 21 ·15 0.0 0 15 POSSESSION TIME 348:14 311:46 Setzer 17 59 3.5 1 22 Team 1 ·17 0.0 0 ·17 
Brooks 13 45 3.5 0 11 M 394 1494 3 8 21 55 
SCORING TO R p R PA FG TP Mihalko 12 44 3.7 0 7 Opponents 346 618 1.8 4 37 
Johnson 13 11 2 0 0·0 0·0 78 Mirer 10 32 3.2 0 11 SCORE TO Au. p At PA FG TP
Hentrich 0 0 0 0 43·44 8·15 67 Jarrell 2 24 12.0 0 21 
Huerta 0 0 0 0 44 16 92 PASSING c A % YOS TO INT LG
10 1 Graham 15
Watters 11 0 0·0 0·0 66 7 2.1 1 7 
McGuire 9 9 0 0 0 0 54 Torretta 101 177 .5711325 8 8 88 Rice 7 7 0 0 1·2 0·0 44 Eilers 4 14 3.5 0 8 Carroll 5 0 5 0 0 0 30 Erickson 131 247 5301797 14 12 52 
Ismail 5 2 0 3 0·0 0·0 30 McNamara 4 14 3.5 1 6 
Dawkins 5 0 5 0 0 0 30 Fortay 6 15 400 74 0 1 25 Culver 5 5 0 0 0·0 0·0 30 Lanigan 2 9 9.0 0 8 Hill 4 0 4 0 0 0 24 M 238 439 .5423196 22 21 883·4 4·4 15 West 2 5 2.5 1 4
Hackett 0 0 0 0 

Conley 4 4 0 0 0 0 24 Opp. 146 302 4831515 4 19 67
1 0 R.Griggs 0.0
Graham 1 0 0·0 0·0 6 2 0 0 2 Johnson 3 3 0 0 0 0 18
Boyd 1 1 0 0 0·0 0·0 6 NO 628 3310 5.3 42 53 
Crowell 3 2 1 0 0 0 18 RECEIVING II() YOS AVG TO LG 
Setzer 1 1 0 0 0·0 0·0 6 Opp. 377 1172 3.1 4 36 Bethel 3 0 3 0 0 0 18 Carroll 53 770 14.5 5 88West 1 1 0 0 0·0 0·0 6 
RECEIVING II() YOS AVG TO LG Gibbs 2 2 0 0 0 0 12 Dawkins 47 710 15.1 5 45 
Aim 1 0 0 1 0·0 0·0 6 

Ismail 26 516 19.8 0 52 Aaron 1 0 1 0 0 0 6 Hill 38 584 15.4 4 52 
Belles 1 1 0 0 0·0 0·0 6 

Brown 11 185 16.8 0 38 Crum 1 0 0 1 0 0 6 Chud'ski 19 200 10.5 1 30Levens 1 1 0 0 0·0 0·0 6 Watters 11 178 16.1 0 32 Chud'ski 1 0 1 0 0 0 6 Thomas 15 205 13.7 1 27 McNamara 1 1 0 0 0·0 0·0 6 
Johnson 7 77 11.0 2 27 Bailey 1 0 0 1 0 0 6 Conley 12 153 10.9 0 42 
Terrell 1 0 0 1 0·0 0·0 6 

Eilers 5 53 10.6 0 20 Thomas 1 0 1 0 0 0 6 P.Smith 12 139 11.6 1 22
ND 50 42 2 6 47-50 14·21396 

Jarrell 4 37 9.3 0 16 Erickson 1 1 0 0 0 0 6 Crowell 11 121 11.0 1 27 
Opp. 20 4 16 0 14·20 7·8 156 

Belles 3 29 9.7 0 17 Smith 1 0 1· 0 0 0 6 Bethel 10 121 12.1 3 26 PASSING c A % YOS TO INT LG Levens 3 27 9.0 0 12 Jones safety Aaron 8 93 11.6 1 16 Rice 61 122 .5001016 2 7 52 Mihalko 3 44 14.7 0 33 Mark safety Kelleher 4 49 12.3 0 20 
Mirer 15 29 .517 180 0 1 33 Pollard 3 75 25.0 0 37 M 45 21 22 2 44 16 366 Johnson 4 5 1.3 0 7 Graham 4 5 .800 64 0 0 37 T.Smith 2 26 12.0 0 18 Opp. 9 I'B I'B I'B 7(2) 9 92 McGuire 3 46 15.3 0 27 ND 80 156 .5131260 2 8 52 I. Smith 1 8 8.0 0 8 two safeties M 238 3196 13.43 22 88 Opp. 216 386 .5602073 16 23 61 R. Griggs 1 7 7.0 0 7 Opponents 146 1515 10.38 4 67 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week, The Observer sports staff, a random student picked by the sports department and some 
. -t9­
• .t.
well-known figure in the Notre 
Dame community predict the 
•.. 

outcomes of the week's major college football games. Records are compiled as to how each Molly Mahoney Steve Megargee Greg Guffey Theresa Kelly Heather Atkinson Kim Kozlowski Fran McCann person does against the spread. In Assistant Associate Assistant Sports Editor SMC Random Student Guest Celebrity 
-other words, it isn't enough to Sports Editor Sports Editor Sports Editor Sports Editor 59-65-2 pick the winner of a given game. 72-52-2 64-60-2 66-58-2 62-62-2 60-64-2 64-60-0 .466 The person must pick the winner .581 .516 .532 .500 .484 .516 Last week: and give the underdog points. Last Week: Last week: Last week: Last week: Last week: Last week: 8-6 9-5 7-7 9-5 7-7 7-7 8-6 TEXAS A&M 2 over Arkansas Razorbacks Razorbacks Razorbacks Razorbacks Razorbacks Razorbacks Aggies MICHIGAN 13.5 over Ohio St. Wolverines Buckeyes Buckeyes Wolverines Wolverines Buckeyes Buckeyes TEXAS 4 over Baylor Longhorns Bears Longhorns Longhorns Bears Longhorns Longhorns Penn St. 2 over Pm Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Panthers HOUSTON 25 over Texas Tech Cougars Red Raiders Cougars Cougars Red Raiders Cougars Cougars Louisiana St. 11 over TULANE Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Green Wave Tigers HAWAII14 over Oregon St. Rainbows Rainbows Beavers Beavers Beavers Rainbows Rainbows Arizona 1 over ARIZONA ST. Sun Devils Wildcats Sun Devils Wildcats Wildcats Sun Devils Wildcats SYRACUSE 2 over W.Virginia Mountaineers Mountaineers Mountaineers Orangemen Mountaineers Mountaineers Mountaineers INDIANA 14 over Purdue Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Tennessee 7 over KENTUCKY Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers GEORGIA TECH 7 over Boston Col. Golden Eagles Yellow Jackets Golden Eagles Golden Eagles Yellow Jackets Golden Eagles Yellow Jackets Illinois 28 over NORTHWESTERN lllini lllini lllini lllini lllini lllini lllini MIAMI2 over Notre Dame Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Hurricanes Irish 

-
Accent
Tuesday, November 21, 1989 page 9 

It was 19R7. and Notre Danw. in its second year under Lou lloltz. was looking to avPngP tlw 5R-7 dubbing it took in thl' 19R6 mPeting with \'liami. As sPniors. we felt it our duty to roadtrip to tlw Orange Bowl owr Thanksgiving Brnak to rhi'Pr our tPam on to victory. So liw of us rPntPd a van. put a kPg in tlw bark. and set out for \'liami on tlw TUI~sday bPforP tlw ganw. 
Tlw lirsl IPg of the trip took us from South lknd to my honw in Atlanta. On tlw way WP dPridPd that consumption of bPPr in tlw van had to bP lim­itPd -a 700-mill' driw takPs a long limP if pPnpiP an• making pit stops PVPry 20 minutPs. 
We got into Atlanta late TuPsday night. and spPnt WPdnPsday sightseeing, with tlw van drawing curious stan~s as WI' drovP around. Aftpr a latl' night of hot tubbing with some fril'nds. WP slept for a fpw hours. wokP up. had on our way again to Miami by 
5:00p.m. 

Driving through the night. we 
made it to f;'ort Lauderdale by 
sunrise the next morning. This 
was not without difficulty, 
though. Much of the drive 
through f;'lorida was on a toll 
road. When you enter this 
highway, you are given a card 

with the time and miln marker 
stamped on it. We had heard 

rumors that the time you exit is 
used to compute an average 

speed between toll stops and if 
that excf~eds 55 m.p.h., you are 
ticketed. WPII, as we ap­
proached our exit. one of us 
calculated that our average 

speed. including a stop for gas, was over 70 m.p.h. So we got the bright idea of telling the booth attendant at the exit that we had lost our ticket. Since we had Pnten~d tlw highway at the lirst PntranCI\ we liguwd it wouldn't cost us any extra toll. 
The attendant wasn't too pleased with our ploy. however, to the side while she called the highway patrol. A patrolman came and took down the driver's license information and finally let us go after some in­tense questioning. All this for simply "losing" our ticket! Imagine what he would have done if he'd seen the keg in the back seat. 
After this fiasco. it was a re­lief to get to the hotel in Fort Lauderdale. We spent the entire day sleeping on the beach. All but one of us anyway; he lost the keys to the van while body surfing, and had to spend the rest of the day making phone calls and taking taxis to Ford dealerships trying to get a set or duplicates made. 
The next day. Saturday, was game day and my twenty-first birthday as well. I couldn't help but think that the football team would reward my fanatical support and beat Miami on my birthday. That morning, with this happy thought in mind, we for the Orange Bowl. Once again, this was not accom­plished without difficulty. 
We took the proper exit from the interstate and headed west as we had been instructed. After several miles however, we had seen no sign of the sta­dium, nor, for that matter, even one sign written in English. It seemed like somehow we had crossed into the Keys and were cruising the streets of Havana! We attempted to stop at a store to get directions, but no one in there spoke a word of English. The clerk did understand the words "Orange Bowl," however, and directed us there using his hand as a map. We couldn't follow him at all, so we just grinned and nodded and took our chances finding our own way. 
We eventually made it there about two hours before game time and were pretty excited about the prospeet of doing some serious tailgating. We had 100 miles to go, it was freezing cold outside, and the van wouldn't go more than 30 
m.p.h. We pressed on anyway (hey, it was a rental) and finally made it to campus. 
I am the only one of those five roadtrippers still at Notre Dame. I decided I had to come back to grad school so I could see the team win a National Championship. The Irish play the Hurricanes in Miami again this Thanksgiving weekend. I don't think I have the stamina to try to roadtrip it again, but, you can bet that all of us who were on that roadtrip two years ago will be at the Orange Bowl on New Year's Day when the Irish trample the Colorado Buffaloes. It will be "The World's Most Dangerous Hoadtrip II." 
Todd Graves is a graduate student in Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering. 

A Lover's quarrel with the teachings of the church 

Have you ever noticed how glory of God." The next biggest than when they're laying guilt His life to restore to us. In case things that people do." Some of every serious-minded Christian mistake was to sit still when he trips on other human beings. you haven't noticed lately, those things are good, some denomination has a package closed in for the kill with the Elmer Gantry, it seems to me, grace is everywhere; everything are bad, and some of them deal to offer sinners? runner-up text; "The wages of will never go broke in America is grace, or ready to turn into don't look good when you turn 
Christianity is a religion sin is death." I was still so wet from preaching a message of grace, with the consent of God them into a statistic. which pictures the human con­behind the ears that even if I gloom and doom, warning sin­who writes straight with dition in images of ice and fire. had had a bad thought, I was ners that they are in danger crooked lines. Some things people do are 
like rats on a burning ship. That's what it means to live downright mean. This is where · Even high-tone Catholics, in a sacramental universe, in the mercy of God comes in, and who are at peace with them­which the true visionaries are where His compassion startsFather Robert Griffin selves for being in a state of the poets. In a sacramental working overtime. However, grace and who are assured that universe, every relationship is I've got a mean streak or two 
Letters to a Lonely God when Michael rows the boat potentially incarnational, filled of my own -so why should I as­ashore, they'll be aboard as with the presence of God; any sume I have the right to stone passengers stretched-out on face, though it's that of my other mean-hearted people? 
The ice which is envisioned is too young to take pleasure in it; the sundeck -even saints like partner in sin, can be for me thin ice because that's what we but unless I latched on to the these do their share of hand­like the face of God, who shows As far as I can see, the duty are all skating on, unless we grace of Christ, the preacher wringing over the wickedness in His love for me through other that the Lord entrusted to have Jesus to cling to as though warned me, God would write the world. While deploring the human beings. Christians is the duty to love He were a rope saving us from me off as a child of wrath, vulgarity of Gantry, they believe Does writing all this make me and forgive. Even the Church hell and from high water -damned with older sinners who him when he attacks the sound like a bad Catholic, or makes mistakes when it starts which underlies that frozen had chalked up years of experi­Supreme Court for outlawing merely like a fool in love with riding herd on sin like a posse 
surface, not half as thick as a ence. Bible reading in the public love, as though it were wine like of vigilantes and forgets that that which St. Paul told 
pizza crust, and is kept heated What chance does a boy have schools, as a consequence of the Church's first duty, in the and boiling by the eternal fire. when he's in danger like that, if which, says Gantry, the children Timothy to take for his stom­defence of truth, is preaching All churches have theologies the preacher makes him an of­are growing up godless. They ach's sake? the Gospel of unconditional which catalogue the effects of fer he can't refuse? cheer for Gantry when he cites love. That's why the reforms of original sin. What Christianity "Only believe in the Lord the statistics which give us a The Catholic faith can be a Vatican II were needed-to get needs most is a religion that's Jesus." he said, "and you will b£ headcount of our sins as a na­bore if it is used mostly as a away from the excessive le­good-natured enough to make saved." So I believed in the Lord tion, for which God will soon grandstand from which to tell galisms that came from run­a dogma out of original inno­Jesus as the Baptists believe in come to punish us. children that their sins make ning the Body of Christ as cence. Him. As a Catholic, you can believe them trash in the sight of the though it were the office of the 
I've been hanging out with as much as you like in the ef­Maker. As Casey, the preacher Grand Inquisitor. But Peace! ­Jesus-people of one stripe or Now that I'm getting old, and fects of original sin and in "Grapes of Wrath," said, "I The only quarrel I have with the another since I was seven years am no longer only technically threaten sinners with maledic­don't know anything about Church is a lover's quarrel, so, old. The biggest mistake I ever sinful, I feel less thrilled by tions like a prophet of doom. sins" -maybe that's because shalom! Come back safe from made was to believe a Baptist offers of cheap grace and free As a Christian optimist, I prefer I've never been acquainted with the Thanksgiving holiday. minister who preached on the salvation. This is because I've to be on the lookout for the ef­the devils who act as sponsors That's the prayer of Darby and Pauline text; "For all have noticed that the majority of fects of original innocence, to a holocaust. But, as Casey me. Neither of us ever said we sinned, and come short of the Christians are never happier which the Prince of glory gave ~ould say, "I only know about didn't love you. 
Tuesday, November 21, 1989 
page 10 The Observer 
Irish, Buffs remain atop AP Poll 

(AP)-Michigan State is back and Fresno State is out of The Associated Press college foot­ball poll, while Notre Dame re­mains on top for the 12th straight week. 
The Fighting Irish, who beat Penn State 34-23 Saturday, re­ceived 57 of 60 first-place votes and 1,497 of a possible 1,500 points from a nationwide panel of sports writers and broad­casters. 
Notre Dame puts its 23-game winning streak on the line Saturday at No. 7 Miami. Win or lose, the Irish are expected to return to the Orange Bowl for a New Year's battle against second-ranked Colorado. 
Colorado, a 59-11 winner over Kansas State, received the other three first-place votes and 1 ,439 points Monday after completing an 11-0 regular season. The points for Notre Dame and Colorado were the same as last week. 
Michigan held third place

AP Photo 
with 1,359 points after trounc­

The honeymoon is over in Phoenix. Cardinals General Manager Bill 
ing Minnesota 49-15. The 

Bidwell, disappointed with poor fan turnout, fired coach Gene 
Wolverines were followed by
Stallings, who had led the Cards to a 5-6 record. 
Alabama, Florida State, 
Nebraska and Miami -the 

same order as the previous week. 
Alabama defeated Southern Mississippi 37-14, Florida State crushed Memphis State 57-20, Nebraska downed Oklahoma 42-25 and Miami routed San Diego State 42-6. 
Southern California was held to a 10-10 tie by UCLA, drop­ping the Trojans from eighth to 12th. Tennessee, a B-21 win­ner over Mississippi, moved up from ninth to eighth. while idle Arkansas rose from 1Oth to ninth. Auburn moved up one place to No. 10 by defeating Georgia 20-3. 
Illinois was 11th, followed by Southern Cal, Houston, Texas A&M, Clemson, Virginia, West 
Virginia,  Texas  Tech,  
Pittsburgh.  Ohio  State,  
Brigham Young,  Penn  Stale,  

Duke, Hawaii and Michigan State. 
Michigan State returned to the Top 25 after a five-week absence by crushing Northwestern 76-14 for its fourth consecutive vic.tory. 
Penn State fell five spots to No. 22 after losing to Notre Dame. 
The Top Twenty Five teams in the Associated Press college football poll, with first-place votes in parentheses, records through Nov. 18, total points based on 25­24-23-22-21-20-19-18-17-16-15-14-13­12·11-1 0-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1 and last week's rankine: 
Record Pts Pvs 
1. Notre Dame (57) 11-0-0 1,497 1 
2. Colorado (3) 11-0-0 1,439 2 
3. Michigan 9-1·0 1,359 3 
4. Alabama 10-0-0 1,319 4 
5. Florida St. 8·2-0 1,244 5 
6. Nebraska 10-1-0 1,200 6 
7. Miami. Fla. 9-1·0 1,169 7 
8. Tennessee 8-1·0 1,065 9 9. Arkansas 8·1·0 988 10 10. Auburn 8-2-0 925 11 11. Illinois 8·2·0 907 12 12. Southern Cal 8·2-1 815 8 13. Houston 7-2-0 730 13 14. Texas A&M 7-2-0 716 14 15. Clemson 9-2-0 670 15 16. Virginia 10-2-0 603 16 17. West Virginia 7-2·1 413 18 18. Texas Tech 8-2·0 390 20 19. Pittsburgh 6-2·1 384 19 20. Ohio St. 8-2-0 375 22 21. Brigham Young 9·2·0 330 2{ 22. Penn St. 6·3·1 314 17 23. Duke 8-3-0 231 25 24 Hawaii 8-2-0 182 24 25. Michigan St. 6·4·0 131 
Other receiving votes: Florida 53, Washington 13, Fresno St. 12, Oklahoma 7, Syracuse 5, Georgia 3, Oregon 3, Arizona 2, Air Force 1. Arizona St. 1, Ball St. 1, N. Carolina St. 1, N. Illinois 1, Texas 
1. 

Jones denies that Cowboys have troubles with finances 
DALLAS (AP) Dallas days and that he is providing ment is authorized, and that Quoting "Cowboys sources," for our new business office to Cowboys owner Jerry Jones de­money to the club on almost a sometimes takes time. the Times Herald also reported get things straightened out and nied a published report on weekly basis to help with cash "The Cowboys are absolutely that the team held a check for a some bills fell behind but every­Monday that the team is in fi­flow -but said the paper made able to pay any of their bills $1.5 million lump sum payment thing is fine." nancial trouble. the erroneous assumption that that they are incurring or due rookie quarterback Troy Dixon said the only debt the 
"That's just not true," Jones the tPam is in dire financial might have incurred.... Any Aikman until after banking Cowboys have other than ac­said Monday night in a tele­straits. business or any family or any hours because there would not counts payable is to Jones for phone interview with KRLD It is commonplace for the company from time to time ... be enough money to cover the money loaned to the dub. Hadio. owner of a business to loan may have bills to pay and may check until a TV payment was Jones is president of Arkoma 
The Dallas Times Herald re­money to the company from not have the money on hand to received and deposited the fol­Exploration Co. of Little Hock, ported in a banner story on time to time and be paid back pay it. When they do get the lowing day. Ark., and acquired his wealth in Page 1 of its Monday editions as its revenues come in, Jones money on hand, they pay me Both Aikman and Jones de­the insurance business beforP that the Cowboys. who have the said. back," Jones said. nied that his paycheck was late. turning to oil and gas. worst record in the NFL, have "The only person or entity Earlier Monday, coach Jimmy Although he said it's too soon not been faring much better on The reason payment of some that the Dallas Cowboys owe Johnson and club treasurer to tell, Jones said he doesn't the business side since Jones bills is delayed beyond 30 days, any money to is me, and that is Jack Dixon denied the newspa­expect the Cowboys to turn a bought the franchise for $130 he said, is because the Cowboys not done because they are hav­per report. profit this year. million last February. instituted a policy requiring all ing shortfalls or any problems "Our bills arc paid and that's But he said there's no finan­
Jones confirmed that some bills to be reviewed by the de­paying their bills. It's just doing the least of our worries," cial cns1s involving the bills are not paid within 30 partment involved before pay-business." Johnson said. "It took a while Cowboys or Texas Stadium. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. 10 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline tor next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be
Classifieds 

prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
NOTICES 
WORDPROCESSING 
272-8827 
WORD PROCESSING 
272-8827 
TEXTBOOKS 
BOUGHT AND SOLD 
Pandora's Books 
corner of N.D. ave and Howard 
233-2342 
lots of paperbacks in stock! 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 
287-4082. 
TYPING 
PICKUP & DELIVERY 
277-7406 
LOST/FOUND 
18 K necklace with charms lost--­Please return to Stephanie @ 284­4431 
FOUND: ND ACADEMIC EXCELLENCE T -SHIRT IN NORTH DINING HALL ON NOV. 6. CALL CHRIS 1072. 
WATCH FOUND BETWEEN 
NIEWLAND SCIENCE AND 
LA FORTUNE ON MON 11/13/89 
CALL 2489 TO IDENTIFY 
LOST: gold ring w1lh 3 sm rubies somewhere between 'brare, O'Shag, North, and Lew1s on 
11/15. Please call x 4161. Thank 
you 
LOST: Man's NO antiqued class ring, has my name ins1de. If found please contact Pat Kujawa at 723 Flanner (x 1159). Reward offered. Thank you! 
If you picked up the wrong blue 
sport jacket at the Holy Cross 
(SMC) dance last Fri. Nov 17 
please call Ted 289· 7930. I may 
have yours as well. 
LOST: Canon Sure-Shot Camera Main Circle late Sat. night Nov. 18 PLEASE call x43621 
LOST: 1 3.5" Macintosh diskette labelled "MACINTOSH PROGRAMS" in NOH or Cushing. To return. please call Adrian at x2106 or Mike at x1648 
WANTED 
ATIENTION -HIRING! Government jobs -your area. $17,840-$69,485. Ca/11·602-838· 8885. EXT R6262. 
Losing an Apart. or Housemate at the semester? I'm interested in taking his spot. Danny x1513 
FEDERAL, STATE AND CIVIL SERVICE JOBS! NOW HIRING 
THIS AREA! $10,271 TO $84,157. IMMEDIATE OPENINGS! CALL 1­315-733-6062 EXT #F2382H FOR CURRENT LISTING. 
Fitness USA Ladies Division 
Is looking for Aerobic Instructors and part·Ume Fitness Instructors Call 291-8800 Mon. Wed. Fri. or 277-3131 Tues. Thurs. 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219-291· 7153. 

FOR SALE 
MACINTOSH 512K 
WI PRINTER & ACCESS. 
$750 272-2172 
GIRL SCOUT COOKIES. HELP ME GO TO HORSE CAMP. $2/BOX. CALL ANGELA 234-9669 OR LV. MESSAGE. 
WHITE 2 DOOR 1980 DATSUN 
210. 5-SPEED. $400. CALL#1555 
(Leave a message.) 
TICKETS 
AfT from SB to Orlando Nov. 23-28 ; $150???? Call Pam x2732 or x2741 
Round trip tic from SOUTH BEND to MIAMI for sale. Leaves WED morning, returns SUN. Very cheap! Only $200. Please don't make me eat it. Call Chris @ 1306 
I NEED MIAMI TIXS.272-6306 
FOR SALE: NOTRE DAME VS MIAMI TICKETS. CALL DAVE 302­655-6076. 
FOR SALE: 
Many MIAMI Ga's 
Call Keira 2169 
TOP$ 
ALL HOME GA'S 
312-920-9350 
ALUM in NEED of NO/MIAMI 
tickets!!! Call on weekdays during 
the day COLLECT at# 
202-457-5729. Do not hesitate to 
call. Your tickets will be bought!! 
MIAMI TIX NEEDED Rich Alum hates the 'Canes Call Ted 256-5727 
PERSONALS 
ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W. KOKOMO, IN 46901 
ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE POOR CLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W. KOKOMO, IN 46901 
Student-made ND footballt-shirts wanted. Call Tom collect at (620) 948-761 0 with description. Especially want Miami and Orange Bowl shirts. Will pay $12.50/shirt. 
CONGRATULATIONS JEFF! 
Congratulations MARGARET CONNOR on your deserved victories in Madison this weekend!!! Best of luck in the rest of the fencing season from your friends. Both of them. 
JUNIORS JUNIORS APPLICATIONS FOR SENIOR FORMAL 1991 AVAILABLE AT STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE. MUST BE IN BY NOV. 27. 
OH MY GOD!!!! It's Tuesday and I still don't have a ride to St. Louis for Turkey Day! Please help me! Tom 3120 or 3132 PLEASE!!! 
Kris-I bought you a drink... now you owe me!!! 
-Pete P.S.­My back still hurts! 
MARY MULVANY IS GOING TO BE 22 ON THURSDAY. You know Mar, you're half-way to 44!!! Have a great birthday.Love always, Mag 22222222222222222222222222 
Steve-I can't believe you forgot his name. I only told you 20 times. Didn't they teach you anything at SHP? Maybe you should have gone to Delbarton. Love, Chris' ex 
Jennifer Schlueter. Who says you never gel person­als? Have a great day! Love, XXX Your secret admirer 
ps. Cats stink, you're awesome, 
and that's the way it is. So there. 
SHMQO-YOU HAVE GIVEN ME 
THE BESTEST 2 YEARS OF MY 
LIFE! I WUV YOU! LUV, YOUR 
FAVORITE DIZZY BLONDE 
HEY MIKE PLONSKI-YOU HOT STUD, CAN I HAVE YOUR BABY­ALL 10 OF THEM? LOVE MEl 
CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable atmosphere, daily & weekly specials, pool table, English darts, and great company. 234-3541 
HiAgl 

OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo.Summer, Yr.round,AII Countries,AII fields, Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del Mar CA 92625. 
Driving Back to NO in January? 
I need a ride back from Ft. Lauderdale after Christmas Break. Will share expenses. Call Will at 283-1474. 
Thanks to all who helped me -esp, Aim for the kit, Ter for the flowers, Renee for the food, Dave for the note, and MB for dinner. You guys are the best! RM 
Happy Thanksgiving! 
This weekend is the perfect 

opportunity to discuss buying an 
IBM PS/2. 

The PS/2 can help you get coursework done more quickly so that you'll have more time for yourself and finals. 
PS/2's are available for immediate delivery so you can start saving time right away. 
This weekend talk to your parents about purchasing a PS/2 and then come talk to us....... 
IBM PS/2 Demonstration 
LaFortune Hall 
SorinRoom 
Thursday, November 30th 
7·9pm 

JOEY. I only know one Joey, how 
many do you know? It is over 
thank God!! So, when are you 
going to give me the $50? 

TRICIA Sorry I took so long.Piease reply with your number, soon. Steve(the OJ at Marks St) 
22222222222222222222222222 
ADOPTION · Well-educated couple eager to adopt a baby. Cheerful home full of books. 

Flexible on sharing information with b1rthmother about child. Our adoption agency can provide counseling and references. Please call collect 309-827·3135 eves/wknds for profile/photo. James and Hollis. 
STUDENTS WANTED TO MARKET ND CALENDAR OF EVENTS. CALL ALLEN 277-4469. 
r-----------~...-------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------. 
Tuesday, November21, 1989 
The Observer 

Word Associa 
About his players 
Joe Fredrick: Clutch Jamere Jackson:. Smooth Keith Robinsont Scott Paddock: Can help LaPhonso Ellis: Need him Keith Tower: Role model Lairnbeer Elmer Bennett: Scoring guard Daimon Sweet: Great athlete Keith Adkins: Shoot the 3's Monty Williams: Surprise Kevin Ellery: Pit bull Tim Singleton: The General Tim Crawford: Student'sbest 
About his opponents 
Indiana: Tough game Louisville: Execution against press LSU: Hope they're number one when we play them Missouri: Tournament game Syracuse: Final Four challenge Duke: We're due to beat them at Duke DePaul: Two best independents Georgia Tech: Great challenge to beat them at home UCLA: The rivafry goes on Valpo: We'll be fine 
The Observer/Greg Guffey and Laura Stanton 



WithMacintosh 
youcan
evendo this: 
Print... ~p Quit 
Macintosh~ computers have always been easy to use. But they've 
never been this easy to own. Presenting The Macintosh Sale. Throughjanuary31, you can save 
hundreds ofdollars on avariety 
ofApple~ Macintosh computers and 
peripherals. So now there's no reason to settle 
for an ordinary PC.With The 
Notre Dame Computer Store Office of University Computing Math/Computing Center 
239-7477 
Hoops 
continued from page 16 
ond semester. Christmas to me this year would be to have 12 people eligible and Crawford. Then let's go for it." 
The Irish will have to over­come a big hurdle with the loss of Ellis. He averaged 13.5 points and 9.4 rebounds per game last season, with a high game of 27 points against St. Bonaventure. 
"Give me kids that want to be here because they believe in the place," Phelps said. "That's why 'Phonz came here. Yet if you don't exploit this place academ­ically, this place will force you to exploit it academically and not let you play--which 'Phonz had to find out the hard way." 
Senior captains Joe Fredrick and Jamere Jackson should provide both spark and leader­ship for the Irish, roles they also held last season. 
Fredrick scored 16.7 points per game last season, while Jackson averaged 13.5 points per contest. Fredrick should again be a big scorer for the Irish, while Jackson's versatility shows on the defensive end of the court. As Fredrick and Jackson go, so should the Irish. 
The silent, but effective, Keith Robinson will be a force in the frontcourt. Robinson gets the job done but leaves the head­lines for others, prompting Phelps to call him "Mr. Invisible" last season. Robinson scored 12.3 points and pulled down 9.2 rebounds per game last year. 
Senior Scott Paddock and ju­
nior Kevin Ellery will provide 
help up front with Ellis on the 
sidelines. If Ellery returns to 
the form in which he scored 15 
points against Kentucky and 
dl!i 

The Macintosh Sale. 
Now throughJanuary31. 
Madntosh Sale, you can wind up with much more ofacomputer. 
Without spending alot more money. 

© 1989 Apple Computer; Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered tmdemarks ofApple Computer; Inc. 
page 11 

six against Indiana, he should give the Irish a big boost. 
Junior guard Tim Singleton will again be the floor leader and will direct the up-tempo pace of the Irish. Singleton scored 5.8 points per contest last year, but more importantly, he dished out 208 assists. Phelps calls him "The general" and Notre Dame will rely on him to carry out that role. 
Phelps hopes the saying, "The best thing about freshmen is that they become sophomores" will hold true this winter. The highly-touted class members of 1988 are now sophomores and should contribute greatly. 
The "Texas Express" of Daimon Sweet and Elmer Bennett return their quickness and a total of 10.7 points per game. Keith Adkins provides a deadly threat with the three­pointer, while Keith Tower is still making strides to become the next Bill Laimbeer in the paint. 
Williams might be the biggest surprise. The freshman from Forest Heights, Md., was rela­tively unknown coming into Notre Dame, but he turned 
heads with 15 points in the sea­son-opening exhibition game against Israel. 
"Last year when we recruited him, people were saying 'Who's this Monty Williams?"' Phelps said. 'That's my job, to find the talent. He just needs to olav. His confidence seems to be coming. There's no pressure on him." 
Notre Dame will get some quick tests early in the season. The Irish open their season next Tuesday against San Francisco in the Joyce ACC. Contests with Louisville in the Big Four Classic and at Indiana follow that. 
... 

Tuesday, November 21, 1989 
page 12 The Observer 
Kubiak, Broncos buck Redskins 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Gary which at 9-2 is four games fensive end Dexter Manley, sus­Kubiak, subbing for an ailing ahead in the division with five pended for life last week for a games left as they seek their third substance abuse infrac­
John Elway, threw two short 

third title in four years. tion and his replacement,
first-half touchdown passes as the Denver Broncos beat the Washington dropped to S-6, in Markus Koch, injurnd a knee in deep trouble in their quest for the third quarter.
Washington Redskins 14-10 

an NFC wild-card berth.
Monday night, all but sewing up the AFC West title. It was the first game between It took just 13 yards of of­the two since the January 1988 fense to produce two touch­
Safety Dennis Smith also Super Bowl, won 42-10 by downs, one for eaeh team. played a key role, twice strip­
Washington. But injuries and 
ping the ball from Jamie attrition had taken a toll on On Denver's first possession, Morris, the first time setting up 
both teams. Just 10 players on Fred Stokes saeked Kubiak. 
a Denver touchdown, the sec­each team who started that stripping the ball and recover­ond time stopping a game started Monday night. ing on the Broneos' 8. Then Washington threat at the Morris dashed up the middle Broncos' 10. for the seow on the first play.
One of the non-starters was Elway, who came down with a
Kubiak completed just 13 of The Broncos reciprocated the
stomach virus in late afternoon
27 passes for 123 yards, but first time Washington got the
that left him in the locker room
the completions included a 1-ball when Smith stripped the
for the entire game.
yard touchdown pass to Melvin ball from Morris. Tyrone Bratton in the first quarter and Doug Williams, the Braxton picked it up and re­.. a 5-yarder to Hicky Nattie! in Washington quarterback who turned it 35 yards to the 
x 

the second. The defense took was the MVP in the Super Bowl, Hedskins' 5. After Humphrey over as temperatures dropped also was on the bench after carried to the 1, Kubiak rolled and winds up to 30 mph swirled starting two games on his re­out and hit Bratton, who just 
around HFK Stadium. turn from back surgery. made it over the end line for the Bobby Humphrey carried 31 Washington was also playing score, losing the ball on the times for 110 yards for Denver, for the first time without de-way down. 

Despite the fact that quarterback John Elway (7) sat out the game with a stomach virus, the Denver Broncos managed to beat the Washington Redskins last night, 14-1 0. 
Hockey 
continued from page 16 
crank up the offense that pro­vided 43 goals in the first 6 games. A bright spot for the Irish is that they are getting balanced scoring from their forwards. Sophomore David Bankoske continues to lead the Irish attack with 19 points. He racked up four assists, two each night, over the weekend. lie has shown thus far that he can beat a team by scoring goals or by setting up team­mates with sharp passes. 
Tim Kuehl has provided 7 goals and 7 assists, while Curtis Janicke, Sterling Black, and Lou Zadra follow with 10 points apiece. The Irish were bolstered last weekend by Black's two goals (including Friday's game winner), and Zadra's goal Friday. Pat Arendt, who scored the first goal in Friday's win, rounds out the scoring leaders. 
Notre Dame will have to play more aggressively this weekend than they showed Saturday night. They will have to take more shots from their set of­flmse and take it to the net on breakaways. 
Schafer is pleased with the 
balance scoring and is espe­
dally happy with the play of 
freshman Sterling Black. 
Sterling has hockey savvy," 
Schafer said. " That savvy puts 
him in position to be at the 
right place at the right time, 
whether it's picking up re­
bounds or scoring off passes." 
Babies 
Don't Thrive 
In 
Smoke-filled Wombs 

When You're Pregnant, Don't Smokel 

If you're a Computer Science or Engineering major, 
consider our road to success. 
Business Technology Organimtion Program 
Perhaps you haven't heard of the career potential Wall Street offers to graduates with technical expertise. But ~ you're interested in the challenge and rewards of solving technical problems for a leading investment banking firm, as well as, developing integrated information systems that will drive 
tomorrow's world markets, there's a place for you at 
Salomon Brothers. 

Our Training Program not only gives you the chance to broaden your skills, it teaches you how to apply them in a dynamic global business. Continually striving to maintain our position as one of the world's most technologically advanced financial institutions, Salomon Brothers offers a wide variety of professional opportunities where creative analytical minds can thrive. 
for more information contact Kathleen McCrain, Salomon Brothers, 55 Water Street, 28th Roor, 
New York, NY 10004. We are an equal ... 
-~,~~~­
c" 
ff»'; 

....... ·omon Brothers Inc 
--~-------------------------------------~-­
Tuesday, November 21, 1989 
The Observer 


Rookie leads Habs past Flames
Yount wins AL MVP 
Brewers' star also won in 1982 
total of 228 points. Sierra, Yount, the major league hit 
NEW YORK (AP) -Robin whose team finished fourth -as did Milwaukee -also
leader of the 1980s, was 
led the league with a .543

named American League slugging percentage, 78 ex­Most Valuable Player for the tra-base hits and 344 total
second time this decade on Monday, winning in a year bases. when there was no clear-cut choice. Baltimore's Cal Ripken was 
Yount won in 1982 as a 
third with six first-place shortstop and this season as 
votes and 216 points. He hit a center fielder for the 
.257 with 21 homers and 93 Milwaukee Brewers. He 
RBis in helping the surpris­joined Stan Musial and Hank 
ing Orioles challenge for the Greenberg as the only play­AL East title. ers to be MVPs at two differ­ent positions and became the George Bell, like Ripken a first AL winner to play on a former MVP, finished fourth team without a winning with four first-place votes record. and 205 points. He batted .297 with 18 home runs and
Yount batted .318, hit 21 homers and drove in 103 
104 RBis for AL East cham­runs as Milwaukee went 81­
pion Toronto. 

81. lie received eight first­place votes for a total of 256 Dennis Eckersley, who fin­points, and was the only ished fifth with 116 points,
player named on all 28 bal­and Carney Lansford, who lots by members of the wound up 17th, received the Baseball Writers' other first-place votes. Both Association of America. play for the World Series 
Texas' Ruben Sierra, who champion Oakland Athletics. batted .306 with 29 home runs and a league-leading 
The National League MVP119 RB!s, was second with will be announced Tuesday. 

six first-place votes an a 
Join The Observer 

GROUP RATES 
AVAILABLE 
Rental Cars Available 
C~l Toii·Free 800·23&·&17 
lleslmtDIIEIIIIIIIIIIIrlcl 
INCLUDES: 
• 
Ride to and from airport 

• 
Deluxe Room·1 to 4persons 

• 
24hr Room Service 

• 
Cable TV/Free HBO 

• 
Ride to Game 

• 
Complimentary welcome drinks 

• 
Pool, restaurants and more 



MONTREAL (AP) -Andrew scoring 6:58 into the game given a major penalty and a Cassels scored his first when defenseman Eric game misconduct at 4:39 of the National Hockey League goal to Desjardins sent Smith and final period when he high­lead the Montreal Canadiens to Keane on a 2-on-1. Keane sticked Smith. a 3-2 victory over Calgary pushed Smith's pass under Monday night, extending the goaltender Mike Vernon's stick Rangers 3, Jets 3 Flames' winless streak to six for his third goal of the season. NEW YORK (AP) -Thomas games. The Flames tied the game on Steen and Pat Elynuik scored 
Cassels, a 20-year-old called the power play at 15:58 when goals 88 seconds apart late in up to replace injured center Guy Otto, alone in the slot, one­the third period as the Carbonneau, banged in the re­timed Joe Mullen's pass past Winnipeg Jets tied the New bound of fellow rookie Ed goaltender Brian Hayward. York Rangers 3-3 on Monday Christofoli's shot 2:36 into the Smith scored just as an el­night. second period as the Canadiens bowing penalty to Calgary's John Ogrodnick and Brian beat Calgary for the second Gary Roberts expired when he Mullen had scored 91 seconds time in as many meetings be­slammed in a pass at the side apart midway through the pe­tween last May's Stanley Cup of the net from defenseman riod to give the Rangers a 3-1 finalists. Jyrki Lumme at 1:53 of the sec­lead. But Steen came out of the 
Mike Keane and Bobby Smith ond period. corner and beat John also scored for Montreal, 14-9-Cassels, the Canadiens' top Vanbiesbrouck with a short 2. Smith earned his 600th ca­pick in the 1987 draft, then backhander at 12:41. Elynuik reer assist on Keane's goal. made it 3-1 before the Flames tied the game by banging in a The Flames, 10-8-6 overall closed the scoring on the power passout from Steen at 14:09. but 0-4-2 in their last six play at 12:31, when Gilmour de­Vanbiesbrouck was under games, had goals from Joel flected AI Macinnis' point shot pressure for most of the night, Otto and Doug Gilmour. past Hayward. as the Jets outshot the Rangers 
The Canadiens opened the Calgary's Theoren Fleury was 44-26. 
AP Photo Russian import Sergei Makarov and his defending champion Calgary Flames teammates have spent a lot of time on the seats of their pants lately, as they have not won in their past six games. The Flames tied the Montreal Canadians, whom they beat in the Stanley Cup Finals last spring, by a score of 3-3. 
TOTALLY ADORABLE!!! 
Juniors Juniors Juniors 
Your parents could be staying on campus for Junior Parents Weekend. Register for the Morris Inn Lottery 
Tuesday, Nov. 28 and Wednesday, Nov. 29 6-9p.m. room 108 LaFortune 
any questions? call Maryann x2055 or Steve x3131 
Juniors Juniors Juniors 
Epee 
continued from page 16 
"Our kids are fencing very, very nicely right now, mostly because they've been working quite hard," said DeCicco. 
Assistants like Mike Marx, Rich Daly, Adam Zyczkowski and Attila Tass have worked long hours in preparing the Irish, putting them in a position well-equipped to challenge the nation's best schools. 
"I think we've got much more depth than in the past," said Marx. 
And as usual, women's head coach Yves Auriol has the women's team fencing excep­tionally well, as evidenced by their fast start. 
Senior captain Anne Barreda has yet to show signs that the year off from competition has had any effect at all, as she si­lenced her critics with a great performance at Penn State and adding to that a 9-0 mark this weekend. Senior Lynn Kadri was near-perfect at 10-1, while sophomore Tara Kelly con­tributed greatly at 8-2. Auriol must be pleased as well with freshmen Kathleen Vogt and Kristen Clark, who finished the day at 3-0 and 4-1, respectively. 
Several fencers remain here over the Thanksgiving break for added training as the Irish look forward to a match against the Air Force Academy as well as Universities of Illinois and North Carolina on the first weekend in December at Northwestern University. 

page 14 

Wrestlers impressive 
Irish take two firsts in St. Louis 
Tuesday, November 21, 1989
The Observer 



The Observer/ File Photo 
Andy Radenbaugh took a first place finish in the St. Louis Invitational this past weekend. The Irish wrestlers will take a break for the Thanksgiving holiday before returning to action in the Las Vegas Invite. 
KC kills against William & Mary as a freshman and helping the continued from page 16 program to its best year evnr last season when the Irish hampered by a fever and earned a NCAA bid and finish­swollen glands which inhibited ing ranked 15th nationally. her breathing. But her seemingly endless Cunningham leads the Irish string of injuries has foreed with a .262 hitting percentage her to look beyond the surface and 121 total blocks and is in accomplishments of her career second place on Notre Dame's and to the lessons which will all-time dig list with 925. linger long after her last vol­What is amazing about her leyball season is over. performances this season is "Sometimes I think the physi­that she has done it as a middle cal setbacks never gave me the hitter-a position she hasn't chance to develop into the vol­played since high school and leyball player I am capable of the last remaining one in the being," Cunningham said. "And Irish lineup she hasn't played I feel comfortable at middle during her tenure. blocker now. I may have been "I've asked KC to play every more successful if I'd started in spot in the lineup for us," Irish the middle sooner. head coach Art Lambert said. "But I've just learned to "The only things I haven't adapt my goals to my changing asked her to do is sweep the circumstance. Wherever I hap­floor and sell popcorn and tick­pen to play, I'm continually ets. striving for success and re­"She has had herself one hell evaluating my particular con-of a year. KC's versatile enough tributions to the team." 
Cunningham may get a ehance to join former team­mate Mary Kay Waller in Mulhouse, France and play vol­leyball professionally-an op­tion that is very enticing to both Cunningham and Lambert. 
"I know how mueh KC loves volleyball." Lambert said. 'Til do everything I can to find her a spot playing in Europe be­cause she is has set the tone for all succeeding captains on this team. 
Cunningham will bn the key to Notre Dame's showdown with Bowling Green tonight. which will be her final home game of the season and last game of her career. 
The Falcons enter the match 19-9 led by the duo of Linda Popovich and Tammy Schiller. who have tallied 1,100 assists and 359 kills en route to cap­turing the wgular season MAC Conference title. 

HAPPY 20th RACHEL! 

LOVE, THE FLANNAGANG 
NOTRE DAME PARENTS 
HAVE YOUR SON OR 
finisher at every one of the 
DAUGHTER LIVE IN A CONDOMINIUM WHILE AT SCHOOL 
*1 mile from Notre Dame
ORANGE BOWL 
*New Construction
TRAVEL PACKAGE INCLUDES GAME TICKET! 
*Tax Abatement *Security Systems
See the Fighting Irish BEAT the Colorado Buffs!
s598 

Your complete travel/game package includes all of these features: 
*A Profitable Investment 
{Jtr person quod 

0 Roundtrip airfare from Chicago via Eastern Airlines, departing
(4 people per room) 

*Many Tax Benefits 
triple. double or smgle December 31 and returning January 2, other dates available 
ovotloble on request 

0 Deluxe accommodations at a Miami Dadeland Marriott Hotel 
American Travel 0 Alamo rental car with unlimited free mileage. Gas. tax. insurance 
call 

extra. Minimum age requirements apply. Airport transfers available.
Membero/th&Amarnm&x:lelyoiTrove/Aaenll 

TARIPP DEVELOPMENT CORP.
and the American MarlceUng Assn 0 ORANGE BOWL GAME TICKET -seat location subject to availability
Cottage BowlandAJumnJ SpeciatJsts 

Contact Christopher Matteo
0 Hotel and airline taxes included 
l-80().92MIAMJ f()( 3lhorlllQ. $648each. } lhonng $698 etl<h. ~ngle. 5198 Space~ llmlled allllese pnc5 Q(J(j ~ OVOIIOble on 
(219) 232-8256 
a flfll COI1l('. flfl/ served ballS Slm1/or hOle/ f1l0)' IJe 1UDII1Iuled SIOndord rravef package terms apply 
Tuesday, November 21, 1989 
The Observer page 15 
CROSSWORD
Tuesday LECTURE CIRCUIT 
2:30 pm. Lecture: "Developing Research Libraries in Latin America" by William Jackson, professor of library science, UT at Austin, Room 131 Decio. 
CAMPUS

Tuesday 
8 p.m. Notre Dame Orchestra Concert. Washington Hall. 7 p.m. "African Queen" Annenberg Auditorium 9 p.m. "The Big Sky" Annenberg Auditorium 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

"Well, we're back!" CALVIN AND HOBBES 
l'M TEll/Nfi'bv. ~ K~­ IW BE9l TRt>.PPE.D Ot-.\ lli£. CEILING-.'  ~OJ S\-\ol.llD BE GlA\) I OfJTSIIJE \'!HEN IT 1-\~WEt-\ED,  
SON~L GRP-.'J\T'(  1 CO\.llDNT DO  OR l'D B£  
R~IJER5t:D ITS  til~ \.lOME.WORK  SA\L\NG­ 
Rllf>.R \T'1 .'  I  yp Tll£/i£.'  11\RO\JG-H 11\t.  
FALL fll' NC\W !  ~i D£SI(  \Ot\OSI'\\ER£ I  
I~ Gt-1 11\£.  
fLOOR.'  - 
WILBUR AND WENDEL  




51 Sonny's sibling 54 Railroad employees 58 Potential 
boomer· 59 Echo 60Visit 61 Declare, in court 64Gob 65 Swiss painter 66 He has vested 
interests 67 Like Methuselah 68 Marionette 
maker 69 Holdings 
DOWN 

1 Limited 2 Soprano Emma 3 Astonish 
4 Utters, in Br'er Fox jargon 5"-yPiata" (Mont. motto) 6 Fabray of films 7 Hautboy aSpeared 9 Aids an arsonist 10 Weasel's kin 11 "Beowulf" is one 

22 Friable soil  36 Swirled  51 Roman burial  
deposit  40 At the bottom  stone  
23 Angry 25 Man or Wight 28 On the move 30 Hero of Hindu literature 31 Mull resident 32 Raison d'­ 41 Hatfield of Hollywood 44 Perceived by touch, smell, etc. 46 Highway rumblers  52 Metal brick 53 Cubic meter 54 Friend of Pompey 55 Oct. birthstone 56 Jerk 57 Designer Cassini  
33 Kelly or Disney  47 Groom  62 Musical  
34 Building beam 35 Author Jaffe  49 City near Gainesville, Fla.  syllables 63 Kindled  
THE FAR SIDE  GARY LARSON  


"YOU again!" 
ACROSS 
1 Add cumin, e.g. 7 Norwegian 
monarch 11 Sprite 14 Mechanical eye 15 Bill Bendix role 16 "The Gold Bug" 
author 17 Stalwart female 18 Rarity 19 Poor 20Pince-­21 Thrilling 24 Monogram of 
"The Waste Land" poet 25 Robert of "Quincy, M.E." 
26 Danish weights 27 Place 29 Succinct 33 Early radio 37 Datum 38 Dwelling 39 Erwin of 
Hollywood 41 Bob Hope's specialty 42 Realtor's 
holding 43 Set apart 45 Mannerism 47 Command 48 Statue in 
Piccadilly Circus 50 He may be tight 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

role 13 Plunged to earth 
BILL WATTERSON 
R\GI-\1. l-10\'1 l OOt-\'t 'Nfii'IT To \-\tAR 1\1'\'{ MOR£ NONS£!-l'SE 
VtH\L '10\l'R.t '11\R<YJG\.\ W\n\ 'iO\JR \.lOMIC.'NORK, \lt-IDERSTI\ND? 
JAY HOSLER 

i'H£ >TV~~r UNtON ~JZ.P ~ M'PJZE.C lA~ IHe-H""~~ Wl>IZJC.-PlJr :fi:)JZnt ~y "1'1-tJ: R>U.OWIN.Ef PeoPL-e 1~ ~~~ '1lte ~lJA'Zf=!' C.C~~r A HUtte ~s-;: ~ VI tJGelo M.lrfZ.TINez. PM CAAW¥0~ 1'5V'tJ Fa..AH e'fZ.T"'( 'J.&&..L­~~ ~11+( OIIN'*­C+ttllS~ e~Z.It­~IN~ MA1r ~IZI£. I(.JM nAG'( ~SbN~Y Plcr~S rc.a1TY f'WI!N BY CH'24$ H.A~ JlJ~e~lTI+ Ml~ ~P\NIN Ma.rSftlr ~ dUl,..(, i!-WOOL-RZ.t G4C,. cJOH-N PVMtJ gue. teAl'-­EHCW  


Sports
~ge 16 Tuesday, November21, 1989 
Irish begin quest for Denver 
Phelps says Fir)al ~our. is his ~~ti~ate goal
BY GREG GUFFEY ~1s pote~1tml. there s .no doubt I here 1s one thing the Irish 
. . m my mmd that we will be very do not have-sophomore sensa-Assistant Sports Editor competitive come tourney tion LaPhonso Ellis. Ellis will It's a late October practice time." miss the first semester games and suddPnly Notre Dame The main premise for this because of poor grades, some-coach DiggN Phelps is furious. early-season optimism is the thing which Kevin Ellery has 
"That's not Denver," he fact that Notn~ Dame will re-also had trouble with in the shouts to his players. a re-turn all of its players from last past. minder that play must improve year's 21-9 squad. Add fresh-Phelps has given the players 
for the Irish to play for the na-man Monty Williams to that more time off this season than tiona! championship in Denver nudeus, and Phelps thinks this in the past, hoping that extra next March. Irish team will turn some time will pay off in the form of 
That's the attitude Phelps and heads. passing grades. The team has the Irish are taking into the These players got a taste of not practiced on the weekends, 1989-90 season. Anything short the big time last March, down-and Phelps has extended the of perfection. anything short of ing Vanderbilt before narrowly sessions with campus tutors. a trip to Colorado, will not be losing to Georgetown in the "What you think you have tolerated. In short, if there ever second round of the tourney. going into the exam and what was a time when Notre Dame These players now realize what you end up with are two differ-

could win the title, this is the it takes to advance to the re-year. gionals. 
''I'm trying to look at every "Now we have seniors who day in practice and every situa-were juniors, sophomores who tion in practice and say That's were freshmen," Phelps said. Denver. That's not Denver,'" "We're a year older and we've Phrdps said. "Eventually, we got more game experience. want to peak at the right time. We've got depth. We've got If we get every guy to play to size." 
"KC'' plays with pain 
By MOLLY MAHONEY got to o~t and play hard ev­Assistant Sports Editor ery day. One would think that with 
Tendinitis in both knees, a Cunningham's affinity for dislocated right shoulder, a the floorboards, she would pulled intercostal muscle, spend more time in the severely sprained ankles, a training room than the strained neck muscle and spotlight. more bruises than month­But despite her physical old fruit. condition, Cunningham's ac­
Most people would be tions have been winning looking for a trade-in or praise all season. least take themselves in for She garnered all-tourna­repairs with this list of in­ment honors two weeks ago juries, but senior Kathy when the Irish hosted the Cunningham-captain of the Golden Dome Classic, and Notre Dame volleyball last weekend Cunningham team-is content with being caught the coaches' eyes a silent sufferer. again in the Western 
"What good docs it do to Michigan Invitational when complain?" Cunningham she tallied 40 kills, 17 digs asked. "That won't make and 1 0 total blocks in two things better and I just matches. couldn't say Tm too sick to The Naperville, Ill. native play this week.' It wouldn't led the Irish with 15 kills do me any good to sit on the and five block assists in b1meh. their three-game loss to 
Texas A&M Friday. She also "If you give yourself to was the catalyst in Notre something completely, you Dame's comeback win over 
... can't say 'forget it' just be­host Western Michigan, 
cause things aren't going recording 25 kills, five total 
your way. Actions speak blocks despite being 
louder than words, so no 

matter how you feel, you've see KC I page 14 ent things," Phelps said. "We're not taking any risks with it. When you have two semesters overlapping, the most impor­tant thing is you make conces­sions first semester so you have everybody eligible for the sec­
see HOOPS I page 11 
Fencers perfect in weekend trip 
BY CHRIS FILLIO regards to training level." fashion, and were ph•asantly Sports Writer What that level is or was is a surprised with some of the moot point, as tlw wonwn peopl1~ fenring for tlw first 
The luck of the Irish prevailed started off the season 3-0 in time." for the Notre Dame fencing dual meet action. extending NotPworthy among thosp teams this past weekend in their winning stn~ak, which be­surprises w1~n~ the afon~nwn­more respects than one. gan at the end of last season, tioned Taliaferro( 12-0l and 
First, the four laundry bas­to nine matches. Lik1~wise, the sophomore epenist .lubba kets consisting of team uni­men's squads went 4-0, and Beshin at 9-1. forms. sweats and practice jer­they now have eapturnd twenty­As in the past, sophomore seys-which was due for pick­six dual meet victories in a row. epm~ist David Calderhead was up on Wednesday night-were The men's sabre team led the strong in running his early-sea­not consumed by the early charge with a 36-0 whitf'wash­son rPcord to 8-0. Senior Mark Thursday morning blaze at St. ing in individual bouts. Cris Gugel added a 6-1 finish, whilP Michael's. Much to the fencing Bagucr, Dan Yu and James Matt Mnrg1~n also had a good teams' delight they found their Taliaferro were all perfect at day at :{-1. clothing, valued at over five 12-0. "What might have been our thousand dollars, sitting in a "The sabre team had a pretty weakest weapon in the presf'a­room at the Joyce ACC instead good weekend," said senior son is no longer the ease," said of in a heap of ashes. sabreman Dan Yu. "The teams DnCieeo of the epee squad. onl' 
Second, the Irish squads we went up against weren't re­which has a tough job in filling traveled to the University of ally of the same caliber, except tlw shoes of graduated seniors Wisconsin in Madison and pro­for a couple fencers from Ted Fay and Todd Grifee. Both ceeded to do a number on Wisconsin. It's not really a fm1e1~rs competed in last year's Wisconsin, Minnesota. Chicago benchmark. though. We still NCM finals. and Lawrence, leaving those have to improve." Tlw men's foil team followed teams in their own heap of DeCicco expressed a sonw­suit by posting a 29-7 combined ashes. what different sentiment in his mark. Junior Phil I.nary was 
"Obviously, the results speak evaluation of the Irish perfor­undefeatf>d at 9-0 while tlw Sl'­for themselves," said head mance, crediting hard work nior duo of foil captain Joel coach Mike DeCicco of the per­and added coaching experience Clark (6-1) and Colin Gumbs (7­formance. "The kids went up as the decisive factors. 1J suffered but a singll~ setback there not knowing what to ex­· "I think that right now we are each. Sophomore Mike Trisko pect from Wisconsin and further along in our training helped out with a 4-1 record. Chicago. Those were two than I had hoped for," stated schools who we didn't know in DeCicco. "We started off in line see EPEE I page 13 
ND Hockey to face Huskies 
BY MIKE KAMRADT playing a bigger team and a Sports Writer team that played better," said Schafer. 
The Notre Dame hockey team The Irish will hope that they will look to return to its win­get the kind of defensive play ning ways this weekend as they this weekend that was evident play Lake Forest College in a in the win over St. Cloud. Senior home and home series. Friday's Lance Madson, who broke the game at the Joyce ACC will be­all-time save record for an gin at 7:30 as will the Saturday Irish goalie Saturday, will have contest at Lake ForPst (8:30 to continue his sharp play for EST). The Foresters are a the Irish to be successful. Division III school with a 2-2 The defenseman and for­record. Lake Forest has de­wards must provide the kind of feated University of Wisconsin­support they did Friday, when Stevens Point, last year's they kept the powerful lluskie Division III champion, and has offense on the perimeter and lost to #4-ranked University of broke up numerous breakaway Wisconsin. attempts. The Irish eannot af­
"We don't know much about ford to have a defensive per­them," commented coach Ric formance this weekend like they Schafer. "Except that they beat did on Saturday night. us 3 out of 5 last year." "Anytime you give up eight 
The Irish are coming off their goals, you need to shore up biggest win of the season when your defense," explained they beat the WCHA-bound St. Schafer. 
The Observer/ John Studebaker 
Cloud State Huskies 3-2 last The Irish will also attempt to 
Friday. However, the Irish lost
Notre Dame defenseman Eric Gregoire (29) and his teammates will face Lake Forest in a home and home 
the next night 8-2. 
series this weekend. The Irish boast a 6-2 record to date and are coming off last weekend's split with 
see HOCKEY I page 12
powerful St. Cloud. "We learned some lessons 




