

VOL. XXIII NO. 34 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Sen. Coats leads drugmeeting on campus · 

BY JOHN O'BRIEN 
News Copy Editor 
Law enforcement officers, prosecutors and legislators from across Indiana came to Notre Dame Wednesday for a drug abuse prevention confer­ence sponsored by U. S. Senator Dan Coats. 
The conference, entitled "Off the Streets: Drug Enforcement in Indiana," focused on the problems law enforcement agencies face in combatting the problem of illegal drugs in In­diana. 
"This is an awareness about drugs in our nation, an aware­ness that will lead to action. This action will lead to success in the war against drugs," said Coats. 
Coats, a ranking member of the U.S. Senate Subcommittee on Children, Family, Drugs and Alcoholism, said that the drug problem has "exploded across our landscape" since he took office in January. 
"One of my missions has been to attempt to bring the message of the impact of drugs on Indiana, on the industrial heartland, on the area I repre­sent to the state of Indiana" said Coats. 
South Bend Mayor Joseph Kernan said, "We face a very serious problem in our com­munity-that problem is drugs." He called the drug problem a "scourge" that af­fects all communities. 
According to David Link, dean of the Law School, Coats chose Notre Dame as a location for the conference because it was a convenient location in South Bend. "He was also at­tracted by the fact that Father Malloy was here," said Link. 

University President Father Edward Malloy is a member of Indiana Governor Evan Bayh's Committee for a Drug-Free In­diana. The head of that com­mittee, Jeff Modisett, serves as Drug Czar for the Bayh Admin-' istration. 
Malloy called the drug prob­lem a "very perplexing and dif­ficult social and moral issue Cubs, 
see DRUG/ page 5 


SOURCE: FBI Uniform Crime Reporting and Staff Calculations The Observer 
Bennett to be present as well. 
Notre Dame's Office of Public Relations and Infor­mation and sources in the Law School denied that Ben· nett was present or ex· pected. 
Bennett was scheduled to appear with Coats at a semi­nar Monday in Indianapolis. 
"We are not interested in 
see PROTEST I page 4 

Family Focus discusses effects of alcohol abuse 
sible type, the mascot, and the BY ROBERT KELLV caretaker. News Staff Kelly explained that three of 
these four types result in a 

In this week's Family Focus worsening of the alcoholic's si­discussion, Carolyn Kelly out­tuation and a denial of the real lined the damaging effects of problem of alcohol abuse in the alcohol abuse on the family unit family. and offered some ways to ap­One stereotype that Kelly ex­proach this problem. plored is the responsible type of 
Kelly used the analogy of a son or daughter, generally the mobile to describe alcohol as a type of student one would find family disease. Kelly explained at Notre Dame. This young that when one branch of the person is usually achievement mobile is disrupted by alcohol, oriented and successful in the whole structure is set into school and activities. motion. In the same way, when The presence of alcohol abuse one member of a family in the family upsets the changes, the whole family is af­"mobile" by depriving the son fected. or daughter of the praise and 
A short .film shown at the dis­affirmation he or she needs, cussion explained that there Kelly said. As a result, the child are four categories into which becomes insecure and unsure of children of alcoholics can usu­his abilities. ally be placed. These categories are the rebel type, the respon-see FAMILY I page 4 
. The Observer/ E.G. Bailey 
Ben Masel and Mana Farrow, both members of the National Organization to Reform Marijuana Laws (NORML), display their sign outside of Notre Dame's Law School Wednesday. Maria Farrow is also a member of Help Eliminate Marijuana Prohibition (HELP). 
Protestors call for marijuana legalization 

BY SARA MARLEY 
News Editor 
Two protesters held a banner which read "Marijuana Prohibition is the Gateway to Hard Drugs," Wednesday outside Notre Dame's Law School. 
Inside, a conference on law enforcement took place as part of Senator Dan Coats's weeklong program "Drugs: 
Ito • 1""\111\.il: Career chats The Observer/ E.G. Bailey 
Peace Corps representative Steve Rypkema speaks to sophomore James Suttle at the Arts and Letters Career Day held Wednesday afternoon. 
Fighting the War in Indi­ana." 
The protesters represented the National Organization to Reform Marijuana Laws (NORML), said Ben Masell of Madison, Wisconsin. 
Coats is a member of the Senate Subcommittee on Children, Family, Drugs and Alcoholism and Masell said he expected Bush Adminis­tration Drug Czar William 

Two murders cap 13 drug related bombings in Colombia 
Associated Press outbreak of bomb attacks since Marta Luz Lopez and Miguel government action against Soler was killed in front of 
drug lords, blamed for slaying Soler, a spokesman for the Bo­them. his house Tuesday by a man 
BOGOTA, Colombia-Gunmen a presidential candidate, went gota-based newspaper El El Espectador publisher who rode by on a motorcycle, on motorcycles killed two to war with the government Espectador told the Associated Guillermo Cano was assassi­El Espectador spokesman Al­employees of the newspaper El nearly two months ago. Press. nated by drug traffickers in a fonso Bernal told the Associ­Espectador on Tuesday in an Tuesday's outbreak of vio­Miss Lopez was administrator spray of submachine gun fire ated Press. apparent effort by cocaine traf­lence came during a visit to of the paper's Medellin office, Dec. 17, 1986, as he was leav­Miss Lopez was killed by a fickers to force the daily to end Colombia by U.S. Army Gen. and Soler was the daily's ing the newspaper in his car. shot in the neck, and her its anti-drug crusade. Maxwell Thurman, the head of circulation manager in the city A month ago, a car bomb ex­mother was wounded in a leg 
The shootings in Medellin the U.S. Southern Command of 2 million people. ploded beside the paper's Bo­while the two women sat in a follow 13 bombings reported in based in Panama. The newspaper has long suf­gota building, causing heavy car at a traffic light, the pa­three other Colombian cities Killed within an hour of each fered from attacks by drug damage and forcing the news­per's spokesman in Bogota overnight. It was the largest other Tuesday afternoon were traffickers angry at its calls for paper to cut back operations. said. 

page 2 The Observer Thursday, October 12, 1989 
WORLD BRIEFS 
Two hundred and thirteen pounds of pure cocaine were dropped early Tuesday from an aircraft into the bay of Guayama, Puerto Rico, and were seized by police. Sgt. Edwin Sollivan, head of the Guayama Police Division of Drugs and Narcotics, said the cocaine had an estimated street value of $200 million. Sollivan said the drug shipment came from Colombia since it was packaged in special cans, which he said was a common practice of Colombian drug runners. 
Libya's official news agency Tuesday assailed NATO's naval exercises in the Mediterranean, saying they threaten peace and will pollute the ocean. The monthlong "Deterrence Force" exercises began Monday in the western Mediterranean. NATO de­scribed the maneuvers as routine and said they .involve forces from the United States, Italy, Greece, Turkey, West Germany, Bri­tain, Spain and France. In a dispatch monitored in Rome, the news agency JANA said the exercises "flagrantly threaten peace and security in the Mediterranean. These hostile maneuvers dia­metrically threaten air and naval navigation." 
A three-eyed alien with a robot sidekick landed by UFO and made a boy vanish by zapping him with a pistol, a Moscow newspaper reported Tuesday, in a second day of strange tales in the state-run media. But as the bizarre saga of the space invasion of the city of Voronezh unfolded for a second day, a scientist whose words were used to buttress the first published report voiced doubts, and said he was in part misquoted. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
Vice President Dan Quayle forgot the name of one of the GOP's three statewide candidates in Richmond, Virginia at a luncheon featuring bringing about $125,000 to the GOP on Tuesday, no one seemed to mind when he forgot the name of one of the party's three statewide candidates. About 450 people attended the $125-a-person lunch honoring Republican candidate for governor J. Marshall Coleman, lieutenant governor nominee Eddy Dalton and attorney general candidate Joseph Benedetti. A couple of dozen people paid $3,000 each to attend a private reception with Quayle. 
A Boston man was $1 million richer for a brief mo­ment, until police arrested him on a larceny charge for allegedly running off with a bag of money that fell from an armored car. "lie said he thought it was a bag of laundry," said police Officer Paul J>ainten, who with an armored car guard arrested the man Tuesday about 100 yards from where dozens of money bags fell from a truck onto the Broadway Bridge. Painten said the white bag, about the size of a pillow case, was marked Bank of Boston in black letters. A seal indicated it held $1,040,000. 
University of Mississippi freshmen must take an aca­demic course that covers social issues and tries to engender an appreciation of cultural and ethnic diversity. The university on Tuesday also announced the creation of a Minority Affairs Council to establish programs and policies to increase minority participa­tion in campus life. A school spokesman said the freshman course should begin in the fall. Earlier this year, members of the school's Beta Theta Pi fraternity stripped and bound two members, wrote racial slurs on their bodies and dumped them on the campus of predominantly black Rust College. The students contended they did not know their prank had racial overtones. 
WEATHER 

Mild 
Cloudy this morning, then clearing by afternoon. Highs in the upper 60s. Mostly clear and mild tonight and Friday. Lows tonight inthe middle 40s. Highs Friday in the lower 70s. 

ALMANAC 
On October 12: e In 1492: Christopher Columbus discovered the New World as his ships arrived in the present-day Bahamas. e In 1933: Bank robber John Dillinger escaped from a jail in Allen County, Ohio. with the help of his gang, who killed the sheriff. e In 1960: Soviet premier Nikita Khrushchev disrupted a 
U.N. General Assembly session by pounding his desk with his shoe during a dispute. e In 1977: The U.S. Supreme Court heard arguments in the "reverse discrimination" case of Allan Bakke, a white student denied admission to the Univer­sity of California Medical School at Davis. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closlnt~• for October f f , f 989 

Volume in shares 
193.31 Million 
NYSE Index  
197.81  -f-1.19  
S&P Composite  
356.99  +2.14  

Dow Jones Industrials 2,773.36 +11.97 Precious Metals Gold 1} $1.00 to $362.00 I oz. Silver it 4.3¢ to $5.143 I oz. 
Source: AP 

lnforma11on compiled from Observer w1res and Observer stall reports 
The quest for the easy 'A' is a futile effort 
I have a vision of the perfect class. This class will be interesting, will entail some sort of en­joyable work like watching movies, and boost my GPA because of the high mark the excellent professor will give me. For 3 1/2 years I have been searching for this perfect class, but it has eluded me. 
My friends constantly come to me and say " Bias, have I got a class for you. It's so easy you'd have to be an idiot not to get an A." Un­fortunately, their easy A's turn into my generous Cs. 
It doesn't matter to me that I'm paying 15 grand a year to learn something from this fine institution. I want a class that will yield maximum results with a minimum of effort. Something fluffy like the "Evolution of the American Family from the Cleavers to the Cos­bys" would shield my plummeting GPA from the barrage of B's in my Metaphysical Nothingness and Existential Realities seminars. 
I want to go to a graduate school, a MAJOR graduate school or get a great job in Chicago so I can watch the Cubs lose year after year from the top of my roof-I can't decide which. What more can I ask for out of life? What else is there? 
My friends had informed me of their latest ex­perience of introductory business courses. They assured me of the simplicity of the material and the subtle humor of the instructors. They even had movies and the books had pictures, a pre­requisite for a truly enjoyable class. So with my career objectives in mind, my friends' assur­ances and my course selection book in hand, I decided to enroll in two introductory business courses. 
What better way to supplement my lib­eral education than with some basic business classes and more importantly boost my GPA? In the back of mind I realized that my actions were inconsistent with my desire for a liberal educa­tion; after all, I had not come to college to be trained like a robotic tool and take my place with the other cogs in the wheels of corporate America. 
But I sacrificed my lofty ideals to the almighty god of the high GPA and enrolled in my courses. At first, I believed that I had found the elusive promised land of easy courses. 
We talked about TV commercials and shows in class and the textbooks were easy to read, something unheard of in PLS books. Those nu­merous digressions in Aristotle's works and the myriad of ambiguous pronouns in Kant's works did not plague me in my business textbooks. Reading Descartes' "Method" would be so easy if he had only highlighted his key points in bold and set them out in the margin' in red print in case you missed them the first time through like my textbooks. 
But the best thing about these books was that 

OF INTEREST 
Actor Giancarlo Esposito's presentation, "Links Between Art and the Real Life Portrayal of Minorities in Film," is postponed until Monday, October 30. It will be at 7:00 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium at Medeleva Hall. 
An Autumn Lunch is being served at the Center for Social Concerns today from 11:30 to 
1:30 p.m. All are welcome. 
Irish Accent will be performing comedy and improv tonight at Theodore's, 9:30 to 11:00 p. m. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) IS published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacat,on penods The Observer is published by students of the Un1verS1Iy of Noire Dame and Sam! Mary's College Subscnptlons may be pur· chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by wnting The Observer. 
The Observer 1S a member ol The Assoc1ated Press. All reproduction nghls are reserved 


'I sacrifice my high ideals to the 
almighty god of the 
high GPA.' 
. 

., John Blasi 
.... \;. " Accent Editor 
they had graphics and J>ICTUHES. Not just or­dinary boring pictures either. There were pic­tures of dancing raisins and Mickey Mouse. 
I was seduced by the fascinating material and the faux marble cover of my beautiful text­books, perhaps I thought they were ancient Grecian artifacts or something. I embraced the definitions of product and was entranced by our classes' discussions of debits and credits, toilet paper and dancing raisins. Yes, I loved my classes. 
I eagerly anticipated and answered every "feed me" question my professors gave me to the dismay of my classmates, the crossword puzzle hounds. These students didn't seem to share my enthusiasm for our material and spent most of their time doing the daily crossword puzzle in The Observer. They even began to have races during class to see who could finish the puzzle first. 
My enthusiasm for my classes ended when one Sunday at mass I became frightened after I in­serted a thank you for the marketing miracle we call the Supermarket in the Lord's Prayer. 
I began to wonder if the few brain cells I had left would turn into the Grandma Gooseberry's Jam we discussed in class the previous week. Had my head become like that cream filled golden spongecake, the Twinkee, that jumps in the saddle and lassos Oreo cookies in distress. 
My mind had moved from the metaphysical to the mundane. My thoughts, once filled with the lofty but useless notions of Being qua Being per se and per accidens were now filled with strategies for selling Ho flo's and nylons. 
The very uselessness of the Being theories was the reason I enjoyed them so much. Selling Ilo Ho's and nylons was far too practical-I could lose my mind. 
I dropped one of my courses and somehow managed to pull a passing grade in the other. My quest for the perfect class, however, contin­ues. So,if you know of a great class with easy tests and and an interesting prof ... 
John Blasi is a senior PLS major and the Accent Editor. The views expressed herewithin are not necessarily the views of The Observer. 
Senior photos absolute final day will be this Saturday, October 14, in Hoom 108 LaFortune Student Center, from 8:00 a.m. to 
5:00 p.m. To sign up or ask questions, call the Dome Office at 239-7524 or Adele Lanan at Student Activities at 239-7308. 
Anthropos, a society for the promotion of human dignity and solidarity will meet tonight at 9:15p.m. in the Huddle of Lafortune Student Center. The discussion will be whether living 
beings exist as  machines,  as  collections or as  
true unities. Call Fernando  at 232-0550 for  
more information.  

Design E~)L ................. Tricia Grohman Design AssllarL.............. Kristin Costello Typeselas....................... Molly Schwartz ...................................................... Dan Towers NBws Edler ............................... Greg Lucas News Copy Edler................. Sarah Voigt Sports Copy Editors ............... Ken T ysaic VIeWpoint Editor ................... Kevin Reisch Viewpoint Copy Editor .............................. . ................................................. Janice O'Leary Viewpoint Layout .................. Katie Foster Accent Editor ..................... Colleen Cronin Accent Copy Editor ................Terri Walsh Accent Designer..................... Sarah Fisko l'ypill&.............................. Erin Schirtzinger NO Day Editor ................... Colleen Malloy Phomgn11:ta ........... Andrew McCloskey Ads Oaslgners................ Shannon Roach ...................... Mindy Breen,Jeanne Naylor ..................... Jeanne Naylor, Sheila Jones .................................. Quinn Satepauhoodle EkBnllss Edler........................ Uz Panzica Business Copy EdlooL........ Mike Kolar Business l..aycU................ David Klawrtzr 

--~-------~~ 
Thursday, October 12, 1989 The Observer 
page 3 

Economist discusses American labor unions 
BY PATRICK HEALY 
Staff Reporter 
Union negotiator Edmund Ayoub addressed the new roles of American labor unions in what he called "the new eco­nomic environment" in a lecture Wednesday night. 
Ayoub stated that labor's changing role was a result of the decline of U.S. competitive­ness and slower real growth since the 1960's. These eco­nomic factors caused manage­ment to demand back many concessions the union had fought for and won over sev­eral decades, said Ayoub. "The pendulum had swung" away from the days of union strength, Ayoub said. 
As industries such as steel. autos, and textiles continued to suffer, management and labor had to restructure their rela­tionship with one another, he said. 
Ayoub said that this led to labor to evolve from an organi·· zation whose function was to bargain with management to one whose function was to participate alongside them. This included participation in decision-making, equity owner­ship of the company, and rep­resentation of labor on the board of directors, said Ayoub. 
Ayoub emphasized that labor 
must take on this new partici­
patory role in order for the 
U.S. economy to be competitive 
John P. O'Malley 


Sales Representative New Memberships or Transfers 
llliMOIS • IMDIAMA 
Auto & Property Insurance 

CHICAGO 
AAA-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 


MOTOR 
5922 GRAPE ROAD


CLUB 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 
219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 Please ask for John O'Malley. 


Friday the 13th Is Your Lucky Day!
Smile... 
frozenyofi!urt


thattasteSlike
•

teecream. 
©rRi~[Q)~W 

ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION 
All Toppings & Waffle Cones 

13¢ each Friday Only 

e Raffle Drawings eln Store Specials all weekend eFree Student Discount Cards eFree Samples of the Finest Gourmet Yogurt in Town 

I Can't Believe It's YOGURT! 1635 Edison Rd. South Bend, Indiana 46637 219-271-9540 2 blocks East of N.D. stadium 
in the international economy. He noted three developments in the new relationship between labor and management; the emergence of profit-sharing, Employee Stockholder Owner­ship Planning {ESOP), and "participatory involvement." 
He said that profit-sharing and ESOPs serve as insurance for the unions for concessions they made to help the company. There is also a premise in both of workers' attitudes improving because of their interests in the company. 
Ayoub said the notion behind participatory involvement is that workers should have much more input in management be­cause it utilizes the knowledge and skill of the workers. 
Ayoub said cooperation be­tween labor and management is difficult because "the history of mistrust is a strong obstacle" to be overcome in a short time. He noted that "there is no nat­ural tendency toward coopera­tion in America." 
For agreement between man­agement and labor there must be acceptance and respect on both sides, Ayoub said. A bal­ance of power is also essential to a fair agreement, he added. 
Ayoub concluded by stating that he believed "unions are an essential component of demo­cratic society," and that "there is a trade union in our future, of that I am certain." 

Hit and run 
The Observer/ E.G. Bailey Security members examine a student who was alegedly hit by a car while riding his bike on the road outside of the Center for Social Concerns. Riding a bike on campus can be a dangerous endeavor. 








Latin summit considers drug trade 
Associated Press 
ICA, Peru -Police action against cocaine suppliers is fu­tile unless the United States and Europe reduce the demand that drives the illicit trade, President Carlos Andres Perez of Venezuela said Wednesday. 
Perez spoke on opening day of a summit of seven Latin American presidents in this desert city that also is to con­sider expelling Panama as the eighth member of the Group of Eight regional organization. 
Panama's membership was suspended in 1988 after Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega ar­ranged the dismissal of Presi­dent Eric Delvalle, who had tried to fire Noriega as military commander. 
The Venezuelan leader called Noriega's military rule a "masked dictatorship." Presi­dent Alan Garcia of Peru used his opening remarks to "express publicly the Peruvian people's and the Peruvian gov­ernment's repudiation and con­demnation of the military dicta­torship." 
Peru and Venezuela were ex­pected to push for expulsion of Panama, but diplomatic sources said Mexico and some other members felt that would amount to meddling with the 
internal  affairs  of  another  
country.  
In his remarks  on  the drug  

trade, Peres said: "The more demand grows in the north, the more production will grow in the south. Police actions will be useless unless demand is re­duced." 
Other opening statements also expressed support for Peru, Colombia and Bolivia, which argue that President Bush's emphasis on attacking the cocaine traffic at the source is not enough. 
The summit began the day after Presidents Garcia, Virgilio Barco of Colombia and Jaime Paz Zamora of Bolivia invited Bush to attend a drug summit in Latin America within 90 


days. Bush accepted immedi­ately. 
Paz did not remain for the Group of Eight meeting because Bolivia is not a member. Garcia and Barco were joined by Perez of Venezuela, Carlos Salinas de Gortari of Mexico, Jose Sarney of Brazil, Carlos Menem of Ar­gentina and Julio Sanguinetti of Uruguay at the third summit since the regional organization was formed in 1987. 
The three-day meeting is be­ing conducted in closed session at the Hotel Las Dunas on the outskirts of lea, a city of 350,000 people 185 miles southeast of Lima. 
An army battlion of 300 sol­diers guarded the hotel and 3,000 plainclothes policemen circulated in the city in case of attacks by Shining Path, a Maoist guerrilla group that be­gan fighting Peruvian govern­ments in 1980. The insurgency has cost 15,000 lives by gov­ernment count. 
page 4 The Observer Thursday, October 12, 1989 
Class 
continued from page 5 
We've written jokes for Letterman &Leno, we even designed that bubble that the Pope rides around in ... IRISH ACCENT performs at Theodore's, 9:30 Thursday. 
NEEDED: RIDE TO NEW ORLEANS AREA FOR OCTOBER 
BREAK. WILL HELP WITH $ CALL MATI@ X3106 
HEY ALL YOU REALLY COOL OFF-CAMPUS SENIOR&­CHECK OUT THE BULLETIN BOARD BETWEEN THE HUDDLE AND LAFORTUNE FOR CURRENT AND UPCOMING CLASS EVENTS 
;~,-v-iniaritioiis-ior-ihis-'Unii:_____ _ 
1.) To WISH Eileen Happy B-day. 2.) To GREET the 3 Sisters Cast 3.) To EXCITE the cast about our most awsome show which is only 5 weeks awayllll (Siiri Intention) 
-Tony Tusenbach Thanks to PW residents for 
decorating for the MONOPOLY 
SYR and making it fun for every­
one -The PW staff 
••sELLING PITI STUD Ttx•• 
CALL CARMINA #2890 
ATIENTION STUDENTS: 
Macintosh extravaganza is coming! November 15. Be on the watch! 
MAC IS WHAT YOU MAKE IT.. .. Think about rt.. 
ANYONE INTERESTED IN 
HELPING OUT WITH PAPER RECYCLING, PLEASE CALL LAURA MANZI AT X3484. 
Going to MIAMI of OHIO? I need a ride there the wknd. of Oct. 14. Will help with $. Call Sarah at #3484. 
ENGLISH LESSONS. Experienced teacher of English to foreigners offers private lessons. $8 per hour. 232-6831. 

I would like to thank the authors of the Gays Stepping out on the Notre Dame campus; it has made my decision to step out a lot easier. Thank You Very Much, I Love You All. 
Mike C 

SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS I join friends at Sr. Bar for a FRIDAY THE THIRSTEENTH 
bash! 

SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! 
SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! 
watch the NO/AIR FORCE game at Gippers ,U.S. 31 North! 5 cent HOT DOGS and ... 
FROSTY MUGS! SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! 
TO THE GUYS IN FLANNER 624 (ESP. SPARKEY, PAT, AND OUR SKIING STAR) :THANKS FOR KNOWING THE TRUE MEANING OF "FRIEND". WE LOVE YOU I THE FARLEY GIRLS NEED A RIDE TO MPLS/ST. PAUL FOR OCT. BREAK! WILL HELP WITH GAS$$ CALL LARA X4526 OR MICHELLE X2696 
Call Elizabeth-Anne Crisp 
Wish her Happy 21st! 
Johnny, Stephen, Patrick, Timmy 
Adams 
She is a terrific cousin! 
Going to MIAMI of OHIO? I need a ride there the wknd. of Oct. 14. Will help with $. Call Sarah at #3484. 
ENGLISH LESSONS. Experienced teacher of English to foreigners offers private lessons. $8 per hour. 232-6831. 
MIAMI FLIGHTs• MIAMI FLIGHTS 
Round-trip airfares to Miami or Fort Lauderdale. Depart November 23 from Midway (Chicago); return November 27 to Midway (Chi.) . $239 for students, $265 for others. Tix sold on first ­come, first-serve basis, and are non-refundable. Anthony Travel 1-800-?DOMERS 

NEEDED: RIDE FOR 2 TO BUFFALO AREA AFTER USC GAME. WILL PAY$. CALL KEITH AT X1045. 
DILLON HALL CORDIALLY 
INVITES YOU TO SPEND THE WEEKEND WITH CLINT EASTWOOD 
-FRIDAY­
9:00 DIRTY HARRY 

11 :30 HEARTBREAK RIDGE -SATURDAY­
9:00 EVERY WHICH WAY BUT LOOSE 
11 :30 OUTLAW JOSEY WALES 
FREE--IN THE DILLON PARTY ROOM 
LOVE BITES -Del Leppard -SWBHC 
WHY DO STARS SUDDENLY APPEAR ... WHEN •you· ARE 
NEAR?
.......................... 

I need a ride to Indy on Wed. Oct. 18. Will pay for gas. 
Tim x.3000 

CRIME OF THE WEEK 
The crime of the week is the theft of computer equip­ment from O'Shaugnessy Hall. Security reports that sometime between 1 a.m. and 7 a.m. on Feb. 2, 1989 an unknown person or per­sons entered the computer lab on the second floor of O'Shaugnessy and took five Macintosh SE computers valued at $15,000. If you have any information about this or any crime at Notre Dame, call Crime Stoppers at 288-STOP. You won't be asked to give your name and you 'II be eligible for a cash reward. 

Protest 

continued from page 1 
disrupting anything, only in expressing our views," Masell said. 
Masell said the group was twice approached by Notre Dame Security, who asked them to leave because Uni­versity policy is that protesters must have a permit to be on campus. 
"I said, when an otherwise private University holds a U.S. Senate hearing on campus, my understanding of First Amendment rights arc that we can be here," Masell said. 
According to Masell, every­thing said at the conference will go on record although Coats is the only subcommittee member present. 
In a mailing about the meet­ing received by The Observer, sessions held Monday in Indi­anapolis and Wednesday morn­ing in Fort Wayne were labeled "United States Senate Hearing" while the other three meetings were called "conferences." 
NOHML works toward the le­galization of marijuana to pro­vide an alternative to drugs like cocaine and crack. 
"We focus on towns where heavy marijuana enforcement coincides with heavy coke and crack problems," Masell said. 

Family 

continued from page 1 
The next stereotype which both the film and Kelly dis­cussed is termed the "mascot" in the film. This child gives an outward appearance of being happy, lively, and friendly in order to cover up the true problems that alcohol has caused in his family, Kelly said. As a result of this coverup, the family continues to deny the problem of alcohol abuse, and the alcoholic continues to abuse. 
The film established a third category of the "caretaker." This type of child tries to "mother the alcoholic parent" and will go to great lengths to make sure that the parent is happy, Kelly said. While this might seem beneficial, Kelly ex­plained that the child is hurt because he always puts his own feelings last. 
The "rebel" is the healthiest stereotype of a child that Kelly outlined. While the typical rebel does not seem healthy, Kelly explained that the child is dealing with the problem of al­cohol abuse correctly. This child realizes that the problem is caused by the alcoholic and not by himself. 
T E L E c OMMUNI C A T I 0 N s 
Ifyou think you've come far in the pastfour years, you won't believe howfar you'll go in the next five. 
If you've spent the past four years developing a solid technical background, we have an extraordinary opportunity for your 
next five: The Travelers Telecommunications Technology Management Program (TTMP). 
The most comprehensive training pro­gram of its kind in the financial services indus­try, TTMP is a five-year introduction to a state-of-the-art telecommunications environ­ment. Through a variety of rotational assign­ments-and supplemental classroom study­TTMP is singly focused on developing the man­agers who will keep us on the cutting edge. 
TTMP is not easy and it's not for every­one. But, if you're looking to develop the full range of skills needed to manage the most sophisticated telecommunications technology available, there's simply no better place to begin your career. 
Find out more. Pick up a copy of our brochure in your placement office. We11 be on campus November 16th. Sign up byTuesday, October 17th. Or send your resume to: John 
S. Breckenridge, The Travelers Companies, 1-30-CR, OneTowerSquare, Hartford, CT06183. 



TheTravelerSj 
You're better off under the Umbrella~ 

The Travelers Companies, Hartford, Connecticut 06183. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
---------------------·----------------------------------~--~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~ 
Thursday, October 12, 1989 The Observer page 5 
and several pieces of pending several federal law enforcement cation. "Education about drugs that the law enforcement agen­legislation as examples of the officials, including James and their consequences is cies must continue to share efforts of the Governor's office. Richmond, U. S. attorney for needed, preferably at the first, personnel and resources in
Drug 
continued from page 1 
According to Modisett, Bayh's Indiana's Northern District; second, and third grade levels." order to succeed. 
that faces our country and our commission is considering leg­Agent-in-Charge of the FBI in The conference also featured Attending the conference 
world today." islation that would allow the Indiana Bill Ervin; David Mc­presentations from local law were law enforcement officers 
He also called for better uti­state to place wire taps in drug Dougal, Agent-in-Charge of the enforcement officials such as from across Indiana including lization of all resources in the cases, a bill to establish a Indianapolis district of the Neil Moore, chief of police in Chief of the Indiana State Police war against drugs. "Two re­statewide reward program for Federal Drug Enforcement Fort Wayne; Darrell Gunn of Lloyd Jennings, lawyers in­sources in particular have been anonymous tipsters in drug Agency (DEA); and John the South Bend Police Depart­volved in drug enforcement, under-utilized, those are the in­cases, and a bill allowing Twomey, deputy director of the ment's Narcotics division; and and also observers such as the stitutions of higher education licensing agencies to revoke the U.S. Marshals Service in Indi­Brian Jennings, deputy director director of Indiana's chapter of and the Churches," said Malloy. license of any professional con­ana. of the the Marion County Metro Mothers Against Drunk Driving 
Modisett said that there is a victed of a drug felony. Twomey said that unless the Drug Task Force. (MADD) and a spokesman for "great concern, a great interest In addition, Modisett said drug problem is put under con­Jennings' call for better dis­U.S. Rep. John Hiler. in doing something to stop -the that a bill will probably be trol, "the future is bleak." He tribution of funds received Tuesday's conference was problem of drugs," and that the passed to suspend the driver's proposed a three-part solution through seizure of drug offend­part of a statewide tour by Bayh administration is licenses of drug offenders. "In that consists of stopping the ers' property was one of many Coats and his wife called attempting many different talking to teenagers, we have supply of drugs, enforcing drug calls for more funding for "Drugs: Fighting the War the approaches to the drug found that revoking their laws to a "zero tolerance" level drug programs. Indiana." The tour included problem. driver's privileges would hit and stopping the demand for According to Dunn, his divi­other conferences in Merrillville 
He cited the formation of an them where it hurts," said drugs. sion has confiscated "$293,000 and Evansville, speeches at interagency council on drugs Modisett. McDougal echoed the senti­in cash, $2 million in drugs, area high schools and United that coordinates spending on Among the panel members to ments of many of the speakers and several autos and homes" States Senate hearings in Indi­drugs among all state agencies speak at the conference wen~ by calling for better drug edu-in the last two years. He said anapolis and Fort Wayne. 
Everybody in the London Program 

thanks MOLLY HYLAND for organizing and publicizing the continued from page 12 Wednesday night dinners at the North Dining Hall. Thanks from the JUST KIDDING, MATI! 

Class 
London Program, too! WE STILL LOVE YOU GRACE 
MEN. TURN ON THE STROBE, FOR SALE: USC and PITI STUD. 
GET OUT THE LAMP SHADE­
Will take best offer. (Rosi #2170). AND GET READY TO ROCK!! BY THE WAY, WE MAY PUTOUT. BUT WE STILL WONT BUY THE 
CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable BEER! 

atmosphere, daily & weeklyLOVE, spec1als, pool table, English darts, THOSE WACKY PE WOMEN and great company. 234-3541 FLAVORED POPCORN SALTS 

FOR SALE!! CALL JENN TO 
PURCHASE-X4885 

IRISH MUSIC: THE WORD TOUR JOHN KENNEDY AND FRIENDS SATURDAY AT CLUB 23 
Students: Check out the Macintosh Loan-to-Own program for smart & inexpensive financing. 
need ride from StL to NO on 1 0/26 will pay $/drive. Dave X1808 
Happy Birthday 



Meg! 
Love, Betsy, Maura and Liz 
ADOPTION: Loving, professional couple in Midwest wishes to adopt 
newborn. We offer stable and happy home, financial security, welcoming extended family. 
PLEASE call collect 513-751-6711 after 6:30pm weekdays, anytime weekends.Attorney involved. 
October Break Ride needed to Detroit Area for October Break. Will share gas. Want to leave after USC game and return anytime after Thursday. 
Please call Matt @x1650 
ADOPTION is a beautiful beginning. Your baby will thrive as a loved member of our happy family. Our family can't grow any other way. Medical/counseling expenses paid. Call collect anytime 0-317-497-9939. 

NEED RIDE from D.C. after break! If need help with driving/expenses, call Stacy at x4120. 
HAPPY B-DAY GAJ!!! YO, WOMAN! HAPPY 19th! NO MATIER HOW MUCH I'VE SCREWED WITH YOUR MIND OVER THE YEARS, I'M STILL GLAD YOU'RE HERE. THANKS 
FOR HELPING ME OUT. 

WARMEST SALUTATIONS, 
KLJ 

Vivacious blonde chic needs ride to Western PA eve. 10/19 or morn 10/20. Share driving and $. Call x2627. 
P.W.'s MONOPOLY SYR was a great SUCCESS thanks to commissioners Colleen Ryan, Megan Hanley and Laurie Hollen­
beck and the section leaders. -ThePWstaff 
SMC -NO STUDENTS SUMMER PROGRAMS -LONDON (MAY 23­JUNE 22) ROME (JUNE 17-JULY 
16) TRAVELIN IRE., SCOT., FRANCE, GER., & SWITZ. CLASSES IN BIO., BUEC, HIST., SOC., & ITALIAN. MEETING MON. OCT. 16 AT 7:00P.M. IN CARROLL HALL (SMC), PIZZA, SLIDES, FORMER PARTICIPANTS, FACULTY, & PASSPORT PHOTOS FOR MORE INFO. CALL DR. BLACK 284-4460 OR 272-3762 
Coming Thursday to Theodore's 
<«IRISH ACCENT>» 

Notre Dame's very own theater troupe goes comedy-improv!!! 9:30-THURSDAY-Theodores 
BE THERE! 
see CLASS/ page 4 
St. Mary's & Notre Dame Students! 
Student Art Forum 

meeting tonight 
October 12 7 p.m. Snite Museum 

"'NEW YORK STORIES' IS A MUST!" 
-US-' TODA't, '-1•~• Cl~•~ 

NEW YORK STORIES 
lfllll:.·lhudtstone 
., Pk:IU!n 
Cinema at the Snite 

FRIDAY 7:30 , 9:30 
Can You Defend, Explain and Teach Roman Catholic Dogmas? Can You Refute Its Opponents? Interested? $1.00 tor Catalog of Audio Tapes; uses scripture and reason only. Also errors of Protestant Doctrines ARM 38 Charlotte Grove Hopewell Jet. NY 12533 
Just 4 months of graduate-level study at The Phila­delphia Institute's nationally acclaimed ABA-ap­proved program will pre1!)are you for a successful 
career in one of many new and emerging specialties of the law. 
0 Administrative and 0 International Trade Public Law Law and Business 0 Corporate Finance 0 Litigation and Business Law Management 0 Employee Benefit 0 Real Estate Law 
Plans 0 The Law School 0 Fiduciary Transition Program Management I lousing, l•"inancial Aid, 
0 Financial Planning Merit Sch.,Jarships and Tax Law 
available. :'lationwide Job l'lucemenl.
0 General Practice 
options: 
New Career Paths in Law & Business 
I 
The Philadelphia Institute 
Send for a free booklet. Or calll-800-289-6321. Name ________________________________________ 
Address _________________________________ 
City---------------------------------------­
State ------------------Zip___________________ 
Phune _____________Collegc _________--::-:----:-,.....-c 
(Yr. of Grad) 
Mail to: The Philadelphia Institute 1926 Arch St., Philadelphia, PA 19103 

-----·------------~~----~--.­



Business
page 6 Thursday, October 12,1989 
After criticism, regulators plan to sell FADA 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Federal regulators said Tuesday that they will try to sell the Federal Asset Disposition Association, a quasi-private company created to manage and sell sour loans and real estate from failed savings institutions. 
FADA in structure is a private financial institution, but it is wholly owned by the federal government. 
Until early last year, it was under intense congressional scrutiny after critics complained that FADA had grown into a bloated, inefficient bureaucracy mired in political favortism and insider dealing. 
The Resolution Trust Corp., a two-month-old government agency created to handle failed S&Ls, said it will accept bids until Oct. 31 for a sale to settle no later than Nov. 30. 
If no bids are acceptable, FADA will be taken over by the government and its 275 employees offered government jobs working for the RTC. 
FADA manages about $3 billion in real estate and loans from failed thrifts, having disposed of $1.3 billion in the four years since it was created. 
FADA's purchaser will 
acquire offices in Washington, Los Angeles, Atlanta, Denver and Dallas, a computer system, office furnishings and not much else. 
The sale will not include the agency's name, stock, charter as a financial institution, cash or the right to retain government management contracts. 
John Wills, president of FADA, said his organization offers buyers a core of real estate experts ready to participate in a flood of work as the government attempts to resolve the S&L mess, including the sale of an estimated $100 billion in hard-to-sell real estate and bad loans. 

"If you intend to get into the asset management business, it's one way to way get the largest group of professionals that have expertise in managing these troubled assets coming out of the thrift industry," he said. 
Wills acknowledged past criticism, but said: "Every single rock in FADA was turned over and examined. If anything, because of the intense scrutiny, we came out of it much more sound than any comparable organization.'' 
Wills said about 40 companies have expressed varying degrees of interest in FADA. But industry officials believe the core of serious buyers is much smaller. 
The successful bidder would have three alternatives: seek management contracts from the HTC, compete to buy property outright from the HTC or offer its management services to financial institutions and others that end up owning the S&L property, Wills said. 
J.E. Hobert Cos., an Alexandria, Va., company specializing in the management of distressed real estate, is among the organizations considering making an offer for FADA, according to the company chairman. 
Congress continues to struggle with capital gains tax 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Senate Democratic leader accused the White House Tuesday of trying to scuttle congressional talks aimed at ending the partisan stalemate over a Republican­backed plan to cut the capital gains tax. 
House and Senate leaders of both parties met for nearly two hours but reached no agreement in their dispute, which has delayed Senate work on a deficit-reduction bill. 
Unless the budget-cutting measure is passed by Monday, spending cuts in many defense and domestic programs will be automatically triggered by the Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduction law. 
The bargaining, which began last week, resumed as congressional experts estimated the size of the spending cuts that would occur Monday. Their non-binding estimate: $41.3 billion, out of a $1.2 trillion budget. 
The sticking point in the deficit-reduction talks has been GOP efforts to have the Senate vote on a plan to reduce the capital gains tax rate, which President Bush promised to fight for during his election campaign. 
Leaders of both parties have been maneuvering for parliamentary advantages in how that vote will occur. They have been exploring ways to keep the capital gains cut --:­along with other controversial provisions -from being attached to the Senate's $14 billion deficit-reduction bill, which is considered must-pass legislation. 
Asked Tuesday if the administration would accept a stripped-down deficit-cutting measure in exchange for a separate Senate vote on capital gains later, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said, "We believe the capital gains provision should be a part" of the bill. 
After Tuesday's meeting of congressional leaders, Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, D-Maine, said Fi . .tzwater's comments had "complicated" the talks. 

"It appears that the White House is intent on torpedoing this discussion," he said. 
He added, "The administration doesn't really care about the deficit." 
The House last week approved its own $11 billion deficit-reduction bill that contained a two-year capital gains tax cut, an extension of child-care programs, a rollback of Medicare benefits for elderly people with serious, long-term diseases, and other controversial provisions. 
The House provision would make the maximum capital gains tax rate 19.6 percent for two years, instead of the current maximum of 28 percent (33 percent for some taxpayers). 
Democrats and Hepublicans agree that slimming down that bill -and figuring out a way to deal with the numerous initiatives in contains -is such a difficult task that avoiding the Gramm-Rudman cuts is all but impossible. 
"You're not going to avoid" the automatic cuts, said Senate Republican leader Bob Dole of Kansas. "I think we're all pretty much in agreement on that." 

Club Memberships Shirts $25 checks only 
I! • I ALUMNI )~:=~::::~:::::::*::~:~·:'!¥!m·~~:~:~~=: -SENIOR ==:~::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::~:r::::::m~~-::.~;.~====:==c 


i!:CLUB 
~lru U[Q)~W[lJW00©[fD 
Noon-2p.m. Subs, Pizza, Fries, Nachoes, Chicken Salad Croissants, Burgers, and Drinks... 
Fli'~rrlJrp\V/ 'l{lhJ~[i':~i!\VJ iJ <§}~lhJ 9-2 LIVE ... Calcutta Rain Tons 0' Specials 
Closed Saturday Nite, sorry 


The DePaul University Professional Master of Science in Accountancy Program 
1990 LA&S GRADUATES: A Special Announcement concerning Careers in Business Specifically for Liberal Arts and Sciences Students. 
The School of Accountancy of DePaul University, Chicago, Illinois, a 75-year leader in innovative accounting education, offers to selected graduates of prestigious Uberal Arts and Sciences programs the Professional Master of Science in Accountancy. The program is offered in conjunction with the nation's leading accounting firms, is highly competitive, and restricted to students sponsored by the participating accounting firms. 
The IS-month program entails: 

• 
immediate (June 1990) employment in the Chicago office of a sponsoring accounting firm. 

• 
an accelerated course of study in business and accounting -a growth industry -at Chicago's DePaul University. 


Successful completion of the DePaul Professional MSA program results in: 
• 
A Master of Science in Accountancy degree from DePaul University 

• 
Full-time business and accounting expenence with a major accounting firm 

• 
Eligibility to sit for the CPA Examination in Illinois 

• 
Broad career opportunities, and advancement, in professional accounting with your sponsoring firm. 


Participation is restricted to candidates sponsored by participating accounting firms. 
The Professional MSA Program begins mid-June, 1990. 
For more information on the Professional MSA Program, contact the placement office 
on this campus, which is cooperating with this program, or Dr. John T. Ahern, Jr., 
Drrector, School of Accountancy, DePaul University, 25 E. Jackson, Chicago, Illinois 60604 
(312) 341-8770. ' 



Viewpoint
Thursday, October 12, 1989 
pa e 7 
------------~ 


The ~Obset:Ver-­
P 0. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 

1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Cocc1a Rich Iannelli 

Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor .... .Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager .....Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager..........Alison Cocks Accent Editor .John Blas1 Systems Mgr. .Bernard Brennmkmeyer Photo Editor Eric Bailey OTS Director. . ....... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chnstine Gill Controller ................. Anne Lindner 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi· ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­ICieS of the adm1n1stration of either 1nstitut1on. The news is reported as accurately and ob­JeCtively as possible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of the maJority of the follow1ng. Ed1tor-1n-Chief. Managing Editor. Executive News Editor. Viewpoint Editor. Sports Ed1tor. Accent Editor, Photo Ed1tor. Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters, and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varymg opinions on campus, through letters. 1s encouraged 
LETTERS 

Graduate students plan for improved 
CIA engages in necessary evils to integration into university social life protect human rights and justice 
Dear Editor: acting upon the need, we can Dear Editor: it criticism. No serious person 
In his column "State of the help to improve the inner com­The world in which we live is can deny that these actions University: There's Boom for munity of the university. not ideal. We live in a shadowy have resulted in tragic errors Bettering" (Oct. 4, 1989), Hegis Thomas R. Curran world in which there are forces on occasion. Alternatively, no Coccia astutely identifies the Information Officer which do not operate under the serious person can deny that need for integration between Graduate Student Union same high principles of free­such actions are necessary on the graduate and undergradu­Oct. 5, 1989 dom, justice and democracy certain occasions. Covert oper­ate populations here at Notre that exist in the United States. ations are a necessary evil. Dame. As part of our agenda To help us understand these Christian ethics and common
Incident of racial harassment at NO
for the 1989-90 academic year, forces, and to protect ourselves sense demand that these tragic the Graduate Student Union disrupts 'Year of the Family' theme against them, we need the. CIA. mistakes be corrected. Since (GSU) will attempt to bring the But more than this, we need they cannot be undone, we have two groups into close contact Dear Editor: memo to the professor asking moral men and women, with a a moral imperative to prevent beyond the T A-student and res­As a black student, I have en­him to comply with three de­strong commitment to the ide­mistakes of a similar nature ident hall staff-resident scenar­countered some hardships at mands. They were that he apol­als of human rights to enter the from being repeated. This can ios. Notre Dame. My worst experi­ogize to his class for making CIA. ' be accomplished only by chang­ence, by far, concerns the the comments, that he change Although we are entering a ing the way decisions are made. 
The GSU is presently develop­teaching methods of Father the format of his lectures, and, period in which superpower The decision of how best use ing better relationships with George Wiskirchen. While I was finally, that he write a formal competition is less threatening covert operations, then, should many undergraduate groups enrolled in his "Introduction to apology in The Observer. than in the past, we must not be made by those with a deep and organizations to facilitate Jazz" course in Fall 1988, the delude ourselves into thinking commitment to democracy and this goal, including the professor frequently compared Unfortunately, his response that the U.S. is not threatened human rights. Academic Council and the the African and European was negative, for he did not feel from abroad. There are still, The proposal to disallow CIA Student Union Board, and we styles of music in a manner that he was in the wrong. and always will be, forces recruitment at Notre Dame is hope to revitalize the demeaning to the African form. Therefore, the problem was which need to be combatted. not part of the solution to the Graduate/Undergraduate For example, the rhythms of taken to the provost. To the We live in a world in which CIA's troubles, but part of the Committee with the help of African and European were shock of the black community, terrorists kill planeloads of in­problem. It is this intolerant at­Student Government. We will considered to be "dirty" and no previous charge had been nocents in the skies above titude which has shunned many sponsor a "Graduate Student "clean", respectively. filed against Father Wiskirchen Scotland and Africa; in which people of deep moral conviction Appreciation Week" later this After a few such lectures, I in his 17 years as a professor drug lords control nations in from working in the CIA. Moral year in order to create greater discussed my feelings with at Notre Dame. Moreover, no Latin America. decisions can arise only from a visibility of the graduate popu­Father Wiskirchen. He agreed racial complaint form had ever These forces cannot be coun­moral decision-maker. The re­lation on campus. In the past, to alter his lectures and asked existed at the University. tered with World Court deci­cruitment of intelligent, moral the GSU has co-sponsored with that I inform him if he made Hence, Father Wiskirchen only sions, Geneva Conventions, or individuals, with a deep com­Student Government a panel any racial comments. received a warning from the the like. America made that mitment to human rights, is the discussion on the controversial Fortunately, Father Wiskirchen provost about his comments. mistake once, in the 1920s, best method by which the CIA "Last Temptation of Christ," ceased with the derogatory Due partly to this incident, when well-meaning idealists can be adequately reformed. and this year we also hope to statements for the remainder students experiencing racism thought they had outlawed war If Notre Dame is to support work together with that body of the semester, so I assumed from a professor in the future with the Kellogg-Briand Pact the ideals of human rights and to add to the intellectual as well that he was willing to change will be able to complete a racial and the League of Nations. The justice, it can best do so by al­as social life of the universitv. his lectures according to the harassment form. I urge all terrorists and drug lords of lowing its students the oppor­
It is true that both groups students' needs. students to report incidents of our world can be stopped only tunity to be in a position to 
could learn much from each racism in order to aid in the with knowledge about their ac­make moral decisions. Notre 
other, as Mr. Coccia points out. However, in the present success of the "Year of the tions, which the intelligence­Dame should not deny the CIA 
Before that can be accom­semester, the National Family." gathering power if the CIA recruitment on campus. This is 
plished, however, both groups Association for the Alva M. Lewis must continue to provide. That in the interests of students, the 
need to learn much about each Advancement of Colored People Secretary, NAACP information must, in some University, the CIA, and ulti­
other. The GSU thanks Mr. (NAACP) and the Black Cultural Oct. 5, 1989 cases, translate into prudent mately, the cause of human 
Coccia for bringing this issue Arts Council (BCAC) were in­action. rights throughout the world. 
to the pages of The Observer. formed of Father Wiskirchen's Editor's note: A letter of Few would deny that the in­
We hope that, by raising continued use of insulting re­apology from Fr. Wiskerchen, telligence-gathering role of the Richard P. Delevan 
awareness of the need to inte­marks. The black association dated Oct. 2, was printed in The CIA is beneficial. It is the covert Planner Hall 
grate the two groups and then members collectively wrote a Observer on Oct. 6. 
DOONESBURY  
H()(JJMUOf OPA SI37BACJ</5/T 7HAT YOUR. MeN J/ETBROK& IXJIA/N 7H& IXXJR OPA RETI!<W  NOTMUQ-1. IAJ& (ji{()UW 813A!Jt.e7V 5I377Z& OUT OFCOUJ<T. A7AFOR­MCR He  

I A55UM8, NOTATAl-L.. HOW&VeR., 7HIJ Wt'R& GO/N<3 OP/3MT!ON 15 70 FINP TH/9 
c:ANC/3lEl/ "(}RJ}G6UY" IF FOR IT TAI<&5 AU. 
activities of the CIA that bring Oct. 3, 1989 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
I TH/NK/7'5 /TtNfJ5 I<JNDOPA WITH A FOR&IGN-VOW/3L.., 50UNDING {)(}f3'3N'T 
NAM&. IT? 
I
I 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'He who does not understand 
your silence will probably not 


understand your words.' 
Elbert Hubbard 

:' .._. . ,_ '.... 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
---~  
.­,..-;  I.  
\.  
page 8  The Observer  Thursday, October 12, 1989  


NEW MONEY-SAVING 





DEALS 
From Domino's Pizza® 
DOUBLE GUARANTEE
CALL NOW! 
a. . If your pizza isn't right, we'll 
Notre Dame make it right. If it's late, we'll give you $3.00 OFF! Call us for details.

271-0300 
1835 South Bend Ave. 
©1989 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 
MONDAY'S BEAT THE CLOCK ··~ 1 
The time on the clock '



r ~~.
\ ... I .
is the price you pay! 
Call from 6pm -7pm order Two 10" One-topping pizzas and the time you call is the price you pay! Call from 7pm -8pm order Two 12" One-topping pizzas and the time you call is the price you pay! Call from 8pm -9pm order Two 14" One-topping pizzas and the time you call is the price you pay! Call from 9pm -10pm order Two One-topping pan pizzas and the time you call is the price you pay! 
I I 
Valid at pat1icipaling stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Proces may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery area limited to ensure sale d<ov1ng Our drovers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized lor late deliveries ©t989 Dom•no's Pizza. Inc~



'L ..1 
' 
r THURSDAY'S THINK THICK! 1 
Get One Medium Pan Pizza loaded with cheese 
and pepperoni 
I FOR ONLY $6.00 -~I 
Valid at pat1icipating stores only. Not valid with any other offer Prices may vary Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areo limited to ensure sale driving . Our drovers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized lor late deliveries. ©1989 Oom~no's P1zza. Inc.


L ..1 
,
I 
SUNDAY'S DOUBLE FEATURE 
Get Two Small Cheese Pizzas! 
I 
I
FOR ONLY $5.49 
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax whare applicable. Delivery area limited to ensure sale drivang. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are no1 penalized lor late deliveries. © t989 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 


L J. 
,
I 
ANYDAY! 
Count on Domino's Pizza® to supply you with Two Large Cheese Pizzas anyday of the week!
I 
I
FOR ONLY $8.89 
Valid at pat1icipating stores only. Not valid with any other otter. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable~ Delivery area limited to ensure sale driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized 101' late deli11eries. ~1989 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 
L J 
---~~~ 

Accent
Thursday, October 12, 1989 page 9 
Cast of Tartuffe, clockwise starting with center man: Orgon (Timothy Deenihan), Madam Pernella (Rachel! Zutell), Flipote (Katy Blakey), Damis (Patrick B. Tuite), Elmire (Karen Carbone), Mariane (Helene Mengert). 



TARTUFFE 
First presentation of the year is nearly flawless and brings audience into the spirit of the play 
MAGGIE MACDONALD Washington Hall -a class­poetry did indeed challenge the accent writer room by day and a theater by performers, but more impor­night -into a blessing, and tantly it also gave characteriza­
Damis (Patrick B. Tuite) restrains Tartuffe (Gerald Welch) in the ND 
tion clues. Although the con­
Tartuffe, originally written by continued the design of the the­Communication and Theatre Production of Moliere's Tartuffe at 
Moliere, truly takes its audience ater in the set, dissolving the stant rhyme and the difficult Washington Hall. It runs through the weekend. through three worlds. The ex­potential physical division be­heroic couplets of the verse perience includes not only the tween the stage and the house. alienated the audience at times, crucifixion image hovering be­tone reminiscent of a certain 
evangelist who collapses into 
world depicted by Moliere, but Additionally, the set is con­a prose translation would have hind them. also that of the Italian com­structed in the manner of a lost the sense of the pretension One problem of the perfor­fetal position (which Gerald media dell'arte and that of and hypocrisy of the characters mance lies in the characteriza­Welch as Tartuffe also imi­Washington Hall Theatre 1989 which is ce11tral to the play. tion of the main character of tates). This allusion to current
The play is concerned 
Tartuffe himself. The first hypocrisy invites the audience(as the program takes pains to 
with the excess of
point out). The play is con­One world was absent from traces of Tartuffe's voice off­back into the performance and strengthens the bond between 
cerned with the excess of reli­religion, and Director the performance: that of the stage please the ear with 
gion, and Director Reginald Reginald Bain found it Notre Dame actors and ac­Gregorian notes of piety. the worlds of the Tartuffe and Bain found it a fitting one to tresses. These students aptly However, his entrance destroys the audience. 
present at Notre Dame. a fitting one to shed their modern duds and this image. He is a wretched, Before lights dim and all of present at Notre slipped easily into ribbons, slithy-stooped rat in appear­To experience the worlds of the audience is seated, a char­decolletage or Buster Brown ance, which contrasts with the Tartuffe (which I heartily en­
Dame. 
acter from the two other attire, professionally designed previous image and effectively courage!), tickets can be pur­worlds enters and watches ours by Richard Donnelly. Timothy emphasizes his deception and chased at the LaFortune -the audience realizes that the stage of the commedia Deenihan, who portrayed the hypocrisy. Piety is gone from Student Center Box Office, or at stage players are not the sole dell'arte, a form of comedy elder Orgon, convincingly the picture for the rest of the Washington Hall. Performances spectacle in this performance. which influenced Moliere. added years to his own age performance, and it seems ludi­run Thursday, October 12, The efforts of Set and Lighting To be applauded is Bain's de­with good vocal skills. Helene crous that anyone could be se­through Sunday, October 15, Designer Kevin Dreyer invite cision to use the English verse Mengert, Robin Dvorak and duced by this Tartuffe. and tickets are $4 for students the audience to delve into translation of the play, as op­Karen Carbone tickled the au­Tartuffe's lack of ability to se­and senior citizens, $5 for the Tartuffe. Dreyer transformed posed to the prose, to give the dience with exaggerated facial duce distances the audience. balcony, and $6 for the main the problem of the conspicuous actors a challenge and keep expressions, with looks some­However, the audience often floor. architecture and design of with the spirit of Moliere. The times more aghast than the hears him speak in a southern 
ND series highlights ethics in Life Choices 
wants to read about the prob-the Church. A pilot series aired response from its viewers. It is causes them to respond, to
ANN MARIE HARTMAN 
lems of immigration, homeless-in May, and it covered the a television effort that will think. 
accent writer 
ness, or lack of ethics in politics topics of youth at risk, the ag-present critical social problems This program encompasses while eating a cheeseburger? ing, homelessness, immigration, and then initiate discussions the talents and interests of It is lunchtime at Notre Certainly not most students. and political ethics. It received about what the government and Notre Dame faculty and expertsDame. The typical student has but these are issues that cannot the prestigious Gabriel Award individuals can do to alleviate from around the country. Life her J.D. processed, and before go unrecognized. A dedicated from the National Catholic these ailments of society. Choices is Notre Dame at its she moves through the doors of 
Notre Dame committee, under Association of Broadcasters best. 
the cafeteria, she is sure to It is a hoJ?e of the University
the guidance of Fr. Edward and Communicators for its
grab her copy of the Observer. that, within the year, this tele-Do not miss the opportunity
Malloy and Fr. Richard accurate portrayals. Since then,
After carefully selecting the vision series, accompanied by to watch Life Choices. It has
Warner, has made it their goal Life Choices has been
delicacy of the day, she makes an instructional manual, will be made this rather passive reader 
to arouse an awareness of contracted for thirty-nine half-
her way to a seat and begins to made available for schools as a of the news not only want to
these issues among the hour segments over the next 
eat heartily. teaching aid. This project know more, but to do more.
American people through tele-eighteen months, and it is Viewers will have made thewould be a service to the vision. estimated that its viewing 
This scenario is not complete Church and would be completely wrong "choice" if they dare to
audience will grow from eight miss Life Choices.
until the student begins to flip Life Choices is a television non-profit, according to Fr.
million to twenty million. 
through the Observer. She series exploring the ethical side Warner. 
Life Choices is shown on cabletakes careful note of the birth-of social issues. It was a project Fr. Malloy believes that Life After any half-hour segment, television, or it can be seen at
day ads, the quote of the day, that began last September Choices is a "significant exten-viewers find themselves debat­
5:30 p.m. Mondays, on Channelthe Far Side, and the sport's when Notre Dame was asked to sion of the University's teaching ing the questions raised. The 34 and again on Sundays atsection. However, the "real set up a quality religious pro-mission." Fr. Warner furthered show forces one to do more 
11:30 a.m.news" is overlooked because of gram that would educate its this thought by saying that Life than just passively watch; it has its often dreary topics. Who viewers as a service offered by Choices is searching for a an effect on the viewers. It 
page 10 The Observer Thursday, October 12, 1989 
The Observer accepts classtlteds "vmy bl!SIIlP.SS day I rom 10 a rn to 3 30 p m at the Notre Dame olf11.e. 314 LaFortune Jlld from 12 30 to 3 p m at the Sarnt Marys offrce Haggar College Center Deadline for next ddy clr15SIJteds IS 1 ;> rn All classrfleds must be 
prepa1d The chargers 2 cents pe1 cha1aC1er per day rncludmq s;>aces 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 
287-4082. 
This Friday Anti-Apartheid 
Network vigil at 12:15 p.m. 
Every Friday Anti-Apartheid 
Network vigils at 12:15 p.m. 
Admim. building 
WILLA CATHER OSCAR WILDE. 
GERTRUDE STEIN. 
TCHAIKOVSKY. 
DO YOU BELONG TO THIS 
ELITE GROUP? 
CONTACT US. 
GLNDISMC 
P.O. BOX194 
NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 
AVON Xmas show & product sale 10/15 6-Bpm Turtle Crk Office bldg 277-5934 4 details 
SENIORS I SENIORS! SENIORS I 
join friends at Sr. Bar for the 
FRIDAY THE THIRSTEENTH 
bashI 
SENIORS! SENIORS I SENIORS! 
PANDORA'S BOOKS BOB howard 3 blks. from NO campus 233-2342 $$$FOR YOUR BOOKS WE BUY AND SELL USED TEXTBOOKS 11!1!1!1111111111 
TYPING term 
papers/reportslleners/resumes. 
Pick up & delivery available. 277­
5134 10am-8pm. 
Spee-Dee 
Wordprocessing 
237-1949 
Typing. Term papers. resumes, 
etc. on IBM PC. Call Sue's 
Secretarial Service at 299-0063. 
WORDPROCESSING 
272-8827 
TYPING term 
papers/reportslleners/resumes. 
Pick up & delivery available. 277­
5134 10am-Bpm. 
Spee-Dee 
Wordprocessing 
237-1949 
Typing. Term papers, resumes, 
etc. on IBM PC. Call Sue's 
Secretarial Service at 299-0063. 
WORDPROCESSING 
272-8827 

LOST/FOUND 
LOST: A REWARD IS OFFERED 
TO ANYONE WHO FOUND MY 
HEWLETT-PACKARD 
CALCULATOR (MAYBE IN NSH). 
THIS WAS A GRADUATION 
PRESENT AND I NEED IT FOR 
BOTH CLASSES AND 
SENTIMENTAL REASONS. 
PLEASE CALL COLLEEN X2634. 
I CAN IDENTIFY IT. 
MY BROWN LEATHER JACKET 
AND DUKE SWEATSHIRT 
WERE TAKEN FROM THE 
ROCKNE BUILDING ON 10/5 
BETWEEN 2 AND 3 O'CLOCK. 
THEY HAVE MUCH PERSONAL 
VALUE TO ME-PLEASE 
RETURN, NO QUESTIONS 
ASKED. REWARD GIVEN. 
CINDY, 220 KNOTT, #4928. 
"Lost": Woman's Corvair 
Bike.. White with blue trim.Big 
Basket Great senttmental value. Any info call Bridget at 2547. 
Lost TAN, POLO JACKET at the SENIOR CLASS CRUISE on FRIDAY. PLEASE CALL GEORGE at 1694 if you have found the jacket THANK YOU. 
LOST: MINOL TA FREEDOM 
ZOOM 90 CAMARA. LAST SEEN 
IN MAIN CIRCLE. NOT INSURED, NOT PAID FOR, VERY, VERY VALUABLE Ill CALL PETE AT #1863 ANYTIMEI $100.00 REWARD. 
LOST: Signet Ring with initials WFH lost in south quad by Alumni. Important sentimental reasons. Please call Bill at 1553. You will be rewarded , I promise Thank you very much. 
LOST: MINOLTA FREEDOM ZOOM 90 CAMARA. LAST SEEN IN MAIN CIRCLE. NOT INSURED, NOT PAID FOR, VERY, VERY VALUABLEIII CALL PETE AT #1863 ANYTIME I $100.00 REWARD. 
LOST: Signet Ring with initials WFH lost in south quad by Alumni. Important sentimental reasons. Please call Bill at 1553. You will be rewarded , I promise Thank you very much. 
Fri. night Club 23 I don't care about the coat, I only want the silver flowered barren in the pocket PLEASE!! only momenta of deceased mother mo 3536 Springbrook Drive 
SB, IN 46614 (291-6428) 
LOST: A BLUE NOTRE DAME POUCH CONTAINING IMPORTANT PRESONAL IDENTIFICATION--NOTHING ELSE I REWARD UPON RETURN. NO QUESTIONS ASKEDIll CALL 
#4921. ASK FOR REGINA 
LOST: Silver chain-link bracelet Lost somewhere between Farley Hall and 02 parking 
lot Please call Chris at 1836 Great sentimental value. 
A $20 reward for manila envelope (8 112 x 11 1/2) containing Spanish translations in process. Call 239-6166 or evenings 277­7043. 
I

WANTED 
.L..-••-C_A_S_H_T_O_D_A_Y-••-•• -,-or_U_S_C...J 
,PITT tix stu or ga -Mark 271­5691. 
Need two Navy Ga's together Call Wally at 1388 
WANTED-ride to Ohio on 80-90 E. leaving after USC game, will share expenses please call Kevin x1647 
BEACH MEl Sunchase Ski & Beach Breaks is hiring Campus Representatives to promote Spring Break to South Padre Island, Mustang Island, Hilton Head Island, Ft Lauderdale, Daytona Beach, and Steamboat We pay TOP commissions & FREE trips! Call 1-800-321-5911 today for a free application packet Campus groups & organizations welcome! 
OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo. Summer, Yr. round, All Countries, All fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO BX 52-Corona Del Mar CA 92625 
RIDE OFFD 10/13-15 TO DTROIT OR ANY TOWN ON WAY X2768 
I am looking for any USCvs.ND T -shirts. Call Chris at x. 1692. 
NEED RIDE TO PITTS AREA FOR BREAK! WILL HELP WITH EXPENSES. Sheri x3567 
ATTENTION-HIRING! Government jobs -your area. $17,840-$69,485. Call1-602­838-8885. Ext R6262 
ENTREPRENEURS WANTED. Earn $5,000-$15,000 in a summer management position and gain valuable business experience. Triple "A" Student Painters. Call Scon Ruhl 317-362-4234. 
SPRING BREAK 1990 -Individual or student organization needed to promote our Spring Break trips. Earn money, free trips and valuable work experience. APPLY NOWII Call Inter-Campus Programs: 1-800-327-6013. 
STUDENT talent 
.......................Nov. 10th 
lmprov Contest at Alumni Sr Club prizes up to $$$$100.00 
Deadlin for lmprov nile at Alum. SR Club OCT 19th call 277-3653 leave name and number... 
ATTENTION-HIRING! Government jobs -your area. $17,840-$69,485. Call1-602­838-8885. Ext R6262 ENTREPRENEURS WANTED. Earn $5,000-$15,000 in a summer management position and gain valuable business experience. Triple "A" Student Painters. Call Scon Ruhl317-362-4234. 
SPRING BREAK 1990-Individual or student organization needed to promote our Spring Break trips. Earn money, tree trips and valuable work experience. APPLY NOWII Call Inter-Campus Programs: 1-800-327-6013. 
STUDENT talent •••••••••••••••••••Nov. 1Oth 
lmprov Contest at Alumni Sr Club prizes up to $$$$10000 
Dead! in for lmprov nile at Alum. SR. Club OCT 19th call 277-3653 leave name and number... 
SICK OF LIVING ON-CAMPUS?? --WE NEED EACH OTHER-­•• NEED TWO ROOMMATES.. FOR A GREAT HOUSE FOR SPRING SEMESTER 1990. 
GREAT LOCATION ON ANGELA BLVD. 1/4 MILE FROM CAMPUS!! -CHEAP RENT 
FUN ROOMMATES!! CALL KARIN, KELLY, OR JULIE @287-9378 
Need ride from NJ to ND on Oct. 
29. Will share expenses. Jerry 272-7449 

FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
I 

FOR SALE 
~----------J 
TANDY COMPUTER, COLOR MONITOR, DOT MATRIX PRINTER, DESK/HUTCH & CHAIR $2,000.00 OR BEST OFFER CALL AFTER 6PM 234-3131. 
Winter is coming. For sale 100%, great, cheap leather jackets. 
Call Pedro x1002 
COLOR TV RENTALS 
19-INCH, $70/SEM, $120/YR; 25-INCH, $90/SEM, $160/YR FREE DELIVERY COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272­5959 
ATTENTION-GOVERNMENT SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. Fords, Mercedes, Corvenes, Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1­602-838-8885 EXT. A6262. 
AMPLIFIER -EV SPKRS, 300 WT. HEAD, HSA CABINET, HORN. GREAT CONDITION. $250. CALL 277-8475. 
Dolby B&C Tape Deck:$50; Auto Reverse Boom Box:$75; 19" Color TV:$200; Call Mark at 271-0672 
SELLING ST. TKTS. 272-9719 
ATTENTION-GOVERNMENT SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1­602-838-8885 EXT. A6262. 
AMPLIFIER-EV SPKRS, 300 WT. HEAD, HSA CABINET, HORN. GREAT CONDITION. $250. CALL 277-8475. 
Dolby B&C Tape Deck:$50; Auto Reverse Boom Box:$75; 19" Color TV:$200; Call Mark at 271-0672 
SELLING ST TKTS. 272-9719 
For Sale: One-way to Tulsa from 
S.B. on 10121. Price CHEAP! Call Stacy x4914 

TICKETS 
TOP$ ALL HOME GA'S 312-920-9350 
I NEED USC, MIAMI, & ALL HOME GAME TIX 272-6306 
NAVYNAVYNAVYNAVYNAVY I need 5 GA's or anything you have together NAME YOUR PRICE!!!! Call Kyle-#3775 
I need GAs to USC and PITT Call Dan at271-9821 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ WANTED: MIAMI TICKETS CALL MATT AT 1961 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I need 3 tickets UNDvs PITT· Reasonable $$ Call K. Sherry 232-2051 
NEED 6 SMU GA'S TIM 271-8795 
I need two student tickets to the USC game. Call Martha at x1331. 
I need 2 USC GA's Please call , Mary Kay 284-5227 
Can I please have 2 GA's and 1 student ticket for the USC football game and 4 student tickets for the Pinsburgh one? I'm Tom and my phone number is 1128. Thank you. 
Mom and Dad are kind of weird. Even after seeing the boring Purdue game, they rarin' to see more ND footbalL Help them out They'll buy any two GAs tor any home game. Call #3714 and leave a message. 
I need USC tickets. If you have any to sell, call x. 1692. Bust the Trojans. 
NEED 2 or 4 Pitt GA's Call Eric x1008 
NEED 1 USC & 1 PITT GA CALL 16550R 4224 
NEED GA'S FOR USC AND PITT. CALL CHRIS AT x1067 
Show my brother from Northwestern what football is really like. Sell me your NAVY ticket Call Martin at 3343. 
I NEED PITT, SMU GA'S PLEASE!! #2819 
NEED PITT GA'S BETH 3706 
NEED USC TIX CHERYL x2629 
I have 2 USC GA's; will trade for 2 Pitt GA's; call Mark x3331 or x3332 
Will trade 2 SMU GA's for Pitt or USC GA's; call Mark x3331 or x3332 
I need 1 USC stud tix; call Bill x3363 
Need 1 USC ticket-stud. or GA Call Wendy x4036 
Need SMU Ga's Call Mark 1890 
2 Tixs to all Home Games for sale 272-5092 
ATTENTION II HAVE RESERVATIONS FOR GRADUATION 1990 WILL "DEAL" GA'S FOR ANY '89 HOME GAME CALL DEBBIE AT 284-5202 
.I NEED A NAVY GA FOR MOM MONEY NO PROBLEM call Scott x1635 after 8:30pm 
..TRADE••TRADE..TRADE•• My Navy Stud for your USC Stud Call Julie X3864 
Have-1 Pin stud tix. John x2292 
IF YOU HAVE A USC STUDENT TICKET TO SELL PLEASE CALL LISA 4937 
USC and NAVY GA's and Student needed x1927 
Pin Student Tickets Needed #1097 
I have 2 GA's for both Pitt and USC. Best Offer 703-528-4367 
DESPERATELY IN NEED OF 3 USC TICKETS OR AS MANY AS SOMEONE HAS TO OFFER MONEY NO PROBLEM. CALL CARl AT 271-5651 
Help 2 NO GRADS driving from Houston.Need 2 USC tix-GA or student Will pay$$$. Call Dena or Eric collect (713)669-8326 
NEED NAVY TIX!!! HAVE SMU FOR SALE!!! X2880 
3 ADJACENT PITT STUDS FOR SALE. CALL 287-9854. 
NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY I need 4 GA's and 2 Stud tickets for NAVYII Call Steve@ x1661! NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY 
NEED 2 OR 3 USC GA'S 1 Pm STUD TRACY X2613 
NEED 2 OR 3 USC GA'S 1 PITTSTUD $$$$ TRACYX2613 
NEED 4USC 2NAVY 2 SMU TIX NOW !$1$!$ CALL STEVE #1650 
We need USC student tickets and 2 Navy GA's. Please call Brian or Man at x.1695. 
I NEED .. 4 MIAMI ga's ... 2 PITI ga's ... 1 USC stud I HAVE $$$$ Call Jell at 3555 
USC GRAD WANTS TO SEE HIS TEAM GET STOMPED. Wants to pay for the pleasure. 2 GAs needed ... 233 6298 
I need GA's and STUD TIX for USC and PITT will pay $$$ Call Tim 14 78 
PLEASE HELP !1!!1!! I need 2 PITT GA'S and 3 USC STUD or GA'S. I am desperate! Please don't make my family & friends waste a trip. 
PLEASE CALL Paul x2032 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Need Pitt GAs and Studs call Jell or Marty 277-1180 
Rich Alumni Father Needs USC GAs $$$ reward for your help! Call Tim X2037 
Need Navy GAs. Call John Welle. # 7204 am. #6885 1-5 pm. 233­3412evenings. 
NEED smu ga's 277-5934 
I need SMU STUD, Pay$$$, Call Bill x1103 
I NEED 2, 4, or 6 GA's for USC Call "the Scooter" or Jim at the Moneystore #427 4 
NEED GA'S AND STUDENT TIX FOR USC!! WILL PAY$$$! CALL MIKE AT 277-9187. 
NEED LOTS OF NAVY TIX-GA'S or STUD. CALL TOM-1694. 
I NEED USC TICKETS GA'S OR STUDENT 
HELP! MOM A~!D DAD WILL KILL ME IF I DON'T GET 2 GA'S FOR PITT! YOU HAVE TICKETS, I HAVE$$$. PLEASE CALL X3832. 
NEED 4 NAVY GA's PLEASE CALL KARIN x1321 
I NEED ST. TICKS FOR PITT -----PAUL X3406----­
LOTS OF CASH TO BURN EARN SOME DOUGH CALL DAN, 239-5472 
I NEED 1 USC STUD. MIKE #4057 
NEED PITT TIX STUDENT &GA's Brian X1521 
Travel Tour Operator needs tickets for all N.D. games-home and away, especially MSU, USC and Miami. Premium price paid. Immediate case available. Will trade for all major sporting events including Final 4, Indy 500 and bowl game, etc. Will also buy season tickets. Please call Dave at 1-800-828-8955 today. 
TICKETS WANTED: 4 SO. CAL (318) 942-9771, (W); (318) 942­7164, (H). CALL COLLECT 
I'll buy any tickets for any home 
game, or Miami. call JEFF at 239-3714, leave a message. Thanks. 
Need TXTS All Games call Bill 277-3653 
Call FRANK 287-5320 
NEED GAS FOR PITT, NAVY & SMU $$$$ CALL TOM & MARTY X 3185 
NEED 3 PITT GA TIX $$ CALL: 4272 
WANTED: USC TIX BETWEEN THE 20 YD. LINES. WILL BUY OR EXCHANGE END ZONE SEATS+ CASH OR TICKETS TO NAVY, PITT OR SMU 800-323-7687. 
NEED USC TIX JOE 1714 
ND Alumnus needs GA for any Home Games. Call Clct. after 5 (201)-852 2106 
NEED 2 USC tickets Call 502-354­8826 collect. 
1 or 2 NO/USC tickets wanted. Call Mac COLLECT (509) 325-0519 nights 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE PITT GAME! CALL VANESSA AT X4933.$$$$ 
NEED TWO GA'S FOR ANY HOME GAME ---CALL PAUL X3406 
I NEED MIAMI TIX FOR ALUM UNCLE-HE'LL DO ANYTHING! CALL3668 TK 
NEED 2 PITT GAs CALL x1662 
Need 2 SMU GA's.Call Sue x4702 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 2 USC GA'S CALL BETH 283-2722 PLEASF!!!I!!! $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED USC AND MIAMI GA'S WILL GIVE BLANK CHECK!!!!!!! CALL JEFF AT 1505. $$$$$ 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED PITT GA'S AND STUDENT TlX. CALL CHRIS AT 283-4220. 
NEED 2 TICKETS FOR NOTRE DAME/USC GAME. PLEASE CALL COLLECT 619/565-8303. ASK FOR LARRY CORRIGAN. 
Looking to trade 2-4 Pitt GA's for 2-4 Penn St. tix. Please call Bo at x2352 if interested. 
HELPI! My Dad, Agamemnon, just hates the Trojans. I need 
4GAstoUSC 
Please call Marty at 277-4392 
NEED 8 USC TIX CALL2207 
see CLASS I page 12 
----------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, October 12, 1989 The Observer page 11 
Texas Tect1 match vs. Arkansas could determine Cotton Bowl bid 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Associate Sports Editor 
In its college football preview Collegeissue a few years ago, Sports Illustrated gave Texas Tech the Football dubious honor of ugliest campus in the nation. Arkansas is using the same 

University officials and strong-defense, strong-kicking citizens from around the game strategy that led the Lubbock, Tex., campus sent out Hogs to a 10-1 record and enough complaints that the near-upset of Miami last year. magazine decided to reconsider The Hogs are allowing just over its choice. 12 points per game, and they 
After considering for a while, have connected on a record 32 the writers concluded they were consecutive field goal attempts right the first time -Texas dating back to last season Tech was the most unsightly (with Kendall Trainor kicking educational environment in the last year and Todd Wright 
U.S.A. currently holding the position). 
Aside from that, this ••• traditional Southwest It's too early to assume Conference patsy has not anything, but Saturday's received much attention from contest between Michigan and college football publications Michigan State probably will go recently. That could all change a long way in determining this weekend. which Michigan (oops, Big Ten) 
With the Red Raiders having school will advance to the Rose just upset Texas A&M 27-24 Bowl. last weekend, the nation's The good news about this ugliest campus gets set to host East Lansing contest is that defending SWC champion both teams are at full strength. Arkansas this Saturday. Michigan will start Elvis Grbac 
If the Red Raiders find a way at quarterback, but Michael to knock off the seventh-ranked Taylor will be available if Razorbacks, Texas Tech could necessary. The Spartans have play in the Cotton Bowl on New their entire crop of outstanding Year's Day. The Raiders will running backs, including Blake have beaten two of the major Ezor and Hyland Hickson, conference contenders, and the ready to go. other one -Houston -can not Bo Schembechler should have play in a bowl because it is on his Wolverines sufficiently NCM probation. motivated. The Michigan coach 
Nobody expected much of was so disgruntled with his anything from Texas Tech, offense after last weekend's 24­which went 5-6 last year and 0 triumph over Wisconsin that lost quarterback Billy Joe he did not have any of his Tolliver to the NFL's San Diego players speak to the media. Chargers. The only name to Michigan State, which was remember on this season's good but unlucky against Notre team is Head Coach Spike Dame and Miami, was Dykes (only because that rhyme fortunate to come away with a makes his name pretty hard to 17-14 victory at Iowa last forget). Saturday. The Hawkeyes 
The Raiders opened the rejected two opportunities in season with a 24-14 upset of the closing minutes to attempt Arizona, and a 29-15 easy field goals that would have conference loss to Baylor is the tied the game, as Iowa coach only blemish on Tech's record Hayden Fry was determined to so far this season. either win the game or lose it. 
,.............................................................e 
-I
I i TRAIL. RIDES !: 
I : 
: I
I 
: 

: I

I 
: 


: I 
I : 
: I 
I : 
: I 
I : 
: I 
I : 
: I 
I : 
: I 
I : 
: I 
I : 
: I
I : 
: I
I : 
: I 
iI TUESDAY through SUNDAY !: 
iI 1 0:00 AM-? !: 
I :
i (219) '778-4625 1 : I
I : 
: I
I :
i Horse Country of Galena I 
: I 

I "The Country Club for Horses" i 
I : 
: I
I 
: 

: I

I 
:


= 20 West to Fail Road f,Hesston), turn right 1 
I : 
After tying three· games last season, Fry would care not to see another tie for the next several years. 
What's the matter with Washington? 
The Huskies, who were ranked 11th in the country after opening the season with wins over Texas A&M and Purdue, have fallen to 2-3 and will need to scramble to earn an invitation to a second-tier bowl. 
Washington has not exactly been playing poorly. Aside from a 45-28 loss to third-ranked Colorado, the Huskies have had chances to win in the final quarter, losing 20-17 to Arizona and 24-16 to Southern Cal. 
Things don't too much easier for a team playing in a Pac-10 Conference filled with talent and parity. Still to come on the schedule are Oregon and Washington State at home and a road date with UCLA. 
The more things change, the more they stay the same. 
The University of Florida, which has never won a Southeastern Conference championship, finally wins a clutch conference game 16-13 with a last-play field goal at Louisiana State. 
And the next day, Head Coach Galen Hall joins former coach Charley Pell on the university's Hall of Shame, resigning amid charges of payments to players. The university, which has made NCM probations as much a part of its tradition as losses to arch-rival Georgia in football, also has its basketball team undergoing investigation. 
Florida fans still have cause for hope. When Pell resigned in 1984, and the probation announcement followed, the Gators responded by going 18­2-2 over the next two seasons. 
-
SPORTS BRIEFS 
SMC varsity basketball will begin from 6 to 8 p.m. Sunday, Oct. 15, in Angela Athletic Facility. Anyone interested may attend. 
ND women's basketball will begin tryouts at 6 a.m. Monday, Oct. 16, in the Joyce ACC main arena. 
Bengal Bouts novice tournament will be 4:30p.m. Friday, Oct. 13. There will be 15 bouts. 
WVFI-AM 640 will air Trivia Bowl '89 tonight at 8 p.m. live from Montgomery Theatre. Join Jamey Rappis and Kevin McCormick as they host the battle between Pangborn and Fisher. 
Grace Hall won the third and final race of the NVA Cross Country Meet. Grace finished in first place in the overall standings, with Keenan and Stanford close behind. Carl Vogel of Keenan finished first in yesterday's Meet with a time of 13:30 



Redskins' QB to return 
Associated Press 
HERNDON, Va. Washington Redskins quarter­back Doug Williams, feeling no stiffness a day after zinging several passes, on Wednesday expressed renewed confidence that he will soon play again. 
"Without a doubt, this season is on my mind," he said. "In fact, I'd love to be back way be­fore the end of the season." 
Williams underwent surgery to repair a herniated disk on Aug. 25. After spending much of the past few weeks lifting weights, riding a bicycle and trotting on a treadmill, he threw passes on Tuesday for the first time since the opera­tion. 
Sitting in front of his locker Wednesday at Redskin Park, Williams said he felt no ill ef­fects from the 11-minute work­out. 
"I don't feel any soreness yet, and I hope I don't," he said. "Considering the rehabilitation I've already gone through, I don't think I will." 
Williams threw passes up to 25 yards to Redskin trainers, and some of the throws had pretty good velocity. 
"It's just part of rehabilita­tion," he said. "It wasn't like throwing 15 yards and out to 
-=-___

Ihe Obsen!er 
is looking for people who are: v energetic 
V'  motivated  
V'  responsible  
V'  intsmstad in advertising  

to work as advertising represents 
For more information, contact : 
Molly Killen at The Observer #239-6900 or at #3631. 
Ricky (Sanders) or Gary (Clark). It was just a matter of going through the motion and throwing the football. 
"That's what it's a.ll about, just being there and being able to do it," he said. "Now I'm just looking forward to being able to do it more." 
Williams has thrown 2,583 passes in his NFL career, in­cluding four for touchdowns as MVP of the 1988 Super Bowl. The 34-year-old saw limited ac­tion last season after undergo­ing an emergency appendec­tomy, then injured his back while running on a treadmill during the recent offseason. 
He currently is on the non­football injury list and won't speculate as to how soon he could return to the active roster. 
''I'm not going to target it. It wouldn't be fair," he said. ''I'm just going to keep going through rehab and take it from there." 
Williams was named the Redskins' starter after the final game of last season, but now is behind Mark Rypien on the depth chart. If and when Williams returns, it will be as a backup because Coach Joe Gibbs has said the job is now Rypien's to lose. 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
-. 
1: 4.2 miles turn right on 850 North. I= 
: I Tickets available at the door or in advance at Lafortune 
I : Student Center Box Office MasterCard ard Visa Orders 239-7442
i ........................... lll................................! 

Need TXTS All Games call Bill Looking to trade 2-4 Pitt GA's for I need 4 SMU GA's KIM 3881 
Need 2 USC GA's or STUD 277-3653 2-4 Penn St. tix. Please call Bo and 2 PITT GA's or STUD 




Class 
at x2352 if interested. RICH UNCLE NEEDS 1 USC-GA 
PERSONALS
(Parents will pay BIG $$$$) 
or stud. ticket. call MARK@ 3546 Call CHRIS at x3278 
continued from page 1 0 
BIG MONEY FOR USC TICKETS SHANE'S TOP 10 QUOTES 
I NEED 10. STUDENT or GA HELP!I My Dad, Agamemnon, just 
BELIEVE IT OR NOT, I NEED 2 NEED 2 USC TIX -ST or GA 10. I need a shot! Call FRANK 287-5320 hates the Trojans. I need 
SMU GA's, I'LL EVEN PAY$$ CALL MO x2999 I NEED USC STUDENT TIX 9. The American Dream just rolls 
4GAstoUSC AS WELL AS GA'S 
over the opposition! NEED GAS FOR PITT, Please call Marty at 277-4392 x2629 CALL LLOYD AT x1684 8. I I we win by 20, I'm goin' hoggin! 
If you don't sell me 9 PITT GAs, I
NAVY & SMU $$$$ 7. If she calls again, I'm hanging 
will BLOW UP THE STADIUM AND 
CALL TOM & MARTY up!THEN NO ONE CAN WATCH NEED 2 NAVY GA'S 
X 3185 NEED 2 GAs FOR NAVY THE GAME!!!! Pete L x1791 
WILL PAY TOP$ 6. I'm worried about Air Force! 
CALL ANN 284-4223 HAVE PITT STUD TO TRADE PLEASE CALL KEVIN x3170 5. I could get 5 out of 1 0 and 
improve my average! 
$$ FRENZIED ALUMS $$
PITT PITT PITT PITT PITT PITT NEED 3 PITT GA TIX FOR USC CALL #2515 4. Rielly's my academic advisor! 
Need USC tix! Will pay BIG bucks! 
PITT PITT PITT PITT PITT PITT $$ CALL: 4272 SMU GA's 3. Hard to believe I haven't gotten 
Call John @2299 
any calls I 1need 4 GA's and 2 Stud's for the WANTED: USC TIX BETWEEN 2. You going to use your Pitt ticket? 
I will buy them. x2077 FOR SALE: Have 3 PITI STUD 4289 1 USC & 1 PITT STUD TIX 1. What'd you get me for my PITT game. Call Mike@ x1714. THE 20 YD. LINES. WILL BUY OR I need 1 USC Ticket CALL NOW!!!! x2558 birthday?
EXCHANGE END ZONE SEATS+ YO! POTATOHEADS ARE 
PITT PITT PITT PITT PITT PITT CASH OR TICKETS TO NAVY, call Dan x1417 HAPPY BIRTHDAY SHANE! 
COMING ALL THE WAY FROM 
PITT PITT PITT PITT PITT PITT PITT OR SMU. 800-323-7687. from the 6-man 
IDAHO TO SEE THE USC GAME. 
Need two USC and two PITT tix. I NEED USC TIX Call Luke x3113 
SELL ME STUD OR GA'S. CALL 
NEED USC TJX JOE 1714 ···································· 
SCOTT@ 272-2596.
2GA's NEED 2 GA'S FOR BOTH PITT. HAPPY
2STUDS TICKETS WANTED FOR PITT-NO KRJSTI-3778 GAME. 312-655-45g5. BIRTHDAYAND NAVY CALL CHERIE 4969 NO Alumnus needs GA for any NEED 1 PITT STUDENT TRICIAII!
Home Games. Call Clct. after 5 2NAVYGA 
HAVE: 4 stud Pitt tics MONEY NO PROB.
NEED TJX NEED TIX NEED TIX (201 )-852 2106 -------------------.. ·----------------Guess Who? 
NEED TO TRADE FOR: 4 Pitt GA's 4 Navy and 4 SMU, all stud tix. LET'S MAKE A DEAL 

···································· 
PAT 1236 
call Chris @ #1306 Please help! Jenny/Colleen x1330 My PITT for your USC(stud. only) 
CaJJX3474 ........Make A 1need a USC GA worse than all the $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 2 USC tickets Calf 502-354­
HAVE USC PITT
8826 collect. Difference!••••••••• rest of these lying schmucks!! $ LUST, GREED, HATE! $
STUDENTS NEED 2 USC GA'S BADL Yl TAKE THE PLUNGE 
BEST OFFER 
John, 2n-7450. PLEASE I $ FOR WHATEVER REASON, $
1 or 2 ND/USC tickets wanted. Call CALL MOLLY X3885 Urban Plunge Applications due this 
MIKE 1380 
$ PLEASE SELL PITT GA'S '$
Mac COLLECT (509) 325-0519 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13TH HEY YOU! Yeah, you. The one $ CALL MARK--271-8860 $
nights PARENTS' ANNIVERSARY at CSC---meet the challenge!
NEED PITT GAs WILL PAY BIG 
with the USC GA's. Call John at $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
NEED 2 USC GA'S BAD #######Urban Plunge########
$$$.CALL KEVIN 277-7167 (219)-283-2005 for $$$$ or 2 SMU 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE PITT CALL MIKE #271-8860 GA's. I WANT TO TRADE TWO PITT THURSDAY NITE VISITORS TO
GAME! CALL VANESSA AT NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. BIG$$$$. 
GA'S FOR TWO USC GA'S. CALL OUR APARTMENT (1 01 CAMPUSX4933.$$$$ 
277-9869.
ALUMNI SR. CLUB MEMBERS ... AMY 283-1265. VW)­
MIAMI trip raffle tor members only NEED USC TICKETS THE MANAGEMENT IS on Thurs Oct. 19th 10:00 pm UNHAPPY, SO WE'RE TAKING 
2 G A's , 2 STUD's FOR SALE: 1 USC STUD 
NEED TWO GA'S FOR ANY win a trip for two to game, flight THE WEEK OFF. SEE YOU NEXT
Call x4266 or 277-2290 BEST OFFER call joe 2647 
HOME GAME ---CALL tickets and hotel. h's not too late to I NEED USC, PITT AND MIAMI TIX THURSDAY.
PAUL X3406 I HAVE TWO SMU GAS! 
buy a membership $25 checks CHUCK X3302 THANK YOU, 
I NEED FOUR USC STUD. TJX I NEED TWO NAVY GAS. 
only. Membership has rt's YOUR HOSTS
I NEED ST. TICKS FOR PITT BIG $$$ CALL PETE 232-4208 LET'S SWAP' 
privledgesII! HAVE 2 USC Cecilia 233-8493 
STEAKS 
100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA
PRIME RIB 
Featuring Friday night seafood bullet and Sunday brunch

SEAFOOD 
219-259-9925 
oorulitllJ.l~J ~O~Q aw aw(ij
' ­
f}Jr.!:J0Q 0Jt:J\J(81]g w 

i]c:J l]r.!:lmcii~J Qw r!lr.BlJCBUnwQcB Ur.!Jll )J!lfill rd00Q"' 
0
11lliJ IJJrfl l!J[}.J IJlD [J.lrn}V Wllllil \ifiJ!.l=-{~r.B WCBflllil)Jg Ur!lll11JJ 

BOBX3324 
see CLASS I page 5 

cross 
The National Security Agency will be on campus November 28th inter;iew~g seniors major­ing in electrical engineering, computer science, mathematics, and Slavic, M1dclle Eastern, ~nd Asian languages. Summer positions are also available for juniors. See your placement office for more details. 

National Security Agency 
The Opportunitie; of aLifetime. 
An equaJ opportunity employer. U.S. citizenship required ror applicant and immediate family members. 
You need TXTS. call277-3653 
SORRY Alumni SR. club is going to be closed Sat Oct. 14th due to administrative reasons... 
Need student tickets for USC. 
Will pay$$$$. Call Bill, 271-8483 
I NEED 1 USC GA 
Please call Tim @ 1772 
I need 2 NAVY GAs. Please call 
Stanley #2015. 
FOR SALE:1 USC & 1 PITT ST TIK CHRIS X3360 
I need USC,SMU and Miami GAs 
Mike 287-3087 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
WANTED: 2 OR 3 PITT GA'S 
WILL PAY BIG BUCKSII CALL MOLLY AT 4992 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED USC TICKETS 2 G A's , 2 STUD's Call x4266 or 277-2290 
I need 4 SMU GA's KIM 3881 
Need 2 USC GA's or STUD 
and 2 PITT GA's or STUD 
(Parents will pay BIG $$$$) 
Calf CHRIS at x3278 
Need two SMU tix please call 284­49301111111111 
TICKETS WANTED: 4 SO. CAL. (318) 942-9771, (W); (318) 942­7164, (H). CALL COLLECT. 
-----PAUL X3406----­
NEED 8 USC TIX CALL2207 
I NEED MIAMI TJX FOR ALUM 
UNCLE-HE'LL DO ANYTHING! 
CALL 3668 TK 
NEED 2 PITT GAs 
CALL x1662 
Need 2 SMU GA's.Call Sue x4702 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I NEED 2 USC GA'S CALL BETH 283-2722 
PLEASE!IIIIII $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED USC AND MIAMI GA'S 
WILL GIVE BLANK CHECK!I!I!II CALL JEFF AT 1505. $$$$$ 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED PITT GA'S AND STUDENT TIX. CALL CHRIS AT 283-4220. 
....................................... 
NEED 2 TICKETS FOR NOTRE DAME/USC GAME. PLEASE CALL COLLECT 619/565-8303. ASK FOR LARRY CORRIGAN. 
Win a trip for two to the Miami game $1 for 1 chance $3 for 5 chances $5 for 1 0 chances Contact Sophomore Class Office 239-5525 M-F 3-5 
Thursday, October 12, 1989 The Observer page 13 
Celtics no longer need Johnson as a court leader 
Associated Press 
BROOKLINE, Mass. -When Brian Shaw went to Italy, the Boston Celtics went into the trade market and Dennis Johnson went into a funk. 
The team's search for a ball­handler to replace Shaw gave Johnson the message that the point guard position no longer was in good hands. He is 35 and trying to recover from foot injuries. 
The man who Larry Bird still calls "the best player I've ever played with" is in the final year of his contract. It probably won't be the happiest of his 13 NBA seasons. 
"DJ is a very competitive per­son. He's got a lot of heart," Boston center Robert Parish said. "He doesn't like the fact that people have written him off." 
Johnson has played in five NBA all-star games. He was named to the all-defensive first or second teams every year from 1979 through 1987. He is one of only 11 players with 15,000 points and 5,000 assists. 
But he couldn't keep up with the up-tempo style Coach Jimmy Rodgers tried to install last season. And even before Shaw signed with II Messaggero last Aug. 9, the search for a point guard had begun. 
The Celtics got New Jersey's permission to bring John Bagley, still a member of the Nets, to their summer camp in late July. After Shaw left, there were reports that the Celtics might be interested in free agent Gerald Henderson and Miami draft choice Sherman Douglas. 
Last Thursday. the day before Boston began its preseason camp, it traded its second­round draft picks in 1991 and 1993 for Bagley. Kelvin Upshaw and Charles Smith, a free agent from Georgetown, also are in camp as point guard. 
Last Friday, Johnson refused to talk to reporters who flocked to the opening of camp. 
"You can draw your own conclusions," the normally co­operative Johnson said. 
Rodgers has concluded that Johnson may still be able to play point guard but couldn't handle the spot for 40 minutes a game over an extended pe­riod. 
Johnson often played the off guard last season while teamed with Shaw. 
"We've been looking all sum­mer for a way to strengthen that particular position, the point position," Rodgers said. Johnson "has the versatility to do whatever we ask of him and I think that's the way he's going to en­ter into the picture." 
Johnson missed 10 games last season, four early in the season with an Achilles tendon injury that continued to hamper him when he played and the last six with an ankle injury. 
"He worked hard this sum­mer, I think harder than he had in the past couple of seasons," trainer Lacerte said. 
Johnson missed practice last weekend with a sprained right ankle but worked out at full speed Tuesday. 
"The concern for a point guard wasn't the concern (for) what OJ could do or couldn't do," forward Kevin McHale said. "It was how long he could do it for.... If you have to play OJ 45 minutes, that's going to be a hell of a toll on OJ." 
General Manager Jan Volk denied that he has overlooked Johnson. 
"If Dennis is healthy, we have expectations for him," Volk said. 
Johnson was one of the NBA's best defensive guards for most of his career and, although he never was an out­standing shooter, he had a knack for getting the ball to the right people and hitting key shots. 

"He's been a guy who always came through in the clutch for us," said Reggie Lewis, who is expected to start at off guard. "I still feel that he'll still be that guy." 
Bird admitted that Johnson can't race up the floor with the ball like faster guards, but said, "We're not a running team. It takes McHale and me 20 seconds to get up the court anyway so ... if OJ gets (the ball) up quick, it'd just be him and the other guard up there so he might as well wait on the rest of us." 

~ 

CHTINJES 


f6
WJEJEM: ~ 

/_§!) 
rr;_D AWP....~~ 
Thursday, October 12 at 8:00 pm in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Tiananmen Square and the Future Prodemocracy Movement Su Shaozhi, currently a professor at Marquette University, is a leading theorist of Chinese political reform. He formerly held the position of chairperson of the Marxism-Leninism Studies Institute of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. Li Lu, now a student at Columbia University, was a student leader of the prodemocracy movement in Beijing. Since June 4th, Mr. Lu has been listed as "wanted" by the Chinese government. *This event is co-sponsored with The Institute for 

UDENT 
~ 
ADWORKS 
Yet even Bird, one of Johnson's biggest boosters, said, "John Bagley is the type of guy that we needed. We needed somebody to come in and push the ball up the court." 
Although Rodgers said "we're looking for a big year from Dennis," Johnson still has to prove that he's healthy and can contribute at either guard posi­tion. 
But his teammates stubbornly defend him. 
When people "start talking about our backcourt his name was very seldom mentioned (last season), except trade ru­mors or 'He's all done,' " Parish said. "He has a lot of pride. I think people will see that this year." 
Falcons 
continued from page 16 
has earned the opportunity to get more playing time. The only thing is they haven't made the plays. They make them in practice; it's only a matter of getting acclimated to game situations." 
Holtz indicated that he has been looking at the versatile 
Steve  Belles  at  tailback  this  
week.  •••  
Notre  Dame  defensive  end  

and pass-rushing specialist Devon McDonald, who missed the entire Stanford game with a knee injury, is doubtful for this weekend, according to Holtz. 
McDonald is the only Irish regular with any major injury heading into the Air Force contest. 

r 
Dahlen leads Rangers to 5-4 victory over Flames
f 
Canadians, Sabres also win 
page 14 The Observer Thursday, October 12, 1989 

Associated Press  Dave Andreychuk scored two  
NEW YORK -Ulf Dahlen scored two of New York's three power-play goals as the un­beaten Hangers opened their  goals as the Buffalo Sabres rolled to a 7-1 victory Wednesday night over the con­fused and clumsy Toronto  
home season by holding off Calgary 5-4 Wednesday night, handing the Flames their first loss.  Maple Leafs, who couldn't even get the right six players on the ice to start the game. Scott Arnie!, Mike Foligno,  
In winning their third straight game, their best start  Phil Housley, Rick Vaive and John Tucker also scored for the  
since 1983, the Hangers got another steady performance in  Sabres, who got three assists from Pierre Turgeon.  
goal from John Vanbiesbrouck, who made 32 saves while the  Heferee Toronto a  Rob Shick gave penalty 40 seconds  
Flames were outshooting New York 35-23. In his three starts, Vanbiesbrouck has allowed  into the game for failing to start with the six players that were designated on the pre­ 
only eight goals on 108 shots.  game scoresheet.  
Calgary, which won New Jersey Tuesday  4-2 at night,  Andreychuk, wide open at the side of the crease on the power  
trailed 5-2 with five minutes to  play,  directed  a  pass  from  
play. but rallied on goals by Jamie Macoun's on the power  Foligno past starting goalie AI Bester at 1 :08.  
play at 15:03 of the third pe­riod and Theo Fleury at 16:45.  Arniel scored at 4:52, ducking behind defenseman Todd Gill to  
Sergei Makarov had  an  assist  direct  in  Jeff Parker's  pass;  
on Macoun's goal, giving the former Soviet National Team  Foligno beat Bester between the legs with a slap shot at  
star nine points in his first four NHL games. Vanbicsbrouck preserved the victory with less than two min­utes left when he poke-checked the puck away from Makarov,  16:37 and Housley slapped a shot into an open side of the net at 17:58 on a pass from Mike Ramsey after Gill gave the puck away in his own zone.  
who was alone in front.  
Canadiens 4, Bruins 2 Buss Courtnall scored his  Whalers 4, Capitals 1 Mike Liut stopped 24 shots in AP Photo his first start of the season and Phil Housley (6) and Mike Foligno (17) each scored a goal as the Buffalo Sabres pounded the hapless 
first  two  goals of the  season  Paul MacDermid scored twice Toronto Maple Leafs last night by a score of 7-1.  
and Shayne Corson snapped a 2-2 tic midway through the third period as the Montreal Canadiens defeated Boston Bruins 4-2 Wednesday night.  in the first period as the Hartford Whalers downed Washington 4-1 Wednesday night. MacDermid scored the  Illinois fencers charged with arson  
Hookie Tom Chorske notched the other goal for the Canadiens, who avenged a 2-0 loss in Boston on Monday  Whalers' first two goals in a span of 4:50 as Hartford won its second straight game to even its record at 2-2-0. Center  Associated Press CHAMPAIGN,  Ill.  - Two  Fitzpatrick, head of the Ul Police investigations division. Arrested on charges of arson were Conor Gorman, 19, of  set at $100,000 by Associate Judge Jeff Ford of Champaign County Circuit Court. "When I l'irst heard about  
night.Craig Janney and de­fcnseman Jim Wiemer scored  Ray Ferraro added a goal and two assists while Ed Kastelic  members of Illinois' nationally­ranked fencing team and a  Ocean City, N. J.; Glenn Schicker, 20, of Franklin Lakes,  (the fire) I said, 'Thank God my kids have enough sense not to  
for the Bruins. Wiemer's goal  10  seconds  completed scoring.  the  Hartford  third university student were charged Wednesday with set­ N. J.; and Aleck Zavalis, 20, of Malvern, Pa.  do something like that,"' said Ul fencing coaeh Art Schankin.  
into the third period gave the  The  start  was  Liut's  first  ting fire to the artificial turf in  Gorman,  a  sophomore,  and  "I've  never  had  any problem  
Bruins a 2-1 lead. But the Bruins' elation was brief. Eighteen seconds after  since an 8-2 loss to Washington last March 18, a game in which Dino Ciccarelli scored four  the football stadium. University police said the three students, who may have  Schicker, a junior, are members of the Ul fencing team. Zavalis is a junior.  with these kids." Ul Police Chief Paul Dollins said the three entered Memorial  
Wiemer's slap shot from the middle of the left circle beat goaltender Patrick Roy to the  goals en route to a seven-point night. MacDermid connected from  been drinking before the inci­dent, were identified by people who saw them playing with  Ms. Fitzpatrick declined to comment on the details of their statements, but said it was on  Stadium before dawn to burn words into the AstroTurf play­ing field using charcoal lighter  
far corner, the Canadiens tied it on Chorske's first career goal,  the right post at 3:38 on a pass from Dean Evason, then then  matches and a flammable liquid outside Memorial Stadium  the basis of the information they gave police that the  fluid. When the fire began to burn out of control, they fled,  
a seemingly harmless slap shot from the right circle that went past Hejean Lemelin's right  scored from the slot during a 5-on-3 power play at 8:28. Ferraro made it 3-0 at 12:17  shortly before blaze. "We have a  the Sept. 24 statement ...  charges were filed. The three were arrested Wednesday. Bond for each was  Dollins said. Ul firefighters extinguished the blaze.  


EVEN BIFOCALS & 
1111 E. Ireland Rd.
TRIFOCALS Buy a pair ofour 291-4000 Fashion Collection glasses ~d get a 
sa~•IGl
spare patr from our Premtum 1111111"""" DOCTOR """'"llllllj
Selection for $1, 
&:rA!fe,:l
No other discounts, previous orders, or sale items apply. 
Thursday, October 12, 1989 The Observer page 15 
CROSSWORD 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

ACROSS 1 Burden 5 "Get outa here!" 10 The Swedish Nightingale 14 Sidle 15 Amish pronoun 16 Anytime 17 Low card 18 White-water bobbers 19 Ind. city 20 Beery-Cooper film: 1934 23 Knick's rival 24 Gossip, perhaps 
25 Gulfweed 30 Weak 34 Island group off 
New Guinea 35-Gay 37 Old English 
letter 38 Lamarr film: 1948 42 Cuban counting 
word 43 Passive 44 Mythical hawk 45 Runway surface 47 Least extensive 50 Adjective suffixes 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

52 Held office 53 Harvey-Ireland 
film: 1972 60 Ananias 61 Social group 62 Track star Henry 63 Jason's craft 64 Artificial fabric 65Aiter MSS. 66 Prexy's aide 67 Gave an Xto 68 Prom partner 
DOWN 
1 End or hand preceder 2 Reputation 3 Chills and fever 4 Drives batty 5 Wing supports 6 Singe 7 Plentiful sNip-up 9 Base diner 10 Envoy 11 Lend! of tennis 12 Lunkhead 13 Saharan 21 Expanse 22 Hilo porch 

25 Portdu­
cheese 26 Battle zone 21 Dynamo part 28 Ballesteros of 
golf 29 Lulus 31 Verse for Keats 32 Loafs 33 Strongbox 36 Solemn promise 
39 Rain-forest plant 40 One who ingests 41 Alger's"­
Tom" 46 Millionth part of 
a meter 48 Belgian city 49 Crowd support 51 Father Junipero 53 Joyce's land 54 Grandiose tale 55 Joust 56 Navigational 
system 57 Black and white, 
e.g. 58 Military group 59 Sharp item, 
sometimes 60 Stripling 
COMICS 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
NO'N Mllt>·~At-\Nt.Rt.l) Cf..l'lll'l
... Al'lD rR\ES A CER\1\1~
AliGNED PER\tC.TL'i
STVI'ENIO's NAN CIRCLES 
1-lP.,S NO NEE\) TO Do \\\5
£LEMEN\I\R.'( 5(}-{00L
~In\ 1\-\E S\JN, 1\-\E.
111£. EI\RTH W\11-1 A 200­
1-\0~t..WORK EVER. f>IGP..IN .'
CLEM~ CH lt\E MPIP.'
Mt>.GNINII'-IG LENS ~USES
INCI-\ TRESCO?E LENS.' 
WILBUR AND WENDEL JAY HOSLER 



East of Eden 
JAM$~ 

CUSH1Nl:t l).PIIORIUM 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
B:co ~ 10: 1~ SHoWS ~MlS.S ION! t 1.J:0 
Sports 
Thursday, October 12, 1989 
Women's golf travels to Franklin Invitational 

Associated Press 
SAN FHANCISCO -Some ticket brokers think the World Series between San Francisco and Oakland is too local for their pocket books and fear the out-of-town money tap will go dry. 
Having two Bay area teams in the series "is kind of bad, be­cause you don't get people from out of town," said Hod Hudson of the Omni Ticket Agency of San Francisco. He said tourists usually take the first reason­able offer they receive, com­pared to local fans who shop around for lower prices. 
"We are getting buyers from surrounding cities in Northern California," Hudson said Wednesday. "But that's not re­ally 'out-of-town."' 
Hegarding Northern California interest, telephone company officials note about 
2.1 million callers hoping to buy tickets disrupted telephone service for two hours in com­munities throughout the north­ern part of the state on Tuesday. 
The callers were seeking 4,000 tickets that went on sale at 9 a.m. for the three Giants' home games at Candlestick Park. On Monday, a smaller number of tickets for the Oakland Athletics' home games at the Oakland Coliseum were scooped up in 1 1/2 hours. 
There's a buying frenzy by natives for Bay Bridge World Series tickets, but will it last? 
"No matter how big of a baseball fan they are, how many games are they going to go to," asked Jerry Adelman of Murray's Tickets in San Francisco. "Three, four?" 
But for now, brokers are finding it hard to keep up with demand. 
"My desk is loaded with work," said Joan Gordon, owner of the San Jose Box Office, where tickets for both the A's and Giants start at $225 per game in the outfield. 
In California, there is no law against scalping -selling tick­ets for more than the face value. 
The San Jose agency's man­ager, Margo Will, noted that few out-of-towners are lining up. The sales in San Jose are almost exclusively to local fans looking for any seat. 
The brokers hoping to cash in on the World Series aren't all loeal folks. 
Golden Tickets in Dallas was charging $150 to $700 for San Francisco tickets, depending on the seats. Oakland tiekets went for $175 to $600. 
If you fail with brokers, try hooking up with people who place ads in newspapers hawking tickets -including one man asking $15,000 for two tickets to all seven games. Another seller was offering four tickets and a limo ride, all for just $1,600 a game. 
The sky-high $15,000 price is being asked by Bill Shine, a tax accountant who had season tickets to both the Giants and A's. 
''I'm getting so many calls I can't believe it," he said. "No one has bought them yet but they don't seem to be balking. If someone wants to, they can buy them." 
Shine says he won't miss the World Series, but he will be in a less expensive seat -providing he sells his season tickets. 
Kurt Unger of Murray's said Shine can keep the tickets, es­timating the highest price the market will bear, even for front-row tickets to a seventh 
BY PETE CASTELLI 
Sports Writer 
After taking a week off from eompetition, the Notre Dame women's golf team is rested and ready to play. 
The golf team travels this Thursday to Franklin, Indiana for the Franklin College Invitational. The invitational is a one day tournament, and this is the first time since women's golf became a varsity sport in 1988 that thn Irish have competed in such a tournament. 
The Irish will join a field of nine teams which includes such golfing powerhouses as the University of Indianapolis, Miami of Ohio, Bradley , and Tennessee Tech. After surveying the competition, head coaeh Tom Hanlon is optimistic about the team's chances in the October 12th tourna­ment. 
"I am very positive going into this eompetition," .said the second-year head coach. "We have the talent, and if we play to our capabilities, there is no reason why we should not win." 
Hanlon's confidenee is due to the progress the team made last week in practice. "We are getting good play 
game, is $2,500. 
Another man, who would identify himself only as "Alan," offered seats in his luxury box at Candlestick for $1,295 eaeh per game. The box comes with phones, two television sets and a switch that calls "room ser­vice" to bring in food and drinks that usually have to be bought at a stand. 
The Bay Bridge World Series begins this weekend with games Saturday and Sunday in the Oakland Coliseum. After a day off, the series moves to Candlestick Park on Tuesday, Wednesday and -if needed ­Thursday. The sixth or seventh games, if needed, would be in Oakland. 
out of several people. Cappy Maek. a freshman, is im­proving with eaeh round she plays, and she is starting to develop eonfidcnee in her game. Pandora Feeko and Hoberta Bryer are also im­proving. They arc shooting well in praetiee, and if they eontinue this into the tour­nament, we should have a strong team." 
The Irish will be taking six players to Franklin for the tournament. Junior Huberta Bryer is first seat followed by teammates, freshman Kathy Phares, sophomore Allison Wojnas, junior Pandora Fceko, freshman Cappy Mack, and junior Heidi Hansen. 
The Competition will be strong for the Irish this Thursday, but competition is not the only factor that worries llanlon. 
"Aside from the competi­tion, one more factor stands in the girls' way this week­end-the difficult eoursc. It will be short and tight in some instances and long in others. However, if we con­eentrate, we should do well on it. 
"We have a young but very promising team this year. With hard work and effort and a little luek, we should be one of the stronger teams in our area." 
Brokers noted that San Francisco tickets are hotter than those for Oakland. 
"Definitely, the Giants are a hotter ticket right now," said Jim Burress of Murray's. 
The last line for buyers are scalpers who try to sell tickets just before game time at the stadium, an illegal enterprise. 
The high cost of the tickets sold by the individuals is not what makes selling tickets at the stadium a misdemeanor, said Alfred Gianninai of the San Francisco District Attorney's office. 
The key to making it illegal are the location and timing. The tickets must be sold on site and on the day of the event. 
.. 
Heisman-hopeful QB's lead teams into battle 
On paper, it looks like a classic quarterback duel. 
Dec Dowis of Air Force and Tony Rice of Notre Dame, who both figure to be among the five finalists for the lleisman Trophy, lead their undefeated teams against each other at Colorado Springs. 
Dowis leads an upstart squad against a team Rice directed to the national championship last season. Dowis has slightly better numbers (74 carries for 805 yards, 21-of-48 passing for 369 yards); Rice has more important numbers (a 21-2 record as a starting quarterback). 
There's nothing like a coach to try to silence this kind of talk. 
"Everyone is talking about the two quarterbacks," said Irish coach Lou Holtz. "But this game is a lot more than just Dee Dowis and Tony Rice, and I think those two would be the first to tell you that. You don't have an unbeaten record just because your quarterbaek plays well -you go 5-0 or 6-0 be­cause your team does what it needs in every area each week to win." 
Dowis certainly does not make up all of Air Force's potent rullJling attack. Fullback Rodney Lewis has 584 yards on 81 carries, halfback Greg Johnson has 396 yards on 66 carries and fullback Jason Jones has 333 yards on 55 carries. 
Air Force is averaging over seven yards per rush this season. 

Steve Megargee 
Football Notebook 
Notre Dame's offensive line averages over 273 pounds a man, an average of 35 pounds heavier than the Air Force defensive linemen. Holtz does not believe the Irish can just use that advantage to win Saturday. 
"We tried to do that three years ago and had some success," said Holtz. "But last year, we did not con­trol the scrimmage against them." 
The Irish defeated Air Force 41-13 last year be­hind three touchdown passes and some strong run­ning from Tony Brooks and Mark Green. 
"Those people who were breaking tackles for us last year are no longer with us," said Holtz. 
Air Force has won big in all six games it has played this season, but it took a while for the Falcons to climb into the national rankings. 
The reason for the skepticism lies in Air Force's schedule, which has thus far featured San Diego State, Wyoming, Northwestern, Texas-EI Paso, Colorado State and Navy. 
"All you have to do is look at the film -Air Force is for real," said Holtz. "I don't care if you're going against blocking dummies; to compile the statistics they have is impressive. They haven't been chal­lenged. I personally voted for them in my top 10." 
Holtz indicated that his team has an advantage in preparing for Air Force's wishbone attack becausr the Irish also run some plays out of the wishbone. 
He said that Notre Dame's defensive ends and secondary will be feeling the greatest pressure against the Falcons' complex offense. 
"In the wishbone, if one defender misses an as­signment, it will result in a big gain," said Holtz. "The secondary has to be ready to support against the run, but they still have to defend the pass." 
Aside from Raghib "Rocket" Ismail, Notre Dame's young receiving corps has not made much of an im­pact yet, but Holtz is impressed with what he has seen so far. 
"Tony Smith has eome along," said Holtz. "Pat Eilers is a role player and a solid player. Ray Griggs 
see FALCONS/page 13 









