
VOL. XXIII NO. 41 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
$20K in hall matching funds suspended 
By MONICA YANT 
News Writer 
Matching funds for residence halls have been suspended in­definitely as a result of damage caused by the Oct. 19 snowball light, Father David Tyson said in a letter to hall presidents. 
The matching funds account for over $20,000, which is al­lotted to the residence halls for capital improvements. 
"I cannot see any point in al­locating funds for hall life im­provement when those funds should be used to defray the cost of repairs to the halls," Tyson said in the letter, which was delivered to hall presi­dents' rooms during mid­semester break. 
The Office of Student Affairs refused to comment. 
Six stained glass chapel win­dows, as well as many dorm windows. were damaged during the snowball light. 
Several dorms had gained approval for funding before the suspension, and purchases were made with the assumption that two-thirds of the money would be matched by the Uni­versity, said Megan Hanley, Hall Presidents' Council co­chairperson. 
Trisha Power of Pasquerilla West and Christina Quiong of Siegfried said their halls bought pianos for their chapels with the understanding that the University would grant $700 and $1100, respectively, for the pianos. 
Flanner, Dillon, and Alumni halls also purchased items with matching funds in mind. 
"It's a rather silly measure to revoke the funds that the halls have already spent with the un­derstanding that they would get a two-thirds reimbursement," said Jim Schilder, student gov­ernment commissioner for campus improvements and se­curity. 
"Something needs to be done to make students aware that (vandalism) can't happen again," Student Body President Matt Breslin said, "but if this many dorms have spent the money, it may have a devastat­ing effect." 
Tyson stated in the letter that "Residence Life personnel met with student leaders to solicit their assistance. Apparently, the efforts of these people were insufficient to stem what is ap­proaching a riot." 
This meeting, according to Hanley, was called at 4 p.m. on Oct. 19, the day of the first snowfall on campus. The Office of Student Affairs asked Han­ley, HPC Co-Chairperson Diane 
see SNOW 1page 8 


1ne uoserver/BIII Mowle 


Bone chilling 
Hanging out at Keenan, a skeleton is strung from a window in the Halloween spririt. 
NO student falls victim to hit and run 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Assistant News Editor 
A Notre Dame graduate stu­dent was critically injured in a hit and run accident on Notre Dame Avenue. 
The accident occurred on Friday, Oct. 20 at 9:30 p.m., according to Chuck Hurley, as­sistant director of Security. 
Zheng-de Wang is presently listed in critical condition in the intensive care unit at St. Joseph's Medical Center, said a spokesperson from the center. 
Hurley said that a person in a motor vehicle told the officer at the Main Gate that there was a man lying in the road. He said that it was raining fairly hard that evening and the visibility was poor. 
When Hurley approached Wang a nurse was attending to the victim. Hurley said he called for an ambulance and Wang was taken to St. Joseph's Medi­cal Center. 
Security is pursuing leads in this case, but Hurley said that no further information could be released at this time. 
Arthur Grubert, director of International Student Affairs, said that Wang's parents are 
see HIT I page 8 

Senior falls 5 stories from balcony during Cancun trip 

By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Assistant News Editor 
Diane Toohey, a Notre Dame senior. was injured while on the Senior Class trip to Cancun, Mexico. 
According to the Office of Public Relations and Informa­tion. Toohey was injured at the Hotel Oasis at about 4 p.m. on Thursday. Oct. 26. 
She fell while trying to tra­verse from one room balcony to another. Public Relations said that she fell five stories onto concrete. 
Toohey was taken to La Clin­ica in Cancun and suffered cuts to the head, a possible concus­sion, and kn1'P and elbow in­ju!'ies, according to Public Rela.tions. 
Toohey was part of a group of over 70 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students spending break in Cancun under the su­pervision of two Saint Mary's staff members, including Mary Ellen Smith, director of student 
-

activities who called Saint Mary's with word of the acci­dent, according to Public Rela­tions. 
Smith said that she would make no comment except that Toohey was presently at home with her family in Erie, Penn. 
Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice president for student af­fairs, said that Mrs. Toohey telephoned her office on Mon­day. She said that her daughter was at hoJlle recuperating and 
hopes to return to school by 
Candy X-rays 'ineffective' ~~ly measure 
Associated Press 
Most of the nation's hospi­tals have pulled the plug on offers to X-ray Halloween goodies, saying the. once popular way to detect pins and needles is too costly and is ineffective in preventing poisoning. 
"It costs a fortune," said Rose Ann Soloway, of the Na­tional Capital Poison Center at Georgetown University Hospi· tal in Washington, D.C. 
"Someone calculated the 
cost in health care dollars, 
and it's an enormous amount 
of money nationwide," Ms. 
Soloway said. "It's money 
that'.s probably not well spent. 
"If candy is going to be tam­pered with, there's any num­ber of ways of doing it," she said. "X-rays can only detect foreign objects, especially 
metallic objects. X-rays can't ; ~pokeswoman in Huntington; detect chemicals or anything W.Va. that could be put on or into foods." Not all hospitals are taking 
Donna Siegfried, technical the advice of the nation's poi­safety specialist for the Na-son centers. Bob Blackburn, tiona! Safety Council in chief technician for Logan Chicago, said hospitals began General Hospital in Logan, using X-ray machines to ex-W.Va., said the hospital has amine Halloween treats in the ,X·rayed candy for the past mid-1970s, when reports of '"several years and will do so glass and pins lodged in goods again this year. became more frequent. 

''Th""'"' is no way to dete~t

But some officials . 
but we try to detec~ ahospitals are just fn..ei~u body. At least''

parents with a false sense 
r We're giving the child a chance,'' Blackburn said. 
"In the past, we have found different things, pins stuck into fruit and candy," he said. ''We caution the people when we do the candy for the kids. We caution them that we can't ,detect any poison." 
'" 

security. 
"We were concerned that parents who brought candy in to the emergency room to have it X-rayed and were told that there was nothing in it were led to believe it was safe," said Janet Ferguson, Cabell Huntington Hospital the end of the week. 
Student Body President Matt Breslin said he spoke to Toohey on Sunday. "She sounded real good," he said. "She knows she's very. fortunate." 
Breslin said she flew home Saturday with her mother and spent the night in a hospital in Erie. Toohey left the hospital on Sunday. 
Sh~ suffered a concussion, cuts and abrasitms on her body and her knee was cut up, stated Breslin. 
"She said she feels like she has the flu," said Breslin. He added that she has no broken bones. 
Toohey hopes to come back to school Friday, Breslin said. "She's looking forward to com­ing back." 
He said a mass of thanksgiv­ing was offered Sunday in Pas­querilla East where Toohey re­sides. Toohey said she is grate­ful for the support of the stu­dents who have called, accord­ing to Breslin. 
Black actor seeks to change stereotypes 

By LAUREL VITALE 
News Writer 
Giancarlo Esposito, black broadway and film actor in movies such as "Do the Right Thing," "School Daze," and "Taps," spoke to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students about his life and the issue of racism in films, television and theater Monday. 
Esposito expressed his wish for the development of a new culture when "people will real­ize that being different from what you are is not bad." He discussed the effect of films which promote racial stereo­types and shared his decision not to accept roles in the future which include violent minority behavior. 
"I don't want to perpetuate the stereotypical black drug dealer because young black people take it seriously and that is not healthy,"· said Es­posito. "Television violence is not the real world." 
Esposito shared with his au­dience many anecdotes and lessons he has learned in his 26 years of experience in show­business. He believes in love as the "universal language," and expressed the idea of self -ap­preciation and self-love. 
"In a country where being a minority is not easy, the only way to get accepted is to love yourself." 
Esposito believes that it will take independent film makers 
see ALM I page 8 


Tuesday, October 31, 1989
The Observer

page 2 INSIDE COLUMN 


Ozone layer needs to be protected too 
Substance abuse. 

We hear a lot about the abuse of alcohol and other drugs, but we don't trear enough about a substance abuse we are all guilty of: chlorofluo­rocarbons (CFC's). Janice O'Leary 
Everyone has heard 

News Copy Editor 
the ozone layer is being depleted, but goes in one ear and out the other. Maybe no one realizes how bad the problem is. Or maybe everyone thinks if they ignore it it will go away, or that someone else will take care of it. 
It was discovered in the mid-'70s that the widely used CFC's would someday erode the upper atmospheric ozone, but-"someday" came a little sooner than predicted. The thinning of the ozone layer was expected to begin over the South Pole, but it hasn't stopped there. The layer has not just thinned -there is a large hole in the ozone that is widening quickly toward South America, Australia and New Zealand. In 1984, this hole was larger than the United States and taller than -Mt. Everest, and these places are already feeling the effects of the hole. So are we. 
I live in New York and I can remember we always had snow at Christmas and some­times even at Easter. Not anymore. In January, one of the coldest months of the year, I couldn't even find enough snow in the Catskills to have a snowball fight. 
Some effects (or symptoms) of global warning and ozone depletion are terrible natural disasters. We have had several of these recently: Hurricane Hugo, which swept the Southeast, and the earthquake that rocked Oakland County in California. 
We have to find alternatives to CFC's. But 
what do we use that contains these deadly 
CFC's? Air-conditioning, aerosol sprays, 
solvents, Styrofoam, insulation and 
refrigerators all contain them. Because 
CFC's are cheap and easy to make they have 
become very wide-spread. 

This problem is worldwide, and it cannot 
be solved by a few government officials. We 
all need to be aware of it and stop it now. 
Instead of buying aerosol hairspray, we can 
just as easily buy pump sprays; we can tone 
down the air-conditioning; we can stop pur­
chasing Styrofoam cups. Every time you 
break that little tab off the Big Mac con­
tainer at McDonald's you are contributing 
to the breakdown of our ozone layer. 
Research has been done and still is under 
weigh to discover methods of preventing 
CFC's from escaping into the atmosphere. 
Scientists are trying to develop recovery 
systems to recycle CFC's into their original 
source. This is a start, but alone it is not 
enough. If the world's nations and their 
people continue their apathetic attitudes 
any research will be almost worthless. 
Everyone must become aware and begin to 
care about the air they and their children 
have to breathe. This awareness and con­
cern must begin with us right now. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Wednesday's Staff: 

News  Sports  Production  
Christine Walsh  Greg Guffey  Kathy Gliwa  
Janice O'Leary  Cheever Griffin  
Maria Reda  
Viewpoint  
Aa:enl Colleen Cronin Stephanie Snyder Alison Cocks Sarah Fisko  Ad Design Shannon Roach Val Poleno Meg Callahan kristie Rolke Laura Rossi  Kevin Reisch Molly Schwartz Syslems Gilbert Gomez Michael Gargiulo  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a mamber of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
EATHER The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, October 31. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
30 
WEATHER: 
Much cooler today with a 70 percent chance of rain until 
FRONTS: 

............... ........._ ............. 
about mid afternoon. High in 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1989 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
the mid 50s. Mostly clear 
Prnssurs 
tonight. Low in the mid 30s.

®© ~ ~ m ~ ~ 8 i) ~ u 
Increasing clouds Wednesday. 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
High around 50. 

VIa Associated Press GraphtcsNet 
WORLD 
Moslem fundamentalist and secular students bat­tled each other with homemade bombs, pistols and iron rods in Khulna,Bangladesh, leaving at least 50 people in­jured, police said Monday. The clash Sunday was precipi­tated by the campaign for the Nov. 4 student elections at Khulna College, police said by telephone. 
China is facing a musical talent shortage because top artists are leaving for foreign countries, an official daily said Monday_The China Youth News said 470 musi­cians, mostly highly skilled professionals, have gone abroad. 
The Soviet Union on Monday said it might cut oil exports by about 76,000 barrels a day in 1990 so the fuel could be used domestically. The Soviet Union suffers er­ratic domestic gasoline shortages, and Soviet TV has shown farms unable to harvest grain for lack of fuel. 
The European Commission in Brussels, Belgium said Monday it has decided to give $444,000 in relief goods to victims of recent typhoons in Vietnam.The three typhoons left 837,000 people homeless, the commission said. 
NATIONAL 
A magazine survey claims that people in leaving the idea politically lifeless. A 9.1-cent-per-gallon Springfield walk faster than their counterparts in 36 
tax was proposed. other U.S. cities. The results of the. survey in the Oct. issue 
Four people shouting "burn, baby, burn" set fire
of Psychology Today were a surprise for all, including the 
Monday to three American flags on the steps of the U.S.
residents of this western Massachusetts city. 
Capitol in an attempt to force a court test on the constitu­
tionality of a new law banning flag desecration.Capitol The White House on Monday shot down a suggestion police charged them with violating the Flag Protection Act by Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole that the federal of 1989, demonstrating without a permit and disorderly gasoline tax be increased to build new roads and bridges, conduct, said police spokesman Dan Nichols. 
INDIANA 
Batman and Joker costumes are hot-selling dis­A Purdue University student's car was covered guises this Halloween but the push for safe sex has made with spray-painted racial slurs and white crosses after full-body condoms the sales leader in one Bloomington, teen-agers dressed as Ku Klux Klansmen advised him to Ind. store.ln addition to the full-body condoms, condom leave a Lafayette neighborhood. caps and masks are also available. 
CAMPUS 
Dr. James Brady will be inaugu-::------­spend four nights at a resort. The winning package in­rated as the 6th president of cludes two tickets and transportation to the Nov. 25 Mi­Jacksonville University on Thursday, ami-Notre Dame game. Nov. 2. He received a B.A. in 1959,an 
M.A. in 1963 and his Ph.D. in 1969, all No major damage to campus grounds was reportedin economics, from Notre Dame. 
during fall break, the Grounds Department and Mainte­nance Department said. However, according to Frank Parker, the assistant director of the Building Services De­partment, Keenan and Stanford Halls showed some in­
The sophomore class Miami ticket rame winner 
ternal damage. He would not confirm whether this dam­is Jamie Fellrath, a junior from Grace Hall. Fellrath will age occurred during Fall Break. "They must have had a receive roundtrip transportation to Miami, where he will wild party," Parker said. 
Closings for October 30, 1989
OF INTEREST 
On-campus mail must be dropped at the mail room in the Administration Building to 
Volume in shares prevent being charged postage. 170.33 Million 
The Logan Center needs Navy tickets. 
NYSE Index

The ND/SMC Council for the Retarded is taking 185.59 -to.o1
the clients of Logan Center to the ND vs. Navy 
S&P Composite

football game. We need donated tickets to go. 
335.07 ito.o1
Tickets will be collected at ND and SMC dining 
Dow Jones Industrials 

halls on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday. 
2,603.48 {?-6.76
Questions? Call Peggy 284-4357 or John 283­1881. 
Precious Metals Gold f' $1.20 to $380.80 I oz. 
The Women's Liturgical Choir is looking Silver -f-3.8¢ to $5.283 I oz. for female vocalists. They will be holding an open 
Source: AP
rehearsal at 7 p.m. in Crowley Hall of Music. 


---~--------~-~-~-------~----------~---~------·--­
page 3 

Notre Dame trustee killed in auto accident 
Services will be held at ND 
Special to The Observer his gifts. His death is a 
grievous loss to us all." 
Father Thomas Oddo, presi­Father Oddo entered the Con­dent of the University of Port­gregation of Holy Cross in 1965 land and a member of the and was ordained in 1970. board of trustees of the Uni­While preparing for the priest­versity of Notre Dame, was hood, he served as a teaching killed Sunday, Oct. 29, in an assistant in theology at Notre auto accident following his re­Dame, as an assistant campus turn to Portland from a trip minister and as a resident as­that included the annual fall sistant in Flanner Hall. He was trustees' meeting at Notre an assistant professor of reli­Dame. gious studies at Stonehill Col­
lege in North Easton, Mass. 
Father Oddo, 45, died in­from 197 4 until his appoint­stantly about 3:40 P.S.T. when ment as Portland's president. his car was struck by an out­Father Oddo had served on of-control flatbed trailer carry­Holy Cross Provincial Commis­ing a disabled vehicle. The sions on justice and peace and trailer had become unhitched on continuing education. He from a pickup truck. was a member of the Provincial 
A native of New York City, Council and of the Congrega­Father Oddo received his tion's task force on higher edu­bachelor's degree in philosophy cation. He had served as a and his master's degree in trustee of Stonehill and of St. theology from Notre Dame in Edward's University in Austin, 1965 and 1969 respectively, Tex., was a member of the and a doctoral degree in board of advisors of Portland Christian theology from State University, and was a di­Harvard University in 1979. He rector of United Way of had been Portland's president Columbia-Willamette and the since 1982 and a Notre Dame Louisiana-Pacific Corporation. trustee since May 1989. 
Following services at Port­
"Father Oddo was a charis­land, Father Oddo's body will matic leader full of energy and be transported to Moreau Sem­drive and was extraordinarily inary on the Notre Dame cam­gifted as a pastor," said Uni­pus, where a wake service will versity President Father Ed­be held at 7:30 p.m. on Thurs­ward Malloy. "The students of day, Nov. 2. The Mass of the the University of Portland, the Resurrection, with Father Mal­university's faculty and admin­loy presiding, will be celebrated istration, the Portland com­at Moreau at 3:30 p.m. Friday, munity and many others-in­Nov. 3. Burial will be at Notre cluding the Notre Dame fam­Dame in the Holy Cross com­ily-all have benefitted from munity cemetery. 

The Observer/Bill Mowle 


Fall frolic 
Susan Li and Maureen Kline enjoy one of the many leaf piles on North Quad on Monday. 
ND/SMC relations to be analyzed 
BY SANDRA WIEGAND tee has not been decided, but separately or jointly. The pro­News Writer that he and Maggie Belin, Saint cess by which Saint Mary's ob­Mary's representative of the tains football tickets will be 
A committee consisting of Student Senate, will be co­discussed in this context. both Notre Dame and Saint chairs. Suggestions for social activi­Mary's faculty and students will "We want to promote Saint ties and implementation of sis­be formed to analyze relations Mary's on the Notre Dame ter dorms between Notre Dame between the campuses, said Ted campus," said Belin. "We have and Saint Mary's were made at Stumpf, a Notre Dame/Saint a lot of things to offer the the meeting. Mary's relations representative, women, a lot of things geared Matched funds for residence at the Student Senate meeting toward them." halls will be frozen this year as last night. "The stereotypes that have the result of the damage from 
"We will work to find out been created have caused the the snowball fight on October 19, said a senate representa­
what is the root of the strained strain," she said. 
tive. The funds amount torelations," said Stumpf. One of the goals of the about $20,000. 
committee will be to determine He said that the number of the rolls of each college, and representatives for the commit-whether they should function see SMC I page 8 

Ifyou're abright, ambitious college student, there's no room in your future for adull, nowhere job. 
Come to the!Etna informa­tion seminar, and we'll introduce you to opportunities as wide open and stimulating as your own imagination. 
We're amajor player in the changingworld offinancial ser­vices. With new, non-stop career paths and new challenges opening up almost every day. From product and service marketing to undetwrit­ing and actuarial to information systems and more. 
Comelearnaboutabetterway. At the!Etna information ses­sion, you'llleam you don't have to fit amold to fit into agood job.Just bring us your drive, imagination and aproven desire to achieve. Whether you're looking for acareer, or even an internship, we'll show you how!Etna could be one ofyour life's biggest growth opportunities. 

Iii""' 

There's No Stopping AGreat Start 
Date: Wednesday, November 1, 1989 Time: 6:00. 8:00PM Place: Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 



Detroit confronts annual problem of 'Devil's Night' fires in the metropolis 
Associated Press ligures and release them on Several fires were reported in connected with Devil's Night, Since then, the number of Monday. No injuries were re­garages on the city's lower east Leavens said. fires has decreased eaeh year. ported in any of the fires. side, according to the station. The police bomb squad took Last year, there were 229 fires
DETHOIT -Fires broke out Figures were also not avail­Firefighters on the east side the explosives away for dis­reported, for an average of 76 on the first night of a three­

able on the number of people were so busy that firefighters posal. per night. About 65 fires arenight Halloween-time curfew arrested under the curfew, said were called in from the west reported on a normal night inSunday as police, firelighters 
Police Officer John Leavens. side. Fires are set during Devil's Detroit, lire officials have said.
and citizen volunteers tried to 

An abandoned home was set Police found several cases of Night, which traditionally lasts
keep "Devil's Night" arson un­on fire twice within 90 minutes, dynamite, blasting caps and three nights, in a destructive The curfew, which allows po­der control. 

radio station WWJ-AM re­radio control devices in the celebration of Halloween. The lice to detain anyone under 18, 
Asked how many fires had ported. The second time, the garage of a vacant home on the practice drew national atten­went into effect at 6 p.m. and broken out, authorities said the blaze spread to an occupied northeast side Sunday night, tion in 1984, when 810 fires was to be in effect until 6 a.m. mayor's office would compile home. but weren't sure whether it was were set in Detroit. Monday. 
Calllpus Ministry and You 


0MPUS

---------------------MINISTRY-
Instead of running an article this week, the staff of Campus Ministry requests that you make a contribution on behalf of the Earthquake victims. 
Bring or mail your offering to: The Office of Campus Ministry 103 Hesburgh Library Campus 
We promise you that 100% of your gift will go to the earthquake victims. 
Thank you. 

'Military impostor' sues the 
U.S. Army for $5 million 
Associated Press 

Court here. The judge has not indicated when he willLOUISVILLE, Ky. -Ron rule.
Ferguson never learned how After Ferguson's arrest in to salute or put on a military June 1985, he spent two daysuniform properly, because in the Jefferson County jail the only time he spent in the and nine hours at Fort KnoxArmy was after he was ar­before his wife, with the as­

rested as a deserter and 

sistance of U.S. Rep. Ro­threatened with court-mar­mano Mazzoli's office, gottial. 
him released. 
Ferguson, who has sued Ferguson said he wasthe Army for $5 million, says frightened when an ol'licerthe whole mess began when said he was to be sent to a someone "stole his identity," military prison at Fort Leav­by taking his name and So­enworth, Kan., for court­cial Security number and en­martial.

listing. 

The Army admits the ar­"All this was new to me," 
rest was in error, but claims said Ferguson, who said 
it was Ferguson's respon­when he was told to put on 
sibility to clear up the confu­an Army uniform, he didn't 
sion before it got that far. know he was supposed to 
Ferguson says he notified a tuck his pants into his boots. 
recruiter, whose name he "And just because I didn't 
can't remember, several put it on right, they made me 
years before the imposter do push-ups." 
deserted. 

Now Ferguson, 35, of The calisthenics, along 
Louisville, is awaiting a with sleeping on a concrete 
judge's ruling in the case floor at the jail for two 
after a non-jury trial earlier nights, aggravated a back 
this month in U.S. District condition, he said. 
Poll: hostages must be freed 
Associated Press minority if the hostages might Reagan and now President 
be killed in the effort. Bush have labored with another 
NEW YORK -Most Ameri­Eighteen Westerners, includ­hostage crisis, the Americans cans favor rapprochement with ing eight Americans, are held in captive in Lebanon. Longest Iran in exchange for the release Lebanon, most by groups be­held is Terry Anderson, chief of the U.S. hostages in Le­lieved loyal to Iran. Iran has of­Middle East correspondent for banon, even though they see the fered to help free the captives if The Associated Press, kid­Islamic republic as a sponsor its assets held in U.S. banks napped in Mareh 1985. of world terrorism, a national were released. Washington's official position poll has found. It is unclear to what extent has been that negotiating for 
Iran controls the captors, if at the eaptives' release would en­
Ten years after the Iran all. In the poll, though, 72 per­courage more hostage taking. hostage crisis poisoned U.S.­cent said they believed Iran Forty-seven percent in the poll Iran relations, 61 percent in the does control the hostage tak­nonetheless favored dircet ne­Media General-Associated Press ers, and 79 percent said Iran gotiations, while 45 percent poll said Washington should of­supports international terror­opposed the idea. The rest were fer to resume normal ties if ism. unsure. Iran got the Americans in Le­Iran and the United States A majority, 55 percent, fa­banon freed. have been estranged since Nov. vored indirect negotiations 
Support was somewhat lower 4, 1979, when Iranian students, through a third party such as for releasing Iranian assets apparently with official sup­the Red Cross. locked in U.S. banks in trade port, seized the U.S. embassy in Respondents at first blush for the hostages' freedom, with Tehran and took 52 Americans supported military action, with 50 percent in favor. And re­hostage. 62 percent favoring the usc of spondents overwhelmingly re­They were held for 444 days, U.S. forces to try to free the jected paying ransom directly crippling President Carter's hostages. But if the hostages to the captors, with 85 percent administration and contribut­might be killed in a rescue at­opposed. ing to his defeat in the 1980 tempt -something strategists 
Respondents divided evenly on election. A rescue attempt have been unable to rule out­the idea of direct negotiations failed, killing eight servicemen, just 43 percent supported it. with the hostage takers, while and the prisoners were freed Military action was more most favored indirect negotia­only on Jan. 20, 1981, the day popular with men and with tions. A majority favored mili­of Ronald Reagan's inaugura­people who described them­tary action, but that fell to a tion. selves as conservatives. 
Brought to you weekly by the Office of Campus Ministry and The Observer 


----~----~­
Tuesday, October 31, 1989 The Observer pageS 
Student military pilot crashes into naval ship 
Associated Press the place. Bodies were spread 
throughout different areas." 
PENSACOLA, Fla. -A stu­In addition to the five dead, dent pilot making his first 19 people were injured, Logan landing attempt on an aircraft said. carrier was "low and slow" be­The pilot, Ensign Steven Pon­fore his training jet crashed on tell, 23, of Columbia, Md., was the USS Lexington, killing him the only one aboard the two-and four others, the ship's cap­seat trainer, a normal situation tain said Monday. when aviators make their first 
The T -2 Buckeye slammed carrier landings, Logan said. into the island, the same part Pontell, a 1988 graduate of the of the ship hit by a kamikaze U.S. Naval Academy in Annapo­plane in World War II, before lis, Md., was a member of cartwheeling across the deck Training Squadron 19 at and exploding in flames Sunday Meridian, Miss., Naval Air Sta-afternoon, said Capt. C. Flack tion. Logan. The Navy identified the other 
"It looked like a battle zone," dead as Petty Officer 3rd Class said Lt. Bruce Adams, a physi­Burnett Kilgore Jr., 19, of Holly cian and the ship's medical of­Springs, Miss.; Petty Officer 3rd ficer. "There were pieces of Class Timmy Garroutte, 30, of aircraft and of metal all over Memphis, Tenn.; and Airman 
'Open door' not yet a reality 
Associated Press subversive ideas among intel­lectuals and students. 
BEIJING -Less than a year The topic of relations has be­ago, Chinese and U.S. officials come so ideologically sensitive gathered at a glittering hotel that Chinese scholars on U.S. and celebrated 10 years of affairs refuse to be interviewed. friendship with dumplings and Many have been investigated Coca-Cola. for alleged involvement in the 
Then came the Chinese army democracy movement. attack in June on students demonstrating for democratic Months have gone by but reform, and both sides won­emotions remain high on both dered if they hadn't made a ter­sides, with little prospect of rible mistake. cooling soon. Leading propo­
Americans expressed horror nents of realpolitik, including that a country they regarded as former President Richard friendly was capable of such Nixon and his former aide, harsh repression. Alexander Haig, have visited 
Chinese officials accused Beijing and said it is in both Americans of taking advantage sides' interests to maintain of China's "open door" to sow good relations. 
Lisa Mayo, 25, of Oklahoma and waved him off, but he did area operating a Video camera City, all Lexington crew mem-not comply, Logan said. He said used to tape all landings. hers; and Byron Gervis an investigation would try to The Lexington is the Navy's Courvelle, 32, of Meridian, explain why. oldest carrier, its only one used Miss., a civilian employee of The plane flipped upside exclusively for training and the DynCorp which has a contract down before a wing tip hit the only one with women aboard. to maintain Navy aircraft. island just below the control The impact knocked Votolato 
The dead other than the pilot tower, the captain said. The to the floor, but she got back were all on the flight deck, offi-wing tip broke off and re-up and pointed her camera at cials said. mained embedded in the super-the flight deck in time to cap-
The ship was steaming in the structure when the Lexington ture the plane bursting into Gulf of Mexico in clear weather docked Monday. flames. about 30 miles south of its The jet's fuselage then Airman Darrell Gurley of In-home port here when the jet smashed into the side of the is-dianapolis was directing crew crashed. land, but the ship showed little members on the deck where to 
"As I see it," Logan said, "he evidence of the accident other park planes as they landed. ended up in a position which in than the wreckage of the plane, "He was headed straight for naval aviation is known as be-still upside down, covered with us," Gurley said. "I turned and ing low and slow, which is a orange and white parachutes. there was just a great boom. It very terrible place to be when shook me and I buckled down, you are coming aboard a ship." it hit at the feet of Airman but I knew I had to get out the 
Landing signal officers ra-Dee Votolato of Houma, La., door because the flames were dioed the pilot to add power who was inside a glassed-in coming right for my station." 
Pravda's editor meets the press 
Associated Press year-old editor seemed to hold Frolov opened Pravda's 8th weak commitment by today's floor conference room to for­
MOSCOW -The Gorbachev Communists as responsible as eign correspondents and confidant who is now Pravda's the party daily's content for sought their questions. editor met the foreign press its flagging fortunes. It was a unique opportunity Monday and made himself the "I can ask the question even to hear the views of a member target, a definite change at a more directly: Do we need of the policy-making party paper that has bashed impe­more genuine Communists, Central Committee now in rialists mercilessly for gen­members of the CPSU, than charge of the most authorita­erations. the already known number of tive, if no longer most widely 
Asked how he will stop a Pravda subscribers?" Frolov read, Soviet newspaper. sharp decline in readership in said, implying that the real As is the custom in such President Mikhail Gorbachev's Communist today is one who confrontations, Frolov occa­era of glasnost, or openness, dutifully reads the paper. sionally avoided straight an­Ivan Frolov said: "We shall Only one week into his new swers -on Pravda's circula­
· not seek to increase circula­job, the white-haired former tion, for example. tion at all costs." Gorbachev adviser already has Also, Soviet citizens no 
Although he offered some done something that would longer are required to take ideas for enlivening the gray have been a surprise coming Pravda to get another publi­columns -interviews with from his remote predecessor cation they really want, such members of the ruling Polit­Viktor Afanasyev, who ran the as a literary monthly or a buro, for instance -the 60-paper for 13 years. magazine about movies. 

Predict the future. Create, control, dissolve multi-million dollar financial instruments. Price corporate acquisitions. 
And help keep a handle on $100 billion in assets. 
Earn like an MBA. Learn like a Ph.D. Have more fun than bankers and more security than security brokers. 
Be an executive, financier, sociologist, economist, legis­lative expert, master communicator and mathematician. All in the same day. 
And do it all with the Best in the Business. Become an fEtna actuary and get ready for a clear shot at the top. 
Date: November 1, 1989 Time: 5:00 -7:00pm 
You Don't Have to be a Math Major. 
Philosophy, Physics, whatever your major, if you're interested in a career that uses your quantitative and ana­lytical mind, we'd like to talk to you. Just bring us a talent for communication and the desire to do something impor­tant. We'll give you the best actuarial and management training you can get. 
Proof? Talk to us. It gets even better. 

Be The Brains Behind The Business. 
Place: Alumni Room, Morris Inn 


We'll also discuss summer internship opportunities. 
-~----------------­
Tuesday, October 31, 1989

page 6 The Observer 
4,000 hold rally for quake victims 
Bette Midler wins lawsuit 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. -There was no parade for baseball's world champions on Monday, just a muted rally in whieh the Oakland Athletics' triumph mingled with memories of this city's recent tragedy. 
More than 4,000 fans of the A's, who completed a four­game sweep of the San Fran­cisco Gial}ts on Saturday, joined in the rally in Jack Lon­don Squarn. It bngan with mu­sie and a flag procession. A moment of silence plaimed for victims of the recent earthquake was forgotten in the excitement. 
"The longer you have to wait for something, the more it means to you," said A's Man­ager Tony La Hussa. "Nobody likes the reason we had to wait so long to be the world cham­pions, but I know it means a great deal to all of us." 
Eaeh of the players, standing in front of a banner that read, "Oakland's World Serious," spoke briefly to the crowd. 
A few minutes earlier, work­ers clearing battered vehicles from a crumpled section of In­terstate 880 removed the car in whieh the last survivor of the freeway's collapse, longshore­man Buck llelm, was trapped for four days. 
Helm remained in serious condition but continued to show slow improvement, said a spokeswoman for llighland Hospital. Thirty-nine people died in the freeway eollapse. 
There had been plans for a more traditional parade and eeremony at City Hall if the A's 
won the World Series. But 
those plans were canceled after 
the 7.1 magnitude quake struck 
Oet. 17, a half-hour before the 
originally scheduled third game 
at Candlestick Park. 
The game was postponed un­

til 10 days later, and the A's 
quickly ended the Series by 
winning the third and fourth 
games at Candlestick. 
Many of the buildings along 

the planned parade route re­
main roped off, still too dan. 
gerous to enter, and the ornate 
City Hall is so badly damaged it 
may never reopen. 
The rally, though small and tame compared with the parade after the San Francisco 49ers' Super Bowl victory last Jan­uary, signaled another step to­ward recovery by the Bay area. 
"People now are trying to find hope," said the Rev. Cecil Williams before his sermon Sunday at Glide Memorial Chureh in San Francisco. "Some people don't want to face the trauma, they don't want to face the pain. I'm hop­ing this will be a learning expe­rience. This is a tremendous opportunity for the city to be what's never been before, a new Jerusalem, a city that is more loving and equal and kind." 
Bay area companies, hoping to bring baek nervous tourists and conventioners, are mount­ing an advertising campaign to show the world that San Fran­cisco and Oakland still stand. 
"We've had our natural dis­aster, we don't want an eco­nomic disaster," said Shelby Allen, vice president for mar­keting for the San Francisco Convention and Visitors Bu­
reau, which is kicking off its 
pitch Thursday. 
Hyatt, which owns 1 0 hotels 

in the Bay area, is launching a 
similar campaign in six news­
papers across the country 
starting Tuesday. 
"We're doing a lot because the world thinks we've tumbled into the bay. We're trying to project the image that the city is not in rubble," said Charles McElroy, general manager of the Hyatt-Regency in San Fran­cisco. 
In Oakland, a coalition of business groups called Cele­brate Oakland hired three ad agencies to put together a campaign to show that the city is returning to normal. The Port of Oakland also is running ads headlined "Oakland Can Take It" in trade magazines. "We've taken some licks, but we're on our way back," the ad says. 
Recovery efforts also are con­tinuing strong with donations from around the country. 
A big truck rig carrying dis­aster relief supplies donated by the people of Evansville, Ind., was unloaded in Los Gatos for quake victims in that city, the Santa Cruz Mountains and Watsonville. 
The American Society of Plas­tic and Reconstructive Sur­geons, holding its annual meet­ing in San Francisco, asked each of the 2,000 attending doctors to donate $100 to help quake victims. 
Traffic remains a major problem that may be getting worse, with 1-880 partly closed and the San Francisco-Oaklanrl Bay Bridge still closed . 
The University ofNotre Dame 
Office of the Provost presents: 
Preservation Hall Jazz Band of New Orleans 
Tuesday, October 31 8:00p.m. Washington Hall 
Seats $10 $8 

Tickets available in Center Box Office 
MasterCard and Visa accepted 




against advertising agency 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES Entertainer Bette Midler should get $400,000 from an advertising agency that imitated the Grammy­winning singer's voice in a TV commercial, a federal jury ruled Monday. 
The U.S. District Court jury, which began deliberating Friday, decided that Young & Ru­bicam violated Miss Midler's rights by imitating her voice. 
In a statement given re­porters, the ageney ealled the award "unfortunate but bearable." 
Miss Midler testified, "I don't do commercials," and said one of her former baekup singers was hired to perform the song "Do You Wanna Dance?" for a 1986 Mercury Sable car commercial after she 
Welcomed to South Bend by 
WSBT<ilTV 22 
Your Hometown Station 
turned down a request from Ford Motor Co. 
Miss Midler also filed a $10 million lawsuit against Ford, but U.S. District Judge Wallace Tashima ruled Thursday there was insufficient evidence to proeeed against the ear eompany. 
Miss Midler's attorney, Peter Laird, said he hoped "national advertisers and advertising agencies will think twice in the future before they disregard the rights of artists." 
Laird told the jury his client never agreed to sing in the commercial, and she never would have. The agency "took what they couldn't buy from Midler," he said. 
"She had the right to say 
no.  That right  was  taken  
away  from  her,"  Laird  
said.  


STUDENTS, AFTER CHEERING NOTRE DAME TO VICTORY, CAP OFF THE DAY WITH THE PERFECT EVENING! RESERVED SEATS $18.00 &$23.00. ON SALE AT MORRIS AUDITORIUM OR CHARGE BY PHONE 
284-9190 

,....~---------~---~ 
-~------------­

----------------~~..-.~--~~------~---.------------~----------~----------~-----­
Tuesday, October 31, 1989 The Observer page 7 
Most and Least Healthy States 
The states are compared in terms ollife expectancy, incidence otmajor illnesses, lifestyle habits such as IObacco and alcohol consumption, access to medical care, absence from work due to lllness, and mortality rates. 
0 
f) North Dakota @Alabama e Idaho · · ·· ·· ·· ·· ... ··· ·:......r{~~i··.Marytantr·· .....:':"':·~··· .. ··· 0 Minnesota @ Florida a Hawaii ... @:Georgia 
m 
Vermont @ South Carolina Nebraska ·····@ N~vada
0 
e Colorado @ Michigan 0 Wyoming @){Mississippi·· m @ Delaware 
If you see Kathy Longstreth's beautifu I face around campus, Wish her a 
Happy Belated 21st Birthday ! 
Love you Bunches, Mom, Dad, Julie, Andy, and Amy 

131t7 VJ!INTS at little prices! 
Our "Top Of ·n1e Line" JUMBO SIZE COLOR prints are on sale! Get prints that are up to 37% larger than standard size, sleeved negatives and deluxe packaging within 2-3 days, when this coupon is presented at the time of the order, for only ... 

photo/graphics of Educational Media 
University of Notre Dame Center for Continuing Education, Rm 13 Notre Dr.me, IN 46556 I 219 • 239 • 7630 
00.-rappli• ooly to develop and printorden olll?mmC-41 proceNcolorptint.filmir\ glosr;y finWt. Offer mc:pin!a01!31/90. 
··························g········-~ 

KGB protestors clubbed by police 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -Helmeted riot police wielding truncheons re­peatedly charged and clubbed demonstrators Monday night after a candlelight vigil outside KGB headquarters in memory of Stalin's victims. Scores of protesters were knocked to the ground, beaten and dragged into police buses. 
About 40 people were de­tained, the official Tass news agency said, in what was the harshest crackdown on protesters in Moscow in more than 1 1/2 years. Tass said the protesters were "trying to cre­ate as much disruption as pos­sible, to display anti-Soviet posters and shout anti-Soviet slogans." 
The clashes took place on some of central Moscow's busi­est streets and were especially jarring because of the more permissive political climate in­stituted under President· Mikhail Gorbachev's wide­ranging reforms. 
About 1,000 Soviets con­verged on KGB headquarters at Dzerzhinsky Square after dusk to mark the unofficial "Day of the Political Prisoner" and mourn the millions who were wrongly imprisoned or killed under Josef Stalin. 
The hour-long protest, in which two rows of people hold­ing flickering candles lined up on three sides of the building, proceeded peacefully. It had been organized by the Memorial Society, which seeks to com­memorate those who suffered unjustly under Stalin, and the Democratic Union, a self-styled opposition to the Communist Party. 
At the end of the demonstra­tion, a splinter group of about 500 people, mostly young men, marched off in the direction of Pushkin Square, a favorite ral­lying site for human rights ac­tivists. 
Chanting, "Shame on the KGB!" and "The KGB is the en­emy of the people!" the group was confronted without warn­ing by riot police two blocks from Pushkin Square as they passed out leaflets to home­bound commuters. 
The white-helmeted police, armed with long black rubber truncheons, formed a line, then waded into the protesters, clubbing at least four of their leaders to the ground, then dragging them into nearby buses for detention. 
The demonstrators retreated, then formed again and headed to Gorky Street, the main thor­oughfare leading to Pushkin Square. The riot police and other uniformed officers sealed off the square and split the protesters into two groups. 
On Gorky Street, riot police again charged the demonstra­tors, taking about six into cus-
HEY COLLEEN GORMAN ... 
"PAUL SMALL" IS CALLING TO WISH YOU A -·· 
HAPPY 18TH BIRTHDAY!!!!! 
is looking for future leaders in Public Affairs. We offer a 2-year Master's program in Public Policy, with concentrations offered in: 
• 
Criminal Justice 


• 
Energy & Environmental Polley 

• 
Government & Business 

• 
Health Polley 


• 
Housing & Community Development 

• 
Human Services, Labor & Education 

•International 
Affairs & Security 

•International 
Development 

•International 
Trade & Finance 

• 
Press & Politics 

• 
Science & Technology 

• 
Transportation 


• 
Urban Economic Development 


Interested? Then come meet with the Kennedy School Representative who will be on your campus on: 
DATE: Wednesday, November 1 TIME: lOam & 11om group sessions 
LOCATION: Please contact your Career Placement Office for this information. 
ALL STUDENTS, ALL YEARS, ALL MAJORS WELCOME! 
tody. As the protesters were dragged to the buses, specta­tors shouted: "Shame! Shame!" Several passers-by spat at a police car. 
Another group of demonstra­tors, gathered on the southeast side of Pushkin Square, was also repeatedly charged by riot police, who ignored the dozens of television camera teams and foreign reporters who flocked there. 
Police formed a flying wedge to charge young people gath­ered under a Gorky Street archway, and dozens were seized bodily and dragged away to the waiting buses. 
It was the roughest treatment of an unsanctioned demonstra­tion in Moscow since December 1987, when about 200 burly men in civilian clothes roughed up Jews who staged a protest demanding the right to emi­grate on the eve of Gorbachev's departure for his Washington summit with Ronald Reagan. 
The 6 p.m. protest outside KGB headquarters began qui­etly as dozens of regular uni­formed police watched the demonstration and directed traffic around Dzerzhinsky Square. At the center of the squarP is a statue of Felix Dz­erzhinsky, founder of the Soviet secret policP. 
The demonstrators held can­dles and signs saying, "Shame on the KGB Executioners" and "Down with the KGB." 
Indian leader finds hostility in elections 
Associated Press 
NEW DELHI, India -The main opposition leader, barely able to file in time Monday be­cause of a bomb threat and other delays, accused the gov­erning party of "masterminding a plot" to keep him out of next month's elec­tions. 
Analysts say the parliamen­tary elections Nov. 22, 24 and 26 may be the closest since In­dia gained independence from Britain 42 years ago. 
Vishwanath Pratap Singh, leader of the Janata Dal party, filed his nomination papers in the Fatehpur district barely half an hour before the deadline on a day filled with delay and diversion. 
He had been airborne 28 minutes when his plane, part of the government-run Vayudoot Airlines fleet, returned to New Delhi because of a bomb threat. 
Singh conducted a protest at the airport, United News of In­dia reported. After a three­hour delay, in which no bomb was found but an unspecified technical problem was re­ported, the plane again took off for Kanpur, the nearest airport to Fatehpur. 
After that, Singh had to drive two hours to reach Fatehpur in time, an aide in New Delhi said. 
The 58-year-old opposition leader, a former ally of Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi who has served him as defense and fi­nance minister, claimed Gandhi's governing Congress Party was responsible. 
"It is a defeat of the govern­ment," said N.C. Jain, a Janata Dal official. "He reached Fatehpur barely 30 minutes be­fore the nominations were to close, but he did it." 
....~------~----~----~--~----~.-~~--~----w.~--------.-~.---~~----------------~------~..~~--------------------------·-----------------­

Snow 
continued from page 1 

Toohey and Breslin to discuss the possibilities of preventing the light, which usually occurs the night of the first snowfall on campus. 
The Administration offered no suggestions, said Hanley, adding that it wanted the stu­dent leaders to stop the light. 
Hanley and Toohey then called presidents of halls nor­mally involved in the annual light, asking. them to help dis­courage participants. 
"As far as we were concerned, that was all we could do," Hanley said. 
Hanley and Breslin said they were concerned by Tyson's comment that their efforts were unsuccessful. They said little advance warning and no administrative suggestions was not sufficient to stop the light. 
The University did issue a special bulletin on Oct. 19 to all halls. stating that "any individ­ual involved in throwing snow­balls ... will face serious disci­plinary consequences." 
"Further, the student body as a whole will be held account­able for any damage done to University property," Director of Residence Life Ann Firth said in the bulletin. 
Sorin Hall President Brian O'Keefe said Tyson's reaction is more than harsh. "I think he 
SMC 
continued from page 3 
Since many dorms have al­ready made purchases with their allotments, it is possible that the money to cover them will come from Student Activi­ties funds, decreasing the num­ber of social activities for all students. 

Film 
continued from page 1 
to change Hollywood's predom­inant attitude against hiring blacks and minorities in star­ring roles. 
The 32 -year-old actor is in­terested in making his own films. lie has had trouble in the past portraying a one-sided character and believes in full character development. Es­posito would like his movies to have a message. 
Hit 
continued from page 1 
flying in from China on Thurs­
day. He stated that he is having 
trouble arranging for a visa for 
Wang's brother. however. 
Grubert said he has telexed 

the U.S. Embassy in Bejing and 
faxed the U.S. State Depart­
ment in an effort to secure a 
visa for Wang's brother. 
"lie (Wang) is getting the best of treatment," said Gru­bert. According to him, Wang has been in a coma since the accident and suffers from an injury to the stem of the brain and blood clots. 
As a student in the sociology department, Wang is very well liked and has received much support from friends, Grubert said. He added that Wang's host family has been very help­ful. 
has a personal vendetta against the students. He's just trying to get back at us." 
O'Keefe said that freezing the funds will not teach the stu­dents any lesson. Instead, Tyson should have issued fair warning for his actions via newspaper coverage and letters to students, O'Keefe said. 
"It might be reasonable to take an amount from the funds, but (the snowball fight) is something that happens, and there's not much you can do to prevent it," he said. 
O'Keefe said that Tyson's de­cision may stem from the fact that his own room in Dillon Hall was damaged. 
"I don't think he would go to this drastic a step if he lived in Carroll or Holy Cross, and not Dillon," he said. 
Tyson's windows had been repaired before the USC game. 
John Moorman, director of maintenance, said that no di­rect funding is allotted for snowball damage. "We have a modest amount of maintenance money for each building," he said, but not for "non-routine wear and tear." 
Breslin said Tyson is freezing the $20,000 as a punishment, and also to only allow the halls to bring themselves back up to par, not for any capital im­provements. 
The matching funds differ from the $40,000 budget at­toted for Student Activities, 
The Quarter Mile, a fund raiser sponsored by United Way was cancelled last Friday as the result of the snowball light, and has been rescheduled for this Friday, a Student Sen­ate representative said. 
Hall Presidents Council Co­chair Diane Toohey, who was injured during the senior class trip to Cancun when she fell from a fourth floor balcony, is 
Esposito was born in Copen­hagen, Denmark of a black American mother and and Ital­ian father. He came to Cleve­land, Ohio with his family when he was six years old and be­came interested in acting at the age of seven. 
The actor describes himself as an "African European" and has shared hb singing and act­ing talent in the broadway pro­ductions of "Maggie Flynn," "The Me Nobody Knows," "Lost in the Stars" and "Via Galactia." 
The Observer 

which is administered by HPC. This money is granted for non­permanent improvements, such as social events. 
The problem facing student leaders is reimbursing those halls that have already spent their matching funds, Hanley said. 
"Punishment was directed to the wrong people," said Farley President Martha Wendel. "The people who do that kind of vandalism don't care about the dorms, but (administration) is punishing those who do," she said. 
Wendel also said that those involved in the incident proba­bly are not aware that match­ing funds exist. 
It is not the snowball fight it­self, but the few people acting maliciously who are the real culprits, Breslin said. 
"If a snowball fight can be done in such a way that there can be no vandalism or hurting each other, then that's okay," Breslin said. "But this just bla­tant vandalism and· that is wrong." 
"Fun is fun," Dillon Hall President Mick Meyer said, "but people know better than that." 
Hanley said the Administra­tion said last year that it was considering a punishment if the light occurred. "They've been planning it for a long time, but it was never brought to our at­tention. We weren't given enough time to prevent it." 
recovering from a concussion, a knee injury, and cuts and bruises, according to Matt Breslin, student body president. 
Off-campus commissioners will be meeting this week about an off-campus formal next semester, and recycled paper products are now available in the bookstore, senate represen­tatives said. 
M 
A 
T 
H 
1 
0 
1 

DONATE YOUR BODY TO HELP FIND A CURE. 

FLAG FOOTBALL 
DRIVE TOCURE PARALYSIS 
FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY NOVEMBER 17-19 
$25.00 ENTRY FEE PLAYEDATTHELOFTUS 
STUDENTS & STAFF NO HALL RESTRICTIONS 
ALL PARTICIPANTS GETA FREE T·SHIRT 
lV's TO THE TEAM WHO RAISES THE MOST$ 
REGISTER AT NVA 
DEADLINE NOVEMBERS 

USF&G NATIONAL COLLEGIATE DRIVE TO CURE PARALYSIS. 
Tuesday, October31, 1989 

;lllnifltl"llil~  of ,Notre ,!!Jnme  
~otrr  ~.. me.  c:Jinbiana:  46556  
tDfflu of I~•  Jlln 1Jr"U~ml  
AM"A COOl:  219  
jlhd!ornl J\ff•h·•  .238·5550  
October  24, 1989  
Dear:  

I am writing concerning the snowball fight of Thursday, October 19, 1989. This activity has degenerated into a dangerous situation which in recent years has involved an increasing amount of vandalism. Each year there are more injuries and broken windows. This year, six stained glass chapel windows received serious damage. The restoration of these windows, if even possible, will be very expensive. 
The University has repeatedly requested that this dangerous activity be tempered to stop injury and vandalism. This year Residence Life personnel met with student leaders to solicit their assistance. Appar­ently, the efforts of these people were insufficient to stem what is approaching a riot. 
The "mob dynamic" which develops makes crowd control and apprehension of those who intentionally damage property and persons near impossible. Though primarily a freshman phenomenon, upperclassmen have encouraged this activity. In short, it is a campus issue and requires campus responsibility. 
After consultation with other officers and the Student Affairs senior staff, I have requested that the matching funds for all residence halls be frozen indefinitely. I cannot see any point in allocating funds for hall life improvement when those funds should be used to defray the cost of repairs to the halls. When I am convinced that this type of activity will cease, there will be a reconsideration of the matching fund program. 
I suspect that this letter is disappointing. However, be assured that I am equally disappointed to have to write it. It was my expectation that common sense and concern for persons and property would have prevailed. Unfortunately, I was not correct. It is my understanding that the Office of Residence Life will be conducting a meeting of student leaders to again address this issue. It is my hope that the future efforts of dveryone will prevent a recurrence of activities that intentionally cause harm and damage to persons and property. 
Sincerely, 




Cjy-~ '/.'T,.·L­
(Rev.) David T. Tyson, c.s.c. Vice President for Student Affairs 
cc: Officers of the University Mrs. Evelyn Reinebold Rector 

A public servtce message from The Observer 

"Doesn't every Pre-med deserve a choice?" 
Tom Garcia, M.D. (UAG '75) Cardiologist Houston, Texas 

''The right choice was there when I needed it. I made that choice, and now I'm a physician. My alma mater may be just right for you. It's your choice." 

Universidad Aut6noma de Guadalajara School of Medicine 
Guadalajara, Mexico 
The International Choice 
For your free video preview call: 1-800-531-5494 
Join The Observer 

-~~~ -~--­

page 9 

30 mil. pensions at stake 
Supreme Court decision expected by July 
•Rejected, in a Virginia case, When a pension plan is ended 
Associated Press 
arguments that states must not with insufficient money to sat­
favor the clergy over secular isfy promised benefits, the fed­
WASHINGTON -Federal humanists in licensing people to eral agency becomes the pen­protection for 30 million Amer­perform weddings. sion plan's trustee, taking over ican workers' pensions could •Barred a lawsuit against the its assets and liabilities. The be at stake in a dispute the Christian Science church by a agency then pays all benefits Supreme Court agreed to re­Michigan couple whose 15-workers had earned as of the solve Monday. month-old boy died after they, date the pension plan ended. 
The justices said they will de­as church members, were coun­In fiscal year 1988, the PBGC cide what authority the Pension seled to rely on faith healing paid $324.7 million in insured Benefit Guaranty Corporation, and avoid seeking medical help. benefits to 113,000 retirees a federal agency, has to order •Left intact rulings that may who participated in 1,476 ter­employers to revive scraped let Urbana, Ohio, ban as ob­minated pension plans. pension plans. scene five nationally distributed The Dallas-based LTV Corp. 
A federal appeals court lim­"adult" magazines generally and LTV Steel, after filing for ited such authority by setting not considered hard-core reorganization under federal aside the agency's order that pornography. bankruptcy law in 1986, ad­
LTV Corp. and its subsidiary, •Agreed to decide whether the vised the PBGC that they could LTV Steel Co., restore three Port Authority of New York not and would not fund the pension plans with unfunded li­and New Jersey, and perhaps three pension plans they spon­
abilities of $2.3 billion. other multi-state agencies as sored. The plans, which have 
Government lawyers say the well, may be sued in federal about 100,000 participants, ruling, if not overturned, could courts. were terminated in 1987. make the agency "an open­•Said it will use a Chicago In a deal with the United ended source of industry drug case to consider expand­Steelworkers of America union, bailouts" and spark a financial ing the authority of police to however, LTV Steel agreed to crisis similar to the one facing 
search homes without court what government lawyers con­the government's insurance warrants. 
tend is a "follow-on" arrange­program for the savings and •Was urged during an oral ment. Under it, LTV agreed to
loan industry. 
argument session to strike make up any benefits lost to
The justices' decision is ex­down as "taxation without rep­employees because of the pen­pected by July. resentation" a federal judge's sion plans' termination -those In other matters Monday, the order that doubled local prop­benefits not covered by the fed­court: erty taxes to pay for racially eral pension insurance pro­
•Let stand rulings that desegregating Kansas City, gram.
blocked a Nebraska agency Mo., public schools. from imposing mandatory •Heard arguments over a The result was employeesblood testing for AIDS of em­challenge to the partial merger continued to receive the same ployees who come into direct of Detroit's two daily newspa­benefits they did before the contact with the mentally re­pers. plans were terminated, and 
tarded people the agency The pensions case focuses on payment of unfunded pension serves. the power of the Pension Bene­liabilities shifted to the PBGC. 
•Turned down an appeal by fit Guaranty Corporation, the James Earl Ray, serving a 99-agency that protects the pen­
The PBGC contends such ar­year prison sentence for the sion benefits of the 30 million rangements are abusive, and 1968 assassination of the Rev. Americans who participate in the agency ordered LTV to re­
Martin Luther King in Memphis, single-employer defined benefit assume responsibility for the Tenn. 
pension plans. three pension plans. 
Marcos contends Reaganapproved plea bargain 
Associated Press 
and approval," Hibey said. While the personal 
NEW YORK -Then­attention of the president President Reagan in a criminal case is personally approved a plea unusual, White House bargain offered to involvement can be Ferdinand and Imelda Mar­expected in sensitive cos three days before they matters that carry were indicted in October implications for U.S. 1988, Mrs. Marcos' foreign policy, government attorney says in court spokesmen said. papers. 
"It's not usual for the

The papers add detail to White House to be involvedreported failed negotiations in the conduct of cases. It'sjust before the deposed not usual for the attorneyPhilippine leader and his general to be involved inwife were charged with the handling of criminalsiphoning more than $100 
cases," Dave Runkel,
million out of their 
Justice Department
country's treasury and into spokesman, said Monday.
the United States. 
"But there are those timesMarcos died Sept. 28. His when issues do rise to thewife awaits trial at U.S. 
level of the attorney gen­
District Court in 
eral or the White House." 
Manhattan. Runkel and Reagan's
Mrs. Marcos' lawyer, 
spokesman, Mark
Richard Hibey, said in the 
Weinberg, declined to papers filed last month 
comment on the Marcosthat government lawyers case because it is pendingmade the plea offer during in the courts. 
a meeting at the Justice Department in Washington 
Marcos, who died Sept.

attended briefly by U.S. 
28, and his wife wereAttorney General Richard 
Thornburgh. charged in a racketeering indictment Oct. 21, 1988, three days after the
"The attorney general meeting described by Hibey.
started the meeting by advising us that the president was aware that The trial of Mrs. Marcos the meeting was taking and her other co­place, and what would be defendants, including Saudi conveyed to us during the financier Adnan conferenc-e had the Khashoggi, is scheduled to president's full knowledge begin March 14:" 

The University of Notre Dame Warmly Welcomes 


Michael P. Esposito, Jr. 
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER OF THE 
Chase Manhattan Bank 
AND ALUMNUS OF 
The University Of Notre Dame 
Mr. Esposito is hosting a reception on November 1, at the University Club, Upper Level, from 7 to 9 p.m., and warmly extends an invitation to all students and faculty who are interested in a discussion about career opportunities in finance at Chase. 


CHASE 
The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. 
33 Maiden Lane New York, NewYQrk 10081 
Tuesday, October 31, 1989

page 10 The Observer 
Witches at N.Y. Center for the Strange predict future 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK-Chicago-hog butcher for the world, tool maker, stacker of' wheat ... and global fashion capital? Ed Koch -U.S. ambassador to the United Nations? The newest fast food chain -McSushi? 
Do not adjust your set. You have entered the strange zone, a collection of forecasts, osten­sibly culled from a survey of American witches by very seri­ous folks at the New York Cen­ter for the Strange. 
Each year at llalloween, the center, which claims to be a non-profit organization in­volved in research, publishes a list of predictions based on a poll of 300 witches. 
Associate research director Lewis Scott insists these are not cackling types on brooms, but instead include a New York real estate tycoon, several members of Congress and the wife of a television evangelist. 
In addition to predicting that Chicago will replace Paris as a center for haute couture, Koch will become a diplomat and raw fish will be an even faster food than hamburgers, this year's survey finds that: 
•Vice 
President Dan Quayle will write a book of rhymes for preschoolers. 

•Geraldo 
Rivera will claim he was captured by visitors from outer space. 

•There 
will be nationwide shortages of herring, banjos, billiard balls and Marilyn Quayle posters. 



•A 
new book will claim that Zsa Zsa Gabor was born and raised in Ilouston. 

•The 
Japanese will market a line of large laptop computers for obese traveling executives. 


The Strange people claim a track record. In previous years, they predicted Hichard Nixon's resignation, new freedoms for Eastern Europe and low rat­ings for Pat Sajak's talk show, they say. 
But a look at predictions from 1987 does not inspire 
conlidence. 
Remember when British Prime ~inistPr Margaret Thatcher appeared in a Jane Fonda workout video? No? HemembPr when Miehacl Jack­son tried to adopt Jim and Tammy Bakker, or when Oliver North started a chain of mili­tary summer camps? Maybe your were out of town that week. 
Or maybe ... you were in the strange zone. 
WED., OCT. 18 

4:15p.m.: Three students reported the theft of their book bags and contents from the lobby of the South Dining Hall during the lunch hour. 
THURS., OCT. 19 

10:20 a.m.: Notre Dame Police responded to a two vehicle accident on Douglas Road. No injuries were reported 
2:30p.m.: Notre Dame Pollee arrested two people involved in a number of book bag thefts from campus. The two defendants were transported to St. Joseph County Jail. 
FRI., OCT. 20 

2:16 p.m.: An off campus student reported the theft of his books from a table on the second floor of the library. His loss IS estimated at $80. 
3:21 p.m.: Notre Dame Police were called to the scene of a two car accident on old Jun1per Road. No injuries were reported 
4:20 p.m.: Notre Dame Police responded to the report of a two car accident on Juniper Road. No injuries were reported. 
7:11p.m.: A Notre Dame student selling t-shirts near the JACC was stopped and h1s t-sh1rts confiscated. Selling t­shirts without perm1ssion from university officials IS a violation of university rules. 
9:48 p.m.: Notre Dame Police were called to the scene of a motor vehicle­pedestrian hit and run on Notre Dame Avenue. The pedestrian is currently in critical condition at St. Joseph Medical Center. 
11 :30 p.m.: Notre Dame Police ejected a Minnesota man from the Alumni/Senior Club for attempting to light a wall on fire. 
SAT., OCT. 21 
12:03 a.m.: A Michigan resident was cited by Notre Dame Police for Disregarding a Stop Sign at the corner of Juniper Road and Hesburgh Drive. 
1:18 a.m.: Notre Dame Police cited an Illinois resident for Disregarding a Stop Sign at the corner of Juniper Road and Hesburgh Drive. 
6:40 a.m.: An employee of the University reported that her car had been struck while parked behind the JACC sometime between 11 :50 a.m. and 
2:15 p.m. on 10/20. Damages are estimated to be $200. 
2:30p.m.: Notre Dame Police stopped a number of individuals attempting to sell football tickets for more than the face value. The tickets were confiscated and sent to the Athletic Department for further action. 
3 p.m.: Two Illinois men were stopped by Notre Dame Security for selling Notre Dame merchandise without permission from university officials. The merchandise was confiscated. 
4 p.m.: A resident of Breen-Phillips reported the theft of her locked bicycle 
SECURITY BEAT 
from the bike rack between Breen­Philliips and Farley. The theft occurred between 1 0/14 and 10/21 , and her loss is estimated at $100. 
4:30 p.m.: An Illinois man was arrested near the stadium for public intoxication. The defendant was transported to St. Joseph County Jail. 
6:45p.m.: An employee of the university reported that a coin operated machine had been broken into in the basement of LaFortune sometime between 10/20 and 6:30p.m. on 10/21. 
6:47 p.m.: A number of men were stopped by Notre Dame Police for selling merchandise without permission from university officials. Security confiscated the property. 
9:05p.m.: Two California men reponed the theft of binoculars and various items of clothing from the lower concourse of the CCE sometime between 7 and 9 p.m. Their combined losses are estimated at $500 
SUN., OCT. 22 
1:50 a.m.: An Illinois woman reported the theft of her jacket from the coat room of the Alumni/Senior Club sometime between 12:01 and 1:50 a.m. Her loss is estimated at $500. 
3:45a.m.: Notre Dame Security filed a report of vandalism to the east entrance of O'Shaughnessy Hall. The unknown vandal(s) had broken one of the window panes in the door. 
MON., OCT. 23 

10:20 a.m.: A resident of New York reported that his car had been vandalized while it was parked in Red Field between 1 and 9:30p.m. on 10/21. Damage is estimated to be $800. 
6:37 p.m.: A Mishawaka woman was cited by Notre Dame Police for Disregarding an Automatic Signal at the corner of Angela Blvd and Notre Dame Avenue. 
7:40p.m.: Notre Dame Police cited a South Bend man for Exceeding the Urban Speed Limit and for No License in Possession. The defendant had been travelling 58 mph in a 30 mph zone on Notre Dame Avenue. 
TUES., OCT. 24 

12:07 a.m.: Notre Dame Police cited a MA resident for Disregarding an Automatic Signal at the corner of Juniper and Dorr Roads. 
9:15p.m.: A visitor to campus reported the theft of his jacket from an athletic bag left unsecured and unattended near the snack bar area of the hockey arena. His loss is estimated at $37. 
WED., OCT. 25 

5:05 a.m.: A Notre Dame employee reported that the law school had been broken into between 3:40 and 5·05 a.m. At this time, no items have been reported missing. 
THURS., OCT. 26 
3:55 p.m.: A resident of University Village reported the theft of her unlocked bicycle from the front of her apartment building between 1 0/22 and noon on 10/25. Her loss is estimated at $30. 
5:30 p.m.: An off campus student reported that her vehicle had been broken into and a camera removed from the car. The incident occurred between 
9:30 p.m. on 10/25 and 3:30p.m. on 10/26. 
FRI., OCT. 27 
8:50p.m.: Notre Dame Police cited a Missouri resident for Disregarding an Automatic S1gnal at the corner of Angela Blvd and Notre Dame Avenue. 
9:15p.m.: A visitor to campus reported that his wallet had been taken from his pocket while he attended the Notre Dame pep rally. His loss is estimated at $147 
SAT., OCT. 28 
7:26 p.m.: A Grace Hall resident reported an attempted bicycle theft from the Knott bike rack. Notre Dame Police pursued the suspects until one of them was tackled by a visitor to campus. The suspect was then taken into custody. 
9:07 p.m.: Notre Dame Police responded to the report of a two vehicle accident on Edison road. One of the drivers was arrested for Driving While lntox1cated. 
IHiroJPJPY ~<dl 1B3iiniillucdlaly 
1rfunro~ 
from your "ND" pal, ABBY 
("ND" means "nice dog") 



The University Directories are in!! 
Off campus and graduate students, please pick them up at the secretary's desk on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. 
On-campus students contact your RA or Hall President. 

Coordinated between Student Government and HPC. 
Cinema at the Snite 
TONIGHT 7:00 
~-~--­








Viewpoint
Tuesday, October 31, 1989 
page 11 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Cocc1a Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor ....Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager... .. .. Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor .. . ............ Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ....... Shannon Roach Sports Editor... .. ............... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ............ Aiison Cocks Accent Editor.... .. ......... John Blasi Systems Mgr....... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor... . ..........Eric Bailey OTS Dlrector................... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor .. Christine Gill Controller............................. Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob­jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor. Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor. Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged. 


Militarism vs. religion: the great NO paradox 
benefits from this instruction in lence. I will bet some of you feel knowledge, to engage in cen­horizons and finding out about vioiPnrP. It gPts signifirant sort of uncomfortable hearing sorship by not allowing ROTC new things as much as, if notBy Kurt Mills amounts of money-millions of this, and that's good. If any of on campus. In addition, many more than, learning a trade. dollars-from ROTC scholar­you out there who consider will argue that the University Therefore, it is hardly incum­
Notre Dame is a great -place ships which they might not get yourselves Christians are not at exists to train people in their bent upon Notre Dame to have to be. Yet, at the same time, it otherwise, and ROTC provides least attempting to lead a non­chosen vocation, and that to ROTC. In addition, ROTC di­is one gigantic paradox. It is instructors, thereby relieving violent life, how can you say deny ten percent of the under­rectly contradicts this view of schizophrenic to the point of Notre Dame's financial burden that you follow Christ? The graduates what they want to education because it advocates 
psychosis. There are many rea­even further. What a great message is clear-do not harm learn is irresponsible. On the the use of violence, and, indeed, 
sons,,but I will talk about only deal. other people. By the same to­first question, I might agree to blind obedience to a hierarchy 
one. This concerns its identifi­At the same time, let us look ken, a university which pro­a point. It is definitely not the over thought and reason. cation as a Catholic university at the flip side-the teaching of fesses to be Catholic cannot role of education to censor Hardly the stuff of a free and and its actual practices. More peace rather than war. The condone the teaching of mur­ideas, whether they come in the open discourse on ideas. 
specifically, there is a funda­only degree program in peace der. The Catholic Church, in a form of advocating violence or mental and contradictory ten­studies is for an M.A.-about self-righteous proclamation, a movie like The Last Tempta­
If Notre Dame wants to besion between associating itself twenty-five people or so. There has decided that abortion is tion of Christ. If it allows true to its professed identity aswith Christianity and with the is, in addition, a concentration murder and therefore immoral. training in violence, however, I both Catholic and a University,militarism and violence it pro­in peace studies in which about I wonder, then, why they do not would say that, by definition, I should reexamine its supportmotes. one hundred and fifty students totally and absolutely condemn Notre Dame cannot be a 

for ROTC.

Militarism and violence, you participate-less than two per­all other violence and murder, Catholic university. 
say, what is this guy talking cent of the undergraduates, and the teaching thereof. On the second point, is voca­about? I'm talking about the and even this program is not Some will say that it is not tional training the point of col­Kurt Mills is a graduate stu­fact that ten percent of the un­accorded nearly the same the responsibility of the Univer­lege? I would hope not. Educa­dent in the Institute for Inter­dergraduates at Notre Dame stature as ROTC. Why? Well, sity to outlaw certain form of tion should be about expanding national Peace Studies. are in ROTC. Well yes, you say, among other things. money. 
ROTC is a big thing here, but is Notre Dame does not make it necessary. After all, we need money off of these people in the a strong defense in order to de­same way it does with ROTC. If fend this nation which God has the federal government decided 

Administration neglects academics 
chosen as special, and since to change its massively skewed Dear Editor, Rolfs was fixed. In stark people question other spending this is true, an institution asso­priorities and decided it was a I am writing in response to 
contrast to these athletic habits of our Catholic
ciated with Catholicism should good idea to instruct students Terence Coyne's Viewpoint arti­.improvements, only a couple of University. Last year the domedo what ever it can to further in the peaceful resolution of 
cle of Oct. 11 concerning the hundred yards away stand the on the administration buildingthis effort. conflicts and thought it was lack of student criticism of trailers which compose the was re-surfaced with real gold. What arrogance, and what a important enough to fund (I University authority. In addi­Aerospace building, a structure Why? Could the money spent on
total distortion of the "true" know it's a fantasy, but we all tion to agreeing whole-heart­'temporarily' erected in 1950. real gold leaf not have been message of Jesus which people need a few), I am sure Notre edly with Mr. Coyne, I think he Elsewhere on campus, only spent more wisely elsewhere,here believe they follow. Dame would be more than left out several key points of token improvement to such as on scholarships?
Whether one sees Jesus as a happy to take the money and criticism. classroom space has taken
historical figure or as some­set up a real major in peace First, while the University has place. Clearly, some questioning ofthing more, the message at­studies. As it stands, this con­superbly improved our athletic Although new academic University policies is needed.tributed to him is quite clear. It tradiction glares as a testimony facilities in the last few years, it buildings are now under con­Over-crowded classes, poor 
was pacifism, pure and simple. 
to the power of money. has neglected to equally struction, it is interesting to classroom facilities, and mis­It was turn the other cheek. It Moving away from money, improve the academic facilities. note that the athletic facilities guided spending policies are was love. 
and back to Catholicism, I am Certainly our athletes have the came first. While I realize that detrimental to improving our
Notre Dame hardly advances sure that many people at this rights to the best possible construction projects are University's reputation as anthese causes by advocating and very conservative institution facilities, but don't tuition­
funded mainly by donations, I academic institution. Studentsbenefitting from the teaching of will be shocked to find out that paying students have equal 
think the University should take and faculty alike should movekilling and mass destruction. Jesus was a radical. Yes, you rights to have less crowded a stronger position as to how their lunch table complaining to 
It's not join the army and see heard me right, a radical. Love classes and better ventilated the donations are spent. the doorstep of the administra­the world. It's join the army thy neighbor, as well as thy en­classroom space? Apparently Overcrowded classes and class­tion, for to do otherwise is toand learn how to napalm vil­emy, is a radical concept. How not. In my three years at Notre rooms should not be tolerated consent to their behavior.
lages, or join the Air Force and many people here, or anywhere, Dame, Loftus and the Eck 
as long as our athletes have learn how to commit genocide follow this? Not many. An even Tennis Pavilion were built, the spacious facilities in which to Daniel J. Faheyagainst the people of the Soviet more radical concept is nonvio­outdoor track was resurfaced, train. Off-Campus
Union. The university directly lence-total, absolute nonvio-and the recently built pool at I am also disturbed that few (Jet. 12, 1989 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
YOU'R& WCJr;Y, AU. RJ6HT! A WHOW HOIJSe FeU. ON YOU, 
MAN! ANI?AU YOU lJII? IS 
8R/3AI<. 'lOUR ARM.' C'MON, BUMMeR.. ?IT UP, GOTTA TAt<& ANX-RAY. ..4FICR5HCXX. I /3A'3Y. .. eA'.:>Y... 
'From ghoulies and ghosties and long-leggety beasties And things that go bump in the night, Good Lord, deliver us!' 
Cornish Prayer 

.------------.... ---------­
----------------------·----------------------~~---­
Ace• 



Halloween He 
Tired of burning the Candle at ba 
ALISON COCKS rules will enable unfortu-holism of the ritu accent writer nate sufferers to save their which represent·
A few drops of wax
GPA's, or to exact revenge the ritual may tal Editor's note: The following upon their professors. 
in a dish of cold shapes and colo~ 
article contains highly sensitille Candle burning rituals are Devil candle, ano material. The Obserller takes a simple, effective way to water can reveal Satan Be Gone Oii no responsibility for any ellil sway the forces of good burned to purify 1 resulting from misguided at-and evil to do an individ-what the future evil forces, for ex tempts to toy with the super-ual's bidding. No experi-Personal candles 
holds in store... lf the 
natural because of information ence is needed -just a lit-sistent with the c disclosed here. tie faith, a lot of focus and individual. Hiva rt
wax takes the 
ekindle the ability to light a match. that the personalthe light An altar is a must for the se-that is not only a
shape of an anchor,
in your rious spell-caster. Any flat sur-vorite, but one thr soul. Do face will do, but it must be a loved one is true. can feel. Most ritu 
not curse cleaned, anointed with holy wa-combination of ptthe dark-ter, and covered with a cloth. A pair of trousers astral candles pi~ ness--University sheets, while not points around thE light a particularly attractive, are per-signifies temptation Hiva includes a candle!" fectly acceptable if they're spells intended to
close at hand.
says clean. aspects of Americ Anna Hiva in her take-home Timing is also essential. white altar eandl! guide to spiritual power, Depending on the zodiac sign of important influence of all-and Frankincense oil, "Candle Burning Magic." the caster, certain days of the if that energy can best be chan-the front of the al 
Anyone whose midterm week and phases of the moon neled at a specifiied convenient 
sonal candle anoi1 grades are causing them are more favorable. In other hour each day ... TIIAT is the oil in the lower le grief need despair no words, as Hiva notes in her time best suited for your ef-red object candle longer: unity with a drop handbook, "Bear in mind when forts." Orange Blossom c slip is no longer necessary. making the decision that one's The color and shape of the right corner, and Following a few simple own mind powers are the most candle contribute to the sym-at the center are I 
How to call Plato for a philo paper 
JOHN BLASI 
accent editor 
II 
Hallow's Eve: the ghost of the Gipper haunts the steps of Washingt 

on Hall while Rockne's haunts the turrets of Sorin. The old dorms and buildings on campus are filled with phantoms just awaiting your call. All you need is a good medium, and a few friends and candles to set up your very own seance. 
"Notre Dame is an incredibly powerful positive force, and therefore a great place to have a seance," said the Reverend Barbara Anne Bell, a psychic and medium from South Bend. She explained that a seance re­quires the maximum amount of positive power from each indi­vidual in order for it to work. You must avoid those who emit a negative force -that is, those who do not wholly believe in the validity of the seance. Bell also recommended purifying the air with holy water and incense be­
.. •.. 

"People shouldn't be afraid of cemeteries. Cemeteries are consecrated ground. Evil spirits cannot be called up on consecrated ground." 
fore beginning the seance. 
In addition, Bell added that people shouldn't go to cemeter­ies in order to create a more ghoulish, frightening atmo­sphere. "People shouldn't be afraid of cemeteries. Cemeteries are consecrated ground. Evil spirits cannot be called up on consecrated ground." 
Spirits make contact with the material world through a per­son called a medium, of whom there are two kinds. 
The mental medium acts as a filter or receiver for messages from the spirits. Bell noted that "the spirit does not die, only the body dies." 
Physical mediums differ from mental ones in their ability to create physical phenomena, such as moving objects, making noises, and creating outpour­ings of ectoplasm which can take on human shapes. 
Most psychics recommend the use of a professional medium to control evil, untuly and mis­chievous spirits. 
Certain characteristics ac­company the medium's contact with spirits. 
First, during the sitting, the medium will usually rest quietly with closed eyes. A rapid change in breathing generally indicates the beginning of a trance. As he/she progresses into the trance, the medium will appear to fall asleep. Within a few moments, the medium will awaken and his/her personality will be taken over by the spirits. 
It is a good idea to think up several good questions before consulting your medium. According to "Channeling: The Intuitive Connection," questions posed for purposes of material gain can often times block the medium's "connection" with the spirit. In other words, to con­duct a seance for the "thrill" of it will probably not work. 
Hev. Bell had several predic­tions for Notre Dame this year. One in particular was that "Notre Dame will beat Miami and go to a bowl game for three consecutive years." Bell is willing to conduct seances for students for a small donation. "I'd love to investigate the ghost in Washington Hall, but I haven't had the opportunity to look into it yet," she said. Call her at 255-1625 for an appointment. 


keep you busy on campus as 
CAMP.US: 
At -the Snite: 

• 
Huie's Sermon/God's about the edges of <>YI'c:t<>nr<t 

• 
Sorcerer ( 1977). It is not a people trapped in primitive escape. 


At Cushing: 

• Young Frankenstein 
at 8 
• 
Nightmare on Elm Street 




LOCAL: 

And what would Halloween fact that Halloween falls right not have its annual scare, but 
• 
Studebaker Park in 


• 
Crossings Mall from 7:00 reservations: 287-4715. 



CHICAGO: 

• 
Hades Haunted House in area's scariest and is through takes nearly half admission. Open 6p.m. to 

• 
The Riviera Nightclub 


• 
400 Twin Theater on N. contest as part of its Show. 


-----~-~----------­




tline 
th ends? 

tion for the proposal spell. Simply light all the candles, al­low them to burn, and say "Shine with favor upon th~ one I love and light the path to the altar." Similar ceremonies can facilitate the breakup of an­other's love affair, help to dis­pel rumors, and even assist in winning a lawsuit. 
Not only that, candle wax can prove extremely adept at pre­dicting the future. A few drops of wax in a dish of cold water can reveal what the future holds in store. A little interpre­tation regarding shape may be necessary. If the wax takes the ~hape of an anchor, a loved one IS true. A pair of trousers signi­fies temptation close at hand. 
Psychic energy at this time of year is extremely potent. Students who find their GPA's are running away from them at this time might discover that a few minutes spent over sym­bolic candles are worth a few hours at the library. 

lendar 
with the perfect costume to hit one of the there are quite a fewother festivities to 
Man (1980). Two short documentaries haywire. movie, but one about four America and how they try to 
without haunted houses?Due to the lfter break this year, Carroll Hall will there are a few around South Bend. 
t. 
1.m. to 10:00 p.m. Call for 
l;ua Pa<k. Supposedly one of lhe 'd for the special effects. The walk 
hour, and is worth the $5 1 p.m. tume Contest. 1eridan Rd. is having costume ation of the Rocky Horror Picture 
page 13 
-

The ghosts of Washington Hall 
COLLEEN CRONIN 
assistant accent editor 
was sitting in the center of the 
stage in Washington Hall and it 
was completely dark. Not even 
the Exit lights were on. The 
room was pitch black. I looked 


' ' I 

up in the balcony and there, in the cen­ter of the very last row, I saw the shadow of a person! Really!" 
Many of the numerous Notre Dame alumni have related this story, as it is a rumor that has been around Washington Hall for years. Notre Dame has its own supposedly haunted building, just as any town or community does. But, is Wash­ington Hall supposedly haunted, or is it really haunted? 
The rumor of Washington Hall being haunted began back in the 1920s. For months, students living in the Hall heard peculiar noises coming from the locked band room -noises like someone play­ing a tuba or a trumpet. The band room was locked, however, and when opened, no one was inside. 
People have speculated that the phan­tom is George Gipp (he slept on the steps of Washington Hall on a cold night and became fatally ill), or a Cavalry soldier slain by Indians (the campus is built on hallowed Indian burial grounds.) 
After the spectral trumpeteer passed on, other ghosts took its place. These ghosts slammed doors on windless nights and flushed all the toilets at once, after all the students were in bed (they had a curfew back then.) One man claimed he saw a ghost on a phantom horse outside climbing the steps to the second floor. 
The ghost sightings were not just a 20s fad, either, because in the 60s the ghostly 
strong. ­
One student turned off the lights on stage and was then unable to turn them back on -there was some­thing, or someone, keeping the switch in the "off' position. 
In addition, before the Washing­ton Hall renovations, one room in the hall was painted black. A student sleeping in the room awoke with the feeling of not being alone in the room. In the moonlight coming through the window, he saw a figure, ten feet tall, standing in the window. 
Even as recently as 1985 the haunting has been reported. A group of students with a Ouija board set up on stage and asked the ghost if he (it?) wanted to speak with them. 
The pointer darted to "No" and "Good­bye" and stopped. when the students asked why, the pointer moved back and forth be­tween the letters "S" and "G," moved to "Goodbye" again, and stopped. The stu­dents fled. Once out of Washington Hall, they looked back and saw that a securi­ty guard had just woken up. They had been warned just in time. 
Is this ghostly figure a figment of active alumni imagination, or is 
I
someone truly there? Maybe this year we will find out. 
-l 
l 
~=-~~--------~--~-----,~--------~--~l_~--~claimsw~e-re__s_ti~ll-g·o-in-g•---~~--~~~.­
~~ 
~~~ 

-------------, Tuesday, October 31, 1989
a e 14 The Observer 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds 
The University Directories are in!!

WOULD LIKE TO OFFER NEED 4 SMU GA'S I need GA tixs for all home games YOU HAVE TICKETS, 
Off Campus and Graduate

DISCOVER CREDIT CARDS? ARE TIM 271-8795 Esp. for USC$$ 284-5227 Patty I NEED TICKETS:
\ NOTICES 2 Navy Stud. Tix, 5 SMU GA Tix. students, please pick them up at
YOU AVAILABLE FOR ONLY A the secretary's desk on the 2ndplease call Chris at 271-8860FEW HOURS/WEEK? IF SO, CALL I need 2 smu GAs.Call will at
PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard floor of LaFortune. On Campus
1-800-932-0528 EXT. 4. WE'LL x1876 or andy at x1965.
3 blks. from ND campus 233-2342 Mom and Dad are kind of weird. students contact your RA or Hall
PAY YOU AS MUCH AS President. Coordinated between $$$ FOR YOUR BOOKS $1 0.00/HOUR. ONLY TEN NAVY GA' S NEEDED Even after seeing the boring
WE BUY AND SELL USED Student Government and HPC.
Purdue game, they rarin' to see PERSONALS TEXTBOOKS !1111!11!!111!!1! CALL BRIAN X 1598 more ND football Help them out. 
POSITONS AVAILABLE. I WILL PAY AND TRADE PITI ST. 
ADOPTION, A LOVING
OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo. They'll buy any two GAs for any 
Spee-Dee ALTERNATIVE. 81 L ALUM AMY PENCE,
Summer, Yr. round, All Countries, "ATIENTION" home game.
Wordprocessing WISHES TO ADOPT AN INFANT IT'S NOT A CARD, DOESN'T
All fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO FACULTY, STUDENTS, ALUMNI Call #3714 and leave a message. 
237-1949 LOVING HOME, CERTIFIED TO SMELL AS NICE AS FLOWERS,
BX 52-Corona Del Mar CA 92625 I need one NAVY GA for Mom.
l 
ADOPT, EXPENSES PAID. CAN AND ISN'T REALLY MUCH OF A
Will pay $60 CASH for first offer. 2 Tixs to all Home Games for sale
WORD PROCESSING BE CONFIDENTIAL OR OPEN. IF PRESENT, EITHER...BUT A
Call Scott 1635 after 8:30 pm 272-5092
272-8827 YOU OR SOMEONE YOU KNOW COUPLE THOUSAND READERS
FORRENT 

IS CONSIDERING ADOPTION, HERE KNOW IT'S YOUR
'''WANTED: PENN ST & MIAMI
Spee-Dee CALL MIKE & JEAN COLLECT AT BIRTHDAY NOW, AND AT LEAST
ROOMMATE WANTED! TIX CALL Dennis x2002 NEED 4 NAVY GA's
Wordprocessing 602-482-0905. THIS ONE HOPES IT WAS
PERSON (MALE) TO SHARE PLEASE CALL KARIN
237-1949 GREAT. HAPPY BIRTHDAY, AMY!
TURT. CRK. APT PRIVATE 
x1321 

Hi TBass!!! PATRICKBEDROOM, FURNISHED, Help! Little sis coming fromWORDPROCESSING REASONABLE RENT CALL 277-Orygun to see S.M.U. Need 1
272-8827 Hi T.Bass!!! NAVY AND SMU TICKETS FOR
8398. STUD TIX . Please call #4939 INNER CITY KIDS. ST.
NEED smu ga's 277-5934 
ADOPTION Happily married white ADOPTION -Facing pregnancy STEPHEN'S CHURCH WOULD
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY "ATIENTION"
couple wishes to share love and alone? Let us help. Childless LIKE TO GIVE KIDS A CHANCE
219-291-7153 FACULTY, STUDENTS, ALUMNI Need Navy Tix
security with newborn. Expenses couple offering loving home and TO SEE NO PLAY. LIKE TO
I need one NAVY GA for Mom. 
$$No Issue

paid. Legal Please call Margaret secure future for your infant. DONATE A TICKET? WRITE OR 
-Will pay $60 CASH for first offer Jen 284-411 0
and Jerry collect 718-858-6250 Confidential -medical and legal CALL ED LANGLOIS, CSC AT
Call Scott x1635 after 8:30pm
evenings and weekends. FOR SALE expenses paid. Call collect MOREAU SEMINARY, 239-7735. 
Need 11 GA's for Navy. 271-8347. 
anytime, Sandy and Kurt (317)Ask for Tony or Sue.
Like John Belushi, Linda Lavin, Bill 894-5748. THEOLOGY AND COMMUNITY
$$$$$$
Murray, and Dan Akroyd? They've ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT SERVICE (THE0.273)
Earthquake victim needs a NAVY NEED USC-STUDENT TIXall graduated from SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. 
There once was a boy named Ted PERMISSION REQUIRED FROM
stud call Jeff @3546 $$$$ and SMU-GA'S. PLEASE CALL
"Second City"-com1ng Nov. 9-Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, who was a real zer CSC. PREREQUISITE -THEO.
AMY AT 283-4220.
don't miss 11. Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1-One night came a minor 100 OR 200. COME TO THE CSC 
sporting black lace wares OR PHONE 239-5293602-838-8885 EXT A6262. 
NEED NAVY STU. TX. 2819.
TYPING AVAILABLE He later felt finer IMMEDIATELY FOR
SEX! SEX! SEX!
287-4082. ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT after running his hand thru her hair INFORMATION CONCERNING
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S AND 2 SMU SMU Tickets They now re!er to him as Rollie APPLICATION FOR COURSESEIZED VEHICLES from $100. 
GA'S. CALL 1 ~M 277-6405. Students and/or GA's needed for 
because of what came to pass
Typing Overnight serviCe. Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, the SMU Game
277-6091 Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1-I NEED ONE NAVY STUD. Money's No Object!!! But disclosing his name is sheer JUNIORS II! II HEY, JUNIORS!!!! 
folly The FALL FORMAL PROOFS For ti1P. colonpl ;,.. · 
602-838-8885 EXT. A6262. TICKET PLEASE CALL MIKE Call Jeff@ x1150 .~~. 
Are In The Junior Class Office2065.

THE GROOVE GETIING ENGAGED? Tuesday Thru Friday.
$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$ '$.
IS LOOKING FOR 1 CARAT MARQUIS DIAMOND Come Order That Special Photo
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. CALL 283-$'
A BASS PLAYEA YOU ARE MY SUNSHINE, M1 Of You, Your Date, and The Cops!
RING 4 SALE. CALL 4012. 

2541. Need 2 Navy Student Tickets ONLY SUNSHINE 11111!1
1f interested call Leroy x2932 Call Norm x4785. Big money!

80 VW VANAGON. REBUILT Have a swell day Mamba! Happy Belated Birthday to
HELP!
TYPING term ENGINE. BODY EXCELLENT. Jen Adams and Chrissy Harper!!! 
NEED MANY NAVY TIX, STUD.
papers/reports/letters/resumes VERY RELIABLE. $2000. 234-Hope they were great!
WE NEED NAVY GA's OR STUD
Pick up & delivery available. 277-ORGA MARY MAHONEY! MARY Love you both! Shannon
8507. 

PLEASE CALL DAVE 3408.
5134 1Oam-8pm TIX. CALL DAVE OR MIKE XI 059 MAHONEY! MARY MAHONEY! 
BWCHESS! PPEMDS! THE COPY SHOP IS OPEN INATIENTION-GOVERNMENT 
NEED 3 NAVY GA'S. CALL JERRY 
(SMALL FAMILIES) THE BASEMENT OFSEIZED VEHICLES FROM $100. 
AT3227. I know this is a futile attempt I'm ready lor circus lunch, are you? LAFORTUNEFORDS, MERCEDES, bu1 I need 2 USC GA'2
LOST/FOUND ---your lovah Special this week 3-1/2" DS/DD
CORVETIES, CHEVYS. 

NEED MIAMI TIX. CALL GREG Please call, Michael @4521 
Molly computer disks are only 99¢SURPLUS BUYERS GUIDE. 1­
1653. LOST: 602-838-8885 EXT A6262. HOT PINK BOOK BAG AT NOH 
NEED 2 SMU STUD. TIX. CALL I NEED TWO SMU GA'S
ON 10117. I REALLY NEED WANTED: 4 NAVY TIX HELP... I NEED 10+ SMU
FOR SALE: KING SIZE JOHN 1665 CALL SCOTI X4113

CONTENTS, ESP. GLASSES! Ill WATERBED $150 674-5688 --------------------------------4USCTlX TICKETS. Please call Eric at PLEASE RETURN CONTACT NEED 2 NAVY GA'S & 1 STUD. 'X'PITTTIX #3543. SHERI AT #2964 THANKS. SMU. CALL JIM 1041. STUDENT OR GA'S ACCEPTED.
DE$$$$$$$$$PERATELY NEEDIs It True ....Jeeps for $44 through NAVY GAs X350D-Watts 
PLEASE CALL, CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable Help! I lost my father's blue coat at 312-742-1142 Ext. 7316. NEED 1 NAVY STUD TIC. CALL MATT@X1650 atmosphere, daily & weekly the Government? Call for facts I 1­NEED 4 SMU GA'S
the sophmore formal at SMC in SEAN 3015. specials, pool table, English darts, Haggar and I need it back. It is a Leading Edge computer, 1890 DONDONDONDONDONDON and great company. 234-3541 44R and has tissue in the left BADLY NEED 4-6 PENN ST GA'S.
monochrome monitor and Need Navy tix

pocket. If you mistakenly took it, Brother's letter quality printer -CALL MIKE 232-4208. I'M INFATUATED WITH YOU. 
Please call x1861
please call Chris at 288-4420. $800 Ph. 272-8827 YOU ARE SO SEXUAL!! NEEDED: 2 OR 3 NAVY GA'S. 
Need 5 Navy GA's-Julie X3141
Lost: Last Sunday 10/15 , 1 :00 , BRAD 3318. FEHRS FEHRS FEHRS FEHRS HALLOWEEN MOVIE NIGHT (10­
S. Stepan Football Field , During TICKETS -31) 8PM YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN
Navy GA's needed
a lnterHall football game Scapula 2 GA'S WANTED FOR SMU WELCOME BACK 10 PM NIGHTMARE ON'ELM
Call Chris 1623

with First Communion Medalion Travel Tour Operator needs GAME. WILL PAY REASONABLE STREET attached. If anyone knows it's tickets for all N.D. games-home PRICE. LEAVE MESSAGE AT SENIORS! SENIORS! $3CUSHING
NEED NAVY GA TIX. WILL PAY
whereabouts, Please call John and away, especially MSU, USC (313) 769-5329. HALLOWEEN BASH 
BIG BUCKS. CALL JOE AT 287­
Carlin at 1178, Serious and Miami. Premium price paid. at ALUMNI/SR. CLUB , 9-2. IT'S COLLEEN HOGAN'S
4561 AFTER 6PM.
sentamental value, "Cabbage" will Immediate case available. Will NEED ANAVY TICKET STUD. OR SCARY SPECIALS! BIRTHDAY! WISH HER A HAPPY be paid 11111111!11 trade for all major sporting events GA. CALL KIM 2971 . $2 DONATION BENEFITIING ONE AND ASK HER WHAT KIND
I NEED 6 NAVY TICKETS GA OR SENIOR FORMAL
including Final4, Indy 500 and OF MANUAL SHE USES?'!?
STUD CALL DIANE AT X4072 Lost: Class Ring outside Flannel 
NAVY NAVY NAVY. NEED 10 GA'S
bowl game, etc. Will also buy around 1 0/18 Reward call Brat season tickets. Please call Dave at $$$$$$$$$ 
OR STUD. FOR NAVY. CALL TOM SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS!! 1-800-828-8955 today. AT 1694. HALLOWEEN BASH Senior Informal is this Fridayx1389 HELP!!! 
at ALUMNI SR. CLUB 9-2 Buy txs in class office 3-5pmNEED 1 NAVY STU CALL MARISA
I NEED 2 NAVY TIX AND 2 SMU SCARY SPECIALS!
I'll buy any tickets for any home X3487 

game, or Miami. TIX. PREF STUD. PLEASE CALL $2 DONATIONS BENEFITIING To the SMUCS in 349 LeMans:

WANTED 

call JEFF at 239-3714, STACY2798. SENIOR FORMAL I love you all (or at least I'd like to!)
NEED NAVY GAS! X3553 
love,

BE ON T.V. many needed for leave a message. Thanks. 
MY BROTHER WILL TRADE IT'S NOT TOO LATE! ESPO
commercials. Now hiring all ages. NEED 2 NAVY GA'S CALL JEN
BEAUTIFUL EX-WIFE FOR 1 BE WILD & CRAZY TONITE WITH
For casting info. call (615) 779-NEEDED: 1 USC student tik! 277-4099
NAVY GA OR STUDENT TIC. INFLATABLE HEADGEAR,PLEASE call: Marci #26957111 Ext. T-1481 NICK2055. MASKS AND MAKEUP FROM 
1need 4 Navy GA's for my alumni ····················*··············· 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER
ATIENTION _.HIRING! Need TXTS All Games call Bill relatives. Call Terry at 2546.
I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S CALL LAFORTUNE BASEMENT NOTRE DAME...
277-3653 CHERIE 4969. Academic ExcellenceGovernment jobs -your area. 
$17,840-$69,485. Call 1-602-Need 4 GA and 2 Stud Navy Tixx HELP!! Sell me your Navy GA's838-8885. Ext R6262 call Rob or Scott at 1157
I NEED 4 SMU GA'S. PLEASE Call Tina at X4840 NOTRE DAME ... NAVY & SMU $$$$ NEED GAS FOR PITI, 
CALL MARY 288-0885. Athletic Prowess
BE ON T.V. many needed for Need SMU tix-call Karen x4541 Need X-MAS or bar cash?
commercials. Now hiring all ages. CALL TOM & MARTY 
HELP! ANGRY TOLEDO WOMEN Universrty Pizza is NOW HIRING Be on the lookout for the classiest
For casting info. call (615) 779-X 3185 Need 2 Navy GA's. Will pay a
ARE AFTER ME! NEED TWO SMU drivers and inside help. We'll work T-shirt on campus. Coming to a
7111 Ext. T-1481 magnaminous sum of money. Call 
You need TXTS. call277-3653 STUDENT TIX. $$$OR NAVY with any schedule (8-40 hrs/wk). dining hall near you! (or call x1634
Dan at 271-9901.
STUDENT TIX IN EXCHANGE. Good pay, great people!!! Apply at for details) 
ATIENTION-HIRING! .. ........................,. ...........
JOHN 1602. 18055 St. Rd. #23 (opposite
Government jobs -your area. WANTED Coach's & 3 drs closer to the mall).
I need USC,SMU and Miami GAs I NEED
$17,840-$69.485. Callt-602-TWO NAVY GA'S
Mike 287-3087

838-8885. Ext R6262 277-8398NAVY/SMU GA'S HAPPY 21st KATIE NAVY/SMU GA'S LONGSTRETH!II 
-ATIENTION: EARN MONEY Need two SMU tix please call 284­
WANTED

JEFF 3073. Hope you had a sober one!
4930!!!!!1!1!!

READING BOOKSI $32,000NEAR FOUR NAVY GA'S Have a great weeki POTENTIAL DETAILS. (1) 602-ONE NAVY STUD.
HELP!! I NEED 3 NAVY STUD. Luv your favorrte (underage) sis,
Need TXTS All Games call Bill TICKETS. CALL KEVIN 288-3032. Julie
838-8885 EXT BK 6262 CALL ALEX 1165 
277-3653 RIDE NEEDED TO SW NEED: SMU TICS 2GA 2STUD What is "Second City National
Need Navy GA's and students for 
VA/ROANOKE AREA FOR NEED GAS FOR PITI, X2862 JENN BEST OFFER Touring Co.?" Come and find out­
friends coming in this weekend.
THANKSGIVING. CALL TOM NAVY & SMU $$$$ your in for a comedy evening! Nov.
Please call Marty at x1868.
2299. CALL TOM & MARTY 9 X 3185 
I NEED NAVY,SMU,PENN ST, & MIAMI TIXS.272-6306 We need Navy G.A.'s 
You need TXTS. call277-3653 TOP$ Please call Jim and Jay at 1942.
EXCELLENT SUMMER & 

ALL HOME GA'S
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES NOW 312-920-9350AVAILABLE FOR COLLEGE 

I need USC,SMU and Miami GAs ROCHESTER CLUB MEETING
STUDENT & GRADUATES WITH ""'PLEASE HELP'"" 
Mike 287-3087 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ TOMORROW AT 6:45PM IN
RESORT HOTELS, THREE FIGHTIN' IRISH FANS
WANTED: MIAMI TICKETS SORIN ROOM OF LAFORTUNE.
CRUISELINES,AIRLINES,AMUSE WANT TO BRING LUCK TO OUR 
I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S AND 1 PITI CALL MATI AT 1961
MENT PARKS AND CAMPS. FOR TEAM THIS WEEKEND.. 
GA. CALL LARRY ATX.1864 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
MORE INFORMATION AND AN DON'T MAKE THEM CHEER MUST HAVE NAVY STUD!I BRO APPLICATION. WRITE NATIONAL NEEDED: FROM OUTSIDE THE STADIUM IS COMING. CALL STEVE 2400. COLLEGIATE RECREATION 2PITIGA's ""'Need 3 Navy tix'"" 
IIIII -AL CDLLEGim WW1B1 AI IIIIUitl 
TOU FRff NOIIMATION • RUfiiYATlONI

SERVICE, PO BOX 8074,HILTON WE NEED PITI GA'SI FOR MOM AND DAD Call Trish #2695 HEAD SC 29938. Call Pete-1643 or Mike-1672. #2030 HiAgl 1·800·321·5911 


----~----~~~-~~-~l 
Tuesday, October 31, 1989 
The Observer page 15 
-

LSU's Jackson winning battles against nervous disorder 
BATON HOUGE, La. (APJ ­The letters make the loss of privacy worthwhile for Chris Jackson. 
Only the second freshman ever named a college basketball All American, Jackson suffers from Tourette's syndrome, a nervous disorder that can cause victims to twitch, gesture, grunt or shout invol­untarily. 
Jackson seemed almost em­barrassed last year when knowledge of his illness accom­panied national attention given his basketball exploits. He av­eraged 30 points a game for Louisiana State University and twice topped 50 points in a game, breaking records set by Oklahoma's Waymon Tisdale when he was a freshman All­American at Oklahoma in the 1982-83 season. 
Going into his second season at LSU, Jackson is Dooded with letters from other victims of Tourette's syndrome. 
"I've had a lot of feedback on it -a lot of kids, a lot of par­ents write me telling me about their kids," he said. 
"Grown men have told me they were afraid to go outside for years. One man told me, 'You're doing so much. I'm not afraid to go out anymore.' I read one letter, a kid's mama wrote and said he read the ar­ticle in Sports Illustrated. She said he was reading about some of the things I do, and that encouraged him to try to do more." 
He said there is now an or­ganization devoted to providing information on Tourette's syn­drome. 
"They showed us a film with a guy, every second he was moving, talking, spitting, mak­ing signs. They told me I have a mild case. I'm kind of lucky. People have it worse than I have," he said. 
Opponents sometimes mis­took his involuntary gestures for hot-dogging and thought he was "woofing" at them when he grunted spontaneously. 
Medication can help control the symptoms, but work differ­ent ways on each person and have different side effects, he said. 
''I'm on some new medication prescribed by a specialist in Houston -Prozac in the morning and Prolyxin at night. It doesn't have some of the side effects of the medicine I was using," Jackson said. "It's working pretty good. 
"The last medicine made me gain weight and retain water. I felt bloated all the time. This makes me lose weight, which I prefer. I feel quicker and stronger. I'm 168 this year, and I got up to 188 last year. I felt stuffy. It made me want to sleep a lot. I was always drowsy. These don't make me drowsy at all." 
Misdiagnosis is a common problem for victims. Jackson was told he had some unfortunate habits. 
"I was in elementary school, and I'd like black out. I didn't know what was happening un­less someone tapped me our shouted real loud at me," he said. 
"I went to a doctor, and he gave me some medicine. He told me I was going to have some 
'habits.' That's all I knew it was -'habits.' 
"When I got in high school, the coach took me to a doctor, and that's when I found out there was a name for what I had. I felt a lot better. I knew I wasn't the only one in the world, and I knew there was something I could do for it." 
A common theme in the let­ters he gets from other victims is that they feel better knowing they are not alone, he said. 
His worst time was during his senior year in high school when recruiting got truly ugly, he said. Rumors circulated that he was almost a hostage of his mother, being auctioned off to the highest bidder. He denies those rumors but admits his mother tore up the first letter of intent he signed at LSU. 
"I didn't know what to do," he said. 
"When you get upset about something, that's when it really gets you. In high school, I was under so much pressure for a high school kid, and I didn't know what I wanted to do. That's when it was worst." 
Pressures of the game don't seem to bother him. He always appears calm on the court, even in nationally televised close games against ranked teams. 
''I'm always nervous before the game. I'm nervous, but I try to control it. Once I touch the ball, everything's OK," he said. 
It's off the court that things get rough. There's no such thing as a quiet stroll, any­more; it's always a procession. He's learned to write faster to get through throngs of auto­graph seekers. And he's learned to get to the gym early on Saturday's for a little private shooting practice before throngs gather for football games. 
"You don't have time for just basketball, anymore. You have to hit the books, and sometimes when you have free time, you just want to sleep," he said. "I like to get out in public, but I also like some peace some­times." 
And there are the letters to read. 

18 apply for free agency 
NEW YORK (AP) -Mark Langston ended his brief stay with the Montreal Expos Monday when he was among 18 players who filed for free agency on the first possible day. 
Langston, acquired by the 

Expos from Seattle on May 25, 
is seeking at least $3 million 
per season and is the most-tal­
ented starting pitcher available 
among the 117 players eligible 
for free agency. 
"The chances of him going 

back to the Expos are, well I 
wouldn't say never, but I would 
say very slim," said Arn Tellum, 
Langston's agent. 
First baseman Nick Esasky of 

the Boston H.ed Sox was the 
first player to declare free 
agency, filing with the Major 
League Baseball Players 
Association at 9:05 a.m. 
Outfielder Hubie Brooks, 
Langston's teammate on the 
Expos, also filed Mondav. 
Others filing included pitchers 

Jeff Heard on and Shane Rawley 
of Minnesota, pitchers Floyd 
Bannister and Steve Crawford 
of Kansas City, catcher Tony 
Pena and pitcher Ted Power of 
St. Louis, first baseman Pete 
O'Brien of Cleveland, pitchers 
Frank Tanana of Detroit and 
Walt Terrell of the New York 
Yankees, and outfielders Hick 
Leach of Texas and Lee Mazzilli 
of Toronto. 
Also filing Monday were out­

fielder Dave Collins of 
Cincinnati, pitcher Rick Hhoden 
of Houston, infielder Tim 
Teufel of the New York Mets 
and outfielder Carmelo 
Martinez of San Diego. ­
The remaining players eligible 

have until Nov. 13 to file. 
Two players who would have been eligible for free agency had their options for 1990 ex­ercised on Monday: George Bell ­of Toronto at $2.1 million and infielder Tom Foley of Montreal at $335,000. 
Seattle traded pitchers Randy Johnson, Scott Holman and Gene Harris to Montreal for Langston, who made $1.3 mil­
lion this season. The Expos have said they want to retain him but last week withdrew their offer. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Basketball ticket sales will continue Tuesday, Oct. 31. Juniors may buy tickets on Tuesday, sophomores, grad and law students on Wednesday and freshmen on Thursday. Tickets for the 11 home games are $55 for lower arena and $44 for bleachers. 
The Ski Club will hold a meeting on Wed. Nov. 1 in Room 118 of the Nieuwland Science Building. There will be sign­ups for team try-outs and the Christmas trip to Jackson I tole. For information call 3662 or 2962. 
Synchronized Swin Club will have a mandatory practice on Wed. Nov. 1 at the Rockne Memorial Pool from 4:30-6 
p.m. Call Katie or Jackie at 2626 or 4161 if you cannot make it. 
The Sailing Club will have a meeting at 6:30 p.m. tonight in room 104 O'Shag. Practical tests will be given during lesson hours through next week. 
Non-Varsity Athletics deadlines for men's and women's interhall, grad and dub basketball, interhall hockey, wally­ball, turkey shoot, who's who in hoops and flag football drive for paralysis will be Nov. 8. Call NVA at 239-6100 for more information. 
JACC Court Reservations for volleyball and basketball will be done according the following procedures: Requests must be submitted on the "Court Heservation Form" avail­able at NVA ; they will be accepted starting 9 a.m. Nov. 1 and not later than 5 p.m. Nov. 15; failure to use the allot­ted time on two occasions will lead to the cancellation of remaining schedule; all reservations must start and end on the hour assigned; after Nov. 20 weekly reservations may be allowed if time available; reservation requests must be submitted in the NVA office. 
Maleeva avoids upset bid in opening round of Slims 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) Defending champion and top­seed Katerina Maleeva fought of a sluggish first set and ral­lied to defeat unseeded Tami Whitlinger, 4-6, 6-1, 6-2 Monday night in the first round of the Virginia Slims of Indianapolis. 
The 20-year-old Maleeva, ranked 14th in the world, used a solid repetoire of first serves and deadly drop shots to put away the 20-year-old American from Neenah, Wis. 
"My drop shots are just a good weapon that 1 learned from growing up on clay courts," Maleeva said. "We were hitting the ball very hard on the rallies, and so I thought she was probably waiting more for the hard shots instead of the drops. To tell the truth I was surprised they worked so well." 
The Bulgarian-born Maleeva had little trouble with Whitlinger after the first set. In the first set, Maleeva led 4-3 and was up a break before Whitlinger rallied to win three straight games, including two service breaks. 
"I got tentative and nervous after the first set and I wasn't letting myself play my game," said Whitlinger, ranked 132nd. "I was encouraged to know I could play that well against a great player, but I still have a lot of room for improvement." 

ND hockey splits weekend games 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Associate Sports Editor 
In a weekend that saw plenty of goals and youth but not much defense, the Notre Dame hockey team opened its season by splitting two games with the Rochester Institute of Technology at the Joyce ACC. 
The Irish scored in the final minute of regulation and the last minute of overtime to win the opening game 6-5, but Notre Dame defensive break­downs helped RIT take the sec­ond contest 7-3. 
"We're a little faster than we were last year, but we also have a little more hockey savvy," said Irish coach Ric Schafer, who is looking to keep last year's 10-26-2 campaign a thing of the past. "We have some freshmen who know how to play who have complemented our team nicely." 
Those freshmen came in handy in the season opener, as the play of newcomers like Sterling Black and Dan Sawyer helped Notre Dame stay close and eventually win the game. 
"I was pleased with the way our freshmen played; you had to look at the program to real­ize they were freshmen," said Schafer. "They weren't nervous­looking. They performed very well." 
The Irish had a most inauspi­cious first 10 minutes to their season. RIT, which reached the Division Ill national finals last season, scored twice in the first three minutes and added an­other goal midway through the first period to take a 3-0 lead. 
Black backhanded a shot in from the right circle at 16:07 of 

NOW INTERVIEWING ON CAMPUS. 
We are now accepting applications for management positions in: 
HEALTH CARE ADMINISTRATION FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT 
SYSTEMS ANALYSIS 
PATIENT ADMINISTRATION PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT 
GENERAL HOSPITAL ADMINISTRATION Opportunities for college seniors and graduates with Majors in Business. Excellent pay and benefits, including 30 days paid vacation each year and FREE medical and dental care. A NAVY Representative will be at the PLACEMENT CENTER on NOVEMBER 7th & 8th from 8:30am to 4:30pm. 
For additional information call: 1-800-527-8836 
--
THEOLOGY AT SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE SPRING 1990 ELECTIVES 
RLST 339  Religion & Literature  Tu 6pm  Egan  
RLST 351  Religion & Politics:  TT 2:45pm  Martin  
Liberation Theology  
RLST 366 Christianity & Women  M  6pm  Incandela  

ND students fulfill second requirement in theology by taking any RLST course 201-299. ND students fulfill the first requirement by taking RLST 200. 
ND registration for SMC theology courses at ND Registrar's Office at assigned times. Fill out SMC intent form by November 6 at ND Registrar's Office. 
Information: 284-4636 

the first period, cutting the Tiger lead to 3-1 at the first in­termission. 
Notre Dame proceeded to dominate matters in the second period, as RIT penalties enabled the Irish to get back into the game. Robert Copeland scored the second Irish goal on a power play at 3:19 of the pe­riod, with freshman Curtis Janicke recording the assist. 
After RIT answered that six minutes later with Todd Person's second goal of the evening, second-period scores by Notre Dame's Michael Curry and Lou Zadra tied the game at 4-4. 
"That second period was as good as any practice or scrim­mage we've had all year," said Schafer. 
With both teams failing to take advantage of third-period scoring opportunities, RIT's Charlie Forselius finally gave the Tigers a 5-4 lead with 2:05 remaining. 
Another penalty cost the Tigers. On a power play situa­tion, David Bankoske, last year's leading scorer, knocked in the tying goal with 52 sec­onds left in the game. 
Bankoske had an assist on the winning goal, a long slap shot by Sawyer with 57 sec­onds left in the five-minute overtime. 
"There were a couple of op­portunities to say, 'Here we go again,' when we were down 3-0 or when they got the go-ahead goal with 1 1/2 minutes left in the game," said Schafer. "Their hard work was rewarded." 
Things did not look quite as bright for Notre Dame the fol­lowing day, though the Irish did get off to a better start this time. 
After HIT's Scott Martin opened the scoring 3:16 into the game, Michael Curry tied the game 16:41 into the opening period and Bankoske gave Notre Dame the lead 7:07 into the second period. 
But the Irish allowed four goals in the closing half of the second period, with three of RIT's scores coming in a span of less than three minutes. 
"There were plenty of defen­sive breakdowns,'' said Schafer. "We had a lot of lackluster play. If it happens in the next game or the one after, I'll give you an exact reason for it. Right now, it was just an off­night. We didn't play well." 
Black scored to make it a 5-3 game with 15 minutes left. But RIT's Tim Cordick scored just 36 seconds after Black's tally, and Chris Palmer added another goal for the Tigers with just 20 seconds remaining as both teams evened their records at 1-1. 
RIT scored a pair of short­
handed goals in its win Friday. 
"That was a nemesis for us 
last year," said Schafer. "That 
could be my fault in our 
preparations when we practice 
the power play. I guess we need 
to make it more gamelike. 
"Your teammate may slow down to help you out, but your oppo~.ent sure doesn't slow down. 
Notre Dame will host Holy 
Cross this weekend at the Joyce 
ACC. 

GRADUATE STUDY 
1n 

AEROSPACE ENGINEERING at GEORGIA TECH 
Major areas of study and research: 
* 
Aerodynamics 

* 
Aeroelasticity 

* 
Biofluid Mechanics 

* 
Combustion 

* 
Computational Fluid Dynamics 

* 
Computer-Aided Design 

* 
Flight Mechanics & Controls 

* 
Propulsion 

* 
Rotary Wing Technology 

* 
Structural Dynamics 

* 
Structures -Composites 

* 
Underwater Explosions 


Write or call: 
Dr. C.V. Smith, Graduate Coordinator School of Aerospace Engineering Department # 77 Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0150 
( 404) 894-6046 
The Observer page 17 
Irish disappointed with MCC showing 
By BARBARA MORAN Sports Writer 
The women's cross country team had a bittersweet midsemester break, taking both a strong win over Marquette in a dual meet at the outset of break and a tough loss to Dayton at the MCC championships last weekend. 
The Irish had a decisive win over MCC rival Marquette, beating the Warriors by a score of 18 to 
44. Only one Marquette run­ner finished in the top five, with Notre Dame capturing the top two spots. Irish run­ner Lucy Nusrala placed first overall, with teammate Amy Blaising taking second. 
Irish coach Tim Connelly was pleased with the results and praised his runners for a "good team effort." 
The MCC meet was another story. Notre Dame placed a dis­appointing second, finishing 
behind a tough Dayton squad. Both teams placed two runners in the top ten, but Dayton finished with a total score of 35, while the Irish ended up with 57 points. Lucy Nusrala again finished first for the Irish, taking fourth overall. The other top ten finisher for Notre Dame was Amy Blaising , who took ninth overall. Both Blaising and Nusrala were awarded All­Conference honors. 
"We should have won," said the coach. "We just didn't run well. Dayton had a better team last year, but they beat us more convinc­ingly this year. They beat us by two points last year, but at least we competed last year." 
''I'm not really sure why we ran so poorly," said Connelly. "We were certainly well rested. Dayton just beat us. They're not a better team in terms of talent, they just wanted it more than we did." 

Men capture conference title again 
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 
They did it again. 
For the second year in a row, the men's cross country team captured the Midwestern Collegiate Conference champi­onship, beating out seven other teams for the title. 
The Irish won in impressive fashion, placing six runners in the top ten to edge second place Loyola by eight points, 27-35. 
The meet, held Saturday in Milwaukee, ended up as a battle between Notre Dame and Loyola, a team the Irish de­feated earlier this year at the National Catholics, when Notre Dame finished first and Loyola took third. 
Head coach Joe Piane and the rest of the Irish runners antici­pated that Loyola and Notre Dame would be the dominant teams, which proved to be cor­rect as runners from the two teams made up nine of the top ten finishers. But Loyola was unable to upset the Irish. 
"We knew it would be a dual meet between Loyola and us, and that's the way it turned out," said Piane. "It was a good meet, though, and a good preparation for the NCAAs." 
Mike O'Connor continued to lead the Irish at the MCC Championships as he has done all year for the team. O'Connor was the third overall finisher in the race, following two runners from Loyola. 
Freshman J.T. Burke placed fourth, and Pat Kearns was close behind in fifth. Kearns contines to post good numbers as he struggles to come back from injuries. 
Loyola took the sixth spot in the race, but Notre Dame's Tom O'Rourke came in seventh to complete the Irish scoring and secure the victory. 
"I was pleased with our top seven runners, but I am also confident that our fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh can run bet­ter," Piane said. 
Marquette was a distant third in the meet, with a total of 80 points. The rest of the field of eight squads accumulated over 100 points each. 
The Irish victory at the MCC Championships was the second triumph for the team over fall break. On October 21, the Irish hosted Southern California and had an easy victory, trouncing the Trojans 17-44. 
O'Connor, Burke, O'Rourke and Kearns were the top fmish­ers in the race. Southern Cal averted a sweep by taking the fifth and sixth places, but Ryan Cahill placed seventh to round out the Irish scoring. Notre Dame had seven runners across the finish line before USC had a third finisher. Southern Cal's much-touted Fredson Mayiek did not present any challenge for the victory, and the Irish payed the Trojans back for last year's defeat. 
"They had beaten us the year before, so the guys wanted to prove something," Piane said. "Our kids were really very fired up." 
The USC meet and the MCC championships both served as valuable experience and confi­dence boosters for the Irish as they head into the NCAA District IV meet in two weeks. The meet qualifies four teams for the NCAA championships, held on November 20. Notre Dame has placed in the top ten in the country in the past two years with strong performances 
in the  NCAAs,  and  the  Irish  
would  like  to  repeat  that  
success.  

Question: How do you reach over 12 000 people daily? 
' 
Answer: Buy Observer ad space. Call 239-6900 . 

Think BefOre You Drink BefOre YOU Drive 




Cutting Edge Review Sharpens Study Skills 
CHICAGO-Viewed by the industry as the most progressive CPA review program in the country, Conviser Duffy continues to make unprecedented achieve­ments in applying accelerated learning techniques. 
Michael J. Duffy, National Program Director, feels that the learning method used by their lecturers "eliminates the mental block that inhibits most students' natural learning ability. As the student becomes more relaxed, his or her ability to recall increases." 
Duffy feels that his program exercises the ability of the CPA candidate to both visualize their goal (passing the CPA exam) and realize it. How? By learning to do the following: 
-Create a relaxed study environment -Make the mental associations upon which visual learning depends -Rehearse and immediately reinforce information -Organize and group ideas -Interact with the lecturer. 
The above points are neatly tied together with Conviser Duffy's live/video presentation, comprehensive textbooks, workbook, tape make-up facilities and unconditional guarantee. 
Says Duffy, "Preparing for the CPA exam is serious business and it takes a ­serious commitment from both parties to succeed." Ali this is powerful news for the accountant who wants to gain his certification with the most professional streamline review on the market. 
Further information may be obtained by phoning 1-800-274-EXAM. 
--~ -~ ------~---­
Baseball squad falls to USC, 8-1 

By STEVE MEGARGEE Associate Sports Editor 

Bearing a lineup almost en­tirely different from that which reached the NCAA tournament last year, the Notre Dame baseball team fell 8-1 to Southern California in the Irish Fall Classic at Coveleski Stadium. 
Aside from Joe Binkiewicz at first base, Cory Mee at second, captain Ed Lund at catcher and Brian Piotrowicz as the starting pitcher, none of the players on last year's Irish starting lineup were returning starters at their positions. The Irish will be entering this spring with vir­tually a brand-new team. 
The inexperienced Irish team compiled five errors and man­aged only six hits off a very sound USC pitching staff. 
"Our youth showed," Notre Dame coach Pat Murphy said after the Oct. 21 afternoon con­test. "The credit goes to USC. That team, like Miami last year, will be in the College World Series. You can't beat teams like that every time." 
Notre Dame developed a rep­utation last season for knock­ing off the nation's elite, sweeping a two-game exhibi­tion series with Miami over the fall, then beating Texas and Miami during the regular sea­son. 
Texas and Miami each were 
ranked among the nation's top 
five teams before playing Notre Dame, and both eventually reached the College World Series. 
But the only surprising ele­ment of this contest, sponsored by the South Bend Tribune, was that it even came off at all. Regulary scheduled for the nights of Oct. 19-20 (the two days before the Notre Dame­USC football game), those con­tests got postponed by the un­seasonal snowfall. 
The exhibition contest finally was played on a sunny Sunday afternoon, the day after the football game. 

USC wasted no time getting on the scoreboard, with Brett Jenkins hitting a towering two­out solo home run to left field off Piotrowicz in the first in­ning. The Trojans added a sin­gle run in the second inning. 
Notre Dame then kept the game close, with freshman pitcher David Sinnes holding USC scoreless for the next three innings 
USC put the game away with a four-run outburst in the sixth inning. The Trojans had only two hits in the inning, but they took advantage of a Notre Dame fielding error and four walks allowed by Irish pitchers. 
Damon Buford, the son of former major leaguer Don, de­livered the key blow, a bases­loaded double that scored Mike Robertson and Corey Aurand. Buford went on to score on a sacrifice fly by Bret Boone, the son of major leaguer Bob. 


Oakland marks win in quiet celebration 
The Irish scored their only run in the eighth, when pinch­hitter Jason Martinez hit a sac­rifice fly that scored Mee, who had led off the inning with a double. 
USC added two runs in the 
ninth, as the Irish committed 
two errors. 

Three of Notre Dame's errors 
came from the third base posi­

tion. Following the departure 
of Pat Pesavento last spring, 
Murphy moved third baseman 
Mike Coss to shortstop and had 
Craig Counsell go from the 
outfield to third base. Counsell 
committed two errors, and re­

placement Mike Rooney had one 
of the ninth-inning miscues. 

"We've got a problem at third base," said Murphy. "We don't have a solid third baseman. We're going to rectify that problem really quick." 
Sophomore Brian Conway and freshmen Pat Leahy, Chris Michalak and Alan Walania all had turns on the mound after Sinnes left the game in the sixth. Murphy was most im­pressed with the performances of Sinnes, Michalak and Walania. 
Following the game, Boone (2-for-2, 2 RBI) was named as USC's most valuable player for the game and Mike Rotkis (2­of-3) received the same honor for Notre Dame. 

OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) ­A mile from the site of the earthquake's worst disas­ter, Oakland celebrated a World Series victory Monday in a muted rally that recalled the wreckage and marked the city's re­newal. 
More than 4,000 fans of the Oakland Athletics, who completed a four-game sweep of the San Francisco Giants on Saturday, joined in the rally in Jack London Square that began with music, a flag processional and a moment of silence for quake victims. 
The parade was subdued compared to the celebra­tion after the San Francisco 49ers' Super Bowl victory last January, but the A's were still grate­ful. 
"The longer you have to wait for something, the more it means to you," A's Manager Tony La Russa said. "Nobody likes the reason we had to wait so long to be the world cham­pions, but I know it means a great deal to all of us." 
The 1989 Athletics, La Russa said, are among the best teams in baseball his­tory, including the 1975 Cincinnati Reds and the 1927 New York Yankees. 
Each of the players, standing in front of a ban­ner that read, "Oakland's World Serious," spoke briefly to the crowd. 
LET'S HEAR IT FOR ITIEMAN! 
"After last year's disap­pointing loss to the Dodgers, the most gratify­ing part about winning this year was showing the whole world what the A's are really like," third baseman Carney Lansford said. 
Pitcher Dave Stewart, an Oakland native and MVP of the Series after winning the first and third games, drew one of the loudest ovations. 
"Last year when the Series was over," he said, "the one thing we all said in the clubhouse is that there were two teams that played in the World Series. One won, but there was only one ballclub that could expect to come back again next year. And we were that club." 
A few minutes earlier and a mile away, workers clearing battered vehides from the crumpled section of Interstate 880 removed the car in which the last survivor of the collapse was trapped for four days. Thirty-nine people died in the Oct. 17 earthquake. 
Plans for a more tradi­tional parade and ceremony at City Hall were canceled because of the disaster, which occurred a half-hour before the originally scheduled third game at Candlestick Park. 


YOUR 21st ON THE 31st 

Tuesday, October 31, 1989 The Observer page 19 
Giants shut down Viking offense 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. against a team that hadn't al­had 2 1/2. Marshall had two (AP) -Pepper Johnson re­lowed a point in the third pe­and Banks 1 1/2. And they held turned an interception 39 yards riod in its previous seven Walker, who had gained 237 for a touchdown to ignite a 17-games. yards in his first two games as point third-quarter burst that For Minnesota, which fell to a Viking, to 68 yards in 12 car­gave the New York Giants a 24-5-3 and into a tie with Chicago ries, many late in the game with 14 victory over Minnesota atop the NFC Central, it was a New York in a prevent defense. Monday night in a midterm test matter of failing to take advan­Naturally, the game-turning for two of the NFL's toughest tage of chances after the loss play was the product of pres­teams. of Simms, who was hurt when sure and came 3:56 into the The Giants, who improved to he was sacked by AI Noga. second half with the Vikings, 
7-1 while breaking a four-game Tommy Kramer hit Herschel unable to convert their oppor­Minnesota winning streak, won Walker with an 8-yard pass to tunities, still holding that 7-0 despite losing quarterback Phil give the Vikings a 7-0 lead 6:45 lead. Simms to an ankle injury on into the game -the first points With cornerback Mark Collins their first series of the game. allowed in the first quarter by blitzing from the left side, 
They made up for that by the Giants this season. Kramer tried to throw under forcing turnovers. Besides But the Vikings spent the rest pressure. Johnson's interception there of the first half squandering He overthrew Alfred were fumbles on consecutive chances only to be thwarted by Anderson and Johnson was kickoffs that set up Jeff a defense led by Leonard there to grab the ball. He raced Hostetler's 11-yard TD pass to Marshall, Carl Banks and down the right sideline, hulling Lionel Manuel in the third quar­Lawrence Taylor that rose up past Vikings and dove into the ter and Ottis Anderson's 2-yard when it had to while the offense end zone to tie it 7-7. touchdown run 12 seconds into sputtered under Hostetler. On the next possession, the fourth quarter. The Giants finished with six Taylor and Banks combined on 
That made it 24-7 and gave sacks against Kramer and a sack of Kramer, knocking New York a run of 17 points in Wade Wilson. Taylor, dormant him out of the game with a 2 minutes and 25 seconds for New York's last two games, bruised !>huulder. 
Bo concerned about Boilermakers 
ANN ARBOR,  Mich.  (AP)  - decide  the  Big Ten  champi­ always figure if I get nervous,  
See if this sounds familiar. A  onship.  the kids do the same thing  ...  
stoic Bo Schembechler strides  "Our feeling is that we have  An underdog will come in and  
into his weekly press luncheon  to win all of our games to win  let it all out. But it is how we  
Monday,  his  brow  furrowed  the championship outright and  think that will determine if we  
and concern on his face.  go  to  the  Rose  Bowl,"  win this game."  
After  all,  his  team  is  6-1  Schembechler said. "We cannot  Schembechler said he expects  
overall and unbeaten at 4-0 in  afford to lose a game."  the Boilermakers (1-6, 0-4) to  
the  Big Ten.  Michigan's next  No. 5 Michigan beat Indiana  start  freshman  quarterback  
opponent is Purdue, which has  38-10  on  Saturday, giving it  Eric  Hunter,  who  adds  his  
lost  six  straight  despite  a  one more victory in its attempt  scrambling ability to Purdue's  
valiant comeback  attempt  at  to make consecutive Rose Bowl  run-and-shoot offense.  
home  last  Saturday against  appearances this decade.  "I think we  had better pre­ 
Michigan State.  "I look at their film and I get  pare for a scrambling quarter­ 
This  is  no  time  to  relax,  nervous," Schembechler said of  back. If we  don't, it's  a  mis­ 
Schembechler said.  Michigan  the Boilermakers, who scored  take,'  Schembechler  said.  
won't  look  past  Purdue  to  21 points in the final 6 1/2 min­ "Michigan State couldn't catch  
Illinois, a game that likely will  utes against Michigan State. "I  him, he's so quick."  

Harbaugh gets nod against Green Bay 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. (AP)­"The defense was very ag­Coach Mike Ditka said gressive but the offense has Monday he's going to do a long way to go," he said. things "my way" from now "The key to the offense is on. For starters, Jim when I call a slant play we Harbaugh will start at quar­should gain three yards, not terback against Green Bay. lose three yards," Ditka 
"My way," said Ditka after said. "Right now the execu­a 20-10 victory over the Los tion is lacking." Angeles Rams that broke the He conceded that Chicago Bears' three-game Harbaugh, who came in and losing streak. directed three straight 
"And I don't care if there scoring drives, gave the team are hard feelings by any­"a spark-yes, it happened. body." "Jim took the bull by the 
Ditka not only yanked horns, but Mike was the vk­starting quarterback Mike tim of other peoples' errors. Tomczak in favor of That happens." Harbaugh in Sunday's sec­Prodded as to what got the ond quarter with the Bears team going, Ditka said, trailing 3-0, he also took "Nothing got the team go­over the calling of plays ing. The Rams got the team from assistant Greg Landry. going. 
"I don't know if we turned it around," said Ditka, "but "The defense played out­yesterday's win was very standing. The defense played satisfying to this football hard. They are capable. All team. The guys who didn't they needed was to believe in play like they should heard themselves," he said. abo~t it. Ditka wouldn't answer 
"The business of life is to questions directly concerning produce and we have to pro­who would call the plays duce, go out and do it to the from the sidelines, saying best of our ability," he said. "anyone can call the plays." "This team is too good and Indications were that he has too much potential to will continue to do so. sell short. I'm not going to sell this team short." Ditka said "no decision 
Ditka singled out Richard was made" on calling the Dent, Dave Duerson and plays: "When you are cross­Steve McMichael as being ing the street and a car is outstanding on defense and coming, you react." said punter Maury Buford On his television and radio "kept us in the game when shows Sunday night and we weren't doing anything Monday morning, Ditka criti­on offense. cized the fans. 


..... 

page 20 The Observer Tuesday, October 31, 1989 
Bowl 
continued from page 24 

ever, have become more limited. 
While representatives from nine bowls-Citrus, Cotton, Fi­esta, Gator, Hall of Fame, John Hancock, Orange, Peach and Sugar-were on hand Saturday, the list appears to be three, at the very most, if Notre Dame finishes the season at 12-0. 
The Orange and Sugar Bowls have the inside track on the Irish, with the Fiesta '8owTllm­long shot in the race to land the national title contest. 
Here's a sketch of those ma­jor bowls and Notre Dame's chances of playing in each con­test. 
Orange Bowl -This is the game everyone has talked about all year. The winner of the Big Eight has an automatic bid. Nebraska and Colorado, both undefeated, play this Sat­urday in Boulder with the win­ner most likely going to the Or­ange Bowl, barring a collapse. 
Most people thought the win­ncr of the Miami-Notre Dame game would provide the opposi­tion. But with Miami's loss, the Irish will probably get the invi­tation when unofficial bids go out Nov. 17, one week before their clash with the Hurricanes. 
"The Orange Bowl is in a good position," Orange Bowl President Thomas Wood said Saturday at the Notre Dame­Pitt game. "We have the top four teams to look at (before Miami lost). We have no idea how this thing is going to turn out in the end." 
The Orange Bowl has turned out four national champs in this decade-Miami in 1983 and 1987, Oklahoma in 1985 and Clemson in 1981. 
Sugar Bowl -Alabama could come into this game as the un­defeated champions of the Southeast Conference if it beats LSU and Auburn in late-season contests. 
For the Irish to play the Crimson Tide, Nebraska would need to beat Colorado and then lose to Oklahoma. Alabama must then win its remaining games. 
One possible drawback is that Alabama meets Auburn on Dec. 2, two weeks after the unoffi­cial bids go out. If the Irish ac­cept the bid to play in the Sugar Bowl, they could risk not play­ing the highest-ranked oppo­nent. 
Fiesta Bowl -This is the longshot of the group. For Notre Dame to play in Arizona again, a lot of pieees would have to fall into place. 
For starters, Nebraska must ' beat Colorado this Saturday and then lose to Oklahoma 
later this fall. Alabama must then drop one of its remaining games, but before the Dec. 2 contest against Auburn because the Irish may have already se­lected the Sugar Bowl. 
The matehup would put the Irish against Florida State, losers of two early-season games but still possibly one of the top live teams in the coun­try. The Seminoles started slowly, but are finishing with a fervor, evidenced by the win over Miami. Florida State must still play Florida. 
"We'd love to have the Irish back," Fiesta Bowl Board Member Purd Thomas said. "They will want to play the highest-ranked opponent. We would have to lind an opponent. Florida State has illustrated that if you're going to lose, do it early. They're a great team that just got off to a slow start." 
Right now, it looks like the Fiesta Bowl eould get the left­overs from the Orange Bowl, maybe Miami and the loser of Colorado-Nebraska. 
Don't forget about Michigan, losers to Notre Dame in the opening game of the season. If no team is unbeaten after Jan. 1, the Wolverines could sneak into the picture if they can win the Hose Bowl. 
Florida State back where it began 
Florida State is back where it started in The Associated Press' college football poll. 
The Seminoles were sixth in the preseason rankings, but dropped out of the Top 25 after losing their first two games. However, they have won six straight and climbed baek to No. 6 in Monday's poll. 
Saturday's 24-10 victory over Miami moved the Seminoles up three places in the rankings. Miami fell from No. 2 to No. 7 after losing for only the second time in its last 50 regular-sea­son games. 
The victory put Florida State back into eontcntion for a ma­jor bowl bid and probably ended Miami's bid for the na­tional championship. 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame strengthened its grip on the top spot by routing previously un­beaten Pittsburgh 45-7. The Fighting Irish, who have won 20 in a row, received a season­high 58 of 60 first-place votes from a nationwide panel of sports writers and broadcast­ers. 
The other two votes went to second-ranked Colorado, whose 20-3 win over Oklahoma was its first vietory in Norman since 1965. The Buffaloes are ranked just ahead of Nebraska, which also improved to 8-0 by beating Iowa State 49-17. 

The winner of Saturday's Colorado-Nebraska showdown in Boulder will probably play for the national championship in the Orange Bowl. 
Michigan, which beat Indiana 38-10, is ranked fourth while Alabama, which remained un­defeated by edging Penn State 17-16, is fifth. Florida State and Miami are next, followed by Illinois, Southern California and Tennessee. 
Illinois stayed No. 8 after beating Wisconsin 32-9, Southern Cal rose one spot after blanking Stanford 19-0 and Tennessee went from No. 11 to No. 10 following its 45-39 victory over Louisiana State. 
Arkansas, which beat Houston 45-39, leads off the Second Ten. Auburn is 12th, followed by West Virginia, Pittsburgh, Arizona, Penn State, Houston, North Carolina State, Florida and Texas A&M. 
Auburn beat Mississippi State 14-0, West Virginia downed Boston College 44-30, Arizona defeated Pacifie 38-14, N.C. State beat South Carolina 20­10 and Texas A&M routed Rice 45-7. 
Rounding out the Top 25 are Clemson, Texas, Brigham Young, Virginia and Fresno State. Dropping out were South Carolina and Washington State, which lost to Arizona State 44­39. 
Virginia and Fresno State are ranked for the first time this season. Virginia, which im­proved to 7-2 after beating Louisville 16-15, is tied for first in the Atlantic Coast Conferenee with N.C. State. The co-leaders meet Saturday in Raleigh. 
Fresno State extended its winning streak to 15 games Saturday with a 31-17 victory over Nevada-Las Vegas. Fresno has been ranked only twice since the AP poll began in 1936. The Bulldogs were No. 18 after starting the 1942 season with seven straight wins and No. 19 for one week in 1986. 
Brigham Young dropped five places after getting crushed by Hawaii 56-14. 


When you start your career, there's 


nothing like initial success. 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
---® 

Exciting opportunities exist at IBM! 
IBM is recruiting 1989/1990 graduates for open­ings in Programming, Math (W/CS options), MIS, Engineering and Technical Sales (BS/MS). 
Meet with IBM Managers At Our Career Information Day Tuesday, November 7, 1989 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame Room 12:00 noon-5:00pm 

There is no formal presentation, so feel free to stop by anytime during the event. Please bring 4 copies of your data sheet/resume and transcript, if avail­able. Dress is casual. 
An equal opportunity employer 
-

~---------~-------~-----­
Tunnel 
continued from page 24 
"I apologize to Southern Cal because it's our job to avoid that. I promise that will never ever happen again as long as I am the coach. If that happens ever again, I will not coach again. That's how strongly I feel about this." 
In the eyes of the national press, and thus in the eyes of the nation, the Irish were the villains here. Forget about USC's Golden Boy, Todd Marinovich's taunting and finger-pointing at the Notre Dame defense, when the Trojans were winning. 
Forget about the Trojans' singing of the Notre Dame fight song at halftime, when the Trojans were winning. Forget about the Trojans whining about the Irish team and Notre Dame security, after they'd lost the game. And forget the fact that the Notre Dame players weren't the only ones out there fighting. 
Notre Dame accepted responsibility and was trashed for it. The Trojans came away wearing halos, accusing the Irish team of inciting the brawl. It takes two to tango, fellas. 
The bashing wasn't only in Sports Illustrated. From Mal­colm Moran's column in the New York Times, Oct. 25: 
"The fact that should alarm those in the administration building beneath the Golden Dome is that in spite of years of effort to achieve its exemplary graduation rate of athletes, the football program has created the appearance of being too much like Those Places where the only thing wrong with a 19-game winning streak is that it hasn't reached 
20." 

Nothing has changed at 
The Observer 

Notre Dame, except the team is tougher. It's had more to overcome, and more to live up to. 
Notre Dame shouldn't be turned into the scourge of the college football world because of emotions running high before a big game. When beating you is the top priority of every team you face, emotion is a plus, not a minus. 
Of course, being a Notre Dame student, my heart lies with the Irish. I'll admit, they were in the middle of it, and it has happened before. But enough is enough. Notre Dame won the game. It was a good, clean game, another classic in a series where classics are ex­pected. 
Tunnel vision shouldn't affect the the outlook on the game. Don't let the pregame festivities outshine the game itself. 

Notre Dame started the Watters, who gained 55 yards "We just caught the right Rice took it in himself from
usc 
second half by capitalizing on a on 11 carries. "Once we got defense where their corner­15 yards out on the next play to continued from page 24 break in USC's opening series. back to basics, we started to backs were up and their safety give Notre Dame the winning On a third-and-seven situation, run physical and did what we was on the other side of the points. 
"We did a great job in the Marinovich connected with tight had to do." play. We were lucky and USC proceeded to drive 56 first half, but Notre Dame end Scott Galbraith, who ap­USC had two drives in the guessed right." yards and advanced inside the came out to play in the second peared to have the first down third quarter, one set up when Johnson's luck changed on Irish 10, but D'Juan Francisco half with more determination," with room to spare. Mark Carrier intercepted a Rice Notre Dame's next series. The batted away a fourth-down said USC defensive end Junior The officials ruled that the pass, but the Trojans failed to normally surehanded South pass with 1 :40 left . Seau. "Tony Rice was able to Trojans were short of the first score. The first USC drive Bend product lost a fumble on make the big plays for Notre down, so USC was forced to stalled at the Irish 44, and the the Irish 33-yard line. USC's "Notre Dame dropped a lot of Dame when they needed them." punt from their own 20-yard other ended at the Notre Dame Brian Tuliau recovered it with people back, but I thought my
The Irish defense, while line. Notre Dame took the ball eight-yard line when Donn 10:24 left in the game. 
man was open in the end zone," letting freshman sensation at midfield and scored eight Grimm tipped a Marinovich From there, Marinovich and said Marinovich, who had a 
Todd Marinovich and the plays (all rushes) later on a pass that Todd Lyght caught in flanker John Jackson, the duo school-record 33 completionsTrojan offense move up and two-yard Ricky Watters carry. the end zone for an in­that had terrorized the Irish 
but threw four interceptions. "I down the field, held USC to That cut USC's lead to 17-14. terception. 
defense all night, continued didn't see the end of the play 
seven points in the second half. Notre Dame got 197 of its After the Lyght interception, their assault. 
because I was flat on my back. 
The Irish kept USC from 266 rushing yards in the second the Irish drove 80 yards on Marinovich hit Jackson for a "During the entire game, we reaching the end zone on three half. The Irish rushed for four eight plays, with Anthony 23-yard gain on the first play 
wanted to run a controlled consecutive plays from the touchdowns against a vaunted Johnson bursting 35 yards on a of the drive, and later threw to passing game. And when we gotNotre Dame seven-yard line in Trojan defense that had not third-and-one play to give a wide-open Gary Wellman for the ball, I didn't think they
the last two minutes. allowed a rushing touchdown Notre Dame its first lead of the the touchdown. The score put could stop us." 
"It was a very intense game; I all season. night. USC back ahead 24-21 with Marinovich passed for 333 think everyone watching was "We were running well in the "It was just an off tackle play 9:01 to play. yards, and Jackson's 13 entertained," said USC coach first half, but we got some designed to get the first down," That's where Rice took over. 
catches set another school 
Larry Smith. "It was college penalties that forced us into said the senior tri-captain, who After six consecutive running record. 
football at its best." passing situations," said had 13 rushes for 78 yards. plays, the Heisman Trophy The Marinovich-led USC candidate thl'ew a perfect toss offense wasted no time getting to Raghib Ismail on the right started. A 12-yard pass to sideline for a 40-yard gain. Larry Wallace and a 15-yard
Ismail's fumbles on a kickoff toss to Jackson sandwiched a return and punt return had led Tony Rice seven-yard run and to two USC's two first-half gave the Trojans a 14-7 lead touchdowns. after a quarter. 

A Corporation--­------for the '90s 
You're going to be the professional of the '90s, and you're going to be the best in your field. 
Connect with a corporation that's as good as you are --the best in its industry. 
Household International. 
.... Preservation HallJazz Band of New Orleans 
Campus interviews Nov. 19, 1989. 
Tuesday, October 31 8:00 p.m. Washington Hall 
See the Placement Office for details. 
Reserved Seats $10 Senior Citizens $8 Students $5 
Tickets available in advance at LaFortune Student 
Center Box Office 239-7442


HOUSEHOLD INTERNATIONAL 
MasterCard and Vr.sa accepted 

... 

--------------~------------­
"If we get that kind of "It was getting to the point performance each week from when it became a business
Pitt Perles talks about win,
the line we will do very well," atmosphere," said Aim. "Today.
continued from page 24 said Grunhard. "We don't get we tried to have fun on the the hype but the guys across field. As far as knocking the 


not Thompson record
Dame. I said a long time ago from us know who won the ball down. I settle for batting it 
Notre Dame and Miami are on a diiTercnt plain." 
Whatever plain Notre Dame is on. they certainly got there on the ground. The Irish ran. And then ran some more. In fact. lloltz selected 57 running plays to a staggeringly low nine passes to extend Division l's longest winning streak to 20 games, one shy of the Notre Dame record of 21 games. The Irish marched for 310 yards against a Panther defense that was ranked tenth in running defense, allowing a mere 92 yards per game. Tony Hice went a dismal 1-of-7 passing on the day. not completing a pass until the six minute mark of the second quarter. 
"We can't continue to play unless we start to throw the ball," said lloltz. "We know we have to throw the ball and not be one-dimensional." 
Hunning has been the mainstay of the Irish oiTense all season. and it may not have to change in the eyes of Tim Grunhard, who drove his Pitt defender into the Notre Dame band so that he cut his arm on a tuba. 
battle." 

Perhaps what allowed the Irish to shine in their matchup against their third Top 10 op­ponent of the season was the bend-but-not-break Irish defensive squad. The "Evil Eleven" held the 16th-rated collegiate offense to 302 net yards. More impressive was the fad that Irish stymied Panther redshirt freshman quarterback Alex Van Pelt, who was eighth in passing efliciency at 146.8 entering the game, to a 16-33 (.480) performance for 170 yards. The Irish defense pinned Pitt in the end zone with 6:07 left in the first quarter and recorded their first safPtv of the season when Van Pelt lost his footing. 
The Irish defensive line turned in an effective pass rush, utilizing an increased number of stunts and blitzes to disrupt Van Pelt and the entire Panther offense. Notre Dame did not record any sacks, but had five tackles for loss totaling 26 yards. The defense also batted down five passes, three by defensive tackle Jeff Aim. 
down. I'm not looking to score." 
One defensive player who was looking to score and did was free safety Pat Terrell. With 
3:05 IPt in the second quarter. Tm·rell stepped in front of Pitt split end Henry Tuten and picked off Van Pelt's throw. Terrell raced up the right side to the thirty-yard line, wherP he cut across field and into the left corner of the endzone. For Terrell. it was the fifth interception of the season and his second time he has returned one for a touchdown. 

"It felt like a punt return. I got some great blocks from the entire defense, and guys were just flying all over the place and I just took it to the house," said Terrell. "We are always looking for the big play when we get in certain situations." 
The Irish secondary, which has been the recipient of much of the recent criticism of the Irish defense, picked off three passes for the fourth time in the last five games. 


Rams experiencing tough times 
ANAIIEIM. Calif. (AP) -John Hobinson says he is experienc­ing an interesting time for a coach. 
"Horrible but interesting. 
"If I knew what to do, I'd al­ready have done it," he added, pondering how to halt the Los Angeles Hams' three-game los­ing streak and transform them back into the winners they were through the first five weeks of the season. 
When the Hams were sailing along with a perfect record. Hobinson warned it wouldn't last. that all teams arn doomed to slump at times, and he pre­dicted "We'll stink up the joint some Sundays." 
After starting 5-0, the Hams lost at Buffalo 23-20 on Oct. 16, then did in fact stink up the joint in a 40-21 loss to New Orleans the following Sunday. That was followed with a 20-10 loss to the Bears -themselves snapping a mysterious three­game losing streak -last Sunday. 
Hobinson. speaking Monday at his wePkly meeting with re­porters, said the Hams simply must light through the adver­sity, and that no drastic changes are called for. 
"We clearly have some prob­lems; wn don't have that confi­dence and flair we had earlier," Hobinson said. "The precision we pl~ycd with earlier just isn't there. 

Hellecting on the loss to the Bears, Hobinson said, "The things that seem to make a dif­ference, we just didn't do .... We made 130 plays OK, but the 10 important plays, we didn't." 
The most obvious change be­tween the first live games and the last three arc a lack of con­sistency on offense, particularly in the passing game. 
Jim Everett, near the top of the NFL passing ratings after live games with a 104.3 rating, had a poor 61.3 rating in the three losses. 
The three teams that have beaten the Rams seemed to have put considerably more pressure on Everett, sacking 
him 10 times compared to eight in the opening live games. 
Hobinson, however, said he thought the pass protection was adequate, but that Everett -and the rest of the team ­was just a littJ,. out of synch. 
Again talking about the Chicago game, Hobinson said, "I don't think the pass rush was a factor. " 

HAf>f>V 

2(0)~~ 8~lPrrHlDAV~ ulERU~V~ 
MIKE AND MARTY 

STUDENT SMOKERS Get a "Fresh Start" 
... 
The American Cancer Society in cooperation with University Health Services will offer "Fresh Start" a four session smoking cessation program: 
DATES: November 7,9,14 &16 
TIME: 7:00pm-8:15pm LOCATION: Room 300 Health Services Bldg. ENROLLMENT: call University Health Services 
(239-7497) by Monday, November 6th 

It's time to "Leave the Pack Behind" 
EAST lANSING. Mieh. (AP) ­Indiana running back Anthony Thompson is welcome to break the national touchdown record against Miehigan State, just as long as his team loses, Coach George Perles said Monday. 
"I don't worry about records. All we want to do is play them as hard as we can." Perles said. "We'll do everything we can and makP all our decisions based on trying to win the football game. 
"As far as records go, you can get yourself into a lot of problems when you worry about things other than win­ning the football game. Hecords will take care of themselves." 
Make no mistake, the sturdy Michigan State defense will work to keep Thompson out of the end zone, which it has done successfully over the past two years. 
Thompson has gotten only one of his 59 career touch­downs against the Spartans, back in 1986. when he picked up 126 yards on 35 carries. In 1987, he gained 23 yards on 10 carries and got 34 yards on nine rushes last year. 
The key, Perles said, is to get a lead against the Hoosiers. 
"Over the last two years, he hasn't hurt us that bad, be­cause we got ahead. We scored and we controlled the ball. We ran the ball very well and we got a lot of yardage," he said. 
"So he wasn't on the field 
that much and we got a good 
lead where it was diflicult for them to do the thing that he does best. and that's pound the ball." 
Michigan State, 3-4 overall and 2-2 in the Big Ten, travels to Bloomington. Ind., this week to take on the Hoosiers. 4-3 and 2-2. The game will b1~ shown nationally by ESPN, the cable television sports network. 
The Spartans snapped a two­game losing streak last Saturday with a 28-21 squeaker over Purdue that wasn't decided until the final play, while the lloosiers were pounded 34-10 by Michigan. 
Thompson scored in the Michigan game to tie the touchdown record of 59 held by Pitt's Tony Dorsett and Army's Glenn Davis. 
Michigan State punter Josh Butland could be sidelined for this week's game with a sore foot. Somebody stepped on his foot while he was trying to scramble for a first down after a bad snap against Purdue, Perles said, adding that Butland also hurt his back dur­ing the pre-game warmups. 
Place-kicker John Langeloh and split end James Bradley. who punted during his junior college career, will practice at punting this week. 
Meanwhile, No. 1 backup quarterback John Gieselman is expected to be out for the rest of the season with a knee injury he suiTered in the fourth quar­ter of the Purdue game, Perles said. 



NATIONAL TOURING COMPANY 

Past Second City Cast Members 
Dan Akroyd, Alan Arkin. Jim Belushi. John Belushl. Shelley Berman, Peter Boyle. John Candy. Catherine O"Hara, Severn Darden, Julia Louis-Dreyfus. Joe Flaherty, Mary Gross. Barbara Harris. Valerie Harper. Tim Kazurinsky. 
Robert Klein. Linda Lavin, Eugene Levy. Shelley Long, Andrea Martin. 
Elaine May, Ann Meara, Rick Moranis. Bill Murray. Mike Nichols. Gilda Radner. Harold Ramis. Joan R1vers. Dav1d Steinberg. Martin Short. Jerry Stiller. Betty Thomas. Dave Thomas. George Wendt. Fred Willard 
Tickets go on sale Wed., November 1 at LaFortune Information Desk, Noon-S p.m. Tickets remain on sale at Info Desk thru November 9th or until sold out. (Any remaining tickets will be sold at the door.) Price: $5 Students $7 Non-students 
... 

-------l 
l 
Tuesday, October 31, 1989 
The Observer page 23 
1 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
WILBUR AND WENDEL 
ACROSS 26 Withered 54 Excites 29 G.l. duds s8~pie
1 Show great pleasure 31 Noxious fly 62 Mine, in Metz 
s Fly into pi~ces 36 A Gardner 63 Scold 
10 Two together 37 City on the 66 ~up (settled) Mohawk
14 Not in a good 67 African ruminant way 
39 Move like a 

68 Olive genus 15 A daughter of worm 69 One annoyingly 
Zeus 40 Expedite 
proper 16 Lotion potion 
43 Word to "kind 

70 Spirit; demon friends"17 Mind the store 71 Straight, to a44 Tenth part 19 Jazzman's 
45 J. Lincoln's
repeated 

melodic phrase 
"Cap'n-" 
46 Sarasota or Saratoga 
20 Guard against 

21 Daily dozen, e.g. 
48 Upsilon follower 
23 Maurice 
49 Calvados port 

Chevalier's theme song so Faux­25 Jack of "Flower 52 Sundance Kid's Drum Song" film girl 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
18 Pod beginner -:":+:::-t-:--E-1 22 Gat or rod 24 Dostoyevsky subject 
BILL WATIERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 



JAY HOSLER 
"Kids! Kids! .•. The slugs are back!" 

"1Utts ~() on. salt 
\(eAV\ISdl).~ 





J(ov~ \, \'IS'i 

bartender 
DOWN 

1 Type of lettuce 
2 General Robert 
3 "Punning is-·­
species of wit": 
N. Webster 

4"-lsAsher Lev": Potok 
s Big beast 6 Actress Mary of "Sons and Lovers" 
26 Leyte's neighbor 38 "-Ballet," "A 54 Mud dauber 
7 Rule, in India 
Chorus Line" 
27 Skirt 55 Hebrew 
8 Puts away song 
measure
28 Ouzos' kin 

9 Besides 41 Fair-hiring prog. 
56 Notation on a 
30 Financial

10 Cinchona, e.g. 42 Tail's partner ticket 
11Stew 
12 Soybean product certificate 

47 Edible wrasse 
57 Kind of crab 32 Bobble fish 
59 George Bush's 33~powder alma mater 
49 Knitter's (flee) instruction 
60 On the Red 

51 "Thus­
34 Turned the air 61 Three-handed

Zarathustra"
blue card game 53 Chinese

35 Pixieish 64 Sunflower St.
philosophical 37 Appropriates ideal 65 Cure lead-in 
Touring CompMy 
''Subtly &Superbly funny!'' 
-NEW YORK POST 
~"TUDENT UNION BOARD
-• 





Sports 
Tuesday, October 31, 1989
~ge 24 

Notre Dame stays unbeaten with two wins 
Big comeback drowns hopes of Trojan upset By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 

For all the excitement Notre Dame and Southern California created on the field in a 28-24 Irish victory, all the talk afterward con­cerned two incidents in the tunnel leading to the locker rooms. 
The tryst everybody will remember came be­fore the Oct. 21 contest, when a fight ensued as Southern California players tried to enter the tunnel as the Irish were running punting drills in the end zone. The episode had Irish coach Lou Holtz saying he would quit if such an event occurred again. 
"I sincerely apologize to Southern Cal," said Holtz. "I promise this will never happen again 
at Notre Dame regardless of who was at fault." 
But the Trojans also made a big mistake in that fateful Notre Dame Stadium tunnel, while both teams were exiting the field at halftime. And that error might have been what propelled the Irish to their seventh consecutive victory over Southern Cal. 
With a 17-7 halftime lead over the nation's top-ranked team, the Trojans felt they had cause for singing. So the taunting Southern Cal players appropriately broke into a rendition of the Notre Dame Vietory March. 
"They were taunting us, and that woke up a sleeping giant," said offensive guard Tim Grunhard. 
Tony Rice and the Notre Dame defense were the major figures to break out of their slum­ber. Hice compiled 71 of his 99 rushing yards in the second half and scored the winning touchdown on a twisting, diving 15-yard keept~r with 5:18 to play. 
see USC I page 21 
Putting tunnel incident in a proper perspective 
The Notre Dame football team ac­cepted the responsibility for the pregame activities in, and around, the tunm1l before the Irish-Southern Cal game Oct. 21. 
Unfortunately, the Irish were sad­dled with the blame-a blame that unnneessarily overshadowed Notre Dame's come-from-behind victory and was blown completely out of proportion in its relation to the game. 
Notre Dame bashing has become a sport unto itself, and a certain amount of that is to be expected. After all, when you can't criticize a team for their on-field performance, you have to look for something else to exploit. 
Some nxcerpts from Douglas S. Looney's article from Sports Illustrated, Oct. 30: 
· "After completing their pregame warm ups, the Trojans discovered that they would have to run a Notre Dame gantlet to enter the tunnel leading to both teams' locker rooms. Several Trojans brushed shoulder pads with their Irish counterparts, who had gone out of their way to block the path to the tunnel ... Unpleasantries were exchanged, and about 20 Southern Cal players, surrounded by a sea of blue and gold. had to brawl their way free. " 
·1\s for Notre Dame, it survived, though without much style and without much class. Now Holtz has to get the Irish cranked up again this week for a home game against Pitt. Let's hope that while he's doing it, he also teaches his children some tunnel etiquette." 
This actual description of the melee is unprovable. No one is telling what really happened, if, in fact, anyone really knows. 
Looney says Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz "admitted that the episode was the fault of his players." 
Holtz didn't find fault or assign blame. Holtz took re­sponsibility, which is not the same thing. Holtz took re­sponsibility on Notre Dame's behalf; after all, it was Notre Dame Stadium. The host won't blame his guest for a fight at the party.
.. "I am deeply disturbed and distressed by the incidents 
The Observer 1 Man Min1no 

Notre Dame quarterback Tony Rice tries to avoid USC defenders after keeping on the quarterback option. 
that happened before the ballgame," Holtz said. "I have to believe that that should have been avoided by Notre Dame. No matter what actually happened, that was to be avoided at all costs. 
see TUNNEL I page 21 The Notre Dame defense puts the pressure on USC quarterback Todd Marinovich during the 28-24 victory by the Irish. 


Bowl picture clears up following Miami defeat 
By GREG GUFFEY with big games left at Penn Assistant Sports Editor State and Miami. At this time last year, Notre 
After Notre Dame defeated Dame had already defeated Mi­Pittsburgh by a 45-7 count Sat­ami 31-30 and was on its way urday to raise its record to 8-0, to a first-ever appearance in the bowl picture was still mud­the Fiesta Bowl, barring a late­dled, with five unbeaten teams season collapse. The Irish in contention for the mythical didn't collapse and pounded 
national title. West Virginia for the national 
About three hours later, championship. Florida State helped change With other independents that. falling from the national cham­
pionship picture this season, 
The Seminoles defeated the Notre Dame can control its previously-undefeated Hurri­own fate and make its own canes Saturday night in Talla­choices. Those choices, how­hassee. That win left the fate of the Irish in their own hands see BOWL I page 20 
Irish boost mark to 8-0 
afterweekofadveffii~ 
By BOB MITCHELL 
Sports Writer 
After a week full of battling perhaps their toughest opponent of the season-the media­the top-ranked Fighting Irish were just glad to be playing football again. And after a week of trying to preserve a gentleman-like image, the Irish let out all their frustrations on the sev­enth-ranked Pittsburgh Panthers. 
Simply put, the Panthers were in the wrong place at the wrong time. The Irish put forth their finest complete game to date and trounced the Panthers 45-7 at Notre Dame Stadium in front of the usual sellout crowd of 59,075. 
"Pitt is a fine football team," said Holtz, holding to form. "This is the first time we played a complete game as a complete team. I thought our football team played well and they played together. It was just one of our days. Pitt had an extra week to get ready for us, but we did have an advantage. The week we had seemed like a good month." 
Barring the first six minutes of the game when the Panthers, utilizing a no-huddle of­fense, marched 6S yards to draw first blood in this battle, Notre Dame dominated. As far as Pittsburgh is concerned, their highlight 111m might as well end after the first drive. It was all Irish after that. The game was so one-sided that Panther coach Mike Gottfried suggested that his team totally reevaluate itself. 
"Notre Dame just whipped us in every area," said a dejected Gottfried, who looked liked he had been to hell and back again by this time. "We unravelled and we played inconsistent. We made so many mistakes. We self-destructed. I don't want to take anything away from Notre 
see PITT/ page 22 
Split NO hockey team now 1·1, page 16 
Trojans USC stops baseball squad, page 18 
Champs Men runners win MCC title, page 17 







