
Wishy-washy 
Snow today, changing to rain this afternoon then back to snow by evening. High in the mid 30s. A 70 percent chance 
IACCENT: BCAF Fashion Show 
IVIEWPOINT: Applying the Golden Rule 
of snow at night. Low 20. 



VOL. XXII, NO. 103 

the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Woman assaulted on SMC campus 
Observer Staff Report 
The St. Joseph's County Sheriff's Office is investigating an assault which occurred on Saint Mary's campus Friday, according to Officer Fedder of the sheriff's office. 
A 31-year-old Mishawaka wo­man was jumped from behind as she jogged on the nature trail northwest of campus at approximately 5:45 p.m. Friday, according to Brett McLaughlin, public informa­tion officer at Saint Mary's. 
"She was able to scream and get away," said McLaughlin. She fled to her car which was parked near the Angela Ath­letic Facility. 
According to McLaughlin, the woman was only able to provide a vague description of her attacker. 
The woman was treated for facial abrasions at Memorial Hospital. Hospital officials notified the sheriff's depart­ment of the attack. 
Saint Mary's Security was in turn notified by the sheriff's de­partment and conducted an in­vestigation of the incident. 
The sheriff's department has filed a battery report, said Fed­der. 
"The Security department will make periodic checks of the area," said McLaughlin. Saint Mary's officials also planned to notify the student body today. 
No details concerning the at­tacker were available. 

The Observer I E.G. Bailey
Sunday spiker 
Mike Miller unleashes a successful spike as teammate Pedro Nemal­ceff looks on in a friendly game of quad volleyball. 
MONDAY, MARCH 20, 1989 

Union: Pan Am might join strike 
Associated Press 
MIAMI-A Teamsters official threatened on Saturday to ex­pand the Eastern Airlines strike to rival Pan American, while union leaders discussed ways for employees to buy both carriers in "the opportunity of a lifetime." 
Eastern employees rallied in Washington, New Jersey and New York, where Governor Mario Cuomo threw his support behind the workers and chal­lenged President Bush to inter-
See PAN AM, page 4 



Revolutionaries disrupt voting in El Salvador 
Associated Press 
SAN SALVADOR, El Sal­vador -Salvadorans voted for a new president Sunday as left­ist revolutionaries opposed to the election attacked military posts and army troops coun­tered with rockets and rifle fire. 
At least five guerrillas and two soldiers were killed in fighting in nine provincial towns, according to military of­ficials and witnesses. Two jour­nalists and a Dutch television cameraman also were re­ported killed. 
Early voter turnout ap­peared diminished by the com­bat and a rebel-imposed transport ban. But Roman Catholic churches were crowded with Palm Sunday worshipers, at least some of whom planned to vote later. By midday, there were long lines at the downtown polling sta­tions. 
Turnout was light in smaller towns. 
"With these problems, it's better to stay home," said Jose Carlos Ortiz, 23. He spoke in front of his home in the capital as guerrillas retreated from an assault on a military post three blocks away. 
Sporadic rifle fire echoed from the slope of the Guazapa volcano north of the capital, a guerrilla stronghold, as troops from the army's elite Bracamonte battalion pursued the insurgents. Two air force helicopters raced toward the volcano and fired rockets into the mountainside. 
Guerrillas of the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front are waging a 9-year-old war against the U.S-backed government. 


The Observer I E.G. Bailey

Just do it. 
Chris Walls performs a spread eagle in his Nikes No one can say that he did not try hard enough. in an admirable attempt to catch an elusive frisbee. 
Salvadorans voted to elect a president from among seven candidates. Fidel Chavez Mena of the incumbent Christian Democratic Party and Alfredo Cristiani of the rightist Nationalist Republican Al­liance, or Arena led the field in polls. But neither was likely to receive the more than 50 per­cent required to avoid a runoff next month. 
Cristiani, favored to become the country's next president, pledged free-market policies and reduced state intervention in the economy. His party promised to step up the war if the guerrillas do not agree to lay down their arms. 
Surrounded by a mob of sup­porters, Cristiani voted Sunday morning on the capital's central Roosevelt Avenue. 
"I hope the United States realizes that (Salvadorans) want democracy, with this ef­fort they're making to vote. We don't want any more bombs," he said. 
President Jose Napoleon Duarte's five-year term ends June 1. Duarte, barred by law from running for re-election, is Washington's staunchest ally in the Western Hemisphere. 

$125,000 H-P donation to upgrade engineering lab 
By MICHAEL WELLS 
Staff Re}:lorter 

A gift valued at $125,000 from Hewlett-Packard is making possible the upgrad­ing of the Engineering com­puter lab, said Eugene Henry of the Department of Electrical Engineering. 
According to Henry, the donation consists of 17 H-P Vectra computers, second­ary disk drives, 2 laser print­ers and a plotter. Henry said the computers will eventu­ally replace the IBM PC-ATs which the lab has now. 
The prime mainframe with 70 terminals that the College of Engineering cur­rently uses will not be af­fected by the new computers, said Henry, al­though he indicated that this system may also be replaced at some future date. 
Henry, who wrote the pro­posal to Hewlett-Packard describing the University's need and planned uses for the equipment, said the en­tire shipment was expected several weeks ago, but that only the laser printers and the plotter have arrived so far. He said the computers are expected soon. 
Each of the new com­puters will come with a 40 megabyte hard-drive and the new Intel 386 processor. "They are similar to the IBM PS-2," said Henry, add­ing "the 386 is a 32 bit pro­cessor, which makes them faster, and allows the com­puters to support more memory." 
According to Henry, the computers are to be used by 
See GIFT, page 3 page 2 The Observer Monday, March 20, 1989 



_I,I#JI•ifi•iiiJ~I,_ 
Applications for Student Government cabinet positions will be available to all students on Tuesday April 28 in the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit ali sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 



GWENDOLYN BROOKS 
PRESENTS A READING 
AT SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE MARCH 22 7:30pm O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM FREE ADMISSION EVERYONE WELCOME 
[§])[g!F,9fillilrb DEXT WEEK IDBRCH 28-30 
CRRRDLL RUDITDRIUm  C"-J.D  
S1, 9 & 11 pm smc.  STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD .J .l. .1. I ..r  
SA IRT MARY ·s COLLEGE  

IN BRIEF 
AlanMat~eny'smothertriedtotalkherson,suspected 
of murder m the bludgeoning death of his ex-wife out of ~rivi~g to ~ishawa~a, sa~d Martha Matheny of Granger m an mterview published m the South Bend Tribune. Mrs. Matheney picked up her son in Indianapolis and allowed h~m to drive her car to Northern Indiana although his eight-hour pass from prison restricted him to go to In­dianapolis to meet with a lawyer. "I never thought he ~ould do anything like this. I'd give anything in the world if I hadn't gone down there" to Indianapolis, she told the newspaper. Matheney, 38, faces burglary and capital mur­der charges in the March 4 slaying of Lisa Bianco, 29. Now being held at the Indiana State Prison, Matheney was serving an eight-year sentence for charges stemming !rom wife be~ting. "Every time we passed a sign, I said, 
Alan, you missed the sign for Indianapolis.' All the way up. there, I tried to talk him out of it," Mrs. Matheney said. Mrs. Matheney said she has moved in with a relative after threats were made against her and her family fol­lowing Bianco's slaying. "It really doesn't matter. As long as they leave the rest of the family alone, they can do whatever they want to me," she said. "I don't feel much like living anymore." -Associated Press 

OF INTEREST 
Morrissey Manor Forum will be holding an informal panel discussion on the subject of student attitudes towards ethnic minorities on campus. The discussion begins at 7 
p.m. today in the Morrissey lobby. -The Observer 
ISO application deadline for elections is March 30. Any ISO members who wish to run for office must sign up by the end of the month. Call Peter at 283-1530 for more information. -The Observer 
Father Michael Himes will speak on the moral argument against the death penalty at Amnesty Interna­tional's meeting today at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. An informal video will be shown and letters to Indiana congressmen will be written. All are welcome to attend. -The Observer 
Senior class service project for those interested in helping serve dinner at the Shelter for the Homeless is on Monday M~rch 27 or Friday March 31 from 4-7 p.m. Interested semors should contact the Senior Class office by Thursday March 23. -The Observer 
Children of Adult Alcoholics meet tonight at 7 
p.m. upstairs in the Center for Social Concerns. All are welcome. -The Observer 
Chr.istmasi~ ~prildormcommissionersandcommunity service commissiOners must meet today and tomorrow at 
4:30 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. For more information contact Mary Sue at 283-4414 or the CSC. -The Observer 
Freshman Terry Coyne won the speaker of the month award from the varsity speech and debate team. -The Observer 

Notre Dame needn't be Harvard of the Midwest 
We lost to Georgetown--surprise, surprise. 

But, we did make a decent show of it--at least until the last nine or so minutes. We were ac­tually leading at several points in the game. 
It seems that every time we have a good thing going, either we lose momentum, or our strat­egy just falls apart. 
I wonder if this is also the case when the University talks about making Notre Dame a more "competitive" school: able to compete with the big boys of academia, i.e. the ivies. We already have a top-notch student body, fac­ulty, and facilities. We even surpass other ivy institutions in some respects, such as having more approachable faculty, a more "family"­oriented atmosphere, and a championship ath­letic program to boot. 
So why do we need to be more like them? 

Many claim that one of our greatest obstacles to becoming a top-ranked university is our lack of faculty-conducted research projects. M­terall, doing research undoubtedly does bring prestige to a university, not to mention grants. And the more prestigious we become, the more grants we receive, and the more and better professors we attract. And shouldn't that be the goal of any university--to attract the best fac­ulty they can, so that the students can receive the best education possible? 
Of course this is true, and a strong faculty is essential to the program of any solid institution. Notre Dame seems to be headed in the right direction. 
However, we might not be going about it in the right way. Just as Digger has the core ma­terials needed for the making of a championship team, so we have the raw materials needed for the making of a first-rate university. All we have to do is focus our energy, so that we can actually accomplish our goals. Sure it's impor­tant that the University push for more extensive research, but that should only be the beginning. 
It's subtle differences that distinguish one university from another, which is why it is time for Notre Dame to take the next step on the road to improvement, by attacking the count­less little barriers that still remain to our be­coming a "competitive" university. 
First among the needed improvements is to have some places on campus that are open 24 hours. I'm not just talking about something like the Night Oak, which was destined to failure because of the University's unwillingness to lose a couple of dollars long enough to give the concept a fighting chance. 
The library should be open 24 hours. I think we are the only major school in the country with a library that closes before midnight. I don't know all that many people who would choose to remain at the library until6 a.m. on a regular basis, but I know that there have been a couple of times in my Notre Dame career where I really needed to, and couldn't. And my 
Christine Walsh 
Assistant News Editor 
work obviously told the tale. At any rate the option should be open to students. ' 
We also need LaFortune to be open 24 hours. This will be especially necessary when the Mac lab becomes a 24-hour facility. If we will have to hire security to guard the basement, where the lab is, then why not leave the entire building accessible 24 hours, and patrol all three floors? Would the additional costs be that much greater? By having LaFortune open 24 hours, the student body would have a post-parietals place to meet, and organizations such as The Observer, student government, and Scholastic would be able to work more efficiently with constant access to their offices. 
The Honor Code is another concept that can be improved. As it stands, the code is an ex­ample of a good idea that went astray. Univer­sities such as University of Virginia and Rice prove that it can work, and can only improve the overall academic atmosphere of a univer­sity, by promoting ethical conduct and better student-faculty relations. But, the code must be student-initiated, and not University-enforced. What we have at Notre Dame is not an honor code, but a quasi-secret police system. There must be a better way. 
. These are just a few comments and sugges­tions. And what we're really doing is just im­proving ;m ~lready very good thing. But there are lots of good universities out there. No we don't have to be Princeton West. We just have to be excellent at whatever course we do finally decide to take. 
Design Editor .. . ..... Mark McLaughlin Accent Editor ..... . .... Robyn Simmons Design Assistant ... Mark McLaughlin Accent Copy Editor ......... Paige Smoron Typesetters ............... ....... Andy Schlidt Accent Designer ..... ... Mark McLaughlin .............................................. Tim Kiefer Typists... .. ...... .. . . Will Zamer News Editor.... .. ...... Greg Lucas ........................................ Diana Bradley Copy Editor.. .. Sara Voigt ND Day Editors .................. Katie Gugle Sports Copy Editor..... .. Greg Guffey .................................... Jennifer Richards Viewpoint Layout .............. Kerri Owens SMC Day Editor .......... Rozel Gatmaitan 
De Ollllnw (USPS 599 2...000) is published Monday throuah Friday agept duriq exam IUid vacation periods. De Ollllnw is published by the students of tbe Univcnity of Notre DuDe and Saint Mary's Collqc. Sublc:riptions may be purcbu­ed for S40 per year ($25 per sematcr) by writina De o..ner. P.O. Box Q, Notre oa-. ladiua 465.56. 
De ~is a member of De AlledaiMI rn.. All reproduction riabts are raerved. 
Monday, March 20, 1989 The Observer page 3 

Archbishop: Attempt to inform Church of American issues 
By LAURA DOWNS Staff Reporter 
American Catholics, in a meeting with Pope John Paul II, urged Church officials in Rome to realize that they are 
often  misinformed  about  
American  issues,  said  Arch­ 
bishop  Weakland  of  Mil­ 

waukee, who attended the meeting. 
The conference, held in Rome from March 8-11, was at­tended by Pope John Paul II, the heads of the curial offices in Rome, and 35 Archbishops of the United States. There were 10 themes for discussion, the main one being Evangelism 
and  American  Culture,  said  
Weakland.  
Other issues included  mar­ 

riage annulments, the role of bishops, and the place for wo­men in the Church. "Feminism in the U.S. came up quite often under many themes as being part of the U.S. culture today," said Weakland, who spoke on campus last week about the Church and South America. 
The point of the conference was to open up discussion and exchange opinions on 10 Church themes. He said, "Al­though no conclusions were reached, I believe the confer­ence was an overall success be­cause the Europeans got a good view of the complexity of issues in the U.S." 
Father Richard McBrien of the theology department said that he followed the conference carefully. "The most signifi­cant result was that certain Curial officials were so ex­treme in their views and showed such ignorance of the way things are done in the U.S. 
that they seemed to disturb even conservative American bishops," said McBrien. 
McBrien said that this was a positive outcome because con­servative bishops may become more realistic about future Vatican directives since they now realize that their informa­tion is often coming from misinformed officials. 
Both Weakland and McBrien said that the format of the con­ference made it somewhat dif­ficult to get a discussion going since so many people were present. Weakland said that 20 papers were delivered but that overall preparation for the con­ference was inadequate for any ultimate decision making. 
"The greatest point of ten­sion," he said, "was over the annulment process." 
Archbishop Weakland char­acterized the conference as an important step towards a bet­ter understanding between European and American Church officials, and was opti­mistic that ''it will probably serve to open up dialogues of this sort in the future." 


Gun makers urged to cease sale of semiautomatic rifles 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Gun manufacturers should follow the example of Colt Industries Inc. and stop nonmilitary sales of semiautomatic assault rifles, the head of the federal Drug Enforcement Adminis­tration said Sunday. 
"I thought that was a very courageous action on the part of Colt Guns are dangerous, law enforcement is suffering because of these guns," DEA administrator John Lawn said on the CBS-TV program, "Face the Nation." 
"I am asking them to (take this action), on behalf of the of­ficers who are in danger every single day, because a police of­ficer dies every 57 hours in this country," said Lawn. 
If you've ever dreamed of bei11;:; behind the controls of an airplane, this is your chance to find out what it's really like. 
AMarine Corps pilot is coming to campus who can take you up for trial flights. 
But Attorney General Dick Thornburgh and the new drug czar, William Bennett, said they did not think the govern­ment should call for private manufacturers to stop retail sales of semiautomatic weap­ons. 
Colt announced that it was suspending sales of its AR-15 semiautomatic rifle starting last Thursday, the day after President Bush decided to ban temporarily the import of foreign-made assault rifles. 
Bennett and Thornburgh called for debate on whether the federal government should ban all nonmilitary sales of semiautomatic weapons or urge private companies to voluntarily suspend sales. 
"As an official of the federal government, I don't want to 
If you're cut out for it, we'll give you free civilian flight training, maybe even $100 a month cash while you're in school. And someday you could be flying a Harrier, Cobra or F/A-18. 
Get a taste of what life is like 


FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL 1-800-728-9228 
speak in such ways that sug­gest that I'm pushing them in any direction or another,'' Ben­nett said on the NBC-TV pro­gram, Meet the Press. 
But he added: "I think we can make the case that we don't need a whole lot more as­
. sault rifles on our streets right now." 
Bennett and Thornburgh said a comprehensive solution was needed. 
''If we think that the only way to deal with the drug problem is to ban a particular type of weapon, we're dead wrong," Thornburgh said on the ABC­TV program, "This Week with David Brinkley." 


Gift 
continued from page 1 
students from all departments of the College of Engineering, but "some of the heaviest use is in the courses dealing with programming." He cited EE 251, Structured Programming, as one of the main beneficiaries along with his own class in computer simulation. 
Explaining the motivation for the donation, Henry said, "The reason, of course, is to get students familiar with their equipment, so that when they get into private industry they will influence their employers to purchase their computers." 
"Hewlett-Packard donates money to a number of univer­sities," Henry said, often with a university graduate acting as a go-between. Henry said that a Notre Dame graduate working for Hewlett-Packard was instrumental in helping to work out the details of this do­nation. 


FREE 

TANNING 
Mishawaka Indian Ridge Plaza 
(Next to Venture) Hours: Daily 9-8 
Grape Rd. Sat. 9-6 
277-7946 Sun. 11-5 
Chleago llalrCutting ('~ 


·--~----------------­
----------~----------~ 
page 4 The Observer Monday, March 20, 1989 

Rescue efforts 

Rescue workers watch as heavy equipment is used to search through the rubble of a 900-year­old tower that collapsed in Pavia, Italy, Friday. 

Pan Am 
continued from page 1 
vene in the labor war with Eas­tern boss Frank Lorenzo. 
Eastern's 8,500 machinists entered their third week on strike, which has crippled the nation's seventh-largest airline and forced it to seek bank­ruptcy protection. The workers have refused to give wage con­cessions. 
And a top Teamsters official warned that the strike could be expanded to struggling Pan Am, which competes with Eas­tern on the Boston-New York­Washington shuttle route. 
"One of the (strike) targets would be the shuttle of Pan American . . . where Eastern Airlines is now being pick­eted," said William Genoese, director of the Teamsters Air Division. "Therefore we could tie up the Northeast corridor of the United States." 
"The strike at Eastern Air­lines is a fight for every working person in the United States." 
Join The Observer 
HERE'S ONE COLLEGE MEMORY WE'LL HELP YOU FORGET. 
If you're like a lot of pelple, your longest-lasting memory of college might be the payback on your student loan. The Army has a solution, though: qualify, sign up with us, and we'll sign off your loan. Each year you serve as a soldier, the Army will reduce your college debt by 11.3 or $1500, whichever is greater. So after serving three years, your government loan could be completely paid off. You're eligible for this program if you have a National Direct Student Loan, Guaranteed Student Loan, or Federally Insured Student Loan made after Oct I, 1975. The loan must not be in default Find out how the Army can repay your student loan. 
Call: SGT Robert Hackley 
234-4187 
ARMY BE ALL YOO CAN BE. 
AP Photo 

The collapse of the 255-foot-tower killed at least two people, injured 15 others and damaged an adjacent cathedral. 
Chiropractor agrees to stop demonic diagnosis on patients 
Associated Press 

EVANSVILLE, Ind.-An Evansville chiropractor has agreed to stop advising patients their health problems are caused by acts or in­fluences of demons, evil spirits chiropractic clinic that bears his name, also has met a state request to stop advertising and performing a sinus treatment in which a balloon is inserted into the nose, inflated and then burst. 
or  other  supernatural  crea­ 
tures.  
Lee  Walden,  owner  of  a  

The agreement, which also placed Walden's chiropractic license on probation for six months, culminated three years of investigation. 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 

News Editor 
A resume and a two-page personal statement is due to Matt Gallagher by 3 p.m. on Tuesday, March 21. Call239-5303 or 283-1957 for information. 

MARTYRDOM and BEYOND: A Journey in Memory of Archbishop Oscar Arnulfo Romero 
------~~-----­
--------~·-----------------·--­
Monday, March 20, 1989 
The Observer page 5 
Exiles from Tibet: A portrait of persecution 
Associated Press little terriers yapping in muddy verge of arresting him for pro­Tobgyal said he knew about village, a job that enabled him streets, Dharmsala is a way independence activities. torture from the 11 years he to spread news of upcoming 
DHARMSALA, India-For station for Tibetan activists It was not fear of prison that had already spent in Chinese anti-Chinese demonstrations. Tibetans, this is a place of who fled from the Chinese, a made him leave, he said, but prisons in Tibet. Speaking Dekey is a rosy-cheeked, crushed hopes and cherished storehouse of Tibetan culture, fear of torture that might cause through an interpreter, he said angelic-faced 2-year-old who dreams, a sanctuary far from a shrine for Buddhist pilgrims him to betray others who were the scars on his hands were the hugs strangers exuberantly the Chinese who now rule their and a center for plotting politi­not yet under suspicion for or­result of beatings with wooden and demands to be cuddled. homeland and close to their cal strategies. ganizing demonstrations or clubs and iron bars and being spiritual leader, the Dalai slipping information to foreign suspended by his thumbs from She was brought to Lama, himself an exile for 30 Sonam Tobgyal, a 47-year­travelers. the ceiling for 15 minutes to an Dharmsala from Lhoka, a town years. old man with hard eyes and a "I was getting known by the hour at a time. in southern Tibet, a year ago 
High in the Himalayan foot­network of scars across his Chinese. One of my friends was by a mother who returned hills of north India, with big thumbs and knuckles, left Tibet arrested," he said, seated in He said he was released from home to the rest of her family brown monkeys scampering six weeks ago because he the sunshine on a rooftop ter­prison in 1979 and started ped­and may never see Dekey across slate roofs and shaggy thought the Chinese were on the race. "I had to escape." dling clothing from village to again. 

Seattle Phoenix $99 roundtrip $99 roundtrip 
LosAngeles 
$99 roundtrip 

Aspecial offer for students,
only for Atfierican Express·Cardmembers. 
New York Cill' $99 roundtrip 
RJrl Lauderdale 
$99 roundtrip 

If you want to go places, it's time for the American Express® Card. 
Because now you can take advantage of new travel privileges on Northwest Airlines onlyforfull-time students who carry the American Express Card 
Travel privileges that offer: -~ 7Wo $99 roundtrip tickets-fly to many of NORTiiWEST the more than 180 cities served by North-AIRLINES west in the contiguous 48 United States. LOOK ro us Only one ticket may be used per six-month period. 
SpecialQuarterlyNorthuRstDestination Disrounts 
throughout1909-up to 25% offmost available fares. 
5,000 bonus miles in Northwest's WORLDPERKS® 
free travel program-where only 20,000 miles gets 
you afree roundtrip ticket to anywhere Northwest flies 
in the contiguous 48 United States or Canada-upon 
enrollment through this special student offer. 
And, of course, you'll enjoy all the exceptional benefits and personal service you would expect from American Express. 
The only requirements for privileged travel: you must be aCardmember, you must be afull-time stu­dent, and you must charge your Northwest Airlines tickets with the Card.* 
Getting the Card is easier than ever because now you can apply by phone. just calll-800-942-AMEX. We'll take your application and begin to process it right away. What's more, with our Automatic 
Approval offers, you can qualify now while you're still in school. 
Apply now. Fly later -for less. 


Apply Now: 1-800-942-AMEX 
"Fare is for roundtrip travel on Northwest Airlines. Tickets must be purchased within 24 hours after making reservations. Fares are non-refundable and no itinerary changes may be 
made after purchase. Seats at this fare are limited and may not be available when you call. Travel must be completed by certificate expiration date and may not be available between RELATED cities to which Northwest does not have direct connections or routings. City fuel tax surcharges not included in fare from Boston ($2. 50), Chicago ($5.00) and Florida cities ($2.00). SERVICES Certain blackout dates and other restrictions may apply. For complete offer details, calll-800-942-AMEX. Current student Cardmembers automatically receive two $99 vouchers in the 
'""Ame<ocan e.,....""""""" mail. © 1989 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. 
.------~-------------------------------------~----------~------------­
page 6 
De Klerk's effect on South Africa's future questioned 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South Mrica -The selection of a shrewd, affable pragmatist as President P.W. Botha's succes­sor is contributing to a surge of hope for a peaceful breakthrough in South Mrica's political stalemate. 
News Analysis 
So far, however, the optimis­tic musings are coming almost exclusively from whites. 
Black leaders make clear they will be relieved when Botha steps down. But they suspect his heir apparent, F. W. De Klerk, will preside over changes more cosmetic than substantive. 
Mangosuthu Buthelezi, the Zulu political leader denounced by many black activists as too conservative, says he will op­pose De Klerk until the govern­ment gives blacks full voting rights. There is no sign De Klerk contemplates such ac­tion. 
At the other end of the black political spectrum, the Mrican National Congress guerrilla movement says changes under De Klerk will be in personal style, not National Party policy. 
De Klerk and Botha "are pieces of the same carcass," spokesman Tom Sebina said from the outlawed movement's exile headquarters in Lusaka, Zambia. "If the meat is bad, the meat is bad." 
Botha, 73, resumed his presidential duties last week after an eight-week convales­cence from a stroke. In the in­terim, he resigned as National Party leader and was replaced by De Klerk, the minister of na­tional education. 
In a dramatic chain of events, Nationalist newspapers and politicians began suggest­ing that Botha should retire, Botha responded by declaring he would stay in office until next year, and the party's par­liamentary caucus resolved that it wanted De Klerk to be president. 
However, the party has nei­ther the constitutional power nor the appetite to force Botha from office. De Klerk said Friday he will seek cordial coexistence with the president while urging his party to "break new ground" in pursu­ing political reform. 
De Klerk, who turned 53 Sat­urday, has never been viewed as liberal. But supporters and skeptics alike depict him as more open-minded and less im­perious than Botha, who has headed the government since 1978. 
Mter becoming party leader, De Klerk called for a South Africa "free of domination and oppression." Other party offi­cials say at least some remain­ing apartheid laws--those segregating residential areas and public facilities--may be modified. 
The Observer Monday, March 20, 1989 

AP Photo
Smooth sailing 

The NASA shuttle Discovery touches down on the morning. The shuttle successfully completed a six­runway at Edwards Air Force Base early on Saturday day mission in space. 
Issue of raising the minimum wage set for debate in House this week 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -As business and labor argue over raising the minimum wage, the poten­tial impact on the federal budget and major jobs pro­grams has been virtually lost in the debate. 
That changes this week when the bitterly partisan debate reaches the House floor. 
Some say raising the mini­mum wage from its current $3.35 an hour to $4.65 as pro­posed would have virtually no impact on the federal budget. Others argue it would cost the budget, and taxpayers, as much as $5 billion. 
Although most Democrats have downplayed any budget impact, an analysis prepared last week by the Congressional Budget Office for the Demo­cratic sponsors of the legisla­tion conceded that raising the minimum wage could cost the government money and pos­sibly force cuts in at least four jobs programs. 
But a House Republican analysis estimates that if the Democrats' bill becomes law it would cost $570 million a year by 1992 to maintain current staffing levels in just those four programs, College Work Study, Head Start, Community Ser­vice for Older Americans and the federal government's sum­mer youth jobs program. 
QQAJR({})TUN[J}) !P!LA.N A!BIJEJl Jl]) ENGINEERING GRADUATE SCHOOL A Short Presentation.followed by a Questions & Answer Session TUES. MARCH 21 7:00 P.M. Room 356, Fitzpatrick ~ Sponsored by Office of Engineering Research and Gfclduate Studies College of Engineering University bfNotre Dame  

Viewpoint
Monday, March 20, 1989 page 7 
Spreading the Catholic version of love 
Love one another. The message of Christianity is often reduced to this. And Christ himself did not hesitate to simplify much of his teaching and the teaching of the Old Testament in this way. Not infrequently the core content of each and every religious and philo­sophic world-view is reducible to this command. 
Thomas D'Andrea 
inside out 

There is probably some justification for this in that it has seemed evident to man from time immemorial that much of what this deeply mysterious life is about is being properly related to the "other"--be that other animate or inanimate nature, the universe of other human beings, or the Creator Himself. But it is of particular impor­tance what one understands "love" to be, and beyond this, what one deems are the necessary and appropriate measures to abide in this love. Here, most religious and philosphical belief systems greatly diverge because they differ quite significantly in their views of what human well-being consists of, how it is to be secured, and what the point of human life is. Answers to all these question~ condition one's under­standing of what the "love" referred to in the so-called Golden Rule represents. 
The Roman Catholic Church puts for­ward one such understanding of what authentic love of the other is and how it is to be attained and maintained. And from an important, if incomplete, point of view, the Catholic Church in all its history, actions, and aspirations is but a sustained argument, a constant protracted claim, about who man is, 
where he came from, where he is headed. With a very definite and spe­cific understanding of the point of human life and the nature of man, the Catholic Church directs its members by equally specific means to realize the purpose of their existence and abide in that love for the other (i.e., which in­cludes both God and neighbor). To obey the seemingly universal Golden Rule Catholics do very unique and particular things that members of other religious faiths do not do. Hindus do not receive Holy Communion, Buddhists do not go to confession, secular humanists do not practice devotion to the Mother of God, and Marxists do not practice bodily self-denial to atone for their sins against God. 
It follows that if we reckon ourselves Catholic we must heed the very partic­ular injunctions our church gives us, instructing in the person of Christ him­self, all of which concern how we can do what all men of good will, regardless of religious or philosophic creed, have always sought to do--love the other. For a Catholic to see that love is all that matters is but a start. We must trust the wisdom of our religious tradition passed on and developed by the first apostles, their descendants the bishops, the popes and the councils of the Church, and the saints and martyrs, as to what that love is, how it is to be main­tained, and what positively and defini­tively excludes it. We will then see that the following activites and practices (among others) seriously curtail our ability to love: selfish careerism, in­temperance, all sexual meandering outside the context of marriage, bourgeois materialism, laziness and comfortable self-indulgence. We simply cannot engage in these things and "love" (i.e., be properly related to 

God and one another). We can take part in them and wish others well, but we will be impotent to help them and will end up manipulating them to serve our own selfish purposes in the end. 
If we trust the wisdom of the Catholic tradition, we will see that we are thoroughly incapable of authentic love without God's grace, and that we can­not get that grace but through a lot of prayer and receiving the sacraments often (particularly the sacrament of Holy Communion and the sacrament of reconciliation). A Catholic who neglects these things or even fails to give them first importance is like a Maoist who fails to meditate faithfully on his "Little Red Book," or a Zen monk who leaves off the practice of his med­itation, or a disciple of the Rev. Sun Yun Moon who refuses to sell his flowers. For us Catholics, prayer, the sacraments, and the disciplining of the lusts of the flesh and the pride of the spirit are where it's at if we want to love more. And Lent is a good time to start again. 
Thomas D'Andrea is a graduate stu­dent in philosophy and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
P.O. Box Q 
Minorities need to preserve culture 
Dear Editor: 
In response to Ms. Alvarez's column on Feb. 27, I'd like to discuss the hack­neyed theme of cultural diversity yet again. Although Ms. Alvarez made some good points about the prejudging tendencies of both blacks and whites at Notre Dame, she didn't carry home any point about the need to understand one's self before being able to under­stand cultural diversity. 
As Ms. Alvarez stated, no one in America is 100 percent black, white, or anything else, so there is much diver­sity within groups. And we as a com­munity, particularly minorities at Notre Dame, would do well to join to­gether to understand ourselves before we can understand others and in turn be understood. 
As Alvarez mentioned, there are only a small number of blacks here at Notre Dame, so it is natural for us to want to band together and be familiar with one another. Itis unfair for whites or blacks to put one label on us because of this, as a group here, or anywhere. 
I take offense at anyone trying to stereotype my actions as being "black" or "white." Ms. Alvarez states this also. However, she commits this deed by suggesting that blacks on campus don't like her because she "refuses to talk slang to please others ..." 
What? Do all blacks sound like the titles of rap songs? I think not. There are all kinds of accents here, from as far west as California to as far east as Boston. These accents have no color, thus there is no one particular way of speaking for blacks or whites. 
But though there are no accents bound to one race or another, especially at an institution such as this, there is a need to bond with familiar cultural backgrounds. Socializing within one's own group is comfortable, nurturing, and educational. In short, it is a neces­sity, particularly here where minorities 
make up such a small percentage of students. 
It is from our own that we learn about ourselves--from whence we came and where we are going, because no one else will give us an accurate account but ourselves. It is from our own that we can talk about problems and cope with life here. It is from our own that we learn to accept and respect our­selves, and in turn accept and respect others. 
So it is for these reasons that any black person here would be friendly to other blacks, athletes or not, not be­cause they work at a training table. 
Minorities at Notre Dame, while seeming separatist or exclusive to some, are merely trying to preserve our culture in a place where we are truly a minority. As young, intelligent, black individuals, we have the duty of binding together to become stronger as a people, and not falling prey to the characteristics of disunity we know so well: pettiness, unfriendliness, disor­ganization, back stabbing, and vindic­tive competition. 

Instead, we have to unify with the understanding that we are not all alike in character just because we are alike in color--there is diversity among diverse groups. But within that diver­sity we can be unified, strong, unique, and proud, without a special year set aside for this discovery. 
And it is through an understanding of our own culture's diversity that we can command respect from ourselves and others--not by picking fights in words and deeds--or in print. 
Lehia D. Franklin Pasquerilla West Feb. 28, 1989 
The Observer retains the right to edit all commentaries submitted to the Viewpoint department. Please note that the more concise the piece, the less we will have to edit it to fit our space. 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau Quote of the Day 
NqNQ NO! NOT  
APAM'5 FtJa­600'S 174Cl3/  YOU GOT 'EM M!xtl? UP, YOU NINNY.'  YOU5TIU. HAVt-N'T !<&AI? MY 800K,HAVt­ 
YOU?  

'A stumble may prevent a fall.' 
-Thomas Fuller 

Editorial Board  Operations Board  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303  Editor-in-Chief .................................... Chris Donnelly Managing Editor .................................. Regis Coccia  Business Manager ............................... Rich Iannelli Advertising Manager .............................. Molly Killen  
Exec. News Editor ...................... Matthew Gallagher  Advertising Design Manager ......... Shaonon Roach  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration oreither insmution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board.  Viewpoint Editor .................................... Dave Bruner Sports Editor ....................................... Theresa Kelly Accent Editor ........................................... John Blasi Photo Editor ............................................. Eric Bailey  Production Manager ............................ Alison Cocks Systems Manager .............................. Mark Derwent OTS Director ................................... Angela Bellanca  
Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged.  Founded November 3,1966  


-----~--------­

Accent 
page 8 Monday, March 20, 1989 
La 

Celebraci6n 
de 

Negro 
CINDY PETRITES accent writer 

5 
aturday night at the Cen­tury Center, the cran­berry curtains parted to reveal. . .fashion, flair and fun. Not too much of the un­expected, but a very profes­sional presentation awaited the viewerlfan at the lOth An­nual Black Cultural Arts Council-sponsored Fashion Show. 
Alliterative announcers Jocelyn Allen and Roderick West set the stage for fashion and fun with a tribute to Mar­tin Luther King, Jr., a brief presentation on the richness of black heritage, and La Celebracion de Negro began. 
Against a watercolor back­drop of jazz musicians and palm trees, the eleven hand­picked models strutted their stuff. The first skit had models Pat Terrell, Calvin Allen and Audrey Brent ap­pearing in an interpretation of traditional African tribal costume complete in gold­embroidered fez, leather san­dals, and tribal poncho. 
The women were hot, but the men clearly got the audi­ence motivated as they saun­tered in their full-length wool 
Calvin and Hobbes 
(.'\(Ot-l,, 0.\..~\~ ~ 1 W-l~ WM\1 ~t.LUOJ 11-1\S IS ~t. TO <H \JP. HAVE "fO, 
l\1\RO TIME. I OJN\ Wf>..t-11 ~\.\ffi\ER ¥o\J 
I'IJt Cf..U£D It) ~ TO Wf>.NT 1t) OR YOO GtT UP. S0-100\.. . NOT, 9::l 
-,,_-----1; LET's 1101/E . 
(Top) Niobe Joseph and Audrey Brent display a lot of leg and a little of the latest in swimwear. (Left) Frances Shavers struts her stuff in the BCAF fashion show. 
Observer photos by Scott McCann 
tweeds, oversized linen 
dusters and too-cool black shades, "exercising their prerogative to look good." 
The crowd clearly went wild when LA rapper Tone­Loc's "Wild Thing" heralded the swimsuit fashions. As the women frolicked in modest but flattering one-pieces, the men peeled down to the briefest of Speedos, much to the delight of the audience. The skit was entitled "Walk­ing on the Beach, Kicking up Sand," but no sand was kicked Saturday night, that's for sure. 
The palm trees played backdrop to a "starlight night" as leather, silk, and suede in traditional black and brown and in the jewel colors of fuschia and purple took the stage. Particularly memorable was the royal purple leather ensemble sported by model Tracy Lowery. The black silk duster with leather trim and the body-hugging black tank dress worn by Niobe Joseph left a lasting impression, too. 
Then the amiable announ­cers ceded the mike and stage to South Bend's own androgenous designer, Fuddie, of Studio Five's 
Fuddie Fashions. Fuddie en­couraged the audience to "put our hands together" as he came out with the most un­"fuddy-duddy" of fashions. First on the runway were models James Suttle and Pat Terrell sporting glorified white long-johns which, as Fuddie himself cautioned, were for the man with noth­ing to hide. Following these were a series of dramatic blacks and whites--in emblemed T-shirts, rayon pants, Zorro hats. Sophistica­tion took the stage as model Frances Shavers made her appearance in thigh-high leat­her boots and midnight-black cape. Lavender and camel pantsuits, emerald green leat­her minis, blood red silk eve­ning gowns complete with cape, and sequined velvet floor-length formals all floated by, with this section <lf the show culminating in Fuddie's wedding fashions. 
The show's finale, featuring Mr. Leonard's furs and a cameo appearance by the show's coordinators Lauren­teen Carla Morris and Delia Lozano, provided a fitting close to an evening of fitting clothes which was profes­sionally done and fun for all. 
Bill Watterson 
'\\~
"-v~~-_.. 
-~­
--TIII'IIIIrll. 

(Top) Frances Shavers assists Pat Terrell in primping moments before his stage debut. (Bottom) Terrell begins to saunter down the runway. 

i'
' l 

·*' \ 
·~' ·..
·r; 
j; 
-~ 


/ 

------------------------~----------------------------------------------~~~~~~--.-.-.~--~---------­
Monday, March 20, 1989 The Observer page 9 
St. Joe gains trip to finals Sutton resigns as 
By GREG GUFFEY The guard duo of Darran 74, David Anderson, who led all Assistant Sports Editor Teamor and Rodney Holmes scorers with 38 points, missed keyed the Indians in the finale. the first of two free throws. He 
UK basketball coach 
After a thrilling overtime Teamor scored 22 points, and then purposely missed his Associated Press who, according to the coacQ,victory against No. 1 Marion Holmes chipped in 21. Daimon second attempt, but came into accepted the resignation and Saturday morning, some might Beathea led the Chargers with the lane too soon. 
LEXINGTON, Ky. expressed thanks for Sut­have expected South Bend St. 22 points. 
Twenty-four hours after ton's dedication to the pro­
Joseph's to be flat in the night's "That one thing--our lack of saying that resignation gram.
semistate final. "We executed a lot better, hit ability to shoot free throws and would be an admission of 
our free throws and Rodney their ability to do that--was the During his own news con­
guilt, Eddie Sutton resigned 
But the No. 3 Indians Holmes had a lot better game ballgame," Marion coach Dan ference Sunday night,
as Kentucky basketball co­
responded with a convincing than in the afternoon," Austin Gunn said. "It was a great Roselle said the question of
ach on Sunday. He insisted
78-62 win over unranked said. game. St Joe played well and I Sutton's resignation had
he was not forced to resign come up in a meeting last
Elkhart Memorial in front of a didn't think we were too bad andthatheisinnocentofany Wednesday at the presi­sold-out Joyce ACC crowd to In the morning contest, either." 
wrongdoing in connection dent's residence on the UKgain a berth in the state finals Marion almost had the game with an NCAA investigation campus. "We talked about it this weekend at Market Sqaure out of reach before St. Joe's got Elkhart Memorial outscored of the program. 
(resignation)--what was
Arena in Indianapolis. its wake-up call. Fort Wayne Concordia 11-2 in Rumors of Sutton's resig­good for the program,"
"It's an awesome feeling," the overtime period to gain a nation, or possible firing, Roselle said of the session,St. Joe coach Steve Austin said. The Giants built a 65-56 ad­spot in the finals. 
had circulated since last Oc­which also included acting"Basically it came down to vantage with 1:49 to play in the tober, when the NCAA an­athletic director Joe Burke
heart." game, but could not connect on Sean Cooper hit two free nounced 18 allegations and UK lawyer James ParkIt marks the first time since free throws down the stretch. throws with three seconds against the basketball pro­Jr., among others. 
1973 that a South Bend team Marion missed the front ends remammg in regulation to gram.
has advanced to the finals, and of three one-and-one opportuni­force the extra stanza with a Sutton, who on Saturday Roselle praised what he 
the first appearance ever for ties. 73-73 score. Concordia held a had repeated his intention to called Sutton's "wiliingnessthe Indians. 39-36 lead at the half, but the remain as coach, said he to recognize that his resig­Holmes nailed a three­Chargers had a 14-11 run in the changed his mind because of nation is a necessary step in St. Joe's will meet Lawrence pointer with :59 left to cut the third period to tie the game at the increasing rumors about the process of rebuilding our North at 12:30 p.m. Saturday, lead to 65-63. Jason McCain 50. 
his status. One such report, basketball program." 
while Floyd Central and then hit one free throw for the which surfaced last Friday, Roselle added that the UKKokomo tangle in first semi­Giants, but Kevin Lorton hit a Tim Johnson led the winners said Sutton had offered to athletics board was sched­
final at 11 a.m. three-pointer as time ran out to with 24 points, while Ross Hales fire his assistants if he would 
The Indians downed Marion force overtime. chipped in 23. Chris Hoeppner uled to meet on Tuesday tobe retained. 
discuss the UK basketball
76-74 in the first semifinal, paced Concordia with 21 points. 
"These instances have situation, what the UK pres­while the Chargers defeated Lorton was an un likely hero popped up and I think they ident termed a "manage­Fort Wayne Concordia 84-75 in for the Indians. It was his first NOTES --Anderson's 38 will continue to do that, and ment" meeting.
overtime in the second mor­three-point attempt of the points was nine shy of the local I think people are going to 
ning contest. season. semistate record of 47 set by get hurt and I can't see doing Asked if his leaving might 
"When I looked around all I Kokomo's Jim Ligon in 
that," he said: soften any possible punish­In the championship game, saw was gold staring at me," 1962... Lorton was injured in During a news conference, ment meted out by theElkhart Memorial streaked to Lorton said, "so I just let it the final minutes of the title Sutton said he made his deci­NCAA, Sutton said, "I would 
a 15-13 lead after one period, fly." game, but should be able to sion Saturday night after hope they would take it into but the Indians hit for 30 points play this weekend... Marion consulting with his family consideration." 
....
in the second stanza to take a The Indians never trailed in had won 10 semistate titles, and doing "a lot of praying." Roselle added: ''one hopes 43-30 lead. The Chargers could the overtime, but Marion had while the remammg three He met Sunday with UK that it does, but one does not never cut the lead into single a chance to tie with five schools had never made a trip president David Roselle, do it for that reason." 
digits in the second half. seconds left. With the score 76-to the Final Four. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
Furnished ROOMS-$120tno; 2 BDRM GOVERNMENT HOMES! From $1.00 (U Ramada Inn of Elkhart has rooms for "JUNIORS: PLANNING AN EFFEC­AN TOSTAL'89 GENERAL MEETING HOME-$280mo, 3 blocks from campus Repair). Foreclosures, Repos, Tax Graduation weekend. Minimum stay 2 TIVE JOB SEARCH," PRESENTATION ND LIBRARY AUDITORIUM MONDAY
NOTICES 272-6306 Delinquent Properties. Now Selling nights with $100 deposit per room. BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER MARCH 20 9 p.m. This Area! Call (Refundable 1-315-733-Send letter to 3011 Belvedere Rd., AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. 6064 Ext G2382H For Current Listings! Elkhart, IN 46514 or Call219-262-1581. TONIGHT AT 7:00 P.M. IN 127 
TYPING AVAILABLE SKYDIVING SEASON BEGINS APR 1
Anyone wanting to rent a Turtle Creek NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL ALL 287-4082 Apartment during the summer months ROUNDTRIP TICKET TO ALLENTOWN, Helpll! I need a ride to Pittsburgh (PA WELCOME. REPEATED TOMORROW IF INTERESTED CALL DEAN 287-3024 contact Usa at # 4886. PA. LEAVE THURS.(3'23)· RETURN Turnpike 6) on 3-29 or 3-30. VERY im­EVENING 
MON NIGHT CALL # 4966 portant!! Will help with gas and toll. Mike TO THE MANAGEMENT: THANK YOU NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for GRAD STUDENTS, 3 BD. FURN. ..................................................... 4141 "JUNIORS: PLANNING AN EFFEC­FOR A PLEASURABLE DINING EXPE­CASH'! Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash HOUSE. CLOSE TO CAMPUS, SECUR­80 TOYOTA CELLICA GT 5-SP MUST ................................................. TIVE JOB SEARCH", PRESENTATION RIENCE AT THE ST. MARY'S DINING 
or Crecjit available! PANDORA'S BOOK ITY CONSCIOUS. CALL 289-8539. SELL, GOOD CONDITION $1500 OR I NEED A RIDE TO WASHINGTON D.C. BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER HALL. 808 Howard St: just off of N.D. BEST OFFER CALL 277-6509 AFTER OR VIRGINIA (CHARLOTTESVILLE) ANO PLACEMENT SERVICES. THE DINERS Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. FOR EASTER BREAK. WILL SHARE 
TONIGHT AT 7:00 P.M. IN 127 233-2342 $$$. CALL ROSI AT 3567. NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. ALL WELCOME. REPEATED TOMORROW 
SCIENCE OUARTERL Y MAGAZINE EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL HOPING TO ADOPT EVENING Mealing: MON. 3'20, 7 PM Am. 118, MRS. COKER, 233-7009. We're a happily married, financially N.S.H. TOPIC-The Fourth Issue All in­
;;;~" I t~~~~mm 
secure couple with a beautiful home TO RICK'S ROOMMATE: THANKS terested writers are asked to attend!!! and lots of love to share with much­FOR MAKING JPW SO VERY SPECIAL CALL LINDA 9-5 WEEKDAYS 1-612-wanted baby. If you are pregnant and FOR US. WE LOVE YOU. INDULGE YOURSELF 
CW--"And me so undeserving"
456-0884 EXT. C-4080 considering placing your baby for MAW AND PAW LET YOUR HAIR DOWN WITH adoption, please call us. We can help RIDE NEEDED to Nashville for Easter ALAN FAYE 
\ LOST/FOUND \ 
you, and you can help us make our LOST-BLACK CUMMERBUND AT TAl­Will share expenses.Call Christina 239-AND
lives complete. Expenses paid. Con­TO THOSE ON AND OFF THE JPW
hlag

MILITARY FORMAL!! call BRET x1389 7424 fidential, legal. Call Deborah and JELLYFISH LIST, THANKS FOR THE MCNEILLS David collect day or night at 312-935-SHARING NO AND YOUR PARENTS.
SUMMER JOBS

LOST:CLADDAGH RING from Ireland. NEED RIDE TO PHILLY, DC, OR NY 4088, or call our counselor collect at MAW & PAW THEODORE'S, TONIGHT 9:30, $2 -.
ALL LANDWATER SPORTS
GREAT sentimental value to me. 11th AREAS FOR EASTER. WILL HELP 31 :!280-8744. floor LIBRARY Wed eve.Y1, 11 pm. WITH OOLLARS 
PRESTIGE CHILDREN$' CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS
PLEASE contact Terry at X4010 or drop CALL TASHA X4072 ARE YOU DRIVING SOUTH FOR
ACTOR: needed for short subject til MustNEAR LAKE PLACID
in mail to 718 Grace. EASTER BREAK? I NEED A RIDE TO
be reliable and open to acting out per­
CALL 1-BQ0-343-8373 I need a ride to EVANSVILLE IN. for
NEED BABYSITTER ON SATURDAYS ATLANTA OR ANYWHERE CLOSE If you were g1ven a black bow off a black FOR 15 MO. OLD. TRANSPORTATION (NASHVILLE OR BIRMINGHAM)--WILL sonal situations. Call Bill x2990, Paul
Easter break. Will pay. Beth x4802 

x1847 for meeting.taffeta dress at the Dillon Formal at the PROVIDED. PLEASE CALL 271-8564. HELP PAY FOR GAS AND BEER FOR Elks Lodge on Feb. 25 it is mine. Please THE TRIP... I CAN LEAVE THURSDAY
ADOPTION-Caring, financially secure GET YOUR EASTER BASKETS ACTRESS: needed for short subject film. 
couple of Irish and Swedish ancestry AT
call 284-5085 soon. RIDE DESPERATELY NEEDED TO PIT­MORNING... CALL ANN AT 49281FYOU
Must be self-aware, uninhibited aboutwish to love, cherish, and raise your new­THE COUNTRY HARVESTER
TSBURGH EASTER WEEKEND, WILL CAN HELP! LOST: On Feb. 9 in Rolf's Aquatic Center, PAY EXPENSES, HELP WITH 
··············· personal subject matter. Acting experi­
born child. Legal and confidential. Please MON-FRI, 12:Q0-5:30 ence please. Call Bill x2990, Paul x1847call Linda and Craig COLLECT: 212-877-LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER
women's locker room, in or around locker DRIVING. THANKSII LAURA 4948. Don't ask people what they did for break 
to meet3574

189. White gold pinkie ring with or what they're going to do for Easter
................................................... 
aquamarine stone. Great sentimental I NEED A RIDE FOR EASTER TO PHIL­Break. It's really getting old. And if you
SMC NO ROME SUMMER PROGRAM value. Please cal Jennifer at 284-5113. LY, NJ, OR NYCII WILL HELP WITH ALL can't think of anything better to say. just
SUMMER JOBS TO SAVE ENVIRON-Make this Easter most unique, when the FOR ALL COLLEGE STUDENTS. JUNE 
MENT Easter Bunny hops down your street! per­
EXPENSES AND DRIVING-CALL shut up. You'll be a better and much more LOST or stolen from S. Dining Hall on X4048!1 interesting person for tt. 
18-JULY 17. TRAVEL IN PARIS, GER­EARN $2500-3500. National campaign sonalized deliveries, 255-3355. 
MANY, SWilZ. AND ITALY. COURSES 3'2--blue and tan backpack. Contains im­
positions to pass clean air act, stop 
IN HIST-ORY, AND LANGUAGE. portant research for Anthro Dept. Call NEED RIDE TO PITT FOR EASTER ATTN. CREW TEAM: Finally some lop
toxic pollution, tighten pesticide con­
MEETING APRIL 3 IN ROOM 349 Chris at X3578 REWARD. LEAVE WHENEVER CALL JOE 233-memories from a week at Turkey Lake
trols & promote comprehensive recy­
MAOELEVA. SLIDES, PIZZA ETC. FOR 8138 -"Wait...Okay...Wait" -"WE WIN" -Don
cling, available In 18 states & D.C. WANTED: STUDENT EARNING WAY 
INFO CALL PROF. A. R. BLACK AT Found: Set of keys near Rockne Mem. THROUGH COLLEGE. FULL TIME Leslie, Mr. Salty 1989 -"Set this boat or
Call Kate at 1-BQ0-622-2202. 
284-4460 OR 272-3726. 

Call 2485 to identify. OURING SUMMER-APPROX. 30 HRS. we'll perish 
Need ride to D.C. area for Easter. Will WEEK DURING SCHOOL YEAR. in the maelstrom!" LOST LOST LOST BUILDING STRUC-share expenses. Call Angie 264-4294 MOSTLY OFFICE WORK. -"In the Tikki Tikki Tikki Room" ·"It's al­
······························· 
Scap!!! (Use it) 

GOT SPRING FEVER??? DIVE INTO TURES TEXTBOOK GREY AND WHITE KNOWLEDGEABLE OR INTEREST IN ways a good t.v. show
MUD VOLLEYBALL AND SLIDE INTOADOPT: Happily married, professional
COVER HARDBOUND PLEASE CALL RIDE NEEDED tofrom Rochester, NY BUILDING MATERIALS HELPFUL until mom comes down and people
ULTIMATE FRISBEE SIGN UPS WED.
couple wishes to provide wonderful
TERRY X2706 I REALLY NEED THIS Easter Break. Can leave anytime. Will CAUL FOR APPOINTMENT. start f-------"
MARCH 22 6-8 P.M. DOOLEY AM
home, secure future, much love for
BOOK III help with driving & expenses. Call ROZ BIG C LUMBER -"Where's Therese?" -Auschwitz Four vs.
LAFORTUNE AN TOSTAL'89white newborn. Legal. Expenses paid. 
at x3696. 125 DIXIEWAY NORTH Swim Team -Battle Royale wrth Brian LOST: set of 3 keys on brass class of 277-4550 Laps -"I don't want to make money, folks 
. ............ . 
Call us collect 212-517-2696. 

ATTENION BADINITES: VOTE 1987 key chain please call Betsy 284-Ride offerd to Clev 3'24-26.616-699 7140 I just love to sell guns"
HRYCKO AND HUTTON!! WE'RECOME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: Out­
4294 if found -Finally,
SERIOUS ABOUT HAVING FUN IN B
standing brother/sister sports camps "JUNIORS: PLANNING AN EFFEc­ONLY 349 DAYS UNTIL JOHN on largest lake In New England near 
TIVE JOB SEARCH," PRESENTATION O'BRIEN'S "ON GOLDEN POND" site seek staff. 
BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER BIRTHDAY!
FOR RENT Jl.____F_O_R_SA_LE----J ALL TRAVEL PAID. Call Collect: AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. DC,PHILLY,BAL TIMORE Roblndel (girls) 215-884-3326, 
TONIGHT AT 7:00 P.M. IN 127 HELP! Ride needed for Easter!Anyone'-------------------~ NEED A CAR? '82 Subaru. 107K,Decent Wlnaukee (boys) 203-227-4387 or see NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL ALL going this way-can I please come? QUICK! CALL THE FASHION POLICE! HOUSE NEAR CAMPUS AVAILABLE shape, $925 or reasonable offer. Inquire us on Thurs., M~r. 30, 10:30 AM-2PM MAJORS WELCOME. REPEATED To­ITS ALYCIA'S BIRTHDAY SHE'S TER­FOR RENT UNTIL AUGUST. 232-3616. at 283 3554 at LaFortune. MORROW EVENING. Share usuai.Lisa 2663 RIBLY FABULOUS! 

Big crowd honors champions 
By GREG GUFFEY Assistant Sports Editor 

More than 2600 fans honored Notre Dame's national football championship team . Friday night at the team's National Championship Testimonial Banquet at the Joyce ACC. 
Associated Press college football editor Herschel Nis­senson presented the Irish tri­captains with the AP championship trophy, while Jimmy McDowell gave them the National Football Founda­tion and Hall of Fame award. 
"I've presented a lot of AP trophies at a lot of banquets, but I've never seen support for a football team like I do tonight or did today in South Bend," Nissenson said. 

The evening started with two videos highlighting the season­-"They Wanted to Win" and "Heart of a Champion." A "I can honestly say now, I highlight medley prepared by feel like a champion," Green Golden Dome Productions said. came later in the evening. Irish head coach Lou Holtz 
Don Criqui, a Notre Dame took the opportunity to look graduate and a sportscaster at back on the season, but also NBC since 1979, served as the said it was time to move ahead. master of ceremonies. 
"I saw one poll where Don "It isn't often you get to stand Nehlen was voted the number­up here and say you're the best one coach, Troy Aikman will at what you've chosen to do," be the first player selected in Holtz said. "Why are we here? the draft and the Heisman We're here because of attitude, Trophy went ot Barry the self-confidence, the self­Sanders," Criqui said. "Wit­belief. hout a doubt, Lou Holtz was the "I love you guys because you best coach in college football refused to be mediocre, Holtz and the Most Valuable Player continued. "This football team was No. 9, Tony Rice." refused to be second. People 
come and people go. That's life. 

Many of the Irish seniors had There's one thing you can't lose a turn at the microphone, in­and that's the faith in Notre cluding the tri-captains. Mark Dame. Green said it took awhile for "But after tonight," he con­the national championship to cluded, "we're going to put it settle in. away." 
Kite wins second straight tourney 
Associated Press 
PONTE VEDRA, Fla. --Tom Kite, getting the break he said he would need, shot a 71 on Sun­day for a one-stroke victory in the Players Championship, his second consecutive victory of the season. 
"Good golf won't get it," Kite said after the third round of this annual championship of golf's touring pros. "Whoever wins it will have to get one more break 

~.. 
than the other guys." 
Kite's came on the par-5 16th hole, where, with a two-shot 12th victory of his 18-year PGA champion pocketed $31,050 for tour career. his tie for 11th at 285 and joined 

It followed his gift victory Jack Nicklaus as the only last weekend at Orlando, Fla., career $5 million winners. Wat­where he became a winner son now is at $5,014,526. when Davis Love III bogeyed Chip Beck, the third-round the second playoff hole. leader, rallied from a dreadful 
Kite's victory was worth start with a 20-foot birdie putt $243,000 from the total purse of on the final hole that gave him $1.35 million, pushed his earn­second place alone at 280. ings for the season to $561,723 Beck's 73 included a 41 over and gave him the money­the front and a 32 on the back winning lead. nine. 
Tom Watson, although never Bruce Lietzke, who had a tie in contention, also achieved a for second until Beck's last­money-winning milestone. hole heroics, was third at 72­
The five-time British Open 281. 
lead, he hit a wood club for his ..----------------------..
second shot. 
It went through the green, the ball skipping and scooting toward the water further on, 

ND AVE APrS. with Kite gnawing on a knuckle in anxiety. 
Only the collar of high grass 

SPECIAL SUMMER RATES 
behind the green prevented the ball from plunging into the 

AVAILABLE
pond. It stopped inches short. 
Kite, 39, made par on the hole 

also renting for Fall 
and went on to a 1-under-par round under difficult scoring conditions at the TPC course at Sawgrass--hard, fast greens and strong, gusty winds. 

2 Bedrooms completely furnished 
Kite had a final score of 279, nine under par, in posting the 

Call 234-8847 
-~ --... ... ... .A
Defense -­
continued from page 16 have been getting the majority 1• 
of work among the second­team players. Senior David Jandric also is seeing plenty of 1' 
scrimmage time. "Rod Smith, George Poor­man, Greg Davis, Shawn Davis 1t and David Jandric are all guys we're looking to develop and make better," said Heater. ~
1

"That'll help create some r depth for us." 
Both teams looked impres­sive in the weekend's drills. t i Smith established himself as a punishing hitter in the mold of the other Irish backs. He also 
1

has a time of 4.32 in the 40, tops • on the team. All the Irish backs hav~ good speed, but even more surprising is their im-I~ mense strength. "They did a good job," said Heater. "The defense is always ahead of the 1~ offense this time of the year. They're seeing things, they're reacting. We keep bringing .... some of those younger guys •~ along--that's our primary 
.. -v• 

ATTENTION ALL GRADUATE STUDENTS 
OOJEIELr LriEJIE CCANWIIWALrJE~ fi®lf IL~~~ ..~® CG~UJ !Plf~~ncdl~mll &mcdl Vilct~ ..IPlf~~ilcdl~mtl 
7:00 p.m. 
Today 

Cushing Engineering Auditorium 
·There will be brief presentations by the candidates, followed by an 
·~ 
open question & answer forum. 
·The new President and Vice President will be elected by your departmental representatives at the Graduate Council Meeting on March 21st. 
GIVE YOUR INPUT AND DECIDE THE DIRECTION OF THE GSU ~· 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's Bookstore Basketball late registration and signups are Tuesday, March 21, from 6 to 8 p.m., in the lobby of Haggar Hall at Saint Mary's. Times and lo­cation will be announced. There is a $5 registration fee. Any questions should be directed to Nancy at x3487 or Julie at x2667. -The Observer 
The Squash Club will sponsor the Insilco tournament Monday through Wednesday, March 20-22, in the Joyce ACC. A $5 entry fee includes t-shirt. Registration ends Friday, March 17 in the NVA office. -The Observer 
SMC Intramural Volleyball captains' meeting will be Tuesday, March 21, at 4 p.m., in the Angela Lounge. Divisions will be women's and co-ree. Games will be played Sunday through Thursday nights from 8 to 11 p.m. -The Observer 
The Water Polo Club will hold a mandatory meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the Sorin Room at Lafortune. Plans will be discussed for the remainder of the spring and for next year's officers. For more information call Jay at 2303. 
-The Observer 
Season passesat Burke Memorial Golf Course are now available at $60 for students through fall orientation and $140 for staff ($190 family) through November 15. Call the golf shop at 239-6425 for more information. -The Ob­server 
Bengal Bouttournament tapes can be ordered Tuesday or Wednesday, March 21-22, from 7 to 9 p.m. in Lafortune under the Bengal Bouts poster. For more information, call Mike at x3386 or Doug at x1627. -The Observer 

Lenten Penance Service 
Tuesday, March 21st, 1989 !O:OOpm, Sacred Heart Church 
Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C., Presider 
+ 

Opportunity for individual oonfeuiona followin&' the ler"Vioe. 
P1eue alao DOte the time ofPenance Servicea in your own re~!dence halb. 

OFFICE OF 
~ 
... 

goal." ~-.... .... _,. .... ....,.. ....... .... ....... .......
-1'-......,~~....,~~_ .,_-...,..~-,_.-...,....,~'"''\jl\-o_,.JitJ-'"'\I''"'~-~-~-~--"""'-_,~ ... ...,.....,_.,_-..,....,."~..,...._-'\ll\-o_~--I'-->JitJ\li'--~1'--...I\IJ 
~---... --.. .. -.. • -­
.. 
-

---~~------­
------·-~----------------~---­
Monday, March 20, 1989 The Observer page 11 
Tennis team splits pair on road 
By DAVE McMAHON Sports Writer 
The men's tennis team split matches last Wednesday and Thursday while playing at Marquette and the University of Wisconsin. The Irish came away with their 13th win of the season against the Warriors before suffering their seventh loss the next day in Madison. 
Notre Dame proved to be in­vincible in the singles bracket at Marquette, as the top six players failed to lose a set. Dave DiLucia, Walter Dolhare, Ryan Wenger, Paul Odland, Dave Reiter, and John Silk all posted wins for the Irish. The lone Warrior victory came at number-two doubles in a three­set tiebreaker. 
Irish coach Bob Bayliss was pleased with the performance, considering the match was on the road. 
"It's tougher to win on the road in tennis than in other sports," said Bayliss. "The lighting and playing surface 
.., ......__,.... 

can have a great effect on a visiting team, but we handled it well." 
While Irish tennis is a pro­gram on the rise, Marquette had neither the quality players nor quality facilities that Notre Dame boasts. 
"The University has made a much bigger committment to tennis than they have, so we really felt that it was a match we should win," said Bayliss. 
Notre Dame faced a much stiffer test the following day, venturing to Madison to take on the Badgers, one of the top teams in the region. After shuf­fling the lineup because of an injury to Mike Wallace, who plays at number-one doubles, the Irish suffered a 6-3 defeat. But Bayliss would not use in­juries as an excuse. 
"We had to play with the hand we were dealt, and we just didn't play it good enough," said Bayliss. 
DiLucia extended his win streak to 15 after a 6-3, 6-4 win. The freshman standout im­proved to 16-4 in the spring season and 28-9 overall. Wenger, playing at number­four singles, lost his first set 3-6 before winning the last two 6-3, 7-5. The number one doubles team of DiLucia-Dolhare posted a 6-4, 6-2 win. 
Captain Brian Kalbas, suf­fering from an intense stomach pain, showed great effort before succumbing to his op­ponent. 
"He showed a tremendous amount of courage," said Bayliss. "He couldn't serve ef­fectively because of the pain, which took a lot out of his game." 
Notre Dame will have a few days to nurse the injuries before hosting Miami of Ohio Friday morning at 10:30. Nor­thern Illinois will test the Irish following the Miami match. In­diana State, which beat the Irish 6-3 and 7-2 last season, will wrap up the weekend fes­tivities with a match against Notre Dame on Saturday.· 
Juniors!_ 
ND downs Bonnies, splits against Duke 
Special to The Observer 

DURHAM, N.C.--The Notre Dame baseball team improved to 10-4 on the season with a victory over St. Bonaventure and a two­game split with Duke this weekend. 
Pitcher Erik Madsen im­proved to 3-0 on the season and Mike Coffey recorded the save as the Irish beat the host Blue Devils 5-4 in the first game Saturday. 
Dan Peltier went 4-for-5 with a double and a run scored and Ed Lund had two doubles to power Notre Dame's offense. 
The Irish jumped to a 1-0 lead in the first when Pat Pesavento walked, stole second, advanced to third on a wild throw, and scored on Pat Eiler's sacrifice fly. They added two in the second when Mike Mosier singled home Lund and Mike Coss, but Duke answered 
I 

We need your help in planning the senior class trip. If you plan on attending the trip over October Break, please fill out this questionaire and return it by campus mail to: JuniC?r Class 2nd Floor Lafortune 
~~For Fall Break 1989 there are home football games on both ends of break. Our options include: 
A. An 8 day/7night trip which would cause us to miss the Pitt game. 
B. A 6 day!5 night trip which would not interfere with the Pitt game. Please circle your preference: A orB 
If you have any questions please contact: Matt Breslin x1739 John MacQuarrie x1694 Michele Feick x41 09 Colleen Scanlan x4096 
APE YOUR FUTURE 
on Wednesday-March 22nd 
7:00p.m. 
Professor O'Meara will speak on a high university priority: The Development of Graduate Studies at Notre Dame 
with two unearned runs to make the score 3-2. 
Notre Dame scored again in the third when James Sass singled home Peltier, and made it 5-2 in the seventh when Duke second baseman Tony D'Ambrosio booted Sass' grounder, allowing Peltier to score. 
Saturday's second game against North Carolina A&T was called in the fourth in­ning because of rain with Notre Dame on top 2-0. 
After allowing the first two batters to score in Sun­day's first game, pitcher Mike Passilla shut down the Bonnies for 7 v.3 innings, al­lowing the Irish to come back for a 5-2 win. 
Duke got revenge in Sun­day's second game, blasting the Irish 8-2. Four Notre Dame errors helped the Blue Devils to build an 8-0 lead before Jason Martinez hit a two-run double in the ninth. 
Tourney 
continued from page 16 
eliminated. Radenbaugh won a preliminary match over Robert Symmans of Wisconsin­Lake Superior before losing to Ben Reichel of Tennessee­Chattanooga. Geneser won his preliminary match over G. T. Taylor of Arizona State and lost his second round match to Mike Amine of Michigan. In the con­solation bracket, Geneser won once and then was eliminated by Jason Morris of Syracuse. Neither wrestler placed in the final tournament standings. 
Boyd, who was wrestling in his first ever NCAA Tourna­ment, could do no wrong all the way into the semifinals. In the final four, he lost a tight match to the defending champion before being eliminated in the consolation bracket. His fifth­place finish was the highest since Golic in 1978. 
"Pat's performance, when you consider that he has never been to the NCAA's before, and that he was out for five weeks earlier in the season, was truly remarkable," said McCann. 
Durso made it all the way into the quarterfinals before losing his first match. He then went on to win in the consola­tion bracket and grab an eighth-place finish along with All-American honors. Durso finishes his career as the all­time winningest wrestler in Irish history with 127 wins. His roommate, Geneser, became the second winningest wrestler with his wins in the NCAA tournament. 

The future looks great for Notre Dame wrestling as it returns eight out of ten starters for next year, including Boyd who won hardship after his senior season. As goodbyes are said to the best ever in Durso and Geneser, one must also say hello to the exciting future of a new power in collegiate wrestling--Notre Dame. 
"This was an important tournament for us because people finally realized that we are for real," said an enthused McCann. "Notre Dame wres­tling is finally for real." 
----------~-----~----­
page 12 The Observer Monday, March 20, 1989 
NCAA TOURNAMENT 
Irish advance with win over Vanderbilt 
NO wears green uniforms in St. Patrick's Day victory 
By STEVE MEGARGEE one of the Commodores' three Associate Sports Editor three-pointers came in the final 20 minutes. 
PROVIDENCE, R.I.--Luck "We just planned on picking finally was with the Irish on a them up at halfcourt and at the St. Patrick's Day. pro line intead of the college 
It just took a little coopera­line because they'll shoot them tion. from anywhere," said Irish 
Entering Friday's first­point guard Tim Singleton, who round NCAA tournament game scored six points with seven as­with a 2-3 record in St. sists. Patrick's Day games, the Fredrick and Ellis took con­
trol of the game in the second half. Despite playing in obvious pain at times, Fredrick scored eight points in a two-and-a-half minute span to help the Irish take a 52-39 lead with 12: 30 left. Once the Notre Dame lead hit double figures, Ellis made sure Vanderbilt wouuld pull no closer. The freshman scored 13 points with 11 rebounds in the 
second half alone. 
"The gameplan was to try and get me the ball inside as much as possible, and if I
LaPhonso Ellis 

wasn't open for the shot, to kick Notre Dame basketball team it out to the guards," said Ellis. came out in solid green jerseys "I've said all year what the for the first time in nine years. team needed me to do, I'd The result was an 81-65 victory respond, and Keith Joe Fredrick battles for a loose ball with over Vanderbilt in East (Robinson), Jamere and Fred LaPhonso Ellis and Vanderbilt's Eric Reid Regional play at the Provi­just told me to get down and (center) and Frank Kornet (left) in Notre Dame's dence Civic Center. score." 
"We figured St. Pat's been "Ellis played well inside," 
Fredrick comes off bench to ignite Irish
down on us, so we had to make said Vanderbilt center Frank him happy," joked junior Joe Kornet, who scored 17 points. 
Fredrick about the uniforms, "He kept pounding the boards. By THERESA KELLY gone in the first half, Irish co­in double figures in three-point
which resembled the road wear As the game got later and later Sports Editor ach Digger Phelps put attempts, but got off only six of the NBA's Boston Celtics. and we were chasing them Fredrick in. About 20 seconds against the Irish, completing"We figured if we got green down, they played an excep­PROVIDENCE, R.I.--Every later he canned a three-pointer three. 
uniforms, maybe St. Pat would tional game." day for the past week,_ Joe from the left wing, looking like be on our side." Fredrick had been answering a man who had been in the "Notre Dame's preparation
With Keith Robinson adding

St. Patrick must have ben the question, "Are you going to game from the start and not took us out of the things we smiling down on Fredrick and eight boards, Notre Dame out­play?" like a man who hadn't prac­wanted to do," said Vanderbilt Irish forward LaPhonso Ellis, rebounded Vandy 39-24.. Shoot­"If I can jog, I'll play," ticed for a week. coach C.M. Newton. We're dis­who both played with injuries. ing just 41 percent in the second appointed that we didn't play
Fredrick answered. 

Fredrick, whose status was un­half (44 percent for the game), The Irish junior did more "At the NCAA's, you play if our best game, but Notre Dame certain with a sprained ankle, the Commodores had no than just jog Friday night in you can walk," said Vanderbilt had something to do with that.'' came off the bench to score a chance of coming back. Notre Dame's first round senior Barry Goheen, who was 
game-high 20 points. "We knew they were a good As the Irish looked ahead to
NCAA Tournament game on of the victims of Notre 
rebounding team, and they playing Georgetown, Fredrick
Ellis, playing with a disl­against Vanderbilt. He scored Dame's defense of the three­
proved it tonight," said was icing down his ankle,
from outside, he penetrated to point shot. "I'm not surprisedocated right index finger, 
Goheen, who led Vandy with 18 Fredrick but I am which bothered him but
the basket, he played defense played,stored 17 points with 18 

points and five rebounds. wouldn't keep him from
against Vanderbilt's three­surprised at how well herebounds, the highest total for 
"They played volleyball with it point shooters while canning played." playing.
any Irish player this season on a couple of times on their end. 

four of his own, pulled down "I've got two years to playthe boards. 
Against a good rebounding The second half was a mirror 
three robounds and dished our at Notre Dame, and I've got the 
"Ellis played like the LaP­team, you have to shoot good­image of the first, as Fredrick
three assists, all in the 19 rest of my life to rest my
honso Ellis we percentage shots, and we didn't came in with 15:27 to go and
all know and minutes of play that marked ankle," Fredrick said.
hit another three form the left 
have talked about," said Irish do that. his return to the court after a ·'There's no way I'm going to 
coach Digger Phelps. "He "Those of you who haven't one-week layoff. side, this time giving the Irish let this chance go by."
came out and played with super seen us didn't see a real Van­But Fredrick dished out a nine-point lead. intensity.'' derbilt team tonight." more than a few asssists. He "When I get in the game, I 
Friday's ResultsNotre Dame (21-8) started had acolades for Skip Meyer, feel as if I've been in the whole Notre Dame 81, Vanderbilt 65
Vanderbilt's loss ended the

quickly, jumping out to a 23-10 the basketball team's trainer, time," Fredrick said. "I saw Notre Dame (81)
coaching career of C.M. New­M FG-A 3P·A FT·A R F P
lead in the first 12 minutes. and LaPhonso Ellis, who their zone, and I saw that
ton. After posting a 509-375 Ellis 25 8-14 0-0 1-118 4 17
Jamere Jackson hit two three­played his best game of the Jamere was getting some Jackson 35 6-19 2-6 2-2 4 1 16
record in 32 years of coaching,

pointers during that time, season as the Irish beat the shots. The first time down the Robinson 32 3-6 0-0 2-4 8 1 8
Newton returns to his alma 

33 0-0 6
while Fredrick added five Commodores 81-65. court I was open, so I put it Singleton 2-2 2-2 2 4 
mater to become athletic direc­Bennett 26 3-5 0-0 2-2 1 2 8
points. Jackson finishd the "Skip Meyer came through up." Fredrick 19 4-4 0-2 3
8-12 2 20
tor at Kentucky.

game with 16 points. for me," Fredrick said. "He's Fredrick's ankle sprain oc­Tower 15 1-1 0-0 0-0 1 4 2 
Sweet 6 1-1 0-0 0-0 0 0 2
Vanderbilt (19-14) mounted a "I told Digger that if you the reason I could play. All cured in the last few minutes 
Paddock 7 1-2 0-0 0-0 1 1 2
comeback late in the first half have to end a career against week he said, 'If you listen to of practice Friday, March 10. Adkins 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 0 0as Fredrick and Ellis sat on the someone, I'd rather it be me, I'll get you ready for the Crawford 1 0-1 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 bench with two fouls each. The against a school like Notre tournament."' He did not travel with the team 33-63 6-10 9-133819 81 
Total FG percent-.524. 3-Pt percent.­
Commodores went on a 17-9 run Dame," Newton said. "Digger Although Fredrick was the to play DePaul, but instead 
.600. FT percent.-.692. Team rebounds-0. to end the half trailing just 34-stands for a quality, class uni­emotional leader as well as the stayed in the Notre Dame in­Turnovers-9. Assists-20 (Singleton 7. Jack­
30. versity. scoring leader for the Irish, his firmary nursing the ijnury. son 6). 
Vanderbilt (65)

Sharpshooting guard Barry contribution was matched by "I turned it twice in the F P
M FG-A 3P-A FT-A R
Goheen scored seven points IRISH ITEMS: Ellis had more that of Ellis, who was coming game, and it was bothering Booker 33 3-10 1-3 1-2 1 2 8 during this spurt. difficulty with the post-game off an injury of his own1 a com­me," Fredrick said. "But I Reid 32 2-4 0-0 3-3 1 2 7 
Kornet 33 8-14 0-0 1-5 4 4 17
Vandy closed the lead to two drug test than he had with Van­pound dislocation of h1s right knew a week ago I'd play. This 
Wilcox 38 4-10 1-2 0-0 2 3 9
when Barry "The Long derbilt's front line. He spent index finger. tournament is why you play Goheen 36 1-1 9-9 5
4-7 1 18 Ranger" Booker scored on over three hours producing an "Knowing be was hurt the college basketball." Mayes 9 0-1 0-0 0-0 4 1 0 Grant 7 0-0 0-0 0-020 0
Goheen's inbounds pass to open acceptable urine sample last two weeks," Fredrick said, In Fredrick's return to the 
Ballestra 8 1-4 0-0 2-2 2 0 4
the second half. before leaving the Civic Center "he really played with super in­lineup, he was a perfect four-of­Wheat 2 0-0 0-0 0-0110 
From then on, it was all at 3 a.m... All five tourna­tensity. Eighteen rebounds, four from three-point range, Benjamin 1 1-1 0-0 0-0 0 0 2 Milholland 0
misery for Vanderbilt's ment teams from the Southeas­that's unbelievable. It's and the completions marked a 1 0-1 0-0 0-0 0 0 
23-52 3-6 16-21 22 14 65
heralded long-range outside tern Conference lost in the first amazing that someone has the career high for a single game. 
Total FG percent-.442. 3-Pt percent­shooters. Goheen, Booker and round... Notre Dame last ability to do that." Perhaps more importantly, the .500. FT percent-_762. Team rebounds-0. 
Derrick Wilcox shot a com­wore solid green jerseys March Fredrick was amazing him­Irish defense shut down Van­Turnovers-10. Assists-12 (Wilcox 4). 
Halftime-Notre Dame 34, VanderbiH 30.
bined 6-of-19 in the second half 1, 1980, in a 62-54 win over self. Elmer Bennett started in derbilt's three-point attack. 
Officials-Ron letcher, Art MacDonald, Rich­(11-of-27 for the game). Only Dayton. his spot, but with nine minutes The Commodores usually are ard Lynch. Attendance-12,106. 



Monday, March 20, 1~8_9 page 13
--( The Observer 
NCAA TOURNAMENT 
NC State advances 
Associated Press 
Rodney Monroe scored a career-high 40 points to lead 
N.C. State to a 102-96 double overtime victory over Iowa in the East Regional. 
He had 11 in the second over­time and hit baskets that tied the score at the end of regula­tion and the first overtime. Monroe gave State the lead for good at 86-85 with a 3-pointer with 4: 00 left in the second overtime. 
UM 91, S. Alabama 82 
Glen Rice scored 36 points, and he and Terry Mills helped the Wolverines overcome a 57­51 deficit with four minutes gone in the second half, ending South Alabama's 11-game win­ning streak. Mills had 24 points. 
Missouri 108, Texas 89 
Doug Smith scored a career­high 32 points, and Missouri ad­vanced to the regional semi­finals for the first time since 1982. Missouri, 29-7, fell behind 25-20 but wore down the Lon­ghorns physically, outrebound­ing Texas 41-30. 
1st Round: 2nd Round: Reglonals March 16-17 March 18·19 ;:;rt1~ti!~~~~~!iiir!i1tJ!:: :IIIOYI£$T·.. i j illi!!'!!::;;;;,~;:r:: !! 
.1 ..................!:'''"'""''··· 
1~... M9N~~-"·~-1-···-·-·-::::·.-.7:::.::.. :.:. 
Pittsburgh Illinois 77-71
6 

;::::::::::::::~;:~~;~~···-·'······················ 
5·········-··--!\~ri.Siilll 
2 Syracuse 
;:~:::::::::::::·~~~~iil·~Y.'ll<:IJ~ ... 
6 Alabama Lexington, Kentucky ·····························] S. Alabama 86-84 March 23 & 25 
_1_1 ...~1Jth..~~IT1~ · · ··················J Michigan
3 Michigan ···········sf-elf 
-··-··-···-·-·-···-···-··· Michigan 92-8
-~4 ......l<a'lie_r~~:l························· !··-·-·-············· 
:i~~::::::::;~~~:~~~~]····-·---~-~~-~:?4]·-~....C:!':rolir!!': 
88-61 -~---,-·II!C?.r:t.I:I.Q;~r.C?!!~.~~ N. Carolina 93-79 
15 Southern ··-·-·-·-----·-·-·-···-··· 
------------------···-··· 
Reglonals 2nd Round: 1st Round: March 16-19 March 16-17 
@ftr=r~,,,,:~::::~::~~i:,,:,;~::::::::::t:;::::~::::::::::::f. :j:::::::~:::::::::;~:;~mij~~[li. 
North Carolina State 5 
1 
~:-~----~~~~~-~~-~-~~~:~;i~::::::::;:~ 

4 102-96 Iowa 67-73 ~-···-···-·······-·····---------·-· 
·.!<:.~!!!!!!.... Iowa 
-·---···-··--···---·-····· .F.I':I'~rll ...._..........--.1.~. 

East Rutherford, New JerMY Kansas Stat 6 March 24 & 26 Minnesota 66-75 {-················-~·-············
l'+'i~":''i'•:ih•'V+··I ~~i_nllfl~.~---··1··-···-·-·-···-·-·-·--·-;:::~---·--·--·-····1·: 
60-67 Siena 60-76 ~-···············-················· 
·---·-···-·······-···-··· ~-~----------·-·--··----~-~­L..----················· West Virginia 7
W. Virginia 84-66 ~-·······-·······-············--·-· 

[}IJ~e..?~~~---1·················-········ :~~-~---·-··---·---~-~ 
Duke 90-69 ~-································· .......................... ~~-g~~!i~~-;:!!: ...1.~ 
WEST 
Arizona 
16

Arizona 94-66 
St. Mary's , Cal~. 6 
··--····-·-···-·-6-·3·--·7·0····~~;.~~:::::::::::::::::::~ 
DePaul 66-63 ~~J?!:l~.~~-111 -········ ~ 
····JQ!!.I"I[I!,II_...........·-··--··!~ 
Nevada-Las Vegas 4 
•..........................,~::::::::::::::::::::::;~ 

Denver, Col0111do Oregon State 6 
March 23 & 25 Evansville 94-90 ~-········----·-··················· 
~·~·····1:::,,~:~~ ;; 
......... UTEP 65-74 ,I~~~~:~!:~~::::::::::? 
_n<li<ln_a~~~!lr·········-·······--····· ·;,::na!;t~t11 ......._!~
1 
1!~~~-~-~~:l!-~---·-·l~r~~;.~---··-:.:!~ 
AP Grapl1icl R. Dominguez 

Anderson's 24 keys Hoosi"ers over UTEP
Seton Hall 87, E'ville 73 
Associated Press having three of their starters took a bit of a chance ... but the ble but the guys off the bench 
Andrew Gaze hit a 3-pointer on the bench for much of the kid really came through for did a great job. That might that gave Seton Hall a 77-73 TUCSON, Ariz. --Even at half first half. us." have been the key to the lead, and Gerald Greene fol­strength, Indiana is an in­Indiana's Bob Knight, coach­Guard Joe Hillman, one of game." lowed with a layup as the timidating force in the NCAA ing his 700th collegiate game, three starters in early foul trou-UTEP coach Don Haskins, a Pirates reached the regional tournament. said Anderson's first half ble, said the difference was close friend of Knight, said the semifinals for the first time. Freshman Eric Anderson shooting was crucial. depth. Hoosiers thoroughly outplayed Evansville ran of 13 straight scored 24 points Sunday as the "We needed some offense "We played awfully well the Miners. points to pull within 74-73 Hoosiers crushed Texas-El and Eric is the best combina­today, especially the first 10 "Inside they had their way. before Gaze and Greene Paso 92-69 in the second round tion of our inside and outside minutes," Hillman said. "Then Outside they had their way," retaliated for Seton Hall, 28-6. of the West Regional despite players," Knight said. "We we got some guys in foul trou-Haskins said. 
Daryll Walker hit three layups and a dunk that helped mance did not exactly please layups. He also ended the game Thompson did not have to Seton Hall build a 74-60 lead Smith his coach. with a game-high .six assists worry about that happening in 
and seemingly put the game "I'd never seen him play a and three steals. the second half. And Smith away, but then Evansville's 3-continued from page 16 game the way he played in that Notre Dame alternated didn't have to bother wonder­point shooters took over. ach John Thompson to make an game-and-a-half," said Jamere Jackson and Tim ing what people in the stands 
unexpected phone call to his Thompson, referring to Singleton, the team's two best were saying after the game. UNC 88, UCLA 81 team's leader. Smith's play in Sunday's first defenders, on Smith, but noth­"That's something I don't half and the entire Princeton ing could stop him on Sunday. 
Sunday's Results

game. "When we got close to him,
Playing without the usually do," said Thompson, Georgetown 81, Notre Dame 74 suspended J .R. Reid, North who also coached Smith on the Thompson probably has not he'd run by, and we couldn't Notre Dame (74) 1984 U.S. Olympic Team. "I seen too many people play like get any help because we were M FG-A 3P-A FT-A R F P
Carolina overcame a 10-point 
Ellis 32 8-14 0-0 2-210 4 t8

UCLA lead in the first half and told him I'd rather lose with Smith did in Sunday's second worried about their inside Jackson 30 5-8 2-4 0-0 0 4 12 advanced to its ninth straight him making mistakes than win half. game," said Singleton. Robinson 30 2-8 0-0 2-2 3 4 6 
Final 16. The Tar Heels, 29-7, with him running around being Mter making an offbalance "Jamere and Tim are great Singleton 39 2-5 0-1 2-2 0 3 6 
Bennett 12 1-2 0-1 2-2 0 3 4

trailed 51-41late in the first half conservative. He was a little three-pointer at the buzzer to defensive players," said Irish Fredrick 30 4-8 2-2 6-6 3 4 16 and took their first lead of the too conservative in that bal­cut Notre Dame's halftime ad­guard Joe Fredrick. "Anytime Tower 16 1-2 0-0 0-1 2 1 2 second half when Kevin Mad­lgame." vantage to four points, Smith a guy scores 30 points on them, Sweet 11 4-7 0-0 2-2 4 2 10 
27-54 4-816-172225 74

For much of the first half hit a 17-footer early in the he's a great player." 
den made two free throws to Total FG percent.-.500. 3-Pt. percent.­make the score 76-75 with five against Notre Dame, Smith second half. The only person not handing .500. FT percent.-.941. Team rebounds-D. minutes left. Madden finished still did not look like the same He followed that with con­out post-game accolades to Turnovers-9. Assists-16 (Singleton 6). 
Technicals-none.

with a team-high 22 points. player who led Georgetown to secutive three-pointers from Smith was the All-American 
Georgetown (81) a Big East regular season and the same spot in the left corner himself. M FG-A 3P-A FT-A R F P 
tournament championship. He to give Georgetown a 46-44 lead "Everybody did an excellent Jackson 33 4-4 0-0 0-3 7 1 8
Syracuse 65, Colo. St. 50 Turner 17 1-2 0-0 0-0 2 2 2
scored just three points in the with 15: 17 left in the game. job," said Smith. "I've got to 
Mourning 37 4-5 0-0 9-12 4 1 17

first 19 minutes, and the Hoyas "I never really understood thank my teammates." Bryant 19 1-1 1-1 2-4 1 2 5Missing only one of 11 field again were on the tourna­when people talked about a Smith 36 10-14 4-610-11 1 1 34 
Tillmon 20 1-3 0--1 0-0 1 5 2

goal attempts, Stephen ment's list of endangered phoenix rising from the ashes,'' Thompson has heard all that 
Winston 26 3-4 0-0 3-4 2 1 9

Thompson scored 21 points and species. said Thompson, "but I saw that before. Mutombo 
7 1-1 0-0 0-0 2 1 2led Syracuse over Colorado "He was looking to create look in his eyes and said, 'He's "Charles gets too caught in Thompson 5 0-1 0-1 2-2 0 0 2 25-35 5-7 26-36 20 14 81
State. Syracuse, 29-7, led 38-28 scoring opportunies for his back, thank God.' " that company line, then he goes 
Total FG percent.-.714. 3-Pt. percent.­

on a basket by Herman Harried teammates, and that didn't Smith had just begun to on the court thinking it's an .714. FT percent.-.722. Team rebounds-1.with 15:24 to play. work," said Irish forward warm up. Mter connecting on equal opportunity sport," said Turnovers-12. Assists-12 (Smith 6). Technicals-none.
Jamere Jackson. the long-range jumpers, he was Thompson. "We're a good 
Halftime-Notre Dame 36, Georgetown 32'. 

IU 92, UTEP 69 Whatever strategy he may able to drive past any Notre team when he's not so demo­Officials-Donald Rutledge. Gordon Birk,have had, Smith's perfor-Dame defender to score easy cratic on the basketball court." Richard Ballesteros. Attendance-12,106. 
Freshman Eric Anderson scored 24 points and Indiana, the Hoyas from falling behind "I think our players did an Notre Dame finishes its playing mostly reserves, as the Irish defense hung tough, outstanding job," Phelps said. season at 21-9, while the Hoyas 
Irish
romped over Texas-El Paso. but his team scored six straight "It was a challenge to go after continue on to play North The Hoosiers, 27-7, seeking continued from page 16 points, five of them by Smith, Georgetown, since they're the Carolina State, a 102-96 double­their second trip in three years to take a nine-point lead with number-one seed, and we got a overtime winner over Iowa, in to the Final Four, scored the call. .. I'm not crying over it. 1:09 to play. The Irish could get lot of confidence playing them. the third round of the tourna­game's first seven points and I thought I was playing good no closer than the final score We have a chance again next ment in East Rutherford, New outscored the Miners 14-2 to defense, but he scored." of 81-74, hitting only one shot in year, and I just wish we could Jersey on Thursday. start the second half. Mourning's free throws kept the final five minutes. start practicing tomorrow." 
-------------------------------~--------·-----------·------------------------~ 
page 14 The Observer Monday, March 20, 1989 
ND overcomes sloppy doubles' play in victory 
By CHRIS COONEY Sports Writer 
Gutsy shot selection and gritty perseverance helped the Notre Dame women's tennis team rebound from some er­ratic doubles play to overcome Purdue on Sunday 6-3. 
The Irish were up 4-2 after the singles competition and all three doubles pairs had won their first sets. A victory seemed guaranteed at that point. The trouble began when all three duos dropped their second sets simultaneously. 
At the number-three spot, Kim Pacella and Natalie Illig were down 4-5, double match point, after splitting sets 6-0, 4­
6. In addition, Pacella had just injured her knee. Amazingly, the combination fought back and won the set 7-5 to clinch the team victory. 
Pacella was shocked that they came back to win and could not find a logical expla­nation for it. 
"I have no idea how we won that match," Pacella said. "After I hurt myself, I just con-
Waltrip wins 500-mile race 
Associated Press 
HAMPTON, Ga. --Darrell Waltrip outdueled Dale Earnhardt over the last nine laps Sunday to win the Motorcraft 500 NASCAR stock car race, giving him two vic­tories in three starts this season. 
The three-time Winston Cup champion, who opened the year by winning the Daytona 500, earned the 75th victory of his career by beating Earnhardt to centrated on getting my serves in and Natalie and I started playing smart. I think once we came back the other team got worried because they knew they had blown two match points." 
Pacella also remarked that looking down the court and noticing that her teammates were losing inspired her to not give up. 
"I knew Coach was counting on us winning and that the team needed it," Pacella com­mented. "That was in the back of my mind." 
Notre Dame's victory was the second of the weekend. The Irish trounced Western Illinois 9-0 on Saturday. The Westerners only won fifteen games off the entire Irish squad. 
"They definitely are not as strong as they used to be," commented Irish coach Mic­hele Gelfman. "Our girls played great, but WIU lost their best player and that has really hurt their line-up." 
Gelfman said that she was es­pecially pleased that the Irish 


the finish line by six-tenths ofR=========================tJ 
a second in a battle of Chev­rolet Monte Carlos. 
It appeared that Earnhardt, who is mired in a 12-race win­less streak, was on the way to a runaway until Geoff Bodine brought out the sixth and final caution flag just 15 laps from the end at Atlanta Interna­tional Raceway. 
Bodine was running third when he blew a tire heading into turn four on lap 313 and skidded sideways. Rick Wilson ran into Bodine's car and sent it spinning to the top of the banking and into the wall. Nei­ther driver was injured. 
Earnhardt and Waltrip pitted quickly, while NASCAR rookie Dick Trickle, the only other driver on the lead lap, remained on the 1.5-mile oval and took the lead. 
did not "play down" to the Westerners weaker level of play. 
"We have a tendency to lower our intensity to accom­modate the other team," Gelfman explained. "I think we made tremendous strides by not doing that Saturday. We needed a good warm-up for Purdue.". 
The victory over Purdue was especially sweet since the Boilermakers are ranked ahead of the 9-4 Irish regional­ly. 
"After losing some matches we dropped to seventh and Purdue is at five or six," Gelfman said. "This win proves that we can play with the best in the region and be effective against our Big 10 competition." 
Despite the success of the Irish, who have won five straight, Gelfman was not en­tirely pleased with the perfor­mance. 
"I'm really glad we won, but we had some problems with our doubles," Gelfman com­mented. "We didn't play as 
Jim 
& 
Sarah 

Congratulations on your E_ngagement!! 
Summer 
STORAGE 
RESERVATION 
CALL NOW I683-19591 
• 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

• 
APPROX 2V2.MILES NORTH US 31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALLDAY SUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 
P.O. BOX 100 NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
"BEST LITTLE STORE-HOUSE IN MlCHIANA" 

A umni-Senior CLUB Bartender Applications and Job Descriptions are now available at the Office of Student Activities, 3rd floor La Fortune. 
*Deadline for applications is April 7th 
sharp today as we usually do, but I think individually the girls played gutsy and stayed posi­tive." 
Gelman mentioned the num­ber one doubles duo of CeCe Cahill and Tracy Barton as es­pecially working hard to over­come a sub-par outing. 
"CeCe and Tracy did not play as well as they usually do," said Gelfman of the 15-2 tan­dem. "They were dowm 3-0 in the third set, then 4-3, then 5-4 and they stayed in it." 
The pair won 6-3, 3-6, 7-5. 
Gelfman worried after the singles that the Irish did not realize the Boilermakers strength at doubles. These fears were confirmed when Purdue began to "feed off of the pace" that Notre Dame put on the ball. 
Although the second doubles team of Katie Clark and Kristy Doran lost their three-set match, 6-4, 1-6, 1-6, Gelfman lauded the two for their out­standing singles play. Both girls had straight-set victories. 
"I especially have to give Kristy credit,'' Gelfman praised. "She was down 1-4 in both sets and could not get into a rhythm against her opponent. Kristy could have easily given up. I was pleased to see her show that kind of fight." 
Gelfman also commended Kim Pacella who lost only one game in her two singles matches this weekend. 
"Kim is on a hot streak, just playing great tennis," Gelfman said. 
Pacella commented that the team's trip to California over spring break helped her and the entire team gain confidence. 
"We got into a groove over break as we got used to win­ning," Pacella said. "We started to believe in ourselves. Personallly, I had been frustrated in January and February, but I've started playing my game and hitting with confidence." 
Both Gelfman and Pacella are hoping that the wins this weekend will help the Irish con­tinue to improve as they look to face the toughest part of their schedule in the coming weeks. 

Love 'Bug, 'Beefi f}(S. & C.P. 
~R~O~B~LE~M~; 
haveflights, tudent 
a St. Mar"i' s s urning the"i' ¢1 tudent and Chicago. A.ss k what 
A. Notre Da;,~are A-irport i_n ute of Easter br~~r~tn to catch at n}o"i' ever")' tnl~d the"i' use to ge both want to enortation shoU 
f trans.-7 t 
rnode o d to O'Hare. . nal A.irpor South Ben Michiana Reg\0 
a) car {light frotn 
~~su~tU·noN:. 
s clearl"i' rnake ¢ k" gcharge 
d par ln 

c· tolls an t answer· lution, 
C.t"i' trahlc, incorrec good so ld 
1 b"i' car an rn to be a h B nd cou 
traveling . "b" rna"i' see in Sout e A.nd whlle kind of dela"i' worse 'Vet, a ' b r that an'V O'Hare. Or, well, lets rernetn ~ . g {lights at d could rnean· .. ean rnlssln. S uth Ben . 
rn ll tion ln o . htrnare· . , Not on "i' 
ance a ld be a nlg \anons· 
c "i' it cou " " congratu f transporta· just s;f -you answere:o~~ reliable rn~:s~fare and the . \Jnited Lirno t~tealso oHers the_loal noint {or the lS O'Hare, 1 /arr\V "' l ·n no
tion to . nt departure \ This resu ts \ 
most convehn\ND Main Circeeth.e students' 
ts• t e . · n 01 
studen rnaxirnlzatlO 
hassles and 
enjo"i'rnent· 
---s:~ll'¥1\;;t1\0k• 

.Why learn this lesson the hard way? If you need to get to O'Hare, 
count on UNITED LIMO. We'll get you there. Call674·6993 for schedule and reservations. Or call your travel agent. 
United Limo 
We'll Get You There 
IMPORTANT: Due to limited seating, we request that you make reservations at least 24 hours in advance. 
.r---------------------------------­
Monday, March 20, 1989 
The Observer page 15 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 

CAMPUS 
5 p.m. High School Track Classic, Joyce ACC Fieldhouse. 
Admission $2 adults, $1 children. 7 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents "Juniors-­How to Plan an Effective Job Search," 127 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
7 p.m. Film "Some Like It Hot," Annenberg Auditorium. 
9:30p.m. Film "Chicago Maternity Center Story," Annen berg Auditorium. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
3:30 p.m. Innsbruck Program presents "Austria and the European Community: Looking Ahead to the Nineties," by Dr. Clemens Coreth, Austrian Consul General, ETS Auditorium, Center for Continuing Education. 
4 p.m. Kellogg Institute lecture "Alan Garcia's Economic Policies: The Heterodoxy that Curdled," by Daniel Schyd­lowsky, Boston University, Room 120 Law School. 
4:15p.m. English Department Ward-Phillips lectures "After the World View of the Nation-State: To Rewrite the Humaw The Humanities," by Sylvia Warner, Stanford University, Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
4:30 p.m. Biological Sciences seminar "Proteins Involved in Excitation-Contraction Coupling in Skeletal Muscle," by Dr. Susan Hamilton, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Room 283 Galvin Life Science Auditorium. 8 p.m. Pastoral Institute lecture "Martyrdom and Beyond: A Journey in Memory of Archbishop Romero," by Frances O'Gorman, Saint Paul University, Canada, Center for Con­tinuing Education. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 

Ham & Turkey Sandwich Baked Sole Top Round of Beef Eggplant Parmesan 
I 
COMICS 
I 
/"1'~/llf.(}. #fi<YOf.£. t;o/ A 1-/TTLt.. ~/. 
Calvin and Hobbes 

NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Hodges of 53 Johnny-, baseball guitarist from 
1 Units of elec. 
Miss.
26 Rare5 Apertures 57 Whim

29 Yearly records 10 Among 61 Melody
33 Priest's garment 

14 Lima is its 62 Flower part 
34 Rainbowcapital 65 Hero 
37 Exclusively15 Not concealed 66 Serene 
39 Borgnine-Mills

16 Prefix with 67 Monroe's co-star 
film: 1961

physics or thesis in "The Seven 43 One who detests 
11 Dutch cheese Year Itch" 44 Waistcoat
18 Subsequently 68 Tidings 19 Again 
45 Serling or 69 Individuals Steiger 
70 Prepared

20 Least bright 46 Tell 71 Strong wind 
22 "__ Leaves." 48 Assaults
1956film 51 Koppel or Turner
24 Suffix with major 
DOWN 

or kitchen 52 Break suddenly 
1 Mimicked 2 Middle: Comb. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
form 3 British baby's carriage 4Donna-, singer from Boston 5 Breed of cattle 

23 Armbones 40 Salt, in Sevres 53 City in Tex. 
6 Egg-shaped 25 Pants violently 41 Emulate W J. 54 Mashhad's locale 7Permit 26 Obi, e.g. Bryan 55 Where As wan a Before, in poesy 

27 Transparent 42 How some Dam is 9 Overexert 
28 Moderate music is 56 Scottish caps10 Amo, amas, composed
30 Hirt and Jolson 58 Thought47 More concise 31 River in France 59 Monk's hood11 Bill of fare 32 High-hat 49 Siesta so Otherwise

12 Article 35 Wandered 50 Elasticity 13 Daybreak 36 Bowstring hemp 52 Burn with hot 63 Female sheep 
21 Useful abbr. 38 Finishes liquid 64 Pod occupant 
The Far Side Gary Larson 
fl/a:J I~ 7lb ~ Pel?. eN£. 
7fR£. I ti/1{£ 711£ o,o,y 2 51'ARS. 1.1/IAIIS 11/t$? 6R££N /l:.J:.R! NO CN£. I..NifJUJ
( 
Ill/ VAIL! 3:( 5TN<S. 
l 


C 1981 Chrontcle Features Dtstnbuted by Untversal Press Syndicate 




"Dear Henry: Where were you? We waited and 
771AT.5 WI{Aj I cALL 

waited but finally decided that .... " 
IR£ Lu:.!<. OF 71{£ /R./5/1. 
Bill Watterson 
ChronicteFeaturet 
Universal Preas Syndicate

~I) '(C)J ~f>..'MT Ta\D NE 
~® \f I'M STt>.'i\1'\G-~E. 

Ta GET C\.EANED UP, S::l 
1\-\"'T MEAAS 'tl\J'Vt. .OOT\EN. 

m..T M£~5 I'M ST"''(mG 
ME ~ 13A8'< SinER, R \Gill? \-lOME., R\G\\P 
A~D TI\1\T MEt>,l·-1'3 Yo.J'IJE 
~BL'I \-\IRED RIJSALYN,
I 
R\GI-\i?! 
1/VV!_ 
I -~ 
~ ~ ~ 

~---~q -:;,--=---------...J 
... BESIOCS T\\E 
BlOOO-C\JRDL\~G ~P..R cr IT'S lo'oM ... 
\ 


-

"Andrew! So that's where you've been! And good heavens! ... There's my old hairbrush, too!" 
Sports
page 16 Monday, March 20, 1989 
Georgetown eliminates Notre Dame, 81-74 
Hoyas control second half Smith's 34 with 88 percent shooting keys victory 
By THERESA KELLY the Irish up 26-23. With two By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Editor ' minutes to play in the half, Associate Sports Editor Fredrick canned another 
PROVIDENCE, R.I.--The three, this from the right PROVIDENCE, R.I.--Notre Notre Dame basketball team baseline, putting the Irish up Dame had one too many fans couldn't win the war against 34-27 and bringing the Notre at the Providence Civic Center top-seed Georgetown Sunday, Dame fans at the Provjdence Sunday. ending the "Battle to Seattle" (R.I.) Civic Center to life. As Georgetown came onto with an 81-74loss in the second The Irish took a 36-29 lead on the court for the second half round of the NCAA Tourna­a Keith Robinson dunk off a trailing the underdog Irish 36­ment. Singleton steal with nine 32, the shouts of one person 
Charles Smith, the Hoyas' seconds to go, but Smith hit a drowned out a capacity crowd 
senior guard, was unstoppable, three-pointer at the buzzer to of 12,106 for Hoya guard bring Georgetown to within Charles Smith. four at the half, 36-32.
INSIDE "Someone out there said I
"I thought we played very,
Irish down Vandy, page 13 was overrated," said the 6-1
very well in the first half," senior guard. "Every time I
Fredrick stars, page 13 Phelps said, "by making sure 
scored, that's what I thought-­
NCAA wrapup, page 12 we controlled the game tempo, 'l'm overrated, I'm overrated.'
making sure we did an excel­
Sutton resigns, page 9 
" 

lent job of making it go the Smith had plenty of opportu­right way for our game plan.
scoring 34 points on 10-of-14 nities to think that in the second shooting from the floor and 10-"We wanted to spread it out half. The Big East Player of of-12 from the free throw stripe. as much as possible, look for the Year scored 28 of his game­Alonzo Mourning, Geor­the penetration but look for the high 34 points in the final 20 getown's freshman sensation, good shot, attack the press. But minutes to rally the Hoyas to added 17 points. as usual, I think the second an 81-74 victory in the second 
"As Smith plays, Geor­half, Smith just took the game round of the NCAA East getown plays," said Irish head over." Regional. coach Digger Phelps. "He took But it was Notre Dame's During that second half, charge when it counted." LaPhonso Ellis who took over Smith shot 8-of-9 from the field, 
"We didn't play here as well in the early moments of the including a perfect 3-of-3 from as we wanted," said Geor­half, when things still looked three-point range, and 8-of-8 getown coach John Thompson. bright for the Irish. Ellis scored from the foul line. "I saw a lot of good things the first eight Irish points in the "As Smith plays, about Notre Dame. I said to the half, trading shots with the (Georgetown) plays," said guys after the game, 'you beat Hoy as. Notre Dame coach Digger a good team."' Then Smith took over, much in the game, holding the three-point play," Phelps said, Phelps. "Today he took over 
In the first half, the Irish out­scoring 28 points in the second lead with 10 minutes to play "with Mourning inside. I when it counted." played the Hoyas, who were half, missing only one of nine before Mourning and Smith led thought Ellis had position, went In Georgetown's first-round ranked second in the nation at shots. As a team, the Hoyas an 11-4 run to take a 66-61lead. straight up, and I thought he game Friday against Prince­the end of the season. The lead shot an amazing 87.5 percent in The key to the run, and the got hooked, and the three-point ton, things did not go too well changed hands several times in the second half and 71.4 for the key play in the game according turnaround really turned this for Smith or the rest of the the first half, but with the game. to Phelps, was when, with 9:37 game." Hoyas. With Smith shooting 2­Hoyas leading 23-20 with 6:05 The Hoyas were clicking on to go, Mourning hit a shot in "I was playing post defense of-12 from the field, Geor­to play, Jamere Jackson hit a all cylinders, hitting 18-of-23 the paint over Ellis and Robin­on him inside," Ellis said. "It getown escaped with a 50-49 three-point basket from the top free throws and all of the three­son, drew the foul from Ellis was pretty physical inside. It win. of the key, and after a Hoy a point baskets they tried. and completed the three-point was a controversial That caused Georgetown co-

turnover, fellow co-captain Joe Despite the Georgetown sta­play. Fredrick did the same, putting tistics, the Irish were still very "I thought the key was the 
Secondary looks impressive 
By FRANK PASTOR The Irish are solid at the cor­"George had a great year for Assistant Sports Editor nerback spots, returning two of us," said Heater. "When a guy the top corners in the country. has a great year for you, you 
Quarterback Tony Rice out­Todd Lyght and Stan Smagala want to make sure you have played some of the finest sig­can go head-to-head with someone who can give you as nalcallers in the country last nearly any other cornerback good a performance." season in leading Notre Dame tandem in the nation. Francisco will be counted on to its first national title in Senior Pat Terrell also to replace Streeter at strong eleven years. returns at safety and looms as safety. Francisco is switching 
But there is another side to a potential pro prospect. Only from the cornerback position that story. safeties George Streeter and where he started two games for For it was the defensive sec­Corny Southall are missing in the Irish last season. 
I 
ondary which was responsible the secondary, but fifth-year Unfortunately, Francisco's senior D' Juan Francisco should departure from the corner ease into Streeter's strong leaves an inexperienced, albeit 
SPRING • safety spot after spending the talented pool of converted of­FOOTBALL past few years at cornerback. fensive players from which to construct a second team.
PRACTICE "The kids that played a lot "What I'm worried about isof football for us last year ob­
r depth," said Heater. "I think
I for stopping Reisman candi­viously are the four that are 
I r we've got four regular players,
dates Rodney Peete and Major playing," said Irish secondary and from there on I think we've Harris in their respective coach Chuck Heater. "Lyght, got to develop a good secondmeetings with the Irish, as well Francisco, Terrell and line of players. We've got to as providing some of the most Smagala--and all of that have at least six players andmemorable moments of the carries back over to the Fiesta we'd like to come out of spring season Bowl last year. They're doing football with eight if we can.
As Notre Dame moves into things better and with more Our goal is to get those players 
its second week of spring prac­confidence and more aware­who have played a lot for us atice, the defensive secondary ness certainly than a year ago, lot better and then to make surelooks to be one of its biggest so there's a carryover from last we develop some depth."
-assets in the coming season. year." The Irish return three starters Heater admits the Irish will Sophomores George Poor­
from last year's squad and ex­miss Streeter's presence on the man, Shawn Davis and Rod pect contributions from a num­field. Streeter was a starter for Smith, and junior Greg Davis ber of recent converts from the three years in the Irish second­
see IRISH, page 13 see SMITH, page 13 
Wrestlers turn heads in NCAA tournament 
By GREG complished this year," said SCHECKENBACH coach Fran McCann. "We Sports Writer achieved all of the goals that we set for ourselves, and as 
Many times in life, happy a team, went further then endings are possible. They any other Notre Dame team may only come few and far has gone before." between, but when they do Oklahoma State come, we must cherish dominated the field of com­them. petitors in winning the 
That is exactly what the NCAA championship with a Notre Dame wrestling team total of 91.25 points. The is doing after their success­runner-up, Arizona State, ful outing in the NCAA finished with 70.50 points Tournament this weekend. while Notre Dame compiled The Irish finished 21st be­only 19 points. Perennial hind the performances of champ Iowa ended up sixth Seniors Jerry Durso and Pat with a total of 52.50 points, Boyd. which is the lowest for them 
The 21st-place finish is the in over a decade. second highest in the history On an individual basis, of the program and the best Notre Dame did quite well in over ten years for Notre with two wrestlers earning 
, Dame. Way back in the 1977-All-American status. Boyd 78 season, the Irish finished finished fifth and Durso won 18th when Bob Golic won eighth where the top eight 
· third place in the finishers earn All-American Heavyweight division. Last honors. year, the Irish ended the Chris Geneser and Andy ·season with a 37th-place Radenbaugh also brought finish in the NCAA's. home wins before being "We really have to be pleased with what we ac-see TOURNEY, page 11 
offense. ary. see DEFENSE, page 10 








