
VOL. XXIII NO.5 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1989 . THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

PTL trial suspended, Bakker committed 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -Jim Bakker was committed to a mental institution in handcuffs and leg shackles Thursday after a psychiatrist reported the TV evangelist was halluci­nating and cowering in a fetal position in his lawyer's office. 
U.S. District Judge Robert Potter suspended Bakker's fraud trial and ordered him to the Federal Correctional Institute in Butner for up to 60 days for psychiatric evaluation to determine whether he is competent to stand trial. 
"Please don't do this to me," a sobbing, disheveled Bakker said as he was led from his lawyer's office by U.S. marshals to the courthouse for processing of the commitment order. He curled up in a fetal position in the back seat. 
"Mr. Bakker, I'm going to have to ask you to sit up, please," a deputy marshal said. 
After the paperwork was completed, Bakker, bound hand and foot, was taken to Butner to spend his first night behind bars since the PTL scandal broke. The ,evangelist is ac­cused of fleecing followers of his evangelical empire. 
He was lying in the back seat of a marshal's car when he ar­rived, and a marshal held him on each side as he walked in a slow, stooped shuffle into the prison. 
Dr. Basil Jackson, a psychia­trist who has been treating Bakker for nine months, told the judge that Bakker began hallucinating Wednesday after a former PTL executive testify­ing against him collapsed on 
see BAKKER I page 5 

Colombia needs U.S. aid 
By SARAH VOIGT Senior Staff Reporter 
Father Robert Pelton, director of Notre Dame's Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry, believes that the United States should of­fer aid to President Virgilio Barco's crusade against the drug barons in Colombia in the form of economic sanc­tions and educational pro­grams.
Pelton, who has visited South America 15 times in the last five years, rejects di­rect U.S. military interfer­ence as a viable way to fight the powerful drug barons in Colombia. 
Pelton cites previous U.S. foreign policy blunders as support for his stance. He said, "If you move in with immediate military control, all you get is greater vio­lence. Some people would be happy to move in [to Colombia] with Marines. But in reality, a long term edu­cation process is all that can 
NEWS ANALYSIS 
be used to help bring about change." 
Pelton, a Holy Cross priest, was a missionary in Santiago for eight years and has worked on Church mis­sions in Peru, Colombia and Bolivia many times since then. This past summer Pelton visited Medellin, where he spent some time with the family of his friend Alvaro Villa, who was kid­napped July 7 and has not yet been released 
Pelton suspects that his friend was kidnapped by common delinquents. Pelton explains, "I was very aware of the violence when I was in Medellin. There are so many kidnapings going on now that the authorities have stopped recording them. " 
Villa, an agronomist who has spent the last thirty years educating the peasants about better agricultural methods, seems an unlikely target for a kidnapping. His disappearance is another tragic event that can be added to the chaotic se­quence of crimes that have plagued Colombia the last few months. 
According to Pelton, Colombia's economic prob­lems are at the root of its drug situation. What Pelton refers to as,"the bad eco­nomic conditions and en­demic underdevelopment of third world countries" en­able the drug barons to ma­nipulate the peasants into growing crops of illegal drugs. 
Pelton said that the U.S. needs to -help the peasants find other crops besides drugs that they could grow and still make a good liveli­hood. This would undermine the power of the drug barons and indirectly help stop the flow of illegal drugs into the U.S. 
see COLOMBIA 1 page 5 
University to build graduate student housing complex 
By MICHAEL SCHOLL News Staff 
Notre Dame is now in the preliminary stages of develop­ing a 200-apartment housing complex for graduate students. 
The proposed development, to be located north of the O'Hara­Grace Graduate housing com­plex, will be comprised of 33 two-story units, with each unit containing six two bedroom apartments. A community cen­ter will be included in the com­plex, which is designed to house approximately 400 students. 
According to a press release, the complex will be partially underwritten by Notre Dame alumnus Charles Fischer of Fort Worth, Texas. Fischer re­ceived his engineering degree from Notre Dame in 1949 and an M.B.A. from Stanford University in 1952. 
He is currently president and chairman of the board of the Harbison-Fischer Manufact­uring Company, which is the world's leading manufacturer of subsurface oil well pumps. Fischer also serves on the Advisory Council for the College of Engineering. His son, Ken, is a 1988 graduate of the University, and another son, David, graduated last May. A daughter, Teresa, is currently a senior at Notre Dame. 
According to Thomas Mason, the University's vice president for business affairs, Fischer will donate $5 million to the estimated $12 million project. The balance of the money needed for construction is scheduled to be raised through loans that will be paid back with the rent money paid by the students who will live in the complex. 
Mason said that rents for the complex "would be competitive with rents charged for other apartments in the local area.n Rents for two bedroom apart­ments near the Notre Dame campus average approximately $450 a month. 
University President Father 
see HOUSING I page 4 
WORLD WAR II: 50 YEARS LATER 
50 years later Germany reflects on the horrors of WW II 
Associated Press 
FRANKFURT, West Germany -World War II began 50 years ago today. One of many events marking the grim anniversary will be a concert in Warsaw, the first target of blitzkrieg, Adolf Hitler's fearsome "lightning war." 
The Soviet Union called the conflict "the most horrible and destructive of all wars." An ul­tra-conservative West German Cabinet minister said Germans should not bear all the blame. 
More than 50 million people were killed in the war touched off by the German invasion of Poland on Sept. 1, 1939. The Nazi extermination of 6 million Jews shocked the world like no other atrocity. 
Major events are scheduled for Friday in West Germany, East Germany and Poland, in· eluding an internationally broadcast concert in Warsaw conducted by Leonard Bern­stein. 
Pope John Paul II used the occasion to declare: "We have a duty to learn from the past so that never again will there arise a set of factors capable of trig­gering a similar conflagration." 
In the statement issued last weekend, he called the Nazi slaughter of Jews something "which will forever remain a shame for humanity." 
John Paul is to address his 
Polish countrymen Friday evening by means of a huge television screen set up in Royal Castle Square in Warsaw's old city. 
Tass, the official Soviet news agency, said Thursday: "The sad jubilee -50 years since the beginning of the most horrible and destructive of all wars ­requires that the world public not only learn the lessons of the past anew, but also determine guidelines for the future." 
Its commentary repeated So­viet calls for a reduction of armed forces and weapons in Europe. 
Neues Deutschland, the offi­cial newspaper of East Ger­many's Communist Party, said: "The most important historical lesson of Sept. 1, 1939, consists of never again letting fascism return." 
In Hitler's native Austria, which he occupied and annexed in 1938 witho'ut firing a shot, the popular tabloid Kurier is running a daily series it calls "Hitler's War." 
"It scarcely ever happened in history that the responsibility for a war was so clear," the newspaper said Monday. "It was, in the end, the work of one man. It was Hitler's war." 
Austria has claimed to be the dictator's first victim. News media, politicians and intellectuals in West Germany 
have used the anniversary for a review of Nazi atrocities. 
Special events included a con­cert Thursday night jn Frank­furt featuring violinist Anne­Sophie Mutter and Polish com­poser Krzysztof Penderecki conducting his "Polish Re­quiem." 
As a gesture of );OCOnciliation, the government said it was willing to return the Polish Em­bassy in Berlin, seized by the Nazis in 1941, to Polish owner­ship. 
The far right in Germany has taken the opportunity to try to shift some of the blame. 
T~o Waigel, the federal fi­
see WAR .pages 
page 2 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
Oscar-winning actor Marlon Branda says he's made his last movie -and it's a dud. "It's horrible," he said of "The Freshman." "It's going to be a flop, but after this, I'm retiring. I'm so fed up. This picture, except for the Canadian crew, was an extremely unpleasant experience. I wish I hadn't finished with a stinker." Brando, 65, who has been shooting the movie in Canada. for the past 12 weeks, also told the Toronto Globe and Mail on Wednesday that he's fed up with kowtowing to the Hollywood publicity system, detests New York and adores Canada. "I've come from New York, which is a warthog straight from hell. To sing my swan song here is very pleasant," said Brando, who made his name in stage productions in the late 1940s and went on to such as movies as "On The Waterfront" and "The Godfather." "This is my last day," he said at the conclusion of the lunchtime interview as he was called back to the set. "Two more shots and I'm done with this madness ... You can't imagine how happy I 
am.'' 
A male nurse accused of having sex with a patient with multiple personality disorder while she was in a child per­sonality faces a Sept. 21 licensing hearing before the Utah Board of Nursing. Richard Heinecke faces two counts of unprofessional conduct . He faces possible loss of his license. Heinecke, a regis­tered nurse, is alleged to have been intimate with a patient admit­ted to the psychiatric unit of a Salt Lake Valley hospital in March 1988. Heinecke had sex with the woman while she was in the hos­pital, took her to his home after she was discharged, then moved with her into the home she shared with her husband, according to the petition. The husband subsequently discovered his wife in bed with the nurse, the division said. 
The Rolling Stones opened their first concert tour in eight years with fireworks and Mick Jagger's trademark strut as 50,000 fans jumped to their feet and began a night of dancing at their seats. The Stones launched their 29-city "Steel Wheels" tour with concerts at Veterans Stadium Thursday and Friday. Concertgoers paid $28.50 apiece for tickets, which sold out in two hours, 45 minutes. Scalpers were getting as much as $200 a ticket. 
The bears are back. Just ask Betty Klasnya. "I was sitting on my back steps, going through a bag of seeds for planting, when I felt something was out there looking at me," said Klasnya. The "something" was a 200-pound black bear in her back yard relish­ing the aroma of pork chops frying on the stove. She ran inside, replaced the pork chops with garlic and onions to encourage the bear's departure, clapped her hands and made a fuss until the 
f. 
animal sauntered back into the woods. ''I'm not going to fry pork chops or bacon till the bear season is over," she said. Since last week's encounter, police have received more than 20 reports of bear sightings around this Lake Superior city. 
Jerry Lewis says his loss of an unborn child has given him a new understanding of parents whose children die of muscular dys­trophy. "I thought I knew what I was talking about," Lewis said in an interview Wednesday, recalling years of dealing with parents of MD victims. Lewis has been national chairman of the Muscular Dystrophy Association for 40 years. The comedian's 21 1/2-hour, annual Jerry Lewis Labor Day Telethon begins at 9 p.m. EDT Sunday and will be carried on 200 TV stations in the United States and Canada. Last year's fund-raiser was watched by some 90 mil­lion people. 
More than 50 million useless urinalyses are performed each year with simple chemical "dipsticks" that cost more than $150 million and are unnecessary, medical researchers say. Two studies published in Friday's Journal of the American Medical Association found that dipstick urinalysis -the most commonly used urine test -is unjustified for healthy young men and women, though it may be useful for screening patients 60 years or older for unsuspected urinary problems. 


INDIANA BRIEFS 
The Indiana State Board of Health has declared a measles emergency in Lake County and plans to inoculate at least 20,000 students against the illness, officials said Thursday. The decision to go ahead with inoculations came as officials confirmed three cases of the viral disease and continued studies into several suspected incidents, said David McCarty, director of external ser­vices for the Indiana State Board of Health. McCarty said several factors were used in deciding where to inoculate including proxim­ity to Chicago, where 1,123 measles cases this summer have been reported to health officials. McCarty said the state has 20,000 doses of measles vaccine available and more would be secured if necessary. 

WEATHER 
Clearing 
A 70 percent chance of thunderstorms, clearing this afternoon. Highs around 80. Clearing and cooler tonight. Lows in the upper 50s. Mostly sunny and mild Saturday. Highs near 75. For the rest of the Labor Day 

weekend: fair and mild Sunday and Monday. Lows in the 50s. Highs in the 70s. 
Friday, September 1, 1989
The Observer 
Workers, punks and grandmas at the White Hen 
The first week back to school. A period when 
you spend at least 70 percent of the time rack­
ing what few brain cells are left in trying tli put 
names with the faces, and the other 30 percent 
asking the age-old questions, "How was your 
summer? What did you do?" (I admit I ask 
them also.) 
This was the first summer I actually liked my 
job. I've had it for three years, and have tried 
to finagle my way out of it since I started. But, 
since I too must make my annual contributions 
to the ND Bookstore, I had no choice but to go 
back to my job at White Hen. 
No, it's not a farm, and has nothing to do with eggs except for the fact that we sell them. White Hen (where the name comes from is way beyond me) is a convenience store, like 7-11. We sell everything from sandwiches to dog food, from baby food to bug killer. We are a one-stop shop kind of store. People run out to the store to buy just the items they needed immediately, like dog food and maple syrup, or doughnuts and mashed potatoes. Some very interesting combinations have passed by. 
The customers, though, are what made the job a lot of fun this year. We had many regular cus­tomers who would come in at least once a day, usually three or four times, for things like pop or coffee. I converted many to Irish fans, and, of course, I encountered many anti-Irish fans (those are the ones who didn't come in for days after we won down in Tempe). They made for some great arguments to add a little spice to my day. 
Some of these regulars are worth mentioning specifically, these being the construction work­ers. No land around my area was safe this summer from the rampant bulldozers and ce­ment trucks that scurried everywhere, and so at any given time of the day, at least two workers could be found hanging around the store. These guys should have a gender all their own: female, male, and construction workers. They would come in at 10 in the morning --just when most normal people are still enjoying doughnuts and coffee --and buy beer and beef jerkys. I felt sick just selling it to them. The same ones would be back at noon for a beer lunch, and again at 4 in the afternoon for their end-of-the-day case or three. And I thought guys here drank a lot?! Not even close. I don't think I'd feel too safe liv­ing in a house built by any of these guys. But they were always a lot of fun, even if they could turn a very innocent comment into proposition. 
I almost lost my mind with all the little kids that came in. Don't misunderstand, I love little kids, but not when they come in and dump about three dollars worth of small change on the counter and proceed inform me they do not know how to count. They have some kind of sixth sense that leads them to do this when no less than 10 people are in line behind them. These rug rats have one heck of an attitude, too. An "I'm ten, I know all" kind of mentality. Take this for example: after a certain suspi-


OF INTEREST 
Iceberg Debates chairperson needed. If interested in chairing the committee or in helping out, please contact Maeve O'Donovan at the Student Government Office on the second floor of LaFortune. 
Seniors going to Cancun must make their final payment by Monday, Sept. 4. If you have questions or want to sign up for the class trip to Mexico please call Michele Feick at 283­4109. 

'No, it's not a farm, and has nothing to do with eggs except for the fact that we sell them.' 
Colleen Cronin 
Assistant Accent Editor 
cious-acting trio had loitered in the store for over 10 minutes and managed to handle almost every item, I asked them to leave. They had the nerve to tell me that this is a free country and they can do what they want. After suppressing an urge to physically take them out of society right then and there, I informed them that since I was just a wee bit taller and older they had better leave real quick before they were in real trouble. 
What was a real stitch was the thirteen-year boy that tried --unsuccessfully I would like to add--to pick me up. Very scary. 
Many different types of people came in. There was "the dude" as we called him simply because no other name was appropriate. He did repair work for something like Joe's Air Conditioning, and had to wear one of those one-piece outfits in a horrible shade of green. But this guy ap­peared to enjoy wearing it, along with his cow­boy boots, and swoosh hair style (you know what kind I mean: it looks like he spent most of the morning with a blow dryer), and always walked and talked like God's gift to women. We always had to bite our tongues to hold back our laughter. 
The several ladies I worked with made the job even more fun. They were old enough to be ei­ther my mother or my grandmother, and yet were always pointing out prospective dates for me. and always managed to embarrass me until I turned bright red. 
I think the biggest kick was all the junior-high kids who came in attempting to buy cigarettes. The aghast and surprised looks on their faces when asked for ID was simply hysterical {they have to be 18). The classic case being a girl around 16 replying "They don't even card me at the bar!" Yeah, sure, and I'm on Social Secu­rity. 
The job wasn't all fun; there were certain drawbacks. Many of the workers came in with­out shirts and consequently cleared our sinuses for a couple hours. People wanting to buy beer and did not have a valid Illinois driver's license became very irate. Those are some interesting stories, but they are not printable. 
The way it looks I will probably be back over Christmas break for I'm sure I will have spent all my money by then. What's kind of scary is that I'm looking forward to it. Maybe I'll come back here with 13-year old boyfriend ... 
Campus Ministry announces a new schedule of Masses to be held in the Stepan Center due to the renovation of Sacred Heart Church. The weekend liturgies will include a Vigil Mass at 5 p.m. on Saturdays, and a 10 and 
11:45 a.m. on Sundays. Sunday Masses will also be held in the Crypt of Sacred Heart Church at 6, 7, 8, 9:30 and 11 a.m. 

~-------------------------------------------~ 
Ihe Obsenrer__= 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur· chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
The Observer is a member of The Assoctated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Design Editor .................... Joe Zadrozny Design Assitant ............... Cristina Ortiz Typesetters ..................... Mark Derwent .................................................... Chris Zaback News Editor ......................... Kelley T ulhill News Copy Editor....... Matt Gallagher Sports Copy Editor......... Greg Guffey Viewpoint Copy Editor. Dave Bruner Accent EdHor .............. Robyn Simmons Accent Designer ............ Brian Grunert Typists .................................... Sara Marley NO Day Editor .................... Sara Marley Photographer .....••............. Tom Hassett Ads Designer .............. Shannon Roach 


Friday, September 1, 1989 The Observer page 3 


By BRADLEY GALKO Staff Reporter 
By the end of this year, a new method will have been devel­oped to test an individual's sus­ceptibility to heart attack or stroke that is quick, more pre­cise, and more convenient than any present methods. 
The new test kit has been de­veloped by American Biogenetic Sciences, Inc. (ABS), a biotech­nology company founded in 1983 in collaboration with Notre Dame. 
"If things go as they should, we expect the kit to be finished around the end of this year," said ABS President Henry Nordhoff. He added, "We should have a test on the mar­ket in Europe and probably in the United States by the end of next year." 
The potential worldwide market could reach $500 mil­lion, according to a statement by ABS. 
The kit works by detecting the level of fibrinogen in a person's blood. According to a University news release, "Initial ABS research led to the devel­opment of a unique monoclonal antibody that targets fibrino­gen in a patient's blood. 
Fibrinogen is the precursor to fibrin, the main component of blood clots, which cause heart attacks and strokes by blocking the flow of blood to the heart and brain." 
An elevated fibrinogen level has been identified as one of the major risk factors to devel­oping coronary artery disease. "It (fibrinogen level) is a marker," said Nordhoff, "a more important indicator for coronary artery disease than smoking, obesity, ... second only to elevated blood pres­sure." 
The finished kit will have two forms, said Nordhoff, a five minute test to gauge if a patient has high levels of fibrinogen and a second quantifying test that would take about an hour to measure the levels of fib­rinogen in the blood. 
Nordhoff estimated that the five-minute version, which can be performed in a doctor's of­fice or hospital bedside, will cost three to five dollars. The longer version, performed in a lab, will cost the patient one to two dollars, he said. 
Because blood is drawn out of the patient, said Nordhoff, the test has no side effects. "(That is) one of the reasons the approval is so swift," he added. Nordhoff estimates the FDA approval time at an un­commonly short three months. 
The kit is expected to be pro­duced in conjunction with Biotrin Research, affiliated with of Dublin. 
Ireland. "The two companies are likely to sign manufacturing and distribution agreements that will result in the kit being manufactured in Ireland," the news release said. 
Labor in Ireland is both good and relatively inexpensive, grants can be obtained from the Irish Development Authority, and imports to Europe and their revenues would be tariff and tax free, said Nordhoff. 
Nordhoff estimated that about half of ABS's 20 full and part-time scientists are dedi­cated to monoclonal antibody research. Research is per­formed at the Reynier's Germ­free Life Building on the north end of campus. 
This diagnostic test is the first of two antibodies ABS hopes to develop for the diag­nosis and treatment of cardio­vascular disease. In addition to the fibrinogen antibody, desig­nated 45J, ABS is working on the development of another an­tibody, MH-1, to detect blood clots on X-rays with a potential world wide market of $600 million. 
MH-1 could also be used to carry clot dissolving drugs to the site of.a clot. The worldwide market for this field is expected to reach $1.7 billion by 1990, 
to ABS statements. 
Walsh receives 1989 Grace Scholarship 
By CRISTINA ORTIZ Walsh, who is from News staff Beaumont, Texas, plans to ma­jor in Liberal Arts and eventu­
Catherine Walsh, a freshman ally pursue a career in law. In 
at Saint Mary's College, is one high school she was involved in 
of ten students from an appli­various activities such as the 
cant pool of 120 students to re­
Latin club, drill team and the­ceive a 1989 Grace Foundation ater. She also graduated in the 
Scholarship. 
top quarter of her class. 
The scholarship is named after J. Peter Grace, chairman and chief executive of W. R. To some extent she attributes Grace & Co. This award was her success to her philosophy given as part of a new scholar­of life, "Always appear positive, ship program set up by the even though you may feel nega­Grace Foundation and made tive, because in the long run it available to the children of em­works out." ployees. Recipients are chosen on the basis of their high The Grace scholarship may be school records and personal renewed for three additional achievements. years of schooling. 
160 killed in clashes this month in Istanbul, Turkey 
said at least nine ethnic Turks
Associated Press 
died in clashes with security 
forces in northern Bulgaria. 
ISTANBUL, Turkey -A Diplomats put the number of leader of ethnic Turkish immi­deaths in May at 30 or more. grants from Bulgaria claimed Like the Pomaks, the ethnic Thursday that 160 people have Turks say they were victims of been killed in clashes this a forced assimilation cam­month between Bulgarian secu­paign. rity forces and the Moslem Po­The sudden emigration has mak minority. left Bulgaria facing an acute 
Mehmet Cavus, head of the labor shortage. Last month, Association for Culture and special regulations empowered Solidarity of Balkan Turks, told authorities to draft labor from a news conference hundreds of towns to harvest the fields. Pomaks have been killed in Turkey also is affected by the fighting in northern and south­exodus -Europe's largest ern Bulgaria, and thousands refugee problem since the end have been imprisoned. of World War II -and two 
In New York, the United Na­weeks said it was closing its tions announced Thursday it border to stem the flow. has sent a team to investigate Early in August, 92 Pomaks charges that Bulgaria has ex­from northern Bulgaria signed pelled more than 250,000 a statement protesting that the members of its Turkish minor­Interior Ministry had refused to ity in the past three months. give them travel documents. The team will visit Turkey and They reportedly were told 
Bulgaria. they are not included in re­
In Istanbul, Cavus said his forms allowing all Bulgarians reports on alleged killings came to travel abroad. from sources in Bulgaria. He U.N. spokeswoman Nadia declined to identify them fur­Younes said Secretary-General ther, saying he did not want to Javier Perez de Cuellar has been endanger them. in touch with leaders of Bul­
Last week, Bulgaria denied a garia and Turkey. report quoting diplomats in "He did send a team headed ' Sofia as saying 15 people had by James Jonah, the head of the 
been killed in fighting between Office of Research and the Col­security forces and Pomaks -lection of Information, to go to a Bulgarian Moslem ethnic the area to ascertain the facts group numbering about and report back to him," she 
200,000. said. 
President Bush recalled U.S. Jonah is an assistant secre­Ambassador Sol Polansky from tary-general whose office Bulgaria to protest the alleged sometimes is called "the secre­human rights abuses. tary-general's foreign min­
Cavus said the latest violence istry." It was formed in 1987 occurred after Pomaks held and collects information on sit­rallies to protest the uations that could threaten 
government's refusal to give peace and security. them passports to emigrate. For five years, Bulgaria has 
The Pomaks had hoped to been trying to assimilate its 1 
follow at least 310,000 ethnics million ethnic Turks by denying 
Turks living in Bulgaria who their identity as a minority and 
have received passports and forcing them to give up Islamic crossed to Turkey since May, names. Bulgaria's population is when communist authorities about 9 million. 

LET US TAKE YOU 
BACK TO THE 50's 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Department of Communication & Theatre
,,.., 

The best Burgers, 
ANNOUNCES OPEN AUDITIONS 

Fries and Shakes In 
For the ND/SMC procuction of Anton Chekhov'sFood Michiana. 

THREE SISTERS directed by RobertaN. Rude Bill Hailey, Chuclt Berry, 
ter!lear ••• ,,..,
;.. wuc:~:jar wdtlYI 
Brenda Lee and many 
Thurs. & Fri. Aug. 31 & Sept. 1lluslt: more favorites on our O'Laughlin Auditorium 

Mon.-Thur. 1 0:30 to 9:00 old fashion juke box. 
7:30-10:30 p.m. 

Fri. & Sat. 1 0:30 to 1 0:00 A decor that will SUIL HRS. 10:30 to 1:00 
make you 1eel 

For information and audition time call 284-4640. you're really there 
Carry outs available 271-8547 
AUDITIONS

ladlan RW&e Piau. 5928 lnpe ... 
Friday, September 1, 1989

page 4 
Protestors from the Moldavian majority protest in Kishinev, the capital of Moldavia Tuesday as leaders in the southern republic of the Soviet Union considered a watered-down version of legislation which would make Moldavian the official language there. Ethnic minorities in the republic are outraged over the issue while Moldavians fully support the legislation. 
Housing 
continued from page 1 
Edward Malloy praised the de­velopment as a step that "will go a long way in improving the quality of life for graduate and professional students at the University." 
Vietor Krebs, former presi­dent of Notre Dame's Graduate Student Union, also praised the proposed eomplex, saying that "graduate students have a great need for a place where students of different disciplines The Observer can interact with each other." 
No construction timetable An artists conception of one of the housing units scheduled to be built has yet been set for the devel­as part of the Fischer Graduate Student Housing Complex. Each unit opment, which will be known as will have six two-bedroom apartments the "Fischer Graduate Student Residence Complex." 
MARKET OPINION RESEARCH 
HIRING TELEPHONE INTERVIEWERS (No Sales) PART-TIME AND FULL-TIME POSITIONS 
Qualifications: type 25 WPM, enjoy talking with people, available for evenings and weekend shifts. No research experience needed, computer training included 
$4.25 -$12.00/hr. 
Apply Monday thru Friday 6pm -9 pm 121 S. Niles Ave. Emporium B . 2nd fl. 219-282-2754 

JUST WHEN YOU NEED IT 
The Navy has 530.000 or more 
to help you finish your last rwo 
yt·ars of college. 
The Naval Reserve Officers 
Tr.1ining Corps (NROTC) Two­
Year Scholarship Program can pay 
your tuition, textbooks and 
instructional fees, plus give you a 
monthly SlOO ta.x-free allowance 
during your last 20 months of 
rollege. 
Upon gr.1duation you'll be commissioned a Navy officer and enjoy the benefits and opponunities offered, such as 
JACC FIELDHOUSE 
advanced education in any of the Navy's high-tech fields. NROTC two-year scholarships 
7:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m.
arc highly competitive. Applications must be tumed in 
(Enter through Gate 3)
early in your sophomore year. For more infonnation, see or call: 
SPONSORED BY THE 
LT Dan Cochran 

STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
OFFICE, CENTER FO 
239-7274 

NAVY ROTC 
SOCIAL CONCERNS, 
You areTomorrow. You are the Navy. 
NON-VARSITY ATHEL TICS 
Thousands protest in streets of Moldavia 
tion of Moldavia from neigh­
Associated Press 
boring Romania in 1940 under 
the terms of the Nazi-Soviet 
MOSCQW -Thousands of non-aggression pact, which people in-the republic of Mol­also put the Baltic states under davia surged into the streets of Soviet control. its capital Thursday night to The legislators had been protest a legislative compro­seeking a compromise that mise that will keep the Russian would placate both Moldavian language a part of their every­nationalists and Russian immi­day life, activists said. grants. The Moldavians are 
Members of the southern re­trying to shed what they see as public's legislature voted to decades of infringement on substitute Moldavian -similar their rights. The Hussians 
to Homanian -for Hussian as feared they would be forced to 
the language of government learn Moldavian and went on and economic affairs. But they strike at 200 enterprises in ruled that both Russian and protest. Moldavian could be used in ev­Hepresentatives of both the eryday life. Moldavian People's Front and 
"The people are scandalized. the pro-Russian group Yedin­We need only one language," stvo said Wednesday they saw 
said Vasily Nestase of the pro­support for the compromise.Moldavian People's Front, speaking by telephone from The choice of language is an Kishinev, the capital. important issue for Soviets be­
Nestase estimated tens of cause many believe they were thousands of people took to the forced to adopt H ussian even streets outside the theater though their native tongues are where the deputies had met, vastly different and representand he played a tape recording their distinct cultural heritage. The legislature, or Supreme
hundredsof the shoutingof police masses.armedHewithsaid Soviet, gave the nationalists a clubs had formed a cordon clear-cut victory in two of its around the building. three decisions Thursday. 
"If this decision is not re­It declared Moldavian the 
versed, we will start a general state language, to be used in strike," he said. The next step, "political, economie, social and he said, is secession from the cultural affairs." Moldavia pre­Soviet Union. viously had no official lan­
are
"We not a legal part of guage, but Hussian was typi­the Soviet Union," he said, eally used in government and 
pointing to the Soviet annexa-commeree. 
#1 NOTRE DAME "FIGHTING IRISH" vs. #2 MIAMI "HIIIRICANES" 

THANKSGMNG FOOTBALL WEEKEND NOVEMBER 22-26, 1989 
COMPLETE PACKAGE INCLUDES 
• 
ROUNDTRIP TRANSPORTATION TO AIRPORT 

• 
ROUNDTRIP JET FliGHT TO MIAMI 

• 
4 NIGHTS AT THE LUXURIOUS SHAWNEE RESORT DIRECTLY ON BEAUTIFUL MIAMI BEACH 

• 
TRANSFERS TO THE "ORANGE BOWL" 

• 
NOTRE DAME VS. MIAMI GAME TICKET 

• 
GREAT AM~RICAN'S TOUR STAFF ON-LOCATION 

• 
ALL TAXES AND GRATUITIES INCLUDED 


TRIP PRICE: $435.00, quad occupancy. 
$150.00 Deposit to reserve your spot 
Contact the Student Activities Office: Notre Dame 239-7308 315 LaFortune Center Saint Mary's 284-4561 103 Haggar Center 
Visa and Mastercard accepted 
--------. 

Friday, September 1, 1989 The Observer 
page 5 

Pavarotti is banished from Chicago opera 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Tenor Luciano Pavarotti and his high C's have been banished from the Lyric Opera. where officials say they tired of hearing the same old song after he once again canceled his appearances for the season. 
"Lyric Opera is now unwilling to take the risk of one more cancellation by Mr. Pavarotti," said general director Ardis Krainik. "I'm very sad about this.... But I didn't have any choice. A lot of people have been very mad about his cancel­lations." 
The last straw came when Pavarotti, 53, canceled six per­formances as Cavaradossi in Puccini's "Tosca," scheduled at the Civic Opera House for late September and early October, citing an inflamed sciatic nerve, Miss Krainik said. 
Pavarotti has backed out of 
26 of his 41 scheduled perfor­
mances with the Lyric since 
1981, she said. 
Pavarotti's New York-based manager, }lerbert Breslin, said he spoke with the tenor Thurs­day at his home in Modena, Italy, and Pavarotti issued a statement saying that he agreed "there should be no fu­ture collaboration" with the Lyric. 
"It is true that most of the cancellations in my career have happened with the Lyric Opera of Chicago, so I understand very well the disappointment that they have," Pavarotti said. 
"I can say that if I am not good luck to the Lyric Opera of Chicago, then perhaps the Lyric Opera of Chicago is not good luck to me." 
Breslin said he considered Krainik's reaction "a little bit irrational." 


A group of wom~n wielding placards were stopped by police prior to being arrested, in downtown Cape T~~n. South Afnca, on Wednesday. The women emerged from a church and intended to march to the Bnt1~h Embassy to ask that Britain intercede in the South African government's stand on the recent de­tention of students and the three activists that are still being held. 
Bakker 
continued from page 1 
the stand. The witness was re­vived within seconds and said he was laid low by illness. 
"Mr. Bakker reported that when he left the courthouse Wednesday, suddenly people outside took on the form of frightening animals which he felt were intent on destroying him, attacking him and hurting him," Jackson said. 
Jackson said Bakker's condi-
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
:.:·::::·:·::-::·:·::-0· S··.···~·0:..~4:~:.:~:·:...:\.J.n.-Q..~·~·:. ::: .:Jo.n...::·::·::..::-::·::.::::-::..::-::·::·::·::·::..::-~..:..·:::::-:·..:...::·::-::·::-:·.:.--:·..>>>>
· · ··va~r..··v:·ol··t...,. ·f'-o\1~·#·· ·u···'l~:f ··· ··· ··· ··· ··· ··· ··· ··· ··· .....,....·................. 
Seniors, frustrated with typing your Career and Placement Profile Form? Let our trained profile form typists enter your information, print your profile form on a Laserwriter, and save your information on a disk for later changes if needed. Pay $6 for the initial entry of yo1:.1r information and 10¢ per copy of your profile form. Come to the Observer office, 3rd floor of LaFortune, 4-6 PM Sunday through Thursday, and get your job search off to an easy start! 

tion worsened overnight, even after he was given Xanax, an anti-depressant sedative. Bakker was not in court for the hearing. 
On Thursday morning, Bakker "was lying in the corner of his attorney's office with his head under a couch, hiding," Jackson said. "He was express­ing thoughts that someone was going to hurt him." 
"To put it in lay language, the man is stressed out," Jackson said later. 
Prosecution and defense lawyers are under court order not to discuss the trial outside of the courtroom. But during the hearing, Assistant U.S. Attorney Jerry Miller described the psychiatrist as a "hired gun." 
Former Assistant U.S. Attorney Mike Scofield said most pretrial psychiatric evalu­ations take about 45 days. But the judge told jurors -who 
War 
continued from page 1 nance minister, said he did not want to deny "one iota of Ger­man guilt" for the Nazi era and the war, but declared: "A one­sided view of history with the conclusion that only the Ger­mans are burdened with guilt would be unbearable and would were not told the reason for the suspension in the trial -to re­port back to court in a week. 
Bakker and other PTL execu­tives are accused of diverting for their own use more than $4 million of $158 million raised from followers who gave $1,000 for three nights' free lodging each year for life at the ministry's hotels. 
If convicted on all 24 counts, Bakker could be sentenced to 120 years in prison and fined $5 million. 
Bakker's wife, Tammy, told reporters her husband was very distressed by the collapse in the courtroom Wednesday of former PTL executive Steve Nelson, a prosecution witness. 
"I knew when I talked to Jim last night that he was in a ter­rible emotional trauma and I prayed with him and we agreed that we would trust the Lord," she said outside her home in Orlando, Fla. 
Waigel did not say who should share the guilt, but many on the far right claim So­viet dictator Josef Stalin also was responsible. The minister wrote in the latest issue of the Bayernkurier, party organ of his ultraconservative Christian Social Union. 
Franz Schoenhuber, leader of the extremist Republican Party, spoke of the "war guilt of the Soviets, who together with Hitler brought the people of Eastern Europe under their yoke"-a reference to the So­viet absorption of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania under a 1939 pact with Hitler. 
Schoenhuber said an interna­tional panel of historians should be appointed to reassess whether Germans alone were responsible for the war. 
Colombia 
continued from page 1 
Despite the widespread poverty and corrupted economy in these South American na­tions, Pelton has witnessed much hope among the country people. He said, "I have seen tremendous suffering, yet many of these people keep their spirit and their faith. I see a great need for the U.S. to improve the economic and social develop­ment of these countries." 
Newly Constructed Home near Notre Dame 
$84,900 
call Janice Hildabridle 233-6141 233-8883 

Love, Mom, Dad, & Erm 
I 



The Observer Friday, September 1, 1989

page 6 
E L 

Ticket Sale for Notre Dame & St. Mary's Student/Faculty/Staff will take place THIS SATURDAY AT 10:00 AM at ticket windows at Gate 3 of JACC. Limit 6 tickets per purchase. Valid ID required. 
No one may assemble before 7:00AM. Drawing for position in ticket line at 8:00 AM. Sale starts at 10:00 AM. Tickets also available thru Ticketmaster or Charge by Phone: 
1-800·284-3030 A;fit...PRODUCTION 


Friday, September 1, 1989 
The Observer page 7 
. c 
I.'..;,t.··. ·~" ·< 
-~ 

Sprucing up 
The Observer/Tom Hassett 

The Notre Dame campus is undergoing fall cleaning, in preparation for the horde of visitors which de­cends upon the campus during football season. Here, Dave Thibault works in front of Corby Hall. 
Welcome Baptist Students 
BAPTIST Student Union 

Bible Study -Fellowshi 
Jol• n 
Sept~mber 1989 T1me: 7pm Place: Bulla House 
UsI 

• Phone: Debbie 1-784-2078 
B I A.~i~:itr;J;,:til ,.. 
HALF .MI~Ii'SW'IM· 
rwa··MrtE.. Rt..JN·········..··········.,. 
.· > ..........•. ······ ·. > . 
SATURDAY SEPTer=t13.E~i'~ lil:',{i~Mi · sr.. JosERi~. t.:AK~ BE~c~····•···················· 
. · .. · .·. 
lNCLEMENg-WP A'1r l...n::o l*UJ:f't c;:ALL 239~51Q........... AM .( ) 
E. Germans allowed to leave for the West 
Associated Press 
BONN, West Germany ­Hungarian and West German officials have worked out a plan that will let up to 20,000 East Germans leave for the West over the next few days, government sources disclosed Thursday. 
West German Karsten Voigt, foreign affairs expert for the opposition Social Democrats, told reporters in Budapest se­nior Hungarian officials con­firmed to him they plan to let out all East Germans who want to leave for West Germany. 
"I assume that in a very short time East German citizens (in Hungary) who want to go to West Germany will be able to," Voigt told the West German ZDF television network in an evening interview from Bu­dapest. 
About 10 percent of the 150,000 to 200,000 East Ger­mans vacationing in Hungary are thought to be seeking pas­sage to West Germany, and Bonn and Budapest have agreed to help them, the gov­ernment sources said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Both Hungary and East Ger­
many are under communist 
governments and are in the So­
viet camp, but Hungary has 
embraced Western-style re­
forms and is seeking closer ties 
to the West, while East Ger­
many has shunned reform. 
In Vienna, Austrian officials 
confirmed that Bonn asked 
C!!btNtltt!JorkC!!imts 
Subscribe to The New York Times at a 50°/o discounted student rate. Papers will be delivered by 8:00 to dorms, faculty offices 
and mailboxes.  
fall term  full year  
Monday-Friday  $16.75  $34.00  
Monday-Saturday  $19.75  $40.00  
Monday-Sunday  $49.75  $100.00  
Sunday only  $30.00  $60.00  

For more information call: Tom Mustillo 146 Keenan Hall 283-3258 
We need students to work Movie Ticket Box 
Thurs., Fri., Sat., nights 
8:00 & 10:15 I $4.00/hr . 
Pick up applications 2nd floor LaFortune 
S.U.B. Due 9/5 
them to arrange for special rail transportation for up to 20,000 East Germans to West Ger­many. 
Voigt discussed the emigres situation in Budapest on 
Thursday with Hungary's Communist Party president, Rezso Nyers, and Foreign Min­istry officials and later said he was told all would be allowed to leave. 
"I was told this could only be a one-time thing. And it is cer­tainly important for the East German leadership to tolerate such a solution if not support it," Voigt said. 
Hungary will let the East Germans out under the auspices of the Red Cross or some other international humanitarian organization, he said. 
Voigt said Hungary guaran­teed that possessions left be­hind by the East Germans in Hungary could be returned to them. 
The apparent plan to allow East Germans out of Hungary without the usual documents authorizing their departure may have been intentionally leaked by West German officials earlier Thursday to let potential emigres in East Germany know about the rare escape opportunity. 
Most areas of East Germany receive Western radio or TV broadcasts. 
Asked if Austria had agreed to allow the escapes during the next few days, one West Ger­man official told The Associ­ated Press: "I cannot deny that." 


Viewpoint 
Friday, September 1, 1989

page 8 



P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 

Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Edltor ....... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ..•.......•.. Molly Killen VIewpoint Edltor.•••••••••••••.•••..Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ........ Shannon Roach Sports Editor .••.•.••••••••••••••••Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks Accent Edltor..••........•.....•.•••••••.• John Blasi Systems Manager .............. Mark Derwent Photo Edltor....•••••••••••••.••••••......Eric Bailey OTS Dlrector ................... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Edltor..•••.•..••••..Christine Gill Controller............................ Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of e~her institution. The news is reported as accurately and objective­ly as possible. Unsigned ed~orials represent the opinion of the major~y of the following: Ed­itor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Ac­cent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Clouds of noxious~-· 
Q,r,cure detai Is· 
~rm wiM<; !Jiowin<b aC!ll93 <l dimly lit lan:lscape <15 everythi~
swirls Clrwrrl in frenzied,C~ic circles­WMt 4> J.>U m\ke ci 
itaii7 

For Leona, tax evasion pays 
"Only the little people pay taxes ... " 
...and only crooks go to jail. 
Wednesday, self-professed hotel queen Leona llelmsley was convicted on several counts of tax evasion, among other things. llelmsley managed to dodge a cool $1.2 million in taxes by charging personal ex­penses to her business empire. This is not to say that she merely wrote off a couple of extra lunches at Maxime's. In fact, Leona saw fit to write off everything from her swimming pool, to her palace-like home in Greenwich, Connecticut, to her girdles. Talk about expense ac­counts. 
Mayor Ed Koch called her "The Wicked Witch of the West." After listening to clips of the trial on the news every night in New York this summer, maybe I've come to agree with him. Then again, she could have been misguided by her accoun­tants. In the end, however, she was definitely wrong, guilty, and out of control. 
I can't say that I have any sympathy for her. It was rough working this summer, only to have Uncle Sam take nearly a third of every paycheck. Still, what's $1.2 million when you have a multi-million, if not bil­lion-dollar empire? The answer is: not much. Moreover, it's highly unlikely that the regal Mrs. Helmsley will ever spend a 
single day behind bars. If so, it will certainly be a prison of the country club type, surely lo­cated in scenic Westchester 
Christine Walsh 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor 
County, New York, just minutes from her Greenwich estate. It's awfully hard being Leona. 
I'm not saying that taxes are altogether bad and that we shouldn't be taxed at all, but I do think that the current tax structure, and the attitudes that emerge from it are dis­graceful. Where else but in America will a private contrac­tor make several millions less than developer Donald Trump, and be included in a higher tax bracket? Where else do people spend billions of dollars a year to hire accountants to keep their books, all in the effort to avoid paying that same money to the government? Think of all the business majors who would be out of work if this weren't the case. 
It would be a wonderful world if this society could function as well as it does without the need for taxes, but unfortunately, they're here to stay. After all, where would we be without Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, ROTC, and even the grants and loans that enable us to attend this very university? 
Problems arise not because we have to support such pro­grams through taxes, but be­cause these programs have grown at phenomenal rates, so much so, that they have also 
grown out of control. The gov­
ernment has become as adept 
at spending as Leona Helmsley . 
The issue is not whether we 
should have government sup­
ported programs, but that if we 
are to support such worthwhile 
programs, we should learn to 
do so efficiently-or not at all. 
Leona's $1.2 million could re­
ally go to work, but more likely, 
it will be collected and go down 
the drain. 
Mike Dukakis just raised taxes in Massachusetts (again). If the people in that state are willing to put up with such outrageous tax rates, and even more outrageous waste, so be it. I personally would rather move to another state. I'm more than happy to pay my just amount in taxes, whatever that might be, but there has got to be a better way of determining just what that is. Moreover, we must ensure that everyone is made to pay her share. 
When we see people like Leona Helmsley we have to question whether or not our tax system is really serving the citizens of this country. The Helmsley case is a disgrace for this nation. Our tax system, and the way we allocate those taxes, are in need of reforJl!. Otherwise, the Helmsley case will not be a curiosity, but a commonplace sign of the dete­rioration of America. 
Christine Walsh is a junior government and P.P.E. major and is an Assistant Viewpoint Editor at The Observer 
Today editorial cartoonist Steve Benson makes his debut in the Viewpoint pages of The Observer. Benson's cartoons will appear in addition to those of Jim Borgman. 
Benson has been an editorial cartoonist for the Arizona Republic since 1980. His cartoons have appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, Time, Newsweek and U.S. News & World Report. 
"I don't aim to please, I just aim," says Benson. "To be effective, an editorial cartoonist has to be unpredictable. You always want to keep readers, especially politicians, guessing." 
LETTERS 
Treasurer calls for more student involvement in spending funds 
Dear Editor: 
Once again this summer, we received a bill on our University statement for the student activ­ity fee. This $55.00 charge to all undergraduates goes toward payment of many campus-wide events as well as for student run organizations throughout the school year. As Student Body Treasurer, I am account­able for where that money goes, and the manner in which it is spent. 
It is the Treasurer's respon­sibility to see that the money students pay every year is dis­tributed in the fairest way pos­sible. Each transaction pro­cessed must pass three criteria: 1.) it must be legal according to the student government consti­tution; 2.) it must be for an organization that has been ap­proved for funding by the Office of Student Activities; 3.) the organization (be it club or class government) must have money in its budget to receive funds. 
One integral part of this sys­tem, the budgeting process, was completed at the end of last year by members of the Student Senate Budget and Finance Committee. This group consists of members from stu­dent government, the Student Union Board, and the Office of Student Activities. Together, we allocated the 1989-1990 stu­dent activity fee funds to over 120 student clubs,and organi­zations, as well as to student government, the Student Union Board, all four classes, the Hall President's Council 
(representing each dorm on 
campus), and other student 
groups such as the student se­
nators, the Judicial Council, 
and the Ombudsman Society. 
All clubs and organizations which applied for funding for this school year should b1~ re­ceiving official notification of their funding request via cam­pus mail this week. If you do not receive a letter, please con­tract the Treasurer's office immediately. 
Finally, one consistent issue of last year's student body elec­tions was that students were not fully aware of how their student activity fee was being spent. That perception will change this year only if you the student get involved. Talk to your class president or club of­ficers and find out how they plan to spend your fee. By get­ting involved in how these funds are utilized, you will be gaining a real say in how your money is being spent. 
Additionally, look for updates on the student activity fee bud­get here in The Observer as well as at meetings of the Student Senate every Monday evening. However, if you are ever in need of some immediate answers, feel free to stop by the Student Body Treasurer's Office on the 2nd floor of the LaFortune Student Center and we'll do our best to answer any questions you may have. 
Guy G. Weismantel Student Body Treasurer August 31, 1989 
Have an opinion, an idea, or an exciting new thought? We want to hear from you. Write it down and send it off to Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556, or drop it by The Observer, 3rd floor LaFortune Student Center. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY

DOONESBURY 
LiJOI<., OARLIN6, IT'S 
aJHeN YOU 
l
TH/3 5T/31N8CR6S! 
5URFACE-,
MY, SH£'5 HOW/NV 
f}C.AR, caJW
UPM3U, CON510· 
YOUA5K 
'We do not remember days, 
&RIN65H/3'S 
FORTH/3
aost3 TO FOI?TY­
we remember moments.'
CHCCI<~ 
SQ'rl~ING ... 
I 
'/ 
L 
Cesare Pavese 
-----.1 



• page 9

• review 
'Parenthood' offers fresh look at families 
ROBYN SIMMONS heartbreaks of family life by tered on Gil Buckman (Steve hassles than successes. Some assistant accent editor taking a fresh look at one of Martin), his wife Karen (Mary of the major crises in the film the world's oldest professions, Steenburgen) and their three are brought on by the children, 
This summer, director Ron parenting. children. The story line quickly but sometimes the root of the Howard proved that you don't Although the American family expands to introduce Gil's two problem lies in the parents need to make a movie about a is well-covered territory in both sisters (Dianne Wiest and themselves. Just as there are half-man, half-bat or a group movies and television, Harley Kozak) and their fami­no perfect children, there are of ghosts that invade New York Howard's directing and a lies, and Gil's wayward brother no perfect parents. City in order to have a hit strong cast make this movie Larry (Tom Hulce.) Although Out of all of the Buckman movie. "Parenthood" is a slice­stand out amongst other films all of the children in the children, Weist's character of-life comedy that successfully based on the family. When the Buckman family are grown, faces the most challenges. Not combines the triumphs and film opens, the action is cen-their father (Jason Robards) only is she raising two children 
soon learns that parenting on her own, but her son won'tr doesn't end when the kids are speak to anyone and her old enough to live on their own. daughter runs off one weekend By providing the viewers with to marry her boyfriend. Like the four separate story lines, her brother Gil, she will do any­the movie offers a cross-sec­thing to make her kids happy, tion of American family life. Gil which is one of the main points and Karen head a more tradi­of the film: parenting requires tional nuclear family, where Gil sacrifice. works nine to five while Karen When Gil dresses up as stays at home raising the chil­Cowboy Dan the Balloon Man in dren. Gil's sister played by order to save his son's birthday Wiest is a divorced mother of party. it's hilarious and touch­two children, working to sup­ing at the same time because port her children without any the viewers know that Gil is financial support from her den­galloping around the yard and tist ex-husband. chasing kids with squirt guns in Probably the most humorous order to make his son happy. story line centers on Kozak's Gil proves that anyone can be a character and her husband hero in their own backyard. (Rick Moranis). Both are working parents, and Moranis' Despite all of the crises and character takes a particular in­disappointment child rearing terest in teaching their three­brings, the movie is an affirma­year-old daughter Patti, train­tion of the family; the final two ing her in everything from sequences make that quite Spanish to chemistry. Larry, clear. Howard's directing ef­the youngest of the four, is a fectively ties together the diver­gambler with little regard for gent story lines with a surprise his parents' sacrifices or the twist and a heartwarming final welfare of his own son who he scene. "Parenthood" is clearly only recently had the opportu­one of the best movies to come 
-
nity to meet. out this year, and it is highly As each plot unfolds, the recommended to those who viewer comes to realize that have not seen it yet. It's even parenting sometimes has more worth seeing a second time. 

'Is the world less innocent now than it was 50 years ago?' 
"What. after all/ Is a halo? Last month, I heard about the When you were a child at working to try to change the even when the world is in the 
It's only one thing more to keep Commencement held at Yale in Christmas, which made you human condition, you should mood not to love itself very 
clean." --Christopher Fry 1983, when Mother Theresa happier: a bundle of hand-knit­realize how limited you are, and much --does it matter if you Lately. I've noticed that some was awarded an honorary de­ted socks, or a paper sack full you should try to stay clear of prefer the actress to the nun as 
of the starch has gone out of gree. The audience listened of penny candy?" From the the blinding light of moral su­a pinup? Both are things of 
me, not so much physically as patiently when her citation was look that I got, I could tell that periority. beauty and a joy forever. 
morally and spiritually. If read, and applauded politely this value-oriented youth minis­Religion can do a great deal Beware the zealot who tries to ter was wondering at which for the human condition: it can persuade you that the obviously turn of the road in the lost offer it forgiveness, stroke it bare-bottomed emperor is childhood I had left innocence with grace, and help it to be wearing his new suits; and stay Father Robert Griffin 
behind me like a bleached bone. born again. But religion out of the way of the holier­The world is in rough shape -doesn't have the right to lie than-thou Christian who tries ­Letters to a Lonely God -as you can tell from the news­about the human condition, to burden your conscience with papers --and cynical, worldly saying it was more or less pious pipe dreams out of the priests may be part of the innocent three or four decades twilight zone. The chances are you'll pardon me for saying it, when her degree was presented; problem. Is the world less in­ago than it is now; saying God good that the parts of religion I'm suffering from a loss if in­but they were obviously saving nocent now than it was 50 is more displeased with it now, that bore you to death aren't nocence. Last Saturday, on my their enthusiasm for the last years ago? In early September, as the millennium is ending, the least bit interesting to God, radio program for children, I degree recipient, who was 1939, American newscasters, than He was at the start of a either. felt embarrassed because the waiting shyly in the wings. As broadcasting from London and world war; saying that in a The enemies of the church story, brought back from her citation was read, many of Berlin, were ending their pro­war, He will let human beings aren't the sinners and skeptics. England, was about witches, the seniors started to rush the grams on a portentous note: suffer the punishments they The enemies of religion are the ­not about Bambi or "The Five stage. When her name --Meryl "The lights are going out all have brought on themselves; diehards, willing to believe any­Little Peppers And How They Streep --was announced, the over Europe, and they may not but that at the millennium, He'll thing though it's dull and silly, Grew." I could have chosen shout brought down the thun­be lighted again in this genera­take an active hand in the chas­provided it makes other "Willie Wonka and the der from the skies over New tion." tisement, and wipe out the hu­Christians feel uncomfortable. Chocolate Factory"; but of Haven. If you put all the casualty lists man race. I'll admit that a few of them course, the children have met This incident was told to me and genocides together, over 50 Religion makes a big mistake have me on the ropes, suffering Willie Wonka. over lunch as a cautionary tale, million deaths took place, as a when it turns simplistic and from a sense of lost innocence. But they've never been in­to prove the lack of spiritual consequence of World War II. cheapens grace by laying it on Children --who suffer more troduced to the witches, who perceptiveness in the Yuppie­Earlier in the century, huge like a cosmetic, to give the hor­than anyone from the mistakes hate children, because every types of the Ivy League; would armies of lads described as ror stories a happy ending, of holier-than-thou adults -­mother-lovin' child there ever it have happened at Notre "children ardent for some des­thereby virtually wiping out the are the only real experts on in­was smells like dog's droppings Dame? My first reaction was perate glory," made the trip to problem of human suffering. nocence I've met. to a witch. When a witch to quote from the "Shropshire the Tree of the Knowledge of this is the trick of the clergy­smiles, the smile doesn't stretch Lad" --"When I was one-and­Good and Evil. That time, only man, preaching at a funeral to Stories about wicked witches from one side of her face to twenty/ I heard a wise man 9 million lives were lost, as the comfort the mourners, to stop don't bother the children, for another. A witch's smile goes sayJ 'Give crowns and pounds "rough beast, its hour come them from questioning the will they have innocence and their up and down, and runs from and guineas/ But not your heart round at last," slouched toward of God and asking why the air own sense of justice to protect 
-
the nose to the chin, allowing away;/ Give pearls away and Bethlehem to be born, loosing disaster to Lockerbie had to them from harm; and what you to see her ugly gums and rubies/ But keep your fancy mere anarchy upon the nations. happen, or why God lets inno­shocks a grownup only makes the tartar that yellows her free.'/ But I was one-and­"Know thyself" was the in­cent children die of AIDS. the children laugh. The teeth. If I were really innocent, twenty/ No use to talk to me." scription on the temple of witches' tales bother me and I wouldn't want nice children to Then, I asked: "When you Apollo at Delphi. This impossi­Religion's other big mistake perhaps the parents who are, have their minds cluttered with were one-and-twenty, who ble precept, it's been suggested, is the one made by the church­like me, half out of innocence. case histories of bad-tempered would you rather have dinner needs to be translated into goer who acts holier-than-thou. Should this be a worry? I old ladies who can turn an 8-with: the most stunning and something more humanly pos­If the message of the Gospel is mean, can there be anything year old girl into an egg-laying talented redhead in the Western sible: "Know what you can that God so loves the world -­more Catholic than a good guilt 
chicken. world, or a plain-Jane nun? work at." If you're a Christian, yesterday, today, and forever, trip? 
-j 
-~-~ 

Friday, September 1, 1989
The Observer
~ e 10 

Jackson eager to resume career 
Associated Press 

and finished second to Los Jackson's season statistics: a Angeles' Ore! Hershiser in the 6-11 record, 5.60 earned run 
CINCINNATI Danny Cy Young voting. His arm was average, and 122 hits allowed Jackson misses his team. He tired and the big toe on his left in 115 2-3 innings. misses pitching. He misses foot hurt at the end of the year, baseball. but doctors said rest would "It's been easier mentally 
Most of all, the injured cure both problems. knowing there was something pitcher can't wait to start It didn't. The toe became in­wrong that prevented me from throwing again to pull the cur­flamed in spring training, pre­throwing the way I know I can tain on what's been a missing venting Jackson from pushing ... but it doesn't make it easier season for him and the off the rubber. That in turn put to live with," Jackson said. Cincinnati Reds. more stress on his arm and "It's more embarrassing to me "It's been real frustrating," shoulder. He developed a sore after the year I had last year
..

he said. wrist and shoulder as result. 
Jackson is in the beginning "The toe helped cause some phase of rehabilitation on his of the shoulder problems," he Jackson has spent most of his left shoulder, which bothered said. "Since I wasn't able to time since the surgery at his him much of the season and re­move the shoulder the way I'm home in Kansas City, where he quired surgery July 31. He's al­supposed to, the speed and the follows the Reds through the lowed to use a very light weight rotation of the ball had to come newspapers. It's been a quietin exercises for the shoulder, from somewhere else, which time. gradually increasing the heavi­was the wrist." "It's been kind of boring, re­ness of the weight as his He lost six of his first eight ally. I haven't been able to do 
strength returns. starts, went on the disabled list anything," he said. 
----..:oo------­!sPORTS BRIEFS  
WVFI-AM 640 will hold a meeting for all returning sports staff members at 7 p.m. Monday in the station of­fice. Call x2265 or x2924 for more information. -The Observer The varsity golf team will host the Notre Dame Campus Championship Golf Tournament on Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 9-10 and 16-17. The tourney is open to faculty, staff, administration and students. Entry forms and more information are available at the golf pro shop. The entry fee is $5 with a deadline of 5 p.m. Monday. The tourney is also an open tryout for the men's and women's teams. -The Observer The Cycling Club is holding signups for the new year. Call Darren at x3472 for more information. -The Observer The Handball Club is currently holding registration for the fall semester, For more information, call Mike at 239-7735 or 239-736. -The Observer The Rowing Club will hold a brief meeting for varsity members to collect insurance information and dues at 7:30 p.m. Monday, Sept. 4, in 118 Niewland. -The Observer  

"They said I couldn't start in mid-June, made four more throwing until October some starts and then returned to the His rehabilitation schedule time," Jackson said. "It's not disabled list with the sore will have him tossing a ball in 
Finley will introduce 

going to do me any good to shoulder. mid-October and gradually in­rush. I can't prove anything." Team Dr. Warren Harding III creasing his distance and veloc­He started the season hoping trimmed frayed muscle cords in ity. 
new football tonight

to prove last year wasn't a the front and back of Jackson's "By January, I'm going to 
Associated Press 

fluke. shoulder on July 31, but found start throwing off the mound," Oakland Athletics baseball Jackson was 23-8 last season no injury to the rotator cuff. he said. · franchise has never been shy 
LAPORTE -Charles 0. about promoting his past on to play second-ranked goalie Kevin Johnston, wno led Finley, the man who gave fans sporting innovations. Nothing's Indiana in its second game of the nation last year' with 16 orange baseballs and brilliantly changed.
Soccer 

the tourney. shutouts, to plug the dam colored uniforms, has invented "I call it the football of the against the Irish. another eye-popper: the fluor­future," Finley said Thursday
continued from page 16 

St. Louis will test the Irish While this weekend's games escent football. in a telephone interview from up only nine goals all last sea­Saturday with a squad which will be very challenging for the his Chicago office. son. also features eight returning Irish, they should get a very A regulation high school ball "For years we've known the 
ACC Player of the Year Jeff starters and two All­good idea of how they compare sporting eight yellow fluores­lighting at high school stadi­
Agoos leads a solid group of Americans. St. Louis boasts a to the NCAA's best soccer cent stripes running along the ums for football has been inad­defenders for the Cavaliers, proud soccer tradition--they teams, and they should learn seams will be snapped from equate," he said. "I've been 
who will look to senior Drew have won ten national champi­how much work they need to do center Friday night in a high thinking about this for quite Fallon (11 goals, 7 assists) for onships, more than any other in order to gain an NCAA berth school game in LaPorte, some time. If a football was scoring punch. Virginia will go school--and will look to _junior again this season. Finley's hometown. striped properly it would be The former owner of the easier for everybody to see." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every bus1ness day from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 until3 p m. at the Saint Maris office. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must
Classifieds 
be prepaid. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 

I 
HAVE (2) GA TIX PITT & PENN 
l 
DESPERATELY SEEKING J.D. How're you going to do iL ST. NEED (2) GA USC. BILL (617) 
NOTICES NEWSPAPER CARRIER FOR ST. FOR SALE Did you read that one? 
328-6898.

• _ MARY'S. Good pay. must be ...when your first paper is due? 
'-----------" extremely responsible. For details IIIII USED TEXBOOKS IIIII call277-1859 and leave message. NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN 
HiAg

ORDERED IN 3 DAYS COLOR TV RENTALS: STATE GAME. WILL PAY CASH 25% OFF LIST PRICE !II LOW SEMESTER RATES. OR EXCHANGE 2 GA'S FOR 
WANTED: Student bands, all 
TV'S & VCR'S. FREE DELIVERY. NAVY GAME. CALL TIM, 
types of music. Good $$. Contact SITTER NEEDED, PART TIME, 
Alumni Sr. club card owners bringKNOLL WOOD AREA, PREFER

Pandora's Books COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272-FLANNER HALL EXT. 1143. 
your !D's (school and driver's 

808 Howard St,. 5959. 
Sean or Pete McCormick 289-YOU HAVE OWN 
license) when you pick up your 3 Blks. from NO 

8031. TRANSPORTATION. CALL 277­
carcL

233-2342 COUCH FOR SALE.272-6306 NEED 2 USC & 2MICH ST. TIX 8380.
PLEASEIICan you play piano bar type 

We have paperbacks in stock from PERFECT COLLEGE CAR · N.D. X1058
music,jazz, blues or anything in the ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE 
Aristotle to Zola, Fromm to GRAD MUST SELLI1981 HONDA If anyone is going to the Cure 
coffeehouse type style Alumni Sr. OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS 
Yoder!!! PRELUDE, ZIPPY 5-SPEED, concert Friday in Chicago, I
Club wants you .. leave name and COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A 
PANOORA'S SUNROOF, AC, NEW CLUTCH, WANTED-"10" PITT-NOTRE desperately need a ride! Please
number at 277-3653 or 239-7521. CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: 
BUYS USED TEXTS TOOl NEW FRONT & REAR BRAKES, DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR call!! X3677
POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY

NEW AM/FM STEREO SAT. 10/28189. PLEASE CALL PAT 
RD. 300 W, KOKOMO, IN 46901.

CASSETTE, AND NEW BATTERY. COLLECT AT (412) 372-3000.
CAMPUS BANDS CAMPUS 
STUDENT COMEDIANS all ages ... $2500. CALL EDDIE B. 8-6@ 271­
BANDS ........ Alumni Sr. Club wants JUNIORS 
-
interested in performing for Alumni 4060 OR AFTER 6 287-9093. NEED -4 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN. 
to keep you busy ... leave name, The Welcome Week fun continues SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS
Sr. Club leave name and number WILL PAY TOP$$$. CALL BOB 
number and name of band at277-this weekend! Tickets for Friday 
with what you do at PROF BOSE 301 SPEAKERS. 6 AT 1385. 
3653 or 239-7521 night's Barn Bash are at the class WELCOME BACK PICNIC 
277-3653 or 239 7521 ... MOS. OLD. BEST OFFER #1468. 
office. Don1 miss the Dunes Trip MONDAY SEPT. 4TH I'LL BUY YOUR FOOTBALL TIX on Saturday. Also join us Sunday 5-?PM HOLY CROSS FIELD 

TYPING AVAILABLE. waterbed!llll queen size, APPL OR TRADE A SR APPL FOR for the class mass at the Grotto 
287-4082. ready to set up 2 SOPH OR JR ONES. CALL at 
5:30p.m.
KATIE AT X1344. 

WANTED: bass player for the folk­LOW PRICE. call277-3346 rock band "Life is Elsewhere" 
1st FRIDAY VIGIL 
LOST/FOUND 
ANTI-APARTHEID NETWORKContact Jenny at #2572. 

1983 toyota tercel SR5 HELP! Need 3 Mich. St. tix. 
12:15AD BLDG STEPS 

5 speed am/fm stereo, air, sunroof Plez call Patty X3848 Mike F. goes both ways !Ill 
Lost: Ladies gray leather wallet on 

everything--call 233-5789 He is now both a Business and 
-Mon. between 9 am & 12 in JACC new FRIDAY, 9-12, IRISH MUSIC. 
evenings--leave message Arts and Letter major. 
Hockey Arena. $350.00/DA Y PROCESSING WANTED: KENNEDY & MCCORMICK. Reward offered. Very important PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL 2 GA Tix to the Mich game. Call CONEY ISLAND, 
PLYWOOD-PERFECT FOR 
imigration papers. Contace Susan x3029 and leave a message. 125 N. MICHIGAN.
YOU. NO EXPERIENCE LOFTMaxins-277-4469. 
NECESSARY. CALL CALL SUSAN X4053 
(REFUNDABLE) 1-315-733-6062 I Need Michgan Tixll EXTENSION P-2382H. Call Dan at 271-9821 I NEED A RIDE TO
Picked up wrong bag of BOOKS at 

INDIANAPOLIS FRI. SEPT. 8 FOR the bookstore on Wed. 8130. They 
MEN'S UNIVEGA 12 SPD. THE RE.M. CONCERT. l CAN were in the cubby holes in the Iron 
FORRENT 
l 

MOUNTAIN BIKE. 2 MOS. OLD. See the ROLLING STONES PRE-LAW PRE-LAW PRE-LAW LEAVE ANYTIME AFTER 12:30of the store. Several Archie & 287-2440. OFFER at Alpine Valley on 9/11. Important meeting for seniors on PM. PLEASE CALL KELLY 284­Italian books. I have them in my 
·-
FURNISHED APT.-LIKE ROOM, 4 GA's for sale. $33.00 ea. Mon., Sept. 4 in the Library Aud. at 4372.
room. Call Jeff Engelmeier x2274. 

AIR, KITCHEN, 5 MINS. NORTH Call Quinn after 5 at 291-2918. 6:30P.M.
[ TICKETS ]
CAMPUS. 272-0615. TIXI TIXI TIXI TIXI LOST HEWLETT PACKARD 
CALCULATOR MONDAY GA'S TO PUR PITT NAVY SMU 

2 Bdrm HOME on NO ave.272­AVAIL. NEED TIX TO USC. CALL GOOD MORNING, NOTRE AUGUST 28 BETWEEN LIBRARY 6306 JM 714-792-8919 DAY, 714-792-DAME! CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable 
AND PARKING LOT. CALL 239-SB TO HARTFORD. NW AND UAL. 
7308 NANCY. 1-WAY. SEPT. 2 AND 6. 239-7603 
For Rent 5859 EVE, atmosphere, daily & weekly
OR 291-6962. Furnished 2 bedroom house, 
714-675-8368 WKND. specials, pool table, English darts, and great company. 234-3541
-
safe & convienent area. Private parking lot . Basket ball court. 
WANTED ) $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
$$$ WANTED: TIX FOR ANY Located next to 2 other NO VICKY:
HOME GAME. WILL PAY MERCADO· This is my publicNEEDED: 2 General Admission 

University Pizza Delivery is TOP $$$11 apology for my actions. I'm sorry,
houses. Contact Bruce: 288­Tickets for the USC Game and 2 
completing their expansion!!! We 5653 or 234-3831; leave message. $ CALL KRIS #4340 $ Kevin. Please forgive! 
General Admission Tickets for the are now hiring pizza/submakers 
SMU Game. Please call259-8215. Congrats on making Marching and delivery drivers ( 15 positions 
APT. UTILITIES PAID GOOD 
Band. Now you can stop biting your available). Flexible hours and 

NEIGHBORHOOD MALE PERSONALS )
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ hair and knuckles.
good pay In a fast-paced, FUN PREFERRED 288-0955 

-lim
environment. Join the BEST 

WILL TRADE 2 MICHIGAN,4 BABYSITTERS NEEDED To the Females of NO,student-run business around. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 
NAVY, VARIOUS If I have to I can face anything. 
APPLY NOW IN PERSON at 

219-291-7153. 4 SMU TICKETS FOR USC OR TIMES FOR CHARMING 4-YR I am strong. (strong) Chris Zaback is 21 on Saturday!!!!
University Pizza, 18055 State 

PITT. GIRL. NEED OWN CAR AND LIKE I am invincible. (invincible) Don't forget to give him his Road #23: 
PH. 419-4335334 EVENINGS. CATS. 287-3315. lam ....WOMANI birthday --ckll 
~-----------------------------------------------~ 
-~---­

.... 
Friday, September 1, 1989 
Golf team opens slate with 17-team tourney 
By BARBARA MORAN said juniors Roberta Bryer and Sports Writer Pandora Fecko would definitely appear on the first team roster. 
The Notre Dame women's golf team will face its first test "Bryer and Fecko have turned of the season this weekend at in the best scores thus far," the second annual Lady Irish said Hanlon, "and Fecko is Invitational Tournament. The playing her best golf right Irish will host a field of 17 now." teams at Burke Memorial Golf "We also have two freshmen, Course, including the University Cappy Mack and Kathy Phares, of Michigan, Illinois State, who are excellent players," he Purdue, and last year's continued. "They've turned in a tournament winner, Western couple of scores and are Kentucky. competing for a position on the 
Despite the team's loss of first team. [Sophomore} Liz three seniors to graduation, Poden is also a strong player. Irish coach Tom Hanlon is ex­It's hard to determine who are pecting his team to place higher going to be the best players than its seventh place finish of when they've only been back at last year. school for a few days. I still 
"We're definitely more have to get some more scores. competitive this year than last," said Hanlon. "We hope to fin­"We should have a strong AP~ ish in the top three, but it will team this year, but we'll have to Sweden's Mats Wilander lost Wednesday night in the second round of the U.S. Open. He joined John take quite an effort." wait and see," Hanlon added, McEnroe as the second former champion to exit the tourney in the second round. 

Although he has not decided "but I'm always optimistic on a starting team yet, Hanlon about my team." 
Connors gets easy Open victory 
Associated Press first set. He polished off an 8-6 third round without dropping a win in the tie-breaker with his set. 
NEW YORK Jimmy eighth service winner. Lendl didn't strain himself Connors, the oldest player at But Shelton's serve failed him much in a snappy, 78-minute, the U.S. Open, showed as he double-faulted at game­6-2. 6-1. 6-1 victory against Thursday he still has plenty of point at the start of the second John Fitzgerald, a doubles spe­fight, while Andre Agassi and set, and the steady, wily cialist from Australia who Michael Chang kept up the Connors took his measure with charged the net futilely while march of America's teen bri­blazing returns, deft lobs and Lendl stayed back and ham­gade. passing shots. mered forehands and back­
Connors. who turns 37 on Shelton managed only five hands past him. Saturday, avoided the upsets aces in the last three sets and Lendl said he wasn't suprised that had tripped two other never threatened the 13th­at the second-round upsets of 

former champions, disposing of seeded Connors in any of them. Wilander by Sampras and four­hard-serving but erratic 23-Agassi, 19, Chang, 17, and time champion John McEnroe year-old qualifier Bryan Pete Sampras, 18, who took out by newcomer Paul Haarhuis. or Shelton 6-7, 6-2, 6-2, 6-2 in a defending champion Mats the near upset of Becker by second-round match. Wilander on Wednesday night, Derrick Rostagno. 
meanwhile, showed they are "The game has gotten bet­

Shelton, an All-America from part of a new generation of ter," he said. "A new genera­Georgia Tech who lost to Boris U.S. players on the verge of tion of players has come in and Becker in the first round at taking over the game. a lot of them are good. Some of Wimbledon in his first Grand The sixth-seeded Agassi, with them are good on a consistent Slam event. blasted 12 aces flowing locks and a throng of basis. but not on the top level. 
screaming female admirers, Some of them are very up-and­beat South African Neil Broad down. and when they're up, in winning 6-3, 6-2, 6-3 to ad­they're very dangerous." vance to the third round. Chang said the young 
Chang, the seventh seed and Americans are so good because French Open champion, han­they grew up playing together dled the swirling breeze on the and pushing each other "to the stadium court as easily as he limit." did Sweden's Thomas Hogstedt "If you didn't work hard. 
in a 6-1, 6-3, 6-3 victory. you'd be at the bottom of the There were no big upsets, for group, and nobody wanted to a change, as top-seeded Ivan be down there," he said. "Everybody pushed everybody, 

aerobics>'89 

Lend!, third -seeded Stefan 
and now that pushing is start­Edberg and ninth-seeded Tim 
ingto pay off."
Mayotte also advanced to the 
The Congregation of Holy Cross joyfully announces the perpetual profession of vows for a life of service and ministry among the People of God . 
Daniel J. Issing, C.S.C. Timothy L. O'Connor, C.S.C. Randall C. Rentner, C.S.C. John Ryan, C.S.C. 

SAMPLE NVA AEROBICS September 2, 1989 Moreau Seminary Chapel 
SIGN UP NOW IN THE NVA OFFICE JACC 
SAMPLE ALL CLASSES SEPTEMBER 6-10 TO DECIDE WHICH YOU WOULD LIKE TO PERMANENTLY ATTEND. MONDAY SEPTEMBER 11 YOU MUST HAVE 


REGISTRATION CARD TO PARTICIPATE. For more information about the Congregation of LOTS OF NEW CLASSES ADDED. Holy Cross: SCHEDULES AND DESCRIPTIONS AVAILABLE AT NVA. Fr. John Conley, C.S.C INSURANCE INFORMATION REQUIRED. Fr. Paul Doyle, C.S.C. 
Vocation Directors Box 541 Notre Dame, IN 46556 Phone (219) 239-6385 



The Observer Friday, September 1, 1989

page 12 
•

Norman takes one-shot advantage 1n Milwaukee Open 
Associated Press 
FRANKLIN, Wis.-Greg Norman shot an 8-under-par 64 Thursday in his first ap­pearance at the Greater Milwaukee Open and took a one-stroke lead after the open­ing round of the $800,000 tournament. 
Wayne Grady, Phil Blackmar, Curt Byrum and Steve Pate were one shot behind on a windy, overcast day at the 7 ,030-yard Tuckaway Country Club course. 
Norman, playing the back nine first, started slowly with a bogey-5 on the 444-yard lOth hole. 
But a birdie on the 525-yard 12th got Norman rolling. He finished the round with nine birdies, one on each of the course's four par-5s. 
Grady, playing in the same 

Replace 
continued from page 16 
mances from them that usu­ally comes after a year of col­lege football. 
Culver and Mihalko saw some time in the Irish backfield last season. Culver, a 6-2, 219 pound sophomore, who, ac­cording the the Notre Dame press guide is nicknamed Cookie, Bull, Tank, Pinball and Fireplug and played with Rock'em Sock'em Robots as a child, played in 11 games and carried the ball 30 times for 195 yards, with a 6.5 yards per carry average and three touch­downs. Mihalko, who played in nine games in 1988, is known for his blocking but also caught two passes from his fullback sopt. The 6-2, 234-pound junior received the Hering award for being the most improved offensive back in spring drills. 
The pair will join returning players Anthony Johnson and Rieky Watters to overcome the losses of Braxston Banks and Tony Brooks. 
Withe the transfer to UCLA of Arnold Ale, Andre Jones steps into the picture. The 6-4, 214­pound Jones, who is a favorite threesome with Norman, kept pace. He made two 40-foot putts and another from 60 feet for three birdies, and holed a sand wedge on the 390-yard fourth hole for an eagle-2. 
Blackmar, Byrum and Pate played the course in the after­noon when the wind picked up and a threat of rain lingered. But all three managed seven birdies on a course known for low scores. 
Alone in third was Steve Lowery with a 66 while seven others were at 67-Mark Lye, Hale Irwin, David Frost, Nick Price, Doug Weaver, Greg Ladehoff and Andrew Magee. 
Defending champion Ken Green withdrew with a sore back after a 1-under-par 71. 
Norman said his early morn­ing tee time was partially re­sponsible for his sluggish start. 
"It took about four or five 
holes to get my body in synch," 

SMC WIND ENSEMBLE 

NEEDS YOU!!!!! 
AUDITIONS: September 7 & 8 
Call 284-4627 for audition time or more information 
[}={]®[p)l?JW 
~ ~ ITit[ffi@l®W ~@@ 

··­
Love, Mom, Dad, Marianne, Kristina, and Alicia 


of Irish fans because of his en­thusiasm on special teams, started four games at defensive end in 1988, amassing 18 tack­les and recovering a fumble against Navy. 
Dahl, a junior, will fit in to help bolster the tackle spot. A 6-5 junior, Dahl saw limited time for the Irish in '88, but is expected to fill in in a big way this year. 
Linebacker Donn Grimm may be the Irish replacement with the biggest shoes to fill, those of all-American Mike Stonebreaker. Grimm saw playing time in all games in 1988 with six tackles and two fumble recoveries in 85 min­utes. 
Grimm and tri-captain Ned Bolcar will lead the linebacking corps, one of the strongest po­sitions for the Irish in the na­tional championship season. 
"Don Grimm is a very good football player," Holtz says. "He works hard, he doesn't make mistakes, and I'm sure he'll do an awfully good job for us." 
The typical Irish line, from the players and the coaches, is that 'no one can replace (name one), but (so-and-so) will do a very good job.' 

he said. "You hope to get off to a good start and just continue. Now you have a foundation to build a tournament around." 
Playing with Grady, whom he has known for 16 years, was beneficial for Norman. 
"He's very easy going and he's one of the best putters out here. You see a guy like him and he makes a couple of 40­footers and it's like 'Ho-hum, it's no big deal,"' Norman said. 
"He's very loose and I admire him for what he's done. He stuck to his task and believed he could play in the United States and came over here and finally won. I'm happy for him." 
Grady insisted, however, that despite the one-shot difference, Norman played the course much better. 
"The difference between my 65 and Greg's 64 was about 10 miles," Grady said. "I always 
In their storied history, the Notre Dame football teams have made the most of situa­tions like this, using them as character-building opportuni­ties. Not only that, but, being Notre Dame, there can't a bad football player on the team. The replacements are all quality players, as seen by the fact that the team is considered at least, if not more, powerful and talented than last years'. 
Although the Irish have a lot going against them in the at­tempt to defend their national championship, any failure to do so won't be due to lack of tal­ent. 
enjoy playing with Greg. He just dragged me along. I had a good score but that's all. Tee to green, I didn't know where the ball was going." 
Bryum had five birdies on the front nine while Blackmar had the same number on the back. 
"I'm happy to have a good round in the wind for a change. It was definitely a factor," Byrum said. "But I was hitting as solid as I could and it wasn't affecting my ball that much." 
The 6-foot-7, 240-pound Blackmar said the low scores weren't surprising, despite the conditions. 
"Tuckaway is a good course for the longer hitter, but you can put up some good scores. The greens are soft for the most part and the course is playing good. The scores are low and they will continue to be, particularly if it rains," he said. 
Pate started with two birdies and stayed consistent through­out his round. 

"I was just hoping to shoot something under the par. Usually when the wind is blow­ing, you can have two or three shots that will stray on you. I didn't let anything get away," he said. 


Caur~~tr & IP~alcc~m~rn~ ©fff~CC~al~ lf~~~~~lfal~~©ln dat~~ 
ATTENTION STUDENTS!! ATTENTION STUDENTS!! 
NOTRE DAME'S DEVELOPMENT PHONE CENTER NOW HIRING FOR THE 1989 FALL SEMESTER 
25-35 Student Positions Available Starting September 5th $4.70 Per Hour Flexible evening hours: 6:00-10:30 
All interested are invited to an informal Open House/Information Session at the Development Phone Center (southeast corner of Badin Hall) Thursday August 31 or Friday September 1 From 4:00p.m. -5:00p.m. 
PLEASE JOIN US 
For more information, call Carol McCtory 239-7938 or Mike Brach 239-7241 
Join the team as an Observer driver/ deliveryman 
* 
Flexible schedule 

* 
Late morning/early afternoon shifts 

* 
Start at $5/hour 


For more information, contact Rich Iannelli at 239-5303 

Friday, September 1, 1989 
The Observer page 13 
Baltimore falls into tie with Toronto after 11-0 defeat 
Associated Press games with their lead at one second complete game of the the Angels on Wednesday night. Rookie Kevin Ritz. · 3-3, game or less, they have gone 7-season. Reed has 17 hits for his last 31 allowed five hits, walked four 
CLEVELAND The 2. Bell's eighth-inning homer, at-bats, for a .516 average. and struck out seven in seven Baltimore Orioles are no longer Jerry Browne had four of his 16th of the season, Boston handed California's innings. lonely at the top. Cleveland's 15 hits. Brook extended his hitting streak to Kirk McCaskill, 14-8, only his 
"Just because we have Jacoby added three. 22 games, a club record and second defeat in his last seven Brewers 6, Mariners 1 company for a day, it's no big Farrell, 8-13, got his sixth the longest in the American decisions. MILWAUKEE Mark deal," Manager Frank complete game, striking out League this season. He also Knudson combined with two Robinson said after the Orioles five and walking two in his drove in a first-inning run with Royals 3, Tigers 0 relievers on a five-hitter and lost 11-0 to Cleveland on second career shutout. a groundout. KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Bret Billy Spiers drove in three runs Thursday night and fell into a Saberhagen won his eighth to lead Milwaukee. first-place tie with Toronto. Blue Jays 5, White Sox 1 Red Sox 5, Angels 2 game in a row as Kansas City 
The Orioles had led the TORONTO -George Bell BOSTON -Roger Clemens blanked Detroit 3-0, handing Knudson, 5-4. walked one, American League East for 97 drove in three runs, two with struck out a season-high 13 the Tigers their 12th straight struck out two and allowed straight days since moving into his 16th homer, leading batters to reach double figures loss. four hits and an unearned run first May 26. They lost 107 Toronto past Chicago for the for the 37th time in his career, Saberhagen, 17-5, has won in 7 1-3 innings. games last year. Blue Jays' ninth victory in 10 and hot-swinging Jody Reed 14 of his last 15 decisions. He 
"We'll see how they (the Blue games. had four hits as Boston beat pitched eight innings, allowed Robin Yount singled in two Jays) like it, and then we'll evict California. five hits, struck out seven and runs in the first off Brian them," Robinson said. Dave Stieb, 14-8, allowed Clemens, 14-9, fanned Lance walked none. Jeff Montgomery Holman, 5-8. Spiers singled in 
Joe Carter hit two home runs four hits in six innings, struck Parrish and Jack Howell four worked the ninth for his 15th two more runs in the fourth and John Farrell pitched a five­out two and walked two. Jim times apiece in pitching his save. and another in the sixth. hitter for his second career Acker followed with two hitless seventh complete game. Kevin Seitzer led the offense shutout for the Indians, who innings and Tom Henke pitched Reed extended his hitting with three of Kansas City's six Twins 8, Rangers 6 won two of three games in the the ninth to finish the combined streak to eight games as the hits. The victory moved the MINNEAPOLIS -Chip Hale's series. six-hitter. Red Sox bounced back after Royals within 2 112 games of first major league RBI broke a 
The Orioles are 24-25 since Steve Rosenberg, 4-10, gave having a nine-game winning idle Oakland in the American 3-3 tie and led Minnesota to the All-Star break. In nine up five runs and nine hits in his streak broken in a 4-0 loss to League West. victory over Texas. 
Wilkins signs five-year 

FRESHMAN SHOPPING TRIP 
extension with Atlanta 
Associated Press million annually and would be the league's fifth-highest paid 

OPPORTUNITY TO BUY THOSE TiflNGS YOU 
NOW FIND YOU NEED 
ATLANTA -Atlanta Hawks player. The newspapers said forward Dominique Wilkins New York's Patrick Ewing tops signed a five-year contract the list at an average of $3.5 Thursday. reportedly worth million a year.

SEPTEMBER 2, 1989 
$14.5 million, and said joining Wilkins negotiated a contract the NBA's top moneymakers that had two years remaining was "a great neighborhood to at $1.4 million each. He will be be in." 34 years old when the new con­

BUSES LEAVE 
At a news conference after tract expires.

N.D. MAIN CIRCLE Every 15 minutes starting at 1 PM 
the signing, Wilkins and Hawks ''I'm very happy. I can't tell President Stan Kasten refused you how happy," he said. 

University Park Mall Every 15 minutes starting at 1:30 PM 
to confirm The Atlanta Wilkins, who has averaged 26 Journal-Constitution's report points a game over his seven of the $14.5 million figure, but NBA seasons, said that with fi­Wilkins said the amount was nancial concerns out of the way 

Last bus 5 PM. 
"somewhere around there." he can concentrate on basket­
At that rate, Wilkins, who has ball. The Hawks have won 50 led Atlanta's rise to a top con­or more games in each of the tender over the past four years, past four seasons but have fal­

NO TICKETS NO CHARGE 
would make an average of $2.9 tered in the playoffs. 

,........................................................................................................., Come and join 
I I  LABOR DAY WEEKEND  Ii  The Macri's Deli Family WITH6~~~~~~RN~~~i~~ROW  
~  A#  ~  Positions Available:  
~  /  "-.....  ....  ~  cooks  dishwashers  
~ ~  B E A [ H  "­ ## ###  ~ ~  busboys hostesses work days or nights!  
~  "  BE A [ Hbeach  ~  '  A_p-pl-y-in_p_e_rs_o_n_L_o_ca-te_d_i_n_u_ni-ve_r_sit_y_c_e_nt-er--....,  

I!  "  · /PARTY........  I Be anj ambassador  
: ~I  Come Enjoy the Fun at St. Joseph Lake Beach  ~ I ~  of the Admissions Office to your high school  
~ !  sailing and rowing club exhibitions  ~I  as part of the Undergraduate Schools Committee  
~  beach  volleyball  ~  
~  swimming  ~  
~ ~!  scuba walk  and up g canoes kayak demonstrations rill and refreshments  ~! ~  

~ biathlon starts at 11 am ~ 
~ I
I ~ 
~ SATURDAY,SEPTEMBER2 ~ For More Information ... 
~ ll:OOam -4:00pm ~ Call Tim X2346 or Chelsea X3391 
... Or stop by the Admissions Office( 113 Admin. Bldg.)

~ rain date sunday, september 3 ~ 
~ ~ ~~~ 
,........................~........................................................................4~------------------------------------------~ 

Friday, September 1, 1989page 14 The Observer 

and Fiesta Bowl MVP awards. If Rice keeps on leading theBrooks to attend Holy Cross That Fiesta Bowl prize, you Irish to victory, he might soon
Rice 
may recall, came against West have a Heisman trophy to go
Associated Press 
continued from page 16
Bend Tribune in Thursday's Virginia. with his Kickoff Classic MVP 
Tony Brooks has registered editions. "But if it helps get his terbacks Major Harris, Rodney. at Holy Cross Junior College head on straight and headed in Peete and Steve Walsh. All three after being denied readmission the right direction, then that's finished in the. top five in last Virginia 0 0 0 13-13 to Notre Dame, where he fine." year's Heisman balloting. Notre Dame 19 14 0 3-36 rushed 66 7 yards last season Brooks was suspended from This time Rice was receiving for the national championship the Southern Cal game in all the attention while football team. November for being late re­Virginia's Shawn Moore, a NO 
Watters 2 run (Hackett kick) 
Brooks' mother, Algerita peatedly to team meetings, then quarterback coming off a NO 
Johnson 1 run (kick failed) 
Brooks, says her son will seek suspended from spring practice strong year with a style similar NO 
Culver 2 run (Rice run failed)

to re-enter Notre Dame in for unspecified disciplinary to Rice's, was virtually ignored. NO 
Johnson 1 run (Hentrich kick) 
1990. Brooks, who has com­reasons. Notre Dame officials 
NO Rice 3 run (Hentrich kick) 
pleted his sophomore year, have refused to disclose the Ever the diligent teacher, he 
Vir Dooley 6 pass from S.Moore (Mcinerney kick) 
hopes to graduate in three reason for refusing him re­took Moore to school. 
Vir McGonnigal 2 pass from S.Moore (pass failed) 
years, Ms. Brooks said. admission. The Kickoff Classic's most 
NO FG Hentrich 32 
"He sure will (work) and so The Holy Cross campus is valuable player nearly doubled will we," she told the South adjacent to Notre Dame. Moore in passing yardage (14 7 to 85) and had two and a half 
Vir NO 
85-11-5 in season opening times more rushing yards (70 First downs 14 24 games...Virginia's roster in­to 27). Rushes-yards 38-149 59-303
Irish 
cluded the sons of Bob Griese, Rice's leadership, however, Passing 95 177continued from page 16 Calvin Peete and Jesse Jackson. extends beyond the field. The Return Yards 0 90 Jackson spoke to the Irish in day before the game, he got in Comp-Att-lnt 1 1-24-3
to see a college game at the 9-19-1 Meadowlands... Notre Dame is the locker room after the game. some good-natured teasing to Punts 7-38 2-37 Ricky Watters, excited about Fumbles-Lost 
2-0 1-1 

his return to tailback. Penalties-Yards 
5-32 6-53 
"We were watching highlights of (Florida tailback) Emmitt
Several ranked teams 
Smith, and I kept saying, INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS 'Emmitt's better than you.' He RUSHING-Virginia, Wilson 15-85, Kirby 11-31, S.Moore 10-27, Bryant kept saying, 'No, no,' and I kept 2-6. Notre Dame, Watters 12-80, Rice 8-70, Johnson 18-66, Culver 9­
open college season 
teasing him." 47, lshmail 2-10, Setzer 3-8, Eilers 1-8, Mihalko 1-5, Graham 1-5, Watters responded with 189 Brooks 2-4, Mirer 2-0. 
Associated Press 
all-purpose yards ( 80 rushing, 67 returning, 42 receiving) in
Along with Illinois' game at 

With Thursday night's Kickoff Southern Cal, No. 14 Colorado 
PASSING-Virginia, S.Moore 10-22-2-85, Blundin 1-2-1-10. Notre
his first game as Notre Dame
Classic just a taste of things to also hosts Texas on Monday. 
Dame, Rice 7-11-0-147, Mirer 2-7-1-30, Graham 0-1-0-0. 

come, college football really Though Stanford finished starting tailback. gets serious this weekend. ninth in the Pac-1 0 at 1-5-1 and 
"He (Rice) does everything it No less than 11 ranked teams was 3-6-2 overall last season, takes to win," said Watters. 
RECEIVING-Virginia, McGonnigal 4-23, H.Moore 2-30, Finkelston 2­
"He's going to get it done. He's 21, Wilson 2-15, Dooley 1-6. Notre Dame, lshmail5-121, Watters 2-42,
will be in action as the 1989 the Cardinal has four returning 
the glue to the team. Bottom
season gets off with a rush. all-conference players, more 
Smith 1-18, Johnson 1-(minus 4).

line, he's a winner." Brigham Young are among sev­Cal. eral overwhelming favorites in "They have a lot of talent, a long weekend capped by a key and they were real close last battle Monday night between year," said Arizona Coach Dick No. 5 Southern Cal and No. 22 Tomey, whose team tied for Illinois. third in the conference with Clemson, ranked No. 12 in the Washington State at 5-3 and country, is a prohibitive fa­ended the season 7-4. vorite over Furman; No. 15 Oklahoma figures to blow out "We know that legitimately, New Mexico State, and No. 19 Arizona should be ranked in the Brigham Young is favored by Top 20 in the country," said more than four touchdowns Stanford's new coach, Dennis over New Mexico. Green, on the Stanford staff for Elsewhere Saturday, sixth­the third time after three years ranked Florida State meets coaching the San Francisco Southern Mississippi at 
Clemson, Oklahoma and than any team except Southern 
49ers' receivers. Jacksonville, Fla.; No. 7 "They were by far the best 7­Louisiana State plays at Texas 4 team in the conference last 
A&M; Stanford visits No. 18 year," and probably the best 7­Arizona State; No. 20 Pitt hosts 4 team not to get to a bowl Pacific; and Maryland travels to game in the last five to 10 
No. 24 North Carolina State. 
years, Green added. 
IRISH GARDENS 
Welcomes you back For all your flower and balloon needs -we open Mon. Sept.4 Hours 12:30-5:30 Mon.-Sat. 
SaintMa~'s College

Located in the basement of 
NOTRE DAME" INOlANA 

LaFortune 
Department of Communication and Theatre at Saint Mary's College 

~----------------------------, 
announces

(219) 234-0707 ~ (219) 289-7622 Repertory/Performance
MARATHON 

® Dance Workshop 
DICK'S MARATHON 
Auditions 

COMPLETE LINE OF Tuesday, September 5th 
AMERICAN & FOREIGN CARS 7:30pm 1102 SOUTH BEND AVE. Regina Hall Dance Studio 



SOUTH BEND, IN 46617 
Variable credit is offered and participation requires a two-semester commitment.

GOOD FOR ONE 
For more information contact: FREE CAR Professor lndi Dieckgrafe 284-4643 WASH 
L~~~~-~-~-~~-~---------------~ 
Friday, September 1, 1989 
The Observer page 15 

ACROSS 24 Distributed again
1 Arab garment 25 Novelist Jong et4 Middle al. 

European 28 Ear: Comb. form 

a Tam-o'-shanters 

29 Christmas song 12 Celebration 
30Against 14 Yugoslav coin 
31 Part of Q..E.D. 15 Neglects 
35 French 
17 First name of a soldier­1988World statesman: Series hero 1890-1970 
18 Solar disk 38 Anglo-Saxon slave
19 New Delhi notable 

39 British gun 40 Napery
20 Babylonian king mentioned by 41 Frat vets Jeremiah 42 Conduct 
23 Hoosier 43 Famed advocate humorist of Copemicanism 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
The third most common cause of forest fires. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Pork tenderloin saute 
Stir fry beef and green peppers 
Cod wedges on bun 

CROSSWORD 

48 Danish county 49 Don Ameche's 
famous role 54 Done in 55 Author Wister 56 Sheepskin book 
binding 58 Devastation 59 King Cyaxeres 
was one 60 A Holy Roman 
emperor 61 Hawaiian goose 62Whilom 63 Fasten by 
stitching 
DOWN 
1 Past 2 Rembrandt's "-and Cottage" 3 Away from the 
wind 4Gaps 5 Strip of wood 6 Kind of code 7 "I Remember 
Mama" playwright 8 Prepared apples for baking 9 Bewilder 10 He starred in "South Pacific" 11 Filch 13 Game fish 16 Great Spanish muralist 

21 Secretary of the 31 Big name in Interior: 1961-69 Spanish drama 22 Replace a ship's 32 Attachment to a saillines ginglymus 25 Behold: Lat. 33 Russian ruler: 
26 Stadium cheers 27 Kurdish is spoken here 28 Locale of Aconcagua 
30 Home of the Houston Oilers 
879-912 34 Canadian Indian 36 Big Bertha's 
birthplace 37 Meekas­42 Lodestone 43 Long, deep cut Budget 
50 Vase-shaped jug 
51 Cincinnati athletes 
52 Building sites 
53 Past due 
57 Feminist gp. 

COMICS 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
~E'I. 1».0, l'M ~~~B'fnNE:. A RO~T. CAN 'i()J GB ~£ I\ 1>~\t:t-lP 
WILBUR AND WENDEL 
BILLWATIERSON The Far Side GARY LARSON 

~~~~~----------------~~~~ 


l\111-\S -rn£. OOI-l1 Gtr 0\SCO\lRf\Gt.O. ~()JR 
~illA. 'fl~ ~ AN.O l G::>T iWC. SAM£. 1\t..~K't HGUI!E.D R£S\JL\S t>.FTER 'f.IOI<l<.I~G Ol{ OOT l-Ie'« \Cl 1'--.-~ JIW R>R SIX Yms. 
"'~ li \)0
WW..T 'flt. ~~­

JAY HOSLER 
01982Chtonlc::II'Fdtures Distributed by Unwersal Pr.a SyndiCate 
"No, no, no! Now, try it again! ... Remember, this is our one and only ticket out of here!" 

-

What do you get when you cross a porno movie and a dangerous weapon??? a NAKED GUN 
10:00 South Quad 
Tonight What do you usually do on Saturday morning??? watch CARTOONS 
9:00 South Quad Tonight What can you do if you hate sitting through movies? 
listen to the jammin' tunes of J.P. AND THE CATS Fieldhouse Mall
(If Rain, JP is moved to Theodore's) 
Saturday night 



TIHIJE 
UJNII([))N IE([))AmiiD 
Sports 
Friday, September 1, 1989 
a e 16 

Notre Dame rolls over Virginia in Kickoff Classic 
Irish knock out Cavs early, but bout goes the distance 
yard bomb. Rodney Culver ran
By STEVE MEGARGEE 

Associate Sports Editor two yards from there to give 
the Irish a 19-0 lead. 

EAST RUTHERFORD. N.J. -Time of knockout: 13:37. Lou Holtz, who often uses box­"It was like clockwork," said ing analogies in team speeches, Watters, who had 80 on 12 
watched his team turn in a carries, with 189 all-purpose Mike Tyson-type performance yards. "We'd been preparing 
Thursday night at Giants for so long in two-a-days, we Stadium. just went out and did what we 
Scoring touchdowns on each had done in practice." of its first five possessions, Unfortunately for Virginia, Notre Dame opened its national football games can't be 
championship defense with a stopped, and the bleeding con­36-13 Kickoff Classic win over tinued in the second quarter. 
Virginia. The Irish scored twice more "I don't know if we can play in the second quarter, on a one­much better than we did in the yard Johnson and the other a first 25 minutes," said Holtz. three yard scamper by Rice. 
The Irish dealt their first In the meantime, the Notre blow when Todd Lyght inter­Dame defense, which has lost cepted Virginia quarterback three starters in the past 
Shawn Moore's pass on the month, held Virginia to 60 net third play from scrimmage. Six yards in the first half. Shawn plays later, Ricket Watters Moore, the Cav's promising skirted two yards into the end quarterback, completed only 10 zone untouched. The ensuing of 22 passes on the night for 85 extra point gave the Irish a 7-0 yards. Lyght led the way with 
lead. two interceptions and a blocked A tight Virginia team never punt. recovered. looking like a Carl "Moore's an excellent quar­"The Truth" Williams in the terback, but he has a tendency ring as a heavyweight champ­to lock up on his receivers, ion. which makes it easier for the "We say that they either die defensive backs," said Lyght, 
quick or die slow," said Irish who dedicated the game to de­quarterback Tony Rice. "We parted players Tony Brooks, came out tonight and said, let's Mike Stonebreaker and George make them die fast." Williams. 
Notre Dame marched 54 Holtz mercifully stopped the yards for its next score with torture of Virginia's not-ready­
Anthony Johnson diving in from for-prime-time players late in the one-yard line. Billy the second quarter by replacing Hackett's missed the extra Rice with freshman Rick Mirer 
point to make it 13-0. at quarterback. In none of those two drives "It's one of those games did Notre Dame even throw a where you burn the film," said 
pass. After V.i,rginia's offense Virginia head coach George failed yet another time, Rice Welsh. "I think he (Holtz) was provided the hardest punch. nice to us. It could have been 
Rice hit Raghib "Rocket" much worse." Ismail, who did not start be­Rice, the game's most val­cause bruised toes, with a 57-uable player, completed seven 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Sports Writer 
"A good defense is the best offense." If this time-honored sports proverb is true, the 1989 Notre Dame men's soccer team is destined to pick up right where last year's tremendously successful squad left off by challenging the top-ranked soc­cer powers in the nation. 
"Defense will be the key for the entire season," says Coach Dennis Grace, "Building from the defense out has always been our philosophy. We're going to have to keep the ball out of our own net if we're going to stay in some of these games early on." 

This weekend Virginia and St. Louis will be the first two op­ponents to challenge Grace's philosophy at the Adidas­Metropolitan Life Classic in Bloomington. The Irish meet the top-ranked Cavaliers today and the thirteenth-ranked Billikens from St. Louis Saturday. Indiana University will round out the four-team field. 
The Irish have some voids to fill in the forward and midfield positions if they are going to rise to .the occasion and knock off the Cavaliers or the 
Billikens this weekend. Last 
year's top five scorers were lost 
to graduation, so although the 
Irish return most of their de­
fensive starters from last 
year's 17-4-2 NCAA 
Tournament team, they have 
their work cut out for them. 
Juniors Dan Stebbins and Tom Connaghan are expected to pick up the scoring load where departed stars Tiger McCourt (111 career points), Joe Sternberg (1 06), and Randy Morris (96) left off. 
In addition, Grace says Steve LaVigne and Mitch Kern are capable of adding punch to the offense, as are promising freshmen Kevin Penden:!ast and Brendan Dillman. Pendergast was a high school All-American as well as the Player of the Year in Connecticut, while Dillman was an all-state per­former for Jesuit High School in Tampa, Fla. 
The Irish will look to co-cap­tains Rolfe Behrje and Dave Augustyn to fill the leadership roles vacated by McCourt, Sternberg and company. Grace will also look for senior goal­keeper Danny Lyons to assume some leadership responsibilities through the course of the sea­son. 
"Danny Lyons is one of the 

Rice shines in first game 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 

During Wednesday's pre­
game press conference for the 
Kickoff Classic, the captains of 
Notre Dame and Virginia each 
made some brief remarks. 

Notre Dame quarterback 
Tony Rice stepped to the 
podium and said, "I'd like to 
thank ~est Virginia for coming 
here... 

It was about the only mistake 
he made all week. 

The senior from Woodruff, 
South Carolina, led the Irish for 
five series in the first half. 

All five times. the Irish 
reached the end zone. 

"Tony's a gamer," said full­back and fellow tri-captain Anthony Johnson. "He plays well in practice, but he seems to turn it up a couple of notches for the games." 
Rice carried the ball eight times for· 70 yards and one touchdown Thursday. 
And to impress the few re­maining doubters of his passing ability, he was 7 -of-11 through the air for 147 yards. He had 125 passing yards at half time, and there really was no need for Notre Dame to throw after that. 
If you want to compare the Heisman Trophy race to a presidential election, Rice just captured the New Hampshire primary. 
"I'm happy for Rice because of all critics," said sophomore running back Rodney Culver. "When they say what's wrong about Tony, every time he proves them wrong." 
He fooled the critics at least three times last year. when he outperformed opposing quar­
see RICE I page 14 
' ,,.·~ 
of eleven passes for 14 7 yards and ran 70 yards on eight car­ries. Ismail, bruised toes and all, caught five passes for 121 yards. 
Once the second half started, Virginia came to life and scored twice. 
The again, by that point, it didn't really matter. Moore threw two touchdown passes on a pair of fourth downs-one to Derrick Dooley, the son of former Georgia coach Vince Dooley and the other to Bruce McConnigal. 
Notre Dame, using plenty of reserves, was unable to move the ball until the first offense led the Irish to a 31-yard Craig Hentrich field goal at 1:46 left in the game. 
Irish Items: The attendance of 77,325 was the largest ever 
see IRISH I page 14 

ND soccer opens season tonight 
Irish replacements assuming big roles 
. The Repla~ements are a glorified bar band who were put m the spotlight thanks to the vociferous loyalty of their fans. ~ hi~ lackadasia~al at times, they take to the stage and wmg It. They stop m the middle of songs, they pretend to forget ~he words, they pretend like they don't really care about their performance, but they have this incredible fol­lowing across the country. 
best goalkeepers in the coun­try," praises Grace, "Danny will never have an average, subpar season," 
Indeed, with a 1.01 goals­against-average last season, Lyons was superb in the net for the Irish, and he should be a bright spot again this season. 
"Overall, this team may be slightly more talented than last year's squad. The difference is that last year we were a much more experienced team. Experienced talent is very diffi­cult to replace, and our young players need playing time," says Grace, but he is quick to add that many of his players have improved tremendously over the winter and should be ready to step in and contribute in the goal-scoring department. 
The Irish will need to click on all cylinders if they are going to beat Virginia today. The top­ranked Cavaliers boast two re­turning first team All­Americans and eight returning starters. Sophomore goalie Tony Meola (0.31 goals­against-average last year) is considered to be the premier goalkeeper in the nation, an­choring a defense which gave 
see SOCCER! page 1 0 
Theresa Kelly 
Sports Editor 

Notre Dame's replacements are a similar pack, thrust into the spotlight by circumstances byeond their controls. A bit inexperienced at times, they take to the field, and while they don't necessarily wing it, they aren't yet the polished performers of their predecessors. 
But unlike The Replacements of the stage, you won't find the Irish replacements stopping in the middle of a play, forgetting their place on the team or not caring about how they perform. They do, however, surpass the band in na­tional following. 
Ryan Mihalko, Rod Culver, Bob Dahl, Andre Jones and Donn Grimm are the Irish replacements, the guys charged with the tasks of trying to fill the shoes of the five Notre Dame players whose departures from the team stunned Notre Dame fans and made the pollsters rethink their picks. 
In addition, to fill out the depth charts, Lou Holtz and the Irish coaching staff have pushed the incoming freshmen, hurrying them along and requiring the type of perfor­
see REPLACE! page 12 



