

VOL. XXIII NO. j)"9 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1989 
... 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Victory for democracy movement in Czech. 
PRAGUE, Czechoslovakia (AP) -The Communist-controlled Parliament on Wednesday swiftly ended the party's 40­year monopoly on power in a fran tic effort to satisfy the de­mands of the growing pro­democracy movement. 
A member of the ruling Com­munist Politburo said the first fn~e elections in four decades could be held within a year. 
The 309 deputies present voted unanimously to scrap Article 4 of the constitution. which ensured the leading role of the Communist Party, and change Article 16. whieh man­dated that all education be bas1~d on Marxism-Leninism. 
The changes were among his­toric concessions the opposi­tion won from the Communist government on Tuesday when Premier Ladislav Adamec also promised to form a new gov­ernment. including non-Com­munists, by Sunday. 
They followed 11 straight days of huge anti-government demonstrations, which culmi­nated in a two-hour strike on 
Monday in which millions of workers participated. Parliament also eliminated the Communists' leading posi­
. tion in the National Front, an umbrella organization embrac­ing all political parties and so­cial groups allowed in Czechoslovakia. four deputies opposed the measure and 16 abstained. Shortly after the historic votes, state TV showed Slovak actor Milan Knazko announcing word of the changes to a packed National Theater in Bratislava, capital of Slovakia. The entire audience, which in­cluded prominent dissident Va­clav Havel, rose to its feet in thunderous, minute-long ap­plause. Parliament also planned to consider creating a constitu­tional court and a commission to investigate allegations of police brutality in a crackdown on protesters Nov. 17. The removal of the require­ment that Marxism-Leninism be the guiding principle of educa­
see CZECH. I page 6 


Popular choice for Prime Minister 
Popular choice for Indian Prime Minister Vishwanath Pratap Singh enters one of the many hurried meetings Wednesday in New Delphi where efforts to persuade him to contest for Prime Minister were continuing. 
Christian militias join general in opposing Syrian threat 
BEIHUT, Lebanon (API ­Christian militias that have op­posed Gen. Michel Aoun said Wednesday they would join him in fighting the troops, tanks and artillery Syria is massing around Lebanon's Christian en­dave. 
Elias llrawi, the new Chris­tian president backed by Syria, dismissed Aoun as army com­mander Tuesday and ordered him to leave his command post in a bunker beneath the presi­dential palace in Baabda, east of BPirut. 
Aoun claims Hrawi's election by Parliament last week was unconstitutional, says he won't accept a new peace plan until the Syrian "occupation army" leaves the country, and has re­fused to turn over the shell-bat­tered palace. 
Lebanon's largest Christian militia, the Lebanese forces, said it would fight beside the 20,000 Christian troops who followed Aoun through a six­month artillery war with the Syrians earlier this year. 
The Phalange Party, the main 
Trebbe appointed as associate director of IPSM 
Special to the Observer 

Rev. Franeis Tebbe. O.F.M., director of continu­ing education for the Catholic Theological Union in Chicago, has been ap­pointed associate director of the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry. 
A member of the francis­can order since 1968, Father Tebbe was graduated from Duns Scotus College in Southfield, Michigan in 1971 and ordained a priest in 1975. During the same year. he obtained a master's de­gree from Saint Leonard School of Theology in Cen­terville, Ohio. In 1986, he re­ceived a doctor of ministry degree from Andover New­ton Theological School in Newton Centre, Mas­sachusetts His dissertation topic was "Mentoring as an Image: The Supervision of Adult Religious Educators." 
Since 1985, Father Tebbe has directed continuing edu­cation and the master of theological studies degree program at the Catholic Theological Union. He also serves as director of continu· ing education and formation for his home community, the Franciscan Province of St. John the Baptist in Cincin­nati, Ohio. 
Before joining the faculty of the Catholic Theological Union, he had worked for five years in the Archdiocese of Boston's religious educa­tion office. He has also worked in Catholic parishes in Southfield, Michigan and Albuquerque, New Mexico. 
Father Tebbe has pub­lished reviews and articles on religious education in var• ious professional and schol­arly journals. A member of several professional asso­ciations of religious educa­tors and church administra­tors, he recently became sec­retary and treasurer of the right-wing Christian political force and also a foe of Aoun, pledged to confront any at­tempt to storm the 310-square­mile Christian enclave north and east of Beirut. 
National  Organization  of  
Continuing  Education  of  
Roman Catholic Clergy.  

Thirty-three members of the French parliament met with Aoun. In a show of support that contradicted the official French government stand, the legislators joined thousands of young men who have formed a Bernard Bosson, said he was "amazed at the flood of masses" at the palace and de­clared: "This is like the people's movement in Eastern Europe asking for democracy." 
human  shield  around  the  
palace.  
One  of  the  lawmakers,  

France supports Hrawi, who is trying to strengthen his cen­tral government and reunite the fractured military as part of an effort to end the 14-year-old sectarian civil war, in which more than 150,000 people have been killed. 
Christians have dominated the government, army and judi­ciary since Lebanon became in­dependent of France in 1943. 
Residents of Chtoura, an east Lebanon market town on the Damascus-Beirut road, said Wednesday afternoon that scores of 122mm and 133mm Syrian artillery pieces were moving toward Beirut and the central mountains above Baabda, followed by dozens of trucks filled with ammunition. 
They said hundreds of empty trucks were heading back to­ward Syria. 
Missionary speaks on El Salvador 
By CHAD KERLIN 
News Writer 
Rev. William Dexheimer, a Lutheran missionary forced out of El Salvador last week for being a Christian, spoke can­didly on the current reality of the Church there in a lecture on Wednesday. 
Before he began, however, Steve Moriarty, a Notre Dame alumnus and free-lance pho­tographer who spent much of this year in El Salvador, gave a thirty-minute slideshow docu­menting the recent election and focusing on the contemporary 
or  "underground"  Church  
there.  
Both  talks  focused  on  the  

atrocities being committed against the peoples of El Sal­vador and on the relativ.e igno­rance of the rest of the world. 
Moriarty's lens captured many horrifying scenes: scenes of carnage and death, the ends of more than a few so-called "subversives." 
These stills were contrasted with the glitter and celebration surrounding the election of the current Arena government ear­lier this year: the same gov­ernment that would turn on its own people. 
"Oppression is omnipresent in El Salvador and this has not been a recent development; it has been going on for some time," Moriarty explained. "In the police state of El Salvador, death is commonplace," he elaborated, both in speech and on film. "This is the true face of Arena, not all the pomp and circumstance," he said. 
Contrary to most popular re­ports, most of the opposition is not coming from guerrillas but from the more than seventy so­cial forces that operate within El Salvador, Dexheimer said. 
He explained that these forces include religious groups, unions and peasant groups who attempt peaceful means to bring about change. Their ef­forts go largely unacknowl­edged by our government, he added. 
"It is not just a bunch of guerrillas fighting the govern­ment; it's real people like you and me," said Dexheimer. 
"Students at the National University demonstrated by set­ting up blockades outside the university, and they torched a few Government vehicles. They have since been raided several times by the National Police who led many students off blindfolded. They have 'disappeared'," he added. 
According to Dexheimer, "disappeared" is a term used to describe the type of detention that people are subjected to . 
The government will arrest someone and then refuse to ac­knowledge that they have even detained them, Dexheimer said. As far as the government is concerned, the people have simply disappeared. Very few captives are released. 
"Most of this is not even known here," Dexheimer said. "After a particularly heavy night of bombing in San Sal­vador on November 12 of this year, the El Salvadorean presi­dent went on air saying that there had been no bombings. The U. S. Ambassador said the same. 
"After this, we felt we had to come forward and tell what was really going on. It had all gone on too long," Dexheimer recalled. Speaking out against 
see LECTURE I page 3 


Thursday, November 30, 1989
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Read this before you slam on Arts & Letters 
If someone called --------­you worthless, what would you do? 
Well, hopefully you 

Florentine
would assert yourself by examining the ac­

Hoelker
cusation and coming 

up with a defense and Assistant refutation. That's News Editor what I did, but now the original argument 
has escalated and I --------­
fear it may be out of 
control. 

The argumnnt started several weeks ago when I walked into English class and sat down. I glanced at my desktop to see a miniature dissertation on the superiority of engineering majors and the worthlessness of Arts & Letters majors. 
Disturbed and somewhat dismayed, I of course wrote a response to the claims that wn don't get jobs, aren't needed, etc. We do get jobs, you know. Why, if you think about it, we control what you read in the paper every day. 
Anyway, there were retorts to my written response over the next few days. Most ques­tioned whether we believed that we actually do important things. A few questioned our sexual preferences. The rest stated how engineering majors get jobs and we don't. 
One kind soul, trying to quell the conflict, wrote, "It takes two people to build; one to conceive of the structure, one to put the bricks together." 
The response to this was mature, intelli­gent, and reasoned. "Your the bricklayer you arts and letters 1-'-." 
As an English major, I was instantly re­pulsed by the spelling and grammatical errors in the reply. (Oh, for the author: the contraction of you are is you're. not your. ) We're all going to be teachnrs, you know. So I wrote, "Lovely diction, clever word choice. Learn to sp1~ll. you idiot." 
This didn't hnlp matters, because now there are even morn replies and nasty commnnts. 
So now, before class begins, people crowd around How 5 in 303 Cushing to see what nnw and delightful things are written about Arts & Lettnrs majors. Thnre are even in­sulting pictures of Arts & Letters women. Wow. What cool guys. 
Are these types of arguments widespread? Do you dnbate with your engineering roommate about the uselessness of Arts & Letters majors? 
Are all engineering majors geeks with plastic pocket protectors and horned rimmed glasses, incapable of intelligent conversation except when the topic is "Fluid nonconformities of a vacuum-packed slide rule in a gravity-free environment?" 
But hey, who cares? None of this stuff matters. It's all a joke, conducted with good fun, but not good taste. Even if we do con­trol the newspapers, and television, and the government, and your education ... 
The views expressed are the author's and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Today's  Staff:  
News Greg Lucas Man Galla~;~her John O'Bnen  Ad Design Val Poleno ~Callahan Kat leen O'Conner  VIewpoint Christme Walsh Janice O'Leary Katie Foster  
Accent Terri Walsh  Amy Eckert MarySaim Anita Covelli  Systems Molly Schwartz  
Christina Oritiz  Dsn Towers  
Colleen Cronin  Sports Greg Guffey  Business Liz Panzicia  
Production  Lauren Deluca  
Da~ Staff Col een Malloy  Kathy Gllwa Cristina Ortiz  Mike Kolar  
Erin Shirtzinger  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) IS published Monday lhrough Fnday excepl dunng exam and vaca11on penods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
WEATHER 

Forecast for noon, Thursday, November 30. 50 Lines show high temperatures. 
©1989 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
® © till] ~ w [Zj ~
" ~ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
WORLD 

81 Andy Warhol lithographs were recovered practice, but Hameau said they included two Britons by police in Amsterdam, Netherlands that had been a!ld two Yugoslavs. The lithographs were stolen from stolen from a West German art gallery two months an art gallery near Bonn in September as part of a ago, police said Wednesday. Seven persons were ar­theft of artwork with an nstimated value of $3 million, rested, said police spokesman Kees Rameau. The sus­Rameau said. pects were not identified in line with Dutch judicial 
NATIONAL 

HUD Secretary Jack Kemp has given up his New York state residency, ending any chance he'll run for governor next year, a spokesman said. Kemp notified the Erie Board of Elections on Monday that he was withdrawing his voting registration there, said Robert Nipp, a Housing and Urban Development spokesman in Washington."He intends to register in Montgomery County, Maryland," said Nipp. Nipp said Kemp was making the change because "he's no longer a congressman from Buffalo" and "he has his home in Bethesda." 
Chopping down a Christmas tree from Monroe Connecticut's town parks is a foul idea, and town officials plan to make sure everyone agrees. All the evergreens in the town's three parks are being sprayed with a foul-smelling mixture to dissuade people from robbing the parks for Christmas trees. 
"You can't smell it outdoors, but when you bring the tree inside and it warms up, bang. You have a pungent, stinky odor," said park ranger David Solek. "Taking one of these trees is a horrible thing," he said. "It goes against the spirit of the holiday. llow can anyone be proud of a tree they stole from a park?" 
A telephone answering machine with the voice of Sheriff John Schulze of Pawnee City, Nebraska greets emergency calls in the evenings and weekends because of budget cuts. "This is sheriff John Schulze. Due to a budget cut, a deputy or dispatcher is not available to take your call at this time ... ," the tape­recorded message says. The tape includes a telephone number for the sheriffs home, and says people may call collect in the event of an emergency, Schulze said Monday. "So far, we haven't had any major emergency that has been hindered by the system." 
INDIANA 

Elderly Hoosiers and their relatives in companies like ours are coming up with insurance Evansville, Indiana have swamped Blue Cross-Blue plans for long-term care, home care, and nursing care Shield with calls since Congress' decision to kill the aimed at trying to prevent people from spending their Medicare catastrophic health care law. Charlie Miller, a life savings to pay for health care," Miller said. spokesman for Blue Cross-Blue Shield in Indianapolis, "Health care technology continues to climb and in turn said the elderly now need new coverage, called more people are living longer." "Medigap," to help cover costs. "Some insurance 
ALMANAC
MARKET UPDATE
OF INTEREST' 

Right to Life Bus Sign-ups will be taken and 

on November 30: March for Life preview video shown 7:30 p.m. 
e In 1939: The Husso-Finnish 
Thursday in the CSC multipurpose room.
"R · 0 b " d h 
Volume in shares War, also known as the Winter 
oses In ecem er, a prayer service an t e 
War, began as Soviet troops in-film will take place in Siegfried Hall to commemorate 
147.30 Million vaded Finland. Although the the anniversary of the slaying of four church women in 
Finns mounted a spirited de-EI Salvador. The service will begin tonight at 9:00 p.m. 
fense, they were eventually in Siegfried's Chapel. 
NYSE Index overwhelmed by the Hed Army A Christmas Lunch is being served at the Center 
190.25 {7 1.09 and forced to sign a treaty the for Social Concerns from 11:30 to 1:30 p.m. 
S&P Composite n following March. Seniors are encouraged to pick up the weekly 
343.60 v 2.17 • In 1954: Elizabeth Hodges Bulletin in the Career and Placement Services office 
Dow Jones Industrials of Sylacauga, Alabama, was in­2688.78 {713.23 jured when an 8 1/2-pound me-now. Sign ups for the first two weeks of invitational 
teorite crashed through the interviews during the Spring semester end on Monday, 
Precious Metals roof of her house. December 18. 
n 

Senior Formal Chairperson applications 
Gold v $4.00 to $409·50 I oz.• In 1962: u Thant of Burma for next year must be submitted by juniors by 
Silver {7 9.5¢ to $5.60 1oz. was elected Secretary-General tomorrow. Applications are available at the Office of L_______________,of the United Nations, succeed-Student Activities. Source: AP ing the late Dag Hammarskjold. 
Thursday, November 30, 1989 The Observer page 3 


AP Photo 


Panda-monium 
Giant panda Qing Qing cuddles her month old baby, Xing Xing (Little Star} at the Chengdu Zoo in China's southwestern province of Sichuan. The cub, like its mother, had been conceived through artificial insemination. 
ally going on in El Salvador, Dexheimer said. 

Lecture 
"This is nothing new. Over 
continued from page 1 
seventy thousand Salvadoreans the government is very coura­have died so far and the only geous because it is considered thing that keeps the war going treason and is punishable by is U.S. aid. The U.S. pumps 1.5 death. million dollars per day into El 
Less then three days later, Salvador, and yet living condi­six Jesuit priests were mur­tions continue to deteriorate. 
dered. presumably by Arena's No one can win militarily; we death squads, and all remaining must stop the aid. Don't let the religious were virtually forced war go on forever," Dexheimer to leave. 
said. 
Dexheimer decided to end his According to Dexheimer, the three and a half year stay in El people of El Salvador know Salvador after receiving death that the road to freedom is threats by someone who spoke long and often painful, but theyEnglish without an accent. He go on "for their children." As is now touring the nation in an they say: "It is better to die byeffort to inform people more the bullet standing up than to 
realistically as to what is actu-live on your knees." 
Join The Observer 

The anniversary of the deaths of four church women killed in El Salvador is December 2. To commemorate their martyrdom, Siegfried Hall will be having a prayer service, including a film, "Roses in December", about their lives and service on Thursday, November 30, at 9 pm in Siegfried Chapel. The entire service will last approximately one hour. 
Prof. speaks on Israeli conflict 
By JESSICA ZIEMBROSKI News Writer 
Norman Finklestein, noted authority on the Arab-Israeli conflict, focused on the tax re­volt by the citizens of Beit Sahur in a lecture Wednesday night. 
Finklestein currently teaches political science at Brooklyn College in New York. Fin­klestein has spent time on the West Bank teaching and ob­serving the plight of the Pales­tinian people under the control of the Israeli government. 
Staying in the village of Beit Sahur. he lived with a host family and addressed in the lec­ture the effects on the villagers of the occupation and continu­ing repression by the Israeli military. 
The citizens of Beit Sahur. mainly middle class Christians, have been refusing to pay taxes in opposition to the control of Israel since 1985, said Fin­klestein. 
The lecture was titled 
"Intifada: A Personal and Polit­
ical Perspective." Intifada 
refers to the resistance and in­
ternal pressure of the Pales­
tinian people. 
In Beit Sahur, villagers are under curfew, soldiers routinely confiscate furniture and other belongings as payment for un­paid taxes and there are re­ports of growing food short­ages, indiscriminate beatings and arrests of hundreds of young people, Finklestein said. 
He also addressed the current siege that began September 21, 


Foosball fun 
soon after Finklestein's return to the U.S. and stated, "Israel makes no pretense of wanting to capture the hearts and minds of the Palestinians." 
Finklestein said, " [the vil­lagers 1 fear for what the fu­ture may or may not hold and fn.-th<>ir f~milies, yet their daily 

Norman Finkelstein 

existence is not paralyzed by this fear." 
Though he said "soldiers ex­ploit any sign of weakness," the people of Palestine do not con­sider themselves engaged in a total war with Israel. Fin­klestein commented on the current absence of mass public protests which at one time were the "heart of the intifada." He said that the stiffer residence had moved North to the Gaza Strip region. 
"The morale of the Palestini­ans has indisputably plum­meted for complex reasons," he said. These include economic misery, political strife, and varying attitudes toward the PLO, leadership, and repres­sion, according to Finklestein. 
Finklestein continued, "The Palestinian people cannot hold out indefinitely and that re­pression is taking its toll." 
He then suggested options to be taken by the villagers of Beit Sahur, "Either escalation of vi­olent resistence, following of PLO leadership, or counterfeit sovereignty to Israel." 
Finklestein predicted that. "the infitada will continue be­cause there is no alternative ac­tion to the opposition." 
With the prospect of possible peace one day, Finklestein quoted a villager as saying "we will forgive and forget, it is our nature." Though that does seem to be the feeling of most of the older residents, senti­ment seems to be quite different among the young due to recent widespread school closings, he explained. 
Questions .from the audience focused on the numerous uni­versity closings among other schools. Finklestein seemed to attribute this action by the Is­raelis to "the extreme impor­tance of education to the Palestinian people, it being a severe psychological blow." 
He also addressed the issue of being a Jew in the occupied territory. He said that the peo­ple of Beit Sahur, "barely raised an eyebrow when they heard that I was Jewish, the at­titude was one of basic indif­ference." Dr. Finklestein plans to release a new book, "Zionist Orientations; American Jews, Israel, and the Palestinians" within the year. 
Freshman Jesus Valdez, left, and sophmore Tim Caslin, right, engage in a heated battle of Foosball in the gameroom in the basement of Cavanaugh on Wednesday. 
Have something to say? The Viewpoint page depends on commentaries from its readers. Write down your thoughts and send them to Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 


ORANGE BOWL 
TRAVEL PACKAGE INCLUDES GAME TICKET! 
See the Fighting Irish BEAT the Colorado Buffs!
s598 
Your complete travel/game package includes all of these features: 
~r person quad 
(4 people perroom) . 0 Roundtrip airfare from Chicago via Eastern Airlines, departing 
triple. daubleorsingle December 31 and returning January 2, other dates available 
available an request 
0 Deluxe accommodations at a Miami Dadeland Marriott Hotel American Travel D Alamo rental car with unlimited free mileage. Gas, tax, insurance llemberlitheAmartxllSocietyotTrcveiAQenls extra. Minimum age requirements apply. Airport transfers available. andlheAmericanMarketingAssn. 0 ORANGE BOWL GAME TICKET-seat location subject to availability CollegeBowlandAiumnJSpeciaJJsts 0 Hotel and airline taxes included 
1-800.92MIAMI For 3 shoring. $648 each: 2 shonng. $698 each. stngle. 5798. Space IS llfTltted at these pnees aniJ is avotlable an (Hl0C).92b4264 TOU.·FREE) a llfsHame. ftrst·served baSIS. Si1111lar hotel may be substituted Standard trOYel packnge term5 apply 

NEW MONEY-SAVING 

DEALS 
CALL NOW! 
Notre Dame 
271-0300 
1835 South Bend Ave. 
DOUBLE GUARANTEE 
If your pizza isn't right, we'll make it right. If it's late, we'll give you $3.00 OFF! Call us for details. 
©1989 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 
r 
MONDAY'S BEAT THE CLOCK 
The time on the clock 
I 
is the price you pay! 
Call from 6pm -7pm order Two 10" One-topping pizzas and the time you call is the price you pay! Call from 7pm -8pm order Two 12" One-topping pizzas and the time you call is the price you pay! Call from 8pm -9pm order Two 14" One-topping pizzas and the time you call is the price you pay! Call from 9pm -10pm order Two One-topping pan pizzas and the time you call is the price you pay! 
L 
Valid al participating llores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales lax where applicable. Delivery area limited to ensure sale drovmg. Our drivers carry leu than S20.00. Our drivers are not penalized lor late deliveries. Cl1989 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 



r THURSDAY'S THINK THICK! 
Get One Medium Pan Pizza loaded with cheese 
and pepperoni 
I FOR ONLY $6.00 
L 
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary~ Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery area limited to ensure sale driving Our drovers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are n01 penalized lor late deliveries. ©1989 Domino's PIZza. Inc~ 
I 
SUNDAY'S DOUBLE FEATURE 

Get Two Small Cheese Pizzas! 
I FOR ONLY $5.49 
L 
Valid at participatong stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary~ Customer pays sales lax where applicable. Delivery area limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are n01 penalized tor late deliveries~ ©1989 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 
I 



ANYDAY! 
I 
Count on Domino's Pizza® to supply you with Two Large Cheese Pizzas anyday of the week! 
FOR ONLY $8.89 
L Valid at participating Slores only. Not valid with anyolher offer. Prices may vary. Customer pays sales lax where applicable~ Delivery area limited to ensure sale driving. Our drivers carry less than S20.00. Our drivers are nol penalized lor late deliveries. ©1989 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 
Thursday, November 30, 1989 
The Observer page 5 

Analysis begins on crane crash 

SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -A crane plummeted from the 16th story of a building under con­struction Tuesday, flattening a school van, cars and smashing into an office building across the street. At least five people were killed and 21 were injured, authorities said. 
"It felt like an earthquake," said Merrill Lynch Vice Presi­dent Joe McLaughlin, who was in the damaged office building. "I looked out and saw two bod­ies. One construction worker's boots were sticking up through a mass of jagged metal." 
In the aftermath of the acci­dent that rained concrete and twisted steel on one of the busi­est intersections in the financial district, a prosecutor said criminal negligence charges twice previously had been filed against the project's general contractor for accidents on Los Angeles construction sites. 
There were conflicting state­ments on what was happening before the crane fell. Fire Chief Fred Postel said it was hoisting steel beams, but the general contractor said the crane was being repositioned from the 16th to the 20th floors. 


DAR~JOD·VB 
at 
This Thursday: PROGRESSIVE ''"1 O:Ob-1 
You are Cordially Invited to a Company Presentation 
by 
Eli Lilly and Company 
on 
"Fznancial Career Opportunities and Challenges in a World-Class Life Sciences Company" 
Thursday, November 30, 1989 
Alumni Room Morris Inn 
7:00 pm -9:00 pm 
Reception following presentation 
Open to students majoring in: Finance, Economics, and ALP A 

A piece of the crane at least three stories long dangled from the side of the building under construction two hours after the 8:30 a.m. accident. Police roped off the area and ambu­lances rushed in and out. 
The street was littered with flattened cars and a mangled motorcyle. Gas was cut off to the damaged 21-story office building for fear of an explo­sion. 
"The wreckage looks abso­lutely incredible -steel beams look like pickup sticks," said Acting Mayor Angela Alioto, sitting in while Mayor Art Ag­nos tours the country urging tourists to return in the wake of the Oct. 17 earthquake. 
At an afternoon news confer­ence at the scene, Alioto said experts could not immediately determine the cause of the col­lapse. She also said streets in a four-square-block area would be closed for at least a week for cleanup and repairs, and the California Street cable car also was shut down. 
Alioto said the dead were four construction workers, all from the Seattle area, and the woman driving the school van, operated by Laidlaw Transit Inc. 
"It's pretty rough," said Laidlaw Senior Vice President Howard Wallack. "They (other employees) are pretty upset, and we are arranging a chap­lain and psychologist to go over to our offices." 
The fire chief said five people were listed as missing in the twisted steel and broken con­crete. However, police Capt. Tom Murphy said later that ev­eryone had been accounted for. 
Three hospitals reported re­ceiving 21 victims, four in seri­ous condition. Most of the rest had minor injuries. 
Swinerton & Walberg Co. of San Francisco, the general con­tractor on the job, said the crane was being repositioned from the 16th story to the 20th story, the second such reposi­tioning of the project. 
The crane, model No. SN355 manufactured by American Pecco of Millwood, N.Y., had a capacity of 17 tons. The site was last inspected by the state Occupational Safety and Health Administration on Aug. 11. 

page 6 
Interferon proposed as treatment for hepatitis C 
BOSTON (AP) -Interferon, a natural human protein, is the first treatment to stop the de­structive course of hepatitis C, a virus that infects at least 150,000 Americans a year, many through blood transfu­sions, researchers report. 
Therapy with alpha inter­feron, which the body produces to fight disease, temporarily shut down the virus's attack on the liver, although it often flared up when the treatment ended. 
"In my opinion, this is a ma­jor clinical advance," said Dr. Gary Davis of the University of Florida. "This is a very com­mon disease. There has been nothing available for these people in the past. While this controls the disease rather than cures it, it is the first therapeutic intervention that has bmm offered these people." 
Hepatitis C is the most com­mon serious infection that is passed through blood. Perhaps 5 pereent of all Americans who gnt routine transfusions be­come infected, although esti­mates vary widely. This hazard should largely disappear soon 


Czech. 
continued from page 1 
tion was a prime demand of students who staged the Nov. 17 protest and have led the pro-democracy movement since. 
In parliamentary debate, broadcast live on TV for the first time, deputies openly ad­mitted past party failures and said the Communists must work hard to win the people's confidence. 
"We have betrayed the trust of the electorate, and whatever laws we pass today will not change this," said Blanka Ilykova of the Socialist Party, until recently a docile ally of the Communists. 
Anton Blazej, dean of a Com­munist Party training academy, said: "We have misunderstood the leading role of the party and its position. We must re­gain this trust." 
Defense Minister Milan Va­clavik. a member of Parliament, sounded a cautionary note: "I am aware that neither the army nor the party have the best po­sition now. We should be aware that retreats and compromises are necessary, but there are limits." 
SECURITY BEAT 
MONDAY, NOV. 27 
S:45 p.m. An employee reported the theft of his wallet and contents from a secured locker in the locker room. The theft occurred sometime between 7:15 and 7:45 p.m. 
TUESDAY, NOV. 28 
1:00 p.m. A Siegfried Hall resident re· 
1ported the theft of her season basketball tickets from her room. Her loss is esti· mated to be $44.00. 
7:50 p.m. A resident of Merrillville was cited by Notre Dame Police for Exceed· ing the Posted Speed Limit. The defen­dant had been travelling 56 mph in a 35 mph zone on Douglas Road. 
S:45 p.m. A resident of Keenan Hall re­ported that his car had been vandalized while it was parked in the D-2 lot. The vandal(s) removed a windshield wiper from the car. 
WEDNESDAY,NOV.29 
12:15 a.m. A Dillon Hall resident re­ported the theft of his jacket from the bleacher area of the JACC Fieldhouse. His wallet and contents were also stolen 
when a new screening test for 'the virus becomes available. 
Most cases of hepatitis C are mild. However, about half of all those infected become long­term carriers and 10 percent suffer cirrhosis of the liver. 
In the latest research on 207 people, doctors found that in­terferon, produced in large quantities by genetically engi­neered bacteria, stopped the destruction of liver cells in about half of those with chronic disease. 
In more than half of those who are helped, the disease re­turned when treatment ended. But researchers hope that giv­ing interferon for longer peri­ods or in higher doses will hold the virus in check or wipe it out entirely. 
"It looks promising that an­tiviral treatment will be useful in this disease," said Dr. Jay Hoofnagle, a co-author of one of the studies at the National Institute of Diabetes and Diges­tive and Kidney Diseases. 
Davis and lloofnagle were co­authors of separate studies that reached similar conclu­
------------------~-----­
The Observer Thursday, November 30, 1989 

Liver transplant prediction 

Dr. Christoph Broelsch, left, the University of Chicage surgeon who lead the historic liver transplant operation on Alyssa Smith, talks with the 21-month-old's father, John Smith, during a news conference Tuesday at the University of Chicago. Doctors predicted success for Monday's operations on Alyssa and her mother, Teresa, who donated the liver. 
Now with Immediate Delivery! 
Three of the most popular IDM ProprintersTM arc available now at special low prices, and slightly longer delivery. 
Proprinter III w/Cable (42011003) $406 Proprinter X24E w/Cable (4207/002) $549 Proprinter XL24E w/Cable (4208/002) $736 Start out the new year right. Check out all 
these special savings now-before it's too late! 
I-Iow'rc you going to do it? 
PS/2 it! 
Notre Dame Computer Store Computing Center and Math Building 239-7477 ----­
----·­
---·­
"1hll of lot "lmrted to qualdieclti.Jdent., laculty rd staff """o order an IBM PS/2 Mcx:Je185JO-E21 01 8555~1 ltYQJQh December Jl, 1989 P.1cet QUOCed do rd. nclJde taleI tax. Prcea abOrle do ncUdla hlndlng chltge. Check wrtrl '1UJ1 ..,ltltuton tagwdl'lg lhla chaiga. ~BM and PS/2 are reg11totod trademawkt ollntemational But.nou Machnet Capaation. .,.Propri'lter and Micro Chamalara ltadomwka d lnternCCnal BuanMI MIChnea CO'paattOO ~6SX W"'d 80096 lie tradematkl of Intel Gapotatim. Ptieot •• aub,lectto cn.,ge a1d IBM ml'j withdrM t-.:1 ptOTIO(ic;r-, atarrv tma wrthwt writter'l ~ice. Immediate delNery Ia calh IW'ld cahiors chock 


Business 
Thursday, November 30, 1989 page 7 
Peace not an enemyof Wall Street's prosperity 
Would it really be bad for. end of World War II would competitive military pro­Such an achievement (or
Louis Rukeyser
the American economy if signal the resumption of the · curement and management even just inexorable move­peace were to break out Great Depression. system that is unsuited to ment toward it) could have across the planet? The country confounded Tribune Media Services the 20th century, to say vastly more than merely the­You might have thought so the gloomsters then by em­nothing of the 21st. oretical benefits. It would 
from Wall Street's initial re­barking instead on one of could be superb econOmic But the inefficient mar­mean the government would action, dumping every de­the most explosive periods of news for America's future. ketplace that defense pro­be taking less of the nation's fense stock in sight economic growth in its his­For peace, which is reputed curement represents is only output and income each (inducting those whose veri­tory, and it could well do so to be nice for small children part of the reason why its year, thereby broadening the fication techniques could again in the next generation. and other living things, diminishment could provide opportunities for human now be even more in de­This is not to say that de­might turn out to be surpris­economic benefits. For de­freedom and progress. It' mand) and generally sending fense industries do not pro­ingly good news in less sen-· fense spending forces a di­would leave more in the na­an uneasy market lower. vide substantial employment timental parts of our society, version of resources both tional savings pool for pri­It would, ironically. have now-or, for that matter, as well. from consumer goods, which vate development of genuine been a happy day for those that such employment is First, because the defense provide higher living stan­financial security, at lower hard-line communist ideo­likely to vanish entirely be­procurement market is, by dards today, and from non­interest rates. And it would logues who made a career of cause Defense Secretary definition, an inefficient defense capital spending, lessen American dependence denouncing the "war mon­Dick Cheney reportedly is market. For many if not which provides even higher on the thrift (and therefore gers of Wall Street," and looking for $180 billion in most items, the Pentagon is levels of personal well-being the increasing influence) of 
who maintained that capital­reductions over the next six the only buyer. The normal tomorrow. It does not take a foreigners. ism was inevitably the pawn years. give-and-take of buyers and Ph.D. in economics to rec­For the foreseeable future, of its "military-industrial The cold war is not yet sellers is absent, and absent ognize that the average citi­American defense spending complex." over, wishful analysis to the too is the economic discipline zen gains more immediate is likely to remain higher 
Fact is, thought, they were contrary, and even if it were, that such interaction pro­benefit from an automobile than now seems probable, wrong -and so are those the U.S. would still need to vides. than a hand grenade. amid the euphoric headlines. Americans who have con­maintain the strength to No one should be surprised Finally, one of the most But no rational American cluded dolefully that peace is handle regional conflicts and by periodic reports of important potential benefits should doubt this country's the enemy of prosperity. keep tabs on the 30 or so bribery and other forms of of reduced defense spending long-term ability to deal with 
It is not a new mistake. smaller countries that have corruption in defense con­could be the most illusive of peace, and transform it into One of Wall Street's worst the capacity to blow up the tracting. Moreover, the re­all economic goals: a bal­an instrument for sounder ­calls of this century was its world with their own nuclear cent furors over overpriced anced federal budget, and healthier -economic bearish behavior in the late arms. screwdrivers and toilet seats achieved by lower expendi­growth. Karl Marx was 1940s, when the market sold That said, however, de­were clearly just the tip of a tures rather than endlessly wrong about that one, too. off repeatedly in the erro­fense spending can and much more significant ice­debilitating increases in Copyright 1989 Tribune neous expectation that the should come down. And this berg: an outmoded and un-taxes. Media Services 
If you have a car and are interested

Join the team 
in making some extra money, become an Associated Press courier for 

that brings ND/SMC 
The Observer. 
The Observer For more information, call Regis Coccia at 239·5303 



With Macintosh 
you can 
even do this: 
New 3€N Open... 3€0 Close 

Print... 3€P 
Quit 3€Q 
Macintosh"computers have Macintosh Sale, you can wind up with always been easy to use. But they've much more ofacomputer. never been this easy to own. Without spending alot more money 
Presenting The Macintosh Sale. 
ThroughJanuary31, you can save hundreds ofdollars on avariety ofApple" Macintosh computers and peripherals. 
So now there's no reason to settle for an ordinary PC.With The 

Notre Dame Computer Store Office of University Computing Math/Computing Center 

The Macintosh Sale.
239-7477 

Now through January 26 
fO 1989 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple /~, and Macintosh ani registemi tmdemarks ofApple Computer, Inc. 



Viewpoint 
Thursday, November 30, 1989
page 8 
The -Obset:Ver~ 
P 0. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Cocc1a R1ch Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor Manhew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly K1llen Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager Al1son Cocks Accent Editor John Blas1 Systems Mgr Bernard Brennmkmeyer Photo Editor Enc Ba1ley OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chnstme G1ll Controller Anne L1ndner 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary"s College It does not necessarily reflect the pol­ICies of the adm1n1strat1on of e1ther 1nst1tUt1on The news IS reported as accurately and ob­JeCtively as possible Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opm1on of the maJonty of the follow1ng Ed1tor-1n-Ch1ef Managmg Ed1tor. Execut1ve News Ed1tor. V1ewpo1nt Ed1tor Sports Ed1tor Accent Ed1tor. Photo Ed1tor Sa1nt Mary's Editor Commentanes. feners. and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of thelf authors Column space IS available to all members of the commumty and the free expression of varymg op1mons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 

LETTERS 
Dispelling misconceptions about AIDS, African culture 
Dear Hditor: because I can't see how it mosexuality is foreign to black that order of significance. The and since in the Christian world I would like to take issue with would protect all those British African culture; otherwise we predominant mode of AIDS darkness and evil are synony­the following quotation from nationals in search of homo­would have developed rituals transmission in black Africa is mous. this perception has oftPn the letter by J. Daniel, M. Hol­sexual affairs in Africa. and customs to address this heterosexual sex, not homo­been carried to ludicrous loway and P. Marzolf in the The Clearly what these authors behavior. sexual as erroneously implied heights by certain forees who Observer of Nov. 16: "In order failed to emphasize is that Third, let's address the issue by J. Daniel, M. Holloway, and wish, and therefore try to will to protect its citizens, the Home African countries lack the of AIDS itself. Nobody knows P. Marzolf in the quotation the origin of real evils in the Office of the British Govern­means to adequately screen do­for sure the origin of AIDS. above. West to an African source, in ment recommends a health kit nated blood for the AIDS virus There have been theories, some Fourth, I would hesitate to spite of other overriding fac­
to all travellers to the African and therefore the health kit of them implicating a species of assert that the AIDS virus is tors. 
eontinent where the practice of would be of significance only to monkey in Zaire, others point­more rampant in Africa than homosexuality and, therefore, those individuals requiring ing to American research labo­say in the U.S. especially since the presence of the deadly AIDS blood transfusions. ratories in search of cancer the only figures published indi­Allen A. Aradi virus, is rampant." Second, it is sheer ignorance cures and in development of bi­cate to the contrary. Postdoctoral Fellow 
I do not believe that this in­to visualize homosexuality as ological weapons as having Finally, Africa has often been Chemistry Department 
formation is accurate the way typically African, something mistakenly created this virus. perceived as the dark continent, Nov. 17, 1989 it is written and therefore as an that is clearly insinuated in the Ironically, the one that has re­1\frican I feel obligated to put it quotation above. Those of us ceived most attention is the 
Advice to ND guys: DART
into its proper perspective. who are informed about African monkey, in spite of the First, the word "homosexual" African society know quite well fact that the pygmies who in­is strategically inoculated into that it is not strange to observe habit the same forests with 
away those laundry blues 
this text for some ulterior mo­black Africans of the same sex these primates are relatively Dear Editor: view these instructions. 
tive only best known to the au­casually holding hands as a free of AIDS. 
Well, the news Notre Dame Second, assign each male athors. Are they trying to tell us sign of friendship. Such a What is known are the vari­men feared most came Nov. 15-minute time period duringthat Africans are homosexuals practice is taboo in the Western ous modes of propagation of 17: "Men must do their own which he '"'may start a load ofand therefore that is why the world precisely because homo­this virus, namely intravenous laundry in existing campus fa­laundry; say, Wednesday, 3:30­AIDS virus exists in Africa? If sexuality is an issue here. Com­drugs, homosexual intercourse, cilities in Badin Hall and 3:45 a.m. Finally, the Comput­so, then the health kit idea ing from rural Africa I can heterosexual intercourse, and LaFortune for the remainder of ing Center would outfit eachwould be an asinine solution state with confidence that ho-blood transfusions, roughly in 
the semester." The LaFortune washer with a touch-tone nu­'Caricatures' exist where reports lack historical context laundromat has 13 washers; meric key pad connected via 
Badin has 14. fiber optic cable to the Cray su­Dear Editor: in Israel in the most nationalist employs rock against Uzis can Now it does not take Lotus 1-percomputer at the University
Ethan llaimo is certainly cor­of viewpoints, for he describes fairly be described as 2-3 to figure out that 6400 men of Illinois, Champaign-Urbana. rect in his letter of Nov. 21 that a eollection of actions in the "relatively non-violent." sharing 27 washers comes out no one should generalize about foreground without mention of Moreover, the government's to 237 men per washer. If ev­Each male student then re­Jews or, for that matter, any their background. refusal to talk to the legitimate eryone does laundry weekly, ports at his designated time to other group, especially because It is for that reason that I representatives of the Pales­that averages to about 34 men the laundromat. lie plunks in such generalizations can easily call his description a carica­tinian people on the grounds per machine each day. At first 85 cents, punches in his confi­lead others to dismiss criticism ture-, for it entirely omits a con­that the PLO is a "terrorist or­this may look like a logistical dential PIN number, and the as some form of prejudice. Yet text. And since most Israelis ganization," when that same nightmare. Fortunately, how­washer starts his laundry. If IH1 the point of his -letter was are quite aware of this context organization has undertaken ever, the University already has misses his appointed time, he rather to take issue with a de­which is their government's the recent initiatives which it in place a system which can has to wait until the next cen­scription of the intifada as systematic refusal of ordinary has, represents manifest easily solve this problem: tury. Such a creative use of ex­"relatively non-violent." human rights to Palestinians in hypocrisy. It is in this context DART. isting technology eannot miss: 
It was this contention made the occupied territories, they that stones offer an under­First of all, Golden Dome Doing laundry will be as easy in an earlier article which his would recognize his description standable outlet for frustra­Productions could make a video as registering.letter addressed and, in doing as a caricature. For when one tion. That would seem to be ev­which explains to guys how to so, offered a caricature of the deseribes a movement, one ident to anyone, of whatever do their own laundry. ( E.g., the There is an alternative: In­current strategies on the part must attend to the leadership's persuasion, who surveys the camera pans from the Dome to stall washers and dryers in the of the Palestinians in the Land directions which have current scene in the Holy Land. Ned Bolcar in full pads and men's dorms. to gain their due recognition as foresworn the use of firearms uniform, who explains, "First persons and as a people. It is or explosives. The same can you separate whites from col­Father Gerald V. Lardner important for American read­hardly be said for the IDF, as Father David Burrell ors." And so on.) The men Rector ers to realize that the descrip­the entire world knows. In that Professor of Philosophy could report to the Cushing Au­Grace /lull tion he gave could only appear respect, then, a conflict which Nov. 22, 1989 ditorium in groups of 500 to Nov. 17, 1989 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY
DOONIESBURY 
[APTAJN~ CHJeF Y()(J'R& ALL. PART OF IIVUNSKY JU5T me RNe?T NAVAL­7RJPPW OveR AN ~IN THe~! ~/A/IRe. I t:XPeCT Ya.J 70 
Ht'S OOIAIN IN ACrUK& IT.' GOTIF 51CJ<a4Y. 
AYe,AYe,SIR.! ~ AY&;,51R! ~ A'/8,5/R! 
'The glory of God is a human being fully alive.' 
lrenaeus 
(1895-1982) 



Accent
Thu~day, November30, 1989 
page 9 

A Notre Dame first date 
or 
How to re-live the experience if you already had a root canal 
Here's a word of advice for FIRST OUTING EXPERIENCE. I when you ask a girl if she'd like must stress. though, that it is to go out with you sometime NOT a first-hand experience. I and she says "Yes, I'd love to. I am only using the term "I" for don't know right now when my convenience. And I have been next free night is, but I'll call." given permission to sell you the What she means by this is Dome for only $9.95. Just send "Yeah. sure, I'll go out with the check to the Observer care a bonehead, I asked her if she that she's sitting in the little seating arrangements, right? you. I'll put you on my list right of me, AI Franken. ran or aerobicized? "What?" chair-for-one and I'm sitting on So she came back, leaned over 
here after that roadkill I saw I was in the darkroom mind­she said. I explained that I had her bed. Now, here's the ques­the bed (which was pushed in to last night." ing my own business when SHE seen her wearing that stuff. tion, why am I up there if we're be a couch) next to me and put came in. The first thing she did and she said she had been play­going to sit ten feet apart? I a tape in her stereo. I'm all setDAN FONTANA was ask me a question. "Haha," ing soccer, and I looked like a mean, we were closer in the for her to sit next to me and I thought, "she OBVIOUSLY fool. Huddle. Did she want me to sit what does she do? Back to that 
...the Real World 
wants me!" So we started talk­Naturally, I expected her to in the chair with her? If so, why damn chair! ing. The usual stuff. What's say something like, "It has just not just skip to the closet. Or, 
As I'm sure you've found out your major? What hall are you come to my attention that better yet, head first in a Someday, I'm going to get by now, though, if you are per­in? Now, I'm not going to tell you're a jerk, so I'm going back "mummy" style sleeping bag. I that chair and make it suffer. I sistent and start asking in early you what hall she lives in. I'm to my room. Have a life." But also noticed that she only shut figure this is it, there's no way fall. she will eventually go out not even going to tell you it instead she recommended that the door halfway. Did she want she wants me in the chair with you because, well, what rhymes with SALSH. I just don't we (guess what, think hard) go it that way, or was I supposed (slowly, I'll make it suffer else is there to do around here think it would be right. Anyway, to the (got it?) HUDDLE for to shut it? I've asked a lot of slowly), I mean, it was small. in March. And I don't mean to this went on for a little while. some (now this is new) ICE guys, and I have a tip for you And as for just wanting to talk rip on girls here. Guys are the Okay, three and a half hours. CREAM! I was disturbed to he.ar girls: we guys don't have a like friends? That's a good same way, only we will give in Okay, the only reason we quit this because I forgot which fla­clue. thing, but it wasn't us. We fin­around January, what with was because it was time to go vor Du Lac requires me to ished everything we had to talk football season over and all. to Mass. But we got along well, order. So we got the ice cream, So I figure, what with the. about halfway through the 
Anyway, after you get all the so the next day I called her. went upstairs and sat down. A chair and the door and all, that darkroom. We were basically details settled (The "details" by Detecting that this could lead bunch of small talk, I managed I must have done something just sitting there watching dust the way are always "We'll go to to a First Outing, she gave me not to make a mess, and we stupid while I was blacked out. form. Now, I know why were­the Huddle."), it's time for the the required line about calling were back outside walking So I motioned to some open ally have parietals. It's not to First Date. Only it's not a first me back when she had time. around. books on her desk and said, keep us from successfully being date because at this point you So I called her the next night, So, as you can see, thus far, "Do you have a lot of work? social. It's to save us when don't even really know each and before I knew it, we were it's not going that bad. But it Maybe I should be leaving." I we're not. I can't tell you how other and how could you call it walking through Main Quad. It isn't going all that well either figured this would be her happy I was when I realized I a DATE when you don't even was at this point that I realized which is why it came as such a chance to get rid of me. But no, HAD to leave. know this person. I mean, come that I had better start some shock to me when she, and I'm she said she was finished and I on. What we call it is the first spontaneous conversation not making this up, asked me . should stay. So that's it, an ND First outing of two people who are quick, or I'd set the record for (really, I promise) TO HER Outing. Pretty exciting, huh? I'll aware of each others existence the shortest First Outing. Now, ROOM! Naturally, I black out Next thing I know, she's get­bet they don't have that much and are not nauseated by it. I remembered seeing her a few here. ting up from the chair saying fun at West Coast schools. But 
Now, in the interest of good days before in those leotard­The next thing I remember something about putting her then again, I'll bet they're not journalism. I have decided to type things girls wear to work I'm in her room and we're talk­clothes in the dryer. Obviously, National Champions either. So I describe to you an ACTUAL out or run or whatever. So, like ing again. One thing I notice is this is an excuse to redo the guess it equals out. Maybe. 
Three new albums offer a wide range of musical styles 
New artists who are worth a listen
D'Arby's latest is-­
tarist/vocalist Bryan Harvey JOHN LANE and drummer Johnny Hott who reason to be proud 
accent writer both hail from Richmond, Virginia. Their music constantly JOHN LANE Interested in new music? goes back and forth between accent writer Then check out Sidewinders slow guitar licks and furious and House Of Freaks, two sounds with Hott pounding 
"Neither Fish Nor Flesh" is promising young American away on drums. Their lyrics are the new album from Terence bands. The Sidewinders' not all about love and relation­Trent D'Arby. Although not as "Witchdoctor" and House Of ships, but about diverse sub­catchy as his excellent debut Freaks' "Tantilla" are two of jects with frequent references "Introducing The llardline", the best new-band albums of to biblical passages. "Tantilla" "Neither Fish Nor Flesh" is a 1989. is a great follow-up to their fine piece of work. fine debut album "Monkey On A 
Sidewinders are a band from Chain Gang." "Tantilla's" high­Arizona built in the classic rock 
After his first album, D'Arby lights include "When The 
band mold: two guitars, a bass,
called himself the sexiest man Hammer Came Down" and 
and drums and "Witchdoctor"
alive and his debut the best "King Of Kings." However, rock album ever. Since then, is their major label debut House Of Freaks is not a sin­D'Arby seems to have toned (RCA). The best songs include gles band. Their songs should the title track which features be listened to in bunches be­
down his arrogance. In "You 
Will Pay Tomorrow," he says "I strong guitars, "Bad, Crazy cause their sound is not catchy. used to rather be dead than Know Someone Deeply Is To part of "Neither Fish Nor Sun" which is about Mexican Their distinct style takes some humble/But now I'd rather be Know Someone Softly," D'Arby Flesh." "Attracted To You" and immigrants, and "What Am I getting used to. 
"You Will Pay Tomorrow" are Supposed To Do?" Sidewinders
dead than proud." switches with great ease from 
do not stray much from a basic Neither the Sidewinders nor
Nevertheless, D'Arby has rea­speaking to a soft monotone to other highlights. 
hitting high notes. rock 'n' roll sound, although House Of Freaks has reached son to feel good about himself. 
lie produced "Neither Fish Nor With "Neither Fish Nor there is some southwestern their potent!_al yet. Both bands 
Flesh," wrote all the words and The pace of the album picks Flesh," Terence Trent D'Arby rock influence on are a little rough around the music, and sang all vocals, in­up with pop songs 'Til Be has conquered the often diffi­"Witchdoctor." Many of their edges. Nevertheless, cluding background. Alright," "Billy Don't Fall," and cult task of providing a strong songs concern despair and the "Witchdoctor" and "Tan till a" 
"This Side Of Love" which has second album following a suc­sometimes-apparent useless­are good albums from two 
"Neither Fish Nor Flesh" good guitars. These are the cessful debut. The album ness of life. In "Witchdoctor," young American bands with contains 12 songs and lasts for songs with the most potential should do well in record stores guitarist Dave Slutes shouts 'I much potential. You might be over 50 minutes. The album to be hit singles. None will based on D'Arby's past success. got nothin' but twenty plus hearing a lot from Sidewinders opens with four slow tracks, all probably do as well as He gained many fans with his years of wasted life.' and House Of Freaks in the fu­designed to set up D'Arby's "Wishing Well" or "Sign Your first album, "Introducing The ture. With a little refinement, voice which has tremendous Name," radio hits off D'Arby's Hardline." However, "Neither House Of Freaks is a more both bands could go a long way 
range. On "I Have Faith In first album. However, taken to­Fish Nor Flesh" should also do unorthodox band. The two in the mainstream, somewhat These Desolate Times" and "To gether, they form the strong well for it is a fine album. members of the group are gui-like R.E.M. did a few years ago. 
Thursday, November 30, 1989
page 10 The Observer 

Oklahoma explodes for 173 points 
NORMAN, Okla. (AP) Oklahoma missed four chances at college basketball's first 100-point half before settling for a record 97 and the 17th­ranked Sooners got a career­high 31 points from William Davis in crushing U.S. International 173-101 Wednesday night. 
Davis, who also had 18 re­
bounds, scored 20 points in the 
first half when the Sooners 
piled up a 97-45 lead. That 
broke the mark of 94 scored 
last season by Loyola 
Marymount -also against U.S. 
International. 
Oklahoma failed to connect on four 3-point shots in the fi­nal minute of the first half in an attempt to reach 100 by the intermission. The Sooners used their press for the entire first half and forced 28 turnovers, setting up numerous easy bas­kets. 
The Sooners also set an NCAA record for shots in a game with 147, surpassing the 132 by Illinois against Colgate on Dec. 30, 1948. The 173 points were eight short of the NCAA record set by Loyola Marymount against USIU in last year's 181-150 shootout. It was a Big Eight record, eclips­ing the mark of 152 the Sooners scored against Oral Roberts last season. 
Oklahoma actually started slowly, taking a 20-10 lead with 
13:19 left in the half. But then they began to press furiously anathe result was a 24-0 run in the span of 2:25, with 18 points coming off turnovers. 
Then it was off to the record books. In the first half, Oklahoma took 90 shots and made 42, grabbed 50 rebounds and made 21 steals. All four were Big Eight one-half records. The Sooners forced 42 turnovers and wound up with a Big Eight record 86 rebounds. 
Tony Martin and Skeeter Henry each scored 20 points in the first half and finished with 24 and 27, respectively. Jackie Jones added 20 points. 
U.S. International (2-1) got 28 ooints from Steve Smith. 2fi from Kevin Bradshaw and 20 from Demetrius Laffitte. 
Syracuse 108, Cornell 56 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. (AP)-Top­ranked Syracuse held Cornell to two field goals in the first 10 minutes and handed its Ivy League neighbors the worst de­feat in their basketball history, 108-56 Wednesday night. 
It was the Orangemen's 21st consecutive triumph over Cornell, as well as the most lopsided in a rivalry that in­cludes two 41-point blowouts by Syracuse. 
Senior Stephen Thompson, switched from small forward to point guard this season, scored 22 points for Syracuse, which began pulling its starters just three minutes into the contest. The Orangemen (2-0) also got 20 points from Derrick Coleman. 
Cornell's previous worst beating was a 51-point loss to Penn in 1974. 
Cornell (2-1), which made just five of 23 first-half shots, took a 3-2 lead on Shawn Maharaj's 3-pointer with two minutes gone. The Big Hed added five points from the foul line before its next field goal, also a 3­pointer, 7 1/2 minutes later. 
Thompson countered with a 3-pointer to give the Orangemen a 25-11 lead, which Syracuse extended to 53-27 at the half. 
Syracuse, which enjoyed a significant height advantage . and blocked 11 shots, struggled with its shooting in the opening minutes before asserting its transition game. 
Arkansas 105, So. Ala. 90 
MOBILE, Ala. (AP) -Todd Day scored 28 points and Lenzie Howell added 23 to lead No. 11 Arkansas to a 105-90 victory over South Alabama on Wednesday night. 
Day also had nine rebounds for the Razorbacks (3-0) while Lee Mayberry had 16 points and 10 assists. 
South Alabama (1-1) was led by Alex Stanwood, who shot 1 0-of-11 from the field and 8­of-1 0 from the foul line for 28 points. He also led the Jaguars with six rebounds. Boobie James had 12 points and 10 assists. 
Arkansas shot 61 percent and led at halftime 48-38. The Razorbacks stretched the lead to 90-73 with 6:37 left. 

Ditka plans to stay as Chicago coach 
MADISON, Wis. (AP) ­Chicago Bears Coach Mike Ditka, who had hinted at calling it quits after this sea­son, said Wednesday he planned to keep coaching the team -at least through the end of his contract next sea­son. 
"I would consider it not only something I want to do, but I would consider that a great honor," Ditka said, re­sponding to whether he would honor his three-year contract. 
"The people who like me will see me again, and the people who don't have to put up with me," Ditka told re­porters at a news conference in Madison, whem the Bears are training. 
Earlier this month, appar­ently frustrated with the Bears' lackluster perfor­mance this year, Ditka hinted he was ready to throw in the towel. The team's record stands at 6-6. 
"Football has been my life for 29 years," Ditka said. "If it continues for 29 more years I'll be the luckiest per­son in the world, but realis­tically you've got to look at everything. It's not going to continue that long." 
Ditka's contract is due to expire at the end of the 1990-91 season. 
"I think the players ex­
pected him back because he 
did have a three-year con­
tract," Bears spokesman 
John Bostrom said. "That's 
not to say ·he's going to re­
tire" when his contract is up. 
On Sunday, the Bears took 
a 38-14 beating at the hands 
of the Washington Redskins 
at HFK Stadium. After the 
game, Ditka said: "This was 
absolutely the worst exhibi­
tion of football that I've ever 
seen. 
"We are absolutely an atrocious football team at this point." 
Ditka made the comments despite being only one game behind Green Bay and Minnesota in the Central Division logjam. The Bears meet the Vikings in Minnesota on Sunday. 
Also on Wednesday, about a dozen Packers fans protested the Bears practice at the University of Wisconsin's McClain Indoor Praetice Facility. 
The crowd carried signs reading "Bears Suck" and "Bears Go Home," and stood outside the main entrance to the practice facility, which was closed to the public. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.

Classifieds 
Tickets to Bahamas for sale. $250 GOING ABROAD NEXT 
DIRECT SALES PROS NEEDED BILLIARD TOURNAMENT! 
SOPHOMORES!!
for 2 people. Call287·5162 JoAnn BILLIARD TOURNAMENT! SEMESTER?
for leading water treatment 
NOTICES 
Let's rock around the
company.Paid traininiJ. salary First Prize·$65.00 pool cue WANT TO SHARE STORAGE? and/or straight commission. We December 4·6, 
CALL X 2905 
Christmas tree at the­
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL offer complete corporate benefits, TICKETS Gorch Games Room, LaFortune 
SOPHOMORE CHRISTMAS
MRS. COKER, 233·7009. 
insurance, paid vacation, etc. 2 Entry Fee $5. ROOMMATE WANTED· Female 
FORMAL
ROLLING STONES TICKETS (24) seeks non-smoker to sharesales per week earns $60K, 1stWORDPROCESSING 
Friday, December I,
FOR SALE : 2 TICKETS DEC 7th apartment near NO. Will move inyear income. For interview or more272·8827 
Information on the 2nd fastest INDIANAPOLIS. $65.00/PAIR Hey Norm, do you need to see that with you or find place t9gether. 
from 9pm to lam in South 
growing business in the world, call CALL X 6287 OR 272·7545 man about a dog??? Colleen 3503. 
Dining Hall 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
Tickets are $8 per couple and
287·4082 
"TONIGHT in SIEGFRIED"' RIGHT TO LIFE( PERSONALS The anniversary of the deaths of 4 DC bus sign·ups and March for 
on sale NOW in Sophomore
TEXTBOOKS 
Class Office. 
church women killed in El Salvador Life video 7:30 pm Thurs. CSCBOUGHT AND SOLD ORANGE BOWL FLIGHTS is Dec. 2. To commemorate their multipurpose room 
HO!HO!HO!
PANDORA'S BOOKS 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL 
CALL 1·800·7DOMERS martyrdom, Siegfried Hall will be CORNER OF N.D. AVE. AND having a prayer service, including a
FORUM
HOWARD Chicago · $295 film, TOP 10 QUOTES FROM A NIGHT· 233·2342 
Prof. John H. Robinson 
Cincinnati · $245 "Roses in December", about their MARE IN MIAMI LOTS OF PAPERBACKS IN Cleveland· $311 lives and service tonight at 9 p.m. 1 0) It was the power of the 
Director of NO's Thomas 
Do you want someone whoSTOCK! 
Dallas · $320 in Siegfried ChapeL deer. 
idolizes you for what you do. or
White Center on Law 
Denver· $351 Maura Clarke, Jean Donovan, 9) Poor Bob. stricken with loves you for who you are? 
TYPING Detroit · $280 Dorothy Kazel, Ita Ford polio, sits alone in the car
and Government 
PICKUP & DELIVERY Louisville · $245 8) I've been driving since mid· 277·7406 
Philadelphia · $270 night; that"s 11 Loomer New Orleans · $200 time. Lost and Found 
responds to 
Pete· JUNIORS
"Should Cocaine be 
LaGuardia· $310 7) If anyone gets killed on
Y.at.h.f.m (B.LU!) INTERESTED IN APPLYING Legalized?" 
Boston · $328 this trip it's gonna be Dano FOR SENIOR FORMAL LOST: $70 FROM TRUSTCORP Pittsburgh · $320 6) Oh God, there's fur on the
.l(ris CHAIRPERSON MAY PICK MACHINE ON 11/18/89. THERE'S 
Thursday, Nov 30 
los Anqeles . $440 wheels! A VIDEO TAPE OF THE 
P.S. Y.o.m.2br. W.c.Lc?? UP APPLICATIONS AT THE 
CALL1·800·7DOMERS 5) Far be it from me to do STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE. 
7pm
TRANSACTION. PLEASE MOST FLIGHTS 12129 AND 1/3. this, but the situation is THEY MUST BE RETURNED BYRETURN MONEY TO 222 SEATS ARE LIMITED. desperate.
All are welcome! 
12/1/89!!
KEENAN HALL NO QUESTIONS 4) Haven't you ever heard of JUNIORSASKED AND NO FURTHER STUDENT-MADE NO FOOTBALL skunks spontaneously com·
SENIORSTROUBLE. 
T-SHIRTS WANTED. CALL TOM busting? How do you think Thanks for a great weekend, COLLECT AT (602) 948·7610 forest fires start? 
SENIORS Mom, Dad, & Rob·LOST: MEN'S NO RING ON WITH DESCRIPTION. 3) I've got fresh venison We forgot how much we lovedSUNDAY BETWEEN 
FOR RENT 
ESPECIALLY WANT MIAMI AND under my fenders. 
SENIORS good 'ol N.J. home cookin'! 
LAFORTUNE AND STADIUM. 
ORANGE BOWL SHIRTS. WILL 2} You'll never run a forklift 
·M&K
REWARD OFFERED. 1522. 
605 ST. PETER, 5 SEDAM PAY $12.50/SHIRT. in my company again! 
"A CHRISTMAS AFFAIR'" P.S. Next time, Dad, let us driveFURNISHED HOUSE FOR 5 OR 6 1) ROLL TIDE!! 
the jeep, okay? 
Found: Silver watch before AVAILABLE SPRING 1990. CALL U NEED CLEAN CLOTHES FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1. 1989Thanksgiving in Stud Govt office. 
ELMER 288-3942. I NEED$$$. GET READY!! SUPER COMBO IS
UNION STATION BADIN FRESHMAN "FORMAL" See secretary on 2nd floor of 284·4194. COMING TO THEODORE'S 
9AM·1 AM HAPPY HOUR!-T.F.B.AHD!
LaFortune to claim NEAR N.D. Clean and comfortable DEC9. apartments: ADOPTION · Well-educated 
Tickets $17.00 · LeMans &LOST FILM on Miami trip plane • 755 South Bend Ave, efficiency· couple eager to adopt a baby. 
Augusta Halls · 4:30·6:3011/26. lfyou found it please Cheerful home full of books. 
$225, 1 bedroom·$265. 
SENIORScall Pete at X1699. Thanks! '607 1/2 E. Corby. 1 bedroom· Fl.exible on sharing information SENIORS$295. With b1rthmother about child. Our SENIORSWanted Deposit, references . adoption agency can provide CM aka The Ice Princess 616·483·9572. counseling and references. 
"A CHRISTMAS AFFAIR" EARN $300·$500 PER WEEK Please call collect 309·827 ·3135 You are going to lose ourREADING BOOKS AT HOME. MALE/FEMALE HOUSEMATE eveslwknds for profile/photo. 
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1,1989CALL1·615·473·7440 EXT. James and Hollis. 
NEEDED FOR NEXT SEMESTER. bet! Remember. beware of 
8340. 
OWN BEDROOM. CLOSE TO " The Curse. " UNION STATION CAMPUS, HOUSE IN GREAT WANT TO TRADE HOUSING FOR 
9PM·1AM
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900·2000 
CONDITION. 120/MO. +UTIL TWO IN PALM BEACH CONDO JH mo. Summer,yr.round,AII PLEASE CALL 289·4621. FROM DEC. 31 THRU JAN. 3 FOR 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! 
Countries. All fields. Free info. 2 QUALITY TICKETS TO ORANGE 
IJArfOIA BIACH ,_lf2J•
Tickets $17.00 · LeMans and Write IJC. PO Bx 52·1N04, Corona Nice furnished homes for next BOWL GAME. (217)431·3126. Need all T·shirts 
7 NIG>ITS
Auqusta Halls from 4:30·6:30. 
,_,,,,.
Del Mar CA 92625. 
school year. Close to NO. 277· Call Tracy at 3865. 
SOUfH PADiliiiLAII
3097. HIAG! 
5 OR 7 NIGHTS
ATIENTION ·HIRING! 
To the guy in SDH on 11/21: 
SJUMIOAJ 
·-'•tn•
Government jobs · your area. Get your shopping done now... Thanks for making my day! 
2. 5 OR 7 NIGHTS
$17,840·$69.485. Call 1·602·838· before ~s too late! Elisabeth Shue LIVE!!!


FOR SALE 
,_,UUDIIDIU .....lfJI.
8885, EXT R6262. Take a trip to Chicago on the ED's PAINTING CO. 
'1 NIGHTS 
,_,,,.
RED 4·DOOR 1980 HONDA WINDY CITY SHUTTLE. THURS. NITE AT CLUB 23 
HfLJ'fll HUIIIUII
FEDERAL, STATE AND CIVIL ACCORD. CALL 3619. Tickets $1 ~available at the THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune 
7 NICH7S
SERVICE JOBSI NOW HIRING LaFortune Information Desk. MON·THUR 7:30AM to 11 PM THIS AREA! $10.271 TO 
eoii'US CHifSfl I
'86 HONDA ACCORD, 4 DOOR, FRI7:30AM to 11PM 
I'll"'.,.
$84,157. IMMEDIATE OPENINGS! 
M7UCIJWII
AIC, AM/FM STEREO TAPE, SAT noon to 6PM 
CALL1·315·733·6062 EXT STICK, 1 OWNER, TOP Challenge your skills in SUN noon to 11 PM Thank You St. Jude 
#F2382H FOR CURRENT 
CONDITION. $6300. 277·2560. billiards. Enter the LaFortune 6q: Copies-Printing-BindingLISTING. billiard tournament. WORMI!!I!!II 
XMAS AT DISNEY Entry fee is $5 at the WORM!I!!!!!! I need a ride to PURDUE, or 2 AT airline tix, SB·Orlando Gorch Games Room. PRETIY BOY(Yes, you Greg)· WORMI!II!!I! somewhere nearby, on Friday Dec. 12122·12126, $300 for both Tournament will be held I think this has gone on long WORM!!!II!I! 1 · will share $$$. If you can help, Please Call291·1120 December4·6. enough. Sorry for overreacting. THIS SATURDAY NIGHT THE 
call Clark #1436 FOREVER CHILDLESS WORM RETURNS 


-~~-...... 
Thursday, November 30, 1989 page 11
The Observer 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Landry criticizes Dallas coaching
Tony Rice was named Player of the Year by readers of football News. Rice tallied 416 points to outdistance run­nerup Major Harris, who had 264 points. Air Force quar­terback Dee Dowis took third followed by Indiana running back Anthony Thompson in fourth. 
Free skate will be held after Friday's hockey game against Mankato State. The free skate will begin immedi­ately following the 7:30 p.m. game and last until 11 p.m. 
Off-campus hockey will have a meeting for those inter­ested in being on the team at 5:30 p.m. Thursday in O'Hara Lounge of Lafortune. Call 271-8309 for more information. 
Irish Outdoors will have a semester planning meeting at 7 
p.m. Tuesday, Dec. 5, in Theodores. Spring break ski trip will be discussed. Call 271-9901 for more information. 
lnterhall football equipment return will take place Monday, Dec. 4. Call the NVA for specific return times. 
Water Polo Club will meet tonight at 8:30 p.m. in 109 O'Shag for all members. 
SENiORS 
"A Christmas Affair" Friday Dec. 1, 1989 
Union Station Time 9PM -1AM 
GREENVILLE, S.C. (AP) ­Dallas coach Jimmy Johnson may have chosen the wrong path for his team, predecessor Tom Landry says, and the Cowboys are in danger of wasting quarterback Troy Aikman's career. 
The Cowboys. who won only three games last year under Landry, are 1-11 with four games left in the regular season as Johnson embarks upon a rebuilding program accentu­ating youth. 
Landry, who was in Greenville on behalf of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes, said "only time will tell whether they're on the right road or not." 
"Everybody has their own thoughts," Landry said. But he said he would not follow the route Johnson is taking "because I believe a great deal in experience. I wou1d have tried to blend the experience with new people as you try to rebuild." 
The Seminoles are heavy fa­vorites to beat their arch-rivals

College 
for the third straight year, and 
continued from page 16 
Florida State's recent success 
Nothing better illustrates the can be traced to penalties harmful effects probation can Florida suffered after running have on a program than the afoul of NCAA regulations. 
Florida-Florida State rivalry. The 9ators, wi!lJ. tradition on 
WOMEN -MEN 
A 4 hour wal{-in test is being conducted by the Federal Aviation Administration at the following location: IUSB Northside Hall, Room 104, Northside Blvd. South Bend, Indiana 
December 2, 1989 at 9:00 am 
Buy Tickets at: 
Starting salary $19,493 with potential to $60,000. Aviation LeMans &Augusta 4:30 -6:30 .xt»rlent» Ia not r.qulrad! Excellent training, benefits and retiremer:rt plans. Must be under the age of 31 and a U.S citizen. 


S~NI?RS: ~~~~Sc, SE~IO~ ~ AnsqusJ"""""""=::·:~-.,.,. 
. . . . . . l L.....L~I&IIIIJ.I~f~r~~~~h~r~~oya!!JIIUIIWSilllllll.l....--1 
Landry was the only coach the Cowboys had in their first 29 years before being fired by new owner· Jerry Jones, who hired Johnson from the University of Miami. 
"The problem they're having is they're starting over again, getting rid of Herschel Walker and a number of older players," he said. "Now they've got a complete rebuilding program to do before they come back again. 
their side, have dominated the rivalry with Florida State, which was a women's college until the 1940s. 
When Florida was cited for 107 violations of NCAA rules in 1984, the Gators were kept from participating in a bowl for two seasons. The penalties did not harm the school's foot­ball program; the Gators recorded a combined record of 18-2-2 the next two years . 
During those two years, Florida also de­feated the Seminoles by respec­tive scores of 55-14 and 27-17. 
But the probation also limited 
the number of scholarships 
Florida could award, and the 
Gators are still paying the price 
for this penalty. Florida State 
took advantage of Florida's re­
strictions to get its best 
recruiting class ever in 1984. 
The Seminoles signed all-state 
tailback Sammie Smith, 
!f================================================ marking the first time Florida 
State had landed a blue-chip recruit from within the state that the Gators also wanted. 

I •
It eventually caught up with the Gators. After defeating Florida State on the field for six consecutive years, the Seminoles beat Florida 28-14 at Gainesville in 1987. 
Last season, the Seminoles trashed Florida 52-17 in Tallahassee, won the Sugar Bowl and ended the year ranked third in the coun!!Y_: 
/JOWl~: ®:@@ o 11 :@@ 
W!Cfl~OO~ IJCfl(J))~~Q OO@W 31@ 
Probation has ended, and the Gators have all their scholar­ships back, but recruiting in
!P~tJJ©~~ ®~tfJ©@OO ®@WI~ 
Florida now is a whole new ballgame. Whereas Florida used to rely on its tradition to lure any high school player it wanted, now the Seminoles are
?fm~~ ~!JU@~~ jj[j(J@ 

calling the shots. Of all the Florida high school recruits choosing between the Seminoles 
lf~tJJOO~!fi@~l!tJJ!fO@OO 
and Gators last spring, nearly every one chose to spend the -~~t f9ur year~_ i!!_ T_aJ!&lassee. 
SPRING BREAK Guaranteed Lowest Prices! Get Early Bird Savings.Third year running to Cancun, Rio, Bermuda 
®(J))~~~ ~~@WI WltfJOOO ©0~©~~ ~ 
®~@@ ~ ®~31@ 
and the Bahamas Call Doug at: 283-1818 
NOTRE DAME'S ANNUAL CAMPUS WIDE DEBATE SERIES SPONSORED BY STUDENT GOVERNMENT  REPRESENT YOUR HALL IN A CAMPUS WIDE DEBATE SERIES BETWEEN UNDERGRADUATES CONTACT YOUR HALL PRESIDENT DEADLINE DEC. lOTH A DEBATE WORKSHOP WILL BEHELD SUNDAY DEC. 3 FROM7-9AT THE LIBRARY AUDITORIUM  PRIZES: *$500 for the winning hall, individual prizes for team *$250 for first runner-up hall, individual prizes for team *individual prizes for consolation round winners *a traveling trophy for the winning hall *various prizes to be awarded on individual merit *t-shirts for all participants TEAMS: Each hall may sponsor a four-member debate team. At least two team members must be residents of the hall. The remaining team members may be drawn from the ND undergraduate population at large. At least twenty-six teams representing each residence hall and the off­campus population will compete during the month of February within a structured debate setting. Faculty members and grad. students will be invited to act as judges. CONTACT YOUR HALL PRESIDENT DEADLINE FRIDAY DECEMBER 10  


Thursday, November 30, 1989
page 12 The Observer 
Curry rises from insults to brink of national championship 
TUSCALOOSA. Ala. (AP) ­I lis Georgia Tech losing streak was ridiculed, and critics said Bill Curry wasn't an "Alabama man." Someone even threw a brick through his window. 
But win a few football games, and how things change. 
With a 10-0 record, Alabama is assured of at least a tie for the Southeastern Conference title heading into its game on Saturday at Auburn, and the Crimson Tide has moved up to a No. 2 national ranking, with a chance for No. 1. 
"We, as a staff. are obviously pleased to have been able to demonstrate that we can coach," Curry said. "But I don't 


Grant 
continued from page 16 
And of course I shed some 
tears when they dropped it to a 
club sport because I lost some 
friends (who left the team), but 
it's been great working with the 
team. It's like having an extra 
family." 
One member of Grant's extra 
family is Irish senior winger 
Bruce Guay. 
"Larry is a very loyal sup­porter of the team." praises Guay. "Despite the fact that he has to work and drive the Zamboni during the games, he is always there cheering us on. lie's very friendly to all the players." 
think in terms of vindication, of getting the guy down at the fill­ing station to believe that I'm good. That's just not important to me." 
Not when he was an under­sized, All-Pro center in the NFL. Not when he won only two games his first two years at Georgia Tech, his alma mater. Not when people doubted he could follow in the footsteps of Bear Bryant at Alabama. 
"I think I'm a good salesman. I used to sell women's shoes, and I'll guarantee you that's great training for anything," Curry said in an interview. "But you can't do that with a foot­ball team. You've got to earn 
Grant is so loyal to the team that he will try just about any­thing to draw the fans into the game. 
"For the Air Force game a couple of years ago I wore a tuxedo, tails and gloves. It was really neat. Of course the fans got into it, too, and I tipped my hat to them-it's nice to be that involved and I'm glad the stu­dents allow me to be that in­volved." 
But alas. Grant's job is not all fun and excitement. That same night the Air Force team bus refused to start in the parking lot, and Grant was summoned to the rescue. He turned the trick with a set of jumper ca­bles, and the Air Force team went on its way ... 





SObering
Advice ..···~ 
can 
alife 



~ANERS 
720 W. EDISON, MISHAWAKA Between Hickory and Grape 255-2001 
their respect. and that takes years." 
Alabama locked up at least a share of the SEC title three weeks ago with a victory over Louisiana State. The Tide can clinch it outright and earn a trip to the Sugar Bowl against Auburn, a team Curry has never beaten -not in seven years at Georgia Tech or two seasons at Alabama. 
Curry understands the impor­tance of the game. 
"It's Auburn. You've got to be able to beat your in-state ri­val," he said. 
As Curry walked off the field at Baton Rouge, there were chants of "We want Curry" and 
...The ice is almost totally resurfaced now, except for a thin strip against the boards where Grant's cheering section anxiously awaits his approach. As he zooms past his fans on his next-to-last drive-by, he tosses several handfuls of candy into the crowd. 
The new ice glistens as the fans cheer Grant. He turns around to make his final pass right up against the boards. The fans press closer to the boards and reach their hands high up over the panes of scratched plexiglass which sep­arate tnem rrom Grant. 
As he cruises by, Grant slaps he passed near a banner that read, "Curry, Our Next Winning Legend." 
Legend? Not many people thought of Curry as a future le­gend when then-Alabama President Joab Thomas named him to replace Ray Perkins in 1987. 
After all, Curry had a 31-43-4 record in seven years at "fech, once one of Alabama's most hated rivals. But Thomas, call­ing football a game and "nothing beyond that," talked as much about Curry's integrity and concern for academics as his coaching. 
Such talk was heresy to many 
Friday night lO:OOPM 
each of them an emphatic high five. Just before he leaves the ice surface, Grant stops the machine and gives the crowd his most spirited wave. llis fan club erupts again, and he rides off the ice surface and into the sunset on his Zamboni. .. 
"Larry does a great job," remarks Guay, "He needs to be commended for what he does. but it's too bad that not many people notice the little guys these days. He's very outgoing, he's very personable, and he's just a lot of fun to have around. Larry is a great part of Notre Dame and a great part of the team." 
NIGHTCLUB 
in the state, and Thomas re­
ceived death threats. 
The grumbling over Curry's hiring grew louder when Alabama lost to lowly Memphis State in 1987 and finished up a 7-5 campaign with three straight losses, including a 10­0 shutout to Auburn. Last sea­son. the Tide fell to Auburn again. blew a 15-0 lead against LSU to ruin the Tide's SEC title hopes, and even was beaten on homecoming by Mississippi. 
No one seemed to notice that Alabama finished 9-3 despite injuries. There were reports that wealthy alumni were trying to buy out the final three years of Curry's five-year contract. 
"THE ttJtJlUT KIDS... THE HtJrTUT MOVIEI" 
, •• IIKWIIUNI IUIJAZJNI 
*153 lhthinn • 4·50 lb. W1P111 *Dr1n·Up Window 
•llptr1tntod Drtp·OIJ i.JUDdl'l kn1ce I fr11 Sluonot *&lllldlnl on D•lY 11 Ill Times·) l.m.·lllidniflll 
*l'flitulonli 0rt Clull11 ltntc. *Lll~lld Pllkina loi • No Smoking Aru 
* luther I Sudt hnlc1 *Fnt C1H11 
.. Student Discounts 20% off Dry Cle•nlng 25 oil Top Load Washers whh Studenti.D. 
~----------~---­
--~ --~~----------------------------------------------------------------~----------------~ 
Thursday, November 30, 1989 
The Observer 
News, views from sports 
Handom thoughts on sports news across the country... 
NEWS: Free-agent catcher Tony Pena signs with the Boston Hed Sox for $6.4 million over three Years The next day 
~ · · Steve Megargee 
pitcher Bryn Smith 
signs with the St. Louis 
Cardinals for $6 Associate Sports 
million over three Editor 
years. 
VIEWS: I thought this kind of ridiculous spending ended in the late 1970s after the Los Angeles Dodgers took a bath on the Dave Goltz signing. Sure, the Red Sox are desperate for a catcher, but do you really think the aging Pena will be a quality starting catcher in 1992? 
As for Smith, -since when has a mediocre pitcher been worth $2 million a year? I wasn't surprised when George Steinbrenner, who never met a .500 pitcher he didn't like, signed Pascual Perez for this kind of money, but St. Louis is supposed to have a smarter organization than this. 
Worse yet, the Cardinals originally were thinking of offering Mark Langson (a 12-9 pitcher last year) an Anheuser-Busch brewery to pitch for the Cardinals. At this rate. San Diego Padres catcher Benito Santiago will be owning the McDonalds franchise in a few years. 
Montreal Expos president Claude Brochu, who has seen Perez, Smith and in the near future Langston flee south of the border, is 
blunt but accurate in describing the recent signings. "What we have right now is_ a market that's 
out  of control,"  he  said.  "Bryn's  a  good,  
average pitcher. That's wh at he is  -a  .500  
pitcher.  If you  triple  his  salary,  it's  not  

suddenly going to make him a 20-game winner." 
You've got to hand it to Brochu. He's losing just about his entire starting rotation, but at least he's kept his sanity. 
NEWS: Purdue upsets arch-rival Indiana 15-14 to regain the Old Oaken Bucket. 
VIEWS: Could somebody from Purdue show mercy on us all and throw the darned bucket in the ocean, so we football fans won't have to be subjected to late-season games between Big Ten doormats? 
NEWS: Twenty games into the Senior Professional Baseball League season, the Orlando Juice sits in last place of the the Northern Division. 
VIEWS: I don't really care what the Juice's record is right now. What bugs me is why the folks in Orlando can't come up with decent nicknames. They now have an NBA franchise and this geezer baseball team, and neither one of the team nicknames even has an "s" at the end. 
The Magic? Sounds to me like they named the team after a player on a different team. What happens if Orlando faces the Lakers, and Woolridge and Johnson have big games against this expansion team. We'll be stuck with a headline like "Orlando, Magic beat Orlando Mae:ir.~" 
The Juice? Since when do you name your team after a liquid? What's next? The New York Seltzer? The Long Island Iced Tea? 
Of course, with the Juice currently having its problems, newspaper editors across the country are having to resist the temptation to write that obvious headline, "O.J. on the rocks." 



THE ROOF THE ROOF 
THE ROOF 
ACT NOW! Space is limited. 

ICHIDULI1: 
AIFI ~AAE $340.00 South Bend Chaner to MlarTi -
Daoarnber 29 -January 2 
Phone:219-231-7010 
The following Ia the list of the 11r only space held for the Or~nge Bowl: 
page 13 

Seattle still searching in Bosworth mystery 
SEATTLE (AP)-Ever won­der what happened to "The Boz," that $11 million linebacker from Oklahoma? The Seattle Seahawks do. 
The Seahawks, who won a lottery to take Bosworth in the June 1987 supplemental draft, fear they may have seen the last of him. 
"I don't know, I can't answer that," Seahawks President Tom Flores said when asked whether Bosworth would ever play again. "Right now it looks a little tenuous." 
Bosworth's third NFL season -in which he is being paid $500,000 -is symbolic of the Seahawks' demise from AFC West champions to a 4-8, non­playoff team. 
"All I know right now, and the only thing that we can go on, is that the right shoulder was a similar injury to the left and the rehabilitation is simi­lar," Flores said. 
"Hopefully, the right one will be able to come back like the left one did. Then we'll have to re-evaluate it at that time. But right now we don't know." 
Bosworth's third season with the Seahawks consisted of two games and a dozen tackles be­fore he was forced out by a sore shoulder. That's $41,666 per tackle. 
A year ago he missed seven games, including the Seahawks' playoff game, because of an in­jured left shoulder, which re­quired arthroscopic surgery. His right shoulder didn't re­quire surgery. 
Except for his rookie season, he has been a virtual one­armed tackler. 
The man who was supposed to make a dramatic impact on the Seattle defense has become invisible, remembered more for his hairdo and his deodorant commercials than his tackling. 
His most memorable on-field performance was when he hit Bo Jackson at the 1-yard-line in a Monday night matchup with the Los Angeles Haiders. Bo beat the Boz and scored the touchdown. 
His pro career has consisted of 24 games and 175 tackles. 
Coach Chuck Knox danced at the team's headquarters in Kirkland and hugged then­General Manager Mike McCormack after the Seahawks got the right to pick Bosworth. Visions of a blond Dick Butkus danced in his head. 
The Seahawks signed Bosworth to a 10-year, $11 million contract. The NFL Players Association said the 
first five guaranteed. There have Butkus results.  years were been no Dick  
Flores  was  coaching  the  

Raiders when Bosworth arrived in Seattle, but he doesn't sec­ond guess McCormack or Knox for wanting Bosworth. All 28 NFL teams wanted the 6-foot­2, 236-pounder from Irving, Texas, who was selected as the nation's outstanding collegiate linebacker in 1985 and 1986. 

SCHEDULE2: SATURDAY. DECEMBER 30 Philadelphia ArnveMIM1i  8:Ma.m. 11:3-4a.m.  
THURSDAY. JANUARY 4 Miami Arrive Philadelphia  7:25a.m. 9:5.5 a.m.  
SCHEDULE 3: SATURDAY. DECEMBER 30 Leave Waahlng1on National ArriveMiani  9:00a.m. 11:34a.m.  
THURSDAY. JANUARY 4 Leave Mlani Arrive Washington National  7:35a.m. 10:02 a.m.  
SCH£DUL.E4; SATURDAY, DECEMBER 30 Laavo StLouis Arrive Atianla  1:eop.m. 4:3-4P.M.  
Leave Allanta Arrive Mlani  5:il0p.rn. 7:40p.m.  
THURSDAY, JANUARY 4 Leave Mlani  

·~a.m. 
Arrive Atianta 11:28 a.m. 
Leave Allanla 12:18 p.m. Arrive St. Louis 1:00p.m. 
SCHEDULE5: 
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 30 Leave New York LaGuardia 10:00 a.m. Arrive Mlani 12:1511 p.m. 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 5 Leave Mlani 9:45a.m. Arrtvo New Vorl< LaGuardia 12:42p.m. 
SCHEDULE&: 
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 30 Leave WashlngiOn National 2:00p.m. Arrive Mlani 4:30p.m. 
THURSDAY. JANUARY 4 
AIR FARE $2311.00 Pan Am 711 
Pan Am 710 
A!R FARE $290.00 Pan Am 493 
Pan Am492 AIR FARE $330.00 Easlofn 277 Eastern 90 
Eastern 158 
Eastern 272 
AIR FARE $280.00 Eastern 15 
.Eastern 18 
AIR FARE $270.00 Eastern 177 
' 
Leave Mlani 11:3~ a.m.• ¥ Eastern 172 Arrive Washington National 1:S3 p.m. 
Un11ed 139 AIR FARE $2118.00 

ICHiiuutt:  AIR FARE $305.00  
FRIDAY,~8  
~  CNa9 ()'Hire  1:00 a.m.  UnlldiM  
_w.......,.o...  8:45a.m.  
~w~o...-W.O.-­ 1:10 a.m. 11:48a.rn.  Unlld 11CI7  
FRIDAY; JAHUAIIY I  
~· Fort Lauder~  1:15 a.m.  Unlld11il  
-W-nglonO...  11:38 a.m.  
Leave WMhlngll>n Dullea  1:48p.rn.  Unlldrt1  
-Chlc90'Hn  2:48p.m.  
ICHEIIULI t2:  AIR FAN: 1211.00  
FRIDAY, DECEMBEII :18  
~ NHYortcLIIGu....  7:Q0a.ll\  Unlld 1147  
- Waohlnglon Dulel  1:13 a.m.  
~ WM!inglon OuiiM  I:Gia.m.  Unlld11111  
-Fortl.al....  11:11 a.m.  
FRIDAY, JN«JAAY II ~Fort~-w-..,Dutea  ......... 1:45p.m.  UnlldtiP  
~w.........,o...  1:35 p.m.  IJMIIIIIft  
- NH Yortc LIIGu•dla  10:43 p.m.  
ICHEIIULI t3:  Alii FARE 1211.110  
FRIDAY, D£CEMIIER :18  
l.MveW~tlu­ ·-a.m.  Unlld11111  
- Fort LAiuclonWe  11:38a.m.  
FRIDAY, JAHUAAY 5  
Leave Fort Lauderdale  6:15p.m.  Unlld11117  
-W~nDulel  8:45p.m.  
ICHEIIULI t4:  

Dlloounll n eYolallla on U.S.Air tllghlo 11om lllllllr..._ • 
Ml..n, Fort Lauderdale and Weol Palm -· TnMI Wid 0.. oambar 21 "' January •. CIIJJ lor ...... 
EDUCATION FOR THE RFAL WORLD 
Graduate degree programsPhD) in International with an emphsis on policy-relevant 

cial aid available. Apply byFebruary 15. 
GRADOO'E SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL S11JDIES UNNERSITY OF MIAMI P.O. BOX 248123 CORAL GABLES, FL 33124-3010 (305) 284-4173 
SCHEDULE7: 
SUNDAY. DECEMIIER 31 Leave Chicago O'H.,. Arrive Ml..n 
FRIDAY. JAHUARY 5 Leave Miami Arrive Chicago O'Hn 
SCHEDULE 8: SATURDAY. DECEMBER 31 "*-Chicago o·.-. 
An1va Washlng1on 0... 
Leave Washlnglon 0... An1vaMlani FRIDAY, JAHUARY 5 Leave Mlani -Cliclogo O'Hare 
SCHEDUU!I: 
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 28 
Leave Loa~ -San Francl8co 
Leave San Frand8co -MI..n 
SATURDAY. JANUARY 8 Leave Ml..n -San Francloco 
Leave San Frand8co 
An1val.ol~ 
satEDULE to: THURSDAY. DECEMBER 28 Leave San Frand8co 
SATUIIDAY, JAHUAAY 8 l..aaw Mlani Arrive San Franclaco 
7:40a.m. 
11:38 a.m. 
7:00a.m. 9:06a.m. 
11:1!1Lrn. 
1:63 p.m. 
5:o5p.m. 7:48p.m. 
12:35 p.m. 
1:31 p.m. 
12 ,_., 
1:24 p.m. 
1:151lp.m. 
10:11 p.m. 
7:40a.m. 10:41a.m. 
12 noon 
1:11 p.m. 
1:i!llp.m. 
10:11 p.m. 
7:40a.m. 10:47a.rn. 
AIR FAAE $218.00 UniWdiU 
u.-220 
u.-1535 
Unlled 1:18 
AIR FAAE $311.00 Unllad 1110 
Unlled­
~Unlld n7 
Unilld-
Alii FARE $318.00 Unllad 11110 
Unllad 7ff1 
Other Packages Available -Ask for Details 

Thursday, November 30, 1989 
page 14 The Observer 

Mac displays 
Lewis will not attemptflashes of old 
to enter 1990 Games

with victory 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Carl "They say I'm always trying NEW YORK (AP) -Hinting Lewis said Wednesday he would to bully my way in. That's not try to "bully my way" into wrong. I don't do that."
that this is his Masters 
the 1990 Goodwill Games, de­The Goodwill Games formatfarewell, John McEnroe dis­spite a ruling that excludes called for eight competitors in
played flashes of brilliance Wednesday night as he returned those who don't compete in each event. including two from victorious to Madison Square next year's national outdoor the United States, two from the championships. Soviet Union and four of the
Garden. 
The rule was passed by the top-ranked eight in the world.
"Playing in the Garden for the International Competition Under that plan, even if Lewis last time, that's what I'm using Committee of The Athletics did not compete in the national
to motivate myself here to get to the semifinals," McEnrile Congress. The Goodwill Games championships, he could have said after his 5-7, 6-3, 6-2 de­are in Seattle July 20-Aug. 5. filled one of the wild-card 
"If they want me to be there, spots.
feat of Aaron Krickstein. ''I'd 
like to play (Boris) Becker or I'll be there. If not, I won't be Lewis said he planned to take there," said Lewis, a six-time off from competition for the
(Stefan) Edberg again. I hope I 
can do that." Olympic medalist. first half of next year to help Lewis boycotted this year's promote his book, to be pub­
Becker then took the court championships in his hometown lished in early 1990, and tofor his second straight victory, of Houston because of work with the University of6-1, 6-3 over Andre Agassi, "ideoJogical differences" with Houston's
who suffered his second con­young sprinters. 
TAC, the national governing which he had promised to do.
secutive defeat in the round­
bgdy for the sport. Still, Lewis, who has had arobin portion of this year-end­He said he did not plan to long-time feud with TAC, wasing tournament. 
compete in the 1990 national not happy with the decision. 
But it was McEnroe's stage, 
and he put on a starring per­championships, to be held in "They're trying to force ev­California in June, because he eryone to go into the TAC
formance, hitting seemingly would not be prepared to run meet," he said. 
impossible volleys, delicate 
until July. Tonie Campbell, 1988 Olympic 
drop shots and precision 
The Lewis-led boycott, which bronze medalist in the men'sgroundstrokes. 
caused several other top ath­110-meter hurdles. agreed withAt times, he showed perfect letes to skip the championships, Lewis.
recall of his glorious past, 
complete with temper was the main reason for the "You shouldn't force an ath­committee's action. The ab­lete to run in it to qualify for
tantrums. 
sence of Lewis and the others another meet," he said. 
"I was in a little more danger was
than I wanted to be," McEnroe was part of the reason the "The Athletes Act that
AP Photo 
Houston Sports Association, fi­passed in 1978 stated that ath­said. "I hit the ball well, but I 
Boris Becker won Wednesday night in the Nabisco Masters tourney in 
nancial supporters of the meet, letes had the right to choosemade some careless shots. I 
New York, the final event of the pro tennis season. their meets. are
lost about $35,000. Those rights
thought I was playing pretty well, but when you play him it's to a 2-0 lead, McEnroe looked to the net, punched a loose International Competititon being taken away. They're not a very emotional match, so like the man who has won this forehand volley wide, then Committee chairman John telling us where to run. you have to pace yourself." season-ending tournament yelled, "Is that phone going to Champlin, a coach at "I don't think anyone has the 
Yet, the demons that have ac­three times, the last in 1985. ring all the time?" Washington State, said excep­right to tell us where we should companied his brilliance He won 14 of the next 15 McEnroe complained about a tions could be made if an ath­compete. I have the right to do throughout his career also points, including love games in noise that no one else, com­lete is injured or ill and is un­what I want. They want to have emerged on the Madison the fourth and fifth games, and pletely engrossed in the tennis able to compete in the champi­control over my destiny." Square Garden carpet. held a love-30 lead on action on the court, remem­onships. Auburn's Mel Rosen. 1992 
After Krickstein jumped out Krickstein's serve when he went bered hearing. "Then our executive commit­men's Olympic coach and 
tee would discuss it and make a chairman of TAC's men's track ruling," he said. and field committee, disagreed
Nadia Comaneci flees from Romania The Goodwill Games are being with Lewis and Campbell. VIENNA. Austria lAP) -For lled on Wednesday across the mission to work or even travel put together by Ted Turner and "If we're going to have a 
will be telecast on his Turner track group, then athletes.
more than a decade, Nadia border to Hungary, telling bor­abroad. although she had re­ceived numerous offers and in­Broadcastimt Svstem. Lewis coaches, everybody, has to sup­Comaneci was a pampered role der guards she abandoned her 
model for Romanian youth, homeland. her eight-room villa vitations, according to the has been doing publicity for the port our national champi­Hungarian government-run event. onships," Rosen said. "I have
spurring on thousands of and financial security "for the 
news agency MTI. He denied a published report been a firm believer of thataspiring gymmnastic champi­sake of freedom." 
quoting him as saying, "It's since we started TAC.
ons with visions of the Olympic The 28-year-old Comaneci, At the tender age of 14, 
now a coach. said the govern­Comaneci astounded the world Ted Turner's millions against ''I've been disappointed thatglory she had won. 
at the 1976 Montreal Olympics TAC. TBS gets what it wants." we haven't had our best people
The Olympic superstar­ment of President Nicolae 
by winning three gold medals. "My contract with Turner has at the national championships.
turned-Hero of Socialist Labor Ceausescu had denied her per-
nothing to do with me compet­I'm hoping this will give us the There was freshman phenom viding the tina! link in the Irish ing," Lewis said. "That's not in best TAC meet we've had in 
Monty Williams. continuing to pu~zle, leaving people shaking the contract. many years. I was disappointedDream amaze everyone with his versa­thetr heads at the potential for 
"If I go to the Goodwill by the defections this year." tility, showing he can handle, this team when he returns. Games. it will be because TAC Edwin Moses, and Calvin continued from page 16 rebound and shoot the ball as wants me and Turner wants Smith, Olympic bronze medalist 
assist. aiding Singleton in well as play defense, becoming There was Digger Phelps, me, not because I force my way in the 100-meter dash, sided keeping the pressure on San one of three Notre Dame play­looking calm and collected as in. It won't be me.... with Hosen. Francisco point guard Kevin ers in double figures with 12 ever in his new suit, showing 
Bell. points, leaving people wonder­the carnation is really dead, •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
•
There was Daimon Sweet, re­ing what he will do for an en­prodding and planning with •
DESTINATIONS UNLIMITED •
ceiving the alley-oop, playing core. Denver in the back of his mind, 
• 
pressure defense, showing the There was Tim Crawford, the a sense of urgency in his voice, •
•
quickness and spark that the crowd favorite, shooting the a sense that this team can goIrish will need from him off the baseline jumper, ending the places. . , ~
"lVhere ~ervice Is Unlimited~'' 
bench. game just shy of his career highThere was Kevin Ellery, still with four points, looking like he This season definitely could Join Us At The i· -·~ · : nursing an ankle injury, on the could start for some other be exciting. Funny things hap­•
• 
way to regaining the form he schools. pen over long stretches of time. • had in last year's Big Four There was LaPhonso Ellis, •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• •• Classic, scoring two points and cheering with the same fervor But for now, let the dream • getting a pair of boards. as he scored last season, pro-begin. 








ORANGE BOWLl 
•
•
• •
•
• December 29th -January 2nd
•
•
• STARTING AT 8699
• •
•
•
• Package Includes: 
•
• t Nonstop air from South Bend I Gwle ticketS
• 
t Tnnsfers, tn: and gratuity I Deluxc hotel accomm<Xhtions
*PARTY CRUISE to and from the game! * Call DESTINATIONS Ul\LIMITED At 234-9099 l-800-373-2918 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------~ 
Thursday, November 30, 1989 The Observer page 15 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
6:30 p.m. Workshop. Kitty Arnold. Director of Career ACROSS 27 On the Caspian 53 Cries of protest and Placement Services. "Office Visits/Plant Trips" part of 1 Costa loser 30 "Appointment in 55 Areas in 
--":O'Hara
the series "Learn What To Expect on Second Interviews." 5 Pol. plum perspective 35 Rhyme scheme drawings
Hesburgh Library Lounge. Sponsored by Career and 9 Threading tools Placement Services. 13 Holding tool 37 --St. Vincent 64 Hick 
Millay
14 Feminist 65 Musician Previn 
39 More rational 
7:45 p.m. Workshop. Jean Elshtain, Centennial Professor Germaine-­
66 Straightedge40 Tools on the
of Political Science. Vanderbilt University. "Thinking 15 President of 
67 FlagU.S.S.R. flag
About Women and Power." 131 Decio Faculty Hall. Albania 
43 Karl Marx's 68 Wagon tongues 
Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute. 16 Anti, Dogpatch 
birthplace
style 69 Jewish month 17 Singer Travis 
44 Labyrinth
noon Brown Bag Lecture. James Sterba, Professor of 70 Fishing traps 18 Tex. product 45 Power-plant
Philosophy. Faculty Fellow. Institute for International 71 Ragout
prod.
19 D.C. locale 
Peace Studies. "Feminism and Perestroika," Room 101 
72 "She's Leaving 46 Playground22 Jasmine or 
Law School. Sponsored by the Institute for International --," Beatles
devicetw;:tnkay
Peace Studies. song
48 Antitoxins Symington 50 Zeta follower 23 Politician 
4:30 p.m. Lecture and Workshop. Francois Rigolot, 
24 Noisy town in 51--Paulo, DOWN
Department of Homance Languages and Literatures, 
Iran? Brazil 
Princeton University. "lntertextuality and Literature: the 1 Of grandparents Case of Henaissance France and Italy." Hoom 122 Hayes­2 Start of a 1928 Healy. The workshop will be Friday, December 1 at 10:00 song title 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
a.m. in the llesburgh Library Lounge. 3 Supposing 4---arms (horse soldiers) 
5Smell-(be suspicious) 34 Asian palm 55 Film crewman
MENUS &Confined 361owacity 56 Kind of bonds or 7 Footlike parts 38 Wood-trimming 
dollars tool 57 Sad news item,8 Rendezvous 
Notre Dame 
for short 41 Wipe the slate 
9 Banned 42 Juan's shawls 58 G.l. diner 
BBQ Ribs 
59 Inactive47 Amerindian
Baked Cajun Cod 
threads 60 Kidd's hands 
Hot Pastrami Sandwich 
49 Piercing tool 61 Naked, in Napoli
Vineyard Veg w/ Cheese 
52 "To be--to be 62 Ancient Persian ...": Shak. Gulf kingdom 54 Singer Vaughan 63 Parched 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON GARY LARSON 


WILBUR AND WENDEL JAY HOSLER 




D u s T N 
H0FFMAN 

M 
BARRY LEVINSON 






RAINMAN_117 



Sports 
Thursday, November 30, 1989
page 16 

All I have to go on is a 20-point victory over San Francisco, but I think this is going to be an exciting season for the Notre Dame men's basketball team. 
There was senior co­

captain Joe Fredrick, 
Greg Guffey
scoring 16 points in 26 minutes, dishing out Assistant Sports four assists, even 
Editor
pulling down five rebounds, working the 
give-and-go with Keith Robinson. leading the break and basically doing the things that have come to be expeeted from him. 
There was senior co-captain Jamere Jackson, tallying seven points, playing trademark steady defense, pressuring and harassing on the front of the press, finding the open man, all in the quiet fashion that makes him so valuable of a leader. 
There was senior Keith Robinson, amassing a career-high 26 points on near-perfect shooting, looking stronger and more confident, calling instead of waiting for the ball. shedding an invisible image for the spotlight, making a statement to remaining big men on the Irish schedule. 
There was Scott Paddock, scoring nothing but contributing everything, yanking down four rebounds, helping to hold San Francisco center Scott MacDonald 14 points under his season average. giving help-side defense, providing a solid base for the Irish press. 
There was Tim Singleton, the general leading the charge, handing out nine assists to inch closer to David Rivers' school-record career total. grabbing four steals, not missing in two field-goal attempts. being the all-around player on one of the deepest teams in Notre Dame history. 
There was Keith Tower, coming off the bench to help out in the middle, scoring four points, hitting a pair of free throws. pulling down four boards, showing that his hard work in the off-season should pay dividends, realizing his role, doing everything he must do to help this team. 
There was Elmer Bennett, launching the alley-oop to the other half of the "Texas Express," nailing the jumper from the baseline, putting seven points on the board, contributing 1 0 others through the art of the 
see DREAM I page 14 
Ware, Thompson leading pack 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 
In a Heisman Trophy race that seemingly never had a frontrunner. Saturday's final announcement may depnnd on what voters decided to turn in their ballots early. 
Houston quarterback Andre Ware and Indiana tailback Anthony Thompson appear to be the most likely to win the award, presented annually to the player voted the best in col­lege football that season. It earlier looked as though Thompson would win the award. in part because of the problems facing Ware's team. 
With Houston being on pro­bation this season, and thus away from the television cam­eras, not many voters have b1~en able to watch Ware. Other voters refuse to vote for a player from a school on proba­tion. Houston's run-and-shoot offense, which has become the run-up-the-score attack all too often this season, may have turned off more voters. 
But Thompson did nothing to help his candidacy last week­end. In a shocking 15-14 loss to Purdue. Thompson was held to less than 100 yards. Anybody who saved a ballot until after 


Anthony Thompson 
last weekend's games might have seen the Purdue perfor­mance, remembered Thompson's subpar outings in big games against Michigan and Illinois, and decided to vote for someone besides the Hoosier. 
Notre Dame's Tony Rice and West Virginia's Major Harris also did nothing to impress voters last week. Rice, who was being touted as the "all he does is win" candidate failed to meet that requirement for the first time in two weeks. Harris was solid, but not spectacular, against a vastly overrated Syracuse team. 
That leaves Ware, who will not get too many sympathy votes from people who disap­prove of Jack Pardee's pump up the offense style of play. but who has received a great deal of publicity lately and has done nothing to hurt his candidacy in recent weeks. 
The contest is starting to re­semble the 1987 race, when Notre Dame's Tim Brown faded at the end of the season while Syracuse quarterback Don McPherson made a charge. Brown ended up winning with surprising ease because a good number of voters had turned in their ballots before he played his two worst games of the season against Penn State and Miami. 
If the voters act the same way as they did two years ago, look for Thompson to get the nod (and for Rice to be closer than most people expect). If they de­cided to hold on to their ballots for a while, the trophy belongs to Ware. 
Ironically, Ware will not be present at the Downtown Athletic Club awards ceremony. Houston is playing at Rice this Saturday. Another finalist, Florida tailback Emmitt Smith, also will be absent, as his Gators host Florida State this weekend. 
see COLLEGE! page 11 
Irish swimmers ready for National Catholics 

By MARY GARINO 
Sports Writer 
The last meet of the fall semester will be the toughest for the Notre Dame men's and women's swimming teams. 
The Irish travel to New York City for the third annual National Catholic Meet, which takes place at Fordham University. The events will begin today with the men's diving competition and continue over the weekend with the individual 

swimming and relay events. 
Tim Welsh
The Notre Dame squads will 
try to improve on last year's recently. and tlw only two Irish 
performances when both plaeed losses h<tve corn<\ by slim mar­
fourth in the meet, but the gins. competition this year will be "Wp think that we are com­some of the stiffest the Irish petitive," Welsh said. "We are have seen so far this s1~ason. still a team of balance and 
depth. But all nirwteen women 
The Irish men's squad, nPnd to have excellent meets." boasting a 7-0 record, will go up against swimming power­ThP key for both the men and houses like Villanova and women will be the relay events. LaSalle, last year's first and according to Welsh. second plaee finishers, respec­"If we win a couple of the tively. They will probably be the races we think we can win. and teams to beat from the field of place our relays near the top, 12 on the men's side. But head we're in the hunt all the way," coach Tim Welsh says that the he said. Irish arc also ready to make an impaet. The program for the me1~t 
"Our meet objective is to has the qualifying races in the move up," he said. "We think morning and the final events in we have a more balanced squad the evening. The Irish will ar­in a championship meet. Our rive in New York just in time early season meets have been for the diving events. and de­very fast and our training has part for South Bend on Sunday been very successful." to rnturn in time for Monday 
classes. 
The women's team will put its 5-2 record up against Boston The National Catholics has College, the champion of the been the focal point of the fall meet for the last two years. season for the Irish ever since Also fighting for the women's the meet was created three title will be the Villanova years ago by Notre Dame, women's sqaud, which has al­Villanova and Fordham. The ready beaten BC earlier this first annual National Catholic year. meet was held at Notre Dame. 
Welsh is confident that the "This is a meet we believe in." Irish can attain their goal of Welsh said. "It's a good way to moving up in the rankings. end the first semester and a Notre Dame has trained well good tnst of our program." 
Grant becomes icon at N D hockey games 
The crowd buzz<\S with idlP chatter 
in the north dome of th<\ .Joyce ACC as 
the first period of the Notre Dame 
hockey squad's second game in two nights against lloly Cross draws to a e. 
close. 
The horn sounds to end tlw pPriod, ~ 
and the players retreat to their re­
..J
I
spective dressing rooms. It has been a 
very one-sided first stanza-the Irish Ken Tysiac lead 5-1 after defeating Holy Cross 10-Sports Copy Editor 4 the previous night-and the quiet crowd seems indifferent to the outcome of the game. 
Suddenly a gutteral growl bursts out from underneath the bleachers. Jumping quiekly to their feet, a large group of students belts out a cheer. They begin to chant, "ZAM­BO-NI! ZAM-BO-NI! ZAM-BO-NI! ZAM-BO-NI!" 
They shout their approval as senior Zarnboni driver Larry Grant brings his machine onto the iee surface. Dressed in jeans and a navy blue winter coat. Grant waves triumphantly and begins to circle the ice on the huge rna­chine, leaving a trail of new ice behind him ... 
"I feel I'm working for the students," says Grant, "And of course I'm working for the team. IN can draw the students in to help cheer the team on, that's all the better." 
A slight grin creeps over Grant's face, and it's not diffi­cult to imagine the thoughts passing through his mind's eye. He sees the bleachers filled with thousands of hockey fans who lend their voices to support the team to which he has dedicated himself for the past 1 0 years. 
"!Iockey is my favorite sport," says Grant, a tall man in his mid-thirties with kind eyes and a shy grin, ''I've had a lot of good experiences with past teams, like the ones that went up to Joe Louis Arena (in Detroit) and won pennants. 
-

EV"J!S FEA-TURES 
RAs =DEAs 
The U. of North Texas Student Association recently passed a resolu­tion allowing RAs to search dorm rooms for drugs. 
-Page3 
OPINIONS 
Ticket miser 
A student parking enforcer at the 
U. of California, Irvine, tells tales of being the most hated man on campus. 
-PageS 
SPECIAL REPORT 
In Search of... 
The first of several U. Special Reports explores the role of students in the selection of college and univer­sity administrators. 
-Page 12 
DOLLARS AND SENSE 
Sizing the competition 
Washington State U. business stu­dents are studying Japanese to under­stand their competitors and to get an edge over other American students. 
-Page 15 
STUDENT BODY 
I 
Graduating athletes 
Congress is considering legislation that would force universities to make graduation rates of student-athletes public record. 
-Page 17 
Lab tests suggest 4condom models fail to stop AIDS 
By Doug Fishback 
• University Daily Kansan 
U. of Kansas 
Four major condom types failed to con­tain the AIDS virus in recent U. of California, Los Angeles, lab tests. 
The research showed that Trojan Naturalube, Trojan Ribbed and LifeStyles Conture each failed one out oflO tests, and six of24 Contracept Plus condoms failed to block the transmis­sion of the virus, the Los Angeles Times reported. 
William Buck, the gynecologist at the 
U. of Kansas health center, said the risk 
of acquiring a sexually transmitted dis­ease could be reduced butnot eliminated 
See CONDOMS, Page 23 
1 
Justice Department suspects schools of price-fixing, antitrust act violations 
By Mike Elliott 
• Amherst Student 
Amherst College 
More than 50 colleges and universi­ties, including all the Ivy League schools, are being investigated by the federal gov­ernment for allegedly conspiring to set tuition prices. 
According to Justice Department Spokeswoman Amy Brown, the Department is conducting a "civil antitrust investigation to examine tuition and financial aid practices at sev­eral colleges throughout the country" for possible violations of the Sherman Antitrust Act. The Act prohibits any con­spiracy to set prices for a commodity ­in this case, education. 
Brown would not name the schools nor comment further on the exact nature of the investigation. 
Fifty-one schools have acknowledged receivinginvestigative demands, includ­ing Amherst, Harvard, Princeton, Stanford, U. of Chicago, U. of Southern California and Yale. 
Amherst College Treasurer James Scott denied the accusations of price-fix­ing. "If you look at the data, tuitions are distributed over a bell-shaped curve. They are only looking at a sliver of the high end ofthe curve. Ifyou look at cars, you will see the prices vary according to a bell-shaped curve. To take the high end and then say 'price-fixing' is hogwash." 
The investigation comes after nine 


Collusion? 
The tuition policies of the five colleges below are among those under investigation by the Justice Department. 
HARVARD MIDDLEBURY TUFTS WILLIAMS 
WESLEYAN 

t6,000 16,500 17,000 17,500 18,000 18,500 19,000 19,500 
COST/YEAR' 
*costs include tuition, fees, and room and board 
consecutive years of tuition increases greater than the rate of inflation. Thition and fees for four-year private colleges rose an average of9 percent this fall, and some schools instituted double-digit increases for the 1989-90 academic year. 
According to Scott, there has been lit­tle official explanation about what prompted the investigation. 
Scott said Amherst uses a two-step process to determine its tuition level. His office first makes a projection of the rev­enue needed to meet the costs ofthe com­ing year. The administration then uses 

ALBERT MARTINEZ, THE NEW MEXICO DAILY LOBO, U. OF NEW MEXICO Since U. of New Mexico student David Danemann suffered astroke at the age of 21, he must use apaddle to prevent his hand from curling into afist when he swims. 
li&Jt£!;'!!1989·90 costs 
SOURCE: The College Board and individual colleges 
data from the previous year to compare the projection to what other colleges may charge. 
At no time, he said, does the adminis­tration communicate with other colleges until the tuition figure is set. 
He alleged, however, that other col­leges do communicate about their plans for tuition increases before those figures are set. 
"Other colleges wantto know whatyou are going to do next. It is quite common for us to receive phone calls from other 
See TUITION, Page 2 
Triathlete rebuilds life after paralyzing stroke 
By Mary Deckert 
• The New Mexico Daily Lobo 
U. of New Mexico 
David Danemann felt guilty for not going to class on that Monday morning in 1987. When he finally pulled himselfout of bed at three in the afternoon to run to the gym, he had no way ofknowing that within an hour he'd be lying in the gravel, the left side of his body paralyzed by a stroke. 
Danemann, now 23, has spent the last two years rebuilding his life through physical rehabilitation and counseling and coming to terms with the limitations the stroke has imposed on his body. 
The stroke is still clear in Danemann's memory. He was running as part of his training for a triathalon when he lost control of the left side ofhis body. He remembers feeling overcome with drowsiness and a desire to lie down on the road, within a few feet of the speeding traffic, and go to sleep. 
See STROKE, Page 23 



Tuition 
Continued from page 1 
colleges" about the tuition increase before it has been announced, Scott said. He said such sharing of information probably could be construed as price-fix­ing. 
York College President Robert Iosue suggested that schools regularly share information about tuition and faculty salaries among their cohorts. "Having been in this business for many years, I know information is being shared, but whether or not this is price-rigging only a court can decide." 
He said, "If you look at the statistics for the last 10 years, you either believe little cohorts of colleges are sharing information, or the whole law of statis­tics is wrong." 
The federal probe marks an effort to uncover any communication between schools that could constitute price-fix­ing, and could lead the Justice Department to file civil charges against schools involved. 
Roger Kingsepp, a Wesleyan U. stu­dent, filed a suit in a New York court against 12 of the colleges, including his own, after the investigation became pub­
lic. He is asking for triple damages for all current students at the schools and former students who qualify under statutes of limitations. 
In addition to potential court losses, Scott said the investigative demand requires schools to submit vast amounts of information at great expense, includ­ing all financial records, admissions records, memos, correspondence, meet­ing agendas, telephone logs and even personal diaries from the last five years. 
Sheldon E. Steinbach, general counsel for the American Council on Education, described this request as including "not rooms full, but warehouses full of docu­ments" in a Chronicle of Higher Education article. 
Studv shows: 
Homosexuals twice as likely to abuse drugs 
By Gail Griffin 
• The Daily Northwestern Northwestern U. 
Homosexuals are twice as like­ly as heterosexuals to become vic­tims of substance abuse, accord­ing to a recent study. 
According to statistics pub­lished by the Pride Institute in Eden Prairie, Minn., 33 percent of the gay and lesbian community is chemically dependent, as com­pared to about 12 percent of the general population. 
Terry, the manager of a Chicago center for homosexuals recover­ing from substance abuse, said the lack of alternatives to the bar scene is one reason for the high number. 
Between 500 and 700 people attend weeklymeetingsattheNew Town Alano Club, including mem­bers of Alcoholics Anonymous, Narcotics Anonymous and Adult Children ofAlcoholics. 
Pride Institute Admissions Counselor Michael Witt, a homo­sexual, recovering alcoholic and drug user; also attributed the high rate of alcoholism to the stig­ma of being a lesbian or gay man in today's society. "Personally, the need for escape is not only justi­fied butexacerbated by being gay, because of our inability to accept ourselves," he said. 
The president of Northwestern U.'s Gay and Lesbian Alliance, David Munar, agreed. "I think if they were proud enough, and had enough self-confidence to admit they were gay, they wouldn't have the problem," the sophomore said. 
i 
Schools work to balance conduct codes 
I 
with students' First Amendment rights 
I By Amy Rosenfeld 
• The Stanford Daily Stanford U. 
A recent outbreak of racial incidents on campuses across the country has sparked vigorous debate over how far a university can go in prohibiting harass­ment without violating First Amendment rights. 
Several schools, including the U. of Michigan, Brown U., Emory U., the U. of Wisconsin system and the U. of California system, established new anti­harassment policies or amended exist­ing student conduct codes this year. 
Michigan's policy overturned 
The question of whether these policies violate an individual's right to freedom of expression was tested this fall when a 
U. of Michigan code was ruled unconsti­tutional in U.S. District Court. 
The first such challenge to a university harassment policy, the suit was filed by the American Civil Liberties Union on behalf of a Michigan graduate student. 
The policy, implemented last spring, deemed punishable behaviors such as hanging a Confederate flag on a dorm door or saying women are not as skilled in sports as men, according to Michigan Daily reporter Noah Finkel. 
Michigan attorney Elsa Cole, who wrote the original policy, said it was motivated by a series of incidents, including racist fliers in dorms and racist jokes broadcast on the campus radio station. 
Robert Sedler, theACLU attorney who represented the student, described the language ofthe policy as "overbroad and vague," adding, "You can't prohibit ideas no matter how offensive they are." 
There were about 45 complaints filed under the policy, but only one went all the way to a hearing, Cole said. She stressed that in every case where a stu­dent was disciplined, the punishment was agreed upon by each party involved. 
However, Stanford Law Professor Gerald Gunther called the history of 
__.........,... 
_.........­
MARSHALL RAMSEY, THE DAILY BEACON. U. OF TENNESSEE, KNOXVILLE 
cases examined under the Michigan pol­icy a "horror story." Gunther said most of the Michigan complaints were filed by white students against minority stu­dents. He believes this was, to some extent, the opposite of the policy's origi­nal intent to protect minority students. 
In one instance, Gunther said, a black student used the term "white trash" when talking with a white student, who later filed a complaint. The black stu­dent was required to write a three-page letter of apology to the white student. In other instances, students were required to write apologies for publication in the campus newspaper. 
Stanford's controversy 
The debate heated up at Stanford when the Student Conduct Legislative Council, the body responsible for changes in the behavior code, proposed a controversial interpretation of the uni­versity's Fundamental Standard. 
The initial interpretation asserted that all members of the Stanford com­munity have a right to be free from attacks which "by accepted community standards degrade, victimize, stigma­tize or perjoratively characterize them on the basis of personal, cultural or intel­lectual diversity." The action was precip­ita ted by a number of events on campus, including the posting of racist fliers and the repeated harassing of an RA by a stu­dent who made homophobic remarks. 
Outcry from community members led to a revamping of the proposal. 
The second interpretation narrowed offenses to "harassment by vilification" and "fighting words" which are addressed directly to an individual or group of persons and "commonly under­stood to convey, in a direct and visceral way, hatred or contempt of those people" on the basis of race, handicap, religion, sex or sexual orientation. 
The term "fighting words" comes from a 1942 U.S. Supreme Court case which qualified the First Amendment to pro­hibit speech directed toward an individ­ual or group of individuals which is likely to evoke a violent reaction. 
Because Stanford is a private univer­sity, the court decision involving Michigan is "not directly relevant," Law Professor Thomas Grey said. However, the administration wants to be consis­tent with the Constitution, he said. 
Debate at other schools 
Emory, Brown, and the Wisconsin and UC systems also have adopted ant.· , See POLICIES, Page 5 • 
Schools suspected of antitrust violations 
Agnes Scott College  Denison U.  Princeton U.  
Albion College  Earlham College  Randolph-Macon  
Antioch U.  Goucher College  Women's College  
Amherst College  Hamilton College  Skidmore College  
Barnard College  Harvard U.  Smith College  
Bates College  Hollins College  U. of Southern California  
Bennington College  Hope College  Stanford U.  
Bowdoin College  Johns Hopkins U.  Sweet Briar College  
Brown U.  Kenyon College  Trinity College (Conn.)  
Bryn Mawr College  Mary Baldwin College  Tufts U.  
Chatham College  Massachusetts Institute  Vassar College  
U. of Chicago  of Technology  Wellesley College  
Colby College  Middlebury College  Wells College  
Columbia U.  Mount Holyoke College  Wesleyan U.  
Connecticut College  Northwestern U.  Wheaton College (Mass.)  
Converse College  Oberlin College  Williams College  
Cornell U.  Ohio Wesleyan U.  YaleU.  
Dartmouth College  U. of Pennsylvania  

DECEMBER 1989 • News Features U. THE NATIONAL COLLEGE NEWSPAPER 3 
Texas A&M student serves in Israeli army 
By Holly Beeson 
• The Battalion Texas A&M U. 
When Texas A&M U. senior Beth Morrison visited Israel, she bypassed the traditional tourist traps -she joined the anny. 
"I was actually part of the anny," the psychology major said. "I wore the uni­fonn and lived in the barracks. I ate with the Israeli soldiers and woke up when they did. It helped me understand their way oflife." 
Morrison heard about the Volunteers for Israel program through the Hillel Jewish Students Center. The program allows people to become soldiers for three weeks. 
"What you're doing is little things to help out," Morrison said. "I requested to work in an infinnary, butendedup doing computer work at a base in Haifa." 
Some of her friends' duties included painting, peeling potatoes, weeding and handing out unifonns to soldiers. 
Morrison said it's not difficult to get around and communicate in Israel because everything is written in English as well as Hebrew, and everyone speaks at least a little English. But the people are different than those in the United States, she said. 
"Israelis have been compared to the fruit sabra-prickly on the outside, but soft and sweet on the inside. 
"They grow up faster than we do. We go to college and go to frat parties. They go to the anny before college." 
All Israelis, male and female, register for the anny when they turn 18 and are required to serve for three years. 
Morrison originally decided to go to Israel because of its history. "You go to Israel and experience 3,000 years of his­tory. You're walking on history -it's incredible," she said. "Jerusalem is important to Moslems, Christians and Jews. We all have history there." 
This non-profit program provides an inexpensive way to enjoy all this history, Morrison said. Round-trip airfare, room and board, tours and a free stop-over in Europe are included in the $500 fare. The program coordinator, Archie Broodo, can be reached at (214) 350­8781. 

Behind Texas A&M U. student Beth Morrison, the Western Wall is one of the holiest places in Jerusalem for Jews to pray. 
Poorly designed campuses hinder handicapped students 
By Brad Buckhalter 
• 
The PowWow Northeast Louisiana U. and Marc Goldstein 

• 
The Campus Times 

U. 
of Rochester 


Gavin Miller changed his major freshman year because of the location of his classes. 
Confined to a wheelchair after an auto accident at 17, the Northeast Lousiana U. student found his com­puter science courses were almost inaccessible to him. "Hanna Hall has this big, greasy freight elevator that I was supposed to use to get to the sec­ond floor," he says. "The elevator has a door anda gatethathave to be closed just right to work. Sometimes some­one wouldn't get the doors closed good 
Junior Gavin Miller encounters obstacles
and I couldn't get to my classes." 
everyday at Northeast Lousiana U.
After many frustrating episodes, including losing several books after 
Carroll says isolates her from the rest they dropped through the crack 
ofthe campus. between the elevator and the main 
Once on campus, Carroll has trou­floor, Miller switched his major to 
ble with inaccessible buildings. Some accounting. Most of those classes 
have elevators, but the buttons are meet in the Administration Building, 
often too high and recessed. Buttons which has an elevator expressly for 
that do not protrude from the control the handicapped. 
panel are difficult for physically chal­"I don't see how it's feasible for a 
lenged people to operate, Carroll says. handicapped person to have classes in 
Carroll discusses these issues at the Hanna," the junior says. "It's really 
beginning ofeach semester with Jean bad that you have to plan the rest of 
Cameron, assistant director of your life around campus freight ele­
University Facilities Planning. The vators." 
access problems at UR are due to the Teresa Carroll, a junior at U. of 
age of the university's buildings, Rochester, also has been in a 
Cameron says. She estimates their wheelchair since a car accident four 
average age to be 43 years and says years ago. Carroll found UR much 
early construction planners did not harder to get around than the com­
forsee the problems. munity college she transferred from, 
But at NLU, Miller says even the where all the buildings were intercon­
newest buildings are sometimes inac­nected. 
cessible. His suitemate, David Berry, Since UR does not have wheelchair­
says, "Gavin even has trouble getting lift equipped buses, Carroll relies on 
into Ewing Coliseum, and that's bad, the services ofMedicab, a private van 
since something that modem should company. However, she says Medicab 
have wheelchair ramps." is frequently late, and sometimes the 
"The only way I can get in is to go driver forgets to pick her up. 
down to the freight entrance, where She saysthe service also allows only 
they park trucks and everything," one pick-up and drop-off a day, 
Miller says. restricting its patrons' travel. She 
"Sometimes I even have trouble get­mustarrange herown transportation 
tingin thatway, since the people don't to concerts and other events, which 
See HANDICAPPED, Page 5 

SA passes drug-search policy despite constitutional concerns 
doesn't vote for this resolution doesn't 
By Beth Ziesenis 
mean in any way, shape or fonn that he
• The North Texas Daily 
supports drug use. The Constitution 
cannot be annulled for certain situa­
A resolution allowing residence hall 
U. of North Texas 
tions. Ifthat's the case, what's the point staffmembers to search donn rooms for 
ofhaving the Constitution of the United illegal drugs narrowly passed, 15-13, the 
States?" 
U. of North Texas Student Association 
Junior Winn Walton cited several after a two-hour debate. 
court cases where similar search policies Junior Wade Duchene was one of the 
were found to be unconstitutional. "A SA representatives opposed to the reso­
student does not abandon his right to lution. "This is not a drug issue; this is a 
due process upon his registration at the moral issue," he said. "Does the end jus­
university of his choice," Walton said. tify the means? Are you willing to ignore 
"That means if you come here and you some constitutional rights to get drugs 
sign a waiver or any type of policy that out? At the University of North Texas, 
waives your rights, thatwaiverisinvalid the housing department may be ridding 
because it does not step above the whole the campus of drugs, but at what price? 
U.S. Constitution." How far are we willing to go?" 
SA President Paul Stevens asked the 
Resident Assistant Council Member 
assembly to dismiss the question ofcon­Joel Daboub saw the other side." As RAs 
stitutionality and decide on just the we are faced every day with people who 
issue of being for or against the donn are taking and using illegal substances," 
search policy. But Texas Civil Liberties he said. "This policy is an effective tool. 
President Don Smith, a faculty member, Itgives us as~ the ability to maintain 
said SA should consider the policy's con­the security and safety ofour residents." 
stitutionality. "It's very straightforward: Kyev Tatem, co-author of the bill and 
Either you violate the Constitution or an assistant hall director, said the policy 
you don't," he said. would help students caught during the 
Senior Jaclyn Dodgin proposed post­early stages ofdrug experimentation. 
poning the vote until SA polled students "What we're saying is, 'Hey, adminis­
about the policy. "I think that people tration, we see you are trying to take 
were not educated enough, were con­issue with the drug problem,' and we as 
fused and voted how they personally students support this issue," he said. 
thought they should vote," she said. "We Mark Jetton, a sophomore who voted 
still don't know how the students them­against the policy, said, "Anybody who 
selves feel." 


Wake Forest University 
... a different school of thought 
With special emphasis on: 
• International Business
WAKE FOREST 
• Microcomputers
UNJV[RSIT'I' 
• 
Small class environment 

• 
Broad-based management 

• 
Experiential learning 

• 
Close student-faculty relations 


MBA 
• Integrated curriculum 
For more information call toll-free: (800) 722-1622 or write: James Garner Ptaszynski, Admissions Director, Wake Forest MBA, 7659 Reynolds Station, Winston-Salem, NC 27109 (919) 761-5422 

Send us your most clever idea f(u· our T-Shirt Slogan Contest, and your message could appear on a Sierra (:tub 'FShirt! 
That's our Cra!HI Prize, plus a hrifi-<Juality Sierra ( :lub Book. Second and Third Prite winners rereiw a fitll-color Sinra (:tub Book. ~\ 
Send vom entry 1yped on a 3x!i"card k '\ . ' . with your name, address, phone nnmher 
~. t~.~­
"':.-'
and entry category: Outdoor Advmture ..... 
CALIFORNIA 
Terrorists at Stanford ... A Stanford U. organization, Stanford Central America Action Network, clad in the black and camouflage of a Salvadoran death squad, recently staged two mock kidnappings in campus residence halls 

SMITH 
CORONA Crossword 
Challenge 
ACROSS 
I. Pn•sidcnt typewriters: 2 wds. lwrorc Wilson 38. Neck of the 
5. Pncinu und woodH (:npone 39. Historical peri­
H. [,;dt•n dweller od 
12. 
Margurinl' 40. Oriental Hnuce 

13. 
Squenh.r 41. Smidgen 

14. 
Castro's coun­44. Hockt•r Ocnsek try 46. One_ tim 

15. 
"Flowers in the (singly 1: 2 wds. llirtn is his new 4H. Bnurd-gnme ulhum: 2 wd.t~. cube l. Summit !H. Not working 51. Narrow cut 2. ,!31 


:l4. Like term puperH typed on Hmith Corona 
to "bring to awareness the severity of the human rights violations." Apparently, the kidnappings were real­istic because many students attempted to rescue their classmates and local police were notified. To avoid repeating the confusion in their second perfo­mance, SCAAN members warned 
DOWN 
24. 
Clumsy one state: Abbr. 

25. 
The Crimson Tide: 43. Monopolizes, as 



police, read from scripts and carried signs describing death squad activities. SCAAN later held a two-hour discus­sion with dorm residents. • David Brinkerhoff, Chicago Maroon, U. of Chicago 
INDIANA 
AIDS test mix-up discovered ... An Indiana woman who tested positive for the AIDS virus has filed a complaint against the hospital after testing negative more than a year later. Gayla Gray tested positive twice for Human Immunodeficiency Virus, a primary cause of AIDS, at Indiana University Hospital. In September, during routine blood work at IU, she tested negative. Her original blood samples, which were stored at the IU hospital, were re-tested and found to be negative. Gray will be eligible for up to $500,000 if the Indiana State Insurance Commission rules in her favor. The three doctors who tested the blood originally may be liable for up to $100,000 each. Mter the original diagno­sis, Gray planned her funeral and offered her boyfriend a chance to end their rela­tionship, she said. Hospital Spokeswoman Mary Maxwell said, "We're happy that it was a false positive test and that she can now live without a fear of AIDS in her life." The hospital's attorney said the doctors acted as responsibly as possible and conformed to the general standards of the time. • Jennifer Martin, The Indiana Daily Student, Indiana U. 
Free car for struggling grad student ... A staff member from Purdue U. gave her car away after placing a classified ad in the Purdue Exponent offering the car to a grad student. Laura Monahan, commu­nication coordinator for the mechanical engineering department, said there were 35 to 40 callers. Panayiotis Papachiou, computer science student and new owner of the 1975 Datsun wagon, called first. "I couldn't believe it," 
News Features • DECEMBER 1989 
Papachiou said. "It's really very nice." Papachiou said he plans to help someone in a similar plight after his career brings him success. Monahan, mindful of the condition of the aged but useful vehicle, said, "I hope you don't try to do that with this car." • Andy Chanley, The Purdue Exponent, Purdue U. 
MICHIGAN 
Pro-life picketers inadvertently raise money for clinic's services ... Pro-choice activists are pledging money to the Kalamazoo Planned Parenthood for each right-to­life protester who pickets at the clinic, said a Planned Parenthood official. Executive Director of the Kalamazoo clinic Louise Safron said that the money is used to provide services, including abortions, to low-income women. The campaign raised about $6,000 between May and October. The clinic was bombed Sept. 6 causing slight exterior damages; no injuries were reported. Director of the clinic's administration Suzanna Howey said there was a previ­ous explosion at the clinic in 1986 that destroyed the building. • Carrie Rulli, Western Herald, Western Michigan U. 
NEW YORK 
No men allowed ... Syracuse U. females are eligible to take classes at Women's School, a private, non-profit organiza­tion, which offers non-traditional cours­es including massage, meditation, money management and sign language . Women's School Committee Member Barbara Kobritz said that learning in an all-female classroom is a safer atmo­sphere. "Women feel more comfortable opening up and sharing their experi­ences. Women won't take a lead, they'll allow men to dominate a group and they'll come away with less," she said. Assistant Director for Syracuse U.'s Women's Studies program said that the school serves a need that can't be met at the university. "Not everyone can afford to take a class at SU and not everyone is looking for a degree. They offer classes we can't." • Gina Ciavola, The Daily Orange, Syracuse U. 
TEXAS 
Files open after death ... Spurred by requests for the files of a Texas A&M stu­dent and a local high school student after their deaths, Texas Attorney General Jim Mattox ruled that education records become public information after death. Prior to the ruling, Texas A&M had refused to release the student's files and the Carrollton-Farmers Branch Independent School District said it could not find the files. Matt Hall, a member of the Progressive Students Union at U. of Texas, Arlington, disagreed with the rul­ing, "I don't see why a person's right to 
privacy shouldn't extend beyond the grave. On the surface, this decision makes no sense at all." Political Science Associate Professor Allan Saxe agreed with the decision, saying it was consis­tent with other laws such as libel and slander. "I think it is sometimes very important to historians to find out things about people thatwere never made public in that person's lifetime," Saxe said. UTA students' attorney David Thcker said the decision echos others that say the right to privacy ends atthe grave. • JeffMosier, The Shorthorn, U. of Texas, Arlington 
l!J. Yah• studt•nt 
20. 
Hupcrmun's insignia 

21. 
Urnds·to·be: Ahhr. 


2:1. Sl'lf-imuge 
25. Cry of discov· ery 
28. Collegr aver­
ngc: Abbr. 
:m. Pub servings 
54. "Bntrnun" Rtar: 2 wds. 
58. 
A Great Luke 

59. 
Tuke advan­tug(• of 

60. 
WiHe person 

61. 
National League team 

62. 
Not<!-tuking nt•f!d 

63. 
Snail-like 


3. Long-running arguments 
4. Highway payment.~ 
5. 
Curved line 

6. 
Fine fabric 

7. 
No longer fresh 

8. 
Behave 

9. 
Sand hill 

10. 
Lincoln and Vigoda 

11. 
llliHl•bull great Willie 


16. Join forces, as Abbr. 
26. 
That sorority sister 

27. 
Satisfied the munchies 


29. Gorilla 
31. 
Hugo's" _ Miserables" 

32. 
Social-science sub­ject: Abbr. 

33. 
Hog's home 


35. Typewriter setting the telephone: 2 wds. 
45. 
Seminar, for instance 

46. 
From the U.S.: Abbr. 

47. 
Become weary 

48. 
Chemical solvent 


50. Otherwise 
52. 
From Rome: Abbr. 

53. 
Outgoing order: 2 wds. 


companies  36. Make a mistake  55. "_So Fine"  
17. Fix the outcome  37. Improve, as grades  56. Barbie's Boyfriend  
22. A semester: Abbr.  42. Northwestern  57. Just out  

Look for November Crossword answers in the December issue of U. 
Brought to you by: 
SMITH CORONA 

BeTheAuthorOf 





OurNextBestseller 
or Environmental Protection. One entry per categorv, please. Mail to: Sierra Club T-Shirt Slogan Contest, Ann: Wendy Smith, 730 Polk Stret'l, San Franrisco, (J\ 94109, postmarked by February 10,1990. Y<n1 don't need to he a member to enter. 
SIERRACLUB ~ 
~ 
\ 
~;
~~ 

--.-:·::-[)'.-~­

1...,._
.. 
• < 
(YOUR WINNING SLOGAN) 
Entnes must be postmarked by Feb.t0.1990 Write category on outside of envelope: separate envelope for each entry. Entnes fUdged on creativity by S1erra Club staf1. Three winners in each calegory will be notified by mail and announced in the April1990 issue of U. Magaz1ne. Employees of Sierra Club and !heir families are no! eligible. All entries become property of Sierra Club upon submission. Sierra Club shall have all rights lo submitted slogans. 
lf.  .)D 533Indi,·idual Regular  
·~E ·'lt ,./I, 'l.'\  ·  .'......:. ·' i  D 54) Joint Regular(Dues include suhsniption to Sinm (S750l  
-:'' {  1  and Chapter publications (Sl ). Dues arc not  
·· ).~  :  l<lX·decluctihle.  

\ .· : D S23Joint Student
' 
·~ 
.,, l 
1 
J • u Now's a great time 
Qffi S. tojoin Sierra ( :lub­
America' s action-oriented envi­ronmental organization! Student membership is only SJ5 a year. Mail vour check along with this member­ship coupon. Do not mail member­ship with contest entry. 
D YES. sign me up fi>r one year! I \1y check is enclosed. (Choose one.) 
I 
I I 
: D SJ51ndividual Student 
Name 
Address 
City 
State Zip 
Enclose check and mail to: Sierra Club, Dept. H001, 
P.O. Box 7959, San Francisco, CA 94120. 
DECEMBER 1989 • News Features U. THE NATIONAL COLLEGE NEWSPAPER 5 
ACCESS VICTORIES 
Student wins $556,000 in access suit ... 
A disabled U. of California, Berkeley, student has been award­ed more than halfa million dollars in punitive and emotional dam­ages from a restaurant that failed to provide wheelchair access. Julie Weissman sued H's Lordships Restaurant after she had to be car­ried down the entrance stairs and into the dining room. Connie Weissman told the jury that the incident made her daughter "embarrassed, upset and fearful." But the key testimony may have come from builder Ron Taylor, who said the restaurant refused two bids for the construction of ramps in 1987. The establishment had only back-door access ramps when Weissman visited. • Darlene Ciraulo, The Daily Californian, U. of California, Berkeley 
User friendly ... Disabled students at the U. of Minnesota, Minneapolis, have gained access to a resource formerly closed to them with the introduction of specially adapted computers. The equipment, pur­chased with a grant from IBM, serves both the visually and phys­ically impaired. Voice synthesiz­ers, scanners and a terminal that translates the screen's contents into Braille help the blind, while special keyboards are designed for students who can use only one fin­ger or hand. Special software reduces the number of necessary keystrokes by predicting words from one or two characters. • Allison Campbell, The Minnesota Daily, U. of Minnesota, Minneapolis 
Handicapped 
Continued from page 3 
know what's going on. So I usually call the Union Board and have someone meet me there. They're really good about helping me get into places like that." 
Although the Union Board does help, Miller says that isjust a temporary solu­tion. 
"There has got to be something done," he says. "They're treating the symp­toms, but not the disease." 
Berry agrees. "Gavin can't even see the movie the Union Board has on Wednesday nights. The screen is set up where you have to be in the seats to see it. Gavin won't let me carry him up the stairs to sit." 
Miller does let Berry and his girl­friend, Shani Smith, help him at other times when he is unable to access a building. "Ifl ever need anything, I have to get Shani to get it or I am at a loss." 
Although he says most of the campus roads are fairly accessible, a four-inch curb can pose an obstacle to someone in a wheelchair. 
He leans forward, backs toward the curb and lowers his wheelchair to the pavement. He admits he sometimes takes a spill. 
At UR, several projects are under way 
to solve p-;oblems like this one. But 
Facilities Plannt.,. Larry Littlefield says 
renovation is "a corhnuing effort. It is 
not something that c~ll magically be 
remedied overnight." 


Policies 
Continued from page 2 
harassment policies recently. 
The policies at Emory and Brown pro­hibit demeaning or abusive actions toward any person or group on the basis of personal characteristics, including race, gender, religion or handicap. 
According to Dean of Students David Inman, the issue was in committee at Brown when homophobic and racist graffiti were discovered in a donn. This incident prompted the university's new president to bypass the committee and immediately establish a policy in consul­tation with university lawyers. 
Emory, Brown and Stanford are pri­vate universities, and Inman said since the schools are private associations of people, the First Amendment does not necessarily apply. 
Issues at public schools 
As public systems, the California and Wisconsin state universites are required to abide by the Constitution. 
According to Patricia Hodulik, an attorney for the Wisconsin system, an amendment to the existing student con­duct code was implemented Sept. 1. The policy was preceded by a series of racist events on campus, she said. 
Under the new code, racist and dis­criminatory comments or behaviors are prohibited, Hodulik said. The injured party must prove "intent to create an intimidating or hostile environment and intent to demean," she said. 
The student body has been "relatively supportive," but Hodulik said the Wisconsin ACLU has threatened to sue. 
The new policy in the UC system also runs the risk of being challenged in court. However, according to Rick Malaspina, a spokesperson for the sys­tem, UC attorneys "are confident they're on finn legal ground." On Sept. 21, UC President David Gardner sent a letter to the chancellors of all nine UC schools amending the system's existing Student Conduct Policy. 
In his letter, Gardner said the UC sys­tem strives for campuses that "foster the values of mutual respect and tolerance and are free from discrimination." 
While the policy is not intended to limit free speech, it recognizes that"words can be used in such a way that they no longer express an idea, but rather are used to injure and intimidate, thus undermin­ing the ability for individuals to partici­pate" in university life, Gardner wrote. 

PWP 2000. With its built-in disk drive and 1007000 character DataDisk capaci~ it can make short work of the longest projects. 
The PWP 2000 even boasts a list of features that 
What you don7t need7 in this case7 is an expensive7 would make a computer's display tum green with bulky computer which might take you the whole term envy-a Spell-Right® 507000 word Electronic just to figure out. Dictionary7 AutoSpell; WordEraser; Address Merge; 
What you do need is something thafs far better our optional CoronaCalc~ Spread Sheet program7 suited to all the papers and reports7 not to mention the 
plus lots more. SMITI-1 small dorm rooms and even smaller budgets that every 

Allofwhichwi~ []Jill CORONft.~
student faces-the compact7 portable Smith Corona make buymg your first 1"' PWP 2000 Personal Word Processor. computer the last thing PERSONAL WORD PROCESSORS 
THE INTELLIGENT ALTERNATIVE TO THE PC"
If you can use a typewriter7 you can use the you nee d to thinkabout. 
For more information on this product, write to Smith Corona Corporation1 65 Locust Avenue, New Canaan, CT 06840 or Smith Corona Canada, 440 Tapscott Road, Scarborough, Ontario, Canada MIB IY4. 
6 U. THE NATIONAL COLLEGE NEWSPAPER Comment and Opinion • DECEMBER1989 

u 
THE NATIONAL COLLEGE NEWSPAPER 
By presenting a wide range of opinions and ideas reprinted from hundreds ofcampus newspapers, we hope to enhance the quality of campus life as we inform, entertain and engage the national student body. We acknowledge the commitment of student journalists across the nation, supported by their media advisers and journalism professors, to report the activities, issues and concerns of their fellow students. 
PIU:SIDENT AND PUBLISHER Sheena PaterHon-Berwick 
EDITORIAL DIRECTOR George F. Taylor Special Projects, Mark Charnack 
EDITORS ON ~'ELLOWSHIP 
Charles A. Hahn, Northeastrrn News, Northeastern U. Jacki Hampton, The BrePze, James Madison U. Kathleen Kohernik, Western llcrald, Western Michigan U. Hector P. Vargas Jr., The fled and Black, U. of Georgia 
CAMPUS ru;LATIONS [)JRECTOR Dick Sublette 
EDITORIAL ADVISORY COUNCIL 
TOM ROLNICKI, Executive Director, Assaciated Collegiate Press 
llllllAVIIJ KN<YIT. lmmt.dinu• Paat l'msidenl, College Mtodin Advi11ers, The Ball State Daily News, Ball State U., IN 
~:RIC ,JACOBS, Immediate Past President, College Newspaper Business & Advertising Managers, The Daily Pennsylvanian. U. of Pennsylvania 
~:DMUND SULLIVAN, Director, Columbia Scholastic PrmiH Association, Columbia U., NY 
l>II.. ,J. DAVID ru:ED, Immediate Past President, Society for r.ollege Journalists, The Daily Ea.!flern News, b:nHlcrn lllinois U. 
~'RED WEDDLE, Immediate Post President, Western AsHociation of University Publications Managers, Oklahoma Daily, U. of Oklahoma 
MONA CRAVENS,Ilirector of Student Publications, llaily Trojan, U. of Southern California 
Ill{. ~'RANK RAGUI~'iKY, Mnnnger of Student Media, !Jail.Y Bamnwler, Ort•gon Slute U. 
,JAN 1'. CHILDIU:ss, Director of Student Publications, UnillerHity Daily, Thxns Tech U. 
W.B. CASEY, Publisher, The/Jaily Iowan, U. of Iowa 
~;[) BARm:R, General Manager, Independent Florida Alli!fator, U. of Florida 
IIAKitY MONTEVIIl~;o, General Manager, The Red & Black, U. of Georgia 
IIIWC~: ll. ITULJ>;, Manager of Studtmt Publications, State PreH.<, Arizona State U. 
IUCIIAIUl C. LYTLE, G"nerul Mnnnger, Thxas Student Puhlicntiuns, The Daily Thxan, U. of Texas, Austin 
MARKETING DIIU:CTOR Gregory L. Dickson 
RES~:ARCH lllR.:CTOR Steve Nuchtmnn 
OPERATIONS l1!RECTOR Annulec Hyun Opt>rationH AHHiHtant: .John Ziegler Circulation Manager: WHndelyn Rea 
Regional ReprrHt~ntatives Ro!!s Fischman, Dun ··ox, Kathy Wagner 
Assistant to the Publisher: Elizaheth Franzeim 
SALES DIR~X:TOR JacqUl•line Wisner 
SAU:S IW~'ICES Los Angeles (213) 450·2921 Account l'~xecutive: Kim BriggH New York !2121 H40·60HO Account J<;xecutive: Karen C. Tarrant Assistant: Nancy McDonald Boston (617) H90·4959 Publishers' Edge of New England Chicago (3121 782·4492 The McCann Group llallas (2140 960-2HR:l Tierney and Company Detroit (313) 373·1026 Wynkoop, Hunnah, Albaum Atlanta (404) 491-1419 Quenzer/Stites Florida (4071 241-3103 Quenzer/Stites 
Advertising Coordinator: Troy Renneherg 
Classified/Special Sections Manager Jennifer FJynn Account Executives: Jason Maier, Eric BaHs 
THE AMERICAN COLI..EGIATE NETWORK Albcrt"T. Ehringer, Chairman 
U. is published eight times a year by 
The American CoUegiate Network, =""' 3110 Main Street, Santa Monica, CA 
wBDI\ 
001011. TeL:<2t3)46().2921. Copyright rn 
1989. All righta reaerved. 
1:00 AM-CAFFfiNf FIX 

MICHAEL KEANE, THE NORTH TEXAS DAILY, U. OF NORTH TEXAS 
Students should learn life's whys, not hows 
By Lynn Vavreck 
• State Press Arizona State U. 
There will always be those who know how, working for those who know why. 
-Anonymous 
It's time to return to a college educa­tion that is a based in the classics. Students should be studying things like literature, history, government, art and philosophy -not "Reporting," "Home Equipment" or "Social Psychology of Play." 
A study by Jones and Wills in Esquire magazine suggests 100 things every col­lege graduate should know. Certainly, the following highlights from their list are arbitrary-but, then, so are our diplomas if we don't know these subjects. 
Words. There are some simple seman­tic details that col­lege should help 
Never insult a woman by say­
clear up. There's job -because you
ing she's sensuous. 
Byron, Shelley, and, of course, Shakespeare. 
Ifyou haven't read some ofthese works already, you'd better get cracking. Statistics show that, after commence­ment, the average college graduate reads one book a year. Your biological­book clock is ticking. 
Art. Certain works of art should be rec­ognized immediately, both for their con­tribution to history as well as to art: Giotto's "The Lamentation," Donatello's "David," Michelangelo's "Pity" and Raphael's "School of Athens." Remember: Art imitates life. 
But I can just hear everybody saying, "Sure, reading Shakespeare is OK, but it won't get me a job." 
You're not going to find a want ad for someone who knows how to quote Shakespeare verbatim. 
But with a good, classic, liberal arts 
background, you 
can get any kind of 
the difference between discreet and discrete. Discreet is what a person should be if he is having an illicit love affair. Discrete applies in science and technology and means separate or detached, like molecules. Confusing these terms could be terminal to your love life. 
Here's another: sensuous and sensual. While both adjectives refer to the pleas­ing of the senses, sensuous is the kind of pleasure one gets from art or literature. Sensual is the kind of erotic pleasure one gets from one's discreet love affair. Never insult a woman by saying she is sensu­ous. 
Books. Remember reading Chaucer's "Canterbury Tales," Swift's "Gulliver's Travels" or even Freud's "Introduction to Psychoanalysis"? All classics with lessons to teach. 
Poetry. Poetry is a bit more difficult, since it is written in a style unfamiliar to most. Regardless, every graduate should read Milton's "A Paradise Lost," Pope's "An Essay on Man" and other works by the great poets including understand not only 
how to do things but 
why to do them. 
People say that a business major can go right out and get a job in sales or bank­ing or finance. But so can a history major. The only difference is the history major has a sense of weltanschauung-that's a world view, for those of you in the busi­ness college. 
The history major knows why things go the way they do because he has taken time to review the patterns oflife -not justreview the flow charts of the Fortune 500 companies. 
The classics never change and that is one reason why they are so crucial to study. History gives us hope, and through studying the art, literature, phi­losophy and events of a different time, we are better able to make a difference in our own time. 
We should be challenging ourselves to learn all we can while in college-about everything we can. We can develop job skills along the way. 
After all, it is always those who know how, working for those who know why. 
Confessions of the most hated 
! 




man on campus 
By Dale Chapman 
• 
New University 

U. 
of California, Irvine 


I'm the guy you'd most like to strangle, 
maim, disfigure and then run over. 
Forget about the professors, administra­
tors and university staff you think you 
hate. I'm the one you really hate and you 
know it. 
After working as a parking "rep" at the 
U. of California, Irvine, last year, I know what you think about the dreaded force known here simply as PARKING. Even my friends call me every name in the book, and then ask for forgiveness-and if I can take care of their multitudes of tickets. 
No, way Jose. I work for parking now. My first day, I went with a veteran who gave me the following advice: 
• 
"Watch the cars that pass by and be sure not stand too close. Last month, Nancy was spit on. 

• 
''You've got to move fast. When these violators see you putting a ticket on their windshields, they're not happy campers. So hit and run. Sting like a bee, float like a butterfly. 

• 
"Above all, keep cool. When they start screaming obscenities at you, just go about your business. Ifthey come at you like they're going to hit you, just key the mike on your radio and hopefully some­one can help you before you lose con­sciousness." 


For the last year, these words have proven wise. Although I haven't been spit on, I have had a few worthy experi­ences. The first occurred when four extremely large muscle-men walked toward some cars I just cited. The biggest one yelled, "Hey you parking %#$&*,void this ticket." 
After I replied "Sorry, no can do," he ran over and hit my ticket book and sent it flying across the parking lot. I ended up hiding in the nearest building watch­ing him burn rubber around the lot three times before he screeched a way in a haze of smoke. 
Another time I spotted a car on the ath­letic track. I heard some guy yell, "Hey dirt bag, get a real job and leave us alone." Knowing he could throw a discus through my window, I decided to give him a warning. 
The most interesting incident occurred recently. I noticed a vehicle with a car cover over it and I thought I had a violator for sure. I lifted the cover just enough to see if a permit was dan­gling from the rearview mirror and heard a Doors song emanating from the car. 
Thinking this was the strangest auto alarm I'd ever encountered, I pulled the cover off all the way -whereby I saw numerous empty beer cans, smoke clouds billowing out of the windows, and a stark naked couple entangled in what had to be an added position Mf' one of those sex manuals. 
Immediately, the JUY reached for his permit and said ~Here's my permit sir, please don't tir.L{et me." 

~ ­
DECEMBER 1989 • Comment and Opinion U. THE NATIONAL COLLEGE NEWSPAPER 7 
Federal confidentiality policy guards perpetrators 
Female silence in classroom deafening blow to education 
have felt increasingly compelled to
By Shawn Marie Boyne 
express myself like a lawyer -that is,
• The Daily Trojan 
in a sterile, masculine, analytical voice. 
Hungry to mold myself into a profession­
After four years in undergraduate 
U. of Southern California 
al, I find myself increasingly alienated classes listening to discussions partici­
from my personal views. pated in equally by men and women, I 
I find the image ofbeing a lawyer entic­have been dismayed in my first year of 
ing. Thus, when professors treat issues law school to discover that a minority of 
such as rape or battered women like women choose to participate in class. 
abstract legal concepts, I feel pressured My own participation has dropped 
to amputate my emotions about these precipitously. This experience is not 
subjects. While I may be conforming to unique to the U. of Southern California 
an image of a successful lawyer, I con­Law School, but is duplicated at other 
form at a cost to my feminine soul. prestigious law schools throughout the 
My concerns about the disempower­country. 
ment and sterilization of women extend By choosing not to speak-because of 
beyond the law school classroom. By fear of being criticized or ridiculed-we 
choosing not speak out on political participate in our own disempower­
issues, we abdicate our ability to influ­ment. As a result, classrooms often dis­
ence decisions that will have far-reach­solve into a monopoly of a minority of 
ing consequences for women. white men. 
For example, the visible anti-abortion Some of my closest and most support­
protests by Operation Rescue in Los ive friends fall into this category, but 
Angeles were primarily orchestrated by their views do not reflect the reality of 
men. Regardless of what one's personal women's lives. Through our silence, we 
views on abortion are, if we choose not alienate ourselves from our own legal 
to express them, the issue will be decided education and deny ourselves a forum to 
by that sector of the population that is educate men about our experiences. 
biologically incapable of becoming preg­However, the goal of increased partic­
nant. ipation from women in the classroom is 
I urge women to evaluate how they not meant to introduce a homogenous 
participate in their education. I hope, feminist voice. Women, like men, are a 
despite the fear the first year of law heterogenous group. 
school creates, more women will refuse Just as the voices of men in the class­
to participate in their own disempower­room cannot reflect the real-life experi­
ment and will choose to express their ences of women, the voices of a few 
opinions in the classroom. women cannot accurately represent the 
Our opinions are important, and iflaw diverse experience of American women 
is to serve the interests of men and today. 
women in society, more women must Faced with the stress of my first year 
choose to use their voices to break the oflaw school and pressure to conform, I 
silence. 
Responses to 
STUDENT OPINION POLL
October U. Poll In October, we asked read­ers what should happen to 
1-800-662-5511
students caught cheating? 
u
Most callers said cheaters should fail the assignment 
Should residence hall staff have the authority 
(52%) or fail the course (21%). Some callers said 
to search a student's dorm room if there is a 
cheaters should be expelled 
reasonable suspicion that the resident pos­
(11%) or suspended (7%). Almost one of every 10 
sesses illegal drugs? Tell us what you think. 
callers (9%) said cheaters should not be punished. 
(See related story on page 3) 
BEII/NL) 771£SC£N£5 ... 
----· (# • AT THE UNIVERSITY OF WASHING-TON STAR REGISTRATION SY.sr&:M 
LESLIE PATRICELLI, THE DAILY OF THE UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON. U. OF WASHINGTON 
What, me worry about grades? 
Have all my idealistic values of life 
By Christine Pocan 
been crushed? Yes. Cal Poly State U., San Luis Obispo 
• Mustang Daily 
Will I take this vast amount of knowl­edge and talent and apply it to my own There I sat at my little wooden desk 
personal gain? Probably. waiting for class to begin. I was nervous, 
But I am no longer a personality here my palms were sweating and my finger­
at Cal Poly, I am my grade (and social nails almost gone. 
security number, of course). Today was the day we got back our first 
So many times there has been a cause quiz. 
I have wanted to join, but I had to get The professor walked in and I could 
my homework done first." Just 600 more hear my pulse in my ears. 
pages of reading and then I'll commit," I had been coaching myself all morn­
I'd reason to myself. ing on the virtues of learning and the 
I have a class in which attendance is importance of knowledge. It was the 
taken. The other day the guy next to me experience of taking the test that mat­
was reading Sports Illustrated, and I tered, not the results. 
was so jealous. How could he sit there I repeated "College is what you make 
reading that without feeling guilty? of it" 10 times. 
Didn't he want to get an A? I wanted It was of no use. He pulled the quizzes 
to take him outside and explain to him out of his manila envelope and all of my 
how college works. I wanted to tell him philosophy went out the window. All 
that the most important class meeting that really mattered was the grade. 
was the one in which the professor My knees were so weak I couldn't even 
explains his or her grading scale and if walk. When my name was called, I 
a curve will be used. answered a faint "here" and reached out 
Didn't he understand that ifhe didn't to grab my verdict. 
get an A, he would be a complete flop at I got a B. Not an A, but a B. 
on-campus interviews, no graduate I fought back tears. Failure. What 
schools would accept him and worst of kind of internship would I get now? I 
all, he couldn't expect to make more than might as well have dropped out of col­
$15,000 a year? lege. I thought of running to the nearest 
The nerve of some people thinking campus phone and dropping my entire 
they can do what they enjoy. schedule. 
At least I have my priorities straight. 
By Malissa Lambert 
• 
The Daily Mississippian 

U. 
of Mississippi 


Once again, theU.ofMississippiishid­ing behind a cloak of secrecy. 
The university's refusal to release the names of students against whom disci­plinary action was taken recently for a fraternity incident is just the latest in a long history of refusals to release names of students disciplined for univerisity violations. 
The names of the victims are public record. The names of the perpetrators are not. This allows everyone to know the names ofthe victims, but the univer­sity protects the perpetrators. 
Ole Miss officials are citing a federal law to keep the names secret. The Buckley Amendment says "no funds shall be made available under any appli­cable program to any educational agen­cy or institution which has a policy or practice of permitting the release of edu­cational records ... of students without ... written consent ..." 
First, one must question whether the university has a policy or practice of releasing students' records. Old Miss certainly does not. Thus the university's reasoning for nondisclosure is weak­ened. 
Second, Old Miss must not be aware that not one university has been denied federal funds under this law for the 15 years the law has existed. The Department ofEducation only looks into instances of "unauthorized disclosure" when a complaint is made. And when it has investigated complaints, there have been no penalties because a "policy or practice" did not exist. So, it is the uni­versity who is protecting the students •• not the law. 
A couple of years ago it was the University Police Department's policy that even students' criminal records were part of their "school records." A reporter would be told that a student was arrested on campus, but no name would be released. That policy has changed because the university now releases the names of students arrested on campus. 
If a student is arrested by the city police, the names are part of the public record under state law. So, if criminal charges were filed against the students involved in the incident, we would know who they were. 
Sometimes the "violations" are not criminal, but are violations of university rules and regulations. The violations equate to violations of university "laws." But accordingto the university, students who violate these "laws" are accorded secrecy. 
Institutions of higher education and legislators need to reassess what univer­sity records should be confidential. There should be no "right of privacy·· restricting access to a person's name i1 he or she has been judged guilty of vio­lating a university regulation and expelled from the university. 
And in a situation like this one, a true benefit could come from publication oi the names and punishments of those judged guilty -· future deterrence. 
8 U. THE NATIONAL COLLEGE NEWSPAPER Life and Art • DECEMBER 1989 

LIFESTYLE 
DECOR 
Classic art
Tattoo you 
Original Picasso, Goya 
Students discuss their 
and other prints hang at U.
experiences under the 
of California, Berkeley. 
needle. 
Page9 Page9 
COLUMN 
'lbp10li£s 
toldby men 
By Debra Goldstein 
• The Daily Orange Syracuse U. 
Some may see top 10 lists as trite. However, I doubt you'd ever see anything like this on Letterman. 
Before you read this and call me a reverse sexist witch, stop for a sec­ond and think about it. Guys, most of you have used at least one of these, and girls, I'm sure you've heard more than one. 
Here are the top 10 lies college men tell women: 
1. 
"I'll call you." No, we don't believe that you lost our number either. Ever heard of 411? 

2. 
"ljustwanttoseewhatthescore is." A friend of mine used this one the other day and we ended up watching 45 minutes of Cleveland football. 

3. 
"We're allowed to see other peo­ple." Beware of the man-with-a­girlfriend-who-wants-to date-oth­ers-on-the-side syndrome. Ifyou're allowed to see other people, why do we have to duck under the car seat as we drive past your girlfriend's apartment? 

4. 
"No, my mom really does like you." When you have to assure a woman of that, there's a problem. Ifyour mom liked me so much, how come she chased me around the liv­ing room with a knitting needle last time I was there? 

5. 
"I hate shopping." Yeah, sure you do. Everyone hates acquiring something new, right? 

6. 
"You're not that fat." This goes hand in hand with "Your hair doesn't look that bad." 


Maybe if you said those things without smirking, we would believe you. 
7. 
"I just passed out on her floor." Of course you did. Why would you want to crawl into bed with a Marilyn Monroe look-alike when you can sleep on the linty carpet? 

8. 
"The girl your roommate saw me having lunch with? Oh, she's from my class; we were working on a group project." 

9. 
"I'm really shy." In other words, I don't really like talking to you. 

10. 
"It was mutual." Ever notice that men never admit they were dumped? 


By Lisa Cain 
• 
The Shorthorn 

U. 
of Texas, Arlington 


Marc "Masters" Helfand, a marketing senior from Long Island, N.Y., practical­ly lives, breathes, sleeps and eats magic. 
"I practice at least an hour every day, but I'm constantly thinking about it," he said. 
The 22-year-old transplanted Texan has been studying magic since he was 9 years old. It all started with a plastic magic hat from Toys 'R Us, and he was hooked. 
'Rocky Horror:' rice, elbow sex 
By Jeanie Taft 
• The Technician North Carolina State U. 
Bring plenty of rice, at least two rolls of toilet paper, a newspaper, and don't forget your raincoat. 
Many of you may already know what event requires these items. But for those few innocents still left, these are some of the accessories you need for the infa­mous "Rocky Horror Picture Show." 
This cult film classic is most often seen at midnight shows, when the atmo­sphere is already a bit skewed. It pops Up for runS around the COUntry, USUally at repertory film houses. And wherever 
See HORROR, Page 9 
MUSIC 
Rocking Russians The Soviet Union's Gorky Park releases an album in 
America. 

Helfand, who although a student also performs magic professionally, plans to manage and market his blossoming career after graduation in May. 
"I want to make a good living doing what I love to do," he said. "Donald Trump wouldn't call it a good living, but as long as I'm working, I'll be happy." 
Helfand's main goal is to be a working magician without having to rely on a side business. 
His act consists of a nine-and-a-half minute routine that revolves around a picture on an easel. He creates a James 
See MAGIC MAN, Page 11 
Page10 
BOOKS 
Facing adulthood 
Novel examines inner conflicts faced by a recent college graduate. 
Page 11 
Students start funky coffeehouse 
By Steven Ochs 
• 
The Daily Pennsylvanian 

U. 
of Pennsylvania 


"For me, this place is a sign that the Reagan years may be over," said Associate English Professor Cary Mazer as he sipped on a steaming cup of cap­puccino. 
"This place" is Expresso Bongo, the newest (and perhaps only) coffeehouse in the U. ofPennsylvania's vicinity, created by five present and former university students. Mazer was one of dozens of patrons who turned out for the opening of what may be Philadelphia's funkiest foray into the world of espresso. 
"You'll have to bear with us, because we've never really done this before," said senior Sydney Thornbury, one of the shop's owners, as she greeted guests at the front door. 
Thornbury, a Los Angeles native and late-night coffeehouse groupie, said Expresso Bongo fulfills her dream of a place "just to hang out" in Philadelphia. 
"You can come here and sit forever and we don't care," she said. 
The decor, which Thornbury describes as "just like I had imagined it," is both kitschy and cozy. Bright green walls are framed with purple and black woodwork, and second-hand furniture abounds. 
Thornbury and her four partners ­seniors John Ruocco and Natalie Minardi, junior Brett Keyser and recent graduate Glen Berger -had a lot to overcome. They first charmed the local zoning board into granting approval for the cafe, and then transformed a used clothing shop into a scene reminiscent of a Jack Kerouac novel. 
"John, Sydney, Glen and Brett were all 
See COFFEEHOUSE, Page 9 
MICHAEL RUSSELL, THE TECHNICIAN, NORTH CAROLINA STATE U. 

Fans react at a showing of "The Rocky Horror Picture Show" at the Rialto Theatre in Raleigh. 
DECEMBER 1989 • Life and Art U. THE NATIONAL COLLEGE NEWSPAPER 9 
College students enter the world of tattoos 
By Billy Berkenbile 
• The Daily O'Collegian Oklahoma State U. 
No, they weren't drunk. 
Yes, it hurt. A little. 
And yes, damn it, it's real. 
Above are the responses to the most commonly asked tattoo questions. Don't ever ask a tattooed person those ques­tions. Especially the last one. 
"It's so infuriating," said Dee Dee Parker, Oklahoma State U. senior. "Is it real? 'No, I draw it on every morning.'" 
At the beginning of her search for the perfect parlor, Parker came across some shops straight out of a Hell's Angels text­book. "There were some really frighten­ing ones," she said. "They smelled like urine." She also found a discount "Buy one get one free" parlor. 
But the parlor in Houston where Parker had her tattoo "done" shatters part of The Great American Tattoo Myth. 
"It was as clean as a hospital," she said. "It was strange. He sprayed all this junk on my leg and everything was in alcohol. He had (surgical) gloves on and every needle was brand new. I saw him take it out of the package. 
"The people here are surprised. They think you probably had to go to this real­ly seedy place with towels with blood all over them." 
Chances are good the only parlors that exist in Oklahoma are the really seedy ones. In 1963, the state declared tattoo­ing a misdemeanor punishable by a $500 fine or 90 days in jail. 
Coffeehouse 
Continued from page 8 
in my class last fall when I was new at Penn," said Assistant English Professor Lynda Hart. "We talked quite a bit about the lack of a place here to test out a new play, have a poetry reading or just hang out." 
The five partners, who started reno­vating the space in August, were able to get all ofthe furnishings at thrift shops. The major expenses were for a new cap­puccino machine and electrical work. 
Back in the second room, dubbed the "Leopard Lounge" for its striped chair coverings, George Pavlinsky, a recent graduate from Rider College, smiled as he listened to Harry Belafonte singing "Day-0" on the vintage hi-fi set. 
"The place is just dripping with atmo­sphere," Pavlinsky said. "It's definitely something to see if you are bored with the local scene." 
Out on the back patio, seniors Joe Nelson and Doug Lieberman huddled over a candle. 
"It's really jumpy in there," Lieberman said, referring to the three rooms inside. "But out here it's really nice and peaceful." 
The cafe is currently staffed by the five owners, who can't yet afford to hire help. Hours are 2 p.m. to 2 a.m. on weekdays and 2 p.m. to 4 a.m. on weekends. 
At any rate, Thornbury said, the team's motive is really just to break even. More important than financial success, Thornbury said, will be the reward if Expresso Bongo turns into a cultural meeting place for both the uni­versity and the community. 
But David Adams, a Bennett cafeteria night cook, was tattooed in Stillwater without experiencing jail or seedy par­lors. "A friend did mine," he said. "But I wouldn't advise anyone to get one unless it's professionally done." 
The closest professionals are in Texas and Kansas, but no matter where the tattoo is done, the experience seems to be about the same. 
"I'd be lyingifl saiditdidn'thurt,"said senior Joel Lynch. "It wasn't unbearable. But the guy right before me passed out, so it was like, 'Ohhh, I don't know.' Itjust felt like a lot oflittle pin pricks, though." 
Adams felt more than pins. "It's like someone chewing on your arm for three hours," he said. "It bled bad." 
OSU football player Mike Aboussie said the time spent in pain is definitely worth the gain. 
"Girls like it," he said of his Mickey Mouse. "It's kinda a come-on type deal. It helps strike a conversation. Girls go (in high voice), 'Oh! Where'd you get that? I love it!' " 
Aboussie said his tattoo also serves as a permanent spring wardrobe addition. 
"In the winter you can put on a short sleeve or long sleeve," he said, "and nobody ever notices it. When spring comes along, you can just throw on that tank top and it's like it's brand new again. Everybody starts asking you questions again." 
Lynch said strange looks blossom when the seasons change. 
"When it warms up," he said, "you start wearing shorts andpeople are like, 'Wow! He's different than I thought he was."' 

Classic paintings adorn dormitory walls 
By Eric Smith 
• 
The Daily Californian 

U. 
of California, Berkeley 


Signed, original prints ofwork by such artists as Picasso, Rembrandt, Goya and Chagall are gracing the walls of U. of California, Berkeley students' apart­ments and dormitory rooms this semester. 
Students, faculty and staffwere given the opportunity to borrow prints from the university's library at the beginning ofthe semester. The program is a revival of one that has existed at Berkeley in past years. 
'It's a good service for students," said Alex Warren, head of the university library that provides the prints. "It gives students and faculty a chance to hang something on a wall they wouldn't ordi-

Horror 
Continued from page 8 
it shows up, its cult worshippers come out of the woodwork. 
Be forewarned, "Rocky Horror" is not for the weak of heart, and you will get wet. 
Prior to screenings, restrooms are filled with fans getting ready to perform the movie on stage in front of the screen. 
The plot involves a couple (Susan Sarandon and Barry Bostwick) who are traveling down a road on a dark and stormy night (yes, it really was dark and stormy). Their car just happens to break 
narily have. "They can see the difference between a poster and a real work of art." 
While posters are typically made through photographic means, Warren explained, these prints are etchings, lithographs, engravings or silkscreens usually produced in limited runs super­vised by the artists. 
Students pay a $3 service fee to borrow prints, which range in value from $500 to $1,500, Warren said. 
Borrowers must sign an agreement accepting responsibility for the print. Many students expressed surprise that they could borrow the work of such artists. 
"My cat hangs on the drapes, so I can't imagine what she would do to fine art," sophomore Maya Emshwiller said. 
Faculty members were also surprised. 
"I knew you could check out works of 
down and they just happen to be near a castle, where they go to use the phone. 
The fun really starts when the two meet up with the sweet transvestite from transexual Transylvania, Frank N. Furter (Tim Curry), who makes a better­looking woman than man. What ensues is a lot of kinky sex and singing. 
What makes the show, however, is the camaraderie, the atmosphere, and the chances to yell obscenities at a movie screen without getting in trouble. Usually, the louder and more obnoxious you are, the better. However, there is a certain organization within the chaos. 
For instance, every time the maid and butlerget together, people begin to chant art, but I wasn't aware it was by such major artists," said history of art Chair Andrew Stuart. 
Warren said he believes the collection is the only service of its kind in the Bay Area and "probably very unique" among major universities. 
The collection was started in 1958 through a grant by the Columbia Foundation. The collection at that time numbered 158 prints; it now contains almost 2,000. 
Journalism professor David Littlejohn was a UC Berkeley undergraduate from 1955 through 1959 and was one of the first to borrow from the collection. Littlejohn said he remembers that the two original prints he and his roommate put up "really did impress our friends." 
"The only way you could get what you wanted was to get there early," he said. 
"elbow sex, elbow sex, elbow sex." Also, at designated times both toilet paper and rice are thrown throughout the theater. 
If all of this isn't weird enough, there is always the infamous "Time Warp" dance. 
At a designated point in the movie everyone files up to the front, and even the extremely self-conscious find them­selves gyrating their hips to the bizarre tune. 
There is some danger to all this. For instance, you could get hit on the head with an entire roll of toilet paper, or you could get soaking wet. Or worse, you could really enjoy yourself and become one of the regulars. 

10 U. THE NATIONAL COLLEGE NEWSPAPER Life and Art • DECEMBER 1989 
Drummer mixes blues, college classes 
By Brian J. Shults 
• 
The Shorthorn 

U. 
of Texas, Arlington 


Chris Hunter beat his drums, but he 
loathed what he heard. Frustrated, he 
threw his sticks across the playroom 
and pounded the tom-toms until reach­
ing exhaustion. 
That was 11 years ago. Hunter was 8. 
"I would hearin my mind what I want­ed to play, and I would hear what I was playing, and I hated it," he said. 
Now, after a decade of practice, the 19­year-old business sophomore is a pro­fessional drummer with the blues band Cold Blue Steel. 
Learning percussion principles from a veteran performer helped Hunter overcome his impatience. 
Blues drummer Doyle Bramhall, who was dating Chris' mother, taught him drum beats, holding the boy's small hands over the drumsticks during lessons. 
"Doyle would leave for a week, and then he'd come back. By then, I'd have the drum beat down," Hunter said. 
This zeal to learn impressed his men­tor. 
"When I started playing the drums, I wanted to learn as much as I could as fast as I could," Bramhall remembers. "Chris had that same desire." 
"I was always going to nightclubs watching Doyle play," Hunter said. "My goal was to be just like him." 
Barbara Logan, Hunter's mother, said that when he began playing, music had little to do with his new hobby. 
"The first time Chris sat behind the drums, he just started banging on them," she said. 
Logan noticed her daughter could work with the drums better than Chris could. "His sister was really trying to carry a beat and hear the different sounds. Chris was just banging on them," Logan said. "But she lost inter­est." 
Chris never did. If he ever had, Cold Blue Steel might not have a permanent drummer today. 
Hunter offered to help the band one weekend when Bramhall, who had been filling in with Cold Blue Steel, was busy with his own group. 
"We said, 'Hey, Chris, can you hold down the gig?' and he said, 'Yeah, sure,'" bass player Tony Dukes said. 
Then school work was another gig that had to be held down. 
"I never looked at drumming as tak­ing away from anything. If anything, it enhances my schoolwork," Hunter said. "I know the music business isn't some­thing I would want to always have to rely on." 
He said a business degree would be ideal for a musician and help him with negotiations. 
But pursuing the degree and a musi­cal career at the same time has meant some sacrificing of sleep. 
Hunter's mother noted, "It can't be easy having an 8 a.m. class after being out until 3 in the morning. He has amazed me in his judgment and ability to take care of himself." 
By Wendy Greene 
• Columbia Spectator Columbia U. 
Rock 'n' roll doesn't need repressive authority to be great: the illusion serves as well as the real thing. Sure, young Jon Bon Jovi may have hated his parents on occasion, or may have done a few rebel­lious things like cutting classes or defac­ing desktops. But he also was probably considered a pretty well-adjusted kid, with all the standard choirboy frustra­tions. 
Soviet band Gorky Park, in their self­titled debut album, took Bon Jovi as a role model. However, Gorky Park, the first Soviet band to release an album in America, is authentically rebellious. 
SOUNDBITES 
Red Hot Chili Peppers 
Mother's Milk 
This latest collection of punk-funk from Los Angeles' Chili Peppers finds is a step backward. "Magic Johnson," for instance, is a grating earache of a rap which glorifies the 
L.A. Lakers. Certainly a talented group, the Peppers have once again failed to match the jagged grooves of their first record, still their finest work. • Bill White, The Emory Wheel, Emory U. 
Janet Jackson 
Rythmn Nation 1814 
Janet Jackson, the prototype for 
Gorky Park, the first Soviet band to release an album in America. 
From Russia with rock 
Founding members Alexei Belov and Nikolai, while in a pre-Gorky Park group called Moscow, were forbidden to play rock 'n' roll by the Soviet government. 
Officials said the "look" of rock was not acceptable because it made kids go crazy and created an uncontrolled environ­ment. The two, nevertheless, continued to play clubs and arrange music for other bands. 
One of the groups they collaborated with was led by Stas Namin, now Gorky Park's manager. Namin's group, Flowers, sold more than 12 million sin­gles in Russia before the government cracked down. 
The trio later founded Gorky Park, and in addition to selling millions of 
See GORKY PARK, Page 11 

female dance artists like Jody Watley, Paula Abdul and Sheena Easton, con­tinues to grow with this album. Although Rhythm Nation 1814 fails to fully realize its conceptual and musical aims, it is Jackson's best effort. Producers Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis return to provide grooves that are more expansive and developed than those on Control; most songs run past five min­utes and are full of pulsating bass lines and churning drums. Lyrically, Jackson displays a social conscience, discussing issues like drugs, crime, family deterioration and education. ''The Knowledge" says it plainly: "We are in a race between education and catastrophe." Only her thin voice, which frequently lacks conviction, holds things down. Nevertheless, a great record. • Craig Hausman, The Daily Trojan, U. of Southern California 
Wine, cheese, ,high fashion ­and rock music? 
By Elisabeth'vincentelli 
• The Daily Targum Rutgers U. 
Let's face it, France has never spelled R-0-C-K for Americans. It's the country of wine and cheese, the kingdom of per­manently dressed-up fashion victims and obscure post-modernist philoso­phers. 
But have you ever heard of any French rock bands? 
Any visitor to Paris has for years been able to hear a curious mix of wimpy con­tinental pop (called la uariete by the locals) and international mega-stars such as Dire Straits, the Cure or Madonna. But there is also now a cre­ative, diverse and healthy alternative French music scene, thriving despite the absence of college radio. 
Several groups are now on U.S. record labels, including the electronic-oriented Trisomie 21 (on the Wax Trax label) and the exuberant Gallic outfit Les negress­es vertes (soon to be released by Sire over here). From the anarcho-punk spirit exemplified by the incredibly popular Beruriers N oirs to the steamy dance music played by Kassav (zouk, the party music from the French West Indies), the French are now succeeding in carving a niche on the European scene. 
Even the old school of uariete is getting better and better, with people as Uruguayan-born Elli Medeiros and her tropical funk, or even the Velvet Underground-influenced Etienne Daho. 
The French still can't play straight "rock," but they have become pretty good at perverting it, and even more impor­tant, they are finally writing decent lyrics in their native tongue on a beat faster than "My Way" (penned by a Frenchman, incidently). 
Les Satellites are part of the Bondage roster and produce a joyous, humorous, somewhat anarchic brand of rhythm 'n' blues, something you wouldn't expect the French to tackle. Showing a cartoon­ing sense of humor, they even make fun of "les americains:" "Their houses are bigger/they're more comfortable/their ice-creams are bigger/therefore people are happier." 
See FRENCH ROCK, Page 11 
COURTESY A&M RECORDS 
Janet Jackson 
DECEMBER 1989 • life and Art U. THE NATIONAL COLLEGE NEWSPAPER 11 
'Bicycle Days' chronicles passage into adulthood 
By Eric K. Gabrielle 
• 
Independent Florida Alligator 

U. 
of Florida 


John Burnham Schwartz, 24, has qui­etly but forcefully appeared on the liter­ary scene with his first novel, "Bicycle Days." Schwartz graduated from Harvard in 1987, specializing in East Asian studies while intending to become 
Gorky Park 
Continued from page 10 
albums in Russia, the group is now mak­ing inroads in America. 
After gainin~ the attention ofBon Jovi manager Doc McGhee, Gorky Park con­tributed a song to the Make a Difference Foundation album, the recording of August's Moscow Peace Festival. This led to a deal with PolyGram records. 
Gorky Park's American debut is sur­prisingly good --a solid pop metal record among the dozens of mediocre ones in the recent leather explosion. 
Its single, "Bang," rocks hard as the singer, Nikolai, belts out unintelligible stories of Russian gangs. We even get some Russian radio broadcasts in the background of the catchy "Hit Me with the News." 

French rock 
Continued from page 10 
M.K.B., who are also on the Bondage label, sound sort of like a continental version of Big Black. Songs like "Toulouse" and "1989" feel like boiling lead in your bowels. 
These two records can be ordered directly from their label in Paris (Bondage Productions, 17 rue de Montreuil 75011 Paris, France). 

Magic man 
Continued from page 8 
Bond -type fantasy using wine, roses and candles to complete the illusion. 
"This is my favorite act, the one I use for competitions," Helfand said. "But I adapt my show for each particular audi­ence." 
Helfand performs locally for several elementary schools, day-care centers and children's birthday parties. He stresses safety during his Halloween performances while keeping itenjoyable for the youngsters. 
He also teaches children's classes for the local park and recreation depart­ment. 
Besides entertaining children, Helfand performs at private parties, nightclubs and conventions--as many as 250 shows one summer. 
He stimulates his creativity by read­ing old magic books from the '30s and '40s and updating and rennovating old ideas. 
"Books are my main aid, they teach you a lot of the fundamentals. You can never read enough in this field." 
Helfand also learns from his fellow magicians. He belongs to both the Fort Worth and Dallas magic clubs. 
"It's like a fraternity in a sense," he said. ''You have a brotherhood of magi­cians in every city." 
an investment banker. As he completed a summer internship in Japan, he recon­sidered. 
On the advice of friends, he submitted "Bicycle Days" to a publisher. The result is an impressive and highly enjoyable glimpse into the life of Alec Stern, a young Yale graduate working in the Tokyo office of an American computer company. 
Schwartz's novel is in the category of bildungsroman; it's an examination of the personal and psychological growth of the protagonist. Alec's experiences are chronicled in a series of vignettes that portray the life and times of a young man coming to terms with himself and his surroundings. The book also illustrates the conflicts that arise when this process occurs in an unfamiliar society. 
"Bicycle Days" is delightful and fulfill­ing both as an exercise in character development and as a vision of contem­porary Japan. The vivid and brief chap­ters motivate the reader to continue and eventually make you regret nearing the end of the book. The range of Alec's unusual experiences are compelling and evoke interest in where he, and Schwartz, will be going next. 

Buy a2-pack ofMemorex HBS"'JI C-90 or C-100 Audio Cassettes at your college book store, and 
Enclosed are proofs ofpurchase from ___HBS IIwe'll give you a$2 rebate. Here's what you do: C-90 orC-100 2-packs. Please send my refund of
First, buy the tape. Duh. $ (limit $4) to:Then send us the following stuff: ~THE UPC SYMBOL OFF THE 2-PACK BAG. (No individual cas­
NAME sette UPCs will be accepted) ~THE ORIGINAL DATED CASH REGISTER ADDRESS RECEIPT WITH DATE AND PURCHASE PRICE CIRCLED. CITY ~THIS COMPLETED FORM. Send it to: $2 HBS II Refund, Dept. 3336, Lubbock, STATE ZIP TX 79491. 
ADDITIONAL TERMS OF OFFER 
Thiscompleted form must accompany request and may not be mechanically Please allow 6-8 weeks for delivery. Offer good only in U.S.A., only on pur­reproduced. chases made by December 31, 1989. Requests must be received by January Limit two $2 refunds per family, household, or address. Group and organiza­15,1990. tion requests will not be honored. This offer not to be used in conjunction with any other offer. 
Offer good only on Memorex HBS"ll C-90 orC-100 2-pack bags. Ifyou have any questions about this offer, please write MEMTEK PRODUCTS, Offer void where prohibited by law, taxed or restricted. Customer Service, 1516 53rd Street, Lubbock, TX 79408. 
I. Husker Du and the Time both came  2. "Kiss Me, Kiss Me, Kiss Me;· was an  3. The rock movie, "The Last Waltz;'  4. Aerosmith in recent years toured with  
from which city? a) Boston, b) New York,  album by: a) Echo and the Bunnymen,  featured which group? a) The Who, b)  which group? a) Guns & Roses, b) Slayer,  
c) Athens, Georgia, d) Minneapolis  b) Love and Rockets, c) The Cure, d) The  The Rolling Stones, c) The Jefferson  c) Metallica, d) Living Color  
Pixies  Starship, d) The Band  

OFFICIAL MEMOREX'M MUSIC TRIVIA SWEEPSTAKES ENTRY FORM. Name: Colle e: Answers: 2. 3. 4. 
Address: City: State: Zip: T-Shirt Size: 
SEND TO: MEMOREX'" SWEEPSTAKES, P.O. BOX 4600, BLAIR, NE 68009 
MEMOREX SWEEPSTAKES OFFICIAL RULES. NO PURCHASE NECESSARY HERE'S HOW 1D ENTER I. On an Official Entry Form only, hand print your complete name, Social Security number, address, zip code and phone number Check oiT your answers to all the questions listed on the entry form. in order to be eligible to win, all questions on the entry form must be answered correcUy, and the entry form must be fully completed. 2. Mail your postage-paid, pre-addressed entry card to: Memorex Sweepstakes, P.O. Box 4600, Blair, NE 68009. No photocopied or mechanically reproduced entries permitted. Entries must be received by the December 4, I989 or January 3, 1990 deadlines for consideration. No responsibility is assumed for lost, late or misdirected mail. 3. Winners for the November monthly prizes will be selected in arandom drawing on or about December II, 1989 from among all eligible entries received by December 4, 1989. Winners for the December monthly prizes and the Grand Prize will be selected in arandom drawing on or about)anuary 10, 1990, by D.L. Blair/West, Inc, an independent judging organization, whose decisions are final. If an insuffiCient number of correct entries is receJVed, winner will be drawn from entries with the next highest number ofcorrect answers. 1\\lo 121 Grand Pnzes of-A 4day/3 night trip (approximate retail value: $2,500 each) for two (2) to London, England, including roundtrip airfare from the gateway airport closest to the winner's home, hotel accommodations in London and one (I) dinner for two (2) persons at the Rock Garden. Monthly prizes-100 tee-shirts awarded in two 121 random drawings from among all eligible entries received by the foregoing two 121 deadlines (approximate retail value: $14.00 each). Total retail value: $7,800. 4. Sweepstakes open only to U.S. college students. if a minor wins, prize will be awarded in the name of his/her parent or guardian. Minors must be accompanied by parent or guardian on the trip. Employees ofAmerican Collegiate Network, Memtek Products, D.L. Blair/West Inc., their subsidiaries, advertising and promotional agencies and the families ofeach are not eligible. All federal, state and local laws and regulations apply. Void in Puerto Rico and where prohibited by Jav.: The odds ofwinning will depend on the number ofeligible entries received. Taxes on any prize received are the sole responsibility of the winner. Winner will be notified by maiL All potential winners must respond to any required Affidavit of Eligibility/Release of Liability/Prize Acceptance Form within 21 days of attempted delivery of same. Winner's travelling companion will be required to execute aRelease of Liability within the same time period. Failure to comply within the lime allotted will re~ult in disqualification an~ an alternate winner will be selected.ltip must be.taken by January 3, 199.1. 5. For alist of major prize wi~ners, available after Mar~h
12, nd astamped, self-addressed# 10 envelope to: Memorex Wmners, P.O. Box 4678, Blair, NE 68009. ©1989 Memtek Products Memorex IS atrademark and servJCemark of Memorex Corporation licensed to Memtek Products. 

THE NATIONAL COLLEGE NEWSPAPER 
Report by Charles A. Hahn 
U. Editor 
This is the first of several special reports about student issues and concerns scheduled to appear in U. The National College Newspaper this academic year. 
The reports will be written or directed by U.'s editors on fellowship, with contributions from members of the American Collegiate Network. 
This report about students' involvement in the administrative search process exam­ines a key facet of student governance. It investigates how much input students have in the selection of officials at their colleges and universitities and whether they do their part when given input. 
In February, U. will publish aspecial report about job and career opportunities for grad­uating seniors in various job markets. 
Design by Jacki Hampton 

U. Editor 
Photos by Tommy Comeaux 
Louisiana State U. 

Brad Camp 
Kansas State U. 

Lori Wasselchuk 
U. of Minnesota 

Eric O'Connell 
New Mexico State U. 

SPECIAL REP 









Contributi 
Students help sele 
When Louisiana State U. student Suzette Kuhlow volunteered to serve on the committee to select her school's new chancellor, her expectations were mod­est. Perhaps she would have some influence. Perhaps she would learn something. Eight months later, Kuhlow found herself leading finalists for the LSU chancellorship on tours of the campus, giving them their only view ofthe school in its spontaneous, unpack­aged form. During this critical stage of the search, a student ran the show. 
"Serving on the committee was def­initely one of the best experiences I've had," Kuhlow said. "The universi­ty was trusting me with influencing these people's deci­
.
swns. " 
Kuhlow is one of many students nationwide who help their schools select new officials. 
Student repre­sentation on admin­istrative search committees, which became widespread during the 1960s, is 

"serving on the committee was one of the best experi­ences I've had." 
-Suzette Kuhlow, Louisiana State 
viewed by student leaders and administrators alike as a vital aspect of student governance. 
However, while universities acknowledge the need to involve students, some students question whether their input is as significant as officials assert. 
Also, many administrators and student leaders agree that despite the importance of searches, students often fail to show enough interest. Those willing to commit the time required by a search are scarce, and members of the student body frequently show little interest in searches or the activities of their own representatives. 
The LSU chancellor search 
In the case of Kuhlow, her involvement or influence could not have been much greater. Nor, in the case of a chancellor search, could the stakes have been higher. 
The search lasted eight months, finally ending this past spring with the selection of William "Bud" Davis. Kuhlow was the lone student on the committee, which represented various university constituencies, including faculty and administration. 
After months of screening resumes, the committee brought finalists to campus for interviews. Kuhlow found herself immersed in an increasingly intense process. 
Some meetings lasted a full eight hours, and the committee occasionally met on Saturday. 
The choice of Davis left Kuhlow satisfied with both the final decision and her experi­ence on the committee. 
"He's working with students, and he's mak­ing one of the issues I brought up, child care, a school-wide priority," she said. "He's defi­nitely living up to his campaign promises." 
Student input 
Like Kuhlow, many students found that they were listened to by other committee members. "I don't know if it's some kind of rit­ual or what, but they always ask the student for questions and input," said Michael Hull, a Southern Illinois U., Carbondale student goverment leader who served on a committee that chose a new vice president for academic and budgetary affairs. Throughout most of the process, Hull said, he felt thoroughly involved and free to ask questions of candi­dates. 
Hull chose to focus on issues he felt addressed the broad needs of the student body. "I asked questions along the lines of 'Why do you want this job?' and left the more technical questions to the faculty and admin­istrators." · 
Sue Blodgett, a graduate student in enty­mology at Kansas State U. who served on a committee seeking a new vice president for research, focused on questions of recruitment and student needs. "We were looking at mak­ing Kansas State more grad-student friend­ly," Blodgett said. "I asked candidates questions about student stipends, day care, health insurance, and the flexbility of univer­sity rules and policies for students with spe­cial needs." 
Like many other students interviewed for this report, Blodgett characterized her input as "equal" to that of other committee mem­bers. "The committee members were repre­senting different concerns and constituen­cies, and I felt like I was able to effectively represent the concerns of students." 
The search process 
Search commit­tees are widely used at colleges and universities to select admnistra­tive officers. While the structure and composition of com­mittees vary wide­ly, the typical search body con­tains 10 to 20 mem­bers and represents a variety of con­stituencies, such as faculty, staff, administrators and alumni. 
After a positionhas been adver­
..__________...... tised, a committee reviews applications and selects candidates to be interviewed. While decisions can be made by vote, typically a committee will seek a consensus through dia­logue. Often, two or more candidates are rec­ommended and the final hiring decision is left to the chief officer of the administrative area in question. While resumes are reviewed, no informa­tion about specific candidates is divulged in 

''J: felt like I was able to effectively represent the con­cerns ofstudents." 
-Sue HU)tt2:ett 
Kansas State U. 
order to protect 
th cy has been know ty, and other me munity hungry many student re the wisdom ofkee secret. "The prevaili argument for seer cy is there's a lot media attention a searches," note Bliss McCracken, 
U. of New Mexic student serving o her school's pres dential search con mittee. "Anytim the press reveal that this person ( that person is a car didate, their cm rent job could q jeopardized. Als~ publicity can allo1 
the search to politicized." After the field hf been pared down, ally presented to Students and oth tunity to meet ca 
Committee men and a sense of co times transcends stituencies. 
"It's almost surJ student-faculty d seen," says U. o Phillips Shively. 
"Faculty and st together to make cess, and the 
st energy and persp 
Not all student. Some argue th· searches are too s and that the few mittees are prod 
Four high-level the U. ofWiscons1 year. According t pus news editor The Daily Cardi1 the vacancies as "This was seen as might come alan some felt that th( said. 
Although there on the search com ers asserted thi According to Meg the Wisconsin WSN.s call for ne administration d and they rarely dent's voice on a weighed." 
However, Mary at the U. ofWisc 
RT-DECEMBER 1989 



gto the process 
university administrators 
ir current jobs. This secre­to agitate students, facul­ers of the university com­r information. However, resentatives understand · ng candidates' indentities 
r 
''He (President) is interested in allow­e ing more student . t"
mpu. 
U. of Minnesota 
s 

slate of candidates is usu­he university community. xs are afforded the oppor­didates at public forums. hers often develop rapport mon purpose that some­the interests of their con-
rising how rare it is to get 
vision based on what I've 
·Minnesota Professor W. 
dent members often work 
a contribution to the pro­
dent members often add 
paint such a rosy picture. 
• university personnel cretive for adequate input, tudents who serve on com­ets of university tokenism. 
officials were selected at 1, Madison, during the past pJane Christiansen, cam­lor the student newspaper, ~al, some students viewed 1 chance to shake things up. Ia chance to diversify which ~ once in a generation, and ~ university fell short," she 
!was studentrepresentation mittees, some student lead­s made little difference. rtan Henson, co-president of Student Association, the :blood went unheeded. "The idn't listen to us this time 'o," Henson said. "One stu­ommittee can be easily out-
K. Rouse, dean of students msin, defended the level of student input and noted that the WSA has control over which students serve on commit­tees. "Every constituency, including stu­dents, ought to have a say in the affairs of the university," she said.' 
Paul Mickley, a student at Central Michigan U., served on the committee which chose a new vice president for university rela­tions. Mickley expressed some skepticism about how much input he had despite calling the search "a good experience." 
"The people in charge listened and took my views into account, but whether they did much with it I don't know," Mickley said. 
The committee ultimately selected Russell Herron, a candidate from within the univer­sity. 
Even where students do get meaningful representation, the impact they have can vary. At the U. Minnesota, for example, a stu­dent consultative committee found its choice for vice president of academic affairs over­looked by the administration. 
"I was disappointed, but I understood that the vice president had to have the support of the faculty and deans," said Eric Huang, chairman of the eight-member student com­mittee charged with providing a student rec­ommendation. 
Despite the disappointment, Huang char­acterized the amount of student input as ade­quate. "I'm happy with the president's 
response to our request for student involvement. He's interested in allow­ing more student input." 
How many 
students? 
Whether there is a nationwide trend toward more stu­dent input is diffi­cult to estimate. 
"Almost 15 years ago, it was difficult for universities to not have students on committees. 
Students were 
-MikeAntiporda, active and they had 
New Mexico State U. an agenda," said Ted Marchesy, vice president of the American Association for Higher Education. "Today, it is politically possible to have no students on a committee." 
AAHE produces "The Search Committee Handbook," a guide provided to colleges and universities. The handbook recommends having one or more students on as many search committees as possible. This has many benefits, Marchesy said, including pos­sibly legitimizing a search in the eyes of the student body. 
"We don't have a flat-out rule, but to me there should be a presupposition that there should be students on committees, partly because it makes the committees more effec­tive and partly because it's a learning expe­rience for the students." 
Student input is often more effective when more than one student serves, he said. "If you have one student, it's like being the token minority. It's so much better to have two or more." 

At the U. of New Mexico, student leaders have sought unsuccessfully to provide for multiple students on the uni­versity's presiden­tial search commit­tee. "I feel that one student can't repre­sent the broad interests of the stu­dent body," said Marc Montoya, edi­tor of the universi­ty's student news­paper. "It was 

brought up by stu­dent leaders that one isn't enough, but that was 

brushed aside." 
Another advantage of multiple representa­tion, Marchesy said, is that it allows students to feel more comfortable amidst faculty and administrators. Kuhlow, although warmly welcomed by the chancellor committee, felt intimidated at first. "The first day I walked in I was terrified because there were a lot of high-caliber people on the committee," she said. 
When should students serve? 
Although the AAHE handbook recom­mends one or more students on all search committees, Marchesy says there is debate at colleges and universities over what positions most require student input. "Everyone would agree that there should be students on a search committee for the dean of students. Should there also be students on a search for the director of the computer center? Well, maybe." 
At Central Michigan U., according to Vice President for University Relations Russell Herron, "There are some committees that are much more visible to students. Our students have varying degrees of input depending on what the position is." 
The number of students and the process by which they are chosen is sometimes deter­mined by university-wide policy, although in other cases practices may vary from college to college or department to department. 
An example is Indiana's Ball State U., according to student government adviser James Marine. "The decision to put a student on a search committee is typically made by the ranking officer in a particular area," he said. 
The question of apathy 
One question continually raised by skeptics is that of student apathy toward the search process. Are significant numbers of students really interested in serving? And does the stu­dent body at large really care? 
Many student leaders concede such ques­tions are legitimate. Most search committees meet at least an hour a week initially and then more frequently during a search's latter stages, and to find students willing to take on such a committment is not easy. 
The situation at New Mexico State U. is symbolic of problems nationwide. "A lot of people in the student government are anx­ious to volunteer, but you want to find a bal­ance between the people who are overextend­ed and the people who haven't volunteered as much before," said student government Vice President Mike Antiporda. 
"We couldn't possibly find a student for every single position that opens up, but for the larger positions, we try to." 
At Southern Illinois U., students serve on virtually every search committee formed. As a result, said student body President Tim Hildebrand, it is difficult to find enough stu­dents to serve. 
"It seems like there are about 3,000 search­es every year," he said. 
The problem is often underscored by mini­mal attendance at the public candidate forums which occur toward the end of search­es. According to Herron, "not many students showed up" at his public address during the vice presdent for university relations search at Central Michigan U. 
"For a lot of students, administration is not foremost in their minds. They have a lot of other things tugging at their time, social con­cerns, academic concerns, etc.," Herron said. 
Wisconsin Dean of Students Rouse said stu­dent apathy at colleges and universities mir­rors that in the general society. "There is not as much student involvement and participa­tion as I would like, and I could generalize the same thing with the American popula­tion," she said. 
Others argue that concerns about apathy have been blown out of proportion. "For the longest time I've been hearing complaints about student apathy," said the U. of New Mexico's McCracken. "But I've found that people are willing to participate ifthey know what's going on. Once people learn more about a search, they're more interested." 
This controversy may have caused some student rep­resentatives to be held to unreason­able standards of participation. Faculty members who are quiet on committees are not immediately labelled as apathet­ic or unintereseted, AAHE's Marchesy notes. 
Central Michigan U. 
"I've seen stu­dents not doing anything next to faculty members not doing anything, and then afterward you hear, 'So we have students on committees, and they don't do anything.' " 

See SPECIAL REPORT, Page 22 


14 U. THE NATIONAL COLLEGE NEWSPAPER Dollars and Sense • DECEMBER 1989 

Ce,OLUMN 
Agreement 
offers jobs, 
opportunities 
By Carole Wiedmayer 
• The Western Front Western Washington U. 
Graduating students will be among the first to face both the opportunities and the challenges presented by the Canada-U.S. Free Trade Agreement. 
The landmark agreement between the two countries, while hotly debated in Canada, seems of only passing interest to many Americans. 
Perhaps this is because the United States doesn't think it has as much at stake as Canada. We're 10 times their size in terms of gross 
' national product. Three-quarters of Canada's exports come here, while we sell them only one-quar­ter of our exports. Viewed in these terms, it seems they have more to gain than we do in terms of untapped markets. But think again: 70 percent of all United States and Canadian jobs are in the service sector, and the FTA allows many kinds of service businesses to engage in free trade. It is now possible to apply for Canadian professional and busi­ness licenses and open offices in Canada. No longer needed is the tennis racket or set of golf clubs to justify crossing the border. Canadian Trade Commissioner Peter Fraser, in an April 11 article in the Seattle Post-lntelligencer, made some recommendations. 
• See what Canada offers, cross the horder, or at least pick up some 
Canadian publications to get a feel for the business climate. 
• 
Start networking hy going to their conferences and contacting professional organizations. 

• 
Help promote information­sharing about the agreement. 

• 
Read the FTA. 


While the agreement represents an opportunity to expand business north ofthe border, it also will bring increased competition, which is not a bad thing unless we fail to recog­nize the emerging need to compete with our neighbor to the north. 
A little knowledge now could pay ofT for graduates. 
CRIME 
Conned 
Man rooks students out of more than $3,000 in phony apartment scam. 
Page15 
From homeless shelter 
r 
to Stanford dorm room 
I 
By Janine De Fao 
• The Stanford Daily Stanford U. 
"I don't want all this attention that I'm getting. It doesn't seem like I deserve it. I just want to be an ordinary Stanford student." 
Stanford U. freshman Lupe Vasquez considered her child­hood dreams exaggerated. She used to wish that she had a house like her classmates, or new clothes. Now, she has more than she ever imagined. 
Vasquez, who until fall semester was homeless, has not only found a home at Stanford, but has received national media attention in the process, including being named ABC's "Person of the Week" on ''World News Tonight." 
Vasquez is one of the few students in the country to attend a major university after being homeless. 
Born in Mexico, she lived in a homeless shelter in Oxnard, Calif., near Los Angeles, before she moved into her freshman dorm. Her family moved to the shelter a year ago after being evicted from their small apartment when they could not pay the rent. 
At the shelter, Vasquez, her mother, stepfather and four sib­lings shared one room containing beds and a table. Though her parents spoke no English, Vasquez learned the language 
See STANFORD, Page 17 
Law students give time, research to prisoners 
By Connie Stambush 
• Indiana Daily Student Indiana U. 
On one side of a small table sits a man in his late 30s. Itis obvious from his mus­cles that he works to maintain his physique. But then, he has little else to do. 
He speaks in a soft, polite tone to the young woman across from him. He has a problem concerning his prison sen­tence and needs advice. She listens as he tells his story. 
The young woman doesn't give advice at this time, even though he seeks it dili­gently. She promises to do legal research 
Expert predicts decline in living standard 
Blames drop in numberofengineering, science graduates 
By Max Evans 
• 
University Daily Kansan 

U. 
of Kansas 


The number of degrees awarded to 
U.S. citizens and permanent resi­dents in engineering and other sci­ences, particularly at the graduate level, is down across the country, and it may cause a decline in the U.S. stan­dard ofliving in the next 15-20 years, according to one national expert. 
Christopher Hill, senior specialist in science and technology at the Congressional Research Service of the Library of Congress, said that in gen­eral having foreign students is a good thing and shows one of America's strengths, but indicates a domestic 
BUSINESS . 
Learning about competitors 
Business majors are studying Japanese to understand their foreign competitors and to get an edge over other 
American business students. 
to see if she can help. 
The woman is not a lawyer. She is one of about 20 Indiana U. law students who volunteer time to an organization called the Inmate Legal Assistance Clinic. 
ILAC provides legal advice to inmates at the Federal Penitentiary in Terre Haute. Twice a month, about 10 interns and supervising attorney Betsy Greene travel to the prison to interview inmates who have written for help. Notices post­ed throughout the prison tell inmates about the program. 
The students listen to prisoners' ques­tions and then discuss the cases with Greene, a full-time associate with the Bloomington law firm ofNunn & Kelley. 
problem. 
"I don't see a problem in foreign stu­dents getting degrees. But, we're sim­ply not going to have all the folks we need to develop new products and pro­cesses, the people who will do the truly path-breaking work." 
He added that the United States will have to import that knowledge in addi­tion to products and that the country would have less export profits with which to pay the burgeoning U.S. inter­national debt. 
"We've got to make things and sell them," he said. "We owe some $6 or $7 billion to someone overseas, and we at least have to pay back the interest." 
"Right now, we import more engi­neers than we do cars -particularly 
Page15 
ENTREPRENEUR 
Book on bucks 
'Spare Time Cash' gives ideas to help students start their own businesses. 
Page17 
CHRIS EISENBERG, THE STANFORD DAILY, STANFORD U. 
Freshman Lupe Vasquez was homeless until fall semseter 1989. 
Greene provides legal advice to the interns and decides which cases to take. She also appoints a student director each year who handles administrative mat­ters. 
About 20 students, mostly second-year law students, research the inmate's problems and obtain court records the prisoners may not have access to. Students meet weekly to discuss the cases. 
ILAC interns also handle problems prisoners may experience after they are imprisoned in Indiana, Greene said. Many prisoners, arrested and tried in other states, were moved to Indiana 
See LAW, Page 15 
in the area of faculty. We are now, more than ever, dependent on foreign human resources," Hill said. 
In the early '80s, Hill said, interest in engineering "grew like crazy," but has declined over the last few years. He added that the number of degrees in physical science, computer science and mathematics also have dropped. 
Tom Mulinazzi, associate dean of engineering at the U. of Kansas, said that undergraduate engineering enrollment was down more than 9 percent from last year. He said that many students perceive engineering as too difficult, leading them to pusue other fields of study. 
"Business is perceived as making 
See SCIENCE, Page 17 
DECEMBER 1989 • Dollars and Sense U. THE NATIONAL COLLEGE NEWSPAPER 15 
Man cons $3,000 from students in apartment scam 
By Jeff Rubin 
• Daily Free Press Boston U. 
At least three Boston U. students fell victim to an alleged con man who posed as a landlord and then dis­appeared with more than $3,000 of their apartment deposit money, a BU official revealed in September. 
The man called his company "Beacon Realty" and used an answering service for all correspondence, BU Director of Orientation and Off-Campus Services Maureen L. Hurley said. 
Calling himself Steven Hubert, the man said the business was run by himself and his brother Kevin and owned by his father, Kevin Sr., said College of Engineering student Dennis Corsi. 
Corsi gave the man $1,275 in first and last month's 
Japanese language enrollment doubles 
By Amy Barnes 
• The Evergreen Washington State U. 
Washington State U. students are fol­lowing an international trend by enrolling in Japanese language courses. 
According to a national survey by the Modern Language Association of America, enrollment inJapanese cours­es has more than doubled since 1987. 
"At WSU, enrollment in Japanese classes has increased phenomenally," said Aloysius Chang, professor in the department of foreign languages and literatures. 
In 1972, only 30 students were study­ing Japanese at WSU. 
But since 1985, the department has been overwhelmed by interest in the classes, Chang said. 
In 1985, there were 50 students in Japanese 301, he said. "In 1988, the number increased to over 90 students, and in 1989 we are offering two sections of the class to accommodate 105 stu­dents." 
"Japan is an economic world power and the interest in their language and cuiture is increasing because of this," he said. The increased numbers reflect a world trend, Chang said. 
Law 
Continued from page 14 
because of prison overcrowding. 
Because the Terre Haute prison library holds only Indiana law books, interns look up out-of-state laws to assist prisoners working on their own appeals. 
John Sullivan, a second-year law stu­dent, said it gives him a sense of satis­faction when the program is able to resolve inmate problems. 
ILAC was able to get the prison to incorporate certain types of foods in the menu, such as kosher, to accommodate religious groups. 
"It may seem small to you or me, but it's a big deal to them," Sullivan said. 
Tara Jackson, an intern since 1987, said interns often feel frustrated by the justice system. And it worked, Jackson said. There was nothing ILAC could do. 
"There are unfairnesses; but you get used to it and just do what you can," she said. 
rent and a security deposit. Apparently Hubert was the only person involved in the scheme. "I met him at the apartment and saw it," Corsi said. "I never thought to check his identification or thought to check his office." The scam was uncovered on Aug. 15, when two School 
"I just thought it was a hell of a deal and a nice place.... I never thought to check his identification, or thought to check his office." 
-Dennis Corsi, 
Boston U. student 
ofLaw students went to pick up keys to the apartment andwere told by the answering service thatthe account for the realty agent had been closed, Hurley said. 
The case is now under investigation with the Boston Police, who would not return phone calls. Hurley said she did not know if there were any suspects. 
An advertisement for the apartment was printed in a July issue of the Boston Globe, Corsi said, adding that he called the phone number listed in the ad and reached the answering service.An appointment then was made with Hubert, he said. 
Corsi was shown a modem, spacious apartment on two occasions atthe end of July, he said. Hubert told him the monthly rent would be $850 a month, Corsi said. 
"Ijustthoughtitwas a hell of a deal and a nice place," Corsi said. He proceeded to pay the landlord imposter $1,275 for deposit at the end of July and did not hear from him for two weeks, he said. 
When the second week in August came with no " word from the alleged realty agent, Corsi notified the police. 
.. 


Dollars and Sense • DECEMBER 1989 
College Journalist of the Year Award 
Sponsored by American Express 
Presented by College Media Advisers/Associated Collegiate Press 

JOURNALIST OF THE YEAR 
AWARD-$5,000 

I 
i 
~ 
HONORABLE MENTIONS 
Matt Bai, Thfts U., The Observer; Lori Grange, U. of Southern California, 
Daily Trojan; Kim Renee Meadows, Emerson College, Berkeley Beacon; Michelle L. Minai, Texas Christian U., TCU Daily Skiff; Michele Paulette Quinn, U. of Pittsburgh, The Pitt News; Sylvia Peterson, Golden West Junior College, The Western Sun; Gayle D. Ray, Georgia State U., Signal; Patrick B. Whalen, U. of California, Santa Barbara, Daily Nexus 





DECEMBER 1989 • Dollars and Sense U. THE NATIONAL COLLEGE NEWSPAPER 17 
'Spare Time Cash' offers tips to students starting businesses 
Mont., $15 postpaid) is a step-by-step
By Paul Cornell II 
• The Daily of the U. of Washington 
manual walking potential 
entrepreneurs through every possible 
problem. It serves as a useful guide by 
Students who want to start their 
U. of Washington 
showing different approaches college own businesses are often confused 
students have taken and how success­about where to begin or unaware of 
ful they have been. the laws regarding new businesses. 
Market plan development, product "Spare Time Cash: Every Student's 
research, licensing, taxes and Guide to Making Money on the Side" 
accounting, and advertising strate­helps students begin their 
gies make up the contents ofthis book. entrepreneurial adventures. The 
Advertisingcanbe as cheap as writing book, published by Mick Sullivan 
press releases or as involved as a full­(Sullivan and Associates, Kalispell, 
fledged ad campaign. 
A FREE PHONE CALL COULD HELP PUT YOU IN A NEW GM CAR OR LIGHT-DUTY TRUCK THE EASY WAY 
Science 
Continued from page 14 
lots of money without going through all the math, calculus and science courses," Mulinazzi said. 
Hill agrees, "Salaries in the sciences have not kept up with medicine, law and business," he said. 
One of the hardest hit fields at U. of Kansas has been geology. Lee Gerhard, director of the Kansas Geological Survey, said the shortage of geologists could reach a critical point within the next decade and create an ideal oppor­tunity for students to enter that area of science. 
"Now's the time to be going into these fields," Gerhard said. "There's just not going to be anyone there." 
Tony Walton, chairman ofthe geology department at KU, said enrollment in geology has plummeted. 
"Our enrollment is down 80 percent from 1982," he said. 
Walton blames the low enrollment in geology on the bust in the oil industry, a major employer of geologists. 
But, he said, the oil industry runs in cycles, and today's bust could be tomor­
"I don't see a problem in for­eign students getting degrees. But, we're simply not going to have all the folks we need to develop new products and processes." 
-Christopher Hill, Congressional Research Service 
row's boom. 
"We're starting to get some perceptive people who realize there will be no one to work these jobs," Walton said. 
"There will be considerably more demand for geologists in the next four years." 
Hill disagrees, "You'd have to be crazy to tell your son or daughter to go into geology at this time." 
"You might as well start paying all their bills right now," he added. 
Hill believes a nationwide preoccupa­tion with excellence has contributed to a decline in good workers needed in U.S. industry. He wants schools to work harder to reach all of the students, rather than focusing on the exceptional few. 
"It seems to me we would be better off with 75 reasonably competent students that graduate, rather than one excep­tional student," Hill said. 
"Focusing on the excellent won't pro­duce excellence," he said. 
THEGMAC COLLEGE GRADUATE FINANCE PLAN...GET $400 AND MAKE NO PAYMENTS FOR 90 DAYS.* 
Calll-800-237-3264, and you'll find out how GMAC can make your after­college math a lot simpler. 
With GMAC's College Graduate Finance Plan, you'll receive: 
~ $400 to apply to your down payment when you buy a new GM car or light-duty truck. 
~ OR, $400 to apply to your first lease payment. 
~PLUS, when you buy you may be able to defer your first payment for 90 days ... giving you time to get your \..areer up and running before you start making payments. Finance charges accrue from date ofpurchase. 
Another important fact: Your $400 discount is in addition to any rebate or special financing rate available when you buy your new GM vehicle. 
CHEVROLET • PONTIAC • OLDSMOBILE • BUICK • CADILLAC • GMC TRUCK 

Stanford 
Continued from page 14 
in school and now speaks it fluently. She considers herfamily lucky to have found the shelter. Ifnot, they may have ended up living m a car. 
"It didn't get to that point," she said. "It would have if we hadn't found the shelter. The shelter was the best place I ever lived. Roomwise, it was the biggest." 
For most of her life, she added, her family moved often so that her parents, migrant farm workers, could follow the crops. Her stepfather is currently a jan­itor at the shelter. 
Although the family did not have a permanent home, Vasquez was always 
GUARANTEED FINANCING. 
That's right. Your financing is guaranteed as long as you qualify for the plan. You can find out all the details about qualifying in your GMAC College Graduate Finance Plan information pack. 
CALL 1-800-237-3264 RIGHT NOW FOR FREE INFORMATION. 
Calll-800-237-3264 now-or send in the coupon-to receive your free GMAC College Graduate Finance Plan information pack. Theres no obligation and you could receive a $400 discount on your new GM vehicle. Do it today! 
GMAC is an Equal Credit Opportunity Company. 
*This deferral ofpayment option is not available with leasing or other GMAC programs or in Michigan and Pennsylvania. or on vehicles with a cash-selling price ofless than $10,000 in New Jersey. 
©1989 GMAC. All Rights Reserved. 
able to stay in school, and she said that is why she has been able to attend Stanford. 
She added that she always got good grades and always wanted to go to col­lege, but never thought it would be ..,. Stanford. 
"I applied just to see if I would get in. I was really overwhelmed," she said, adding that she also applied to five other schools, including U. of California, Berkeley and University of California, Los Angeles and was admitted to all of them. 
Although her financial situation is drastically different from many stu­dents, Vasquez doesn't thinkitseparates her from them. 
"So far I've really fit in. I don't think I'm the only student from a background ~ like mine," she said. 



,----------, 
I D Yes! Please send my free GMAC I College Graduate Finance Plan 1 information pack. (Print clearly.) 
I
I I  Name Mailing Address City State College Name  Apt. ZIP  
Mail to:  

GMAC College Graduate Finance Plan General Motors Building, Annex 240 Detroit, Michigan 48202 
Or calll-800-237-3264 now to request your free GMAC College Graduate Finance Plan information. 

GMAC 
OFFICIAL SPONSOR OF L-AMERICA'~ REAMS~-_j 

18 U. THE NATIONAL COLLEGE NEWSPAPER Student Body • DECEMBER 1989 

Ill 
By Thorn Borland 
• 
The North Texas Daily 

U. 
of North Texas 


The media have made the subject of blacks in sports too sensitive, cluttering the issue with double standards and hypocrisy. The two­faced terminations of AI Campanis and Jimmy "The Greek" Snyder have intimidated white journalists and public figures who theorize on the topic of blacks in sports. 
And while some "public interest" groups and the media lash out against whites for indiscreet remarks, those same moralists ignore blacks when they make sim­ilar and even flagrantly racist com­ments. 
When long-time Dodgers employ­ee Campanis appeared as a guest for an interview on ABC's "Nightline," he attempted to answer some questions about the lack of blacks in baseball manage­ment. Campanis stumbled around the subject and then said it is pos­sible that blacks might lack certain skills required of baseball man­agers. 
Shortly after the interview, Campanis was forced to resign. Although Campanis was the one who suggested the theory on national television, he was only repeating the racist beliefs held for decades by baseball organizations. He wasn't thrown out, many have said, for holding those beliefs but rather for expressing them in pub­lic. 
In the same way, CBS manage­ment fired oddsmaker Jimmy The Greek to save its public image. In an impromptu interview at a restaurant, Snyder said if blacks "take over coaching jobs like every­body wants them to, there's not going to be anything left for white people." 
Snyder suggested that black ath­letes dominate white athletes in some sports partly because blacks have better-developed thighs that allow them to jump higher and run 
See RACISM, Page 19 
FITNESS 
Keeping fit 
It's easier for students to stay fit and eat right than they think. 
Page19 
Athletes' grad rates could go public 
By Angela Bagley-Foote 
• 
The Daily Utah Chronicle 

U. 
of Utah and Staci Cox 

• 
The Daily Tar Heel 

U. 
of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 


University officials nationwide expressed mixed reactions to a congres­sional bill that would force universities to make graduation rates of student-ath­letes public, and a study of those gradu­ation rates show they are worse than originally thought. 
John Blanchard, U. of North Carolina athletic association academic counselor, thinks the bill is a positive move. "It's important to high school students inter­ested in participating in college athletics to know what the track records for grad­uation are." 
But others think the government is overstepping its bounds. "I believe in graduation, but I don't believe the U. needs to be told what to do by federal goops in Washington," U. of Utah Swimming Coach Don Reddish said. 
The General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress, conduct-
Law student negotiates NFL contract 
By Josh Dill 
• The Chronicle Duke U. 
Cincinnati Bengals All-Pro fullback Ickey Woods sweeps right in the first half of a preseason Monday Night Football Game. Out of nowhere Robert Massey, a rookie cornerback for the New Orleans Saints, flies in and knocks the powerful Woods backward for a two-yard loss. 
In an apartment in Durham, N.C., a Duke U.law student smacks a clenched fist into an open hand, mimicking the impact of the play he'd just seen on TV. "Way to go Robert," he shouts. 
Drew Rosenhaus is one of Massey's biggest fans. He is also Massey's agent. 
The 22-year-old is the youngest agent ever to represent a National Football League player and is the only law stu­dent practicing a profession that is gen­erally reserved for lawyers and experi­enced contract negotiators. 
"I'm satisfied to have accomplished what I've done," Rosenhaus said. "But I'm taking this as a learning experience. I've completed the first step, like a kid learning to crawl. 
"Now I want to walk, run and eventu­ally run the marathon." 
Rosenhaus, aU. of Miami graduate, enrolled at Duke Law in 1988 with the intention of becoming a sports agent. During his second year, Rosenhaus thought about jump-starting his career a year early. 
"I was reading an NFL draft book and I read about Robert Massey from North Carolina Central which is literally five minutes away from my apartment. And 
SPORTS 
From boxer to trainer An Arizona State U. student learns he can stay in boxing without stepping in the ring as a fighter. 
Page19 
GRADUATION RATES Of OIV.I BASKETBALL PROGRAMS 1982-87 
Sports vs. Education 
Asampling of 97 Division I basketball programs shows that the graduation rate of basketball players is less than that of the overall student body, with 68 (70%) of those programs having agraduation rate of 0-40%. 
BASKETBALL PROGRAMS 
.>fi 61·100%61·60% 
Grad rate
Grad rate SOURCE: General Accounting Office, U.S. Congress, 1969 
41·60% 
Grad rate 
ed a preliminary survey to determine the economic plausibility of the bill and determine graduation rates of Division I basketball and football programs. 
"The study showed that 35 basketball programs in the country have gradua­tion rates below 20 percent, and that's not good enough," said Tommy Brennan, a spokesman for Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., one ofthe bill's sponsors. 
The survey compared graduation 
I said to myself, 'Drew, what have you got to lose?"' 
Massey initially told Rosenhaus he was crazy and Massey's friends laughed atthe law student when he made the pro­posal. 
Duke Law student Drew Rosenhaus 
"He was so young I didn't take him seri­ously," Massey said. "He looked as young as me and I figured I needed an older man with more experience. But I kept seeing him around. We became friends and I decided to give him a chance." 

Massey listened to Rosenhaus, and that was all Rosenhaus felt he needed. "I expressed to Robert that I thought I could overcome my inexperience by working harder than the next guy, by being creative and aggressive," Rosenhaus said. 
Massey ended up the 46th overall pick in the draft, the Saints' second-round selection. But the duo was not satisfied 
GENERAL STUDENT BODY 
41-60% 

rates of 97 men's basketball programs and 103 football programs to that of the entire student body for each school over a five-year period. The graduation rates are based on the number of students who graduate in five years. Men's basketball problems had the worst showing with 30 of the 97 schools with a graduation rate of 5 percent or less. 
See BILL, Page 23 
with being 46th. Rosenhaus felt that had Massey not been from a Division II school, he would have been a first­rounder. Rosenhaus felt he needed to resort to unconventional means to secure a fair contract. 
To complicate matters, Rosenhaus negotiated with 62-year-old Saints' General Manager Jim Finks, a con­tender for NFL commissioner and a per­son Rosenhaus considers "the figure­head of the NFL establishment." 
Rosenhaus ventured into uncharted territory when he publicized his player's cause by bringing television cameras into the negotiating sessions with Finks. "I learned in my labor law class that the only tools you have as labor against man­agement is either to strike or to use pub­licity to your advantage," Rosenhaus explained. 
Rosenhaus had Massey work out in rookie camp for six weeks without a con­tract as a way of proving his market value. 
Eventually Massey signed a two-year, $575,000 contract. The dollar figure is comparable to what high second­rounders received but the length of the contract is what makes it unique. Only one other second-round pick in the last 15 years has signed such a short-term contract. 
"What we have going for us is that Robert is a starter today," Rosenhaus said." And it instantly elevates his worth because now he only has to wait until the end of next season to renegotiate. 
"And he's going to make so much more money than what some ofthe first-round picks are getting." 
HEALTH 
Java 
Many students tum to cof­fee to help them stay awake during finals study sessions. 
Page19 
DECEMBER 1989 • Student Body U. THE NATIONAL COLLEGE NEWSPAPER 19 
Eating healthy, exercise easier than students realize. 
By Cheryl Allen 
• 
The Daily Tar Heel 

U. 
of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 


It's much easier than students think to eat right and exercise regularly, accord­ing to U. of North Carolina health experts. 
The first step is to make exercise and eating healthy a priority, UNC Wellness Research Coordinator Susan Chappell said. "Ifyou have the attitude that mak­ing healthy choices is going to make you physically and psychologically healthier, then you are more likely to do that. Whether you make it hard for yourself or not is all in your attitude." 
UNC Employee Wellness Program Coordinator Toni Branner agreed. "It's usually a matter of motivation rather than having enough time," she said. 
Diet But most experts agree that for most students eating nutritionally is difficult. 

Sociology major trains professional fighters 

By Mike Austin 
• State Press Arizona State U. 
Arizona State U. student and former boxer Rob Sale, who was born with glau­coma and told by doctors never to box, has returned to the ring-as a trainer. 
"I'm really excited with the concept of being able to mold fighters, to take them from scratch and make them want to be the best," Sale said. 
The 22-year-old sociology major, who retired from professional boxing in May after 14 years in the sport, began work­ing as head trainer at a Tempe boxing gym in September. 
"I approached Rob because I respect his boxing knowledge and talent as a fighter," said Scott Maling, a boxing manager and co-owner of the gym. "I know a lot of people older than Rob who don't know the business as well." 
Sale currently manages one estab­lished professional, light-heavyweight Steve Damon, and two others who recently made their professional debuts. Other professionals also have shown interest in the gym. 
"We're in the process of negotiating 
Racism 
Continued from page 1 8 
faster. He also said it all started with selective breeding during the days of slavery. 
After a flood of complaints about The Greek's remarks, he was fired. Once again, Snyderis not the architect of these theories. Those same white men who control CBS and fired Snyder are mem­bers of elitist white clubs such as The Knickerbocker Club and The University Club. Neither of these clubs had even a single black member at the time of the firing. 
A careful analysis of Snyder's remarks shows that although they were clearly insensitive, there is some truth in what he said. His claims that some blacks jump higher and run faster than some whites is supported by the fact that National Basketball Association teams "It's hard to eat right while living in a dorm and being on campus all day," Branner said. 
According to Ellen Molotsky, intramu­ral aerobics coordinator, eating healthy begins with paying attention to food intake. "Be aware of foods that you want to gradually eliminate," she said. Foods high in saturatedfats should be replaced with carbohydrates for energy to help sustain a person through the day. 
Quantity, notjustquality, is a factor in 
JAMIE SCOTI LYTLE, STATE PRESS, ARIZONA STATE U. 
Rob Sale teaches afighter how to throw a 
correct punch. 
with the World Heavyweight Kickboxing Champion Dennis Alexio," Sale said. "Alexio would be our No. 1 man." 
Sale, a New Jersey native, began box­ing when he was 8 years old. At 18, he was favored to win the New Jersey Golden Gloves welterweight title. Although he knew he was risking blind-
are 80 percent black, and blacks domi­nate track and field in this country. 
Bill Russell, a black basketball coach and former sportscaster, has commented more than once on black dominance in basketball. Russell even proposed hav­ingmore white players to increase atten­dance. Can you imagine a white coach today getting by with such a suggestion? 
While Snyder's remark, "There won't be anything left for whites," is an exag­geration; ifblacks dominated the execu­tive as well as the athletic side of sports, they would indeed control virtually all of sports. Snyder didn't indicate whether this was a good thing or not; he simply made an honest observation. 
Firingthese two men did not eliminate racism within the Dodger and CBS orga­nizations. Their dismissals only provid­ed the media and the public with a false sense of justice. 
Although their comments were unquestionably insensitive, they were ness and even the loss ofhis eye, he con­tinued to fight. 
In November 1985, after his third eye surgery, Sale's eye began to heal too quickly. Over the next four months, six days a week, an anti-healing agent was injected into Sale's eye to slow the heal­ing process. "I've had my nose broken, my collarbone broken and nothing has come close to the level of pain I had with those treatments," he said. 
Although doctors told Sale he would never fight again, he was determined to return to the ring. In January 1986, Sale fought in the Arizona Golden Gloves competition as an amateur. 
Sale went pro and after three profes­sional bouts, he was undefeated with one knockout. In May 1989, Sale went to Maling for financial support for a come­back,butMaling convinced him to retire. 
"The bottom line was my health was at risk and I was in fear of walking around blind for the rest of my life," Sale said. 
The transition from boxer to trainer has come easy, despite initial fears. "I'm 99 percent right now, but there's still 1 percent of me that shoots punches into the air when no one's around." 
still very mild in comparison with Jesse Jackson's hateful remarks about New York City being "Hymietown." Or the Philadelphia disc jockey, George Woods, who complained about Korean business­men in black neighborhoods: ''They don't look like we do; they don't live like us; and they don't act like us." Woods is still employed and Jackson is still considered a political leader. 
According to Walter Williams, a black economist at George Mason U., these double standards exist because the media and the public have lower expec­tations for blacks. Williams also says that tolerating these racist and bigoted remarks by blacks profanely violates the civil rights movement. 
Racism is not a black and white issue. And superficial remedies, like firing 70­plus-year-old men for misspeaking on television, will only serve to cover up the real problems while the wounds of true hatred continue to fester. 
maintaining good eating habits, Chappell said. "No food is unhealthy if you eat it in moderation. But when you have a diet based on thatfood, itbecomes unhealthy." 
See DIET, Page 22 
Coffee keeps students alert during finals 
By Ralph Jennings 
• 
The Daily Californian 

U. 
of California, Berkeley 


If you're like a lot of people, you .. quaff a magic elixir called coffee to get you through the frenzied moments oflast-minute studying. 
But, although medical experts disagree, people who drink coffee or consume caffeine in any form maybe risking both immediate and long-term side effects. 
People all over the U. of California, Berkeley, drink coffee and, while some just enjoy the taste, most drink it to keep awake and stay alert. Some UC Berkeley students use coffee and other caf­feine products to stay awake for up to 36 hours in order to study for finals. 
"I take coffee partly for the caf­feine and partly as a distraction for a break," saidUC Berkeley student Lenore Lustig. Student Lawrence Waiters said he drinks cappuccino "basically to stay awake at night." 
Berkeley abounds with coffee shops to serve people studying for finals and tempt those who are try­ing to break the caffeine habit. Sandy Boyd, who owns four Berkeley coffee shops, said any one of his operations might serve cus­tomers more than 300 pounds of coffee a day. "There's probably 7,000 cups that we serve com­bined." 
UC Berkeley student Mike Rice, a self-described "hyper-sensitive male,"drinksanaverageoftwocups of coffee each day. 
"There was a time when I drank two giant cappuccinos and a pot of coffee a day, but that got a bit out of hand," he said. 
See COFFEE, Page 23 

20 U. THE NATIONAL COLLEGE NEWSPAPER Classified Ads • DECEMBER 1989 
For more mforma!IOn on how you can reach over 3 mill1on college students call Jenn1fer at
.C L A S S I F I E D S 
(21 31 450-2921 
EDUCATION 
COLLEGE MONEY Private scholarships. You will receive finan­cial aid or your money back! Guaranteed' Federally approved program. Scholarship Consultants, 7401 N. Louisburg, Raleigh, NC 27604 (919) 876-7891 
fOOLLEGE SCHOLARSHIP ASSIS­TANCE. 5-25 Undergraduate Financial aid sources guaranteed' INEXPENSIVE FEE! (609) 983-6229. 
RADIETHESIA. Unbelievable revolu­tionary system of Psychic Inquiry. $2.00 Box 208, Delray, FL 33447 
RESEARCH, EDITING 19,278 Academic topics\ 306-page catalog-rush $2.001 Research, 11322 Idaho #206JS, Los Angeles, CA 90025. TOLL-FREE HOT­LINE: (BOO) 351-0222. (California: (213) 477-8226.) 
OPPORTUNITIES 
EARN COMMISSIONS AND FREE 
TRAVEL. CAMPUS REPRESENTA· 
TIVES NEEDED FOR WINTER SKI AND 
SPRING BEACH TRIPS. PHONE 'INTER·CAMPUS PROGRAMS TOLL­FREE 1·800-327·6013 
EARNINGS UNLIMITED! MAIL OUR BURGLAR alarm advertisements from home! RBM Merchandising, Box 59314-U, Chicago, IL 60659 
VENDING MACHINES. No selling. Routes earn amaz1ng profits. 32-page Catalogue FREE. Parkway Corporation. 1930 U Greenspring Drive. Timonium, MD 21093 
NANNIES Choose from pre-screened families in seas1de New England. Top salaries, benefits, room, board, and airfare. Yearly positions only.Care for 
., Kids, P.O. Box 27, Rowayton, CT 06853 (203)-852-8111 
PROFITABLE HOME BUSINESS. Free details! Send SASE: J. Savage, 12040 Sheldon St. #29B, Sun Valley, CA 91352. 
MODELS M!F -$5()0-$2500. Immediate opemngs for attractive, taiVpetite females and tall males for: print, film, music videos, fashion shows, trade shows,TV, swimwear and lingerie. Mostly Models, 164 Madison Ave, NY. NY 10016 (212) 213-0116. Work at Home Many jobs available, Great money guaranteed APPLY TODAY\ (408) 395-1996 Ext. 12. 
BOOMERANGS...NCREDIBLE RETURNS! UNIQUE EXCITTNG SPORT! World's Best Selection. High Tech 'Rangs. Intercollegiate Contest.FREE catalogue... BoomerangMan, 1800-BN 3rd. Morroe, LA. 71201-4222. 
$97,500 YEARLY tmrl" WI your CClf1'4XJ!er? 
Yes! (Free) Report: Simpson, 771-U Battle 
Groord, Washrgtorl 00604-0771. 
EARN $500 WEEKLYI..OO werg-llfoss nmrg pugram! 'Wr:J'KHomer-Mi:tNes\f'harnla:;aJs -#1 00. 3400-111111. COOI;J:l, IL 60055 
CATALOGS
ii<' ____EE!l 
I ·. . 
I
I 
DO IT FOR LOVE ... of an1mals. Beauty and homecare products NOT tested' on animals. NO animal ingredi· ents. Catalog $1. HUMANE STREET U SA. 467 Saratoga Ave.. Suite 300­
U. San Jose. CA 95129 
-~~~M-~n••• catalog haa booka,  I  
cour.., vlt.mkla, ...lghlau~ plertW~ ..,hNithproductli,elec- I  
b'onlca, vldeoa,  equipment. ¥Might., aa.rold al-..nadvee,  I  
poaWa,  .,dlo  ca•  I  
and moral  For  men  &  
I  
Universal Bodybuilding  I  
32458 Dequmdre, Dept AA, W•r'M'I, Ml -'8092  I  

or~:::_(:J13) ':.._~ 
AL WARMING?Greenhouse gases, the waste gases of acentury of industrial activ· ity, are building up in our atmosphere. Find out how the greenhouse effect works and what the Sierra Club is doing to combat it. Wnte for a free literature list: Sierra Club Public Affairs, Dept. J200, 730 Polk Street, San Francisco, CA 94109 
NEED MONEY FOR COLLEGE/TECH 
SCHOOL? 
BEEN TOLD YOU CAN'T 
GET GRANTS? You can, regardless of family income. Easy step by step guide shows how you can get up to $6,000 PER YEAR in grant money. (full10 day money back guarantee) Send $19.95 + $3.00 S&H to: Midwest Information Services. 1511 N. West Street. Suite 1 . Dept. A. Wichita, KS 67203 
SCHOLARSHIPS. GRANTS LOANS. GUARANTEED FINANCIAL AID. FREE BROCHURE. CALL (918) 33MONEY. 
WANT TO GET MORE OUT OF 
COLLEGE? Find out how you can get more responses from the college market. Call Jennifer for details about U. Classifieds today (213) 450-2921. 
BOSTON NANNIES HAVE MORE FUN 
• 
Top Salaries/Benefits/Airfare 

• 
Over 1,000 Nannies Already Placed 


o 
Extensive Nanny Support Network/Activities 

o 
Personally screened families 


• One-Year Commrtment necessary 
(}U)CAII: R..NBINTSERVCE, t£ 149 Buckminster Rd., Brookline, MA 02146 1-800-338-1836 Our nannies have appeared as guests on local TV programs. 
CHILDCAREINANNIES NEEDED Join our "Nanny Network" of over BOO in Northeast. Full-year positions only. Salaries: $150-$300 week, room, board, airfare & benefits. BEST CHOICES of families &locations. 
HELPING HANDS, INC. 1-8()0-544-NANI Established 1984. Featured on NBC's TODAY SHOW. 
MAKE MONEY WRITING GREETING CARDS. Serdtwo25e~: Greetirgs! P.O. Box 521-UW, CleYefard, 01-144107 
FOREIGN STUDENT'S Guide to Obtaining ~ard GreenCardintheU.S. Serd 50¢ starTlJ for atltional information. Sun Belt Publishing POB 23042-U, Jacksonville, FL 32241 
PART-TIME $8-$1Mlr. HIGH COMMISSION F!eWng Killeroolege T-shirtdesigns. U-RTHE BOSS. $5K per sernes\ef potentiaL EASY. Gall Gary orWalter, [)1( Designs (415) 474-6595 
$500 WEEKLY mailing ads. Ad mailers Associates. Box51063-U. Durham, NC27717 
Reach milrKJnS of OOiege s\l.den1s lt1r!Jl.9h U. Classffieds. Gall (213) 450-2921 today. 

SIERRA CLUB MAIL-ORDER SERVICE GUIDE AND CATALOG Send tor your tree Sierra Club Mail-Order Service Guide and Catalog featuring more than 200 items! Write to: Sierra Club Store, 730 Polk Street, San Francisco, CA 94109 
TRAVEL 
FLY FREE! Transporting Documents To Destinations Worldwide! $10.00: COURI­ERGUIDE: 2301 Pennland, (NC) Sacramento, CA 95825 
ADVENTURE 
TRIPS Trans-Africa, Trans-South America, Trans Asia. 5-26 weeks overland. Plus 2 weeks Nepal $550, Kenya $559. India, Egypt, Turkey, Peru and more low cost, quality treks/safaris. Free brochure. Student & teacher discounts. Low air­fares. Force 10 Expeditions, P.O. Box 547-U, New Canaan, CT 06840. Toll Free 1-800-888-9400 or (203) 966-3588. 
GREAT EXPEDITIONS MAGAZINE ­Trekking, cu~ural discovery, budget travel in Asia, Africa, Latin America. For sample, write or call: PO Box 8000-411, Sumas, WA 98295; (604) 852-6170. 
SKI 
-COLORADO 
Breckenridge Copper Mountain Keystone/A-Basin 
DISCOUNT 
Lift Tickets • Lodging Ski Rentals 1-800-888-3688 
BAHAMAS SAILING ADVENTURES 
Skippered bareboat, full-participation group charters. 15 yrs. experience. We'll teach you everything you want to learn about sailing, diving, naviga­tion, even provisioning and cooking. From $325/wk or $425/2wk. Capt Steven A. Salem, 3313 Garnet Rd.. Miramar, FL 33025. (305) 371-7936. 
LOW COST STUDENT/FACULTY AIRFARE TO EUROPE/ASIA 
For your FREE student flight catalog write: Int. Student Exchange Flights, 5010 East Shea Blvd. Suite A-104, Scottsdale, AZ. 85254 or Call (602) 951-1177. 
STUDY/WORK/LIVE OVERSEAS! Plan you own overseas adventures with Transitions Abroad, Box 344-3571, Amherst, MA 01004. $15 subscription includes four issues, Educational Travel Directory, Guide to Living Overseas. 
ADOPTION 
PREGNANT?CONSIDER ADOPTION. Golden cradle offers; free housing, medi­cal, counseling, transportation. Direct placement of child. No foster care. Select and meet the adopting couple. Toll-free: 1­800-327-BABY. 
SOFTWARE 
THE MAGIC MOUNTAIN ... apsychocult adventure. Down the stone stairs to the ancient labyrinth, Merlin's touch and mul­tiple realities, wisdom and sexual power ... Specify male or female version. $24.95 each. Both $39.95 Not for children. IBM PC/compatibles, 256K, Blue Valley, 29 Shepard, Walton, NY 13856 
CALENDARS 
1990 Wall Calendar 
'Dragons oftli.e ~tfwootf 'Empire 
111!!!'!1'11 $12.50 ppd ~ ...... 1-800-322-6040 lQ2J 'Dancing 'DragQrl 'Duigns -wu 
1881 Roldbroolo Rd, Arca111 CA 1155.21 

SP.nd name address and S6 95 check or m o to 
Secre1Pasllons•P08oJIIB7D•Depl YVN•~HI.NC2751S or use your Vrsa or MasterCard Call loll tree 1-800-334·5474 
9irn-9Pft'1ETJ !!xctlliAiaska, 
NUTRITION 
NOURISHMENT FROM A HIGHER FOOD GROUP: Give yoiuself a heaping helping of The Truth. The Whole Truth, Nothing But the Truth. 468 pages, $9.95 plus$2shipping. UNIVERSAL SERVICES, 1817 S. Horne, Su~e 13, Mesa. AZ. 85204 
GIFTS 
RAYBANS-SERENGETIS SAVE 40%. Great Christmas Gifts! Over 300styles. Free Catalogue. FAST SHIP­PING. Caii1-Boo-4RAYBAN 
POSTERS 
$1 MOVIE POSTERS. Over 1,000 titles (1963-1989). Catalog $2. S. Wallach, 32 Kern Rd., Don Mills, Ontario, Canada M3B 1T1. Visa/MC (416) 444-8461. 
MISCELLANEOUS 
FREE CATALOG. Amazing Magic Tricks, 
Perplexing Puules, Hilarious Jokes and more. Over BOO items. Winkler's Wonders, Dept UNCN-1189, Oakdale, CT 06370 
NEWSLETIERS 
THE PEOPLE, Marxist biweekly. Since 1891. $1/4 months. $4/yr. The People (U), Box 50218, Palo Alto, CA 94303. 
ASSOCIATIONS 
Bertrand Russell Society. Information: U, RD 1, Box 409, Coopersburg, PA 18036. 
VIDEOS 
SPRINGSTEEN, U2, PRINCE, R.E.M., COSTELLO! SASE: RAREVIDS, Box 1456, Pacific Palisades, CA 90272. 
GREEKS 
GREEK PRIDE USA Greek sweatshirts double color letters. Russell, $21.00 or 3-lor-$55.00. Reverse weave style $34.00 or 3-for-$90.00. Call today! MC/VISA (814) 237-6577, Box 10134, State College, PA 06805. 
PERSONALS 
Boring mail? Want fun? Get REAL Mai! Free details: Collegiate Penpals, 112 E. Wood Street #14, West Lafayette, IN47906 
EYE CONTACT Replacement and spare lenses starting at $19.95 each. 1-800-255-2020. 
ASTROLOGICAL MATE FINDING. Find your (potential) twin flame. ON WINGS, P.O. Box 1978, Kihei, H\96753. 
COLLEGE -AGE FRIENDS WORLD­WIDE! 200,000 members. FREE DETAILS. International PENFRIENDS, BOX 310 (U), LINDSBORG, KANSAS 67456 
PENFRIENDS-ENGLAND-USA. Make lasting friendships. Send age, interests. Free Reply. Harmony, Box 82295 U, Phoenix ,AZ. 85071 
THE LEITER EXCHANGE for intellingent conversation. Meet minds, not bodies. Send astamped envelope for information. LEX, Box 6218-U, Albany, CA 94706 
Penpallnternational. Worldwide. 
WIN A TRIP TO THE CARRIBEAN. $50 giveaway. Send postcard for FREE info: 7127 University Station, Dept. U, Syracuse, NY 12310 
TURNING UP THE AIR CONDITIONING IS NOT THE ANSWER 
Greenhouse gases, the waste gases of acentury of industrial activity, are building up in our atmoshpere, and the global temperature is rising. What could happen? Hotter sum­mers. More severe droughts. More brutal winters. Rising Seas. Grain belts turning to desert. Find out how the green­house effect works and what the Sierra Club is doing to combat it. Write for a free literature list: Sierra Club Public Affairs, Dept. J200, 730 Polk Street, San Francisco, CA 94109. 

APPAREL 
CUSTOMIZED BOXERS 
T-SHIRTS • TIE-DYE Unkjue imprinted or tie-dyed garments. Great for fundraisers, dorms, greek events, etc. (min. order 36 pes.) 
ffi~CAmOGUE l~i1
P.O. Box 49, Dept. U Syracuse, NY 13205 ' 1(800) 825-2697 
DENIM JACKET ART COMPANY. Hand painted denim jackets. We paint anything you want. Call (201) 586-3200 or write for free brochure: Box 142. Mt. Tabor, NJ 07878 
Natural fiber batik clothing, scarves, bags, jewelry and handmade gihs that reflect an appreciation of art and our environment. Send $1 for color cata­log (refundable with order) to: Artventure, Dept. CU9, 2115 1/2 Ashby Ave .. Berkeley, CA 94705. 
GUATEMALAN GOODIES!! Presenting a holiday special from arti­sans of the world: jewelry from Thailand and India, accessories from Peru, Bali, Pakistan plus new additions to our Guatemalan line. Cotton clothing designed for comfort and expression. Vests, shirts, pants, baja jackets, fanny packs, bags and new winter "warm-up' items. Send #1 0SASE for free color brochure to :Guatemalan Goodies, P.O. Box 1241/NCP, Capitola, CA 95010 
or call (408) 479-3380,11-3 Pacific Tlme. Whotesale inquiries invrted. 
DOWN UNDER THUNDER PRODUC­TIONS presents an Australian and International T-shirt collection. Russia, China, Asia, France, Germany, Spain, Italy, Mexico, South America, Tahiti, Tangiers, Australia and many more! Fabulous, exot­ic, different, funny. creative designs on T­shirts or sweatshirtS. Money-back guaran­tee. Orders in stock shipped immediately. We GUARANTEE delivery in time for Christmas or Hanukah. Send $1.50 for cat­alog, $2 off first order.(24 hours a day). 1­800-999-6075. See also our ad on p. 23. 

ON RED. WHITE YELLOW. B1 T -SHIRTS OR SWEATSHIRTS chick or money order Ia: PRESIIJ(Nn PRAYER CLUB 
U 
PD. BOX 1436:1-A LENEXA. KS 111215 FOR INFO: j!ll3ili81l-4410 I VISA M/C 
NEW AITITUDE ... DON'T JUST 
SAY 'NO' F·CK OR DRUGS SAY IT DRUGS SUCK YOUR 
·'U'IndiXIed 
WAY!! 
GIANT BLACKLmERS 
ON WHITE SHIRT(S,M,L,XL) Serd 11.00 (ppd) (Indicate design and size) To: M.L. 1Enterprises 
P.O. Box 13308 Arlington, TX 76094­
NEW WAVE, PUNK T-SHIRTS 
Cure, Smiths, Ramones, Cult, Sid, Pistols, Bauhaus, Cramps, DK's, XTC, Jane's Addiction, Replacements, Dead Milkmen, Misfits,

" 
Murphy's Law etc. (M, L, XL) $12.95 + $1.00 S&H. Also U2, PiL, New Order, Siouxsie, Depeche Mode, Violent Femmes, 10,000 Maniacs, Living Colour, Love & Rockets, etc. (M,L,XL) $14.95 + $1.00 S&H. Also, distressed tie dyes of New Wave Bands etc. (L &XL ONLY) $15.95+$1.00S&H Catalog$1.00. Serd check or M.O. to: Wings USA, P.O. Box 2782-D, Waterbury, CT 06723. Info & COD orders: 1-800-365-WING. 
DECEMBER 1989 • Classified Ads U. THE NATIONAL COLLEGE NEWSPAPER 21" 

REGGAE 
WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR? 
U·R~ad~r $11 SPI~IAL 
Do Yourself & A Friend A Favor 
SUBSCRIBE NOW 
One Year • 9 Issues to REGGAE REPORT The #1 lnt'l Reggae Magazine Act Today and Receive FREE Reggae Wristband 
Send $10 US Chcck/MO to REGGAE REPORT 8191 NW 91 Terr. #A-1 Miami, FL 33166, (305) 887-4460 
AYail. at Pt:achcs, Rt:cord Bar & Towt:r Rt:cords 

GRATEFUL DREAD $15 
6 colors w1th 3·0 Pull Dreads 
Our Hhirts are 100% heavyweight canon lor a cool feel and a cool look. Prices are U.S. dollars and include shipping & handling charges. 
LEGEND 
GRAPHIC APPAREL 
P.O. BOX 19149 Philadelphia, PA 19143 USA 
FOR FAST DELIVERY CALL TOLL FREE 
1·800·733·7007 
-VISA & MASTERCARD 
P• 
~ AlL DESIGNS· 1989lfGEND ~1­
MUSIC 
COMPACT DISCS. Prices starting at $5.99. Send $1.00 for catalog refundable with purchase. Harris House of Music, Box 388759, Dept. U., Chicago, IL 60638. 
E. Charlston #5UU. Las Vegas, Nevada 89122 

The ORIGINAL COMPACT DIS­CLOCK combines hi-tech styling with precision quartz accuracy while adding prismatic brilliance to any decor. Send check or money orderfor$19.95 +$3.00 S&H to: DISCLOCK Inc., 7958 Pines Blvd., Ste. 294, Pembroke Pines, FL 33024. (305) 431-6789. 
GUITAR ACCESSORIES-Misty Shire Music Co., P.O. Box 2401, Dept. U, N. Canton, OH 44720. 1-800-223-8844. 
FREE! HOTIEST LP, CD, RADIO SHOW LIST Anywhere! Finest Record Store, 2400 8th Ave., Greeley, CO 80631. 1-303-352­5390. 
HELP WANTED 
OVERSEAS. STATESIDE. to $1,000 Daily. FREE List.ZINCRO,Box 13110,Las Vegas, NV 89112 
RADIOrrV JOBS! ALL OCCUPATIONS, including entry level trainee positions! Current month listings $6. ECU, Box 35190C, Houston. TX 77235. 
ACT IN TV COMMERCIALS. High pay. No experience ... all ages. Kids, teens, young adults, families, mature people, ani­mals, etc. Call now! Charm Studios; 1-800­447-1530, ext. T100. 
SELF EMPLOYMENT 
OPPORTUNITY! Eam commissions each month by posting commercial ads and direct response pesters on your campus bulletin boards. No direct selling, no fee; set your own hours. For further information, write to: Collegiate Poster Network, Inc. 407 S. Dearborn St., Chicago. IL. 60605. (312) 922-0302. (800) 669-7678 
DISTRIBUTE STUDENT CREDIT CARDS on campus. Part-time or full time. Call (800) 766-PCMA 
COMMUNITIES 
Participate in building democratic, egalitar­ian, communal society in scenic Ozark woods. 15-year-oid commune seeks visi­tors/members. Successful cottage indus­tries. Write for brochure. EAST WIND COMMUNITY.. , Box NCN89, Tecumseh, MO 65760 (417) 679-4682. 
WRITERS 
SHORT, SHORT STORIES NEEDED. SASE for guidelines, payment information Pan Adventures, 13 West Diane Dr., Keene, NH 03431 
BOOKS 
UNDERGROUND BOOKS. CONTRO­VERSIAL-Unusual! Catalog: $2, FSS, Box 232, F.O., CA 95628-0232 
OUR COSMIC ANCESTORS. Controversial 216-page illustrated book. $11. Extraterrestrial human origins. Atlantis. Pyramids. Astrology. UFOs by Maurice Chatelain, fonrer NASA scientist. Caravel, 253 Southwillow. Prescott, AZ 86303 


CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING M/F Summer &Career Opportunities (Will Train). Excellent pay plus world travel. Hawaii, Bahamas, Carribean, etc. CALL NOW: 206-736-7000 Ext. 400N (Call refundable) 
AUSTRALIA WANTS YOU! Big Pay! Transportation! New Employment Handbook, $3.00. International, Box 19107-RD, Washington, DC 20036. 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT 
FISHERIES Earn $600+/week in cannery. $8,000­$12,000+ for two months on fishing vessel. Over 8,000 openings. No experience nec­essary Male or Female. For 68-page employment booklet, send $6.95 to M&L Research, Box 84008-PX, Seattle, WA 98124-30-day, unconditional, 100% money back guarantee. 
COLORADO, UTAH, WASHINGTON, OREGON technical/skilled/professional job opportunity listing. Single/$5; 3iss/$12; 6 iss/$21. Evergreen-U, POB 208, Loveland, CO 80539-0208. 
FINANCIAL 
Obtain Visa/Mastercard! Immediate Loans-By Mail! Credit unnecessary: MCA­#1 0, 3400-111 th, Chicago, IL 60655 
JEWELRY 
CUSTOM DESIGNED . ASTROLOGICAL
JR~ 
JEWELRY. ASTROL-IT€MS'" Anew age look for 
astrology creative­ly executed in pendants based on designs that emerged through medi­
tation. Each design is an inspired blend of time-honored astrological signs and their respective symbols. Inspirational. unique and exclusively ours. Sterling silver, Vermeil, 10 & 14K gold; $37-$240 retail. New hand­made, cloisonne' (enamel) pendants, in color-$11.95 ppd. Call Astral Items (301) 982-0518 or send for free color mailers: Astrolltems, P.O. Box 157,6100 Westchester Pk. Dr. #803, College Park, MD 20740 
"22 U. THE NATIONAL COLLEGE NEWSPAPER Student Body • DECEMBER 1989 
At many schools, the problem of stu­The Future 
small percentage of students ever vol­


Special Report 
dent apathy prevents much competi­
unteer for such duty. Despite the 
tion for committee seats. Elsewhere, Although further gains are being 
importance of administrative search­
Continued from page 13 
particularly when more prestigious sought, student representation on 
es, students remain relatively unin­
posts are being filled, there is more search committees remains the rule 
terested. 
interest. 
rather than the exception.
How students are chosen 
Those that do serve, however, often 
At U. of Pennsylvania, elections 
The effectiveness of students on 
come a way feeling they've made a dif­
and nominations committee chair 
committees, certainly an important
Students are usually selected for 
ference and gained experience. 
Raffi Balian says there is some com­
prerequisite of further progress,
search committees by their student 
McCracken said the opportunity to 
petition.
governments. 
varies immensely. As Balian notes, 
learn was a primary motivation for 
Ten students recently applied to 
"Students on committees run the
Others are required to have some 
her. "I see the time commitment as 
serve on a committee seeking a new 
whole gamut. Some are quiet, some
contact with university officials 
severe, but I know I'll get a lot out of 
director of residential living, five of 
are very outspoken. I've seen commit­
it."
before their appointments are con­
whom Balian characterized as "better
firmed. McCracken, for example, had 
tees where students aren't noticed, 
Kuhlow, looking back on her chan­
than excellent candidates." 
and some where they are so effective
to meet with a member of the board of 
cellor search experience, said it was 
"I wouldn't look at the numbers of 
that the student becomes chair of the
regents after the student government 
more than worth it. "I think students 
people applying as much as the qual­
committee."
recommended her for the presidential 
should fight tooth and nail to serve on 
ity," he said. 
Part of the problem is that only a
search committee appointment. 
committees," she said. 

Diet 
Continued from page 19 
About 90 percent of Americans die pre­
maturely from diseases related to poor 
eating habits and lack of exercise, 
Branner said. But most students don't 
believe it will happen to them, she said. College students are especially diffi­cult to work with because they feel invin­cible to health-related diseases. But Branner said prevention must start at ·an early age. "You can't all of a sudden 
prevent heart disease when you're 45," 
she said. 
A healthy diet consists of a balance of 
foods from the four basic food groups ­
bread and cereal, fruit and vegetables, 
proteins (meat, fish, nuts, and legumes) 
and dairy products. 
A siginificant number of college stu­
dents skip daytime meals because ofbusy 
schedules-ahabitthatcanbedetrimen­
tal to energy levels, Molotsky said. 
"It's ironic that ifa meal is skipped, it's 
usually breakfast. That starts students 
oft" on the wrong foot," she said. 
Sleep puts the body in a fasting state, 
but for students to perform at their high­
est potential, they need to refuel their 
bodies, Chappell said. "Once you get up 
and start walking, your body needs calo­
ries to function." 
Students who complain about not hav­
ing enough time for breakfast should 
keep instant breakfast bars, fresh fruit 
or bagels in their rooms -"something 
you can just grab on your way out the 
door," she said. 
To make up for missed meals, students 
often eat late at night, which also is 
unhealthy. 
Food consumed late at night goes directly into fat storage, which is harder to burn off, whereas whatis eaten during the day is burned off immediately, Branner said. 
Exercise 
But physical fitness doesn't stop with just eating healthy. Combining physical activity and better nutrition can make a person healthier in the long run. Less than 40 percent of adults in the United States exercise or play sports regularly, Branner said. 
Regular exercise has psychological benefits as well. "It increases your ability to deal with streSs and it enhances your sense of well-being," Molotsky said. "Some people say thatthey're able to stay on task better with regular exercise." 
Many students exercise sporadically -a practice that can create problems. They feel great when they're exercising, but feel three times worse when they're not, she said. 
"It's better to stay on an even keel. That's possible by choosing activities that fit into your schedule, are enjoyable and are performed at an intensity you can handle," Molotsky said. 
Branner recommends that exercise include 20 to 30 minutes of aerobic activity three times a week, as well as strength and flexibility training. 
Ifyouhave anorexia orbulimia, you've gotourrespect 
We know that sounds strange. But over and over again, we hear about other pro­grams that ~reat individuals with anorexia and bulimia, as though they were children. Forcing them to eat. Taking away personal possessions. Denying them freedom. 
At The Renfrew Center, we respect the people who stay programs in the country. Where people actively participate everyday in their treatment. Planning menus. Setting goals. And working with an expert_ medical and psychological staff to help gain back their self-respect. 
The Renfrew Center, the first residential treatment facili­ty exclusively for women with 
here. A_nd that respect is ~~;:}._ _ __ an?rexia and bulimia,
-the basis for one of the .. JJ.L · --. IS located on 27 
most innovative, progressive and  ': THE  [:.:~: ~ -~  . , , secluded acres and ':__1 ~ccepts most ~~jor  
comprehensive  RENFREW  msurance pohoes.  
eating disorder  JCAHO approved.  

CENTER 
Student directs 300 volunteers in effort to save stray animals 
By Lai Kwan 
• 
The Oklahoma Daily 

U. 
of Oklahoma 


Over 200 cats and dogs have a U. of Oklahoma student to thank for saving their lives. 
Junior Jamie Harrington directs over 300 volunteers at Second Chance, a non­profit organization started by a group of citizens concerned about conditions at the local animal shelter. The group aims to save the lives of lost and abandoned animals and, Harrington said, encour­age responsible pet ownership. 
Harrington said summer is an espe-· cially bad time for animals in Norman because students get out of college and some abandon theirpets. "They leave the 
U. The National College Newspaper 
seeks qualified applicants for the 1990-91 sigrrificant student issues. 
Editorial Fellowship _ Applications are Program scheduled a1990-91 available from edi­
for July 1990 to mid-[J Editorial tors or advisers of 
March H~n. . Fello"'\N'"shi.ps ACNmembernews-
The editonal fel-THE NATIONAL COLLEGE NEWSPAPER papers or George F. lows select news, fea-Taylor, editorial tures,opinion,photos,comicsandcartoons director, U. The National College from member newspapers. They edit, Newspaper, 3110 Main St., Santa write headlines and layout pages; and Monica, Calif., 90405 (213) 450-2921. 

FLAGS lt BANNERS 
Get Mom off your beck, clean up your IICtl Dramatically improve the appearance of your room with colorful, stylish flags & banners. Great for decorating ceilings and walls · also makes a great gift. All flags & banners are made of 100% nylon and come in 
various sizes.  
CAT. II  
1  
2  
3  
4  
5  
STATE FLAGS  ARMED FORCES FLAGS  
CAT. II  FLAG  2x3  3x5  4x6  CAT. II  FLAG  2x3  3x5  
8  California  •20  '37  '48  1 1  Air Force  •20  '40  
7  Maryland  17  32  40  12  Army  20  40  
8  New Mexico 15  27  35  1 3  Coast Guard  20  40  
9  New York  22  42  52  14  Marine Corps  20  40  
10  Texas  12  19  27  15  Navy  20  40  
16  POW/MIA  24  
FUN FLAGS  BEER FLAGS  
CAT. II  FLAG  2x3  3x5  CAT. II  FLAG  3x5  
22  Beer  '24  f32  27  Anheuser-Bush  '32  
23  Confederate  20  30  28  Budweiser  32  
24  Don't Tread on Me  20  27  29  Bud Light  32  
25  Jolly Roger  24  32  30  Mlchelob  32  
26  19th Hole  32  31  Michelob Light  32  

animals out in the country thinking they will find a home, but this is not always so." 
Harrington estimated one out of 10 may be lucky enough to find a home. The other nine battle starvation, traffic and other animals. Most die a slow death, she said. 
Harrington said Second Chance gets many depressing calls. About 13 people call each day to drop off animals, and many times the pets are either seriously injured or have acquired diseases. Both problems are costly. 
"This organization is funded by dona­tions and adoption fees, but most of the time these don't pay for all expenses, especially medical costs. So we never make our money back," she said. 
write, edit and directspecial reports about 
"ALL OTHER FLAGS & SIZES AVAILABLE UPON REQUEST. 
U.S. FLAGS 
SIZE EACH 2x3 '12.00 3x5 25.00 4x6 30.00 5x8 45.00 
6x10 90.00 
INTERNAllONAL FLAGS CAT. II FLAG 2x3 3x5 4x6 1 7 Canada •20 '25 '34 18 Ireland 13 17 23 19 Italy 13 17 23 20 Mexico 21 27 36 21 U. K 20 25 34 
ROCK TAPESTRIES ONE COLOR-45"SOUARE '9.00ea 
CAT.II TAP CAT.# TAP 32 Batman 37 MotleyCrue 33 BonJovi 38 NewKids 34 Guns & Roses 39 0u.y 35 led Zepplln 40 Pink Floyd 36 Metallies 41 Polson 
To place an order, mail check or money order to: ALLEGIANCE FLAG & BANNER 348 Wheeler Road, P.O. Box 266, Hauppauge, NY 11788 
N.Y.S. Resld.: (516) 234-7060 Out of State: (800) 24HI331 
NAME_____________________________________________________ ADDRESS ___________________________________________________ CITY_______________________________ STATE_________ ZIP___ 
DAYTIME TELEPHONE NO. 
CATALOG NUMBER QUANTITY SIZE PRICE EACH TOTAL PRICE 
SHIPPING & HANOUNG 
2 
75 
N.Y. RESIDENTS MUST ADD SAI.£5 TAX 
TOTAL AMOUNT 

DECEMBER 1989 • Student Body U. THE NATIONAL COLLEGE NEWSPAPER 23 



Stroke 
Continued from page 1 
The next morning in the hospital, Danemann had no movement in his left hand, arm or leg, but he retained feeling in the skin. "It was like having a dead person on my left side," he says. 
After several weeks in different hospi­tals, he returned to live at his parents' house. "It was very difficult for them because I was so touchy about things. Some things I wanted to do by myself and some things I needed help with. 
"One of the problems with the stroke was that I couldn't control my emotions. I wouldn't cry, I would bawl." 
Danemann began outpatient rehabil­itation at another hospital, and with the 

Bill 
Continued from page 18 
Both the House and Senate are con­sidering bills that would require all col­lege and universities thatreceive federal funding to report graduation rates to the NCAA, which would send them to the Department of Education as public records. Schools that fail to comply would lose federal funds. 
Schools are already required to report graduations rates to the NCAA, but not to the general public. 
A proposal similar to the congressional bills will be introduced at the NCAA con­vention in January. 
U. of Utah Football Coach Jim Fassel said he would not oppose the use of a muscle stimulator was able to learn to reroute messages that were sent to the right side of his body but not his left side. In doing so, he began to regain the use of some of his muscles. 
But with the improvement came the realization that many ofhis friends from high school were uncomfortable being around him because of his disability. "I got very lonely," he said. 
Another lowpoint was being fired from a job with a local video store for "impre­cise reports" -reports that were diffi­cult to readbecause ofhis poor handwrit­ing. Danemann had been left-handed before the stroke and had to learn to write with his right hand. 
"That really woke me up to realize I wasn't going to be able to go out and work for a living and do well because of my dis-
congressional bill if the guidelines were modified. 
He said every student who signs with a team must be entered in graduation rates, but if a student transfers, the rates reflect the student as never grad­uating. 
Still, many coaches and athletic offi­cials, including U. of Oklahoma Volleyball Coach Miles Pabst, see the benefits of Congress enacting such a bill. "If you force the universities to graduate them, everybody wins," Pabst said. 
• Erik Eek, The Oklahoma Daily, U. of Oklahoma; Barbara Steuart, The Daily Californian, U. of California, Berkeley; and David 0. Williams, The Metropolitan, Metropolitan State College contributed to this report. 
ability," he says. "My father said I should go to school because ifyou get an educa­tion and you have a degree in your hot little hand, nobody can take that away from you." 
Danemann enrolled atUNM last sum­mer and once again has his own apart­ment. He walks with a slight limp and, while he may never be able to run again, is taking a swimming class that has rekindled his interest in exercise. 
Danemanncontinues to improve phys­ically, but, he says, the biggest change has been in his outlook on life. "The best is that I'm a much better person," he says. 
"It's a rough way to do things," he admits. But he says, "I've always said that if everyone could suffer a stroke, we'd all be better people." 

Coffee 
Continued from page 19 
Rice said the caffeine gets himthrough the day, but he also believes it may be endangering his health. "I think exces­sive use of coffee will clot your arteries, which leads to deterioration of your heart, which leads to death," he said. 
But some medical experts have said they do not believe coffee consumption causes any verifiable health problems, least of all death. 
According to Health Service Nutritionist Trish Ratto, long-term effects of caffeine intake may lead to can­cer or high levels of cholesterol, but she said, thus far, no research has confirmed this. 

Condoms 
Continued from page 1 
by the simultaneous use of condoms and vaginal spermicides. "There is no such thing as truly safe sex," he said. 
Buck said the AIDS virus probably had passed through tiny holes in the tested condoms. 
Such holes could be small enough to prevent the passage of sperm, while admitting the smaller AIDS virus and other viruses, he said. 
"I would buy another brand," Buck said. 
"Anything that's manmade fails. Just. accept the fact that condoms aren't per­fect," he said. 
Ratto also emphasized that drinking excessive amounts of coffee can often have the opposite effect of what may be desired. "People are drinking more and more to stay awake, and it's counterpro­ductive," she said, adding exhaustion often sets in after a caffeine high wears off. 
Ratto recommended students decrease the amount of coffee they con­sume during the day so they can sleep at night and avoid going into a final on~ a caffeine low. But Ratto added caffeine affects people in different ways. 
However, Carol Koehler, spokesper­son for a local hospital, said a caffeine addict stands a greater chance of con­tractingheart disease. "If you have other heart problems and you drink coffee, it can irritate the heart," Koehler said. 




It's here • • • It's hot! 
-
Down-Under Thunder Productions Ltd. 
presents: 
The Australian Shirts Collection 
featuring 
• 
O'Flaherty's Gym, Blue Mud Bay, Brisbane 

• 
Crazy Louie's Comedy Club & Shanghai the Wonderdog, Melbourne 


Aussie Surf & Sail, Coolangatta, Queensland 
(see prints) 

Order Now! 1 (800) 999-6075 24 hrs. 

AND: 
The International T -Shirt Collection: "From Tahiti to Tangiers" 
Australia, France, Mexico, Germany, 
Spain, Holland, Russia, China and 
many more. You can now go anywhere 
in the world for as little as $12.95 with 
our fabulous designs. 
Originals from Gyms, Health Clubs, Spas, Pubs, 
• 
Surfers, Beaches, Lodges, Restaurants and Exotic Places. We guarantee that you will not find these anywhere or your money back! 
ORDERS IN STOCK SfUPPED IMMEDIATELY. WE GUARANTEE 
Blue .mu~Ba.!J 
DELIVERY IN TIME
.Bri.s6ane. Au.stralia FOR CHRISTMAS 
OR HANUKAH. 
-
Fabulous, original designs with a front emblem and a large 6-color back print on 100% first-dass cotton T-shirts, muscle shirts and sweat shirts in S, M, L and XL. Money­back guarantee good for 30 days. Shirts $12.95 (sweat shirts $19.95) + $2.00 shipping & handling (COD $2 extra). Order by calling Toll Free I (800) 999-6075 24 hrs. 

Use Visa & MC, or send check or money order to Down-Under Thunder 
Call for write for 
Productions Ltd., P.O. Box 1093, Boulder, CO 80306, too/~ off all profits will be donated to approved wildlife protection groups. catalog, $1.50 ($2.00 off first order) ALL DESIGNS AVAILABLE IN SWEATSHIRTS. 1 (800) 999-6075 24 hours. 
Name __________________________________ 
0 Check 0 Money Order 0 VISA 0 MC Address_______________________________ 
VISA MC # ----------------------­Exp. date_________________________
CitY--------------------------------­State _____________________ Zip--------­
Name on card --------------------­Signature_________________________
Tel.#--------------------------------­
Qty.  Shirt Type (T, Tank. or SS)  Size S.M. L. XL  Description (Support or S,tudent)  Price  



Shipping and handling  $ 2.00  
TOTAL  

-

million Americans choose to drink beer at least occasionally. In a crowd that big you'll probably find about every kind of person. You can, however, say some things about mostofthem . 
• 

Most beer drinkers are responsible adults, working people, family people. Most ofthem see beer as one oflife's little pleasures, a small reward after a hard day's work, something good to share with a friend. And most ofthem by far enjoy it as it was meant to be enjoyed, responsibly. 
BDER 
On the whole, a good group of people to be a part of. And ~ when you consider that beer is served in nearly two-thirds of the homes AGOOD in this country the majority of us are part of that group whether we drink beer ourselves or not. ·)ATYf"1 QL' THE So, what kind of person drinks beer? People B:t\I\..1 i_1 who enjoy it and see it as simply a good part of their
GOOD JJ FE. ..
good lives. 
Q Jt.IH9, AnhL·uscr·UU.\Ch, lm:., Sl. Louis, Mo. 







