
VOL. XXIII NO. 61 MONDAY , DECEMBER 4, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Philippine rebels suffer setbacks, vow to fight 

MANILA, Philippines (AP) -Rebel soldiers battled government troops last Monday in Manila's financial district as forces loyal to President Corazon /.quino moved against mutinous hold­outs in the fourth day of the attempted coup. 
On Sunday, more than 600 rebels sur­rendered after government units re­pulsed a fierce assault on the armed forces headquarters at Camp Aguinaldo. Government officials said the battle dealt a fatal blow to the uprising. . 
About 400 rebels also held the Mactan Air Base in Cebu, 350 miles south of Manila. Officials said they expected the Mactan rebels to surrender Monday. 
At sunrise Monday, rebel snipers hid­ing in skyscrapers in the Makati finan­cial district of Manila began firing at soldiers who approached their build­ings. 
One fireman was grazed by a bullet, and the van of a Manila radio station was hit by gunfire. 
Mutineers fired at a helicopter carry­ing Brig. Gen. Loven Abadia, comman­der of the 205th Helicopter Wing, as it flew over Makati en route to central Lu­zon. Bullets ripped through the aircraft, wounding the pilot in the shoulder, but he was able to return to the Villamor air base and land the helicopter safely, the military reported. 
The mayor of Makati, part of metropolitan Manila, appealed to the rehels to surrender. 
"This thing is over," Mayor Jejomar Binay said in a message sent to rebel leaders. "The best thing for your men is to lay down their arms." 
However,.one rebel leader, who gave his name as "Col. Galvez," told a re­porter late Sunday: "We will continue to fight until we get our political objective" -the resignation of Aquino. 
Elsewhere, Manila was returning to normal, with government and private sector employees reporting for work. 
Defense Secretary Fidel Ramos said Sunday the government had crushed the 
,. attempted coup. Aquino ruled out a cease-fire in a nationwide television broadcast and vowed: "What they started, we will finish." However, junior and middle-grade of­ficers in several provincial commands declared their support for the rebellion, which began Friday. Aquino, facing her sixth coup attempt since coming to power four years ago, rejected suggestions bv Cabinet mem­bers that she declare a "state of siege," according to assistant Press Secretary Lourdes Sytangco. That would be tanta­mount to martial law. At least 56 people have been killed and more than 500 wounded since Fri­day, according to hospital and Red Cross figures. More than 10,000 people fled their homes to escape the fighting and were housed in schools, churches and other 
see COUP I page 4 
Malta summit ends, no major agreements 
MAHSAXLOKK BAY, Malta (AP) -President Bush and So­viet President Mikhail Gor­bachev left their weatherblown summit talks offering visions of a dawning era of lasting peace, with the remnants of the Cold War giving way to a better world. 
ThPy announced no break­throughs Sunday on issues that divide their countries, such as Central America and naval dis­armament, but said that was not the point of their open­agenda dockside encountNs. 
In their parting remarks, both chose to emphasize mu­tual aspirations. 
"We sought the answer to the question where we stand now," Gorbachev told reporters. "Many things that were charac­teristic of the Cold War should be abandoned ... the arms race. 
mistrust, psychological and ideological struggle and all that. All that should be things of the past." 
Trading relaxed banter at the first-ever joint news conference of Soviet and U.S. presidents, Bush and Gorbachev repeatedly echoed each other's words as they described their talks and their hopes for the future. 
"I couldn't have asked for a better result out of this non­summit summit," Bush said. "It was a no-agenda meeting and yet it was a meeting where were discussed, as the chairman said, many, many subjects. So I think if a meeting can improve relations, I think this one has." 
The next chance comes in June, when a full-scale Bush­Gorbachev summit is scheduled 
see SUMMIT I page 4 

Entire East German communist party leadership resigns 
EAST BEHLIN (AP) -With public resentment against the ruling Commu11ists reaching a fever pitch, the party's entire leadership has resigned in dis­grace and asked a committee of 25 reformers to salvage what they can. 
Just two months ago, the party's hierarchy enforced iron-fisted rule. Now, the former ruling elite has its back against the wall as demands grow for punishment of those who Jived in style while East Germany sunk into crisis. 
Arrests and expulsions from the party have humbled top of­ficials, but the most dramatic and potentially dangerous step was the mass resignation Sun­day of party leader Egon Krenz, the 10-man Politburo and 163-member Central Committee. 
Erich Honecker, Krenz's pre­decessor as party leader, and 11 other members of the hard­line old guard were expelled from the party, three former Politburo members were ar­rested and the country's chief of trade with the West fled. 
Authorities are investigating allegations of massive corrup­tion. 
"The grass roots are in re­volt," commented West Ger­many's ARD television network. It said Sunday's unprecedented changes leave the party "without a head." 
A spokesman for the new party committee, Gregor Gysi, said its immediate task would be to investigate corruption among the discredited Com­munist elite. 
"We want to form a modern socialist party guided by the rank and file. We want to save this country. We want to save soc.ialism," said Gysi, a promi­nent East Berlin lawyer. 
The committee, given the mandate of trying to save the party, will effectively rule as the party prepares for a special congress on Dec. 15 when it is expected to choose new leaders. 
The party that has ruled East Germany for all its 40 years has already abolished its guar­anteed monopoly on power and promised free elections for as early as next year. 
It was not clear who will now try to fill the leadership vac­uum. 
The popular opposition, still in its infancy, remains poorly organized while the Communist Party has a broad power base from which leaders with grass­roots support could emerge. 
Among the reformers named to the new 25-member party committee are Dresden Mayor Wolfgang Berghofer and the country's former spy chief, Markus Wolf. 
Huge demonstrations contin­ued despite the party leaders' resignation. 
Several hundred thousand people joined hands to form "human chains" in sections across the country Sunday de­spite freezing temperatures. They held up signs calling for the removal of the "Central Committee mafia" and impris­onment for ex-party "criminals." 

page 2 The Observer Monday, December 4, 1989 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Young don't know about the Cold War 
If I had to write an 
essay on "What the 
Opening of the Berlin 
Wall Means to Me," I 
would be at a loss. 
Unfortunately, I've 
found that I don't 
have much of an 
appreciation for the 
changes taking place 
4 .. 
in Communist Europe, 
including the fact that Kelley TuthIll 
the Berlin Wall was Assistant News Editor 
opened. 
Part of my problem is that I am only 19 years old. I wasn't alive when the Wall was built. Nor was I a witness to the beginning of communist oppression in East Germany. I only knew that people in East Germany were oppressed; I didn't see the beginning. In my lifetime I suppose I will only witness the beginning of the end of this oppression. 
r think a large part of my problem is that in high school my history courses included world history and Amnrican history. In studying world history, we started at the birth of civilization and never got anywhere near the 1900's. Then junior year in American history we reached the 20th century, but we stopped at The Great Depression. 
When I look back at junior high school the story is much the same. Seventh grade, world history; eighth grade, American history. The texts always included modern history, but summer vacation interrupted tlw class just before we got to modern history. 
Young people need to know history, in­cluding modern history. When I .took the National Endowment for the Humanities test on history and literature I found that I made many errors in the modern history section. I was never taught about the World Wars, tlw Vietnam War or the building of the Berlin Wall. 
Junior high schools, high schools, and especially eollr~ges, must include mandatory courses that teach students about modern history. I know that Columbus discovered America. I know that George Washington was the first president of the United States. I should know when the Berlin Wall was built and why it was significant, but I don't. 
Educators cannot forget that their stu­dents missed a lot of history by being born in the late '60's or later. We need to be taught what we were not alive to experience ourselves. 
Th11 changes taking place right now in the world are exciting and I'm lucky to witness them. However, the nightly news and Time magazine can only tell me so much. 
They say the Cold War is ending, but I'd like to know when and why it began. It's hard to become excited over world events when you've never be educated as to why they're important in the first place. 
Many teachers and professors say that students are not intellectually curious enough, but maybe they just don't know what we're curious about. It could be that we'd like to learn about events that took plac11 before we were born other than the history we've learned many times before. 

Ihe~ Observer 
P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Today's Staff: 
Production Graphics
Karen Newlove radford J. Boehm
Wendy Cunnigham Day Staff
VIewpoint News 
Julie Parker 
Kim Skiles Matt Gallajlher Dave Brunner Sandra W1egand Melissa Gorham Ad Design 
Maria Blohm Systems Shannon Roach Amalia Mieir Accent Ryan Roberts Dan Towers Paige A. Smoron Kerry Clain 
Shonda Wilson 
Business liz Panzica SportsMaureen Gallagher Greg Guffey 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) IS published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacat1on periods The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved 
WEATHER 
Yesterday's high: 24 
Yesterday's low: 22 
Nation's high: 85 
20 (Oceanside, Calif) Nation's low: -1 0 (International Falls, Minn) 
Forecast: 
Partly cloudy and be­
coming gradually 
warmer today through 
Wednesday. Highs 
from 25 to 35 today 
and lows from 10 to 
20. Warming into the 30s Tuesday with lows of15 to 25. Into the 40s Wednesday with lows in the 30s. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY ©1989 Accu-Weather, Inc 
Pressure 
® © f~~ ~ [Til G Exxx) 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
Saint Nick's Christmas Bazaar will be hosted by Spanning the Globe, a discussion panel of French the Saint Mary's College Student Government Monday and American students, will exchange views on their re­through Friday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the LeMans Hall spective countries and cultures tonight at 7 p.m. at lobby. Theodore's. 
WORLD 

Mikhail Gorbachev and Pope John Paul II The Soviet-led invasion of Czechoslavakia swept away decades of hostility between Rome and that crushed the "Prague Spring" reforms of 1968 was a Moscow on Friday, when the two met in the Vatican City. mistake, the Communist Party admitted Friday, in effect The Soviet leader promised religious freedom at home, apologizing for 21 years of repression. "We are of the agreeing to diplomatic ties with the Vatican and inviting opinion that the intervention of live countries in 1968 was 
the pontiff to visit the Soviet Union, a country which his­torically has disparaged religion. At this first meeting be­tween a Kremlin chief and a pope, Gorbachev obtained a pledge from John Paul to support his perestroika reform policies. 
No possibility of German reunification is seen by the Soviet Union according to Valetin Falin, chief of the Soviet Communist Party Central Committee's interna­tional department, despite the breadth of changes sweep­ing Europe. Parallels between this weekend's Malta sum­mit and the 1945 Yalta Conference that decided Europe's postwar fate are rejected by the Soviet Union, the senior Soviet policymaker said Friday. Nor does it foresee any East European countries abandoning the Warsaw Pact military alliance, he said. 
not justified and the decision to do it was wrong," Polit­buro member Vasil Mohorita said, referring to a new "Action Program" thfl party has drafted. !lis statement opened the way for a reassessment by the Kremlin and the four other participants in the invasion that ended the reforms, possibly at a Warsaw Pact meeting next week in Moscow. 
A tropical storm limped through the Caribbean Sunday with little threat of making landfall, forecasters said. Tropical Storm Karen, which brewed on the final day of the hurricane season, drenched sections of Cuba with up to 14 inches of rain before veering south and has remained virtually stationary off the Central American coast with winds of about 40 m.p.h., barely above tropical storm strength. 
NATIONAL 

A vitamin A cream to wipe out wrinkles andre-A fighter jet crashed Sunday while on maneu­store a youthful look to sun-damaged skin will be clini-vers over rural west Alabama, killing two Mississippi Air cally tested starting next month. So far, it has proven it-National Guardsmen and igniting small forest fires, au­self only on rabbits and mice. Dr. Thomas Nigra of the thorities said. The RF4-C fighter jet crashed around 10:05 Washington Hospital Center said the new cream, called a.m. while flying with two other aircraft from Key Field Pelretin, \Viii be tested for six months on 240 patients in Air National Guard Base at Meridian, Miss., said Col. three cities and results should be known in about a year. David Hughley. The pilot, Maj. George Dugas, 38, of The results of the animal tests, said Nigra, were Germantown, Tenn., and the plane's weapons system offi­"dramatic." It may be four years or more before Pelretin cer, Capt. Raymond Bryson, 31. of Montgomery, were vic.. is available as a prescription compound, he said. tims. 
INDIANA MARKET UPDATE ALMANAC 
In connection with the paddling of 
On December 4:

Closings for December 4, 1989
two students because of their grades, a pri­

e In 1882: Francisco Franco vate school principal and the school board was born.
president in Gashburg, Ind. have been ar­e In 1918: President Wilsonrested. Larry Adams, 43, president of 
Volume in shares 

sails for the Versailles PeaceCornerstone Christian Academy's school Conference.
239.23 Million

board, and his wife, Elizabeth, 42, both of e In 1926: Notre Dame beatsStilesvile, were released on bond from the University of SouthernMorgan County Jail at Martinsville. Deputy California in football.
Prosecutor Darla Brown said warrants 
NYSE Index 

e In 1946: The New York
were issued charging Adams with two 
193.66 02.36 

Times reveals the presence ofcounts of battery on a child under 13. Each 
S&P Composite 
Nazi rocket scientists in U.S.

charge is a Class D felony. 
350.63 0 4.64 

e In 1979: President Carter


A proposal to upgrade U.S. 41 Dow Jones Industrials 
announces he will run for re­between Evansville and Chicago to interstate 2,747.65 041.38 
election. 

standards through the use of $3.5 million e In 1980: The bodies of Jean

Precious Metals 

was made by a Terre Haute area legislator, Donovan, Sister Dorothy Kazal.
Rep. Vern Tincher, O-Riley. Implementation Gold "\} $2.0 to $413.60 I oz. 
Sister Ita Ford and Sister
would use money budgeted for planning an 
Silver "\} .7¢ to $5.663 I oz. 

Maura Clarke found outside ofEvansville-to-Indianapolis highway. He also San Salvador. 
suggests a bypass from Youngstown about Source: AP e In 1983: U.S.N. Lieutenantfive miles south of Terre Haute to Interstate Robert Goodman taken pris­70. Tincher detailed his suggestions in a oner by Syria. 
letter to Indiana Department of 
Transportation Director Christine Letts. 
Monday, December 4, 1989 
The Observer page 3 

SB teacher studies Japanese schools 
By LIZ HAVEL diversity add to the unity and News Writer serve to reinforce the values of 
The differences between the country. Japanese and American school Pressure also factors highly was the topic of a lecture given in the success of Japanese stu­by Howard Wallace to the dents, who are always pushed Saint Mary's Education Club at to conform to the high stan­Maledeva Hall last night. dards of society, Wallace said. 
Wallace is an English teacher Trade-offs between Japan's at Clay High School and visited educational system and that of Japan in the summer of 1988 the United States include a loss as a member of the South Bend of diversity and variety of expe­team of Indiana's "Learning rience on the part of Japanese and Teaching about Japan students as eompared to Project." The focus of this pro­American students. ject is to internationalize American students have the Indiana's curriculum and learn advantages of student employ­what makes the Japanese ment, interscholastic sports, school system so successful. and a focus on independence 
Japanese and American and individualism, Wallace school systems are very similar, said. On the one hand this according to Wallace, but means American students tend .Japanese students are achieving to be more individual in their more than their American social development and more count<~rparts, because of cul­street level in their sense of tural and societal differences. worldliness. On the other hand 
.Japan has a value system that Japanese students are focused honors learning as well as edu­on group social development cation. Wallace said. Students and are more aware of interna­arn expncted to work hard and tional events than their teadwrs are highly respected. American counterparts, he 
Schools are structured so said. that students foeus on their Structural differences be­studins and there are few dis­tween the two systems include tractions. This includes laws the fact that eurriculum is that make it impossible for standardized on a national level students to hold jobs or drive in Japan. The resources spent ears before the age of Pighteen. in Japanese schools are far less ThorP are also no intnrscholas­than those in the United States. tic athletics and gem~rally no This results from larger classes dating beforf' college level. in Japan, ranging anywhere Wallaee said. from 40 to 50 students; little 
The homogeneous nature of money spent on maintenance .Japannse society unifins the ed­because the students clean the ucational system sinen there schools themselves; and stu­arn few differences that need to dents who provide their own be accommodated for. The lack transportation to and from of religious and gpographical school, Wallace said. 


The Observer/Sarah Vakkur

The season to ski 

Junior Laura Eizember (left) and graduate student Cathy Gasparski discuss the exhilaration after tak­ing advantage of one of the more positive aspects of the snowfall this weekend, cross-country skiing off the campus lakes. 


Bush meets with NATO leaders, discusses Malta summit with allies 
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) ­President Bush reports today to NATO leaders on his super­power summit with Mikhail Gorbachev, saying the allies can be pleased with two days of talks that helped "tear down any remaining barriers" erected during 45 years of Cold War. 
The president said the meet­ing helped dispel Gorbachev's doubts about Bush's attitude toward economic and political reforms in the Soviet Union, as the United States applauds the fall of hard-line communist regimes throughout Eastern Europe. 
"I don't think he has me down as a total negativist at all and I certainly don't have him down" that way, Bush said be­fore leaving the Mediterranean island of Malta, where he held eight hours of discussions with Gorbachev aboard the Soviet cruise liner Maxim Gorky. 
Arriving here Sunday night, Bush said, "Much was accom­plished to accelerate and im­prove East-West relations." 
While there were no concrete agreements, Bush and Gor­bachev said they want to speed completion of three arms con­trol treaties: to banish chemical weapons, slash long-range nu­clear missiles by as much as 50 percent and to reduce troops, tanks, artillery and other con­ventional forces in Europe. 
There had been some concern 
among the allies that Bush and Gorbachev might strike an arms deal without consulting them, but Bush said there were "no surprises." 
Today's gathering of leaders from the 16-member North At­lantic Treaty Organization was a mini-summit of its own. Bush planned to brief them during two rounds of talks spanning about 4 1/2 hours. 
Gorbachev, meanwhile, was baek in Moscow to brief leaders of a radically reshaped Warsaw Pact. Attendance by Polish Prime Minister Tadeusz Ma­zowiecki, a Solidarity figure, marked the first time a non­communist would sit at the table. 
A WEEKEND 
RETREAT EXPERIENCE 
GUIDED BY 
STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
An opportunity, In dialogue with others, to deepen your understanding of yourself, your values, your relationship with Christ, your experience of Christian community and service. 
WHEN: September 15-17, 1989 November 17-19, 1989 January 19-21, 1990 March 2-4, 1990 
CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office (Hesburgh Library) 239-7800 
'\.l_SIGN UP 
~EADLINE: !Je.c.embeJt 4 -II 
COST: $20.00 


Cinemaat theSnite 
TONIGHT 7:00 

Special Ski Package: 
•Deluxe 
motor coach transportation, includes VCR wide-body coaches 

•2 
Nights deluxe lodging at Chestnut Mtn. Resort, Galena, IL 

•2 
breakfasts & 2 dinners 

•3 
days of lift tickets 

•1 
group lesson ..All taxes, baggage fees, and meal gratuities. 


Tour #1 Midweek, 3 days, 2 nights Tues, Jan. 3 thru Thurs, Jan. 5 $202 per person 
Tour #2Weekend Fri, Feb. 9 thru Sun, Feb. 11, $255 per person 
•based on quad occupancy 


8TUD:ENT A.CT'LV'LT'L:£8 BOA.RD: 
II St. Nick's Christmas Bazaaru begins today in Lemans Lobby goes on until Friday-last chance for Christmas shopping CLUB TUESDAY: TOMORROW NIGHT IN HAGGAR PARLOR­SHEILA O'DONNELL AND CHRISTMAS CAROLS THIS WEEK'S MOVIE WA_ffiCQ)UT ILA~T NIIGlliTTw TUESDAY -THURSDAY 9:00 AND 11:15 IN CARROLL AUD. $1 adm. 

page 4 The Observer Monday, December 4, 1989 
Coup 
continued from page 1 
rnfugnn enntnrs. Many shops 
wore dosed, and garbage piled 
high in the strnnts. 
Schools wPrc dosed indefi­
nitely. but officials planned to 
mopnn the international air­
port Monday. Domestic llights 
rmnainnd suspnndnd. 
Air force officials also said 
18 of the 37 people charged in 
the 1983 murder of Aquino's 
husband. Benigno Aquino, re­
main at large after rebds re­
leased them from the stockade 
at Villamor air base. The rebels 
seized the base at tlw outbreak 
of the attemptPCI coup and later 
gave it up. 
Pro-governnwnt fore1~s con­

$500,000 scholarship endowment established 
Special to The Observer 
A $500,000 scholarship en­dowment for undergraduate students has been established at the University of Notre Dame by Salvatore Lal'ilusa, 

M.D. of Bayonne, New Jersey. Dr. Lal'ilusa's gift memorial­izes his wife, Lorrairw McNally LaPilusa. who died on January 4, 1989. 
At the request of Dr. Lal'ilusa. the annual scholar­ships will be given to selected outstanding undergraduates of Irish or Italian descent who arc in need of financial assistance to continue tlwir education. One half of the fund's earnings wi II hn providcd to those students of Irish heritage and the other half to those of Italian descent. Special consideration will be given to thn academic achinvnments. dHtracter, and leadership qualities of scholarship candidates. 
"Undergraduate scholarships an~ the most compnlling of our current fundraising goals," said Fr. Edward Malloy, C.S.C., pn~sident of Notre Dame. 
·~,_..,_..,_,.~.._...-...-..~.-...-..,_,.._..~..-.-....-....-.c~..-..,_.1 
SPRINGTIME IN LONDON: 19~901~.~~~ll
.· 
MARCH 9-18 _ 1::~ 
1.____:____ --­
; ~r?ffl'«1 I ~ Tour jncludes all of the folowl!]) for one low cost: ~ 

I 
*Round trip AIRFARE: Chicago -London via British Airways. *Round trip TRANSFERS: Airport-Hotel 1 *8 NIGHTS: The Royal National Hotel -all rooms with private I 
bath & continental breakfast. *7 day London Regional Transport Visitor Travelcard. I *Full Day Guided Tour: Stratford-on-Avon and Oxford I 
*Experienced Guides to Assist with: theatre bookings, shopping, sightseeing 

J 
**Towl eo.t per penaon: $975.00~caH SEVEN SEAS TRAVEL, South Bend, for details~ 232·7995 (call today!) 

~ 
tairwd hundrnds of rebels in an 11-building area in the financial distriet of Makati, where nu­nwrous foreign embassies are located and where many for­eign diplomats and business­men live, said military Chief of Staff Gen. Henato de Villa. 
Government troops blocked off avenues leading to Makati on Sunday. Hebels fired volleys of machine-gun fire from skyscrapers and snipf~rs shot at vehides. Among the buildings rebels occupied was the lnter­eontinental Hotel. 
Loyal troops responded with rocoilless rilles and heavy ma­chirw guns, causing widespread damage. 
A spokesman for the U.S.-run Clark Air Base said there were no American warplanes in the skins over Manila on Sunday. 



.II' 

~ 
• 
• 


Painstaking progress 

The observer/Sarah Vakkur Fifth year Architecture student Brian Bezilla diligently puts the finishing touches on his thesis project. 



Summit 
continued from page 1 
for Washington. 

Thn fireworks missing in the superpower talks were supplied Sunday night in a loud and col­orful display over the Grand Harbor of Valletta, the capital of this Mediterranean island nation. 

scholarship program that can help pay the cost of medical school. If selected, you can contin­ue your present studies -and stop worrying about how to pay for them. Participation is based on competitive selection. For informa­tion with no obligation, talk to an Air Force representative. Call 
OFFICER PROGRAMS 317-547-1127 COLLECT 

Happy Late Birthday, Tasha! 
Missy, Liz, & Cecilia 






LIGmOUSE MALL TRIP 
IITIIEFII 
IHK lffiBIW
CBISTUIIIDPPIC 
ITllPIEEJ

AFTEI FIALI? TICKETS: $5,

DECEMBER 

ON SALE NOW
9, 1989 

AT LAFORTUNE laiiMIIJ.(IIi-ltll INFORMATION ...115:• DESK 
53 STORES INCLUDING: *ANNE KLBN OUTLET *VAN HBISON FACTORY OURET *BASS SHOE OUnET *POLO-RALPH lAUREN OUTLET *BENmON *J.H. COLLECTIBLES FACTORY OUnET *LEATHER MANOR *JONATHON LOGAN FACTDRY OURET 
Gorbachcv, meanwhile, headed for Moscow to meet with his Warsaw Pact allies while Bush traveled to Brussds to brief the NATO allies. 
"Tonight we stand at the crossroads of history on our wa to a Europe made whole and frne," Bush said wlwn lw arrived in Brussnls. "Today as the sun broke through thP clouds thnrn at Malta. we could both s1w a new world taking shape, a nnw world of frnP­dom," he said. 
..-.._.._..._.._.._....,_...__.._,.~-------._..-­


----~---------------------­



Business 

Monday, December 4, 1989 page 5 
Japan market difficult, Keiretsu obstacle to U.S. firms 
TOKYO (AP) -Trade nego­U.S. officials expressed dis­led by Mitsui, Mitsubishi, Sum­
tiators have haggled over cars, appointment after talks in itomo, Fuyo (Fuji), Sanwa and
but lucrative venture 
TOKYO lAP) -Breaking into the lucrative Japanese market isn't impossible, but it isn't easy, either. Consider Snickers. 
For Mars Co., putting Snick­ers, Mars bars and M&M's within reach of Japanese con­sumers required "a mind-bog­gling expenditure of time and money," said Kiyoshi Ide, senior managing director of Mars' .Japanese subsidiary. Master Foods KK. 
The breakthrough also re­quin~d an alliance with one of .Japan's giant trading compa­nies. Mars leaped over Japan's formidable barriers by using Mitsubishi Corporation's exten­sive eontacts to place its candy bars at subway kiosks and in gron~ ry stores. 
Mars began selling candy in .Japan in 1987. While the com­pany won't divulge sales fig­urns, it said surveys show Snkkers' share of th1~ chocolate bar market is growing, from its small base. faster than that of any other brand. 
Foreign companies attempt­ing to sell in Japan have to hurdle governrnent barriers ­including murky rules and rPgulations, import duties, fair tradP price laws that limit sales promotion activities, and com­plex import procedums. 
But the maze-like distribution system -rigidly controlled by wholnsalPrs -is a particular hindrance to importers because it typically inerflases prices up to four times after Japanflse distributors add on their markups. 
For "status" products. the climb is even stBeper. The wholesal1~ price of a bottle of Hennessy's VSOP Scotch whiskey is $7, but by the time it hits storn shelves it is $77.50. 
Consider the imported neck­tin: $28 to thfl import agent, who s1~lls it to a wholflsaler for $56, who sells it to a depart­nwnt store for $70, which dis­plays it beautifully and gets $112 from the customer. 
The distribution system is under scrutiny by Japanese and 
U.S. trade negotiators in talks 



..___e_·.

___----... Markup 


One problem imported products face when competing in Japan is the huge markup that the complex Japanese distribution system adds to the final retail price. 
Example: a necktie 
The import agent pays: 
D$28 
The wholesale distributor pays: 
c.$56 
The department store's buyer pays 


~$70 
The customer pays: 
$112! 
I I Distribution markup: 300% i 
AP/Pat Lyons 
on the two nations' structural barriers to trade. 
Simply finding someone to distribute new products in Japan often is impossible be­cause of exclusive, longstanding relationships between wholesalers and retailers. Sole import agents, although easier to find, limit a product's sales. 
Amway Corporation, the American direct-sales company, is doing a booming business here. Its secret? It imported its own distribution system. 
The company offers house­hold items. toiletries and cook­ware through its network of 500,000 Japanese distributors who sell through personal con­tacts from their homes. A phone call to one of Amway's three modern distribution cen­ters will produce an item within 72 hours, says Peter Scacco of Amway. 
Amway is the fastest-growing foreign company in Japan, ac­cording to a study by the No­mura Hesearch Institute, with sales of more than half a billion dollars last year. 
clothes, phones, skis, electrical switches, oranges, beef, semi­conductors, supercomputers, wood -you name it -trying to shrink the stubborn U.S. deficit with Japan. 
After more than 20 years of pressure and persuasion, and some recent improvement in the trade balance, Washington is zeroing in on what many ex­perts say has been the issue all along: Heal progress depends on changing the way the Japanese do business. 
"Japan's systems for buying and distributing goods are the biggest obstacle facing U.S. manufacturers who export or do business in Japan," H.K. Morris, director of international trade policy for the National Association of Manufacturers, recently told a U.S. Senate committee in Washington. 
With Japan accounting for 40 percent of the U.S. trade deficit last year, the imbalance hasn't fallen as far as it should have given the weakening of the dol­lar against the yen, U.S. offi­cials say. 
Behind the arcane trade rules once used to keep imports out lies an even more formidable challenge -"keiretsu," or networks of financial and per­sonal ties that bind Japanese subcontractor to manufacturer to wholesaler to retailer, in al­most impenetrable alliances. 

Washington in November at which Japanese officials said they would "advise" firms to end practices keeping foreign companies out of their market, but warned that quick change was unlikely. 
"There was very little flexibil­ity in the Japanese government position ... in reaching common ground on the nature of the problems, even problems which appear to be widely recognized in Japan," U.S. Assistant Trea­sury Secretary Charles Dallara said after the talks. 
Japan's insular, exclusive business culture and the Hfestyle and tastes of its dis­criminating consumers lie out­side government jurisdiction. 
In most cases, but certainly not all, a foreigner hoping to sell to Japan no longer faces obvious legal barriers, U.S. of­ficials say. Quotas and excessive duties on alcohol, beef, citrus and many other products have been negotiated out of ex­istence. 
Vociferous complaints and lengthy trade talks also have helped to end the strange re­strictions like those that once judged foreign-made skis "unsuitable" for Japanese snow. 
Instead, foreign and Japanese businessmen trying to sell new products here face alliances of Japan's most powerful firms ­Dai-Ichi Kangyo-each with its own banks, retailers and real estate, insurance and manufacturing companies. 
These are the "keiretsu," and there are some 30 smaller ones as well. Through interlocking holdings, they own more than 70 percent of shares on Japan's stock markets. 
Cartels by any other name, the keiretsu enable competing manufacturers to fix prices and divide markets among them­selves -activities that would be illegal under antitrust laws in the United States or Europe but provoke only mild govern­ment warnings here. 
According to a study by the American Chamber of Com­merce in Japan, almost 48 per­cent of home electronics in Japan are sold through exclu­sively affiliated stores and 99 percent of cars are distributed through exclusive dealerships. 
The keiretsu are looser ver­sions of the industrial com­bines, or "zaibatsu," of wartime Japan. 
Japan's commercial armies are the nation's economic de­fense. Only Japanese products carry the guarantee of being returned to the wholesaler if they do not sell. Imports don't. Through such arrangements, Japanese manufacturers keep 
1.6 million retailers in business. 

Weak growth seen for final quarter 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The government's chief economic forecasting gauge signaled a slowdown in October, but other evidence suggested lower interest rates will keep the economy from toppling into a recession. 
The 0.4 percent drop in the Commerce Department's Index of Leading Economic Indicators announced Friday fits in with the consensus among analysts that the final quarter of this year and the first three months of 1990 will see weak growth at best. 

"The indicators are telling us what they've been telling us for some time and that is that the economy is continuing to expand, but at a slow rate," said economist David Berson of the Federal National Mortgage As­sociation. 
However, he and other ana­lysts said a number of factors mitigated the unfavorable re­port. The decline followed two monthly gains; most of the weakness was concentrated in only two of the index's 11 for­ward-looking business statis­tics. 
And, elements of the index and a separate report on October construction spending suggest that the Federal Reserve Board's cuts in interest rates since June are beginning to stimulate the economy. 
Construction activity rose 1 percent in October, bolstered by the first gain in single­family construction in nine months, the Commerce Department said. 



Computer industry finds profit in American illiteracy 
The troubled computer in­dustry thinks it may have found a new profit center for the 1990's by focusing on a problem even bigger than its own: the illiteracy of Amer­ica. 
Look for a major push by tlH~ technology tycoons at the national educational conclave in Washington in February. The meeting is billed as a hard-hPaded, practical follow­up to the first such conclave in Charlottesville, Va .. this fall. when President Bush and 48 governors espoused a gen­eralized concern about the sad state of American educa­tion. 
The argument you'll be hearing from computer companies is that one of the most cost-efficient ways of spending any new money for education is on more and better technology. 
IBM. for example, is getting ready to spread the story of Orangeburg, S.C., where in 197 5 only fourteen percent of the 6,500 students-80 percent black, 70 percent on reduced-price school lunches-scored better that the national average on the Comprehensive Test of Basic Skills. That jumped to 57 percent in 1988, after installation of 140 IBM computers. ("We use the same books, we have the same teachers, the same administrators," says school superintendent James A. Wilsford. "The intervening variable is the computers.") 
Computers in schools are scarcely a new idea, of course; more than a million educationally oriented com­puters and programs have been installed in the past decade. But executives of companies like IBM, Apple, Commodore and Tandy are convinced that this is just the beginning of the role they can play in educating backwards students, particularly in the inner cities. 
The dimensions of the problem are indisputable. An estimated 23 million Ameri­cans cannot read or write. About 50 percent of prison 

Louis Rukeyser 
Tribune Media Services 
inmates are illiterate, which may be one big reason why they started down the road to the slammer in the first place. Kids are quitting school at the rate of 3,600 every school day, and the estimated percentage of high school students who fail to graduate has jumped to a new high of 28.9 percent. 
U.S. businesses spent $25 billion a year simply retrain­ing workers who enter the employment market unpre­pared. 
The computer manufactur­ers, eyeing the lucrative school system market, are heartened by the admission of Education Secretary Lauro F. Cavazos that the country has been "standing still" educationally for three years running, "and so it's time to turn things around." 
Technology can do just that, industry executives argue, by appealing to the instant-fun inclinations of today's youth, while making the routine tasks of learning interesting. 

As James B. Dezell, head of educational marketing for IBM, put it to me, "Technology makes learning exciting. If we're going to solve the serious dropout and illiteracy problems in America, we have to make learning exciting. The ability to do that is available today." 
An array of technology "smarts" to capture students' attention and help them learn is increasingly available. Apple, which long has pushed for dominance in the youth markets, has supplemented its educational hardware and software with an "Educational Technology Consultants Program" that even provides advice on fund-raising. Tandy's "School Mate" connects stand-alone computer software into a network of integrated learning systems. IBM has come up with programs like "Writing to Read," which entertainingly shows kids how to write the words they are speaking. And Commodore has introduced a new line of personal computers specifically for educational purposes. 
In a period when it is far easier for Americans to proclaim goals than to finance their achievement, the new classroom technology will inevitably face stringent budget constraints. On its side, however, is a growing recognition of the price of continued inaction; by some estimates, problems related to illiteracy are costing the nation as much as $200 billion a year, and recent Japanese cnticisms of the state of our educational system are only the latest evidence of the damage it is doing to America's image an(:! competitiveness. It would be poetic justice if a country that forgot how to read were helped back up the learning ladder by the darned com­puters themselves. 




Viewpoint
page 7 Monday, December 4, 1989 
_Ihe _QbseiVer 
P.O Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regts COCCia Rtch Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly K1llen Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager Al1son Cocks Accent Editor John Blast Systems Mgr Bernard Brenn1nkmeyer Photo Editor Enc Batley OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chnstlne Gtll Controller Anne L1ndner 
The Observer ts the tndependent newspaper published by the students olthe Untverst­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessanly rellect the poi­ICtes of the adm1n1strat1on of e1ther 1nst1tutton. The news IS reported as accurately and ob­Jectively as posstble Unstgned edttorials represent the op1n1on of the ma1onty of the lollow1ng Ed1tor-1n:Ch1ef. Managtng Ed1tor. Executive News Ed1tor. V1ewpo1nt Ed1tor Sports Ed1tor. Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sa1nt Mary's Edttor Commentanes letters. and the lnstde Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space IS available to all members of the community and the free expresston of varytng op1n1ons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 

c::._ 


Using Russian to redefine U.S. 'democracy' 
to the U.S. administration at U.S. defender of democracy and 
all. The modern U.S. diplomatic freedom,' expressed his fond 
history is replete with many dream in a speech delivered 
such instances. But Fidel Castro here at Notre Dame that the 
and Daniel Ortega are held now U.S. will ermwge as the single 
as the two most dangerous superpower and gave vent to 
anti-democracy monsters in the his worry concerning America's 
whole of our world. strength and existence of pro­
If this is the United States' grams neeessary to lead the view of democracy, election and world. Although I fear that the parliamentary process, its 'mania to lead' is often fatal by stand on terrorism is even itself. I perstmally feel that at more interesting. The U.S. ad-least some people might ministration maintains a vaguely consider the possibletroduced to me by my parents 
land area and long coastline. mon factors, my predominant shameless terrorist organiza-acceptance of a United States during my childhood. As a Both peoples had to fight the Tanil sentiment, "Where you tion-the CIA-which blatantly hegemony in world affairs pro­young college student, I used to British to aehieve independence are is your native and whom murders people, overthrows le-vided that eertain terms and hold the United States as the and had to undergo civil rights you meet your relative," makes gitimate governments and ere-conditions are immediatelysymbol of human freedom, lib­struggles to overcome out-me love this country as much as ates chaos all over the world. satisfied and kept by the United erty and democracy. The incli­moded social customs like 1 love India. That is the operational aspect States. nation or the rightist and leftist 'untouchability' and 'slavery'. An elected government in In-of the U.S. democracy. But. ac-Mahatma Gandhi onee said, factions of the 'Communist Both countries are a sort of dia, voted to power by the uni-cording to the U.S., what the "My notion of democracy is Party of India' toward Beijing 'melting pot' of peoples, and versa! suffrage of millions of PLO, ANC, and SWAPO do is that, under it, the weakest and Moscow respectively to whoever comes into the country men and women and toiling to human savagery and naked ter-should have the same opportu­solve our problems as well as is easily assimilated, rapidly create a better life marked by rorism. nity as the strongest." This the terrorist activities of the beeoming lndianized or Ameri-individual liberty and human The U. S. administration 'opportunity' is an all-embrae­Marxist-Leninist 'Naxalites' in canized. freedom, was callously let down refuses to give a visa to Vasser ing concept. It is high time the some areas of India made me There has always been large and brow-beaten by the Nixons, Arafat, even after he has U.S. 'ruling clique', which has rnally worry about the possible scale intermingling of thoughts. Kissingers and Richard Helm-renounced violence and ex-left 35 million people poor and occurrence of a so-called ideas and inspiration between ses. However, a military dicta-pressed willingness to recog-has made 58 pereent of the 'revolution' in India. It also the peoples of both countries. tor, Yahya Khan, who refused nize the state of Israel. He U.S. masses feel powerless and made my love for the U.S. even Indian philosophy influenced the democratic rights of West wants to come into the U.S. alienated, reevaluate their deli-deeper. New England writers such as Pakistanis and ruthlessly mur-territory not to see Niagara nitions for democracy, freedom 
This love is not one which has Walt Whitman, Emerson and dered the East Pakistanis, was Falls but to address the United and liberty with clear con-no strong base. India, my 
Thoreau, and they, in turn, in-patted on the back with the Nations, a world body, as a science and try to live up to homeland, and the United fluenced Mahatma Gandhi's Seventh Fleet. Yahya Khan and popular represeritative of mil-their professed values honestly.States have quite a lot in com­thoughts greatly, and Gandhi, his Foreign Minister Bhutto re-lions of Palestinians. But Jonas The U.S. badly needs our own mon. The historical connection then, influenced Martin Luther fused to transfer power to the Savimbi, a bandit and leader of glasnost and perestroika.obviously began with a quirk of King profoundly. popularly-elected ·Awami a handful of UNITA rebels is fate: the present-day United Interestingly, India and the League' leader, Sheik Mujibur welcomed on the White House S.P. Udayakumar is a gradu­States was Columbus' India. U.S. are the two largest democ-Rahman; that did not appear to lawns with open arms. ate student in the Institute for Both countries are strategically racies in today's international be a crime against democracy Robert McFarlane, a 'typical International Peace Studies. 
Chauvinistic attitudes mean real Laundry victims get lost in the wash 
Dear Hditor: tion that "Notre Dame is finally perpetuated by her so-called is not about women with atti-O'Leary's article. Iler last tip, We are writing in response to being punished, either by God "tips." Her column is nothing tude problems or men w'ith "if all else fails, eall Mom." We 
Janice O'Leary's Inside Column or some feminist group, for its more than reverse chauvinism. laundry problems, however. It say "Why not eall Dad?" 
(The Observer, Nov. 20). In at-chauvinistic ways" is prepos-Her implication that men are is about jobs. Many people lost 
tempting to make light of the terous and hypocritical. This domestically ignorant is theirs, and Miss O'Leary ne­
disastrous oceurrenee, Miss logic can be analogized to that paramount to the male as-glects this important fact. Matt Davis O'Leary makes some clearly of homophobic fear that AIDS sumptions that women can't The chauvinistic attitudes at Bruce Guay prejudiced, as well as offensive, is God's punishment for being change flat tires, mow the this University will continue to Matt Langie remarks. homosexual. lawn, or function in any tradi-persist if men and women alike /Job Mc/,aughlin We would all like to address Furthermore, the idea of tionally male-dominated pro-continue to propagate them. Dave Vreeland the fallacies in most of her chauvinism, a sensitive subject fession. Chauvinism is a two way street, Keenan 1/all points. First of all, the asser-at this University, is simply The disaster at St. Michael's as is evidenced by Miss Nov. 20, 1989 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 



Accent

Monday, December 4, 1989 page 6 
What a Question inspires new conversation 
ROBYN SIMMONS 
assistant accent editor 
Late night discussions in the dorm usually lead to bleary­eyed mornings for collt=:ge stu­dents, but for Daniel R. Murray the late night conversations he had during his undergraduate days at Notre Dame were the inspiration of his first book, What A Question! Opening Doors to Conversation and Windows of Discovery. 
What A Question is a book of conversation-inspiring ques­tions. based on the discussions Murray had as an undergradu­ate and graduate student. Murray graduated from Notre Dame in 1984 with a degree in Mechanical Engineering. He is currently finishing a Masters degree in Applied Statistics and Quality Improvement at Rutgers University. 
"When people hear I wrote the book. they're really sur­prised at what I studied," said Murray. 
Here is a sampling of the questions in Murray's book: 
* 
If you could write your next fortune cookie, what would it say? 

* 
lias there ever been a time in your life you later considered to be a turning point? 

* 
If you were granted one wish for any person other than yourself, whom would you choose to give it to. and what would you wish for that per­son? 


Murray's interest in philo­sophical discussions began while he was an ND under­graduate living in Stanford Hall. "Wh~t used to happen is some friends of mine and I would end up staying up really late in the dorm after we fin­ished studying." said Murray. 
"We had interesting conver­sations about all sorts of topics. With all of the students taking courses like philosophy 


"After I graduated and I got into the real world. I found that those conversations were very infrequent and I found it was hard to find people who were interested in having those sorts of deep conversations," he said. 
Murray finally found kindred spirits at a local diner in Para­mus, New Jersey. "I met up with a group of friends who would meet every week at a diner. and that's where the idea for writing those interesting questions came from," he said, "So at the diner, each person would contribute questions that they had thought up, and as a group we would discuss the question. 
"As that got going, I decided 
lines aren't realistic. Maybe he should go back to the big screen. 
Another problem with the show is its lack of originality. Fans of "Murphy Brown" may consider this show a sort of deja vu. The office sets are quite similar to "Brown" and the characters in the office are, to write up a list of those ques­tions so I wouldn't forget them, and that list became the early manuscript for the book. And as the list grew larger I real­ized that I could turn this into a book." said Murray. 

Based on the initial response to What a Question. Murray be­lieves that the book can be read three different ways. "The first (way) is. they read through the book on their own ahead of time. and then later when they're talking to people, ideas from the book trigger in their mind and spark conversation." said Murray. 
"Another way is some people just enjoy reading through the questions and thinking about 
too. There's even a dinghy blond on the show. just like on "Brown." There is, however. one huge difference between the two shows: "Murphy Brown" is excellent and entertaining. Where's the agent who sold "Teddy" to CBS? Maybe he has a brighter future writing com­edy for Bob Hope. 
what their answers would be," said Murray. "That's more of an introspective self-discovery approach." 
"The third way is when people actually have the book while they're talking to other people 
and will be reading questions 
from the book," he said. 
New Voyage Books, the pub­lisher of What a Question! is also offering Murray's ten point guide to conversation. Murray refrains from using hard and fast rules; one of his tips is to "have fun." The guide is sepa­rate from the book itself. and interested readers can obtain a copy of it by writing to New Voyage Books, 415 Route 18, Suite 234, East Brunswick, NJ 08816. 
"The reason I wrote What a Question! is to launch people directly into conversation with­out a lot of rules." said Murray. "I think people sometimes get turned off by a long description of conversational techniques that doesn't tell you what to talk about." 
With the publication of one book under his belt, Murray plans to write more books. "My theme (will be) relationship en­richment, in other words, im­proving your interpersonal re­lationships with other people," said Murray. 
As far as Murray's relation­ship with his friends from Stanford Hall is concerned, Murray still keeps in contact with many of the people who stayed up all night with hini, deep in conversation. 
"When I was in college I used to think that everybody that I knew there...would all be friends for life." said Murray. "What typically happens instead is people drift apart and it takes an active effort to keep in contact and finally that effort is well worth it." 
All summer. CBS braced the public for "The Famous Teddy Z;" however, they didn't brace it enough. The sitcom to ·end all sitcoms should itself be ended. "Teddy" is a drab and dull dis­appointment that drowns its devotees in disgusting drool. "Teddy" will surely be famous, but not as CBS hoped. 
and theology and mentally stimulating courses that ex­pand one's horizons. I think that leads to a lot of stimulat­ing discussion on campuses," he said. "For me, that was a very satisfying part of my col­lege experience." 
Murray's discussions with his friends were spontaneous and covered a broad range of topics. from the general to the specific. "We used to have a lot of ethical discussions about personal freedom," said Mur­ray, "The issues here were things like. 'Should the govern­ment make people wear things like seat belts, thus infringing on their personal freedom but for their own good?'" 
'Teddy' features big name and lacks plot 
Old habits are hard to break. CBS constantly thinks that placing a big name star into a two-bit show will help viewers overlook the program's medi­ocrity. Cases in point: Jon Cryer in his cheesy new sitcom 
JoeBucolo 
To be continued... 
"The Famous Teddy Z." "Z" airs on Mondays at 9:30 
p.m. It presents Jon Cryer as Teddy Zakalokis. a new young agent at thn Unlimited Talent Agency. Teddy works with A1 Floss (Alex Hoeco). a hyper. uptight agnnt who sincerely be­lieves Teddy will be a great agent once he's given the chance. Teddy may make a great agent. but "Teddy" will never make a good show. 
The premise of the show is ­well-bearable. If ABC can have a teenage doctor, CBS can have a young agent; however, a show needs to be more than bearable to succeed. The dialogue is silly and the plotlines make those of "Three's Company" seem so­phisticated. 
In one episode, AI lights to get Teddy more clients. When the bosses at UTA agree, AI gives the famous TV star. Bobby, to Teddy as a client. The problem: Bobby is a monkey. When Bobby's owner tells Teddy the monkey's a girl, Z says, "But he plays a boy on the show." The owner responds, "He's a good actor." These are the jokes, folks. 
Of course, that episode is full of monkey pranks and stunts. What's more pathetic is the fact that the monkey's grunts and noises are more intelligent than the actors' lines. While Teddy tries to keep everything under control. A1 jumps and scurries around the office as if he were related to Ed Grimley. And this is supposed to be CBS' hit of the season? 
Jon Cryer fans will remember his great performances in such movies as "Pretty in Pink" and "Hiding Out." Don't expect characters like those in this series. In fact. Cryer seems out of sorts in the program. His delivery is unnatural and his 

page 8 The Observer 

Ware 

continued from page 12 
ing this award for my team­mates and the University of Houston. This just shows that anything is possible." 
Warn. who did not attend the c1~remony because Houston played Hice University Saturdav. was the most con­trovPrsial candidate of the group. which ineluded quarter­back Darian Hagan of Colorado, Emmitt Smith of Florida. and Dowis. llotiston is currently on probation for NCAA rules violations that kept the Cougars' games from being televised. Some balloters criti­cized llouston's offense as be­ing geared to rack up statistics for Warn, and others said llouston was beating up on 
much weaker opponents, and continuing to pass when hold­ing a big lead, all to improve Ware's chances. In fact, Ware was left off 280 of the 917 bal­lots cast. 
I lis win was by reason of 242 first-place votes, 57 morn than Thompson. Ware received 132 second-place votes and 83 third-place votes. Thompson finished with 170 second-place votes and 108 third-place votes. 
"Andre had a sensational year," Thompson said. "He was definitely the worthy winner, with his stats and so forth." 
Thompson put together a sensational year himself, with 1,793 yards rushing and 25 touchdowns. faeing tougher de­fenses than Ware all season. 
''I'm not disappointnd. really. I had no idea I'd be second. I figured Ware would win it, and I'm proud to be anywhere close to that." 

"I think it was fantastic that he was a finalist," said Thompson's Indiana coach, Bill Mallory. "To be second is really exciting. I'm thankful he's been involved in our program." 
Harris was less magnanimous than other candidates. 
"I think I did an adequate job this year," Harris said. "I played in a team concept of­fense, and I think I made the most of it. I could've had com­parative numbers if I'd had the same offense. With that of­fense, if you don't put up those numbers, you sit. This isn't go­ing to affect me. I'm still a Mountaineer. and I've got to get ready to play." 
The team concept was also on Rice's mind. When asked if what he could've done to im­prove his statistics, Hice, who garnered 72 first-place votes, said: 
"If you go out there to rack up stats and you lose, what is that? That's nothing. Notre Dame is not just a one-person team. I like what hn (Ware) said about sticking tognthnr and prove people wrong. It's the team that wins." 
Hice's teammate, reeniver and kick returner Haghib "Hoeket" Ismail, tied for 1Oth in thn vot­ing with 48 points, the same as Penn State's Blair Thomas and one less. than Ty Detmer of Brigham Young. One defnnsive player was among the top 11 , Michigan State's Percy Snow. 
"I expected Ware to win it," said Thomas. "lin had a real good year. With those numbnrs. who could say no'!'' 
Those numbers wen~ NCAA 
Monday, December 4, 1989 

record-breakers. Ill~ passed for a record 4,699 yards on a record 365 completions, and fell one short of .Jim McMahon's 47 season touch­down record. 
Ware finislwd first in the voting in thn Northeast, South and Southwest regions, and second in the Mid-Atlantic, Midwest and Far Wnst. Thompson won tlw Midwest and Far West; llarris won the Mid-Atlantic. 
Hice was third in the Midwest and Far West. and fourth or fifth in thn other four mgions. llis future Orange Bowl foe, Hagan, finished fifth in the bal­loting. 
Ware was only the ninth ju­nior to win the award, and thn question remains as to wlwther he will chose to go pro after this season. 

Vols 

continued from page 12 
But the referee called Davis for a charge, wiping out the basket and giving the ball back to Termessee. On their next trip downeourt, Sara l.iebscher drove to her left at the top of the key and was tripped by a Volunteer defender. Liebscher 
was called for travelling. and her team lost its spark on the floor. 
"I don't think we should haw~ l1~t it (the officiating) bother us. but it did," said Irish coach Muffet McGraw, "The way we were playing on offense, we re­ally needed every basket we could get, so that hurt us a lit­tle bit." 
The Volunteers closed out the half with an 8-0 run to head into the locker room with a 35­23 advantage. They carried over the momentum they had gained into the second half and quickly disposed of the Irish. running out to a 45-26 lead with a little less than 13:12 left to play. 
The key to the second half was Tennessee's work on the boards. Although Notre Dame managed to outrebound the Volunteers 24-23 in the first half. Tennessee's depth at the forward position took its toll on the Irish. By the time the second half rolled around it was obvious that Notre Dame center Margaret Nowlin, who led the Irish with 10 points and 15 rebounds, could not continue to compete with the plethora of talented rebounders Tennessee brought off the bench. 

"Margaret did a good job de­fnnsively and a good job on the boards," said McGraw, "but their depth hurt us more than their size. They could CQme in with so many talented players that they wore us down." 
Turnovers also hurt the Irish in the second half. Although Notre Dame had no problems with the 1-2-2 press employed by the Volunteers in the first half, the man-to-man defense of Tennessee forced the Irish guards to turn over tlw ball several times. 
"They forced our offense out away from the basket, and our guards didn't handle the ball very well. Our strnngth is sup­posed to be in our ball han­dling, but it's tough l'or us to simulate this (type of pressure) in practice because we only have 9 players. That's tlw strength of a team like Tennessee. they can go against a scout team in practice that is as good as our starting team." said McGraw. 
In the end. tlw stn~ngth and 
balance of the Volunteers wew simply too much for tlw Irish. Guard Dnna Ilead led all seor­ers with 12 points, while McGhee, center lhwdra Charles and thre11-point bomber Jody Adams added 11 apiece. Kuhns and junior guard Karen Hobinson were right behind Nowlin in the Irish scoring col­
umn with nine points each. 

Hobinson summ11d up tlw game quite wPII. "We knew they were a great defensive team and we wen~ preparPd for them. but tlw last four minut1~s of the first half really hurt us. We hung pretty well with them, though, and they arn the num­ber one team in the nation 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day ctassifieds is 3 p.m. All class1fieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. includmg spaces.

Classifieds 
NOTICES 

EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER. 233·7009. 
WORDPROCESSING 272-8827 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 
' 
' 
TEXTBOOKS BOUGHT AND SOLD 

PANDORA'S BOOKS CORNER OF N.D. AVE. AND HOWARD 
233·2342 LOTS OF PAPERBACKS IN STOCK! 
TYPING 
PICKUP & DELIVERY 
277·7406 

NEEDED: Ride to Milwaukee 
Fri. Dec. 8. Call Paula 
284-4452. 

"Christmas Concert•• Notre Dame's singing and dancing ensemble, Shenanigans, will be performing their annual Christmas concert Friday. Dec.S, at 7:00 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are free and can be p1cked up at the door. 

LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: $70 FROM TRUSTCORP MACHINE ON 11/18/89. THERE'S A VIDEO TAPE OF THE TRANSACTION. PLEASE RETURN MONEY TO 222 KEENAN HALL. NO QUESTIONS ASKED AND NO FURTHER TROUBLE. 
LOST: MEN'S NO RING ON SUNDAY BETWEEN LAFORTUNE AND STADIUM. REWARD OFFERED. 1522. ........---------------------------·­
Rhinestone bracelet lost at Zahm SYR (11/18/89). If found. please call# 284-4152 
LOST: BLACK TOILETRY BAG WITH 
MY CONTACTS.. CALL DOUG #2341. 

Lost: Cross Fe~ Tip Pen bearing the AT&T logo. It has sentimental Value. If found please call Joe@ x3804. REWARD!! REWARD!! REWARD!!! 
Found: Silver watch before Thanksgiving in Stud Govt office. See secretary on 2nd floor of LaFortune to claim ···-....................-······--.... 
LOST FILM on Miami trip plane 11/26. lfyou found it please ail PeteWatAX16N99T.TEhaDnksl 
r 
ATIENTION: EARN MONEY 
READING BOOKS! $32,000/YEAR .........·-···-······-········-· 
INCOME POTENTIAL. DETAILS. (1) l FOR RENT ~ 
602-838·8885 EXT. BK 6262.. 
DIRECT SALES PROS NEEDED for leading water treatment company.Paid training, salary and/or straight commission. We offer complete corporate benefits, insurance. paid 
vacation. etc. 2 sales per week earns $60K. 1st year income. For interview 
or more information on the 2nd fastest growing business in the world. call Paul Hoogerheide at (616)684-7033 or call Rob Schwartz at 
(616)372·2220. 
······-··-··---··-·--·---·--·-·-·-··· 

RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! 
DAYTOIIA BEACH ·~'f29" 
J NIGHTS 
SOUTH PADilf IILAIID '""'If29. 
S OR 7 NIGHTS 
STEAMBOAT .,.,. lftlf • 
2. S OR 7 NIGHTS 
FDITLAUNIMU ,_lfJ2" 
7 fV/CHTS 
HILTOIIHUIISUMI ,_lf27" 
7 NICHTS 
COIPUS ClllfSTf I 
MllmiiC IIWID .,.,. 'fJ. 
S OR 7 NIGHTS CALL 10LL FREE 10~Y 
t·BDO-J2t·591t 
Ql 
·~Dtnamo on brt# cue~ mDitngth of 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo. Summer,yr.round,AII Countries, All fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52· IN04, Corona Del Mar CA 92625. 
ATTENTION· HIRING! Government jobs. your area. $17,840-$69.485. Call1-602-838-8885, EXT R6262. 
FEDERAL. STATE AND CIVIL SERVICE JOBS! NOW HIRING THIS AREA! $10,271 TO $84,157. 
L--------~­
NEAR N.D. Clean and comfortable apartments: 
• 755 South Bend Ave, efficiency­$225. 1 bedroom-$265. • 607 1/2 E. Corby, 1 bedroom-$295. 
Deposit, references . 616-483·9572. 
MALE/FEMALE HOUSEMATE NEEDED FOR NEXT SEMESTER. OWN BEDROOM. CLOSE TO CAMPUS, HOUSE IN GREAT CONDITION. 120/MO. +UTIL. PLEASE CALL 289-4621. 
CLEAN 3·BDRM HOUSE, 2 BLKS. FROM NO. $475/MO. 232-3972. 
Nice furnished homes for next school year. Close to NO. 277-3097. 



FOR SALE 
RED 4·DOOR 1980 HONDA ACCORD. CALL 3619. 
'86 HONDA ACCORD, 4 DOOR, A/C, AM/FM STEREO TAPE, STICK, 1 OWNER, TOP CONDITION. $6300. 277-2560. 
XMAS AT DISNEY 2 RT airline tix, 58-0rlando 
12/22-12/26, $300 for both Please Call 291-1120 
---·---·---·------------------·-·-·-­'78 TOYOTA COROLLA $1800.287­
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS! CALL 1·315·2062. 733·6062 EXT #F2382H FOR ·---·--·-·-----------·--------·--·--· CURRENT LISTING. For sale: 2 Stones tix for --------..................--·--·-·---Indy concert on 12/6. Call ATTENTION-HIRING' Tim at x1609. GOVERNMENT JOBS · YOUR AREA. $17,840·$69.485. CALL 1-602·838· -·..·--------·-----·--·-------------· 8885. EXT R 6262. Rolling Stones ticket -------------------------------------Dec.6 
$25REWARD Call Ken. Scott, or Dan at #7666 
to the first person who can identify the anti· life IDIOT who ripped down the "PROTEST for LIFE-sign outside tOO% PURE ALPACA WOOL of South Dining Hall last Wednesday. SWEATERS FOR SALE 
CALL: Mike 239· 7596 ALL SIZES GREAT GIFT FOR XMAS CALL 287-3162 AFTER ?PM 


PERSONALS 
ORANGE BOWL FLIGHTS 
CALL 1-800-?DOMERS 
Chicago -$295 Cincinnati -$245 Cleveland -$311 
Dallas · $320 
Denver -$351 
Detroit -$280 
Louisville -$245 
Philadelphia -$270 

New Orleans -$200 
LaGuardia · $31 0 
Boston -$328 
Pittsburgh -$320 
Los Angeles -$440 

CALL 1-800·7DOMERS MOST FLIGHTS 12/29 AND 1/3. SEATS ARE LIMITED. 
--------------------..·----·------·-­Hey Art!! 
The Legend of Sibertron wilt live forever in all our hearts (including Margaret's) 
In response to the Fightin' Fags of room 814 who criticized me for not putting in personals: 
You will all pay-Queen Fag-RJ and THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune MON-THUR 7:30AM to 11 PM 
FRI 7:30AM to 11 PM SAT noon to 6PM SUN noon to 11 PM 
6c Copies-Printing-Binding 
ROOMMATE WANTED-Female 

her two princesses, CP and KG-when (24) seeks non·smoker to share I get you on the dance floor at the PE apartment near ND. Wilt move in with Formal I you or find place together. Colleen 
3503. 

p.s. I don't care how 
good your bedtime stories GET READY!! SUPER COMBO IS are RJ-you may get CP and COMING TO THEODORE'S JB into bed with you, but DEC9. you'll never get me!!! 
Love your pal. the Fag 
Heh Phil Kraker!! Thanks for a wonderful weekend 
Have you hugged your calc professor honey! If you think that was fun. just today? wait until this Friday I 
love ya. ADOPTION, A LOVING Molly ALTERNATIVE. 81 L ALUM WISHES TO ADOPT AN INFANT. LOVING ----..----------------­
HOME, CERTIFIED TO ADOPT. Hello Sunshine and Mary! EXPENSES PAID. CAN BE Uh-hi-yal Don't starve each other to CONFIDENTIAL OR OPEN. IF YOU death and by all means don't walk out OR SOMEONE YOU IS of step! CONSIDERING ADOPTION. CALL Be good and if you can't be good be MIKE & JEAN COLLECT AT 602-482· careful. 
0905. 

ADOPTION -Well-educated couple 
eager to adopt a baby. Cheerful home full of books. Flexible on sharing information with birth mother about child. Our adoption agency can 
provide counseling and references. 
Please call collect 309-827-3135 
eves/wknds for profile/photo. James 
and Hollis. 
HIAG! 

BUFFALO CLUB MEMBERS!!! Sign up for X-mas Bus on Tues. Dec. 5. 6:30·8:30pm in LaFortune Lobby. For info call Tom X3368 or Sue X4179. 
FAMOUS QUOTES BY MEG: 
1. 
I HATE IT WHEN THAT HAPPENS! 

2. 
BURPI .......MARY! 

3. 
GO FIGURE! 

4. 
Aaaalllright! 


5. 
HE'S GOT GORGEOUS EYES! 


HAPPY BELATED 20TH MEG ! WE LOVE YOU! 
FROM BUDDIES AT SMC! 
love ya. Molly 
~----------­
Hello and How do you do? I'm gonna play a little song for you. 
Wak wak a doobie doobie Wak wak a doobie doobie Champagne and whiffleballs 
A beep beep bonk A beep beep bonk Ducklings and shopping malls 
Hi Anne Kenney! What's new? xxOO-l. 
!!!!!!!!!!!HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY!!!!!!!!!!!! 
ESTEVAN HERRERA (BEITER LATE THAN NEVER) LOVE. YOUR FRIEND. CRISTINA 
I NEED AN ENGLISH TUTOR ­INTERMEDIATE AND ADVANCE 
I NEED AN ENGLISH TUTOR ­INTERMEDIATE AND ADVANCE PEDRO# 283·3952 
... SECRET SANTAs··· Buy your roommate. friend or sweetie a holiday bag of goodies for $1. Sold­Dining halts Dec 5,6,7. Delivered Dec. 8th. Support BP and El Campito and help put a smile on a child's face this Christmas!!! 
Do you want someone who idolizes 
you for what you do. or loves you for 
who you are? 
Washington. D.C. Club Bus 
Bus sign-ups, Thursday Dec. 7 
Flanner Pit · 8:00pm 
Price -$95/50 (RV1 way) 
Washington. D. C. Club 
Going toward Dayton, Springfield, Cincinnati or Columbus Friday Dec. 8? We REALLY need a ride!!! Leave Dec. 
B. return Dec. 10. Call Gia at 5271 or Kathy at 5264 at SMC 
Have "MOM" wash your clothes. 
$15/duffle. No dry cleaning. Ironing 
extra. 289·0144 . 
Hey, Prandovich, here's your classified! Remember. "We can do it." 
ARE YOU READY FOR... 
ANTOSTAL 
THE WEEK MAY NOT BE HERE, 
BUT PREPARATIONS ARE 
BEGINNING NOW AND WE NEED _LOGOS FOR THE BOOKLET AND 
TEE SHIRTS. HAVE YOUR ART­
WORK DISPLAYED ALL OVER 
CAMPUS AND WIN CASH PRIZES. 
DROP OFF ENTRIES IN THE S.U.B 
OFFICE BY WED. DEC. 13. 
ADOPTION Doctor & artist, happily married, warm, seek white newborn to love and cherish. Legal. confidential. Please call Hanna & Mark collect (212) 864-5512 



) 
/ 
Monday, December 4, 1989 The Observer 
Harmon 
continued from page 12 
"But it was more lik11 thren to 
four months. I figured I'd never 
play -the doctors wnren't right, 
so I'd never go back them." 
More than once, the steps to 
recovery nearly proved too 
tough for Hannon. 
"About four or five times. I 
wanted to just. go home and 
forget about basketball," he 
said. "Sonwthing kept drawing 
me back. I give my parents and 
God all the eredit." 
!Iarmon worked out with the 
Louisville team last season. as 
the Cardinals reached the NCAA 
regional semifinals befon1 los­
ing S3-69 to Illinois. By the end 
of the year, whether !Iarmon 
r11alized it or not. Cardinals 
coach Dnnny Crurn knew his 
playnr was back in full gear. 
"lie started practicing with us right aftN Christmas," re­called Crum. "We used him against otlwr guys just to get him in shape. By the end of the season. we w11rc wishing he was eligible." 
Harmon now finally is show­ing the rest of the country why he was so lwralded coming out of high school. A major catalyst coming off the berich. the red­shirt sophomore has t!J<Un­mates irnpt·ess!ld with his ver­satility. 
"Jerome is a great player. and any great playnr is going to b11 a plus for us," said Smith. "fie can play two to three posi­tions, hit tlw boards, pass and scow. 
!Iarmon proved all those things against the Irish. just as he has throughout this young season. Thn only thing still sur­prising about Harmon is the fact that he isn't starting. 
"Thn bnst teams wr'vn had in­
~·.~)-11--(;atl~~·~:~~·~~~;~!~o::;-_,l'aC,_(~~~~-~Oll eWJ& 2 &t-iJ 
I 
I Passing the CPA Exam Open House I 
I • Half Price Course DrawingI 
• Job Hunting Guide 

i 
• Refreshments Served 

Wednesday, December 6 5:00p.m. Mongomery Theater -LaFortune Center 

eluded guys who could come off the bench and play as well as the players on the noor." said Crum. "I know I haven't had any player who scored this much off the bench. You say why don't I start him. I don't know. I might someday." 
"fie's as good as anybody on this tnam or any team," said LouisviiiP center Felton Spencer. "lie's a phenomenal talent who always comes out to play." 
llarmon doesn't seem to be particularly upset about his current role coming off the bench. lie received 27 minutes of playing time, shooting 8-of­
.Irish 
continued from page 12 
5 
beat if you want to go to the Final Four." -LaBradford Smith led 
Louisville with 20 points, while , Jerome Harmon chipped in 19 ' off the bench. Cornelius Holden 
• and Everick Sullivan also hit double figures for the Cardinals with 12 and 11 points, respec­
-tively. 
4 
11 from the floor, in Saturday's game. 
"(Crum) just puts me in to add a spark to the team and help out the offense." Harmon said of his job on the team. "It really doesn't bother me. I play just as much as some of the starters." 
Besides, after waiting two full years before his collegiate de­but, sitting on the bench for live or six minutes at the start of a game seems like nothing. "It's been a really long time," said Harmon, remembering his past adversity. "But my time is here. It's really worth the wait." 

Senior forward Keith Robinson recorded 1s-points to lead the Irish in scoring for the second consecutive game. Freshman Monty Williams scored 11 points off the bPnch, and point guard Tim Singleton added 10. 
The Louisville defense shut down Notre Dame co-captains Joe Fredrick and .Iamere Jackson. They combined for just 13 points on 5-of-13 shooting. 
"We were just running the of­fense, and I wasn't moving around enough to get open," Fredrick said. 
Said Phelps, "We really need both of those guys to have good games. When they go 5-for-13, that's not going to win very many games." 
Phelps again used the "White" and "Green" teams in the first half. The "White" squad of Robinson. Paddock, Jackson. Fredrick and Singleton started 



Indiana 
continued from page 12 
or tie the game at the end, but Sean Woods missed an 18-foot jump shot at the buzzer with Indiana's Jamal Meeks provid­ing blanket coverage. 
"We told Sean to penetrate, 
and believe it or not, we would 
have taken a three if we could" 
page 9 

and played the Cardinal starters to an 8-8 tie for the first six minutes. 
The "Green" team of 
Williams, Daimon Sweet, Elmer 
Bennett, Keith Tower and Kevin 
Ellery played the next five min­
utes and helped the Irish get a 
17-15 lead. Ellery scored five 
points during that run. 
Louisville bounced back to take a 33-28 advantage, with Smith connecting on a three­pointer and a baseline jumper. Notre Dame scored the last three points of the half on a free throw by Ellery and a 20­foot jumper by Fredrick to trail just 34-33 at the intermission. 
'The first half, we seemed a step behind wherever we were," said Louisville coach Denny Crum, whose team played in the Maui Classic at Hawaii last weekend. "Their defense had something to do with that." 
The Irish stayed close early in the second half. A jumper. by .Fredrick with 16:49 to play gave Notre Dame a 41-38 lead. The Cardinals scored six straight points to take the lead, but two free throws from Jackson cut the advantage to 48-46 at the 13:37 mark. 
Louisville took a 56-50 lead on another jumper from Smith, but baskets by Bennett and Williams shrank that margin to 56-52. The Irish cut the lead to 58-56 on a driving layup by Bennett and still had a chance at 64~61 ~ith 7:35 to play. 
said Pitino. "He got off as good a shot as vou want. 
While Indiana won the game, Kentucky won loads of respect from the 40,128 fans at the Indianapolis Hoosier Dome. The Wildcats went through a hellish off-season in which they received a two-year probation sentence from the NCAA and watched the departure of 1988­89 starters LeRon Ellis, Chris 
%1hlliiai.n&Ji,~Jl1.yji'A.c 

. (. 

The Observer Monday, December 4, 1989page 10 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Observer sports staff will hold a sportswriters' meet­ing Monday at 7:30p.m. in the Observer office located on tlw third floor of LaFortune Student Center. 
NVA basketball referees will me1~t at !i p.m. Wedrwsday, Dee.6 
NO wrestling team finished seventh at the Las Vegas Invitational over the weekend. Complet1~ details will appear in Tuesday's Observer. 
Irish Outdoors will have a semester planning meeting at 7 
p.m. Tuesday, Dec. 5, in Theodores. Spring bmak ski trip will be discussed. Call 271-9901 for morn information. 
lnterhall football ~~quipment return will take placP Monday, Dec. 4. Call the NVA for specific return times. 


Bears' woes continue 
Madson sets record in Irish sweep 
By KEN TYSIAC Sports Writer 

Senior goaltender Lance Madson broke the Notre Dame record for career victories last wnekend at the Joyce ACC as the Irish hockey team swept two games from Mankato State. 
Madson shattered the victory mark in style on Friday night. stopping 38 shots in a 5-0 shutout for his 47th career win. Madson also performed well on Saturday night in a 5-3 triumph over the Mavericks as the Irish boostl~d their record to 10-2 on the season. 
But Madson, who holds sev­eral other Irish records, induct­ing saves in a season and saves in a career, was quick to credit his teammates for their part in the shutout. 
'Everyone was really pulling for the shutout," said Madson, "And that made me feel pretty good. The defense tonight was just incn~dible." 
Sophomore center Pat Arendt provided all the support Madson needed at the 8:06 mark of the first period when he took a pass from senior Bruce Guay, wheeled in front of Maverick goalie Glen Prodahl, and slid the puck into the lower right hand corner. 
Lou Zadra, Dan Marvin, Curtis Janicke and Tim Kuehl went on to score goals for the Irish in what was a very physi­cal hockey game. Madson bore the brunt of some Mankato State frustrations. as the Mavericks chargnd the net with authority looking for rebounds. 
On one play late in the second period. Irish ddenseman Dan Sawyer thought Maverick for­ward Mike Finnerty charged the net a little bit too hard. The two players exchanged words, and then Sawyer dropped his gloves and knocked Finnerty to the ice. 
"Thev had been taking shots at Lance after the whistle all night long," said Sawyer, a 5­11, 205 pound freshman, "On that particular play it was re­ally blatant. I took him (Finnerty) into the corner, and I didn't like what he had to say. We had to make an example out of him." 
Sawyer received a four-minute double minor penalty, while Finnerty only was penal­izcd for two minutes. On the ensuing Maverick power play, Madson was tested several times from in dose, but he was equal to the task, and managed to keep the puck out of the net. 
The physical play continued into the following night, when Mankato State scored first on a long slapshot by Paul Gherardi that seemed to fool Madson as it rattled off the post and into the net when the game was just over a minute old. The Mavericks were able to keep the Irish in cheek until midway through the period, when Curtis Janicke knocked the puck away from a defender right in front of the Mankato State net and sophomore Mike Curry smacked it into the goal. 
Dave Bankoske scored on a breakaway at the 14:15 mark to give the Irish the lead going into the dressing room. Sawyer made it 3-1 with a wild slapshot from the left point on a power play which hit the upper right hand corner above goalie J.P. Piche's shoulder at the 4:40 mark of the second period. 
But the Mavericks refusea to 
quit. Just .31 seconds later 
freshman Paul Gertf'n tipped a 
shot past Madson from in close 
to narrow the Irish lead to one 
goal. Mankato State continued 
to put the pressure on Madson 
throughout the second period, 
as Notre Dame had trouble 
moving the puck out of its own 
end. 

Then the Mavericks gave the game away. With 3:36 remain­ing in the second period, a Mankato State defender made an errant pass from behind the net right onto Pat Arendt's stick. Arendt backhanded the puck past Piche to give the Irish a 4-2 lead going into the third . period, and the Irish were on their way to their fourth straight victory. 
Senior defenseman Kevin Markovitz really stood out for the Irish on a weekend when most of the accolades were heaped upon Madson. Markovitz totaled four assists in the two games. lie show­cased his passing and puck handling skills on a goal in the second period of Friday night's game, when he eluded a de­fender at the blue line, skated in from the point, and slid a perfect pass to Curits Janicke, who tipped the puck .past Prodahl. 
"That's what coach Schafer likes me to do," said Markovitz. "lie likes me to bring the puck out of the zone. I'm not looking for big hits out there. I'm just looking to move the puck." 
This weekend the Irish meet Ferris State in a home-and­home series. Schafer's squad will travel to Ferris State on l'riday and then meet the Bulldogs at the Joyce ACC at 
7:30 on Saturday evening. 

Saint Mary's defends tourney title 
By HEATHER ATKINSON SMC Sports Editor 
Tlw Saint Mary's basketball team was able to defend its title again this year at the annual Houndball Classic. 
On Friday, the Belles played what head coach Marvin Wood calls the team's best offensive and defensive game of the sea­son. In the first round of the Classic, Saint Mary's defeated Mundelein College 94-74. That was the Belles' highest point output thus far. 
Senior .Julie Hadke turned in an outstanding game, leading the team's scoring with 25 points and contributing six as­sists. Two other players were in double ligures -sophomores .Janet Libbing and Catherine Hestovich, both with 13 points each. Libbing also lead the team in rebounds with nine. 
"We accomplished a lot of things that we wanted to," said Wood. "We've come along really well so far this season." 
The championship game against Bethel provided a more intense competition for the Bfllles. Bethel took a 16-8 lead early in the game and held onto that until the last seven minutes of the first half when Saint Mary's went on a 15-0 spurt. The Belles went into the half with a :n -24 lead. 
During the second half the Belles were able to maintain th!lir position. They dominat1~d
t 
WE'D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENf OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITIITION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
THE CX)NSTITIITION 
·n,c words wt li,·c ~· I"' ..,, ... , .,_..
\\, ..,. ""' 
/ 
with a 14-point advantag<~ at one point in the game, but Bethel rallied near the end of the half to elpse the gap. The final was 73-67. 
The scoring in the final round was very balanced with 11 dif­ferent players conWbuting to the Belles victory. ;:l¥+tdke was again the top scorP,·f with 12 points followed by Dawn Brohman and Hestovich with 1 0 points each. Senior Amy Baranko dominated the boards, pulling down 11 rebounds. 
"Overall, it was a very good tournament," said Wood. "We've changed our style of play and the girls have adjusted well." 

The Main Laundromat 
1518 North Main Street Mishawaka 

259-6322 
Hours: 730 a.m.· 9:00p.m. -7 days a week 
WA§HE!R§ ONlV 85¢ 
Tuesday: FREE Tide in every wash Wednesday: Drop-off · 40¢ per pound Thursday: Tanning -$3.00 per session 
Pick-up. wash. dry. fold. deliver 
SAME DAY SERVICE 
Happy 21st 
JIM OWENS 
Love, Mom, Dave, Marcee, and Rob 






with loss to Minnesota 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -Wade 
Wilson  threw  two  scoring tiebreaker edge over the  
passes  and  the  Minnesota Packers based on a better divi­ 
Vikings  had  their  first  long sion record.  

touchdown drives in three weeks in a 27-16 victory Sunday night that severely damaged the Chicago Bears' hopes for a sixth straight NFC Central crown. 
Chicago (6-7) is below .500 for the first time since the next­to-last week of 198:~. the last season it missed the playoffs. The Bears, who have lost three straight and arc 2-7 after a 4-0 start. last had a losing season in 1982, when they w1~nt 3-6 in Coach Mike Ditka's first year. 
Minnesota (8-5) snapped a two-game losing streak to stay tied with Gre~n Bay atop the di­
vrsum. The Vikings hold a 
Chicago's Kevin Butler brokn an NFL record when lw kicked his 24th consecutive field goal. a 33-yarder in the first period. llis next attempt was bloekl'd. 
Minnesota has had troubll' scoring touchdowns most of the season and, in consncutivl' one.point losses had no suc­cessful drives. 
Its last long march had bnnn a 13-play, 76-yard n!Tort that capped a 24-10 victory over Tampa Bay on Nov. 12. Tlw previous wenk, the Vikings nendnd seven Hieh Karlis field goals and a safety to beat the Los Angeles Hams. 


T H E • E X T R A 0 R D I N A R Y • F L 0 R A L • C 0 . 
Fresh Flowers 
Blooming & 
Adivision m Green Plants 
Michael Angelo Bemacchi Corp.
Gifts 


Balloons 

Order Your Holiday Dance Flowers Here! 
10°/o Discount with Student ID 
ZS6-7Z77AU.MAJOR 
CREDIT CARDS 

• 
ACCEPTED 
i..... 
....1 
703 West Edison Rd., Mishawaka (1 block West of Grape Rd.) Hours: Mon. -Fri. 9 to 6, Sat. 9 to 5 


WE DELWER DAILY 
~ 
I 
I
Monday, December 4, 1989 
The Observer page 11 
-

LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Monday, December 4 
4 p.m. "Art to Enchant, Musical Magic and its Practi­tioners in English Renaissance Drama," a lecture by Linda Phyllis Austern from the Program of Liberal Studies in Room 124 in Crowley Hall of Music. 
4:30 p.m. Lecture, "Some Stoichiometric Properties of Planktonic Food Webs," Dr. Robert Sterner, Department of Biology, University of Texas at Arlington. Galvin Audi­torium. Sponsored by Biological Sciences. 
5 p.m. Lecture, "Radicalism of 1789," Ran Halevi, Visit­ing Professor, Grinnell College. Galvin Auditorium. Spon­sored by the Department of History. 
CAMPUS Monday, December 
7:30 p.m. Reading from his own works, Barry Lopez, award-winning author and currently Visiting Welch Pro­fessor of American Studies. Main Auditorium, Center for Continuing Education. Sponsored by the Center for Con­tinuing Education and the Department of American Stud­ies. 

MENUS 

Notre Dame 
BBQ Ribs Baked Cajun Cod Hot Pastrami Sandwich Vineyard Veg w/ Cheese 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 



WILBUR AND WENDEL JAY HOSLER 
"Hang him, you idiots! Hang him! 'String him up' is a figure of speech!" 
28 Fiend 31 Injure 32 Puccini 
products 34 Life story, for 
short 37 Rarely 40 N.F.L. 
six-pointers 41 Snack-bar drink 42 Chaplin's widow 43 Desert delights 44 Mortal 45 Prompter's 
activity 48 Purse the lips 50 Superficial 
treatment 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

CROSSWORD 57 Pompey's 53 
58 Perfect model 59 Pate de-~ gras 
60 Solar disc 
61 Londoner's small change 
62 Forearm bone 63 Antitoxins 
64 Curl the lip 
65 Aug. 1 babies, e.g. 
DOWN 

1-von Bismarck 2 Forsaken 3-theRed 4 In the indefinite future 5 French river 6 Mountain nymph 7 Clock lace 
ACROSS 
1 Corrida cheers 5 Regarding 
manner or form 10 Luxurious 14 Corrida animal 15 Get up 16 What "video" 
means 17 Lop off 18 S.A. lasso 19 Arise from 20 Rarely 23-theline 
(conformed) 24 Spoofing session 25 Unadorned 


8 Italian wine center 25 Unit of 35 Hebrides isle 9 Book part illumination 36 -even keel 26 Debark 
38 Adult insect 10 Detroit N.B.A. 
27 Circle segments 

player 39 "You said a
281.o.u.'s 11 Ancient port of -~!" 
29-Stanley

Rome 43-million (a 
Gardner 

rarity)12 Appears 30 Tennyson poem 44 Embrace
13 City in Calif. 32 Cape Horn natives 
45 Soft drinks 21 Charged particle 
33Wan 46Wed 22 Notched 34 Cannon sound 47 More frigid 
48 "Peyton-" 49 Edmonton 
N.H.L. player 51 Bigwigs 52 Adam's abode 53 Painter Magritte 54 Enameled ware 55 Typesetting 
machine, lor short 56 Affirmative votes 





-







Sports
page 12 Monday, December 4, 1989 


Domination on the boards keys 84-73 Cardinal win 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
INI>IANAPOI.IS -Notre Damn men's basketball coach Digger Phelps knew all along that l.ouisvill11 eould hurt his tnam on thn offnnsive boards. 
It turrwd out that th11 Cardi­nals destroyed the Irish in that category. 
Louisville pulled down 16 of­flmsive rPbounds and seored 19 second-ehancn points en route to an 84-73 victory over Notre Dame befom 40,128 fans at the Hoosier Dome in the Big Four Classic. 
"Corning into the gamn we were eoncnrrwd about their of­fnnsive rebounding capabili­ties," Phelps said. "You can't givn a tnam 16 offensive re­bounds and expect to beat them. That's where they punish you. It's just finding your man, maintaining contact and making sure they don't get the ball. That we couldn't rebound 


Harmon now in spotlight after big game off bench 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 
INDIANAPOLIS -Wlwn you look at the l.ouisvilln rostnr, a fnw nanws quickly jump to mind: Fnlton Spnncnr for his 7­foot. 250-pound frame, LaBradford Smith for his ver­satilt~ talPnt and Tony Kimbro for tlw amount of tim£' he's sp1~nt with tlw Cardinals. 
.lnronw Harmon, a 6-4 n~­SPrVP guard from Gary, Ind., isn't llllP of thn first names rnnntionPd wlwn discussing the Louisvilln tPam. But it may be timn rollPge basketball fans change thPir habits. 
Harmon, after two years of inartivily, is aVPraging a tnam­high 20 points per game so far in this young season. After watehing Harmon score 19 against thnrn Saturday in the Cardinals' 84-73 Big Four Classic win ovnr Notre lhtme, tlw Irish admittnd they didn't know too much about him. 
"I hadn't really !ward that 


Ware wins Heisman in close race 
Notre Dame's Tony Rice finishes fourth in balloting 
By THERESA KELLY 
Sports Editor 
NEW YOHK-Andre Ware, the University of Houston's record-breaking quarterback, won the 55th Annual Heisman Trophy, awarded by the Downtown Athletic Club in New York City. 
A favorite late in the voting, Ware edged Indiana running back Anthony Thompson by 70 points, the fourth closest lleisman race ever. West Virginia's Major Harris was third in the balloting with 709 points, and fellow quarterback Tony Rice of Notre Dame fin­ished fourth with 523. 
Rice was an early favorite, but 83% of the voters withheld their decisions until the last week of balloting, during which Hice's Irish team lost to Miami and Thompson and the Hoosiers lost to Purdue. 
"Some people said I'd have 

'80s Heisman Trophy Winners 
1989 Andre Ware, Houston, QB 

1988 Barry Sanders, Oklahoma State, RB 1967 Tim Brown, Notre Dame, WR 1986 Vinny Testaverde, Miami, Fla., QB 1985 Bo Jackson, Auburn, TB 1984 Doug 'flutie, Boston College, QB 1983 Mike Rozier, Nebraska, TB 1982 Herschel Walker, Georgia, HB 1981 Marcus Allen, Southern Cal., TB 1980 George Rogers, S. Carolina, HB 
crushed us in the second half." 
Said Louisville center Felton Spencer, "We work on it (offensive rebounding) a lot ­getting rebounds, screening people off and getting rebounds off of missed free throws. Today we wern able to get some baskets inside on free throws and put some missed shots back in the bucket." 
Despite being outplayed on the boards, the Irish stayed close, but the Cardinals (3-1) exploded for a 12-0 run mid­way through the second half that upped their lead from 64­61 to 76-61 and virtually assured Notre Dame of its first loss of the season. 
"I think they're a well­rounded team," Notre Dame center Scott Paddock said. "They're quick, physical up front, good outside shooters and good rebounders. That's the kind of team you have to 
see IRISH I page 9 
much about him, but he's a good player," said Notre Dame forward Keith Hobinson. "He can hurt you driving and shooting the pull-up jumper. It's hard to rush out and play him on defense." 
You couldn't blame Robinson for not knowing much about Harmon. During the past two years, Harmon had not done too much to get himself recog­nized . 
A MrDonald's All-American while at Lew Wallace High in Gary, Harmon was a Proposition 48 casualty his freshman season. After slipping on his back during the ofT-sea­son, Harmon underwent surgery to have a ruptured disk removed in Snpt1~mber 1988. lie was redshirtl~d and spent his entire sophomore year in rnha­bilitation. 
"The doctors told me it would bn six to eight weeks," Harmon said of thn rneovery procnss. 
see HARMON I page 9 




IU hangs on for 71-69 win against Cats 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 
INDIANAPOLIS Eitht~ r Indiana is a little too irwxperi­eneed to merit its No. 14 na­tional ranking, or Kenturky is a lot bntter team than anybody expectnd bnfore the season. 
Whatl~ver the case, tlw Hoosiers had to light for tlwir lives Saturday bdore holding off tlw pnsky Wildcats 71-69 in the second game of tlw third annual Big Four Classic. 
"I don't think I've evPr bnPn prouder of a basketball team." said nnw Knntueky coach Hick Pitino, whose team fell to 1-1 after an earlier lackluster vic­tory oVPr Ohio. ''That's as good a game as I think this team is capable of playing." 
Kentucky had a chancn to win 
see INDIANA I page 9 

No. 1 Tennessee too much for Irish 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Sports Writer 
The top-ranknd Tennessee Volunteers simp:y had too much firepower fur the Notre Dame women's basketball team on Sunday as they shot down the Irish at the Joyce ACC by a score of 77-54. 
For a good portion of the first half. however, it ap­peared as if Notre Dame could possibly upset the Vol­unteers at home in front of a crowd of 2,764. After Ten­nessee shot out to an 8-0 lead, the Irish decided to prove that they could play with the number one team in the country. They pulled within one at 13-12 with 
11:37 remaining in the half when senior Lisa Kuhns con­verted an offensive rebound after a Comalita llaysbert miss. 
But the Volunteers pulled away again, as 6-3 junior center Carla McGhe1~. who finished with 11 points, scored 5 in a 10-4 run which gave Tennnssee a 23-16 !Pad. Again the Irish elawed back, and when junior forward Krissi Davis converted the front nnd of a one-and-one after being railroaded by Tennessee's Tonya Edwards while trying to set a piek, the score was 25-23 with 3:52 left in the half. 
At that point, a question­able call took the wind out of Notre Dame's sails. After McGhee hit a hook shot in the lane, Davis took a pass right in front of the basket, squared, and banked home a layup. The whistle blew, and it appeared as if the basket would stand and Davis would have a chance to complete the three-point play. 
see VOLS 1page 8 won here if we could've won against Miami," Rice said. "This award is not based on winning games. I'm really just proud to be here." 

"At first I though Rice had it wrapped up," candidate Dee Dowis of Air Force said. "But when they got beat last week, all the attention shifted toward Ware." 
Three points were awarded 
for a first-place vote, two for second and one for third from among the 7 43 Heisman votes cast. 
"I want to thank my team­mates for playing their hearts out," Ware said from Houston after the award was an­nounced. "We've overcome a lot as a football team. I'm accept-
see WARE I page 8 



