First-rate day 
Partly sunny and mild
I~A~C=C=E=N=T=:=R=o=m=e='s==n=ig=h=tl=ife========~~~~~~ lQI~' Thursday, highs near 45. A 30 percent chance of snow 
showers Friday, with temper­
ISPECIAL: 1988 Football Section . l.A._J 
atures in the upper 20s. 
~DI'ME 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 1989VOL. XXII, NO. 68 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


National Champions! 
Holtz puts Irish over the top Team, Holtz in '88 with 8th national title greeted at By MARTY STRASEN Hurricanes 31-30 on Oct. 15, White House 
Sports Editor received the remaining 1 lt2 
Associated Press

votes. TEMPE, Ariz.--Someone "This football team is what 
WASHINGTON--Presidentonce told Lou Holtz that Notre Notre Dame spirit is all about," Reagan met with the champi­Dame is supposed to be on top Holtz said. "There may be onship Notre Dame footballwhen it comes to football. more talented teams, but there team Wednesday in one of the Now, three years after taking won't be any that typify the last public events of his eightover as head coach of the Fight­Notre Dame spirit better than years in the White House. 

ing Irish, Holtz has put them this one." 
"The INF treaty and George there. In addition to beating Miami Bush's election were impor­"It's important for Notre when it was No. 1, Notre Dame tant, but having the FightingDame to be on top, and I say beat Southern Cal 27-10 when Irish win the national champi­that because that's what some­the Trojans were No. 2 and onship is in a class by itself," body told me," Holtz said after West Virginia when the Moun­Reagan said. In return forNotre Dame's 34-21 drubbing of taineers were No.3 coming into the sentimental tribute Reagan West Virginia in the Sunkist the Fiesta Bowl. The Irish received a sweater once pre­Fiesta Bowl gave the Irish their opened the 1988 season with a sented to--who else? --Georgeeighth national championship. 19-17 triumph over Michigan, Gipp.

"There are just some people which finished the season Reagan, whose role as Notrewho are supposed to be on top, ranked fourth. 
Dame star Gipp in the movieand people get the impression "I'm so happy for our "Knute Rockne, All­that Notre Dame should be players," Holtz said. "It's American" gave him his firstgood," Holtz continued. "This really a dream to win the na­big break in the movie careeris an outstanding football tional championship. I dreamt that helped propel him to theteam." about winning it, but I never presidency, told the players: The Fighting Irish are back thought I'd be a part of some­"I can't help thinking thaton top, even though many said thing like this as a head coac­somewhere a long way offthis team was a year away h." 

there's a fellow with a big grin from a shot at the national Holtz joins the list of Irish and a lot of pride in his school, championship. coaches that includes Knute and he might be thinking toThe 1988 Irish completed the Rockne, Elmer Layden, Frank himself that maybe you wonfirst 12-0 season in Notre Dame Leahy, Ara Parseghian and another one for the Gipper." 

history and were nearly a unan­Dan Devine--all winners of na­The line was a paraphrase of imous choice as national cham­tional titles at Notre Dame. 
one spoken by Pat O'Brien aspions. Notre Dame received 58 For the seniors, being No. 1 Rockne in the movie, invoking 112 votes out of a possible 60 in marks the end of a long climb the memory of Gipp after histhe Associated Press poll. from the days of Gerry Faust, death to inspire the team to vic-Miami, which lost its No. 1 

see CHAMPS, page 8
ranking when the Irish beat the see REAGAN, page 8 
ND junior struck by car and killed 
By REGIS COCCIA The driver of the car, Senior Staff Reporter Deborah Gomes, 23, of South Easton was charged with two 
Celebrations after the Fiesta counts of vehicular homicide, Bowl turned to grief Jan. 2 when Hurley said. Gomes, who knew a Notre Dame junior and his both Macrina and Charis, was friend died after they were hit not under the influence of alco­by a car outside their homes in hol, he said. South Easton, Mass. A police officer estimated 
Richard Macrina, a Grace Gomes was going about 45 Hall junior finance major and miles per hour, the speed limit Donald Charis, both 20, were on the unlighted street, Hurley killed crossing the street be­said. The case has not gone to tween their houses when a car court yet, he said. hit them at about 8:30 p.m., A double funeral was held Easton Deputy Police Chief Friday, Jan. 6 for Macrina and Kenneth Hurley said. Charis, who were longtime 
They had been watching the friends, Hurley said. They Notre Dame-West Virginia were buried beside each other. football game on television at A funeral Mass was con­Macrina's house, he said. celebrated at Macrina's 
Macrina was taken by am­parish, Holy Cross Church, by bulance to Goddard Memorial Grace Hall Rector Father Hospital and Charis was taken Gerald Lardner and Father to Cardinal Cushing General Wilfred Borden, chaplain of the Hospital. Both were pronounced dead on arrival. 
see MACRINA, page 4 




APPhoto of the White House. Behind Reagan is Irish head coach Lou Holtz. Reagan invited the national football champions to the White House. (Story, above right) 
Thursday, January 19, 1989

page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN

IN BRIEF 
South African President Botha suffered a stroke at home Wednesday, but was "clear-minded" and might ap­point a Cabinet member as acting president, his office said. Botha, who turned 73 on Jan. 12, was in stable con­dition at No. 2 Military Hospital in the Cape Town suburb of Wynberg after suffering a mild stroke, his office said. According to South Africa's Constitution, the president can appoint a Cabinet minister to fill in for him tempo­rarily. If the president is incapacitated, the Cabinet can elect one of its members as acting president. Botha has refused to comment on his possible retirement.-Associ­ated Press 
Contracts have been awarded for the repaving of 
U.S. Route 31 from south of the South Bend bypass to Lakeville, and also for the "Michigan Strip," the section of U.S. Route 33 from 1.5 miles north of the St. Joseph River bridge to the Indiana-Michigan border. Signal modernization on McKinley A venue from Logan Street to Division Street is also planned for the spring and summer of 1989. -The Observer 
Two S':'per Bowl tickets and some Watergate memorabilia, but not the cash that was stolen from his car, were returned to North Carolina Secretary of State Rufus Edmisten. Edmisten considers the tickets and memorabilia to be far more valuable than the money. Someone entered Edmisten's unlocked, state-owned Chev­rolet in Raleigh Saturday and stole a briefcase, a raincoat and $500 to $700. Edmisten reported the theft to police. But on Monday morning, Edmisten found that all the items except the money had been placed in the back seat of his :royota in front of h~ house. "The only thing I can figure lS someone looked m there and said, 'Oh my God it's Rufus'-I'd better give this back to him. But I need the money,"' Edmisten said. "I fully expected I would never hear of this briefcase again," Edmisten said. "I was heartbroken about the briefcase."-Associated Press 
OF INTEREST 
WVFI will hold its shift pick meeting today at 7 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center. Atten­dance is required for all full-time and sub-status DJ's. -The Observer 
Juniors Office hours for Junior Parents' Weekend will be Monday through Friday, 7-9 p.m. in room 305 LaFor­tune. Phone 239-6028 for more information. -The Observer 
NDE 4th Day will meet today at 9 p.m. in the Lower 
Lounge, Walsh Hall. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 

Delign EdiiOt" ......... Chris Labaree Accent Deligner.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mike Conway Deaign Aamlanl . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Beth Peterson Typill . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...... Will Zamer ........................................... Alison Cocks ........................................ Diane Bradley .................................... Bernadette Shilts ND Day EdiiOt" ..... Margaret McCloskey La11oul Slaff..................... Laura Stanton SMC Da11 Edilor ............... Maura Reidy ....................................... Karen Newlove A<II Deoigner .................... Molly Killen .................................... Annette Rowland .......................................... Jeff Stelmach Typeoellen . . . . . . Bernard Brenninltmeyer .......................................... Anne Kenney ........................................... Andy Schlidt .......................................... Megan Keane New• Edilor................ ...... Sara Marley ............................................... Chris Nee COPJI EdiiOt" ................. Chriatine Walsh Foolball Special .................. Pete Gegen Sporla COPJI EdiiOt"........... . Greg Guffey ......................................... Theresa Kelly Vie1Dpoinl Deaign ............... Laura Manzi ...................................... Steve Megargee Accent EdiiOt" ............. Triaha Chambers .............................................. Pete Skiko Accenl Copy Editor.. Michelle Berninger ......................................... Marty Strasen 
De '*'"-(USPS S99 2-4000) is publiabcd Monday throuah Friday cxccpe c1uriJ11 cum and vKation periods. n.a.en. is publisbed by tbe students of the Univcnity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoiJeae. Subscriptiom may be purc:bu­ed for $40 per year (US per semester) by writina n.'*'"-·P.O. Box Q. Notre O..C, llllliaaa 46SS6. 
n.o...--is a member of n. ~--rn.. All reproduction riahts arc 

Irish, Bush both No. 1 in year of transition 
The year 1988 is over--finally. The new year, 1989, is a year of transition. 

Matt

<?ne transition became evident in Tempe, Anzona, on a cloudy day in early January. The GallagherNotre Dame football team is back where it belongs--on the top of the heap in the world of Assistant News Editor collegiate football. Notre Dame won its first national championship in eleven years, largely through the work of Coach Lou Holtz. Notre Dame will most likely be the pre-season favor­ite to repeat as national champions in the 1989 football season. 
Wednesday's meeting at the White House be­tween the football team and President Ronald Reagan foreshadows another important transi­tion taking place in 1989. On Friday afternoon George Bush will be sworn in as the forty-first president of the United States, signaling the end of Reagan's eight-year tenure in that office. 
The team's visit Wednesday with Reagan is a fitting conclusion to the Reagan years. Since 1981, when he visited Notre Dame with actor Pat O'Brien to receive an honorary degree, Reagan has been closely tied to the University. These ties were most evident during Reagan's campus visit last March, to witness ceremonies statesmen as James Baker (chief-of-staff, Trea­dedicating a stamp to Knute Rockne. sury secretary, and now secretary-of-state­
George Bush is not Ronald Reagan. When he designee), to clowns such as James Watt takes office on Friday, Bush will be facing the (Interior). Bush's choices for Cabinet positions awesome task of leading America into the 1990s. have been for the most part long-time Wash­Indeed, in a sense the 1990s are already upon ington veterans such as Baker, John Tower us, for the 1980s were most certainly the Reagan (Defense), and Jack Kemp (HUD). Bush's ap­decade. pointees signal that the Bush years will be far 
The Reagan years were an exiciting time. different from the Reagan years. It is no longer For the first time since Franklin Delano a case of outsiders coming in to clean up big Roosevelt was elected to halt the Great Depres­government; instead, Washington insiders will sion, the people chose in 1980 to lead America be taking over to run the bureaucracy and keep in a new direction. Reagan was delivered a the government on a steady helm. mandate in 1980, and again in 1984, to remove George Bush on Friday will become president the central role of big government in citizens' of a country which lacks the clear direction it lives; Reagan's conservativism was right for had in 1980. He received no mandate. Instead, the time. Bush faces the looming problems of a massive 
Bush is not the great communicator that budget defict, a Congress with its own agenda, 
Reagan was. As he proved well during the cam­and a decaying industrial base. paign, Bush does not convey the warm, It is good that the Reagan years are over. grandfatherly image that his predecessor used Although they were good years, and Ronald to his advantage. Bush is not a televison pres­Reagan was generally a good president, he is ident. Bush is instead a "behind-the-scenes" not the president America needs for the 1990s. operator, used to working with the bureaucracy George Bush is that president. It is ironic that of which he himself had so long been a part. Bush's fall opponent, Massachusetts Gov. Mi­
Bush is not the ideologue that Reagan was. chael Dukakis, brought to light the one charac­Reagan's Cabinet appointees were selected teristic that George Bush possesses and will primarily for their conservative political views, need for his term to be sucessful. Although he ignoring their experience in policy areas. As a was refering to himself, Dukakis's words apply 
result, the nation had Cabinet officials who to Bush as well as himself. The Bush years will varied widely in quality, from such skilled be a matter of "competence, not ideology." 
...................H~·;;;;~·&i;;~~;.................. II Observer classifieds will be accepted from 
Today is Laura S.'s birthday. Call her up g M F .
II 
and wish her a happy one. By the way am-3pm -at the Observer Offices, 314 
Laura,we do expect to see you dancing LaF rt 
on pool tables tonight. 0 u n e. 

$25,000 SCHOLARSHIPS: THE FAST TRACK TO SUCCESS. 
Two-year NROTC scholarships offer tuition and other financial benefits 
wonh as much as $25,000 to qualified college sophomores. 
All these benefits are provided for one purpose: to educate and train qualified young men and women to serve as conunissioned officers in the Navy. 
The Navy pays for tuition, textbooks, instructional fees, and gives you an allowance of$100 a month for up to 20 months during your last two years ofcollege. Upon graduation and completion ofrequirements, you'll become an important part ofthe Navy adventure as aNavy officer. 
Call your Navy representative for more infonnation on this challenging and rewarding program. For more information call Lieutenant Commander Tim Vieand 
at 
or the ROTC the ROTC building. 
You are'IOmorrow. You are the Navy. 
¥ 


-
.. 
Thursday, January 19, 1989 
The Observer page 3 

*7 nights luxurious lodging at the Sunchase Resort Condominiums *Round Trip Air (via chartered jet) Transportation 
*Welcome parties 
*Windsurfing or Hobie cat sailing or 
*Trimaran sailing 
INFORMATIONAL/SIGN UP MEETING 
TONIGHT LaFortune Montgomery Theatre 1st Floor LaFortune 
all Bob 283-1521 

•



$44. 7M given 1n cash grants 
Special to the Observer This is the third consecutive 
year that cash contributions 
Notre Dame's Department of have exceeded $40 million, al­Development raised $44.7 mil­most doubling the level of four lion in cash contributions--third years ago. The totals do not in­highest total in the University's clude pledges of future gifts. history--during fiscal 1988. In specific contributing 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 4 8:00 PM MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
All seats reserved $15.50 Tickets available at the Civic Auditorium Box Office, Night Winds, Record Connection, and the usual outlets. 
categories, foundation and cor­porate support totaled a record $20.7 million, a 27 percent in­crease; the University's An­nual Fund attracted $6.9 mil­lion, a 6 percent increase and a fourth consecutive record total for the fund; direct mail yielded a record $2.5 million, an 8.4 percent increase; and planned giving totaled $4.9 mil­lion. The University's Sorin So­ciety, whose members each contribute a minimum of $1,000 annually in urestricted funds, achieved its eighth consecutive increase in both membership and revenues. With a record 634 new members among its total of 2,900, the Society contributed 
-$2.7 million, a 15 percent in­crease. 
Also in fiscal 1988, commit­ments to the University's "Strategic Moment" fund raising campaign reached $289 million, 96 percent of the cam­paign's original goal of $300 million. That goal has since been met, but due to under­funded and new priorities, an additional $117 million is being sought as the campaign enters its national phase in 1989. 

Officials baffled by phone problem 
power surge which inter­
Observer Staff Report 
rupted service last Novem­The campus 283-exchange ber, said Ellis. 
telephone network was in­operative for about 15 "They don't know exactly minutes on Wednesday af­what the problem is," said 
ternoon, said Manager of Ellis. "It's a big computer Telecommunications Steve ... there are so many vari­Ellis. ables involved, to test them The interruption in service all would be impossible." was a software problem, The telephone system was possibly leftover from the examined Wednesday by 
The Observer I Mike Moran

Holtz's new recruit? 
This young Irish fan donned his football gear and braved the heat inside the Phoenix Civic Plaza for the New Year's Day Fiesta Bowl pep rally. The band arrived late, but the guest speakers and the Notre Dame cheerleaders kept the spirit going. 
three repairmen from AT&T, said Ellis. The Uni­versity owns the 283­extension, serving primarily student dormitories, but the system is covered by a main­tenance agreement with AT&T. 
Ellis added that mainte­nance checks temporarily disabled various lines throughout the afternoon. 

page 4 


Macrina 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame hockey team. 
"The church was packed. There was a line two blocks long at the wake the night before. There were a number of Notre Dame students there," Lardner said. 
Lardner said John Goldrick, associate vice president for residence life, asked him to represent the University at the funeral. 
Craig Bougas, Sal Castellano and Chris Chiacchierini, three of Macrina's former room­mates, served as pallbearers during the funeral. 
"(Macrina) was a little on the quiet side but well-liked, low-profile but not shy or reticent," he said. Macrina was a Dean's List student at Notre Dame and he had recently joined Grace's inter­hall hockey team, Lardner said. 
"He was a natural athlete. He was a great hockey player,'' Mike Kolar, one of Macrina's roommates who played with him on the Grace hockey team. 

"He was a really hard worker. He was just an all­round good guy, real friendly," Kolar said. 
The Notre Dame varsity 
hockey team, which had played 
Boston College, attended 
Macrina's funeral in South 
Easton, about 45 minutes south 
of Boston, Lardner said. 
"Being a student and all, it was a sad occasion," Borden said. "We were in the area and we thought (attending the fu­neral) was appropriate," he said. 
Thursday, January 19, 1989 
Macrina is survived by his mother, Barbara Palm and stepfather Carl Palm and two younger brothers. 
Macrina's name will be added to a plaque remember­ing deceased students who lived in Grace Hall, Lardner said. Richard Macrina is the fourth student from Grace who died while still a student, he added. 
A memorial Mass will be cel­ebrated Jan. 26 at 5 p.m. in Sa­cred Heart Church, said Direc­tor of Campus Ministry Father Andre Leveille. 










$99 roundtrip airfares on Northwest Airlines. 
Aspecial offer for students,
only for Atfierican Express Cardmembers. 
If you want to go places, it's time for the American Express® Card. 
Because now you can take advantage of new travel privileges on Northwest Airlines onlj•forfull-time students who carry the American Erpre~:~ Card 
Travel privileges that offer: 

.~ IU:o $99 roundtnp tickets-fly to any of NORTI-tWEST the more than 180 cities served by North-AIRLINES west in th~ contiguous 48 United _States. 
LOOK 10 us Only one ticket may be used per SIX-month period. 
SpecialQuarter{vNorthu-est Destination Disrounts throughout1989-up to 25% off the lowest available fare. 5,000 bonus miles in Northwest's WORLDPERKS® free travel program-where only 20,000 miles gets you a free roundtrip ticket to anywhere Northwest flies in the contiguous 48 United States or Canada. 
And, of course, you'll enjoy all the exceptional benefits and personal service you would expect from American Express. 
The only requirements for privileged travel: you must be a Cardmember, you must be a full-time stu­dent, and you must charge your Northwest Airlines tickets with the Card.* 
Getting the Card is easier than ever because now you can apply by phone. Just calll-800-942-AMEX. We'll take your application and begin to process it right away. What's more, with our Automatic 
Approval offers, you can qualify now while you· re still in school. 
Apply now. Fly later -for less. 

Apply Now: 1-800-942-AMEX 
*Some restrictions may apply For complete offer details. call 1-800-942-AMEX. Current student Cardmembers automatically receive two $99 vouchers in the mail © 1989 American Express Travel Related Services Companv, Inc. 


.. 
Thursday, January 19, 1989 
The Observer page 5 
.'t-. 
-
.... 

The Observer 1 Suzanne Poch 

As part of the pre-game Fiesta Bowl festivities, the into the center of Sun Devil Stadium to the delight field was covered with an enormous American flag. and surprise of the record-breaking 74,911 fans pres­Also, members of the United States Army parachuted ent at the game. 
T


Friday, January 27, 1989 • Joyce ACe • 9:00pm-4:ooam Contact Your Hall Representattve • Sponsored by Non-varsity Athletics Proceeds To Benefit St. 
FOR THOSE GOING ON THE RIGHT-TO LIFE WASHINGTON D.C. TRIP 
All Must Attend Payments due at this time ANY QUESTIONS CALL KATHLEEN ZASSICK 289-6817 
BREAK BRIEFS 
A gift of $50,000 has been given by the family and friends of the late Todd Sullivan of Germantown, Tennes­see, to establish an undergraduate scholarship fund in his memory. Todd Sullivan, who died early in his career at Christian Brother's High School in Memphis, was the son of Steve and Kathy (Huisking) Sullivan of Germantown. Steve Sullivan graduated from Notre Dame in 1968. -The Observer 
The 1987-1988 edition of the University of Notre Dame's student yearbook, the Dome, has received a "first place with special merit" award from the American Scholastic Press Association. The announcement describes the Notre Dame yearbook as "an excellent publication which showed a tremendous amount of time, energy, and talent by editors and staff members." -The Observer 
The first installment of a $100,000 gift to Notre Dame by Theodore Weber, of El Cerrito, California, has arrived. The gift was to purchase and maintain a unique collection of paperback books for its University Libraries. The col­lection, purchased from A.F. Wallis Ltd., an antiquarian bookseller in England, consists of more than 12,500 items, including nearly every title published by the Penguin Books, the pioneering British paperback book publisher, between 1935 and 1965. Only 39 of 5,040 Penguin titles which appeared during that period are missing. -The Observer 
Cheryl Schrader, a doctoral candidate in electrical engineering at the University of Notre Dame, is the recipient of the 1988 Borg-Warner Automotive Scholarship awarded by the Society of Automotive Engineers. Schrader, who plans a career in teaching and research, received her masters degree from Notre Dame in 1987. Her doctoral research combines applied mathematics and feedback theory in the study of how systems respond to commands. -The Observer 
University President Father Edward Malloy will be elected a trustee of the National Citizens Commission on Alcoholism on March 3..The Commission, part of the Chicago-based National Council on Alcoholism, Inc., is chaired by Robert Radin. -The Observer 
John Santos, professor of psychology and director of the Center for Gerontological Education, Researsch and Services (GERAS) at Notre Dame, has been appointed to the National Advisory Council on Aging of the National Institutes of Health. The appointment was made by Dr. Otis Bowen, Secretary of Health and Human Services in the Reagan administration. The Council on Aging counsels government officials on issues related to the aging process, associated diseases and other special problems and needs of the aging. -The Observer 
2/11/89 LSAT CLASS STARTS 1/19/89 
4/29/89 MCAT CLASS STARTS 2/5/89 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. 
PLEASE RESERVE YOUR 
PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. 
!KAPLAN 
STAN LEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 
KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER 1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 219/272-4135 
cccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccc 
Thursday, January 19, 1988
The Observer

page6 
some people carry our compatibility a bit too far 


Modell Mode/20 
W/3.5" floppy W120Mb hard drive 3.5" floppy 
w/ZMM-149 Amber or While Phospher monitor R~. $1775 $2108 Now $1664 $1997 
w/ZCM-1390 RGB Analog color monitor R~. $1997 $2330 Now $1886 $2219 
w/ZCM-1490 FTM color monitor 
R~. $2108 $2441 Now $2053 $2386 
Mode/40 
w/40Mb hard drive 3.5"floppy 
$2552 $2441 
$2774 $2663 
$2885 $2830 
What does Zenith Data Systems' compatibility mean to you? Versatility. Word processing, desktop publishing and all your future business software that runs on the industry standard: DOS~ 
For more information contact: 
Office of University Computing Notre Dame Computing Store Room 25 Computer I Math Building 239-7477 

data 
systems 

THE QUALITY GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES ON" 

M>Windowa and MS-DOS an! reg!sterod trademarks of Mlacaoft Corp. Special pricing offer good only on purch....through Zenith Contact~) lloled above by otudento, faallty and .Wffor their own u... No other d!Jcounts apply. Limit one peroonal mmputer and one monitor per Individual In any 12-month period. l'rla!o oubject to change without notice. 1989, Zenith Data Syot•ms. 
Thursday, January 19, 1989 
WELCOME BACK!! SO LETS GET THE YEAR STARTED OFF RIGHT...... 
ALL MOVIE RENTALS $1.50 
thru Jan 

Video Vendor located in the basement of the student center. 
Microcomputer Lab Consultants 
User Services in the Office of University Computing is seeking applicants for positions as assistant consultants in its campus microcomputer labs for the second semester. All Students with microcomputer hardware and software experience (especially IBM, Zenith, other PC compatible and Apple Macintosh) are encouraged to apply. Interested persons should fill out an application form in the Office of University Computing Library (room 3 of the Computing Center I Math Building) between the hours of 8:00 -12:00 and 1:00-5:00 Monday through Friday. You will be contacted for an interview in January so please respond as soon as possible. 
-. 
The Observer page 7 
Panel to study Miami slaying 
Associated Press 
MIAMI-City commissioners voted unanimously Wednesday to appoint a panel to investi­gate an interracial slaying that touched off two nights of rioting by blacks, leaving one person dead and buildings burned and looted. 
The vote during an emer­gency session came amid warnings from black leaders that only quick action to ease racial tension could prevent more violence. 
The panel will investigate the Monday slaying of Clement Lloyd, a 23-year-old black motorcyclist shot in the head by a white policeman as Lloyd and a friend sped through Miami's black Overtown sec­tion. 
The panel was created at the suggestion of Miller Dawkins, the lone black on the five­member city commission, who wanted a board consisting of five policemen and five Over­town residents with Mayor Xavier Suarez as chairman. 
Dawkins acknowledged the board will not satisfy the young people throwing rocks and bottles, and he appealed to them for time. 
"I'd like to tell them to give us a chance to work this out, and to work on all our other ills, such as poor housing, poor edu­cation, joblessness," he said. "And they have to work with us instead of creating other problems like they are doing now." 

Children return to site of shooting 

PARSONS 
SCHOOL OF DESIGN 
Special Summer Progra1ns 
FRANCE WEST AFRICA ITALY GREAT BRITAIN JAPAN ISRAEL NEW YORK 
International programs arc offered for students. teachers and working professionals. Courses include: archaeology. architectural history. art history. ceramics, decorative arts, drawing. fashion. fiber, metal and surface design. graphic design. painting. and photography. Undergraduate and gradu­ate credits arc available to qualified students. For more informati<in. please mail the coupon below orcall: 
P.arsons Office of Special Programs 
(2U) 741-8975 

Parsons School of Design, Office of Special Programs 
66 Fifth Avenue. New York. N.Y. 10011 
Please send me a brochure on Parsons Special 
Summer Programs. 

Name ______________ 
Address ________________ 
City ________ State ___ Zip ____ 
Phone 
24 

Associated Press 
STOCKTON, Calif.-Children returned to class to confront their fears with help from psyc­hologists Wednesday, just one day after a gunman fascinated by toy soldiers killed five youngsters at the school he at­tended as a boy. 
Blood was washed from the pavement overnight and bullet holes were patched at Cleveland Elementary School, where experts said it was im­portant that pupils, mostly children of Southeast Asian refugees, deal with the trauma immediately. 
"I still feel upset, but I have to bring my kid to see the teacher to let the teacher know my kid's all right," Brom Lee said in broken English. "Everybody's angry. Your kid there, you get angry too." 
His daughter, 7-year-old Nary, said she was scared to return because "I saw blood." 
Holding tightly to her father's hand, she pointed to her leg and said, "I saw somebody get shot right here." 
Police said Patrick Purdy, wearing an olive-drab shirt bearing the Iranian battle cry "Death to the Great Satin (sic)," on Tuesday sprayed more than 100 shots from an assault rifle, killing five youngsters ages 6 to 9 and wounding 30 other people. 
Adrifter who police said was either 24 or 26, Purdy killed himself with a pistol shot to the head after the mute, methodi­cal attack during recess. 

:················································
•  WELCOME BACK!  ••••••  
WE WOULD LIKE TO  
INTRODUCE OUR  
••••  '89 SPECIALS  •• 

•
• 
II. 

•
•
• 
:r------------------,1 •• 
~: TOP Two 12.. • •• 
•
Cheese Pizzas: • 

~: THIS $6 89 I •
: 1 only • 1/a•\ •• ••
:1 1 
•

~ : fla!l~ :::g~~l toppings : • 
:1 e~••·ry1® No coupon needed, 1 : 1 just ask! 
• 
I 

• 
I Not valid with any other offer. Valid at participating locations. I : 1 Umited delivery area. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. I:L__________________ ©1989 Domino's Pizza, Inc. Offer expires 3-31-89. ...J 


•
·r------------------, • 
1 NEW Try A Domino's 1 I DOMINO'S Pan Pizza Today 1 
: PAN only $6.89 : 
I PIZZA™ I
• 1-\ Additional toppings
1 1
available! 
•

:,A.Jil\ :::::~7:~;~ : 
I r-... . . .]® Doubles -two pizzas one I 
I  special price.  I  
I  Not valid with any other offer. Valid at participating locations.  I  
Il  Umited delivery area. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. ©1989 Domino's Pizza, Inc. Offer expires 3-31-89.  I_j  
-----------------­ 
•  

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Call Now! 
• Notre Dame 
•
•
•

277-2151 •
•

1835 South Bend Ave. •
•
•
•
•
• 

,..--------~--­
Thursday, January 19, 1989

page 8 The Observer 
S!!~~~s 
who ended his five-year stint as Irish coach with a 58-7 loss to Miami and a 30-26-1 record. 
"It's a dream come true," said senior tailback and tri­captain Mark Green. "It's an awesome feeling. Everything came together. It was a long time coming. I knew it was pos­sible, but I can't say I thought it was going to happen. 
"It's been a long, long road. Coach Holtz came in and res­tored the discipline. We've been through hell, but it's just a matter of paying the price. Now we're collecting the 
dividends." 
"For what is good and right in America, Notre Dame deserves to be champs," added senior tri-captain Andy Heck. "This is the greatest thing I've ever been a part of." 
!!!~Sp!e~ 
tory. It has become a political slogan Reagan has repeated over and over. 
Reagan told the players how much he values his association with Notre Dame, which he has twice visited during his presidency. 
The President of Notre Dame, Father Edward Malloy, read a plaque that went along with the sweater, which was 
Research grants announced 
awarded to Gipp for his perfor­mance as a halfback on the Notre Dame team in 1917 and 1918. 
"I think that's a great sacrifice by the university, but believe me, no one could trea­sure it more than I will," the president said. 
Notre Dame won its eighth national championship-the most by any team in the 53-year history of the Associated Press poll-by defeating West Vir­ginia 34-21 in the Fiesta Bowl to finish the season with a 12-0 record. 
West Virginia was third in Notre Dame in what was gen­erally recognized as the game that would decide the national title. 
In addition, Notre Dame ior the fourth time won the College Football Association's Aca­demic Achievement Award for 
highest graduation  rate  last  
season.  
Most  of the lettermen  are  

coming back next season, which Notre Dame will open by playing Virginia in the Kickoff Classic, Aug. 31 at Giant Stadium in East Rutherford, 

Special to the Observer 
The University of Notre Dame received $931,451 in grants during November for the support of research and 
I I various programs. Reserch 
:I funds totaled $530,696, includ­ing: $100,055 from the U.S. Navy for studies of ordering in semi­conducting and other alloys, Kathie Newman, associate pro­fessor of physics, principal in­vestigator. 100,000 from the U.S. Air Force for research by John Dow, Friemann professor of physics, on vibrational proper­ties of certain materials. $85,779 from the U.S. Navy for studies of semiconductor microstructure by Bruce Bunker, associate professor of physics. $74,000 from the National Sci­ence Foundation for research by Steven Ruggiero, associate professor of physics, on the per­pendicular resistivity of syn­theti<; metal multilayers. $69,600 from Indiana State Board of Health for research by Harvey Bender, professor of biological sciences, on a pro­gram in human genetics. $62,162 from the National Sci­ence Foundation for research on several complex variables theory by Wilhelm Stoll, Dun­can professor of mathematics, and Warren Wong, professor of mathematics. $31,000 from the National Sci­ence Foundation for research by Julia Knight, professor of mathematics, on recursive model theory. $8,000 from the National In­stitutes of Health for research by Maureen Hallinan, White professor of arts and letters in sociology, on determinants of students' interracial friendli­ness. Awards for facilities and equipment totaled $265,054 $90,797 from the National Sci­ence Foundation for an electri­cal engineering design and re­search laboratory, administered by Eugene Henry and John Uhran, professors of electrical engineering. $80,717 from the National Sci­ence Foundation for an under­graduate laboratory for the hy­drologic sciences, administered by Stephen Sil­liman, assistant professor of civil engineering, and William Gray, Massman professor of civil engineering. $70,000 from the U.S. Air Force for high-speed visualizatin of device stimula­tions undertaken by Craig Lent and Supriyo Bandyopadhyay, assistant professors of electri­cal and computer engineering; Wolfgang Porod, associate pro­fessor of civil engineering. $23,540 from Research Corp. for a coincidence spectrometer to be used by Robert Hayes, professor of chemistry. 
$24,207 from private benefac­tors for p~ograms of the In­
stitute for Pastoral and Social professor of law and of govern­Ministry and the Center for So­ment and international studies, cial Concerns. on American constitutionalism $11,291 from the St. Joseph in comparative perspective. County Job Training Program $10,000 from the National En­for job training program orien­dowment for the Humanities tation, administered by War­for the participation of Mark ren Outlaw, assistant profes­Jordan, associate professor of sional specialist in urban liberal studies, and Kent studies, and Roland Smith, ex­Every, assistant professor in ecutive assistant to the presi­the program of liberal studies, dent and associate professional at the Ad Litteram Conference. specialist in the Institute for $9,762 from NASA--langleyUrban Studies. Research Center for the partic­Awards for other programs ipation of Thomas Mueller, totaled $96,943, including: chairman of aerospace and me­
$75,431 from the National En­chanical engineering, at the dowment for the Humanities Low Reynolds Number for work by Donald Kommers, Aerodynamics Conference. 

THE FAST TRACK TO FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT STARTS HERE. 
I 
hat's because our Financial Management Development Pro­
~ gram (FMDP) offers immediate challenge and outstanding growth potential for the future. At The Travelers, a $50 billion leader in insurance and finan­
cial services, your talent will go a long way. When you join FMDP, 
you will be involved in a 3-year program encompassing both prac­
tical and academic components. 
Your practical work experience will include a series of rota­tional assignments in such areas as: Audit; Financial Planning; Investments; Measurements and Analysis; Data Processing; Financial Systems and Support; Accounting; and Tax Compliance/ Planning. 
These rotations, along with a diverse academic curriculum, 
will prepare you for a variety of financial management positions in 
the future at our company. 
We're looking for ambitious people with the drive and moti­
vation to succeed. If you've majored in Accounting, Finance, Eco­
nomics, or a related field of study; have a GPA of 3.2 or better; and 
feel you have the strong analytical and communication skills we ·desire, make your move now. 
For more information about the FMDP, visit your Placement 
Office for a brochure. Or, call Gail Greenier, Corporate Recruiting, 
at (203) 954-8113. 
We'll be on campus Tuesday, February 14th. To schedule an interview, see your placement office now. Final sign-up deadline, Tuesday, January 31st. 
TheTravelerSJ' 
'rou'n• bl'lll'r ott undl'r thl' L'mbrl'll,l 
The Travelers Companies, Hartford, Connecticut 06183. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Viewpoint
Thursday, January 19, 1989 page 9 
Viewpoint Policy 
P.O. Box Q
I. All members of the Notre Dame 
nd Saint Mary's community may sub­it columns, letters to the editor, or artoons to the Viewpoint department f The Observer. While individuals not associated with the Notre Dame and 
aint Mary's community may submit guest columns, letters to the editor, and cartoons, the Viewpoint department gives priority to those individuals who are directly associated with the com­munity. 
II. All columns, letters to the editor, and cartoons submitted to the View­point department become the property of The Observer. Any further use of these commentaries without the writ­ten consent of The Observer is prohibited. Not-for-profit organiza­tions, those organizations which have reciprocal-usage agreement and those organizations of which The Observer is a member may be granted permission to publish commentaries with the per­mission of the editor-in-chief or the per­mission of the managing editor and the Viewpoint editor. If the commentaries have not been printed in The Observer, the Viewpoint editor may return them to the authors. 
III. The Viewpoint department reserves the right to edit all commen­taries submitted to the Viewpoint de­partment. The Observer has no obliga­tion to print commentaries submitted. Commentaries will not be printed if they are libelous, unintelligible, or sub­mitted by anyone mentally unbalanced. 
IV. 
All commentaries submitted to The Observer must bear the signature of the author. Under no circumstances will unsigned commentaries appear in print in the Viewpoint section of The Observer. The author's name appear­ing in print must be one by which the author is commonly known. 

V. 
Commentaries submitted as let­ters to the editor may not exceed three in number from the same individual or organization within the same academic semester. There is no limit to the num­ber of times an individual or organiza­tion may have their commentaries ap­pear in print as guest columnists or regular columnists. 


VI. All commentaries printed in the Viewpoint section must be verified before being printed. The means of verification are left to the discretion of the Viewpoint editor. 
VII. Only those individuals author­ized to speak as representatives for a group will be allowed to use the organi­zation's name. In such cases, the pri­
~r_y author of the commentary is the individual(s), and the commentary is in effect, only being co-signed by th organization. 
VIII. Commentaries which appear i the Viewpoint section may not hav been printed previously in othe newspapers, magazines, or publica tions. Exceptions to this procedure ar those organizations of which The Ob server is a member, quotations use for commentaries, and "Quote of th Day." Syndicated columns also are ex eluded from this procedure. 
IX. The opinions expressed in th Viewpoint section are not necessaril those of the editorial board. Hous editorials appear in the Viewpoint sec tion of The Observer. Regular colum nists, those whose columns appear o a regular basis; guest columnists, thos whose columns do not appear on a reg ular basis ; letters to the editor; an cartoons are commentaries. Sue status is determined by the Viewpoin editor and in all incidences excep house editorials. The House Editoria Guidelines and the InstaHous Guilelines are included in the Hous 
Editorial Policy. 

X. Paid employees of The Observe are not permitted to have their com­mentaries appear in the Viewpoint sec­tion as letters to the editor. Regular columnists and members of the View­point staff also are not eligible to have their commentaries appear in the View­point section as letters to the editor. Those whose commentaries appear in print in column form may not respond to criticism of that commentary in let­ters to the editor. 
XI. This policy must be approved by the editorial board and can be amended by a majority vote of the editorial board. All procedures not covered in this policy statement are left to the dis­cretion of the Viewpoint editor in con sultation with the editor-in-chief. Th procedures outlined in this policy appl only to the Viewpoint department o The Observer. 
XII. No commentaries of any kin will be printed in the Viewpoint section concerning any candidate for studen government or hall office once the of ficial campaign period has begun fo that office. This ban on commentarie is to continue until the election of thi position has been completed. The Ob server reserves the right to commen on any candidate or issue it wishe throughout the campaign period. A any time, the editor-in-chief and th Viewpoint editor may suspend this ar ticle. 
Family values student support 
Dear Editor: 
The family of Rick Macrina would like to thank you for your kindness and sympathy at a time when it was deeply appreciated. We know Rick was loved deeply by his family at Notre Dame and will be sadly missed. 
Sincerely, The Macrina family January 18, 1989 

Graduate student calls for justice 
Dear Editor: 
Foreign graduate students from the third world experience a great pressure in their departments, especially in the College of Arts and Letters. They are expected to be as "perfect" and out­standing as American graduate stu­dents and to have the same level and cultural background. 
Most of the graduate administrators, faculty and staff do not regard these students as having the same capacities for being outstanding students despite the lack of efficient knowledge in their third world education. Those people are so concentrated in their own "perfec­tion" that they are unable to realize the fact that those students are considered the brightest and the best professionals in their countries, that they were selec­ted from hundreds of candidates all over their countries to obtain a more qualified education and to represent their nations in an American institu­tion. 
It is true that Notre Dame wants to be more and more selective. It is for this reason that foreign students are being discriminated in their depart­ments; if they were admitted through their written productions, transcripts, curriculums and letters of recommen­dations like any other American candi­dates, they have condition to be in the Program and the right to be treated with the same level of equality. If graduate administrators think that third world students are inferiors to American candidates they should not admit them at all. But once they are admitted, the departments should give conditions for these students to develop their capacities and to continue their good work. The students should be pro­vided with assistance and with faculty members in charge of helping them in their progress (by either minimizing their difficulties or by encouraging their good work). 
So attention foreign graduate stu­dents of the third world, let's show those people we can succeed in spite of their discouragement. Let them know that we do not want the future jobs reserved for American graduate students. Let them know we are here with a very important mission---to acquire better knowledge and qualification in order to improve the development of our third world country and to contribute to our countries cultural progress. Let's al­ways remember that we have an out­standing position in our country, and our country wants us to prove it while being a graduate student in this "well­developed" country. 
Maria Amorim Off-campus Dec. 7, 1988 

Quote of the Day 
"I think Knute Rockne would have been proud of this football team ... There may be more talented teams, and there may be better coached teams. But there can't be any teams that typify Notre Dame spirit any better than this one." Lou Holtz 
January 2, 1989 



Editorial Board Operations Board 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303  Edotor·m·Choef Managong Edotor  Chros Murphy Chros Donnelly  Busmess Manager Advertosmg Desogn Manager  John Oxnder Molly K1llen  
News Edotor  Reg1s Cocc1a  Advertosmg Manager  L1nda Goldschmidt  
The Observer IS the ondependent newspaper published by the students or the Unoversoty or Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary·s College It does not necessanly reflect the pohc1es or lhe adm1n1strat1on of e11her 1nst1tutoon The news os reported as accurately and ob1ect1vely as possoble Unsogned edotonals represent the opon1on of the ma1onty of the Edotonal Board  News Edotor Mark Mclaughlin Voewpomt Edotor..•............•...••...............Dave Bruner Sports Edotor · Marty Strasen Accent Edotor Beth Healy  Productoon Manager Systems Manager Controller Graphoc Arts Manager  Bernadene Sh1lts Mark A1dgeway Todd Hard1man Marga Bruns  
Commentanes. letters and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of theor authors Column space IS ava1lable to all members of the communoty and the tree express1on of vary1ng  Samt Mary·s Edotor Photo Edotor  Sandy Cenmele M1chael Moran  
op1noons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged  Founded November 3,1966  


Accent 
Thursday, January 19, 1989

PS 10 
Roman nightlife: in a class by itself 
LIZ PANZICA accent writer 

R 
orne, birth place of the greatest empire ever known to man. Rome, home of the Universal Church. Rome, a city wealthy beyond belief in painting, sculpture, and architecture. Rome, a hotbed of nocturnal activity? Well, not quite. But it's not bad. 
In Italy, like other Meditar­ranean countries, shops are open much later in the eve­ning due to long afternoon meals. This pushes the Roman dinner hour back to about 8 p.m. With the evening beginning later, one would expect nightlife to go into the wee hours of the morning. However, that's not the case in the eternal city. Dis­coteques and such do stay open, but the European dance club scene is in a class by itself. 
The streets of cultural Rome are relatively quiet at night considering the city's size and status. All activity ceases by 2 a.m. at the latest, and things are usually wind­ing down by midnight. 
But just because the city retires early doesn't mean there is a lack of activity. Rome offers many meeting places perfect for the student, traveler, and native. The hot­test spots in the city are the age-old piazzas and the bars and gelaterias surrounding them. 
What follows is just a short list of the favorites of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents studying in Rome. 
Piazza Navona: A large square whose centerpiece is a massive fountain depicting the four known rivers (to the Romans). Two smaller foun­tains define the boundaries at the end of the Piazza. Artists have claimed this area as their own. Landscape and portrait artists display their talents for the strolling tourists and restless, young natives. It's a nice place to grab a gelato (like ice cream and butter) and browse. A slower pace for an older, tamer crowd. 
The Trevi Fountain: Major tourist spot! Go to the foun­tain and make a wish, but don't stick around. Ladies beware. The Italian men who frequent this spot will not leave an American alone. All over Rome, American females attract quite a bit of attention. Sometimes it's flat­tering and fun. Most times it's just plain annoying. At the Trevi Fountain, it's espe­cially bad because everyone there is either a tourist or an Italian male looking for a tourist. 
The Spanish Steps: Right by the McDonald's in Rome. 

Student travelers from all 
over flock to the steps. Expe­
riences vary. The mood dif­
fers depending on the day of 
the week and the type of 
crowd around. Each new plat­
form of steps has a different 
group of people. Interesting spot, great for people watch­ing or just listening to Italian guitarists sing Bruce , Springsteen's "Born to Run." 
If the Piazza scene gets tiring and the high-priced bars around it bore you, there are two distinctly American bars. Bars in Italy are places to sit and have a caffe or sandwich. Italian bars do serve alcohol, but that isn't their main activity. The Fox Pub and Miscellania are close to American bars. 
The Fox Pub is crowded, smokey and offers "all you can drink" specials. "The best deal you can get without an ID," said Kathleen Houlihan of the Saint Mary's Rome Program. The clientele is distinctly American. It's the place to go when you're sick of the attention of Italian men. 
On Friday and Saturday nights, however, students from the American high schools descend upon the Fox. The little pub is best avoided on those days because drunken 16-year-olds are much worse than drunken 20-year-olds. 
Miscellania is pretty much like the Fox but not so crowded or smokey. Of course as with everything else it all depends on the day and the mood. 
By no mean~ is the list above complete. Throughout Rome there are hundreds of different night spots. The atti­tude differs from America's nightlife. An appreciation for a good capuccino and con­versation are a must when in Rome. It is often best to go off the beaten track and, well, do as the Romans do. 
But that's another story. For now, Ciao. 

'Tour of Duty' fails to depict true Vietnam 
S 
uccessful motion pictures are often the inspiration behind new television series ideas. "Three Men and a Baby" inspired "Full House." "Baby Boom" and "Dirty Dancing" initiated series of the same names. Then there's "Platoon," the heralded Viet Nam drama that captivated audiences in record numbers. The television industry, ready ture the excitement, realism, to earn big bucks off and authenticity of "Platoon's" success, quickly "Platoon." Terence Knox put together "Tour of Duty," stars as Zeke Anderson, the a tour de force of boredom sergeant in charge of the and confusion. group. Other characters in­
CBS airs "Tour of Duty" clude Myron Goldman Mondays at 8 p.m. Centered (Stephen Caffrey), Danny around the activities of the Purcell (Tony Becker), Mar­members of a small platoon, vin Johnson (Stan Foster), this show attempts to recap-Alberto Ruiz (Ramon 

'Tour of Duty' fells to follow In the footsteps of 'Platoon.' 
Calvin and Hobbes 
Bill Watterson 

OUR HEI<o BtA% Off WID\ ZOOtWS! 1\\E Zl.X.~S HIS £1'\E~IK~ .lU PKl(! lo.l1£ 00 ~ S:OO~! 
ANoTIIf.R OP.RitlG Es::.APE f<fil. 5?\fF fiRES \\IS OCAnl RA'( 
nl£ 11-\~EPID SPIICEMAN SPiff! 1'------. BlAStt.R.! 
\ 

Franco), Marcus Taylor involved. To make matters (Miguel Nunez), Johnny worse, the already-boring McKay (Dan Gautier), and plotlines often become, like "All My Children's" Kim the reasons behind the war Delaney as Alex Devlin. Each itself, cluttered and confus­week these characters find ing. themselves in the midst of the terror and destruction that is Perhaps the show's greatest VietNam. attributes are its cast and 
characters. Viewers will find 

In one episode, for exam­it easy to relate to such char­ple, Zeke falls for a sexy doc­acters as Marvin Johnson tor in the Psych Ward of a with his hot temper or Johnny hospital; however, their rela­McKay with his "studly" tionship becomes a war all its image; however, the show 


JOE BUCOLO 
To Be Continued ... 
own when Zeke breaks into her files to find confidential information about a patient. Another plot includes a mys­tery surrounding the death of a lieutenant who dies when a grenade suddenly explodes behind him. As the episode evolves, Danny and Marvin help Zeke to discover the 
identity of the man who stole 
the grenade and planned to 
blow up the rest of the 
platoon. 
In theory these plots sound feasible, even enjoyable; however, the stories progress as fast as car on a oil slick. While it is obvious the Viet Nam conflict was not all bom­bings and shootings, the pro­ducers of the show need to bring forth more entertain­ment to keep the audience presents so many characters that the hour-long show hasn't the time to do any of them justice. In one episode, for example, the viewers only see Alex for a few seconds at the beginning and end of the show. The cast is a very talented one and deserves a better showpiece for its tal­ent. 
"Tour of Duty" is a drab, dull, delinquent show that trivializes the VietNam con­flict; however, it is not doomed. With creative and crisp plotlines and in-depth character development, the talented cast of "Tour of Duty" would round out a won­derful show. In the meantime, however, the loser of the Monday Night Prime Time is definitely CBS. 


Thursday, January 19, 1989 
The Observer page 11 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 
3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The 
charge is 1 0 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
REWARD COUNSELORS-Boys camp in Berl<shire NOTICES Lost: Gold Chinese coin (wrth a panda Mts., West. Mass. Good Sal.,roorn & GOVERNMENT HOMES From $1.00(U Saltt S.le S.le LIVE MUSIC 
Repair) Foreclosures, Repos, Tax delin· Spring C...nlng S.le FREDDY JONES BANDbear image) on a gold chain. I lost the bd,travel allowance, beautiful modem quent properties. Now Mlllng thla areel Sweetahlrta reg $42.~.99 FRIDAY AT MCCORMICK"$necklace on Monday, Jan. 16, and it has facility,must love children & be able to Caii(Refundable) 1-315-733-6064 Ext Mebll Signa all atylea 30% off 10:00 PMACADEMIC9USINESS TYPING been in the family lor 3 generations. teach one of the following: Tennis,
237-1949 G34 For Cu....,t llatlngal Many mlacelleneoua Httma 25-50% off 125 N. MICHIGAN
Please call Heather at 284-5076, day or W.S.I.,Sailing 
The Country Hllrveater

night, if found. Waterski,Basebaii,Basketbaii,Soccer t..tortune SIUdent Csntar
BOOKS FOR SALE ................................................................
-······························································ REWARD LaCrosse,Wood,A&C,Rocketry, Photog­
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL Microcomputers EE361 , Real Analysis Mon-Frt 12:00-5:30
raphy,Archery,Pioneering,

MRS. COKER, 2»-7009. Math335, Abs1ract Algebra Math222, C
Ropes,Piano,Drama.Call "'write: Camp 

................................................................ Programming Math316, Logic Design ·····•·························································· Men of N.D. beware!!! Pop Farley week 
Winadu,5 Glen La.,Mamaroneck, NY ................................................................ 
SEEKING MAGNAVOX ODESSEY EE241, French 103, Dutchess of Ma~i.
10543. (914)381-5983 Hey crazed weasel is coming and you know what thet CARTRIDGES ESPECIALLY FOOT· FOR RENT Hope you hed a great break. Didn't get means!!! ~ you are not asked this year.
Dr. Faustus, The Bluest Eye, 4 Plays ol BALL THIS MIGHT NOT SEEM IMPOR· ·························· Chicamatsu, 20 Plays ol No Theatre,
COUNSELORS-Girts camp in Maine. too much did you? Wreck any homes there is always next year!!!! TANT, BUT BELIEVE ME, IT IS. IF YOU, Chusingura, In Delense ol Anarchism
Good sal,room & bd.,travel allowance. lately?
OR ANYONE YOU KNOW CAN HELP, HoH Handbook, Anatomy of Drama,
HOUSE AVAILABLE 2ND SEMESTER beautiful modern facility ,must love The Mad Personal Writer 
THE MONETARY REWARD WILL BE Epicoene, Portable Shakespeare.
AND 1118&-90. WELL MAINTAINED, children and be able to teach one ol the 
GREAT. CALL 277·6224. FURNISHED, SECURE. UP TO 5 following:Tennis, W.S.T.,Sailing Call Will at 2089 POP FARLEY WEEK IS HEREII Every­A week of fun for everyone! Pop Farley .............. .. ····································· BEDROOMS WASHEM>RYER . Waterski,Soltbaii,Basketball, Soc· one muat prepa,.lllll is here so everyone get a good date now!! The memory has been preserved. Order 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS. COMPETITIVE cer,LaCrosse,A&C,Photography, Horse­························· 
your limited edition, laminated copy ol Attention UCAM MEMBERS There will
RENT.~10. back,Dance,Piano,Drama,Ropes Camp
January 3rd's TEMPE DAILY NEWS· be a meeting Monday night at 8pm in
Craft,Gymnastics.Call "' write:Camp

sports page. Send $12.95 plus 2.00 Lewis. Please come and help plan the
RENT HS FOR 2ND SEM. NEAR Vega, Box 1771 Duxbury, Mass. 02332 TICKETS interested in acting in a theater troupe? postage and handling along with your semester! 
new group lorming on campus call x4603 name and address to:DAH Products-Post 3 BDRMS, 2 BTHS. 234-4318. ························ ·······• "' x31 05 lor audition details.WANTED: 1 OR 2 FIESTA BOWL TIX 
BRIDGET$. $425 MO PLUS UTILITIES. (617)934-6536 
Office Box 12999 Arltngton, VA 22209 On-campus travel representative or or­MIDWAY AIRPORT!!II!III!IIII I NEED A 
BY NO ALUM, $125 EA. (415) 781-8570 RIDE TO MIDWAY THIS FRIDAYganization needed to promote SpringHOUSE FOR RENT 3 BLOCKS FROM
Typlng.Wordproceulng Break trip to AO<ida "' Texas. Earn EXT. 4132 DAYS OR EVENING BEFORE 3:00. PLEASE CALL 2612.
NO 3 BEDROOMS-$475+.10 516
237-1949 money, lree trips,and valuable work ex­(COLLECT) AT (415) 451H1240. THANKS. JON O...CONGRATS ON HOUSTOI!I
NAPOLEON 232·3616 

perience. Call Inter-Campus Programs 1· YOU'VE COME A LONG WAY BABY. 
······························•························ 4 SYRACUSE & DUKE GA'S FOR SALE. 
800-433·774 7 Adoption Ia lha only way -will ex­...NANCY 272·6306 perience lha love and Joy of a child. 
..c;;;;;;·;.;::;·Qi~;;;;;·w-;~~~-w~i-;;d.io Hllpplly married couple,both doc­FeM".f:i:e······t:ooi<iN.G......;:c;..···s;;A:Re 
worl< at LENNY'S AMERICAN GRILL. Will Pay $$ for SU Tickets. # 1052 tors,wl•h to take turna atayfng at LOVELY 3 BEDROOM HOME WITHIN We will work around any class sche--<lule 
home wHh a beby to love u our own. 5 MINUTES OF ST. MARY'S NOTRE and we our wrthin walking dis--tance of I need 2 GA's and 2 students lor MedlcaK.egal p~~kl. can collect DAME CAMPUS WITH NON-SMOKINGOVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo.
SEEKING MAGNAVOX ODESSEY campus. H interested call 271-8158. SYRACUSE call Bill at x1647 anytime A leeve meg. D-317-844-1156 NON-DRINKING FEMALE $275t.IO IN·
Summer, Yr.round,AII Countrlea, All
CARTRIDGES, ESPECIALLY FOOT· ································································ Conlklenttal. CLUDES UTILITIES. HOME IS COM·
llelda. Free Into. Wrtte IJC, PO Bx 52­
BALL. THE IMPORTANCE OF FINDING :.\mN-TioN~·;;iFiiNG·I····oovERN·t..i·eNT PLETE WITH WASHERoORYER DISH­
IN04-corone Del Mar, CA 92625

THIS CANNOT BE OVERSTATED. IF JOBS YOUR AREA. $17,840-$69,485. LAW SCHOOL: Start your Bar Review WASHER AND PLENTY OF SPACE CALL 602-838-8885 EXT R6262
YOU CAN HELP. PLEASE CALL 277· PERSONALS eerty. Kaplan-SMH _.._ to many FOR PRIVACE. PHONE 271-9676 WANTED:MAGNAVOX ODESSEY
6224 -aVIIIIeble here In South Bencl.
CARTRIDGES PARTICULARLY FOOT· -······························································· 
Tranat.r Nck home tor aummar. Ole­
BALL. GOD WILL LOOK KINDLY UPON 
MATH TUTOR-234-3178. counts tor 1<t1p1an LSAT alumni. LOST a woman's Seiko watch wtth a ~'*"'-March 2 Csll272-4135. 
YOU IF YOU HELP. YOU'LL BE PAID, SUMMER JOBS
FOR SALE 

TOO. CALL 277-6224 All LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN$' CAMPS 
brown lizard strap. Please call272·5989. hi eg. Ask tor Sue. 
Order your TEXTBOOKS 25% OFFI

·--~~-..~~..·~~~i:·;;~~.-:~~·:.;:·.:~ ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR
Congratulations to Julie Mehigan the win­
Lost: NO Alu:rtni Club ol Cincinnati Ban· . SAVE $$$ on paperbacks. 30% OFF! 
tor Kllplen-SMH Bar Review cour-. ner of our Christmas Stocking-Look for LAKE return--no questions asked. Earn tree bar review course plua Sl'a. Just 3 blocks from campus. PH# 233-news on our Easter give-away! The 
ner at the Sheraton Scottsdale. Please PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 Howard St. 
PLACID. CALL 1~n 

Csll 272-4135. -for Sue. 2342 Country Harvester 
Irish swimmers split with NIU 
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 
The men's swimming team scored an outstanding victory over Northern Illinois W ednes­day, 179.5-119.5 at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
The squad recorded 12 vic­tories, including the 400 yard medley relay, the second race of the meet. This was the key event of the meet, according to coach Tim Welsh. 
"This race set the tone for the meet," he said. "Last year, Northern Illinois won the first three races and really put us in a hole. This year, our time of 3: 37 was the fastest time this season except for a champion­ship race." 
Highlights for the Irish in the men's meet included two wins by Tom Penn in the 100 and 200 yard breaststroke and an early victory by freshman Jim Bir­mingham in the 200 freestyle. 
"It was a critical race for us," said Welsh, "and it was a good race for him. It is not his best event but he won." 
Overall, Welsh said that the Irish turned in steady perfor­mances across the board. 
"In the past, Notre Dame teams have been balanced," Welsh said. "This year we have 
Tar Heels pound No. 1 Duke 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. --Scott Wil­liams sparked North Carolina's inside game, scoring 22 points to lead the 13th-ranked Tar Heels to a stunning 91-71 upset of top­ranked Duke in an Atlantic Coast Conference game Wed­nesday night. 
Duke suffered its first loss of the season after 13 victories and fell to 3-1 in the ACC. 
The Tar Heels, who dropped a 23-point decision at Virginia last Sunday, clogged the inside and shut down Duke's offense. With Danny Ferry nursing a been eratic, but in this meet we were much more like a Notre Dame team. It was a good meet in its own right." 
The women were not as suc­cessful as the men's team. They lost to a strong Northern Illinois squad by a final score of 121-178. The Irish have never beaten the Huskies. 
"We lost, but we didn't do horribly," Welsh noted. "We knew that in order to win we would have to do everything right from the first person to 
' 1 "
the last. That happens rare y. 
The women raced faster than in their last meet, a loss to Western Ontario on Jan. 14, which Welsh considers a sign that the team is moving in the right direction. 
"I thought that the women swam faster and aggressively. They swam to win," Welsh said. 
The women are beginning to show signs of the heavy train­ing that took place over the holidays. Their tempo was slower and they were fatigued, according to Welsh. However, there were several noteworthy performances. Tracy Johnson swam her fastest 100 yard freestyle of the season as she placed fourth. Becky Wood had two first place finishes, in the 
sore back, the Blue Devils didn't fare much better from the perimeter, either. 
North Carolina, 15-4 and 2-1 in the ACC, pounded the boards on both ends to take charge. Of their 14 baskets in the second half, only one was a jumper from beyond 10 feet. 
Okla. 123, Kansas 95 
NORMAN, Okla. -Mookie Blaylock scored 30 points and Stacey King added 23 as fifth­ranked Oklahoma beat No. 17 Kansas 123-95 in a Big Eight game Wednesday night. 
The game was the first be­tween the teams since they met 100 and 200 yard breaststroke events. Katie Pamenter and Christy Moston also turned in first-place finishes for the Irish. 
Welsh had high praise for both the men's and women's diving teams. Ed Veome and Pat Dugan were first and third respectively in the one meter diving event for the men, and Allison Baker was second for the women in the three-meter event. 
"The divers contribute in a 
big way," Welsh said. "It is a 
tremendous turnaround in 
meet points to know that the 
divers are solid." 
The Northern Illinois meet marked the end of a three meet training cycle for both Irish teams. On Jan. 6-7, Notre Dame competed in the UC-Irvine In­vitational and placed swim­mers in several events. Then, last week the men defeated Western Ontario and the wo­men lost. Mter the competition against Northern Illinois, the Notre Dame women's team fell to 3-4, and the men's squad im­proved to 5-2. 
Next for the Irish women will be a home meet against Illinois State tonight. Next week both teams will travel to Cleveland State. 
in the NCAA championship game last season. Kansas up­set the Sooners in that game, 83-79. 
Minn. 76, Purdue 66 
MINNEAPOLIS --Melvin Newbern scored 10 of his 14 points in the last 6:11 as Min­nesota finished the game with a 27-9 surge for a 76-66 Big Ten victory over Purdue on Wed­nesday night. 
The Gophers, 10-4 overall and 2-2 in the conference, who hadn't beaten Purdue in 11 meetings dating to 1983, held the Boilermakers to three bas­kets in the final seven minutes. 
Irish, Cavaliers to open season 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, 
N.J. --Two months after being passed over by all sorts of bowls, large and small, Virginia finally got its invitation, and a choice one at that. 
The Cavaliers on Wednes­
day were officially named to 
open the 1989 season against 
defending national cham­
pion Notre Dame in the 
seventh annual Kickoff Clas­
sic on Aug. 31 at Giants 
Stadium. 
"When I first heard, I 
thought, 'Yeah, well we 
deserve it,"' Virginia guard 
and co-captain Roy Brown 
said. "This is our bowl 
game." 
There were some opinion the Cavalfers deserved a postseason bowl bid last season after going 7-4 and ending the season on a five­game winning streak. None came though, and the Cavaliers ended the season with 5-2 mark in the Atlantic Coast Conference, their third second-place finish in five years. 
They did not receive a single vote in The Associ­ated Press' final poll. 
On the hand, Notre Dame was the near-unanimous pick as national champion after capping a 12-0 season with a 34-21 victory over West Virginia in the Fiesta Bowl. The national title was the eighth for the Fighting Irish, the most by any school in the 53-year history of the poll. 
"There's no doubt in my mind that we can play with Notre Dame," Virginia nose guard Ron Carey said. "I think we're good enough at this stage in our develop­ment as a football program to be competitive with a team like that." 
Robert Mulcahy, the chief executive officer of the New 
Jersey Sports and Exposi­
tion Authority, the sponsor 
of the game, said that in in­
viting Virginia the NJSEA 
fulfills a a commitment to 
invite a school from each of 
the seven major confer­
ences. 
The only conference that 
has not been represented in 
the first seven years has 
been the Pac-10. 
"We considered both 
UCLA and Southern Cal, but 
both were unavailable," 
Mulcahy said. "UCLA had a 

problem with its academic 
schedule and USC could not 
be invited because they play 
Notre Dame annually." 
"Don't underestimate Vir­ginia," Mulcahy added. "They are probably going to be the preseason co­favorites to win the ACC and I feel they have a quarter­back (Shawn Moore) who may be better than (Notre Dame quarterback) Tony Rice." 
Moore is one of 18 starters returning next season for Virginia. The junior passed for 15 touchdowns and scored 10 more en route to setting a school single­season total offense mark with 2,526 yards. 
The biggest loss for the Cavaliers is John Ford, their all-time leading receiver. 
Notre Dame will be with­out defensive end Frank Starns and offensive tackle Andy Heck, both All Americans, as well as tail­back Mark Green and safety George Streeter. 
However, Rice and 16 other starters are scheduled to return next season and the Irish are expected to be highly ranked in the preseason poll. 
"We're delighted to have the opportunity to play," said North Dame coach Lou Holtz. 

P"""------------~---~-----~--------~------------~---~---------~--------------­
Thursday, January 19, 1989
page 12 The Observer 
Irish rebound after disappointing road losses 

Friday, January 20th 1:10 P.M. 
ND I SMC ID REQUIRED 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
After disappointing road losses to lightly regarded Val­paraiso and San Francisco over the holidays, the Notre Dame basketball team has returned to its early-season rhythm. 
At least that's what Irish co­ach Digger Phelps said after seeing his squad thump South­ern Methodist 67-45 Tuesday night at the Joyce ACC. 
"Our kids picked up where they left off in Los Angeles," said Phelps, referring to Notre Dame's 82-79 comeback win over UCLA Saturday. "We played well. I liked the rhythm the guys got into tonight, the aggressiveness I liked." 
Notre Dame (8-2) led by as many as 19 points in the first half on its way to a 32-20 ad­vantage at the intermission. The Irish then opened the second half with a 12-2 spurt and never were challenged again. 
It was not a happy homecom­ing for SMU coach John Shumate. His Mustangs were playing their first game with­out guard Kato Armstrong, lost for the year to academic in­eligibility. Armstrong scored 29 points when the Mustangs knocked Notre Dame out of the NCAA tournament last year and was leading the team with 
19.9 points per game. Without Armstrong, SMU (6­
7) failed to score until almost six minutes into the game, did not reach double figures until 
4:37 was left in the half and shot just 35 percent. Notre Dame was only 3-of-10 from the free throw line, but the Irish shot 60 percent from the field. 
Jamere Jackson and Keith Robinson each scored 10 points to lead the Irish, who got points from every player on the team except freshman guard Keith Adkins. Eric Longino and Tony Patterson led SMU with 12 points. 
ND 77, Creighton 64 
LaPhonso Ellis scored 17 points with five blocked shots as the Irish withstood a 28-point effort from Bluejay forward Bob Harstad at the JACC Dec. 10. 
Notre Dame maintained a slim lead over the game Creighton squad during the first half, then went on an eight-point run to lead 38-30 at halftime. 

The Irish could not pull away from the Bluejays mainly be­cause of the play of Harstad, who shot 10-of-18 from the field for the best scoring perfor­mance of his career. 
Joe Fredrick added 14 points for Notre Dame, while Jamere Jackson and Tim Singleton each chipped in 13. 
Valparaiso 71, ND 68 

Scott Anselm and Mike Jones led a three-point bomb attack that sparked the Crusaders to a thrilling overtime victory in 
front of an overflow crowd at 
the Athletics & Recreation 
Gymnasium. 
Notre Dame had a 43-21 
rebounding edge over Valpo, 
which had no player taller than 
6-7. But the Crusaders led 35-32 
at the half and stayed close 
with their 10 three-point goals. 
Anselm had three three-point 
goals and 21 points. Jones had 
four three-point goals and 19 
points. It was Curtiss Stevens, 
however, who hit the most im­
portant three-point shot of all, 
a bank shot in the last minute 
of regulation that cut Notre 
Dame's lead to two points. 
Singleton and Fredrick each 
missed the front ends of one­
and-one situations in the 
closing seconds, then Jones hit 
a layup at the buzzer to send 
the game into overtime. Valpo 
went on to outscore Notre 
Dame 7-4 in the overtime per­
iod. 
The Irish had not practiced 
the week preceding the game 
because of final exams. 
Fredrick led the Irish with 20 
points, and Jackson was next 
with 16. Ellis scored 15 points 
and pulled down 15 rebounds. 
The Irish shot 25-of-54 from the 
field during the game. 
ND 60, Penn 55 
Fredrick scored 20 points and 

Jackson added 19 as the Irish 
took advantage of the Quakers' 
icy shooting performance to 
win Jan. 3 at the Palestra. 

Penn shot 22-of-56, less than 40 percent, from the field, but the Quakers managed to stay close throughout the course of the game with its deliberate style of play. Tyrone Gilliams led Penn with 18 points. 
Notre Dame shot over 50 per­cent (22-of-43) from the field for the first time in five games, but the Irish shot only 15-of-25 from the free throw line. 
Penn's Walt Frazier, who was averaging 20 points per game, scored just five against Notre Dame. 
USF 79, ND 75 
Mark McCathrion scored 26 points to lead the Dons to the upset Jan. 6 at the Memorial Gymnasium, but some contro­versial officiating had Phelps livid at the end of the game. 
Officials Ron Lavetich and Jim Loustalot both already had worked several USF games this season. Phelps talked to Mike Gilleran, commissioner of officials for the Dons' West Coast Athletic Association, over a week before the game in hopes of changing the offi­cials, but he was not able to do so. 
San Francisco took 33 foul shots, while Notre Dame was only at the foul line 19 times. 
The Dons took an early 27-18 lead before Notre Dame went on a spurt to get in front. San Francisco's Shawn Sykes hit a 40-foot buzzer-beating shot to give the Dons a 41-40 halftime lead. 
Ellis led the Irish with 20 points and 14 rebounds. 
LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Toke o lolesovong Red Cross CPR course.
+American Red Cross 
rm 

ND 80, Portland 58 
Keith Robinson scored 20 points as the Irish, who led by just two points at halftime, handed Portland its twenty­first consecutive loss Jan. 9 at the Chiles Center. 
The Pilots, who were led by Josh Lowery's 18 points, trailed only 38-36 at the intermission. Notre Dame began the second half with an 18-2 run and out­scored Portland 42-22 in the last 20 minutes. 
Fredrick scored 17 for the Irish, Ellis added 16 and Jack­son had 13. Ellis led Notre Dame with 10 rebounds. 
Portland ended its losing streak, which had dated back to last season, with a victory over San Diego State last Sat­urday. 
ND 82, UCLA 79 
Ellis scored 24 points to lead 
THE THOMAS ). 

\ V lHITE CENTER WFORLAWAND GOVERNMENT 
Notre Dame Law School presents a lecture by 
Peter H. Rossi 

Prof. of Sociology and Acting Dir. Social & Demographic Research lnst. University of Massachusetts at Amherst. 
on "Down and Out in America" 
Noon Thursday, Jan. 19 Room 220 Law School Courtroom 
Presents: 
the Irish, who came back from big Bruin leads in both halves of the game Jan. 14 at Pauley Pavilion. 
UCLA's lead was in double figures during the first part of the game, but Notre Dame went on an 11-2 run late in the first half to cut the Bruin lead to four at halftime. 
The Bruins later held a lead of eight points. Notre Dame came back to get the win be­hind the play of Ellis, who scored 18 in the second half. 
Los Angeles Dodgers manager Tom Lasorda, a friend of Phelps as well as the manager of the world cham­pions, gave the Irish a pep talk 
the weekend of the game. 
The Observer 
Thursday, January 19, 1989 
The Observer page 13 
Illinois ends spectacular ND volleyball season 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
So close, yet so far. 
The cliche became reality for the Notre Dame women's vol­leyball team on Friday, Dec. 9, when it lost to fourth-ranked Il­linois in the second round of the NCAA tournament. 
The Irish battled the Illini for more than two hours before a noisy crowd of 1,769, but fell in five games, 5-15,9-15, 15-5,15-13 and 9-15 to an Illinois team which eventually advanced to · the Final Four by defeating Oklahoma the following night. 
Notre Dame's blockers could not stop the powerful Illini squad's attack, as four players recorded more than 15 kills. 

Julie Bremner 
Nancy Brookhart and three­time All-American Mary Eg­gers led Illinois with 20 and 19 kills, respectively, with Eggers hitting an impressive .500 per­cent at the net. 
The loss brought the Irish to 18-11 on the season, but the team crept to 15th in the final NCAA poll--the program's highest ranking ever--against the toughest schedule in the team's history. 
"Overall, I was very pleased with the way the team played against Illinois and the way they performed all season," said Irish head coach Art Lam­bert. "The girls faced a lot of adverse circumstances but they never gave up. I'm proud of that." 
The team's four seniors-­Zanette Bennett, Mary Kay Waller, Maureen Shea and Whitney Shewman--all turned in strong performances, with Bennett and Waller controlling the net. 
Bennett led the Irish with 19 kills for a .348 hitting percentage while also adding 10 digs to earn all-tournament honors. 
Waller helped the cause by tallying 18 kills for a .297 hitting percentage as well as a team­high 13 digs and seven total blocks. 
Junior Kathy Cunningham also did her share by recording a team-high .409 hitting percentage on 11 kills while adding 13 digs defensively. 
Setting and passing was han­dled expertly by freshman Julie Bremner, who provided her hit­ters with 56 assists and 12 digs. 
Waller and Bremner gar­nered North Central Region honors for their performances this season and both etched their names in the Notre Dame record books. 
Waller finished her career first in service aces and total blocks as well as block solos and assists, second in hitting percentage and third in kills and total attempts. 
Bremner took over as Notre Dame's most prolific setter with 1,340 assists in her first season and led the team in digs with 324, but has now left school after being chosen as one of two setters for the United States National Volleyball Team. 

NOW THAT YOU'RE FINISHED WHERE DO YOU START? 
Graduation probably represents the end of a race well run. 
But with every company telling you how bright your future is, how do you decide where to start your career? To begin, you'll have to ask the right questions. What are the entry-level jobs for someone with your major? How 
well will you be trained? Will you be pigeonholed, or will you have a chance to explore diverse career opportunities? 
The Travelers, a $50 billion insurance and financial services leader, offers positions in insurance, finance, actuarial, management, data proc­essing and much more. We have great training to start with, and varied career paths to pursue as you develop your skills. 
So, now that you're finished, why not start with The Travelers ... and begin the real race? 
We'll be on campus Wednesday, February 15th and Thursday, February 16th. To schedule an interview, you must sign up by Saturday, January 17th. 

The Travelers Companies, Hartford, Connecticut 06183. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 

Bunek lost for season 
By GREG GUFFEY Sports Writer 
The women's basketball 
team won five of eight games 
during break, but one particu­
lar loss could spell doom for the 
Irish. 
In the first half of the Dec. 
29 game against James 
Madison at the St. Joseph's In­
vitational, Notre Dame center 
Heidi Bunek suffered a knee in­
jury. She was forced to have 
reconstructive knee surgery 
and will miss the remainder of 
the season. 
The Irish lost that game to James Madison and then fell to Old Dominion and Vanderbilt in games with NCAA Tourna­ment implications. 
"We didn't have a chance to learn to play without her," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "The biggest thing we missed was her rebounding. We got crushed on the boards." 
At the time of the injury, the senior All-America candidate led the Irish in scoring at 16.2 points per game. She also led the team in rebounds with 7.5 boards per game. Bunek could play next season under the NCAA's medical hardship legislation. 
The Irish will be back in ac­tion tonight against Detroit in the JACC. The Midwestern Col­legiate Conference contest is set for 7:30p.m. Detroit is tied with the Irish for the confer­ence lead with victories over Dayton and Xavier. 
"They're really good," McGraw said. "It will be a good test for us." 
Notre Dame is 2-0 in the MCC after wins over Evansville and St. Louis. The Irish downed the Purple Aces 75-65 on the road last Thursday. Annie Schwartz and Sara Liebscher paced the Irish with 14 points each. Liebscher added 11 rebounds. 
"I think it was a very impor­tant game," McGraw said. "That was one of the tougher road games in the league. We feel we're off to a good start in the conference." 
Notre Dame defeated St. Louis 79-54 behind the 24 points of sophomore guard Karen Robinson. Robinson was a per­fect 12-of-12 from the field in that game. 
Other Irish wins came against Toledo, Youngstown State and Indiana. 


Thursday, January 19, 1989 
Doiit SquanderTime. 
Buy It.  
. '\nd plan it. And make the most  is looking for entry-level recruits  to graduate and undergraduate  
of it for some of this country's  for their Media Department.  students of every major.  
largest advertisers.  You'll learn about planning  So come find out more about  
Leo Burnett U.S.A., the world's  and buying advertising time and  Media, a career that puts plenty  
tenth largest advertising agency,  space. This presentation is open  of time in your hands.  

ACareer In Media·Thursday, January 19, 7:00pm· Alumni Room, Morris Inn 



../ 
Leo Burnett Company, Inc. 
We work for these great clients: Allstate, Amural. BASF. Beatrice. Black & Decker. Commonwealth Edison. Dean Willer. First Brands. General Motors, Harris Bank. H.l Heinz. Keebler, Kellogg. Kraft. Maytag. McDonald's. McDonald:~ Owners ofChicago & Nonhwestlndiana. Miller, Mrs. Smith's Frozen Foods Co., Noxe/1, Oldsmobile. I'Ppsico/Seuen-Up lnternatwnal, Philip Morris, Pillsbury, Procter & Gamble. Richardson-Vicks, Samsonite. Schenley, Seven-Up U.S.A.. Star-Kist, Teloction. Tropicana. United Airlines. Unoca/. 

Thursday, January 19, 1988 
The Observer page 15 
ND wrestlers look
Prep standout signs with ND 
UNIVERSITY OFFER 
Associated Press 
GOSHEN --Rick Mirer, who quarterbacked his high school team to a state football cham­pionship last fall, wants to help bring another national title to Notre Dame. 
The 6-foot-3, 210-pound Mirer announced his college choice at a news conference at the high 
Notre Dame (5-0) is
~~~~~~~--••••••-••~~~'~~~•II the (Notre Dame) athletes are 
ranked 16th Amateur 
KAREN GREEN We hope your 22nd BIRTHDAY was a special one. WITH LOVE -All your friends 
Gerardi has been making falls part of his normal
SPECIAL 
• 
• 

BEREA, OIUO: Tuesday,Ju.10 Baldwin·Wallace College Kulas Musical Arts Building 
Registration: 2:30 ·4:30p.m.
The Chicago Tribune will keep you informed on sports, current 
COLUMBUS, OIUO:

events, national employment trends, social issues, the economy Wednesday, Ju. 11 
Ohio State University

and global politics with award-winning, in-depth coverage of 
Hughes Hall the news-the kind of coverage you can't find on T.V. or radio. Registration: 5:30 •8:30 p.m.
• 
DAYTON, OIUO: Thursday, Ju. 12 Ramada Inn Airport (North) 4079 Little York Road

• 
Registration: 2:30 -5:30 p.m.
Order now to receive the Chicago Tribune for 40% Off. 
BOWLING GREEN, OIUO: 
• 
Friday, JaD. 13
-------------------------------• 
Bowling Green State University
D YES! Begin delivery of the Chicago Tribune. University Union· Ohio Suite Registration: 11:30 am. · 3 p.m. 
• 
• 
Order 0 Dolly/Sunday 0 Do1lyonly 0 Sunday only  40%off /week 5201 $126 s 75  #weeks  Amount paid  

ANN ARBOR, MICIUGAN: Monday,Ju.16 University of Michigan Michigan Union· Anderson Rm. 
Registration: 2:30-5:30p.m. 
MT. PLEASANT, MlCHIGAN:
0 Bill me 0 Payment enclosed (check or money order) 
• 
Tue!day, Ju. 17
o Visa o MasterCard Ace!# _____________Exprot1on dote ____ 
Central Michigan UniversitySgnoture_____________________________ Norvall C. Bovee Univ. Center Registration: 2:30-5:30 p.m.
Nome__________________________ Closs (F.S.J.S] 
YPSILAN11, MICHIGAN: Address/Dorrn ___________________Apt.!kbom ______ Wednesday,Ju. 18 Eastern Michigan University
Oty__________________Stote _____Zip_____ 
• 
McKenny Union Phone______________________________ Registration: 2:30 ·4:30p.m.
• 
KALAMAZOO, MICIUGAN: 
FBrmonent Address ___________________________ 
• 
Thursday, Jan. 19 
Western Michigan University

Oty__________________ State _____Zip______ 
Dalton Center, School of Music (Park at MiUer Auditorium)
Phone Offer expires March 31. 1989 
Registration: 2:30 •5:30 p.m. 

©1985 S. &!. Berenstain 

Mall to: Chicago Tribune Call: 435 N. Michigan Ave. 
1·800·TRIBUNE • CED\R POINF •
Room 504 Far further lnformatlon contact: IJve Sbow Audltlons
Chicago, il 60611 Operator 20 
P.O. Box 5006 Sandusky, Ohio 44871-8006 
--------------------------------• 419-627-2:tQO • 
school on Wednesday, picking the Irish over Michigan and In­diana. 
"One of my goals is to win a college national title, and the fact that Notre Dame just won one, I feel this is a place where if we get fired up it can be done again," said Mirer, a strong­arm passer who set a state record for season yardage and led unbeaten Goshen to 14 
to avoid upset bid
straight victories and the Class routine lately. The sopho­more from El Cajon, Calif., has pinned six of his last 10 opponents. 
Freshman Marcus Gowens, a 126-pounder from Dal City, Okla., also has been impressive while wres­tling between Andy Raden­baugh and Jerry Durso. The 118-pound Radenbaugh is on a pace to set the school record for wins in a season, and the 134-pound Durso is nearing the school mark for career victories. 
"Marcus Gowens has con­tributed some big wins for us," said McCann. "Andy Radenbaugh has been a con­sistent winner this year, and with Gowens and then Jerry coming in, we're always off to a good start." 
In other dual meets over the holidays, Notre Dame recorded a 23-15 win over Purdue, a 'l:l-13 victory over Adams State and a 44-0 tri­umph over Ohio. 
The win over Adams State avenged the 19-16 upset the Indians handed the Irish last season at Alamosa, Colo. The blanking of Ohio was Notre Dame's first shutout during the tenure of McCann, who has been coaching the Irish since the 1984-85 season. 
Notre Dame also com­peted in the Sunshine Open at Tampa, Fla., where the Irish placed fourth out of 41 teams. 

4A championship. 
His high school coach, Randy Robertson, said Mirer's deci­sion to attend Notre Dame "didn't surprise me at all. The fact it's close to home (20 miles) had some bearing. He's been there several times, and he's always commented how 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
Coming off a dramatic up­set of Ohio State earlier this week, the Notre Dame wres­tling team will try to make sure the tables aren't turned at Illinois State tonight at 7. 
like regular people. 
"I think he'll do very well," Robertson said. "But he's real­istic. He knows there's no way a freshman quarterback is ready to step in at that level. But he's willing to learn and he's a hard worker. He's very coachable and he'll continue to improve each season." 
Mirer, a two-time Associated Press first-team All-State se­lection, also was named na­tional high school quarterback of the year by several publica­tions. 
-He said another factor in his decision was Notre Dame's "great tradition" of quarter­backs. 
by Wrestling News and off to its best dual-meet start in five years, but the Redbirds traditionally are a tough foe for the Irish. Notre Dame beat Illinois State 26-14 last season for only its second win in the eight meetings be­tween the two schools. 
"They've always given us trouble over the years," said Irish coach Fran McCann. "We match up well with them, and I think we'll be ready to wrestle." 
In its last dual meet over the holidays, the Irish won a thrilling 21-18 decision at 15th-ranked Ohio State. Freshman Chuck Weaver defeated the Buckeyes' Ray Starkey 10-6 in the heavyweight match to give Notre Dame the win. 
"Chuck's win at heavyweight was big," said McCann, "but we had a couple of other people really come through for us. Curt Engler won at 190, and (Mark) Gerardi's fall at 158 brought us back into the run­ning." 
• 
Musicians • Performers • Technicians Interviews for teclmical positions and Berenstain BearsTM will begin when registration opens. Auditions for singers, musicians and emcees wiU begin as soon as these interviews are completed. 
MUNCIE, INDIANA: TueJday, Jan. 24 Signature Inn Comer of McGalliard and Bethel Roads Registration: 1:30-4:30 p.m. 
BLOOMINGTON, INDIANA: Wednesday,Ju.25 Indiana University Indiana Memorial Union· Alumni Hall Registration: 2:30-4:30p.m. 
URBANA, WJNOIS: Thursday, Jan. 26 University ofIllinois at Urbana-Champaign Krannert Center for the Performing Arts Registration: 6-8 p.m. 
KENT,OIUO: Monday, Jan. 30 Kent State University Student Center · Third Floor Registration: 2:30-5:30p.m. 
PfiTSBURGH, PA.: 
Tuesday, Jan. 31 University Inn Forbes at McKee Place Registration: 2:30. 5:30p.m. 
AKRON, OHIO: Wednesday, Feb. 1 University of Akron Gardner Student Center Registration: 2-5 p.m. 
SANDUSKY, OIDO: Thursday,Feb.2 Cedar Point Park Attractions Office Rehearsal Studios Registration: 10 a.m.-4 p.m. 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 

----------~---~ 
rwr :I.I 
page 16 The Observer Thursday, January 19, 1989 
Talk 
continued from page 20 
"I wanted to know if our players were talking to the West Virginia players, and I wanted to know if there was any foul language being used," he said. "I can tell you that, on both counts, that was not the case. Our players thought they were being held and they did some things out offrustration." 
Holtz said he did not fault senior linebacker Wes Pritchett for a late hit on Moun­taineer quarterback Major Harris in the third quarter, when Pritchett appeared to be in full stride as the ball was released. 
The only late hit Holtz singled out by Holtz as being obvious was Todd Lyght's tackle of Grantis Bell after Bell's third­quarter touchdown reception. 
"We want to play aggressive football, but when the whistle's 
Defense 
continued from page 20 
our defense has done time and time again this year. 
"We felt that we had to stop (West Virginia's) power run­ning game and the deep pass­ing threat and I think we ac­complished that. We also had to contain Major Harris and disrupt his rhythm., and I think we did a pretty good job of that as well." 
That's quite an understate­ment. The Irish more than halved West Virginia's season rushing average of 293 yards per game (141) and held leading rusher A. B. Brown to 49 yards. Thus the vaunted power running game was eliminated. 
Harris completed only one pass over 17 yards all game, a 36-yarder to Reggie Rembert which set up the Mountaineers' field goal before the end of the first half. So much for the deep passing threat. As they had during most of the regular season, the Irish defense refused to give up the big play. Instead, they made most of them themselves. 
It was apparent from the out­set that Harris' rhythm would be disrupted when, on the game's first series, Mike Stonebreaker's jarring tackle dislocated the West Virginia quarterback's left shoulder on an end run, an injury which hampered his performance during the rest of the game. But even a healthy Harris would have had his problems with the defense when, according to Mountaineer center Kevin Koken, "sometimes it seemed like (Notre Dame) had 16 players on the field." 
"We weren't surprised about how good their defense was," said West Virginia head coach Don Nehlen. "They are ranked in the top five in the country defensively, but the tape (used 

,, 
to scout the defense) doesn't 

u show how fast they run. They've got great team speed. They can run like the devil." 
I! 
' 
LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Take o ltlesov•ng Red Cross CPR course.
+American Red Cross !!.!! 
blown, you don't hit anybody," Holtz said. "I'll promise you this--you won't see that again." 
One Notre Dame personal foul gave the Mountaineers their initial first down of the game with less than 10 minutes to play in the second quarter. Another 15-yard penalty on the same drive led to West Vir­ginia's first points of the game on a 29-yard field goal by Charlie Baumann. 
Both Mountaineer touch­down drives included at least one personal foul against Notre Dame. The last one was helped by four Irish penalties in the final minutes of the game. 
As for the bad-mouthing, the Irish aren't so sure they deserve to wear the black hel­mets all the time. 

"There were definitely some words exchanged," Pritchett said. "But it went both ways. It definitely wasn't one-sided. That's always going to happen in a game as big as this one." 
From the big stand in the third quarter to the typical, gamelong wearing down of their opponent's front line, it was only fitting that the mem­bers of the Irish defense led the way to a national champion­ship. It's the kind of thing they had done all year long. 
•

WVU dream ends 1n despair 
By MARTY STRASEN 
Sports Editor 

TEMPE, Ariz.--The West Virginia Mountaineers charged into the 1989 Fiesta Bowl ranked third and feeling underrated. 
They hobbled out ranked fifth--feeling undermanned and overpowered after a sound thrashing at the hands of Notre Dame. 
If anything, the pre-game polls had West Virginia a little higher than it ought to have been. The Mountaineers had faced nothing remotely resem­bling the Fighting Irish over the course of their 11-0 regular season. 
"Notre Dame is a better foot­ball team than we are," West Virginia head coach Don Neb­len said after the Irish won the 1988 national championship with a 34-21 victory over the Mountaineers. "They beat us up." 
"Sometimes it seemed like they had about 16 players on the field,'' added Mountaineer center Kevin Koken. 
All-America linebacker Mi­chael Stonebreaker dislocated the left shoulder of West Vir-ginia's heralded quarterback, Major Harris, when Stonebreaker tackled Harris on the third play from scrim­mage. Harris throws with his right arm, but said his running ability was impaired because of the injury. 

"Scrambling-wise, it hurt my performance," said Harris, who gained only 11 yards rush­ing, far short of his regular­season average of 54 per game. "Running the option was tough. Every time I landed, it hurt." 
Notre Dame sacked Harris three times and consistently beat West Virginia's big offen­sive line to apply pressure. The Mountaineers gave up only 13 sacks over the course of the regular season. 
But Harris was not the only victim. Three other Moun­taineers were knocked out of the game early because of in­juries. 
Starting left guard John Stroia and middle guard Jim Gray suffered concussions in the first quarter, while fullback Undra Johnson was forced out with a knee injury before halftime. 
Stonebreaker was the only Irish casualty. The junior rein­jured his ankle in the first quar­ter and missed most of the game. 
"I feel badly for our guys, be­cause I think we're better than we showed," Nehlen said. 
The average margin of vic­tory for the Mountaineers in 1988 was more than 27 points. 
The Mountaineers defeated Pitt and Penn State by larger margins than did the Irish, but West Virginia's 1988 schedule also included the likes of Bowling Green, Cal State Fullerton, Maryland, Virginia Tech, East Carolina and Cin­cinnati. 
"They're a doggone physical football team," Nehlen said of Notre Dame. "It was obvious from where I was standing that they were better than we were on offense and defense. They normally blew us out on both sides of the ball. 
"They're pretty good football players, No. 1. They're pretty big football players, No. 2. And they're quick as the devil, No. 
3. I think those three things had something to do with what hap­pened." 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND 
SHERATON CONOO OR HOTEL, HOL/OAY INN, GULF VIEW OR 
$14t1* 

LANDFALL TOWER CONDOS • 5 OR 7NIGHTS yoll( 7 
STEAMBOAT 
SHADOW RUN CONDOS OR OVERLOOK HOTEL • 5 OR 7 NIGHTS LODGING-LIFTS-PICNIC-RACE-GOODIE BAG! 
fo~213* 

DAYTONA BEACH 
TEXAN HOTEL AND KITCHENETTES 7NIGHTS 
fl118* 


PORT ROYAL CONDOS 50R 7NIGHTS 
f~136* 

HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND BEACH & TENNIS RESORT 7NIGHTS 
f!10l* 

Thursday, January 19, 1989 
The Observer page 17 
ND hockey squad looking for storybook ending 
By FRANK PASTOR halting the losing skid, it posting a 6-0 shutout in the first Notre Dame 7-5 in the consola­chin just over 10 minutes into Sports Writer represented Notre Dame's first round of the RPI Tournament tion game. the third period of the first win over a top-quality opponent 
One of the most frustrating in some time. chapters in the annals of Notre The Irish recorded their Dame hockey graciously came highest scoring outputs of the to a conclusion over Christmas season in the two victories over break. Now the Irish hope to Arizona. Tim Kuehl scored four add a storybook ending of their goals and added two assists to own to a season wrought with pace the offense in a 10-5 win unfulfilled promise. over the Ice Cats on Jan. 13. 
Notre Dame (6-20-2) won Eight Irish players scored the three of eight games and following night as Notre Dame snapped its school-record 14-crushed the Cats 9-2. game losing streak during a "It was exciting to be a part recent 19-day roadtrip. The of it," said Irish coach Ric Irish swept two games from Schafer of the two-game series Arizona and split their series which drew over 11,000 people.against Army. They also lost to "We made some improvement. RPI, Air Force, Boston College We started to score some goals. and Merrimack on the road. But the fact remains, we're 
The most important Irish win playing some tough teams." was their 5-2 victory over the One of those "tough teams," Cadets on Jan. 3. In addition to RPI, had the Irish reelinj after 
Two plays after the Moun­taineers cut the Irish lead to
Irish 
26-13 on a 17-yard touchdown
continued from page 20 
pass from Harris to Grantis 213 yards and two touchdowns Bell, Willie Edwards picked off to earn the game's offensive Rice's underthrown pass in­Most Valuable Player award. tended for Tony Brooks at the 
Harris completed 13 of 26 Notre Dame 26-yard line. passes for 166 yards, including But instead of letting the one interception and one touch­Mountaineers pull closer, the down. Irish defense pushed West Vir­
Rice's only obvious mistake ginia 14 yards further from the seemed to give West Virginia end zone. Notre Dame defen­a lift late in the third quarter, sive end Flash Gordon stopped but the Irish defense quickly Harris for a two-yard loss, cor­turned the tide back in Notre nerback Stan Smagala broke Dame's favor. up a pass for Bell in the end 
THE SMC-ND COLLEGIATE CHOIR 
announces 
AUDITIONS 

for Spring Semester -Openings in all Sections: 
and BASS 
audition time 
on Jan. 29. The Engineers be­The Irish fared better 
came the first team to hold against sixth-ranked Boston 
Notre Dame scoreless in 72 College on Jan. 5, battling back 
games. from a 5-1 deficit to close the Boston College lead to 6-5 in the third period. The Eagles added an insurance goal with less than two minutes remaining in the contest to win 7-5. 
• 

The Boston College game represented a homecoming of sorts for senior goaltender Mark O'Sullivan, who started in goal for the Irish. He playedthe first minute of the game before yielding the net to in­cumbent Lance Madson. 



Ric Schafer O'Sullivan played a bigger role in Notre Dame's sweep of Air Force took advantage of Arizona, subbing for the in­five first period goals to defeat jured Madson. Madson hurt his 
zone and defensive Most Valu­conversion that gave Notre able Player Frank Starns Dame a 34-13 lead. ended any further hopes of a The Mountaineers scored on Mountaineer score by dropping Reggie Rembert's three-yard Harris for a 12-yard sack on a run with 1: 14 to play to make third-down blitz. the final score seem more 
"The house was on fire and respectable. we had to put the fire out," But from the time the pre­Starns said. "That turned the game festivities concluded un­momentum around for us." til hundreds of Notre Dame 
"Sometimes what looks like fans swarmed the field in the a bad situation can break the final seconds, the Irish were in game open," Holtz added. complete control. "What I mean is--you give The Mountaineers ran three them a chance, and then you plays and punted on each of shut them down. That really their first four possessions of demoralizes a team." the game, and Harris bruised 
Notre Dame then marched 80 his left shoulder when Irish yards in seven plays on the next linebacker Michael series, which featured a 15-Stonebreaker brought him yard quarterback draw by Rice down on the third play from on a third-and-six play and a scrimmage. 57-yard completion to sopho­"It affected my scram­
more flanker Ricky Watters bling," Harris said. "There down the left sideline. was a lot of pain. I think it af­fected the whole team. Our 
Rice hit tight end Frank timing wasn't on." Jacobs from three yards out on Rice's was. a play-action jump pass for the While the Mountaineers touchdown. Rice kept the ball stumbled out of the starting on the option for a two-point blocks, Rice and the Irish 
000 Baby Baby
We'll take . you outside... and not even 
mess up our hair..... . 
Low. Yoor Vaultmates 
Attention Juniors 
Rooms will be available at The Morris Inn for Junior Parents Weekend 
A lottery will be held for any Juniors who would like their parents to stay at the Morris Inn during JPW 
Lottery Sign-Ups: 
Mon Jan 23 7-9 305 Reynolds Room LaFortune 
Tues Jan 24 7-9 305 Reynolds RoomLaFortune 

game when he collided with an Arizona player. O'Sullivan earned the start the following night and stopped 27 shots. 
"It was fun. The guys did a great job in just protecting me," said O'Sullivan after his first complete game of the season. "I wanted to make sure the guys had confidence in me. I wanted to make sure not to give up a goal in the first per­iod." 
Madson, expected to return to the lineup in time for Friday's game against Lake Forest, enjoyed another fine roadtrip. He turned away 34 shots against Boston College and made 50 saves in a 6-0 loss to Merrimack on Jan. 7. 
swept ahead 16-0. 
The 6-foot-1 junior broke con­tainment and sprinted 31 yards on a third-down play in Notre Dame's opening drive, which ended in a 45-yard field goal by Billy Hackett. 
Rice finished the day with a game-high 75 yards rushing on 13 carries. 
The Woodruff, S.C., native then showed everyone he can throw the ball as well, firing a 23-yard completion to fresh­man tight end Derek Brown on the next series, which cul­minated in junior fullback An­thony Johnson's one-yard touchdown plunge on a fourth-and-goal play. 
Rice again found Brown in the second quarter, this time on a 47-yard hookup that set up freshman Rodney Culver's four-yard touchdown run for a 16-0 Notre Dame advantage. 
"I went straight upfield and ran right at the defender's (Lawrence Drumgoole's) toes," said Brown, who was dragged down at the 5-yard line by safety Bo Orlando. "Once I faked outside, I knew I had him beat. Tony threw it perfectly. I thought I was going to score." 
The Mountaineers finally 
scored on their next drive, set­tling for a 29-yard field goal by Charlie Baumann after an ap­parent touchdown pass from Harris to Jamie LeMon was called back because Harris threw the ball from beyond the line of scrimmage. 
Rice then continued his aerial assault on West Virginia, firing a bullet to freshman speedster Raghib "Rocket" Is­mail, who found an opening downfield and raced in for a 29­yard touchdown to give Notre Dame a 23-3 lead. 
"I knew all along that Tony (Rice) was a great passer, but nobody believed me," Ismail said. "If they don't believe Tony Rice can throw the ball now, they'll never believe." 

PREGNANr 
MOTHERS: 
PLWE DON'T SMOKE! 
tAMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY' 


., 
~~ 
I \ ~ 
li
i; 
I ..... 
l l 
Ilf 
l1l 
ill 
dJ 
iii,,. 
I.
,_. 
\!; 
iii 
Iii 
l; 
j 
,\( 
·'II !' 
I 
I: 
II'
(
\I·
\ 
!I 
t 
l I 
II 
I 
j: 1\ 
II 
\, 
,I 

page 18 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
Bengal Bouts training is being held Monday through Saturday from 4 p.m. to 5:30p.m. Training is at the boxing gym near Gate 3 of the Joyce ACC. -The Observer 
The NO Synchronized Swimming Club will meet tonight at 7 in Rolfs Aquatic Center. New members are welcome. Any questions should be directed to Tara Creedon at x3867. -The Observer 
The NO Tae Kwon Do Club will hold its first meeting and demonstration for the spring semester on Tuesday, Jan. 24, at 8:30p.m. in the Joyce ACC fencing gym. New members are welcome, and current members also should be present. Any questions should be directed to Richard Jennings at x1943. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Rice 
continued from page 20 
field goal by Billy Hackett. 
Late in the first half, after a questionable no-call on a beautifully thrown bomb to Raghib Ismail, Rice delivered again on third and 10 to Derek Brown, whose 47-yard recep­tion set up a Rod Culver score and a 16-{) Irish lead. 
And while touchdown passes to Ismail and Frank Jacobs il­lustrated just how far Rice has come with respect to the ac­curacy and touch on his passes, his biggest plays of the game came at the only time in which the Mountaineers ever truly threatened, with the score 26-13 and the tide beginning to turn West Virginia's way. 
On the first play of the third quarter, facing yet another long third down deep in Irish territory, Rice got 15 on a quar­terback draw up the middle. Not only did it keep the drive alive, but it set up the next play­-a perfectly-tossed 57-yard mis­sile to Ricky Watters down to the Mountaineer five-yard line. Rice's ensuing flip to Jacobs and conversion run over left tackle put the game out of reach. 

Soon it's going to be difficult for Rice to play the underdog every week at the quarterback position, and his play even drew uncustomary praise from Holtz. 
"I thought Tony Rice just played great," said Holtz, who challenged Rice to an end-of­the-season darts game to check the progress of his accuracy. "Tonight, he went a long way to my calling him a good pas­ser. And I just might have to try to duck out of that darts game." 
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY :JEFF 

Love, Aggie, Louise.the 
Bassoonist, the 
BR, Marty, Steve, 
Paul, 2 Lauras, & 
Somebody Else. 

TELEPHONE REGISTRATION IS COMING, BUT 
WE NEED A NAME! 
The Office of the Registrar is sponsoring a CONTEST to fmd the best name for our new telephone registration system. The winner will receive a $100 Gift Certificate to the University Park Mall. If you have any ideas, please sharpen your pencils and enter. 
RULES: 

Please include:  Your idea(s)  
Your name  
Address  
Telephone number  
Send entry to:  Telephone Registration Name  
Registrar's Office  
215 Administration Building  
University of Notre Dame  
Notre Dame, Indiana  46556  

Entries must be received by 5 PM, January 20, 1989. 
The contest is open to all Notre Dame students, faculty, staff, and their families. 
If there is more than one entry with the winning name, the entry received first will be the winner. All entries will become the property of the Office of the Registrar and will be used as we see fit. Judging will be done by the Registrar's Office staff. 
Thursday, January 19, 1989
The Observer 

Becker cruises in first round 
Associated Press 

MELBOURNE, Australia -­Boris Becker, playing his first outdoors match in four months, breezed past Kelly Evernden of New Zealand 7-5, 6-1, 6-3 Thursday to advance to the third round of the Australian Open tennis championships. 
"I played much better than I did in the first round," said Becker, whose last outdoor match was a second-round loss to Darren Cahill at the U.S. open in early September. "If I keep playing like this, I'll be happy." 
Olympic champion Miloslav Mecir also moved into the third round with a 6-2, 6-7 (4-7), 7-6 (7-2), 6-2 victory over Australian Mark Kratzmann. 
Mecir, the No.9 seed, said he has recovered from a virus that forced him to pull out of the New South Wales Open in Syd­ney last week. 
"I felt pretty good," the Czec­hoslovak said. "I've had a few days off and I'm feeling stronger.'' 
Kratzmann, a former U.S. open junior champion ranked 115th in the world, said Mecir took advantage of his erratic serve. 
"I did not serve well enough today," Kratzmann said. "I was under pressure all the 
BUY 

OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
time." 

In late women's matches Wednesday, top-seeded Steffi Graf blanked Rene Simpson of Canada 6-{), 6-0 and No. 3 Gabriela Sabatini beat Con­chita Martinez of Spain 3-6, 6-1, 6-2 to move into the third round of the year's first Grand Slam tournament. 
Fifth-seeded Jakob Hlasek was upset by Cahill 6-4, 6-7 (7­9), 6-3, 7-6 (9-7) in a first-round men's match. 
Cahill, a surprise semi­
~----------~~~~~~ 
~( 
t 
REMINDER TO URBAN PLUNGE STUDENTS @> UP REflECTION PAPERS DUE JRN.20 NOON 
at the Center for Social Concerns ~ follow-up Discussion '*" January 29 in the Library Auditorium 

7:00 pm ­
Ill...
H1n11,:;:..,. 
Dt·lJt·*l 
Dt-1Jt·· 
'-'" 
....­

finalist at last year's U.S. open, was the second Australian to eliminate a top-10 seed in the opening round. Countryman Mark Woodforde ousted No. 8 Yannick Noah on Tuesday night. 
"Mark's win was great, but it didn't make it any easier for me," Cahill said. "I still had to go out there and play good ten­nis." 
Graf overwhelmed Simpson, who won just six points in the first set and 26 in the match. 
I 0:00 pm 
• 
Fre4uc:nt special offers and discounts 

• 
Avadahle only to Notre Dame Students, Faculty and Staff 

• 
Fast, FREE delivery to ;my point on campus 


Order one today ;m,l watch it disappear! 239-2391 or 239-6930 5:30p.m. to 12:30 a.m. 
vtPREclt 
~(\~ COJ!A~~ 
"~at.,~l mr~=~ 1L
Where our pizza is a treasure 


Now Get Great Pizza Faster Than a Leprechaun 
Can Vanish! 
Got a craving for a mid­night study snack? Want to share great "finger food" with that special date? How about a party? Invite the Leprechaun. 
• Piping hot, cheezy pizza with your choice of toppings (pep­peroni, sausage, ham, mush­rooms, olives, green peppers, 
onions, tomatoes, and more) 
• More economical than other 
brands:  
10"  12"  
Plain Cheese  $5.00  $ 7.00  
I li.1pping  6.00  8.25  
2 li.1ppings  6. 75  9.25  
3 li.1ppings  7. 50  10.25  
5 + li.1ppings  9.00  12.25  

Thursday, January 19, 1989 page 19
The Observer 
CAMPUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
12 p.m. Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government, "Down and Out in America," 220 Law School courtroom. 
7 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents a reception for all students interested in career opportunities with Leo Burnett Media in the Alumni Room, Morris Inn. 
7:30p.m. Women's Basketball vs. Detroit, Joyce ACC. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Tuna Muffin French Bread Pizza Pot Roast Salisbury Steak Baked Sole Florentine Quiche Mushroom Stroganoff Deli Bar 
55 Gathered a hot-dog 
ACROSS 32 Melvrlle work 
1 Not fem. or neut 33 Passage 
condiment? 5 Young hooter 34 Govt org. once 
58 Like some
headed by Bush
10 "Nature's seamen nurse"· Shak 
35 AM sorrow? 

59 'Remember the 14 Mine, to Mimr 39 Before. rn poetry 
40 Srte of witch
trials
16 "I cannot tell 61 Require
41 Fairy-tale opener 62 Tightwad
42 Barber or11 Warlrke officers? 
63 Color called 20 Snarl 
Buttons goose gray
43 Unrque person 
21 Little spotted 44 Thrustskunk 

DOWN
46 Harte's22 Playing card 
Poker­
1 A Lansbury role 23 Splotch 47 Not flaccid 2 To-(wrth no25 Shrewder 
48 Brought to court exceptron)28 --deforce 
51 Succession: 3 Classify 29 Afncan cobra series 
4 Tnple Crown wrnner· 1948 
5 Medieval ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE catapult 
6 Cox of early 1V 7Gimlet 

ingredient 
24 Congressman's 33 Ornamental tag 49 Cartoonist 8 Braun or Gabor plum Goldberg
36 Wagner heroine 
9 Thrice, in 50 Homophone for
25 Yuppie, e.g. 

37 Zola novel 
prescriptions 33 Across 
26 Love, in Livorno 


.._> . OJ/l
• 0 
""""==+=+:-:-1 10 Sir, to Hindus 38 Nitrogen or 51 A neighbor of
~ 

27 Stuck a torero carbon Wyo.
11 King of Norway 12 Rank's 28 Colleague of 19 44 Tequila, e.g. 52 Houston org.
~ i I companion Down 45 Extinct wild ox 53 Stuff \ ' 54 Best or Ferber
13 Criterion 29 Serving winners 46 Entertained an
5tt DICI( 0 ~·f\.1 
56 Sound at a

D(IV[ honoree
~EC [)1('/( DUlD I 18 Concerning 30 Because seance 
47--fatale
19 Track official 31 Summoned. as 57 A descendant of 23 Heart or affection at a hotel 48 Govt agent Aaron
Don't drink and drive 
A publtc servtce message tr!"':~ rr ot Observer 

COMICS 


Wish your friend_s a happy birthday with Observer advertising. 

Call 239-6900 

Jerks 
AS 1(£'/!H 6RAV~S THE' ~OC.KY MOUNTAINS AND TH€ GREAT PL A IN~ 114 TH~ GR\JQ.Itl6 TRIP f~OM TACOMA, "tttA. 1"0 LOV/;t..Y 50\ITH 15END... 
... ANI> BOB C.RDSSE:S 
~ GREAT OHIO 
DE'ATH STRETCH 11-1 

HIS RETURN FROM 
~UNN"t fllfSBUR6H ... 
Bob Mclaughlin & Kevin McKay 
IU.. ANYO"'E THE "ITOF 'HOliDAY 
16HT' I:. HA'IE GAI/'IED? H 

Think of your best friend. 
Now, thj.nk of your best friend dead. 

-· 


-


Sports
Thursday, January 19, 1989 

ND buries Mountaineers for national title 

Victory caps perfect year 
By MARTY STRASEN Sports Editor 

TEMPE, Ariz.-As Notre Dame put the finishing touches on its eighth national champi­onship, most television viewers were watching a game between two teams the Irish already had beaten. 
The "Battle for No. 1" was a lopsided game compared to Michigan's 22-14 Rose Bowl victory over Southern Califor­nia. But for Notre Dame, a 34-21 thrashing of West Vir­ginia in the Sunkist Fiesta Bowl was the perfect ending to a per­fect season. 
The Irish reigned in 1988, and on the second day of 1989 they claimed their crown in convinc­ing fashion. 
"I've underestimated this team in a lot of areas," said Irish head coach Lou Holtz, who guided his team to the first 12-0 season in Notre Dame's storied history. "They've done everything I've asked of them. Is this a great football team? I'd have to say yes, because nobody proved it wasn't." 
Certainly not the Moun­\ ·, taineers, whose hopes of a na­I; tional championship vanished 
early in the one-sided affair. 

A record crowd of 74,911 saw a stingy Irish defense shut down yet another high-powered offense led by a big-name quar­terback. Major Harris and the Mountaineers were no match for Notre Dame, which out­gained West Virginia 455-282 yards on the day and did not allow a first down until nearly six minutes into the second quarter. 
The 282-yard total was West Virginia's lowest of the season. 
"They're a doggone physical football team," said West Vir­ginia coach Don Nehlen. "They were better than us on both sides of the ball." 
Irish quarterback Tony Rice stole the show from Harris, completing 7 of 11 passes for 
see IRISH, page 17

,'i 
ND defense dominates 
By PETE SKIKO Assistant Sports Editor 
TEMPE, Ariz. After thoroughly demoralizing the normally potent West Virginia offense for two-and-a-half quarters, the Notre Dame defense was about to face its first real challenge of the Fiesta Bowl. 
Leading 26-13, the Irish looked to have things well in hand, even though a Major Harris-to-Grantis Bell touch­down hookup had just brought the Mountaineers within two scores. 
But passing from his own 19­yard line, Tony Rice fired a bul­let right into the chest of West Virginia linebacker Willie Ed­wards. His return to the Notre Dame 26-yard line put the Mountaineers in business and the Irish defense right back onto the field. 
Lou Holtz best described what happened next. 
"We had agreed beforehand that whatever (West Virginia) did, we weren't going to flinch," said Holtz. "The defense just said, 'We're a total team. The offense made a· mis­take and we've got to go out and put out the fire."' 
First down: Flash Gordon stuffs Harris for a loss of two. Second down: Stan Smagala breaks up Harris' toss to Bell in the endzone. Third down: Frank Starns and Arnold Ale team up to bury a scrambling Harris for a loss of 12. Fourth down: Out of field goal range 
at the Irish 40, West Virginia punts into the Notre Dame endzone. 
The Irish then marched 80 yards in seven plays for the touchdown that iced the game. 
"Our defense responded when they had to," said Holtz of the key defensive stand of the game. "But I expected that it would. It's the kind of thing 
see DEFENSE, page 16 
; ! ~ 

I:· Rice outshines another star 

By PETE SKIKO Assistant Sports Editor 

I : TEMPE, Ariz.-Notre "i:' Dame's 34-21 win over West li ' Virginia in the Fiesta Bowl in­'i ! cluded plenty of examples of what all the talk before a big game usually amounts to-just 

that, talk. 
Take Tony Rice, for instance. 
Judging from the pregame hype, it's not too surprising that one of the Fiesta Bowl quarterbacks threw for 213 yards on seven attempts, rushed for 75 yards on only 13 carries and generally made the big plays when his team needed them. 
When you figure that one finished fifth in the Heisman Trophy balloting and made up the bulk of an offense which outscored its opponents by an average of 27 points a game, and the other was largely over-

The Observer I Michael Moran 
eighth national championship, more than any other college football team. 
Sunklst Fiesta Bowl. The win gave the Irish their 
Bad-mouthing reputation sticks with Irish 
By MARTY STRASEN Sports Editor 

TEMPE, Ariz.--Somewhere along the road to the 1988 national football championship, the Fighting Irish earned a reputation as "the bad guys." 
Their performance in the Fiesta Bowl did nothing to change that image. Notre Dame was flagged for 11 penalties--eight of the personal foul and late hit variety --in its 34-21 victory over West Virginia. 
In the game's final minutes, Irish head coach Lou Holtz raced across the field to find out just who was saying or doing what to whom. Holtz himself was hit with a 15-yarder for his action, which amounted to nothing compared to the late hits and verbal outbursts for which the Irish were being penalized throughout the game. 
Senior cornerback D'Juan Francisco was ejected in the game's final minutes for knocking 
shadowed by his running backs, his team's defense and his own reputation as a wild passer, it isn't shocking that one came through to lead his team to ·a national champion­ship. 
And while most of the speculators marveled at which of the two rose to the forefront, Tony Rice, the quarterback in question, was happy to play the underdog to West Virginia quarterback Major Harris, right to the end. 
"I was kind of glad Major took the pregame glory," said Rice after dissecting the West Virginia's secondary for several long pass plays, includ­ing two touchdowns. "I just wanted to go out, have some fun and play ball. I wasn't in­terested in comparing myself to Major Harris. He is obvi­ously a great quarterback." 
But he had just thrown for the hat off the-head of an official after a West Virginia pass play in the end zone. 
West Virginia committed only three penalties for 38 yards. 
"They've got to clean up their act," said West Virginia center Kevin Koken of Notre Dame. "They've got to learn some class. That's prob­ably the worst bad-mouth team I've ever played." 
Holtz also expressed displeasure, but was not quite as quick on the trigger as Koken. 
"Our players thought they were being held by West Virginia and they were telling the of­ficials that they thought penalties should have been called," Holtz said after the game. "We had no right to say it. Our players were in the wrong 100 percent." 
In a press conference the next morning, Holtz explained his reasons for running onto the field and accepting yet another penalty. 
see TALK, page 16 
more yards than any West Vir­ginia opponent had all year and rushed for 75 yards against a defense which was ranked 18th in the nation coming in. How did he rate his performance on the afternoon? 
"I'd give myself a 'B', I guess," said the junior, who has obviously taken Downplay­ing 101 from Head Coach Lou Holtz. "I don't think it was my best game. They showed us a lot of man-to-man in the sec­ondary. There was almost no way I could have missed most of my receivers." 
Modesty aside, Rice played virtually mistake-free football (save one interception) which, at times, bordered on sensa­tional. His third-down scramble for 31 yards enabled the Irish to put the game's first points on the board, a 45-yard 
see RICE, page 18 
• 
-44.-~· ~ 2 . . t. . .. . .. . ..A-:··:/.~ 7., ·' '··, .. • ~· . ,. . , .., ·. . 
0 
,· ° ' 00 A ·:;;:• ~:.(..• ~-.1_ •• _...!.• ­
O 
0 

OBSERVER SPECIAL SECTION 

.·, 
--..... '· . . ­

A YEAR TO REMEMBER 
A look at the 1988 Fighting Irish football team 


·. ,:_,; 

r~t!f.'l:4National Champions 
:ll~~tf~·. 

. .· -· 
~~~~ ~~--------------------------------­
L . ------­

A Year to Remember 
page 2 Thursday, January 19, 1989 

Don't believe a word he says 
Holtz makes sure the Irish are better than he rates them 
By MARTY STRASEN Sports Editor 
To a group of freshmen in the winter of 1985-86, Lou Holtz was the man who was making them wake up at 6 a.m. to work out and vomit. 
Those freshmen are now seniors. And national cham­pions. 
''During winter conditioning we learned what it takes to win football games," senior Mark Green said of the workouts that soon became known as "pukefests." 
"Those days were hell," Green continued. "Guys puking all over the place. If that's not going to bring a team together, I don't know what will." 
When he was chosen to replace Gerry Faust at the Irish helm after the 1985 season, Holtz met with a team that had little confidence after its 58-7 loss at Miami. In three years, he turned it into a team that recorded the first 12-0
.. season in Notre Dame history. Holtz is a disciplinarian and a comedian. But most of all, Holtz is a win­ner. 
"If somebody had an assign­
ment to mold a Knute Rockne 
and a Frank Leahy, they
The Observer I Michael Moran 

couldn't have done a better job Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz, who had turned programs around than Lou Holtz," says Athletic at North Carolina State, Arkansas and Minnesota, was named Coach Director Dick Rosenthal. "He of the Year after completing his most famous reclamation project is Notre Dame." to date. Just two years after going 5-6, the Holtz-led Fighting Irish Although Holtz now has 
are the national champions. 
MVP Rice 
By THERESA KELLY Assistant Sports Editor 
When Notre Dame faced Miami in The Game, Hurricane quarterback and Heisman trophy candidate Steve Walsh threw for 424 yards, completing 31-of-50 passes. 
Of course, he lost. 
When the Irish faced USC in The other Game, all eyes were on Rodney Peete, another quarterback, another Heisman trophy candidate. Peete did not fare so well, 23-of-44, 225 yards, still respectable numbers. 
He lost, too. 
When the Irish played Yet Another Game, Major Harris was the big story as he racked up yardage and victories in the regular season. 
Needless to say... he lost, too. 
The quarterback who led his team to victory on the field, but not in The Hero Who Will Save Our Team From Doom voting, was Notre Dame junior Tony Rice. 
Rice, from Woodruff, S.C., has proven that despite the hype, the build-up, the statis­tics and the awards, he is the one who knew how to win. 
Irish head coach Lou Holtz spent the week before the Fiesta Bowl saying "we can't pass." Rice must have been lis­tening to the symphony or throwing darts or something. 
What was Rice's reaction to being the unknown quarter­back in these situations? 
"He's a great quarterback," Rice said in the midst of the pre-game build-up of Peete, "but I'm not playing against 
pulled off the same feat Rockne 
overcomes one-dimensional 
Tony Rice sprints away from Trojan cornerback Tracy Butts formed Helsman Trophy candidate Rodney Peete In the game, down the Notre Dame sideline with the first points of the USC largely due to a hard-charging Irish defense. 
game, a 65-yard romp around left end. Rice clearly outper­
him. I'm playing against his passing, hitting Raghib Ismail with the Notre Dame team, and defense." and Frank Jacobs for touch­they respect him." 
Against that defense, Rice downs. He also rushed for 75 spelled trouble for the Trojans yards on 13 carries. Rice is one guy who certainly with his running as well as his "I worry about him every had to earn his respect. After passing, racking up 86 yards on time he touches the ball." said sitting out his freshman year the ground and 91 in the air, Mountaineer head coach Don and enduring a sophomore­completing 5-of-9 passes. Nehlen. "He's a quarterback, year label of a one-dimensional 
Against West Virginia, Rice but he's a ruunning back, too. player, Rice cooked during the outshone an injured Harris, He's a gem. He's a great national championship drive, totalling 213 yards on 7-of-11 leader. He has great chemsitry earning the Notre Dame Most 
and Leahy accomplished before him--winning the na­tional championship--you will never hear him put himself on the same level as those past Irish legends. When asked what it felt like to be named head coach at Notre Dame, Holtz one~ responded: "I'm 5-feet, 10-inches, weigh 152 pounds, was not a good ath­lete, speak with a lisp and ap­pear af{J.icted with a combina­tion of scurvy and beriberi. What do you think it feels like to be named coach of Notre Dame?" Yes, Holtz is humble. That's more noticeable than his physique, lisp or lack of ath­letic ability. He's also established himself as one of the top coaches in the nation--no matter what he says. "He wants to see everything, and he has an ability to see the perfect picture of what the problem is in preparing for a game," says former Irish co­ach Ara Parseghian, who calls Holtz the Friday before every game. "Every week his total concentration is on nothing more than the next opponent." Many of those next opponents have fallen, and not only at the hands of Notre Dame. The 52-year-old Follansbee, 
W. Va., native came to Notre Dame following two seasons at Minnesota (1984-85), seven at Arkansas (1977-83), four at North Carolina State (1972-75) and three at William & Mary Valuable Player award, as voted by his teammates. 
But it wasn't always easy. He began the year with nine con­secutive incompletions against Michigan, and was 5-for-21 in the first two games. 
Mter that, he was consistent in the air, balancing the 
see RICE, page 19 
(1969-71). Fifteen of the 20 col­lege teams under his direction have earned past-season bowl invitations, and nine have finished in the final Associated Press Top 20. 
Holtz also coached the New 
York Jets of the National Foot­
ball League in 1976 before re­
turning to the college ranks. 
Now he has added a national championship, and his work with the 1988 Fighting Irish already has earned him Coach of the Year honors from Foot­ball.News and CBS Sports. 
Of course, Holtz would not name himself as high as Coach of the Week. 
"I didn't come here to be a hero or to prove I could coach; I already knew I couldn't," he quips. 
But Holtz is a hero at Notre Dame. And before accepting the job here, he was a hero at Minnesota. 
The Gophers had a combined record of 4-18 in the two years prior to Holtz's arrival at Min­nesota, including 17 straight losses in the Big Ten. 
Mter Holtz was named coa­ch, the Gophers drew 42,000 fans for their spring game. Holtz tqen took a team that was 1-10 the previous season to a respectable 4-7 season in 1984, including victories over Big Ten rivals Wisconsin and Iowa, both of which appeared in bowl games that year. 
see HOLTZ, page 19 
•
1mage 
.,~~:t­
,,
.• "P" !~"~· ~ 
¥~ ...~ 
The Observer I Michaei Moran 


NOTRE DAME 19, Michigan 17
Thursday, January 19, 1989 
page 3 

NO's smallest walk-on kicks with a golden toe 
By MARTY STRASEN complished by John Carney in 1986 Sports Editor against Southern Methodist. "Reggie always makes those," Irish 
Notre Dame's most dangerous head coach Lou Holtz said. "I told him weapon came in the form of a 5-5, 135-that it was just like practice. and not pound walk-on who said he tried out for to make it bigger than it really was." the football team because he "didn't The Irish got off to a bigger start than want to be a geek." many expected when Ricky Watters 
Irish placekicker Reggie Ho nailed took a low, 53-yard punt from Gillette an Irish record four field goals, includ­81 yards for a touchdown early in the ing a game-winning 26-yarder with a first quarter. Watters raced through a minute and 13 seconds remaining, to huge hole in the middle of the field, lift Notre Dame to a 19-17 victory in an made a cut to the left and sprinted into opening-night thriller at Notre Dame the end zone untouched. Stadium. Key blocks were thrown by freshmen 
Mike Gillette, Michigan's all-time Rodney Culver and Raghib Ismail. leading field goal kicker who booted a "I don't deserve any credit at all," 49-yarder to give the Wolverines a 17-16 Watters said. "I just caught the ball lead with 5:39 left, missed a 48-yard and ran. You could hear the blocks all attempt on the last play of the game. around." The ball fell wide to the right, giving The Irish took a 13-0 lead on Ho's first Notre Dame its second opening-game two field goals of the game. The second victory over Michigan in as many kick was set up when Notre Dame years. freshman Arnold Ale recovered a 
But Ho, who split the uprights from fumble by Michigan's Leroy Hoard on 31, 38 and 26 yards before the winning a punt return late in the first quarter. kick, was unfazed by the pressure of D' Juan Francisco forced the fumble the game's final moments. when he jolted Hoard in full stride. 
"Sure I was a little nervous," the But the Michigan defensive line, Hawaii native said. "But I have the best which allowed the Irish 91 rushing holder in the world in Pete Graham, yards in the first quarter, held Notre the best snapper in the world in Tim Dame scoreless for most of the second Grunhard and 280-pound guys on the quarter and all of the third. line. Nobody was going to hit me, so I Michigan took advantage of some wasn't too nervous." breaks on special teams to get on the 
Ho, a senior pre-med major with a board and eventually take the lead, 
3.8 grade-point average and junior despite solid play from all units on the eligibility, did not try out for the team Notre Dame defense. until the spring of 1987 because he Tony Boles took the kickoff 59 yards wanted to concentrate on academics. after Ho's second field goal before 
"I thought I was going to flunk out of Francisco caught him from behind on school," he said. the Notre Dame 38. Hoard dove over 
Ho tied theN otre Dame record of four the top from the 1-yard line 12 plays 
field goals in a game, a feat last ac-later to make the score 13-7. 
·~ •
THE ·~ 
. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CENTRAL 
NEW JERSEY .. CONGRATULATES 
THE FIGHTING IRISH 1988 NATIONAL 
'· CHAMPIONS 
~ 

A misfielded punt by Watters in the and Ho and the IriSh answered every third quarter led to the second Wol­Wolverine strike with one of their own. verine score. Watters signaled for a fair "Our football team answered the catch deep in Irish territory, but challenge every time," said Holtz, slipped as he approached the ball and whose squad trailed 14-13 and 17-16 it bounced off his leg and was recovered before it was over. "I thought it was by the Wolverines. one great football game. Our defense 
Michigan quarterback Michael played exceptionally well. We were as Taylor scored on a fourth-and-goal play physical as I thought we would be." from one yard out, faking a handoff and jogging in on a nifty bootleg to give Junior inside linebacker Michael Michigan a 14-13 edge. Stonebreaker was all over the field, 
But it turned into a tense game of making two solo tackles and 17 assisted defense and field goals from that point, ones. 

Dear Fighting Irish, 
Thank you so much for your hard work and dedication. A special thanks to our men: 
Frank Jacobs 
(what a catch!) 
D'Juan Francisco 
(please come back next year) 
We Love You! 
-The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Greater Cincinnati 


L_ 

NOTRE DAME 20, Michigan State 3 
Thursday, January 19, 1989

eape 4 
Irish option attack controls Spartans 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
If at first you don't succeed­-try, try, then run the option. 
That's the way Notre Dame ran its record to 2-0 with a con­vincing 20-3 win over Michigan State. 
After managing to secure a 6-3 lead at halftime on two Reggie Ho field goals, the Irish used a punishing second-half running attack and a tenacious defense to hold on to the ball, the lead and their early season momentum. 
With Tony Brooks (11 carries, 66 yards) filling the ful­lback slot and Mark Green (21 carries, 125 yards) taking the pitch outside, Irish quarter­back Tony Rice directed the op­tion to march Notre Dame down the field against the Spar­tans, who led the nation in rush defense last season. 
"I felt Tony (Rice) handled the option real well," said Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz. "We hadn't been able to make the power game go, so we had to go to the option more than we wanted to in the second half. We think we're gonna break some things on people." 
Any concerns that this inex­perienced offensive line couldn't hold its own were washed away by Notre Dame's 245 yards rushing, 195 in the second half. 
"It's been a long time since someone has gained that many yards on us," said Michigan State head coach George Perles. "They got a lead where they could play ball control. It was great execution. 
Michigan State jumped out to a 3-0 lead on a 39-yard field goal by John Langeloh following a Rice interception on the first series of the game. Despite good field position in the opening frame, the Spartans could muster only one other scoring threat which ended when Langeloh hooked a 29­yard field goal attempt left. 
After losing fullbacks An­thony Johnson and Braxston Banks to injuries during the first offensive series of the game, it took awhile for the Irish running game to gel. Twice Notre Dame knocked on the door in the second quarter but could only come away with two Ho field goals, the second set up by Raghib "Rocket" Is­mail's block of a Josh Butland punt on the Spartan 19-yard line. 
Weakened by the suspension of senior offensive tackle Tony Mandarich, the Spartans were forced to run over the right side of the line and would fool no one, especially JUmor linebacker Mike Stonebreaker, who registered 10 tackles (seven unassisted). 
"The coaches had our coverage set up real well,'' said Stonebreaker, who picked off two Bobby McCallister passes and returned one for a touch­down. "We had them scouted 

The Observer 1 Jonn ::iti.Kietlaker 

Raghlb "Rocket" Ismail's block of a Josh Butland a 6-3 halftime lead, and the Irish would never look 
punt In the second quarter sets up Reggie Ho's back. second field goal. Ho's field goal gave the Irish 
and were ready for what they would try to do." 
The Irish controlled the line from the defensive side as well, holding Spartan tailback Blake Ezor, who ran for 196 yards against Rutgers last week, to just 70 yards on 22 carries. 
With Brooks getting more comfortable at the fullback slot with every snap, the Irish opened up in the second half with a 71-yard scoring drive, their first touchdown from scrimmage on the season. From the wishbone, Rice scampered in from eight yards on an option keeper to give Notre Dame a 13-3lead at 10:24 in the third quarter. 
"You just have to take ad­vantage of the openings," said Rice, who carried nine times for 64 yards and had a 34-yard gain called back on a holding call. "Their defense was over­flowing to the outside a lot, so I was able to take advantage of that to run the ball. Our of­fensive line did a great job." 
Forced to resort to an air at­tack and play catch-up, McCal­lister found himself under pres­sure from the Notre Dame pass rush. One rushed, underthrown pass ended up in the hands of Stonebreaker, who legged out the 39-yard return to cap off the scoring and the Irish win. 

•Stay ID Sports8 Powerful Johm, Hopkins squad buries NO lacrosse 22-3 Soccer team bounces back '_.· .·,v.· -~  ·  Touch with the #1 Irish You can keep up-to-date with all the latest happenings on. the Notre Dame sports scene with a subscription to The Ob­server, Notre Dame's daily student newspaper. Stay in touch with Notre Dame spring football, the basketball Irish drive to the "Battle for Seattle," and all the other sportsnews for only $25. We'll keep you posted on the latest items of interest from Coach Holtz and bring you complete coverage of the national signing day for recruits in February and the Blue­Gold game in April. Please clip this subscription form and enclose $25 for the spring semester. Send payment to P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN. 46556 to begin your subscription today.  

NOTRE DAME 52, Purdue 7
Thursday, January 19, 1989 page 5 
Boilers no match for Irish 
52-7 NO slaughter completes sweep of Big Ten foes 

By PETE GEGEN Sports Writer 
It was just Notre Dame's 
day. 

The Irish jumped all over a hobbled Purdue squad 52-7 at Notre Dame Stadium Sept. 24, which completed a season­opening three-game sweep of Big Ten school~ and raised the question of just how good was this Notre Dame football team. 
The Notre Dame totals told the story: 31 rushing attempts for 236 yards, five passes for 119 yards, 15 first downs and three interceptions by the defense. Leading rusher Tony Brooks had 11 carries for 110 yards, and, and Tony Rice com­pleted four of six passes and threw for two touchdowns against the top pass defense in the country coming into the game. 
And that was just the first half. 
"Notre Dame could have picked the score after that start," said Purdue head coach Fred Akers. "Once they got rol­ling and things started going their way, they became awfully good." 
Besides the point deficit, Akers had to cope with the loss of several interior linemen. With everything going right for the Irish and wrong for the Boilermakers, the outcome was not in doubt for long. 
"You have to keep your per­spective," said Holtz. "Purdue 
I 
I 
t t' 
I 
I 
I 
I 

was banged up and we really 
played well." 

On that theme, Holtz tried to 
calm people eager to label his 
team as "excellent." 

"We're a good football team that has improved fundamen­tally over a year ago," he said. "But we still have a long way to go. Where are we right now? We're 3-0, which is exactly where we were a year ago." 
There wasn't much else left 
to decide once the Irish jumped 
out to a 42-0 lead. It happened 
so fast that Holtz didn't get to 
do some of the things he wanted 
to try. 
"It got out of hand so quick," said Holtz. "We really needed to throw the football more today, but we didn't have the opportunity." 
Four Irish quarterbacks did manage to get off 14 passes, eight of them completions and one interception. The focus, however, was on Rice's arm. 
After two incompletions stalled Notre Dame's opening drive, Rice rolled right on a third-and-five play and hit flanker Pat Eilers for a 10-yard gain. The next play was Rice's 38-yard touchdown run, helped by a huge hole on the left side and a downfield block by Eilers. . 
On the next Irish possession Rice found Eilers again on third down to keep the drive going. Rice capped the nine­play, 72-yard drive with an 
eight yard tosss to freshman 
tight end Derek Brown. 
In the second quarter, Rice's 
final toss was a 54-yard bomb 
to Raghib "Rocket" Ismail, 
who beat cornerback Steve 
Jackson for the touchdown to 
make the score 21-o. 
The next scoring drive fea­tured the running attack, with Rice, Brooks, and Ricky Wat­ters combining for 73 yards in six plays, leading to Mark Green's seven-yard plowing up the middle for the score. 
Watters then returned his second punt of the year for a touchdown, accelerating was was already becoming a blowout. 
The Purdue offense contin­ued to sputter under Brian McCarthy, who completed 9-of­19 for 51 yards and two George Streeter interceptions. 
Freshman Brian Fox replaced McCarthy with 3:57 left in the half, and he was greeted by a Pat Terrell inter­ception. 
Meanwhile the Irish already had gone to their third quarter­back. Senior Steve Belles threw the first touchdown pass of his career when he hit Brooks over the middle. The converted ful­lback caught the pass at the Purdue 34, and ran untouched into the end zone. With the score 42-0, the game was just about decided. 


National Chatnpionship Year. 
-.,. . . . . ,. .• ~-........ .. 
~-·----·-··-··-·-­



NOTRE DAME 42, Stanford 14 
Thursday, January 19, 1989 

Rice, Irish dart past the Cardinal 
~''"'' 
The Observer I Trey Reymond 

Tony Rice (9) blasts around left end against the from Woodruff, S.C., finally began to make a name Stanford Cardinal. Rice rushed and passed for for himself as a passer. over 100 yards In the 42-14 win where the junior 
jumped over 16 seconds into the carries for the Irish. Sopho­up quarterback Jason second period. Rice added the more tailback Tony Brooks (12 Palumbis. two-point conversion on a carries, 59 yards) scored from But Notre Dame was againkeeper and the rout was on. five yards out, dragging Stan­overpowering behind its young 
"When they stopped us at the ford defender Mike Newton offensive line, which continued goal line and got the ball back, with him most of the way, to to erase any early-season and then fumbled on the very make the score 21-0 in the doubts abc;mt its ability to next play, that was big," Holtz second quarter. replace all five starters from said. "That got the team up. Rice's passing touchdown last year. I'm not saying it turned the was a three-yard toss to fresh­"We had a great challengegame around, because it didn't. man tight end Derek Brown on coming into this game," junior I thought we controlled the foot­the first drive of the third quar­guard Tim Grunhard said. ball game." ter. Brown and split end Pat "They have two all-American 
The Irish amassed 332 rush­Eilers each caught two passes, candidates in (Ray) Huckes­ing yards to Stanford's 59. Car­while sophomore flanker Ricky tein and (Andy) Papathanas­dinal running back John Volpe Watters led the Irish with four siou, and we took that as our was the only Stanford player receptions for 51 yards. challenge. But we like knock­with positive net rushing yards, Stanford's run-and-shoot of­ing people in the dirt. I guessgaining 67 on 17 carries. fense managed 215 passing they learned that the hard 
Green gained 63 yards on 10 yards, 158 coming from back-way." 
By MARTY STRASEN 
Sports Editor 
Tony Rice threw the football against Stanford as if he was throwing darts. 
And he ran like somebody was throwing darts at him. 
Everyone knew the Irish quarterback could run like he did in Notre Dame's 42-14 tri­umph over the Cardinal at Notre Dame Stadium. Rice gained 107 yards on 14 carries and scored two touchdowns to prove it. 
But the doubters of Rice's passing ability got a glimpse of what the junior can do through the air, as Rice completed 11 of 14 passes for 129 yards and one touchdown without throw­ing an interception. He tied a Notre Dame single-season record (held by many players) by completing 10 consecutive passes, including four in the previous week's 52-7 Irish tri­umph over Purdue and six more to start the Stanford con­test. 
Rice attributed much of his success against the Cardinal to an interest in throwing darts, inspired by Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz. 
"Me and Coach Holtz were talking, and he suggested I get some darts and just throw in my room," Rice said. "It seemed like it just carried on. Every night I just threw darts, and in practice I could see I was improving a bit. 
"I'm going to keep throwinll them. I think the darts really helped out tonight." 
Rice's ability to run the ball did not hurt the Irish passing game, either. When the Stan­ford defense keyed on Notre Dame's ground game, includ­ing the option attack Rice runs brilliantly, the Irish receivers found plenty of room in which to get open. 
With great protection from the Notre Dame offensive line, Rice made it look easy. 
"Their quarterback, Rice, did an excellent job running the option and throwing the ball," Cardinal head coach Jack El­way said. "(Rice's passing) gives jhem another dimension to th¢r offense. He was throw­ing wiijl.real accuracy." 
Rice put the Irish ahead 6-0 on a 3b yard touchdown run earty in the first quarter, but then it looked as though the mo­mentum was swinging Stan­ford's way. A missed 21-yard field goal by Irish kicker Reggie Ho and a goal-line stand by the Stanford defense to end the first quarter kept the Car­dinal in the game longer than it might have been. 
But Stanford quarterback Brian Johnson fumbled the snap on the first play after the goal-line stand, and Notre Dame's Ned Bolcar recovered the ball on the Cardinall-yard line. 
This time the Irish crossed the goal line, as Mark Green 
~. 

THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHOENIX 
CONGRATULATES COACH LOU HOLTZ AND THE FIGHTING IRISH FOOTBALL TEAM ON THEIR NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP 
Our Club was honored and pleased to host the Notre Dame family for the Fiesta Bowl XVIII, and we look forward to having you back in coming years. The Notre Dame Fighting Irish are always welcome in Phoenix. 
~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
NOTRE DAME 30, Pittsburgh 20
Thursday, January 19, 1989 
Panthers tamed; ND escapes 30-20 
By THERESA KELLY Assistant Sports Editor 
PITTSBURGH--For the Pitt Panthers, it was case of three too many Notre Dame runners, two too many punts and one too many men on the field. 
For Notre Dame, it was one less monkey on its back. 
The Irish beat the Panthers 30-20 in the first-half sun and second-half drizzle at Pitt Stadium, taking advantage of three crucial Pitt miscues to break the Panthers' three­game winning streak over the Irish. 
"It's like anything else," said Irish coach Lou Holtz. "If you give someone a chance, and they're good, then they'll take advantage of it." 
From the Pitt perspective, it was a game they should have won. From the Irish point of view, they were happy to get out of Pittsburgh with a win. 
Tony Brooks, Mark Green and Tony Rice combined for 257 yards as Notre Dame's strong running game totalled 310 yards and four touchdowns. 
The turning point came in the fourth quarter. With 11:45 to play, the Panthers' Scott Kaplan hit a 34-yard field goal to cut the Irish lead to 23-20. Pitt held the Irish to minus­three yards on three plays, and Jim Sexton was in to punt the football to the Panthers on fourth down and 13. 
With the snap, 11 Pitt players went for the block and one was back to return. That's 12 players, and that's too many. And because all12 players par­ticipated in the play, it was a 15-yard personal foul penalty, not the usual 12-men on the field 5-yard penalty. 
"It was really a key error on our part," Pitt coach Mike Got­tfried said. "It kept the drive alive for them, and they went and scored. It was a mistake that never should have hap­pened." 
"I couldn't believe it," Pitt punt returner Alonzo Hampton said, "especially since I'm the one who's supposed to count the players. I didn't get it done, and it turned the game around. We always seem to make one little mistake, and the other team al­ways seems to capitalize." 
Other mistakes that Pitt would like to take back in­cluded the opening-drive fumble by Curvin Richards on the Notre Dame two-yard line. Curvin was hit by Todd Lyght, coughed up the ball, and lost the recovery to Chris Zorich. Pitt wasted another scoring chance when quarterback Dar­nell Dickerson, heading in for a touchdown, fumbled the ball across the Irish goal line, missed two chances to recover it, and watched Irish corner­back Stan Smagala cover the ball for a Notre Dame touch­back. 
"It was frustrating, because I can't figure out what hap-
Braxston Banks (39) barrels Into the endzone at Pittsburgh while quarterback Tony Rice celebrates In the background. Banks was return­
pened," Dickerson said. "The rain had just started, but I can't really blame it on that. I guess I just didn't tuck it away. ! couldn't believe it." 
"Make no mistake, I'm proud of our team," said Holtz. "We beat a very good team in Pitt. But we are really banged up and beat up. 
The Notre Dame running game led the way, scoring all four Notre Dame touchdowns, one each by Green, Rice, An­thony Johnson and Braxston Banks. Rice was 8-of-14 in the air for 97 yards and two inter­ceptions. 
Pitt took the early lead on its second drive of the game as Dickerson threw a perfect 42­yard touchdown pass to Reggie Williams. The Irish responded with a two-yard run by Rice to tie the game, and the teams traded touchdowns and field goals to tie at 17 until Banks' one-yard run with 34 seconds remaining in the third quarter put the Irish ahead to stay 23­17. 
The Kaplan field goal and an eight-yard struggle into the end zone by Green to cap the Irish drive that benefitted from the 12 men on the field penalty, making the final score 30-20. 
Wes Pritchett led the Irish defense with 10 total tackles. 


I i I ,( ·I 
:I 
!I 
!! 
il 

Brian 0. Shannon '60 President 
W. Craig Fowler '75 President-elect Mary Lou Mulvihiii-Skalkos '78 1st Vice President-elect John B. Higgins '58 2nd Vice President-elect 
NOTRE DAME 31, Miami 30
Thursday, January 19, 1989 page 9 

As Tony Rice unloads a pass against Miami, senior offensive tackle Andy Heck (66) keeps the Hurricanes' Greg Mark (94) from putting on any 

Linebacker Wes Pritchett (34) tries to shed a from Atlanta, recorded nine tackles against Miami blocker as he eyes a slashing Leonard Conley and led the Irish In that category for the season. 
(28) In the backfield. Pritchett, a fifth-year senior 
The mighty fall: Irish stun Miami 
By MARTY STRASEN Sports Editor 
All the hype came down to 
three hours of football, and 
three hours of football came 
down to one play with 45 
seconds left on the clock. 
And when Steve Walsh's pass 
came down in the end zone, 
down with it fell Miami's 36­
game regular-season winning 
streak, No. 1 ranking and 
recent dominance of Notre 
Dame football. 

The Notre Dame student 
body came down as well, rush­
ing onto the field to celebrate 
the 31-30 victory that gave birth 
to hopes of the next Irish na­
tional championship and 
pushed Lou Holtz' squad to 
No.2 in the nation. . 
"This was a win by the Notre Dame spirit," said Holtz after the Oct. 15 contest that boosted the Irish to 6-0 and ended the frustration of humbling Notre Dame losses to the Hurricanes in 1985 (58-7) and 1987 (24-0). 
"This was a win by the spirit of a group of guys who refused to fold," Holtz continued. "The spirit of Notre Dame was some­thing we talked about all week and I congratulate our players... It was a great game of two great teams who just competed as hard as anything I've ever seen." 
Not many college football games receive the hype this game received. Even less are able to live up to such a billing. 
This one did. 

Notre Dame led the whole way. But Walsh, who com­pleted 31 of 50 passes for 424 yards, a career high for the Reisman Trophy candidate and the most passing yardage ever given up by Notre Dame, rallied the Hurricanes to within a point when he hit diving receiver Andre Brown for an 11-yard touchdown on a fourth­and-seven play with 45 seconds four Hurricane fumbles on the 
afternoon. 
Irish quarterback Tony Rice 
engineered first-half drives of 
75 and 80 yards, respectively, 
to give Notre Dame leads of 7-0 
and 14-7. Rice scored from 
seven yards out with 3:36 left 
in the opening quarter, and hit 
Banks with a nine-yard pass for 
the second-quarter score. 
The Irish then took their big­
gest lead of the game when 
Walsh unloaded a short lob un­
der pressure that fell into Ter­
rell's hands. The junior raced 
60 yards for a touchdown and 
a 21-7 Irish lead. 
But the Hurricanes needed 
slightly more than five minutes 
to erase that margin. 
Walsh avoided an Irish blitz on fourth down with a quick toss to Conley that went for a 23-yard touchdown and made the score 14-7. Miami called two timeouts during the next Irish possession, got the ball back, and finished a 54-yard drive with a 15-yard touchdown pass from Walsh to running back Cleveland Gary with 21 seconds left in the half. 

"I thought if we could get the lead, we could have the bal­lgame won," said Miami coach Jimmy Johnson. "I thought we could take control of the ball­game." 
To that end, Johnson called a fake punt with the score still tied in the third quarter, but the Hurricanes ran the play to the overloaded side of the Irish defense, and Steve Belles stopped Matt Britton for a loss on the Miami 46-yard line. 
Rice hit Ricky Watters on a 44-yard sideline pattern on the next play, and Pat Eilers scored a two-yard touchdown to end the 13-second drive and give the Irish a 28-21 lead. 
Notre Dame's Reggie Ho and Miami's Carlos Huerta ex­changed short field goals to make the score 31-24, and the 'Canes then looked as if they 

left. That made the score 31-30. would tie the game midway 
The Game then became The through the fourth quarter. But Play, as Miami tried for the the most controversial play of two-point conversion which the game might have cost would have put the 'Canes Miami a touchdown. ahead. But Notre Dame's On fourth-and-seven from defense came up with solid the 11-yard line, Walsh hit Gary pass coverage when it needed cutting across the middle for it most, and Walsh's pass for what would have been a sure Leonard Conley in the right first down. But as Gary fell for­corner of the end zone was ward in his attempt to cross the batted away by Irish free goal line, the ball came loose safety Pat Terrell. and Irish linebacker Mike 
Walsh did not see the Irish Stonebreaker recovered it at coming earlier in the game, the 1-yard line. either, tossing three intercep­If the officials would have tions and fumbling twice to ruled that the ground caused Notre Dame's Chris Zorich, the fumble, Miami would have both coming after big hits from either retained possession or Irish defensive end Frank been credited with a touch­Starns. Notre Dame recovered down. 
COIGRA,.ULA,.IONS ,.0
The Notre Dame Club of Houston 
,.BEII88 IA,.IONAL CHAMPIONS 
Congratulates the 1988 
From the Notre Dame Club of
National Champions 
Northwest Indiana 


A Year to Re1
Thursday, January 19, 1989 


'From thesE a phoenix~ 
i
I 

I I I 
I 
ql 
. I \ 
\ 
I 
I 


RIGHT: Lou Holtz gives direction to Rice en route to his first national championship. BELOW: Tri-captain Andy Heck leads the Irish in his first season at offensive tackle. 
**., 
X. 

nember pages 10 -11 

• ashes viii rise.' 
-Ara Parseghian 
following the 1985 Notre 
Dame-Miami game 
LEFT: 
Anthony 
Johnson 
drives 
through 
the line. 
He 
gained 
20 yards 
and scored one touchdown. 
BELOW: 
Mark Green takes the ball from Rice. Green gained 61 yards. 

ording two sacks and three 

NOTRE DAME 41, Air Force 13 
page 12 

Fales think upset until second half 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 

The post-Miami letdown that everyone feared seemed eerily close to reality when Air Force was thinking upset and trailing Notre Dame by just a touch­down at halftime. 
Unfortunately for the Fal­cons, the Irish weren't thinking upset at all. Notre Dame out­scored Air Force 21-0 in the second half to win 41-13 and im­prove its record to 7-0. 
"I thought that in the second· half, we dominated the game," said Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz. "We fought for our lives in the first half. At halftime, this was a real football game." 
Air Force (5-3) cut Notre Dame's halftime lead to 20-13 with a three-yard run by ful­lback Andy Smith with 1: 57 left in the second quarter. 
"We had to go back out there in the second half and make something happen," said Air Force coach Fisher DeBerry. "Ifwe could have stopped them and gotten the football, it would have given our team the confi­dence and momentum it needed." 
Instead, Notre Dame meth­odically drove to the Air Force 42-yard line, where Tony Brooks took a screen pass and raced down the left sideline for a touchdown. Reggie Ho's en­suing extra point gave Notre Dame a 27-13 lead. Brooks led all rushers with 
~ 85 yards on 12 carries. 
r. 

We are proud of you in Indy! 
Congratulations 
Lou Holtz and the 1988 National 
ChampiOnship 
Football Team 



-Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis 
Francis S. "Mike" Connelly '57 President John D. Short '74 President-elect 
The Irish went on to score two more touchdowns in the second half, while Air Force's rushing attack, which was ranked first in the country en­tering the game, could muster just 29 yards on 18 carries in the final 30 minutes. With the Falcons running a wishbone at­tack and rarely throwing the ball, no running game meant no offense. 
"I was impressed by our foot­ball team in the second half," said Holtz. "I've got to be honest with you, I thought they were very impressive." 
Air Force scored first on a Steve Yarborough 22-yard field goal midway through the first quarter. 

Notre Dame grabbed its first lead of the game on the next series. The Irish drove 71 yards on 11 plays, capped by Mark Green's seven-yard run for the score. Notre Dame was able to run at will against a smaller Air Force team, gaining 267 yards on 52 carries. 
"I tried to run them out to the gas station and pump them up big, but the air hose was bro­ken," DeBerry joked about his team's lack of size. "There are not many NFL teams much bigger than Notre Dame." 
After Air Force cut the lead to 7-6 on a 37-yard field goal by Yarborough that barely cleared the uprights, the Irish struck back with two consecu­tive touchdown drives. 
Quarterback Tony Rice ran folH" yards for the first score. 
fne Observer 1 HoD HegoVJch 
NotreDameflankeli'tallbackRickyWatterspushes coming from Tony Rice and one from Steve 
aside Air Force nose guard Pat McNelis. Watters Belles. had two touchdown catches In the game, one 
On the next drive, fullback An­"It really hurt the consis­thony Johnson scored on a spec­tency of our football team," tacular 12-yard run. Air Force said DeBerry. "You can't golinebacker Joe Powell virtually out there with the wishbone and had Johnson on the ground run it first-and-fifteen. It got us before the South Bend native off synch and put us in a very broke out of Powell's grasp and difficult situation." burst in for the touchdown. Notre Dame flanker Ricky 
The Air Force offense was Watters had two touchdown ·able to move the ball through­catches from two two different out the first half, but the Fal­passers in the second half. cons hurt themselves with con­In the closing minutes of the stant illegal motion penalties third period, reserve quarter­on first down situations. back Steve Belles lined up at 
~ ;::::::: ::::: ~~:: ;II 
•• •• of Orange County 
.· .· 

Congratulates Players, Coaches 
~-( 

..·. & Students for an awesome season
I 

and a great National-Championship 
••1 Southern CaliforniaHistory. ~ 
•• ! -Notre Dame Club of Orange County •.. 
lit~.·.·.·.·.·.-.-.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·-·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.-.·,·.·.·.·.-.·.·.·.·.·.·.~)
:·.................................................................................·.·..·...·..·.•....·.·.·.·...·..·.·.·... · ...... . 
tailback, took a pitch from Rice and completed a 43-yard pass to Watters. The sophomore flanker made the reception at the seven-yard line and broke a tackle to score his first re­ceiving touchdown of the year. 
Watters then caught a 28­yard touchdown pass from Rice midway through the fourth quarter to close the scoring at 41-13. Rice com­pleted 7-of-13 passes for 123 yards and two touchdowns. 
......... ~ .. ~··•.•.••"······•••"'•·· 
NOTRE DAME 22, Navy 7
page 13 Thursday, January 19, 1989 
Naval Academy tough to sink 
Notre Dame prevails 22-7 despite sluggish showing 

By PETE SKIKO Assistant Sports Editor 
BALTIMORE--Notre Dame defeated Navy 22-7 in Bal­timore on Oct. 29 to earn col­lege football's number one ranking for the first time this 
season.  
But  what  was  reason  for  
celebration  in  most  Irish  
camps  was  reason  for  con­ 

sternation on the face of Head Coach Lou Holtz after the game. 
"The first thing I want to do is to compliment the Naval Academy," said Holtz. "I think they played above their ability and they really took it to us. At the same time, I am very dis­appointed with the way we played, especially on offense." 
Holtz was not just trying to fire his team up to play hard for the remainder of the season. The Irish truly could not put the feisty Midshipmen away until late in the fourth quarter. 
Not that they didn't have their chances. But nearly every time the Irish threatened to take control, they self­destructed in some area. 
On Navy's second play from scrimmage, quarterback Gary Mcintosh fumbled and the Irish recovered on the Middie 27. Six plays later, Irish QB Tony Rice found Derek Brown crossing in the end zone for a 10-yard touchdown pass and a 7-0 Notre Dame lead. 
Navy ran three plays and punted following Anthony Johnson's kickoff and it ap­peared Notre Dame would try to put the game out of reach early. But after driving 33 yards into Navy territory on the next series, Tony Brooks fumbled a Rice pitch and Navy recovered. 
After Navy's fourth punt (the Middies had a total of 14 first­quarter yards), the Irish, largely behind the running of tailback Mark Green, went 68 yards in seven plays, culminat­ing with Rodney Culver's 22­yard touchdown run. But Reggie Ho missed the extra point wide right, quashing some of the Irish momentum. 
Late in the half, the Irish settled for a 29-yard field goal by Ho and a 16-0 halftime lead after a wide-open Brown dropped a pass at the Navy five. 
"Fortunately, our defense was ready to compete and really played well," said Holtz, "because every time we tried to get something going on of­fense we had a penalty or some­thing. We didn't have any kind of continuity." 
After receiving the second half kickoff, the Irish went 67 yards on seven running plays, capped off by Ryan Mihalko's one-yard burst for a score. But Tony Brooks' attempt for two points off left tackle fell inches short of the goal line, leaving the score 22-0. 
After four fruitless posses­sions, two for each team, Navy received the ball on the Irish 33 after a 10-yard Jim Sexton punt. Quarterback Alton Griz­zard scampered 22 yards around right end on the fifth play of the drive to put the Middies on the board with three minutes left in the third quar­ter. 
The wind was finally taken out of Navy's sails early in the fourth quarter on a controver­sial fourth down spot after the Midshipmen had driven the ball down to the Irish 30. 
Fullback Deric Sims 
stretched for what appeared to 
be a first down, but, after the 
chains were brought out and 
the ball's position was 
scrutinized for over a minute, 
the officials turned the ball 
over to Notre Dame on downs. 
After that, it was merely a matter of the Irish running out . the clock on another win, but it 
was never easy. 
"We like to think that very team has a breaking point ex­cept us," said Rice, who was 9-of-19 for 95 yards and a touch­down through the air. "We never reached Navy's break­ing point." 
Holtz was a little more direct 
in his evaluation. 
"People will say, 'Hey, it's a 
win'," he said. "But let me tell 
you something. We've got a lot 
of serious problems. We're not 
a very good football team right 
now." 

TttE ttOTRE DAME CLUB OF WASttlttCiTOtt D.C SALUTES LOCAL MEMBERS 
Andy Heck Andre )ones 
AttD THE EttTIRE ttATIOttAL CHAMPIOttSHIP FOOTBALL TEAM. 

NOTRE DAME 54, Rice 11 
page 14 

Owls watch Rocket launch TD returns 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's freshman split end Raghib Ismail is called "the Rocket," partly because of his 4.28 speed in the 40-yard dash and partly because his first name is difficult to pronounce. 
In Notre Dame's 54-11 cooking of Rice, Ismail showed off his speed with two touch­down kickoff returns and showed the Owls that no matter how hard it is to say his name (it's pronounced Ra-GIB), it's even tougher to catch him from behind. 
"I have to give credit where credit is due, and none of it goes to me," said Ismail, whose bro­ther Qadry plays for Syracuse. "The whole key to the returns was getting through the first line of blocking, and nobody got a clean shot at me. That is good blocking. I returned kickoffs in high school, but I get all my confidence from the blocking the kick return team gives me." 
The first return, which went 83 yards and was keyed by a Steve Belles block, followed a Rice 70-yard opening drive that ended with a Clint Parsons 23­yard field goal. The 3-0 Rice lead lasted all of 13 seconds. 
"He (Ismail) hit it good," said Rice coach Jerry Berndt, who would see his team finish Lhe season with an 0-11 record. "We made two crucial mis­takes. We had a couple of guys out of lanes. But as soon as he hit it, I knew he had a touch­down." 

Ismail surprisingly got the chance to return another kick­off with the Irish leading 38-9 early in the fourth quarter. "The Rocket" showed his grat­itude by picking an attempted squib kick up from the ground, cutting to the left side of the field and racing 83 yards to burn Rice for another touch­down. 
Ismail's two touchdown kick­off returns tied school records for touchdown returns in a game and in a season. 
Notre Dame's offense also successfully rebounded from a lackluster showing at Navy as the Irish scored on four of their five first-half posessions. 
"Rice is a tough team coming off the ball, but we had some­thing to prove," said junior of­fensive guard Tim Grunhard. "Our number-one goal was to get back to basics and get that attitude we had at the begin­
ning of the season." The two teams exchanged fourth quarter, Ismail took off 
The Irish added two more field goals in the final two with his second touchdown. touchdowns in the second quar­minutes of the half (Parsons Hackett kicked a 28-yarder to ter, the first coming on a three­hitting from 41, and Hackett raise the lead to 48-9, and Joe yard run by Anthony Johnson from 42), and the Irish held a Jarosz seemingly ended the and the second on a one-yard 31-6 halftime lead. highlights with a six-yard jaunt by Tony Brooks. Kicker The Notre Dame offense touchdown run. Billy Hackett, who replaced wasn't quite finished at But Rice's Nigel Codrington Reggie Ho this weekend, had halftime. A 19-yard run by Rod-blocked Hackett's extra point the first extra point blocked. A ney Culver with 9:15 to play in attempt, and Billy Stone gal­two-point conversion by the third made it 38-6. loped 85 yards to the Irish Johnson followed the Brooks Mter a Parsons 45-yard field endzone. The run gave Rice two score. goal in the first play of the points and closed the scoring 

Thursday, January 19, 1989 
hers (45). The Irish got to Roper four times for 41 yards of losses In the game, while also forcing two Interceptions and two fumbles. 
at 54-11. It was the first time the new NCAA conversion rule had come into effect in Division I play since its enactment before the season. 
On the defensive end, Notre Dame's Frank Starns, George Williams, Chris Zorich and Wes Pritchett each had turns sack­ing Rice quarterback Quentis Roper (21-of-35 for 197 yards). Michael Stonebreaker led the Irish with 13 total tackles. 


~----------------------~~~~~~~~~~~ 
THE WESTERN WASHINGTON CLUB 
• OF NOTRE DAME 
• 

CONGRATULATES OUR FIGHTING IRISH ONA 

•••••• CHAMPIONS 1 TERRIFIC JOB! 
i!~!ll~:;::;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::~f;;_ij~ 
NOTRE DAME 21, Penn State 3
Thursday, January 19, 1989 
pa e 15 

Irish get revenge over Nittany Lions 
By MARTY STRASEN Sports Editor 
Revenge might be sweet, but 
nobody said it had to be fair. 
Against Penn State it wasn't, as Notre Dame took out the frustration of three straight losses to strong Penn State teams on a rare weak one. The Irish totaled 502 yards and powered to a 21-3 victory in their last home game of the year. 
The win was the first over Penn State· for Notre Dame's seniors and sent Nittany Lions coach Joe Paterno home with his first losing season (5-6) in 23 years at the helm. 
"I just feel great for the seniors and the things we've done," said Irish senior tail­back Mark Green, who scored on a 22-yard run in the second quarter. "It's great to go out with a bang and finally beat Penn State. We've never beaten them before " 
The Irish not only beat the Nittany Lions--they nearly blanked them. Penn State scored its only points on Eric Etze's 52-yard field goal on the last play of the first half. The attempt was made possible only after Notre Dame was hit with a 15-yard facemask penalty on the previous seven­yard run by Penn State's Leroy Thompson. 
In fact, Penn State moved the ball more on Notre Dame 
penalties (eight for 94 yards) 
than on pass completions (5-of­
24 for 74 yards). The Irish 
defense broke up 10 Lion pass­
ing attempts and Jeff Aim and 
Steve Roddy each snared an in­
terception. 
Penn State did not complete 
a single pass in the second or 
third quarters. 
"We just didn't have enough offensively," said Paterno, whose team managed 105 yards on 31 rushing attempts and held the ball for only 21 minutes. "Notre Dame played hard, they played alert, and played very aggressive defensively." 
The Irish offense · set the tempo for its control of the line of scrimmage in its first series of the game. Notre Dame marched 87 yards on 12 plays and took a 7-0 lead when Rice rolled out to the left, pump­faked to a wide-oj>en Rod West in the end zone to get a Penn State defender off his feet and scored from two yards out. 
The Irish took a 14-0 lead in the second quarter when Green broke through a hole at the line of scrimmage, headed for the right sideline and somehow managed to stay inbounds on his 22-yard score. Freshman split end Raghib Ismail threw a clinching downfield block on the play. 
"I looked up and saw three of their guys go down," Green said. "I saw three of our block­ers on three of their blockers, and it was kind of like the 


Irish tailback Tony Brooks (40), following for­with a stress fracture In his left foot, and the midable offensive tackle Dean Brown, turns up­283-pound Brown helped a young offensive line field against Penn State. Brooks played all season exceed preseason expectations. 
domino effect." "The whole defense played 
Rice led all rushers with 84 awfully well," Notre Dame yards on 15 carries in the game, head coach Lou Holtz said. "It but he wasn't always pump­seems every week a different faking and keeping it himself. player might stand out." The junior quarterback was 10-Aim was the star this time. of-18 for 191 yards passing, in­The senior tackle became cluding two interceptions and Notre Dame's interception a 67-yard touchdown bomb to leader when he snared his third Ismail that gave Notre Dame pass of the season in the first a 21-3 lead in the third quarter. quarter. Freshman defensive 
From there, the Irish defense end Arnold Ale batted a Lance took charge. When Notre Lonergan pass out of the air Dame's offense was having and into Aim's hands on the trouble moving the ball, the play. defense made sure the Lions The 6-7 senior also recorded did not take advantage of the two • tackles for losses and 
opportunities. knocked down a at the line 

later in the game. 
"This is the first time I've ever heard of a team's leading interceptor being a defensive lineman," said Irish inside linebacker Wes Pritchett, who led the team with nine tackles. "That really says something. He's got good hands, and he's so tall that he can get them way up there." 
Notre Dame has not lost a home game over the last two seasons, while Penn State suf­fered its first losing season in 




CONGRATULATIONS 
CONGRATOLATIONS TO LOO HOLTZ
,.0 ,.BE 
AND THE ENTIRE NOTRE DAME 
1988 
·TEAM
NA,.IONAL CHAMPIONS 
WE'RE GLAD TO BE BACK ON TOP WHERE WE BELONG! 
from the 
-The Notre Dame Club
Notre Dame Club 
of Buffalo and Western 
of St. Louis 
New York 
• 


l 
. I 'i 
I 
NOTRE DAME 27, Southern Cal 1 0 
page 16 Thursday, January 19, 1989
I 
I •
I I 
I Irish blitz Southern Cal 1n regular-season finale 
i 
By MARTY STRASEN Sports Editor 

.I LOS ANGELES--The team that was "a year away" put it­
I l self 60 minutes away from the 1 1988 national championshipI against USC.
I 
Notre Dame cashed in on 
. I 
numerous Southern Cal mis­l takes and toppled the TrojansI 27-10 in the Los Angeles 
Colis~um to finish the regular
l 
season. The way the Irish defense
l 
pressured Southern Cal quar­terback Rodney Peete had to! make the Heisman Trophy can­\ didate long for the days of measles and laryngitis, which \l slowed but did not stop Peete over the two weeks prior to the 
I\ Notre Dame game. 
\\ 
Notre Dame did far morell damage in winning its sixth in 
II 
a row over the arch-rivalII Trojans, although Irish coach
\l Lou Holtz sent tailback Tony
II 
Brooks and flanker Ricky Wat­ters back to South Bend the morning of the game for 
l! 
i repeated tardiness at team I functions. "Aggressiveness, toughness­-there's no secret to this game," 
said Irish defensive end Frank
I 
I Starns, who was in on all three I Irish sacks of Peete, including two solos. "We blitzed a little 1 bit more than usual because we felt we had to put more pres­l1 sure on him (Peete), and we 
I. forced some turnovers. But there was no secret to it."
I' 
l 
\I There also was no secret to the fall of the Trojans from their dreams of a national title. 
' I
. 
' 

Irish cornerback Stan Smagala (29) heads the of the constant pressure Peete felt all day from other way with an errant Rodney Peete pass. the Notre Dame front seven. 
Smagala's return for a touchdown was a result 
Peete (23-of-44, 225 yards) threw two interceptions and USC fumbled four times, losing two of them. 
"We didn't handle the blitz today," USC coach Larry Smith said. "We handled it all year, but today it was like we were playing in a fog." 
Even when the Trojans con­trolled the ball in the second and third quarters--outgaining the Irish 254-7 in total offense during one stretch--they could not fight through the Irish defense to stay close on the scoreboard. 
USC moved the ball to the Notre Dame 33-yard line on its opening drive, but Peete threw deep on third down and over­threw Gary Wellman. A fourth­down punt pinned the Irish to their own 2-yard line for Notre Dame's opening drive, but quarterback Tony Rice got the Irish out of trouble with a play­action bomb to Raghib Ismail that picked up 55 yards on the first play. 
But Notre Dame did not put any points on the board until its next drive, when Rice ran the option to the left side and found only free safety Mark Carrier there to defend both he and Mark Green, the "pitch man" on the play. Carrier kept his eye on Green while Rice cut downfield and dashed 65 yards to put the Irish ahead 7-0. 
"I said, 'I'm not going to let this one guy take me down,' " said Rice, who gained 86 yards on 13 carries. "I just beat him to the sideline." 
Notre Dame defensive tackle George Williams hit Aaron Emanuel to force the first Trojan fumble minutes later, grabbing Emanuel as he was switching the ball from one hand to another and setting up Starns' recovery at the South­
ern Cal 19-yard line. 

Green then scored off left tackle from two yards out to give the Irish a 14-0 edge late in the first quarter. 
But from there, USC con­trolled everything but the scoreboard and the turnover ratio. Before the Trojans fi­nally scored on Scott Lock­wood's 1-yard run with 2:24left in the half, Peete was picked off by Irish strong safety George Streeter and USC tail­back Ricky Ervins fumbled deep in Notre Dame territory to Williams. 
Things got worse for the Trojans after their only touch­down. They again stopped the struggling Irish offense and took possession at their own 40. 
But just when it looked like USC might cut the Notre Dame lead to 14-10 or even tie the game, flanker John Jackson slipped on a pass route and Peete hit Irish cornerback Stan Smagala right in the numbers. Smagala chugged 64 yards down the right sideline for the touchdown. 
Starns leveled Peet~ on Smagala's return and the·quar­terback had to be helped off the field. He suffered a sprained left shoulder on the play. 
"We were so close," Peete said. "To have someone come into your stadium when you're so close and take it away from you, it hurts. The seniors on this team never beat Notre Dame and we have to live with that for the rest of our lives." 
~ I 
\, 
'I 
I 
CONGRA,.ULA,.IONS ,.0 
~ 
,.HEI988 FIGH,.ING IRISH NA,.IONAL CHAMPIONS 
From the Notre Dame Club of.Northern New Jersey 
"Your host for the 1989 Kickoff Classic" 


!: 
President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Secretary 
Treasurer 
Joseph Macdonell Kevin Kenny Michael Goodwin Robert Mangino Karen Frye Tim Floren 
' 
~ '· 

Club Hotline 201-898-0021 
.. 
' 
;_ ·k 
'< 
,\~ 
~ 
?~; ~­
·.­
fl.~ 
1 
..,.. 
' ~ ~. ; 
"t"­
¥ ;_~ ~ 
·~ 
~ 
:-~·.. 
:3· 
;;' 
~ 
~ 
;~· 
§;
'!ii.,.
:,r. 
-~­
:i,_.. 
~·
. 
~ 
l.• 
~ ,.. 
~ 
'I,' 
;,..;' 
?
t: 
.<\
• "' 


NOTRE DAME 34, West Virginia 21
Thursday, January 19, 1989 
page 17 

Fiesta Bowl victory 
seals national title  
By MARTY STRASEN  Irish quarterback Tony Rice  
Sports Editor  stole  the  show  from  Harris,  
TEMPE, Ariz.--For Notre Dame, the "Battle for No. 1" was the perfect ending to a per­fect season. The Irish reigned in 1988, and on the second day of 1989 they claimed their crown with a 34­ completing 7 of 11 passes for 213 yards and two touchdowns to earn the game's offensive Most Valuable Player award. Harris completed 13 of 26 passes for 166 yards, including one interception and one touch­down.  
21 pounding of West Virginia. "I've underestimated this team in a lot of areas," said Irish head coach Lou Holtz, who guided his team to the first  Rice's only obvious mistake seemed to give West Virginia a lift late in the third quarter, but the Irish defense quickly turned the tide back in Notre  
12-0 season in Notre Dame's  Dame's favor.  
storied history. "They've done everything I've asked of them.  Two plays after the Moun­taineers cut the Irish lead to  
Is this a great football team? I'd have to say yes, because nobody proved it wasn't." Certainly not the Moun­taineers, whose hopes of a na­tional championship vanished early in the one-sided affair. A record crowd of 74,911 saw a stingy Irish defense shut down yet another high-powered offense led by a big-name quar­terback. Major Harris and the Mountaineers were no match for Notre Dame, which out­gained West Virginia 455-282 yards on the day and did not allow a first down until nearly  26-13 on a 17-yard touchdown pass from Harris to Grantis Bell, Willie Edwards picked off Rice's underthrown pass in­tended for Tony Brooks at the Notre Dame 26-yard line. But instead of letting the Mountaineers pull closer, the Irish defense pushed West Vir­ginia 14 yards further from ~he end zone. Notre Dame defen­sive end Flash Gordon stopped Harris for a two-yard loss, cor­nerback Stan Smagala broke up a pass for Bell in the end zone and defensive Most V alu­able Player Frank Starns  The Observer I Mike Moran A trio of Notre Dame defenders, Including Harris. The Irish defense badgered the prolific linebackers Frank Stams (30) and Wes Pritchett Harris all day, allowing him almost no time to (34), closes In on West VIrginia quarterback Major throw. game open," Holtz added. From the time the pre-game tainment and sprinted 31 yards "What I mean is--you give festivities concluded until on a third-down play in Notre them a chance, and then you hundreds of Notre Dame fans Dame's opening drive, which shut them down. That really swarmed the field in the final ended in a 45-yard field goal by demoralizes a team." seconds, the Irish were in com-Billy Hackett. Notre Dame then marched 80 plete control. Rice then showed everyone yards in seven plays on the next The Mountaineers ran three he can throw the ball as well, series, which featured a 15­plays and punted on each of firing a 23-yard completion to yard quarterback draw by Rice their first four possessions of freshman tight end Derek on a third-and-six play and a the game, and Harris bruised Brown on the next series. which  
six  minutes  into  the  second  ended any further hopes of a  57-yard completion  to  sopho­ his  left  shoulder  when  Irish  culminated in junior fullback  
quarter.  Mountaineer score by dropping  more  flanker  Ricky  Watters  linebacker  Michael  Anthony  Johnson's  one-yard  
Harris for a 12-yard sack on a  down the left sideline.  Stonebreaker  brought  him  touchdown plunge on a fourth- 
The 282-yard total was West  third-down blitz.  Rice  hit  tight  end  Frank  down  on  the third play from  and-goal play.  
Virginia's lowest of the season.  "The house was on fire and  Jacobs from three yards out on  scrimmage.  Rice again found Brown in  
"They're a doggone physical  we  had to  put the fire out,"  a play-action jump pass for the  While  the  Mountaineers  the second quarter, this time  
football team," said West Vir- Starns said. "That turned the  touchdown. Rice kept the ball  stumbled  out  of the starting  on a 47-yard hookup that set up  
ginia coach Don Nehlen. "They  momentum around for us."  on  the option for  a  two-point  blocks,  Rice  and  the  Irish  freshman  Rodney  Culver's  
were  better than  us  on  both  "Sometimes what looks like  conversion  that  gave  Notre  swept ahead 16-0.  four-yard touchdown run for a  

sijridei.s-o~fiithiie!lbiiaiil~l•"m••••llliailibaidi!isiitiiuiaiitiioniiciiallnlibi~!ieiaikmtiihiieaDiiaimiie~a-31~-i1i3llea~~~·-----.;;;T;h;e;6;-f;o;ot;-;1;ju;n;io;r;b;r;o;k;e;c;o;n;-;;1;6-0;;N;o;t;r;e;D;a;m;-e_a_d_v_a_nt_a_g_e~¥/
~· 


I THE 
, NOTRE DAME CLUB I OF SAN JOSE 
·~· 
CCCCDNCGI~'{JMIJ'li&&"lrlm§ 
1riBilE IFIICGIBr1rliNCG 
IDlrui§IEI Jl®OO 
NAVJrii(Q)NAJL 
CCIEIAIMTIFJI(Q)N§ 
AND WELCOMES ALL FRIENDS AND ALUMNI TO THE STANFORD HOME GAME OCT. 7, 1989. 
For more information on activities please write to P.O. Box 26684 San Jose, CA 95128 
Congratulations to Coach Holtz and the men of the 
1988 
National Championship Fighting Irish Football Team. 
from the Notre Dame Club of Pittsburgh. 
' 

---~· --. ~-___,__......,._.......----~---------------­
... A Year to Remember 
Thursday, January 19, 1989
page 18 


i . 
' ll}
'' p
II
'.'\
.I 
l,, 
Sl covers (and vice 
By PETE GEGEN 
Sports Writer 

Readers of Sports Illustrated may have gotten a feeling of deja vu as they picked up their weekly issues during the 1988 college football season. 
Not once or twice, but three times they found Notre Dame's Tony Rice on the front cover of the weekly magazine. No one yet knows if three individual appearances in a single season is a record, but it quickly placed Rice among an impres­sive group of sports celebrities who have had multiple SI cover appearances. 
Whether the sight of the mul­tiple Irish SI's caused great elation or repulsion among its readers, even the most loyal Notre Dame supporters had to wonder how Rice always ended on top. 
"Was it planned? No," said Larry Keith, SI' s Editorial Projects Director. "It was more a coincidence based on Notre Dame's success and Tony Rice's prominence." 
The man who made the deci­sions on each cover was Mark Mulvoy, SI's managing editor. Mulvoy bases his cover foto decisions on the stories running in the particular week's issue and the quality of photos avail­able. 
"Mark couldn't have set out 
from the beginnng to do three 
Tony Rice covers," said Keith. 
QB Rice versa) 
"It's just one of those little quH-ks of fate." 
Rice first appeared on the cover of the Oct. 24, 1988 issue, after Notre Dame's 31-30 upset victory over then top-ranked Miami. The photo has Rice looking to pass with the Hur­ricanes' Russell Maryland pro­viding the defensive pressure. 
The No. 1 vs. No. 2 battle be­tween the Irish and Southern Cal meritted Rice's second cover appearance in the Dec. 5 iss~. In that photo Rice runs through a hole in the line with Trojan nose guard Don Gibson pursuing. 
It took quite an effort to get Rice's third cover appearance, and for that matter the entire Fiesta Bowl coverage, in the Jan. 9 issue. SI pushed back its regular Sunday deadline to in­clude the Monday national championship game. 
After the game Mulvoy and art director Steve Hoffman flew with the film to a process­ing lab in Los Angeles. There the photos were selected and the cover designed that night and, with no time to fly the ma­terial to New York, the cover and layout were then transmit­ted via satellite. In New York the story text was merged with the layout, and the magazine published on time. 
That photo featured Rice on the option with offensive guard Tim Grunhard blocking an un­known West Virginia defender. 

Cover Boy 
Tony Rice appeared on these three Sports Illustrated covers over the course of Notre Dame's national cham­pionship season. Rice earned the na­tional recognition for his winning perfor­mances against more heralded quarterbacks Steve Walsh (Miami), Rodney Peete (USC) and Major Harris (West Virginia). 

Thursday, January 19, 1989 A Year to Remember page 19 
Irish team effort results in big in,dividual rewards 
By PETE GEGEN wanted to say something smart returned for a touchdown larly went through his left side know I have a chance in the Sports Writer back, but he really stumped me against Michigan State. for touchdown runs. NFL, but I don't know if being 
there." Starns led the team with nine "It was a very big surprise," All American helped it or not." 
Being named to the Associ­What Starns and Notre Dame quarterback sacks and finished said Heck. "I owe a lot to Meanwhile Stonebreaker is ated Press All America team two other All Americans, fifth on the team with 54 (Assistant Coach Joe) Moore looking forward more to was enough to leave Frank linebacker Mike Stonebreaker tackles. The MVP for both the and to the success of the team.'' working with a new set of start­Starns speechless. and offensive tackle Andy Miami and West Virginia Heck and Starns both are ing linebackers than to repeat­
Actually, it wasn't the honor Heck, did have to say about the games credits the Irish work looking forward to the NFL ing as an All American next 
which left Notre Dame's defen­honor echoed what the voting ethic. draft this spring. National season. sive end without words. Starns for All America team reflected "If you work every day and Scouting of Tulsa, Okla., the "Next year we should be fun­was left speechless while ful­Notre Dame's success as a practice hard, lucky things like service used by most pro damentally even better and filling one of the obligations team on the field. that might happen," said teams, predicts Heck will be physically stronger," said which comes with being named "It's something that hap­Starns. "I wasn't playing for taken in the first four rounds, Stonebreaker. "Some guysAll America --an appearance pened as a reflection of how anything like that, but I'm while Starns is pegged for the were starting just their first on Bob Hope's Christmas spe­well the defense was playing," really happy I got it." third to sixth rounds. Both have games this year. cial. said Stonebreaker. Heck's path to the top is even received invitations to the NFL "We'll miss Frank and Wes 
"He made some joke about The junior linebacker more amazing if you consider Scouting Combine Feb. 1-5 at (Pritchett), but Scott me being so big that they pay finished second on the team it was just his first season at Indianapolis. Kowalkowski has been playing real estate prices for that s~e with 105 tackles, two quarter­tackle after moving from tight "I really don't know what's great and Ned Bolcar may in Florida," said Starns. "It back sacks and two intercep­end. It wasn't long into the going on," said Heck about his return, if that's the way it really wasn't that funny. I tions, including one which he season before the Irish regu-contact with NFL teams. "I goes." 
from the film tower; he gets don't go about establishing dis­right in on most plays and is cipline. You set rules and en­
Holtz Rice 
known for giving his quarter­force them." continued from page 2
continued from page 2 
backs a hard time in practice For three years at Notre strength of the Irish groundbowl after three seasons, and to prepare them for the pres­Dame, Holtz's main rule has game with accuFate and often he did it in two," said Parseg­sure of game day. been winning. flash)J passing, finishing with hian after the Irish earned the Once this season, he ran onto And this season it was en­77-of-~9, good for 1389 yards. Cotton Bowl bid with their 8-3 the practice field and tackled forced to perfection. He alsl> led the Irish in rushing, season in 1987. "He proved me Tony Rice, yelling, "Who were "When I went through the with 'il75 yards. wrong, but none of his ac­you reading? Who were you tunnel for the first time two "I know people say I'm a run­complishments surprise me." reading?" years ago against Michigan, it ning quarterback who can't 
It did not take long for the "There's no question who's in w~s hard to perceive being a throw very well," Rice said Notre Dame players to realize charge,'' Rice says. "Here's part of Notre Dame," Holtz before the season. why Parseghian was such a this little old man who has con­recalls. "Now the longer I'm at "We didn't have to prove staunch supporter of Holtz for trol over me. His voice really the University, the more I feel anything to anybody,'' Rice the head coaching job. carries." it. I think I can die a happy said after the Fiesta Bowl. 
"He (Holtz) never says, "Everybody says I'm a dis­man knowing I've been here. The good news for the Irish 'Well, you can be beaten if you ciplinarian,'' says Holtz, who It's a great experience. I can't is that he is only a junior. don't do this and this,' " says sent Tony Brooks and Ricky tell you why this place is spe­"If he's not one of the guys tailback Mark Green. "He al­Watters back to South Bend the cial, it just is." under consideration for the ways says, 'We can beat them morning of the Southern Cal If Notre Dame could talk, it Heisman trophy next year, if we do this and this.' " game for repeated tardiness at might give its head football co­there's something wrong," 
Holtz does not watch practice team functions. "I'm not. You ach a similar rating. said Irish coach Pete Cordelli. 





_,..........-.._._._._................... .-,..., ..,.,.~-....·.··~··-.o·......-"""'--·· ........_...,...._ ........--~-' -· ...,...,,._ .., --~~·· ,.,_......._.....~·-~.·.~ ... 
••~ -..-:.:~-:::....•'M~-
-:~(i~·~:~::::."':·:. .:::::::::·:~~ 
.. ,_..;,,,.,..,..,,....,...... 
The 1988 Fighting Irish 
'" ...... ~~"'~' .,.,.~......-?· ..~ .......... '--~.......... ~ 
~""'' 
. 

national championship football team 

~-· """'~,.. 
1988 Notre Dame  Final  Football  Sta'tistics  
TEAM STATISTICS TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS Total Plays Yards per Play Yards per Game PENAL TIES-YARDS FUMBLES·LOST TOTAL FIRST DOWNS By Rushing By Passing By Penalty THIRD DOWNS-CONV Percentage POSSESSION TIME Minutes per Game RECEIVING NO YDS Ricky Watters 16 343 Mark Green 15 190 Derek Brown 14 220 Raghib Ismail 13 360 Anthony Johnson 8 147 Tony Brooks 7 121 Pat Eilers 6 70 Braxston Banks 5 56 Steve Alaniz 4 74 Ryan Mihalko 2 8 Frank Jacobs 2 17 Aaron Robb 1 11 Rod Culver 1 10 Joe Jarosz 1 10 Rod Smith 1 4 Kent Graham 1 2  NO OPP 4723 3365 833 790 5.67 4.26 256.7 112.0 76-723 70-576 20·13 23-16 240 200 162 76 66 103 12 21 161-79 173·55 49.1 31.8 384:43 335:17 32:04 27:56 AVG TO LG 21.4 2 57 12.7 0 38 15.7 3 47 27.7 3 67 18.4 0 28 17.3 2 42 11.7 0 15 11.2 1 30 18.5 0 26 4.0 0 6 8.5 1 14 11.0 0 11 10.0 0 10 10.0 0 10 4.0 0 4 2.0 0 2  NOTRE DAME 971643 16.9 12 OPPONENTS 1802021 11.2 9 RUSHING NO YDS AVG TO Tony Rice 134 n5 5.8 9 Mark Green 148 707 4.8 7 Tony Brooks 128 702 5.5 2 Anthony Johnson 74 302 4.1 6 Rod Culver 34 215 6.3 4 Braxston Banks 36 141 3.9 1 Steve Belles 20 80 4.0 0 Ricky Watters 33 76 2.3 0 Rusty Setzer 11 24 2.2 0 Pat Eilers 6 22 3.7 1 Kent Graham 8 18 2.2 0 Ryan Mihalko 6. 14 2.3 1 Pete Graham 5 9 1.e 0 Bob Satterfield 2 9 4.5 0 Joe Jarosz 3 4 1.3 1 Mike Gatti 1 4 4.0 0 Corny Southall 1 3 3.0 0 Rick Ebert 1 -4 -4.0 0 Team 1 ·21 -21.0 0 NOTRE DAME 6523080 4.7 32 OPPONENTS 4401344 3.1 7 PASSING NO CO PCT INT YDS Tony Rice 149 n .517 8 1389 Kent Graham 26 17 .654 2 154 Steve Belles 4 2 .500 0 84 Pete Graham 2 1 .500 0 16 NO 181 97 .536 101643 OPP 350 180 .514 19 2021  67 42 LG 65 40 52 22 36 28 18 14 12 7 5 4 9 6 6 4 3 -4 -21 65 31 TO 10 0 2 0 12 9  PUNT RET Ricky Watters Raghib Ismail Pat Eilers NOTRE DAME OPPONENTS KICKOFF RET Raghib Ismail Braxston Banks D'Juan Francsco Donn Grimm Ricky Watters Anthony Johnson Mark Green Rod Smith Steve Belles NOTRE DAME OPPONENTS INT RET George Streeter Jeff Aim Pat Terrell Mike Stonebrkr D'Juan Francsco Stan Smagala Greg Davis Arnold Ale Darrell Gordon Ned Bolcar Steve Roddy NOTRE DAME OPPONENTS  NO YDS AVG 22 291 13.2 5 72 14.4 3 20 6.7 30 383 12.8 22 170 7.7 NO YDS AVG 14 469 33.5 4 65 16.2 3 58 19.3 3 34 11.3 2 42 21.0 2 27 13.5 1 25 25.0 1 14 14.0 1 4 4.0 31 738 23.8 701234 17.6 NO YDS AVG 3 39 13.0 3 8 2.7 3 84 28.0 2 71 35.5 2 17 8.5 1 64 64.0 1 31 31.0 1 17 17.0 1 7 7.0 1 6 6.0 1 0 0.0 19 344 18.1 10 69 6.9  TOLG SCORING TDPA 2P s FG TP Chris Zorich 2 81 Reggie Ho 034 0 0 10-13 64 Ned Bolcar 038 Tony Rice 9 0 1 0 0 56 Frank Slams 0 15 Mark Green 7 0 0 0 0 42 George2 81 Anthony Johnson 6 0 1 0 0 38 Streeter 040 Raghib Ismail 5 0 0 0 0 30 Jeff Aim TO LG Ricky Watters 4 0 0 0 0 24 George Wil-Tony Brooks 4 0 0 0 0 242 87 Iiams Rod Culver 4 0 0 0 0 240 22 Stan Smagala Derek Brown 3 0 0 0 0 180 28 Todd Lyght Bill Hackett 0 5 0 0 4-5 170 15 Pat Terrell Braxston Banks 2 0 0 0 0 120 24 D'Juan Pat Eilers 1 0 0 0 0 60 16 Francsco Joe Jarosz 1 0 0 0 0 60 25 Darrell Gordon 0 14 Ryan Mihalko 1 0 0 0 0 6 Arnold Ale 4 Pat Terrell 1 0 0 0 0 60 Andre Jones Mike Stonebrkr 1 0 0 0 0 62 87 Donn Grimm 0 59 Stan Smagala 1 0 0 0 0 6 Corny Southall Frank Jacobs 1 0 0 0 0 6 Bryan Flannery TOLG NO 51 39 2 0 14-18391 Scott 0 23 OPP 16 14 1 1 14-16156 Kowalkwski0 5 Troy Ridgely 160 PUNTING NO YDS AVG Bob Dahl1 39 LG J1m Sexton 38 1469 38.7 Greg Davis0 9 53 Pete Hartweger 4 159 39.8 Mirko Jurkovic1 64 49 Sean Conner 2 63 31.5 Michael Smalls0 31 34 David Jandric0 17 NOTRE DAME 44 1691 38.4 53 Steve Roddy0 7 OPPONENTS 70 2757 39.4 68 Steve Belles O 6 DEFENSE TM TL-YDS PBU FR BK Raghib Ismail ~ ~ Wes Pritchett 117 4·4 2 2 0 Mike Slonebrkr 105 3-4 5 1 0 NOTRE DAME0 22  74 4-8 59 5-12 54 2-5 54 2-7 51 8-25 45 3-17 44 2-4 42 3-8 40 o-o 35 1-1 30 1-2 , 24 o-o 19 2-3 16 o-o 15 o-o 13 1-3 10 o-o 9 o-o 8 o-o 6 o-o 6 o-o 5 o-o 3 o-o 3 o-o 3 o-o 0 o-o 890 41-103  3 3 0 1 0 0 8 2 0 8 0 0 3 0 2 0 6 1 0 10 0 0 2 2 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 60 15 0  ' -- 


a 

A Year to Remember 
page 20 Thursday, January 19, 1989 


Team speed allows Irish to streak to top of polls 
Irish graduate just 5 starters By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
Early in the season, Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz was dis­cussing the future of the Irish football program and stated, "We can't be a dynasty." 
Less than a month after add­ing an eighth national title to Notre Dame's storied football history, Holtz is hearing several people speak out against his theory. 
Oddsmaker Danny Sheridan, who predicted Notre Dame would falter throughout its championship season, said after the Fiesta Bowl that the Irish, Miami and Florida State would be in a class by them­selves in the 1989 season. 
Beano Cook, while saying the Irish would falter at least once in games at Michigan, Penn State and Miami next season, already tabs Notre Dame as the 1990 national champion. 
A look at Notre Dame's roster shows why Notre Dame's future looks so promis­ing. The Irish return nine starters on offense and eight on defense next season. Tackle Andy Heck and tailback Mark Green are the only players leaving on offense, while the defense loses defensive end Frank Starns, linebacker Wes Pritchett and strong safety George Streeter. 
Linebacker Ned Bolcar, flanker Pat Eilers, cornerback D'Juan Francisco, offensive tackle Mike Brennan and offen­sive guard Tom Gorman are five more seniors who saw quality playing time, and each of them is expected to ask for one more year of eligibility. 
The Irish actually had almost as many freshmen starting this year as they did seniors. Tight end Derek Brown, split end Raghib "Rocket" Ismail and defensive end Arnold Ale all were first-year players who 
Raghlb "Rocket" Ismail splits the West VIrginia defense after receiving a perfectly thrown pass from Tony Rice. Mountaineers Bo Orlando (22) and R!>bert Pickett (45) give futile chase as 
received starting assignments. linemen Mike Heldt and Tim 
Ismail became the country's Ryan, flanker Ricky Watters, leading kickoff returner by the defensive linemen George end of the year. "Boo" Williams and Chris 
Zorich, and cornerback Todd 
The Fiesta Bowl showed the Lyght. Defensive end Andre nation a glimpse of the poten­Jones, another sophomore, tial Notre Dame has for the started for part of the season next few years. Ismail and and also was a special teams freshman fullback Rodney Cul­standout. ver each scored touchdowns, and Brown was the leading Junior quarterback and Notre Dame receiver. Fiesta Bowl most valuable 
Notre Dame also had six sop­player Tony Rice will return as homores start much of this a senior and Reisman Trophy season, including offensive candidate next season. Ful-
The Observer I Michael Moran 
freshman speedster Ismail glides In for the score that stakes the Irish to a commanding 23-3 lead. 
lbacks Braxston Banks and An­All-American Rick Mirer of thony Johnson will join Rice in nearby Goshen already has the offensive backfield for one committed to Notre Dame. more year, and tailback Tony "One of my goals is to win a Brooks will be wearing a Notre college national title, and the Dame uniform for two more fact that Notre Dame had just seasons. won one, I feel this is a place 
Quarterback is the one area where if we get fired up, it can where the Irish do not appear be done again," Mirer said to be set for the next few years, upon making his decision. mainly because Notre Dame With the players he has re­did not sign a top prospect at turning to South Bend for the that position last recruiting next few years, Holtz can count season. Holtz established quar­on hearing more of that terbacks as a priority for this dynasty talk, whether he likes recruiting year, and Parade it or not. 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 

Lou Holtz used to say that Notre Dame needed more speed throughout its lineup if the Irish were ever to become a national contender. 
"Whoever once said that speed kills is right," said Holtz. 
Alabama and Miami pro­vided all the evidence Holtz needed to support that claim. The Crimson Tide exploited Notre Dame's lack of speed during a 28-10 rout in 1986, and Miami did the same while bat­tering the Irish 24-0 in 1987. 
Notre Dame used successful recruiting and position switches to turn this weakness into a strength. Suddenly, the teams that used to beat the Irish with quickness were get­ting beaten at their own game. 
"When you take the top skill players for Notre Dame, I don't know if any school in the country has a faster .group," said Miami coach Jimmy Johnson. "We don't have that kind of speed." 
The Irish certainly had plenty of speed in the offensive backfield. Quarterback Tony Rice ran a 40-yard dash in 4.48 seconds. Tailbacks Mark Green and Tony Brooks had respective times of 4.42 and 4.47. 
Notre Dame's defensive backs were even quicker than that. D'Juan Francisco (4.33) and Stan Smagala (4.35), both cornerbacks, were two of the team's fastest players on the team. Fellow cornerback Todd Lyght was not far off the pace with a time of 4.41. 
"We have a lot more speed this year," said Lyght. "If somebody goes down, the per­son behind him can step in and do the job." 
Holtz added even more speed to his secondary during spring practices when he moved Pat Terrell from split end to free safety. Terrell, who caught two passes for no touchdowns as a receiver last year, intercepted three passes for one touchdown as a defensive back this season. His 60-yard runback against Miami gave the Irish a 21-7lead in what eventually became a 
Pat Terrell 

31-30 Notre Dame victory. 
Smagala also used his speed to return an interception for a touchdown in a big game. He ran 64 yards to give Notre Dame a 21-7 halftime lead in the 27-10 victory over Southern Cal. 
The only Irish player faster than Francisco and Smagala was split end Raghib "Rocket" Ismail, a 5-10 freshman with 
4.28 speed who ended the season as the top kickoff returner in the nation. 
"Even though a recruit is in the top 100, it doesn't mean he 
-~~·
.... 

. '<v:t; ¥ :...· 
Stan Smagala 
has the speed you need," said former Notre Dame athletic director Gene Corrigan. "Gerry (former coach Faust) just didn't have any speed at all. Lou has done a great job of selecting kids who could really help. And he's looked for speed at every position. Now they've got it everywhere." 
Ismail teamed with junior flankeJJt>unt returner Ricky Watters to form the most ex­plosive kick return duo in the country. 
"I dreamt about him all week long," said Air Force coach 
Tony Brooks 

Fisher DeBerry of Watters, who returned punts for touch­downs against Michigan and Purdue. "Doggone right he's scary. He's going to scare a lot of other people too." 
Ismail certainly scared Rice coach Jerry Berndt, who had to watch the Rocket launch into the endzone during two kickoff returns. 
"I think the biggest mistake I made was when I made that phone call last year," said Berndt, referring to the time he scheduled Rice's game against the Irish. 






