--------~~~---c --~-~~ 
----------------------~------~------------~------~--------------------------­

VOL. XXII, NO. 122 
· THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Derailment kills 40, injures 119 
Associated Press 
New Delhi, India-A dozen cars of a passenger train derailed in a rocky region of central India on Tuesday, kil­ling 40 people and injuring 119 others, officials said. 
The death toll was expected to rise, with at least 20 of the injured in critical condition, said Matthew John, director of railway safety for the Railway Ministry. 
Officials said they did not. know what caused the derail­ment of the 21-car Karnataka Express, which left the south­ern city of Bangalore on Mon­day for New Delhi and was car­rying about 1,000 people. Officials said it ran off the track in a remote region be­tween Lalitpur and Dailwara stations, 280 miles south of New Delhi. 
Eight of the derailed cars rolled down an embankment, John said. About 16 of the train's cars carried passengers and the rest carried freight, he said. 
About 20 people died at the scene and the rest died shortly after arrival at Lalitpur Civil Hospital, two miles from the accident site, John said. 
Twenty of the most critical cases were moved to a hospital in Jhansi, the nearest major town, he said. 
Railway Minister Madhav Scindia arrived at the accident site to supervise rescue opera­tions. All rail travel to southern India was canceled because wreckage blocked the tracks. 

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 1989 

Ueberroth to speak at 1989 Commencement 
Special to The Observer 
Former baseball commis­sioner Peter Ueberroth has been scheduled to address the University of Notre Dame's 144th Commencement Exer­cises on May 21. · The University's Depart­ment of Public Relations and I11,£ormation revealed that Ueberroth, who will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree, will speak to ap­poximately 1700 undergradu­ate and 600 advanced degree candidates at ceremonies in the arena of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Ueberroth became president of the Los Angeles Olympic Or­ganizing Committee in 1979, and his management of the 1984 Summer Olympics resulted in a profit of over $200 million. He was Time magazine's "Man of the Year" for 1984. 
He was named baseball com­missioner in March 1984, and served until March 1989. Ueberroth said that some of the accomplishments he is most proud of under his tenure as commissioner are the major ef­forts to eradicate drugs and in­
creased  fiscal health  of  the  
game.  
Currently,  Ueberroth  is  

pursuing business interests, one of which is the purchase of Eastern Airlines. 
Among the eight other per­sons to whom Notr~ Dame will be awarding honorary degrees is a South Bend high school teacher, Karen McKibben, In-


School children rummage through the wreckage of their devastated classroom, looking for their school books, Tuesday, in Moslem west Beirut. Fierce overnight shelling forced Lebanese citizens to stay in underground shellers for the third straight night, as Christian units of the Lebanese army and Syrian gunner battled. Police reported eight people killed and 43 others wounded. 

honorary doctorate from the University has gone to a sec­ondary school teacher, and University President Father Edward Malloy, emphasized the continuity of education. "As a national university," he said, "Notre Dame has been the beneficiary of the excellent prepartatory academic train­ing of its students." 
"We are happy to recognize the contributions of so many dedicated teachers on the pri­mary and secondary levels by honoring one of the outstanding teachers in our local communi­ty," said Malloy. "Karen McKibben exemplifies the very best of the teaching profes­sion." 
McKibben will receive a doc­tor of laws. 

Others receiving honorary degrees are •Professor David Gardner, president of the Uni­versity of California and pro­fessor of education at the Uni­versity of California, Berkeley, doctor of laws. 
•Professor Robert Gordon, retiring vice president for the... 
advanced  studies  at  Notre  
Dame, doctor of laws.  
•Professor  Friedrich  Hir­ 

zebruch, director of the Max Planck Institute for Mathema­tics, Bonn, West Germany, doc­tor of science. 
•Professor John Kennedy, Rouse Professor of Hydraulics and director of the Iowa In­stitute of Hydraulic Research at the University of Iowa, Iowa 
see SPEAK I page 5 

Maynard discusses 'two different eras' at Smith Journalism Lecture 
By NATASHA WILSON 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Robert Maynard, editor and president of The Tribune in Oakland, Calif., and a nation­ally syndicated columnist, delivered the 1989 Red Smith Lecture in Journalism on Tues­day night at the Center for Con­tinuing Education. 
In his lecture, "Red Smith's America and Mine," Maynard discussed changes in American 
life and journalism during recent decades. 
The lectureship, adminis­tered by the Department of American Studies, honors the late Red Smith, a 1927 graduate of Notre Dame and a revered sportswriter. Sponsored by Coca-Cola USA, the lectureship promotes the teaching of writing and journalism and recognizes high journalism standards. The lectureship began in 1983, a year after Smith's death. 
"Maynard is a commanding 

Robert Maynard 
figure in American journalism. Like Smith, what Maynard has achieved directly influences the careers of others in the profession of journalism," said Associate Professor of Ameri­can Studies Robert Schmuhl in his introduction to Maynard's speech. 
In his address, Maynard dis­tinguished between what he termed two different American eras. The first era, he said, oc­cured during his childhood in the 1940s and 1950s. It was the time when his "values were formed in part through reading journalists of the integrity of Red Smith and later another powerful inspiration, Murray Kempton," a previous Red Smith lecturer. 

"I never knew Red Smith personally, but through his prose he affected me deeply be­cause of the simplicity with which he articulated and the genuine feeling of a human being that came through in his work," Maynard said. 
The second America of sport, he contends, is the fundamen­tally immoral exploitation of amateur athletes at colleges across the country. 
The athletes who are partic­ularly exploited are those recruited from their rural or in­ner city hometowns solely for their athletic ability, the fame and ticket and television reve­nues which they will bring to 

The Observer Wednesday, April 19, 1989
page 2 
WORLD BRIEFS 
Answering machines are 
The world's once richest man, flamboyant Saudi financier Adnan Khashoggi, was arrested Tuesday in Bern, Switzerland on charges he helped Ferdinand and Imelda Marcos hide riches stolen from the Philippines. The jet-setting arms merchant, allegedly brokered the Iran-Contra arms deal, was seized by police at a Bern hotel and jailed after the U.S. Embassy tipped off Swiss authorities, said Pierre Schmid, assistant director of the Swiss Federal Police Office. 
The Soviets decided to bring home the cosmonauts from their space station next week and leave it temporar­ily vacant to save money, but a new crew will be launched in August, the deputy flight director said Tuesday. Viktor Blagov said no technical problems had cropped up in the Mir, the 3-year-old orbiting complex that is the showcase of the Soviet space program. He said plans to keep Soviets aboard the station continuously were abandoned for several reasons, but did not identify them. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
Inflation surged to a 6.1 percent annual rate for the first months of 19H9 from higher food and energy costs, the largest quarterly advance in two years, the govern­ment said Tuesday. Analysts said the bad news isn't over yet. "Inflation was uncomfortably high, widespread and entrenched in March," said Allen Sinai, chief economist for the Boston Co. "We haven't seen tl).e last of these high numbers because there will still be a rippling through of rising business costs for both materials and wages and rising energy costs in the next few months." 
STATE BRIEFS 
A jury deliberated less than two hours Tuesday before convicting three teen-agers of murder in the October shoot­ing of Hammond bank teller Evelyn Sostaric, 60. A Lake Superior Court trial entered a death-penalty phase for alleged triggerman Brian Houchin, 16, of Hammond. The jury was expected to hear more evidence through Wed­nesday before considering whether to recommend the death penalty. Co-defendants Larry Neil Allen; 19, of Calumet City, Ill., and Joseph Hallock, 17, of Hammond, face up to 60 years in prison. The three were arrested Oct. 21 and charged in the Oct. 18 shooting of Sostaric during a holdup at the Mercantile National Bank's Woodmar branch. 
The deaths of two popular Hammond High School students over the weekend have left their classmates in shock and disbelief. Athletic contests were canceled and many students left classes early after administrators an­nounced the apparent suicide Monday of Leslie London, 16, a junior tackle on the varsity football team. Police said he died at an area hospital after apparently shooting him­self at his home. On Saturday, police found sophomore Pamela Brooks dead at her home, with a gunshot wound to the head. Her boyfriend, William Swanson, 19, was ar­rested on a preliminary murder charge and held without bond. 
Former judge Robert Bork, still stinging from the Senate's rejection of his nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court two years ago, says he is the victim of liberals who are attempting to take control of the nation's laws and culture. 
WEATHER 
Mostly sunny and much 

,----~ 
warmer today, highs in the up­per 50s. Clear and cool tonight, lows in the middle to upper 30s. Mostly sunny and mild

ii::l 
Thursday with highs in the middle to upper 60s. 

ALMANAC 
MARKET UPDATE On April 19: 
Closings for Tuesday, April18, 1989

e In 1775: The American Rev· olutionary War began with the Battles 
Dow Jones

of Lexington and Concord. 
Industrial Average 

e In 191 0: After weeks of being viewed through telescopes, Halley's 
+41.61 
Closed at 2379.40

Comet was reported visible to the naked 
full of disadvantages 

I have a confession to make. I have finally been able to come to grips with my guilt, and to admit that I, too, have succumbed to one of the greatest evils on this campus: the answer­ing machine. I recognized the vices of such a possession too late, but there may be time yet to bring some potential buyers to their senses. 
I have come to the conclusion that answering machine owners are just players in one big, electronic game. The goal is to leave the most creative or bizarre greetings, but ones that will prevent callers from hanging up. 
If you invest in a prerecorded greetings cas­sette, you're a cheater. And if you're always at a loss for original greeting ideas, you're dull and boring, and everyone who ever calls won't hesitate to tell you so (or will at least offer to lend you his or her greetings tape). 
All other answering machine owners campus­wide become your competitors, and it's never a surprise to get messages from them-no name, only an evil chuckle followed by: "Oh, I just wanted to listen to your greeting. I've heard so much about it." 
One of the saddest facts about owning an answering machine is that you realize how many people don't call you. At least before, you could convince yourself that so-and-so called while you were out, and will try to get in touch with you later. But you can fool yourself no longer. When the machine's solid red light, sig­naling no messages, greets you after let's say, a five-day absence, you might want to consider packing it up and shipping it back early for the summer. 
The fact is that very few people actually leave messages, and those that do just assume you know their voices by heart, or else they don't believe in last names. Not that every guy on this campus is named John or anything, but sometimes a couple of hints might help. 
If you really think about it, by purchasing answering machines, we are actually choosing to renounce our only means for an excuse when we don't want to return someone's call: "I didn't get the message." No excuse is worth a dime in the vicious world of the answering ma­chine. 
I must admit that at first, my roommates were not as easily fooled as myself. They tried 
OF INTEREST 
Management Opportunities with Gantos, 4:30-5:30 p.m., Haggar College Center, Room 
303. Resumes will be accepted. 
Equestrian Team: there is a mandatory meeting Thursday at 9:30p.m. in Room 222 of the library to elect the 1989-90 officers. 
Any freshman interested in participating in next year's student government should pick up an application on the second floor of LaFor­tune, and return them by Wednesday afternoon. 
Summer Service Project, make-up workshop Thursday at 7 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns for all students going on SSP's next summer who missed the AprilS meeting. 
Beta Alpha Psi and Price Waterhouse present "Challenges and Opportunities for the 90's," a lecture on Information Technologies with demonstrations of experimental technologies by Chris Nolet on Thursday at 4:15 in Hayes­Healy auditorium. 
'No excuse is worth a dime in the vicious world of the answering machine. 
Michelle Berninger Accent Copy Editor 

to warn me of the harms to come, but I was blindly obsessed with my new toy. In fact, they were so against the machine that for months they never forgot to turn it off whenever they left the room. 
As time passed, however, the evil took hold of their sensible minds and they, too, fell victim. We became vultures each time we returned to our room, hovering over the machine by our phone even when the red light signaled only a single message. Even our entertainment took a demented twist. Secretly leaving embarras­ing greetings about each other became fun for all, and we began to delight in the fumbles of our callers. 
Many a roommate battle ensued from a simple ''who-turned-off -the-answering­machine?" inquiry, or because someone took it upon herself to erase all the messages after she alone had heard them. 
But then again, maybe I shouldn't be so cri­tical of such a creative invention. I mean how else in this day and age could you blast your 70-year-old grandmother's ears at such close range with a lengthy verse from "Wild Thing;" or repeatedly insist that a potential employer speak louder because you (who are not really home, anyway) can't hear him; or even treat your parents to two full minutes of suggestive noises and comments-greetings from various classy friends. 
So, as you can see, there really are no winners in the answering machine game. Sure, once in a while Prince Charming may leave a message at the beep, but even then, he'd probably forget to leave his number. 
-Michelle Berninger is a sophomore and an accent copy editor. 
Last Lunch of the Year! An Italian lunch will be served at the Center for Social Concerns tomorrow from 11:30-1 with proceeds going to the CILA Mexico Project. 
Bacchus General Meeting for all those interested in alcohol awareness program on campus will be held in Lewis Hall parlor, tonight at 6:30. For more info call Brian at 283­1714. 
Ushers are needed for all performances of" The Power and The Glory." Sign up at the Dept. of Communication and Theatre, 320 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest announces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lecture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submitted materi­als and determine if and where announcements will be published. -The Observer 
eye in Curacao. e In 1933: The U.S. went off the gold standard. e In 1943: Thousands of Jews living in the Warsaw Ghetto began 
their fight against Nazi occupation 
forces. e In 1951: Gen. Douglas MacArthur, relieved of his command in Korea by President Truman, bade farewell to Congress, saying, "Old sol· diers never die; they just fade away." 
e Ten Years Ago: Egyptians went to the polls in a referendum on the peace treaty with Israel 
Mark ...0069 to 1.8543 DM I $ Yen +.75 to 131.46¥ I$ 
Precious Metals Gold +$2.70 to $383.50 1oz. Silver+ 4.8¢ to $5.761 oz. 
Source: Prudential Bache Securities 

Information compiled from Observer wires and Observer staff reports. -­

Design Editor .............................. Kathy Gliwa Design Assistant.. ................. Cheever Griffin Typesetters ............................. Gilbert Gomez ....................................................... Dan Towers News Editor ............................... Flo Hoeleker Copy Editor............................... Laura Downs Sports Copy Editor............... Molly Mahoney 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 VIewpoint Copy Editor............. Mike Truppa 
Accent Editor......................... Colleen Cronin

(219) 239-7471 Accent Designer .•..................•. Jane Ricciardi Typist.......................................... Rosi Lozada NO Day Editor..•••...••.•..........•.•••.• Kathy Bums SMC Day Editor ....................... Alissa Murphy Photographer ................................ Eric Bailey
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except 
Ada Designers........................... Mindy Breen
during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the 

. ......................................................... Jodi TopelUniversity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur· ..................................................... Dan Stebbins chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. ...•........................... : ................ Tom Connaghan The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights Business Page Editor ........•...•.. Tim O'Keefe are reserved. 
Buslneu Page Copy Editor........ Mike Kolar Buslneu Page Layout .....••.• Janice O'Leary 

---~~~-~-~-------------------------~-----~--------­
Wednesday, April 19, 1989 
Harshman to receive 1989 Reynolds award 
Special to The Observer 
Daniel Harshman, executive director of the Logan Center, will receive the Notre Dame Alumni Association's William 
D. Reynolds award during halftime ceremonies at the Blue-Gold football game, ac­cording to a press release from the Department of Pulic Rela­tions and Information. 
Logan Center is a South Bend agency that serves develop­mentally disabled people. Harshman, a 1968 Notre Dame graduate, began administra­tive work there in 1976 and was named the organization's exec­utive director two years later. 
Harshman will be the fifth recipient of the Reynolds award since its inception in 1984. The award "is conferred on an alumnus or alumna doing exceptional work with youth for the betterment of the quality of life," according to Alumni Association informa­tion. 
"It has been my good fortune to be associated with so many outstanding people at Logan," said Harshman in response to the award. "The individuals and families -served by Logan have such an important story to tell about life and the values of hard work." 
In addition to his work at Logan Center, Harshman was an integral figure in the original Logall'Notre Dame group that prepared the bid for the 1987 International Summer Special Olympics. He also served as a board member for the local organizing committee for the event. 
The award is named after William Reynolds, former president of the Alumni Asso­ciation, who successfully tripled the number of Chicago area students under scholar­ship at Notre Dame in his 10 years in office. Reynolds also worked to counsel and direct students to jobs after gradua­tion. 

Wachel chosen as '89 SMC valedictorian 
KAREN BALCERZAK News anymore than the average stu­Staff dent goes through." Wachel Deanne Wachel has been aslo feels that despite the com­named as St. Mary's valedic­mittment of her double-major, torian for 1989. her social life has not suffered. 
W achel is a chemistrylinath This year Wachel hasn't major, from Munster, Indiana, spent too much time on extra­with a cumulmative grade curricular activities. In the point average of 4.00. past, however, she has been in­
Wachel started out as a volved mainly in academic chemistry major, but dis­clubs such as the math and covered that many of her chemistry clubs. classes overlapped with those W achel has decided to work required for a math major. She next year, but has not yet cho­discovered she liked the sen a particular employer. As courses enough to do a double for any other future possibili­major. ties, Wachel said,"As of now I 
When asked if she feels she's really don't have any definite made any sacrifices, Wachel plans." However, she said that responded, "I wouldn't say it's l!rad school is still a "strong
possibility.'' 


*5 and 6 bedrooms *safe *3 houses left *close to campus 
·CALL LAURA 289-8621 
Gender Studies courses can be found on page 56 of the Preliminary Schedule of Courses booklet. Gender Studies is located in Room 116 of the Center for Social Concerns. 
The Observer page 3 

Students attending Greensburg Elementary take a break from their studies for lunch in Greensburg, La. recently. This semester is the first in St. Helena parish with all black and white students under the same roof. 
Wright on ethics charges: 'I intend to fiqht and to win' 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-House Speaker Jim Wright, opening his defense against a string of ethics committee charges, sought Tuesday to rally Demo­cratic colleagues and told them, "I intend to fight and I intend to win." 
He said that while he may have made mistakes in judg­ment, "I have never done anything to dishonor this insti­tution and I never will." 
In a half-hour speech to a private session of the Demo­cratic Caucus in the House chamber, and later in press releases, Wright chose to con­centrate his defense on one issue: the charge that his wife, Betty, did no substantial work for the $72,000 she received from a Fort Worth friend from 1980 to 1984. 
But more troubling to many of his colleagues were charges that Wright sought to evade House limits on outside earned income through seven bulk sales of his book, "Reflections of a Public Man,'' most of them 
made  in  lieu  of  accepting  
speaking  fees  from  interest  
groups.  
Wright  was  gathering  af­ 

fidavits from people in Fort Worth who said they had worked with his wife and ob­served what she did in return ethics committee to arrange a for her $18,000-a-year salary speedy appearance for the from real estate developer speaker before the committee George Mallick and the part-to answer the charges. 
nership the two couples formed, known as Mallightco. 
He said she had researched investment opportunities in real estate and office tiuilding ventures in Fort Worth and New York and studied invest­ments in a winery, in the movie version of the musical "Annie," and in oil ventures and stock purchases. 
Wright received a standing ovation at the end of his caucus speech, which. included an ad­mission that he had made some errors in judgment and "may have made some mistakes in my life," according to partici­pants. 
He also told his fellow Democrats, who re-elected him as speaker just four months ago, that he did not want to con­tinue to hold the post if he couldn't be an effective leader of the party, according to one member present. 
Emerging from the cham­ber, he told reporters: "I told them I intend to fight and I in­tend to win. I told them I have 
never  done  anything  to  dis­ 
honor  this  insitution  and  I  
never will."  

Wright's lawyer, William Ol­daker, was consulting with the 

Following his speech, most Democratic House members interviewed voiced tentative support for Wright. Many said they had not yet read the ethics committee's voluminous report formally charging him with 69 instances of rules vio­lations, and added that they 
were waiting to see whether the 
panel takes all of those issues 
to a disciplinary hearing. 
Rep. Timothy Penny, D­
Minil., said he was most con­
cerned about Wright's book 
sales, which the ethics panel 
charged were used as a ruse to 
circumvent the rule that caps 
outside earned income at 30 
percent of a member's salary. 
"If there's a rigid interpreta­
tion of the rules, he's OK," 
Penny said. "But if there's 
strong evidence they were 
trying to circumvent income 
limits, that's a gray area." 
~ Penny said he did not attend 
Wright's speech because he 
was uncomfortable with what 
he termed efforts by the Dem­
ocratic leadership to make the 
ethics case into a test of par­
tisan loyalty. 
"We're trying to make it us 
against them, Democrats 
against Republicans. 
That's not the nature of these 
ethics questions," he said. 

ATIENTION: Grad Students, Professors, Employees 
MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Less than 1 0 minutes from campus 

* Pool, Clubhouse * locked intercom entrances 
• Washer &dryer in each apartment • flexible leases 
( also -furnished executive suites ) call for details-277-3731 
(QUAl HOUSING 
OPPII!TIJNITY 


---~-­
Wednesday, April 19, 1989
The Observer 

Walesa is 'satisfied' with Solidarity's reconciliation 

Associated Press 
WARSAW, Poland-Lech Walesa shook hands Tuesday with Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski, the man who ordered the Solidarity founder arrested in 1981, and the Polish leader said later he was satisfied by the symbolic reconciliation. 
~ Walesa did not speak to 
I 
I . 
reporters after the meeting with Jaruzelski, their first since 
I 
Nov. 4, 1981-five weeks before 
l 
the martial-law crackdown. 
A fragment of the emotion­ally charged session appeared on Polish TV news. "A moun­tain with a mountain ..." said J aruzelski as he greeted Walesa. 
"I hope we will never part again," replied Walesa. 
Jaruzelski's greeting was the beginning of a saying in Polish that in full goes: "a mountain with a mountain cannot meet, but a man can meet a mari." 
The face-to-face meeting be­
. tween the man who once sought to crush Solidarity and the one who vowed to revive it lasted for about one hour in a com­fortable reception room in the 
Solidarity advisor Tadeusz Mazowiecki greets supporters outside the 
parliament building on a 
Warsaw provincial court where the union was declared legal again, 
wooded bluff near downtown 
ending seven years of government suppression. Solidarity founder Lech 
Warsaw. It occurred one day
Walesa later urged Poles to rebuild the union "skillfully and quickly." 
after Solidarity was declared legal again. 
Jaruzelski rarely speaks to 
reporters, but after the 
meeting he gave an impromptu 
news conference. "I feel satis­
faction. We have come a very 
difficult and long way," he 
said. 

"Reconciliation is a process, 
not an act. So if we talk about 
an act, it is rather the round 
table," referring to the two 
months of negotiations that led 
to agreements April 5 between 
the opposition and communist 
authorities. 

Outside the parliament build­
ing after the meeting, W alesa 
smiled and shook hands with 
Jaruzelski; Gen. Czeslaw 
Kiszczak, the interior mini­
ster; and other party and gov­
ernment leaders. 

Other opposition participants also were reserved in com­menting on the meeting. Many of them were imprisoned fol­lowing the Dec. 13, 1981 martial-law decree issued by J aruzelski to suppress the East bloc's first independent trade union. 
Official photographs showed Walesa and Jaruzelski laughing together. In one photograph, Walesa had a glass of cognac on a table in front of him. 
Walesa wore his traditional :Solidarity pin and a badge with 

a picture of the Black Madonna 
of Czestochowa, Poland's most 
revered religious icon, on his 
lapel. 
The occasion was a reception 

given by Jaruzelski immedi­
ately after the first meeting of 
the Arbitration Commission, a 
group set up to oversee imple­
mentation of economic and po­
litical reforms. 
Jaruzelski did not exclude further meetings with Walesa. 
Jaruzelski led a reluctant Communist Party to allow reinstatement of Solidarity, 
and he hopes the movement will help in pulling Poland out of its economic crisis. 
During its first legal phase in 1980-81, the union claimed 10 million members out of an 18 million-member workforce. Union leaders expect Solidarity to attract 5 million to 7 million members now that it is legal again. 
A government spokesman portrayed the meeting as a sign Poland has changed course after the historic round table agreements that also permit the opposition to field indepen­dent candidates to the existing parliament and a new 100­member senate. 
Two suspects sought in Monday's K-mart bombing 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-Two men seen leaving a K mart store after a pipe bomb exploded in the hand of a 5-year-old girl were sought Tuesday for ques­tioning. 
Erin Bower lost her left hand and may recover only partial sight in her left eye as a result of the explosion Monday night at a K mart on the far northeast side of Indianapolis, physicians at Methodist Hospital said. 
Her mother, Maurine, 31, was slightly wounded by flying bomb fragments, but no others were hurt in the 7:45 p.m. ex­plosion in the Castleton area. 
"We're very lucky," said Erin's father, Kevin Bower. "We have a daughter. Many people have gone through much worse than this." 
The men wanted for ques­tioning, both believed to be about 20 years old, drew police attention with their nonchalant attitude following the explo­sion. 
"Usually people want to rush to see what's going on. These two gentlemen apparently left while everybody else was going in the opposite direction," said Detective Sgt. Mike Kouns of the Marion County Sheriff's Department. 
Police released sketches of the men compiled from employees' descriptions. 
The two men and the frag­ments of a pipe bomb con­cealed in a pump-type tooth­paste container were the hardest leads police were fol­lowing Tuesday. 
"We are F."''·""'F. the conlmtmit. 

TEMPORARY INDUSTRIAL POSITIONS 
Indianapolis manufacturer may be hiring temporary production employees for the summer session. Hourly wage will be $7.50. Positions will require shift work and overtime. 
To apply, please call 
1-800-438-0041 

Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/HN 
continue to investigate," said Sheriff Joseph McAtee. 
Investigators searching for a motive also planned to question K mart employees and those recently fired by the store, which reopened Tuesday mor­ning without incident. 
The bomb, which was made of a l-inch pipe and apparently filled with black powder, may have been powered by a bat­tery and detonated when it was picked up from a store shelf, said Charles Petersen, resident agent in charge of the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms in Indianapolis. 
About 50 people were in the store at the time of the explo­sion, an hour before closing time. The girl apparently picked up the toothpaste tube from a shelf where trash bags were stocked toward the rear of the store, officials said. 
The blast caused minimal damage to the store's inven­tory. 
The bomb's fragments were shipped to an A TF laboratory in Washington for further anal­ysis, Petersen said. 
"It's certainly a little more sophisticated than the average pipe bomb. It took a little bit of knowledge and quite a bit of work, I think, to construct it," Petersen said, adding that the bomb had no similarities to others found in Indiana in recent years. 
Plastic surgeons worked un­til 5 a.m. Tuesday trying to save the left hand and eye of Erin, a kindergarten student at 
St. Pius Elementary School. 
Dr. William Nunery, a spe­cialist in ophthalmology, plas­tic and reconstructive surgery, said he was cautiously optimis­tic about her eyesight. 

"There may be some vision left in the-left eye. The right eye appears to be all right, but the left eye has been cut open by the force of the blast and by flying debris," he said. 
"Those injuries can heal with time and they can sometimes be repaired," Nunery said. 
Erin's left hand could not be saved, but the muscles and nerves in the forearm are in­tact, said Dr. Michael Levine, a plastic surgeon. 
"I don't think it's beyond the realm of possibility or proba­bility that she will ultimately have a prosthesis and be fairly successful with it," Levine said. 


LOOKING FOR A STUDY BREAK? NEED A LITTLE LAUGHTER IN YOUR DAY? Then come see: 
TOM ANZALONE 
comedian estraordinaire! Don't miss him! 

Show starts at 9:00 Thursday Nite 

-----~-~-­ - --~-­-----~­ 
Wednesday, April 19, 1989  The Observer  page 5  


AP Photo

Barriers Removed 
Welder Peter Smith begins the task Tuesday of removing steel barriers which bar the way onto the Tottenham Hotspur pitch at their White Hart Lane, London, ground. Tottenham decided to move their barriers following the disaster at the Hillsborough, Sheffield ground, Saturday, when 94 soccer fans lost their lives in the crush against similar barriers. 
HPC announces Rector of the Year 
Redbud Fine Art Workshop Redbud Trail Retreat Buchanan, MICHIGAN 
May 22 -June 3, 1989 
3-credit courses in: 
Body Sculpture 

Creative Writing 
DrawingtPainting 
Mixed-Media Printmaking 
sponsored by the St. Mary's Art Department call 284-4655 for information and applications 
Gibson demonstrates software techniques 
By SHANNON RYAN News Staff 
Professor Jim Gibson, an art­ist in the medium of electron pictures, demonstrated software and image manipula­tion techniques as part of the Visiting Artists Program of the Saint Mary's art department on Tuesday night in Moreau Hall. 
Gibson, an art professor at Northern State College in Aber­deen, South Dakota, has been involved in the construction of animated vidoetapes via mi­crocomputer for the past six years. Before entering the field, he was an expressionistic painter and a printmaker. 
"Getting into animation was like being reborn," Gibson said. "After twenty or thirty years of art, it was very rejuvenating to discover this." 

The Sauder Award for hall spirit was awarded to Lewis Using the Commodore Hall. Lewis' unity and enthus­Amiga microcomputer, Gibson iasm contributed to their demonstrated different steps in championships in both inter­the animation process such as hall football and interhall "tweening", which eliminates basketball. Both dorms were the artist's need to redraw commended on their extraordi­every frame of an illustration nary and enthusiastic activi­in transit, and "blitting", cut­ties. ting and pasting parts of the 
image on the screen. Gibson 

In other business, the 1988-89 uses several different pro­hall presidents elected Diane grams to produce his art, which Toohey of Pasquerilla East and he likens to acrylic painting. Megan Hanley of Pasquerilla "I'm not into slick anima­
West to head the 1989-90 Hall tion, like on the T.V. news or Presidents' Council. the Olympic graphics," said 
Charles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism 
presents 
PROPHETIC VISION: CONTEMPORARY WOMEN NOVELISTS AND THE AMERICAN CATHOLIC EXPERIENCE 
Professor Anita Gandolfo 
English Department West Virginia University 

Hesburgh Library Lounge Thursday, April 20, 1.989 University of Notre Dame 
4:15P.M. 

Admission Free 
Gibson. "They (computer scientists) love things plastic, rounded, perfectly smooth. In my art you must still use artis­tic sensibilities." 
Gibson said that he spends up to three months on the com­puter to produce thirty seconds of videotape material. After transmitting the imagery from the computer to the VCR, he then adds the soundtrack, 
which  is  also  computer­ 
generated through  a  special  
program.  

"My biggest challenge is that people who are habituated to television are used to things making sense and have a diffi­cult time viewing my work. They don't want just one image moving around, they want something to happen, they want continuity," said Gibson. 
Although, according to Gib­son, the possibility of graphic art via computer has existed for twenty years, electron art has evolved only in the last ten years. 
Gibson, who continues to paint on the side, is currently experimenting with combining his paintings with animation techniques. 
"In the future people won't talk about 'computer art,' com­puters will be an accepted medium of the visual arts just like oil painting or water­color," said Gibson. 
hall. Both rectors are also com­mended for helping their dorms become involved in community service. Smith helped to establish a scholarshsip fund for a needy student in the South Bend area. It was announced that McKenna will be leaving Sorin after this semester to go to Ireland next year. 


By PETER LOFTUS News Staff 
Brother Mike Smith of Flan­ner Hall and Joe McKenna of Sorin Hall were both named Rector of the Year Tuesday at the Hall Presidents' Council banquet. 
Each rector is noted for his dedication to his respective 
Speak 
continued from page 1 
City, doctor of engineering. 
•Most 
Rev. Roger Mahony, archbishop of Los Angeles, doc­tor of laws. 

•Andrew 
McKenna, president and chief executive officer of Schwarz Paper Company, and a Notre Dame trustee, doctor of laws. 

•Clifton 
Wharton, chairman and chief executive officer of Teachers Insurance and An­nuity Association-College Re­tirement Equities Fund (TIAA­CREF), New York City, doctor of laws. 


Join The Observer 
As part of the graduation process, federal regulations require all students who have borrowed from the Stafford Loan Program (formerly Guaranteed Student Loan) and the Supplemental Loan for Students (SLS) to attend an exit interview before leaving the University. The exit interview will review your rights and responsibilities for repaying your loan(s), deferment options and loan consolidation benefits. For your convenience, we have scheduled ten exit interview sessions. 
Please plan on attending one.  
Tuesday, April 18th  7:00-7:30 PM  
Lafortune  7:45-8:15 PM  
Notre Dame Room  8:30-9:00 PM  
Wednesday, April 19th  2:00-2:30 PM  
LaFortune  2:45-3: 15 PM  
Notre Dame Room  3:30-4:00 PM  
4:15-4:45 PM  
Thursday, April 20th  7:00-7:30 PM  
Lafortune  7:45-8:15 PM  
Notre Dame Room  8:30-9:00 PM  

SENIORS 
WONDERING WHAt TO DO AFTER GRADUATION? THINKING ABOUT TAKING A YEAR OFF BEFORE LAW SCHOOL? OR MEDICAL SCHOOL? 
A CHICAGO LAW FIRM IS LOOKING FOR PEOPLE WITH AN INTEREST IN LAW OR WITH AN INTEREST IN THE MEDICAL FIELD. 
IF THIS SOUNDS INTERESTING TO YOU PLEASE SIGN UP AT THE CAREER AND PLACEMENT 
CENTER  OR  AT  COUNSELING  AND  CAREER  
DEVELOPMENT CENTER AT ST. MARY'S.  WE WILL  
BE  CONDUCTING  INTERVIEWS  AT  ST.  MARY'S  

AND NOTRE DAME MONDAY APRIL 24TH. 
Terrence M. Johnson 
For more information The Monadnock Bldgplease write or call: 

53 W. Jackson Blvd Chicago, IL 60604 (312) 922-4022 

page 6 The Observer Wednesday, April 19, 1989 
House supports closing of 86 bases Maynard 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The House voted overwhelmingly Tues­day to back a plan to close 86 military bases and scale back five more despite complaints that the move will not save as much as advocates had promised. 
By a vote of 381-43, the House rejected a resolution to disap­prove the recommendations of the Commission on Base Realignment and Closure, giving the green light for Defense Secretary Dick Cheney to follow through on the panel's proposals beginning in January. 
"It is incumbent upon all of us to make sure this base closing list is implemented," the chairman of the House Armed Services Chairman, Rep. Les Aspin, D-Wis., said moments before the vote. 
The only Indiana congress­men to vote in favor of the resolution were two southern state Democrats, Lee Hamil­ton and Frank McCloskey. 
The commission's recom­mendations affect a total of 145 domestic military installations by closing some, reducing the operations of others and chang­ing the missions of additional bases. 
The commission recommen­ded the following changes at In­diana installations: closing the Jefferson Proving Grounds north of Madison at a cost of 390 jobs and an annual savings of $6.56 million and reorganiz­
ing two bases, the Indiana Army Ammunition plant in Clark County with no change in employment and Fort Ben­jamin Harrison in Indianapolis with 1,309 new jobs. 
The law establishing the commission, the Base Closure and Realignment Act, requires that, once approved by the sec­

retary of defense, the commis­sion's recommendations proceed unless both houses of Congress vote to disapprove them, in which case none of the proposals would take effect. 
The House action means the changes proposed by the com­mission will proceed. 
In debate before the vote, op­ponents of the move said it would not save as much money as the commission projected. 
"This list simply does not save money," said Rep. Jim Saxton, R-N.J. 
He was jointed by represen­tatives from Illinois and Cali­fornia in saying that the plan would not save $694 million in the first year, or $5.6 billion over 20 years, as the commis­sion projected. 
"In terms of savings, I don't believe they're there. In terms of expenditures, I believe thy're underestimated," said Saxton, who opposes the closing of Fort Dix in his home state. 
Saxton cited a congressional report that said the savings in closing Fort Dix had been over­estimated by $20 million. 
The New Jersey representa­tive also noted that a report by the General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress, had found that the commission used incorrect data in its analysis of Army training centers, including Fort Dix. 
"Had accurate data been used, Fort Dix would hae been ranked first," Saxton said. 
Rep. Terry Bruce, D-Ill., said the estimated savings rely on major defense policy changes, including reductions in person­nel, and not on the closing and realigning of bases. 

continued from page 1 
colleges, he said. · 
Maynard has been the editor of The Tribune since 1979. He purchased the newspaper in 1983, becoming the first black to own a major metropolitan daily. He began writing his column for Universal Press Syndicated in 1985, and it ap­pears in over 150 newspapers. 
An associate editor, national correspondent, and editorial writer for The Washington Post from 1967-1977, Maynard founded the Institute for Jour­nalism Education in 1977. The Institute, which he directed for almost two years, trains minorities for careers in jour­nalism. 
Maynard, a high school drop­out, was a Nieman Fellow at Harvard University in 1966. He has been awarded several honorary doctorate degrees in recent years. 
SECURITY BEAT 
MON., APRIL 10 SUN., APRIL 16 
8:05 a.m. A visitor to Notre

4 p.m. A resident of Dillon 1:40 p.m. An employee of
Dame reported the theft of 

Before After
Hall reported the theft of his Notre Dame reported that he.
personal property from her

license plate from his vehicle in had seen an unknown suspect
motor vehicle while parked in 

the D-1 Lot sometime on or steal an auto part from the
the parking area of Moreau

before 3/24. Total losses are fieldhouse at the JACC near
Seminary sometime between 4

estimated at $24.50. Gate 3. Auto part is valued at
o.m.. 4/13 and 10 am.. 4/14. 

$2500. 
TIJE., APRIL 11 
3:20 p.m. A Grace Hall MON., APRIL 17 3:15p.m. A resident of Zahm resident reported vandalism 
1:53 a.m. A Notre Dame
Hall reported the theft of his CD done to his vehicle while parked 
graduate student reported the
player from his unsecured in the D 2 Lot sometime 
theft of personal property from a
dorm room sometime between between 2 and 5 p.m. on 4/14. 
classroom in Cushing Hall
11 and 11:30 a.m.. Estimated damages are un­


sometime between 9:30 p.m. and
5:10p.m. A Notre Dame em­known. 
midnight on 4/16. Total losses
ployee reported the theft of his 
St. Edward's Hall
estimated at $30 .
leather jacket and sunglasses 
from outside of gym #1 of 

Charity Carnival
JACC sometime between 5:10 
and 6:10 p.m.. Total losses 
estimated at $409. 
Sunday, April 23
$1.00 off for ND/SMC students (with ID) 
FRI., APRIL 14 
Noon-11 :OOpm
4:36 a.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of her 
Stepan Center
jacket and its contents from the 
coat room of Alumni -Senior 
Club sometime that evening. 
P. S. Bring lots of quarters!
Total losses estimated at $40 . 
1:45 p.m. A Notre Dame em­ployee reported the theft of a basketball from his office sometime between 5:30 p.m., 
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY
4/13 and 8:30 a.m., 4/14. Total 
loss is estimated at $45 . 
Packing and Shipping
2:55 p.m. A resident of Carroll 
Hall reported the theft of his 
Supplies
bicycle from outside Carroll 
Hall sometime between 10 a.m. 
U.P.S.-BUS-Emery
and 10 p.m., 4/5. Total loss is 
estimated at $40 . 
SAT., APRIL 15 
12:05 a.m. A resident of South 
Next Day Service! Bend was issued a citation on Juniper road by Notre Dame Security for traveling 47 m.p.h. 
/ Western Union 
I

in a posted 25 m.p.h. zone. 


Attention Sophomores 
SUMMER SESSIONS 1989 
Prof!.rams at Geo!"f!.elom.n Prof!.rams abroad 
0 (h·er ZOO l(radaale and undcr~raduatc 0 ,\nt\\crp. lldl(ium-lnt"l. Trade courses 
0 Tours. I· ranee-Language and Cuhure 0 Public M!Jirs Internships 
0 Ficsolc. I tal) -halian
Place: your ring order before you leave 
0 lligh School l'rul(rams 0 l>illinl(cn. (;ermany-Teachers 0 lntercohoral Training 
0 <ireece -Humanities 0 lmcrprctation and Transhuion ln'ititutc 
0 Oxford. Enl(land-Comparati•·e
for SUMMER VACATION. This will 
0 l.anguagc ( :Ourses llusiness (undergraduate) 
0 Theolol(y Conference 0 Oxford, Enl(land-lntcrnational
0 l.itcrar' ( :riticism ( :onfcrence \lanagemcnt (graduatd 
0 lnS!itutc for II.S. Teacher. 0 !jui(u, Ecuador-S1>anish 0 Sacred Snipwre Institute 0 Trier. \\'est (icrman~·-Cicrman 0 Alumni ( :OIIcl(e 0 \Iiddie East-II.S. Teacher> 
0 English"' a ForciKn l.ani(Ual(c 

assure you of having it when you 
return to school in the fall. 
Stssions · 

Pre-1\lay 22-june 16 Call (202) 687-5942 or mail to:
HOURS: 1:00 P.M. to 4:30P.M. 
First-June 12·July 14 SSCE-Georgetown l"ni•·ersity 8-Week Cross Session-June I 2-August 4 306 Intercultural Center Second-July 17-Augus.t I!! Washington. D.C. 20057
·Monday -Friday 
Smd mort i•/om~~~tio•: 
~arne 

IN THE OFFICE ON THE FIRST FLOOR 
Address ---------------------------------------­
------------------------------ZiP'-----­
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE (;_,,.., l.'•ttrrsi(J iJ ""-'•/WIII•W•//ii"'WWtfJfMii• 1-.slilttliM i• ,,u,.,.,aJMt~~isnMS. 
Business 
page 7

Wednesday, April 19, 1989 
Business symposium probes social teaching 
Recent Catholic social encyclicals and the economy will be focus of meeting 
By JOHN O'BRIEN nomic decisions," Williams disciplines don't speak with 
The ReceniSocial _ of the Catholic Church:
Business Writer said. "You can't neglect how each other." these decisions affect people, While.the symposiumn is free The Maki(lg of an Ec::onomic Counter Culture? A symposium entitled "The especially poor people." for Notre Dame students and Recent Social Teachings of the According to Williams, the faculty, according to Williams, 
Schedule* 
Catholic Church: The Making symposium will focus on three it traditionally draws people of an Economic Countercul­aspects of the encyclicals: from across the country. "In 12 Noon Lunch ture?" will take place April 24-what they have to say laborers, the past we have drawn be­2:00 p.m. Session 6 26 at the Center for Continuing to business leaders and to the tween 50-300 registered visitors 3:15p.m. Break Education. American society in general. (which does not include stu­
3:30 p,.ftl, Sps!on 7 
The symposium is being con­dents and faculty) and we can 
5:oo p.m~:Cocktails:
vened by the Notre Dame Cen­"A good number, perhaps a expect about the same this · ····-· Morris Inn ter for Ethics and Religious third of the speeches, are focus­year," he said. 
6:00 p.m. Dinner
values in association with the ing specifically on what the en­Williams added that he has 
7:30 p.m. Session 8
Center for Continuing Educa­cyclicals have to say to some­received numerous requests tion. one who is an executive in U.S. for press credentials, including 
"The Pope has issued two business," said Williams. "Ot­one from the Chicago Tribune. Wednesday, April26 major encyclicals that have to hers will focus on some of the 8:00am. Continental do with economics and ethics, countercultural tendencies of The Center for Ethics and Breakfast: 
and the American Bishops the encyclicals, asking us to Religious Values in Business is CCEbalcony have introduced a major pas­lead a simpler lifestyle." co-directed by Williams and 8:30 a.m. Session 9 toral letter on ethics and eco­John Houck, professor of man­9:45 a.m. Coffee Break nomics. The basic purpose is to Speakers for the symposium agement at Notre Dame, and 10:00 a.m. Session 10 
look at those documents and come from many different dis­was formed over 10 years ago. 
11 :45 a.m. Closing Lunch 
ask 'What do they have to say ciplines, according to Wil­to us today,"' said Fr. Oliver liams. The speakers come from The symposium is sponsored Williams, associate provost of the disciplines of philosophy, by the College of Business Ad­
The Stanton

the University and one of the theology, history, economics ministration, the John M. Olin will have a two-fold
tures are gathered and pre­posiumconference conveners. and politics. They include busi­Foundation, the General sented in book form. beneficial effect. 
The symposium is centered ness professors, theologians, Electric Foundation and the "All the papers are put out 
on two major encyclicals scholars, business leaders and Hershey Foods Corporation, as "Businessmen who come will
and then John (Houck) and I

issued by Pope John Paul II in religious leaders. well as the Center for Ethics learn about what these encycli­
write the introduction to the

the last ten years: Laborem and Religious Values in Busi­cals say about their economic
book," said Williams. "These

Exercens (On Human Work) "One of the key goals is to ness and the Center for Con­decisions, teachers who come
books are quite well known and 

and Sollicitudo Rei Socialis get people of different disci­tinuing Education. are in will learn more about how to
used many graduate

(The Social Concerns of the plines together to talk about bring across these ideas to
courses and undergraduate

Church). what these social teachings The Center has directed a thier students more effective­
courses throughout the

"The general theme of the mean for us for our times," symposium every two years ly, and when the book comes
country," he said. 

encyclicals is that we have to said Williams. He added that since its formation ten years out, it will be a good resource bring a moral dimension to eco-"so often people of different ago. Each symposium's lee-Williams said that the sym-to aid teachers," he said. 
Mandatory health insurance considered 
Associated Press and provide incentives for million--are workers or their Hospital Association in those that do. families. Their numbers have Chicago. 
At least a dozen states are New York, Washington and a grown about 1 ·million a year Seven years later, losses for considering laws that would few other states have adopted since 1980, their ranks swelled treating the poor rose to $7.2 force companies to insure their pilot projects to provide health by workers who once held well­billion, or 4. 7 percent of total employees as a way to stem bil­care to the working poor. paying factory jobs and now hospital costs, she said. lions of dollars in hospital And last week in Washington, work in the service industry. Many workers are unable to losses and protect some of the D.C., Sen. Edward Kennedy, D­pay their bills because their 37 million Americans without Mass., and Rep. Henry Wax­Hospitals have been prime employers provide no insur­health insurance. man, D.-Calif., introduced supporters of the effort on the ance and they earn just enough 
Hawaii in 1974 became the federal legislation that would state and federal levels to in­to be ineligible for assistance first state in the nation to adopt require employers to buy sure the poor. Small businesses through Medicaid, which has a mandatory insurance law, health insurance for all full­oppose mandatory insurance, wage ceilings that vary from and it was followed last year time workers. Similar legisla­saying they cannot afford to state to state. by Massachusetts. tion failed last year. provide health care benefits. 
"It is time to make health In 1980, hospitals lost $2.8 bil­According to the National
This year, California, care a basic right for all, not lion in health care costs for Governors Association, a fam­Florida, Illinois, Ohio and other just an expensive privilege for which they received no reim­ily of three in Alabama could states are debating bills that the few," Kennedy said. 
bursement, or about 3.6 per­earn only $1,416 per year to be would order companies to More than 37 million cent of their total costs, said eligible for Medicaid, while the cover workers, impose tax Americans lack health insur­Irene Fraser, a health project same family in Utah could earn 
penalties on those that don't ance; about two-thirds--24 manager with the American $8,316. 
Stock and bond certificates maysoon be a relic of the past 
History, though, is working against tum rapidly as issuers have sought to close to 50 percent this year. 
LOUIS RUKEYSER 
Many individual investors in
these traditionalists, too. More and reduce their costs by eliminating cer­
Tribune Media Services 
more investors are finding it con­tificates for new bonds. Some individ­municipal bonds are less than 
enthralled. A survey conducted by the 
It's tough to be a cartoonist lampoon­venient to leave their holdings with ual investors may grumble, but finan­ing Wall Street today. their brokers, which as a practical mat­cial institutions tend to love it, focusing 
Market Facts research firm found that They keep changing the visual cliches ter means relying on monthly computer on the convenience and economy of 83 percent of muni owners favored on you. printouts. And in some areas, notably computerized records. And it means maintaining the traditional system of "Fat cat" and "bloated capitalist" debt securities such as bonds, investors big business for companies like getting and storing physical certif­don't really work when it comes to such increasingly may have no choice. The Depository Trust, the largest of several 
icates, either themselves or with their current targets as Frank Lorenzo and frame-worthy certificates that bond firms specializing in computerized brokers. In addition to concerns about Michael Milken, who look more like purchasers have been receiving for security-processing systems. computer security and accuracy, there 
poster boys for Jack LaLanne. The old more than 200 years may soon go the What many see as the eventual death are complaints about new maintenance ticker-tape machine has been gone way of high-buttoned shoes, the buggy knell for stock and bond certificates of fees and other charges instituted to longer than Lindbergh. And when the whip and five-cent cigars. all kinds first sounded with federal cover the costs of "book entry only." 
stock market crashed Oct. 19, 1987, not While stock investors can still usually legislation in 1973, authorizing a soul plummeted in panic through the get a certificate if they want it, bond depository systems for institutions but So far, though, the issuers and insti­
tutions seem to be winning. Nor is the 
canyons of Wall Street; the windows in investors often don't have the option. specifying that individual investors trend restricted to municipal bonds; in
the new office buildings are sealed shut. There's an unmistakable trend toward could continue to request certificates. Then there's the ornately engraved replacing phy~ical certificates with a "Book entry only" deals, limiting in­1987 IBM Credit Corporation dis­
tributed the first "book entry only" se­
stock or bond certificate, a relic that is computerized record of bond transac­vestors to a "beneficial" interest in se­perennially endangered but has so far tions, forcing the investor to rely solely curities they never actually see, began curity to be listed on the New York survived for a most excellent reason: on the blip of a computer memory and to emerge just four years ago, but they Stock Exchange, and other uses range despite decades of soothing words from a broker's confirmation slip to prove have spread like a computer virus, ac­through the modern debt spectrum, 
from convertible money-market
those who want to eliminate it, millions ownership. counting for 35 percent of all municipal of averge investors just plain don't In recent years this approach, called bonds sold in 1988. Municipal bond preferred stocks to mortgate-backed trust the computers. "book entry only," has gained momen-specialists think the portion may reach securities and warrants. 


Viewpoint 
Wednesday, April 19, 1989 


LETTERS 
To divest or not to divest
P.O. Box 0, 1\lotre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
Divestment will not lead to a loss of funds for ND 
1989-90 General Board 

Dear Editor: shares to someone else. If the leads to a career as a CPA in The purpose of this letter is stock has gone up in value since a Big-8 firm, or as a grade­
Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly 

to respond to a particular point the date of purchase, we make school teacher, we will all be 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
in Tom Varnum's Viewpoint money. The issuing corpora­involved in managing our per­
Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
column of April 12, 1989. tion is not affected. The presi­sonal finances. In order to do 
Exec. News Editor .... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Killen 
Mr. Varnum stated "If Notre dent of the issuing corporation so, a basic understanding of the 
Viewpoint Editor ................. Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ....... Shannon Roach 
Dame decides to divest, is not affected. workings of financial markets
Sports Editor ....•...............•. Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks Accent Editor .......................... John Blasi Systems Manager ............. Mark Derwent 
Keough (Donald, President of Mr. Varnum has neglected to is essential. 
Photo Editor •.•......................... Eric Bailey OTS Dlrector ................... Angela Bellanca 
Coca-Cola and Chairman of the explain the reasoning behind Maybe then, we would not be 
Controller .......•.......•............ Anne Lindner 

University's Board of Trus­his aforementioned quote. How subjected to the type of mis­tees) and Coca-Cola stand to then does he arrive at the con­leading statements and flawed 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni· 
lose money." clusion that: "Apparently, reasoning contained in Mr.
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately 
Mr. Varnum's statement in­with Keough and the board of Varnum's column. 
and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority 
dicates that he does not com­directors, money talks and 
of the following: Editor·m·Chief. Managing Editor. Executive News Editor. Viewpoint 
prehend the nature of modern morals walk?" AlbertS. Mazloom 
Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members 
financial markets. W~ all must live in the real Michael Chambers 
of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through 
Once stock is originally world after graduation. Whe­Morrissey Hall 
letters, is encouraged. 
issued by a corporation, most ther one's course of studies April14, 1989 subsequent transactions do not 
involve the issuing corpora­Investing in South Africa goes EDITORIAL tion. Individuals and large in­
against Catholic ideals 
stitutional investors are then free to buy and sell the stock Dear Editor: falls, who is hurt more? Invest-as they wish, usually through Those who say divestment ing in South Africa goes against 
Wright should 
various national exchanges. from South Africa will only every Catholic ideal, and it is In plain English: Coca-Cola cause blacks to suffer more are appalling that Notre Dame sup­does not stand to lose money if missing the point. When two ports apartheid with our tuition
resign if convicted 
Notre Dame divests of its hold-men are standing on a ladder, money. Chris Burke ing in the company, nor does one on the top rung and one on Flanner Hall Mr. Keough. Wesimplysellour the bottom, and the ladder April13, 1989
On Monday, the U.S. House ethics committee handed down what amounts to an indictment against 
Hpnors Program offers challenges and hard work
Speaker of the House Jim Wright. In their report and the report of an independent 
Dear Editor: that involved the program; in (and that's what it was, despite counsel, Wright was charged with 69 violatipns of the 
As a member of the Honors fact, our monthly colloquia are Mr. Hennig's best attempts to rules of the House. Among the more serious charges 
Program at the University of open to anybody who wishes to make it seem that he wasn't Notre Dame, I was very much attend. We are not fostering an accusing him), has no bearing
was the allegation that Wright attempted to skirt the 
offended by the inflammatory elitist program. As an honors on the argument at all.
limit on speaking honoraria by having at least three 
Viewpoint article attacking student, I don't consider myself I will readily agree with Mr. 
separate organizations buy copies of his book, 
this organization (The Obser­to be better than everybody Hennig that the presence of
"Reflections of a Public Man." Wright would then 
ver, April 13) . I would like to else here on campus, and it is the program is needed in every profit by the extremely high royalties he received. 
take the opportunity to respond my belief that constantly college at Notre Dame, not just It was also alleged in the committee report that 
to some of Mr. Hennig's points making a public spectacle of Arts and Letters and Sciences. and criticisms. my membership would be seen And I certainly will not argue
Wright failed to report gifts received by him from a 
The Honors Program was not as even more of an elitist move against the need for a greater
Texas businessman. This businessman also gave a 
a factor in my applying to this on my part than not bringing it level of intellectual stimula­
job to Wright's wife and provided two residences for 
university; the only reason I up and trying to fit into campus tion. Unfortunately, when he
the Wrights in Texas. Unreported gifts violate House 
did was that my mother wanted life just like everyone else, as resorts to calling us a bunch of
rules. 
me to apply to at least one Cath­several other honors students I "nerds," he displays an anti­The House committee will now decide if there is 
olic university. However, my know do through their partici­intellectual snobbery much enough substance to these charges to warrant bring­
eligibility for the Honors Pro­pation in the band, the choir, more real in nature than this ing them before the whole House. If this happens, 
gram was the major factor in and the cheerleading squad, mysterious elitism that sup­my deciding to come here. I among others. One of us even posedly exists. 
Wright's political future is in serious jeopardy. 
can safely say that it was a writes for The Observer. In the end, the Honors Pro­major factor in the decisions of Hardly the actions of a bunch gram is a good thing. Just as
If the allegations against Wright prove to be true, 
several other honors students. of elitists. tutoring is available to students
he should step down as speaker and resign his seat 
This decision was not The most base allegation is who find the general curricu­
in Congress. 
motivated by some greedy that of preferential grading lum a bit too challenging, the
For some reason a different ethical standard has 
desire for "special treatment." given to us simply because we Honors Program serves to aid 
been set for the legislative branch than for those in 
I find nothing "special" in ac­are honors students. That is those students who find the the executive. This is not fair. Jim Wright is currently 
celerated courses geared simply patently untrue. I basic classes at Notre Dame second in line to the office of the presidency. Should 
towards accelerated students earned every single one of my not challenging enough, or not unwilling to settle for "suffi­grades with my own abilities, in the way that they want to be
not the same standards apply to him and other mem­
cient rigor and quality" in their just like everyone else, and challenged. It is not a denial of
bers of Congress as apply to members of the execu­
acacemic career. Not everyone resent the implication that they opportunity, but the giving of
tive? 
considers the bare minimum to were handed to me on a silver opportunity which allows us to be enough; the Honors Pro­platter. The program is not de­make the most of our potential. Even if some of the allegations are not proven, 
gram is geared towards such signed to make our academic That's all there is to it, and any individuals. As for reasonably life a cakewalk; it is designed attempt to find a hidden elitist 
Wright should resign. The scandal enveloping him 
small freshman classes, con­to challenge us academically agenda is ludicrous, though we
has weakened the power of the institution of the 
sider the physics students who and it does so to the fullest ex­are interested as to how he
House, the office of the speakership and the Demo­
have to meet in Stepan Center. tent possible. I happen to have managed to find out about the 
cratic Party. The most powerful Democrat in the 
The allegations of con­gotten a D in physics last se­secret handshake. United States cannot and should not be enveloped in 
spiratorial secrecy surround­mester. That doesn't sound like a cloud of scandal. 

ing the program are ridiculous. grade inflation to me. The ac­Ron Hogan I have never been a part of any cusation of ethical misconduct Holy Cross Hall private, closed-door meeting on Professor Solomon's part April13, 1989 

DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'There is no duty we so 
much underrate, as the duty 
of being happy.' 
Robert Louis Stevenson 
Accent
Wednesday, April 19, 1989 page 9 

Addressing the troubles of the Americas 
they would vote on various resolu­tions proposed by other "countries." 
Model OAS 
Once again there were caucus and conference puts committee meetings and then dinner. Early in the convention week, students in Notre Dame "set a reputation for being easy to get along with andcenter of Latin knowing what we were doing," accor­ding to Matt Crowley. American For entertainment, both formal and informal parties were held each 
debates 
night. "The Grandfather Clause made life a lot more fun for us," he contin­ued. 
A
JANICE O'LEARY Crowl~y, a junior, was elected pres­accent writer ident of next year's model OAS. The campaigning started on the Wednes­fter a "grueling 17 hour bus trip" day of the trip and he needed the seven Notre Dame students ar­signatures of 5 other delegates to rived in Washington D.C. for a model support his nomination. The election Organization of American States went through four run-offs before convention. The OAS is an organiza­Matt finally prevailed. tion similar the the United Nations He founded the OAS group at Notre but more regionally focused. Dame in 1988. The University has 
The students posed as delegates, been sending students, who are selec­representing Argentina for one week, Islands to drug problems. The Fourth Committee of Adminis­ted through Latin American Studies, from April 2-7. Those who went in­The General Committee discussed trative and Budgetary matters dis­to the convention for several years, cluded Matt Crowley, Karen Julka, such topics as proposals for resolving cussed the financial situation of the but Matt felt that a more formally Adeline Cassin, Tore Steen, Peter the Central American Crisis and the OAS. planned and more thoroughly Tarsney, Margaret Branick and Mike question of the Malvinas Islands. The Each day began with a breakfast prepared group should attend the Faehner. First Committee, which encompassed gathering, and then at 9 a.m. the model OAS in Washington. 
Notre Dame was .one of 32 schools juridicial and political matters, dis­formal meetings took place. During which participated in this year's cussed matters of the creation of an these formal meetings, the represen­For the future, the group is looking model OAS. The schools represented inter-American system for nature · tatives of each country presented towards a North American model countries from the Caribbean, South conservation, and the American Con­their proposals to the five commit­United Nations in Toronto. Crowley America, and Latin America. The vention on Human Rights on the tees. remarked that Auburn and Emory delegates held all their meetings in Abolition of the Death Penalty. Before the students broke for lunch Universities have extended invita­the actual OAS building, and mem­The Second Committee of Economic they held caucus sessions, during tions to Notre Dame to compete. bers of the OAS itself ran the sepa­and Social matters touched on sub­which people in each committee Margaret Branick, one of the Notre rate committees. jects such as the U.S. trade policy . would try to gain support for their Dame delegates on the Educational 
The participants split up into differ­regarding Latin America and the proposals in one-on-one confronta­Scientific, and Cultural Committee ent committees for the week--Politi­Caribbean. The Educational, Scien­tions. Also, in the event of a said, "I would recommend the experi­cal, Economic, Education and Scien­tific, and Cultural Matters commit­stalemate, or if debate became too ence especially for students inter­tific, Budget and also a General tee, the Third committee, tried to heated, the delegates would break ested in international relations or Committee that addressed more im­develop strategies regarding women into caucus groups in order to government and South American portant issues, from the Falkland in politics. redefine their positions. Afterwards affairs." 
Preserving the integrity of journalism 
rected for almost two years, it has been fashionable to rely
Robert Maynard's efforts have 
trains minorities for careers on unnamed sources. As a in journalism. result, the credibility of the
brought greater minority involvement Maynard explains, "I institution of journalism has realized that out of the 40,000 been greatly eroded. We have
and higher standards to journalism 
jobs in the newspaper profes­begun to lose the confidence sion less than seven-tenths of of the public." one percent were filled by Maynard cites other impor­
SARAH VOIGT remember. people of color. I felt that tant changes that have oc­
T 
accent writer "Journalism has been a something needed to be done curred in journalism since he lifetime love affair with me. to increase this number. We has been involved in the field. hroughout his ascent from Even when I was a child of needed to introduce the con­"Now it is much more driven a reporter on a small six or eight I would tell cept of recruiting and train­by technology. When I began, weekly newspaper to his cur­stories at the dinner table. ing minorities for jobs." everything was much, much rent position as a nationally My love of writing has contin­slower, strictly black and syndicated columnist, Robert ued to blossom into a lifetime Maynard's mission for the white, and more labor inten­Maynard has never lost his vocation.'' Institute was to end "many sive." concern for the credibility editors' constant refrain that Now journalism has entered and future of the field of jour­As Maynard grew older and there are no qualified a high speed, high tech envi­
nalism. was exposed to more and ronment. It has been a
. minority journalists. We more aspects of the field, he opened up our doors (of the change for the better as farMaynard, the editor and discovered an alarming scar­Institute) saying, 'it's not true as information being able topresident of The Tribune in city of minority reporters. In what the editors are saying.' be delivered more quickly."

Oakland, California, delivered an attempt to remedy this We have tried to stimulate Nevertheless, Maynard the annual Red Smith Lecture problem, Maynard founded the hiring of minorities." realizes that this massive in­last night at Notre Dame. the Institute for Journalism flux of information available 
Maynard has loved jour­Education in 1977. The In­The Institute involves an to the public today can also nalism for as long as he can stitute, which Maynard di­eleven week "boot camp" cause serious problems. He that gives its students an in­elaborates, "In a sense our tense training in the basics of values have been deadened. 
BUZZ MC FLATTOP MICHAEL F. MULDOON 
journalism. After this session Now there is so much concern 
with scandal and minutia that graduates to small I wonder if people feel the newspapers. need to read sensationalism 
just to keep their interest." 
What is the most important Despite Maynard's busy basic rule that the Institute schedule, he still finds the can impart to its students? time to write a bi-weekly
Maynard believes that the column. "I enjoy the fact that most challenging and crucial in spite of being deeply in­role of journalism is simple: volved in the operation of a 
"to always name sources and large business, I can still find to get the truth." the opportunity to express my Maynard continues, "Ever views on the news on a regu­since the Watergate scandal lar basis." 

.._ page 10 The Observer Wednesday, April 19, 1989 
Rice~ shines in his return to spring football drills 
By STEVE MIEGARGEE Associate Sports Editor 
After missing two practices in a row, junior quarterback Tony Rice returned to action with a vengeance in Tuesday's scrimmage at the Loftus Cen­ter. 
Rice went 10-of-19 for 143 passing yards on the day, in­cluding an 18-yard touchdown completion to Ricky Watters. He had been absent from the last two practices in order to concentrate on academics. 
The scrimmage, originally scheduled for the stadium, moved indoors because of the rain and snow that fell earlier 
in the day. 

"The groundskeeper said the 
field wasn't in good shape," -said Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz. "I get scared coming in­side because of injuries, but we 
came out of it okay." 

Notre Dame's first two 
games of the season-against 
Virginia in the Meadowlands 
and at Michigan -both come on 
astroturf. 

Watters and ·freshman 
Kenny Spears led the Irish 
rushing attack with identical 
figures of 24 yards on four 
carries. Watters also caught 
four passes for 73 yards. 

Sophomore tight end Frank 
Jacobs caught five passes for_ 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Bll!le-Gold Game will be held Saturday, April 22, at 1:30 p.m. in the stadium. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be admitted upon presentation of an ID card at gates 15 and 16. Spouses and children must have a ticket. General admission tickets for the public are available from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Saturday at gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. Adult tickets are $3 in advance and $4 game day. Youth tickets are $1.50 in advance and $2 the day of the game. -The Observer 
The Bengal Bouts Banquet will be held for all boxers tonight at 5:30p.m., at Z-B Falcons Club at Western and Sheridan. Note the change of location. Call Mike at x3386 for more information. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball is looking for referees to start on Monday, April24. The pay has increased to $8 per game. Call Jeff at x1504 for more information. -The Observer 
The Ro,wing Club will have a meeting Thursday, April20, at 7:30p.m. in 343 Nieuwland to pay for Madison. 
-The Observer 
The Me,n's Volleyball Club will sponsor a Draw Quads Volleyball Tournament as a fundraiser. The entry fee is $4. Players will be assigned to one of four positions and put on teams by a blind draw. Play will begin at 7 p.m. tonight on the courts in the ice rink of the Joyce ACC. Call Mike at xHI86 or Jim at x1844 for more information. -The Observer On the defensive end, lineman, injured his knee47 yards, while freshman linebacker Michael Smalls in­during spring practices. 
flanker Raghib "Rocket" Is­

tercepted a Kent Graham pass 
mail had two catches for 41 and defensive back Greg Davis EXTRA POINTS: Rice will

yards. Derek Brown and Pat forced and recovered a fumble. play in the Blue-Gold Game. HeEilers also finished with two This marked the last regular will quarterback the Blue team receptions, and Ryan Mihalko scrimmage of spring practices. for one quarter and the Goldcaught one pass for 41 yards. 

The Blue-Gold Game at 1: 30 team for another Saturday afternoon officially quarter...Billy Hackett and SPRING • ends spring workouts. Jim Sexton will handle the kick­FOOTBALL "I feel we made a lot of prog­ing and punting chores, respec­ress," Holtz said fn evaluating tively, for both teams in Satur­PRACTICE this spring. "There were areas day's intrasquad that we could have progressed skirmish...Holtz is bringing in 
"We wanted to give a lot of further, but we've come a long two local figures to coach the kids a chance to play," Holtz way. Our defensive line and of­Blue and Gold teams Saturday. said of the scrimmage. "We fensive line stayed healthy with Area businessman Jay Jordan wanted to give Tony some work the exception of (Bryan) Flan­and WNDU-TV sports anchor and start putting a team to­nery." Jeff Jeffers will be calling the gether.'' Flannery, a defensive plays. 
Expos big day at plate routs Cubs 
MONTREAL--Tim Wallach and Nelson San­Braves 5, Astros 4 tovenia doubled home runs in a six-run first ATLANTA--Tommy Gregg's fifth hit of the inning as the Montreal Expos routed the game, a single with one out in the nth inning,Chicago Cubs 11-2 Tuesday night. scored Lonnie Smith and gave the Atlanta 
Ten Expos went to the plate in the inning as Braves a 5-4 victory over the Houston Astros the Expos quickly knocked out Paul Kilgus, 1-2. Tuesday night. The big inning provided all Bryn Smith, 1-0, Gregg had two doubles, three singles and a 
would require to earn the victory. Smith, walk. It was the first time Gregg has had as making his second start of the season, allowed many as four hits in a game and was the first seven hits, striking out three and walking none five-hit game for a Brave since June 27, 1988, before being replaced by Gene Harris to start when Andres Thomas did it against San Fran­the eighth inning. cisco. 
Joe Boever, 1-0, got the win with 2 2-3 innings
Pirates 4, Cardinals 3 

of shutout relief. Dave Smith, 0-2, was the loser 
ST. LOUIS--Shortstop Ozzie Smith flubbed after giving up a double to Smith and Gregg's a ground ball for a rare error that allowed Pit­winning hit. tsburgh to score two runs in the ninth inning, 
Rangers 6, Brewers 2
giving the Pirates a 4-3 victory over the St. Louis Cardinals Tuesday night. ARLINGTON--Cecil Espy had four hits, stole 
R.J. reynolds and Jose Lind singled off Todd three bases and scored three times on RBis by Worrell, 0-1. With two outs, Bobby Bonilla hit Rafael Palmeiro as the Texas Rangers beat the a grounder right at Smith. The ball went off Milwaukee Brewers 6-2 Tuesday night behind Smith's glove and Reynolds and Lind came Bobby Witt's four-hit pitching. home. Witt, 2-0, bested Don August, 1-3, who was 
Morris Madden, 1-0, pitched one scoreless in­touched for 10 hits in six innings as the Rangers, ning for his first major league win. Jeff Robin­baseball's hottest team this season, boosted son got his third save by pitching the ninth, their record to 11-2 and snapped Milwaukee's getting Smith for the final out. four-game winning streak. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m_ until 4 p.m. at the Notre Dame offrce, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 unti13 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. Hagg<Jr College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must
Classifieds 
be prEpaid. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
Need a car? FRESHMAN BE A OJ FOR THEODORE'S need ride to Miami of Ohio, weekend of '79 Datsun 21 O,auto.,good condl­FRESHMAN Play with records 4-21 Bill # 1837
I I I
NOTICES FOR RENT 
FRESHMAN Get chickstlon,new battery,$550-Going to Class Government Applications at 2nd Play with a really neat stereoEurope:must sell! Katy # 3490.

TYPING AVAILABLE 
NICE FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO, Floor LaFortune DUE WEDNESDAY!! Earn BIG bucks TFH: THANKS A LOT.._ Saturday will be
................................................................
287-4082 
287-6389, 683-8889-PICK UP AN APPLICATION AT STUD_ fun_ You're the best Love, R 
ACTIVITIES OFFICE 710 REX STREET TICKETS Due Man_ ApL 24 Mephistophelian Mania is in the air
BEWARE CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for SARAH HARRINGTON TURNS 21
CLEAN HOME, 3-5 BEDROOMS, 2 COME TO THE ST-EDWARD'S Need Ride To IU This Weekend For Little 
$$$ GRAD TIX WANTED $$$ TODAYor Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK 
BATHS 89-90 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL CHARITY CARNIVAL!! 500_ Will Share Gas_ Call Jerry At x1697
Call Michelle at 3196 WE LOVE YOU
808 Howard St just off of N_D_ CHUCK GLORE AT 232-1n6. 
THE MUFFINS Sunday, April 23-Noon to 11:00 pm --······························· .......................
Ave,(walking distance from campus) ph_ Great food and lots of games! SUMMER CAMPERS--YOU HAVEN'T 233-2342 
Rooms for rent, $1201no; ALSO 2 BEEN
• • • WANTED-1 grad tix, will pay$$ Call 
Bedroom home for rent on NO Ave LISTEN TO LIVE MUSIC! FORGOTIEN
# 3183 ••• 
Wordprocesslr~g-Typlng 
272-6306 PLAY GREAT GAMES! GOD REMEMBERED US THIS

.....................................................
272-88:!7 
SO CAL CLUB MEMBERS

ONE-WAY TICKET (ON) AIR POR­WIN LOTS OF PRIZES! WEEKEND 
THERE'S STILl A HOUSE AVAILABLE BAGGAGE TRUCK RESERVATIONS HOW HAPPY FOR USI
EAT, EAT, EAT! IN GOOD CC lDITION AND EXCEL­CALL JENNIFER 3496TUGAL NY-LISBON, LISBON·ROME. 
PHIL RYAN, COLUMBA HALL, 239­
RESUMES, reports, l!tc, typed on a LENT LOCAT,JN--SAFE AND CLOSE-­
6284, ALL AT THE ST, ED'S CHARITY ................................ ···············. 
computer_ Calf Sue's Secretarial Ser­
4-5 BEDROOMS, FURNISHED_ 233-CARNIVAL! DAVE STOLPMAN: i want youvice anytime at 299-0063. 
9947 LIFE IS ELSEWHERE
I NEED GRAD TIXI CALL MIKE# 1558 APRIL 23-NOON TO 11:00 PM DON MURPHY: remember, guys with EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 
APT_ 2 PEOPLE GOOD NEIGHBOR­Tonight and Tomorrow at AT STEPAN CENTER strange knives turn-me on___ MRS, COKER, 233-7009. 
HOOD 288-0955289-2331 Mu~~hy's (formerly Chip's) Notre A woman's
································································ PERSONALS Spring at Dame___
HOLY CROSS PRIESTS & BROTHERS 
The best Acoustic Rock thoughts turn to men, A man's thoughts
VOCATION COUNSELING for the ONE­WANTED: TUBA PLAYER and-Or DJ
Neil Young to REM bob dylan to Tracy tum to basketball YEAR CANDIDATE PROGRAM and 
WANTED It's hump day, GET it Mike? Chapman Cat Stevens to 10,000 Apply at Stud. Activities Office 
othar ministry opportunities_ Contact: FR by Mon. Apr. 24
Maniacs So, Trace, how many personals todayJOHN CONLEY, CSC BOX 541 NOTRE 
ACT IN TV COMMERCIALS. NO EXPE­life is elsewhere 1 0? 12? Well nerd. at least you can finally
j;j'~ii""""'"""'"'"""'""""""'""'""'"''"
DAME 239-6385 RIENCE. ALL AGES. CHILDREN, say you got one_ Have a great birthday TEENS, YOUNG ADULTS, FAMILIES, and remember-we're not leavin' till we're
MARY ELIZABETH POHS Pray to St Jude sciiP·_-_-_--_--;:;;~-w~;;j-~i-ih~-F~~~-;~iii'u~ To my favorite parrot-headette Con­
ETC. HIGH PAY TV ADVERTISING. heavin'!! 
itNOWII .......................................... gratulations on graduation-Can't wait to
································································ CALL FOR CASTING INFORMATION. Love always, CHARM STUDIOS, (313) 542-8400 EXT, The gymnast from PW
SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $279 have you back where you belong-in
------------------sii-.A"M'ER--:;oas---·-------·--·--· each way on discounted scheduled Colorado! Love you Bud in Fort Fun, Beth 
2283. ALL LANDWATER SPORTS 
airlines to Europe from Chicago_ Call Ellen p_s_ Parrot heads forever' (BOO) 325-2222.
GOVERNMENT JOBS! PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS HEY, CASEY-HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! WE LOST: GOLD ROPE NECKLACE ON NOW HIRING THIS AREA! $10,213 TO ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS LOVE YOU! LOVE, YOUR "ROOMIES"
"LF5" TO THE SENIOR-TO-BE GIRLS FRL 4/7_ IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL $75,473, IMMEDIATE OPENINGS! NEAR LAKE PLACID 
RACHEL--enjoyed flirting with you at WHO PICKED AM 434 LEMANSII"If4" Friday's SYR--BORN DANCER We are selling the blue carpet and the
X1326-CALL (REFUNDABLE) 1-315-733-6062 CALL 1-&0D-343-8373. Trace-Your're such a special friend to us, EXT F-2382H. on your birthday we want to say "those
couch sections in our room. Please come 
SCHMO(L NO, NO ONE FORGOT to see them and we will offer good prices­
LOST SUNDAY 416: BROWN LEAT­three little words" to you: "FIRE 'EM
i·~;~d·~·;;d;·i~·iul~;·;:iiii~·saa·;;;;;.;~~;;~ YOUR 20TH BIRTHDAY_ SORRY THIS Carry on the tradition--the room wouldn't EITHER AT STEPAN CTR. STEPAN 4418 OR 847 PE SLOAN_ Can leave anytime, will pay for gas_ 
HER CASE WI READING GLASSES, NEED ROOMMATE FOR SUMMER UP!!!!!" Love, Colee Patroli & Cuh-hill 
IS LATE YOU KNOW YOUR 2SOUTH be the same without them I! 
SCAPPY BUDDIES LOVE YA

COURTS OR SOUTH DINING HALL I Please call Kathleen at # 2666_ LOST 
CANNOT READ ANYMORE ! HELPIII HELP! Ride needed to Cleveland on 41.17 ANYWAYIIII HAPPY BIRTHDAY AND No matter what you look like, GREEK BOOKS AND NOTES IN AHAVE A GREAT YEAR! No maffer what you do
PLEASE CALL CHRIS AT X4079 IF or 4-28-Will help with expenses, Call Kara THANK YOU ST_ JUDE PURPLE WOVEN STRAW BAG. IF 
GOD LOVES YOU
FOUND-at 272-2363-FOUND, PLEASE CALL MAURA AT 
·-·-·-··············· ................................. He really loves you, 
1759. I REALLY NEED MY NOTES, DO YOU HAVE A BLUE & WHITE WIL­WANTED: FEMALE NON SMOKER TO Try out lor Little League next sea­GOD LOVES YOUIII
THE FAMILY OF JOELLA SUE YOUNG WISHES TO THANK EVERYONE FOR

SON GOLF UMBRELLA? IF YOU SHARE RESIDENCE, PRIVATE ROOM­ason. Maybe you'll get to play.-TO MY STALLION OF MANLINESS: -1 
THI!iR SUPPORT IN OUR TIME OF BETWEEN 9:15 MID 10:45 ON NOTRE DAME 234-6294, CUT THE ROSE BEFORE IT GROWS NEED, Ride needed to Cols,. OH. leaving p,m, ABLE DESIRE. SHALL I SEE YOU THURSDAY, PLEASE RETURN IT TO ApL 28, returning Apr_ 30 Pat x2036 TONIGHT? LOVE, YOUR LUSTFUL 
PICKED IT UP FROM NIEWLAND 127 DEPOSIT $150_ 10 MIN_ DRIVE TO ................................................................ AM OVERCOME WITH UNQUENCH­
······················································ 
TO THE CAST AND CREW OF "THE

ITS OWNER X4927 PLEASE DOVE_
sMc FR-ESHMAN---L:ooi<---Fofi---r-HE POWER AND THE GLORY"-___ he won't eat it
FOR SALE CHANGES,CHANGES,THE LONG he hates everything ___ CALL 4328 TO IDENTIJFY_ GAMEf!OOM!I 
FOUND: ONE SET OF DORM KEYS. FRESH_ FORMAL PICTURES IN THE 
SUCCESSION OF CHANGES ARE LIFE IS ELSEWHERE MURPHY'S ON APRIL 23 AT STEPAN FLY HOME TO CT-1 way after !>'12 Ilk> 
OVER! I'LL "PROP" YOU GUYS UP WED & THURS NOON TO 11:00 PM 
ANYTIME! LOVE, CHRISTINA YOU'LL HAVE A GREAT TIME! LIGHT PURPLE WOVE:N STRAW BAG Live R&R Wed 19 at Bridget's ·················································· CONTAINS GREEK DICTIONARY, FOR SALE: 1988 TREK Elance 33()1'f 2 10-12:30 Anyone headed to the Milwaukee area 
LOST before 41.19-Kevin Q 271-9311 DEADHORSE 
DOMER: Will you go out with me? BEST OF ALL, IT'S FOR 
GRAMMAR BOOK, AND NOTES IF speed bike_ Many aces-Like new $250 Rock w' the HORSE DOMETIE: When it snows in April! this weekend (41.11-41.13) that can take a CHARITY!! FOUND, CALL MAURA, 1759. call 282-1 032 
DOMER: Alii right!!!! rider? Will share the usuaL Chris # 2923 
,............................,;................................. 


-----~ ----------~~~-----~ ~----~--------------­
Sports Wednesday 
Wednesday, April 19, 1989 
II •1 Ill 


Chicago Philadelphia Montreal St. louis Pittsburgh New York  National Laague East w l 8 4 7 5 8 6 5 5 4 8 4 8 West  Pet. .667 .583 .571 .500 .333 .333  GB 1 2 4 4  Patrick Division  
San Francisco Cincinnati Atlanta San Diego Los Angeles Houston  9 4 8 4 7 7 6 8 5 8 5 9  .692 .667 .500 .429 .385 .357  .5 2.5 3.5 4 4.5  

Tuesday's Results Montreal 11 , Chicago 2 Philadelphia 7, New York 1 Atlanta 5, Houston 4 (11 inn.) Pittsburgh at St. Louis (late) Cincinnati at Los Angeles (late) San Diego at San Francisco (late)  
Milwaukee Baltimore Cleveland Boston Toronto  American League East w l 6 5 5 6 5 6 5 6 6 8  Pet. .545 .455 .455 .455 .429  GB 1 1.5  

New York  5  8  .385  2  
Detroit  2  8  .200  3.5  
West  
Texas  10  2  .833  
Minnesota  7  4  .636  2.5  
Kansas City  7  5  .583  3  
California  8  6  ~571  3  
Oakland  8  6  .571  3  
Chicago  6  7  .462  4.5  
Seattle  5  8  .385  5.5  

Tuesday's Results New York 2, Toronto 0 Minnesota 9, Detroit 8 Boston at Cleveland, ppd. rain California at Chicago, ppd. cold Kansas City at Baltimore (late) Milwaukee at Texas (late) Oakland at Seattle (late) 
Scoreboard 
Baseball (27·7) Notre Dame 5. Illinois-Chicago 0 Notre Dame 6, Illinois-Chicago 3 Notre Dame 5, Butler 1 Notre Dame 11, Butler 6 Notre Dame 6, Dayton 5 Notre Dame 13, Dayton 4 Dayton 7, Notre Dame 3 Notre Dame 22, Dayton 9 
Lacrosse (7-3) Notre Dame 8, Denison 5 Notre Dame 14, Lake Forest 1 
Softball (19-14) Notre Dame 10, Saint Mary's 0 Notre Dame 4, Saint Mary's 2 Notre Dame 15, Bethel 1 0 Notre Dame 13, Bethel 2 Valparaiso 1, Notre Dame 0 Notre Dame 4, Valparaiso 3 
Men's golf Notre Dame placed eighth out of a 22-team field at the Kepler Intercollegiate with a score of 939 for the 54-hole tournament. 
Women's golf Notre Dame finished seventh out of nine teams at the Lady Buckeye Spring Invitational with a 1017 mark for the 54-hole tournament. 
Men's track Notre Dame took part in a non-scoring meet at Stanford. 
Women's track Notre Dame participated in non-scoring meets at Stanford and Hillsdale College. 
Men's tennis Notre Dame won the Midwestern Collegiate Conference championship in St. Louis. 
Women's tennis (15-4) Notre Dame 6, Michigan 3 
HOMERUN! 
Name: Mark Hoidas Occupation: Engineer 
On His New Look .. :'When Ifirst heard 
about Fiesta's makeouer contest, I 
thought it would be fun. Oh sure, mv 
friends h{ll'e been giuing me a hard­
time, hut let's get serious . .. u•hen 
you're try•ing to get to first base, who 
cares what they think.'" No appointment-just walk in' 
~iesta 
) y-. Hair & Tcmi1g Sdon 
l>i!ll·nver ynur nt"'' look ~l ;m affnnl;lhlt· !'riet·l 
'Buyers Marketplace Outlet Mall 590I Grape Rd. 272-4036 Open Daily 8-8, SaL 8-6, Sun 12-5 LaSalle Square 937 Bendix 237-9049 Open Daily 8-8, Sat 8-6 Sun 10-5 
Hartford  
Montreal  
Buffalo  
Boston  

 


L.A. Clippers 20 59 
NHL Playoffs 
Campbell Conference  Wales Conference  
Norris Division  Smythe Division  Patrick Division  
Chicago vs. St. Louis  Celgary vs. los Angeles  Pittsburgh vs. Philadelphia 
Chicago leads -les 1-0 Game 1 : Chicago 3, St. Louis 1  Game 1: Los Angeles at Calgary (late) Thursday: Los Angeles at Calgary  Pittsburgh leads aeriles 1-0 Game 1: Pittsburgh 4, Philadelphia 3  
Thursday: Chicago at St. Louis Saturday: St. Louis at Chicago April 24: St. Louis at Chicago x-April 26: Chicago at St. Louis x-April 28: St. Louis at Chicago  Saturday: Calgary at Los Angeles April 24: St. Louis at Chicago x-April 26: Los Angeles at Calgary x-April 28: Calgary at Los Angeles x-April 30: Los Angeles at Calgary  Wednesday: Philadelphia at Pittsburgh Friday: Pittsburgh at Philadelphia Sunday: Pittsburgh at Philadelphia x-April 25: Philadlillphia at Pittsburgh x-April 27: Pittsburgh at Philadelphia 
x-April 30: Chicago at St. Louis  x-April 29: Philadelphia at Pittsburgh  

Sports Calendar 
Home games in CAPS 
Wednesday Baseball vs. NORTHWESTERN, 4 p.m. Softball at Southwestern Michigan College SMC softball vs. NAZARETH COLLEGE, 3 p.m. 
Thursday SMC tennis vs. BUTLER, 3 p.m. 
Friday Women's tennis at Purdue Softball at DePaul Tournament in Chicago SMC softball at IUPUI Invitational 
Saturday Blue-Gold Game, 1 :30 p.m. Baseball vs. DETROIT (2) at Coveleski Stadium, 4 p.m. Lacrosse vs. OHIO WESLEYAN, 1:30 p.m. Men's tennis vs. MICHIGAN STATE, 1 p.m. 
Women's tennis at Indiana Men's track at Indiana lntercollegiates in In­dianapolis 
Men's track at Kansas Relays in Lawrence, Kan. Women's track at Kent State Relays Women's track at Indiana lntercollegiates Men's golf at Spartan Invitational in East Lan­sing, Mich. Softball at DePaul Tournament SMC softball at IUPUI Invitational SMC track in District Meet at Taylor University 
Sunday Baseball vs. DETROIT (2) at Coveleski, 12 p.m. Softball at DePaul Tournament Men's track at Kansas Relays Men's golf at Spartan Invitational 
Monday Softball at Grace Tuesday Softball at Loyola SMC softball at Tri-State College 
PAUL MITCHELL 

REDI<EN H€~\JS 
x-if necessary lhis season's records, total points and previous week rankings. Notre Dame opponents are italicized. 

Irish Baseball 
Through Monday 

BATTER  GP  AB R  H  28  
Dan PeHier, OF  34  128 38  57  15  
James Sass, OF  34  107 24  41  4  
Jason Martinez, DH  18  32 8  12  4  
Jon Baker  5  3 0  1  0  
Pat Pesavento, SS  34  118 48  37  4  
Joe Binkiewicz, 1 B  32  87 16  26  9  
Ed Lund, C  32  102 24  30  6  
Mike Rotkis, DH  17  24 3  7  1  
Paul Lange, DH  9  7 4  2  0  
Mike Moshier, 2B  33  86 13  23  1  
Frank Jacobs, DH  27  75 14  20  3  
Craig Counsell, OF  29  n 21  20  3  
Mike Coss, 3B  30  83 17  21  2  
Pat Eilers, OF  30  53 10  12  3  
Cory Mee, 2B  20  29 8  6  0  
Matt Krall, DH  12  11 1  1  0  
Tom Allen, OF  16  13 3  1  0  
Tom Murray  7  2 2  0  0  
Mike Rooney  7  2 3  0  0  
NOTRE DAME  34  1039 257  317  55  
OPPONENTS  34  993 144  272  53  

Left on base: Notre Dame 262, Opponents 229 
PITCHER GP GS IP H BB David Legus 1 1 2.0 1 1 Joe Binkiewicz 5 0 6.3 10 3 Brian Piotrowicz 11 10 57.0 55 24 Tony Livorsi 14 1 26.7 27 8 Mike Passilla 8 7 30.3 29 8 Erik Madsen 11 9 55.7 61 17 Mike Coffey 17 0 36.7 36 18 Brian Conway 7 5 29.3 27 15 Tom Gulka 5 0 8.0 13 4 Dan Marzec 3 1 9.0 13 5 
NOTRE DAME 34 34 261.0 272 103 OPPONENTS 34 34 2264.3317. 202 
Saves: Notre Dame 8 (Coffey 6, Gulka, Livorsi), Opponents 1 


Eastern Conference Atlantic Division 
w  l  
x-New York  50  30  
y-Philadelphia  44  35  
Boston  41  38  
Washington  39  40  
New Jersey  26  54  
Charlotte  20  60  
Central Divi sion  
y-Detroit  60  19  
y-Cieveland  56  24  
y-Atlanta  49  29  
y-Milwaukee  48  31  
y-Chicago  46  33  
Indiana  26  52  
We stern Conference  
Midwest Div ision  
w  l  
x-Utah  50  29  
y-Houston  43  36  
y-Denver  42  36  
Dallas  36  44  
San Antonio  21  58  
Miami  14  66  
Pacmc Division  
y-L.A. Lakers  53  25  

y-Phoenix  53  26  
y-Seattle  44  34  
y-Golden State  43  36  
Portland  38  40  
Sacramento  25  53  

x-clinched divison tiHe y-clinched playoff berth Tuesday's Results Washington 121, Boston 113
Adams Division 

Charlotte 121, New Jersey 105
Boston vs. llontreel 

Philadelphia 124, Milwaukee 102 
Montreal leads aeriles 1-0 

Dallas 103, Miami 99 
Game 1: Montreal 3, Boston 2 

Detroit 118, Cleveland 102 
Wednesday: Boston at Montreal 
Friday: Montreal at Boston Sunday: Montreal at Boston 

College Baseball x-April 25: Boston at Montreal x-April 27: Montreal at Boston 
Top 25 College Beeeball Teams x-April 29: Boston at Montreal 
The top 25 college baseball teams in the Baseball America poll, with first-place votes in parentheses, 
1. Texas A&M 42-2 1 2. Mississippi State 30-7 2 3. Arizona 33-12 7 4. Arizona State 34-12 3
3B HR RBI BA 

5. Wichita State 38-7 5
1 6 41 .445 

6. Florida 32-11 6 3 2 39 .383 7. LSU 36-7 4 
0 
1 8 .375 B. Florida State 36-11 10 

0 
0 0 .333 9. Arkansas 37-5 11 0 0 10 .314 


10. Texas 37-12 9 
11. Long Beach State 35-8 13 12. Clemson 33-5-8
0 1 24 .299 

13. Fresno State 3(}-13 15 
0 4 24 .294 

14. Miami 28-12 16 
0 0 1 .292 15. South Aorida 34-11 18 
0 0 3 .286 16. Oklahoma State 30-10 12 0 0 15 . 267 17 . Southern Cal 32-18 14 
18. San Jose State 33-9 17 19. UNLV 27-10 22
1 2 17 .267 

20. Michigan 28-8 24
0 0 17 .260 

21. Oral Roberts 32-13 
0 0 8 .253 

22. Illinois 27-7 20 
0 
0 7 .226 23. Notre Dame 27-7 

0 
0 1 .207 24. Brigham Young 30-10 

25. Central Florida 32-13 

0 
0 2 .091 Top 25 College Baseball 0 0 2 .on. 


The top 25 college baseball teams in the Col­legiate Baseba/IIESPN poll, with first-place votes in
0 0 1 .000 

parentheses, this season's records, total points and 
0 0 0 .000 

previous week rankings. Notre Dame opponents are 
italicized. 

5 16 225 .305 8 11 126 .274 1. Texas A&M 42-2 497 1 2. Mississippi State 30-7 493 2 
3. Arkansas 37-5 490 5 4. Arizona 33-12 489 11 5. Arizona State 34-12 486 4 6. LSU 36-7 478 3 
so ER W-L ERA 

7. Fresno State 30-13 474 12 0 0 o-o 0.00 B~ Wichita State 38-7 471 6 3 1 1-0 1.42 9. Clemson 33-5 466 7 
43 13 5·3 2.05 10. Texas 37-12 462 10 16 9 2-0 3.04 
11. Florida 32-11 459 8 
12. Florida State 36-11 455 13
11 13 4-1 3.86 

13. Oklahoma State 30-10 454 9
39 24 6-2 3.88 

14. Miami 28-12 450 14 
32 16 5-0 3.93 

15. Long Beach State 35-8 44615 14 14 3-1 4.30 16. Brigham Young 35-10 438 18 
3 6 0-0 6.75 17. San Jose State 33-9 437 17 6 
7 1-0 7.00 18. Pepperdine 28-13 432 19 19. South Aorida 34-11 426 20 20. Michigan 28-8 425 22
167 103 27-7 3.55 

21. Southern Cal 32-18 421 16
158 211 7-27 7.18 

22. UNLV 29-11 417 16 23. Oklahoma 28-9 416 23 24. Notre Dame 27-7 409 27 25. Loyola Marymount 26-18 408 
Pet. GB .625 .557 5.5 .519 8.5 .494 10.5 .325 24 .250 30 
.759 .700 4.5 .628 10.5 .608 12 .582 14 .333 33.5 
Pet. GB 
.633 .544 7 .538 7.5 .450 14.5 .266 29 ~175 36.5 
.679 .671 .5 .564 9 .544 10.5 .487 15 .321 28 .253 33.5 


--~-----~---~-----.
-~~------------­
Wednesday, April 19, 1989

page 12 The Observer 
Elster ties record for consecutive errorless games 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK --Kevin 
Elster of the New York Mets 
played his 72nd consecutive 
game without an error at 
shortstop Tuesday night, 
tying the major league 
record. 
Elster matehed the mark 
set by Detroit's Eddie 
Brinkman in 1972. Elster 
handled eight chances with­
out a mistake in the Mets' 
7-1 loss to Philadelphia. 
His streak started last 
year, his rookie season. He 
can set the record Wednes­
day night against the 
Phillies. 
"I'm happy I tied it. I'll be 
happier tomorrow night," he 
said. "After I get 73, I won't 
have to worry about it as 
much." 
"Five or six games into 
the season, I knew I had a 
streak," he said. "I'm 
aware of it, especially 
tonight. When you're down 
six or seven runs, there's not 
much else to think about." 
Elster's final two chances 
Tuesday night came on 
grounders that stayed down. 
"The last two hugged the 
ground. It's not the best in­
field, especially after nine 
innings," he said. "I just told 
myself to try not to do some­
thing stupid." 
Elster has handled 234 
chances during his streak. 
Brinkman made 331 con­
secutive plays without an er­
ror. 
Sparky's 
continued from page 16 
vided the prolific scoring with 10 points and Kathy Zack owned the boards for The Vixens, as she ripped down 14 rebounds. 
The forfeit craze continued Tuesday, as three more teams tallied victories on no-shows. 
Revenge of Beefers Chicks and Supreme Court both ad­vanced by merely showing up to play and One Girl With Ex­perience won its game after its opponent, Playmates Reunited, had to forfeit due to injury. 
The Hungry Wombats, who 
Irish softball splits pair with Illinois-Chicago 
team effort." 
Captain Barb Mooney started the second game for Notre Dame and pitched effec­tively until the bottom of the sixth when she allowed a single, a walk and a wild pitch before being replaced by Linn. The first batter Linn faced hit a home run to drive in all of UIC's runs in a 3-0 victory. 

of Illinois-Chicago and  came  
away  with  a  split  of  a  
doubleheader.  

Rachel Crossen fell as she chased the home run, twisting her ankle. Boulac said that she will probably be ready to return to action this weekend for the DePaul Tournament. 
The Irish had only two hits in the second game, and never managed to get a run across the plate. But Boulac said the afternoon's games were suc­cessful. 
"Anytime we play an estab­lished Division I program and play as well and as tough as we did, you have to pat them on -the back because it was a good 
effort," Boulac said. 
Boulac pointed out that the defense was in top form, adding that .there were several fine plays made against UIC. 
"We're not hitting the ball right now, especially against UIC, but we're playing very well defensively," he noted. "The kids are playing very well, and we are getting good pitching." 
The Irish will be at home today for a pair of games against Southwest Michigan College, a doubleheader postponed from April 3rd be-
collides with Ryan's Rabble Rousers and Travelling Sleigh­bells takes on The Female Faultos. 
LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Toke o l1fesov1ng Red Cross CPR course.
+American Red Cross 
By MARY GARINO 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame softball tream travelled to Chicago on Monday to take on University 
The Irish, now 20-15, shut out UIC in the first game by a score of 2-0. The game was marked by strong pitching on both sides. Notre Dame's. Missy Linn, a freshman from Allen­town, Pennsylvania, allowed only two hits in extra innings. She was matched by UIC's pitcher until the ninth inning. 
Rachel Crossen and Ruth Kmak were the hitting stars for the Irish. Kmak led off the ninth with a single and ad­vanced to third on successive sacrifices by Laurie Sommer­lad and Megan Fay. Crossen then drove Kmak in with a solid single, and eventually also scored to add an insurance run for the team. 
Linn set down the side in or­der in the bottom of the ninth to secure the Irish victory. 
Kmak fininshed the game with a 2 for 3 line score and a run scored. Crossen was 1 for 4, including the game winning RBI which added another RBI to her team leading total of 14. 
"It was an excellent softball game," stated head coach Brian Boulac. "We played ex­tremely well. Their pitcher gave us a lot of trouble, but we stuck with it. It was a great 
like the Hoosier Lawyers had been scheduled to play Monday but could not due to lack of court space, annihilated Two Shots On Ha, Ha, Ha 21-1 be­hind Lora Morgan's eight points. 
Eight games are on the slate for today. Conscious Party takes on Nods, Three of Marv's Rejects and Two of His Stars will do battle with Just So We Can Tell Our Grandkids, We W anna Score clashes with Five Girls And A Basketball, Secret Service meets We Score Every Ten Minutes, Four Freshman With Lipps tangles with Tony's Tigers, We Got It, Put It Through will try to handle The Hard Liqours, Five Under 5'5" 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 
The Power and the Glory 
by Dennis Cannan and Pierre Bost 


Adapted from the novel by Graham Greene 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
Setting and Lighting designed by Willard Neuert Costumes designed by Richard E. Donnelly 
Washington Hall 
Wednesday, April19-8:10pm Thursday, April 20-8:10pm Friday, April21-8:10pm Saturday, April22-8:10pm Sunday, April23-3:10pm 
Main Floor $6, Balcony $5 *Students/Senior Citizens $4 '(Wed., Thurs., Sun. only) 
Tickets are available at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office Weekdays, 12:15pm to 6pm 
MasterCard/Visa orders call 239-5957 


The Observer I Trey Raymond 

The Notre Dame softball team split a double-header with Illinois-Chicago Monday, to raise its record to 20-15. The Irish now prepare to play a pair of games against Southwestern Michigan College. 
cause of rain. This may prove matchup. Generally they've to be a tough test for the Irish had a good softball program in because SW Michigan played the past," Boulac said. "We competitively earlier in the can't take them lightly." season against one of the top The first game will begin junior college teams in the today at 3:30 on the Notre country, Lake Michigan. Dame softball field next to the 
"This could be a close Eck Pavilion. 
e 

Happy Birthday 
Tracy 

19 down-2 to go! 
Love Cath and Barb 


~··················~~··················~ 
: WONDERing what to do ~ ~ TONIGHT? : 

• 

••• ••• •••• Come See 
: ALICE IN
• 

: WONDERLAND : : doors open 8: OQ!show starts at : : 8: 15 : 
• 

-----·-~--·-----------~----­
___________...,1 
Wednesday, April 19, 1989 The Observer 
page 13 

Cats.. 
continued from page 16 
little bit, he'll start to take on more of a pitching role." 
Binkiewicz is a competitor in the classroom as well, major­ing in Biological Sciences and achieving a 3.33 GPA last se­mester. 
His accolades extend into the musical sphere, as Binkiewicz played an accordion-like in­strument called the concertina ("I hate when people call it the accordion," he quipped) at the freshman baseball team talent show, to the delight of his team­mates. 
"I played some polkas," said Binkiewicz. ''I come from a strong Polish ethnic back­ground, and that's the kind of music I grew up with and listen to." 
All these talents have his co­
ach very high on his future. 
"Joe Binkiewicz brings a spe­cial fiber to this team," said Murphy. "He's a tough kid. It doesn't matter what you play, if you're a tough-minded per­son that loves to be in tight sit­uations, if you have a little abil­ity you can go a long way. I think that toughness is going to come out in the next few years in a leadership type of way." 
Binkiewicz is adjusting well 
to the college game. In his 
senior year in high school, he 
led Wintersville high school to 
a conference championship, 
batting .500. 
"The biggest adjustment as 
a freshman for me has been the pitching," sa!d the freshman first baseman. "You very rarely ever face a pitcher that just throws fastballs. A good college pitcher usually has movement on his fastballs and has a few breaking pitches. 
"You have to become more mature as a hitter, and that's what makes it tougher. Right now I feel pretty comfortable at the plate." 
And feel comfortable he should, as he is hitting .299 with a homerun and 24 RBI. 
His plethora of talents, be it in hitting, pitching, playing first base or playing polkas, should play a big part for the Irish over the next four years. 
"I can't say what my position on the team will be," said Binkiewicz. "Coach Murphy is going to hav€ to evaluate whe­ther I'm going to be more valu­able as a pitcher or as a hitter. If it's possible to do both, then that would be all right." 
ABOUT NORTH-WESTERN: 
The Wildcats are currently 13­20-2, 5-7 in the Big 10 confer­ence, after being swept in a double-header against Michigan State on Sunday. Paul Stevens, the head coach, coaclhed the team to a 28-28 record last year. "I know that Northwestern athletics has one thing to be proud of for sure and that's their baseball pro­gram," said Murphy. They've had a very strong program for the last 10 or 12 years and I know Paul (Stevens) will have them ready for us." 
Notre Dame is currently suf­fering from many injuries. 

Bookstore tourney continues 
Bookstore Tournament 
Tuesday's Results 
Stepan 1 4:00-Clockwork orange over Stinky Pinkys by 10 4:45-Maureeen McFadden is a fabulous babe over Maui Wowie by 13 · 5:30-Love handles over the Plumbers by 12 6:15-Get off our tips over Boob Leffler and the Shamokin heat by 11 
Stepan 2 4:00-Lenny's American grill over Scumbags by 6 4:45-Asmodeus and the clam-eaters over 4 guys who like girls ... by 5 5:30-Medicine in motion and ... over Clueless IV: the final chapter by 12 6:15-Supreme darks over 1 Jim bob daddy otis and 4 other Jim bob...by 8 
Stepan 3 4:00-Malicious prostitution over 5 guys who can't score inside by 17 4:45-The Masters:disciples of the death ball over Phil the man ... by 2 5:30-The 2nd book of Maccabees over Pontius Pilate's nail drivin' fire by 4 6:15-Teetles and the 4 rips over Ocean Matron by 
9 

Stepan 4 4:00-The !elias over Star's studs by 14 4:45-Air Bord~n and the Milkmen over Freak by 10 5:30-The violaters over Fightin' Iris by 17 6:15-The Cotton Club over Scooter McCully's hum­dog sandwich ... by 13 
Stepan 5 4:00-4 men and a red-headed stepchild over Bumblebees II by 6 4:45-WNDU over BV deviants by 14 5:30-Duke and the dongs over Quayle, Phelps, and 3 others...by 7 6:15-A really bad cough over Spud Webb and 4 other short guys ... by 11 
Stepan 6 4:00-Flipper and the undertows II over the kids from the gritty streets by 4 4:45-Nasty Norm and the gnashing ... over Digger and guys who've slept... by 5 5:30-Jell and 4 skins over Corrines by 14 6:15-Adworl<'s All-Stars over 3 engaged guys and 2 not... by 17 
Bookstore 9 
4:00-Fugitive guys finale over Digger Phelps & 4 guys who can't win ... by 9 4:45-Air Satan & the disciples ... over Red Snapper by 2 5:30-4 lung cookies and a chocolate...over 1 stag and 4 stallions by 12 6:15-Chestnut Mousse Lightning over Stanford "A" by 13 
Bookstore 10 4:00-Sly and the family store over Boink by 16 4:45-Train and the fuzz busters over Only girls can beat us by2 
~:30-Hoopsters from hell over 5 Hodgemasters by 
6:15­
Lyons 11 
4:00-Corporate raiders over Pink Steel by 13 4:45-The Kenic Sarants over Stoney and the Friday night wrecking crew by 7 5:30-The dream machine over Ebert and the Rockers by 5 6:15-4 guys who like girls ... over Orange Blos­som special got...by 2 
Lyons 12 4:00-Murphy's men over Kitty Dukakis and 4 other destined to ... by 14 4:45-Not a chance in hell over Cavanaugh tun 
warriors and Rob by 15 
5:30-The Mephistophelian Meatuses over Fletch on ice by 1 0 6:15-We're better than a sharp stick ... over 5 
Larry Birds who can't. ..by 5 
Wednesday's Results 
Stepan 1 4:00-Rodon,sky and 3 other guys ... vs. We're not cheeseheads 4:45-2 third stringer & 3 right wingers vs. Mike & the Ministrel cycles 5:30-Touch-n-go vs. Betty's SC 6:15-Naked Gunners vs. Here it is 

Stepan 2 4:00· Groundskeepers of Busch Gardens vs. Hey Elemer. give me your lunch ... 4:45· Khomeni's Bounty Hunters vs. Wally, Ed­dy, Ward 5:30-5 guys who play hard vs. Dick Enberg, Dick Vitale. Digger & ... 6:15-Here's to you vs. Unseeded fertilizers 
Stepan 3 4:00-One jeri< too many vs. Dawn is smooth 4:45· As·salaam-alaikum vs. Vanilla Thunder 5:30-Ministers of Pain vs. Rubber Cement 6:15· Bennet's bullet & smorgasborg vs. Im­probable cause 
Stepan 4 4:00-"5 guys who get their dates drunk ... vs. We can't play,but we coach ... 4:45-Snarl< vs. Swish, swish, brick 5:30-Shooting blanks vs. Sport death 6:15-Take it to the crib vs. Digger stilled me a 
tip at Coach's 
Stepan 5 4:00-Ball-headed big daddy ... vs. Nice but nasty 4:45· Sly & the family stone vs. Train & the fuzz 
busters 5:30-Eddie & the Cruisers vs. Hickory 6:15-Rainmakers vs. Let's do it 
Stepan 6 4:00-'Null said vs. Gurus 4:45-Hoopsters from hell vs. We got the tools ... 5:30-Slow train comin' vs. Smell the glove 6:15-The Morris Inn Keepers vs. Killer Bees 
Bookstore 9 4:00-Murphy's Bar vs. Howie's Heroes 4:45-Fugitive guys finale vs. Air satan & the disciples of doom 5:30-Minahoonies vs. Puttin' down at the old waterin' hole 6:15-Ail the President's Men Ill vs. Shari< & 4 others who like to eat... 
Bookstore 10 4:00-The staggering deficiets vs. the Brick­
4:45-4 lung cookies & a chocolate...vs. 
Chestnut Mousse lightening 5:30-Whiskey Richard vs. 5 guys who signed up late 
6:15-Fire one vs. Banana, cucumber, ... 
Colleen, our queen, Is 21! What fun! 
Enjoy 
GBY, Love, 
Your fam damily 
Hoop 
continued from page 16 
our defense. All the guys agreed that playing them reminded us of our high school playing days because we pene­trated and got the ball inside." 
Clockwork Orange, unlike Malicious Prostitution, did not practice after its game, but Starns says that doesn't mean the team is not taking the tour­ney seriously. 
"Malicious Prositution 
doesn't have a prayer against 
us," Starns said. "They're 
good, but we're taking this just 
as seriously as they are." 
Adwork's All Stars, the 
defending Bookstore champs, cruised to a 21-4 win over Three Engaged Guys and Two Not on Stepan 6. 
Adwork's hit 21-of-36 from the field in advancing to the third round. Tony Rice and Kevin Keyes had five hoops each, while John Buscher and Derrick Johnson tossed in four each. 
"They hustled and kept us on our toes," Keyes said. "I thought we played well. It's good we finally get to go out and play together; we had such a long lay off.'' 
As the field is whittled away, the frequency of overtime games should increase. Four games went into overtime 

MAY 19, 20, 21 COMMENCEMENT WEEKEND UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES 
Needs Student Assistance HELP WANTED Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students planning to be here through Commencement Weekend· We have jobs available, serving the 1989 Commencement Activities 
JOBS: Waiters, Waitresses, Laborers, Expe~Jiters 
Sign up in the Basement of South Dining HrJI Betty Zimmerman (239-5449) 
Tuesday afternoon. Train and the Fuzz Busters edged Boink 23-21 behind the nine points of Ray Shea, while Air Satan and the Disciples of Doom got past Red Snapper 24­22 behind the 10 baskets from 
Matt Killian. 
The Monsters: Disciples of the Death Ball edged Phil the Man and the Dudes 27-25 as Peter Meringolo scored a team-high 14 points. 4 Guys Who Like Girls and a Dillonite slid past Orange Blossom Spe­cial Got Derailed by Jeff 22-20. 
Maureen McFadden Is a Fabulous Babe rolled into the third round with a 21-8 victory against Maui Wowie. Maureen's team could be over­shadowed by the station though, as WNDU cruised to a 21-7 rout of BV Deviants. 
Paris Cairo Hong Kong 499. 
Scheduled carriers! Book anytime! Above lares V• Round:rrip from Chicago. Some restrictions apply. On-th&-spot railpasses. lnt'l Studenti.D.. youth hostel passes. work and study abroad programs. FREE Student Travel Catalog. 
r 
I 
t 
~ 
l 
I' ! 
I ! 
I 

Associated Press 
CINCINNATI --The Cincin­nati Bengals, looking for an of­fensive lineman in Sunday's NFL college draft to fill a void created by free agency losses, are interested in Notre Dame tackle Andy Heck, but may not get a chance to select him. 
Heck, a 290-pound, 6-foot-6 of­fensive lineman, says he thinks the Indianapolis Colts are in­terested in him. The Colts draft Sunday in the No. 22 position, while the Bengals will draft second-to-last among the NFL's 28 teams by virtue of their Super Bowl appearance last season. 
The Bengals also would like to draft a running back as a dependable reserve for starters James Brooks and El­bert "lckey" Woods, and they are interested in finding an­other solid linebacker. Bengals coach Sam Wyche said his team is impressed with Texas A&M linebacker John Roper. 
"We've got our eyes on Roper, along with some others," Wyche said Monday. "He fits the mold of an NFL player, and he would fit a need. He's going to play in this league." 
Cincinnati has for some time had a strong interest in Heck. A tight end until his senior year in college, Heck was rated no 
·-----------------------~~-----· ------~--~--· ­
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, April 19, 1989 
Bengals interested in Heck, but Colts may take him first 

,,;ie(}j. 
Andy Heck 

better than a third-round prospect in three of the four top national draft guides because he was considered a bit lean for an NFL tackle. 
But Heck has gained about 25 pounds since appearing as a 
264-pounder  at  NFL scouting  
combine  workouts  in  
February.  

"I think the Colts are inter­ested," Heck said Monday. "I try to let most of what I hear go in one ear and out the other, but when I talked to Jack Bus­hofsky (Colts personnel direc­tor), I just got the feeling they liked me. He mentioned that they might have a need for an offensive lineman, that they felt I fit their system, and said, 'Just sit tight and see what hap­pens on draft day."' 
Heck said he thought he also had a good workout for Bengals offensive line coach Jim McNally. 
The Colts declined comment on what players they are inter­ested in. But Colts coach Ron Meyer, like MeNally, is known to have a fondness for tackles in the near 300-pound range. 
The Bengals are hurting in 
the offensive line after losing t,> 
reserves David Douglas and Dave Smith as free-agent players signed by other teams since the 1988 season. In addi­tion, starting lineman Joe Wal­ter may miss part of the 1989 season as he recuperates from · reconstructive knee surgery l'·x_~~_:_·.·
that caused him to miss the playoffs and the Super Bowl. 
The Colts also have a clear need at tackle. Starters Chris Hinton and Kevin Call both had injury-plagued seasons in 1988, and the Colts line has been criticized for not giving star tailback Eric Dickerson more blocking support. On 204 of his 388 carries last season, Dicker­son gained three yards or less. 

If Heck is picked before Cin­cinnati's draft turn, the Ben­gals may have to choose be­tween taking another offensive lineman or going for Roper. The Bengals are interested in tackles David Williams of Florida and Ralph Norwood of Louisiana State. The Observer 1 Trey Reymond 

Heck 
continued frorn page 16 
fan, but he has not expressed any preference for a particular team. He's only hoping that when he receives a phone call Sunday, it's the real thing. 
"I was talking to Dave But­ler, one of our former players, and he said he gave (Tom) Rehder a call last year and was faking he was a representative of one of the teams," said Heck. " (Rehder) had to be nice on the phone, even though he thought somebody was pulling his leg, but he about wanted to kill But­ler after that." 
Rehder, also an offensive lineman, eventually went to the New England Patriots in the third round. Heck should get the call sooner than that. 

Andy Heck, a 6-6, 290-pound senior tackle, has picked up 25 pounds since the NFL scouting combine in February to make himself a more tempting pick for the NFL draft. The Bengals and Colts hope to get Heck as a first-round pick. 
Question: How do you reach over 12,000people daily? · 
Answer: Buy Observer ad space. 
Call 239-6900. 
Ill ALUMNI __, 
~CLUB 

'89-'90 Disc Jockey Applications 
available in the Office of Student Activities 315 LaFortune. 
*Applications due April 21st 
..~~~~~~~~t 
i was once a nerd... 

until i started buying cd's at the cellar! 
it changed my life! 
-
the ~ 
change your life--drop by the cellar basement of Iafortune mon-sat 12·8 pm 
cellar 
visa & mastercard accepted 
tapes & cd's

.....................................................................• 
ADWOIIKS 

~~W--e-d-ne_s_d-ay-.-A-p-ri-I-19-.-1_9_8_9-----------------~~--~·~~------T-h_e__O~b-se_N__e_r--------------------------------~--~~-------~--p-a-ge--1~5----------~ 
CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 
12:10..1 p.m. Closed Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy 
ACROSS 27 Trafalgar Square 51 Pitcher
Cross House. 
figure 53 Cut into pieces 1 TV alien 

32 Moccasin
3 p.m. Baseball:Notre Dame vs. Northwestern University. 4 Arrears 55 Beersheba 34 Mexican food 
native

9 Donkey's sound 36 Disintegrate
13 Bk. 58 Giggle LECTURE CIRCUIT 14 Apprehensive 37Yearn 60 Long-necked 39"Le-bird
15 Hebrides island 
d'Arthur"

9:15a.m. Humanities Colloquium, "Modernization and Cul­16 Gelid 63 Hockey great tural Reflection: The Case of China," by Gao Xian, Kellogg 41 "Vissi d'-,"
17 Water bird 64 Part of T.S.E. 

Institute, 131 Decio. Puccini aria 
19 Noble 65 Did farm work 

42 Simmers
21 Italian seaport 
44 Dams 66 Peruke 
12:00 p.m. SMC Justice Education, "Discussion on Diversity 22 Teasdale and 
46 Archaic verb 67 Horned vipers 
Within the Cosmos," Margaret Cavanaugh, Chair and Pro­others 
ending

fessor in Chemistry, Stapleton Lounge. 24"-Mommy 68 Utter scornfully Kissing Santa 47 They tempted 
69 Papal nameClaus" Ulysses 

12:30 p.m. ND Dept. of Economics Labor Workshop, "Round 25 Platitude 49 Flowery3," by Frank Wilkinson, Cambridge University, 131 Decio. DOWN 
1 Enthusiastic 

3:30 p.m. ND Dept. of AerGMech. Engineering, "Display of ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 2 Place Finite Element Results on Actual Geometries," by Professor 
3 Insectivorous June L. Hawkins, Michigan State University, Room 356 bird Fitzpatrick. 
4 Heredity initials 5 Conger 4:20p.m. ND Dept. of Physics, "Applied Superconductivity: 6 Songbird 

20 Timetable abbr. 35 Clink 55 Hunter and 
A Dream or Reality," Dr. A.I. Braginski, Westinghouse R&D 
7 Despots Fleming23 Thailand, once 38 Lamb's dam

Center. Room 118 Nieuwland Science. 
8 Aleppo citizen 

26 Freight boat 40 Sea birds 56 Cut 9 Offers 28 Grazing ground 57 Word of 
43 P.G.A.'s Sam 
annoyance10 Complete defeat 29 Night bird 45 Seasoned

MENUS 30 Stable owner's 59 Therefore
11 Suffix with assist 48 -out (awaits

purchase 60 Agcy. once 
12 Jabber _anxiously)
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 31 Gorbachev's headed by 
50 Foulard G.HWB.
denial

Tangy Grid Chicken Beef & Noodles 
52 City in Ill. or Tex. 61 Comic Olsen 18 Moistened, in a 32 Bridge word 
Batter Fried Perch Jumbo Stuffed Shells 
way 33 Play part 54 Creepy 62 Sun. discourse 
Cheese Lasagna Baked Cod Beef Stroganoff-Rice Deli Bar 
COMICS 
BLOOM COUNTY BERKE BREATHED THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


Questions? /989
Call 239-6171 

Sports
page 16 Wednesday, April 19, 1989 
•

Men, women continue play 1n Bookstore tourney Malicious Prostitution l• Sparky's Franchise II gets j<)b done quickly triumphs in first round 

By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
Two of the women's bookstore tournament's 
top teams tallied their first wins Tuesday, but 
for one team, this feat was rather effortless. 
Sparky's Franchise II and Hoosier Lawyers both won, but Hoosier Lawyers, whose game Monday was played Tuesday due to court scheduling difficulties at Saint Mary's, got its first win by forfeit over The Ballhandlers. 
Sparky's Franchise II actually broke a sweat for its victory, cooking Cassidy's Roost 21-6 be­hind the eight points of last year's Miss Bookstore, Sandy Botham, and the seven points and nine rebounds of Kathleen McDavid. 
"You could ask every single person on our team," said McDavid, "and each would say that our ultimate goal is to score and score big with as many people as possible." 
Sparky's Franchise II will now advance in the tournament to face We've Never Been Scored Upon in the next round of .the East bracket. 
We've Never Been Scored Upon earned a shot at Sparky's Franchise II by turning the tables on Five Girls Who Love To Score, preventing them from doing just that with the help of Molly Flynn's eight points, in a 21-5 triumph. 
The Jaegermonsters downed The Mter Fives 

21-7 as Maura Schoshinski led the offensive 
onslaught with 10 points and 5'3" And Under 
The Observer I Trey Reymond Again won a defensive showdown with Wait Till Women's Bookstore Basketball action continued Tuesday with a pair You See Us Really Play, 11-7. 
By GREG GUFFEY Assistant Sports Editor 
The motto for Malicious Prostitution in Bookstore Basketball XVIII is simple--get the job done as quickly as possible. 
Mter a 12-minute romp last week, Malicious Prostitution needed just 15 minutes to dispose of 5 Guys Who Can't Score Inside 21-4 Tuesday afternoon. 
The winners used a running offense and shot 21-of-31 from the field. Jim Flynn paced Mali­cious Prostitution with six hoops and Joe Sternberg added five. 
"We just got the rebound and ran," Sternberg said. "We took three outside shots the whole game." 
Evidently, the team members know the games will not remain that easy as the tourney progresses. Mter the romp, they went to the Rock to work on improvements. 
"We've been getting into some bad habits playing against guys under six-foot," Sternberg said. "We were working on different kinds of defenses. I think we were playing pretty well over there." 
It took longer for Clockwork Orange to ad­vance to the third round, 21-11 over Stinky Pinky's. Like Malicious Prostitution, Clock­work Orange won in 12 minutes last week. 
Clockwork nailed 21-of-47 field-goal attempts in the victory. Frank Starns, Don Sharp and Tom Kraus scored five baskets each to key the winners. 
"Give Stinky Pinky's all the credit," Starns said. "They came out smelling and broke down 
of favorites cruising to victory. Sparky's Franchise Lawyers both recorded easy wins. 
see HOOP I page 13 

Irish baseball ready for Wildcats 
By SCOTT EIRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame baseball team, coming off a weekend against Dayton in which it won three out of four but was not at top form in doing it, faces Northwestern at Jake Kline Field at 3 p.m. today. 
The Irish, 27-7, scored 44 runs in four games against the Flyers, but the pitching staff allowed 25 runs, 18 of them earned. 
"The pitching staff was very discouraging," said Irish co­ach Pat Murphy, unhappy that the staff raised its ERA to 3.55 from 3.43 in eight games. "The pitchers got away from what they were capable of. The men­tal intensity was not there." 
More bad news is that junior Ed Lund, who started the first 32 games for the Irish at catcher, injured his shoulder diving back to first base after his game-winning single in the second game with Dayton on Saturday. Lund will be sidelined against Northwestern today. 
The whole team is not strug­gling, however, as the Irish have won 11 of their last 12 games. The team batting average has jumped from .289 to .305, helped by a .397 perfor­mance during the four-game stint with Dayton. 
One player who has come on strong is freshman Joe Binkiewicz, a power-hitting first baseman who is currently on a six-game hitting streak. 
Against Dayton, Binkiewicz was 7-for-15, including 6 RBI. He had thre1e hits and three walks in the 22-9 romp over the Flyers in Sunday's second game. 
"My role as a hitter is to take three cuts when I'm at the plate," said the freshman from Wintersville, Ohio. "My job is to drive the ball into the out­field." 
"Joe is an RBI man," said Murphy. "He understands that coming into a new level of baseball that he doesn't have to carry the team or anything like that. He just needs to take his three good cuts and be able to take a good swing at a two­strike pitch." 
The unique quality about Binkiewicz is that he can also pitch. He has pitched 6 1-3 in-nings for the Irish and owns a 

1.42 earned run average, usually pitching in the late in­nings of games already decided. He has not yielded a run in his last four appear­ances, and Murphy has high hopes for the multi-talented freshman. 
"Joe is going to be a better pitcher than he ever dreamed of," said Murphy. "He's got very, very good stuff. One of the reasons we haven't used him that much as a pitcher is because he's such a lbig part of our offense and we had to first solidify that. As it goes on a 
see CATS I page 13 

II and Hoosier The Vixens plucked the Birds, narrowly es­caping with a 21-19 win. Cory Vandenheede pro-, 
see SPARKY'S f page 12 ' 

Heck leads the way for Irish in NFL Draft 
If you're heading over to the nearest television set with cable to watch Sunday's NFL draft, don't expect to find Andy Heck anywhere in the vicinity. 
Heck, who probably will be the first Notre Dame player selected in the draft, plans to stay in his Sorin Hall room during the draft. In a campus without cable, that means he won't be watching the draft proceedings, which begin at 11 
a.m. on ESPN. 
Steve Megargee 

Irish Items 

"I'll be in my room at school just with my roommates-­Chris Zorich and Kent Graham," said Heck. "I don't want to be around a lot of people. That will be fine, being with my close friends." 
Heck has been the Notre Dame player who has earned the most attention from NFL scouts since helping the Irish to the 1988 national championship. Mter moving from tight end to offensive tackle, Heck did well enough on his first year in the interior to earn first-team All-America honors from the Associated Press. 
"Heck is a probable number-one draft choice," said Tom Braatz, the executive vice president of football operations for the Green Bay Packers. "There's a lot of potential with him. He and Tom Ricketts of Pitt should go either late in the first round or early in the second." · 
Tailback Mark Green, defensive end Frank Starns and linebacker Wes Pritchett also will get drafted. George Streeter, Darrell "Flash" Gordon and Corny Southall could get chosen in the later rounds. But Heck figures to be the firt Irish senior to receive a telephone call Sunday. 
Heck participated in the Ricoh Japan Bowl, an all-star game for pro prospects, two weeks after the Sunkist Fiesta Bowl. 
"It was good because1 I'd never get the chance to go to Japan otherwise, but I was glad to be back," said 6-6, 290­pound Heck, who has gained 25 pounds since February's NFL scouting combine at Indianapolis. 
Heck joined several former Irish teammates at the com­bine, which included physical examinations and drills like the 40-yard dash, bench press and shuttle run. 
Heck, from Annandale, Va., is a big Washington Redskins 
see HECK I page 14 



