

Wet and Gray 
Cloudy with a 50 percent 
chance of showers and thun­
derstorms Wednesday. High 
in the upper 50s, low in the 

/ACCENT: Values of education 
/VIEWPOINT: NOH worker 
middle 40s. 


WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 1989 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Oil spill cleanup to begin 
Bush investigates helping Exxon 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-President Bush dispatched three high­ranking officials to Alaska on Tuesday to "take a hard look" at the nation's worst oil spill and judge whether the govern­ment should take over the mas­sive cleanup job from Exxon. 
With an oil slick spread across 100 square miles of Prince William Sound, Bush said the first priority is to protect the environment and "clean up this disaster." Then, he said, the government will decide on any penalties for the spill. 
"This is a matter of tremen­dous concern to Alaskans and, indeed, to all of us," Bush said. "The conservation side is im-
Women may help Church survive 
By MARIA MILANO 
News Staff 
Feminist theologian and au­thor Rosemary Radford Reut­her explored the problem of sexism in the Roman Catholic Church. 
Tuesday's lecture, a part of the Arts and Letters Gender Studies series, traced the prob­lem of sexism in the Church from its historical beginnings to its continuing existence. 
In an overview of the prob­lem, Reuther stated that "how the church handles this issue of incorporating women into the Roman Catholic Church may determine if the church sur­vives." 
From early times women have been seen as subordinate to men, according to Reuther. She said that man was the generic understanding of both divine and human being. 
Reuther stated that women were previously suppressed 
Housing plans made for Senior Week 
Extension granted for students to make accommodations 
By LAURA DOWNS 
Staff Reporter 
Students with valid reasons to remain on campus during Senior Week must notify the Commence­ment Accomodations Com­mittee (CAC) by Monday, April 3, 1989. 
This deadline is an exten­sion of the original March 17 deadline. "We want to reach the last ones who haven't caught the deadlines yet," explained Dr. Peter Lorn­
• bardo, director of the CAC. 
Lombardo said that stu­dents who do not respond by Monday run the risk of not being able to remain in their own rooms during the week. 
portant. The energy side is im­portant." 
Bush was briefed on the dis­aster by Transportation Secre­tary Samuel Skinner, Environ­mental Protection Agency chief William Reilly and Coast Guard Commandant Paul Yost. Immediately after the meeting in the Oval Office, they left for Alaska. 
The oil spilled into the water after the 987-foot tanker Exxon Valdez, trying to avoid ice; rammed a reef and ran aground Friday. Fewer than 135,000 gallons of oil have been recovered from the 10.1 million-gallon spill. 
The ship's captain, Joseph Hazelwood, was not on bridge when the accident occurred. In­stead, the third mate, who did 
"The senior rooms are au­tomatically reserved, as are the rooms of students in­volved in the organizations that will be needed to stay for various functions during Commencement Week," said Lombardo. He ex­plained that the remaining rooms will be available to accomodate the families and friends of the graduates. The parents have already received by mail the registration form necessary to make the proper arrange­ments. 
Lombardo said that the CAC wrote to the heads of the various organizations that will be staying on campus during Senior Week trom public ministety and higher education. It has only been recently that women have begun to question their position in society and in the Church. 
Reuther said that "ministry in the Church is in crisis and women are doing a lot without recognition." Women are now allowed to perform lay mini­stery in the church but they are still cannot be ordained, said Ruether. 
American bishops are caught in the middle, said Reuther. Women are the majority of church goers and volunteer workers of the church. The bis­hops, however, are tied to the jurisdition of the Vatican and lack the independence to chal­lenge the Vatican's position, according to Reuther. 
Reuther claims that wo­men's general position in soci­ety has gone through changes, moving from an initially sub­ordinate position to a position of equivalence and partnership and that these organizations have already supplied them with lists of students who will remain. Therefore, he said, these individuals do not need to contact the CAC themselves unless they want to double-check. 
Mter April 3, the CAC will begin to respond to the housing requests received by the graduates' parents and send them their room assignments. "We will try to house them as close to their graduating senior as possi­ble," said Lombardo. 
He explained that due to the possibility that the room will already have been as-
see SENIOR, page 6 

not have proper certification, was in charge, according to Ex­xon Shipping Co., which owns the tanker. 
The harbor reopened Tues­day, tankers anchored offshore churned in to pick up oil, and winds which had been moving the oil died down. The port had been closed since the accident, reducing the flow' of oil through the Alaska pipeline. Coast Guard Lt. Ed Wieliczkiewicz said the oil slick spreading across the sound was clear of shipping lanes. 
Commenting on reports that Hazelwood had a drinking problem, National Transporta­tion Safety Board spokesman Bill Woody said, "We look at all areas in an investigation and that's an area of concern." 
in family and society. The American bishops' pastoral let­ter on women, however, con­tinues to "keep women tied to subordinate positions in the church and the society," said Reuther. 
Reuther believes that the Church's failure to fully recog­nize women is a fundamentally contradictory teaching and "an expression of weakness and not of strength." 
Catholics are standing at a crossroads, said Reuther. The church can either follow the lead of Vatican II and be more open and cooperative or it can retreat to the authoritarianism of Vatican I. 
Reuther concluded with the realization that oppressive be­havior will not completely dis­appear from a community. Both vision and creativity are needed in women's effort to gain their position in both the church and society, she said. 
NORTtfEAST NEIGHBORS? 
"·"-?/
r'f 
.;~:~·L',,,;". ·. . . 
The Observer I Chris Donnelly
.,~·lk~-·--­

Although the sun shines on the Northeast Neighborhood Service Center, things may not be so bright for students hoping to live there. The Northeast Neighborhood has been rezoned to a single family area, which may prevent students from living there in the future. 
Students left out of rezoning process 
By KENDRA MORRILL 
Senior Staff Reporter 
The rezoning of the North­east Neighborhood into single-family homes "came as a big surprise to all of us" in student government, said Tom Doyle, student body president. 
The rezoning of areas of the neighborhood in which 800 students live prohibits the establishment of group homes, or homes rented to more than two individuals. Homes already rented to three or more students can remain designated as group homes, according to the zoning ordinance. 
"Two weeks ago, the Neighborhood Housing Ser­vice bulletin came across my desk and the front page story was 'Northeast Neigh­borhood has been rezoned,' " Doyle said. "We never realized that was going on." 
"No students were notified about the (rezoning) process or final decision,'' said Mike Paese, student body vice president. "I think that's wrong." 
The rezoning of the North­east Neighborhood, which went into effect in October of 1988, was an effort to sta­bilize the number of group homes in that neighborhood, according to Jim Roemer, director of community rela­tions at Notre Dame. 
"(The people in the North­east Neighborhood) want a healthy mix, ethnically and demographically," said Roemer. "I think the neigh­borhood has the right to say that.'·' 
"Roemer's point is well­taken," said Paese, "but I disagree with him. I don't think it was done to maintain the homogeneity of the neighborhood." 
Students perenially have been a problem in the neigh­borhood's eyes, Paese said. He and Doyle said they think the neighborhood was rezoned in response to the students living there. 
"I spoke with Ann Mannix (of the Neighborhood Housing Service) , " said Doyle. "I said, 'This sounds like a direct negative response to students. Stu-
see REZONING, page 5 


page 2 
IN BRIEF 
War Games will begin next month for Grissom Air 
Force Base in Peru, Indiana, marking the first time in 
seven years that the base has conducted extensive exer­
cises, officials said. The war games, scheduled to begin 
April 8, will include dawn-to-dusk flights by fighter planes 
of the 930th Tactical Fighter Group. The exercises will 
help the unit prepare for a future inspection, said Col. 
Bane Lyle. Simulated airfield attacks will take place April 
12-14, Lyle said. People in the area of the base might see 
low altitude flying, smoke grenades and blanks being fired, 
he said. -Associated Press 
OF INTEREST 
Volunteer Opportunities in Haiti are available from May 15-June 10. French speakers are especially needed. If you are interested call the esc or come to the meeting today at 4 p.m. at the CSC. -The Observer 
lgorStravinsky'SL'HistoireduSoldatwillbeperformed this evening in the Flanner Hall main lobby at 8:30p.m. featuring both Notre Dame and South Bend Symphony musicians, and conducted by Carl Starn. -The Observer 
MulticulturalExecutiveCouncilapplicationdeadline is today at 4:30 p.m. Students interested in promoting cultural awareness at Notre Dame should turn in appli­cations in the Student Activities Office, 3rd Floor LaFor­tune. -The Observer 
Jesuit Volunteer Corps Recruiter Kim McCombs will be on campus Thursday, March 30 to talk to students interested in doing volunteer work after graduation. McCombs will be in the Library concourse in the morning and at the Center for Social Concerns from 1-5 p.m. -The Observer 
Alumni-Senior Club Bartender applications and job descriptions are available in the Office of Student Ac-­tivities, 3rd Floor LaFortune, and are due on Friday, March 31. -The Observer 
Last Day to Spend Club Money is Friday, April 21st for all campus clubs and organizations with no ex­ceptions. For questions, call 238-7417 between 12-4 p.m. daily or stop by the student government treasurer's office. 
-The Observer 
Senior Class Service Project needs seniors to help 
serve dinner at the Shelter for the Homeless. If interested 
call the Senior Class Office at 239-5136. -The Observer 
Les MiserablesTicketsfor seniorsforthe Wednesday, April 12 showing are still available in the Senior Class Office, 2nd Floor LaFortune and will be on sale Wed.-Fri. 3-5 p.m. -The Observer 
Hospitality Lunch featuring Mexican food will be served Thursday, March 30 from 11:30 a.m.-1 p.m. -The Observer 
Seniors Interested in Teaching, Sr. Deanna will be here on Thursday to talk to students who want to do volunteer work in teaching after graduation. She will be in the Library Concourse in the morning and the Center for Social Concerns-from 1-5 p.m. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests arid other public service 
announcements may be submitted at The Observer main 
office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center 
until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest 
announces free, campus-wide events of general interest. 
Lecture Circuit announces on-campus and local lectur­
ers. Campus announces other events of general interest, 
free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all 
submitted materials and determine if and where an­
nouncements will be published. -The Observer 

Design Editor . . ..... . ........ Kathy Glina Viewpoint Copy Editor ...... Mike Truppa Design Assistant ........... Cheever Criffin Vi~wpoint Layout ......... Moira Fox Typesetters....... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mike Kolar Accent Editor ............... Colleen Cronin ......................... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Accent Designer ............... Allison Cocks News Editor .................. Christine Walsh Typist . . .. . . .. . . . . . .. .. .. . . ...... Rosi Lozada Copy Editor .............. Florentine Hoelker ND Day Editor .... . . ...... Kathy Burns Sports Copy Editor ........ Steve Megargee SMC Day Editor ...... Alissa Murphy 
'hie Olllener (USPS S99 2-<tOOO) is published Monday throu1h Friday exccpl duriq exam and vacation periods. Tile ot.er.er is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collqe. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year (SlS per semester) by writina Tile Olllener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dune, Indiana 46S~. 
Tile Olllener is a member of Tile Allodated Pnu. All reproduction ri1hts are reserved. 

LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 

American
) i--l 
\....._ ,~!} ..... j/, 

Red Cross 

-~.-----~~~ 
Be a volunteer. 

DON'T DIIVI DlttnCit, OM RID£ WITH AfiYOtn: WHO DOl S 

Add some excitement to your Senior Formal with Tuxedos from Louie's 
BLACK CLASSIC 
$32.50* 
DESIGNER BLACK TUXEDOS 
$49.95* 
Choose from: 

Christian Dior Pierre Cardin Yves Saint Laurent Robert Wagner 
Formal Peg Pants Designer Shirts & Vests 
University Park Mall 
272-2486 
*Does not include damage waiver fee or extra charge items. 
The Observer 

Many students, for a variety of reasons, remained on campus for the just completed Easter vacation. Whether they stayed due to the short length of the break or the long distance to their home, these students were in for quite a pleasant surprise. Shattering all South Bend stereotypes, this break featured four consecu­tive days of beautiful sunshine and warmth. 
As a living example to the adage that "Notre Dame weather follows Notre Dame students", I was one of the most astonished at the weather. Living in the East, I've always received double doses of South Bend weather around break time. I'd leave ND on a Saturday with snow or rain coming down and, by approximately Tues­day, that rain or snow would have caught up to me on the East Coast. Even when I went to Daytona Beach this year, South Bend weather tagged along-or do you call temperatures in the 40-50 degreerange normal in Florida? Thus, imagine my surprise when I called home on the first day of break in warm and sunny South Bend to find it raining back home! 
Sadly, there was one drawback to the beau­tiful weather. My roommates and I had planned on burying ourselves in our books-for four straight days-so we'd have a jump on the second half of the semester. I'm sorry to report, however, that the 'brare and great weather are not necessarily an optimal combination for in­dulging in work when you're a sun-starved Domer. The lure of "Club ND" was too hard to resist: sunshine plus high temps plus no classes equaled outdoor fun. The hardest decision I had to make this weekend didn't concern quant or b-law, but rather, "tennis or basketball?" Other options included bicycling, softball, frisbee or just lounging by the lake. Regardless of 'the choice, I couldn't lose. 
Not only was the weather a bonus for outdoor activities, but also, it served to boost everyone's spirits as well. With seemingly arctic temper­atures prevalent only a week before, who couldn't appreciate the Easter Bunny's early present? 
Also contributing to the successful break was the hard work of Notre Dame's non-student community, specifically on Easter itself. The High Mass at Sacred Heart Church on Easter Sunday is a particularly noteworthy event, a joyous celebration which should be experienced first hand by all who have the opportunity. While I normally attend Sunday night mass in the chapel of my dorm, the Sacred Heart liturgy was well worth getting up early to attend. The Church was quite a sight: sun streaming through the stained glass windows, the pres­ence. of innumerable floral arrangements, a multitude o~ worshippers in their Sunday finest, and the chmr arranged high above the congre­gation in the balcony. In addition, I can only praise the staff of University Food Services for the Easter dinner prepared and served that day. 
While my roomies and I did miss our families on this special holiday, the combination of the "Club ND" atmosphere and the special efforts put forth by the Notre Dame community made this a truly enjoyable holiday. While the streak of perfect weather did end Monday evening with some showers, don't despair-spring has made its first appearance at the Dome in '89 and I'll be the first to say that its timing was just about perfect. In addition, as the girls of Badin Beach and the guys at the Stepan Courts will be sure to tell you, who would ever have time for classes or studying if it were always warm and sunny in South Bend? 


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, March 29, 1989 
ND professor to get Javits Award 
By CATHY FLYNN News Staff 
Professor Subhash Basu, chairman of the biochemistry, biophysical, and molecular bi­ology program, is the first fac­ulty member from Notre Dame to be awarded the Jacob Javits Neuroscience Award by Congress. "Every year, 20,000 scientists like me apply for grants, out of which 6000 are awarded them," Basu said. "Out of the top 60, they give Javits awards." 
In 1983, Congress instituted the Javits award in honor of the late New York senator, who was a victim of a neurological disorder commonly known as Lou Gehrig's disease. Basu will recieve a $1.2 million grant to support his neuroscience re­search for seven years. 
"My research covers 

Associate provost prepares to leave N D 
By MISSY WEBER News Staff 
Sister John Miriam Jones, as· sociate provost of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, is leaving July 1 to become provincial of the Central Province of the Sisters of Charity in Cincinnati. 

Chicago Hair Cutting Co.s 
MARCH PERM SALE 
Sale Oatea: March 1st through March 31st 
s 
!1fJJrt0C!F!lf13 [fJflfirs!J3!1@[jJ rt(!]fJ f!J 3IJJ@(jj)[j)@@ 
Mishawaka Indian Ridge Plaza (Next to Venture) Grape Rd. 277-7946 
Hours: Daily 9-8 PROFESSIONAL Sat. 9-6 Sun. 11-5 PERMS
ZOTOS 
©Copyright~ Cut & Penn 1988 
Alzheimer's, Tay-Sachs, and gangliosidosis diseases," he said. "Since glycolipids are present on the surface of brain cells, my team is trying to find out to what extent incorrectly synthesized glycolipids are re­sponsible for brain disorders." 
Basu's "team" includes his wife, Associate Professor of Research Dr. Manju Basu and Dr. Kamal Das, associate pro­fessor of research. Basu will lead their efforts, which he thinks may eventually show the way in healing defective DNA. 
"Since it's 1983 inception, we have awarded 341 grants, but the amount has differed accor­
ding to each situation," said a spokesperson for Mr. John C. Dalton, associate director of the Institute of Health. Basu received one of the largest grants. 
St. Joseph, where she was recently elected spiritual director of a community of some 200 sisters which she joined in 1943. 
Jones says she is surprised about the election but "If I have to leave, it's nice to go like this with people at Notre Dame saying 'We don't w~nt you to go,' and others from my com­munity saying 'We really want you here."' 
In 1972, Jones was initially asked to oversee the beginning of coeducation at Notre Dame. She said that it was "a part of history making. . . By adding women, the goal was not to change what was right about Notre Dame. . . only broaden it." 
Coeducation was right for Notre Dame because it is more similar to the rest of the world, said Jones. 

• 
The Observer page 3 

by adding women people feared that they would be eroded. That did not happen. Women have only enhanced and exemplified them better," Jones said. 
Although the early women at Notre Dame were in obvious minority, the situation is "much more normal today," said Jones. 
As Jones has had less need to spend time getting coeducation off the ground and the concerns of women have no need of an intermediary, she has been diverted in her job as associate provost. 
Afew responsibilities include coordinating faculty appoint­ments, supervising affirmative action activities, providing for the needs of disabled students and serving as liaison with the three Reserve Officer Training 
see JONES, page 6 

ATTENTION FOREiGN GRADUATE STlTDENTS PART-TIME CONSULTANTS 
FOR INTERNATIONAL FIRMS 
Large Multinational client companies 
currently seek qualified individuals with 
foreign language fluency and area expertise 
for competitive consulting opportunities in 
selected European, Asian, African, and Latin 
American Markets. Foreign students in 
advanced degree programs welcomed. 
Experience in scientific, economic, and 
international relations fields a definite plus. 
Part-time assignments available during school 
year including opportunities for J-1 and F-1 
Visa students. Salaries based upon 
qualifications. All positions are fee paid, no­
cost to applications. For prompt consideration, 
please send a resume or letter describing your 
qualifications with day/evening telephone 
numbers to: Swenson, Crawford & Paine . Attn: Chris Olson Executive Search Division 
P.O. Box A-3629 Chicago, IL 60690 No Phone Calls Please. All re lies stricti confidential. 
Senior wins 
prize for 
painting 
By DESIREE DE LISLE News Staff 
Twenty-eight pieces of art were displayed Tuesday at the annual art exhibition spon­sored by the Student Govern­ment, the Snite Museum, and the Alumni Association. 
.1 Twenty-eight pieces of art were entered in the exhibition. Paintings, photographs, etchings, color drawings, and sketches were the different mediums represented by these pieces.
The Alumni Association awarded a two hundred dollar purchase pri;le for the first place exhibit. The painting "Raindance" by Senior • Deborah Florence Maley took the top honor. This painting, said Maley, is "an introspec­tive view of a rainy day." 
The Snite Museum pur­chased the second and third place pieces for one hundred dollars each. Second place went to Junior Christopher Crossen's expanded frame col­lage titled "Red Tails at LAX." ''Strangers,'' a color etching by Junior Mary Boutote, came in third place. 
These three pieces of art will be donated to the LaFortune Student Center and will be put 
on display. 

Three announced winners of the Irish Clover Award 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER Senior Staff Reporter 
Student senate announced the winners of the Irish Clover Award for outstanding service to the students and filled several·cabinet positions in the next student government in its last regular meeting of the school year. 
The three winners include Joseph McKenna, the rector of Sorin Hall and a chairman of the Iceberg Debates; Dan Walsh, the Business Board Manager; and John Hamill, who worked on the Iceberg Debates, student government, and the Hiler-Ward debate last fall. 
The senate held an open nomination and voting forum for the Clover Award. The award is given to those who "have gone far beyond the nor­mal call of duty in their service to the students," said Student Body President Tom Doyle. 
"This award basically is a way of showing our apprecia­tion for those who are unselfish in their service to the student body," Doyle said. 
In addition, senate revealed the names of several persons who will take positions in stu­dent government under Matt Breslin, the student body president-elect. 
Guy Weismantel is the stu­dent body treasurer for the 1989-90 school year, and Molly Griffin will take over for Dan Walsh as the new business board manager. 


Amsterdam $235.00 Munich $259.00 Zurich $275.00 V18nna $279.00 
Scheduled carrie!s' Book anytime' Abolle fares 
'h Round'Tnp from Chicago Some reslrictions apply. On-1he-spol railpasses. lnl'l Studenll.U. youth hostel passes. work and study abroad programs. FREE Student Tr~ Catalog. 
29 E. Delaware Pl. Chicago. IL 60611 312·95Hl585 







Retail Price on Apple brand peripherals With the purchase of qualifying Macintosh® Systems. Rebates up to 
., ., .,


$800 per system. 
/ / / 
..... ' ' ...
/ / / / .
,,.,.,.,., 
/ / / / / /

Hurry, offer expires ............................... 
///////. ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... / / / / / / / /


March 31. 
Full-ti1ne Students, 
I,...aculty and Staff, 
Contact: Notre Dame Computer Store Room 25 Computing Center 
239-7477 
Hours: 9:00-5:00pm Monday thru Friday 
© 1989 Apple Computer, Inc. , Apple, the Apple logo and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. 
Wednesday, March 29, 1989 The Observer page 5 




U.S. State Dept. starts visa 'lottery' 
Associated Press 
WARSAW, Poland-The aspirations of the young Pole in the crowd outside the U.S. embassy weren't grandiose: "I would like to work and live a normal life." 
But they speak volumes in a country where little is "nor­mal" other than spirit-sapping shortages of everything from housing to hop.e. 
So he and hundreds of thousands of others worldwide have taken a chance on finding a place in what they see as a land of plenty. They have en­tered a U.S. State Department lottery to win one of 20,000 im­migration visas to the United States to be issued over two years starting in October. 
A computer will select the 
winners, rather than the im­
migration officers, who nor­
mally must strictly limit visas 
to those who have specialized 
skills or a close relative in the 
United States. 
"This lottery may be their 
only charice of immigrating," 
said Phyllis Villegoureix­
Ritoud, consul-general of the 
U.S. embassy in Warsaw. 
Many Poles learned about the program from Voice of America broadcasts "as my ringing phones can testify," 
said embassy Second Secre­tary Sylvie Martinez. "We haven't had a moment's peace since." 
Rules for the lottery are quite specific. The applications are mailed directly to Washington, with refugee status because those quotas have been filled," said Jim Wagner of the Tolstoy Foundation for Soviet refugees in Rome. 
Each person can send only one application. It must be typewritten, contain specific information and photographs, and be mailed in an envelope of specific size. 
In impoverished Bangladesh, a business started overnight to sell applications and envelopes following the prescribed form. An envelope sold for about 31 cents, five times normal, and the same price was charged to get the address typed. 
In Peru, a mail strike that started Feb. 2 has complicated matters, with many people much too poor to afford a private courier. 

Selected Portraits from The Wisconsin Center for Film and Theater Research University of Wisconsin 
The Snite Mu:;eum of Art Opening Reception University of Notre Dame Saturday, April 1 April 1 -May 21, 1989 from 6-9:30 pm 
~'('­~ ~0 MOVIES OPENING NIGHT: "a.~fij. "Easter Parade," 1948, 7:00pm ~'~(:P~ "Tarzan, The Ape Man," 1932,9:00 pm 
")vc;q_Oq_ 
BRING THIS COUPON TO THE RECEPTION:~«," become a member of The Snite and ~0 see the movies opening night for free! 
Th~ exhib~ ~sponsored by The Kathy and Richard Champlin Endowment. Movies and lectures ore mode possible bY The Alice Tully Endowment for the Arts. 

Ice flew and tankers 
Tankers are still pumping oil after the Exxon Val­the tanker's mishap is blamed on ice like this that dez ran aground Friday. In the foreground is an drifts across the shipping lane in the Prince William ice flow from the Columbia glacier. The cause of Sound. Story page 1. 
hood) didn't deal with the Uni­versity's side," Paese said.

Rezoning 
"Were students' problems and concerns brought up? I
continued from page 1 
wonder." dents aren't necessarily The University also has a wanted (in the neighborhood).' vested interest in the Northeast She said, 'I'd have to agree Neighborhood since 800 stu­with you; by and large the dents live there, said Paese. A rezoning was a response to stu­housing shortage could result dents.' " if the number of student homes 
"We should've been con­in the neighborhood substan­sulted to solve the problems tially decreased, he said. and address the issues," said A grandfather clause allows Paese. "If we were the prob­landlords now renting their lem, we would've liked to help homes to more than two stu­make it better.'' dents to continue to do so. But 
"We're not questioning when a landlord sells his home anyone's rights, but (Roemer or discontinues renting it as a and the Northeast Neighbor-group home, the home is 
SENIOR CLUB BILLIARDS 
. 9·BALL 
3-CUSHION BILLIARDS SNOOKER 
WE HAVE THE BEST "SHOOTIN" TABLES IN THE AREA, WITH A QUIET PLAYING ATMOSPHERE. EVERYONE PLAYS "POOL" AT THE: 
SENIORS CLUB BILLIARDS 603 E. WASHINGTON SOUTH BEND 287-7324 
OPEN MONDAY THRU SATURDAY 9 AM-? HOMF OF THF I F~FNnARY TOM MROZ 

Applications are now being accepted for 
FRESHMAN ORIENTATION EXECUTIVE 
COMMITTEE 1989 
They are available in LaFortune in the 2nd Floor (Secretary's Office). The deadline date for submitting the application is Monday, March 3 at 5:00pm. 
redesignated a single-family residence. 
"Could not the second step be asking developers to come in and buy out landlords' houses and then displace students?" said Paese. "It's a distinct pos­sibility that if the (student) 

. houses are already a problem, the next step is to get rid of them." 
Both the University and stu­dents share the blame for not taking an active part in the rezoning process, according to Doyle and Paese. 
"Students have to assume some responsibility for not being more involved with com­munity relations," said Doyle. 
"But we need the Univer­sity's help," added Paese. "We are basically transients in a community where we don't own property or have votes. Without the University's initia­tive, we're an unrepresented, uninfluential minority. We have no pull with anyone," he said. 
"(Roemer) should have solicited not only (Vice Presi­dent of Student Affairs) Fr. David Tyson's opinion but also the student body president's opinion," said Paese. 
''The time to find out how to be good neighbors isn't after the rezoning," he said. "We should've been invited to talk about it a long time ago." 

Mishawaka ln'dian Ridge Plaza (Next to Venture) Hours: Daily 9-8 
Sat. 9-6Grape Rd. 
Sun. 11-5277-7946 




page 6 

U.S.-Iraq reach a 'fair settlement' 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-U.S. offi­cials said Tuesday that Iraq's agreement to pay $27.35 million to the families of the 37 sailors killed in the attack on the USS stark is a satisfactory and fair settlement but it is unclear when the payments will be made. 
The agreement, formally an­nounced by the State Depart­ment, represents about 92 per­cent of the $29.6 million the United States had requested for the families of those who died in Iraq's unprovoked missile attack on the Stark in 1987. 
Bush administration officials privately described the agree­ment as "satisfactory" and a "fair settlement." The sources, speaking on condition they not be identified, also said it remained unclear when Iraq would hand over the money. 
They said Iraqi officials had of­fered the settlement in a take­it-or-leave-it manner. 
The officials said Americans who were in Baghdad to settle the matter were called in to see Iraqi Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz on Monday "and told that this was what (Iraqi) President (Saddam) Hussein had decided." 
"There were no negotia­tions," one source continued. "They just announced this was what they were prepared to pay." 
"It was apparent to our delegation that this was going to be the best they could do. They didn't dicker," said an­
other official. 
The sources said they could not explain how Iraq settled on the figure. 
Unopposed candidates ·lose in Soviet elections 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW-At least 37 key Communist Party and govern­ment leaders went down to em­barrassing defeats in the Soviet Union's first multicandidate election, according to results trickling in Tuesday from across the nation. 
The losers in balloting for a new national parliament in­cluded a candidate member of the ruling Politburo, the premiers of Latvia and Lit­huania, and 27 Communist Party leaders from major cities, regions and republics, according to results obtained from interviews and various press reports. 
The humiliation was greatest for officials who ran unopposed on the ballot and still lost be­cause more than 50 percent of 
the  voters  crossed  out  their  
names.  
Activists  in  cities  from  
Leningrad  to  Kiev  waged  

"cross-out" campaigns urging citizens to vote against certain officials by blacking out their names on the ballots. 
Izvestia reported Tuesday what it called the "sensation­al" result that no one was elected in 168 electoral districts where there were only one or two candidates because so many citizens voted against them. 
In the weeks prior to the elec­tion, activists carried posters in Kiev illustrating ballots with several names crossed out. Uk­rainian Communist Party 
Chief Vladimir Shcherbitsky won anyway, but voters rejected both the party chief and the mayor of Kiev. All three ran unopposed. 
In Leningrad, Deputy Mayor Alexei. Bolshakov also lost despite facing no opposition. Scraps of hand-made posters appeared throughout the city in . recent weeks suggesting he be defeated for that reason alone, according to a resident. 
The defeat of so many top Communist Party and govern­ment officials was seen as a blow to the establishment, but Foreign Ministry spokesman Gennady Gerasimov said Tues­day that 80 percent of the party's candidates had won. 
-

---------------------~--------------~ ~---------­

The Observer Wednesday, March 29, 1989 
COLLEGE STUDENTS GET EVERnHING THEY WANT 
And right now you can get a great deal on just about every album, cassette, and CD that you want at Peaches. Bring in these valuable coupons and pick up the hottest music at the hottest savings. Choose from our huge selection of titles including the top college hits you see below. So hurry in and let Peaches continue to help you get everything you want. 
.------, .------, I 
SUPER COUPON #1 I -SUPER COUPON #2 
IANY CASSETTE OR LP I I ANY COMPACT DISC 1 
:$6.99. : : SJJ.99 : 
I 
Present this coupon and receive any cassette or I I Present this coupon and receive any compact I 
LP (regularly priced up to $9.99) for $6.99. disc (regularly priced up to $15.99) for $11.99. Limit 3. This coupon not valid with other Limit 3. This coupon not valid with other rs. Expires 4/1/89. Redeemable at Pe:~ I ._I off;rs. Expires 4/1/89. Redeemable_at Pe;~ I 
MIDGE URE 
ANSWERS TO NOTHING 

COWBOY JUNKIES 
THE TRINITY SESSION 
@~ ·= 
..;&.... Walking ...,_, Mldnlghl 

,~1~1),,~ 
' .....  '  ,'!.':r  -'  
VIOLENT FE~lMES 3  

Mishawaka, 5784 N. Grape Road, Indian Ridge Plaza, (112 mile west of University Mall), 271-9715 
~~~-[d] 
Jones 
continued from page 3 
Corps detachments on campus. 
"My job is never boring, which is why I have mixed emotions about leaving," stated Jones. "While I'm happy to go back to my congregation, I don't ·want to leave Notre Dame." 
Jones holds an M.S. in biology 
Senior 
continued from page 1 
signed, students notifying the CAC of their need to stay may not be able to remain in their own rooms. "We are going to try to accomodate everyone as well as we can," he said, "but in certain cases we will have to make special provisions." 
All undergraduates who will not be staying during Com­mencement Week must vacatP their rooms by 5 p.m. on Sat­urday, May 13, as stated in the housing contracts and on the and a Ph.D. in microbiology from Notre Dame and has held concurrent faculty status in the Dept. of Biological Sciences since her appointment as the University's highest ranking female administrator in 1972. 
At that time, a handful of wo­men entered Notre Dame. Jones leaves her position at a time when women number roughly a third of Notre Dame's students. 
notice sent to each undergrad­uate by Student Residences early in March. 
The notice lists the only con­ditions that will permit ex­tended stay on campus, such as having a graduating bro­ther, sister, or fiance, belong­ing to an organization whose services will be required during Commencement Weekend, and being a foreign student. 
Commencement Weekend begins at noon on Friday, May 
19. All remaining students, par­ents, and guests will be re­quired to leave by noon on Mon­day, May 22. 


~------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, March 29, 1989 
The Observer page 7 
Purdue experiment done aboard shuttle 
Associated Press 
SPACE CENTER, Houston­The deaths of 16 chicken embryos during a space shuttle flight this month raise a ques­tion whether animal life can begin in weightless space, a physician-astronaut said Tues­day. 
Thirty-two chicken eggs were carried aboard Discovery in an experiment devised by Purdue University student John Vellinger. Half of the eggs were fertilized nine days before the March 13 launch, the other half two days before liftoff. 
Dr. James Bagian, a member of the shuttle's five-man crew, told a news conference that when Discovery returned to Earth, all 16 of the younger embryos were dead. The older ones all hatched, and the chicks are being examined for any ef­fects from the five-day expo­sure to weightlessness. 
Bagian said the chicken ex­periment and another in which he observed plant growth were designed to determine if cell 
uled to launch soon in continuation of NASA's Shuttle olanet Venus.
lhe Dome 
Summer 
Is Now Accepting 
Applications 
STORAGE
for 
RESERVATION
All Staff and Editorial Positions 
CALL NOW I683-19591
For the 1989-90 
• VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS
Yearbook 
Applications Available 
• APPROX 21/2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 
In the Student Activities 
•GATES OPEN ALL DAY SUNDAY 
Office, 315 LaFortune Master Mini Warehouses 
P.O. BOX tOO NILES, MICHIGAN 49120
Reply by Friday, April 7 
"BEST LITTLE STORE-HOUSE IN MICHIANA" 
··--..-...._.~-~..-..---._..,___,_1_-·-~-----------~---------·----_,_...f 
/ 
The space shuttle Atlantis crawls slowly to launch Program, scant weeks after the Discovery lifted off. pad 398 at Kennedy Space Center. Atlantis is sched-It will launch the Magellan Probe, which will map the 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I WliEN: 
I 
II WI-IERE: 
i 
I CONTACT: 
COST: 
division is somehow "impeded or mutated" to some extent due to lack of gravity. 
"There is a big question be­cause the 2-day-old embryos died," he said. "Is there a c~r­tain point in the differentiation of cell types where they are vul­nerable to the effects of the loss of gravity? Maybe gravity plays up to now an unknown role but a very essential role in that the older ones, at nine days, are past that crucial gate, if you will, and they are developing normally." 
The experiment may show life cannot "begin anew" in or­bit, Bagian said. "You may have to supply a gravity envi­ronment for a period of time." 
The research could have an impact on plans to grow plants and animals on lengthy space journeys, such as an expedition to Mars. 
"What looked like a very simple experiment may turn out to have generated thousands of questions now in­stead of providing answers , · · 
said crewman John Blaha. 

%e '1\9ad ofthe Jfeart 's 'Desire 
A retreat weekend directed by Father John Dunne, CSC 
April 7-9, 1989 Crowe House Cantpus Ministry Office 
239-5242 $10.00 per person 
sign-up periods: 

March 27-31, 1989 
Lake Michigan (Badin Hall) 


OFFICE OF 0MPU5 
MINISTRY 
University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Protesting plagues the .Academy 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES-If the Academy Awards are best known for garish gowns and overlong acceptance speeches, then Oscar-oriented protests run a close third, and Wednes­day night's awards ceremony will be no exception. 
As the producers of the 61st Academy Awards hurried on Tuesday to prepare the show, protesters picketed the studios of MGM-United Artists, de­manding an apology for the comic depiction of stuttering in the triple-nominated film "A Fish Called Wanda." 
"If young children across the country are watching this film, they really won't understand how the person who stutters is abused verbally and shamed by everyone around him," said Mark Power, a member of the advisory board of the National Stuttering Project. 
"I don't think (a film maker) would have a blind person walking into walls and have people kid him about that or make fun of him," Power said. "But it's the same thing with stuttering. People are born with the problem, and there's nothing you can really do about it." 
Ironically, another United Artists release has been praised for its sensitive depic­tion of a disability. "Rain Man," in which Dustin Hof­fman portrays an autistic savant, is this year's most nominated film, and is favored 
Ubrary Concourse 219•239·6536 Jto win several major awards, 

-----------------·-__________________:::::::~~--including best picture. 
~pa~ge~8_______________________________Th_e_O_bs_e~_er ______________________w_ed_ne_sd_ay_,M_ar_ch_29_._198_9 

I 
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN ( 
l ( 

) 
} 
(

BECOMING IN\IOLVED IN ( 
~)tudent Government? ( 
I 

WELL, STUDENT GOVER~IMENT WANTS YOU!! 
) ) CABINET POSITIONS AVAILABLE:
} 
Executive Assistant Chief of Staff Student Government Secretary Board of Trustees Coordinator Executive Coordinator -Student Life 
Women's Concerns l Hall Presidents' Council Liaison ) Campus lnprovementS'Security 
Religious Concerns 
Minority Concerns ) Student Services ) Athletics l Alcohol, Food, and Health 
) 
) 
Executive Coordinator -Public Relations 
) ) 
Alumni Relations
) 
NOOMC Relations
) ) ) 
Director of Public Relations and 
Off-Campus 
Foreign Relations 
) 
) Student Government Photographer 
) 
Publicity 
I I I 

Executive Coordinator -lntell. Life 
Social Concerns 
Cultural Concerns 
Academics 

Intellectual Life 
Political Concerns 
( 
( 

Executive Coordinator -National Catholic Organization 
Executive Coordinator -Legal Department 
I 

Research Department University Documents 
Executive Coordinator -Special 
I 

Applications Available at Student Government Secretary's DE!Sk I 2nd Floor LaFortune .) Applications Due 
l 
Wednesday, April 5 
) 

Wednesday, March 29, 1989 The Observer page 9 
•

Ueberroth interested 1n buying Eastern Airlines 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Texas Air Corp. directors met Tuesday and were expected to consider offers to buy strike-crippled Eastern Airlines, sources said. 
Peter Ueberroth, whose term as baseball commissioner ends Saturday, may offer $300 mil­lion to $500 million during the meeting that ends Wednesday, said baseball and airline indus­try sources. Takeover special­ist Carllcahn hoped union con­cessions would persuade Eastern creditors to let him take control. 
Sources said substantive dis­cussions in the regularly sched­uled meetings probably wouldn't get under way until Wednesday. Texas Air spokes­man Art Kent in Houston said the company wouldn't com­ment on whether a meeting was being held. 
"There are a lot of those 
Meese testifies that he informed Reagan 
Associated Press forts by North, his secretary and an aide, was found on Nov. 
WASHINGTON-Former At­22, 1986 by Meese aide William torney General Edwin Meese Bradford Reynolds in North's III testified at Oliver North's office. The next day, a Sunday, trial Tuesday that the specter Meese met with North and of impeachment hung over the others at the Justice Depart­White House in the 72 hours ment. after aides discovered a planned diversion of Iran arms Meese said that in the Sunday sale money to the Nicaraguan meeting, North appeared Contras. surprised that Meese had ob­
In two hours of testimony, tained the memo which out­Meese said he told then­lined the arms sales profit di­President Reagan about the di­version plan. version the day after North "I believe he asked where we confirmed that the plan, had gotten the memo," said outlined in a memo, had be­Meese. come a fact. 
"Your worst nightmare had He testified also that North come true'?" asked North assured him then that the plan lawyer Brendan Sullivan. was Israel's and U.S. involve­"Yes, it had," Meese replied. ment was "none." And he said "You knew that spelled trou­North told him he had con­ble'?" tacted Contra leader Adolfo "Yes, I did." Calero and suggested Calero The nightmare that Sullivan open three accounts in Switzer­
referred to was the revelation land to get the money from the that two activities in which Israelis. North was deeply involved had been intertwined: the adminis­In truth, North co-defendants tration's secret sale of weapons Richard Secord and Albert to Iran and the fact that money Hakim had arranged to receive from the arms sales-with the the Iran money in private Swiss knowledge of U.S. officials­accounts they established and 
secretly was going to the rebels controlled, investigators found. fighting the Nicaraguan gov­ernment at a time such aid was Meese said he talked to the forbidden by law. president on Monday and they 
"Merging of those two fac­talked of the impact the public tors could cause toppling of the disclosure might have. president himself?" asked Sul­"I don't know whether the ac­livan. tual word impeachment was 
used," Meese testified. But he "Yes," Meese replied. said there was concern over The memo, which had sur­"the tremendous conse­
vived massive shredding ef-quences" of the discovery. 
LIVE AN INTERNATIONAL EXPERIENCE 
Saint Louis University 
-MADRID­AMERICAN EDUCATION WITH A PLUS 
UNDERGRADUATE COURSES: 
• 
Business Administration: Economics, ...Accounting, Statistics, Finance. 

• 
Computer Science. 


• 
Communications: Advertising, Journalism, ... Radio. 

• 
Hispanic Studies. 


• 
French, English, Spanish grammar. 

• 
Engineering. 


• 
TESOL: Teaching Eng. as a second language. 

• 
And thirty other choices. 



JOIN OUR SUMMER PROGRAM: JUNE 19 -JULY 28 ENJOY: Our highly qualified instruction. Individual attention. Housing with Spanish families and dorms. Group trips around Spain. 
INFORMATION: Cl De Ia Vina, 3 -28003 MADRID Tel: 233-2032 or 233-2812 
rumors going around," Kent said. Indications of Ueberroth's in­terest came as Icahn, owner and chairman of Trans World  tually grounded the Miami­based airline. A federal judge in Miami scheduled a hearing Thursday on Eastern's efforts to force its rebellious pilots  hoped to recommend a can­didate to U.S. bankruptcy court Judge Burton Lifland by early next week.  
Airlines  Inc.,  resumed  talks  back to work.  The  list  of  possible  ex­ 
with Eastern's unions about a  aminers  for  Eastern,  which  
possible takeover. lcahn hoped  Meanwhile, U.S. bankruptcy  filed  for  protection  from  
to win concessions, said Brian  Trustee Harold Jones, adminis­ creditors on March 9, includes  
Freeman,  an  investment  tering Eastern's Chapter 11 re­ former  Defense  Secretary  
banker with close ties to the  organization in New York, said  Frank Carlucci and top secur­ 
Machinists union.  he  was  interviewing about  a  ities fraud lawyer Leon Silver­ 
The union struck March 4,  dozen candidates for Eastern  man, sources close to the sit­ 
and support from pilots has vir­ bankruptcy  examiner.  He  uation said.  


Associated Press Iran's U.N. ambassador, a letter on March 26 asking him 
Mohammad Jaafar Mahallati, to step down, reported Iran's 
NICOSIA, Cyprus-Ayatollah also resigned Tuesday, two official Tehran radio, moni­Ali Montazeri resigned on days after the deputy foreign tored in Nicosia. Tuesday as the heir-apparent minister, Mohammad Javad "I see myself compelled to to Ayatollah Ruhollah Larijani, handed in his resig­obey your orders, because the Khomeini and said he did so at nation. Both were U.S.­survival and stability of the Is­the bidding of the 88-year-old educated. lamic Republic rests on revolutionary patriarch him­Khomeini last month harshly obeying your command," the self. attacked those who would radio quoted the 64-year-old
Montazeri was the most rebuild links with the West and Montazeri as saying. prominent casualty so far in a denounced lagging revolution­The immediate cause of Mon­fierce drive by Khomeini to ary fervor. tazeri's ouster appears to be his 
-return Iran to the roots of its Montazeri's resignation critical assessment of the revo­fundamentalist revolution. came after Khomeini sent him lution's accomplishments. 

H·Y· P·N·O·T·I·S·T 
Thursday, March 30 
Students provide the entertainment this week as they perform humorous antics under Jim Wand's hypnosis. Don't miss this show-you may even be picked to be hypnotized!~_____ 
Show starts at 9:00 PM. 


~ -------~ 


' 
,. 
page 10 
viewp10int 
Wednesday, Macch 29, 1989 

Education leads us t~o the good life 
Do we know why we come to get a university education? Too many of us are under the illusion that the purpose of our four years of college is to land a good-paying job after graduation. 
Metanoia 
It is not surprising, therefore, that from the very first weeks in school we take it as natural that we must live schizophrenic lives. On the one hand, we have our tedious academic obliga­tions, and, on the other hand, we have our social life. They never intersect and nobody thinks they should. We go to classes to get respectable enough credentials to get a good job. We tell ourselves that the sacrifice is worth it. But our "education" is seen as a sacrifice, and we end up looking for ex­citement and fulfillment not in our academics but in our social life. 
Most of us think that's the way it is supposed to be. In that way, we spend four years of our lives (and sometimes five) living only part-time, living despite being students ... and suffering for it. 
But this is all absurd. What we do in class should not be divorced from our lives; it should not stand apart from what is exciting and fulfilling to us. What we do in class should not end in class, and what we do in our social life should extend into our classrooms. To think otherwise is to be under the illu­sion that the goal of an educaton is to get a job. 
Education is not the same as job training. An education is directed towards finding out what we want to do with our lives. The Greeks fully realized that to "Know Thyself" is the indispensable requirement for a worthwhile life. To know oneself is in fact the essential purpose of an educa­tion. But in our society we are forget­ting that, and in the process, we are losing a sense of our own selves. 
Ifyou don't think so, try telling people you want to spend four years of your life "finding yourself." They will laugh at you. Not only will you sound hope­lessly naive and stupid, but worst of all, you will be considered wasteful and im­practical. Most likely the kind (and of­ten patronizing) advice you will get is, "first make a living and then you can spend your time 'finding out who you are'." 
But how can we choose how "to make a living" if we don't know what we want? And how can we know what we want unless we take time to find out? 
What we are told to choose, while it may be very good for those that tell us to choose it, may in fact not be so good for us. But we are told so many times what we ought to want, that we end up believing that we ourselves actually want it. 
The sad fact is that we spend little (if any) time ever questioning what we are given, because we are too busy trying to fit in, too busy keeping pace with a set of values we have never had a chance to choose. Before we know it, we find ourselves in a place without any means to go back. 
In failing to distinguish between our education and our job training, we are becoming the victims of a system that robs us of our own identity. 
To see our lives at school as divided into two distinct and incompatible sides is a sign of the spiritual fragmentation that is rampant in our society. We are no longer in touch with who we are be­cause we never give ourselves the time to find out who we are. 
Throughout history peoples have recognized deep within the human con­sciousness a directive, a sort of natural compass that shows us our way. Everybody has it. Some hear it as a voice that speaks to them. Socrates is said to have had one. All the prophets heard it. .. To be able to hear that voice is what people refer to when they speak of "finding one's vocation." 
The confusion of seeing our education as aimed at getting a job instead of at self-knowledge shows a forgetfulness of the importance of finding our vocation. In the end, such forgetfulness leads to the incapacity to listen to the voices within. 
The split between our social life and our academic life is the result of the pernicious influence of a system that places more value in efficiency and pro­ductivity than on self-understanding. It is the result of forgetting that finding out what we want to do with our lives is more important than fitting into a given system, no matter how successful we may be told it is. 
To belong to a university community is to belong to a community that is in­spired by the goal of wisdom. A univer­sity should foster our personal growth 
rather than the pursuit of external suc­lows us to live a good life. cess, for in the end, external success is We can't begin to live well, or "suc­empt) if it is not rooted in a clear knowl­cessfully" until we have helped our­
edge of one's self. selves out of our own blindness, our own 
To be educated is to have discovered prejudices, and our own misun­our o•vn voice and to live a life that derstandings. But we can't do that un­follows its command. It is to align our less we make the effort to understand lives ·vith a single principle, a single first who we are, what we believe, and and o· rerarching goal. That discovery why. That above all is the reason we is what makes us able to see beyond come to the university. conve:1tions, to live according to our Victor J. Krebs is a graduate student own c mvictions and to recognize that in philosophy and a regular Viewpoint right in others. It is, in short, what al-columnist. 
[ __P_.o_._B_o_x_a__ 
or she budgets for 'shoplifters' and I
Favoring prisoners 
think we would really be shocked if we"iolates justice saw some statistics. · Introducing a system of 'work for Dear j~ditor: your living' and restitution for con­
I would really like to stir up an issue victed criminals would be a healthy and that h<.s been sidestepped, mocked, and positive start. Although there aren't too abused but never really tackled. It is many new railroads and highways left persor al safety and security or the lack to be laid anymore, there are plenty of of the :;arne. We are finally being made inner-city ghettos that could be worked aware of this problem, and steps are on. I'd rather have my taxes spent on being l aken by governments across the having prisoners occupy their time nation But, unfortunately, it is the constructively--primarily returning to symptrJms that are being attacked and the community the 'peace of mind' that not th( causes. they stole from it--than sitting idly in 
In Washington, D.C. we read about a cells. proposed curfew for teenagers, and, in This may unfortunately be an unfor­Califm nia, we read about the banning giving and selfish attitude, but it is time of sal«~s of any automatic weapons. that "we the people" demand from gov­Here <re two classic cases where re­ernment that they do what they are sup­sponsible and law-abiding folk are posed to--provide us with justice and having their freedoms taken away for security. the sal:e of criminals who are not be­Joe Daniel hind bars. Off-campus 
This really seems to be the root of March 21, 1989 the prcblem. The ACLU and other pris­oner rights activist groups have so strengl hened the rights of criminals Article on Korea that it is difficult for "we the people" to put lffenders behind bars; "we the enlightens reader people" are suddenly being made aware that offenders ate being let out Dear Editor: on "fmloughs." Not only do we pay for I found Chang-Hu Won's article on their r >om and board at penitentiary Korea very informative and entertain­centen , but we let them out to terrorize ing. I'm glad that he took the time to us on weekends (please refer to the give us a personal reflection of his own recent Lisa Bianco case and the well­country. It was a nice look into a dif­publici.~ed Willie Horton case). ferent culture and that's what this year 
The l:tck of punishment for criminals of Cultural Diversity is all about. Thank has got to a state where it almost seems you for taking the time to share your that it is a common attitude, "if you story with us, Mr. Won. can ge away with it, do it--and who Diana Fuentes cares if you get caught." Any store Farley Hall managr~r will let us know how much he March 23, 1989 
Doonesbury 
Yts, MA:4M. 
AND 80TH  8/U-ONL-Y HAS  
81U.ANI?  AI!JS-R&IATW  
RANVYARt  C:OMPL£X, BUT  
INTHeHOS·  I<ANVYHAS FUU­ 
"  PIT.4L-WITH  8LOWN KAPOS/'5  

I THINK YOU'll--FINO THATA/OS IAJIU 8~ 7H8 ONL-Y TOPIC AT YOUR 7DWN Met3T!NG 7VI?AY. P&OPt£ IAJIU-IA/ANT YOUR. V!&NSONWER.Y­THIN6, F!?{)M Ht.4J,THCM&t1E!5 TO C:ONR!?&NTIAUTY 155U/3 7V 
RE-UCCNS!NG TH/5 8ATH 
HOUS/35? YOU 
MeAN, THeY'RE 
ClOSE.{)~ 
UH: .. Y8S, MA!QM. THI5Y 
HAVe 81515N 
FOR 50MI5 TIM/5. ~ 
Garry Trudeau 

8UT I THOUGHT I &TT8R. GOO/? HYGieNe GUTH/.3 a.t4SMACTL-Y BR.J8P/NG TH!3155Ue! 800/<S ... 
\ 

Quote of the Day 
'We say that God and the imagination are one... How high that highest candle lights the dark.' 
-Wallace Stevens 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 Editor-in-Ch. ef.... ................................Chris Donnelly Business Manager ............................... Rich Iannelli Managing f. -:litor .................................. Regis Coccia Advertising Manager .............................. t.~olly Kill€'n Exec. News Editor ...................... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Design Manager ......... Shaonon Roach Viewpoint Eo fitor .................................... Dave Bruner Production Manager ............................ Alison Cocks 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Sports Edito • ....................................... Theresa. Kelly Systems Manager ..............................Mark ~1\vr>nt 
Notre Dam!: du Lac and Saint M::'}''s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Accent Edit< r ........................................... John Blasi OTS Director ................................... Angela Bellanca 
:he administrdtion of either institu:io.~. The news is repvoied as accurately and objectively as 
Photo Editor ............................................. Eric Bailey
possrole. Unsigned edi:orials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. C!>mmen!aries. letters and the lnsida Column present the views of their authors. Column sp~.:e i;; 2'-'ailable to ail members of the community and the free expression of varying 
Founded November 3,1966 
opinions on -:ampus. ~'l;cugh letters. is encouraged. 
-

l 
I
-...

Accent I 
Wednesday, March 29, 1989 
page 11 


MARTY STRASEN accent writer 
F 
rom the mo­ment the stu­dent walked through the door of Notre 
Dame's North 
Dining Hall, he knew the gentleman sport­ing the infectious smile under his graying moustache was not going to punch his ID into the machine without a greet­ing. 
Most employees of Univer­
sity Food Services do not 
have much to say to a student 
beyond the customary 
"Thank you." 
Then again, no one has ever 
accused John Burkus of being 
customary. 
"Look at this good-looking 
devil," Burkus exclaimed as 
the student stepped toward 
him with his outstretched ID. 
"What's up, stud?" the 
young man responded. 
Students do not usually 
refer to their elders as 
"stud," but in this case it 
seemed appropriate. 
"Did you go skinny-dipping 
last night with all of those 
ladies you were telling me 
about?" Burkus asked. "Did 
any of them talk dirty to you? 
Let me know next time and 
I'll bring my camera and 
flash bulb." 
Laughing, the student 
headed for breakfast. 
Burkus has been making 
people laugh ever since he 
started checking student ID's at North Dining Hall in No-· vember. He performs his routines from a seat near the entrance, usually in the pres­ence of a fellow worker and always with a smile. Often 
Calvin and Hobbes 
CAMPUS PERSONALITY 
Burkus leaves 
'em laugh,ng 
I'm happy. You know the saying, 'Don't worry, be happy'. That's my motto. 
the other checker is a wo­
man, but that does not stop 
Burkus from slipping in a 
dirty joke every now and 
then. 
He says he's giving up Loni 
Anderson for Lent. And 
watermelons. 
"I'm happy," says the 64­year-old South Bend native. "You know the saying, 'Don't worry, be happy.' That's my 
motto. Me and George Bush 
are the only ones left like 
that." 
At least among the ID 
checkers, Burkus has no 
rival. While many of the 
others punch cards into the 
machines like assembly-line 
robots, Burkus adds a new 
twist to an otherwise confined 
job. 
"My philosophy is that en­
thusiasm is contagious," says 
Burkus. "I get them laughing, 
and hopefully they'll feel bet­
ter all day." 
"The students all love 
him," adds Gloria Stampe, 
who works alongside Burkus 
once a week and has sat 
through more than her share 
of joviality. "If he's not here, 
they'll say, 'Where's the 
crazy man?' or 'Where's the 
funny man?' He's fun to work 
with." 
Burkus worked in the food sales and management busi­ness before his recent retire­ment. But retirement was too quiet for him. After all, what's a comedian without an audience? 
Burkus says most of his best lines pop into his head spontaneously, but every now and then a student will beat him to a punch line. 
"You know why a blind man won't go sky diving?" he asks. 
"It scares the dog to death," someone blurts out, spoiling some of the glory for Burkus. 
"You can't win them all," he admits. 
But if Burkus is out to make students smile, he wins most of them. Even when they do know the punch lines. 
Bill Watterson 

ot-t£. DROWt,U:J) 'N®'I\, A. PIEct. 
o~ FUZL~ ll~l 
1\11>.\ lOOKS LIK£ 
1>. 13\X:.. 1>. U'fi:: 
t>.NT, M-ID 1\ 

GIT 1>.\"o\ "F~." miJELOI'E.
511\"''51\ED m. 
ABC's nevv con1edy one in a blue n1oon 
T 
he good things in life chance to live out her don't come often. The dream of being a writer, as man in the Santa Claus she explains to her father suit, for example, works all in a very moving scene. In year long preparing to order to get the job, she widen the smiles of must first write a story children on one single day about Chicagoans' prefer­each year. Good television ence in nacho chips. The shows come along once in topic is obviously flat, a blue moon as well. These which brings about a per­rare species are anything iod of writers block. but trite, anything but Marty offers Hannah cliche, and anything but some help by suggesting ordinary. A blue moon has they ask each other ques­finally come in the form of tions they've always pon­"Anything But Love." dered. Hannah asks, "What 
JOE BUCOLO 
To Be Continued ... ·. 
ABC's newest situation about Sunday papers on comedy airs on Tuesdays Saturday? I mean, do they at 9:30p.m. "Anything But really know?" This funny Love" is a genuinely funny process clears Hannah's show starring Jamie Lee mind and she is able to Curtis as Hannah Miller write. and Richard Lewis as It's precisely this very Marty Gold. These two are personal, very human joined by some not-so­aspect of the show that famous but just as talented makes it anything but un­regulars portraying the real. These are characters characters of Pamela about whom audiences Finch (Sandy Faison), really care. Hannah and Jules (Richard Frank), and Marty have (and admit Norman Keil (Louis Gram­having) faults, and they balvo). All work for a work together to get Chicago magazine called through the rough times. "Chicago Monthly." 
The characters give this The best aspect of the star comedy its twinkle. show is its comedy. For a Pamela is, as Marty sug­change, the writing in­gests, the expert on volved with this series is "everything you wanted to genuinely funny. Viewers know about nothing." need not force any laughs Marty, who is responsible while watching this show. for getting Hannah a job at In a chair next to Marty, the magazine, is afraid of Hannah is writing a letter. flying. In one airplane Marty leans over to read scene, he tells Hannah: it, explaining, "I can read "I'm trying to forget the upside down. It's the only 
fact that five million way I could learn He­pounds of metal are brew." Jokes likes these slightly heavier than air." are intelligent and sin­
Jules is another reporter cerely witty, a welcome for the publication; he is and refreshing change less apt to take Pamela's from the humor on other constant ribbing. He shows. proclaims, "For the "Anything But Love" is hundredth time, Mrs. ABC's newest and perhaps Finch, I am not gay. But funniest situation comedy. looking at you does make The series presents real me wonder why." characters who are witty. 
Hannah was a school "Anything But Love" is teacher prior to taking her everything America could new job, and she wants the want in a comedy. 
Jamie Lee Curtis and Richard Lewis star In the comedy series, "Anything But Love" on the ABC Television Network on Tuesdays. 

.......... 
-
..... 


page 12 
Items 
continued from page 20 
pursue the position at Notre Dame. 
"I was contacted by the ath­letic department, and they in­dicated they wanted to upgrade the program and wanted it at a similar level as all the other athletic programs at Notre Dame," said Thomas. 
Mter getting permission from the Elcona board of direc­tors to accept Notre Dame's of­fer: Thomas wasted no time making an impact. 
The Irish won the Midwest Collegiate Conference champi­onship during the fall season, and Thomas earned Coach of the Year honors. 
"I'd only been there three months," Thomas joked. "Lou Holtz and Ara Parseghian probably can't understand that. It took them a few years to become Coach of the Year." 
Thomas also has upgraded the spring schedule. Notre Dame has won its last 22 dual 
George Thomas 
matches by playing lesser op­
ponents in previous seasons, 
but this year's Irish schedule 
includes only tournaments. 
"The schedule's very 
strong," said Tho~Uas. "We've 
eliminated all the small 
schools. We're playing strictly 
tournaments with Big Ten 
schools and the strong schools 
in the Midwest. 
"We're not going to build a 
dynasty, but we'll have kids who can play the game," con­tinued Thomas. "The kids are going to learn how to win at golf. They're learning the right system. They're learning to create a swinging motion, and that's all you have to do. It's 
-----~~----~--­
The Observer 

the common denominator in golf." 
Thomas certainly must know a thing or two about the sport. He led the 1981 U.S. Senior Open for 53 holes before Arnold Palmer caught up to him, and he has qualified for two U.S. Opens. During his first U.S. Open competition, in 1965, he became the subject of an 11­page Sports Illustrated article by John Underwood entitled "A Nobody at the Open." 
"It was very exciting," said Thomas. "They picked the in­dividual in the U.S. Open with the least amount of tour expe­rience. Very few club pros make the U.S. Open 
Notre Dame seniors Doug Giorgio and Pat Mohan will at­tempt to duplicate their coac­h's feat when they try qualifying this spring for the 
U.S. Open. 

"I'm going to try to get them to beat me," said Thomas, who still can shoot even par. "When they can do that, I know they're going to be good players." 
Wednesday, March 29, 1989 

Court sends America's Cup from USA to New Zealand 
Associated Press 

SAN DIEGO--Because spirit was more important than speed, New Zealand is the new home of yachting's America's Cup. 
In the first disqualification in the Cup's 138-year history, a New York judge ruled Tuesday that the San Diego Yacht Club flouted rules in the two-race sweep last Sep­tember by sailing a catamaran while the New Zealanders used a tradi­tional monohulled craft. 
"San Diego violated the spirit of the deed of gift," State Supreme Court Justice Carmen Ciparick said. 
Even she admitted the for­feiture was a "drastic rem­edy," but said she had no al­ternative. She called the race a "gross mismatch." 
"Obviously, we're more 
than a little surprised," said 
Tom Mitchell, a spokesman 
for the America's Cup Or­
ganizing Committee. "We 
are holding out the possibil­
ity of an appeal. But we can't 
comment until we see the 
decision." 
Until that decision is 
made, the Cup will remain 
with the yacht club, said 
SDYC commodore Patrick 
Goddard. 
"If the Cup goes to New Zealand, the commodore of San Diego Yacht Club will personally deliver it," God­
dard said. 
Tom Ehman, executive vice president of the or­ganizing committee, said San Diego defense officials "will do what's best for the Cup.' 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 
3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The 
charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES  LOST; Black suede San "rancisco Bay hat with brown leather trim. Lost Saturday 18th. Very recognizable. REWARD of­fered. Call Sara at 4825  PERSONALS  HI again, AG. SMC MANAGEMENT CLUB  Hi Marilyn!! Me ....... .. ...... .......... ······· ..................... SCAP .... The Word of the Future!!! Use  Happy Birthday to everyone who was born on this glonous day. It is, after all, Wednesday.  
--­ TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK BOB Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 233-2342  ·························· Lost: Brown leather jacket at NAZZ. Last name MRUZ in back. Please call Lisa x1338. FOR RENT  3 seconds away and you'd better not have a headache!!!!!l!! hlag SUMMER JOBS All LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN$' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  PRESENTS DOUG MOSELL "THE ART OF LEADERSHIP" MARCH 29 HAGGAR PARLOR, 6 PM DESPERATELY SEEKING DRUMMER FOR BAND NO METAL CALlx1749  it NOW!! H~y;T~-;~:E;iiz~beth,Peggy-Did you have a great time in Chicago. later.Barney,JEPO .. .. sEAN &rHE suN i<iNG:s Live at Mateo's Subs Wednesday Night 90 cent Imports SEAN & THE SUN KINGS  Pete and laura Thanks for the tour of the great Gateway City. I was most Impressed. When I qrow up I want a chest just like REGIS from an envious admirer  
NEAR LAKE PLACID  
Wordprocessfng-Typtng 272-8827 Photographer& needed AIIUiteu""rolesstonat lor Australia. National Institute of Exploration Juna 20-July 13. Coat $3,300 Calf Bruce 219-733-2170 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. Local Not-For-Profit Organization has Openings lor Qualified Persons in our Residential Homes. Residential Assis­ Anyone wanting to rant a Turtle Creek Apartment during the summer months contact llu at # 4886. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219-291-7153. NICE FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. 287-6389, 683-8889. MALE GRADUATES FURNISHED ROOMS, AIR, KITCHEN, FRIDGE. 5 MINS. N. CAMPUS. 272­0615.  CALL 1-800-343-8373 ADOPTION-Caring, financially secure couple of Irish and Swedish ancestry wish to love, cherish, and raise your new­born child. Legal and confidential. Please call Linda and Craig COLLECT: 212-877­3574 ...................................................... ADOPT: Happily married, professional couple wishes to provide wonderful home, secure future, much love for white newborn. Legal. Expenses paid. Call us collect 212-517-2696. COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: Out­ HAITI Volunteer in Haiti May-June t 989 Meeting today-4 pm CSC or call CSC x7943 ...... ······ ... ···•···· Thank you Sacred Heart of Jesus, Blessed Mother, Saint Jude, and Saint Joseph for prayers answered. The states of New York, New Jersey, Michigan, and Massachusetts are IN STEP  ·· ·c:~~~~~~~h ·fi~;,· ;;~~~~i~~~; ···· presents Woody Allen's DON'T DRINK THE WATER Thursday-Fnday-Saturday Library Auditorium 7:30p.m. Admission: FREE Top Ten Easter Break Quotes for those of us who stayed 10 "My God, I said 'Rad'!" 9 'What are these white things on the ground? 8 "Rani, what did you do to your chin?" 7 "Paul, you're a dink" 6 "I wanna play catch" 5 "Look at your book,  Dave Bruner: Heft me Heft me Teach me LUV A secret Admirer Be Scared! It's almost Kerri Qwens·s birthday ANYONE, ANYONE? Lost my key (231) on St. Pat's Day at St. Andrew's church. Please call x2866 if you found it!  
tant&'Substitutes Provides care and treat­ment for Developmentally Disabled aduHs. Flexible work schedules. Valid Driver's License and Transportation needed. Full-time, Part-time, and Sub­stitutes. Reply to: LOGAN 1235 N. Eddy, P.O. Box 1049. South Bend, IN, 46624, 289-4831 SOPHOMORES !!! Are you ready lor advanced registra­tion on April 20th? Have you selected your major? If you answered no, consider register­ WANTED CAMP MILLHOUSE NEEDS WATERFRONT, NATURALIST, FINE ARTS, MALE COUNSELORS. ROOM, BOARD, INSURANCE, TIME OFF, COMPETITIVE PAY. JUNE 9-AUGUST 19. LEA 234-1169. One way ride offered to Philly Lv Fri :Y.l1. Ashok 234 5782  standing brotheo'slster sports camps on largest lake In New England near "ON GOLDEN POND" site seek stall. All TRAVEL PAID. Call Collect: Roblndel (girls) 215-884-3326, Wlnaukee (boys) 203-227-4387 or see us on Thurs., Mar. 30, 10:30 AM-2PM at LaFortune. Ramada Inn of Elkhart hils rooms lor Graduation weekend. Minimum stay 2 nights with $100 deposit per room. Send letter to 3011 Belvedere Rd., Elkhart, IN 46514 or Call 219-262-1581.  ALL RIGHT--IT IS THE BEGINNING OF THE END!I Sandy, Rose. & Mimi, only "53" days left to fully extend our Studen­thood!l This means no more detox, no more books and the lack of monetary funds! As they say in the movies: "A pint of ale, fresh horses for the men--Tonight we ride!l" Welcome back to the State of Confusion! Love, rozel Tricia's gonna be 231 EX NO STAFFER & SPOUSE DESIRE FURNISHED APARTMENT FOR SUM­ not at the game!" 4 "H-0-R-" 3 "At a Catholic institution? on easter Sunday?" 2 "Let's go to Michigan" 1 "It's not THAT hot" To Stanford hall's Rick Astley: I danced with you at the post-St. Pat's Day Dance in a room with a German flag on the wall. Unfortun-ately, I do not remember your name but I would like to dance with you again. What floor do you live on? -Forgetlul  MOLLY AND PHIL'S TOP 10 EASTER ABSECONISMS: 10. Weeeee! 9. WaWa squirt bottles hi Llncolns 8.Nana: "I better shut up!" 7. Krlssy: "I'm gonna wake em up!" 6. Herb: "I can't believe I flew a Democrat home!" 5. Susan: "Philip, let me fix you some eggs' 4. Phil: "Pepper, you're a mess" 3. Molly: "What a great ride" 2. Phil and Molly: "We need to make a deci­sion here"(We made the wrong one) 1. Do you work here? Oh, you look like a Trump.  
- Ing lor the CareerM.ajor Decision Making Workshop starting the week of April 3rd at the University Counsel­Ing Center. Call 239-7336 to register or tor more Information FREDDY JONES FREDDY JONES PLAYS FOR M.S. SOCIETY BRIDGET MCGUIRE'S THUR. 10:00 RAFFLE RAFFLE RAFFLE ' LOST/FOUND I LOST LOST LOST BUILDING STRUC­TURES TEXTBOOK GREY AND WHITE COVER HARDBOUND PLEASE CALL TERRY X2706 I REALLY NEED THIS BOOK!!!  Is anyone looking for a roommate or apartment in CHICAGO this SUMMER? So am I! Call Dan at x4115. NEED BAND TO PLAY CARIB­BEAN.flEGGAE MUSIC,FRI & SAT NIGHTS THRU APRIL CAPT ALEXAN­DER'S WARF. FOR MORE INFO.,CALL 234-4477. FOR SALE GOVERNMENT HOMES! From $1.00 (U Repair). Foreclosures, Repos, Tax Delinquent Properties. Now Selling This Areal Call (Refl{_n4able 1-315-733­6084 Ext G2382H For Currant Listings!  HOPING TO ADOPT We're a happily married, financially secure couple with a beautiful home and lots of love to share with much­wanted baby_ II you ara pregnant and considering placing your baby lor adoption, please call us. We can help you, and you can help us make our lives complete. Expenses paid. Con­fidential, legal. Call Deborah and David collect day or night at 312'935­4088, or call our counselor collect at 312<280-8744. SMC ND ROME SUMMER PROGRAM FOR ALL COLLEGE STUDENTS. JUNE 18-JULY 17. TRAVEL IN PARIS, GER­MANY, SWITZ. AND ITALY. COURSES IN HISTORY AND LANGUAGE. MEETING APRIL 3 IN ROOM 349 MADELEVA. SLIDES, PIZZA, ETC. FOR INFO CALL PROF. A.A. BLACK AT 284­ MER. REPLY 135 LAKEVIEW DR., MULBERRY, Fl 33860. STATE RENT REQUIRED INCLUDING UTILITIES. THURSDAY NIGHT AT MURPHY'S ( FORMERLY CHIP'S ) BARBARA BILLINGSLY'S OINTMENT (FORMERLY BLANK GENERATION) with special guest, opening band, The GROOVE ( yea woo-woo) 10:00 to close barbara bltllngsly's ointment Thursday at Murphy's 10:00 to close or until the Groove shows up MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS SOCIETY and BRIDGET MCGUIRE'S PRESENTS  MR. GREEN-HONESTLY????? OR IS IT A JOKE? TELL ME MORE. ..-G TO MIKE, THE ST.ED'ER IN 323, HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY. WE LOVE YOU, MOM, DAD, NANCY, SCOTT, GEREMY, LAURA, JOHN, MAUREEN, GARY, LEE, BUD, DILLON & TEASER! Going to DAYTON, Ohio??? I need a ride there this weekend. Will help with expenses... Call Eileen 3897 SKYDIVING BEGINS THIS WEEKEND CALL DEAN 287-3024 WE ARE ONE WORLD NOOMC CHARITY BALL w1th THE GROOVE  PJK NEXT POSITION PLEASE' MAM oo••••••••••••••oo••••••••••oo••••oo•••<(O••••••••••••••••oooooo APPLICATIONS ARE NOW BEING AC­CEPTED FOR FRESHMAN ORIENTA­TION EXECUTIVE OOMMITIEE '89. Please pick them up m the secretary's ~office, 2nd floor of LaFortune. Applications due April 3rd, 5 p.m. .........:i. ... Just when you thought h was sale to go on vacation...  
LOST  IN  ALUMNI  HALL  AT  IRISH  4460 OR 272-3726.  FREDDY JONES FREDDY JONES  South Dining Hall  
WAKE: small black purse with embroidered flowers. Keys inside # 224, no ID. PLEASE call 4228 at NO.  'f'.~.'W R9(}6 Motorcycle. 1976. 6 thousand orig. miles, excellent condition, brown, stock, $2200. 872-7315.  AN TOSTAL'B9 GENERAL MEETING ND LIBRARY AUDITORIUM SUNDAY, APRIL 2 9 P.M.  THURSDAY THURSDAY THURSDAY FREDDY JONES FREDDY JONES FREDDY JONES FREDDY ~ONES  booths from around the worla semi-formal tix at LaFortune info desk $1 0 couple $6 single  DON'T DRINK THE WATER March 30, 3J_,, April 1 7:3¢  
LOST: Medium blue rectangular suit­case during Spring Braak. If any In­formation, call 309-837-7567 or 309­837-1479 and ask lor Mary Beth. Reward & will pick up. LOST: BLUE POLO JACKET AT CCE .BUILDING SAT. 3118. PLEASE CALL, I NEED MY KEYS! THANKS. 284-4349.  FOR SALE: BICYCLE($55) fridge($20) sew1ng machine($12) easy chair($7) Call 239-7749 TICKETS l  ROBERT V., WE "GOTCHA" TOO!!! HERE'S TO A VERY HAPPY 22nd B-DAY LOVE, HUGS AND KISSES! YOUR "SWEET SIBLING" AND SGROIA XOXO HAVE A BALL AT THE CHARITY BALL  FREDDY JONES AT BRIDGET MCGUIRE'S THURS. 10:00 FOR MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS RAFFLE RAFFLE RAFFFLE RAFFLE ... .. . ..................................... SPARKY, HELP!!! I can't lind the Joeys anywhere. II they're with you please feed them and mail them back to me. Thank  HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS SUM­MER (OR ANYTIME)? Jet there from Chicago Detroit, or Cleveland lor no more than $229, or from the East Coast for no more than $160 with AIR­HITCH(TM), as reported In Consumer Repons, NY Times, Let's Go, and na­ Libracy JAVIER JUNCO JAVIER JdNCO JAVIER JUNCO HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO MY FAVORITE PUERTO RICANI! XO XO XO XO XO XO XO XO KG  
LOST: GOLD SIGNET (DMK) RING AT OR NEAR SENIOR BAR THURSDAY, MAR. 16. PLEASE CALL DAWN 284­4349. LOST black. stylish Ray-Bans in Senior Bar Sat. 3118. Not only were they expen­sive, but they were a gift from my room­mates giving them high sentimental value. Please call Colleen 2682 or Mary 1704. ....-~·-· ......................................................  I need Grad. tix 288-4160 MONEY MONEY MONEY and I can make it worth your while, call Dan at 3365 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED GRADUATION TIX! WILL PAY$$. CALL 277-9750.  Fri., March 31 .............................LOCAL SWIMMING POOL COMPANY HAS OPENINGS FOR FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES OUTSIDE WORK, GREAT EARNING POTENTIAL. CALL SERGIO'S SUNGOD POOLS, 287-9283 FOR APPT. T~··ih~ p~;~~~-·;.;hose car I backed into on March 17 call Bill x 2346  you for a wonderful visit. I miss you. Love, MEA P~rty w1 Th~ Backstreet Blues Band TONIGHT! at McCormick's Coney Is. .................... I'll take 'Farm Animals' for $200, Alex.-­·And it's a Daily Double! That's r ght. Not only is this Z BALLS WEEK JUt, as a special bonus, we've also de• tared it HALE COW WEEK Ill So call lohn at 341 0 and make strange animal 1•oises. And ask Z why Mom got  tional network morning shows. For details, call 212-884-2000 or write: AIRHITCH(TM) 2901 Broadway, Suite 100G, NY, NY 10025.. BADINITES UNITE!!!!! THERE'S SOMETHING GOING ON NEXT TO THE BOOKSTORE!!!!!!!  DAN P. # 42, Good luck at your game tonight. I'll be watching! Love, 'Your Miami Fan' SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL LAST CHANCE TO BUY BIDS Wed. April 5, 7-9pm in LaFortune Get measured for tux, arrange table seating, and room reservations.  
LOST: Long grayisMllack Cassidy coat  rid of th ' cat.  
with speckled colors. Lost on Saturday  WE NEED A MIRACLE!I!II AT LEAST 2  GET THE CAREER EDGE! Understand  Bodacious:  SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS  
the 18\h. Contams ID and other valu­ TIX WANTED FOR SHOWS IN LOUIS­ to day's economic superpower. Register  \ ole MARCIE and JULIE  I am breathless with anticipation of the  BUY SR. FORMAL BIOS APRIL 5TH  
ables.  REWARD offered. Call Sara at  VILLE AND CINCINNATI. CALL DAN OR  for JAPANESE language stuy at ND this  B.l'. Co-Presidents for 89-90  day 1hold you in a passionate embrace,  LAFORTUNE 7-9PM  
4825.  CHRIS AT 4079 OR LEAVE MESSAGE.  summer! WE ARE! L. M. & S. H.  The FU ~ and TRADITION continue!!!  and choke the life out of you!  



Sports Wednesday 
Wednesday, March 29, 1989 
page 13 

Sports Lists NB~ S~nclings 
Eastern Conference Atlantic Division 
w L Pet. GB New York 45 24 .652 Philadelphia 37 31 .544 7.5 Boston 35 32 .522 9 
Washington 32 35 .478 12 New Jersey 23 46 .333 22 Charlotte 17 52 .246 28 
Central Division y-Detroit 50 17 .746 y-Cieveland 49 20 .710 2 Milwaukee 44 23 .657 6 Chicago 41 26 .612 9 Atlanta 40 27 .597 10 Indiana 21 47 .309 29.5 
Western Conference Midwest Division 
w L Pet. GB Utah 43 25 .632 Houston 37 30 .552 5.5 Denver 37 31 .544 6 Dallas 31 37 .456 12 San Antonio 18 50 .265 25
A tournament record --672 teams participating Miami 13 55 .191 30 
Pacific Division y-L.A. Lakers 47 20 .701
• Hall of Fame Game Sunday, April 2 Phoenix 44 25 .638 4 Seattle 39 28 .582 8 Golden State 38 30 .559 9.5 Portland 32 35 .478 15 
Lou Holtz ~ 
Tony Rice 
Sacramento 20 48 .294 27.5 
Monk Malloy vs. The Primitive Bushmen L.A. Clippers 14 53 .209 33 
y-clinched playoff berth 

Dick Rosenthal 
Bubba Cunningham Baseball 
NCAA Tournament 
The Final Four 
Illinois Duke (31-4) (28-7) 

Sat., April1 Sat., 
April1 
1/2 hr after 1st 
5:43p.m.
Monday,
game 
April3 8:13p.m. 
Seton Hall (30-6) Michi an 
(28-7) 

NCAA Champion 
Scoreboard 
Results for Mar. 22-28 Men's tennis (15-8) 
Miami (Ohio) 5, Notre Dame 4 American League

• Play begins Mon. April 3@ 4:00, and continues National League Notre Dame 6, Northern Illinois 3 
w L Pet.

w L Pet. 
Notre Dame 9, Indiana State 0

Toronto 17 8 .680
through the championships An Tostal Weekend San Diego 16 7 .696 
Cleveland 16 9 .640
St. Louis 15 7 .682 
Minnesota 15 9 .625 Baseball (12·5)
• Games played regardless of weather conditions Cincinnati 13 11 .542 
Texas 13 10 .565 Notre Dame 15, Butler 1 
• 
Pittsburgh 14 12 .538 Los Angeles 14 13 .519 
Kansas City 13 10 .565 Notre Dame 12, Butler 3 
32 seeded teams Oakland 12 12 .500
Atlanta 11 11 .500 Indiana 10, Notre Dame 0 
• 
California 12 12 .500
San Francisco 12 13 .480 
New York 13 13 .500
Montreal 10 12 .455 Lacrosse (2-3)
Milwaukee 14 15 .483
New York 11 14 .440 
Notre Dame 17, Hartford 4Baltimore 11 13 .458

Philadelphia 8 14 .364 
Seattle 11 14 .440
SOURCE Mike Manning The Observer I Laura Stanton Houston 9 17 .346 
Chicago 14 18 .438 Women's tennis
Chicago 7 18 .280 
Detroit 10 14 .417 Notre Dame 7, Western Michigan 1 Boston 10 15 .400 
Women's basketball (21·11) 

~ 
Toledo 85, Notre Dame 62

Irish Baseball I NIT DePaul 77, Notre Dame 69 
Notre Dame 51, Richmond 46 

Through Monday QUARTERFINALS 
Women's softball (8~)

BATTER GP AB R H 2B 3B HR RBI BA SEMIFINALS St. John's 83, Ohio State 80 (OT) Notre Dame 1, St. Joseph's of Rennselaer 0 Dan Peltier. OF 17 64 22 28 10 1 3 17 .438 Monday's Results St. Louis 66, New Mexico 65 Notre Dame 3, St. Joseph's of Rennsetaer 2 
Jason Martinez. DH 10 17 4 7 2 0 1 5 .412 St. Louis 74, Michigan State 64 Michigan State 70, Villanova 63 Dayton 4, Notre Dame 2 James Sass. OF 17 49 9 17 3 2 2 22 .347 St. John's 76, Alabama-Birmingham 65 Alabama-Birmingham 85, Connecticut 79 Dayton 2, Notre Dame 1 (10 inn.) 
Paul Lange. DH 5 3 3 1 0 0 0 2 .333 
Notre Dame 4, Butler 0 

Pat Pesavento, SS 17 63 26 20 1 0 0 5 .317 SECOND ROUND Notre Dame 3, Butler 2 
St. John's 76, Oklahoma State 64 Joe Binkiewicz, 1 B 15 43 13 4 0 11 .302 WEDNESDAY'S GAMES New Mexico 88, Pepperdine 69 
Ed Lund, C 17 56 12 15 3 0 2 15 .268 Championship game Michigan State 79, Wichita State 67 Frank Jacobs. DH 16 48 9 11 2 0 1 14 .22g St. Louis vs. St. John's St. Louis 73, Wisconsin 68 Pat Eilers. OF 15 23 5 5 2 0 0 4 .217 Alabama-Birmingham 64, Richmond 61 
8 0 NHL Standings· 
Wales Conference Craig Counsell, OF 15 37 12 8 2 0 0 9 .216 Villanova 76, Penn State 67 Adams Division 
Connecticut 73, California 72 w L T GF GA Pis.
Consolation game

Mike Coss. 3B 15 42 8 9 2 0 0 2 .214 Ohio State 85, Nebraska 74 y-Montreal 52 18 8 309 214 112 x·Boston 35 29 14 281 250 84
Michigan State vs. Alabama-Birmingham 
Cory Mee. 2B 11 19 3 4 0 0 0 1 .211 
x·Bulfalo 35 34 7 277 288 77Mike Moshier. 2B 16 36 1 7 0 0 0 6 .194 

x-Hartford 35 36 5 280 277 75Mike Rotkis, DH 10 11 1 2 0 0 0 1 .182 

Quebec 27 42 7 259 326 61 0 0 0 , Spar~ Calend~t:, Patrick Division 
Jon Baker 1 1 0 0 0 .000 y-Washing1on 40 26 10 287 238 90 Tom Murray 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 .000 x-Pittsburgh 38 32 7 331 333 83 
Home games in CAPS Men's golf at Purdue Spring Invitational x-N.Y. Rangers 301
Matt Krall, DH 7 9 0 0 0 0 1 .000 37 32 8 292 82 
Women's volleyball hosts Irish Coffee Classic x-Philadelphia 35 35 7 295 273 77Tom Allen. OF 7 10 0 0 0 0 1 .000 
Wednesday Women's track at Purdue Relays New Jersey 26 39 12 266 310 64 
Women's softball vs. WISCONSIN-GREEN N.Y. Islanders 25 46 5 246 309 55 BAY (2) NOTRE DAME 17 531 126 147 31 3 9 113 .277 Baseball vs. CHICAGO STATE at Coveleski 
OPPONENTS 17 520 90 155 29 6 2 77 .298 (2) 
Campbell Conference Lacrosse vs. AIR FORCE 
Smythe Dvlslon 
Sunday

Left on base: Notre Dame 133, Opponents 119 w L T GF GA Pis Thursday Fencing at NCAA Championships . y-Calgary 52 17 9 346 223 113 
Women's tennis vs. EASTERN MICHIGAN x-Los Angeles 39 31 6 360 323 84 x-Edmonton 37 33 8 318 300 82 
Men's and women's fencing at NCAA Cham­
Baseball at St. Louis (2)pionships in Evanston, Ill. 
x-Vancouver 33 36 8 241 237 74 

PITCHER GP GS IP H BB so ER W-L ERA Women's golf at Lady Greyhound Invitational Men's golf at Purdue Spring Invitational Winnipeg 25 40 11 292 344 61 
Brian Piotrowicz 6 5 29.7 29 13 9 7 2-2 2.12 Women's softball vs. McHENRY COLLEGE
in Indianapolis Norris Division Mike Coffey 11 0 19.3 19 9 15 5 2-0 2.33 (2) x-Detroit 33 32 12 306 304 78 Tom Gulka 3 0 5.0 9 2 2 2 0-0 3.60 Friday x-St. Louis 30 35 12 263 277 72 Tony Livorsi 9 0 15.3 16 4 6 8 1-0 4.70 Monday x-Minnesota 26 35 16 250 271 68
Women's softball vs. LOYOLA (2) Chicago 25 40 12 289 325 62
Brian Conway 4 3 16.0 15 7 12 9 2-1 5.06 Fencing at NCAA Championships
Fencing at NCAA Championships 
Toronto 27 44 6 250 333 60

Erik Madsen 7 5 25.7 34 12 16 15 3-1 5.26 Women's softball vs. SOUTHWESTERN 
x-clinched playoff berth Dan Marzec 3 MICHIGAN COLLEGE
1 9.0 13 5 6 7 1-0 7.00 
Saturday y-clinched division title Mike Passilla 4 3 12.7 15 3 6 10 1-1 7.11 Wednesday's games
Baseball at St. Louis (2)
Joe Binkiewicz 1 0 0.3 5 0 0 1 0-0 27.00 Quebec at Chicago
Lacrosse at Wooster 
N.Y. Rangers at Detroit NOTRE DAME 17 17 133.0 155 55 72 64 12-5 4.33 Fencing at NCAA Championships Tuesday Minnesota at Toronto 
OPPONENTS 17 17 1137.0147 107 113 100 5-12 6.57 Men's tennis at Ball State Men's tennis vs. PURDUE N.Y. Islanders at New Jersey Women's tennis vs. StU-EDWARDSVILLE Winnipeg at Los Angeles
Fencing at NCAA Championships Men's track at Georgetown Edmonton at VancouverSaves: Notre Dame 6 (Coffey 4, Gulka, Livorsi), Opponents 0 
JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND 1990 CHAIRPERSON 
now available in Office of 
St. Activities. Must be submitted 
by 5 pm. Friday, April 7th. 



r----------------­
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, March 29, 1989 
•

Sass, Irish face Chicago State 1n home opener 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
As the Notre Dame baseball team readies itself for the home-opener against Chicago State in a Coveleski Stadium doubleheader today at 5 p.m, it looks to rebound from Satur­day's 10-0 loss to Indiana. 
"Chicago State is a scrappy team," said Irish coach Pat Murphy. "They played us to one run in the fall, and we'll have our hands full on Wednes­day." 
One person who has been keeping the scorekeeper's hands full is senior James Sass, who stands as the leading RBI man for the Irish. 
Sass leads the Irish with 22 RBI in 17 games, having doubled his total for the season after his 4-for-6, 11 RBI perfor­mance including two grand slams against Butler on Thursday. His 22 RBI come from just 17 hits. 
Last year, in 55 games, Sass 
Butler 
continued from page 20 
earned the victory in the first game by blanking the Bulldogs for three innings. Freshman Tom Gulka made a strong ap­pearance by pitching the final three innings of the game, al­lowing one run. 
Freshman Brian Conway won the second game by pitch­ing six innings, allowing six hits and three runs 
"We're getting fairly consis­tent pitching," said Murphy. "We're not very talented in our pitching staff, but they're un­derstanding what it is to to be a college pitcher. They need to get that competitive edge back that they had in the beginning of the season." 
Against Indiana, the Irish indeed wished they l!!!d that competitive edge that could have put them in the game. After scoring 27 runs two days before, the Irish were blanked by the Hoosiers, mustering only four hits and committing four errors. 
Pitcher Erik Madsen (3-1) suffered his first loss of the season by allowing five hits and five runs (two earned) in three innings. 
"It's not that we hit the ball that much better against But­ler," said Murphy. "We pieced hits together against Butler, and at Indiana we hit the ball right at people. 
"Indiana is not out of our league," continued Murphy. "They're not 10 runs better than us, and we'll prove that at the end of the season. You can write that down as a predic­tion." 
EXTRA BASES: Outfielder Dan Peltier continues to lead the Irish in hitting, as he went 5-for-11 in the three games over break, including a 3-for-3 effort in the first game against But­ler. He now leads the team with 
a .438 batting average and a .766 slugging percentage. He also has reached base in all 17 games and has an on-base percentage of .526...Shortstop Pat Pesavento was a model of consistency in his 6-for-12 effort over the break, gathering two hits in each game and raising his average to .317. 
had 13 RBI and was without a home run. 
"It's amazing what one year of practice can do," said the Louisville, Ky., native. 
Sass played baseball in high school in Kentucky. When he applied to Notre Dame, he was not admitted, so he attended the University of Kentucky on a baseball scholarship. After switching to football and main­taining a respectable grade point average his freshman year at Kentucky, he was ac­cepted to Notre Dame as a transfer student his sophomore year. 
In his third season of football with the Irish, Sass suffered a torn cartilage that effectively ended his football career. After rehabilitation, Sass joined the baseball team right before the 1988 season began. 
"Last year Cfhe 1988 season), I did not have a chance to play in the fall at all," said Sass. "It was my first time back in baseball after a four-year layoff. I didn't have the confi­dence I needed, and I wasn't sure what I was doiing." 
His season probably suffered because of it. The6-1, 195-pound senior had only 13 RBI in 163 at bats, but still batted .301 and stole 16 bases. 
Sass is batting .347 this year with two home runs, 22 RBI and three doubles in 49 at bats. 
"It is remarkable what James Sass has done in baseball because of the four­year layoff," said Murphy. "He's a very good athelete, he knows baseball very well and he is coming into his own." 
Things were not always looking so rosy for Sass. Ear­lier in the season, he endured an 0-for-11 slump that included six consecutive strikeouts, four against Miami pitching ace Joe Grabe. 
Soon afterward, Murphy benched Sass for a game. When Sass resumed his starting job, he did not look back. 
Besides his recent outburst against Butler, Sass has had other explosive games. In Notre Dame's 12-9 victory over Texas, Sass hit a bases-loaded triple that gave the Irish the lead for good. Against Pit­tsburgh, Sass w~nt 3-for-4 with a triple and four RBI. 
"I sure hope that James Sass realizes the type of player he can be if he works between now and the end of the season," said Murphy. "He can be a major impact player, but he has to keep improving. He has a fu­ture in minor league baseball, a future in professional baseball, if he continues to im­prove the way he is. 
"He has to perform well in our program in order for us to be a successful team." 
Role-playing is important to Sass. He recognizes his role as an RBI man and knows the im­portance of playing a role ef­fectively. 
"Our team is successful be­cause everybody knows their role," said Sass. "Mine as a hit­ter is to be aggressive and to knock in as many runs as I can. 
Against Chicago State, the Irish will be getting used to the 
''Mom says the house just isdt the same without me, even though its 
alot cleaner.'' 
doubleheader. Of the 22 remaining dates the Irish have on their schedule, 18 will be doubleheaders. 
"We've got to go out and play our game and not get involved with wins and losses," said Murphy. "We've got to get used to playing doubleheaders be­cause that's what we've got ahead of us." 
The Irish will be opening their home season at Stanley Coveleski Regional Stadium, the home field of the minor league South Bend White Sox. 
"It's a privilige to play at Coveleski but it hurts that we can't have more students at the game because of the distance from campus," said Murphy. "But we like to open ourselves to the community a couple times a year. 
"Coveleski is a bigger park than Jake Kline Field (Notre Dame's on-campus stadium), so we have to play a little more of a hit-and-run game, putting the ball on the ground a little more than we would if we were playing at Jake Kline Field." 
Just because vour Mom is br awa\·, doesn't mean \'OU can'the close. You can still share the love and laughter on AT&T Long Distance Service. 
It costs less than vou think to hear that sl1e likes the peace and quiet, but she misses you. So go ahead, give your Mom a call. '{c)u can clean vour room later. Reach o'ut and touch someone~ 

ATs.T 
The right choice. 




Wednesday, March 29, 1989 The Observer page 15 
ND tennis runs record to 15-8 
By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer 
There are many ways to reach prominence in collegiate tennis, some faster than others. Miami (Ohio) detoured the Notre Dame men's tennis team's path this weekend, but the Iris later got back on track with wins over Northern Illi­nois and Indiana State. 
As Head Coach Bob Bayliss looked down at Court 6 of the Eck Tennis Pavilion, he not only saw his number-three doubles team lose but also watched his squad drop two of three doubles matches, causing the Irish to lose 5-4 to Miami. 
The 15-8 Irish doubles teams, 
usually the backbone of the 
lineup, were scalped by the 
Redskins. After singles play, 
the match was tied at 3-3. In 
the past, the Irish duos have 
solidified and pulled upsets . 
For a variet of reasons, the Irish could not muster a win this time. The loss cost Notre Dame an opportunity to es­tablish itself as one of the top regional powers. 
"It was disappointing to lose to Miami," said Bayliss. "We did not play well enough, but we played hard and were com­petitive. After singles, it was anybody's match. It was inevi­table that we have a down day." 
In the match for regional 
bragging rights, No. 1 Dave 
DiLucia was forced to three 
sets but downed Jeff Vanden­
berg , 6-7 (5-7), 6-2, 6-0. 
DiLucia, who currently is 
ranked 51st in the country, has 
won four consecutive matches 
going back to the Navy contest. 
At number-two singles, Wal­
ter Dolhare bettered Pep 
Llinas in straight sets. 7-5, 6-0. 
In doubles, the Irish number­
one tandemn was surprised by 
Miami's number-one duo of Jeff 
Vandenberg and Scott Mayo in 

needs motivated people for the following paid positions: 
Photographers 
A very important meeting will be held TONIGHT at 8 p.m. 
All Observer photographers and anyone wishing to become one should attend. 
For more information, contact Photography Editor Eric Bailey at 239-5303 

straight sets, 6-2, 6-3. 
In the second match of the day, the Irish muffled the Huskies of Northern Illinois 6-3. The Irish jumped out to a 4-2 lead after singles and con­firmed the win by winning two out of the three doubles matches. 
The Northern Illinois match· was the setting of highs and lows for the Irish squad. On one hand, Kalbas squeaked out a three-set victory against the formidable Eric Anderson 4-6, 6-4, 7-6. On the other hand, the number-one doubles pair fell for the second straight time to the team of Steve Weire and Dan Bowers 2-6, 6-4, 7-6. 
In their third dual match in less than 36 hours, the Irish posted their first shutout of the season by chopping down the Sycamores of Indiana State 9-0. To illustrate the dominance of the match, Notre Dame did not drop one set in the entire match. 
•

Sutter doubts he'll pitch aga1n 
Associated Press 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla.-­Bruce Sutter admitted Tues­day that his chances of ever pitching again are remote be­cause of a severely torn rotator cuff. But the former king of the bullpen still is not ready to an­nounce his retirement. 
Sutter, who last year became only the third relief pitcher in baseball history to record 300 saves, was told Monday by Braves' physicians that the rotator cuff in his right shoulder was torn badly. 
"I wouldn't anticipate that he would play any more baseball," said team physician Dr. Robert Wells after being shown results of the examina­tion. 
"There's probably a 99.9 per­cent chance I won't be able to pitch again," Sutter told a hastily called news conference at the Braves' training camp. He returned to West Palm Beach Tuesday morning from Atlanta, where he was ex­
amined Sunday by another Braves physician, Dr. Joe Chandler. 
Sutter said he would rest his arm for three to four months and then decide whether to un­dergo surgery on the shoulder, which had been operated on three times previously. 
Sutter, who signed a $10.6 million, 6-year contract with the Braves in December 1984, still has two years remaining at $1.5 million per season. • 



Irish 
continued from page 20 
The Irish needed good perfor­mances from senior Lisa Kuhns and freshman Comalita Haysbert to make a run at the Rockets, whom they beat ear­lier this season with Bunek and Liebscher at full strength, and they got just that. 
Kuhns finished with 10 points, including two treys, and Haysbert came through with eight points, but it was not enough to get the team past Toledo. 
The Irish had a 32-27 halftime lead but could only manage 40 percent shooting from the field in the second half. The Rockets exploded past them for 58 points during this same time period to throw the Irish into the consolation bracket. 
The Observer 
"A three-day tournament is tough on teams," said Bunek. "You have to strong emotion­ally, mentally tough. and con­centration has to stay ex~ tremely high." "But even though we didn't play well in the first and second games, we're a young team and any postseason experience can only make us better later." 
Happy Birthday. finn Hart 
~~The 
Monkey•• 
----~--------~~--------~-~ 
Wednesday, March 29, 1989
The Observer 

Track opens outdoor season with Notre Dame Invitational 
By COLLEEN M.HENNESSEY Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's track team opened its outdoor season last weekend with a strong showing in the Notre Dame In­vitational. 
The Irish viewed the un­scored meet as an opportunity to allow some of the less expe­rienced athletes a chance to compete in preparation for the outdoor season. Although Notre Dame took place in only 
four events  (two running and meters. Notre Dame took freshman teammate  
two  field),  Irish  coach  Joe second in the 200. Stewart's 182-5 112, thereby en­ 
Piane  was  pleased  with  the suring the first and  

overall effort. 

"We certainly accomplished all we set out to do," he said. "First-place finishes were really irrelevant." 
Notre Dame hosted the six­team meet, Because fo the resurfacing of the outdoor Car­tier track, the running events took place in the Loftus Center. The field events were at Cartier Field, as scheduled. 
One of the big winners of the day was Western Michigan University. The Broncos took first-place finishes in 10 out of 17 individual events, including the pole vault, the 1,500 meters, the 400 meters, and the 200 
We need someone with theronfi.denceofaSIJ.1_'gOOI1,
the dedicatiorrot ­amarathoner andthe 
rourage ofanexplorer. 
We need a Peace Corps volunteer Call us atl-800-424-8.580, Ext. 91. 
PeaceCorps. 
ThriCJillftnlf6l!'O'IliMTiow 
Joe Piane 

Junior Xavier Victor led the Notre Dame cause, claiming first place in the long jump. Victor beat out Western Mic­higan's J\Je Beamam with a jump of 22-7 314. 
In the 110 high hurdles, Irish junior Glenn Watson defeated Western Michigan's Doug But­ler by one-tenth of a second with a time of 14.4. 
"This was the first opportu­nity for our high hurdlers to run a full flight of highs," said Piane. "Indoors they run 55, whereas outdoors it is 110." 
Throwing the javelin for the Irish, junior Ron Regnery's best toss of 182-11 V2 beat out 

Glenn Watson 
Jon 
second spots for Notre Dame in that competition. 
The Irish swept the 3,000 meters as well, with freshman Bill Dauphinais crossing the tape at 8:32.95, just ahead of freshman Mike Drake and sophomore Matt Ronzone, who recorded respective times of 8:33.90 and 8:38.50. 
Notre Dame travels to Geor­getown this Saturday to com­pete in a dual meet with the Hoyas, last year's Big East in­door champions. 
"This will be a good opportu­nity to run against someone dif­ferent," said Piane. "Someone not from the Midwest." 


i

Kim and Reggie Harris 
I 

Dream Alive 
I 
A Celebration of Black I 
t
History I I I 

Songs and stories of the I accomplishments of black Americansl 
I 

Wednesday, March 29, 8 p.m. I O'Laughlin Auditorium, I 
i

Saint Mary's College 
i 

I ADMISSION FREE 
For updated information on campus 
activities, call the Saint Mary's Events Hotline, 674-0900, code 1740 
Saint Ma~'s Colleg~
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 


Wednesday, March 29, 1989 The Observer page 17 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Irish lacrosse buries Hartford 
~ 

r==============~~~~~~~~~~~9 
Shawn Davis, a cornerback on the Notre Dame football team,'has been suspended by Head Coach Lou Holtz for ~he remainder of spring practice. Reasons for the suspensiOn have not been disclosed. -The Observer 
The Water Polo Club will continue spring practice tonight from 9 to 10:30 p.m. at Rolf's Aquatic Center. Elec­tions for next year's officers will take place -The Observer 
SMC-ND women's lacrosse will practice today at 8 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. Call Maria at x2577 for more information. -The Observer 
Anyone interested inbeingascorekeeperfor Bookstore Basketball must attend a meeting tonight in the Montgomery Room of LaFortune at 7 p.m. Call Mike at x3305 for more information. -The Observer 
The crew team will have a mandatory meeting tonight at 7:30p.m. in 356 Fitzpatrick for those interested in going to Augusta or San Diego. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball Captains may pick up schedules today at the SUB office on the second floor of LaFortune from 3:30 to 5 p.m. -The Observer 
Irish Outdoors will have a meeting Tuesday, April4, at 7:30p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFort_une. Plans for the April 22 Dunes trip and a post-exam tnp to Cum­berland Island will be discussed -The Observer 
Antostal Mud Volleyball captain's meeting will ~e tonight at 7 p.m. in Cushing Auditorium. 30 te_ams are still needed. Signups will be held before the meetmg at 6 p.m. The cost is $7 per team. Call Ed at x3271 or Pete at x3280 for more information. -3The Observer 
Sports Briefs are acc~pted in writi~g Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­tion. -The Observer 
By PETE LaFLEUR Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team ended its scoring woes last Saturday at Edward W. "Moose" Krause Field by routing an undermanned Uni­versity of Hartford squad 17-4. 
The Irish (2-3) had been averaging only six goals per game entering the contest with the Hawks. But in their first home game, the Irish peppered the Hartford goal wifh 59 shots and dominated possession on the way to securing their second consecutive win. 
"I think Hartford was a very spirited team, but they weren't really talented," said Irish co­ach Kevin Corrigan. "We played to our level instead of 
playing down to their level, and I was pleased overall that we dominated the whole game." 
Junior Mike Quigley led the Irish with five goals and an as­sist, one short of the Irish record for goals in a game. 
Junior Brian McHugh added four goals and two assists while senior tri-captain John Olmstead noured in three goals 
The Irish defense fended off four man-down situations but was otherwise untested. Hartford attempted only 17 shots and cleared out of its zone on only seven of fifteen at­tempts. 
Quigley snapped out of his shooting slump in a big way, scoring his five goals off of six shots. 
"Going five for six is tremen­dous, and we've been needing more scoring from our mid­field," Corrigan said. "Mike's been struggling but played very well against Hartford, and we need him to play well." 
ach come from Quigley's high school, Kings Park in Smith­town, N.Y. Murray's older bro­ther, Mike, is a sophomore middie for the Falcons. 
Olmstead enters the game with 120 career points. He could become the third all-time leading Irish scorer by passing Tom Grote (122) and Steve Pearsall (125). That would leave only Bob Trocchi (143) and Joe Franklin (161) between Olmstead and the scoring record. 

Are You Concernea with the Cultural 
Diversity at Notre Dame? 

The Multicultural Executive Council is looking for a few good people to become members of the council. Applications can be picked up now at the Student Activities Office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. Deadline to turn them in is March 29, 1989. Interviews will be held April 5-6. 
If you have questions please call 239-7308 
LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 
. ... I\ .· 
•· ' ' ' f ' , ' ) f-· l 
I '-. \~ . ~ /// '; ..t.. ~ ~'----~~---,/· 
..... ~~ ~ ~.-......J-~~ 
'-~ OOtfTDfiiVfDRUNfl,OIIRIDlWITHAN'I'ONfWHODOt\ 
LooitirjjOtJ" 
LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Toke a hfesov1ng Red Cross CPR course.
+American Red Cross 


Lacrosse 
continued from page 20 
have to take advantage of it." 
Senior tri-captain and junior Brian McHugh continue to spark the Irish attack. Olmstead leads the Irish with nine goals and five assists, while McHugh has tallied eight goals and five assists. 
Junior midfielder Mike Quigley has also chipped in eight goals and an assist, as the Irish try to compensate for the absence of junior Dave Carey, who could be out for the year with a knee injury. 
O'Connor and senior tri­captain Doug Spencer lead a defense that has held every op­ponent under 10 goals. Junior goalie Jeff Glazier has 48 saves this year and traditionally has played very well in big games. 
The game with Air Force will hold special significance for Quigley and freshman Doug Murray. Two Air Force players 
and the Falcons assistant co-
J I I I •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
r now open saturdays 12-5 call 239-5213 
~I SATURDAY,APRIL1ST w
~l._T_,jJ 
12.3o-sPM 

OFFICE OF 
0MPUS 
MINISTRY WHAT'S THE FUTURE 
\.li'Witl\11'10'1 Mflht Dome 
OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 
Nont Oomt IH .a6~~6 
o.M"io~l·t•HIU» 
..__N·UIU·• A workshop for couples in a serious relationsf)ip who want to explore choices and decisions for the future including the possibility of marriage. 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: 
·Stages of relationships -Expectations for the future -Steps in making healthy decisions 
COMMENTS FROM LAST TIME: -"an excellent opportunity to examine our relationship in a comprehensive way" 
-"a good balance of time together, lecture and take-home materials" -"It 'was nice to be able to have time set aside to really sit down and discuss issues!" -"1 was glad I traveled 4hrs. to be here with my partner." 
PRE-REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. 
Applications can be picked up at either Campus Ministry Office: Badin Hall or Library Concourse. 

Applications are due by Wednesday, March 29th . 
ADWORKS 

page 18 
•
It's All Saints Day 1n 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK--All Saints' Day is coming early this year. 
St. John's and St. Louis, Cath­olic schools with proud basket­ball traditions, meet Wednes­day night for the championship 
of  the  National  Invitation  
Tournament  at  Madison  
Square Garden.  

St. John's is playing in its 25th NIT and St. Louis is appearing for the 14th time, but it's been years since either school won the championship of the country's oldest postseason tournament. 
"Easy" Ed Macauley led St. Louis to its only NIT title in 1948. St. John's won the last of its four NIT championships in 1965. 
"Tradition is good for his­torians," St. John's coach Lou Carnesecca said Tuesday, "but it won't help us tomorrow night." 
St. John's, 19-13, reached its low point after losing to last­place Boston College in the game to determine the last berth in the Big East tourna­ment. But the Redmen have rebounded with four victories in the NIT, including a 76-65 semifinal win over Alabama­Birmingham on Monday night. 
"It was very depressing after the BC game," Carnesecca said. "A lot of people thought we were dead, but we stuck with it and we're still playing." 
Because they start three freshmen in guard Jason Buc­hanan, forward Malik Sealy and center Robert Werdann, the Redman are considered a team of the future. But Car­nesecca would rather talk · about today than tomorrow. 
"The future is now," he said, echoing the phrase made fa­mous by George Allen. "You · never know what's going to happen in a year or two. You've got to grab it while you can." 
St. Louis, 27-9, reached the championship game by beating Michigan State 74-64. 
"We may be a surprise team to a lot of people around the country, but we felt we were pretty good all along," Bil­likens coach Rich Grawer said. 
"It's kind of mind-boggling, but someone told me there's only 10 teams in the country with 27 wins or more, and we're one of them." 
The Observer 

NIT final 
Despite their record, the Bil­likens didn't get much national publicity until they arrived in New York. 
"The last time I saw this many reporters was when I was a high school coach and Steve Stipanovich was playing for me," Grawer said. 
Grawer said he isn't worried about playing before a pro-St. John's crowd at the Garden. 
"We always preach to our kids about how great it is to overcome the odds," he said. "It's always more satisfying to win on the other guy's court." 
What does concern Grawer is St. John's big front line. 
"They've got a 7-footer, a 6-10 guy and a 6-8 guy," he said. "I just hope we can see over them." 
Carnesecca, meanwhile, was singing the blues over St. Louis' high-scoring trio of Anthony Bonner, Monroe Douglass and Roland Gray. 
"You're talking about three of the best players in St. Louis history," he said. "Two ofthose guys are going to make a lot of money in the pros." 
Wednesday, March 29, 1989 


AP Photo 

Jayson Williams and St. John's will have a partisan crowd in their favor when they battle Saint Louis for the NIT championship tonight at Madison Square Garden. Both schools have played in the NIT many times before. 
Softball 
continued from page 20 
started the second game and combined with Linn to defeat St. Joseph's 3-2. Ruth Kmak drove in the winning run in the bottom of the seventh inning. 
Last Saturday was a disap­pointing day for the team, as it lost both ends of a doubleheader to MCC power Dayton by scores of 4-2 and 2-1. 
"We didn't play well against Dayton," said Boulac. "We should have won the second game, but we made a couole of 
errors. They were mental er­rors more than anything." 
The Irish played their best games of the series on Monday when the team faced another MCC opponent in Butler. Boulac had said earlier that he felt the Irish could be compet­itive with Butler, and the players backed this up. 
It was Missy Linn who again provided solid pitching, as she shut out Butler 4-0 in the opening game, and picked up the victory in the second game with a strong relief perfor­mance. 
Boulac juggled the lineup, putting freshman Laura Som­merlad in the leadoff position to add more punch to the of-

~F!Jbtttj~ .. .Siott!dlrffjot~t P~Pt.? 
NCLEX-RN

KAPLAN OFFERS YOU 
CGFNS 

CONTINUOUS NCLEX REVIEW Licensure RIGHT HERE IN SOUTH BEND! Preparation 
OURS IS NOT A WEEK-END 
CRAM COURSE. YOU CAN 
THOROUGHLY PREPARE 
TO DO YOUR BEST. DON'T TAKE A CHANCE ON YOUR 
FUTURE. CALL FOR MORE INFORMATION OR STOP BY FOR A FREE LESSON. 
**** 

KAPLAN TEST PREP CENTER 1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 
219/272-4135 


Fun! Adventure! Cash! 
going 3-for-6 during .the two games. Sommerlad raised her average from the low .200s to 
.317  over  the  course  of  the  
week.  
"On  the  Butler  trip,  we  

played really well," Boulac said. "We made no errors in the first game, and only a few in the second. 
"If we play well defensively and our pitching continues to hold together like it has been, we're a competitive softball team," Boulac continued. "I'm pleased with how the girls have hung together." 
Overall, Boulac was happy with the team's efforts over the 

~CilJi: 
Alumni-Senior CLUB 
BARTENDER 
Have you seen this man? .HappyBelated 
Birthday 
Patrlck·laan 

Applications and Job descriptions are available in the Office of Student Activities, 3rd Floor LaFortune. 
* Deadline is this Friday, March 31! 

The Observer page 19 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Seasonal song 50 Therefore 25 Walking with a 51 Cry of surprise 
1 Historic English forepaw raised: 
city 52 Popular singer 
Her.

5 Checks 55 Birth
29 Wheel guards 

10 Style of furniture phenomenon32 Gale6n gold 
14 S-shaped 59 Woeful word molding 33 Put a tennis ball 60 Fail in an15 Silas Marner's in play 
attempt
creator 35 Symbol of evil 16 Gray wolf 62 Get one's goat 
36 Use a winnow 17 One's own legs 38 Besmirches 63 Dazzling display 19 Teacher of 40 Corresponding 64 Plasm preceder Elman and 
41 -Park, Colo. 65 Peggy of TV
Zimbalist 
43 Poker payments panel shows 
20 Fare for Roger Rabbit 
45 Prevaricate 66 Backslide 21 Shake or quake 46 Mends 67 Catches on 23 800-mile Asian 48 Sail on a river schooner 
DOWN 
1 Anjou's cousin 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 2 Turkish title 3 Rip 4 Matisse and 
Rousseau 5 Predetermines 


• 

6 Gift to the needy 7 Actress Farrow 8 Location on a 
ship 9 Creator of Tristram Shandy 10 Tree-lined promenades 11 Ambiguous language 12 Walter of screen fame 

Wednesday, March 29, 1989 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
12:15 p.. m.. "Music and the Underground Railroad: Songs and Stories in the Quest for Freedom," by Kim and Reggie Harris, writers-performers.. Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall. 
12:30 p.m. ND Department of Economics Labor Workshop, "The Knights of Labor and Credit Markets," Gerry Berk, University of Notre Dame, Room 131 Decio. 
2:00-4:00 p.m. ND Computing Visiting Scholars Program, "IBM PS-2 as Desktop Multi-Media Tool," Dr. Fred T. Hofstetter. Room 223 Hayes-Healy. 
4:30-6:30 p.m. ND Department of Modern and Classical Lan­guages lecture, "The Contemporary Literature of the Countries of the Southern Cone: Exile 'Insilio' and Beyond," Prof. Hiber Conteris, Univ. of Wisconsin at Madison, R,.oom 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. 
7:30 p.m. Indiana Province of Holy Cross Justice and Peace Commission, "The Acts of the Apostles and Our Acts: A Modest Resurrection," Rev. Daniel Berrigan, S.J. Poet and Peace Activist. Moreau Seminary. 
8:00p.m. "Dream Alive: A Celebration ofBlack History," 
Songs and Americans, Auditorium.  Stories of by Kim  the and  Accomplishments of Black Reggie Harris. O'Laughlin  
CAMPUS  

3:30 
p.m. ND Lacrosse vs. Air Force. Moose Krause Field. 

3:30 
p.m. ND Softball vs. Detroit. Detroit, Michigan. 4:00p.m. ND Baseball vs. Chicago State. 


COMICS 
'1JV1.rL 
~~ --­
~ ­

Bloom County 
Berke Breathed 
13 Song from "Mondo Cane" 18 Nut-producing 
trees 22 Ages and ages 25 Model or riddle 26 Come up 27 Plays down 28 Ancient city in 
Mysia 29 Fabrics used by milliners 
The Far Side 

30 Strong fiber 31 Curl one's lip 34 Chablis, e.g. 37 Bed bloomers · 39 Take apart 42 Poster 44 Master, to a 
Hindu 47 Form of verse 49 Port in S Italy 
, 
52 Artist Chagall 
531nter-.. 54 Reliquary 
55 First word of 
Moore's famous poem 56 Guipure, e.g. 57 --en point 58 Ring decisions by refs 61 High mountain 
:· ·­
Gary Larson 



J 
• 
Sports 
Wednesday, March 29, 1989

pa e 20 
Women's basketball team places seventh in NIT 
By MOLLY MAHONEY team had envisioned prior to the tourn­carrying the scoring burden with junior inson assumed her usual position as Sports Writer ament, nor was it the NCAA bid it hoped Annie Schwartz, who tallied 12 points. floor general and stayed on the offen­for in the preseason, but after losing The team's usually strong free throw sive most of the game, scoring a team­Amidst March Madness, they came senior co-captain Heidi Bunek and shooting faltered, as the Irish shot 56 high 16 points, while helping fellow in like a lion and out like a lamb. freshman Jennifer Tranel to knee injur­percent from the line compared to a sophomore Sara Liebscher dish out 
After beating Loyola to win the Mid­ies and relying on three sophomores to season average of 70 percent. Nonethe­assists. western Collegiate Conference tourna­carry much of the burden, few com­less, after three days of tournament Liebscher, whose severly sprained ment, the Notre Dame women's bas­plaints could be heard. play, the Irish were able to outlast the ankle limited her playing time in the ketball team came into the women's "It's been a great building year for Spyders down the stretch and widen the team's first game and inhibited her National Invitation Tournament with a us," said Bunek. "We dealt wifu a lot two-point lead they_held at halftime. mobility throughout the tournament, full head of steam and high hopes in of problems and still had a good season Notre Dame's win over Richmond still managed to score 12 points for the post-season play. and got a post-season bid, so we we're was a welcome relief after falling to Irish against the Blue Demons. 
But Toledo and DePaul rained on the glad to finish the season on a good former North Star Conference rival Liebscher played only 16 minutes in parade, beating the Irish last Thursday note." DePaul 77-69. Toledo's 85-62 drubbing of the Irish in and Friday and leaving the team eith The team's 51-46 victory over Rich­Senior All-America candidate Diana their first game. Even with well­only one chance to end the season on a mond should help preserve the team's Vines climbed all over the Irish, rounded scoring, Notre Dame could not high note. optimism about next season, and the scoring a game-high 32 points and rip­get by the Rockets. 
Notre Dame took advantage of that strong play of sophomore Krissi Davis ping down 13 rebounds. Robinson led the Irish attack, tallying opportunity on Saturday by winning its throughout the tournament could lead Only the 5-9 Davis could compete un­a team-high 13 points. Davis added 11 final game over Richmond to claim the strQng core of young players return­der the boards for rebounds, as she points on 7-of-8 free-throw shooting, seventh place in the NIT and finish the ing next year. grabbed a game-high 15 rebounds and while grabbing 10 rebounds. season at 21-11. Davis led the team with 14 points and also scored 15 points. 
It was not the storybook ending the seven rebounds against the Spiders, Sophomore point guard Karen Rob-see IRISH, page 16 
ND softball 
ND lacrosse hosts 
goes 4-2 
Falcons at Krause 

l • iover break f : 
By PETE LaFLEUR Springs, Colo., and the Falcons Sports Writer later captured the '88 NCAABy MARY GARINO bid.
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse In that game, the Falcons team attempts to take its first took advantage of many IrishAfter winning four of six step toward the NCAA tourna­penalties to let their physicalgames over Easter break, the ment's western bid when it advantage take over. ThingsNotre Dame softball team hosts Air Force today at 3:30 should be more favorable forfaces defending Midwest Col­p.m. in Edward W. "Moose" the Irish this year, accordinglegiate Conference champion 
Krause Stadium. to senior tri-captain KevinDetroit in an away game today O'Connor.
at 3:30p.m. 
INSIDE "I think we match up better
The Irish (8-6) had a busy break, with three NO whips Hartford...... 17 individually with them this 
year, and we're coming off two

doubleheaders in four days, 
and managed to compile a 4-2 The Irish (2-3) are in conten­wins and have a lot of confi­record. In the home opener last tion for the bid with three other dence,'' O'Connor said. "This Friday, Notre Dame swept St. "western" schools--the Fal­is one of our few home games, Joseph's of Rensselaer. The cons, Michigan State and Ohio and we're hungry for a win 
Irish held off St. Joseph's for a State. against a good team. 1-0 victory in the first game be­Although Notre Dame suf­"We're ready and in great 
hind the pitching of freshman fered a few early-season losses, shape, and we realize the im­star Missy Linn. Linn allowed games with Division I western portance of the game, no doubt only three hits and struck out teams will bear most heavily about it." 12 en route to the victory. on the NCAA selection. For the Corrigan said he is wary of 
"Missy has provided the Irish, Air Force is the first test the athleticism and solid play stopper for us," said Irish co­towards that goal. of Air Force, which stands 3-0 ach Brian Boulac. "We have .1 "The key is that if we beat for the season on its run to an­been pleased with her prog­The Observer I Scott McCann Air Force we're still alive for other NCAA bid. 
the NCAA bid," said Irish co­
ress. She works hard and has "Air Force has very good 
been a great competitor in The Notre Dame lacrosse team hosts Air Force this afternoon in ach Kevin Corrigan, "and if we athletes, anrl tl-tat's something game situations." a game the Irish must win in order to have a chance of receiving don't, we're not. That's the bot­we'll have to umtend v'lth," Senior captain Barb Mooney an NCAA tournament bid. John Olmstead (29) enters the game as tom line." Corrigan said. •·ThPv will be 
Air Force beat Notre Dame
Notre Dame's fifth all-time leading scorer with 120 points. see SOFTBALL, page 18 14-8 last year in Colorado see LACROSSE, page 17 
New golf coach brings Irish baseball team at 12-5 hefty resume With him After doubleheader sweep of Butler, NO shut out by IU 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
with 11 runs batted in, includ­George Thomas will be in familiar territory when he Sports Writer ing two grand slams. This al­leads the Notre Dame men's golf team at the Purdue most surpassed his entire.1988 
Spring Invitational this weekend. Thomas played for the 
The Notre Dame baseball output, which consisted of 13Boilermaker team which placed second nationally in 1950. 
. team made two stops to In­RBI and no home runs in 55The 64-year-old rookie Irish coach also backed up All­
diana over Easter break to take games.
America quarterback Bob Demoss on a Purdue football 
on Butler and Indiana, sweep­"I've gotten added confi­team that also included Hank Stram. 
ing a doubleheader with Butler dence from last year," said and coming up empty against Sass, who is in only his second Steve 
the Hoosiers. year of baseball after a four­year layoff from the sport and 
L-
Megargee 
an involvement in Irish foot­
INSIDE 
ball. "Being able to practice

Irish Items 
Home opener tonight.. f4 over the fall has made a big difference in my game."
Brian Piotrowicz
"It gives me even more incentive to want to beat Murphy, however, is not (Purdue)," Thomas said in reference to this weekend's Notre Dame (12-5) had very stand that in the course of the quick to expound upon the bril­10-team tournament. "Last year, they almost did pull it little time to savor its 15-1 and season you're not going to get liance of the Irish offensive out-off. That would be a nice feather in our team's caps." 12-3 rompings over the Bul­good results every time." put against Butler. 
A Michigan City native, Thomas has spent much of his ldogs before being crushed One of the positives that "Butler is not 15 runs less life teaching golf in the Michiana area. He worked as the themselves 10-0 by a very came out of the weekend was than us," said the second-year head golf professional at the Long Beach Country Club in talented Indiana team. the offensive performance coach. "Butler is a lot better Michigan City for 12 years before taking a similar position "I was not very pleased with against Butler, in which the than they were last year, but at Elkhart's Elcona Country Club 23 years ago. our overall performance," said Irish exploded for 27 runs on 28 they had some timely errors 
Thomas has been at Elcona ever since and continues to Irish head coach Pat Murphy, hits in two games. One name · and we had some timely hits." work there as the new Irish coach. He did not exactly "but there were some positives dominated all the stats: James Junior Brian Piotrowicz to come out of the games, and Sass.
see ITEMS, page 12 
sometimes we have to under-On the day, Sass was 4-for-6 see BUTLER, page 14 







