
VOL. XXIII NO. 37 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1989 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S . 

AP Photo 
A trader on the Sydney Futures Exchange takes a break after frantic trading on Monday morning in Sydney, Australia. The Share Futures Contract fell 10.6% in the mornings trading. 
Dow Jones recovers, averts 'Black Monday' 
88.12 point gain is fourth largest 
Associated Press han, manager of equity trading 
at Montgomery Securities Inc. 
in San ·Francisco. 
NEW YORK -Wall Street On Friday, the Dow Jones av­averted another Black Monday erage suffered its second­and had a Blue Chip day in­biggest point drop ever, falling stead, as some of the heaviest 190 points and raising fears of trading in history produced a a repeat of Oct. 19, 1987, when rally in big-name stocks and a Friday decline turned into a losses in many smaller issues. Monday rout that knocked a 
The Dow Jones average, record 508 points off the aver­which represents stock prices age. of America's 30 biggest indus­Indeed, it started to shape up trial companies, rose 88.12 as a repeat of Black Monday, points, or 3.4 percent, to with sharp declines in foreign 2,657.38, erasing nearly half stock markets and the Dow the losses suffered in last Jones average falling about 63 week's Friday the 13th plunge. points in the first hour Monday. 
Volume totaled 416.29 million But after gyrating wildly, the shares, the fourth largest in market settled down in the history. afternoon. Indexes of the 
It was a "reasonably normal American Stock Exchange and 400 million-share, 88 1/2-point over-the-counter stocks fell, day," New York Stock Ex­but .the New York S-tock Ex­change Chairman John Phelan change composite index rose. Jr. joked at a news conference. "What we're seeing is a 
In spite of the gains in the demonstration that the safety Dow Jones average, stocks valves in the U.S. financial sys­whose prices declined outnum­tem are in place and operat­bered those that increased by a ing," said David Resler, chief 5 to 4 margin in the New York economist of Nomura Securities Stock Exchange. The 88.12-International Inc. in New York. point gain was the fourth In lower Manhattan, tourists largest point rise. lined up early outside the New 
"When you get into a period York Stock Exchange, hoping like we're in now, there's al­to get an eyewitness view of the ways a flight to quality. People trading spasms. want safety and they want "I feel like I'm watching a car companies that have either accident," said John Egan, 24, documented growth rates or a a New Yorker waiting to get safe dividend," said Robert Ka-into the visitor's gallery. 
Duffy talks on perestroika, NATO 
By DAVID CERTO the Communist Party will play News Staff in any future Soviet reforms and detailed some of the politi­
The President of the North cal moves made by President Atlantic Assembly (NAA) Gorbachev and his opponents in Honorable Patrick Duffy spoke the Politburo, the ruling coun­about perestroika and its effect cil. on NATO, arms control, and 
When asked about his opinion the Soviet Union, Monday in the of Gorbachev's sincerity in re-Notre Dame Law School. 
Duffy discussed perestroika, forming his nation, Duffy a Russian term for restructur­stressed the past history and ing, and its political, cultural, nature of the U.S.S.R. "Mr. economic, social and military Gorbachev's motives are still implications for the Soviet not clear," said Duffy. "Is Mr. Union and its impact on inter­Gorbachev serious? I think he national relations. Hon. Patrtck Duffy is," Duffy said. 
Stressing the need for stabil­Another important point that ity in bringing about reform, any arms control agreement, Duffy made concerned the Duffy asked his audience to "be said Duffy. West's view of Gorbachev's re­wary of the Soviets while not There is a need for the NATO forms. "Soviet policies must be impugning their integrity." and Warsaw Pact alliances to tested over time. We may be at This, he said, would foster remain intact so that stable, a point where history swings on greater contact between East safe reforms could be affected, a hinge, but that is no reason and West while creating a safe Duffy emphasized. While he for us to lose our heads," and stable international envi­said he wished nothing more Duffy said. ronment for arms negotiations. than the dissolution of the So­The son of a coal miner, 
viet empire, he cautioned the Duffy entered English Parlia­
Duffy described the domi­West against pushing dissent. ment in 1963 on the Labor nance of the military in the So­Duffy also urged dialogue ticket. Since then he has been viet economy and the prevalent between the two alliances to active in international rela­"siege mentality" of the Soviet reduce tension. "This is a dan­tions, first as Minister for the people in both the general pop­gerous world. That's why I Royal Navy and then as the ulace and the upper echelons. prize stability above all else," chairman of the NAA's Sub­This explains the Soviet's de­Duffy stated. committee on Devence Coopera­termination to remain strong in Duffy stressed the key role tion. 
Wedtech conspirator gets 6 years 
Associated Press A federal jury convicted Wal­U.S. District Judge Richard 
lach on Aug. 8 of racketeering, Owen gave a harsh, detailed ac­
two fraud charges and con­count of Wallach's crimes. 
NEW YORK -E. Robert Wal­spiracy to defraud the U.S. "I am sickened to talk about 
lach was sentenced to six years government for dealings with them," Owen said. 
in prison Monday for taking Wedtech, a South Bronx de­Naftalis urged the judge to 
$425,000 in illegal payoffs fense contractor. sentence Wallach to community 
from scandal-plagued Wedtech service. He said Wallach de­
Wallach, who will be eligible
Corp. to influence former U.S. voted his life to helping various 
for parole after serving two
Attorney General Edwin Meese causes and was an excellent fa­
years, was convicted of receiv­
III and other government offi­ther. 
ing payoffs in exchange for us­
cials. 
ing his friendship with Meese The judge faulted Wallach for and others to help gain gov­his behavior during the reading Wallach, a prominent, 55­ernment contracts for Wedtech. of the verdict in August, whenyear-old San Francisco lawyer, the mother of one of his co-de­also was fined $250,000 and fendants collapsed.
ordered to forfeit $425,000. Wedtech, which collapsed in 
Defense attorney Gary Naf­1986, was awarded more than Owen said that before he 
asked the jurors to leave thetalis pleaded for leniency, and $250 million in no-bid con­
Wallach told the federal judge tracts in just four years. It be­courtroom, Wallach said to 
who sentenced him, "Too much came the target of five state them, "See what you've done." 
success can bring failure. I am and federal criminal investiga­The judge said he thought it 
the epitome of that and I am tions, which produced a slew of was "an incredible act" for an 
paying for it." criminal defendants. experienced trial lawyer. 
ND luggage service starts Friday 
By SANDRA WIEGAND The council will have a tration and to Hickey's News Copy Editor chairperson from each of family. 
seven club divisions report to A resolution to reprimand 
a club coordinator, who will The Observer for its editorial 
The Irish Express Luggage report to a Student Union. policy was dropped. The reso­service will begin picking up Board director of relations, lution was proposed as the luggage at 1:30 p.m. Friday, the student body treasurer, result of a Viewpoint article said a senator at Monday's and a student government which a senate member found Student Senate meeting. representative. The council "culturally insensitive." 
Shuttles to O'Hare leave the will be used to facilitate com­Senate member Uma Bal­main circle at 3:20 p.m., 5:20 munication and activities be­akrishnan also said that p.m., and 7:20 p.m.. Luggage tween the clubs and with stu­Viewpoint columns are gen­will be tagged, and students dent government. erally serious and that it will be asked to save their Student Senate approved a could not be assumed that the halves of the tags so their resolution to recognize Bill article in question was taken luggage can be easily Hickey, former director of by readers as satire. identified and distributed. University Food Services, for She said that the Viewpoint Further information about "his dedication and commit­policy for selection of articles Irish Express will be posted in ment to the excellence in food was not printed when she re­residence halls. services provided at Notre quested it, and that no letters 
A resolution to start a club Dame." criticizing the article had been coordination council was ap­Copies of the resolution will printed. proved at the meeting Monday be sent to executive members night. of the Notre Dame adminis­
see IRISH I page 4 
Tuesday, October 17, 1989
page 2 The Observer 
WORLD BRIEFS 
At least 100,000 pro-democracy demonstrators marched peacefully through downtown Leipzig on Monday night, the largest protest in communist East Germany's 40-year history. For the first time, state-run East German media promptly re­ported such a protest, saying that "tens of thousands of citizens" had joined the march. Pro-democracy activists said there were no incidents during the march. More than 70,000 protesters marched in Leipzig on Oct. 9, following a month in which thousands of East Germans fled West seeking freedom. 
The Kremlin regrets the past use of psychiatry as a polictical weapon, said a Soviet official Monday. The comment by Peter Morozov, the secretary of international relations for the state-sanctioned All-Union Society of Soviet Psychiatrists, was a depature from the Kremlin view that has only hinted at possible, isolated cases of abuse in the Soviet Union. "It's clear that we regret our past, not only (political) abuses but the whole system," Morozov said in an interview. 
Marina Ogilvy of London is two months pregnant and refuses to marry the father until the child is born. She says her parents are demanding they marry now or have an abortion. It is a sad and commonplace tale of modern morality, but it is also an uncommonly public royal scandal: Miss Ogilvy is 24th in line to the throne, her mother being the first cousin of Queen Elizabeth II. The royal family recently suffered the breakup of the marriage of Princess Anne, the queen's daughter. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
"Raging Bull" has been voted the best film of the decade and Meryl Streep and Jack Nicholson selected best actress and actor of the 1980s, according to a critics' poll in American Film magazine in Los Angeles. The poll of 54 leading critics, published in the magazine's November issue, named Martin Scorsese as the decade's best director for "Raging Bull," "The Last Temptation of Christ," "The King of Comedy," "After Hours" and a segment of "New York Stories." 
INDIANA BRIEFS 
A New York industrialist and entrepreneur has given Purdue University of West Lafayette, Indiana $1 million to create an endowed university professorship of manufacturing manage­ment.The gift from Lewis Cullman, pres. ient of Cullman Ventures Inc., will establish a faculty chair inten ted to draw a professor with an international reputation in rna tufacturing. The Lewis Cullman Professorship of Manufacturin~ will be established ini­tially in Purdue's Krannert School of Ma11agement. Future vacan­cies may be filled in other Purdue schools. 
The Hoosier Lottery had sold at least $12 million in instant­winner tickets by late Monday afternoon, lottery officials in Indi­anapolis said. However, sales in the three-day-old "Hoosier Mil­lionaire" game could be as high as $15.8 million, according to a statistical analysis of prize claim figures. Both sets of figures show the slowing in sales lottery officials had predicted would oc­cur after the first day, when $8.19 million in $1 "Hoosier Million­aire" tickets were sold within 24 hours after the game's Friday start. 
WEATHER 

Cooler 
Cloudy and much cooler today with a 60 percent chance of rain. Highs in the upper 40s. Cloudy and very cool tonight with a 50 percent chance of rain. Lows in the upper 30s. Cloudy and cool Wednesday. Highs in the middle 40s. 
ALMANAC 
On October 17: e In 1777: British forces un­der surrendered to American troops in Saratoga, N.Y., in a turning point of the Revolu­tionary War. e In 1931: Mobster AI Capone was convicted of income tax evasion and sentenced to 11 
years in prison. e In 1945: Colonel Juan Peron staged a coup in Buenos Aires, 
becoming dictator of Ar­gentina. e In 1973: Arab oil-producing nations announced they would begin cutting back exports to Western nations and Japan. In the days that followed, the Arab producers cut otT all oil shipments in an embargo that lasted until March 197 4. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for October 18, 1989 

Volume in shares 

251.17 Million 
NYSE Index 
189.76 • 4.2 
s~:2~:5mposlte 1ft
9_
23 
Dow Jones Industrials 
2,657.38 'lft88.12 
Precious Metals Gold +$4.10 to $367.30 I oz. Silver it 2.5¢ to $5.163 I oz. 
Source: AP 
lntormat1on comp1led lrom Observer wores and Observer stall reports 


Put up your 'Dukes' against poll of college knowledge 
As most people noticed last week while 

reading the paper, the National Endowment for 
the Humanities released the results of a Gallup 
Poll that tested college students on history and 
literature. Like every other poll of its kind, this 
poll concluded that we college students are a 
pack of mindless slugs who know nothing. 
As a result, every newspaper columnist, every 

professor and every politician has come out and 
said how TERRIBLE it is that the nation's youth 
apparently have learned as much in school as 
their elders have, judging by the fact that every 
poll has concluded that nobody really knows 
anything. 
Far be it from me to speak out and defend myself and my fellow scholars in the face of these terrible accusations, even though it is a perfectly honest mistake to answer that Shakespeare was a janitor in the House of Commons instead of a famous songwriter or whatever he was. 
The fact of the matter is that these polls are 100 percent correct: WE REALLY DON'T KNOW ANYTHING! This should be of great comfort to our parents, who, as we speak, are toiling away in sweat shops and the stockyards to pay our $15,000 dollar tuition and our bar tabs. It would shock them to know what the University has been covering up for years: We don't even have classes here! 
That's right, Mom and Dad, while you thought I was studying calculus and Spanish, I was running around the dorm after parietals wearing women's underwear and singing the theme from "Maude." My fellow students have been doing things like eating raw eggs and drinking cheap beer, running around campus dressed like their favorite woodland animals, building scale-model Golden Domes out of used Kleenex, and writing for "Common Sense." 
You are probably asking just what this has to do with anything, and I'm not really sure myself. But I do know that this recent Gallup poll could not possibly judge our true knowledge of the real world by asking questions about the Battle of Hastings (which, for those ignorant ones out there, is the name given to the glorious and triumphant rescue of three American medical students held hostage on the island of Grenada). If it were a true barometer of our knowledge of the world, the test would ask about the one thing we actually learned about in grammar school: "The Dukes of Hazzard." 
A true classic of American culture, "The Dukes of Hazzard" caused this author to first develop his now evident case of Dorkitis by staying in on Friday nights to watch the exploits of the Duke family. While the other seventh­graders in my neighborhood were going out and experiencing puberty, I stayed and worshiped Bo and Luke. Since coming to Notre Dame, however, I have met many closet "Dukes" fans. 
So, to prove that Notre Dame is indeed the Harvard of the Midwest, I have made my own humanities poll. Answer as many questions as possible without looking at the answers. 
1. Who sang the theme song to "The Dukes"? 

C'mon, that's a gimme-Waylon Jennings. Anyone who can stop me on the quad and sing 
OF INTEREST 
State Auditor Ann DeVore will hold an informal discussion on "Women in Public Life" in Waddick's on Wednesday from 1:15 p.m. ­2:15p.m.. 
Career and Family will be the topic of a Brown Bag Lunch today at 12:15 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Lounge. The featured speaker is Kelly Havens from the Counseling Center. Strategies for coping with career and family questions wiH be discussed. 
Campus Media Surveys are due today. If you received a survey, please complete it and 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur­chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

'It's a perfectly honest mistake to say Shakespeare was a janitor in the House of Commons instead of a famous songwriter.' 
John O'Brien Assistant News Editor 
the entire theme song will get my "Dukes of Hazzard" lunchbox. 
2. Who was the greatest of all of the Dukes? 
Anyone who answers something other than Daisy Duke automatically fails. Daisy was, in the eyes of every sixth-grade boy, the perfect woman. She. was innocent, respectful, a good waitress, and looked great in tight clothes and high heels. If you answered Crazy Cooter, I'll give you credit, just because he was a source of pride to Good 01' Boys everywhere. 
3. What was the name of the Duke boys' car? 
The General Lee. I used of dream of when I would turn 16 so I could by a 1969 Dodge Charger and then paint a Confederate flag on top, weld the doors shut, and then proceed to jump over police cars at 70 mph. 
4. Name the Duke boys' weapon of choice. 
Remember, because of their probation, Bo and Luke couldn't carry guns. The only logical alternative was a compound bow and arrows with dynamite taped to them. That's one rugged weapon. 
5. At the beginning of one episode, Bo and Luke are driving around singing what rock and roll classic? 
It was "Take it Easy" by the Eagles. Shame on you for not knowing that, you heathen. 
6. What was the name of the group in which Boss Hogg and Uncle Jesse first met? 
"The Rigderunners" was the name of the group of men who transported moonshine throughout Hazzard County. Uncle Jesse and Boss Hogg were Ridgerunners before becoming enemies. 
7. 
Who was the annoying nephew of Boss Hogg who frequently made guest appearances on the show? 

Huey Hogg. That was another gimme. 

8. 
What was the lame excuse provided by the producers of the show to jusify taking up five minutes of every show with a performance by some famous country and western singer? 


Sheriff Roscoe P. Coletrain would just happen to stop the singer for a traffic violation, forcing him to work otT the ticket with a performance. 
9. Who was the deputy who was so well-liked 
that he had his own spin-otT? Another easy one-Enos. 
10. To what large city did the Dukes frequently travel in an attempt to overrule Boss Hogg? 
Atlanta. Anyone who missed that one might as well pack it up. 
SCORING: Zero wrong-You're a genius. 1-5 wrong-Pitiful. More than five wrong-keep 1996 open, Dan Quayle will need a running mate. 
put it in the student government survey box in your dorm lobby. 
The Notre Dame Council on Interna­tional Business Development will be holding a general organizational meeting today in Room 124 Hayes-Healy at 4:30p.m.. 
Auditions for "Tiny Alice," a play by Ed­ward Albee, will be held in the Lab Theatre in Washington Hall today and Wednesday from 7 
p.m. to 11 p.m.. No prior knowledge of the play is necessary. 
D8algn Elk........................... Kathy Gliwa D8algn Allllll:ant.............. Cheever Griffin l'ypelalaar............................ Mike Gargiulo ............................................... Gilbert Gomez NBwsEik...................... Christine Walsh NBws Ccpv Elk................... Sarah Voigt Sports Ccpv Edllor............ Theresa Kelly Viewpoint Copy Editor ............ Kim Skiles VIewpoint Layout ............ Molly Schwartz Accent Editor ..................... Colleen Cronin Accent Copy Editor. Stephanie Snyder Aa:antbeaigner..................... Sarah Fiske l'hoklglapher ................ Susy Hernandez NO Day Editor ..........................Maria Reda Ads Designer.•••..•....••....•.. Meg Callahan, .. ............. Kathleen O'Connor. Val Poletto ................ Kristie Rolke, Laura Rossi 
--------------------, 
Tuesday, October 17, 1989 page 3
The Observer 

Bush signs mandatory Gramm-Rudman cuts 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Bush signed an order Monday night cutting federal programs by $16.1 billion after giving up hopes for a last-minute com­promise with Congress. 
"It's the law. We're ready to implement it," said White House press secretary Marlin Fitzwater. He said that, while the administration had sought to avoid the almost across-the­board cuts triggered by the na­tion's Gramm-Rudman budget­cutting law, "it might even be 
good"  if the budget  ax  does  
fall.  
The  order  Bush  signed  

shortly before 7 p.m., to take effect at midnight, was largely procedural as the spending cuts were automatic under the law. 
"We'll continue to work with the Congress" in seeking to de­velop a compromise to reduce the deficit to roll back the spending cuts, Fitzwater said. "But there is some feeling here that (the automatic cuts) are the way to go. It will reduce spending in a very effective fashion." 
"Everyone's going to have to take in their belts," he added."It will have a hit, there's no doubt about it." 
Earlier, budget director Richard Darman said "we are doing what the law requires." 
The cutbacks are required under the Gramm-Rudman law because of the failure of Congress and the White House to agree on a deficit-reduction package. 
The only hope for averting the cuts had been for the House and Senate to agree to a com­promise budget-cutting bill and send it to Bush for his signa­ture by midnight. 
Such quick work was made virtually impossible by the situ­ation on Capitol Hill. The House version of the measure was studded with dozens of contro­versial provisions -ranging from Bush's cherished capital gains tax cut to an expansion of child care services -and many lawmakers were out of town. 
Fitzwater said Bush's order would appear in Tuesday's Federal Register specifying the across-the-board cuts in most federal programs. 

University receives grants 
Special to the Observer 
The University of Notre Dame received $601,847 in grants during September for the sup­
port of research and programs.  various  
Research funds $433,493, including:  totaled  

$245,418 from the National Institute of Health for nuclear magnetic resonance studies of kinases and related enzymes by Thomas Nowak, professor of chemistry and biochemistry. 
$100,000 from the U.S. De­partment of Education for scholarships in environmental research in the Center for Bio­engineering and Pollution Con­trol, Robert Irvine, professor of civil engineering, director. 
$49,575 from the Indiana State Board of Health for re­search by Harvey Bender, pro­fessor of biological sciences, in the North Central Indiana Re­gional Genetics Center. 
$17,500 from the National Institute of Standards and Technology for study for a 
thermochemical database from the elements by Charles Alcock, Freimann professor of materi­als science and engineering. 
$8,000 from the National En­dowment for the Humanities for research by Eugene Ulrich, professor of theology, on two volumes of the Biblical Qumran (Dead Sea) Scrolls. 
$4,000 from the Association of Theological Schools for su­pervision of students in Roman Catholic ministry programs by Sister Regina Coli, associate professional specialist in theol­ogy. 
Research for service pro­
grams totaled $108, 052, in­
cluding: 
$57,172 from the National Endowment for the Humanities for work on Cicero's moral and political aspirations by Walter Nicgorski, associate professor in the Program of Liberal Stud­ies. 


RESHMAN-SOPHOMORE TRI TO 
.--EACON BOW 
BUSES LEAVING MAIN CIRCLE AT 9:00 AND 9:30 

Take a study break and come have a ball!! 

The Observer/ Bill Mowle
Grim reminder 
St. Mary's student Mary Jo Biergans ponders the tragic consequences of drinking and driving Monday as she looks on a wrecked car placed on St. Mary's Road as part of the Alcohol Awareness Week. 
Shuttle to launch despite protest 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. ­The space shuttle Atlantis, freed from technical and legal barriers, was declared ready Monday for today's launch with its nuclear-powered cargo. NASA said it expects neither weather nor demonstrators to interfere. 
"The vehicle is in good shape, the crew is ready to go fly and the weather looks like we'll have a good chance to get air­borne," NASA administrator Richard H. Truly said Monday. "It's been a long haul for this mission." 
The launch from the seaside pad at the Kennedy Space Cen­ter is scheduled for 12:57 p.m. EDT. 
Environmental activists, con­cerned that an accident could spread nuclear poison into the atmosphere, demonstrated at a gate leading to the Kennedy Space Center headquarters, and eight were arrested. 
"This is just only the begin­ning of the government's plan to use nuclear power and weapons in space, including in the Star Wars program," said Jane Brown of the Florida Coalition for Peace and Justice. 
The coalition is one of three groups that lost a suit to stop the launch in U.S. District Court last week. A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Ap­peals in Washington upheld the 

All times EDT AP 
judge Monday, saying his ruling was not appealable. 
The protesters vowed to infil­trate a 30-by-10-mile security zone and stop the launch. NASA had 200 armed security guards in the area and there were sea and airborne patrols. 
The space center security chief said perhaps the best pro­tection is the natural barrier surrounding the launch pad. 
"We have about 7,000 alliga­tors there, I don't know how many rattlesnakes, a lot of wild hogs, and probably millions of mosquitoes," Gary Wistrand said. 
Galileo, weighing 6,700 pounds, will be released from Atlantis's cargo bay 6 1/2 hours after the ship is in orbit, the start of a six-year, 2.4 bil­lion-mile journey to Jupiter, the largest planet in the solar sys­tem. 
Electricity to run the space probe will come from two nu­clear power packs, each loaded with 24.7 pounds of plutonium­
238. NASA has used such ra­dioactive fuel on 22 previous flights. Three have been in­volved in accidents, but no plu­tonium was released. 
The space agency said in court last week that detailed studies show the chances of re­lease of radioactive material are statistically low and that the environmentalists' fears are unwarranted. 
A large team of experts will be scattered around the center with detection devices to sample the air in case there is an accident as the shuttle lifts off. The Department of Energy will have an airplane aloft and an­other 150 people standing by, said agency spokesman Chris West. 
The mission was originally planned to begin in 1982, but was delayed, first by money troubles and then by the explo­sion of the space shuttle Chal­lenger. The cost of the project to date is $1.5 billion, NASA said. 

Accountancy Majors Merger Forum 

Coopers & Lybrand Deloitte & Touche Ernst & Young KMPG Peat Marwick 
will answer your questions concerning past & present mergers among CPA Firms 
TUESDAY, OCT. 17 MONTGOMERY THEATRE­LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER PIZZA RECEPTION TO FOLLOW 
page 4 The Observer Tuesday, October 17, 1989 


Irish 
continued from page 1 
Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner, who was at the meet­ing, said that satires appear frequently in Viewpoint, and that the Viewpoint policy is printed at the beginning of eaeh semester. 
Addressing the faet that no letters eritieizing the initial 
column  had  been  printed,  
Bruner said that  a  decision  
had  been  made  by  the  

editorial board to move off the specifie topie. 
"These are all very highly subjective deeisions, admit­tedly, but there's no other way they can be," Bruner said. 
Also at the meeting, Student Senator Lisa Bostwiek said she had spoken to the man­ager of Trustcorp Bank in LaFortune Center about the long lines there. The manager said that she would reeom­mend that TrustCorp put an­other automatie teller ma­chine on campus. 
The United Way is sponsor­ing a "Quarter Mile" on Fri­day, a Hall Presidents Council representative announeed. Tape will be set up between the bookstore and Dylan Hall, and donators are asked to put quarters on the tape. 
At the next senate meeting, the Saint Mary's student body president and vice president will be present, as well as the Student Senate's Notre Dame/Saint Mary's relations representative. The three plan to form a committee to work on ways to improve relations between the eampuses. 
SMC staff member receives 1989 John Shingleton award 
SECURITY BEAT 
THURSDAY, OCT.12 
8:13p.m. Notre Dame Police cited 
a California resident for 
Disregarding an Automatic Signal 

on Dorr Road at the corner of Dorr 
and Juniper. 

10:06 p.m. A Michigan resident was cited by Notre Dame Police for speeding. The defendant had been travelling 51 mph in a posted 25 mph zone on Juniper Road. 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13 

12:30 a.m. Notre Dame Police ar­rested an Illinois man at the Alumni­Senior Club. The defendant was charged with theft of a wallet and was transported to St. Joseph County Jail. 
12:17 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident reported the theft of his wallet and contents from his unlocked room sometime between 4:00 and 7:00 p.m. on 10/12. 
7:19p.m. Notre Dame Police cited a resident of Michigan City for Operating on Expired License Plates and Disregarding an Automatic Signal on Juniper Road. 
7:58 p.m. A Mishawaka man was cited by Notre Dame Police for Exceeding the Posted Speed Limit. The defendant had been travelling 44 mph in a posted 25 mph zone on Juniper Road. 
8:11 p.m. Notre Dame Police cited a South Bend woman for speeding on Juniper Road. She had been travelling 45 mph in a posted 25 mph zone. 
9:58 p.m. A Mishawaka man was cited by Notre Dame Police for False or Fictitious Registration and for Disregarding an Automatic Signal on Angela Blvd. 
SATURDAY, OCT. 14 
12:18 a.m. Notre Dame Police cited a South Bend resident for Front Seat Passenger Restraint Violation. 
12:32 a.m. An Ohio resident was cited by Notre Dame Police for Exceeding the Posted Speed Limit on Douglas Road. The defendant had been travelling 64 mph in a 30 mph zone. 
1:41 a.m. Notre Dame Police cited a resident of California for Disregarding an Automatic Signal at the corner of Juniper and Dorr Road. 

seekers, the lack of a forum for eonstruetive dialogue and ex­ehange of information, few administrative policies and an absenee of protoeol within the plaeement profession for deal­ing with third party services, and a prevailing sense of suspi­eion and proteetionism among eollege plaeement offieers. 
The report has led to presen­tations by Roberts at three MCPA regional eonferenees and 
1:55 p.m. An lllnois man was cited by Notre Dame Police for Disregarding a Stop Sign at the corner of Notre Dame Avenue and Dorr Road. 
4p.m. A faculty member reported the theft of his vehicle from the A­15 lot sometime between 2:00 and 3:55p.m. 
7:41 p.m. A South Bend resident was cited by Notre Dame Police for Exceeding the Posted Speed Limit on Juniper Road. The defendant had been travelling 45 mph in a 25 mph zone. 
7:58 p.m. Notre Dame Police 'cited a South Bend resident for speeding. The defendant had been travelling 46 mph in a posted 25 mph zone on Juniper Road. 
8:55 p.m. A South Bend man was cited by Notre Dame Police for Disregarding a Stop Sign at the corner of Bulla and Juniper Road. 
9:35 p.m. A resident of South Bend was cited by Notre Dame Police for Exceeding the Posted Speed Limit on Juniper Road. The defendant had been travelling 45 mph in a 25 mph zone. 
the College Plaeement Couneil's national convention. 
In addition, his study has re­sulted in a request from the As­soeiation for Sehool, College and University Starring for similar researeh in the area of teaeher plaeement, and the ere­ation of an offieial third party employment serviecs liaison with the MCPA's prineiples and praetiees committee. 
Special To The Observer 

Jeffrey Roberts, assistant di­reetor of counseling and eareer development at Saint Mary's College, is the reeipient of the 1989 John Shingleton Award for Innovative Researeh in Ca­reer Planning and Plaeement. 
The award, sponsored by the Midwest College Placement As­soeiation (MCPA). was pre­sented to Roberts for his re­seareh entitled "Working with Third Party Employment Ser­viees: A Review of College Plaeement Praetiees." 
Roberts' study investigated placement offiee interaetion with employment agencies, ex­ecutive search firms and job clearinghouses. 
The report found little evi­denee of opportunity for em­ployment services to meet job 

10:12 p.m. Notre Dame Police cited a South Bend resident for Speeding and Driving While Suspended on Ivy Road. 
10:18 p.m. A Colorado resident was cited by Notre Dame Police for Exceeding the Posted Speed Limit. The defendant had been travelling 44 mph in a 25 mph zone on Juniper Road. 
11 :22 p.m. A South Bend man was cited by Notre Dame Police for an Unsafe Start at the corner of Juniper Road and Angela Blvd. 
SUNDAY,OCTOBER15 
12:15 a.m. Notre Dame Police cited a New Jersey man for Disregarding an Automatic Signal on Angela Blvd. 
6:45 a.m. An employee in the South Dining Hall reported that a window had been broken by unknown vandals sometime between 7:00p.m. on 10/14 and 6:00a.m. on 10/15. The replace· men! value of the window is $50.00. 
9:50a.m. Notre Dame Security re· ceived a report of vandalism to a vehicle in the Fatima lot sometime between 3:00p.m. on 10/14 and 8:30a.m. on 10/15. Damage is estimated at $50.00. 


Calllpus Ministry and You 

0fv'1PUS 
R_E_F_L_E_C_T_IO_N_S_O_N_N_O_T_R_E_D_A_M_E_E_N_C_O_U_N_T_E_R-.---in-~~-esq-t~-c~-;~-tei;-!v-;sun-.d-ay-. had ~~~!STRY -­
an-d-1




MY NOTRE DAME EN C 0 U NTE R 
The Notre Dame Encounter Retreat Program begin.s with a three-day retreat experience designed to help participants deeply explore the meaning of their relationship with Cod and their commitment to Christian life. Each NDE weekend is directed by a team of students, faculty and staff who work together to prt>duce an exciting, chal.Jenging and reflective time away from the day­to-day problems and distractions. The following reflection was written by Amy Weber, a senior whc participated in the most recent NDE retreat experience. 
"What am I doing here? And how can 1 get out of It gracefully?" Those were my only thoughts as I walked through the back-door of Badin Hall Into the Campus Ministry office on Friday afternoon. I had signed up to go on a Notre Dame Encounter while all of my friends were signing into their hotel rooms in Ann Arbor. The Irish were to be playing Michigan and I was to be praying with 40 people I had not yet met. 
As we walked around the lake to what would be our weekend home, we sang what I considered to be a pretty silly song. l thought: "'f 1 can hide behind this bush for a while, no one'll miss me and I can run back to campus when the group passes by." But then a girl introduced herself. She knew my name. I coufdn't hide. 
We got to the Fatima retreat house and checked in. My assigned roommate must have gotten away with the bush option -she never showed. The weekend began. 
In small groups, we began talking about why we were here. The groups leaders were persistent. l wouldn't get away with just saying: "1 couldn't afford Ann Arbor." So I told the corny truth: Everyone I ever talked with about NDE tofd me how wonderful they were and how everyone should malce one. You know the statndard line: 'Oh, you have just got to go on one.' So I signed up," I said cheerfully. 


But I was really a little scared. I feared a weekend of prayer. My brother had warned me: "All your buddies will be In Michigan for the game, and you'll spend three days praying?" but I did want to see what it was all about. I decided 1 would just quietly take things in. This was my time away, and I would relax. 
Wrong. Soon, 1 found myself so interested in the people 1 was and the lectures 1 was that I 
just had to participate. 1 wanted to get involved. 
The atmosphere was contaltious. an.d I WaJ\ted to 
be part of lt. 
The talks were given by other students who had 
already made the retreat and were now members 
of the team -they were REAL. They made me 
think. They made me wonder. 
My father had told me that If the retreat was a good one, It would not give me many answers but it would ask me a Jot ofquestions. It was a good one. I had plenty of questions. So did everyone else, I found, as I kept going back to my ama,l.l group after each talk and dfscuaa things and ask even ~re question•. 
Too, there was dme for me to go off by myself and ask still more questions ancf try to hear the answers. I sat by the lake and it lelt like the campus was millions of miles away, Instead of just beyond the trees. I could think of my own life and of my own life with others. 
Butenou~hthUUdngiTherewasalotoffun.The 
evening activities were broken up with fun group activities that gave me a chance to see the various sides of my new friends, and for them to see various sides of me. Without being distracted by externals, It's really possible to get to know others in a short period of time. And to care, and become memories of a wonderful weekend and,. I hoped, 
a few answers to the many questions raised over 
the past days. 
When I got back to campus, I called my brother, to Jet him know what had happened during my 55 hours away. 1 hadn't spent three days praying. Well, we did go to mass a few times, and had a penance service and many group prayer services. And those times were very special. But on top of that I had spent a Jot of time thinking. questioning and finding answers to many questions I had never raised before. 
And I had made some new friends; people I hadn't known on Friday afternoon now knew me in ways few others did, and I them. I see some of them when 1 walk across the campus, in the dining hall and In some classes. And next week we're getting together for dinner. 
It won't be the same as huddling in the small circle to pray or talk like we did at Fatima...lt never could be the same. The time I spent with those people was Incredible; something I will keep In my heart forever. 
When I introduce my new friends to my buddies who travelled to Michigan for the weekend, I can't help but laugh. Inevitably, the same corny words come out of my mouth: "Oh, you have just got to go on one." 
Brought to you weekly by the Office of Campus 
Tuesday, October 17, 1989 The Observer page 5 
If you're a bourgeois-pig scalper, I NEED 1 SMU TICKET CALL ADOPTION · Facing pregnancy They now refer to him as Rollie don1 want your damn tix. I'll pay a PATTY X3468 PERSONALS alone? Let us help. Childless because of what came to pass 
just person a fair price for USC ga couple offering loving home and But disclosing his name is sheer or stud's. secure future for your infant. c folly 

Class 
HiAgl

continued from page 8 Please call Marty x2n-4392 Confidential -medical and legal For the colonel is after his ___I WANTEDII2 TIX FOR USC-NO expenses paid. Call collect 
MIAMI FLIGHTS* MIAMI FLIGHTS

TRADE 1 Pm GA FOR 1 USC Trade 1 Pitt stutic for your Navy anytime, Sandy and Kurt (317)
GAME WILL PAY UP TO $75 EA Round-trip airfares to Miami or
GA CALL 1655 OR 4224 stutic Sean X2311 . CALL ROGER (213)745-0861 894-5748. YOU ARE MY SUNSHINE, MY
Fort lauderdale. Depart ONLY SUNSHINE 1111111November 23 from Midway

I need 3 GAs for the SMU game, NEED 4 USC GAs HELP! NEED A RIDE TO MPLSIST. PAUL Have a swell day Mamba! 
(Chicago ); return November 27 to 

section 1-5 or 36. Also need one Call ERIN #3622 I NEED TIX FOR Pm GAME. FOR OCT. BREAK! WILL HELP 
Midway (Chi.) . $239 for students, 

stud tx for the same game. Call 4 GAS OR STUDS. WITH GAS $$ CALL LARA 
$265 for others. Tix sold on first ­

Jerry at x4113. HELP!HELPIHELP! My parents X4526 OR MICHELLE X2696 
CALL LIZ X2674 BABYCAKES DAYCAMPER, 
come, first-serve basis, and arehavenever been to a N.D. game QUACK! DID I SURPRISE YOU?

non-refundable. Anthony Travel 

need G.A.'s for PITT (one stu.) One room -one telephone -Four Congratulations to the Chicago IT'S BEEN 2 YEARS AND 4
1-800-7DOMERS

Need PITTtix .PLEASE call 284-5529 dudes -many tickets needed. Cubs! Without a doubt, the most MONTHS NOW SINCE I FOUND Stud&GA Adam: needs USC GA's (2) enjoyable team of 1989. YOU AT NERD CAMP. SHOULD
S.W.B.H.C. MEMBERS UNITEII
I Need 4 GA's for Navy! Call 284­5532 PLEASE! 

Jilx1915 Brian and Pat: need mucho USC WE THANK MOM AND DAD? 
student tix ROOM 108 WAS GREAT! I 
RIDERS NEEDED TO 

Rob: needs Navy GA's (4) HELP!II Need a ride home and PROMISE FOREVER AND A DAY.
PITTSBURGH FOR OCT. BREAKNeed 7 NAVY GAs! Julie X3141 

Call #3598 to help any or all of us. back for October Break. Columbus THIS KU CHIC LOVES YOU LOTS!
JOHN 277-6558 

/Canton /Zanesville areas. Will BABE-BABENEED 2 USC GA'S. CALL MIKE NEED USC GA's 
My 3 year old niece is coming to help with driving, tolls, and gas.
312-871·3270. 
$2819 visit . She needs 4 tickets for Kristina x4902 HELP! Please sell me your USC USC. Student or GA's will do. ticketsll Call Tina at x4840NEED 4 PITT GA'S & 2 USC TIX. One USC stud ticket for sale. Call Please call Mike x1612 Molly, Mary, Coyla, Theresa and COLLEGE REPUBLICAN 
MONEY NO PROBLEM! MIKE Kenny, x1743. 
Andi-MEETING TONIGHT AT 8PM Anyone interested in taking a busX1236. 
You're the greatest! love, a Fan of IN THE N.D. ROOM OF to and from DC for fall break show My brother will trade beautiful ex­
the Quint LAFORTUNE up at the Flanner Hall pit at 8PM on wife for ONE Navy or SMU GA 
TRADE: NEED SMU FOR PITT Tues night. RT tix is $80, One way Nick x2055 ST. TIX #1765 There once was a boy named Ted is$45. 
Need SMU Stu. $$ Call Mary lee who was a real zer 
x2625 
Need 4 GA's and 8 Student SELLING: ONE USC AND ONE One night came a minor tixs for USC PITT STUD TICKET BEST sporting black lace wares I NEED USC and PITT GAs badly 
WE NEED NAVY GA's 

call Scott or Todd at 2n-9469 OFFER He later felt finer 
CALL JAY OR JIM #1942Will PAY BIG $$$$$$ or trade for 

CALL2286. after running his hand thru her hair 
USC weekend hotel Reservations St. Edward's Hall Lawn SYR · Call Dan at 271-9821 SCHOOLHOUSE ROCKS! 
3 PITT STUDS. BEST OFFER I NEED 1 OR 2 PITT GA'SIX3801 To the girl in all GREEN at theCALL JIM AT 2n-3276 Christi Corbett Have you got the huddle Sunday night: I'm kicking 

I NEED ONE USC TIX o--s? BILLY JONES
myself for not talking to you, so
$$ FATHER WILL KILL SON IF HE NEED MANY PITT STUD TIX!
CALL2n-7260 

please respond here if you'd like HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY!!!!
DOES NOT GET A GA TO THE ·DAVE 234-4569 to meet sometime (or come to thePITT GAME. HELP ME OUT! 
STILL NEED 1 USC STUD. WILL You know how the old saying goes: huddle again this week). I'm really Donl worry, even though you did 
CALL JOHN AT 3632 OR 36261$$ FOR SALE:
TRADE SMU AND$. KATHLEEN "Women, you can't live with a nice guy, just a little shy not "toss your cookies" Saturday, I
2 USC STUD. TIX.
X4930 them ...pass the beer nuts." sometimes. --the guy in GREEN will make sure that you do tonight!
NEED 5 GA TIX FOR NAVY. CALL BEST OFFER. 3370. 
· Norm Peterson "Cheers" I hope you enjoy as "memorable"M.T. CREIGHTON 272-0498 OR · official member: FCGHC of a 21st as I did! 

239-6661. need 2 NAVY ga's. will buy or trade Help, I need a ride to the St. Louis 
for USC studs. x3202 area for fall break. Will help with "Your C.J.'s alley buddy"$$$$$$$$$$$$$ SMU STUD. TIX NEEDED. 20n. 
gas. Tom x3132 or 3120 I NEED 1 USC GA· I HAVE PITT, RIDE NEEDED TO THEhave 2 USC studs--will trade for SMU STU. TIX(ON THE 50) AND A COLUMBUS AREA AFTER THE
NAVY ga's. x3202 NEEDED:
LOT OF$$$$$$$· CALL ANDY AT .....................................
USC GAME AND RETURNING 2 PITTGA's 3114. 

FOR THE PITT GAME. 

For Sale: 1 USC & PITT stud tix. FOR MOM AND DAD
$$$$$$$$$$$$$ WILLING TO SHARE EXPENSES
Call x3770 I NEED USC, MIAMI, & All HOME #2030 COLLEGE REPUBLICAN GAME TIX 272-6306 CALL BETSY AT 277-4322 MEETING ON TUES. 10/17NEED 3 OR 4 USC GA TX. GOOD 
NEED 3 USC GA's & HAVE LOTS AT8pm INTHEN.D.ROOM
BUCKS. 233-2651. 
OF MONEY. LET'S DEAL! x3597 NAVYNAVYNAVYNAVYNAVY OF LAFORTUNE 
I need 5 G.A.'s SMT NEED 1 -3 USC tickets and 1 -5 or anything you have together ILUB NEED 3 USC STUDENT TX. $$$$ 
233-2651. 
Navy tickets. Will Pay $$$. Call NAME YOUR PRICE !II! BLUE Marty at x1868. Call Kyle-#3775 MJM "2-B COMMUNITY"
Danny, you bum! So you're finally 19. I am still 

Sophomore Class is raffling off 2 THANK YOU ALL SO MUCH FORolder than you, ha ha. I told you packages to the NO/Miami game ... MAKING MY 21st SO SPECIAL!! I that I would have something here HELP!!! 
HOPE YOU ALL ENJOYED IT AS
NEED 2 TICKETS NO-USC GAME. for you, HAPPY BIRTHDAY! It's 
NEED 4 USC STD TIX 1 for $1 MUCH AS I DID. YOU ARE "THE

PARENTS DRIVING 400 MILES only a few days late! 
WILL PAY GOOD $1 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 3 lor $2 BEST" AND I CANNOT TELL YOU
FROM OHIO TO SEE GAME. GEORGE 1681 WANTED: MIAMI TICKETS Your older bro, 5 for $3 HOW MUCH EVERYTHING YOU
PLEASE CALL MARY LOU OR John
CALL MATT AT 1961 10 lor $5 DID MEANT TO ME!! 
TOM GLASER 234-0610. FOR SALE 2 Pitt stud. tix. We want $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ THANKS!! 
your money. Call x2237 

Call Sophomore Class Office for ELIZABETH
I WILL TRADE USC STUDENT Need 2 USC Students Tix more information.
TICKETS FOR USC GA'S!!! NEED 2 SMU tix. 2 stud or 1 stud & Call Bob 271-5681. 
Recent Alumnus desires to rent aCALL TIM X1790 OR X1805 
1 GA. Please call 2237 I know this is a Mile attempt 
room in male dorm during USC but I need 2 USC GA'2 
weekend. Will pay $ Call Rudy 1·Show your spirit and stay dry this 
NEEDUSCTIX Please call, Michael @4521 
800-327-8630 TOP$ 
Saturday by waring your 
DON 232-9469 

NOTRE DAME RAIN PONCHO. AUDITIONS!!II AUDITIONSIIII All HOME GA'S 
Cost is only $2.50. Get them at the for
I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S AND 1 PITT HAVE MIAMI GA'sl NEED PITT 312-920-9350 Information Desk in LaFortune. TINY ALICE
GA. CALL LARRY AT X.1864. GA's! LET'S MAKE A DEAL! CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable Call Robin at X4206! atmosphere, daily & weekly 
More and more are doing ill Tues. & Wed., Oct. 17 &18 7:00pm to 11 :OOpm 
specials, pool table, English darts, Lab Theatre in Washington Hall
PITT STUD TKTS 4 SALE!!! CALL I NEED USC TIX, CALL JOE AT HELP! I NEED 4 USC TIX (2 GA'S and great company. 234-3541 
BETHEREI\11
2n-6896 leave name /ph.#/ bid 271-9130 2 STUD.) CALL284-5334. There are still some of you who 
will decide by 1 0119. need to pick up your VALUE October Break CHECK COUPON BOOK that your Ride needed to Detroit Area for parents purchased. Get them at October Break. Will share gas. 
HELP! I NEED 1 PITT GA ! DAD 

the Information Desk in Lafortune. Want to leave after USC game and TWO USC STUD TICKETS FOR WILL PAY BIG $$1 CALL Al return anytime after Thursday. 
NEED 1 USC GA OR STUDENT
X1081 RIDE TO WASHINTON D. C.
SALE. BEST OFFER BY 8:00 WED. HELP! I need a ride to Mpls area
TICKET. CALL MARY-FRANCES NEEDED FOR BREAK
Call Eric x1161 or Karl x1153 for break. Will help with driving, Please call
@X2909.

WE NEED PITI GA'SI will share expenses 
gas, tolls. Please call Jackie Matt @x!650
Call Pete-1643 or Mike-1672. caiiiNGO at 2348 or 2355
x4161 

Mr. Paul Murrey of the IBM CORPORATION wi 11 be on campus to discuss career o p port u n i t i e s for El ectri c81 Engineers/Computer Science, Mech8ni c81 Engineers 8nd Chemi c81 Engineers in the New Vork, Mid Hudson Valley Region (East Fi shki 11, Poughkeepsie, Kingston, and Sterling Forest) The session is scheduled for October 19 7-9 pm 
rm. 1061 Cushing Hall of En g1 n e e r1 ng 
Impress people 

-~-------~---­







Viewpoint 
Tuesday, October 17, 1989 
page 6 



P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Cocc1a Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor.. .Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager .....Molly Killen VIewpoint Editor ..Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager . . ..Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager ....... Alison Cocks Accent Editor... .John Blasi Systems Mgr...... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ...Eric Bailey OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor. ....Christme Gill Controller... ..Anne Lindner 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College It does not necessanly reflect the pol­ICies of the adm1n1strat1on oi e1ther mst1tut1on The news is reported as accurately and ob­Jecttvely as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1n10n of the matonty of the follow1ng· Ed1tor-1n-Ch1ef. Managrng Ed1tor. Executive News Editor. Viewpo1nt Editor. Sports Edrtor. Accent Edrtor. Photo Ed1tor. Samt Mary's Edrtor Commentarres. letters. and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of thelf authors. Column space 1s available to all members of the community and the free expressron of vary1ng opmrons on campus, through letters. rs encouraged 
Honor Code serves University in name only 
By Jason Carroll 

During the week of orienta­tion this year, all freshmen were required to watch an "educational" video. This video was full of many caring people who described a pleasant, non­threatening code of honor. Ev­ery student was given a fancy pamphlet, printed in blue and gold, so that no true Domer could object. For the very few students who still might not have been utterly enthralled by this new gift to our precious moral education, two endorse­ments removed any remaining doubts. This presentation of the Honor Code was, at best, in­complete. Some might even say new students were deliberately misled. 
Last spring, I was asked to appear in the Honor Code video and give my thoughts on the subject. I was somewhat sur­prised at this invitation, be­cause I had been an open dis­
senter. I was told that the video would present both sides of the issue. But sometime between my interview and the final edit­ing, the administration must have vetoed that novel idea of giving equal time to the opposi­tion. My 15-minute interview was sliced to a few seconds of a watered-down objection. The video, containing only one view, could not be called education, but rather, propaganda. 
One must ask, "What was the motivation behind the decision to leave out half of the facts?" The most convincing arguments arc made stronger by offering an opponent's objections, and then refuting all protests. In this way, questions can be an­
swered, and doubts can be re­moved. So why did the administration 
I not present criticisms? Maybe
I they were intentionally decep­
I I tive. They would rather have an 
I I 
I 
DOONESBURY 

ignorant group of followers 
than an informed group of 
protestors. Or maybe they real­ized just how powerful the ob­jections are. They couldn't come up with a solid rebuttal, so they avoided the complaints completely. Possibly, they didn't want to show any evidence of the enormous divide between the administration and the stu­dents. But the exact reason for withholding information does not really matter. The point 
here is that the students are worse off by not knowing both sides, and the administration, not so coincidentally, is better ofT for not telling both sides. 
In spite of the administra­tion's intentions, one scene in the Honor Code video was acci­dentally informative. This scene is a dramatization of a student who witnesses another student cheating on a test. He is faced with the dilemma of whether or not to report this fellow stu­dent. The audience can hear the thoughts of the witness as he deliberates. The witness' thoughts, unedited, would be a successful skit in the Keenan Revue. Everyone watching the video was laughing at this idiot who was going to "help" his fellow student by turning him in. This scene is a clear indica­tion of the administration's un­fortunate failure to gauge stu­dent opinion. The people who put this scene in the video are living in fantasyland. 
In the back of the Code of Honor Handbook, two en­dorsements are presented. The first of these is written by Pro­fessor Gary M. Kern, an assis­tant professor in the College of Business. He suggested that the teacher should not be required to "use various methods to dis­suade students from cheating," because "the teacher's imposi­tion of these tactics may appear to reduce the level of trust as­sumed to exist between the teacher and the students." His statement obviously implies that reporting a student de­stroys trust. He apparently be­lieves that the accused could only feel resentment toward his accuser. 

His most shocking view is that this undeniable burden should be forced upon the stu­dents. He clearly does not want to deal with the problem him­self. Evidently, he would much rather have the trust between the students be "reduced." But Professor Kern should at least be credited for his honesty. He does show how the Honor Code can destroy the trust between the students, and therefore weaken the Notre Dame family, while the administration is merely spewing rhetoric about cheaters who will graciously thank the "narcs" for their moral conviction. 
The second endorsement was a well-written, convincing arti­cle, which was in support of some other honor code. Jeremy Lane wrote about honor codes in the professional world, specifically about the Code of Professional Responsibility, which binds him as a lawyer. He wrote that he has reported three people in his career, each incident involving "serious vio­lation." On many other occa­sions, he has simply " discussed the situation with the (offender) ... so that there would be no repetition." He would, therefore, be in direct violation of the Code of Honor here at Notre Dame. 
We have the all-encompassing clause called the "non-tolerance policy." If one student suggests the use of a synonym on his friend's paper, and the paper is turned in without a footnote, any witness is obligated to re­port them both for plagiarism. This is not an exaggeration. The word was clearly not the author's idea, but he claimed it as his own work. Therefore, the author definitely plagiarized. The witness is absolutely obli­gated to report the offense, ei­ther to the· instructor for guid­ance or to a member of the Honesty Committee; silence is not a legal option. The Honor Code does not allow for even the most minor offense to be overlooked. There can be no in­terpretation. There is only black and white. That is why virtually everyone at this Uni­versity has broken the Honor Code. 
Simply stated, the Honor Code, as it is now, is not a good thing for the students of this University. If both pro and eon arguments were presented side by side, a vast majority of the students would come to the same conclusion. In fact, many students disagree with the poli­cies of the Honor Code after having heard only the adminis­tration's view. 

The reason for implementing the Honor Code, though, is simple. The administration's first priority is not the stu­dents, but the University itself. This school will last long past any one students' matricula­tion, and therefore, the admin­istration's concern must lie with the school, not the stu­dents who just happen to be here now. The Honor Code en­hances the image of the Univer­sity. so it's effect on the stu­dents is almost inconsequential. 
As the image of the University changes, the students who will be attracted to the school will also change. As time passes, the student body will evolve from the trusting group it is today, to a group of people who are very willing to stab their friends in the back. I am sure that is exactly what the admin­istration wants. This Honor Code will serve them well. 
I would normally expect a re­sponse to such harsh accusa­tions, but I am sure that the administration is not listening. 
Jason Carroll is a junior in the College of Engineering. 
Viewpoint welcomes letters and columns on a variety of issues. Send your thoughts to: Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 
46556. 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Nothing makes a person more productive than the last minute.' 

Anonymous 
~ ~ ~ ~-~ ~ ---~-----~------­
~-r



Accent
Tuesday, October 17, 1989 page 7 

Special to The Observer Cast in New York and fully rable music and believable dramatic lighting as the tragicstaged by Carrico, the play is characters. and frightening story races to A national touring production billed as a tribute to the origi­Playwright John Kenley col­its inevitable climax. of "Phantom of the Opera-The nal Leroux story about a de­laborated with six-time Emmy
The musical play
Play" will be presented formed musical genius and his Award-winning writer Robert Tickets for "Phantom of the Wednesday, Oct. 18 at 7:30 ill-fated love for the beautiful brings the creature Thomas Noll to bring to the Opera" have been on sale since 
p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium young soprano, Christine. The stage Leroux's sinister, masked Sept. 25 at the Saint Mary's at Saint Mary's College. The tale was immortalized by the [Phantom] back to Phantom, who reigns terror box office, located in 
play is a musical based on the 1925 movie version starring life by presenting upon the Paris Opera in quest O'Laughlin Auditorium, which legendary Gaston Leroux novel Lon Chaney as the ominous of the love of Christine. Music is open from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., which is set in the elegant halls phantom. him amidst by David Gooding and from the Monday through Friday. and eerie catacombs of the classical repertoire has been 
Tickets are also available atLeroux based his book on ac­resplendent stage
Paris Opera House. selected for its style and period Tracks in South Bend,
tual events revolving around an 
settings, authenticity as well as for its Nightwinds in Niles, apparent magical and diaboli­
The performance, part of a promising appeal to SuperSounds Record 
cross-country tour by Carrico cal man-creature who haunted memorable music theatergoers. The Phantom Connection in Elkhart and the Paris Opera during the late 
Productions, Inc. of Detroit, moves through the elegant 
and believable World Records in Elkhart. Visa 19th century. The musical play 
features a troupe of some 30 upper levels of the opera house and MasterCard orders are ac­
actors, operatic singers, brings the creature back to life characters. and the dank fog beneath. The cepted by phone at (219) 284­by presenting him amidst res­
dancers and technicians, who many stage settings are en­4626.
plendent stage settings, memo-
will take the play to 40 cities. hanced with special effects and 

Big Audio Dynamite 
New album, Megatop Phoenix, disappointment to fans 
JOHN LANE 
accent writer 
Megatop Phoenix is the new album from Big Audio Dynamite. Although it contains a few good songs, overall, Megatop Phoenix is a weak al­bum. 
B.A.D. is led by Mick Jones, who played guitar and wrote some of the songs for The Clash, a band that grew out of the post-punk movement in England in the late 70s. When Jones left The Clash in the mid­80s, he decided to form B.A.D. with the intention of combining his rock roots with elements of funk. In a move similar to what Paul Weller did when he left The Jam to form the eclectic Style Council, Jones wanted more diversity in his music. 
B.A.D. has moved fast, putting out four albums in five years. However, Megatop Phoenix is the band's worst album so far. 
The quality of music in Megatop Phoenix Drops drasti­cally from previous B.A.D. al­bums. There is too much com­puter-generated music and syn­thesizers and not enough gui­tars, like in the songs "Rewind" and "James Brown." The result is a sort of neo-disco sound that betrays Jones' harder­edged past. 
Another problem with Megatop Phoenix is the use, or overuse, of additional content brought in from outside sources. B.A.D. uses lines from old movies or television in the middle of many of their songs, apparently to complement thtl lyrics. They did this often on their first two albums and sparingly on their last one. But this tactic is in full force on Megatop Phoenix. For instance, the track "Mick's a Hippie Burning" is simply a compila­tion of short scenes from vari­ous old movies with a little mu­sic tossed in. This disrupts the continuity of the album and will most likely annoy the listener. 
Megatop Phoenix does con­tain some good tracks, how­ever. "Contact" is a classic 
B.A.D. song, featuring an up­tempo beat and strong vocals by Jones. In "London Bridge," Jones sings about his love for London despite its economic 

decline. Other highlights include "Around the Girl m ~0 Ways" and "Union Jack," which fea­tures good guitars and drums. 
Despite these songs, though, Megatop Phoenix remains a be­low-par album. Longtime fans might want to purchase this al­bum, but anyone hoping to ac­quaint themselves with B.A.D. would do well to buy one of their earlier albums, such as This is Big Audio Dynamite or No. 10 Upping Street, rather than Megatop Phoenix. 
--~------------­
page 8 The Observer Tuesday, October 17, 1989 
,­
The Observer accepts ctass1ileds ev;,ry bustness day from 10 am to 3.30 p m at the Notre Dame office 314 LaFor1une and from 12 30 to 3 p m at the Samt Maris off1ce. Haggar College Center Deadline tor next-day class1f1eds 1s 3 p m All class1tieds must be 
prepaid. The charge IS 2 cents pe1 character per day 1nclud1ng spaces
Classifieds 
MY BROWN LEATHER JACKET Need Navy Tix I'M SELLING A USC STUDENT I NEED USC STUDENT TIX
NOTICES TICKETS
AND DUKE SWEATSHIRT $$No Issue TICKET-BEST OFFER BY AS WELL AS GA'S WERE TAKEN FROM THE Jen 284-411 0 TUESDAY AT MIDNIGHT. CALL CALL LLOYD AT x1684 TYPING ROCKNE BUILDING ON 1 0/5 Travel Tour Operator needs CAROL AT 4220. 
Pickup & Delivery TICKETS WANTED FOR PITT-NO
BETWEEN 2 AND 3 O'CLOCK. tickets tor all N.D. games-home 
SELL US 2 U.S.C. TIX NOWI GAME. 312-655-4595. 
277-7406 THEY HAVE MUCH PERSONAL and away, especially MSU, USC I NEED PITT GA'SIIIII VALUE TO ME-PLEASE and Miami. MY PARENTS WILL KILL ME IF I
Premium price paid. RETURN, NO QUESTIONS Immediate case available. Will 
call J. or T. @ 1870. DONT FIND THEM TICKETSII I WANT TO TRADE TWO PITT PANDORA'S BOOKS 608 howard GA'S FOR TWO USC GA'S. CALL
ASKED. REWARD GIVEN. trade for all major sporting events PLEASE CALL CHRIS AT 283­
3 blks. from NO campus 233-2342 4220 IF YOU CAN HELP MEl AMY 283-1265.
including Final 4, Indy 500 and 
$$$ FOR YOUR BOOKS NEED 2 USC TIX. MAURA 
PITTGA'SI WE BUY AND SELL USED FOR RENT 288-0885.
bowl game, etc. Will also buy 
season tickets. Please call Dave at 
TEXTBOOKS 11111111111111111 If you don' sell me 9 PITT GAs, 1
1-800-828-8955today. 
Two Pitt student tickets will BLOW UP THE STADIUM AND2 BEDROOM APT. WITH A RIVER 
PITT TIX PITT TIX PITT TIX PITT THEN NOONE CAN WATCH
Spee-Oee I'll buy any tickets for any home For Sale, Call x1662
VIEW. 8 MINS. FROM CAMPUS. 
NEED 4 GA'S CALL TIM #1699 THE GAMEIIII Pete L x1791Wordprocessing 233-7631 ' 234-8743. game, or Miami. 
I WANT YOU TO MAKE MY DAY!

237-1949 call JEFF at 239-3714, BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY leave a message. Thanks. SEX! SEXI SEX! NEED 2 GAs FOR NAVY 
Typing. Term papers, resumes, 
219-291-7153 CALL ANN 284-4223 etc. on IBM PC. Call Sue's SMU Tickets 
I NEED 1 USC AND 1 PITTSecretarial Service at 299-0063. 

ROOMMATE NEEDED TICKET. GA'S OR STUD. Students and/or GA's needed for I need MANY GA's for both USC
Turt Crk Twnhse CALL MIKE AT X.1751 theSMUGame
WORDPROCESSING Need TXTS All Games call Bill and Pitt. Call Joe at255-mo
277-8398
272-8827 277-3653 before you leave for fall break.
Money's No Object!!! NEED MANY USC GA'S OR STUD.

ADOPTION. Happily married white 
FOR SALE TIX X232-9857 Call Jeff@ x1150
couple wishes to share love and Call FRANK 287-5320 
security with newborn. Expenses 
I NEED USC TIX paid. legal. Please call Margaret NEED GAS FOR PITT,
ATTENTION-GOVERNMENT 
2GA's and Jerry collect 718-858-6250 NAVY & SMU $$$$ 
DESPERATELY SEEKING 3 USC
SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. I NEED USC, AND NAVY GA'S 
2STUDS evenings and weekends. CALL TOM & MARTY 
TICKETS, PLEASE HELP CALL
Fords. Mercedes, Corvettes, FOR MY PARENTS COMING IN KRISTI -3778
Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1-FOR THEIR FIRST FOOTBALL X2741
X3185 
602-838-8885 EXT. A6262. GAMES. I ALSO NEED TWO PITTTYPING AVAILABLE. 
STUDENT TICKETS. PLEASE Young attractive male, looking to
287-4082. 
I need 1 USC Ticketstart relationship w~h Pitt GAs

OW ticket to Newark CALL JOHN AT 3586.
NEED 3 PITT GA TIX call Dan x1417
Call Mike @ 2288 if interested. 
Sun. after USC b/o John x4052 NEED GA AND STU TIX FOR USC 
WILLA CATHER OSCAR WILDE. $$ CALL: 4272 
GERTRUDE STEIN. 
PARENTS' ANNIVERSARYAND PITT. CALL CHRIS HAVE USC STUDENTS

TCHAIKOVSKY. WANTED: USC TIX BETWEEN NEED 2 USC GA'S BAD
Travel Certificate,UA AT x1067 BEST OFFER
DO YOU BELONG TO THIS ELITE THE 20 YD. LINES. WILL BUY OR CALL MIKE 1271-8860 
KYLE 1387value of $427; can use in part sell 

below 400 call271-8401 or Lib936 GROUP? 
CONTACT US. EXCHANGE END ZONE SEATS+ NEED 3 TICKETS FOR ND-USC
I have USC & Pitt studs. Best otter.

Gl.ND/SMC CASH OR TICKETS TO NAVY, PLEASE HELPI CALL COLLECT
USC NAVY USC NAVY USC
PITT STUD FOR SALE. Call Chris@ x2727. 
P.0.80X194 PITT OR SMU. 800-323-7687. 216-247-2828 RODGER
I desperately need tickets toSARA X4940NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 the USC AND NAVY games.
NEED USC TIX JOE 1714 
Have USC & Pitt St. tickets Please help mel! I Call Kate at 'need 2 USC ga's Rick #1795 the Government? Call for factsl1-Call Tom 4160 x1337. 
Is It True....Jeeps for $44 through USC NAVY USC NAVY USC I need GA tixs for all home games 312-742-1142 Ext. 7316.
ROCKET SHIRTS ? 
Esp. for USC $$ 284-5227 Patty

277-5647 EVENINGS NEED 8 USC TIX TANDY COMPUTER, COLOR I need USC tix
CALL'Z2.07 
I need USC tickets and am willing I need 2 USC GA's 
to pay almost any price for them. Please call . Mary Kay 284-5227
MONITOR, DOT MATRIX Call Matt 
PRINTER. #1791 
DESK/HUTCH & CHAIR
Typing. Overnight service. NEED 2 TICKETS FOR NOTRE 
Call Kate at133711111

277-6091 DAME/USC GAME. PLEASE CALL 
usc usc usc usc usc usc
$2,000.00 OR BEST OFFER COLLECT 619/565-8303. ASK HELP! BROS COMING FROMFOR LARRY CORRIGAN. 
Can I please have 2 GA's and 1TEXAS,NEED 2 USC GA'S X2482 student ticket for the USC football


LOST/FOUND I ,CALL::.;;~;"' 
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S I need 1 Navy stud. ticket game and 4 student tickets for theNEED USC-Have PITTWILL PAY TOP$ Call Jim at x1192 Pittsburgh one? I'm Tom and myWill trade or pay $$1!
LOST: Signet Ring with in~ials PLEASE CALL KEVIN x3170 phone number is 1128. Thank you.
1333 Kay.

WFH lost in south quad by Alumni. 
''"'NEW AD'**" PITT, USC and SMU GAs needed. 
Important sentimental 
INEEDIIIIII Call Matt at #3361 or #3362. NEED 2 or 4 Pitt GA's 
reasons. Please call Bill at1553. NEED 2 GA'S FOR BOTH PITT. 
Call Eric x1008

2USCGA'sll FOR SALE: Pitt ST tic.
You will be rewarded, I promise AND NAVY CALL CHERIE 4969
2 SMU GA's or studs x2386 Make otter.
Thank you very much. 
NEED 1 USC & 1 PITT GA CALL
A ride to Pittsburgh after USC CAN YOU BELIEVE IT???
I need a USC GA worse than all the ROUNDTRIP PLANE TIX TO N.Y. 16550R4224
Call Debbie 1860 or 3735. 
rest of these lying schmucks II 
NEED smu ga's 277-5934 ONLY$220!!1 

LOST: John, 277-7450. PLEASEI CALL CHRIS AT x1688 SOON I NEED PITT, SMU GA'S Silver chain-link bracelet. 
PLEASE HELP MElli NEED RIDE NEED LOTS OF NAVY TIX-GA'S BREAK'S ALMOST HERE! PLEASEII 12819 
Lost somewhere between ALUMNI SR. CLUB MEMBERS... .. .................................... 
TO ST. LOUIS 1o-22. WILL or STUD. CALL TOM-1694. 
Fartey Hall and D2 parking MIAMI trip rattle lor members only 
SHARE EXPENSES. CALL 2237.
lot. on Thurs Oct. 19th 10:00 pm 2 Tixs to all Home Games for sale 
Please call Chris at1836 win a trip for two to game, flight 272-5092 
Gt'Bat sen1imental value. tickets and hotel. It's not too late to 
$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$*$'
NEED BABYSITTER FOR buy a membership $25 checks 
$' IF YOU HAVE A USC STUDENTA.M.HOURS M-F. SALARY 
only. Membership has it's HAVE USC Stud Tix
NEGOTIABLE. CALL 277-7262. Need 2 Navy Student Tickets TICKET TO SELL PLEASE CALL 
A $20 reward for manila envelope privledgeslll X1715 Call Norm x4785. Big money! USA4937 
(8 112 x 11 112) containing Best Offer 
.... CASH TODAY •••• for USCSpanish translations in process. 
,PITT tix stu or ga -Mark 271­
Call 239-6166 or evenings 277-You need TXTS. call277-3653
5691. Need U S C Ga have Pitt Ga. St NEED NAVY TIXIII HAVE SMU 
7043. 
+ Cash Call x2266 Pete FOR SALE Ill X2880 
Will Trade 2 SMU GA'sWANTED-ride to Ohio on 60-90 E.

LOST: THE FACE PART OF A Need student tickets for USC. For 2 Navy GA's
leaving after USC game, will share
HELBROS QUARTZ WATCH. IT Will pay$$$$. Call Bill, 271-8483 Also Need 1 Navy Stud Please Help! Need 15 USC tix +expenses please call Kevin x1647
FELL OFF THE BAND, ETC. x1704 ride FROM PHILLY after break. 
IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL I NEED 1 USC GA Call Dan 271-0972. NEED 4 NAVY GA'sOVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo.
KRISTEN AT 14865 AND I WILL Please call Tim @ 1772 PLEASE CALL KARINSummer, Yr. round, All Countries,
THINK YOU ARE COOL. I need a PITT GA. Pay $$$. Call x1321
All fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bill x1103BX 52-Corona Del Mar CA 92625 FOR SALE:1 USC & 1 PITT ST TIK It isn'tto late to sell your USC
IF YOU FOUND A BASKETBALL CHRISX3360 NEED ANY PITT GA'S $$$$$$$$ tickets. Call Ken A. @ 239-7666 NEED 2 OR 3 USC GA'S
NEAR THE BOOKSTORE MUCHO DINERO$ BOB Q X1409
FEDERAL, STATE, AND CIVIL or 232-0329 after 6 p. $$$$$ 
1 PITTSTUD SERVICE JOBS! NOW HIRING
COURTS ON SATURDAY NIGHT 
$$$$ TRACY X2613 THIS AREA! $10,271-$84,157. 
OCTOBER 7, I WOULD REALLY I need USC,SMU and Miami GAs NEED 2 PITT GA'S. CALL SANDY 
APPRECIATE GETTING IT BACK. Mike 287-3087 X4012
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS! CALl1­
NEED 4USC 315-733-6062 EXT 12382H FOR
IT WAS MY ROOMMATE'S. 
We Need USC Studs or GAs 2NAVYTHANKS FOR YOUR HELP. CALL 
CURRENT LISTING. Will Pay $$ Call Jeff or Kevin 
2 SMU TIX NOW !$!$!$

MIKE AT 2318. NEED USC TICKETS @2313 
CALL STEVE #1650 I am looking for any USCvs.ND 
2 G A's , 2 STUD's I NEED NAVY GA'S 
Call x4266 or 2n-2290 PETE 271-8795 
WE NEED NAVY GA's OR STUDT-shirts. Call Chris at x.1692. 
We need USC student tickets andLOST: GOLD BEAD NECKLACE TIX. CALL DAVE OR MIKE X1059 2 Navy GA's. Please call Brian or
CALL USA AT X4916 I NEED 2 USC STUD TIX CALL I need 4 SMU GA's KIM 3881 BOBX1747 
Matt at x.1695. NEED RIDE TO PITTS AREA FOR 
$$ FRENZIED ALUMS $$BREAKI WILL HELP WITH MUST SELL4 USC GA'S Need USC tixl Will pay BIG bucks!
EXPENSES.Sherix3567 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ and 2 PITT GA's or STUD 
Need 2 USC GA's or STUD CALL MICHAEL 239 7491 Call John @2299 Need Pitt GAs and Studs 
NEEDED: 
call Jeff or Marty 277-1160 6USCGA'S 
(Pat'Bnts will pay BIG $$$$) NEED GA'S TO USC OR SMUll! Have 3 PITT STUD 4289 
LOST: black, Rayban sunglasses Call CHRIS at x3278 WILL PAYIIII CALL X2658 (BOLT)
REM AT ND BOOT
in the Huddle (either in the -HEIDI YOI POTATOHEADS ARE
RIDE PHILA TO ND AFTER
women's bathroom or by the Need two SMU tix please call 284-COMING ALL THE WAY FROM
BREAK
copy machine downstairs). If 49301!11111111 HELPMEII IDAHO TO SEE THE USC GAME.
3SMUTIX NEED: many USC student tickets, 
found please call Uz at 283-35761 I NEED 2 PITT GA's SELL ME STUD OR GA'S. CALL
CALL STEVE FOR$$$ 1605. 
call Megan 2518 Need TXTS All Games call Bill 
CALL CHRIS @1 027 SCOTT@ 272-2596. 

FALL BREAK II
LOST: Pair of shoes at Senior Bar. 277-3653 NEED 3 USC STUD TiX
PHILADELPHIA-SOUTH JERSEY 
Rich Alumni Father I NEED A RIDE AFTER USC AND
Hard to believe but I went to The $$ BIG BUCKS $$ NEED 1 PITT STUDENT 
Needs USC GAs BACK B4 PITT -DAVE 1209
Commons without my Reeboks on I (I'm not kidding) 2NAVYGA 
If found please look inside them for BIG MONEY FOR USC TICKETS Caii"MONEYBAGS" PAT x3317 MONEY NO PROS. $$$ reward lor your help! 
my life and call Tom X1694 I NEED 10. STUDENT or GA PAT 1236 Call Tim X2037 
Call FRANK 287-5320 I need 2 U$C GA's or 1 SMU st.
I need a ride to anywhere near
HEYIII To the guy who FOUND my My cash is greener than the jolly I NEED MIAMI +ANY HOME GA'S
Cleveland over break. Call Will
TAN POLO JACKET at the Senior I NEED USC TICKETS giant. PLEASE CALL MEl HELP CALL X3516. 
Cruise and called me last week­4048 GA'S OR STUDENT Jay 2314 NEED 2 SMU GASI MYROOMATEFORGOTYOUR LOTS OF CASH TO BURN NEED 2 SMU GASI NAME AND NUMBER Please call EARN SOME DOUGH Need 11 GA's for Navy. 271-8347. $$ X3883 $$
I NEED A RIDE TO DC OR Va.
George (again) at X1694. Thanksl CALL DAN, 239-5472 Ask for Tony or Sue. NEED PITT GAs WILL PAY BIG
AREA AFTER USC GAME, WILL $$$.CALL KEVIN 27J-7187PAY FOR GAS. TIM 4603
LOST: GOLD SIGNET RING WITH NEED USC-STUDENT TIX 
INITIAL K BEHIND lYONS. I NEED 1 USC STUD. and SMU-GA'S. PLEASE CALL NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. BIG$$$$. 
• 
NEED RIDER to MN Oct.22
"PLEASE CALL KATY AT 2590. MIKE14057 AMY AT 283-4220. 277-9869. see CLAS$ I page 5
Gretchen 284-5419 
Tuesday, October 17, 1989 
The Observer 
Late drive keys Bills' upset of Rams 
Associated Press 
OHCHARD PARK, N.Y­Frank Heich threw an 8-yard touchdown pass to Andre Reed with 16 seconds left Monday night to cap a wild final three minutes that gave the Buffalo Bills a 23-20 victory over the Los Angeles Rams, knocking off the NFL's last unbeaten team. 
Reich, who was making his first NFL start and had thrown just 20 passes in four seasons before Pro Bowler Jim Kelly separated his left shoulder last week, had thrown a 1-yard TO pass to Thurman Thomas to put Buffalo ahead 16-13 with 
2:23 left. 
But Thomas fumbled as Buf­falo was trying to run out the clock and Jim Everett's 78-yard touchdown pass to Willie An­derson on the next play seemed to clinch the victory for the Hams with 1:23 to play. 
Reich, however, drove Buffalo 64 yards in seven plays, all in the air, and capped it with the pass to Reed who was hit as he caught the ball at the goal line. 
The win put Buffalo at 4-2, one game ahead of Indianapolis and Miami in the AFC East, The Rams (5-1) fell into a tie with San Francisco for first in the NFC West. 
The touchdown pass to Thomas came at the end of an 87 -yard, 1 0-play drive that was Buffalo's only sustained offen­sive movement of the game. 
Thomas fumbled on the Rams 22-yard line and Michael Stew­art recovered for Los Angeles. 
Everett then hit Anderson streaking down the middle be­hind Mark Kelso, who could only grab at his jersey briefly before he got loose for the win­ning score. 
Reich, who had no completion longer than 13 yards in the first 51 minutes, finished with 21 completions in 37 attempts for 214 yards and Thomas had 24 carries for 105 yards. 
Everett, harried for most of the game and sacked twice by Bruce Smith, was 15-for-36 for 219 yards. 
The blockbuster ending over­shadowed a dull 3 1/2 quarters as Buffalo, with Kelly out, played exceedingly conserva­tive. 
The Rams took a 7-0 fi.rst­quarter lead on a 2-yard touchdown pass from Everett to Buford McGee following Heggie Sutton's fumble of a punt at the Bills' 16. Ironically, Buffalo picked up Sutton just two weeks ago after the Rams released him. 
Scott Norwood's 38-and 47­yard field goals cut it to 7-6 at halftime. Then Mike Lansford hit a 34-yarder to make it 10-6; Norwood's 40-yarder cut it to 10-9; and Lansford hit from 36 to make it 13-9 early in the fourth quarter. 

Seniors oj'All iV/ajors Are Invited to a Presentation on 
Opportunities in Investrnetlt Banking 
Thu'rsda.Y, October 19, 1989 University Club 6:oo P.J\11. 

Representatives ofMorgan Stanley will be present to discuss: 
• 
The Investment Banking Industry 

• 
Opportunities in the Financial Analyst Program 


Refreshments Provided 

Contact the University ofNotre Dame Career and Placement Services Center for additional information 
MORGAN STANLEY & CO. 

Incorporated 
Soccer 
continued from page 12 
headed into the general direc­
tion of the train station. It was 
as if the entire city had been 
called into battle. 
Curious, I followed at a dis­
tance, filing past the station 
along a tree-lined path to a 
place I didn't even know ex­
isted-El Campo de Mendizor­
roza. 
From the outside, the open­
air stadium resembled a small­
town high school football sta­
dium. Most of the fans owned 
season passes. Our 600 pesetas 
landed us in the polideportive y 
general section, where we stood 
on what looked like the ruins of 
an ancient Mayan temple. 
The male-dominated crowd 
was comprised of cigar-smok­
ing, pistachio-crunching, wine­
swilling soccer enthusiasts 
whose sense of civic duty 
seemed to consist entirely of 
whistling louder than the guy 
sitting next to them. The chil­
dren, meanwhile, sat down in 
front behind a metal fence 
which they shook vigorously as 
an American fan might assault 
the plexiglass surrounding a 
hockey rink. 

For my part, I wasn't even sure who to cheer for at first. Both teams seemed to have an equal number of supporters, so it was difficult to discern a home team. 
The first score of the after­noon quickly changed all that. After a tripping penalty was called inside Sodupe's 18-yard line, Alaves was awarded a penalty kick which it converted for a 1-0 lead. The crowd erupted-whistling, blowing horns, waving flags-it was just enough to drown out the moans of the visiting en­tourage. 
As the match wore on, Sodupe was consistently beaten to loose calls and rarely mounted enough offense to ev{m cross the -midfield stripe. The final 2-1 score owed more to blown scoring opportunities by Alaves than Sodupe's stingy defensive play. 
As we crossed through the parking lot on our way home from the stadium, my compan­ion remarked how the drivers in Spain give the impression they're out to kill somebody. 
Not if you're hoisting that blue and white flag. 
Vista is in town 

Learn more about career opportunities in business for science and engineering students. ND'89 graduates will present Vista Chemical Company's Business Career De­velopment Program on Wednesday, October 18 at 7:30 
p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center. Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors are welcome. 


VISTA 

Vista Chemical Company, Houston, Texas 
An Equal Clpportlnity Emplo)'lll" M/F 

page 10 The Observer 
Dilucia plays Volvos; Irish prepare for USC 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame tennis coach Bob Bayliss may be without his top player for Friday's match against 11th-ranked USC, but this may be one time that he doesn't mind. 
Sophomore David DiLucia re­ceived an at-large berth to play in the Volvo Tennis/Collegiate Championships, the top tour­nament of the fall season. The tourney will begin Thursday in Athens, Ga. 
If DiLucia fares well in the opening rounds, he will miss USC's first trip ever to the Midwest. 
"Receiving an invitation to the Volvo Championships is an honor that I just couldn't take away from David," Bayliss said. "lie's worked hard to earn a spot in the field. There is a pos­sibility that he could play against USC if he loses in the early rounds. But I hope he ad­vances deep in the tournament and gives an excellent show­ing." 
Three other Notre Dame players were eliminated in pre­
qualification  rounds  for  the  
tourney.  
Walter  Uolhare  won  two  

matches over the weekend, but lost 7-5, 3-6, 7-5 in Monday's contest. Freshmen Chuck Cole­man and Mark Schmidt won first-round matches, but lost in the second round. 
If DiLucia advances past the early rounds, Dolhare will probably play in the top spot Friday evening against Byron Black, who is ranked 13th in the country. Black turned down a spot in the Volvo tourney be­cause of academic commit­ments. 
DiLucia is ranked 26th in the nation. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Ski Club will meet at 8 p.m. Tuesday in Room 118 Nieuwland. Sign-ups and deposits will be collected for the Christmas trip to Jackson Hole, Wy. Call x3662 or x2962 for more information. 
Tickets for this weekend's baseball games and tennis match against USC are on sale in the dining halls at dinner this week or at Gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. Blue/Gold Cards will not be accepted at the baseball game. Student tickets for both events will be $2 each. Tickets are also available at the door. 
Shuttle service for students to the Notre Dame-USC baseball game will begin at 6 p.m. Thursday from the main circle. The buses will leave Friday immediately following the pep rally from the Joyce ACC. 
Members of the TaeKwonDo Club placed at the 1989 Tae Kwon Do Invitational last weekend. Chris Benzinger received first, Kurt Lauber took second and Ronald Shin tied for third in the men's white/yellow belt division. 
Hapkido Club meets Tuesdays and Thursdays from 8:30 to 9:30 p.m. in Room 219 Rockne Memorial. Learn self­defense from sixth degree black belt Phil Hong. Beginners 
welcome. 
Kline 
continued from page 12 
same birthdate as George Gipp's), Kline also made a name for himself as a Notre Dame player. The Williamsport, Pa., posted a career average of around .350 from 1915 to 1917, before leaving to serve in France during World War I. 


Valpo 
continued from page 12 
into the game. Freshman Paul Kaemmerer scored the second goal of the game at the 24:30 mark, and Grace singled him out for praise. 
"Paul has really developed in the past couple of weeks," says Grace, "lie scored a critical goal early in the game for us, and I think he proved he de­serves to be in the ballgame 
more." 
Kaemmerer and his team­mates dominated this game, as they lead 8-0 in corner kicks and outshot the Crusaders 21­
8. Valparaiso has an extremely young team (they started six freshmen), and their inexperi­ence was obvious on defense, where they gave up two goals on plays where they were at­tempting to clear their defense out of the zone and pull the Irish offsides. 
The only bad news for the 
In a 14-6 win over Michigan in 1917, Kline hit three home runs, which still stands as a school record. During his coaching days, the former third baseman liked to remember how he hit a fourth shot in that game that "went foul by inches." 
The Associated Press con­tributed to this story. 
Irish, except for the two Val­paraiso goals which upset Grace, was what appeared to be an ankle injury to junior fullback Paul LaVigne. 
The Irish will meet the Blue Demons at 3:30 Wednesday afternoon. 

FloridaQBs out because of gambling 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla.-Florida quarterback Kyle Morris and backup Shane Matthews have been declared ineligible for the rest of the season for betting on football games, the univer­sity said Monday. 
Meanwhile, university officials denied what it called rumors that head basketball coach Norm Sloan and three assistants had resigned, uni­versity spokeswoman Linda Gray said. 
Morris, of Clinton, Miss., and Matthews. of Pascagoula, Miss., admitted placing bets on professional and eollege games between laltl August and Oct. 7 -a violation of NCM regula­tions, Gray said. 
The Gator football program was rocked Oct. 8 when Coach Galen llall resigned amid alle­gations of NCM violations. 


Weather or not, Giants need punch 
Or Oakland, '89 World Series will be gone with the wind 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO-Will Clark is sick, the San Francisco hit­ters are in a fog and the Giants are about to face a longtime nemesis. 
So why shouldn't the Oakland Athletics think windy Candle­stick Park will be the place they breeze in the World Series? 
Maybe some lineup ehanges will help San Francisco and so 
might  a  shift  to  place where  
pitchers  must  hit.  But maybe  
not.  

Of the 39 teams that took a 2-0 lead. 29 went on to win. It happened the last two years and Oakland is hoping to get closer when Bob Welch starts Game 3 Tuesday night against Don Robinson. 
"We need to get more offense somehow," San Francisco 


Irish 
continued from page 12 
grabbed a 8-2 lead and then slowly tallied points as several new faces entered the lineup. 
The Irish were not as impres­sive in the third game as they had been in the second as they allowed the Quakers to record points in spurts. 
But newcomers like freshman Marilyn Cragin, who had been sidelined early in the season 
The Observer 
manager Roger Craig said dur­ing Monday's off-day workout and then he promptly made changes aimed at doing just Jhat. 
Pat Sheridan, who hits left­handed, will replace Candy Maldonado in right field, and Matt Williams, who has played third base in the postseason, will move to shortstop in plaee of Jose Uribe, opening up third base for another left-handed hitter, Ken Oberkfell. 
"It's not that we're going to panic, but I feel like we've got to do something to try to get some offense," Craig said. 
So far, the Athletics have one more run than the Giants have hits. 
"I'll do whatever we need to try and score runs," Oberkfell said. "Maybe that means hit­ting the ball to the right side to 
with an ankle injury finished off the Quakers at the net. 
Turner led the Irish with 10 kills, live digs, three block as­sists and two service aces and Choquette tallied nine kills, five digs and four block assists to help the winning cause. 
Cunningham has been assert­ing herself at the net as of late too, as she finished the night with six kills and a team-high seven total blocks. 
get the runner over. We need anything to help." 

The last time a team started the World Series so feebly as San Franeisco was 1950. 
That year, Philadelphia's "Whiz Kids" scored only one run in two games, just like these Giants. Those Phillies eventually did a little better, but still got swept by the New York Yankees. 
The Giants, second in the Na­tional League in runs and home runs, are batting .145 (9-for­
62) in the series so far. They were shut out a league-low six times this season, but got blanked in the opener by Dave Stewart and then managed live hits in a 5-1 loss in Game 2. 
Clark and Kevin Mitchell have combined for five of the Giants' hits, but arc 0-for-6 with run­ners in scoring position. 
''I'm really not pleased with the way the team played," Irish head coach Art Lambert said of his team's seventh win of the season. "We won but we have to do better. This was not a tough team. 
''I'm surprised we didn't jump all over Penn's young and inex­perienced team, but fortunately we got on track and gave ev­eryone a good chance to play." 

PHILOSOPHY MAJORS AND DOUBLE MAJORS 
IMPORTANT MEETING CONCERNING REGISTRATION 
ALL WILL BECOME CLEAR 

TONIGHT 
LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
7:00-8:00P.M. 

The Observer page 11 
....

CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 
7:30 p.m., 8:15 p.m., 9 p.m. Engineering Auditorium. Video Presentation. Dr. Daniel Winicur. Introduction to DART. Open to all. 
7 p.m. Volleyball. SMC vs. St. Joseph's College. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Noon: Wage Differentials and "Theories of Wage Deter­mination in Less Developed Countries," by Pilar Roma­guera, a faculty fellow of the Kellog Institute. Room 131 Decio. 
2:30 p.m. Giuseppe Vacca, director Gramsci Institute Rome, Italy. "Europe 1992: Perspectives from the Left and from Italy. " Room 131 Decio Hall. 
4:30 p.m. Biological Sciences Seminar. Dr. Donald Ready Department of Biology, Purdue University. "A Fly's Eye View of Neural Development." Room 283, Auditorium, Galvin Life Science Center. Coffee at 4:15p.m.. 
4:15 p.m. "Is Peace Possible in Northern Ireland?" R. Hon. Patrick Duffy. Hesburgh Library Lounge. Sponsored by the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholi­cism. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Batter Fried Perch Roast Turkey Fettucini Alfredo Monte Cristo Sandwich 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
'-"-"--'-;....a..-' 

COMICS 
ACROSS 
1 Snug 5 Indonesia's -­Islands 10 Pilgrimage to 
Mecca 14 Fired 15 Like the walls at 
Harvard 16 Part of the eye 17 Richard Thomas 
film 1970 20 Printers' measures 21 Hawaiian necklaces 22 Heats excessively 23 Ossa buco 
ingredient 24 A long time 25 Dexter, e.g. 
21 Cousin of a frat house 28 Baden-Baden, for one · 31 Arab potentate 32 Give the eye, evilly 34 Gone, as a dinner 36 AI Pacino film 1975 39 Moral principle 40 E. Caldwell's "Tobacco--" 41 Mrs. Charles Chaplin 42 Seine 43 Competent 45 Breathes laboriously 47 Andy's radio partner 
48 Assistant 49 Prevailing 
customs 52 Teen's skin woe 53 Reverence plus 
fear 56 Meryl Streep 
film: 1982 59 In the buff 60 Finishes a chess 
game 61 Call it a day 62 Med-school 
subject 63 Tuxedo shirt buttons, usually 64 Antitoxins 
DOWN 

1 Give a hoot 2 Yoked animals 3 Last letters in 
London 4 NF.L. gains 5 Once every 24 
months 6 Benefit 7 Units of 
luminous intensity 8 E.M.K. is one 9 Romeo, to Juliet 10 Province in China 11 Advice. in Aries 12 Fender bender 13 Barbs 18 "Fish Magic" painter 19 Paying guest 

23 Composer of 33 House of Lords "La forza del group 
destino" 35 Has-for 24 Heart artery news 25 Struck sharply 37 "... easier for 
-togo
26 Stingy through the eye 21 Author of of a needle. "· "Robinson BibleCrusoe" 38 Tense feeling 28 Small porch 
44 Embraces 29 Menial workers 
46 Capital of South 30 Tolstoy's "-Yemen Karenina" 
47 End of a 31 First place shoelace 
48 Yearned for 49 Sch. in 
Annapolis, Md. 50 Flabbergast 51 Operatic heroine 52 Westernmost of 
the Aleutians 53 Chills and fever 54 Vacuum-cleaner 
noise 55 Kelt of comics 57 Mrs. Sprat's diet 58 Mensa members 
have high ones 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
1\\t>.Ts I'R\lE. wt.'RE. TOO 1 1-\~~RD T\\~T BIG aTS Flt.Rct.. f..NO FER<KIQIJS. 'tllli. W~~T 00 '{O\J CALL OOt-IT P\JRR. ~E 0~1 t'IER P\JRR. 1\\t. NQ\St. '{()J 1-AA~ '"\.\E.t-1 '{OJ GEl '{o\.lR T\JM~'{ RIJB8E.D ':'
\ I 
"Something's wrong here, Harriet. ... This is starting to look less and less like Interstate 95." 



A&So.••RT Tla/EDIJORES 
~0111..-W NlfiNT' 
ACI1 8:CG-11ICIO
I
• 

STUDENT UNION BOARD
,uv .sGu•llf ,.,, rl'tPCIU1S: c;rAttrl,.'t TtJ}:f.V ! SlfUDP51i: 
(jJ 4'Tii IO--~tudents $8 -rD 

Faculty and Staff $12.50 





INI<. 
.. 








Sports 
Tuesday, October 17, 1989

page 12 

The Observer I Steve Moskop 

The Notre Dame volleyball team swept Pennsylvania in three games Monday night 16-14, 15-0, 15-8. 
Irish men's soccer annihilates Valpo's Crusaders 9-2 
By KEN TYSIAC Sports Wnter 
Thn Notre Dame men's soccer team busted out of the grips of a six-game winless streak last night at Krause Stadium, pummeling an inexperienced Valparaiso team by a score of 9-2. 
Freshman forward Kevin Pendergast led the Irish scoring explosion with three goals. Sophomore Kenyon Meyer chipped in two goals and one assist for the Irish, and Tom Connaghan, Mitch Kern, Paul Kaemmerer, and Peter Sanchez rounded out the Notre Dame scoresheet with one goal apiece. 
Pendergast's hat trick was the first by a Notre Dame player since Randy Morris tal­lied three goals in a 5-1 victory over Roston University on Oc­tober 30, 1988. He now leads the Irish with nine goals and 21 points on the season, and is the first freshman to lead the Irish in scoring since Joe Sternberg finished with 25 points to lead the 1985 squad. 
"lie's a good goal scorer," says Irish coach Dennis Grace, "But he's also learning to play defense from the forward posi­tion. We're just happy he de­cided to come play here at Notre Dame." 
Despite the decisive victory, Grace was not completely pleased with his team's effort. The Irish gave up goals late in each half. one on a penalty kick by Valpo's Scott Fraungruber. and the other on a point blank smash by Paul Kinser. 
"I was pleased because we were able to play a lot of bod­ies." says Grace, "I was not happy about the penalty kick or the late goal they got from scrimmage, but it was good to get the win and go back above the .500 mark." 
The Irish improved to 6-5-3 on the season with the victory, and managed to work quite a few of their younger players 
see VALPO I page 10 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Associate Sports Editor 
Clarence J. "Jake" Kline. the Notre Dame baseball coach for 42 seasons whose re­markable coaching long-evity earned him a place in the Col­lege Baseball Hall of fame, died Sunday at the age of 94. 
Kline, who had suffered a stroke on Oct. 5, passed away at St. Joseph's Medical Center in South Rend. 
Kline compiled a 558-449-5 career record at Notre Dame and in 1972 became only the sixth coach in history to win 500 games. Four of the five previous coaches to reach that plateau had been from Ari­zona and California, where the teams played schedules twice as long as Notre Dame's an­nual 20 to 30-game slates. 
Notre Dame's campus base­ball field was named in Kline's honor on "Jake Kline Day" in 1976, the year after Kline had retired as coach at the age of 81. 
Jake Kline 
1895-1989 Kline started his Notre Dame professional career as a math professor, then became a freshman football coach in 1931. He took over as base­ball coach in 1934, but con­tinued his duties in the math department until 1970, when he decided to concentrate solely on baseball at the age of 75. "I got goosebumps meeting him," current Irish coach Pat Murphy had said earlier this 


Notre Dame sweeps Pennsylvania 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Assistant Sports Editor 
It was a battle of the slow starters and the sloppy Monday night, but in the end the slow starters persevered. 
Once again the Notre Dame women's volleyball team took the role of the slow starter and the Quakers of Pennsylvania seemed willing to assume the part of the sloppy. 
It could be argued that both squads were vying for a chance to be the most slovenly in game one. 
But despite edging the Quak­ers 16-14, the Irish came to life in the second, blanking the visi­tors 15-0 and tallying a 15-8 win in game three. 
The Irish seemed bent upon proving the law of entropy in game one, as they succumbed to the Quakers inconsistent, if not unpredictable play and joined them in a free-fall to­wards disorder. 
Pennsylvania took a 5-0 led early in the game one but the 

ND mourns the loss of an old friend 

Irish crept back and finally caught the Quakers at 8-8. But that was not to be the only stalemate of the game. 
The two teams tied it up at 11, 13 and 14 before the Irish. who had been picking away at the Quaker defense with a well­rounded, but not always over­whelming attack, finally put the game away after freshman outside hitter Alicia Turner gave Notre Dame a 15-14 ad­vantage with a service ace. 
"In game one they just had us running in circles," senior cap­tain Kathy Cunningham said. "Usually we play team's with very structured play-they dig, they set and then they attack. But they just wanted to get the ball over the net, so you never knew what was coming over next. 
"All of a sudden we just fig­ured out what we had to do to win and we did it." 
One would think that Sybil had taken the court in game two as the Irish exhibited an entirely different personality. 
Unlike the apathetic Irish of game one, a possessed team came out and razed the unex­pecting Quakers 15-0. 
Sophomore middle hitter Chris Choquette, who has been playing with a broken finger. and Turner made up the first wave of the Irish attack and freshman Jessica Fiebelkorn, junior Colleen Wagner and Cunningham provided the surge needed to polish off a stymied Quaker squad. 
"We knew we shouldn't have let them get 14 points on the board in the first game," junior Amy White said. "We came out and served more aggressively and played with morn intensity in game two and just played them off the eourt. 
"We felt more in control once we put the first game behind us and we didn't want to concede anything to them in the final two games." 
Notre Dame took up where it leftlittlff in game two as they 
see IRISH/ page 1 0 


year about his introduction to Kline. "He's a true legend in Notre Dame baseball. I hope I can touch half as many people as Jake has." 
Kline led Notre Dame to nine NCAA tournament ap­pearances, including five con­
secutive trips from 1956 to 1960. Kline's 1957 team earned the only College World Series berth in the Notre Dame baseball program's his­tory, and finished fourth in the nation. 
Kline taught University President Edward Malloy in mathematics and his former baseball players included Hall of Fame inductee Carl Yastrzemski, Notre Dame Athletic Director Richard Rosenthal, South Bend Mayor Joe Kernan, Montreal Expos President John McHale and Super Bowl quarterback and former Irish third baseman Joe Theisman. 
Born Feb. 18, 1895 (the 
see KLINE I page 1 0 

Soccer mania thrives throughout Europe 
VITORIA, Spain-To the European sports fan, soccer is more than a national pastime-it is a call to arms. 
That's why thousands of spectators brandishing flags and ban­ners march miles to cheer on their respective teams. That's pri­marily why Barcelona earned the right to host the 1992 Olympics. And that's why I, during a brief respite from the semester in London, recently shelled out 600 pesetas to watch a Division III match between the Sodupe Union Club and Deportivo Alaves, in Vitoria, Spain. 
Frank Pastor 
Foreign Correspondent 
Vitoria, the capital of Alava in the Basque country of Northern Spain, is home to some 180,000 people and is one of the few Spanish cities which has circumvented the threat of commercial­ism. Like any Spanish city, Vitoria closes down from one to four in the afternoon for the daily siesta. But after four, the shops re­open, bars begin to swell with people and the streets bustle with activity. 
It was then that I noticed a caravan of people, bubbling with en­thusiasm and waving flags adorned with blue and white stripes, 
see SOCCER I page 1 0 






