--~-~-----· -~ ~­
--~----------~~-------------------~-~---. 

VOL. XXII, N0.119 
' 
1 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S · 
Woods calls for total divestment 

By Laura Downs 
Staff Reporter 
Donald Woods, a white South African whose experience was the basis for the recent movie "Cry Freedom", urged eco­nomic sanctions and divest­ments in South Mrica, in a lec­ture he gave Thursday. 
• Press conference on apartheid I page 3 
Woods began his lecture by speaking on what he called "the crazy side of apartheid." This portion of his speech in­cluded a discourse which ex­plained some of the irrational aspects of the South Mrican government, such as the intr­icate "toilet laws." 
"Extreme prejudice is like a sort of illness," he said. He said that prejudice exists in every culture but "what makes South Mrica unique is that racism is written into their constitution." 
Next, Woods moved on to what he referred to as "the un­funny apartheid.'' He elaborated on some of the abuses that the government imposes upon the blacks under their jurisdiction, including 312 racial laws plus economic, so­cial, and territorial dis­advantages. 
He said, "white people, no matter how nice they are, are incapable of a complete per­ception of what it is like to be a black living in a racist soci­ety. Apartheid is an evil, unjust system but as far as blacks are concerned it's much more than that.'' 
Woods then spoke of a four­phase "unspoken war" that is currently taking place in South 
Ch.em local 
By DAVID JACO~SON 
News·Staff · 
Undergraduate students Mrica. He emphasized counter-propaganda as one of the major phases in this move­ment and listed the five main points of propaganda that the South Mrican government uses in securing the economic sup­port of other countries. 
He then spoke of measures that the U.S. citizen could take to help hasten the downfall of apartheid. Among his sugges­tions were writing a letter to Nelson Mandela in prison, giving strong support to anti­apartheid groups, and writing to senators and congressmen urging stronger action in Octo­ber when sanctions come up in Congress. 
"The thing the South African government fears most is eco­nomic sanctions and divest­ments," said Woods. He said that putting economic pressure on the South Mrican govern­ment to end apartheid would be the most effective tool and that the sanctions that have already been placed by the U.S. are "starting to bite." 
Following Woods' lecture, the floor was opened for audi­ence members to pose ques­tions to him. 
Woods became editor-in­chief of the South Mrican news­paper, The Daily Dispatch, in 1965. His editorial attacks on the racial policy of apartheid drew hostility from the South Mrican government on numerous occasions and in 1977, he was arrested for publishing details of the killing of the young black leader Steven Biko by officers of the State Security Police. 
Three months after his ar­rest, he escaped with his wife and five children across the 
see WOODS I page 5 

from Notre Oarne are vtsit4e.'·''t!il ; c ing local grade schools give chemistry demonstrl:b Nons, in a program that -~·-pJ~in~d J run by the American Chetni" · cal Society Student Af• filiates. 
Karlene Cimprich, president, said that schools are being visited "to promote interest in . chemistry among those stu~ dents.'' ''These visits are in conjunction with National Science Week/' said Karen Schools visited so fat by Morris, chemistry lecture the $tudents include __ Clay demonstrator. Middle Sch<Wl and Christ the 
The students visiting the King. More schools wUl schools are volunteers.. from receive demonstrations next the American Chemical So-week, whiCh is JNa1tioJ11al ciety Student Affiliates club, · ence · · ·week. and are devoting their .time . Robert Hayes is the to this worthy effort m~inly >toJ!U'am.•,said.
the · 

By CHRISTINE WALSH 
Senior Staff Reporter 
A motion made by a member of the Faculty Senate Thursday called for the complete dis­banding of the senate itself. 
In a seven page statement by Senator Bob Kerby, he potrayed the senate as ineffec­tual, and even more powerless than Kerby remembered it to be when he served a decade ago. 
"I don't have confidence that this body can govern anyth­ing... this is the most useless body I have ever served on... it is kind of fun, but it's a use­less waste of time," com­mented Senator Charlie Rice. 
The senate should consider three options in relation to the fate of the senate, according to Kerby: 
•Leave the senate in its current· mode of operation. 
•Disband 
the senate. 

•Unionize 
the Notre Dame fac­ulty. 


Mter presenting the state­ment, which was requested to be placed "verbatim" in the senate minutes, Rice made the motion to disband the senate. 
Immediate reactions were divided on the issue, but the senators agreed with the ex­pressed sentiment that the sen­ate was largely an impotent body, in addition to its status as a non-governing body. 
"I agree with what we're trying to say here but (we shouldn't dissolve the senate) right now. I think we have to follow up with this meeting with the president and the rest of the officers ... if we di~solve today, we have no reason to~ meet with anybody," said 
Senator Mohammed Gad-el-Hak. tary. 
FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 1989 

Many senators agreed that the reason why the senate was so ineffective was that Univer­sity President Father Edward Malloy, and previous presi­dents, supported the present system of University gover­nance tightly controlled by a small group of administrators. 
The option to unionize was presented as a means of giving 
-faculty a greater say in Univer­sity matters. A senator stated that the University should be more than just the administra­tion. · Other proposals, in addition to the dissolution of the senate were put on the floor. "An alternative, which I don't promote, would be for the senate to buy a page (in The Observer) ... and supervise its (Kerby's statement) presenta­tion," said the senate secre­
Maynard to speak on journalism 
By JIM WINKLER dropout, was named a Nieman Staff Reporter Fellow at Harvard in 1966 and has been a writer since that 
The Red Smith Lecture in time as well. He became the Journalism will be held next first black associate editor at Tuesday and will feature Robert Maynard, editor and president of the Tribune in Oak­land, California. 
The lecture, sponsored by the American Studies Department and the Year of Cultural Diver­sity, will focus on changes in American life and journalism during recent decades. 
Robert Maynard, this year's speaker, is a noted columnist. "The Red Smith Lecturer is al­ways someone who has earned recognition as a writer and someone who upholds high journalistic standards. For 

Robert Maynard

these reasons and others, Robert Maynard is a perfect the Washington Post in 1967, choice," according to Robert and ten years later founded the Schmuhl, director of the lec­Institute for Journalism Educa­ture and an associate professor tion, which trains minority in American Studies. groups for careers in jour­
Maynard, a high school nalism. 
In 1979, Maynard was named editor of the (Oakland, Calif.) Tribune. He became the first black to own a major metropolitan daily newspaper in 1983 when he purchased the Tribune. Two years after that he began writing a syndicated column for the Universal Press Syndicate, appearing in over 150 newspapers. In addition to his work at the Tribune, Maynard sits on the Associated Press board of directors, as well as on the board of the Pulitzer Prizes, the Rockefel­ler Foundation and Mills Col­lege. 
This is the seventh year that the lecture series has been held. The lecture honors the late Walter "Red" Smith, a 1927 graduate of Notre Dame who is called one of the greatest sportswriters in American his­tory. The purpose of the lec­ture, according to its sponsors1 
see Red I page 7 

page 2 The Observer Friday, April 14, 1989 
WORLD BRIEFS 

Two Syrian helicopters rocketed two Soviet navy vessels in the Mediterranean this week, injuring seven Soviet sailors, one critically, Foreign Ministry spokesman Gennady Gerasimov reported Thursday. Syria apologized for the attack, and a pre­liminary investigaton indicated the helicopter pilots attacked in error. The alleged attack took place at 10 a.m. Tuesday, 35 miles off the Syrian port of Tartus. 
Princess Diana was lunged at by a man outside a workshop for the mentally handicapped in northern England Thursday but was unhurt, police said. The man, who was not identified, was held briefly and released without charge, according to police in Northumbria. A police officer directed the princess away from the commotion, and she continued greeting people outside the shop and accepting flowers. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
A man going before a judge on firearms charges in Washington Thursday threatened to blow up the courtroom and demanded to talk to President Bush before guards wrestled him to the floor and seized a briefcase he was carrying. The incident happened in the third-floor courtroom of Superior Court Judge Leonard Sachar at about 1:30 p.m. The county bomb squad was called in to remove the briefcase from the building, which was evacuated immediately following the threat. The device was then taken to an undisclosed firing range and disposed. 
President Bush's $90 billion plan to bail out the savings and loan industry cleared its second major congressional hurdle Thursday, passing a House subcommittee one day after receiving the unanimous endorsement of the Senate Banking Committee. The bill would provide $50 billion over the next three years to close or merge about 350 failed S&Ls and another $40 billion necessary to meet government pledges made last year in the rescue of another 200 institutions. 
Little brother's driving is 'the scariest thing' The scariest thing ever happened to me over -Easter break. I ended up having to go home for 'My brother is thatthe break and I found out that my brother biker that always started driving. Not golf balls, but a car.  
I was mortified, not to mention scared to cuts in front of your death. car knowing that you My little brother, my baby brother (even will slow down.'though he is sixteen and a good four inches  
taller than me I can't think of him any other way) now has a license. I remember when we Colleen Cronin were in our Big Wheel stage of life. Well, now Asst. Accent Editor that I think of it, we were better than the other kids on the block because we had Green Mac­paper in my hot little hand. I figured I now hines instead. Anyway, talk about hell on owned the world and there was nothing I wheels! Little kids--or at least my brother-­couldn't do and nowhere I couldn't go. Of ought to have a license for those things. If my course, then mom introduced me to reality and mom had found one more tire track on the lawn I found myself as mom's gopher, and spending I think she would have made that Green Ma­more money on gas than I do now on pizza. But chine a permanent part of my brother's face. I was still psyched on the fact that now I could Throughout all post-Big Wheel stages of his go pick up a few girlfriends and go cruising. 0 life he was a holy terror on any number of know, I know, a revolting thought, but I was wheels. He had the tricycle, the banana-seat sophomore in high school--what can you ex­bike with streamers on the handlebars and pect?!) playing cards in the spokes and a license plate Which is exactly what my brother's reason from a box of Cheerios on the back, the dirt for living has been over the past year. bike, the ten-speed, and now the car will be At some point (really many points) in my added to this list of his weapons. later high school days, I distinctly remember If you don't understand my fear quite yet, let laughing hysterically at the group of four guys me try a different appraoch. My brother is that obviously freshmen or sophomores in high biker that always cuts in front of your car school and obviously in mom and dad's car and knowing that you will slow down. He is that obviously suffering from severe hormone biker that takes corners at ninety miles an hour stress. while leaning the bike almost horizontal and My brother is not like that yet, but who knows somehow manages to avoid your car and a what effect that piece of paper plus four wheels parked car just in the nick of time. He was also plus a few friends could have. I have seen the the kid on the block who could make the longest best people turn into complete idiots with an skid mark on the driveway, much to mom's IQ less than that of an orange. dismay. The state is now going to issue him a Of course, there may be a few advantages to license?! this atrocity. I won't have to be his personal Maybe along with the written test and the chauffeur like I was last summer. And someone driving test, the state ought to require a case else will also be paying for gas. Well, right now history of his bicycle years. Questions such as I can only think of two advantages, but that is "on the average, how many wipe-outs did you better than none. have per year?" and "approximately how So if anyone happens to pass through the many cars did you force out of your way per Chicago area this summer, be on the lookout day?" The answers to these revealing questions for my brother. If there are huge traffic jams, should be taken into consideration and bear I'm sure you will see him at the beginning of some effect in the licensing process. Or maybe it. I sould just go in and tell the license people myself so as to enlighten them to what they did Colleen Cronin is a sophomore American to society by allowing my brother to drive. Studies major and is Assistant Accent Editor I remember when I finally got that piece of for The Observer.  
OF INTEREST  
Congressman John Hiler will be speaking Potato Creek Day of relaxation and nature Saturday to a meeting of the College appreciation sponsored by the N.D. Environ­Republicans at 2:30 p.m. in the Notre Dame mental Action Club takes place tomorrow from Room of the LaFortune Student Center. 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Call James Dailey (283-1770) or Mike Leahy (283-3075) by this afternoon to sign up for transportation or to get directions. Sophomores: today is the last day to turn in applications for positions in next year's Junior Class Government at the Receptionist's An Tostal Road Wars will be held at SMC Desk on the 2nd Floor of LaFortune before 4:30 April 27. Signups continue at LaFortune on p.m. April18 and at Saint Mary's on April20. Events include 4 and 12-mile races with T-shirt to the top finishers. Call Darren or Eric at 283-3472 Neighborhood Study Help Program'~ for more information. spring picnic for tutors will be on Sunday, April 16 from 12-2:30 p.m. on Holy Cross field (in front of Holy Cross Hall) . South Bend White Sox Game trip for Logan Center will be tomorrow. Meet at Logan Center at noon. Free transportation and tickets TheAnti-Apartheid Networkissponsoring for all volunteers. Van pickups at St. Mary's at a musical celebration tonight with Alan Faye 11:45, at Notre Dame at 11:55. and the McNeills from 6-8 p.m. on the steps of the Administration Building. ·' . ~I 23rd Annual Rummage Sale sponsored SUB Music Commission is seeking input by the Service Guild will be held on Saturday, at a short meeting to be held April 18th at 7 April 15th from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. at Logan Center, p.m. in the Sorin Room, LaFortune. Questions 1235 Eddy St. Proceeds are used to aid the men­calls Dave, Scott or Erin at 239-7757. tally and physically handicapped in the area.  
Design Editor ........................... Chris labaree Design Assistant ................... Janice O'Leal)' Typesetters ............................ Molly Schwartz ....................................................... Dan Towers News Editor ............................... Kelley Tuthill Copy Editor ............................... John O'Brien Sports Copy Editor ................... Frank PastorP.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 VIewpoint Copy Editor .••.••.•• Janice O'Leal)' VIewpoint Layout ................. Tricia Grohman(219) 239-7471 Etc. Editor .. .......................... Robyn Simmons Etc. Copy Editor......................... Missy Irvine Etc. Designer................................. Tim Irving Typists.......................................... Sue Barron .......................................................Rosi LozadaThe Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except NO Day Editor .......................... Betsy Mennell during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the SMC Day Editor ....................... Alissa Murphy University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur· Photographer......................... Jennifer Sewall chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. Ads Designers ......................... Meg Callahan The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights . ........................................................ Val Poletto are reserved. ...................................................... Maria Blohm . .......................................................... Chris Nee  

INDIANA BRIEFS 
Governor Evan Bayh's spending recommendations would balance the Indiana budget on the backs of public schools, Re­publican legislative leaders charged Thursday. Bayh's bud~et proposal was also criticized for elimin~ting a l~ng lis_t of cap~tal projects legislators have endorsed and mstead msertmg fundmg recommendations just for northwestern Indiana, where he received strong backing in the November general election. Bayh denied any payoffs were being made. 
A Cincinnati woman who allegedly helped a federal prisoner escape to start a three-state crime spree was being held in the Marion County Jail on $250,000 bond Thursday. Elizabeth Bonvil­lain, 31, is charged with kidnapping, attempted murder and aiding 
in the escape of a federal prisoner. She was returned Wednesday from Wisconsin where she was arrested March 25. Bonvillain is charged with helping in the March 24 escape from Wishard Hospi­tal of Ronald Plummer of Williamsburg, Ky. 
An Indiana Superior Court juryinEvansvillehasconvicted John Clardy, 19, of murder i1i the shooting death of his friend, Jeffrey Brown, 17. Brown's body was found covered by debris last November. Deputy Prosecutor Stan Levco said a taped state­ment that Clardy gave police was the primary evidence in the case. 
WEATHER 

Springtime siesta 
Mostly cloudy and warmer today with a 40-50 percent chance of showers, high near 60. Cooler tonight with a low near 35. Sunny tomorrow with a high in the 50s and also sunny on Sunday 
with highs from 55-65. 
ALMANAC MARKET UPDATE 
On April 14: e In 1828: The first edition of Noah Webster's "American Dictio· 
nary of the English Language" was published. e In 1865: President Abraham 
Lincoln was shot and mortally wounded by John Wilkes Booth at Ford's Theater in Washington . The 
S&P 500 +2.59 to 296.40 

president died the following morning. e In 1902: J.C. Penney opened 
Currency exchange

his first store in Kemmerer, Wyo. e In 1912: The supposedly un· 
Mark f" 27 to 5339 DM I $ 

sinkable RMS Titanic ran into an ice­
Yen +55 to 7570 ¥I$

berg in the North Atlantic and began sinking. e In 1986: Americans got first 
Precious Metals 

word of a U.S. air raid on Libya. 
Gold +$2.10 to $390.30 I oz.

e Ten years ago: Flash floods spawned by two days of driving 
Silver +.5¢ to $5.891 oz. 

rains forced several thousand people to flee their homes in Mississippi and 
Source: Prudential Bache Securities Alabama. 
Information compiled from Observer wires and Observer staff reports. 
----~--~-~--~----~--.-.--~-~---~-------~ --·------------~~----------------~ 
Friday, April 14, 1989 

AP Photo

Flaming protest 
A radical South Korean student aims a gasoline bomb at riot police during an hour-long street battle Thursday. Police arrested more than 800 students who pr.otested against the arrest of prominent dissident Moon lkhwan. Moon returned from Japan after a suprise visit to rival North Korea. 
SECURITY BEAT 
reported the theft of his CD player
MON., APRIL 10 
from his unsecured dorm room4:00 pm A resident of Dillon Hall sometime between 11:00 and 11:30reported the theft of his license plate am.
from his vehicle in the D-1 Lot 5:10pm A Notre Dame employee sometime on or before 3/24. Total reported the theft of his leatherlosses are estimated at $24.50. 
jacket and sunglasses from outside 
of gym #1 of JACC sometime be-TUES., APRIL 11 tween 5:10 and 6:10pm. Total losses 3:15pm A resident of Zahm Hall estimated at $409. 
i7""0 ~ e ·10311 3Hl "lSY:::>AG08 "lS\i:::>AG08 .....•....:'!!.!.';11':i ':.,U· DI[)~;:",VD. I u'i:;(
""' i;;-... • • ..,un>M.n ···~~··n,,u •• ~ n:...~ .... 4 ,.,_ . ou PLA. E( 
;~,~~~~~!BUY CLASS I Fl EDs;:·:;-~~~;r~ 
~ ~ ~-~,;:. J-~('( -v "-<>'. a."oovu'""v".'· HS~ ""'Vpu0 ·.-tvs 818 · (ON) ,.<:.J''0,§-o 6':.<:-& :'"'>.~.~ *";.,·.S: ~ at Campus Vtew? Plea. t!;, N1:1~8 W8fo ~011 B$ 

As Near As Your Phone 
Hours: 
Tuesday 4 -9 p.m. 
Wednesday, Thursday, 
Sunday 4 -11 p.m. 

Friday and Saturday 
4 -12p.m 
•

irish spr1ng 
this saturday, april 
4 pm 

·rain or shine, we'll be there 
3 and 6 mile routes wear green and get a buck back! $4.00 in advance $5.00 day-of prizes to the men's and women's hall with the most participants!!! 
SPONSORED BY NVA 
The Observer page 3 
Woods discusses apartheid 
By MAURA KRAUSE Staff Reporter 
Donald Woods, whose expe­rience as a journalist in South Africa was the basis for the movie, "Cry Freedom," voiced his position on divestment at a press conference Thursday night. 
Woods, during his 12 years as editor-in-chief of the South African paper, The Daily Dis­patch, was prosecuted in court seven times for his editorial at­tacks on the racial. policy of apartheid. Woods' editorials went against the South African publication laws restricting criticism of governmental policy. 
Woods urged "total divest­ment from South Africa as 35 percent of U.S. aid goes to the government; the main impact on their government would come from total disinvest­ment." Woods said the idea that "by staying in economic control, the U.S. can pressure the South African government is not-at all valid. That sort of pressure has existed for 30 years, and less than one per­cent of black workers have been employed by multina­tional corporations." For Woods,"selected disinvest­ment is not an answer." 
"Censorship implemented by the South African government works to keep many miscon­ceptions about South Africa alive," said Woods. "The South African government counts on ignorance and half truths to keep corporations investing. They want Americans to believe that South Africa is made up of many different tribes that would not be able to rule because of language bar­riers, that sanctions would hurt blacks, that the black move­ment is communist and that disinvestment won't work. The censorship in South Africa causes journalists to cover whatever they are alJowed-­this aids the distortion. I am suspicious of anything the gov­ernment allows T.V. to cover," said Woods. · 
According to Woods, there are four main courses of action that can be taken to help South Africa. People can write letters to Nelson Mandela, who has been in jail for years. Mandela will not receive the mail, but it will show the government that people elsewhere care, Woods said. 
He said support of Amnesty International is also needed. Letters to congressmen will also help, as will urging disin­vestment and supporting eco­nomic sanction. Universities should also ''have a scholar­ship for a black refugee," said Woods. 
Woods remains optimistic about the state of affairs in South Africa, saying, "I am sure that there will be no apar­theid in six to seven years. The South African government is making noises it has never made before. For the first time in 40 years, the government reacted to a hunger strike mercifully. Several weeks ago, when prisioners went on a strike, several were released. The government is also speak­ing of maybe negotiating to free South Africa." 
Woods does not see the gov­ernment "toppling, but rather gradually eroding. I don't think it's a country which will ever see a full scale civil war; the government will cease to be in total control. It will get to the stage where it can no longer run the country, right now the government is in less control than 3 years ago." 
The black South Africans are asking "to stop the money com­ing in from the outside. The government is really hurting from even the beginnings of sanction; turning off the eco­nomic tap will have a great ef­fect on the government," said Woods. "Boycotts also help. The government may start off not listening, but end up listen­ing." 
Faculty debates J-Board c·hanges 
By CHRISTINE WALSH Senior Staff Reporter 
Changes made in the Judicial Review Board in the summer prior to the 1988-89 academic year were made "without any faculty or student imput," said Chris Devron, student liason to the Faculty Senate. 
According to Professor Clark Power, changes were made by the University because "too many cases were being ap­pealed... it takes time and ef­fort to go through all those hearings and. . . 'pure institu­tions' don't have retrials." 
Under the new rules of the board, "students can appeal, but they appeal back to the same people that made the 
runs 
15 

original decision,'' which is not a fair appeal, said Power. 
"Explicitly, severity of sanc­tion was excluded as grounds for appeal," Power said. And these were the most frequent grounds for appeals in the past. 
Under these new rules of the Judicial Review Board, even sanctions issued, such as expul­sion could not be appealed soley on those grounds. In the case of an unintentional parietals-breaker who is auto­matically expelled, h&She would have no grounds for ap­pealing for lighter sanctions. 
The following new changes in the Judicial Review Board were proposed by both Power and Devron to the Faculty Sen­ate: •The board should once again become a court of appeal and review. 
•The 
board should be em­powered to hear appeals of a serious nature on grounds that include severity of sanction. 

•Composition 
of the board should include students as well as faculty and administrators. 


The resolution was passed by the senate, and will be taken up by the Campus Life Council. 
However, Power said he thought it unlikely that the changes would make it past the veto of Vice President of Stu­dent Affairs Father David Tyson. 
• If you haven't been • : listening to Wlit=i-: : recently you've "" : : missed: : 
: 1. Chris Knaus' thermo study tips: +2. record giveaways + +3. " provocative" news debates + 
+4. " Spam a Ia carte" : : 5. Sportsbeat trivia night • +6. " Cooking with Wine" + : 7. The Caveman : 
: .oh yeah, we play music too:
• 


Friday, April 14, 1989
page 4 The Observer 

West Bank violence 
AP Photo 
Israeli troopers take up firing positions in the center of Bethlehem Thursday during demonstrations by Palestinians. Earlier, in the nearby village of Nahalin, at least five Palestinians were killed in disturbances. 
Pentagon contractors convicted 
Associated Press 

ALEXANDRIA, Va.-Two former executives of a Califor­nia defense contractor were convicted of conspiracy and wire fraud Thursday in the first 
trial arising from the Pentagon corruption scandal. 
A federal court jury deliberated nearly 36 hours over four days before returning guilty verdicts against George Kaub and Eugene Sullivan, former vice presidents of Teledyne Electronics of New­bury Park, Calif. 
~ 
Each was convicted on one count of conspiracy. Kaub was found guilty on five counts of wire fraud and two counts of[ filing false statements. Sul­
livan  was  convicted on  three  
counts of w ire fraud.  
A  third  defendant,  Dale  

Schnittjer, was acquitted on conspiracy and wire fraud charges by U.S. District Judge Richard Williams after the jury failed to reach a verdict against him. Schnittjer is also a former vice president of Teledyne Electronics. 
All the defendants were found innocent of bribery; a charge stemming from the gov­ernment's contention that the former executives knew money was paid to a Navy engineer for inside information about a $24 million contract for hand­held radar test equipment. 
Kaub, who faces a maximum sentence of 40 years in jail and a fine of $2 million, hung his head and stared at the defense table after the bailiff read the verdict. 
Sullivan could be sentenced to 20 years in jail and fined a maximum of $1 million. He was impassive. 
:;..,_~&~_...: 

...,~, 
Hafienda 
Schnittjer had a hint of a smile on his face. 

Williams set sentencing for June 7 as attorneys for Kaub and Sullivan said they would appeal the verdict. 
Assistant U.S. attorney Joseph Aronica said he was pleased with the convictions, which he called sig­nificant. "This sends a message to corporate America that they cannot wash their hands of this type of activity," he said after the four women and eight men returned their verdict. 
He said the government's !'Ill Wind" investigation into kickbacks, payoffs and fraud in the Defense Department's $150-billion-a-year purchasing system was "expanding and continuing_.'' 

The Pentagon procurement 
investigatjon began in mid-1986 
AMERICAN 
CANCER
SOCIETYIt
t


but was not publicly disclosed until June 1988, when federal agents armed with search war­rants descended on defense contractors from coast-to­coast. 
The first indictment was handed up in January. Besides the three Teledyne executives, it names private consultants William Parkin and Fred Lack­ner; Stuart Berlin, a Navy of­ficial, and Teledyne Industries, the parent of Teledyne Electronics. 
All pleaded guilty in advance of the trial execept for the com­pany officials. Teledyne pleaded guilty to conspiracy and filing false statements. It paid $4.3 million in fines, penalties and damages. 
LINCOLNWOOD MOTEL ACCEPTING RESERVATIONS for Notre Dame Graduation May 19, 20, 21 (219) 234-4063 
April Perm Special 
Receive your choice free with a full perm­
3/4" barrel curling iron or a difuser. 
University Hair Stylists 

~S·r-··r.... ~:~':U.,:·~~. 

9-9 M-F 
.,>~~~,~~ 

9-4 Sat 
. ~.-.. .·:-· -~~Jt\>~~~~ 
:~~~Y1 . \ i~~ 
Make your appointment now for Sr. Formal & Graduation 
THE HACIENDA MEXICAN RESTAURANTS are now staffing for spring and summer. Get a head start on that summer job. 
We are hiring at top wages and offer flexible scheduling to accomodate students. We need: *COOKS *COCKTAIL SERVERS *DISHWASHERS *FOOD SERVERS *BOSSERS *BARTENDERS *HOSTS/HOSTESSES *CASHIERS 
Be a part of the fun at Michiana's favorite restaurants Apply in person 11 am-6pm at the Haciendas in: 100 Center, Scottsdale Mall, Indian Ridge Plaza EOEm f 
Wright fights to save 'good name' 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-With his po­sition as the nation's highest elected Democrat in jeopardy, House Speaker Jim Wright mounted an emotional defense Thursday against serious et­hics charges and declared he would "fight to the last ounce of conviction and energy that I possess." 
In a 30-minute counteroffen­sive delivered to reporters and television cameras, Wright sought to rebut point by point the charges being lodged against him by the House ethics committee, which was writing its final report after a 10­month, $1.5 million investiga­tion of his finances. 
Flanked by members of his leadership team and Texas col­leagues, Wright's voice choked with emotion as he defended his wife, Betty, against the charge that her $18,000-a-year salary from a Fort Worth business partner amounts to an im­proper gift. 
He said his wife was "a good decent, caring, thoroughly honorable person" and he would "damn well fight to protect her honor and integrity from any challenge from any source whatever the cost." 
"Whether I'm speaker of the 
house, which is the greatest 
honor I've ever had, is not im­
portant," Wright said. "What 
is important is that Congress 
move swiftly, and I'm 
prepared to move very swiftly, 
to get distractive matters of 
this kind behind us so that we can concentrate on the really 
important things that affect this country of ours." 
He said his reputation "is the most important thing and the only really important thing. For my good name, which is the legacy I intend to leave my children and my grandchildren, I will fight to the last ounce of conviction and energy that I possess." 
Wright declined to field ques­tions after his statement. After his impassioned public defense, Wright returned to the business of the House, appear­ing in the chamber to push for a vote on a $49.7 million Contra aid package. 
Rep. Charles Wilson, who was among the three dozen or so of the 260 House Democrats to attend Wright's speech, said the event "serves to brace everybody up for a good, hard tough fight." 
The ethics committee contin-• ued its work behind closed doors and chairman Julian Dixon, D-Calif., said no public announcement of its conclu­sions was expected until next week. 
But sources familiar with the deliberations said all crucial votes already had been taken and had gone against Wright on the two most serious charges: that he violated House rules by accepting gifts from a business partner with an interest in legislation, and that he evaded limits on collect­ing speaking fees through bulk 
sales of his book, "Reflections of a Public Man." 

N 
i 
ONTARIO RD. 
SAME SIDE OF HIGHWAY 

STATELINE RO.
684-4880 
NILES, MI. 5~o~::~E5 ~I ":;'N~~~~~r~ SPECIAL STUDENT RATES 
ACC t
*Edison N 


== Hurry Now-Spaces are going fast! = liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUUIIUI. 

-~-~-----------------~------~---~ ~---~ 
Friday, April 14, 1989 The Observer page 5 
Ford gives College of Business grant 
By JOHN ZALLER Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame College of Business Administration recently received a $125,000 grant from the Ford Motor Motor Company Fund. 
The grant, which will be awarded over the next two years, will be applied to the College's Ford Junior Faculty Fellows Program. The Fellows Program will help non-tenure faculty (of three years or less) to underwrite research for problems pertinent to business development. 
Seven research projects have already benefitted from the grant. 
"We are grateful to the Ford Motor Company Fund for this timely and useful grant," said John Keane, dean of the Col­lege. "By providing research 
Universities race for cold fusion patent 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Universities are racing to cash in on cold nuclear fusion with a haste that shows how scholarly research often is tinged by big business. 
A broad patent on cold nu­clear fusion could be worth bil­lions of dollars if the invention turns out to provide a new way of produCing cheap, clean and abundant energy. 
But the lure of money inhibits exploration of cold fusion claims as leading researchers withhold information in order to protect their patent posi­tions, lawyers and scholars said Thursday. 
"There is absolutely no doubt 
R 
*Closed Saturday, April 15th* 
opportunities for business fac­ulty, it should greatly enhance the already impressive stature of Notre Dame's College of Business." 
Leo Brennan, a 1951 Notre Dame graduate and executive director of the fund, said, "we are pleased to be associated with Notre Dame in this impor­tant project. Junior faculty must be encouraged to remain in academia to provide schol­arly leadership for future generations." 
"Most of our graduates go into business, so businesses have a natural incentive to in­vest in the quality of educa­tion," said Keane. 
The grant represents the Ford Motor Company's partic­ipation in Notre Dame's $417 million "Strategic Moment" fundraising campaign. 
in my mind that once you dangle out that pot of gold called a patent it causes people to publish less and disclose less," Donald Chisum, a patent expert at the University of Washington, said this week. 
Scientists trying to test the cold fusion claims announced at a news conference last month have been stymied be­cause the two researchers have withheld important details of their work. 
The University of Utah ap­plied for three patents even before the March 23 news con­ference featuring its own B. Stanley Pons and his co­investigator, Martin Fleischmann of the University of Southampton in England. 

Mexican police transport Sergio Martinez Salins, a suspect in the satanic cult killings at a ranch near Matamoros, Mexico, at the police headquarters on Wednesday. 
Suspect digs up 13th body 
Associated Press 
MATAMOROS, Mexico-One of the suspects in a cult of human sacrifice pointed out the grave of a 13th body on Thursday and police ordered him to dig it up, badgering him as he reeled from the heat and the stench. 
"You'll do it with your hands if you have to," one officer told Sergio Martinez after the suspect was handed a pick and shovel. 
Martinez, 22, had been taken back to a ranch near Matamoros, where a dozen bodies were unearthed Tues­
day.  He  and  other  suspects  
have  told  authorities  there  
were  14 bodies buried on the  

ranch. 

In a dramatic public confes­sion Wednesday, some of the five suspects in custody said victims were put to death in rituals that were intended to provide a "magical shield" for members of a drug-smuggling ring. 
Under the gaze of police on Thursday, Martinez went to work digging up the new grave and quickly revealed the body of a man in his 30s. Martinez said the man had been buried about four months ago. 
Tonight! & B with the BLUE LIGHT SPECIALS 
10:00 p.m. 
If you haven't been istening towlit='i::orecently you've missed: 
REMNEWMODELARMYNIT2EREBBREPLACEMENTS 
TH ATP ETROL EMOTI ONCA SHMEREJUNGLEL ORDSCA 
BRRETUOL TR IREDEPECHEMODESM ITHSHTCKINGM 
ISS ILERRPEMANS IOUHS IEANDTHEBANSHHSS IM 
PLEMINDSSKINNYPUPPYTHETHEAGEOFCHRNCERL 
ARMB IGAUD IODYNAM ITEFRONT242AMER ICANST 
ANDRRDRGNOSTICFRONTKILLD02ERERASUREELUI 
SCOSTELLOMIGHTYLEMONDROPSCURENEWORDER 
B I GCOUNTRYB IGO IPPPERCLASHCOMMUNARDSCH 
ILLSCHURCHWRTERBOYSW IREHFERRYR2DRNI ELL 
EDAHLOURHDU IOLENTFEMMESROYALCOURTOFCH 
INAFLAM INGL IPSSONICYOUTHSOULASYLUMJANE 
SADDITIONTHRASHINGDOUESTHEYMIGHTBEGIANT 
SFIREHOSEDRICOWBOYJUNKIESSEHPISTOLSOMD 
OINGOBOINGOMIDNIGHTOILMINISTRYOAGNASTY 
LIMESP IDERSPROCLA IMERSAHOUSEMAGNOLIASf 
ISHBONELIUINGCOLOURROHYMUSICCULTORIUIN 
NCRY INHOUSEOFFREAKSMARCHU IOLETSECHOAND 
THEBUNNYM ENLOUEANDROCKETSFEELI ESJESUSil 
NDMARYCHA INDEADM ll KMENGREENSCRUFFYTH 
ECRTS ISTERSOFMERCYBRUHAUSPA ILHEADLETSAC 
Tl UETHROW INGMUSESSCREAM INGTREESROYALC 
RESENTMOBGAMETHEORYCOCTERUTWINSRLLTRL 
KTALKROB INHITCHCOCKRNDTHEE6YPTI ANSCULT 
JOYDIUISIONMORECOOLMUSICONWUFI,_ 
Requests: 239·6400 
The suspect asked for a face mask but was told to keep working. "You didn't need one when you buried him," an offi­cer said. 
However, Martinez was given a mask minutes later when he said he could not dig because of the stench. Later Martinez collapsed and asked for water. Two onlookers helped him complete the job. 
So far, the only victim to be identified was Mark Kilroy, a 21-year-old University of Texas pre-medical student who was kidnapped on the streets of Matamoros last month during spring break. 
The suspects have said they killed at the demand of Adolfo de Jesus Constanzo, whom they called "godfather." They said Constanzo, 26, and Sara Maria Aldrete, 24, called the "witch," believed human sacrifices gave the members of the cult protection from harm. 
Cameron County Sheriff's Lt. George Gavito said that Con­stanzo, a Cuban who has con­tacts in Miami, was last seen Tuesday over the border in Brownsville, Texas. 
A warning that Constanzo and Aldrete might be heading for Miami was read to police officers there at roll calls Thursday, but "at this time we're not taking any active stance on it," said Detective Marie Chaney. 
Constanzo's family was known to live in a middle-class neighborhood in the Miami area from the late 1970s to 1984, authorities said. 
Meanwhile, new details emerged about the cult leaders, who are said to have driven luxury cars and worn expensive clothes bought with drug profits. 
"They had a wealthy life­style, buying '89 Mercedes, cash and all kinds of lwtury cars and telephones and cloth­ing," Gavito said. 
That description may fit the profile of a successful drug smuggler, but details about Aldrete's life fit no such pat­tern. 
"Apparently, Sara was leading a double life : as a witch in Mexico and as a dean's honor roll student at Texas South­most College," said Sheriff's Deputy Carlos Tapia. 
Texas Southmost College is a two-year college in Brownsville with an enroll­ment of 6,500. 
Woods 
continued from page 1 
border into the black-ruled country of Lesotho dressed as a priest. The family reached London, England, where they now live and where Woods works as a writer, broadcaster, 
and lecturer on apartheid. 
Woods' lecture at Notre Dame is sponsered by the Stu­dent Union Board and the Provost's Office through the Year of Cultural Diversity. 
I 5 
srFAKS ".
PRIME RIBIW 
• ·\. 

SEAFOOD r=IC . 
~ 

Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 
219-259-9925 • 

---~~--~-----------------­
page 6 

North testifies he became 'fall guy' 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-Oliver North concluded his defense Thursday after six grueling days on the witness stand, tes­tifying he felt he had become the fall guy in the Iran-Contra affair when he heard himself described at a White House news conference as "the only one who knew what was going on." 
Attorney Brendan Sullivan announced soon after North left the stand, "That concludes the defense," signaling that the 11­week-old trial was nearing an end. U.S. District Judge Ger­hard Gesell said he hoped to have closing arguments on 
Monday. Instructions to the jurors and their deliberations would follow. 
During four days of tough cross-examination, North denied prosecution contentions r r that he lied about his Iran­r Contra efforts and personally r profited from some of them. He I said he had explicit authoriza­' tion from his superiors (and, 
he assumed, from President Reagan) for his actions and didn't take a dime he wasn't entitled to. 
He testified Thursday that two days before the Nov. 25, 1986, press conference, in which Reagan and Attorney General Edwin Meese took part, North had been inter­viewed for four hours by Meese and aides. 
He is accused of lying during that interview. But he testified 
Griff 
continued from page 12 

Tribune, put the horror stories to rest. Mter reading her sensitive article, I was almost persuaded. If after reading it, I were tempted to stand in the street yelling "Murderers!" at an abortion clinic, I might have second thoughts about yelling that accusation at the top of my lungs. "Let us reason to­gether, saith the Lord!" If Right-to-Life, forgetting the horror stories, could reason together with Planned Paren­thood, that reasoning might save more unborn children than the shouting we engage 
in as enemies does. But per­haps when I read this in print, I will wish I had blotted this column. 
ATIENTION: 
he told them readily about "the secret within the secret"--that profits from i:l:rms sales to Iran had been funneled to the gueril­las fighting the leftist govern­ment of Nicaragua. Therefore, he said, he was shocked to learn that he might be the tar­get of a criminal investigation. 
What he heard as he watched the press conference on televi­sion, North said, "was incon­sistent with what I told the At­torney General two days before." Meese said North's boss, John Poindexter, had known of the money diversion but hadn't approved it when, in fact, he had. 
North testified, "It was very clear to me that this was part of pointing the finger at Ollie North. He was 'the only one who knew what was going on "which, I must say, is the way it was supposed to be." North's firing and Poindexter's resig­nation as Reagan's national se­curity adviser were announced by Meese that day. 
Both at the trial, which began Jan. 31, and at congressional hearings nearly two years ago, North said he had assumed while he was directing covert aid to the Contras that he would have to take the rap if word got out about the help, which was being provided at a time that official U.S. aid was banned. 
Prosecutor John Keker's final questioning of North con­cerned two letters he wrote in December 1986 to a contractor who had installed a $13,800 se­curity system at North's home. 
MutuiJIC\ 
o/Qmilhil~ 
Companies 

Prutecrionprche!WJ:fOUIM• CHECK OUT MUTUAL OF OMAHA'S CLASS OF '89 
Insurance is becqming a first-choice career for many these days. Stability and steadily increasing financial rewards are two good reasons. Mutual of Omaha is another. Our proven sales system, complete package of modern Total Income Protection products and first-class training are also strong incentives. So are the long-term client relationships our successful agents enjoy. Mutual of Omaha's Class of '89 is entitled to h)gh expectations. Perhaps higher than any new sales representatives in our history. 
Send resume to: BJ Randall P.O. Box 2858 South Bend, IN 46680 Equal Opportunity Companies Mf. 


MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Grad Students, Professors, Employees 

Less than 1 0 minutes from campus 

( also -furnished executive suites ) call for details-277-3731 
@ 
IQUAL HOUSING 
OPPOOTUNm 

The Observer Friday, April 14, 1989 


Abbie Hoffman, shown here having his handcuffs cut from the fence surrounding the Bradshaw Rese~~ir site in Plumstead, Pa. during a protest in July of 1987, will protest no more. A symbol of the poht1cal activism of the 1960's, Hoffman was found dead in his home Wednesday at the age of 51 . 
Congress votes for Contra aid 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-Congress overwhelmingly approved on Thursday a compromise $49.7 million package of non­military aid for the Nicaraguan Contras, giving President Bush a chance to forge a bipartisan policy on Central America. 
The Senate completed con­gressional action on the mea­sure, approving the aid pack­age on an 89-9 roll call vote. 
The House earlier endorsed the plan, 309-110. Voting yes were 152 Democrats and 157 Republicans. Voting no were 99 Democrats ~:1d 11 throw governments in our hemisphere," Wright said. 
At the same time, he added, "It says to Nicaragua that we are very earnest about you ful­filling these commitments that you made to internal democratization." 
In the Senate, supporters of the bipartisan agreement voted down a series of amend­ments aimed at altering or scuttling a plan they said has the potential to usher in an era of cooperation between the ex­ecutive and legislative branches of government on Central American policy. 
Summer. 
STORAGE 
RESERVATION 
CALL NOW 683-1959 
NEW Limited Quantity 
ONLY $18.001nonth 
Master Mini Warehouses 
P.O. BOX 100 NilES, MICHIGAN 49120 
"BEST UTILE STORE-HOUSE IN MICHIANA" 
As part of the graduation process, federal regulations require all students who have borrowed from the Stafford Loan Program (formerly Guaranteed Student Loan) and the Supplemental Loan for Studen~ (S~S) to atte~d .an e~it . interview before leaving the Umvers1ty. The exit mterv1ew Will review your rights and responsibilities for repaying your loan(s), deferment options and loan consolidation benefits. For your convenience, we have scheduled ten exit interview sessions. 
Please plan on attending one. Tuesday, April 18th Lafortune Notre Dame Room 
Wednesday, April 19th Lafortune Notre Dame Room 
Thursday, April 20th Lafortune Notre Dame Room 
7:00-7:.30 PM 7:45-8:15 PM 8:.30-9:00 PM 
2:00-2:.30 PM 2:45-.3: 15 PM .3:.30-4:00 PM 4:15-4:45 PM 
7:00-7:.30 PM 7:45-8:15 PM 8:.30-9:00 PM 
AP Photo 

Friday, April 14, 1989 The Observer 

The Observer I Jennifer Sewall 
Is this spring? 
Two students take advantage of the nice weather by taking a walk around campus on Thursday. Many students wasted no time in celebrating the possibility that spring might have finally arrived in South Bend. 
Local landfill files for bankruptcy 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND-Owners of the Four County Landfill in Fulton County filed bankruptcy petitions so they could concen­trate on the landfill's cleanup, not to avoid paying penalties to the government, according to one of the landfill's lawyers. 
"They did not want to avoid the district court judgment but want to have a method of con­trolling priorities," said In­dianapolis attorney Steven An­cel, commenting on the Chapter 11 bankruptcy peti­tions filed Monday by Four County's owners and their cor­porations. 
The bankruptcy petitions came just two weeks after U.S. District Judge Robert Miller closed the landfill permanently because of the landfill's release of hazardous wastes and viola­tions of U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulations. 
Miller also ordered a cleanup of the 61-acre landfill site and payment of $2,778,000 in penalties to the federal govern­ment. 
"Once the judgment is final, the government is free to levy on the corporation's assets to satisfy the $2.8 million," Ancel said. 
The company wants to clean up the area and needs the money the government might seize to begin to accomplish the task, Ancel added. 
The bankruptcy action was intended to take advantage of bankruptcy laws that result in setting payment priorities, said Ancel, who estimated that the cleanup of the landfill site would cost $5 million to $6.5 million. 
"We have about $3.5 million and want to use that to begin to pay for the cleanup," he said. 
Bankruptcy laws, according to Ancel, set court-ordered penalites last on the list of debts to be satisfied when de­termining the order in which creditors will be paid. Taxes owed to the government gener­ally are on the top of the list. 
Four County owners and their lawyers hope to meet next week with EPA officials to get plans for the cleanup started. 
Asked if Four County planned to appeal Miller's ruling in the Four County case, Ancel indicated an appeal is likely. 
"I think there is no question that an appeal is being consid­ered. If it takes place, it will not involve all aspects of the court decision," he said. 
"There is no intent on the part of the debtors (Four County) to avoid the cleanup responsibilities," he added. 
Four County must file its notice of appeal by April 29. 
Ancel said it "was too early to talk about" if a request will be made to reopen the landfill. 
He noted the landfill is con­tinuing to operate even though waste is not being deposited. 
Without the court ruling against Four County, there would not have been a bankrupcty filing, Ancel said. 
"We did not have creditor problems absent the district court judgment," he said, noting the differences from most bankruptcies. 
Bankruptcy court documents list debts approaching $4.8 mil­lion for Environmental Waste Control, the company that runs the landfill. Assets in the pre­liminary documents were listed in excess of $1 million. 
Among the debts listed on the bankruptcy petitions were $794,000 due to Resources Un­limited, an Indianapolis com­pany that serves as a broker for customers for Four County; $642,000 to the Indiana Depart­ment of Revenue; and $81,000 to attorneys George Plews and George Pendycraft of In­dianapolis, Four County's trial attorneys. 
~~~ 
page 7 

19 Soviet deaths are investigated 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW-A commission is investigating whether soldiers used shovels to beat nationalist demonstrators in Soviet Geor­gia during a clash in which 19 people died, a government spokesman said Thursday. 
In the Georgian capital of Tbilisi, scene of the Sunday confrontation, an estimated 2,000 people marched through the streets for the first funeral for one of the victims, psychi­atrist Zia Djinjaradze, 42, ac­cording to a local human rights activist. 
Pravda, the Communist Party daily, reported Georgian activists have changed their tactics in the face of Soviet troops keeping order in Tbilisi, and are handing out handwrit­ten leaflets to press for a gen­eral strike. But a Soviet official said all of Tbilisi's enterprises were working. 
The Georgian Communist Party's ruling Politburo met Thursday, and said the situa-
Red 
continued from page 1 is to promote the teaching of writing and journalism, and the lecture is made possible through a gift from Coca-Cola USA. Smith, a journalism major at Notre Dame as well as the recipient of a 1968 honorary doctor of laws degree, started writing with the Milwaukee Sentinel. His storied career took him through St. Louis and Philadelphia before joining the New York Herald Tribune in 1945. He remained there until the paper folded in 1966. While at the Herald Tribune, Smith's column entered syndication. He was quickly recognized as one of the most outstanding sports writers in America. Smith finished his career with 11 years at the New York Times. He continued to write columns for that paper until four days before his death in 1982. Much of Smith's work has been collected in books and in The Red Smith Reader. Dedi­cated last March, the Red Smith Collection is now of 
tion remained "strained," with universities and schools still shut by boycotts. It said fac­tories and public transport were operating normally. 
The Tass news agency, in its report on the meeting, gave no word on leadership changes. Local party chief Dzhumber Patiashvili offered to resign Tuesday after accepting re­sponsibility for Sunday's events. Approval by the Geor­gian party's Central Commit­tee would be necessary to 
replace Patiashvili. 
Foreign Ministry spokesman Gennady Gerasimov told a news briefing in Moscow that a commission investigating charges of brutality in Tbilisi was probing whether soldiers who broke up the protest by pro-independence forces were in possession of short metal shovels customarily used for digging trenches. 
"The troops were not sup­posed to have those spades," Gerasimov said. 
Notre Dame's Edmund P. Joyce Sports Research Collec­tion in the Theodore M. Res­burgh Library. 
After his death, Red Smith's family created the Red Smith Writing Scholarship at Notre Dame, awarded annually to a student writer. In addition, Smith was honored at his alma mater with the founding of the Red Smith Lecture Series in 1983. According to Schmuhl, "the series hopes to continue some of the work Smith started, especially his com­mittment to excellence in writing." Red Smith Lecturers have included James Reston, Murray Kempton, and Art Buchwald, among others. 
Maynard will appear Tues­day at 8 p.m. in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education for the lecture and ensuing discussion. On Wed­nesday, he will host a seminar on journalism at 1: 15 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Lounge and will appear in Schmuhl's American Studies 2:20 class. The lecture on Tuesday and the seminar Wednesday are open to the public. 

Viewpoint
page B Friday, April 14, 1989 
LETTERS 

-------.1.-=-Y~'----­
-Ih-e-0-bse-~~r-~ 
Honors student clarifies the truth about program
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
Dear Editor: credit thesis instead of taking Notre Dame Scholars, a title As a sophomore in the Honors Honors classes. While I might which, I believe, is meant to 
Program, I was very interested disagree with Mr. Hennig's as­indicate factors other than in­to read Rob Hennig's View­sertion about class size beyond telligence alone. In the past 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-chief 
point column (The Observer, the freshman year, the distri­year, more students have en­
Chris DonnellyManaging Editor Business Manager 
April 13) about the Program. bution of Honors classes makes tered the Program through a 
Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
While I cannot claim to view the point irrelevant. process of recommendation 
the issue of the Honors Pro­These two points, however, and interview. 
Exec. News Editor .... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Killen 
Viewpoint Editor ................. Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ....... Shannon Roach 
gram without a certain bias, I are more a matter of informa­Finally, I would like to refute 
Sports Editor ...................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks 
do feel that there are some fac­tion and opinion than anything Mr. Hennig's suggestion that
Accent Editor ........................•. John Blasi Systems Manager ............. Mark Derwent Photo Editor ......................•..... Eric Bailey OTS Director ................... Angela Bellanca 
tors which Mr. Hennig has else. A more disturbing part of participation in the Honors 
Controller ............................ Anne L1ndner 

failed to consider. Mr. Hennig's column is his Program leads to grade infla­As Mr. Hennig states, only characterization of the Honors tion. This is utterly ridiculous; 
The Observer is the independent newspaper publisned by the students of the Uni­
those students who actually Program as being run "almost in fact, in at least one instance 
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect 
matriculate at Notre Dame are covertly," with "Masonic a professor has pushed me
the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority 
informed of their admission secrecy. . . private, closed­harder because he felt that an 
of the following: Editor-in-Chief. Managing Ed1tor. Executive News Editor. Viewpoint 
into the Honors Program. He door meetings and secretive Honors student should be capa­
Editor. Sports Editor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Commentaries, letters and the Inside 
seems to feel that this policy, handshakes." ble of better work than I was
Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the tree expression of varying opinions on campus. through 
which "nullifies" use of the Of course students in the doing. 
letters, is encouraged. 

Program as a recruitment tool, Honors Program are quiet I suppose that my writing somehow detracts from the about their participation. We this letter at all seems to be at value of the Honors Program seem to be caught in a double complete variance with the as a whole. However, any at­bind. If we spoke often or silence which I mentioned
EDITORIAL 
tempt to use the Honors Pro­openly about being in the Pro­above. In fact, I did have gram as a tool of this sort would gram, we would be (probably second thoughts about putting attract students who are more rightly) accused of being arro­myself in print as an Honors interested in personal prestige gant; Mr. Hennig seems to feel student; honestly, I have no than in the education and that our silence constitutes wish to seem arrogant or 
Action, attention 
prevent date rape 
values which Notre Dame has "elitism." How can we win? elitist. Mr. Hennig, however, to offer. By timing admissions There is a tacit understand­has created an impression of
An unspoken evil is stalking this and other college 
notifications as they do, those ing within the Program that cutthroats who isolate them­
campuses across the nation. It's called acquaintance 
in charge of the Honors Pro­this is simply not something selves from every segment of 
rape, or "date rape" and it needs to be discussed by 
gram ensure that those stu­you discuss. Sometimes it life and tunnel into the Honors 
both women and men. 

dents who participate will have comes up unavoidably, and Program for four years. This 
Date rape, in which the rapist is known to the victim, 
chosen the University on the most people think nothing of it. simply is not valid; however, 
is a very serious problem because most incidents go 
basis of overall compatibility However, it is not that rare for people and experiences associ­unreported. A few rapes and rape attempts have been 
and not academics alone. someone to challenge an ated with the Honors Program reported at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's in the last 
Mr. Hennig goes on to state Honors student: "Why did they do mean~ great deal to me. I that "class size beyond the choose you? VVhat were your have quietly listened to these
three years, but how many more were not? Students 
freshman year is not much of SAT's? What was your class arguments against the Pro­
aren't aware of date rape until it happens--and it does 
a problem at Notre Dame." rank in high school? What's gram befor'?! and do not intend
happen. 

The classes offered exclusively your GPA ?" The simple truth to do so again. Mr. Hennig is
Groups such as CARE (Campus Alliance for Rape 
to Honors students are, in fact, is that I do not know exactly perfectly entitled to his
Elimination) and Sex Offense Services who actively 
concentrated in the freshman why I was selected for the opinion; however, I believe 
promote awareness and dialogue on date rape provide 
year. As a first-semester fresh­Honors Program. I do not that he should take these facts 
effective ways to get men and women together to 
man, four out of my five classes believe that there is a concen­and experiences into account address the problem. 
were Honors classes; as a first­trated effort to choose the 40 before he disparages or Notre Dame is male-oriented; for 130 years it was 
semester sophomore, my only "most intelligent" students in descredits the Honors Pro­an all-male university. While coeducation has made 
class which was exclusively a given class; I am not sure gram. it a better place to live and learn, men and women 
Honors was my section of Core. how one would go about finding In so far as I am aware, there a way to do so. I do know that
here still do not interact as easily as they should. 
Victoria Esposito

are no classes offered only to the 40 Honors students who are
Socially, men and women at Notre Dame and Saint 
PasqueriUa West

Honors juniors, and senior selected as freshmen are cho­
Mary's are often combatant. 
April13, 1989

Honors students write a three-sen from those designated as
SYRs and formals are the few occasions on campus when students pair up, usually accompanied by alco­hol. No private party at Notre Dame starts without 
University recognizes financial support group 
alcohol. How it finishes, however, is up to the people 
Dear Editor: 

This weekend, April 14 and Experts estimate almost 50 percent of acquaintance 
who attend. 

15, the University will host ap­proximately 800 members of
rapes involve alcohol. But there's no need to sacrifice 
The Edward Frederick Sorin
social life for safety. Men and women must be aware 
Society, a financial support
of each other and the consequences of alcohol abuse. 
group for Notre Dame. Made
Students who drink and act responsibly and encourage 
up of alumni, parents and
others to do the same help prevent regrettable errors 
friends, this wonderful group
in judgment. 

gathers once every year for 
The first step in preventing date rape from occur­
what we call "A Weekend of ring is knowing how to avoid it. The second is report­
Recognition," an effort on the ing date rape when it does. Reporting sexual assaults 
University's part to say thank you for all that they do for
is the only way to bring offenders to justice and 
Notre Dame.
prevent future rapes. 

During the weekend there
It's important to remember that rape victims are 
will be several events, a couple
never at fault. Rape doesn't happen by accident, but 
of which will, unfortunately, in­
it can happen by not thinking. Acting responsibly and 
convenience your usual
thinking about consequences is paramount to preven­
schedule. In particular, on Sat­
tion. 

urday evening we will hold our final event, a dinner, in the North Dining Hall. As a result, ence, but due to some un­those who normally eat in the avoidable scheduling conflicts, North Dining Hall are asked to we had no alternative. Special use the South Dining Hall for thanks, too, to all the students Saturday dinner. participating in the weekend-­
On behalf of the Sorin Soci-the event simply would not oc­ety, please accept our sincere cur without you. gratitude for your great Daniel Reagan '76 cooperation. In no way did we Executive Director want to cause any inconveni-April10, 1989 
Viewpoint would like to occasionally highlight quotes from faculty members, students and readers. So if you or someone you know says something intellectually stimulating, brilliantly funny, or clearly controversial, send the quote to Viewpoint, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
JOANte, /A/HAT YOU HAve 70 
tJNPEiR.5TANP 15 7HGI?e~ A 
torCFAJoJ68R. CN THIS WARP. 
FOR. MOST PATII3NTS, AII?S IS 
A 5Tit5MA ON 70P 

• CF A STIGMA.' SXI!i!YHA5
! YETlVCOMe 70TERMS PI!TH IT. 
&VeRY PAY I 60 IN TO Sli&ANOY,
ANPY fJ5e3 HUMOR. 70 50FTCN 
IUNW/NP.
THe~ Hl3 Fti/31.5 AN{) 70 

AN{)H/3MAI<ES 50MB Te/?R!BL& 
AN{) ON 
HO/.DUP
H/3/..P HIM FAce TH&ABYSS. 

JOKe ABOUTH/5 t£90NS, AN{)I 
YaJRf)AY5 
aJNV/3NieNC&

I &NCOURAG/3 IT, 9eCAIEe 
PlAY 5TRAIGHTMAN, AN{)tue'Re 
OFF2 
:iT0/?5. ?HAT

80TH 5CR/JAMING IN5ff){;, BUT
AII?S CARe IS A80UTHli/.PIN5 
SOI<TOF THING.

IT'S 8e77!3R ?HAN GOING MAP.
PEOPlE COP£3, HelPING 7HCM 

\ 
1?113 IUITH f)IGNITY. .• "-. 
"
"' 

'War on nations change maps. War on poverty maps change.' 
Muhammad Ali 

Viewpoint
Friday, April 14, 1989 page 9 
The phony food invasion strikes ND 
Every year when Lent rolls around I have an awful time deciding upon what it is I'm ac­tually going to 'give up' for six weeks. This past season, however, University Food Ser­vices, in their far-sighted benevolence, solved this hor­rible dilemma for me. On the first Friday of Lent, appearing magically in the cafeteria food pans was the 8th wonder of the world--the Meatless Cheeseburger. That's what I would give up! (I have to say it was a pretty easy Lenten sacrifice, since I did not see this culinary delight all that of­ten thereafter, thus eliminat­ing any temptation I might have had.) Now, I don't know about you, but I had never heard of such a thing prior to that fateful day. It must be French. I can just picture the scene in a gourmet restaurant: 
"Here is our menu, mon­sieur. Our specials today are Fried Frog's Legs, Sauteed horse, and Burger de Fromage sans viande." 
"What's that?" "A meatless cheeseburger, monsieur." "Well, uh... Can I just get a hot dog and a shake?" 
Whatever vast metaphysical and existential paradox is in­herent in the nature of a meat­less cheeseburger (it's made of wheat germ, soybeans, cottage cheese, and something else used as a binder, to glue it to­gether), we must ask ourselves one important question: how 
Usually some small percentage of such a product is actually real, whereas most of it may be simply classified as, well..., 'other.' 
often is what we are eating not really what we think we are eating but really something dif­ferent altogether? The shock­ing truth must finally be known. 
America's first refrigerators, my friends, it seems are being invaded by edible impostors--semi-phony food products. Usually some small percentage of such a product is actually real, whereas most of it may be simply classified as, well... 'other.' 'Other' very often means some type of delectable soy protein that can "stretch 
Glenn G. Fogarty 
With no apologies 
out" many products by about 3&-60 percent. It's used to 'ex­tend' all sorts of salads, make meat patties (re: ever have those 'Veal Grinders' for din­ner? Is that veal?), or form precooked meals like chili or sloppy joes. 
One popular quasi-phony in­gredient goes by the name of 'Standard Chicken Base,' a type of hydrolyzed vegetable protein that tastes like chicken. Here's the ingredients: salt, chicken fat, monosodium glutamate, dextrose, dehydrated vegetable, spices and spice extract, bicalcium phosphate, dehydrated chicken, and citric acid. Sounds real wholesome. Accor­ding to one exhibitor at the Na­tional Restaurant Association Convention in Chicago, "four ounces of it tastes like an extra gallon" of chicken; moreover, "if you want chicken noodle," all you have to do is "throw noodles in." (Turn on the Campbell's--soup is good food?) 
Well, Chicken Base at least has a tiny portion of chicken in it. When we get to the category of meatless meats, however, phoniness reaches truly inno­vative heights. There's a widely used foodstuff that literally goes by the title "Institutional link-sausage like flavor product." That is to say, artificial sausage (but hey! no cholesterol! no fat! ) . These tantalizing treats are made out of various vegetable proteins like wheat protein and soy protein, and are glued together with egg albumen. Yum. With meats like this, pretty soon we'll all be vegetarians, whe­ther we like it or not. 
If you think you're going to escape this type of thing by going to a health food store, think again. Over spring break I stopped into a place called 'Nature Food Centre' and im­mediately felt as though I had entered the Twilight Zone's own grocery store, where noth­ing is as it seems and the real is in fact unreal. I'm convinced that every food now has a phony equivalent. You can buy "Soya Margarine," with noth­ing in it that is even remotely connected with a cow. You can buy "CheSoya" brand Moz­zarella, American, and Jalapeno cheeses too (I suppose the cheese on the meatless cheeseburgers was of this va­riety). You can even buy a 
soybean milkshake if you want to. I did. It was awful. 
For those who for some rea­son have a gripe against our nation's cows, there's "Ah, Soy!" (nice pun) Genuine Soy Milk. Or if you find the yellow color of regular corn chips a bit depressing, you can always purchase Organically Grown Blue Corn Chips, made with "Native American Blue Corn." Even that good, old-fashioned American favorite, ice cream, has an odd assortment of im­itators. One is called "Rice Dream," a frozen 'treat' which comes in various flavors and is made out of the extract of brown rice. If that doesn't strike your fancy there's "Ice Bean," a soybean (and I thought you only used the stuff on top of Chow Mein) delicacy. What's next? Tofu Apple Pie? 
The list goes on and on. My question is: What the devil is wrong with real food? Anyway, there must be a positive side to all of this. If by some horrible chance in the future, all our meat turns out to be meat-less, following the no-meat-on­Fridays bit during Lent will be a lot easier. Glenn G. Fogarty is a sopho­more in the College ofArts and Letters and is a regular View­point columnist. 
Doherty: An honorable and innocent rebel 
a department store, public the new treaty. An attempt to combatant immunity must al-forbidden British radio and
By Charles E. Rice 
tavern or a resort hotel, enforce the new treaty against ways be respected, a require-television to broadcast inter­
In light of recent letters to causing indiscriminate per-Doherty could raise the issue ment inexcusably violated by views with members or sup­the Observer on the Joseph sonal injury, death and prop-of whether the treaty is an un-all-sides in Northern Ireland, porters of paramilitary groups Doherty case, I hope it will be erty damage ... Nor is this a constitutional bill of attainder, including the British as well as in Northern Ireland. At the useful to offer some reasons case where violence was di-since the Doherty case was ex-the IRA and the Unionist same time, the British recently why this case involves a denial rected against civilian repre-plicitly advanced by Adminis-paramilitaries. But Joseph abolished the right of "ter­of procedural and substantive sentatives of the government tration spokesmen as a reason Doherty broke no rules of war-rorist" suspects to remain justice by the U.S. Govern­... Similarly, this is not a case for adopting the new and fare, either in that 1980 fight or silent under interrogation. So a ment. where the alleged political con-retroactive treaty. Instead, the at any other time. If he is a "terrorist" suspect cannot 
On June 18th of this year, duct was committed in a place Administration has kept terrorist, then so was Eamon make his case to the public but Joseph Doherty, a 34-year-old other than the territory where · Doherty confined through un-DeValera who fought the he must speak to his inter­member of the Irish Republi­political change was to be ef-precedented procedural British in 1916 and later served rogator or his silence will be can Army, will begin his fected ... Finally, the court is maneuvers which the Second as prime minister of Ireland. held against him. The only seventh year of confinement in not presented with facts which Circuit Court of Appeals des-Ireland has been sporadi-place he can effectively speak the Metropolitan Correctional establish that hostages were cribed as 'somewhat startling' cally but · persistently is in the police station. Center in New York, an insti­killed or injured or where the in its ruling in Doherty's favor embroiled in rebellion for eight One need not endorse rebel­tution designed only for short­principles embodied in the in March, 1986. Attorney Gen-centuries until the arbitrar;; lion or any specific solution to term detention. He is the Geneva Convention have eral Richard Thornburgh has 0 d t the Northern Ireland problem longest-held prisoner in the clearly been violated." not decided to review a recent ne nee no in order to see that Joseph history of the Immigration and Doherty's activity was part of decision by the Board of Im-endorse rebellion Ddherty is a victim of injustice. Naturalization Service. an organized, political rebel-migration Appeals that Or any specifiC This is evidenced by the fact Doherty has never committed lion. He was a soldier engaged Doherty is entitled to apply for I r . that the Reagan Administra­a crime in this country. He is in limited combat according to asylum in this country. SO U IOn ··· In tion's handling of the case has not a terrorist and has been so the 'classic' model of guerrilla The issue in the Doherty case Order tO See that drawn criticism from such certified by a Federal court. warfare conducted by an or-is neither the IRA nor the gen-Joseph Doherty is varied sources as Cardinal But the Administration thinks ganized, indigenous rebel force eral situation in Northern • • f John O'Connor of New York, he is a terrorist. And so the or­against an occupying army. Ireland. The issue is the a VICtim 0 injustice. Rev. Jesse Jackson, Senator dinary process of law seems The Reagan Administration politicization of American jus-Christopher Dodd (D.-CT), not to apply. responded to Judge Sprizzo's tice. However, it is important division of the country in 1921, Senator Orrin Hatch (R.-UT) 
Doherty was seized in 1983 on decision by presenting to the that Doherty is not, in any in which the British carved an and the ACLU. Never in our a charge that he had entered Senate a supplementary ex-coherent sense of the word, a ungovernable six-county history has the Government of this country on a false visa. The tradition treaty with the United terrorist. "To the people who statelet out of the nine counties the United States dealt with a administration sought to ex­Kingdom which effectively have doubts of my character,'' of Ulster. That statelet has deportation-extradition case as tradite him to the United abolished the political offense said Doherty, "please do not been under continuous emer-it has dealt with the Doherty Kingdom, principally to serve exception which had been a fea-judge me too harshly, but un-gency rule for nearly seven case. The Reagan Justice De­a life sentence imposed after ture of American extradition derstand the environment into decades. Various international partment committed "lee:al his conviction on a murder law since the mid-19th century. which I was born." One need bodies, including Amnesty In-terrorism" in this case. When charge arising out of a 1980 IRA The new treaty was proposed not approve of the IRA to agree ternational, have criticized the they lost a decision they ambush of a British Army in major part as a retroactive that it is conducting a political British legal system in its effort changed the rules and they strike force in which a British method to secure extradition of rebellion in the same sense in in Northern Ireland to demonstrated not only a vindic­Army captain was killed. On Doherty. Mter languishing in which that term can be applied criminalize what is actually a tive disregard for fairness but Dec. 12, 1984, U.S. District the Senate Foreign Relations to rebels in Mghanistan, political rebellion. In Novem-also a subservience to the poli­Judge John E. Sprizzo denied Committee, the treaty was ap-Nicaragua, El Salvador and ber, 1988, the European Court tical aims of the Thatcher Gov­Doherty's extradition on the proved by the Senate in July, South Mrica. The IRA is a of Human Rights held that the ernment. It remains to be seen grounds that the offenses were 1986, after Prime Minister symptom of British misrule, a provision of the Prevention of whether the Bush Administra­"of a political character" and Thatcher allowed American predictable response to the Terrorism Act, allowing tion will do anything to rectify therefore exempt from extradi­planes to take off from Britain seminal violence of the regime. suspects to be held for seven the situation. tion under the treaty with the for the attack on Libya. Presi-As Judge Sprizzo noted, the IRA days without charge, was in Joseph Doherty has commit­United Kingdom then in effect. dent Reagan urged approval of was "dormant" when the violation of the European Con-ted no crime in this country. 
In Judge Sprizzo's words, the the treaty to prove "our wil-British army intervened in vention on ijuman Rights. The He is no terrorist. He is an case presented "the political lingness to support the British 1969; the IRA revived only British Government responded honorable rebel, as was Eamon offense, exception in its most on an issue of terrorism of pri-after the activities of the by exerctsing emergency De Valera. It is time to set Joe classic form." Judge Sprizzo mary importance to them." British army "became a sub-prerogative-not t~ abide by this Doherty free. emphasized that "We are not The Administration has not ject of increasing antipathy provision 6f the Convention and Charles E. Rice is a professor faced here with a situation in formally sought Joseph and concern." Even in a just by making the PTA per-of Law at the Notre Dame Law which a bomb was detonated in Doherty's extradition under war or rebellion, of course, non-manent. The British have also School. 

l_ ... ·--·--·-·-·····-·· -------·-· ---··--·-· ..... --....... ·' .............":i-.,'.., ... •·" :.•: _-_·;.~·~:.:..~ .... ,, ......................~ ..... -.--~-;.;.~--.~, ~-·-----'~'71. ...,__,__ ... ~...................~ . 




r 

fri.
MOVIES 

"She's Having a Baby"
Engineering Auditorium, 8, 10:15 p.m. "Stand and Deliver" Annenburg Auditorium, 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. 
MUSIC 

Corvallis Calling Performing in front of Cushing Hall, 4-6 p.m. 
Center Street Blues Bernard Allison and David Chastain performing at 9:30 p.m. Admission 
1s $4 or free with dinner. 
The Groove Performing at Theodore's, 10 p.m. 
sat. 
MOVIES 

"Die Hard" Engineering Auditorium, 8 and 10:15 p.m. 
MUSIC 

International Festival Sponsored by the International Student Organization, at the Bendix Theater, Century Center, 7:30p.m. Tickets: $2.50 for students and $4 for adults. 
Ballroom Dance Club 
Competition and dance at Dan O'Day's Rose Ballroom, 1071/2 East 1st Street, Mishawaka. 8 p.m. -12 a.m., admission $4. 
Center Street Blues 
Bernard Allison and David Chastain performing at 9:30 p.m. Admission 1s $4 or free with dinner. 
FEATURES 
Fisher Hall Regatta Saint Mary's Lal<e, Catholics in Bad Standing performing from 10:00 a.m.­noon. University Food Services cookout begins at 10:30. Boat races begin at noon. 
THEATER sun. 

"Peaceworks" O'Laughlin Auditorium, St. Mary's at 3 p.m. Tickets: $3 for adults, $2 for children, and $1 for groups over 15. 
Pow-Wow 

Notre Dame Native American Club 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. at Stepan Center 
Peace *works interprets letter 
CHRISTINE McCANN 
accent writer 
T 
he Chicago Call to Action Theatre En­semble promises to bring a new light to Saint Mary's Col· lege's O'Laughlin Auditorium this Sunday at 3 p.m. when the Ensemble brings to life its original dramatic interpre­tation of the 1983 Bishop's Pastoral of Peace. 
Entitled Peace*works, the show is an hour of music, comedy, poetry, and drama designed to enlighten its audi­ence on the actual text of the pastoral letter, while integrat­ing the experiences and reac­tions to peace related issues of Americans, peoples of the Third World, and Biblical 

by Tom. Amandes F'~rith mtl$ic and lyrics by Paul Peace*works nr·emierEld on August 6, 1988 the national convention of 
II 

They went; they saw; they conquered. Notre Dame now has an­other champion ship team. 
,, 


fesses. He won the game for Notre Dame by solving the next three puzzles as well as the bonus round puzzle, "Tug Of War." His total winnings from the game amounted to $15,500 in cash. 
The four chose Bannon to 
compete in the fifth and 
championship game against 
Oklahoma and Miami. Okla­
homa won the first puzzle; 
Bannon won the game for 
Notre Dame, shutting out 
Miami. "We were pretty 
pumped about that," he adds. 
Bannon solved the puzzle, 
"Rock Band." Notre Dame 
won the entire "College 
Week" and set "Wheel's Col­
lege Week" record with total 
earnings of $164,000. 

Mohr, who didn't partici­pate in the team competition, played a regular game against a gentleman from California and a nurse from Oklahoma City. The prizes on this show included a $48,000 Jaguar and a 22-day cruise to the Orient. Mohr solved three of the five puzzles as well as the bonus round puzzle, giving him earnings of $36,600 in cash. No Notre Dame stu­dents chose to play for prizes. 
"Although everyone here 
Pax Christi USA. Father Lawrence Jenko, former hostage in Lebanon and recipient of the Paul VI Teacher of Peace Award from Pax Christi USA said, 
"Peace*works is a marvelous way to present the pastoral and is absolutely on target in reflecting key themes." 
Four members of Chicago's Call to Action, which was formed in 1985, perform "theatre with a message" and introduce a variety of ideas through the use of short skits. The overriding theme surrounds the Supreme · Creator1 who one day decides to visit Earth and much to his chagrin, discovers ubiquitous war and violence. 
In the scene entitled "I Could Have Died," a World War I soldier sings in the.;, trenc~f)l$ a·· .·. • wrenchil}g \!!'! latriet1f on · . .· anity. On, an•.> · other n()te• "The War at ··<n Homen examines a man struggling to was saying 'Beat Miami!' they were the nicest," Mohr said regarding his competi­tors from Miami. Jones added, "They weren't like 'Admit it was a fumble! '" In fact, the students from Notre Dame and Miami have be­come very special friends. After the tapings on Satur­day, two Miami students joined the Notre Dame team for dinner. They exchanged addresses and made plans to meet for next year's football game. 
"We all found it surprising we got along the best with the people from Miami," says Jones. Bannon adds, "We went down figuring Miami would be our biggest rivals." After Mohr's game on Sun­day, the Miami students called him to ask how well he did. 
The small size of the actual wheel and less-than-glittering appearance of the show's set disappointed Jones. Mohr adds, "Pat and Vanna were very nice. They made sure we had fun and that we were comfortable... The fact that they were having fun made it easier for us." The shows air the week of May 15. 
his own anti-war belief and 
consequent refusal to register 
for the draft, as well as the 
values of his parents, who 
feel he is obligated to serve 
his country. Perhaps one of 
the most controversial scenes 
is "A Tale of Two Lunches," 
which explores the earthshat­
tering effect American Con­
gressional bills have on the 
lives of Third World people. 
Peace*works is sponsored by the United Religious Com­munity's Religious Arts Mini­stry, Holy Cross Care Ser­vices, the Poor Handmaids of Jesus Christ, and Linwood, a ministry and retreat center, all in cooperation with the Chicago Call to Action Theatre Ensemble. 
Tickets for the show cost $3 
for adults, $2 for children, 
and $1 each for groups of fif~ 
teen or more. For such a :nominaUee, Peace*works 
promises to provide an "'"' .. r-······ 
·• 
taining afternoon as· well as a 
bit of food for thought. 
Friday, April 14, 1989 

-
In its third year, the Fisher Regatta is history in the making. 
T 
JANICE ARCHER Catholics in Bad Standing, accent writer performs from 10 a.m. until noon. The races begin after omorrow, the this, with University Food n.~/Zoltlln Ury 
third annual Fisher Services providing a cookout Regatta members enjoy life on Saint Mary's lake ­Regatta will take starting at about 10:30 a.m. place at St. Mary's South Dining Hall and half of 
The race will include they sailed. Brian O'Fallon, Lake. This boating North Dining Hall will be several heats, depending on one of the engineers of this event is sure to interest all closing for the afternoon. 
the number of boats entered. pleasure yacht, explained types, nautical and otherwise. The regatta is the The final race will include the that their "goal was to be
Every dorm has the opportu­brainchild of Jay Farraher, winners of all the heats. better-fed than any other nity to organize a team, build currently a junior and presi­
Despite some pressure, Far­boat." They did not attempta boat, and race their dent of Fisher Hall. When raher believes that the to win the speed prize, be­
homemade creations across Farraher was a freshman, he regatta should not include cause as O'Fallon put it, the lake. saw other dorms sponsoring 
club teams. "We would like "You can't enjoy your food if
The festivities start early at campus-wide events and this to remain a dorm compe­you're sweating from the racing site. The band, wanted Fisher to do someth­
tition," he says, the object of rowing." Cavanaugh and ing similar. While he was which is to foster dorm spirit. Lewis, however, thought the walking by St. Mary's Lake, fastest boat prize was worth 
the idea struck him. Thinking The categories of winners 
going after. These dorms will 
it would be a perfect way to are: fastest men's, fastest 
be defending their trophies to­boost dorm morale, Farraher women's and most original. 
morrow. took the concept of Prizes awarded in the past The regatta is designed to 
homemade boat races to his have been dinner at the Mor­be an enjoyable day for all,
rector, and the rest is history. ris Inn, team autographed but concern for others less 
There are several restric­footballs and basketballs, and fortunate is also an importanttions on the dimensions of the T -shirts. Celebrity judges will aspect. Each dorm must payboats. Sails may be con­decide the winners. 
a $20 entry fee, and proceeds structed, and no engines of The "St. Edward's Hall from this collection will go to any kind are permitted. Firebrewed Pic-a-nic War­Andre House, which providesThere must be at least four rior," last year's most food and shelter for the poor people on board, but no more original boat, was constructed in Phoenix, Arizona and Oak­than ten. The most important with three huge blocks of land, California. rule, however, is that the styrofoam tied together. A Already in its third year, boats must be totally man­cooler was cut into one of the the Fisher Regatta is fast be­made. By having teams build blocks, and the main attrac­coming an annual tradition at from scratch, Farraher hopes tion of the "Party Barge" Notre Dame. Even if the tem­

The Observer I Zoltan Ury that students will discover was a full-sized charcoal peratures remain low, spirits Competitors in last years' Fisher Regatta display their crafts new and creative ways to sail Weber grill. The crew cooked will be high tomorrow after­
across the lake. hot dogs and hamburgers as noon. 
AND THE POWER TRIO 
and singing. Parts of this al­bum were actually recorded at Center Street. 
hat is a Duke Anyone who has ever seen Tumatoe? That Duke Tumatoe live <He's was precisely played at Center Street and the question Murphy's this year) would which brought understand Fogerty's decision 
......_.,John Fogerty to Center Street to use a Michiana crowd. 
Blues Cafe last year. While "Tie You Up," this album's ( ......, visiting his girlfriend in Mis-best song, portrays Tumatoe 111111••••-... hawaka, he decided to find and his band, The Power 


out what a band with such a Trio, in true form. The lively strange name had to offer. crowd joins Duke in singing 
What Fogerty found was a "I wanna tie you up, in a hot fiesty, old bald blues man with tub full of mayonnaise and 
­a passion for his wine, his wo­jalapeno peppers and pelt you 
men, and his perverse but with garbanzo beans." Silly catchy sing-a-long tunes. The as it may sound, Duke even result of Fogerty's foray into wants to "stuff croutons in 
fiesty, somewhat sexist and Michiana was Duke's new al­your ears" while you're lying perverse, original composi­bum, "Like My Job." This is there all tied up. It might not The low points of this al­tions. Duke's first major recording sound like fun at first, but bum are two of the blues On the whole, "I Like My ­
and was accomplished with Duke almost makes you want covers Duke attempts. He Job" is a solid and entertain­
the help of musician1urned to break parietals with a ball does a mediocre-to-acceptable ing album. Though you'll producer John Fogerty. of strong twine and an exten­job with Willie Dixon's "Can't never find a deep answer to 
"I Like My Job" is a live sive salad bar. Judge a Book," but Robert anything in Duke's songs, album of, mostly ram­Duke and his band also pro­Johnson's "Sweet Home you'll probably enjoy your­bunctious, crowd participa­vide a fun look at the evils of Chicago" should have been self. And you might even find tion songs. Tracks like "Tie excess indulgence on "If I left off the album. Tumatoe's yourself wandering across You Up," "If I Hadn't Been Hadn't Been High." Duke version of this overused and campus humming "Tie You High," and "More Love, gets much crowd support often abused song did nothing Up" while fantasizing about More Money" get the mid­from lines like "Everybody for me. I would much rather smothering a special someone western crowds on their feet knows I'm not that kinda have heard another of his in and croutons. 






j 

.-------------­
-
pag~ etc.
12 Friday, April 14, 1989 
Thoughtful discussion about abortion 
Hemings and Condell were two players in Shake- because I had no experience in drug counselling, and found  writer's prejudices, so that he can substitute his own. Then  mother had had an abortion, I wouldn't be here now." If  her; her old man had bought her the booze. The parents  
speare's company to whom he  it terrifying to be called on in  a third reader ch~m~s in wi.th  that ~peec~, made in, a ~ear­ re~soned: "The miscarriage  
entrusted his manuscripts.  an emergency. The assistance  a fresh set of preJudices. FI­ ful, tmy voice, doesn t silence  might occur anyway, as Na- 
They wrote in the prefece to  I offered was to talk uninter­ nally, the amateur like  the defenders of Wade v. Roe,  ture's own way, as it often  
the First Folio: "His mind  ruptedly of pleasant things  myself de~ends hi~self in a  then we. all lack c~ass.  d?es early on. All the whiskey  
and hand went together, and  that the descending  tone of vmce that s as querulous as that of his most  What Is needed mall our discourses are the calm,  did was to help Mother Na­ture make up her mind."  
Father Robert Griffin  rabid attacker. Meanwhile, truth, which lies crushed to the ground, is forgotten,  reasonable authoritative voices that can present truth  Those innocents had no thought that what they were doing is what an abortionist  
Letters to c Lonely God  beacause everyone's having such a good time, scoring  objectively without muddying the waters. When's the last  does when he destroys a life. The old-timers thought that  
points and telling each other  time any of us heard an ob- there was clearly a difference  
what he thought he uttered with that easiness that we  in his trust of me, could con­centrate on, instead of losing  off, though the mere on­lookers are bored silly.  jective presentation of the pros and cons of abortion?  between an embryo and a baby. The sinfulness in abor­ 
have scarce received from him a blot in his papers." Ben Johnson's comment was:  his mind to the horrors. I have wanted this column to be a calm, steady voice  Catholics hav~ a way of trying to settle arguments by appealing to the  I'm strongly opposed to abor­tion, and have been, prob­ably, for years before enter­ tions that Christians will the death of a living thing, not caring whether it is an  
"would he had blotted a  that lost birds could get their  heavyweights: Aquinas,  ing the Catholic Church. My  embryo, a fetus, or a viable  
thousand," for he felt that Shakespere, his friend, "most faulted" by the lack of care­ful revision. I'm sure Shake­ directions from, when they were flying home on a wing and a prayer. Eventually, they would be able to get  Augustine, and on the second floor of Stanford at least, Nietzche. I want to answer, "Okay, you have trotted out  mother, as a non-Catholic, had one of those all-American hearts; the neighborhood girls ("girls" is what they  human being. I hate the arguments which students use when they defend abortions in the  
speare, in his time, found much he should have blotted.  their own bearings, and fly off, if they wished, in the op­ your experts. Now tell me how, without deactivating my  called them in those unen­lightened times), in trouble,  paper; but I also dislike the arguments they use when  
It's obvious that I'm no Shakespeare; and looking back over the hundreds of "Letters" I have written, I wish I could blot a number of them. My only excuse is that I have tried to be a voice crying in the wilderness. Years ago, I was awakened in the middle of the night a few times, and asked to talk to students in trouble as they were "coming down" from a drug trip, to keep them from crashing tragically. I was there like the voice from Houston Control, guiding the astronauts home from out of  posite direction, shaking the dust of my voice from their wings; but the voice would be there for them, I hoped, for as long as they needed it. I've never pretended to be a pro­fessional with a strong hold on official truth. The truth I have offered was interim truth that troubled students could get by on, until the real thing came along. One rarely finds truth from the discussions that go on in a news paper. An amateur like myself will fire off an opinion which amounts to little more than a sorting out of his own  mind, I can get from hear in the briar patch, where we are now, to the catbird-seat on high where the Immortals contemplate Truth, or do I just have to believe them without seeing their reason­ing?" The ploy quickest to shut down an argument without resolving anything is in this vein: "You can badmouth the Vietnam war if you want; but if you're right, my brother who was killed there, laid down his life in vain." How could you want to continue arguing after than heavy ar­ would talk to her before anyone, even their own mot­hers. There was more rever­ence for life in my mother than there was in Albert Schweitzer. I learned such a respect for life from her that I refused to have either of my Darby O'Gills neutered as puppies, although the veterinarians always sugges­ted it, to save the world from being overrun with homeless dogs. I remember hearing of a scene in which the young mother of one was faced with the breakup of her marriage.  they're arguing the right-to­life, because they always tell you the horror-stories of al­most full-term, gurgling ur­chins needing to be clubbed to death, after being aborted, as if this were the norm, and as though the doctors who ter­minate pregnancies were al­ways monsters. In addition, they usually tell you more than they could possibly know to be true about the person-hood and ensoulment of ge­netic material programmed to be a human child on the way to birth. In January, a woman doc- 
space. The only difference was that I wasn't calling the plays as Mission Control does; and it's as well,  prejudices. A reader, taking umbrage, will write a grieved, petulant, and ironic letter in which he attacks the  tillary was fired at you? How could you continue after this : "All I know is that if my teenage, pregnant, unmarried  She got drunk on strong whis­key, hoping to get sick to her stomach, and suffer a miscar­riage. Her parents were with  tor, writing in the South Bend · see GRIFF 1 page 6  


SUB WANTS YOU 
Come find out about us at our Open House and Ice Cream Reception Monday, April 17 6:30 -8:30 SUB Office, 2nd Fl. LaFortune 
ou can be a part of these commissions. • 
-
Music 

-
us Entertainment 
Friday, April 14, 1989 The Observer page 13 
Federal court convicts agents Lloyd, Bloom 
Associated Press acy and mail fraud. They each message in the verdicts. Walters and Bloom were con­Iowa and was not required to 
face up to 55 years in prison "I think the message is that victed of conspiring to defraud decide the facts regarding
CHICAGO--A federal court and fines of up to $1.25 million. the federal criminal laws apply six schools big Ten Confer­Notre Dame and Temple be­jury Thursday convicted sports Bloom was in tears and Wal­across the board to the univer­ence members Michigan, Mic­cause only two fraudulent acts agents Norby Walters and ters looked downcast as the sities, to the athletes and the higan State, Iowa and Purdue, were required to meet the rack­Lloyd Bloom of defrauding two verdicts were read in the court­agents who do business with as well as national football eteering standard. 
universities by using cash to room of U.S. District Judge them," Valukas said. 
champion Notre Dame and "It was perhaps the mostlure college athletes into sig­George Marovich, where the Marovich set a hearing Temple. But the pair was con­conscientious jury I've seen inning improper contracts, and Thursday on the government's 
trial began last month. victed of actually defrauding 20 years of practice," Valukas
of threatening to harm clients Attorneys for both men request for forfeitures of only two Michigan and said. at other schools if they tried to promised to appeal the guilty $250,000 by Walters and Purdue. The trial featured testimonyrenege. verdicts. $125,000 by Bloom. Under rack­Representatives of Purdue from a diverse group. Included The jury deliberated 40 hours 
"We'll take them in the next eteering laws, the government and Notre Dame could not be were a handful of professional
over six days before convicting round," Walters said. "We'll be can seek to recover profits reached for comment athletes, entertainer DionneWalters, 58, and Bloom, 29, vindicated.'' which result from an illegal Thursday night. Warwick, star prosecution wit­both based in New York, on U.S. Attorney Anton Valukas scheme. The jury acquitted Walters ness and admitted Colombocharges of racketeering, con­called the trial a "war for both The judge also set sentencing and Bloom of mail fraud counts family crime member Michael spiracy, racketeering conspir-sides," but he said there was a for the week of May 23. involving Michigan State and Franzese. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 until 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All ctassifieds must
Classifieds 
be prepaid. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  HOUSE FOR RENT OVER THE SUMMER-NEAR CAMPUS. 232-3616 FOUR FLAGS FARM BED AND BREAKFAST CONVENIENTLY LO­CATED 20 MINS. FROM NO. IDEAL FOR ALL NO ACTIVITIES. 616-471­5711.  "PASSPORT" RADAR DETECTOR RATED# 1 IN WORLD ALL ACCESSORIES INCL. PAID OVER $400 X3201 $300 BO MOVING OFF-CAMPUS? Recliner, sofa and other misc. furniture for sale. For more into, call Jana 2S8-0129  I need three Graduation tickets Will pay big bucks. call Chuck at 1173 •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••...... ITS COMING ...... ANTOSTAL'89 FINAL SIGN UPS TUESDAY APRIL 18 6-8P.M. S.U.B. GOLF TOURNEY, AIF BAND,  YOUR MOTHER SMELLS OF ELDER­BERRY Come to the St. Ed's Charity Carnival or I shall taunt you a second time! MILES, MILES, MILES! IT'S FRIDAY AND YOU OWE ME FIVE $$$$$! LIZA  GRADUATE SCHOOL PREPARATION A FACULTY PANEL WILL DISCUSS RE­SEARCH, APPLICATION, SELECTION. MONDAY, APRIL 17, 4:00P.M. NOTRE DAME ROOM (LAFORTUNE). ALL CLASSES AND MAJORS INVITED. JUNIORS ENCOURAGED TO ATTEND. SPONSORED BY CAREER & PLACE­ 
NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK 808 Howard St. just oft of N.D. Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 233-2342 Wordprocesslng-Typlng 272-8827  MALE GRADUATES Furnished rooms, air, kitchen, fridge, 5 min. N. campus. 272~15. 2-BDRM APARTMENT AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER CALL 271-8904 ##  1986 FORD T-BIRD, 3.8 V~, white 41,000 miles. Under extended war­ranty (until 57000 miles). $7100 Call 277-5316 evening, 239-7388 day 10 speed bike for sale good condition $40 or best offer call 283-3S82  MATTRESS RACE, TIRE ROLLING, IM­PERSONATIONS, CHARIOTS, PILLOW FIGHTS, TUG OF WAR SLAM DUNK, OBSTACLE COURSE, KISSER, CKALK DRAWING DON'T FEEL LEFT OUT!!!! SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES  HAPPY 21ST MIKE HOUGH!!!!!!J!J!II!! LOVE THE FESTETTES Thank you DAVE JANDRIC from the NO community for breaking RICK PURCELL'S nose! P.S. Rick, It was a mistake to skip the 7th & 8th grade.  MENT. CUT THE ROSE BEFORE IT GROWS Dldya get a DINING HALL Survey? Old you 1111 It out yet? Old you send It In yet? Please help us out and send ft in. You can send it Campus Mail, and it won't  
TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 277-7406 TYPING term paper&Teportsl let­ter&Tesumes Pick up & delivery available. 277-5134 10am-llpm. RESUMES, reports, etc. typed on a computer. Call Sue's Secretarial Ser­vice any11me at 299-0063. EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. TypingWordprocessing 277-5014 POW wow··pow wow···pow wow·.. ...Pow wow·..pow wow•..pow wow SUNDAY STEPAN CENTER  Staying for the summer? Need a place to sleep? Sublease our APT!!!!!! TURTLE CREEK! FULLY FURNISHED! call 277­3346. MARION STREET "FRAT HOUSE" FOR RENT 9person oc­cupancy,2baths,bsklbllcrt pool tbl,3rd floor bar&party room 3 car garage,fire place,washer&dryr must see this home !call 289-1233 SUMMER APT-2 BR, Turtle Creek Fully lurnished-call 2598 Turtle Creek Apt for sublease during summer months; call Felix 3368 or Matt 325S 710 REX STREET CLEAN HOME, 3-5 BEDROOMS, 2 BATHS 89-90 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL CHUCK GLORE AT 232·1776. OWN ROOM. Apt .V excel. amenities. Built in desi<Shelves. Considerate male or female non-smoker. $195 ¢ 1J2 util. Call 2S6-1S38.  TICKETS NEED 3 GRAD TIX $$$ 277-0548 PAT PERSONALS hi ag GATHER AGAINST APARTHEID TODAY!! 12:15 PM at DOME STEPS AN TOSTAL'89 GENERAL MEETING NO LIBRARY AUDITORIUM MONDAY APRIL 17 9 P.M. ······························ FOREIGN STUDENTS Job-Hunting Guide (Rev. 1989). Send $19.951or the step-by-step guide. lvysoft, PO Box 241090, Memphis, TN 38124 SCAP .... The Word ol the Future!!! Use it NOW!! SUMMER JOBS  APPLICATIONS FOR NEXT YEAR CABINET POSTITIONS DUE FRIDAY!! SOPHOMORES SSOPHOMORES Happy Birthday Jerry Long Happy Birthday Jerry Long Happy Birthday Jerry Long I need a ride to IU for Little 500 weekend. Can leave anytime, will pay for gas. Please call Kathleen at # 2666. John and I need a ride to the Unlv. of Day1on this weekend. Will pay. Call Paul at # 3610. Looking for a ride to Miami of Ohio this weekend. Will help with costs. Call Sarah at 1825. RIDE NEEDED· DAYTON,CINN,COLUMBUS AREA· WEEKEND OF 4-21 CARRIE 284-541S  Oh Holy St Jude Apostle & Martyr great in virtue & rich in miracles near kinsman of Jesus Christ faith-slut intercessor of all who invoke your patronage in time of need to you I have recourse and from the depth of my heart I humbly beg to whom God has given such great power to come to my assistance.Help me in my present and urgent petition. In return I promise to make your name known & cause you to be invoked. 3 Our Fathers 3 Hail Marys and 3 Glorias. Publication must be prom-ised. St Jude pray lor us and all who invoke your name. Amen. DH .. .................................................. ROSES ARE RED; VIOLETS ARE BLUE; WE STICK TOGETHER LIKE EL­MER'S GLUE. HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY, ERIC. I LOVE YOU! NANCY Janet, my love: You are a ray of sunshine in my darkened souL Your smile infects me with happi­ness. Wanna do lunch again sometime? Let me know. Ciao, ME  cost you anything. Make sure your opinions are known THE MAGIC MOMENT is at MIDNIGHT! KCC turns 21--HAPPY BIRTHDAY Katie, with lots of love! BARBARA BILLINGSLY'S OINTMENT MC CORMICK'S 10 P.M. TONIGHT COME SEE CZAR'S NORGE-LIVE! MC CORMICK'S TONIGHT 10 P.M. BARBARA BILLINGSLY'S OINTMENT COME SEE RICK EAT FROM CZARS NORGE VSOCI! HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! DON'T TELL ME YOU WEREN'T EXPECTING THIS. WE LOVE YOU1 HUG,POKE,PUDS,CHUNK,WOBS ELIZABETH (IGGY), YOU WALK ATOP THE CHAIRS LIKE A BALLERINA AT PLAY. JUST A SIMPLE THANK YOU FROM THESE ONCE STARVING EYES. SYLV: IS THE 2ND FLOOR OF HAYES­HEALY REALLY THE BEST PLACE TO ••• CONCEIVE??? •••  
POWWOW POW WOW POWWOW POWWOW SUNDAY-STEPAN CENTER-ALL DAY  Rooms for rent, $12Mno; ALSO 2 Bedroom home for rent on NO Ave 272-8306 CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS, REN­TING NOW FOR SUMMER. 2  ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-l!00-343-8373.  SEAN & THE SUN KINGS live at club 23 come hear the music friday night at 1Opm  TONIGHT!!! One night only!!! THE BULLDOG BLUES BAND appearing live at ZB FALCONS 321 S. Sheridan  ENGINEERS' WEEK Treasure Hunt--Clue # 5 If you follow the clues And get there first,  
\ LOST/FOUND I FOUND: ONE SET OF KEYS ON SOUTHQUAD BENCH OUTSIDE ALUMNI HALL ON THURS. PLEASE CALL J.C. AT 1001 TO CLAIM. LOST: Gold Bracelet in North Dining Haii­Fianner area. It is a promise bracelet from my boyfriend; you can see why it has great sentimental value and is irreplace· able. If you find it or have any information, PLEASE call Jennifer at x3590. REWARD. LOST: SET OF KEYS room 213. Call Julie at # 3567. LOST: GOLD WEDDING RING SOME­WHERE BETWEEN 01 AND DILLON. IT HAS DEEP SENTIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE CALL 283-2447 IF FOUND. WILL PAY A REWARD OF CASH OR OTHER SERVICES SHALL BE REN­DERED. LOST: Gray Ladies SWATCH Sat. Lost on or near South Quad. If found please call 284-S504. LOST-Yellow Mino~a weatherproof camera at Stepan courts 45 REWARD  BEDROOMS FURNISHED-UTILITIES INCLUDED-SHORT TERM LEASES. $410 PER MONTH. CALL 272-1441 WANTED FRUSTRATED? Need Money? Part time,13K-53K year. Now seeking highly motivated people for opportunities in management and sales. I need help now' Call Phil 219-232-4783 CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE WANTED FOR AIRLINE SERVING SOUTH BEND. PLEASE CONTACT J.GEDRA, CONTINENTAL EXPRES STANDARD OIL BLDG, CLEVELAND, OHIO 4413S. I NEED GRADUATION TIX IN A BIG BIG WAY!! CALL DAN # 3495 $$$$$$$$ CLERKS M-F 1Opm to Sam ;Sam to 12m 4.25-hr M-F 9am to 4pm 4.()()-hr Great Little Food Store 12760 US 23 Granger 277-8102 ACT IN TV COMMERCIALS. NO EXPE­RIENCE. ALL AGES. CHILDREN, TEENS, YOUNG ADULTS, FAMILIES, ETC. HIGH PAY TV ADVERTISING. CALL FOR CASTING INFORMATION.  Desmond Tutu is IN STEP NY, NJ, MA, and Ml are IN STEP Little Steven is IN STEP U ol California, U of Massachusetts U of Wisconsin, Georgetown, Harvard, and Columbia are IN STEP The Holy Cross Fathers are IN STEP All of the above are IN STEP becaus they support divestment & sanctions in South Africa. Are you IN STEP?? If so, come to a musical celebration with the Anti-Apartheid Network and ALAN FAYE & THE McNEILLSI!!! FRIDAY--6 to 8 PM­• DOME STEPS!! .................................................... JJUNIORS-JUNIORS-JUNIORS­JUNIORS .... Save your money, senior trip sign ups coming soon !!!!! JJUNIORS-JUNIORS-JUNIORS­JUNIORS .... "Triple A Student Painters" now hiring college and high school students for sum­mer. Good wages. Call 291-2158. Saturnallan Delights! (for all you Epicureans!) Come peruse the 51 Ed's Charity Carnival and par­take In scintillating folderol guaranteed to pique the Interests of even the most lugubrious of the hoi polloi. It's not a vicariously experienced existentialist dream-It's real! Bibulousness strictly prohibited.  DRINKS,FUN AND MUSIC FRIDAY AT CLUB 23 SEAN & THE SUN KINGS Martha-1. Be happy. 2. Try not to hurt other people. 3. And hope to fall in love. Happy 19th' Love ya, Kerry To my April Fool, Happy 19th B-Day!! From someone who loves you in Colorado COYLA COYLA COYLA COYLA COYLA HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY TO A WOMAN WHO DOESN'T BELIEVE IN ONLY GOING HALF WAY. HAVE FUN 1111 O'CONNOR O'CONNOR O'CONNOR THE BALLOTS HAVE BEEN COUNTED! IT'S OFFICIAL! JOHN HOWARTH AND PAT DANAHY ARE NOW THE OFFICIAL PRESIDENTS OF THE SWEENEY SISTER FAN CLUB. CONTACT THESE RED HOT BABES FOR CONCERT INFO ANDOR INFO ABOUT THOSE SEXY SISTERS! In case anyone has forgotten, Phil Kraker is the reigning God of Flanner Hall. So if you see him today or any day, slap him on the back and tell him.  off Western Ave in South Bend Blues! Sultry Blondes! Reggae! Folk! Bad Jokes! Long legs! Suggestive Lyrics!! More tun than human beings should be allowed to have!ll ELVIS COSTELLO ELVIS COSTELLO ELVIS COSTELLO ELVIS COSTELLO ELVIS COSTELLO will be at Northwestern U. on April 22. Tix are $25 and go on sale TODAY AT 3pm in the SUB office Concert ticket and transpo included Jim-You are definitely one hot commodity. Come wfth me to the LEWIS HALL FORMAL and let's set the night on lire. :-) NATIVE AMERICAN POW WOW SUNDAY STEPAN CENTER ALL DAY POWWOW POWWOW POWWOW POWWOW  You shall not thirst CALCUTTA RAIN LIVE AT CLUB 23 SATURDAY APRIL 1S 10:00 CALCUTT A RAIN JOS-A-LINGUS ALLEN, MAY GOD FILL YOUR HEART WITH JOY AND YOUR STOMACH WITH ALCOHOL (AND DOUGHNUTS). HAPPY B-DAY! 4-16 LOVE SPUD AND PISSY. SMC FRESHMAN THIS IS YOUR LAST CHANCE TO PICK UP YOUR BOXERS FROM FRESHMAN FORMAL YOU CAN PICK THEM UP IN MCCAND­LESS RM.109 ON MONDAY AND TUESDAY FROM 7-9. IF YOU DO NOT PICK THEM UP ON THESE DAYS THEY WILL BE SOLD TO OTHER PERSPEC­TIVE CUSTOMERS. THIS IS YOUR LAST CHANCE! SO PICK THEM UP! SMC FRESHMAN LOOK FOR THE FRESH. FORMAL PICTURES IN THE GAMEAOOM!! TRISH MCLAUGHLIN AND TOM MCCARTHY HAPPY 21ST COWTIP­ 
contact Geoff Weidner 283-2213 FOUND: Gold-leafed watch .V Inscription: "REEG'S ON THE ISLAND" Lost: REEG'S on the ISLAND GOLD  CHARM STUDIOS, (313) 542-8400 EXT. 2283. I have a job, but I need a place to live. Looking for roommate(s) to share costs on apartment in Chicago Call Keith x4197 GREAT PART-TIME OPPORTUNITY  LIVE IT, LOVE IT ZEPFEST Ill 1628 PORTAGE AVE. THIS FRI. (4:00P.M.) AND SAT. (3:00 P.M.) GET THE LED OUT!!!  YES, IT'S TRUE, I'VE GONE POWER MAD! I'VE TAKEN OVER THE PER· SONAL SECTION OF THIS PAPER AND NO ONE CAN STOP ME! HAl HAl HAl NONE OF MY PALS BETTER GET ON MY BAD SIDE! -MOLLY  NATIVE AMERICAN POW WOW POWWOW POWWOW POWWOW POWWOW  PERS FROM HELL! LOVE, LE ANN, TRICIA, JEN, COLLEEN, AND THE DL­LON GUYS. KELLY O'BRIEN HANG IN THERE BABY DOLL! SUMMER IS JUST AROUND THE CORNER AND I'LL BE WAITING IN NEW YORK! LOVE TAW  
WATCH Please return, Engagement gift .V great sentimental value. CALL Francis: x1436. BIG REWARD $$$$$.  GAIN EXPERIENCE AND EARN MONEY by working on Fortune 500 Companies' marketing programs on campus. 2-4 FLEXIBLE hours each  CALCUTTA RAIN Saturday at Club 23 Get Wetter!-10 p.m.  THANK YOU ST. JUDE  Welcome to NO Katrin! I love you!-Liesl Brian, PSYCHII But really, Madonna still sounds  HAPPY 20th KIM!  
week. Applications being taken for Im­ like Minnie Mouse on helium. You have  We love you! Your "lriends" on 3-S  
FOUND: Lady's ring near Grotto. Call Jan 234-a548 evening to Identify. FOR RENT NICE FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. 287-6389, 683-a&89. GRADUATE STUDENT Beautiful room, private bath, laundry, kitchen privileges, aecurlty ayatem, 12  mediate and Fall 89 openings. Call: 1-l!~21-1543. FOR SALE BUICK Skyhawk; 1986; 38,000 miles; Ex­cellent condition; $5,500. Call Ranjini at 233-5718 MOVING OFF-CAMPUS? Recliner, sola and other misc. furniture  If anyone is staying in South Bend for the summer and needs a roommate or would like to get an apartment, call Tony at x1537 HEY -to the guy on the rider board offering a ride to D.C. on the 28th if you still need a rider, call Brett at x2034. thanx Marth-Oh no! Mother ... please giv me some more petit marshmallows in my hot cocoa. I'm giving you $10,000 for your B-day ... I lied. 143-MS  Harry "PSYCHO" Neidig turns 21 this weekend. The world quivers at the threat of impending doom. Call this "ROTC god'l'ballroom dancer extraordinaire" a call at 2287 to wish him a happy Bday. Thank You St. Jude. EZ CATS-Good Luck in your game today!! Thanks for riching us Wednesday night-We're looking forward to dining wfth you again­ NO taste! GRADUATE SCHOOL PREPARATION A FACULTY PANEL WILL DISCUSS RE­SEARCH, APPLICATION, SELECTION. MONDAY, APRIL 17,4:00 P.M. NOTRE DAME ROOM (LAFORTUNE). ALL CLASSES AND MAJORS INVITED. JUNIORS ENCOURAGED TO ATTEND. SPONSORED BY CAREER & PLACE­MENT. Ed Guinan--You have an admirer so be ready for some fun this weekend at Zep  TCC  P.S. Go eat worms!! HHA EAR AN S II TTV VA EL D S APRIL 23, STEPAN  
mtna. from c.mpua. 272--5989. .~.:':::.~:.......-.:.:t.:.........:.t.:.........:~::..........;~r·  for sale. For more info, call Jana 258-0129 ....~ .........:.~~............·.~.: .........~.~ .........:.'!:.....  . y  ......... ~.!".'..........:.~...........~: ...........~.:.......  ·tTHE GIVENS .., .. ..........................................................._...  Fest. Too Shy To Sign ' --­'  


page 14 The Observer Friday, April 14, 1989 
ND lacrosse faces Denison 
Irish look to defense for support in weekend road trip 
The Observer I John Studebaker Sophomore Dave Barnard and the Notre Dame lacrosse team goes on the road this weekend where it will face Denison on Saturday. 
•.........~ 0 
•.;a .., 

• 
By PETE LaFLEUR Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team will find itself in a familiar position Saturday when it travels to Granville, Ohio to square off against rival Denison. 
The Irish (6-3) are riding a six-game winning streak, which includes big wins over Air Force and Kenyon. When Notre Dame hosted Denison last season, the Irish were on a similar six-game winning streak. 
In that game, the Irish broke out to a 4-1 first quarter lead. But the Big Red roared back to dominate possession and post the 14-6 blowout victory. 
The Irish have learned from last year's game and should be able to correct last year's deficiencies, according to senior defenseman Brendan Cahill. 
"Looking back on last year and the first quarter, we know we can play with them," said Cahill about the 7-2 Big Red. "We know what we did well in that quarter and what we did poorly later on, so we'll be ready Saturday." 
In order to improve on their 2-7 series record with Denison, Notre Dame will continue to look for leadership and consis­tency from its veteran defen­sive unit. The Irish defense boasts four seniors and two younger returning lettermen and this year has held oppo­nents under an average of seven points per game. 
It was such a defensive effort that held Lake Forest to a single goal Wednesday in Notre Dame's 15-1 rout at Lake For­est. But Cahill pointed out that such an accomplishment is a credit to the entire team. 
"Our offense controlled the ball most of the (Lake Forest) game and that always helps the defense," he said. 
"Also, we played good defense overall," he continued. "And I think when they got good shots, Tom (Duane) and Jeff (Glazier) made great saves." 
Denison will throw a tradi­tionally balanced and troubling attack at the Notre Dame defense, according to Irish head coach Kevin Corrigan. 
"The main thing about Denison is that they never have an individual star on their team," Corrigan said. "They always have a bunch of good players and it's hard preparing for them because they're such a good team." 
Denison is currently ranked eighth in Divison III., which is easily comparable to a Top 20 ranking in Division I. 
Such a prowess can be seen in who Denison' has beat. The Big Red has already defeated Michigan State and Ohio State, who both will battle the Irish in late April for the NCAA tournament western bid. 
"This is a very important game for us, because they have already beaten Michigan State and Ohio State and it should be interesting to see how we match up," Corrigan said . 
Corrigan said the Notre Dame defense will have to match the balance and team ef­
fort they expect to  see  from  
Denison's  offense  with  a  
similar team effort.  

"This is a game where we really need the whole defensive unit to play well because of how (Denison) plays," he said. "Basically, they take advan­tage of whatever spot is open. But I think we're very capable of that (playing well as a unit)." 
That group effort will be anchored by the play of start­ing defenseman and senior tri­captain Kevin O'Connor. He is joined on the starting line by juunior Mike Stevens and soph­omore Dave Barnard. 
Three more Irish defeneman play key roles on the defensive middie line (Two defenseman and a midfielder). Senior tri­captain Doug Spencer alter­nates with either sophomore Eomon McAnaney or senior Warren Sanger as they join freshman middie Kevin Patrick on an aggressive de­fensive midfield line. 
Cahill rounds out the regular defensive rotation, entering the game on crucial clearing and man-down situations. He at­tributed much of the defensive success to assistant coach Jerry Byrne. 

Women 
continued from page 20 
quality teams." 
Rodrique picks Sparky's Franchise £2, Hoosier Lawyers, and Four Freshmen with Lipps to be among the best teams in the tournament. 
Sparky's Franchise £2 looks to be the team to beat this year as they sport senior Ellen Mouch and graduate student Sandy Botham--both former members of the women's var­sity basketball team. 
Botham, who was named Miss Bookstore last year and led Give Me Your Address There to the championship over Yurtles and Turtles, will replace the hole left in the low post on Sparky's Franchise after the graduation of former varsity basketball player Kathy Brommeland. 
Hoosier Lawyers comes into this year's tournament with signifcant experience as well, and law students Kathy Meyers and Nancy Butler will try to lay down the law in the South bracket. 
Julie and Tammye Radke lead the way for Two Words, a talent-laden team picked to survive a tough West bracket and challenge for the bookstore championship. 
A young quintet of players from Lewis' interhall champi­onship team will join forces on Four Freshmen with Lipps to present a threat despite their lack of experience in the tourn­ament. 
Sue Lippa and Lori Ciccone will be the guiding force of the squad. 
Rodrique has also picked an­other 12 teams to be among the top finishers in this year's tournament. 
In the North bracket, Con­scious Party, with Kellie try to take Keith, John, Flanner O'Brien and Becky Dulin, will and Two Other Worthless Tow­challenge Ellen Nichols and ers past the formidible players Jean Browne of The Hard Li­of An Angel, Sally's Comet and quors for dominance. Three Other Heavenly Bodies 
And Betsy Mennen of Three which features the playing-­of Marv's Rejects and Two of and coaching--finesse of Irish His Stars will try to utilize the head coach Muffet McGraw strength of members of the St. and assistant coach Yvette An­Mary's basketball team to gel of the Notre Dame women's emerge victorious in this basketball team. bracket. Aunt Flo and The Four Plugs 
Teeter and the Four Totters, will try to use varsity volleyball another St. Mary's team, will players Kathy Cunningham try to use the skills of Teeter and Maureen Shea to stop any Clemens and Genevieve Bais­ley in the West bracket to get 
A POST-VICTORY sketch of Mi­
past fellow Belles Mary King 

khail Gorbachev, landslide winner
and Karen Handloser of Run 

of the Soviet election: ". . . a young man, and at once a pro­gressive and a despot, as often 
SMC. And, Minnesota Minus 
One, yet another team hailing 

happens with Russians" (Fathers
from St. Mary's, will need 

and Sons, Ivan Turgenev, 1862).
Margie Fox and Jill Hulbert to 

be at their best if they are to For an introduc­capture the West bracket. tory 15-issuc sub-In the South bracket, Julie ~~~~~"RE:~w ~~; 
Bernhardt and Cathy Olson will just s17.95, can 
'**********·.-.~*_*_*..***** 
ALL AMERICAN SELF STORAGE 
-

5213 N. Grape Rd. Mishawaka 
272-4434 
1/4 mile South of University Park Mall, next t 

-circle Lumber 

Reserve your space with us NOW! 
• 
Managers on-site 


• 
Electronically controlled gate with 24hour acces 

• 
All sizes available 



******************* 
Have a heinous B-day Mardeci! 

other teams from leaking out of this bracket and force the Hoosier Lawyers into a spotty performance. 
In the East bracket, Ann Riley and Trish Tierney of Su­preme Court will try to give the Playmates Reunited the death sentence. 
And Dianna Gullot of Revenge of Reefer's Chicks will try to help her team slip past Sparky's Franchise £2 to take the bracket as well. 



Friday, April14, 1989 The Observer page 15 
Sprinter got steroids at Clemson 
Associated Press 
TORONTO--Clemson Uni­versity is where he was put on muscle-building steroids for the first time, a Canadian sprinter and long jumper told a government inquiry into drugs and sports Thursday. 
Dave McKnight said he and fellow Canadian Desai Wil­liams took steroid pills to­gether while on track scholar­ships at Clemson in 1979. 
"I clearly recollect we used to joke about it, we used to laugh about how big and how strong we were getting," said McKnight, 30, the lOth Canadian track athlete to ad­mit at the probe to using banned drugs. 
McKnight said the program was the idea of conditioning co­ach Sam Colson and included at least one other Canadian ath­lete, Raymond Daley. McKnight, Williams, Daley and another Canadian, Cornell Messam, were roommates. 
Bookstore Basketball results, future dates 
Thursday's Results Stepan 3 Stepan 3 Lyons 12 Bookstore 9 4:00 ·One jerk too many over Burning discharge by 4:00 -Big Ball Boys vs. The Magnanimous 4:00 -CJ's Pub vs. 4 Cheerleaders & a Stiff 
4:00 -Murphy's Bar over lggy Pop at the Buzzer by 4 Chubbies 4:45 -Doyle's Dynamic Dunkers vs. Pistachio 
13 4:45 -What's Maya burning over Passion Riders by 4:45 -The Go Team vs. John Tower, Keith Stu 
4:45 -4 Dribblers & a shoot over 4 Studs & a Canuk 8 Tower,& 3 Guys... 5:30 -Jeff & 4 Skins vs. Hit & Run by 11 5:30 -Help! Can't buy me love, the night before... 5:30 -5 reasons ND revised the Alcohol Policy 6:15 -Cheg Lab 782: Resilience and lift.. vs. 
5:30 -Fighting Kernals over Maureen MacFadden over Team Phlegm by 8 vs. Chicks & Booze The Facully Jqkes Passion Seekers by 14 6:15 -So much like the Beatles it'll make you... over 6:15 -01' hounddog gonna eat it up vs. Shootin' Saturday's Games 
6:15 -The Bar 0' Cash over Running Scared by 4 One Point or Bust by 16 
blanks SMC-Angela Athletic FacUltyBookstore 10 Stepan 4 Stepan 4 
Court 1 

4:00 -Howie's Heroes over Rushdie stands a better 4:00 -Global Order Trotters over John Tower's Drink­4:00 -Small but huge vs. No telching allowed 1:00--Globetrotters vs. Ball-handlers chance by 7 ing Buddies by 10 4:45 -The EMBA weekend warriors vs. Mary 2:00--5 most undesirable...vs. 5 gins better than 
4:45 -We're better in bed over Development Dawgs 4:45 -Dawn is Smooth over EE's know how to use 3.1415 Tower 
by 9 their hardware by 5 5:30 -Prop 42: Why we're not playing varsity 3:00--4 Squids & a Civie vs. Wait 'til you see us 
5:30 -Jerry's Kids over We would rather win games... 5:30 -Melancholy over Next best thing to a bye vs. James & the highway robbers really playby 13 by 2 
6:15 -Gene's Produce vs. Sport Death 4:00·-Ballhandlers(Susan & Sonia) vs. We wanna 
6:15 -Tex Toomey's Last Chance Cafe... over Flip 6:15 -Coachs over L.G.B.N. & F. by 7 Stepan 5 score 
Side by 3 Stepan 5 4:00 -Rodan, Sky, & 3 guys who can fly vs. Court 2 Lyons 11 4:45 -5 Guys who get their dates drunk... over 
Freudian Slip 1:00--4 Cheerleaders, a jock...vs. Absolut Knott 4:00 -The Staggering Deficits over Snapperlleads The Heat Mizers by 3 · 
4:45 
-St. Ed's Stingers vs. Revenge of the Nerds 2:00--We've never been scored upon vs. Just 4 fun by 9 6:15 -The Big Dudes over Jerry Atric, AI 

5:30 -The old & the injured vs. Charles 3:QO--Ching Ye Wa Peejoe vs. Travelling Sleighbells

4:45 
-Team Marty Moose vs. We Have Armadillos Zhymes, &... I forget by 12 Thompson & 4 guys who just say maybe 


4:00--Just so we can tell... vs. Sieg"freaks" from in our trousers: Double Forfeit · Stepan 6 
Hell 

5:30 -Don't Shoot Skip! over 4 Guys you'd like to 4:00 -Dirty dogs & a good reason... over Fast 6:15 -Hoops not chicks vs. Work it Johnny, work 
Court 3 know & a Hoosier by 10 Eddy & the Technicolor... by 4 it 
1:00--5 funny fickle females...vs. Moo Doo Gurus 6:15 -Team Salva over Coach's Boys by forfeit 4:45 -We can't play but we coach better... over 
Stepan 6 2:00--Jaegermonsters vs. Please don't take us Lyons 12 The Dangerous Heat-ons by 2 
4:00 -We're not cheeseheads vs. Anklebangers seriously
4:00 -What the heck's a meatless cheeseburger over 5:30 -5 Nondescript Guys over Transport 4:45 -Hey!, we could beat Valparaiso vs. Get it 3:00--5 under 5'5" vs. Team £31 Rise & Fall of the... by 5 Phenomena by 8 up & shoot!! 
Court 4 

4:45 -The Brickmason over Store-wreckers & dish­6:15 -The Cheese Farmers over lunch with 
5:30 
-Smell the glove vs. The lima bean is stuck 1:00--Fawn Haii,Jessica Hahn...vs. Give us a dollar pan hands by 14 Claire by 16 6:15 -She's not that good vs. Bad boys of 2:00--Snak pak vs. Jerome & the bouncers 

5:30 
-Anything over He-man & the women haters 


bookstore 3:00--We've got it, put it through vs. 2 RA's. 2 club by 17 
Bookstore 9 Former Pre-Meds... 
6:15 -4 Troopers & the hairless wonder over We 4:00 -Should I the Queen of Love Refuse... vs. Court 5 dribble but Skiko scores by 2 Friday's Games Air check & ground support 
1:00·-If you think we're good...vs. Orange crush 
Stepan 1 Stepan 1 4:45 -So I got my tongue vs. Spaccines 2:00·-Sorry Katie vs. One gin with experience
4:00 -Grqundkeepers at Busch Gardens over The 4:00 -The Good. the bad & the laundry vs. 5:30 -No "I" in Team vs. The Endoplasmic 
3:00--Banana heads vs. Secret service Linoleums: We get... by 8 Skinny Juice Reticulums 
4:45 -The ultimate set of tools over Lifting, beer, 4:45 -Johny Tower, Kitty Dukakis, Ted Bundy... 6:15 -TIAM & the Dyskyic Wonders vs. The 
Sunday"s Games chicks by 3 vs. H this were Nintendo... Products of 3 Generations of Incest SMC-Angela Athletic Facility
5:30 -Mother Goose over Mele Mele Kiki Bobo by 5:30 -Ministers of Pain vs. Beelzebub & 4 other Bookstore 10 
Court 1 15 reasons to say your prayers 4:00 -G-Force vs. Best of the West 
1:00--Teeter & the 4 vs. Violent Femmes 
6:15 -Mookie's Elbows over 5 Guys that go to the 6:15 -She shook me all night long vs. Team 4:45 -Sp. It Milk vs. Acta Sanctorum 2:00--Minnesota minus one vs. 4 dunks & one 
hole with authority... by 10 Saliva 5:30 -Quality over Quantity vs. Aaauugghh Court 2 
Stepan 2 Stepan 2 . 6:15 -Rail & Bail vs. Skynrd 1:00--Duck's revenge vs. Celeste & 4 
4:00 -Hey Elmer, give me your lunch money over 4:00 -The Dead Fish vs. We always lose in the Lyons 11 
2:00--The ND ratio...vs. 4 experienced handlers Pseudo Tofu by 6 first round 4:00 -Jimmy Johnson Fan Club vs. The Rec­
Court 3 

4:45 -Phi we can't slamma jamma over Captive 4:45 -Dr. Ruth's Soldiers of Sex vs. Return of tifiers 1:00--3 girls who've scored...vs. Pantry panthers
Backbones by 6 the Blasphemers: Team God 4:45 -Flaming Caucasians vs. The Exchange 2:00--Dudettes vs. The Booby Trap5:30 -Lotuses over The Bum Rush by 12 5:30 -3168 vs. Rubber Cement 5:30 -Clyde & the Family McGuinness vs. E-2 
Court4 

6:15 -4 Bartenders & Norm over And besides you 6:15 -5 guys on a holiday in Finland' vs. The 
Cats 1:00--Bye vs. Run SMC 
ain't go nothing... by forfeit smilin', laughin', jakin'... 6:15 -Skookum Tohobuss II vs. Derwentos 2:00-· TuMet Police vs. Two words 
played together last spring on Stallones, tournament runner­we play together, the better Notre Dame football coach Lou Chip's Bar, a team that ad­sup during his sophomore and we're going to be." Holtz and associate bm~iness
Men 
vanced to the Final Four. junior years, and I Will Play, I Murphy's rode a balanced at­manager of athletics Mike continued from page 20 They added two Bookstore Won't Play, a final eight team tack into the second round. Bobinski added four hoops 
veterans in John Mundo and last year. Warren played for Mundo hit six-of-seven shots, each. 
depth and experience. Belles, Kevin Warren. Mundo, a law Hahn's Funeral Home's final while Robb had five, Heck four "It was a fun game," said 
Andy Heck and Aaron Robb sntu~nt, has for Leone's eight team last year, a squad and Warren two. Dolan, a member of the 1986 that lost to Chip's. Another name team, Coac­champions, Lee's Ribs. "Our "If we play well together, I h's, advanced with a 21-14 vic­team that we put together just think we could be contenders," tory over L.G.B.N. and F. enjoys playing. We just hope to Mundo said. "We have a lot of Irish basketball graduate as­put in a good showing and not talent, but we haven't played sistant coach Jim Dolan led Co­embarass ourselves." together a lot so far. The more ach's with eight baskets, while Three games went into over­
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---~~~, 
time Thursday. We Can't Play But We Can Coach Better...
BIKE TRIP I edged The 
Dangerous Heat­Ons in a 30-28 shootout. 4 Troopers and the Hairless
SUNDAY, APRIL 16 Europe! I 
Wonder edged We Dribble But
I 

along the lake michigan shore call nva to reserve a spot think warm! 
lf"f···· 
I 
Skiko Scores 23-21, while 
Melancholy got past Next Best Thing to a Bye 23-21. 
This Summer 
In other games, Maureen McFadden lost one of her tour­ney hopes. Maureen McFad­
Your Europe Travel Center1 
1
den's Passion Seekers fell to Lowest airfares to Europe Fighting Kernels by a 21-7. The only chance McFadden has left
Eurail passes, rail information t 
is Maureen McFadden is a VISA assistance I Fabulous Babe, overtime win­ners earlier this week.
Assistance with tours, Individual 
I 

itineraries, hotels, student travel 1 We Would Rather Win 
Games Than Have Friends probably has neither after
For Your Summer Trip to Europe CAII:J 
losing 21-8 at the hands of Jer­
Seven Seas Travel 
I ry's Kids. Skip shot eight times,525 North Michigan Street but Don't Shoot Skip! still
I

South Bend, IN 46601 downed 4 Guys You'd Like To
I 

Know and a Hoosier 21-11. 
~-----~---~~~~~----~-~ 
• 
• Friday -She's Having A Baby 
Saturday -Die Hard 
40 STORIES OF SHEER
• 
ADVENTURE! 
BRUCE WILLIS 
DIE HARD 
. .
~~. -~­
CI19N TWEIIITIETii CENTURY FO~ FILM CORPORATION
• 

Shannon  $239.00  
Amsterdam  .  $245.00  
Franklurt  $245.00  
Paris  $259.00  

Scheduled carriers! Book anyt1me! Abo\le fares V2 Round-lrip from Chicago. Some restrictions apply. On-the-spot railpasses, lnt'l Student I.D., youth hostel passes, work and study abroad
• 
programs. FREE Student Travel Catalog.
KEVIN BACON ELIZABETH McGOVERN 
Show Times 8 & 10:15 pm
i SHE'S HAVING ABABY Place -Engineering Auditorium • • • Price -$2.00 • 
t*************************************************************************~' 
r--1~~------~-­
1 page 16 The Observer Friday, April 14, 1989 I 
I 
' I 
I 
I ' 
Michigan to be next Big Ten offering for women's tennis 

By BARB MORAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team is looking to con­tinue their Big Ten romp as they prepare to face the Uni­versity of Michigan at home to­morrow. 
The Irish women (14-4) are riding high after two big vic­tories over Ohio State and Mic­higan State last weekend, and are looking forward to the up­coming match. 
"I feel very good going into this match," said Notre Dame coach Michele Gelfman. "Our team is playing our best tennis of the year; we've just come off two big wins and we're looking to increase our percentage of Big Ten vic­tories." 
Despite her optimism, Gelfman is still wary about the upcoming Michigan match. 
"Michigan had a slow start at the beginning of this year, but have really picked up steam in the second half of the season," said the coach. "This will be a tough match straight 
NO track team headed to Stanford Invite; will square off with Cardinal, Washington 
By GREG SCHECKENBACH Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's track 
team will travel to Palo Alto, California this weekend to en­joy the sun and fun of the Stan­ford Invitational Track Meet. Instead of working on their · already lacking Indiana tans, 
the team will compete against · 
Stanford and Washington in 
their second outdoor meet of 
the season. 
Currently, the Irish are being 
hampered by injuries to their 
top athletes. Grad student, Dan 
Garrett, who qualified for Na­
tionals last year, will miss the 
meet due to nagging leg injur­
ies. Garrett won the 5000 meter 
run last year at Stanford and 
was expected to place highly 
again this year. 
Long jumper Jeff Smith is 
coming off a painful heel injury 
that he suffered during the in­
door season and is looking to 
compete in his first outdoor 
meet at 100 percent. 
"I jumped well at Geor­
getown, but I was not quite 
ready," stated the sophmore. 
"This week I'll be at 100 per­
cent and hopefully I'll do well." 
Smith, who has the second­
\ 
through-they're very consis­tent on the baseline." 
Notre Dame lost a narrow 5-4 decision to Michigan last year, and the Irish are hoping to cap­ture a victory of a wider mar­gin. 
"It shouldn't be as close a match as last year's," said Gelfman. "We have a definite edge this year since we're on our home courts." 
"Also, the entire team has been preparing for the match all week. They've been working on their consistency, their ser­ving, and especially on being aggressive and charging the net." 
CeCe Cahill, Notre Dame's number-one singles player, also has been preparing for to­morrow's match. Cahill will take on Stacy Berg, who holds the top seed for Michigan. 
"Stacy Berg is coming off some very good wins," said Gelfman. "She's a strong ser­ver and volleyer. CeCe's been working on her game plan all week." 
Cahill will also combine with doubles partner Tracy Barton 
longest leap in Notre Dame his­tory at 25-3, will be trying to defend his title at the Stanford Invitational. Last year, he was victorious with a leap of 23-7, which far outdistanced his op­ponents. 
This is the second year in a row Notre Dame has traveled to the Stanford Invitational. A few weeks ago, the Irish traveled to the East Coast for a meet with Georgetown. A heavy travel schedule seems to please Head Coach Joe Piane. 
"I think it is great for our program and our athletes that we compete all across the country," said Piane. "It also allows us to compete on the na­tional level." 
Co-captain Ron Matkezich will be a heavy favorite this weekend in the 5000 meters. Last year, he qualified for the IC4A Championships with a third place finish. His time of 
14:00.25 is the third-best in Irish history. 
Junior Yan Searcy and Soph­more Richard Culp will com­pete in the 400 meter run and both are expected to fair well. Culp won the race last year while Searcy crossed the finish line third. 



11:30-2 pm Picnic & Volleyball* 4:30-6:30 pm Faculty/Senior Reception (University Club--21/D) 4:00-6:00 Live Band * 
* Cushing Quad 
to face the top ranked Michigan doubles team. Gelfman forsees few problems in the doubles competition. 
"The way they (Cahill and Barton) are playing now, I don't think that they'll have any problems against Mic­higan," said the coach. "Tracy's consistency and CeCe's finesse make them a very versatile team. However, Michigan has switched their doubles teams around since last year, and you always have to be cautious when playing new teams-you have to think that they have the edge." 
Due to Kristy Doran's knee injury, the rest of the doubles teams have been switched around and are adjusting well to their new combinations. 
"They're working through it," said Gelfman. "They just have to get used to talking to each other and working as a team-it will come together as they play together more." 
The Irish women are "ready to play and 'win" according to Gelfman, and will hit the courts Saturday at 11 am. 
The Observer !Trey Reymond 

The Notre Dame women's tennis team, coming off consecutive victories last week against Ohio State and Michigan State, looks to continue its success against Big Ten opponents Saturday when it hosts Michigan. 
LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 
' • I . " I \_ 
,. f · , 'l. I , . . , ;:..-l 
...,_\• fl;. /I~ '
I . ' ·. I ~/ / .. . · -~-\-'t _,-> 
,,~~~--..... ~~~ 
OOff T DIIYI ORUNM OR JIUK WITH All'fOfU WHO OOi \ 
1989 MAZDA J23 GTX HATCH!lACK 

COLLEGE GRADUATE PROGRAM ON NOW! PLUS $400 rebate! 
~BERTLES& 
. ITtiiZDa· 

52203 U.S. 31/33 North 
272-8504-or TOLL FREE 1·800.552·2096 
Open Mon., Tues., Thurs. Evenings til 8 p.m. 
w  
1  
Friday, April 14, 1989  The Observer  page 17  
MCC tournament  SPORTS BRIEFS  

awaits ND tennis 
By KEN TYSIAC Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's ten­nis team will travel to St. Louis to compete for the Midwestern Collegiate Conference champi­onship this weekend. This will be Notre Dame's first appear­ance in the MCC champion­ships since 1986, when the Irish placed second to Oral Roberts, a school which no longer belongs to the MCC. 
This will be second-year Irish coach Bob Bayliss's first Notre Dame team to participate in the MCC championships, which will consist of six singles flights and three doubles flights. The Irish will compete on Friday and Saturday in St. Louis. 
Notre Dame returns from a 
-ten-day layoff this weekend, but Bayliss is far from con­cerned. "We've been going at a frenetic pace since January 20," says Bayliss. "If you look at our schedule, you'll see that we've played almost 25 dual matches this year. We really needed a break." The layoff has helped the Irish recover from injuries and illness. 
"There has been a lot of flu going around lately, and that's hurt us," says Bayliss. "I don't think we've had all of our best players healthy for one match since we came back from Cal­ifornia (March 8)." 
One player who will be healthy for his matches Friday and Saturday is freshman David DiLucia, who plays first singles. DiLucia has won 19 of his last 20 matches. 
"David has been phenomenal this spring," says Bayliss. "He is aggressive on the court and very highly motivated. 
"David and Walter Dolhare (second singles) have carried us lately," continues Bayliss, "and Brian Kalbas has been coming on· strong lately, too. Our top three have been strong all year." 
Bayliss' squad is now enter­ing the home stretch which cul­minates in season-ending home matches against Michigan State, Kalamazoo, and Illinois State. 
"From here on in it's going to be easy," promises Bayliss. "We only have missed one day of classes in April, and our guys are finally getting settled into a more regular schedule." 
On the schedule this weekend in St. Louis are teams from Detroit, Loyola, Butler, St. Louis, Evansville, and Xavier. Bayliss says the teams from Xavier and Evansville are the teams to watch in the meet along with his own Notre Dame squad. He is also concerned with the playing conditions. 
"It's been kind of cold outside here at Notre Dame, so our team has been practicing in­doors," says Bayliss. "The tournament, on the other hand, will be played outside, so we will have to adjust to conditions to be successful." 
To be 
FRANK, 

Chris, Have a Happy Birthday! Love, Maura and Todd 
STUDENTS SAVE 
10% 
AND LarS OF TIME­Let us pack and ship your belongings back home for the summer, or to wherever your new career leads vo~! 
NOTHING IS TOO LARGE OR TOO SMALL! 
==BDXES/?Ll/5== 
SHIPPiNG + PACKING + CRATING 
l\fOV!NG & STORAGE BOXES I GIFT WRAPPING SERVICE PACKING MATERIALS I GIFT BOXES & BAGS MAILING TUBES I OFFICE SUPPLIES 
PLEASE PRESENT THIS 
COUPON AT THE TIME OF 
PURCHASE OR SHIPPING 
277-5555 
Between T.J. Maxx and Venture 
M-F 9AM·7PM SAT 10AM-5:30P~' SUN NOON-5:30PM 

The Blue-Gold Game will be held Saturday, April22, at 1:30 p.m. in the stadium. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be admitted upon presentation of an ID card at gates 15 and 16. Spouses and children must have a ticket. General admission tickets for the public are available from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Saturday at gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. Adult tickets are $3 in advance and $4 game day. Youth tickets are $1.50 in advance and $2 the day of the game. -The Observer 
Irish Spring Run will be Saturday, April 15, at 4 p.m. Sign up in the NVA Office or call 239-6100. -The Observer 
MudVolleyballworkersandscorekeepers are needed. Call Ed Brooks at x3271 for more information. -The Observer 
The Bengal Bouts Banquet will be held for all boxers Wednesday, April 19, at 5:30p.m., at St. Hedwig's Parish. Call Mike at x3386 for more information. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer of­fices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center 'before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Stewart's 65 leads Heritage field 
Associated Press 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND, S.C.--Payne Stewart compiled a bogey-free 65 Thursday for a share of the first-round lead in the $800,000 Heritage Classic. 
Stewart was tied with Kenny Perry, who birdied three straight holes in one stretch and got a share of the top spot wih a 12-foot birdie putt on the 18th hole. 
"Probably the best competi­tive round I've played in my three years on the tour,'' Perry said. 
But that wasn't enough to completely shake Nick Faldo of England. 
"It was good that I could go out and get on with it," Faldo said after a 3-under-par 68 in his first round since winning the Masters last weekend. 
"The sooner you get used to carrying that title, the better," said Faldo, who needed only 23 putts on the tiny greens at the Harbour Town Golf Links. 
That, however, was five more than record-matching 18 putts needed by Kenny Knox in a round of 69. 
Knox chipped in three times and had 12 one-putt greens as he tied the PGA tour record for fewest putts in a round, set by Sam Trahan in the 1979 Philadelphia Classic and equalled by Mike McGee at Memphis in 1987. 
Australian Greg Norman, meanwhile, took issue with the condition of the course he called "one of my top five favorites in the world." 
"Condition-wise, it's one of the poorest prepared we play on the tour,'' Norman said after scrambling to a 77. 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer jMt advertising. jMt 
~ Call 239-6900 ~ 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents The Power and the Glory by Dennis Cannan and Pierre Bost Adapted from the novel by Graham Greene 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
Setting and Lighting designed by Willard Neuert Costumes designed by Richard E. Donnelly 
Washington Hall 

Wednesday, April19-8:10pm Thursday, April20-8:10pm Friday, April21 -8:10pm Saturday, April22-8:10pm Sunday, April23-3:10pm 
Main Floor $6, Balcony $5 *Students1Senior Citizens $4 *(Wed., Thurs., Sun. only) 
Tickets are available at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office Weekdays, 12:15pm to 6pm 
MasterCard/Visa orders call239-5957 
''There was a lot of mud in some fairways and some of the greens had no grass on them," the defending champion said. 
But Norman declined to use that as an excuse for his high score, which put him in danger of missing the cut Friday when the field is reduced to the low 70 scorers for the final two rounds. 
Bob Eastwood and Rocco Mediate were tied for third at 
67. John Huston tied Faldo with a 68. 
Lee Trevino shot 72 despite a double bogey on the 17th hole, and Scott Hoch, the playoff loser at Augusta, struggled to a 78. 
U.S. open champion Curtis Strange shot 74 and Tom Wat­son, twice a winner of this title, had a 76 that included 41 on the back nine. 
designated-hitter platoon of Frank Jacobs and Jason Mar­tinez. Jacobs came down with the flu and an eye infection Wedensday and is questionable for Dayton, while Martinez already was sidelined with a sprained thumb. Mike Rotkis and Paul Lange each had a hit against Butler as the desig­nated hitters. 

More people have survived cancer than now live in the City of Los Angeles. 
We are winning. 
AMERICAN 
< CANCER
~ 
, SOCIElY" 
Rocco's Hair Styling 

5311f.Michigan St. Phone 233-4957 

Bas.eball 
continued from page 20 
Bultler with three hits and three runs scored in the doubleheader. 
But the bullpen is stripped down heading into this weekend's action at Dayton. Tony Livorsi, the other stop­
per, was used as a starter in 
Wednesday's first game, going 
the distance for a six-hit 
shutout. 
"Mee came through in the clutch," said Irish coach Pat Murphy. "With Livorsi gning the complete game, we'll rely on (first baseman Joe) Binkiewicz out of the bullpen. 
The Irish have also lost their 
page 18 The Observer Friday, April 14, 1989 
Texas continues winning ways in 6-1 win over Detroit 

MILWAUKEE--Julio Franco drove in four runs for the second straight game and Bobby Witt scattered seven hits over eight innings as Texas beat Milwaukee 6-1 Thursday night for its fifth straight victory and seventh in eight games this season. 
Witt, 1-0, struck out eight and walked two as the Brewers continued to struggle at the plate. 
Leading 2-1, Witt walked two in the eighth and yielded a single to Robin Yount, loading the bases. But Witt got Terry Francona to hit into a double play on a 3-1 pitch to end the threat. Jeff Russell got the last three outs for the Rangers. 
Milwaukee, batting .210 as a team, had been held to one hit for eight innings Wednesday by Nolan Ryan in an 8-1 defeat. 
Tigers 3, Twins 0 

DETROIT--Jeff Robinson pitched a four-hitter, and an error by shortstop Greg Gagne allowed two Detroit runs as the Tigers beat Minnesota 3-0 Thursday, snapping a 12-game losing streak against the Twins. 
Robinson, 1-0, whose 1988 season was cut short with a 13-6 record because of circulation prob­lems in his right hand, struck out seven and walked four. He worked out of a bases-loaded jam in the first inning by striking out Gary Gaetti and Randy Bush. 
Shane Rawley, 1-1, gave up two Detroit runs on four hits in the five innings he worked for the Twins. 
Pirates 4, Mets 2 

PITTSBURGH--John Smiley took a one-hit shutout into the ninth inning, getting one inning of relief help from Jeff Robinson, as the Pit­tsburgh Pirates beat the New York Mets and Ron Darling 4-2 Thursday. 
Bobby Bonilla scored twice and drove in a run, and Mike Lavalliere had a two-run single in the eighth inning. 
Smiley, 1-1, improved to 5-1 lifetime against the Mets by striking out four and walking three, while the Pirates finally solved Darling, 0-2, who had beaten them six straight. 
Red Sox 9, Indians 1 

BOSTON--Roger Clemens allowed only three singles and struck out eight in seven innings Thursday, leading the Boston Red Sox to a '9-1 victory over the Cleveland Indians. 
Wade Boggs had three hits and three RBis, while Marty Barrett had three doubles and Dwight Evans homered in a 15-hit attack against four Cleveland pitchers. 
Clemens, 1-0 after two no-decision starts on the road, left with Boston ahead 9-1 at the end of seven. Mike Smithson pitched the last two in­nings. 
Braves 4, Padres 1 
SAN DIEGO--Derek Lilliquist allowed three 
hits over 7 1-3 innings in in his major league 
debut, leading the the Atlanta Braves past the 
San Diego 4-1 Thursday. 
Lilliquist, a first-round draft pick in 1987 from 
the University of Georgia, allowed a one-out 
single by Mark Parent in the second inning, a 
one-out triple by Bip Roberts in the third and 
then retired 15 batters in order. 
Luis Salazar homered in the eighth, San 
Diego's first run in 20 innings, and Joe Boever 
came in and finished with two-hit relief for his 
third save. 

Lilliquist struck out five and walked two, both 
in the first inning. 
The loser was Walt Terrell, 0-2. 
Athletics 5, Angels 0 
ANAHEIM, CALIF.--California's Jim Abbott improved on his shaky major league debut, but opposing pitcher Mike Moore allowed no runs and three hits in eight innings Thursday as the Oakland Athletics beat the Angels 5-0. 
Abbott, who made his pro debut with a 4 2-3 inning stint in a 7-0 loss to Seattle last Saturday night, pitched six innings against Oakland. Again getting no hitting support, Abbott allowed four runs, two unearned, and nine hits. He walked two and struck out four. 
Abbott was relieved by Dan Petry to start the seventh after he allowed three runs in the sixth. 
Moore, 1-1, walked one and struck out seven before he was relieved by Dennis Eckersley at the start of the ninth inning. Moore, who was 66-96 in seven seasons with Seattle, signed as a free agent with Oakland for $3.95 million over three years. 
.Astros 4, Dodgers 2 
LOS ANGELES--Rafael Ramirez grounded a one-out single to left field in the 15th. inning to score Ken Caminiti with the go-ahead run as the Houston Astros beat Los Angeles 4-2 Thursday in the Dodgers' home opener. 
Caminiti opened the 15th with a walk off Ray Searage, 0-1, the fourth Los Angeles pitcher. Reliever Bob Forsch, 1-0, then bunted. 
First baseman Eddie Murray's throw to second to force Caminiti went into center field for an error, and one out later, Ramirez singled. 
Tim Crews replaced Sear age and Billy Hatcher hit his first pitch for a run-scoring double down the left-field line, making it 4-2. 
Forsch, the fifth Houston pitcher, shut out the Dodgers on one hit over the final four innings. 

Disc Jockey Applications 
r-----------,
I • Buy 4* sessions atthe regular I 

available in the Office of
I price and get 4 FREE • Buy 5 I 1 and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 and 1 

Student Activities
1 Get 6 FREE
L---------___JGET THE IDEA 7 1 

AP Photo Rafael Palmeiro and the Texas Rangers have taken the American League West by storm this season, posting a league-leading 7-1 record. Last night, the Rangers defeated the Detroit Tigers 6-1 . 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer 
• advertising. ­~ Call 239-6900 ~ 
"Terrific. Tremendously gripping and compeUing. More exciting than 'LA BAMBA! Olmos gives a wonderful performance!' 
I IlL t\r11ll "I \\\\\II 1\ 
I "Stand up and cheer for a movie with heart. It's the 'ROCKY' of the classroom." -Pal C'ulltn'. WWOR-TV "Inspiring. Magnificent performance by Olmos and it simultaneously brings on tears and a sense of triumph. A 9+." Ci.tl) h<.~n~hn. KA~C'-TV "Enormously inspiring and very rewarding. Edward Olmos gives the first great performance of the year." kilt"·~ l.~nn' ··s~J-.AK PN.FVIEWS. EDWARD JAMES OLMOS • LOU DIAMOND PHILLIPS Standand Deliver WARNER BROS '·"~"~'' •· AMERICAN PLAYHOUSE THEATRICAL• -• MENENDEZ! MUSCA• OLMOS'·,, .. ·· "STAND AND DELIVER" EDWARD JAMES OLMOS LOU DIAMOND PHILLIPS ROSANA DESOTO ANDY GARCIA ~ ..,.,,,CRAIG SAFAN , •• , ..., '""•""' LINDSAY LAW ~>• .. , .. r. RAMON MENENDEZ & TOM MUSCA '•oo..<O!'db. TOM MUSCA D·H•,.,.,o, RAMON MENENDEZ ~~~~~~~ "'"''~-::~:::::·.,::,~  
"NOTRE Notre .,DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE Cinematheque  
TONIGHT AT THE SNITE 7:30, 9:30  


+
American 
Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 
FREE 
TANNING 

I I I ALUMNI "'""""~'--."'' 
~CLUB 
'89-'90 

Mishawaka Indian Ridge Plaza (Next to Venture) Grape Rd. 277-7946 

315 LaFortune. 
Hours: Daily 9-8 Sat. 9-6 Sun. 11-5 

*Applications due April 21st 
·~m~~~~~~~.e::9~1~~~~~­
~----~---­
~----~---~---------------~--­
Friday, April 14, 1989 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS EVENTS 
7:30-8 a.m. Open meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous. 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. Communication and Theatre film "Stand and Deliver," Annenberg Auditorium. 
SATURDAY, APRIL 15 11 a.m. ND Women's Tennis vs. Michigan, Courtney Courts. 
1 p.m. ND Women's Softball vs. College of Lake County. 
SUNDAY, APRIL 16 __ Noon Pow Wow with Native American Student Organization, Stepan Center. 
8 p.m. ND Department of Music Newberry Consort Guest Ensemble, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
3:30 p.m. ND Dept of Philosophy Prospectives Series in Phi­losophy; the Place of Language: "Language and Society," by Charles Taylor, McGill University, Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
7 p.m. ND Dept of Black Studies and Dept of Anthropology lecture, "Africa Revisited" by Papa Susso, Gambian Oral Historian. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
SUNDAY 7:30 p.m. "An Archeological Tour of St. Patrick's Ireland," by Ronald Hicks, Ball State Univ., Galvin Life Science Auditorium. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
3-Cheese Croissant Chicken Burritos Fried Clams Cheese Omelette Veal Parmigiana Batter Fried Perch Choc. Chip Pancakes Deli Bar 
COMICS 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Kind of almanac 
28 Beliefs1 Ordered 31 Peak in Colo. 
sWashed out 

10 Fad 32 Its capital is Katmandu
14 Change for a fiver 34 Tire part 15 Verona's river 36 Short distance 16 World's most 38 Carnegie was prolific author? one 17 Writer Claude 
40 Bristle 41 Magnitudes18 Talking at 43 Prongs

tedious length 45 Darts-game
20 Iterates locale

22 The Pointer Sisters, e.g. 46 Jai-alai baskets 
23 Regale 48 Steep slopes 
24 Building so"-Lin," addition Scottish ballad 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


51 "One word in your-plague and madness!": Shak. 
52 Jaundice 56 Torments 59 Engage in a 
dorm prank 61 Okla. Indian 62 Describing 
Tonto's pal 63 Tidal bore 64 Wheeler or Lahr 65 Washstand item 66 Item less puis­
sant than a pen 67 Accretes 
DOWN 1 Male guinea pig 2 Boleyn 3 Cold storage 4 Think highly of s Stumbled 6 Hubbubs 7 Hubbub 8 Roe 9 More moist, as flowers at dawn 10 Ironers 11 Wave. in a mer 
shaker 13 Terminates 19Ria 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
I'VE BEEt{ l\1\t.IKING. S\l~E I G~W UP To BE Ot{t ot ~£ VORLDS GR~t>.lt.SI Mt.l-l Cf f>.lL liME. SUP\'05£ M'( N~M£ Will. Bt. M~ \KSPIRA\\0!11 \t:l 1-\UMA.t-.1\T'( !=OR EO\'IS 
1t) Cot<\E! 
,. 
52 One of the Skerries 53 Grub 54 Timbre ss Josh Billings's real surname 56 Mister. in Munich 57 Information 58 Matched pairs 60 Part of the psyche 
21 Egyptian sun disk 
25 Stir 
26Athenian 27 What the leopard can't alter 
28 Chip off the old block? 29 Firmly embedded 30-andtook notice 

33 Violinist Kava­fian 
35 Flounders 
37 Gadfly 
39 Changed one's location at the theater 
42 Originate 
44 Cicatrix 
47 Diverts 
49 Spanish weight 
unit 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

BILL WATTERSON 
WAAi ~ 1\'ID\G\'1\T'( 1\-\\S  M'( L\KEL'f  WOJLD'fOU  
Bf>..\\-1 \'5!  IS l\1\S S\l\l~TIO\'\  "\STORICA\.  RA\\\ER 1ll.E'i  
~Rl\1'1 or oot. or 1\\£.  5\GNW\CAtKE  SA.Itl 'iOUR  
GRg.,"ffiS\ MW ~ TMt. ?.~..:>  A.\.1..  \S />. TtRR\9\.t. &IRD£~.  0\\L'i)\--\000 WA.s 0\R\'1  
AN.O S\v\£LL'( ?  

Tti~  Student Union Board Presents A NIGHT OF THE BLUES featuring 1\1 ~~~ 12~V()l2T lN CONCERT Sat. APril 15 1O:OOPM at Theodore·s  

Sports
page 20 Friday, April 14, 1989 
More Bookstore action to begin this weekend Women's tournament tips Experience off at Saint Mary's Saturday key for men 
By MOLLY MAHONEY ous largest, and Saturday will By GREG GUFFEY Sports Writer begin the elimination process Assistant Sports Editor for 38 of these teams. 
If Sigmund Freud were alive Saint Mary's College will be If experience is the key to today, he would go crazy trying the site for the early rounds of success in Bookstore Basket­to analyze the origins of many the tournament, which will ball, Murphy's Bar could have of this year's women's begin tomorrow at 1 pm. a very successful tourney this bookstore basketball teams. Nancy Rodrique has had the spring. 
Even amateur psychologists task of organizing the women's Murphy's routed Iggy Pop at have to wonder what kind of tournament, which must vie for the Buzzer 21-8 Thursday as the social lives are led by the court space with the hundreds first round of action neared players on teams like The Bal­of teams participating in men's completion in Bookstore Bas­lhandlers and We've Never bookstore action, and has been ketball XVIII. The winners Been Scored Upon. the final arbiter in the seeding were never tested in the vic­
But even if they represent of the teams. tory. either ends of the spectrum of "Of the 83 teams, six teams "We played all right," said innuendos, only their play on look very, very good," said Steve Belles, who scored six the court will decide which Rodrique, "and there are many hoops for Murphy's. "We teams will survive the prelim­good athletes playing this year. pretty much had an easy day. inary round of the tournament So, I'm sure that by the time it It's hard to tell in the first game for further analysis. gets down to the Final 16, how good you are." 
A record 83 teams will par­you're going to see quite a few The keys to Murphy's are ticipate in this year's tourna­
see WOMEN I page 14 see MEN I page 15 
ment, 17 more than the previ­
~-~~·: 

tl Baseball team sweeps Butler in doubleheader 
By PETE GEGEN lowing third baseman Corey make the score 11-2. Sports Writer Mee and left fielder Craig Brian Piotrowicz got the win Counsell to reach base. Peltier in the second game. The Bul­
The Notre Dame baseball sent both unearned runs home ldogs scored four runs off Irish team pushed its winning streak with a drive to the right­reliever Tom Gulka in the last to eight games with a centerfield fence. inning. doubleheader sweep of Butler Pitcher Mike Passilla gave Right fielder James Sass kept 5-1 and 11-6 at Jake Kline Field up one unearned Butler run in pace with Peltier in the run­Thursday afternoon. the sixth, but Irish catcher Ed production department, 
Center fielder Dan Peltier Lund answered with the team's driving home three runners to led the way against the Bul­third homer of the game in the give him a team-leading 35 ldogs, collecting his first col­bottom half. REI's on the season. Peltier's legiate two-homerun day and With the help of the Irish total stands at 34. driving in six runs to push the defense, Passilla completed his The Irish won despite the ab­




Irish record to 26-6. fourth win of the season, allow­sense of five players, four of "I really feel good at the ing just four hits and striking whom came down with injuries plate," said Peltier, who also out three. in Wednesday afternoon's I collected his 14th double of the The start of the second game sweep of Illinois-Chicago, 5-0 
season. was a nightmare for Butler. and 6-3. 
That double came in a criti­ Bulldog starter Doug Hedrick  Third baseman Mike Coss is  
cal three-run fifth inning of the  lasted only one-thrid of an in­ sidelined with a sprained ankle  
first game. With Notre Dame  ning, giving up six runs, includ­ and bullpen stopper Mike Cof­ 
ahead 1-0, first baseman Joe  ing two on balks, three hits and  fey is out indefinitely with  a  
Binkiewicz led off the inning  five walks.  forearm  injury  suffered  in  
The Observer I Scott McCann  with his first collegiate home run over the left-centerfield  Notre Dame used aggressive baserunning to push single  Wednesday's Corey Mee,  second game. Coss's replace­ 
The  Notre  Dame  baseball  team  swept  Butler  in  a  doubleheader  fence.  Then  Butler  second  tallies  across  in  the  second,  ment,  came  through against  
Thursday at Jake Kline Field. The Irish, now 24-6 on the season, take  baseman  Tom  Ackerman  fourth and fifth  innings,  and  
on Dayton Saturday in yet another doubleheader.  bobbled two ground balls, al­ added two more in the sixth to  see BASEBALL I page 17  

Baseball season fools experts in early going 
It isn't even tax day and Cub fans are gloating, Cincinnati is reeling, the Red Sox are making trou­ble, the White Sox have lost Carlton Fisk to the disabled list, and the Yankees are whining (not win­ning, although the two sound alike). 
Nine games into the season and, to hear some people talk, the division titles have already been decided... 
Cub, Ranger, Indian and Red fans wish. 
The White Sox and Cubs are a combined 11-6, the best combined winning percentage in a long time. The Sox have yet to play at home, the Cubs have yet to play on the road. Wrigley Field has endured rain, snow, sleet and wind chills in single digits, proving that the Cubs adjusted from Mesa in April to Christmas in April rather well. 
Someone named Domingo Ramos is hitting .429 for the Cubs, old anti-hero Mitch Webster is at .440 and some pitchers no one's heard of are taking the heat off of Rick Sutcliffe, who has responded by going 2-0 and hitting .667. 
Being knowledgable fans, the Cub loyal are ex­cited, but not too excited, knowing that when the weather heats up, the rest of the National League will, too. 

Theresa Kelly 
Sports Editor 
The Sox, as usual, are battling the DL with Fisk going on with a bruised right hand Monday. That's the same hand that kept him out of 70 games last season, and that, of course, is why the Sox didn't win the World Series last year. Or get in it. Or even win their division. Or even come close. 
Speaking of old guys, Texas pitcher Nolan Ryan pitched a near-no-hitter at the Milwaukee Brewers, striking out 15 before leaving after giving up a hit to Terry Francona in the eighth inning. The 42-year old Ryan keeps adding to his major-league record of 4,798. Ryan was looking for his sixth career no­hitter. His Rangers are off to the best start in baseball at 8-1 going into Thursday's game at Detroit. 
At Detroit? Didn't they once decide to play in­doors or in warm places in April as much as pos­sible? The Cubs, Reds, and Yankees have all played at least five games on their cold home fields. 
Those Yankees, to the joy of many, are off to a rousing 2-7 start, winning Wednesday for the first time since their opener. Owning up to a 1-5 record at home, new manager Dallas Green has already felt the pressure to win in the Big Apple, holding team meetings and listening to the George Steinbrenner threats that are to be expected. With 152 games to go, the Yanks have got to make a move now. 
Pete Rose, aka G-1, has been accused of the serious offenses of gambling, womanizing and hanging out with bodybuilders. Pete Rose was one of the most disliked players in baseball even before all this mess came up, but nothing can overshadow his accomplishments on the field. Baseball has al­ways been harsh in its treatment of gamblers, as it has a right to be, especially when a player, manager or umpire is accused of gambling on baseball. But you have to admit that Rose, despite his alleged infractions, was and is a great baseball man. 
Baseball is back. Pay your taxes and join in on the hot pennant races. The Cubs and Phillies are tied at the top, playing each other in an all­important series that could decide the division title, with just five months to go in the season. 



