
VOL. XXIII NO.2 WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S ,~
·­
Pleas for peace arise in drug war 

with drug traffickers; who are blamed for the assassination August 18 of Sen. Luis Carlos Galan, a leading presidential candidate. The slaying prompted an unprecedented crackdown on drug trafficking. 
Colombia's police intelligence chief said Tuesday that Abraham Majuat, identified as a top financial man for drug dealers, was implicated in Galan's death. Gen. Manuel Maza Marquez would not elaborate, and no charges were filed against Majuat, who was arrested Monday at a ranch near Medellin. Authorities also seized 4 1/2 tons of cocaine there. 
Bombs blew up at six state liquor stores Tuesday in Medellin. The shops are a 
see DRUG I page 5 

Associated Press 
BOGOTA, Colombia--The father of three reputed drug barons appealed for the government to end its fierce war on drugs and negotiate a peace, but six more bombs exploded Tuesday in the cocaine trafficking center of Medellin. 
"Let there be dialogue, let there be peace. Let's have forgiveness, let's carry out a kind of erasing and (start with 
a) clean slate," Fabio Ochoa Restrepo said in an open letter to President Virgilio Barco. The letter was published Tuesday in a Bogota newspaper. 
In Washington, Justice Minister Monica de Greiff reiterated the Barco gov­ernment's refusal to negotiate 
Felonious fake federal narcotics agents nabbed by police 
Associated Press 
MERRILLVILLE, Ind. --A Merrillville couple is accused of profiting on the war against drugs by posing as corrupt federal narcotics agents who accept bribes from the targets of their bogus investigations, officials said. 
Frank Gonzalez, 43, and Lori Cruz, 28, were charged Monday and were being held at the Metropolitan Correctional bogus drug case disappear. Center in Chicago pending a "It was a bold move on the bond hearing Wednesday in defendants' part," said John 
U.S. District Court in Hoehner, assistant U.S. Hammond. attorney. "Apparently it was 
Police arrested the pair rooted in their mistaken belief Friday night on charges of there are people, potential impersonating U.S. Drug victims who wouldn't have the Enforcement Administration courage to report their illegal (DEA) informants about to activity. In this particular implicate a Merrillville man in circumstance, they made a drug charges. They allegedly mistake." extorted a $1,500 bribe from Merrillville Police Chief Jerry the man's father to make the McCory said Monday that the 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS--Indiana Bell Telephone Co. and the union representing 4,200 striking workers announced a tentative agreement on a new, three-year contract Tuesday evening. 
The contract includes basic wage increases, improved pensions, new family care features and profit sharing, a spokesman for the company said. 
Frederic Hunn, vice president 
of  human  resources  and  
corporate  development  for  
Indiana  Bell,  called  the  

agreement fair, progressive and innovative. 
"This agreement addresses the needs of our individual employees and helps position the company to compete vigorously over the next several years," he said. 
The agreement also includes a training program to address the career needs of individual employees, Hunn said, adding that further details of the agreement would be released after the company and union have had a chance to share the information with employees. 
Indiana Bell, which became the fourth of the five Ameritech telephone systems that went on strike Aug. 13, to reach victim called him. "The individual felt it wasn't right for federal people to be taking money to fix cases. There are some good, honest people out there and this proves it," McCory said. 

McCory said the defendants told the victim they needed $2,000 to pay off the U.S. Attorney's office. The father paid $1,500 to the defendants Friday night while police watched, McCory said. 
Hoehner and McCory said neither defendant has any connection with federal drug investigators. 
McCory said investigations by federal, county and local police indicate the defendants victimized at least two other families in Merrillville and Gary and tried to extort $2,500 in one case. 
"We are certain there are others," McCory said. 
Indiana Bell strikers reach tentative agreement on contract 
agreement with the CWA. Michigan Bell is the only Ameritech subsidary without a tentative contract and CWA of­ficials said all 3 7,000 union employees would remain off the job until a settlement is reached in all five states. 
Michigan Bell and bargainers for its 12,800 striking telephone workers were holding informal talks Tuesday, spokespersons for the utility and CWA said. 
"We will continue operating with management and supervisory personnel until our regular employees return and we anticipate that will be soon," said Estel Gibson, media information manager for Indiana Bell. 
The agreement came hours after Bell officials announced that talks had been suspended while the union prepared its response to the company's latest contract proposal. 
Both sides had talked until late Sunday night and were quoted as saying a settlement appeared near. But, on Monday, Indiana Bell claimed the union called their chief negotiator with heightened demands that took negotiations in a new direction. 
Meanwhile, Indiana Bell managers are struggling to keep up with a high volume of telephone trouble calls due to heavy rains during the past week. 
Bell was planning to recruit retired managers with installation and maintenance experience to supplement the management force doing repair work now, Gibson said. 
More than 400 managers worked both Saturday and Sunday to clear more than 3,400 cases of telephone trouble before Monday morning, Gibson said. 
"In order to not get hopelessly behind on repair volume, we feel the need to take some steps to take care of the problem," he said. 
"It looked on Monday and over the weekend like sometime this week we'd have our regular folks on the job, but now we're not so sure," he said. 
Illinois Bell agreed to a tentative contract with strikers Monday, following tentative settlements during the weekend at Ameritech's systems in Ohio and Wisconsin. 
Strikes began Aug. 6 ~t three other "Baby Bell" regional telephone companies formed after the 1984 breakup of AT&T. Nationally, the strikes affected 200,000 workers in 20 states. 
~pa~g~e~2________________________________________________T~h~e~O~b~se~~~e~r~______________________________ Wednesday, August30, 1989 
WORLD BRIEFS 

An Israeli reserve officer linked to fighter training 
programs for hirelings of Colombian drug lords was_ warl?e~. by Israeli government officials six mont~s ago to stop his acti_vitles, Israeli radio said Tuesday. The Miami Herald and the Washmgton Post, quoting a confidential report by Colombi~n. security forc~s, reported that at least five _Israeli and 11_ British_ mercenaries helped train teams of assassms fo~ Col?mb1~n cocame tr~fficke_rs and their right-wing allies. Israeli radio said Lt. Col. Yair Klem earned about $800,000 for his work in Colombia, including pro­viding arms and equipment to the men he was trainin~. Police in­vestigators questioned two more reserve officers 1~ the _c~se Tuesday and said others with possible links to Colombian trammg would be called. 
The Security Council of the United Nations unani­mously adopted a resolution Tuesday criticizing South Africa for failing to fully cooperate with U.N. monitors overseeing the world body's independence plan for Namibia. South Africa insists it is complying with the one-year U.N. plan to end its 74-year rule of Namibia. The resolution demand the complete disbandment of a notorious paramilitary police unit called Koevoet and demand all parties comply strictly with the U.N. plan, "especially South Africa." Tuesday's vote follows two weeks of speeches by about 40 nations complaining South Africa is trying to rig the November election against the South-West African People's Organization, the guerrilla-backed movement favored to form an independent gov­ernment. 
Declaring that Bulgaria's Turkish minority was trapped in a "tragic situation" of human rights violations, the Bush ad­ministration announced Tuesday it had recalled the American ambassador to the East European country and joined NATO allies in condemning Bulgaria. A strong statement issued at the State Department followed what a U.S. official said was a recent wors­ening of the situation and an inability by Turkey to absorb many more than the 311,000 ethnic Turks who have taken refuge in the country. About 1 million people of Turkish extraction live in Bulgaria where, according to the State Departm_ent, they are sys­tematically denied the right to speak the Turkish language and practice Turkish culture. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 

Voters streamed to the polls to fill the late Claud Pepper's Congressional seat from Miami in an ethnically divisive race be­tween a Brooklyn-born Democrat and a Republican hoping to be­come the first Cuban-American elected to Congress. Democrat Gerald Richman, in his· first run for elective office, faced GOP State Sen. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen in the election made necessary by Pepper's death May 30. Pepper, a Democrat, had held ~he seat since its inception 27 years ago. With seven of 146 precmcts re­porting, Richman had 761 votes, or 53.9 percent, to 650 votes, or 
46.0 percent, for Ros-Lehtinen. Pepper's seat is one of five open­ings in the U.S. House. The others were caused by the resigna­tions of former-Speaker Jim Wright, D-Tex., and former­Democratic Whip Tony Coelho, D-Calif., and the deaths of Mickey Leland, D-Tex., and Larkin Smith, R-Miss., in plane crashes. 
American Airlines will add two new commuter flights from its Nashville hub --to South Bend, Ind., and Montgomery, Ala. -­with the addition of two airplanes to its American Eagle fleet, the company announced Tuesday. The flights are scheduled to begin by week's end. 
Despite the scandal enveloping the generic drug in­dustry, consumer advocates and physicians on Tuesday reaf­firmed their confidence in lower-priced clones of brand-name medicines. "At the present time, there's no evidence that any generic drugs out there in the pharmacies lack safety or effective­ness," said Dr. Sidney Wolfe, a physician and head of the Public Citizen Heath Research Group. Although disclosures of fraud and corruption in the Food and Drug Administration's generic drug division have tainted the agency's reputation and cast doubts about the industry, many say concerns about the safety of generic drugs are overblown. 
INDIANA BRIEFS 

A charge of attempted rape against an Anderson man was dropped Tuesday after his attorney motioned for a physical exam­ination to determine the sex of the victim. Jeffery Bernard Jones, 29, has been held in the Madison County jail on $100,000 bond on multiple charges. Jones questioned the gender of the alleged vic­tim after reportedly being told the alleged victim wasn't a woman. Defense attorney John Walsh claimed the law requires an attack be made against a member of the opposite sex for a rape to take place and asked that court proceedings against Jones be delayed until a physical examination is completed on the alleged victim. The Bureau of Motor Vehicles indicated the person involved had an M on a driver's licence before 1985 in Ohio, indicating a male, but an F on the new license, indicating a female. "We dismissed the attempted rape charge because we did not want the victim to have to submit to a physical examination, " the county prosecutor said. 
WEATHER 

Partly sunny 

Partly sunny and mild today, with a high around 81. 
Information complied from Observer wires and Observer staff reports. 
Nostalgia craze could become ugly 

This summer marked the return of many of the most successful rock stars of the past 25 years. Ringo Starr and his all-Starr band band are touring, as well as such mega-groups as The Who and the Rolling Stones. The Bee Gees are on the road again, (Hell must have frozen over) bringing back the days of pulsating dance floors and mirror-covered disco glitter balls suspended from the ceiling. Even Donny Osmond is back in the Top 40, turning in his squeaky clean image in order to become a "Soldier of Love." 
Why are there so many comebacks? I've fi­nally decided that it must be the nostalgia craze that is sweeping the nation. It seems as if every commercial jingle has been lifted from Billboards Top 20 of 1968, and a lot of TV shows and movies are geared towards the baby boomers who blossomed during the age of flower power and free love. 
Since we are a nation in love with our past, it only seems logical that '60s nostalgia of the '80s will turn into the '70s nostalgia of the '90s. Consider the possibilities--if The Who and the Stones are touring now, just think about what groups could be coming to a stadium near you in the next five to ten years: 
BAY CITY ROLLERS: Remember S-A-T -U-R­D-A-Y NIGHT? These lovely lads were one of the '70s biggest flashes in the pan. Their eight­track cassettes may be the stuff garage sales are made of, but they are sure to be collector's items once the band regains its long-lost popu­larity. 
THE CASSIDY BROTHERS: David ("The Partridge Family") and Shaun ("The Hardy Boys") might pair up for a reunion tour. Having read my fair share of "Hardy Boys" books as a kid, I never came across any pas­sages in which Joe Hardy had to wear a white polyester leisure suit and sing "Da Doo Ron Ron" in order to catch a diamond thief, but I admire the artistic license the producers of the show exercised. Maybe red-haired Danny Partridge could play the guitar for the Cassidy 
FINTEREST 
The Notre Dame Cycling Club is look­ing for members. Call Darren Buck, 283-3472, for more info. 
The N.D. Martial Arts Institute will meet Friday, Sept. 1 in Room 219 of the Rockne Memorial. All returning members should attend. 
WVFI shift picks will be today at 5 p.m. in the studios. All returning DJ's must attend or call Tim at 283-1204. 

'My own Village People album was­lost, tragically, in a flood a couple of years ago.' Robyn Simmons 

Assistant Accent Editor 
brother reunion tour. 
JUHN UhNVhH: I believe John"s last public 
appearance was on "A Muppets' Christmas" a few years ago, so he'd probably be more than happy to accept any offer to be on the road 
again as opposed to talking to some guy's hand with a frog puppet attached to it. He just might bring the house down singing "Thank God I'm a Country Boy." 
VILLAGE PEOPLE: I saved the best for last. My own Village People album was lost, tragi­cally, in a flood a couple of years ago along with my Shaun Cassidy album. None of the Village People albums are out on CD (to my shock) but a reunion tour could spark a renewed interest in the group and have a new generation of pre­teens bopping to "Macho Man," "YMCA" and "In the Navy." 
I really don't mind the fact that there are so many comeback concerts this year; I got tickets. for the Paul McCartney concert myself. But I hope that the aging baby boomers aren't disap­pointed when they find out that no one--rock stars included--can remain frozen in time, and sometimes the best way to preserve memories is to have them remain memories, instead of con­stantly trying to recreate the past. And as you can see by my list of possible reunion tours, some things are better off left in the past. 
However, I don't think my speculations are completely implausible. Just consider this: last year, one of the performers who appeared at the JACC was BARRY MANILOW. 
Sign up for Senior Portrait sittings will be in either dining hall all this week or in the Dome office this Thursday and Friday from 3-5 
p.m. Sittings will begin Monday, Sept. 4, in Room 108, LaFortune. 
Theatre enthusiasts are invited to a party tonight in Washington Hall at 7 p.m. Food and drinks will be served. Meet the theatre faculty and learn about this season's plays. 

Design Edllor .................. Chris Labaree Design Assltsnt ........... Kristin Costello ~............................. TimQuinn .......................................................... Tim Kiefer 
News Edlor........................... Flo Hoelker News Copy Edltor........... John O'Brien 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Sports Copy Editor... Molly Mahoney 
(219) 239-7471 VIewpoint Copy Editor Dave Bruner Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin Accent Designer ............. Alison Cocks Typists ....................................Janet Herold 
.................................................... Lisa Bourdon dunng exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except 
................................................ Molly Mahoney UniverSity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s College. Subscriptions may be pur­···--···············-········--·············--Elaine Hammes chased tor S40 per year (S25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
NO Day Editor ...................... Kelly Tuthill The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction nghts 
Photographer ................ Trey Raymond are reserved. Ads Designer .............. Shannon Roach 
Wednesday, August 30, 1989 The Observer 


~;::-~ 
' 

Pachyderm Protest AP Photo 
One elephant and one hundred protestors wearing elephant masks march on New Delhi's Town Hall Monday to protest alleged municipal corruption. According to the protestors, the city administration wastes over $10 million dollars of taxpayers' money. 

Kimmerly's 
GlfiA·s PIZZA 
DELIVERY fiND CfiRRY OOT 
With hand rolled crust as only Gina's makes it and 
PARTY STORE 
2640 South 3rd. at Bertrand Road Niles, Michigan · 
r----~-------------•
681;5930 i Sl00 Off i
1
1 
Any Pizza 

Hours: Tuesday 4-9 p.m. : I Fnday and Saturday 4-12 p.m. 1 ,. Tues., Wed 7, Thurs. 1 
~'\ Kimmarlys I 
Wednesday. Thursday, I "6\~0 Gina's Pizza 1 
Sunday 4-11 p.m. (Mich. Time) L
___________________J 
********************************************************************* 
... 
. 

~ SENIOR PORTRAITS!!! 
... 
,.. eA 
,._ ~I Qa.g! ,_ee\~~ • 
... ;> 
... 
! YOU'VE GOT THE TAN­
! WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR??!!! 
... 
! ... sign-ups for all SENIOR PORTRAITS will be held TUES., WED.,THURS., •... and FRI. of THIS WEEK in both NORTH and SOUTH DINING HALLS 
... 
• ... during all LUNCHES and DINNERS!!! ... 
...
! Sittings will be in Room_ lOS of LaFortune Student Center beginning on 
• Monday, Sept. 4, at 10:00 a.m. and will continue through Friday, Sep­
... 
...• tember 22. 
... 
... ! Smile-while you still have that golden summer tan!!! 
t*******************************************************************• 
. ~ 
* 
. * 
: 
• 
!: 
. 
. :
. 
. ,.. * 
.• : •. 
•: 

pa e 3 Construction causing parking adjustments 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Senior Staff Reporter 
Campus construction on Juniper Road and Green Field has caused some changes in parking at Notre Dame. 
The construction of the new band and ROTC buildings has caused some changes in the D2, C2 and B2 lots on Juniper Road, said Phillip Johnson, assistant director of Security. C2 and B2 lots will now be used exclusively for faculty and st<iff. Students will now park in the D2 lot, said Johnson. 
Security distributed a memo to students who park in D2 
Conservative Iranian government approved 
Associated Press 

NICOSIA, CYPRUS--Iran's Parliament approved all 22 members of President Hashemi Rafsanjani's new government Tuesday, opening the way for economic reform and gradual restoration of ties with the West. 
The official Islamic Republic News Agency said the 270­member Majlis took the "unprecedented" step of endorsing the entire cabinet. In past ballots, deputies reflected several nominees. Earlier reports suggested three cabinet expanded this fall. The D2 lot will extend to the White Field area, north of D2, said Johnson. 
White Field can be used for overflow parking from D2, said Johnson. The area should be paved and fenced by November. Presently the area does have lighting and more lighting will be added soon, according to Johnson. 
Additional overflow parking for D2 is available in the O'Hara-Grace Guest Lot ofT of Bulla Road, said Johnson. Students may also park in the Dl lot south of the stadium. 
Construction on the Green Field area near Notre Dame Avenue has made overflow parking on the Field an impossibility. Johnson said student parking is now in the Cl and Dl lots south of the stadium. 
The Physical Plant department has hired a private consultant to help with the long range planning of campus parking as construction constantly alters the campus, said Donald Dedrick, director of Physical Plant. For the last month this consultant has been studying parking and circulation of cars at Notre Dame. 
Dedrick said eventually the consultant will make a recommendation based on the impact that construction has on parking and circulation. 
candidates would be turned 
down. 
Iran's state TV showed deputies chanting "Death to America! Death to Israel! Death to Britain!" After the results of the secret ballot were read out by Speaker Mehdi Karrubi. 
However, the new cabinet contains more technocrats, many of them Western­educated, than revolutionary ideologues. 
The appointments reflect Rafsanjani's pledge to focus on raising living standards and boost private enterprise after a decade of strict state controls on the economy. 
Rafsanjani had come under fire from radicals for dumping their leaders from his Cabinet. They included outgoing interior minister Ali Akbar Mohtashemi, who was has been closely linked with Shiite Moslem militants holding most of the Western hostages in Lebanon. 
The endorsements came after Karrubi, a member of the radical faction opposed to Rafsanjani's pragmatists, gave the Cabinet list his personal backing at the last minute. 
"I see Mr. Rafsanjani's Cabinet as a successful one and one that supports the deprived... and whose members have worked for the (1979 Islamic) Revolution," Karrubi said. 
Karrubi's support was seen as critical for Rafsanjani, who was elected president July 28 
and  handed broadened  
executive powers.  
The  Cabinet  approval  

indicated the radicals were prepared to follow spiritual leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei's call for an end to political bickering. 
Khamenei became the Iran's supreme leader after the death 
HAMMES WELCOME BACK STUDENTS, FACULTV,N°~E &STAFFI ~------­Scotch Post-ItWALLSAVER Brand MEMO CUBESMOUNTINGT.APE (450 sheets)(Removable Poster Tape) SQUARES $2.99$1.95 $. 79 Special Hours; August 30 9a.m. -?p.m.  

page 4 The Observer Wednesday, August 30, 1989 
Tanker bombed by Syrians; 10 dead in Lebanese confict 
Associated Press 40,000 Syrian soldiers in 
Lebanon. 
BEIRUT, Lebanon--Syrian A police spokesman said the gunners shelled an oil tanker Sunshield was hit by at least bound for a Christian port one shell from radar-controlled Tuesday and set it ablaze, Syrian Howitzers deployed killing seven crewmen and along the seafront in Moslem starting an artillery duel that West Beirut. took three more lives, police Hanna Saddiq, 24, said at a reported. hospital in Christian east Beirut 
They said the Maltese-Flag the tanker was set ablaze by Sunshield was hit at 2:30 a.m. missiles from a Syrian gunboat seven miles off the Christian­that intercepted it. held Mameltein area 11 miles "The Syrian Captain ordered north of Beirut while trying to us through a bullhorn to run the Syrian artillery identify ourselves and our blockade under cover of cargo. Our captain did not darkness. It carried 555,000 reply," said Saddiq, who was gallons of gasoline. being treated for severe burns. 
Johannes Garabedian, the "All our crew were hiding Lebanese captain, was among behind sandbags placed on the the dead. Coast guard vessels bridge to protect us from rescued two wounded crew Syrian shelling. The Syrian members, two others were gunboat sailed away and then missing and feared dead, the fired several missles that hit police reported. They said the the bridge, starting the fire," seven badly burned bodies If Saddiq's report is correct, washed ashore several hours it would be the first time a later after the tanker was hit. Syrian warship fired on a cargo 
Police reported three people vessel since the fighting began killed and 16 wounded in the nearly six months ago. They evening five-hour artillery usually order intercepted ships exchange between Syrian army to fight back. gunners and Christian army Police insisted the Sunshield units led by Gen. Michael Aoun. was hit by artillery fire from Three of the two wounded were West Beirut directed by Syrian Moslem firemen hit when an radars in mountains 82mm mortar round exploded overlooking the coast. in the parking lot of a West Beirut fire station. "What probably happened is 
At least 802 people have been that the gunboat pulled away, killed and 2,268 wounded, as they usually do, leaving it to nearly all of them civilians, be hit by shellfire," said the since fighting began March 8 police spokesman, who cannot between Aoun's men and a be identified under standing Moslem alliance led by the rules. 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer )Mt advertising. )Mt 
~ Call 239-6900 ~ 



Panasonic 
NDISMC 

STUDENT 
SPECIAL 

ONE WEEK ONLY Sale ends Sept. 5 
640K, IBMXT Compatible, 3 1/2" -720K and 20 meg hard disk, monochrome moniter 
IRetail 1695 I$1 075.00 I 
add 5 1 /4" floppy $1 00.00 Panasonic 1 080 w/cable $225.00 
ARM Computing 
233-5971 
Located in the Computer Mall, downtown South Bend 
Iran 
continued from page 3 
June 3 of revolutionary patriarch Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. 
But Karrubi, who succeeded Rafsanjani as speaker, also said the new ministers would face tough scrutiny in the chamber, where radical factions have dominated since parliamentary elections last year. 

"Our hands will not be tied if a minister gets the vote," he said. 
Rafsanjani, speaking before the vote, called for more government efficiency, noting that in the past "only 50 or 60 percent of programs passed in Parliament had actually been implemented." 
Iran is seeking to rebuild industry after an eight-year war with Iraq. It also hopes to boost productivity after years of economic mismanagement by revolutionary radicals. 
Rafsanjani also is expected to gradually revive links with the West to end Iran's isolation and attract foreign investment. 
A key figure in restoring foreign relations will be Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Velayati, 44, a U.S.-trained pediatrician who helped negotiate the cease-fire with Iraq that took effect in August 1988. 

Wednesday, August 30, 1989 
The Observer 

Mine heist nets $200,000 worth of silver 
20 miles from Lovelock, a town more than 90 miles northeast of Reno. 
RENO, Nev.--Investigators "We're fairly sure it was an frustrated by a bold heist of inside job," Davis said. "They more than a ton of silver knew something about the shaped like Hershey's Kisses mine." from a mine are hoping the Gene Smith, spokesman for thieves brag and are watching the U.S. Borax Corp., which smelters capable of melting owns part of the mine, said a down the $200,000-plus cache. shotgun-toting man in a red ski 
"We didn't have any leads. mask tied up two mine employ­But they have to melt it down," ees with duct tape Saturday Undersheriff Bill Davis said night, and, with an accomplice Tuesday. "And I'm confident who was either a woman or a we'll get a tip from somebody small man, used a wheelbarrow who'll hear about the heist. All to haul 1.25 tons of silver good crooks brag about the buttons to a pickup. jobs they pulled." They then left spikes in the 
Officials are investigating road to flatten tires of any past and present employees of pursuers. the Trinity Silver Mine, about The robbery was discovered 
Associated Press 

Want to look good? Party hearty-Get good grades ­Have lots of energy?! 
Natural -low cal snacks Vitamins-"when you just can't eat right" Instant, Frozen natural foods Cosmetics Athletic supplements Lots more!! """ ...., 1l1l 11.,
41­

valJl"\Wellll 1ral u. <1: All! 
~~GELA Mialll"Jk.e1t 
228 W. Edison Mlot.awaka. IN 46545 Hou111 10 <l.M • 7 PM M-Sat 255-3151 

when the next shift came in Sunday morning, police said. The bound employees weren't injured. 
It took the robbers more than one hour to haul the silver from a locked vault to the pickup, said Smith. He said the thieves apparently broke the lock. 
The buttons are made when silver removed from the mine's ore is melted and poured into molds. 
Smith said the mine normally waits until it has about 50,000 ounces --more than 1.5 tons -­of ore, or impure silver, before it ships a load to a smelter for refming. 
The-mine was expected to produce about $4 million worth of silver this year. 
Pershing County authorities notified the precious metals dealers. But Smith and smelter operators said the crooks would probably melt the silver themselves through an arrangement with a smelter or try to ship it out of the country. 
"They seem to have thought out everything beforehand, so I'm sure they've thought this through, too," Smith said. 
Bob Horton, associate dean of the Mackay School of Mines at the University of Nevada­Reno, said authorities could trace the silver by examining its makeup. Every precious metal sample has its own unique mix of impurities. 

ATTENTION STUDENTS!! ATTENTION STUDENTS!! 
NOTRE DAME'S DEVELOPMENT PHONE CENTER NOW HIRING FOR THE 1989 FALL SEMESTER 
25-35 Student Positions Available Starting September 5th $4.70 Per Hour Flexible evening hours: 6:00-10:30 
All interested are invited to an informal Open House/Information Session at the Development Phone Center (southeast corner of Badin Hall) Thursday August 31 or Friday September 1 F~om 4:00p.m. -5:00p.m. 
PLEASE JOIN US For more information, call Carol McClory 239-7938 or Mike Brach 239-7241 

Kenneth Steel tapes up the smashed storefront window of the Pep Boys store in Vineland, N.J. Tuesday morning. About 200 people ran rampant in Vineland streets early Tuesday morning after a protest over the shooting death of a black youth by police. 
Drug 

continued from page 1 
source of patronage for political leaders. 
No one was hurt in the early morning blasts, according to national police spokesmen in Medellin. They estimated damages at $100,000. 
They were the latest in a wave of terror attacks in Medellin since the cartels declared war on the government. The city had been hit by 17 bombings, killing two people. Three prominent citizens' homes have been doused with gasoline and set afire by pre-dawn attackers. 
A seventh bomb went off outside a tourist agency office in Bogota, but it was not clear if the attack was related to drug trafficking. 
A person who identified himself as a spokesman for 

NEED$ FOR FALL BREAK? NEED$ TO GO HOME FOR THE HOLIDAYS? 
UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES BETTER THAN EVER! NOW HIRING A FEW AMBITIOUS STUDENTS. 
Positions Available are: Waiters Waitresses Bartenders Attendants Casual Employment Catering Positions 
Call the Central Administration of University Food Services at 239-7254 to apply 

drug traffickers claimed responsibility for the seven bombings Tuesday and nine bombs that exploded in Medellin on Sunday. The claim came in phone calls to Medellin radio stations. 
In his emotional appeal, which was dated Saturday and appearl)d in the Bogota daily El Tiempo, Ochoa Restrepo called on Barco to "stop the bloodshed in our poor and dear Colombia." 
"Nobody in the world ever won a war, all that is left are orphans, widows and pained mothers," said Ochoa Restrepo, 
65. He said traffickers should be called on "to stop dead" their activities, " No more drug trafficking, no more war, no more killings, no more bombs, no more fire," 
Neither U.S. nor Colombian authorities have accused Ochoa Restrepo of trafficking. But his three sons, Jorge Ochoa Vasquez, Juan Ochoa Vasquez and Fabio Ochoa Vasquez. are alleged to be among the kingpins of the Medellin cocaine cartel and are wanted, along with several other reputed drug barons, by the United States. 
Drug agents believe the cartel is responsible for 80 percent of the cocaine distributed in the United States. 
Ochoa Restrepo asked Barco in the letter to forgive the traffickers who "have made mistakes, they have mothers, fathers, children, brothers, relatives and friends. We're all human." 
He said any negotiated concessions by the traffickers would also require concessions by the leftist Guerrillas. 
The traffickers allegedly have equipped and financed right wing paramilitary death squads that have killed hundreds of suspected leftists and provided security and assassination services for the traffickers. 
In Washington, Mrs. de Greiff pledged Tuesday to continue to fight her country's drug lords despite death threats, and she appealed for more U.S. aid to protect judges. 
Viewpoint 

Wednesday, August 30, 1989
~ge 6 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Edltor....... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager............. Molly Killen VIewpoint Edltor.................... Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager........ Shannon Roach Sports Editor_____, ............. Theresa Kelly Production Manager............ Aiison Cocks Accent Edltor............................. John Blasi Systems Manager.............. Mark Derwent 
Photo Edltor........________........ Eric Bailey 

OTS Director .................. Angela Bellanca S.lnt 118ry's Edltor......_______Christine Gill Controller...... . .................. Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objective­ly as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Ed­itor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Ac­cent Edilor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

Viewpoint Department Policy 
I. 

All members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community may 
submit  columns,  letters  to  the  
editor,  or  cartoons  to  the  
Viewpoint  department  of  The  

Observer. While individuals not associated with Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community may submit columns, letters to the editor, and cartoons, the Viewpoint department gives priority to those individuals who are directly associated with the community. 
D. 

All columns, letters to the editor, and cartoons submitted to the Viewpoint department become the property of The Observer. Any further use of these commentaries without the written consent of The Observer is prohibited. Not-for­profit organizations, those organizations which have a recip­rocal-usage agreement and those organizations of which The Observer is a member may be granted permission to publish commentaries with the permission of the editor-in-chief or the per­mission of the managing editor and the Viewpoint editor. If the commentaries have not been printed in The Observer, the Viewpoint editor may return them to the authors. 
III. 

The Viewpoint department re­serves the right to edit all commentaries submitted to the Viewpoint department. The Observer has no obligation to print commentaries submitted. 
DOONESBURY 
Commentaries will not be printed if they are libelous, unintelligible or submitted by anyone mentallyunbalanced. 
IV. 
All commentaries submitted to The Observer must bear the signature of the author. Under no circumstances will unsigned commentaries appear in print in the Viewpoint section of The Observer. The author's name appearing in print must be one by 
which  the  author  is  commonly  
known.  
v.  

Commentaries submitted as letters to the editor may not exceed three in number from the same individual or organization within the same academic semester. There is no limit to the number of times an individual or organization may have their commentaries appear in print as columnists 
VI. 
All commentaries printed in the Viewpoint section must be verified before being printed. The means of verification are left to the discretion of the Viewpoint editor. 
VII. 
Only those individuals authorized to speak as representatives for a group will be allowed to use the organization's name. In such ca.,ses, the primary author of the 

commentary is the individual(s), and the commentary is, in effect, 
only  being  co-signed  by  the  
organization.  
VIII.  

Commentaries which appear in the Viewpoint section may not have been printed previously in other newspapers, magazines or publications. Exceptions to this procedure are those organizations of which The Observer is a member, quotations used for com­mentaries and "Quote of the day." Syndicated columns also are excluded from this procedure. 
IX. 

The opinions expressed in the Viewpoint section are not necessarily those of the editorial board. House editorials appear in the Viewpoint section of The Observer. Regular columnists, those whose columns appear on a regular basis; guest columnists, those whose columns do not appear on a regular basis; letters to the editor; and cartoons are commentaries. Such status is de­termined by the Viewpoint editor in all incidences except house editorials. The House Editorial Guidelines and the Insta House Guidelines are included in the House Editorial Policy. 
X. 

Paid employees of The Observer are not permitted to have their commentaries appear in the Viewpoint section as letters to the editor. Regular columnists and members of the Viewpoint staff 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

also are not eligible to have their commentaries appear in the Viewpoint section as letters to the editor. The status of such individuals is determined by the Viewpoint editor. Those whose commentaries appear in print in column form may not respond to criticism of that commentary in letters to the editor. 
XI. 
This policy must be approved be the editorial board and can be amended by a majority vote of the editorial board. All procedures not covered in this policy statement are left to the discretion of the Viewpoint editor. The procedures outlined in this policy apply only to the Viewpoint department of The Observer. 
XII. 
No commentaries of any kind will be printed in the Viewpoint section concerning and candidate for student government or hall office once the official campaign period has begun for that office. This ban on commentaries is to continue until the election for this position has been completed. The Observer reserves the right to comment on any candidate or issue it wishes throughout the campaign period. At any time, the editor-in-chief and the Viewpoint editor may suspend this article. 
XIII. 
This policy is available to the public during normal business hours and must be prominently displayed in the Viewpoint department of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Accent

Wednesday, August 30, 1989 page 7 
Burgers and ice cream make Patties unbeatable 
KELLEY TUTHILL 
Accent Writer 

Patties could be called the Arnold's of the 80's. It's burg­ers and fries all at prices even students who are short of money can afford. It even has a jukebox. 
The menu is posted on the wall as you walk into the restaurant and consists of ap­petizers, sandwiches, salads and soups, and a health watch­ers section. After ordering at the counter and receiving a food number, seating is self­service in one of the two seating areas and Pattie's back room has a big-screen T.V. to entertain those still waiting. 
tea. The Coke products come in bottles, so there's no refills on those. Patties serves domestic and imported beers as well. 
Our number to claim our food was called in about 15 minutes. First we tried the spicy meat, cheddar cheese and sour cream potato skins ($3.97) which were five generous potato halves stuffed with toppings. The meat inside, however, wasn't very tasty --it was somewhat like chili meat that had been through a blender. The cheese, bacon, and sour cream skins are probably very good without the meat. 
Our first entree was The Works, a half-pound burger served with french fries or 
PATTifS 
GOURMET BURGERS & ICE CREAM 
The menu lists popular appe­tizers like potato skins, bread­sticks and Mexican dip, and all are priced under $5. Patties of­fers free refills on their Pepsi­Cola drinks and on coffee and onion rings, and a green salad or soup ($5.25). The burger was cooked as ordered and the counter-side condiment bar of­fered a myriad of toppings. The accompanying fries were some 

Robert Smith: Big hair. Bright red clown lips. Blue mascara. Wailing and whining. After over ten years in the sup­posed underground music scene, The Cure have received American airplay, performing to sold out shows in (gasp!) stadiums. With the release of the hit single "Fascination Street" in late spring, the ec­centric, notoriously depressed Smith and his band have made themselves accessible to widespread exposure and po­tential Top 40 material without compromising their unique style and mood by consistently releasing creatively charged al­bums. 
The Cure's latest release, "Disintegration," is their most finely orchestrated mellow ef­fort to date. Gone are the 
gloom-glorifying days of "Faith" and "Pornography," the thrash and psychedelia of eclectic albums such as 'The Top" and "Kiss Me, Kiss Me, Kiss Me," and the sticky pop songs like "Let's Go to Bed," "Close to Me," and "Why Can't I Be You." 
What's left is a definite ethe­
real mood album with themes 
of nostalgia, hidden feelings, 
and nightmares. Sure, Smith is 
still not a happy camper, but he 
isn't exactly ready to drown 
himself. Many of the songs are 
actually love songs, especially 
"Love Song," the second 
American single that sounds 
like an older Church tune. 
These aren't your ordinary 
love songs. " Plainsong" relates 
an ethereal feeling through a 
conversation, "Untitled" 
speaks of feelings never 
expressed, "Pictures of You" of the best fries that we had 
ever tasted--golden brown gen­
erous cuts of potato. The 
cheese soup that came with the meal was simply melted cheese with some potatoes in it. I sug­gest the salad instead. 
The chicken breast fillet which is charbroiled plain or teriyaki with or without cheese ($3.95) was another great op­tion, and was served with ched­dar cheese melted on top. The side order of spicy fries ($1.80) was just as wonderful as the plain fries (obviously Patties is a great place for fries). The sandwich rolls on both the burger and the chicken sand­wich were excellent, and overall our meals were wonderful. 
During our meal we were easily able to help ourselves to the free refills on Pepsi's. The refills are right near the ice cream bar which makes it very hard to resist an ice cream dessert. 
I soon realized that no one 
would ever want to resist 
dessert at Patties. As I glanced 
over the ice cream menu I saw 
that they have over 300 choices 
of ice cream treats. These sun­
daes and shakes could tempt 
THE CURE 
Disintegration 
The eccentric, notoriously depressed Smith and his band have made themselves accessible to widespread exposure and potential Top 40 material. 
relates nostalgia and love 
through photographs, and 
"Last Dance," a bonus track, is 
about a stale reunion of former 
lovers. "Lullaby," a British sin­
gle, is one of the most interest­
ing tunes on the album. It is 
about a childhood nightmare of 
being eaten by a spider, and it 
is delightfully haunting. 
The upbeat "Disintegration" 
is the only remnant of previous 
thrasher material, while 
"Prayers for Rain" is reminis­
cent of The Cure's gloomy past. 
If the album "Disintegration" 
and its accompanying tour 
(The Cure will be appearing at 
the Rosemont Horizon in 
Chicago this Thursday and 
Friday with Shelleyan Orphan) 
are actually the last, as Smith 
says they are, then the Cure 
certainly have summarized 
their more than ten year career 
ingeniously with this album. 


even Jane Fonda. 

The menu has ice cream so­das, floats, take-home pints and quarts, 105 different sun­daes and 102 types of shakes. Number 85 is the Peppermint Crumb sundae which is pep­permint stick ice cream served on a brownie topped with hot fudge ($1.95). The number 46 shake is the Happy Birthday which is a strawberry shake with moist cake pieces inside topped with whipped cream and even a birthday candle. The back of the ice cream menu adds, "We will be glad to fix you any ice cream combination that you desire," as if there wasn't enough options to please everyone. 
I decided to try a blizzbuster. It's like a milk shake, but a spoon is needed because it is so thick. I tried the Heath Bar which is soft vanilla ice cream that is blended with the candy. 
There are also 20 other types of blizzbusters to choose from. Mine was the perfect ending to an excellent meal. The 12-ounce size is $1.25 and the 16-ounce is $1.59. Don't worry, Patties ~. also has plain old ice cream in cups and cones, with over 20 toppings to choose from. 
Patties is located at 3602 Grape Road, and is open from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. Sunday thru Thursday, and 11 a.m. to 11 
p.m. Friday and Saturday. There's some construction on this end of Grape, but local traffic can bypass the "road closed" sign to get to Patties. Patties also accepts phone orders at 255-5525. 
If you want excellent burgers and fries, or a sandwich at low prices, Patties can't be beat. As for their ice cream, I honestly don't think a better selection could be found anywhere in the Michiana area. Those on diets, beware. 
MUSIC 
REVIEWS 
JASON WINSLADE 
accent writer 
THE THE 
Mind Bomb 
An album definitely 
toned down... and 
whose subjects are 
definitely more 
concentrated. 
The The, previously the vehi­cle for Matt Johnson and his studio musicians, is now a full­fledged band, whose most no­table new member is former Smiths guitarisVmusic writer Johnny Marr. Their new album is "Mind Bomb," an album defi­nitely toned down from Johnson's previous effort, "Infected," and whose subjects are defmitely more concen­trated: love, sex, and religion. (What else is there, really?) 
The style utilizes such older standards as harmonicas and simple drums with brushes, especially in the album's first single, "The Beat(en) Generation," a sort of summary of all that Johnson thinks is wrong in society (blind religion, political enslavement, war and violence). Religion is also cov­ered in "Good Morning Beautiful," "The Violence of Truth," and "Armageddon Days Are Here (again)," in which "The world is on its elbows and knees/ it's forgotten the mes­sage and worships the creeds." Look out conservative Catholics! 
One of the highlights of the album is a duet with Sinead O'Connor on "Kingdom of Rain," and "Beyond Love" the song that made the PMRC leave their mark on the jacket. "August and September" is an­other likable mellow song. Over all, "Mind Bomb" is noth­ing spectacular, but it can be quite enjoyable at times, although I expected a little more from Marr. Listen for their new single "Gravitate to Me" on underground radio. 
The Observer Wednesday, August 30, 1989
page 8 

Old-timers shine at rainy U.S. Open 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK--Jimmy Connors and Chris Evert, longtime crowd favorites at the U.S. Open and winners of 11 champ­ionships between them, took fans on a sentimental journey Tuesday with victories that brightened a rainy day. 
Connors, four days shy of 37 and fresh after a nine-week va­cation from tennis, played with nearly the same verve he showed in his first Open 20 years ago as he crushed 24­year-old Tom Nijssen of the Netherlands 6-2, 6-1, 6-2. 
" I didn't hang around tennis all summer," said Connors, who set a record for most matches in a U.S. Championship with 103, one more than Vic Seixas, "I really got away and I like it. I come back and I see some things I enjoy, and a lot of the things I'm glad I got away from. My tennis was OK, it was the men­tal outlook that wasn't too good." 
The fans were with Connors on every point, but they showed a special affection for Evert, whom they've adored from her debut as a pony-tailed teen­ager through her years as six­time champion. 
After a loving ovation as she started her 19th Open, Evert, a little nervous, her baseline shots less precise than in the past, made the points she 
Holtz 
continued from page 12 
from that team, which finished with five consecutive victories. The offense will be directed by junior quarterback Shawn Moore, 19th in the nation last year in total offense. 
"We think our program has reached the level where we can be competitive with anyone," Welsh said. 
"When I first came to Virginia in 1982, it was hard to recruit. Now we have a much more positive image and play­ers want to come here." 
Although Virginia and Notre Dame have both been playing needed to beat Argentina's Bettina Fulco 6-4, 6-2. 
There were some tense mo­ments and a few rain delays on the second day of the Open, but the only upsets were minor ones, ninth-seeded Pam Shriver losing 6-2, 6-3 to Larisa Savchenko of the Soviet Union, and 10th-seeded Mary Joe Fernandez falling to Wendy White 6-4, 6-3. 
Sweden's Stefan Edberg seed third, beat Argentina's Javier Frana 7-6, 6-2, 7-5; Andre Agassi, seeded sixth, beat Robbie Weiss 6-3, 7-6, 6-4, Tim Mayotte, seeded ninth, beat Marc Flur 6-1. 6-3, 6-2. 
Martina Navratilova, the sec­ond-seeded woman beat new­comer Ei lida of Japan 6-0, 6-2. Gabriela Sabatini, the third seed of Argentina, beat Claudia Porwik of West Germany 6-1, 6-2. 
Evert, 34, who seeded fourth, had her parents, brother and husband, skier Andy Mill, at courtside, filled with emotion and memories along with the fans, wondering at times early in the match whether this would be her last. 
Evert's decision to end her in­volvement in major tennis after the Open, perhaps to pursue motherhood, put drama in her appearance but no extra pres­sure on her. 
"It doesn't feel any different with me," she said. "I'm aware of people's reaction, being a lit­tle more supportive because it's 
football for 100 years, this will be the first meeting between the schools. 
"Our kids are very excited about playing Notre Dame," Welsh said. 
"They've worked very hard in practice because they know if they don't play well, they're go­ing to be 0-1." 
With so many Notre Dame alumni and fans in the New York area, most of the sellout crowd of 76,891 will be rooting for the Fighting Irish. 
"That shouldn't bother us," Welsh said. "We play before that kind of crowd at Clemson and we enjoy it." 
Notre Dame is the fourth de­fending national champion to play in the Kickoff Classic. 
my last Open." 
She began inauspiciously, 
broken by Fulco after a batch 
of unforced errors --a fore­
hand in the net, another one 
long, one more in the net and 
final one wide. 
"My whole career people have been talking about how tough I am," she said. "Now that I'm losing some, I can see how tough I was --the killer in­stinct, the single-mindedness, playing like a machine. But, boy, that's what made me a champion." 
She bit her lip on the court after that first game and looked down. This was not the way she wanted to start. Fulco, though, began her service with a double-fault, and Evert seized the opportunity, eventually breaking her on crisp forehand volley after coming in behind a drop shot. 
It was Evert's 98th career victory at the Open, against only 11 losses. Incredibly, she has won 202 sets and dropped just 33. 
She reached the semifinals in her first U.S. Open, in 1971, made the semis the next three years, then began a streak of four straight titles from 197 5 through 1978. After losing in the finals in 1979, she won again in 1980, lost in the semis in 1981 and won for the last time in 1982. 
Base 
continued from page 12 
Athletics 19, Yankees 5 
Jose Canseco capped Oakland's 10-run fifth inning with his second tape -measure home run of the game and the Oakland Athletics routed New York 19-5 Tuesday night. 
The A's battered four New York pitchers for 18 hits. Oakland sent 13 batters to the plate in the fifth inning. 
The Yankees actually led 3-0 after one inning but Canseco's two run dinger tied the score in the third inning against Chuck Cary, 3-3, and his three-run 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
The ND wrestling team is holding an informational meeting for those students wishing to be walk-ons Monday at 4:30 p.m. in Coach Fran McCann's office on the second floor of the Joyce ACC behind the Monogram Room. Any questions should be directed to Coach McCann's office at 239-6167. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame sports information depart­ment was recognized as having the best football programs among Division 1A schools in the nation for the 1988 sea­son, the College Sports Information Directors of America announced. -The Observer 
The ND lacrosse team is holding a meeting for all students interested in trying out for the team Monday at 4 
p.m. at Loftus Auditorium. -The Observer. 
Trumbull, Conn., became the first United States team since 1983 to win the the Little League World Series after a 5-2 win over Kaohsiung (Taiwan) in Sunday's final. Marietta, Ga., had been the last American team to win the championship. -The Observer 
Pat O'Hara, the expected starting quarterback for Southern California, was lost for the season after under­going surgery last weekend for torn ligaments in his right knee and a fractured right shin. Freshman Todd Marinovich will start the season opener Sept. 4 against Illinois. -The Observer 
The ND Rugby Club will hold an informational meet­ing in the Haggar Hall Auditorium at 5 p.m. on Thurs., Aug. 31 for anyone interested in joining the club. No experience is necessary. If you have any questions, call Mike at 287-8648. 
-The Observer 
The ND Rowing Club will have a meeting today for all varsity members that are planning to row this semester at the boat house, 4: 30 p.m.-The Observer 
The Cycling Club of Notre Dame is gearing up and hitting the road. Sign up for fun, fitness and sport. Call Darren Buck at 283-3472 for more information. -The Observer. 
blast off Greg Cadaret enabled the A's to match the club record of 10 runs in an inning last accomplished against Milwaukee on May 9, 1972. 
Winner Storm Davis, 15-6, allowed eight hits and all the New York runs in seven in­nings. 
Red Sox 8-13, Angels 4-5 
Wade Boggs had a pair of singles in a nine-run fourth in­ning as the Boston Red Sox charged to their ninth straight win by whipping California 13-5 and sweeping Tuesday's twi­night double header from the Angels. 
The game was called after 7 1/2 innings following a 46 minute rain delay. 
Boston won the first game 8­4, shelling Bert Blyleven, 14-3, for seven runs in three innings and ending his 10 game winning streak. 
The Red Sox led 3-2 in the nightcap when they broke it open by sending 15 batters to the plate in the fourth. They widened their lead to 12-2 on seven hits, four walks, a hit batsman and a couple of wild pitches before Ellis Burks flied out with the bases loaded to end the inning. 
Dwight Evans scored two runs in the inning after a walk and single. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every bus1ness day from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. at the Notre Dame oHice, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 untll3 p m. at the Sa:nt Mary's officP. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classif1eds is 3 p.m. All class1f1eds must
Classifieds 
be prepa1d. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day 
.·  NOTICES IIIII USED TEXBOOKS IIIII ORDERED IN 3 DAYS 25% OFF UST PRICE!!! Pandora's Books 808 Howard St.. 3 Blks. from ND 233-2342 We have paperbacks in stock from Aristotle to lola, Fromm to Yoder Ill PANDORA'S BUYS USED TEXTS TOO! TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. Alumni Sr. Club wed 9-2, thur 7-2, fri 9-2. sat 9-2 let's start the year off right!llllllll!llll  [ LOST/FOUND Lost: Ladies gray leather wallet on Mon. between 9 am & 12 in JACC Hockey Arena. Reward offered. Very important imigration papers. Contace Susan Maxins-277-4469. WANTED MAINTENANCE POSITION OPEN APPLY AT BRIDGErS THIS WEEK BETWEEN 2:30 & 4:30 Universrty Pizza Delivery is completing their expansion!!! We are now hiring pizza/submakers and delivery drivers (15 posrtions available). Flexible hours and good pay in a fast-paced, FUN  LOOKING FOR A FRATERNITY, SORORITY OR STUDENT ORGANIZATION THAT WOULD LIKE TO MAKE $500-$1 ,000 FOR A ONE WEEK ON-CAMPUS MARKETING PROJECT. MUST BE ORGANIZED AND HARDWORKING. CALL JOE OR MYRA AT (800) 592-2121. POST ADVERTISING MATERIALS ON CAMPUS. WRITE: COLLEGE DISTRIBUTORS, 33 PEBBLEWOOD TRAIL, NAPERVILLE, IL 60540. Need mother's helper for girls ages 7&9 for 20-25 hrs per week. Must drive own car to University Park area. Call Mona 232-1111. FOR RENT  ~-FO_R_S_A_LE_J COLOR TV RENTALS: LOW SEMESTER RATES. TVS & VCR'S. FREE DELIVERY. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272­5959. COUCH FOR SALE.272-6306 PERFECT COLLEGE CAR -N.D. GRAD MUST SELLI1981 HONDA PRELUDE, ZIPPY 5-SPEED, SUNROOF, AC, NEW CLUTCH, NEW FRONT & REAR BRAKES, NEW AMIFM STEREO CASSETTE, AND NEW BATTERY. $2500. CALL EDDIE B. 8-6@ 271­4060 OR AFTER 6 287-9093. waterbed I!!!! queen size, ready to set up LOW PRICE. call277-3346  SB TO HARTFORD. NW AND UAL. 1-WAY. SEPT. 2 AND 6. 239-7603 OR 291-6962. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEEDED: 2 General Admission Tickets for the USC Game and 2 General Admission Tickets for the SMU Game. Please call259-8215. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ PERSONALS BABYSITTERS NEEDED VARIOUS TIMES FOR CHARMING 4-YR GIRL. NEED OWN CAR AND LIKE CATS. 287-3315. HEY THERE I've got three tickets to Lou Reed  HiAg Alumni Sr. club card owners bring your I D's (school and driver's license) when you pick up your caret.. JUNIORS Come join your classmates tonite at the Center Street Blues Cafe Dinner 6-8 pm and dancing afterwards Happy Birthday, Kristen! Love Ya! Usa & KT If anyone is going to the Cure concert Friday in Chicago, I desperately need a ride! Please calli! X3677 How're you going to do it? How're you going to do rt ...  
ARE YOU... • interested in making many close friends? • curious to find out more about God and his relationship to you? • interested in seemg how Christian friends support each other? THEN OUR GROUP IS FOR YOU. We are lntervarsity Christian Fellowship -an interdenomin­ational organization that meets to discover who God is and how we can grow closer to him.  environment. Join the BEST student-run business around. APPLY NOW IN PERSON at University Pizza, 18055 State Road #23. DESPERATELY SEEKING NEWSPAPER CARRIER FOR ST. MARY'S. Good pay, must be extremely responsible. For details call 277-1859 and leave message. $350.00/DAY PROCESSING PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE  FURNISHED APT.-LIKE ROOM, AIR, KITCHEN, 5 MINS. NORTH CAMPUS. 272-0615. 2 Bdrm HOME on ND ave.272­6306 For Rent Furnished 2 bedroom house, safe & convienent area. Private parking lot . Basket ball court. Located next to 2 other ND houses. Contact Bruce: 288­5653 or 234-3831; leave message. APT. UTILITIES PAID GOOD  [ TICKETS HAVE (2) GA TIX PITT & PENN ST. NEED (2) GA USC. BILL (617) 328-6898. NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN STATE GAME. WILL PAY CASH OR EXCHANGE 2 GA'S FOR NAVY GAME. CALL TIM, FLANNER HALL EXT. 1143. I Need Michgan Tix!l Call Dan at 271-9821  Elvis Costello Edie Brickell and New Bohemians Cowboy Junkies Sept. 3 Alpine Valley WI I want you to have them 25.00 a piece Phone Chris at x1535 Look out world!!! Matt Ronzone is now legal! Happy 21st Birthday! love, your roommies SITTER NEEDED, PART TIME, KNOLLWOOD AREA, PREFER  ...when your first paper is due? BOOKS FOR SALE EE 241 Logic Design Math 335 Real Analysis Call Will at 1474. JOIN THE FUN !II START THE SEASON OFF RIGHT AND CELEBRATE THE KICK-OFF CLASSIC AT BRIDGErS THURSDAY NIGHT Gather ye rosebuds while ye may, Old Time is still a-flying And this same flower that smiles  
Watch the OBSERVER for details about our first meetings and events.  NECESSARY CALL (REFUNDABLE) 1-315-733-6062 EXTENSION P-2382H.  NEIGHBORHOOD MALE PREFERRED 288-0955  Need 2,4,6, or 8 GA's for the PITT game. Call Andy at x1964 or x1965.  YOU HAVE OWN TRANSPORTATION. CALL 277­8380.  today, Tomorrow will be dying. Herrick/DPS  

Wednesday, August 30, 1989 The Observer page 9 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer JMt advertising. ~ 
~ Call 239-6900 ~ 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE Department of Communication & Theatre ANNOUNCES OPEN AUDITIONS For the ND/SMC procuction of Anton Chekhov's THREE SISTERS directed by Roberta N. Rude 
Thurs. & Fri. Aug. 31 & Sept. 1 O'Laughlin Auditorium 7:30-10:30 p.m. 
For information and audition time call 284-4640. 
AUDITIONS 
You can save literally days of work between now and grad­uation. Simply by using an HP calculator. Th keep you from endlessly retracing your steps, ours have built-in shortcuts. Such as the unique HP Solve function for creating your own formulas. Menus, labels and prompts. Program libraries. Algebraic or RPN models. 
Cl 1989 Hewlett-Packard Company PGI2905 

Rose implicated by second witness 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI --A second fed­eral witness implicated Pete Rose in an alleged tax-fraud scheme Tuesday involving a winning race track ticket. 
Another witness in the trial of former Rose housemate Thomas Gioiosa also said that Rose was part of a group that often talked about gambling and drugs. 
The testimony in the third day of Gioiosa's trial on cocaine and tax-evasion charges con­tradicted Rose's contention that he had nothing to do with the winning race ticket. 
Rose also has maintained he didn't know about the drug ac­tivities of those who operated Gold's Gym in suburban Cincinnati where he worked out-an assertion challenged in testimony Tuesday. 
Rose was banned for life from baseball last week by Commissioner A. Bartlett Giamatti after a baseball inves­tigator concluded the former Cincinnati Reds manager bet on his own team. Rose has denied betting on baseball, but ac­cepted the lifetime ban as fair. 

A Federal Grand Jury is looking into whether Rose paid all the required taxes on his in­come from gambling, memora­bilia sales and autograph ap­pearances. The government has indicated the Pik Six race ticket involving Gioiosa is part of that investigation. 
Prosecutors have accused Gioiosa, 31, of falsely claiming on his taxes that he owned a winning $47,646 Pik Six ticket from Turfway Park in Florence, Ky., that actually belonged to Rose. The government alleges Gioiosa claimed the ticket be­cause he was in a lower tax bracket than Rose. 
Rose has denied any involve­ment in the winning ticket, and Gioiosa has pleaded innocent. However, accountant Joseph 
Ourway. 
Better algorithms and chip 
design help you finish much 
faster and more accurately 
than their way. So, whether 
you're in engineering, busi­
ness, finance, life or social 
sciences, we've got the best There is a betterway. 
calculator for you. For as 
little as $49.95. Check it out 
at your campus bookstore FJ/;-HEWLETT 
or HP retailer. a=~ PACKARD 

Mansour testified Tuesday that Gioiosa told him he was claim­ing the ticket for Rose. 
Mansour did Gioiosa's tax returns for 1985-87. 
"He volunteered the informa­tion that the winning ticket be­longed to Pete Rose, and he was going to forward to pay the taxes on it," Mansour said. 
Mansour, like Gioiosa, was a bodybuilder who worked out at Gold's Gym. He was testifying Tuesday under a plea agree­ment with the federal govern­ment to clear up his own tax problems-failing to file a 1985 return. 
Defense lawyer Martin Pinales tried to undermine Mansour's testimony by point­ing out the accountant's legal problems. He also said a taped conversation has Mansour telling another former Rose as­sociate, Paul Janszen, that Gioiosa claimed the winning ticket was his alone. 
After Mansour said he didn't remember that second conver­sation, Pinales had the tape played for him on headphones; jurors and reporters weren't permitted to hear it. Mansour than acknowledged he had told Janszen in that conversation that Gioiosa claimed the win­ning ticket was his. 
The government contends that Gioiosa was part of a ma­jor cocaine smuggling opera­tion. 
NO golfers hosttoumey 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's varsity men's and women's golf teams, in conjunction with the Burke memorial Golf Course on campus, are hosting a golf tournament on Two successive weekends, September 9 and 10, and 16 and 17. 
The Notre Dame Campus Championship Golf Tournament is open to faculty, staff administration and students. 
The tournament is also an open tryout for the men's and women's varsity golf teams. 
Entry forms and information are available at the Burke Pro Shop or the Starters Hut. The 
entry fee  is  $5,  and  entries  
must  be  received  by  5 p.m.,  
Monday, September 4.  

JUST WHEN YOU NEED IT 
The Navy has $30.000 or more to help you finish your last two Years of college. 
The Naval ReserYe Officers Tr.1ining Corps (1\IROTC) Two­Year Scholarship Program can pay your tuition, textbooks and instmctional fees, plus gh·e you a monthly $100 ta.x-fTee allowance dwing your last 20 months of college. 
Upon graduation you'll be commissioned a Navy officer and er~oy the benefits and opponunities offered, such as advanced education in any of t.he Navy's high-tech fields. 
NROTC two-year scholarships are highly competitive. Applicat.ions must be tumed in early in your sophomore year. For more information, see or call: 
LT Dan Cochran 
239-7274 
NAVY ROTC 
You areTomorrow. You are the Navy. 
page 10 The Observer Wednesday, August 30, 1989 
-

Bears' Douglass, Eagles' Solt among steroid suspensions 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-The NFL's first­
ever crackdown on steroids hit 
home Tuesday for 13 players, 
including former Pro Bowl 
guard Ron Solt, who were 
suspended for four games after 
testing positive for the muscle­
enhancing drug. 
The players suspended, three 
of them from the Buffalo Bills, 
were hardly household names. 
Other than the Eagles' Solt, 
who is recuperating from op­
erations on both knees, 
perhaps the best known player 
is Maurice Douglass, a backup 
defensive back for the Chicago 
Bears who spends the off-sea­
son as an exotic dancer. 
Those suspended came from 
just eight of the league's 28 
teams. 
Most seemed to fall into the
1
category defined by U.S. District Judge Thomas Hogan, who in turning down the play­ers' union request to stop the 

Student football ticket information 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame athletic de­partment ticket office has an­nounced procedures fur 1989 season football ticket sales to students. Ticket applications will be in Notre Dame student mailboxes early next week, and Saint Mary's students will re­ceive their applications at reg­istration. 
Any students who do not re­ceive their applications by Thursday, Aug. 31, should get in touch with the ticket office to receive a copy of the applica­tion form. Students who do not have a local (Michiana-area) address should also contact the ticket office for their applica­tions. 
Distribution begins Tuesday, Sept. 5, at the Joyce ACC ticket booth, with seniors getting first shot at 50-yard line seats. This year's prices for the five­game home season are $57.50 for Notre Dame students and $77 for Saint Mary's students. 
Kickoff 
continued from page 12 
The same can not be said of Michigan and its younger play­ers. The Wolverines have to open their season against the national champions. In an evenly-matched contest like Notre Dame-Michigan, a game of experience could make a big difference. 
If Notre Dame defeats Virginia and receives no major injuries, and those are two big ifs, the scheduling of the Kickoff Classic could look like a great idea later in the season. 

Rozelle said he made the an­nouncement so early in the year to give players using steroids time to get the body-building substances out of their systems long before training camp tests. In both 1987 and 1988, six percent of the players had positive steroid tests at camp. 
The players' union on Monday failed to get a court order pre­venting the league from releas­ing the names. It claimed the penalty was actually harsher than for illegal drugs, for which players are suspended only after a second offense. 
The union also claimed that some of the players were inno­cent, suggesting that some players taking medication may have used what the NFL defines as "masking agents" for steroid. Under Rozelle's policy, they are considered evidence of steroid use. 
The NFL said the players have been placed on the "non­football illness" list and must remain away from their teams' training facilities until Sept. 27. If the substances remain in their system after that, they would continue to be sus­pended. 
The league said if a player tests positive again, he would be banned for the rest of the season. 

MARKET OPINION RESEARC 
HIRING TELEPHONE INTERVIEWERS (No Sa PART-TIME AND FULL-TIME POSITIONS 
Qualifications: type 25 WPM, enjoy talking with people, available for evenings and weekend shifts. No research experience needed, computer training included 
$4.25 -$12.00/hr. 
Apply Monday thru Friday 6pm -9 pm 121 S. Niles Ave. rium B 2nd fl. 219-282-2754 
: I 
I I , 1717 E. South Bend ue 
' 

South Bend, IN 46637 
I I I I I I 
suspensions, acknowledged that the crackdown "could be fatal to a marginal player." 
The league, which tested 2,200 players in camp, said an unspecified number of others tested positive but had been cut "for lack of playing ability." 
In addition to Solt and Douglass, those suspended in­cluded two brothers, running back Sean and linebacker Tom Doctor of Buffalo and a third Bill, Linebacker Matt Jaworski; offensive linemen Mike Ariey and Keith Uecker of Green Bay; defensive end Mark Mraz of the Los Angeles Raiders; tight end Vernon Kirk of the Los Angeles Rams; running back Vince 
Amoia and wide receiver Bobby same punishment given players Riley of the New York Jets; and for illegal drug use-a four­

from players proclaiming their innocence and suggesting that the tests may have mistaken medication for either masking agents or steroids. 
But NFL spokesman Joe Browne said: 
"We conducted Olympic-cal­iber testing that takes every­thing into account." 
However, a league statement acknowledged, "We cannot guarantee our testing has de­tected or will detect every steroid user in the NFL." 
The suspensions are the re­sult of a March 21 announce­ment by Commissioner Pete Rozelle who said players using steroids would be handed the 

running back Keith Henderson and nose tackle Rollin Putzier of San Francisco. 
The accuracy of the testing was immediately challenged by the NFL Players Association, which said it had received calls 
I 
I 
I 
game suspension. He also said players would be banned if traces of "masking agents" for steroids turned up in the tests. 
Players received notification of the policy, 10 days later, on March 31. 

All applications must be accompanied by student IDs. 
The windows will be open from 1:30 p.m. to 8 p.m. September 5th through the 8th. Juniors can get their tickets September 6, sophomores, law students and grad students September 7, and freshmen September 8. One student may bring as many as four applica­tions and IDs. Married students may purchase tickets for spouses at the student price, but proof of marriage is required. 
The 1:30 starting time is in­tended to reduce the need for overnight lines, according to Associate Ticket Manager Jim Bell. 
"Camping over is discour­aged," Bell said. "In the morn­ings, we'll be as flexible as we can be as long as the lines are orderly and the area is kept clean. But we don't need the furniture and stuff out all night like we've had in the past." 
Security will be on duty at the 

+
American 
Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 
Joyce ACC during the ticket dis­tribution process. 
!AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY~~ 
li,llll~~ 

Wednesday, August 30, 1989 The Observer 
page 11 
COMICS CROSSWORD 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
ACROSS 28 Quickly 61 A Champion 1 Muslim faith 30 Hippo follower 64American 6 Phi follower 32 Goalies' areas 


Indian's garment 

9 Motivate 38 Escape artists 65Summum bonum
13lts capital is 41 Boss Santiago 42 Gold-watch 
66 Sheltered, in a way14 Risky, difficult recipient 
situation 43 Clobbered, aIa 67 Hopi's cousin 17 Links gem David 68 Tall and thin 18 Cooks too long 44 Kiddie cot 19 "Panama-," 48 Plunk preceder 
DOWN
Porter musical 49 Comic Mort 21 Western f1lms . . 1 Rocks, to a hood 22 Pituitary hormone, 53 Dlstnct 2-NaNa 
for short 54 Manage 
(entertainment 24 Ranch unit 55 Scan again group) 26 Stack role 57 Victoria's prince 3 Arch Oboler 27 "-Boot" 59 Begins to shoot radio series 4 Muslim deity 5 Touch 6 Option 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7 Remains suspended 8 Believer: Suffix 9 Condition 10 Grabs 


11 Brain passages 12 Betsy or Diana 15 Greg Norman is one 16 Scottish resort place 56 U.SAF. pilot's
"Through the hoop, Bob! Through the hoop!" 
34 Dewey or 46 Strike out medal: Abbr. 
20Swabbie Nelson: Abbr. 47 Dr. Jekyll's sa Arab chief 22 Calculator 

35 Purple-flowered hangout23 Frankie of the 88 so Chit
shrub 49 Flower part keys 62 Wander
36 Consumed 50 Climber's 25 Emulate Durer 37 McCarthy's challenge 63 Cathedral town 28Equal wooden sidekick 51 Therefore in England 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
B:l'i, 'tlu'R£ L\JCK.'( rov iOO £X>N1 KNOW ~HA1 IT'S ()()(1 1-\~IJE ro GO 10 l\~t. 1lJ GET \JI' ON -rna SCJ.OOL L1 Kf. I 00. CDlO, OARK t>'ORNINGS ~D 
1-lt-.IJ£ TO C3::J 9Jt-\EP\.ACE '{()J 1-lt-.1£ . THE FARSIDE Gary Larson
\~ 



JF&llll JOO~llll 
JACC August 30 Noon-6:00PM 

Absolutely everything you need for a college room outside of beer! All at student prices (cheap). 
After that, check out: Zeto and the Heat-Ons 5:30PM Fieldhouse Mall 
All of this good stuff is sponsored by the Student Union Board 
L__,__-'--'--'--'--'--'--'~~------------------------------------------------------­


Sports
page 12 

Holtz has his usual dismal outlook 
His defending champs are "not as good as you think" 
Associated PrM8 
EAST RUTHERFORD. N.J-lf Lou Holtz had managed the 1927 Yankees, he probably would have moaned about Babe Huth's strikeouts and convinced writers that the club was head­ing for a last-place finish. So it isn't surprising that the coach of defending national champion Notre Dame is already poor­mouthing his team's chances in 1989. 
wwe're not a top 20 team right now," Holtz said at a news conference Tuesday. wwe're not as good as you think, but we're probably not as bad as I think." 
Actually, Holtz has reason to worry as his team prepares to open the college football season against Virginia in Thursday night's Kickoff Classic at Giants Stadium. 
In the last month, Notre Dame has lost seven players expected to play a significant role on this year's team. One quit, another transferred, two were banished for disciplinary reasons, two couldn't recover from lingering injuries and one was declared academically in­eligible. 

The most damaging depar­tures were All-American linebacker Michael Stonebreaker and running back Tony Brooks, the team's sec­ond-leading rusher last season. Also gone for the season are defensive tackle George Williams, fullback Braxston Banks, defensive end Arnold Ale, linebacker John Foley and offensive tackle Pete Rausch. 
"We've got a completely dif­ferent team than the one we started spring practice with," Holtz said. WWe're awfully thin at a lot of positions and we've got an awful lot of question marks." 
Holtz tried his best to portray the Fighting Irish as under­manned, overrated and, in one case at least, underfed. 
"Our second-string defensive tackle is a true freshman who only weighs 216 pounds," he said. "He's going to be a good one-as soon as he finds the cafeteria." 
A steady diet of Rice is what Notre Dame's opponents will be fed this season. Versatile quar­terback Tony Rice not only threw for 1,176 yards and eight touchdowns last season, but also led the team in rushing with 700 yards. 
wwe've spent a lot of time working on his best plays," Virginia coach George Welsh said. wBut maybe his best plays won't be the same this year." 
Unlike Notre Dame, Virginia is not a traditional football power. But Welsh has led the Cavaliers to five winning sea­sons in the past six years, in­cluding a 7·-4 mark in 1988. 
All but four starters return 
see HOL1Z I page 8 
,-,. -~~ 
.. 
\ ., .-• 
f ""'" 


AP Photo 

The Chicago Cubs overcame a 9-ru~ deficit t~ storm back and defea~ the H~usto.n Astros 1 0-9 in 1 0 i~ni~gs to maintain thier hold on first place tn the Nattonal League East. Dwtght Smtth s~ngled to score the w~nmng run in the bottom of the tenth. 
Cubs rally from nine-run deficit 
Associated Pl'88s 
CHICAGO--Dwight Smith's bases-loaded single in the 10th inning capped the Chicago Cubs' rally from a 9-0 deficit to a 10-9 victory over the Houston Astros Tuesday. 
Smith made his game-winning hit to right field off Dave Smith, 3-4. 
Paul Assenmacher, 2-3, re­lieved to start the 1Oth inning and got the victory. 
Houston built its 9-0 lead on walks, Chicago errors and a grand slam by Rafael Ramirez. 
Ramirez' second career grand slam was the only Houston hit in the fifth inning, when the Astros scored five runs. 
Cubs began their comeback in the sixth when a throwing error by pitcher Mike Portugal and Domingo Ramos' RBI sin­gle provided two runs. In the seventh, Lloyd McClendon hit a two-run homer. 
Cardinals 4, Reds 2 
Joe Magrane got his National League-leading 18th victory Tuesday night as the St. Louis Cardinals beat the Cincinnati Reds 4-2. 
All of the game's runs came in the sixth inning. 

Rookie Jeff Richardson hit a two-run homer off Magrane in the top half before Terry Pendleton's two-run doubled keyed a four-run rally in the Cardinals' sixth. 
Magrane, 18-7, has won 13 of his last 14 starts and tied Oakland's Dave Stewart for most victories in the majors. Magrane gave up eight hits, walked two and struck out three in his league-leading ninth complete game. 
Tim Leary, 9-12, held the Cardinals to two hits for five innings,. 
But in the sixth he hit Willie McGee with d pitch and Milt Thompson and Pedro Guerrero singled for a run. 
Pendleton's double put the Cardinals ahead and Tom Brunansky triple for a 4-2 lead. 
Phillies 6, Giants 1 

Von Hayes hit three home runs and drove in six runs Tuesday night, leading the Philadelphia Phillies over the San Francisco Giants 6-1. 
Hayes hit a solo home run in the first inning, a three-run shot in the fourth and a two­run drive in the ninth. 
Bruce Ruffin , 4-8, ended his five-game losing streak and improved to 2-6 lifetime against San Francisco. He gave up four hits and left after a leadoff walk in the eighth Roger McDowell finished with two-hit relief for his 16th save.. 
Hayes' first two runs came against Don Robinson, 11-9. He connected in the ninth against Craig Lefferts. 
Pirates 5, Braves 4 
Andy VanSlyke drove in two runs, including an RBI double during a three-run first inning first inning Tuesday night that sent the Pittsburgh Pirates over the Atlanta Braves. 5-4. 
Winner Doug Drabek, 11-10, gave up six hits, including two homers by Oddibe McDowell, and four runs in 7 1-3 innings. 
Tom Glavine, 12-8 was the loser. The Pirates twice bunted with good results in the first inning. 
Billy Hatcher led off with a single, Jay Bell got a bunt single and Jeff King was safe on a fielder's choice when the Braves failed to cover third base on his bunt. 
Bobby Bonilla hit a sacrifice fly, R.J. Reynolds singled home a run and Van Slyke hit an RBI 
double. see BASE! page o 


The Observer/File Photo 
Irish head coach Lou Holtz is, as usual, downplaying his team's abilities days before the 1989 Kickoff Classic. In the wake of the losses of five regular players, his pessimism is warranted as the Irish prepare to face the Virginia Cavaliers. 
Making the best of the Kickoff Classic 
If history is any indication, Notre Dame doomed its foot­ball team's chances of repeating a national title before any Irish player donned shoulder pads for spring practice. 
When the University added Thursday's Kickoff Classic to the 1989 schedule last winter, the Irish inherited the Virginia Cavaliers and a seven-year jinx as opponents this season. 
The three previous national champions to play in the Classic, an annual matchup at Giants Stadium since 1983 to open the college football season, have gone on to suffer dis­appointing years. 
Penn State, fresh off its first national championship, was humbled 44-6 by Nebraska in the inaugural Classic. 
A Bernie Kosar-led Miami team defeated Auburn 20-18 in 1984, but ended Jimmy Johnson's debut season with three consecutive losses and an 8-5 record. Brigham Young toyed with Boston College 28-14 in the 1985 matchup, but the Cougars also faded at the end of the year. 
This trend of staggering down the stretch has been in­herent in many other Kickoff Classic teams. An Alabama team featuring Cornelius Bennett, Bobby Humphrey and 
Steve Megargee 
Irish Items 

Mike Shula opened the 1986 season by defeating Ohio State at the Classic, and was considered a national championship contender. The Tide instead lost three games in the second half of the season. 
Perhaps sensing the possible danger ahead, UCLA and Clemson declined offers to play in this year's matchup, leav­ing Virginia as Notre Dame's opponent. 
While the Cavaliers of the Atlantic Coast Conference have improved in the last few seasons under George Welsh, the Irish are understandably prohibitive favorites to return to South Bend undefeated. 
Notre Dame's decision to participate in the Classic still could have its consequences. 
With five of their first six games away from Notre Dame Stadium, the players easily could be tiring as much as past Kickoff Classic teams by the time the Irish end their season at Penn State and Miami. 
And this game will be remembered for all the wrong rea­sons if a key Notre Dame player gets injured Thursday on the Giants Stadium artificial surface and is unable to play in the showdown with Michigan two weeks later. 
Nonetheless, the recent developments involving Notre Dame have made the idea of playing in the Classic seem bet­ter and better. 
The unexpected losses in personnel over the last month have left the Irish suddenly thin in many areas, particularly on defense. It would have been difficult to imagine this team opening the season at Michigan. 
Nobody has to worry about that anymore. The Irish now will enter Michigan Stadium with a game's worth of experi­ence. Newcomers to the lineup like Bob Dahl, Donn Grimm and Scott Kowalkowski will have their first starts behind them. 
see KICKOFF I page 1 0 

