


I '\ (-.. 
. -\ ..: 
HESBURGH LIBRARY 
VOL. XXII, NO. 120 
THE INDEPE 
94 killed in British stadium catastrophe 
Thatcher promises inquiry 
Associated Press Thatcher visited Hillsborough stadium Sunday and promised 
SHEFFIELD, England-a public inquiry into Saturday's Crowds surging against a steel disaster, which turned a soccer anti-riot fence in a packed soc­cup semifinal into a nightmare. cer stadium crushed 94 fans to Then she visited hospitalized death and left at least 200 in­survivors and listened to their jured Saturday in Britain's accounts of Britain's worst worst sports disaster, police sports disaster. said. "We were shouting out to 
Most of the dead, some of (the police) to get us out and whom were trampled after the they just couldn't move us," 33­fence collapsed, were teen­year-old John Davis told her. agers and children, ambulance "It was just sheer bedlam. It official Michael Boyce said. was every man for himself. 
The crush appeared to be the There were people screaming result of overcrowding. and screaming." Reports said hundreds of fans Seventeen-year-old Wayne without tickets poured through Adams said he was about five a turnstyle gate behind one of · rows from the front of the the goals, crushing those in crowd. "I realized it was front. serious when I saw one of the 
"It seemed as if it was four lasses standing near me just deep in dead bodies with people turn blue in the face. She went climbing over them," said a down. She was dead. That was survivor, 22-year-old Stuart it," he said. McGeah. Police defended the decision 
In the wake of the tragedy, to open 16-foot-wide steel gates law makers Sunday demanded outside the stadium just as the 
AP Photo

changes in stadium designs, in­match between the Liverpool cluding a ban on anti-riot and Nottingham Fo~st teams Liverpool fans climb up the terraces at Hillsborough so«:;cer stadium in Sheffield Saturday, when 94 people fences. died in a crush at the England Football Association semi-final between Liverpool and Nottingham Forest. 
Prime Minister Margaret see CROWD I page 4 Dozens more were reported injured, many seriously. 

200 attend divestment rally Hiler speaks at ND 
By JOHN ZALLER celebration for everyone who is ments in South Africa." Staff Reporter in step. We know why we're "This was a very important 
about ethics report
here tonight," said John-Paul event," said freshman Eric 

Nearly 200 people danced and Checkett, a member of the Hurtt, "it really raised aware­sang to the sounds of Allen Anti-Apartheid Network and ness. Hopefully people left here By FLORENTINE HOELKER Faye and the McNeils on the organizer of the celebration. with a little more knowledge Senior Staff Reporter steps of the Administration Checkett stood in front of a ban­about what is really going on Building as the Notre Dame ner reading "Divest For in South Africa." Speaker of the House Jim Anti-Apartheid Network Jusice" and lead the crowd in "This was a celebration," Wright is "not taking very capped off its Apartheid chants and songs at the end of said Mike Penman, also a lightly" his predicament Awareness week. the celebration. member of the Network, "we concerning the investiga­
The event was billed as a "I am pleased with the tur­are happy we have the right tions of his alleged violations celebration for those who are nout," Checkett said later, "it ideas about South Africa. It of House ethics, according to aware that divestment from shows that people are aware was a great chance for people Congressman John Hiler. South Africa is the only way to that divestment is the answer. who have the right ideas to get Hiler, who spoke on abolish Apartheid. I think it is a disgrace that the campus Saturday, said that 
"This is a concert and University still has invest-see RALLY I page 4 Wright is basing his defense on his belief that he has does nothing wrong. Wright is currently under investiga­tion by the House Ethics Speaker of the House." Committee for various Hiler said that the matter violations of House ethics concerning Wright is clearly rules. of great importance. "This 
"At the end of the inves­is serious politics, since tigations," said Hiler, never in 200 years has a "there are two possibilities. speaker stepped down," Jim Wright may either sur­Hiler said. vive politically, or he may be forced to step down as see HILER I paQe 3 
Water balloon breaks window at Theodore's 
By KELLEY TUTHILL said. One member of the band suffered from a cut on his left hand while another was cut on 
A water balloon launched the arm. Both refused medical outside of Theodore's in LaFor­attention, said Johnson. tune Student Center Friday ni~ht shattered a window and According to Johnson, the caused minor injuries in two window was broken and secur­band members, according to ity was notified at 11:15 p.m. 
Senior Staff Reporter 

Phil Johnson, assistant director Friday. No damage to equip­of Security. ment was reported. 
The band was unable to con­No other injuries were re­tinue performing as two band ported and Security will do a members reported slight cuts follow-up investigation of the 
The Obsefver I Heleni Korwek 

from broken glass, Johnson incident.
• 





page 2 The Observer Monday, April 17, 1989 
WORLD BRIEFS 
Two more bodies were discovered Sunday buried on a collective farm two miles south of a ranch where 13 victims of a cult of human sacrifice were found last week. Investigators said it was possible the victims found on the collective farm were killed by the same cult suspected of performing human sacrifices on the 13 discovered at Rancho Santa Elena, about 20 miles west of Matamoros, Mexico. Acting on a tip from some children, a 77-year-old man led·police to the common grave in a clearing in an orchard on the farm. The children had told the man, Hildago Castillo, that they had seen some people burying a body in an orchard last October. Castillo's son, Moises, 52, had disappeared last May. Castillo had discounted the children's tale until the 13 bodies were dug up. 
The Afrikaner de Klerk brothers disagree sharply on politics, but their dispute is unique. F.W. de Klerk is expected to be the next president of South Africa, and his brother helps lead the anti-apartheid opposition. F.W. is head of the governing National Party and is the odds-on favorite to succeed President 
P.W. Botha after elections to be held by September. Willem de Klerk is chief policy adviser to the new Democratic Party, which seeks to end the Nationalists' policy of apartheid and give voting rights to the black majority. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
Four winners in the Illinois lottery will have to be content with $17.25 million apiece as four tickets sold matched all six numbers in the world's biggest-ever lottery jackpot of $69 million. None of the winners had stepped forward by midday Sunday, but Lottery Director Sharon Sharp said two of them bought their tickets in the Chicago area, one in west-central Illinois and one in southern Illinois. "For all of you who said it's easier to be struck by lightning than to win the Lotto, four people were struck last night and they struck gold," Ms. Sharp said at a news con­ference. The four winning buyers will each receive at least $17.25 million before taxes, paid out over the next 20 years, she said. The total may rise after final sales figures are tallied Monday, she said. 
House Speaker Jim Wright said Sunday he is eager to defend himself against allegations of ethics violations, asking that a hearing be held within hours after the release of a formal ethics committee report. CBS news reported Sunday night that the ethics report on Monday morning would charge Wright with five counts including 69 instances of alleged ethical wrongdoing. The network said the charges would accuse him of converting speaking fees to bulk purchases of his book in an effort to avoid limits on honoraria, and of receiving unreported gifts from busi­ness associate George Mallick. CBS said the report would say the gifts were tainted because Mallick had a business interest in influencing legislation. 
INDIANA BRIEFS 
The body of a male juvenile was found Sunday in the St. Joseph's River, 300 feet south of the State Street bridge in Fort Wayne, the Department of Natural Resources said. A canoeist spotted the body lying in 4 and a half feet of water at 5:17p.m., said DNR dispatcher Melinda Ross. "It appeared the body had been in the water for several months," Ross said. The badly decomposed body of the white male was fully clothed. The juvenile's parents were notified after identification was dis­covered on the body, however, they were unable to make a com­plete identification, Ross said. Ross said dental records would be used to confirm the identification. 
WEATHER 


Soggy reality A 90 percent chance of thundershowers today. Cooler with the high near 60. Mostly cloudy tonight with a 40 percent chance of showers. Low 35 to 40. Partly sunny and cooler tomorrow with a high in the mid 50s. 
ALMANAC 
On April 17: e In 1521: Martin Luther went before the Diet of Worms to face 
charges stemming from his religious writings. e In 1861 : The Virginia State 
Convention voted to secede from the 
Union. e In 1961: About 1,500 CIA­trained Cuban exiles launched the disastrous Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba in an attempt to overthrow the government of Fidel Castro. 
e In 1969: Sirhan Sirhan was convicted of assassinating Sen. Robert Kennedy. 
• Ten Years Ago: A federal safety panel recommended that a broad range of new instruments be installed on more than half the nation's nuclear reactors. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closlnp for Frkllly, April f4, 1en 

Dow .Jones 
Industrial Average 
+41.06 
Cloll8d at 2337.06 
S&P 500 i)-4.96 to 301.36 
Currency exchange 
Mark ..0. .0087 to 1.8630 OM I $ Yen ..()-.22 to 131.88¥ I$ 
Precious Metals Gold f-$4.05 to $386.20 1oz. Sliver ..()-6.5¢ to $5.8051 oz. 
Source: The Detroit News 
Information compoled from Observer wores and Observer staH reports. 



Campus town is an improbable dream 

Notre Dame's social life is lacking. Heard that before? This space is regularly used to complain about the social alternatives avail­able at this school. 
This time, I want to address one aspect of this campus that, if improvements are made, would not only dramatically improve the social life on campus, but also would help the admin­istration solve some of its concerns. 
This weekend, I visited two other midwestern universities, Illinois and Northwestern. These are two schools which have a student body similar to our own, both socially and academi­cally. Their campuses, however, differed from ours in many ways. The one that was most noticible was the existence of a campus town area of the city (Champaign and Evanston, Ill. respectively). 
Their campus towns were a strip of bookstores, movie theatres, bars, drug stores, copy centers, restaurants, grocery stores and other retail outlets of various sorts. All of these businesses depended almost solely upon student business. 
These stores, restaurants and bars, all privately owned and controlled, catered to the needs of the students of those universities. These retail establishments accepted students checks, provided goods and services that the students needed and wanted, and were located in an area accessible to students. 
The advantages of this setup are obvious: students are able to reach stores, bars and res­taurants without the need to drive ten or fifteen minutes. The stores benefit from the relatively free-spending students. 
But, of course, Notre Dame does not have a campus town. , 
There are several reasons for this. Most im­portant among these is the physical layout of the campus. The student residences are located in the midst of University-owned land. Students would be unwilling or unable to walk the dis­tances required if such a campus town existed on, for example, Angela or Douglas Roads. As a result, student-oriented businesses have been unwilling to locate near the campus. 
A solution to this problem is relatively ob­vious, but requires a great deal of effort and desire on the part of the administration. 
OF INTEREST 

Japanese Relocation During WWII 
"The United States Largest Wartime Mistake" involving the suspension of habeas corpus and detention without a trial. Two short films fol­lowed by a discussion with Francis Kobayashi, a Japanese American detained by the US Gov­ernment along with 110,000 others because of their heritage. 7pm in the ETS Theater of the Center for Continuing Education. 
All Clubs and Organizations: this is the last week to spend your club money for the 1988-89 school year. All funding requests must be accompanied by receipts that verify expen­ditures as well as a letter from your advisor. Anyone with questions should call the Student Body Treasurer's Office at 239-7417 between 12­4 pm daily. 
Senior Formal Bids will be mailed beginning today. Off-campus students must pick up their bids in Room 126 Howard Hall before Thursday. Call 283-2609 with questions. 
'We are unlikely ever to see a campus town at NO.' 
Matt Gallagher Exec. News Editor 
The University would have to sell off a tract of land, most likely to a developer who could then create a campus town. A University-owned campus town would never work. First, retailers would be unwilling to establish a business in an area guided by University regulations, and sub­ject to the whims of the administrations. Granted, the administration in place when this area is opened may allow bars there, but who is to say what the next administration might do? 
Second, a University-owned campus town would prohibit the establishment of either bars or _ restaurants. Restaurants would be prohibited because of University Food Service's monopoly on selling food on campus, and independently-owned bars would be prohibited by the alcohol policy. 
The University obviously would object to the loss of control the establishment of independently-owned bars would represent. A situation similar to the current Senior Bar would not work. The independent businessmen would never be willing to submit to the kind of control the University exercises over the Senior Bar. 
Needless to say, based on the past track records of Notre Dame administrations, we are unlikely ever to see a campus town at ND. This is unfortunate. A privately-owned campus town would prevent needless tragedies such as deaths due to drunk driving, while at the same time improving social life on campus. 
Matt Gallagher is a junior majoring in Govern­ment and PPE. He serves as executive news editor at the Observer. 
Freshmen interested in participating in next year's Student Government should pick up an application on the second floor of La Fortune Student Center. Applications are due Wed., April19. 
ISO Board Member Applications are available at the International Student Organi­zational office in the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest announces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lecture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submitted materi­als and determine if and where announcements will be published. -The Observer 

Monday's Staff 

Detllgn Editor ........................... Chris l.abaree 
TypeMtt.-·············-·············-Andrew Schlidt ...... Editor···············-····-····-···· Greg Lucas Copy Editor .. -···-············ ... ········· Sarah Voigt
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Sports Copy Editor·······-···-·· Marty Strasen VIewpoint Copy Editor ·····-·-··· Kelly Golden
(219) 239-7471 VIewpoint L..yout -··················· Dave Bruner 
ACCMII Editor ..............••... -.. Robyn Simmons Accent Copy Editor ............... Paige Smoron ACCMII Dnlg-....................... Allison Cocks 
NO 08y Editor···············---·········· Katie Gugle
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday throOJgh Friday except 
............................................. ,.Jennffer Richards during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the 
SMC 08y Editor··-·············· Rozel Gatmaitan University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur· 
Photognopl>er ················-·-····· Heleni Korwek chased lor $40 per year (525 per semester) by writing The Observer. Ada DMJgnera ·-····-·-········ Tammy Martinez 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights 
...................................................... Mindy Breen . ............................. _.................... Meg Callahan 
are reserved. 

....................~ .................................. Val Ploletto 


Monday, April 17, 1989 The Observer page 3 
ANNUAL MIDWEST INFORMATION PROCESSING 'md BUSINESS EXPOSITION held at the CENTURY CENTER South Bend, Indiana 

' f
" 
APPhoto 

Mexican workers pull a thirteenth body from a crude grave discovered at a ranch near Matamoros, Mexico, Thursday. Authorities say the killings are linked to black magic. 
Body discovered 

Cab Driver allegedly strikes N D student early Sunday 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Senior Staff Reporter 
A Notre Dame student was assaulted by a taxicab driver on Saturday morning near Stepan basketball courts. 
According to the report that the student filed with Security, the student saw a taxicab try to exit campus at the east gate near Juniper Road and Stepan Center at 2:30 am, said Phil Johnson, assistant director of Security. The east gate was closed and the cab driver was cussing about the gate, the stu­dent told Security. 


The student approached the cab driver and made a com­ment to the man about his use of foul words, said Johnson. Ac­cording to the student the cab driver struck the student after hearing his comments. 
The student sustained minor injuries and was treated and released from St. Joseph Hospi­tal emergency room, said Johnson. 
The student summoned Se­curity and the cab driver im­mediately drove away from the scene and left University prop­erty, said Johnson. 
The case will be further in­vestigated, said Johnson. 

Diplomat among 17 killed in Beirut Sun. 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT-Spain's ambassa­dor to Lebanon and at least 16 other people were killed Sun­day in fierce artillery ex­changes between Christians and an alliance of Syrian and Moslem gunners, police said. 
Ambassador Pedro Manuel de Aristegui, 61, died while un­dergoing surgery to remove shrapnel fragments that hit his head when an artillery shell blasted his villa in the christian suburb of Hadath east of Beirut, police reported. 
Police said his Lebanese father-in-law, poet Tewfic Youssef Awwad; and Awwad's other daughter, Samia, were killed when the shell exploded. 
The envoy's Lebanese wife, Jomana Awwad, was seriously wounded and his 2-year-old son Diego suffered unspecified in-

Hiler 
continued from page 1 
Hiler said that the issuf' of Wright violating rules is such a serious concern because the Speaker is the second in line to the office of the presidency. Since he is so close to the office, in the event of an accident it is important that the Speaker's character be upright, said Hiler. 
Hiler also discussed the beginnings of the Bush admin­istration. 
Bush's agenda has seemed juries, police reported. Earlier reports said Ms. Awwad was killed. De Aristegui's !-year­old daughter, Alexandra, es­caped unhurt. 
De Aristegui had served in Lebanon since June 1984. Police said the shell that killed him was fired from a Syrian­controlled area in west Beirut. They did not specify who fired it. But the Christian-run radio stations said it was a Syrian ar­tillery unit on a hill above the capital. 
Police said at least 17 people died in the ferocious 18-hour blitz that raged from dusk Sat­urday to mid-afternoon Sun­day. They said at least 90 people were wounded. 
That raised the casualty toll from 40 days of fighting to at least 234 killed and 847 wounded. 
lackluster because he faces dif­ferent challenges than those Reagan faced, said Hiler. In­flation is down, the economy continues to grow, and foreign policy is different, so Bush is "working on different critical needs" of the nation, Hiler said. 
Among these are the current drug problem, the S&L crisis, and improving education. Hiler said that Bush is working on all these issues and that "the criticism he's taken in not presenting a formidable agenda is unfair." In closing, Hiler thanked students for their involvement in the fall elec­tions. 


THEOLOGY AT SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE FALL 1989 ENRICHING ELECTIVES 
RLST 335 THOMAS MERTON E:. Malits W 6:30-9:00 RLST 342 AMERICAN CATHOLIC CULTURES. Mize TI 1:15-2:30 RLST 380 WORLD RELIGIONS T. Martin TT 2:45-4:00 
NO students fulfill their second requirement in theology by taking any RLST course from 201-299. They fulfill their first requirement by taking RLST 200 at Saint Mary's College. For times of courses, see schedule of courses. 
NO Registration for SMC Theology Courses at NO Theology Dept. ONLY 
NO Seniors (89-90) Wed., April 19 7:00-8:30 pm only NO Juniors (89-90) Thurs., April 20 7:00-8:30 pm only NO Sophomores (89-90) Tues., April 25 7:Q0-8:30 pm only 
All NO pre-registrations: Room 340041 O'Shaughnessy 
Sponsored by the MICHIANA CHAPTER DATA PROCESSING MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION 
Shows dates: April 18th and 19th, 1989 Show hours: April 18th 1Oam -7pm April 19th 1Oam -6pm Seminars: Both days 1Oam -5pm are free 
Exposition: Admission by ticket Non-ticket holders: Adults $3.00 Students $1.00 
DPMA provides educa~• of Information Processing and related business products to its members and to the community 
Over 100 Booths of Business Information 
page 4 The Observer Monday, April 17, 1989 
5 tribes attend Pow Wow at NO 
By Janice O'Leary News Staff 

The first Native American Pow Wow, attended by five dif­ferent tribes, took place this Sunday in Stepan Center. 
The Miami, the Ottawa, the Sioux, and the Lakota tribes all came from the midwest, while the Pottowatomie tribe represents the South Bend area. 
The Pow Wow was arranged by the Native American Asso­ciation of Notre Dame (NASAND). NASAND was started three years ago and has been planning this Pow Wow for the past two years. Cur­rently, there are a total of 15 active members, all Native Americans from tribes across the country. 
The Pow Wow featured inter­tribal dances including the "Two-Step," the "Round 


Crowd 
continued from page 1 
began. Last-minute arrivals then poured into a central standing-room-only section, pressing those already inside against the steel mesh fence. 
The sturdy 10-foot-high fence, angled in at the top to stop people from scaling it, prevented them from escaping over the top to the field. Some were crushed to death. others suffocated or were trampled trying to fight their way out of the crowd or when the barrier finally collapsed. 
Dance," and the Eagle Feather Honor Song. In the latter, the veteran warriors present Eagle feathers to younger members of the tribe. You can only receive the feathers by having them awarded to you. This is one of the highest honors an Indian can receive. 
The dances are family­oriented and both the children and the elders play a very im­portant role in the Native American society. This is "very different from the Amer­ican society where the children are kept quiet," according to Mary Feliz, chairman of the Pow Wow. 
The purpose of the event was to make the Notre Dame com­munity "open their eyes to something that was here before them," said Elizabeth Bird, president of the organization. 
The Pow Wow was ':here for 

Rally 
continued from page 1 

together." "I think the Uni­versity sticking to the Sullivan Principles is made ridiculous by the fact that Sullivan aban­doned them himself," said Hurtt, referring to the set of guidelines prepared by the Rev. Leon Sullivan aimed at breaking down apartheid through "constructive invest­ment." Last year Sullivan reversed his position. 
Others expressed the belief that total divestment is not the answer to a_partheid. 
the Notre Dame students. It was our gift to them. We wanted to show them who we are," added Ms. Feliz. "It was something that needed to be done." 
The dancers performed in a ring with the drum at the cen­ter of it. The drum consisted of 5 different drums and the sing­ers representing different tribes. 
Also present were vendors selling turquoise jewelry, moc­casins, and various crafts. The wares, like the traditional dresses or costumes, are all fashioned from things found to exist in nature. 
The event was sponsored by 10 campus organizations in ad­dition to NASAND. University Food Services helped with a concession stand for both the participants and the audience. 
"We're all struggling to do the moral thing and there is much debate about what that is," said Associate Provost Oliver Williams, "Divestment isn't the answer, there is no quick fix for the problem. I don't think the great majority of blacks want U.S companies to pull out," added Williams. 
"The situation in South Africa is very complex," said Professor of Chemical Engine­ering James Carberry, "you can't solve complex problems with simple solutions. Selective investment is the answer, we have to invest on our terms. We invest in who follow 


The Observer I Heleni Ko1W8k
Basking in the sun 
Saint Mary's students relax in the front of Regina Hall as they enjoy the beautiful seventy degree weather on Sunday. The rare sunshine this weekend enticed many students outside and away from their books. 
the Sullivan principles," said shoddy and embarrassed," Carberry, referring to the Uni­said Peter Walshe, director of versity's $400 million in invest-African Studies and a divest­ments in South Mrica. ment advocate. "It is finally 
"I don't see any chance for obvious, after a long struggle, the two sides (for and against that strong economic sanctions divestment) to come to a com­are the answer." promise because we have com­pletely different ideas about With such a stalemate in how to solve the problem," said opinions, the future course of Checkett. Notre Dame investment in 
"The Administration looks South Mrica is very unclear. 
~----------------------------~ 

SCOTT HERMAN IS 21! 









r---------------~ 
And 
FULLY FURNISHED 
EXECUTIVE SUITES 
ELEGANT & SPACIQUS 1 , 2 and 3 bedroom apartments 

Beautifully set on the Mom and Dad 
St. Joseph River 5 minutes from Notre Dame Campus 


An Invitation 
1671 Riverside Dr. @ 


to find out what the 
CALL 233-2212 ~ 

Gender Studies 
PUT YOUR 


Concentration
LINGUISTIC SKILLS ON THE LINE. 

is all about 
If you're a college graduate with a 
degree in foreign languages, 
here's your chance to "talk" 
yourself into a great career 

Come one! 
opportunity. The. U.S. Army is 
seeking linguistics, both male and 
female. If you successfuly 


Come all! 
complete training, you'll be putting your experience to work while earning a good salary to start, with good opportunities for quick 

A Reception: Snite Museum Courtyard 
advancement, plus food, lodging, 


Date: Tuesday, April 18 
medical and dental care. It's an 


Tinae: 5:00 p.m.
opportunM¥thatcou~ lead to several civilian career possibilities, and give you a real edge on life. 


Refreshments
SGT Robert Hackley 234-4187 


Current members of
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN 


Concentration 
BE. 


to share their views. 

YOU CAN USE YOUR REAL I.D. NOW! from: JIM AND RON 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents The Power and the Glory by Dennis Cannan and Pierre Bost Adapted from the novel by Graham Greene 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
Setting and Lighting designed by Willard Neuert Costumes designed by Richard E. Donnelly 
Washington Hall 
Wednesday, April19-8:10pm Thursday, April20-8:10pm Friday, April21-8:10pm Saturday, April 22-8:10pm Sunday, April 23-3:10pm 
Main Floor $6, Balcony $5 *Students/Senior Citizens $4 *(Wed., Thurs.. Sun. only) 
Tickets are available at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office Weekdays, 12:15pm to 6pm 

MasterCard !Visa orders call 239-5957 







Viewpoint
Monday, April 17, 1989 page 5 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 

1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-chief 

Chris DonnellyManaging Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor ..•. Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager .......••••. Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor ................. Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager .•..... Shannon Roach Sports Editor .......••............. Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........••• Alison Cocks Accent Editor .....•.....•......•••..••. John Blasi Systems Manager •..•...•..... Mark Derwent Photo Editor ......•••.•.............•... Eric Bailey OTS Dlrector........•...•...... Angela Bellanca Controller.........••.•••...........•• Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper publisned by the students of the Uni· vers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pohc1es of the adm1n1strat1on of either mst1tu!Jon. The news is reported as accurately and ObJeCtively as poss1ble. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the follow1ng: Ed1tor-1n·Ch1ef_, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Ed1tor. Sports Ed1tor, Accent Ed1tor, Photo Ed1tor. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varymg opinions on campus, through 
letters. IS encouraged. 
LETTERS 
Gender studies
Should Martin Sheen speak on politics? 
builds concern 
Dear Editor:
Actor's speech promotes intellectual awareness among students An intensely exciting pro­gram of discussion, critique, Dear Editor: part of the American Films and and a rethinking of our own so­
feel that Mr. Sheen's presence tion, it is not my position to sup­
I am writing on behalf of the American Values Week. The decisively demonstrates the port Mr. Sheen's comments. cial identities has just finished Student Union Board in purpose behind this undertak­power of those within the film The insinuation of SUB's poli­its first year of existence at response to a letter to the editor ing was to show how the values industry to articulate the tical or social leanings (in Mr. Notre Dame--the gender by Jeremy Mayernik on April of American society are values of the society. Mayernik's comment about studies concentration. Leaving 11th. In essence, Mr. Mayernik reflected in the film industry. In response to the question of SUB not giving money to a few disciplines untouched claimed that Martin Sheen had Unfortunately, one of the main Mr. Sheen's honorarium, it is right-wing group) is simply un­(courses are offered in litera­
no right to speak on issues of components of the week, a not SUB policy to dictate where founded. We do not pursue any ture, theology, sociology, gov­
social justice, or "on politics." panel discussion with Gene Sis­that honorarium is to be spent. political or social agenda; the ernment, history, etc.), gender He claims that Mr. Sheen is kel and some members of the Every speaker we bring to mission of the Ideas and Issues studies provides an interdis­
''using his popularity to further faculty had to be canceled due campus requests a speaking Commission of SUB is to ciplinary area for the construc­
the movements of the various to the death of Mr. Siskel's fa­fee. In fact, Mr. Sheen re­promote intellectual aware­tive questioning of the many groups and causes he sup­ther. However, Mr. Sheen's quested a very low ness on campus by bringing in aspects our lives, personally ports." Another point made by contribution to the week was honorarium, in comparison to speakers of various political, and socially, that have been left Mr. Mayernik was that he essential. He is an example of some of the other speakers we social, or religious persua­unquestioned. 
found it "very dismaying that an individual within the film in­have invited. Mr. Sheen's deci­sions. I hope_ this letter clears As the first graduates with the sponsor of the lecture was dustry who feels that his posi­sion to donate his honorarium up any misconceptions con­this concentration, we can at­forced to donate to the charity tion as a popular figure gives to a charity only seems to rein­cerning Mr. Sheen's appear­test to the fact that a personal of Sheen's choice." him not only the right, but the force his commitment to the ance on campus. awareness broadens and 
Martin Sheen was invited to responsibility, to voice his con­values he represents. Anthony Lang deepens as contemporary is­Notre Dame by the Center for cerns on social justice issues. Finally, as a member of a Student Union Board sues, academic paradigms, Social Concerns and SUB as We, as soonsors of the week, non-political student organiza-April12, 1989 and methods of social change 
What about other actors in politics? 
Dear Editor: 
In response to the letter printed on Aprilll, 1989 regard­ing Martin Sheen's ineptitude as a political speaker, I have one question. If actors are un­qualified to be involved in po­litical issues solely because of their star status, then explain the overall approval of the per­
formance of Ronald Reagan. 
Amy Meyer Walsh Hall April13, 1989 

Have something to say? The Viewpoint page depends on commentaries from its readers. Write down your thoughts and send them to Viewpoint, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

DOONESBURY 
AS I tt!A5 TUUN6 YaR 
BOSS, Mll<b, IUHATtut'R& 
taJKJNG FOR IS A NEll./ 
mNTCAMPAIGN A/Mel? ATTI-l& N6IAI SMOI</3R. ! 
--~1 
TH&S/3 YOUNG ff30Pt£ ffOtV AR/3 7H& FU7VR& A'lVV"ff. 
OF THe 7DB.Aaf) ~~ ' 
IN[}(}5Tl<Y! IU& M/1</J. ARE HAW: 7V KEeP YOU UP 70 R/fAOIING lHIJMI 7HI5 ON&~ 
are confronted from perspec­tives centered around gender.Any individual has right to express Who is doing the confronting? Women and men who realize
political views to better the world the often subtle yet powerful position gender plays within Dear Editor: hands of the politicians and so­our lives have proven that it is I would like to comment on called experts is lazy and dan­possible to reinterpret intel­the derogatory letter written gerous. You don't have to be a ligently without irrational at­about Martin Sheen and his po­politician to know that apar­tacks against the "other" sex-­litical lecture (The Observer, theid must be abolished, illegal to grow with an ego still intact. April 11). I did not hear Sheen dumping of toxic waste is Rather than describe spe­speak nor do I know the content wrong, discrimination is cific requirements for this five­of his lecture, but that is totally wrong, etc. . . Every citizen course concentration, we irrelevant to the point I would has the right to express his or would simply like to extend an like to make. Any individual her opinion in an attempt to invitation to all students who has the right to express his or better the world. If we just sat are not only open to self­her political views, and that in­back and left everything up to enrichment, political aware­cludes Martin Sheen. The per­the politicians, Congressmen ness, and discussion, but will­son who wrote the letter about would vote themselves million­ing to act upon these desires-­Sheen says, "What could pos­dollar salaries and laugh all the gender studies is for you. sibly give him authority on way to the bank. Ann E. Biddlecom politics?" Many people hold Catherine Francis 
Kenneth Matlusky
this myopic view, and it really Jane Heisel 
Off-campus
disturbs me. Barbara Sachar 
Aprilll, 1989
Placing everything in the April 13, 1989 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
UM... THIS MUST B/3 
()VIJ OF YOUR Pf31i!/OPIC­~~OFMYOfMAC.TeR, RIGHT, 51R'? "'. 
'It's okay to be conservative, but for God's sake, not when you're young.' 
Daniel Woods 



Accent
page 6 Monday, April 17, 1989 

Cavanaugh and Lewis defend last year's titles 
After such an enthusiastic response in only its third year, the Fisher Regatta promises to be a popular tradition for years to come. 
skinnier, and faster," said
JANICE ARCHER 
crewman Mike Schween. 
accent writer 

T 
Cavanaugh had a serious he third annual challenger in Fisher Hall's Fisher. Regatta was first Green Seaman boat. This a rousmg success vessel, made from sheet this Saturday. En­metal and crafted into a 
joying beautiful canoe, beat Cavanaugh's time 
spring weather, teams from in the first heat by 30 various dorms took to St. seconds. Unfortunately, al­Mary's Lake to test their though it wanted to recapturehomemade boat racing skills. the title it won in the Regat­Mter about two and a half ta's first year, Fisher's cap­hours, last year's defending tain had a Bookstore Basket­
champions were victorious ball game. No one else was again, and the most original sure how to guide the boat, boat carried a well-fed crew and the craft went off course for the second year in a row. in the semi-final against 
St. Edward Hall's Cavanaugh and Zahm Hall. Firebrewed Warrior, the most One of the more amusingoriginal craft, had a Viking events of the afternoon oc­motif this year. The crew was curred when the second of dressed in traditional Viking Fisher's two boats sank. The 
costumes, complete with boat, constructed from two horned helmets modeled after fiberglass bathtubs joined by those in the comic strip a wooden board, made it only Hagar the Horrible. The boat 20 feet from shore before dis­did not complete its first aster struck. The vessel be­heat, opting instead to remain came unbalanced when two 
stationary in the middle of rowers leaned too far to one the lake, cooking hot dogs side. Mter that, water started and hamburgers on the grill pouring in, and the boat took 
aboard the Warrior. The crew only about four seconds to remained there, barbecuing fully submerge. A crew mem­for most of the afternoon. ber, A.C. Dumaual, lamented 
Cavanaugh 2 successfully that their carefully built vehi­
defended its title as the men's cle was now "part of the fastest boat. Cavanaugh Hall graveyard of ships at the bot­joined Lewis Hall, which tom of St. Mary's Lake." 
again won women's fastest, When the afternoon's races on the list of repeat winners. and cookout ended, not only The men's final included were all the winners excited, Cavanaugh's A and B boats, but all the spectators and and the four-mao B boat participants had enjoyed emerged victorious. It was a themselves as well. Mter canoe made of wood, covered such an enthusiastic response with plastic, and powered in only its third year, the Fis­with rented oars. The craft her Regatta promises to be a was a replica of last year's popular tradition for years to winner, but only "lighter, come. 

Keenan and Howard's crafts race toward the finish line, while crew members aboard St. Edward's Firebrewed Warrior chose not to finish but, instead, to enjoy the day on St. Mary's Lake, barbecuing and tossing water balloons at spectators. 
The Observer/Stacy St. Germaine 

Monday, April 17, 1989 The Observer page 7 

Cubs· win 7th straight; Weiss propels Oakland 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA--Rick Sutcliffe won his third straight game and drove in two runs with a bases-loaded single as the Chicago Cubs beat the Philadel­phia Phillies 5-3 Sunday for their seventh straight victory. 
Sutcliffe, 3-0, allowed six hits, struck out four and walked five in 81-3 innings and took a 5-1 lead into the ninth. 
Mitch Williams came on after Sutcliffe walked two. He surrendered RBI singles to Tommy Herr and Chris James before retiring Mike Schmidt on a fly to right with two men on for his sixth save in six opportunities. 
Ryne Sandberg led off the fifth with a single off Floyd Youmans, 0-2, and Mark Grace singled one out later. Vance Law doubledjn Sandberg and, after an intentional walk to Andre Daw­son and Joe Girardi's foul pop-up, Sutcliffe singled to left for two more runs. 
A's 3, Chisox 2 
CHICAGO--Walt Weiss, returning to the lineup after missing three starts be­cause of the flu, singled in the tie­breaking run in the ninth inning Sunday as the Oakland Athletics beat the Chicago White Sox 3-2. 
Terry Steinbach singled with one out in the ninth and pinch-runner Lance Blankenship went to third on a single by Stan Javier before Weiss greeted reliever Donn Pall with a run-scoring single to right. 
Reds 5, Padres 0 
SAN DIEGO--Herm Winningham and Jeff Reed hit consecutive homers in a five-run first inning and Rick Mah­ler pitched his first shutout in more than two years as the Cincinnati Reds beat the San Diego Padres 5-0 Sunday. 
The Reds battered Ed Whitson, 2-1, for five hits in the opening inning. 
Angels 10, Mariners 0 

SEATTLE--Mark McLemore had three hits, including a two-run single, Bill Schroeder homered and Bert Blyleven pitched a four-hit shut as the California Angels beat the Seattle Mariners 10-0 Sunday. 
Blyleven, 2-1, allowed four hits, struck out six and walked none. 
McLemore's doubled in a three-run fifth off Mike Campbell, 0-2 and he sin­gled home two more runs in a two-run eighth. Devon White singled home two runs in the fifth, in which all three runs were unearned because of Jim Pres­ley's throwing error. 
Claudell Washington singled home the first run in the first inning and Schroeder homered in the second. 
Braves 7, Giants 2 
Giants 6, Braves 1 

SAN FRANCISCO--Kevin Mitchell drove in three runs with a pair of doubles, leading the San Francisco Giants to a 6-1 victory over the Atlanta Braves on Sunday for a doubleheader split. 
The Braves tied the score in the third inning on Bruce Benedict's single and Lonnie Smith's two-out double. The Giants took the lead for good with three runs in the bottom of the inning . 
Twins 9, Yanks 4 

NEW YORK--Gary Gaetti drove in six runs with two homers and a single, leading Allan Anderson and the Min­nesota Twins over the New York Yankees 9-4 Sunday. 
Gaetti tied his career high with six run batted in. He hit a three-run homer in the third inning, singled home a run in the fifth and hit a two-run shot in the seventh. 
Anderson, 3-0, gave up one earned run on seven hits in seven innings. He struck out two and walked one. 
Jays 15, Royals 8 
TORONTO--Kelly Gruber became 
the first' Toronto player ever to hit for 
the cycle and drove in six runs as the 
Blue Jays beat the Kansas City Royals 
15-8 on Sunday. 

Gruber homered in the first, doubled 
in the second, tripled in the seventh and 
singled in the eighth as he went 4-for-6 
with four runs scored. 

Expos 5, Pirates 4 
PITTSBURGH--Nelson Santovenia 
singled in the tying run in the eighth 
inning, then doubled and scored the 
winning run in the 11th as the Montreal 
Expos beat the Pittsburgh Pirates 5-4 
Sunday. 

Joe Hesketh, 2-0, pitched two shutout innings to pick up the win. Tim Burke pitched the 11th for the save. 
With the score tied 4-4, Santovenia doubled off the top of the left field wall .. to lead off the 11th. He moved to third on Damaso Garcia's groundout and scored on pinch-hitter Hubie Brooks' sacrifice fly off reliever Jeff Robinson, 1-2. 
Cards 5, Mets 3 
ST. LOUIS--Ozzie Smith had three singles and drove in two runs and Joe DeLeon pitched a four-hitter as the St. Louis Cardinals beat the New York Mets 5-3 Sunday. 
DeLeon, 2-1, surrendered two solo homers to Darryl Strawberry but was otherwise almost unhittable in beating New York. 
He struck out five and walked four and held New York hitless between a two-out triple by Dave Magadan in the fourth and Strawberry's two-out homer in the eighth. 
The Mets took a 2-0 lead on Kevin Elster's RBI single in the second and Strawberry's two-out homer in the third. 
Dodgers 2, Astros 1 
LOS ANGELES--Tim Leary pitched a five-hitter and Mike Marshall ex­tended his hitting streak to nine games with his third home run in four days as the Los Angeles Dodgers defeated the Houston Astros 2-1 on Sunday. 
Leary, 2-1, took a two-hit shutout into the ninth, but Ken Caminiti led off with a single. After Gerald Young into a force play, Rafael Ramirez singled him to third and Billy Hatcher followed with an RBI single. 
Brewers 4, Tribe 3 
MILWAUKEE--Glenn Braggs, who had three hits and three RBis, grounded a bases-loaded single in the lOth inning to give the Milwaukee Brewers a 4-3 win over Cleveland Sun­day. 
B.J. Surhoff led off the inning with a single off Keith Atherton, 0-1. After Gary Sheffield popped out to shortstop, Robin Yount doubled, sending pinch runner Mike Felder to third. 
Atherton walked Rob Deer inten­tionlly to load the bases but Braggs greeted Jesse Orosco with a hard grounder through a drawn-in infield. 
The Indians took a 2-0 lead in the first on Pete O'Brien's homer, which fol­lowed a two-out single by Joe Carter off Milwaukee starter Bryan Clutterbuck. 
Rangers 9, Tigers 6 
DETROIT--Pete Incaviglia homered and drove in three runs and Rafael Pal­meiro and Steve Buechele also homered as the Texas Rangers out­lasted Detroit 9-6 Sunday. 
Charlie Hough, 2-0, allowed five runs on five hits over 5 1-3 innings. 
Kenny Rogers and Cecilio Guante fol­lowed before Jeff Russell came on in the ninth for his fourth save, ending the 4 hour, 7 minute game, longest 9-inning contest in the both teams' history. 
The Observer accepts class1fieds every business day from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 unti13 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. Haggar College Cenler. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classif1eds must
Classifieds be prepaid. The charge is 10 cents per f1ve characters per day 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
····························· ......................... NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave.(walking distance lrorn campus) ph. 233-2342 
RESUMES, reports, etc. typed on a computer. Call Sue's Secretarial Ser­vice anytime at 2~. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
HOLY CROSS PRIESTS & BROTHERS VOCATION COUNSELING lor the ONE­YEAR CANDIDATE PROGRAM and other ministry opportunities. Contact: FR. JOHN CONLEY, CSC BOX 541 NOTRE DAME 239-6385 
APPLICATION FORMS FOR ISO BOARD MEMBERS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE ISO OFFICE, 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE!I!!I 

LOST/FOUND 
LOST: GOLD WEDDING RING SOME­WHERE BETWEEN 01 AND DILLON. IT HAS DEEP SENTIMENTAL VALUE PLEASE CALL 283-2447 IF FOUND. WILL PAY A REWARD OF CASH OR OTHER SERVICES SHALL BE REN­DERED. 
LOST: Gray Lad1es SWATCH Sat. Lost on or near South Quad. ~ found please call 284-5504. 
................... ······························ LOST--Yellow M1no1ta weatherproof camera at Stepan courts 4-5 REWARD 
contact Geoff Weidner 283-2213 ································ ........................... . Lost: REEG'S on the ISLAND GOLD WATCH Please return. Engagement gift wl great sentimental value. CALL Francis: x1436. BIG REWARD $$$$$. 
FOUND: Lady'a rtng nMr Grotto. C.U 
J.n 234--8548 evening to Identity. 
LOST: GOLD ROPE NECKLACE ON FRI. 4/T. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL X1326. 

FOR RENT 
NICE FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. 
287-6389, 683-8889. 

HOUSE FOR RENT OVER THE SUMMER-NEAR CAMPUS. 232-3616 
FOUR FLAGS FARM BED AND BREAKFAST CONVENIENTLY LO­CATED 20 MINS. FROM NO. IDEAL FOR ALL NO ACTIVITIES. 616-471­5711. 
MALE GRADUATES Furnlahed rooms, air, kitchen, fridge, 5 min. N. campus. 272~15. 
2-BDRM APARTMENT • AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER CALL 271-8904 
································ 
MARION STREET "FRAT HOUSE" FOR RENT 9person oc· cupancy,2baths,bsklbllcrt pool tbl,3rd floor bar&party room 3 car garage.fire place,washer&dryr must see this home!call 289-1233 
SUMMER APT-2 BR, Turtle Creek Fully furnished-can 2598 ························································ 
Turtle Creek Apt for sublease during summer months; call Felix 3368 or Matt 3255 
710 REX STREET 
CLEAN HOME, 3-5 BEDROOMS, 2 BATHS 8&-90 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL CHUCK GLORE AT 232·1n&. 
Rooms lor rent, S120tno; ALSO 2 Bedroom home lor rent on NO Ave 272-6306 
THERE'S STILL A HOUSE AVAILABLE IN GOOD CONDITION AND EXCEL· LENT LOCATION--SAFE AND CLOSE­4'5 BEDROOMS. FURNISHED. 233­9947 

WANTED 
I NEED GRADUATION TIX 

IN A BIG BIG WAY!! CALL DAN # 3495 $$$$$$$$ 
ACT IN TV COMMERCIALS. NO EXPE· RIENCE. ALL AGES. CHILDREN, TEENS, YOUNG ADULTS, FAMIUES, ETC. HIGH PAY TV ADVERTISING. CALL FOR CASTING INFORMATION. CHARM STUDIOS, (313) 542-8400 EXT. 2283. 
GREAT PART-TIME OPPORTUNITY GAIN EXPERIENCE AND EARN MONEY by working on Fortune 500 Companies' marketing programs on campus. 2-4 FLEXIBLE hours each w-. Appllcetlons being taken lor Im­mediate and Fall 89 openings. C•ll: 1-800-821-1543. 
GOVERNMENT JOBSI NOW HIRING THIS AREAl $10,213 TO $75,473. IMMEDIATE OPENINGS! 
CALL(REFUNDABLE)1~1>7~ 
EXT F-2382H. 

NEED ROOMMATE FOR SUMMER. 4418 OR 847 PE. SLOAN. 
HELP I Ride needed to Cleveland on 4-27 or 4-28. Will help with expenses. Call Kara at 272-2363. 

FORSALE ] 
"PASSPORT" RADAR DETECTOR 
RATED II 1 IN WORLD 

ALL ACCESSORIES INCL PAID OVER 
$400 X3201 $300 B<l 

10 speed bike for sale good condHion $40 or best offer call 283-3582 
... ··········· ... ........ .. . ··········. FLY HOME TO CT-1 way after St12 IX> before 4-29-Kevin 0 271-9311 

TICKETS 

NEEO 3 GRAO TIX $$$ 2n.Q548 PAT 

PERSONALS 
hlag 

AN TOSTAL'89 GENERAL MEETING NO LIBRARY AUDITORIUM MONDAY APRil 17 9 P.M. .............................................................. SCAP ..... The Word of the Future!!! Use H NOWI! 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-aoo-343-8373. 
I need a ride to IU for Little 500 weekend. Cen leave anytime, will pey lor gas. Please call Kathleen at # 2666. 
Satumallan Delights! (lor all you Eplcureanol) Come peruH the St Ed'a Charity Camlv.l and par­take In scintillating folderol guaranteed to pique the Interest. of even the most lugubrious of the hoi polloi. H'o not • vtc.rtoully experienced exlat•ntlallat dreem-lt'o real! Bibulousness strtctly prohlbHed. 
................................... IrS 
COMING ...... ANTOSTAL'89 FINAL 
SIGN UPS TUESDAY APRIL 18 
6-BP.M. S.U.B. 
GOLF TOURNEY, AIF BAND. 
MATTRESS RACE. TIRE ROLLING. IM· 
PERSONATIONS, CHARIOTS, PILLOW 
FIGHTS, TUG OF WAR SLAM DUNK. 
OBSTACLE COURSE, KISSER, CKALK 
DRAWING 
DON'T FEEL LEFT OUTIIII 
RIDE NEEDED­DA YTON,CINN,COLUMBUS AREA· WEEKEND OF 4-21 C!IRRIE 284-5415 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE 
SMC FRESHMAN THIS IS YOUR LAST CHANCE TO PICK UP YOUR BOXERS FROM FRESHMAN FORMAL YOU CAN PICK THEM UP IN MCCAND­LESS RM.109 ON MONDAY AND TUESDAY FROM 7-9. IF YOU DO NOT PICK THEM UP ON THESE DAYS THEY WILL BE SOLD TO OTHER PERSPEC· TIVE CUSTOMERS. THIS IS YOUR LAST CHANCEl SO PICK THEM UP! 
TC C 
HHA EAR RN Sll TTV YA EL D S APRIL 23. STEPAN ...... ...................... . YOUR MOTHER SMELLS OF ELDER­BERRY Come to the St. Ed's Charity Carnival or I shall taunt you a second limel 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY SEAN HICKEY! Love Gina 
Vole for DAVE JANDRIC for presldent of the RICK PURCELL FAN CLUB 
HAPPY HAPPY BIRTHDAY to DENSA's co-founder!I Jen-Ben is 221 We wish you happiness and laughter always. 

GRADUATE SCHOOL PREPARATION A FACULTY PANEL WILL DISCUSS RE­SEARCH, APPLICATION, SELECTION. TODAY, 4:00 P.M. NOTRE DAME ROOM (LAFORTUNE). ALL CLASSES AND MAJORS INVITED. JUNIORS EN­COURAGED TO ATTEND. SPON­SORED BY CAREER & PLACEMENT. 
GRADUATE SCHOOL PREPARATION A FACULTY PANEL WILL DISCUSS RE­SEARCH, APPLICATION, SELECTION. TODAY, 4:00 P.M. NOTRE DAME ROOM (LAFORTUNE). ALL CLASSES AND MAJORS INVITED. JUNIORS EN­COURAGED TO ATTEND. SPON­SORED BY CAREER & PLACEMENT. 
····················· 

CUT THE ROSE BEFORE IT GROWS 
Old you get • DINING HALL SUrvey 
Did you ftll H out y.t? 
Old you Ml1d H In y.t? 
Please help us out and send H in. You 
can send it Campus Mail, and it won't 
cost you anything. 
~a_k~ .SIJ.rS. V.()IJr ()pinions are 1<!1~--­
SMC FRESHMAN LOOK FOR THE FRESH. FORMAL PICTURES IN THE GAME ROOM!! 
DEAD HORSE Live R&R Wed 19 at Bridget's 10-12:30 Rock withe HORSE 
Oh Holy St. Jude Apostle & Martyr great in virtue & rich in miracles nera kinsman of Jesus Christ faithful intercessor of all who invoke your patronage in time of need to you I have recourse and from the depth of my heaert I humbly beg to whom God has given such great power to come to my essnance. Help me in my present and urgent petHion. In return I promise to make you name known & cause you to be invoked. 3 Our Fathers. 3 HBJI Marys, 3 Glories. St. Jude pray for us and all who 1nvoke your name. mw 
··················· 
Maria Doti: Thanks for everything. Some dey you must come visit me. We can liven the lives ol a few Europeans. -Kara 
BE A OJ FOR THEODORE'S Pl•y with recorda Get chk:ka 
Pl•y with • _.ly nMI •­E.-n BIG bucb PICK UP AN APPUCAnON AT STUD. ACTIVITIES OFFICE Due Mon. Apr. 24 
WANTED: TIJBA PLAYER •ndOr OJ Apply Ill Stud. Actlvltlee Oltlce by Mon. Apr. 24 
Happy Birthday LEN I! 
I LOVE YOU! 
Come to the St. Ed's Charity 
Carnival. April 23! You'U get the opportunity to dunk people you know, eat food, listen to buttock­kicking music, play lots of GAMES OF SKILL. and help raise 
oodles of money for charity! 
Come out and effervesce! 

BABELO BABELO BABELO BABELO 
You've actually made it through three 
years and three months of me-y todavia 
piensas que quieres pesar el resto de tu 
vida oon migo. T e deseo mucha suerte 
y te debo muchas muchas gracias, a Ia 
verdad que sin ti no hay nada. Feliz Dia, 
with too much love •••••• your Heleni 
...................... ...... 
MODEL OAS will be having • panel 
dt.cuulon on "• recent trip to w..h. 
lngton, D.C. Come meal the team and 
lhe next Model OAS preoldent In the 
esc·a Coli• Houaa from 7:30 to tlpm, 
Tuesday, Aprtl 18. 
hey DOUGIE Fresh Hed a great time last Sat. night Will I see more of you? One more question-Whet took you so long? 
MADONNA 

MARY EUZABETH POHS To my favorite parrot-headette Con· gratulations on graduation-Can't waH to have you back where you belong-in Colorado! Love you Bud in Fort Fun, Beth Ellen p.s. Parrot heeds forever! 
SR. FORMAL BID FOR SALE. CALL BRIDGET AT 284-5130. 
CB 

HACE DOS MECES DESDE QUE TE CONOCI. DURANTE ESTOS 80 DIAS HE DISFRUTADO DE TU COMPANIA. TE RECUERDO SIEMPRE CON CARINO. MUCHAS GRACIAS POR LAS VECES OUE ME HAS ESCUCHADO MIS PROBLEMAS Y TAM BIEN POR LA ALEGRIA QUE ME HAS DADO. 
CON MUGHO AMOR. 

AMM P.S. HAVE FUN TRANSLATING THIS-YOU BIG SPANISH STUD . 
"LF5" TO THE SENIOR-TO-BE GIRLS WHO PICKED AM 434 LEMANSI!"If4" We are selling the blue carpet and the couch sections in our roorn. Please come to see them and we wiN offer good prices. Cerry on the tredilion--the room wouldn't be the same wilhoultheml! 
I!IIII!!!!!I!SENIORSIIIIII!IIIIIII GET READY--THE "TIME OF OUR LIFE" IS ONLY 4 DAYS AWAYI! GET YOUR DANCING SHOES AND DRINKING GLOVES ON FOR 48lvs OF NON-STOP FUNI AFTER ALL. THIS IS OUR LAST FLING UNTIL MAY 20 & 21 ... 

page 8 The Observer Monday, April 17, 1989 · SPORTS BRIEFS


NO women's tennis on a tear 
The Blue-Gold Game will be held Saturday, April 
Irish get past Michigan 6-3 for 12th consecutive victory 
22, at 1:30 p.m. in the stadium. Notre Dame and Saint 

Tourney 
continued from page 12 
Malloy hit one of his five at-

Defense 
continued from page 12 
to tight end Derek Brown for two yards and a touchdown. 
"The longer we went, the first offense played more like a unit," Holtz said. 
Setzer and Jandric played on both sides of the ball, Setzer at tailback and cornerback, Jandric at split end and corner. 
Former graduate assistant Jay Hayes has been named an Irish assistant coach, replac­ing defensive end coach George Stewart, who will be an assis­tant coach with the Pittsburgh Steelers. Hayes, a 1982 graduate of Idaho, was a defen­sive lineman at Idaho and with the Detroit Lions, Washington Redskins, and Michigan and Memphis in the USFL. 

Irish 
continued from page 12 
Counsell, Sass, Binkiewicz, Jason Martinez and Moshier all had three hits. 
Mike Coffey, 5-0, picked up the win. 
In the four games with the Flyers, the Irish had 58 hits in 146 at-bats, hitting .397 for the weekend. 
As part of the graduation process, federal regulations require all students who have borrowed from the Stafford Loan Program (formerly Guaranteed Student Loan) and the Supplemental Loan for Students (SLS) to attend an exit interview before leaving the University. The exit Interview will review your rights and responsibilities for repaying your loan(s), deferment options and loan consolidation benefits. For your convenience, we have scheduled ten exit Interview sessions. 
Please plan on attending one.  
Tuesday, April 18th  7:00-7::30 PM  
Lafortune  7:45-8:15 PM  
Notre Dame Room  8::30-9:00 PM  

Wednesday, April 19th 2:00-2::30 PM 
Lafortune Notre Dame Room 
Thursday, April 20th Lafortune Notre Dame Room 
tempts in Saturday's game. basketball this past season, 
Former Irish placekicker when he missed all 11 shots Reggie Ho proved that size Friday as She Shook Me All wasn't the only thing prevent-Night Long lost to York Plus 4 ing him from playing varsity 21-9. 
r---------------------~
FREE 
SCHOLARSHIP INFORMATION FOR I STUDENTS WHO NEED 



MONEY FOR COLLEGE 
Every Student is Eligible for Some Type of Financial Aid Regardless of Grades or Parental Income. 
• 
We have a data bank of over 200,000 listings of scholarships, fellowships. grants, and loans, representing over $10 billion In private sector funding. 

• 
Many scholarships are given to students based on their academic interests, career plans, family heritage and place of residence . 

• 
There's money available for students who have been newspaper car­riers, grocery clerks, cheerleaders, non-smokers ...etc. 

• 
Results GUARANTEED. CALL For AFree Brochure • •] 


ANYTIME (800) 346-6401 fi 
L---------------------~ 
YOU'VE COME A LONG WAY, BABY! 


2:45-:3:15 PM :3:.30-4:00 PM 4:15-4:45 PM 
7:00-7::30 PM 7:45-8:15 PM 8::30-9:00 PM 
r-----------------------~ 
:SMC Shaheen Bookstore : 
I  I  
:  Don't forget to pick up your  :  
I  graduation announcements  1  
:  April 17 & 18 at Haggar College Center  :  
I  I  
:  Bring in this Ad and receive  :  

:1 0°/o off any regular priced sweatshirt 1 
1 in the bookstore. : I I 
: Offer good thru April 22 1 
------------------------~ 
STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGSI r------·COUPON SAVINGS-------. 
I$1 OFF STUDENT CUT I 
I Reg. $8 Ma~~~ : 
:l-------------------,$1 OFF STUDENT CUT 1 
I · MasterCuts I
1 Reg. $8 family haircutters
r-------------------1I 
:$5 OFF ANY PERM 1 
I Ma~~~ I ~------------------~ 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
2n-ano 

By BARB MORAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team extended its win­ning streak to 12 with a 6-3 win over Michigan last Saturday. 
Despite the wide margin of victory, the win wasn't an easy. one, according to Irish coach Michele Gelfman. 
"Michigan was a much toug­her team than the score indi­cates," said Gelfman. "They had a lot of depth-we really weren't comfortable until the singles matches were over." 
Notre Dame took four of the six singles contests, giving them the advantage going into singles play. Irish top seed CeCe Cahill beat Stacy Berg, Michigan's top player, by scores of 6-2, 6-0. 
"CeCe played a great match." said Gelfman. "We were surprised because Berg totally changed her game plan, but CeCe started off strong and Berg just couldn't keep up with her." 
Gelfman also praised several other Irish players for tough singles play. 
"I think that everyone played well in the singles matches," she said. "Kim Pacella played the gutsiest match I've ever seen her play, and Tracy Bar­ton also played an outstanding match. When Tracy hits her shots, most guys can't even hit them back. 
"Katie Clark also played well, considering that she was sick all week and only prac­ticed Friday. She played with a really bad chest cold and I was pleased with her perfor­mance.'' 
In the doubles competition, the Notre Dame duo of Cahill and Barton marked up another win, beating Michigan's top team 6-3,6-1. The Irish team of Clark and Pacella was also vic­torious, winning by scores of 6­4, 7-5. 
Anne Bradshaw, in her first match back after surgery on her thumb, paired with her sister Kathy and lost a 7-5, 7-6 heartbreaker. 
The Notre Dame women 05­
4) will look to continue their wmnmg streak Tuesday against Northwestern. 
Gelfman is confident of her team's ability to give Northwestern some strong competition. 
"We're playing well right now," said Gelfman. "We just need to get our confidence level up a little, and then we'll prove that we can play with the best in the region." 
Mary's students will be admitted upon presentation of an ID card at gates 15 and 16. Spouses and children must have a ticket. General admission tickets for the public are available from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday-Saturday at gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. Adult tickets are $3 in advance and $4 game day. Youth tickets are $1.50 in advance and $2 the day of the game. -The Observer 
The Bengal Bouts Banquet will be held for all boxers Wednesday, April19, at 5:30p.m., at St. Hedwig's Parish. Call Mike at x3386 for more information. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball is looking for referees to start on Monday, April 24. The pay has increased to $8 per game. Call Jeff at x1504 for more information. -The Observer 
Off-Campus lacrosse has a game Tuesday, April 18, at 8 p.m. on Cartier Field vs. Grace. Call Bill at 287-5758 for more information. -The Observer 
SMC-ND women's lacrosse will practice at 4:15 
p.m. outside today at SMC. Call Maria at x2577 for more information. -The Observer 
Monday, April 17, 1989 The Observer page 9 
Irish lacrosse outlasts Denison for 7th straight 
By PETE LaFLEUR 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse 
team continued to soar to fur­
ther heights, beating Denison 
8-5 Saturday in Granville, Ohio. 
The Irish (7-3) won for the first time at Denison and stretched their winning streak to a school-record seven games. Senior tri-captain John Olmstead led the Irish with a goal and four assists on his way to securing two career Irish scoring positions. 
Olmstead moved past 1985 graduate Bob Trocchi into second place on the Irish career scoring list with 144 points. He also passed 1986 graduate Tom Grote to become the all-time Irish assist leader with 63. 
Denison entered the game ranked eighth in Division III. The Big Red had held a 7-2 se­ries edge over the Irish, but Saturday was unable to hold off a relentless Notre Dame effort. 
"It's a great victory, there's no doubt about it," said senior tri-captain Kevin O'Connor. "It shows how capable we are of playing, and although Denison beat Michigan State and Ohio State, we know we still have to play very well." 
The Denison wins over Ohio State and Michigan State take on added significance, because the Irish will battle the Spar­tans and Buckeyes for the NCAA western regional bid in late April. According to Olmstead, the Irish have a sense they can capture the bid with continual improvement. 
"In the first 
we weren't sure what we had 
to do to win," said Olmstead, 
in reference to the team's three 
opening losses on the road. 
"But now we've learned what 
we have to do, and that's 
simply play as a team." 
Notre Dame broke out to an 
early 4-1 lead only to see 
Denison rally at the start of the 
second half to go up 5-4. 
In last year's 14-6 Big Red victory, the Irish got out to a similar early lead and Denison also came back. In that game, the Big Red scored 11 straight goals to put the game away. 
But this year, the Irish responded to the Denison rally by scoring the final four goals to secure the win. 
"We really wanted to come out and score the first goal of the first half," said Olmstead. "Instead, they scored two quick goals and took the lead. 
"But it was great to see our team not worry about it (the Denison goals) as we did in ear­lier losses," he continued. "We came back in one minute and Chris Nelson assisted John Capano on a great shot. That's great when you can have a freshman and sophomore take things into their own hands and get back the momentum." 
Another Irish freshman, Kevin Patrick, made a contri­bution in an uncharacteristic way. 
Patrick, a midfielder, runs on the defensive middie line with two defensemen. His role is almost entirely defensive and Patrick, who also plays defense for the Irish hockey team, has shut down virtually every opposing player this year. 

But Saturday Patrick came up with a goal that fired up the Irish squad and set the tone for the emotional win. 
On that goal, Patrick had just cleared the ball up to the Irish offense and was leaving the field on substitution. The Denison defenseman covering Patrick then raced ahead of him to beat him to the sub­stituion box. 
Patrick then switched his di­rection and took off towards the Denison goal unguarded. Olmstead saw him racing to the net and set up the freshman for his first goal of the year. 
"That was a real heads-up play on Kevin's part," Olmstead said. "It pumped everyone up because all year we've been stressing the im­portance of playing your role. 
"Kevin Patrick's role is not to score but to shut down the opposition, which he's done every game," he continued. "His scoring probably shocked Denison and was exciting for us to see another guy become a scoring threat." 
Notre Dame faces its most threatening opponent, Ohio Wesleyan, Saturday, April 22. The Battling Bishops are ranked second in Division III and hold an 8-0 series edge over the Irish. 
SUB WANTS YOU 
Come find out about us at our Open House and Ice Cream Reception Monday, April 17 6:30 -8:30 SUB Office, 2nd Fl. LaFortune 
ou can be a part of these commissions. • 
Music 
The Observer Monday, April 17, 1989
page 10 
Bookstore tourney races toward round of 256 
s.turdliy'a Reaulta  2:15-Let's DoH over 4 out of 5 Doctors by 12  2:15-Dick Enberg ... over Comb your teeth by  Valpo  2:00-5 Most Undesirable ... over 5 Gi~s better ...  
Stepan 1  3:00-Whatever over Killer Bees by 10  5  5:30-Kent's Getting Manried vs. X  by2  
1 :30-Naked Gunners over The Return ... by 6  3:45-The Morris Inn Keepers over 5 Guys who  3:00-Ministers of Pain over York¢ 4 by 12  6:15-Kickers-Kissers vs. Harvey Firestein...  3:00-Wait to you see us play over 4 Squids...  
2:15-Qui les Pipe over We Rally from behind  wanna ... by 2  3:45­ Rubber  Cement  over The Smilin', the  Stepan 2  by fooert  
by?  4:30-NO! over Minions of Arnold by 5  Leughin'... by 4  4:00-Groundskeepers ... vs. The UHimate Set  4:00-We wanna score over The Ballhandlers:  
3:oo-Here it is over We don't know by 11  5:15-Killer Bees (150) over Human Tripods by  4:30-Shooting Blanks over Chicks and Booze  of Toois  Susan... by fooert  
3:45-League of J over Escatology by 6  15  by 13  4:45-Hey Elmer give me your lunch money vs.  SMC2  
4:30­ Here's  to  you...  over  Ted  Bundy,  Stepan 4  Phi(we can't) Slamma ...  1 :00­ Absolut Knott over 4  Chee~eaders. a  
McDonald's ... by 7  Bookatore 9  1 :30-Sport Death over James end the Highway  5:30-The Travelling Diggerberries vs. Gauchos  jock... by 20  
5:15-Grip Crazy over 1sf Round Bye by 4  2:15-Jeff and 4 Skins over 5 Guys with big  Robbers by 7  6:15-Dr. Love ... vs. War Pigs Revenge  2:00-We've never been scored upon over Just  
St~~p~~n 2 1 :30-5 Men on Rubbers ... over Even we could beat... by 9 2:15-Unseeded Fertilizers over Dream Team by2 3:oo-Bennitt's Buffett ... over Hugh Wade's Dis­ciples by 15 3:45-5 Guys who can't... over 5 Guys who use big ... by 4 4:30-Improbable Cause over A Convict, the Quad... by 13 5:15-Bye to the next round over We hate peanut butter... by 11 St~~p~~n 4 1 :30-Take rt to the Crib over Sigma pi fingjacks by5 2:15-Bye over The Moot Points by 2 3:00-Digger stiffed me a tip ... over Hey Karen ... by 16 3:45-Trigger, Bronco ... over The Package ... by 16 St~~p~~n 3 1 :30-Take rt to the Crib over Sigma Pi Fingjacks by5 2:15-Bye over The Moot Points by 2 3:oo-Digger Stiffed Me a Tip... over Hey Karen ... by 16 3:45-Trigger, Bronco ... over The Package ... by 16 4:30-Touch-n-Go over Josie end the Pussycats by 15 5:15-Crispus Attacks ... over We've got a 5'9" Rod by 9 St~~p~~n q 1 :30-Batty's SC over We will score more than 4 pts .... by 13 2:15-Power Tools over Ed Pellican ... by 13 3:00-5 Guys who play hard over The Moles by 10 3:45-Cntter's ... over Cables end Brts by 12 4:30-Comb your teeth over Marc Christian.. by6 5:1 s-Dick Emberg... over You should have seen my shoes by 16 St~~p~~n 5 1 :30-Fire One over The Pelican Punishers by Fooeit 2:15-Slatty Cleavage over The Grace Balls by 3 3:00­Our Varsity Athlete... over Cha~es Thompson ... by 4 3:45-Banana, Cucumber ... over Kerth Tower ... by 17  heads ... by 7 3:oo-All The President's Men lfl over Neg end the Winners by 13 3:45-5 Other Oklahoma convicts over Potato Heads fl... by 18 4:30-Shark... over Bring Back Harry Kallas by 8 Bookatore 10 2:15-Cornnes over You break our nails we break your face by 1 0 3:oo-Minnehoonies over 4 Men and a Baby by 3 3:45-Yard Apes over 3 Domers ... by 13 4:30-Phil A. Sheough ... over Losers of the weak by 15 5:15-Pullin' Down... over Up to your elbow by 6 Lyons 11 2:15-3 Engaged Guys over Wayne end Garth's Excellent T earn by 3 :;. .,.;-Whiskey Richard over Hoosier Hysterics by 15 3:45-Dunkin' Hines Revenge over A Priest ... by2 4:30-4 Humans... over 5 Guys who like to eat out a lot by 15 Lyona 12 2:15-Adworks All-Stars over CopyCenter Copy Cats by 16 3:oo-Eddie and the Cruisers over The Watering Hole ... by 6 3:45-Air Zadra ... over Mike, Greg, Peter, Bobby, Cindy ... by 10 4:30-Slammin' Vermin over Soiitary, Mean, Nasty ... over 11 5:15-Hickory over Gimme A Beer by 4 Sunday'a RHults St~~p~~n 1 1 :30-Naked Gunners over Qui les pipes by 16 2:15-Here it is over League of J by 12 3:00-Here's to you over Grip Crazy by 12 3:45-Unseeded Feathers over 5 Men Running by 9 4:30-Bennitt's Buffet ... over 5 Guys who can't... by 13 St~~p~~n 2 1 :30-Improbable Cause over Bye to the next round by 4 2:15-Take rt to the Crib over Bye by 12 3:00-Digger stiffed me a tip ... over Trigger, Bronco ... by 6  2:15-Mother Goose over Mookie's Elbows by 7 3:00-Lotuses over 4 Bartenders & Norm by 7 3:45-So much like ... over Help! Gan't Buy me love ... by 9 4:30-Coach's over Melancholy by 13 St~~p~~n 5 1 :30-The Big Dudes over Nonoxynol-5 by 2 2:15-5 Nondescript Guys over The Cheese Farmers by 8 3:00-G-Men over Wade Boggs ... by 3 3:45-Swishkabob over The Fish that saved Prt­tsburgh by 5 4:30-4 Troopers ... over Anything by 13 St~~p~~n 6 1 :30-E-Z Cats over Der Wentos by 3 2:15-The FacuHy Jokes over 4 Brothers .. by 3 3:oo-Fighting Kemals over The Bar o' Cash by 11 3:45­Jerry's Kids over Tex Toomey's Lest Chance Cafe by 17 4:30-Don't Shocrt Skip over Team Saliva by 21 Bookstore 9 2:15-All the President's Men Ill over 5 Other Oklahoma... by 13 3:00-Shark... over We all Have Great Inside Games... by 6 3:45-Fire One over Slatty Cleavage by 12 4:30-Banana, Cucumber..• over Our Varsrty Athlete... by 2 Bookatore 1o 2:15-Rainmakers over Moose Pellets by 9 3:00-Let's Do H over Just Do It by 8 3:45-The Morris Inn Keepers over Whatever by 2 4:30-Killer Bees over NO! by 10 Lyons 11 1:30-Mlnah:lOnies over Yard Apes by For1eit 2:15-Pullin' Down ... over Phil A. Sheough ... by 3 3:00­Whiskey Richard over Dunkin' Hines Revenge by 5 3:45­5 Guys who signed up late over 4 Humans... by 3 4:30-Eddie and The Cruisers over Air Zadra ... by9 Lyons 12 1 :30-Hickory over Slammin' Vermin by 6 2:15-Slow Train Comin' over Hoops not Chicks by 2 3:00­Smell the Glove over Bad Boys of Bookstore by 11 3:45-No I in Team over TTAM ... by 18 4:30-Aaauugghh vs. Skynrd -Double Fooeit  St~~p~~n 3 4:oo-One Jerk Too Many vs. What's Mayo Bur­ning? 4:45-Global Order-Trotters vs. Dawn is Smooth 5:30-The Good, the Bad and the Laundry vs. If this were Nintendo.. 6:15-We always lose ... vs. Dr. Ruth's Soldiers of Sex Stepan 4 4:00-Dunky ... vs. 5 Guys who get their dates drunk 4:45-Dirty Dogs ... vs. We can't play but we coach better... 5:30-Big Ball Boys vs. The Go Team 6:15-Small But Hugh vs. Mary 3.1415 St~~p~~n 5 4:00-2 Third Stringers and 3 Right Wingers vs. John Tower's ... 4:45-We got cut from Adworks vs. Mike and the Minstrel Cycles 5:30­Pants wrthout Zippers over Khomeni's Bounty Hunters 6:15­Wally, Eddy, Ward ... vs. The Master Thespians Stepan 6 4:00­Ar-Salaam Alaikum vs. Slobbering Habraadous 4:45-John Tower's Boys vs. Vanilla Thunder 5:30-Ted Bundy & The Electrics vs. Snark 6:15-We may not win but we get chicks vs. Swish Swish Brick Bookstore 9 4:00-Murphy's Bar vs. 4 Dribbles and a Shooter 4:45-Howie's Heroes vs. We're Better in Bed 5:30-H's all about dissin' cous vs. Slo-Punch 6:15-Taller Lying Down vs. 4 Guys who fill a lane Bookstore 10 4:00-The Staggering ... vs. We've got armadillos in our trousers 4:45-What the heck's... vs. The Brickmasons 5:30-MBA's vs. PhysiCal Plant II 6:15-Barry Swrtzer... vs. Logan and 4 guys without ... Lyons 11 4:00-Ball-headed ... vs. We're Shirts 4:45-The President, Beer ... vs. Nice but Nasty 5:30-Air Chek ... vs. So I got my tongue 6:15-Best of the West vs. Acta Sanctorum Lyons 12 4:00-The Morning Missiles vs. 'Nuff Sa1d 4:45-Rubber Duckies vs. MBA Bulls 5:30-The Rectifiers vs. The Exchange 6:15-CJ's Pub vs. Doyle's Dynamic Dunkers  4 Fun by 14 3:00-Traveling Sleighbells over Ching Vi Wa Peejoe by fooeit 4:00-Just so we can tell... over Sieg"freaks" from Hell by 6 SMC3 1 :00-Five Funny Fickle Females ... over HooDoo Gurus by fooeit 2:00-Jaegermonsters over Please Don't Take us Seriously by 10 3:00-Five under 5'5" over 31 by fooeit 4:00-The Vixens over 6 by 13 SMC4 1 :00-Fawn Hall, Jessica Hahn... over Give us a dollar ... by forfert 2:00-Jerome & The Bouncers over Snak Pak by fooeit 3:00-We've Got H... over 2 RA's ... by 19 4:00­Playmates Reunited over The King IS Dead by 17 SMC5 1 :00-Orange Crush vs. If you think we're good... by 20 2:00-One Gi~ with Experience over Sorry Katie by for1ert 3:00-Secret Service over Banana Heads by 15 Sunday's RHults SMC1 1:00-Teeter ... over Violent Femmes by 17 2:00~ 4 Dunks rt 1 Dink over Mtnnesota minus One by 10 · SMC2 1 :00-Celeste & 4 Drunks who kissed a Hebrew over Duck's ... by 12 2:00-The Notre Dame RatiO.. over 4 Experi­enced Ballhandlers by for1ert SMC3 1 :00-3 Girls who've scored over Pantry Pan­thers by forfeit 2:00-The Dudettes ovver The Booby Trap by 20 SMC4 1 :00-Bye over Run SMC by 3 2:00-Two Words over The TuMt Police by 5 Monday's Games SMC1 4:00-Hoosier Lawyers vs. Globetrotters 5:00-Keith, John, Flanner ... vs. No Surrender SMC2 4:00-Absolut Knott vs. 5 Funny Fickle ... 5:00-Fawn Hall, Jessica Hahn... vs. We need $50 to...  
4:30-Moose Pellets over Petroleum Jelly by 15  3:45-Touch-n-Go over Crispus Attacks .. by 8  Bookstore Tournament  SMC3  
5:15-The Rainmakers over 68 & I owe you one  4:30-Betty's SC over Power Tools by 5  4:00-2 shots on ha, ha, ha vs. Hungry Wambats  
by 11  5:30-Rubber Cement over 3168 by 21  Monday's Garnes  Saturday's Results  5:00-Orange Crush vs. Hairy Buffalo ...  
Sltlplln 3  Sttlplln 1  SMC1  SMC4  
St~~p~~n 6  1 :30-Critter's .. over 5 Guys who play hard by  4:00-Rodan, Sky... vs. St. Ed's Stringers  1 :00-The Ballhandlers: Mike over Globetrotters  4:00-4 Virgins ... vs. Aunt Flo..  
1 :30-Just do it over Jeff graduated by 1 0  14  4:45-We're not cheeseheads vs. We could beat  by 3  5:00-5 most undesirable... vs. Team £30  

Women 
continued from page 12 
21-19, Orange Crush smashed If You Think We're Good You Should See Our Mothers, 21-1, the The Ballhanders, won a game called at 15, 15-12, over The Globetrotters, and Absolut Knott dismembered Four Cheerleaders, A Jock, A Band Geek, 21-1 in the preliminary round of the South bracket. 
Playmates Reunited killed The King is Dead, 21-4, The Vixens downed team Six, 21-8, Jaegermonsters laughed off Please Don't Take Us Serious­ly, 21-11, and We've Never Been Scored Upon did some scoring of their own against Just For Fun, winning 21-6 in the East bracket. 
We've Got It; Put It Through slaughtered Two RAs, Two Former PreMeds and a Hairdresser, 21-2, Secret Ser­vice decapitated the Banana Heads 21-6, Just So We Can Tell Our Grandkids won the epic battle to seven points against Sieg"freaks" from Hell, 7-1 to advance in the North bracket. 
The forfeit rage continued on 

Sunday in the first round 
games, as The Notre Dame 
Ratio: Five Girls to One Ball 
and Three Girls Who've Scored 
and Two That Want To each 
NOTICE TO MEMBERS OF NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION As a p.an of an ~udit of
Notre Dame Fe ral Credit Union as of Mar . 31,
1989, the superv1sorv
committee distributed 
i'tlateme.nJs to all n,ernbers. 
" vou did not re<:eiW your
statement Of if the balances do nQt IIQI'ee with 
the bala11C41s shoWtl on 
vourr~s. ~ contact Notr~ Dami Credit 
Union, P.O. Box 583, Notre 
Dame, IN 46556. Please 
~lll~s ~ithin ~~; 
shown 'i'.! ~.;;;;dS~ 
be conSlbered con.ct. 
won on no-shows. 
Two Words, a team picked as a favorite early-on, had some trouble with The Turlet Police but took a 21-16 victory home, Celeste and Four Drunks Who Kissed A Hebrew beat Duck's Revenge, 21-9, but had to forfeit the win due to rules violation, Teeter and the Four Hot Tot­ters clobbered the Violent 


THE CENTEQ fOQ THE HOMELE~ would like to thank all the volunteers-Activities Assistants, food &rvers, Drivers, Overni8ht Aids...­who have 8iven their help to supfDrl the Center. 
THANK YOU 
Femmes, 21-4, Four Dunks and One Dink slammed Minnesota Minus One, 21-11, Bye slipped past Run SMC, 21-18, and The Dudettes were too cool for The Booby Trap, winning 21-1. 
Bookstore action will con­tinue today for the women as the highly-touted Hoosier Lawyers will clash with The Ballhandlers. 
HAPPY 

BIRTHDAY MIKE *********** 
LOVE, 
Mom, Dad 
& Debbie 

lla;;?8-0t1j1 #rvt­
11till, TW't1 IItlfl 
e~~ t'er-1'"" #t~tallf, JQ/e.I(I(O., J~If~, r.klflfifer-, O,l(r/ Oat/e.? 


IllALUMNI-­-SENIOR 
~CLUB 
'89-'90 Disc Jockey Applications 
available in the Office of Student Activities 315 LaFortune. 
*Applications due April 21st 
: i 
I,l 
.. 
Monday, April 17, 1989 The Observer page 11 
CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 
-
4:00pm 
"Graduate School Preparation" a faculty panel discussion, 
ACROSS 28Guided 51 Certain poker 
Notre Dame Room, Second Floor LaFortune. 
29 Monk's title . hand
1 Mournful 

7:00pm 32 Nick Charles's 53 Nursery
4 Nomadic tribe, 
Adult Children of Alcoholics will meet tonight in the CSC e.g. dog tarts-maker building. All are welcome. 34 Vigor 59 Russian river 
9Gossip 
36Stewpots 

60 Part of a political 13 Eager 
3:00pm 38 "... -pinned platform
15 Liquid part of fat 
Campus will hold auditions for those who would like to read to the bark. "· 
61 Unit of area16 Lake or canal 
at the Baccalaureate Mass this year. The auditions will be Harte 
64 Site of the Taj 17 Container 
today at Sacred Heart Church. 41 Employs 
Maha!

18 Lowest point 42 Rival of Las 19 Small body of Vegas 
65 Weird water 43 Sun-dried brick, 66 Malicious look 
MENUS 
20 Big casino for short 67 Gainsay 23 Typical 44 His, in Nice 68 Requires Notre Dame Saint Mary's 24 Obtain 45 Theater sign 69 Diocese 
47 Historic period 

Sausage & Pepper Grinder French Dipped Sandwiches 25 Exclude 
26Chewy 49 Soak flax 
Baked Chicken & Herbs Pork Cutlet with Gravy 
substance 50 Drone, e.g. DOWN
Sweet & Sour Pork Egg Plant Parmesan 
1 Pouch 

Broccoli Cheese Casserole Deli Bar 
2 Actress Gardner ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 3 Those who bend 
the facts 4 Capital of Hawaii 5 King of Norway
M 
6 Comedian Foxx 
A 
7 Livy's 503 &Infuriate
T 23Golfclub 33 Fruit drink 52 And others: Lat. 9 Train station 
25Spa 35 Charge for abbr.
H 
10 Press services 53 Piece of type 
27 Small: Comb. 
metal11 Bacon skin form 37 Honorary law 54 Prod12 Spreads hay to 28Sierra-deg.

1 55 Merit
dry 39 City in the Ruhr 
29 Glows with 56 Run awayvalley14Act radiant energy 0 57 Noted loser of a
40Abandons
21 Inferior race 30 Notch or groove race1 horse in a board 46 Resume sa Geraint's wife 22 French wine 31 Valuable 48 Univ. city in Ohio 62 Dakota Indian region possession 50 Kin of avast 63 Before, to Byron 


COMICS 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 


BILL WATTERSON 

(I-IIC) I 1-lf..'lE (1-1\C) Wl-lr>.T IS IT? Wllf>.T \1,._'-J£ (1-\IC.) I (1-\IC.) Do ~au HA'J£ ? I ~t..'lE 11-IE (1-1\C) t>. OOLlt..R ?? A. "WE (1-1\c.) ... ~'---·--Nt'tl ~IC. B~.? 
Wllt..T?? 



'• 
-

R'r-----.. ~ ~~-c~­.... i(  I ~'  l  -~ > l ~~ '.,'I I . ~~  
,-. '  


page 12 
Adworks begins quest for 2nd Bookstore title 
Sports 
By FRANK PASTOR Assistant Sports Editor 
"I just want to have a good time. If you lose, you lose." --Tony Rice, April 2. "We want to go all the way this year. We just want to win." -Rice, April16. 
What a difference two weeks can make in the minds of those playing Bookstore Basketball, particularly for-the defending champs. 
Twelve days after Bookstore Basketball XVIII officially began, the defending champion Adworks All-Stars took to the court for the first time Satur­day in defense of their title. 
Adworks received a bye in the preliminary round, but the layoff didn't seem to hurt the team as it pounded Copy Center Copy Cats 21-5 as the field of 512 was narrowed. 
New recruit Tony Rice, who gained a little bit of seasoning in the pretournament Hall of Fame game, scored 10 points to lead Adworks in their quest to repeat as champion. 
Ironically, Adworks was paced by all three of its newcomers--Rice, Derek Brown and Derrick Johnson, who combined for 18 points. Re­turning players John Buscher and Kevin Keyes contributed the other three points. 
"We all played together as a team," said Rice. "We just got the ball to whoever was open and he took the shot. There weren't any bad feelings." 
Minahoonies, another highly­regarded team, won two games over the weekend despite taking the court only once. Sean Connor scored seven points Saturday to lead Minahoonies to a 21-18 victory over Four Men and a Baby. Minahoonies won by forfeit on Sunday. 
This weekend also saw the first shutout of the tournament, as Rubber Cement blanked 3168 21-0 on Friday afternoon. The losers shot a combined 0­for-21 on the day. 
"They (3168) didn't shoot very well," said Phil Kraker, who led all scorers with eight baskets. "We played well, but it wasn't our fuU team out there. -We scraped up some quality players. We play again Wednesday, so hopefully we'll have our full team back by then." 
Touch-N-Go had a relatively easy time in disposing of Josie and the Pussycats 21-6 on Sat­urday behind Ed Kosgrow's 11­of-13 shooting from the field. Touch-N-Go went on to defeat Crispus Attack, Joe Satriani, Sonny Liston and Two Others 21-13 the following afternoon. 
Naked Gunners also won im­pressively this weekend, first knocking off The Return of the Mad Latin Lover 21-15 on Sat­urday. Oui Les Pipe proved to be less of a challenge on Sun­day, as Naked Gunners romped, 21-5. 
Monk Malloy's All the Pres­ident's Men exercised their au­thority over Nag and the Win­ners, who proved to be otherwise in their 21-8 defeat. 
see TOURNEY I page 8 


Defense football 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame defense a loss, but eliminate the big dominated the offense for most mistakes. Graham and Belles 
<.' 
of Friday's football scrim­both competed hard and were mage, but it was the brutal hit­leaders, and that's all we ask." ting on both sides that caught The two saw more playing Irish head coach Lou Holtz's in­time with the absence of Tony
l 
terest. Rice, wha missed his second
(' 
"Brutal," described Holtz straight practice in order to aptly. concentrate on academics. The hard hits caused several Holtz said it was still "wait and 
\ 
The Observer I Paul Compton 

fumbles, most in the first half see" as to whether Rice would 
The Notre Dame baseball team won three out of four games against MCC rival Dayton this past 
of the scrimmage. The defense participate in Sunday's annual 
weekend, sweeping a doubleheader Saturday and splitting a twinbill Sunday. 
also managed three intercep­Blue-Gold game. Also absent tions, one returned for a touch­from play was flanker Raghib down by Todd Lyght. Ismail, who suffered a concus­
NO takes three· of four from UD 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame baseball team look three of four from MCC rival Dayton over the weekend, raising its record to 27-7. 
The Irish swept the Satur­day doubleheader, but on Sunday lost the first game to break a 10-game winning streak. 
On Saturday, the Irish beat the Flyers 6-5 and 13-4, with Mike Coffey, 4-0, and Erik Madsen, 6-2, picking up the wins. 
In the first game, the Irish rallied from a 5-3 deficit in the • seventh inning when catcher Ed Lund singled home Dan Peltier for the go-ahead run. Before that, James Sass singled home the tying run. 
In the second game, Mad­sen went the distance behind the team's 13 runs and 22 hits. The 22 hits were a season-high for the Irish. 
On Sunday the Irish lost the first game 7-3, managing only five hits and leaving eight runners on base. In the process, the Irish made three crucial errors. 
Brian Piotrowicz took the loss, giving up seven runs (only two earned) in 5 2-3 in­nings. He gave up five un­earned runs in the third when the leadoff batter reached base off an error by Mike Coss. 

Monday, April 17, 1989 
No-shows popular in first round 
By MOLLY MAHONEY 
Sports Writer 

There's nothing like -the feeling of winning, the feeling of getting one step closer to the top. 
And what could be more gratifying to a team than ar­riving at the game ready to play, only to find that your op­ponent had a more pressing en­gagement than basketball? 
But a forfeit does count as a win, and 10 teams managed to advance in the women's Bookstore tournament last weekend without even setting foot on the court. 
Eight of these teams accom­plished this feat Saturday, as Five Funny Fickle Females Sitting Sipping Scotch and Fawn Hall, Jessica Hahn and Three Other Girls Who Are 'Easy To Score On became the first teams to win by forfeit in their games in the South bracket. 
Jerome and the Bouncers, Wait To You See Us Really Play and One Girl With Expe­rience did it again in the East bracket and Traveling Sleigh­bells, We Wanna Score and Five Under 5'5 followed suit in the North bracket. 
Some of the 38 teams sched­
uled to play Saturday did 
manage to get their games 
started, as Five Most Un­
desirable Basketball Players 
defeated Five Girls Better 
Than Tower in a tight game, 
see WOMEN I page 10 
dominates 
•

scrimmage 
not to make the mistakes, not to make turnovers," Holtz said. "We said to take a sack, take 
"I was impressed with the sion in practice Tuesday and Secondbaseman Mike 
defense," Holtz said. "I saw was held out of action Friday. Moshier followed with an er­
some good hits out there. It was On the ground, tailback ror on the next batter, which 
the most physical we've been. -Ricky Watters took the brunt opened the floodgates for a 
We had too many turnovers, of a lot of the brutality of the Dayton rally. The Flyers fol­
but a lot of them were cause by defense, carrying 21 times for lowed with a double, triple 
the tackling." 91 yards, despite being and homerun. 
The defense made life diffi­slammed by two defenders in Down 7-3 in the seventh, 
cult for quarterbacks Steve the second period. the Irish threatened with the 
Belles and Kent Graham, both "I was very impressed with bases loaded and one out. Joe 
of whom played with the first Mr. Watters," Mr. Holtz said. Binkiewicz grounded into a 
offensive unit at times. Both "He ran physical and he ran double play to end the game. 
had trouble getting started tough." In game two the Irish were 
against the obsessive defense, The Irish offense scored victorious 22-9, their highest 
but the offense picked up in the three touchdowns, one by Rod­run output of the season. 
final third of the scrimmage. ney Culver, running up the Their 25 hits were also a 
Belles completed 4-of-10 middle, another by Rusty Set­season high. 
passes for 66 yards, and zer, a nine-yard run capping a Peltier led the way for the 
Graham was 5-of-14 for 61 short drive. Irish, going 4-for-6 with five 
yards, two of those completions The scoring and the scrim­RBI. Pat Pesavento, Craig 
on consecutive passes to split mage ended with a Belles flip end David Jandric. 
see IRISH I page 8 

"We told the quarterbacks see DEFENSE I page 8 





