
VOL XXIII NO. 62 TUESDAY , DECEMBER 5, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

By ALISON COCKS 
News Writer 
Grace Hall was vandalized early Sunday morning resulting in damage to several of its first floor facilities. 
The first floor men's room sustained the most extensive damage. 
A stall door was ripped from its hinges and its metal frame torn from the floor where it was anr.hored. Both were found in a heap of dented. twisted metal on the floor of the bath­room. The dents in the door and frame appeared to have been caused by a hammer or a similar type of heavy weapon. A mirror was also broken. 
Cabinet doors underneath the information desk across from thP main door of the building wnre ripped from their hinges and the telephone behind the desk was torn from the wall. The culprit apparently tried to pry open the r.ash box located there. without success. 
The glass on a first floor vending mar.hine, one of five in its area. was smashed and the machine's r.ontents stolen. The other four were untouched. 
The vandalism is thought to have occurred around 4 a.m. on Sunday. A resident of Grace heard noises at that time from his room, which he believed were coming from outside. 
It is now thought that they were probably coming from within as the vandalism was occurring, said Grace Rector Father Gerald Lardner. 
Hall Clerk Jonathan Halloran discovered the damage to the front desk and the vending ma­chine at 9 a.m. and telephoned Lardner, who then called Notre Dame Security. The damage to the bathroom was discovered later in the day. 
Members of the Security staff were unavailable for comment. 
Suspects have not been identi­fied yet, although steps have been taken within the hall to find further information. Signs have been posted in each sec­tion asking residents to tele­phone Security if they are aware of any relevant informa­tion. 
No damage to any of the hall's outer doors was re­ported. Grace's resident assis­tants ~ke final rounds at 2 a.m., when all outer doors are lor.ked. There is no hall monitor of any kind on duty after this time, said Mark Wattley, assis­tant rector. 
The culprit is not necessarily a resident of Grace, Wattley emphasized. No one without a key could easily gain access to the hall after 2 a.m., but the culprit might have been unwit­tingly admitted to the dorm by a resident. This is possible, as "there are always people around," according to Grace Hall Co-President Stephen Leinenweber. 
see GRACE I page 6 
Police snag students in bar raid 
27 Notre Dame students arrested at Commons 
By ASHBY JORDAN For the most part patrons mation about the case, saying News Writer were cooperative and the raid only that each case will be re-
was conducted in an orderly viewed separately. · 
Local police raided the Com­fashion, though some of the Conducted by a joint task mons bar early Saturday Dec. students arrested were unruly, force, the raid was done as 2, arresting 27 Notre Dame according to Feirrell. part of a local program called students for underage drinking All students arrested were Stop Underage Drinking and and other violations, said St. charged with a Class C misde­Sales (SUDS). Included in the Joseph's County Sheriffs De­meanor. If convicted, they could program were the Indiana partment Officer Charles Feir­face up to a year in jail plus State Excise Police, the St. rell. fines and court costs. Joseph's County Sheriffs De­
partment, the Indiana State 
Conducted by a combined Those with no prior arrest Police, the South Bend Police task force of city, county and had the opportunity to take the and the Mishawaka Police. Also state agencies, the raid caught Pre-trial Diversion Program. included was a representative a number of underage drinkers This program lets the accused from Notre Dame Security. from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's take six months to one year of 
Created as part of the gover­and local high schools. probation and perform com­
nor's task force to reduce
munity service. By choosing the 
Though the exact number of drunk driving, SUDS has ex­
program, students can avoid a
those arrested was not known, isted for four years. As part of
court date.
the St. Joseph's County Sher­an overall program to combat
Upon completion of the com­
iffs Department reported the underage drinking, SUDS has
munity service and after paying 
issuance of 27 citations for mi­been raiding parties and bars
all monthly fines, the student's 
nors in a tavern to Notre Dame in an effort to reduce teenage
record will be expunged and no
students. In addition to those drunk driving.
record of the arrest will ap­
citations, several Notre Dame Because of the presence of
pear.
students were also charged the University and the prolifer­
with possession of a false iden­Names of those students who ation of drinking among local 
tification. were charged with possession high school students, the pro­
Acting on a complaint that of a false ID were given to the gram has been built up in the 
students turned away by other University, though those stu­area and has been quite active, 
bars were entering the Com­dents charged only with being and according to Feirrell, the 
mons, the police raided the bar underage in a bar were not. program has been beneficial. 
at 12:15 a.m. and began to The Office of Student Affairs "It has been a successful pro­
check ID's. declined to release any infor-gram," Feirrell said. 

'Discrepancy' in minority housing 
By SANDRA WIEGAND dinator of the Student Go~ern­The committee will be con­News Writer ment Legal Department, said cerned with all groups receiving she had spoken with a number money from the Student Activi­
A discrepancy exists between of minority club presidents, and ties Fee. the number of minority stu­all were in favor of random It will "focus primarily on dents rooming together and the placement in residence halls. non-financial aspects of re­number that random placement Dome Awards will be pre­sponsibility and serve as a would explain, according to a sented this year to four seniors purely informational and advi­resolution passed by the Stu­who have excelled in academic sory arm of the Student Sen­dent Senate, Monday. and athletic activities at Notre ate," the resolution said. 
The resolution states that the Dame, said a Dome editor at An amendment proposing housing office has provided the senate meeting. Nomina­that the Office of the Ombuds­inadequate information to ex­tions are being accepted by the man be written out of the Stu­plain the discrepancy, and re­editors now, and any student dent Senate constitution, as its quests that the Office of Stu­can nominate someone. purposes are served by other dent Affairs and Residence Life A resolution concerning the organizations, was presented explain and take steps to elimi­formation of an Ad Hoc Com­at the meeting. The Ombuds­nate the discrepancy. mittee on Leadership Responsi­
Megan Hines, executive coor-bility was passed by the senate. 
see SENATE I page 6 


AP Photo

The presidents speak 
U.S. President Bush gestures toward Soviet President Gorbachev during their joint statement Sunday afternoon aboard the Soviet liner Maxim Gorky following their bilateral talks. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


DART video, red apples top Christmas lists 
It's that time of 
Tuesday, December 5, 1989
The Observer 
WEATHER 


year  again;  time  to  
make  up  a  list  of  
Christmas  gifts  to  

give to your friends -both naughty and nice. For Christmas 1989, hP-rc arc a few items that should go under the tree for your friends under the Dome. 
1990 HATE MIAMI CALENDAH: Sure they 

Robyn Simmons Assistant Accent Editor 
beat us, but we can still hate the llurrieanes. The 1990 llate Miami calendar counts down the number of days until our next confrontation with Miami (October 20, 1990-and it's a home game) with a differ­ent player to hate each month. 
HOCK: No, not the Rockne Memorial, but a real rock. In many third world countries, people wash their laundry by bringing it down to the river and scrubbing it against a large boulder. Until the University installs washing machines and dryers in all of the men's dorms, (hint hint) a rock and a river might be the best way to get the wash done. However, there is one small problem. The mighty St. Joe may be just a little too polluted to clothes. Rumor has it that people fishing in the St. Joseph find that their eateh is already cooked. 
MIL SNOWBALL: Remember Mr. Snoweone? All you had to do is shave some iee eubes, add syrup, and you had a nice yummy snoweone. Mr. Snowball operates on the same prineiple (syrup is optional.) This way you ean have snowball fights all year round-just as long as you don't run out of lee. Just make sure you don't hit Father Tyson's window. 
DICK ADDIS DOLL: For those of you who ean · t get enough of the Channel 16 Weathergod. lie's cute! lie's cuddly! Just pull the string in his back and he'll give you the weather word of the day. 
DANCING DICK ADDIS DOLL: For diehard Dick Addis fans. This gift is basi­cally another version of the dancing flowers which are so popular this Christmas season. The Daneing Diek will boogie down to anything except musie by Hick Astley­the scourge of humankind. 
APPLE: A juicy, shiny, red apple is the perfect gift for that special prof. (And what a way to get in good with your prof right before finals.) 
BHOWN NOSE: This is the perfect gift for professors to give to their students when they sec students pull an apple out of their bookbags. It's a simple plastic schnoz with a big splotch of brown on the tip. One size fits all. 
DAHT VIDEO: DAHT may not have been the rousing success we all hoped it would be, but that DART video was exceptional. It's the perfect addition to anyone's video library. 
So there you have it, the hottest gift ideas for Christmas 1989. If all else fails, the Bookstore is always ready and willing to take just a little bit more of your money to invest in another Notre Dame sweatshirt. Happy holidays and happy shopping! 

P0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
(219)·239-7471  
Tuesday's  Staff:  
News  Ad  Design  VIewpoint  
Christine Walsh  Shannon Roach  Molly Schwartz  
Janice O'Leary  Val Paletta  Janice O'Leary  
Meg Callahan  
Accent  systems  
Colleen Cronin  Sports  Gilbert Gomez  
Stephanie Snyder  Mary Garino  Michael Gargiulo  
Alison Cocks  
Production  
KalhyGiiwa  
Cheever Griffin  

The"Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) 1s published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS a member of the Associated Press All reproduCtion nghts are reserved 
COLD WARM STA T/ONARY Pressure
®CD  f~~  ~  lTil  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  
V1a Assoctated Press Graph1csNet  

©1989 Accu-Weather. Inc  
G  EZ;J  
FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  

Yesterday's high: 35 Yesterday's low: 18 Nation's high: 83 (Woodland Hills, Calif.) Nation's low: -20 (Watertown, NY) 
Forecast: 
Mostly cloudy and cool today with a 30 percent chance of afternoon showers. Highs in the upper 30s. Mostly cloudy and not as cool tonight. Lows in the lower 30s. Partly sunny and cool Wednesday. Highs 
around 40. 
WORLD 

Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev chided Presi­dent Bush at their Malta summit for not granting visas to thousands of Soviet citizens who want to live in the United States. On the flight back to Moscow Bush raised the hu­man rights issue by giving Gorbachev a list of divided spouses the United States claims are separated by Soviet refusal to grant one or the other an exit visa. Soviet offi­cials have estimated 4-5 million citizens will leave the country under a new law permitting the departure of most people who want to leave. 
Three watercolor drawings by children's writer Beatrix Potter have been discovered in a Gloucestershire farm house in England and will be offered at auction Dec. 
14. The 1896 pictures of Cecily Parsley the Rabbit, a character in her Peter Rabbit books. have lain undiscov­ered in a picture album once owned by the writer. who died in 1943. 
Divers managed to block most leaks in an Israeli oil tanker Monday that sank after developing engine troubles and officials hoped to refloat the vessel before its cargo causes an ecological disaster. Up to 60 tons of the ship's 660 tons of heavy oil have polluted the waters off this Mediterranean resort since the tanker went down Thursday after it stalled because of engine problems and was swamped by high seas. 
The PLO's campaign to win recognition in the General Assembly as the provisional government of Palestine broke down Monday and negotiations shiftnd to finding a face-saving retreat, diplomats said.They at­tributed the failure to upgrade the PLO to observer-nation status in the General Assembly to shallow support, divi­sions within the Palestine Liberation Organization and a 
U.S. threat to stop contributing to the United Nations. 
NATIONAL 

The last obstacle between Leona Helmsley and sentencing was lifted Monday when a judge refused to set aside her tax evasion conviction. Mrs. Helmsley, owner of many luxury ho­tels, was convicted Aug. 30 of evading $1.2 million in federal taxes by charging personal expenses to her business empire. By denying a request 


to overturn the conviction and dismiss the charges, U.S. District Judge Walker cleared the way for her Dec. 12 sentencing. 
Sonic booms set off by a descending space shuttle created ground motion that showed earthquakes may shake Los :'-ngeles skyscrapers more violently than once thought, scientists said Monday.The researchers found that the shuttles' characteristic twin sonic booms thumped 400 high-rise buildings in downtown L.A. Build­ings 20 to 30 stories tall tend to sway baek and forth once every 2 to 3 seconds, making it possible that "in an earthquake, the Los Angeles basin would preferentially amplify ground motion," Calteeh said in a news release. 
It's the laugh. That obnoxious giggle that ends in a full-fledged snort. That's the mark of true nerd. Jeremy Kahn has it. lie is the founder, president and ideological spokesman for the newly formed Society of Nerds and Geeks (SONG) at Harvard University. With about 35 members, SONG meets weekly and fosters discussions on how to study better and improve academic standings. 
OF INTEREST 

Advent penance service will be given in Sacred Of Interests may be submitted to The Observer office Heart Crypt Church, 10 p.m. with Father Hichard Warner on the third floor of LaFortune Between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. as presider. Music will be provided by the Notre Dame weekdays. Of Interests are free, one-time events of inter­Folk Choir. There will be an opportunity for individual est to the student body in general. 
confession following the service. 
INDIANA 
A judge tossed out a sweeping motion to conduct secret pre-trial hearings on Monday in the case of a man charged with killing his wife while on an 8-hour prison furlough. Alan Math­eney is charged with murdering Lisa Bianco out­side her Mishawaka home. After the ruling, Ma­theney claimed that tapes of conversations rele­vant to his defense were missing. 
A state task force began a campaign Mon­day to convince Indiana residents not to drink and drive during the holiday season. The task force will mount a campaign of radio and televi­sion public service announcements, posters for workplaces and liquor stores and mailings to employers. One poster shows a household black­board with the message, "Gone to office party. Be home late. Love, Dad," written on it. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings tor December 4, 1989 
Volume in shares 

150.36 Million 

NYSE Index 194.07 "i} 0.41 S&P Composite 351.42 "i} 0.78 Dow Jones Industrials 2753.63 "i} 5.98 
Precious Metals Gold {7$12.50 to $401 .1 0 I oz. 
Silver{} 15.4¢ to $5.509 I oz. 
Source: AP 
ALMANAC 

On December 10: e In 1520: Martin Luther publicly burned the papal edict demanding that he recant, or faee excommunication. e In 1948: The United Na­
tions General Assembly adopted its Universal Declaration on Human Hights. e In 1958: The first domestic passenger jet flight took place in the United States as a Na­tional Airlines Boeing 707 flew 111 passengers from New York to Miami in about 2 1/2 hours. e In 1964: Civil rights activist Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. re­ceived the Nobel Peace Prize during ceremonies in Oslo, Norway. 
~-----------------­
Tuesday, December 5, 1989 page 3
The Observer 

Christmas benefit to raise money for Snite Museum 
Special to The Observer 
"A Dickens of a Christmas" is the theme for the 8th annual Christmas celebration to benefit the Snite Museum. The benefit will br. held Thursday Dec. 7 at 
6:30 p.m. in the museum. 
Entertainment for the evening will be provided by the Notre Dame Glee Club, under the di­rection of Carl Starn; Eddie Jarrett's Strolling Strings, and musician David James on the hammered dulcimer. 
Sponsors of the benefit. the Friends of the Snite, hope to raise $10,000 this year from the dinner and any additional donations will go towards art acquisition. 
Benefit guests will have the opportunity to participate in the selection of a work of art for the Snite. On view during the benefit will be a selection of important works for the mu­seum's decorative arts gallery. 
The guests will vote by ballot for one of three groups of art selections that they would like added to the collection. The ac­quisition of any of these objects will bring distinction to the Mu­seum's decorative arts collec­tion, according to Chief Curator Stephen Spiro. 
Among the selections are a silver-plated Austrian vase by Dagobert Peche, ca. 1918; a glass Austrian three-handled vase by Loetzware, ca. 1900; a porcelain French sugar bowl and creamer by Maurice Durfrene, ca. 1900; a stoneware and pewter German tankard by Peter Behrens, ca. 1906; and a glazed stoneware French vase by Emile Lenoble, ca. 1925. 
Additional contributions may enable the museum to acquire all three groups. 
This year's Christmas benefit dinner will give special honor to University of Notre Dame bene­factors Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Baer. Frederick Baer, a 
see SNITE I page 6 

Students earn tuition dollars through service 
By CRISTINA ORTIZ News Wnter 
Ninety-four Notre Dame stu­dents participated in a public service project set up by the Center for Social Concerns, this past summer, and in exchange for their commitment, received tuition funds. 
The Summer Service Project, initiated in 1980, is part of a memorial to James Andrews, a 1961 Notre Dame graduate who co-owned Universal Press Syndicate. "He was always con­cerned for the less fortunate of the community," said Sue Cun­ningham, coordinator of the Summer Service Projects and Urban Plunge programs. 
The CSC offers many public services ranging from tutoring elementary children to assisting in orphanages. 
Since its existence, the pro­gram has gained the enthusias­tic support of Notre Dame alumni clubs across the United States, said Cunningham. 
Many clubs pay a portion, if not all, of the student's stipends through the summer. The student is expected to de­vote 8 weeks of his/her summer to public service for the disad­vantaged. This is made possible through various agencies within the community. 
Through the combined efforts of the Andrews Memorial Pro­gram and the Notre Dame alumni clubs, the student re­ceives $1400 towards tuition, room and board. 
The selection process consists that it gives the participants a of an application along with chance to experience a different several interviews. "We are part of American Culture. Per­looking for students who have sonally, being of Irish descent had some experience in volun-and working in a predomi­teer work and have a sincere nantly hispanic community was concern for the under-privi-a 'hands on' emotional experi­leged," said Cunningham. ence," said Gretchen Reibold, a 
· 1989 participant. 
Upon completion of the pro­gram, students gather in the "The Notre Dame Summer fall to share sto!'ies and experi­Service Project provides bright, ences about their summer so­refreshed students ready to cia! work. give 110 percent," said Cun­
"It was a unique experience in ningham. 
Calllpus Ministry and You 

(N0PUS
-----------------------MINISW­
QUOTABLE QUOTES 
Man and Woman: Created beings, open and in need, in absolute proximity to God. partners with God in the creative act. 
Mariogy: Theological teaching about Mary. 
Mary: The young woman who, by turning her will and life over to God's mysterious care, played the primary human role in allowing for the union of the divine and human in the person of Jesus. 
Marriage: The loving commitment and union of a man and a woman for permanent physical and spiritual companionship, in which each furthers the growth and development of the other and their resulting family. 
Meditation: Stillness, joined with insight. Mercy: Compassionate love which surpasses justice. 
Miracle: A spiritual event which, while with the horizon of human experience, surpasses total human explanation and thus calls humans to a fuller sense of who they are and can be before their God. 
Morality: Behavioral system that is the logical response to God's free invitation to partnership and friendship. 
Mysticism: Where God and humanity meet as one. 
Nature: The permanent structure of a being. 
Obedience: Freely allowing God's will, as it is progressively understood, to take precedence over one's own. 
Original Sin: Human Nature. 
Paradise: Human Nature coupled with Divine Nature. Peace: God's gift of self and the conditions which arise when that gift is received. Perfection: Loving God above all else and one's neighbor as oneself. Poverty of spirit: Acceptance of life on God's terms. 
Poverty, material: Deprived of just access to life and life's possessions. Prayer: Loving response to God's loving invitation to be one with God. 
Redemption: Movement of humanity, made possible by the fact of Jesus' life, death and resurrection, from participation in human nature alone to participation in both human and divine natures. 
Religion: Humanity in relation with the Holy. Resurrection: The act of Jesus' life that clearly states that life goes beyond physical death. Salvation: Process of becoming one in being with God. Sexuality: a) Gender. b) Physical communication of love and creativity. Sin: The human condition of self-will and attachment which limits ones conscious contact with God. Soul: The essence or principle of human being. 
Spirit: The world of the soul. 
Spiritual: The realm of the soul. 
Transcendent: Having no limited sphere of being. 
Trinity: God's complete self-communication. 
Truth: All that ultimately is. 
Unity: All as one, with distinction but without demarcation. Virtue: Activation of the power to accomplish moral good. 
Will: The drive of being to actualize itself. 
Wisdom: A basic ordering of knowledge, whereby what is understood within the whole of creation. 
Yahweh: "I am the l-am." That power of being from which there is no recourse. God's own name. 
page 4 The Observer Tuesday, December 5, 1989 

EAST BEHLIN (AI') -East Germans outraged by the cor­ruption of ousted Communist Party leaders tried to storm se­cret police offices Monday to make certain evidence for criminal trials is not removed. 
Prosecutors block11d access by the former officials to evi­dencn that could be used against them in the widening corruption investigation. 
State television showed pic­tures of people joining police at luxurious government guest houses and at warehouses in East Berlin and Potsdam to block any efforts to remove documents. 
Officials appPaled for calm as p(Hlple tried to force their way into secret police offices in Er­furt. 
In Leipzig, where about 200,000 people attended a rally calling for German unification, 30 demonstrators were allowed inside the secret police head­quarters, including opposition leader Wolfgang Schnur. 
East Germany's official ADN news agency said the group was let in "after massive de­mands of demonstrators who had surrounded the building." It said the protesters presented their grievances and departed but 200 other demonstrators who refused to leave were 
WEDNESDAY, NOV. 29 

10:15 p.m.: An off-campus student reported the theft of his wallet from a jacket he left outside the racquetball court. His loss is estimated at $10. 
4 p.m.: Notre Dame Police responded to a two car accident on Juniper Road. No injuries were reported. 
4:15p.m.: A Pasquerilla West resident reported vandalism to her vehicle while it was parked in the 0·2 lot. The rear win­dow of her vehicle was broken some· lime between 1 and 3:15p.m. 
4:25p.m.: A resident of Lyons Hall re­ported that her vehicle had been vandal­ized while it was parked in the D·6 lot sometime between 11/22 and 11125. Damages are unknown at this time. 
5:45p.m.: Notre Dame Police cited a South Bend man for Exceeding the Posted Speed Limit on Ivy Road. The defendant had been travelling 52 mph in a 30 mph zone. 
THURSDAY, NOV. 30 

4:53 a.m.: A LaFortune employee re­ported vandalism ro the La Fortune Stu­dent Center. Unknown person(s) had damaged both the exterior and interior of the building. 
9 p.m.: Notre Dame Police received a report of four men selling perfume in Knott Hall. The men were stopped and escorted oft campus. 
permitted inside later to tour the building. 
Parts of the building were sealed off to prevent documents from being smuggled out and Schnur said citizens would take part in making sure the papers remained there. 
Wolfgang Schwanitz, new chief of national security, ordered flights to Romania halted because of reports that sensitive material was being smuggled to the Warsaw Pact ally, whose leader, Nicolae Ceausescu, has rejected reform. 
Officials said there was no 
proof documents were being 
sent there. Opposition sources 
said earlier that important 
documents were taken from 
party headquarters to Schoen­
feld airport for flights to Ro­
mania. 
Premier Hans Modrow. who 
emerged as the leading political 
figure one day after the entire 
Communist Party leadership re­
signed, was not in East Ger­
many. lie led a three-member 
delegation to the Warsaw Pact 
summit in Moscow 
At the huge Leipzig rally, the 
crowd applauded and cheered 
as speakers called for a united 
Germany. Demonstrators 
waved dozens of West German 
flags in front of the secret po­
lice headquarters. One flag was 
draped over a surveillance 

Advent Penance Service Tuesday, December 5, 1989 !O:OOpm Sacred Heart Crypt Church 
Fr. Richard Warner, CSC, Presider music provided by the Notre Dame Folk Choir 
Opportunity for individual confession following the service. 
Hall Penance Services:  
Fisher Hall Keenan Hall Lewis Hall SiegfriedHall SorinHall  December 13 December 6 December 5 December 12 December 7  ll:OOpm lO:OOpm 9:00pm lO:OOpm !O:OOpm  
•OFFICE OF 0MPUS MINISTRY  
lJnlwlslly or -. Domt NDflt Domt IN 48554  

SECURITY BEAT 
FRIDAY, DEC. 1 
5:45 p.m.: A Farley Hall resident re­ported that her car had been vandalized while it was parked in the D-2 lot. Dam· ages are estimated to be $200. 
6:55p.m.: A Keenan Hall resident re· ported the theft of his book bag from the North Dining Hall lobby. The theft oc­curred sometime between 12:45 and 2 
p.m. His loss is estimated to be $77. 
9 p.m.: A South Bend woman was cited by Notre Dame Police for Exceed· ing the Posted Speed Limit. The defen· dant had been travelling 47 mph in a 30 mph zone. 
10:20 p.m.: A resident of University Vii· lage reported the theft of a car cover from a fence near their apartment build­ing. Their loss is estimated at $30. 
10:44 p.m.: Notre Dame Police cited a Mishawaka resident for speeding on Ju­niper Road. The defendant had been travelling 42 mph in a posted 25 mph zone. 
camera mounted outside the headquarters. 
It was the third week that calls for German reunification dominated the Monday night Leipzig protests, and the de­mands were more pronounced than ever. 
ADN reported 60,000 people rallied in Karl-Marx-Stadt, 10,000 in Schwerin and tens of thousands in Dresden. 
President Bush indicated at a special session of NATO leaders in Brussels that a single Ger­many loyal to NATO would.sat­isfy both the German yearning for unity and a nation's right to self-determination, but added later to reporters: 
"We are not trying to accel­erate the process. It's better to let things move on their own." 
The Christian Democrats. one of four parties allied with the Communists, said they were cutting those ties, East German television reported. It said they demanded that Egon Krenz, who resigned as Communist Party chief Sunday along with the Politburo, also give up the largely ceremonial post of president. 
Brigitte Zimmermann, spokeswoman for the party's interim governing committee. a reform-minded group of 25 people, appealed for calm to avoid "anarchy and chaos." 
SATURDAY, DEC. 2 

5:34 a.m.: Notre Dame Security ap· prehended one of three people respon· sible for the toilet papering of South Quad trees and the statue of Father Sorin. 
SUNDAY,DEC. 3 

8:39a.m.: A car belonging to a Keenan Hall resident had been vandalized by unknown person(s) while the vehicle was parked in the D-2 lot. 
9:46a.m.: A resident of Grace Hall re· ported that a vending machine, the first floor rest rooms, and a phone had been vandalized in the vending room of Grace Hall. The vandal(s) removed all of the contents from the vending machine sometime between 4 and 9:15a.m. 
3:19p.m.: A resident of St. Edward's Hall reported that his car had been van­dalized while it had been parked in the D·2 lot sometime between 1211 and 12/3. Damages are estimated to be $300. 
7 p.m.: A Notre Dame employee re· ported damage to a first floor window of lhe Administration Building. Unknown person(s) had thrown a snow ball lhrew the window. 
Hoosier Lottery seeks 
I I I 
an 1ncrease 1n w1nners 
INDIANAPOLIS (API -The lloosier Lottery will change the format of its weekly television game show to improve the odds of winning the top $1 million prize and offer a more gem~r­ous consolation prize. lottery officials announced Monday. 
Lottery Director Jack craw­ford said the changes, which will go into effect this Satu r­day, will reduce the finalist's odds of winning the top priz1~ to one in 2.7, compared with the old format's odds of one in four. 
Under tlw new format. the fi­nalist who fails to win anything in the final round will walk away with a $25,000 consola­tion prize, regardless of when the player drops out in the game's last round. 
Crawford said the changes were made to respond to viewer comments and to make the show more generous with prizes in light of higher-than­expected lottery ticket sales. 
"We feel that those people who participate by buying tick­ets need to be rewarded with better odds on winning our big prizes and increased generosity on behalf of the Hoosier Lot­tery," said Crawford. 
Through six weeks of the game show, only one person has won the top prize. Marilyn Bonavita of Indianapolis did that last Saturday. Crawford said viewers who have writtlm to him in recent weeks want to see more big winners and morn prizes awarded. 
Under the new format. the show should produce a $1 mil­

lion winner 1wery three weeks, 
said Crawford. 
With sales of $1 instant lot­

tery tickets averaging 12 mil­
lion to I:~ million weekly, or 
about twiee what was expeetPd, 
tlw lottery is "in a position to 
be more~ gerwrous" and still 
follow its genm·al guidl)lirw of 
paying out in priz1~s about !iO to 
!i!i JWrCimt of gross revenue, 
said Crawford. 
"We don't think this will in­

terfen~ with the prize structure 
at all, 1wen with tlw expm:tnd 
dedirw in sal1~s." said Craw­
ford. 
Tlw lotWry. which began to sPII tirkds Ort. I3, expects to reach I 00 million in total sales sometinw this week. 
Under the new format, the fi­nalist among six game-show contestants could win the $1 million prize on the first. ser­ond or third picks of the final round. Under tlw old format. the $I million prize could be won only after the finalist pro­grnssed through the first two st<>ps of the final round. 
Tlw design of tlw final round will rnmain basically the sanw. The player will face a board with the numbers 1-4. 
llowevnr, instead of dollar signs undPr thren numbPrs and a dollar sign with a slash mark under the other number. thnw numbers will cover up spneific prize winnings -$50,000, $100,000 and $1 million. 
Thn fourth number will cover a dollar sign with a slash. Pick­ing that at any point in the final round will end thn game. 
---------C---~----c--c-c------------------------­
Tuesday, December 5, 1989 
The Observer page 5 
Czechs reject government, want free elections 
PRAGUE. Czechoslovakia (AP) tional flags and applauded op­Premier Bohumil Urban met -More than 150,000 demon­position demands for elections with two opposition represen­strators chanting "They must by July and a second general tatives to negotiate a new meet­go!" rejected the new Commu­strike on Dec. 11 if there is no ing with Communist Premier nist-dominated government new government by Sunday. Ladislav Adamec later this Monday and demanded free "Resign! Resign!" they week. elections in a roaring show of chanted. Frantisek Pitra, the premier support for the opposition. The turnout at the rally and of the Czech republican gov­
Also on Monday, thousands smaller ones elsewhere was a ernment, asked for more time of tourists from Czechoslovakia dear signal to the government to consider changes at the re­freely visited the West for the that the opposition has massive public level, postponing an an­lirst time in decades after the popular support for its de­nouncement originally sched­government lifted most travel mands for real democracy. uled for Monday night. restrictions. They were protesting the new The governments of the Czech 
Demonstrators massed in coalition government named and Slovak republics control central Wenceslas Square for Sunday. which brought only five key areas such as justice and the first time since Nov. 27, non-Communists into the 21-education in their respective when a nationwide general member Cabinet and left Com­regions. strike forced the government to munists in control of all key Eleven of the 17 ministers grant historic concessions. ministries. Thirteen were under Pitra in the Czech repub­That demonstration capped 11 holdovers from the previous lic have submitted their resig­straight days of rallies in Communist Cabinet. nations, including the unpopu­Czechoslovakia. In an indication the govern­lar ministers of education and 
Monday's demonstrators ment may respond to demands justice, the state news agency waved red, white and blue na-for new ministers, First Deputy CTK reported. 
Chief S&L regulator resigns post 
WASHINGTON (t\PJ -M. coin to remain open until last move forward in dealing with Danny Wall, under fire for his April even though government the savings and loan crisis." He handling of what may become examiners had recommended in made no mention of Wall's ac­the costliest savings and loan May 1987 that it be closed. The cusations. failure in history, resigned bailout of the institution is ex­Monday as the government's pected to cost taxpayers up to Wall's mentor, Sen. Jake chief S&L mgulator. $2.5 billion. Garn, H-Utah, who brought him 
In his letter of resignation to In turn, Wall criticized to Washington in 1975 as his President Bush. Wall com­Gonzalez on Monday, saying he chief aide, said Wall was "a plained he was being made "a "resorted to corruption of the man of unquestionably solid scapegoat" for the problems of truth" in trying to force the character and integrity" but the entire industry and de­regulator out. was "a convenient target for nounced a "steady stream of Wall's departure brought ex­the critics who sought a scape­one-sided information" from pressions of relief from goat for the serious problems congressional hearings con­Congress and the Bush admin­in the thrift industry." cerning the collapse of Lincoln istration. Savings and Loan Association Treasury Secretary Nicholas of Irvine, Calif. Gonzalez said in a statement, Brady, whose department over­
Rep. Henry Gonzalez, D­"I know this was a difficult de­sees Wall's Office of Thrift Su­Texas, chairman of the House cision, but I commend him for pervision, commended the regu­Banking Committee, has taking the action so that the air lator's decision to step down as blamed Wall for allowing Lin-may be cleared and we may "public spirited." 
· A parliamentary commission reported on its investigation into police brutality against student demonstrators on Nov. 
17. It concluded that police used inappropriate force and seriously injured peaceful demonstrators. It said some police on duty then may face charges of assault and abuse of office. 
According to CTK, the report 
blamed "high political figures" 
for the repression, which "was 
one of the decisive reasons" for 
subsequent mass protests. CTK 
listed no names. 
The hourlong Prague rally, 
.broadcast live on state radio and television, was a tri­umphant show of national unity in the fight for democracy. That unity was symbolized at the end, when protest singer Karel Kryl, who has lived in ex­ile in the West for years, and Karel Gott, the nation's best­known officially sanctioned pop singer, led the singing of the national anthem. 

The people loudly cheered Civic Forum spokesman Vaclav Maly when he announced that the opposition hoped to field its own candidates in elections. 
"Thanks for your help and support!" Maly shouted. "We need it now more than ever." 
"That's it! That's it!" the crowd chanted back in a roar­ing show of support for Civic Forum, the nation's leading opposition movement, and its counterpart in Slovakia, called Public Against Violence. 
Adamec has promised "radical changes" with the new government but has given no specific pledge of free elections. 
Saint Mary's to assess campus smoking policy 
By KATIE MOORE can lead to tension between News Writer the resident advisors and the residents. 
Implementation of a cam­The rights of smokers pus-wide smoking policy was conflicting with; the· rights of the focus of last night's non-smokers was the main Saint Mary's Board of Stu· concern of the board. The dent Affairs meeting. board did not come to a 
The Board of Student Af­final decision but resolved to fairs discussed the problems continue the discussion. of leaving smoking policies to the discretion of individ­Participation in the Drive ual halls and/or sections. 1n to Cure Paralysis was also some halls. resident advisors encouraged. The event is are left to decide if smoking being held in Angela Athletic regulations should be im­Facility Saturday, Dec. 9. plemented. Participants take part in one 
Some .resident advisors hour of aerobics for a $1 feel this individual discretion donation to the drive. 

Lecture 

BISHOP THOMAS GUMBLETON 
Auxiliary Bishop of Detroit President of Pax Christi USA 
11 CAN WE MAKE PEACE WITH VIETNAM?11 
Tuesday, December 5, 1989 
8:00 p.m. 

Center for Social Concerns (Multipurpose Room) 
Sponsored by THE INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE STUDIES 
Open to the Public -No Admission Charge 
.------------------------.----------------------------------­
Tuesday, December5, 1989

page 6 The Observer 
Bush addresses NATO on summit outcomes 
BHUSSELS. Belgium lAP) -trade. They intend to meet 
President Bush said Monday it's again in the United States in 
too early to proclaim an end to the second half of .June. 
thn Cold War. but added that At his news conference, Bush 
Mikhail Gorbachev's acceptance said, "We stand at the thresh­of sweeping reform in Eastern old of a new era... " but declined Europe "absolutely mandates to assert the Cold War has new thinking" by the West. ended as Gorbadwv suggested. Wrapping up his weekend 
summit journey with a stop at "That day hasn't arrived," NATO Headquarters, Bush also the president said when asked told reporters the United States about Gorbachev's statement 
would maintain "significant declaring an nnd to the "epoch military forces in Europe as of the Cold War." long as our allies desire our 
presence." Barring a utopian develop­
The pmsident said he wants a ment, Bush said, "the United tnmty making initial euts in su­States must stay involved" by perpowers conventional forces keeping troops massed against in Europe "in the bank" before Warsaw Pact forces. seeking deeper reductions. He told NATO lnaders he hoped a "If you want to project out multinational summit could be 100 years. or take some years 
convened in Europe next sum­off of that, you can look to a mer to sign such an accord. utopian day when there might 
Conventional forces aside, the be none (U.S. troops in Eu­Uniwd States and Soviet Union ropn)," he said. "But as I are negotiating a proposed 50 pointed out to them (NATO percent cut in long-range nu­leadnrs), that day hasn't ar­dear weapons. as well as a rived -and thny agree with proposed ban of chemical me." weapons. 
Bush was in a buoyant mood Dutch Prime Minister Ruud as he neared the end of a jour­Lubbers said hn was impressed ney that took him to last week­by the United States' end's summit with Gorbachev. "extraordinarily positive atti­
Asked if it hadn't been risky The president spoke as Gor­Union and the four other War­unification. tude" toward ewmts in Europe. to venture out in a small boat bachev was convening a meet­saw Pact nations condemned Bush and Gorbachev leaders in the storm-tossed harbor in ing of a radically reordered their own invasion of agreed at an unprecedented "It has nothing to do with a Malta during the weekend. he Warsaw Pact in Moscow to re­Czechoslovakia in 1968. In joint news conference before 'we are pulling out' attitude," replied, "Hot dogging? ... No. view the weekend summit. Leipzig, East Germany, about leaving Malta that their meeting he told reporters. "On the con­You know these charismatic, The dramatic change in Eu­200,000 demonstrators broke heralded a new era of coop­trary. they are again promising macho, visionary guys. They'll rope continued uninterrupted into wild rounds of applause as eration in East-West relations, a meaningful presence (in Eu­do anything." during the day. as the Soviet speakers called for German re-including arms control and rope)." 

Gramm-Rudman tax cuts preclude a 'peace dividend' 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -De­spite a declaration Monday by !~resident Bush that he doesn't expect a "peace dividend" to result from reduced East-West tensions. many members of Congress are urging heftier spending on domestic programs as the military budget is re­duced. 
"We have a lot of demands at home, and there's no question about that," Bush said at a news conference in Brussels at the end of trip to a summit with Soviet leader Mikhail Gor­hachev. "But I think it is pre­maturn to speak as some are at horne about a peace dividnnd ­take a lot of money out of de­fense and put it into othnr wor­thy causes." 
The president said the reason there can be no such windfall was that the Gramm-Hudman deficit-reduction law requires that he produce a budget for fiscal 1991 containing a short­fall of no more than $64 billion. 
The deficit for this budget year, which ends Sept. 30, is projected at about $110 billion. Bush will present his proposed budget to Congress on Jan. 22. 
"There just isn't a lot of, quote, excess money, unquote, floating around there," Bush told a news conference in Brus­sels, Belgium. 
Although members of Congress are split over the question, many believe it is time to impose deep cuts on the nearly $290 billion defense budget, which comprises about one-fourth of the government's $1.2 trillion annual spending. 
They cite three reasons: 

• 
The easing of Cold War ten­sions 

• 
The need to shrink the deficit 

• 
A desire to replenish domestic programs that have been hit hard by Reagan-era spending cuts. 


"The more you cut from the military. the less damage you do to domestic programs to meet Gramm-Rudman targets," Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., said Monday. 
Frank has been a leader of a group of liberals pressing con­gressional leaders to slash about $20 billion off the Pen­tagon's budget and redistribute most of it among health, hous­ing, education and other do­mestic programs. 
But it is not just liberals who want to reduce the Defense De­partment's coffers. 
Conservative Hep. Sonny Montgomery, D-Miss .. chair­man of the House Veterans Af­fairs Committee, told reporters Monday that he would like to see next year's defense spend­ing frozen at 1990 levels and envisions savings by eventually bringing some U.S. troops home from Europe. 
"If we do have these extra monies I would like for them to go into the national debt and take about half the money and use it for domestic programs in the United States," Mont­gomery said. 

Since Frank's group made its proposals, Defense Secretary Dick Cheney has begun consid­ering plans to shrink expected military spending rates by up to $180 billion over the next three to five years. 
Such a reduction sounds dramatic, but it would in fact do little to change the direction Pentagon spending has taken in recent years. 
Since 1986, military spending has decreasnd by an average of 3 percent annually when infla­tion is taken into account, even though the actual amount of money going to the Pentagon has incrnasnd each year. 
Snite 
continued from page 3 
practicing attorney with his own law firm since 1953, was a board m1~mber of the Friends of the Snite from 1982 to 1987 and was responsible for writing the organization's by-laws. 
lie also serves on the mu­seum's acquisition committee, a post he has held for more than a decade. 
Grace 
continued from page 1 
Certain outer doors some­times stick in snowy conditions, and are difficult to close prop­erly. said Assistant Hector Vic­tor Krebs. Although the HA's secure the doors at 2 a.m. each night, students coming in after parietals who are unaware of the problem might fail to close a door completely. If this hap­pened, anyone could have gained access without a key, despite that the doors were locked. explained Krebs. 
Security, according to Krebs, "is a major issue here. The dorms are unguarded after the RA's are off-duty. All sorts of 
things could happen, especially in Grace and Flanner, the only (men's) dorms on campus where no students live on the first floors. except for one as­sistant rector in one of the two wings. Anything could happen on the first floor, especially in the other wing, and no one knows about it." 
Steps will be taken to insure all doors fully close, even in snow, and to guarantee that they remain locked. The possi­bility of an all-night monitor for Grace and other men's dorms will also be raised. Lardner said. 

"This is something more in­tense than ordinary dormitory vandalism," lw added. "We don't know what to make of it." 
Among the Baers' contribu­tions to the Snite are watercol­ors by Max Ernst and an im­portant pen and ink drawing by Odilon Hedon. 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
man Election Committee would retain its name and become a committee under the direction 
ttf the Judicial Council. The amnndment will be voted on next week by both senate and the Hall Presidents Council. 
Orange Bowl tickets must be purduts1~d by 5 p.m. today. said Jon Cassidy. director of Student Activities, at tlw meeting. 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
News Copy Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement to Matt Gallagher (239-5303) no later than noon on Friday, December 8, 1989. A decision will be posted in The Observer office b Monda December 11 1989 



Tuesday, December 5, 1989 
The Observer page 7 

Fighting stalls evacuation of foreigners from Manila 
MANILA, Philippines (AP) -Fighting intensified today between rebels and loyal forces in the Makati financial dis­trict, where about 2,000 foreigners, in­cluding more than 200 Americans, have been trapped in hotels for five days. 
Efforts to evacuate foreigners held by the n~bels appeared to have stalled early today. 
A 60mm mortar round slammed into a squatter settlement near the Makati Medical Center about 6 a.m. (5 p.m. EST Monday). Ten people were taken to the hospital, including a 6-year-old girl who died. 
Two bombs exploded in the capital latn Monday, wounding two people. It was unclear if thPy were related to the coup attempt. which began Friday and has killed at least 71 people and woundnd more than 500. 
The U.S. Embassy recommended this morning that Americans living in Makati remain in their homes but avoid uppnr floors. lest they become targets for snipers. 
At lf~ast three people were killed in Makati Monday and 15, including one American. were wounded by sniper fire and shells. 
Troops loyal to the government of President Corazon Aquino, backed by three armored personnel carriers, be­gan moving under cover of fire toward the hotel district where the foreigners are. 
"Arc we going to win?" a colonel asked his men at the end of a briefing. "Yes. sir!" they shouted. 
IIc told his men not to fire unless they had a rebel in their sights. 
The Japanese Embassy recommended that Japanese citizens living in parts of the posh Makati district not under rebel tontrol leave for safer areas of Manila. 
EPA proposes restrictions on cancer-linked fungicides 
WASliiNGTON (AP)-The Environmental Protection Agency called for curbs Monday on the pesticide EBDC, saying widespread use of the chemical on scores of crops from apples to tomatoes poses an unrea­sonable cancer risk. 
The EPA proposed elimi­nating the use of the EBDC family of fungicides on 45 crops. but said its continued use on another 10 food products, including grapes, onions and cranberries, "do not present an unreasonable risk" to consumers. 
The proposed restrictions would eliminate from agri­cultural use about 80 per­cent to 90 percent of the es­timated 18 million pounds of EBDCs that are sold annu­ally in the United States, ac­cording to government and industry officials. 
EBDCs, or ethylene bis­dithiocarbamate, are a group of pesticides that have been used since the 1930s to control fungi and protect a wide variety of food crops against damage from mold, mildew and fungal diseases. The group includes the spe­cific fungicides maneb, mant cozeb and metiram. 
Environmentalists accused the EPA of moving too slowly, noting that no final regulation on EBDCs is likely to be issued until early 1991, and maintained that remain­ing uses being allowed by the EPA still pose serious health concerns. ·.• 
It estimated 500 Japanese remained in Makati, including about 300 trapped in the hotels. 
A statement telephoned to news or­ganizations from a rebel spokesman, Capt. Albert Yen, said the insurgents would release the foreigners to dispel suspicions they were being held hostage. 
The statement said the foreigners would be free to leave the hotels at 10 
a.m. Tuesday and would be taken to Manila's airport aboard shuttle buses. 
Yen said the move did not indicate the rebels were about to end their bid to oust Mrs. Aquino. 
"That's the farthest thing that we could do," he said. "We pledged our lives to this cause. We will hold the line to the last drop of our blood." 
About 400 mutineers from the elite Scout Rangers were holding 22 build­ings in the Makati district, where many foreign embassies and residences of foreign diplomats and businessmen lie. 
About 400 rebels continued to occupy Mactan Air Base in Cebu, 350 miles south of Manila. Their leader refused to surrender and threatened to blow up the base's planes. 
President Bush called Mrs. Aquino on arriving back in Washington from the Malta superpower summit and follow­ing a visit with NATO allies in Belgium to express concern for the lives of Americans in the Makati hotels. 
White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater quoted Bush as telling Mrs. Aquino: "'I understand some Americans are in the hotels.... Can we get those people out? I'm very concerned about their lives and their safety."' 
"She assured him they were doing ev­erything possible to protect American 
lives," Fitzwater said. 
Greenpeace quelled in sea melee 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -The Navy outmuscled Green­peace anti-nuclear protesters Monday, crippling their vessels and towing them out of an area where they tried unsuccessfully to halt the test launch of a Tri­dent 2 missile. 
The high seas drama took place in the Atlantic 50 miles off the Florida coast just be­fore the nuclear-powered sub­marine Tennessee unleashed the $26.5 million missile on a test that put the Trident 2 pro­gram back on track after two explosive failures in the first three undersea launches. 
"We did a perfect launch, just beautiful," Vice Adm. Roger Bacon, commander of the At­lantic Submarine Fleet, said at a news conference. 
The Navy said its ships had to "shoulder" aside a large ship carrying protesters, and cap­ture and tow away two high­speed rafts called Zodiacs from the launch area. 
Greenpeace USA peace ac­tivists said the Navy rammed ship, aimed fire hoses 
The Main Laundromat 
1518 North Main Street Mishawaka 
259-6322 
WASHERS ONLY 85¢ 
Tuesday: FREE Tide in every wash Wednesday: Drop-off -40¢ per pound Thursday: Tanning -$3.00 per session 
Pick-up. wash. dry, fold. deliver SAME DAY SERVICE 


A wounded soldier is taken out from the general headquarters camp after the rebel soldiers who seized the camp's clinic allowed them to go Sunday. The rebels stormed the camp at dawn Sunday and at least three people were killed and several others injured. . 
down its smoke stacks to stop its engines and that Navy divers had sliced the fuel lines and punctured the pontoons on the Zodiacs. 
Bacon said hoses were used and that Navy sailors in rafts cut the fuel lines on one of the Zodiacs after the other broke down in heavy seas. 
Three Navy helicopters made life even more miserable for the two men in each of the Zodiacs by hovering overhead, making already choppy seas even chop­pier. 
Shannon Fagan, a spokeswoman for the protesters, said a Navy ship, the 254-foot submarine support ship USS Grasp, left two gashes in the hull of the USS Greenpeace, a 190-foot ocean­going tug. She said the largest, about 3 feet long, was stuffed with mattresses to keep water out. 
Cmdr. Deborah Burnette, a Navy spokeswoman, said Navy officials at the scene reported only one hole about 1 foot in diameter in the Greenpea-ce hull. 

"This is a terrible outrage," said Peter Bahouth, executive director of Greenpeace USA, in a statement. "This is an unbri­dled act of aggression against a peaceful protest in interna­tional waters." 
Fagan said Greenpeace was considering legal action against the Navy. 
Greenpeace had successfully used the ship and Zodiacs to block a Trident 2 launch at­tempt July 28. But the Navy was ready for them this time. 
"We were more prepared to­day because we looked at what they tried to do on July 28, and we used the minimum force necessary today to clear the area," Bacon said. 
Once the protesters' vessels were muscled outside the 5,000-yard diameter safety cir­cle, the Tennessee sent the 44­foot missile shooting out of a tube in the deck. It broke the Atlantic surface, ignited and propelled a dummy warhead package to an ocean target several thousand miles away. 

r-~-----------------------------------------------------~----------------­
Viewpoint
page 8 
The Obse~er 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chfls Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Cocc1a R1ch Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager Alison Cocks Accent Editor John Blas1 Systems Mgr Bernard Brennmkmeyer Photo Editor Enc Ba1ley OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chnst1ne Gill Controller Anne Lindner 
The Observer 1s the 1ndependent newspaper publ1shed by the students of the Un~versi· ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College It does not necessarily rellect the pol­Icies of the adm1mstrat1on of e1ther 1nSt1tuhon The news rs reported as accurately and ob­feCtlvely as poss1ble Unsrgned ed1toflals represent the op1n10n of the maJOrity of the lollow1ng· Ed1tor-1n-Ch,ef Manag1ng Ed1tor. Execut1ve News Ed1tor, V1ewpo1nt Ed1tor. Sports Editor, Accent Ed1tor. Photo Ed1tor Sa1nt Mary's Ed1tor Commentanes, letters, and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of lh!!" authors Column space IS available to all members of the communrty and lhe free expression of vary1ng op1n1ons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 
Tuesday, December 5, 1989 
L£1' 11£ GET TKIS 
S'f'RAIGHT: 'THE ONLY TH IlliG '(au WAH'l' FoR CHRIS'TMAS 15 Sot1£0NE TO vo YouK LAUNDRY? 

I HEY, 11!A'n WHA'f J~..__,,•.-... I WAS GiONN A ASK FOR. 
I 
.. 

EDITORIAL 
Laundry tragedy calls for fresh start 
The Joss of St. Michael's Laundry and the shortage of coin-operated machines on campus has been t~e topic of several humorous columns and cartoons m The Observer lately. But as paper deadlines and finals approach, the shortage of machines on campus will not seem quite so funny. 
Unfortunately, with the loss of St. Michael's laundry service, there are just too few machines for the men and women of this campus to use. The Administration ha~ done little to solve the problem in the past few weeks and seems unlikely to remedy it soon. We rec­ommend two steps to remedy the immediate machine shortage and offer several suggestions for the plan­ning of the new laundry facility. 
First, to remedy the immediate shortage of ma­chines, many of the women's dorms have set aside hours when men are permitted to use their machines. We suggest that those women's dorms that have not set aside times for male students follow suit. 
Second, the University will have to increase the num­ber of machines on campus before next semester. We suggest that the University install washers and dryers in all of the men's dorms over Christmas Break to al­leviate the problem. 
Third, we recognize the need for institutional laun­dry at Notre Dame, but recommend several changes to the planners of the new facilities. 
Laundry service should be optional for both men and women. We realize the necessity for institutional laun­dry but fail to see the necessity of imposing a $50.00 fee on all male students when some do not use the facility. 
In addition, the old laundry policy was sexist: men's laundry was picked up from their dorms while women wanting to use the laundry facility had to lug their bags down to St. Michael's themselves. This policy must be changed for the new facility. 
Furthermore, as some of the men's dorms do not have space for a sufficiently large laundry room to ac­commodate their residents, we suggest that the new facility include coin-operated machines on the premises.
In the meantime, let's hope the University buys us new laundry machines for Christmas. 
OOONESBURY 
A t1JT 0t= YOU HAVe BEEN 
/NvrJl.V&l/ IN PReVIOUS COUP 
A77EirlP75 A6AIN5TtmVfi?AL­
NOOt:64. 07H!1RS AR8 FIRST­
TlM/3 COM3PIRA7CRS. AL.L­AR/3 tu/31.aYY!/3 I 
.......___ 
LETTERS 

Helping the needy offers valuable lessons 
Dear Editor: 
For four years i have been a student at Notre Dame, but today I learned one of my most important lessons, and it didn't happen in a classroom. Today I, along with 15 other Navy ROTC midshipmen, worked at the Shelter for the Homeless and I learned a lesson about real life. 
Formerly I had been quick to complain and feel sorry for my­self. I got upset if I had to wait more than a few minutes in a dining hall line. If my home­work caused me to get less sleep than I desired, disgrun­tled I became. I worried be­cause I might not be able to af­ford the boots and bindings to go with my new skis. I realize now what a fool I have been. 
I arrived at the Shelter around 11 p.m., after most of the people were asleep. But my friend, Don, and I helped a paraplegic man take a shower and get ready for bed. Bill, as I shall call this man, had little use of his legs and had trouble moving. His legs and feet were deformed, and the smell of his clothing was awful. 
When I first saw him I felt very uncomfortable and wanted to leave, but Dan had been helping him before I got there and had to leave, so it was my turn to help Bill. 
As I helped him get dressed after his shower, I began to talk with him and soon was telling him about my family and friends. He began to trust me and started asking about what I wanted to do after college. The more I talked with Bill, the more I realized that he was a human being. just like me. Even though he was handicapped and I was not, we were both children of God, and I realized that he deserved to be treated as such. What really made an impression on me is that the whole time I spent with Bill he never complained. Here was a 44-year-old handicapped man with no family, little money. and no home, and unlike my­self, he did not look for things to get upset about. 

I watched television and mad periodicals. so l was aware of the plight of the homeless in Amerka. But until today I n1wnr really understood what it meant to be in that situation. My eyes havn dPfinitely bcnn opened and I want to give morn of my time to help others. We all think we have so many things to do, such as study. but why not help those in need, in­stead of watching a movie or playing video games'? 
Every one of us has been blessed, for we arc able to at­tend a great university. But when we sit down for dinner we should thank the Lord that we have strong minds and bodies, a place to live, and enough money to keep us comfortable. l will do this, but in addition I will give thanks that l was for­tunate enough to meet Bill; for I will never forget what I have learned from him. 
Patrick Kujawa Flanner 1/all Nov. 18. 1989 

Honor Code receives midpoint evaluation 
Dear Editor: 
The University of Notre Dame initiated a four-year experi­mental Academic Code of Honor in the spring semester of 1988. As we reach the halfway point of this experimental period, the University Academic Code of Honor Committee would like to express thanks to those who have contributed their sugges­tions and provided feedback. But two years remain in this experiment -time for changes to take place between now and 1992. 
So, at this midpoint. the committee would like to ask for further student and faculty in­put. To facilitate the opportu­nity to provide input, the committee has planned a Code of Honor Open Forum. This fo­rum will take place tonight from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Dooley Room on the first floor of LaFortune. 
The students and faculty who comprise the committee will be present to answer any ques­tions about the Code of Honor. but more importantly, the committee will be available so that issues of concern and sug­gestions for improvement can be expressed. 

The primary purpose in pro­viding this Open Forum is for those of us on the committee to become more edueated about student and faculty opinion. We are looking forward to hearing opinions from the members of the Notre Dame community on how the Code of Honor is pro­gressing. 
Melissa Smith 
Chairperson 

University llcademic Code of 
1/onor Committee 
Dec. 4. 1989 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
8/U.PR/CE, 
AS50CIA7lf0 Pf?b55.60T 
A 5TAR:r 
PAT8 ON 
?HAP 
/ 
H&Y, CHieF; lXJ YOU MINP? 
7HI5 15A 
PRIVATe 
JIA~CCT,fHr.:. I 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'The great sin is the sin of disbelief in the potential powers of the human soul. To know oneself and not be untrue is the 
essence of living.' 
Mother Teresa 
/Z-S 
-------------------------~~--------------------------------------------------.~ 
Tuesday, December 5, 1989 
Viewpoint 
page 9 

Politics deserve the primary role in education 
letes attending our school. how is it possible for other less
By Terence Coyne 
sport-oriented extracurriculars 
to flourish? 

I believe that more political Many of the former high activity is needed on our cam­school varsity athletes partici­pus in order to prepare us for pated in other activities, aside life in the real world. Notre from sports. but those activities Dame is noticeably deficient in were necessarily secondary 
lhis area and no actions are because of time constraints. occurring which lead me to be­This may not have been true for lieve that the situation will all people, myself included, but change in the near or distant I believe that it was true for 
future. Thus. I have outlined a most high school varsity stu­
few suggestions which I believe. dent-athletes. Thus, when these having a politically astute stu­classroom than in it. following through on its teach­
if implemented. will increase di­students come to Notre Dame, 
dent body that they admit so Therefore, with more free ings? By coming in 104 out of versity and political activity on they either use their extra time many former athletes? time, it is likely that more activ­more than 200 schools in the 
our campus. to participate in athletic activi­Next, I suggest that the ities will flourish and more area of financial assistance? · 
More than eighty percent of ties or spend time on their provost lighten the class load learning outside the classroom The advantages to the econom­
all the students at Notre Dame heavy course load. from five to four or lessen the will occur. Is it that our admin­ically underprivileged students 
were varsity athletes in high Admitting fewer students credit load so that some istration believes with more and to the student body would 
school. This is an amazing whose primary high school ex­semesters we do not have to free time our "idle hands will be be enormous. Notre Dame statistic, but it is a double­tracurricular activity was take five classes. Why? I believe the work place of the devil?" should practice what it edged sword which can be more sports will diversify the student that having five classes does Idle hands are not the work 
preaches.harmful than helpful. body and increase participation not give us much free time for place of the devil, they are the Notre Dame is a great uni­
It is good because it creates in non-athletic activities. extracurricular activities. If place of creativity and new versity, but it is not without its 
an environment where many Athletics is important, but I do this suggestion were taken to­ideas. imperfections. All concerned 
former varsity athletes can not believe that it deserves the gether with the previous idea My final suggestion is some­students should continually at­compete in our Non-Varsity primary role that it plays at more students would have free thing that Notre Dame is be­tempt to make our school bet­Notre Dame. If we are going to
Athletic department. Speaking time to participate in politi­ginning to work on, but needs ter. Perhaps it is not our fault 
as a former varsity athlete who be prepared for life after col­cally-oriented activities. A to speed up. Many qualified the situation is the way it is,has competed in NVA activities, lege, we should be exposed to heavy class load is important high-school students from very 
but it is our fault if we do 
I can attest that these activities different political ideas, not because it readies us for the poor backgrounds cannot come nothing to change it. are well organized and exciting. just different sports. Is it be­rigors of life after college; but I to Notre Dame because they Terence Coyne is a sophomoreYet. with so many former ath-cause the University is afraid of have learned more outside the cannot pay for it. This should government major. 

U.S. foreign policy loses sight of moral vision 
By Joseph L. Novak not always been so purposeless. day reconciliation between East involved in the murders. Luther King, Jr. would have In the not so distant past there and West would come. Today, This lack of moral leadership been disappointed. out of his The Jesuit theologian and in­were leaders who sought to Kennedy would not pause to would not have been duplicated love for this country and its ternational theorist John move American foreign policy gloat over a putative victory for by Robert Kennedy. At the ideals, by our failure to do 
Courtiwy Murray once noted towards the definite goals of the West but would instead height of the Vietnam conflict, more. 
that "pownr can by invPsted liberalism and toleration. Three speak of the opportunities Senator Kennedy urged It is this failure to do more, with a sense of direction only of these leaders were John F. available for the further peace­American disengagement, to stand up for American ide­by moral prinripl1~s. It is the Kennedy. Robert r. Kennedy ful integration of East and something he would probably als, that is most frustrating 
function of morality to com­and Martin Luther King. Jr. An West and how the United States advocate for the U.S. in El when one views the current mand the use of power. to for­examination of how the could help the major catalyst of Salvador. Senator Kennedy administration of foreign pol­bid it, to limit it or, more in Kennedy's and King might have these changes-Mikhail Gor­simply could not countenance icy. America is often seen as general, to define the ends for dealt with some of the chal­bachev. the use of American power, not the proponent of change, which it may or must be used." lenges our government now directly or indirectly, in an but the defender of the status
It is this failure to do
Unfortunately, tlw current faces starkly illustrates the indiscriminate manner. quo, or at best, an idle ob­administrators of American vacuity of current American more, to stand up for Like Robert Kennedy, the server. ' foreign policy have jettisoned foreign policy. Reverend Martin Luther King, John Kennedy, Robert
American ideals, that is 
any systematic attempt to in­For example, take Eastern Jr.• spoke out against the Viet­Kennedy and Martin Luther vest American power with ra­Europe. The upheaval in that most frustrating when one nam war, although his primary King, Jr. were thoughtful men ther Murray's "moral princi­area is undoubtedly the most views the current struggle did not concern the who carefully guided their ac­ples." nm~ to this abject failure exciting event of our time. administration of foreign war but radical hatred in this tions according to what most of leadership. American foreign Given the fact that the post-war country. Of course, Martin enhanced America's moral
policy.'
policy has grown parochial and arrangements made at Yalta Luther King, Jr. was much principles. They dedicated their ultimately visionless. The cur­have succumbed to a new real­Meanwhile. unlike Eastern more than a domestic civil lives to the steady erosion of rent ideology is one of unilater­ity. Washington has seemed Europe, the situation in Central rights leader; he was an inter­what British statesman Denis alism instead of universalism. oddly passive. It would be hard America is devolving for the national statesman. His man­Healey categorized as "the con­The untempered notion that the to imagine John Kennedy being worst. On Nov. 11, the E1 Sal­date was not only an America ditions which produce avoid­ends justify the means is trum­so quiescent. As a keen student vadoran Leftist organization, free of radical hatred but also able suffering, oppression, peted in such situations as of history, President Kennedy F.M.L.N.. launched a bloody of­a world free of such hatred. hunger, wars, racial and na­Libya or Nicaragua but is deni­consistently attempted to put fensive that has left hundreds There can be no doubt that tional hatred, insatiable greed grated when the challenge is events into some sort of ra­dead. Included in these deaths Reverend King would have been and vindictive envy." Knowing eliminating world hunger or tional perspective. He did this were six priests and two angered by this country's fail­as they did that the margin disease. Even worse. Americans in his "lch bin ein Berliner" women tortured and then exe­ure to act decisively against the makes the difference, these are left with no sense that they speech in which he defined why cuted, most probably by right­perpetuation of apartheid in three men affected events and belong to a larger community the West sought to defend Ber­wing death squads. President South Africa. Both Reagan and showed us how America can do of peoples. save within the con­lin. Bush has uttered barely a word Bush have fought sanctions better. text of conflict. In that speech, he was not even though elements of the El tooth and nail. The evidence is Joseph L. Novak is a third 
American foreign policy has bellicose but convinced that one Salvador Army could have been that sanctions work. Martin year law student. 
Disregard for Miami alma mater displays poor judgement of fans Dear Editor: Dame team and Lou Holtz will 
It's Monday morning in South prevail. florida. and there is still a Nevertheless, the Saturday stunned feeling after the loss to evening of the game there was Miami in the Orange Bowl. As a one bothersome happening. double-domer of 1969 and (law From Miami fans, I might have school) 1972. I take a lot of expected what I am going to "heat" down here in South relate, but not from the Notre florida. especially around the Dame fans. Prior to the start of Notre Dame/Miami game. the game, the Miami band 
played the alma mater for the 
Yes, Miami has a very good school. (It was announced over team, so does Notre Dame, but the public address system on November 25. 1989, Miami which was loud to say the played the better game. The least.) Many Hurricane fans Irish will come back and beat rose to their feet. A large sec­Colorado. I have that confi­tion of Notre Dame students dence in the spirit, ability and arose, led on by several cheer­determination of Notre Dame. leaders and the leprechaun, to The "class" that is the Notre cheer and sing the Notre Dame 
LETTERS 

fight song. I was disappointed in the lack of respect shown for a school's alma mater, even though respect for Miami's "sportsmanship" and attitude might not be so deserving. 
Hopefully, the responsible students, cheerleaders and leprechaun will remember that "silence" at the appropriate time can also reflect a deafen­ing "class." 
Donald A. Wich, Jr. Pompano Beach, FL Nov. 27, 1989 
Irish footbaU winning streak marks an awe-inspiring accomplishment 
Dear Editor: each of you are going. 
Will the real Notre Dame fan It's not too shabby to have a please stand up and take a 23-1 record. Although, I must bow? On your way up, smile at admit 24-1 sounds better. The Lou Holtz and that fabulous only way the Irish can beat the Irish team and say thank you. I current winning streak at 23 am so proud of this team and straight games is to start right Lou Holtz and this University, I now. could bust. 
I've followed the Irish every season since Johnny Lujack,Notre Dame, with its admin­and to "the Irish" I say this: Iistrators, professors, coaches, am in awe of your attitude andstudent body and alumni, is the your school spirit. Thanks
best of the best-what a 

Notre Dame. Let's start all overschool-what an experience for and do it again! "Go Irish"!!!
a parent such as myself. Each and every football 
C.A. Gossman

player should be proud of where he is, where each team Readlyn, /A 
Nov. 25, 1989
member has been, and where 
J 

Accent 
Tuesday, Dec•ember 5, 1989
a e 10 

'Steel Magnolias' depicts women as suNivors 
MICHELLE BERNINGER 
accent writer 

"Steel Magnolias" is about women. This Herbert Hoss Film perhaps ev!m sets the stage for a new trend in the strength of "female bonding," li1r a change. 
Although quite an odd combi­nation, Dolly Parton, Sally Field, Julia Hobnrts, Daryl Ilannah, Olympia Dukakis, and Shirley Mael.aim~ work to give an outstanding portrayal of friendship and loyalty which supports them through the cy­des of life -birth, marriage, and death. 
"The film also asks 'which is the stronger sex?' by presenting the lives of these women and their relation­ships with men not one being ideal." 

On the surface, "Steel 

Magnolias" is about survivors 
and their abilities to maintain 
stnmgth and even a sense of 

humor in the face of adversity. 
Despite their individual hard­
ships, the women are always 

able to lind something to laugh 
about. 

The film also asks "which is the stronger sex?" by present­ing the lives of these women and their relationships with men -not one being ideal. Along with being depicted as sources of loneliness and tragedy, the men in their lives are also shown to be weaker when life's challenges get toughest. 
For instance. Field's charac­ter, M'Lynn, reveals one woman's courage in dealing with the sickness, coma. and eventual death of her beloved daughter, Shelby (Hoberts). Whereas the men turn their backs on adversity as a way of coping, M'Lynn remains with Shelby until the bitter end, rep­resenting the warm-hearted yet iron-willed "steel magnolia." Even at her daughter's grave, 

Furs' new album: Missing the needed balance of lyrics and music 
BRIAN GRUNERT 
accent writer 

Since the release of their self­titled debut album, the Psychedelic Furs have ev.olved stylistically from a sometimes brash. sometimes brooding punk style to a melodic bright­ness, characteristic of their re­cent material. Along with their musical development, the band's lyrical advancement has been invigorated by the talents of singer Hichard Butler. 
After live albums and hit singles such as "Pretty in Pink" and "Heartbreak Beat," the Furs have established them­selves as one the premier bands on the college scene as well as in the rest of the music indus­try. However, Book of Days, the band's most recent effort, falls short of the standards they have set for themselves by ear­lier accomplishments. 
The songs "Torch," 

"Parade,"and "Mother-Son" are 
good examples of this old ag­
gressiveness, emphasizing the 
guitar playing John Ashton. 
However, Ashton is far less in­
novative than in past years, and 
his lackluster performance 
wrecks whatever potential these 
tunes might have. 
Although many of the tracks on Book of Days are sluggish musically. Butler provides solid lyrics for the album. !lis style of poetic abstraction is espe­cially prevalent in "Wedding," "I Don't Mine," and "Should God Forget." Butler continues to write in broken sentences, utilizing obscure plays on words, and assuming an at­tacking, self-righteous stance: Without specifics, he is able to relay his message. 
Unfortunately, the musical repetitiveness detracts from and alienates the abstractness of Butler's words and the raspiness of his voice. The in­terplay between bright melodies and obscure lyrics is ·obliterated, and eventually the vocal and lyrical styles become part of the overall monotony. 
Two bright spots on the al­bum are "House" and the title track, "Book of Days." "House" is reminiscent of some of the Furs earlier material, lively yet tense. "Book of Days" shows off a bit of experimentation as Ashton plays an acoustic gui­tar, a perfect playground for Butler's absorbing ideas. These two tunes seem to have the del­icate balance of music with lyrics that is missing in the rest of the songs. 
Despite flashes of variety and innovation, Book of Days is not an exciting step in the develop­ment of the Psychedelic Furs. It is either a regression or an in­significant step in a new direc­tion that is met with stale indif­ference. 
M'Lynn is comfortnd not by hnr husband or sons, but by her four female friends. 
Unlike Parton, who has little difficulty rev1)aling her own personal Soutlwrn charm through her part as an affec­tionate. witty hair salon owner, Hannah mnnts the challenge of deviating from her beautiful­woman roles of the past. She must play a homnly, strictly re­ligious outsider who hides bP­hind thick hornnd-rimnwd glasses and stringy brown hair for most of tlw film. · 
MacLaine's pnrformance as the ill-tempered, cynical Ouiser, adds the humorous nlenHmt to the plot. Although Ouisnr is tlw brunt of most jokes, she, too, is not without tlw kincllwss that binds her to tlw others. Tlw close camaraderie that the six share bridges tlw boundaries of reputation, along with age and social status. 
The film has quill) a story bP­
··-hind it as wnfl. For tho screen­play writer, Hobert Harling, "Steel Magnolias" was written as a way of d1~aling with his grief aftnr the loss of his sister to diabetes. By filming in Harling's hometown of Natchitoches, Louisiana. Tri­Star Pictums was able to cap­turn the people, events, and aura of the close-knit commu­nity which nurtured the story. Many people who had been a part of Harling's sister's life were cast to replay events from their own pasts befom the camera. You may start to pat yours1)lf on the back near the end of the movie because you haw) not yet shed a tear watching this sup­posedly bittersweet film. 1\Jot so fast. In a climactic funeral scene, Field portrays the help­lessness of a mother who has just lost her child so effectively that within minutes the audi­ence is sobbing. Despite its sadness, "Steel Magnolias" offers optimism. Through Hannah's character, Annelle, Harling even gives us a new, hopeful outlook on death. Above all. the film makes the audience see that things aren't always as bad as they seem, and that you can and will sur­vive. 


Tuesday, DecemberS, 1989 
The Observer page 11 
Last second shot lifts Georgia Tech 

(AP) Dennis Scott scored 42 points, including a fallaway bank shot with one second left that gave No. 18 Georgia Tech a 93-92 victory over No. 22 Pittsburgh Monday night in the opening game of the Big East­ACC Challenge. 
Scott, who was 8-for-14 on 3­pointers, got the ball near the lane with four seconds left and then drove toward the basket, pulling up for the winning shot. 
Jason Matthews had given Pitt the lead at 92-91 with two free throws with nine seconds left. 
But Georgia Tech (3-0) ad­vanced the ball to midcourt and called a timeout to set up the winning play for Scott. The ju­nior swingman averaged 29.5 points in the Yellow Jackets' first two games. 
Kansas 103 
Tenn.-Martin 48 
Terry Brown scored 21 points and Kansas started the second half with a 32-4 run Monday night as the No. 2 Jayhawks routed Division II Tennessee­Martin 103-48. 
Mark Randall scored 19 points and had 14 rebounds for Kansas (7 -0). Rick Calloway had 12 points and Kevin Pritchard 10. 
The Jayhawks capitalized on numerous turnovers by Tennessee-Martin (3-3), which had nearly twice as many fouls. Kansas' only problem was at the free-throw line, going 11­for-27. 
Oklahoma 130,
Angelo St. 62 
Oklahoma scored 31 consecu­tive points in the first half Monday night and the 12th­ranked Sooners routed Angelo State 130-62. 
Oklahoma (3-0) is averaging 149 points per game and has won by an average margin of 
78.3 points. The Sooners' 68­point victory over the Division II Rams was their smallest this season. 
William Davis scored 10 of his game-high 22 points during the run. Davis, a senior for­ward who has been Oklahoma's 
leading scorer in each of its games, also had a game-high 13 rebounds. He is averaging 
25.7 points and 13.7 rebounds. 
LSU 116 
Lamar 76 
Ninth-ranked Louisiana State went to a man-to-man defense· with about six minutes to go in the first half, broke open a close game and rolled to a 116­76 victory over Lamar Monday behind the 30 points of Chris Jackson. 
LSU (3-1) led 28-25 when the Tigers switched out of the zone they had used from the tip-off. Lamar got just seven more points before intermission and only two -on a pair of free throws by Victor Trahan -in the final 4:32. 
Jackson had 18 of his points in the final 6:40 of the first half as LSU opened a 60-32 halftime lead. 

Missouri 86 
Creighton 79 
Freshman Travis Ford made three 3-pointers as Missouri closed the first half with a 32-9 run Monday night and the fourth-ranked Tigers beat Creighton 86-79. 
Missouri (5-0) trailed 28-20 with 8:16 remaining in the half after Matt Roggenburk made three straight 3-pointers. Nathan Buntin then made a 7­foot hook shot, starting the run. 
Creighton's leading scorer, Chad Gallagher, committed his third foul at 5:16 of the first half. Ford's 3-pointer gave the Tigers their first lead at 33-32 and Missouri capitalized on the absence of the 6-foot-1 0 Gallagher, outscoring the Jays 22-5. 
Louisville 104 
Cleveland St. 77 
Felton Spencer was 8-for-8 from the field and scored 21 points Monday night as No. 11 Louisville used its superior size and quickness to beat Cleveland State 104-77. 
The Cardinals ( 4-1) made 9 of their first 10 shots. LaBradford Smith and Tony Kimbro set the 
pace with consecutive 3-point­
ers in the first 1:10 and Keith 
Williams' turnaround jumper at 
the 13:52 mark made it 23-8. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds 
LOST: I LOST SOMETHING AT ORANGE BOWL FLIGHTS Celebrate Christmas With ADOPTION Doctor & artist, happily THE ST. MARY'S JUNIOR CALL 1-800-7DOMERS The Grinch, Heat Miser, married, warm, seek white 
NOTICES FOR RENT
FORMAL AND ITS NOT WHAT and Dillon! newborn to love and cherish. 
YOU'RE PROBABLY THINKING­Chicago -$295 Legal, confidential. Please call EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL IT WAS MY BLACK OVERCOAT. NEAR N.D. Clean and comfortable Cincinnati -$245 -Friday and Saturday-Hanna & Mark collect (212) 864­MRS. COKER. 233-7009. If you accidentally took home with apartments: Cleveland -$311 7:00 Rudolph the Red-Nosed 5512 
you please call me. Has large label • 755 South Bend Ave, efficiency­Dallas -$320 Reindeer WORDPROCESSING "1 00% Cashmiere" inside. $50+ $225, 1 bedroom-$265. Denver -$351 7:50 A Year Without A Santa JULIE ROBERTSON 272-8827 reward. Please call T. J. CLARK • 607 1/2 E. Corby, 1 bedroom­Detroit -$280 Claus HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY! 283-1738 $295. Louisville -$245 LOVE, MOM, DAD, DAN, ANDY 
TYPING AVAILABLE Philadelphia -$270 8:40 Frosty the Snowman
Deposit, references . 
287-4082 9:05 Charlie Brown Christmas 
FOUND: VIVITAR CAMERA 616-483-9572. New Orleans -$200 
9:30 Life & Adventures of Santa Claus 

S.E. corner of Badin on sidewalk. LaGuardia-$310 
TEXTBOOKS Sat. night. Call x3466 to describe MALE/FEMALE HOUSEMATE Boston -$328 
BOUGHT AND SOLD NEEDED FOR NEXT SEMESTER. Pittsburgh 10:20 How the Grinch Stole
and claim. -$320 PANDORA'S BOOKS OWN BEDROOM, CLOSE TO Los Angeles -$440 Christmas 
CORNER OF N.D. AVE. AND 10:45 'Twas the Night Before 
CAMPUS, HOUSE IN GREAT 
HOWARD Christmas
CONDITION. 120/MO. +UTIL. CALL 1-800-7DOMERS 233-2342 PLEASE CALL 289-4621. MOST FLIGHTS 12129 AND 1/3. LOTS OF PAPERBACKS IN SEATS ARE LIMITED. -Friday-
WANTED 
STOCK! EARN $300-$500 PER WEEK 11 :30 Scrooged
CLEAN 3-BDRM HOUSE, 2 BLKS. 
READING BOOKS AT HOME. 
FROM ND. $475/MO. 232-3972. 
TYPING CALL 1-615-473-7440 EXT. -Saturday­B340. 
11 :30 It's a Wonderful Life 277-7406 for rent beginning AUG. couple eager to adopt a baby. 
PICKUP & DELIVERY 4 BR. N.D. AVE., furnished house ADOPTION -Well-educated 
ATIENTION: EARN MONEY 
They're FREE and Christmas READING BOOKS! 
'90. GRAD STUDENTS OR SRS. Cheerful home full of books. 
NEEDED: Ride to Milwaukee RESERVE NOW! 259-7801 days Flexible on sharing information wouldn't be the same without Fri. Dec. 8. Call Paula $32,000/YEAR INCOME or 255-5852 evenings/wknds. with birth mother about child. Our them! In Dillon's Party Room. 
POTENTIAL. DETAILS. (1) 602­
284-4452. adoption agency can provide
838-8885 EXT. BK 6262. 
Hey FLYBOY ........ 

Nice furnished homes for next counseling and references. ''Christmas Concert" school year. Close to NO. 277-Please call collect 309-827-3135 What does U2's "Desire" 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000
Notre Dame's singing and dancing 3097. eves/wknds for profile/photo. do for you? Good luck this 
mo. Summer,yr.round,AII
ensemble. Shenanigans. will be James and Hollis. week --Spiderlady
Countries. All fields. Free info. 
performing their annual Christmas Write IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04. Corona 
concert Friday. Dec.8, at 7:00p.m. HIAG!
FOR SALE
Del Mar CA 92625. 

in Washington Hall. Tickets are free and can be picked up at the door. '**SECRET SANTAS'**
FEDERAL, STATE AND CIVIL 
'86 HONDA ACCORD, 4 DOOR, Buy your roommate, friend orSERVICE JOBS! NOW HIRING NC, AM/FM STEREO TAPE, sweetie a holiday bag of goodies 
THIS AREA! $10,271 TO BUFFALO CLUB MEMBERS!!!
I LOST/FOUND I 
STICK, 1 OWNER, TOP for $1. Sold-Dining halls Dec 5,6,7. 
$84,157.1MMEDIATE OPENINGS! Sign up for X-mas Bus on Tues.
CONDITION. $6300. 277-2560. Delivered Dec. 8th. Support BP 
CALL 1-315-733-6062 EXT Dec. 5, 6:30-8:30pm in LaFortune
LOST: $70 FROM TRUSTCORP and El Campito and help put a
#F2382H FOR CURRENT Lobby. For info call 
XMAS AT DISNEY LISTING. Tom X3368 or Sue X4179.
MACHINE ON 11/18/89. THERE'S smile on a child's face this 
2 RT airline tix, SB-Orlando Christmas!!! TRANSACTION. PLEASE 
A VIDEO TAPE OF THE 12/22-12/26, $300 for both 
ATIENTION-HIRING!

RETURN MONEY TO 222 Please Call291-1120 Do you want someone who
GOVERNMENT JOBS-YOUR
KEENAN HALL. NO QUESTIONS idoHzes you for what you do, or ASKED AND NO FURTHER '78 TOYOTA COROLLA $1800. Hi Anne Kenney! What's new? loves you for who you are? 
AREA. $17,840-$69,485. CALL 1-602-838-8885. EXT R 6262. 
287-2062. xxOO-L.
TROUBLE. 
$25REWARD 

One way air ticket, Jan. 16, Zahm SYR (11/18/89). If found, 
Rhinestone bracelet lost at Washington, D.C. Club Bus 
San Francisco--> Chicago
to the first person who can
please call # 284-4152 or Chicago ->Baltimore Bus sign-ups, Thursday Dec. 7 
identify the anti-life IDIOT who very cheap!! Call 287-4925. Flanner Pit -8:00pmripped down the "PROTEST for I NEED AN ENGLISH TUTOR ­
LOST: BLACK TOILETRY BAG Price-$95/50 (Rt/1 way)
LIFE" sign outside of South Dining INTERMEDIATE AND ADVANCE 
Rolling Stones ticket WITH MY CONTACTS. CALL Hall last Wednesday. 
DOUG #2341. Dec.6 Washington, D. C. Club
CALL: Mike 239-7596 
Call Ken, Scott, or Dan at Lost: Cross Felt Tip Pen bearing 
#7666 I NEED AN ENGLISH TUTOR­Eh, Eh-Whoa! 
the AT&T logo. It has sentimental Going toward Dayton, Springfield, 
INTERMEDIATE AND ADVANCE Who took Jill Weber's Ameretto 

Value. If found please call Joe @ Cincinnati or Columbus Friday Dec. 
PEDRO # 283-3952

tea?!? Remember, this is not a 
7 NICHTS
x3804. 8? We REALLY need a ride!!! 
laughing matter-no; it,s the 
PERSONALS
REWARD!' REWARD!! Leave Dec. 8, return Dec. 10. Call 
SOUTH PADU ISUMD ·-'129. 
OUEEN,S COURT TEA PARTY!!! 
5 OR 7 NIGHTS
REWARD!!' Gia at 5271 or Kathy at 5264 at 
SMC 

STUMIOAT ·-'•tn•
SR. FORMAL THEME CONTEST 

1. 5 Oil 7 NICHTS
LOST FILM on Miami trip plane SUBMIT A THEME IDEA FOR 
11 /26. lfyou found it please ATIENTION MACINTOSH ARE YOU READY FOR ... 
FOIT UUDIIIMLI ,_lfJ2.
SENIOR FORMAL AND MAYBE 

7 NIGHTS
call Pete at X1699. Thanks! DIRECT SALES PROS NEEDED USERS! 
WIN A DINNER FOR TWO!! 

for leading water treatment ANTOSTAL 
HllTOMHUD ISUID ..~ 1f27'
MADMACS, the ND/Michiana user BRING ENTRIES TO STUDENT 
7 NICHTS 
LOST : Navy I cream down coat at company.Paid training. salary group, will hold a meeting on Tues, ACTIVIiiES BEFORE MON 
NO Ave. Apts. If found, please call and/or straight commtssion. We Dec. 5 at THE WEEK MAY NOT BE HERE, 
COIPUS CHIIm I
DEC.11.

Whitney@ x-2744. Thanks. offer complete corporate benefits, 7:00 p.m. in Rm. 300 of the BUT PREPARATIONS ARE 
MUmMe ISWID ·-1JJ. 
tnsurance, patd vacation, etc. 2 Math/Camp building. BEGINNING NOW AND WE NEED 
5 9/l 7 NIGHTS 
CALL TOLL FIIEE 10£MY

sales per week earns $60K, 1st Special interest groups!!! LOGOS FOR THE BOOKLET AND 
year income. For interview or more TEE SHIRTS. HAVE YOUR ART­FOUND 
information on the 2nd fastest ROOMMATE WANTED-Female WORK DISPLAYED ALL OVER t·BDD·J2t·59tt Single room key on a gold growing business in the world, call (24) seeks non-smoker to share COOL CAL"$MONEY$" ALLEN: CAMPUS AND WIN CASH square key chain with a D on it. Paul Hoogerheide at (616)684-apartment near NO. Will move in You're finally LEGAL!! HAPPY 
PRIZES. DROP OFF ENTRIES IN Found Friday nite in D-2. 7033 or call Rob Schwartz at with you or find place together. 21 !!! 
THE S.U.B OFFICE BY WED. 
QJ

Call x3890 to claim. (616)372-2220. Colleen 3503. Your Roomie, PSYCHO DEC.13. 
'OtMnamo on brr# ~c~ NHJIM9Cn ot sc~ 


~---­
Tuesday, December 5, 1989
The Observer

page 12 
SPORTS BRIEFS
Baseball winter trade talks heat up 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) ­Free agents Hobin Yount and Mark Davis held ofT making de­cisions Monday, putting several possible trades on hold at baseball's winter meetings. 
The Chicago Cubs said they were told by Yount's agent, his brotlwr Larry. that nothing was imminent. The Cubs are among the teams making multi­year, $3 million-per-season of-, fers to Yount, the American League's Most Valuable Player. 
"We called this afternoon to lind out the situation and they said no decision would be made at the meetings," Cubs presi­dent Don (;renesko said. 
As usual, there was more talking than trading. The New York Yankees sent Don Slaught to Pittsburgh for Jeff Hobinson and a minor leagunr in the only definite deal, while rumors swirled about Joe Carter and Mike Greenwell. 
The annual draft of players left off 40-man rosters did produce some familiar names. Mike Dunne, one of the best rookie pitchers in 1987, was taken by San Diego, while Sil Campusano, once Toronto's most promising prospect, was selected by Philadelphia. 
Commissioner Fay Vincent, in 

Fencing 
continued from page 16 
of collegiate fencing. Mlie's a 
tough man in the last bout." 
The Irish will next travel to 

State College, Pa., on January 
19 for the U.S.F.A. Collegiate 
Open. 
One bright spot out of the weekend was the fine results from the Saint Mary's squad. While only a club sport with minimal experience for some members, the Belles managed to wrest five bouts from North Carolina and four bouts from Northwestern in a losing effort. 
Mlnitially, I was hoping that we'd get two victories off each team," said Marx, who also coaches the Saint Mary's squad. MThe girls have really good team competitiveness, and are very supportive. They had the desire to win." 
For the Belles, Leigh Voyt was 4-4 on the day, while both Laura Curtin and captain Heather Briggs were 2-6. Christina Vellucci went 1-7 in her first ever collegiate fencing action. 
M(Vellucci) was really the biggest surprise of the day, be­cause she hadn't had much fencing experience," said Marx of the North Carolina native. 
As if he isn't busy enough al­ready, Irish assistant fencing coach Mike Marx competed this weekend in the Dominguez Open foil competition against some of the top foilists in the country, coming away with top honors. 
Marx, who cruised to an in­credible 15-0 mark in the meet, knocked off some noteworthy names, including former Irish standout All-American Tim Glass and 1985 world champi­onship team member Ed Kaihatsu, the latter presently a teammate of Marx's with L'Escrime du Lac fencing club. 
"Maybe I was angry !about the Irish performance!. Maybe I was just relaxed, I don't know," said Marx, whose last competi­tion came in the 1988 Seoul Summer Olympics. Ml haven't feneed like that in eight years. It really felt good." 
The next challenge for the versatile Irish coach will come this weekend as he will meet even tougher competition in a North American circuit event in Louisville, Ky. 
his first state of the game ad­dress, said he did not think there would be a work stoppage next season. lie also talked about broadening baseball's interest in Europe and re­iterated that a timetable for expansion will come within 90 days of a new contraet between players and owners. 
It remained uncertain. how­ever, when free agents Yount and Davis would announce their plans. 
Yount is being wooed by big offers from Milwaukee, California, San Diego and the Cubs. He has played his entire career with the Brewers and they, along with the free­spending Angels, appeared to be the favorites to get him. 
"We don't have anything to say one way or the other right now," Angels general manager Mike Port said. "Everyone ex­cept us was going around yes­terday saying we had him." 
If the Angels get Yount, they are rumored to be interested in paekaging Devon White and Kirk McCaskill to Cleveland for the hard-hitting Carter. San Diego also might be more will­ing to trade young catcher Sandy Alomar Jr. for Carter, if Yount signed with San ·Diego. 
While Larry Yount did busi­ness by telephone from Arizona, the agents for Davis came to Nashville. 
Alan and Randy Hendricks met Monday with San Diego general manager -and newly named vice president -Jack McKeon to talk about Davis, the National League Cy Young 
winner,  staying  with  the  
Padres.  
"We  don't  have  any  

timetable," Alan Hendricks said. "We'll try to it, as lawyers say. with all deliberate speed." 
Philadelphia, the team Davis started with, has entered the big-bucks bidding and has thrown in another incentive ­the chance for Davis to become a starter. 
Davis was a success starter in the minors but struggled in that role in the majors. Now a successful reliever, Davis may want another chance in some­one's rotation. 
The Yankees are anxious to get Davis and, if they can't get him, perhaps sign free agent Jeff Reardon. The Yankees are interested in Chicago White Sox reliever Bobby Thigpen, but won't make a move until set­tling their situation with Davis and Heardon. 
There~s a PS/2®that~s 
right for you. 
~~ 

Model30 286 B530-E21  Model 55 SX 6555-031  
Memory Processor  1Mb 60266 ( 10 MHz)  2Mb B03B6SXH' ( 16Mhz)  
3.5-lnch diskette drtve  1.44Mb  144Mb  
Fixed disk drive  20Mb  30Mb  
Micro Channel'"' architecture  Yes  
Display  Monochrome  Monochrome  
Software  DOS 3.3 WordPerfect  DOS 3.3 WordPerfect  
Price  $1,995  $2,950  
lotus 1-2-3 $100 


' . 
~/ 

Options with any order, 
Color Monitors $230 
Now with Immediate Delivery! 
Three of the most popular IDM ProprintersThl are available now at special low prices, and slightly longer delivery. 
Proprinter III w/Cable (4201/003) $406 Proprinter X24E w/Cable (4207/002) $549 Proprinter XL24E w/Cable (4208/002) $736 Start out the new year right. Check out aU 
these special savings now-before it's too late! 
I-low'rc you going to do it? 
PS/2 it! 
Notre Dame Computer Store Computing Center and Math Building 
----·

239-7477 ----­
----·­
---·­

"'Thts at... lrnlted lO QUiilfled ltudentl. lecully IW"id Iliff .,.no Older In IBM PSn Mo<lo18SJO-E21 01 8555-031 O'YClJQh December 31, 1989 ~ICOI QuO(ed do rd. nck.Jde sales ta.-. Prcet 8b<MI dO ncUda I Nndlng chllge. ~eck wllh )'O..It nltltuton reg•dng tt"u1 chw~ -tBM llld PS/2 •• .reg11~ed trlldemwka ollmomatiONI BuiW'lHI Med"lnet Capcr11ion. "'11op_rntw and MC~oCNmel aro tredem•ka_a lrnernationaiB&Jan~ MIChne1 a PO'IhOI"I -scoa6S)( W"td 80096 •• rademllkl ollnlll 1 Pr•c:as weaub)ld to cJ"wlge W"'d IBM ml'f withdrwt h pranotim el •rPt tme wrthrul written MICe lmmed1ato dellwry Ia calh end c.MhMWI chock 
NVA basketball referees will meet at 5 p.m. Wednesday, Dec. 6 
Irish Outdoors will have a semester planning meeting at 7 
p.m. Tuesday, Dec. 5, in Thnodores. Spring break ski trip will be discussed. Call 271-9901 for more information. 
Boxing Club will have madatory physicals at 7 p.m. tonight in the infirmary for anyone who is thinking of participating in the dub secoml semester. 
Orange Bowl tickets will be sold for the last day on Tuesday, Dec. 5. The tickets, at $30 each, should be bought at Gate 10 until 5 p.m. at the Joyce ACC. The tieknts will be issued in Miami. 
Focus 
on 
America's Future 

Help Prevent Birth Defectl ~ Support the 
'li:' ~!.9DH:9.U?oJroP~ 


Tuesday, December 5, 1989 
The Observer page 13 
Miami 2nd in AP poll, but not yet satisfied 
COHAL GABLES, Fla. (AP) -The University of Miami moved two steps closer to its third national championship this decade. 
After the llurrieanes (10­
1) improved two places to seeond in Monday'·s Associated Press poll to No. 2, first-year coach Dennis Eriekson quickly assessed his team's chances of overtaking No. 1 Colorado. 
"We're excited about that." Erickson said, "because it puts us in a position when~. if we focus in and take care of business at tlw Sugar Bowl against Alabama. we'vp, got the opportunity to win the national championship. 
"If we're able to beat Alabama and Notre Dame
000 

were to beat Colorado, then I would say that because of where we're ranked right now, our chances are pretty good." 
Miami will play in the Sugar Bowl on Jan. 1 against Alabama (1 0-1). which fell from seeond to seventh following a 30-20 loss at Auburn Saturday. The Buffaloes ( 11-0) will play in the Orange Bowl against Notre Dame (11-1), which moved up one spot to fourth. Michigan ( 10-1 l still is No. 3 and will play No. 12 Southern Cal in the Hose Bowl. 
If Miami loses and Notre 
Dame wins, the Fighting 
Irish stand to win their second consecutive national 
championship. 
Miami finished No. 1 in 
1983 and 1987 and No. 2 in 
1986 and 1988. The 
Hurricanes' only stumble 
this year was a 24-10 loss at 
Florida State. They ended 
Notre Dame's 23-game 
winning streak with a 27-10 
victory Nov. 25. 
Miami received four first­
place votes and 1.407 points, 
while Colorado received 55 
first-place votes and 1,492 
of a possible 1,500 points 
from a nationwide panel of 
sports writers and 
broadcasters. 
Michigan received the 
other first-place vote and 
1,374 points. Notre Dame's 
point total was 1,323. 
Rounding out the Top 10 
are Florida State, Nebraska, 
Alabama, Tennessee, Auburn 
and Arkansas. 
Florida State, winners of nine in a row since op«ming the season with two losses, moved up one place to fifth after beating Florida 24-17 Saturday. Nebraska, which was idle, advanced from No. 7 to No. 6. Tennessee remained eighth after defeating Vanderbilt 17-10. 
Auburn jumped two places to No. 9 following its victory over Alabama, and Arkansas fell one spot to No. 10 following a 38-24 win over Southern Methodist. 
LAKE FOHEST, Ill. {AP) -It ain't over 'til it's over but.
000 

With three games remaining, the Bears still have a mathe­matical chance to make the NFL playoffs for the sixth straight year. But for all prac­tical purposes, their season is 
over.  
"We  got  to  realize  we've  
fallen  into  that  category  of  
teams  that  don't  make  the  

playoffs," Coach Mike Ditka said at his weekly news confer­ence at Bears headquarters. 
"I haven't been there for a long time," he said. "It's part of life. I can accept it. I don't like it. I don't relish it... 
The opera may not be over until the Fat Lady sings, but the Bears' football extravaganza ­which some have likened to a soap opera in recent years ­hit the lowest note of the past half-dozen years Sunday night with a 27-16 loss to the Vikings at Minnesota. 
They are 6-7, under .500 for the first time since December 1983. 
A year ago, the Bears were 12-4. 
"We've got 18 or 19 kids who are first-or second-year men, and we're a little different. They don't respond the same way the veterans did a couple years ago," Ditka said. 
But he said he doesn't regret any personnel decisions. "These are the guys we want to go to the well with," he said. 
For Chicago to make the playoffs for a sixth consecutive year, the Vikings and Green Bay Packers -8-5 and tied atop the NFC Central -would virtu­ally have to collapse. 
A wild-card spot in postsea­son is further out of reach. The wild-card leaders, the New York Giants and Los Angeles Rams, are 9-4. 
"Our goal is to go out and
00. 
win three football games come heck or high water," Ditka said. "We're going to try to do it by playing better football than. we played, by playing more aggressive football than we played and more intelligent football than we played.". 
The Packers are one of the three teams Chicago has left to play. The Bears play host to Detroit on Sunday, then greet Green Bay before the schedule finale at San Francisco on Dec. 24. 
Ditka said he thought that if a couple of third-down plays had gone differently, the Bears could have beaten the Vikings. He also was critical of a few calls by the game officials. 
"I think it's justified to say somebody missed some plays," he said. 
Several Bears limped away from Minnesota with injuries and may not play next week, in­cluding halfback Neal Anderson (ankles), defensive lineman William Perry (knee), guard John Wojciehowski (back), tackle Jim Covert (hamstring) 
. and cornerback Lemuel Stinson (knee). Ditka is considering replacing Mike Tomczak with Jim 
· Harbaugh at quarterback if Harbaugh's hand, injured in Pittsburgh three weeks ago, has mended. The coach praised Anderson, a 1,000-yard-a-year rusher who hasn't been able to reach terms on a new contract and could be a free agent at the end of the season. 

~~-~~-;~~ IIU~~~~:~·~~;~,..,:;~~-J-,~~~J-S_.,~--~~-~~-[-(J 
1­
II 
f 
·Z· 
I 
I..·.·. 
0
1:,.._. 
1 
Playoff outlook cloudy for Chicago 
Passing the CPA Exam Open House 
· Half Price Course Drawing ·Job Hunting Guide ·Refreshments Served 
Wednesday, December 6 5:00p.m. Montgomery Theater -LaFortune Center 

official CPA review of Arthur Andersen 
1-800-274-EXAM 
"I think he's as good as any player in football right now running the football," said Ditka. "I hope he's always a Bear." 
The Bears' lack of success on 
the gridiron has translated into 
no-shows among the Chicago­
area media at Halas Hall. Two 
dozen reporters showed up for 
Monday's news conference, half 
the number on hand two 
months earlier when the team 
was undefeated. 
Ditka offered a kinder and 
gentler interview for media 
used to his usual brusque and 
flippant approach to many 
questions. 
His boss, who gave Ditka a 
vote of confidence last week, 
had a smile on his face when he 
spotted reporters Monday. 
'Tm trying to laugh so I 
don't cry. I'm trying to stay 
even keel," said Bears president· 
Mike McCaskey. 
What hurts Chicago fans is 
that the Bears started off the 
season 4-0, with wins over 
Cincinnati, Minnesota and 
Philadelphia -all apparently 
playoff bound. Hopes were high 
the team could capture its sec­
ond pro football title since the 
glorious Super Bowl XX that 
capped the 1985 season. 
But then Chicago lost seven of the next nine games, including the first-ever season sweep by Tampa Bay. 
The players, however, haven't given up. 
"We just got to hope its works out," said linebacker Ron Rivera. "You never know, stranger things have happened. We have three games and mathematically we're not out of it." 
I 

-=-,~~·~·-, 
I 



r 
Tuesday, December 5, 1989
The Observer 

I 
~ 

Belles swim team 2-0 in weekend action 
BY COLLEEN KRENZER and sophomores Colotte Sports Writer Hush and Kathleen Golski for th1~ 200-yard medloy
The Saint Mary's College Swim Team improved it's 

relay vi<:tory. "The team did really well
record to 2-1 with two overall," said Colburn.

victories in last week's "Everybody was really

aetion. 

supportive of everyone elseThe Belles traveled to which was one of tlw main
Albion College last 

roasons we did so well. Hight
Wednesday and brought 

off the bat. we were firedhomo a 137-106 victory and two new school records 
up." The Belles hosted Calvin
along with two national 

Colleg1~ on Friday and turnedqualifiers. 
in a 138-120 victory.
Sophomore Carrie 
The team had two doubleCummins set school records winners. Bethany Thompson
in the one-meter and three­meter diving competition 

won the 1000-yard frnostyle while freshmen Bethany 
and 100-yard backstroke Thompson and Chris 
and Carrie Cummins 
The Observer/File Photo 
captured both the one-andSmiggen qualified for the

'I 
three-meter diving events. 

~ The Irish wrestling team participated in the competitive Las Vegas Invitational this past weekend and 
Nationals. Thompson 
Captain Michelle Colburn

finished a respectable seventh place overall. Notre Dame fell to sixteenth in the latest national wrestling 
qualified for the I 00-yard added a victory in the 200­

backstroke along with winning the event. Smiggen yard freestyle as did Chris qualified in the 100-yard Smiggen in the 100-yard 
polls. 
'I 
butterfly and won the 500-freestyle. yard freestyle. "This year's team is a lot
! Wrestlers seventh at Vegas Invite 
I 
BY STEVE MEGARGEE almost pl(l{~ed in the top five. If ahead of traditional powers 
Sophomore captain closer knit," said Coach
l 
Associate Sports Editor Boyd and Hadenbaugh both had Edinboro, Lehigh and 
Dennis Coopnr. "They're anMichelle Colburn turned in won matches in which they lost Oklahoma. 

double victories for the enjoyable group of ladies to
~ 
While the Notre Dame by a single point, Notre Dame Notre Dame dropped one
I 
Belles in the 200-yard coach and thero arn a lot of 
I wrestling team could not avoid would have finished no worse notch to 16th in the latest 
I 
freestyle and the 100-yard real athletos. which helps."thinking of what might have than fifth. Amateur Wrestling News poll. 
freestyle. Freshman .Jennifer Saint Mary's will be in 
been. the actual results from Facing Arizona State's Oklahoma State is ranked first, 
action this Saturday againstI last weekend's Las Vegas Townsend Saunders, the with Arizona State, Oklahoma. 
Danahy contributed a 

victory in the 200 IM and Notre Dame at two p.m. inl Invitational weren't too shabby nation's top-ranked 142-Iowa and Nebraska rounding 
the Holfs Aquati<: Center. either. pounder, Boyd led 4-1 before out the top five. The Irish face losing 9-8. Hadenbaugh tied · Nebraska, Oklahoma and Iowa 
then teamed with Colburn 

The Irish finished seventh in Clemson's Donnie Heckel. this season, and host the latter the prestigious tournament, ranked fourth in the country two teams. equaling their performance of a among 118-pounders, 1-1, then year ago. Pat Boyd placed lost 1-0 in an overtime period. In the individual rankings. playoff hopes alive second in the 142-pound Gerardi also lost in a close Boyd is third among 142­
I Colts trying to keep 
division, Mark Gerardi was match. pounders and Hadenbaugh is INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -With them for. They'll play hard," he fourth in the 167-pound "Andy and Mark wrestled eighth in the 118-pound the Indianapolis Colts' playoff said of his players. "It's amaz­bracket and Andy Hadenbaugh great tournaments, and both division. chances dimmed, if not extin­ing. but you do have the pride 
was sixth at 118. were eliminated in close Notre Dame opens its dual guished, the biggest motivation factor, there's an outside 
"I think this was the toughest matches," said McCann. "But meet season Sunday at 2 p.m., for the final three games of the chance for the playoff's and com pnti tion this tournament we have to win those close ones when the Irish host Illinois season might be the misery­we'd like to knock off somebody has ever had." said Irish coach if we're going to be a really State at the Joyce ACC. Of loves-company factor, Coach with a bntter rncord than 
Fran McCann. "A lot of the great team." Notre Dame's 15 dual meet Ron Meyer said Monday. ours." smaller schools that used to go Arizona State won the opponents this season, six are _ "We'd like to make somebody Meyer called the loss to the there have been replaced with Invitational, followed in order presently in the top 25. Other else feel as bad as we do," he Patriots "a devastating loss, bigger wrestling schools." by Oklahoma State, Nebraska, Irish opponents in the rankings said. one that's hard to recovnr 
Despite the tough fi1~ld Indiana, Iowa State and are No. 14 Ohio State, No. 15 The Colts, beaten 22-16 on a from." 
pM~sent in Las Vegas, the Irish Michigan. The Irish finished Indiana and No. 25 Purdue. New England touchdown with Tlw Colts, trailing most of the 25 seconds to go on Sunday, game. took a 16-15 lead on a dropped to 6-7 with games touchdown pass from .lark 
against Cleveland. Miami and Trudeau to Erie Dickerson with
Thompson relieved about Heisman 
against Wisconsin and led the Indiana's Anthony Thompson INDIANAPOLIS (API nation in rushing. However, he 
felt more relieved than disap­failed to gain 100 yards in pointed about losing the three of his last five games. lleisman Trophy by 70 points Ware garnered 242 first­
to Houston's Andre Ware. 
place votes and 1,073 points in ''I'm glad this is over with," nationwide voting by sports Thompson said in New York 
journalists and former 
after Ware was announced the winm~r Saturday of college football's biggest individual honor at the Downtown Athletic Club. 
"No more travel. I just want to go home and get back in the weight room and get back in shape. J.~st go on about my busmess. 
For four years at IU, Thompson's business was shat­tering records. lie broke NCAA career records for touchdowns and points, set a single-game rushing mark with 377 yards 
Swim 
continued from page 16 
"The women need depth, though. We won six individual IWIHlts, but no relays." 
Welsh was named the men's Outstanding Coach of the Meet, but attributed this to a strong staff. especially the work of his assistant coach, Mike Hoberts, and to the efforts of the swim­mers. 
"We are far ahead of where we've b1~en in any December since I've been at Notre Dame," Welsh said. "We've made a giant step this weekend in ovPrall team performance level and in confidence." 
Heisman winners. Thompson got 185 first-place votes and 1,003 points. 
It was the fourth closest vote ever. The narrowest margin of victory was 45 points in 1985 when Bo .Jackson of Auburn edged Iowa's Chuck Long. 
Quarterback Major Harris of West Virginia finished third and Tony Hice of Notre Dame was fourth, both well back. llarris got 115 first-place votes and 709 points and Rice 72 and 523. 
Ware and Harris are juniors. 
The Observer 
St. Nick's Bazaar 
St. Mary's College, Le Mans Hall 
.Happy 22nd 
Open daily this week, 10-5 
Birthday,

• wood crafts ·decorated baskets •wreaths 
Jamie!

Come to booth 117 and receive 10% discount with this ad. 
New Orleans remaining. under two minutos to go. New Thompson and Rice are se­There's a mathematical chance England, appan~ntly stopped on niors. for a playoff spot, but it's a fourth-and-26 on the next pos­
Ware, of course, wasn't a slim one. session. got new life with an popular choice among "We've got to overcome the Indianapolis offside penalty, Thompson loyalists. mental injury of the loss. Time and tho Patriots' drive ended 
Thousands of fans watching will tell," Meyer said at his with a H)-yard touchdown run the Indiana-Kentucky basket­weekly news conference at the 
by John Stephens in the dosingball game at the Hoosier Dome Colts' headquarters. 
seconds. 
in Indianapolis booed briefly "Invariably, as it always is at 
A year ago, the Colts lost to when the lleisman winner was this time of the year, a variety 
the Patriots on a touchdown 
announced over the public ad­of things have to occur for us run by Doug Flutie with 23 sec­
dress system. to get in the playoffs. But I'm onds to go. Then earlier this 
Ware's close victory margin not even going to address that 

season, New England won on a wasn't lost on Indiana athletic now, because we have to win all 
fiold goal in overtime. 
director Ralph Floyd. our games, starting with "I think it talks about Cleveland this week." 
"These plays have occurrPd. Anthony real well. I think you The Browns (7 -5-1) will face We've won some games that 
look beyond the individual ath­the Colts on Sunday in the way, too," Meyer said. "But. as lete, not only on the playing Hoosier Dome. Meyer dis­we all realize, the bottom line is field but off the playing field. I counted any letup in intensity winning the game. There's skill 
know of no greater individual by the Colts, even with a playoff on both sides of the ball, trying 
in college athletics representing berth a longshot at best. despPratoly to win. As frustrat­an NCAA institution than "It's what they pay me for. ing as it is, that is life in thn Anthony Thompson. frankly, and it's what they pay NFL." 
Ski the Mississippi Tour #1 -Jan. 3-5 Tour #2-Feb. 9-11 Call today! 1-264-3984 
U(~LuJUI~s)
Deadline: Dec. 14 

WeB [!jr.Dr.urJJj 



MD .f-1mt,~..-Cnrl~ ~ij ~r-Pi.-utlc;? £u_B ~ ~U!flC>toJ ! 

?rw-il?f 
... 
~~&J/1~2J1 
~.p 'TIL-­

-ric.k~ :jb-~ t)l\J £Au::: Ntf»..J l 
~ou WOPt" 

@~N~INfO.~ ~ ~ ~ Hal~ a~ a.~ to:co 
an4 ....ei-u~ N-St~ I STUDE!. UNION BOARD 






Sports 
Tuesday, December 5, 1 
a e 16 

Irish look to rebound against Indiana's talented freshmen 
BY GREG GUFFEY septet are last year's Indiana .. because he's consistent." in _the startin~ -~innuP. will b1~ Assistant Sports Editor Mr. Basketball Pat Graham, ·,'1· ,,....,~ ••,, The Irish have not won in pomt guard ltm Smgleton. Chris Lawson and Todd Leary. Bloomington since a 73-67 vie-forward Keith Hobinson and "Anytime you start 3-0 you tory in the 1973-7 4 season, and epnter Scott Paddock. Hobinson
BLOOMIN(iTON -Indiana's 
have to have confidence," said Indiana has captured six of the had a tPam-high 15 points
newest freshmen elass is 
Notre Dame coach Digger i~ last eight contests. Joe against the Cardinals.
quickly showing why many 
publications ranked it as the Phelps, who was in a similar si-r· f Fredrick scored 23 points to tuation last year with five l ~ pace the Notre Dame to a S4­
bnst in the country. "They arc vnry tough at 
frnshmen. "If you get athletes 71 victory last season at the 
home," Phelps said. "We justthat can play, it doesn't matter ~,. Joyce ACC. have to get back in the
The Hoosiers have streaked to a 3-0 record with the aid of what grade they're in." f;\''.'''.i' -·-~·;_. rhythm." snven freshmen. who compose '''"l?. Fredrick and fellow co-eap­one of the most highly-touted A freshman has been the tain Jamere Jackson will need NOTES -Sophomort' Kt>ith dasscs in coach Bob Knight's leading scorer in all of , to turn in good games against Adkins has anrwunc1~d his deri­t!Jnurn at Indiana. Indiana's vietories. Cheaney ··• the Hoosiers for the Irish to be sion to leavn Notre Dame. lie 
An experienced Notre Dame seored 20 points in a 77-66 win Bobby Knight successful. Last Saturday did not dress for nither of m1m's basketball team( 1-I) can over Miami (Ohio), Greg against Louisville, the duo Notre Dame first two gamPs 1md that win string tonight at 8 Graham had 24 in a 79-68 win Anderson is tied with Cheaney scored just 13 points on 5-of-against San Francisco or 
p.m. in Assembly Hall. The' over Kent State and for team scoring honors at 13 shooting. l.ouisvilln. Adkins, who aver­game will be televised locally by Fundmburke tallied 16 in last 16.7 points per game. The 1988 aged 0.7 points as a f'rnshman. WSJV-2S. Saturday's 71-69 triumph over Illinois Mr. Basketball has hit "I think Jamere and Fred told Phelps he plans to transf1~r. 
Kentucky in the Big Four an amazing 21-of-25 field goals played too quick against Classic. Pat Graham, who did and 8-of-9 free throws. Louisville," Phelps said. "You ..Tiekets for all remainingThe Hoosiers have three 
not seore a point in the first still have to stay in a rhythm home games arn now on sale atfreshmen scoring in double fig­two games, came off the bench 'Tie could have played as a even if you play up-t1~mpo. They the Gate I 0 box offkn at theures. Calbert Cheaney averages against Kentucky to nail three senior in high school," Phelps weren't set in their shooting or Joyce ACC...Singleton is now16.7 points followed by Greg 
Graham at 16.0 and Lawrenee thwe-pointers for nine points. said. "He's a complete player. they were over-anxious." fifth on the all-time assist list He's as good of a front-line with 246...Indiana is shooting
Funderburke at 11.3 points and 
7.7 rebounds. Rounding out the Sophomore forward Eric player as there is in the country Joining Fn~drick and Jackson 52.5 percent from the field. 
-.. ,.. -.. 

Fencers dominate in weekend matches 
BY CHRIS FILLIO 
Sports Writer 

Despite the impressive n~sults from this past weekend's fenc­ing season openers at Northwestern University. tlwre are still some doubts as to thn true potential for this year's squads. 
The men's teams disposed of Illinois (20-7). North Carolina (18-9), and the Air Force Academy (21-6) quite handily while the women all but deci­mated opponents from North Carolina and the Air Foree Aeademy, both by 15-1 scores. ishes with a 6-0 mark. whilP 
However, the coaching staff Hache! llaugh (6-0) and Lynn was less impressed by the ac­Kadri (4-0) wNe also undP­tual performance of the Irish. feated on the day. Senior 
The women's swim team broke ten university records as the Irish placed third at the National Catholic Meet, "We didn't fence well this Kristin Kralicek was 5-1 and improving on last year's fourth place finish. The men's squad also had a successful weekend, finishing a weekend because of basies," sophomore Tara Kelly was 4-1 surprising first. said assistant coach Mike as the women's team turned the 
Marx. "They didn't adjust to intensity up a noteh. the opponents' level. It's time to Of note for the men's foil
Swim teams end semester in style 
get back to the basies." squad was the feneing of Irish head coach Mike freshman Noel Young (7-0) and DeCicco, who was not present junior Phil Leary (5-0). while
Men take first, women third at National Catholics 
at this weekend's match, was freshman JPI'f Piper went 4-1. 
~ BY MARY GARINO meet with a strong perfor­ner, Boston College. The Irish somewhat more positive with "If you're a top feneer like I Sports Writer mance that gave the Irish third had the lead briefly during the the results. Noel. you're not going to letI place and sealed the meet vic­first two days of the competi­"When someone looks at another good feneer chall1H1ge
I Irish ht~ad swimming coach tory. tion, but Villanova proved too these seores, of course the you," said DeCiceo in response
I Tim Welsh was looking at last "The men's meet was so close strong. numbers are important," said to Young's performance in con­I weekend's National Catholic that had any Notre Dame The women set ten new uni­
DeCicco. "But I'd rather look trast to the team as a whole.
I 
I Meet as a measure of the swim swimmer finished one place versity reeords as they won six bad winning than to look good The closest Young eame to a team's suecess for the first lower. we wouldn't have won," events, the most in the three 
losing." loss was his 5-3 winning mar­
semester. noted Welsh. "Since everyone year history of the National While the Irish are arguably gin over Illinois' Caledrisi. 
If the results are any indica­seored, it was a true total team Catholics. one of the best teams in the returned
Sabreman Dan Yu tion. the Irish are heading in victory." , The individual highlight for nation, DeCicco downplayed to his fine form as he coasted 
the right direetion. The remarkable fact about the Irish was the effort of that aspect. choosing rather to to a 6-1 mark on the day in Both the men's and women's the Irish victory and a testa­freshman Tanya Williams, who 
focus on the net~d for improve­leading the Irish sabr1~ team. teams w1~nt into the meet at ment to the strong field in the won three races in meet record 
ment and team compntitiveness. James Taliaft~rro also turrwd in Fordham University in New overall meet was that no Notre times. She also became the first "Hight now we are a good a fine performanee at 6-1. 
York City with one main goal -Dame swimmer won an event, Notre Dame swimmer ever to team, but certainly a long way Chris Baguer went 7-2, while 
to improve on last year's fourth despite setting six new univer­a national brother Ed was
qualify for the NCAA national title eon­
from 3-1, the onlyplaee finishes. What the men sity records. championships with her first tender," said DeCicco. "Then~·s Irish fencer to dispose of North came away with was a victory, "It's obvious from the meet place finish in the 200-yard 
some work to be done bnfore Carolina's Shimon Sarraf, a 
while the women's squad made that the men's team needs butterfly. 
we go head-to-head with the thorn in the side of the sabn~­
a strong third place showing. power to advance," said Welsh. In recognition of her perfor­likes of Columbia, Penn and men for mueh of thn day. 
"Winning a championship meet mance, Williams was given the 
Penn Stall~" Epeeist David Calderhead got
The rntm's team squeaked 
past last year's champion without winning an event is like Outstanding Women's Swimmer Very little criticism can come off to a bad start, losing his 
a football team winning without title for the meet. 
from any observers regarding first bout. But after a briefVillanova by only two points in the offense scoring. It can Becky Wood came dose to the women's team. Once again chat with assistant eoaeh Mikea meet that was so dose it was happen, but you can't count on qualifying for the NCAAs, miss­and as expeeted, senior captain Marx, the Englishman re­decided on the last event. 
it every time." ing by one second in the 200­
Barrnda led the charge a
The lead changed hands three Anne bounded to 6-3 finish. 
The Irish totaled 680 points, yard breaststroke. with a spotless 5-0 record. Sophomore Jubba Beshin wastimes over the three day meet, 
with Notre Dame on top going while Villanova settled for sec­Sophomore Jenny Kipp was "We don't have anyone else the fireman for the day as he 
given the title Outstanding 

on the team who fenees quite clinched both matehes against
into the last raee, the 400-yard ond with 678. LaSalle was third 
Women's Diver for the meet 

like Anne Barreda," said Illinois and Air Force, despite
freestyle relay. of the 12 team field with 641 
with her first place finish in the 

DeCicco. "She knows just what an overall 5-4 record. 
The Irish had to place third points. 
one meter diving event. to do when she goes into a "lie's definitely a good manor better to retain the title, but The women's team gave an 
"The women's achievement 

match. And then she does it. under pressure," said Marx of
after three legs of the race, the impressive performance by 
was excellent," said Welsh. 

She's just that good." Beshin, who is in his first year
team was no better than scoring 583 points, placing 
Sophomore Heidi Piper con­
fourth. The last Irish swimmer, third behind champion tinued her streak of fine fin-
Jim Birmingham, saved the Villanova and last year's win-see Swim I page 14 see Fencing/ page 12 

The Observer/File Photo 




