


\lOL X'ill Ne. 100 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15, 1989 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Problem with shuttle tank may shorten mission 
Associated Press launched a key NASA commu­control capsule communicator to say we're going to come noon that engineers had not yet nications satellite. Mike Baker told the down early." determined the cause of the er­
SPACE CENTER, Houston­The problem was an erratic astronauts. "We're now Without that third tank, the ratic reading. A problem with a hydrogen pressure reading on one of looking at other flights to see shuttle might not have The other two hydrogentank aboard the space shuttle three liquid hydrogen tanks·. if we've seen this before." electricity to support a five-day tanks continued feeding the Discovery forced its astronauts The tank was taken out of ser­If the problem can't be re­flight plus two days for any con­shuttle's fuel cells and the crew to conserve energy Tuesday vice while engineers studied solved and Discovery has to tingencies. took steps to save electricity.
and threatened to shorten the the problem. continue to use only two hydro­Pennington said NASA could Unnecessary lights were mission, but Mission Control The hydrogen is combined gen tanks, the shuttle may land wait as late as Thursday before turned off as well as some said there was no threat to the with oxygen in fuel cells to Friday instead of Saturday, deciding to end the mission a redundant computers and two 
crew. produce electricity for the flight director Granvil Pen­day early. Discovery currently data display screens. 
The five crew members mon­shuttle systems, with water as nington said. But he stressed is scheduled to land Saturday · Mter the "powering down" itored scientific experiments a byproduct. that no decision has been made. at Edwards Air Force Base, Tuesday morning, the crew and photographed environmen­"There are no safety prob­"Right now, we're still plan­Calif., at 6:34a.m. PST. continued with planned tasks tal damage on the Earth, a day lems associated with it and no ning to land on Saturday,'' Pen­NASA spokesman Jeff Vin­after they roared into orbit and electrical problems," ground nington said. "There's nothing cent said late Tuesday after-see SHUTILE, page 4 

Ex-husband will plead insanity in local murder 
Associated Press  binding resolution calling for  he didn't know what informa­ 
SOUTH BEND­A man charged with murder in the beating death of his former wife during a brief furlough from prison intends to plead in­sanity, his attorney told a judge Tuesday. Alan L. Matheney, 38, has been transferred from the St. Joseph County jail, where he  the governor to suspend all tion the tapes contained but prisoner release programs said they might help the while a study can be conducted. defense. Matheney had been serving Chief Deputy Prosecutor an eight-year sentence for John D. Krisor said the record­beating his ex-wife, Lisa M. ings apparently were related to Bianco, and criminally confin­the 1987 battery case against ing her two daughters. Matheney. Krisor said he did Prison officials failed to not know whether the prosecu­notify Ms. Bianco, 29, of his tor's office had the tapes. release hours before the March Ms. Bianco had divorced  
was assaulted March 6, to the Indiana State Prison at Mic­ 4 assault, despite her requests and Matheney's continued hos­ Matheney in 1985 and last year became a counselor for bat­ 
higan City, according to aut­horities. The county ordered the transfer, which was not sought  tility toward her, according to a Board of Correction report released Monday. Ms. Bianco was beaten to  tered women at the Elkhart County Women's Shelter. She also joined the Mishawaka Commission on the Status of  
by Matheney, said his court­ death outside her Mishawaka  Women.  
appointed  defense  attorney  home with  an  unloaded shot­ Hours before the slaying, of­ 
Philip  Skodinski.  No  arrests  gun. She died of a massive skull  ficials at the Industrial Correc­ 
have been made in the attack.  fracture, a coroner said.  tional Complex  at  Pendleton  
Skodinski gave no indication  gave Matheney the eight-hour  
St.  Joseph  Superior  Court  in court whether a formal plea  furlough to confer with an at­ 
Judge  Jeanne  J. Swartz  ac­ of insanity would be entered  torney in Indianapolis.  
cepted the insanity notice and  later. No date  was  set for  a  Matheney should have been  
said  she  would  appoint  two  third hearing.  restricted to the Indianapolis  
psychiatrists to examine Math­ Prosecutor Michael Barnes  area, about 40 miles southwest  
eney and determine his compe­ said he would decide later this  of  Pendleton  and  160 miles  
tency to stand trial June 19.  week whether to seek the death  south of Mishawaka, but that  
Matheney's furlough raised a  penalty.  Matheney  is  also  condition did not appear on his  
public furor, prompting Gov.  charged with burglary.  furlough  pass,  according the .  
Evan Bayh to suspend the pro­gram and to order seven prison officials to face disciplinary hearings. On Tuesday, the Indiana House voted 76-22 for a non- At the hearing, Matheney asked the prosecutors for tape recordings of telephone con­versations between Ms. Bianco and Matheney made before his imprisonment. Skodinski said  Correction Board rep8rt. Seven officials from the De­partment of Correction were ordered to face disciplinary hearings for Matheney's release.  The Observer I Man Minino Hooping it up ND students exercise their athletic prowess and enjoy the warm weather in a game of basketball on Stepan courts.  

Two women apprehended for trespassing in Siegfried 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Staff Reporter 
Security escorted two young women off campus Tuesday for trespassing in Siegfried Hall. 
The two women were solicit­ing magazine subscriptions on campus without permission, said Phil Johnson, assistant director of security. "The wo­men were not invited guests, nor did they have permission (to solicit on campus)," said Johnson. 
They were told if they return to campus they will be arrested for trespassing on private prop­erty, said Johnson. 
Residents of the hall called security when the women ar­rived at Siegfried Hall late Tuesday morning. Security lo­cated the two women who said they were selling subscriptions for United Subscription Ser­vices of Ft. Worth, Texas, said Johnson. 
Johnson said the women told security that they were on campus for two days and were accompanied by two other wo­men and eight men. The solicitors appeared to be college-age and some Siegfried residents said tbat they claimed to be Notre Dame stu­dents that lived off-campus and had permission to sell on campus, according to Johnson. They did not, however, say this to security. 
''A major concern is that people enter the dorm under the guise of selling and commit larceny," said Johnson. He added that this is not a suspicion in this case at this point. 
"We encourage all students to report suspicious door-to­door sales to security," said Johnson. "We would rather have people call us than wish they did." 
Johnson added that any door­to-door soliciting is prohibited at Notre Dame. 
Freshman Julie Jackoboice was one of the Siegfried resi­dents who was solicited to on Tuesday. She said that the wo­man who came to her dorm room said she was a fifth-year accounting major. 
"The person told me that she was selling magazines because if she sells the most magazines she will get $1,000 and a free trip," said Jackoboice. "She showed me an I.D. with a pic­ture, it was not a University I.D., but it was laminated." 
J ackoboice said that she asked how much the magazine_ cost and immediately the wo­man began writing out an or­der. "She said she was excited because she would get 20 more points towards the contest," said Jackoboice. "She g<P~e me a receipt for $26 and I didn't even want the magazine." 
The woman also asked Jack­oboice if she could use her name as a reference. Jack­oboice said the woman was very friendly and talked with her about her roommate and school. 

' I 
page 2 The Observer Wednesday, March 15, 1989 
-i~l#ti•J:UeJIIJMi-

OF INTEREST 


Leveille's presence on campus will be missed 
All good things must come to an end some­time, but Father Andre Leveille's resignation as director of Campus Ministry at the end of this year will be a hard parting blow to many in the Notre Dame community. 
Though he has served only four years as head of Campus Ministry, Leveille has been part of the Notre Dame family since his ordination 11 years ago. His priestly ministry has made him a visible presence on campus, but his charisma and personality have brought him into thousands of lives here and elsewhere. 
It only takes a brief conversation with him to experience Leveille's easygoing, understand­ing manner. He is easy to talk to and ready to listen, but one of his greatest talents is speak­ing. 
Much of Leveille's ministry involves counsel­ing and consoling students and parents in dif­ficult times, such as death or illness. At Mass, Father Leveille brings the gospel to life through visual examples, often bringing some object on the altar to illustrate his message. 
What kind of person always has a comforting word or something to say that sheds new light on an old story? What kind of person strives to make people feel welcome or takes time to chat once in awhile? Someone who cares. Someone like Father Leveille. 



The Cushwa-Leighton Library 
at Saint Mary's College will open on Sundays at 11 a.m., two hours earlier than usual, beginning this Sunday, March 19, and continuing through the remainder of the semester. The library will open at its regularly scheduled times of 
7:45 a.m. Monday through Friday, and 9 a.m. on Satur­days. Closing time will remain midnight, seven days a week. For more information, contact the library at 284­5280. -The Observer 
The ,1989 Future Teacher Scholarship Pro­gram sponsored by the Metropolitan Life Foundation, is open to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. Applicants must be upperclass or graduate students who intend to become elementary or secondary classroom teachers. Ap­plicant information is available at the president's office of the Education Department, the Financial Aid office, and the Library. All applications must be postmarked by April 15. -The Observer 
Heartlight will explore healthy diet alternatives as University Food Services provides a "Heart-Safe" menu in the dining halls. Register for the Heartlights 3 Mile Fun Run to be held on March 15 at 4:30 p.m. StartFinish at Stepan. -The Observer 
This is the last day applications are available for Summer Hall Manager and Assistant Hall Manager in the Office of Student Residences. Applications should be taken to Room 311 Administration Building until 5 p.m. -The Observer 
First Annual Student Globalization Forum will be at 7:00p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. Guest speakers include Reverend Theodore Res­burgh and Oleg Vasilyev, a Soviet Student. -The Observer 
The St. Edward's Hall Forum will feature Professor and Provost Timothy O'Meara responding to the question "Should Notre Dame become the Princeton or the Harvard of the Midwest?" tonight at 7 p.m. in the first floor lounge at St. Ed's. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Pom-Pon Squad will have an organizational meeting today at 9:30 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room on the 2nd Floor of LaFortune for all those interested in tryouts for the 1989-90 squad. For info call Lisa £4304 or Julie £4231. -The Observer 
CILAtCSC Mexico Program issponsoringthesecond of four preparatory sessions tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Coffee House at the CSC. The topic to be discussed is Mexico: People and Culture. -The Observer 
Student Art Exhibit Applications can be picked up in the Office of Student Activities on the 3rd Floor of LaFortune. Deadline for submittance of artwork is Thursday, March 16. For more information, contact Josef Henriquez at 283-1584. -The Observer 
Applications for Bartenders for the Alumni-Senior Club are now available at the Office of Student Activities, 3rd Floor LaFortune. They are due by April 7th. -The Observer 
Irish Night at the Alley is Wed. March 15. Free round trip to the Beacon Bowl. Buses start at 8:45 from the Main Circle. Bowl all night and get a discount with your student ID. -The Observer 
The March CAPP meeting will feature Dr. Patrick Utz, a Director from the University Consulting Center. The topic is Stress: What is it, What to look for, How to Deal with it, 7 p.m. in the library lounge. -The Observer 

Design Editor .................... Kathy Gliwa Accent Copy Editor ......... Colleen Cronin Typesetters .......................... Mike Kolar Accent Designer ................. Alison Cocks ............................................. Chris Malin Typists ................................. Sue Barton News Editor ....................... Sara Marley ............................................ Rosi Lazada Copy Editor .............. Florentine Hoelker ND Day Editor .................. Kathy Burns Sports Copy Editors ...... Steve Megargee SMC Day Editor ............. Alissa Murphy ......................................... Theresa Kelly Photographer..................... Matt Mittino Viewpoint Copy Editor ....... Mike Truppa Business Editor .................. Tim O'Keefe Viewpoint Layout ............... Laura Manzi Business Layout .............. Janice O'Leary
Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin 
'ne .,..._ (USPS S99 l..eoDO) is published Monday throuah Friday except dariJia cum ud v.c:alion periods. ne.,..._is published by tile students of the Uaivtnity of Notte o.-ud s.int Muy'l Collep. Sublaipcions may be purdlu­ed far 140 per yar (US per sancstcr) by writiaa ne ..._,P.O. Box Q, Notte DIIIM, ladiua 46SS6. 
'ne o..n.is a IIICIIIbcr of 'ne AllociaiiiiJ ..... AIJ rcp111duction riabts are 
~ 
A native of Quebec, Leveille's French name (LEH-vay-ay) means "The Awakener," sym­bolized by a rooster. 
It's no irony that he awakens a spirit of caring and compassion in people he meets. Didn't Jesus Christ do the same? 
That's why it should come as no surprise when Father Leveille seems to go out of his way to do something nice or make a homily more in­teresting with visual effects. Leveille is only following Our Lord's example. 
As a priest, Leveille's kindness and compas­sion are almost expected, but he would show those qualities even if he weren't. "When vou speak from your own life experience, you be­come more credible as a priest," Leveille said. He should know--he's shared the experiences of many different lives during his years here. 

Leveille isn't resigning because he wants to, but his job as director of Campus Ministry has taken a toll on his health. A calendar crammed with appointments is proof of Leveille's active commitment to serving others. Jesus, whose last act on Earth was for others, asked his dis­ciples not to be served, but to serve. In this, Father Leveille is truly a disciple of Our Lord. 
His leave next year is richly deserved but he will be sorely missed. Fortunately, Leveille will come back to Notre Dame in 1990. 
Those he leaves behind shouldn't worry who will replace him at Campus Ministry but re­member what "Father Andre" did, why he did it, and strive to do the same until he returns. 
We needsomeone with 

theronfidenceofa~,thededicationoC amarathoner andthe rourageofane.xplortt. 
We need a Peac~ Corps volumeer Call us a1 1-80()....424-8580, Ell. 9". 
PeaceCorps. 
n.rsoupr.JOiop"'~kM. 





Wednesday, March 15, 1989 The Observer page 3 
HPC discusses Christmas in April 
-Ih-e·-Obse.-. ~~r-­
-------A.-=Y=-.W ---­
faces possible life imprisonment 

By MAURA KRAUSE Staff Reporter 
Volunteers for Christmas in April was one of the topics of last night's HPC meeting. 
Former Student Body Presi­dent Pat Coo~e and current Student Body Vice-President Mike Paese addressed the council about the project, in which students help to repair homes in the South Bend area. 
"You don't have to be a carpenter to participate," said Paese. Students can sign up in the residence halls through the beginning of next week. 
The finalized plans for the up­coming Charity ball were also announced. The ball, open to both students and members of the South Bend community, will featul'e music by "In Sync," a jazz band, and "The 
Associated Press is currently accepting applications for the 
WASHINGTON-· Terrorist

following position: 
Fawaz Younis, who was lured to his arrest on the high seas, was convicted Tuesday in U.S.
News Editor 
District Court of hijacking a Jordanian airliner in Beirut and holding 70 people hostage for 30 hours.
A resume and a two-page personal statement 
Federal officials immedi­is d"!le to Matt Gallagher by 3 p.m. 
ately claimed the verdict as the on Tuesday, March 21. 
first affirmation of a 1984 statute asserting for the United 
Call 239-5303 or 283-1957 for information. 
States "long-arm" jurisdiction over the taking of American hostages aboard. 
Attorney General Dick

SENIOR CLUB BILLIARDS Thornburgh hailed the verdict 
most serious offense, taking

r................................................................................... ..
~




I-BALL 
IINVEST IN AN INTERNATIONAL !
3-CUSHION BILLIARDS SNOOKER 

~ EXPERIENCE ~ 
WE HAVE THE BEST "SHOOTIN" TABLES IN 
I AT SAINT LOUIS UNNERSITY'S MADRID I
THE AREA, WITH A QUIET PLAYING ATMOSPHERE. 
I CENTER SUMMER ANDOR FALL-SPRING ~ 
~ 89t90 ACADEMIC YEAR. BUSINESS,
EVERYONE PLAYS "POOL" AT THE: 
I 
ADMINISTRATION, HISPANIC STUDIES,

SENIORS CLUB BILLIARDS 603 E. WASHINGTON 
~ POLITICAL SCIENCE, ETC. FOR SOUTH BEND 287-7324· 
~ INFORMATION OPEN MONDAY THRU SATURDAY 9 AM-? 
I 
PHONE 1 (800) 325-6666 


Groove." Approximately $6,000 has already been raised from corporate sponsorship of the dance alone. The money raised by the ball will be split between overseas and community causes. 

. r • 
The Charity ball will be held in South Dining Hall on Friday, March 31 beginning at 8:30. Tickets are $12 per person and $20 a couple. 
The Third Annual Fisher Regatta, a campus-wide homemade boat race, is sched­uled for April 15. The regatta will feature a live band and a cookout lunch. Prizes will be awarded to the winner and to the boat with the most original design. Proceeds from the regatta will go the the Andre House homeless shelter in 


at South Dining Hall. 
Phoenix, Ariz. 


Terrorist convicted in 1985 attack, 
as "a boost for our efforts to effectively deal with interna­tional terrorism." 
The ,Lebanese Younis, bearded and with black hair, showed no emotion as a female interpreter relayed the verdict the jury reached after three days of deliberations: guilty on three counts, innocent on three others. 
While the jury of seven wo­men and five men filed out of the courtroom, Younis chatted with the Arabic interpreter, 
and  appeared  relaxed  and  
smiling.  
For  his  conviction  on  the  



University Food Services 
presents 
3 Mile 


FREE 
Open to all students, 
Nutritious foods 

faculty, and staff 
to refresh and refuel 

Wednesday, March 
4:30 P.M. Free Pizza 
TO THE DORM WITH THE MOST RACE PARTICIPANTS 
Two Italian Bikes 
TO THE BEST MALE AND FEMALE RUNNER 
15 
Free T-Shirts FOR ALL RACE PARTICIPANTS 
Registration at both Dining Halls, Oakroom and Huddle 




I~ I 
~ 
~ 
hostages, the 30-year-old Younis could be sentenced to life in prison. 

"This case demonstrates the determination of the United States government to bring to justice in the United States in­ternational terrorists who vic­timize U.S. citizens wherever violence and hostage-taking acts are committed," U.S. at­torney Jay B. Stephens said in a statement. 
Younis' court-appointed at­torney, Francis D. Carter, con­tested the government claim and said he would appeal the conviction on grounds that the United States ought not to have jurisdiction over the 1985 hijacking. He said he also would appeal on grounds the military was involved in the ar­rest. 
"It is an outrage," said Carter. The case "was not about the United States" and the two Americans aboard the aircraft were not harmed. 
Younis was lured aboard a yacht in international waters in the Mediterranean Sea on Sept. 13, 1987, with the prospect of a drug deal and a party. 
He was slammed to the deck by members of the FBI hostage rescue squad and interrogated for four days aboard a Navy munitions ship. Then, after he gave a detailed confession, he was flown non-stop from the deck of an aircraft carrier to Washington. 
Doctors later found he had suffered hairline fractures of both wrists during the arrest. But during his interrogation, the swelling was treated only with bags of ice. 
"Mr. Younis did not expect an awful lot from the United States after the means used to arrest him," Carter said. 

'"~~ 1"-'-1 llo,d! k'>~lt ..·rnun 
'"'"''"".... '''""'" 
, .. -~ J<ll'!,! "•RI.ar• ln·f1tr4J •~Ill!; I nolnl\oll•"'• 
'""" l'rt•l<l<111 ·~ \""'"" 
Ifthe press didn't tell us,who would? 
l''i!l'l prmtctl lllhlrmdlllllllm th~· n1k ''' J trn· pn,_·"dllll hot\\ II fllltlt:t:l" \IIUT riJ!hl' liT Ill di'C.'U'" dll\ Jn.T flrl:'-' '''IIC.' ldll 11\t')lhl 
-\f!WIItlm~·ntl"l'/Ul'TJ\1-XIIII-5-'llhlHI 

.------------------------­
-----~-------------­
page 4 The Observer Wednesday, March 15, 1989 
FDA intensifies testing of Chilean grapes, fruit 
Associated Press nounced that traces of cyanide Canadian officials also urged said U.S. officials are working puncture area, the FDA said. 
had been found in two seedless that Chilean fruit be removed with Chile in evaluating the ex­Each grape had 0.003 mil­
WASHINGTON-The Food red grapes that were part of a from stores in Canada. Addi­tent of the problem. Chile has ligrams of the poison, but the and Drug Administration in­batch of about 2,000 grape­tionally, news reports in Japan beefed up its own controls, and agency said it could not deter­tensified its testing of grapes bunches sampled at the port in said the Japanese Embassy in U.S. officials are trying to mine how much cyanide had and other Chilean fruit Tues­Philadelphia, where they had Santiago had received a assess how broad the contami­been originally introduced,day while the Bush administra­been shipped from Chile three similar call warning of cyanide nation is here, he said. since the poison dissipates in tion worked with officials of the days before a poisoning threat poisoning and that Japanese of­"We are greatly concerned the acidic environment of the South American country to de­was telephoned to the U.S. em­ficials have halted Chilean fruit about that," he said. "It's a fruit, said FDA spokesman Bill termine the scope of an appar­bassy there. imports. question of staying with the Grigg. A level of 200 milligramsent cyanide poisoning attempt. ·At the urging of the agency, Young met with top-level monitoring, trying to check out is considered a lethal dosage
Meanwhile, FDA commis­supermarkets moved quickly Bush aides and told reporters the system, and to evaluate the for an adult, and 25 milligramssioner Frank Young advised to remove all Chilean fruit that U.S. officials will meet risk on a continuing basis and would make an adult sick, he Americans to be "safe rather from their shelves, and dis­"with representatives of the keep the public informed as we said. than sorry" by discarding all tributors held produce from the Chilean fruit growers, also the go along." If an adult ate a dozen grapes fruit in their refrigerators un­South American country in government of Chile, the FDA, Low levels of cyanide were each containing the level of less they are certain it was warehouses until further test­FBI, and we'll get a joint strat­found in two discolored grapes, cyanide found in the con­grown somewhere other than ing could be done. Virtually all egy. We hope to do that soon." both of which had been punc­taminated samples "you prob­Chile. grapes sold at this time of year At the White House, press tured and had a ring of crys­ably wouldn't even notice it,"
The FDA on Monday an-in U.S. markets are from Chile. secretary Marlin Fitzwater talline material around the he said. 
Shuttle 
continued from page 1 
such as monitoring experi­
ments and photographing en­
vironmentally damaged areas 
such as the rain forests of 
Brazil and the Mexican 
coastline. 
Pennington said the crew's power conservation efforts would not hurt the experi­ments. 
On Monday, several hours after Discovery's liftoff, the crew completed their primary task-deployment of a $100 mil­lion Tracking Data and Relay Satellite to complete a commu­nications network that will al­low shuttle astronauts to have nearly constant contact with Mission Control. 
The satellite joins one fully functioning and one backup TDRs· in orbit 22,300 miles above the Earth to relay radio communications between shuttles and the Earth during 85 percent of each orbit. 
Using ground relay stations, radio contact is possible only when the shuttle is roughly above each station, a total of about 15 percent of each orbit. 
The space agency will soon close six ground stations at a monthly savings of $3 million. 
Also on board Discovery are four rats, who each had a leg bone cut before the launch. The student experiment is designed to study how bones heal in space. 
Another student experiment aboard the shuttle consists of fertilized chicken eggs stored in an incubator. The experi­ment is aimed at determining whether an embryo can develop normally in zero 
gravity. 
Ihe-Obs-e~~or__ 
= ----&.~Y~'--·---·-­
is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
Accounts Payable Manager Accounts Receivable Manager Payroll Manager Purchasing Manager 
For more information, call Rich Iannelli at 239-7471 
-Excellence in Media 

.... . ................. 
. .. 
~ 
...... :... 

The PowerofOne Person CaringAboutAnother. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Hesburgh Library Auditorium 

Sun., March 19 
2:30p.m. 

ADMISSION IS FREE! 

WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 
A-workshop for couples in a serious relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future including the possibility of marriage. 

OFFICE OF 
0MPUS 

MINISTRY 
University of Notre Dome Notre OQme, IN 46556 
utrmy CorcoiiW 219•239·6538 Bodin Hall 219•239·5242 

TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: -Stages of relationships -Expectations for the future 
-Step~ in making healthy decisions 
COMMENTS FROM LAST TIME: 
-"an excellent opportunity to examine our relationship in a comprehensive way" -"a good balance of time together, lecture and take-home materials" -"It was nice to be able to have time set aside to really sit down and discuss issues!" -"1 was lad I traveled 4hrs. to be here with my partner." 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Controller 
must be a junior accounting major 
For more information, call Rich Iannelli at 239-7471 
~ tlr.-. "' • .,. ., "' ~ .-, 
Happy St. Patrick's Day From 

~~~~ 







IRISH 

GARDENS 
SATURDAY, APRIL 1ST 12:30-5 PM 
PRE-REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. 

Applications can be picked up at either Campus Ministry Office: Badin Hall or Library Concourse. 
Applications are due by Wednesday, March 29th. 

Wednesday, March 15, 1989 The Observer page 5 
Union to give $9 million monthly to Eastern pilots 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The Air Line Pilots Association, easing the way for 3,600 pilots honoring Machinist union picket lines at Eastern Airlines, said Tuesday it will give its members nearly $9 million a month in strike benefits. 
The pilots union also said its 41,000 members would not fly planes or routes sold to other airlines by Eastern, which declared bankruptcy last week, unless a comparable number of Eastern pilots were also hired, and at full seniority. 
John Bavis, head of the Eas­tern pilots group, said the strike benefit-$2,400 a month­was designed to remove the company's "last enticement" to pilots who have refused to work until the Machinists set­tle. Only 2 percent of unionized Eastern pilots have crossed picket lines, he said. 
"Despite management's claim, we haven't cracked, we haven't given in," Bavis said, estimating that the company was operating with fewer than 200 pilots, many of whom he said have already worked the maximum 100 hours a month allowed by the Federal Avia­tion Administration. 
"This is a critical time for all airline pilots," said Henry Duf­fy, the president of the pilots union. "All 41,000 pilots will reach deep into their pockets," kicking in an average of $300 a month, "to help the Eastern pilots who are reaching deep within themselves to cope with the personal and professional risks of their action." 
Duffy said the union would also draw on its $37 million strike fund to begin paying the 


UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES 
NEED STUDENTS ASSISTANCE FOR THE 1988 NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP FIGHTING IRISH FOOTBALL DINNER 
Friday, March 17, 1989 Notre Dame Students, St. Mary's Students, Holy Cross Students Can Sign Up in the basement of South Dining Hall 
Waiters, Waitresses, Laborers .. are all needed. 


strike benefit, which will give 
members less than half their 
regular salaries. 

The pilots will also get 
interest-free loans of up to 
$2,000 to cover paychecks for 
work performed before the 
strike but which Eastern 
refused to issue after filing for 
bankruptcy. 

Late next week, if the strike 
that began March 4 is still on, 
the 8,500 striking machinists 
will get upwards of $100 in 
benefits from their union, the 
International Association of 
Machinists, said union spokes­
man Bob Kalaski. 

The pilots union, in a meeting 
Monday of members represen­
ting 47 airlines, unanimously 
agreed to refuse to fly Eastern 
routes or planes that might be 
sold to other airlines unless 
Eastern pilots were hired to go 
along with the assets. 

Duffy said the pilots agreed to make their position known to airlines that might negotiate with Eastern to buy its assets. The union accuses Frank Lorenzo, head of Texas Air Corp., which owns Eastern, of planning to dismantle Eastern and cash in on its assets. 
Eastern is running only a small fraction of its more than 1,000 daily flights. Officials have said they plan to scale down the airline, possibly sell­ipg off such assets as planes and routes to other carriers. 
A $365 million sale of the air­line's profitable Northeast shuttle operations to New York developer Donald Trump is 
awaiting approval from the 
... FAA and the federal bank­
ruptcy court in New York. 


lo-N ~  "Christmas in April" is spreading  
nation-wide. A national office has been  
set up, and both Alexandria, Va., and  
~~onvalk, Ct., have followed the lead  
11IE HISTORY: "Christmas in April"  of Washington and Kansas City in  
was started in midland, Texas, about  launching local programs.  
ten years ago. A senior editor at Reader's  During the year 1989, Philadelphia,  
Digest visited the site to do a story on the project, and was so impressed with  A similar program named "Christmas in October," has been instituted in  Baltimore, and East Palo Alto will join the growing list of "Christmas in April"  
it that he came back to Washington, D.C.,  Kansas City, Missouri, and has had  Cities across the country.  
called a few friends, and started a  enormous success. This past fall 250  
"Christmas in April" project of his own  homes were repaired using the skills  We are proud to have South Bend on  
in the nation's capital. The program  and energy of over 4,000 volunteers.  this list as well. We hope that you will  
is now in its seventh :rear of operation  . help make it a success. We need your  
in D.C. and this coq year plans to  help.  
repair 85 homes in the inner city area.  This ad is sponsored by Student Government.  

Wednesday, March 15, 1989.
page 6 The Observer 

Save up to 50% off the Suggested Retail Price on Apple brand peripherals with the purchase of qualifying Macintosh® Systems. Rebates up to $800 per system. Hurry, offer expires March 31. 

Full-titne Students, 
Faculty and Staff, 
Contact: Notre Dame Computer Store Room 25 Computing Center 
239-7477 
Hours: 9:00-5:00pm Monday thru Friday 
© 1989 Apple Computer, Inc. , Apple, the Apple logo and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. 
Wednesday, March 15, 1989 The Observer page 7 




Senate hearings on Cheney open 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Defense Secretary-designate Dick Cheney cautioned Tuesday against any U.S. reductions in military strength in response to changes in the Soviet Union, as the Senate Armed Services Committee opened hearings on President Bush's replacement for John Tower. 
"It would be a great mistake to reduce our own military ca­pabilities and lessen our defense posture," the six-term Wyoming congressman told the committee. 
Coming after a bitter Senate debate over the Tower nomina­tion, the first day of consider­ation of Cheney's nomination was marked by strong words of praise, sentimentality and indications of new bipartisan­ship. 
Sen. Malcolm Wallop, R­Wyo., a member of the Armed Services panel, said Cheney's "sense of humility and a sense of presence served him well and will serve America well." 
If the Senate confirms Cheney, Wyoming's only con­gressman, it will be a "big loss to Wyoming, a big loss to the House of Representatives but a big gain to America, a big gain to the president he agreed to serve," said Wallop. 
Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., the committee chairman, said the panel "agreed with the White House to do what we could this week" on the nomination, but added that they would "not be taking any shortcuts." 
The Georgia Democrat said action on the nomination would be determined by the speed in which the committee receives the necessary information on Cheney. The panel is still awaiting letters from the White House and Pentagon counsels on Cheney's financial record and the FBI background check. 
At the White House, press secretary Marlin Fitzwater was asked when the FBI checks on Cheney would be finished. 
"They're trying to move those as rapidly as possible. .. .I don't have a specific date," he said. 

Feeling Good 

Commander Michael Coats, and Mission 
Specialist Robert Springer See related story 
page 1. (File Photo) 






PHILIP AGEE 
1956 Notre Dame Graduate and Former CIA Agent ON CAMPUS Wednesday, March 15 8:00pm in Washington Hall 
In 1969, after 12 years with the CIA, Agee became disallusioned with its covert activities and resigned. One year later he began work on his first book, Inside the Company: CIA Diary, which exposed many CIA undercover operations and agents in Latin America. Under pressure from 
U.S. 
government officials, 5 NATO countries banned Agee and his family from their borders. After 15 years in exile, Agee was allowed back in the 

U.S. 
in 1987. He is currently doing a lecture tour and promoting his sixth and most recent book, The CIA for Beginners, due out this year. 


"I have nothing but disdain "Philip Agee was not only morally for Philip Agee. [He is] entitled to expose the CIA, he had disgraceful and dispicable for a legal duty to do so under the blowing the cover of people who Nuremburg Principals." served their country ... " 
-George Bush -Sean MacBride President of the United Sates, 1987 Former U.S Assistant Secretary 
See and Hear Philip Agee this Wednesday at 8:oopm in Washington Hall. Admission is free. Limited seats available. 
Richmond police fail to report for work 
Associated Press 
RICHMOND, Ind.-More than half of the Richmond police day shift did not report for work Tuesday, a day after a senior commander was charged with two counts of obstructing justice. 
Police Chief Joseph A. Nimitz said 17 of the 30 to 32 officers who usually work the Tuesday day shift did not show up, but he was at a loss to explain why. 
"It's some type of protest," Nimitz said. "I won't know what it's about until tomorrow, when I talk to them." 
Nimitz said he has indica­

tions the missing officers would 
return to work Wednesday. 
Only one or two patrol offi­cers failed to report, meaning street patrols were near full strength, Nimitz said. The chief did not identify the offi­cers who were out, but they ap­parently included detectives, juvenile officers and traffic of­ficers. 
Nimitz said he doubted any disciplinary action would be taken against the missing offi­cers. 
Mayor Frank H. Walter­mann was out of town and could not be reached for comment. 
Charges were filed Monday against Maj. Tom Cox in con­nection with the November shooting of a pit bull terrier. Cox stands accused of ordering police reports about the inci­dent altered and destroyed. 
Cox is on leave until the mat­ter is resolved and will receive full pay, unless Nimitz is advised otherwise, the chief said. 
"He will be vigorously 

defended relative to these 
charges," Nimitz said. 
However, City Attorney Ken­

neth E. Barden said the city 
could not defend Cox in a cri­
minal case. 
Cox is scheduled to be ar­

raigned March 30 in Wayne Cir­
cuit Court. 
Business 
page 8 Wednesday, March 15, 1989 
Banks earn record profits despite record failures 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-U.S. banks earned a record $25.3 billion last year, the government said Monday, but a top regulator chided the industry for passing on more than half the profits to stockholders and advised banks to adopt a more conser­vative approach. 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman L. William Seidman said bank profits for the three months ending Dec. 31 hit $6.7 billion, an all-time high and $800 million more than the previous record of $5.9 bil­lion set in the third quarter. 
"This is the first time we have ever seen consecutive record-setting quarters," he said in a speech prepared for delivery to the New York Soci­ety of Securities Analysts. 
The U.S. economy, as mea­sured by the gross national product, last year expanded at the fastest pace in four years and banks' business expanded along with it. Also, Third World loan problems, which fQrced banks to take big losses in 1987, improved somewhat last year. 
For all of 1988, the nation's 13,200 commercial banks earned $25.3 billion, up from $3.7 billion in 1987 and topping the previous high of $18.1 bil­lion, set in 1985. 
Ironically, last year's bank profits were earned while an all-time high of 221 banks failed. Four-fifths of them were in the energy-producing states of Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana 
and Colorado, areas suffering from a regional recession. 
Banks' return on profits, a commonly used yardstick, was 
0.84 percent last year, up from a record low 0.02 percent in 1987 and the highest since 1973, .when it was 0.86 percent. 
Seidman cautioned, however, that the earnings fig­ures were inflated by "many unusual non-recurring events." 
The nation's largest banks in the fourth quarter began recording interest income on loans to Brazil, which ended an 
'IRA Era' over, but loopholes open 
By William Wilson and Gloria t:row, Chizek and Company 
In 1981, . Individual Retire­ment Account (IRA) allowed every wage earner with a min­imum annual income of $2,000 to make a fully tax deductible contribution of up to $2,000 to an IRA each year. 
The tax benefit was twofold. In the year of the contribution, the worker could deduct the $2,000 from his or her income. In the meantime, the interest on the account would accum­ulate tax-free until withdrawal any time after the contributor reached the age of 59 12. Both the interest and the contribu­tions would then be taxed, but at the retiree's lower tax rate. 
The "IRA Era" ended with the 1986 tax reform which eliminated the automatic $2,000 deduction. In its place, Congress enacted a sliding scale of deductible contributions-from the full $2,000 down to 0-plus a slew of new rules on who is eligible for what. 
Are you still eligible for a de­ductible contribution? 
It depends. 
As in most matters of eligibility, a lot depends on your income and marital status. It also depends on whe­ther or not you or your spouse (if you have one) participates in an employer-sponsored re­tirement plan. 
Planless People: 
No matter how much money 
you make, you are eligible for 
a fully deductible $2,000 contri­
bution as long as you 1) Do 
make a minimum of $2,000 a 
year, but 2) Do not participate 
in an employer-sponsored re­
tirement plan. 
If you are married and both you and your spouse work--but neither of you participates in a retirement plan at work--you can each make a fully deduct­ible $2,000 contribution. Again, the sky is the limit for income. As long as each of you makes a minimum of $2,000 a year, you will be eligible for a $4,000 deduction on your joint return. 
If you are married and your spouse does not work, you can still contribute a combined total of $2,250 to your IRAs, to be allocated as you wish, as long as neither spouse is all­ocated more-than $2,000. 
Planned People 
You and your spouse may think of yourselves as indepen­dent individuals, but the IRS does not. If one of you par­ticipates in a retirement plan at work, both of you are con­sidered "active participants" when it comes to IRAs and the IRS. 
As active participants, you may still be eligible for a fully or partially deductible contri­bution, depending on your ad­justed gross income (AGI). 
Couples with a combined AGI of $40,000 or less can still make fully deductible contributions, even if one or both spouses are participants in employer­sponsored retirement plans. Couples with AGI between $40,000 and $50,000 can make partly deductible contribu­tions. 
If you are single and covered by a retirement plan at work, the same basic rules apply. If your AGI is less than $25,000, you can still make a fully de­ductible contribution. If you make an adjusted gross income of $35,000 or more, you're out of luck as far as IRAs are con­cerned. If your AGI is between $25,000 and $35,000, you can make a partially deductible contribution. Chances are that most Hoosiers are eligible for deductible IRA contributions 
even if they participate in employer-sponsored retire­ment plans. 
If you are eligible, is it too late to contribute to a 1988 IRA? 
No, but hurry. You have until April 15, 1989 to make a contri­bution to a 1988 IRA and still take the deduction on your 1988 return. 
interest moratorium earlier in the year. Also, the big loss posted by First RepublicBank Corp. of Dallas was excluded from the industry's year-end results because it was closed by regulators and reopened un­der a new owner. Those two factors alone pumped up 1988 earnings by more than $4 bil­lion. 
Seidman, whose agency in­sures deposits up to $100,000, chided bankers for boosting dividends to stockholders by 24 percent to $13 billion. 
"That amount represents 52 percent of the year's earnings. A more conservative approach would have provided a greater 
surge 
ports wa:s ~JioUI . sharp wr.'t.•<:;an investment sheet, the gQ:Vettl'lj'ent.said
day.·························"········· 
The Commerce Depart­m,ent sa!~. the deficit if?.the 
current ~(!co rank.')2.l percent in 19 er hitting an all-time high of $153.96 billion in•l987 
The eurren known the ul11l1u,;..: 
capital base to improve 1989 earnings," he said. 
Seidman also noted the emer­gence of real estate loan prob­lems in the East and in some areas in the West. Bank perfor­mance in those regions "is gen­erally quite good," he said, but warned, "Prudence, not go-go 
growth, should be their motto these days." 
Thirty banks have failed so far this year, compared with 44 during the same period last year. 
"The good news is that we see fewer bank failures in 1989 and beyond," Seidman said. 
category shrank 
76 percent last year to a 
$4.?6 billio11, down (tom 
.76 billion in 1987. 'M> Analysts said this 

,,, .,.peflected the growing owner­
• ·ship by foreigners of u.s. government and corporate securities, bank deposits, ·factories and land. As these holdings increase, the .amount of money foreigners earn on,theircU.S. invest· 
rments grows as well. ·· "Interest on our f'nT•o;,,., . .. is rising .u.nunau,cc:UIJ 
Milton Friedman speaks on the U.S. economy and the Fed 
• Federal Reserve Chair­Friedman's praise for "The recent run-ups in cause I have never believedBy LOUIS RUKEYSER 
Tribune Media Services man Alan Greenspan Greenspan was not unal­prices are, in my judgment, that there is a short-term re­
deserves high praise for loyed. The retired Univer­a delayed reaction to the lation" that he consistently 
America's most influen­keeping monetary policy on sity of Chicago professor, very high rates of monetary called for keeping policytial economist is convinced "a pretty even course" over now living in northern Cali­growth (under Volcker) in steady over extended peri­that-as usual-most of his the past two years, and "on fornia, said Greenspan 1985 and 1986," Friedman ods of time-and not trying colleagues are focusing on the whole has been doing made "one real boner" said., "This inflation is just to "fine tune" the economy. the wrong problem. very well, as compared with when he suggested that about on time; there's gen­
In an exclusive interview his predecessors." balancing the budget was erally a 2-year lag. But we The 76-year-old econo­with this column, Nobel • The country "may be" more important than how don't need tighter money mist's fire was similarly un­laureate Milton Friedman heading for recession-­you balanced it. Not so, now. On the whole monetary dimmed when he denounced said the widespread predic­"We've had them for 200 declared Friedman, who policy has been on a pretty as "a bunch of nonsense" the tions of a resurgence of se­years, and we're not going believes the overwhelming even course over the last two idea that deposit insurance vere inflation will be dis­to be through with them"-­problem is to reduce the years." alone explained the reckless credited before the year is but an attempt to prevent a share of federal spending in management of many S&Ls. out. downturn through easier the United States economy. Friedman's faith is un­"There was an incentive to "I personally have no fear monetary policy would broken that a steady mone­avoid risk as long as there 
of a runaway inflation," merely repeat the disastrous But Greenspan came off tary policy, reducing the was substantial Friedman said. "In fact, I policy errors of the 1970s. far better, in Friedman's rate of money growth by sotckholders' equity, as think we are seeing the high • The true cause of today's ratings, than either Arthur about one percent a year, is there was in the 1960s and point of the current inflation savings-and-loan crisis was Burns, who talked a good the desirable route to a 1970s" Friedman told me. this quarter or next, and the the 1970s inflation. Radical game on inflation but con­sounder American eco­"The effect of the accelerat­rate will then begin to reform of the entire banking tributed to its explosion, or nomy. He denounces those ing inflation of the 1970s was decline gradually." system might be the best so­Paul Volcker, whose eventu­who say monetarists like to erode this equity. Once the 
Friedman made these lution now. The remaining ally successful policies fol­himself failed to predict the equity was eroded, stock­other key points during the S&L's "ought to be allowed lowed a wildly erratic-and 1980s as "just wrong," ar­holders had no incentive not wide-ranging interview: to go out of business." needlessly harmful-course. guing that "it is precisely be-to take risks." 
Viewpoint
Wednesday, March 15, 1989 page 9 
P.O. Box Q 
Bengal Bouts at ND glamorize violence 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to apologize for any un­favorable publicity brought on Notre Dame by our protest of the amateur boxing Bengal Bouts on Feb. 24th. We were surprised by the threat of arrest for distributing material on boxing from the Journal of the American Medi­cal Association and of our own an­notated bibliography of 28 studies done at universities from around the U.S. These latter studies examined the ef­fects of the viewing of boxing on spec­tators. We had leafletted at the Univer­sity of Illinois at the amateur boxing events of the Illinois Prairie State Games for two years without incident (the boxing events have since been dropped). I do think that Notre Dame is making a great mistake in sponsor­ing the brutal, gladiator sport of boxing on its campus each year. 
Notre Dame's Bengal Bouts were used as a defense of Olympic and, in­directly, professional boxing in a widely broadcast public debate I had last fall with a sports writer from the Detroit Free Press. Indeed, the Bengal Bouts were the subject of a research study by Prof. L.R. Sloan, who found that some spectators became more hos­tile and prone to aggression after watching the bouts. Obviously, these re­search studies are talking about small effects that would be unimportant were not the consumption of boxing and other forms of violent entertainment repeated over and over again. 
Boxing is the fourth most popular televised sport in America. Amateur and Olympic boxing clearly leads and gives sanction to professional boxing. Virtually every successful U.S. Olym­pic boxer in recent memory has turned professional shortly after the Olym­pics. The American Medical Associa­tion and numerous other medical groups realized this when they came out for the banning of amateur as well as professional boxing. Some 242 organ­izations from 36 countries have now joined in asking the International Olympic Committee to drop this sport. 
A sport that glamorizes violence and 
has been found in 28 out of 29 scientific 
research studies to cause some in­
creased anger or aggression in normal 
viewers is certainly not a sport for America's leading Catholic university to be supporting. While the National Coalition on Television Violence will never again protest at Notre Dame un­less invited by a student group, I hope that you will seriously study this issue. I hope that Notre Dame will agree with every aggression researcher that I have ever known and conclude that boxing is a violent sport and has no place at a university that holds Jesus as its ethical leader. We all have be­come desensitized by our upbringing. We all make mistakes. Bengal Bouts boxing is one of those mistakes. 
Thomas E. Radecki, M.D. NaUonal Coalition on Television Violence Champaign, IL Feb. 26, 1989 
Bouts pit skiII against skill 
Dear Editor: 
In "Boxing not a sport, but a spec­tacle" (The Observer, Feb. 28) it ap­pears that once again another "ration­al" citizen has come forward and bravely lambasted boxing and the uni­versity's involvement with the sport, the Bengal Bouts. Naturally and rather tediously, the article is chock full of the old chestnuts: "severe brain damage," "rampant brutality," "debilitating ef­fects," "disgust," "repulsion," and "barbaric, condoned, blatant, and un­adulterated violence." Such purple prose is typical of anti-boxing zealots. 
Perhaps Mr. Shadek himself senses that his language is becoming some­what tiresome when he abruptly intro­duces the notion that boxing is a "sexist event." At least the originality of this silly notion is noteworthy, and for a mo­ment it rises above his other overblown ideas. 
For as is usually the case in these denunciations the writer fails to distin­guish between professional fighting and amateur boxing. He doesn't realize that the former is spectacle and that the hit­ter is sport. He lumps "boxing" and the Bengal Bouts together and presents a melodramatic tableau of young men "lying on the floor, preferably bleed­ing." Furthermore, he fails to mention that amateur boxing is statistically safer than such other pastimes as horseback riding and scuba diving. And he completely ignores the fact that in regard to serious injuries, the blocking and tackling of football and the half nel­sons and cross body rides of wrestling are far more dangerous than the "non­stop punching" of boxing which, it seems, he finds so particularly abhor­rent. 
Such ignorance is the rule of anti­boxing diatribes, and one who follows or is involved with amateur boxing grows accustomed to these uninformed attacks and lets them pass. Even Mr. Shadek's boorish declarations about the ultimate meaninglessness of the donations to the Bengal Missions which the bouts make possible can be at­tribtued to foggy thinking. But what. I cannot allow to pass unchallenged is his statement that Notre Dame stu­dents "beat the hell out of each other." Here, then, are the facts. 
The Notre Dame Bengal Bouts have been staged each spring for the past 59 years. During that period, thousands of young men have trained for and par­ticipated in the bouts. Tens of thousands of rounds have been fought, and, to date, not one single boxer has been seriously injured. There are several reasons for this impeccable record. 
First: Each boxer trains very hard and gets into excellent physical condi­tion. Second: Defense is stressed. Boxers are instructed and endlessly drilled on the techniques of blocking and slipping punches. 
Third: The equipment which is used is designed specifically for safety. Headgear and gloves are of the latest innovation. Fourth: All contact sessions are closely supervised. No one may throw a punch unless he is watched by a coach or referee who is in the ring with him. 
Fifth: Sparring and tournament pairings are done as evenly as possible. The result is that both the sparring ses­sions and the bouts themselves are evenly matched, very competitive, and therefore much safer. 
Sixth: Very importantly, Notre Dame boxing is scored according to the Inter­national Boxing Federation system. In this system points are awarded for clean blows landed, effective defense, and sportsmanship. Aggressiveness is not rewarded in this scoring system. Nor do knockdowns merit any special reward. The idea of amateur boxing is to outpoint the opponent, not bludgeon him to he canvas. 
Seventh: Most significantly, referees and instructors immediately stop all sparring sessions and bouts whenever any boxer is in distress. There is no "fight to the bitter end" mentality in the Bengal Bouts. If a boxer is over­matched, the fight is stopped. Instantly. 
No Notre Dame boxer ever has "the 
hell" beaten out of him. In fact, no 
Notre Dame boxer takes a beating. 
Each does, however, work very hard 
for five or six weeks in order to partic­
ipate in something which was very fine 
59 years ago and is just as good today: 
the opportunity to engage in a contest 
of skill, courage, strength and, en­
durance against a similarly skilled op­
ponent in a safe, unforgettably exciting 
situation in order to raise money which 
saves the lives of his fellow human 
beings. 
Sean McCormick 
N.D. Boxing Coach Feb. 27, 1989 

Happy birthday to Common Sense 
Dear Editor: 
Common Sense, the "other" campus 
newspaper, Professor Buttigieg in­
forms us,(The Observer, Feb. 24), now 
celebrates its second birthday. Happy 
birthday Common Sense. 
May one inquire as to what Common 
Sense and its staff will aspire when they 
grow up? 
James J. Carberry Professor of chemical engineering Feb. 24, 1989 
Student appreciates get-well wishes 
Dear Editor: 
To all those who have offered masses 
and prayers for my recovery ... 
To all my dear friends who faithfully 
visited me in the hospital and literally 
filled my room with flowers, balloons, 
and get-well messages ... 
To the faculty who have guided and 
supported me .. . 
To all of you ... a sincere thank you. 
Your warmth and concern are the spirit 
of St. Mary.'s and Notre Dame. 
Ursula Garzia Holy Cross Hall March 14, 1989 


Doonesbury Garry Trudeau Quote of the Day 

'Great occaisions do not make heroes or cowards; they simply unveil them to the eyes of men.' 
-Bishop Westcott 

-Ih--e--Obse-----~~r------Editorial Board Operations Board
----a.~•=-.... 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 Editor-in-Chief .................................... Chris Donnelly Business Manager . . . . . . . . . ............... Rich Iannelli Managing Editor .................................. Regis Coccia Advertising Manager.. . .......... Molly Killen Exec. News Editor ...................... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Design Manager ... ..... Shannon Roach Viewpoint Editor .................................... Dave Bruner Production Manager. . ........... Alison Cocks 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Sports Editor ....................................... Theresa Kelly Systems Manager . ........ .. . ....... Mark Derwent 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of 
Accent Editor ........................................... John Blasi OTS Director .................................. Angela Bellanca 
the administration of. either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Photo Editor ............................................. Eric Bailey
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying 
Founded November 3,1966
opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
-----------~~--~---------------------------------------­
Accent 

Wednesday, March 15, 1989 
Ireland reviewed, Irish previewed 
ND students spend educational week in Northern Ireland Seminar 
STEVE MEGARGEE accent writer 
E 
ver since arriving at Notre Dame, Sorin Hall rector and Northern Ireland resident Joe McKenna has received questions about the turmoil in his home country. 
"People in general were writing papers on the topic, and students of Irish descent were interested as well," said McKenna. "I guess I was con­vinced there was an interest in the Northern Ireland issue." 
"I just felt like I should learn more about what's going on in Northern Ireland." 
The numerous requests resulted in last week's Nor­thern Ireland Seminar, where McKenna and Kathy Royer of the Center for Social Con­cerns accompanied 11 Notre Dame students on a first-hand look at the conflict surround­ing that country. 
Most of the students either had spent time in Ireland before or came from Irish backgrounds. "Although I'd been there (in Ireland), I never went up north," said senior Paul Kane, who spent his sophomore year studying in the Saint Mary's College foreign study program in the Republic of Ireland. "Having spent time in Ireland and coming from an Irish heri­tage, I just felt like I should learn more about what's going on in Northern Ireland." 
I 0\D NOT! 
1 WAS JUST SITTING HERE I 
i<YJ BRo~ \T Rl f?i ~OORSELt ~ 
. , 15 
During the trip to Northern Ireland, the group visited priests, peaceworkers, gov­ernment officials and repre­sentatives from each of the nation's three major political parties. 
The session attempted to present an unbiased look at the controversy in Northern Ireland, presenting the perspectives o( the Unionists, who favor continued British rule of Northern Ireland, and the Nationalists, -who want a united Ireland. 
The trip started with stops at the rural areas of Ennis­kellen and Maghera. The group stayed with host families at both these towns. 
"Talking to people who ac­tually lived there and seeing how they felt about it, that's the most valuable thing we could have learned,'' said junior Kelly Ryan. "I had book knowledge about it, but it was good to see the reality of the situation.'' 
The group also visited Bel­fast, a city which holds one­third of the Northern Ireland population. The day in Belfast included a tour of West Bel­fast, a Catholic ghetto which has an 86 percent unemploy­ment rate among people be­tween 18 and 25 years old. 
In the city, the group saw the Peace Wall, which divides the Protestant and Catholic sections of Belfast. The wall, which normally is entirely closed, happened to have one of its doors open that day which allowed people to walk freely from one side of the segregated city to the other. 
"It was really impressive that there was such a divison with the wall there," said senior Cecilia Bryer. "It showed just how great a divi­sion there was between the 
Bill Watterson 

9\JT COOSID(RING M'i L\fES II'\ ~t>..MBLES RI~T !'lOW, m>LDN1 ~OJ A.\ LE~T Th~ 111£ BLAME? 
(~ 
~~ 
-J!_' 1 ~ 
?. ·~83 .. ~ ... ·~al P·P!i5 SyncHale 
~~--~~ :·~:~:~#. +; . ''""'j';;.fh<,·"",.,. *I(,. 
. !, ")t.>*:f ,_ t: 4: -",~ _'; · ~ \. ~f~~-n·•·· "?' '\.<~.~· 

This gravestone In the Republican Plot of Milltown Cemetery honors volunteers who died fighting discrimination against Catholics. The Northern Ireland Seminar group visited the Republican Plot during its visit 
to Belfast last Thursday. 
Catholics and the Protestants. I was just hopeful that some­day they wouldn't have to 
have that wall there." 
The day in Belfast also marked the eighth anniver­sary of the death of Bobby Sands, who died while leading a hunger strike and is treated as a martyr figure by certain Nationalist followers. The stu­dents met Sands' parents and visited his grave. 
The group also met with Tom Hartley, general secre­tary of the Sinn Fein political group, one branch of the Nationalist movement, in West Belfast. 
Other political leaders fea­tured in the seminar included Raymond Ferguson of the Unionist party and John Hume, the head of the Social 
SUB spreads the luck o' the Irish over the nex~ three days with many activities 
JANICE O'LEARY accent writer 

T 
he Student Union Board has planned three days worth of activities and desig­nated this week as Irish Week in celebration for the upcom­ing St. Patrick's Day holiday. 
"Irish Night" at Beacon Bowling kicks off Irish Week at Notre Dame on Wednes­day. The Student Union Board has reserved 40 lanes for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students and is providing transportation. 
Bowling begins at 9 p.m. and buses leave the main circle every 45 minutes start­ing at 8:45p.m. The last bus leaves the bowling alley at 
1:30 a.m. To keep those Irish eyes smilin', Beacon Bowling is providing free shoe rental with the presentation of a stu­dent I.D. 
The "Shamrock Shuffle", a 4K fun run sponsored by SUB, begins on Thursday at 4: 30 
p.m. at the Fieldhouse Mall. Registration is from 3:30 to 4:30p.m. on the day of the event and the cost is $4. 
Democratic Labor Party. Hume, who visited Notre Dame two years ago, is a highly-respected figure who is fighting for a peaceful solu­tion to end the discrimination against Catholics. 
"It was very impressive to meet with someone of his stature and his standing in the Northern Ireland political scene," said sophomore Noreen Bowden. "He showed the moderate Nationalist point of view, and he was very rational. He wanted tac­tics that would unite the people instead of violence, which would just divide them, 
and he accepted the diversity of people." 
Students also visited Stor­mont Castle, where they ques­tioned government figures on 
I 
RISH 
WEEK 
Every participant receives a free "Irish Week" T -shirt. 
The fun continues on Thursday evening at Theodore's with the second annual King and Queen of the Irish contest. Beginning at 7:30p.m., the contest is made up of several events to be judged by a panel of three to five "celebrity judges." Last year's panel included Digger Phelps and Tony Rice. 
There wil1 be one represen­tative from each dorm com­peting for King or Queen. They will be judged on a point system for each event and crowd support tends to play a large part in the deci­sion making. The events will have contestants chugging a mug of root beer, making up an Irish joke, creating an Irish-related limerick, and lastly, dancing an Irish jig issues like politics, economics and education. 
The week also included meetings with organizations that attempted to include both Protestants and Catholics. Students sat in on classes at Lagan College, the first inte­grated secondary school in Northern Ireland, and visited two peace centers that in­cluded both Catholic and Protestant workers. 
".. .it's one of the great tragedies of our time." 
The seminar ended in the Republic of Ireland, where the students visited the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents studying at St. Patrick's College in Meynooth and spent a day in Dublin. 
"The week was an over­whelming experience," said graduate student Vincent Punzo. "So many of the things I'd been reading about for years came alive to me. I was finally not only learning about them, but experiencing them, and it affected me very deeply. 
"I think it's a shame that a lot of people in the United States, especially Catholics, don't fully understand the tragedy of Northern Ireland," Punzo continued. "I wish more people would start to learn about it because it's one of the great tragedies of our time." 
Th~ students who partici­pated in the Northern Ireland Seminar will discuss their experiences at a public meeting Thursday at 6:30 
p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. 


(with Paul Harren on the bagpipes). 

Also included in the judging will be jars to be filled with money at the information desk in LaFortune Student Center. There will be one jar per candidate and pennies should be contributed to en­dorse your candidate. Silver counts against the candidate, so put it in the opponents' jars. The contestant with the most money wins the event. 
All of the money raised in the events goes toward charity. Last year SUB raised over $500. 
Immediately following the contest, Dave Glynn will be playing "rowdy" Irish music that is "reminiscent of an old Irish pub," according to Mike Hough, the SUB Special Events Assisstant. 
Friday, St. Patrick's Day, SUB, in conjunction with Pepsi-Cola, will be sponsoring a "block party" beginning at 7 p.m. on the Fieldhouse Mall. There will be a tent with food, free Pepsi, and dancing with music by Dave Glynn and Tom Dahill. 
Wednesday, March 15, 1989 The Observer page 11 
Lacrosse team loses first two matches of year 
By PETE LaFLEUR Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team couldn't buy a break during their Spring trip last week, losing games to SUNY­Stony Brook and Georgetown to open the season at 0-2. 
Notre Dame came out on top of every statistical category except the scoreboard. The Irish fell to Stony Brook 8-7 in overtime on March 9, thanks in part to a 25-save performance by the Patriots' goalie. Notre Dame then saw a 7-4 fourth quarter le-ad over Georgetown evaporate, leading to a 9-7 loss to the Hoyas March 12 at Hofstra University in Hemstead, NY. 
"In both games, we probably outplayed the other team," said first year coach Kevin Cor­rigan. "But you don't get points for outplaying the other team, but only for scoring goals. We didn't make the plays we had to, either offensively or defen­sively." 
The Irish were led by junior Brian McHugh's four goals and two assists over the two games. Senior tri-captain John Olmstead chipped in four goals over the break while junior Mike Quigley added two goals in the loss to Stony Brook. 
Notre Dame still has a chance to capture the NCAA tournament western bid, which is awarded by committee at the end of the season. The Irish are expected _to challenge Air Force, Ohio State, and Mic­higan State for the bid and will face all three foes this season. Three Irish victories against those teams could impress the judges despite last week's opening setbacks. 
But Corrigan said that the Irish must concentrate on their next game and not so much on the NCAA bid. That next game takes place Saturday against a tough Penn State squad, in what should be a significant test before next Wednesday's clash with Air Force. 
Nonetheless, to prepare for the Nittnay Lions the Irish have to leave the missed opportuni­ties in last week's games be­hind them. 
"We're not tOtally dis­sapointed with what we saw (in the losses)," Corrigan said. "We just discovered that we didn't do what we had to in or­der to win the game." 
In the first game, the Irish overcame a 6-3 Stony Brook lead to surge to a 7-6 edge on McHugh's second goal, as­sisted by senior tri-captain Doug Spencer. But the Patriots rallied in the fourth quarter to tie the game and force the over­time. 
The Irish, despite outshoot­ing the Patriots 34-24 and clear­ing the zone on all five of their attempts, were unable to put the Patriots away. A man-up opportunity in overtime was unsuccessful (the Irish con­verted only three of ten man-up situations) and moments later, with :16 remaining in the over­time, two Irish players were whistled for penalties. 
Playing two  men  up, Stony  
Brook  was  able  to  score  the  
winning  goal  with  only  :07  

remaining. Corrigan ques­tioned the Irish penalties, yet said the team shouldn't have been in such a desperate posi­tion anyway. 
"(The way the game ended) was dissapointing for us, but it was certainly not the officials' fault," he said. "We had a chance to win it. When you put yourself in a position where one play can make a difference, that's your fault." 
Days later Notre Dame raced out to a 5-0 second quar­ter lead over Georgetown. The Irish then clung to 7-4 fourth quarter advantage before the Hoyas exploded for five goals on the way to their 9-7 win. 
"We were up 5-0 and 7-4 but lost our confidence defensively and didn't take adavantage of our opportunities offensively,'' Corrigan said. 
McHugh led the Irish against the Hoyas with two goals and two assists while junior goalie Jeff Glazier added 16 saves to the 11 he recorded against Stony Brook. 
The Irish again had great success in clearing situations, converting on 22 of 27 attempts, but they scored only seven goals on 32 shots. The team also 
-

came up empty on four man-up opportunities while the Hoyas converted on four of seven . 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classilieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classilieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline lor next-day classilieds is 
3 p.m. All classilieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The 
charge is 10 cents per live characters per day. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  LOST: Piece of maroon luggage with gray piping (Leisure) carryon bag. Lost Sunday AM at Campusvlew Apts. parking lot. Call 272-9903. LOST at Lyons-Dillon Formal. Grey Tweed Men's Jacket. Call Christina 239­7424.  HEY ! NEED ONE EXTRA GRADUA­TION TICKET II WILL PAY, CALL PAUL AT X-1414 PERSONALS  Navels' fuzzy, hairy, sunkist. Strobe ad­diction in a big way. I may be stupid but at least I'm tan. No more carbos or K9's, CR. AI least they're teaching you something in college. That's what living is to me-SZ BLUES TONIGHT  Annette, When can we start raising the babies in our K-Mart penthouse? And who gets to be MOM? Love ya' Joe  ND SWEATSHIRT--I'M THE REDHEAD, THE BLONDE LIVES IN DAYTONA! SORRY, BUT I'LL GIVE YOU HER AD­DRESS, IF YOU CALL ME AT 4948! -­GIRL WITH GLASSES AG AG AG AG AG AG AG AG AG AG Congratulations on being an RAI!  
TyplngNiordprocesslng 237-1949 NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for CASH 11 Hardbound & paperbacks' Cash or Cred1l available! PANDORA'S BOOK 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 233-2342  If you were given a black bow off a black taffeta dress at the Dillon Formal at the Elks Lodge on Feb. 25 it is mine. Please call 284-5085 soon. LOST: On Feb. 9 in Rolf's Aquatic Center, women's locker room, in or around locker 189. White gold pinkie ring with aquamarine stone. Great sentimental value. Please cal Jennifer at 284-5113.  SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND-WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-800-343-8373 hlag  BACK STREET BLUE BAND 10 PM MCCORMICK'S 125 N. MICHIGAN RAIN MAN, Kisses are wet and we British are su­perior. Thanks lor a wonderful week. I love you tons. Portia  11. Ok. I'll take my hand off your boob 12. Oh, but how? 13. Shut up, Margarita. 14. Who is this strange boy and why is he in Julie's bed. 15. Oh my god. I slept in my clothes. Me too' Me tool 16. Oh Sh--.. It's for you? 17. Oh yaya, we're getting picked u in pairs again. 18. Chics don't dig me cuz I can't ski. 20. Are you stoned? You must be No one will see us if weyah undah the covahs.  You will be the greatest, I just know it! HIAG Love yal J.O. Congratulations, Kelt!! Love, Jeff  
Wordprocesslng-Typing 272-8827  SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND-WATER SPORTS  PATTY MICHAUD: HAPPY BIRTHDAY'!! HAVE A GOOD ONE!!!  
IRISH GARDENS IS LOOKING FOR ANYONE INTER­ESTED IN APPLYING FOR THE POSITIONS  FOR RENT HOUSE NEAR CAMPUS AVAILABLE FOR RENT UNTIL AUGUST. 232-3616.  PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-343-8373  HOPING TO ADOPT We're a happily married, financially secure couple with a beautiful home and lots of love to share with much­wanted baby. II you are pregnant and considering placing your baby lor  KARCH KIRALY SUCKS!!! BE A GOOD EGG and help us get home to ST. LOUIS  MARY MAHONEY Please call the Widener fan club !! We need pictures, tum ons, turn oils, and favorite things lor our 1990 swlmsuij calendar !II! ASAP  
OF MANAGER OR ASST. MANAGER FOR 1989-1990 COME BY THE SHOP FOR AN APPLI­ WANTED  ADOPTION-Caring, financially secure couple of Irish and Swedish ancestry wish to love, cherish, and raise your new­born child. Legal and confidential. Please  adoption, please call us. We can help you, and you can help us make our lives complete. Expenses paid. Con­fidential, legal. Call Deborah and  FOR EASTER. Call Pete X2459 or Laura X3948 GINA GRANDOLFO  P.J.  love  
CATION ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENTProfessor T1mothy O'Meara will respond FISHERIES. Earn $600e-<Heek in can­to .. Should Notre Dame Become !he nery, $8,000-12,000e for two months onPrinceton or the Harvard of the Midwest" fishing vessel. Over 8,000 openings. Noon Wednesday, March 15, at 7 p.m. at experi~nce necessary. MALE ORSt. Edward's Hall. Make plans now to be FEMALE For 52-page employment book­there for lhts talk. let, send $6.95 to M&L Research, Box 84008, Seattle, WA 98124. 30 day, un­Photographers needed conditional, 100% money back guarantee Amateur,Prolesslonal lor Australia. National Institute of Exploration CRUISESHIP JOBSJune 20-July 13. Cost $3,300 $300 TO $900 WEEKLYCall Bruce 219-733-2170 CALL LINDA 9-5 WEEKDAYS 1-612­456-0884 EXT. C-4080 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL RIDE NEEDED to Nashville for EasterMRS. COKER, 233-7009. Will share expenses.Call Christina 239­7424''I'll wear no convicts uniform Nor meekly serve my time ATIENTION-HIRING! GovernmentThat England might Jobs-your area. $17,840-$69,485. CallBrand lrelonu's fight 1-602-838-8885, EXT R-8262.BOO years of crime." Need ride lor 2 to ST LOUIS for EasterMa:ch 15th-Thus marks the beginning of Break. Will help pay expenses. Call Pete the gravest and darkest perilld in the # t142.modern history-of a land that has yet the oe free and at peace, of a land whose .NEEo. iiii>ii'ro PtiiLi.:v~ oc:·ofi.Nvhistory has been tarnished by British im­AREAS FOR EASTER. WILL HELPperiism and tyranny-The Irish Hunger WITH DOLLARSStrikes of 1981. You Ten men: Riobardo CALL TASHA X4072 o Seachnasaigh Frances Hughes.Raymond McCreesh,Pat NEED BABYSITIER ON SATURDAYSO'Hara,Joe McDonneii,Martin Hurson, FOR 15 MO. OLD. TRANSPORTATIONKevin Lynch,Kieran Doherty,Thomas PROVIDED. PLEASE CALL 271-8564.McEiwee.Michael Devine: sacrificed your lives in Long Kesh prison for us and for RIDE DESPERATELY NEEDED TO PIT­our country. Your sacrifice shall never be TSBURGH EASTER WEEKEND, WILLforgotten. PAY EXPENSES, HELP WITH DRIVING. THANKSI! LAURA 4948. LOST/FOUND II..____F_O_R_SA_LE--1 LOST-BLACK CUMMERBUND AT TAl­Taste Mom's cooking for Easter. MILITARY FORMAL!! call BRET x1389 Roundtrip airline ticket to Philadelphia for  call Linda and Craig COLLECT: 212-877­3574 SUMMER JOBS TO SAVE ENVIRON­MENT EARN $2500-3500. National campaign positions to pass clean air act, stop toxic pollution, tighten pesticide con­trols & promote comprehensive recy­cling, available In 18 states & D.C. Call Kate at 1-800-622-2202. KISS SOMEONE AT AUGUSTA'S "KISS ME I'M IRISH BASH" MARCH 16, 9PM TO 1AM SMC CLUBHOUSE--21 ID CALL YOUR FRIENDS IN AUGUSTA FOR TICKETS OR # 5341-$4.00 Scap!!! (Use it) SCRUBS!! SCRUBS!!' SCRUBS!! Jade green tops and bottoms! Call Tam­my, 284-5134 •••••SENIORS..... IRISH BAND THURSDAY MARCHI& ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB ST. PATRICK'S CELEBRATION •••••SENIORs••••• •••••sENIORs••••• CLASS MASS SUN. MARCH 19 ZAHM CHAPEL 4PM ••--sENIORS•••••  David collect day or night at 3121935­4088, or call our counselor collect at 312-280-8744. COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: Out­standing brother/sister sports camps on largest lake In New England near "ON GOLDEN POND" site seek stall. ALL TRAVEL PAID. Call Collect: Roblndel (girls) 215-884-3326, Wlnaukee (boys) 203-227-4387 or see us on Thurs., Mar. 30, 10:30 AM-2PM at LaFortune. Ramada Inn of Elkhart has rooms lor Graduation weekend. Minimum stay 2 nights with $100 deposit per room. Send letter to 3011 Belvedere Ad., Elkhart, IN 46514 or Call219-262-1581. TO THE BLONDE (WGLASSES) FROM KNOTI WHO CAME UP TO SAY HI WITH A FRIEND FRIDAY NIGHT AT RAZZLE'S IN DAYTONA BEACH WHERE CAN I FIND YOU?-ND SWEAT­SHIRT TO THE PLS DUDE WHO WORKS AT THE COMPUTING CENTER--THANKS MUCH FOR HELPING ME WITH MY TWO DEFECTIVE DISKS. I'D LIKE TO GET TO KNOW YOU AND SHOW MY APPRECIATION FOR SAVING MY RESUME. RESPOND HERE IF INTER­ESTED. P.S. TAKE A CHANCE!! ISO ISO ISO ISO ISO ISO ISO ISO GEN­ERAL MEETING FOR PEOPLE WHO WILL BE PARTICIPATING IN THE IN­TERNATIONAL FESTIVAL ON APRIL t 5 TONIGHT 7PM ISO LOUNGE ISO ISO ISO ISO I,SO ISO ISO ISO Our little scooter, SCOTI DOWLING, is in desperate need of some personal favors, if you know what I mean. If inter­ested call 289-0943! PLEASE HELP A DESPERATE MAN!  It is lime for this torrid love affair to end. But just remember: NEVER TRUST A EUNUCH Yes, it's back by popular demand! Announcing the resumption of... Z BALLS WEEK II!! So call him at 341 0 and tell him to get off the babysitter. ......................................... Help!!! I need a ride to Pittsburgh (PA Turnpike 6) on 3-29 or 3-30. VERY im­portant!! Will help with gas and toll. Mike 4141 St. Pat's Day mugs! On sale in the dining halls Wed., Thurs., & Fri. 32 oz. green mugs being sold by Knott Hall in the dining halls Mar. 15-17! Only $2.00! ATIENTION STANFORD FRESHMAN: Get your dates now for the Post St. Patrick's Day Party Sat., March 18 from 9p.m.-2a.m., and prepare yourselves for this weekend's bigge!it bash! Laura, Lori, Amy, Aimee, Liz, Jane, & Donie: Even though I knew about my sur prise I still had a great time. I would have put this in verse but I couldn't think of a rhyme. Thanks for a fabulous birthday. Love, Cecil FOR SALE: 2 round trip tics to OR­LANDO. Leave SB 3:45 pm Tues,Mar 21. Return 1:11 pm Man, Mar 27. CHEAP! Call Jen x3688. Are you a graduating FEMALE planning to work in ST. LOUIS? I really need you as a ROOMMATE! Call Brenda at 4271  TOP SPRING BREAK DA VTONA-ISMS FROM THE WOMEN OF P.E. 15. The Hand lives on Mike Y. 14. John who? 13. You have to be black to be true; 12. Booga Booga Booga Ha Ha Hal!! 11. The highest card sleeps with Mike; 10. Heh Baby doll anytime you're ready; 9. 43 Is a dental plan; 8.Sure, you girls will get as dark as 1 am.. .well maybe not you; 7. Do you dye? 6. Is this Billy Joel? 5. Hey look! Steve has whiskey d-! 4. They have NO right to be singing like that; 3. Mike Y. "Heh Steve! You're great In bad; 2. Mary: "My lace Is not looking good."­·Don't worry ij'll fall off 1. Kitty: "I'm drunk again!!" HEH KC I ALIAS SWEENEY SISTER!! Thanks lor putting up with my peeling; I'll save you the skin lor being such a good sport. your pal, Molly To Robin Hood & Max Marion: Don't go too deep into the forest. you might get lost. -Friar Tuck, Little John, and the rest of the Sherwood Forest cast. KeMB: You for me lor Bela Phi lor 1 just love Phi Beta Phi Heh heh heh. SAINT MARY'S SOPHOMORE PAR­ENTS' WEEKEND'S proofs are up in the game room at Haggar College Center. Hurry and check them out. CC, CR, JH, CC: Room 102 in Paradise City. Be good-you will be lonesome. Daquiri-induced delirium. Publixing -bonding-friendlying. I NEED A RIDE TO WASHINGTON D.C.  ·­ 
FOUND:SCARF IN EIGHT FLOOR SEM­ sale. Leave 4-23, return 4-27. Call Sally at 3577.  SKYDIVING season begins Apr 1 II In­terested call DEAN 287-3024  or 239-6580 leave message  OR VIRGINIA (CHARLOTTESVILLE) FOR EASTER BREAK. WILL SHARE  
INAR  ROOM  OF  LIBRARY  ON  HEY IRISH!!  BETSY CIARIMBOLI IS 19 TODAYII  $$$. CALL ROSI AT 3567.  
THURSDAY FEB 23. CALL x1900 TO CLAIM ...........................  ELECTRIC GUITAR Kramer Strlker,blue,3 plckup,whamy ex-c.con,wtase 23Gbst Jim 2017  The St. Edward's Hall Forum will feature Professor and Provost Timothy O'Meara speaking on "Should Notre Dame Be­ COME CELEBRATE ST. PAT'S WEEK AT SENIOR BAR  Call her at 4826 and wish her a happy birthday. Love, Kelley  Break was long, II was no fun without you,  ...  
LOST:CLADDAGH RING from Ireland.  come the Princeton or the Harvard of the  The PARTY TRIP TO POMPANO's Top  So welcome back Aim,  
GREAT sentimental value to me. 11th floor LIBRARY Wed eve.3'1, 11 pm. PLEASE contact Terry at X4010 or drop  NEED A CAR? '82 Subaru, 107K,Decent shape, $925 or reasonable offer. Inquire at 283 3554  Midwest" Wednesday, March 15, at 7 p.m. in the first floor lounge of St. Ed's.  Ten 1 )Those two are still in the car-it looks like they dropped something on the floor 2)Too much salt causes water reten­ Happy 19th Betsy!! Love, Nora  And Scuz too. RabbitPickle,  
in mail to 718 Grace.  tion 3)1t's perfectly normal to sleep till 3  Hazitgun? Thanx so much for spring  
FOUND: BRACELET AT SMC JR FOR­MAL HAD BROKEN CLASP. CALL 283­ TICKETS  PARTY 'IV The BACKSTREET Blues Band this Tues. at Center Street Blues, 100 Center, and McCormick's Coney Is­ PM 4)This tanktop costs HOW MUCH? 5)Bartender I'll have 10 screwdrivers 6)1'm wasted-LET'S CALL MARAYA!  $150 RNDTP PLANE EASTER, KENT # 4639  TIX  SB-NYC  break. Nice bus ride! Hope to see you again real soon! Love, L. Calzone  
2029 (WHILE AGO, HUH.) LOST: VCR TAPES. Monty Python's Holy Grail, The Running Man, Strange  NEEDED TO BUY GRADUATION TICKETS I NEED 4 COMMENCEMENT TICKETS  land on Wednesday. ........................... ADOPT: Happily married, professional  7)He has no neck, but one hell of a chest! 8)There was NOT lip contact! 9)What about those HIP GYRATIONS! 1 0)1 really miss-SHUT UP DINA!  WISCONSIN Club bus sign-ups, TODAY in LaFortune, 9:00 pm. Questions-call Sarah (x3693) or Jim (x401 0)  ADVENTURES IN BABYSITIING AT SMC, CARROLL AUDITORIUM,  
Brew, and others. I! found, please call Mark at 283-1409 or return tapes to Room 912 Flenner Hall. No questions  OR MY MOTHER IS GOING TO KILL ME!! CALL KRIS AT 1915 EVEN IF ALL YOU HAVE IS ONE TO  couple wishes to provide wonderful home, secure future, much love lor white newborn. Legal. Expenses paid.  A big wet sloppy Hi Agl -from your fiance.  OOH. OOH.  TODAY, AT 9 PM. ONLY $1. .................... .. ................... Come see Bambi at SMC, Carroll  
aaked. Reward.  SELL  Call us collect 212-517-2696.  P.S. congrats on getting A.A.!  Aud~orium, 11 pm, today. $1.  

page 12 

-
Tennis 
continued from page 20 

Barton sealed the victory with a 6-4, 6-2 win at number one doubles. 
"We didn't play our best ten­nis against Irvine," com­mented Gelfman. "We let dowm at times, yet we pulled together for a tough win." 
On Saturday an exhausted squad decisively downed Penn­sylvania, 5-l. The victory was decided in the singles, so the doubles did not play. 
"We killed them," said Gelfman, "which is great be­cause we faced girls who had temper tantrums and very dif­ferent styles of play. Kim Pacella played at No. 6 and faced their best player who was slightly injured. The girl served underhand and could slice the ball onto a dime. Even though Kim lost, she played a great match." 
Gelfman sited Pacella as one of the players who had an ex­cellent week. 
"I would say Kim improved 

-· 
Chicago Hair Cutting Co.8 
MARCH PERM SALE 
Sale Oates: March 1st through March 31st 
s 
!1wrsO(!J c!Jflil !fJ!lflrs!lil!l@[jJ rs(!J rJ milfh@(jj)(JJ@@ 
.._ Mishawaka Indian Ridge Plaza (Next to Venture) Grape Rd. 277-7946 
Hours: Daily 9-8 PROFESSIONAL Sat. 9-6 Sun. 11·5 
PERMS·

ZOTOS 
©Copyright~ Cut & Porm 1988 

--. -------~-------­
Wednesday, March 15, 1989
The Observer 

Irish go 1-2 during road trip 
By TIM SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
An intense schedule finally caught up with the Notre Dame men's tennis team during Spring Break as the Irish fell to high-powered, nationally ranked UCLA and USC, while fending off Navy. 
After a string of upsets in the weeks befor,e break, the Irish returned to ·earth when they traveled to California. Top­ranked UCLA dropped Notre Dame 7-2, and the 12th-ranked Trojans handed the Irish a 7-1 loss. 
"The scores didn't indicate how we played," said Notre Dame's top singles player Dave DiLucia. "A lot of the matches were very close, and we played very well." 

DiLucia had Notre Dame's lone singles victory in the UCLA match. In the process, he added to a growing impres­sive list of victories against highly-ranked opponents. 
The freshman defeated the Bruin's Brian Garrow, the fifth-ranked player in the na­tion, 6-7, 6-2, 6-3. 
Forced to drop out of his first singles match against USC be­cause of injury, DiLucia returned two days later with a victory against Navy to up his record to 26-9. 
The Irish won 6-3 over the Midshipmen in that match. 
"I'm starting to play as well as I have played (while at Notre Dame)," said DiLucia. "We've played a lot more matches. We're a lot sharper." 
Junior Walter Dolhare con­tinued his outstanding play at the number two slot, as well. He "had the best day of his career," against USC, accor­ding to Irish coach Bob Bayliss. He captured Notre Dame's lone point in the match with a con­vincing 6-2, 6-0 victory. 
The Irish will return to regional action this week with a pair of matches in Wisconsin. Notre Dame will face Mar­quette this afternoon and the Badgers on Thursday. 

the most with Tyler Musleh a close second," Gelfman said. "Tyler fought very hard in all of her matches. Against Long Beach, she split sets and fought back to win the third 6-3. I was very pleased with her deter­mination." 
Gelfman also praised Tracy Barton and the number one doubles team of Barton and Cahill. The other doubles com­binations, however, may need some more work. 
"I've been really pleased with the way my number one team has been playing," Gelfman explained. "They have been intense and focused. The others are still learning doubles and play spotty at times. As a team we have to make sure we keep up our hun­gar to win." 
Gelfman thinks the week did instill a desire in the Irish players. She hopes the trip to California will result in some clear realizations of what the team and individual players need to do to win . 
• 

The only thing it won't do is put you to bed 
• 

Zenith Data Systems' 286 LP will do just about everything. 
Word processing, desktop publishing and all your future 
business software that runs on the industry standard: DOS 
For more information contact: 
Office of University Computing
Free mouse and up to $100 off with 
Notre Dame Computing Store 
any 286 LP computer purchase! 
Room 25 Computer I Math Building 239-7477
Model 20 Model 40 
w /20Mb hard drive wI 40Mb hard drive 3.5" floppy 3.5"floppy 
w /ZMM-149 Amber or White Phosphor monitor $ 2108 $2552 $ 1997 $2441 

data 
w /ZCM-1390 RGB Analog Color ll~onitor $2330 $2774 
systems 
$2219 $2663 
THE Ol!/.~r•· rc:~cS It! OEJ'Ont:: TilE Ni\ME GOES ON' 
w /ZCM-1490 FfM color monitor $2441 $2885 
MS.IXlS le 1 naLatm:d lr•drm.uk ol MkTo.uk Corp. SJ"f'Ci"'l prk!.,& .-.~!;· ~o.·..:J unly on pun:h.un thruugh Zuilh Con.t.act(J) hJtt'd
$2386 $2830 .1bovf' by •udrnll, fuuky 1nd JUif for tht-lr uwn u~. Nu olhrr dlsa..~ni• .:.pr·?'· l.lmlt unr pc-nron.al cumputrt uwJ on.t monitor per lndlvldu•lln anyl2·fi\OC\lh period l'ricn tubjrdlo cNnS£ wllhout nalcr. !989, Zenith 0 ..1.. Syttrml. 
Sports Wednesday
Wednesday, March 15, 1989 p~e 13 
Sports Lists 

Scoreboard 
Results for Mar. 1-11 
Men's basketball (21l-8) Notre Dame 67, DePaul 60 Louisville 87, Notre Dame 77 Notre Dame 76, Butler 69 Notre Dame 67, Marquette 63 DePaul 73, Notre Dame 70 
Women's basketball (20-9) Notre Dame 77, Loyola 57 Notre Dame 88, Butler 65 Notre Dame 75, Evansville 66 Notre Dame 75, Loyola 53 
Men's tennis (12-6) UCLA 7, Notre Dame 2 USC 7, Notre Dame 1 Notre Dame 6, Navy 3 
Wrestling (10-3) Notre Dame placed second at the NCAA Western Regionals in Des Moines, Iowa with 
a total of 68.25 points. 
Sports Calendar 
Home games in CAPS 
Wednesday Men's tennis at Marquette 
Thursday Wrestling at NCAA Championships Men's tennis at Wisconsin 
Friday Men's basketball vs. Vanderbi~ at dence, R.I., 9:30 p.m. Wrestling at NCAA Championships 
Saturday Lacrosse at Penn State Tournament Wrestling at NCAA Championships 
Provi­

Women's tennis vs. WESTERN ILLINOIS Baseball vs. North Carolina A&T and Duke at Durham. N.C. 
Sunday Men's basketball at NCAA Tournament (if necessary), noon Lacrosse at Penn State Tournament Baseball vs. St. Bonaventure and Duke at Durham, N.C. 
Monday No sports scheduled 
Tuesday No sports scheduled 
Men's track At the IC4A Championships in Princeton, N.J., Notre Dame finished fourth. 
Swimming 
Men (7-4) Notre Dame 6th at Eastern Intercollegiate Championships 
Fencing Men (21-o) 
Women (18-1) Notre Dame captured the team champion­ships at the Great Lakes Competition in 
Detroit. 

Baseball(8-3) Notre Dame 16, Pittsburgh 9 Rollins 8, Notre Dame 1 Notre Dame 4, Miami 2 Vanderbilt 11, Notre Dame 2 Notre Dame 15, Pennsylvania 8 Notre Dame 9, Columbia 2 
Baseball 
National League 
St. Louis San Diego Atlanta Pittsburgh Cincinnati New York Montreal Los Angeles Houston San Francisco Chicago Philadelphia 
w L 
8 4 7 4 6 4 7 5 7 6 6 6 4 6 4 8 4 8 3 9 2 9 1 10 

American League  
w  L  
Toronlo  9  3  
Cleveland  9  3  
Kansas City  8  3  
New York  8  4  
Oakland  8  5  
Minnesota  7  5  
Seattle  7  5  
Detroit  6  5  
Chicago  8  8  
Milwaukee  7  7  
California  6  7  
Baltimore  5  6  
Texas  4  7  
Boston  3  7  

Pet. 
.667 .636 .600 .583 .538 .500 .400 .333 .333 .250 .182 .091 
Pet. .750 .750 .727 .667 .615 .583 .583 .545 .500 .500 .462 .455 
.364 
.300 

: Aerobic & Water Aerobic Instructor : • Tryouts • 
e Stop by the NVA Office & Complete the following
• •e 
•  1. Application  :  
••  2. File CPR Certification  •  
3. Tryouts March 13th-May 5th  

•• sign up now at NVA office with Sandy •• 
4. Final interview e Any questions call Sandy 239-5965 e 
Lacrosse(0-2) Stony Brook 8, Notre Dame 7 Georgetown 9, Notre Dame 7 
Women's softball(4-4) Notre Dame 8, Kentucky Wesleyan 4 Notre Dame 3, Kentucky Wesleyan 1 Southern indiana 3, Notre Dame 1 
Notre Dame 1, Southern Indiana 0 Bradley 5, Notre Dame 1 indiana State 3, Notre Dame 0 Kentucky Wesleyan 2, Notre Dame 1 Notre Dame 5, Evansville 1 
Women's tennls(7-4) Notre Dame 7, Cal State-Long Beach 2 San Diego State 9, Notre Dame 0 Notre Dame 6, Cal State-Fullerton 2 Notre Dame 5, Cal-Irvine 4 Notre Dame 5, Pennsylvania 1 
Golf Notre Dame finished eighth out of 18 teams 
in the Fripp Island College Invitational South Carolina with a 1,250 total. 
NIT 
First Round 

Wednesday's Games Connecticut (16-12) at N.C. Charlotte (17-11) Mississippi (15-14) at St. John's (15-13) Murray State (19-10) at Penn State (19-11) St. Peters (22-8) at Villanova (16-15) Akron (21-7) at Ohio State (17-14) New Orleans (19-10) at Wisconsin (17-11) 
Irish Basketball 
Player  G-S  Mln-Avg  
Heidi Bunek  6-6  181-30  
Karen Robinson  29-28  924-32  
Krissi Davis  29-29  913-31  
Sara Liebscher  29-29  851-29  
Comalita Hays­ 29-4  474-16  
bert  
Diondra Toney  27-20  539-20  
Annie Schwartz  27-16  506-19  
Lisa Kuhns  29-5  441-15  
Margaret  24-6  384-16  
Nowlin  
Deb Fitzgerald  24-0  193-8  
Cathy Emigholz  17-1  156-9  
Jennifer Tranel  2-0  13-7  
Carol Elliott  27-1  221-8  
Maureen  Nel­ 11-0  29-3  
ligan  

in 

·College Basketball 
AP Top Twenty 

The Top Twenty college basketball teams in The 
Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren­
theses. this season's records, total points and pre­
vious week rankings. Points based on 20-19-18-17 
etc. Notre Dame opponents are italicized. 
1. Arizona (46) 27-3 1,219 1 2. Georgetown (13) 26-4 1,155 3 3. Illinois (3) 27-4 1,121 4 4. Oklahoma 28-5 989 2 5. North Carolina 27-7 976 9 6. Missouri 27-7 875 10 7. Syracuse 27-7 B63 5 B. Indiana 25-7 B34 6 9. Duke 24-7 BOB 7 10. Michigan 24-7 666 8 11. Seton Hall 26-6 582 11 
12. Louisville 22-B 51B 16 
13. Stanford 26-6 481 12 14. Iowa 22-9 379 15 15. Nevada-Las Vegas 26-7 338 18 16. Florida State 22-7 328 14 17. West Virginia 25-4 216 13 18. Ball State 28-2 143 19 19. North Carolina State 20-8 115 17 20. Alabama 23-7 101 
Others receiving votes: Arkansas 71, LaSalle 6B, St. Mary's (Calif.) 60, Memphis State 33, Texas-EI Paso 22, Florida 16, Evansville 7, Louisiana State 7, Georgia Tech 6, Oregon State 6, Virginia 5, Arkansas-Little Rock 4, Kansas State 2, Siena 2, Colorado State 1, Idaho 1. Pittsburgh 1, Texas 1. 
College Baseball 
College Basebell Poll 

The top 20 college baseball teams in the ESPNCollegiate Baseball poll, with first-place votes in parentheses, lhis season's records, total points and previous week rankings. Notre Dame opponents 
are italicized. 
1. Texas A&M 
2. Texas 
3. 
Louisiana State 

4. 
Cal-State Long Beach 

5. 
Mississippi State 


6. Miami 
7. 
California 

8. 
Arizona 

9. 
Arizona State 

10. 
Wichita State 

11. 
Oklahoma State 

12. 
South Florida 

13. 
Florida 

14. 
San Jose State 

15. 
Florida State 

16. 
Cal-State Fullerton 

17. 
Southern Cal 

18. 
Arkansas 

19. 
Clemson 

20. 
Houston 

21. 
Fresno State 

22. 
Georgia Tech 

23. 
UNLV 


24. 
Southwestern Louisiana 

25. 
Notre Dame 


21-D 
19-5 
17-2 22-1 8-2 
16-5 
20-4 
20-7 
19-7 
10-1 
8-3 18-4 
17-6 
20-3 
17-6 
14-6 
21-8 
12-2 
12-2 
19-2 
12-9 
12-5 
19-5 
22-4 
8-3 
498 
492 
490 486 485 
481 
478 
476 
472 
468 463 461 456 453 448 443 442 436 431 428 425 421 417 415 
408 
1 
3 
7 6 10 
5 
9 8 4 14 11 13 
2 12 17 16 15 18 19 20 21 22 
Southern Illinois (20-13) at St. Louis (23-9) Temple (18-11) at Richmond (20-9) 
Thursday's Games Kent State (20-10) vs. Michigan State (15-13) Georgia Southern (23-5) at Alabama-Birmingham (18-11) 
FG-A 40-67 145-287 107-180 112-202 93-188  Pet .597 .505 .594 .554 .495  3PT-A 0-0 2-9 0-0 1-4 0-0  Pet .000 .222 .000 .250 .000  FT-A 17-27 72-87 80-106 66-80 16-40  Pet .630 .828 .755 .825 .400  
65-131 70-160 69-178 41-81  .496 .438 .388 .506  0-1 0-1 15-54 0-0  .000 .000 .278 .000  33-46 14-19 10-12 14-26  .717 .737 .833 .538  
33-71 14-31 1-4 7-25 3-12  .465 .452 .250 .280 .250  6-13 0-0 0-0 0-1 0-0  .462 .000 .000 .000 .000  7-14 13-24 2-2 18-25 2-4  .500 .542 1.000 .720 .500  

Notre Dame 29-29 5825-40 800-1617 .495 24-83 .289 364-512 .711 Opponents 29-29 5825-40 727-1773 .410 58-175 .331 367-527 .696 
~==============~ 
---A-=Y=-~
___-Ih--e-Obse..-~ ~~r----­
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Day Chief 
For further information, please contact Matt Gallagher at 239-5303 or 283-1957. 

·······················~======================J 
NBA Standings 
Eastern Conference Atlantic Division 

w  L  Pet.  GB  
New York  41  19  .683  
Philadelphia  33  28  .541  8.5  
Boston  31  30  .508  10.5  
Washington  28  33  .459  13.5  
New Jersey  23  40  .365  19.5  
Charlotte  15  46  .246  26.5  
Central Divi sion  
Cleveland  45  16  .738  
Detroit  43  16  .729  
Milwaukee  40  19  .678  4  
Atlanta  37  24  .607  8  
Chicago  36  24  .600  8.5  
Indiana  17  44  .279  28  
We stern Conference  
Midwest Divi sion  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Utah  38  23  .623  
Houston  34  26  .567  3.5  
Denver  32  30  .516  6.5  
Dallas  31  30  .508  7  
San Antonio  16  45  .262  22  
Miami  9  52  .148  29  
PacHic Division  
L.A. Lakers  43  18  .705  
Phoenix  38  23  .623  5  
Seattle  36  25  .590  7  
Golden State  34  26  .567  8.5  
Portland  30  29  .508  12  
Sacramento  17  45  .274  26.5  
L.A. Clippers  13  49  .210  30.5  

NHL Standings 
WALES CONFERENCE 
Adams Division 

w L T GF y-Montreal 48 17 7 282 x-Boston 31 26 13 248 Buffalo 32 31 7 260 Hartford 31 33 5 255 Quebec 24 40 6 239 
Patrick Division Washington 34 26 10 255 N.Y. Rangers 35 28 8 280 Pittsburgh 35 28 7 308 Philadelphia 32 31 7 268 New Jersey 24 34 12 248 N.Y. Islanders 24 41 5 235 
GA 203 225 275 251 305 
225 261 297 243 286 288 
Pta. 103 75 71 
67 
54 
78 78 77 71 60 53 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Smythe Dvlslon 

w  L  T  GF  GA  Pta  
y-Calgary  46  16  9  311  205  101  
x-Los Angeles  36  28  6  341  300  78  
x-Edmonton  35  29  8  299  275  78  
Vancouver  30  33  7  221  218  67  
Winnipeg  22  36  11  261  314  55  
Norris Div ision  
x-Detro~  31  28  11  278  277  73  
St. Louis  25  33  12  244  256  62  
Minnesota  23  31  15  226  253  61  
Chicago  23  35  12  268  296  58  
Toronto  24  41  6  224  298  54  

x-clinched playoff berth y-clinched division title 
UC Santa Barbara (21-8) al Wichita State (18-10) Arkansas State (20-9) at Nebraska (16-15) Pepperdine (19-12) at New Mexico State (21-10) Santa_Ciara (2D-1 0) at New Mexioo (20-9) Hawa11 (17-12) at California (19-11) 
Friday's Games Boise State (23-6) at Oklahoma State (16-12) 
Through Monday 

Reb Avg Ast St TP Avg 45 7.5 7 7 97 16.2 70 2.4 172 60 364 12.6 176 6.1 49 76 294 10.1 123 4.2 88 56 291 10.0 101 3.5 14 26 202 7.0 
77 2.9 39 21 163 6.0 79 2.9 22 11 154 5.7 51 1.8 29 8 163 5.6 92 3.8 19 9 96 4.0 
33 1.4 7 4 79 3.3 39 2.3 5 10 41 2.4 1 .5 0 0 4 2.0 18 .7 35 15 32 1.2 6 .5 2 0 8 .7 
1017 35.1 488 303 1988 68.6 1004 34.6 427 294 1879 64.8 

--~--------~---­
Wednesday, March 15, 1989
The Observer
page 14 

Swimmers set more records 
Irish set six school marks at Eastern lntercollegiates 
I 
Varsity 
continued from page 20 
partment was that the team would gain varsity status, if not next year, then in 1990. But ac­cording to Kibelstis, members of the women's track club had become increasingly frustrated and impatient with the athletic department's han­dling of their appeal for the past four years. 
It raises to 10 the num­ber of varsity sports open to women at Notre Dame, as com­pared to 13 for men. Half of the women's sports have become varsity at a time when many athletic departments across the nation are cutting back their programs. 
"It has been clear that we 
have been committed to wo­
men's sports by the number of 
varsity sports we've added in 
the last three years alone.," 
said University Vice President 
Father William Beuachamp. 
Assistant Athletic Director 
Missy Conboy noted that the 
athletic department's direction 
in women's athletics is guided 
by interpretations of recent 
rulings on Title IX published by 
the NCAA. Most disputes on 
Title IX cases are decided in 
the courts and not by the 
NCAA. 
The Observer I E.G. Bailey 

The Notre Dame men's swim team placed sixth at the Eastern ln­tercollegiates last week. The Irish broke six school records during the meet. 

Mishawaka 
Indian Ridge Plaza 
(Next to Venture) Hours: Daily 9-8 


By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 
One of the goals of the men's swim team at the Eastern In­tercollegiate Championships last week was to break as many university records as possible, and the team accomplished this in grand fashion. 
The Irish placed sixth in a 

1 
field of 12 teams while smash­ing six university records, bringing their total to 17 for the season. Eight swimmers were in­volved in resetting the records, including Chris Petrillo, Bill Jackoboice and Jim Byrne, who each had a hand in setting four records. Each class level had someone who broke a record, which is a positive sign for the team, according to Coach Tim Welsh. "It was a nice balance from a team point of view," he said. "Also, five of the records were in relay races, which is a sign that the team is moving in the right direction." Welsh evaluated the perfor­mance of the team as a whole 
If you've ever dreamed of beiiit; behind the controls of an airplane, this is your chance to find out what it's really like. 
AMarine Corps pilm is coming to campus who can take you up for trial flights. 
as fair. The Irish finished in the middle of the field as expected, but Welsh thinks that the swim­mers could have done better. 
"Although we swam fast in the stroke events, we were not fast enough in the middle distance races and all of the freestyle races, with the exception of the 50-yard free," he noted. 
West Virginia won the title, followed by Villanova and St. Bonaventure, two teams that the Notre Dame faced earlier in the year. Duke and Cleveland State, another Irish opponent from the past season, place fourth and fifth, respec­tively. 
This was the last meet for the 1988-89 Irish team, and five seniors swam for the last time. Welsh summed up the past season by describing it as "un­comfortably successful.'' 
Welsh mentioned that the team swam faster from one meet to the next, including the championship meets that closed out the year. He also said that the team remained 
If you're cut out for it, we'll give you free civilian flight training, maybe even $100 a month cash while you're in school. And someday you could be flying a Harrier, Cobra or F/A-18. 
Get a taste of what life is like 
aggressive and competitive throughout the season. 
However, Welsh pointed out that the stability of the team was affected by the temporary closing of Rolf's Aquatic Cen­ter at the beginning of the year, and also by an academic calen­dar that gave the team a month-long break in between the fall and spring semesters. 
" 

The team also experienced emotional highs and lows. The lowest point in the season was the death of Pat McManus, who had been the captain of the team last year. 
Welsh is already looking for­ward to next year, not only be­cause of the swimmers who will be returning, but also because he is hopeful for a fast incom­ing freshman class. 
"We will have a very strong core of returning members," Welsh said. "They are strong in performance, and also in spirit and morale." 
The men's team wound up this year with a record of 7-4, and respectable finishes in the post-dual meet championships. 

Wednesday, March 15, 1989 The Observer page 15 
Track team finishes season 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO team, which consists of juniors strong Irish showing in the Sports Writer Mike Rogan and Mark Lavery, meet. freshman Brian Peppard and "That (fourth-place) finish 
It was a bittersweet spring senior David Warth, failed to felt good," he said. "We wanted break for Head Coach Joe qualify for the final heat. Of the to score a lot of points, and it's Piane and the men's varsity in­11 squads competing, eight ad­the most points we've scored door track team as Notre Dame vanced to the finals. since I've been here." finished fourth at the IC4A "I ran a dumb leadoff leg and Garrett, who just qualified Championships but failed score got behind early," said Rogan. for the IC4A's at the Alex Wil­at the NCAA Championships. "Since the straightaways were son Invitational at Notre Dame 
Out of the 100-plus teams at short I couldn't pass anyone a week prior, won the 3,000 with the Intercollegiate Association after that." a time of 8: 18. Injured for most of Amateur Atheletes of Warth, the only senior on the of the season, Garrett's perfor­America (IC4A) Champion­squad, had to take the experi­mance surprised a lot of ships at Princeton, N.J. on ence for what it was. people, but not Piane. March 2-3, Notre Dame "It's like Piane said," said finished fourth on the strength Warth, "There's 160 schools "I felt he could win it all victories in three events. with Division I programs in in­along," said the 14th-year coa­
"A fourth-place finish at the door track and only 11 schools ch. "He just needed the initial IC4A's is the best performance made it to the NCAA's in this qualifying time at the Alex Wil­we've had in the last couple of event. That's an accomplish­son, and he got it." decades," said Piane. ment in itself." 
Senior co-captain Ron At the IC4A's, the ac­Freshman Raghib "Rocket" Markezich in the 5,000-meter complishments translated into Ismail, who qualified for the run, senior Dan Garrett in the points for the Irish. Ron IC4A's every time he ran the 3,000-meter run, and freshman Markezich, who achieved All­55 throughout the season, had Raghib Ismail in the 55-meter America honors in cross his last chance to qualify for dash scored 30 of 34 team points country in the fall, won the the NCAA's. His 6.34-second for the Irish. 5,000 in 14:11. This run was 13 time was good enough to win 
Sophomore Ryan Cahill seconds better than his perfor­the IC4A's, but not enough to finished fifth in the 3,000 to mance at the Central Col­get him to nationals. place for the Irish, and Notre legiates on Feb. 10-11. Dame received two sixth-place "I felt really good and the run "He (Ismail) performed scores from the distance med­felt really smooth," said well," said Piane. "He ran a ley relay squad and junior Tom Markezich, who is now training 6.34, but Princeton's track is O'Rourke in the 5,000. for the outdoor season. "I just not quite like ours. The compe­
The following weekend, stayed behind a guy from tition was good, and it was a Notre Dame's two-mile relay Princeton and outkicked him in very close race." squad did not fare as well in the last 400 meters." Ismail had run the 55 in as the NCAA Championships at well as 6.26 seconds. The NCAA the Hoosier Dome, The relay Markezich was proud of the qualifying time is 6.23 seconds . 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's Bookstore Basketball registration and signups are tonight in Room 002 in the basement of LaFor­tune from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. There is a $5 registration fee. Referees are needed and will be paid $5 per game. Scorekeepers are also needed. Any questions should be directed to Nancy at x3487 or Julie at x2667. -The Observer 
The Rugby Club will open its season at noon Saturday, March 18, against Santa Clara at Stepan Field. Anyone interested in playing should report to practice today through Thursday at 4:15p.m. at Stepan Field. Call Jim at x1776 for more information. -The Observer 
The Squash Club will sponsor the Insilco tournament Monday through Wednesday, March 20-22, in the Joyce ACC. A $5 entry fee includes t-shirt. Registration ends Friday, March 17 in the NVA office. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Pom Pon Squadwill have a short organizational meeting for those interested in trying out for the team tonight at 9:30p.m. in the Notre Dame Room on the second floor of LaFortune. Call Julie at x4231 for more information. -The Observer 
A scuba diving class will be offered by NVA on Sunday afternoons from 3:30 to 7 p.m. beginning March 
19. More information and pre-registration will be at 6:30 
p.m. Thursday at room 218 of the Rock. -The Observer 
A racquetball tourneywill be held on St. Patrick's Day, Friday, March 17. Two men's and one women's divi­sion will be held. Register before Wednesday, March 15, at 5 p.m. The entry fee is $6. -f3The Observer 
Watch out ND. Megan Hanley is 21 !! 

march 17, 18, 19 8e9i11.1 friday, march 17 at 6:oo pm frtJphie.f /tJr 1.ff, 211d at1d :;rd !face f-fhirf.f /tJr a/1 e11trat1f.f me11·.1 lldvat1ced A /t1fertnediafe WtJtnet1·.f Ope11 
I 
HOflffiiL/fY Cltlf£~ 0/ltl 111 fiLL f/m£) 
€:11tu ot (IVA by mor'h 15 
St. Patrick s Day
./s COMI G 
IRISH NIGHT ~ AT THE ALLEY! 
" 
e,6tt;i *entire Beacon Bowl alley rented for N.D. o~e students from 9:00-1:30 am ~ ~e *discount with student I.D. ~ *round trip buses leave from main circle ~ ·every 45 minutes startin at 8:45 
SHAMROCK SHUFFLE! 
*4K run for students, faculty & staff, starts at 4:30 from the Fieldhouse Mall 
on Thursday registration at 4:00 t-shirts for all participants 
[]={]fiD[p)[p)W 

~~lfU[ftlc9lfiDW~ ~[}1) [R£i]®@j y y 
Love, Muf, Dish, Steena, Shmol, Gina x2, Buzer, Ug and Gi. 
I KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCAnONAL aNTER LTD. 
~r.{j~ 
...5/oJilr/ttfoM 
~l?t? 
NCLEX-RN

KAPLAN OFFERS YOU 
CGFNS 

CONTINUOUS NCLEX REVIEW 
Ucensure 
Preparation

RIGHT HERE IN SOUTH BEND! OURS IS NOT A WEEK-END CRAM COURSE. YOU CAN THOROUGHLY PREPARE TO DO YOUR BEST. DON'T TAKE A CHANCE ON YOUR FUTURE. CALL FOR MORE INFORMATION OR STOP BY FOR A FREE LESSON. 
**** 

KAPLAN TEST PREP CENTER 
1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 
219/272-4135 
page 16 NCAA TOURNAMENT Wednesday, March 15, 1989 
Newell is not about to give in 
Arkansas-Little Rock faces Louisville in first-round clash 
Associated Press 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. --Mike Newell says that if his Arkansas-Little Rock basket­ball team played Louisville 10 games, the Cardinals probably would win seven. 
"But that gives us a 30 per­cent chance," Newell said. "That's all we need." 
UALR, 23-7, plays Louisville, 22-8, in the first round of the NCAA tournament on Thursday in Indianapolis. 
"Some people were de­pressed by the draw. We knew they weren't going to place us with a Robert Morris," Newell said, referring to the winner of the Northeastern Conference crown that got an automatic NCAA bid. "We knew we'd have to face a quality team." 

But, he added, "I ain't going there to lose." 
UALR earned its second NCAA bid in four years by beating Centenary in the finals of the Trans America Athletic Conference tournament. In 1986, UALR upset Notre Dame in the first round and then lost to North Carolina State in double overtime. 
"Even though Notre Dame was ranked higher when we beat them than Louisville is now, I feel this will be a tougher game for us," Newell said. "Louisville may be out of the Top 10 now, but at the begin­ning of the season, (the Cards) were No. 1 in a lot of polls." 
"Louisville is a great team with a great tradition," UALR guard James Scott said. "But, if we play well, we can beat 
GMU rebounds from 5-8 start 
Associated Press 

FAIRFAX, Va. --Halfway through the basketball season, George Mason was 5-8 and struggling. Playing under their third coach in three years, the Patriots were having difficulty adjusting to yet another system and weren't happy about doing 
r 
it. 
"We were still upset that co­ach (Rick) Barnes left so sud­denly, and I think those feelings carried over into this season," said Kevin McNamara, who played under Joe Harrington as a freshman and Barnes as a sophomore. 
Harrington left for Long Beach State in 1987 and Barnes last April jumped at the chance to lead Providence. So George Mason brought in 42-year-old Ernie Nestor, a soft-spoken, be­spectacled fellow who had never been a head coach at the college level. 
"When I first met coach Nes­tor, I said to myself, 'This guy's a basketball coach?' " McNamara said. 
Despite the Patriots' horrid start, Nestor never lost faith. His patience was finally rewarded, as the Patriots closed the season by winning 14 of their final 15 games, in­cluding the school's first-ever Colonial Athletic Association title, to earn a berth in the NCAA Tournament. 
George Mason begins play Friday night in Tucson, Ariz. against Big Ten champion In­diana. It marks the Patriots' first trip to the tournament since becoming a Division I school 10 years ago. 
"In the beginning of the season I thought we could be pretty good, but we had to sort some things out," Nestor said. "We lost a few close ones early, and that got us down. But as we won a few we gained confi­dence and got some momen­tum. Then we won a few close games and got on a roll." 
The focal point of the George Mason attack is forward Kenny Sanders, whose 19 point, 19 rebound performance in the CAA championship game against Richmond enabled him to become the 56th player in NCAA history to score 2,000 points and grab 1,000 rebounds. To Sanders, the fact that the Patriots finished 20-10 is as much a tribute to their ability to adapt as anything else. 
"Three coaches in three years shows we can adjust to different philosophies,'' Sanders said. "We knew, even after our bad start, that it was just a matter of jelling as a unit." 
Now that they're hot, the Patriots have no intention of rolling over for the Hoosiers, the second-seed in West 
Early Bird Special 
6:45-7:30a.m. Mon. S Wed. 
Concert Band 
SPRING CONCERT
Class Begin March 13! 
Wednesday, March 15, 1989
Come dressed to class 
8:00p.m.
Classes conducted at the JACC 
Joyce Athletic & Convocation
fee $5 half semester 
Center University of Notre Dame 
FREE ADMISSION PUBLIC INVITED 
10 
TANNING SESSIONS
$25 

eous Only 
Name: Samantha "Sam" Delaney 

Occupation: Sales On Her New Look .. To .1<9' that my hair was limp and lifeless is putting it nicely Let's face it-it didn't do a thing for me. I desperately wanted a new look, but didn't want to pay afor­tune. Then I discovered Fiesta and realized that I didn't have to. Whoever said looks don't get you anywhere­
LIED! 

Regional and a 15-point favor­ite. 
"I think we have a good chance," Sanders said. "We're looking forward to playing In­diana and advancing our pro­gram. They're heatable --it was proven last year by Rich­mond." 
The Hoosiers' hope of defend­ing their 1987 title was dashed when Richmond registered a stunning upset. 

them. In the NCAA tourna­ment, any team can beat any other team. That's what the tournament is all about. We know what it's like to play against the best." 
UALR lost to Illinois, Indiana and Oklahoma --all Top 10 teams --this year. 
Louisville is seeded fourth in the Midwest Regional at In­dianapolis; UALR is 13th. 
"I look at the other 13 seeds and I don't see any team in there as talented as they are," Louisville Coach Denny Crum said. "We didn't get any favors." 

The 13th seeds in the other regions are Idaho, Rutgers and Middle Tennessee. 
"They're almost a mirror of Memphis State," Crum said. 

Wednesday, March 15, 1989 NCAA TOURNAMENT page 17 
Ball St., Majerus bring March Madness to Muncie 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS--In a season that has been the best in its history, an appearance in the NCAA tournament by No. 18 Ball State is the ultimate basketball reward to a school with a losing tradition. 
Ball State, the No. 9 seed in the Midwest Regional, carries the nation's best Division I record at 28-2 into a first-round game against No. 8 Pittsburgh Thursday at the Hoosier Dome. 
"It will be a good test for us," Coach Rick Majerus said. "But if we beat Pittsburgh or we don't beat Pittsburgh, that is!l't the barometer by which to judge the season." 
Indeed, it would be difficult to dismiss Ball State's record­setting season on the basis of a single victory or loss. 
The Cardinals own a 15-game winning streak that is both a school record and the nation's longest, their first-ever ranking in The Associated Press Top Twenty and record attendance of 87,065 for home games played in a gymnasium smaller than most Indiana high school gyms. 
Despite their third NCAA tournament this decade, 

Rick Majerus 
playing in a postseason game is still a rare experience for the Cardinals. 
In 1981, Ball State lost 93-90 to Boston College and fell to Memphis State 95-63 in 1986. 
Three years later, Majerus has taken a school with a cumulative 708-718-1 record to dizzying heights. 
"If the season would end today, it would be a sensational season," he said. 
Pittsburgh, making its third consecutive appearance in the NCAA tournament, opened at Lincoln, Neb., last year and Tucson, Ariz., two· years ago. The Panthers lost in the second round both years. 
"We're happy to go anywhere," Coach Paul Evans said of his 17-12 team. "In­dianapolis...gives our fans more of a chance to come, which they didn't get to last year." 
Majerus is equally delighted the Cardinals will be able to travel one hour south on Inter­state 69 from Muncie to In­dianapolis. 
"Probably everyone in the athletic administration would like to play far away to take a trip, but I'm glad to get on the little old bus and go right on down the road," he said. 
Unlike his players, Majerus is a veteran of 12 NCAA tour­naments as an assistant coach at Marquette from 1971-83, in­cluding a national champion­
ship under AI McGuire in 1977.
ATTENTION FOREIGN 
Ball State's road to In­dianapolis wasn't decided until, 
GRADUATE STUDENTS 
PART-TIME CONSULTANTS 
FOR INTERNATIONAL FIRMS Large Multinational client companies 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from 
ll ~~~~:·;~-~~E:~:~s.·~:~~:::·~~~~·~::·~P IIcurrently seek qualified individuals with 
9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314
and w1sh her a happy one. By the way 
Laura,we do expect to see you dancing
foreign language fluency and area expertise 
on pool tables tomght. LaFortune.
for competitive consulting opportunities in selected European, Asian, African, and Latin American Markets. Foreign students in advanced degree programs welcomed. 
~ 

Experience in scientific, economic, and 
~ 

international relations fields a definite plus. 
I

~.IRISH BLOCK PARTY
Part-time assignments available during sch()()l year including opportunities for J-1 and F-1 
~ 

Visa students. Salaries based upon 
~ 

Iqualifications. All positions are fee paid, no cost to applications. For prompt consideration, 
*under the tent on Fieldhouse Mall 
~ 

please send a resume or letter describing your 
qmflifications with day/evening telephone 
numbers to: *Irish musicians Dave Glenn ~ 
Swenson, Crawford & Paine 
z

Attn: Chris Olson Executive Search Division Tom Dahill will lead the party tunes 
P.O. Box A-3629 Chicago, IL 60690 No Phone Calls Please. All re lies stricti confidential. 
*Come one and all from 6-12 p.m. 
March 14-N.D. LaFortune 6-10 pm 15-N.D. LaFortune 6-10 pm 16-S.M.C. LeMans 5-9 pm 
Don't Forget ... 
• $70.00 per Bid 
THE LITTLE PEOPLE 
• Get measured for Tux GET INTO THE SPIRIT OF ST. PATRICK'S DAY WITH 
• Buy Flowers 
THIS FREE FUN FLICK:
• Arrange Roommates and Dinner 
Seating 

DOORS OPEN AT 8:00 I MOVIE BEGINS AT 8:15 
NO I SMC ID REQUIRED 
a 67-65 victory over Kent State in the MAC championship Sun­day. That was preceded by a 77-76 victory over Eastern Mic­higan in the semifinals Friday. 

Paul Evans 

"Our kids got tested," Majerus said. "You know last 
. year, we were just trying to win some games. This year the games were much closer ...we were expected to win." 
The Cardinals will likely have their hands full against the Panthers, who are used to such tough Big East competi­tion as Georgetown and Syracuse. 
"We are so dependent on our preparation for our success," said Ball State associate coach Dick Hunsaker. "We obviously have to put together the best report we possibly can with a limited amount of time. It's just a matter 'of hustling video tapes and trying to talk to fel­low coaches." 
One place Ball State could not go for information was other Big East schools. The Big East and Mid-American con­ferences both have rules prohibiting members from giving scouting reports on fel­low league members. 
But that could be an advan­tage for Ball State, which has wins over Minnesota, Northwestern and Purdue of the Big Ten Conference. 
"With the national television coverage of the Big East and satellite dishes, it is much easier for us to get tapes of Pitt than it is for Pitt to get tapes of Ball State," Hunsaker said. 
Pittsburgh beat five teams ranked in the AP top 20, includ­ing Georgetown, Syracuse and Oklahoma, but lost at Du­quesne, which finished 13-16, and at home to Boston College, which was 3-13 in the Big East. 

page 18 The Observer 
Keady is staying at Purdue 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.-­Gene Keady, still undecided as he walked into a meeting with athletic director George King on Tuesday, said he looked out a window, scanned the Purdue campus and only then made up his mind to stay as the Boiler­makers' basketball coach. 
He rejected a reported offer of $300,000 a year to coach at Arizona State, which has had three coaches and no winning season since 1982. 
· "Walking into that meeting, I didn't know what I was going to do, to be honest, because it really has been the most diffi­cult decision of my career," said Keady, who has compiled a 193-85 record in nine years at Purdue. "When I took this job, I said it was a chance of a lifetime, and I still feeel that way." 
Keady's announcement came during a teleconference call from Purdue. Keady and his wife, Pat, visited the Arizona State campus at Tempe on Sunday, and he dis­cussed the vacant job with ASU athletic Director Charles Har­ris. 
"Pat and I were very im­pressed (with Arizona State)," Keady said Tuesday. "But going into the meeting ...when I walked in and looked out the window and saw the tradition and knew what the people have 

All-Money team no bargain on field 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK--The most ex­pensive lineup in baseball this season costs $19,494,874 and doesn't even include Jose Can­seco, Kirby Puckett or Wade Boggs. 
The best lineup in baseball, using the 1988 Associated Press major league All-Star team, goes for about $7.5 million less. 
In fFlct, Orel Hershiser of the Los Angeles Dodgers is the only AP All-Star to make the All­Money team. His 1989 salary, including a prorated share of his signing bonus, is $2,766,667, the highest in baseball this season. 
On the All-Money team, Her­shiser would throw to Gary Carter of the New York Mets ($2,160,714). The infield would feature Eddie Murray of the Los Angeles Dodgers at first ($2,244,462), Juan Samuel of the Philadelphia Phillies at second ($1.45 million), Cal Ripken of the Baltimore Orioles at shortstop ($2,466,667) and 
George  Brett of  the Kansas  
City  Royals  at  third  
($1,803,979).  

Samuel played second base last season but Philadelphia is 

Softball 
continued from page 20 
the Irish with a 2-1 win in the 
third contest between the two 
schools, but Linn brought the 
Irish their only win in the tour­
ney, 5-1 over Evansville. 
Offensively, the Irish are led 
by sophomore outfielder Rac­
hael Crossen, who is batting 
.450 with five runs scored while 
hitting in the clean-up spot. 
Megan Fay, also an outfielder, 
is hitting .381, also with five 
runs scored, and first baseman 
Dawn Boulac leads the Irish 
with five RBI's. 

been saying about our program and how supportive they've been, about 11:30 (a.m.) I decided I'm going to coach the Boilermakers next year." 

Gene Keady 

Keady, a native of Kansas, coached at Hutchinson Junior College and Western Kentucky before coming to Purdue in 1980. The Boilermakers com­piled the best league record in the Big Ten over his first eight years as coach but dipped to 15-16 this past season, Purdue's first losing record since 1966. 
He said the Purdue adminis­tration was "very patient and put no pressure on me what­soever" while he pondered the offer from Arizona State. 
"Probably, when we came back Sunday, I was going to go to Arizona State, if I had to make a decision then. But I didn't want to do something I'd be sorry for later. I told Mr. King I would come back here 
planning on moving him to the outfield this year. If he weren't counted, Steve Sax of the New York Yankees would take over at $1,266,667. 
The most expensive outfield in baseball would have Jim Rice of the Boston Red Sox ($2,325,385), Andy VanSlyke of the Pittsburgh Pirates ($2.15 million) and Andre Dawson of the Chicago Cubs ($2.1 mil­lion). 
Salaries were obtained by the 
AH Yes ........ To Be Irish To Be National Champions AND To Be at Notre Dame on 
St. Patrick's Day 
Celebrate with St. Pat ALL Week at the ©[L!JJJ~ ~ 
Wednesday .... Cross the Border (as usual) 
Thursday ........ Irish Tunes w/ John Kennedy Band 
[f'[R10cccccc ST. PATRICKS DAY -Fri Lunch 12-2 -Fri Night 9-2 am 
Sat: cure the Post PAT'S DAY BLUES with Billy 'Stix 'Nicks and the N's and Outs! 1 0 pm 
AP from several player and management sources. For Murray, Brett and Rice, in­come deferred without interest is discounted to reflect present­day value. 
The most expensive lineup has an average batting average of .275 with 20 homers and 79 runs batted in, not in­cluding the pitcher. For $7,578,207less, the AP all-Stars average .309 with 19 homers and 89 RBI. 
and discuss the situation before making a final decision, and I did that." 
Keady said he received a lot of mail from Purdue fans ur­ging him to stay. Now, he said, he feels "a tremendous amount of relief." 
"I feel bad I let this thing get carried on as long as it did, for Arizona State's sake. I don't like that to happen. But that's one school that I really thought I'd erid up coaching at someday if they ever wanted me. Be­cause of the circumstances here and the happiness of our family, we'll stay. So that was tough," he said of the decision. 
Keady said he told Arizona State officials he would remain at Purdue. 
"I didn't want to call him (Harris), but I had to," Keady said. 
On Monday, while still con­sidering the move, Keady said his visit to Temp "was just a quick-hitter. I went out, and I listened some more. They've got some impressive facilities, that's for sure, and I was im­pressed with their support sys­tems, academics, weightlift­

ing, those types of things, .,!;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ 
people that would sell season tickets in blocks, getting stu­dents back out to the games. I think they're starting to under­stand what it takes. 
"And we liked the weather. Who wouldn't? but that's not going to win games for you." 

Wednesday, March 15, 1989 
7 football players earn fifth year of eligibility 
Special to The Observer 
Seven Notre Dame foot­ball players have been granted a fifth year of elegibility by the Faculty Board in Control of Ath­letics. 
Linebacker Ned Bolcar, one of the 1988 tri-captains, leads the players. The Phil­lipsburg, N.J., resident shared time with Mike Stonebreaker and Wes Pritchett during the 1988 Na­tional Championship season. He finished the season with 57 tackles. 
Joining Bolcar on defense will be cornerback D'Juan Francisco. Returning of of­fense for the Irish will be of­fensive tackles Tom Gorman and Mike Brennan, flanker Pat Eilers and quar­terbacks Steve Belles and Pete Graham. The extra year are granted 
Join The Observer 
[J--[f4ppy 21st 
'BI 1(fJ'j{fJ)5'lfY 
SJ{'EJL!JL CCUL% 

Love r.M.om, 'Dad & 
Kaplan LSAT prep­We plead guilty! 
The first, the biggest, the best. We plead guilty on all counts to giving LSAT candidates like you the finest test preparation possible. 
Every year, Stanley H. Kaplan preps more men and women for the LSAT than anyone else. Why? ... It's simple! Our teachers are LSAT specialists who know what it takes to score. Our research staff keeps you on top of the latest test changes. Our home study pack and audio study lab lets you get as much LSAT practice as you need. 
Want proofl Call or visit any of our over 130 nationwide locations. Ask about our free repeat policy and our scholarship programs. You'll find the professionalism your future deserves. Beyond the shadow of a doubt. 
I KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCAnONAL CENTER LTD. 
6/12/89 LSAT Prep Class Starts 3/16/89 
KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 
219/272-4135 
to seniors who missed a playing season due to injur­ies during their first four years. 
Returning players are not guaranteed a scholarship for their fifth years at Notre Dame, and any returnees must qualify for admission into a graduate program at Notre Dame if they have completed their undergrad­uate studies. 
In other football news, As­sistant Coach George Stewart has left the team to take a position with the Pit­tsburgh Steelers as special teams coach. Formerly Notre Dame's defensive end coach, Stewart joins three other Lou Holtz assistants who are now coaching in the NFL: Mike Stock at Cincin­nati, Kurt Schottenheimer at Cleveland and Foge Fazio with Atlanta. 


Wednesday, March 15, 1989 The Observer 
page 19 
..

CAMPUS NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 

9:00 a.m. 20th Anniversary of General Conference of Latin American Bishops at Medellin and lOth Anniversary of the Third General Conference of Latin American Bishops at Puebla. CCE. 
8:00p.m. Notre Dame Concert Band Spring Concert, JACC. 
7:00 p.m. ISO meeting, ISO Lounge, 2nd Floor LaFortune. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT . 
12:15 p.m. Center for Spirituality,1Jiversity at Saint Mary's: "Honoring Other Religions: The Why and How of Dialogue," Terry Martin, Department of Religious Studies, SMC. Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall. 
3:30 p.m. "The Study of Polymer Thin Films and Interfaces Using X-Ray Reflections," Dr. Mark D. Foster, Federal Republic of Germany, Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. 
4:30p.m. Ward-Phillips Lecture: "On Narrative Knowledge and the Mechanism of Victimage: Decoding Bloom's 'Aryan Model,"' by Sylvia Wynter, Stanford University. Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
7:30p.m. "American vs. Japanese Constitutionalism," by Dr. Donais Kommers, Notre Dame Law School. Siegfried Hall Lounge. 
8:00 p.m. "Two Cultures of American Catholicism," by Dr. Eugene Kennedy, Loyola University of Chicago. Hesburgh Auditorium. 
8:00p.m. Philip Agee, former CIA agent and author of "Inside the Company," a controversial and_ rev~latory _book about working for the agency will speak tomght m W ashmgton Hall. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame 
French Bread Pizza Roast Turkey Sauerbraten Veg Rice Casserole 
COMICS 
Bloom County 
Saint Mary's 
Turkey Cutlet Chow Mein Veg Stuffed Peppers Deli Bar 
cYAVo0' tv/N#tJt..J~ I.Mr;£ 
P)Pur ~liEN &r.utl 

~~ AtJOllOtettJMS o,< 
>'v~ t.E.C5 M.o ,k/55
~YRM-!51tJM5. 
~ IJun-¥bo-8~. 
• 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
meagre as anB-=t:-=+:'-i 12 Brad or spad 
28 Beaumont and 
ague's fit": Shak. Scotland 
Fletcher's forte 
42 Hue 54 Seed scars29 Astronaut's18 Day's march 
44 Small sofa 19 Gladden 30 Chou--45 Certain shoe approval 55 Sale sign 
56 Buy selectively 1-:-t-=t:'+-:1 23 Polish's partner 31 Powdered 46 Graceful 58 Silkworm

24 "Ruy --," tobacco 18th-century Hugo play: 1838 32 Guinea fowls dance 59 Eggy drink 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Mike Muldoon 



54 Owns 

..
57 "I find you­you with argument . ": Goldsmith 
so Lake or canal 
61 Indian princess 
62 Hodgepodge 
63 Strike out 

64 "So vast-, so narrow human wit": Pope 
65 Catch one's breath 
DOWN 1 Young horse 2 A wife of Esau 3 Lateral surface 4 Terminus 5 Wig worn in the 18th century 6 CitySEof Warsaw 25 Increase in 37 The nearer one 49lnspired
7 Wings, to Ovid 
loudness: Mus. reverence
38 Common Market 
a Gumshoes 
dir. initials 50 Adult filly 
9 Noah's vessel 26 Grand or Astor 
39 Packing boxes: 
51 Blue dye 

10 Gaze upon 21 "When all at once Abbr. -crowd": 52 School orgs. 
11 "Doas-. 41 "-and
Wordsworth 53 Isle near 
ACROSS 1 Nominative or dative 5 Silver, in Peru 10 Compartments 14 Chief Norse god 15 Swiss mathematician: 18th century 16 Jacob's twin 17 Hepplewhite piece 20 Common article 21 Bulrushes 22 Whist expert: 1672-1769 23 H. H. Munro 24-canto (18th-century singing style) 
25 Furniture piece: 18th century 33 W.W II "riveter" 
34 Din 35 Compass pt. 36Coupd'­37 Valuable woods 39 Hint 40 Stitch 41 Attention getter 42 Skill 43 Sheraton-style 
preferences 47 McMahon and Sullivan 48 Hopper 
products 49 Violin designer 52 Kin of a 
harpsichord 


Buzz Mcflattop 
A) 7/ik£ .fi/U..7i:.l( -4.f,~£.. 
1{£/I~SI .jug.iV!NT!Ai.. 8UILO;~f.r. 
ISTUDENT UNION BOARD 
8)4o ro Til£ IJAf~!{r CK' IIV7i::R!oR. c~;Oo.r<. 
IRISH NIGHT IN THE ALLEY at r83~<it©©rn1 r83©n'M~ 

N.D. has rented the entire place for the night! 
First Bus leaves the Main Circle at 8:45P.M. and every half hour Free Shoes!! You pay for games played 
"~~~~~~~~ 
Sports 
Wednesday, March 15, 1989 
pa e 20 
Women's track club to run with varsity men 
By PETE GEGEN Sports Writer  on sex in intercollegiate ath­letics, involved a lack of oppor­tunity for women to compete  Feb. 23 issue of Scholastic. Kibelstis and Theresa Rice, both members of the club and  Rosenthal indicated that a study of the club's status had already been completed prior  sity women's track team by April 1 was immediately thrown out.  
Members of Notre  Dame's  on a  varsity level in track in  of  the  varsity  cross  country  to the uproar, and that a May  "We cannot create an instant  
women's track club will be al­ light  of  the  existing varsity  team,  authored  an  opinion  meeting was scheduled to eval­ track team," said Rosenthal.  
lowed to participate as mem­bers of the men's varsity track team for the upcoming outdoor season. That is the proposal which Athletic Director Rich­ men's team. "We took upon ourselves to push the issue," said Terry Kibelstis, one of the two seniors representing the club. "We're  piece which stated, "Under Title IX, the university must grant varsity status to wo­men's track. If they fail to do so, we have the right, under  uate the club's status. On the club's chances of making var­sity level, Rosenthal indicated that his main concern has been inten!st and participation in  "What was asked for was an impossibility." But Rosenthal did iron out the details for the club mem­bers to compete on a varsity  
ard Rosenthal outlined to club  very glad we did it. It seems to  currentfederal law, to compete  the club among females on the  level this outdoor season. He  
members at a meeting Tues­day night at the Joyce ACC. That meeting climaxed a fast-moving two-week period in which two senior members of  have been very successful." The result was the proposal from Rosenthal, which in effect makes members of the club varsity athletes. But the action  as members of the men's var­sity track program..." Despite their threat of a law­suit, Kibelstis and Rice never approached Rosenthal with  campus. The Non-Varsity Ath­letics records show that in 1987, the club had 14 members, the exact minimum required by NCAA standards to start a var­ gave Joe Piane, head coach of the track and cross country programs, permission to exceed the men's team's budget for the outdoor season,  
the club threatened to sue the  also  angered  and  frustrated  their concerns prior to publica­ sity  program  in  track.  That  a direct benefit from the foot­ 
•  athletic department for not granting the club varsity stand­ing. The alleged violation of Title IX, a federal law which  many in the athletic depart­ment, which has demonstrated a strong commitment to wo­men's athletics in recent years.  tion of the article, nor did the seniors give the athletic depar­tment an opportunity to discuss the Title IX issue with their  number grew to 18 last year and 26 today. In a March 4 meeting be­tween Rosenthal and the two  ball team's championship season. The feeling in the athletic de­ 
prevents discrimination based  The climax came in in the  lawyers.  seniors, their r~quest for a var- see  VARSITY,  page  12  
NO posts 4-1 mark in trip to California By CHRIS COONEY Notre Dame confidence and Sports Writer momentum during the rest of  ND softball now at 4-4 in first year  
Four wins and only one loss  the season. The week began with  a  7-2  Special to The Observer  
in a week sounds great, doesn't  trouncing of Long Beach. Notre  The  Notre  Dame  women's  
it?  Dame  won  all of the singles  softball  team  opened  it's  in­ 
Not if you are Notre Dame  matches and then  an  altered  agural season with an 8-4 vic­ 
women's tennis coach Michele  doubles  line-up dropped  two  tory over Kentucky Wesleyan  
Gelfman, who views her team's  three-setters. CeCe Cahill sat  over Spring Break. and after  
victories  over  break  with  out of the doubles play, so Katie  playing eight road games in  
•  mixed emotions. The Irish travelled to Califor­ Clark teamed with Tracy Bar­ton at the No.1 position to earn  four days is currently sporting a 4-4 record.  
nia not quite knowing what type  a three. set victory 6-1, 2-6, 7­ Freshman  pitcher  Melissa  
of competition to expect. They  6(9-7).  Linn earned the first Irish vic­ 
returned having defeated Cali­ On Tuesday, the Irish were  tory ever over Kentucky Wes­ 
fornia  State  schools  Long  beaten soundly by San Diego  leyan and has won all four of  
Beach, Fullerton and Irvine, as  State  9-0,  yet  Gelfman  was  Notre  Dame's  games  this  
well as the University of Penn­ pleased with her team's perfor­ season. She is now 4-1, giving  
sylvania. Notre Dame lost its  mance.  up nine runs in 26 2-3 innings  
only match to 18th-ranked San  "I think it was much closer  for a 2.36 ERA.  
Diego State. The Irish·are now  than  the  score  indicates,"  Because of rainouts, the Irish  
6-4 overall.  Gelfman said. "We were in a  played three games in one day,  
Gelfman,  while  being  lot of the matches and just got  again defeating Kentucky Wes­ 
pleased  with  the  wins,  was  beat by a much better team."  leyan  (3-1)  and  splitting  a  
troubled by the sporadic play  Notre  Dame  next  faced  doubleheader with Southern In­ 
of some of her squad members.  Fullerton and crushed them 6­ diana, dropping the first con­ 
"Some of the girls felt they  2. Gelfman claimed that she  test 3-1 and following with a 1-0  
hadn't played well even when  was disappointed they were not.  win  as  Linn  pitched  a  one­ 
they won," Gelfman observed.  as  strong  as  she  had  an­ hitter.  
"They are working on different  ticipated. In that meet, the only  The Irish then travelled  to  
parts of their games and trying  losses  came  at  number  two  Evansville for the Evansville  
to implement new things into  singles and doubles.  Tournament,  and  fell  twice,  
the matches was hard at times.  On Friday, the Irish had their  losing 5-1 to Bradley and 3-0 to  
Adjusting to playing outdoors  toughest match, a tight 5-4 win  Indiana State on the first day  
was difficult, too."  over Irvine. Notre Dame took  The Observer I File Photo  of play.  
Despite the individual prob­lems, Gelfman saw many of the Irish improve their play and she hopes the victories .will give  four of six of the singles matches and then Cahill and see TENNIS, page 14  Kim Pacella and the Notre Dame women's tennis team won four of five matches at California last week. The Irish improved their sea~on record to 6·4.  On the second day, Kentucky Wesleyan got some revenge on see SOFTBALL, page 18  



r 
Some final thoughts about NO sports scene 
A humor columnist in Atlanta, Lewis Grizzard, once noted that writing a daily column was like marrying a nymphomaniac. Its fun for about three weeks. 
For the past two years in this space every Wed­nesday I've attempted to share with you thoughts about the world of sports, particularly Irish ath­letics. 
Its been a weekly, not daily, column but I realize 
Grizzard's frustrations with coming up with new 
approaches and positions for ...writing. 
But it never has been boring. How could any sports fan be bored writing whatever he wanted for 16 inches of newsprint once a week at the home of one of the nation's premier college athletic pro­grams? 
In my final column, I'd like to share some views on a few sports topics. This column has discussed some, but not all of these topics before. 
First, a thank you to the coaches and athletes who have been so accomodating. And thanks to those at The Observer and the Joyce ACC and my critics in Grace who have been so helpful and sup­portive. 
Next for some thoughts on the Irish sports world. 
It mystifies me that Notre Dame basketball is not more successful that it has been. To their credit, the Irish always field a competitive team which can give anybody a run and pulls off occasional big upsets like the North Carolina game in 1987. 
Brian O'Gara 
Irish Items 

To most basketball programs, that would be enough. But Notre Dame has never settled for just being competitive. Even with high academic stand­ards, Notre Dame can attract the nation's top tal­ents. 
Success in the NCAA Tournament is deceptive-­upsets and bad draws can stifle the best of teams. But aside from a lOth-place ranking in the final polls in 1986, the Irish have not fielded a Top 10 team since 1981. 
This may be the team. They had an impressive season despite their youth. Next year should be an exciting one for Irish basketball. Digger Phelps takes a lot of heat, but he is a good basketball coach and a good representative for Notre Dame and col­lege athletics. What he does by the time this fresh­man class graduates could be his most important test. 
Speaking of hoops, Bookstore Basketball is just around the corner. Of all the events I have covered, , this was the most fun. That's because Bookstore Basketball has become a cornerstone of spring for Notre Dame students. It's a tournament with 600­plus teams of players who shoot jumpers against the wind and snow at Stepan, take pride in simply making the Round of 256 and even more pride in their creative team name. 
A final note on Irish football. I think most seniors 
would agree--the suffering of 1985 and what seemed 
like impossible dreams makes this championship 
even sweeter. Thank you Lou Holtz. This is what 
Irish football was supposed to be like. 
From Irish volleyball to Bookstore to the swim­suit issue to 58 Ways To Remember Oct. 15, it has been a wonderful ride. Thanks for listening. 
Good luck, God bless, and Go Irish. 


