
VOL. XXIII NO. 1 WEDNESDAY , SEPTEMBER 27, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Salvadoran rebel attacks leave 39 dead 
Associated Press 
SAN SAI.VADOB. El Sal­vador-Leftist n~bels attacked government forces in scattered raids in nine provinces Tuesday and military officials said 39 soldiers and guerrillas were killed. 
The rebels have agreed to peace talks and a communique said Tuesday's actions were in response to government re­pression. 
The communique, broadcast on the rebels' clandestine radio station, called the attacks a "Halt the repression!" offensive and said it was ordered be­cause of the arrests of dozens of unionists. 
Military officials said guerril­las attacked targets in nine of El Salvador's 14 provinces. They listed the casualties as 26 guerrillas and 13 soldiers killed and 18 soldiers, 15 guerrillas and 6 civilians wounded. 
It was the broadest rebel of­fensive since May 10 when the guerrillas attacked positions in 10 provinces. And it was the first series of coordinated at­tacks by the guerrillas since government and rebel represen­tatives held preliminary peace talks in Mexico City Sept. 13­15. 
An 11-day cease-fire declared unilaterally by the rebels ended Sunday. 
The rebel communique spoke of the "fascist brutality" of the rightist government of Presi­dent Alfredo Cristiani, referring to accusations by detainees that they were tortured and raped last week at National PolicP headquarters. 
Cristiani's government has denied the allegations of brutality. 


, 
, 1 ~ 
AP Photo


Flag burning 
Leftist students burn an American flag as riot troops stand watch Tuesday evening near the Manila airport during a rally to coincide with the visit to the Philippines of U.S. Vice-President Dan Quayle. 
Shevardnadze calls for cutting of chemical weapons 
Associated Press 
from the White House. Bush plosions. weapons is signed, if the Soviet sophisticated binary weapons. said, "I am very pleased with Secretary of State James Union will reduce its arms to a -Henounce the use of "those 
UNITED NATIONS-Soviet the way things are going. The Baker later praised Shevard­similar level. That would mean barbaric weapons" under any Foreign \1inistPr Eduard She­reaction from the Soviets to nadze's nearly hour-long ad­greater cuts by the Soviet circumstances. vardnadze on Tuesday accepted our proposals yesterday has dress as "a good speech, an in­Union, which has a larger -Institute rigorous verifica­PresidPnt Bush's call for deep been positive so now the goal is teresting speech." He called it stockpile. tion of the cessation of produc­U.S.-Soviet chemical arms cuts to get moving and try to work "very responsive to the Presi­Bush said in the first eight tion. and challenged the United out these agreements." dent's statement" on chemical years of a chemical weapons Shevardnadze praised the States to go further and faster. White House Press Secretary weapons. treaty, the United States would U.S.-Soviet dialogue and said 
Shevardnadze said the Soviet Marlin Fitzwater called She­But Viktor Karpov, the Soviet be ready to destroy 98 percent progress had been made in re­Union will "radically reduce or vardnadze's statements "a very Union's chief arms control ex­of its arsenal if the Soviet cent talks. completely dnstroy" its chemi­constructive response. Our ul­pert, told reporters, "Our pro­Union joins the ban. The United "These talks have demon­cal weapons. halt nuclear tests timate objective is total elimi­posal is a wider one" and does States would destroy all chemi­strated the increasing aware­and stop making weapons­nation of chemical weapons. not want to destroy all cal weapons within 10 years ness by both sides of the need grade plutonium and uranium And it appears that both na­weapons or halt production un­once every nation capable of to cooperate for the benefit of -all if Washington recipro­tions are now ready to act." til all nations capable of pro­building the weapons signs the mankind and the growing con­cates. Shevardnadze also said that ducing them have signed a ban. treaty, he said. fidence that such cooperation is 
Shevardnadze, speaking to if NATO countries agree to "It will not be sufficient only Shevardnadze said: "The So­possible." the U.N. General Assembly, said start talks on tactical nuclear to get rid of old weapons if the viet Union is ready, together Agreement to hold a summit the two governments have nar­weapons, the Soviet Union will United States is going to pro­with the United States, to go meeting next year, he said, rowed their differences and he respond by further unilateral duce new chemical weapons," further and assume mutual "shows that we have moved predicted that by the U .S.-So-. cuts in its tactical nuclear mis­Karpov said. obligations prior to the conclu­quite far ahead in solving a viet summit next spring or siles in Europe. Bush told the General Assem­sion of a multilateral conven­number of major bilateral and summer, "We may have passed He repeated his government's bly on Monday that the United tion." international problems." the last turn on the road" to­call for a nuclear test ban and States will destroy more than The Soviet Union offered to: But he said extraordinary ef­ward a treaty reducing strate­said Moscow was considering 80 percent of its chemical -Cease production of chemi­forts at the highest level will be gic arms by 50 percent. extending a 1963 treaty to weapons, before an interna­cal weapons, as it says it al­needed to conclude an agree­
There was a quick response cover underground nuclear ex-tional treaty banning use of the ready has done, including more ment. 

AP Photo

Handicapped protest 
Demonstrators in wheelchairs try to block the entrance to the Richard B. Russell federal building in Atlanta as security officers try to clear the way. Members of the American Disabled for Accessible Public Transportation demonstrated over disabled access. 
300 prison inmates riot in gang-related fighting 
Associated Press injured, and eight were hospi­
talized, most with stab wounds. 
CHESTER, Ill.-Gang-related One inmate was killed, said fighting broke out among more Lane, who arrived at the scene than 300 prison inmates Tues­shortly after the fight broke day, and guards fired shots to out around noon. break it up, officials said. One Two staff members also suf­inmate was killed and four fered injuries, he said. others were wounded. Eric Freeburg, spokesman 
Altogether, more than 20 for Chester Memorial Hospital, people were injured in the dis­said later that nine inmates turbance at the maximum-se­were brought to the hospital. curity Menard Correctional Four had gunshot wounds, he Center, including two guards, said. prison authorities said. Lane said guards fired as 
The disturbance began in the many as 50 shots in breaking dining hall and spread into the up the disturbance, which in­South Cellhouse and the West volved from 300 to 325 of the Cellhouse of the century-old 700 Menard inmates who were prison, said Illinois Department out of their cells at the time. of Corrections Director Michael Most of the shots were warn­Lane. ing shots fired into the air, 
"The disturbance certainly Lane said. He would not specify was gang-related, and consid­whether guards fired directly at ering the nature of the gangs inmates. But prison spokesman here, it had definite racial over­Nic Howell said the slain inmate tones," Lane said. 
Lake said 21 inmates were see PRISON I page 4 
page 2 The Observer Wednesday, September 27, 1989 
WORLD BRIEFS 

Lack of service at North 
China's Communist Party leader Jiang Zemin took a hard line Tuesday at his first news conference, insisting that those 

Dining Hall is distasteful
arrested in the spring democracy movement were criminals and refusing to rule out more executions.Asked by a reporter if the 

"Tiananmen tragedy" could have been avoided, Jiang said: "We believe it was not a tragedy. Tiananmen was a counterrevolution­ary rebellion opposing the Communist Party leaders and seeking to overthrow the socialist system," he said. Premier Li Peng, who also took part in the news conference, reaffirmed the party's de­termination to end rampant corruption and said new limits on of­ficial perks would be announced in a few days. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
Cancer Researchers have identified precise abnor­malities in an anti-cancer gene linked to lung cancer, raising the possibility of early diagnosis and better treatment for the 150,000 people who get lung cancer each year. During the last several years, researchers have found indirect evidence that defects in at least six genes can contribute to the formation of lung cancer. A new study has pinpointed precise chemical changes that should be useful for identifying people at high risk of getting lung cancer, or for predicting how deadly a particular case of lung cancer will be, said the author of the study's findings, Dr. John Minna of the Na­tional Cancer Institute-Navy Medical Oncology Branch in Bethesda, Md. 
INDIANA BRIEFS 
The Indiana Board of Pharmacy ordered an emergency suspension of a Michigan City pharmacist's license on Tuesday. The board voted 5-0 to suspend Dean Snyder for at least 90 days for alleged drug abuse. The attorney general's office said Snyder worked for Revco Drug Stores in Elkhart and Michigan City until Aug. 23 when drug losses were noticed. A pharmacy inspector also discovered evidence of missing drugs during a routine audit of the Elkhart store, officials said. By that time, Snyder had been fired. 
Community Hospitals Indianapolis will assume the $26 million debt at University Heights Hospital and spend up to $10 million to expand services at its newest branch. University Heights, which will be renamed Community Hospital South, will begin offering obstetrics services, as well as upgraded cardiology and pediatrics care, officials announced Monday. University I I eights had been struggling financially since its current facility opennd in 1984. "We were running an operating loss in six figures and ... we couldn't borrow any more money. We had reached the limit," said the hospital's board chairman, James Munger. 
CAMPUS BRIEFS 
Football parking last Saturday went well, according to Phil Johnson, assistant director of Security. He said that the pattern worked effectively and said many fans arrived early. Although there was some early morning congestion, Johnson said everyone made it to the stadium on time. "The credit goes to the different agencies for their cooperation." University, city, county and state police worked together to keep traffic moving. He said Security will meet to review last weekend's parking and to prepare for fu­ture home football games. 
WEATHER 
-·----~  
[1~::  Sunny Sunny and cool today, high in the 60s. Clear and not as cool tonight, lows around 40. Sunny and warmer Thursday, high around 70.  
ALMANAC  MARKET UPDATE  

On September 28: Closings for Tuesday, Sept. 26, 1989 e In 1066: William the Con­queror invaded England to 
Dow Jones 
Industrial Average

claim the English throne. e In 1850: Flogging was abol­2663.94 
up 4.75

ished as a form of punishment in the U.S. Navy. 
S&P 500 -t 10 to 344.33

e In 1924: Two Army planes landed in Seattle having com­
Currency exchange

pleted the first round-the-world flight, in 175 days. Mark f-.0072 to 1.8918 OM/$ 
e In 1939: Germany and the Yen it .22 to 142.35 ¥/$ Soviet Union agreed on a plan to partition Poland in World 
Precious Metals

War II. e In 1967: Walter Washing­Gold +$6.60 to $368.00 I oz. 
ton took office as the first Silver -f-.85¢ to $5.290 I oz. 
mayor of the District of Columbia. 
Most students on campus eat at least two meals a day. These meals are usually a time to socialize with friends and catch up on the latest gossip, and so should be a good time. But lately, the service, or lack thereof, has been making the meals almost a chore. 
North Dining Hall was rebuilt and re-engi­neered, I thought, with the purpose of reducing the lines that used to extend out the door, and making the dining experience more pleasurable for the students. Since we have been in session this semester, I have yet to experience a truly pleasurable meal. 
The problem, first and foremost, is the state of the salad bar. It is an excellent idea, and if it were filled with its respective fixings, a student could make a meal out of that alone. 
But many times I have had to hunt through the dining rooms to find a tray of lettuce, or green peppers that are not soft to the point of being able to squish them through my teeth. I have waited an hour for a tray of ketchup. Isn't that a little ridiculous? 
I have watched a dining hall worker take in­ventory of the salad bar, take away empty trays, and never come back. Do they get lost in the back somewhere? Do they make the ketchup themselves? 
Those rare times when the fixings are avail­able, they are usually on the borderline of inedi­ble. Call me a picky eater, but I don't know of too many other people who enjoy eating the heart of a head of lettuce, and I do not think the natural color of lettuce is brown. It makes me wonder if any worker looks at what is being thrown into those trays. If they did, I highly doubt that the tray would make it into the din­ing room. It also makes me wonder exactly how long some of those items sit out. Is there a reason for this? 
The salad bar is not the only aspect being ne­glected. Many a night there has been only chocolate milk. No skim. No 2 percent. Only chocolate. I don't think they could have run out of all other types of milk; someone just is not filling them up. Many times there has been only carbonated water in the pop machines. Many 
OF INTEREST 
Toastmasters will now meet at 6:30 
p.m. in Room 220 Hayes-Healy on Wednesday Nights. New members are always welcome. 

The Spanish Club meets tonight at 7 p.m. in the International Student Lounge, second floor. LaFortune. All are welcome. 
Pax Christi will meet tonight in the Center for Social Concerns Chapel at 8 p.m. Plans for this year will be the topic of discussion. 


'It is not right for the students to dislike going to their meals.' 
Coleen Cronin Asst. Accent Editor 
times there is no ice. Is there a reason for this? 

Lines are still rampant in the dining hall as well. Granted, when everyone who has a class that lets out at 12:05 immediately goes to lunch, lines are bound to be long. But what about when the lines form with students just staring at empty food trays behind the glass? I find it hard to believe that no food is cooked in ad­vance. 
The University has spent a lot of money on re­building NOH to better serve the students, and yet the students are suffering. It is not right for the students to dislike going to their meals. From what I have heard from friends at other schools, our food is better than most. It is the service that is causing the dislike. 
Two years ago, in the old NOH, no problems like this occurred, except for the lines. The salad bar was always in fine condition -we never wanted for any condiment of any sort. In fact, one worker had the sole job of tending to the salad bar. It leaves me wishing for the ugly interior and long lines for the sake of better service. 

The students, or their parents, are spending over $1,500 per semester on room and board, and that figure includes meals. We should get our money's worth. 
Is it a matter of being understaffed? Is it a matter of carelessness? Whatever it is, it must be rectified. The University has been running a dining hall for many years now. It should know how to run one correctly. 
English Major's Club will meet tonight at 6 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune. All those interested in joining are welcome to attend. Call Jennifer at 283-2272 for more in­formation. 
The Law School Caravan will be held today from noon to 4 p.m. in the Monogram Room of the JACC. Over 45 Law Schools will be represented. All are invited to attend. 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur­chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Design Editor .................. Chris Labaree Design Assltant ..................... Greg Tice Typi!SIIItllrs ........................ Tim Kiefer .......................................................... Tim Quinn Asst. News EdltorFiorentine Hoelker News Copy Editor ........... John O'Brien Sports Copy Editor ............ Ken Tysiac ......................................................Mary Garino VIewpoint Copy Editor..... Kim Skiles VIewpoint Layout...... Colleen Stepan Accent Editor .......... Paige A. Smoron Accent Copy Editor ...... Barbara Bryn Accent Designer ............. Alison Cocks Typlsts ........................................Will lamer NO Day Editor ..................... Amy Leroux Photographer .................... Tom Hassett Ads DeslgnarVal Poletto, Amy Eckert ........ Meg Callahan, Kathleen O'Connor 

The world is waiting.
Be an exchange student. 
Step into an adventure filled with opportunities and challenges. As part of International Youth Exchange, a Presidential Initiative for peace, you live abroad with your new host family. Learn new skills. Go to new schools. Make new friends. ~ .. 
Young people from all segments of American society are., being selected. If you'd like to be one of them, write for more . --·. · 
• 1

information on programs, costs and financial aid. Help bring the world together, one friendship at a time. ···... . .. 
Write: YOUTII EXCIIANGE Pueblo. Colorado 81009 

~~ A message from The Advertising Council and The International \huth Exchange. 
"'" 

lnlormatton compiled from Observer wrres and Observer staff reports 

Wednesday, September 27, 1989 The Observer page 3 
Reagan, Bush to be U.S. invites Soviets to inspect SOl 
Associated Press 

The Soviets have resisted such rate agreement on space-based
issued subpoenas 

exchanges in the past. defenses. WASHINGTON-The chief "It has been our agenda from U.S. refusal to end its re­
Associated Press 

as vice president has been dis­U.S. negotiator to the super­the beginning to get the Soviets search into a Star Wars missile covered. power Defense and Space Talks to talk to us in a direct way defense made an arms reduc­
WASHINGTON-John Poindexter's lawyers also say in Geneva said Tuesday he about our research activities tion accord improbable. Poindexter will subpoena he regularly briefed Bush on hopes the Soviets will accept a and our testing activities and Over the weekend in Ronald Reagan and President aspects of the Iran-Contra af­U.S. invitation to visit two Star their research activities and Wyoming, however, the Soviets Bush in an attempt to obtain fair following meetings which Wars research sites. testing activities," Cooper said. said they would no longer insist their diaries and notes, the the vice president missed. "I would be hopeful ... that "We are hopeful the Soviets that curbs on Star Wars be in former national security ad­Poindexter said he intends to we could work out the ar­will accept this invitation...it place before a Strategic Arms viser said in court papers re­serve "subpoenas on the rangements in the coming was made without conditions. Reduction Treaty could be leased Tuesday. former president and former round so that the trip could We hope it will provide a basis reached. The START talks are 
Facing a criminal trial next vice president personally." take place in the coming then for discussions in Geneva also going on in Geneva, paral­year in the Iran-Contra scan­Poindexter asked that U.S. months," Ambassador Henry that will lead them to accept an lel to the space and defense dal, Poindexter said he needs District Court Judge Harold Cooper told reporters at a Pen­exchange in the future of such talks. the records for his defense. Greene to set a pre-trial return tagon briefing. visits," he said. 
"Former President Reagan date for subpoenas of presiden­The negotiator discussed the The invitation is intended to At the Wyoming session, the believes that his diaries and tial and vice presidential invitation extended by Secre­promote openness between the U.S. side invited a group of So­notes are 'personal' records," records and personal records tary of State James Baker in two nations by allowing the So­viet experts to visit the Los Poindexter said in the papers of Reagan and Bush. his talks over the weekend with viets to learn more about U.S. Alamos, N.M., National Labo­filed late Monday and made Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard research being conducted into ratory and the TRW Corp.'s test available Tuesday. The former national security Shevardnadze in Wyoming. the space-based anti-missile de­facility in San Juan Capistrano, 
"President Reagan's adviser is charged with one Cooper said he intends to fense called the Strategic De­Calif. 'personal' diaries and notes count of conspiracy, two counts press ahead with the offer in fense Initiative, more commonly remain in the former presi­of obstructing Congress and the new round of Geneva talks, known as Star Wars. Cooper said the Soviets would dent's possession and were hot two counts of making false which begin Friday. The U.S.-Soviet talks in be able to observe at Los transferred to the National statements in the Iran-Contra Cooper said that Shevard­Geneva on slashing long-range Alamos the first particle beam Archives" when he left the affair. nadze had reacted positively to nuclear weapons have be!)n device that was flown in space White House, the court papers The Presidential Records Act Baker's invitation, but that he deadlocked over the Soviet d{l­earlier this year and observe at said. says diaries, journals or other could not characterize the So­mand that a treaty be contin­the TRW facility the space­
Poindexter's lawyers said in personal notes of the president viet reaction as an acceptance. gent on completion of a sepa-based laser project. court Sept. 6 that Reagan's which aren't prepared in the notes will rellect that he autho­course of transacting govern­rized some activities for which ment business don't have to be 
SMC lecture discusses campus 'cultures' 
the national security adviser turned over to the National was indicted in the Iran-Contra Archives. By CHRISTINE GILL two worlds are like two mag­that dormitory lectures and in­scandal. The re.cords act was enacted Saint Mary's Editor nets turned to repel, not attract dependent study programs are 
Poindexter said vice presiden­in the aftermath of the Water­each other," Horowitz said. only two ways in which students 
tial records at the national gate scandal and lawsuits over Cultural environments found "Education has been reduced to and teachers can interact to archives have yet to be pro­ownership of the White House on college campuses were the a quest for grades," with develop a sense of community. cessed and that to date no per­tape-recordings during the topic of a lecture given by Helen aspiring youth fearful of down­"How the students judge
sonal diary from Bush's tPnure presidency of Richard Nixon. Horowitz, professor of history ward mobility, she said. themselves depends on grades," at Smith College, at Saint Speaking to the audience of Horowitz said, and that the LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOl STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. Mary's on Tuesday. and in
staff faculty Carroll faculty should help them see Horowitz focused on the two Hall, Horowitz urged the edu­beyond the grades to developing
different cultures that exist on cators to help students inte­a sense of themselves as in­campuses today: the academic grate their two worlds. She be­dividuals. Given the parental,and social, and the lack of in­lieves that teaching should not peer and societal pressure stu­teraction between the two. "The be limited to the classroom and dents face, Horowitz feels that 
the  overall  intellectual  envi­ 
ronment of the campus.  
Aside  from  her work  as  a  



Meeting for ALL photographers 7 p.m. Wednesday, September 27 in the Sarin Room, LaFortune 


judge Advocate Program 
• 
Immediate trial practice • Three,year student loan deferment. 

• 
Excellent starting salary, 

full medical & dental benefits • Immediate commission upon completion of lO,week

• 
Law school time counted 


Officer Candidates School 
for promotion 
• 
Naval Justice School guaranteed 

• 
30 days annual paid vacation 


For more information about the Marine Corpe Judge Advocate program.., 
caD the Marine Corpo Officer Selection Team at Hl00-728-9228. 
m.relookingforafewgoodmen. 
many young people only view college as a "conveyer belt" to carry them on to other things in life. 
A curriculum which strives to shape the community and social life is a beginning to "rebuilding the intellectual ex­change" between faculty and students, said Horowitz. 
The lecture was the keynote address of the Faculty Devel­opment Project that Saint Mary's has instituted this year as an ongoing examination of 
history professor, Horowitz has also served as a consultant to several colleges and universi­ties. 

L_______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ -­

page 4 The Observer Wednesday, September 27, 1989 
Hurricane Hugo damage by state 
Associated Press 
Here is a state-by-state look at the damage and deaths caused by Hurricane Hugo and its remnants: 
SOUTH CAHOLINA-At least 17 deaths reported, with damage in Charleston estimatt~d at $1 billion or more. About 75,000 people in tho area were still out of their homes. A dust-to-dawn curfew remained in effect. Charleston Harbor reopened to limited ship traffic Tues­day. Power was restored to about 20 percent of cus· tomers. 
Columbia: Trees and power lines down. 25,000 people remained without electricity Tuesday. 
Isle of Palms and Sullivan's Island: Residents continued to return home Tuesday by boat, but under police escort and only to look at their homes and collect a few be­longings beforo returning to mainland. Downed power lines and trees and leaking propane gas create a dan· gerous situation. The only bridge to the mainland was washed out. 
Garden City: Among the 
hardest hit areas. Water 
surged as much as three 
blocks inland. Electricity was 
restored to most of the city 
by Tuesday. 
Hilton Head: Less damage 
than expected, mostly roof 
and water damage. Some · 
broken windows, downed 
trees and power lines. 
Murrells Inlet: A marina and dock destroyed, as well as several homes. Most of th~} town had electricity re­stored Tuesday. 
Myrtle Beach: Damage es­timated at more than $600 million in Horry County. High-rise motels remain standing, but swimming pools, first-floor lobbies, restaurants and parking lots are damaged. Some hotels and motels reopened Mon­day, but a curfew remained in effect. 
Pawleys Island: Entire is· land without electricity, but most of mainland had power restored Tuesday. At least 14 homes destroyed. 
Rock Hill: Damage esti­mated at $11 million in York County. Electricity still out in several areas. 
Sumter: Damage estimated at more than $100 million in Sumter County. Sixteen houses and 160 trailers de­stroyed, about 900 suffer major damage. Seventy-five percent of the people still without power or water. 

NORTH CAROLINA -At least four deaths reported, with damage estimated at more than $500 million. Nearly 300,000 electric cus· tomors still without power. 
Charlotte: Damage esti­mated at $336 million and $75 million in Brunswick County, the state's only coastal area affected by Hugo. Over the weekend, 33 people arrested for looting in Charlotte, where 200 Na­tional Guard troops have been sent to help police. 
VIHGINIA -At least six deaths reported. The storm blew roofs off houses and toppled trees and utility poles throughout much of western and southwestern Virginia. but no major dam­~ge was reported. 
Sony may buy Columbia ~ Pictures Inc. for $3 ·billion 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Columbia Pic­tures Entertainment Inc. said Tuesday its board may decide Wednesday on a buyout offer from an unidentified suitor, widely believed to be Japan's Sony Corp. 
The deal would come in an atmosphere of consolidation sweeping the entertainment business in recent years as companies seek to position themselves in increasingly ac­cessible global markets. 
Trading in Columbia stock was active for the second con­secutive session on reports that Sony offered about $3 billion for the lilm and television pro­ducer. The rumored deal also boosted the prices of stocks of other entertainment companies. 
Columbia, Sony and Coca­Cola Co., which owns 49 per­cent of Columbia's stock, would not comment on published re­ports that Sony is offering be­tween $26 and $28 a share for all of Columbia's common stock. Columbia had about 111 million common shares out­standing as of May 31. 
Columbia stock jumped $5.25 
a share Monday when it dis­closed it was "in discussions with a third party involving their acquisition for cash of all of Columbia's outstanding shares." 
On Tuesday, Columbia said its board met Monday night to re­view those discussions, then adjourned until Wednesday when "it is anticipated that further action will be taken." 
Columbia and Sony reportedly have been talking for months. Sony is eager to expand hold­ings in the entertainment lield as a complement to its long­standing electronic hardware business. 
Columbia has a library of more than 2, 700 films and 23,000 television episodes that could provide a luerativn nnw source of revenue for Sony, which specializes in videocas­sette recorders and other hardware on whieh to display such shows. 
"Over time, there is a case for continued consolidation in the industry. The list of buyers is a lot longPr than thP list. of sellers," said Mara Balsbaugh, of Smith Barney llarris Upham & Co. 

Keane named to APQC board of directors 
Special to The Observer 

.John Keane, Korth professor of strategic management and Gillen dean of the College of Business Administration at the University of Notre Dame, has been elected to the board of di­rectors of the American Pro­ductivity and Quality Center (APQC). 
The board, with members drawn from government, busi­ness, organized labor and higher education, undertakes long-range planning for APQC, a private, nonprofit organiza­tion engaged in research and edueation concerning produc­tivity, product quality and the quality of work life. Among 

Prison 
continued from page 1 
was shot to death. 
lie identified the dead inmate as .James Bailey, 34, of Chicago, who was serving time for two counts of attempted murder. 
llowell was asked if the guards killed the inmate and injured the four others. "We don't know that for a fact," he said. "We would presume (so)." 
I lowell said authorities would investigate where the gunshots came from. lie noted, however, that prison officials hadn't re­covered any guns "that were not to be there." 
The prison in southern Illi­nois was locked down, and llowell said everything was un­der control. 
llowell said the inmate popu­lation at Menard was 2,539 at the end of last week. "That's 7 4 percent more than the prison was designed to hold," he said. 

1""1 1.....4 H..llll-•rH<C"fiOI&n 
IMd...no.tiHf~rr ·~1l l'<ltJ ...,,,..,.,, ,,,..,,Ill •1/tht.lnllrd'll"'"' 
,....,..nl•lf\u•uo• 
Ifthe press didn't tell us,who \\Ollld? 
lu tlC'I[lflnU~d IOitlf'IIUIINin 1111 lhc nlk uf ollm· l'fT" •nd hll\1 U pmtrrh mur rtJhl' urmdi'I.CU"".Im lrtc rrt''"'''IK' ullthc fn,l o\mcndmcnt t'cmcr •I I·HIN1·5-41 IMXI 

APQC's research efforts were a Keane assumed the Gillen 1986 study of the usc of em­deanship at Notre Dame in ployee involvement and flexible January 1989 after serving as pay strategies to improve pro­director of the U.S. Bureau of ductivity and a 1988 study, the Census under President funded by the U.S. Department Heagan. APQC founder C . .Jack­of Labor, to assess more accu­son Grayson, was a former rately the cost of substance dean of the business school at abuse in the workplace. Southern Methodist University. 
Litigation • Real Estate Corporations • General Practice Estates, Trusts & WIUs Employee Benefit Plans 
• 
Largest A.B.A.-approved program in Illinois 

• 
Effective employement assistance 

• 
Three-month day and six-month evening cla.'l.'les 

• 
Loop, Arlington Heights, Oak Brook and Olympia Fields locations 

• 
Student loans for qualified appli­cants 

• 
Fall term begins in September and October 


--·~n~pus:October4 ----­
For a brochure and your invatation to an information session, write or call: 
R001evelt Unlvenity Nome 
-L.wyer'• Aubt.ant 
~ 
Prognm 430S. Mlchlgon Avenue Add"'"' 
• Ollcoso, II. 60605 
Stale

312-341-3882 City 
=~~~~~~~~~~~M~on~th~~~;::. FOOTBAL!. AUDITORIUM -JACC 
Saturday. Oct 14 8:00pm Morns C1v1c Allri11nr111m all seats reserved 
$16 50 
Tickets on sale 
NOW 
C1v1c Box Office. Nightwinds. Record Connect1on & usual outlets CHARGE 284·9190 

LawSchooli 


Cruravaum TOOlay! 
It will take place between 12 and 4 in the Monogram Room of the ACC. 
Over 45 law schools will be represented. 
All are invited. 
HOW TO WATCH NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
GUEST SPEAKER: 


GEORGE KELLY 
SPECIAL ASSISTANT TO THE ATHLETIC DIRECTOR FORMER DEFENSIVE COACH FOR THE IRISH 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27 




Viewpoint
Wednesday, September 27, 1989 pag_e 5 

.. '
.. 
......., •. 0 0"

..· ~( •
~
..... • ,,... 
.... ·:'•l. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Edltor ....... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............. Molly Killen Viewpoint Edltor .................... Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ........ Shannon Roach Sports Editor ....................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ............ Aiison Cocks Accent Editor............................ John Blasi Systems Manager .............. Mark Derwent Photo Edltor.............................. Eric Bailey OTS Dlrector................... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Edltor............... Christine Gill Controller............................. Anne Lindner 

The Observer is the independent newspaper publishe.d by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob­jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

Time to launch assault on massive weaponry 
we've got to cooperate with the tliction of ultra-violence, it is What we must realize is that The generation of the 1960's By Matt Janchar National Guard medics. They're imperative that we not impede the violence issue is not a ques­refused to live by the sword for 
on our side. They're with us, our progress with the party tion of assault rifle restriction, fear they would die by it. The "Shun the Gun!" man!" lines of our political system. hand gun bans, or any legisla­generation of the 1980's has In 1968, this chant, and sev­Of course, we can not nostal­The plague of drug and gang tion for that matter. The vio­chosen to draw that sword, and 
eral others like it, echoed gically long for a return to the violence and the senseless af­lence issue is a question of me­blood has begun to spill. across the White House lawn culture and mindset of the fliction of assault rifle mas­dia, of mindset, of society as a and into President Lyndon 1960's. America must deal with sacres cannot be labeled as lib­whole. In the last two decades, Johnson's Oval Office almost today's crisis on today's terms. eral, conservative or even NRA the American psyche has un­Matt Janchar is a student in every morning. A generation of We study the causes and effects platforms. dergone a change in perception. the Freshmen Year of Studies. Americans voiced their objec­of yesterday, and then move on tion to the violence and de­to the causes of today and their struction of the Vietnam con­effects on tomorrow. We only LETTERS flict with potent outrage. Over contrast the past with the pre­twenty years later, those echoes sent in an attempt to see the 
and pleas for an end to violence present more clearly. McFarlane's speech illustrated need for new thinking
seem to have been awakened in It could be successfully ar­Washington and in many of the gued that the turbulence of the nation's major urban centers. 60's spurred many more nega­Dear Editor: remark, however, should not be this part of U.S. history be­
We are again afflicted with tive repercussions than posi­After hearing Robert McFar­surprising in light of his in­cause it undermines their the disease of violence and de­tive. The decade of free sex, lane speak, I feel compelled to volvement in the decidedly un­claims to the moral high struction. However, this disease drugs and mistrust of govern­respond to some of the things democratic, secret Iran-Contra ground. His restrictions on does not plague Americans ment gave rise to a decade of he said and provide an optional operations. academic freedom would pre­from thousands of miles across AIDS, crack and the Iran­solution. vent discussion on these issues. the Pacific as it did in the Contra affair. However, abhor­The context in which this re­1960's. It is now a cancerous rence of the gun, an ideology First, with respect to SDI, he mark was made was also Finally, talking about moral­tumor within, eating away at also prevalent in the 60's, can­claimed, using Agreed indicative of his operating ity, McFarlane claimed that SDI the security and safety once not in any way be credited with Statement D to the ABM Treaty framework. He berated the is moral because it puts lever­inherent to our American ide­our current crisis of violence. of 1972 as his basis, that the Soviet Union for repression and age on the , Soviet Union to als. It is the disease of assault treaty allowed discussion about intervention in other countries. agree to reduce the number of rifles, gang warfare and drug Remember the "Texas Tower the development and deploy­This is true: Stalinism was a nuclear weapons to a more executions. It is the disease of Shootings" of 1966? Sixteen ment of futuristic technologies. horrid period in Soviet history, manageable level. Regardless of Stealth bombers, paint guns, people were killed by a sniper in What he neglected to say, and as were the invasions of whether this is the main intent and John Rambo. a tower on the University of the legislative and diplomatic Hungary and Czechoslovakia. behind SDI-1 maintain it is 
Texas campus. Those who were history is very clear on this, However, he and others who not, and it certainly was not 
We live now in a society that alive in 1966 recall it well, and was that this only applied to condemn the Soviet Union with former President Reagan's ini­looks at weaponry with admi­those who were not yet alive fixed land-based systems, not such moral indignation seem to tial conception of SDI-his goal ration instead of disgust. Our became educated in 1986 by to space-based, air-based, sea­forget similar acts committed of going down to a lower level Department of Defense proudly black and white news footage based, or mobile land-based by the United States. of nuclear weapons is immoral. displayed an airplane literally commemorating the twentieth systems-advanced develop­worth more than its weight in anniversary of the incident. ment and testing of these other They forget our multitudi­Since the only possible use for gold. Pay-by-the-clip assault Will we remember San types is still prohibited under nous invasions of Nicaragua these weapons is the mass de­rifle ranges and "Laser Tag Ysidro, Stockton, or Louisville the ABM Treaty. His attempt to this century; the part the U.S. struction of human life, the only Arenas" sprang up across the twenty years from now? reinterpret the ABM Treaty played in the overthrow of the moral position is that all nu­country with almost equal pop­Probably not. These specific in­flies in the face of logic and constitutionally elected Arbenz clear weapons should be abol­ularity to each other. From the cidents will merit little com­history. government in Guatemala in ished. However, it is clear, nei­World Wrestling Federation to memoration in 2010. Since the 1954; how the U.S. ruined the ther McFarlane nor the current The Geraldo Show, we are a so­Vietnam Era, America's respect Secondly, (and this is some­economy of Chile, and then administration, nor almost ciety that profits through ultra­of the gun has been heightened, thing that anybody at Notre helped to overthrow Salvador anybody else in decision-making violence. Gone are the days along with its insensibility to Dame or any other intellectual Allende in 1973; or the role the positions want this to happen. 
when olive-drab was the color the violence of the gun. The community, regardless of polit­U.S. played in installing and of the enemy, and peace was turbulence of the 80's is not ical stripe, should be outraged supporting the brutal regime of the anthem of the age. Recall expressed with words or about) at the reception after his the Shah of Iran for 30 years. Kurt Mills the plea issued during the chants; it is expressed with bul­talk, McFarlane stated that 
Graduate Student 
Woodstock Festival in August, lets. there should be restrictions on The list goes on, but Peace Studies 1969: "Ladies and gentlemen, In our attempt to end the af-academic freedom. This type of McFarlane and others ignore Sept. 20, 1989 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE QAY 
1'0 /..II<& 70 /l£l.(f)l;fe &VtR.Y800Y 
70 7Ht ANNUCU.. DR. WHOOP&& R£6/0NA/... 5t/J.,£S CONF&Rl1.JCE! 
ooes tV&t<Y­ONe IN 'rVUI< 
BU51Ne~ 
TA/..K. /...11</3 
THAT"<! 
\ 
NAH. JU5T7H8 6U"'SIN Stl/..&'3, 
I 

'Bromidic though it may sound, some questions don't have answers, which is a terribly difficult lesson to learn.' 


Katharine Graham 
(1917-) 

-------~--­

Accent
page 6 Wednesday, September 27, 1989 

Just a 15 minute ride from the splendors of Cape Town, the Crossroads is a shantytown of 55,000 people stricken with extreme poverty. 
EVERY MAN'S 

NIGHTMARE 
BLACK MAN'S 

REALITY 
t was the best os­
1 
trieh-egg omelette I 
had ever tasted, 
and it was all the 
morn special due to 
the surroundings in 

whieh I feasted. I was in 
Mitehell's Plain, a colored 
township on the outskirts of 
Cape Town, South Africa, and 
I was lucky enough to be invit­
ed to dinner with several fam­
ilies. None of my hosts had 
much money, yet each 
brought vegetables and other 
itnms to add to the omelnttn. 
In thn end, we eaeh had our 
fill and spent the rest of the 
evnning sharing stories-they 
telling of life in a colored 
township and I of life in the 
Unitnd Stales. 
Such was a lypieal day dur­ing my two week visit to South Af'riea. I belinve that I lnarned more in that 14 day period than during any other time in my life. I traveled to the coun­try to work as a voluntary stan· member for Arehbishop Tutu and also to get a realistic view of apartheid. I accom­plished both objectives and learned a great deal about myself and this country in the process. If anything, I have come to the realization that neither I nor the United States is doing enough to help save South Africa. 
When I first arrived in Cape Town, I thought I had found a paradise. Physieally it is the most beautiful place I have ever seen. The mountains whieh ring the sparkling 
"There are two South Africas: 
one for the whites and one for 
the blacks." 
Two 

When I received my first 
South glimpse of how the vast major­ity of South Africans live, I Africas couldn't believe my eyes. I thought I had an understand­By Mike Schadek ing of what the townships were like. 
beaches combine with lush flowers and vegetation to pro­duce an amazing sight. The homes are luxurious, the res­taurants arc chic and delicious, and the stores rival the best Ameriea has to offer. It seems to have the best of everything, and the South Africans arc a privileged people. The white South Africans, that is. 
During the first two days of my visit, I had only been in white areas of Cape Town, and thus I had only experienced white South Africa, which is in­deed paradise. I never stopped to realize that no black South Africans had been driving any of the BMW's or Mercedes which cruise the streets. I never stoppnd to realize that no black South Africans had been swim­ming in the pools or playing tennis at any of the beautiful homes surrounding Bishop­scourt. No black South Africans were dining in the nice restau­rants or shopping in the stores. I would soon find out that Chris Ahrends, the Archbishop's Chaplain and my day to day su­pervisor and friend was abso­lutely correct when he told me: 

I was absolutely wrong. After a 15 minute ride from Bishop­scourt, I stepped out of the car in Crossroads, a black shanty town comprised of about 55,000 people. I became physi­cally ill at the sight. It was pov­erty unlike anything I have ever seen, and I couldn't be­lieve any government could al­low people to live in such conditions. The people live in whatever they can find, and garbage litters the narrow paths between the shanties. It was simply an unexplainable sight and one I shall never for­get. As we were leaving Cross­roads and got on the highway into Cape Town, I looked back for a final glimpse of the shan­tics. Such a view was impossi­ble because the government had erected huge mounds of earth on the side of the high­way to obstruct sight of the Crossroads. "Out of sight, out of mind," replied my guide, and we headed back to the white areas of Cape Town. 
Mike Schadek is a senior government major. This is the first article in ci series on South Africa. 
Photos by Mike Schadek. 
During his 14 
day stay in 
South Africa, 
senior Mike 
Schadek (right) 
was a voluntary 
staff member 
for Archbishop 
Desmond Tutu. 
SOUTH AFRICA 

Wednesday, September 27, 1989 The Observer page 7 
-l 
The Observer accepts class1heds every busmess day from 10 am to 3:30pm at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Samt Marys off1ce. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day c1ass1heds IS 3 p.m All c1ass1f1eds must be 
prepa1d The charge is 2 cents per character per day. 1nclud1ng spaces
Classifieds 
NOTICES  ATTENTION: EARN MONEY READING BOOKS! $32,000/year income potential. Details. (1) 602­ HELP, THE WHOLE FAMILY IS COMING FOR USC, SO WE NEED LOTS OF TICKETS. WILLING TO  SELLING 4 PURDUE GA'S. CALL JIM AT 277-9198  R.E.M. TICKETS Four 13th row, center tickets Best offer. Call3590 or 3897  $$NEED USC GA & STUD TIX$$$ $$$ Please call Cheri x2605 $$$  
PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard 3 blks. from NO campus 233-2342 $$$FOR YOUR BOOKS  838-8885 Ext. Bk 6262. SEEK "80 DIDNT DO DIDDL Y"  PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL JOHN OR ERIKAT1622  need usc ga's call diane x2702  NEED 2 USC GAS AND 7 NAVY GAS!!!!!! CALL JULIE X3141 !!!!!!!  PERSONALS  
WE BUY AND SELL USED TEXTBOOKS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  T-SHIRT, XLG CALL MO 291-6428  I NEED 6 PITT TICKETS CALL 277-9281 OR X2760. WILL PAY$$$$$$$$$  Need TXTS All Games call Bill 277-3653  TOP$ ALL HOME GA'S  ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OFPRAYERANDJOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A  
TYPING  BABYSITTING NEEDED FOR 2  312-920-9350  CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE:  
JACKIE BOGGS 684-8793  BOYS 1 &3, OCCASSIONAL Y ON WEEK DAY NIGHTS. CALL 287­3694  Need two SMU tix please call 284­4930!!!!!!!!!!  NEED 2 GA'S & 2 STUDS FOR USC! NICOLE X2818  NEED GA TICKETS TO ANY HOME GAME-CALL 283-4618  POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W, KOKOMO, IN 46901.  
LEGAL SECRETARY WILL DO TYPING/WORD PROCESSING. PICK UP & DELIVERY AVAILABLE. CALL 255-1726.  Looking to buy any of the "BO KNOWS ..." shirts. call Laure at 4801  NEED SEVERAL PITT GA'S PLEASE!! #2819 NEED TICKETS FOR ALL N.D.  NEED 2 GA'S AND 3 STUDENT TIX FOR ANY GAME. WILL INCLUDE 1 TOXIC AND RODENT PROOF SUIT GOOD FOR A VISIT  I NEED PURDUE & ALL HOME GAME TIX 272-6306 I NEED 2 PITT GA's  HiTBass!!! Hi Jeff CP, Ag  
Student Comedy, Bands and coffehouse call 277-3653 Alumni  REALLY NEED RIDE TO  GAMES. 272-9772 AFTER-P.M.  TO THE DINING HALL. CALL KELLY X4420  FOR MY PARENTS CALL SUE x2485  
Sr. Club wants you ....  CHAMPAIGN/URBANA ON SATURDAY AND TO COME BACK  Need many MIAMI tix.  NEED 6 USC GA'S!  MIAMI FLIGHTS • MIAMI FLIGHTS  
SUNDAY. PLEASE CALL 288­ $ $ $ $  PLEASE CALL x4933  NEED 3 GA'S FOR PITT.,NAVY,  Round-trip airfares to Miami or  
0885.  Barry 289-8417.  OR USC. HAVE CASH AND PITT.  Fort Lauderdale. Depart Nov. 22  
Have you figured ouL  I NEED 1 NORTHWEST  NEED 4 NAVY GAs X3500-WATTS  STUD. TO TRADE! CALL JOE AT 2079  from Midway (Chicago); return Nov. 27 to Midway (Chi.).  
.. . how you're going to do it? Huh? Have you? Any ideas?  AIRLINE TICKET VOUCHER. WILL PAY$$$. CALL SEAN AT X2446 OR X2458.  NEED FOUR GA's TO NAVY!!!!! PLEASE CALL KARIN x1321 !!!  WANTED: USC vs . NDTICKETS 24hr. answering service  WANTED 2 FOR USC WILL TRADE 2 PENN ST 301-949-4392  $239 for students, $265 for others. Tix sold on first-come, first-serve basis, and are non-refundable. Anthony Travel 1-800-?DOMERS  
(213) 487· 4161  COLLECT  
Alumni Senior Club Needs STUDENT COMEDY call Bill 277-3653 or 239 7521 COLLEGE REPUBLICAN MEETING TONIGHT AT 7:30 p.m. IN THE MONTGOMERY THEATER OF LAFORTUNE TYPING AVAILABLE.  FOR RENT BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 2 BEDROOM HOUSE FOR RENT. 5 MINUTE WALK TO CAMPUS. $350. 234-4153.  NEED 2 USC GA'S CALLCAROLYN X4510 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 2 SMU TICKETS-GA'S PLEASE CALL 277-9281 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I need USC GA's. Will beat best  1-'ome (213)422-2812 T needs ONE USC Ticket--bad. Call him before he kills himself over it at 1870. I NEED, yes I need GA's for the USC game. Please sell me yours. Amy #2640. $$$  HELP HELP HELP I NEED 2 USC GA'S !!!!! I HAVE CASH!!! PLEASE CALL ALLISON AT2128 !!!!!! Yo! Yo! Me and King Midas need GA'sto: U.S.C., PITT, NAVY,PSU  NANCY I LOVE YOU! KEEP PRAYING FORME. TOM Need Ride to Madison, WI. or LaCrosse, WI. for weekend of 9129-1 0/1 . Can leave Thursday or  
287-4082. Word Processing available. Reasonable rates. 277-6091 Private Math Tuition Call 271-9971 after 6 PM LOST/FOUND  FOR SALE COLOR TV RENTALS 19-INCH, $70/SEM, $120/YR; 25-INCH, $90/SEM, $160/YR FREE DELIVERY COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272­5959 '89 NO GRAD SELLING '82 OLDS  offer. Ann x2830 NEED PITT TIX : 2 GA 1 STUD MUGHO DINERO • BOB Q x1409 NEED GA TIX FOR ANY HOME GAMES. CALL MATT 272-3491. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Alumni need USC tix. Will  WILL TRADE 2 NAVY GAs or 2 SMU GAs for 2 PITT GAs Call277-0526 Evenings I NEED LOTS OF USC STUD TIX!!! Call Hales at 3640  caiiSPANKY x4274 I NEED PURDUE TIX MIKE #4047 NEED PITT GA'S PLEASE!! BETH 3706  Friday, anytime. Call Bill, 271-8483. Need Ride to Madison, WI. or LaCrosse, WI. for weekend of 9/29-1 0/1 _ Can leave Thursday or Friday, anytime. Call Bill, 271-8483. JUNIORS  
LOST GOLD CLADDAGH RING OUTSIDE O'SHAG. DIAMOND STONE REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE CALL X2670 OR 277-9281 IF FOUND. LOST: JEAN JACKET WITH  WAGON. GOOD CONDITION, RUNS WELL. NO PROBLEMS STARTING OR MAINTAINING. $1200 (NEG.) GREAT FOR SCHOOL, BETTER FOR GETTING TO & FROM. CALL CHRIS AT (312) 935-8368 AFTER ?PM.  pay big lawyer bucks !! Call Sam at (201) 334-3804 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ PLEASE HELP!! I desperately need an SMU student of GA ticket!! Thanks! Johanna at # 4456  NeeD 1 PURDUE TickeT BiG BuckS Sean "2298 STANFORD TIX: need 2-4, call x2532 & leave message  Desperately need 2 USC GAs, Will pay $$$ Call Sean X4332 I have one extra So Cal ticket, will trade for one Pitt ticket.Call evening or leave message: (312) 784-8182  Proofs From The "lnfamous"Chicago Cruise Are On Sale In The Junior Class Office From Tues. Thru Fri. Come See How Much Fun You Actually Had !!!! If you're gay, lesbian, or bisexual,  
CORDUROY COLLAR. JACKET HAS A TEAR BEHIND THE NECK AND HAS A 1988 US OLYMPIC PIN ON THE LEFT POCKET REWARD OFFERED FOR RETURN. CALL MARK . X3467 FOUND: a watch in Knott study room. Kathleen x4930. LOST: MINOL TA FREEDOM ZOOM 90 CAMARA. LAST SEEN IN MAIN CIRCLE. NOT INSURED, NOT PAID FOR, VERY. VERY VALUABLE!!! CALL PETE AT #1863 ANYTIME! $100.00 REWARD. R U honest, or? lost pr. black Vuarnets at Lafortune's auto bank teller. 9/11. Please call X4043 or leave w/ Carroll Hall rector. HELPI.!! Levi's Jean Jacket with all my ID lost Sat. night. Probably in Alumni somewhere. x4777. LOST: GOLD ROPE BRACELET EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE CALL LISA AT X4916  '75 chevy; runs great; $600/negotiable call 282-1327 Alumni Senior Club ................ WED 9-2 Foreign policy nile DJ Bryan Rao THURS 9-2 Club Cup Nile DJ Todd Brown FRI 9-2 LIVE... ST PAUL and the MARTYRS SAT 9-2 Pur-WHO nile DJ Luis Munoz Plane Ticket: SB to Newark for Fall Break--Super cheap!!! CaiiJ.at1870 ATTENTION-GOVERNMENT HOMES from $1 (U-repair). Delinquent tax property. Repossessions. Call 1-602-838­8885 Ext. GH 6262. ATTENTION-GOVERNMENT SEIZED VEHICLES FROM $100. FORDS, MERCEDES, CORVETTES, CHEVYS. SURPLUS BUYERS GUIDE. 1­602-838-8885 EXT A 6262.  I NEED 2 USC GA's!!!!!! MAURA x3835. $$$$$$$$$$ HAVE tix to any game-will trade for 2 USC stud or GA. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Need SMU and NAVY GA's: Call Jim at 287-9854 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I REALLY REALLY REALLY need 2 Navy GA or stud. tix. If you can help me out, call Kate at x3858. I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S and 1 SMUGA CALL KRISTEN AT X2735 have two GA's for SMU and PITT need 3 USC --ANNE 2670 WANTED PITI. TICKETS call pete #2344569  NEED GAS FOR PITT, NAVY & SMU $$$$ CALL TOM & MARTY X 3185 WANTED: 2 STD & 4 GA FOR USC GAME WILL TOP ANY OFFER BIG BUCKS $$$ CALL BRIAN •1 026 ANYTIME NO PRICE TOO HIGH !!!!!!!! NEED 3 USC TIX GAORSTUD $$ CALL: 4272 HAVE 1 USC STUD NEED2 SMU GA TRADE OR BUY Call Joe 2647 WILL TRADE 1 USC STUD. TIX FOR 1 PITT STUD TIX. CALL MIKE AT 277-5706 Need 3 GA's & 1 stud 4 USC game. Will pay finder's fee. Call Dave 277-3687 PITT or USC GAs needed desparately. Please call  NEED up to 6 USC GAs.$ no problem. Jim x1236 SELLING 4 PURDUE tix for FACE John #1665 I need two GA tix for Pitt or Navy. Call Bill X2008. NAVY thugs beat up my dog. Let my parents see the Irish stomp them. Need 2 GAs x1160 I NEED 'EM! 2USCGA'S call Paula x4633 $$$$$$$$$$NEED$$$$$$$$$$ SMU and MIAMI GA'S TRADE FOR BLANK CHECK!!!!!! CALL JEFF AT 283-1504. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ LOVIN' OR MONEY-That's what I'll give to get my family tix for USC!!! I need 3 GA's. CALL CRAZV JEN @ 2272! WILL TRADE 2 PITT GA's FOR 2 USC GA's 2773097  you are not alone. For someone to talk to, contact us. Gays & Lesbians at Notre Dame/ St. Mary's College P.O. Box 194 Notre Dame, IN 46556 AG AG AG AG AG AG AG AG AG HELLO, HOW R U? HEY3294! SURE, I'LL GO! TAKE A LOAD OFF! Rent a locker in LaFortune Student Center. Only $5 per year. Available through LaFortune Information Desk. Open 9am-9pm weekdays, Noon-9pm weekends. Spend a day in CHICAGO. Ride the WINDY CITY SHUTTLE. $10  
WANTED  One-way ticket Midway to LaGuardia Sun. P.M. Oct . 22  NEED 2 SMU GA'S BADLY! Call Krista X1618  Mike at #2288. NEED SEVERAL PITT TIX  Will trade two PITT GA's for 2 USC GA's; call Paul x3367  round-trip bus fare. Tickets available at Information Desk, 1st Floor LaFortune.  
V-Tapes all1988-89 N.D. football  Call 277-0679 Great Bahamian vacation!!!!!!!  I need many tickets for the Navy  PLEASE!! #2819 • HELP THE NEEDY! !I  Need one USC student ticket; call Julie x4914  VALUE CHECK COUPON BOOKS are available at the Information  
games. Please call Paul Roy 232­ call x1839 for details  game. Please call Colin at x1930.  I need 1 Pitt ticket  Desk, 1st Floor LaFortune.  
7602 I will pay for ALL EXPENSES for a ride to Cleveland. traveling any time between 9/28 and 10/2.  SONY 1OOW/ch AN Rcvr,SurrSnd+2-1 DOW spkrs.Asking $400 call Mark>271­ I'll buy any tickets for any home game, or Miami. call JEFF at 239-3714,  I need 4 USC tickets Call 4364 Kevin H. NEED 2 USC GA'S Please Call Vin x-2015  WILLING TO TRADE A PURDUE TICKET OR AN REM TICKET FOR USC STUD OR GA. CALL GINA X4853.  To the Freshman Class of Saint Mary's: Thanks for all your support! I'm looking forward to an exciting and  
Please call 288-2956 Need a babysitter in my home for two children 6 and 3 years old (noon-5:30 daily M-F). References  0672  TICKETS  leave a message. Thanks. PURDUE tickets needed. call Will4048  need 2 NAVY ga's. Will trade for stud tix (any game) or buy. x3202.  Call x4930 and repeat after me,"''d love to sell you 2 USC GA's,Kathleen."  eventful year. Love, Your Presicent. Colleen Rhattigan To the lovely, Dark-haired woman  -­ 
required, please call 255-3869 after 5:30.  Travel Tour Operator needs tickets for all N.D. games-home  Student tickets for sale;  Save dad's job! Boss and family need 2-4 USC GA or stdnt tix.  ANY PITT GAs? Please call Mary at x4822! Very negotiable on price.  in the dark blue sweater, tight jeans, low heels, and shades, who was sitting out between Lafortune  
NEW YORK NEW YORK NEW YORK If u r headed to Albany, NYC, or anywhere betw. the 2. I need a ride home for Oct. Break. Will share expenses and driving.  and away, especially MSU, USC and Miami. Premium price paid. Immediate case available. Will trade for all major sporting events including Final 4, Indy 500 and bowl game, etc. Will also buy season tickets. Please call Dave at  Pittsburgh (3) SMU (2) Navy (3) Call287-9854 (Ted or Greg) SO. CAL-NEED 6 TIC'S HAVE 2 PITT, NAVY, SO. METH WILL TRADE  PLEASE call Pete at X1699-l'd like to stay at ND.$$ NEED 2 GA's FOR PITT or NAVY Please Call Vin x-2015  WILL TRADE 2 STUD. TIX TOGETHER BEHIND SENIORS 50 YD. LINE FOR 2 GA'S FOR EACH HOME GAME. CALL 233-8273, ASK FOR BROTHER RICHARD HILUS OR LEAVE MESSAGE.  and Stonehenge on Tuesday at around 1 :15: From across the lonely empty spaces, a cherished view: A remnant, a vision remembers the soft Summer dew  
Can leave and return whenever ... please call x3442. If you have $99 airfare tickets you are willing to sell call Lisa at X2822  1-800-828-8955 today. Desperate! Will give my first born or any $ for 2 USC GAs Chris B  CALL 215-642-2765 PURDUE tix,pair, FOR SALE Dave (201) 729-9172, Evenings, Eastern Time  I NEED 2 PITT GA'S (FOR MY PARENTS)!!! CALL CARYN 4830. ELVIS IS DEAD and so am I if I  ONE PITT AND ONE USC STUDENT TIX FOR SALE BEST OFFER BY THE 29TH CALL x3817  And spirited flowery cool breezy feelings for you Please accept my humble rose of crystaline clear: I wish your feelings perchance to  
#1484  can't find 3 GA tickets to the Pitt  be for me as sincere  
Ride Needed:  I need 4 Navy tickets-2std. &2G.A.  game. 317-743-7208.  All my love tor a kind and gentle  
U. of Illinois on Oct. 13 Call Lynn @3848  need 8 Mich St Ga's. Rick #1795  Please call Sean H. at X4327.  Help! Need 3 GA tickets to Pitt  WANTED: USC vs.  yes to me my dear.  
H.......E.....L.....P  NEED 2 PITT GA'S CALL KEVIN  game. 317-743-7208.  NDTICKETS  The Lonely Cavalier  
ATTENTION-HIRING! Government jobs -your area. $17,840-$69.485. Callt-602-838­8885. EXT R 6262.  NEED 2-4 GA'S (TOGETHER) FOR ANY GAME. WILL PAY BIG MOOLAH ($$). PLEASE CALL JEFF 277-3998.  X1247 NEED 4 PITT GA'S CALL TONY AT 234-1048  Need TIXX to any home football game. Big$$$. Call John X1583  2-4hr. answering service (213) 487· 4111 Home (213)422-2112  see CLASS/ page 10  


-

Sports Wednesday
page 8 September 27, 1 989 
TOP25 POLL AL LEADERS SPORTS LIST 
The Top Twenty Five teams in the Asso­BASEBALL'S TOP TEN ciated Press college football poll, with first­
Based on 442 at Bats. 
place votes in parentheses, records 

AMERICAN LEAGUE
through Sept. 23, total points based on 25­

Sitting it Out 
24-23-22-21-20-19-18-17-16-15-14-13-G AB R H Pet. 12-11-10-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1 and last Puckett Min 154 612 73 209 .342 
Selected Hall of Famers who never played in a World Series week's ranking: Lansford Oak 143 538 79 181 .336
Record P1s Pvs 

Boggs Bsn 152 608 109 201 .331 
1. Luke Appling (1930-50)
1. 
Notre Dame (57) 3-0-0 1 ,497 1 


2. 
Miamr~ Fla. (.3) 3-0-0 1 ,432 2 Sax NY 153 631 85 202 .320 


2. Ernie Banks (1953-71)
3. Nebraska 3-0-0 1 ,315 3 Baines Tex 140 487 73 155 .318 
3. Harry Heilmann (1914-32)4. Aubum 2-0-0 1 ,284 4 
Yount Mil 154 592 98 188 .318
5. Colorado 3-0-0 1 ,236 6 

4. George Kell (1943-57)Franco Tex 149 548 80 173 .316
6. Michigan 1-1-0 1,193 5 

5. Ralph Kiner (1946-55)
7. 
Clemson 4-0-0 1 , 186 7 Molitor Mil 149 593 81 187 .315 

8. 
Arkansas 2-0-0 1 ,030 8 Browne Cle 147 577 81 177 .307 


6. Nap Lajoie (1896-1916)9. West Virginia 4-0-0 955 9 
Sierra Tex 155 612 99 188 .307 
7. T Lyons (1923-46)10. Pittsburgh 3-0-0 943 13 
11. Southern Cal 2-1-0 852 12 

8. G Sisler (1915-30)12. Tennessee 3-0-0 803 14 
Home Runs 

9. B Williams 1959-76)13. Alabama 2-0-0 725 15 
14. 
Houston 2-0-0 659 17 McGriff, Toronto, 36; Carter, Cleveland, 34; BJackson, Kansas City, 

15. 
N. Carolina St. 4-0-0 565 18 31; McGwire, Oakland, 31; Esasky, Boston, 29; Sierra, Texas, 28;


, 
16. Oklahoma 2-1-0 544 16 Whitaker, Detroit, 28; Deer, Milwaukee, 26. 17. Arizona 3-1-0 495 23 
Runs Batted In 
18. Syracuse 2-1-0 462 10 

19. Washington St. 4-0-0 422 19 Sierra, Texas, 118; Mattingly, New York, 108; Carter, Cleveland, 104; 
20.11linors 2-1-0 366 20 Esasky, Boston, 104; GSell, Toronto, 101; BJackson, Kansas City, 99; 21. Washington 2-1-0 320 11 
Yount, Milwaukee, 99; Evans, Boston, 96. 
22. Texas A&M 2-1-0 233 21 

Pitching (15 Decisions)
23. Georgia 2-0-0 213 ­

24. 
Air Force 4-0-0 163 -Saberhagen, Kansas City, 21-6, .778; Blyleven, California, 16-5, .762; 

25. 
Florida St. 2-2-0 145 -SDavis, Oakland, 19-7, .731; Bankhead, Seattle, 14-6, .700; Ballard, Other receivrng votes: Michigan St. 117, 


Baltimore, 18-8, .692; Stewart, Oakland, 20-9, .690; Swindell,
UCLA 84. Texas Tech 61, Virginia 58, 

Cleveland, 13-6, .684; Welch, Oakland, 17-8, .680.
Penn St. 30, Oregon 24, Fresno St. 18, The Observer I Laura Stanton South Carolina 15, Louisville 13, Missis­
sippr St. 13, Hawaii 9, Army 6, Mississippi 

NL LEADERS BASEBALL
4, Brigham Young 2, Florida 2, LSU 2, E. 
Michrgan 1, Indiana 1, Ohio St. 1, Stanford 

1. AMERICAN LEAGUE East Division
BASEBALL'S TOPTEN 
w L Pet GB l10 Streak Home AwayBased on 442 at Bats. Toronto 86 72 .544 z-5-5 Lost 1 44-34 42-38SPORTS CALENDAR NATIONAL LEAGUE Baltimore 85 72 .541 1/2 6-4 Won 1 47·34 38-38 Boston 80 77 .510 51/2 z-9·1 Won 6 43·33 37-44
G AB R H Pet.
Calendar Milwaukee 79 77 .506 6 5·5 Lost 1 44-35 35·42
WCiarkSF 154 568 103 190 .335 
Cleveland 71 85 .455 14 4-6 Won 4 41-40 30-45 TGwynnSD 153 583 81 194 .333 New York 71 86 .452 141/2 4-6 Lost 2 39-39 32-47
Home game in CAPS .316
LSmith Atl 133 478 89 151 Detroit 58 100 .367 28 2-8 Won 1 38·42 20-58 West Division 
Grace Chi 138 500 72 156 .312
Wednesday w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away
Guerrero StL 157 555 60 173 .312
Volleyball vs. PURDUE, 7 p.m. Oakland 94 62 603 6-4 Lost 1 49-26 45-36 Walton Chi 113 465 64 138 .297 California 89 67 .571 5 z-5-5 Lost 4 50·25 39-42 KMitchell SF 149 527 100 155 .294 Kansas City 89 67 .571 5 4-6 Won 1 55-26 34-41 Texas 81 75 .519 13 7-3 Won 3 45-36 36·39
RAiomarSD 153 599 78 176 .294
Thursday Minnesota 77 80 .490 17112 Z·2·8 Lost 2 45-36 32·44
Oquendo StL 158 540 58 158 .293
No sports scheduled Seattle 69 87 .442 25 4-6 Lost 1 36-39 33-48 MThmpsn StL 150 526 57 153 .291 Chicago 67 89 .429 27 5-5 Won 1 33·42 34-47 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Friday 

Home Runs East Division
Men's Soccer vs. INDIANA, 7:30 
w L Pet GB l10 Streak Home Away

KMitchell, San Francisco, 47; HJohnson, New York, 35; EDavis,
p.m. x-Chicago 90 68 .570 6·4 Won 1 48-33 42·35
Cincinnati, 34; GDavis, Houston, 33; Sandberg, Chicago, 30;
Tennis in TOM FALLON St. Louis 85 73 .538 5 z-7-3 Lost 2 45-33 40-40 
Strawberry, New York, 29; JaCiark, San Diego, 25; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, New York 83 74 529 61/2 5-5 Won 1 51·29 32·45INVITATIONAL 
24; VHayes, Philadelphia, 24. Montreal 81 77 .513 9 z-4-6 Lost 1 44-36 37-41 Pittsburgh 73 84 .465 161/2 z-6-4 Won 2 38·38 35-46
Runs Batted In 
Philadelphia 63 95 .399 27 2·8 Lost 1 35·42 28·53
KMitchell, San Francisco, 125; Guerrero, St. Louis, 115; WCiark, San 
West Division 
Saturday Francisco, 1 09; EDavis, Cincinnati, 1 00; HJohnson, New York, 97; 

w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away
Football at Purdue, 11 a.m. 

JaCiark, San Diego, 93; Murray, Los Angeles, 88; GDavis, Houston, 87. San Francisco 91 66 .580 6-4 Lost 1 53-28 38·38 Women's golf at Michigan State San Diego 86 71 .548 5 z-7-3 Lost 1 43·33 43-38
Pitching (15 Decisions)
Invitational Houston 83 74 .529 8 z-5-5 Lost 3 46·34 37-40
Garrelts, San Francisco, 14-4, .778; Darwin, Houston, 11-4, . 733; 
Los Angeles 74 83 .471 17 z-5·5 Won 1 42-37 32-46
Tennis in TOM FALLON 

DeMartinez, Montreal, 16-6, .727; Bielecki, Chicago, 17-7, .708; Cincinnati 73 84 .465 18 3-7 Won 1 37-41 36·43INVITATIONAL 
Reuschel, San Francisco, 17-7, .708; Fernandez, New York, 12-5, .706; Atlanta 62 95 .395 29 4-6 Won 2 33·45 29-50 z-denotes first game was a win 
Magrane, St. Louis, 18-8, .692; Parrett, Philadelphia, 12-6, .667; Scott, x-clinched division title. AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Sunday Houston, 20-10, .667. Tuesday's Games Tuesday's Games 
Men's soccer vs. WISCONSIN, 2 

Late Games Not Included Late Games Not Included 
p.m. 

Boston 9, New York 5 Pittsburgh 4, St. Louis 1 
Women's golf at Michigan State SCOREBOARD Detroit 4, Toronto 3 
Chicago 3, Montreal 2 Invitational Minnesota at Chicago, (late) New York 3, Philadelphia 0 Baltimore at Milwaukee, (late) Atlanta at Houston, (late) 
Tennis in TOM FALLON Results for Sept. 2()..26 Football (3-0) 
Texas at Oakland, (late) Cincinnati at San Diego, (late) 
INVITATIONAL 

Notre Dame 21, Michigan State 13 
Cleveland at Seattle, (late) San Francisco at Los Angeles, (late) Kansas City at California, (late) 
Volleyball (2-8) 

Golf Monday Houston del. Notre Dame, 15-12, 15-Wednesday's Games Wednesday's Games 
Women's Men's golf at Glenn Oaks 9.9-15,6-15, 14-16. New York at Boston Chicago at Montreal 
Notre Dame captured first place in 
Toronto at Detroit St. Louis at Pittsburgh
Notre Dame del. Oklahoma, 15-10.
Community College 

the Lady Greyhound Invitational with a Minnesota at Chicago Philadelphia at New York 
10-15, 15-5, 15-6. 

record-breaking team score of 327. Baltimore at Milwaukee Atlanta at Houston 
Louisiana State del. Notre Dame, Texas at Oakland Cincinnati at San Diego Tuesday 15-3,8-15,7-15, 15-10. 15-2. Cleveland at Seattle San Francisco at Los Angeles 
Men's 

Kansas City at California p.m. Thursday's Games 
No sports scheduled 

Notre Dame took fifth place in the No games scheduled Men's Soccer (5-2-1) 
Thursday's Games 
Indiana Intercollegiate Golf
Notre Dame 4, Loyola of Chicago 0 Texas at Oakland Championships with a team score of
Oct. 4. Notre Dame 4, Michigan State 1 Cleveland at Seattle Volleyball at Ohio State, 7:30p.m. Notre Dame 1 , Marquette 1 615. Kansas City at California Only gam~s scheduled 


TIIS WEEK IN SM[ ITILUICS: all actillities sponsored l111f;lr:JO~c:~ rnJGJGlaD [D£Jc IIJ[][]0~0dlrn ffifl ~Billill maxn rJMtco IDb'3a trmmocmr mfl WilD rnn illrnQJrnllm by: IPaJUlrtt;?fJJDO.O.c:~ 'iJUlrn~ [OOa [].Gfirn ~~mUJ~g]filll a!CDDa mtl ~gaiiJ mo mmwrnDrn 
n 
Notr~ Da.me-pU* vp co-~xs for FaU Fat Picnic in STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD Dtni.IICJ Haas Wal. & 'Jku.rs. (liDO a.va.UafJle) IIIJ .L .l. I I 
SAI•t IIARY·s COLLEGE

SMC Seniors sign up for Senior Portraits this weet! 
Wednesday, September 27, 1989 The Observer page 9 
SPORTS BRIEFS ••• five minutes in ABC's national


Items 
Purdue has gained the telecast of the game. The Irish 
Observer Sports Department will hold a mandatory meeting for all new and current writers at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday, Sept. 27. Call Theresa at 239-5303 for more information. 
Rowing Club will hold a meeting at 7:30p.m. Wednesday night in Room 118 Nieuwland for all members going to Pittsburgh. 
SMC varsity track will meet at 7:30p.m. tonight in Angela Athletic _Facility lounge. Call 284-5584 for more information. 
SENIOR CLUB BILLIARDS 9-BALL 
3-CUSHION BILLIARDS SNOOKER 
WE HAVE THE BEST "SHOOTIN" TABLES IN THE AREA, WITH A QUIET PLAYING ATMOSPHERE. EVERYONE PLAYS "POOL" AT THE: SENIORS CLUB BILLIARDS 603 E. WASHINGTON SOUTH BEND 233-0301 
OPEN MONDAY THRU SATURDAY 9 AM-? 
Smith Corona presents three products that can help make schoolwork academic. 
The Smith Corona PWP 2000 Personal Word Processor is in a class by itself. lfs so compact it can fit in the most compact dorm room.Yet7 thanks to features like a built-in disk drive7 1007000 character DataDisk capacity7 and a crystal clear display, it makes it easy to transform B's into N.s. 
For those who prefer an electronic typewriter7 the Smith Corona XD 4600 is the typewriter of preference. With its 16 character display and ap­proximately 0QOO characters of editable memory, 
For more information on these or Smith 

continued from page 12 nickname "Spoilermakers" over 
the years mainly because of Irish. An easy victory would be their success in upsetting their just what the Irish need, as it more highly-regarded would allow Holtz to give some neighbors from South Bend. gametime to the underclassmen · The Boilers have been without any risk. particularly successful when 
Quarterback is one position facing a top-ranked Notre where the Irish dearly need Dame. ( more experience from their In the 60 meetings between backups. If Notre Dame jumps the two teams, Purdue has to a big lead early Saturday, played a No. 1 Notre Dame look for reserves Rick Mirer squad six times. The Boilers and Pete Graham to get have won four of those chances directing the offense. contests, the most recent 
"We need a quarterback with meeting being a 28-21 Purdue 
some experience in case victory in 1967. something happens to Tony Look for Purdue's history of Rice along the road," said surprising Notre Dame teams Holtz. to be mentioned about every 
John P. O'Malley 
Sales Representative• New Memberships or Transfers 
ILLINOII• INDIANA 

Auto & Property Insurance 
CHICAGO 
AM-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 
MOTOR 
5922 GRAPE ROAD 
CLUB 

INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 
you can have the convenience of word processing features with the simplicity of a typewriter. 
Of course7 the pocket-size Spell-Right'" 300P also comes with impeccable references. In this case7 a built-in electronic dictionary, a thesaurus7 a calculator7 even a collection of challenging word games. 
So if you're thinking Magna Cum Laude at the end of this year; _ SMITI-1 do~7 t forget to think ~1111111 CORON~ 
Smith Corona at the TOMORROVIISTECHNOlOGY beginning of this year. ATYOURTOUCH'" 
enter Ross-Ade Stadium as 31­point favorites, and a Purdue victory would probably rank as the biggest upset in the 60­game history of this rivalry. 
.Another former Notre Dame offensive lineman from Chicago gets to face his former team this weekend, though there figures to be much less animosity this time around. 
Jason Cegielski, a 6-2, 265­pound guard from Chicago St. Rita High School, is a junior at Purdue. Cegielski entered Notre Dame out of high school but left the University for academic reasons after his freshman year. 
Like Jeff Pearson, the former Irish offensive lineman now at Michigan State, Cegielski has found success in the Big Ten. A returning starter, Cegielski bench-presses almost 450 pounds and is an all-Big Ten candidate. 
Unlike Pearson, Cegielski has not spent the week speaking out about his dislike for Notre Dame and has not mentioned any sort of "vendetta" against particular players. 

WANTED: USC vs. NDTICKETS 24hr. answering service (213) 487-4161 Home (213)422-2812  
" THANKSGIVING BREAK ON MIAMI BEACH" N.D. VS MIAMI {219) 237-5334 ATLAS TOURS  
Working for Peace our resource guide brings together a wide range ofapproachesinto one easy-to-use book covering peace organizations, arms control, personal diplomacy, peace studies, how to work through your church, school, business or local government, and lots more. For your reference and for friends who don't know where to begin. $5.95 per copy The Fund for Peace 345 East 46th Stree~ New York 10017  


page 10 The Observer Wednesday, September 27, 1989 
Eilers prefers blocking to glamour of scoring Irish TDs 
By MARY GARINO 
Sports Writer 
When Pat Eilers remembers his favorite plays of the football season, he doesn't think of catching long passes or running for touchdowns. lie thinks of blocking. 
"I like blocking linebackers," he says. "Those are the most memorable plays for me. I like it when the other person doesn't know you're coming, and you can really unload on them." 
Eilers has done his share of blocking in his role as Notre Dame's starting split end this year. But Eilers has also had many opportunities to carry the ball, haul in long passes and sack opposing quarterbacks in his three years playing for the Irish. He has been one of the most versatile players on the team, starting as flanker and strong safety in addition to his 

play  on  special  teams.  But  
Eilers'  best  skills  lie  in  his  
receiving ability.  

"His best features as a receiver are his intelligence and reliability," says Pete Cordelli, the coach of the receiving corps. "He's a smart player and even though he's not that fast, he has the ability to get open and make the catch." 
Last spring, when Haghib Ismail was moved from split end to flanker, Eilers made the switch from flanker to split end. One other role that Eilers has assumed this year is that of a team leader for the Irish. As a fifth year senior, he has become a model for the younger members of the team and has helped them to learn their jobs. 
"He is the example," Cordelli says. "He has great work habits, and he sets the tempo for the other receivers." 
The offense, and the receivers especially, need every bit of leadership that they can get this year. The only other wide 
receivers  who  are  
upperclassmen  are  David  
Jandric  and  Antwon  Lark.  

Going into the season, the receivers were one of the question marks for the Irish. 
"It's still is a legitimate concern, because we don't throw the ball a lot. We establish the run," Eilers says about the offense. "But I don't think you will ever lind a better receiver than Hocket Ismail. And everyone else has done a great job." 
"The offense still hasn't come into its own," Eilers continued. "With the exception of the first half of the Virginia game, we really haven't gone out there and dominated the game. I think we have been unfair to the defense so far." 
Playing on a dominating football team is one of the reasons that Eilers transferred to Notre Dame from Yale after his freshman year. Coming out 
of  high  school,  Eilers  
considered  attending  Notre  
Dame  but  opted  for  Yale  

instead. He was confident about playing for the Fighting Irish when he finally did transfer, and he hasn't regretted the decision. 
"I've met a lot of great people 
here, and I feel fortunate to be 
associated with the players and 
the coaching staff. It has been 
a really positive experience," 
Eilers says. 
Eilers finished the requirements for a biology degree last May, and is currently working towards a second degree in mechanical engineering. lie says that he has a special commitment that the other seniors share. 
"We've been afforded a great opportunity here at Notre Dame, and we are committed to what Notre Dame stands for. To go out and do a great job is rewarding and satisfying," Eilers says. 
after 6:30pm weekdays, anytime 

1st!!!! Buses leave Main Circle at
but Martinez escaped when weekends.Attorney involved. 

11 :00. Lunch/ dinner provided. 
Multicultural
Andre Dawson grounded into 

Tickets are $3. 00 but will go Fall Festival
CONGRATULATIONS

an inning-ending double play. quick-pick them up at the is coming 
DAN+KRISTIN!!!!!!!!!! 

Freshmen Yr. of Studies starting Oct. 1. 7
A crowd of 11,615, bolstered 
Best Wishes for many happy 

Wed, Sept. 27. Take a day off and 
by three tour groups from (& peppy) yearsl 

meet some people in your class!! 
Chicago, sat quiet for most of Love, Chrissie

the night. Even with the retractable dome covering JUNIORS!!! Needed Ride to Chicago(No. JUNIORS!!!
Olympic Stadium, the 

suburbs) 9-29 to 1 0·1. Will help Buy tixs to the OCT 6 FALL 
temperature inside was only in 

pay for gas. PLEASE call Mike FORMAL all this week at 3 -5 pm the upper 50s. x4663. in the Class office. Before the game, the Expos 
announced that Manager Buck Hodgers would return next year. There had been speculation he would be 


Happy
dismisspd after a disappointing season that began with high hopes and ended with 

21st TG! 
elimination last weekend. 
The Expos were in first place from June 26 to Aug. 6, but fell out when Maddux and the Cubs beat them 5-2 on Aug. 7. 

In the other pennant races, Love, the Oakland Athleties clinched a tie for their second straight Amy, Liza, American League West title, beating the Texas Hangers 4-3 Tuesday night on Dave Moand Henderson's two-run homer in the eighth inning. Elsewhere, 
Shannon 
the Baltimore Orioles remained one game behind Toronto. 


STUDENT PUGWASH, 
NOTRE DAME PRESENTS: 
"WHAT EVER HAPPENED TO ... NUCLEAR WINTER" 
A LECTURE BY PAUL KENNY, PhD PROFESSOR OF PHYSICS THURSDAY,SEPTEMBER28 7:00P.M. GALVIN AUDITORIUM with the special assistance from the Reilly Center for Science, Technology, and Values 
AN EVENING WITH 


Tickets also available at Tracks Tickets on sale at the Saint . f!i--­(South Bend), Nightwinds (Niles), Mary's Box Office, located in Super Sounds Record Connection, O'Laug~lin Auditorium, Satnt Mary's Colleg~ World Records (Elkhart) 
Alissa. Angie, Cindy, Kristin, Kath, ABDUCTED: SIX·FOOT Multicultural need ride to Knoxville or Johnson Maggie, Burke, 335H.C., Mol· INFLATABLE SKELETON FROM Fall Festival City, Tenn. Will share driving and 





Cubs Class 

Bags.. Shelia__ ST. PETER STREET PARTY ON is coming gas. Leave 9/29 after 3, Return continued from page 12 continued from page 7 KEEP_THE_FAITH____ MOZER 9/1. HE IS TERRIBLY MISSED. Oct. 1. 7 1 0/2 before BAM. Call Katie X4413 LARGE REWARD FOR HIS SAFE Santovenia's one-out sacrifice RETURN.
CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable St. Edward's Hall Players HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANDREW! 
JUNIORS

fly with the bases loaded made atmosphere, daily & weekly Informational meeting for all
IF INTERESTED IN BEING A MY NAME IS AMY
it 2-2. specials, pool table, English darts, interested in helping with the (Sorry, I didn't put a picture in. 
INVOLVED WITTH A CLASS AND MY BOYFRIENDS NAME IS The Cubs scored in the second SERVICE PROJECT, THERE ANDY
and great company. 234-3541 production of Noises Off. I figured you'd be so swarmed Thursday, 7 pm, 321 St. Ed's 
with girls you'd never get any 

on a walk and Hick Wrona's IS STILL TIME. WE COME FROM ALABAMA homework done!) 
ADOPTION: Loving, professional 

CALLTERRYLOUGHRAN AND WE LIKE APPLES ..
two-out triple and added a run Hey Captain, HAPPY 21 STI
couple in Midwest wishes to adopt x1712 Thanx for caring. Orphanhood's 

in the sixth on Sandberg's newborn. We offer stable and HAVE A GOOD ONE! 
awesome.Sewer holes 4ever! 

double off the left-field fence happy home, financial security, IRISH MUSIC wrth welcoming extended family. 
Love, Skideddi

and Smith's bloop single. Mark FRESHMEN TRIP TO THE John Kennedy and Friends P.S. Do you know your lines? Since you missed 1t the 1st time:PLEASE call collect 513-751-6711 Saturday Night at Club 23 Grace singled Smith to third, DUNES IS SUNDAY, OCTOBER 
Mon-m 9 a.m.-4 p.m. NOTRE DAME·· INDIANA Visa/MasterCard orders by phone at 219!284-4626 
To the Man with the Strength of Thanks to everyone who made 10 Men and the Man with the 28 lb. my birthday so special!! You guys care package--We like you more are the greatest I I love ya! than "perfect" chocolate chip 
Nora cookies. 



We can 
give yousomething



to smile· about. 

Unsightly and embarrassing teeth can now be repaired, restored, reshaped and recolored to the beautiful, natural look you 'ue always wanted . . . in a single, painless visit. Call us today about bonding. 
ov~~ 
~ 
\~G 

South Bend Office: Granger Office: 1005 East LaSalle Ave (Slate Road 23The South Bend. Indiana al Bl!tersweet Tr ) 
Dental Center 219·233·1177 219·277·0544 



~­

-----------~-------­
----------------·--~------~----­
Wednesday, September 27, 1989 The Observer page 11 
CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 



Anyone interested in being a dd~Jti/r.-~Pf~~~ntaUve/ for the Student Union Board, pl(:!ase J.)icf< Up an application at the reception desk,. 2nd Floor LaFortune. 
Wednesday 
7 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents a recep­tion for all Engineering, Mathematics, Management with MIS, Economics, CAPP, Finance and MBA's interested in discovering career opportunities with Arthur Andersen Consulting in the University Club, Upper Lounge. 
7:30 p.m. Notre Dame Women's Volleyball vs. Purdue, JACC. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
12:15 p.m. Women Exploring Beauty series presents, "The Experience of Creative Expression," by a panel of Saint Mary's students, Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall. 
4 p.m. Kellogg Institute presents an informal discussion with Martin Wilson of the Department of Economics, Room 131 Decio. 
4:20 p.m. Physics Department presents, "Nuclear Structure Effects in Double Beta Decay," by Stewart Pit­tel, University of Delaware, Room 118 Nieuwland. 
7:30 p.m. Open panel discussion, "Shouldn't the Roman Catholic Church also Ordain Women?" with panelists Sis­ter Regina Coli, Father O'Meara, and Teresa Phelps, Hes­burgh Library Auditorium. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Baked Cod Sesame Roast Pork Loin Stir Fry Beef Sweet & Sour Meatballs Potato Skins French Waffies Speidano Romano Deli Bar 
ACROSS 23 Classify 25 Nero's route1 Salt 
26 Get wind of4 Additionally 28 Derisive people
a Out-of-date 33 Bewildered

13-Fjordat 

36 Harbach of TinIceland 
Pan Alley
15 Arikaras 38 Zone 

16 Wahine hi 

39 Sad song, by 11 "La Boheme" Walter role Donaldson: 1930 18 Bonifaces' 42 Dill of old domains 43 Voice 19 Fence pickets disapproval 44 Luges
20 Old horse 45 Nap
21 Happy tune, by Harry Woods: 47 Leave off 1927 49XIVxXXV 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
...;...&.;;;.L;;;.J,;..;.J 
51 Play hob with toytrains 
55 Sweet song, by Webster and Fain: 1953 
60--time (pronto) 61 Eva or Juan 62 Runs a tab 63 Bear down on 64 Sneak off romantically 65 Pique 66 Christie or Karen ina 67 Diamond, pearl, etc. 68 Medieval domestic 69 Louganis rating 
DOWN 
1-Bay Buccaneers 2 Leafstalk angles 3 Neural branch 4 Bristlelike appendage 5--Lenape Indians 
6 Melancholic song, by Sondheim: 1973 
7 Caucasus native 8 Ancient writings 9 Sigher's word 
1 o Arias 


11 Storage place 12 Vacationer's delight 14 Verdi opera 22 Sired 24 Substantial 27 Poet laureate: 1715-18 29 "Les Sylphides" figure 30 NY. canal  32 Smart talk 33 Controversial pesticide 34 Antler part 35 Action 37 Moped part 40 Boot 41 Actual being 46 Tantrums in  48 "-Fideles" 50 Finish a run on Broadway 52 About 53 Empty-headed 54 Radar's cousin 55 Small barracuda 56 Evasive 57 Rural payoff 58 Hitchcock thriller  
31 Clarinet insert  public  59 Ore carrier  

COMICS 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
BUZZ MC FLATTOP 
\H. \1££ ! DO 'iCl'J ~INK. 5\-lE RE"'EM~ I-lOW l.ASi TIME WE -rnRE~TE.NED 1t> fUJS" 1-1£R SC.I£.1\CE NOT£.'5 DO'tiN "'ll£ TOIL£\ ? 

BILL WA HERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
SI-IE Q.N1 GU' fo.~~'i '1\ITI-\ 1\115. YtE.'U.. 0.\.l. 1\\E RESI:)Jt. ~N). 


"So, Billy! Seems your father and I can never leave without you getting yourself into some kind of trouble!" 



Sports
page 12 Wednesday, September 27, 1989 
ND volleyball faces Boilermakers 


By GREG SCHECKENBACH 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame head coach Art Lambert is praying that history does not repeat itself tonight when the Irish host intrastate rival Purdue at 7 p.m. in the Joyce ACC Arena. 
His fear is very legitimate, since Notre Dame has never beaten the Boilermakers in nine previous matches. Last year, an experienced Irish squad lost a tough match to Purdue in four games. Luckily for Lambert, a 

.. new year brings a new team with different expectations. "We'll have to play the best we have played all year," stated Lambert. "Since we arc not able to scout them before the match, it will be less of Purdue's performance and more of our own that determines the outcome." Notre Dame comes into the match with a 2-8 record while Purdue enters the contest at 5­
6. Although the Irish haven't won a lot of matches, Lambert insists that they arc competitive and able to compete with anyone. 

"Our record is very deceiving," said Lambert, "but we are making progress every day through competitive practices. Our goal is to play better than the match before, and so far we have done that." 
The Boilermakers will be led by outside hitter Debbie McDonald and setter Kelly Niedbalski. Both are formidable forces at the net and should challenge the young Irish front row. According to Lambert, blocking is the key to stopping the Purdue tandem. 
"If we do a better job blocking," said Lambert, "we probably will come away with a win." 
The Irish attack will indude senior outside hitter Kathy Cunningham and freshmen Alicia Turner and Jessica Fiebelkorn. All have performed well in the early season and are expected to continue their style of play in the future. Junior Amy White, who recently made the jump from setter to outside hitter, will be a catalyst for the Irish as senior Taryn Collins will assume the setting job. Jennifer Slosar and Tracy Shelton are both expected to contribute greatly in the match. 
"Our experience is a problem right now," stated Lambert. "As we play morn I expect great things from our younger players-they are excellent athletes." 
History is not on the side of tlw Irish, but honw court advantage is. Notre Dame has a great chance to put a mark in the win column against the Boilermakers in front of a supportive home crowd. Since the Irish have subsequent momentum from last weekend's tournament and are looking to end a period of frustration, a quality performance can be expected. 

Hey, hey, holy mackerel: Cubs clinch NL East title 
Associated Press 
MONTHEAL -The Chicago Cubs clinched their second National League East eharnpionship in six seasons, beating Montreal 3-2 Tuesday night with an unearned run in th1~ eighth inning after second­place St. Louis already lost. 
The Cubs took advantage of the Cardinals' 4-1 defeat in Pittsburgh and became the first team to guarantee a spot in the playoffs. 
Hyne Sandberg's dash horne in the eighth made Don Zimmer a champion for the first time in 11 years of managing, and also made meaningless a season­ending, three-game series in St. Louis. 
Chicago will open the playolTs Wednesday night at Wrigley Field, all but certainly against San Francisco. The Cubs and Giants split 12 games this year. 
After Mike Fitzgerald made the final out of the game, the Cubs darted out of the dugout and met in celebration at the mound. 
Sandberg, the only everyday starter remaining from the Cubs' last title team in 1984, scored the go-ahead run with the kind of aggressive play that transformed Chicago from an 77-85 club last year into winners. 
Sandberg singled with two outs and was running when Dwight Smith followed with a single to right field. When Hubie Brooks bobbled the ball for a split second, Sandberg kept going and beat second baseman Torn Foley's relay to the plate. 
Zimmer, Chicago's eighth manager in the 1980s, was among the first to greet Sandberg as the Cubs spilled on to the field. Smith, who had never played in the big leagues before this season -think about all the years Ernie Banks and Billy Williams played for the Cubs and never won anything -also did a little celebration dance on the bases. 
Greg Maddux, 19-12, allowed seven hits in 8 1-3 innings and Mitch Williams got two outs for his 36th save. Maddux is second in the league in victories, one behind Houston's Mike Scott. 
It was the second time this season Maddux and Sandberg had teamed up to win a big game. On Aug. 7, the Cubs took sole possession of first place for good when they beat co-leader Montreal behind time in six games. Ali of their Sandberg's home run and playoff games are sold out as Maddux' seven-hitter. 27 million telephone calls were 

Dennis Martinez, 16-7, took received the first day 84,000 the loss. tickets went on sale. 
The Cubs, who have not been At the exact moment the in the World Series since 1945 Cardinals lost, there was no and not won it since 1908, cheering in the Cubs' dugout earned another chance to get because they were in trouble, there by winning for the fifth too. 

The Expos, shut out on three hits for live innings, tied it with two runs in the sixth. Hookie Marquis Grissom. Andres Galarraga and llubie Brooks op1~nPd with singles for the first run and, with tlw Cardinals' final posted, NPison 
see CUBS/ page 1 0 

Irish look for young players to step in and contribute 
Notre Dame's four turnovers were not the only thing that had Lou Holtz concerned after the 21-13 Irish victory over Michigan State last weekend. 
Depth problems at linebacker and in the offensive backfield have tlw Fighting Irish coach wondering how his team can survive the 12-game regular season. 
"Last year we got better as the season went on," said Iloltz. "One of the reasons was we eould play a lot of different people. Hight now we don't have that depth. 
"Wt~'w got to lind out if (freshmen) are ready to make a contribution to this team. We have no other option or we'll be a bask1~t case by the end of the year." 
Holtz's pre-game pessimism rarely is taken too seriously. In his three-plus years at Notre Dame, Holtz has made a habit of spending the week discussing the weaknesses of his team then watching the Irish fnast on opponents every Saturday. 
This time, Holtz doesn't seem to be blowing smoke. A look at thn Irish depth ehart shows just how prPrarious Notre Dame's situation has beeome 


Steve Megargee 
Irish Items 

in certain areas, particulary at linebacker and running back. 
Ned Bolcar and Donn Grimm have played nearly every down at linebacker each of the past two games. 
"We can't continue to play two linebackers," said Holtz. "We have to play more people even if it costs us dearly." 
After sophomore Michael Smalls, the reserves at linebacker inelude Karl McGill, Demetrius DuBose, Brian Hatigan, Nick Smith and Handy Scianna -all freshmen. 
In the offensive backfield, Hicky Watters is the only completely healthy running baek with any kind of college experience. 
Hodney Culver missed most of the Michigan State game after suffering a hip pointer during a second­quarter fumble, but he should be ready for the Purdue game. Anthony Johnson has nagging aches that are an inevitable result of playing almost every down at fullback. 
With the early-season loss of Kenny Spears to academies, along with the summer news that Braxston Banks and Tony Brooks would not be available, what seemed to be Notre Dame's strongest area has become inereasingly thin. 
Holtz has indicated that Heggie Brooks, a freshman from Tulsa, Okla., and the younger brother of Tony, will see playing time against Purdue. Sophomores Walter Boyd and Husty Setzer and freshman Dorsey Levens also might appear this weekend. 
"I don't have any doubt (Brooks) is ready to play if he can protect the football," said Holtz. "We'll lind out a lot about Heggie Brooks on Saturday." 
If last year's game (a 52-7 Notre Dame rout) is any indication, Saturday's matchup with Purdue might not present a significant ehallengP to the 
see ITEMS/ page 9 





