
VOL. XXIII NO. 12 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Thousands flee East Germany for the West 
Associated Press 
PASSAU, West Germany ­Crammed into sputtering sedans and cheering their new freedom, thousands of East Germans reached the West on Monday in a historic exodus permitted by the reform­minded Communist government in Hungary. 
More than 2,000 refugees had made the journey from Hungary to Austria and then West Germany by midmorning, with hundreds more streaming in later in the day. News re­ports said the total could top 10,000. 
"I decided on escaping 27 years ago, and today it worked. It's a feeling that's just tops, just wild," said a 40-year-old Leipzig man after crossing into West Germany at Passau. 
Single people, couples and families with children and ba­bies made the journey from Hungary to West Germany ­by bus, rickety sedans or mo­torcycle. 
"We did not really plan to come here, but when we heard about the opening of the (Hungarian-Austrian) border, we decided this was a chance," said 20-year-old Volkmar Windt, who crossed into West Germany on a small East German-made motorcycle along with his twin sister, Katrin. 
Many refugees were cheering and shouting as they reached Bavaria under the blaze of tele­vision lights, while their chil­dren played with teddy bears handed out by relief workers. Couples kissed in their cars. 
Some tumbled out of compact cars packed with people and jubilantly flashed victory signs 
see FLEE I page 4 
University receives grant for bioengineering center 
Special to the Observer 
A science initiative grant of $500,000 has been awarded to the University of Notre Dame's Center for Bioengineering and Pollution Control by the Kresge Foundation over the sum­mer. 
The grant was made on a challenge basis to aid the University in raising a per­manent endowment for the future maintenance and up­dating of the center's facili­ties. 
Full payment of the grant is contingent on the raising over the next two years of $2 million for the research center, according to Michael Kenahan, Notre Dame's di~ rector of foundation and corporation relations. 
The Kresge Foundation is an independent, private foundation created by the personal gifts of Sebastian Kresge and is .not affiliated with any corporation or or­ganization. The foundation's Science Initiative program was established last year to encourage institutions to improve or replace needed laboratory equipment. in­strumentation or facilities. 
The Center for Bioengineering and Pollution Control was established as a cooperative enterprise of the University's Co . .of Engineering. and S...· . e. Its multidisciplinary research and teaching make use ofre~ cently developed technologies to examine contemporary environmental problems. 


, 
AP Photo 
Refugees from East Germany queue up for the lunch in the Zugligat camp in Budapest, Hungary. About 6,500 people from East Germany are waiting in six camps for the chance to go to West Germany. 
ND faculty pay 'improving' 
By SANDRA WIEGAND News Staff 
The average compensation for Notre Dame faculty mem­bers is second highest in the nation after cost-of-living ad­justments, according to a re­cent article in the Journal of Higher Education. 
The article stated that the av­erage compensation in 1986-87 was $54,000 per faculty mem­ber. When adjusted for the local cost-of-living, the figure was $59,100. 
Vice President for Business Affairs ,James Lyphout, said that the university has simulta­neously been improving both the pay and the quality of pro­fessors at Notre Dame. 
"The two go hand in hand." he said. Lyphout said that Notre 
Dame is presently in the top quarter percentile for raw salaries, and predicted that the university will make every ef­fort to maintain this position. 
Full professors are the only faculty members included in the survey, according to Lyphout. 
Frank Bonello, Co-chair of the Benefits Committee, specu­lates that the inclusion of pro­fessors who are chairholders could distort the figures. Since chairholders can receive money from private citizens, their compensation is considerably more than that of other full professors. 
Both Lyphout and Bonello ac­knowledge the large part com­pensation plays in attracting high-caliber professors. 
"If you want a good lawyer, you buy him; if you want a highly qualified professor, you do the same." said Bonello. 
Lyphout said that salary in­creases at Notre Dame have been the result of the Provost's hard work. 
He said that the recent in­crease in salary for professors has played a primary role in in­creasing tuition, but also noted other factors, such as the in­stallation of computers and higher insurance costs. 
Schools included in the calcu­
lation  were  those  for  which  
American  Chamber  of  
Commerce  Researchers'  
Association  statistics  were  

available, said a recent South Bend Tribune article. The com­pensation listed in the Journal article came from the annual American Association of University Professors survey, and the cost-of-living factors are those used by the ACCRA. 

CHINA IN TURMOIL 
Chinese student aids in fight for democracy in homeland 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Senior Staff Reporter 
This is the second of a three­part series. 
A Chinese Notre Dame gradu­ate student left the University for Bejing two days after the crackdown and managed to re­turn to the United States two months later despite the Chinese government's new visa laws. 
Twenty-seven year old Xiao Qiang, a physics student who studied at Notre Dame for three years said he went to Bejing because he "couldn't sleep or eat" after the mas­sacre. 
Qiang , originally from Bejing, left Notre Dame Saturday to volunteer for the national Chinese solidarity 
group in Washington, D.C. Qiang said the group will be primarily lobbying in Congress. 
He says he is pro-democracy and as an undergraduate stu­dent in China he was a very ac­tive supporter of the cause. However, last spring when the Chinese students began democ­racy demonstrations in Bejing, Qiang watched from afar. 
"In the beginning of the pro­democracy demonstrations I tried not to watch," said Qiang. He said it was difficult to be so far away and not be able to support the students. 
Qiang said he saw many good things happening in China. "It was not just political, it was about humanity," said Qiang. He said the signs the students wore were touching ,such as "Man I'm hungry, but I can't eat" and "Love." 

To Qiang it was as if there was a big festival in Bejing, he said it seemed much more free and liberal than the norm in China. "It really moved me," he added. According to Qiang, life is generally depressing for the Chinese. 
After the massacre in Tiananman Square, Qiang said he was very depressed and could not study. "I thought to myself, if I can do something, anything, I'll do it." 
Qiang decided that he was going back to China. "With no hesitation, I wanted to be back with my people at the darkest and most dangerous time. I wanted to visit the families of those who had died and tell them how much we love them here (in the U.S.)." 
He said he wanted to carry the message himself by actually going to China and speaking to the people in person. "I knew I wouldn't change anything," he said. Qiang said he knew he could be killed or jailed, but he wanted to go anyway. 
"I tried to get a grollp of people to come with me," stated Qiang. "There was a group that was going prior to the mas­sacre, but they decided that there was no point in going, that it was too dangerous." 
Qiang said he used the ticket of one of the members of the group and traveled alone. "It was less dangerous alone and it was worth it just to let families know I cared." 

"I tried to plan the best route to China and asked friends for their advice," said Qiang. "I wanted to finish my trip with­out being jailed." Many people advised Qiang not to make the trip at all. 
Qiang did not call his family to tell them that he was making the trip, as he feared they would think it too dangerous. 
Taking almost nothing with him, Qiang left from Chicago on June 6. He flew first to Seattle, then to Hong Kong. He said he feared two different situations: 1.) that he would be stopped in customs or 2.) that he would be jailed once he got into China. He decided to buy a ticket from Hong Kong to Guang Zhou in­stead of trying to fly directly into Bejing. 
"There were only three people on the plane leaving for China, and all had Chinese names. All the foreigners were leaving and the airports (in China) were 
see CHINA I page 4 
---~---­

---------------------------..
-

page 2 The Observer Tuesday, September 12, 1989 
One more reason not to get up so early 
WORLD BRIEFS 

Lothar Gottsche, a graduate student in mathematics at the University of Notre Dame, has received a fellowship from the Max Planck Institute for Mathematics in Bonn, West Germany. A native of Bonn, Gottsche will do research at the Max Planck Institute through the fall semester. Gottsche, who began graduate study at Notre Dame last fall, is pursuing a doctoral degree in mathematics under the direction of Andrew Sommese, professor of mathematics. His research project is entitled "The Topology of the Hilbert Scheme of Finite Length 0-Dimensional Sub Schemes of Smooth Projective Surfaces." 

NATIONAL BRIEFS 
Trump Castle Hotel & Casino in Atlantic City, N.J. did not intentionally mislead gamblers with incorrect instructions in a roulette guide that has been distributed since 1986, state gaming officials said Monday. However, Robert Signore, of Ambler, Pa., says he lost $800 because of the faulty guide and has filed a law­suit in small claims court to recover the money.State documents show that both the state Division of Gaming Enforcement and the Casino Control Commission knew as early as September 1986 that the Trump Castle gaming guide was inaccurate. 
Billionaire publisher Malcolm Forbes took a weekend mo­torcycle trek down the Natchez Trace Parkway and stopped at a plantation home, and described the experience as a 400-mile "drive-in history lesson." Forbes said the trip was designed to generate publicity for the historic parkway, following a route once used by pioneers, traders and trappers headed from Nashville, Tenn., to the Mississippi River port of Natchez, Miss., and for a national park planned for Natchez. 
Alexander Haig, four-star general, failed presidential candidate, former secretary of state and one-time aide to Richard Nixon, now has made his debut on stage in Oceanside, California.On Sunday night, Haig and his wife, Pat, narrated Ogden Nash's verses that accompany Camille Saint-Saens' "Carnival of the Animals."The performance with the California Chamber Virtuosi ended a three-day music festival celebrating the fifth anniversary of Leisure Village Ocean Hills, a 1 ,200-unit re­tirement community. Haig is on its board of directors. 
All 2,200 high school freshmen in Norfolk, Va. will be guaranteed a chance to go to college if they maintain a C-plus av­erage under a plan announced Monday by a scholarship founda­tion. The students will be promised sufficient financial aid if they sign contracts also agreeing to keep a C average in college preparatory courses and a 90 percent attendance record.Parents must agree to an unspecified personal contribution to college costs, generally at least $700 annually, said Frank Batten, board chairman of the Tidewater Scholarship Foundation. 
Mayor Don Fraser of Minneapolis,saw an aide chasing a thief who had grabbed her purse, so the 65-year-old mayor fig­ured the only thing to do was join the chase.Wearing a suit and tie and leather shoes, the mayor bolted down office building steps Sunday, raced around the back of a house and headed up a side street.But Fraser wasn't quite fast enough. Witnesses said the thief hopped into a waiting car and was gone.Katie Fournier, whose purse was stolen, was impressed with Fraser's efforts. 

WEATHER 

Cooler 
Partly sunny and cool today. Highs in the upper 60s. Cloudy and cool tonight with a chance of light rain after midnight. Lows from 50 to 55. Cloudy and cooler tomorrow with a chance of light rain. 
7 a.m. was too early for fame, but that's when it struck me, for that is when my alarm went off last Friday. I wasn't too thrilled about the time, or even about getting up for that matter, but what I heard inspired me. It was a plea, a plea for anyone who was listening to WVFI at such an ungodly hour to call and admit it to the unbelieving d.j. (He obviously wasn't too fond of doing the "early-bird" show, I deduced from his more-than sarcastic re­marks.) 
Being 7 a.m., I had nothing better to do than call and prove to him that he did have a listener, an over-tired, and somewhat comatose listener, but a listener nonetheless. 
He was so thrilled. The exuberance in his voice ... well, it warmed the cockles of my heart. He proceeded to dedicate the next hour to me, a decision that would ruin my morning, and possibly my entire day. 
After announcing to the otherwise non­existent listening world that, "the next song is for our love goddess Monica," I knew I was in trouble. From that moment on, EVERY song he played was for the "love goddess." 
He changed his pleas for calls by adding the ever-clever, "Come on, call us up... Monica did." The madness of my simple phone-in had far outstretched the realm of reality when I heard his marriage proposal, and I shuddered at the ramifications of such publicity. (This wasn't exactly the way a freshman wants to get her name in circulation ... ) 
He asked me to call him back, again and again. With each call came a few more re­quests from my part to just play the music, and not name games. He was bored, and started calling me. I knew I'd made a mistake when I told him that I'd have the answering machine take the calls, because he was chomping at the bits for something catchy to use on the air. But, before I had a chance to analyze his intentions, "nature" called, and I had to make an exit to the bathroom. 


OF INTEREST 


It was a bad move, the worst, because as I re-entered my room, I heard MY voice being broadcast, via the machine, over the air. Of course, he left another goofy message, which sent me into an even bigger tizzy. 
This "Ode to Monica" had to end. For one thing, I was thinking seriously about going to my morning class, and dreading what would happen if he was left on the air, unsupervised by my keen ear. The gods must have decided that I'd had enough, because my fifteen minutes of Wharhol-ish torture came to end when my beloved d.j. closed his show, with a dedication 
and thanks to his "number one fan, Monica." 
Looking back I must admit that it was rather funny, and probably the result of my own doing. It couldn't have traumatized me too much, because just this morning I caught myself calling the station. Maybe it's one of those bizarre habits, calling up radio stations at to request music at ridiculous hours in the morn­ing. The guy on the air this morning seemed fond of my name, come to think of it. 
I must be either a glutton for punish­ment, or just really bored in the wee hours of the morning. Maybe I'm cursed, doomed to be a d.j.'s dream, and my own nightmare. But it doesn't really matter, because no one else is lis­tening anyway. 
The London Program Spring '90 is having a mandatory meeting Tuesday, Sept. 12 at 6:30 pm in Galvin Life Science Auditorium. Important materials including enrollment cards and course descriptions will be distributed. 
Seniors in the College of Engineering are strongly encouraged to attend Engineering Placement Night this evening at 7:00 pm in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Representatives from Air Products & Chemicals, Mead Data, and the NASA Lewis Research Center will discuss ca­reer opportunities. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
Appalachia and Washington Seminar lrformation night tonight at Center for Social Concerns: Appalachia 7-8 pm; Washington 8-9 pm. These are one-credit theology credit semi­nars held over fall break Oct. 22-27. 
Sacramental preparation information session for those interested in Confirmation is being held Wednesday, Sept. 13. It will be in the Counseling Center Meeting Room, third floor, Student Health Center at 7 pm. Call Sr. Mary Curran, CSC Campus Ministry 239-5242. 
Notre Dame Science Quarterly Magazine's first meeting is Tuesday, Sept. 12 in Room 118 NSH at 7:00 pm. All interested in writing are asked to attend. For more infor­mation call Pat McLoughlin 283-1786 or Chris­tine Creely 283-4098. 
The Observer Of Interest, Campus, and Lecture sections are for free. one time events of general interest. The deadline is 1 p.m. the day before the publishing date. No exceptions! 
Notice: The Observer provides these spaces free as a public service. The Observer reserves the right to edit entries and to determine if, when, and where they will be placed in the newspaper. 
Of Interest, Campus, and Lecture forms can be submitted to The Observer, located on the 3rd floor of the Lafortune Student Center, Sunday through Friday in person or by mail. Of Interest, Campus, and Lecture information can not be submitted by phone. 
Weekly meetings of campus organizations will not be run in Of Interest, Campus, and Lecture sections because they are not one time events. · A specific issue of The Observer will contain events which occur between 2 p.m. THAT DAY and 
1:59 p.m. the NEXT day. For example, Monday's paper will contain events which occur between 2 
p.m. Monday and 1:59 p.m. Tuesday. Consequently, all events announced through the Of Interest, Campus, and Lecture sections must occur after 2 p.m. of the publishing date and before 2 p.m. of the next day. The only exception to this will be Friday papers, which will contain events which occur between 2 p.m. Friday and 1:59 p.m. and the following Monday. 
If you have an item which you believe has to be published, please consider placing a classified or display advertisement. The Observer makes no guarantee, due to space limitations, that any item or items that are submitted to the Of Interest, Campus, and Lector~ sections will be published. 
Complaints regarding this policy should be directed to the Day Chief. 

l:ll!is91 EdiDr ........................... Kathy Gliwa Design Assistant ............ Cheever Griffin Typesetter ....... Bernard Brenninkmeyer
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 ................................................ Gilbert Gomez Assistant News Editor.. Christine Walsh 
(219) 239-7471 
News Copy E!llor............ Janice O'Leary Sports Copy Edlto .......... Molly Mahoney VIewpoint Copy Editor ............ Kim Skiles VIewpoint Layout ............ Molly Schwartz 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except 
Accent Editor ..................... Colleen Cronin dunng exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the 
Accent Copy Editor_ Stephanie Snyder Univers1ty of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur· 
Accent Desl{Jler ................... Alison Cocks 

chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
l'hc:*lglaphel ........................... Matt Mittino 

The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights 
NO Day Editor ........................Janet Herold are reserved. 
Tuesday, September 12, 1989 
Over $1.5 M given in grants 
of Energy for research by $32,445 from the U.S. Air
Special to the Observer 
Randal Ruchti, professor of Force for research by Stephen 
physics, on fiber-optic detector Batill, associate professor of 
development for the supercon­aerospace and mechanical 
The University of Notre Dame ducting supercollider. engineering, on preliminary received $1,506,632 in grants design of flight vehicle struc­during the summer for the sup­$98,000 from the National tures. port of research and various Science Foundation for re­programs. Research funds to­search by Ikaros Bigi, associate $24,990 from the Public taled $1,370,191, including: professor of physics, on indi­Health Service for Aedes al­
rect probes for new physics. bopictus collection by George 
$225,000 from the National $60,000 from the National Craig Jr., Clark professor of Science Foundation for a ·Science Foundation for re­biological sciences. Fermilab collider experiment by search by Kenneth Olson, ad­$19,684 from the National Nripendra Biswas. Paul Kenny, junct professor of biological Science Foundation for re­professors of physics, and John search by Mei-Chi Shaw, asso­LoSecco, associate professor of sciences, on hormone ciate professor of mathematics, physics. metabolism by fish gills. on solvability, regularity and 
$180,220 from the National $50,000 from the National embeddability of CR structures. Institutes of Health for re­Science Foundation for re­$9,880 from the National search by Marvin Miller, pro­search by David Lodge, assis­Geographic Society for research fessor of chemistry on the syn­tant professor of biological by William Hawley, assistant thesis and study of microbial sciences, on predation, her­faculty fellow, Leonard iron chelators and analogs. bivory and disturbance. Munstermann, associate faculty 
$40,040 from the U.S. Dept. fellow in biological sciences, 
$133,259 from the National of Navy for research by and George Craig, Jr., Clark Institutes of Health for re­Stephen Batill, associate pro­professor of biological search by Subhash Chandra fessor of aerospace and me­sciences. Basu, professor of chemistry, chanical engineering, and and Manju Basu, associate fac­Robert Nelson, professor of $5.000 from the University of ulty fellow in chemistry, on gly­aeorspace and mechanical Wisconsin for research by University for research by workshops by Mario Borelli, colipid metabolism in tumor engineering, on flow field mea­Karen Morris, chemical demon­Frederick Goetz Jr., associate associate professor of mathe­and transformed cells. surements on stranded cables. strator in the chemistry de­professor of biological matics. 
$39,840 from the Eli Lilly Co. partment, for the ICE chemistry sciences, on the North Central $125,368 from the National for research by Marvin Miller, supplements workshop. Regional Aquaculture Center. Awards for service programs Science Foundation for re­professor of chemistry, on Awards for instructional totaled $16,012 from private search by Walter Johnson, pro­methods for antibiotic synthe­$5,000 from the Institute for programs totaled $87,729, in­benefactors for programs of fessor of physics, and Jonathan sis. the Study of World Politics for cluding: the Institute for Pastoral and Sapirstein, associate professor $36,200 from the National a ISWP fellowship for 1989-$49,920 from the Lilly Social Ministry, the Center for of physics, on weak interactions Science Foundation for theoret­1990 for Chau Le, assistant vice Endowment Inc. for curriculum Social Concerns, and the Notre in heavy atoms. ical studies of branching ratios president for advanced studies, development in gender studies Dame Center for Pastoral 
in photodissociation by David and German Creamer, graduate by Joan Aldous, Denan profes­Liturgy. 
$125,000 from the National Tannor, assistant professor of student in economics. sor of sociology, and Kathleen Science Foundation for re­chemistry. $2,415 from the National Maas Weigert, associate pro­Awards for other programs search by Kerry Thomas, $35.000 from the McDonnell Institutes of Health for re­fessional specialist in the totaled $32,700 from the Ford Nieuwland professor of science Douglas Corp. for research by search by Morris Pollard, Center for Social Concerns. Foundation for doctoral and in chemistry, on reactions in Robert Nelson, professor of Coleman director of Lobund $37,809 from the Indiana postdoctoral fellowship pro­organized and constructed me­aerospace and mechanical Laboratory, on antibodies in Commission on Higher grams for minorities, adminis­dia. engineering, on strake/wing germ-free rats. Education for Inservice science tered by Nathan Hatch, vice 
$122,000 from the U.S. Dept. vortical interactions. , $850 from Michigan State and mathematics enrichment president for advanced studies. 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111~11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111; 
i APPALACHIA , /,,v-;'/'~ . i ! SEMINAR :;/1\ ,~~~lt: ~ ! 
I WORKING SIDE BY SIDE I
= 
+
American 
Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 

= 5 5

I OCT.22-0CT.27 1~------------------~ 
5 5
1 Information Night AN 1 




NOW!
I cENTE:::~il::u1:cERNS INSIDER'S I 
! LOOK ; 
WE HAVE
~ Aweek long visit to the mountains ~ 
5 of Kentucky to work side by OCT. 22 -OCT. 27 5 
i side with the people i
-Information Night ­
~ of Appalachia. i 

DELIVERY 
I= FALL BREAK CENn~::~:il::::~~four I5 
i_5 places open to travel i = to Washington D.C. and get an ~ i insider's look at policy and its consequences. i 
= =
i I
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 

Both seminars open to all students and are one theology credit. 
For information and applications contact the ~ Center for Social Concerns ~ 
= = State Road 23 and Ironwood
~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDDIIRDIUII,j ._______________________. 


page 4 The Observer Tuesday, September 12, 1989 
U.S. looks to Saudis for emergency oil reserves 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The Bush administration is pursuing talks with Saudi Arabia on leasing Saudi crude oil for the 
U.S. emergency oil stockpile, a government source disclosed Monday. 
Such leases would be expected to amount to a U.S. option to 
buy  the  Saudi  crude  in  an  
emergency.  
Leasing  would  be  a  major  

shift from the Energy Department's policy of buying oil for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Mexico currently sup­plies all the oil for the U.S. stockpile under a contract ex­piring Nov. 30. 
The main reason for leasing 
Flee 
continued from page 1 
after crossing into West Germany. 
It was the greatest flood of East German refugees since 1961, the year the Berlin Wall halted the flow to the West. 
Hungary's action marks the first time a Warsaw Pact coun­try has aided an exodus of refugees from an allied com­munist nation. East German leader~ expressed outrage at the Hungarian government, and state news media accused it of "organized smuggling of hu­mans." In Moscow, the Soviet news 
agency  Tass  condemned  
Western  media  for  what  it  
called  a  "tendentious  cam- 

China 
continued from page 1 
very crowded," said Qiang. 
According to Qiang, Guang Zhou is a city in South China and only a one-half hour plane flight from Hong Kong. He said he did not know what would happen to him at customs. 
The agents asked him ques­tions and had him fill out some forms. He told them he was taking a vacation. "Now as I look back I know I was ner­vous, but I somehow got in," said Qiang. 
Qiang realizes now how un­prepared he was to go back to China. For example, he said his clothes were not appropriate for the area he was visiting. Also, his accent had changed after three years in the United States. Qiang said he did not have any Chinese money with 
him either.  
Qiang  stated  that  at  this  
point in his trip he  was  very  
tired  and  needed sleep.  The  

train stations were closed, as there was a strike, said Qiang. He did not want people to know he was back from the U.S., yet his only identification was a passport which would show that he had just returned. 
Although he was very ner­vous, Qiang said he decided he had to find a place to sleep. He rented a hotel room and was able to watch a television broadcast. "The only news I could get was a government video that showed the govern­ment's version of the events." 
The following day, after fi­nally getting a night's sleep, Qiang realized he had to get some Chinese currency. He con­sidered going to the black mar­ket, but he feared being ar­rested before traveling to Bejing. 
Qiang decided to try to con­tact and old friend at a nearby university. According to Qiang, contacts in China are what caused his trip to be a success. 
would be to reduce the cost of filling the oil reserve. The gov­ernment currently is paying Mexico a market-based price for the roughly 60,000 barrels a day. In mid-August the price was $17.17 a barrel. 
Congress earlier this year ordered the Energy Department to study leasing and to assess interest among foreign suppli­ers. Congress earlier ordered the department to work toward a 750-million barrel reserve. 
The stockpile currently holds 575 million barrels of crude, about 73 days worth of im­ports, in underground salt cav­erns in Louisiana and Texas. It was created by Congress in 1975 in response to the 1973 Arab oil embargo led by Saudi 
paign" to spur illegal East German emigration. Tass also said that foreign West German diplomatic missions illegally protect East German refugees 
and  supply  them  with  West  
German documents.  
Several  hundred  East  

Germans, seeking safe passage to the West, are now holed up in West Germany's embassy in Prague, Czechoslovakia. 
It was not known how long the exodus of East Germans out of Hungary would last. News reports said the East Germans might restrict travel to Hungary in retaliation, but the government denied the re­ports. 
"I have this feeling that I have missed the last train to the West," a worried student in East Berlin told The Associated Press. 
Arabia. 
The interest of Saudi Arabia, 
No. 1 supplier of imported 
crude to the United States, was 
first expressed in a private 
meeting last Thursday between 
Saudi Oil Minister Hisham 
Nazer and Energy Secretary 
James Watkins, said the 
source, who spoke on condition 
of anonymity. 
"They're very interested," the source said, adding that leasing was the first subject raised by Nazer in the meeting at Energy Department headquarters. 
No details of a possible leas­ing deal were discussed, and Watkins told Nazer the next step could be a meeting of the two sides' technical experts, the source said. 
Penny Adams, a department spokeswoman, confirmed that the leasing idea was discussed in the meeting, but she declined to say whether the Saudis ex­pressed interest. 
"From the point of view of the United States it's an ex­traordinary good deal," he said in a telephone interview. "I can't see anything wrong with 
James Akins, who served as 
U.S. ambassador to Saudi Arabia from 1973 to 1976, said leasing appears to be a good move for the Bush administra­tion. 
it although I can't see any greater economic benefit for the Saudis." 
Leasing rather than buying additional oil could be cheape!, 
thus possibly allowing the ad­ministration to fill the reserve at a faster rate. Some critics have noted that because the na­tion is importing an increasing share of its daily crude re­quirements, the strategic re­serve's value as an emergency fallback is diminishing. 
At one point in 1985 the re­serve held the equivalent of 115 days worth of U.S. oil imports. Now it holds 73 days worth, even though the reserve itself has continued to grow. 

F~'"'Ora6nfsafetY' modifications §:osl§wto:::approach:::$290,000 per aircraft 
~Press !r;, liners estimated the modifica­
£%ilk tions would cost $.563 million 
WASHIN(l.TON ,,,,~The ,over the n~xt 20 years for the Feder a AvtaHon vvotldwide'fleet, an average of Administr ,..,..·.· . aid ~oday it $290,000 per aircraft. will order structural mocijlica-None of the work is urgent tions to ensure the saf¢ty of ..•..... and the airliners remain safe l,l53 i>~c.i~~ Mci)Qnp~U--:-A to.,. fly •. · sa4d Clyde Kizer, Douglas DC.•lO, oc..g, <Dc~s spokesman for the task force and MD-80 Jetliners flown by set up 14 months ago by the 
U.S. airlines. tn.< airline industry's Air 
The FAA announcement .. l'ranspor~ Association. came d11. . . a news ponfer~<wt•+The FAA, order covers only ence by a dustry~govern-U;S. planes over the next four ment task force that recom-years, with work required as mended work to increase the each airliner Jogs a set num­safety of.1.900 McDonnell-her of landings, and would Douglas airliners in service total $53 million, said Ray throughout the world. Ramakis, assistant FM direc-
The task force on aging air-tor for maintenance programs and flying standards. 
Industry officials said many 
of the changes already are be­
ing made at airline mainte­
nance bases and no disrup­
tions of service or fare in­
creases are expected as a re­
sult of the orders. 
Foreign airlines and regula­tory agencies generally adopt FM orders for U.S.-built air­craft. 
Ramakis said the FM would issue formal "airworthiness directives" within the next few days. They would become law after a period of several weeks for public comment. 

Illinois premarital AIDS test law repealed 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO-Gov. James Thompson on Monday signed legislation repealing lllinois' controversial premarital AIDS­testing requirement, the only law of its kind in the nation. 
Thompson announced his de­cision at O'Hare International Airport as he prepared to leave on a two-week European trade mission. 
"That wasn't an easy decision for me because I still think the issue of AIDS is extraordi­
nary," Thompson said before 
boarding his flight for Milan, 
Italy. "We did experiment with 
the law and I think the legisla­
ture was right in repealing it." 
By law, Thompson had until 
Sept. 18 to sign or veto the re­
peal measure, approved in June 
by the General Assembly. But 
aides said the governor planned 
to clear his desk of legislation 
before leaving Monday. 
The repeal measure, effective immediately, also eliminates a long-standing requirement that prospective spouses be tested for syphilis. 
Even before it took effect in 
January 1988, the premarital 
AIDS testing requirement was 
debated by advocates of strict 
measures against AIDS and 
public-health experts who said 
it spent precious resources on a 
low-risk group. 
Thompson said state officials found the premarital AIDS tests turned up far fewer posi­tive results among couples than expected. 
"It's pretty clear people were going to neighboring states" to get married, Thompson said. "What we were doing was in fact alienating people." 
By Monday, about 250,000 people had been tested and 52 had tested positive for exposure to the AIDS virus, said Tom Schafer, spokesman for the state Department of Public Health. 
The law required couples seeking a marriage license to show a doctor's certification that they had been tested for AIDS. 

The JEC/SWE proudly presents the 1989 ... 
Industry Day 
Register for the Industry Day Banquet September 20th, 1989 
Forms will be sent in the mail for this dinner with company representatives. ( Extra forms can be picked up in the Engineering Student Center) 
Registration is due by Sept. 14! Cancellation deadline is Sept. 15! 
$5.00 banquet deposit ( Returned after banquet) Return forms to ... Industry Day Box, in the Engineering Student Center 
APWORKS 


~---~~-----------------------------­

161 perish on Danube 
Associated Press ceived scant attention in com­
munist Romania's newspapers, 
VIENNA, Austria -As many with Romania Libera publishing as 161 people perished when a only a brief article on its last Romanian pleasure boat and a page. Bulgarian barge collided on the Diplomats at the U.S. Danube River, Yugoslavia's Embassy in Sofia, Bulgaria, Tanjug news agency reported said Bulgarian reports also Monday. were sketchy with no clear in­
Romania's official Agerpress formation on the number of ca­provided only sketchy informa­sualties, the cause of the acci­tion a day after the tragedy oc­dent and other details. curred Sunday on the Danube Agerpress, in a terse English­in Romanian territory. language dispatch monitored in 
State-run Tanjug in a dis­Vienna Sunday, said 182 people patch from Bucharest said, were aboard the Romanian "The Romanian ship, which ship. It gave no possible reason was carrying 169 passengers for the collision but said the and 10 crew members, sank so ship sank "in conditions of fast that only 18 people man­poor visibility." aged to survive." BTA said only, "There areca­
Tanjug said 161 people-all sualties." It said there were no Romanian citizens -died after reports of casualties aboard their ship collided with a the tug or barge or give the Bulgarian tug and barge towing number of crew members. iron ore from the Soviet Union It identified the Romanian near Galati, 125 miles vessel as the Mogosoaia and northeast of Bucharest, the the Bulgarian tug as the Peter Romanian capital. Karaminchev. 
Tanjug did not identify the sources for its information, in­The Agerpress account indi­cluding the report that all the cated 151 people on the victims were Romanians. A Romanian ship had died. It said British newspaper, The the ship had 169 passengers Independent, quoted Danube and a crew of 13 and that 18 shipping officials in Vienna as passengers were rescued. But it saying Sunday that some vic­was not clear if the 13 crew tims "were almost certainly members survived or perished. Western tourists." It said plea­sure cruises on the Danube are The report seemed to imply one of Romania's few sources that 18 passengers and 13 crew of hard currency. s~rv~ved, with 151 passengers 
It reported the tragedy re-mtssmg. 
-------~7----'--------------1
! K_I_L__.f'·fi.EA i 
I OLDS·NISSAN I 
: Celebrating our 1Oth Year Anniversary 1 1
I 1979-1989 I I LUBE & OIL 1 I CHANGE I
I I 
: $9.95 : 
I I
I MOST DOMESTIC & FOREIGN CARS I I DIESEL EXCLUDED I VALID ANYTIME I CALL FOR APPOINTM~:NT I 
I 2102 Uncolnway, West· Mishawaka, IN 46544 • 255-9644 I 
·------------------------­
t IRELAND PROGRAM t 
: INFORMATION SESSIONS : 
t NO SMC t
+ 
Tuesday Wednesday t

+ 
Sept. 12 Sept. 13 t

+ 
7 p.m. 7 p.m. t+ Montgomery 304 Haggar ++ Theatre ++ 1st Floor, + t Lafortune + 


t EVEIRYO!NlE WEILCOMEI t 
OFFICE OF 
0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
Eucharistic Ministry workshops are being held today in Stepan Center, at 2:30p.m. The workshop will take place again on Tuesday, September 12 in Stepan Center at 1O:OOp.m. All who were commissioned last fall, or are entering this ministry for the first time, are required to attend one of these workshops. 
a7fMa ~~~D;e~"o• ~<>~.(:a~~Q~ ~IQ than 28 years after the failed!::J~·'J•~~'V~-1ft:>~c0~~~~o""O•o•o<)a\5~·~· mission that haunted him, po­
lice and friends said Monday. 

i~ JUNIORS • JUNIORS • JUNIORS (J'Y 
Jose Alfredo Perez San 

Roman, 58, led the 1,500-man0~ BE AN INTEGRAL PART OF JUNIOR PARENTS ~~~ brigade of Cuban exiles in the ., WEEKEND! :, "' abortive assault on their island ¢,.~ homeland in April 1961. 
Defeated by troops of Fidel

~ APPLICATIONS FOR THE EXECUTIVE ~ 
Castro's communist govern­~~ COMMITTEE ARE NOW AVAILABLE IN THE ~ ment, more than 1,000 of them;i STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE ----> 3rd FLOOR •1) were imprisoned for nearly two 
years.

~ LaFORTUNE. <~ () 
San Roman, whose body was discovered at 9:20 a.m. Sunday

~t DEADLINE TO APPLY SEPT. 18th ;& at his mobile home, spent much of his own imprisonment in solitary confinement. 
~~ ANY QUESTIONS? CALL MARYANN x2855 ~; 
He reportedly had a history!ii~q~f¢~·-~;·~~·~o.~ ~:~u of depression in the years that
w~~m~~Q~I)~~.~~fje)l?~01t.: Q~ followed. 

The Observer/Matt Mitlino 

"Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame" 
The 1989-90 Irish cheerleaders practice their peppy routines for this weekend's approaching football game against Michigan: 
NO senate role investigated 
Molly Griffin, student business tonight at 8 pm in the Student
By PETER LOFTUS 
Staff Reporter board general manager, that Government Office for those in­
would establish a $45 per week terested in running for District 
salary for her position and a One Senator. District One in­
The formation of a new ad­$15 per week salary for the as­cludes the following dormito­
hoc committee and a proposal sistant general manager. ries: Alumni, Holy Cross, 
that would establish a salary Griffin stated in her proposal Keenan, Stanford, Lewis, Sorin, 
for the student business board that the salary is justified by Walsh, and Old College. The 
general manager were on the the amount of time and work election will be held on 
agenda at the Student Senate the position requires and also Tuesday, September 19th. 
meeting on Monday. the salary would be an incentive Sigi Loya announced plans The function of the seven­to attract more qualified people for a luggage service, called member Ad-Hoc Committee is to apply for the position. "Irish Express," which will be to investigate the role of the Although further debate and in operation for October Break. 
student senate in relation to a possible vote on the proposal The "Express" will serve 22 other student organizations will be held at next week's dorms, and will consist of and the Notre Dame community meeting, some members of the trucks picking up luggage at as a whole. The committee will Senate are already voicing con­designated points on campus determine what issues the cern. One key issue was the and taking them over to the Senate should be addressing. fact that the student business Main Circle. 
The committee will be chaired board general manager is a Loya also announced plans by Student Body President Matt member of the Senate, and for the Campus Outreach Breslin, and will include other none of the other Senate mem­Opportunity League (COOL) student government officers: bers receive salaries. Also, Conference, which will be held Chief of Staff John Hamill, , there was concern over whether at Notre Dame on October 6-8. Executive Assistant Melissa or not the profits generated by COOL is a nationwide coalition Smith, Student Union Board businesses such as the Cellar of organizations like the Center Manager Rafa Singh, District and Irish Gardens would be for Social Concerns, and the Four Senator Sigi Loya, former enough to cover the proposed conference will, among other Senator Mike Carrigan, and one salary. things, help other universities other member to be named In other business, it was an­establish centers for social later. nounced that a second informa­concerns. 
A proposal was made by tional meeting will be held Finally. it was announced 

that an "Off-Campus Information Night" will be held at Theodore's. It will be a fo­rum in which off-campus stu­dents can ask questions of the South Bend police, Notre Dame Security, and the Office of Student Affairs. 
Bay of Pigs commander dies at 58 
Associated Press 
MIAMI-The commander of the 1961 Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba was found dead at his home, a possible suicide, more 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, September 12, 1989

page 6 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor...... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............. Molly Killen VIewpoint Editor................... Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ........ Shannon Roach Sports Edltor....................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ............ Aiison Cocks Accent Editor............................ John Blasi Systems Manager .............. Mark Derwent Photo Edltor.............................. Eric Bailey OTS Dlrector................... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Edltor............... Christine Gill Controller............................. Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob­jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Friendship requires action when alcohol is abused 

How many times have you 

walked by somebody passed­
out at a party, shaking your 
head in disapproval or else with 
a mocking smile, never giving it 
more than that half thought? 
Many, I'm sure. I have. 
In general, we are unaware of 

how serious such cases may be. 
We know, of course, that people 
die by asphyxiation in their own 
vomit, that people's hearts stop 
beating because of an overdose 
of alcohol. that one's body can 
collapse in a drunken sleep. 
We hardly consider our friends likely candidates for that. We tend to take their case lightly and even to make it a laughing matter. But think about it: How would you like being told, the morning after you walked past him in the couch, that your friend was taken to the hospital, and his heart had stopped beating? 
Unfortunately, drunkenness is often a rite of passage in ours, and for that reason, most of us have at some time or another abused alcohol. Alcohol in moderation is not only not harmful, but it has an important place in any society. But the abuse of alcohol is dangerous. and we should not take it lightly. 
Alcoholism is a further aspect of the problem of alcohol abuse. It is not always easy to distinguish the heavy drinker from the alcoholic, especially in its early stages. But differently from the occasional heavy drinker, the alcoholic is victim of a disease. His drinking is no longer a matter of choice, even if he may tell himself it is. That is why the alcoholic needs help. 
There is a simple rule of thumb to identify the problem drinker or alcoholic: The alco­holic's drinking has become a problem which has begun to af­fect his life. 
The problem may be almost 
DOONESBURY 
imperceptible at the early 
stages. But if you find yourself 
getting drunk and getting into 
trouble and waking up the next 
morning feeling terrible about 
what you did last night and 
then doing it again... then you 
have a problem. It's that sim­
ple. If you notice this is happen­
ing to your roommate, chances 
are she needs to be told; and 
more often than not, she also 

needs to seek help. 
Many of us have seen the typ­

ical symptoms in our friends or 
acquaintances. Most of the time 
we choose to let things go. 
Most of us will deny there is a 
problem: the alcoholic because 
self-denial is part of the dis­
ease, the friends because deep 
down she doesn't want to get 
involved. 
But if your friend gets into a pattern of drinking, there is a problem. Don't ignore it, don't make jokes about it. By doing that you facilitate his drinking, and you become his accomplice. That is the worst thing you can do to your friend. 
We hear much criticism of the alcohol policy because it is im­practical, because it is too ex­treme, because it is counter­productive. Discussion is im­portant, but before we can dis­cuss it profitably, we need to become clearly aware of the problem it seeks to combat. Only after we have become more aware and only after our attitudes towards alcohol have begun to change will we be in a position to find a better way; not before. 
Victor J. Krebs is Assistant Rector of Grace Hall. graduate student in philosophy. and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
LETTERS 
Student involvement damaged by distrust and disgust 
Dear Editor: 
How many times have we heard student government rep­resentatives ask for om' help and declare that our input is essential to the making of a "success fu I" year? Undoubtedly, we have heard this plea ad nauseum. Why is that so? Is it that students do not know about the "wonderful" opportunities available in the student gov­ernment offices? Possibly. Or,more probably, it is that the students choose not to get in­volved? 
I want to relate an incident that will support the latter claim. 
I was approached by an indi­vidual "collecting" names for the Michigan lottery. He wanted to know if I was entering the lottery because, if not, he wanted to enter my name. Curiously, as I glanced over the list of approximately 25 names he had already gathered, I asked him how he could execute this plan. Are there not rules about how many names one can present? What about student ID's? He informed me, rather flatly, that it is "Who -you know." He said he knew an in­dividual involved in the lottery (this individual's name and function were withheld from me) who would let him register as many people as he wanted, all rules and restrictions waived, with one condition: that any tickets won beyond the agreed on number of two would be turned over to the unnamed lottery official. 
I can not necessarily blame my friend because he was cre­ative and enterprising, although I by no means exon­erate him or condone his ac­tions; but I do have a problem with the lottery official. (There are obvious ethical implica­tions, and a popular argument to interject here would be the ramifications of this act in light of the honor code and its spirit, but these are not my inten­tions.) 
Is it any wonder students have a sincere distaste for stu­dent government? Can the pre­sent administration now under­stand that apparent apathy is actually a vote of distrust and disgust? Student government is necessary, and although the demands put on those officials are great and the thanks few, they are not above the "average" students on this campus. 
Maybe these incidents have a sizable impact on student in­volvement (they undoubtedly have a monumental impact on student perception of campus government) and are worthy of reflection by those who run student government. 
It is not too late to right the wrongs of the ticket lottery; and although this action will be met by open hostility from lot­tery winners (some legiti­mate?), it will go a long way in establishing credibility for stu­dent government. Don't start off the school year with a fum­bled Michigan lottery. 
Joseph Meyer Carroll Hall Sept. 11, 1989 

Off-campus students confront unexpected problems 
Dear Editor: 
Every year approximately 20 percent of Notre Dame students choose to move off campus for a variety of reasons ranging from a desire for more independence to expectations of hosting their own parties. 
Unfortunately, these students often encounter more problems than originally expected. They often have expectations of fun and freedom off-campus, but soon find that there is more to off-campus living than the ten-keg parties. Most students know of the potential good times that can be had at off-campus parties, but it is the students who host these parties who have to deal with the con­sequences that arise because of them. Off-campus students have to deal with neighbor rela­tions and other issues because they are no longer just a Notre Dame student but also a mem­ber of the local community. This entails a certain responsi­bility. 
In an attempt to help the off­campus student be better pre­pared for dealing with prob­lems off-campus, the Office of Student Affairs, in cooperation with the South Bend police de­partment, is sponsoring an in­formational meeting for all in­terested off-campus students tonight at 7:00 in Theodore's. The meeting will be a chance for students to ask questions and to learn the positions of both the South Bend police and 
the Office of Student Affairs concerning off-campus stu­dents. Representatives of both organizations will be on hand to share information and to answer any questions that stu­dents may have. Topics such as neighbor and police relations, security and tenant-landlord relations will be discussed. All students living off-campus are 
encouraged  not  to  miss  this  
opportunity.  
Tom Helms  
Mike Locascio  

Michael Sullivan Off-Campus Commissioners Sept. 11. 1989 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
7HING5 AR£ 65TTIN6 fA.£U, I 8L.8/AJ 1UTAUY ()(ff OFCONTfi?Dl. n; OKAY~ THB AIWUNlJ H/31?.&! I CAN'T 
GI.IY'5 RCAUY 

G~ RV8 MINIITES a= 5TAI<T/NG 7D 
f£f IN MY File£/
PRiVACY/ '-...., -...--. 
._...,_._::.._! 
HON&Y? 

Pli!HeTIC-, IAJIJU, THAT'S 193S, FR/38­PARTIAUY t.OAOII-¥3 UTTLE BffCAU58 rweRPr roN'T IIJ/364V8 eerM/3 $11U1:T!JP.' 
H/5/?00M 7D HOf.J[;Y,,. 
I 
ANYTHING 
A/30UT 

H£'S
M&? 
'The most oppressed woman is 

I 
JU5T G&TTING 
the woman in every man.' 

5TAR:rf3iJ. 

Accent
Tuesday, September 12, 1989 
a e 7 


umphant glances of other cars you will travel if you are a se­as they left me behind in a nior citizen with seriously im­cloud of dust. Unfortunately, paired vision or if you are however, England's roads do sporting large red "L" plates on
I found I was not seem to be made for the your car." Traffic tickets are supposed to watch motorist. Many of them are ex­almost non-existent; in fact, I tremely narrow, and a chronic was once stopped by a cantan­
out for suicidal British 
shortage of parking lots and kerous police officer who main­pedestrians, who garages forces large numbers tained that 35 miles per hour 
of cars to park along the was too slow and that I hadwould probably stroll streets, reducing the roads to been using my brake too fre­out in front of a tank if one small lane. Driving along quently. 
them is fine until a car comes Needless to say, after a week
they felt the need to 
along in the opposite direction. of driving I had realized while cross the street. When it does the driver often the Americans view driving as a 
finds himself staring into the natural ability everyone ac­windshield of another car. This quires at 16, the British con­happened to me on several oc­sider it a skill acquired after 
casions, until I realized that I months of lessons and careful was actually supposed to weave practice. After my second week in and out of the various ob­of driving I overcame the feel­structions along the road in ing that a serious accident order to avoid playing would ensue if I moved another 
"chicken" with other drivers. inch and started to enjoy my­
While I was weaving, I found self. I was also supposed to watch It was then that I realized out for suicidal British pedes­that only one element stood be­trians, who would probably tween me and a driver's license: stroll out in front of a tank if the test. they felt the need to cross the In America, many people pass street. And, of course. I could the test, but barely know how not forget the "roundabouts"­to drive. In England, many peo­the British counterpart to the ple know how to drive, but can­circles found in Washington not pass the test. Many of my 
D.C. -which the British find so parents' friends, who moved to amusing they have them every­England after 20 years of driv­where the average American ing, failed it the first time. With 
roadworks committee might in­an examiner ready to automat­stead put an intersection. I ically fail an unlucky learner was less than enamored with for crossing his arms as he the concept of driving in circles turns the wheel, or for not
having to face life as a 
at breakneck speeds, but was looking in the rearview mirror
"Learner," I was told I would 
assured that with enough every eight seconds, my dispelled any illusions I had have to display white plates practice I too would come to chances, after a mere two ever had concerning the British with a bright red "L" on the
COCKS see the value of them. months, were slim to none.
people. front and back of my car to ad­I was supposed to do all this Hence, I have returned toI was wrong. There was still vertise this lowly status. In the­at ten miles above the speed America anxious to test my newone left. ory, upon glimpsing these that any sane, life-loving, de­skill but without a license toNo matter what criticisms plates, experienced drivers fensive driver would dare to prove it. My newest goal is toare said about the British peo­would treat me with extra care, contemplate. 
pass my test here, where theple, I have always maintained and be more tolerant of my To to it off. the speed limit roads and the drivers will facil­that no inhabitants of any steering errors. 

signs in England, instead of itate this aim, and then returnother country that I have ever of family and friends and In practice this is far from implying "this is the maximum to England at Christmas to ex­visited are able to equal the poured enough money into the the case. The "L," rather than speed one is allowed to travel act revenge upon all the cour­courtesy that the British people pockets of local cabdrivers for standing for Learner in the on this particular thorough­teous individuals who made myafford mere strangers. long enough. I'd been entitled to minds of other drivers. tends to f~re," imply, "this is the speed driving experiences so unfor­Whether you're a foreigner or a learn to drive since the age of denote "Loser" and brings out gettable.
fellow citizen you can expect to seventeen, and fmally decided the worst in them. I soon dis­enjoy polite, humane treatment that there was no better time covered a matter of pride for when you encounter the English than the present to avail myself all Brits: no matter how fast a on the street. of this privilege. car with an "L" plate is mov­
However, I was forced to Despite misgivings concerning ing, one is never caught behind amend this theory after this my ability to manipulate it. summer. The British are con­something as potentially lethal As a result, before I had even siderate of passing strangers as a car, I began my lessons. mastered right turns I had al­only if they do not happen to be The first thing I learned, even ready learned a great deal passing them in a motor vehi­before I discovered the where­about illegal passing maneu­cle. abouts of the brake, was that vers. 
This summer I determined I there was absolutely no hope If this had been all I'd had to would learn to learn to drive. for me to conceal my novice contend with, driving would After two years of college, I'd status from the outside world. have been no trouble -as I soon depended upon the philanthropy To add insult to the injury of became immune to the tri­
~ 
~------------~~~ 
Keeping an open mind--hardest assignment for students 
Take the time to fol­
STEPHANIE SNYDER couple of 'close' friends limits I may sound a little hypocriti­keep our hearts and minds accent writer your education, freedom, low up on all those cal, because I sometimes fmd open and not to get too caught laughter, and love. half-hearted myself acting close-minded to­up in the immediate friends and Do you upperclassmen miss Remember all the blind dog­ward accepting certain people work we have, although they 
promises to call him
the days of being lowly fresh­book dates you accepted and/or as friends, but Notre Dame is a may seem to dominate all our man? Probably not. Most of made? Even if all of them orher,dolunch,see family; from those who think it time, but to keep making new you sophomores, juniors, and weren't successful, you at least is just 'OK' to those who abso­friendships. If ever there is an
a movie, or just stop
seniors probably feel experi­met new people, experienced lutely love it, old NO ingrains ideal time and place to do this, enced as a Domer, even all­new personalities, and rubbed by. itself in your blood forever. it is here and now. powerful and all-knowing. You off a little of your own person­Take the time to follow up on know which lines to stand in, ality on others. No matter what My point, if you haven't al­I'm sure there are only a very all those half-hearted promises which professors are the easi­happened, you're guaranteed to ready figured it out, is that the few who don't feel that unity to call him or her, do lunch, see est, and what places to eat at look back and laugh and say, freshmen -dare I say this? -and indescribable warm feeling a movie, or just stop by. so as to avoid the food at the "Remember when... ?" may not have all the trivial ad­that creeps over you when, in I'll give everyone a small as­dining hall. Most of you have a Remember the 15 phone calls vantages of us upperclassmen, the middle of studying or walk­signment: try eating a meal in a car -the key to freedom -or a night you and your room­but they do take the cake when ing across campus, you hear different section or side of the at least one of your buddies mates received telling you to it comes to overall social intel­the band strike up the Fight dining hall with a different does, and, most of all, you have come to a party in this or that ligence. Song? That song is about unity group of people. Compare this a set peer group. dorm? The impossibility of re­When we limit our group of as well as victory; and inside assignment with the ten-page 
All of the above may seem ad­membering all the new names friends, we stunt our mental you know as you sing the pow­paper due next week and tell vantageous, and most of it is, and faces you encountered ev­growth and we miss out on a erful verses, that the rest of the me how hard mine seems. but freshman year should have ery weekend? The long list of lot of extremely interesting and campus is singing, too. Then, after both assignments taught you one thing. You "scopes" you kept mentally (to great people, whether funny or Father Malloy touched at the are completed, tell me which should realize how having only keep your options open, of brainy or somewhere in be­heart of· this issue at the Junior one really had any impact on a certain group, or even just a course)? tween. Class Mass. He reminded us to your life. 



--------~---­
The Observer Tuesday, September 12, 1989 

__,__:...
i..z:;:-~
Cubs down Expos 4-3 
• i
to widen NL East lead \ 
Associated Press keyed a three-run rally in the 
seventh inning as Pittsburgh, 

CHICAGO -Jerome Walton's playing the spoiler in the NL 
RBI single broke a seventh­East, defeated the St. Louis. 
inning tie and Mitch Williams The Cardinals' third straight 
picked off a runner at first for loss dropped them 3 1/2 games 
the final out as the first-place behind division-leading Chicago, 
Chicago Cubs edged Montreal the Cubs' largest margin since 
4-3 Monday. Aug. 18. Pittsburgh won its 
The loss, Montreal's seventh third in a row following two 
in 11 games, dropped the victories in New York. 
Expos five games behind the Heaton, 4-7, gave up only a 
Cubs in the NL East. Chicago bunt single to Ozzie Smith in 
has won three in a row and the fourth and a triple to Smith 
now leads St. Louis by 3 1/2 in the sixth. Heaton, who had 
games. been 1-7 with a 4.32 earned­
With two outs and two on in run average as a starter but 2­
the top of the ninth, Williams 
threw a ball to pinch-hitter 
0 and 1.96 as a reliever, walked

Nelson Santovenia, then two and struck out four.
bounced a pickoff throw to Rookie Stan Belinda allowedfirst baseman Lloyd McClendon, one hit in two innings and Dougwho tagged pinch-runner Jeff Bair finished for his first save.
Huson for the final out. It was 
Williams' 33rd save. 
Mets 5, Phillies 2

The Cubs broke a 3-3 tie in the seventh. Rick Wrona led off APP1101D 
Kevin McReynolds drove inwith a double and went to third 

The St. Lou!s Cardinal~ aren't laughing today after losing three straight games and dropping three-and-a-half 
four runs, including a three-runwhen Mark Langston's pickoff 

g~mes beht~d the Chtcago Cubs in the National League East penant race. The Cardinals fell 3-1 to the
homer in the first inning, andthrow was missed by second 

Pittsburgh P1rates. The Cubs widened their league lead by downing the Montreal Expos 4-3. 
the New York Mets started abaseman Damaso Garcia for an 10-game road trip by beating

error. After winning pitcher Orioles b, White Sox 3 Toronto, which was idle. Kansas City pulled to within Greg Maddux struck out, Philadelphia. Tettleton gave the Orioles a four games of idle first-place
The Mets, who are 28-40 on

Walton, who has hit safely in 2-0 lead with his 23rd home
Mickey Tettleton home­
the road, moved into third

45 of his last 49 games, run of the season, and first Oakland in the American
red in his first start since Aug.
place ahead of Montreal in the

singled, scoring Wrona. since Aug. 2, in the first inning. League West. 
4 and Cal Ripken also
National League East. New

Langston, 11-7, lost for the He went on the disabled Jist
connected, helping Jeff Ballard
York, which snapped a two­

fourth time in five starts. become the first American Aug. 5 for nearly a month. 
game losing streak, trails first­Maddux, 17-11, allowed six 

League pitcher to beat every
place Chicago by 4 1/2 games McWilliams was acquired in a
hits and three runs in 7 1-3 Royals 6, Twins 1
other team Monday night as the 
innings. with 19 games left. trade on Sept. 2 from
Baltimore Orioles defeated the
Ron Darling, 13-12, pitched 6 Philadelphia, where he was 2­
Larry McWilliams, making his Chicago White Sox. 
1-3 innings allowing five hits 11 and had not won since May
Pirates 3, Cardinals 1 Baltimore took advantage of first American League start,
and two runs. Randy Myers 13. The 35-year-old left­
allowed three hits in six innings 
two Chicago errors and a wild
pitched the final 1 2-3 innings bander, 1-0 with Kansas City,
Spot starter Neal Heaton pitch to win for the sixth time and broke a nine-game losing
for his 23rd save, allowing no walked none and struck out
gave up two hits in six innings streak as Kansas City beat
in nine games and pull within
hits. four.
and Barry Bonds' RBI double two games of AL East-leading Minnesota. 
The Observer accepts classif1eds every hus1ness day from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m a: ttu~ ~otre Dame office. 314 LaFortune. and from 12·30 until3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office: aggar College Center. Deadline for next· day class1f1eds IS 3 p.m All classif1eds must
Classifieds 
be prepaid. The charge IS 10 cents p'lr five characters per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING Pickup & Delivery 277·7406 
PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard 3 blks. from NO campus 233·2342 $$$ FOR YOUR BOOKS WE BUY AND SELL USED TEXTBOOKS 11111111111111111 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287·4082. 
Lost and Found 
Lost Gold HS class ring w/tiger on face 
& State Championship ring Both from Rock Springs High School Large reward offered x1861 
Lost· 
22k gold chain w/pendant on 9/5 on campus. Call Shyla Paul or lv. Message 283.3514 
I need USC tix Please My little brothers already bought their plane tix. If you have student or GA tickets call Sean@ 2011 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
WANTED ) 

ATIENTION: EXCELLENT INCOME FOR HOME ASSEMBLY WORK. INFO. CALL 504·646·1700 DEPT. P5868. 
~ '*1ng part lime .....tor UICI'IIInd dinner hours. ApfJy 2-!lpm at Oriental Expr­1321 University Commona .111111 -•oiUniY PM! Mill on 91-. ADM 23, nexiiD Ktog.r. 272..702 
IFORRENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219·291·7153. 
FOR SALE 

COLOR TV RENTALS 13-INCH, $50/SEM, $80/YR; 19·1NCH, $70/SEM, $120/YR; 25-INCH, $90/SEM, $160/YR CALL ANYTIME FOR FREE DELIVERY COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272­5959 
For Sale · 1980 Dodge Aspen $750. Grad student needs$. 272.9027 
For Sale: Neon Marlboro Sign Call 259 · 7630 after 6. p.m. 
ncKETS 
NEED 4 TIX FOR Ml STATE! 
PLEASE CALL #3803 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN 
STATE GAME. WILL PAY CASH 
OR EXCHANGE 2 GA'S FOR 
NAVY GAME. CALL TIM, 
FLANNER HALL EXT. 1143. 
NEED 2 USC & 2MICH ST. TIX PLEASEII X1058 
WANTED· "10" PITI·NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SAT. 10/28/89. PLEASE CALL PAT COLLECT AT (412) 372-3000. 
WANTED: 2 TICKETS TO EITHER ND·PITI OR NO-USC. ANY SECTION. TIM SOSNOWSKI X· 4043 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
DESPERATELY NEEDED­
MICHIGAN STATE TIXIIII 
NEED 3 STUDENT TIX AND 4 
GA'S. 

BIG MONEY BIG MONEYI!!I 
CALL JONPAUL AT X1603 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED 3 GA'S (PREFERABLY 
TOGETHER) FOR MICHIGAN 
STATE ..> CALL MIKE X1151 
Need 3 GA's & 1 stud 4 USC game. Will pay finder's fee. Call Dave 277·3687 
NEED 4 GAs AND 1 STU FOR MICH ST. WILL PAY$$$! x2966 
NEED 1 GA FOR MICH. ST PLEASEII!III MY UTILE SIS IS COMING OUT+ PARENTS WILL KILL ME IF SHE OOES'NT GO. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS OR TRADE TIX! CALL MATI #3489 
NEED UP TO 6 USC TICKETS. MONEY IS NO PROBLEM. CALL JIM AT X1236. 
Help educate my culturally repressed relatives from Wyoming by selling me 2 GA's to Mich ST. Cal x1859 
Will trade 2 Rolling Stones Tix 
(Cincinnati, Sept 14) for 2 USC 
GA's. 
Call Tim x3574 

Need 2 Tix for Mich ST. Have PITI & big$$. Call Jim x1653 
Need up to 4 Mich State. Good 
$$$ offered. Kevin 1663. 
How would you like to tailgate with the one and only John Fogerty of Creedence Clearwater Revival and Bruce Springsteen? Just sell them 3 GA's and 5 student tickets for Michigan State. Also needed are student tickets for all home 
games. 
Call Lisa 284 · 5326 
Help IIIII 
I need 2 GA's for the MICHIGAN 
STATE game (Sept 23). 
call Melissa at x4036 
$$$$$$$$$$$$ Need USC GA TIX CALL CHERI X2605 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
HELP! Need 2 Mich St. tixl 
$ x1308 
I fyou have Mich ST. Tix to sell 
calx1308 
........................ 
NEED 2 USC GA'SIIII 
PARENTS ARE COMING OUT 
FROM CA · PLEASE HELP ME 
OUT! 
KRISTEN X2702
........................ 
PERSONALS J 
HiAg ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF PRAYER AND JOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W, KOKOMO, IN 46901. 
Campus Hard Rock band seeks 
bassist. Experience a must. Call 
Glenn at X3064 or Vu at Xl809 . 
Happy Birthday Hannah Susanll And yes we know it was yesterday BB+Sophie 
To Gerber . Here's hoping that you hook up wrth the Beech Nut of your dreams. 
CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable atmosphere, daily & weekly specials, pool table, English darts, and great company. 234·3541 
TommyS., 
Where have you been the last three months? You have no idea how I pined away for you. I sat home and cried all summer. I hope we get together soon. Love, Col'n'Ter 

w  L  Pet.  GB  
Chicago  81  63  .563  - 
St. Louis  77  66  .538  3 1/2  
East Division  New York  76  67  .531  41/2  
Montreal  76  68  .528  5  
Pittsburgh  64  79  .448  161/2  
NATIONAL LEAGUE  Philadelphia  58  85  .406  22 1/2  
San Francisco  83  61  .576  - 
San Diego  77  67  .535  6  
West Division  Houston Cincinnati  76 70  68 74  .528 .486  7 13  
Los Angeles  68  76  .472  15  
Atlanta  56­ 88  .389  27  

~----~--------~--~--~------~ 
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Toronto  80  64  .556  
Baltimore  79  67  .541  2  
East Division  Milwaukee  73  72  .503  7 1/2  
Boston  70  73  .490  9 1/2  
New York  67  78  .462  13 1/2  
AMERICAN  LEAGUE  Cleveland  65  78  .455  141/2  
Oakland  87  56  .608  
Kansas City  83  60  .580  4  
West Division  California  82  61  .573  5  
Texas  73  69  .514  13 1/2  
Minnesota  71  72  .497  16  
Seattle  61  81  .430  25 1/2  


Sanders heralded for feats in pro football and baseball 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Deion Sanders kept a date with his playbook after his exciting NFL debut with the Atlanta Falcons. 
Although Sanders returned a punt 68 yards for a touchdown just four days after his last game with baseball's New York Yankees, the Falcons lost their opener 31-21 to the Los Angeles Rams on Sunday. 
Now Sanders, who signed a $4.5 million, four-year contract with the Falcons on Thursday, will get an opportunity to practice at cornerback for a full week before meeting the Dallas Cowboys. 
''I'm excited about my performance, but I'm gonna sleep with my playbook so I can learn the defense," said Sanders, an All-American cornerback at Florida State last season. 
Against the Rams, Sanders ran back his first punt 15 yards before his dazzling 68-yarder that had the crowd of 38,708 screaming. After that, the Rams decided to kick the ball away from Sanders or out of bounds. 
"I wasn't uptight. I wanted to get in there and make things happen," said Sanders, whose self-proclaimed nickname is "Prime Time." 
DeCicco declares fullback Spears ineligilbe for 1989 football season 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's reserve sophomore fullback Kenny Spears has been declared aca­demically ineligible for the 1989 football season. 
According to academic advi­sor, extra work done by Spears at the completion of his sum­mer course was not accepted by 
He showed he was not shy. When he raced out onto the field for the first time to field a punt, he raised his arms and led the fans in cheering. He continued the practice each time, getting the crowd emotionally charged. 
On the TD scamper, Sanders fumbled the punt, recovered it, was hit twice, circled back to his own 20-yard line before turning the corner and was hit two more times before breaking free at the Rams' 40. 
"I caught the line drive and a couple of guys missed me, and when I got out in the open it was Prime Time," Sanders said. "I said to myself, 'Boy, what have you done?"' 
The return impressed the Rams. 
"Yes, we were kicking away from him," Los Angeles Coach John Robinson said. "He has such a big impact on the crowd. I didn't want him to do it again." 
Asked if the Rams were intimidated, punter Dale Hatcher said: "Sure we were. He's good. There's no doubt about it. It's amazing. A couple of days ago he was playing baseball, and here he is running back a punt for a touchdown." 
the Dean of Colleges. 
Spears did not play as a freshman but was impressive in spring drills. He was moved from tailback to fullback in preseason practice and was ex­pected to boost the Irish depth at the position following the loss of Braxston Banks to a knee injury. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
ND TaeKwonDo will hold an orientation meeting from 8:30 to 10 p.m. Tuesday, Sept. 12, at the Joyce ACC fencing room. Beginners and advanced students are welcome. Call x1938 for more information. 
Track teams will have a mandatory meeting for any interested students at 4 p.m. Tuesday, Sept. 12, at Loftus. 
Rowing Club will have practice for novice members each day this week at 4:30 p.m. Meet at the main circle. 
Racquetball Club will hold a meeting for all interested players of all skill levels at 8:15 
p.m. on Wednesday, Sept. 13, in room 123 Niewland. Dues are $8. Call x2334 for more information. 
Belles' tennis stays undefeated 
By Heather Atkinson 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's Tennis Team began its season this past weekend in hopes of de­fending its second consecutive NAIA district championship. 
In a quadrangular meet with Wheaton College, University of Wisconsin and DePauw University, Saint Mary's was able to defeat all of its oppo­nents. 
On Friday, the Belles faced Wheaton College on the Notre Dame courts. They easily held back their competition with a score of 9-0. 
Returning lettermen, senior Jen Block, rallied from a deficit of 6-1 in a tiebreaker to win 1­6, 7-6, 10-8. 
Freshman Denise McDonald proved her ability to contribute to the championship team by coming back, having lost the first set, to win the next two with very consistent play, 3-6, 6-3, 6-2. 
Speed 
continued from page 12 
top cornerback at the collegiate level by The Sporting News; Terrell and Smagala were placed on College and Pro Football Newsweekly's presea­son first and second team. re­spectively. But can the highly 
PRE-LAW SOCIETY 
GENERAL MEETING: 
All Freshmen, Sophomores, and Juniors interested should attend the meeting on Tuesday, Sept. 12, at 6:30 in Cushing Auditorium. 
Dues will be collected and materials distributed. 
On Saturday, Saint Mary's was again victorious, this time defeating University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee 7-2. 
The number one doubles team of Block and Sarah Mayer had a strong comeback to de­feat the UWM team 6-3,3-6, 7­5. 
In the singles competition, intense effort and dedication enabled Saint Mary's to defeat UWM single-handedly. Number­two player, Mayer, won 6-2, 6­
0. Number-three player ,McDonald, triumphed 6-2, 6-0. The number-five seed defeated her opponent with scores of 6­3,6-3. 
Sweeping their final victory for the meet, Saint Mary's easily defeated DePauw , 8-1 later that day. 
Another outstanding match was turned in by Block as she rallied from a loss in the sec­ond set to play an intense third set and win 6-4, 7-6, 11-9. 
Freshman Natalie Kloepfer came back from having lost her 
touted secondary live up to their press? 
"They can't worry about that," said Heater. "All they can do is worry about today and today is practice. They can strive to be more consistent. Last year if we had any success it was because we improved from the first game up to the twelfth game. We could be out­standing but we can't stop where we are." 
Judo Club will practice from 8 to 10 p.m. Wednesday and 4 to 6 p.m. Sunday, in room 219 of Rockne Memorial. All beginners are welcome. 
Shorin-Ryu karate classes will be held from 4:30 to 6 p.m. Wednesday and Friday in room 219 of Rockne Memorial. All beginners are welcome. Call x4436 or 239-6100 for more information. 
Irish Outdoors will hold an organizational meeting at 7:30p.m. Thursday, Sept. 14, in the Notre Dame Room of Lafortune. Students with an interest in backpacking, canoeing, skiing and mountaineering should attend. Call 271­9901 for more information. 
SMC tennis singles league will hold an informational meeting at 4 p.m. Wednesday, 
first set to win the next straight sets 6-1, 6-4 in tiebreakers. 
On Sunday, Saint Mary's hosted the University of Evansville but were unable to continue their winning ways. 
Mayer and Kloepfer were both victorious in singles play.However, their teammates were unable to pull through. Block, McDonald and Ellen Mayer each played three sets, but could not get past the Evansville offensive. 
"All of the girls played very well, each giving 110 percent to the game," said coach Charlene Szajko. "The matches were much closer than the score books may indicate." 
Ellen Mayer was able to team up with Kloepfer as the number-three doubles, rallying from a first set loss to win the next two with scores of 6-4, 7­6,7-5. 
The Belles next match will be on Wednesday, Sept. 13 at Goshen College. 
Irish 
continued from page 12 
hand in the face of the hitters, we were digging the balls and setting up more balls for kills, so that's what we have to focus on." 
Lambert said that the lineup of Cunningham, White, Slosar, Choquette, Turner and Fiebelkorn-who was named to the Gonzaga Invitational All­Tournament team for her strong performance-was the most promising. 
But, and Lambert stresses the 
but, nothing is set in stone as the 
Irish prepare for this weekend's 
Notre Dame Invitational. 
Traditional powerhouses 
Pacific and Western Michigan and 
Pittsburgh, who is already 6-1, will 
help the Irish usher in their home 
season this weekend. 


page 10 The Observer Tuesday, September 12, 1989 
SMC opens 1989 soccer season 
Belles post unblemished 3-0 record in earlygoing 
BY HEATHER ATKINSON Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

The Saint Mary's soccer team began what looks to be a successful season with its season opener last Wednesday at Western Michigan University. 
The Belles took an early lead, dominating the first half. Trish Troester made the first goal, which put the Belles ahead 1-0 at the half. 
Caroline Knoll rallied at the beginning of the second half to give Saint Mary's their second goal. 
Kelly Cook was able to contribute two of the 24 shots on goals made by Saint Mary's. 
Western Michigan was only able to score two goals on goalie Mary Barger, who had five goalie saves for the game. 
Anne Hartzel was able to score the final Saint Mary's point off of a corner kick allowing the Belles to defeat their competition with a final score of S-2. 
Rivalries 
continued from page 12 

Illinois Cycling Club: This game is an exception to the rules because the teams have met just once, an 18-2 Notre Dame victory in 1895. They will play the Irish under the condition that players from both teams must ride bicycles during the game. 
Chicago Physicians and Surgeons: This is the season­ending contest because Holtz feels the opponents can cure all of the wounds the Irish endure in the first five punishing games. The Irish lead the series 7-2 and won the last game 88­0. 
And the bowl opponent? Either Missouri Osteopaths, South Bend A.C. or Englewood High School in Chicago, whichever has the best-or maybe the worst-record. 
Rllllll)I'S 
.U'l' sprl'aliing t.btl'l' th,Ul .\IDS. 
For rhe facts call your io<al Red Cross. or wnre 
AIDS 
+
Ammcan Red Cross ~::'!':: 
\\llslungton. DC 20006 
"This is a great start for our first game," said Head Coach Tom Van Meter. "Even though we made mistakes, I felt that we overcame them and learned from these mistakes. I am extremely pleased with the team because of the support while we played." 
In the Saint Mary's College soccer tournament this past weekend, the Belles dominated both games, never allowing their competition to score. They shut out Bowling Green State University 2-0. 
Kathy Revane scored the first goal on an assist by Trish Troester. Caroline Knoll scored the second goal of the team's 25 shots on the goal. Goalie Mary Barger had another outstanding game with 12 saves. 
"It was a positive game for us," said player Kelly Cook. "The game was a stepping stone to show that we are playing up to our fullest potential as a team." 

On Sunday, Saint Mary's faced Indiana University at South Bend and once again controlled their competition with a final score of 4-0. 
Trish Troester-once again proved her importance on the team by scoring the first goal on an assist from Kelly Cook. 
Terese Martinov rallied to score a goal on a penalty kick to give the Belles a 2-0 advantage. 
Greer Gilliland assisted the third goal shot made by Kelly Fraleigh. Nancy Haske kicked in the final, winning point, one of 26 shots on the goal. !USB was able to only get off one shot on the Saint Mary's goal. 
"We are coming together as a whole team, " said player Martinov. "Offensively and defensively we dominated !USB the entire game. As a team, we feel we are improving drastically every game." 
The team will attempt to defend their perfect 3-0 record at Tri-State College on Wednesday, Sept.13. 
SEE [>rCk Dt~D 


Don't drink and drive 
A public service message from The Observer 
~ir Richard's  
HAIR DESIGNS  ~  ~  
277-0734  ~  
Men & Women's Cuts, Perms, Styles  ~  ~  
417 DlxleWay North (Roseland)  ~-­ ~  
~  South Bend, IN 46637  '  1  
25% off Nexus, ThermaFuse  •  

__, 
~ 

a-. I 
&Paul Mitchel Products with this coupon • 
.... __ 

Sailing, rowing, rugby clubs get off to a flying start 
The weather on Sunday was perfect for the Sailing Club to have its first major regatta of the year . Notre Dame hosted the 14-team Notre Dame Intersectional on Diamond Lake (Mich.). The competition included Big Ten schools Michigan, Wisconsin, Purdue, Iowa, and Michigan State. Marquette, Ohio Wesleyan, and out of district St. Mary's (Ma.) also com­peted in the event. The Irish finished eighth overall. 
Mike Kamradt Club Corner 
" It's a real challenge to host and sail well, but we feel it's a positive start," said club president Paige Cooper. The 
club  will  have  a  chance  to  improve  this  weekend  as  they  
send  teams  to  Kent  State,  Lake Forest College,  and  the  
University  of Iowa.  

The football game won't be the only Notre Dame vs.. Michigan battle this weekend. The Rugby Club will take on the Wolverines in Ann Arbor Saturday at 11:00 at Mitchell Field (next to North Campus). What better way to get pumped up for the football game than by watching another body crunching sport? The Rugby Club will take three sides to Michigan. 
After two weeks of two mile runs back and forth to the boathouse and six-to-ten miles of rowing a day, the Rowing Club will have its first regatta in Chicago this weekend. The team will compete against squads from University of Chicago, Northwestern, and Loyola. According to club president Brian Lapps, the outlook for this race and the season is promising. 

WE DELIVER 
1 Block East of Eddy on South Bend Avenue 232 -TIPS OPEN Tues.·· Sun. at 3 p.m. 
A TIIEmJI(Q)N JFIHI(Q)1r(Q)CGMIFIHIIE~§ 
Mandatory Observer Photo Meeting Tonight 7pm at The Observer office (3rd Floor LaFortune) 
All interested students welcome 

b\W®[fi)U~©[fi) @Wc©®ITiJTI[p)lYl® ®UlYl©l®ITiJU®~ ~ Are you worried about 
-crime? -assaults? -gangs? -party problems? 
Then attend a meeting TUESDAY, SEPT. 12, 7:00p.m. at Theodore's Representatives from N.D. Security, South Bend Police, and the Office Of Student Affairs will be on hand to answer any questions you may have . 
~~@@®@ ~Uit®[ft)@J ~ 
sponsored by N.D. Security, Student Government, and Office of Student Affairs 

The Observer page 11 
CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 
COMICS 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


BUZZ MC FLATTOF MICHAEL F. MULDOON 

• IIIDIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIUIIIUIIIIIIINIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIII 
~  The following numbers win the right to  purchase TWO Michigan  football  tickets:  
§! §  647346 650219 649919  650474 650821 649256  650586 649347 649090  650581 650621 649577  650434 650444 649943  650578 650394 650452  650560 649833 650716  Come to the SUB office on Tuesday, Sept. 12 between 1:00pm-5:00pm to purchase tickets. Each winner must personally present ID. Unclaimed tickets will be sold  
~ ! ~ ~  650666 647192 647095 649387  650505 649245 650703 649017  649836 647370 649621 647617  649876· 650762 647599 650800  650498 647481 650761 647577  649480 650209 649316 649214  650123 650081 647208 649212  Tues. between 5-6pm to the following numbers: 649522 649095 649698 650760 649165 649977 647416 647462 650357 649923  
~  650841  649570  647580  647212  649267  650727  649353  

7:00 pm, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Lecture ­Representatives from Air Products & Chemicals. Mead Data Central, NASA Lewis Research Center. Engineering Placement Night. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
CtQIIOChronk:leFMtu... 
Dlatrlbu~ by Untv.f'l&l Pr-. Syndl<:.&ts 


"So then Carl says to me, 'Look ... Let's invite over the new neighbors and check 'em out.'" 
ACROSS 24 Perry's royal 46 Turgenev's creator? birthplace
1 Home of the 26 Tingly, prickly 47 Choice

Dolphins sensation 48A New
6 Further a felony Zealander

1oStag or cob 32 Yields, as land 51 Dada, e.g. 
14 Prominent 33 Bark 52 U.S.N mansettler in 34 Future benedict's 55 The whole'sPlymouth words? small section 15 Pointer 9n a roof 35 "I cannot tell 59 Fam. member 
16 Controversial pesticide so Lacerate 11 Hamlet's 36 Union general 61 Croc's cousin 
weapons of 38 Post 62 Fish dish "outrageous 
39 Sometime traffic 63 Little colonists 
fortune" sign 64 Livre toter, at 20 Asian holiday times
40 Ganges garb 
21 Ingenue, e.g. 22 One of the 

41 Part of a Dante Horae 
work DOWN 23 Antitoxin Comb. 42 Fiercely or 
1 Spar form wholeheartedly 

2"Winnie­Pu" 

3 Mine entrance 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 4 Chess pieces 5 Entry 6 Singer Frankie 1 Cause of harm 8 Terminate 9 Hyson or 
souchong 10 Damaged ~7+.==-loill ~:+7-1-:-+::::-fii!IIIF-i -....=:~~ 11 Medicinal plant 
-=+'=+=-+'-'-~~oiio ~~.=:.+;;..! 12 Scene of some parties 
..:::+~+=1~::.pll!l,;;: 18 Rail .;;,+=+:"+=-+=:-~ 19 Vexed -=+:~:+.::-t:-1 23 Dirk of yore -:+.=+::+.:-R 24 Site of Phillips 
University 


~~~tE)~~· 13 Gaelic 

25M. Coty  36 Foal producer  49 Early Irish  
26 Alexander's  37 Of an epoch  nobleman  
birthplace 27 Jargon 28 Sap 29 Tael 30Workson  38 Leonine locks 40 Letter stroke 41 Retinue 43 Foolish ones, aIa Rickles  50 Hyalite or geyserite 51 Penny 52 Whale 53 Ont. or Que  
galleys  44 Celtic priests  54 Bugaboo  
31 Alone  45 Agalite  56 Refrain syllable  
32 One kind of  48 Lien of a sort  57 Partie!  
register  Abbr.  58--masque  

i  650056  649864  649034  649274  647244  647021  650030  
~ i  650504  650341  649981 649796 650353 649003 650175  649236  647536  
!==_==  ATTENTION: ALL STUDENTS OWNING THE MICHIGAN ROADTRIP  
PACKAGE: Reimbursements for the hotel portion of package will be  


i==­given Tues.,Sept.12, through Fri.,Sept.15, (12-4pm) in the Student STUDENT UNION BOARD Body's Treasurer's office-2nd floor LaFortune. 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIDHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHHUIIHHIHIIIIIIIIIIIHIHIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJII....._.JIIIIIIIIIIIUUD...UIIDIIOIWWUIIHHIIItlnmn 
Sports 
Tuesday, September 12, 1989
a e 12 

Irish volleyball optimistic despite slow start at Gonzaga 
By Molly Mahoney squad's performance. "We would 
Sports Writer have liked to done better, but we expected to come out and have to juggle the lineups and do some 
The West Coast has experimenting before we became 
traditionally borne rich fruits for a good team. those brave enough to migrate Cunningham was the only player westward in search of opportunity. exerting her presence at the net 
And for the Notre Dame defensively, tallying eight total volleyball team, which spent last blocks against Portland and weekend in Spokane, Wash. "I'm not discouraged by the trying to reap its share of these tournament because I'm pleased 
fruits, the West Coast gave the with a lot of things that I saw and I Irish a lot of food for thought­got a good look at the things we even if some of it was hard to need to work on. So we'll learn swallow. from the losses. • 
The Irish stand at 1-3 after a Notre Dame came out of the 
shaking performance in last starting blocks fast, sweeping weekend's Gonzaga Invitational, Montana in three games Friday but they will be taking the lessons afternoon, 15-13, 15-6 and 15-1 0 learned onto their homecourt this behind the powerful armswing of weekend when they host the Notre freshmen Alicia Turner and Dame Invitational. Jessica Fiebelkorn. 
"We learned a lot about our Turner and Fiebelkorn team this weekend," Irish head unleashed their offensive arsenal coach Art Lambert said of his in their first colleqiate game, 
Talented secondary takes the field for Irish 
tackles, 18 interceptions and

BY BOB MITCHELL 
three touchdowns. However all

Sports Writer 
is not perfect in the Irish sec­ondary. D'Juan Francisco is When one thinks of that glo­still adjusting to his move from rious football season once re­cornerback to strong safety moved. it is inevitable that two with the departure of George highlights burst into one's Streeter. And free safety Pat mind. Who can forget free Terrell has added responsibility safety Pat Terrell's 60-yard this year calling out the cover­touchdown dash against Miami ages. and cornerback Stan Smagala's "()'Juan is doing very well, he 64-yard touchdown intercep­is a very smart player," said tion in the golden Coliseum? Heater. "His position is differ­ent than Streeter but he pos­And the best part about those sesses great speed which is nice vivid nashbacks is that the two to have at that position." catalysts involved are back to defend the national title. They Ah, speed, speed and more are not the only ones. speed. It was just a matter of Cornerback Todd Lyght and time before that word was fifth-year senior D'Juan mentioned, but a characteristic Francisco help form one of the that is vital for the secondary. top secondaries in collegiate Cornerback Stan Smagala football. ,Terrell and Francisco ran a blistering 4.35 in the forty last "It is a very nice situation," spring, while Lyght clocked in said secondary coach Chuck at 4.4. Heater. "The most important thing in the secondary is expe­
"One of our strengths is that

rience. They have all been there in the big games." we run well,"said Heater. "This 
For the Irish in their na­allows us to prevent the long tional-championship campaign, run from occurring. We are the secondary racked up 211 trying to become a dominant 
devastating duo in the Portland definite lineup that will work well 
match as well, as Turner smashed together. Then I think we'll be a 18 kills and Fiebelkorn added 12. dangerous team." Senior captain Kathy Lambert used a tandem of adding 19 digs to the 10 she setters-junior Amy White and accumulated against Montana. senior Taryn Collins-throughout 
The Irish could not get back on the tournament and looked to the winning track Saturday as sophomores Jennifer Slosar and they fell to Idaho, 8-15, 15-4, 5-15 Christine Choquette at the middle and 7-15 and the tournament's hitting spot . eventual winner, Gonzaga, 15-12, Collins finished the tournament 4-15,3-15 and 12-15. with 67 assists, while White was 
Lambert cites inexperience in just off that pace with 63 assists. the setting and middle blocking "We tried to vary the ranks as the main reason the team setters because each has has stumbled in the earlygoing. different strengths," Lambert 

"Overall I'm pleased with the said. "I've always said that
Jessica Fiebelkorn 

progress the team made during volleyball is the ultimate team tallying 13 kills a piece. the tournament, • Lambert said. sport and until we can find a The Irish were unable to "But we are still very lineup that works well together 
maintain momentum going into the inexperienced in the setting and and can get sane blockers up evening match against Portland middle areas and that's going to in the middle, ()IJ.1l" play is going falling in a tough four-game hurt us. to suffer. 
match, 10-15,7-15,15-11 and 15-"I'd like to make it to the middle "When we were able to get a 
17. of the season relatively 
see IRISH! page 9Turner and Fiebelkorn were a unscathed and with a more 


D"juan Francisco (32) and Todd Lyght (1) will combine forces again this year in Notre Dame's deadly secondary corps. The secondary was a key part of last year's devastating defense and the Irish will depend on its speed and experience if they harbor hopes of another national championship. 
part of the team everyday."  ent  backing  up  the  corners.  ent abilities and they will all do  
One thing that may be holding  Sophomore  Rod  Smith  has  great and can contribute to the  
the Irish back from surpassing  emerged  as  the third  corner­ team."  
last year's secondary is the lack  back  as Greg Davis and George  
of depth. With the graduation  Poorman  have  moved  them­ On paper, the Irish have the  
of Streeter and Corny Southall,  selves up to the second unit.  horses to be an excellent sec­ 
the Irish coaching staff decided  "I  am  comfortable with any  ondary.  Lyght  was  rated the  
to move Francisco to strong safety leaving little proven tal­ of those seven players," said Heater. "They all posses differ- see SPEED/ page 9  

Irish may face some new adversaries next fall 
The college football media guide-Notre Dame's in particular-has just about everything you would want to know, many things you couldn't care less to know and some things you wonder how anybody could know to begin with. 
First, some examples. Frank Leahy always called his players his "lads." The Four Horsemen rushed a total of 939 times for 5,188 yards. The New York Times Computer ranked Notre Dame 12th in 1980. 
Behind his back people say Chris Zorich is "fat as a cow." Rod Smith's nickname is "Professor Griff." Tim Grunhard's greatest moment was cliff diving in Arkansas. If Ned Bolcar was on a desert island, he would want "a full assortment of video tapes and a jar of lard and a fishing pole." The list could go on and on. 
My favorite section is the one with the results of every Irish game against every opponent. Some observations: 
Teams that have never beaten Notre Dame after playing at least three games include Alma (combined scores in four games of 196-0), American Medical College (combined scores of 362-0 in five games), Beloit, Boston College, California, DePauw, Drake and Franklin. 
Also, Haskell, Hillsdale, Kalamazoo (318-0 in seven games), Lake Forest, Marquette (three ties in six games), Minnesota, Ohio Medical University, 

Greg Guffey 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Ohio Northern, Olivet, Pennsylvania, Rice, Rose Poly, Rush Medical, St. Louis, St. Viator (116-7 in 1912), South Dakota and Tulane. 
On the flip side, the only teams Notre Dame has played and never beaten include Chicago (0-4), Florida State (0-1), Georgia, Indianapolis Artillery (0-1, an 18-0 loss in 1895) and Yale (0-1, a 28-0 loss in 1914). 
While looking at all of the lost rivalries, like Highland Views (82-0 win in 1896) and Coe (28-7 victory in 1927), the Notre Dame Athletic Department decided to do something unique for the 1990 schedule. 
Forget Michigan and Miami. The schedule for next year will bring back those rivalries of old. The Irish will play teams which they have played at least twice or teams which have beaten them at least once. The two teams must not have played in the past 40 years. With that in mind, here's the 1990 schedule (Dates and kickoff times to be announced by television). 
At Albion: It's always tough to open against Albion on the road, but Lou Holtz wants to see how the Irish react in a tough opener for a change. The last meeting was in 1898, a 60-0 victory for the Irish. 
Great Lakes: The game is already a general admission sellout at NotreDame Stadium, and some idiots over at Pangborn are already camping out for tickets. Great Lakes holds a 2-1-2 advantage in the series, winning the last contest 39-7 in 1945. 
Knox: This is the rubber game, with the series tied at 1-1. Notre Dame has the momentum after winning 22-4 in 1907. 
At Wabash: Wabash feels it has a distinct advantage going into this contest despite having dropped 10 of the 11 games in the series. Since their school is male only, the Wabash players say they can concentrate solely on football without the distractions of females. Irish players say the Wabash students must never have visited Notre Dame. 
Olivet: Notre Dame has won the past three games, but Olivet is threatening to bring its mascots­Popeye, Brutus and Sweet Pea. 
see RIVALRIES/ page 10 




