
VOL. XXIII NO. 33 WEDNESDAY , OCTOBER 11, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Panama coup forces seek safety in U.S. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Some of the military forces involved in the failed coup attempt in Panama have been flown by the United States to safety in Miami and invited to seek political asylum, the Bush administration said Tuesday. 
The State Department said 42 Panamanians had been admit­ted on humanitarian grounds. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the group in­cluded "coup members and their families." 
The group is believed to in­clude Adela Bonilla Giroldi, widow of the coup leader, Maj. Moises Giroldi. She was accom­panied by members of her fam­ily. 
Capt. Javier Licona, believed to be the highest-ranking par­ticipant in the coup to escape capture, also was reported to be in the United States. 
Citing concerns for their safety, Fitzwater refused to identify any of the refugees. He said the mere publishing of their pictures in a newspaper might result in their deaths. 
"The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service is pre­pared to review applications for political asylum if such re­quests are made," State De­partment spokeswoman Mar­garet Tutwiler said. 
She said the Panamanians are being received by the U.S. Catholic Conference, which pro­vides assistance to refugees and people given asylum. U.S. officials in Miami are debriefing them. 
Meanwhile. the Pentagon said there had been dissension and confusion among the coup leaders and an argument about what to do with Panamanian ruler Manuel Antonio Noriega, who survived the uprising. 
Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams said it was clear that coup leader Giroldi "had no in­tention, ever," of turning Nor­iega over to the United States. 
However, Williams said an unnamed officer taking part in the coup insisted that Noriega should be given to the United States and argued with Giroldi about it. 
Williams said the officer eventually gave up the dispute and left the military headquar­ters, never to return, because he feared that Noriega would or had become aware of his opinions. 
Williams said the officer was among those who met later with U.S. Maj. Gen. Marc Cis­neros, the second in command of U.S. forces in the area. Williams said he could not say whether that officer made clear to Cisneros that there was a dissident faction among the Panamanian officers that wanted to turn Noriega over. 
The spokesman said it isn't clear to what extent the people claiming to hold Noriega for several hours really had him under their control. 
"You have someone who was one of the coup plotters saying, 'Well, we ought to turn Noriega over to the United States. He doesn't prevail, and he leaves. And he communicates (to the United States) that the people holding Gen. Noriega still have no intention of turning him over to the United States," Williams said. 
"There was never a request for us to come and get him, they never offered him to us," The spokesman said. 
Meanwhile, Fitzwater ac­knowledged at the White House that he had erred last week by saying U.S. troops were de­ployed in Panama at two key points merely to safeguard Americans and to protect the Panama Canal. In fact, the United States had been asked by the rebels to station the forces to block reinforcements for Noriega. 
Fitzwater said he had not been aware of the actual facts when he made his original statement. Likewise, Fitzwater also had said the United States had only third-party contact with the rebels before the coup, when in fact U.S. officials were in touch directly with Giroldi. 
Nevertheless, Fitzwater de­fended the administration's handling of the matter. 

Foreign tourists queueing up East German border registration office at Checkpoint Charlie on Monday to get a tourist visa for visiting East Berlin. 
E. Germany may loosen stance 
Associated Press 
BERLIN -Communist officials met opposition leaders in Dresden and talks were expected soon in Leipzig in the first sign of a shift in the East German government's hard-line stance, news reports said Tuesday. 
Prominent Lutheran offi­cial Hans Otto Furian meanwhile said in East Berlin that the Communist Party "must give up its grip on total power." 
Also in East Berlin, pro­democracy activists said at least 500 protesters ar­rested in Dresden were freed the past two days. The activists, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said those freed were among about 1,000 people arrested in Dresden during demonstrations last week and over the weekend. 
The activists did not say if any of the demonstrators faced charges. Officials in Dresden have said all demonstrators not involved in violence will be released. 
Some Communist Party officials showed increasing signs of willingness Tues­day to talk with pro­democracy activists. But East German leader Erich Honecker reiterated his hard-line position. 
Conflicting reports also emerged on Tuesday as to whether the Lutheran Church had taken up a dia­logue with the central gov­
ernment  or  whether  the  
contacts  rem ained  on  the  
local level.  

West Germany's ZDF television network, quoting high-level church sources, said talks about the unrest "had begun with central of­fices" in the East German government. It did not elaborate or identify the participants. 
ZDF said talks between local Communist leaders in Leipzig and pro-democracy 
activists also are set to be­gin. It gave no timetable. Talks between Commu­
nist officials and opposition activists already have been held in Dresden. 
Communist officials in Dresden first met with op­position leaders on Mon­day. Mayor Wolfgang Berghofer said another meeting was scheduled for next week. 
The 77 -year-old Honecker has given no indication he is about to change his hard-line ways. 
In a meeting Monday with Chinese Vice Prime Minister Yao Yilin, Honecker re­peated allegations that Western "imperialists" are poised to threaten his country. 
Honecker and Yao re­called the events of June in Beijing, when troops crushed a pro-democracy movement. 
"In this respect, there is a fundamental lesson to be learned from the counter­revolutionary revolt in Bei­jing and the present 
see TALKS I page 4 
APPhoto 
S. Africa to release 5 prisoners in 'spirit of reconciliaton' 
Associated Press home on the Victor Verster release is not an issue at this On Wednesday, ·De Klerk is to conducive to negotiation.
prison farm north of Cape stage." Saloojee added: "His meet in Pretoria with three of "If we do not get a clear indi­
JOHANNESBURG, South Town when the releases were deepest concern is that all the the most prominent black cation of what Mr. de Klerk is Africa -Five other African announced on state television. other comrades be released." South African clergymen: An­going to do, and his aim is justNational Congress leaders "Mr. Mandela said he would The releases had been ex­glican Archbishop Desmond to release leaders to come and 
jailed 25 years ago with Nelson greatly enjoy his sleep tonight pected as ammunition for Tutu; the Rev. Allan Boesak, live in an apartheid society,Mandela will be freed uncondi­after all his efforts to secure Prime Minister Margaret president of the World Alliance then we will continue calling for 
tionally soon, but Mandela will their release," Morobe said, Thatcher of Britain to use at of Reformed Churches, and the sanctions in this country."remain in prison, President F. and quoted Mandela as saying the forthcoming Commonwealth Rev. Frank Chikane, general Chikane said he understood 
W. de Klerk said Tuesday. to South Africans: "The people summit against imposing secretary of the South African Mandela's position "that his 
They are among eight aging, are going to be greatly endowed further economic sanctions on Council of Churches. release is not the critical thing.longtime prisoners de Klerk by the leadership who are South Africa. The summit, in They have said they want to His release without a packagesaid would be released to coming out of jail." Malaysia, begins Oct. 18. establish before the Common­to end the apartheid system"contribute to the spirit of rec­Morobe and a few other black De Klerk acknowledged the wealth conference whether de would be meaningless. I under­onciliation which is presently anti-apartheid leaders were at decision was "taken against the Klerk "is serious about dis­stand him to be saying his re­evident in our country." the Mandela house, including background of requests and mantling apartheid and enter­lease cannot be a substitute for 
He said Mandela, regarded by Albertina Sisulu, wife of Man­representations from various ing negotiations to bring about the freedom of the people." many black South Africans as deJa's close friend and ANC col­sources over a long period." He a truly democratic South De Klerk said the men would their leader, was told of the league, 77-year-old Walter said the views of moderate 
Africa." be freed "as soon as the neces­proposed releases in advance. Sisulu. They held an impromptu blacks, including leaders of After the release announce­sary formalities can be dealt Murphy Morobe, spokesman two-hour party until 10 p.m. tribal homelands whom the ment was broadcast, Chikane with, which can take some for the banned United Demo­Cassim Saloojee, a member of African National Congress re­said: "This was one item. The time." A prison official said 
cratic Front anti-apartheid al­the group, read a statement jects, had "carried special greater part of the agenda has liance, was with Mandela at his from Mandela, 71, saying "My weight." to do with creating a climate see PRISONERS I page 4 

page 2 The Observer Wednesday, October 11, 1989 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
The Supreme Court turned away free-speech arguments Tuesday and allowed the use of a federal racketeering law against 26 anti-abortion protesters in Philadelphia.The court let stand a successful lawsuit against the protesters by the operators of an abortion clinic in that city. The litigation strategy has proved troubling to some abortion rights advocates, who fear that politi­cal protesters will be labeled "racketeers" and held financially li­able for nothing more than expressing their views. 
The flow of elderly to the South and West is economic good news for the states where they move, report two researchers who foresee increased competition among Sun Belt states to lure re­tirees. Incoming elderly don't arrive empty handed, and their spending on housing, food and other goods provides a multimil­lion-dollar boost to local economies, say Charles Longino of the University of Miami and William Crown of Brandeis University. 
A Christian couple and their eight children who fled religious persecution in the Soviet Union have become the targets of death threats, vandalism and a cross burning in their new home in White Bear Lake, Minn. "It's just ironic that they come here and experience more persecution," Judi Jankowski of the Minnesota chapter of World Relief, an arm of the National Association of Evangelicals, said Tuesday. 
With a luncheon featuring Vice President Dan Quayle bringing about $125,000 to the GOP on Tuesday, no one seemed to mind when he forgot the name of one of the party's three statewide candidates. About 450 people attended the $125-a-per­son lunch in Richmond, Virginia, honoring Republican candidate for governor J. Marshall Coleman. lieutenant governor nominee Eddy Dalton and attorney general candidate Joseph Benedetti. A couple of dozen people paid $3,000 each to attend a private recep­tion with Quayle. 
Engineers on Tuesday in Cape Canaveral, Florida troubleshot a puzzling engine problem that could delay for five or six days the planned launch of the space shuttle Atlantis carrying a nuclear-powered planetary probe into space. While the count­down continued despite the problem, NASA officials and workers also waited word from a Washington courtroom where a federal judge heard attorneys for three anti-nuclear groups ask that the launch scheduled for Thursday be cancelled. The plaintiffs argued that an explosion during liftoff could spread radioactive pluto­nium from Atlantis' payload over a wide area of east-central 
Florida. 
INDIANA BRIEFS 
The second bomb blast in two days at Anderson High School canceled classes again Tuesday, and a spate of telephoned bomb threats struck at least four other high schools in central Indiana. A small pipe bomb exploded about 7:35a.m. Tuesday in a hallway outside the school auditorium, said Charles Petersen, spe­cial agent in charge of the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms in Indianapolis. A few students and teachers were in the building when the bomb went off, but no one was injured. 
CAMPUS BRIEFS 
u.s. News and World Report ranked Notre Dame 23rd among all national universities, and ranked Saint Mary's College 7th among all midwest regional colleges and universities in its an­nual "America's Best Colleges" article. The rankings were based on five key areas. according to U.S. News: quality of the student body. strength of faculty, financial resources, ability to retain graduate students. and reputation for academic excellence. 
WEATHER 

Sunny and mild 
Mostly sunny and mild today. Highs from the mid to upper 60s. Clear tonight. Lows in the up­per 40s. Partly sunny and warm Thursday. Highs in the middle 70s. 
ALMANAC 
On October 11 : e In 1779: Polish nobleman Casimir Pulaski was killed while 
fighting for American indepen­dence during the Revolutionary War Battle of Savannah, Ga. e In 1958: The lunar probe Pioneer 1 was launched. It failed to go out as far as planned, fell back to Earth, and burned up in the atmosphere. e In 1962: Pope John XXIII convened the first session of the Homan Catholic Church's 21st Ecumenical Council, also known as Vatican II. e In 1975: The comedy-vari­ety TV show "NBC Saturday Night" made its debut with guest host George Carlin. 
lnlormafiO~ compiled tram Observer w•res and Observer stall reports 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for October 10, 1989 

Volume in shares 
130.72 Million 
NYSE Index  
199.00  ~0.34  
S&P Composite  
359.13  ..g,0.67  

Dow Jones Industrials 
2,785.33 'tts.oa 
Precious Metals Gold -<7 $2.10 to $361.00 I oz. Silver <7 2.0¢ to $5.03 I oz. 
Source: AP 
Ignorant college students are alarming sign of times 
This Monday, The Observer ran an Associated 
Press article about the relative ignorance of the 
average college student. According to the article 
one in four of the college seniors polled did not 
know that Christopher Columbus discovered 
America in 1492-they didn't even get the cor­
rect century. 
I'll refrain from listing the other statistics in the article, but I think the message should be quite clear: we are fast becoming a nation of ding dongs. It sounds funny, when you think of all those college students pointing to the Pacific Ocean on the map of the United States and say­ing it's the Atlantic Ocean, but it's really quite scary. 

Maybe these statistics don't apply to students at Notre Dame as much as they apply to stu­dents elsewhere. I'd like to think that anyone who is smart enough to get into this school would not mix up the Declaration of Indepen­dence with Mein Kampf, and at least know how to find their home state on a map. Of course, I don't know how many people have slipped through the cracks. 
Unfortunately, we can't live in an academic bubble. Once we get into the real world, we are going to live and work amongst people who may not have had the benefits of a good education, and we will be in the minority. It's rather em­barrassing that the generation before us are going to refer to all of us as a generation of boobs. 
So who is to blame? A lot of people blame the government-if only the president would put less money into weapons and more money into education, our children would be brighter. This is true-but it won't solve everything. President Bush could increase the education budget ten­fold and there would still be kids in this country who think Martin Luther King started the Protestant Reformation. 
So what can be done to prevent another gen­eration of ignorant people? In my opinion, a good education is like a triangle: you need three sides to make it work. 
One side of the triangle is the teacher. If a student is doing so poorly in school, the teacher should hold the kid back one year until he/she knows enough to go on to the next grade. Al­lowing an illiterate fifth grader to proceed to the sixth grade is not going to make things easier for the student; the kid will just get fur­ther and further behind and eventually give up on ever learning how to read and write. A teacher ought to be able to recognize problem students early on and help them out instead of sending them through the system like products on a conveyor belt. 
Another side of the triangle is the parents. Parenting is a full-time job and it's a lifetime commitment. Something is very wrong if par­ents don't know that their own child can't read or write. Our nation's teachers are responsible 
OF INTEREST 
Volunteers for the homeless are needed for programs at the homeless center. Those who are interested in helping out with kids club, tutoring, and bingo should sign up for volunteer times at 7 p.m. in the Farley Middle Boom. 
-Ihe-O~bse~-----~~I---_
-~--A-=Y:.'-' --· 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) IS published Monday through Fnday except durong exam a~d vacat10n penods The Observer IS published by students ot the Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur chased for 540 per year ($25 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer 
The Observer IS a member of The Assoc1ated Press All reproduct1on rrghts are reserved 
................................................................11 Observer classifieds will be accepted from
Happy Birthday Today.islauraS.'sbirthday.Callherup 

9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices 314 
and WISh her a happy one. By the way l !1 Laura,we do expect to see you dancing 
LaFOrtUne 

on pool tables tonrghl. • 

' •••The average 20 year old will be unable to read a Dr. Seuss book.' 
Robyn Simmons Asst. Accent Editor 
for many students at a time, and they can't be 
expected to give each and every student the indi­
vidual attention that the child should be receiv­
ing at home. Every parent should spend enough 
"quality time" with their kids to see if they are 
learning anything at school. 
The last side of the triangle is the student. 
After all, the student has to put forth some ef­
fort or it won't matter how hard the kid's par­
ents and teachers are working. Every student 
has a stake in their own education; and they 
have to want to learn before they can start 
learning. Today's students should be worried 
that they're so ignorant about basic historical 
facts and geography. 
Maybe a lot of us think it's no big deal that we don't know what the Magna Carta is or during what half of the century the Civil War was fought. After all, what do a lot of historical documents, wars, and dead presidents have to do with our lives today? 
Not much, when you think about it, but there's an important principle involved. If we don't care now about how little we know about our history. literature, and geography, we will keep setting our educational standards further back, year after year, until the average 20 year old will be unable to read a Dr. Seuss book. 
How can we compete economically with coun­tries like Japan when most of us can't find Japan on a globe? There are a lot of countries out there with better educational systems than our own, and the best way to narrow the gap is to make education a greater concern in our na­tion and in our personal lives. No matter how affiuent our society as a whole may be, our na­tion can hardly be considered a world power if its inhabitants are no more intelligent than a rock. 
I sincerely hope that something is done soon to curb the tide of ignorance in this country be­fore we become the laughing stocks of the in­dustrial nations. We'll only end up hurting our own future if we accept academic mediocrity as the norm. We have seen the enemy, and it is us. 
Robyn Simmons is a junior American Studies major. The views expressed are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Seniors going to Cancun must meet at 

6:30 p.m. in Theodore's. This mandatory meet­ing is required for all those going on the class trip to Mexico. 
Design Editor .................. Chris Labaree Design Assitant ~ .................... Greg lice Typesetters~~·~ ......................... Tim Kiefer ..................................................Gilbert Gomez Asst. News EditorFiorentine Hoelker News Copy Edilor....... Janice O'Leary Sports Copy Editor .. ~~~~~~· Bob Mitchell Viewpoint Copy Editor. Mike Truppa Viewpoint Layout... .... Colleen Stepan Accent Editor~~ ........... Paige A. Smoron Accent Copy Editor ...... Barbara Bryn Accenl Designer ............. Alison Cocks Typists ........................................Will Za.ner NO Day Editor ..................... Amy Leroux Photographer .............. Gerard Watson Ads Designer ................... ~. Kristie Rolke _ Val Paletta, Amy Eckert, Laura Rossi 

Question: How do you reach over 12,000 people daily? Answer: Buy Observer ad space. Call 239-6900. 

Wednesday, October 11, 1989 



World Awareness week activities focus on China 
BY JOE MOODY 
News Staff 
Th11 Notre Dame Student Governmnnt Intellectual Life Commission kicked off its lirst in a snrins of World Awareness wneks this week with its fticus on China. 
In cooperation with the Chi­nese Friendship Association and the Chinese Student Soli­darity Union. the Student Gov­ernmnnt is sponsoring Chinese Awarennss Wnek throughout this wnek. 
On Monday over 100 people attended thn showing of "The Last Emperor" at the Hesburgh Memorial Library with com­ments from Professor Mia Wong Bassham of Indiana Uni­vnrsity, South Bend. 
A lecture was held Tuesday night by Wenjuan Gu, senior ed­itor of thn Chinnse Central Tele­vision. and Notre Dame Profes­sor Xian Gao. The lecture was on "Manifestations of Themes of Confucionism and Chinese Litnraturn in Chinese Society." 
Tonight at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre, Profes­sors Peter Moody and Kwan Kim will discuss the events leading up to and including the prodnmocratic student uprising in China. Thn lecture is entitled "The Last 10 .Years of Politi­cal/Economic Reform in China." 
Professor Shaozi Su of Mar­quette University, currently ex­pelled from China, and Lu Li, a student leader and hunger striker of the prodemocratic movement who is now on the Chinese Government's wanted list will lecture on "Tiananmen Square and the future of the Prodemocratic Movement." 
Friday will conclude the week with a Chinese meal at the Blue Room in the North Dining Hall. Father llesburgh will deliver a speech about his experiences with U.S./Chinese relations. Limited reservations must be obtained from the Student Gov­ernment Secretary on the 2nd noor LaFortune. 
Charlie Maher who has helped originate and plan the idea of having various student aware­ness weeks at Notre Dame says he expects about 3 focus weeks a semester, each to be for spe­cilic regions in the world cover­ing issues that include the politics, economics, history and culture pertaining the the re­gion. 
Commenting on Chinese Awareness Week, the lirst focus week, Maher said, ''I'm really impressed at the turn-out so far. It's been fantastic." 
"Oh What a Beautiful Girl" 
Happy 21st Elizabeth-Anne Crisp 
are very proud of you! 
Mom and Dad 


NON-VARSITY DEADLINES 
BADMINTON 
SINGLES AND DOUBLES 


INTERHALL VOLLEYBALL 
MEN'S AND WOMEN'S 


CO-REC BASKETBALL 
OPEN TO N.D. STUDENTS 

OCTOBER11 
-----~-------~~~-~-~--~­

Campus picks up its pace 
A group of joggers on North Quad exercise to keep fit on Tuesday. 
Trojan horse to visit pep rally 
By MONICA YANT News Copy Editor 
A 14-foot Trojan horse will lead a pre-USC game spirit pa­rade October 20, said Erich Straub of Irish Insanity at last night's Hall President's Council meeting. 
A skit performed by the the­atrical group Irish Accent and members of Irish Insanity has also been planned before the evening's pep rally. 
Irish Insanity constructed the horse to boost spirit and atten­dance at the pre-game pep rally. "Pep rallies have generally turned into an alumni event," said Straub. "We thought the horse was a perfect opportu­nity to get people over there again." 
The horse will be stationed around campus throughout the day, and from 6:15 to 6:30 p.m., it will travel around cam­pus picking up students to at­tend the pep rally. The Leprechaun may "pop up" 
Observer classifieds · will be accepted from
~~~~:·:~-~~~::~~~:~~:::.·~:;1··~~:-~·p 
and w1sh her a happy one. By the way 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 
Laura, we do expect to see you dancing 
LaFortune.



II II
on pool tables tomght 


Saturday. Oct. 14 s·oopm 
Morr1s Clv1c Allri11nr111m all seats reserved 
$16 50 

Tickets on sale 
NOW 
Civ1c Box Office. N1ghtwinds Record Connect1on & usual outlets CHARGE 284-9190 
somewhere along the route, Straub said. 
An HPC project, the Quarter Mile, will also be a part of the festivities October 20. From 9 
a.m. to 5 p.m., one mile of tape will be spread between Dillon Hall and The Hammes ,Notre Dame Bookstore to collect money for the United Way. 
Students are asked to stick their quarters and other change on the tape. HPC hopes to collect a mile of quarters for the charity. 
The establishment of the Hall Spirit Award was announced by Dwayne Hicks, of the Alumni Association. The '85 grad initi­ated the award, to be given to a senior from each dorm who best represents the spirit· of Notre Dame. 
The senior will be chosen in each hall from a ballot of stu­dents chosen by the dorm's ju­dicial board. 
Hicks stressed that the award is not a popularity contest. "It's an award for the social person in each dorm who has helped 
Working for Peace Our 
resource guide brings together a wide range ofapproachesinto one easy-to-use book covering peace organizations, arms control, personal diplomacy, peace studies, how to work through your church, school, business or local government, and lots more. For your reference and for friends who don't 
know 
where to begin. 
$5.95 per copy 
The Fund for Peace 
345East46thStree~New York 10017 
make it a better place," he said. 
John Lubrano, general man­ager of Theodore's, requested HPC's assistance in improving the dance club's image. By so­liciting suggestions from each dorm, Lubrano feels the club can better accommodate the wishes of the student body. "I need a mechanism for bringing these suggestions to me," he said. 
Also speaking at HPC was a representative from SUB, who outlined Greek Week, which will take place November 7-11. Men's and women's dorms will be paired for the contest, which includes a fun run and team­oriented games. Movies, such as Animal House and Revenge of the Nerds, will be featured. 
Tonight's Family Focus, "Alcoholism in the family," will take place at 8 p.m., Pangborn Hall. Alcohol and Drug Educa­tion Coordinator Carolyn Kelly will speak and present a video of family situations involving alcoholism. 

-~-------~-----. 
The Observer/Gerard Watson 

page 4 The Observer 

Talks 
continued from page 1 

defamation campaign against the GDR (East Germany) and other Socialist states," the East German news agency ADN said. 
Honecker's statement ap­peared to signal a willingness to crush dissent, if necessary, despite the Leipzig and Dresden leaderships' willingness to talk with opposition groups. 
Manfred Stolpe, deputy direc­tor of the Lutheran Church Federation, earlier Tuesday de­nied a West German radio re­port that said high-level talks had been held between church 

Class 
continued from page 5 
Mugsy, How 'bout another on the kisser? ·Your 'lust' love 
Kelly, Good luck with your interviews II Love, Brian 
••• PETITE NATURE"' Happy Birthday! Remember you are only as old as you think you are. From, "' PETITE TETE "' 
TOP 10 QUOTES IN 315 
10. "OK, OK . • 
9. "Oh, wow!" 
8. "That's the BEST!" 
7. "Trish, your eyes get bigger!" 
6. "LALALAI!r' 
5. "Men aren1 pigs, pigs are smarter." 
4. "This pretty much sucks." 
3. "This is great stuff," or "That's odd .. ." 
2. "Very coolr 
1. "Happy birthday to me!" Oh \'eah, Chris says Happy Birthday, too. Love Kim! 
SIMON, DREW, SULLY, MATI, MIKE, AND JOHN--Thanks for entertaining Andy, Frank, and Szefi this weekend. You guys are great -I just hope you didn1 corrupt them! 
Love, Sarah 
leaders and government offi­cials in East Berlin. 
But he said "working groups" did exist on several levels to discuss the current si­tuation. He did not elaborate, adding only: "We're not sleep­ing." 
Christof Ziemer, the superin­tendent of Dresden's Lutheran Church, said topics discussed were election reforms, travel restrictions and release of those arrested during demon­strations. 
The events in Leipzig and Dresden were the first signifi­cant sign of any breakthrough in the country's hard-line stance. 
DAVID WIRTHMAN­NEED ANY HELP WITH YOUR LAUNDRY? (I KNOW A SHORT CUT...) LOVE, YOUR MAIDEN 
Need ride to Indy for interview on Wed Oct 18. Will buy gas. -Tim #3000 


Prisoners 
continued from page 1 
privately the process can take from an hour to two weeks. 
According to the president, "all relevant factors were brought into consideration, in­cluding the fact that most of these prisoners had already served many, many years of their sentences and are already advanced in years.... A favor­able climate currently ·exists in which the release can take place." 
The most prominent prisoner on the list is Sisulu, who ran day-to-day operations of the ANC as its secretary-general in 1949-54, when the government ordered him to resign. 
He was sentenced to life in June 1964, along with Mandela and other leaders of the ANC's internal military wing, for sab­otage and plotting the over­throw of the white government. Mandela already had spent two years in prison. 
Mandela's other co-defen­dants to be freed are Ahmed 

r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 
tAN EVENING OF

ISCOTTISH MUSIC
I PRESENTED BY THE MICHIANA SCOTTISH SOCIETY 
I The Fort Wayne Scottish Pipes and Drums 
I 

Nancy Eversole, The Kentucky Woman 
I 

Richard Mao, The Peking Piper IJohn Watson, Scottish Fiddler and Harper 
1.--~~~..f!L~~L--~~~~~~~~~ 
Saturday, Oct. 14, 1989  BENDIX THEATER  
7 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. e.s.t.  Century Center  
I  Tick~ts: $S.OO($1 discount for College Students,  120 S. St. Joseph South.Bend, IN  j  



WII~ 

0 

Wednesday,0 October 11 at 7:00 pm in the Montgomery Room of the LaFortune Student Center The Last Ten Years of Political Reform in China 
Dr. Peter J. Moody will speak on the "Failure of Political Reform". Dr. Moody, a Professor of the Government and International Studies Department at Notre Dame, conducts research in Chinese politics and Asian International Relations. Professor K wan S. Kim will speak on the "Economic Reform in China: Which Way Now?" Professor Kim, a development economist, is a professor of economics and Faculty Fellow of the Kellogg Institute at Notre Dame. 

ADWORKS 
Wednesday, October 11, 1989 
Kathrada, 60; Andrew Mlan­geni, 63; Elias Motsoaledi, 65; and Raymond Mhlaba, 69. 
Wilton Mkwayi, 66, who briefly took command of the ANC military wing, Spear of the Nation, after Mandela's co-de­fendants were arrested in July 1963, is to be released from a life term he received after a separate trial in 1964. 
De Klerk's announcement also named Oscar Mpetha, an 80-year-old, partially blind dia­betic with one leg who has spent most of his five-year prison term in the hospital and was due for release next year. 
Mpetha, the country's oldest political prisoner, was the ANC leader in Cape province and, during the appeal of his terror­ism sentence in 1983, was elected a co-president of the United Democratic Front. 
The judge said he did not want to send Mpetha to prison but that the Terrorism Act, since repealed, required it. 
No information was immedi­ately available on the eighth man to be freed, Jafta Masem­ula. 
Two other co-defendants of Mandela, Dennis Goldberg and Govan Mbeki, were freed previ­ously. 
Goldberg, the only white con­victed in the trial, was deported in 1985. 
Mbeki was released two years ago in what the government said was a test case for the possible release of Mandela. He was banned from speaking in public, talking to the press or leaving his hometown, even though the government had said his release was uncondi­tional. 

SWEATER SALE 
100°/o WOOL-HANDMADE IMPORTED FROM GREECE 
October 9-13, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 108 LaFortune Student Center 
CORINTHIAN TRADING COMPANY 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 
by 

Moliere 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
Wednesday, October 11 thru Saturday October 14, 8:10pm Sunday, October 15, 3:10pm Washington Hall $6 main floor $5 Balcony $4 students/senior citizen on Wed,Thurs,Sun 
Tickets available at the door or in advance at Lafortune Student Center Box Office MasterCard and Visa Orders 239-7 


---~ --~---­

Wednesday, October 11 , 1989 The Observer page 5 
ADOPTION: Loving, professional I need ride to, from Buffalo for Coming Thursday to Theodore's HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF couple in Midwest wishes to adopt break. Call Bill x 11 03 PRAYER AND JOYOUS
Class 
newborn. We offer stable and <«IRISH ACCENT>» KAAAREN MCNAMARA COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A continued from page 1 0 happy home, financial security, MIAMI FLIGHTS• MIAMI FLIGHTS CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE welcoming extended family. Round-trip airfares to Miami or Notre Dame's very own theater WE'VE HAD THE GREATEST POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY October Break PLEASE call collect 513-751-6711 Fort Lauderdale. Depart troupe goes comedy-improv!ll MEMORIES SO FAR, SO TONITE RD. 300 W. KOKOMO, IN 46901 
Ride needed to Detroit Area for after 6:30 pm weekdays, anytime November 23 from Midway 9:30-THURSDAY-Theodores LETS TURN THE COMMONS 
October Break. Will share gas. weekends.Attorney involved. (Chicago ); return November 27 to BE THERE! INTO A 701 SOUTH ... ONLY BAUMER­
Want to leave after USC game and Midway (Chi.) . $239 for students, WITHOUT CANADIANS!!! HAPPY 
return anytime after Thursday. ARTS AND LETTERS CAREER $265 for others. Tix sold on first -SO PUT ON THAT CHEElY 21st DAY. 30 CAREERS come, first-serve basis, and are NEEDED: RIDE TO NEW GRIN & CELEBRATE!!! BIRTHDAY!II Please call REPRESENTED. TODAY non,refundable. Anthony Travel ORLEANS AREA FOR OCTOBER WE HOPE YOU HAVE THE BEST Matt @x1650 12:00 noon-4:00p.m. C.C.E. 1-800-?DOMERS BREAK. WILL HELP WITH $ HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY!!! BIRTHDAY EVER! YOU ARE ALL MAJORS INVITED. CALL MATT@ X3106 DEFINITELY "THE BEST"! LOVE NICOLE KELLY JEN JOAN 734 P.E.
ARTS AND LETTERS CAREER 
HiAg! HEY ALL YOU REALLY COOL 
DAY. 30 CAREERS OFF-CAMPUS SENIOR&­ENGLISH LESSONS.

-------------------------------·-·--· ,·1\.o,.
SMC -ND STUDENTS SUMMER REPRESENTED. TODAY
SENIORS.........................SENIORS CHECK OUT THE BULLETIN IRISH MUSIC: THE wot:lb TO~" Experienced teacher of English to
PROGRAMS-LONDON (MAY 23-12:00 noon-4:00p.m. C.C.E. 
BOARD BETWEEN THE HUDDLE JOHN KENNEDY AND FRIENDS foreigners offers private lessons.
JUNE 22) ROME (JUNE 17-JULY ALL MAJORS INVITED. 
• MANDATORY• AND LAFORTUNE FOR SATURDAY AT CLUB 23 $8 per hour. 232-6831.
16) TRAVEL IN IRE., SCOT.,
SENIOR CLASS TRIP MEETING CURRENT AND UPCOMING 
FRANCE, GER., & SWITZ.
for all those going to Cancun. CLASS EVENTS NEED A RIDE TO MPLS/ST. PAUL
CLASSES IN BIO., BUEC, HIST., ARTS AND LETTERS CAREER 
WEDNESDAY,OCTOBER11 HAPPY BIRTHDAY ALYSSA! FOR OCT. BREAK! WILL HELP
SOC, & ITALIAN. MEETING MON. DAY. 30 CAREERS
From 6:30 to 7:30 in THEODORES. FLAVORED POPCORN SALTS I promise to keep you away from WITH GAS $$ CALL LARA
OCT. 16 AT7:00 P.M. IN REPRESENTED.TODAY. 
FOR SALEII CALL JENN TO flash attachments and other things X4526 OR MICHELLE X2696 CARROLL HALL (SMC), PIZZA, 12:00 noon-4:00p.m. C.C.E. 
PURCHASE-X4885 today. BOB STOCKWIN was here!
SLIDES, FORMER ALL MAJORS INVITED. 
ARTS AND LETTERS CAREER I hope today is great for you. TIMOTHY MICHAEL -WILL WE
PARTICIPANTS, FACULTY, & 
DAY. 30 CAREERS To Bethe, Natasha, Jill B., LOVE YA TONS­FIND EACH OTHER IN THE
PASSPORT PHOTOS. FOR
REPRESENTED. TODAY Pandora, Tanj, Amy, Kathleen, crumbcake WOODS AGAIN? HAPPY 11TH! 
MORE INFO. CALL DR. BLACK NEEDED: RIDE FOR 2 TO
12:00 noon-4:00p.m. C.C.E. Col, LOVEYA! CRP
284-4460 OR 272-3762 BUFFALO AREA AFTER USC
ALL MAJORS INVITED. Terry, Michelle, Colleen, Dave, the P.S. "ALAWAYS MEANS 23
GAME. WILL PAY$. CALL KEITH 6th floor Grace porn kings, and NEED RIDE from D.C. after break! TIMES A WEEK!
AT X1045.

To the girl at THEO's sat. night especially Swanie and Di -If need help with driving/expenses, ADOPTION is a beautiful between 11 :30 -12:00, with blonde Thanks for a very happy and call Stacy at x4120. ELIZABETH-ANNE CRISP, beginning. Your baby will thrive as hair wearing a red vest, I NEED TO OUT OF CONTROL birthday (and Get ready to party for your 21st! a loved member of our happy MEET YOU on the steps of the We've written jokes for Letterman weekend!) I'm glad we all You are the greatest sister. family. Our family can't grow any architecture bldg Thurs at 7:00pm. &Leno, we even designed that remembered how to "just say no"... Love, John Andrew other way. Medical/counseling Ciao. KJH bubble that the Pope rides around as usual. Going to MIAMI of OHIO? I need a expenses paid. Call collect anytime in ... IRISH ACCENT performs at Love, ride there the wknd. of Oct. 14. Will 0-317-497-9939. Theodore's, 9:30 Thursday. M.V.P. #2-Razz help with $. Call Sarah at #3484. 
see CLASS I page 4 

OPPORTUNITIES IN INFORMATION SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT 






Get WithThe Program. 
Ifyou're looking for a fast-track career in Information Systems Management, get with the program. The Travelers ACCENT training program. 
A 5-year introduction to one of corporate America's most sophisticated IS environments, ACCENT provides a complete commitment to the develop­ment of the business, managerial and technical skills you need to assume a leadership role. 
Through our rotational assignments, much like in-house consulting 
experiences, you'll gain hands-on exposure to ourbusinesses, our technology 
and our people. You'll make a direct impact on our ability to make 
IS technology perform as an effective business tool. And you'll be well rewarded for your contributions. 
ACCENT isn't easy and it isn't for every­one.To qualify, you'll need an outstanding record of academic achievement in Computer Science, 
Information Systems, Electrical Engineering, MIS or a related subject. Excellent communications and organizational skills, and relevant work experience, are also essential. 
So get with the program. Sign up for an interview with our ACCENT recruiter. We'll be oncampus November 13th and14th.To schedule an interview, you must sign up byTuesday, October 
17th. Or, send your resume and tran­script to: JohnS. Breckenridge, College Relations-ACCENT, The Travelers 
Companies, OneTower Square, 1-30-CR, 
Hartford, CT06183-7060. 
TheTravelersT · 
You're better off under the Umbrella~ 
The Travelers Companies, Hartford, Connecticut 06183. 
Wednesday, October 11, 1989
page 6 The Observer 

cagopie Are m Slightly Diffe loth. 
We have seen the future of public acco~ting. . . and it is us. 
,'/4, 
E 
..,,.,,, rnst & ~Young is an accounting firm with several points of difference, one of which is our people. People who are leaders. People that have made us the preeminent firm in our industry. 
In fact, Ernst & Young people have been leaders from the very beginning. We invented the Big Eight merger and were the first to make it a reality. Moreover, Ernst & Young people serve more than 100 of both the Fortune 500 industrial and service 
.:~~~;~," 
compani . ,_ · ·· they are also the leader in serving 

100 fastest growing businesses. 
But to fuel our growth, we need even more exceptional people. People who are not only highly skilled technicians, but who are also managers•. Idea people who are willing to challenge old ways, change their sbipes and share our vision of thefuture. 

. . -'i[@lt,. 
Discover what it is like to work with a leadej,. 
. . W~!\ 
_-Make your career choice Ernst & Y9ung ...and slifu-e:: 
• %\> •·· ,,:we~­
exl!itemenl 
Viewpoint
Wednesday, October 11, 1989 page 7 
The .Observer-
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)239·5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Cocc1a Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor .. .Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager .. Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager... .....Alison Cocks Accent Editor .. John Blas1 Systems Mgr...... Bernard Brennmkmeyer Photo Editor... .......... Eric Bailey OTS Director................... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor. ...Christine Gill Controller... . ............ Anne Lindner 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi· ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol· 1c1es of the adm1n1strat1on of either mstitut1on The news is reported as accurately and ob· 1ect1vely as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1n1on of the maJority of the follow1ng Ed1tor-1n·Ch1ef. Managmg Ed1tor. Execut1ve News Ed1tor. Viewpoint Editor, Sports Ed1tor. Accent Ed1tor. Photo Ed1tor. Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters. and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the commun1ty and the free express1on of vary1ng opm1ons on campus. through letters IS encouraged 

cross-section of cultural lead­offices and joining in partner­agamst drugs. Japanese anti-drug efforts ... 

By Dan Coats 
ership. ship with other groups fighting A.M. Rosenthal of The New was a decision by Japanese so­It was only fifteen years ago abuse around the state. York Times points to an inter­ciety that selling and nonmedi­In the fall of 1965, I went off that Dr. Peter Bourne, later As a federal legislator, my esting object lesson. Japan is a cal use of drugs were no longer to the University of Chicago in President Jimmy Carter's Chief own past experience and a con­nation that should have a drug acceptable-not at any level. by snarrh of a graduatn degree. of Drug Abuse Policy, described cern for the American family crisis. It has plenty of extra anybody.... The Japanese na­What I discovered was an in­cocaine as "probably the most have led me to make fighting money, plenty of leisure and a tional consensus was the fun­stitution engaged in an act of benign of illicit drugs currently drugs my first priority. I have younger generation that is damental take-off point for painful. methodical, and public in widespread use ... short-act­been working to get resources often rebellious against tradi­fighting drugs, and it was not self-immolation. ing, not physically addicting, and know-how into the hands tional values. more mysterious than when the 
Thn student body had con­and acutely pleasurable." of people who will set and en­United States finally came to tractnd all thn classic symptoms force a zero tolerance stan­But in that nation of 123 mil­the consensus, say, that rape, of the 1960's. The It was a lie. But it was a lie dard. Law enforcement offi­lion people, which had a major or sexual abuse of children, or "nstablishmnnt" was vilified. from which we are still recover­cials, neighborhood activists, drug problem after World War racial lynching were outside the Fn)n lovn was celebrated. And, ing. In 1965, when I was at the community leaders, parents and II, there were only 25,000 drug­range of toleration." for somn rnason I can't quite University of Chicago, less than students will make the differ­
related arrests in 1988. And rncall, the basics of hygiene two percent of the entire ence in Indiana and the rest of there are about 250,000 addicts Our object is to restrict the wnn1 disparaged and fell into Amnrican population had had the nation. My goal is simple: in the whole country. range of toleration. It is to end alarming disfavor. any experience with an illicit give them the tools and they'll 
Compare those figures to our crisis of equivocation. And 
Students trind their best to be drug. Today more than 10 per­do the job. New York City alone. Last year we've finally made a start. surly, unknmpt, and disorderly. cent of Americans-23 mil­
there were over 87,000 drug­It didn't take much practice. lion-use illegal drugs each Taken together, these kind of related arrests. The city has Editor's note: The preceding
But most of all. and every­year. efforts can begin to change the about 600,000 addicts. remarks were taken from a wh!)re, thern wnre drugs. Drugs Our drug crisis, to a large ex­old tolerance into a new social Why such a dramatic differ­speech given by Senator Dan as escape. Drugs as rncreation. tent, was created by a failure to consensus. And that is the ence? Rosenthal explains, "The Coats. R-Jndiana, on Sept. 18, 
Drugs as political statnment. raise and enforce a drug-free proper starting point for a war basic answer to the mystery of 1989. 
This was disturbing, but not standard. It was aided by a all that surprising. Many ven­failure of leadership. But now it LETTERS erabln old schools wnre feeling seems that this is beginning to thn same currents of chaos. change. A great deal of work 
It wasn't the antics of stu­remains. But we have traveled a 
Art Endowment, not legislators, must be critiqued
dents that were confusing. It long way from Peter Bourne to was the administration's reac­William Bennett. 
tion-or. morn preeisely, the President Bush has provided Dear Editor: craft. Such a dependence has the Endowment. Instead, the lark of it. new leadership. His anti-drug Patrick Ninneman made some created a dreadful situation Endowment should be replaced 
Thn school authoritins, out of strategy sets a high goal-a 50 valid points in his letter to the where the professional survival with an amendment to the tax exhaustion or fear. met the percent reduction in drug use editor (The Observer, Oct. 6) of thousands of American code that will allow tax deduc­drug problnm with measures over the next ten years. It in­concerning Congress' recently artists is subject to the artistic tions for contributions to artis­morn appropriate to cutting cludes more money for street­discovered power to censor tastes of one organization. tic endeavors. class than substancn abuse. level law enforcement, commu­artistic expression through its Many artists feel the need to al­Instead of setting standards, nity drug prevention and ability to control the budget of ter their work to conform to Such a system would allow tlwv made excuses. treatment. the National Endowment for the types of art that are readily the wide variety of American 
'l,.lwir tolerance was deadly But the most important con­the Arts. However, his conclu­supported financially by the artists to receive aid from the for some. dnstrurtive for many. tribution of the President's plan sion that the Endowment can Endowment. Thus, the wide variety of American tax­It disrupted dassns and cor­is to send a message that was enhance artistic freedom if it Endowment, through its deci­payers. By being required only rupted social lifP. In the end, it lacking in thn past: drug use were only purged of the influ­sions to support certain types to please the segment of the 
aided the sprnad of addiction. will not be tolerated. The ences of conservative legisla­of art over others, has served American population that ad­
But th!) lnsson wasn't lnarned. President allows no qualifica­tors like Helms fails to recog­to reduce artistic freedom in mires their particular art, in­"i'his type of failure. multiplied tions or exceptions. His mes­nize the inherent deficiencies of the United States. Such a result stead of a central artistic au­on other campusns, containnd sage cannot be misunderstood. this government agency. is in direct contrast to its thority in Washington, individ­tlw seeds of our eurrnnt drug Ilis seriousness cannot be ques­stated goal of creating a vi­ual talents of American artistic crisis. By tlw 1970's, it wasn't tionPd. Since the creation of the brant and free American art can be greater expressed. 
Timothy Lnary or some other Governor Bayh has also an­Endowment, most artists in the community. 
psychedelic crackpot who was nounced his long-awaited anti­United States have become de­excusing drug abuse. A crisis of drug plan. lie has put the pendent on its monetary grants In order to fight back against Michael Scholl compromisn had reached from weight of his office behind the for at least some of the funds censorship, we should not be Keenan Hall collcge campuses to a broad war on drugs, opening regional they need to perform their searching for ways to improve Oct. 7, 1989 
DOONESBURY QUOTE OF THE DAY 
PET!3R, ITU/OUW1/PPMR. A TER­H& 15NOIAJ RJ8Le MI5TAK& HASet&N MA~! Pla<JNG UP THIS 15 NO HOUS/3 OF CRACK ! NHATAPPEARS 7V Be II T/31..&­
PHONC,P8m< 
'A life spent making mistakes is not more honorable but more useful than a life spent doing nothing.' 
George Bernard Shaw 
(1856-1950) 


Viewpoint 

Wednesday, October 11, 19e9
pa e 8 
Students fail to test the University's authority 
Why is it that at Notre Dame no one ever seems to question the authority of our adminis­tration, when the administra­tion allows so many things to happen that should not? 
I have thought of three ex­amples where students do not care and yet should. 
Take, for example, the class size of many upper level classes. We pay over $14,000 every year and the provost should realize that we should not have to put up with having more than 20 or at most 30 in our 400 and 500-level classes. The ideal would be to have only 10 or 15 in a class; to have 50 to 60 students in an upper level class is ridiculous. It is unfair to the teacher and to the stu­dent because there can be no interaetion on a personal level. This interaction is vital to a student's education. My fa­vorite classes are ones in which I know the teacher. It makes elass more enjoyable and it forces me to work harder be­cause I do not want to disap-
LETTERS 
point the teacher whom I also consider my friend. 
At IUPUI when a class gets too big they simply hire another teacher. One may argue that Notre Dame does not have the resources, but I believe that we do. Under the direction of the provost, the University could focus its attention away from construction of new buildings to financing the salaries of more teachers. Having more teachers would cause the class sizes to decrease. 
If there is a space problem for the increased number of new classes, then take some of the money that the University receives in donation and build elassrooms rather than quads. This would be immediately ben­eficial to all. Classes would be more intimate, fun, and chal­lenging. We should vocalize our eornplaints beeause our silence allows the provost to eontinue his policy of large classes. 
Another example can be seen in the University Food Services run by William lliekey. Aside from the inexcusably low rating it received for its health stan­dards, students are not given a flexible meal plan. I only eat two meals a day, yet I am charged for three. I have heard the argument that the price av­erages out so that we are really getting a good deal, but that is not the point. The point is we are not given the choice to de­termine something as inconse­quential as a meal plan. What happens to the student who eats in the cafeteria only once a day or eats there very intermit­tently, how is it fair to him? This typifies the attitude that what the administration says goes. 
My final example is the Notre Dame Hammes Bookstore. I have not done a scientific study on price differenees between Pandora's books and Notre Dame's, but I have looked at a few to see if thoro is a differ­ence, and there certainly is. First of all, the book "Firmament of Time" by Lon~n Eisley is priced by Notre Dame at $6. 95. If you take off the bookstore's price sticker you find the publisher's price un­derneath is $5.95. Already they have marked the book up a dollar. I caiJed Pandora's Books to check the price and indeed Notre Dame charged $1.00 more than the listed price. What does this teaeh us? That when we have a monopoly we should abuse it? 

Some may argue that I knew the rules before I got here and I should have gone somewhere else. But just because the rules were here before me does not mean that they are fair. 
Too many students passively sit back and allow the adminis­tration to dictate policy that is not always fair. Where is the free thinking that is supposed to occur at a university? 
The central question is not why our sehool is as it is, the question is why doesn't any student care'! I hope I olTend someone, but I feel that no orw cares about what happens on campus and that those that do don't really do much to change it. 
The University should en­courage sineere dialogue be­tween students and the admin­istration: a dialogue that can produce actual change. 
There are a number of great things about our sehool. A preparation for life includes questioning authority, because if authority is not questioned, what is to stop it from abusing its power? 
If we really earn about Notre Dame, we will try to change some of its faults; those who do not care sit back and do noth­ing. It is not our fault that the situation is as it is, but it is our fault if we do not try to change it. All it takPs is a willingness nn the stucl!~nts' part to make themselves !ward by an often­times deaf administration. 
Terence Coyne ts a sophomore in the rollege of Arts and /,el/ers. 

Women of the altar? 
Church 'chauvinism' illustrates irreverance tor history 
Dear Editor: God had wanted a woman. lin feels that those oppressed by 
Recent letters by Mr. Kevin would have made Jesus a slavery should accept it quietly. McCormick and Ms. Julie woman. The fact that he didn't "Let all who an~ und1~r the yoke Parsons concerning the ordina­proves that God chose a man of slavery regard their maswrs tion of women deeply disturbed for a specific reason. Yes, God as worthy of all honor, so that me. I would like to take this had a specific reason for the name of God and the tnach­opportunity to dispute the ab­choosing a man, but I maintain ing may not he ddamed" (6: 1). solutely outlandish claims both that llis reason was strictly I don't b1~lieve that we can us1~ individuals make in their de­contextual. The historical pe­random excerpts from fense of the perpetuation of riod in which Jesus lived was Scripture to justify slavery, and chauvinism in the Catholic undeniably male-oriented. To I daresay there are quit1~ a f1~w Church. use a woman would have been South Africans enslaved by 
First, let's discuss Mr. ineffectual given the public's at­apartlwid who would agree McCormick's notion that the titude toward and treatment of with me. This applies to tlw Eucharist is "the ultimate women at that time. Jesus, as a question of chauvinism as well. combination of the spiritual man, already was a hard-sell: Again. this is strictly a contex­and the physical, and because a poor earpenter speaking of tual question: Timothy's lPttPr 
Dear Hdilor: the "universal" Catholie Chureh of this. we use the exact earthly peace and a Kingdom after was written centuries ago to 
I really dislike arguments while, at the same time, having elements which Christ used at death had to do a lot of con­address situations and bPliefs along the lines of "Love it or such an intolerant and closed the Last Supper." lie goes on to vincing faced with a public ex­from eenturins ago. Leave it.", "If you don't like the mind. Where is Christian tradi­say that the priest must there­pecting a strong warrior ready Today, most areas in our so­way America is run, be a tion? Where is justice and fore by male -in the likeness of to lead them to political promi­ciety have come to accPpt 
Communist and move to equality? Jesus. Didn't you say exact? nence in the world. God is om­women as men's equals. Sadly, Hussia.", "If you don't like I did not sec last week's panel Well, then, shouldn't we start a nipotent and could have used a our own Church persists in ig­Notre Dame, why did you come as a forum for open discussion movement to assure our priests woman, but considering the en­noring this fact. To hope and here? Why do you stay?" on the topic of female priests, are also thirty-three years old vironment, the wiser decision even insist that women be al­Most reeently this was applied as much as it was more of a and of Jewish descent? It sure was to use a man. lowed to become priests does to the ordination of women in public proclamation of the in­wouldn't hurt if they were first Ms. Parsons' argument not represnnt a blasphemous the Catholic Church. Women justice in the Church. Using the century Palestinians or if their against the ordination of act as Ms. Parsons and Mr. can not leave the ehurch; they values of the Roman Catholic mothers were virgins, either. If women, too, is based on God's McCormick insinuate, but have already been left out. The Church, it was shown that you really supported the will. An excerpt from 1 Timothy, rather, it d1~mands that tlw 
role of nuns in the Church or women should obviously not be Catholic Church and its dogma, she claims, proves that God Church act, like God. within its the recent gains by the laity excluded from the priesthood you would. feels women should not be al­historical context. hardly make up for the cen­any longer. I feel the same. Mr. McCormick's valiant at­lowed to "teach or preach" turies of discrimination. Zachary 1/udgins tempt to keep women out of the (2:12-13). If this is so, then Chris Collins 
It is also absurd to base Keenan Hall priesthood goes on. Now, God's maybe an excerpt from the Pasquerilla West opinions on the Scriptures and Oct. 6, 19R9 will comes into the picture. If same letter proves that God Oct. 5, 1989 
Notre Dame's homosexuals should 'come out', speak up and be proud they 'are NO too' 
Dear Editor: the tragic choice to repress many celebrities, sports heroes, tion that gay men and lesbian tion you will rneeive. And if' you 
Across the nation today, peo­their true feelings and try to presidents, popes and other women hold in our society. are straight, avoid calling peo­ple are stepping out of hidden live their lives in conformity famous people throughout his­This is not to say that it is ple "faggot" or "dyke" or lives and letting their families with the expectations of society. tory have hidden their homo­impossible to live openly and worse. Be sensitive and under­and friends know a part of Often this leads to broken sexuality and helped preserve honestly as a gay person here standing when a friend comes them that they have previously marriages, alcoholism, or even the misconceptions and stereo­under the Golden Dome. There out to you. Listen to what they kept hidden. As part of suicide. types about being gay. are students who have come have to say, and try to em­National Corning Out Day, Others, however, reject the At Notre Dame, the coming out to a few, or all, of their pathize with the anxiety and thousands of the estimated judgments of others and decide out process for a gay or bisex­friends and have little or no anger they may feel. If you have twenty-five miilion gay and les­to acknowledge their true ual person might seem difficult problem. The Notre Dame fam­questions about what it means bian people in the United States orientation. This can be or even impossible. The preva­ily, as a rule, can be very ae­to be gay, don't be afraid to will be proudly (and perhaps a remarkably difficult. The young lent attitude condoning homo­cepting of its gay brothers and ask. Education is the key to little anxiously) revealing them­gay person growing up is not phobia can be oppressive and sisters. And once you have conquering homophobia. selves as gay persons. aware of any positive role mod­stifling to a young person who come out to your friends, it is Remember that gay people 
As far back as they ean re­els to look to. This is because is struggling to build a positive amazing how liberated you feel. live, learn and pray around you member, many gay people recall society is reluctant to show self image as a gay person. A lot of energy is wasted trying every day. We arc students, their feelings and emotions them any. Dorm life can be particularly to lead a double life, being ex­faculty, staff, religious, and being in conflict with the be­Imagine what a boost for the stressful. The residence halls tra careful what you say or administration. We are gay and liefs or those around them. self image it would be to know are the breeding grounds for who you look at, and worrying proud -not ashamed or em­Ultimately, things grow to a that Leonardo da Vinci, Greg homophobia -"Faggot" is who might call or say hello to barrassed. We are ND too. crisis point -they have been Louganis, Tchaikovsky, Lily often the worst insult you can you on the quad. J. Michael Liger taught that homosexuals are Tomlin, and Walt Whitman hurl at a dormmate. Abusive If you are gay, pick a friend Joe Gress perverted, sinful, limp-wristed have all felt the same angst language such as this, whether or two, sit down with them, and Mike W. Miller child molesters, and yet they about their personal feelings, or not meant as a slam against let them in on a little bit of your James Daniel Lee know that they do not fit that and yet rose to greatness in homosexual people, is a con­life. You will probably be sur­Betty J. Bruther caricature. Some people make their fields. Unfortunately, stant reminder of the low posi-prised what a supportive reac-Carol .')tuart 




Accent
Wednesday, October 11 , 1989 page 9 

etcntion is a very real threat in South Africa, and it is but one more clement which makes liff' a constant struggle for black individuals. Under Section 29 of the Internal Sneurity Act, the Security Police have full lngal authorization to d1~tain any person at any time for any reason. In nssencc, Sec­tion 29 is a chief vehicle used against political opponents of the regime, and the legal provi­sion is a blatant bastardization of the Huln of the l.aw. 
Two 
South Africas 
By Mike Schadek 
Detnntion under Section 29 permits thn South African gov­ernment to silence protestors and critics of apartheid in a quick and efficient manner, all in the guise of "legal" proceed­ings. Thn reality of Section 29 is that it is a cruel and barbaric procedure which attempts to in­flict the greatest punishment to 1~nemies of the regime. The Sncurity Police is given unlimit­ed discretion during interroga­tion proc1wdings, and, simply stated, they are ruthless. 
Enormous pressure is placed on the detainees, including psy­chological and physical torture, intimidation, coercion and as­saults. Dehumanizing and de­grading treatment is the norm, such as lengthy interrogation and months of solitary con­finement. Furthermore, under Snction 29, access to family, frionds or oven a lawyer can bn and often is nullilied. It is a grand scheme to break the mental and physical faculties of the dntainen and ultimately to produce information which can be used against him at his trial. It is not surprising that a very high number of detainees under Snction 29 eventually sign "con­fessions" which arc then admit­tod in court. 
The tragic aspect of Section 29 is the fact that it is in effect ovcry day. Detention is a con­stant throat to those South Afri­cans who wish to become in­volved in the struggle against apartheid. An individual simply cannot bocomc too outspoken or too politically active due to the throat of governmental re­tribution and Section 29. This is one fundamental barrier to po­litical organization and mo­bilization of the black South Af­ricans. Also, inherent in the system is a basic mistrust of those you do not know ex­tremely well. Government in­formers infiltrate an enormous array of social and religious or­ganizations and they are eager to expose any suspected "ene­mies of the state" to the Securi­ty Police because they are re-

A Catholic archbishop, (third from left), and an Angli­can bishop, (fourth from left) , surround­ed by family members of a suspect on trial for anti­govenment ac­tivities. 
Photos by Mike Schadek. 



South African security police given unlimited authority to detain political opponents 
T
he reality of Section 29 is that it is a cruel and barbaric procedure which attempts to inflict the greatest punishment to enemies of the regime. 

Even children, such as these from the Crossroads, can be potential vic­tims of Section 29. 
warded handsomely. The fear of informers reaches every level of society, and I witnessed the effects during one of my visits to a colored township. After sit­ting in during a youth group meeting of teenagers, I noticed the participants weren't enthu­siastic about answering some of my questions, specifically those relating to the government and the South African Defense Force. Afterward, the group leader explained to me that probably at least two or three of the children were informers, so the other children had to be very careful not to say anything which may later incriminate themselves. 
During my visit, I became in­timately aware of the evil of de­tention at a personal level. Mr. Ngconde Balfour, a staff mem­ber of the Provincial Church at which Archbishop Tutu pre­sides, was coming into work at St. George's Cathedral in Febru­ary of this year. As he ap­proached his office, four men with guns jumped out of a van and proceeded to force him into the vehicle against his will. Luckily a fellow staff member had witnessed the event or Mr. Balfour would have simply dis­appeared as do so many black South Africans. In any event, Mr. Balfour has remained in de­tention under Section 29 since that day and he has not yet been charged with any crime. He has no access to a lawyer, and he is not permitted to see or call his family. The Security Police can hold him indefinitely, and the Commissioner of Police has ignored countless pleas by Tutu and others to either charge or release Mr. Balfour. Such is life under Section 29. 
P--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 10 The Observer Wednesday, October 11, 1989 
Tile Observer accepts class1ileds every busmess day from t 0 ,, m to 3 30 p rn .tt ""' Notre DillllH OffiCe. J14 LdFortune and from 12:30 to 3 p rn at till! s.wlt Marv s olfrce Haggnr College Center Deadline for next day cfassrf1eds IS 3 p m 1111 LI.JSSifr.,ds must be 
prepdld Tlte charge os 2 cents per character per day oncfud1ng spaws


Classifieds 
ENTREPRENEURS WANTED. NEED 6 SMU GA'S I have 2 GA's for both Pitt and WANTED: USC TIX BETWEEN I need a USC GA worse than all the Earn $5.000-$15.000 in a summer TIM 271-8795 USC. Best Offer 703-528-4367 THE 20 YD. LINES. WILL BUY OR rest of these lying schmucks II
NOTICES 
management position and gain EXCHANGE END ZONE SEATS+ John, 277-7450. PLEASE! 
valuable business experience. DESPERATELY IN NEED OF 3 CASH OR TICKETS TO NAVY. TYPING AVAILABLE. 
Triple "A" Student Painters. Call "need 2 USC ga's Rick #1795 USC TICKETS OR AS MANY AS PITI OR SMU. 800-323-7687. NEED 2 PITT TIX-ST or GA 287-4082. 
Scott Ruhl317-362-4234. SOMEONE HAS TO OFFER. CALL LINDA x2999 
USC Tickets Needed MONEY NO PROBLEM. CALL NEED USC TIX JOE 1714 PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard 
SPRING BREAK 1990 -Individual 3 GA's. Will pay$$$$. CARl AT 271-5651 HEY YOU! Yeah, you. The one 3 blks. from NO campus 233-2342 
or student organization needed to Call John at 283-2005. with the USC GA 's. Call John at $$$ FOR YOUR BOOKS 
promote our Spring Break trips. Help 2 NO GRADS driving from NEED 2 USC tickets Call 502-354-(2t9)-283-2005 for $$$$ or 2 SMU WE BUY AND SELL USED 
Earn money, tree trips and Houston.Need 2 USC tix--GA or 8826 collect. GA's. TEXTBOOKS 11111111111111111 
valuable work experience. APPLY student. Will pay $$$. Call Dena or 
NOW!! Call Inter-Campus I Need 2 or 4 PITI GA's Eric collect (713)669-8326. 1 or 2 NO/USC tickets wanted. Call You need TXTS. call277-3653 Spee-Dee 
Programs: 1-800-327-6013. -Call Doug x1 065 Mac COLLECT (509) 325-0519 Wordprocessing 
nights237-1949 
"NEEDED" NEED NAVY TIX!I! HAVE SMU SORRY Alumni SR. club is going to 
BASSIST FOR SALE!!! X2880 NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE PITT be closed Sat Oct. 14th due to Typing. Term papers, resumes, 
WE NEED A BASS PLA YER!I I need two student tickets to the GAME! CALL VANESSA AT administrative reasons .. etc. on IBM PC. Call Sue's 
CALL DAVE 2320 OR RICH 3213 USC game. Call Martha at x1331. X4933.$$$$ Secretarial Service at 299-0063. 
NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY Need student tickets tor USC. 
WORD PROCESSING 
I need 4 GA's and 2 Stud tickets Will pay$$$$. Call Bill, 27t-8483 272-8827 

FOR RENT 
Can I please have 2 GA's and 1 for NAVYII Call Steve@ x1661! NEED TWO GA'S FOR ANY student ticket tor the USC football NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY HOME GAME ---CALL NEED 2 USC GA'S BADLY! BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY game and 4 student tickets tor the PAUL X3406 CALL MOLLY X3885

LOST/FOUND 
219-291-7153 Pittsburgh one? I'm Tom and my 
phone number is 1128. Thank you. USC TKTS FOR SALE. MAKE US I NEED ST. TICKS FOR PITT I NEED 1 USC GA LOST: A REWARD IS OFFERED 
AN OFFER!277-6896 -----PAUL X3406-----Please call Tim @ 1772 TO ANYONE WHO FOUND MY 
I NEED TO TRADE 4 SMU OR HEWLETI-PACKARD NEED 8 USC TIX 

FOR SALE 
2 PITI GA'S FOR AS MANY CALCULATOR (MAYBE IN NSH). CALL2207
USC GA'S AS POSSIBLE HELP I MOM AND DAD WILL KILL FOR SALE:! USC & 1 PITI ST TIK THIS WAS A GRADUATION 
PLEASE CALL 284 5022. ME IF I DONT GET 2 GA'S FOR CHRIS X3360 PRESENT AND I NEED IT FOR BIG BUCKS 
MACE 
PITII YOU HAVE TICKETS. I BOTH CLASSES AND PAID FOR ANY 
HAVE$$$. PLEASE CALL X3832. SENTIMENTAL REASONS. HOMEGA'S
PROTECT YOURSELF I need USC,SMU and Miami GAs 4" purse size w/clip $9 local retail 
PLEASE CALL COLLEEN X2634. CALL PETE 
Mom and Dad are kind of weird. Mike 287-3087 I CAN IDENTIFY IT AT 277-7582
your price $7 limited supply call 
Even after seeing the boring NEED 4 NAVY GA's 
now 234-Q515 
Purdue game, they rarin' to see PlEASE CALL KARIN $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
more NO football. Help them out. x1321 WANTED: 2 OR 3 PITI GA'S MY BROWN LEATHER JACKET BIG BUCKS 
ONKYO TX-80 Receiver $170; 
They'll buy any two G.A.s for any WILL PAY BIG BUCKS!! AND DUKE SWEATSHIRT PAID FOR ANY 
Technics RS29R Tapedeck $160 
home game. CALL MOLLY AT 4992Boston Acoustics AGO Spk. $21 0
WERE TAKEN FROM THE HOMEGA'S
Call #3714 and leave a message. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$Call237-1826
ROCKNE BUILDING ON 10/5 ..................................,...... CALL PETE 
NEED 2 OR 3 USC GA'S BETWEEN 2 AND 3 O'CLOCK AT 277-7582
1 Pm STUD THEY HAVE MUCH PERSONAL 
I need USC tickets. If you have any TRACY X2613 NEED USC TICKETS VALUE TO ME-PLEASE 
1 USC & 1 PITI STD. TIX FOR 
to sell, call x.1692. Bust the 2 G A's , 2 STUD's RETURN, NO QUESTIONS 
SALE -CALL & MAKE OFFER 
Trojans. Call x4266 or 277-2290X2768
ASKED. REWARD GIVEN. NEED 2 PITT GAs 
NEED 2 OR 3 USC GA'S CINDY. 220 KNOTI. #4928. CALL x1662 
NEED 2 or 4 Prtt GA's 1 PmSTUD
TANDY COMPUTER, COLOR 
Call Eric xt 008 $$$$ TRACY X2613 I NEED FOUR USC STUD. TIXMONITOR, DOT MATRIX Need 2 SMU GA's.Call Sue x4702 BIG $$$ CALL PETE 232-4208PRINTER,FOUND -3 keys on a wooden NO 
NEED 2 USC GA'S NEED 4USC key chain at party on NO Ave. They Need 4 Miami Ga's. and/or USC 
DESK/HUTCH & CHAIR 
MIKE x3501 2NAVY are dorm keys. Call 2798 stud tix. Mike x2093. 
$2,000.00 OR BEST OFFER. 
2 SMU TIX NOW 1$!$!$ I need 4 SMU GA's KIM 3881
CALL AFTER 6PM 234-3131. 
NEED 1 USC & 1 PITT GA CALL CALL STEVE #1650 LOST: MINOL TA FREEDOM 
1655 OR4224COLOR TV RENTALS
ZOOM 90 CAMARA. LAST SEEN I need 2 tickets to Air Force! 
We need USC student tickets and Need 2 USC GA's or STUD IN MAIN CIRCLE. NOT INSURED, Please call Kathy at 2636
19-INCH, $70/SEM, $120/YR; 
NEED GA'S FOR USC AND PITT. 2 Navy GA's. Please call Brian or and 2 PITT GA's or STUD25-INCH, $90/SEM, $160/YR NOT PAID FOR, VERY, VERY 
Matt at x.1695. (Parents will pay BIG $$$$) VALUABLE Ill CALL PETE AT 
CALL CHRIS AT x1067
FREE DELIVERY 
I have 2 NAVY GAs Call CHRIS at x3278 11863 ANYTIME! $100.00 I need 2 SMU GAs 
COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272­REWARD. 
5959 I NEED PITI, SMU GA'S I NEED ... 4 MIAMI ga's Let's swap --Call Mickey x 1689 PLEASE!! #2819 ... 2 PITT ga's ... 1 USC stud I NEED USC STUDENT TIX LOST: Signet Ring wrtr> inrtials 
I HAVE $$$$ Call Jeff at 3555 I need 3 SMU GA's and 4 MIAMI AS WELL AS GA'S WFH lost in south quad by Alumni. 
One way ticket. SB to ALBANY NY 
TIX. Call Don x2335 CALL LLOYD AT xt684 Important sentimental 
leaving Fri. 10/14 FOR SALE 
NEED PITT GA'S USC GRAD WANTS TO SEE HIS reasons. Please call Bill at 1553. 
CHEAP Call x3442. 
BETH 3706 TEAM GET STOMPED. Wants to $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ You will be rewarded , I promise NEED USC AND MIAMI GA'S 
pay tor the pleasure. Thank you very much. 
ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT WILL GIVE BLANK CHECK!!!!!!! 
NEED USC TIX CHERYL x2629 2 GAs needed ... 233 6298 HAVE PITI STUD TO TRADESEIZED VEHICLES from $100. 
CALL JEFF AT 1505. $$$$$ FOR USC CALL #2515Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, Fri. night Club 23 Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1­
I don't care about the coat. I only I have 2 USC GA's; will trade for 
602-838-8885 EXT. A6262. 
want the silver barrel in the pocket 2 Pitt GA's; call Mark x3331 or · I need GA's and STUD TIX tor $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Need two USC and two PITT tix. PLEASE only momenta of x3332 USC and PITI will pay$$$ I NEED Pm GA'S AND Call Luke x3113 
AMPLIFIER-EV SPKRS, 300 WT STUDENT TIX.
deceased motherll Call Tim 1478 
HEAD, HSA CABINET. HORN. 
mo 3536 Springbrook Drive Will trade 2 SMU GA's for Pitt or CALL CHRIS AT 283-4220. TICKETS WANTED FOR PITI-ND
GREAT CONDITION. $250. CALL 
SB, IN 46614 (291-6428) USC GA's; call Mark x3331 or Want USC stud. tix. Will trade SMU GAME. 312-655-4595. 
277-8475. 
x3332 or$$$ X4708 NEED DESPERATELY TWO USC­HAVE: 4 stud Pitt tics Dolby B&C Tape Deck:$50; 
NO TICKETS. WILL PAY TOP NEED TO TRADE FOR: 4 Pitt GA's I need 1 USC stud tix; call BillAuto Reverse Boom Box:$75; 

WANTED 
x3363 PLEASE HELP !!!!!!! DOLLAR ($$$) CALL FRANK call Chris @ #1306 
t9" Color TV:$200; 
IMMEDIATELY !!I Help Wanted: Small S.B. book 
I need 2 PITT GA'S and 3 USC Call Mark at 271-0672 DAY-(412) 658-2000 
Need 1 USC ticket-stud. or GA STUD or GA'S. I am desperate! $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ publisher seeks part-time Call Wendy x4036 Please don't make my ta11ily & EVENING-(412) 654-6176. $ LUST, GREED. HATE I $ assistant. Call afternoons 232­
friends waste a trip. $ FOR WHATEVER REASON, $ 3134. 
PLEASE CAll Paul x2032 NEED 2 TICKETS FOR NOTRE $PLEASE SELL PITT GA'S '$Need SMU Ga's 
ACADEMIC GOWN, DOCTORAL 
DAME/USC GAME. PLEASE CALL $ CALL MARK--271-8860 $·••• CASH TODAY •••• for USC HOOD, MORTAR BOARD, 
Call Mark 1890 
COLLECT 619/565-8303. ASK $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$EXCELLENT CONDITION. $45. 
,PITI tix stu or ga -Mark 271­
Travel Tour Operator needs FOR LARRY CORRIGAN. 5691. 
2 Tixs to all Home Games for sale 
239-7405 OR 232-6415. 
tickets for all N.D. games -home HAVE 2 USC Cecilia 233-8493 and away, especially MSU. USC Looking to trade 2-4 Pitt GA's tor Need two Navy Ga's together 
272-5092 
SELLING 
and Miami. Premium price paid. 2-4 Penn St. tix. Please call Bo Call Wally at t 388 
ATIENTION I! HAVEST. TKTS. 
Win a trip for two to
Immediate case available. Will at x2352 it interested. 
RESERVATIONS FOR 272-9719 trade for all major sporting events 
the Miami game 
GRADUATION 1990 WILL "DEAL" 
WANTED-nde to Ohio on 80-90 E. including Final 4, Indy 500 and 
GA'S FOR ANY '89 HOME GAME 
$1 for 1 chance 
leaving after USC game. will share bowl game. etc. Will also buy HELP!! My Dad. Agamemnon. just 
CALL DEBBIE AT 284-5202 expenses please call Kevin x1647 season tickets. Please call Dave at hates the Trojans. I need 

TICKETS 
$3 for 5 chances 
1-800-828-8955 today. 4GAstoUSC.I NEED A NAVY GA FOR MOM 
TOP$ 
$5 for 1 0 chances 
BEACH MEt Sunchase Ski & Please call Marty at 277-4392
MONEY NO PROBLEM ALL HOME GA'S 
Beach Breaks is hrring Campus Need two SMU tix please call 284­
Contact Sophomore 
call Scott x1635 after 8:30pm312-920-9350
Representatives to promote 4930!!1!1!!!1! 
Class Office 
Spring Break to South Padre BELIEVE IT OR NOT, I NEED 2 Island, Mustang Island, Hilton $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ SMU GA's, I'LL EVEN PAY$$ 
239-5525

"'TRADE""TRADE""TRADE'"
I NEED USC, MIAMI. & ALL HOME 
Head Island. Ft Lauderdale. Need SMU and NAVY GA's: x2629
My Navy Stud for your USC Stud 
M-F 1-1'\
GAME TIX 272-6306 
Daytona Beach, and Steamboat. Call Jim at 287-9854
Call Julie X3864 We pay TOP commissions & FREE $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
NAVYNAVYNAVYNAVYNAVY
trips! Call 1-800-321-5911 today NEED 2 NAVY GA'S 
I need 5 G.A. 's 
PERSONALS
for a tree applicatron packet. WILL PAY TOP$ 
or anything you have together I need 1 SMU GA. 2 PITT TIX. Pay
Campus groups & organizations I'll buy any tickets for any home PLEASE CALL KEVIN x3170
$$$ x11 03 BILLNAME YOUR PRICE!!!!
welcome! game, or Miami.
Call Kyle-#3775 CLUB 23 Stop by tor Amiable 
call JEFF at 239-3714, PITT PITT PITT PITT PITI PITT
Have-1 Prtt stud tix. John x2292OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo. leave a message. Thanks. PITI PITI PITT PITT PITI PITT 
atmosphere. daily & weekly Summer, Yr. round. All Countries. specials. pool table, English darts. All fields. Free into. Write IJC. PO and great company. 234-3541
I need 4 GA's and 2 Stud's for the 
I need GAs to USC and PITT IF YOU HAVE A USC STUDENT 
BX 52-Corona Del Mar CA 92625 PITI game. Call Mike@ x1714.
Call Dan at 271-982t TICKET TO SELL PLEASE CALL Need TXTS All Games call Bill LISA 4937 277-3653
NEEDED RIDE TO ST L FOR ARTS AND LETIERS CAREER
PITI PITT PITT PITT PITI PITI BREAK LEAVE AFTER USC­DAY. 30 CAREERS 
PITI PITT PITT PITT PITT PITT 
USC and NAVY
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
RETURN ANYTIME (PREF. 10/29) REPRESENTED. TODAY 
WANTED: MIAMI TICKETS G.A.'s and Student needed BIG MONEY FOR USC TICKETS 
WILL SHARE EXPENSES. 12:00 noon-4:00p.m. C.C.E 
CALL MATT AT 1961 x1927 I NEED 10. STUDENT or GA 
DRIVING KATHY X3948 ALL MAJORS INVITED. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Call FRANK 287-5320 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR BOTH PITI. RIDE OFFD 10/13-15 TO DTROIT 
AND NAVY CALL CHERIE 4969 
NEED GAS FOR PITT,
OR ANY TOWN ON WAY X2768 
TRADE: 2 Senior tix (sec. 29) for Pitt Student Tickets Needed NAVY & SMU $$$$ ADOPTION: loving couple 
any two GA's tor USC-call Pete #1097 CALL TOM & MARTY 
dreamrng of adopting white infant.
I am looking tor any USCvs.ND 
2 USC Stud Tix for sale-Call 
X1699 X 3185 
LET'S HELP EACH OTHER!
T-shirts. Call Chris at x.1692. 
x1330-Leave name/ph#lbid by 
Legal/confidential. Expenses paid. 
noon 8/14

I need 3 tickets $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Call Lillian and Ed collect. 
ATTENTION-HIRING! UNDvs PITT Need 2 SMU Ga's NEED 3 PITI GA TIX 
ANYTIME (212) 645-4344 
Government jobs -your area. Reasonable $$ $150 for both 
$$ CALL: 4272 NEED TIX NEED TIX NEED TIX 
$17,840-$69.485. Callt-602-Call K. Sherry 232-2051 Call Sven at x1770 
4 Navy and 4 SMU. all stud tix. 
838-8885. Ext R6262 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Please help! Jenny/Colleen x1330 
see CLASS I page 5 
-, 


Sports Wednesday
October 11 , 1989 page 11 
-~---~ ---~---~---------~ 
I NFL STANDINGS 
East 
w  L  T  
Buffalo 3  2  0  
lndnplis 3  2  0  
Miami 2  3  0  
N England2  3  0  
NY Jets 1  4  0  
Central  
Cincnnati 4  1  0  
Cleveland3  2  0  
Houston 2  3  0  
Pittsbrgh 2  3  0  
West  
Denver 4  1  0  
Kan. City 2  3  0  
LA Raidrs2  3  0  
San Diego2  3  0  
Seattle 2  3  0  
East  
w  L  T  
NY Giants4  1  0  
Phila 3  2  0  
Washngtn3  2  0  
Phoenix 2  3  0  
Dallas 0  5  0  
Central  
Chicago 4  1  0  
Green Bay3  2  0  
Minnesota3  2  0  
Tampa Bay3  2  0  
Detroit 0  5  0  
West  
LARams 5  0  0  
San Fran 4  1  0  
Atlanta 1  4  0  
New0r1ns1  4  0  

SCOREBOARD 
ResuHs from Oct. 4-10 Football (5-0) Notre Dame 27, Stanford 17 
Volleyball (5-9) Ohio State del. Notre Dame, 7-15, 8­15, 15-13,7-15 Notre Dame del. Northern Illinois, 15-8, 15-9, 15-13 Notre Dame del. Eastern Michigan, 6­15,7-15, 16-14,19-17, 15-2 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Pet .600 .600 .400 .400 .200 
.800 .800 .400 .400 
.800 .400 .400 .400 .400 
Pet .800 .600 .600 .400 .000 
.800 .600 .600 .600 .000 
1.000 .800 .200 .200 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
FF PA Home 133 140 1-1-0 108 94 2-1-0 101 126 1-2-0 73 116 1-2-0 105 129 0-3-0 
123 74 2-0-0 129 71 2-0-0 134 142 1-1-0 76 135 1-2-0 
122 81 3-0-0 87 111 1-1-0 114 100 1-1-0 00 109 1-1-0 95 108 0-2-0 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
FF PA Home 135 79 2-0-0 135 128 2-1-0 137 118 0-2-0 00 126 0-2-0 54 146 0-2-0 
164 103 3-0-0 148 132 3-1-0 100 92 3-0-0 104 103 2-1-0 74 134 0-3-0 
142 102 3-0-0 124 101 0-1-0 92 114 1-1-0 106 95 1-2-0 
Soccer 
Men's (5·5·2) 
Notre Dame 0, Cal State-Los Angeles 0 (OT) Santa Clara 4, Notre Dame 0 
Women's (8-6) Notre Dame 2, St. Joseph 1 (2 OT) Notre Dame 3, Miami (Ohio) 0 Notre Dame 17, Tri-State 0 
Men's Goff 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL  
Men's Results & Standings as of Oct. 8  
Rockne  
Sarin del. Fisher 7-6  Sorin  2-0  
Carroll del. Pangborn 8-6  Carroll  2-1  
Pangborn  1-1  
Fisher  1-2  
Leahy  
Cavanaugh del. Alumni 7-0  Cavanaugh  3-0  
Zahm del. Holy Cross 13-0  Alumni  1-1  
Zahm  1-1  
HolyCross  0-2-1  
Parseghian  
Grace del. Flanner 15-0  Off-Campus  3-0  
Morrissey del. Keenan 12-6  Grace  3-0  
Off-Campus del. Dillon 14-10  Dillon  1-2  
Morrissey  1-2  
Women's Results & Standings as Oct. 8  
Pasquerilla East del. Pasquerilla West 7-6  Farley  5-0  
Breen-Phillips del. Badin 8-0  Lyons  4-2  
Farley del. Lewis 14-0  Howard  4-1  
Lyons del. Siegfied 14-0  Siegfried  3-1  
Breen-Phillips  3-0  


is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Production Manager 
A resume and a personal statement should be submitted to Alison Cocks by Thursday, October 12. Any questions, call Alison at 239­7471 or 283-4059. 
Away 2-1-0 1-1-0 1-1-0 1-1-0 1-1-0  AFC 3-2-0 2-0-0 2-3-0 2-3-0 1-4-0  NFC 0-0-0 1-2-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0  Div 2-1-0 2-0-0 1-2-0 1-2-0 1-2-0  
2-1-0 1-2-0 1-2-0 1-1-0  4-0-0 3-2-0 2-2-0 0-3-0  0-1-0 0-0-0 0-1-0 2-0-0  3-0-0 1-1-0 0-0-0 0-3-0  
1-1-0 1-2-0 1-2-0 1-2-0 2-1-0  4-1-0 2-3-0 2-3-0 1-3-0 2-1-0  0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 1-0-0 0-2-0  3-0-0 2-2-0 1-3-0 1-2-0 1-1-0  
Away 2-1-0 1-1-0 3-0-0 2-1-0 0-3-0  AFC 0-0-0 1-0-0 0-0-0 1-1-0 0-0-0  NFC 4-1-0 2-2-0 3-2-0 1-2-0 0-5-0  Div 3-1-0 2-0-0 2-2-0 0-2-0 0-2-0  
1-1-0 0-1-0 0-2-0 1-1-0 0-2-0  1-0-0 0-0-0 1-1-0 0-0-0 0-1-0  3-1-0 3-2-0 2-1-0 3-2-0 0-4-0  2-1-0 0-1-0 2-1-0 2-1-0 0-2-0  
2-0-0 4-0-0 0-3-0 0-2-0  1-0-0 1-0-0 0-1-0 0-0-0  4-0-0 3-1-0 1-3-0 1-4-0  3-0-0 1-1-0 0-2-0 0-1-0  

Notre Dame won its second MCC Championship, scoring 923 over the 54-hole tournament. Mike O'Connell and Pat Mohan led the Irish with 230 
apiece. 
Men's and Women's Cross Country The men placed second in the Notre Dame Invitational behind Central Michigan with 77 points while the women finished sixth with 166. 
NVA ACTION 
INTERHALL SOCCER 

League1 
Keenan del. Holy Cross 1-0 
St. Ed's del. Law School , forfeit 
Off-Campus Tiller del. Fisher 
Keenan  4-Q  
St.Ed's  3-1  
League2  

Grace del. Flanner 4-2 Stanford del. Holy Cross-B Off-Campus Dynosaurs del. Dillon 2-1 
Grace-A 3-1 O.C. Dynosaurs 2-2 
League3 Pangborn del. Alumni 1-0 Grace del. Zahm 2-1 
P.B. Antelopes 4-0 Alumni 3-1 
League4 Morrissey del. Dillon 2-0 Zahm del. Carroll 4-1 
Sarin 3-0 O.C. Hooch 2-1 
SPORTS LIST 
Weigh to go! 
Heaviest players in the NFL, 1989* 
1. 
William Perry, DT, Bears 

2. 
Todd Peat, OL, Cardinals 

3. 
Mike Charles, DL, Chargers 

4. 
Bruce Davis, OL, Oilers 

5. 
Tony Mandarich, OL, Packers 

6. 
Howard Ballard, OL, Bills 

7. 
Zefross Moss, OL, Colts 


TOP 25 POLL 
The Top Twenty Five teams in the Associated Press college football poll, with first-place votes in parentheses, records through Oct. 7, total points based on 25­24-23-22-21-20-19-18-17-16-15-14-13­12-11-10-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1 and last 
week's ranking: Record 
1. Notre Dame (54) 
2. Miami, Fla. (4) 3. Colorado (2) 
4. Nebraska 
5. Michigan 
6. 
Tennessee 

7. 
Arkansas 

8. 
Houston 


9. Pittsburgh 10.SouthernCa/ 
11 . Alabama 
12. 
Auburn 

13. 
N. Carolina St. 

14. 
Clemson 

15. 
Oklahoma 16.111inois 


17. Air Force 
Pts Pvs 5-0-0 1 ,494 1 5-0-0 1 ,428 2 5-0-0 1,371 3 5-0-0 1 ,298 4 3-1-0 1 ,232 5 5-0-0 1,205 6 4-0-0 1 , 1 08 7 4-0-0 1 ,002 12 
4-0-1 4-1-0 4-0-0 3-1-0 6-0-0 5-1 -0 4-1-0 3-1-0 6-0-0 994 8 951 9 888 1 3 869 11 727 14 684 1 5 679 16 593 18 498 20 498 21 470 22 394 9 273 24 226 25 

(tie) Washington St.  5-1-0  
19. Florida St.  3-2-0  
20. West Virginia  4-1-1  
21. Michigan St.  2-2-0  
22. UCLA  3-2-0  
23. Penn St.  4-1-0  
24. South Carolina  4-1-1  
25. Brigham Young  4-1-0  
(tie) Florida  4-1-0  

82  
77  - 
66  - 
66  - 

Other receiving votes: Syracuse 64, Texas Tech 58, Fresno St. 43, Louisville 27, Arizona 25, Texas A&M 22, Virginia 20, Virginia Tech 20, Hawaii 15, Indiana 13, Washington 11, Georgia 4, Oregon 3, E. Michigan 2. 
WORLD SERIES 
Saturday, Oct. 14-at Oakland, 8:31p.m. 
Sunday, Oct. 15-at Oakland, 8:28 p.m. 
Tuesday, Oct. 17-at San Francisco, 8:31 p.m. 
Wednesday, Oct. 18-at San Francisco, 8:28 p.m. 
Thursday, Oct. 19-at San Francisco, 8:28p.m., if necessary 
Saturday, Oct. 21 -at Oakland, 
8:28 p.m., if necessary 
Sunday, Oct. 22-at Oakland, 8:28 p.m., if necessary 

SENIOR CLUB BILLIARDS 
9-BALL 

3-CUSHION BILLIARDS SNOOKER 
WE HAVE THE BEST "SHOOTIN" TABLES IN THE AREA, WITH A QUIET PLAYING ATMOSPHERE. EVERYONE PLAYS "POOL" AT THE: 
SENIORS CLUB BILLIARDS 
603 E. WASHINGTON 
SOUTH BEND 233-0301 
OPEN MONDAY THRU SATURDAY 9 AM-? 
320 Pounds 318 Pounds 315 Pounds 315 
SPORTS CALENDAR 
Sports Calendar Home games in CAPS Wednesday 

No sports scheduled Thursday Women's golf at Franklin Invitational 
Friday 
Women's soccer vs. ALMA, 5 p.m. Men's soccer vs. AKRON, 7:30 p.m. Men's golf at Buckeye Fall Classic Volleyball vs ILLINOIS STATE, 7:30 p.m. 
Saturday Volleyball vs. TEXAS, 7:30 p.m. Football at Air Force Men's golf at Buckeye Fall Classic 
Sunday Men's golf Buckeye Fall Classic 
Monday 
Volleyball vs. PENNSYLVANIA, 7:30 p.m. 
Tuesday Men's soccer vs. VALPARAISO No sports scheduled 



-


page 12 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
NVA Deadline for co-ree basketball, men's and women's interhall volleyball and badminton singles and doubles is Wednesday, Oct. 11. Rosters should be submitted to the NVA office by 5 p.m. Call 239-6100 for more information. 
Squash Club will meet tonight on court 1 at 7 p.m. 
Ben Hogan, says his company has decided to spend 15 million dollars over the next three years for a proving­ground PGA Tour as a way of paying back the sport he loves. 
Chris Evert, 34, and Martina Navratilova, 32, handled a pair of 17-year olds-Conchita Martinez and Arantxa Sanchez Vicario-leading the United States past Spain in the final of the Federation Cup in Tokyo, Japan. 
Vinnie Johnson, of the Detroit Pistons, fractured his ribs in last Friday's practice when he tripped over a charging Jon Slalley. The Pistons number-three guard will be out for 10 days to two weeks with injury. 
The American League said Monday that no action will be taken on Cito GAston's complaint that the Athletic's Dennis Eckersley used a foreign substance during Game of the Toronto-Oakland playoff series. 
Chuck Noll, Coach of the Pittsburgh Steelers confirmed a long-standing NFL rumor: Pro Bowl offensive tackle Tunch Ilkin tips plays to oppossing defenses. 
, 
•\ 
The Observer Wednesday, October 11, 1989 

Walker's future with Dallas shaky 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas-The Dallas Cowboys had an open "fire sale" on running back Herschel Walker while NFL owners met several miles away 
Tuesday trying to pick  a  new  
commissioner.  
Agents  Peter  Johnson  and  

Ralph Cindrich were consider­ing a restructuring of Walker's $1 million per year contract as part of the price for him leaving the Cowboys. 
Coach Jimmy Johnson met with Cindrich for two hours at the hotel where the owners were meeting Tuesday after­noon, but avoided reporters by taking a fire escape out. He barked a terse "No comment" when asked if there was any­thing new about the possible Walker trade. 
"The ball's in Herschel's court now," a Cowboys' source said. "It's up to him to make a deal." 

of ·school Daze• & ·no the 7:00 
in Stapleton 
Rll Fresh•en and Sopho•ores buy your this •eek-•atch on Friday the 
Tl 

STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
..._, .l. .l. I I 
SAIRT IIARY"S COLLEGE 
GUYSWHOWANTTO MEET HOT BABES!!!! Come be a part of the TI~TI§IHI ffi)\{Jp)~IE§§ 1uggage service ''When it absolutely, positively has to be at the main circle." Interested? Contact Student Government 239-7668  

---~ ----~--------~-­
Wednesday, October 11, 1989 The Observer page 13 
Lennon scored on a penalty kick for a 9-0 lead. Three
Soccer Mihalko
minutes later, junior forward 


Farley downs Lewis 
continued from page 16 Bernie Holland added .an continued from page 16 
seemed an eternity, until Margaret Jarc electrified the Irish fans with an unassisted goal at 35:54 of the first half, giving coach Dennis Grace's team a 7-0 bulge. 
This lead did not last for long, however, as Margaret Jarc drilled a monstrous shot past the Tri-State keeper unassisted, giving the Irish women a halftime advantage of 8-0. Jarc's third goal gave her the first hat trick of her Notre Dame career, and also tied her in the record books with Susie Zilvitis and K.T. Sullivan for Most Goals in a game. Jarc also tied Susie Zilvitis for Most Goals in a half, with three. 
More records were left to be shattered, however, and at 2:20 of the second half, Molly 
......~..& 
unassisted goal, and two minutes after that, Joy Sisolak made her presence felt again, scoring (unassisted) her second goal of the contest. At this point, true disaster struck the Tri-State Women of Troy, as their lone bench player suffered a knee injury, and was unavailable for substitution the rest of the game. 
Comfortably leading 11-0, Notre Dame continued its intense play. 
Said coach Grace, "We have a tough schedule, and it's not often that we can dominate, su I think we were lucky to tak'l advantage of the opportunities we had. We've been playing well recently, and we're really pushing for the record (winning streak)." 
ND-SMC 
~· ~._., STUDENTS
fO~••~ 17th Annual Program 


f'tondon 
May 23-June 27 
Travel in Ireland, 
Scotland, and France 
Courses offered in 
Rome 
June 17-July 16 
Travel in France, 
Germany, and 
Switzerland 
BIO, ART, BUSINESS and ECONOMICS HISTORY, ITAllAN, SOCIOLOGY ' 
MEETING Monday Oct. 16 Carroll Hall, SMC 
**Past student and faculty participants will be present Free Pizza For All Attending 
For information call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 
By RICHARD MATHURIN Sports Writer 
The Women's interhall foot­ball season is reaching the crucial part of the season and the playoff picture is taking form. Highlighting this week's play were the women of Farley who knocked off 1988 champi­ons from Lewis. 
"We wanted to revenge last years semifinal loss," said Farley defensive captain Connie Boyden, after her team shutout defending champion Lewis 14­0. 
Farley used a ferocious de­fense and a well timed passing game to win the most pivotal game of the season so far. 
Freshman Kathryn Anne Baumel's second half touch­down sealed the win for the 
Finest,  who  remained  unde­ 
feated.  
Superstar  running  back  

Kristy Alkidas scored the only touchdown in Breen Phillips 8-0 
win over Badin. Captain Mary Beth Roveda attributed the win to, "balance on both offense and defense." The Blitz also remained undefeated but will have to wait until the playoffs for a showdown with Farley. 
Lyons moved its record to 4­2 with a 14-0 victory over Siegfried. Michelle Richards and Debbie Mitchell both scored touchdowns for Lyons, and Natasha Gaul had two in­terceptions. 
The game marked the return of Lyons quarterback Liz Holtz from injury. 
"We're looking forward to rematches with Breen Phillips and Farley in the playoffs," said Lyons captain Liz Nolan. 
In other action, Tomi Otey returned a punt 60 yards to set up a score and had an intercep­tion to lead Walsh to an 18-8 victory over Knott. Liz Toohey, Colleen Stepan and Jeannie Trezvant all scored touchdowns for Walsh in the win. 

that much greater." 
Mihalko earned a monogram for his backup role at fullback in 1988 and then went on to earn the Hering Award as the most improved Irish offensive back during '89 spring drills. 
This year Mihalko will take on a much greater role for the Irish. He has carried 5 times for 20 yards, including 3 rushes for 10 yards against Stanford. He also had a six yard reception against the Cardinal. Mihalko sees this year as another step up the ladder. 
More than just carrying the ball, Mihalko is known as a good blocker. 
"I take pride in my blocking," said Mihalko. "I have a size ad­vantage so if that's what the team needs, that's what I'll do. 
Running Back coach Jim Strong agrees that Mihalko is a fine blocker. 
"Ryan takes a lot of pride in what he's doing," says Strong. "He finds his landmarks and makes good sight adjustments. He's fundamentally sound, but the key to blocking is attitude." 
Ryan Mihalko certainly has the right attitude. Coach Strong not only sees Ryan Mihalko as a good football player, but a good person. 
"As a player, he's relentless," said Strong. " He's physical and absolutely intense all day in practice on every play. When we get freshman in and we want them to develop the correct work habits, we tell them to go watch Ryan Mihalko." 
That, ladies and gentleman, is what has made Ryan Mihalko a factor for Notre Dame and will continue to him a great player. 



a consu tant at 
candidates a great city, outstanding opportunities and an exciting work environment that will let you put your best foot forward. 
On November 13th, we will be recruiting through the Colleges of Engineering, Business, and Arts and Letters. Contact your Recruiting Office for more information. 

~~te Consulting 
©1989 Lame Corporation, Chicago, IL. 60601 
We're Lame Corporation. One of America's fastest growing microcomputer consulting firms. And this Wednesday, October 11th,we're coming to campus to give an overview of Lame to interested graduates at 7 p.m. in the Alumni Room of the Morris Inn. 
If you're an upcoming graduate with a passion for microcomputers and the possibilities they offer, we'd like to talk with you. A desire to consult for a wide range of firms from high growths to Fortune 500 companies makes you even more important to us. 
We're located in the heart of Chicago's Loop and we can offer qualified 
__________________________________________________________j 

third and fourth, respec­their sights on the Buckeye tively. Fall Classic which will be The Irish placed four play­held this coming weekend at ers in the tournament's top Ohio State University. 

SMU SCHOOL OF LAW DALLAS, TX 
Susan K. Bryant, Asst. Dean and Director of Admissions will be on campus 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 17 
from 2:00-5:00 p.m. in the Career Center to talk with interested students about admissions and financial aid. There will also be a Mock Admissions Committee Program from 7:00-8:00p.m. sponsored by the Pre-law Society. 
ACCOUNTING SENIORS 
PLANNING TO TAKE THE Mil. Y 1990 CPA EXAM 
AR~ INVITED TO ATTEND A MEETING TO DISCUSS THE NOTRE DAME CPA REVIEW PROGRAM INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
Associated Press 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. (AP) -Freshman Gino Torretta's 2­0 record as a fill-in quarterback for the Miami Hurricanes might earn him occasional playing time after injured starter Craig Erickson returns, Coach Dennis Erickson said Tuesday. 
"When Craig is healthy and he's 100 percent, then he's going to be the quarterback," the coach said. "But if things aren't going well, I'm not afraid to put Gino in for a couple of series." 
Craig Erickson, a junior and first-year starter, broke a knuckle on his throwing hand in the first half of Miami's game Sept. 30 at Michigan State. Torretta came in and directed the Hurricanes to 23 points in their 26-20 victory. 
Last Saturday, Torretta completed 13 of 16 passes for 239 yards and three touchdowns as the second­ranked Hurricanes blitzed Cincinnati 56-0. 
"Gino's not better than Craig right now," Coach Erickson said. "That's nothing against Gino. lie has played outstanding. lle'll play outstanding this week." 
The Hurricanes play San Jose State on Saturday. A bye precedes the Miami-Florida State showdown Oct. 28. The coach is hoping that Craig Erickson will be healthy and able to face the Seminoles. 
"In my mind that's what we're shooting for. But we really won't know for a couple of weeks." 
The quarterback had surgery to repair the knuckle fracture one day after the injury and had the hand placed in a brace. Therapy has begun to decrease the swelling. 
Miami's offense struggled at times in the 3 1/2 games in which the strong-armed Erickson has played. !lis statistics include 75 completions in 146 attempts for 1,001 yards, with eight touchdowns and six interceptions. Erickson's rating is 118.8; Torretta's is 144.6. 
"Craig's the No. 1 quarterback," the coach said. "He earned it over a long period of time, and he has played well. He has improved through the season." 
Torretta, a 19-year-old redshirt freshman, did not seem inclined Tuesday to stir up controversy at Quarterback u. 
"If I was the starter and went down with an injury, I would hope the coach would have enough confidence to put me back in," Torretta said. "I can understand that." 
Torretta isn't the Hurricanes' only talented freshman quarterback. Bryan Fortay, one of the nation's most heavily recruited prep quarterbacks last winter, made his collegiate debut in the second half of the Cincinnati game. 
"I didn't impress myself too much," Fortay said Tuesday after reviewing films. "I looked like a freshman. I was tenative and nervous." 
Coach  Erickson  scrapped  
plans  to  reshirt  Fortay,  18,  
because  of  the  injury  to  

quarterback Erickson. 
"My thoughts were that we really had to have a second quarterback that could compete, that had some experience, so that if Gino got hurt we would (still have) an opportunity to compete for the national championship," the coach said. 
He said Fortay might be redshirted next season. 

The Observer Is always looking fqr talent. If you have any, cqme to our Qfflces and start working qn yqur newspaper. 
STUDENT DISCOUNT 
AVAILABLE 
DETAILS AT MEETING OR CALL 
EXECUTIVE PROGRAMS 


Wednesday, October 11, 1989 The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 
Wednesday 
7 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents a recep­tion for all E&CE, MCC, CAPP, and MIS students inter­ested in discovering career opportunities with the Lante Corporation, Alumni Room, Morris Inn. 
8:10 p.m. ND/SMC Theatre presents "Tartuffe," Wash­ington Hall. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Wednesday 
2:30p.m. IBM series in Nanoelectronics presents "Monte Carlo Simulation of Electron Transport in Small Semi­conductor Devices," by Dr. Massimo Fischetti, IBM Wat­son Research Center, Room 258 Fitzpatrick Hall. 
4:20 p.m. Physics Department presents "Recent Results from the Fly's Eye Cosmic Ray Detector," by Bruce Daw­son, University of Utah, Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
4:30 p.m. Biological Sciences presents "Neuropeptide Processing, Packaging and Transport: The Cell Biology of a Simple Behavior," by Prof. Richard Scheller, Room 283 Galvin Life Sciences. 
7 p.m. Intellectual Life commission presents "The Last 10 Years of Political/Economic Reform in China," by Dr. Peter Moody and Prof. Kwan Kim, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Teriyaki Cubed Steak Veal Scallopini Meatballs Florentine Omlette Veggie Casserole French Bread Pizza Veal Parmesan Grinder Deli Bar 
ACROSS 25 Kingdom 27 In the manner of 
1 Cleopatra's the U.S 
snake Government
4"1-itoutof 
31 "Beautiful--,"

women's faces": 1918 hit song 
Shak. 32 Greek Cupid 
10 Director's command 33 Marcello's farewell
13 RR depot 34 Raised
14 Mesh ornamentation15 Tree of the olive 36 J. Low org. 
family 38 Diarist Ana·ls
16--Borch, Dutch painter 39 Marvel at 17 "Moonlight in 42 Mission --,"Whiting's 44 Oahu garland 1944 hit 45 Swift-running 19 Beam of light bird 20 A Met score 47 Physics preceder 22 Famous uncle 48 Pelion's 23 --contendere supporter (legal plea) 50 Facts, informally 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

52 Ruler division 55"0n,-"(a 
state song) 57 Dazzling effect 59 Palindromic 

name 60 Request 62 "The Battle Hymn 
.. "Iyris! 63 Wildebeest 65 Methuselah, e.g. 68 Sociologist 
Weber 69 Auction follower 70 Geological 
epoch 71 Actress-singer 

Zadora 72 Son of Gad 73 Stable sounds 74 Sonny's sibling 
DOWN 

1 "When You Wish Upon-, 1940 song 
2 Sound system 3 Outcast 4 Tolstoy's first 
name 5 Chemical suffixes 6 Small cramp 

irons 7 Butter 8 --Dinh Diem 
of S. Vietnam 9"-Waltz," Page hit 


10 "--Moon," 1928 hit 11 "Born in the " Springsteen hit 12 Word among 
Friends 18 High, craggy hill 21 Plausible excuse 24 Varnish 
ingredient 26 Singer Melba 28 Man's best 
friend 29 Reclined 

30 "-Cassius . .": Shak. 35 Fla. Indians 37 Ade book 39 Down, at sea 40 An Arnaz 41 "-Waltz" (a state song) 43 Horse farm 
46 Us, in Bonn 47 Chimera or Minotaur 49 Deed 
51 Complete failure 
53 Walks heavily 
54 "Blue-," 193Y song 56 Siouan 58 "The Yellow Rose 
of-,"1853 song 
61 Painter Rockwell 
63 Turn right 64 Saul's uncle or grandfather 
66 Put on 
67 In medias-

COMICS 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
A Bl\~0\NG BoLT Of BV..1\~G CR\t-\SON C~RUNS ~cRass 11\E. Ski .' ITS STVrEHRXI~ 
NAN.'---'~ 
WILBUR AND WENDEL 
... SOl S'TI!RTEt>1ALI<1N67 TO THIS 6.U'( ltAID I FEL.L IN (..Oil€ vJiiH ttiM. SVT, :rv{.i M '( lUCK, HE: TV RN S OVT "TT 1!1~ .. · 
S£CON.OS lATER, mt. '-Mtlllt>IG 
Mt>.R'it.l AUG\-\TS \JI'a~ 1\N ~st.R~f>-TOR'{ lt.LESCOPE 
P.,\ ~1-\T PI\LOI"\"-R! 
BILL WATTERSON 

\'Hn\ S1\J\'E\'ol0005 S\R'alG\\1, 
STri!ENPOfiS JIAN CAREF\Jll1 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON
UNSCREWS 111£. GIA~T LENS ..,--~ 
JAY HOSLER 


It's Alcohol Awareness Week's r?r:rn@l~r~ Pet Sematary 8:00 PM The Omen 10:10 PM The Shining 12:22 AM Hellraiser 2:30 AM ~Friday, Cushing Auditorium  


By DAVID DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 
On a cold and windy October evening, the Notre Dame women's soccer team sped past the Tri-State Women of Troy 17-0, recording their second straight shutout and their sixth win in a row. 
Senior co-captain Joy Sisolak opened the scoring at 5:4 7 of the first half, beating Tri-State goalkeeper Linda llalgash on a cross from right wing Susie Zilvitis. The swarming Notre Dame attack quickly forced another score, as senior co­captain K.T. Sullivan found the net at 6:04 of the first half. with an assist by junior forward Mimi Suba. 
For the next six minutes, Tri­State held the Irish at bay, but Susie Zilvitis, streaking down the sideline, nailed a goal at 
12:04 of the first half, putting 
Sports 
Wednesday, October 11, 1989 
Mihalko's role to increase for Irish 
Mihalko never imagined he'd be 
the characteristic that is now a
By MIKE KAMRADT 

in a Notre Dame uniform. 
Mihalko trademark: hardwork.
Sports Writer 

Mihalko began to realize he " I knew I had a role to play. I 
There's an old saying that had a future in football while looked at it as a ' Welcome to the only two sure things in life he was a junior at Pinkerton College.' I think the key was are that you'll die and that Academy. After a senior season that I had a positive attitude," 
you'll pay taxes. in which he gained 1,087 yards said Mihalko. "I was goingLook at the Notre Dame on 138 carries, it was time to against the first and second Football Guidebook under full­make a decision on a college. team everyday. I was hittingback Ryan Mihalko. "My first concern was guys like Wes Pritchett, Cedric 
" ... [ Mihalko] joins seniors choosing a school with good Figaro, and Ned Bolcar. I was Anthony Johnson and Braxston academics," said Mihalko. "I ma~ing them and mysnlf bnt­Banks along with Hodney visited Duke and Notre Dame, tnr. Culver to provide the Irish with but when I looked at the sched­During his sophomorn year,optimum depth at that spot..." ule Notre Dame plays, the Mihalko took the nnxt step as 
The old saying holds true quality of players, and the tra­he saw action in 10 of Notre once again as the Irish fullback dition, my choice was easy. Dame's 12 games in the situation has changed drasti­Plus, there was the fact that at National Championship season. cally since Notre Dame won the Notre Dame I saw there was a lie scored a touchdown againstNational Championship last chance to win a National Navy and had one rush and one year. Braxston Banks is out Championship." reception in the Fiesta Bowl 
with a knee injury and Rodney Hyan Mihalko wasn't like against West Virginia.
Culver has done most of his some incoming freshman who " Last year was great. I was playing at tailback behind Ricky are put near the top of the working with the second team Watters. That means that Ryan depth chart. In his freshman so I was much more involvnd in Mihalko will continue to play a year he didn't travel and the game plan," said Mihalko. bigger and bigger role for the worked solely with the reserve "Winning the National 1989 Irish in their quest to re­team at fullback. However, he Championship made my deci­peat as National Champs. didn't look at this in a negative sion to come to Notre Dame 
When he was growing up in light. He took the challenge Pelham, New Hampshire, head on and began to establish see MIHALKO/ page 13 
the Irish up 3-0. Even play reigned again, until freshman sensation Margaret Jarc hit the first of her three goals on the night at 13:55 of the first half, thanks to an assist by Mimi Suba. 
Freshman midfielder Marianne Giolitto then got into the act with a goal at 15:30 of the first half, raising the Irish tally to 5-0. Again, the Women of Troy managed to withstand the Irish onslaught, but at 
25:29 of the first half, freshman Jean Keaveney scored the first goal of her Notre Dame, taking an assist from sophomore sweeper Molly Lennon. 
But yet again, the Tri-State Women of Troy, exhausted by frequent substitutions on the part of the Irish, frustrated the Notre Dame assault for what 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team thrashed Tri-State, 17-0 at Moose Krause field. The Irish broke seven see SOCCER! page 13 records in the Irish record book and tied three in their impressive victory. 


Thank God for the Cubs! Baseball is better off with them 
I sat there and watched grown men pour cham­pagne over each other's heads and tried to make some sense of it all, to figure out what it meant in the larger context of life. 
The San Francisco Giants had just eliminated the Chicago Cubs, America's perennial losers, in the Senior Circuit Playoffs. The game or series score wasn't important, just the fact that there would be no more baseball at Wrigley Field for these Boys of Zimmer. 
Why in the name of Job does God force these Cubs and their fans to suffer, living a dream they know will eventually turn to a nightmare? 
Why does He get their hopes up-at least three times since 1945-and then let the Mets put together an incredible comeback? Or let the ball roll between Leon Durham's legs? Or let a kid named "The Thrill" drive in what seemed like a run every time he went to the plate? 
After Boston Red Sox first baseman Bil Buckner (You got it-a former Cub) watched a ball roll be­tween his legs in the 1986 World Series against the New York Mets, legendary writer Stephen King said he just sat in the dark and tried to figure out why the Sox could never win the big one, why they could never be the champions of the world. 
There wasn't necessarily one play in the Cubs­Giants series that sealed the Chicago's fate. But there were many that will be remembered as ac­complices to this death. 
There was Don Zimmer, whose stomach was fi-

Greg Guffey 
Assistant Sports Editor 
nally in sync with his body for the first time in this century, loading the bases in Game 1, only to see Will Clark blast a grand slam into Lake Michigan. 
There was Les Lancaster forgetting the count upon entering the Game 3 and promptly serving a juicy 2-0 pitch that Robby Thompson hit toward Oakland. 
There was Mitch Williams almost breaking his neck as he watched a Clark single shoot past his head in Game 5, the single that closed the lid on the Cubs' coffin. 
There was Ryne Sandberg, who has a hit in every post-season game he has ever played in, grounding meekly to second, his position, to put the nail in that coffin and signal hibernation for the Cubs. 
But the lingering memory may be that of Andre Dawson, the man who will make $2 million next season. Dawson stranded runner after runner after runner throughout this series, striking out with the bases loaded in the ninth inning of Game 4 and then leaving two runners on base twice in Game 5 with a strikeout and a popout. The off-season may be the longest season of Dawson's career. 
The image that sitcks in the mind is that of the Cubs sitting helplessly in the dugout after the loss, the only path to the lockerroom blocked by a Giant celebration. 
The Cubs not only left their hearts in that San Francisco dugout, but also their hope, dreams and, 
possibly, their destiny. They carried the weight of the city with them, and that weight became too heavy. 
So. the Giants and A's, two transplanted teams from the East Coast, two teams just miles apart, will play in the World Series. The remainder of the world can now go on with normal lives. 
Anyway, it just wouldn't be the same if the Cubs had won it all. They are America's losers, seeing the summit but not reaching it, seeing light at the end of the tunnel but going blind before it shines on them. 
Maybe these playoffs taught Chicago and Cub fans a lesson. Next year, go to Wrigley Field, get some sun, drink some beer, keep score if you want, throw back the opposing homers, sing with Harry. 
But never, ever get your hopes up for the impossi­ble. 
If you do, think of the Miracle Mets, Kingman, Durham, Clark and every other person or team that has contributed to the woes of the Cubs through the years. 
I'm convinced the Cubs will never win a pennant or World Series as long as life exists as we know it. 
But if Dawson bounces back. And a dependable fourth starter emerges. And Sandberg has a year like '84. And Walton proves this season was fluke. And... 






