
VOL. XXIII NO. 36 MONDAY , OCTOBER 16, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Wall Street .braces for further los~es after Friday's plunge 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK _ Wall Street braced for more battering Monday as the aftershocks of its Friday the 13th plunge were felt in Tokyo, where prices plummeted in early trading. 
The Nikkei Stock Average was down 442.08 points or 1.2 percent, at 34,6 73.94 'in the first few minutes of trading Monday on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. 
• Tokyo Stock Exchange 
opens lower, but remains firm I page 4 
The dollar opened at 139.95 yen in Tokyo, down sharply from Friday's closes of 144.00 yen in Tokyo and 142.05 yen in New York. 
The activity in Tokyo was the first in a major foreign market following Friday's plunge on Wall Street and was expected to help set the tone for trading m other markets around the world. . . 
In other early Asmn ~radmg Monday, the market m New ~ealand ~ell abou~ 10 percent in Its mornmg sessiOn and Aus­tralia's main st?ck-price index fe!l 8 percent .m the first 20 mmutes of tradmg. 
The New York stock market suffered its worst setback since the Oct. 19, 1987 Black Monday crash when prices plunged in the final hour of trading last Friday and the Dow Jones in­qustrial average lost more than 190 points to finish at 2,569.26. 
Since 1987, takeover rumors and leveraged buyouts had pushed the market higher. But trouble with one of those deals Friday, the employee-manage­ment buyout of United Airlines parent UAL Corp., raised fears of problems in the "junk bond" financing market and sparked Friday's sell-off. 
Market and government offi­cials continued their weekend-

long huddl~ Sunday, mappmg out ~trat~gies to preve~t a fi­nancml disaster parallelmg the events of two years ago, when the Dow plummeted 508 points on Oct. 19, Black Monday, after a ~ 08 -point drop the preceding F~~day. 
After what happened ... the powers that be will do a lot to avoid ~ major s~ll-off,". said John Tierney, a vice president at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. 
The Federal Reserve sent sig­nals over the weekend that it will move quickly to meet any demands for cash on Monday, when a deluge of sell orders is expected to hit the U.S. mar­kets. 
"We will be there with all the liquidity demand that is needed," said a senior Fed offi­cia! who spoke on condition of anonymity. "If there are any doubts about liquidity being available, there is no reason to be concerned." 
The Fed's action could keep 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Assistant News Editor 

William Hickey, director of University Food Services, died Friday of a heart attack. 
Hickey, 54, was in Colorado Springs, Colo., for Saturday's Notre Dame-Air Force game. He died at 9:24 a.m. at St. Francis Hospital, Colorado Springs, Colo. 
Hickey was appointed direc­tor of food services on July 1, 1982, after running the food service operation at the Univer­sity of Illinois-Chicago Circle, according to a press release. 
''I'm in shock, basically," said Dennis Koehler, assistant di­rector of food services. "It's hard to believe that he's not coming back from Colorado." 
During Hickey's years at Notre Dame, his changes in eating ambience, menus, cater­ing and marketing earned three national awards for Notre Dame's $17-milllon-a-year food 
Hurricane Jerry slams into Texas 
Associated Press 
GALVESTON, Texas ­Hurricane Jerry roared into the Texas coast Sunday, downing power lines, rattling flagpoles and trees and combining with the highest tides of the year to flood coastal areas. Thousands of people headed for high ground. 
The center of the hurricane crossed the coast 10 miles southwest of Galveston Island at about 8 p.m., with sustained winds of 75 mph and gusts up to 100 mph, according to the National Hurricane Center in Coral Gables, Fla. 
In Galveston, officials re­ported scattered power fail­ures, street floodiPg and a roof torn off a building, but no im­mediate injuries. The city of 62,000 was the site of one of the worst hurricanes in U.S. history, a storm that killed 6,000 people in 1900. 
As Jerry struck, heavy rains and rising tides moved over the upper Texas coast and were expected to increase over the southwest Louisiana coast, the National Weather Service said. 
Jerry's hurricane-strength winds extended 25 miles east of the eye and 15 miles west. That was about 10 times weaker than Hurricane Hugo, which had hurricane force winds ex­tending 100 miles out from its center when it devastated Charleston and other parts of South Carolina last month. 
"It's a very small hurricane. I would not expect much damage from it," said Bob Sheets, di­rector of the National Hurricane Center. 
Jerry strengthened from a tropical storm to a hurricane 110 miles off Galveston Island at 1 p.m. when its sustained wind hit 75 mph, or 1 mph above the threshold, according to the National Hurricane Center. During the afternoon, the storm reached 85 m.p.h. sustained wind and swung onto a northerly course toward Galveston, the hurricane center said. 
Hurricane warnings were posted from Freeport, Texas, to Intracoastal City, La. Tornado watches were posted over southwestern Louisiana and southeastern Texas. 
At 7:20 p.m., a tornado hit 
see JERRY I page 4 
bankers from cutting off credit to brokerage houses and secu­rities firms suffering heavy losses from a plunge in stock prices. 
The Fed official said the U.S. central bank had been in touch with central banks in Japan and Europe and had received assurances from them that those officials stood ready to supply needed cash in their countries to counteract any possible fallout from Friday's plunge in stock prices. 
Officials at both the Fed and the Treasury were closely moni­toring developments in the overseas markets, primarily Tokyo and Hong Kong. Devel­opments in those markets could set the tone for how u.s. mar­kets perform when they open Monday morning. 
The New York Stock Ex­change planned to open its computers to receive orders at 
7:30 a.m. EDT, an hour earlier than usual. Thousands of wor­
see MARKET I page 4 
Wlllllm tlckey 
services operation, according to a press release. 
In 1984, Notre Dame won the Ivy Award in national competi­tion among hotels, restaurants and institutions. 
In 1986, Hickey won the In­ternational Food Service Manu­facturers Association Silver Plate Award, the most presti­gious given by the food service 
Dow Hour-By-Hour 
2800 
2750 
2700 
2650 
2600 
2550 

25001~:::::=:::::=~~===~ 
0  I  I  I  I  1..  i  I  I  I  
10  11  12  2  3  4  
AP  

William Hickey, director of Food Services, d'ies of heart attack 

industry, according to a press release. 
While at Notre Dame Hickey's staff catered special functions including the 1987 Summer Special Olympics and supplied meals to the Hope Rescue Mis­sion and the Center for the Homeless in South Bend. 
He had also overseen the $6.5 million renovation and expan­sion of Notre Dame's North Dining Hall: according to a press release. 
Hickey, a consultant to nu­merous colleges and universi­ties, held a degree in food ser­vice management from Pratt Institute, Brooklyn. He also served in executive food man­agement positions in Chicago, at Princeton University, the State University of New York at Binghamton and at Yale Uni­versity. 
A Mass will be offered in his memory at 10 a.m. Tuesday at 
see HICKEY I paqe 4 

SaintMary's kicks off Alcohol Awareness Week 
Uy, and alcohol and the im­pact on society. 
There will he guest speak­ers who wULshate>stories of their experience~ With alco• hol and fihns ·that present the alcohol problems that face American society today. Promotions for alcohol awareness include a wrecked car along SaintMll.ry's Road. 
"This will he a re­
Monday, October 16, 1989

page 2 The Observer 
WORLD BRIEFS 

After undergoing a heart transplant operation, a 39-day­old girl in Padova, Italy was in stable condition and resting peace­fully doctors said Sunday. Giorgia Panizzolo, who was born Sept. 5 with a tumor in her heart, became the youngest person to un­dergo the surgery in Italy when doctors at Padova Hospital com­pleted the four-hour operation early Saturday. 
The Soviet Union is on schedule in withdrawing forces from Eastern Europe but has made little progress on military re­ductions within its borders, says a congressional report released Sunday. The House Armed Services Committee study found that since late April the Soviets have been pulling back their forces as part of reductions proposed by President Mikhail Gorbachev on Dec. 7, 1988. 
Relatives of a Swede who saved tens of thousands 
of Hungarian Jews from Nazi extermination plan to meet today with Soviet officials in Moscow in hopes of learning his fate. Raoul Wallenberg vanished after Soviet troops arrested him in 1945. Wallenberg's half-sister Nina Lagergren and half-brother Guy von Dardel arrived in Moscow Sunday. They were accompanied by the chairman and the secretary of the Stockholm-based Raoul Wal­lenberg Association, retired diplomat Per Anger and Sonja Son­nefeld. 
A veteran Solidarity journalist and political activist was named editor in chief of the government daily in Warsaw, the state news agency reported Saturday. The move further consoli­dates Solidarity's growing media presence. Dariusz Fikus, 57, was chosen by Solidarity Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki to re­place Janusz Durmala, a Communist Party member, as head of the Rzeczpospolita daily, the PAP news agency said. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
"Presleynost" reached U.S. shores Sunday when a Soviet Elvis fan stepped ofT an airplane in Boston in blue suede shoes, clutching an exit visa issued solely for a visit to Graceland, the Memphis, Tenn., home of his hero. Kolya Vasin, 44, an artist, sculptor and rock impresario from Leningrad, said he's been an Elvis fan since hearing a bootleg copy of "Jailhouse Rock." Visit­ing Graceland will be the culmination of a 30-year dream, he said. 
An ammonia leak at a pizza plant in Wellston, Ohio prompted the all-night evacuation of the entire town of 6,500 people and left four people hospitalized Sunday, authorities said. An evacuation order was lifted shortly after 5 a.m. Sunday morn­ing, said Wellston Assistant Fire Chief Bob Long. 
Ferdinand Marcos was laid "temporarily to rest" as thousands of people braved wilting heat in Honolulu Sunday in a service that was part religious ceremony and part political rally. Enrique Fernando, the last Philippine Supreme Court Chief Justice during Marcos' rule, collapsed during an emotional speech by the ousted Philippine president's son, Ferdinand Jr. or "Bong Bong." 
INDIANA BRIEFS 
A regional commuter rail board has approved an agreement to buy all the assets and liabilities of the Chicago, South Bend and South Shore Railroad commuter line. The agree­ment between the Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District and the Anacostia and Pacific Co. establishes the relation­ship between the two agencies and how they will operate the line. 
WEATHER 

Cloudy 

A 60 percent chance of showers and not as warm today. High in the middle 60s. Cloudy tonight with a SO percent chance of rain. Low in the middle 40s. Cloudy and colder Tuesday with a 30 percent chance of morning rain. High 
around SO. 

ALMANAC 
On October 16: e In 1793: Queen Marie An­toinette of France was be­headed. e In 1859: Abolitionist John Brown led a group of about 20 men in a raid on Harper's Ferry. e In 1946: Ten Nazi war criminals condemned during the Nuremberg trials were hanged. e In 1962: The Cuban missile crisis began when President Kennedy was informed by his aides that reconnaissance pho­tographs had revealed the presence of missile bases in Cuba. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for October 15, 1989 

Volume in shares 
251.17 Million 
NYSE Index 
185.56 +11.42 
S&P Composite 
333.65 +21.74 
Dow Jones Industrials 
2,569.26 +190.58 
Precious Metals Gold +$.1 0 to $363.30 I oz. 
Silver+ 1.3¢ to $5.14 I oz. 
Source: AP 

Hormnt1on complied lrom Observer wlfeS and Observer stall reports 
' I I 

You can go home again, and you can even enjoy it 
I'm going home soon. This is not a Freudian 
revelation by any means, but for a freshman 
who has just learned to call her 14 by 9 foot cu­
bicle "home," it will definitely be a shock. 
This being the "Year of the Family" at NO, I 
began to think about my own family, and imag­
ine our reunion. Mom will have that look in her 
eye that means, ''I'm never letting my baby go 
again," which will immediately be shot down 'by 
Dad's, "So kid, how's Monk?" 
Mom will be on her best behavior, though. I'm 
sure Dad has told her that any emotional out­
bursts will result in her forfeiting charge cards 
or something of that nature. 
Since she won't be able to show tears of joy, 
she'll make up for it with food. I can see it now, 
an entire week of not having to eat the dishes 
I've detested for the last 18 years. No beef stew, 
no pork chops, no pot roast, no green beans. 
Knowing the fatal consequences of preparing 
the above dishes, Mom will proclaim every night 
"fix something she won't regurgitate and she'll 
come home more often" night. My taste buds 
are already gearing up for olympic-style eating. 
There's more to my Mom than food, though, 
and shopping will definitely play into the pic­
ture. 

It will all start innocently. She and I will tell my father we're going out tn buy some toi­letries_ While loading up on Kleenex, we'll just HAPPEN to mosey over to the mall, which will just HAPPEN to lead to some serious shopping. 
Hours and dollars-we-didn't-have-to-begin­
with later, we'll return, much to the dismay of 
my father who will say, "I thought you were just 
going out for Kleenex. Don't you already have 
shoes that color?" 

Life with mom won't be entirely peaverly, be­
cause I'm sure she'll get down to some first­
rate nagging. 

After all, I've been gone for two months, and my father is not an easy target for her ever-pre­sent maternal concerns. They've been building up, like tartar or whatever that yellowish film on one's teeth is called, and my homecoming will provide a perfect opportunity for a full­scale attack. 
My eating habits, sleeping habits, and nervous disorders will be addressed. She'll want the scoop about relationships with boys, girls, and men in blue jogging suits. And late at night, I'll be heard muttering in my sleep, "Yes mom, I understand that I'll be nosey too when I have kids." 
As if the barrage of motherly love won't con­sume my all-too short visit, I'll have my father to deal with as welL He's a different sort, com­pletely unpredictable. He may greet me wearing that goofball faux-tuxedo t-shirt that he fash­ioned each year at prom time. Or he may pull the old, "Don't I know you from somewhere?" routine. 
Being the laid back member of the family, Dad will treat my homecoming with as little hype as possible, presumably because the spectacle mom will make will be more than enough for the both of them. 
We'll talk politics, and he'll ask me if I've fi­nally convinced my friend Emily that socialism 
OF INTEREST 
Workers for the JPW Brunch Committee are needed. If interested, please submit a brief description of why you would like to become in-

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur­chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

'My eating habits, sleeping habits, and nervous disorders will be addressed.' 
Monica Vant News Copy Editor 
is for the birds. We'll talk academics, and he'll 
tell me not to worry about my poor 
performance in math, because after all, "Jethro 
Bodine couldn't 'cipher too well, and look how 
successful he was." 
Dad will take me to Coney Island for a "gut­bomber," and beg me not to worry mom too :rvuch with my freshmanitis. ("She's going bonkers, you know.") He'll then lapse into enough "stories from the home office" to satisfy my craving for gossip for the next twelve years. 
I've yet to mention my grandmother, aunt, un­cle, and seventh-grade cousin. No reunion would be complete without all of the family, dogs included. We'll do dinner at Grandma's, play some Pictionary, and I'll be coerced into telling them about the wonder and glory of the life of a collegian. (Leaving out, of course, the agony and defeat of it, as I wouldn't want them to think I don't live in Disneyland.) 
The more I think about it, the more excited I get about going home. My room, a palatial spread compared to the bread box I presently share with two others, will be institution-clean and devoid of all traces of my existence. After all, EVERYTHING I own is crammed into the bread box. 
When I think about my house, I think about my neighborhood, and the news I've been miss­ing. Have the Elly's finally finished painting the house, or has the Mister let it slide for yet an­other year? 
Has the newly-divorced bombshell thrown any more celebration bashes? Have any of the nurs­ing home residents escaped? The list of ques­tions in dire need of an answer is endless. 
I never thought I'd be this anxious to go home. I've probably painted a poor picture of my parents, but the truth is, I'm dying to see them. Sure, Mom may carry the "Supermom" theme a bit too far, but she's one in a zillion, and the best in the world. Dad may not be able to show his emotions as well, but I know he'll be just as thrilled to see me as I will to see him. It's funny how just two months can strengthen fam­ily bonds that had always been taken for granted. 
I'm going home soon, and life will be different. I may be able to predict the predictable, but some things will never be the same. Regardless, I'm counting the minutes. 
Monica Yant is a student in the Freshman Year of Studies. The views expressed are those of the author, and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
volved and previous experience that you've had. Turn these into Student Activities by Oct. 30. If you have any questions, please call Wendy at 283-2798. 
Design Elftlrs........ .... .. Karen Newlove Design AssislanL................... Cristina Ortiz Typesetter ..................... ____________ Amalia Meier ...................................;...................... Dan Towers 
Assislant Naws Edllor...._________ Tim O'Keefe Naws Copy Editor............ Sandra Weigand Sports Copy Editor.......... Steve Megargee Viewpoint Edllor ................. Christine Walsh Velwpolnt Copy Edtlor ....... Janice O'Leary Viewpoint Layoui ..............Melissa Gorham Accenl Editor ......................Robyn Simmons Accenl Copy Editor ............ Shonda Wilson Accent Designers................... Allison Cocks ........................................................Joe Zadrozny NO Day Editor ..............................Julie Parker Pl'dlgiapa............................. Kevin Weise Business Eia:lr............................ Liz Panzica Business Copy Edltor........Lauren Deluca Business l...ayoot........ Maureen Gallagher Ad [)as9lers...................... Shannon Roach 
___ ..__________ ................... Kerry Clair,Maria Blohm ........................Ryan Roberts,Jeanne Naylor 
Monday, October 16, 1989 The Observer page 3 
Beijing University reopens with changes 
Associated Press 
BEIJING -China's most prestigious university opened Saturday for the first time since soldiers crushed the mas­sive pro-democracy protests its 
students helped lead.  ·  
Students  gathered  to  buy  
books  at  the  center  of  the  

Beijing University campus near a long red banner that urged them to uphold Marxist princi­ples and take a clear stand against Western capitalist val­ues. 
Few were willing to talk about the protests that ended in gunfire and triggered a hard-line backlash in which Communist Party General Secretary Zhao Ziyang was ousted and thousands were ar­rested. 
"Most students have become more realistic about the situa­tion and now they want to study," said one. But they re­ported that among themselves, and on other Beijing campuses, students have taken to sarcas­tically singing the jingle from a pesticide commercial that goes, "We are the harmful insects." 
Students were noticeably fewer than usual. The ?50­member freshman class ­down from about 2,100 last year -will be absent all year to undergo military and politi­cal training at an army academy outside the capital. Their dormitories were empty. 
Authorities announced after the protests that freshmen for the first time would spend a year at a military academy, but they insisted it was not pun­ishment for the pro-democracy protests. 
The reduction in the fresh­man class was part of a na­tionwide cut in first-year stu­dents from about 640,000 to 610,000. 
Beijing University has been particularly hard-hit, partly be­cause it is mainly a liberal arts school and liberal arts are los­ing the most new students. The university played a leading role in the demonstrations, but au­thorities claim the enrollment reductions had nothing to do with that. 
The school has an enrollment of about 10,000, but students said some upperclassmen failed to show up, fearing investiga­tions of their roles in the protests. 
Other colleges are still con­tinuing such investigations two months after reopening, with special teams pressuring teach­ers and students who were heavily involved to write fuller "self-criticisms," or confes­sions. 
An official notice posted in several places at Beijing University said the government would be lenient toward those who "turn themselves in, con­fess or render meritorious ser­vice" -which it explained meant reporting the crimes of others or providing evidence. 
Other schools reopened early, in August, to complete the spring semester's unfinished work and hold special political ideology classes. But Beijing University's opening was de­layed until after the Oct. 1 an­niversary of 40 years of Communist Party rule, appar­ently for fear its students would disrupt the festivities. The day passed peacefully. 
The party newspaper, the People's Daily, said Friday that Beijing University was a "major disaster zone" during the protests. 
It called for strengthening school management, saying that people with bourgeois lib­eral, or anti-socialist, views took advantage of its past free atmosphere. 

Writing Rome 
The Observer/Sarah Vakker 

Senior archit~cture students Rigel Chiriboga, Brad Edmonds, and Joe Chira say "Ciao thtti" -hello to every_on~ 1n one large letter to be sent to Rome. All architecture students spend their junior year studytng 1n Rome. 
By ROBERT KELLY 
News staff 

Notre Dame graduate Nathaniel Green discussed ways of coping with the problem of racism in corporate America in a lecture delivered to the League of Black Business Students Sunday. 
Green, who is the assistant vice president of commercial loans at a bank said, "In busi­ness, for a black person, you will not find overt racism, but rather cultural racism." 
According to Green, the cul­ture of the business world in America is entirely white. Thus, it is necessary for a black person in the business world to act by the norms of white cul­ture if he or she wishes to sur­vive and advance. 
The problem with this situa­
tion, Green said, is a loss of identity for the black business person. He explained that there are two possible out­comes for the black business person. 
The first 'is that of the black person who "has divorced him­self from the black culture in order to rise in the business world." said Green. 
This result, he said, occurs when a black business person allows his or her whole lifestyle to be altered by the business world's racism. 
A second, healthier way for a black person to deal with the oppressive atmosphere of cor­porate America, said Green, is to "view the changes you have to make as a part of your job, not as a loss of your identity." 
Conformity to the standards seems necessary to rise in the business world but it need not change your whole way of life as a black person, he said. 
According to Green, discrimi­nation against blacks in the business world has its roots in the fact that there are no major businesses controlled by blacks. Because the primary motives of a business are self-interest and profit, whites are often hired over blacks with equal qualifi­cations because of the business connections they might provide. 
"Until blacks control some­
thing in the business world, 
there will be discrimination 
against them. If there is no 
major black customer to bring 
in, there is no incentive for a 
company to hire a black per­
son." said Green. 
Until the business world as a whole achieves a balance be­tween blacks and whites, the black person will find it neces­sary to work harder and be better qualified than his white competitor, he said. 

Doiit SquanderTime. Buy It. And plan it. And make the most is looking for entry-level recruits to graduate and undergraduate of it for some of this country's for their Media Department. students of every major. largest advertisers. You'lllearn about planning So come find out more about Leo Burnett U.S.~··. the world's and buyt~g advertising time and Media, a career that puts plenty tenth largest adverllStnR aRency, space. Thts presentation is open of time in your hands. ACareer in Media ·Tuesday, October 17, 8:00pm Center for Continuing Education (2nd floor) IILeo Burnett Company, Inc.  


~~~~~ l83~rti~)(~~~5; ~[}(~ 
Hugs and kisses, MB, Christina, & Wu 
The Cusha Center for the Study of American Catholicism presents 
PATRICK DUFFY, M.P. 
in a lecture: 
IS PEACE POSSIBLE IN NORTHERN IRELAND? 
Tuesday, October 17 at 4:15p.m. Hesburgh Library Lounge 
Mr. Duffy, Labour M.P. for Sheffield and President of the North Atlantic Assembly ( a parliamentary link between NATO and its national parliaments), has been close to the situation in Northern Ireland for many years. He is a graduate of both the London School of Economics and Columbia University. 

~------~ --~-~---------­
page 4 

Tokyo Stock Exchange opens lower, but is firm 
Associated Press 

TOKYO -The rich Tokyo Stock Exchange and the dollar opened lower Monday but firmed amid reports that world monetary authorities were ready to intervene to prevent Friday's Wall Street· plunge from snowballing. 
The dollar opened at 139.95 yen, a heavy drop from Friday's close of 144.00 yen in Tokyo. At midmorning the dollar was higher at 141.00 yen, but still below its New York close Fri­day of 142.05 yen after the Wall Street plunge of more than 190 points in the Dow Jones index. 
The Nikkei Stock Average of 225 issues stood at 34,774.70 points, down 321.32 points, or 
0.9 percent, after the first hour of trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. It had opened down about 600 points but then climbed on what dealers said was low-volume trading. 
The performance of Tokyo markets was closely watched around the world for indica-
Hickey 

continued from page 1 
Stepan Center, said Father William Beauchamp, executive viee president of the University. lie said University President Father Edward Malloy will be the celebrant. 
Friends may call from 3 to 5 and 7 to 9 p.m. today in Hickey Funeral !lome Cleveland Road Chapel, 17131 Cleveland Hoad, according to Dave Nietch of the Hickey Funeral llome. lie said llickey will be buried in The Gate of Heaven Cemetery in Hawthorn, N.Y. 
llickey was born June 15, 1935, in Yonkers, N.Y. He had lived in South Bend since 1982, coming from Chicago. 
Surviving family members in­clude Ann DeVito, his wife, who serves as an employee of St. Michael's Laundry; a daughter, Karen Krawczun; three sons, William J. Ill, Barry and Michael; live grandchildren; a sister, Gloria Williams; and a brother George llickey. 
Memorial contributions may be made to the University of Notrn Dame, American Heart Association, or to the Lupus Foundation. 
Alcohol 

continued from page 1 
alcohol abuse. The table will also have designated driver bracelets. If worn by a des­ignated driver, she will be served free sodas at partici­pating bars. 
Additional information and activities will be posted around campus. 
tions of whether markets would 
avoid a repeat of the crash of 
1987. Then, a sizable drop on a 
Friday multiplied on the follow­
ing Monday -the Black Mon­
day in New York that was fol­
lowed by Black Tuesdays in 
Tokyo and London. 
Share prices in Australia and 
New Zealand tumbled in open­
ing trading Monday. 
On the New Zealand ex­change, blue-chip stocks plum­meted in volatile but low-vol­ume trading with the Barclays Index ending the morning off 265 points -or 11.79 percent -at 1984.85, the biggest fall since the 505 points of the 1987 crash. Australia's main stock price index fell 8 percent in the first 20 minutes of trading and was headed lower. 
Yozo Asai, an analyst with Yamaichi Securities, a major brokerage, said there had been some panic selling at the start of trading in Tokyo but that the stock market was returning to stability. 
Jerry 
continued from page 1 
downtown Orange, Texas, causing damage to several buildings, the hurricane center reported. Earlier, a funnel cloud was reported ncar New Orleans. 
Galveston City Manager Doug Matthews said he believed many of the island city's residents de­cided to stay in their hpmes be­hind the seawall. 
lie also said about 500 resi­dents had left their low-lying homes on the island's west end, which is not protected by the seawall. 
While workers distributed sandbags and barricades to low-lying areas, Galveston resi­dents stocked up on supplies and secured homes and boats. 
"We're jam-packed," said Joey DeRanier, service manager 
UiJ~[plJJ)J ~~~llK~.IIil)J 11® u'ilru\Juo 
Monday, October 16, 1989

The Observer 

~-­' . ' ' 
... 
y~ ' ·.:-~ 

' ITrendsetting surgery 
AP Photo 

Former President Ronald Reagan sports a new, shorter hairstyle as he meets with Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney at his office in the Century City section of Los Angeles Thursday. Reagan's hair is growing back following recent brain surgery. 
at a grocery store where 12 checkers were kept busy. "They're picking up water, bat­teries, everything." 
At hardware stores, cus­tomers bought nails, masking tape and other supplies to se­cure homes and windows, but one clerk said it was too late for many to cover windows. 
"With this late a warning, there's not a lot you can do," said Hoy Straw at a store on Jamaica Beach. "People can't handle plywood in the wind and rain." 
Jerry was considered a cate­gory 1 hurricane, the least se­vere possible. The storm did not compare in fury to Hurricane Hugo, which became a category 4. 
"Category 4 is a major disas­ter and Jerry is a bad day," said Jerry Jarrell, deputy direc­tor of the National Hurricane Center. 
Market 
continued from page 1 
ried investors called sell orders into their brokers over the weekend, setting the stage for a nood of activity when Wall Street opens for business. 
The exchange plans to insti­tute a service at the opening, which puts individual orders of up to 2,099 shares in front of big, institutional orders, said the NYSE's chief spokesman Hiehard Torrnnzano. Normally, the service is offered only after the Dow moves up or down 25 points. 
"You go on a red alert when there's a situation like Friday," said NYSE spokeswoman Sharon Gamsin. "We want to pave the way for the system to operate as smooth as possible. We're not anticipating any problem." 
Once the market opens, a sys­tem of "circuit breakers" in­stalled following the 1987 crash will automatically halt trading if the Dow rises or falls 250 points. 
Gamsin said the exchange in­tends to let the market "go," rather than step in before the eireuit breakers have a chance to work. 
Insiders say a drop on Wall Street might be cushioned if corporations and brokerages step in to buy stocks. After the crash two years ago, compa­nies stepped in to purchase their own shares to bolster prices. 
Observers said the same thing could happen this time, with brokerages joining in to sup­port the stocks they have been touting through the market's recent record-setting runup. 
Experts are quick to note that the economic landscape two years ago was markedly different. 
L__:__:___:____:.__::____:____:._.:____:~~-~~~._._:~--------------~---~--~--------" 
You're the best 
Maria 
Happy Birthday! 
Mom, Marc, Dan, & Sarah 

Business
Monday, October 16, 1989 
pa e 5 

Fed ready to inject cash to stop market plunge 
Associated Press  rkn, the nPw chairman of the  sion.  
WASIIINGTON-The Federal Heserve put out the word Sun­day that it stands ready to flood the banking system with money to prevent the second­biggest point drop in the his­tory of the stock market from developing into something  S•~rurities and Exchange Com­mission. were keeping in close contact monitoring develop­ments. "I am sure they will do what is right, what is prudent, what is sensible," Darman said in an interview on ABC's "This Week with David Brinkley." Meanwhile, a senior Fed offi­ While a Fed move to inject massive amounts of cash into the banking system cannot by itself push stock prices higher, it does provide a measure of confidence that the government is prepared to counteract the damaging effects to the econ­omy from a sudden loss of bil­lions of dollars of wealth in  
worse. The Fed commitment came as the Bush administration con­tinued its own efforts to reas­sure investors reeling from Friday's 190-point plunge in the Dow Jones industrial aver­age.  cial said Sunday that the cen­tral bank intended to follow the example that Greenspan set following the October 1987 market crash. "We will be there with all the liquidity demand that is needed," said the official, who  stock prices. The Fed's action to supply cash on a liberal basis to the banking system serves to reas­sure nervous bankers that they do not need to be panicked into cutting off credit to brokerage houses and securities firms suf­ 
White House Budget Director Hichard Darman, who in recent weeks has been critical of the Fed's handling of monetary  spoke on condition that his name not be used. "If there are any doubts about liquidity being available, there is no reason to  fering heavy losses from a plunge in stock prices. Brokerage firms, assured of a line of credit from their  
policy, expressed total confi­dence Sunday that the central bank and other government of­ficials will do all that is neces­sary to contain the market turmoil. Darman said that Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady, Fed­eral Heserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and Hichard Bree- be concerned." The term "liquidity" refers to the ready availability of cash. The Greenspan-led effort two years ago was widely credited with keeping the 508-point plunge of October 1987 from wrecking havoc on the banking system and perhaps toppling the entire country into a reces­ bankers, are not forced to sell off stocks as the price plunges simply to replenish their own dwindling supplies of cash. Such waves of forced stock sales can have the unintended effect of driving stock prices down even further. The Fed official said in a telephone interview that the  

Investors might continue buying; market not as frightened this time 
Associated P;ess 
if the market had hit bottom. could not get bank financing 
"I think that's a good sign. for the $6.75 billion deal. INDIANA-Some stockbro­They didn't seem as frightened That caught the attention of kers believe many investors this time around. We're so cal­arbitrators and spilled over to may be buying, not selling lous to this stuff anymore. It's stocks of other companies that stocks on Monday, following just like another day," he said. also were the subject of the Dow Jones average of 30 Eli Lilly & Co. was down 5 takeover talk, said Mike industrials dive of 190.58 1/2, but most Indiana stocks Haskell, a trader at Raf­points Friday. were not affected, brokers said. fensperger Hughes & Co. in In­
Many individual investors Cummins was down 1/4, Arvin dianapolis. were unnerved by a 508-point Industries was down 3/4, NIP­In Evansville, some brokers loss in October 1987 and have SCO Holdings was down 3/8, said they were telling customers shied away from the market PSI Holdings was down 5/8, the market likely will continue since then. But some investors Merchants National Corp. was to drop somewhat. wished they had jumped back in up 1/4, and INB was un­· "As much as I hate to see the two years ago. changed. market get hit the way it did 
"I really think people are go­David W. Knall, of McDonald today, this is not the end of the ing to realize they lost an op­& Co. Securities Inc. of Indi­world," Alan Newman, vice portunity last time," said W. anapolis, said Friday's market president and manager of the Dennis Howell of Traub & Co. fall was triggered primarily by Evansville office of Hilliard in Indianapolis. Howell lielded news that the pilot-manage­Lyons Inc., said Friday. a number of calls Friday after­ment group trying to buy UAL "I think the market will lan­noon from customers inquiring Corp., parent of United Airlines, guish for a couple of weeks." 
U.S. central bank had been in touch with central banks in Japan and Europe and had re­ceived assurances from them that those officials stood ready to supply needed cash in their countries to counteract any possible fallout from Friday's plunge in stock prices. 
Officials at both the Fed and the Treasury were closely moni­toring developments in the overseas markets, primarily Tokyo and Hong Kong. Devel­opments in those markets could set the tone for how U.S. mar­kets perform when they open Monday morning. 
Aides to Brady said the Trea­sury secretary had spent the weekend on the telephone coor­dinating the administration's efforts to contain the damage from Friday's market drop. 
Officials said they were mind­ful that the record 508-plunge of the stock market on Black Monday in 1987 had been pre­ceded by a 109-point fall the previous Friday. 
"Things are quite different now than they were in 1987, but no one knows what is going to happen Monday," a Treasury official, who spoke on condition his name not be used, said Sun­day. 
Brady is insisting that re­gardless of what happens in the markets, there should be little impact on the total U.S. econ­omy, which is about to enter a record eighth year of expan­sion. 
Many private economists said they supported that view. 
Michael Evans, head of a Washington forecasting firm, said that even though he was looking for another big selling day Monday, he was not chang­ing his overall economic fore­cast for moderate growth next year. He said the economy would be bolstered by growth in U.S. export sales and contin­ued consumer spending. 
"The average consumer west of the Hudson River is going to say this market plunge is just a bad rerun. They saw this movie two years ago and didn't get hurt so why should they worry now," Evans said. 
Dow's Worst Drops 
6.9% 
8.4% 
The Dow Jones Industrial A"','"''e,,._.-..._. had its second worst point drop Friday, Oct.13, 1989. Here are the 1 0 worst days for the average, and percentage change in value from the previous day's close. 
·508 
22.6% 
APfTate 

Federal spending makes taxpayers' money worth less 
It's not easy to spend as murh money as the federal government does each year. Sometimes you really have to work at being a wastrel.  more pounds, francs, marks or yen, but because it is try­ing with all its might to erode the value of its own currency.  Louis Rukeyser Tribune Media Services  currency values-and, for that matter, trade restric­tions-had very little to do with Japan's incredible suc­cess on the international  key to driving up your economy, we would all now be marvelling at the prosperity of Italy or India.  
Take right  now,  when  the  No,  to  the  mere  civilian,  thereby help us avoid reces­ trade scene.  "They've been  The dollar remains healthy  
alleged  guardians  of  the  living in the real world that  sion.  It sounds  real  good  beating us by making better  because  America  remains  
public  purse  are  merrily  lies beyond the frontiers of  when you say it fast. But if  products," he acknowledged.  healthy-and  a  haven  of  
spending vast  sums  of the  the  District  of  Columbia,  you  slow down and think,  Yet  in  Washington,  stability  in  a  turbulent  
taxpayers' money ... in order  eroding the value of the dol­ you're in trouble.  spendthrifts still insist we'd  world. That is by no means  
to  make  the  taxpayers'  lar might seem like an unde­ Fact is, U.S. exports have  be much better off if only the  all bad. If the government  
money worth less.  sirable thing. It is , after all,  been  booming  of late,  as  dollar were cheaper. Ameri­ insists on engaging in an in­ 
Yes, you read that right.  a  good handy definition of  more  and  more  companies  can  products  would  look  ternational conspiracy to de­ 
First they take the money  inflation-which  laid  this  have  finally got their  acts  more  attractive  to  those  value the greenback, a more  
from you in taxes. Then they  economy low in the 1970s  together. Fact is, Japanese  with foreign currencies-and  effective way,  even  short­ 
spend  it  in  a  deliberate  and  could,  if  we're  not  exports-which theoretically  American consumers would  term, would be to combine  
effort  to  lower the  buying  careful, do exactly the same  should have been decimated  find it more difficult to af­ interest  rate  increases  
power of what you have left.  thing in the 1990s.  by the tremendous rise in  ford foreign goods.  abroad  with  interest  rate  
Can't be so, even in Wash­ Why, then, would our gov­ the value of the yen-have  It's a great theory, as long  cuts  at home.  In the long  
ington, you say? Alas, it is.  ernment  want  to  commit  held  up  remarkably  well.  as your memory span is as  run, however, those lower  
For that is precisely the ef­ what looks very much like fi­ Fact  is,  maybe  there's  lightning-short as the aver­ American  interest  rates  
fect  of  the  Treasury  De­ nancial hara-kiri? The  an­ something  a  heck of a  lot  age politician's. If it's any  would again help strengthen  
partment's  current  loony  swer, of course, is that pub­ more  important  than  the  longer, however, you might  the U.S. economy, and the  
effort to reduce the interna­ lic officials who habitually  passing  value  of  the  recall that the strength of a  hurt-the-dollar crowd would  
tional worth of the American  do very dumb things  never  currencies that's in opera­ nation's  currency is  more  have a brand-new problem  
dollar.  think that they  are  acting  tion here.  likely to be related directly  on its hands. Poor fellows;  
Here's how it works: The  stupidly. Instead, they start  Government  leaders  can  to  the  strength  of  its  they don't know when to sit  
government  takes  huge  to believe their own press re­ sometimes be made to talk  economy.  Countries  like  still and do nothing. Mean­ 
quantities of your presum­ leases.  sense when you turn off the  Japan (and, historically, the  while,  though,  somebody  
ably  hard-earned  dollars  And what the press  re­ microphones. And one of the  U.S.)  have  vividly  ought  to  get them  to  stop  
and uses them to buy foreign  leases are telling us is that a  highest economic officials in  demonstrated this.  On the  passing our bucks.  
currencies-not because it  cheaper dollar is needed to  Washington confessed to me  other hand, if driving down  ©1989 Tribune Media Ser­ 
has a sudden craving to own  increase  U.S.  exports  and  privately the other day that  your currency were truly the  vices  


~------~~-~--~--­
-~-------....-~---~-----~ -~­

Viewpoint 

Monday, October 16, 1989 
~~Ihe~~--ObserYer~= 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg1s Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager. .... Molly Killen VIewpoint Editor .Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager. ..Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theresa Kelly Production Manager Alison Cocks Accent Editor John Blas1 Systems Mgr Bernard Brenn1nkmeyer Photo Editor Enc Bailey OTS Director .Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chnst1ne Gill Controller Anne L1ndner 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper publ1shed by the students ol the Un1vers1­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College It does not necessanly reflect the pol­ICies ol the adm1n1strat1on ol e1ther 1nSt1tu110n The news IS reported as accurately and ob­Jectively as poSSible Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opm1on of the maJOrity of the lollow1ng: Ed1tor-1n-Ch1ef. Manag1ng Ed1tor. Executive News Ed1tor. Viewpo1nt Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Ed1tor. Photo Ed1tor. Sa1nt Mary's Ed1tor. Commentaries. letters, and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space IS available to all members of the community and the lree express1on of vary1ng op1mons on campus. through letters. 1s encouraged 
EDITORIAL 
Maternity plans not sufficient for families 
In celebrating the Year of the Family at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, it is surprising that adequate allowances are not made for members of the community starting, or adding to, the family that is so revered by the institutions. 
Notre Dame has a maternity plan for female faculty that al­lows four weeks compensated leave, with a provision for medical leave, if necessary. The plan for staff and administration is the same as the medical leave plan. 
Saint Mary's programs are more extensive. The staff plan allows a leave of absence decided on a case-by-case basis, generally for six weeks prior to childbirth, with the possibility of extension if medically necessary. 
The Saint Mary's faculty plan, consisting of three alternative plans, is the most comprehensive, and the most beneficial for the mother. Saint Mary's, like Notre Dame, does not penalize in terms of benefits or promotion, but Saint Mary's alone makes allowances for the health of the mother and the growth of the family, as well as the education of the students. 
Plan A is a six-week medical leave, continuing full-time teaching and full salary. Plan B is a one-semester maternity leave with half-pay and full benefits. Plan C is a one-semester half-time teaching load with full pay and full benefits. 
We applaud Saint Mary's for it's faculty plan and the op­tions it allows the growing family. We suggest the plan be im­plemented at Notre Dame, for staff and administration as well as faculty at both institutions. We also propose the idea of parenting leave, allowing the father the same benefits as the mother. 
Awarding both parents the options afforded by the Saint Mary's faculty plan allows the time necessary to prepare for and experience the joys of parenthood, while providing the parents with the necessary income to sustain the family in the time of growth. 
Granted, there is a cost to the schools. but emphasis on family and a concern for providing desired benefits are incen­tive enough to provide a comprehensive plan. 
Staff and administrative employees are no less members of the community than faculty, and they decidedly deserve the same allowances as faculty, for both parents. 
No longer is the mother the sole nurturer of the family, but she is likely as important to the family's financial security as the father. There can be no better time for family bonding and growing closer together than childbirth, and a community which places such admirable emphasis on family cannot have a policy that disallows a family the time to grow. 
The Year of the Family is a time for a change that will en­courage and benefit the growth of the family itself. 
DOONESBURY 


By Joseph F. Novack 
Tenzin Gyatso, the Dalai Lama of Tibet, is this year's winner of the Nobel Peace Prize. Few men or women are as deserving of this award. 
Of course, no award or honor can make up for the fact that the Dalai Lama cannot return to Tibet. The Nobel Peace Prize has cachet and it lends the cause of Tibetan independence a modicum of international support. However, it does not represent self-rule. 
Tibetans have not experienced self-rule in almost four decades. Fresh on the heels of their triumph in China, Mao's forces ended Tibet's millennium of "splendid isolation" in 1950. The Chinese claimed they were rescuing Tibet from feudal rule. The Tibetan people did not see things that way then and don't now. 
The Dalai Lama himself had to flee Chinese control in 1959. He did so reluctantly. His was a choice of abject subservience to Chinese demands or a life in exile. Like many persecuted people, he honorably chose the latter. 
He has not forgotten his peo­ple. From Dharmsala, India he strenuously promotes their cause. As a Buddhist, an advo­cate of the "middle way," he urges tolerance, patience and non-violence. By and large, his words have held sway, though lately there have been eruptions of discontent by his country­men. The forerunner of Tiananmen Square 1989 was Lhasa 1988. 
As he has been forced to live away from his homeland and witness the destruction of his beloved culture, one would think the Dalai Lama would be bitter. He is not. He is a witty and optimistic man. At a speech at Columbia University in 1984 this writer watched this slight, saffron-robed monk enchant a large audience with tales of his boyhood. Inevitably, his words were tinged with melancholy but there was hope too. 
Hope. might not be an easy emotion to conjure up when one has the horizon-blocking wall of the Himalayas between you and your home. From the foothills of Dharmsala it must seem a long way to the moun­tains that ring Lhasa. Sadly, the Dalai Lama might never sec his homeland and its terrible beauty again. 
Remarkably, though hemmed in by a political situation he cannot change, the Dalai Lama perseveres. For his faith alone he deserves the Nobel Prize. 
Joseph F. Novak is a third year law student. 
LETTERS 

'Pro-choice' stands for 'life or death' for the innocent 
Dear Editor: 

Twenty million children have been killed and those favoring pro-choice are still promulgat­ing the same inconsistent, illog­ical arguments for even more deaths. 
'Quality of Life' they shout. Abortion is doing the unborn a service by sparing them from a life of suffering and misery. But what about those already suf­fering? Shouldn't they be killed as well? Why not round up all the children of famine-stricken Mrica and poverty-ridden inner cities in New York and kill them all. Just think of all the suffer­ing that would be alleviated. 
'Freedom of Choice' they shout. 'A woman must have the right to her own body.' Well, of course she does. But a line must be drawn at where that choice interferes with the well­being of another human life. 
Pro-choicers seem to be rather inconsistent in this area, also. Why doesn't the National Or­ganization for Women scream and shout about the new anti­smoking laws? If a women can kill her child, certainly she should be able to light up in public. They are her lungs. 
'Pro-lifers take care of the baby up until it's been born' they shout. This is simply un­true. While there arc many who hold an ultra-conservative view of social issues, the majority fall somewhere in the middle. A perfect example of a pro-life organization dedicated to the quality of life is Birthright. They are a means whereby a mother can choose to have her child and be supported not only physically and materially, but emotionally as well. Birthright provides clothing, food and medical exams as well as set­ting up support groups to he;p the mother in any way possible. To say that pro-lifers are in­sensitive to these needs is mere ignorance of the facts. 
In the overall picture, how­ever, these points are rather peripheral. The media perhaps unwittingly has complicated the issue to an almost unwieldy ex­tent. There arc so many sepa­rate and distinct issues all sup­posedly falling under the um­brella of ·abortion' that the one big issue is overlooked. If one looks at the simple ideologies behind each of the separate factions, however, only one idea can separate them-that of life or death for the most innocent of our brothers and sisters. 
William Jlungeling Grace /Iall Oct. 10, 1989 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

------~-----------~----------~---­
Viewpoint
Monday, October 16, 1989 
page 7 

'Specter of sexism' plagues ordination issue 
Recent letters to The Ob­server raise profound questions about how the issue of the or­dination of women should be addressed. For reasons that need to be articulated, few is­sues facing Catholicism are more important or more diffi­cult to resolve than this one. 
First of all, the importance of the question. We distort history badly if we take the Protestant Reformation as the watershed event in the religious history of the West. Important as that series of events was, it pales by comparison with the alterna­tion in religious consciousness effected by the Enlightenment. What the Enlightenment did was to demystify religion as part of its general effort to render religiously motivated political feuds obsolete. The Enlightenment demystified reli­gion by moralizing it; that is, by removing from it everything but the moral teachings that were thought to be its rational core. 
The Enlightenment demysti­fied religion in part by calling into question the need for the Incarnation, that is, by ques­tioning the doctrine of original sin in its traditional form and in part by dismissing religious ritual as devoid of any real effi­cacy. This latter move is an at­tack upon the very idea of priesthood as Catholics have ordinarily understood it. What makes priests special for Catholics, is just that they arc able to make ritual efficacious in ways that non-priests can­not. When priests celebrate the Mass. they do something­change bread and wine into the body and blood of Christ-that the rest of us cannot do. It is precisely the credibility of this belief that the Enlightenment attacked. and it is our ability to maintain this belief that is challenged by the Enlighten­ment mindset to which all of us 
LETTERS 
By John Robinson 
are heirs. One stands on one side or the other of the Enlight­enment challenge based on one's beliefs in the ability of those who are ordained to make ritual efficacious. 
From this point of view the important question is not whether women should be or­dained, but whether anyone should be ordained. A discus­sion of ordination that does not take into account the undeni­able fact that most of our con­temporaries who share our level and kind of education find the whole idea of "efficacious ritual" to be unacceptable is an exercise in futility. 
If we succeed in making sense of efficacious ritual to a mod­ern mind, how we have gone about doing what will be rele­vant to our answers to ques­tions about the ordination of women. But perhaps it will not be determinative of those an­swers. Here's why: as a matter of demonstrable social fact, priests in the Catholic commu­nity are not solely the agents of efficacious rituals. They are also the holders of power in that community. This may be a lamentable fact; it may also be a mutable one. The declerical­ization of the Church may have in large part already been ef­fected. It remains the case, however, that from within and without, it is to priests and bishops that one turns for the last word on where the Church stands on important questions. 
When, furthermore, the hier­archy acts or fails to act in a moment of crisis-as during the Holocaust, for example­that conduct is naturally at­tributed to the entire Church. In fact any effort to make Qriests merely effectors of sacramental realities, independently of their roles as teachers and as prophetic leaders, would dis­tort both history and theology beyond recognition. 
Unlike our medieval forbears, we have very good reasons to believe that we should not deny access to power to women just because they are women. To think that all women just in virtue of being women are in­capable of its judicious use is the rankest sexism; it is as morally objectionable as it is logically flawed. The Catholic Church ought to rid itself of ev­ery vestige of sexism both for its own sake and in order more effectively to reveal the truth of the Gospels to the world. If it is possible, therefore, to reconcile the vindication of the ordina­tion of anyone with the inclu­sion of women in the class of the ordained, women ought to be ordained. Given the specter of sexism that appears to hand over the practice of male-only ordination, the burden of proof 
would seem to rest on those who are opposed to the ordina­tion of women. 
What kind of objections are standardly made to ordaining women? The first is that Jesus was a male and that the priest as effector of sacramental real­ities is another Christ. There­fore, it is argued, the priest must also be male. It is the "therefore" in that argument that is so questionable. Why is it that Jesus' maleness is seen as crucial? Why not his Jewish­ness? Why not his humanity? This question may be answer­able, but to act as if it needn't be answered is to beg the ques­tion rather than to address it. 
The second kind of objection to the ordination of women in­volves the invocation of scrip­tural texts that are thought to answer the questions defini­tively. Thus, a recent letter to the editor inferred the ludi­crousness of ordaining women from Paul's patriarchalism ("I do not allow women to teach or to have authority over men; they must keep quiet" 1 Tim. 2:12). Some Christian confes­sions try to resolve hard ques­tions by this "proof-text" ap­proach, but this is not the way the Catholic confession does things. Catholics acknowledge that even Paul was tainted by prejudices of his own era. 
For Catholics, it is possible to ask about the extent to which first century sexism is essential to the Gospel message or inci­dental, even contrary. to it. For Catholics, it is necessary to ask this question if we are even to make the Gospel our own. It would be easier to retreat to scriptural texts every time we faced a new question, but it is infinitely better to face these questions directly and to use the question as an occasion for clarifying our own grasp of the Gospel message. We do this best when scripture ceases to be an intellectual narcotic, fa­cilitating an escape from chal­lenging questions, and becomes a goad, stimulating us to think those questions through to 

Scripture can lend support to 'any opinion imaginable' 
Dear Editor: progressive view of women in tions." This sounds very similar that only men should be priests, for our Church? The obvious I would like to respond to the society. Just because society to the racial segregation sup­and the Church is only following answer is that God would two recent letters defending the discriminated against women ported by "separate but equal" this commandment. My ques­never shortchange us, while the Catholic Church's stand on the during Christ's time doesn't facilities in the United States tion is: if only men can repre­number of qualified young men ordination of women. The first. mean we have an excuse to con­before the 1950's. Yet the sent Christ, why did God give falls, we must see the obvious from Kevin McCormick (The tinue this discrimination. Church must accept the same women saints such as Theresa solution in the giving and eager Observer, Oct. 4}, maintained The second letter comes from wisdom the United States found of Avila the stigmata? Surely young women who would love that priests must be male to Julie Parsons (The Observer, in the famous Supreme Court they represented Jesus to God, to serve their Church in the symbolize Christ leading the Oct. 5}, who quotes Paul's letter decision of Brown V. Board of or they would not have had the priesthood.Last Supper during the Mass. If to Timothy telling us women Education, that "separate is in­most powerful signs of Christ's we agree that we must symbol­are not allowed to, "Teach or herently unequal." suffering. 
ize the Last Supper as accu­preach" (2:12-13}. It is not Finally, both Mr. McCormick What we must ask the Church Michael Carrigan rately as possible during the surprising that Ms. Parsons and Ms. Parsons implied or is: Why would God not give us Dillon Hall Mass, then perhaps we should does not tell us the rest of this stated that God has decided the number of clergy we need Oct. 5, 1989 
only allow 13 people to attend, extremely sexist passage, which require everyone to recline on goes on, " ... and it was not 
Paul's language does not reflect meaning
cushions and no music shall be Adam who was led astray but allowed. Not only should the the woman who was led astray Dear Editor: authority over men; she is to missive and respectful in every priest be male, but he may not and fell in to sin. Nevertheless, I am writing in response to keep silent" (1 Timothy 2:12). way ... " (1 Timothy 3:2-5). Is be handicapped, or over the age she will be saved by child-bear­Julie Parson's recent letter on Most importantly, this remark Paul, in his gender-exclusive of 35; he must also wear a ing ... " (2: 13-15}. It is also not the subject of the ordination of is made within the First Letter language, suggesting that bish­beard and speak Aramaic. surprising the letters to Ti­women in the Catholic Church of Paul to Timothy. Then, it's ops (and other ordained minis­
Sound ridiculous? Of course, mothy are one of the works (The Observer, Oct. 5) Ms. Par­logical to assume that each ters) should be married and so why attach the same strict that most biblical scholars be­sons claims that: "The 'Church' time the author of the letter have children? realism to the gender of the lieve Paul did not write. did not decree on its own that (Paul) were to refer to himself I would suggest that Ms. Par-leader of the ceremony? One of the letters Paul is be­women cannot be ordained; he would employ the first sons and those like her who 
No where in the Gospels does lieved to have authored is God made the decree. The singular personal pronoun "I." would malign our just God by Christ design the institute of Galatians, in which he writes, Church is only being obedient And as I understand Church putting unjust words in His priesthood, nor do any of the "There can be neither Jew nor to Scripture, the Holy Word of history, Paul is not God. mouth and unjust decrees in Apostles. In fact, the priest­Greek, there can be neither God, which declares in 1 Ti­Thus, it is Paul who "permits" His hand are careful in the fu­hood, and the sacrament of the slave nor freeman, there can be mothy 2:12-13 that a woman is no woman to be ordained, and ture to be accurate with their Eucharist, for that matter, neither male nor female-for not allowed to 'teach or Paul's qualifications to permit facts and to not be so quick to were creations of the early you are all one in Christ Jesus" preach,' i.e. serve as a priest." or prevent anyone from doing reinforce the obvious flaws in Church. Thus, it was the deci­(3:28}. As this example and the The obvious implication is anything are certainly not com­our human Church. As Paul sion of the leaders of the early recent debates about the that, were the Church the sole parable to God's. Moreover, if warns Timothy at the conclu­Church, surrounded by the male morality of homosexuality and source of this sexist practice, it we are to base our understand­sion of his first letter: "Avoid world of the time, that only the ordination of women have would be right to fight against ing of the ministry of the the godless chatter and contra­men should lead worship. Of shown us, there is a part of it and to establish the ordina­Catholic Church on this epistle, dictions of what is falsely called course, the world 2,000 years Scripture that can support any tion of women. how can we ignore Paul's later knowledge, for by professing it ago repressed women, which is opinion imaginable, even deny­According to The New Oxford statement that: " ... a bishop some have missed the mark as why Jesus and the early leaders ing women ordination. Annotated Bible (RSV), the must be above reproach, the regards the faith" (1 Timothy of the Church were men. In Ms. Parsons also maintains quote to which Ms. Parsons husband of one wife ... He must 6:20-21}. Colleen Hennessey fact, as is clear in the Gospels, that God created women, refers actually states: "I permit manage his own household Lewis Hall Jesus himself clearly had a very "equal but with different func-no women to teach or to have well, keeping his children sub-Oct. 8, 1989 
Accent 
pages Monday, October 16, 1989 

Boy genius 'Doogie Howser, M.D.' faces internship and puberty 
Doogie Howser (Neil Patrick Harris), a 16-year-old medical doctor talks wit his colleagues (Alan Fudge and Lawrence Pressman) on 
ABC's 'Ooogie Howser, M.D.' 
T
he news always presents stories about children with amazing abilities. Some can spell words that contain enough letters to choke a horse while others can play the violin with their tongues. As incredible as these kids may be, none quite compare to Doogie Howser, M.D. 
"Doogie Howser, M.D." makes its diagnosis on ABC Wednesdays at 9 p.m. Doo­gie's life is no easy one; he must cope with heart dis­ease, brain tumors, and, worst of all, pimples. Only the last of these is a problem that plagues the good doctor personally. Perhaps an ex­planation is necessary. Doo­gie Howser (Neil Patrick Har­ris) aced high school in nine weeks, graduated from Princeton at age ten, and completed medical school four years later. Now, at age 16, Doogie's the only intern at the hospital who's still ex­periencing puberty. 
From the creators of "Hill Street Blues" and "L.A. Law," "Doogie" is a "drame­dy" (remember those from a few years ago?). The show presents a half hour drama containing many funny ele­ments sans laugh track. Until now, ABC boasted of TV's only existing "dramedy" "The Wonder Years." Now it has a new one-one that ex­ecutives hope will survive longer than "Hooperman," "The 'Slap' Maxwell Story," and "Frank's Place." 
"Doogie Howser" is great fun. One episode in­volves the arrival of a new radiologist, Dr. Burke, at the hospital. She's a ve.ry beauti­ful woman, a fact that Howser's partner Dr. McGuire (Mithcell Anderson) wasted no time noticing. As luck would have it, Dr. Burke wants a baby. The problem: she's not married and has no boyfriend. The solution: she goes after someone who can aid her in having a baby. She 
JOE • 
BUCOLO ~~~· 
To be continued 
bruises McGuire's ego and chooses Doogie. 
A hilarious scene occurs when Dr. Burke takes Doogie on a date to a restaurant. His legs are bouncing, and he's a nervous wreck. Then, when Dr. Burke reveals her true intentions, Doogie's already out-of-whack hormones go bananas. Doogie's friend, Vinnie (Max Casella), tells Doogie to take advantage of this opportunity: "You've won the libido lottery." In the end, Doogie makes what he calls his first adult deci­sion by saying "no." If that's his first adult decision, what was the choice to become a doctor? 
Two carefully combined elements inject "Doogie Howser, M.D." with its vitali­ty. The writing of the show is wonderful. Bluntly, the premise of the show is quite far-fetched; however, through serious, creative writing, the show's execu­tives brilliantly take the viewers beyond the show's incredulity. This is Emmy material. 
The second element is Har­ris himself. Viewers need to "tune in" to see just how great he is. The cleverly written scripts require a gen­uinely gifted actor to bring the show to its viewers in a realistic way. Harris is a tru­ly talented young star who surpasses even the plausibili­ty of Fred Savage in "The Wonder Years." 
In short, "Doogie Howser, M.D." is the perfect prescrip­tion for quality entertain­ment. This program is an 
I.V. of creativity and comic relief. Depressed? Sad? Take this show for half an hour and call in the morning. 


The correct way to avoid 


t's that time of year again, as the bashful 
trees of summer finish 
their colorful Autumn 
striptease, the warm 
breezes change to cold 
winds and the echoes of 
countless tortured 
screams of agony reverberate 
across the campus. Yes, Mid­
There's plenty of fun to be had at the li­brary; after you've finished looking up the dirty words in the dictionary, try finding out what's on the mysterious missing floors. 
terms have returned, and whether you're going though this hell yourself or merely laughing at your friends who are, here are some tips to get you through the rest of the week. 
Avoiding Work at the Library 
There's plenty of fun to be had at the library; after you've finished looking up dirty words in the dictionary, try finding out what's on the mysterious miss­ing floors. 
Okay, okay, so its a standard joke on freshmen to tell them that their class is meeting in 311 Hesburgh. Do you really know what's up there? Or have you just fallen for the cover sto­ry perpetrated by a security­mad university--you don't really believe the "maintenance and meeting rooms" explanation, do you? You can't actually see for yourself by going to the third or fourteenth floors of the library; the elevator won't stop there, and the door to the fire stairs is mysteriously locked. Yes, all the doors on all the flights of stairs. I checked. It's amazing what lengths you will go to to avoid studying. Growing suspi-

IAN MITCHELL 
Lion Taming 
cious, I asked at the circulation 
desk as I checked out my books. 
Me: "By the way, what is 
really on the third and four­
teenth floors of this building?" 
Her: Obviously giving her 
full attention to venting her in­
ner fury in the sheer joy of 
date-stamping the books ("ka­
chung")--"I don't know." 
She didn't know. A likely 
story. I, of course, immediately 
smelt a cover-up of massive 
proportions. 
Me: "Just what are you try­
ing to hide, lady?" 
Her: "People who ask too 
many questions ("ka-chung") 
tend to get their library privi­
leges revoked. ("ka-chung") 
Permanently. Heh heh heh ha 
ha." 
Okay, okay, so maybe I 
made up that last part. It could 
have happened. Why not waste 
an hour or so of valuable study 
time to find out for yourself 
what's up there? 
Avoiding Studying in Your Room 
Studying in your room is 
probably almost impossible 
anyway, thanks to distractions 
like radio, television, your 
roommate(s) and the all­
important snack break. 
A truly great snack break 
will: a) take a long time, b) re­
quire you to leave your books, 
and c) involve other people so 
you don't feel so guilty about 
not working. A good example 
of the ultimate snack break 
would be making a quick run to 
Chicago with some friends for a 
pizza. 
If you're actually planning 
on working in your room, don't 
despair, you can still grab a 
snack. Although, due to wise 
university policy, microwaves 
and toaster ovens are not al­
lowed in dorm rooms, creative 
use of non-culinary devices al­lows one to prepare a meal fit for a king. (Once the grilled cheese cools, though, it's a little hard to scrape off the iron.) 
It's also a good idea to re­member that unsubstantiated campus rumor has it that if your roommate dies during mid-terms, you have an auto­matic 4.0. If you're really in a tight jam, just practice saying the following with a straight face: "Honest officer, he just grabbed the baseball bat, and before I could stop him, he clubbed himself unconscious and repeatedly threw himself on the knife." With a plan this good, why study at all? 
Avoiding Failing Your Classes 

After all the papers and tests, it's only natural that sometimes we'd like to be able to put one over on our profes­sors. This story probably isn't true; it hasn't happened to any­one I know, but it's so good it bears repeating: 
Once upon a time there was a large, impersonal lecture class taking an exam. The pro­fessor, who was a stickler for promptness, called time and collected all the tests, placing the identical blue books in a stack on his desk. Then he no­ticed that one student was still working on his test, even after he had called time. 
"Young man," he said, as the student finished his test and walked towards the front. "I will have to give you an 'F' on that test; I told you the exami­nation period was over a full three minutes ago." 
The student, shocked, re­sponded somewhat pompously: "You're going to give me an 'F'? You're going to fail me? You can't fail me; do you have any idea who I am?" 
The professor replied, "No, and I don't really care, either." So the student responded, "Good," slipped his test into the stack on the desk, where it be­came lost in the sea of identical blue books, and walked out. 
page 9

Monday, October 16, 1989 The Observer 
The Observer accepts class1fleds every bus1ness day from 10 a m to 3 30 p ~· ~~ the Noire Dame off1ce. 314 LaFortune and trom 12.30 to 3 p m. a: the Sa1nt Mary 5 off1ce Haggar College Center. Deadl1ne for next day class1f1eds IS 3 p m All class1heds rnusl be 
prepa1d The charge IS 2 cents per character per day 1nclud1ng spaces
Classifieds 
I need a ride to anywhere near 
Cleveland over break. Call Will 4048

NOTICES WANTED 
BE ON T.V. many needed for 
I

PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard 
3 blks. from ND campus 233-2342 commercials. Now hiring all ages. For fOR RENT casting info. call (615) 779-7111 Ext. ._____________J
$$$ FOR YOUR BOOKS T-1481WE BUY AND SELL USED -------------------------------------BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
TEXTBOOKS !!1!111!!!!111!!! 
ATTENTION-HIRING! Government 219-291-7153 jobs-your area. $17,840-$69,485-r-----------.
Spee-Dee 
Call 1-602-838-8885. Ext R6262
Wordprocessing FOR SALE 237-1949 
-----------------------------SPRING BREAK 1990 -Individual or Typing. Term papers, resumes, etc. or student organization needed to ATTENTION-GOVERNMENT IBM PC. Call Sue's Secretarial Service ·promote our Spring Break trips. Earn SEIZED VEHICLES from $100 Fords, 
at 299-0063. money, free trips and valuable work Mercedes, Corvettes, Chevys. Surplus experience. APPLY NOW!! Call Inter-Buyers Guide. 1-602-838-8885 EXT. 
WORDPROCESSING ~:~~-~~-~~~~~:~~--~~~~~---~~-7 -6013. ~~~~-~: ___________________________ _ 
272-8827 ATTENTION-GOVERNMENT 
STUDENT talent SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. Fords,

•••••••..••••••••••Nov. 1Oth lmprov
Spee-Dee Mercedes, Corvettes, Chevys. Surplus 
Contest at

Wordprocessing Buyers Guide. 1-602-838-8885 EXT.
Alumni Sr Club prizes up to
237-1949 A6262.
$$$$100.00 Typing. Term papers, resumes, etc. or ------------------------------------­
TANDY COMPUTER, COLOR IBM PC. Call Sue's Secretarial Service Deadlin for lmprov nile at Alum. SR. 
MONITOR, DOT MATRIX PRINTER 

at 299-0063. Club OCT. 19th call277-3653 
DESK/HUTCH & CHAIR , -------------------------------------leave name and number... 
$2,000.00 OR BEST OFFER. WORDPROCESSING CALL AFTER 6PM 234-3131. 272-8827 
BE ON T.V. many needed for 
commercials. Now hiring all ages. For ··-·--------------------------·-----­
casting info. call (615) 779-7111 Ext.
VALUE CHECKS are available 
T-1481 Winter is coming.
at the Information Desk . If you have -------------------------------------For sale 100%, great, cheap leather ordered one, please pick 
ATTENTION-HIRING! Government jackets.
your book up at the Information Desk. jobs-your area. $17,840-$69,485. 
Call Pedro x1 002 TYPING AVAILABLE. 
Call 1-602-838-8885. Ext R6262 
287-4082. SPRING BREAK 1990 -Individual or 
TICKETS 

student organization needed to promote our Spring Break trips. Earn
ROCKET SHIRTS ? Travel Tour Operator needs tickets for 
money, free trips and valuable work 
277-5647 EVENINGS all N.D. games-home and away,
experience. APPLY NOW!! Call Inter­
especially MSU, USC and Miami.

Campus Programs: 1-800-327-6013 
Premium price paid. Immediate case

LOST/FOUND 
available. Will trade for all majorSTUDENT talent sporting events including Final 4, Indy

...................Nov. 10th lmprov
LOST: Signet Ring with initials 500 and bowl game, etc. Will also buy 
Contest at

WFH lost in south quad by Alumni. season tickets. Please call Dave at 1­Important sentimental 800-828-8955 today. 
Alumni Sr Club prizes up to reasons. Please call Bill at 1553. 
$$$$100.00 
You will be rewarded . I promise I'll buy any tickets for any home game, Thank you very much. or Miami.
Deadlin for lmprov nile at Alum. SR. Club OCT. 19th call277-3653 call JEFF at 239-3714,
leave name and number... 
leave a message. Thanks. LOST: Signet Ring with initials WFH lost in south quad by Alumni. 
SICK OF LIVING ON-CAMPUS?? Important sentimental 
--WE NEED EACH OTHER-­•• NEED TWO ROOMMATEs•• Need TXTS All Games call Bill 
reasons. Please call Bill at 1553. 
277-3653

FOR A GREAT HOUSE Thank you very much. 
You will be rewarded , I promise 
FOR SPRING SEMESTER 1990. GREAT LOCATION ON ANGELA------------------------------------­BLVD. 1/4 MILE FROM CAMPUS!! Call FRANK 287-5320 --CHEAP RENT ------------------------------------­
LOST: FUN ROOMMATES!! NEED GAS FOR PITT,Silver chain-link bracelet. 
CALL KARIN, KELLY, OR JULIE NAVY & SMU $$$$Lost somewhere between @287-9378 CALL TOM & MARTY Farley Hall and D2 parking 
------------------------------------X 3185 
lot Need ride from NJ to ND on Oct. 29. ------------------------------------­Please call Chris at 1836 
Will share expenses. Jerry 272-7449 
Great sentimental value. 
NEED 3 PITT GA TIX $$ CALL: 4272 

A $20 reward for manila envelope Wanted: Apple liE computer. (81/2 x 11 1/2) containing Spanish Call Amy, 239-7308. 
WANTED: USC TIX BETWEEN THE 2(

translations in process. ------------------------------------­YD. LINES. WILL BUY OR EXCHANGECall 239-6166 or evenings 277-7043. WANTED: Bass player for a END ZONE SEATS +CASH OR -------------------------------------classic/alternate rock band. 
TICKETS TO NAVY, PITT OR SMU.

LOST: THE FACE PART OF A Call John at 4282. 
800-323-7687.

HELBROS QUARTZ WATCH. IT FELL ------------------------------------­OFF THE BAND. ETC. •••••NEW Ao••••• NEED USC TIX JOE 1714
IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL I NEED!!!!!! KRISTEN AT #4865 AND I WILL 2 USC GA's!! THINK YOU ARE COOL. 2 SMU GA's or studs 
1 or 2ND/USC tickets wanted. Call 

------------------------------------A ride to Pittsburgh after USC Call Debbie 1880 or 3735. ~:~-~~-:~-:~~-~~~~!-~~-~~~:~ 9 nights IF YOU FOUND A BASKETBALL 
NEAR THE BOOKSTORE COURTS -------------------------------------NEED TWO GA'S FOR ANY HOME ON SATURDAY NIGHT OCTOBER 7, 1 Looking for a fraternity, sorority or GAME ---CALL WOULD REALLY APPRECIATE student organization that would like to PAUL X3406 
GETTING IT BACK. IT WAS MY make $500-$1 ,000 for a one week on-------------------------------------­ROOMMATE'S. THANKS FOR YOUR campus marketing project. Must be I NEED ST. TICKS FOR PITT HELP. CALL MIKE AT 2318. organized and hardworking. Call Joe -----PAUL X3406----­-------------------------------------or Myra at (800) 592-2121. ------------------------------------­
--------T·-·•-•••••••••••••••••••••• 
NEED 8 USC TIX

•••• CASH TODAY •••• for USC CALL2207MY BROWN LEATHER JACKET AND 
DUKE SWEATSHIRT ,PITT tix stu or ga -Mark 271-5691. WERE TAKEN FROM THE ROCKNE NEED 2 TICKETS FOR NOTRE
BUILDING ON 10/5 WANTED-ride to Ohio on 80-90 E. 
DAME/USC GAME. PLEASE CALL

BETWEEN 2 AND 3 O'CLOCK. leaving after USC game, will share COLLECT 619/565-8303. ASK FORTHEY HAVE MUCH PERSONAL expenses please call Kevin x1647 LARRY CORRIGAN. 
VALUE TO ME-PLEASE RETURN, NO QUESTIONS ASKED REWARD 
OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo. 
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S

Summer, Yr. round. All Countries, All 
GIVEN. 
WILL PAY TOP$

fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO BX 52­
CINDY. 220 KNOTT, #4928. 
PLEASE CALL KEVIN x3170Corona Del Mar CA 92625 

FOUND -3 keys on a wooden ND key FEDERAL, STATE, AND CIVIL NEED 2 GA'S FOR BOTH PITT.
chain at party on ND Ave. They are SERVICE JOBS! NOW HIRING THIS AND NAVY CALL CHERIE 4969dorm keys. Call 2798 AREA! $10,271-$84,157. IMMEDIATE------------------------------------­OPENINGS! CALL 1-315-733-6062 I need a USC GA worse than all the"Lost": Woman's Corvair Bike ...White rest of these lying schmucks!!
with blue trim.Big Basket. Great John, 277-7450. PLEASE!
sentimental value. Any info call Bridget EXT #2382H FOR CURRENT at 2547. LISTING. 
HEY YOU! Yeah, you. The one with the USC GA's. Call John atLost TAN, POLO JACKET at the I am looking for any USCvs.ND 

(219)-283-2005 for$$$$ or 2 SMU 

SENIOR CLASS CRUISE on FRIDAY. T-shirts. Call Chris at x.1692.
-------------------------------------GA's.
PLEASE CALL GEORGE at 1694 if you 
NEED RIDE TO PITTS AREA FOR
have found the jacket. THANK YOU. 
BREAK! WILL HELP WITH ALUMNI SR. CLUB MEMBERS ... EXPENSES. Sheri x3567 MIAMI trip raffle for members only FOUND: Calculator in 206 Cushing. 
on Thurs Oct. 19th 10:00 pmCall Richard at x3263 and discribe it. If NEEDED: win a trip for two to game, flight tickets not, I have a new calculator. 

6USCGA'S REM AT and hotel. It's not too late to buy a NDBOOT membership $25 checks only. RIDE PHILA TO ND AFTER BREAK Membership has it's privledges!!! 
LOST: HOT PINK BACKPACK 3SMUTIX FROM NORTH DINING HALL ON CALL STEVE FOR $$$ 10/11 . I NEED MY PHYSICS You need TXTS. call277-3653 
TEST-PLEASE!! CALL LISA AT FALL BREAK !I #4838, OR LEAVE TEST AT PHILADELPHIA-SOUTH JERSEY SIEGFRIED DESK. I NEED A RIDE AFTER USC AND Need student tickets for USC. 
BACK B4 PITT -DAVE 1209 Will pay$$$$. Call Bill, 271-8483 NEED 5 GA TIX FOR NAVY. CALLNEED USC TICKETSI NEED 1 USC GA 
M.T. CREIGHTON 272-0498 OR2 G A's , 2 STUD'sPlease call Tim @ 1772 
239-6661.
Call x4266 or 277-2290 $$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I need 2 NAVY GAs. Please call 
I NEED 1 USC GA-I HAVE PITT Stanley #2015. SMU STU. TIX(ON THE 50) AND, A LOT OF$$$$$$$-CALL ANDY AT Need 2 USC GA's or STUD 
I need 4 SMU GA's KIM 3881 
3114. FOR SALE:1 USC & 1 PITT ST TIK $$$$$$$$$$$$$
and 2 PITT GA's or STUD 
CHRIS X3360 (Parents will pay BIG $$$$) NEED 3 OR 4 USC GA TX. GOOD
Call CHRIS at x3278 
BUCKS. 233-2651. I need USC,SMU and Miami GAs Mike 287-3087 I NEED USC STUDENT TIX 
NEED 3 USC STUDENT TX. $$$$ AS WELL AS GA'S 
233-2651. CALL LLOYD AT x1684 NEED USC TICKETS 2 G A's , 2 STUD's Call x4266 or 277-2290 Need two USC and two PITT tix. Call Luke x3113 
COLLEGE REPUBLICAN MEETING ON TUES. 10/17 I need 4 SMU GA's KIM 3881 AT Bpm IN THE N.D. ROOM
TICKETS WANTED FOR PITT-ND GAME. 312-655-4595. 
OF LAFORTUNE * * * * * * ••*** *** *••*••** *** * * * * * *** * * ** 
Need 2 USC GA's or STUD and 2 PITT GA's or STUD NEED 2 OR 3 TICKETS TO NOTRE
I NEED USC, PITT AND MIAMI TIX (Parents will pay BIG $$$$) CHUCK X3302 DAME-NAVY GAME 11/4. CALL Call CHRIS at x3278 COLLECT 7-9 PM. (602) 943-9204. 
If you don't sell me 9 PITT GAs I Need two SMU tix please call 284-will BLOW UP THE STADIUM AND NEED 2 TICKETS ND-USC GAME. 4930!!!!!!1!!! PARENTS DRIVING 400 MILES 
THEN NO ONE CAN WATCH THE GAME!!!! Pete L x1791 
FROM OHIO TO SEE GAME. PLEASE Need TXTS All Games call Bill CALL MARY LOU OR TOM GLASER 277-3653 
234-0610. .
Have 3 PITT STUD 4289 
I WILL TRADE USC STUDENT BIG MONEY FOR USC TICKETS TICKETS FOR USC GA'S!!! 
YO! POTATOHEADS ARE COMING 
ALLTHE WAY FROM IDAHO TO SEE NEED 10. STUDENTorGA CALL TIM X1790 OR X1805
THE USC GAME. SELL ME STUD OF 
Call FRANK 287-5320 
GA'S. CALL SCOTT@ 272-2596. 
If you're a bourgeois-pig scalper, I NEED GAS FOR PITT, don~ want your damn tix. I'll pay a just NAVY & SMU $$$$ person a fair price for USC ga or

NEED 1 PITT STUDENT 
CALL TOM & MARTY stud's..
2NAVYGA 
X3185 Please call Marty x277 -4392 
MONEY NO PROS. PAT 1236 
Trade 1 Pitt stutic for your Navy stutic NEED 3 PITT GA TIX Sean X2311. 
I NEED MIAMI +ANY HOME GA'S 
$$ CALL: 4272 HELP CALL X3516. 

NEED 4 USC GAs 
Call ERIN #3622 WANTED: USC TIX BETWEEN THE 20 YD. LINES. WILL BUY OR EXCHANGE HELP!HELP!HELP! My parents
NEED PITT GAs WILL PAY BIG 
END ZONE SEATS+ CASH OR havenever been to a N.D. game
$$$.CALL KEVIN 277-7167 
TICKETS TO NAVY, PITT OR SMU. need G.A.'s for PITT (one stu.) 800-323-7687. PLEASE call 284-5529
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. BIG$$$$. 277-9869. 
NEED USC TIX JOE 1714 I Need 4 GA's for Navy! Call 284­5532 PLEASE!
I HAVE TWO SMU GAS! 
I NEED TWO NAVY GAS. 1 or 2 NDIUSC tickets wanted. Call Need 7 NAVY GAs! Julie X3141
LET'S SWAP! 
Mac COLLECT (509) 325-0519 nights 
BOBX3324 
TOP$ NEED TWO GA'S FOR ANY HOME ALL HOME GA'S
NEED 2 GAs FOR NAVY 
GAME ---CALL 312-920-9350
CALL ANN 284-4223 PAUL X3406 
I NEED ST. TICKS FOR PITT I NEED USC, MIAMI, & ALL HOME
I need MANY GA's for both USC 
----PAUL X3406-----GAME TIX 272-6306
and Pitt. Call Joe at 255-mo before you leave for fall break. 
··---·---------·--------------------! 
NAVYNA VYNA VYNA VYNA VY NEED 8 USC TIX I need 5 G.A.'s CALL2207 or anything you have together I NEED USC TIX 
NAME YOUR PRICE!!!! NEED 2 TICKETS FOR NOTRE Call Kyle-#3775
2GA's 
DAME/USC GAME. PLEASE CALL 2STUDS 
COLLECT 619/565-8303. ASK FOR KRISTI -3778 
LARRY CORRIGAN. 
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
I need 1 USC Ticket WILL PAY TOP$ WANTED: MIAMI TICKETS
call Dan x1417 PLEASE CALL KEVIN x3170 CALL MATT AT 1961 
NEED 3 TICKETS FOR ND-USC 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ PLEASE HELP! CALL COLLECT 216 NEED 2 GA'S FOR BOTH PITT. 247-2828 RODGER 
$$USC$$ AND NAVY CALL CHERIE 4969 I NEED YOU, YOU NEED ME !! NEED 3 TICKETS FOR ND-USC 
I've PITT Tix, You've 3 USC GA's Let's DEAL some $$$ Flow !!!
I need a USC GA worse than all the PLEASE HELP! CALL COLLECT 216 Call Matt x1304rest of these lying schmucks!! 247-2828 RODGER John, 277-7450. PLEASE! 
I need two student tickets to the USC game. Call Martha at x1331.
HEY YOU! Yeah, you. The one with NEED 2 SMU GAS! the USC GA's. Call John at NEED 2 SMU GAS! 
I need GA tixs for all home games (219)-283-2005 for$$$$ or 2 SMU $$ X3883 $$ Esp. for USC $$ 284-5227 Patty
GA's. TRADE 1 PITT GA FOR 1 USC GA CALL 1655 OR 4224 Can I please have 2 GA's and 1 
I need 3 GAs for the SMU game, in 
student ticket for the USC football ALUMNI SR. CLUB MEMBERS... 
game and 4 student tickets for the MIAMI trip raffle for members only 
section 1-5 or 36. Also need one stud 
Pittsburgh one? I'm Tom arid my on Thurs Oct. 19th 10:00 pm 
tx for the same game. Call Jerry at 
phone number is 1128. Thank you.
x4113.
win a trip for two to game, flight tickets and hotel. It's not too late to buy a 
I NEED TO TRADE 4 SMU OR membership $25 checks only. 
2 PITT GA'S FOR AS MANY Membership has it's privledges!!! 
Need PITT tix 
USC GA'S AS POSSIBLE Jilx1915 Stud&GA PLEASE CALL 284 5022. 
You need TXTS. call277-3653 NEED 2 USC GA'S. CALL MIKE 312­871-3270. 
Mom and Dad are kind of weird. Even Need student tickets for USC. 
after seeing the boring Purdue game, Will pay$$$$. Call Bill, 271-8483 
NEED 4 PITT GA'S & 2 USC TIX. they rarin' to see more ND football. MONEY NO PROBLEM! MIKE X123E Help them out. They'll buy any two NEED 2 USC GA'S BADLYl 
G.A.s for any home game.CALL MOLLY X3885 
Call #3714 and leave a message. 
I NEED 1 USC GA Need SMU Stu. $$ Call Mary Lee Please call Tim @ 1772 x2625 
NEED 2 or 4 Pitt GA's Call Eric x1008 
I NEED USC and PITT GAs badly I need 2 NAVY GAs. Please call Will PAY BIG$$$$$$ or trade for USC 
NEED 1 USC & 1 PITT GA CALL 
Stanley #2015. weekend hotel Reservations 16550R 4224
Call Dan at 271-9821 
I NEED PITT, SMU GA'S FOR SALE:1 USC & 1 PITT ST TIK 
USC AND PITT STUD TIC FOR SALE. PLEASE!! #2819
CHRISX3360 CALL JEN 3857 OR 3847. 
NEED PITT GA'S 
$$FATHER WILL KILL SON IF HE 
BETH 3706 
DOES NOT GET A GA TO THE PITT I need USC,SMU and Miami GAs Mike GAME. HELP ME OUT! CALL JOHN 287-3087 AT 3632 OR 36261$$ 
see CLASSIFIED I page 1 0 
---
.. 
-


page 10 -The Observer Monday, October 16, 1989 
• 
The Investment Banking Industry 

• 
Opportunities in the Financial Anal:yst Program, 


Refreshments Provided 
-
Contact the University ofNotre Dame Career and Placement Services Center for additional information 
.. 
MORGAN STANLEY & CO. 
Incorporated 

Classified 
continued from page 9 

2 Tixs to all Home Games for sale 272­5092 
ATIENTION I! HAVE RESERVATIONS FOR GRADUATION 1990 WILL "DEAL" G.A.'S FOR ANY '89 HOME GAME CALL DEBBIE AT 284-5202 
IF YOU HAVE A USC STUDENT TICKET TO SELL PLEASE CALL LISA 4937 
USC and NAVY G.A.'s and Student needed x1927 

DESPERATELY IN NEED OF 3 USC TICKETS OR AS MANY AS SOMEONE HAS TO OFFER. MONEY NO PROBLEM. CALL CARl AT 271­5651 
Help 2 ND GRADS driving from Houston.Need 2 USC tix-GA or student. Will pay $$$. Call Dena or Eric collect (713)669-8326.
-
NEED NAVY TIX!!! HAVE SMU FOR SALE !I! X2880 
NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY I need 4 GA's and 2 Stud tickets for NAVYII Call Steve@ x16611 NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY 
NEED 4 NAVY GA's PLEASE CALL KARIN x1321 
NEED 2 OR 3 USC GA'S 1 PITI STUD TRACY X2613 
NEED 2 OR 3 USC GA'S 1 PITISTUD $$$$ TRACY X2613 
NEED 4USC 2NAVY 2 SMU TIX NOW 1$!$!$ CALL STEVE #1650 

-
-
We need USC student tickets and I NEED 1 USC AND 1 PITI TICKET. 2 Navy GA's. Please call Brian or GA'S OR STUD. Matt at x.1695. CALL MIKE AT X.1751 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED MANY USC GA'S OR STUD. TIX Need Pitt GAs and Studs X232-9857 call Jeff or Marty 2n-tt80 
I NEED USC, AND NAVY GA'S FOR 
MY PARENTS COMING IN FORNEED: many USC student tickets THEIR FIRST FOOTBALL GAMES. I ALSO NEED TWO PITT STUDENT TICKETS. PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 
Rich Alumni Father Megan 2518 
3586. 
Needs USC GAs $$$ reward for your help I NEED GA AND STU TIX FOR USC 
AND PITI. CALL CHRIS AT x1067 Call Tim X2037 
NEED smu ga's 2n-5934 I have USC & Pitt studs. Best offer. Call Chris @ x2727. 
I NEED 2, 4, or 6 GA's for USC Call '1he Scooter'' or Jim at 
Have USC & Pitt St. tickets the Moneystore #427 4 
Ca11Tom4180 
NEED LOTS OF NAVY TIX-GA'S or I need USC tix 
STUD. CALL TOM-1694. Call Matt #1791 
I NEED USC TICKETS GA'S OR STUDENT 
I have 1 PITT STUD. ticket. 
LOTS OF CASH TO BURN Call X4897 . Best offer by 10/16. ,EARN SOME DOUGH Leave message.
CALL DAN, 239-5472 HELP! BROS COMING FROM TEXAS, NEED 2 USC GA'S X2482I NEED 1 USC STUD. MIKE #4057 
NEED USC -Have PITI 
Will trade or pay$$!! NEED PITITIX 1333 Kay. STUDENT &GA's Brian X1521 
HAVE USC Stud Tix Need Navy Tix X1715 $$No Issue Best Offer Jen 284-411 0 
SELL US 2 U S.C TIX NOW! Will Trade 2 SMU GA's For 2 Navy GA's call J. or T.@ 1870. Also Need 1 Navy Stud x1704 
NEED 2 USC TIX. MAURA 288-0885. I need a PITI GA. Pay $$$. Call Bill x1103 
PITI TIX PITI TIX PITI TIX PITI NEED ANY PITI GA'S $$$$$$$$ NEED 4 GA'S CALL TIM #1699 MUGHO DINERO$ BOB Q X1409 I WANT YOU TO MAKE MY DAY! 
NEED 2 PITI GA'S. CALL SANDY X4012 

Seniors ofAll 1~/ajors Are lrn·ited to a Presentation on 
Opportunities in Investrnelllt Banking 
Thu'rsda:y, October 19, 1989 University Club 
6:00 P.l\11. 
Representatives ofMorgan Stanley will be present to discuss: 
YOU ARE MY SUNSHINE, MY ONLY 
SUNSHINE 111!111 
Have a swell day Mamba! 
PHIL KRAKER YOU BIG STUD ! 

Would you consider autographing my copy of The Observer with your picture in it? If I lived on the third floor of Flanner I would hang it in every bathroom stall on the floor and take the opportunity to mock you incessantly. Of course, I love it but it isn~ everyday when your RA becomes a coverboy! 
------your PE luvah 

MARY MAHONEY! MARY MAHONEY! 
MARY MAHONEY I 
BWCHESS! PPEMDS! 
(SMALL FAMILIES) 

I'm ready for circus lunch, are you? 
--your lovah 
Molly 

BABYCAKES DAYCAMPER, QUACK! DID I SURPRISE YOU? ITS BEEN 2 YEARS AND 4 MONTHS NOW SINCE I FOUND YOU AT NERD CAMP. SHOULD WE THANK MOM AND DAD? ROOM 108 WAS GREATII PROMISE FOREVER AND A DAY. THIS KU CHIC LOVES YOU LOTS! BABE-BABE 
HELP! Please sell me your USC tickets!! Call Tina at x4840 

Anyone interested in taking a bus to and from DC for fall break show up at the Flanner Hall pit at 8PM on Tues night. RT tix is $80, One way is $45. 
sturmfest this friday. stay tuned for details. 
CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable atmosphere, daily & weekly specials, pool table, English darts, and great company. 234-3541 
ADOPTION: Loving, professional 
couple in Midwest wishes to adopt 
newborn. We offer stable and happy 
home, financial security, welcommg 
extended family. PLEASE call collect 
513-751-6711 alter 6:30pm 
weekdays. anytime 
weekends.Attorney involved. 

see CLASSIFIED I page 11 
I NEED NAVY GA'S PETE 271-8795 
I NEED 2 USC STUD TIX CALL BOB X1747 
NEED GA'S TO USC OR SMU!!! WILL PAY!!!! CALL X2658 (BOLT) -HEIDI 
HELP ME!! I NEED 2 PITI GA's CALL CHRIS @1027 
NEED 3 USC STUD TiX $$ BIG BUCKS $$ (I'm not kidding) Call "MONEYBAGS" PAT x3317 
I need 2 U$C GA's or 1 SMU st. My cash is greener than the jolly giant. PLEASE CALL ME! Jay 2314 
Need 11 GA's for Navy. 271-8347. Ask for Tony or Sue. 
NEED USC-STUDENT TIX and SMU-GA'S. PLEASE CALL AMY AT 283-4220. 
I'M SELLING A USC STUDENT 
TICKET-BEST OFFER BY TUESDAY DAN FOLEY: 
AT MIDNIGHT. CALL CAROL AT 4220. 
I NEED PITI GA'S!!!!! MY PARENTS WILL KILL ME IF I DON'T FIND THEM TICKETS!! PLEASE CALL CHRIS AT 283-4220 IF YOU CAN HELP ME 1 
PITI GA'S! 
PERSONALS 
ADOPTION, A LOVING 
ALTERNATIVE. 81 L ALUM WISHES 
TO ADOPT AN INFANT. LOVING 
HOME. CERTIFIED TO ADOPT, EXPENSES PAID. CAN BE CONFIDENTIAL OR OPEN. IF YOU OR SOMEONE YOU KNOW IS CONSIDERING ADOPTION, CALL MIKE & JEAN COLLECT AT 602-482­0905. 
Tim, Jude and Terry are: 'THE BALLS!!!!!" 
HiT.Bass!!! 
ADOPTION-Facing pregnancy alone? Let us help. Childless couple offering loving home and secure future for your infant. Confidential -medical and legal expenses paid. Call collect anytime, Sandy and Kurt (317) 894­5748. 
NEED A RIDE TO MPLS/ST. PAUL FOR OCT. BREAK! WILL HELP WITH GAS $$ CALL LARA X4526 OR MICHELLE X2696 
HiT.Bass!!! 
HI'SHIII!!!!!!!!!!IIIII! 
ADOPTION-Facing pregnancy alone? Let us help. Childless couple Jffering loving home and secure future for your infant. Confidential -medical and legal expenses paid. Call collect anytime, Sandy and t,<urt (317) 894-, 5748. 
NEED A RIDE TO MPLS/ST. PAUL FOR OCT. BREAK! WILL HELP WITH GAS $$ CALL LARA X4526 OR MICHELLE X2696 
need ride from StL to NO on 1 0/26 will pay $/drive. Dave X1808 
CONGRATS ON THE OPENING 
OF THE COPY SHOP IN LAFORTUNE!!! MAY YOUR SUCCESS CONTINUE TO DUPLICATE. 
LOVE, KERRY 
HELP!!! Need a ride home and back for October Break. Columbus /Canton /Zanesville areas. Will help with driving, tolls, and gas. Kristina x4902 
Allison's Big Day: Happy Birthday; hope you have a great day!!! We love ya, Brittany, Kelly, and Kathleen! 
Happy 21st, Daniel Francis Russell Ill! Hope you liked your birthday surprise!!! Love you! 
There once was a boy named Ted who was a real zer One night came a minor sporting black lace wares He later felt finer alter running his hand thru her hair They now refer to him as Rollie because of what came to pass But disclosing his name is sheer folly For the colonel is alter his ! 
. 

The Observer page 11 
Athletics get Series lead on punchless Giants 

Associated Press ting .145 in the Series, and Will 
Clark and Kevin Mitchell are 0­
0AKLAND, Calif. -Give for-6 with runners in scoring Oakland credit for pitching, position. San Francisco's only power and prophecy and give consolation came in ending a the Athletics a 2-0 lead in the 23-inning scoreless World World Series. Series streak that began in 
Oakland again made short 1962. work of San Francisco, beating Terry Steinbach, playing on a the Giants 5-1 Sunday night hunch by La Russa, hit a three-and threatening to turn the Bay run homer that made it 5-1 in Bridge meeting into a one-way the fourth. La Russa started affair. Steinbach, a right-handed hit-
Bob Welch, 19-4 lifetime ter, instead of lefty Ron Hassey against the Giants and 6-0 at at catcher against the right­Candlestick Park, will pitch for handed Rick Reuschel. Oakland in Game 3 against Don "Terry had been swinging Robinson, who has not started well in batting practice and last since Sept. 25. night he hit the ball hard," La 
"Th(}y're going about it very Russa said. professionally," Athletics man-Steinbach did it again, ending ager Tony La Russa said. "But any suspense early. it's not time to back ofT." "I thought it was gone, but at 
Mike Moore and two relievers the Coliseum you never know," held the Giants to four hits, one he said. "In my first at-bat, I day after Dave Stewart shut hit a ball to left field that I them out on just five. thought had a chance, but it 
"We've scored one run in two didn't." 
games and you're not going to La Russa said Hassey will 
win too many games like that," start Game 3 on Tuesday night. 
Giants manager Roger Craig San Francisco outhomered 
said. "Their pitching can't get Oakland 141-127 this season 
too much better." but the Athletics have now hit 
And the Giants' hitting can't three home runs, one more 
get much worse. They are bat-than they hit in last year's five-game World Series loss to Los Angeles. 
Rickey Henderson, who turned down a trade to San Francisco and instead accepted a deal to Oakland on June 20, went 3-for-3 with a walk and now has reached base in 20 of 32 postseason plate appear­ances. 
Jose Canseco again didn't hit the ball -he did walk twice ­but the Athletics didn't need him. He got nothing in two at­bats and is hitless in 23 World Series at-bats; the record slump is 0-for-31 by Detroit's Marvin Owen in the 1930s. 
For the Giants, a dangerous situation has suddenly gotten desperate. They went into the series with only two healthy starters, and Scott Garrelts and now Reuschel, who lasted two batters into the fifth, have been hit hard. 
Of the 39 teams that took a 2-0 lead in the World Series, 29 went on to win. 
From the start, Oakland did what it needed to do while the Giants did not. Henderson drew a leadoff walk-an open invi­tation to trouble! -stole sec-
Classified 
MIAMI FLIGHTS• MIAMI FLIGHTS SMC -ND STUDENTS SUMMER 
Round-trip airfares to Miami or Fort PROGRAMS -LONDON (MAY 23­
Lauderdale. Depart November 23 from JUNE 22) ROME (JUNE 17-JULY 16) 
Midway (Chicago); return November TRAVEL IN IRE., SCOT., FRANCE, 
continued from page 1 0 
?.7 to Midway (Chi.) . $239 for students, GER., & SWITZ. CLASSES IN BIO., 
$265 for others. Tix sold on first. BUEC, HIST., SOC., & ITALIAN. 
come. first-serve basis, and are non-
October Break refundable. Anthony Travel MEETING MON. OCT. 16 AT 7:00 Ride needed to Detroit Area for 1-800-7DOMERS ' P.M. IN CARROLL HALL (SMC), October Break. Will share gas. Want to --------·------------------------···· PIZZA, SLIDES, FORMER leave after USC game and return PARTICIPANTS, FACUL TV, & anytime after Thursday. PASSPORT PHOTOS. FOR MORE 
ADOPTION is a beautiful beginning. INFO. CALL DR. BLACK 284-4460 Please call Your baby will thrive as a loved OR 272-3762 
Matt @x1650 member of our happy family. Our family can't grow any other way. FLAVORED POPCORN SALTS FOR Medical/counseling expenses paid. SALE!! CALL JENN TO PURCHASE­
HiAg! Call collect anytime 0-317-497-9939. X4885 
ANYONE INTERESTED IN HELPING OUT WITH PAPER RECYCLING, PLEASE CALL LAURA MANZI AT X3484. ------·-----------------------------­
Hello, Jill M. Felicia. 
Hee Hee Hee! Houseplant. Houseplant House-plant Houseplant. Houseplant!!!!! 
HE MAY HAVE HAIR ON HIS CHEST, BUT SISTER, SO HAS LASSIE!­KISS ME KATE S.W.B.H.C. 
There will be no PITI CLUB bus for fall break due to the two football games. Count on one at Christmas. Questions? Call Steve (1177) or 
Kevin(288-4420) 
Need back a blue blazer lost 
amoung rest of blue blazers at 
SMC sophomore formal. A large 
jacket from Joesph A. Banks with 
three plain cufflinks . 
x1946 
Molly, Mary, Coyla, Theresa and Andi-You're the greatest! Love, a Fan of the Quint 
·one is not born a WOMAN, one becomes one."-5imone De Beauvoir, S.W.B.H.C. 
I WILL BE YOUR SLAVE FOR LIFE if you can give me a ride Chicago­NO at the END of break! Amy x1295 
..SELLING PITI STUD TIX .. CALL CARMINA #2890 
S.W.B.H.C. MEMBERS UNITE!! 
RIDERS NEEDED TO PITISBURGH FOR OCT. BREAK JOHN 277-6558 
Which college essential in this picture fits in your backpack? 

98Z: l.lOdSJ~ns ,SW;lJSAS mea l.IJ!U<Y]; l'luJpDFJU! ;}Aoqe ;llpJO IIV : .J;JA\SUV
The Zenitb SupersPort 286 battery-powered portable. 
The sPort that goes everywhere you and your backpack go. And with all the power of a desktop. 
As PC MAGAZINE. Oct '88 slates: "The SupersPort 286 is an incredible machine." Or as in !NFOWQRLD, Oct '88 says: "It embodies a combination of speed, weight, size. and battery life that we've seen in no other laptop computer." 
See for yourself where the SupersPort 286 can take you. Several portable models are available ranging in speed. hard drive capacity and price. Students, Faculty and Staff receive large discounts. Students, ask about our new loan program! 
'= 1 1 1 IJ () 
For more infonnation on Zenith's full line of ! computers. from laptops to desktops conlact: 

~~'*I data
systems 
The world's #1 selling PC compatibles. Get the best for less. 

ond and scored on Carney Lansford's double. 
Clark and Mitchell, mean­while, did not come through for San Francisco. Their bad showing with runners in scor­ing position early in the game when the Giants had a chance did not match the regular-sea­son numbers of a combined .343 in similar situations. They were 1-for-8 for the game with Mitchell reaching on a single in the fourth inning. 
Matt Williams, who led all playoff performers with nine RBis, went 0-for-4 and is hit­less in seven at-bats. In spring training, when Oakland won eight of nine against the Giants, Williams was 1-for-32 versus the Athletics. 
Moore had little difficulty, giving up four hits in seven in­nings. He struck out seven and walked one, and the Giants pulled few balls hard against him. 
Moore, second in the American League with 17 wild pitches, tied a World Series record held by many with two more wild pitches. 
ND competes at Volvos 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team competed at the Volvo Tennis Collegiate Championships prequalifica­tion rounds Saturday and Sunday in Athens, Ga. 
Walter Dolhare became the only Irish player to advance to Monday's action by defeating Arne Raave of South Florida 7-5, 6-0 and followed up with an easier win over Mark Krajewski of Illinois, 6-1, 6-1. 
Freshmen Chuck Coleman and Mark Schmidt made it through the first round of play, but failed to advance with losses in the second. Schmidt played a tough match against Ball State's Scott Campbell, winning 6-7, 6-3, 6-4, but was forced to default in his second sched­uled match due to injury. 
Dave DiLucia of the Irish has already been selected as an at-large entrant into the Championships. 

COUPON 
BRAKE INSPECTION SPECIAL 
:==r· 81495 
-~­
Offer Expires I0-31-89 
OUPON 
COCO WEATIIR B.ECTRICAL TEST 
Tes::~.ery. 
S1895 
Alarr.ator.i.. & Star<.et 
~~ac1ory 
'5915
60 ""CS Bll!tety 
Offer ExpiTes 10-3 I -89 

COLLEGE STUDENT CAR CARE 
COUPON 

RUSTPROORNG PACKAGE 
S~Avai~ 
Paint&Fabric 
S199

All WARRANTY ON VfHD..fS LESS nw. 1Y&\A a..o 
.....,.__,.ID~r 
,_....,_.,. 
Offer Expires I 0-3I-l!9 
COUPON 

COOLING SYSTEM CHECK 
Check hoses & belts 
$19.95

Check condition of antifr&eZe pressure test 
offer expires 10-31-89 
Coral's Technicians are trained to service any make and model, and will meet or Beat /lny 1\uthorized Dealer's Price or Pay you the difference in CASH! 
CORAL 
CORAL 
CORAL 
DBYSI.Bl/PlYMOUlll

NISSAN 
DODGE 
51176 US 31/33 N 
Grape at Day Rd. 
2703 Lincolnway W. 

South Bend 
Mishawaka 
Mishawaka 

2n-5aoo 
25G-15DD 
255-3141 


~---~~-~ ----~-------·---------------­
Monday, October 16, 1989
page 12 The Observer 
The ObseNer I Steve Moskop 
Ricky Watters kept the Air Force defense busy all day with the best rushing performance of his career. The junior tailback gained a game-high 96 yards and afterward said he was answering a challenge from Irish coach Lou Holtz. 
If someone paused to journey to the oxygen tank or even
Ismail 

blinked, which is much easier continued from page 16 and not as hazardous to your health as breathing with Pikes 
played some of its top fighter Peak in the background, he planes, planes with enough might have missed the return. force to probably destroy a for­It was that quick and that eign enemy but unable to help explosive. the Falcons between the Ismail struck again just endzones. before the half on a 24-yard 
Notre Dame waited a little reverse, a play executed so per­while to display its weapon, an fectly that no Falcon defender explosive Rocket with enough was near him. He virtually power to destroy the wild walked in for the score and a dreams and hopes of an entire 35-14 Irish lead. serviee aeademy. Ismail's 92 yards on the 
Ismail, alternating at the ground were a career high. lie tailback spot with Watters, had gained just 96 rushing gained 23 yards on three yards during the first five carries during Notre Dame's games of the season. first two possessions. The fervor with which Ismail 
Then, early in the second ran fails to show up in the period, Ismail exploded. He stats. He broke tackles with fielded a punt at the Notre ease, dragging the Air Force Dame 44, ran straight up the line, linebackers and secondary middle, cut to the left sideline, with him. pulled out of the grasp of "Any running back tries to punter Eric Olson and edged keep his feet moving," Ismail past a diving Jason Jones for said. "It's just determination. I the touchdown. That gave the feel comfortable when there's a Irish a 21-0 lead. big hole out there." 
"Everybody just blocked their guy," Ismail said. "Then a big When the Irish need a big hole opened up." play, Ismail steps forward. Rice 
A sign in Falcon Stadium is the ignition, and Ismail the warned Notre Dame that "Air weapon. Might it be time to is Hare" at these altitudes. include Ismail with the likes of People can make careers out of Rice, Ware, Harris, Dowis and just breathing here in God's any other upstart who wants to Country. jump in this Heisman race? 
Distribution of Remaining 1989 Yearbooks 
If you did not pick up your book last semester-Now is the time to do so. 
WHERE: The Dome Office 3rd Floor LaFortune 
WHEN: Tuesday-Friday 12:30-4:00 P.M. Until October 20, 1989 
Questions? Call 239-7524 
HURRYIITS YOUR LAST CHANCE 
~·. ~
... 
·.d~r -~~·1t~t ·~~~~;-/j.:.~'r:: 
~~~ ·, ___;, ;;;;,_f._. . ' ,,.., ~ P-

Air Force scores TD on a 'fumblerooskie' 
Who should win the left side, picked up the ball and It's a problem of getting dry­Heisman? scampered 12 yards for a first mouthed. We just had to keep 
"T. Rice," said Ismail, while down. the defense off the field." dressing with the enthusiasm That play did not cause any The temperature at gametime and conviction of a church argument. The second one did. was 65 degrees with a wind of choir member. Early in the fourth period, the 15 mph from the southeast. 
Is that Tony Rice, the one Falcons faced third-and-four at who everyone said should win it the Notre Dame 23. The Air ••• going away early in the season? Force center snapped the ball QUOTABLE-Zorich: "I think 
"Yep." and placed it behind the leg of their center had the most tack­offensive guard Steve Wilson. les. lie tackled me 9 or 15 Do you think you have a shot As Dowis went to the right, times." at the Heisman? Wilson picked up the ball and Grunhard: "I think they tried 
"No. Not this year." ran 23 yards virtually unnoticed very hard to counter this size to score the touchdown. It was thing. But our offensive line is Do you want to hear talk the first rushing touchdown just as quick as their defensive 
about the Heisman? scored against Notre Dame this line. We got our assignments." 
"No. It makes everything year. Air Force coach Fisher worse. You know it's not just The Irish argued that Wilson DeBerry: "Notre Dame is on you doing it by yourself. People had his knee down while block­course to be national champi­don't realize it's also the team ing during the play, thus mak­ons again. We could have made around you." ing him ineligible to carry the it closer than it was, but we 
ball. The referees let the play didn't force a lot of plays. We 
Hold that thought. If· you stand. still have a lot of goals out think this is bad, wait till you're "I thought he was down, and there. We have to learn from no longer a teenager. I told the official that," Notre this game and get ready for 
Dame coach Lou Holtz said. TCU next week." 

Manufacturers Bank will be on campus to present career opportunities 1n Commercial Lending and Financial Analysis 
Tuesday October 17, 1989 7:00pm to 9:00pm Alumni Room Morris Inn 
Please see the Placement Office for further details 
By GREG GUFFEY Assistant Sports Editor 
COLOHADO SPHINGS, Colo. ­Notre Dame turned in the big plays, but Air Force had the trick plays. 
The Falcons executed the "fumblerooskie" twice in their 41-27 loss to Notre Dame Saturday night at Falcon Stadium. The first play went for 12 yards, while the second one resulted in a 23-yard touchdown. 
Midway through the second quarter, the Air Force center left the ball on the ground in­stead of snapping it. Falcon quarterback Dee Dowis rolled to the right and offensive tackle 
D.T. Young came around the "lie said he didn't see it, and I said that was okay beeause our players didn't see it either." 
The mountain air took its toll on the Notre Dame players. The Irish were prepared with oxy­gen on the sidelines, but many players had trouble getting their breath after being on the field for an extended amount of time. 
"You can't breathe out there," Irish nose tackle Chris Zorich said. "I thought I was going to die. This is the only time that I've loved South Bend." 
Said Notre Dame offensive lineman Tim Grunhard, "All it does is make you real thirsty. 
Monday, October 16, 1989 
Miami stuns Bengals; Walker paces Vikings 
Associated Press 
Dan Marino came alive and the Miami Dolphins killed the 
Cincinnati  Bengals'  winning  
streak at home.  
Marino,  5-for-15  for  59  

yards in the first half, completed passes of 41, 34 and 36 yards to Mark Duper on three separate drives in the second half. setting up two touchdowns and a field goal. Marino also scored on a 1-yard bootleg in the third quarter as the Dolphins beat the Bengals 20-13. It was Cincinnati's first loss at Hiverfront Stadium, known as "The Jungle," since 
1987, a span of 12 games. 
"After playing as poorly as we did in the first half today, our defense kept us in the ballgame," Coach Don Shula said. "If we did anything at all offensively, we knew we could win the game." 
Also scoring surprising road wins were Detroit, Houston and Pittsburgh. 

The ClJserver I Steve Moskop 

When the Notre Dame defense did not allow him to get the vaunted Air Force wishbone attack in gear, Falcons quarterback Dee Dowis resorted to the passing game and had some success. Dowis completed 15­

PROCTER & GAMBLE 
FINANCE 

The Lions got their first victory of the year on Rodney Peete's 5-yard run and Eddie Murray's conversion with 23 seconds remaining for a 17-16 decision at Tampa Bay. The Oilers shocked Chicago 33-28, getting the winning points on Lorenzo White's 12-yard run with 1 :46 to go. Pittsburgh, embarrassed 51-0 in the season-opener against the Browns, won at Cleveland 17-7, forcing seven turnovers. 
Elsewhere, it was Minnesota 26, Green Bay 14 in Herschel Walker's debut for the Vikings; San Francisco 31, Dallas 14, even though Joe Montana did not play; the New York Giants 20, Washington 17; Atlanta 16, New England 15; the Los Angeles Raiders 20, Kansas City 14; Denver 14. Indianapolis 3; Seattle 17, San Diego 16; Philadelphia 17, Phoenix 5; and New Orleans 29, the New York Jets 14. 
On Monday night, the unbeaten Los Angeles Rams are at Buffalo. 
LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Toke a l1fesov1ng 
Red Cross CPR course.

+American Red Cross 
of-24 passes for 306 yards. 
Falcons 
continued from page 16 

and he passed for a career-high 306 yards. 
"It doesn't matter if you don't win," Dowis said of his passing yardage. "I didn't play very well. I've got some things to learn." 
The Irish got the first chance when Air Force won the toss and deferred until the second half, an option Notre Dame chooses each time it wins the toss. Said Notre Dame's Raghib Ismail, "Maybe they just wanted to show everybody they were ready." 
Notre Dame was the one that showed it was ready. The Irish marched 80 yards with Ricky Watters delivering the big blow, a 25-yard run from the Air Force 31-yard line. Anthony Johnson plowed over two plays later for the touchdown, his eighth of the season. 
After an Air Force punt, the Irish went 69 yards in 14 plays. They were again keyed by a big play, this time a 20-yard pass from Tony Rice to Ismail to the Air Force eight. Watters scored 

= 
= 
-
= == 
= 
= 
= 
= 
-_
= 
= 
= 
= ­
= 
is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
Day Editors 
For information, please contact Erin O'Neill at 239-5303 or 283-4215 
The people of Procter & Gamble present an overview of our Finance organization and employment opportunities within it. 
We want you to learn more about us so we can learn more about you. 
You Are Invited to Attend Date: Monday, October 16, 1989 a Presentation 
PEOPLE 

Time: 7:45PM 
We encourage casual dress­

OUR PRIMARY INVESTMENT Place: University Club, upper lounge 
please come as you are 

Key Speaker: C. F. Clark 
Comptroller
Refreshments and food to follow Foodservice & Lodging Products 

the touchdown two plays later on a five-yard run around the right side. 
Watters ran with renewed power in the first quarter, gaining 41 yards and scoring one touchdown. He finished with a game-high 96 yards, his best total of the season. 
"Coach Holtz came to me and 
said that except for Virginia 
and Michigan State, I haven't 
been running the ball with 
power," Watters said. "He gave 
me a challenge, and I accepted 
that challenge." 
With Air Force trying to keep the game tight, Ismail put it virtually out of reach. Early in the second quarter, he fielded a punt at the Notre Dame 44, ran untouched up the middle and dodged two tacklers for the touchdown. 
"Everyone just blocked per­fectly," he said. 
Air Force took its turn with the big play on the next series. From his own 3 9, Dowis hit Greg Johnson coming out of the backfield across the middle in full stride. Johnson ran almost untouched into the endzone to cut the lead to 21-7. 
The teams then traded a pair of touchdowns. First, Rice hit Johnson out of the backfield for a 27-yard touchdown. Dowis followed that act with a 26-yard touchdown pass to Steve Senn. 
With 2:45 to play in the first half, Irish nose tackle Chris Zorich recovered a Dowis fum­ble at the Air Force 35. Five plays later, Ismail scored again, this time on a 24-yard reverse to put the Irish ahead 35-14 at the half. 
Notre Dame held Air Force to open the second half, then put together a 57-yard drive that ended with a 20-yard field goal by Craig Hentrich, his seventh of the season. Hentrich added a 38-yard field goal early in the fourth period. 
The Falcons put together two scoring drives in the fourth quarter. 
KECK'~~~~:~~ATER 
~ 
-~ J'.f~ 

l~l'(
~ 
Bottled Spring Water Cooler Rental Free Dolivery 
For Same Day Service Call 
674-9992 

M bdefore 10:00 AM on ay through Friday 
-____..llllllil... 
page 14 The Observer Monday, October 16, 1989 
ND, Akron finish in a scoreless tie 
Gretzky breaks record 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Assistant Sports Editor 

It has been said that a tie is like kissing your sister. 
Well, if that is true than the Notre Dame men's soccer has been showing its opponents a lot of sibling affection lately. 
The Irish tallied their third tie of the season Friday night as they fought Akron to a 0-0 double overtime tie. 
"Hey, it wasn't a 'w' but to us it's just as good as one," Irish coach Dennis Grace said. "We were playing against a sea­soned team that is ranked in the top 20 nationally, and tra­ditionally Akron is respected as a strong defensive team. 
"So when we stop them from scoring and create more than them offensively and do more damage, I'm not going to get discouraged. We look at things here as more than just winning and losing because it's impor­tant to play a great game." 
Both squads allowed scoring opportunities to slip away, and neither team could get a firm grasp on the game's momen­tum. 

Danny Lyons 
Irish midfielder Steve LaVigne took three of Notre Dame's 10 shots on goal, including two that nearly found the net in the overtime periods. 
One such shot occurred in the first overtime when he found some open territory only 15 yards from the net, but he was met head-on by an Akron de­fender and the Zips' goalkeeper David Zupko. 
Freshman midfielder Paul Kaemmerer came close to scoring twice during overtime, but Akron's defenders consis­tently escorted the Irish out of their territory. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Men's basketball walk-on tryouts will be held at 7 p.m. tonight in the Joyce ACC Auxiliary Gym. All students are welcome to try out. 
Rowing Club will meet at 7:30p.m. tonight in 204 O'Shag to discuss fall break and pay for Boston and Philadelphia. 
Ski Club will meet at 8 p.m. Tuesday in Room 118 Nieuwland. Sign-ups and deposits will be collected for the Christmas trip to Jackson Hole, Wyom. Call x3662 or x2962 for more information. 
Irish Insanity will meet at 7:30 tonight at Montgomery Theatre in Lafortune Student Center. Joe Fredrick and Jamere Jackson, co-captains of the Notre Dame basketball team, will be special guest speakers at tonight's meeting. 
Irish 
continued from page 16 

Irish was the play of Fiebelkorn, who finished the night with 15 kills and 5 block assists. Haley expects her to be a real force in the future. 
"Number 11 (Fiebelkorn) really played well against our girls," said Haley. "Since Notre Dame is young, I really believe that they will have sterling per­formances later in the year. I'm glad we played them at this point of the season because they're going to turn some heads later." 
In the second game, Notre Dame dominated the Longhorns in every statistical category except the score. It was not until the final point that the Longhorns were con­vinced they had hooked th1 Irish. Notre Dame led Texas ir total kills 51-48. 
"This loss was very disap­pointing for us," stated Cunningham. "Texas seemed to be down, and we mirrored them." 
Texas moved to 13-6 on the season. The Longhorns were crushed by Kentucky in three games on Friday night. Notre Dame faces Kentucky on Nov. 5. 


THE KING OF COMEDY 
ROBERT DENIRO IS RUPERT PUPKIN­A MAN OBSESSED WITH BECOMING A STAR directed by Martin Scorsese 
TONIGHT 7:00 pm 
GOLDFINGER 
SEAN CONNERY IS THE REAL JAMES BOND 007 must stop the ruthless Auric Goldfinger, aided by none other than Pussy Galore. 
TUESDAY 7:00 pm 
The Zips presented the only substantial drama of the two hours of play after Akron for­ward David Wells drew a penalty while taking a shot in the penalty box. 
Wells powered his way to­ward the goal, and Irish goal­keeper Danny Lyons collided with him while trying to block his progress to the net. 
"When we play them throughout regulation without letting them score, then get called for a questionable penalty that gives their guy a free shot on our goal and we still prevent them from tallying a goal, you've got to be pleased," Grace said of his squad, which now stands at 5­5-3. 
"I hoped we would score after they missed that penalty kick because I felt like momentum had swung in our direction, but we didn't and in time the goals will come. We're not pushing any panic buttons. If we keep playing well we're going to start winning." 
against former team 
Associated Press 
EDMONTON, Alberta ­Wayne Gretzky became the NIIL's all-time leading scorer Sunday night, scoring his 1,851st point to lead the 
Los Angeles Kings to  a  5-4  
overtime  victory  over  the  
Edmonton Oilers.  

Gretzky, 28, broke Gordie Howe's record of 1,850 with a goal against Bill Hanford that tied the game 4-4 with 53 seconds remaining in regulation. 
Gretzky then capped the night by scoring in overtime to give the Kings a victory over the Oilers, the team he led to four Stanley Cups in five years. Gretzky, who also had an assist in game, wound up the night with 1,852 points. 
Hawks 3, Wings 0 
Goalie Jacques Cloutier stopped 21 shots for Chicago's first shutout in more than two years as the Blackhawks beat the Detroit Red Wings 3-0, their first shutout in 195 games. 
Canucks 7, Bruins 6 

Daryl Stanley ended a wild shootout by scoring his first goal of the season with 21 seconds left to give the Vancouver Canucks a 7-6 victory over the Boston Bruins. 
Flames 3, Flyers 2 
Joe Nieuwendyk had a goal and assist and Mike Vernon turned back 23 shots as the Calgary Flames withstood a third-period rally to defeat the Philadelphia Flyers 3-2. 
'The victory was the Flames' 1Oth straight over the Flyers in a string that started Dec. 11, 1986. 
Rangers 4, Pens 2 
Tomas Sandstrom scored the tie-breaking goal in the third period as the New York Rangers beat the Pittsburgh Penguins 4-2 in a game that featured Mario Lemieux's first goal of the season. 

Swim teams coast past MCC foes 
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 
From the first race of the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Meet on Saturday, it was obvious that the Notre Dame swim team was in a class by itself. 
The Irish dominated the meet at the Rolfs Aquatic Center, beating the other four teams in the conference by lopsided scores. In that first race, the 500-yard freestyle, the men's team captured the first eight places, while the women's team took the first five places. It was all Notre Dame from then on. 
"This meet was everything we expected it to be and a whole lot more," said Irish coach Tim Welsh. "Our speed, depth, and level of skill were higher than expected." 
The Irish, last year's MCC champions, looked like Olympic contenders compared to their competition. The women de­feated Evansville 150-50, while the men's team downed Butler 139-30. 
By beating both of these teams and the other two teams in the conference, St. Louis and Xavier, both the men's and women's teams collected four wins. 
Not a bad way to begin a sea­son. 
Notre Dame won all but seven events during the course of the day. Eight Irish swimmers won at least two races. 
Freshman Tanya Williams recorded four victories in indi­vidual events in her first colle­giate meet. Williams was just one of several freshmen who contributed to the Irish land­slide. 
"The freshmen had a wonder­ful meet," Welsh said. "They came of age today. There is a place for them in Notre Dame swimming, and thev came here today to claim it." 
Many of last year's stars also did well for the Irish. Becky Wood and Brain Rini each won two events, while Ed Veome and Jenny Kipp swept the diving competitions. Ed Broderick, 
Jim  Birmingham  and  Bill  
Jackoboice  also  won  at  least  
two events.  

But Welsh noted that the team as a whole performed well, not just as a group of in­dividuals. "If you look at the pack fin­
ishes, you can see that this was a program moving ahead, not just a superstar," said Welsh. "The team feels that and that is exciting." 
Welsh said that the Notre Dame victories were a result of intensive training over the past weeks, including a lot of condi­tioning mechanical work. 
"Technically, we were a lot stronger. All of our training 
had  encouraging  results,"  
Welsh said.  
And the Irish  are  expecting  

more hard work in the weeks ahead. Welsh stressed that the easy victories are not a reason to slack ofT. 
"We can't be sucked in by the lopsided scores," Welsh said. "You can't compare us to the field, you have to compare us to where we are now. As exciting as the times were for October, they won't be exciting in December. We have a lot to do. 
"The value of an early season meet is clear," Welsh continued. "I think the conference enjoyed the meet." 
The Irish will have a two­week break before their next meet, the Notre Dame Relays, Nov. 3 at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Accountancy Majors Merger Forum 

Coopers & Lybrand Deloitte & Touche Ernst &Young KMPG Peat Marwick 
will answer your questions concerning past & present mergers among CPA Firms 
TUESDAY, OCT.17 MONTGOMERY THEATRE· LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER PIZZA RECEPTION TO FOLLOW 
..... 


-
Monday, October 16, 1989 The Observer page 15 

COMICS 

~~mm
·.·.·.·. 
r~~~~~
.·.·.·.· 

IS COMING!! 
Tickets will be on sale starting 

!11ti1r 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 
:~:i:~: 
at the JACC Gate 1 0 
!llllll:;a..._~ _B_u_y_yo_u_r_s_N_O_W_!_!!_______,. 
CAMPUS EVENTS 
7 p.m. Film, "King of Comedy,"Directed by Martin Scorsese. Annenberg Auditorium. Admission $2. 
7 p.m. Film, "La Strada," by Felini. Room 207, Architec­ture Building. Admission $1. 
7 p.m. London and Rome Summer Program Meeting. Carroll Auditorium. 
7:30 p.m. Faculty Senate Meeting,. Room 202 CCE. 
9 p.m. Film, "Shoot the Piano Player," Annenberg Audi­torium. Admission $2. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
2:30 p.m. "Education for Peace," Haim Gordon. Room 105 Law School. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute, Institute for International Peace Studies and Government and International Studies. 
4 p.m. "Perestroika: What Next for NATO and Arms Control-and for Russia?", Rt. Hon. Patrick Duffy, MP, Labor member of both the European and British Par­liaments; President, North Atlantic Assembly. Room 120, Law School. Sponsored by Institute for International 
Peace Studies. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame menu 
BBQ Pork Chops Baked Chicken Italian Beef Sandwich 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 "Eadie--a Lady"
1 Partner of comes 30 Cardplayers'5 "The Red" 
kitty 9 "Let-eat 
33 Lunkheads cake" 34 A deadly sin 13 Give forth 36 Jackie's second 
15 Words to 37 Phrase tor aNanette 
narrow miss 16 Kind of chest 
41 Air, in 17 Distort a report compounds 
18 Smirch 
42 Partner of 19 One of five penates bodies of water 43 Historical fact 20 Hard problem 44"[imein LA 23 Rams' mates 45 Dutch city 24 Fish delicacy 46 Partner of sticks 25 State 48 Friend, in France 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


49 Woodwind 51 Hardly ever 590cho-, 
Jamaican port 60 Song for Sutherland 61 WW I battle scene 62 Within Comb. 
form 63 Roscoes 64 Photocopies 65 Come out slowly 66 In addition 67 Opening for 
coins 
DOWN 
1 Central idea 2 Formerly Christiania 3 He sold his birthright 
4 "... sweetest songs yet remain to be 
--"·Whitman 5 Follow quickly 6 Turnips, e.g. 7 Monogram pt. a Garden of the 
Gods site 9 Partner of here 1 o Sixty minutes, in Spain 11 Of grand proportions 12 Unassuming 
48 Fabulist 49 R.I.P notices 50 Pleasure-weary 51 Mirie products 52 Mets or Cubs 53 Morse, tor one 54 Soviet sea 55 Gym gear 56 Type of test 57 Aware of 58 Snug place 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
VI-I 0~, CAL'liN T\-\1:: A.S At-\ ECTOTI-\t:RM, \.\IS 
Rt.\'1\Lt. IS \N iRO\IBLE ~ I?IJD'{ Rt.l\'CS ON 1\\E 'EN~\RO!'-Il-I£NT TD 'NI>.Rl"'l OR <:rol \15 \t.MP£~1\iRt.. 
\ 

WILBUR AND WENDEL 
BILl WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE '.:JARY L ARSON 
NOW T\.\~1 \IS COLDER L8\~£ TI-\E rnER!I\OSTAT OJTSIDI:, Ct-.L'l\NS BOD'{ 
P..LONE, t>.t-~D P\.J\ ON f>.. TH\~RAT\IRE. F~I.LS A\-\D 
SW8\"'I"'C:.R If= '{OV'RE. COLD. l-It. '3t.C<Jtl.£.'5 '51..\lG;ISl-\.' 1\HL \dJ \~10 TORI'OR II= HE CNolT FINO A'tJP..Rtl\ 
PLt-.C£ it) LIE .' 

JAY HOSLER 


14 The clear sky 21 A part of Can. 22 Word used in 
trig. 25 Org. for Cahn, Kahn et al. 26 Entertainer 
Soupy 27 Big spender 28 Sigmoid letter 29 Triumphs 30 Heathen 
31 Use a soapbox 32 Radials 34 Unadulterated 35 Hwy. 38 Varnish 
ingredient 39 Banter 40 Half a Broadway 
title 46 Old French coin 47 Is in abundance 

.--------------------------------------------------------------­
Sports
page 16 

Monday, October 16, 1989 
Rocket launching puts stall on Air Force attack 
Big plays key Notre Dame in battle of unbeaten teams 
By GREG GUFFEY did it with big, explosive plays. 
Assistant Sports Editor Three of Notre Dame's five 
touchdowns came on plays of 

COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. -24 yards or more. The remain­
The question finally was ing two touchdowns were set 
answered here Saturday night up by plays of 20 or more 
at Falcon Stadium. yards. 
Air Force is good, but not While the Irish offense was good enough. turning in the big plays, the 
A bigger and more talented Notre Dame defense was sti­
Notre Dame team delivered fling the potent Air Force wish­
that message via a 41-27 vic­bone attack. The Irish held the 
tory over the Falcons before a Falcons to 168 rushing yards, 
record crowd of 53, 533. 281 yards below their season 
average of 449. 

In a game of big plays, the Notre Dame rushed for 332 Irish turned in the bigger ones yards, much better than its 241 to move to 6-0. It was the 18th average. Ricky Watters and consecutive win for Notre Raghib Ismail, normally the Dame and ended Air Force's Irish flanker, shared duties at dream of an unbeaten season tailback. They gained a com­and a possible national title. bined 188 yards while keeping a 
"Our team is very hurt and tired Air Force defense off disappointed," Air Force coach guard. Fisher DeBerry said. "We felt the stage was set for us to win, "I thought we did a good job but we didn't play well enough with their running game," Holtz to beat the national champions. said, "and I didn't know we I'm disappointed with the out­could run with the success we cpme, but proud of the effort." did. I also didn't expect them to 
throw the ball as well as they 

Said Notre Dame coach Lou did." lloltz, "We played ball-control football and our offense did Air Force quarterback and what it had to. I thought it was Heisman Trophy candidate Dee a game that would be high Dowis gained just 39 yards on scoring and I didn't know if we the ground. Trailing early, could score a lot of points." Dowis was forced to the air, 
The Irish not only scored a 
see FALCONS I page 13

season-high 41 points, but they
--'f": 
I Me Ulserver I Steve Moskop 

Tony Rice gets a few of the 71 rushing yards he picked up against Air Force. Rice also completed 9-of-13 passes for 123 yards. 
Bashed 

Athletics take 2-0 Series lead on Giants, page 11 
No scoring 

The N D soccer team ties Akron 0-0, page 14 
Gretzky 

The NHL career scoring mark is broken, page 14 
Irish volleyball beats Illinois St., falls to Texas 
By GREG SCHECKENBACH senior captain Kathy service aees sparked the Irish where Notre Dame was out­Sports Writer Cunningham worried. comeback. classed by the defending na­"We know we can win these tional champions. 
The Notre Dame volleyball games," stated Cunningham. After a third game defeat, Although the score does not team split a pair of matches "We just seem to be playing Notre Dame changed its ways indicate a close game, Notre this weekend at the Joyce ACC, down to the level of the other and never looked back, winning Dame actually outplayed the winning a rollercoaster match teams." the fourth and fifth games with Longhorns in spurts. from Illinois State and getting In the first game of Friday's relative ease. Cunningham and "They gave us all we could swept by defending national match, Notre Dame dominated Turner led the Irish charge in handle," said Texas coach Mick champion Texas. the senior-laden Redbirds. those games. Haley. "They are not a bad 
The Irish, 6-10, defeated Cunningham and junior Tracy team by any means. Only a lack Illinois State 15-6, 15-17, 16-Shelton owned the net with nu­Turner led Notre Dame with of experience is holding them 14, 15-7, 15-12 and fell to the merous kills and blocks. On the 24 kills and 17 digs. Middle back." powerful Longhorns 15-8, 15-night, Shelton ended up with 17 blocker Jessica Fiebelkorn Once again, Cunningham ex­13, 15-10 on Saturday. kills and 14 digs, while racked up an impressive 19 celled for the Irish, racking up 
Notre Dame concludes its Cunningham compiled 14 kills kills along with nine total a team leading 16 kills and a homestand Monday with a and nine block assists. blocks. Senior setter Taryn .480 hitting percentage. match against Penn at 7:30 The second game was exactly Collins, who has performed Junior Colleen Wagner took 
p.m. in the Joyce ACC. the opposite as Illinois State outstandingly of late, selected advantage of an extra amount 
Against Illinois State on jumped out to an 8-2 lead be­her hitters well and ended up of playing time to record seven Friday night, the Irish displayed fore the Irish finally got on with 69 assists kills and a team-high 10 digs. an erratic style that has been track, cutting the lead down to Another bright spot for the all too consistent this season. 10-9. The story was not as pretty It's that kind of play which has Freshman Alicia Turner's two for the Irish on Saturday night, 
see IRISH I page 14 

COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. -It was sup­-Notre Dame's Rocket Ismail upstaged the posed to be a battle between two quarter­Dowis-Hice showdown with a lleisman-like 
performance of his own. lie rushed for 92backs for the early bragging rights to the yards, caught three passes for 25 yards and
Heisman Trophy. It was supposed to be Air Force quarter­
returned one punt 56 yards for a touchdown back Dee Dowis, potential aviator, defender 
to help the Irish to a 41-27 victory over Air of the Stars and Stripes, representative and 
Force Saturday night in Falcon Stadium. inspiration to overachieving short people While everyone awaited the Dowis-Hice duel across the nation. A victory by Dowis would 
which never materialized, Ismail continued to turn heads with his big plays, making Heisman come off the lips of more than oneGreg 
observer. 
By no means did Hice have a bad game. lieGuffey rushed 14 times for 71 yards and completed 9-of-13 passes for 123 yards and one touch­
Assistant Sports Editor 
down. Rice, the leader and catalyst of this 6­0 Irish team, may even be the front-runner,have meant a victory for small over big, for 
given the falls of Dowis and llouston's Andre 
David over Goliath. 
Ware {whose team lost Saturday to Texas It was supposed to be Notre Dame quar­
A&M).terback Tony Rice, five-star field general, But what about Ismail? pre-season cover boy, player made in· the 
"I think it would be between Tony and mold of Bertelli, Lujack, Hornung and Rocket," said Notre Dame tailback RickyHuarte. A victory by Rice would have meant Watters when asked to pick a lleisman win­
eliminating another pretender in the Heisman ner. "Those would be my first two picks." 
race. 

During the pre-game show, Air Force dis-
The scene was set, save a lanky sophomore 
see ISMAIL I page 12

flanker, tailback, kickoff and punt returner. 


