

Gunman killed women because they 'spoiled his life' 
VOL. XXIII NO. 47U5' THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
SP The Observer/Trey Reymond 
It"s beginning to look a lot like Christmas, and the Alumni hall chapel is just one of many places on campus decorated for the holiday sea son. Many dorms on campus prepare for Christmas with door decorating contests, Secret Santa gift exchanges and holiday parties. 
MONTREAL (AP) -The gunman who ranged through the University of Montreal's engineering school and killed 14 women carried a suidde let­ter complaining that women had spoiled his life and he was seeking revenge. police said Thursday. 
The young killer -identified Thursday night as Marc Lapin -also wounded nine women and four men before killing himself Wednesday in the worst mass murder in Canadian his­tory. 
As he roamed through the modern. six-story engineering building firing a rifle. Lapin ranted. "I want the women!" and "You're all a bunch of feminists! I hate feminists!" witnesses told police. 
Escort service to debut in January 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Assistant News Editor 
The student security escort service will get underway early next semester and will employ 60-70 student workers. 
"The project has received funding from the University," according to Gina Mahony. chair of the student security escort service. 
There will be a meeting Mon­day for all those interested in applying to be a student escort. 
Mahony said that the service needs 60-70 students, both male and female. The position will probably be a paid one, however. the funding for the escort service has yet to go through the budget process, said Student Body President Matt Breslin. 
The service will run Sunday through Thursday evenings >even p.m. to one a.m.. accord­ing to Mahony. Escorts will op­erate out of the Information Desk on the first loor of LaFortune Student Cen, r. 
The student escort service will have its own telephone line and escorts will communicate to a dispatcher through two­way radios which Notre Dame Security will be able to monitor, said Mahony. Escorts will al­ways travel in pairs. 
"Student Affairs, Business Affairs and Security have all been extremely helpful," Ma­hony said. 
Breslin said the idea for the escort service was Mahony's, who is now a member of Stu­dent Government's cabinet. He said seniors Michele Feick, Jim Schilder and Patrick Smith have all been active in getting the escort service organized. 
The service will be run by Student Government, however Breslin said he believes that someday the service might op­erate independently. Student Government will be responsible for the hiring of employees and publicizing the service. 
"We're looking for the sup­port of the hall staff in publicizing the service," said Breslin. "We need the rectors, 
One of the wounded remained in critical but stable condition Thursday. The rest were out of danger. 
Little was known of the killer's background, but the Canadian Broadcasting Corp. said police confirmed his iden­tity through his mother and quoted detective Sgt. Robert Fuller as giving the man's name as Marc Lapin. 
In his letter, Lapin said he was committing a "political act" in killing the women be­cause "feminists had always ruined my life." police reported. 
Senior police investigator Jacques Duscheneau told a news conference Lapin used a .223-caliber Sturm Ruger semi­automatic assault rifle. 
Lapin also carried a hunting knife and sheath, two boxes of bullets and a 30-bullet clip. 

He was described as being about 5-foot-9 inches, weighing 
resident assistants and security monitors to instill the idea (of the service) in the minds of stu­dents." 
He said that the support of Student Affairs and Security is very important to keep the ser­vice running in a consistent manner from year to year, as the composition Student Gov­ernment is constantly changing. 
"We haven't hit any brick walls," said Breslin. "Everyone has been very supportive of the service." 
Applications for student escorts will be available at the meeting as well as from the student government secretary on the second floor of LaFor­tune Student Center from De­cember 11-15. 
Interested students must submit applications by Decem­ber 21. Decisions will be made early next semest:er and all hired escorts must attend a training session. 
The informational meeting will take place Monday 8 p.m., Sorin Room, LaFortune. 
about 160 pounds, with brown hair and blue eyes. 
Duscheneau said the rifle "is the type of weapon you can buy for hunting reasons" in Canada with proper certification. 
Andre Tessier, director of op­erations of the Montreal police, told reporters Lapin had ob­tained a permit for the rifle. 
Canada's gun control laws are generally stricter than those in the United States. 
Duscheneau said "'it was quite clear" that a three-page handwritten letter signed "Marc" and found on Lapin's body was a suicide note. He said it specified Dec. 6 as the date for Lapin's death. 
He said it contained the names of 15 women that were believed taken from a newspa-
A look at what's in store for U.S., ND/SMC in the '90s 
Special to The Observer 
Advances in science and technology promise to make the 10 years that begin this Jan. 1 a decade of unparal­leled accomplishment. But damage to the atmosphere, accumulation of solid wastes. the spread of AIDS and other threats also make the 1990s a decade of po­tential peril. 
"By many measures, time is running out," warns Washington's Worldwatch Institute. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will also undergo significant change over the next decade, in physical lay­out, student body and cur­ricula. 
In a series of articles next week, The Observer and The Associated Press will exam­ine the progress and the challenges expected in the coming decade in such areas 
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1989 
Military gets budget limits 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Bush has told Defense Secretary Dick Cheney the Pentagon can spend "a little more than $292 billion" during the next fiscal year, a belt-tightening figure that means military spending won't keep pace with inflation, Pentagon sources said Thursday. 
"It's going to be a net reduction in real growth," meaning an increase in actual spending of less than the ex­pected inflation rate of 4.1 percent, said the source, who spoke on condition he not be identified by name. 
The budget debate for 1991 comes amid the Pentagon's attempts to grap­ple with restraints over the long term in light of eased tensions abroad and bud­get-deficit problems at home. 
Cheney has ordered the service chiefs to come up with plans that could allow up to $180 billion to be trimmed from future budgets in the years from 1992 to 1994. 
Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams said Cheney received a figure 
see BUDGET I page 5 
per. but declined to elaborate except to say not all were public figures. 
Duscheneau told reporters the letter said Lapin was seek­ing revenge on women. 
"He mentioned in the letter that he did that because of po­litical reasons. He said femi­nists kind of spoiled his life and he hasn't been happy in life for the last seven years," the offi­cer said. 
"I think he blamed women in general, saying that if his life was ruined it was mainly be­cause of women," Duchesneau told reporters. 
The letter also mentioned former army Cpl. Denis Lortie, who was sentenced to life im­
see SHOOTINGS I page 6 

as the environment, medicine, space exploration, transportation, computer technology and urban devel­opment, as well as change likely to occur closer to home, on the campuses of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
The articles, written by AP specialists, will discuss: the "greenhouse effect" and other atmospheric problems; cleaning up solid wastes in the next decade; the U.S. en­ergy picture; prospects for progress against heart dis­ease and cancer; the future of artificial and transplanted 
see THE '90s I page 4 page 2 


INSIDE COLUMN 
DART makes scheduling more difficult 
DAirr means Direct Access Hegistering by --------­Telephone. I prefer to call it Direct Access to Huining your Transcript. 
was Stephanie Snyder 
At first 
discover Accent copy editorrelieved to 
that there was no longer a need to sleep on the cold, hard noors of O'Shag, in line behind 200 other students, praying to --------­get into the philosophy course I wanted. Fifteen-minutes-on-the-phone-and-you're­done-registering sounded great. 
But then I began to hear the gripes. Classes were filling quickly. I thought that, as a junior, I'd be okay. But even many second semester seniors couldn't get into some courses. 
When I first called DAHT, armed with my PIN and two alternate English courses, I didn't think I might not get into them. 
After going through the entire list of English courses, I finally got into one class. The rest were either full or conflicted with the other courses I already had. So I thought I'd drop and add courses. 
As I picked up the phone again, I remembered a nightmarish but true story of a student who went to the Registrar's office to drop a class and add another that he heard had one more space. But by the time the office dropped his original course and called up the new one, that space had been filled. The student wasn't too bothered and he resolved to stay with his first choice. When the original was called up, his old space was gone! 
I decided I wasn't going risk losing the two classes that I'd gotten earlier that day. I called each department to plead for help. To my dismay, I discovered that not even the department heads could help me. They had no control over the DAHT process. I even tried calling a professor in hopes that he could add me to his roster. If the professors, departments and the Hegistrar can't control DART, who can? 
I was told to continue "calling DAHT back every night" in case somebody dropped out of the courses I wanted. That meant time, and a miracle. The alternative was waiting until the DAHT process was over to work out my schedule. This meant even more timn. 
I realize the Administration was trying to help the students and faculty by replacing the chaotic, time-consuming checkmarking system with a more advanced. organized registering system. But by creating something that it has no direct control of­something too systemized to allow for the inevitable exceptions to the rules -it made registering doubly chaotic and time­consuming. 
Maybe the system's wrinkles will smooth 
out. But whm1 fall pre-registration begins I 
will rather sit on a cold noor and wait for a 
Glass than listen to a monotone repeat, 
"Class #3-4-5-2 is closed .... I'm sorry, your 
time is up. Goodbye." 

The.Observer 
P0. Box 0 Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Friday's Staff 
Production News Joe Zadrozny Ad Design Kelley Tuthill Cristina Oritz Amy Eckert Monica Yant Val Palette 
Viewpoint Meg Callahan 
Accent Kim Skiles Anita Covelli Robyn Simmons Colleen Stepan Jeanne Naylor Liz Havel Brian Grunert Systems Sports 
Chris Zaback Molly Mahoney Michael Gargiulo 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) IS published Monday through Friday except dunng exam and vacat1on periods The Observer IS a member of the Assoc1ated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
The Observer Friday, December 8, 1989 
WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Friday, December 8. 
Lines show high temperatures. 30 20 
FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY
r----::--------------------------©_1_9_B9_A_c_c_u_-w_e_a_th_e..:.r,_ln__,c. day. High 30 to 35. 
Pressure 
' 
X
® © ~ ~ rn EZ3 rzJ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
A candlelight vigil presented by Hight to Life will begin at 6 p.m. tonight on the fieldhouse mall. 
Shenanigans Christmas concert is tonight at 7 
p.m. in Washington Hall. Free tickets are available at the door. 
WORLD 
Armenia marked the first anniversary of the earthquake that killed 25,000 of its people, stopping the town clock forever at 11:41 Thursday, the minute the 1988 disaster struck. The earthquake measuring 6. 9 on the Richter scale left 20,000 missing and destroyed the homes of 500,000 more. After the quake rocked Armenia, the Soviet Union opened its borders to foreign assistance for the first time, accepting the help of thousands of ex­perts, including rescue teams, doctors and construction specialists. 
NATIONAL 
A vaccine for AIDS may be on the horizon. accord­ing to an expert who says a new vaccine against a virus that causes AIDS in monkeys "is the most significant ad­vance in the vaccinn field since we started the AIDS vac­cine program." Dr. Wayne Kol'f, chief of AIDS vaccine re­search at the National Institutes of llealth, said Thursday the discovery, "has dispelled any doubts about our ever being able to create a vaccine against HIV (the virus that causes AIDS in humans)." 
A doctor accused of soliciting college students to have sex with his wife was found dead Thursday in what was apparently a suicide, police said. Hodney Thorp Wood, 60, and his wife, Naney Steffen Wood, 44, were ar­rested in September after allegedly conducting a phony research project at the University of Oregon in which "evaluating the sexual potential of the mature female" in­volved paying male students for taking part in researeh sessions, police said. 
MARKET UPDATEINDIANA 

Closings for December 7. 1989 

A teen court in LaPorte County. has bm~ome a new tool to deal with an old problem -juvenile 
Volume in shares

crime. A plea of guilty is required for the pro­_98 Million gram, which gives an accused juvenile an oppor­161 tunity to tell his or her side of the story in the presence of other teen-agers playing the roles of prosecutor, defense attorney and jurors, under NYSE Index
the supervision of an adult judge. 
192.38 {} 0.44 S&P Composite _n_ 347.59 v 0.96 The Taylor University professor who Dow Jones Industrials was stranded by lighting in the Philippines is ex­2720.78 {}15.99 pected to return to Indiana today. a university 
Precious Metals

spokesman said. Jessica Housselow, a communi­cations professor, left the Philippines on Wednes­Gold {t $5.10 to $410.00 I oz. day. Rousselow had been in Manila on holiday 
Silver{( 7.'2.¢ to $5.623/ oz.
during the coup attempt against Philippine Presi­
LSo-u-rc-e:-A,.,P:-------------' Chapman.
dent Corazon Aquino. 
The Isis Gallery presents "New Faces," a collection of work from Notre Dame graduaLP students, opening to­day from 5 to 7 p.m. 
Advent lessons and carols by ttw Notre Damn Li­turgical Choir and Brass will be held Sunday at 7::m p.m. in Moreau Seminary Chapd. 
Nicaragua's government has embarked on "a clear pattern of abuses" designed to intimidate political activists and voters before l;ebruary's national nlections, said a senior Stat1~ Department official Thursday. In Nicaragua. meanwhile, President Daniel Ortega accused the Bush administration of sabotaging a meeting of fiVP Central American president~ to be lwld Sunday and Mon­day in San Jose, Costa Hica. 
Nintendo of America, Inc. may face federal inves­tigation for monopolizing the homP video ganw industry. said the chairman of a llouse antitrust panni Thursday. Hnp. Dennis Eckart asked the Justice Departnwnt to in­vHstigate Nintendo on charges that tlw result of the man­ufacturer's high-power marketing practices is that only games licensed or sold by Nintendo can be played on tlw Nintendo players, inflating tlw costs of games to con­sumers by an estimated 20 percent to 30 pPrcent. 
Debris from the Three Mile Island nuclear plant will be routnd to an Idaho laboratory for examination via a H)-state journey, the Transportation Department has concluded. The Erwrgy Department is 3 1/2 years into a program to haul 300,000 pounds of damaged. radioactiw fuel by train from the crippled TMI Unit 2 rnactor in Mid­dletown, Pa., to an Idaho federal laboratqry 2,400 miles 
away. 
Yesterday's high: 29 Yesterday's low: 20 National high: 87 
(Borrego Springs, Calif.) National low: -15 (Waroad, Minn.) 
Forecast: 
Mostly cloudy and cold today. High in the middle 20s. Partly cloudy tonight. Low 15 to 20. In­creasing clouds Satur-
ALMANAC 
On December 8: 
e In 1940: Four hundred Ger­man bombers raid London. 
e In 1941: Congress deelarns war on Japan. 
e In 1949: Chinese National­ists move capital to Taipei, 
Formosa. 
e In 1978: Golda Meir dies of leukemia. 
e In 1980: John Lennon shot and killed outside his New York apartment by Mark David 

Nun urges women to fight for sexual equality in the Church 
Friday, December 8, 1989 
The Observer page 3 

By PAUL PEARSON News Writer 
Women need to fight for more equality in the Catholic Church, Sister Theresa Kane said in a videotape presented at the Center for Social Concerns Thursday. 
The videotape, sponsored by the Committee on Women's Or­dination, was recorded last Oc­tober on the 1Oth anniversary of Kane's address to Pope John Paul II about the plight of women in the Church. 
In the tape, Kane said that women need to feel " ... not only an awareness for the wholeness of life, but an awareness for the holiness of life." 
When efforts to reach that awareness arc blocked, Kane said, "We need to cry out with courage and with rage. We are called to be artisans and au­thors of our own destiny," Kane said. 
Kane laid out three goals for women in the Church. The first is to " ... be imbued with an awareness for the necessity of equality in Christian life." 
While women remain unequal in the Church, Kane said, " ... we do indeed continue forms of idolatry." 
Secondly, Kane called for Catholic women, who are " ... spiritually and psychologi­cally homeless in the Church," to cry out for an end to home­lessness. 
Thirdly, Kane called for the changing of God's image in people's daily lives. "Patriarchy...has been with us for over 5,000 years .... We view God exclusively as male and as Father," she said. 
To sum up, Kane called on all Catholics to further the cause of equality in the Church. "Let's not only wait for it. Let's work for its realization." 
After the presentation, the 
By PATRICK HEALY News Writer 
.Jawanza Kunjufu, president of African American Images, spoke on the problems facing blacks in America in a Year of the Family lecture. 
Lecturing on "The Black Family" to a large and enthusi­astic audience, Kunjufu cited the three most pressing prob­lems facing blacks as self-es­teem. economics, and drugs. 
On the topic of black self-es­teem, Kunjufu said that blacks do not understand who they are and some don't even care. He said that the black value system is in conflict with its race be­cause blacks are taught history that is focused on Western cul­ture, are told that beauty con­sists of light skin. long hair, and blue eyes, and have been told who they are by others since the time of slavery. 
lie said that the first humans were black. as were Jesus and King David, and offered several examples to show that many black achievements are over­looked in teaching history . 
At one point in the lecture, Kunjufu asked a mostly black audience if they could name many prominent blacks in science, literature, and educa­tion, as compared to those in sports, television, and music­few could. 
Speaking on self-esteem, Kunjufu stated that "racism is a sign of insecurity, not inferi­ority." He said that whites "know more about you {blacks}, than you know about yourself," and that learning about racism and black history would help blacks to deal with this problem. 
Kunjufu accused the media of focusing on blacks when dis­cussing poverty. He noted that almost two-thirds of the poor are white and that a sizable percentage of blacks make over $40.000 a year. He said audience participated in a brief discussion of what has hap­pened since the address to Pope John Paul II. One participant stated that since then, "there has never been a reply." 

Another participant defended women's current place in the Church. On the subject of the ordination of women, she said, "Being ordained is not going to matter when you're doing priestly things." 
Another participant asked about the Committee's tactics. "If you want to speak to the Church, why are you only talk­ing to the University?" he asked. 
To conclude the evening, the audience conducted a brief prayer service where they called the people to " ... speak our truth in love without vengeance 
The Observer/Amy lowery 

or hostility. The vision is in­
Pretty as a picture
scribed on the tablets of our hearts, and it will not go 
Saint Mary's senior Mary Firth prepares her work for the Senior 
Art Exhibit at Moreau Hall, December 8-15. away." 

Speaker praises blacks as the 'world's strongest people' 
that economically blacks "are not monolithic" and shouldn't be put in the same group of which the media speaks. 

A major theme of the lecture was that blacks who are suc­cessful should not forget the others less fortunate. He said that black values had changed from "we to I", from coopera­tion to competition, and from interior feelings to exterior ap­pearances. He stated that those who have done should give thanks to God, good teachers and caring parents. 
Kunjufu asked the audience if they could have been as suc­cessful if they had been born into a less fortunate environ­ment. He told them to give back some of the success they have had to those in need. 
Speaking on drugs, Kunjufu criticized Reagan and Bush for cutting the Coast Guard's bud­get. He said they are afraid to cut out a $150 billion dollar drug industry from which, he .Jelieves, banks receive funds. He added that 76 percent of drug users are white. 

He presented many sugges­tions for solving the drug prob­lem, such as focusing on the poor, self-esteem, halting sales of drug paraphernalia, and in­creasing the number of treat­ment centers. 
Kunjufu proposed giving the money from drug busts to the community, stating that the "police are in on the take" from these busts. He said that com­munities must organize them­selves as well as drug dealers do. 
Kunjufu praised blacks as the "world's strongest people" be­cause they survived their trans­fer from Africa to America, slavery and the depression. However, he says that "America believes they have us" in re­gards to AIDS, drugs, teenage pregnancy and unemployment. 
He also stated that "America would rather have {blacks] on 
Week-end Liturgical Schedule at Stepan 
Sat., Eucharist, 5 PM at Stepan Center. Rev. Peter Rocca, Dec. 9 C.S. C. presider. Notre Dame Women's Choir. 
Sun., Eucharist 10 AM at Stepan Center. Rev. Peter Rocca, Dec. 10 C.S.C., presider. Notre Dame Liturgical Choir, Notre Dame Handbells. 
Eucharist 11 :45AM at Stepan Center. Rev. Stephen Newton, C.S.C. presider. Notre Dame Folk Choir. 
FAMILY SKATE NIGHT 
5:30 -7:45 PM JACC ICE RINK 
A VISIT FROM SANTA GAMES REFRESHMENTS 

FUN FOR THE WHOLE FAMILY 
welfare than independent." He noted it would be a lot more economical to train welfare re­cipients that to pay them throughout their lifetime. 
The speaker also criticized "the design purpose of schools" which he said was to either "destroy" blacks or to "make them white," by trying to make them embrace white values. 
Kunjufu offered many solu­tions to the problems he pre­sented in his lecture. He said blacks must study history, un­derstand racism and become familiar with God. He also pro­posed effective time manage­ment, knowledge of economics and politics, and good diet and exercise. 
On a community level, Kun­jufu stressed programs con­cerned with culture awareness, tutorials, rites of passage, ju­nior businesses and role mod­els. 

If)W're ~todrinkarrl dme at least let tre rest <i lfi kiD.\( Reador'olligoll 


FREE SKATE RENTALS WHILE THEY LAST 
-----·-----------~-----------~ 
Friday, December 8, 1989
page 4 The Observer 


Former Boeing Co. exec. convicted on 39 counts 

ALEXANDHIA, Va. lAP) -A federal court jury Thursday eonvkted a formnr Boeing Co. marketing nxncutive on :~9 counts arising from his possession of secret l'entagon budget documents. 
The 12-member jury in U.S. District Court deliberated about two hours be­fore returning the verdiets against Hiehard Lee Filwlnr. who worked for Boeing from 197H until he was fired in 19H6 after an investigation was b11gun. 
Fowler <:ould be sentenced to 310 years in prison and firwd $225,000 if the maximum penalties are ifllposed. The eounl'i with whkh he was charged inducted eonspiraey, mail fraud and il­legal conveyance of dassified docu­m11nl'i. 
Boeing has pleaded guilty to receiving dassilied documents from Fowler and has agreed to pay lines of $5.2 million. In addition, the company's Washington­area office has been suspended from bidding on governnwnt contracts, a largely symbolk punishment. 
Fowler raced the jury as thl1 Vl1rdiet was read, occasionally dosing his eyes while members of his family cried in thn bat:kground. 
Asked later whether hn had been made a scapegoat for othnrs he said: "I would rather not comment on that. I 

The'90s 
continued from page 1 
organs; expected advances in mass transportation; and the automobiles of the '90s. 
Associated Press contributed to this story. 
WE"D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSfllUfiON OF THE UNITED STATES. 
THE OONSfllUfiON 'Ill<" '""'rds we live bs 
I ~' ' ' ..... \ 
.1\ .... l 

mean you can draw your own conclu­sions." Fowl11r. 64, also said he considered Boeing "thn best employer I ever had." 
Fowler's attorneys said they would appeal the verdict and sentencing was set for Jan. 12. lie will remain free on bond. 
"This ease, in my view, puts everyone in the defense contracting industry on notic11 that theft, conversion and con­veyance of dassified documents will not be tolerated," said U.S. Attorney llenry Hudson. 
Hudson said investigations will con­tinue into the trafficking of classified Pentagon documents. 
John Bray, Fowler's attorney, said he was disappointed and the "first day pa­rade of brass was no help." A string of generals testified the first day of the trial. 
Bray said the verdict "certainly ... has a signal in it. But this ease isn't over." 
In testimony this week, employees of several def11nse contractors said they were part of a nine-company network hose Washington representatives traded Pentagon budget documents in the late 1970s and early 1980s. 
AP Photo

Driver dies in bombing 
A bombing in downtown Bogata Wednesday demolished this car, killing the driver. More than 80 cars were damaged or destroyed by the blast. 

The Main Laundromat 

1518 North Main Street Mishawaka 


259-6322 
Hours: 7:30a.m.· 9:00p.m. -7 days a week 
WASHER.§ ONlY 85¢ 
Tuesday: FREE Tide in every wash 
Wednesday: Drop-off · 40¢ per pound 
Thursday: Tanning · $3.00 per session 
Pick-up. wash. dry. fold. deliver SAME DAY SERVICE 
STEAKS 

100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA

PRIME RIB 

Featuring Friday night seafood buffet SEAFOOD and Sunday brunch 219-259-9925 

SORRY, CORRECTION 
MIAMI AIRPORT PHONE NUMBER WAS INCORRECT 
············~····················· 
DELUXE ROOMS STILL AVAILABLE 
800-327-6087 


Registry Rally to the Orange Bowl 
December 26th, 1989 -January 4th, 1990 
3 Nights $430.00 5 Nights $645.00 Prices per person, double occupancy (Single occupancy rates available) 
Upgrade to deluxe room Special pool and beach activities 
Special in-room amenities each Complimentary tennis court evenmg times 
Bottle of wine with Complimentary use of our 
Manager's compliments complete health club 
during dinner in Lafite 
Complimentary beach cabana Courtesy airport pickup 
Supervised children's activities Chartered bus to Orange Bowl, then return to Naples Children under 18 stay free in 
parent's room Orange Bowl Brunch game day 
New Year's Eve ball featuring Box of "Gourmet Goodies" for the fabulous "Coasters" your game day dinner 


See your travel agent or calll-800-247-9810 






~ :IRe 

SEE OUR CORRECTED AD IN TODAV'S PAPER 
REGISI~ 
~ 

475 Seagate Drive, Naples, Florida 33940 

Friday, December 8, 1989 
The Observer 

ND receives human rights grant 

Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame Law School's Center for Civil and Human Rights has received a $280,000 grant from the Ford Foundation to establish a teaching and research program in international human rights law. 
"We are grateful to the Ford Foundation for this timely and important grant," said Univer­sity President Father Edward Malloy. "Because the problems of international human rights require our most disciplined and persistent efforts, Notre Dame intends to build on the Ford Foundation's participa­tion by seeking permanent en­dowment for the Center for Civil and Human Rights and by encouraging other institutes and academic departments to collaborate in its endeavors." 
According to Father William Lewers. professor of law and director of the Center. "As a Catholic university, Notre Dame has a traditional and solid commitment to human rights 

Budget 

continued from page 1 
Wednesday from the White !louse, but he declined to discuss it. 
The spokesman said the de­partment now must make its plans conform with the new figure, for the fiscal year be­ginning next Oct. 1, so they may be included in the formal pre­sentation of the president's which makes it a natural home for this sort of project." 
The new program, while based in the Law School, will cooperate with Notre Dame's Kellogg Institute for Interna­tional Affairs, the Institute for International Peace Studies, the Department of Government and International Studies, and other academic units of the University. 
A major component of the program will be its offer of a master of laws degree in international human rights for lawyers primarily, though not exclusively, from outside the United States. The program will also assist in developing a joint degree program in law and peace studies. 
During each academic year. the program will bring to Notre Dame visiting faculty members from other countries. In 1990­91, the principal visitor will be Igor Grazin, professor of con­stitutional law at Tartu Uni­versity in Soviet Estonia. Grazin 
is an elected member of the Supreme Soviet and a member of that body's newly formed 
He said Cheney is determined to send "a realistic budget" to Congress. 
Cheney himself has said he will not have his budget labeled "dead-on-arrival" because it contained unrealistic expecta­tions of increased spending. 
Under the last budget putout by the Reagan administration, projected military outlays for fiscal 1991 were estimated at $304.7 billion. 
In the budget for the present fiscal year, Pentagon appropri­committee on constitutional re­form. 

The policies and programs of the Center for Civil and Human Rights are developed with the assistance of an advisory coun­cil whose members are at pre­sent drawn form the Kellogg Institute, the Institute for In­ternational Peace Studies, the Department of Government and International Studies, the Uni­versity's administration and the Law School faculty. 
The Center for Civil and Hu­man Rights was established in 1973 with assistance from the Ford Foundation. Influenced by the work of Father Theodore Hesburgh, then president of Notre Dame and member of the 
U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, the Center at first con­centrated on civil rights in the United States. In recent years, its interests have expanded to include human rights issues both in this nation and abroad. 
Among its research projects have been immigration and naturalization law reform and proposals for amnesty for vio­lators of selective service laws during the Vietnam War. 

$286 billion. An increase to $292 billion would be 2.1 per­cent, though the $286 billion figure is not final. 
The administration is project­ing 1990 inflation will increase at an average rate of 4.1 per­cent. 
The president has not yet made a decision on a figure for budget authority for the Pen­tagon, a number that usually is derived first in the budget pro­cess, and includes funds for longer-term weapons buying,


DELUXE ROOMS NEAR ORANGE BOWL 


AND BEACHES JUST $99 
GROUP RATES 
AVAILABLE 

Rental Cars Available 



~lloi·Free 
800-327-6087 
Ralrvlllll-' be made direct 
INCLUDES: 
I 
Ride to and from airport 
I 
Deluxe Room-1 to 4persons 
I 
24hr Room Service 
I 
Cable TV Free HBO Ride to Game 
I 
Complimentary welcome drinks 

I Pool. restaurants and more 




1-4 PERSONS 
HOUSTON. (API -President Bush voiced strong no-strings support Thursday for Philip­pine President Corazon Aquino, but congressional leaders ex­pressed concern about the depth of opposition to her. 
During a speed1 at a political fund-raiser, the president de­partnd from his tnxt to praise Aquino. 
"Just last week demoeraey was challenged in the Philip­pines," Bush said. "And w.e stood with President Aquino and we eontinue to stand with her and with dPmoeraey now. We must not let the dnmoeratic process be overthrown by revo­lution and by military takeover." 
Earlier. press secretary Mar­lin Fitzwatt~r. traVI'Iing with the prnsidnnt on a thrce-statn trip to underline anti-drug efforts and boost Hepublican candi­dates. said thn administration also has cone1~rns about Aquino and certain of her govnrnment's polides. 
"But that does not diminish the fact that we support her 
page 6 The Observer Friday, December 8, 1989 
Bush voices support for President Aquino 
and her government and we hope they're successful. We support her government with­out reservations and do not put strings on that support," Fitzwater said. 
lie was asked about com­ments the day bnfore by a se­nior administration official suggesting that Aquino's politi­cal future was in doubt -and that she should be more atten­tive to eliminating sources of discontent in her country. 
"There are a lot of people who are willing to speculate to that effect in private. But, on the record we would not specu­late on that. She's a democrati­cally elected leader and we want her to succeed," Fitzwater told reporters. 
Leases on the two U.S. bases in the Philippines -Clark Air Base and the Subic Bay naval installation -expire in 1991. 
Before leaving Washington, Bush met at the White House with several congressional leaders who commented after­ward. 



examinations when the killer bunch of feminists. I hate fem­arrived at about 4:30 p.m. EST. inists."
Shootings 
Police said he first shot a "My friend, Nathalie, said, continued from page 1 woman in a second-floor corri­'No, it's not true. We're not 
dor, then entered a room on feminists.' He fired into the prisonment after killing three that floor where a class with group," Leclerc said. people and wounding 13 in about 50 male and 10 female Police said Lapin then went to 1984 with submachine-gun lire students was in session. the first floor where he killed in the QuebtlC legislature. Witnesses said he told the three women in a cafeteria, 
Copies of the letter were sent class to separate by sex and next entered a third-floor to a psychiatrist and a sent the men into the corridor classroom where he shot four graphologist for analysis. before opening lire, killing six women to death and then killed 
Duscheneau said Lapin identi­more women. himself. fied himself as a student but "It was just like Rambo. He The engineering school was did not speeify a school. He had at least two ammunition closed Thursday in mourning. also said Lapin wrote that he belts on his chest." said engi­As word spread of the mas­was refused for military induc­neering student RobNt Leclere, saere, family and friends of tion b11eause he "wasn't a social who was in the classroom. students gathered outside the person. Leclerc, 23, said the killer building and tried frantically to 
Police said 3 5 to 3 7 shots told the women, "You're all a lind out victims' names. 
were fired from the assault ri­
St. Nick's Bazaar 
St. Mary's College, Le Mans Hall Open daily this week, 10-5 
•decorated baskets •wreaths 
Come to booth #17 and 
for rht faces caH }OUT loo:al Red Cross. or Wfire, 

receive 10% discount with this ad.
AIDS 
+
American Red Cross t:l':: W!shington. DC 20006 





Seniors, 

Commencement Weekend 
is closer than you think. Let the Commencement Accommodations Committee (CCE) help ease your way into it. 
Notre Dame residence halls will be available to accommodate parents and friends of the students who will be graduating during the weekend of May 18-20. 
Non-graduating students must request and receive permission to remain on campus beyond May 12, 1990. 
The meal services, provided through our office, will include buffet lunch on Friday, box lunch and Graduation Dinner on Saturday, and a Sunday brunch. Information about tickets for these events will be in a brochure sent to your parents in late Februaury. 
Friday will feature ... Saturday will feature.. Sunday will feature ... Lawn Concert ROTC Commissioning Academic Procession into University Concert Band Pbi Beta Kappa Installation Commencement & Formal Buffet Dinner Academic Procession into Conferring of Degrees Grad School Reception Baccalaureate Mass MBA and Law School Graduation Dance Concert Diploma Ceremonies 
University ofNotre Dame Glee Club 


For more information, call us at 239 -7640 
A temporary morgue was set up in the building so parents could identify bodies. 
Pierre Leclair, head of public relations for Montreal police, arrived at the school to lind his daughter, Maryse, dead on the floor. 
Louis Courville, dean of the engineering school. spoke to reporters outside the school on Thursday. 
"What do I say to the par­ents," he said, his voicn break­ing with emotion. "They send us their daughters who are then killed." 
"I feel angry. I feel useless. I feel powerless." Montreal Mayor Jean Dore 
visited the site and told re­porters, with tears in his eyes, that his babysitter was one of the women killed. 
In Ottawa, Prime Minister Brian Mulroney expressed shock and sent condolences. 
Quebec Premier Hobert Bourassa told the legislature Thursday, "All of Quebec is in mourning." 
A male student laid a wreath of roses in the snow outside the engineering building Thursday morning. 
Thursday night, about 1;000 people walked to tlw school in stiff winds and freezing tem­
ttures to hold a randlnlight 
norial vigil. 


''THE GOLDEN DOME'' 
BY BCOTI' L. HENDRIE 
LIMITED EDITION COMMEMORATIVE REMARQUE The Limited Edition is a. 6-color lithograph. The Rema.rque of the footba.ll player 1B he.nd-dra.wn by the artist 1n pencil and colored pencil. PRICE $10000 
• 
To order call 1-800-526-7414 
GOLDEN DOME WITHOUT UMARQUE 960 1n Edition/50 artist proofs PRICE $4600 " Send check or VISA/MasterCard information to: HENDRIE DESIGN STUDIO • P.O. Box~ • Elkhart, IN 46816 Include your N&me, Adc1rell8, City, State, Zip Code .!e Phone, Credit C&rcl Number &e Expiration Date. 
•AU Chrtatmas orders must be pl&oed. by n-mber lith, l9S9. Prtoe 1nolud.ea sh1pp1ng &nd. h&ndll.ng. Inc11ana resldenta mu.t ad.d. Ind.lan& 6% sales tax. 
Friday, December 8, 1989 The Observer page 7 


Miami policeman found guilty of manslaughter 
MIAMI (APl -A Hispanic policeman was found guilty of manslaughter Thursday in the deaths of two black men, and black leaders praised the verdict as a just response to the shooting that set off three days of racial violence. 
Miami Officer William Lozano, 31, showed no emo­tion when he heard the ver­dict in the Jan. 16 deaths of motorcyclist Clement Lloyd, 23, and passenger Allan Blanchard, 24. The two counts carry a total maxi­mum sentence of 45 years. 
Circuit Judge Joseph Farina deferred adjudication on the jury's findings, an administrative formality to allow a pre-sentencing in­vestigation. He ordered ev­eryone involved to return to court Jan. 24. Lozano re­mained free on $10,000 bond and had to surrender his passport. 
The televised verdict by the six-member, multi-ethnic jury brought relief to an in· ner-city black community that feared the trial would spark another round of ra­cial unrest. 
"It just shows that our system works if people will give it a chance to work and that there are other ways of impacting the system than through violence," said Willie Sims, a black commu­nity leader who is a member of Dade County's community relations board. 
Miami has been racked by racial unrest four times this decade, including riots in 1980 and 1984 sparked by acquittals of police charged in the deaths of blacks. 

**** 
-AHERS 
720 W. EDISON, MISHAWAKA Between Hickory and Grape 255·2001 

•lxperlenctd Drtp·OII lauadry ltmCI I Frn Sl111111 *AIIIA.III 11 OilY 11 all 711111•7 I.II.·M..alt-1 
*Prolmloaal Dry Clnalat Smlct •llobld PIRlat lol • No S•oklat Aru *lnlhtr I Suede hrvlu '* Frn CaHn 
¥-Student Discounts 
ZO% off Dry Cleaning 25$ oil Top Load Washers 
with Studenti.D. 



Lithuania challenges Communism 
MOSCOW (AP) -The Com­munist Party suffered a major defeat in the Soviet Union on Thursday when the republic of Lithuania abolished the consti­tutional guarantee of Commu­nist supremacy and legalized a multiparty system. 
Similar action has been taken in Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary and East Germany as part of the wave of political upheaval and reform that is 
diminishing  the  role  of  the  
Communist Party  in those  na­ 
tions.  

Lithuania's parliament defied Moscow with a resounding 243­1 vote to end the party's total dominance of all political and social organizations within the Baltic republic. Another 98 deputies abstained or stayed away from the session. 
President Mikhail Gorbachev has resolutely opposed a multi­party system for the Soviet Union. The challenge to the Communist power structure comes at a time when he faces a crippled economy, growing nationalism and demands from conservative communists for more order. 
The move in Lithuania, one of 15 Soviet republics, thrilled other Soviet activists who are organizing a two-hour general strike Monday to call for simi­lar action by the national par­liament. 
"Wonderfully done!" said ac­tivist Yelena Bonner on hearing of the Lithuanian action. "You cannot restrain the movement today. This is a good example for the other republics," said Bonner, wife of Nobel Peace Prize winner Andrei Sakharov, 

Lithuanian S.S.R. 

e Population: 3.7 million, 80% ethnic Lithuanians, 9% Russians. 
e Economy: Agriculture (cattle and hogs), light manufacturing. 
e The Supreme Soviet in Moscow has voted to allow Lithuania and the other Baltic republics to develop a market-oriented economy starting next year. 
e The Lithuanian parliament voted Dec. 7 to abolish the political supremacy of the Communist Party written into its constitution and legalize a multi-party system. 

liamentarians calling for the general strike. 
Estonia's parliament voted Wednesday to delay voting on a 
Happy 21st 8-Day! 
~oa\iJ 






FREE DELIVERY GRAND OPENING SPECIAL 
16" pepperoni pizza $7.95 +tax 
Now with two locations serving the Michiana area: 
SOUTH BEND  271-0110  
Notre Dame & Saint Mary's  
Campuses  
MISHAWAKA­ 255-0030  
OSCEOtA  

OFFER ENDS: 12-14-89 
similar switch to a multiparty 
system until next week, to allow 
time for public discussion. Ar­
menia's parliament was forced 
into a postponement Wednes­
day for lack of a quorum. 

The Lithuanian action re­
scinds Article 6 of the repub­
lic's constitution, which says 
the. Communist Party of the So­
viet Union is the "leading and 
guiding force of Soviet society, 
the nucleus of its political sys­
tem, government and social or­
ganizations," according to 
Tass. 

In practice, it meant that 
Communists dominated every 
sphere of life and every organi­
zation in the country. Until 
Gorbachev's reforms began to 
loosen the iron custom, ambi­
tious Soviets were forced to 
join the party and follow its 
orders to rise in any profession. 
Similar articles are found in 
the national constitution of the 
Soviet Union and those of the 
other 14 republics. 

Word of the call for a general 
strike to demand a parliamen­
tary vote on the national ver­
sion of Article 6 began to per­
colate through Soviet society 
Thursday, after it was reported 
by Western radio stations. 

On Thursday, the newspaper 
Izvestia published the first mention of the strike call in a generally circulated Soviet pub­. lication. The article was highly critical of the strike call but nevertheless spread the word to the newspaper's 9.5 million 
readers nationwide. 

In Latvia, the People's Front 
is scheduled to meet with fac­
tory and labor leaders to re­
spond to the call for a general 
strike. 



Iraq claims it has test-fired two missiles 
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) -Iraq 
claimed Thursday it has test­
fired two long-range missiles 
and successfully launched a 
rocket able to carry satellites 
into space, developments that 
could affect the Middle East's 
military balance. 

Hussein Kamel, minister of 
industry and military industri­
alization, said the three-stage 
rocket was launched Tuesday 
from the AI-Anbar space re­
search center 50 miles west of 
Baghdad. 

He also claimed in a state­
ment broadcast by state-run 
Baghdad Radio that Iraq has 
test-fired two surface-to-sur­
face missiles with a range of 
1,240 miles. 

That is enough to reach Cairo 
to the west, Athens and Istan­
bul to the northwest, all of Iran 
to the east, and the southern 
Soviet Union to the north. 

Iraq's other main foes, Israel 
and Syria, are already within 
range of missiles reported in 
Iraq's armory. 

If the Iraqi claims are true, 
the developments will heighten 
Soviet and U.S. fears of a new 
arms race in the Middle East. 

State Department spokesman 
Richard Boucher said he had 
heard reports Iraq had devel­
oped intercontinental ballistic 
missile but knew nothing about 
their validity. 

Kamel gave no details of the 
surface-to-surface missiles and 
did not say when the test-fir­
ings occurred. 

The heaviest missile the 
Iraqis are believed to have de­
veloped is the al-Hussain, with 
a range of about 560 miles. 

The U.S. Polaris nuclear mis­
sile weighs only 13 tons. 

r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­


Viewpoint 
Friday, December 8, 1989
page 8 

P 0. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Reg•s Cocc1a R1ch Iannelli 

Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly K1llen Viewpoint Editor . Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager Shannon Roach Sports Editor .Theresa Kelly Production Manager Alison Cocks Accent Editor John Blas1 Systems Mgr Bernard Brenn1nkmeyer Photo Editor Eric Bauey OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Christine Gill Controller Anne L1ndner 
I he Observer 1S the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Univers1· ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College It does not necessanly reflect the pol· 1c1es of the adm1n1strat•on of either mst1tut1on. The news IS reported as accurately and ob· Ject•vely as poss1ble Uns•gned ed1tonals represent the op1mon of the matonty of the follow1ng Ed1tor·1n-Ch1ef. Managing Editor, Executive News Ed1tor. V1ewpo1nt Editor. Sports Ed1tor. Accent Ed1tor. Photo Ed1tor. Samt Mary's Ed•tor Commentanes letters. and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of their authors Column space 1s available to all members of the commumty and the free express1on of vary•ng opm1ons on campus. through letters, IS encouraged 

Fear hinders entry of women into the Church 
places without fear. This was ordained ministry of the their fullest capacity, of being can bring. Perhaps the gapsBy Mary Abowd extremely empowering and Catholic Church? Could it be the people they want to be. There is between laity and clergy would freeing, for as long as we are fear that seeps through the a succinct and properly biting 
begin to narrow; new ways of stifled by our fear of assault ranks of the Church's hierar­bit of wisdom which seems to viewing the clergy would come 
On Thursday night of Call to and rape, we are, in a sense, chy: a poison which chokes out cut to the heart of this matter. Peacemaking Week, you may held hostage. the possibility of women and It goes like this: "If you don't about where a priest would be have noticed a candlelight pro­Self-defense expert Judith men sharing equally in the of­ordain women, stop baptizing more of a brother or sister cession of fifty or more women Fein put it well when she said ficial life of the Church? A fear 
them." than an untouchable "holy per­and men marching through the "fear is more of a women's en­to try what has never yet been Just as women must confront son" to be venerated but not 
dark of the campus. You may emy than a rapist". She sug­tried? their fears as potential victims talked to like a real person.have heard chants like "Women gests that we should follow our With the present shortage of of violent crimes, those who 
Male-female relationships
unite! Take back the night!" or anger and our outrage to moti­priests, I think it is high time perpetuate unjust structures within the Church would only"The rising of the women vate us to constructive action. that those standing in opposi­such as an exclusively male improve, and women would no means the rising of the race!" Although we have these very le­tion to the ordination of women priesthood need to confront longer feel like second-class cit­This was all part of a march gitimate fears, we must not let begin to swallow their fears their fears. Reluctance to take izens in the Church. entitled "Take Back the Night" them keep us down. and cast a vision toward the action and tactics of delay are Just as we marched to feel in which our purpose was to We cannot submit to our future of the Church. Our both ways in which fear takes empowered and overcome our 
reclaim what is rightfully fears but instead must try to Church is changing. The num­over. fears, so too must those who ours-the freedom to walk overcome them. We cannot let ber of priests is declining fear a changing Church over­
where we would like at any time our socialization where we are steadily, and the number of Meanwhile, the entire Church come their fears. We must and to walk without fear. "priestless Sundays" is on the is missing out. To those who imagine a better Church, a 
In my first year at Notre 'With the present rise. It is ridiculous to allow a refuse to allow women to as­Church which includes women Dame, I was told "you must tradition and discrimination on sume a more public role in the in its every capacity. Then we never walk around the lakes shortage of priests, I think the basis of sex to stand in the 
Catholic Church, I say take can take action to make it bet­
alone a night!" l learned that it is high time that those way of the Eucharistic celebra­back the night inside your­ter. The time has most del1­there was a long, scary road standing in opposition to tion. selves, take back your fear. nitely come to give it a try.called-much to my horror­The Christian vocation to love Imagine all the good that can
the ordination of women

"rape road," and, if I walked and serve one another comes at come about from men and down it at the wrong time, l begin to swallow their baptism; if those women who women sharing together Mary Abowd is a senior in the 
could learn of its true meaning fears and cast a vision feel called to serve as priests equally in their ministry. Imag­Program of Liberal Sltldies and for myself. The seemingly safe are not allowed to do so, they ine the transformation and life­a member of Women United for
toward the future of the 

and harmless atmosphere of are being deprived of serving in nurturing influence that women Justice and Peace. Notre Dame soon became a Church.' 
myth for me and for many 
other women I knew. 
The stifling fear we feel 
walking after dark as a name­
lnss, faceless stranger ap­
proaches has the power to par­
alyze us. On one level, this fear 
keeps us from enjoying the 
night, yet on a much deeper 
level. it keeps us from being our 
whole selves because our 
growth is stunted by fear. 
Women are victims of assault 
and rape in ways which are 
unique to us, and, thus, our 
fears are unique. 
By uniting to "take back" the 
night, we were joining together 
to walk through the darkest 
places in campus-perhaps 
those which incite the most 
fear. We were joining together 
as a way of experiencing those 
DOONESBURY 
taught that it is "unlady-like" to scream or be rude or inflict pain keep us from warding off an attacker. We must get an­gry. We must become resisters. Whether it means tear gas or verbal and physical self-de­fense, we women must refuse to be intimidated. 
These reflections on "Take Back the Night" prompted some further thoughts on how fear can be the enemy if it is al­lowed to prevail. Women do be­come victims of their own fear, but more often, they fall prey to the fears that other people may have in regard to them. 
The immediate example that comes to mind is the ordination of women. Why are women prohibited from entry into the 


LETTERS 

Dining hall employees deserve respect 
Dear Editor: "Gimme some of whatever that are not going to improve any­
I would like to address this is supposed to be be." Even the thing. letter to all the students at lack of appreciation shown by Bather, with a little consider­Notre Dame who eat in the din­the way students leave extra ation and kindness, you will be ing halls. I'm sure that, at one dishes and trash strewn about making the worker's day a bit time or another, most of us the dining halls after meals more pleasant and thereby have complained about bad doesn't exactly encourage these making the workers themselves food or slow service at the din­people to be enthusiastic about try a little harder to make their ing halls, but I think we fail to their work. service to you better. see the enormous amount of Dining hall employees are not Even if you don't want to work these people do for us. emotionless automatons. If treat these peopje with kindness The dining halls serve thou­they feel that their hard work is and respect for their sakes, at sands of meals every day to appreciated, they will most least do it for the improvement often unappreciative students. likely be willing to put a little of the service you love to 
With all the faces dining hall bit of extra effort into serving complain about. workers look at every day, it your meals. Snide remarks and Jennifer Nesbella can be discouraging to see peo­childish pranks in exchange for Lewis Hall ple grimace in disgust and say, poor service or a bad dinner Dec. 4. 1989 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
$75 A OAY PU.J5 Tl(AV/31... IJ.XPeNse<3? UIHAT IS 7HI5, A COUP fJ'&TAT OR JURY 
IJUTYr' 7HIS IS AN INSULT! 
mts1s our­
llA6EOUs.' 

13Vti?YON8 USC: 15 WORKING FOR 5C.4i.e, 700. W PUU a=F TH/3 ({)()P, W'U.. 6eTA NICb TA~& ON THe 8AO< tN/?. 7AKe ITO/?. LEAV/3 IT. 
GOO, H&Y, JAPAN 
I HATe OWNS US! UFe'S t«JRI</N6 7f}(JGH ,tJU OVCR t IVR R:JR­
\ 
1316N Ff:JU/IJR51 
I 

'The hardest work of all is to do nothing.' 
Jewish Proverb 


_----_----~·-------~---------~·~ 
Viewpoint
Friday, December 8, 1989 page 9 
Supermarket visit conjures up profound ideas 
After sitting through a morning of truly dreadful classes. and perhaps, failing a t1~st or two. the last place I generally want to go to is one that is depressing. Unfortu­nately, when I sit down at lunch and open my copy of The Ob­server, th1~ depressing place usually comes to me. This domicile of gloom and doom is g1~nerally known as the View­point page-without a doubt the most depressing place on campus. 
The typical Viewpoint column is about as fun and cheery to read as a mor'tician's report. Day after day, oh-so-grim ha­rangues about the political af­fairs of faraway lands appear, in addition to the letters from people who feel compelled to vent their fury about the most trivial things. The same bloody topics get dredged up for an­other go-round every few months. 
Some peopiP, especially ivory­tower radicals. apparently think that whatever is printed lwre has some earth-shaking import. I, for one, do not. I write so that I can see my name in print. in big capital letters. 
Now, most of the stuff I've written for The Observer could only be described as stupid, inarw nonsense. This, like the KeerHlll Hevue (which gets bashed year in and year out for its alleged 'sexism·), has appar­Pntly gotten some local grinches upset. 
My Pditor n~cently informed me that. immPdiatPiy aftN my last column appearPd, a few would-bP campus intellm·tuals raiiPd a mePting with him to see if tlwy could have "humor and satin•" bamwd from the View-
Glenn G. Fogarty 
With No Apologies 
point page. since columns 
'must' deal with, anrl I quote, "serious and weighty issues." Therefore, I suppose I should at least try to be sufficiently se­rious for a change. Since I just returned from Kroger's, I've decided to write a "serious and weighty" dissertation on vari­ous aspects of going to a su­permarket. 
I like supermarkets. It's a re­ally wonderful thing that you can but milk, cookies, really cheap SYH flowers and a per­sonal copy of the National En­quirer all under one roof. Just the very word 'supermarket' has a nice ring to it. 
The word 'Krogering', espe­cially if you roll your R (Krrrrrogering) off the tip of your tongue. the way the Prus­sians do, sounds even better. Due to the fact that I am con­ducting a highly "serious and weighty" discussion here, I looked into the etymological underpinnings of 'supermar­ket.' 
From the Latin, it may liter­ally be translated as "that which stands over Marcus', seemingly referring to a large roof or building of some sort." After much serious and weighty historical research I discovered that 'Marcus' refers to one Marcus Atlanticus et Pacificus, an ancient Homan trader with an especially large tent. (The A&P chain contends that this fellow is its founder, although I am a bit skeptical of this claim.) So much for etymology. 
As you enter a Kroger store, you are immediately awakened 

by a particularly annoying jin­
gle which repeats over and 
over; it goes something like 
"Let's go Kroger­
ing! .... la,la,la,la,la," (I forget 
the words. Forgive me.) I sup­
pose this is intended to conjure 
up your 'buying spirit,' to get 
you 'in the mood' as it were. 
In the past. I have heard 
rather ordinary announcements 
in supermarkets about sales, a 
Ia the proverbial "Attention K­
Mart Shoppers!" In addition, 
one occasionally hears some 
babbling about 'subliminal 
messages' in the elevator music 
that supermarkets play in the 
aisles, messages that somPhow 
'I like supermarkets. It's a wonderful thing that you can buy milk, cookies, really cheap SYR flowers and a personal copy of the National Enquirer all under one roof.' 
'suggest' what to buy. (However, since its usually Ger­aldo Rivera talking about these messages, I'm inclined to disbe­lieve it.) 
One thing is for sure, though, 
and it is that Kroger has taken 
the idea of the 'power of sug­
gestion' to its practical limit 
with something called, appro­
priately. KrogerRadio, complete 
with its own 'DJ.' "Hi, this is 
Joe Schmoe from KrogerRadio. 
You know, Krogerers, it's really 
nice that you're Krogering with 
us today at Kroger. And now a 
word from ... " What follows is 
an endless succession of every 
conceivable type of commercial, 
by and for "real people." 
First, there's a phony surf punk who says "Hey, dudes, I just got this new benzol perox­ide stuff, and its like EXCEL­LENT! I haven't had a zit for two days!" Then comes a guy with blocked up nasal passages saying "Oh, gosh, what a cold! I need AFRIN! It think it's over in aisle 10." Every 'message' is a roundabout way of saying 'buy 
this.' 
There is always an inordinate number of little ones in the store, usually pestering their mommies to buy Franken­Berry, Lucky Charms, or some other junky cereal. Mom says "That's junk." Tyke replies "But Mommmm. They're Magically Delicious! I heard it on TV! Oh, pretty pretty please, Mom. I'll be extra good." 
All it takes is a single 'pretty pretty please' and a chain reac­tion is set off all over the store. One by one, every devious tyke in the place takes this as their cue and starts pestering for some treat. (Believe me, I have a five year old sister, and she tells me all about the little ones' collective schemes. It isn't sheer coincidence.) Leave it, at this point, to the KrogerRadio guy to pipe in over the loudspeaker with "Don't leave the store to­day, moms, without buying a special treat for your little friends!" At this, several kiddies exchanged surreptitious grins. 
Something fishy was going on here, and I knew just the man to ask about it: Alex the Butcher. 
Alex the Kroger Butcher is the most interesting character on South Bend TV because he is the only character who ever has new episodes. The stations ap­parently haven't discovered that there are shows around other than age-old reruns of MASH and Cheers. I hurried to the butcher department to find this veritable monarch of meat-packing. 
"Where's Alex?" sayeth I to the man behind the counter. 
"Who?" 

"Alex. You know, the guy on TV." 
"Look kid, don't waste my time. I don't know the guy." 
So much for Alex. 

Whenever I go to Kroger, I always seem to run into eccen­tric domer friends whom I would rather avoid. These peo­ple must hide out in the library reading Upton Sinclair's 'The Jungle' and other sordid food­packing tales, wondering how they are going to ruin my ap­petite the next time I'm in Kroger's. I pick up a bottle of Hershey's Syrup, and I hear a voice behind me saying: 
"I wouldn't buy that if I were you. You know, it's very hard in a chocolate factory to tell the difference between a bug shell and a cocoa bean. That stuff is disgusting." 
You just can't shake these people. I pick up a package of hot-dogs: 
"Oh, man, if you only knew what went into those things, you'd stay a mile away from them." 
Needless to say, these are not 
fun people to run into in a su­
permarket. 

Anyway, that's about all I have to say in this dissertation. Ther·e's only so many 'serious' and 'weighty' things you can say about the topic, however profound it may be. 
Glenn G. Fogarty is a junior history/ALPA major and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

Dear Editor: 
On Oct. 8, 1989 over 600 people walked through South Bend in the city-wide CROP Walk. raising over $25,000 to help feed the hungry in our community and around the world. 
The Notre Dame student body contributed over $1000 to that total, the largest amount we have ever raised for the South Bend CROP Walk in the 6 years it has been in existence. Student government and the Center for Social Concerns express their sincere gratitude to all who walked or contributed. Your participation made this CHOP Walk one of the most meaning­ful community service projects we participate in. 
The CROP Walk is the annual project designated to raise money for the South Bend Food Bank, the Center for the Homeless, and other interna­tional relief organizations. By walking 10 kilometers through South Bend, participants earn the donations of their sponsors while increasing community awareness about the needs of the hungry. Almost every hall on the Notre Dame campus sponsored students walkers, contributing to this very suc­cessful project. 
Notre Dame's participation in the CROP Walk also sent a posi­tive message to the South Bend community. It shows that we are indeed concerned about the needs of the city and that we want to make a genuine con­tribution to solving its prob­lems. The committee which or­ganizes the CROP Walk for the entire city expressed their thanks to Notre Dame for car­ing about the hungry and join­ing together with the rest of South Bend in this very success­ful effort. 
Thanks again to all who par­ticipated in this year's CROP Walk and to all the hall com­munity service commissioners who helped to organize it. Your time and energy has made a no­ticeable difference. 
Bill Mordan Student Government Social Concerns Commissioner 
Kathy Royer Coordinator Service/ Social Action Groups Nov. 16, 1989 




LETTERS 

Editor's note: The following letters were misprinted in yesterday's issue of The Observer. The corrected letters appear below. The Observer regrets the error. 
Start off the year with liturgy of the Word 
Dear Editor: eluding women from the priest­Notre Dame's Catholic identity,It is sadly ironic that the fea­hood; neither could the Catholic as Fred Freddoso facetiouslytured editorial in the new cam­Theological Society of America. implies in his letter to the editor 
pus magazine Dialogue refers The Canon Law Society's (The Observer, Nov. 21)? Can to the campus discussion of Committee on the Status of he seriously suggest that women's ordination as Women in the Church concluded opening the school year with a 
"schismatic.'' My proposal that that the exclusion of women non-Eucharistic service of the we substitute a liturgy of the from ordination is the most Word will start us down the Word for the Eucharist at the blatant example of "anti-femi­slippery slope towards Brown 
opening ritual of the school nine bias" in Church law. and Yale's godless secularism? year was met with invidious la­While many parishesbeling ("absurd," "ridiculous") throughout the world must Ridicule and sarcasm must instead of reasons and argu­cope with priestless Sundays, give way to serious discussion ments. the Notre Dame community cel­of the women's ordination issue ebrates thousands of masses if the Church is to respond to The understandable alien­each year. We very modestly the charge of shameful sexism. ation of millions of faithful request that one occasion be 
Catholic women deserves a set aside for a service in which Clark Power thoughtful response. The women can be full presiders. Associate Professor Pope's own Biblical Commission Will forgoing one Mass Program of Liberal Studies could find no reason for ex-among the thousands dilute Dec. 1, 1989 
Loss of St. Michael's touches many lives 
Dear Editor: ters. Mr. Joe Zadrozny in his article 
I am disturbed as to what Our debt to these employees "Fire Leaves Mark on Men's was not said or was inadver­past and present is infinite. Fashion at ND;" which ap­tently omitted by The Observer They went about their task of peared in The Observer, Nov. as to the tragic loss of St. sorting soiled linen and sundry 28. I found his article rather Michael's Laundry a few weeks tasks with little or no thanks or silly, immature and unfeeling in ago. recognition. No matter how .light of losing our laundry and 
St. Michael's Laundry was a much money is spent on re­the disruption of the lives of the precious landmark to many of building another laundry, you employees who labored there. It us here on the campus, past can never replace the unique could be doubly trying for many and present. It was unique in so beauty of what was lost. In my because Christmas is so near. many ways, as were the won­40 years near and around this Mr. Zadrozny has inadver­derful dedicated men, women campus, I consider myself for­tantly omitted the sadness and and Holy Cross Sisters who la­tunate in knowing so many of sad effect on the lives of the bored there throughout the these totally dedicated people, laundry employees. May St. decades. These dedicated people and my life has been enriched Michael come to our assistance have made a· unique contri­fourfold by our mutual friend­in our loss. bution to this University, the ship. Brother Edward Courtney students, faculty and Holy Also, it is with much vexation Columba Hall Cross priests, brothers and sis-of spirit that I take issue with Nov. 29, 1989 

_______,,.._--~----------. ~-~--------------~-------­
Chicago shopping, muse 
COLLEEN CRONIN and North Michigan Avenue tional (and cheaper) visit to ROBYN SIMMONS are fully decorated with those Chicago, she has some gn~at assistant accent editors small Italian lights, and the museums. Working south from 
windows of the major depart­North Michigan, the Musl'um of 
T 
ment stores are decorated as Contemporary Art on East his is the last well. Marshall Fields at Water Ontario is known as one of the weekend be­Tower Place has always been most daring modern art muse­fore the finals the granddaddy of window ums, and a few of the galleries crunch set in sightseeing, and should not be are devoted specifically to for real; the missed. Also, for those who still Chicago-area artists. It is open last weekend to need to do Christmas shopping, Tues.-Sat. 10 to 5 and Sunday have anything check out the new 12 to 5. resembling a social life. Why Bloomingdale's mall, at 900 N. A 20-minute walk south along not take off to Chicago for at Michigan, which is enough to Michigan will bring you to The least part of it? keep even the quickest shopper Art lnstitutl' of Chicago. This is 
With the Christmas season busy for hours. While the one of the world's leading art now in full swing, Chicago is at checkbook is still handy, take a museums and houses some of fish, as· its very best. From shopping walk to Gucci, Tiffany's, and the finest French lmpmssionist reptiles, North Michigan Avenue to Burberry's (just to name a few) and Post-Impressionist collec­CUpy OVI browsing through museums, and see how that "other half' tions outside of France. George water e: there is enough to fill up an lives. All nine floors of Water Seurat's Sunday in the After­ever wa afternoon and then some. Tower Place go without saying. noon on the Island of l.a Grand underw; 
The trees along State Street Ifyou desire a more educa-Jatte (the painting of dots) and at the Sl Wood's American Gothic. Them most int arc collections of oriental, Eu­is tlw 9( ropean, primitive and textile exhibit~ art. One of the speeial exhibits tlw mus now open is the Thorne Minia­fpeding ture Hooms. Thesn an~ 68 habitan1 miniature rooms that give a history of European and Amer­ican interior dnsign from 1500 
through 1948. They are on a onn-inch to one-foot scale and are remarkably and beautifully detailed. 
Hunning south on Lake Shore Drive (with the water on th1~ driver's side) you'll find anum­ber of museums. Even though it's possible to spend an entire day in just one of tlws1~ places, their dose proximity to each other makes it possible to visit four museums in one afternoon. Not only ar1~ the exhibits fascinating, but the museum fl'rPnt gift shops offer a wide variety of tmn. T holiday gift ideas. at tlw 
The Fil'ld Museum of Natu­Show, ral History has over 19 million tation 1 artifaets and specimens in the planets fields of anthropology, botany, For geology, and zoology. The highlights of the Field Museum include the gem exhibit with jewels from around the world. towering dinosaur skeletons, 
Lisa M.L. D'AnzifThe Observer 
ancient Egyptian mummies, A dazzling nighttime view of the Chicago skyline as seen from the and a rather extensive NativeJohn Hancock building. 
Improv provides comtc• 
PAIGE A. SMORON sweated on (although this is not thousand pints of Lite!" assistant accent editor actually a problem,) and you As expected, the Second City are frequently invited to attacks politics. The group 
D 
o you make fun contribute to the performance. takes issues that usually cause of people who The cast features Mark people to debate and sputter, carve things out Beltzman, Michael McCarthy, and looks at them from original of driftwood? Huthie Rudnick, Jill Talley, and angles. At one point, the stage Do you enjoy Hon West in a series of roles becomes the clubhouse of a disastrous from tuba players to members group of terrorists in Beirut "Love Connection" dates? Do of the National Hille Associa­(the password is, "Salmon the words "George Bush" start tion. In the second half of the Hushdie's mother wears combat you giggling? Then you, the show, they make up original boots." ) Another skit is set in discerning comedy consumer, skits on the spot, based on the the future; a tour group gazes should be in your element at suggestions of the audience, no upon the "Last Liberal," on ex­the Second City's E.T.C. revue, matter how bizarre. hibit ("Careful! Don't get too "America Lite." E.T.C.'s sixth revue, "America dose-his heart'll bleed all over The E.T.C. stage is just an al­Lite," takes its name from a skit you!" ) George Bush is, of ley away from the regular Sec­resembling a "lite" beer course, an easy and frequent ond City in Chicago, and for commercial, that instead glori­target. $8.50 you can enjoy the fies America's new and im­The cast comes up with situa­"Saturday Night Live" style proved "lite" tions like a clown in a dunking humor and improvisation of government-needless to say, booth that can't quite get the the Second City, in an informal Vice President Dan Quayle is hang of insulting people (the setting. As a member of the au­the spokesperson. lie sings, he best he can do is, "You! Occa­dience, you are seated close dances, he even says, sional substance user!",) and enough to the stage to be "Bartender! Give me a second graders who attempt to 
"Shocker" 9:50 p.m. 
"Staying Together" 7:20p.m. "Steel Magnolias" 7 & 9:30p.m. "Old Gringo" 7:10 & 9:40p.m. "Welcome Home" 5:15, 7:45 & 9:45 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST "Little Mermaid" 5: 10, 7 & 9 p.m. "Look Who's Talking" 5:25, 7:20 & 9:30 p.m. "Back to the Future II" 7 & 9:40 p.m. 




a e 11 

ms & eats 
n exhibit. The Native n exhibit features , tools. and artwork ·ious tribes, and for the , them arc storytellers liJiktalcs inside the earth lodge. "Inside Egypt" is a new pcrma­libit which allows visi­cnture inside of a full­ptian tomb. 
from the Field Mu­cr 8000 aquatic ani­ke their home in the Shedd Aquarium. Big 
e fish, glow-in-the-dark ell as mammals, and amphibians oc­
•r 200 fresh and salt­hibits. Everything you 11Pd to know about the ttcr world can be found edd Aquarium. The 
eresting display by far ,000 gallon Coral Beef ituated in the middle of mm. There are daily imes for the reefs in­s (which include cer­eties of sharks) in diver talks to visitors a two-way microphone ving mask. The Coral 
1ibit is cylindrical, so a 
number of visitors are iew feeding time. all tlw_ museums along 
ore Dnvc. the Adler 
(
rium. with its domed 1tory, is the most rncog­. The Planetarium has a :of exhibits on the his­space exploration. and re booths to stand in to 
what your weight e on the moon and dif­lanets in thn solar sys­~ most popular exhibit anetarium is the Sky multi-media represen­lhe l'onstellations. md distant galaxies. ne visiting the Plane­w Sky show is a must­
se who only haw nw to visit just one of urns along Lake Shore sum to go to the Mu-
Sdence and Industry 
before going anywhere else. The Museum of Science and In­dustry boasts approximately 2,000 exhibits demonstrating scientific principles, technical advances, and industrial appli­cations. The pnrmanant ex­hibits include a trip through a coal mine. the Apollo 8 space­craft. and a tour of a real Ger­man U-boat. At this time of year, the Museum of Science and Industry presents Christ­mas Around the World, the an­nual display of Christmas trees representing a wide range of cultures. It is impossible to see every exhibit in this museum in only one day, but Christmas Around the World should be your first stop. 
After shopping or museum­hopping (or both) hungry trav­elers can get to indulge their appetites in one of Chicago's many famous restaurants. Some of the best places to eat are situated along Ontario Street. For lovers of Mexican food. there is Su Casa, which features Mariachi performers, and the best pizza in Chicago-perhaps the world­is just a few yards away at Pizzeria Due's (one block north of its parent restaurant, Pizzeria Uno's.) A few blocks further on down Ontario is the Chicago branch of the Hard Rock Cafe and the immensely popular Ed DeBevic's. modeled after a 50s diner. Across the street from Ed's is a McDonalds, but not just any McDonalds-this particular branch of America's favorite fast food chain is lilled with paraphernalia from the 50s and 60s. 
Between the many depart­mont stores, malls, museums, and restaurants Chicago has to offnr in the Near North side alone, visitors should have no problems finding things to do in the Windy City. And if you can't cover all the territory you want to the first time around, you can always come back for more. 

Leona's: Italian food at its best 
JOHN BLASI accent editor 
I 
f you're looking for a great Italian restaurant that believes in 
abbondanza , 
plentiful portions, and you've worked up quite an appetite running between floors at Water Tower Place, then try one of Leona's restaurants in Chicago. 
Located in three different places in Chicago, Leona's features an extensive menu that includes everything from fried mozzarella and buffalo wings for appetizers to fresh swordfish, Rotini Primavera, hamburgers, and ribs for main course selections. 
The casual and friendly atmosphere we encountered at Leona's supported their "good food-good attitude" motto. Leona's varied menu and trendy atmosphere make it an overall success. 
One thing we noticed about Leona's was that you really get more than your money's worth for the entrees. In addition to the loaf of fresh bread with ri· cotta spread, dinners include soup, salad, and a dish of Leona's special cookies for dessert. 
We started our meal with an order of the Mozzarella ($3.95,) 


·elief at Second City 
port on the Contras. 
the skits arn funny on I leVf~l. sometimes they oke mom serious 
a woman babbling on ' to her absent hair­s actually more pa­
funny. d half of the show, '"u""""' section, is ontaneous. One 
ians will ask the for random sugges­"somcthing blue," or " etc., and in a matter 
utes, the group will th fresh skits. It's e exciting than the its; they will usually 
or they'll fall flat, way the performers and themselves. For example, with the 
"Batman," they de­out a confrontation the Penguin and the 
Joker discover Bruce Wayne's true identity ("They were never in the room at the same time! I knew it!") and even simulate a BIFF! BAM! POW! slugfest, without really knowing what the next line was going to be. 
Other forms of improvisation require the audience to think up the first line and the last line of a conversation, and the group acts it out. This can be a lot harder than it sounds, espe­cially if there is an especially creative or demented audience. The group also performs a freeze skit, where actors can order other actors to "freeze," so they can take their place and completely change the topic. The possibilities are endless, and often very physical. 
From time to time the skits require a few minutes of prepa­ration backstage, and a come­dian is sent out on stage to for time. These lillers can be just as funny as the actual show-one actor expressed his views on school bands, while another one spontaneously re­cited an "Ode to a Chair." 

All in all, a Chicago night in the back alley of Second City is a night to remember, complete with music, special effects, and exotic fruity drinks. And even if you've invested in driftwood clocks, have been emotionally scarred from a "Love Connec­tion" date, or have voted for George Bush, odds are E.T.C. will make you laugh. 
I ' 
l 
1: 

large egg roll shaped wedges of mozzarella cheese dipped in a thin batter and deep fried. These cheese sticks were among the bestthat we've had. 
The main courses were 
hearty and good overall. We 
tried the scallops and fettuccine 
($9.65,} linguini and clam sauce 
($8.95 available on Fridays 
only), the spaghettini {$6.95,) 
and the rotini primav· 
era($7.95.) 

The scallops and fettucine were baked scallops served over fettucinc with a rich cream sauce, The scallops, fresh and large, were not as plentiful as expected, but were good nonetheless. The special on Fridays, the linguini and fresh clam sauce, was particularly noteworthy. The spaghettini, featuring home made pasta with Leona's special sauce. was also tasty. 
The rotini prima vera was a combination of large fresh vegetables served on top of rotini pasta and covered with a rich cream sauce. The only complaints we had with the rotini was that the vegetables were not cut in small enough chunks which made eating the dish rather challenging. 
In addition to the dishes we tried several other dishes sounded and looked tempting. Many of the main courses were also served as side dishes and appetizers for those with smaller appetites. Spaghettini, rotini, mostaccioli, and the fet­tuccine alfredo all were served as appetizers {$3.75). The antipasto salad ($5.95} sounded very tempting with Genoa salami, imported ham, and various cheeses. 
Leona's menu also featured some tempting sandwiches including burgers {$5.45,) Italian sausage ($5.45,) and steak sandwiches($8.95.) Every type of pizza imaginable including pan ($11 ,45 for an 18") and stuffed ($1 1.95) was available on the menu. Leona's also featured a wine list and several varieties of imported beer. We tried Leona's own brew which proved to be quite good. If diners ha:ve room for dessert, the homemade cannolis ($1.95) were great and the gourmet pecan brownie ($3.25) sounded tempting. 
Leona's has three locations. The two closest are one near Lincoln Park at 3215 N. Sheffield and the other near Loyola's lakeshore campus in Roger's Park at 6935 N. SheridaR Rd. All of the Leona's are large, but if you plan on making a weekend visit, then reservations would be a good idea. In any case, try one of them for a hearty homecooked Italian meal. 
-
.... 
--------~--~~---~---------~ ­
page 12 The Observer Friday, December 8, 1989 
-
Servants of Mary, honoring her on her feast 
i\ lovely legend tells how since we have the same father, mentalism and the attitude of hear how matchless she is in 18th century, the mad poet, Mary, the Mother of God, when but she has no authority over contempt for the world felt by her sinlessness, or that's it's Christopher Smart wrote a she was first taken to the tern­us; we have to admire, but not the New Testament writers. not for nothing that she's de­poem famous for its ecstatic 
pin at four years old, danced imitate." It has taken two thousands scribod as "our tainted Na­sense of the presence of the for joy at the sight of the Holy The poets were the first to years for Christianity to face ture's solitary boast." I loly Spirit. The most famous of Holies. The painful part of reject the heresy of the mad the world and accept it without A Carmelite nun from Eng­passage describes Smart's cat lovely legtmds, of course, is that Manichaeans, who declared the fear, he says. Gaudium et Spes land explains sin this way, it's Jeoffry: "For I am possessed of affirmed this acceptance of the to be seen as "on orientation, a a cat, surpassing in beauty,world which, for all its frailty more or less continual seri<~s of from whom I take occasion to
Father Robert Griffin 
is, after all, God's creation, in choices against what one praise God... For he is the ser­and with the Word, who became knows in one's deepest heart is vant of the living God duly and Man in Mary. She is not an right. It is an evasion of life, a daily serving Him..." Then. at
Letters to a Lonely God 

goddess, the Carmelite points refusal to stand in the truth of great length, the poet shows 
out; she is a woman who one's being. This is the offence how this very real cat, in all its it hurts so much when you can't umverse evil in itself. Blake saw shares with us our fragile hu­to God. that his beloved crea­frisks. celebratf~s the Maker, as bdieve them. the world as the reflection of manity. This has been called the tures, to whom he longs to give all things do, in his very being. 
I would never tell Darby O'Gill the eternal images. Age of Mary, "in the mind of a himself. refuse this gift." What I'm trying to say is II of Mary's allegnd frolic in If the ideal is more actual pious Catholic literature no I tell the beastie, "Do you much simpler, sending me a God's house; as a good-hearted than the real, this means, as longer much regarded." see? It's the totality of our God small cocker spaniel is one of cn~ature, he wouldn't under­Chesterton explains it, that you Perhaps if we can look at the centeredness that we should the ways in which Mary has stand tlw meaning of my might kill all the Lambs of the tragedy and glory of this age, worry about. So stop worrying shown her mother's love for doubts. Sometimes latl~ at World and eat them; but you so strangely overshadowed by about whether lie's listening to me. In accepting custody of 
._, night. we go to the Grotto to could not kill the Lamb of the the Power of the Spirit, so tense hear if we say "damn," when we Darby O'Gill as God's servant. say the rosary together. I recite imagination, which was the with the ·strain of liberation, so have spilt milk." grace has come into my life in a the pray1~rs, while Darby Lamb of God that taketh away filled with the new op1mness to Why is this a breakthrough in way that it might not otherwise watches me, arid listens. Then I the sins of the world. love we find among the young, truth for Darby and me? Be­bP there. remind him that he came into i\s you can see from this, "we may discover within and cause I used to wonder if she In telling Darby lw owes a my life as a gift from Our Lady, philosophy in our tradition is around, incognito, a mother's ever said "damn," when she dPbt to Our Lady, I'm reminding after I prayed to her for the deeply theological, just as the­love and a mother's presence spilt the milk. She probably myself how much I love the first Darby O'Gill, when he was ology is deeply philosophical. renewing the earth, bringing to didn't, but even if she did, it Grotto whern I buried the ashes sick and dying, and I didn't That's why human reflection on birth the Christ who fills the wouldn't make any difference, of the first dog I ever had, one want to lose him. I asked, "Let God, man and the universe can whole universe." or mean her demotion. Obvi­spring morning at 4 a.m., as him stay with me for awhile." be described as "a theology of I don't bother Darby's head ously, being sinless doesn't the new pup watched to see if I The answer was. "He's old and the secular." Such theology with the theology of Mary con­mean she wasn't human. would turn over a buried bone tin~d now. Allow him his rest, must be open to the divine as it ceived without any stain of I wonder about the hidden from an ancient flood for him. and replace him with a younger reveals itself in the secular. original sin, which is the mys­years in Nazareth. before she Does this sound maudlin'? version." Nature, the stepmother, then, tery celebrated in today's feast. became the "Stabat Mater do­There's nothing maudlin about 
I can't be sure that Darby speaks for herself to those who Father O'Donoghue complains lorosa," was being the Mother becoming responsible for the understands anything that I tell give her their attention: the sci­that speaking of her as "the of God ever a bed of roses, welfare of a housepet who re­him about our Blessed Mother, entist, the artist, the philoso­Woman Without Stain," ex­packed with mystical visions turns the favor by becoming re­but why should I expect him to pher, the poet. If the theologian poses her to being misunder­and divine communications'? sponsible for you. Christopher have a head for dogma? Start­believes that Christ is "all in stood as a porcelain figure or For my pet as for myself, "i\t Smart praised his Maker by ing with first principles, as an all," then His image is every­madonna in a niche. "Yet what my back I always hear!fime's pointing out that no dog is an apologetics always does, I ex­where in a universe that re­is being asserted is that she is winged chariot hurrying near." island, as the Seat of Wisdom plain that the main point of veals I lim sacramentally as in perfectly a woman... I don't Does it seem irmvernnt to in­well knew whm1 she sent Darby Christianity is this: that Nature monstance. try to tell Darby all the ways in troduce my dog into an article (}'Gill to be a sidekick to a is not our mother. i\s Chester­The Irish Carmelite, Noel which our Blessed Mother written in praise of Our Lady <'ampus chaplain who would ton says, "Nature is our sister. Dermot ()'Donoghue, takes shares in the mystery of God's on her great feast'? I have a use him as a bridge to the stu­We can be proud of her beauty, note of the evangelical funda-life; I don't think it hurts him to precedent for doing so. In the dents of Notre Damn. 






With Macintosh 
I I I I 
you can 
even do this: 
I ~ 
I I I 
-
I I 
~ 
I I 
Madntosh"computers have Macintosh Sale, you can wind up with always been easy to use. But they've much more ofacomputer. never been this easy to own. Without spending alot more money 
•· Presenting The Madntosh Sale. 
Throughjanuary 31, you can save hundreds ofdollars on avariety ofApple" Macintosh computers and peripherals. 
So now there's no reason to settle for an ordinary PC. With The 
Notre Dame Computer Store Office of University Computing Math/Computing Center 
The Macintosh Sale.
239-74n 
.,.. Now through January 26 
0 1989Apple Computer, h1c. Apple. the Apple logo, and Macintosh an' rep,!Siered trademarks ofApple Computer. Inc. 
I

'Mailman' delivers for Jazz; Clippers, Lakers victorious 
Friday, December 8, 1989 
The Observer page 13 
l 
l 
i
SALT· LAKE CITY (AP) ­by Stockton. Malone had eight in the third quarter, only two center Joe Wolf, who pulled a points and reserve center VladeKarl Malone scored 31 points points in the third period. 
less than his former Cleveland back muscle in a collision with Divac added four of his 16;'and John Stockton added 22 Griffith lofted through an­teammates scored in the period, Cleveland's Craig Ehlo under points in a 9-0 run that gaveand 13 assists as the Utah Jazz other 3-pointer 1 :02 into the and led the Los Angeles the Clippers' basket early in the the Lakers a 7 4-66 lead withbeat the Dallas Mavericks 107-fourth quarter and Malone Clippers to a 105-88 victory third period with the Clippers 1:05 to play.
97 Thursday night for their 
drove the lane for a layup to over the Cavaliers on Thursday holding onto their three-point
third straight vicvtory. 
boost Utah to an 85-70 lead night. halftime lead. 
The Suns, who played without The Jazz led 80-67 at the end with 10:07 left to play. 

Charles Smith added 24 But Harper began his charge Kevin Johnson-who reinjured of the third quarter after a 3­Dallas took a 31-25 lead 9:48 points in the Clippers' first 24 seconds later with a 12-foot his left hamstring in practicepoint basket by Darrell Griffith into the second period, meeting with the Cavaliers since running jump shot and Los Monday -were unable to getwith three seconds left. Dallas outscoring Utah 10-2 in the the Nov. 16 trade that sent Angeles built its lead to 82-66 closer than three points thecut Utah's advantage to nine, first 2:12 of the quarter. Randy Harper and three future draft by the end of the period. rest of the way.
95-86, but that was as close as White scored four points in the choices to Los Angeles in ex­the Mavericks would come. run, then Utah started a 13-2 change for Reggie Williams and Lakers 100, Suns 96 James Worthy led all scorers 
Derok Harper led Dallas with streak in the next 2:27, with the rights to Danny Ferry. LOS ANGELES (AP) -Magic with 27 points and had six 24 points and Rolando Stockton and Malone scoring Williams played nine minutes Johnson scored 14 points in the points in an 11-3 spurt early in 
Blackman scored 18. Harper four each to put the Jazz ahead and failed to score. third quarter on the way to 18 the fourth quarter. That gavehit eight of 12 in the first half 38-33 with 6:42 left in the Mark Price had 21 points for points, 12 assists and 11 re­the Lakers an 86-7 5 edge with for 19 points. quarter. Utah never trailed the Cavaliers, who have bounds as the Los Anglees 7:08 remaining. 
Utah turned a 51-46 halftime after that. 
dropped five in a row and seven Lakers beat the Phoenix Sunslead into a 1 0-point advantage of eight following a five-game 100-96 Thursday night. Despite scoring only fourwith 7:26 left in the third quar­Clippers 105, Cavs 88 winning streak. Los Angeles took control of points in the first half, Johnson ter on a jump shot by Blue LOS ANGELES (AP) -Ron 
Los Angeles played the final the game late in the third pe­produced his 115th careerEdwards and two free throws Harper had 17 of his 29 points 23 1/2 minutes without starting riod when Johnson scored five triple double. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 1 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 


Classifieds 
NOTICES 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER. 233·7009. 
WORDPROCESSING 272-8827 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TEXTBOOKS BOUGHT AND SOLD 
PANDORA'S BOOKS CORNER OF N.D. AVE. AND HOWARD 
233·2342 LOTS OF PAPERBACKS IN STOCK! 
TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 277·7406 
NEED RIDE to WASH. D.C. AREA leaving Dec.22 WILL SHARE EXPENSES! PLEASE CALL JEN 284·4314 
TYPING term papers/reports/letters/resumes. Pick up & delivery available. 277 · 5134 Cathy. 

I LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: BLACK TOILETRY BAG WITH MY CONTACTS. CALL DOUG #2341. 
Lost: Cross Felt Tip Pen bearing the AT&T logo. It has sentimental Value. If found please call Joe@ x3804. REWARD!! REWARD!! REWARD!!! 
LOST : Navy I cream down coat at NO Ave. Apts. If found. please call Whitney@ x·2744. Thanks. 
HELP!!! Lost one brown leather bomber jacket Saturday night at the Worm!! In the pockets were my I.D."s, glasses, and a Kodak camera! Please call if you have any information concerning this coat!! Call: 
Tina @284·5199 
Lost: Rhinestone necklace with black stone in the center. If you have any information please contact Angela Smith or Laine Hickey at x3705, 345 Badin. 
$100REWARD If you have my tan camelhair overcoat lost at SMC Junior Formal. I need the coat and $100 will buy you alot of X-mas presents. 
rALL;~D 
1 

AnENTION: EARN MONEY READING BOOKS! $32,000/YEAR 
INCOME POTENTIAL. DETAILS. (1) 602·838-8885 EXT. BK 6262. 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900·2000 mo. Summer.yr.round,AII Countries, All fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04. Corona Del Mar CA 92625. 
GOING TO THE ORANGE BOWL? 
ARE YOU DRIVING? I need a ride BACK to anywhere on the east coast after the game. I'm fun. I'll make great conversation & I'll even pay & drive. Please call Karen x1511. 
WANTED: Entrepreneurial students to work as marketing reps on·campus for our MasterCard and Visa Card program as well as other popular student offers. Just two to four flexible hours per week with unlimited earnings potential! Applications being -------------------· 
Rich 1 1.52 Personal 
3 
12/08 12/11 12/12 HELP! I need a ride to the Albany, NY area for X·mas Break. Call John@ 4123 
RIDERS NEEDED-­I"M DRIVING HOME TO WASH. DC WED. DEC 20TH. WILL TAKE RIDERS. CALL 1511. 
RIDERS NEEDED for travel from SB to San Diego-tv p.m. 12/2Q-any city near route ok­CALL JAMES@ 237·9533! 
FOR RENT 
NEAR N.D. Clean, comfortable, and furnished apartments: 
• 755 South Bend Ave, efficiency­$225, 1 bedroom·$265. • 607 1/2 E. Corby. 1 bedroom­$295. 
Deposit, references . 616-483·9572. 
MALE/FEMALE HOUSEMATE NEEDED FOR NEXT SEMESTER. OWN BEDROOM, CLOSE TO CAMPUS, HOUSE IN GREAT CONDITION. 120/MO. +UTIL. PLEASE CALL 289-4621. 
4 BR, N.D. AVE .. furnished house for rent beginning AUG. 
"90. GRAD STUDENTS OR SRS. RESERVE NOW! 259·7801 days or 255-5852 evenings/wknds. 
House available 1990·91 school year. Furnished, well maintained. secure home. 5 bedrooms, WID, close to campus. Competitive rent. Call 264-6010 
FLORIDA KEYS·ORANGE BOWL Marathon. Fla Keys·2hrs Miami Dec. 23-30; 2/2; Sleeps 6 Sun, Fishing, Snorkeling, Pool 
$1000+$200 Security Deposit 813· 996-6159 After 9pm EST 
Nice furnished homes for next school year. Close to NO. 277· 3097. 
PART/ALLY FURNISHED APT. CLOSE TO NO. 233-7631/234­8743. 




L-_FO_R_S_A_L_E_~
1 
'78 TOYOTA COROLLA $1800. 287-2062. 
PIONEER PDM·60 MULTI-DISC PLAYER FOR SALE. GOOD AS NEW. WILL 1633. 
BUYING can be CHEAPER than RENTING! INVEST in your FUTURE! Call MARILYN KULLER to DISCOVER how! REIMAX 1 00 Realty. 255-5858, 234-6325 
100% PURE ALPACA WOOL SWEATERS FOR SALE ALL SIZES GREAT GIFT FOR XMAS CALL 287-3162 AFTER ?PM 

GOING TO THE ORANGE BOWL? I HAVE A 1 WAY PLANE TICK. 4 SALE. JAN 9 FROM MIAMI TO WASHINGTON/SALT. VERY CHEAP! CALL 1511. 
FULL STEREO Sony CD Player, Nakamichi Cassete Deck. Denon Receiver. Equalizer, B&W Speakers. Purchased new-$2100.00 Your Price -$1000.00 Compaq Deskpro 286 (1988)with math coprocessor chip. Purhased new -$3850.00 Your Price -$2400.00 Call Mike at 277·7441 
RED 4·DOOR 1980 HONDA ACCORD. CALL 3619. 
PERSONALS 
ORANGE BOWL FLIGHTS CALL 1-800-?DOMERS 
Chicago -$295 Cincinnati · $245 Cleveland-$311 Dallas · $320 Denver · $351 Detroit · $280 Louisville -$245 Philadelphia · $270 New Orleans -$200 LaGuardia· $310 Boston · $328 Pittsburgh -$320 Los Angeles -$440 

CALL 1-800·7DOMERS MOST FLIGHTS 12/29 AND 1/3. SEATS ARE LIMITED. 
Susan: is Kevin there? Or is Susan there? I"m soriy, I must have the wrong number. 
Daytona Beach 
Spring'90 

!
Just do it! 
$239 complete 
xl195 Shane x1874 jeff or Ken 284·4407 jennifer 

ADOPTION, A LOVING ALTERNATIVE. 81 L ALUM WISHES TO ADOPT AN INFANT. LOVING HOME, CERTIFIED TO ADOPT, EXPENSES PAID. CAN BE CONFIDENTIAL OR OPEN. IF YOU OR SOMEONE YOU IS CONSIDERING ADOPTION, CALL MIKE & JEAN COLLECT AT 602­482-0905. 
WHY is the Christmas chain in the fridge, haw haw??? 
ADOPTION -Well·educated couple eager to adopt a baby. Cheerful home full of books. Flexible on sharing information with birthmother about child. Our adoption agency can provide counseling and references. Please call collect 309-827-3135 eves/wknds for profile/photo. James and Hollis. 
BELL YGRAMS, BALLOONS, SINGING TELEGRAMS, 255­3355. 
HIAG! 

KRISTIN APPELGET IS AN OLD HAG TODAY. call her at 4067 for d"tails. (just kidding) 
SENIOR FORMAL THEME CONTEST..... Submit a theme idea and win dinner for 2 at TIPPECANOE! Submit entries to Student Activities (ND/SMC) before Mon. Dec.11 
In response to the Fightin' Fags of room 814 who criticized me for not putting in personals: 
You will all pay--Queen Fag-RJ 
and her two princesses, CP and 
KG-when I get you on the dance 
floor at the PE Formal! 
p.s. I don't care how good your bedtime stories are RJ-you may get CP and JB into bed with you, but you'll never get me!!! 
Love your pal, the Fag 
To the girl who called me and said she was from PG: plese call back, I love your voice, and sense of humor. Underdeveloped 
Hello Sunshine and Mary! 
Uh-hi-ya! Don't starve each other 
to death and by all means don't 
walk out of step! 
Be good and if you can't be good 
be careful, 
loveya, 
Molly 
math majors: physics and looking up answers in the back of books, not to mention corruption in kitchens. I don't know, kind of scary 
A GREAT BIG b-day wish to a 
fabulous gal. Kristin, fire up for 
oranges, sand, and all that 29-3 
will bring. Love, Monica 
Roll TIDE, Roll!!! 
Roll TIDE. Roll!!! 
Roll TIDE, Roll!!! 
Roll TIDE. Roll!!! 
I AM WILLING TO PAY BIG BUCKS FOR AN ORANGE BOWL GA. PLEASE CALL KELLY AT #1342 
Attention Juniors: 
Anyone interested in helping with 
the Cocktail Dance for 
J.P.W. please contact Michelle at 2855 or 
Jen B at 4041 before December 12! 
math majors: studying for finals 
already? even more frightening 
than kitchen corruption 
PHILADELPHIA CLUB CHRISTMAS BUS Sign-ups: Monday Dec. 11 1st floor Lafortune 7:30pm cost:$85 ??? call Shanon 4091 or Mark 288-3133 
SANTA IS COMING 
SANTA IS COMING GET YOUR PICTURE TAKEN WITH SANTA ON OEC.14 
FROM NOON-5PM IN LAFORTUNE SANTA IS COMING 
"Gee guys, I can't walk too well ..." We love you ahyway, K. Happy birthday, Jen, Nimi, and your world-wide fan club. 
THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune 61t Copies, Binding, FAX OPEN EARLY,LATE,&WEEKENDS 
HHP, it's ok to cry you know. let it all out, i'm here for you who made the mess? I didn't make the mess. YOU made the mess 

Celebrate Christmas With The Grinch,.Heat Miser, and Dillon! 
-Friday and Saturday­
7:00 Rudolph the Red-Nosed 
Reindeer 
7:50 A Year Without A Santa Claus 
8:40 Frosty the Snowman 

9:05 Charlie Brown Christmas 
9:30 Life & Adventures of Santa Claus 
10:20 How the Grinch Stole Christmas 

10:45 'Twas the Night Before Christmas 
-Friday­11 :30 Scrooged 
·Saturday· 
11 :30 It's a Wonderful Life 

They're FREE and Christmas wouldn't be the same without them! In Dillon's Party Room. 
Who do you think of when you think of hardworking? Timmy Smith, that's who I think of when I think of hardworking. 
ICEBERG DEBATES Deadline to turn in applications to Hall Presidents is Dec. 1 0 Get involved now! ICEBERG DEBATES 

Get your Christmas Shopping done early ...ride the Windy City Shuttle to Chicago. Tickets available for $10.00 at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
MIDDLE EASTERN DINNER Friday, Dec 8 at Club 23 6pm · all you can eat -$5 

Most Holy Apostle, St. Jude, faithful servant and friend of Jesus, the Church honors and invokes you universally, as the patron of hopeless cases, of things almost despaired of. Pray for me, I am so helpless and alone. Make use of that particular privilege given to you, to bring visible and speedy help where help is almost despaired of. Come to my assistance in this great need that I may receive the consolation and help of heaven in all my necessities, tribulations, and sufferings, particularly-(make request) and that I may praise God with you and all the elect forever. I promise, Oblessed St. Jude, to be ever mindful of this great favor, to always honor you as my special and powerful patron, and to grate­fully encourage devotion to you. Amen. 
SENIORS~ 
SENIORS SENIORS... 

The Senior Class is sponsoring a trip to Chicago on Sun. Dec. 10 to see ''The Nutcracker." Tickets cost 
$32.50 and may be purchased in the Class Office from 3-5 p.m. any day this week. 
Buy Observer Classifieds! People will get the message. 
ADOPTION Doctor & artist. happily married, warm, seek wh.ite newborn to love <;ind 'Cherish. Legal, confidential. Please calt Hanna & Mark collect (212) 864­5512 
SENIORS 
''THE NUTCRACKER"" 
DEC. 10 IN CHICAGO 
JUST DO IT!!! 
NEEDING RIDE HOME FOR XMAS? Buffalo Club Bus is looking for riders from Rochester and Buffalo area. For info call Tom x3368 or Sue x4179 now. 
it's 4 a.m. what is a math major doing? sleeping. others are Observing. 
HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY JOHN!!!!!! 
It's about time, right? You deserve to celebrate .... Lots O'Love, 
Catherine 
....Pin CLUB.... The Pitt Club will be running a Christmas bus . Further Information next week in these personals! Questions: Kevin 288-4420 Steve 1177 ....Pin CLUB.... 
CR­I'M DESPERATE-NEED AWESOME GIFT FOR DANCE THIS WEEKEND. ANY IDEAS? 
RH 
RH­TRY A LIVE DE CORA TEO CHRISTMAS TREE FROM THE COUNTRY HARVESTER. THEY'RE GREAT!! 
CR 
MERRY CHRISTMAS, OSCAR! GOOD LUCK ON YOUR PROJECTS. I LUV U 70271 
TO MY FAVORITE PHILO STUDENT: 
·.YOU COOK A MEAN SPAGHETII! NEXT TIME DINNER'S AT MY HOUSE. ARE THERE ANY MORE GRADES YOU'D LIKE ME TO "LOOK OVER""? YOUR LOVING T.A.. AL 
..Diane Withum.. Merry Christmas! -Your Secret Santa 
Joe DiMaria. BAE Congratulations on your first job offer. Soon you'll be a big accountant in Boston. And to think, I knew you when you were just a junior doing the goofiest man imitation. Bubba you, K 
Want to get published? Give any poems, fiction, essays, letters, etc. 
to NO's new literary journal. Send any submission to 218 Zahm or drop them off anytime. 
Reef, a cucumber would be a bit 
much! Perhaps a pinky toe or a small carrot! 
I don't know. We'll have to wait and see!!! 

Friday, December 8, 1989
page 14 The Observer 
,. 
Ewing would rather see Knicks on top than see himself among greats 
(AI'J-I'atrick Ewing seems to rnalize that he's ready to be mentioned in the same breath with Magic Johnson and Mir.hael Jordan and Larry Bird. 
For four years, Ewing has politely rPplied to questions about his performances with lines like ''I'm just trying to help the New York Knieks win games" and "I just want to be the best player I can be." 
Now the 7-foot center who dominated college basketball in the early 1980s has a chance to be the NBA's first Most Valuable Player in the 1990s. 
And Ewing seems to know it. "Winning the MVP is a goal of mine," he says. "But winning a championship still comes first. But that's not just true of
-
me. Magic Johnson and Michael 
Jordan both would say the 
same thing." 
Ewing said he doesn't mind talking about an individual goal because he believes he can't win the MVP unless the Knicks con­tinue as a winning team in the Atlantic Division. 
''I'm playing well in part be­cause the team is playing well," lw said. 
Ewing has been a solid, but seldom spectacular. player in his first four years, averaging from 20.0 to 22.7 points and from 8-9 rebounds each sea­son. 
This year. he has been regu­larly spectacular, defeating any defense the opposition puts in front of him. lie trails only Jordan in the NBA scoring 
-
race, averaging 29 points to Jordan's 32. 
"If he keeps playing like this, we're playing in June," team­mate Trent Tucker said, refer­ring to the NBA Finals. 
Last season. Ewing scored 20 or more points 52 times in 80 games. In his first 18 games this season. he's been held un-
Wolfpack roll 
126-77 over 


Duquesne 
HAI.EIGII, N.C. lAP)-Chris Corchiani and Brian lloward scored six points apiece in a 22-0 first-half run that pow­ered 19th-ranked North Carolina State to a 126-77 vie­tory over Duquesne on Thursday night. 
Duquesne trailed 12-10 after a follow shot by Shawn Kelly before the 22-0 burst. which in­cluded four points apiece by Mickey llinnant and freshman Bryant Feggins, broke the game open. 
Hodney Monroe scored 22 points and Feggins had 20 as North Carolina State placed six players in double ligures. Tom Gugliotta added 18, Corchiani 15, lloward 13 and llinnant 10 for the Wolfpack (6-1 ), which won its fifth straight. Mark Stevenson led the Dukes ( 1-2) with 27. 
North Carolina State built a 54-22 lead on a layup by Gugliotta with 3:25 left in the first half and it was 60-31 at halftime. 
Brian Anselmino seored 12 points for Duquesne while Clayton Adams and Tony Petrarea each had 10. 

EXQ!i§.§. P!i§.§.~OF NOlANA NCORPORATEO  
<!>  
RESUMES TYPESET AND PRINTED I  
325 OIXIEWAY NORTH • SOUTH BEND (219) 277-3355 215 S. 11TH STREET • NILES f6161 684-2080  

der 20 only once, scoring 30 or more eight times and 40 or more three times. 
"A machine, just a machine," Golden State rookie Sarunas Marciulionis said after Ewing had 44 points and 24 rebounds against the Warriors on Nov. 
29. "Never have I seen some­thing like that." 
"If there's any way to stop me, I'm not telling," Ewing said. 
Last season, as Ewing re­ceived increased defensive at­tention as his scoring ability improved. he usually responded to double-teams by passing the ball back outside. This year, Coach Stu Jackson said, Ewing is still passing in that situation, but he also has learned to spin quickly away from the pressure and hit baseline shots. 

"He's passing out much, much, much more than he has in the past, but his teammates have made the commitment to get him the ball more because they know they'll get it back if he's double-teamed and can't get a shot off," Jackson said. "But he's definitely getting the ball more and getting more shots. Our game plan is to get Patrick the ball. That's always our game plan. ALWAYS!" 
Consequently, his shots per game have increased from 15 to 20. 
''I'm trying to turn and move quick moves more, and if it's not there, I'll pass it out," Ewing said. "That's especially true in the fourth quarter when we're trying to make things happen and the pace. picks up for everyone. I have to try to defeat the double-teams in dif­ferent ways." · 
Philadelphia center Mike Gminski, who guarded Ewing for most of the game as he scored 32 points in New York's 11 0-1 03 victory on Tuesday, said he noticed the difference. 
"lie's on quite a roll," Gminski said. "He seems to be shooting that turnaround jumper on the baseline very well. That negates the double­team when he's able to do it so quickly. They're going to him a lot and he seems to be gaining confidence." 
Ewing has been especially ef­fective recently. On a four-game road trip, he averaged 35.3 points, 12.8 rebounds and made 64.6 percent of his 82 field-goal attempts. He was named the NBA Player of the Week last week and Player of the Month for November. 
But Ewing believes it's his re­bounding that has to improve in order for him to attract MVP attention. 
His 24 rebounds against the Warriors -no Golden State player had more than live ­were the most by a Knicks player since 1973 and helped push Ewing to 10 rebounds per game. His career best is 9.3 last season. 
With rebounding specialist Charles Oakley on the team, Ewing probably won't climb much higher than that. 
But he's improved other aspects of his game, increasing his free-throw percentage from 
72.8 for his career to 84 per­cent this season and moving up to second in the NBA in blocked shots with almost 3 1/2 per game. 
"You have to realize what he does to the opposition's offense when he's not out there," Jackson said. "People's eyes light up because the intimida­tion factor is not there." 
Ewing also has come a way in four years in his rela­tionship with the media, a con­sideration since it's a group that votes for MVP. He's 
Please don't look at this­
~O[R1®1TO~ 


doesn't like attention! 
Happy 20th, Babe! 
Love, K, C, M and J 



NOTRE DAME PARENTS 
HAVE YOUR SON OR DAUGHTER LIVE IN A CONDOMINIUM WHILE AT SCHOOL *1 mile from Notre Dame *New Construction *Tax Abatement *Security Systems *A Profitable Investment *Many Tax Benefits 
call TARIPP DEVELOPMENT CORP. Contact Christopher Matteo 
(219) 232-8256 

generally more giving of his hurt," Ewing said. "This is the time after games and occasion­media capital of the world." ally drops a joke or a few With Ewing in the middle, smiles into the conversation. New York also is re-emerging 
"Playing in New York doesn't as a basketball capital. 

Sunday, 10 December Moreau Seminary Chapel 7:30 PM 
with the 

The Notre Dame Liturgical Choirs and Brass Works by Palestrina, Cuerruo, Handtf, Dislftr, and Brillttl 

Friday, December 8, 1989 The Observer page 15 

BAKER'S BIKE SHOP INC. fi~:ll!'ll~l~l BICYCLES •EXERCISERS ..BMX HEAVQUARTERS SALES-SERVICE-PftRTS-ACCESSORIES WINTER STORAGE CLOSED SUNDAY & MONDAY TUESDAY 10 AM-7 PMAVAILABLE WEDNESDAY-SATURDAY 10 AM-5:30PM ROSELAND MISHAWAKA 277-8866 259-4862 135 DIXIE WAYS. 3835 LWE  

NFL to rule on 'bounty' charges against Ryan 
IHVING, Texas (AP) -NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue, hoping to defuse a tense situa­tion between Dallas and Philadelphia, is expected to rule Friday on bounty charges by Cowboys coach Jimmy Johnson 
against  the  Eagles'  Buddy  
Hyan.  
In the  most recent develop­ 

ment, Cowboys kicker Luis Zendejas and Eagles assistant coach AI Hoberts say they've retained lawyers over a tape recording Zendejas says he has of a conversation with Hoberts. 
On the tape. Zendejas says, Hoberts pleads with him not to tell the NFL he warned Zendejas about Eagles' at­tempts to knock him out of a Thanksgiving game between the teams. After the first meeting between, Johnson accused Hyan of offering a bounty to knock Zendejas and quarterback Troy Aikman from the game. 
"We expect to make a state­ment on the situation on Friday," Joe Browne, the league's director of communi­cations, said Thursday. A spokesman for the Cowboys said the team would have no comment because the league is handling the situation. 
The Eagles play the Cowboys on Sunday at Veterans Stadium. 
Zendejas, a former Eagle, said Wednesday that Eagles' punter John Teltschik tipped him about the bounty the night before the Thanksgiving game, which the Eagles won 27-0. 
After the game, Johnson said Ryan had offered a bounty to his players to knock Zendejas and Aikman out of the game. 
• 


0 1'HI5 CHRIS1MA5
0 0 
0 

PoN'-r ])RlN I( AtJD Pf\iV~
0 

0 0 (~ S~J) 
0 0 • 
0 0 ~ns-tead ... 
0 
• 0 
--rr•E oNE ol\lf 
0
0 0
0 






---· 

0 0 0 "fhe Ndre. ])arne. ch8pte~ of 
0 

0 ~c.a4\JS is SponSortn-9 S 
0 
0

• 0 1l_.j ~~ ~~nfor 
Chri.shnas. We 'fe asl"n.q stu~
0 

-to '!9n a ribbm ple~fnq ~ 0 to dril'\lt and drive o'lt!f -t~ 
0 
0 

hOlidays. "1l1e. ribbon)OUS!9n will be puf on a Christmas ~ on fie.ldhouse Mall. 
Sl€7N-UPS~ -""'ndaf-Wei:J~ ~~ 11-fh-l!+h. at dinner ND~ and S"vnf Dl NIN6 JfAU.S 
'It SMOfl£S in front of .free. Gh 1l4UtSDA.'/b P-M· 
~···························································································· 
Ryan called the charge ridicu­lous. 
Zendejas said he taped a phone conversation with 
Hoberts  two  days  after  the  
game.  .  
"When  I  talked  with  AI  

Hoberts on the phone, he said, 'Luis, I'm 47 years old, I still want to keep coaching in the league and this and that, and why don't you just say I told you that if you go down and make a tackle we're going to take you out, or something like that,"' Zendejas said. 
"I said, 'I can't say that."' 
Roberts on Wednesday denied he warned Zendejas of any bounties and said he will sue Zendejas if he plays the taped conversation. He confirmed, however, that he talked with Zendejas twice on the phone after the game. 
He said Zendejas asked him why the Eagles went after him. 
"He said, 'I was alerted the night before,' and I said, 'That's ... talk, we do that all the time, we always say we are going after you, we try to intimidate before, after and during the game that we're going to kick your butt. Luis is over-sensitive,'" Roberts said. 
"No one said we're going to knock out Luis and get $500 or $200," he said. "It makes me look bad. As long as he drags me through, they'll say, That's the guy involved in the Luis Zendejas deal.'" 
Zendejas declined to turn over the tape to the league. 
"But if the tape happens to get lost, and somebody happens to get it on a TV station, then it's out of my control," he said. 

LAS VEGAS (AP)-"No mas" turned out to have been the right answer after all. Too bad it took nine years to learn why. 
When Sugar Ray Leonard and Roberto Duran met the first time, in Montreal in June 1980, Leonard's wife, Juanita, was in tears by the third round and had passed out altogether by the eighth round of a relentless fight made all the more memo­rable by its malevolence. 
When Sugar Ray Leonard and Roberto Duran met the second time, in New Orleans in November 1980, it was Duran's backers who suffered, humili­ated by Leonard's cruel taunt­ing and flashy antics, but above all, by their hero's lack of a stomach for further combat and his brief concession speech. 
"No mas,'' Duran, who had 
never quit anything before, said 
with 16 seconds left in the 
eighth round of that one. "No 
mas." 


Z!ETO ~ T!HJ!E 
!HJ!Eill7{...())!NJ~ fLOW® ~fl 
Friday night:**1 O:OQ .. 1:00 
'~ 
And out of that mysterious beginning came Thursday night's convincing end. "No mas" indeed. They might have left well enough alone. 
Leonard threw 150 fewer punches-438 vs. 588-and landed almost three times as many -227 vs. 84. 
He smiled and danced, strut­ted and shuffled, and tantaliz­ingly bobbed his chin out like the Adam's apple of a nervous suitor. He faked winding bolo punches with his right hand and followed most with a stinging left lead. He wound up one time and actually delivered a looping uppercut. 
If he failed to hurt Duran ­again -he left him both frus­trated and bewildered -again. 
And if it is of any consolation to Juanita -the couple has since separated amicably -she could have been fast asleep, with few concerns, by the eighth round of this one. The only way Thursday night's pa­trons avoided a similar fate was by booing loudly and lustily, starting with the lack of contact at the start and finish­ing with the lack of drama at the finish. 
"I think this is the result of Hoberto Duran being 38 years old,'' Leonard, a relative youngster at 33, said almost apologetically. "He is a veteran, however, and he did come to fight." 
"The referee didn't let me do nothing," he complained. "Whenever we went into a clinch, he'd push me away. he wouldn't let me fight. I don't thnk Leonard beat me. As the rounds went by, I was hitting him. 
"I never felt like an old fighter. My arms were a little tight, but not old,'' Duran con­tinued. "Leonard didn't come to fight. He came to run." 

[Sometimes it takes an Army to pay back your college loan. Paying back your college loan can be a long, uphill battle. But the Army's Loan Repayment Program makes it easy. Each year you serve as asoldier, lhe Army will reduce your college debt by 1/3 or $1,500, whichever amount is greater. So after serving just 3 years, your college loan will be completely paid off. You're eligible for this program with a National Direct Student Loan or a Guaranteed Student Loan or a Federally Insured Student Loan made after October 1, 1975. And the loan can't be in default And just because you've left college, don't think you'll stop learning in the Army. Our skill training offers a wealth of valuable high-tech, career oriented skills. Call your local Army Recruiter to find out more. 
SGT. Larry Holloway Army Recruiting Station 125 S. Hill Street South Bend 234-4187 
ARMY. 
BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 

page 16 The Observer Friday, December 8, 1989 
Davis, Hernandez, O'Brien lead way in free agent moves 
NASIIVILLE. Tenn. (AP) ­Storm Davis. Pete O'Brien and Keith Ilernandez led another now of free agents to find new teams Thursday. and the San Diego Padres indicated their Cy Young Award winner might be next. 
One day after the official end of baseball's winter meetings, several teams were still hard at work. Kansas City lured Davis from Oakland, Cleveland signed Hernandez. Montreal got Oil Can Boyd and Detroit acquired I.loyd Moseby. bringing to 15 the number of free agents who changed elubs at the meetings. 
The Chicago Cubs sent Paul Kilgus to Toronto for Jose Nunez in the only trade of the day. DPals were down at these meetings, mostly because there is no longer a deadline to make 
them.  although  Tim  Leary.  
Lance  McCullers  and  others  
could move soon.  

Wlwre Mark. Davis winds up is still open to speculation. But tlwnJ was talk San Diego may not try to bring him back. 
"Tiw Padres told me that if I signed with them, they would not ro-sign Mark Davis," re­liever Craig Lefferts said. 
Lnfferts and the Padres agrned on a three-year, $5.35 million contract shortly bfJfore 4 a.m. EDT Thursday. Lefferts came to Nashville this week and, with agent Steve Comte, finished business with Padres manager and vice president Jack McKeon in the wee hours. 
"Jack McKeon reiterated to my agent that if the Padres got me, they would not try to re­sign Davis," Lefferts said. 
Whether that was a ploy to get Lefferts, only McKeon knows. But he insisted that Lefferts. who had a career-high 20 SliVfJS last season with San Frandsco, would be his stop­per. 
Davis rejected the Padres' latest otTer for a four-year con­tract worth about $12 million. 
lie is seeking a five-year pact 
:md the New York Yankees and 
Philadelphia apparently are 
willing to give it to him. 
The other Davis, Storm, made vut well. Kansas City's three­
year. $6 million offer induced 
him to leave Oakland and his 
shift may help the Royals catch 
the World Series winners in the 
American League West. 
Davis, 28 this month. was 19­
7 despite a 4.36 earned run av­
erage. lie is 92-62 in eight sea­
sons. 
"We believe we now have 
depth in our starting pitching 
that we have not had in a num­
ber of years." Hoyals manager 
John Wathan said. "We now 
have as much depth on our 
starting staff as any team in 
baseball." 
Davis became unhappy when his scheduled start in the World Series was scratched by Manager Tony La Hussa be­cause of the layoff caused by the narthquake. 
Davis joinnd Dave Parker and Tony Phillips as free agents to leave Oakland since the season ended, although the Athletics seer111~d close to re-signing Ken Phelps to fill Parker's role as designated hittnr. San Francisco, the National League champion, has also lost three free agents -Lefferts. Ken Oberkfell and Candy Maldonado. 
0' Brien. 31. left Cleveland for a four-year contract with Seattle worth about $7.4 mil­lion. He hit .259 with 12 homers and 55 HB!s in his only season with the Indians and told the team he would not be back. 
O'Brien, a lifetime .271 hitter in five seasons. is one of the best-fielding first basemen in baseball, although he lacks the power other plyers at the posi­tion can produce. 
"I would like to take this time to thank our new owner. Jeff Smulyan. for making our effort 
in the free-agent market possi­
ble," general manager Woody 
Woodward said. "This is truly 
the beginning of a new era for 
the Seattle Mariners." 
Hernandez. 36, signed a two­year contract with Cleveland for $:~ million guaranteed plus $1 million in incentives. lie is a five-time All-Star first baseman who has been hurt for two 
years, batting just .233 in 75 games last season. 
"We know he won't play as many games as he has in the past. but he can help us on the field and with his leadership," Indians manager John McNamara said. 
The Expos aren't sure what to expect from Boyd. Once on the verge of becoming one of baseball's better young pitch­ers. Boyd. 30. has worked sparingly tho past three sea­sons with Boston because of blood clots in his right shoul­der. 
Still. the Expos recently lost free-agent pitchers Mark Langston. Pascual Perez and Bryn Smith and need someone for their rotation. 
"Basically, it all depends on his physical condition. After a lot of discussion, we thought we'd take a chance on him bouncing back." Montreal gen­eral manager Dave Dombrowski said. 
Boyd agreed to a one-year contract for a guarantee of $350,000, with another $650,000 in incentives if he can stay healthy and be productive. 
Moseby, 30, and the Tigers agreed on a two-year contract. He hit .282 with 26 homers and 96 RB!s for Toronto in 1987. but has been in a two-year slump. 




RUSSIA 
Intercollegiate Tour , July 1990 Led by Prof. James Butterfield (PHd, Notre Dame) For information contact: Western Michigan a. Office of International Affairs Kalamazoo, Ml 49008 Tel. toll free 1-800-876-3951 

MAlL BOXES ETC.­
On State Route 23, Next to the Subway Phone (219) 277-MATI. FAX (219) 277-7679 

Friday, December 8, 1989 The Observer 
Snow takes home Lombardi Award 
NO's Zorich, USC's Ryan, Colorado's McGhee finalists 
HOUSTON (AP) -Michigan State linebacker Percy Snow earned his second honor of.the week when he was presented the Lombardi Award on Thursday night as the nation's top collegiate lineman. 
Snow, who holds the school record of 164 tackles in a sea­son, won the Butkus Award on Tuesday as the nation's top linebacker. 
Snow, 6-foot-3 and 240 pounds, beat out Colorado linebacker Kanavis McGhee {6­
5. 240) and two defensive line­men, Southern California tackle Tim Ryan (6-5, 260) and Notre Dame nose guard Chris Zorich (6-1' 268). 
The award is a memorial to Vince Lombardi. former coach of the Green Bay Packers and Washington Redskins, who died of cancer in 1970. The annual dinner benefits the American Cancer Society. 
''I'm kind of surprised I got this far," Snow said. "There were some really outstanding 

Percy Snow 
athletes selected for this honor." 
Snow has 464 career tackles, the second Spartan to record 400 stops. 
"I started out playing foot­ball just wanting to be success­ful," Snow said. "I saw a light at the end of the tunnel. I rec­ognized that I had some talent and I just tried to make the best of it." 
Snow has 163 tackles this season, one short of the school record he set last year. He also has three interceptions and two blocked field goals. 


Michigan will play Hawaii in the Aloha Bowl. 
Ryan recorded 19 sacks this season as Southern Cal won the Pacific-10 title and the right to face Michigan in the Rose Bowl. He had 96 tackles, three forced fumbles and one recovered fumble. 
Zorich was a key to an Irish defense that allowed 15 points a game en route to a 11-1 record and a meeting with McGhee and top-ranked Colorado in the Orange Bowl. 
McGhee teamed with fellow 
outside linebacker Alfred Williams in leading the Buffaloes to an 11-0 season. He has 199 career tackles and 10 career sacks. 
Snow and Ryan are seniors, McGhee and Zorich juniors. 
Ohio State linebacker Jim Stillwagon won the first Lombardi Award in 1970. Auburn's Tracy Rocker won last year. 

Andrew McCloskey 
Notre Dame nose guard Chris Zorich, who has recorded 92 total tackles and three-and-a-half sacks for the Irish, as well as USC's Tim Ryan and Colorado's Kanavis McGhee were beaten out by Michigan State linebacker Percy Snow for the Lombardi Award. 

(···················:
~ ~ 
~ The international management consulting firm ~ 
~ McKinsey & Company, Inc. 
~ is now accepting resumes for its two-year ~ Business Analyst Program. ~ If you possess the following qualifications: 
~ • Superior academic performance ~ (any major accepted, minimum GPA of 3.5) ~ • Proven leadership potential 
• Relevant summer/part-time work experience iC • Refined analytical and communication skills iC • Interest in graduate business school 
t and are interested in a career in consulting­iC please send your resume, transcript, and iC SAT/GMAT scores by December 22, 1989, to: 
iC 
iC

iC Manager of Professional Support Services ~ McKinsey &Company, Inc. ~ Suite 2700, Two First National Plaza ~ Chicago, Illinois 60603 
~ 
~ 

~ For additional information on McKinsey & ~ Company and our Business Analyst Program, " please refer to your Placement Center ~ Library, or write to the above address 
~ 
~ 
t 
t 
'"?' 

~ 
~ 
~ ~ ~ 
~ 

t ~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
'"" 
~ ~ 
Tillmon helps Hoyas over 



N. Carolina 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP) -Mark Tillmon sco.red 27 points Thursday night to lead No. 3 Georgetown to a 93-81 victory over No. 17 North Carolina and end the inaugural Atlantic Coast Conference-Big East Challenge at 4-4. 
The Hoyas ( 4-0) had to win to get the Big East even after Virginia beat Villanova 73-65 in the first game of the double­header at the Meadowlands. 
The game was the third be­tween long-time friends and ri­val coaches John Thompson and Dean Smith and it was Thompson's first victory against Smith. It also was the first meeting since the Tar Heels beat Georgetown 63-62 in the 1982 NCAA championship game in New Orleans on Michael Jordan's jumper. 
Georgetown held a comfort­able lead throughout the sec­ond half and the Tar Heels (4­
3) never got clo.ser than five points in the final five minutes. 
Tillmon, who made 11 of 17 shots, nailed a 3-pointer to give the Hoyas a 6 7-5 7 lead with 
10:30 to play. North Carolina was able to stay within striking distance and got to 80-75 with 
2:46 left on a layup by George Lynch. 
St. Michael•s Ukrainicm Byzantine Catholic Cla..-c:b 712 E. Lawrence St .. Mishawaka 
259-7173 
Come worship with us... Sunday Divine Liturgy 9 AM 

~P---------~
'"" ROCCO'S i( HAIRSTYLING FOR ~ MEN
__I Wl'JM~N 
~ 

iC ~ 
~ 
~M. 
~ 
531 N. Michigan St. 

k ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥ iC ._.-P-hoiiiineiilii2iiii13111111~7__.
-

.... ~-­
page 18 The Observer 
Friday, December 8, 1989 



Hoops 
continued from page 20 
In l'ow!dl's absence, 6-6 ju­nior Tyrone Baldwin (13.5 points) will bP countnd on to pick up the slack inside. Mad bombnr Mark 1\nglavar, has made only one field goal inside the three-point stripe this year, but has connected on t 3 out of 27 shots from beyond, will try to burn tlw Irish from outside. 
Notre Damn has won 12 

straight against Marquette, 
traditionally relying on their 
size and stnmgth to scorn in­
side. The Irish have a shortage 
depth insidf! this year. howevnr. 
and the loss of Kevin Ellery to 
an ankln injury will force 6-11 
sophomore Keith Tower to 
come in ofT tlw bench and sup­
port senior starters Keith 
Hobinson and Scott Paddock. 
"I think the problem (in Tunsday's H1-72 Irish loss to Indiana) was that we didn't get a lot of inside scoring," Tower said. "I think Keith Hobinson and I will have to pkk up the slack by scoring with our backs to the basket. because we are biggN than Marquette inside." 
The Notre Damn backcourt 

features sophomores Elmer 
Bennett and Daimon Sweet, 
who will start together for the 
first time in their earners. Co­
captains Joe Fredrick (10.0 
ppg) and .Iamere Jackson are 
sum to see plenty of action in 
reserve roles, however. 
"I don't b!'lieve that being in 

the starting lineup changes my 
role any. I just have to go out 
and do my job description. The 

,. 
Elmer Bennett 
only thing this might do is give me a little more time to hnlp the tnam," Sweet said. 
Junior assist leader Tim SingiNon, Hobinson (15.7 ppg, 
5.7 rpg), and Paddock round out the starting lineup for the Irish. Tower and 6-7 freshman Monty Williams, who is playing with a r.onfid1-mcn which sur­passes his years, will also see a lot of time off the bench. 
"W!! think we're dneper than they are," Tower said. "1\nd we'II try to use our depth to wear them down. We have to make them play a more physical game to bn successful." 
"Marquette s!wms to be get­ting the mileage out of the peo­ple inside that mwd to do things for them." Phelps said. "I think 1\nglavar has got the potfmtial to shoot when they need those 
points, and Tony Smith pre­sents a challenge at point guard. 
"The place (Bradley Center) will be excited about Notre Dame coming to town, and I think the Marquette-Notre Dame games are always excit­ing. We'll have our hands full with them on Saturday." 



Irish swimmers prepare for Belles 
NO's Wood, Williams set to go for NCAA qualifying time 
By JANICE ARCHER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. who traditionally meet in the social or academic awnas, will face each other in a swim meet this Saturday. The women's swim team will take on the Belles of St. Mary's in the Holfs Aquatic Center at 2 p.m. 
The Irish are returning horne after a superb performance last weekend in the third annual National Catholic Championships in Fordham. New York. The team placed third in th(! 14-team field with 5H3 points, behind winner Villanova and second-place Boston College. 
"I'm very proud of our swimmers," Irish head coach Tim Welsh said. "This smnester's intense training was gean~d toward the national meet. 
Now, the team IS happy to be home. "It's a terrific opportu­nity to race once more before exams," Welsh said of Saturday's meet. "Everyone on the tnarn will be racing against St. Mary's. 
Welsh is using a different method of choosing swimmers 
f}tr person quad ( 4 people per roam) trtple. double orSingle available on request 

AmericanTravel 
llemberotlheAmeiD:IISodalyotTmveiAaenls 
andthaAmarlcanMarketJngAssn. couegeBowtandAJumnJSpecJatJsts 




Irish 
continued from page 20 the end of last season. McGraw expects the Warriors to finish somewhere in the middle of the park this year. "They're a good team and could do better," McGraw said. "But Notre Dame and Loyola definitely are the two best teams in tht\ conference." In Notre Dame's last contest. the Irish rallied from a six­point halftime deficit to upend the Hoosiers. Lisa Kuhns led Notre Dame with 19 points, 
Hockey 
continued from page 20 
other Notre Dame career mark. The comparisons with last 
year are staggering. The Irish have 69 goals compared to just ;{8 a year ago and 181 total points compared to only 98 last season. This year's Notre Dame squad averages 3.72 goals against. down over a goal from 
4.96 last year. 
The Irish have plenty of bal­ance and consistency in the scoring columns. As a team, Notre Dame has scored 23 goals in the first period, 22 in the second and 23 in the third. 
Nine individuals have tallied for specific events, one he calls "rotating away to win." This method allows him to move swimmers into events they are not normally chosen to swim. 

By doing this, the Irish hope to stay fresh and perform as well as they did in Fordham. Swimming in events they are not accustomed to will provide the women with a good oppor­tunity to have new perspectives. 
"It's a very good chance for them to swim different races," Welsh said. 
Saturday's meet will provide another important opportunity for the Irish, giving the team is a chance to be reunited before the semester's end. Because of the National Catholic Championships rules, only 19 women could travel to Fordham. The smaller group returns for a true team effort, one Welsh believes to be cru­cial. 

The meet against Saint Mary's will be a special one for junior Becky Wood and fresh­man Tanya Williams. They will be swimming in their primary events, Wood in the 200-yard breast stroke and Williams in the 400-yard medley relay. Both girls have the opportunity to qualify for the NC/\1\ Championships, to be held in March. 
"It's very unusual for anyone to qualify so early in the sea­son," Welsh said. "This gives us a jump on the competition, for we can prepare and train dur­ing the spring semester." 
Ceabllt..p Authentic Szechuan, Mand.-ln & Hunan Cuisine 









ORANGE BOWL 
TRAVEL PACKAGE INCLUDES GAME TICKET! 
See the Fighting Irish BEAT the Colorado Buffs!

s598 
Your complete travel/game package includes all of these features: 
0 Roundtrip airfare from Chicago via Eastern Airlines. departing 
December 31 and returning January 2, other dates available 0 Deluxe accommodations at a Miami Dadeland Marriott Hotel 0 Alamo rental car with unlimited free mileage. Gas. tax. insurance 
extra. Minimum age requirements apply. Airport transfers available. 0 ORANGE BOWL GAME TICKET-seat location subject to availability 0 Hotel and airline taxes included 
For 3 shonng. 5648 wch. 2 shonng. 5698 eoch. smgle. S198 Space IS lim1ted at these pnces ona ~ available an 
oflf'l·come. flfSI·'>efYed basis Slm1Jor horer moy be subS11tutea Standard travel pockoge terms apply 

Karen Hobinson scored 16 and 
Krissi Davis added 14. 
Indiana had taken the lead by going on a 14-2 run at thn end of the half, while Notrn Damn startnrs Davis, Hobinson and Sara Liebscher all wern on the bench. Davis and Li£!bsdwr were in foul trouble. while Robinson was nursing an ankle injury. 
Notre Dame responded with a spurt of its own, scoring 10 unanswered points to open the second half. 
"Indiana had a 1-3-1 zone, and we made some turnovers," McGraw said of the first-half 

situation. "We rnally camn out 
ol' tlw loek!1r room very wPII. 
We madn our shots and at­
tacknd tlwir zone very wPII." 
Kuhns IPd tlw Irish scoring attack by shooting 5-ol'-7 from thrnn-point range. I h•r 19-point game raisnd tlw snnior guard's scoring avPrage to 12.3 points per ganw. 
Hobinson leads thn Irish with 15 points pnr gamn. 1\ pair of sophomores, cnntnr Margan•t Nowlin and forward Comalita llaysbPrt, also are scoring in doubln figures with 12.H and 
11.S points a game, rnspnc­tively. 
The Irish will take three weeks off after the games with Ferris State. Then comes the biggest test of the season, a 
contest with highly-touted 
Wisconsin Dec. 28 in the Bank 
One Badger Showdown. 
"We would like to keep it 
rolling so we can feel b!'tter 
about ourselves going into that 
tourney," Schafer said. "We 
don't want to look too far back 
or too far ahead. That will keep 
us from getting too impressed 
or too depressed with our our­
selves." 
at least live goals, topped by Dave Bankoske with 14 and Tim Kuehl with 10. Kuehl, Bankoske and Curtis Janicke are in double ligures with as­sists. 

Friday, December 8, 1989 
CAMPUS 

Friday 
5 p.m. Art. "New Faces," Isis Gallery. 7 p.m. Madrigal dinner, Saint Mary's, Regina Hall, North Lounge. 
Saturday 
2 p.m. Women's swimming, ND vs. Saint Mary's, Rolfs Aquatic Center. 7 p.m. Madrigal dinner, Saint Mary's, Regina Hall, North Lounge. 7 p.m. Shenanigan's Christmas Concert, Washington Hall. 7:30p.m. Hockey vs. Perris State, JACC. 
8:30 p.m. Band, "Super Combo Pan Americano," Theodore's. 
Sunday 
2 p.m. Wrestling vs. Illinois State, JACC. 
MENUS 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Baked Cod Sesame Meatloaf Beef Pot Pie Cheese & Deluxe Pizza Cheese Stuffed Pepper Broccoli Cheese Omelette Tangy Grilled Chicken Deli Bar 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
II'S SPID£R PIE.. 'fOO CAN

EWW.' PIC.~( OVT "114£. BIG LEGS Atoll) GI'J£. "114tM. n:> '(OUR. DA.D IF 1\.\EfR.£. TOO \\MR'( FClR '(OU. 
WILBUR AND WENDEL 
The Observer page 19 
CROSSWORD 
rthe Many Jldventures ofWinnie tfie Poofi 10:10 
Cushing Auditorium $2.00 


ACROSS 
1 Lethargy 7 Silent screen's 
Navarro et al. 13 Free 14 Structure 16 On in years 17 Relate 18 Valley in NW 
Wyo. 20 Obtain 21--, amas, 
a mat 22 Seine feeder 23 Punjabi 
potentate 24 Hussein's queen 26 Mirth 
27 "La Belle Dame Sans-": Keats 
28 Journalized 30 Middle Eastern 
country 31 Consequently 32 Being, in 
Barcelona 33 Save 36 Street, in 
Stuttgart 40 Irregular 41 Roman 
statesman 43 Dingle 44 Pole 45 Ritzy 46 Calm, in Caen 47 Dutch commune 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

poesy 
12 Word with fiction or Christian 
1856-1920 
BILL WATTERSON 
48 Major seaport in Va. 
52 Type of coal 
54 Proposal in the Gary Hart campaign 
55 Furniture finisher, at times 
56 Frigidity 
57 Composer Sir Edward and family 
58 Bear witness 
DOWN 
1 Sculptural figure of a man used as a column 
2 Codger 3Smell 4 Scores at 
Pebble Beach 5 Capital of Norway 6 English painter 
SirJoshua­7 Rest 8 Dress designer 
Simpson 9 Muck's companion 
~\.\'(, I Bt.LIE'IE W£.'R£ ~lNG TO 1-W.JE A. QIJIET DINI'lER 
ttR. 0\'IIC.E. 
JAY HOSLER 

15 Involve 32 Tallinn's locale, 41 Crouches in fear necessarily old style 
42 Serpent19 Hasten 33 Forces back 

45"The­

23 Peruse again 
34 Learned Principle"25 Second 
35 Eire county 
checkup 48 Actress Foch· 37 Withdraws from 
26 Perennial herb 49 Straight: Comb. 
a union 
27 Skilled form craftsman: Abbr. 38 Most sluggish 
50 Taunt29 Former Korean 

39 Soprano roles in 
president 51-days
operas by wonder
30 "-each life Cherubini and some rain ... " Giordano 53 An Afr. republic 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

• 
LOGO CONTEST 
$35 5 Prize for winning T-SHIRT logo 

$115 Prize for winning BOOKLET COVER 
Due in SUB Office by Dec. 13th 
j 

It's a Wonietju[ Life 8:00 
Jl Christmas Story 12:20 
--------~
1""""'"------------------------~-­



Sports
page 20 Friday, December 8, 1989 
ND men's, women's basketball roadtrip to face Marquette 1-2 ND looks to end Irish open MCC play skid against Warriors after victory over IU 
By KEN TYSIAC By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Sports Writer Associate Sports Editor 
Prot£~cting the basketball will be the primary MILWAUKEE -Coming off a come-from­objective of the Notre Dame basketball team behind victory Wednesday night at Indiana, the this Saturday as the Irish travel to Bradley Notre Dame's women's basketball team opens Center to face the Marquette Warriors at 1 p.m its Midwest Collegiate Confnrencn titln defense 
EST. The game will be televised locally by Saturday at Marquette. WNDU-TV, channel 16. Notre Dame (3-ll won the MCC tournament The Irish,l-2, beat themselves with turnovers last season and went on to earn a berth in the this past Tuesday night against Indiana, and Women's National Invitational Tournament. eoaeh Digger Phelps says that such play can't The MCC's newest member. Marquette held a 1­continue if his fast-breaking offensive scheme is 3 record heading into Thursday night's game at to succeed. 
Western Illinois. "If I have to say what our biggest problem Tipoff is set for 2:30 p.m. Because 
was in all three. games, and that includes (an Milwaukee's 18,000-seat Bradley Center will be 84-64 win over) San Francisco, it's that we unavailabln, the game will be held across the can't average 20 turnovers and go out and beat street at the Auditorium. 
people." "I think we should win (the confereneel," said 
The Warriors, coachnd by Kevin O'Neill, are 2-Irish coach Muffet McGraw. "We definitely have 2 on the season after winning a thrilling 75-69 the ability and have just about everybody baek. shootout against Loyola of Chicago on Tuesday We're all improving. If we continue to get night. 6-3 senior guard Tony Smith led the way better, we should be really good by February." for Marquette in that one with a season-high 29 Marquette forward Tammy Shain, a 6-foot 
points. sophomore, entered Thursday's game averag­
Smith, who averages 18.0 points per game ing 13.3 points and six rebounds per game, and leads the Warriors in assists (29), steals (6) leading the Warriors in both categories. and blocked shots (5) will be a big threat on the Foward Heidi Ach, another 6-footer, also has perimeter. Smith will have to be at his best on the Irish concerned. The junior has 13 points Saturday to make up for the possible loss of 6-6 and 3.7 rebounds pN game. junior forward Trevor Powell (12.3 ppg), who "Last year, she was third or fourth in the left the court on crutches Tuesday after injuring country in field goal percentage," said McGraw. 
himself against Loyola. "And she had 18 points against us last year. 
Powell scored 17 and 19 points, respectively She's very big and strong, and she's going to against the Irish in wins at the JACC and create problems." Bradley Center last season, but is doubtful for Marquette will be playing its first ever MCC 
this Saturday's matchup. game since shedding its independent status at 
see IRISH I page 18 see HOOPS I page 18 
~--------------------------------------~ 


ND wrestlers gear up to meet Illinois State 
By MIKE CANZONIERO ranked Iowa who the Irish Sports Writer fac1~ at home. The Notre Dame 
The Notre Dame wrestling team. rated 16th wrestling team opens its in the nation by last week's dual meet season at home AWN poll, matched its this Sunday. when it takes highest finish ever in last on the Hedbirds of Illinois weekend's Las Vegas State in the Joyce Athletic Invitational tournament and Convocation Center. placing three wmstlers and This will be the Redbirds' finishing seventh out of 46 second dual meet of the teams. season. McCann was pleased with 
"They used to dominate the performance of his team us, now the tables have in a tournament that is turned," Irish head coach considered the toughest Fran McCann said. "We're invitational in the eountry. giving them an advantage by "We did well, 13 of the wrestling most of our top 20 teams in the nation wrestlers up a weight class. wen~ there," McCann said. This will also take some "But we could have done pressure off the wrestlers better. The dose matches who have finals coming up. hurt us." 
"Illinois State will always Strong performances be in good physical shape were given by Pat Boyd and they will fight you to the (142)-seeond place, Marc end. We're not good enough Gerardi ( 16 71-l'ourth place 
By GREG GUFFEY this is a pleasant change of dePourcq (7 goals, 9 assists, 16 

to take a team like that for and Andy Hadenbaugh 
granted." (118)-sixth place.
Assistant Sports Editor events from last year's 10-26-2 points) anrl Norm 

Last year, the Notre Boyd, ranked third in the
record. the most losses ever for Krumpschmid (3-9-12). They 

Dame wrestlers crushed the nation, lost in the finals to
The Notre Dame hockey team a Notre Dame team. alternate Marc Felicio (0-6-3, 

Redbirds in Normal, Illinois, the number one wrestler in
has already won as many "Nothing surprises me any­4.29) and Mike Williams (2-5-0, 

extending their win streak to the nation, Townsend
games as it did in all of last more," Schafer said. "We're off 5.02) at the goal. 

6-0 with a 34-7 victory. Saunders of Arizona State. 
season. to a good start and we're play­"There was a time when we 
"lie was winning the
Now, the key is to keep that ing with a lot of confidence would have been doing well to 
momentum going. right now. Success breeds op­come out with one win this 

Illinois State is led by match 4-1 and lost his 
The Irish will play Ferris timism. We have to keep our­weekend," Schafer said. "Now, 

junior captain Greg Gardner composum a little and ended 
at 190 pounds -one of up losing 9-8," McCann said. 
State in a home-and-away selves in check. The tragedy 
we have our sights set on a 

Illinois State's only two Another tight match that
series Friday and Saturday. would be if we were overconfi­
sweep." 

winners in last year's hurt the Irish was eighth­
Notre Dame will travel to Big dent." 
Schafer has plenty of reasons 

match-and senior Mark ranked Radenbaugh's tough
Hapids, Mich., for a 7:30 p.m. Ferris State, which plays in 
to be optimistic about the pos­

Mammen at 177. semi-final match at 118
contest and return to the Joyce the always-tough CCliA, has 
sibility of a sweep against the 
pounds against All-American 
ACC for Saturday's 7:30 p.m. just two wins, but one of those 
Bulldogs. Goalie Lance Madson 

After Illinois State, the Donnie Heckel of Clemson.
game. was a big victory over a tough 
Notre Dame, 10-2-0, is cur­Michigan State team. The is at the top of his game after 

Notre Dame wrestling Radenbaugh wrestled a 
setting the Notre Dame career 

team's schedule keeps tough mateh but lost in
rently riding a four-game win­Bulldogs' other win came 
win mark last Friday with his 

getting tougher. Six overtime 1-0. Gerardi
ning streak after last weekend's against Illinois-Chicago. 
47th victory, a 5-0 shutout over 

upcoming Irish opponents wrestled seven matches en
sweep of Mankato State at the The Bulldogs have been un­
Mankato State. He is just one 

were ranked in the Amateur route to his fourth-place
Joyce ACC. The Bulldogs come able to put a lot of points on 
Wrestling News top 25 poll finish, losing a close last
into Friday's game with a 2-11-the board so far this season, shutout away from setting an-
last week-including third­match for third to a Lehigh
3 ledger. scoring just 41 goals in 16 
For Irish coach Hie Schafer, games. They are led by John see HOCKEY I page 18 

rated Oklahoma and fourth-wrestler, 5-3. 
l r 


