
VOL. XXIII NO. 69 ' 
By MONICA YANT 
News Writer 
The Hall Pn~sidents' Council attempted to veto a proposed constitutional amendment Tuesday. 
After two votes, however, the amendment to eliminate the of­fice of the Ombudsman in Stu­dent Government was finally passed due to several absten­tions. said HPC Co-Chairperson Diane Toohey. 
The presidents were not op­posed to the amendment per se, said Mark Bettencourt. an i-IPC member. They were concerned with. "the growing trend that IIPC as an organization was not being afforded what we thought proper recognition in Student Government," he said. 
"This was an effort to re­assert the role of IIPC in Stu­dent Government," according to Bettencourt. 
Toohey said that some hall presidents were concerned that members of Senate assumed that the amendment would be passed automatically. This 
Merrr
Chris mas! 

Happy Holidays! 
This is the last issue of The Observer before Christmas break. We will resume publi­cation on January 18. The Observer wishes everone the best of luck on finals and an enjoyable holiday season. 
--~~~~-~---------, 

THURSDAY , DECEMBER 14, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The Observer/ David Short 

Staring squirrel 
After a busy day of gathering nuts, this squirrel rests on the front porch of his home in a pine tree by Breen Phillips Hall Wednesday. To find out what this squirrel is watching so intently, see page 4. 
HPC challenges lack of 'recognition' in student gov. 
supports the even larger con­cern that liPC members feel they are not taken seriously by Student Government, she said. The amendment had unani­mously been passed by the Stu­dent Senate the previous night. 
The presidents used the amendment to make a state­ment, according to Bettencourt. By attempting to veto the amendment, the presidents showed they were tired of being "perceived as virtually a rubber stamp" of Student Government, he said. 
Bettencourt said he suggested to the presidents to vote "no" or "in absentia" to make their concerns known. "The only way to do so was to take a vote and let it show in numbers," he said. 
In the first vote, 14 opposed the amendment. while six were in favor, and six abstained. 
While motioning for a re­vote, Bettencourt said he en­couraged voting "in absentia," so that although their concerns would be heard, the amendment itself could pass. 
The presidents weren't really voting against the amendment, Toohey said, but against the principle behind it. 
A second vote was taken after 
Co-Chairpersons Megan Hanley 
and Toohey instructed members 
to vote on the issue of the 
amendment, not of power. The 
second vote recorded 15 in fa­
vor, four opposed, and seven 
abstaining. 
see HPC I page 8 

de Klerk negotiates with Mandela 
Right-wing party denounces meeting as capitulation 
JOIIANNESBUHG, South Africa (AP)-Black leader Nel­son Mandela, expected to be re­leased within weeks after 27 years in jail, visited President 
F.W. de Klerk on Wednesday to discuss prospects for negotiat­ing an end to South Africa's ra­cial conflict. 
The main far-right party de­nounced the meeting, the first ever between Mandela and de Klerk, as a step toward white capitulation. 
Liberal leaders, however, hailed the event as evidence the government accepts the central role of Mandela's outlawed guerrilla movement, the African National Congress, in any polit­ical settlement. 
The Justice Ministry said Mandela requested the meeting at Tuynhuis, the presidential office in Cape Town, and that de Klerk "welcomed the oppor­tunity." 
Mandela, the country's best­known black leader, has been imprisoned since 1962 and is serving a life sentence for plot­ting an anti-government sabo­tage campaign. 
The meeting was Mandela's second with a South African president this year. He met with 
P.W. Botha on July 5, also at Tuynhuis. 
Since replacing Botha on Aug. 15, de Klerk has made several conciliatory moves toward the black majority in an effort to ease racial tensions. 
He has loosened restrictions on anti-government protests, met with prominent opposition leaders, ordered desgregation of whites-only beaches, traveled to several black-ruled African states, and proposed the repeal of the Separate Amenities Act, which permits the segregation of many public facilities. 
On Oct. 15, de Klerk ordered the unconditional release of seven of Mandela's ANC col­leagues. The lack of violence related to their release is seen as a factor that makes Man­deJa's freedom likely. 
The two discussed "ways and 
see AFRICA I page 7 

NO computing to improve in 90s 
By SANDRA WIEGAND 
News Writer 
Computing at Notre Dame in the 90s will have the capacity to improve communication on campus, according to Donald Spicer, assistant provost for University Computing. 
Academic buildings in the early 90s will be connected by computers in much the same way they are presently con­nected by telephone services, he said. By the mid 90s the net­work will be extended to resi­dence halls. 
An example on a low level, he said, will be access to the li­brary catalog from any com­puter in the network. lligh quality reference books such as encyclopedias will be accessible to students from their dorms. 
Many of the library's materi­als, Spicer said, are already in "machine-readable" form, and need only to be applied to the computers. 
The computers will lead to a more efficient running of the University, said Spicer. He used the DAHT system for class reg­istration as an example. 


"Many people have mixed feelings about DAHT," he said, "but the problems were not with how the system itself func­tioned, but in how people used it. .. 
Another example Spicer gave was access to common infor­mation such as events calen­dars, "to avoid standing in lines." 
Integration of computers into the curriculum, Spicer said, will also be prominent, "not to re­place anything traditional, but to augment it." 
An alignment between com­puter services and services such as educational media will take place, he said. in an effort to merge technologies. 
Hegarding computer clusters such as the present ones in LaFortune Student Center and 
The Hesburgh Library, Spicer said installation will continue in the 90s, but that he foresees an increase in private ownership of personal computers by stu­dents. 
The goal is to install one public access microcomputer for every twenty undergraduate students, he said. This should be accomplished in about two years, at which point Notre Dame will be viewed as a "computer intensive campus." 
University Computing will not try to provide the number of computer facilities which could be utilized at times when com­puter use is its highest, but a sufficient number of computers which are up to technological c;tandards will be accessible, 
1icer said. 


AP Photo

White Washington Christmas 
The dome of the U.S. Capitol is framed by the snow laden limbs of dogwood trees Wednesday morning. The capital area received several inches of snow overnight. · 

Thursday, December 14, 1989
page 2 The Observer 
INSIDE CoLUMN 


Phony cheer at Christmas? Get real 
'Twas the night be­fore finals And all through the Florentine Domn 

Hoelker
Not an administra­tor was stirring Asst. News Editor Not even those boneheads Who created the DAHT system ... 
Around Chistmas­time most people get mushy, act nice and make an efTort to spread some Christmas cheer. 
I have no objection to this, because of course I do it too. 
But if you think about it, the whole thing is a farce. 
Ah yes. I can hear the catcalls now. "Scrooge! You Grinch! What's wrong with Christmas, you jerk?" 
There's nothing wrong with Christmas. It's what's wrong with us. 
I have a hard time believing the sincerity of a person who, one minute, will shake my hand, smile, wish me a Merry Christmas and talk of peace and goodwill towards men, but the next would just as readily discuss the merits of not "burdening a woman with an unwanted pregnancy." 
That's the Christmas spirit -good will towards men and an aborted baby in every stocking, hung by the fireplace with care. 
There's something wrong with a society that kicks Salvation Army Santa Clauses out of shopping malls onto the street because they are "unattractive" or seem "low-class." 
There's no need for us to worry about those in need -we can sit back in our com­fortable middle-class or upperclass homes (depending on your parents' tax bracket) and exchange expensive and useless gifts. 
Unless we feel guilty, in which case we might go out of our way once a year to approach a begging Santa Claus and drop a few quarters in the pot by his feet. 
It's as if we hope a few weeks of goodwill 
can make us feel better, because we know 
we've been selfish the rest of the year, 
worrying about matching socks with our 
sweater, getting Nike Air Jordans from our 
mommies and daddies when next we go 
home, and whether we have enough beer or 
party invitations for the weekend to get 
trashed. Oh, and lest I forget-
Merry Christmas. 
The views expressed in the Inside column belong to the author and are not necessarily those of The Observer. 

PO Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219)·239-7471 
Today's Staff: 
News 
VIewpoint
Greg Lucas Christine Walsh Sara Voigt Production Janice O'Leary 
Tricia Grohman 
Katie Foster 
Aalent Jeanne Blasi Terri Walsh 
Systems
Colleen Cronin 
Molly Schwartz Spol1s Dan Towers Steve Megargee
Ad Design Jeanne Naylor Business Quinn Satepauhoodle Liz Panzicia Shannon Roach Mike Kolar Mindy Breen 
The Observer (USPS 599 2 4000) IS pubiiSiled Monday through Frrday excep/ durrng exam and vacat1on perrods The Observer IS a n1ember ol the Assoc1a1ed Press All reproductiOn rrghts are reservtJd 

WEATHER 
Forecast for noon, Thursday, December 14. Lines show high temperatures. 
FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

©1989 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
h
® © m ~ w D E~/\cj
' 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press Graph/csNet 
OF INTEREST 
The annual Service of Lessons and Carols. Applications for Student Escort Service are Sunday, December 17 at 8:00p.m. in the Church of Our available through Finals Week. Pick up applications at Lady of Loretto on Saint Mary's College campus. The the Secretary's desk, 2nd noor LaFortune. Applications event is open to the public. due December 21. 
WoRLD 
The BBC will teach Polish broadcasters Western radio and television techniques as part of Britain's $80 million aid package. it was announced in London Wednesday. "It's difficult to believe that it was as re­cently as 1987 that deliberate interference with our Polish broadcasts ceased," said BBC World Service Managing Director John Tusa. Thirty-six broadcast­ers, chosen by Polish Hadio and Television, will begin six-week training programs starting in February, Tusa said. The BBC also will set up a training studio in War­saw for journalists who don't speak English. 
The keeper of U.S. aviation records has confirmed the first certified human-powered helicopter night by a super-lightweight craft built by a group of university students from San Luis Obispro, California. "We are satisfied it was not a jump start, but a bona fide hover." said Malvern Gross, president of the 
Ten Indianapolis-area hospitals announced Wednesday they would ban smoking by patients, visitors and staff on hospital grounds in 1990. The ban affects three Community Hospitals, three Indiana University Hospitals, Methodist Hospital, St. Francis Hospital and two St. Vincent Hospitals -one in 
Indianapolis and one in CarmeL St. Francis 
CAMPUS 

Students leaving their cars on campus during Christmas break should move them to the D-2 parking lot. According to Phil Johnson, assis­tant director of Security, the lot will be locked late Saturday December 23 and Security will make extra patrols of the area. 
The Notre Dame student aquatic em­ployees including lifeguards and locker room is­sue people are not having their annual Christmas dinner and gifts this year. They have decided to give the $300 spent on the above to the Center for the Homeless. 

Funeral arrangements for William 
Davisson, Notre Dame professor of economics, are the following: Visitation, at Welsheimers Funeral Home, 521 N. Williams St. today from 6­9 p.m.; Service, Welsheimers Funeral Home, Friday, December 15, 1:30 p.m.; Burial, Cedar Grove Cemetary, Notre Dame, Friday, December 15, following the service. 
and 

MARKET UPDATE Closings tor December 13, 1989 

Volume in shares 


184.66 Million 

S&P Composite 
351.73 03.17 
Dow Jones Industrials 
2761.09 0 8.96 
Precious Metals Gold {]> $9.80 to $408.101 oz. Silver{} 13.8¢ to $5.544 I oz. 
Source: AP 
Food aid is pouring into Angola's southwestern provinces of lluila, Namibe and Cunene, 
where rural populations have bem1 hit hard by a four­month drought, the state news agency from Luanda 
reported Wednesday. Deputy Minister of Agriculture Isaac dos Anjos said the lack of rain since September has claimed the lives of an undetermined number of villagers who have been forc<'d to wander the largPiy arid provinces in search of food and water, the news agency ANGOP said. llerds of cattle have died and fields of basic crops such as corn and beans also have been destroyed by wild animals scavenging for food, ANGOP reported. 
National Aeronautic Association in Washington, D.C. The NAA certified the feat Tuesday. The Da Vinci Ill, designed and built by engineering students at California Polytechnic State University. had a 6.8­second night Sunday that was observed by NAA consultant Thomas H. Stuelpnagel. 
INDIANA 
Methodist will lead the way and become smoke-free in January. The others plan to follow suit by July. "All hospitals are concerned about the general health of their communities, yet in the past we have subtly supported unhealthy behaviors by allowing smoking in our buildings," said Fred Bagg, director of St. Francis 
community relations. 
ALMANAC 
On December 14: e In 1911: Norwegian ex­plorer Roald Amundsen became the first man to reach the South Pole, beating out an ex­pedition led by Hobert F. Scott. 
e In 1945: Josef Kramer, known as "the beast of Belsen." and 10 others were hanged in llameln for crimes committed at ttw Nazi's Belsen and Auschwitz concentration 
camps. 
e In 1962: The U.S. space probe Mariner 2 approached Venus, transmitting back in­formation about the planet's atmosphere and surface tem­
peratun~. 
Yesterday's high: 19 
Yesterday's low: 2 
Nation's high: 82 
(Miami, Fla.) 
Nation's low: -21 
(International Falls, 
Minn.) 
Forecast: Cloudy and very cold today with a 60 percent chance of light snow. Highs in the middle teens. Cloudy and very cold tonight with a 50 percent chance of light snow. Lows near zero. Cloudy and very cold Fri­day with a 40 percent chance of light snow. Highs around 1o . 

NATIONAL 
-----------~------· 
Thursday, December 14, 1989 The Observer page 3 
Freedom laws slated by new Czech. gov. 
PHAGUt·:, Cznrlwslovakia (APl otlwr dissidents who became -Tlw opposition-dominatPd part of the 21-nwmber Cabinet gowrnnwnt said Wednesday it on Sunday has been the great­is drafting laws nnsuring free­est of the historic gains made dom of rPiigion. assnmbly and by the reform movement, which association and giving those in the past month has used arn·stPd tli'W protnctions. mass demonstrations to force 
Opposition leadnrs usnd to the Communists to open bor­quirk virtorins in tlwir democ­ders, promise free elections and ratization drive ran into pro­surrender their monopoly on tracted talks with thn Commu­power. nists and otlwr partins ovt~r thn liard-line Communist Presi­unPxpPctPdly thorny issuP of dent Gustav Husak rf'signed how and wlwn to nh~rt a 1ww after swearing in the new gov­prPsidPnt. ernmPnt, creating an opening 
The proposed lngal reforms the opposition would like to fill wPrP announced to Parliament with playwright Vadav Havel. by DPputy Premier Jan Husak, 71, resigned Wednes­Carnogursky, a dissident day from his last position of lawyer rdnasnd from jail two power in the Communist Party, wnnks ago who on Sunday was stepping down from his seat on named to the first government the party Central Committee, 
Canvas creation The Observer/ David Short 
in 41 years led by non-Commu­the state news agency CTK re­
Fifth year engineering student Karl Krueger puts the finishing touches on his painting inside of Riley Hall 
nists. ported. 
of Art of Design on Wednesday.

The pPnal codP changes The opposition group Civic would strengthen the indepen­Forum wants Parliament to dence of the judiciary and re­elect Havel by Dec. 23, the duce the time a person can be deadline under current law for 

N~tional club to begin in January
held in custody before charges a new president to be named. ar11 film!, Carnogursky said. By JOE MOODY Rask, Club Coordinator and fu­representation of all the clubs,
The Communists want Par­
News Writer 

Carnogursky also has joined ture member of the Student Se­said Rask.
liament to amend the constitu­
a three-man gov11rnm11nt com­nate. "By networking , we can allo­
tion to allow a referendum on 
mission overseeing Czechoslo­A newly formed independent Rask said, "We've also elected cate funds better, we will help
the presidency and also have 
vakia's secret police. body called the Club Coordina­a chairman to represent each the clubs save money. For in­
hinted they might support a di­
tion Council consisting of over of the six different divisions:
llis elevation and that of nim~ stance, if three various clubs
rect election. 

130 campus clubs will go into ethnic, geographic, special in­happen to need $1000.00 for a existence as of next semester. terest, acedemic, athletic and van at different times in the

Off-campus students given 
The Club Coordination Coun­social service. The Club Coor­year, we can now make it pos­
cil consists of all the campus dination Council will meet indi­sible to just lease a van and let clubs except the Student Gov­vidually with each of these club all three clubs use it," said

sponsorship for athletics 
ernment and the Student Union chairmen to assist in allocating Rask. By MONICA YANT rnsidr.nce halls, while also in­Board. money to the individual clubs. "We want to keep the clubs News Writer cluding them in the ND com­"We've networked all the This way, they will get a fair individual, but we also want a 
munity, Kanerviko said. clubs into a centralized organi­shake on how much money the general loose network that can
Off-campus studPnts werP Locascio said that the money zation. By having the clubs clubs will get." help them solve any problemsgranted financial sponsorship he requested from the HPC work together, they could save Many clubs were being de­they might have. Now, by hav­for intPr-hall athletics by Stu­budget was for off-campus so­a lot of money, organize their prived money because the ing one representative of all the dPnt Government, said Exeeu­cial functions. When Locascio activities more efficiently, and group that was giving them the clubs in the Senate, they will tiw Coordinator Art Kam~rviko. learned of the athletes' request, deal with problems more effec­money wasn't really in touch have a much more effective way 
Eight baskPtball teams and Student Body President Matt tively by having a say in the with them. This was because to vent their problems," said onP hockPy team will rPcf'ive Breslin said that perhaps Stu­campus community," said Tom the Budget Committee lacked Rask. money as a result of the deci­dent Government could help the sion. off-campus athletes. 
Mike Locascio. off-campus The funding was, according 
14-year-old rapist given life term 
roordinator for Hall Presi­to Locascio, "A gesture to im­dPnts' Council. explained that prove relations with off-campus PENSACOLA, Fla. (AP) -A terms in certain non-capital tence because of his long crimi­funding for inter-hall athlr,tics students." He said that Student 14-year-old boy has received a cases, Kaden said. Sullivan's nal history, including an assault comes from hall taxes. Since Government's involvement life term without parole for past criminal record and other a mental health
on clinic 
off-rampus students pay no coincides with the University's twice raping an elderly woman crimes committed in connection counselor and a burglary dur­such tax, they are left to fi­desire to improve relations when he was 13. with the rapes gave him a sen­ing which he killed a dog,JHtneP tlwir teams themselves. with off-campus students. Joe Harris Sullivan, who was tencing guideline score that Kaden told the judge. Geeker 
lee timn costs hockey teams According to Breslin, the sentenced Tuesday, would have called for life, Kaden said. agreed.approximatPiy $50 dollars pPr funding is not necessarily a been eligible for parole after 25 ''I'm going to try to send him "He is beyond help," the hour, said Locascio. Hesidence permanent decision. Future in­years if he hadn't killed his vic-away for as long as I can," Cir­judge said. "The juvenile system halls normally pay this feP. volvement of Student Govern­tim and received life for first-cuit Judge Nicholas Geeker said has been utterly incapable of 
The funding granted by Stu­ment will depend on how recep­degree murder, Assistant State before imposing two concur­doing anything with Mr. Sulli­dPnt Government will give ofT­tive the off-campus students Attorney Larry Kaden said rent life sentences on the Pen-van." campus students the same op­are to the inter-hall athletics Wednesday. sacola youngster. Kaden said he expected the portunity to participate in in­florida law doesn't provide Regardless of the boy's age,
program. case to be appealed. Sullivan's 
tnr-hall athlt~tics as students in for paroling criminals given life he deserved the maximum sen­
1 
attorney, Mack Plant, said Wednesday that he doesn't handle appellate work but that
r·~~lS'J&~rt.liaJTir~IE=N~lr~a.:~IT~(Q)~N~»(Q)~DiiDIF~IFQ~CC!a'l::Jil·.JII!.l.~lill:•§~~~JT~1U~a:~'~~IE~NE&~ 
the court would appoint an at­torney for the youth if he wanted to appeal.
-----~==-=-.:==~~:....=F-='f-=or the: A jury convicted Sullivan as 
an adult of burglary, theft and sexual battery after about 30 minutes of deliberation Nov.




Student Break Home 
30. 
He was accused of breaking into the 74-year-old woman's home while she was away May

Watch Program 
4 and stealing jewelry and cash and then returning the same day to rape her twice at knife­point.

South Bend Police will personally checl< 
"I have fears. I have night­mares," the woman told Ge11ker

your home over Christmas break. 
before he sentenced Sullivan. "It has had a bad psychological effect on me." 
She said he probably would have killed her if neighbors had not called for help. 
Sullivan said nothing at the hearing and showed no emotion as the sentence was pro­nounced. 
"He didn't have any reaction at all," Plant said in a tele­phone interview. "He was just kind of emotionless." 
Plant said the youth had in-
see RAPE 1page 4 

page 4 The Observer Thursday, December 14, 1989 

The Observer/ David Short 

Squirrel's eye view 
Although the squirrels may desire to bury their nut supply in this broad hole, these workmen are digging up the pavement outside Breen Phillips Hall in order to repair it on Wednesday afternoon. 

Bogus financial aid warned against 
By JANICE O'LEARY 
News Writer 
A warning from the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Finan­eial Aid Offices states that they have become aware of an orga­nization entitled Academic Council on Financial Assistance allegedly based in Washington, 
D.C. which proposes to secure at least $300 in scholarship aid for students who submit $50 for their search service. Stu­dents are advised not to con­tact this organization. 
When looking for financial aid information from services that provide it . .Joe Husso. di­rnctor of financial aid, recom­mends students use caution and follow these guidelines: 

Rape 
continued from page 3 
sisted all along he was inno­
cent. 
"That's quite a sentenee," 
Plant said. "lie had quite a 
criminal history, but I think he 
would be a eandidate for reha­
bilitation." 
Plant agreed that the boy's 
sentence was tougher than 
what he probably would have 
received for a murder convie­
tion. 
A first-degree murder convic­
tion ean be punished by death 
and the U.S. Supreme Court has 
upheld such sentenees for mur­
derers as young as 16, but has 
not ruled on cases involving 
younger children .. 
•Contaet 
the organization and ask some hard questions such as: who is on the board of direetors; where the office is located; and how they obtained your name and address. You may also wish to inquire as to what percentage of applicants have actually received scholar­ships and the nature of those scholarships. 

•If 
you are not given satisfac­tory answers or if you are sus­pieious in any way that the or­ganization might be a fraud you should contact the Finan­cial Aid Offices at either Notre Dame or Saint Mary's to see if they have any information on the legitimacy of the organiza­tion. 


• You may also contact the 

Smith 
National Better Business Bu­reau in Washington, D.C. if your suspicions persist. 
•Read 
the fine print on any follow-up materials received. 

•If 
your suspicions continue after having fully investigated the organization as far as pos­sible, call the Post Office and inform them of a potential mail-fraud. 


Much of the information ob­tained from scholarship ser­vices can be found at a library or from a high school guidance counselor free of charge. Stu­dents are strongly advised not to send money to any organiza­tion until they have checked it out thoroughly. 

NOTRE DAME 




GOLF SHOP 
CHRISTMAS GIFfS FOR THE GOLFER IN YOUR FAMILY SHOP HOURS MONDAY-FRIDAY 7:00AM -1:00PM 



Trident 2 test launch is successful Wed. 
CAPE CANAVEHAL, Fla. (AP) -The crew of the nuclear submarine Tennessee suecnss­fully launched a Trident 2 mis­sile Wednesday after tlw Navy warned Greenpeaee anti-nu­clear protnstPrs to stay out of the safety zo1w, tho Navy said. 
The launch was the second straight sueressful undersea test-firing of the Navy's new1~st and deadliest nuclPar weapon, keeping it on track for opera­ti!mal deployment next Marel1. Two of the first three subma­rine tests failed explosively. 
The Tennessee was cruising submerged in the Atlantic about 50 miles offshore wh1~n the 44-foot, $26.5 million mis­sile burst out of a launch tube, broke the surface, ignited and hurled a dummy warhead package to an undisclosed ocean target several thousand miles away. 
The Navy reported several minutes after the 9:15 a.m. launch that the test was suc­eessful. 
A 60-foot Greenpeace ketch, 
the Mondeivitano, briefly pene­
trated the launch safety zone 
but withdrew after a Navy ship 
warned it to move away. The 
safety area is a 5,000-foot ra­
dius around the submarine. 
"They observed the range 
safety warning," said Lt. Cmdr. 
Bill Sonntag, a Navy spokesman. 
"W1~ made our point that we have a right to protnst in inter­national watPrs," said (;rPPn­pean~ spoknswonHLn Shannon Fagan. "We will now take our light to Congn•ss in an pf"f'ort to have this missile syst1~m canceled. The world can no longer afford the wastn of pre­cious wsourc.es on weapons of mass destruction like tlw Tri­d!mt 2." 
Grm~npeaee protnsters triPd to halt a Tridt~nt 2 launch Dec. 4 by sending the 11JO-foot vessel MV Greenpeacn, with 25 aboard, into the Tennessee's safety zone. 
A Navy ship intereepted the intruding vessel and damaged it by repeatedly bumping it and using fire hoses to pour water down the smokestacks, stop­ping the engines. Navy sailors in swift boats corraled two Greenpeace high-speed rafts that tried to approach the Ten­nessee, cut their fuel lines and towed them out of the safety zone. 
Greenpeace had halted a Tri­dent 2 test with the same tac­tics in .July. 

11.COO Scholarship for etght weeke of your 1ummer devouted to aervtce wort 
In clUes of Alumni Club• an aver the U.S. 
IIFORJtATIOI HEETII& 
December 14 
7:30 PH 


at the Center for Social Concerns 

SHOP &.. DINE•••ONTHE
EAST .,__ 

~ ~BANK 

IMERIB•~EAFOOD/ ~ 
~~ _J 
-l±lliHt+=;-.. 
WM.

II h 
DIPOMJUCOWUX-
W:he JIDlo[e 1f=Io[e 

ArtGitm Cards 
Brass Childrm's Corntr 
Oy#G/ 

D«ot.tiwt Accusoria David Win In-Collagts 
Collectibles 
D«oys 
Dolls
Jewelry 

Klll•kloscopa Picture ( ramts 
Men's Gifts 
Mwk84UI 

-

CRAimlEB .t BVELYN
PrittiS ol UiltOf~
Tom Clark's Gnomes 
._ 
/>tqwrw/fhiS
Wind Chimes 

StMtM • lA/Ioiii
Sl/kl'l4~
YtiiT;JTOUnd Christmas 

Slulmpoot • Potpourri
Swnmkl Oy#lll 

Gourmet Foods & CAndiu 
Free Olflwrappina ..... We Ship Anywhere.....VISA, MASTERCARD 111 S. Nita, Do-towa South Beod TdcphODC (ll~ l3l-14U Monday· Salutday 10:00 -.9:00 Sunday 1:00-S:OO 
/ 
J 


Siorage 
J 
WE ARE LOCATED 

1/2 MILE SOUTH Of K-IIART 3001 s. u.s. 33 SAME SIDE Of HIGHWAY NILES, Ml 
:;:: 

STATEUN5RO. 
ST. MARY" S .,; 

NORTE DAME 
VISA-MC U-HAUL Boxes, Tape, etc. 

Winter car Storage Available for Christmas Holiday 
10 K·MAIIT 
N 

i 
ONTARIO RD. 
COlLEGE

684-4880 
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES 
SlllRTS SWEATERS BALLS UMBRELLAS HEADWEAR JACKETS HEADCOVERS CLUBS EQUIPMENT 
ENJOY FINE GOLF CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT WITH EXCLUSIVE NOTRE DAME LOGOS 
AVAILABLE ONLY AT THE NOTRE DAME GOLFSHOP 
;:; I UNIVERSITY 
-~--­

Thursday, December 14, 1989 The Observer page 5 

BOSTON IAPJ -The word on the street is that Georgette Watson's head is worth $5,000. If she's shot and doesn't die, it's $1 ,000. 
That's how badly street gangs want to get rid of the founder of Drop-A-Dime, a hot linn that fields tips on drug pushers. Watson is under 24­hour police surveillance and says she can accept that -for now. But she won't live in a fishbowl forever. 
"I want to be free," she said Wednesday. "They feel they can kill anyone who goes against their stance. This is a fight not community. If we take a stand now we won't have to pay later." 

Deputy Superintendent William Celester said police in­formants had received "solid tips" this week that local gang members had set a price on Watson's life. 
"Georgette Watson has ... been getting various threats ever since she began to speak out about the drug dealers and everything else," he said. "From time to time, we've of­fered her police protection and she's always turned those of­fers down. This time we're in­
The idea of gang bounties is not particularly new. Tensions ran high this fall when similar threats were made on police of­ficers patrolling this city's Dorchester, Mattapan and Roxbury neighborhoods. 
"Georgette has become a symbol of the little person standing up," Celester said. "She's been out there standing up for the community and fighting back. She's become a symbol that these gangs want to stop." 
The 46-year-old knows she's in danger but prefers not to 
U.S. energy picture for the 90s is blurred 
(AP)-The U.S. energy pic­ture for the 1990s is a blur of dark lines and bright signs: doubt about ensuring stable prices and steady supplies, but also promise of technological leaps toward a 

more secure energy future. growing tons of nuclear 
Such consumer advances waste. Relatively "clean" en­as compact fluorescent light ergy from nuclear fusion will bulbs, "superwindows" that remain only a distant better insulate buildings, and prospect. more efficient refrigerator • Decisions about develop­motors are just over the ing traditional U.S. energy horizon. The efficiency of resources -oil, natural gas these new products should and coal -will become more partly offset the expanded intertwined with worries use of electricity in the '90s. about the harmful environ­
Energy projections over mental effects of finding, ex­the past two decades have tracting, moving and burn­been astonishingly far off ing these fossil fuels. the mark, proving that the • The nation will become 
energy economy is too more dependent on foreign volatile to follow a pre­oil and natural gas as do­dictable path. Even so. the mestic oil producers look consensus view is that oil abroad for drilling prices, now $16 to $18 a prospects. barrel, will hold fairly steady • Houses and commercial in the early 1990s, and then buildings will become more move moderately higher. energy-efficient, with com­
Analysts are quick to note, pact fluorescent lights and however, that the trend in oil other advanced appliances, prices over the past two and "superwindows" whose decades has been determined glazing offers greater pro­largely by political events tection from the extremes of and market reactions almost the air outside. no one foresaw. These trends suggest con­
Experts say forces already flicting signals about Ameri­at work point to key energy can energy fortunes in the themes for the 1990s: next decade: new possibili­
• 
More automobiles will be ties for popularizing more powered by fuels other than benign fuels, but uncertainty gasoline, as the nation looks about a commitment to move for environmentally safer al­away from the most pollut­ternatives that can lessen ing ones, especially oil. dependence on foreign oil. The Bush administration is Some may use hydrogen gas already promoting a revival made from water, using elec­of nuclear energy, stagnant tricity generated by the sun. since the mid-1970s, but Fuels made from natural electric utilities say major gas, coal and grain are likely changes in state and federal to become more common. regulations will be needed 

• 
The federal government before they will build more will push harder to revive plants. atomic power. Tax dollars Complicating the outlook is 


"


may be used to develop a a warning from the utility nuclear reactor with added industry and many energy safety features, but public analysts that some regions opposition to the atom is -especially the Northeast likely to persist. A key focus -could face electricity of debate: how to store shortages early in the 1990s . 
•.._.._._.,_..._...._.._..._..._....._.,_-_..._..~.._....._....-...-..,_...._...._.._1
ISPRINGTIME IN LONDON: 19~901~~ I MARCH 9 -18 ~-Mtl I ~ . Ya 
~~--. _. -<~~1\"ii ~ Tour jncludes all of tbe followjfl3 for one low cost· if 
*Round trip AIRFARE: Chicago -london via British Airways. *Round trip TRANSFERS: Airport-Hotel 1•a NIGHTS: The Royal National Hotel -all rooms with private I 
bath & continental breakfast. *7 day london Regional Transport Visitor Travelcard. I *Full Day Guided Tour: Stratford-on-Avon and Oxford 
ALWAYS 
REMEMBER... 
Lock your office or room at all times, even for 5 minutes or less. . surroundings

Pay attention to y~~~ting suspisciously,
and report anyon
i.e. around bike racks. 
Walk with someone after dark, both on and off campus. . Don't leave purses, books. 
Be WISe. d d 
or backpacks unatten e . · port it'
erience a cnme. re · 
If you exph lp prevent other crimes.
Thzs can e 

CALL 288-STOP 
·experienced Guides to Assist with: 
theatre bookings, shopping, sightseeing 
1 **Total Coat per peBOn: $975.00 
1~Call SEVEN SEAS TRAVEL, South Bend, for details~ 
L------·~~:_~~~~~~-----­
HAPPY 19th 
to my friend 
~~~~ 
[LVrNJ~~ 
L YLAS! Mary Kate 


--------------------------------.-~-----------------­
page 6 The Observer Thursday, December 14, 1989 

Havel for president 
AP Photo 
Czech citizens wearing posters of opposition leader, Vaclay Havel, walk through Wenceslas square, Tuesday, to show their support for the Civic Forum leader as president. 

MOSCOW (AP) -The gov­prnment announced its eco­nomic recovery plan Wednes­day, promising live more years of bureaucratic control of such mundane details of life as the number of eggs produced for eaeh Soviet consumer. 
Premier Nikolai Hyzhkov re­jectP.d radical reforms like tlw legalization of private property and the selling off of money­losing state enterprises, draw­ing immediate scorn from dis­appoint(~d progressives in the Soviet Parliament. 
If bumaucrats really want to raise annual egg production ­targeted at 285 per person by 1995 -they should raise chickens. economist and par­liamentarian Gavriil Popov told Parliament. known as the Congress of People's Deputies. 
"Five years ago, we said it was a choke between live-year plans and pernstroika, and un­fortunately, it turns out the five-year plan has won," said fellow deputy Pavel Bunich, in tho lobby outside the snow-oJV­ered Kremlin's Palaee of Con­gresses. 
The government proposal shifts the emphasis of tradi­ticmal central planning away from heavy industry to con­sumer goods and services. They are to quadruple in the next live-year plan, from 1991-1996. It also would transfer some control from bureaucrats in Moscow to those in the re­publics. 
Brazilian campaign turns nasty 
Soviet gov. unveils economic plan 
said the plan was so bad he hoped tlw Congress would throw it back at the govmn­mPnt for a complete rewrite. Moreover. he suggested thn ministers responsible be re­placPd. 
Tlw governnwnt's moves to­ward a market economy are vagtw and fragmnntPd, doom­ing tlwm from the start. said Popov, one of 300 deputies who signed up to comnwnt. 
"You can't assemble it grad­ually,'' he said. "You can't have tlw carburetor working while the starter is idle. If the motor is working, it must be working eomplntPiy." 
"Enterprises are drowning, not because tlwy don't know how to swim, hut because the center has tied tlwir hands." he said. 
Hyzhkov's program was a l'IPar vidory for tlw conserva­tives, who dominate tlw Par­liamPnt. Hyzhkov ewn rejertml the program of his own top economist. Deputy Premier Leonid Abalkin. who had urged the saln of unprol'itabln state enterprises beginning in 1<J91, and urgent measures to free somf~ prices from state eontrol. 
Communist Party agriculture ehief Yegor Ligaehev stood up to rejeet reformers' suggestions that "small peasant holdings" could solve the eountry's food crisis. lie said tlw only reason huge eollnctive farms cannot feed the Soviet people is lack of technology and cash. 
lAMERICAN 
BHASILIA, Brazil (AI') -The presidential race has taken a turn for tlw nasty with a cam­paign spot in which a candi­datl~ 's ex-girlfriPnd charges he offnred lwr money to get an · abortion wlwn she was preg­nant with tlwir daughter. 
"lie ruined my life," said Miriam Cordl'iro, referring to socialist candidate Luis lnaeio I.ula da Silva, in an ad broad­east on Ttwsday and Wednes­day. 
In addition to talking about tlwir relationship and the cou­ple's illegitimate 15-year-old daughter, Ms. Cordeiro also said da Silva, known as l.ula, was a racist and "couldn't stand blacks." A majority of Brazil's 150 million people are black or mixed-race. 
The ad was mad!' by l.ula's opporwnt. FPrnando Collor de Mello of tlw conservative Na­tional Heconstruction Party. Ms. Cordeiro says in the spot that her testimony was volun­tary, but a former campaign workl'r for Collor de Mello claims the w·oman was paid about $23,000 for her partici­pation. 
"I couldn't remain silent fac­ing a cas!~ of corruption," said the worker, Maria !!elena Ama­ral. adding slw had quit Collor de Mello's campaign staff after the interview. 

The Brazilian press has roundly condemned Collor de Mello's tactics. 
"The eampaign rnachns the bottom," the respected daily newspaper Folha de Sao Paulo said Wednesday. 
Lula's campaign coordinator. Vladimir Pomar, called the in­Cordeiro following the death of his first wife in 1969. The press earlier this year "discovered" Lurian, but Brazilians did not react strongly to the disclosure. 
terview "baixaria"  - "a low  
blow."  
Tlw  candidate  says  his  
daughter,  Lurian,  was  born  
after  an  affair  with  Ms  

"Jie offered me money to get an abortion," Ms. Cordniro said in the spot. "WhPn she was born, I put hnr in his lap and said 'Now go ahead and kill hPr, because when she was in my belly I wouldn't let you."' 
Lula, in his own TV spot Wednnsday, was shown stand­ing bnside Lurian. 

******ATTENTION JUNIORS****** Do you want to see yourself and your friends in the 
JPW slide show? 
Then turn in pictures or slides to: Student Activities 3rd floor LaFortune or Wendy Burek 323 PW (x2798) put name and address on the back *******They will be returned to you.******* 
Elsewhere in the East bloe on Wednesday: 
• 
Czechoslovakia's nnw oppo­sition-dominated government said it is drafting laws ensuring freedom of religion, assembly and assoeiation and giving those arrested nnw protections. 

• 
Bulgaria's Communist Party expellnd Todor Zhivkov, the hard-line leader ousted last month after a 35-year rule. and agreed to join other Warsaw Pact parti<~s in surnmdering its guaranten of suprmne power. 

• 
Poles marked tlw nighth anniversary of the 1981 mar­tial-law crackdown, which Soli­darity leadm· Lnch Walesa said should be a reminder of thn need for "pluralism and toler­ance." 

• 
Poland and Hungary out­lined their eeonomic reforms at a meeting in Brussels, Belgium. with 24 Western nations that are coordinating aid to prevent Eastern Europe's reforms from being derailed by economic troubles. 


Hyzhkov said the Kremlin be­lieves it can salvage the sinking Soviet economy without resort­ing to Western economic mod­els. He claimed his plan was a radical reform "for carrying the economy out of a crisis." 
Food and consumer goods are in painfully short supply and authorities are wondering whether they'll have enough fuel to heat apartm!'nts through the long winter. 
Moscow deputy Yuri Andreev 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 


.:~~ti~li'J'u'J'CJlJ-;JJ~ '?!Jr~lJ-UlilJlKJlq) Ut;m~:~J 
e~ the 1990 (!J~ BomL No.bw :.b~ P~ P~ c RaJ4 
IN FT. LAUDERDALE AT 

MME~ on the beach 
D FT. LAUDERDALE'S PREMIERE 
~ CONCERT AND DANCE CLUB 18 YEARS AND OLDER ADMITTED 
Friday, December 29th 7 -9 p.m. 
t!J'U!e ~w.dk oddIVaiM :Dame J)) /M-~21 7-8:30p.m. All refreshments ¢75 7-9 p.m. 
·XCLIP & SA.VE ----··--------------------------­
Notre Dame -Orange Bowl Party 
(J~fzee~ 
Good from 7-9 p.m. Friday, December 29 
(UMIT ONE PER CUSI"OMERJ Summt:rson the Bt:ach • 219 S. Atlantic Blvd. • Ft. Lauderdale, Fl. • (305) 462-8978 
ILOCATED 112 BLOCK NORTH OF' LAS OLAS BLVD. ON AlAI ADMISSION POUCY: 18 YEARS OR OLDER WELCOME 
Thursday, December 14, 1989 The Observer 
page 7 

Bayh to investigate lottery resignation 
INDIANAPOLIS (APl -Gov. Evan Bayh said Wednesday he will discuss Lottery Director Jack F. Crawford's resignation in detail if Crawford or others involvnd publicly disclose what led to Crawford's unexpected departure. 
Meanwhile, the lottery em­ployee who was under Statn Police protection before and after Crawford's resignation spoke publicly for the first time since Crawford quit, saying she is "a victim of a very serious matter." 
Bayh, criticized by Rnpubli­cans and in editorial pages of newspapers for his handling of the Crawford incidnnt, said he was only trying to protect the privacy of the people involved when he declined to elaborate on why Crawford quit. 
"I think it would be appro­priate, if they sec fit, for the in­dividuals involved to make known their side of the story," Bayh told reporters Wednesday morning outside his Statehouse office. "Once the individuals have come forward to make a statement about this matter, I would be delighted to answer any and all questions about this entire affair." 
Published and broadcast re­
ports have said Crawford's 
resignation Sunday came after 
allegations about his relation­
ship with Cartwright, the lot­
tery's director of human re­
sources and a longtime Craw­
ford aide. 
Cartwright, interviewed 
briefly on Indianapolis televi­

sian station WRTV, said, "Well, 
this is not a very pleasant sit­
uation. I am a victim of a very, 
very serious matter." 

Asked if she was the victim of 
a crime, she said, "A very seri­
ous matter. I did not say crime. 
I feel that I'm a victim of a very 
serious matter and at this point 
I don't want to make a com­
ment. There might be a news 
conference next week. I don't 
know at this point." 

She said she would make no 
comment on whether she was 
threatened. She also said she 
believed her telephone had been 
tapped but did not say who she 
thought did that. 

Bayh administration officials said Cartwright was scared when she requested and re­ceived State Police protection at her Indianapolis apartment Saturday. 
That protection ended at mid­afternoon Wednesday. officials said. 
"She said she no longer re­quired it," said Bayh press sec­retary Fred Nation. 

Crawford has said he was surprised by the request for protection. 
"I have never threatened or hurt anybody physically in my life," Crawford, a former pros­ecutor, told the Gary Post-Tri­bune. ''I've seen enough of vio­lence to just hate it." 
Crawford wouldn't comment on any matters related to Cartwright. 

MOVE OVER BEETHOVEtt For the birthday dog Dclrby o·amu born December 17. 1979 HAPPY BIRTHDAY From the Kennelmaster 
Seniors, 

Who's hogging the cracker? 
Corey. We!s_h of Dover-Fox?roft shares a ~racker with Chloe, his pet Vietnamese pig. Unlike a farm pig, Chloe s ta1l IS long and stra1ght and wags like that of a dog. A Vietnamese pig costs between $3,000 and 
$4,000. 
Feast 
continued from page 13 
You? The Lord of the murder­
ers?'' The Jews, who insist on 
living in obedience to the Torah 
despite their being abandoned 
by God, are identified -by 
their suffering -as the repre­
sentatives of the living God in 
the midst of an evil, lawless 
world. 
There is a rabbinical tale told 
of a Jew who fled from the 
Spanish Inquisition with his 
wife and child, striking out in a 
Africa 
continued from page 1 means to address current ob­stacles in the way of meaningful dialogue," the ministry said. "Follow-up talks in the new year are envisaged." The talks "fitted in with Mr. de Klerk's program to consult with the full spectrum of politi­cal opinion concerning the mu-
small boat over the stormy sea until he reached a small island. A flash of lightning killed his wife; a storm rose and hurled his son into the sea. Then the Jew, alone, naked, and bare­foot, addresses the Master of the Universe in this way: "God of Israel, I have fled to this place in order to worship you, to obey your commandments, and sanctify your name. You, 
however, have done everything to make me stop believing in you. I notify you, my God and the God of my father, it will not avail you in the least. You may take everything I have, and you may torture me to death -I will still believe in You, I will always love You." 
"I believe in the sun even when it is not shining. I believe in love even when I'm not feel­ing it. I believe in God even when He is silent." This inscrip­tion was found on the wall of a cellar in Cologne where a num­ber of Jews hid themselves for the entire duration of the war. 
May God give all of us such deep faith in the Holy Child of Bethlehem. Merry Christmas. Remember: Darby O'Gill and I never said we didn't love you. 

tual future of all South Africans," the statement said. 
The far-right Conservative Party, which won 31 percent of the white vote in September's parliamentary elections, said the meeting represented a de facto legalization of the ANC. 
The Conservative leader, An­dries Treurnicht, condemned de Klerk for meeting the leader of "a banned terrorist organiza­tion" and said the president underestimated whites' desire to retain full political sovereignty. 
The anti-apartheid Demo­cratic Party welcomed the 
meeting and said de Klerk should take the further step of agreeing to talks with the ANC's exiled leadership. 
There was no immediate re­action from the ANC to Wednesday's meeting. Tom Se­bina, a spokesman at head­quarters in Lusaka, Zambia, said he might have a statement Thursday after consulting with his superiors. 
In Washington, State De­partment spokesman Richard Boucher said, "We applaud the meeting" between Mandela and de Klerk. 


The Observer Thursday, December 14, 1989
page 8 



Class. 
continuP<'I from page 14 
Flo. oh my Flo. I hope you have good time in London next semester. Now I won"t have anyone to yell "HI FLO!!" to, unless News hires someone else named Flo. You bet1er come back next year Love, your favorite accent chick 
DOBARDAN!! 

A big thank you to all who made my 21st birthday the best one ever (especially all those wonderful women of Wa:tsh)!!l You guys are the best! Love you lots!! 
Maria J. 

JUGS LIVES!!!!!!!!!!!!!JUGS 
.. 
LIVES!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Jeannie· I can·t wait to get you under the mistletoe! Love always, SNOUT xoxoxoxo 
Merry Christmas and Happy New 
Year Mary and Sunshine! 
Remember in the immortal words 
of Clarence the Angel: 

No man is a failure who has 
friends! 
Love.

AP Photo Molly
Queen of light 

Nobel Physics laureate Norman Ramsey and his wife, Ellie Welch Ramsey, listen to Queen of Lights, 
Dear?. 

Thank you for the 12 Days of 
Christmas. Who are you? 
Jeanette Kohn (middle) who sings the Santa Lucia song for them while they are still in their hotel bed 
Wednesday morning. This is a December 13 tradition that the Queen of light will come m the Swedish 
winter night. 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
The amendment passed on the second vot11 because voting procedures stale that absten­tions are not counted. There­fore. the 15 in favor. out of a total of 19 voting "yes" or "no," exceeded the required two­thirds. 
"I can't understand why the prnsidents were upset," Toohey said. "I understand that they want to bn taken seriously, but first thern are some internal things to be done before we can be taken seriously." 
Breslin said he is "in favor of IIPC taking an active role in trying to gain more credibility." However, he said, "the way they went about it was wrong." 
Tlw way in which IIPC can be­come more involved in Student Government involves clarifying their role in general, and in amendment procedures, ac­l:ording to Breslin. Such clarifi­cation would improve what is already a good working rela­tionship between the two groups. hP said. 
According to Bettnncourt, "In 
The Observer 

the future, we (HPC) would like to be involved in all aspects of Student Government." 
The amendment was pre­sented to IIPC by Judicial Board Coordinator Vinnie Sanchez at the Dec. 5 meeting. Members of I!PC then had a week to voice CIJflcerns or opposition before the Senate meeting. According to Breslin, no concerns were brought to him or Sanchez. 
At Monday's Senate meeting, four members of IIPC wern pre­sent for the unanimous vote. To pass an amendment to the un­dergraduate constitution. both the Senate and JIPC must ap­prowJ. 
LAURA LAURA LAURA'""''" 
HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAYIIIIIII 
SATURDAY. DEC. 161S LAURA BUTMAN"S BIRTHDAY. So call her up and wish her a Happy Birthday. I bet she won"t be studying on Sal. mghl. so lind her and fUSt try to dnnk her under the tablef!!!!! 
Murphy. McDonough, & Kristi·· Good luck in London & Cairo next semester. 1"11 miss you! I had a lot of fun in 303 with you. Love. KLD 
Watch out Murph. London has huge spiders·even bigger than Scott"s!! 
Cots and Jules. 

It's been a great semester ·· 
we'll miss you lots while you·re in 
London. Don't forget 
to write! 

Lodagove Udagus 
To: Joe. Brian. Barney, & Damian. It was a pleasure dining with you. We will have to do it more next semester. Good Luck on your exams and have a relaxing X·mas break. Barney· We hope Santa leaves you many tank tops to adorn your well built body. Joe· We hope Santa brings you a clock so you will be on time for your dining engagements. Brian· For you we hope Santa makes reservations for you in sunny Miami because we are not going to the Orange Bowl. But if we were· remember. our room is your room!!!!! Merry Christmas. Lisa. Katie. Molly. Jeannie. Molly. & Debbie 
MERRY CHRISTMAS EVERYONE' LOVE. JOE Z. 
I Desperately need a ride to Richmond Va. Will share expense. Colin X4057 
Happy Birthday Tim Flintofflll Now your 21 !!!!!!(God help us.) Joe Tim Jeff Rich AI Tomas. 
have a happy 21st! (don"! let us find you passed out on the frig again!) Pary.Meggie.Patty 
GOOD LUCK IN WASHINGTON to 
Mary Garino, Tricia Grohman and 
Karen Newlove 

"One of the most important things about working with Stu­dent Government is working with them, not against them," Toohey said. 
Breslin said that HPC mem­bers were apparently concerned that eliminating the office of the Ombudsmen would place more power in the hands of the Judicial Coordinator. 
According to the amendment, the primary duty of the Om­budsmen, running elections. would fall under the Judicial Board, but would be assumed by the Ombudsmen Election Committee and not the coordi­nator. 
KK 

DJ-Next time you come in at 12:10 in the morning·please have yourself properly dressed!!!! Signed. Your concerned and embarassed roomies 
PACO·BARTY ·MAHOV Here·s to ND"s coolest room· mates. Thanx for letting me ""throw out my anchor"". Best of luck next semester. You guys really are '"the s ". Finally: Paco. go get her. 
To the rocking quint+ 1. Good luck this upcoming week on finals. Have a very Merry Christmas' 1"11 miss you all over break. Get psyched for many post New Year"s and B-day parties!!!!! Love. Molly 
Jeanne your Christmas present is having me as a roomate' Lots of Love. Katie 



NOTRE DAME PARENTS 
HAVE YOUR SON OR DAUGHTER LIVE IN A CONDOMINIUM WHILE AT SCHOOL *1 mile from Notre Dame *New Construction *Tax Abatement *Security Systems *A Profitable Investment *Many Tax Benefits 
call 
TARIPP DEVELOPMENT CORP. 
Contact Christopher Matteo 
(219) 232-8256 

FAMILY SKATE NIGHT 
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15 
5:30 ·7:45PM 
JACC ICE RINK 
A VISIT FROM SANTA GAMES REFRESHMENTS 

FUN FOR THE WHOLE FAMILY 
FREE SKATE RENTALS WHILE THEY LAST 
Business
Thursday, December 14, 1989 page 9 
THE MONEY DECADE Biggest Buyouts Top 10 mergers and acquisitions  
Company Acquired by Cost in billions  
RJR Nabisco Kohlberg Kravis $24.5 Roberts SmithKiine Beckman­$16.0 Beecham Group (merger) Warner Communications Time Inc. $14.0 ·····--··· Bristol-Myers­-$11.0 Squibb Corp. (merger) Gulf Oil Socal $13.4 Kraft Philip Morris Cos. $12.9 Getty Oil Texaco -$10.1 Standard Oil (45 percent interest) British Petroleum -$7.9 ........... Conoco DuPont -$7.4 Federated Department Stores Campeau Corp. -$6.6 ·-· ·-­ 

THE MONEY DECADE 
Average Wages 
-.-­

Production or non-supervisory workers on private 
1 

non-agricultural payrolls 
hourly wage 

'80 '89 

• Prelimmary Oct.. seasonally adjusted 
RUSSIA 
Intercollegiate Tour , July 1990 
Led by Prof. James Butterfield (PHd, Notre Dame) 
For information contact: Western Michigan 0. Office of International Affairs Kalamazoo, MI 49008 Tel. toll free 1-800-876-3951 


Japanese business gift-giving, ends in bribery trial for Nippon 
TOKYO (AP) -The former chairman of Japan's largest company told a court Wednesday he was engaging in a normal Japanese busi­ness deal, not being bribed, when he accepted discount-priced stocks from a firm accused of buying favors. 
The trial of Hisashi Shinto, 79, former chairman of Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp., which began Wednesday in Tokyo District Court, is the fourth of five scheduled trials in the Recruit bribery scandal. 
Defendants in the fifth trial, to begin Friday, are Hiromasa Ezoe, founder and· former chairman of the Recruit Co. information services conglomerate, and two politicians accused of accepting bribes. A total of 12 defendants are charged with bribery and could face five years in prison each if convicted. 
Ezoe's company allegedly tried to win favors and influencejn the top ranks of politics, business and the bureaucracy. The Recruit scandal and trials have raised many questions about political gift-giving, business practices and the close ties between government and business in Japan. 
Parliament gave final approval Wednesday to legis­lation providing punishment for politicians who make donations at weddings, funerals and other events in their election districts without attending the event. 
Politicials  have  said  
constituents  expect  such  
donations.  

Under the new law, which· takes effect Feb. 1, violators can be sentenced to a year in prison or fined up to 200,000 yen ($1 ,390). 
Shinto, who testified before Judge Ken Toyoda in the no-jury trial, accepted the prosecution's factual allegations that he made about 21 million yen ($145,000) in 1986 by buying shares in a Recruit subsidiary at a below-market price before they were offered to the public. 
"I accepted the offer of shares, but I never regarded it as a bribe," Shinto said. He added that, during his business c.areer, other companies had offered him similar shares as a sign of trust and longterm ties. 
"Rejecting such an offer is considered rude in Japan," he said. 
Shinto denied doing special favors for Recruit. The prosecution alleged that Recruit got favorable terms 
on  telephone  lines,  
maintenance  and  other  
services.  


Retailers' sales rise, Christmas comes early 


WASHINGTON (AP) -U.S. retailers' sales rebounded in November, the government said Wednesday in a report analysts saw as showing stronger-than­expected Christmas buying and less chance of a recession. 
The 0.8 percent increase, the biggest in four months, "clearly signals that the economy is resilient," said Richard Hahn, chief economist for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. "Fears of a poor Christmas retail season should abate with this report." 

"It's clearly stronger than was expected," said David Jones, an economist with Aubrey L. Lanston & Co., a New York government securities dealer. "As long as spending holds up, there's no threat of a recession." 
The Commerce Department said that sales rose to a sea­sonally adjusted $144.6 billion in November after plummeting 
1.3 percent in October, when they were driven down by skidding automobile sales. The October sales were revised after 
100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA Featuring Friclcry night seafood buffet ancl Sunclcry brunch 219-259-9925 
"'.

Week-end Liturgical Schedule at Stepan Saturday. December 16 Eucharist 5:00 p.m. at Stepan Center. Rev. Daniel Jenky, CSC presider. Notre Dame Women's Choir. 
Sunday. December 17 Eucharist 10:00 a.m. at Stepan Center. Rev. Daniel Jenky, CSC presider. Notre Dame Orchestra and Liturgical Choir. 
Eucharist 11 :45 a.m. at Stepan Center. Rev. Daniel Jenky, CSC presider. Notre Dame Folk Choir. , 
~ m 

The Irish Princess turns 22 
Happy B-day Marianne Ryan 
Love, Lynn, Liz, Peg and Sue 

originally being reported to 
have fallen 1 percent. 
Many economists were ex­pecting only a weak improve­ment in November since unit car sales fell again in Novem­ber. 
Sandra Shaber, an economist with the Futures Group in Washington, said the 0.5 per­cent increase in the automotive category probably reflected an increase in pric.es, not sales. Excluding the auto category, the report was even more positive, showing a 0. 9 percent advance. 
Jones suggested a shift in Christmas-present buying patterns might have con­tributed to the November strength and might mean more moderate growth this month. 
"We're getting more and more spending in the last week of November and less in the first weeks of December," he said. "The way to measure the Christmas season now is to average the November and December spending patterns." 
And Shaber added, "It's taken a lot of price-slashing to get those sales. So even if dollar sales are decent this Christmas, it's unclear whether the profits will be so great." 
Hetail sales account for about one-third of the nation's economic aetivity, and David Wyss, senior financial economist for DRIMcGraw-llill in Lexington. Mass., said the stronger l\ovember report caused him to boost his esti­mate of overall growth. 
Wyss said if strong sales continue in December, the gross national product could increase at a 1 percent rate in the final quarter of the year instead of the 0.5 percent he had been predicting. 
"This relieves the worries that the fourth quarter could turn into a negative quarter," he said. 
There had been concern that Christmas spending would be held back by a slowing econ­omy, reflecting Federal Reserve policy of holding down inflation by tightening credit. 

Viewpoint
page 10 Thursday, December 14, 1989 

Ihe---Obse--.L~Y=-._,.A.-,~~­
~ -­

P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly 

Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Reg1s Coccia  Rich Iannelli  
Exec. News Editor  Matthew Gallagher  Advertising Manager  Molly Killen  
Viewpoint Editor  Dave Bruner  Ad Design Manager  ... Shannon Roach  
Sports Editor  Theresa Kelly  Production Manager  ..... Alison Cocks  
Accent Editor  John Bias•  Systems Mgr  .Bernard Brenn1nkmeyer  
Photo Editor  Enc Ba1ley  OTS Director  Angela Bellanca  
Saint Mary's Editor  Christine G1ll  Controller....  . ...Anne L1ndner  

The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi· ty of Notre Dame duLac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol· 1c1es of the admm1strat1on of 811her 1nSt1tut•on. The news is reported as accurately and ob· Ject1vely as poss1ble Uns•gned editonals represent the opinion of the majority of the follow1ng Ed•tor·•n·Ch•ef. Manag1ng Editor. Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Sports Ed1tor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters. and the lns1de Column present the v•ews of the" authors. Column space is available to all members ot the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, •s encouraged 
Final exams only test one's cramming skills 

The symptoms are surfacing rapidly: "War and Peace" can be read in its entirety while waiting for a computer at any of the labs, and the rush is on for those coveted library car­rels. All the evidence points out that final exams are quickly approaching. 
This is the time of year that students start figuring out ex­actly how many hours they will need to learn an entire semester of caleulus by them­selves. I can say from experi­nnce that it is definitely more than 12. Students are buying "Cliff Notes" like they am going out of styli~ (that would be a sad day). Now is the time to own stock in a caffeine com­pany. All this frenzy for one do-or-die test in each dass. It s1~ems a little ridiculous. 
The point is. finals no longer fill the purpose for which they 

Colleen Cronin Asst. Accent Editor 
were originated. They do not measure how much a student has learned, but how much in­formation he can cram into his brain the night before. It is practically guaranteed he will forget that information as soon as the test is completed. So much information is asked for in these finals that even those who diligently keep up through the semester are known to be studying until 3 a.m. 
Does a student really learn th1~ class material by having only two tests-a midterm and a final-during the semester? Not much room or time is al­lowed for improvement if per­chance the midterm is not an acceptable grade. There must be a more logical and accurate method of measuring a stu­dent's knowledge of material. Several suggestions come to mind: 
•What about not giving the class a final exam? 
Literature classes could have a paper instead, incorporating the books covered. Cramming has no place here-no need to memorize the order of 20th century American authors. Ei­ther the student knows the ma­terial or he does not. 
•What about giving more tests throughout the semester? 
This would be ideal for classes where papers are not appropriate. The student would have more opportunities to show his learning progess and correct ·his errors. The student could then be graded on his progress and improve­ment during the course of the semester. In classes where the subject matter builds upon it­self. such as calculus, this method would be more sensibh~. 
•What about a final that only helps the student? 
Teachers could use the grade only in borderline cases, or cases where the student finally grasped the material late in the semester. Those students who are familiar with the material and have proved it on earlier tests need not take the final­the proof of knowledge is al­ready there. Let those who need another grade take the fi­nal. 
Any one of these options would not lead the student to study less. Instead it would give him an incentive to study regularly throughout the entire semester, as he would be re­warded with an exemption from a final. lie would also know that he would not have a final as his last hope, his swan song, his escape from a semester of not going to class. There would be no caffeine­and sugar-induced all-nighters. and students would retain the information for a greater pe­riod of time. 
Teachers would also benefit. If a teacher taught the dass well, the students would learn and do well on the tests (or pa­pers). There would be no finals for the teacher to grade, and he would also know that his stu­dents learned throughout the semester, as they should, and not just in one night. 
Colleen Cronin is a junior American .')tudies major and is an assistant Accent editor at The Obsenwr. 
LETTERS 

Bag checks at the 'Brare treat all as 'potential thieves' 
/)ear Hditor: practiced only in the llesburgh which is based on suspicion and I write to bring the attention Library entrance. policing, that is to blame. Be-of everyone concerned to a 
sides treating everyone as a po­
problem which exists in the 

I have had the misfortune of tential thief and challenging the Ilesburgh Library. The custom witnessing such incidents quite moral integrity of people, this of showing thn bags to the se­a few times now. Once the system also pries into our pri­
curity guards while leaving the guard asked a women out of vacy. We may be carrying any

library gives rise to connicts suspicion to pull out all the number of personal things in 
and emotional outbursts at books from her bag. She said our bags which we may not times. 
she had just shown them all want others to s1~e. 
only a few seconds before but Considering all these things, I 
It is quite understandable why had to reenter in order to drop would like to request that the we should show the guards the a book in the return slot. The concerned authorities abolish date-slips of the books we guard just ignored her expla­this system. We would happilycheck out; but it is really not nation, asked her if she was show the guards the books we clear why we should show the any different from the others check out. An alternative: saybags to them. The detectors we and pulled out all the books the installation of more effi­pass through can very well de­himself. They all turned out to cient detectors or x-ray ma­tect and sound alarms if we try be inter-library loan books. Be­chines, is needed to avoid the to smuggle books out of the li­ing offended, she kicked the manual search of bags. brary illegally. Moreover. the wall and shouted "I hate this S.P. l!dayakumarguards' ritual peep into the system, I hate it!" Peace Studies bags cannot prevent an incon­In any case, the guards are Graduate Student siderate person from tearing not to blame. It is the system, Dec. 11, 1989 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 


Viewpoint
Thursday, December 14, 1989 
page 11 

Day of Reflection helps answer life's questions 
By Cindy Petrites 
I have been trying to reflect for about a month now on what I gained from the Day of Re­flection and Prayer held by Fatlwr llnnri Nouwen at the Center for Social Concerns. 
At first I think what stopped me was the faet that I wanted to write something so good and so touehing that everyone who rnad my artiel!~ would say, "Wow!" and then scurry over to tlw CSC to do a Summer Serviee Projeet, or lwlp the homeless, or visit 1.'/\rehe. I wanted to write something inspirational that would motivate people to serve, to want to serve, to rec­ognize the value of service. The problem is, I can't do that. 
First of all, even if I eould, eonvincing people that service is a valuable thing isn't really what's needed. Most people, particularly people on this campus, reeognize the value the service. 
The majority knows, or at least has heard, that service can be a beautiful, enriching, opening experience through whieh you ean touch others and be touehed. Most people realize that service can benefit the "server" just as much as the one being served, and that ser­vice is one way of getting in touch with other people, God and yourself. But. to tell the truth, that's not what I gained from the Day of Reflection and Prayer. 

Silence and the opportunity to reflect and pray were what I received that day. It offered me a chance to get involved in ser­vice if I wanted to, but more than that, the chance to stop and say, "Hey! What am I doing with my life? What kind of per­son am I? What are my priori­ties? Where am I going?" 
Those are tough questions, and the answers are different for everyone. ThP same is true for serviee. Though a spirit of love is the common motivation 
LETTERS 

Santa lives through love for children 
Dear Editor: 
Hecently, I received a rather distressing call from a friend of mine at Notre Dame. Appar­ently, an artiele appeared in The Observer in which the au­thor made a bold assertion that Santa Claus did not exist. 
I. for one, disagree, at least in part. 
I really do exist. I exist in spirit and not in an individual body. However, this does not make my existence any less real. 
"Santa Claus" has taken many forms over the years. The most famous "santas" of all were the three Wise Men. It was their faith that led them to 

a small stable in Bethlehem It is not really important where they brought presents to whether I exist in my legendary The Child on the first form or not. What is important Christmas (actually Epiphany). is that I exist for the children. The best "santas" were the You see, believing in Santa is shepherds. They brought the part of believing in Christ. Chil­greatest gift of all-them­dren, like most adults, don't selves. They had nothing to really understand love. bring to The Child, so they Through Santa they learn that brought their love and someone can give a gift for no adoration. other reason than love. No 
Santa Claus, in the red suit, strings. No conditions. was born out of a legend and Through this, children can then continues to live in that form start to understand God's love today. The legend is about a for His children that prompted man who would bring gifts to Him to give His Son. the ehildren. Santa, in the suit, Adults will bend over back­is a symbol of the faithful wards to keep a child's belief in bringing gifts to The Child as Santa alive, not because they he is found in the children. For understand, but because they it is in ehildren that Christ is know it is important to believe. most visible. ~ believe it would be hard to say 
Church and God clearly forbid the celebration of the Mass by women 
Dear Editor: the sake of advocating the or­
It saddens .me to know that dination or women, especially some people on this campus when this has clearly been for­have forgotte·n that the center bidden by the Pope, who repre­of Catholic life is the Holy sents God on Earth. Women do Eueharist a11d that without it have a significant role in the we would not be able to go on Church, but as His Holiness be­trying to live a good life. lieves, it is not to serve God as 
The strength we get from the priests. This does not make Saerament of Communion is them less important or inferior. immeasurable since it is God Himself we receive and not a Professor Power's proposal piece of bread that symbolizes undermines of the true nature Him. Thus. logically we would of the Catholic spirit since it expect that a Catholic university emphasizes the desire of a mis­such as Notre Dame would guided group of individuals begin its academic year cele­over the Eucharist, where God brating a Mass for its students. is present in substance. Notre 
Nonetheless, Professor Clark Dame as a Catholic institution Power, in his letter to the editor should uphold the determina­(The Observer, Dec. 8), argues tions of the Church as "mother that a "non-Eucharist service and teacher" rather than ac­of the Word presided by cepting the ideas of self-pro­women" should be celebrated claimed "enlightened" people. instead of our traditional Mass. I find it indeed "absurd" and Alfonso Aguilar "ridiculous" that the Holy Flanner Hall Communion not be served for Dec. 8, 1989 
Montreal massacre invokes shocking reactions at NO 
Dear Editor: one has to consider the 
With regard to the recent implications of such attitudes tragedy in Montreal, I assumed made even in jest. Joking is one most reactions would be ones very strong way to reinforce of outrage and anger. The stereotypes, prejudices or any senseless taking of life com­derogatory messages. bined with the obvious judg­In this case, by joking about ments of a group of people such a sad and serious crime, based on gender left me dis­these students were condoning gusted, angry and filled with violence against women. despair. Are these actions valid Speaking out of ignorance, they reflections of acceptable norms failed to recognize the amount of behavior? · of suffering that those women 
Much to my amazement, I and their families go through. was confronted soon after the The societal norm they enforce massacre with radically in jest is that it is acceptable to different interpretations of the hurt a woman if she is a horror. I was unfortunate feminist. enough to overhear this con­The Notre Dame community 
versation between two Notre exhibits its deep caring in such Dame students: organizations as Overseas De­
A: "Did you see that story velopment Network, Anti­
about the guy who killed a Apartheid, Pax Christi. the bunch of women in Montreal?" Neighborhood Help-Study pro­
B: "Yeah, that was great, gram and the Logan Center for wasn't it!" example. These organizations 
A: "Right, and they were a fight against the crude, bunch of feminist women, too." misinformed attitudes that 
B: "And that is the best way occur even in jest. This too, they were!!" community should be proud 
A: "Boy, I'm going to send that such people abound on its that guy fan mail." campus. 
Believing this was an isolated While recognizing all the incident on the campus, I great things that happen here, shared my story with a gender if this is a community growing studies class that I am enrolled in understanding and 
in. I was informed, however, compassion, stereotypical atti­that I was not the only one who tudes must not be allowed to had experienced such feelings flourish. Some would like to 
from Notre Dame students change the world; I'd be happy concerning this tragedy. just starting at home. 
While obviously these two Patrick L. Havel students did not really wish Zahm Hall harm on these, or any women, Dec. 11. 1989 that the world is somehow worse off because adults do something for children simply out of love. 
Finally, have any of you really proven that I don't mount a sleigh on Christmas Eve and visit children around the world? It is said that faith can move mountains. If so, maybe faith is strong enough to give spirit a body for one moment. And in that moment is the power to give children of all ages a gift of love. 
Peace be with you and Merry Christmas! 
Santa 

(This letter was submitted to The Observer by Mark Rabogli­atti. Notre Dame Law School.) 
ground for all service, there are as many different ways to serve as there are people. Sure, the opportunities to serve are there-the homeless, sick, lonely, poor, uneducated, hand­icapped, the roommate, the friend-but it takes a personal 'yes' in order to turn that op­portunity into reality. 
Sometimes in our hectie lives what we need isn't another per­son telling us what to do or what we should be doing or how good it would be to do this or that, but the time to think 
and  make  these  choiees  for  
ourselves.  
Service  is only  an  outward  

manifestation of love that al­
ready exists on the inside. It cannot be forced or coerced or coddled out of someone. To serve is a very personal deci­sion, and one that, like all seri­ous decisions. merits reflection and prayer. Then, and only then, can you serve, beeause you discover that service does not come from the need and suffering which lie outside, but from the love and desire to share that love whieh lies within. 
Cindy Petrites is a senior American Studies and French major. This column was submit­ted by the Center for Social Concerns. 


OUTGRINC~ING -rn~ GRIN<]\ 
------~­
·~-------~------------·---~-------­
Ac
Thu , December 14, 1989 

Destination: 









South Florida hot spots for after the bowl 
CHRISTINE WALSH enjoy the Acapulco, an intimatn comprised of a rnstaurant. ALISON COCKS Mexican restaurant with lounge arna and bar. Fiftins accent writers sombreros adorning adobe tunns rPvPrberatn throughout walls. Patrons should not the first lloor, inviting gunsts 
Irish supporters can expect worry if business is rather in, whern they arn surpris11d by to spend a memorable New slow; the food is excellent, if the black and whit11-ehecknd tile Year's in Miami. Visitors can undiscovered by the majority of on the lloor of the lobby whern enjoy the excellent restaurants, the population. Diners are the owner has chosen to display hotels, and night spots found in greeted with complimentary some of his classic car eollec­the city and its surrounding nacho chips and a spicy salsa tion. A huge picture of a pink areas knowing that die-hard and attentive, friendly service. Cadillac Eldorado convertible University of Miami fans will be The steak fajitas were flavorful painted on the bottom of the 
few more no one has heard of. in New Orleans for the Sugar and are highly recommended. outdoor pool continues the In addition, there is a good Bowl. Beer drinkers will appreciate theme. sPiection of draught and bot­Customers wait in lines for up the selection of Mexican tled beers. One of our compan­to two hours to dine at Joe's imports served in frosted mugs. The scene of the pre-game ions, a harsh margarita critic, Stone Crab Restaurant, one of pep rally, thn FontainebiPau commented favorably on Miami's unforgettable seafood The Coconut Grove, south of llilton Hesort and Spa on Penrod's rendition of this fa­restaurants. Located at 227 Coral Gables, is strictly a win­Collins Ave. in Miami Beach, mous drink. Biscayne Street, on South dow-shopper's paradise. Lo­might pleasn fans in search of 
We sampled several selections Miami Beach, Joe's is famous cated indoors and built in an ritzier aceomrnodations. Th11 from the extensive appetizer for stone crabs of all sizes, and atrium style with ceramic tiles, gigantic hotel, undoubtedly the mnnu, notably the quesadilla, also offers an extensive seafood plants, and waterfalls, the sight for many conventions, which won such rave reviews menu. Joe's opens with the sea­Grove features expensive bou­overlooks the b11ach, and is not that we immediately ordered sonal arrival of the stone crabs tiques and the Mayfair I louse, a far from the causeway con­seconds. The quesadilla to South Florida in October, posh restaurant and hotel necting Miami Bnaeh to thn eity eombilwd beef and rhieken with and stays open through May. which combines English of Miami, and of' cours11, thn three kinds of chel'se, Lunch or dinner at Joe's is an antiques with an oriental twist Orange Bowl. sandwiehl'd bc>twc>c>n two layers expensive, but worthwhile in­for a stunning efl'ect. The of soft !lour tortillas. vestment. Patrons should arrive Mayfair's posh atmosphere The Fort Laudnrdale arna, 
A gnnerous portion of nachos as early as possible, to beat the make it an excellent choice for always attractive to eollngn arrived smothnred in ground lines, since reservations are not a semi-formal family gather­students during spring break, beef, jalapeno peppers, accepted. Sunbathers beware! ing. is about 45 minutes north of tornatcws, chnese, guacamole Dress is casual. but shorts are the Miami area and off'nrs and salsa and was received not permitted. A quick drive over to Miami similar attractions to the enthusiastically. The chicken Beach yields the Bal Harbour Greater Miami area: an abun­wings, rolled in batter and The Tiger Tiger Teahouse is a Shops, if Coconut Grove fails to dance of beachns, shopping served with a bleu cheese more moderately-priced al­satisfy a shopper's appetite. malls, restaurants and bars. drc1ssing, were also excellent. ternative for patrons who Those who remain undaunted Orlando, horne of Walt Disney 
would prefer to trade seafood by the optional valet parking World, is a few hours' drive 
Penrod's is a bargain by any for Chinese cuisine. This enjoy this indoor/outdoor mall away and a perfect stop for a standards. The appetizers. restaurant, located in the (the center court is rootless) tourist with a day or two to which made a satisfying meal in Bakery Center, is the winner of for all its worth. Students with spare. We drove four hours themselves, and several rounds several awards for its striking a few pennies to spend can each way in one night to enjoy of drinks for four came to less contemporary Chinese decor. purchase a $1500 denim jacket the beautiful sunsets, bnaches than $60. Chinese food fans need not or a $350,000 diamond ring for and relaxed nightlifn of Key 
restrict themselves to one a 'significant other.' West, a mere 90 miles' swim­
Penrod's also boasts a sizable selection on Sunday nights, ming or water-skiing distance stretch of beach, a swimming when the standard all-you-can­"Let the good times roll" is from Cuba. pool and volleyball nets for its eat appetizer buffet is the motto of the Quality Inn daytime patrons, who ean expanded to include entrees. All Surfside Beach Motel on Miami There's never a lack of things arrive as early as 10 a.m. and in our party opted for it, and Beach. Anyone with a passion to do for the adventurous road­stay until the :~ a.m. dosing sampled the honey garlic for Fifties paraphernalia, tripper in the Miami area. Visi­
time (5 a.m. on weekends). chicken, moo shu pork, egg particularly automobiles from tors to the "only V.S. city Anyone who finds tickets to the rolls, spare ribs and fried rice the Fifties will find Nirvana conceived by a woman Orange Bowl difficult to for $9 per person. here. Each room is named after (Clevelander Julia Tuttle)," can procure will lind a visit to an automobile, and the car escape from frigid Midwest 
Penrod's to watch tho gamn an Enchilada fans exhausted motif runs rampant in the cor­winters and share some holiday ample form of eompc1nsation. with the Chi-Chi's chain will ridors. The ground floor is cheer under the sun. 



ALISON COCKS CHRISTINE WALSH 
IICTPnl WrilPrS 
Imagine a multi-level, multi­million-dollar playground that cheeks ID's. The proprietors of Penrod's Beach Club, on South Miami B11ach, did. The result is a bar/nightclub which serves excellent food and drinks, and fpatures a multi-level dance lloor with a laser show. 
Penrod's became the site of an unofficial student pep rally the night before the Notre Dame-Miami game as Notre Dame students congregated thnrn following the alumni dub's disappointing effort at thP Fountairwbleu lintel. We arrived bPforn 10 p.m. and consPquently found that the modest eover charge was not ynt in effect, making Penrod's an overall better buy than the $6 alumni dub pep rally and reception. 
It may be an exercise in Palm Beach decadence to avail orws11lf of the valet parking, but f11el free to take advantage of the abundant parking along the streets a block or two from Penrod's. 
The employees wern friendly, and the service remainPd prompt despite the constant inllux of students and frequent renditions of the Vietory March. Choruses of loud boos resounded each time the Miami llurricarws appeared on one of the many TV screens surrounding the bar. 
The barwnders can make every drink imaginable, and a 

nt 
Holiday traditions reflect family life 
KELLEY TUTHILL For example, Allen suggested accent writer that when a couple gets mar­ried they might have different 

Ever wonder why some people family rituals in regard to when open gifts Christmas Eve rather Christmas presents should be than Christmas Day? Holiday opened. "On the surface, this traditions are passed down and sounds so trivial, and yet in altered through families, and practice, it can become such an compromise is important espe­emotional issue because each cially when new families begin person thinks that theirs is the 
or families experience a right way to do it." even if it's the only time she change. If a new couple or a new cooks all year. She added that what they do to meet the new change, and you have to able family is interested in establish­it's possible that families will situations," said Allen. to come to terms with that and 
"It's as though we've taken ing a new identity. then they have a conscious reversal of Allen told a story of a mother you have to make adjustments this particular season, for must find a way of creating gender roles. and daughter who were aban­in terms of creating your own whatever reason, and said this new and unique rituals. Allen "I think it's interesting that if doned by the father in the rituals and traditions in re­is when we're going to celebrate said that there has to be a you think about men's and months before Christmas. In sponse to those changes," said the idea of family and closeness compromise between the fam­women's traditional spheres as response to his actions, the Allen. and belonging to a group in a ily-formed ideas of each indi­being public versus private, mother and daughter changed way that we don't do the rest of vidual. home versus world, that the fa­Christmas completely that year. College students who don't the year," says Barbara Allen. ther of the family is the one They bought a different type of get home until December 21 associate professor of A family's division of labor who goes out into the world tree, new ornaments and miss a lot of holiday rituals American Studies and specialist changes at Christmas. "It and brings home the tree, and changed the menu because they such as picking out the in family folklore and oral seems to me if you look at the he is associated with the out­became a different unit. Christmas trees and decorat­history. "What I'm interested in way traditional division of la­side. And the mother is associ­ing. "You come home, and it's is tlw ways in which people use bor along gender lines has gone ated with the inside, so once the In regard to college students already done," said Allen. ritual to express a sense of and how some of those divi­tree gets into the house and is going home for Christmas, she Instead of feeling left out, she themselves in the present." sions of labor are breaking set up, then she takes over or believes that they want every­suggests that the student start 
down, I think you see are­the children take over," said thing to be exactly the same as a new tradition created as a re­
The family is at the heart of emergence of them at Allen. it was before they left. This is sult of being away from the Christmas traditions, and Christmas time because She said that a lot of symbol­family like a new ornament. therefore when families change, Christmas is a time to maintain ism of the roles people play true because changes might "At the root of all of it is and so must rituals. "My special in­continuity with the past, and within the family structure are signal that the child is no the purpose behind all of that -.. tmest is family folklore, family one of the ways of doing so is played out at Christmas time longer a part of the family in ritualizing and patterning and traditions. and my interest in to do things always the same and may not be apparent or the same way as they were be­tradition is to create a sense of that is in the way people use way every year," Allen said. may be all mixed up during the fore, said Allen. She said it can identity for family members, traditions of various forms rest of the year. be very difficult for young peo­that is, a sense of their related­whether they be rituals or pho­For example, Allen speculates "When the structure of the ple to recognize the changes ness to each other and a sense tographs or stories ... to create that if a mother has always family changes, whether it's taking place in their families. of identity for individual mem­a sense o~. identities among cooked Christmas dinner, she through marriage or the addi­"We may think that things go bers within that context," said members. probably will continue to do so tion of a new baby or divorce on the same way every year, but Allen. 
Keeping Christ in Christmas as a Jewish feast 
Curmudgeons like me can be 
Jesuit who I'm using as a cata­this way, humanity comes to prophets too; and that's why I lyst. cast itself in the role of the have a good time in December, Father Robert Griffin For many of us at Notre child, alternately requiring 
telling folk-Catholics how to Dame, our faith experiences as punishment and leniency. If keep Christ in Christmas. Letters to o Lonely God Catholics are becoming more ability to meet human needs is Christians tend to celebrate the and more emotional; it could be taken to be the measure of Saviour's birth badly, even in that we're suffering from a God's omnipotence, then the the churches. I'm not referring when He comes again to take Therese clung to this idea with surfeit of the theology of love. apparent failure on God's part to the commercialization of the home the "saved." unbreakable stubbornness. The Last night, I watched a film on to constantly provide for hu­feast by the heavy-handed use Do you want to keep Christ in only way it might be put into the sacrament of reconciliation man needs will eventually turn of credit cards; but to the sen­Christmas? Trust me then, for question was through the very put out by the Christophers. An into a ground for the denial of timentalization which tempts us I'm not the Grinch; therefore, I existence of God being put into emphasis was placed on God's God's existence. Nothing, after to cut our God down to the size recommend that you place question, and that is finally willingness to forgive our tres­all, is so volatile as the happi­of a baby, and to keep Him Dylan Thomas' "A Child's what happened. At the end of passes; with Him as my model, ness of the immature. there until He grows up to be Christmas in Wales" high on her life, when she experienced I should be willing to forgive Marc Chagall has a painting "Gentle Jesus. meek and mild," the reading list, as long as you Gethsemane and Calvary, the those who trespass against me. called the "White Crucifixion," the fleecy Lamb of God off a don't stop there. The Christmas "little way" of trust and child­So far, so good. The movie in which the crucified Christ is holy card; also known among sermon from T.S. Eliot's like love failed completely, for might have been more on the surrounded by scenes from fundamentalists as the personal "Murder in the Cathedral" is its center of reference disap­money with this insight from pogroms -Jews killed, syna­Savior who died on the cross in about martyrdom; you should peared; and the silent skies of Judaism: "The personal re­gogues burning, Torah scrolls my place. try it on for size. Keep the Auschwitz and Hiroshima sponsibility of one person to desecrated. Naked and exposed, 
The problem is, of course, sugar-plum fairies on their toes closed in on Therese. In her dy­another person is such that wearing only a prayer shawl to that the New Testament consis­and the fake Santas on the run; ing hour, joy came with the God cannot annul it... an of­cover his loins, Christ is on the tently teaches that Jesus suf­and after you've roasted chest­morning in a great, new world fense committed with regard to side of the victims. He has fered on behalf of humanity; it nuts on an open fire, temper that awaited the dawn of God's God is covered by the divine become the exemplar of the never says that He suffered in­the glow you get from Dickens' love. After eighteen months in pardon, but an offense that af­suffering, rejected Jews who stead of us. A Jesus viewed as "A Christmas Carol" with the the dark night of the soul like a fronts the human person is not have none but God to commit humanity's representative in­bleakness of Eliot's poem "The prisoner at Dachau, Therese covered by God...Evil is not a themselves to; and it should be volves us; He acts on our behalf Journey of the Magi." One of went to heaven as a child who mystical principle that can be a powerful experience for any in such a way as to restore our the Wise Men who went to grew up to be a saint, after her wiped away by means of a Christian to recognize the suf­relationship with God and to Bethlehem to do homage to the "little way" turned into the way ritual; it is an offense inflicted fering Jesus as the associate of our responsibility for humanity infant Jesus recalls in old age of the Cross. by one person on another per­suffering Jewry. and the world. A Jesus viewed the meaning of experience. The critics against curmud­son. No one, not even God, can A Jew will tell you that it is il­as humanity's substitute ex­If you really want to keep geons in holy orders are prob­take the place of the victim. A legitimate to interpret the im­cludes us; he settles the debt Christ in Christmas, keep the ably wondering, "What's the world in which forgiveness mense suffering undergone by humanity owes to God by ex­Passion and Death in mind as matter with Griffin, casting dominates becomes inhuman." the innocent Jews as a punish­empting everyone from what He you celebrate the Birth, and gloom on Christmas?" To tell Redemption, says the Jew, ment of sin coming from an did and suffered, and absolves keep in mind the sufferings of the truth, I just this minute fin­has become the center of the angry God. In no way do the us from our responsibilities for the saints. St. Therese of ished reading a book called, Christian faith. Christianity Jews deserve the suffering that each other and for the world. Lisieux adopted a spiritual "Loving the Torah More than tends to believe in God almost is inflicted on them. Far from The religions which stress the lifestyle which she called "the God?", by Franz Jozef van exclusively as Saviour; and for being angry at those who are substitutionary Victim tend to little way." She saw that the Beck, S.J. The book is not all its devoutness, this view suffering, God positively asso­be highly emotional. and they figure of the child, and the fa­about Christmas, but about runs a dreadful risk. For what ciates with them. In fact, it is 
love hymns which are theologi­ther-child relationship, was Judaism; and it's the source of is placed at the heart of the precisely their suffering that cal baby-talk. All their preach­central to the message of Jesus. many of the things I'm writing Christian faith is not the glory identifies the Jews as God's ing stresses revival or winning In this relationship, the father here. If, after reading the arti­of God, nor the glory of human­chosen people. "If you are not souls for the Saviour; that's all is entirely loving and full of del­cle, you see me as Scrooge, let ity made in God's image, but my Lord, then whose Lord are that matters, for they expect icate understanding. Against all your poor opinion extend only wounded humanity's need for that soon He will end the world other notions of the Deity, to me and not to the good wholeness and redemption. In see FEAST I page 7 
page 14 

The Observer Thursday, December 14, 1989 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. al the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 ro 3 p.m. at !he Saini. Mary's off1ce. Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifi~s IS _3 p.m. All class1heds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, mcludmg spaces. 
Classifieds 
LOST: 

605 St. Peter 5 Bedroom furnished 35 mm Vivitar Camera at the 
house for 5 or 6 available spring LAURA LAURA LAURA!!!!!!!!! "-->l.l. AREA BUS<--" APHI-Have fun pubbin' it in Lyons-Dillon Formal. Name is 
I NOTICES 

1990 call Elmer 288-3942 LOTS OF ROOM!! $95! Joni 2773 London! I'll miss you. Karin 
etched on the back. Please HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY!!!!!!! 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL or Janice 2646. MRS. COKER. 233-7009. 4 BR on N.D. AVE. FURNISHED.
return if found-Reward. 

CALL X2900. RESERVE NOW FOR AUGUST SATURDAY, DEC. 161S LAURA To Amy. Erica, Kelly, Mary, Meg. 
WORDPROCESSING '90! BUTMAN'S BIRTHDAY. So call Need a relaxing place to study? Nicole and everyone in 215 Holy 272-8827 259-7801 DAYS OR 255-5852 her up and wish her a Happy LAFORTUNE WILL BE OPEN Cross on Dec. 1st. Thanks for the LOST! 
EVENINGS AND WEEKENDS. Birthday. I bet she won't be 24HOURS. great party. We will really miss you TYPING AVAILABLE SUNDAY. DEC. 17-20.
Help. I have lost my studying on Sat. night, so find her guys!! Love Beth and Jan 287-4082 CONFIRMATION MEDAL Furnished Apt. near N.D. for next and just try to drink her under the Good luck with finals! with chain. ACC GYM 1 
semester.$140/MO.+UTIL 1 male table!!!!!! Desperately looking for ride to St. TEXTBOOKS needed.3 male roommates Louis, Quincy, IL or S.IA over
sentimental value Mike-x4057 

Happy Birthday Laura Butman! Xmas. Call 284-5071. Maureen PANDORA'S BOOKS Call Todd 232-5571 Love, Your endearing friends: IS IT TRUE? $$$ CORNER OF N.D. AVE. AND Jeanne, Sally-Sally . "little piggy" YES? 
BOUGHT AND SOLD already. LAFORTUNE OPEN 24 HOURS? 
LOST : Navy 1cream down coat at 

HOWARD 2 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS. and co. LAFORTUNE WILL BE OPEN LAST MINUTE CHRISTMAS 
NO Ave. Apls. If found, please call 

233-2342 272·6306 24 HOURS, DEC. 17-20 SHOPPING!! We have Christmas 
Whitney@ x-2744. Thanks. 

LOTS OF PAPERBACKS IN GOOD LUCK WITH FINALS! Computer Paper. Real Christmas STOCK! 7 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS. Trees and much more. The LOST at the Lyons-Dillon Formal: NEXT FALL OR SUMMER.272· Country Harvester. lower level TYPING SURVIVAL KITS ARE IN!
full-length, single 6306 LaFortune PICKUP & DELIVERY breasted, BLACK London Fog Maureen (Tuna Queen) and If your parents ordered you a 277-7406 topcoat. It had a pair of gray ARCO IRIS, an experiment in Michelle (loser). survival kit, please pick them I WUV MY WOW!. EH EH EH. 
----gloves and a red scarf in one cooperative living has one room Have an Awesome break!!!!! Good up before you leave for MEWWY CWISTMASII NASSAU & CANCUN lor Spring pocket. If you have it or found it, open for the Spring semester. luck on your papers!!!!!! Christmas Break from the Break '90 -Jeff X3686 PLEASE CALL ME! Inexpensive, close to campus. Call Merry Christmas! Information Desk, 1st Floor 
-Kathy @4326(SMC) Reward. MIKE x3501 232-3330. -Jeanne LaFortune. TO CHESTER, THE MARATHON SNUGGLER! THANK YOU ST. JUDE OVERSEAS JOBS. $900-2000 mo. 2 BEDROOM APT. NEAR ND. Roll TIDE, Roll!!! Summer,yr.round,AII Countries, All ARE YOU READY FOR ANOTHER 
233-7631/234-8743. HELP!!!!I'm desperate for a ride lo NEED RIDE Roll TIDE, Roll!!! Columbus, Canton, or Marietta 26 HOURS OF HEAVY 
fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx lo WASH. D.C. AREA leaving 52-IN04, Corona Del Mar CA areas. Please call 4902 SNUGGLING? Dec.22 Roll TIDE, Roll!!!
92625. 
FOR SALE

WILL SHARE EXPENSES! LOVE. PLEASE CALL JEN 284-4314 Roll TIDE, Roll!!! TO MY FAVORITE GEO MAJOR, 
FEDERAL,STATE AND CIVIL SNUGGLES. SERVICE JOBS! 
BUYING can be CHEAPER than Be wary of Monday, but be extra NOW HIRING THIS AREAl 
RENTING! INVEST in your careful on Thursday. You never $10,271 TO $84,157. 
FUTURE! Call MARILYN KULLER know what surprises await you !! ATIENTION GOVERNMENT IMMEDIATE OPENINGS! CALL 1-to DISCOVER how! REIMAX 100 Love, MAJORS!!!!!!!!!!!!!
BAM SANTA IS COMING 
SANTA IS COMING
315-733-6062 Realty, 255-5858, 234-6325 Mary
HAPPY BIRTHDAY GET YOUR PICTURE TAKEN 
EXT# F2382H FOR CURRENT From January 17th to 25th
WITH SANTA ON DEC. 14 
EMILY!!! LISTING. GOING TO THE ORANGE BOWL? FROM NOON-5PM IN ""SPECIAL CHRISTMAS SALE"" advice will available regarding government classes 
T Y'aU gonna R I HAVE A 1 WAY PLANE TICK. 4 LAFORTUNE
Help! Ride needed back to NO (i.e. schedule changes, etc.). 

0 have to slop 0 SALE. JAN 9 FROM MIAMI TO SANTA IS COMING Buy any flower at IRISH 
from Philly·Wilmington area 

R being drunk!!! S WASHINGTON/SALT. VERY GARDENS, get the second one Come to the Government 
after Xmas break. call Greg 

FREE!!! A perfect way to say, office (314 O'Shag) lor details X3254
0 A CHEAP! CALL 1511. Buy Observer Classifieds! 
love People will get the message. "Good luck on finals", or wish when you return from break. 
----------~--------------------------someone a "Happy Holiday 
MARIA "pump up !he jam" 
RIDERS NEEDED for travel from SB to San Diego-lv p.m. 1212o-any city near route ok­.-TYPING term 

CALL JAMES@ 237·9533! papers/reports/letters/resumes. 
Pick up & delivery available. 277­Earn $300-$500 per week reading5134 Cathy. 
books at home. Call1-615-473­7440 Ext. 8340 
FEDERAL. STATE AND CIVIL 
SERVICE JOBS! NOW HIRING Lost: Cross Felt Tip Pen bearing THIS AREA $10,271 TO $84,157. the AT&T logo. It has senlimental 
LOST/FOUND 
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS! CALL 1­
Value. If found please call Joe@ 315-733-6062 EXT#F2382H FOR x3804. CURRENT LISTING. REWARD!! REWARD!! REWARD!!! 
WANTED: Entrepreneurial students to work as marketing reps LOST: 8"gold herringbone bracelet 
on-campus for our MasterCard w/diamond cuts. If found please 
and Visa Card program as well as call Nancy 4 766. Senti menial. 
other popular student offers. Just REWARD! Most likely in Fisher or 
two to four flexible hours per week Dillon. with unlimited earnings potential! 
Applications being taken for HELP I!I Lost one brown leather January 1990 openings. Call bomber jacket Saturday nigh! at today: 1-800-821-1543. the Worm!! In !he pockets were my I.D.'s, HELP!! My roommate lost his glasses, and a Kodak cameral student loan and can't return. Please call if you have any Need 1 male to share 2 BR twnhse information concerning this coati I nxt sem, help pay rent &utils. Call Call: 272-3618, lv msg. 
Tina @284-5199 

·-· 
NEED RIDE TO NY & BACK. ANYTIME BETWEEN DEC. 22 TO EARLY JAN. SHARE EXPENSES. 
$100REWARD 232-1662 HOLLY EVENINGS. If you have my tan camelhair overcoat lost at SMC Junior Formal. I need the coat and $100 
FOR RENT
will buy you alol of X-mas presents. CALL 283-3270 House available 1990-91 school LOST: 35mm Vivitar Camera at year. Furnished, well maintained,

-
Season". Hurry, don't miss out on ATIENTION GOVERNMENT Need a ride to Oak Park, II. this GREAT DEAL!! 
MAJORS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
TICKETS 

.I 12/21. CaiiX(284)·4140or4140. Located in the basement of LaFortune. (Closed Friday. Michelle B.,
FOR SALE: One ST Orange Bowl •••••sPRING BREAK ·go••••• ·December 15 until1990.) ticket· Call Susan X4053 Bahamas! Cancun! 
Have a great time in London 7 niles, r-t air &transfers, 
and don't forget to write. I'll miss ·------------------------------------booze cruise and parties, & Deb--I hope you have a ya. 
Love.

4 UCLA GAs FOR SALE.272-6306 much more!! From $299 wonderful Christmas and the 

Daytona Beach 
Spring'90 
!

Just do it! 
$239 complete 
284-4407 Jcnntler 
***** 

HITOPH!! GREATLY UPSET US. Du Lac!l!!
PERSONALS f 
JUST WANTED TO SAY HI PLEASE RETURN THAT & HAPPY HOLIDAYS WHICH WAS NOT MEANT TO GAR INO GAR INO GARINO ORANGE BOWL FLIGHTS 
AS FOR NEW YEARS -1991 BE YOURS BEFORE ANYMORE 
CALL1·800-7DOMERS ••• I ACCEPT! ••• HARM IS DONE. Happy 21st Colleen WUB NU -YOUR TSYT 
--AM. 358 -Miss Dixie, you're 
JUST DO IT! NOW!! best of New Years. You really Scott Jeff X3686 Kathy @4326(SMC) are very special. Love. Jim 
P.S. Say hi to Caroline for me. 
Ma chere Val,KATHY AND MICHELE, 

C'est un grand plaisir de te SUPE-House Music may be theGood luck on finals! Have a souhaiter un Ires Joyeux Noel et anti-chris!, but it was the great time in London next Bonne Annee! J'espere que tous last fast song & JOHNSON semester. I'll miss you. 
res reves seraient realises. Je seems to dig it !
_Love, Scott 
compte ton amitie comma un vrai ""PITICLUB••• 
tresor. 

Que Dieu te benisse, mon amie! THE CENTURY CLUB RESULTS Aus-1 00 Pops·1 01 Janice-60 The Pittsburgh bus sign-ups will be 
Wednesday, 13 and Thurs. 14 Je t'embrasse. Money-101
from 7-8 p.m. in LaFortune lobby. 
R Aus-11 i get goggles, tell me'Cost is $65 Round Trip. One way if -No! We have 15, yes 15, 5+5+ available. Sign-up early to reserve THEY'RE HERE 5(gum drops on floor),15!
seat. Buss leaves Thursday Dec, "5 Daze done 8 Timez" ·Keep me away from fat chicks! 
21 at 10:00 p.m. and returns Pops·...Ah man!
January, 15 at 12 noon from Pgh. 
AND FINALLY

WAKEUP' for Finals Frenzy Jen-thirty...uh...seven Questions call Kevin 288-4420 or 
Steve at 1177. 
Thanks guys! I had a blast 1 
"""PITICLUB""" FINALS FRENlY ][ 
MARY MARY MARY MARY MARY 
Fly to sunny Calif. for the Rock and Roll Hoolchie Coo holidays. 1-way ticket to L.A. Get ready to bang those books! Good-bye! We will miss you. on Dec. 19. Lv. O'hare 12:35 
Have a good time in D.C. in p.m. & arrive LAX 4:30. Only TO THE ABDUCTORS OF 
that coed dorm. Don't be too $90. Call 284-5044. ZODIAC 
rambunctious. And, remember 
MINDWARP: "Once a Domer, always a YOU HAVE DEFILED OUR Domer." So. I guess that SACRED ARTIFACT, AND THUS means you are bound by 
Lyons-Dillon Formal. Reward. If secure home. 5 bedrooms, WID, 

Chicago -$295 found please call 2900. close to campus. Competitive rent. the best! 
Cincinnati · $245 
Call 264-6010 Love, TPL
Cleveland -$311 SANDYB !!!!! ONE WAY FLIGHT: SB to NYC
LOST/FOUND Someone look the ··----------------------------------­

Dallas · $320 
Sandy B is the horse's JAN 4 $40 CALL 2279 wrong blue blazer at the FLORIDA KEYS-ORANGE BOWL Denver-$351 a ! She's the meanest. She
P.E. formal. My wallet is in the Marathon, Fla Keys-2hrs Miami The Pocono Lodge, 
Detroit · $280 s--the horse's p ___ _! Sandy
pockel. Call John at x1225 to where life won't 
Louisville · $245
switch B• is the horse's F-1 LOVE YOU DEARLY AND be the same with·
Dec. 23-30; 2/2; Sleeps 6 Sun. Philadelphia -$270 
a __!!I If you see Sansha the WILL MISS YOU TERRIBLY. out Colleen & Fishing, Snorkeling, Pool New Orleans -$200 
Sumo Wrestler today, wish her a
LOST: 3 1/2" Macintosh Disk. BEING APART FROM YOU WILL Larissa!
$1000+$200 Security Deposit 813· LaGuardia-$310 HAPPY BELATED BIRTH-DAY!! BE THE HARDEST PART ABOUT 
White-no label. Disk name: 996-6159 After 9pm EST Boston · $328 

Second Year. Tuesday night, 12/5, --love, BEING AWAY. LOVE, B 
Pittsburgh · $320 all members of the ND Library Mac Lab. Reward. Contact 
Need back tape lost 12/2. Please Mark Esposito 271-8861 
2 Roomates needed. Turtle Creek. Los Angeles -$440 
women's basketball team, Low rent, Walk to campus. Cable 
call x2816 or come to the searchboth past and present LISA D., LAURA, KELLY, AMY. 
TV, more. 272-7449 CALL 1-800-?DOMERS meeting in Lyons room 401· There 
LISA B., AND MARY LEE: 
will be plenty of music HELP! I lost my room key I WILL MISS YOU TERRIBLY
MOST FLIGHTS 12/29 AND 1/3. 
2 ROOMS TO RENT IN PRIVATE SEATS ARE LIMITED. 
somewhere between NOH and PHILIP KRAKER!!!! WHILE I'M GONE. I'LL SEE YOU 
HOME. PARK AVE. AREA. 

Merry Christmas and Happy New 
LaFortune on 12/6. If you IN AUGUST. LOVE, B 
KITCHEN PRIVILEGES, LOCAL ADOPTION · Well-educated 
Year! It's not going to be the same Penthouse Gang (aka Kimbo, PHONE. $45/WEEK. CAROL 234-couple eager to adopt a baby.
found it. PLEASE call x1124. 

without you. But don't forget--this is Char and Na') -" So long . 2440. Cheerful home full of books. farewell , auf wiedershen, 
the last time we'll have to do it!! HAPPY BIRTHDAY LAURIE!! Flexible on sharing information Good luck on finals honey, LOVE ALWAYS, STEVE goodbye" Only four more daysFREE BEER! Hope I got your 
attention. I lost a black right glove Nice furnished homes for next with birthmother about child. Our 

love,

Fri. nile probably at Fencing House Franco! (Fun!) I'll miss 
school year. Close to NO. 277· adoption agency can provide
on St. Lawrence. Flanner or Knott Molly you guys... Do ya think so??? 
3097. counseling and references. Please 
or somewhere near any of those The other (ex) roomie 
call collect 309-827-3135 places. It was brand new so big 
4 BR, N.D. Ave., furnished house eveslwknds for profile/photo. Happy Holidays to the Fightin' Do you want someone who
reward will be given for return of 

lor rent beginning AUG. 90. GRAD James and Hollis.
info! call 284-4049 F of 814!!! Don't eat too much. idolizes you for what you do, or STUDENTS OR SRS. RESERVE Don't think too much. And by all loves you for who you are? NOW! 259-7801 days or 255-5852 HIAG! means, make a New Year's HEY SPENGIE, HAVE A HAPPY 
HELP ME!! I lost a set of four keys 

evenings/wknds. 21ST, AND GUARD THOSE 
resolution to give up thosesometime last Wednesday or 
-------------------------·-----------recreational drugs. We'll find GORGEOUS KNEES OF YOURS 
Thursday. They are on an oval, ADOPTION Doctor & artist, happily 
House available 1990-91 school another quad habit for second married, warm, seek white !!!! 
clear blue rubber keychain. If you 

year. Furnished, well maintained, THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune semester. See ya newborn to love and cherish. PATTY, MARY,PEGGIE have them, or know where they 
secure home. 5 bedrooms, WID, 6¢ Copies, Binding, FAX soon f , 
Legal. confidential. Please call THANKS! close to campus. Competitive rent. OPEN EARL Y,LATE,&WEEKENDS love the invisible f Hanna & Mark collect (212) 864­Call 264·601 0 
are. please call BARB at x4858. 

p.s. GO NISES ! 
see CLASS. I page 8
-------------------------------------5512 
_T_hu_r_sd_a~y_,_D_ec_e_m_b_e_r_1_4~,1_9_8_9_~_~_-_~_-_-~~~----------~-~~--~---~--~-_~_-__T~h~e~O~b~s~e~N~e~r--------------------------------------------~~p~a~g~e~1~5-----~ 

There's a PS/2®that's right for you. 
Model 30 288 8530-E21  
lleiiiOIY Processor 3.5-lnch diskette *lve  1Mb 80286 (10 MHz) 1.44Mb  2Mb 80386SX™ (16Mhz) 1.44Mb  Options with any order,  
Fixed disk *lve  20Mb  30Mb  
Micro Channel,.. architect••  Yes  Lotus 1·2-3 $100  
Display Software  Monochrome DOS3.3 WordPerfect  Monochrome DOS3.3 WordPerfect  Color Monitors $230  
Price  $1,995  $2,950  

Now with Immediate Delivery! 
Three of the most popular mM ProprintersTM are available now at special low prices, and slightly longer delivery.. 
Proprinter III w/Cahle (42011003) $406 Proprinter X24E w/Cahle ( 4207/002) $549 Proprinter XL24E w/Cahle (4208/002) $736 Start out the new year right. Check out all 
these special savings now -before it's too late! 
How're you going to do it? PS/2 it! 
Notre Dame Computer Store Computing Center and Math Building 239-7477 
==-=.=\!' 
-

-. --­
-~-·­
"This offer is limited to qualrtied students, faculty and staff who order an IBM PS/2 Model 8530-E21 or 8555-031 through December 31, 1989. Prices quoted do not include sales tax. Prices above do include a handling charge. Check with your institution regarding this charge. •iBM and PS/2 are reg1stered trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation. "'Proprinter and Micro Channel are trademarks of International Business Mach1nes Corporation. r"'80386SX and 80386 are trademarks of Intel Corporation. Prices are subject to change and IBM may withdraw the promotion at any time without written notice. Immediate delivery for cash and cashiers check payment only. Allow approximately 7 days for personal check orders. 
~-----~--~---~--~-·~ 
Thursday, December 14, 1989
page 16 The Observer 
NO swimmers will train in Florida during winter holidays 

By JANICE ARCHER Sports Writer 
Getting a chance to enjoy some warm weather over Christmas vacation, the Notre Dame men's and women's swim teams will travel to Florida and continue their training. 
On a 10-day trip beginning Jan. 2, the swimmers will un­dergo a period of training that will be "as intense as possible," according to head coach Tim Welsh. 
The trip allows them, for the only time during the year, to train without the added pres­sures of classes, tests, and homework., team members said. 

"It's an important opportu­nity for the team to pull to­gether as one unit," said cap­tain Tom Penn. 
Approximately four hours a day will be spent swimming, and one to two hours a day lifting, if weights are available. The first part of the three leg trip will be at the Justus Aquatic Center in Orlando, and the second leg will take place in Boca Raton at the Mission Bay Aquatic Center. 
"The intense training camp atmosphere and compact living conditions make the team very unified," notes Welsh. "Over the years, the trip has had a ex­tremely positive effect. When we return, the whole is always more than the sum of its parts." 
Trips in the past have taken the Irish to Long Beach, Calif., and Phoenix, Ariz. 
The third part of the swim­mers' trip takes them back in the Midwest to Northwestern University, for a meet against Creighton on Jan. 12, then to road meet with Ball State the following day. 
The teams will return to campus when the dorms open on Jan. 14, beginning a de­manding series of meets for the new semester. 
The women's team is coming off a recent impressive 199-93 victory over Saint Mary's. The 
NC State hoops has cloudy history 
HALEIGII, N.C. {AP) -A cloud has hung over North Carolina State's basketball program through three eras, and the NCAA's latest action only added another dark postscript to Wolfpack history. 
Interspersed with two na­tional championships have been a series of sanctions dating back to 1954. Of the team's last four eoaehes. three have been sanctioned for violations. Everett Case received the stiffnst sanctions, five years, covering two decisions. 
But it isn't as bleak as it seems, according to associate athletic director Frank Weedon, a 30-year veteran administrator at North Carolina State. 
"I think there's a different reason for each coach," Weedon said in a telephone in­terview. "I don't think anything was done with intent to hurt anyone or anybody." 
Weedon said he's not sure it's all that bad, anyway. given the national championships in 197 4 and 1983. 
"If you knew then what you know now, maybe a lot of things might have gorw differ­ently," Weedon said. "I don't know that it's a cloud. Each thing was at a different time. We had the (basketball) gam­bling scandals in the early '60s. I think visibility has a lot to do with it." 
Norm Sloan. who had trouble at Florida before resigning this year, was called on the carpet in connection with his recruit­ment of All-American David Thompson at North Carolina State. The common thread among Case, Sloan and current eoaeh Jim Valvano is that all were forced to miss the NCAA tournament as penance. 
Valvano's program was hit with a two-ynar probation 


Jim Valvano 

Tuesday for rules violations. The NCAA ruled that over the past fiv~ years, players sold shoes and complimentary game tickets. There also were 630 cases of misuse of tickets des­ignated for family members, according to the NCAA. 
"Norm Sloan was visible. Case was visible. V (Valvano) is a very glib, outgoing person," Weedon said. "Maybe we draw a lot of attention to ourselves." 
On May 7. 1954, the NCAA placed N.C. State on a one-year probation for holding illegal tryouts of perspective players. Case allegedly took a first-hand look on campus at 11 players in May 1953. Among the players who were given transportation by the Wolfpack and illegally auditioned on campus were Hod Hundley, who later became an All-American at West Virginia, and Ronnie Shavlik, who be­came an All-American for the Wolf pack. 
Case's team won the first Atlantic Coast Conference bas­ketball tournament in 1954, but was banned from the NCAA tournament and the National Invitation Tournament. Instead, the Wolfpack went to the national AAU tournament in Denver, losing in the second round. 
More than two years later came the stiffest ban ever im­posed on N.C. State, and the most stringent in NCAA history before Southern Methodist's football program was dissolved in 1986. It might have been the precursor to the so-called "death penalty." 
Irish captured first-place victo­
ries in every event. 

"Several of the girls who didn't travel to New York per­formed very well in the meet," commented Welsh. "It was a spectacular effort by the whole team." 
The meet, which took place at the Rolfs Aquatic Center, came soon after the team returned from the National Catholic Championships in Fordham, N.Y. 
"We were worried about coming back after such a long trip," says Welsh. "But across the board we swam very well, and it was a great reunification meet." 
Not only was the win testi­mony to the strength of the team as a whole, but there were impressive individual perfor­mances as well. Tanya Williams and Becky Wood became the first two swimmers in Irish his­tory to qualify for the NCAA 
meet  which  will  be  held  in  
March.  
Williams swam  a  time  of  

4:22.3 in the 400-yard individ­ual medley, and Wood recorded a time of 2:19.16 in the 200 breaststroke. 
Now both the men's and women's team can look for­ward to their intense training trip in Florida that will help prepare them for the upcoming spring semester's schedule. 
HEY! Look who's 21 on the 24th! Too bad the bars are closed on Christmas Eve! 
If"\ Happy 21st KASSIE!!
\~~~ 
-;;.;Ji;;,:: 


Love, Mom Dad Kristi, Kaycee, Kaz, Kelley, Kregg, Kory, Kayla, and Kippi 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Any students who have their Hed Cross water safety in­structors certification and who are interested in teaching swimming during the second semester to children of Notre Dame faculty. staff and administration should contact Dennis Stark at 239-5983 before leaving for semster break. 
lnterhall football equipment final return will be 2 p.m. Friday, Dec. 15, at Gate 9 of the stadium. Failure to return equipment will result in a $170 charge to your student ac­count. 
WVFI Sports will hold the finals of Trivia Bowl '89 at 8 
p.m. Thursday night in Montgomery Theatre. Flanner and Zahm will compete for the title. The event will not be broad­cast on the air. 
ND/SMC Synchronized Swim Club competed at the Indiana-Kentucky Regional Meet on Saturday, Dec. 9. Debbie James of Saint Mary's placed third and Ann Ball of Notre Dame placed sixth in figures competition. 
A man-made ski slope, two stories high and 150-feet long, will be at Bayfront Park at Biscayne Boulevard and Flagler Street un New Year's Eve from 2 'to 9 p.m. Four-person teams are needed from Notre Dame to compete against Colorado students. For more information, call Mike Sheehan at x3662. 
In the NBA , Wednesday's games saw Boston down Seattle 109-97, Philadelphia cool off Atlanta 112-103, the Los Angeles Lakers freeze Miami 102-75, Cleveland beat Milwaukee 99-93, Dallas edge Minnesota 90-87, Utah whip Phoenix 112-95, the Los Angeles Clippers slip by Detroit 83­79 and Golden State outscore Denver 134-114. 
Happy 21st Birthday, 
Love, Mom, Dad, and Graham 
Orange Bowl Special 
--Tickets Available___.. 

*Complete Package Includes: ~ air, beach, hotel, ~, parade, and game ticket &S' 
*air-only available ( ' 

Preferred Tickets and Tours 1-800-828-8955 
~-~---------~~~---~------------...,..__,-----~ 
hursday, December 14, 1989 
The Observer page 17 


~--~--------------------~--------~----~-----------------------~-----------------------­
page 18 The Observer 
Previewing Irish opponents 
By GREG GUFFEY Assistant Sports Editor 
After struggling with a 1-3 record so far this season, the Notre Dame men's baskt1tball team will end the year with four home gam11s and thtm bPgin 1990 with fivn road 
eontnsts. 
Thn Irish will host UCLA Sunday at I p.m. in the .Joyce ACC and then ent11rtain Valparaiso Thursday. Dec. 21; Lafayette Friday, One. 22; and Butler Saturday. Dm:. 30. 
Notre Dame will play at Creighton .Jan. 3, at Southern California .Jan. 6, at Boston College .Jan 9, at LaSalle Jan, 12 and at Jlutgers Jan. 16. 
Here's a capsule look at each team: 
Valparaiso -The Crusaders beat Notre Damn last season in Valpo by a 71-68 count in overtime. 
Valparaiso lost 69-62 to Ball Statn Thursday night to lower its record to 0-6. 
Junior Mike .Jonns. who scornd 19 points for the Crusades in last year's game. returns . .Jim Ford (13 
points in  last year's upset)  and  
Bruins  
continued from page 24  
As  a  team,  UCLA  has  not  

posted overly impressive statistics. The Bruins shoot just 
42.4 percent from the field and 
28.8 percent from beyond the three-point stripe. Opponents are outrebounding UCLA 38.3 to 36. 
Forwards Trevor Wilson and Don MacLean lead UCLA's of­fensive attack. Wilson. a 6-8 senior and pre-season West Coast nominee for the John Wooden Award. leads the team with 19.3 points per game and 
10.0 rebounds per contest. MacLean. a 6-10 sophomore, seores 18.0 points and pulls down 7.0 boards. 
Hounding out the Bruin lineup are 6-10 eenter Kevin Walker 
(4.3 ppg, 2.8 rpg, UCLA's ca­reer leader in three-point field goals aw~mpted and made) and guards Gerald Madkins (9.0 ppg) and Darrick Martin (7.3 ppg, 19 assists). Freshman Mitchell Butler contributes 5.0 points pN game ofT the bench. 
Notre Dame could start any one of I 0 players. Against Marquette last Saturday, Phelps started sophomores Elmer Bennett and Daimon Sweet, junior Tim Singleton and seniors Scott Paddock and Keith Hobinson. 
Co-captain Joe Fredrick came off the bench at Marquette to score a team-high 19 points, but fellow co-captain Jamere Jackson has struggled. Jackson has hit just 9-of-30 shots in the four games and averages 6.3 points per contest. Hobinson is still the team scoring leader at 
14.3 points per game, followed by Fredrick at 12.3. 
IT...CHAEL'S UKRANAN BVV.NllNE CATHOliC CHURCH 712 E. Lewrence St., l1llh1wek1 259-7173 Come worwhlp wltlllll... December 24 Grw1t Compline 11:00/DIYIM lltur1111 11:45  
Ski the Mississippi Tour #1 -Jan. 3-5 Tour #2-Feb. 9-11 Call today! 1-264-3984 Deadline: Dec. 14  
Express Press, LF ~\DANA N:X:FPOAATED., ~--------.•IQUALITY PAINTING I 325 r::J.>OFWAY NORTH • SOUTH BEND [219) 277-3355 215 S. 11TH S1HEET • Nll£S 616 684-2000  


Scott Anselm (21 points) graduated last spring. 
A portion of the ticket revenues from this game will hrdp support Christmas in April, a one-day in­tensive volunteer program that will refurbish and repair 50 homes in South Bend next spring. 
Lafayette -The Leopards are 5-1 with no games remaining before the Notre Dame contest. They have defeated Colgate, Moravian, Fordham, Columbia and Yale while suffering their lone setback by a 78-69 eount to Rutgers. 
This will be the fifth meeting be­tween Notre Dame and Lafayette. The Irish won the first four games. but the Leopards won the last con­test, 83-68 at Lafayette in 1988. 
Lafayette lost three lettermen and 29 points in Otis Ellis. Scott Lewis and Kevin Davis. The leading returnees are senior guard Andy Wescoe (12.0 ppg last year) and senior forward Matt Hoberts (9.6 ppg). .Junior guard Bruce Stankavage seored 8.7 points per contest last season. 
Butler -The Bulldogs have struggled early in the season, win­
"They're due to explode against somebody," Phelps said. "We have to get ourselves in a positive frame of mind. There's still a lot of games left and a lot of good teams on the schedule." 
The Irish will learn next week if sophomore sensation LaPhonso Ellis-hailed by many as the savior to this sinking ship-will be eligible to play. Ellis has been ineligible for the first semester because of a poor summer school grade. 
"When the game starts, you don't worry about LaPhonso," 
r------.~~~~ 

WANTED: MEN'S VARSITY CREW COACH 
GRADUATE STUDENTS OR FACULTV PREFERRED SHORT OR LONG TERM COACHING POSITION OFFERRED 
NOTRE DAME 

'. 

ROWING CLUB 
PAID COACHING POSITION OFFERRED FOR SPRING SEMESTER '90. LONG TERM COACHING POSITION ALSO AVAILABLE AND ENCOURAGED! 
CONTACT: BRAIN LAPPS 283-1217 JOHN WILSON 272-3078 
ning just two games while losing four. 
The wins came against Illinois­Chicago and Miami (Ohio), while Butler fell to Western Illinois, 
Illinois State,  Western  Kentucky  
and Wisconsin.  
The  Bulldogs  lost  forward  

Darren Fowlkes (18.8 ppg) to graduation and got a nflw coach when Barry Collier replaced long­time Butler mentor .Joe Sexson. 
Leading returnees are senior guards .Jody Littrell (14.8 ppg) and Thad Matta (11.3 ppg). Junior for­ward John Karaffa averaged 7.9 points last season. 
Creighton -The Bluejays of Tony Barone were 20-11 in 1988-89 and earned a spot in the NCAA Tournament. 
They lost just one starter -guard James Farr, 12.0 points per game. Heturning starters from last year's NCAA tournP.y team are Bob Harstad (16. 7 ppg last year), Chad Gallagher (15.3 ppg), Todd Elsner 
(7.3 ppg) and Porter Moser (6.4 ppg). 
Creighton is 3-3 and meets Nebraska tonight. 
said Phelps, who compared the absence of Ellis to last year's Boston Celtics without Larry Bird. "You want to have him back, but you don't. You have to live with it and go after it." 
Another loss that hurt against Marquette was the ab­sence of Kevin Ellery. who has been battling an ankle injury. He could provide a big boost inside for Notre Dame on Sunday. 
"The other thing we need is Kevin Ellery," Phelps said. "That's the other missing link beside LaPhonso Ellis. That gives us another inside player." 
Thursday, December 14, 1989 
over winter break 
Southern California -The Trojans arP 2-3 with wins against Prairie View and Portland and losses against Washington Statfl, Washington and San Diego State. 
Southern Cal, which lost at Notre Dame 83-74 last year, returned just two starters in forwards Honnie Coh1man and Chris Munk. Coach Geroge Haveling hopes six newcom­ers will spark the Trojans. 
Boston College -The Eagles are 5-1 after a 116-66 rout of Harvard Tuesday night. 
They downed Maryland E. Shore, Dartmouth. Maine and Brown. Their lone setback was an 81-68 Joss at the hands of Fordham. 
Freshman Lior Arditti had bP.en hot for Boston College. leading the team in scoring at 15.2 points p1~r game. Freshman David Jlinton av­erages 12.2 points and sophomorfl Brian Edwards comes in at 11.5. Doug Able is thfl leading rebounder for the Eagles, pulling down 5.R 
boards per contest. 

LaSalle -The Explorers compiled 
a 26-6 record last season and 
qualified for the NCAA 
Tournament. LaSalle is 4-0 after 
Mizzou trims Arkansas 
FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. (API -Doug Smith scored the last of his 24 points on a layup with 12 seconds left Wednesday night. leading No. 4 Missouri over No. 7 Arkansas 89-88. 
Mario Credit gave Arkansas an 88-87 lead with a jump hook with 51 seconds remammg. After Smith scored, Lee Mayberry missed a long jumper for the 
Dear Erin, 
You did it! 
Your 18th 
at N.D. 

Love, Mom 5 Dad Patrie, Jennie, Kevin, &Timmy 
downing SW Missouri State, Fresno State, DP-Paul and Penn. Tlw Explorers cruslwd the Blue Demons 83-62 in Chkago. 
The big gun wturning for LaSal111 is Lionel Simmons. one of the most explosive scorPrs in the country. Simmons scornd 28.4 points 1wr gamP. last year. liP. is joinf'd by thrPn returrwes who averagPd in double figurP.s last yl'ar -Doug Overton (13.2 ppg). .Jack Hurd 
(12.8) and Bob .Johnson (1 1.5). The Irish edged LaSalle 80-78 last February at the Joyce ACC. 
RutgPrs -The Scarlet Knights posted an 18-13 ledgPr last year and 1mrnnd a berth in the NCAA Tournament. The Irish won 85-63 in 1989 at Notw DamP. 
Hutgnrs was 3-2 going into WednP.sday night's game against Seton llall. The wins came against Lafayette, St. Jos1~ph's and Delawan~. while the loss11S came at the hands of top-ranked Syracus<' and St. Bonaventure. 
Thfl two top guns n~turn for thP Scarlflt Knights. Junior forward Tom Savage scored at a 20.0 clip last s11ason and was followP.d by Hick Dadika at 13.1. 
Hazorbacks in the final seconds. 
Missouri, of the Big Eight, is 8-0. Arkansas, of the Southwest Conference, is 5­1. 
The 6-foot-1 0 Smith and 6­foot-9 Nathan Buntin, who also scored 24 points, consistently got inside Arkansas' defense. The Tigers had 16 offensive rebounds and shot 19 layups. 


.­

The Observer 
19 

1 Duke, Fla. stake bids for Spurrier 

Photo courtesy University of Michigan Sports Information 

With only four more victories needed to catch Ohio State legend Woody Hayes as the Big Ten's all-time winningest coach, Bo Schembechler plans to end his coaching duties at Michigan, effective after the Rose Bowl. Schembechler will remain Michigan's athletic director. 
Ship lt. 
Whether headrng For college or home For vacation, Mail Boxes Etc. USA will get your 
thmgs there safer. faster and all m one 
orece we even oack your boxes For your 

GAINESVILLE, Fla. (AP) ­Duke has Steve Spurrier. Florida wants him. Both of them are willing to wait for him to make up his mind. 
Florida wants Spurrier. a Heisman Trophy winner with the Gators in 1966, to come back as head coach. But he left a meeting in Gainesville Tuesday night without giving an answer. 
Spurrier, who played at Florida from 1964-66, has a 20-12-1 record in three seasons at Duke. The Atlantic Coast Conference co-champions are 8-3 this season and will play Texas Tech in the All-American Bowl on Dec. 28. 
"We have offered Coach Spurrier the job of head coach," Florida athletic direc­tor Bill Arnsparger said in a st11tmnent. "He has not ac-
Bo 
continued from page 24 
on Monday when he told a university sociology class he would never sit in the coach's office of the new $12.5 million Center of Champions. The building, to be completed next fall, will house the football program. 
Heart attacks in 1970 and 1987 resulted in open-heart surgery, and Schembechler's physicians have urged him to slow down ever since. 
Apparently, the decision was made a little easier because No. 3 Michigan just won its second straight Big Ten title. 
A decision was also necessary because associate athletic di­rector Jack Weidenbach, who has been in charge of daily op­erations while Schembechler tended to football, is nearing retirement age. 
Schembechler said he decided to make the announcement now because he wanted prospective recruits to know Moeller would be their coach. 
Pamela "Beatrice"Gilckrist 
turns 21 and she is 
ready for anything. 
LOVE, Anne and Mary 

cepted. We will continue to work out the proposal... He has been, he is, our first choice. We are pleased he is considering our offer." 
Arnsparger was out of his of­fice Wednesday and could not be reached for comment. The Tampa Tribune reported that the contract, if accepted, prob­ably would cover five years. 
Spurrier, believed to be trav­eling from Gainesville to his home in Durham, N.C., also could not be reached for com­ment. Duke athletic director Tom Butters said by telephone from his office that he hadn't talked to Spurrier, but wasn't surprised that Florida had made an offer. 
Spurrier, who also has been interviewed by two NFL teams, reportedly may wait until after Duke's bowl appearance to de-
Gary Moeller 
Southern Cal coach Larry Smith, who will be on the oppo­site sideline on New Year's Day in Pasadena, said he was sad­dened by the news. 
"It's a shock. All of a sudden, Bo is out of the game," he said. "Anyone who has coached with or played for Bo thought that he'd coach forever. College football is losing a great con­tributor." 
Schembechler leads all coaches in NCAA Division I-A with a record of 234-64-8 after 21 years at Michigan and six at Miami of Ohio. He is fifth on cide his future. Arnsparger's statement said "the time frame we are working with now is his time frame," and Butters indi­cated he won't try to rush Spurrier, either. 
"Steve understands the pro­cess and knows it couldn't be­gin for us until after he makes a decision," Butters said. "There will be no pressure on him to do anything in a hurry. 
"The important thing now is that he make the right deci­sion," he added. "He's a bright young coach and has a bright future. It's far more important that he the right decision rather than an expedient deci­sion." 
Regardless of what Spurrier decides, Butters expects him to coach the Blue Devils in the All American Bowl. 
the all-time list and needs only four more victories to match his mentor at Ohio State, Woody Hayes. Schembechler is the winningest coach in Michigan history at 194-47-5. 
Schembechler never had a losing season. Fifteen of his 21 Michigan teams have been ranked in the top 10 nationally. The 1985 team finished No. 2 after beating Nebraska in the Fiesta Bowl. 
The Wolverines began the 1989 season ranked No. 1, but lost their opening game to Notre Dame before getting 10 straight wins. 
"If you think that my career has been a failure because I have never won a national title, you have another think com­ing," Schembechler said before beating Ohio State in the final regular-season game. "I have never played a game for the na­tional title. Our goals always have been to win the Big Ten title and the Rose Bowl. If we do that, then we consider it a successful season." 
This year's Rose Bowl will be Schembechler's 10th and third in the past four years. 
Schembechler transformed Michigan's program into one of the best in the nation and, aided by Canham's salesman­ship, began to regularly fill the university's 101,701-seat sta­dium. The Wolverines have played to 91 consecutive home crowds in excess of 100,000. 
Schembechler also became a spokesman for college football. urging tight academic stan­dards and higher graduation rates for players. 
"He's meant a great deal to all of intercollegiate football," Purdue coach Fred Akers said. "He'll be missed. I can't think of anyone who deserves more of a well-earned rest." 

-

. The ClJserverI Matt Mrttino 
AII-Amenc~n Pat Boyd (top) and the Notre Dame wrestling team will spend New Year's Day in California, competmg In three dual meets and one tournament. Boyd currently is ranked third in the nation among 142­pounders. 
Controversy surrounds Mandarich 
GREEN  BAY,  Wis.  (AP)  - Mandarich weighed 295 pounds  three days  a  week," he said.  
Tony Mandarich, the Green Bay  Dec. 7.  ''I'm probably 30 percent below  
Packers' highly publicized top  "lie weighed  297 when  he  my  peak performance.  You'd  
draft choice, is still  a  weighty  first reported, so he's lost two  like to do more, but you'd be  
subject, even though he's played  pounds," Gentile said. "If that  wearing yourself  out  in  the  
sparingly  in  a  disappointing  has made a big difference in his  process.  
rookie season.  ability, I can't believe it."  "I lost weight just for the fact  
Mandarich's  weight  has  Mandarich said earlier he had  that we  don't run  the ball  as  
dropped  below  300 pounds,  lost a few pounds because the  much  as  we  did  at Michigan  
leading to speculative reports  grind of the  season  prevented  State. It's easier to move when  
that  the  offensive  tackle  is  him from working out as heav­ you're lighter, easier to move in  
lighter  because  he's  stopped  ily as he did during the off-sea­ pass protection."  
using anabolic steroids.  son.  Mandarich said he wants to  
Mandarich,  once  a  Sports  "It goes from twice a day, six  average  out at about  300 or  
Illustrated cover boy showing a  days  a  week  to  once  a  day,  305 pounds..  

Thursday, December 14, 1989 
Wrestlers to Californi for meets over break 
Special to The Observer dual meet ol' the season, Irish have risen four spots 
i 
Hinging in the new year on the Amateur Wrnstling Ne the West Coast, the Notre Top 25 poll. Notre Damn'. Dame wrestling team will corn­schedule includes six Top 25 pete in thme dual meets and teams: No. 3 Iowa. No. 4 one tournament at California Nebraska. No. 5 Indiana. No. 6 over the winter holidays. Oklahoma, No. 16 Ohio State 
Notre Dame. 1-0 and ranked and No. 25 l'urduP. 12th in the latest Amateur Thn Irish also have three in­Wrestling News poll, is sched­dividuals ranked among the top uled to face Cal Poly San Luis 10 wrnstlers in their weight Obispo on Jan. :3. Fresno State categories. Senior Pat Boyd is on Jan. 4 and Stanford on Jan. third among 142-pounders. be­
5. All matches arn scheduled to hind Townsend Saunders of start at 7:30 pacific standard Arizona State and Joe Heynolds time. of Oklahoma. Senior Andy Beforn those meets, thn Irish Hadenbaugh is Pighth in tho 
will compete in thn Southern 118-pound bracket, and junior California Invitational. The Mark Gerardi is ninth in the Invitational, which includes 11 167 -pound division. schools. begins Dnc. 31. Boyd and Hadnnbaugh both 
have 11-2 rncords on the yearFollowing a 23-12 victory 
so far. Gnrardi currently boasts over Illinois State in its opening a 13-2 mark. 
Don't forget to wish this Alumni R.A. a a HAPPY 22nd B-DAY on Dec. 20th!! 
DON SHARP!! 
Love, Deb, Mom,Dad, and Lisa. 

massive body crafted from a high calorie intake and exten­
Sisters are
sive weight training, was listod 

Dec.31, 1968 Dec.31, 1989 
at 6-foot-5, 315 pounds during forever friends; the off-season. lie was listed at 300 pounds I'm so glad on the roster for last Sunday's 
you're mine! 

Happy 21st 
game against the Kansas City Chiefs. 

Birthday
Tom Braatz, the Packers' ex­ecutive vice president of foot­

[IDMU©[}u
lW®~~w
ball operations, said last week that Mandarieh had reported to the team about 300 pounds and 
~lJ®U~
his weight had nuctuated be­
Love,
tween 295 and 300 pounds at 
his weekly weigh-ins. 

Pop, Mom, Didi, 
©©00~ 

Mike, Rich, Lissa, 
"flis weight hasn't varied 
Love, Mare
more than live pounds since 
&Sue 
he's been here," Braatz said. Packers trainer Domenic Gentile said Tuesday that 

Leaving your car on campus
~~ 

during break ? PLEASE park
yt:J
'-..... 

in the D-2 parking lot_ This lot
~ 

will be locked during the
Come skate with the 
break. Should you need to get
Freshman Class 

your vehicle out of the lot 
during tl1.e break you will 
need to contact N.D. Security_ 
at the JACC 
on 

rfhanks-----and have a safe
Thursday, December 14 
break_ 
10-11 :30pm 

-, 
IIAPPY HOLIDAYS 
only $1.00 for skate rental 
From Notre Dame Security 


Domino's Pizza will deliver a hot, fresh, made­to-order pizza to your door in 30 minutes or less. Guaranteed. Don't let any­one tell you differently. Call Domino's Pizza. Nobody Delivers Betters\!. 
r------------------­
2 Large Pizzas for $8.89 
Get 2-14" cheese pizzas FOR ONLY $8.89. 
Offer expires: December 17, 1989 
II
""II!OUfl "lth an~ Ulht'r nm•r. liuud a!J)ilfllrlpallnl:! lucattun!' nnl\ nrlhrn 3ff"3 llmllrd lo f'DSUff' sclrr drhtng.  •  
Our drlwn; l'ilr~ h•ss limn $20 00  
Urh •·rs nul llt'llalizl'd fur lflh' ddh 1'1).  : ·  Jlf  


CALL USI 271-0300 
1835 South Bend Ave. 
Hours: 
4:30pm -1:OOam Sun. -Thurs. 4:30pm-2:00am Fri. & Sat. 
Cll989 Domino's Pizza. lm·. 
~-----------------------· 
:~z0AY oouBi.£f:~j.---..,.£THICK THURSDAY \ 
FO "10" Cheese pizzas URE /Get 1 PAN PIZZA smoothered in \ 
R ONLy $5 49 1 cheese and pepperoni I ~lid Sunday On; ' I FOR ONLY $6.00. I Nor g=~ expires: Dece~ber I Valid Thursday Only I
1

parl/eipg,~u~an,, Olhrroffer I' 7• 1989 I Offer expires: December 17, 1989 I arf"a llmfl...dg ,ocatlons onh. o·:,,o?d at • ~~ I
Ou d ,-o f"QN • • tf'n 11\ot good \\llh an~ l)lhrr offrr (juod al .. lJ r rlH·rs f'ar, 1 · Urt-Haft-drhl · parllrlpalln~ lorallons on I~ Urlht"l) I rtt·('n; no1 p(• ., rss lhan S20 OOD((. .. aft''a llmllrd to f'mmrr !Wft" drh1n~. na l7.t'rl for lalr df•lhCn our dri\l'M' rarr~ Irs:-than $20.00 : · I
I( 

· • [)rin•n; nnt pt•nall'i:C'd fur lair df'IIVt'l":l. I 
.. ' I 
_... 

-
------------------------~~ -~---­
The Observer Thursday, December 14, 1989
page 22 

What a difference a year makes for Colorado QB Hagan 
By PETE BAUMGARTNER 
Campus Press. University of Colorado 
No oil!' has been as instru­nwntal during tlw Colorado Buffalcws' golden season of IYS<J than quartPrbark Darian !lagan. 
But his nwtPorir risP from a bark-up to 0111' of tlw most ex­plosiw players in the country has bl'l'n anything but prt~­dietabiP. 
As tlw spring of 1989 fell upon tlw Uniwrsity of Colorado campus. two things were cer­tain about thP upeoming Buff team. 
EveryonP considered this squad thP best in Coach Paul McCartney's night-year tenure, and Sal Aunesn would begin his second full season as the Buffs' starting quartnrbark. 
But after a tragic day during spring break. one certainty be­came quite uncertain. Aunese was diagnosed as having a rare form of stomach cancer. It was inoperable and had spread to his lungs and lymph nodes. He could live anywhere from a few months to a few years. 
Suddenly Hagan was forced to take the reigns of a very promising CU squad. 
This was the same Hagan who, as a freshman phenom from Los Angeles, entered the 198S season claiming he would break all of Oklahoma quarter­back Jamelle llolieway's records-only to have an incon­sistlmt year during which he failed to earn a letter and rushed for just 175 yards. He was a gPnuinely insignificant player in the Buffs' 8-4 season. and cPrtainly was a first-year disappointment after a glorious prep careN. 

Hagan was a three-sport star at Locke lligh School outside of Los Angeles, wlwre he was sought aftnr not only by col­leges to play football, but also was drafted by the Seattle Marinnrs as a shortstop. 
llis childhood was anything but Pasy. 
!lagan grew uo in Watts. known in the 1960s for its racP riots, and now for rampant gang artivity. Hagan's mother was unabiP to take care of him. and he was raised early on by his aunt and uncle. Hagan's fa­ther wasn't around much, and he hasn't seen him in several years. 
He survived gang harassment and the loss of a close friend­beaten to death in high school by a gang-to make the honor roll both in the classroom and on the gridiron. 
Hagan initially had wanted to attend Oklahoma, but Sooner coach Barry Switzer felt he would be a Proposition 48 ca­sualty. He decided on Colorado, and his lackluster freshman year ended on a particularly bad note. 

The Cb>elverI Slave MoslqJ 
Tony Rice breaks upfield against an Air Force team led by Dee Dowis. Rice has outplayed several big-name quarterbacks in head-to-head matchups, including Dowis, Major Harris and Rodney Peete. Colorado's Darian Hagan will provide him with one final opportunity to outshine a star signalcaller. 

make the big play happen at said tailback .1 ..1. Flannigan. any time. llis presence is the SPVPral times thP rneipiPnt of a single..biggest change in our of­"Darian downi1Pid pitch," in­fense. duding the 70-yard touchdown 
Hagan has IPd Colorado to its against NPbraska in which most sucenssful season ever. its llagan ran the first 35 yards. first undefeated regular season "Through what happPnPd to since 1937, and its first No. 1 Sal, lw was fore(~d to eonw in ranking in the 100 years CU and perform. llis ability to has playPd football. liP seowd come into tlw huddle with tlw 17 touchdowns on the ground eonf'idPneP of a f'ifth-yPar and threw for four mom as tlw senior is amazing." Buffs averag(~d 41 points a WidP rnreiver .!PIT Camplwll. 
game, third highest in the na­another bnrwfieiary of Ilagan's tion. talents, is nqually amazed with
Darian Hagan 

In thH process. he became the the ambidextrous quartPrback. 
Playing in front of his friends first Big Eight quarterback and "lin's mPant a gn~at dna! to and family in his hom1~town. only the sixth in NCAA history this tPam. We kn(~W he was go­Hagan rushed for 10 yards on to both pass and rush for 1,000 ing to bP grnat the minute he six carries and threw the inter­yards in one scason. Thanks to slPppPd onto the liPid in the ception that allowed Brigham the Buffs' habit of blowing spring," Campbell said. "fie's Young to snatch a 20-17 vir­teams out by halftime, Hagan grown with this tnam ganw by tory from CU in the Freedom didn't take a snap in 12 quar­game. Anyone that goes to the Bowl. The game had such an ef­tnrs of the season (equivalPnt llnisman banquet as a sopho­fect on the 18-year old that he to missing three entire gamesl. more is awesome." asked McCartney to switch him With little recognition most The annual spring game is to tailback or wingback for the of the year and no media blitz where llagan changed the next season. to buoy his chances. Hagan fin­minds of many critics, not only 
"When things aren't going ished lifth in the 1989 Heisman with his talent, but with his new right for me, I can still think Trophy race-the closest a CU attitude. back to that (game)," Hagan player came to winning the Talent: Playing just the first said. Heisman since Byron "Whizzer" half, Hagan threw for 180 
Nearly one year after the White linished second in 1967. yards, connecting on 4-of-5 
Freedom Bowl disaster, the 5-The danger Hagan creates on passes and a touchdown. foot-9, 185-pounder has made the ground is increased by his Attitude: The first-year arro­a giant mark on Colorado foot­ability to pitch the Lall well gance was gone-Hagan had ball history, and is the most past the line of scrimmage, been transformed into a hum­signil'icant performer in a sea­sometimes flinging the ball ovm ble. modest, team player-the son of stars and All-Americans. the head or outstretched arms epitome of Aunese. lin said he 
"What he has meant to this of a defender. learned his lesson about being football team is imm~asur­"I lis speed and ability to pitch cocky, and it was something able," McCartney said. "He can the ball has been amazing." he'd nevcr be again. 
Palermo named Austin Peay coach 
NO offensive coordinator Strong a finalist for UNLV post 
CLAHKSVILLE, Tenn. (AP) ­Notre Dame defensive line coach .John Palermo was named head football coach at Austin Peay on Wednesday, pledging to turn aro.und a program that went 0-11 this year and has lost its last dozen games. 
"I don't think there is any doubt that we're starting at ground zero," Palermo said. "But I've had fundamental football beaten into my head by Coach (Lou) Holtz ... and when­ever you work for a successful 


John Palermo Jim Strong
individual like Coach Holtz, some of those philosophies want the kids to have fun and Gene Murphy. hmtd eoaeh at Cal eventually rub off." be competitive." State-Fullerton; Artie 
Notre Dame offensive coordi­Palermo, 37, has spent thP Gigantino, Los Angeles Hams nator Jim Strong also has been last two seasons at Notre spneial teams eoaeh; Pat Hill, named one of six llnalists for Dame. lie also worked for recruiting coordinator and of­the University of Nevada-Las Holtz at Minnesota, and had fensive linn coach at Fresno Vegas head coaching job. been an assistant to current State; and Pokey AIIPn, head 
Palermo, who replaces Paul Gophers coach John Gutekunst coach at Portland State. Brewster, has been given a and to Vand(~rbilt's Watson 
The six were narrowed from 
three-year contract and was Brown when Brown ran the 
an initial linld of SO prospects.promised a fifth assistant for Austin Peay program in the late A 16-member search committee the program, said athletics di­1970s. 
met for 2 1/2 hours Monday to rector Tim Weiser. Palermo planned to return to narrow the list from 12 to six. South Bend, Ind., on Thursday
"Obviously, we would like to to help Notre Dame prepare for The interviewing process i. win as soon as possible," its Orange Bowl meeting with scheduled to begin Wednesday. Palermo said. "I told the kids Colorado. Athletic Director Brad this morning (at a team meet­At Nevada-Las Vegas, the fi­Hothermel says he hopes to 
ing) that we're going to go into nalists include Strong, John have a nnw coach named by every game thinking we can Jenkins, offensive coordinator Christmas. He said there was win. But first and foremost, I at the University of Houston; no front-runner for the job. 
-­ Rice continued from page 24 one much more relevant statis­tic that proves his worth; Notre Dame is 27-3 and has won a national title with Rice starting at quarterback. The problem Hice has with statistics is that no numbers have been created to illustrate just how effective he is at di­recting the Notre Dame option attack. "We read the option a lot more than we ever have be­fore," said Irish coach Lou Holtz. "Consequently, Tony has  off and do all the other things. "We do so many things be­cause of the nature of our of­fense and we put so much pres­sure on Tony Rice that I don't know of any other quarterback who could do the things that Tony has done." Not many people in general could go through the adversity Hice has encountered over the last four years. A resident of Woodruff, S.C., his decision to attend Notre Dame was met with severe opposition by South Carolinians, who were pressur­ing him to stay home for school. Low SAT scores made Rice a Proposition 48 victim,  igible for four years. In fact, a South Bend television reporter lost his job in the summer of 1988, after he incorrectly stated that poor grades would make Hice ineligible for the up­coming season. Hice indeed was eligible for the the season, and he led the Irish to their llrst national title since 1977. Along the way, he directed Notre Dame to victo­ries in showdowns with more heralded quarterbacks Steve Walsh, Major Harris and Rodney Peete. All three of those players finished in the top-five in last year's Heisman ballot­ing.  Indiana's Anthony Thompson and Harris. Despite all of Hice's accom­plishments, some people still criticize him and label him as a one-dimensional quarterback. It's that kind of talk that raises the ire of Rice's teammates. "How can you criticize a true winner?" said Irish tailback Hicky Watters. "He'll find a way to win. People say he can't pass, so he'll run on them. When you say he can't run, he'll pass on you." And as much as people down­ absolutely required for wins. Take the 28-24 win over Southern Cal, for example. With the Irish trailing 24-20 in the closing minutes, Hice threw a perfect 40-yard pass to Haghib "Rocket" Ismail. On the very next play, Rice faked out two would-be tacklers, broke two tackles and lunged into the endzone for a 15-yard touch­down run that won the game. "He's like a coach on the field," fullback Anthony Johnson, another Irish tri-cap­tain, said after that game. "What we got out of him is the  
tremendous pressure on him to make decisions all the time. We  one of only two Irish football players ever to meet that fate.  Hice finished  fourth  in  this  grade his passing abilities, until last weekend's 27-10 loss to  attitude every one of us tries to take, 'Don't flinch.' He never  
see an fenses,  awful lot of weird de­and he's got to check  Many observers expected Rice would never manage to stay el­ year's Heisman contest, behind Houston's Andre Ware,  Miami, Rice always made the perfect throws when they were  came into the lack of poise."  huddle with  a  
..  




Thursday, December 14, 1989 The Observer page 23 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 

CROSSWORD 

4:30 p.m. Lecture, "Molecular Mechanisms of Protein Synthesis Inhibition by Macrolides and Type B Syn­ergimycins," Professor Carlo Cocito, Head. International Institute of Cellular and Molecular Pathology, Medical School, University of Louvain, Belgium. Room 238 Audito­rium, Galvin Life Science Center. 
CAMPUS Friday, December 15 
3:00-5:00 p.m. Center for Social Concerns Open House 
Saturday, December 16 
10:30 a.m. Children's Storytelling. Kindergarten through 4th grades. Snite Museum of Art. 
Sunday, December 17 
8:00 p.m. Annual Service of Lessons and Carols. Church of Loretto. Sponsored by SMC Music Department. 

M A 
T 
H 
1 
0 
1 
22 Estuary 25 Sand 26 Columnist Barrett 27 French composer 
Adolphe­28 Vigor 29 Pickled berry 30 Seaport under 
fire in many wars 31 Capel was one 33 Change location 34 Mister, in Bonn 

35 Substance called a pesticide by the E.P.A. 
36 Unit of force 
38 N.F.L. "zebra" 
39 Reggio's locale in Italy 43 Flushed 44 Mallard's milieu 
45 Monel, e.g. 46 Pearl Buck's "The-" 
-· 
47 Cenotaphs 48 Mongol Tartars' 
Golden­50 Ego 51 "-vobis" 
("May you prosper") 
52 Arabian noble 53 Marquis de­54 Mah-jongg 
piece 57 Needlefish 58 Beatty or Sparks 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
WILBUR AND WENDEL 
VJIL(3'Uif:J '(00'1/E t-.oTTA C11V~ UP 11tH~ ttDf?O­ScoPE-511JFF" 
0~, 01t. , l'\l. 8JH~ f>.\lOlOG\I.E! r'll\ ~'(. lb'tis1\-1(1..1? st.t:, If's OK 10 FIG\\"\ j\JS\ A llffi.E BIT \I= '{OU 5(1..'{ '{OIJ'R£ ~R'{ t>.ffiRW~RO. ,..-----4 
H~t<, it~ r ,r,af 
IS &\SED ON TH'r At.X.1 WT 5HIEF" ·n·\1fT TtiE: ~A~"tlol WA5 'Tit~ 
C~R or-"fli~ vNt­lltRSE . A5'r~oL..t'G!( IS BA~eo oN AN UNttt./TH 


BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
• 
JAY HOSLER 
5oRf. You M(JjT "8~ A CAPRICORN. CA-'P'RICoRIJS DOu"ST C.VEfC?'fTI+I N(n { 
-
"Now this next slide, gentlemen, demonstrates the awesome power of our 20-megaton .•. For crying out loud! Not again!" 
... 
ACROSS 
1 Tennis scores 5 Fabricator 9 M.D.'s group 
12 Musical composition 14 STATE motto: Part I 16 STATE motto: Part II 
17 STATE (100th anniversary: 11/2/89) 
19"Saii­Unionl": Longfellow 
20Woeful 21 Gazer 23 Liquid 
measures: Abbr. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
24Angry 25 Fox and 
muscadine 29 Billiard shot 32 Roundup 33 "Heart of 
Georgia" city 340wned 37 In an unsuitable 
way 40 Scottish cap 41 Embankment 42 Navigation 
system 43 Allude 44 STATE capital 45 Word after 
parking or postage 

'(oJ c.avu:> 
LET \liE 
R£11.0 t>.\.L ~OOR CO~\C. 
BooKS. 
48 Ardent 49 Departure 51 Least fleshy 55 STATE's 
Congressman -Johnson 56 Sleight of hand 59 Priestly vestment 60 African antelope 61 Move sideways 62 French plural article 63 Release 64 Clarinet beak 
DOWN 
1 Mornings: Abbr. 2 Pen 3 Chatelaine's case 
4 Scottish tartan pattern 5 Hawaiian feasts &Affixes a signature 1 Fuss 8 Soaks flax 9 Marketplace 10 French painter of water lilies 11 Worship 13 STATE motto: Part Ill 15 Reasonable practices 
-::+.:+:+=-! 18 Marriage settlements 
-
• 

r 
Sports
page 24 Thursday, December 14, 1989 

Irish women fall to Michigan State 
Spartans' switch to zone defense confuses Notre Dame 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 
Plagued by injuries and ill­nesses, the Notre Dame women's basketball team had ils two-game winning streak snapped Thursday night by Michigan State in a 64-48 decision at the Joyce ACC. 
Notre Dame (4-2) started out on a hot streak, and led 6-0 with 16:17 remaining,until ju­nior forward Hoz Van Guilder put the Spartans on the board, converting a single free-throw attnmpt.

• 
The Irish led by as much as nine midway through the first half, thanks to a swarming de­fense, a powerful inside game and consistent outside shooting against the Spartans' man-to­man dllfense. 
Michigan State (4-2) then switched its defensive forma­tion to a zone, frustrating the Irish outside game and negat­ing the Irish advantage inside. 

• 
-
The Spartans capitalized on 11 nine-point run, taking a sur­Irish turnovers as they climbed prising 36-25 lead with barely to a 27-25 lead at the half. 3:30 elapsed. This run, com­
"We shot well against their man-to-man, but when they went into their zone defense, they took away our outside shooting, and we were unable to move the ball inside," said Irish coach Muffet McGraw. "Their defense really played a great game." 
Notre Dame shot 50 percent (12-of-24 from two-point range, 0-of-2 on three-point­ers) from the field in the first half, paced by the 4-for-5 shooting of sophomore guard Comalita Haysbert. Junior guard Eileen Shea led the Spartan first-half scoring as­sault, netting 10 points (3-of-5 from the field, 2-of-3 on free throws). The Spartans shot 40 percent from the field, hitting 10-of-25 shots, and 2-of-3 three point-attempts. 
Michigan State opened the second half with a devastating bined with the Spartans' five­
point spurt at the end of the first half of play, put the Irish into a hole which they never 
managed to escape from. 

"We need more help from our bench," said McGraw. "Krissi Davis played with tremendous pain, and we need more bench support, which we didn't get tonight." 
Notre Dame was held to eight of thirty-six (22%) shooting from the field in the second half, as the Michigan State de­fense, led by junior forward Cherie Swarthout, stole the thunder from the Irish attack. The Spartans also bested the Irish on the boards, out-re­bounding the Irish 14-9 on the offensive end, and 27-20 on the defensive end. 
The victory by Michigan State avenged a 57-55 defeat at the hands of the Irish last season. 


The ChlerverI Pa8ick Kusek Krissi Davis (dark uniform) was one of several injured Notre Dame women's basketball players in action Wednesday night, as the Irish lost 64-48 to Michigan State. Davis had sprained her back against Marquette last weekend. 
Stats don't mean much in figuring Rice's worth 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 

It's a scene that's become all too familiar in college football stadiums across the country this season. 
Notre Dame has recorded another victory, with Irish quarterback Tony Hice has compiled some respectable but not overly spectacular statis­tics. Then the losing coach steps into the interview room and claims Hice was the differ­ence in the game. 
"If there's one better than him in the country, I'm glad we're not playing him," said Michigan State coach George Perles. ''I'm glad I'll never see him again." 
That was after Hice threw two interceptions and fumbled in a 21-13 win over the Spartans. 
"If he's not a Heisman guy, I don't know who is," Pitt coach 
• Hagan feature I page 22 
Mike Gottfried said after a 45-7 loss to the Irish in whieh Hice was just 1-of-7 passing. 
Said Michigan coach Bo Schembechler, "lie's as dan­gerous a runner as we'll play against all year. or all the guys we'll play this year, he's the most difficult to handle." Thosn comments followed a 24-19 Notre Dame win over Michigan, where Hice had just 85 yards of total offense. 
Therein lies the mystery of Hice's rerognition as a college superstar. The senior quarter­back has completed less than half his passes, has a 9-2 ratio of interceptions to passing touchdowns and has rushed for less than 1,000 yards. 
But the Irish tri-captain has 
see RICE/ page 22 
Schembechler plans to resign after bowl 
ND looking to end 3-game slump 
No. 13 UCLA brings undefeated record into Joyce ACC 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 

The beginning had promise. The present has disarray. 
The promise could return Sunday when the Notre Dame men's basketball team hosts 13th-ranked UCLA at 4 p.m. in the Joyce ACC. 
• NO over break I page 18 
The Irish (1-3) will be trying to snap a three-game losing streak when they face the Bruins. Notre Dame's slide is two weeks old and includes losses to Louisville, Indiana and Marquette. 
"It's a matter of getting some home cooking," Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps said. "As we get ready to play UCLA, it's very good to be playing at home. This has been one of the 

Digger Phelps 

traditional rivalries in college basketball." 
This will be the first of four consecutive home games for Notre Dame before the new year. The Irish will play Valparaiso, Lafayette and Butler before a six-game road trip to begin 1990. But a vic­tory over UCLA would give a slumping Notre Dame team a big dose of confidence. 
"I think everybody is disap­pointed -the students, the fans, the coaches and the players," Phelps said. "When they come in here, our students know it's UCLA, no matter what we've been through. I think the sixth man could be a factor. We need what we've been seeing on the road. We need them (crowd) to go after it for 40 minutes." 
Notre Dame has won four of the last five meetings, but this could be one of the most tal­ented UCLA teams in years. The Bruins have streaked to a 4-0 record with wins over Santa Clara, Washington, Washington State and San Diego. If they de­feat the Irish, it would mark the first time since the 1982-83 
season  that the  Bruins  have  
opened  with  five consecutive  
wins.  
see BRUINS/ page 18  

-
• 
ANN ARBOH, Mich. (AP) ­Though Bo Schembechler says he's in good shape, age and wisdom have taught him not to push his luck. 
And so, after his Michigan team plays Southern California in the Hose Bowl. college football's winningest aetive coach will turn the Wolverine program over to his assistant, Gary Moeller. 
"I want it understood that I am in good shape physically," Schembechler said. "The primary reason for me stepping down at this time is that I don't want to run my luck too far. I've been fortunate to coach for 20 years following a heart attack. I just think at 60 years of age, it's time for me to step down." 
Schembechler, who leaves coaching without ever having 

won a national 
championship, will remain as 
athletic director -a post 
added to his title in 1988 
when Don Canham retired. 
He said he was uncertain how long he would stay on as athletic director. He also said he was concerned his name and presence might overshadow his successor. 
''I'm not sure that it's in the best interest of Michigan or the program or myself or Gary Moeller for me to be hanging around. It might be pretty difficult for me to sit in the athletic director's chair. I'd want to go to practice, and I don't think I should do that," Schembechler said. 
Schembechler hinted he was stepping down on 
see BO/ page 19 





