---------~-"~ ~----~-~ 

VOL XXIII NO 24 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
10 killed" in Grand Canyon pla!!~w~!!~~"d 
Assoc1ated Press 
TUSAYAN, Ariz.-A sightsee­ing plane crashed into a wooded hill near the Grand Canyon Airport on Wednesday, killing 10 people and injuring the other 11 people aboard. 
The aircraft's wings were sheared off by tall Ponderosa pines, but some passengers survived because the fuselage of the de Havilland Twin Otter remained largely intact, said Sheriff Joe Richards. The two crew members were killed, he said. 
National Park Service Ranger Paul Crawford, who was among the first to reach the wreckage, said some of the passengers were walking around when he arrived at the scene on a small ridge about 300 yards east of a runway. 

"They were shellshocked. They had that empty, dazed look," he said. 
Canyon Airlines plane went down at 9:49 a.m., said FAA spokeswoman Elly Brekke. Brekke said the plane hit trees, flipped over and crashed after veering on its landing ap­proach. Elizabeth Seibold, co­owner of Grand Canyon Air­lines, said from Las Vegas that the plane was on a sightseeing flight and was coming in for a landing. Seibold said all those aboard were Americans. The airport is located about five miles south of the Grand Canyon. The injured were being taken by ambulance, airplane and helicopter to the Flaggstaff Medical Center about 75 miles away. 

Hospital spokeswoman Lau­rin Bosse said the condition of the injured who had arrived ranged from serious to critical, 
see CRASH I page 5 

Two Notre Dame seniors given engineering award 
Special to The Observer 
Paul Dankoski. an engi­neering senior from Midland, Mich., and John Slattery, and engineering senior from Hochester, N.Y., have been awarded the William L. Everitt Student Award of Excellence by the National Engineering Consortium. 
The award is offered an­nually to students majoring in electrical engineering, computer engineering, or computer science and rank­ing in the top 10 perceht of their class. In addition to ex­cellent grades, the students must have an active interest in telecommunications and 


, .. 
computers and be inv{)lved in 
various activities and 
professional organizations. 
The National Engineering Consortium is a non-profit organization which sponsors the National, Eastern, and Western Communications Forums. 
The Everitt award wimie:rs w from all engineering school!'f will be honored in October g. · the National Communica> tions Forum in Chicago. They will receive recognition for their outstanding scholastic achievement at an NCF banquet attended by professionals in the telecom-:: munications industry. 

How about those Cubbies? 
Chicago fans have reason to celebrate after the Cubs clinched the NL East Division title Tuesday night. 
Bush urges educational reforms 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va.­President Bush urged governors at an education summit Wednesday to forge fundamen­tal changes to rescue the na­tion's troubled schools, but was told in return the federal gov­ernment must spend more if that goal is to be reached. 
"We've got to challenge the education system if we're to meet the challenge of educa­tional excellence," Bush told the governors in a pep talk that opened the nation's first educa­tional conference between a president and the states' execu­tives. 
All agreed that help is needed for a national school system wracked by drugs, high dropout rates and mediocrity. 
But behind closed doors Bush and members of his Cabinet heard what they did not want to hear: that the federal gov­ernment's commitment has to grow. 
"If they would give us a 5­year-old that· is healthy and alert, the system would be much more productive," said Republican Gov. Garrey Car­ruthers of New Mexico. 
The summit scene was the historic campus of the Univer­sity of Virginia, whose estab­lishment was the proudest ac­complishment of Thomas Jef­ferson -America's first "education president." The uni­versity is still called "Mr. Jef­ferson's school" and Bush re­ferred to it that way, too. 
Bush dined with the gover­nor at Jefferson's famous home, Monticello, atop a nearby mountain. A fife and drum corps played and soldiers in colonial costume bearing the flags of the states lined the walkway to the main entrance, where Bush and his wife, Bar­bara, stood in a receiving line that passed the diners through the building into the back yard. 
An Army band played swing tunes for the guests at rose­and orchid-bedecked tables be­neath a large tent. 
Governors circulated a memo outlining their own goals. Their plan called for eliminating illit­eracy, curtailing the dropout rate and making American stu­dents the equal of their coun­terparts anywhere in the world, 
see BUSH/ page 5 

Panelists voice opinion on the ordination of women 
By CHRISTINE WALSH 
Assistant News Editor 

To a packed crowd, panelists from the newly formed Committee on Notre Dame's Position on the Ordination of Women discussed the exclusion of women from public positions within the Church and the need for the University to make a stand on this issue, Wednesday. 
The three panelists in the dis­cussion were Teresa Godwin Phelps, associate professor of law, Father Thomas O'Meara, Warren professor of theology, and Sister Regina Coli, director of field education in the de­partment of theology. 
"Notre Dame has to, as an institution, recognize that we have a justice issue here. We've got to say that there is injustice against our women... a discriminatory practice," said Professor John Houck, co-chair of the committee. 
In a letter to University offi­cials, the committee stated its objectives as threefold: 1.) to express the committee's soli­darity with the women of the university who are being dis­criminated against with regard to this issue, 2.) provide public forums to explore what Notre Dame and other Catholic insti­tutions can do about the ban, and 3.) to work through cam­pus and administrative organi­zations to express the Univer­sity's position on the discrimi­natory policies of the Catholic Church on the ordination of women. 
"The Church systematically discriminates against women," said Phelps, a self-professed 'Catholic feminist.' 
"It's an issue of fairness," said Phelps, and "women are fully legitimate and participa­tory beings." 
"No one has a right to be or­dained... we only ask that the Church consider our position," Phelps added. 
see PANEL I page 4 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
Theresa Goodwin Phelps, Father Thomas O'Meara, and Sister Regina Coil, pictured left to right, field ques­tions at Wednesday's meeting of the Committee on Nore Dame's Position on the Ordination of Women. 
The Observer Thursday, September 28, 1989
page 2 
WORLD BRIEFS 
Customs agents arrested two West German Civilian Ser­vice workers trying to smuggle LSD-soaked stickers bearing the image of Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev into Dusseldorf, au­thorities said Wednesday. The stamps were similar to previous drug-smuggling attempts in which pictures of Batman, Goofy and 
E.T. have been used to disguise LSD doses. 
Up to 33 fishermen and traders died when their boat, be­lieved by authorities to be overloaded, capsized Tuesday in Lake Victoria, Kenya. It was the second major accident on Lake Victo­ria this month. On Sept. 12, 12 people drowned when their canoe capsized while traveling from Uganda to Kenya. 
Luck wasn't on track for The Norwegian State Railroad this week. When workers rolled out fire hoses to extinguish a fire whieh was accidently set by their own bonfire, they found a defec­tive coupling had cut water pressure. The blazing structure then collapsed onto the tracks,warping the rails. The fire left about 1,000 passengers stranded for hours in the mountains outside Bergen until they were finally put onto buses. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
Ten people were poisoned accidentally at a Topeka, Kan. nightspot Saturday when a cleaning solution was inadvertently served in place of liquor, police said. The victims all ordered a drink containing schnapps, but do to the similarity of the contain­ers, were served some type of dishwashing liquid. 
A mistrial was declared when a juror realized she already had helped convict the defendant in an earlier trial. The Wichita, Kan. trial of James Johnson, 38, charged with aggravated bur­glary and aggravated battery, ended Wednesday after a juror rec-. ognized the defendent as the same man she had helped send to prison in 1982. 
INDIANA BRIEFS 
In John Dillinger's image, Robert Gregory pulled a fake pistol which he had carved from a bar of blackened soap to escape from the Lake County Government Center last February. Tuesday, Gregory was sentenced to 20 years in prison for the two counts of robbery and escape. 
Outlaw John Dillinger carved a gun out of a piece of wood and blackened it with shoe polish to escape from the Crown Point Jail in 1934. 
State health officials declared a measles emergency Wednesday at three Clay County schools after an elementary school student was diagnosed as having "old-fashioned" measles.The alert was the fourth measles emergency declared this year in Indiana. Porter County, the University of Notre Dame and Ball State University were covered by previous alerts. 
CAMPUS BRIEFS 
Fred Sharkey has been moved up to fair condition and out of intensive care according to a spokesperson from St. Joseph's Medical Center. The Stanford freshman fell out of a window in Pangborn Hall last Friday night. 
WEATHER 

Warmer 
Sunny and warmer today, highs near 75. Warmer tonight and becoming partly cloudy after midnight, lows in the lower 50s. Becoming mostly sunny and mild Friday, highs in the lower 70s. 

ALMANAC MARKET UPDATE 
On September 27: Closings for Wed., Sept. 27, 1989 
e In 1939: Warsaw surren­
Dow Jones dered after weeks of resistance Industrial Average to invading forces from Nazi 
2673.06 

Germany and the Soviet Union up 9.12 during World War II. e In 1954: "Tonight!" hosted S&P 500 +0.45 to 349.80 by Steve Allen, made its debut 
Currency exchange

on NBC television. 
e In 1959: A typhoon bat­Mark ~ .0014 to 1.8805 OM/$ tered the main Japanese island Yen +.03 to 140.32 ¥/$ of Honshu, killing nearly 5,000 
Pound+ .10to 161.60$/£

people. e In 1964: The Warren Com­
Precious Metals

mission issued a report con­cluding that Lee Harvey Oswald Gold {7 $0.80 to $372.30 I oz. had acted alone in assassinat­
Silver~ .20¢ to $5.335 I oz.

ing President John F. Kennedy in November 1963. 
Source: Prudential Bache Securities 

lnformat•on compiled from Observer wlfes and Observer staff reports 

Pessimism is the key that opens the door of happiness 
In grade school, a teacher once asked me, "What do you call 1>omebody who thinks the entire world is out to get him?" 
I answered, "A realist." 
Ever since then, I've had a reputation as a bit of a pessimist. I don't mind that; it's accurate enough. But lately, it seems to me, pessimism has been getting a bit of a bum rap. 
Everywhere I look, I see the virtues of optimism trumpeted. 
Books with titles like "The Power of Positive Thinking" and "Choose Your Own Greatness" give blithe assurances that if you just have faith in yourself and think that nothing is impossible, then everything is possible. Reach for your dreams with confidence, and you won't fail, they say. 
News programs have inspirational, heart­warming stories about people who struggled against incredible odds and succeeded. When asked about how they did it, they say, "It was hard, but I knew from the start that if I set my mind to it and tried, I would make it." 
If you don't believe me, just go over to the bookstore and look at some of the cheesy posters that have uplifting messages like "You must believe to achieve." All of these things don't inspire me-they disgust and sicken me. 
The biggest problem I have with them is that they simply aren't true. Sure, it's nice to hear about people who tried and succeeded. But there are many people who, no matter how hard they try at something, will miserably fail. Look at Gerry Faust. Simply having a positive attitude doesn't guarantee success. 
In fact, a positive attitude is a liability. If people go into an endeavor absolutely convinced they will succeed, they will be totally unprepared for failure. Their self-images will be shattered, and their lives turned into travesties. They will become disillusioned and bitter, sort of like me. 
When I make some cynical comment about an "inspirational" human-interest story in the paper, sometime people say, "That's horrible. How could you say that? Would you rather not 
have the quadruple amputee swim the Atlantic Ocean? Would you rather have her just give up?" 
People who say these things misunderstand my position. Some people think that pessimists have to be glum, dour people who wear black and shuffle 
OF INTEREST 
Notre Dame CrimeStoppers will hold a meeting today at 4:30 p.m. in the Sorin Room of LaFortune Student Center for all who signed up on Activities Night. 
The St. Edward's Players will hold an informational meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in Room 321 St. Edward's Hall for anyone inter­ested in working in the cast and crew for this year's production, "Noises Off." 
League of Black Business Students: Kathleen H. Gandy will lecture on the topic, "Interviewing and the Importance of Network­ing," at 7 p.m. tonight in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Student Center. Highlights include interviewing, networking, graduate school, and entrepreneurship. 
ND/SMC Right to Life will hold its first meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune Student Center. Professor Charles Rice of the Law School will be speaking on The Missouri Case. 
AIESEC will meet tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Room 124 Hayes-Healy. 

'That's the key to happiness: lowered expectations.· 
Tim O'Keefe Assistant News Editor 
along with their shoulders hunched over, muttering things like, "Nothing makes any difference. Why should I bother trying at all, since I will inevitably fail? Soon enough, the indifferent hand of Fate will come down and smash me into oblivion anyway." 
I'm not saying anything like that. I don't think we should all just give up, shrivel up and die with a small whimper of self-pity. We all have the right, even the duty, to try as hard as possible for goals we care about. 
What we don't have the right to expect, however, is success. Maybe it will come to us, maybe not. Our actions are under our control, but maqy of the things that determine our lives are totally uncontrollable. 
This recognition of reality has made me a lot less anxious. I know the universe is a pretty messed up place, and it's liable to pull all sorts of nasty little tricks on me. But because it's beyond my control, I don't worry about it. If something bad happens, that's what I expected anyway, so I'm not disappointed. And if something good happens, it's a pleasant surprise. 
That's the key to happiness: lowered expectations. 
If you've gotten all the way to this final paragraph, thank you! I didn't think anyone would actually read this column all the way through. 
(This column appeared in The Observer on Nov. 19, 1987.) 
Tim O'Keefe is a senior philosophy major and assistant news editor of The Observer. The opinion expressed in the Inside column belongs to the author and is not necessarily the opinion of The Observer. 
Student Pugwash Notre Dame Presents: "What Ever Happened to ... Nuclear Winter," a lecture by Paul Kenney, Ph.D Professor of Physics, tonight at 7 p.m. in Galvin Auditorium. 
Gf:!rman. Club will have a mandatory meetmg tomght at 7:30 p.m. German Depart­ment, 3rd floor O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
WVFI News invites all interested in joining to WVFI News Staff to attend an organizational meeting tonight at 8:00 p.m. in the station, lo­cated in Suite 210 of LaFortune. 
Returnees From Abroad: The Foreign Relations Commission of Student Government will meet briefly tonight at 8:30 p.m. in the Stu­dent Government Office, 2nd floor, LaFortune Student Center. Representatives of all programs are needed for input about the newsletter and other activities. Call Tom at 283-3207. 
Sophomore Cruise Pictures located in the display case outside of the Sophomore Class Office, 2nd. floor LaFortune are available for purchase through Friday. 
Design Editor ............... Tricia Grohman 
Design Assitant ........... Kristin Costello 
Typesetters .................. Molly Schwartz 
.............,........................................ Dan Towers 

News Editor.... ...... Greg Lucas News Copy Editor ........... Monica Yant Sports Copy Editor......... Bob Mitchell Viewpoint Editor....... Christine Walsh Viewpoint Copy Editor Janice O"Leary Viewpoint Layout... .......... )<atie Foster Accent Editor ............... Colleen Cronm Accent Copy Editor ..........Terri Walsh Accent Designer ............. Alison Cocks Typists ............................Erin Schirtzinger NO Day Editor ............... Colleen Malloy Photographer ....... Andrew McCloskey Ads Designers ........... Shannon Roach ..................................................Jeanne Naylor ......................................................Sheila Jones Business Editor .................. Liz Panzica Business Copy Editors Lauren Deluca ..........................................................Mike Kolar 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be pur· chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
----~-----~-~ ­
Thursday, September 28, 1989 The Observer page 3 
42 law schools attend Notre Dame gathering 

ByDAN DWYER Staff Reporter 

Representatives of 42 law schools discussed their schools with Notre Dame students and distributed applications and other information Wednesday at the seventh annual Law School Caravan in the Monogram Room of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Cen­ter. 
"This was an opportunity for any Notre Dame student inter­ested in law school to come and meet representatives from schools across the country." said Barry Schulock, president of the Pre-Law Society, one ot the sponsors of the event. 
"The purpose of this gather­ing is to make prospective law students aware of the many dif­ferent schools and what they offer," said Schulock. 
The Caravan was attended by many of the 250 members of the Pre-Law Society, in addition to students from the South Bend area. Advertisements in the South Bend Tribune were purchased by the Pre-Law Soci­ety. 
Schulock said that although 
see LAW I page 4 

SMC campus newspaper considered by SMC board 
ND receives $2 million in gifts in fiscal '89 
Special to The Observer 
Tlw L:nivPrsitv of \otrP Damp, has bPromP th<: fourth univflr­silv in history to rP<'PiVP more thitt $2 miliion in corporate and foundation matching gifts during a single fiscal year. 
This record was made possi­ble by a $207.443 matching gift from the IBM Corporation, whieh offers its employees a 5­to-1 matching gift opportunity. IBM's matching gift is the largest the University has ever received. 
Notre Dame received a total of $2,034,093 in matching gifts during the 1989 fiscal year, which ended June 30. This ex­
!llfPPCf 8/RT!I!Jift( Lt(/1!1;tf{)R!Jif/1 
(Do you know what the big question is?) 
-tfOtiR81~8ROT!fER 


GLASSES orCONrACfS 
Get a complete pair of glasses or contact lenses for
$492£
PAIR 

Softmate Clear Daily or Extended Wear
OR Tinted contact lenses,
Dai2or$§99Sar 
10% off glassees with student ID 
South Bend 1111 E. Ireland Rd. Broadmoor Plaza 
291-4000 
ffi ~ II ijl 

2dlff·~:~~·..:;·If.~r~b ·o· ~51::1 
Eyeexam required lorcontacts. No otherdlscounte,prevl0111 ordereoraleheme apply. 
ceeded both last year's $1.45 million total and the Univer­sity's previous record total of $1,578,185. reached in 1987. 
Before 1989, only three other universities--Harvard, Prince­ton, and Yale--had reached the $2 million matching gift mark. 
By LESLIE LONGVAL News Staff 

Mary Johlie, a Saint Mary's sophomore, proposed that Saint Mary's consider starting its own newspaper. At Wednes­day night's Board of Gover­nance meeting Johlie said that a newspaper would add to the coverage received in The Ob­server. 
"There's not enough publicity 
St. Edward's Hall Players 
Informational meeting for all interested in the production of Noises Off. 
Thursday, Sept. 28 321 St. Ed's 7:00pm 
m ~ 
for Saint Mary's activities," said Johlie. 
She said that the publication should include news in sports, academics, student govern­ment. and residence halls. She also suggested that professors and other students submit arti­cles for publication. 
Other board members said that it should be more of an in­formational newsletter than a newspaper that could be pub­lished more frequently than the current newsletter, but cover more information. Student Body President Lisa Catenacci emphasized that the publication would not be a break from The Observer, but an additional publication for SMC students. 
Suggestions for security were also discussed and a possible Security Awareness Week was proposed. 


C-:iC2!(}),~~~1t 
B *O)*~Jl:~~*fiJ<, NEW YORK~ LOS ANGELES"'(" ~HHiinl ~fi\.' ~ T a B *O):tk:M;~O)iU&~:ffi:ill., "'C \.' .g m$~0)•~~~~~7~-~~~~"'t"~ 
f.L.~~-toJ....::.t--~ --c:·t;t, .Ji~H=~~1t.t= t 'J 
<~ --c:· \., g a*~~0) .=. -;;(t=lii5 ;{ g t:. t1>, E*A~~~-*~AO)~tJI>O)*A~~~O) ~rr~J1Ufi*Am~O)!lHft~rr-:>'LL'1 To ~lf*Bl, ~ Li6h(;t""f'ac Toll Free Dial--c:··t'-3 .:t··o ~-t! JJ....::.t--~ UlJtHt~lJ~$ m~ ,N~t(=.hn), MfiYi.l(t;l?t-;n')* a*~ra,L'AM9: DD~PM6: DO (± 0 a, ~.5?.a1*~) 
Phone 1-800-537-2186 (Toll Free Dialt= f.!: ? 'L t-5 l) 1 To) 

Mtl : ~HIJ~, IIJC~, .$~~ ~M~t=, ~~ o ±;;f: o ~~o;jftt;.loi.~oft ~ o gog o ;~~~:Wxj( 
L'L\.'g1Jo 
im~Bl~ 10~288±'L.A (7:t) 11~48±N.Y. 
----------------~------------­

page 4 The Observer Thursday, September 28, 1989 
Police quell Quayle protests in Manila 

AP Photo 

Vice President Dan Quayle met with Philippine President Corazon Aquino Wednesday during an official U.S. 
courtesy call in Manila. The leaders discussed among other things the future of American military bases in 
the Philippines. 
day's answers in scriptures 
Associated Press 
MANILA, Philippines-Police hurled tear gas Wednesday to disperse 2,000 leftists demon­strating against Vice President Dan Quayle and American mili­tary bases here, while President Corazon Aquino aceepted a U.S. offer to discuss the bases' fu­turo. 
Quayle called the ambush­slayings of two American civil­ians on Tuesday "cowardly murders" and said a majority of Filipinos want the bases to remain. 
"Let me be direct: terrorists will not drive Americans from the Philippines," he told U.S. troops and dependents at Clark Air Base and the Subic Bay naval base, the largest of the six American installations here. 
Police fired tear gas after 
Panel 
continued from page 1 
Not only are women inade­quately represented by not al­lowing them to enter public of­fice, but men and women alike are inadequately represented because of the Church's dis­crimination against women, said Phelps. There are approx­imately 19,000 Catholic parishes in this country, and roughly 1100 of those are to­day without priests, said Coli. 
"If the Church must commit injustice... it must have convineing reasons," Phelps said. "The supply of priests is running low," and many Catholics will not have priests 
demonstrators refused to end 
an anti-base rally near the 
presidential palace. Riot police 
also drove back hundreds of 
others who tried to march to 
the main gate at Clark during 
Quayle's appearance. 
Police arrested 15 7 people for joining anti-Quayle rallies in the capital. 
Opposition to the bases is in­creasing among Filipinos, who sec the facilities as an in­fringement on national sovereignty. 
Quayle met for about an hour with Aquino early Wednesday and gave her a letter from President Bush suggesting talks begin in December on allowing the bases to remain after their lease expires in September 1991. 
in the coming decades, said Phelps. 
From the theological per­spective, O'Meara said, "The Catholic approach is one of re­alism and one of reasons." O'Meara explained the concept of the Kingdom of God, in rela­tion to the Church's attitude toward the position of women. 
The Church must come to grips with new issues, said O'Meara. "When half of the human race is excluded from the public role, the Church re­verts back to tribal religion ... We are reestablishing elite groups (of men)" he said. 
The Kingdom of God is about human beings, and not just men, said O'Meara. 
"We can't expect to find to-written 2,000 years ago," said Coli. 

Scripture doesn't explicitly exclude women from public po­sitions, and "Christ's intention wouldn't be transgressed if women were ordained," Coli added. 
"This is a justice issue ... If they {women) don't have this option, why are they being edu­cated," said Ann Seckinger, an­other committee member. 
"The University has got to make a statement that this (discrimination) is wrong," said Houck. Notre Dame should band together with other Catholic institutions and take the case to the American Catholic Bishops, he said. 
Law 
continued from page 3 

there are five major regional gatherings of law schools in key cities around the country, there is an advantage to this smaller convention. "Seniors can pick up information and applications from a school that he or she thinks is best suited to his needs," said Schulock. 
The Caravan, also sponsored by the Offices of Career Place­ment and the College of Arts and Letters, drew members of' the law school's admissions of­fices and graduate students as representatives. 
"In the early 1980s, applica­tions to law schools were de­clining at a rapid paee. We then saw the need for these gather­ings where we ean get information out to the students," said a repre­sentative, who asked to remain anonymous. 
"We are looking for competitive students, students who rank in the ninetieth percentile and above in the whole nation, and Notre Dame is a good plaee to get our message across," said Edward Hendrickson, dean of admissions at the Seton llall University Sehool of Law. 
The partners and professional staff of KPMG Peat Marwick are pleased to announce that the following graduates of Notre Dame will be joining our Firm during 1989: CHICAGO CLEVELAND Carolyn Burke William Wolf Paula Dougherty Joe Jarosz LOS ANGELES Tim Kenessey Mike Lawler Sean Hoffman Pat Marget Chris K vochak Mary Strittmatter Fran Sweeney MILWAUKEE Maggie Thomason Colleen Thompson John Huff Michael Thumherr MINNEAPOLIS BOSTON Mike Chalmers Albert Mazloom Michael Ryan ROCHESTER Michael Whitaker Matt Sommers CINCINNATI David Warth Julia Dale Peat Marwick will be on campus October 9th and lOth to interview qualified students for outstanding opportunities in Accounting and Auditing, and Tax throughout the United States. We look forward to seeing you on campus.  

----------------------------------------------------------------------------· 

Thursday, September 28, 1989 The Observer page 5 
Pandora's fights illiteracy in youth 
By JOHN ZALLER Staff Reporter 
Pandora's Books, a book­seller in South Bend, joined with other booksellers and publishers across the country this week to begin the Year of the Young Reader campaign. 
The campaign is designed to fight illiteracy in youth by en­couraging children to pick up books and read. 
Pandora's Books will be giv­ing away books for 1 cent to all local school children through grade 12. Any interested reader may select a book of their choice for a penny, and the youth then has the option to keep the book selected or to re­turn the book for another. 
"It seems fitting to us that during National Banned Book Week we should announce our program to give any student the book of their choice," said Mandy Arnold, manager of the neighborhood bookstore. 
National Banned Book Week (September 23-30) is sponsored by the American Booksellers Association to alert the reading public that censorship still ex­ists. 
Many books are banned by school districts, libraries, par­ent associations, and towns. Most of theses books are well known. John Steinbeck's "Of Mice and Men" (profanity) and Stephen King's "Shining" (ridicule of Christianity) are among those banned in certain areas of the country. 
Arnold believes that while those who ban books act with what they consider to be the 


Larry Nickey, a Grand Canyon National Park Fire Department

Crash 
captain, said there was fuel in continued from page 1 the plane's cockpit area but the 
wreckage did not catch fire. with lacerations, fractures and "It's just good luck that we head wounds. didn't have a fire," Richards 
said. 

The identities of the dead and injured were not immediately Nickey said firefighters cut available. out the plane's bottom to free a highest of motives, they are, in fact, doing more harm than good. According to Arnold and other booksellers, the banning of books in this country is con­trary to the First Amendment. 

"Our recent experience with the 'Satanic Verses' has caused us to become much more active in defending our right to read what we chose," Arnold added, referring to the bombings of four bookstores in England last week as paperback versions of the controversial Muslim novel were released. 
The goal of the program, according to Arnold, is to turn the negative implications of censorship into a seed of curiosity in the minds of the young people in the community. 
man and a woman. He said they were the only two still alive in the plane when he arrived. 
A National Transportation Safety Board investigation team was not expected to reach the airport until late Wednes­day. Richards said the plane "possibly had a power failure or may have struck a power line." 
There was a small brushfire caused by a downed power line but it was not known it the plane hit the line as it crashed. 
~STEAEARIMF~QSQRIOB;::.-~~1~~. 100 CENTER • MISHAWAKA
...: 
_ )tv 

Featuring Friday night seafood buffet 
and Sunday brunch 219_259_9925
House
P.!.:>,.-'LM'<T 

~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;:;;;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiirj
1 

[}i]fiD[p)[p)W ~oUit[h)cQl®W lr®~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~c c
c 


!!~ed~page 1 
espec1a· IIy · m rnathemafICS and science. After the first round of meet­
ings, there was sharp and sar­castic criticism of some of the governors from William Ben­nett, Bush's drug policy coordi­nator who served as secretary of education in the Reagan Administration. 
Bennett told reporters that in addition to "a couple of feisty exchanges about education and defense spending ... there was pap -standard Democratic pap. There was standard Re­publican pap...." 
Added Bennett: "Much of the discussion took place in total absence of any knowledge of what works or what's effective in the actual experience of school. 
BBFOBBYOU HAVE '1'0 BOllY YODB. HEAD IN 
BOOKS ... 
Come See Us/ 
HAIRCUT SHAlviPOO &BLOW DRY 
$1Q95 
• No Appointment! 
• 7 Thzys a Week! 
• I'BBB Tann:ing ­
Buy 4-Get 41'BBB! 

Business
page 6 Thursday, September 28, 1989 
Sony gobbles up Columbia 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Sony Corp. struck a $3.4 billion deal Wednesday to buy Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc., producer of such movies as "Ghostbusters" and TV hits like "Who's The Boss." 
The deal comes 21 months after the huge Japanese video and audio equipment maker bought CBS Hecords for $2 billion. It marks the biggest step of Sony's push into the software side of the entertainment business that will provide products such as movies and records to complement its stereos, televisions and videocassette recorders. 
The agreement also extends 
Sony's $27 a share offer should provide a big payday for Coca-Cola Co., which stands to collect $1.45 billion in gross proceeds from selling its 49 percent stake in Columbia. Coca-Cola signed an option agreement with Sony to tender its nearly 54 million shares of Columbia stock, subject to approval by Coca-Cola's board, which is expeced to meet Monday. 
Coca-Cola declined comment on what it intends to do with the cash. 
In trading Wednesday on the New York Stock Exchange, Columbia rose 37 1/2 cents a share to $26.62 1/2 while Coca­Cola gained 50 cents a share to $64.62 1/2. 
Sony reportedly had been looking for a movie studio for more than a year in an effort to extend its reach into new areas of the entertainment business that it already serves as a dominant maker of consumer electronics. 

• Michael Schulhof, vice 
chairman  of  Sony  Corp.  of  
America,  said  he  had  held  
informal  discusssions  with  

Columbia executives for about a year but that the talks turned serious only in the past week. He said Sony decided on a proposal over the weekend and presented it on Monday. 
Columbia Chairman Donald Keough, who also is president of Coca-Cola, said Sony was "an ideal buyer." 
,,I" Chicken war calls for new tactics 
, 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO. Texas ­While the colonel's troops are leading in the fried chieken war, newly merged Church's and Popeyes are banking on marketing and franchising tactics to gain ground in the $9 billion industry. 
Church's Fried Chicken Inc. and Popeyes famous Fried Chicken and Biscuits -second and third before the merger among chicken chains behind Kentucky Fried Chicken -will keep their names. 
But Church's old business plan -small restaurants catering to inner city clientele -is undergoing a change as flashier decor, new menu items and some price increases are in store for customers accustomed to small orange and green buildings offering basic, inexpensive chicken. 
The merger was completed Sept. 20 with a shareholders meeting in Metarie, La., ending a process begun last year when AI Copeland, owner of New Orleans-based Popeyes, launched an unsolicited tender offer for San Antonio-based Church's. 

Under a February agreement, Copeland bought 86 percent of Church's stock for $331 million, with fees and other expenses estimated at $150 million. Church's and Popeyes will operate under AI Copeland Enterprises with offices in New Orleans and San Antonio. 
In an attempt to wipe away some of Church's red ink, the company plans to emphasize franchised stores rather than company-owned stores within the Church's division. 
M~lloy stresses bond With area business 
By LIZ PANZICA Business Editor 

John Keane, dean of the School of Business Administration, addressed over 400 at the University's annual luncheon for Michiana business leaders. Wednesday. Keane outlined Notre Dame's business pro-· grams and stressed its com­mitment to ethics. international business development, and community relations. 
Notre Dame's presidnnt, Father Edward Malloy, introduced Keane to the gathering. Malloy pointed out the importance of good university -community re­lations. He said, "We have been trying to pay as dose attention as we can to the community. We want to be good neighbors." 
In Keane's address, he said•. il~faculty fellowships are this dean's number one goal. ''·"'He stressed to ihe attending business leaders that +this helps the 
F' ~eussi hsm~;t~~ "Tfhi·' 
professor up-grade and up­
date Classroom devel· 
w• 

opment...so that you can use 
',''''that?development." Keane Y added, Notre Dame "needs ·· to get better professors, and 
once we get them. to keep them." 
Keane added that the busi­ness school was interested in the international business prospective. "Who among you could do your job in a vacuum. Education can not be that kind if Notre Dame docs its job," he added. "If we don't give a sourcn of culture with business, what are we doing to our students? Even if you have a five-mile radius to your busi­ness, international events will effect the long range prospective," Keane said. 
Keane said ethics in business has always been important at Notre Dame. 
"This university thought about it so long ago and others are only now realiz­ing how important nthics are." 
Keane stressed the bond between Notre Dame and the Michiana business community. He told those in attendance their presence was "tangible evlden<~e that you are interested In cooperation." He said, "They call us tho rust belt but the only thing rusty is the 
metaphor.  Other  cities  
would  like  to  have  South  
Bend's health now."  


DART IS COMING! Direct Access Registration by Telephone 
This fall, all students except Freshmen, will register for classes using DART. Find out how DART works. A video introducing DART will be shown in the Engineering Auditorium at the following times: 
DATE 7:30 ~.m. 8:15p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9/25  Faculty, advisors chairs, deans, etc.  AL Seniors (A-L)  AL Seniors (M-Z)  
9/26  BA Seniors (A-S)  BA Seniors (T-Z) EG Seniors  sc Seniors MBA  
9/27  Grad Students (A-G)  . Grad Students (H-N)  Grad Students (0-Z)  
10/2  LAW (A-R)  LAW (S-Z)  BA Juniors (A-S)  
10/3  AL Juniors (A-L)  AL Juniors (M-Z) EG Juniors  BA Juniors (T-Z)  
10/9  SC Juniors  AL Sophs (A-L)  AL Sophs (M-Z)  
10/10  Faculty, advisors chairs, deans, etc.  BA Sophs (A-S)  SC Sophs BA Sophs (T-Z)  
10/11  EG Sophs  Open to All  Open to All  

If you've missed the meeting scheduled for your class, you are welcome to attend one of the later ones. 
'0'' '0 I 0 0' 'o' • '• 0 
.... t ... " "-. ... ~~'...'.-'•·'..f.,tJ-..l.,!..'...!.\..'...,"•'•'.&'•·"•'-...t.. /1:!~ 1 1 l)·\o·-""="'-"=!'.~
... • L•.•­


It's time to Count On Domino's Pizza!® 
1 2 
r----------------~ r--~-------------~ 
I -MONDAY'S-I I -THURSDAY'S-I 
I I I I
Beat the Clock! The time on THINK THICK! 
I I I I
the clock is the price you pay! 

Get One Medium Pan Pizza 
I I I I I Call from 6pm -7pm order Two 10" One-topping pizzas I I loaded with cheese, Iand the time you call is the price you pay! 
"' 
I Call from 7pm -8pm order Two 12" One-topping pizzas I I and pepperoni I and the time you call is the price you pay! 
I I I I
Call from 8pm-9pm order Two 14" One-topping pizzas 

I~ FORONLY
I and the time you call is the price you pay! I I I Call from 9pm -10pm order Two One-topping Pan Pizzas
I I I I
pizzas and the time you call is the price you pay! 

I ~~ $6.00
I I I
Offer valid only on Mondey. One 

coupon per order. Customer pays I 1 Offer valid only on Thursday. One coupon per order. 1
LI 

sales tax. Valid at listed Customer pays sales tax. Valid at li~te~ loc:ations. 
J 
locations. Umlled delivery area. 

J LUmited delivery area. ©1989 Domtno s Ptzza, Inc. 
. ® C1989 Domlno"s Pizza, Inc. 



r----------------~ 
r----:iNvoiv:----1
I -SUNDAY'S­I Count on Domino's Pizza® I
I DOUBLE FEATURE! 

I I to supply you with I
1 Get Two Small Cheese Pizzas! 

I Two Large Cheese Pizzas I
I 
: anyday of the week! :
I 

-J .lvk FOR ONLY I I II '(W~ FOR ONLY I 
I :~~ $5.49 SM 
I : m.~~ $8.89 : 
I I
I Offer valid only on Sunday. One coupon per order. 

Offer valid anyday of the weeki One coupon per order. 
I Customer pays sales tax. Valid at listed locations. , 

l 
I Customer pays sales tax. Valid at listed locations. I Umited delivery area. ©1989 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 
1 Umited delivery area. ©1989 Domino's pizza, Inc. 1 
-----------------L----------------J 
What in the world are you waitin' for!?! 
CALL NOW! 
Notre Dame University 
271-0300 
1835 South Bend Ave. 
Viewpoint 
Thursday, September 28, 1989 
page 8 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 

Exec. News Edltor ....... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............. Molly Killen VIewpoint Edltor.................... Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ........ Shannon Roach Sports Edltor ....................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ............ Alison Cocks Accent Edltor ............................ John Blasi Systems Manager .............. Mark Derwent Photo Edltor .............................. Eric Bailey OTS Director ................... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Edltor............... Christine Gill Controller ............................. Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­icies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ob­jectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

Political debate forum needed at Notre Dame 
a debate between College He­current events because week by
By Terence Coyne 
publicans and College week they would be exposed to Democrats; I am suggesting, both sides of many different is­
Imagine Father Malloy giv­
however, that this forum occur sues. ing a speech to incoming every week. Who would organize it? I freshmen when suddenly a At many other schools these suggest that the College group of students unsympa­debating societies serve both Democrats and College Hepubli­thetic to Notre Dame's views on social and political functions cans work together to start it. South Africa interrupt the and are usually well attended This would help both sides. meeting with a barrage of in­by students and faculty alike. Each side's opinion would be sults against the administra­At Princeton, they have a year­explained, and students who 
tion. Sound unbelievable? On end tournament to decide their beeame interested in one of the Notre Dame's campus, yes, but best team, which eould easily sides of the issue might join one an inddent similar to this actu­happen at Notre Dame. Ox­of the two dubs. In this ar­ally happened at the University ford's Union Club is world rangement everyone is helped. of' Michigan. Why is it that renowned, with some of' their The students learn. they bneorne Notre Dame seems so politically best debaters traveling around more politically active, and the 
passive? the globe exhibiting their tal­two political elubs create an 
Some may quickly retort that with sports that it becomes al­weekly, in some type of audito­ents. The Union Club requires o.utlet and recruit more nwm­we have an abundance of orga­most a diversion of our atten­rium or meeting place such as semi-formal dress, and their bers. nizations dealing with a wide tion from extracurricular intel­Theodore's. The debate would daily debates are a social center Nothing is stopping it except 
spectrum of issues from the lectual pursuits to athletic pur­have two opposing teams made for the school. people's willingness to beeorne Northern Ireland Awareness suits. up of different students every There is no reason Notre a little more politically active. I group to Amnesty Interna­I do not think it is bad for week. After the fast paced and Dame could not have a debating am not suggesting protesting, tional. But many of these students to be involved in ath­humorous formal debate, stu­forum patterned after the other just debate and current events groups depend on the force of letics, but I do think it is bad if dents and faculty could directly colleges. It would not require education and the desire to a few sincerely interested per­they are done to the exclusion cross examine the participants, much on the part of the stu­make a small but important sonalities, and other groups of other activities. keeping the team members and dents except their attendance difference. arc organized but produce no So, you say, what do I sug­the crowd on their toes. and willingness to cross-exam­
political waves on our campus. gest to correct this perceived I realize that Notre Dame al­ine the debating teams. This Terence Coyne is a sopho­This is not to disparage these imbalance? First, I do not think ready has the Iceberg Debates would increase the knowledge more in the College of Arts and 
groups-! believe they are ef­that it is practical or necessary and only last Monday there was of the student body concerning Letters. fective for their members-but for more students to become only a few organizations have suddenly politically radical and any school wide effect. The one protest things just for the sake LETTERS 
which comes to mind is the of protesting. Of course, I do Apartheid Awareness Group encourage people to protest if which last year met every Fri­they hold a certain belief 
Student emergency conduct commended 
day on the Administration strongly enough that they think buildings steps to protest the change can be affected through Dear Editor: dents for their cooperation, pa­took approximately 30 volun­University's stance toward this action. The events of the past few tience and understanding as teers each day-in addition to South Africa. What I suggest is really an weeks have brought new they responded to the directive the staff of the Publie Health 
Scenes like this are not un­old idea I am stealing from uni­meaning to the term "Notre to receive an immunization. On Department and University common on many other cam­versities such as Oxford, Har­Dame family." Just as a tradi­numerous occasions, the repre­Health Services-to provide the puses, but other campuses are vard, and Princeton. I am not tional family comes together to sentatives from the Public service. not like Notre Dame. We are a stealing it because it came from support each other during Health Department commented very homogeneous group, and it these schools but because it is a times of need, many members on the exceptionally pleasant Hopefully, we have stopped could be this homogeneity genuinely good idea. My sug­of the Notre Dame community and cooperative attitude of the the spread of' measles on our which causes people not to gestion is to create a forum responded to our recent students. campus. If so, it will be due to protest. It seems that a large where students can meet and measles emergency. In a very We also want to acknowledge the outstanding response of the majority of the people agree debate topical political con­short period of time and under the contribution of the numer­entire Notre Dame community. with one another on major po­cerns, such as the drug problem very intense circumstances stu­ous students and staff members Thank you. litical issues, and thus there is or answers to poverty. The fo­dents, staff and elergy gave who volunteered their time to Carol !-ieager no need to have open disagree­rum would be a debate society their time to make the program work at the various-locations Director ments or protests. Also, so that would meet either daily successful. around campus where the Unil'ersityllealth Ser11ices many students are involved like at the other universities, or We want to thank the stu-immunizations were offered. It .r.,·ept. 25, 1989 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
,, ANI/ NOW, HeR& NOT5URP!<IS!N6l'l, We RJ/?E.stz. A IA/I7H A~fRtM BOON. ASWITH7H8Aff)SCRJSI5,TH8 A80RJ70N UW td8AR& 01-J{£ A64/N POSI770NW 70 
5TU/7'1 GffJUP IS CAPITAUl& (IV A 7/?A6e171!7VMMY HACK&Tr! 
"-~~­
50TH8 
AFRAID
Ol/TWOK 
50.
IS BRJGHTl 
\
I 

'Security is the priceless product of freedom.' 
B. E. Hutchinson 
(1852-1933) 
---~---------------­
Viewpoint
Thursday, September 28, 1989 page 9 
LETTERS 
'Last Temptation' hits Snite, stirs controversy 
Film critics show insecurity 
Dear Editor: which I had arrived before I 
Picture this scenario: copies had ever heard of the book or of such literary masterpieces as movie. Thus, we should ques­Chaucer's "Canterbury Tales" tion the probability of this in­and Machiavelli's "The Prince" terpretation's veracity, not are burned in public after the condemn it outright as incor­Church condemned them. That rect. mindset ended five hundred To paraphrase Plato, "The years ago, right? Wrong! The unquestioned faith is not worth same anti-intellectual train of believing." Clearly, it is the re­thought is alive and well today, sponsibility of every rational as has been shown by the reac­human being to question what tion to the movie "The Last he or she believes in. To do Temptation of Christ." otherwise is to ignore what 
It appears that opponents of separates men from herds of the movie concentrate their sheep. In slandering "The Last criticism in their claim that the Temptation of Christ" and urg­movie is full of slanderous lies ing people not to see it, the about Jesus. Thus, they think it critics of the movie have shown should not be shown anywhere, their fear and insecurity con­let alone our campus! However, cerning their own faith. But of this movie is only the interpre­far greater importance, they tation of one individual who have perpetuated an anti-intel­chose to portray Jesus as more lectual mindset which has even human than previous interpre­more far reaching implications tations. Clearly, the stories in than the challenge to one's be­the Gospels leave many ques­liefs. tions unanswered concerning Jesus' personality. Daniel Fahey 
This movie offers an alterna­Off-campus tive interpretation, one to Sept. 25, 1989 
'Public Promotion of blasphemy' must not be tolerated 
Dear h'ditor: spond strongly to disparage­I have read the script of "The be justified, unfortunately, in dignified protest, including 
By any coherent criteria, "The ment of his beliefs only at the Last Temptation of Christ". Its concluding that we are in the prayer in reparation, outside Last Temptation of Christ" is a price of being regarded as an intellectual content can be de­presence of anatomical mar­the Snite Museum before and blasphemous film, as demon­extremist and forfeiting scribed most favorably as vels, a communications de­during the showings.
strated by the quotations from "respectability." For the cul­moronic. Its public exhibition partment without brains and 
the script which were included tural Christian, this can be an can be justified neither on aca­an administration without guts. in Professor Edward J. effective deterrent. demic nor any other grounds. It It would be appropriate for Charles E. Rice Murphy's column in The Ob­On the other hand, if we are should be cancelled by the de­those who object to this public Professor of Law server (Sept. 25). The public more than cultural Christians, partment or the administration. promotion of blasphemy on this Notre Dame Law School 
showing of this film on we will respond, peacefully and If it is not cancelled, one could campus to join in peaceful and Sept. 21, 1989 September 29 and 30 is not for fairly but forthrightly, to the examination by a class in the calculated insult offered by this 
Viewers must form their own opinions
context of a course. It there­film to the divine person, fore cannot be justified as an Christ, who is God and our He­Dear Editor: that he doesn't like the movie, It seems ironic to me that the exercise of academic freedom. deemer. If we really believe that Despite Edward Murphy's and that is his prerogative. only outside quote used in his Hather. it is more in the nature Christ is who He claims to be, opinions in his column (The Ob­However, those of us who are article is from one of history's of a challenge, an open affront we ought to be loyal enough to server, Sept. 25), I salute the open-minded would like to form most infamous figures, to the divine founder of the respond to this insult with on­Department of Communications our own opinions on matters Vladimir Lenin. Lenin, too, Christian religion and to those site witness and prayer in repa­and Theatre as well as the Snite such as these and are shocked thought that people were un­who claim to believe in Him. ration for the blasphemy di­Museum of Art for having the that he would try to keep us able to make decisions on their 
If our Christianity is merely rected at Him. guts to show the film "The Last from doing so. own, so he established a totali­cultural, the public showing of Temptation of Christ." I also tarian government which would this film will be "no big deal." Priests of the Congregation of thank the University for allow­Although he might not think regulate what ideas and opin­An agnostic pluralism will be Holy Cross hold several of the ing them to do so, especially so, the students here are not ions could be heard and ex­the highest value, one casualty top administrative positions at since the movie has been the infants in need of being shel­pressed. When I see the results of which will be our ability to Notre Dame, and they are six topic of intense criticism by re­tered, but mature adults ca­of such censorship in the Soviet respond to calculated insult. of the twelve Fellows of the ligious fanatics such as Profes­pable of discerning fact from Union, I'm relieved that I live in Even in that pluralism, how­University. ff they acquiesce in sor Murphy. fiction and personal interpreta­a country, and attend a univer­ever, some insults against eth­the showing of this film, they tion from truth. We do not need sity, where my choice of movies nic and racial groups will not will confirm their own compar­Correct me if I'm wrong, but Professor Murphy or anyone is not limited by the closed­be tolerated. And properly so. ative passivity. One could it seems to me that Professor else to censor what we read, minded will of a person I've 
But religious beliefs are not ac­hardly imagine their predeces­Murphy is trying to pressure hear, or see. I'm sure that the never met. 
corded similar protection. In sors in Holy Cross sitting still the University into not allowing people of the surrounding various elements of the media, for such a public exhibition of this movie to be shown on community felt the same way Ken Hamer it is open season on Christian blasphemy at the University campus, or at least he would when he protested at their the­Fisher Hall beliefs. The Christian can re-dedicated to the Mother of God. like to if he could. It is obvious aters. Sept. 25, 1989 
Women's Alliance strives to eliminate old stereotypes 
Dear Editor: standing of diversity, then why 
Today I saw a wonderful is it that we, as the women of bumper-sticker: " A mind is like Saint Mary's and Notre Dame a parachute: It only works are so unwilling to open our when it is open." I could not minds to one another and re­help but smile and renect on place stereotypes with fact? such an ideal sentiment. 
The University of Notre We are all educated people, Dame dedicated the 1988-1989 although we apparently fall vic­school year as the "Year of Cul­tim to sporadic bursts of igno­tural Diversity." As a result, rance. Our education has programs and commissions taught us that individuals are were created in an effort to en­created equal, regardless of rich our understanding of other skin color, weight, and financial cultures and backgrounds. The status. Yet, it would seem that purpose of these commissions, our ignorance, which is perpet­programs, and speakers was to uated by unsubstantiated increase awareness and educa­stereotypes, confines our tion, for it is only through edu­minds. ergy defining our differences, serving of any demoralizing hate to see these parachutes, cation that stereotypes are and begin concentrating on the stereotypes. that are our minds, fail to eliminated and replaced with Subsequently, we cannot, and multitude of similarities. As Women's Alliance Commis­open. fact. will not accept the possible This is a challenge to the sioners of LeMans Hall at Saint 
similarities and equalities women of Saint Mary's and Mary's College, we speak for all Megan Welter 
With this assertion in mind, which women in a community Notre Dame to have enough of the women on the Hall Coun­Shannon Blair allow me to present my share. It is about time that the courage to open not only their cil (and many more), when we Women's Alliance quandary: If we are able to de­women of Saint Mary's and minds, but their hearts. We are urge others to get involved! We LeMans Hall clare a year for greater under-Notre Dame stop wasting en-all unique individuals, unde-urge anyone who is exhausted Sept. 27. 1989 


Accent 
Thursday, September 28, 1989
page 10 

BIZARRE LOVE SQUARE 
DAN RUSSELL 
accent writer 
A
fter critically acclaimed debuts in major cities across America, the film sex, lies, and videotape finally made its way to South Bend, opening last Friday at the General Cinema at Univer­sity Park East. 
Written and directed by new­comer Steven Soderbergh, the film tells the story of four peo­ple whose lives become over­whelmed by the sexual mis­deeds surrounding them. It features some of the best writ­ing and acting in any movie this year. 

Frustrated with his wife's lack of sexual enthusiasm, John Milani (Peter Gallagher) begins an affair with her sister, Cynthia (Laura San Giacomo). Ann (Andie Macdowell), his wife, is receiving therapy for her problem. 
Now, enter Graham(James Spader), an old friend of John from high school. Grahamhas spent the past nine years of his life roaming the country to vid­eotape interviews with women about the sexual aspects of their lives. These tapes, as well as daily masturbation, serve as an attempt to elimi­nate his need for female com­panionship because of the pain he continues to endure through the loss of a high school love. 
Ann and Grahambecome close friends and grow to know each other's problems well 
while the physical relationship 
of John and Cynthia continues. 
Conflict occurs when Ann 
discovers her husband's affair 
and responds by having Gra­
ham interview her. Indeed, it 
is during this interview that 
they discover that the solution to their problems can only be reached through the unique love they have for each other. 
Intuition should tell you the rest of the story. 
The use of videotape is em­ployed very originally and effectively throughout the film. In the movie's most powerful moment, John watches the taped interview of his wife. Throughout the scene, the camera alternates between videotaped footage and normal cinematic film, so the audience experiences both the drama be­tween Grahamand Ann and the reactions of John as he watch­es the videotaped scene. 
The film captivates by focus­ing on sex and relationships. Only five sets are used through­out the entire movie. The set­ting is never known. Its focus is not on action or plot or setting, but rather on what these peo­ple have to say to one another. This is a film based on dialogue and the human feelings it por­trays. Creating this type of film is risk for a film maker, but it has resulted in such innovative pieces as The Breakfast Club, The Big Chill, and now, sex, lies, and videotape. 



J 
·' 
Andie MacDowell is one of the stars in newcomer Steve Soderbergh's first feature-length film, 'sex, lies, and videotape.' 
Particularly fine perfor­mances are turned in by James Spader and Andie Macdowell. They create a conflicting and yet beautiful relationship as a man trying to live without sex and a woman trying to live with it. 
sex, lies, and videotape is provocative and honest in its dealings with sex and relation­ships. This is a movie you'll find yourself talking about be­yond the car ride home. It is a movie you should see when you're in the mood for more than entertainment. 
Lines composed a few miles above the real world 

DAN FONTANA  you.) "Briefly, what does it mean to  pies of Marketing, which I took during the summer and got an  
treat a person only as a means  "A" in. (l swear, really, I did.)  
Guest Columnist  and not also as an end?" Well, if you were really smart,  "You produce a product which is small, inexpensive, has  
you could say something about  very little weight, will not per­ 
you how to b.s. your way through just about any ques­tion. In the interest of good journalism, I have chosen to use actual questions from ac­tual Notre Dame quizzes. So sit up straight, and pay attention. My first question is from my freshman year theology class. I think I got a "C" in this one, but who can remember that long ago? "Write your name and favor­ite color on a sheet of paper, and hand it in."  this being against Kant's second formulation of the Categorical Imperative. But this would mean you have read the book, and we all know you don't have time to read the book because you're trying to build a National Championship team here. And the A.P. simply does not vote on which school's student body can recite the most Kant. So, natu­rally, you have to be a little cre­ative in extremely sloppy hand­writing. This, by the way, is a good  ish, and is not necessary to the consumer. Describe the Utili­ties and best Distribution Chan­nel involved in getting your product to the customer." Now, what you have to keep in mind here-I mean NEVEH forget-is that this is a BUSI­NESS class. There are AL­WAYS two ways to answer a question in a business class: 1. Give the correct answer. The profs probably been trying to find out what it is for years now and giving it will really impress  
time to mention to the prof  him.  2. Discuss GOLF and it's  
Now, this is a rather progres­sive kind of unannounced quiz meant to punish the people who didn't bother to come to class.  what a great speaker he is, and that the time he accidentally dropped his wallet on the floor and the picture of his family fell  APPAHEL. If you want an "A," use method number two. Something like, "I wanted to read the book, but I had to fit in  
Therefore, this is obviously the hardest kind of quiz because you actually have to randomly BE IN CLASS to pass it. So, here's my advice: GO TO CLASS, STUPID!!! Come on, any prof who would give a quiz this dumb must have the intel­ out, you happened to notice what a beautiful family he has and that he should be very proud and that you hope he is able to find enough time to spend with them because, after all, they're only young once. After this, he's really beginning  36 before the pro-shop closed. Have you seen the new Titleist Collection for Fall '89? They've really done some bold new things with Neon Currency Green!" And for Extra Credit, you can always throw in the bit about how disappointed you are  
lect of crawfish. Imagine all the sleep you can catch up on in this class. You'll never get any sleep if you stay back in the dorm anyway, not with all that's happening on Days of Our Lives.  to feel guilty and will forget grading the tests to play Teen­age Mutant Ninja Turtles with the little ones. You are now free to fill in the remaining space with just about anything you want. Have some fun.  that the vest has fallen by the Business-Fashion Wayside. So that's it. Pretty easy, huh? I bet you feel pretty silly having spent all that time studying over the course of your college life. Enjoy the extra time. But  
My second question comes from Phil 286, Busine!>S and Ethics. I took it last year and got a "B." (I was screwed, I tell  You've earned it. My third and last question comes from MAHK 231, Princi­ before I go, I have a question for all of you business majors. I turned 21 over the weekend and am wondering if I can get a  

I
s this a joke? I was at a party the other night. I mean, this IS still the beginning of the year, sort of. Everyone's still excited to re­new old friendships, to see peo­ple we haven't seen since, well, last night's party, and to have stimulating intellectual conver­sations, like this one I hap­pened to overhear: 
Girl: Hey, how ya doing? 
Boy: Not much. 
Girl: That's great! 
Boy: So, how are your 

classes? Girl: I don't have them any­more. I bought contacts. 
And so on. I thought this was the way it was supposed to be, didn't you? So you can ima­gine what a shock it was for me when my professors, whose function I thought was sup­posed to mirror bed-time story tellers, revealed to me that they actually expect me to produce a measurable quantity of WORK. Not only that, but they expect me to complete it within the boundaries of a specific time­frame, THEIR time-frame. 
Naturally, I thought they were kidding. But I have been hear­ing that professors are begin­ning to collect homework and that some are even resorting to the QUIZ, Questions Under the Influence of Zoonoses (look it up). So, as a service to the readers, I have decided to teach 

.... Thursday, September 28, 1989 The Observer :page 11 
The Observer accepts class1f1eds every bus1ness day from 10 a.m. to 3:30pm at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from t 2:30 to 3 p.m at the Saint Mary·s office. Haggar College Center Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All class1heds must be
Classifieds prepa1d. The charge IS 2 cents per character per day, mcluding spaces 
\ NOTICES 
PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard 3 blks. from NO campus 233-2342 $$$ FOR YOUR BOOKS WE BUY AND SELL USED TEXTBOOKS !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
TYPING JACKIE BOGGS 684-8793 
LEGAL SECRETARY WILL DO TYPING/WORD PROCESSING. PICK UP & DELIVERY AVAILABLE. CALL 255-1726. 
Have you figured out.. 
...how you're going to do it? 
Huh? Have you? Any ideas? 
RUMMAGE SALE !! 
SATURDAY SEPT 30: 9am-3pm 
FIRST UNITARIAN CHURCH 101 E. NORTHSHORE DRIVE (INTERSECTION OF MICHIGAN) something for everyone ... 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
287-4082. 
This Friday Anti-Apartheid 
Network vigil at 12:15 p.m. 
Every Friday Anti-Apartheid 
Network vigils at 12:15 p.m. 
Admim. building 
Private Math Tuition Call271-9971 after 6 PM 
National White Male Engineer 
Society Meeting! Tonight' 
PITISBURGH RESIDENTS: DO 
YOU MISS SEEING HILLS OR 
YOUR MOTHER OR FRIENDS? 
I'M GOING THERE THIS 
WEEKEND. LEAVE 9/29 RETURN 
10/1 CALL 287-4546 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: GOLD CLADDAGH RING 
OUTSIDE O'SHAG. DIAMOND 
STONE 
REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE 
CALL X2670 OR 277-9281 IF 
FOUND. 
LOST: MINOL TA FREEDOM 
ZOOM 90 CAMARA LAST SEEN 
IN MAIN CIRCLE. NOT INSURED, 
NOT PAID FOR, VERY. VERY 
VALUABLEI!! CALL PETE AT 
#1863 ANYTIME! $100.00 
REWARD. 
FOUND: Casio calculator on 9/26 5pm at C1 parking lot. Call Tony@ 272-4223 
LOST: 2 KEYS IN OR AROUND 
FARLEY OR NORTH DINING 
HALL PLEASE CALL JENNIFER 
X4253. IF YOU FOUND THEM. 
THANKS! 
R U honest. or ? lost pr. black 
Vuarnets at Lafortune's auto bank 
teller, 9/11. Please call X4043 or 
leave w/ Carroll Hall rector. 
HELP!!! Levi's Jean Jacket with all 
my ID lost Sat. night. Probably in 
Alumni somewhere. x4777. 
LOST: GOLD ROPE BRACELET EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE CALL LISA AT X4916 
LOST: SILVER PIN IN MOON 
SHAPE-SENT VALUE. REWARD. 
please call 2770 or send to 311 
Walsh. 
WANTED 
Need a babysitter in my home for two children 6 and 3 years old (noon-5:30 daily M-F). References required, please call 255-3869 after 5:30. 
HELP!!! I NEED 1-2 USC GA'S FOR A CA LAWYER!! CALL x2529 NEW YORK NEW YORK NEW YORK If u r headed to Albany, 
NYC, or anywhere betw. the 2, I 
need a ride home for Oct. Break. 
Will share expenses and driving. 
Can leave and return 
whenever ... please call x3442. 
Ride Needed: 
U. of Illinois on Sept. 29 Call Lynn @3848 
RIDE NEEDED from Bridgeport -Harttord Ct area to ND Friday Oct 27 after break. Call Chris at 4220. 
I desperately need 1 Northwest 
voucher to go home for Break, 
please call Lisa at X2822. 
ATIENTION-HIRING! Government jobs -your area. $17,840-$69,485. Call 1-602-838­8885. EXT A 6262. 
ATIENTION: EARN MONEY 
READING BOOKS! $32,000/year 
income potential. Details. (1) 602­
838-8885 Ext. Bk 6262. 
BABYSITIING NEEDED FOR 2 
BOYS 1 &3, OCCASSIONALYON 
WEEK DAY NIGHTS. CALL 287­
3694 
Looking to buy any of the "BO KNOWS ."shirts. call Laure at 4801 
HELP! Need ride back to ND from 
Purdue on Sunday! Call Gena at 
49511 
Help!! Need ride to Columbus, OH. Oct. 6-8. Will share expenses. Please call Laney x4830 
WANTED: USC vs. NDllCKETS 24hr. answering service (213) 487-4161 1-'ome (213)422-2812 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 
2 BDRM HOME 2 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS.272-6306 
FOR SALE 
COLOR TV RENTALS 
19-INCH, $70/SEM, $120/YR; 
25-INCH, $90/SEM, $160/YR 
FREE DELIVERY 
COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272­
5959 
'89 ND GRAD SELLING '82 OLDS WAGON. GOOD CONDITION, RUNS WELL NO PROBLEMS STARTING OR MAINTAINING. $1200 (NEG.) GREAT FOR SCHOOL, BETIER FOR GETIING TO & FROM. CALL CHRIS AT (312) 935-8368 AFTER ?PM. 
Plane Ticket: SB to Newark for 
Fall Break--Super cheap!!! 
Call J. at 1870 
ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT 
HOMES from $1 (U-repair). 
Delinquent tax property. 
Repossessions. Call 1-602-838­
8885 Ext. GH 6262. 
ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT 
SEIZED VEHICLES FROM $100. 
FORDS, MERCEDES, 
CORVETIES, CHEVYS. 
SURPLUS BUYERS GUIDE 1­
602-838-8885 EXT. A 6262. 
Great Bahamian vacation!!!!!!! call x1839 for details 
SONY 100W/ch AN 
Rcvr,SurrSnd+2-1 DOW 
spkrs.Asking $400 call Mark>271­
0672 
Selling a 1 987 honda elite 150cc 
scooter. Automatic, no shifting 
required, 2400 miles. Asking 
$1200 (retail value is $1435). Call 
277-5647 after 6 pm. 
SCHWINN BIKE & TV.272-6306 
TICKETS 

Travel Tour Operator needs tickets for all N.D. games-home and away, especially MSU, USC and Miami. Premium price paid. Immediate case available. Will trade for all major sporting events including Final 4, Indy 500 and bowl game, etc. Will also buy season tickets. Please call Dave at 1-800-828-8955 today. 
Help, the whole family is coming for USC, so we need lots of tickets. Willing to pay big bucks. Call John or Erich at x1622 . 
Desperate! Will give my first born or any $ for 2 USC .GAs Chris B #1484 
H.......E.....L..... P NEED 2-4 GA'S (TOGETHER) FOR ANY GAME WILL PAY BIG MOOLAH ($$).PLEASE CALL JEFF 277-3998. 
HELP, THE WHOLE FAMILY IS COMING FOR USC, SO WE NEED LOTS OF TICKETS. WILLING TO PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL JOHN OR ERIK AT 1622 
I NEED 6 PITI TICKETS CALL 277-9281 OR X2760. WILL PAY$$$$$$$$$ 
Need two SMU tix please call 284­4930!!!!!!!!!! 
NEED SEVERAL PITI GA'S PLEASE!! #2819 
I NEED HELP. 3 GA and 2 Student tickets needed for the USC game. Call John at 2005 if you can help. 
NEED TICKETS FOR ALL N.D. GAMES. 272-9772 AFTER-P.M. 
TICKETS WANTED: 4 SO CAL (318) 942-9771, (W); (318) 942­7164, (H). CALL COLLECT 
Need many MIAMI tix. $ $ $ $ Barry 289-8417. 

WANT TO TRADE (2) PURDUE OR (2) AF FOR PENN STATE, USC OR PITI TICKETS. 717-339­3901. 
NEED 4 NAVY GAs X3500-WATIS 
NEED FOUR GA's TO NAVYI!!!! PLEASE CALL KARIN x1321 !!! 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 2 SMU TICKETS-GA'S PLEASE CALL 277-9281 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I need USC GA's. Will beat best offer. Ann x2830 
NEED GA TIX FOR ANY HOME GAMES. CALL MATI 272-3491. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Alumni need USC tix. Will pay big lawyer bucks !! Call Sam at (201) 334-3804 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Need SMU and NAVY GA's: Call Jim at 287-9854 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S and 1 SMUGA CALL KRISTEN AT X2735 
have two GA's for SMU and PITI need 3 USC --ANNE 2670 
NEED 2 SMU GA'S BADLY! Call Krista X1618 
I need many tickets for the Navy game. Please call Colin at x1930. 
I'll buy any tickets for any home 
game, or Miami. call JEFF at 239-3714, leave a message. Thanks. 
PURDUE tickets needed. call Will4048 

SO. CAL-NEED 6 TIC'S HAVE 2 PITI. NAVY, SO. METH WILL TRADE CALL 215-642-2765 PURDUE tix,pair, FOR SALE Dave (201) 729-9172, Evenings, Eastern Time 
I need 4 Navy tickets-2std. &2G.A. Please call Sean H. at X4327. 
NEED 2 PITI GA'S CALL KEVIN X1247 
NEED 4 PITI GA'S 
CALL TONY AT 234-1 048 
SELLING 4 PURDUE GA'S. CALL JIM AT 277-9198 
BIG MONEY FOR USC TICKETS I NEED 10. STUDENTorGA Call FRANK 287-5320 
WANTED: USC vs. NDllCKETS 24hr. answenng service (213) 487-4161 Home (2131422-2812 
NEED 6 USC GA'S! 
PLEASE CALL x4933 
T. needs ONE USC Ticket--bad. Call him before he kills himself over it at 1870. 
I NEED, yes I need GA's for the 
USC game. Please sell me yours. 
Amy #2640. $$$ 
WILL TRADE 
2 NAVY GAs or 2 SMU GAs 
for2 PITIGAs 
Call 277-0526 Evenings 
I NEED LOTS OF USC STUD 
TIX!!! 
Call Hales at 3640 
NeeD ride to Purdue. 
Lv. Fri., ret. Sat. 
Sean '2298 
NEED GAS FOR PITI, 
NAVY & SMU $$$$ 
CALL TOM & MARTY 
X 3185 
WANTED: 2 STD & 4 GA FOR 
USC GAME WILL TOP ANY 
OFFER BIG BUCKS$$$ 
CALL BRIAN '1026 ANYTIME 
NO PRICE TOO HIGH !!!!!!!! 
NEED 3 USC TIX GAORSTUD $$ CALL: 4272 
HAVE 1 USC STUD 
NEED2 SMU GA 
TRADE OR BUY Call Joe 2647 
WILL TRADE 1 USC STUD. TIX 
FOR 1 PITI STUD TIX. CALL 
MIKE AT 277-5706 
PITI TIX for sale x1295 or x1294 
2 USC GA'S NEEDED. WILL PAY BIG $$.callS. MARK 277-6087 
Help! We need 2 GAs and 2 Stud. tix for NAVY!! Call x1278 
Need USC studs. Have$ or a Pitt 
stud to trade. 
call x2107 
PITI or USC GAs needed desparately. Please call Mike at #2288. 
NEED SEVERAL PITI TIX 
PLEASE!! #2819 
Save dad's job! Boss and family need 2-4 USC GA or stdnt tix. PLEASE call Pete at X1699-l'd like to stay at ND.$$ 
I NEED 2 PITI GA'S (FOR MY 
PARENTS)!!! CALL CARYN 4830. 
ELVIS IS DEAD and so am I if I 
can't find 3 GA tickets to the Pitt 
game. 317-743-7208. 
Help! Need 3 GA tickets to Pitt 
game. 317-743-7208. 
Need TIXX to any home football 
game. Big $$$. Call John X1583 
R.E.M. TICKETS Four 13th row, center tickets Best offer. Call 3590 or 3897 

NEED 2 USC GAS AND 7 NAVY 
GAS!!!!!! CALL JULIE X3141 !!!!!!! 
TOP$ 
ALL HOME GA'S 
312-920-9350 

NEED GA TICKETS TO ANY 
HOME GAME-CALL 283-4618 
I NEED PURDUE & ALL HOME 
GAME TIX 272-6306 
I NEED 2 PITI GA's FOR MY PARENTS CALL SUE x2485 

HELP HELP HELP I NEED 2 USC GA'S !!!!! I HAVE CASH!!! PLEASE CALL ALLISON AT 2128 !!!!!! 
Yo! Yo! Me and King Midas need 
GA'sto: 

U.S.C., PITI. NAVY,PSU 
caiiSPANKY x4274 
I NEED PURDUE TIX MIKE #4047 
NEED PITI GA'S PLEASE!! 
BETH 3706 

I have one extra So Cal ticket, will 
trade for one Pitt ticket. Call 
evening or leave message: (312) 
784-8182 

NEED up to 6 USC GAs. $ no 
problem. Jim x1236 

SELLING 4 PURDUE tix for FACE 
John #1665 

I NEED FOOTBALL TIX 
WILLING TO PAY BIG BUCKS 
FOR ANY GAME PAT 
X4289 

I need two GA tix for Pitt or Navy. Call Bill X2008. 
NAVY thugs beat up my dog. Let 
my parents see the Irish stomp them. Need 2 GAs x1160 
I NEED'EM! 2USCGA'S call Paula x4633 

$$$$$$$$$$NEED$$$$$$$$$$ 
SMU and MIAMI GA'S TRADE FOR BLANK CHECK!!!!!! CALL JEFF AT 283-1504. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
LOVIN' OR MONEY-That's 
what I'll give to get my family tix for USC!!! I need 3 GA's. CALL CRAZY JEN@ 2272! 
WILL TRADE 2 PITI GA's FOR 2 
USC GA's 2773097 

Will trade two PITI GA's for 2 USC GA's; call Paul x3367 
Need one USC student ticket; 
call Julie x4914 

WILLING TO TRADE A PURDUE TICKET OR AN REM TICKET FOR USC STUD OR GA. CALL GINA X4853. 
Call x4930 and repeat after me,"l'd love to sell you 2 USC GA's,Kathleen.'' 
ANY PITI GAs? Please call Mary at x4822! Very negotiable on price. 
ONE PITI AND ONE USC 
STUDENT TIX FOR SALE 
BEST OFFER BY THE 29TH 
CALL x3817 

$$NEED USC GA & STUD TIX$$$ $$$ Please call Cheri x2605 $$$ 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I NEED 2 USC GA'S 
PLEASE CALL 
BETH X2722 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 

Have 2 USC Std Tckts and $$to 
trade for 4 NAVY GA's. Call 277­
9869. 

WANTED: 3 TICKETS ND V. USC. 
GRAD OR G; CALL COLLECT, 
606-273-3164, 8PM-10PM. 
2 PURDUE TIX FOR SALE 
X4853 
NAVYNAVYNAVYNAVYNAVY I need 5 G.A.'s or anything you have together NAME YOUR PRICE!!!! 
Call Kyle-#3775 
LET'S MAKE A DEAL! Need 2 USC GA's. Will buy or deal with 2 SMU GA's. Call Diane X3477. 
I need GAs to USC and PITI Call Dan at 271-9821 
SNATBALL! $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ PITI. G.A.'S NEEDED CALL MARK OR CHRIS AT 271-8860 
%%%o/~ko/~k%%%o/~k%o/~k%% 
FOR SALE 2 R.E.M. TICKETS 2ND ROW CENTER!!!! BEST OFFER , HURRY! 284-5020 
PERSONALS 
ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OFPRAYERANDJOYOUS COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE: POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY RD. 300 W, KOKOMO, IN 46901. 
Hi T.Bass!!! 
Hi Jeff CP, 
Ag 
MIAMI FLIGHTS ' MIAMI FLIGHTS 
Round-trip airfares to Miami or Fort Lauderdale. Depart Nov. 22 from Midway (Chicago); return Nov. 27 to Midway (Chi.). $239 for students, $265 for others. Tix sold on first-come, first-serve basis, and are non-refundable. Anthony Travel 1-800-7DOMERS 
Need Ride to Madison, WI. or LaCrosse, WI. for weekend of 9/29-10/1. Can leave Thursday or Friday, anytime. Call Bill, 271-8483. 
Need Ride to Madison, WI. or LaCrosse, WI. for weekend of 9/29-10/1. Can leave Thursday or Friday, anytime. Call Bill, 271-8483. 
If you're gay, lesbian, or bisexual, you are not alone. For someone to talk to, contact us. Gays & Lesbians at Notre Dame/ 
St. Mary's College P.O. Box 194 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Wish Maureen a Happy 22nd at 284-5334. 
Happy 22nd MAZIE I Love You MUGHO!! Gena 
HAPPY B-DAY LYNN ITS GREAT TO HAVE YOU HERE AT ND TO CELEBRATE IT WITH I HOPE YOU HAVE A GOOD DAY AND A GREAT YEAR LOVE MURPH, KEVIN,VER & CHEZ 
Spend a day in CHICAGO. Ride the WINDY CITY SHUTILE. $10 round-trip bus fare. Tickets available at Information Desk, 1st Floor Lafortune. 
VALUE CHECK COUPON BOOKS are available at the Information Desk, 1st Floor Lafortune. 
To the lovely, Dark-haired woman in the dark blue sweater, tight jeans, low heels, and shades, who was sitting out between Lafortune and Stonehenge on Tuesday at around 1 :15: 
From across the lonely empty spaces, a cherished view: A remnant, a vision remembers the soft Summer dew And spirited flowery cool breezy feelings for you Please accept my humble rose of crystaline clear: I wish your feelings perchance to be for me as sincere All my love for a kind and gentle yes to me my dear. 
The Lonely Cavalier 
~--­

page 12 The Observer Thursday, September 28, 1989 
SPORTS BRIEFS
Cub fans are celebrating 
Chuck Vogel of Keenan won the Interhall cross country run Wednesday afternoon with a time of 12:53. Stanford Dave Bergman fin­ished second in 13:24 and Tony Stornetta took third in 13:29. Grace won the team competition with 159 points followed by Carroll with 138 and Morrissey with 134.. The next run will be next Wednesday. 
Cycling Club will hold regular rides at 4:15 
p.m. Tuesdays and Thursdays. 
ND-SMC synchronized swim club will practice Mondays and Wednesdays from 4:30 to 6:30 p.m. at Hockne Pool.. Everyone is wel­come. 
Associated Press  
CHICAGO  (AP)  - 
Cheering  fans  of  the  
Chicago  Cubs,  the  

Midwest's lovable losers who have gone the longest of any team without reach­ing the World Series, crowded a downtown plaza Wednesday to urge the team to victory in the play­offs. 
"When the Cubs started .. . there were nay-sayers and doubters and nattering nabobs of negativism," television sports personal­ity Bruce Wolf shouted to the crowd. "But the true Cubs fans said, 'We can do it!"' 
The Cubs clinched the National League East divi­sion with a 3-2 victory over the Montreal Expos Tuesday night. They re­mained in Canada to finish the series, but they were in the hearts of the 5,000 cheering fans at home. 

Ski Club will hold an organizational meet­ing at 8 p.m. Tuesday, Oct. 3, in Hoom 188 Nieuwland to discuss team tryouts and the Christmas trip to Jacksopn Hole, Wyom. Call 2962 or 3662 for more information. 
Mike Brennan University of Notre Dame's outside tackle was selected to receive the Toyota Leadership Award at Saturday's game between the Fighting Irish and Michigan State. The first-year graduate stu­dent is working towards his MBA. degree. 
Sports Briefs arc accepted in writing at the Observer office from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
The ObstJrver .H cepl' t.l;~•.sil•ulJ' <!very busrness d~y from I 0 a rn 10 3 30 p m at tile Notre Dame ottrc" :l 14 L.1r orl''"e dnd from 12 30 to 3 p m at I he Sa1111 Marys office Haggar College c.,,,.,, o.....dhne tor next day class•lreds is 3 p m All classrtreds must bf! 
prepard fhe ch,nq,.. '~: ("f'rrls l.lf!r ct•aracter per day. mctudrng spaces
Classifieds 
ND/SMC RIGHT TO LIFE 
Professor Charles Rice of the Law School speaks on The Missouri Case. 
Tonight. 7:00 Montgomery Theater, LaFortune 
JUNIORS Come to Brunos on Eddy St. tonight from 7-9. All you can eat for $4. Buses leave Main Circle at 7pm. 
NO FINANCE CLUB FALL BREAK TRIP TO BOSTON FINANCIAL DISTRICT. TRANSPO AND ROOM INCLUDED CALL BRIAN X1 010 OR 4732 FOR DETAILS 
She was Choppin' Broc-o·llil!!!ll! 
Happy Birthday to Bryce and his little brother!! We hope everyone joins us in wishing our favorite twins a happy birthday. 
-the guys from 5c 
Roni, 
Go cross that line on your 
birthday -we know you will 
anyway! 
Happy 19thl 
Love. 
The Quad 
HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY, JOELLE! You're a one in a million friend. Hope your b-day is awesomeI Love, Marge 
Happy Birthday to my favorite trumpet player!!I I'll always be older than you though II I 
Love, 
Your C.B. 
Needed:Ride to Chicago(No. suburbs) 9-29 to 10-1. Will help pay for gas. PLEASE call Mike x4663. 
St. Edward's Hall Players 
Informational meeting for all 
interested in helping with the production of Noises Off. Thursday, 7 pm, 321 St. Ed's ADOPTION: Loving, professional couple in Midwest wishes to adopt newborn. We offer stable and happy home, financial security, welcoming extended family. PLEASE call collect 513-751·6711 after 6:30 pm weekdays, anytime weekends.Attorney involved. 

Attention N.D. Students! 
$4.50 Haircuts 
VITO'S BARBERSHOP 
1523 Lincolnway West 233-4767 
NANCY I CANT WAIT TO BE WITH YOU TOMORROW. 
IMISSYOUI TOM 

FRESHMEN TRIP TO THE DUNES IS SUNDAY, OCTOBER 1 st!!l! Buses leave Main Circle at 
11 :00. Lunch/ dinner provided. Tickets are $3. 00 but will go quick-pick them up at the Freshmen Yr. of Studies starting Wed, Sept. 27. Take a day off and meet some people in your class !I 
Kim K·Nice spinning! Now we know why you're the treasurer-the 91 CHEGS 
IRISH MUSIC wrth John Kennedy and Friends Saturday Night at Club 23 
Don't miss THE FALL EVENT Multicultural Fall Festival 
Get cultured in South Bend! Multicultural Fall Festival 
Oct 1. 7 
MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL OCT1-7 
Lewis Hall sucks! 
Troy and Dave 
or Dave and Troy They will all be at CLUB23 Thurs. at 10:00 CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable atmosphere. daily & weekly specials, pool table. English darts, and great company. 234-3541 

MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL OCT 1-7 
FALL BREAK TRIP STILL A ? FINANCE CLUB IS GOING TO BOSTON. VISITING FIRMS EXCITING TRIP CALL BRIAN X1010 OR 4732 FOR DETAILS 
WHEN WAS THE LAST TIME YOU WENT TO THE ZOO? SENIOR CLASS IS GOING TO POTAWATOMI ZOO 
THIS FRIDAY ONLY $2.00 
SUB!!SUB! !SUB!ISUB I!SUB!! 
SUB needs Dorm Reps!!! Dorm Reps!!! Dorm Reps!!! 
Perks included-Come sign up Second Floor LaFortune­Receptionist's Desk by Fri.!! 
SUB!!SUB!!SUB!!SUB!!SUBI! 
FARLEY HALL!!!! 

Get psyched for a Night on the 
Street! Saturday!! 

SENIOR RAP UP GROUPS 
SIGN UPS UNTIL OCT.9 AT CSC 
ADOPTION. Loving couple dreaming of adopting white infant. LET'S HELP EACH OTHER! Legal/confidential. Expenses patd Call Lillian and Ed collect, ANYTIME (212) 645-4344 
No plans for OCT. BREAK? I? I How 
about FLORIDA?? 3 FUN, FREE­
SPIRITED GIRLS need driver (21 
wt credit card) and riders (any age) 
. We rented a nice, spacious 
AEROSTAR mini-van and we're headed for Ocala. FLA. (near DAY­TONA, DISNEY, & TAMPA I). We'll take you and your buddies there for just $65 ROUNDTRIPI Gee, WHAT A DEAL!! Leaving 10/20, returning 10127.. CALL TODAY!!! x3774 or x3745 or x3769 

Freshman Trip to the Dunes 
Date: Sunday, October 1 
Time: Buses leave main circle 11 :OOam Return 6:30pm 
Tickets: $3.00 Can be picked up at the Freshman Year of Studies 
Lunch and dinner provided Frisbee, volleyball, and more 

Which college essential in this picture fits in your backpack? 

98z}JOdSJadns ,sw;~)SAS lllllQ Ql!U;JZ gU!POJ:lll! ;JAOqe ;JlpjO IIV :.JaMSUV
Tbe Zenith SupersPort 286 battery-powered portable. 
The sPort that goes everywhere you and your backpack go. And with all lhe power of a desktop. 
As PC MAGAZINE, Oct '88 states: "The Superu>ort 286 is an incredible machine." Or as in INFQWQRLD, Oct '88 says: "It embodies a combination of speed, weight, size, and battery life that we've seen in no other laptop computer." 
See for yourself where the SupersPon 286 can take you. Several portable models are available ranging in speed, hard drive capacity and price. Students, Faculty and Staff receive large discounts. Students, aslc about our new loan program! 

= I I r 0 t} 
For more infonnation on Zenith's full line of ! com pulers. from laptops to desktops contact 
~ 
~~:: ~t~~v~~~~~~~~~;:g .~·;-,\.(_..[.:,;
Math/Computer Building • 
,,!k
23g-7477 ~

• 

~*''*I data
systems 

The world's #l selling PC compatibles. Get the best for less. 
Thursday, September 28, 1989 The Observer 
page 13 

SMC soccer downs Hope, gets upset by St. Joseph's 
By COLLEEN KRENZER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's soccer saw it's undefeated streak come to an end last week. as the Belles posted a 1-2 record for the week. 
The Belles headed to St. Joseph College last Monday, expecting a win. Instead of a victory, the Belles found themselves bringing home a 4­0 upset. 
The team squeaked out a 1­0 victory at home against llope College on Wednesday. .Junior Trish Troester came through with the lone goal for Saint Mary's in a game that was much closer than the Belles thought it would be. 
Saturday's game against the University of Wisconsin­Milwaukee was another close match, only this time the Belles failed to come up with the victory. Saint Mary's de­fense held UWM to only one goal. but it was one goal too many, as the Belles offense was unable to produce, allow­ing UMW to come away with the 1-0 victory. 
The Belles are looking to re­bound this weekend with two big games at home. Marquette University comes to town on Saturday, hoping to avenge last year's 3-1 loss to Saint Mary's, Marquette's only loss of the season. 
University of Michigan, although only a club team, de­feated Notre Dame 3-0 earlier in the season and should be a formidable opponent, on Sunday at one o'clock. 

SObering Advice} , 
cansavea~~~:cr 1 
Think Before You Drink --~~ Before You Drive ~~--·· 
Baseball 
continued from page 16 
Orioles 4, Brewers 0 Baltimore stayed one game behind Toronto as Mickey Tettleton hit a three-run homer and rookie Bob Milacki, 14-12, allowed five hits in 6 1-3 in­nings for his fifth consecutive victory. Tettleton, in a 1-for-17 slump, hit his 26th home run in the fifth off Jerry Reuss, 9-9. Cal Ripken added an RBI single in the ninth. 
Phillies 5, Mets 3 
Just a few minutes after Keith Hernandez and Gary Carter said their goodbyes to the fans at Shea Stadium, Roger McDowell and Gregg Jefferies had something far less pleasant to say to each other. 
In an emotional, brawl­marred home finale, the Mets lost to the Philadelphia Phillies 5-3 Wednesday night as McDowell and Jefferies fought in the ninth inning. 
McDowell, who was traded by the Mets in June, relieved Jeff Parrett to face Jefferies with two outs in the ninth and got Jefferies to ground out to sec­ond to end the game. 
As the out was being made, McDowell said something to Jefferies and the rookie charged the reliever and wres­tled him to the ground. Players from both benches then ran out on the field and some punches were thrown before order was restored. 
Cubs 7, Expos 2 

Chicago, fresh off clinching the NL East title, kept its mo­mentum going by beating Montreal despite hitting into a triple play for the second time this season. 
Mike Bielecki, 18-7, pitched five innings and allowed five hits for the victory. Jeff Pico finished for his second second save, yielding five hits. 
The Expos turned the sixth triple play in club history in the second inning when Domingo Ramos lined out to shortstop with runners at first and sec­ond. 
The Cubs won their second NL East title on Tuesday night when they beat the Expos 4-3 in 10 innings. 
Rookie Greg Smith and McClendon each drove in two runs for the Cubs. 
Pirates 1, Cardinals 0 
Doug Drabek pitched a four­hitter and Pittsburgh beat St. Louis for its 13th victory in 18 

ATTENTION ND & ST. MARY'SSTUDENTS ESTABLISH CREDIT EARLY 
AND SAVE 10% ON YOUR FIRST PURCHASE 
Come into the University Park Store on Saturday, September 30 between 3:00 and 7:00p.m. or on Sunday, October 1 between noon and 6:00 p.m. to open your personal Ayres charge account. Our credit representatives will be located in the Men's Varsity Department near the mall entrance. 


NO ANNUAL FEE! 
.................................................... 
games against the Cardinals 
this season. 
The Cardinals, who have lost 
their last six games against 
Pittsburgh, were eliminated 
from the National League East 
race on Tuesday. 
Twins 6, White Sox 1 
Mike Dyer, 4-7, pitched a four-hitter for the first com­plete game of his career, breaking his four-game losing streak. Dan Gladden had three hits, including a homer, and drove in three runs. 
Shawn Hillegas, 7-11, gave up four runs and four hits in four­plus innings. 
Indians 4, Mariners 1 
Paul Zuellava drove in three runs and John Farrell, 9-14, scattered nine hits in his first victory since Aug. 31. Randy Johnson, 7-9, struck out 11 and allowed five hits in 7 1-3 in­nings. 
Braves 5, Astros 4 
Pinch-hitter Oddibe McDowell hit a home run leading off the ninth inning to lift Atlanta over Houston. McDowell hit the first pitch from reliever Jim Clancy, 7-14, over the right-field fence. 
Mark Eichhorn, 5-5, pitched two innings for the victory and Mike Stanton worked the ninth for his seventh save. 
Lambert 
continued from page 16 
Turner led a balanced Irish attack with 18 kills, and Fiebelkorn followed with 13. Senior Kathy Cunningham con­tinued her consistent play with 12 kills and a .391 hitting per­centage. As a squad, Notre Dame had a .223 hitting per­centage, compared to .135 for Purdue. 
This type of effort might let Lambert find the fountain of youth, even if he just gained one more year to his life. 
WANTED: USC vs. NO TICKETS 24hr. answering service .(213) 487-4161 Home (213)422-2812 

If:p.~'re ~·""€ todrinkanJ dri-.e at least let the re-1 of us knCM: 
Reader's Oige 
Shannon $215 Paris 225 Frankfurt 225 Madrid 235 Amsterdam 225 
Scheduled carriers! Book anytime! Above fare 1/2 round-trip from Chicago. Some restrictions apply.Call lor more info. & FREE Student Travel Catalog. 





~-"_j
Chicago. IL 60611 
312·951·0585 






-----~---­
~pa~g~e~14~--------------------------------------------~T~h~e~O~bs~e~~~e~r------------------------------~T~h~u~rs~d~ay,September28, 1989 
~· 

Spartans eyeing the Hurricanes 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Associate Sports Editor 
After last weekend's 21-13 loss to top-ranked Notrn Dame, Michigan State defensive back Ilarlon Barnett gave a little pep talk to his teammates. 
"I just told them, 'Forget about this game. We're going to win the rest of them,' " Barnett said. 
Bring on second-ranked Miami. 
The Spartans will try to bring Hurricane season to an early finish Saturday at Spartan Stadium. Under the Erickson gang, coach Dennis and quar­terback Craig, Miami has opem~d the year with a 51-3 win over Wisconsin, a 31-3 victory over Cal and a 38-7 triumph over Missouri. 
"They're as well-rounded a team as you'd want," said Michigan State coach George Perles. "Their passing game and running game produce high draft choices every year, but what tht> coaches all know is that they play equally well on defense." 
Miami's schedule is a lot like tapioca pudding. There are a few bumps here and then1, but it's mostly one large helping of empty calories. Michigan State will provide the Hurricanes with their first test of the year. 
Perles sees this game as an­other big test for his team heading into Big Ten competi­tion. Michigan State has a his­tory of starting slowly because of a tough non-conference schedule, then coming on strong in conference play. 
"Somebody asked me after we played Miami (Ohio) if I'd learned anything," Perles said, referring to his team's 49-0 season-opening victory. "I took the question with a grain of salt but couldn't point out many things. After Notre Dame, we learned a lot about ourselves and our team -posi­tive stuff that should help us this week." 
Michigan State will be without star tailback Blake Ezor, injured with an articular ster­num last weekend. Ilylan Hickson, from Fort Lauderdale 
Holtz 
continued from page 16 
"We play the run well, but we can't play the pass particularly well, so their strengths match up with what seem to be our biggest weaknesses." 
Purdue has allowed an aver­age of 229 passing yards and 143 rushing yards per game. 
Think of your best friend. 
Now, think of your best friend dead. 
Doo't drive drunk. 
Reader's Digest 
(Fla.) Dillard High Sehool (former MSU star Lorenzo White's alma mater) gained 86 yards replacing Ezor last week­end. 
"llylan's very anxious to play, and I expeet him to play well," said Perles. "llylan has big thighs and does a pretty good job of hurdling people and run­ning over people." 
College Football 

The game that attracts the most national attention this weekend may be Colorado's in­tersectional contest with Washington, and not because both teams arc ranked in the Associated Press Top 25. 
Colorado, undefeated and fifth in the nation, will be play­ing its first game since former quarterback Sal Auncse died following a lengthy battle with stomach cancer. 
Washington coach Don James, whose 21st-ranked Huskies are coming off a 20-17 loss to No. 17 Arizona, is wor­ried enough about Colorado's talent, let alone emotion. 
''I've never seen a team that has more big plays in my life," said James. "In their three games, you look at their pass receiving, their rushing, their line -it's unbelievable." 
Auburn fans have seen their national-championship dreams laid to rest the last two times the Tigers visited the University of Tennessee's Neyland Stadium. 
In the 1985 "Tennessee 
Waltz," the Volunteers trashed 
a top-ranked Auburn team that 
featured eventual llcisman 
Trophy winner Bo Jackson. 
That band of Tigers never re­
covered, finishing 8-4 and out 
of the Top 20. 
When Auburn returned in 
1987, the Vols again surprised 
the Tigers with a tic. That 
game, along with a loss to 
Florida State and the infamous Sugar Bowl tie with Syracuse, were the only blemishes on Auburn's record that year. 

Led by Heggie Slack, perhaps the most underrated quarter­baek in the country, fourth­ranked Auburn makes another visit to Tennessee with national title aspirations this weekend. 
Now that Oklahoma has gone on probation, Houston is taking the Sooners' place as the team that makes a habit of running up huge scores on extremely weak opponents. 
With quarterback Andre Ware directing a run-and-shoot offense, the Cougars have opened this season with a 69-0 pasting of Nevada-Las Vegas and a 36-7 whipping of Arizona State. 
Last season's 9-3 campaign included a 60-0 win over Louisiana Tech, an 82-28 wax­ing of Tulsa and a 66-15 anni­hilation of Texas. 
The beat ligures to go on this Saturday when the Cougars face the Temple Owls. who just might be the worst team in Division 1A footbal this year. 
So far, Temple has lost 31-24 to Western Michigan, 43-3 to Syracuse, 42-3 to a struggling Penn State team and 23-0 to Virginia Tech. 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's Box Office, located in O'LaugtJiin Auditorium, Mon-Ffl9 a.m.-4 p.m. 

Peltier named as finalist for Golden Spike Award 
Special to The ObseiVer 
Dan P1dtier, NotrP Dame's all-time leading hitter. has hiH'n dH>SPn as one of nine linalists for the I()!{() GoldPn Spike Award, given annually to the nation's top amateur baseball player by the United States Baseball Federation. 
A two-time Academic All­American, Peltier was a first-team All-America se­lection by Baseball America and the American Baseball Coaches Association. lie hit .446 with 15 horne runs and 93 runs batted in last sea­son. 
lie finished his career as 
Notre Dame's all-time leader 
in batting, home runs, runs batted in, doubles and total bases. Peltier is eurrnntly en­rolled in the University and will receivn his degree in May before joining the Texas Hangers. 
The winner of the award will be announced on Thursday, Nov. 9, at the Downtown Athletic Club in New York City. 
Other nominees arc Scott Bryant of Texas, John Byington of Texas A&M, Alex Fernandez of Miami, Tom Goodwin of Fresno State, Ben McDonald of' Louisina State, Erie Wedge of' Wichita State. Dan Wilson of' Minnesota and Alan Zinter of' Arizona. 


. f%t--­
Tickets also available at Tracks (South Bend), Nightwinds (Niles), 
Super Sounds Record Connection. Satnt Mary's Colleg~ World Records (Elkhart) NOTRE DAME INDIANA Visa/MasterCard orders by phone at 
219/284-4626 


--~~------------­
Thursday, September 28, 1989 The Observer page 15 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 

12 p.m. Brown Bag Lunch, Lecture: " The Peace Move­ment of the 1980's-A Personal Account," by David Cor­tright, Visiting faculty Fellow of the Institute for Interna­tional Peace Studies and former executive director of SANE (Committee for a SANE Nuclear Policy) and former co-director of SANE/FREEZE. Room 101 Law School. Sponsored by the Institute for International Peace Stud­ies. 
CAMPUS EVENTS 
4:15 p.m. Ice Cream Sundae Social for Graduate Stu­dents. Library Lounge. Sponsored by Graduate Student Union Women's Resource Committee. 
7 p.m. Presentation and reception for Chemistry and Bio-Chemistry, undergraduate and graduate students in­terested in discovering career opportunities wit Eli Lilly & Co. Alumni Room, Morris Inn. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Roast Turkey Meatless Baked Ziti Reuben Sandwich 

ACROSS 31 More crimson 51 Assesses 34 Pathological 
proportionately1 Diagonal stripe condition Suffix 54 Lyndon's middlebetween name

opposite corners 35 Pariah of 17 Across 
59 Record37 Ending for so Top to bottom5 Composer Franz Ta1wan or division of 17Annam10 Newts 

Across 14 Graceful tree 
38 Spasms 
62 Scraped by 15 --Citato 
39 Like a judge 
63 Curtain fabric 161nter-64 Former coin of 
40Der­(Adenauer)
17 Display on an India escutcheon 41 Botanist Gray 65 Decorate anew 19 Depend (on) 42 Kind of fly trap 66 Bandleader Skinnay
20 Transported 43 Drew back in fear 67 Alcoholic or
21 Suites nonalcoholic44 Cured meat23 Clergyman's drink 

sch_ 46 Emphas1zes 25 Camer 48 Statutory 
DOWN

26 Chairperson 50 Inning closer 1 Moderate blue 2 Harrow rival 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 3 Approach 4 Kind of bank 5 Stored hay, in a 
way 6 Ecol_ agency 7 German 
gentleman 8 Visored helmet 9 Painting fixer 
Comb_ form 22 Brain passage 24 Casaba, for one 



26 Fibrous plants 33 Orchestra 49 Dud section
27 Mrs_ Gorbachev 51 Feather: Comb_ 36 An Italian sauce form
28 Having wavy lines, as 17 52 Roue
39 Tending to calm Across 40 Cries of 
53 Whirl 

contentment
29 Female reL 55 Muslim priest 42 Large star in30 Device 56 Hawaiian gooseLyrarepresenting 57 Sicilian city 

one's personal 43 Bristles name on 17 45 Shipworm 58 South African Across town
47 Muscovite's 32 A Lauder wherewithal 61 Former ring king 
COMICS 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
WILBUR AND WENDEL BILL WA HERSON 
THE FAR SIDE

IT W~ ~NO\i GARY LARSON I 1-\E.AQ.O A~'ITI-{\~G. 
I 11-\~T 1 0\0~" \\tAR 
/>. iWJMP. WIU. 
~rn\11'¥; 
'100 00 LOOKI 
OJT'510E-ft,NO Mft.~E. S\JR£ 11s ~~ ~~­1\\ING SO.'it'{ :> 

JAY HOSLER 

"He was magnificent! Just magnificent! And I almost had him! ... I can't talk about it right now." 


Tonight's Movie: 
in Cushing 
THE ACCIDENTAL TOURIST Auditorium 

$2.00 
All students interested in joining the ®LW~ [F)Od][PJOn©nuw ©©cn.ru cn.ru n® ® n©rru 

come to our meeting TONIGHT at 7:00 pm in the SUB office. 

---~----------~------------·~~--------~----------------------~-.­
Sports
page 16 Thursday, September 28, 1989 
Lambert gets birthday gift as Irish upset Boilermakers 
By GREG SCHECKENBACH In the first game, nothing would go and Shelton could do no wrong as the the game-winning and match-winning Sports Writer right for the Irish. After the game was Irish tied the Boilermakers one game point. tied at live, Purdue rallied for seven apiece. "We really clicked together as a Notre Dame volleyball coach Art straight points to grab a 12-5 lead. The "After a slow start, we pulled to­team," analyzed Turner. "There was a Lambert got one heck of a birthday Boilermaker's consistent style of out­gether and started to focus in and con­great eiTort from our seniors." 
present Wednesday when his team de­side attack crushed Notre Dame into centrate," stated Shelton after the Taryn Collins, one of the two seniors, feated Purdue 8-15. 15-12, 15-6, 15-5 submission. The Irish only managed match. "It felt real good-! really played an outstanding match with 58 at the Joyee ACC. eight points in the first game and wanted to do something for the team." assists and seven kills. ller middle set­
The victory was the first ever for Lambert could not have been pleased. Notre Dame's aggressive style of play tings to the likes of Fiebelkorn and Lambert against the Boilermakers and The only thing Purdue had to worry dominated the third and fourth games. Shelton gave the Irish momentum right also the first ever in Notre Dame vol­about was an Irish spurt. That is ex­Junior Amy White, who recently moved up until the last point. leyball history against the intrastate ri­actly what happened. from setter to hitter, had a team-high Collins is Notre Dame's all-time assist val. After Purdue jumped out to a 4-1 13 digs, most of which were of spectac­leader. 
Ironically, it was a shorter player lead, Notre Dame stormed back to take ular fashion. The Boilermakers were led by All­who stood tall for the Irish. Junior a 6-4 advantage. The game then shuf­America candidate Debbie McDonald, Tracy Shelton, who is only 5-foot-6, fled back and forth until the Irish even­At this point in the match. freshman who recorded 18 kills and a .432 hitting provided the spark for Notre Dame off tually won 15-12 on a kill by Freshman Alicia Turner made her presence felt as percentage, tops in the match. She also the bench compiling 13 kills in three Jessica Fiebelkorn. she dominated the Purdue blockers with led Purdue with 11 digs. games. Iter acrobatic style of play The only sour spot for Notre Dame numerous spikes and throws. Turner Notre Dame won the war of kills 73­epitomized the Irish attack as they was their lack of concentration on and White combined for seven service 56 in what started out to be a hustled to their third victory of the year serves. They had 12 service errors by aces. Boilermaker slaughter. After the first against eight losses. Purdue dropped to the end of the second game and 24 for Once again, the Irish utilized their game, the Irish never fell behind 5-7. the match. Other than that, the Irish middle attack as Fiebelkorn recorded Purdue. 
Giants, Athletics clinch division championships 
Associated Press 1-Ierm Winningham in the 13th inning as the Cincinnati Reds 
SAN DIEGO (AP) -Baseball eliminated San Diego from moved closer to its first all-Bay playoiT contention. Area World Series on Winningham led off the 13th Wednesday as the Oakland with a single off Calvin Athletics and San Francisco Schiraldi, 6-7, and then stole Giants each clinched division second. Two outs later, Davis titles. doubled home Winningham 
Oakland won the American from second for his 101st RBI. League West championship with a 5-0 shutout of the Texas Dodgers 1, Giants 0 Hangers. The San Francisco Giants 
The Giants lost to Los were swept for the first time Angeles 1-0 but clinched the this season, losing to Los National League West crown Angeles, and then waited to when the Cincinnati Heds beat hear from San Diego on San Diego 2-1 in 13 innings to Wednesday night. eliminate the Padres. The Giants needed a victory­
or a Padre loss -to win the Oakland 5, Texas 0 National League West, but Tim 
The Oakland Athletics became Belcher pitched four-hitter to the first repeat division cham­deny San Francisco a chance of pions since Kansas City in doing it on their own for the 1984-85 when they beat the third straight day. Texas Rangers. 
Blue Jays 8, Tigers 1
Mike Moore, 19-11, became Oakland's third 19-game win­Dave Stieb, 17-8, allowed ner by allowing one hit and no four hits and struck out seven runs over seven innings. Hick in 7 2-3 innings. Tom Henke Honeycutt followed Moore and finished for his 19th save. got two outs. Gene Nelson then Doyle Alexander, 6-18, gave up relieved and got four outs, three runs and seven hits in eompleting the four-hitter. seven innings and walked five. 
Reds 2, Padres 1 Eric Davis doubled to score see baseball/ page 13 

Holtz worried about NO's inside running game 
Notre Dame's rushing attack has had the much­
can," said lloltz. "Look at what he did at Wyoming traveled Lou Holtz wishing he were coaching in the Steve and Texas. People tend to forget it bncaus<~ lw lost Great White North. the bowl games, but he had two teams that were 
"What concerns me is most of our yards are Megargee 11-0 going into bowls." coming on the perimeter," said the fourth-year Akers had a 10-13 record in two years at Irish head coach. "I think we'd be a much better Wyoming, leading the Cowboys to an 8-4 rncord
Football Notebook 
football team if we played in Canada with their and Western Athletie Conferencn titln in 1976. In wider fields. We haven't run the ball inside the way 10 years at Texas, Akers' teams recordnd a total we have to with a degree of success." Craig llentrich has not taken long to leave his mark of 86-31-2 and won two SWC titlns. If the 
Fullback Anthony Johnson, the main inside run­mark on the Notre Dame special teams. Longhorns had won the Cotton Bowl in 1978 (a 38­ner for the Irish, certainly isn't the cause of the Hentrich, a freshman from Alton, Ill., has been 10 loss to Notre Dame) or 1984 {a 10-9 loss to problem. The tri-captain from South Bend is Notre the only Irish placekicker to attempt a field goal so Georgia), they would havt~ been national champi­Dame's second-leading rusher (behind Tony Hice) far this season. After three games, he's connected ons. with 179 yards on 49 carries. on two of five attempts (2-of-3 from within 50 Holtz has a 4-5 career reeord against Akers, go­
Holtz also says the offensive line is playing bet-yards) and is a perfect 8-of-8 on extra points. ing 2-5 at Arkansas and 2-0 at Notre. Damn. ter than it did last year. . Now it looks like Hentrich may be sharing the 
"I think it's a combination of two things," said punting chores with Jim Sexton. llentrich had a Purdue lost 38-9 to Washington in its last game.Holtz. "We're not as physical a football team as we 33-yard punt in the second half of last weekend's The Irish have outscored the Boilers 136-36 over used to be. The offensive line is playing pretty well, win over Michigan State. the last three years.but it's just not consistent. with everybody doing "lie's been kicking very well in practice," said Nonetheless, Holtz claims that Purdue's squad,the right thing at the right time." Holtz. "Jim Sexton has done a very good job for which relies on its passing game and rushing de­
Senior Dean Brown agrees with that assessment us, but Craig's a very talented individual." fense, matches up well with Notre Dame. of the line. ••• "Washington eouldn't run the ball particularly"It's just one person here, one person there, and Lou Holtz and Fred Akers are familiar rivals well against Purdue," said Holtz. "I don't earn how 
that always kills us," said the 6-foot-3, 291-pound from their days together in the Southwest many yards Washington got passing the ball; we tackle. "The offensive line's a unit, and one person Conference. While the Boilermakers have struggled can't pass very well. Miami {Ohio) had as much can kill us. That's what's happened when you look in Akers' first two years at Purdue, Holtz is confi­success running against Michigan State as they did 
at the film from the past three weeks." dent that things will soon turn around. Purdue. "If anybody can build a program, Fred Akers see Holtz/ page 14 
AP Photo Oakland Athletic's Mark McGuire is a big reason that his club defended their American League West divisional crown. Also, the San Francisco Giants clinched the National West division title last night despite losing to the San Diego Padres. The Giants will square off against the Chicago Cubs for the National League 
pennant. 




