--------------------~-----­
A little snow
IACCENT: Steamy 'Nightingales• review 
A 60 percent chance of light 

IVIEWPOINT: Making the grade 


Juniors and their parents enjoy a cocktail party workshops, Mass, and dinner Saturday, and a closing and dance Friday evening in the Joyce ACC as a brunch Sunday. Approximately 1700 juniors and their kickoff to Junior Parents' Weekend. The weekend's parents participated. A full photo spread of JPW ap­activities included Friday night's festivities, academic pears on page 7. 
Former Ku Klux Klan leader wins seat in Louisiana state legislature 

snow today. High in the mid 30s. An 80 percent chance of snow or rain tonight. Low in the low to mid 30s. 

Khomeini urges author's murder 
Associated Press 
guard of Scotland Yard, issued 

NICOSIA, Cyprus--Iran's an apology Saturday. Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini In New York Sunday, a on Sunday rejected the apology spokesman said Cardinal John of British writer Salman O'Connor criticized both "The Rushdie and exhorted Moslems Satanic Verses" and those who around the world to "send him threaten its author, and to hell" for his novel "The seemed to imply Catholics Satanic Verses." should avoid reading the novel. 
In a statement issued by the "He (O'Connor) encourages official Islamic Republic News everyone not to dignify the Agency, Khomeini said the publication of this work, which "imperialist mass media were has been viewed by Moslems falsely alleging that if the au­as highly sacrilegious and of­thor repented, his execution or­fensive," said Msgr. Peter der would be lifted. Finn, a spokesman for the car­
"Even if Salman Rushdie dinal. repents and becomes the most Khomeini's latest statement pious man of time it is incum­appeared to leave no room for bent on every Moslem (to) em­a negotiated settlement of the ploy everything he's got, his issue, which has put Britain's life and wealth, to send him to newly restored relations with hell," Khomeini was quoted as Iran in jeopardy. saying. A bounty of $5.2 million has 
Khomeini, patriarch of the been put on Rushdie's head by Islamic revolution, last week Iranian religious leaders since sentenced Rushdie to death for Khomeini issued the death sen­his novel, which Moslems say tence. insults Islam. In his message Sunday, 
Khomeini also called on non­

But Iranian President Ali Moslems to help carry out the Khamenei, allied with so­death sentence against called pragmatists led by par­Rushdie.
Associated Press in Metairie, a suburb of New Klan. As a teen-ager he was liament speaker Hashemi Raf­"If a non-Moslem becomesOrleans. Duke received 8,459 photographed in a Nazi uni­sanjani, sought to defuse the aware of his whereabouts andNEW ORLEANS--Newly votes, or 50.7 percent, to form. 
crisis Friday by saying has the ability to execute himelected state Rep. David Duke, Treen's 8,232, or 49.3 percent, U.S. senators, the governor Rushdie's life would be spared quicker than a Moslem, it is in-a former Ku Klux Klan leader, in Saturday's election. and other community leaders if he apologized and repented. 
scoffed Sunday at the notion he Duke registered as a Repub­of both parties warned that a Rushdie, in hiding under the see KHOMEINI, page 4
would be banned from the GOP lican two days before qualify­Duke victory would ruin the and not be seated by the ing for the race. Mter Duke's state's reputation and harm Legislature. stunning success in the Jan. 21 already tenuous race relations. 
"I repudiate any racial or re­primary, the national party While Duke said he was ex­ligious intolerance," Duke said sent three advisers to help his tending a hand in friendship to at a news conference. "Any mild-mannered opponent and the Jewish community and in­group--racial or religious--has persuaded President Bush and viting his opponents to talk with nothing to fear from David former President Reagan to him, he did not mince words on Duke." endorse Treen. where he stands on civil rights 
Duke, 38, squeezed out a 227-Duke became an interna­and affirmative action. vote victory over homebuilder tional spokesman for the Klan "I'm for getting the govern-John Treen, 63, to represent a in the 1970s as grand wizard of nearly all-white House district the Knights of the Ku Klux see DUKE, page 4 
Pacifist McCarthy finds role for peacemaking through journalism 
By CATHY J;L YNN The United States has a gov­if he was alive today," News Staff ernment obsessed with war, McCarthy said. McCarthy said. Teaching the Pacifism is something that 
Journalism can be used as an values of peace should be a people can practice in their instrument of peace, maintains priority, but instead children everyday lives, by the way they Coleman McCarthy, pacifist, are taught about war, accor­treat other people, he said. 
journalist, and editorial writer ding to McCarthy. McCarthy said he hopesfor The Washington Post. "You live in a culture that someday to · see courses in "I'm a journalist for one rea­allows the killing to go on," he peace studies as a part of the son," McCarthy said in a said. "One way to deal with curriculums of all universities, 
speech Friday. "I want to do that is to study the alternative colleges, and high schools. as much as I can to ease suf­to it." "Start" is McCarthy's keyfering in the world." "I'm a pacifist," McCarthy word. "You can't reform the 
Interviewing wealthy people said. "I believe in force--the world until you have your own 
who live in the fast lane does force of love, the force of revolution." not appeal to McCarthy, he words, and the force of ideas." 
said. "I interview the victims," Choosing peace is not easy in McCarthy is the father ofhe said. "We live in a world of our world, said McCarthy. If 
junior Jim McCarthy of Zahmvictims." Jesus was alive today, he would Hall. The Observer I Eric Bailey He added that he learns more be a radical and would make a Coleman McCarthy, journalist and editorial writer for The Washington
about American values by lot of Catholics uncomfortable, McCartby will speak again Post, shakes hands with Mary Abowd after giving a speech on Friday.talking to this country's out­he said. today at 2:20 p.m. in Madeleva McCarthy spoke on the importance of providing peace studies in edu­casts. "Jesus would be on death row Hall at Saint Mary's College. cation. Story at left. 


~~ 

page 2 The Observer Monday, February 20, 1989 
INSIDE COLUMN 
IN BRIEF 
A $75,000 gift was given to Notre Dame by the AT&T Foundation to underwrite a visiting scholar series within its College of Arts and Letters. The grant was awarded in installments over the last two years. "By pro­viding this sort of support for the College of Arts and Letters, the AT&T Foundation has earned the gratitude of devoted learners within and without the University com­munity," said Father Edward Malloy, University presi­dent. Through the AT&T Visiting Scholar Series, academic departments, institutes and interdisciplinary groups wit­bing the College of Arts and Letters will bring leading thinkers and researchers to Notre Dame for conferences and lectures. -The Observer 

An earthquake hit Tokyo and much of northern Japan on Sunday, killing one person and injuring another, shaking buildings and briefly halting some train and air­line service officials said. The quake, registering 5.6 on the Richter'scale, hit at 9:27p.m. (7:37a.m. EST), said a spokesman for the Meteorological Agency. The agency placed the epicenter about 36 miles underground near ut­sunomiya, 60 miles north of Tokyo. The quake also shook all of northern Honshu, Japan's main island, a stretch about 360 miles long, but it caused no tidal waves, the 
spokesman said -Associated Press 

OF INTEREST 
A German Mass will be celebrated at 8 p.m. today in the Keenall'Stanford Chapel by Father Patrick Gaffney. A reception will follow. -The Observer 

Third World Awareness Week begins today: 
Anthropologist Roberto DaMatta will discuss social con­
ditions in Brazil at the Center for Social Concerns cof­
feehouse at 4:30p.m. -The Observer 
1986-87 lnnsbruckers are reminded to meet today at 5:00 p.m. in the Blue Room of the North Dining Hall for dinner with Frau Horak. -The Observer 
Musical acts interested in competing for Nazz should pick up applications at the student government secretary's desk second floor, LaFortune, this week. Only the first 15 applicants will be accepted. The Na.zz will take place Saturday, March 18. -The Observer 
Summer internship applications with a. human rights organization in Washington D.C. are now being accepted by the Kellogg Institute. Applications are available in Room 121 Decio and should be returned before March 14. Call 239-6580 for more information. -The Observer 
Adult children of alcoholics meet today at 7:00 
p.m. upstairs in the CSC. -The Observer 
The Cheerleading Team will have an informational meeting at 8 p.m. today in the football auditorium of the Joyce ACC for those interested in trying out for the 198~-90 team either as cheerleader or leprechaun. Please brmg proof of insurance. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's seniors, "Management opportunities with Gantos" will be held today from 12:15 to 2:10p.m. in Room 303 Haggar College Center. Resumes will be ac­cepted. -The Observer 
A medical school interview panel discussion will be held today at 7:00p.m. in Room 127 Nieuw~and ~cience Hall. Representatives of North_western. Um~ersity, _the University of Chicago, and Indiana Umversity medical schools will offer advice on preparing for the medical school interview. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 


Design Editor·············~····· Lisa Tugman Viewpoint Copy Editor ....... Kelly Golden Typesetters ....................... Jim Mercurio Accent Editor ............... Robyn Simmons ........................................... Andy Scblidt Accent Copy Editor ...... ~~····· Mike Restle News Editor ..................... ~. Sara Marley ND Day EditoTS .................. Katie Gugle Copy Editor .................. .. Greg Lucas ............................... Margaret McCloskey Sports Copy Editor............ Greg Guffey SMC Day Editor .. ~.·~···· Rozel Gatmaitan 
ne o..ntr (USPS 599 2...000) is published Monday throuah Friday ac:ep1 durina cumllld v~eation periods. ne a.-nwis published by tbe students of the University of Notre Dame llld Saint Mary's CoiJeae. Subscripti0111 may be purchas­ed for S40 per year (S2S per semester) by writina ne o..ntr, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Jndiaaa 46556. 
ne o..ner is • member of ne ~.... "'-· All reproduction riahll are raerved. 




McDonald's 'quick food' long in preservatives 
"We agree with Senator GeorgeS. McGovern, a past chairman of the Senate's Subcommittee Mark on Nutrition, that 'quick foods are a nutritious 
Mclaughlin 0
addition to a balanced diet.' " 
McDonald's Food: The Facts 
What exactly is a "quick food," anyway? Is 
News Editor
that one of the four basic food groups: cereals, meats, vegetables, and quicks? Is it quick to make, quick to serve, quick to digest, or quick to exit? Well, McDonald's apparently sells it anyway. 
You deserve a break today, says McDonald's Corporation, the original (I think) purveyors of "quick foods." And so McDonald's has thought­fully provided its reading public with a handy­dandy 54-page booklet explaining exactly what is in each of its many fine culinary delights. The booklet, of course, tells us why McDonald's food products, in addition to being the ambrosia of the gods, are nutritious as well. 
Oooh, now I can find out what's in that "spe­cial sauce." Turns out it's soybean oil, pickle relish, vinegar, sugar, egg yolk, high fructose corn ~==~~~~ 
syrup, water, salt, spices (it doesn't say what ::; kind), potassium sorbate, xanthan gum, onion concentrate, garlic powder, hydrolyzed vegetable protein, oleorsin paprika and calcium 
ETDA. 
To McDonald's' credit, many of the foods are monosodium phosphate and polyethylene not so full of polysyllabic goo. Their cucumbers glycol. are made of (drum roll please) cucumbers. At least McDonald's tells us what's in their Their eggs are from "chickens around the food. Other restaurants don't. U.S.A." and are USDA Grade A. But many There's an interesting picture in the Facts of McDonald's products contain things like About Food booklet that puts all this in perspec­MSG, TBHQ, and sodium hexametaphosphate. tive. It shows a lemon being squeezed over a Most of these organic chemistry test answers basket of fruit. The text nearby says that lemon are explained further back in the book. Sodium juice stops fruit from turning brown, and benzoate, for example, "may have been modern chemistry has found that ascorbic acid originally derived from substances found in is the ingredient that is responsible. cranberries and prunes; long used as a Basically, most of these toxic-sounding preservative." And TBHQ "helps prevent ran­chemicals are actually derived from natural cidity in oils." Mmmmmm, mmmmm. stuff like oranges and seaweed. 
Many of these ingredients are, according to So who's to blame for the growth of gob­McDonald's, in very common use. Alginates, bledygook in everything we eat and drink? Orgo ammonium phosphate, potassium bromate, profs? The government? Ralph Nader? Is this and silicon dioxide are some of many that are stuff going to kill me or is it all really derived "commonly used ..."or "found in many salad from apples? I don't know and I doubt too many dressings you use in the home." people do. But I haven't keeled over yet, so it's 
I didn't believe Ronald McDonald here at a fairly safe bet that my next Quarter Pounder first. Mter all, these nutrition booklets are won't kill me. Why worry about it? usually written by marketing departments, That little booklet also mentions that · whose function is to accomplish organization "McDonald's serves breakfast, lunch and din­objectives (so says one marketing prof), not to ner to more than 20 million people every single inform the consumer. But I look on my bottle day." Apparently they don't care all that much of Dr. Pepper and find sodium benzoate, either. 

SAINT MARY'S STUDENT GOVERNMENT ELECTION 


/DEBATE! 
TONIGHT 7pm IN HAGGAR PARLOR 
Tickets running for Student Government President and Vice-Presidents will debate issues important to ALL Saint Mary's Students. Be there to hear how they stand I Questions will come from The Observer Staff and Scholastic. 
Comedian Steve Kimbrough 
9:15 Haggar Parlor to celebrate Washington·s Birthday! TONIGHT 

,__ 

The Observer page 3

J7 barges hit bridge, ""~ gas spill results 

-~ 

Associated Press 
CINCINNATI--Seven barges carrying gasoline broke free from a towboat on the Ohio River Sunday, spilling some fuel into the river after striking a bridge piling, U.S. Coast Guard officials said. 
The Coast Guard estimated about 10,000 gallons of gasoline escaped into the river. 
There were no reports of in­juries. Residents along the river in Ohio, Kentucky and In­diana were advised of the spill, said Petty Officer John Hixen­baugh. 
Coast Guard Lt. Chuck Polk said Sunday authorities were trying to determine what
Prison fire 
caused the incident. He said it was not immediately clear if
Firefighters battle a blaze at the North Dakota State 185 inmates from their cells. No injuries were re­
Pennitentiary in Bismark Friday evening. The fire ported. destroyed the prison dining hall and forced at least 

-~e-Obse..---~~r-----­
--=-J.-=1-1 -A.-=Y~~ 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 


Assistant Production Manager 
for further information, contact Alison Cocks at 239-5303 or 283-4042. 
the barges hit the bridge piling before breaking up. · 
The barges, containing leaded and unleaded gasoline, were being pushed downriver by the towboat MV super America from an Ashland Oil Co. refinery in Ashland, Ky. to an Ashland products terminal on the river in Cincinnati. 
The name of the ship's cap­tain was not immediately available. 
Ashland spokesman Roger Schrum and the Coast Guard said two of the barges were leaking. 
The incident occurred about 9:45a.m., and river traffic was flowing normally by Sunday af­ternoon, Polk said. 
Polk said gasoline products tend to stay on the surface and the spill will likely evaporate quickly. 
Coccia, Iannelli to fill Observer posts 
By MARK MCLAUGHLIN Senior Staff Reporter 
The Observer has announced its selections for the positions of managing editor and busi­ness manager for the 1989-1990 publishing year. 
Regis Coccia. a junior from 

For the facts call }Our local Red Cross. or Wlite, AIDS
American Red Cross +== 
W..Shington. DC 20006 

Coccia Iannelli 
Bound Brook, N.J., majoring in American studies and French, has been named managing editor. Coccia started working for The Observer in 1986 as a news copy editor. He has served over the past year as news editor. 
Coccia will succeed former managing editor and editor-in­chief elect Chris Donnelly. 
Rich Iannelli, a junior from · Colonia, N.J., majoring in ac­counting, has been named busi­ness manager. Iannelli started at The Observer as payroll manager in 1988 and has served there for the past publishing year. 
Iannelli will succeed former business manager John Ox­rider. 
Both Coccia and Iannelli will start their new duties after spring break. 



$1998~ 
$2998~
SOUTH BEND ONLY 
Broadmoor Plaza .t-~.....MOI.P.i!;\'1•~---~ 1111 E. Ireland Road 

291-4000 


$3998~ 
Hours: Take an additional 510 off the Mon & Thurs contact lens sale prices listed below with this coupon. .
9-8 
Tues, Wed, Fri.& Sat 
1 

9-6 ~/
-.J Examinations Available 1 -, ' -.J No appointment I . :,. 
necessary I -.J. Bring your Dr.'s Rx IBausch&LomborSofbna.te -.J Let us duplicate your 1ciearDallyorExtendedWear 
current glasses --------..---.....-­
Preferred Vision ProviderSM 
:k':nJ:~~=-s~·2 2 $9998: 
program-Metropolitan 1or Softmate Bonly. PAIRS 
1 

1 Omtact lens eye exam reqnrui Carekit not Included. Some power 1 m;trtctlons apply. Coupt11 must be J:rClletlled at lime of ortler.
L-----------------J 

------------~---­
page 4 



Khomeini 
continued from page 1 
cumbent on Moslems to pay a reward or a fee in return for this action," the statement said. 
Neither Khomeini's state­ment nor IRNA referred to the president's offer of a reprieve, reflecting a widening rift in the Iranian hierarchy over the Rushdie affair. 
In London, a spokesman for the British Foreign Office said: "we heard of this report with gre;;1t concern. We shall be con­sidering carefully its implica­tions. 
"This subject will, of course, be discussed in Brussels by the Foreign Affairs Council" today, when Foreign Secretary Sir Geoffrey Howe is to raise 


Duke 
continued from page 1 
ment out of our personal lives. I'm not for any law for segrega­tion or integration," he said. "The right not to associate is just as precious as the right to associate." 
Duke's victory was denounced by national Repub­lican Chairman Lee Atwater, who vowed to have Duke cen­sured and barred from using the GOP name. 
"David Duke is not a Repub­lican," Atwater said in a state­ment. "He's a pretender, a charlatan and a political opportunist who is looking for any organization he can find to try to legitimize his views of racial and religious bigotry and intolerance. 
"We repudiate him in his the issue, the spokesman said. 
The 41-year-old Rushdie, born to a Moslem family in In­dia, has not been seen in public since Thursday, two days after Khomeini's first decree. 

In his apology issued through an agent, Rushdie said: "As author of 'The Satanic Verses' I recognize that Moslems in many parts of the world are genuinely distressed by the publication of my novel. I profoundly regret the distress that publication has occasioned to sincere followers of Islam." 
Moslems say "The Satanic Verses" blasphemes their reli­gion by portraying the prophet Mohammed's wives as pros­titutes and suggesting that he wrote the Koran, the holy book of Islam, rather than receiving it directly from God. 
"The Satanic Verses" is 

views and we are taking imme­diate steps to see that he is dis­enfranchised from our party." 
"Is he going to censure me for my past? How many Republicans, how many Democrats have done contro­versial things in the past?" Duke asked. "The actions of Mr. Atwater are really un­American." 
Several lawmakers said they expect an attempt in the Legislature to refuse to seat Duke by challenging his qualifications, namely his residency in the district. 
It would be the first time the House has ever taken such ac­tion. The Legislature convenes for a special tax session on Wednesday. 
"It all depends on what the majority of the House wants to do," said House Speaker Jim Dimos, a Democrat. "Unless someone makes a motion to dis-
The Observer 

banned in Iran, India, Pakis­tan, Bangladesh, Egypt and South Africa. 
Publishers in France, West Germany, Greece and Turkey have decided not to publish the book, and some bookstore chains in the United States have pulled it from their shelves. 
The European Conference of Foreign Press Associations Sunday called Khomeini's or­der an "act of terrorism against freedom of conscience, of religion and of opinion, values which are held to be the truest expression of a civil and more human world." 
In Yugoslavia, the leading Communist Party daily began printing excerpts of "The Satanic Verses" in today's early edition. 
qualify him, then he will be sworn in. I know the people in his district elected him by a small margin, but he still was elected and has to be treated as a member." 
Asked if he had been a resi­dent of his district the requisite one year before the election, Duke said: "absolutely I am. It's a frivolous question." 
Metairie attorney Dave Sher­man, who said he represented several unsuccessful candi­dates from the primary, claimed to have irrefutable evidence that Duke failed to move into the district until Sep­tember. He said he has a state­ment to that effect from an al­leged roommate of Duke and power company records indi­cating utilities were not turned on in the Metairie con­dominium until September. 
---~~ ----~ ------~--------~--. 

AP Photo
Coming through in the crutch 
A young Afghan saws a piece of wood to make a crutch for Afghans who lost legs in a land mine accident in Kabul. After nine years of war, it is estimated that 30 million mines were scattered over Afghanistan by Soviet forces. 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Business Copy Editor 
For further information, please contact Matt Gallagher at 239-5303 or 283-1957. 





ICE-BERG DEBATES 










SEMI-FINALS 9:00 -10:00 P.M. 
''That non-prescription contraceptives 
should be made available to students 
through their public high school's healtlt 

clinic" 
FISHER (pro) vs STANFORD (con) 
at Montgomery Theater 
ZAHM (con) vs Pasquerilla East (pro) 
at Pasquerilla East 


ICEBERG DEBATES 
SPONSORED BY STUDENT GOVERNMENT AND THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 

-------~-------------~ 
Monday, February 20, 1989 
The Observer 
pageS 


Kollek-may lose control of council 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM--Mayor Teddy Kollek, Jerusalem's peacemaker for a generation, is virtually assured an tm­precedented sixth term in elec­tions this month, but his dream of a truly united city seems out of reach. 
Kollek is expected to lose control of the city council to re­ligious and right-wing parties in the Feb. 28 vote, a develop­ment that could heat up the re­ligious and Arab-Jewish con­flicts dividing the city of 500,000. 
"You have an increase of the extreme edges on all sides," said Kollek, 77, citing rises in religious, nationalist and secular activism. "To keep a middle line is very compl­icated." 
Kollek received an honorary degree from the Notre Dame in 1981. 
During a recent campaign stop in the outdoor Mahane Yehuda market, a rowdy stron­ghold of right-wing sentiments, 
he looked out of place in his 
blue wool suit and brown fur 
hat. But he was thronged by the 
vendors, some applauding and 
shouting "Teddy, Teddy!'' 
His popularity is expected to help the Vienna-born mayor match his 1983 results, when he won 65 percent in the direct vote. His One Jerusalem slate took 17 of 31 city council seats. 
But this year, Kollek could lose council control because of the growing strength of the re­ligious parties and the an­nounced election boycott by Arab voters, traditionally Kol­lek supporters. 
Working with a hostile coun­cil would weaken Kollek, who has been credited for keepingmuch of the bloodshed of the 14-month-old Palestinian upris­ing out of Jerusalem by trying to cool tempers and arguing with aggressive policemen. 
of..~~a~ea~~~~~~gsf:i~th~:~~Yitzhak Peretz, leader of the ultra-Orthodox Shas Party, in 
a campaign video. 

is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant News Editors News Copy Editors 
A one-page personal statement is due to Matt Gallagher by 5 p.m., Fri., F~b 24. Any questions, contact Matt Gallagher at 239-5303 or 283-1957. 

South African protest AP Photo 
About 300 blacks Saturday chanted, sang songs and all detainees. Approximately 300 detainees, many danced as they marched through downtown Johan­
held for over two years, went on a hunger strike three nesburg, carrying placards calling for the release of weeks ago to protest their incarceration. 


4 men detained at Mandala's home 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa--Police investigating the murder of a young black activist detained four men at Winnie Mandela's home Sun­day and said they found traces of blood during a pre-dawn raid there. 
Radio reports said the men served as Mrs. Mandela's bodyguards. 

"This is a thorough search of the premises where the alleged attacks and assaults took place, according to witnesses," said Maj. Gen. Jaap Joubert, chief of the investigation into the death of Stompie Seipei, 14. The boy's body, with the throat slit, was found last month dumped in Soweto, the sprawl­ing black township outside Johannesburg. 

Then get in on the ground floor in our undergraduate officer commissioning program. You could start planning on acareer like the men in this ad have. And also have some great advantages like: 
• Earning $100 a month during the school year 

• 
Juniors earn more than $1900 during one ten-week summer session 

• 
You can take free cMlian flying lessons 

• 
You're commissioned upon graduation Ifyou're looking to move up quickly, look into the Marine Corps 



South  African  Police  
released  a  videotape of their  
operation,  showing  officers,  

without gloves, searching trunks of clothing, leafing through photograph albums and collections of African Na­tional Congress literature, and lifting up what appeared to be blood-soaked sneakers, a knife and a pair of gardening shears. 
The camera focused on spots on the walls of some back rooms where the detained men lived. State-run Radio South Africa said the spots were spat­ters of blood. 
Three Soweto men have said Mrs. Mandela's bodyguards abducted them and the boy and beat them at the Mandela house. They say Mrs. Mandela, 
• wife of imprisoned ANC leader Nelson Mandela, was involved. 
Mrs. Mandela, 54, has denied being at home when the four were brought there. But she has defended their abduction and said they probably were "slapped" to get them to talk about alleged homosexual ac­tivities at the Methodist Church residence where they lived. The church denies her allega­tions. 
"We have found fingerprints 
and blood samples which will 
be sorted out in the labora­
tory," said Joubert. He said 
police will try to prove in court 
that members of the so-called 
Mandela united soccer team, 
who live at Mrs. Mandela's 
home and act as her 
bodyguards, assaulted the boy 
who died. 
The Rev. Frank Chikane, general secretary of the South African Council of Churches, told a news conference Satur­day that Mrs. Mandela had decided to remove the young men from her home at her hus­band's instruction. 
Major anti-apartheid leaders inside South Africa and the exiled African National Congress president have publicly criticized Mrs. Man­dela's association with the soc­cer team. 
Joubert said one of those detained during the 4:00 a.m. raid was Jerry Richardson, identified as team coach. Others arrested at the house were not named, but Radio South Africa said 
Mrs. Mandela 



-iiiiilllillillli~ 
Your education will not end with graduation. As a grad­uate nurse at Rochester Methodist Hospital, you will receive a comprehensive twelve-week long orientation where you will further develop your professional skills. Beyond orientation, you will have the challenges and the growth opportunities that a world-class medical center can provide. · 
Spring grads apply now for positions available in 1989. Starting salary $26,228. Attractive benefit package. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital is an 800-bed Mayo Foundation Hospital. Choose challenge. Choose growth. Choose Rochester Methodist Hospital. 
Rochester Methodist Hospital, Personnel Services, Nursing Recruitment Section, 201 West Center Street, Rochester, MN 55902, (507) 286-7091 (Collect). 
Rochester Methodist H~ital 
A MAYO FOUNDATION HOSPITAL 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 

CONTACT YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE FOR FURTHER INFORMATION 

page 6 The Observer Monday, February 20, 1989 


Dole encourages vote on Tower 
Associated Press FBI reports on Tower, said al­
WASHINGTON--Sen. Robert legations surrounding Tower's Dole said Sunday he has found private life and drinkin"g habits nothing that should disqualify are "an appropriate subject of John Tower as defense secre­inquiry" because of the impor­tary and that the Senate should tance of the defense post. "stop the dragnet" and move "There is, I think, a ahead with his confirmation. legitimate concern particu­
"I think we should stop larly since, given the advent of 
checking every rumor. Unless modern technology, a presi­there's some criminal activity, dent, a secretary of defense, a let's get on with the vote," national security adviser could Dole, the Senate minority have as little as 20 minutes to leader, said on the CBS-TV in­react to the possibility of nu­terview program "Face the clear holocaust to bring judg­Nation." ment to bear at any time," said 
Senate Majority Leader Mitchell. 
George Mitchell, D-Maine, an­
other guest on the program, Much of the inquiry into 
j promised a quick vote on the Tower's fitness to become AP Photo Tower nomination once it defense secretary has centered 
The campaign trail leaves the Senate Armed Ser-on allegations surrounding the vices Committee. former senator's drinking
John Treen, who lost to David Duke in in the run-off Duke, former Ku Klux Klan member, who won by a But Mitchell, although habits and his relationshipsfor the Louisiana legislature Friday, hands out cam­narrow margion, has sparked controversy. Story page saying he had not yet read the with women.
paign information earlier in the day. The election of 1. 
Afghan president tightens his grip 
Associated Prt;.~ 
KABUL, Mghanistan-­President Najib, seeking to tighten his grip on the govern­ment and military, will form and lead a supreme military council to coordinate the armed forces' fight against Moslem guerrillas, the foreign minister said Sunday. 
The announcement came a day after Najib declared a nationwide state of emergency and replaced seven members of his Cabinet who were not members of his ruling People's Democratic Party of Mghanis­tan. 
In Islamabad, Pakistan, guerrillas trying to form their own interim government failed to agree on a Cabinet list, and several delegates walked out of a meeting. 
Guerrillas also claimed to have captured a provincial capital in central Mghanistan, taking government soldiers prisoner and seizing arms and ammunition. 
Foreign Minister Abdul W akil said in an interview with British Broadcasting Corp. radio the military council will coordinate economic and mili­tary activities and will be formed "in the next few days." He said the new council will not replace the Cabinet. 
W akil also said the emer­gency declared Saturday night was a precautionary measure and a "sign of strength, not weakness." New security measures will include house searches, he said. 
Foreign ministry officials said seven members of the ruling party's policy-making Central Committee are replac­ing the ousted non-party min­isters. 
"We wanted to give a sign to the counterrevolutionaries and show them the party is not finished," one senior party member said on condition of anonymity. "We are stronger than ever." 
A diplomat who refused to be identified further said the res­huffle and emergency indicate N a jib will be harder to remove from power. 
"He has surrounded himself with his people. He's showing that he's now in charge, he's calling the shots now that the Soviets are gone," said the diplomat. 
r:rhe Red Army withdrew the 

last of its troops from Mghanis­to bring down N a jib now that tan on Wednesday under terms the Soviets are gone. of a U.N.-mediated accord. They had been in Mghanistan Moderate guerrilla factions for nine years backing Najib in walked out of the guerrilla his war with Moslem guerril­council session Sunday that las. was to approve the nomina­There still are 10 non-party tions. They opposed the members in the Cabinet, in­nomination of hardliner Ah­cluding Prime Minister mad Shah as prime minister. Mohammad Hassan Sharq, his deputy and two vice presidents. There was no independent The Pakistan-based guerril­confirmation of the report, las, who Saturday nominated which was carried by the Af­leaders of a government-in­ghan News Agency, a rebel exile in Pakistan, have vowed medium based in Islamabad.  is currently accepting applications for the following position: Business Page Editor For further information, contact Matt Gallagher at 239-5303 or 283-1957.  

NOTICE TO ALL POTENTIAL MAY 1989 GRADUATES The Registrar's Office has sent a mailer to each student who is expected to graduate this May. It contains the potential graduate's NAME and HOMETOWN as they appear in the commencement program and the NAME as it will appear on the diploma. If you have not received a mailer, and expect to graduate this May, or if you would like to make any changes to either your name or hometown, please contact the Registrar's Office before February 20, 1989. Graduate stud~nts should contact the Graduate School Office -ROOM 316 Administration Building. Law students should report to ROOM 106 of the Law School. Questions about your Degree-Major should be directed to your Dean. Diploma name changes requested after February 20 will require a $20.00 charge. You will receive a commencement ticket request form by March 1, 1989 together with information about announcements, cap/gown rental, etc. Daniel H. Winicur, Ph.D. Dean of Administration and University Registrar  

-----------~~---------------·---~---------------------------­
Monday, February 20, 1989 The Observer page 7 
JPW brings 'lta.l(~a.tta.l( ;tt~,~ ' to JA C C 

The 37th Annual Junior Parents' Weekend allowed the Class of 
1990 to share their Notre Dame experiences with their parents. 
Sc~.n~s frornJhis weekend'~ activities included: A visit with Freshman 
Year DearfEmil Hofman by Shenanigans members (left to right) 
Robert Micek, Christina Fallon, Kathy Habiger and Tim Beerman; a 
ba~~etbaUg~me bet¥/een UpiversityPresident Father Edward Malloy 
Photography by E.G. Bai~ey 
and junior Tom Zidar;mothers chatting over coffee, and juniors Tony Rice (left) ahd Doug Biolchini share a light moment at the President's DinneL 





-------, 

Viewpoint 
Monday, February 20, 1989

page 8 
ND grading scale: an unfair system 
Recently one of my professors an­nounced the grading scale that he would be using on history exams this semester. There were some muffled comments in the auditorium. The gen­eral ccasensus was that it was pretty steep. The bad news began: 100%-97% A, 96%-94% A-, 93%-91% B:+... 
Bob Brutran 
guest column 

Even though I don't consider myself to be overly academic, and despite the fact that I've never gotten 98% on anything in my life, this article is not a personal gripe about my grades. I think that an error was made in adopt­ing a new grading scale with the addi­tion of pluses. There was a lot of pres­sure to change the system last year, and the plan we got may not have been fully thought through. That is probably one reason the new grading system was passed on a trial basis. The new grading scale has had real effects, and causes some problems that should be ad­dressed. 
The biggest problem appears to be the addition of pluses without an A+ . The effect seems to be to push each letter grade up at least three percentage points. The University has left the actual break-down of percent­ages up to the individual instructors. Du Lac only specifies what each letter grade correlates to on the four point scale. 
Last semester one of my professors asked the class what our other teachers were doing about the new scale. He said the he wanted to be fair, but he couldn't see too many ways to divide nine letter grades into 30 percentage points with­out resulting in the above' scale. When he talked to other faculty members he found confusion, because everybody was breaking it down differently. 
I know that grades aren't the end-all in life, partly because I transferred to Notre Dame after spending some time in the real world. However, there are some places where grades really do count. One of them is in competing to enter graduate schools. The admissions offices of many graduate programs evaluate transcipts by routinely round­ing to whole letter grades. In other words, they drop the pluses and minuses and then figure your GPA. This isn't a problem unless your course­work put you on the border between grades. For example, your teacher may now give you aB +where last year you would have gotten an A-. When rounded, there is a big difference be­tween an A and a B. 
The registrar's office also sends along a note explaining that your grades were figured under two differ­ent systems. This could easily have the following hypothetical effect. You and your roommate have identical grades, letter for letter, pluses and all. 

However he has a higher G PA than you, because he was lucky enough to get his B-grades last semester when they were worth 2.67 and you got your B-'s two semesters ago when they were worth 
2.50. It may not seem like a lot, but it compounds and it could effect your room picks, etc. 
Another place that grades are impor­tant is in competing for that first job. Many recruiters may not know that it was easier to get a 4.0 at the respected state college I attended than to get a 
3.0 here. (That is backed up by the fact that most colleges require more than a 
3.4 to make the Dean's List, yet we know how difficult that is here.) Notre Dame students must compete hard academically to get good grades, but then we have to compete in the job mar­ket against students from lower­pressure schools that have more generous grading scales. In fairness, however, we also have the big Notre Dame name, and the national champi­onship football team. 
We all knew that Notre Dame was competitive when we came here. The vast majority of students here got good grades in high school and work hard enough to deserve good grades in col­lege. We also realize that 90% of the deserving students can't have 30% of the grades. However is it really fair to make the scale artificially high by trim­ming the A range down to just 7% (30o/o11) of the available range? Does it serve a good purpose to further hand­icap students because we attend a highly competitive school? Is it really possible to split hairs fine enough to accurately discriminate between grades within three percentage points? 
When the new grading system comes up for review it should be rolled back. It should be replaced by a scale that is well thought out to reflect a positive bias toward learning and to eliminate the handicaps imposed by the current system. 
Bob Brutan is a junior economics!ALPA major. 

P.O. Box Q 
Third World Week sponsored by ODN 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing on behalf of the Over­seas Development Network <ODN) to inform you and the Notre Dame student body that this week, Feb. 20 through 24, has been designated as Third World Awareness Week. 
Throughout the year ODN has weekly meetings, shows films, presents speakers, and sponsors other events aimed at increasing student awareness of conditions and issues facing other nations of our world, particularly poor and underdeveloped third world na­tions. We involve ourselves with a fundraising campaign through which we raise money by selling T -shirts to sponsor a grass-roots development project in some needy area of the world. 
We also sponsor Third World Aware­ness Week to present students who may be somewhat ignorant as to actual con­ditions or issues in third world nations an opportunity to educate themselves through daily lectures, informal discus­sions, a firstihird world dinner, and a free film. The week's events kick off today at 4:30p.m. at the Center for So­cial Concerns when Prof. Roberto DaMatta, a renouned anthropologist, will speak about social conditions in Brazil. I hope every student will find the time to attend at least one event during this week and increase his or her awareness of the rest of our world. 
Tom Keating Overseas Development Network 
Feb, 17, 1989 

Viewpoint would like to occasionally highlight quotes from faculty members, students and readers. So if you or someone you know says something intellectually stimulating, brilliantly funny, or clearly controversial, send the quote to Viewpoint, P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Garry Trudeau Quote of the Day 
THE HONeY-I THOI.J(jHTUOON IS fA/tV 5TAIU 
fFfl ~6HT IN
IJVER! 
ON /JTH1[!3. 
'A man never knows how to say goodbye; a woman never knows when to say it.' 
\ 
-Helen Rowland 

Doonesbury 
ALSO, OIP I MCNTION HIS MJINN&RS? 6E:OR68 BVSH IS NOTHING IFNOT fla/78.' WHO 
\ ~v2 ~ 


----. ----A.-=Y=.'-" --­
-Ih-e-Obse.~~r-­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by tile students of the Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the polic1es of the adm1n1Strat1on of e1ther Institution. The news IS reponed as accurately and obJectively as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion of lhe matonly of the Editorial Board Commentaries. letters and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column s~ace IS ava,lable lo all members of the commun1ty and the free expression of vary1ng op1n1ons on campus, through letters, IS encouraged. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-m-Ch1el Managmg Ed1tor News Ed1tor News Ed1tor Viewpomt EditJ;M Sports Ed1tor Accent Ed1tor Samt Mary's Ed1tor Photo Ed1tor 
Ofierations Board  
. Chris Murphy  Business Manager  
Chns Donnelly  Adverttsmg Des1gn Manager  
Reg1s Cocc1a  Advertismg Manager  
Mark Mclaughlin  Productton Manager  
.... Dave Bruner  Systems Manager  
. Marty Strasen  Controller...  
Beth Healy  Graph1c Arts Manager  
Sandy Cerimele  
Michael Moran  

Founded November 3,1966 
John Oxrider Molly Killen Lmda Goldschm1dl Bernadene Sh11ts Mark Ridgeway Todd Hardiman Marga Bruns 

-....


Accent
Monday, February 20, 1989 page9 
No cure for sexy 'Nightingales' 

orne say that nothing is S ever really new; it is simply presented in a new fashion. No television show is a better support of this state­ment than NBC's new drama "Nightingales." It combines the dorm-like situation of tirely within one episode. In one storyline, Bridget's (Susan Walters) "boyfriend" uses her to help a drug deal. In another episode, naive Be­cky (Kristy Swanson) is mugged and copes with her social "awakening" to the 
JOE BUCOLO 
To Be Continued ... 

"The Facts of Life" with the hospital scenario of "Trapper John, M.D." and the sex and exploitation of "Dallas." The result is an absurd, twisted malady that even Florence Nightingale herself couldn't help cure. 
The nurses of NBC's "Nightingales" strut into the homes of Americans at 10 
p.m. Wednesdays. The show situates itself around the lives of five nursing students, their resident manager Chris (Suzanne Pleshette), and those working in the hospital under Dr. Garret's (Barry Newman) supervision. The students, however, are not just ordinary nurses-to-be; they are five of the most beautiful girls on television, and the producers take every opportunity to exploit this fact. 
The stories are intriguing and unique in that some are continued from week to week, and some are contained en-fact that Los Angeles is a far more dangerous place than her small hometown in Mis­souri. (Who would've guessed?) 
Of course, those who know nothing about nursing will find the show quite educa­tional. The fact that all stu­dent nurses parade around nearly naked or in tight leotards may well quicken even the slowest of heartrates. Audiences may also question the validity of a scene in which Allyson (Kim Johnston) and a young doctor make love in a hospital utility closet. The point is that "Nightingales" degrades the entire profession of nursing. Florence would turn over in her grave if she knew. 
What's more, the show makes no attempt to depict those in the medical profes­sion as the caring people they are. In one episode, when Al­lyson hears that a patient has pains, she neglects to chart that information, and the doc­tor ignores the symptoms for a chance to give Allyson one more kiss. Chris, who holds a high position at the hospital in addition to her duties at the Nightingale House, leaves work early for a fifty percent sale at a department store. 
It gets worse. Chris, a per­son who should be perceptive to the needs of those around her, does not even know her ex-husband likes children. If she cannot even "read" a man with whom she lived, how would she be qualified to counsel and help girls she hardly even knows? Yolo (Roxann Biggs) shows no sympathy for Becky as she copes with the aftermath of her mugging. Where are those shady characters from the soaps who sneak into hospital rooms to pull the plug on ailing patients when they are needed? 
The show's premise is a good one, and the talent of Suzanne Pleshette is a major asset; however, these gems quickly lose their luster. If the producers would provide the show with an injection of realism in its portrayal of nursing school, "Nightin­gales" would be stimulating. 
"Nightingales" is an ab­surd, exploitative show. It is NBC's attempt to gain ratings through sex and beautiful girls. "The Facts of Life" was cutesy; "Trapper John, M.D." was creative; "Dal­las" is compelling. "Nightin­
-
•;. 
•~. 


MATT CLEARY 
'Letters from the Orient' 
So, if any guys back at ND are getting headaches from all that "you don't treat me fairly" nagging, just have the girls read this story--or even send them here. They'll never complain again. 
First, I'd like to talk about how women here are treated by the society as a whole. 
Calvin and Hobbes 
HER£ '«£ fiR£ I ~\SED O!*THE. PR£CIP\C.E OF 'SUIC\OE Stnf'E:· 
BtlP'tl US llE THE SI<£\..EI~L k£W,IIotS ~ HUNDREDS \:Jr llnlE SI.ED RID£RS. 
watching for a while, a major difference becomes apparent: the woman never says anyth­ing. The male anchor never shuts up, telling you what happened today, what the So­viet reaction was, and how it's been linked to cancer in your everyday life, while the woman does nothing but con­stantly nod her head and say "Yes, that's true," and "Isn't that right!" If she's good, they might let her announce the commercial breaks. 
Another TV scene that 

surprised me was one of 
Japan's many game shows. The host, of course, is decked out in Tokyo's finest fashion; 
but what is the Vanna-White­like-letter-turner wearing? She's clad in some sort of red, Playboy bunny outfit, complete with the net stock­ings and the big ears. The whole time, the host just can­not resist grabbing her furry little tail every time she turns around to flip over a card; and the audience, even though it is mostly female, can't stop laughing. Now, I really thought it was hilarious, but then I'm a sexist. I'm sure mainstream 
Bill Watterson 

gales" is pure catastrophe. If two-part saga "Passion and NBC executives have any Paradise" concludes tomor­sense of social responsibility, row at 9:00. Tonight's episode they will pull this show off its of "The Hogan Family," part respirator and send it to the one of two, sets the stage for morgue. David's (Jason Bateman) 
marriage. Friday's episode of 

Stay Tuned: With February "Dallas" is a special two­comes ratings period and hour segment including a with ratings period comes the wedding gala ... another mini-series onslaught. ABC's ratings ploy? 
Sexism abounds in Japanese culture 
H 
ere in Japan, treating girls as equals doesn't get you dates--it gets you stared at. Women here generally get the same amount of respect that most Americans give their faithful pets, or maybe their maid, if they have one. 
~1989 Univerul Press Syndiclle 
Notre Dame would be ap­
palled. 
This brings me to my next point, which even for us male supremacists is a little dis­turbing. The average Japan­ese man treats the average Japanese woman almost like a toy, especially in a sexual way, like on TV. Prostitution is illegal, of course, but it is so accepted that it can be ad­vertised in pamphlets and some magazines, and the stores themselves make no effort to hide the true nature of the building. Married businessmen actively engage in the industry, and it is not all that shameful for a girl to be in the business, or in the similar activities of blue movies and "hostesses." Al­though I am sure that this is more of an exception than a rule, it is true to a certain extent that women are seen as being good for sex, having children, doing housework, and not much more. High­level jobs are not very open to women, and there is also a large pay discrepancy. 
Besides these broad social trends, and perhaps more im­portantly, there is an inequal­ity on a personal level, even between couples, that I find very surprising. There are countless examples of this, but many of them occurred to me on the same night, when I One good way to observe this is to watch a bit of television. The first thing I noticed was the newscasts. Most of them now have one man and one woman as co-anchors, just like the American networks have started to do. But after went out with a Japanese friend and two girls. First, we met the girls outside of a sub­way station. From there to the restaurant, the girls didn't talk, because they were being sure to stay ten or fif­teen feet behind us. "Why are they walking back there?" I asked. "They are like dogs," my friend said. He was serious, too. 
When we got to the restau­rant, I held the door open and waited for the girls to go in, but they just stood, staring at me, because I was supposed. to go in first. In the same way, the guys sat first and ordered first. The two girls didn't say anything until they were asked what they wanted. For most of the night, they didn't say much unless they were asked to speak. Also, they seemed to be responsible for keeping beer in front of me, and clearing my plate when I was finished eating. When we left, they split the bill. Imagine that. 
Of course, not every man is like my friend, and not every girl is willing to be totally subservient. But things are bad enough that I know when I return to the States, I'll have no tolerance for the petty complaints of American girls. They don't know how easy they've got it! 


a e 10 The Observer Monday, February 20, 1989 



Weds. 
r·····················-,
I 

I WILD WEDNESDAY! 
I 

I Get Two Small Pizzas 
I 

I With Any Topping 
~ Offer valid only FOR ONLY on Wednesday.
1 
One offer per 
$5 99 
order. Customer 



Ill •
1 

pays sales tax. , ~ I Valid at listed • II(),U-116~~ 
I locations. • ~~li#~~ : Expires: 2-22-89 r~·. y 
~---------------------~ 
•••... 

It's a p1zza lover's dream come true. Every day this week. you can get a special offer from Domino's Pizza.· Whether it's free extra crust or a free small cheese pizza. there's more reasons to make this the week for a special treat from Domino's Pizza. So why not give us a call? In 30 minutes or less, you'II see why this is the week you've been waiting for. 
Call Now! 
Notre Dame 
277-2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. 
· 

-
Mon. 
r·····················-,
MONDAY MADNESS! Get One Small Cheese and Pepperoni Pizza 
Offer valid only FOR ONLy 
on Moday. One offer per 
$

3 99
~f;t~a~ ..M~-~-·s~
loca~ons. mil~­
® JW~$..;.-­

Exp•res: ~ 2-20-89 . 
·----------------------· 
Tues. 


r·····················-,
TERRIFIC TUESDAY! 1 Get Two Medium Pizzas I With your choice of up to seven I 
toppings-single portions only. 1 Offer valid only II FOR ONLY 1 
on Tuesday. One • 
offer per order. · 1
$9 99 1 DOMINO'S
Customer pays • I 
sales tax. Valid • · ® • 1 PIZZA at listed 4/J.-l,~ I locations. ~~~...~-12~.. s~ 1 DELIVERS< 
Expires: 2-21-89 ~vrv~ I 
II~· 

FREE. 
Sun. 


r·····················-, 
SUNDAY DOUBLE FEATURE! Get Two Small Cheese Pizzas 
Offer valid only ~~ FOR ONLY 
on Sunday. One • . 

$ 
offer per order. 

4 49 
Customer pays • • sales tax. Valid • · ® at listed -?/~~­locations. "1!'l....A:~"':·.Q~. ~~ Expires: 2-26-89 ~~ 
·----------------------· 
Thurs. 


r·····················-,
THICK THURSDAY! Get One Medium Pan Pizza loaded with extra cheese, pepperoni, and thick crust 
Offervalidonly ~~ FOR ONLY
on Thursday. 
One offer per • 
$5 oo 
order. Customer • • pays sales tax. Valid at listed • · ® ~ locations. "f:l../,i~twU~-~~ 2-23-89 ~vrv,!_ 
·----------------------· 
Fri. 


r·····················-,
-: -WACKY WEEKEND! 1 1 Get 6 Icy Cold Cokes® : : with any pizza purchase : 
: Offer ~alid only FOR ONLy : 
on Fnday and
1 1 
Saturday. One 99~
1 
1 offer per order. Ml "' :
Customer • I pays sales tax. · I 

: Valida~listed :. ® ~~ : 
locat..ons. ~·-~ 
1 ~ 1
Exp1res: I 2-24-89 I 
·----------------------· 
Sat. 
r·····-----------------,
WACKY WEEKEND! I Get 6 Icy Cold Cokes® : with any pizza purchase I 
Offer vAlid only FOR ONLY : 
on Friday and 1 Saturday. One 
99 
1 
offer per order. lfa.
Ml
· Customer • "' : pays sales tax. ~ ..J.MJ.w sM 1Valid at listed : . ® "(W~~~· I 1::,~:~· ,-nefi.¥eM'~ I 
2-2s;g9 V I 
·--------------------~ 

.. 


~------------------~----------------~-----------------------------------~---------­
Monday, February 20, 1989 The Observer page 11 
When the Irish realized that _.., it was possible that they might 
Swim Missouri destroys Nebraska
be upset, the swimmers rallied 
continued from page 16 
and closed the meet out on Sat­
proved Xavier finished third with 258 points. By the second day of compe­tition, it was evident that the  urday night. Individual highlights for the Irish included two wins by Paul Godfrey in the 400 I.M. and the  Associated Press Gary Leonard scored 11 of Missouri's first 17 points as the  lead with 1:50 remaining. King Rice sank two free throws and converted a three­point play, and Jeff Lebo added  Eric Leslie, who had been leading the Rams in scoring with an average of 17.5, scored just two points.  
women's team was in control. The Irish displayed both power and depth as they piled up points. Christy Moston had three first-place finishes for the Irish, and Amy Tri had two vic­tories and two second-place finishes, but it was the depth of Notre Dame that sealed the win for the team. Every swimmer scored during the three-day event.  200 fly and a victory by Jim Byrne in the 100 backstroke. In addition, the men's Outstand­ing Athlete Award went to Notre Dame's Jim Birming­ham, a freshman from Silver Spring, MD. Birmingham turned in his best perfomance of the year as he won four frees­tyle events. Welsh was named the Men's Coach of the Meet as he guided the men's team to its third win  No. 3 Tigers defeated Nebras­ka, 79-63. The Tigers, 2-2 under interim head coach Rich Daly, went ahead 19-6 and extended it to 38-21 at halftime. Nebraska, 14-12 and 2-8 in the Big Eight, shot 8-for-31 in the first half. The Cornhuskers did not reach double digits in scoring until Bo Reid's bucket made it 25-10 with 7: 41 left in the half. Leonard scored 23 points and  four more points in the final 90 seconds for the Tar Heels, 22-5 overall and 8-3 in the Atlantic Coast Conference. J .R. reid scored 17 points for the Tar Heels. John Johnson scored 24 points for Maryland, 8-16 and 1-10. WVA 90, Rhode Island 66 Cl:.ris Brooks scored 22 points  UNLV 62, Temple 60 Greg Anthony made a game­winning, off-balance jumper with 28 seconds left as the Run­nin' Rebels rallied in the final four minutes. Temple, 15-9, led 56-53 before Anthony tied it on a 3-pointer with four minutes remaining. Anderson Hunt's 3-pointer with  
"We have a lot of talent, but we have to back that up with enough depth in order to win," said Irish coach Tim Welsh. The Irish talent was obvious ~uring the meet. For example, m the 100-yard butterfly Notre Dame swimmers took four of the top six places. Also, the Irish took four of the top 12 spots in the 100 breast and the 400 individual medley.  in the championships in three years and his fourth year at Notre Dame. The Irish men scored all of the swimmers that traveled and were never behind. Their total for the first day was 186 points, and they relied on this lead throughout the rest of the championships.  Anthony Peeler 22 for Missouri, 22-5 and 8-2. Rich King scored a career-high 22 points for Ne­braska. UNC 86, Maryland 75 Steve Bucknall scored 14 of his 16 points in the second half, including a 3-pointer with three seconds left on the shot clock that gave the Tar Heels a 73-66  and Ray Foster 17.as the Moun­taineers, 22-2 and 15-0 in the At­lantic 10, extended the nation's longest winning streak to 21 games. ·John Evans scored 23 points for Rhode Island, 11-13 and 7-8, which lost its third straight. Herb Dixon scored 17, includ­ing 11 in the second half, and Kenny Green 11.  3:31 left gave Nevada-Las Vegas a 59-56 lead. Mark Macon, who scored 17 of his 27 points in the second half, made a jumper with 2:10 left, pulling Temple within one. He was fouled by Stacey Aug­man with 1: 05 to go and made both free throws, giving Temple a 60-59 lead.  - 
The turning point for the wo­men's team was the second day when they pulled away from the rest of the teams. From that point on it was clear that the Irish were too powerful to overcome. The men's team got a tough battle from Evansville, and victory was not secure until the last night of competition. Co­ach Welsh attributes this to an unbalanced lineup. The Irish had several swimmers entered in one event, but only one in another. This factor kept the meet close up to the last couple of events.  "It doesn't matter on when you score your points," said Welsh. "We lived off the bulk we accumulated early in the meet." Welsh described the victories by both Irish teams as a confi­dence builder, which is espe­cially important because there are two more championship meets left for each team. "It's good to know that our training program is right on schedule," Welsh noted. "The rest of our meets should be very exciting."  Twiggs captures first pro victory Associated Press struggled to a l-over-par 73 to on the 7,021-yard Torrey Pines finish in a second-place tie at South course. SAN DIEGO--Greg Twiggs 273 with Mark Wiebe, Brad shot 3-under-par 69 Sunday for Faxon and Mark O'Meara, who His 1-under-par 35 on the a two-stroke victory in the matched Sunday's best round front nine left him tied at 15­$700,000 San Diego Open and his with a 6-under-pai:' 66. under with Wiebe, who fol­first win in five years on the Tied for sixth at 274 was Sam lowed a bogey at the fourth hole PGA tour. Randolph, John McComish and with two straight birdies. Twiggs, who carded a four­Dan Forsman. day 271 total at Torrey Pines Twiggs, who took the lead for Golf Course, earned $126,000 Twiggs, whose previous best good with a birdie on the 373­for the win. finish was a tie for third in the yard lOth, matched Wiebe's Third-round leader Steve 1985 Greater Milwaukee Open, birdie on the par-513th to main­Elkington of Australia had five birdies and two bogeys tain a one-shot lead at 17-under.  - 


The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 
3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The 
charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 TyplnlfWordprocasslng 237-1949 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009.  LOST:Gold FRAME GLASSES since 1AIB please contact Carla at 4803 LOST:A BROWN PEN CASE(RENOMA)WITH 4 PENS(PERl<ER)ON 14TH IN O'SHAUGHNESS OR LAW SCOOL.I LOVE THEM !IF FOUND PLEASE CALL KEIKO(INT'L PEACE HOUSE 283· 3943.PLESE HELP POOR JAPANESEII FOUND: A pair of purple ladies mittens in the ladies restroom at the Comp·Math Bldg. Mn.night. Call 3688 to identify.  NO Law school students to be reps lor Kaplan-SMH Bar Review courses. Earn free bar review course plus SS's. Call 272-4135. Ask for Sue. COUNSELORS-Girls camp in Maine. Good sal,room & bd.,travel allowance, beautiful modern facility,must love children and be able to teach one of the following:Tennis, W.S.T.,Sailing Waterski,Softbaii,Basketball, Soc­cer,LaCrosse,A&C,Photography, Horse­back,Dance,Piano,Drama,Ropes Camp Craft,Gymnastics.Call or write:Camp Vega, Box 1771 Duxbury, Mass. 02332 (617)934·6536  TICKETS NEED GRADUATION '!'IX. If you only need 2 or 3 & are willing to apply for more, I will pay$$. Call Pete at 277·4165 PERSONALS Mike, did you have a nice weekend?  Going to NEW YORK? Have one round­trip,Chicago-NY-Chicago,First-class open date ticket. Interested? Call Bert, X4115 I need a ride near CLEVELAND for spring break.Anyone going east on rt 80 please call Brian x2124 will share $$. Thank you St. Jude for the ordination of a female liberal black bishop. Now let's try for one in the Roman church.  St. Joseph's Medical Center Is cur­rently accepting applications for Playcare Providers In our earty parent­Ing program. Responsibilities Include providing care lor young children while parents attand earty parenting classes. SucceSBiul candidates muat have prior experience In child care. Own transportation to report to varying locations. High school graduate preferred. AM, afternoon and earty PM available. Clasaes are two hours long. Inquire In person at St. Joseph's Employment Olflce, Pavilion II, Suite 092, 707 E. Cedar, SB. We are an equal opportunity employ­er.  
NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for CASHII Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK BOB Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 233·2342 SAVE TIME! 'How To Report On a Book You Haven't Actually Read.' Send $10: Box 15071 Columbus, OH 43215 MOM MOM MOM MOM! THANKS FOR A GREAT JPW WEEKEND!  Can't read this ad? I found your glasses !I Found: Gold wire-rimmed glasses in hard black case on February 9th in rm. 204 Nieuwland Science HaiL Call x3781 and see again! LOST! Set of keys on wooden name keychain, 2-9. evening, between O'Shag and BP. PLEASE call x1363, Colleen, w'any info, ASAP!! Lost: black Casio digital watch (it was in a tan glasses case); please call Mark at x1409. No questions asked. Reward.  ································································ $$$ I NEED 5 LOUISVILLE TICKETS $$$ 283·2814 DAY /271-8639 NIGHT ································································ HELP! Ride needed to and from Boston area for spring break. Call Katie X1335. WANTED· LEADERS: EARN ARMY ROTC SCHOLARSHIPS THIS SUMMER Contact Maj. Warrick 239-6264 SUMMER JOBSt! Two of Mlnnnesots' finest summer youth camps seek cot­lege students to work as counselors and lnatructore In sailing and English end Weatern rtdlng. Employment from June 8 thru August 13. For an appli­cation call 1-800-451-5270 ext. 410  Bin H LAW SCHOOL: Start your Bar Review early. Kaplan-SMH reviews to many states available hers In South Bend. Transfer back home for summer. Dis­counts lor Kaplan LSAT alumni. Reserve before March 2 Call272-4135. Ask lor Sue. SUMMER JOBS ALL LANO!WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-1011-343-8373  Someone who is NOT AFRAID TO BE HIMSELF would like to thank whoever sent me the card. Call me and let me know who you are! I desperately need ride back to ND from NJ on 3-12. Peter x2124 will share dri..Sxp. ATTN: SMC FRESHMEN '92 VOTE LIZ VANDERSARL-PRES FRANNIE CAPPELLERI-VICE MARIA ALVAREZ-SEC DEBBIE WUNDER-TREAS  I need a ride to Rochester, N.Y. on March 3 or 4 and lbr a return ride to N.D. on March 6 or 7. If you can help me out, call x1985 or x2876 (ask for Beth) I will help with any expenses I EASTER BREAK IN PHOENIX 4 nonstop confirmed round trip tix with boarding passes, O'hare to Phoenix on American Airlines. Leave Good Friday(324), retum 31.31. $844 for all 4. Elkhart, 293·4700, 8 am-5 pm, M-F SMC CLASS OF 90 DOCTOR UP YOUR SENIOR YEAR!! VOTE AMORE, EH· RET, BLONG, VITALE SENIOR CLASS OFFICERS  
Love, 363 60 5090 ( LOST/FOUND I LOST: 30 Macintosh diskettes from my  FORRENT I I FOR SALE FOUR FLAGS FARM BED 'N BREAK­'---.­_F_O_R_D_E-SC_O_R_T_G_T_.J 85 FAST JUST 20 MINS. FROM ND.IDEAL 5 SPEED,BLACK,AIR,CASSETTE FOR ALL NO ACT1VmES. RESERVE STEREO,MICHELINS NOW FOR ALL UPCOMING EVENTS. ,55750 616-471-5711. 277·8892  Thanks to everyone who cheered on Cat­holics in Bad Standing last Sat. in Theodore's. You were our best audience ever! ovERseiis.....:ioiis.$~2000.....;;;~: Summer,Yr.round.AII Countrtes,AII fields. Free Info. Wrtte IJC, PO Bx 52­IN04, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625.t:i·;;........................................................  SMC JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS VOTE VOTE WEDNESDAY "RYAN ' SCULLY ' FARLEY MCGOWAN AT THE DINING HALL ................................................................ HELPIII need a ride to ATLANTA lor  SNUGGLEBUNNY (HANK MOON), HAPPY BELATED VALENTINE'S DAY!! WITH PASSIONATE LOVE FROM YOUR FIANCE. (GOTCHAll) WENDY DILLON IS GOING TO HAVE AN AWESOME BIRTHDAY BECAUSE: ·that's what her date said last night! -she likes to fish -thoughts of Bill Kuda still "Dirty Dance" in her head -the black strap­ 
car in C1. The importance of those disks cannot be exagerated. $$$ for informa­tion leading to the retum of them. Please  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219­291-7153.  ································································ SUMMER JOBS ALL LANO!WATER SPORTS  Spring Break!Will help wijh penses!Call Amy 284-5493.  gas  ex·  less is proof that she's wild -because nm Foley and Marquette await her -Sunshine likes to Chow and Chunck -The hunt for  
call II 4936 or 289-1628. Or if you already have them, please return them to 230 Knott Hall. No questions asked.  HOUSES FOR STUDENTS NEAR N.D. 683-8889-277-3097.  NEED AIRLINE TICKETI I'M SELLING ROUNDTRIP PASS TO ANYWHERE PIEDMONT FL YS IN U.S. CALL DIEGO 283-4050  PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-100-343-8373 ADOPTION  c;~;;;~·rid~-~h·~~-·~~-~h~··;;~~:..A~~··;~~ going to Wisconsin for Spring Break? $25 round trip to Milwaukee Sign up Wed., Feb. 22, 9:00 pm in main floor lobby of La Fortune. Questions-call Sarah (x3693) or Jim (x401 0)  Dillon Branley is on ·She found her loving feeling at Zelda's ·The Miami w-end gave her a dancing debut -She's the most fun friend we have! HAPPY BIRTHDAY MIMOI HERE'S  
LOST: Brown wallet at the Rock on Friday. Call Chris x1851 or return to Rock. Reward-no questions!! LOST: SOMEONE TOOK MY RED CW  WANTED COUNSELORS-Boys camp in Berkshire  79 MIDGET EXC. COND. LOW MILAGE 294-5699  Loving,secure married couple unable to conceive seek to adopt. Can pay le­gal,medical exp. Pis call collect Chris & Susan, 703276-9751 Completely con­fidential.  ································································ Alter Hours: An experience in Rock and Roll diversity Sat. Feb. 25 at The Under­ground \  YOUR PERSONAL-YOU NEVER READ THE PERSONALS, FO SURPRISE! DO YOU HAVE THE NUMBER FOR THAT BEAUTY SCHOOL? I MIGHT NEED THAT!! love, jules  
SKI JACKET FROM THE CCE SATUR­ Mts., West. Mass. Good Sal.,room &  '83 CHEVY IMPALA 4 doors excellent  PHIL ROJAS  
DAY  NIGHT.  PLEASE  RETURN  IT  bd,travel  allowance,  beautiful  modern  cond. $1500 CALL 277 7291  ADOPTION-Caring, financially secure  you're a pint-sized dork, grow up  SCRUBS!!  
SINCE IT'S MY ONLY JACKET AND I  facility ,must love children & be able to  couple  of Irish and Swedish ancestry  BIZ HESKETT  SCRUBS!!  
CAN'T AFFORD A NEW ONE I'Ll AS­ teach  one  ot  the  following:  Tennis,  GORGEOUS 78 DATSUN 2BOZ. $2300.  wish to love, cherish, and raise your new­ SCRUBSII  
SUME IT WAS AN HONEST MISTAKE.  W.S.I.,Sailing  234-2579  born child. legal and confidential. Please  JADE GREEN TOPS AND BOTTOMS  
I'LL EVEN QIVE A REWARD FOR THE  Waterski,Basebaii,Basketbaii,Soccer  call Unda and Craig COLLECT: 212-877­ PHIL ROJAS· This death wish will come  CALL TAMMY 284-5134  
JACKET OR INFORMATION WHERE IT  LaCrosse,Wood,A&C,Rocketry, Photog­ OPPORTUNITYIIII Ticket For Sale South  3574  true. ·BILL PICHT  
lSI PLEASE CALL SEAN-4784.  raphy,Archery,Pioneering,  Bend-Dumam (NC),March 8,89, (1 way)  NO JUNIOR FORMAL· Did you find a  
································································  Ropes,Piano,Drama.Call or write: Camp  $ SOI,Call Volker 288-7929  Have to be here lor Break? Make $sl  FLASH! Fa~os club AI w~h school  necklace (with a broken clasp) in your  
LOST-BLACK CUMMERBUND AT TAl-MILITARY FORMALII call BRET x1389  Winadu,5 Glen La.,Mamaroneck, 10543. (914)381·5983  NY  ~;;,~j-~j;~;;;;·j;;;·~~j~'~ii':i~y-~4662''""''  Matt King, a blind student, needs readers both now and over breek. Call 1681.  horns Ill  sportcoat afterwards? H so, please caH 284-5405.  


page 12 The Observer Monday, February 20, 1989 
Irish rout Central Michigan 
Victory ends three-year drought for wrestling squad 
By GREG 
SCHECKENBACH 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team ended a three-year drought Friday night against Central Michigan with a 38-6 drubbing in the Joyce ACC. Before this season, the Irish were 0-3 against the Chippewas in the series that dates back to 1985. 
Notre Dame improved its dual-meet record to 9-3 while CMU dropped to 3-12. The vic­tory gives the Irish their best dual meet record since coach Fran McCann took the job five years ago. 

-The match started out on a sour note for Notre Dame as freshman Mike Sheehy lost to a more experienced wrestler 6­
o. He was filling in for junior Andy Radenbaugh who is still recovering from bronchitis. At this point, the match looked like it could be close. 
Then the hammer fell right on top of the Chippewas. fresh­man Marcus Gowens recorded his second pin of the year for the Irish at the 126 pound level, improving his record to 21-12. 
"I've got my head on straight now," said Gowens. "If I wrestle up to my potential and stay mentally prepared there is no saying what I can do." 

At 134 pounds, senior Jerry Durso abused an overmatched freshman opponent in record­ing his lOth pin of the year. Durso (29-4) won his match in only 3:22 which put the Irish up 
for good at 12-6. 
Pat Boyd, after nearly pin­ning his opponent in the first period, won by technical fall in the third period. He improved his record to 18-4. Sophomore Todd Layton added to the Irish domination with a 11-4 decision over a talented CMU opponent. This victory put Notre Dame up 20-3 in what was beginning to look like a blowout. 
The roommate duo of Mark Gerardi and Todd Tomazic brought home victories in the 158 and 167 pound divisions respectively. Gerardi won 5-l in a slow-moving match while Tomazic pinned his opponent in just under four minutes. Al­though starting off slowly, Tomazic was really pleased with his recent success on the mat. 
"This is the best I've wrestled in any span," stated Tomazic. "My confidence is really high." 
In the biggest match of the night, senior Chris Geneser avenged a pin last year in beating Kevin Vogel 13-6. The score was much closer then it actually shows. Geneser re­corded seven points in the last minute to run away with a hard-earned victory. This win put the Irish up 32-6. 
At 190 pounds, Curt Engler lost a close match 13-8 to Larry Luft. In the heavyweight divi­sion, Chuck Weaver pinned his second opponent in making the final score 38-6. 
"Chuck has been wrestling very well lately," said McCann. "Our whole team is priming for the regionals and they should be ready." 
When asked if his team per­formed well, McCann was not exactly thrilled. 
"We should have beaten them worse. Our program is at the level where it can compete against the elite and destroy the smaller programs." 
Notre Dame will end its dual meet season Saturday against Marquette. The week after is the Western Regionals held in Des Moines, Iowa. The Irish will be looking to improve on last years six national tourna­ment qualifiers. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Sacramento Kings have traded veteran center LaSalle Thompson and guard Randy Wittman to the In­diana Pacers for Wayman Tisdale, a Sacramento radio station and an Indianapolis newspaper reported Sunday. Wittman and Tisdale confirmed the trade to the In­dianapolis Star in a story to be printed in Monday's edi­tions. -The Observer 
Winterfest volleyball signups are today through Friday at the LaFortune information desk. People can sign up individually or as a six-person team. All games are Saturday, Feb. 25., in the afternoon. Student Union Board is sponsoring the event. -The Observer 
Off-Campus lacrosse players wanting to play for the Interhall team should attend a brief meeting Tuesday at 5 p.m. in the hockey bleachers of the Joyce ACC. Anyone who cannot attend should call Bill at 287-5758. -The Obser­ver 
A squash clinic with Notre Dame tennis coach Bob Bayliss, former squash coach at MIT and Navy, today at 4:30p.m. on court one of the Joyce ACC. -The Observer 
The Cheerleading Team will have an informational meeting today for anyone interested in trying out for the 1989-90 Cheerleading Team (either as a cheerleader or the leprechaun). Please bring proof of insurance. The meeting will take place at 8 p.m. in the football auditorium of the Joyce ACC. There will also be meetings Wednesday and Thursday. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC women's lacrosse team will hold its first practice today at the Angela Athletic Facility. Please be there by 6:45 p.m. and remember to bring $5 for club dues and sticks if you have them. -The Observer 

The ND hockey team hosts the Western Michigan Broncos Tuesday at 7:30 in the Joyce ACC. It will be the last game of the season for the Irish icers. -The Observer 
-Bengals 
1 continued from page 16 
go" Boulos in the first 42 seconds of the third round to advance to the semi-finals. 
In the Cruiserweight divi­sion, returning champion Chris "Boom Boom" Balint rode Matt "The Mule" Muller until 
1:05 in the second round when the referee stopped the contest in his favor. 
The two other returning champions, super heavyweight champ Brian Shannon and super cruiserweight champion William "The Annhilator" Angrick, recieved byes to the semi-finals. 
BAHAMA ADVENTURE 
ORGANIZER GOES FREE SPRING BREAK SPECIAL 
YOU HAVE YOUR OWN SAl LBOA T WITH CAPTAIN. SAIL TO NASSAU. ISLAND HOPPING BOAT LEAVES MIAMI. FL. AT MIDNIGHT SATURDAY RETURNS AT 8 00 A.M. NEXT SATURDAY ONE WEEK WITH MI:::ALS AND ALL EXPENSES. 
$350.00 PER PERSON.NO EXTRAS BOATS SLEEP FROM TEN TO TWENTY YOU MUST CHARTER 
WHOLE BOAT NO PASSPORT 
REQUIRED CONTACT BAREFOOT ISLAND CRUISJOS 
P.O. BOX 1462. MIAMI. FL 33101 
-
069
305-379-8
#=~=========::::tt 

One of the best fights of the with the Bengal Bouts for ten day occured in the junior mid­years. dleweight division between The semifinals of the Bengals Greg "Spaz" Branch and Lee take place on Wednesday night "The Carolina Kid" Whitman. at 8 p.m. According to Sean In this contest, the margin of McCormack, semi-final action victory was one point among will be the one of the best to­five judges for Branch, a Pit­date. tsburgh native. "Unquestionably, every 
Notre Dame kid should come 
"That fight was as good a out to the semis," said McCor­fight as anybody will see on mack. 1'It is going to be a su­Friday night," said Walter pernight. They will be the best Roger, who has been affiliated semifinals ever.'' 
..an ..........
-=======~~···· .....~....=========, 
ATTENTION BSNs! MAKE YOUR EDUCATION 
COUNT... 

... as afully qualified Air Force nurse specialist. You'll receive excellent pay and benefits plus enjoy opportunities for profes­sional development and service to your country. Call 
USAF NURSE RECRUITING 317-848-5830 COLLECT 
a==-= .... 

--·...-= :>
L-============ ..._. -.
-~E"'~ 



AIR TRAVEL IMMEDIATE RESERVAnONS TICKETS DELIVERED 
255-7272
CALL US NOW FOR BEST PRICES 
"This unique aerial photograph captures all the excitement of our national championship game. Relive the glory of this Fiesta Bowl Classic with a full-color, 20" x 30" commemorative poster­as sanctioned by the Fiesta Bowl:' 
Bruce Skinner, Executive Director, Fiesta Bowl 
Yes, send me (no.) commemorative poster(s) at $15 each, plus $1 postage and handling. (Arizona residents add 6.7% sales tax). Please print. 
Name _________________________________ 
Address ___________________________ 
City _______state ____Zip ____ 
Send check or money order to: 1989 Sunkist Fiesta Bowl Commemorative Poster, 4500 North 32nd St., Suite 100, 
' 

,.-----------~-~ 
Monday, February 20, 1989 The Observer page 13 
Waltrip captures Daytona 500 
Associated Press 
DAYTONA BEACH, FLA. -­Darrell Waltrip ended 16 years of frustration Sunday with a victory in the crash-filled $1.7 million Daytona 500, winning the biggest race of his life by taking perhaps the biggest chance of his career. 
It was a chance that neither Ken Schrader nor Dale Earnhardt was willing to take. 
Waltrip, a three-time Win­ston Cup champion, who had never won the richest and most prestigious race on the NAS­CAR stock car circuit, took the lead four laps from the end and stayed on the track knowing he might not have enough gas to finish. 
The Franklin, Tenn., driver, who now has 74 career vic­tories, drove his Hendrick Motorsports Chevrolet Monte Carlo 53 laps--132.5 miles -­from his last gas stop on lap 147 during a caution period. 
Alan Kulwicki, who led Waltrip starting lap 197, ran out of gas in turn one on Daytona International Speedway's 2.5­mile oval as Waltrip sped past. 
Schrader, who started from the pole, and Earnhardt made quick stops for a splash of gas on lap 188 and it cost them a chance at victory. 
Schrader wound up second, 
7.64 seconds behind, followed by Earnhardt, 1986 winner Geoff Bodine, Phil Parsons, rookie Rick Mast, Kulwicki, Rick Wilson and Terry Labonte. 
Waltrip said he was arguing with crew chief Jeff Hammond on the radio during the last three laps, with Hammond tel­ling him to come in for gas. 
"I didn't know to start with if we could make it," Waltrip said. "Jeff said, 'Nobody can make it.' I said, 'I can make it.' And then I drafted and drafted and drafted." 
The Chevy did not run out of gas. 
The jubilant Waltrip said, "The fuel pressure went down to nothing twice, and it came back up. Somebody gave me some gas, and I don't know who." 
Waltrip, 42, earned a career­high $184,400, while Schrader received $182,400. 

Happy 19, Kathy! 
We love you! 
Chrissy, Kristie, 
Carolyn, Angela, 
and Shannon 
..'!:''. 
# 1 EVENT OF SPRING 
WE WANT YOU ••
'' 
GET INVOLVED!! BE CREATIVE!! LET'S PARTY!! 
PICK UP A GOLD FORM ... FILL IT OUT ... 
LEAVE IT WITH THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT SECRETARY 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE BY MONDAY FEB 20 
QUESTIONS ... CALL CHRIS X1204 
He averaged 148.466 mph in the race slowed by seven cau­tion flags for 30 laps. 
The wildest crash of the wreck-filled day came on lap 72, ignited when Jody Ridley, the relief driver for injured defending Winston Cup cham­pion Bill Elliott, struck the wall in turn two after cutting down 
a tire.  
Cars  scattered  across  the  
track,  some  spinning  and  
others  darting  through  the  

melee. At least 10 cars were in­volved and five drivers--Rid­ley, Dale Jarrett, Chad Little, Rodney Combs and Lake Speed--were done for the day. 
Little suffered a cut on the left foot and Combs was taken to Halifax Medical Center with a concussion. None of the other drivers was injured. 
Seven-time Daytona 500 win­ner Richard Petty, who failed to qualify for the race and was a provisional starter, ran as high as lOth on lap 54 before tire problems knocked him out of contention. 
Houston 
continued from page 16 
and Houston's athletes took ad­vantage of it." 
Forward Richard Hollis led Houston in the first half with nine points and five rebounds. He finished with 15 in both categories. 
Wearing the red uniforms, Houston opened the second half impressively. Derrick Daniels, who finished with 13, scored five quick points as an 8-2 Cougar run tied the score at 43. 
Notre Dame led 51-48 and was on defense with 13: 39 left 
198? 


Sound performances key Belles in victories 
By KRISTINE GREGORY Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basket­ball team exploded both of­fensively and defensively this weekend, as it soundly defeated Taylor College and Rosary College at home to improve its record to 13-6 overall. 
Defense was the key Sat­urday as the Belles handed Taylor College, one of the top tearris in the district, its seventh loss by a score of 66­52. 
Freshman Janet Libbing played an impressive game as she netted a high of 17 points and ripped down a high of eight rebounds. Junior Dawn Brohman con­tributed 12 points. Sopho­more Linda Garrett and senior Jennifer Harte each grabbed seven rebounds, while junior Julie Radke had eight assists and six steals for the Belles. 
Things only got better for the Belles on Sunday as they easily defeated Rosary Col­lege 91-69. In their best of­fensive game of the season, the Belles shot 67 percent from the field and had a total of 24 assists. 
Julie Radke came alive with 21 points, 10 assists and three steals to lead the Belles offensively. Brohman contributed 17 points while freshman Cathy Restovich added 14 points and Harte 10. Libbing again had high rebounds with seven while Amy Baranko, Harte and Radke each grabbed five. 
"We had a really nice weekend," said Belles' co­ach Marvin Wood, "We really needed it since we've struggled the last couple of weekends." 
The Belles finish their season by traveling to Purdue University-Calumet on Thursday and by hosting University of Michigan­Dearborn on Saturday. 

when Houston coach Pat game by shooting 10-of-24 on Foster was hit with a technical three-point shots (7-of-16 in the foul. Foster had been com­second half). The 10 three­plaining to the officials excess­pointers tied the record set ear­ively in the second half. lier in the year by Valparaiso 
"The technical hurt tremen­for number of three-point shots dously because we were on of­made against Notre Dame. fense at the time," said Foster. Chaney, who led the Cougars "The officiating, in my opinion, with 22 points, shot 5-of-11 from was highly controversial." outside the stripe and 2-of-8 in­
Mter not going to the line side it. once in the first half, Notre Dame shot 21-of-24 on foul shots "Houston's. a team you can't in the final 20 minutes. take lightly," said Phelps.
Notre Dame converted the "They are an excellent three­technical into four points. point shooting team, and theyFredrick made the two free have excellent athletes." throws, and Ellis slammed in an alley-oop pass from Bennett The Irish went on a five-point on the following possession, spurt to retake the lead. Hous­giving the Irish a 55-48 lead. ton, which never led, came as 
The lead did not last long, as close as 72-71 when Ellis was Houston went on a 10-3 run that injured. From there, the Irish tied the score at 58 with 11:25 went on an 8-1 run and clinched left. The Cougars stayed in the the victory . 
You've lived the National Championship ... Now Get the Video 


relive the of the '88 Championship Season with the official Athletic Department Highlight Video Cassette­" They Wanted to Win " *action from all 12 victories *interviews with Lou and the boys *narrated by Harry Kalas 
all for $29.95 make the memories last a lifetime 
*to order call 283-7356 or send check or money order to Athletic Marketing Office JoyceACC Notre Dame, IN 46556 please specify Beta or VHS 
APWORKS 

page 14 The Observer Monday, February 20, 1989 
Edwards lifts Hoosiers over Michigan at buzzer 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON --Jay Ed­wards didn't actually see his 3­point shot that allowed No. 9 Indiana to beat No. 13 Michigan at the buzzer, but 17,311 fans let him know the result. 
"I didn't see the shot, but I heard everybody scream," he said after the Hoosiers snatched a 76-75 Big Ten vic­tory Sunday, stretching their conference lead· to three games over Illinois with their 15th con­secutive home court triumph. "I couldn't believe it at first, I'm just now realizing what happened." 
Michigan's Rumeal Robin­son; who led the Wolverines with 24 points, knew immedi­ately what had happened and he didn't like it. 
"We had the game in our hands," he said. "A referee call 
Fredrick 
continued from page 16 
really didn't notice it, except when you're picking up your own number when the ball's coming down the court. It was definitely uncomfortable when they came out in red (in the second half) . " 
Fredrick has been battling the flu since Thursday, when he went to the infirmary for a throat culture. Nevertheless, he insisted on playing Sunday against the Cougars, and logged 33 minutes of playing time, second only to Jamere Jackson's 36. 
"I'll find out tomorrow (Monday) what I have," said Fredrick. "It's not going to change anything. As long as my wrist is all right, I can play. My throat doesn't bother my shot." 
Fredrick, who led all scorers with a career-high 25 points, left the game for a quick breat­her with 5: 48 remaining in the second half. He returned 10 seconds later, with Notre Dame clinging to a 70-69 lead, to spark a 10-3 run that dis­tanced the Irish from a Houston team that just wouldn't quit. 
Fredrick first nailed a 12-foot jumper at 14:49 to extend Notre in a crucial game like this is what will give them (Indiana) the Big Ten championship." 

The Hoosiers, 21-5, are 11-1 in conference play with six games remaining. Illinois is second at 8-4. Michigan, 19-5, fell into a tie with Iowa for third at 7··5. 
Edwards finished with 23 points, including 13 in the game's final8:48, after getting just four in the first half. He also hit three out of four foul shots in the final 1 : 22 to keep the Hoosiers close after Mic­hig;;m led 75-71 on a 3-pointer by Sean Higgins. 
Michigan coach Bill Frieder refused to discuss the officials' call. 
"I'll get ripped if I say it was good because people will say I'm not standing up for my team, and I'll get ripped if I say it wasn't good because they'll say I was making ex­cuses," he said. 
Glen Rice might have been looking for an excuse when he capped a poor performance by missing Michigan's final shot. The Wolverines led 75-73 when Rice misfired. Eric Anderson grabbed the rebound for In­diana with nine seconds left to set up Edwards' 24-foot jumper. 
Rice entered the game as the Big Ten's leading scorer with 
26.4 points per game. But he sat out the final 3:31 of the first half after picking up his third foul. He started the second half, but went back to the bench with four fouls just 62 seconds into the period. Frieder kept Rice, who scored only seven points, on the bench until there was only 8:48 to play. 
Rice would not talk to 
Dame's lead to 74-71. Just over in a certain situation." two minutes later, he canned Fredrick started things with another jumper to run the Irish a bang in the first half, nailing lead to 78-72. He then hit his a three-point shot from the left last four foul shots to put the side to stake Notre Dame to a game away in the closing 7-3 lead less than two minutes minutes. into the ballgame. 
"At the end, Joe Fredrick He hit a straight-away was fighting the flu, and we jumper at 3: 56 to give the Irish took him out for the rest," said a six-point cusion at 14-8, then Phelps .. "When he went back converted another three­in, I told him to take over, and pointer off a nice feed from Tim he did just that at the end." Singleton at the six minute 
"Coach realized I was tired mark. A baseline jumper 27 and he pulled me out," said seconds later constituted Fredrick. "He told me, 'You've Fredrick's last points of the got to be ready for the stretch half. drive,'. He told me to take the ..--~!"!'!!!~'!!"!!!!~""'!""'!~~-..., 
game over, so that's what I tried to do. Sometimes he has more confidence in me than I 
have in myself." 
F'redrick's 25 points exceeded his personal best of 24, set Thursday night against LaSalle. Not surprisingly, 15 of those points came in the second 
half, something that has be­come Fredrick's calling card of late. · "Towards the end of the game, I have to give the other 
players credit because they.'ve 
looked for me in that situa­
tion," said Fredrick. "When I shoot the ball in a close game like that, I don't feel like there's any extra pressure. I don't feel like I have to score 
M 
A T H 
1 
0 
1 

A public service message from The Observer 
Pre-Law Societ}' 

pting Applications for: 
President Vice-President Treasurer Secretary I News Letter Editor 
Applications can be picked up at 101 O'Shaughnessy and returned by Feb 24 
SUMMER JOBS 
NOW ACCEPTING 
APPLICATIONS 
Large resort on the East entrance 
to Glacier National Park, Montana 
looking for students interested in 
summer employment for the 
following positions: 

waitrons, bartenders, kitchen help, 
cooks, retail clerks, maids, 
cashiers, cocktail waitrons, desk 
clerks, office personnel, 
maintenance, fuel attendants, 
St. Mary RB, nc. is an equal opportunity employer 
A representative will be interviewing February 20 and 21st from 8:00am to 5 pm in the Career and Placement Service Office. Please sign up for an appointment 
reporters after the game. 
Coach Bob Knight had praise for all aspects of Indiana's per­formance. 
"We played better than I thought we could, especially for how well Michigan played," he said. 
Robinson made a 3-pointer to tie the game at 63 with eight minutes to go. He had two more baskets as Michigan outscored Indiana 7-6 until a free throw 
by Lyndon Jones tied the game 
again at 70 with 1:52 remain­
ing. 
The Wolverines trailed 42-37 

at halftime, but opened the 
second half with a 13-7 run to 
lead 50-49 with 14:55 to play. 
"We work hard for 20 minutes jn the first half to get a five-p6int lead and it was gone in the first five minutes of the second half,'' Knight said. 
The teams traded baskets for nearly five minutes with nei­ther holding more than a one­point advantage when a free throw by Edwards tied the game at 60 with 8:48 to play. 
The game was tied six .times 
in the first half. The Hoosiers 
got their halftime lead when 
Jones scored six of their nine 
points in the final2:20. He had 
two baskets and two free 
throws and Jeff Oliphant came 
off the bench to hit a 3-pointer 
in the spurt. 
Michigan used a a 12-5 run to 
go ahead 27-21 with 8: 14 left, 
the largest lead of the half. 
Joe Hillman, who watched 
Keith Smart's jumper win the 
1987 national championship for 
Indiana, rated Edwards' shot 
equally as satisfying. 
"This was right up there with 
all of them. It was great,'' he 
said. 


NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION & THEAT!?E presents 
THEPOWERANDTHEGLORY 
April 19,20,21,22,23 

ANYONE INTERESTED IN WOfl.KING ON THE PRODUCTION CREW OF THE PLAY IS IN.VITED TO AN ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING. TUESDAY FEB. 21 4:3.0 p.m. SCENOGRAPHY LAB, 1st FLOOR, WASHINGTON HALL. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 239-7054. 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Accent Copy Editors (3) 
Please contact Beth Healy at 283-1264 or John Blasi at 283-2163 or 239-5303 
/Ve Lo"'e C/o~ o~ !Jar.( 8;11 & e~f<'~~ 

fF-R--E-E--~;~;;;;;~;;;-1
I STUDENTS WHO NEED I 
:MONEY FOR COLLEGE : 
I Every Student Is Eligible for Some Type of Financial I 
I Aid Regardless of Grades or Parental Income. I 1 · We have a data bank of over 200,000 listings of scholarships, fel-I lowshlps, grants, and loans, representing over $10 billion in private II sector funding. . .1 • Many scholarships are given to students based on thet~ academic 1 
I 
interests, career plans, family heritage and place of res1dence. II There's money available for students who have been newspaper1 carriers, grocery clert<s, cheerleaders, non-smokers ... etc. 1 I • Results GUARANTEED. I 
CALL For A ·Free Brochure ·-~I I ANYTIME 800) 346-6401 fi__jl 
~-------------------~ 




----------~ 

Monday, February 20, 1989 
CAMPUS 
7:00 p.m. Notre Dame Communication and Theatre film "Point Blank," directed by John Boorman, Annenberg Auditorium. 
9:00p.m. Notre dame Communication and Theatre film "The Life and Times of Rosie the Riveter,'' directed by Connie Field, Annenber Auditorium. 
1 LECTURE CIRCUIT 
11 :30 a.m. Economics department workshop "Panic Cycles and Inflation," by Scott Zachary, Notre Dame graduate stu­dent, Room 131 Decio Faculty Hall. 
Noon Law SchooWear of Cultural Diversity presentation"Iran Contra and the Constitution," by Louis Stokes, Ohio Congressman, Law School auditorium. 
4:30p.m. College of science lecture "Metal Alkoxides: Models for Metal Oxides, Structural Relationships," by Malcolm Chisholm, Indiana University, Room 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
DINNER MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Law School Grill Deli Bar 
Fried Chicken 
Meatless Baked Ziti 
Short Ribs 
VOLLEYBALL TOURNAMENT 2:05am ANIMAL HOUSE 
12-4pm, SOUTH QUAD, 4:00am LIFE OF BRIAN. SIGN UPS IN LaFORTUNE INFO. DESK AT CUSHING SIGN UP INDIVIDUALLY OR IN TEAMS 
page 15
The Observer 

NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 25 "Rosamond" 46 Prolific auth. composer 48 Palestinian sect
1 Kind of terrier 26 Hideous ones member 6 Some are fine 29 Hitchcock's 50 Dog 10 Actor Badel 
thirty-nine items 52 Lloyd Douglas 14 An Asian capital 31 Family of the novel subject 15 Savage Island author of "Hard 56 Clark Kent's Cash" inamorata
16 Frank's place 32 Judd Hirsch 57 "Summer and 
17lnstrument vehicle Smoke" heroine 
played by Schweitzer 33 But, to Cicero 58 Put on TV 
36 S Sardinian town 59 Concerning 
East city 37 Gauche 60 Earth's · · inheritors 
18 Ancient Middle 
19 Reclined 39 Guided 61 Dog
20 Do a garden 40 Listen 62 Hammer part 
chore 43 Light 63 Being: Lat.
21 Dog 44 "M" star 64 Obliterate23 Rays 45 Oscillate 
DOWN ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
1 Dog 2 Swiss river 3 "Picnic" 
playwright 4 Where to find a 
shoulder 5 Author Ana·ls 6Puton­
(pretend) 7 Most affluent 8 Visitor traveling 
in ltalia 90oze .;.,..r:~~-=:+=-t 10 Mortimer and 
Stella .,i,~-;=+:::-+=-1~~--.. 11 Ascertain -.:;....o.;..;..L;;;..O~"""'"""'"-12 Similar 
Berke Breathed 

Michael F. Muldoon 
WINTERFEST ICE SKATING, l0:30-l2pm FREE SKATES & ADMISSION W/STUDENT ID FREE COOKIES & COCOA 
SAT: ALL NIGHT MOVIES -12:30am for $1 :00 
12:30am ATIACK OF THE KILLER TOMATOES 
• 


By STEVE MEGARGEE  cause of today's loss. I just  
Assistant Sports Editor  wouldn't let that happen."  
Before leaving the game, El­ 
LaPhonso Ellis returned to  lis had one of his best outings  
his early-season scoring form  of the season with 21 points,  
in Notre Dame's 89-80 win over  five rebounds and two blocked  
Houston Sunday at the Joyce  shots. Those 21 points were the  
ACG.  most Ellis had scored since his  
But it was Notre Dame's abil­ 24-point performance in an 82­ 
ity to play without Ellis that  79 win over UCLA Jan. 14.  
may have made the difference.  "I was just trying to be a  
The Irish led 72-69 with 5: 27  little more active offensively,"  
remaining when Ellis fouled  said Ellis. "They (coaches and  
and was elbowed by Houston's  teammates) had been getting  
Craig Upchurch, keeping Notre  on me pretty much all week for  
Dame's freshman standout on  passing off open shots."  
the sidelines for the rest of the  Houston 05-11), which was  
game. Upchurch, one of Ellis'  coming off an 82-66 loss at  
high school rivals from St.  Texas Christian Saturday,  
Louis, cut the lead to 72-71 with  looked anything but ready for  
two subsequent free throws.  Sunday's game at the outset.  
"We knew he wasn't coming  'I'he Cougars lost their jerseys  
back, and we were going to  lost in an airport exchange  
miss his scoring strength in­ mixup and wore Notre Dame's  
side," said junior center Keith  gold jerseys during the first  
Robinson. "We had to play with  half.  
a little more intensity."  The Cougars switched to  
Notre Dame (16-5) did just  their normal red jerseys for the  
that, going on an 8-1 run and  second half, while Notre Dame  
outscoring Houston 17-9 for the  wore its white uniforms  
remainder of the game.  throughout the game.  
Ellis, who received six  "It was like we weren't even  
stitches underneath his right  plpying Houston," said fresh­The win Improved the Irish to 16-5.  
eyelid, should return for Tues­ man guard Elmer Bennett,  
day's game at Dayton.  who scored eight points with  
Junior co-captain Joe  five assists. "It was more like  
Fredrick provided the offense during that time, scoring 10 of his game-high 25 points after  an intrasquad scrimmage. By FRANK PASTOROnce they got out in the red uni­Sports Writer forms, then it was Houston."  
Ellis' injury. Freshman Keith Tower replaced Ellis and kept the Cougars from exploit­ing the absence of his class­mate. Houston continually went after Tower on offense in the closing minutes, but only fell further behind. "They figured they'd prob­ably go after the young fresh­man who hasn't played in that situation, and take advantage of the situation," said Tower, who scored five points and posted a career-high eight rebounds. "I just played funda­mental defense. "I wasn't going to be the  The Irish proved they could When Joe Fredrick steppedbeat themselves in more ways on the Joyce ACC court beforethan one during the first 20 Sunday's game against Hous­minutes. Notre Dame was ton, he could hardly believe his ahead of the other team in Irish eyes.uniforms for the entire half, At the opposite end of theleading by as many as 10 court he saw Craig Upchurch, points, but Notre Dame's 11 the Cougars' 6-8 forward, don­turnovers and erratic defense ning the same gold unifo~mhad Houston trailing just 41-35 Fredrick has worn for the Inshat halftime. throughout most of the season."We shoot 62 percent, yet A similar sight met the eyes ofwe're only up six," said Irish the other Irish players whencoach Digger Phelps. "We they appeared on the court for didn't do a good job of transi­pre-game warmups. tion defense or overall defense, Houston's equipment did not arrive in time for the tipoff due see HOUSTON, page 13 to a transportation delay, but  
Swimmers  
repeat title  
By MARY GARINO  
Sports Writer  
The women's swim team was  
expected to repeat as cham­ 
pion of the Midwestern Col­ 
legiate Conference, but no one  
thought it would be such a  
wipeout.  
The Irish overwhelmed the  
•  field of five teams and  
dominated the meet, winning  
with a total of 634 points. The  
closest competition was St.  
Louis; 240 points behind.  
Evansville placed third with  
360 points.  
The men's team also placed  
first for the third year in a row,  
but they had a much tougher  
fight from Evansville than was  
anticipated. Last year, the  
Irish won by 200 points, but this  
year the margin of victory was  
cut to 72. Notre Dame accum­ - 
ulated 569 points over the three  The Observer I E.G. Bailey  
day meet, as Evansville came in second (497) and an im- Mlck Meyer connects with a punch to Joe Capko In the quarterfinal round of the Bengal Bouts Sunday. The action continues with the  
see SWIM, page 11  :semifinals Wednesday night.  

~ ~-­

Sports
Monday, February 20, 1989 page 16 
Notre Dame holds off Cougars 
Ramblers 


Irish adjust after Ellis injury 
hand Irish MCC loss 
Special to The Observer 
Loyola shot .643 from the field Saturday night to down the streaking Notre Dame women's basketball team, 108-77, in a Midwestern Col­legiate Conference showdown. 
The win vaulted the Lady Ramblers into a first-place tie with the Irish in the con­ference. Both teams sport identical 9-1 ledgers. 
Sheryl Porter, the confer­ence's leading scorer, did not start the game for Loyola, but freshman Cindy Pruim stepped in and responded with a game-high 24 points. Six Loyola players, including Porter, hit double figures for the Lady Ramblers. 
The two teams were headed in opposite direc­tions before Saturday's game. The Lady Ramblers were coming off a 60-55 loss to Butler Thursday, while the Irish routed St. Louis 78­34 last Saturday. 
Loyola led early, but Notre Dame rallied to cutits scarlet uniforms made their the margin to 41-39 with 1:24 appearance in the second half. 

to play in the half. Loyola,
Once the game began, however, scored 10 un­

however, there was no question answered points to take a 53­
as to the identity of the real Joe 39 advantage into the lock­Fredrick. Notre Dame's junior erroom. The Irish could not 
co-captain stood tall under fire, rally in the second half. 
staving off the flu to lead the Irish to an 89-80 victory over a Sophomore Karen Robin­very talented Houston team. 
son led the Irish with 22But Fredrick's immediate points despite battling the concern had nothing to do with flu. She also dished out eight the outcome of the game. 

assists and pulled down five"I was just thinking, 'Man, I rebounds.

hope he doesn't stretch (the jer­sey) out, because he's bigger 
The loss was the first of than me,' " said Fredrick of 
four road games for the Upchurch. "It was weird, but 
Irish. They play at Tennes­once the jump ball went up, you 
see tonight. 
see FREDRICK, page 14 

Bengal Bouts start to reduce big field 
By BOB MITCHELL 
"The degree of skill was ex­

Sports Writer 
traordinary," said McCor­

As the canvas mural of mack, who worked in the cor­Dominic J. "Nappy'' ners. "With only five weeks to Napolitano hung from the prepare, I was very pleased rafters of Stepan Center, the with the performances of the bell sounded to begin the 59th kids." annual Bengal Bouts. On Sun­As expected, the six return­day, the quarterfinal field of ing champions advanced to the 104 boxers was narrowed to 54 semifinals with relative ease. survivors during eight hours of In the batamweight division, action. three time defending champion 
"I am always amazed of how Michael "High" Noone kept his well the kids performed," said quest for being one of only five Sean McCormack who is in his Bengal Bout boxers to wi~ f?ur ninth year as a Bengal Bout co­championships by demohshmg ach. "People don't realize how James "The Mayor" Dailey in difficult it is to compete and an unanimous decision. how much courage it takes to At the junior middleweight step in between the ropes." level, Doug "Boom Boom" 
The ability displayed by the Biolchini downed Hal "Mongo" boxers is extraordinary consid­Schmitt when the referree ering this year's preparation stopped the contest 23 seconds period was the shortest prepa­into the second round. ration time in the long history Returning light heavyweight 
of the competition. The boxers champion Vance "Pretty Boy" trained for only a five week Becklund clubbed John " period as compared to the nor­mal eight weeks. see BENGALS, page 12 






