
VOL. XXIII NO. 38 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Earthquake rocks N. California, kills 200 
Associated Press 
SAN FHANCISCO-A catas­trophic earthquake rocked Northern California on Tues­day, killing more than 200 peo­ple and injuring 400, caving in bridges and freeways, igniting fires and causing widespread damage to buildings. 
• Bush's quake reaction I page 3 
The quake, which struck dur­ing the evening rush hour, reg­istered 6.9 on the Richter scale and was on the notorious San Andreas Fault. It was the sec­ond deadliest in the nation's history, exceeded only by the 1906 San Francisco earthquake that destroyed much of the city and killed more than 700 peo­ple. 
At least 200 people were crushed to death in their cars when a mile-long section of the upper level of Interstate 880 in Oakland collapsed onto the lower level, according to Marty Boyer, public information offi­cer for Alameda County. 
"This is just a devastating, terrible, terrible situation be­yond everybody's imagination," she said. 
The earthquake forced evac­uation of 60,000 fans from Candlestick Park where they were awaiting Game Three of the World Series. There were no major injuries reported at the stadium. 
A 30-foot section of the upper level of the San Francisco-Oak­land Bay Bridge collapsed onto the lower level, trapping three cars in the wreckage. 
Electricity was cut off 
see QUAKE I page 4 

N.D. 23rd, St. Mary's 7th in U.S. News college rankings 
By JANICE O'LEARY 
News Copy Editor 
The University of Notre Dame is ranked 23rd among the na­tion's best universities and Saint Mary's College is ranked seventh among the midwestern regional colleges, according to a U.S. News and World Report article dated Oct. 16. 
These findings are based on live areas: academic reputation, student selectivity, retention patterns, faculty quality and fi­nancial resources. Much of the objective data was gathered from surveys sent out to the universities themselves. 
The highest overall scnre at­tainable is 100 percent, which was awarded to Yale Univer­sity. Notre Dame received a score of 7 4.2 percent and Saint Mary's received an 86.2 percent in its category. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-President Bush has chosen Antonia Novello, a pediatrician and deputy director of thfl: Na­tional Institute of Child Health and Human Develop­ment, to be surgeon general, administration sources said Tuesday. 
Novello was undergoing routine background checks before her formal nomina­tion, said the sources, who spoke only on condition of ·not being identified. 
If nominated by Bush and confirmed by the Senate, she would become the first woman to hold the post and would succeed C. Everett Koop, the outspoken pedi­atric surgeon who stepped down last month after serv· ing as surgeon gener~ for · seven years. . 
Chase Untermeyer, Bush's personnel ·said 
When asked what his reaction to the U.S. News study is, Fa­ther Edward Malloy, University president, said, "I think we de­serve to be among the top­ranked schools." He also added that U.S. News is rating things they can objectify-the study does not include important aspects such as student resi­dential life and the proud reli­gious tradition. 
In response to the same ques­tion, Saint Mary's College Pres­ident William Hickey stated that he was "quite pleased." Hegarding the College's high standing, Hickey said it is "a real feather in our cap." 
Grades in academic areas were determined by a one being the highest and a 204 the low­est, since the National Univer­sity portion of the survey in­cluded 204 schools. The re­gional colleges survey is han-


Quayle protestors arrested 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1989 . 
-, 
1 
AP Photo 

' 
Demonstrators are taken into custody Monday in Portland after they attempted to enter the hotel where Vice President Dan Quayle was speaking. 
died in the same manner. 
In academic reputation, which is largely subjective, Notre Dame received a grade of 27; under student selectivity the University received an 18; re­tention patterns -a 6; faculty quality -a 53; and financial resources was a low 122. 
Among its midwestern peers, Saint Mary's scores were: aca­demic reputation -a 27, stu­dent selectivity -a 13, reten­tion patterns -a one, faculty quality -an 18, and financial resources -an 8. 
Student selectivity is "based on rejection rates -the recip­rocal of each school's accep­tance rate-for applicants in the 1988-89 school year; aver­age combined scores on the Scholastic· Aptitude Test or American College Testing Assessment, and high school class standings for entering freshman who enrolled in the 1988-89 school year," accord­ing to the U.S. News article. 
Notre Dame's median SAT score is a 580 verbal and a 670 math. Thirty-five percent of this year's freshmen were ranked between one and five in their high school class; 80 per­cent were in the top 10 percent and 96 percent were in the top 20 of their class, said Director of Public Helations and Infor­mation Richard Conklin. 
The mean SAT score for Saint Mary's is a 1025 and 26 per­cent of the freshmen graduated in the top 10 percent of their high school class and over 60 percent in the top quarter of their class. 
"Retention rankings were based on the average percent­age of freshmen in the classes of 1985-87 who became sophomores at that institution and the average percentage of freshmen in the entering classes of 1981, 1982, and 1983 who graduated with bachelor's degrees in 5 years," stated the article. 
Hegarding Notre Dame's re­tention patterns, Dean of the Freshman Year of Studies Emil Hofman stated, "We lose no more than one and a half per­cent (of the freshmen) per year." Approximately 93 per­cent of the freshmen continue to graduate on time, he said. 
Ninety percent of, Saint Mary's freshmen continue as sophomores and more than 80 percent graduate. Retention "has always been real high, due to the type of services offered to the students," stated Brett McLaughlin, public information officer at Saint Mary's. 
see RANKING I page 4 

Duffy discusses situation in N. Ireland 

By DAVID CERTO 
News Staff 
A leading member of the Bri­tish House of Commons drew a large crowd to his lecture Tuesday dealing with the past problems, future difficulties and recent development in Northern Ireland. 
• Britain releases IRA prisoners I page 3 
The Honorable Patrick Duffy, an acknowledged expert on Northern Irish affairs, deliv­ered his lecture entitled "Is Peace Possible in Northern Ire­·land?". The lecture was spon­sored by the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholi­cism. 
Duffy, a Catholic of Irish des­cent, shared his views as a participant with sympathies on both sides of the struggle by discussing his heritage, con­stituency and personal experi­ences. "I am a Brit," Duffy said, yet he was quick to speak out against discriminatory practices implemented by the 
British government. 
To open, Duffy detailed oc­currences in Parliament when the disturbances began in 1969. "I was neither unprepared nor taken by surprise," Duffy stated, "but the Speaker of the House wouldn't listen or set up a committee." 
Duffy then discussed the role of the Royal Army in Northern Ireland. "There is still too much policing by the army, and I want to see them out," Duffy said. "There can only be a polit­ical solution. The army knows it, and many of us have known it for years," Duffy stated. 
However, Duffy does not ad­vocate immediate pullout of British forces. "I have no doubt that Britain would like to get out," he stated, "but I look for a time when the withdrawal of troops will compel the conflict­ing parties to move toward peace." 
Duffy described the nature of the conflict in the region. "The heart of the problem lies be­tween the two tribes-the na­tives and the transplanted," he said, referring to the native Catholics and the Protestant settlers. Duffy then mentioned that "the biggest obstacle to a solution is the distrust of Ire­land by the Protestants. Until that mistrust is resolved, there will be no peace." 
The British government has taken steps to try to resolve the problems, according to Duffy. While voting and housing dis­crimination has largely been al­leviated, the most troubling problems, employment and economic discrimination, have not been solved, he said. 
Despite the death of an aver­age of one British soldier every 12 days, Duffy remains opti­mistic for the future. "I cannot set a timetable, but for the first time in my lifetime I see the requisite dynamics in place," he said. 
These hopes are based largely on the Anglo-Irish agreement, an innovative pact establishing 
see DUFFY I page 4 


WORLD BRIEFS 

East Germany's ruling Politburo held a meeting Tuesday that could determine the fate of Erich Honecker, the 77-year-old leader whose stern rule has been challenged by mass emigration and pro-democracy protest. Demonstrations were reported. in five cities on the eve of the regular weekly meeting, including a march by 120,000 people in Leipzig that was the largest protest since East Germany was founded 40 years ago. 
The Soviet Union's attitude toward human rights has improved dramatically and most political prisoners have been freed, although abuses persist and the picture is "deeply confus­ing," Amnesty International says. In a report published Wednes­day, the worldwide human rights movement says its list of Soviet citizens imprisoned for non-violent exercise of their human rights shrank from 600 three years ago to about 90 in July, and would have been lower but for further arrests. 
Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev wandered like a 
kid in a candy store through displays of IBM computers, Band-Aids and Ritz crackers Tuesday at the first full-fledged U.S. trade show to be held in the Soviet Union. Deprived Soviet consumers soon will enjoy a small flood of such goodies, according to the head of the council that organized the fair. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 

The stock market seesaw tipped downward again Tuesday as the Dow Jones industrial average lost nearly 19 points after briefly falling more than 60 points early in the day. Speculators and program traders yanked around a ma~ket still. deeply shak~n by Friday's 190-point plunge and Monday s 88-pomt recovery m the Dow Jones average of 30 blue-chip industrial stocks. 
Rain offshore, not demonstrators or mechanical problems, stopped the launch of the space shuttle Atlantis and its nuclear­fueled cargo Tuesday. "It looks like the local weather is not going to cooperate, we're going to call it a day," launch director Bob Sieck told the five astronauts who had been lying on their backs in Atlantis' cabin for three hours. NASA said it will try again Wednesday at 12:50 p.m. EDT. The launch opportunity-deter­mined by the relative positions of Earth and Jupiter -extends un­til 1:21 p.m. 
A prediction that 14.5 million America_ns will be in­fected with the AIDS virus by the year 2002 was Issued by the Hudson Institute on Tuesday. The Institute called for strong mea­sures to be taken by government and society to control the epi­demic. "If the nation shrinks from taking responsible action now to contain the ... epidemic, it tacitly will be accepting a disaster of immense proportions," the Hudson study says. "Unche~ke~. AIDS will kill more Americans in the next decade than have died m com­bat in all of the nation's wars since our founding," the study said. 
CAMPUS BRIEFS 

Charge applications for The Copy Shop may be picked up by all student groups any day this week. · 
WEATHER 

Cloudy 

Mostly cloudy today, high near 45. Partly cloudy tonight, Low near 30. Partly cloudy Thursday, high near 45. 
ALMANAC 
On October 18: 

• In 1873: Hepresentatives of Columbia, Princeton, Hutgers and Yale Universities drew up the first rules for intercolle­giate football. • e In 1968: The U.S. Olympic Committee suspended two black athletes, Tommie Smith and John Carlos, for giving the clenched-fist "black power" salute as a protest during a victory ceremony in Mexico City. e In 1969: The federal gov­ernment banned use of the arti­ficial sweeteners known as cy­clamates because of evidence they caused cancer in labora­tory rats. 
lnlormJtiOn comp1led from Observer w~res and Observer stall repcrts 
MARKET UPDATE 
Cio•Ing• for October 17, 1989 

Volume in shares 


224.07 Million 
NYSE Index 
188.89 f-o.87 
S&P Composite 
341.16 +1.69 
Dow Jones Industrials 
2,638. 73 f-18.65 
Precious Metals Gold +$0.20 to $367.40 1oz. 
Silver f-0.7¢ to $5.10 1oz. 
Source: AP 



There is no escape from D.J.-on-the-brain 
Picture this: you're sitting in your room, studying for a midterm. There's no one in your room except for you and your books. The room is completely silent, except for that damn song that keeps running through your head. 
I don't think I'm the only person in the world plagued with this affliction, but sometimes I feel as if my brain is a big sponge whose only pur­pose is to soak up any music I hear and replay the songs over and over again. There must be a radio station in my head, and the D.J. has the weirdest playlist in the world. 
Everyday, a particular song runs through my head and usually stays there all day. Usually it's an oldies tune, that's about the only kind of mu­sic I listen to-my dorm room looks like a shrine to the Beatles. On other occasions, my soul is tormented by some Top 40 tune, and my mind is filled with the sound of drum machines. 
Sometimes the song doesn't go away for days. I'll hear the same song all the way through, and then the D.J. in my head presses the rewind but­ton and lets me hear it all over again. Recently, I went for days hearing Milli Vanilli's song, "The Dream Is Over." Actually I didn't hear the entire song, just the refrain, "It's a tragedy for me to see, the dream is over..." over and over again. I think it had something to do with the Cubs blowing it in the National League playoffs that week. 
The worst time to have a song running through your head is while you're studying or taking a test. I usually hear some song while I'm studying because the music is far more interesting than my class notes. But nothing is more aggravating than having a tune racing through your brain when you're taking a big test. 
When I took the ACTs my junior year of high school, all I could hear was, "All I Need is a Miracle" by Mike and the Mechanics. A few weeks later when I took my AP U.S. History exam, Elton John's "Someone Saved My Life Tonight" stayed with me throughout the exam. 
Anytime you get a song running through your head, it's very difficult to keep it to yourself. You can either tell your friends, "You know 

Design Edb'........................Joe Zadrozny Design A9slllrt.......................... Greg Tice TypeseiBs ................................ Tim Kiefer .......................................................... Tim Quinn 
Asst. News Editor.-.. Florentine Hoelker News Copy Ecllor ............... John O'Brien 

P.O. Box 0. Notre D~me, IN 46556 
Spor1s Copy Ecllor ............... Mary Garino 

(219) 239-7471 Viewpoint Copy Editor ..... Kim Skiles Viewpoint Layout ............Colleen Stepan Accent Editor ................. Paige A. Smoron Accent Copy Editor ........... Barbara Bryn Alx:ent Designer . . .......... Alison Cocks 
The Observer 1USPS 599 ?-40001 IS published Monday through Fnday except dunng exam and vacalion per~ods The Observer IS published by students of the Un1vers1ty ot Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary"s College. Subscnpt1ons may be pur· chased lor 5i40 per year 1£25 per semester) by wntmg The Observer 
The Observer IS a member ot The Assoc1ated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 

GETA
Impress people 
SPARE PAIR 
FOR 
$1! 
CONTACT LENSES 

$491 
Softnw.to: Clear o.Jiy or Extended Wear 
TINTED LENSES 

2PPJ~ 
2d~~"''f~"'' 
c.n........ .,..-~ C..klt .... ~ 


'Au of a sudden, I had this Barry Manilow attack.' 

Robyn Simmons Assistant Accent Editor 
what song has been running through my head all day?" or you can sing snatches of the song under your breath. This can be particularly an­noying to the people around you. 
For instance, this summer my family went to downtown Chicago to a nice restaurant to cele­brate my sister's birthday. All of a sudden, I had this Barry Manilow attack. A medley of his greatest hits stayed in my head for the entire evening. All night long I kept murmuring lines from Barry's songs: "Her name was Lola, she was a show girl. .." "It's a miracle, a true blue spectacle..." "And I've looked high, low, every­where I possibly can..." I couldn't contain my­self; I wanted to get up on top of the table and sing "I Write the Songs" but I contented myself with whispering the lyrics. None of the patrons in the restaurant knew my secret torment. 
Sometimes the best way to get rid of a song that won't go away is to listen to it all the way through. One time I had to go out and buy the single for Billy Vera and the Beaters' "At This Moment" and play it on the stereo just so I could study in peace for finals during my senior year of high school. 
For all of those people who suffer from D.J.­on-the-brain, you are not alone. Just one word of advice: stay away from Top 40 stations un­less you want to hear Milli Vanilli all day, or worse yet, allow yourself to be tormented by the scourge of humankind-Rick Astley. 
Robyn Simmons is a junior American Studies major. The views expressed are the author's, and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Typills.......................................... Will Zamer ND Day Editor ......................... Amy Leroux l"ttc*lgiapa ........................ Tom Hassett Ads Deslgra" ........................... Laura Rossi ..................... Meg Callahan, Kristie Rolke ............................ Val Poletto, ,Amy Eckert Sports Wednesday ........ Molly Mahoney 

EVEN 
BIFOCALS & 
1111 E. Ireland Rd.

TRIFOCALS Buy a pair ofour 
291-4000 

Fashion Collection 
glasses ~dgeta 
BB~·lGI 

spare ptur from our Premium lllllllll"'" DOCTOR """IIIIIIJII Selection for $1, 




-e::!
No other dbcounts, prev1out orden, or aale I tend apply. 
Wednesday, October 18, 1989 The Observer page 3 
Bush: govt. ready to help quake victims 
Associated Press 
Fitzwater said Sununu had 
"talked to officials at the De­
WASHINGTON-President partment of Defense, and they Bush said Tuesday night that will be prepared to help in any the federal government was way they can, coordinating prepared to send help to the again through FEMA." earthquake area in California Sununu also contacted Vice and was sending Transporta­President Dan Quayle by tele­tion Secretary Samuel Skinner phone in San Diego. "The vice there to assess the damage. president was aware of the 
The president, who was in­earthquake. There was no ex­formed of the earthquake after perience of it that far south, addre~sing a Republican gover­however," Fitzwater said. nors' dinner, paused outside his Quayle is returning to Wash­limousine before entering the ington "at about midnight White House and told reporters tonight, San Diego time" as · at a distance that "the federal originally planned, said Fitzwa­
government will do everything ter. "He wanted to return, was it can to help." scheduled to return, and we 
Bush said Skinner, who had saw no reason to suggest a also been at the governors' change of plans," said Fitzwa­dinner, was flying immediately ter. to California. Fitzwater said FEMA would 
White House Chief of Staff keep Sununu informed. No top John Sununu said he had con­officials planned to stay at the tacted the office of California White House throughout the Gov. George Deukmejian. night, Fitzwater said. 
Bush. in his brief exchange "Sununu will make a phone with reporters, said, "There is call to (the president) before he no assessment yet. ... We will leaves with any new informa­provide assistance in every way tion, but other than we we possibly can." wouldn't expect to have any Bush said Deukmejian was other activity here tonight," 
"out of the country." Fitzwater said. 
White House spokesman Mar­Reporters learned of the 
lin Fitzwater said later that earthquake while Bush was just 
Sununu had authorized use of a beginning his address at the 
U.S. Air Force plane to fly ballroom in the Capital Hilton, Deukmejian immediately back a few blocks from the White to California from Frankfurt, House. West Germany. 
Bush said officials of the Fitzwater described how 
Federal Emergency Manage­Bush was informed after he 
ment Agency -the govern­finished his speech: "We 
ment's disaster response handed him the note just as he 
agency -were coming to the was coming off and he read it 
White !louse to brief chief of and just said -mentioned 
staff John Sununu on what they something to Barbara, 'Look at 
knew about the situation. this. It looks like a very serious 
Fitzwater said Skinner would problem. Do we know anything 
leave "within the hour" and more about it?' 
"will land as close as he can White House domestic adviser 
get." Roger Porter, informed by ABC­
Fitzwater said FEMA was TV· correspondent Brit Hume, 
establishing a command center darted out of the room to 
at its headquarters in Washing­gather information. Sununu, 
ton, "where they will coordinate who was also at the dinner 
all the information and along with Skinner, five other 
dispatch of whatever support Cabinet members and numerous 
they can provide." other top administration 
"It's a given they will get officials, also left the ballroom whatever disaster aid is called to try to contact the governor's 
for," he said. office in California. 
Distribution of Remaining 1989 Yearbooks 
If you did not pick up your book last semester-Now is the time to do so. 
WHERE: The Dome Office 3rd Floor LaFortune 
WHEN: Tuesday-Friday 12:30-4:00 P.M. Until October 20, 1989 
Questions? Cc11239-7524 HURRY! ITS YOUR LAST CHANCE 

AP Photo


Hurricane Jerry's wrath 
Wilfred Kildodeaux sits on top of a submerged truck in the Gulf of Mexico Monday morning. Two people die~ when the truck was swept from the seawall that protects Galveston, Texas by Hurricane Jerry. The bod1es were found late Sunday. A third occupant is still missing. Kildodeaux assisted in removing the vehicle from the receding tide. 



HPC plans events for ND spirit 
By MONICA YANT Northeast Neighborhood, a "This is a program directed News Copy Editor representative said. at both graduate students and 
Pie-throwing enthusiasts can undergraduates," said Daly. 
A mile of tape, a 24-hour run, test their skills at 4 p.m. at "We think it's an excellent a pie throwing contest, and a Lyons Hall's "Cream .Your Fa­way for the alumni to serve the 16-foot trojan horse will raise vorite Lyonite," where $1 dollar students," he said, "and that's campus spirit while raising will purchase a shot at any res­what we're here for, to help the money for charity this Friday, ident of Lyons. students." said representatives at Tues­Those interested in the char­The largest viewing of a game day's Hall Presidents' Council ity event should sign up in the in Notre Dame history has also meeting. dining halls, said the Lyons Hall been planned in conjunction 
The "Quarter Mile" of double­representative. with the holiday program. Up faced tape will be set up from Straub stressed that the to 2000 students, alumni, fac­Dillon Hall to the Hammes horse was created as a catalyst ulty, and staff are expected to Bookstore Friday to collect to "get some folks to the pep watch the Miami game in the change for the United Way. rally" Friday night. He also Joyce ACC, Daly said. 
said that the theme for half­The dorm pairings for Greek 
A trojan horse constructed by time festivities during the USC Week were announced by a 
Irish Insanity will be appearing game is "Beach Party," andre­Student Union Board represen­
at Fieldhouse Mall on Friday quested students to purchase tative: Knott-Zahm; Lewis­
from 4:30-6:30 p.m., said Erich beach balls for the event. Planner; Breen-Phillips-Grace; 
Straub, president of Irish In­Students remaining on cam­Pasquerilla East-Stanford; 
sanity. The horse will lead the pus during Thanksgiving break Pasquerilla West-Alumni; 
marching band in a parade will be treated to a free phone Siegfried-Keenan; Farley-St. 
around North Quad, and should call home, said Rich Daly of the Ed's; Walsh-Dillon; Badin-Ca­
arrive on South Quad at ap­Alumni Association.The first vanaugh; Howard-Pangborn; 
proximately 6:45 p.m. annual Holiday Host program and Lyons-Sorin. 
Residents of Grace Hall will will also offer students a Pairings with Saint Mary's 
run in 15-minute shifts for 24-chance to have Thanksgiving are: Regina-Fisher; Holy Cross­
hours on Friday, collecting dinner at the homes of alumni, Morrissey; LeMans-Holy Cross; 
pledge money for South Bend's faculty, or staff members. and McCandless-Carroll. 
Britain may release 3 IRA prisoners 
Associated Press The Times of London news­The bombings led to murder 
paper said policemen involved convictions for the Guildford 
LONDON-Britain paved the in the original investigation Four during a wave of terror­
way Tuesday for the probable that led to the convictions and ism by the Irish Republican 
release of at least three people life terms will be prosecuted. Army. 
imprisoned 14 years ago for In its Wednesday issue, copies The Dublin government, lead­
IRA bombings aimed at British of which were available Tues­ers of the Roman Catholic and 
soldiers. The Irish government day night, the paper reported: Anglican churches, and promi­
and civil libertarians cheered "A handful of officers, who nent British government figures 
the move. were then of relatively junior protested the innocence of the 
The government said it will rank, will face charges after an four. 
not oppose the appeal by the investigation by ... police into a British Broadcasting Corp. 
so-called "Guildford Four" -number of aspects of the origi­Television, the domestic news 
three men and a woman who nal inquiry." agency Press Association and 
insisted throughout that they A spokesman at the Home Of­other news reports said at least 
were innocent and who became fice, the government depart­three of the prisoners probably 
the focus of a lengthy campaign ment responsible for police, re­would be released soon after a 
for their release. fused to comment. 
SENIOR CLUB BILLIARDS 

9-BALL 
3-CUSHION BILLIARDS SNOOKER 
WE HAVE THE BEST "SHOOTIN" TABLES IN THE AREA, WITH A QUIET PLAYING ATMOSPHERE. 
EVERYONE PLAYS "POOL" AT THE: SENIORS CLUB BILLIARDS 603 E. WASHINGTON SOUTH BEND 233-0301 
OPEN MONDAY THRU SATURDAY 9 AM-? 

Court of Appeal hearing Thurs­day. 
"Circumstances have recently come to the notice of the Direc­tor of Public Prosecutions which have caused him to con­clude that it would be wrong for the Crown to seek to sus­tain the convictions," the pros­ecutor's office said. 
It said its decision will be ex­plained at the Thursday hear­ing. 
The murder convictions of Paul Hill, Gerard Conlon and Patrick Armstrong, all of Belfast, Northern Ireland, and of Armstrong's English girl­friend, Carole Richardson, were referred to the Court of Appeal by Home Secretary Douglas Hurd in January. 
_j 
------~----­
injured when part of a wall col­lapsed at the Amfac Hotel in

Quake 
Burlingame. 

continued from page 1 At least two bridges in the 
Santa Cruz area collapsed and 
throughout much of the area, other highways leading out of 
and phone service was dis­the city suffered significant 
rupted. damage, said Officer Kim Pen­
Three hours after the 5:04 rose of the California Highway 
p.m. PDT quake, the magnitude Patrol. There were no immedi­of the disaster began to emerge ate reports of injuries. as reports came in of "All the mountain passes are widespread death and destruc­closed because of major land­tion. Mullins said Santa Cruz, slides and fissures in the road," 75 miles south of San Fran­Penrose said. ciseo, had apparently suffered Mayor Art Agnos said eight heavy damage and most com­deaths had been reported in munieations there were San Francisco, five from a knocked out. building collapsing on cars, and 
three in a fire in the Marina 
Lt. Gov. Leo McCarthy said he section that blazed spectacu­
expeeted states of emergency larly through much of the 
would be deelared in Santa evening before being brought 
Clara, Alameda and Contra under control. He said 12 
Costa eounties. buildings, all smaller residential 
Tom Mullins, spokesman for dwellings, were destroyed but 
the California Offiee of Emer­there were no reports of major 
geney Services, said preliminary damage in high-rise buildings. 
ligures indieated at least 400 Agnos' press secretary, Eileen 
injuries throughout the area. Mahoney, said as many as 20 
David Hammons at Kaiser people had been injured at the 
Hospital in Santa Clara, just Marina fire. Another fire dam­
north of San Jose, said about aged a section of downtown 
100 patients were treated Berkeley. 
there, most injured by falling or The Marina fire was blamed 
being hit by debris. on a broken gas main, and au­
San Mateo County, direetly thorities said breaks in a water 
south of San Francisco had no main made it harder to extin­
deaths but 108 injuries, mostly guish. 
heart and anxiety-type prob­The California Highway Pa­
lems, according to eounty trol said six people were killed emergency services coordinator in the collapse of part of the Kent Paxton. Seven people were City Garden Mall in Santa Cruz. 
Earthquake in San Francisco 

A flyer in World War II and later Secretary for the Royal Navy, Duffy has been stationed




Duffy 
continued from page 1 
in Northern Ireland and con­a council for Northern Ireland tinues to be close friends with made up of both Britons and many of the area's key figures. members of the Irish govern­He has served in the House of ment. "The truly historic de­Commons since 1963 and is 
parture was that a Dublin­currently the President of the based government had the right North Atlantic Assembly. 
to a say in Northern Ireland," Duffy remarked. The great In closing, Duffy said, "There breakthrough, he said, was are times when I must put my that "for the first time in recent head above the parapet, and history a British government it's not easy." He also stated has been prepared to aet with­that the Labor government, as out consulting Northern Ire­a party, was "committed to a land." united Ireland." 

e 

BRUNO'S 
921 N. Eddy St. South Bend, IN 289-4625 



BRUNO'S SPECIAL 
$14.00 any large pizza (with 1 item) Free 2 litre 7-Up 
Delivery Included 
289-4625 

ously, they were not well-eon­trolled, he added. This is Notre Dame's second year on the list. 
This is Saint Mary's 3rd con­secutive year on the list pub­lished by U.S. News. In the past, however, Saint Mary's was grouped with all of the small comprehensive colleges. This year the category was di­vided into regions. This gives Saint Mary's a bit more pres­tige, as it is ranked high among colleges such as DePaul Univer­sity and Valparaiso University, said Hickey and McLaughlin. 
"Any time you receive this type of recognition, it is flatter­ing," McLaughlin said. The sur­vey "speaks well for our repu­tation among our peers," he said. 
O'Meara concluded that the important questions are: "What is the top bracket of sehools? Are these the best schools in the country?" If so, then O'Meara said he was very pleased to see Notre Dame on the list. 

Ranking 
continued from page 1 

Faculty quality was used as a 
measure of instructional qual­

ity. U.S. News based their final 
scores on student/faculty ratios 
in 1988-89, the percentage of 
faculty with doctorates in 
1988-89, and the "per-student 
instructional budgets, which re­
flect salaries during the 1987­
88 academic year." 

The student/teacher ratio at ND is 12 to 1. Faeulty salaries are among the highest in the nation, "better than the top 20 percent," said University Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
At Saint Mary's, the stu­dent/teacher ratio is 13 to 1. Currently, curriculum and fac­ulty programs are in the works, said McLaughlin. 
"Financial resources were 
measured by a school's per­

student endowment income 
during fiscal 1988, its per-stu­dent library budget and, where applicable, total per-student funding from state and local governments," U.S. News stated. 
O'Meara wasn't sure if gov­ernment funding included fi­nancial aid and attributed Notre Dame's rather low rank­ing in that area to financial aid, if that was the case. "Financial aid is not what it should be," he said, "but tuition is low" for a school of Notre Dame's caliber. The University has just started an analysis of its financial aid programs, O'Meara said. 
Also bringing down this score is perhaps the library budget. According to O'Meara, the problem is "already being looked into." Both he and Mal­loy said that Notre Dame has recently made a "dramatic commitment to computing re­sources," at the library. 
O'Meara stated that the rankings have been improved and that they are "much better than, three years ago." Pre vi-Health and Human Services) it is." lie said that ineludes sur­geon general. 
"The president's position on abortion, and that of the He­publican Party, is well known. and the Ameriean people knew that when he was a eandidatn," Untermeyer said. 
"Therefore, it is entirely ap­propriate for people being con­sidered for appointments at IIIIS to be asked if they hold the same views as those of the president of the United States, who would appoint them," he said. 
He added: "It is valid and proper and expected that somebody up for consideration for a position at IIIIS and cer­tain kindred agencies should be asked that question, because you know they'll be asked that by Congress, the press and members of the public." 

Novello 
continued from page 1 
tion was pushed by Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, the senator''s office said. 

In addition, she was one of a 
number of women recom­

mended for the job by President 
Bush's personal physician, Bur­
ton Lee, who said he was 

knocked out of consideration 
because his views on abortion 
differ from Bush's. 

Novello "would be terrific" in 
the job, Lee said Tuesday. 
Novello worked for Hatch in 
1982-83, when he was chair­

man of the Senate Labor and 
Human Resources Committee. 

Paul Smith, a spokesman for 
Hatch, said he remembered 

Novello as "a ball of energy. 
She's got a lot of vitality. She 
was enthusiastic about every­

thing she did. We think she'll be a good spokesman for health issues." 

He said she is married to a 
psychiatrist, Dr. Joe Novello, 
who hosted a talk show on a 
Washington radio station and 
whose brother is Don Novello, 
the comedian better known as 
"Father Guido Sarducci." 

She has served on several government task forces study­ing AIDS and on committees that dealt with women's health issues. She also is a clinical professor of pediatrics at Ge­orgetown University and is a commissioned officer in the Public Health Service. 
Although not much is publicly known about Novello's views, her opinions on abortion ap­parently are acceptable to the White House. 
Untermeyer said his office quizzes candidates about their views on the subject "if it's per­tinent, and in almost every case there (at the Department of 

Wednesday, October 18, 1989 The Observer 

AP Photo

East German demonstration 
A tram is. blocked by East German demonstrators in downtown Leipzig Monday night. About 120 000 took part m a peaceful protest march for political reforms. ' 
U.S. wants chemical weapons 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The head of the U.S. Arms Control and Dis­armament Agency confirmed Tuesday that the United States wants to reserve the right to continue producing chemical weapons, even as it pursues an international pact on banning the deadly weapons. 
Ronald Lehman was asked in a meeting with reporters about recent reports that President Bush has signed an order al­lowing the continued produc­tion of a new generation of chemical weapons for an un­specified period of time. 
The reports surfaced after Bush told the United Nations last month that he was propos­ing the United States and the Soviet Union cut their existing chemical weapons stockpiles by 80 percent as an impetus to the Geneva negotiations at which talks on curbing chemical weapons are underway. 
The president did not mention his decision on production in his U.N. speech. 
Bush, as vice president in 1984, carried a draft text to the Geneva negotiations proposing that nations signing a chemical weapons treaty cease producing such arms right away and destroy their stockpiles over a 10-year pe­riod. The international talks, in which 40 nations are taking part, resume next month. 
An agreed-upon draft of the international treaty calls for the immediate end to the pro­duction of such weapons. 
Sen. George Mitchell, D­Maine, on Monday criticized Bush's stance on continu to produce chemical weapons, calling it "a major step back­wards" and one that threatens the international negotiations. 
Asked about such criticism, Lehman said the threat of chemical weapons "needs to be addressed and our policy has been to seek a total ban on the production and storage and use of these weapons." 
U.S. officials contend Moscow has far greater stockpiles than the United States -an ac­knowledged 50,000 tons com­pared to an estimated 30,000 tons for the United States. 
Bush proposed a U.S.-Soviet agreement to begin those cuts at once, while the 40-nation treaty was being worked out in which the United States would destroy 98 percent of its chemi­cal weapons over eight years if the Soviets d the ban. 

•

AOP.A benefits gtve your career a boost 
The Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association offers a special invitation to college pilots. AOPA's unique benefits and personal pilot services put students at the leading edge of aviation. AOPA information and assistance keep members posted on the latest developments in aviation technology, news, regulations and legislation that affect you and your aviation future. This assistance makes AOPA the ideal flying partner for any serious aviator. 
Other AOPA membership benefits include: 
• 
Flight training loans at low interest rates 

• 
Twelve monthly issues of PILOT magazine 

• 
Discounts on FAPA employment services 

• 
Toll-free access to pilot specialists 

• 
Flight planning assistance 

• 
Full-time general aviation lobby 

• 
Free 1990 Aviation Reference Guide 

• 
Automatic flying-only accident insurance 


Put all of AOPA's resources to work for you for only a $35 annual membership fee. Contact your AOPA campus representative or call toll-free today. 


1-800-USA-AOPA 
for more information AIRCRAFT OWNERS & PILOlS .ASSOCIATION 421 Aviation Way, Frederick, MD 21701 
page 5 

Kurt Waldheim cleared of WWII crime allegations 
Associated Press 
LONDON-A government re­port published Tuesday cleared Austrian President Kurt Wald­heim of allegations he was in­volved in the executions of Bri­tish prisoners in Greece while serving as a German army offi­cer in 1944. 
Armed Forces Minister Archie Hamilton told Parliament 16 investigators examined thou­sands of documents provided by the United States, West Germany and Greece. Their 117-page report concluded Waldheim could not be held re­sponsible for the prisoners' ex­ecution though he was probably aware of their fate. 
Hamilton said the lengthy in­vestigation failed to find evi­dence pointing to a war crime by Waldheim when he was a lieutenant serving as an intelli­gence officer in the Balkans. 
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher ordered the inquiry in February 1988. 
The Justice Department said in Washington that Waldheim would still be banned from en­tering the United States. His name was placed on the un­wanted list in April 1987 after a finding he was involved in the execution of Allied prisoners and the deportation of Jews to death camps. 
Neal Sher, head of the U.S. Office of Special Investigation that looks into Nazi war crimes, said Tuesday, "The no­tion that Waldheim has been exonerated is absurd." 
Waldheim always denied war crimes accusations and after the British report was delivered 
Assassin kills judge as drug war in Columbia continues 
Associated Press Police said there had no sus­
pects in the shootings. 
BOGOTA. Colombia-An as­Earlier, an anonymous tele­sassin apparently sent by drug phone caller to Caracol radio in barons stepped from a motor­Medellin said "the Extradita­cycle Tuesday and calmly killed bles" killed Judge Hector a federal judge with six gun­Jimenez Rodriguez in retalia­shots as he waited outside his tion for the extradition of home in Medellin for a ride to Colombians wanted on drug 
work, witnesses said. charges in the United States. 
Hours later, a radio an­Jimenez, 55, is among scores nouncer was shot to death by of judges and court employees unidentified assailants in slain by the drug gangs. After Medellin, hub of the major his murder, the 14,000 mem­
Colombian drug cartel, making bers of a court workers' union, him the eighth newsman assas­which includes federal judges, sinated since the government called a three-day strike that cracked down on narcotics virtually shut down the judicial traffickers on Aug. 19. system. 
The radio network Caracol Union spokeswoman Consuelo quoted police as saying two Hererra said about 3,000 of the men on a motorcycle gunned estimated 9,000 non-union down Diego Vargas Escobar of court employees had decided to 
the Medellin station La Voz de join the strike. las Americas while the 54-year­A union executive in Bogota old was in his car in a western said none of Medellin's 42 fed­section of the city. The victim eral judges had police protec­had worked for Caracol until tion. He spoke anonymously to 
changing jobs several months avoid becoming a target of 
ago. drug dealers. 
+ IRELAND PROGRAM + 
: Information meeting : 
+ il©!NJO@!Xfil ++ 7:00pm + 

+ Newcomers welcome-+ : Applications distributed :
• 
in Vienna, his office stated: "The investigation report of the British government relayed to the British Parliament today proves once again that the alle­gations against Federal Presi­dent Dr. Kurt Waldheim in connection with his wartime service are devoid of any foun­dation in this case, too, as has been the case with previous ac­cusations." 
In an interview later on Aus­trian television, Waldheim said: "The report fills me, of course, with great satisfaction." 
Six British commandos were captured in April 1944, two years after Nazi dictator Adolf Hitler ordered that all captured commandos be killed after in­terrogation. 
The commandos of the Spe­cial Boat Squadron were taken to Arsakli, 10 miles east of Sa­lonika, for interrogation at the headquarters of German Army Group E, where Waldheim was a junior intelligence officer. 
The prisoners refused to talk and were later shot by firing squad in a suburb of Athens, a war crime under the Geneva Convention, which forbids killing prisoners of war. 
"No evidence has come to light to indicate that as a junior staff officer he (Waldheim) had the power either to order or to prevent that fate or indeed to affect the outcome in any way," Hamilton said. 
The report dismisses allega­tions that records were altered, destroyed or withheld to pro­tect Waldheim and says Wald­heim was never wanted by Bri­tain either as a "top Nazi" or as a war criminal. 

------------------------------------------------------------------··~---------------­
' ' 

Whether you're writing a theology paper on Word 4.0, composing an image with Illustrator for a design, finishing an arrangement on Finale; Mac is what you make it in the College of Arts and Letters. If you're tired of standing in line at O'Shaughnessy or LaFortune just to get your work done, think of making Macintosh your own with the Student Loan to Own program. Stop by the computer store for more details ... 






Mac is what you make it 
Viewpoint
Wednesday, October 18, 1989 page 7 

,.--· 
I 

P 0. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chrts Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regis CoCCia R1ch Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor .. Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager . . . . . . . Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor . . . .Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ......Shannon Roach Sports Editor ............. Theresa Kelly Production Manager.. ......... Alison Cocks Accent Editor. ...... John Blasi Systems Mgr....... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ..... Eric Bailey OTS Director..... . ........... Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor.. .. Christine Gill Controller............................. Anne Lindner 
The Observer 1s the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol­ICies of the admimstrat1on of e1ther institution. The news 1s reported as accurately and ob­JeCtively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the followtng Editor-1n-Ch1ef. Managing Editor. Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Sports Editor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Saint Mary's Editor. Commentanes, letters, and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of thetr authors. Column space IS available to all members of the community and the free express1on of varying opimons on campus, through letters. IS encouraged. 

LETTERS 

'Students-teaching-students' employed in seminar 
Dear Editor: authority usually stemming and Alternative Security, Hu­
Two years ago, during the from the presence of a faculty man Rights, Economic Devel­spring semester of 1988, a member. Under the "new" ped-opment, World Hunger, Global group of students initiated a agogy, the emphasis is placed Environmental Issues, Utopias, new course at Notre Dame. on educating through a shared the Peace Movement of the This course, "Redefining Secu­authority coming equally from 1960's, Feminism, Literary rity?," was run under the all who participate in the semi-Criticism, Students for Democ­rubric of an independent study. nar. racy, Vatican Council II, and The primary reason fur orga­Pop Art, to name a few. nizing "Redefining Security?" The heart of this new peda­was to utilize a new pedagogy gogy can be stated as "actively In order to survive as an edu­of learning. In the simplest of practicing democracy by partic­cational process, "Redefining terms, this new pedagogy can ipating in the seminar/course Security?" demands student be summarized most accurately itself." The student realizes ei­motivation and faculty support. as "students-teaching-stu­ther passivity or activity as a If you are interested in learning dents!" choice for which he/she is re­more about "Redefining Secu­
The pedagogy itself is carried sponsible. The project cannot rity?" or if any of these subject out through a seminar format. simply be passed off to an­areas appeal to your intellec­In this respect it is not new or other, rather it must be en­tual curiosity, please join us in original. However, what is new gaged in and provided for con­a brief information meeting about the seminar is the re­tinually by the students. tonight at the Center for Social moval of the faculty member The course content is purely Concerns at 7:30 p.m. from the role of the "teacher" up to the imagination of the in the classroom. Technically, students. In the past two years this may still sound like a semi­subjects have included: Lan­Jerry Duff nar, but the difference is a re­guage, International Relations, Stanford Hall moval of a subtle hierarchy of Just War Theory, Nonviolence Oct. 11. 1989 
God says 'no' to homosexuals and so should NO 
Dear Editor: . that homosexual activity is so­firmly rooted in the Catholic 
Maybe it's because I'm old cially unacceptable. These peo­tradition. Quite simply, God fashioned or in need of liberal ple make a choice, even if that says "no," and Christians enlightenment, but I have few choice is not entirely of their should obey. sympathies for the plight of own free will. Those who "come homosexuals on the Notre out of the closet" are com­And exactly where do homo­Dame campus. Their outra­pletely aware of the conse­sexuals believe their position in geous letter to the editor (The quences of that choice. To de­society should be? Why should Observer, Oct. 11) is a clear ex­mand acceptance and under­any society have to accept what ample of how blatantly im­standing from a society that is believed to be wrong? It is moral the times in which we live rejects their lifestyle is unreal­obvious that we are a commu­have become. Are we to be crit­istic. The day our society can nity morally a~leep and indif­icized for not giving homosexu­wholly embrace homosexuality ferent. What other possible ex­als a conducive environment in is the day for some reason, the planation is there for a com­which to live at the preeminent majority of the community is munity which allows "National Catholic institution in the na­indeed homosexual. Coming Out Day" for homosex­
tion? uals? National Coming Out Society refuses to accept ho­Although Christians in the Day? What will come next, 
Hallmark greeting cards for
mosexuals for the same rea­Notre Dame community should sons it rebukes criminals. For be especially sympathetic, we such an occasion? instance, our society has should by no means condone a!{reed that stealing is socially their lifestyle lest we abandon 
unacceptable and worthy of our principles and faith. We are Keith McKeon punishment; in a similar way. ND: a society whose spiritual Grace Hall our society has also deemed and intellectual growth are Oct. 11, 1989 
DOONESBURY 
Business reputation gets a raw deal 
program, in which Mr. Blasi is Dear Editor: enrolled, free thinking and ac-
I am writing this letter in re-ceptance of others' ideas is of sponse to John Blasi's " The high importance. Why then, Quest for the Easy A is a Futile does Mr. Blasi fail to offer me Effort" inside column (The Ob-even the minimum degree of re­server, Oct. 12). spect for my decision to study 
In this column, Mr. Blasi de-business? I do not consider my­scribes how his search for the self or any of the other business perfect class, one that would majors with which I have been "yield maximum results with a associated, to be "robotic minimum of effort," led him to tools." Like Mr. Blasi, I am even enroll in two introductory busi-considering graduate school­ness classes. Unfortunately, he obviously something which did not find these business shouldn't even enter my one­classes to be as ridiculously track, unappreciative mind. Of easy as he had hoped. course, the only proper thing 
Though I realize that Mr. for me to do upon graduation Blasi was attempting to write would be to don my blue suit, his column humorously, the end red tie, and wingtips and take result was a condescending and my place helping to fill the cor­inane portrayal of the business porate coffers. major which exceeded the nor-I wish Mr. Blasi luck in find­mal level of playful joking that ing his "perfect class." How­often occurs between Arts and ever, perhaps he should take a Letters and Business students. close look at why he apparently 
It is unfortunate indeed that finds the classes in his own when Mr. Blasi signed up for major so dissatisfying that he his business classes, he was puts so much effort into forced to compromise his supe-searching through the other rior ideals and submit himself academic disciplines for easy to "be trained like a robotic courses. tool and take [his] place with the other cogs in the wheels of Richard F. Westenberger corporate America." It is my Alumni Hall understanding that in the PLS Oct. 12, 1989 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Wat.., 7D TH/3 VA57'MAJOR!TYOF THeM, TH/5/R. JOKING JJAY9 ARe A 
RATHeR. Pi£A51WT MeMO­
RY! HOW 70 RCtlN;tt.& THATUJfTH THe ANTI­[)f?l)5 M~7HtY f/3U THBY MU57' I GIVe ?HeiR KJI?S? 

HeY, ANYON& 5aN 7Hb 9POI<TS sec... 1-/Ct.Y SMOI<ES! I ft4V8 IJBFINITBI.Y PIW 
ANP GON8 7D HeAV8N! 
I 
'Our difficulty arises through our effort to measure God by our little selves. And he eludes all measure.' 
Mahatma Gandhi 

(1869-1948) 


·------~----------·'-­




Accent
page 8 Wednesday, October 18, 1989 

A plea for justice or death 
The same South Africa? 
Modern Cape Town enjoys wealth and success due in part from the existence of large corporations 
Shell Corporation, as seen in background. 
Photos by Mike Schadek. 


This shantytown is a stark con­trast to the porsperous city of Cape Town. Such extreme dif­ferences be­tween wealth and poverty are common throughout South Africa. 
Finally, we cannot fail to ob­serve that there are numerous political trials before the courts in this country. Hundreds of our comrades, decent, sensitive and intelligent men and women arc daily arraigned; they have but one thing in common: they pur­sue the same ideal of freedom which the fathers and grandfa­thers of today's rulers sought and fought for against the Brit­ish. But they seek something more; they struggle for a new society where discrimination based on the color of one's skin shall be a thing of the past. Hundreds of these noble souls already populate the gapls of this country. Thousands more have suffered severe depriva­tion whilst being held in deten­tion for indefinite periods with­out trial, the anguish and desperation of it all sometimes driving some of them to adopt extreme measures, such as hunger strikes, in order to draw attention to their plight. 
We in this court arc but a humble few. We tread a thorny path which is rapidly becoming a highway. We do expect pain, prison and death if need be. 
But our cause is just. There­fore, and in accordance with the ideals enshrined in the Freedom Charter, we here, to­gether with the rest of the peo­ple of South Africa, black and white--equals, countrymen, brothers and sisters--will strive together, sparing nothing of our strength and courage, until a just and democratic society is achieved. 
Victory is cP-rtain. 
South Africa shall be free." 
This is the fourth in a series ofarticles about South Africa. Mike Schadek is a senior gov­ernment major. 

This is an excerpt from the Plea of three accused African Na­tional Congress members who were on trial during my visit to South Africa. Their statement illustrates the true South Afri­ca. It is, without doubt. one of the most moving documents I have ever read. 
W 
e stand here charged with "terrorism". The original charge against us was treason. After the State had been questioned on oljr be­half, it withdrew this charge. The next allegation was that we sought to overthrow the State. The present indictment still at­tributes such an intent to us. What was and still is omitted is that the State referred to is the apartheid state. 
Our understanding of trea­son is that it is a crime against the people. It would, for in­stance, be treason to betray the p1mple of this coun­try and to take up arms against them. But our peo­ple have been treasonab ly be­trayed. The racist minority regime rules by force, through the bar­rel of the gun and without a mandate from the people. It has created an apartheid state and, in order to maintain and defend it, employs awesome weapons of war which it has unleashed against the citizenry of this country. One of the results is an ongoing international armed conflict in which the racist mi­nority regime is ranged against the people of the country. 
We believe that South Africa belongs to all who live in it and that no government can justly claim authority unless it is based on the will of the people. We accordingly abhor the apartheid state and, in so far as we have any choice in the mat­ter, we owe it no allegiance whatsoever. We make no apolo­gies for seeking its downfall. Nor do we believe that those who seek its demise, whether by international armed conflict or otherwise, should on that ac­count be considered guilty of criminal conduct. 
The regime therefore stands accused of treason and the peo­ple do not and will not with­draw that charge. 
As for the charge we nd'W face, we again say that it is the State that stands accused. In defense of its apartheid prac­tices, this regime has brooked no opposition. Mass democratic organizations, the organizations of the people, have been si­lenced and their leaders gaoled or restricted. Tens of thousands of the regime's political oppo­nents have languished in gaol, having been detained without trial. Scores of others are 
Extreme misery and pov­erty are the lot of certain sections of the population while others enjoy a stan­dard of living which rates with the highest in the world. 
forced to stand trial for so­
called crimes against the State. 
This is called the maintenance 

of law and order. We call it ter­
rorism. 
It is terrorism too when in­
nocent men, women and chil­
dren are attacked by the re­
gime's police and SADF, and 
killed while they sleep, in lbr­
eign countries; we think of Ma­
seru, Matola, Gaberone and 
others. 

It is terrorism when this country's neighbors are desta­bilized, all in the name of apart­heid. 
It is terrorism when assas­sination squads, operating in­side and outside this country, hunt for and eliminate oppo­nents of apartheid. We think of Ruth First, Jeanette Schoon, Pat Ndzima, Cassius Make, Abram Tiro and many others. 
It is terrorism when, in the pursuit of apartheid, whole communities are uprooted-­when extreme misery and pov­
erty are the 
lot of cer­
tain sections 
of the popu­
lation while 
others enjoy 
a standard 
of living 
which rates 
with the 
highest in 
the world. 
We say 
that it is the 
regime that 
is guilty of terrorism. It would therefore be terrorism for us to identify with apartheid, or to condone a sys­tem that forces its youth to take up arms against fellow citizens, to defend the indefensible. 
Apartheid stands con­demned as a crime against hu­manity. It has been declared a crime by the international com­munity and has been rejected as a heresy and a sin by the religious community. Yet it has been allowed to devastate mil­lions of lives in this country. 
Most regrettably, apartheid has not left the legal system and the judicial process of this country untainted. With due re­spect to your Lordship and learned Assessors, we have to point out that an official Court in this country cannot ignore the laws to which it owes its ex­istence, nor the body of laws which constitute the apartheid legal system: in other words it is enjoined to apply an unjust legal system. 
One facet of the workings of the system has already been manifested in this case, in the course of events whereby we were arrested, detained, inter­rogated and brought to trial. 
After our arrest, we were detained under Section 29 of the Internal Security Act, a pro­vision which is, in practice, used only against the political opponents of the regime. It is a horrific legal provision and it is in blatant disregard of the Rule of Law. The Security Police have not failed to take full ad­vantage of its provisions; it en­ables them to operate in the dark and to extract maximum advantage to the maximum det-


Two South 
riment of their victim. It en­ables them to exert pressure on the detainee such as torture, in­

. timidation and assault. It ex­poses the detainee to dehuman­izing and degrading treatment, lengthy interrogation and months of solitary confinement without even the basic mental comforts such as reading mate­rial, access to family, friends and legal representation and advice. It is as though the sys­tem is designed to destroy the detainee; it is in fact designed to break him, to force him to produce information which will be used against him at his trial. Having undergone the rigors of Section 29 ourselves, we are not surprised that political tri­als are characterized by a high number of "confessions" al­legedly made by the accused. The courts have admitted nu­merous of these so-called con­fessions. 
The Act stipulates that the detainee should be visited peri­odically by a magistrate as well as by other employees of the State. We were so visited. Some of us were also visited by the Judge President of this division. Our experience shows that these visits do not succeed to ameliorate in any substantial way the conditions under which we are kept. It would rather seem that they were designed to put a more humane veneer to barbaric treatment which is in effect sanctioned and counte­nanced by the law. Some of our comrades still bear painful re­minders of their ordeal; they are still receiving medical and psychological treatment. 
There is no doubt that the State is using the section as a terrorist weapon: to exact a ter­rible revenge on opponents of the regime's sterile and out­dated policies. Eventually, when the victim has been thoroughly broken, he is brought before these courts to put a final stamp of credibility on the ac­tions of the police. The Court then in effect becomes a mere tool of the oppressor. 
The courts have, further­more, failed to fight the erosion of civil liberties. The judiciary have, by their silence, allowed this erosion to gain momentum and the courts now find them­selves bereft of their traditional role of an independent arbiter and protector of individual rights. 
The total picture is therefore that of a regime which has treated the courts of this land with disdain. We cannot there­fore have confidence in those Courts; they are not the Courts of the people of South Africa; they cannot dispense "justice" except in accordance with the guidelines and rules devised by the oppressor. Our ideal is that all shall be equal before the law; that the courts shall be representative of all the people. 
While, therefore, we find ourselves compelled by circum­stances to participate in the proceedings in this case, as we intend to do, we have no desire, nor do we find it at all neces­sary, to plead to the charges brought against us in this court. 

Wednesday, October 18, 1989 The Observer page 9 
Tlw Observer accepts classrfreds every busrness day from 10 a.m to 3 30 p m at the Notre Dame offrce. 314 LaFortune. alld from 12 30 to 3 p.m. at the Sarnt Maris offrce. Haggar College Center Deadlrne for ntxt day classlfreds rs 3 p m All classrfieds must be 
prepard The charge rs 2 cents per ch~racter per day rncludrng spaces
Classifieds 
NOTICES  FOUND: Calculator in 206 Cushing. Call Richard at x3263 and discribe it. If not, I have a new  FOR SALE  I need 2 NAVY GAs. Stanley #2015.  Please call  I NEED MIAMI +ANY HOME GA'S HELP CALL X3516.  For Sale: 1 USC & PITI stud tix. Call x3770  
calculator.  ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT  NEED 3 USC GA's & HAVE LOTS  
PANDORA'S BOOKS 808 howard 3 blks. from NO campus 233-2342 $$$ FOR YOUR BOOKS WE BUY AND SELL USED TEXTBOOKS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Spee-Oee Wordprocessing 237-1949 WORD PROCESSING 272-8827 Spee-Oee Wordprocessing 237-1949 WORDPROCESSING 272-8827  LOST: HOT PINK BACKPACK FROM NORTH DINING HALL ON 10111. I NEED MY PHYSICS TEST-PLEASE!! CALL LISA AT #4838, OR LEAVE TEST AT SIEGFRIED DESK. PLEASE FIND OUR WEDDING PICTURES!!! Recent alumni had red bookbag taken from bookstore on 10117 about 1:15 PM. There are several 8X1 O's an album of 50 5X5's and an album of snapshots. Of course these111ean the world to us and many cannot be replaced. If found call Linda at 277-2824 or return to security office. REWARD!!!  SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1­602-838-8885 EXT. A6262. ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT SEIZED VEHICLES from $100. Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1­602-838-8885 EXT. A6262. Travel Certificate,UA value of $427; can use in part sell below 400 call271-8401 or Lib936 PITI STUD FOR SALE. SARA X4940 USC AND NAVY STUD. TIX FOR  FOR SALE:! USC & 1 PITI ST TIK CHRIS X3360 I need USC,SMU and Miami GAs Mike 287-3087 NEED USC TICKETS 2 G A's , 2 STUD's Call x4266 or 277-2290 Need 2 USC GA's or STUD and 2 PITI GA's or STUD (Parents will pay BIG $$$$) Call CHRIS at x3278  NEED PITI GAs WILL PAY BIG $$$.CALL KEVIN 277-7167 NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. BIG$$$$. 277-9869. NEED 2 GAs FOR NAVY CALL ANN 284-4223 I need MANY GA's for both USC and Pitt. Call Joe at 255-7770 before you leave for fall break. I NEED USC TIX 2GA's  OF MONEY. LETS DEAL! x3597 NEED 1 -3 USC tickets and 1 -5 Navy tickets. Will Pay$$$. Call Marty at x1868. HELP!!! NEED 4 USC STD TIX WILL PAY GOOD$! GEORGE 1681 FOR SALE 2 Pitt stud. tix. We want your money. Call x2237 NEED 2 SMU tix. 2 stud or 1 stud & 1 GA. Please call 2237 NEED USCTIX DON 232-9469  
VALUE CHECKS are available at the Information Desk . If you have ordered one, please pick your book up at the Information Desk. ADOPTION. Happily married white couple wishes to share love and security with newborn. Expenses paid. Legal. Please call Margaret and Jerry collect 718-858-6250 evenings and weekends. TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. ROCKET SHIRTS ? 277-5647 EVENINGS Typtng. Overnight service.  WANTED ATIENTION-HIRING! Government jobs -your area. $17,840-$69,485. Callt-602­838-8885. Ext R6262 STUDENT talent ....................Nov. 10th lmprov Contest at Alumni Sr Club prizes up to $$$$100.00 Oeadlin for lmprov nile at Alum. SR. Club OCT. 19th call277-3653 leave name and number... ATIENTION-HIRING! Government jobs -your area. $17,840-$69,485. Callt-602­838-8885. Ext R6262  SALE. CALL X2100 PROUD PARENTS NEED GRAD GIFT? PRIVATE OWNER MUST SACRIFICE BRAND NEW (40 MILES) 1988 BUICK LESABRE SPECIAL OLYMPIC EDITION SEDAN. WHITE WITH "SADDLE" CLOTH INTERIOR. GORGEOUS. (J.D. POWER SAYS BUICK IS USA'S MOST TROUBLE-FREE CAR). TOUCH AIR COND., CRUISE CONTROL, TILT WHEEL, CASSETIE ETR AM-FM STEREO, 6-WAY POWER SEAT WITH POWER RECLINING SEAT BACK, POWER WINDOWS, POWER ANTENNA, ELEC. DOOR LOCKS, ELEC. TRUNK RELEASE, CARPET SAVERS FRONT & REAR, TRUNK TRIM, DOOR GUARDS, PULSATING WIPERS, ELEC. REAR DEFOGGER, READ. & COURTESY LAMPS, ELEC  Need two SMU tix please call 284­4930!!!!!!!!!! -----------------------------------.!­BIG MONEY FOR USC TICKETS .I NEED 10. STUDENTorGA Call FRANK 287-5320 NEED GAS FOR PITI, NAVY & SMU $$$$ CALL TOM & MARTY X 3185 NEED 3 PITI GA TIX $$ CALL: 4272 WANTED: USC TIX BETWEEN THE 20 YD. LINES. WILL BUY OR EXCHANGE END ZONE SEATS+ CASH OR TICKETS TO NAVY, PITI OR SMU. 800-323-7687. NEED USC TIX JOE 1714  2STUDS KRIST! -3778 PARENTS' ANNIVERSARY NEED 2 USC GA'S BAD CALL MIKE #271-8860 NEED 3 TICKETS FOR NO-USC PLEASE HELP! CALL COLLECT 216-247-2828 RODGER NEED 3 TICKETS FOR NO-USC PLEASE HELP! CALL COLLECT 216-247-2828 RODGER NEED 2 SMU GAS! NEED 2 SMU GAS! $$ X3883 $$ TRADE 1 PITI GA FOR 1 USC  I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S AND 1 PITI GA. CALL LARRY AT X.1864. I NEED USC TIX, CALL JOE AT 271-9130 HELP! I NEED 1 Pm GA ! DAD WILL PAY BIG$$ ! CALL AL X1081 WE NEED PITI GA'S! Call Pete-1643 or Mike-1672. NEED 1 USC GA OR STUDENT TICKET. CALL MARY-FRANCES @X2909. WANTED!! 2 TIX FOR USC-NO GAME WILL PAY UP TO $75 EA CALL ROGER (213)745-0861  
277-6091 THE GROOVE IS LOOKING FOR A BASS PLAYER if interested call Leroy x2932 LOST/FOUND A $20 reward for manila envelope (8 112 x 11 112) containing  STUDENT talent ...................Nov. 1Oth lmprov Contest at Alumni Sr Club prizes up to $$$$100.00 Deadlin for lmprov nile at Alum. SR. Club OCT. 19th call 277-3653 leave name and number... Wanted: Apple liE computer. Call Amy, 239-7308.  MIRRORS, TRIP ODOMETER, LIGHTED VANITY MIRROR. LISTED AT $18, 017. BEST OFFER OVER $13,900. YOU'VE WORKED HARD FOR THIS! CALL 219-272-3229. TANDY COMPUTER, COLOR MONITOR, DOT MATRIX PRINTER, DESK/HUTCH & CHAIR $2.000.00 OR BEST OFFER. CALL AFTER 6PM 234-3131.  NEED 8 USC TIX CALL2207 I NEED MIAMI TIX FOR ALUM UNCLE-HE'LL DO ANYTHING! CALL3668 TK BELIEVE IT OR NOT, I NEED 2 SMU GA's, I'LL EVEN PAY$$ x2629 NEED 2 NAVY GA'S  GA CALL 1655 OR 4224 NEED 2 USC GA'S. CALL MIKE 312-871-3270. NEED 4 PITT GA'S & 2 USC TIX. MONEY NO PROBLEM! MIKE X1236. I NEED USC and PITI GAs badly Will PAY BIG $$$$$$ or trade for USC weekend hotel Reservations  HELP! I NEED TIX FOR PITI GAME. 4 GAS OR STUDS. CALL LIZ X267 4 One room -one telephone -Four dudes -many tickets needed. Adam: needs USC GA's (2) Brian and Pat: need mucho USC student tix · Rob: needs Navy GA's (4) Call #3598 to help any or all of us.  
Spanish translations in process. Call 239-6166 or evenings 277­7043. LOST: THE FACE PART OF A HELBROS QUARTZ WATCH. IT FELL OFF THE BAND, ETC. IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL KRISTEN AT #4865 AND I WILL  WOULD YOU LIKE TO OFFER DISCOVER CREDIT CARDS? ARE YOU AVAILABLE FOR ONLY A FEW HOURS/WEEK? IF SO, CALL 1-800-932-0528 EXT. 3. WE'LL PAY YOU AS MUCH AS $10.00/HOUR. ONLY TEN POSITIONS AVAILABLE.  TICKETS Travel Tour Operator needs tickets for all N.D. games-home and away, especially MSU, USC and Miami. Premium price paid. Immediate case available. Will  WILL PAY TOP$ PLEASE CALL KEVIN x3170 NEED 2 GA'S FOR BOTH PITI. AND NAVY CALL CHERIE 4969 I need a USC GA worse than all the rest of these lying schmucks!! John, 277-7450. PLEASE!  Call Dan at 271-9821 $$FATHER WILL KILL SON IF HE DOES NOT GET A GA TO THE PITI GAME. HELP ME OUT! CALL JOHN AT 3632 OR 3626! $$ NEED 5 GA TIX FOR NAVY. CALL M.T. CREIGHTON 272-0498 OR  My 3 year old niece is coming to visit . She needs 4 tickets for USC. Student or GA's will do. Please call Mike x1 612 TRADE: NEED SMU FOR PITI ST. TIX #1765  
THINK YOU ARE COOL. IF YOU FOUND A BASKETBALL NEAR THE BOOKSTORE COURTS ON SATURDAY NIGHT OCTOBER 7, I WOULD REALLY APPRECIATE GETIING IT BACK. IT WAS MY ROOMMATE'S. THANKS FOR YOUR HELP. CALL MIKE AT 2318. LOST GOLD BEAD NECKLACE CALL USA AT X4916 LOST: black, Rayban sunglasses in the Huddle (either in the women's bathroom or by the copy machine downstairs). If found please call Liz at 283-3576!  NEED BABYSITIER FOR A.M.HOURS M-F. SALARY NEGOTIABLE. CALL 277-7262. OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo. Summer, Yr. round, All Countries, All fields. Free info. Wrrte IJC, PO BX 52-Corona Del Mar CA 92625 FEDERAL, STATE, AND CIVIL SERVICE JOBS! NOW HIRING THIS AREA! $10,271-$84,157. IMMEDIATE OPENINGS! CALL 1­315-733-6062 EXT #2382H FOR CURRENT LISTING. NEEDED: 6USCGA'S REM AT NO BOOT RIDE PHILA TO NO AFTER  trade for all major sporting events including Final 4, Indy 500 and bowl game, etc. Will also buy season tickets. Please call Dave at 1-800-828-8955 today. I'll buy any tickets for any home game, or Miami. call JEFF at 239-3714, leave a message. Thanks. NEEDED: 2PITIGA's FOR MOM AND DAD #2030 Call FRANK 287-5320 NEED GAS FOR PITI, NAVY & SMU $$$$ CALL TOM & MARTY X3185  You need TXTS. call277-3653 NEED 2 USC GA'S BADLY! CALL MOLLY X3885 I NEED 1 USC GA Please call Tim @ 1772 I need 2 NAVY GAs. Please call Stanley #2015. FOR SALE:! USC & 1 PITI ST TIK CHRISX3360 I need USC,SMU and Miami GAs Mike 287-3087 NEED USC TICKETS 2 G A's , 2 STUD's Call x4266 or 277-2290 Need 2 USC GA's or STUD  239-6661. NEED 3 OR 4 USC GA TX. GOOD BUCKS. 233-2651. NEED 3 USC STUDENT TX. $$$$ 233-2651. NEED 2 TICKETS NO-USC GAME. PARENTS DRIVING 400 MILES FROM OHIO TO SEE GAME. PLEASE CALL MARY LOU OR TOM GLASER 234-0610. I WILL TRADE USC STUDENT TICKETS FOR USC GA'S!!! CALL TIM X1790 OR X1805 If you're a bourgeois-pig scalper, I don't want your damn tix. I'll pay a just person a fair price for USC ga  Need 4 GA's and 8 Student "tixs for USC call Scott or Todd at 277-9469 I NEED 1 OR 2 PITI GA'SI CALL JIM AT 277-3276 NEED MANY PITI STUD TIX! -DAVE 234-4569 FOR SALE: 2 USC STUD. TIX. BEST OFFER. 3370. HELP! I need 2 USC GA's at any price or I 'm not allowed home for break! Please call Jacquie X4959 sE:-sUFiE'TcYGEfvoli'R_____ _ LOU HOLTZ HEADS  
BREAK  and  2 PITI GA's or STUD  or stud's.  FOR THE PEP RALLY AND GAME  
LOST: Pair of shoes at Senior Bar.  3SMUTIX  NEED 3 PITI GA TIX  {Parents will pay BIG $$$$)  Please call Marty x277 -4392  
·  Hard to believe but I went to The Commons without my Reeboks on! If found please look inside them for my life and call Tom X1694 HEY!!! To the guy who FOUND my TAN POLO JACKET at the Senior Cruise and called me last week­MY ROOMATE FORGOT YOUR NAME AND NUMBER. Please call George (again) at X1694. Thanks!  CALL STEVE FOR $$$ 1605. FALL BREAK!! PHILADELPHIA-SOUTH JERSEY I NEED A RIDE AFTER USC AND BACK B4 PITI -DAVE 1209 I need a ride to anywhere near Cleveland over break. Call Will 4048  $$ CALL: 4272 WANTED: USC TIX BETWEEN THE 20 YD. LINES. WILL BUY OR EXCHANGE END ZONE SEATS+ CASH OR TICKETS TO NAVY, PITI OR SMU. 800-323-7687. NEED USC GA'S. JOE 1714  Call CHRIS at x3278 · I NEED USC STUDENT TIX AS WELL AS GA'S CALL LLOYD AT x1684 TICKETS WANTED FOR PITI-ND GAME. 312-655-4595. If you don't sell me 9 PITI GAs, I will BLOW UP THE STADIUM AND THEN NOONE CAN WATCH  NEED 4 USC GAs Call ERIN #3622 HELP!HELP!HELP! My parents havenever been to a N.D. game need G.A.'s for PITI (one stu.) PLEASE call 284-5529 I Need 4 GA's for Navy! Call 284­5532 PLEASE!  MEN ARE HELL! I -a public service announcement from your local chapter of: WAD.W.M. (We Are Disgusted Wrth Men) Need ride back from COLORADO to NO between Oct. 26-29. Will share expenses. Katy #4514.  
LOST: GOLD SIGNET RING WITH INITIAL K BEHIND LYONS. PLEASE CALL KATY AT 2590.  I NEED A RIDE TO DC OR Va. AREA AFTER USC GAME, WILL PAY FOR GAS. TIM 4603 NEED RIDER to MN Oct.22  NEED 8 USC TIX CALL2207 I NEED MIAMI TIX FOR ALUM UNCLE-HE'LL DO ANYTHING!  THE GAME!!!! Pete L x1791 $$ FRENZIED ALUMS $$ Need USC tix! Will pay BIG bucks! Call John @2299  Need 7 NAVY GAs! Julie X3141 NEED USC GA's $2819  WE NEED A USC TICKET IN A BIG WAY ­x3205 or x3803 NEED 4 SMU GA'S TIM 271-8795  ·"  
Gretchen 284-5419  CALL3668 TK  One USC stud ticket for sale. Call  
MY BROWN LEATHER JACKET AND DUKE SWEATSHIRT WERE TAKEN FROM THE ROCKNE BUILDING ON 1015 BETWEEN 2 AND 3 O'CLOCK.  FOR RENT 2 BEDROOM APT. WITH A RIVER  BELIEVE IT OR NOT, I NEED 2 SMU GA's, I'LL EVEN PAY$$ x2629  Have 3 PITI STUD 4289 YO! POTATOHEADS ARE COMING ALL THE WAY FROM IDAHO TO SEE THE USC GAME.  Kenny, x1743. My brother will trade beautiful ex­wife for ONE Navy or SMU GA Nickx2055  WANTED 1 USC STUD TIX CALL JULIE x2905 NEED TO TRADE:  
THEY HAVE MUCH PERSONAL  VIEW. 8 MINS. FROM CAMPUS.  SELL ME STUD OR GA'S. CALL  1 Pm GA FOR I USC GA  
VALUE TO ME-PLEASE  233-7631' 234-8743.  NEED 2 NAVY GA'S  scan@ 272-2596.  WE NEED NAVY GA's  ALSO NEED USC GA'S  
RETURN, NO QUESTIONS ASKED. REWARD GIVEN. CINDY, 220 KNOTI, #4928. "Lost": Woman's Corvair Bike...White wrth blue trim.Big Basket. Great sentimental value. Any info call Bridget at 2547. Lost TAN, POLO JACKET at the SENIOR CLASS CRUISE on  ATTN: GRAD STUDENTS NICE 2 BDRM. HOUSE + GARAGE NOW AVAILABLE FOR $350/MO PLUS UTILITIES. 2 STUDENTS OK. LEASE & DEPOSIT. 1115 VASSAR. PH. 272-1265. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153  WILL PAY TOP$ PLEASE CALL KEVIN x3170 NEED 2 GA'S FOR BOTH PITI. AND NAVY CALL CHERIE 4969 I need a USC GA worse than all the rest of these lying schmucks!! John, 277-7450. PLEASE! You need TXTS. call277-3653  Your USC tickets= my$$$ if you can help call Kathleen x3427 WE NEED YOUR USC TICKET!!! PLEASE CALL x3205 or x3803 TO MAKE SOME PEOPLE VERY HAPPY. WANTED: 4NAVYTIX 4USCTIX  CALL JAY OR JIM #1942 3 PITI STUDS. BEST OFFER X3801 I NEED ONE USC TIX CALL 277-7260 STILL NEED 1 USC STUD. WILL TRADE SMU AND$. KATHLEEN X4930  SHAWNX1636 WILL SELL USC & PITI STU TKTS AT FAIR PRICE. CALL JOE AT 271-9238 NEEDED:DESPARATELY SEEKING 2 PITI GA'S!II!II PLEASE CALL JIM AT X4332 OR MARIE 284-5321 THANKS!III  
FRIDAY. PLEASE CALL GEORGE  ROOMMATE NEEDED  'X' PITTTIX  
at 1694 if you have found the jacket. THANK YOU.  Turt Crk Twnhse 277-8398  I NEED 1 USC GA Please call Tim @ 1772  STUDENT OR GA'S ACCEPTED. PLEASE CALL,  need 2 NAVY ga's. will buy or trade for USC studs. x3202  Need 2 USC Students Tix Call Bob 271-5681.  
------------------------------------­ MATI@X1650  

--------------~~--~--­

Sports Wednesday 
page 10 October 18, 1989 
NFL LEADERS SPORTS LIST 
AMER~ANFOOTBALLCONFERENCE NAnONALFOOTBALLCONFERENCE Quarterbacks Quarterbacks 
Racking up the miles 
Att Com Yds TD lnt Att Com Yds TD lnt 
Miles gained by NFL's All-Time Leading Rushers through 1988 season.
Esiason, Cin. 153 87 1261 9 2 Montana, S.F. 163 111 1445 10 3 Kelly, Buff. 162 100 1420 11 7 Hebert, N.O. 176 119 1452 9 4 Moon, Hou. 175 106 1440 8 7 Everett, Rams 180 108 1571 11 5 
1. Walter Payton 9.5 miles Brister, Pitt. 137 85 921 4 3 Rypien, Wash. 192 106 1607 11 5 
2. Tony Dorsett 7.2 miles 
Krieg, Sea. 192 110 1284 10 7 Miller, Atl. 160 101 1259 3 2 
3. Jim Brown 7.0 miles
McMahon, S.D. 162 95 1166 5 6 Simms, Giants 156 93 1328 9 7 O'Brien, Jets 210 127 1577 6 9 Majkowski, G.B. 193 116 1715 12 11 
4. Franco Harris 6.9 miles Schroeder, Raiders 122 63 1058 6 7 Tomczak, Chi. 171 97 1278 11 9 
5. John Riggins 6.5 miles 
Eason, N.E. 105 57 761 3 4 Hogeboom, Phoe. 169 100 1341 10 11 
6. O.J. Simpson 6.4 miles 
Kosar,.Ciev. 192 108 1194 6 7 Cunningham, Phil. 226 124 1578 11 9 
7. Eric Dickersoo 5.7 miles Rushers Rushers Att Yds Avg LG TD Att Yds Avg LG TD Okoye, K.C. 121 539 4.5 59 5 Anderson, Chi. 123 599 4.9 53 8 Brooks, Cin. 90 524 5.8 65 3 Riggs, Wash. 126 559 4.4 58 2 Dickerson, Ind. 115 481 4.2 21 3 Bell, Rams 121 556 4.6 46 5 Thomas, Buff. 93 453 4.9 38 1 Fullwood, G.B. 94 448 4.8 38 5 Humphrey, Den. 79 331 4.2 40 3 Anderson, Giants 123 447 3.6 36 4 Winder, Den. 77 274 3.6 16 2 Walker, DII.-Mnn. 99 394 4.0 47 2 Warner, Sea. 77 265 3.4 21 2 Craig, S.F. 102 379 3.7 27 3 Allen, Raiders 62 262 4.2 15 1 Hilliard, N.O. 106 356 3.4 25 4 Pinkett, Hou. 51 249 4.9 60 1 B.Sanders, Det. 67 354 5.3 28 3 
Stephens, N.t:. 77 243 3.2 12 2 Tate, T.B. 84 327 3.9 48 5 Williams, Sea. 66 243 3.7 17 0 
Receivers NO Yds Avg LG TD
Receivers NO Yds Avg LG TD J.Smith, Phoe. 603 --------­
47 12.8 29 5 NHL STANDINGS Reed, Buff. 43 645 15.0 78 4 Ellard, Rams 39 706 18.1 46 4 
WALES CONFERENCE 
Rice, S.F. 31 662 21.4 68 6
Thomas, Buff. 33 379 11.5 74 4 
Patrick Division

Sharpe, G.B. 31 588 19.0 79 3
Williams, Sea. 29 224 7.7 25 3 w L T Pts GF GA Home Away Div Slaughter, Clev. 27 441 16.3 55 2 Monk, Wash. 30 460 15.3 55 4 NY Rangers 4 1 1 9 25 20 2-0-1 2-1-0 1-1-0 Hill. N.O. 30 419 14.0 46 4 Pittsburgh 3 2 1 7 24 20 3-0-0 0-2-1 0-1-1
Johnson, Den. 27 376 13.9 68 2 
Washing1on 3 2 1 7 23 21 2-1-1 1-1-0 2-0-0
Blades, Sea. 26 411 15.8 32 2 1:..;.1artin, N.O. 27 430 15.9 53 2 2 5
New Jersey 2 1 18 16 0-2-1 2-0-0 1-0-1 Hill, Hou. 25 388 15.5 48 3 Carrier, T.B. 26 427 16.4 43 2 NY Islanders 2 3 1 5 26 27 0-1-1 2-2-0 0-0-1 Carter, Pitt. 25 191 22 2
7.6 Carter, Minn. 26 380 14.6 32 '2 Philadelphia 1 4 1 3 17 24 1-2-0 0-2-1 0-2-1 If\ , nr111 "R ~~q ~ .1 r c:; Adams Division
A.Miller, S.D. 24 486 20.3 63 3 
Montreal 4 3 0 8 21 15 2-1-0 2-2-0 3-1-0
Lipps, Pitt. 24 400 16.7 48 1 Futrell, T.B. 12 76 6.3 15 0 
Buffalo 3 2 1 7 20 18 2-0-1 1-2-0 2-1-0 Boston 2 3 1 5 19 22 2-0-0 0-3-1 1-2-0 Hartford 2 4 0 4 21 24 1-2-0 1-1-0 1-2-0 
,. -Kickoff Returners Kickoff Returners Quebec 1 4 1 3 25 29 1-1-1 0-3-0 1-2-0 NO Yds Avg LG TD NO Yds Avg LG TD CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Nonis Division
Logan, Mia. 15 435 29.0 97 1 Gray, Det. 13 342 26.3 38 0 
w L T Pis GF GA Home Away Div Woodson, Pitt. 16 445 27.8 66 0 Gentry, Chi. 10 256 25.6 63 0 Minnesota 5 0 1 11 26 16 3-0-0 2-0-1 1-0-0 Metcalf, Clev. 11 292 26.5 47 0 Dixon, Dall. 20 473 23.7 90 0 Chicago 3 3 1 7 25 26 2-2-0 1-1-1 2-2-0 Martin, N.E. 13 331 25.5 38 0 Palmer, Det. 11 255 23.2 62 0 St.louis 2 2 0 4 15 15 1-1-0 1-1-0 2-2-0 
Detroit 2 4 0 4 21 29 2-0-0 0-4-0 0-1-0
Jefferson, Sea. 16 407 25.4 97 1 A.Johnson, Wash. 15 346 23.1 38 0 
Toronto 1 5 0 2 23 37 0-2-0 1-3-0 1·1-0
Townsell, Jets 11 270 24.5 69 .0 Nelson, Minn. 14 317 22.6 32 0 Smythe Division Harris, Hou. 13 309 23.8 63 0 Green, Chi. 10 224 22.4 37 0 Calgary 4 1 2 10 39 31 2-0-0 2-1-2 0-0-0 Jennings, Cin. 13 276 21.2 28 0 Sanders, Atl. 9 195 21.7 60 0 Los Angeles 4 2 0 8 29 24 2-2-0 2-0-0 2-1-0 Vancouver 3 3 0 6 25 26 2-3-0 1-0-0 1·2-0
Bell, Den. 11 228 20.7 33 0 Ro.Brown, Rams 23 498 21.7 74 0 
Edmonton 2 2 1 5 19 19 0-2-1 2-0-0 2-2-0 Edmonds, Raiders 12 235 19.6 43 0 Jones, Atl. 11 235 21.4 29 0 Winnipeg 2 3 0 4 16 18 1-1-0 1-2-0 0-0-0 
TOP 25 POLL NFL STANDINGS Tuesday's Games St. Louis at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. 
Late Game Not Included Vancouver at Toronto, 7:35p.m. First-place votes in parentheses AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE NATIONAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE Calgary 8, Quebec 8, tie Minnesota at Detroit, 7:35p.m. Team Record Pts Pvs OFFENSE OFFENSE Minnesota 6, New York Islanders 3 Philadelphia at New Jersey, 7:45p.m. 
1. 
Notre Dame (52) 6-0-o 1 ,443 1 Yards Rush Pass Yards Rush Pass Chicago 3, New York Rangers 3, tie Winnipeg at Edmonton, 9:35p.m. 

2. 
Miami, Ra (3) 6-0-0 1 ,374 2 Buffalo 2372 667 1705 Washington 2454 886 1568 Pittsburgh 7, Toronto 5 Thursday's Games 

3. 
Colorado (3) 6-0-0 1 ,352 3 Cincinnati 2194 1057 1137 Green Bay 2422 778 1644 Boston at Los Angeles, (n) Hartford at New York Rangers, 7:35p.m. 

4. 
Nebraska 6-0-0 1 ,243 4 Houston 2122 772 1350 Chicago 2269 -937 1332 Wednesday's Games Quebec at Chicago, 8:35p.m. 

5. 
Michigan 4-1 -0 1 , 187 5 Miami 2013 469 1544 Rams 2243 743 1500 Buffalo at Hartford. 7:35p.m. Detroit at St. Louis, 8:35p.m. 

6. 
Tennessee 5-0-0 1,162 6 Jets 1985 492 1493 San Fran 2198 696 1502 Calgary at Montreal, 7:35p.m. 

7. 
Arkansas 5-0-0 1,118 7 Raiders 1918 766 1152 Phil' delphia 2185 742 1443 

8. 
Pittsburgh 5-0·1 1,011 9 San Diego 1855 727 1128 NewOrl'ns 2169 721 1448 SPORTS CALENDAR 9. Southern Cal 5·1-0 983 10 


DEFENSE DEFENSE
10. Alabama 5-0-0 900 11 SPORTS CALENDAR Women's golf at Purdue 
Yards Rush Pass Yards Rush Pass
11. Auburn 4-1-0 873 12 Home games in CAPS Invitational
Cleveland 1582 602 980 Minnesota 1302 708 594
12. N. Carolina St. 6-0-0 779 13 
Kansas City 1625 787 838 San Fran 1827 531 1296 Wednesday Women's cross country vs. 
13. Illinois 4-1-0 680 16 Denver 1695 486 1209 New Orl'ns 1917 507 1410 Women's soccer vs. CHICAGO, MAROUETIE14. Florida St. 4-2-0 644 19 
Cincinnati 1911 1103 1951 1257 7:30p.m.·
15. 
Washington St. 6-1-0 627 17 808 Detroit 694 Men's cross country vs. USC 

16. 
Houston 4-1-0 611 8 Men's soccer vs. DEPAUL Football vs. USC


San Diego 1917 720 1197 Giants 1962 639 1323
New Engld 939 601 1338 Tampa Bay 2044 717 132717. Penn St. 5-1-0 434 23 
Raiders 1962 821 1141 Atlanta 2053 817 1236 Thursday
18. West Virginia 4-1 -1 41 9 20 
Baseball vs. USC at Coveleski Sunday
19. Air Force 6-1-0 317 17 
SCOREBOARD Women's soccer at Duke, 1 p.m. 
20 Florida 5-1-0 272 25 Stadium 
Women's golf at Purdue
21.BrighamYoung 5-1-0 260 25 Results from Oct. 11-18 Notre Dame def. Pennsylvania 16-Volleyball at Stanford Tournament 
22. Arizona 4-2-0 245 -Friday Invitational
14' 15-0' 15-8 
23. Texas A&M 4-2-0 203 ­
Soccer

24.SouthCarolina 4-1-1 173 24 Football (6-0) Men's soccer vs. Loyola Monday 
25. Oklahoma 4-2-0 151 15 Notre Dame 41 , Air Force 27 Men's (5-5-3) Saturday No sports scheduled 
Other receiving votes: Michigan St. 118, Volleyball (7-10) Notre Dame 0, Akron 0 Baseball vs. USC at Coveleski Clemson 109, Fresno St. 50, Virginia 33, Tuesday
Notre Dame def. Illinois State, 15-Notre Dame 9, Valparaiso 2 Stadium
Washington 21, Hawaii 18, Texas 15, 
Men's soccer vs. AIR FORCE

6, 15-17, 16-14, 15-7, 15-12 Women's (11-6) Volleyball at Stanford Tournament 
Army 7, Mississippi 5, Minnesota 4, E. Michigan 3, Duke 2, Oregon 2, Texas Texas def. Notre Dame 15-8, 15-Notre Dame 4, Alma 0 Women's soccer at Virginia, 3 Oct. 25 
Tech 2. 13. 15-10 Notre Dame 1, Saint Mary's 0 p.m. Volleyball at Butler, 7 p.m. 
_/ 


STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD TONIGHT IS HALL PHOTO NIGHT Please make suggestions for Student Government Check your lobbies for section picture times. activities in suggestion box in Haggar College Center. Remember there will be children trick-or-treating in dorms on Halloween. Buy your candy and relax!  





----, 
Wednesday, October 18, 1989 The Observer page 11 j 
~~~~~~~~~~--------------------------~~==~----------------------------------------~~-­
The Observer accepts ctass1f1eds every busmess day from 10 am to 3·30 p m at tt1e Notre Dame off1ce. 314 LaFortune. and trorn 12 30 to 3 p.m at the Sa1nl Marys off1ce. Haggar College Center. Deadlme for next-day ctass1fieds IS 3 p rn All clas<,rfreds must be prepard The charge IS 2 cents per character per day. includ1ng spaces
Classifiedscontinued 
Help me get Iovin' I Need U S C Ga have Pitt Ga, St NEED NAVY & SMU GA'S. DON Help, I need a ride to the St. Louis Need one Navy ticket for girlfriend. •need 2 USC ga's Rick #1795 NEED 2 USC TIX. MAURA + Cash Call x2266 Pete X2335 area for fall break. Will help with Call Jim, x4061. 288-0885. gas. Tom x3132or3120 
I need 2 USC GA's NEED 2 USC GA'S!! selling 2 PITI/NAVY GA Please call , Mary Kay 284-5227 Please Help! Need 15 USC tix + MIKE x3501 TO THE MAN IN GREEN;call Jim X4625 PITI TIX PITI TIX PITI TIX PITT ride FROM PHILLY after break. YOU MUST BE MORE SPECIFIC! 
NEED 4 GA'S CALL TIM #1699 Call Dan 271-0972. 8 STUD. USC TIX 4 SALE. 234-(ARE YOU FROM RHS?)
HELP!! HELPI! HELP!! 
I NEED TO TRADE 4 SMU OR I WANT YOU TO MAKE MY DAY! 2476. A GIRLIN GREENI NEED 2 USC GA'S 2 PITI GA'S FOR AS MANY DESPARATELY 
USC GA'S AS POSSIBLE AUDITIONS!!!! AUDITIONS!!!!
PERSONALS

!I WILL PAY IF YOU WILL HELP! PLEASE CALL 284 5022. It isn't to late to sell your USC lor PLEASE CALL KELLY OR CATHI I NEED 1 USC AND 1 PITI tickets. Call Ken A.@ 239-7666 TINY ALICE
Hi T.Bass!!!

@4985 TICKET. GA'S OR STUD. or 232·0329 after 6 p. $$$$$ Tues. & Wed., Oct. 17 &18 $$$$$$ HELP $$$ HELP$$$$$$ 
CALL MIKE AT X.1751 7:00pm to 11 :OOprn
ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OFMom and Dad are kind of weird. 
PRAYER AND JOYOUS Lab Theatre in Washington HallNEED PITI GA'S 
Even after seeing the boring BE THERE!!!!
COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A
BETH 3706 Purdue game, they rarin' to see NEED MANY USC GA'S OR STUD. We Need USC Studs or GAs CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE more ND football. Help them out. TIX X232-9857 Will Pay $$ Call Jeff or Kevin POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY
I need NAVY & USC GA'S They'll buy any two G.A.s for any @2313 RIDE TO WASHINTON D. C.
RD. 300 W. KOKOMO, IN 46901
desparately. Call Colin at x1930. NEEDED FOR BREAK
home game. Call #3714 and leave a message. I NEED USC, AND NAVY GA'S WE NEED NAVY GA's OR STUD will share expenses 
NEED A RIDE TO MPLS/ST. PAUL FOR MY PARENTS COMING IN 
TIX. CALL DAVE OR MIKE X1059 call INGO at 2348 or 2355
FOR OCT. BREAK! WILL HELP WANTED!!!! 
FOR THEIR FIRST FOOTBALL WITH GAS $$ CALL LARA
NAVY, NAVY, NAVY NEED 2 or 4 Pitt GA's "Don't be a Girlieman ...
GAMES. I ALSO NEED TWO USC X4526 OR MICHELLE X2696
TICKETS Call Eric x1008 NEED 1 SMU TICKET CALL Be a Boy-Hater!!!
STUDENT TICKETS. PLEASE
·cALL 3553• ask for Dan PATTY X3468 Believe me now
CALL JOHN AT 3586. 
Hi T.Bass!!!

NEED 1 USC & 1 PITI GA CALL and hear me later!!!" 16550R4224 -Hans & Franz, SNL
NEED GA AND STU TIX FOR USC AND PITI. CALL CHRIS 
I NEED 2 USC TIX ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF
PITI STUD TKTS 4 SALE!!! CALL S.W.B.H.C. 
will trade two tix for cash and a PRAYER AND JOYOUS
I NEED PITI, SMU GA'S 277-6896 leave name /ph.#/ bid
AT x1067

date with my cousin after the COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A
PLEASE!! #2819 will decide by 10/19. HELP! I need a ride to Mpls area 
game. Call Matt 277-9485 CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE for break. Will help wrth driving,
POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY Have USC & Pitt St. tickets TWO USC STUD TICKETS FOR RD. 300 W. KOKOMO, IN 46901 gas, tolls. Please call Jackie$ SMU$ SMU$ SMU$ 
2 Tixs to all Home Games for sale x4161
Ca11Tom4180 SALE. BEST OFFER BY 8:00 WED.
$ GA$ GA$GA $GA$GA $ 272·5092 
Call Eric x1161 or Karl x1153 ADOPTION • Facing pregnancy Need 2 SMU GA's! 
HELPI BROS COMING FROM LOU HEADS!
alone? Let us help. Childless -call MATI X1211 IF YOU HAVE A USC STUDENT 

TEXAS,NEED 2 USC GA'S X2482 couple offering loving home and
TICKET TO SELL PLEASE CALL secure future for your infant. 
LISA 4937 FOR SALE: Pitt ST tic. I know this is a futile attempt Confidential · medical and legal JEANNE LOUIS BALLOT

NEED MANY USC GA'S TOP DOLLAR PAID OR x2386 Make offer. but I need 2 USC GA'2 expenses paid. Call collect CHRISHEG HAVE 3 SID FOR Please call, Michael @4521 any1ime, Sandy and Kurt (317) AMY MILLER 
NEED 4 NAVY GA's TRADE OR SALE X1572 
894-5748. ......................................
PLEASE CALL KARIN x1321 I HAVE A DEEP DESIRE TO BUY
HAVE USC Stud Tix HAVE MIAMI GA'sl NEED PITI NEED A RIDE TO MPLS/ST. PAUL
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ THREE U.S.C. TICKETS.
X1715 GA's! LETS MAKE A DEAL! FOR OCT. BREAK! WILL HELP
HELP!!!I!I! I NEED 3 GA FOR THE DO YOU HAVE THE MEANS? I
Best Offer Call Robin at X4206! 
WITH GAS $$ CALL LARAPITI GAME CALL TONY HAVE THE DOUGH!

X4526 OR MICHELLE X2696 288-3032 
NEED 2 OR 3 USC GA'S Interested in selling tickets to USC CALL KATE, AT 4042. 
••••*********•••••••••••••••••••••

1 PITI STUD game? Need 2 GA or student.
NEED ANY PITI GA'S $$$$$$$$ I HAVE WHAT YOU WANT! ONE 
TRACY X2613 Please call 232-0723 (ask for 
MUGHO DINERO$ BOB Q X1409PITI STUD FOR SALE! BEST 
Laurie) 

RIDE NEEDED TO BOSTON OFFER! HURRY BEFORE ITS 
AREA: 2 RIDERS THAT WILLNEED 2 PITI GA'S. CALL SANDYTOO LATE! CALL CHRIS AT 

NEED 2 OR 3 USC GA'S I WANT TO TRADE MY PITI HELP WITH DRIVING ANDX4012X2727. 
1 PITISTUD STUD. FOR YOUR NAVY AND 
EXPENSES CALL X1329 $$$$ TRACYX2613 SMU TIX. CALL MATI X31 00. I REALLY NEED A NAVY GA 
TO THE DUCK HUNT CLUB FOR MOM 
We need USC student tickets and I HAVE 2 USC GA'S. WILL TRADE Sponsored by:I NEED NAVY GA'SPlease call Scott x1635 after 8:30 FR. HARGROW2 Navy GA's. Please call Brian or. THEM FOR 2 PITI GA'S. CALL 
PETE 271-8795 

CRESTED!
Matt at x.1695. CRAIG. X3100. 
NOVEMBER 22·26 * 4NIGHT -,.. It's duck hunting season I I NEED 2 USC STUD TIX CALL 

STEAMB 
LOTS 0' $$$$$$$$ 
HARLEQUIN DUCK­
JANUARY 2·12* S OR 6NIGH -,..
BOBX1747$$$$$$ 

NEED: many USC student tickets, I NEED PITI GA's multicolored, that is-hunting

BRECKEN

I need one USC student ticket! 
call Megan 2518 CALL DAN AT 271-9821 season in
JANUARY 2·7 *S NIGHTS -,.. 1,
MUST SELL 4 USC GA'SPLEASE! 
CALL MICHAEL 239 7491Jodi X4090 $$$$$$ 
WINTER~ 
KA, LA, MA, ZOO, M I . Rich Alumni Father CALLSCOTI X4113 
I NEED TWO SMU GA'S 

JANUARY 2·7 *SNIGHTS 16 
NEED GA'S TO USC OR SMU!!! 
VAIUBEAVER

TOP$ Want to join? Call 3374! Ask for Needs USC GAs 
JANUARY S· t 2*SOR 7NIG -,..

WILL PAY!!!! CALL X2658 (BOLT) ALL HOME GA'S 
$$$ reward for your help! FOR SALE: TWO PITI STUD TIX Casey!

., •z•c
-HEIDI

312·920-9350 Call Tim X2037 Together, senior section, 35 yd In Call 272-3618, leave message
HELP ME!I 
•••••cREAM YOURI NEED 2 PITI GA'sI NEED USC, MIAMI, & ALL HOME 

IIIII ANIIJAl CIJURL{('f WWIIIIIIJIIIIUU 
FAVORITE•••••CALL CHRIS @1027 

TOll FRif l'fiiiMATIJN 1-REJBIVATIONI
GAME TIX 272-6306 
•••••LYONITE••••• NEED ONE USC G.A. and NEED smu ga's 277-5934 


1·800·321·5911
NEED 3 USC STUD TiXNAVYNAVYNAVYNAVYNAVY 
NEED LOTS OF NAVY TIX-GA'S FOUR PITI G.A.s: Luke x3113 COMING FRIDAY$$ BIG BUCKS $$I need 5 G.A.'s 
or STUD. CALL TOM-1694. at4:30
(I'm not kidding) MARGRET SHANE 
or any1hing you have together AND OF COURSECall "MONEYBAGS" PAT x3317NAME YOUR PRICE!!!! 
I NEED 1 USC STUD. JUILEEEEE HASKINS Now's your chance for revenge­Call Kyle-#3775 
MIKE #4057 DE$$$$$$$$$PERATEL Y NEED JUST THOUGHT I'D Cream her in the face wrth a pie!
Need 11 GA's for Navy. 271-8347. 
NAVY GAs X350Q-Watts SAY HOWDY! THE
Ask for Tony or Sue. Need Navy Tix 6TH ROOMIE Sign up tonight at South Dining
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
$$No Issue Hall and don't forget your dollar! 
NEED USC-STUDENT TIXWANTED: MIAMI TICKETS •DESPERATELY SEEKING USC ND/SMC RIGHT TO LIFE 
CALL MATI AT 1961 ~~~-~~:~~-~9................... . and SMU-GA'S. PLEASE CALL tor info call Trish at X3208 
TIX. CALL KRISTEN X2670.
AMY AT 283·4220.

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ HAVE USC STUDENTS Dr. JOHN RICE speaks orl'the BEST OFFER physician's view of abortion. 
I NEED PITI GA'S!!!II KYLE 1387 I need 1 Navy stud. ticket MONSIEUR LOYAL MY PARENTS WILL KILL ME IF I Call Jim at x1192 My name is Anne 
FOR SALE TONIGHT, 7 : 30
DON'T FIND THEM TICKETS!! 
••****** * ** ** * *••**** *** ***•••**••** Montgomery Theater, LaFortune 
PLEASE CALL CHRIS AT 283· USC NAVY USC NAVY USC PITI, USC and SMU GAs needed. 4220 IF YOU CAN HELP ME! I desperately need tickets to Call Matt at #3361 or #3362. 
1 USC & 1 PITI STUDENT There are still some of you who 
I need a ride to INDY after USC

PITIGA'S! the USC AND NAVY games. 
TICKET. BEST OFFER BY 5:00PM need to pick up your VALUE x2055 Nick Please help mel! I Call Kate at THURSDAY. CHECK COUPON BOOK that your CAN YOU BELIEVE IT???
x1337. 

parents purchased for you. GetROUNDTRIP PLANE TIX TO N.Y.
Two Pitt student tickets USC NAVY USC NAVY USC 
CALL JIM@ X-1720. PLEASE them at the Information Desk in HAPPY BIRTHDAY DIRTY!!!
For Sale, Call x1662 ONLY $220!!! 
LEAVE MESSAGE. LaFortune.
CALL CHRIS AT x1688 SOON Show your spirrt and stay dry this 
DESPERATELY SEEKING 3 USC I need USC tickets and am willing BREAK'S ALMOST HERE! I NEED 3 PITI STUDENT CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable --" 
Saturday by wearing your 

TICKETS, PLEASE HELP CALL to pay almost any price for them. 
TICKETS!!!!I!II If you're selling atmosphere, daily & weekly NOTRE DAME RAIN PONCHO.
X2741 Call Kate at 1337!!!!! 
$.$.$"$"$•$•$"$"$•$·$·$·$·$"$" any, please call Michelle x4096. specials, pool table, English darts, Cost is only $2.50. Get them at the
usc usc usc usc usc usc 
$. and great company. 234-3541 
lnformatio Desk in LaFortune.

Young attractive male, looking to 
Need 2 Navy Student Tickets NEED PITI GA'S CALL MIKE More and more are doing rt!
start relationship wrth Pitt GAs HELPII NEED 4 USC TIX (2 GA'S 
Call Norm x4785. Big money! X1714 HiAg!
Call Mike @ 2288 if interested. 2 STUD.) f~_LL 284-5334. 
There once was a boy named Ted NEED ANY NUMBER OF GA OR MIAMI FLIGHTs• MIAMI FLIGHTS who was a real zer STUDENT TIX FOR USC AND Round-trip airfares to Miami or One night came a minor PITI. CALL 312·609·4343 ASK Fort Lauderdale. Depart sporting black lace wares FOR PAUL. November 23 from Midway He later felt finer 
(Chicago ); return November 27 to after running his hand thru her hair 

Ho Chi Mini 
Midway (Chi.) . $239 for students, They now refer to him as Rollie Wanted: 2 Tix for the SMU Game! $265 for others. Tix sold on first · because of what came to pass 

finally got 

Call Tom at x2333 come, first-serve basis, and are But disclosing his name is sheer non-refundable. Anthony Travel folly

her chicken! 
Need 2 Pitt GA's! Will trade with 1·800· 7DOMERS For the colonel is after his ___! USC tickets or buy w~h $. Call Amy
To the wicked 
284-5183. S.W.B.H.C. MEMBERS UNITE!! YOU ARE MY SUNSHINE, MY

witch-

SELLING: ONE USC AND ONE ONLY SUNSHINE IIIII!I 2 USC st tkts for sale. Best offer. PITI STUD TICKET BEST Have a swell day Mamba! 


Happy 21st 
Call Tree or Tina at 284-5183. OFFER CALL2286. 
MARY MAHONEY! MARY I have 2 SMU GA's(sec.10) Best RIDE NEEDED TO THE MAHONEY! MARY MAHONEYI Offer. Rich 3578 COLUMBUS AREA AFTER THE BWCHESS! PPEMDS! USC GAME AND RETURNING (SMALL FAMILIES) 

Birthday 

I must sell FOR THE PITI GAME.. I'm ready for circus lunch, are you? 2USCGAS WILLING TO SHARE EXPENSES --your lovah
Love, 

the Fuzzy Foreigner, 
Before Fri CALL BETSY AT 277-4322 Moly Perry x3271
The G & T "Twins", 
Everybody ask Mary Beth P. what 
I NEED 2 USC GA AND 1 ST HELP! Please sell me your USC
and Paddington. 
the number 135 means to her. 
Kevin x2322 or 2376 tickets!! Call Tina at x4840 

.-.I 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Tickets for this weekend's baseball games and tennis match against USC arc on sale in the dining halls at dinner this week or at Gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. Student Blue/Gold Cards will be accepted at the baseball game. Student tickets for both events will be $2 each. Tickets are also available at the door. 
Shuttle service for students to the Notre Dame-USC baseball game will begin at 6 p.m. Thursday from the main circle. The buses will leave Friday immediately following the pep rally from the Joyce ACC. 
Hapkido Club meets Tuesdays and Thursdays from 8:30 to 9:30 p.m. in Room 219 Hockne Memorial. Learn self­dcfcnse from sixth degree black belt Phil Hong. Beginners weleome. 
Basketball ticket sales begin Monday, Oct. 30. Seniors· may buy tickets on Monday, juniors on Tuesday, sophomores, grad and law students on Wednesday and frcshmen on Thursday. Applications will be in students' mailboxes by Oct. 30. Tickets for the 11 home games are $55 for lower arena and $44 for bleachers. 

Quake 
continued from page 16 
were reports of fires and dam­age in the city. 
The press box in Candlestick Park shifted as the initial tremor hit. There was an an­nouncement to clear the upper deck, but most of the fans re­mained. 

At the time of the tremor, a band was playing on the out­field grass and hundreds of balloons were set to be released as Candlestick prepared for its first World Series game since 1962. 
A few minutes after the first aftershock there was another brief tremor at about 5:10 p.m., but the fans remained calm and stayed in their seats. 
Items 
continued from page 16 
The Notre Dame-USC baseball series, dubbed as the South Bend Tribune Irish Fall Classic, will have one aspect alien to college baseball during the regular season. Both teams will be exclusively using wooden bats. 
Furnished by Louisville Slugger and cngraved with the wording "USC vs. Notre Dame," the bats could produce a game very different from the normal collegiate style, where the usc of aluminum bats often results in high-scoring contests. 
Notre Dame has been work­ing with wooden bats through­out their fall drills. 
"It helps us in a number of ways," said Murphy. "The wooden bats force you to drive through the ball and use your hands more in hitting. With aluminum, you can have suc­cess without doing those things. It also gives all the scouts in the area an indication of what the players can do with a wooden bat in their hands." 
Wooden bats are not used in college baseball, primarily be­cause of their added expense in comparison to aluminum. 
"I think the game of baseball is meant to be played with a wooden bat," Murphy contin­ued. "If y·ou polled college coaches and they had financial backing, they'd say they'd rather be playing wood." 

Candlestick Park, which opened in 1960, has a capacity of 60,000. At the time of the initial tremor, the stadium was almost full. 
Mike Pechner, a local meteo­rologist, said he was walking up a concrete ramp with hun­dreds of fans when the stadium began to sway. 
"We knew what it was right away," Pechner said. "But everyone remained calm and kept going." 
Lois Gilliam, a stadium ven­dor, said "the power went out. It came back on and scared me, and I grew up here. The build­ing shook. The power went out." 
She said people were in line to buy snacks when the earthquake hit and stayed there after the tremor. 
Murphy has tabbed senior Ed Lund, a two-year starter at catcher, as captain for the 1990 team. Lund has a career batting average of .306 and hit .328 with 48 RBI in 54 games last season. 
Lund will be leading a team dominated by underclassmen. On the 30-man Irish roster, 24 players are either freshmen or sophomores. 
"Ed has been a steady influ­ence on this team throughout his career," said Murphy. "He's a very unselfish player who knows what it takes to win. I believe he possesses the quali­ties of a leader, and I'm sure he'll do an excellent job." 
Frl 
~ 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCSICO -The earthquake that caused post­ponement of Game 3 of the World Series Tuesday night was another chapter in the con­troversial history of Candlestick Park. 


The stadium, in which the San Francisco Giants began play in 1960, has been the butt of jokes because of the cold, windy, foggy weather conditions that sometimes assail the park dur­ing the baseball season. 
The nation got a first-hand look at what can happen at Candlestick Park during the 1961 All-Star Game, when pitcher Stu Miller was blown off balance during his windup. 
The following year, Game 6 of the World Series between the 
Giants and New York Yankees 
was postponed three consecu­
tive days because of rain. The 
field eventually was dried by the 
high-speed rotors of helicopters 
hovering a few feet above the 
playing surface. 

The stadium was built after the Giants played their first two seasons in San Francisco at Seals Stadium, a former minor league park. Candlestick was built at Candlestick Point, which juts into San Francisco Bay about live miles south of the center of the city. 
It has long been renowned for strong winds which blow in from left field, accompanied by chill, moisture and occasional dense fog. Major league players have complained about the conditions since the park was built. A routine fly ball with the wind blowing at Candlestick can become a difficult chance. 
The city-owned stadium has been a subject of political de­bate for years, with several proposals made for building a park elsewhere in the city. The 
1~1 

Mr. Peul Murrey of the IBM CORPORATION 

"" 
latest idea is to construct a park in the China Basin area, about three miles north '>f Candlestick, adjacent to the west shore of the bay. 
A bond issue seeking support for a new stadium is being put before the voters next month. Giants owner Bob Lurie, who has been courted by San Jose and Santa Clara, about 40 miles to the south, has said the Giants will not play in Candlestick when their lease expires after the 1994 season. 
When Lurie reached agrnc­ment with the city last summer for the China Basin park. a $115 million project, the city said it would allow him to move after next year if voters rnjeet a stadium construction bond is­sue. They did so in 1987. 
The stadium seated 42,500 when built and was virtually open behind left field, whern the winds begin to blow heavily most afternoons at mid-game. It was double-decked all around in 1972 to increase ca­pao'ity. 
wi 11 be on campus to discuss career opportunities for Electrical Engi nears/Computer Science, Mechanical Engineers and Chemical Engineers in the New Vork, Mid Hudson Valley Region (Eest Fi shki 11, Poughkeepsie, Kingston, end Sterling Forest) The session is scheduled for October 19 7-9 pm rm. 1o6I cushing Hall of Engineering 
,·' . ' 
Wednesday, October 18, 1989 The Observer page 13 

Troy Murray, shown here sending Montreal's Stephane Richer airborn, assisted on the tying goal late in the third period last night as the Chicago Black Hawks came back to fight the New York Rangers to a 3-3 deadlock 
Lemieux, Penguins defeat Leafs 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH Randy Gilhen scored with 3:34 remain­ing and Mario Lemieux had the 22nd three-goal game of his ca­reer as the Pittsburgh Penguins overcame a 3-1 deficit to beat the Toronto Maple Leafs 7-5 Tuesday night. 
Lemieux -who twice hit an empty net -also had two as­sists to raise his point total to 14. 
Ten seconds after Lemieux hit the empty net the first time, Toronto's AI Iafrate scored his second goal of the game. Lemieux then scored his fourth of the season into the empty net with 13 seconds left. 
Gilhen got off a low, hard shot into the far corner of the net despite being checked closely by defenseman Rob Harnage. It was his second goal of the season and broke a 4-4 tic. 
Rob Brown scored on Pittsburgh's first shot before the Maple Leafs came back with three consecutive goals. Brown converted Lemieux's pass dur­ing a power play at 3:52. 
Dan Daoust, Iafrate and Daniel Marios scored in a span of 8:06 for Toronto. Daoust scored at 10:32, Iafrate scored while being held by Randy Hiller at 12:19 and Marios converted a power-play chance at 18:38. 
Flames 8, Nordiques 8 
The Calgary Flames tied an NHL record by scoring two goals, both short-handed, in four seconds and also had three goals in a 27 -second span during the third period Tuesday night to pull into an 8-8 tie with the Quebec Nordiques. 
With the Flames' Gary Roberts off for roughing in the final minute, Calgary (4-1-2) pulled goaltender Mike Vernon and sent five attackers against the Nordiques. 
Doug Gilmour scored with a quick shot from the left faceoff circle at 19:45 and then fed Paul Ranheim off the ensuing faceoff for the tying goal at 
19:49 on a wrist shot from the top of the slot. 
Three other teams have scored two goals within four seconds, most recently Toronto last December. The shortest 

RESHMAN-SOPHOMORE TRIP TO 
--EACON BOW 
THURSDAY,OCTOBER19 
BUSES LEAVING MAIN CIRCLE AT 9:00 AND 9:30 
Take a study break and come have a ball!! 
time ever between goals is two seconds, accomplished by St. Louis and Boston in 1987. 
The Nordiques, helped by two five-minute powerplays when the Flames' Jiri Hrdina and Theoren Fleury were ejected for drawing blood on high-sticking infractions, led 8-3 with 12:25 remaining. 
Stars 6, Islanders 3 
Larry Murphy set up five goals, including two each by Mike Gartner and Neal Broten, as the Minnesota North Stars remained the NHL's only un­beaten team with a 6-3 victory over the New York Islanders Thursday night. 
Minnesota is 5-0-1 and has scored 26 goals, while allowing 16 in its best start in seven years. The North Stars also beat the Islanders 6-5 in the season opener. 
Gartner and Broten each scored a goal in the first period and had half of Minnesota's four goals in the second period. 
The North Stars broke it open with three goals in the fi­nal 7:36 of the middle period, including Dave Gagner's power­play score with one second re­maining in the session. The Islanders' Randy Wood had been ejected with a match penalty for attempting to injure Curt Giles, creating the man­power edge. 
Hawks 3, Rangers 3 Greg Gilbert's wrist shot off a pass from Troy Murray with 
3:21 to go gave the Chicago Blackhawks a 3-3 tie with the New York Rangers Tuesday night. 
Boxing Club gains experience for Bouts 
The Boxing Club held its novice tournament last Friday at the Joyce ACC. Although the name of the tournament sug­gests that the boxers don't have previous experience in the ring, the boxing was of high quality. 
"All the fighters really used their fundamentals," sai~ Club president Doug Biolchini. "A lot of times when they get m the ring for the first time, fighters forget to think, but everyone used what they learned well." 
Mike Kamradt Club Corner 

The fights kicked off with the 130 lb. class as Chris "Ned" Sneddon took on Shane Mickey. The bout was well fought by both fighters, but Sneddon was able to use his jab well to propel him to victory. 
"It was a lot of fun," said Sneddon. "I have a lot to learn before the Bengals. Since I started though, I've learned a lot about the fudamentals." 
At !38 lbs. , Craig Tiller won over Kevin Prendeville. David Iverson defeated David Nouhauer at 145 lbs. and at 150 lbs. Pat LeRoe beat Joe Kerrigan. In the latter fight, the two fighters battled each other evenly until LeRoe was finally able to use his reach advantage to gain the victory. 
At 155 lbs. Mike Murray won against Andres Rodriquez and Pat Murphy beat Craig Guffey at 158 pounds. Guffey was hurt in the second round, but managed to hold off his opponent's attack and and finish the fight. 
The next fight was an exhibition between club officer Dave Cane and novice Steve Kubinski. Cane used his experience well as he was constantly on the move and slipping in punches. Kubinski held his own showing good style and form. 
The day's best fight was in the 160 lb. division where Tim Trainor met Tim Tyvand. Trainor, who had the help of his Bengal Bout champion brother in getting ready for the fight, used a very aggressive style while Tyvand took advantage of his reach. The aggressiveness of Trainor eventually proved to be the deciding factor in the fight. 
The rest of the tournament saw Mike Boutin defeat Mike Rubino, J.P. McNeil down John Rapchinski, Justin Moran over Mike Folgia, Pat Walsh beating Chris Sullivan, and at the 197 lb. division, Greg Cooper win a decision over John Donahoe. 
The good fights in the novice tournament should prove to carry over to next spring's Bengal Bouts and once again provide the spectators with a good display of boxing. The fans present at the novice tournament got a small taste of what is to come in the future. 
The Rugby Club had a disappointing weekend against Kalamazoo College as the A side lost 26-13 and the B side was dropped 7-6. In the A side game the Irish came out flat again. 
"I don' t know what's wrong," said president Mike Smiggen. "We just can't seem to get up for the beginning of the game." 
Notre Dame fell behind 16-3 at the half with Sean McNamara scoring the Irish points on a penalty kick. Less than a minute into the second half the Irish had another de­fensive breakdown and fell behind 20-3. Notre Dame rallied to play well for the rest of the half, but it was too little too late. 
"We just didn't adapt fast enough and we had problems of our own," said Smiggen. "Our forwards played pretty well, but we had a lot of trouble with their backs." 
The Sailing Club traveled to Ohio over the weekend to com­pete in the Ohio State Regatta. The Irish finished 5th out of 15 teams that included Midwest powers Michigan, Michigan State, and Western. Michigan. The A division was skippered by Patti Losinske with Paige Cooper and Paul Matier splitting time as the crew in the 6th place finish for the weekend. The B boat finished in 2nd with Lisa Fox at skipper and Laura Sullivan as the crew. The Irish missed 4th place by only a few points. 
The next big weekend for the club is the Area Eliminations on the weekend of November 5th. There are 3 areas in the Midwest and the top three from each one will compete in the Midwestern Collegiate Sailing Association Championships the following weekend. 
T011v10RROW NIGHT 8:00pm Montgomery "Theatre LaFortune Center Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series PRESENTS 
Ronald Homer Nn·as CEO Boston Bank of Commerce 
with a lecture entitled 
Economics and Race America's Challenge for the 21st Century 
Sponsored by Student Alumni Relations Group ND Finance Club League of Black Business Students S.A.R.G. LBBS 
Davis always ready when the secondary needs a boost 
By KEN TYSIAC Sports Writer 

In speaking of his increased playing time on the Notre Dame football team, junior safety Greg Davis sounds like a preacher exhorting his congre­gation to live a holy life. 
"You never know when you're going to get the call," says Davis, speaking of his role as a reserve coming off the bench to relieve D'Juan Francisco and Pat Terrell, "You have to be ready at all times." 
"I didn't play very much last year, but the other defensive backs help me out a lot because they are confident in my ability. So it's not like there's any pres­sure on me when I come into the game," he continued. 
In a defensive secondary, con­fidence in the abilities of your teammates is crucial to success because everybody is responsi­ble for their own man or zone. Fellow junior Todd Lyght, who starts at cornerback, is one of those who is in Davis's confi­dence corner. 
"Greg fits in well in the sec­ondary," praises Lyght, "He's one of the strongest hitters we have in the defensive backfield. Greg really likes to express himself by making a big colli­sion with a receiver on the field." 
One of those big collisions in practice early in the year left Greg with a broken thumb. But he did his best to practice every day despite the pain. Lyght thinks Davis proved a lot to his teammates by gritting his teeth and taking the injury in stride. 
"Greg showed a lot of tough­ness by coming to practice while he was injured and catch­ing the ball with a cast on. He really set a good example for our younger players by showing 

Greg Davis 

them that you can practice when you are hurt," says Lyght. 
Davis modestly downplays his 
bravery. "The injury wasn't re­
ally that bad," he says, "It was 
only difficult to catch and grab 
with the injured hand," 

Greg's persistence earned him a spot as backup to safety 
D'Juan Francisco, and when Francisco went down with a painful leg cramp with the Irish clinging to a tenuous lead late in the Stanford game two weeks ago, Davis got his call from coach Lou Holtz. He re­sponded by causing a fumble with a big hit on a Stanford re­ceiver and forcing the Cardinal to punt with an important third 
down tackle. 

"It felt good to make the big plays and help the team," says Davis, "I want to contribute to the team the best that I can and hopefully if I get the chance to start some time in the future, I'll be ready." 
Davis and his fellow defen­sive backs had better be ready for their next two games. USC and Pittsburgh both have red­shirt freshman quarterbacks who are coming into their own. This Saturday, the Irish will have to contend with Todd Marinovich, who has been giv­ing PAC-1 0 opponents fits this season. 
Davis says that to be success­ful against the Trojans, the Irish secondary will have to "be very physical and stay with our assignments. We'll have to re­ally concentrate out there and do what we're supposed to do. Everybody out there will have to discipline himself to play his own position, because if we start trying to play our team­mates' positions we will get burned." 
With the improvement of Greg Davis, Irish fans should worry a lot less about their fa­vorite team getting burned in the secondary. "Greg has really matured a lot this year," says Todd Lyght, "He is becoming a dominant player in the sec­ondary." 
Defense dominating in IH football 
Cavanaugh, Morrissey remain among unbeaten teams 
By CHRIS FILLIO 
Sports Writer 

In the fourth week of men's interhall football action, all seven games resulted in shutouts, including one score­less tie. 
Games in the Leahy Division were both decided by a 6-0 score. Cavanaugh continued its bid for an undefeated season by downing the once mighty Stanford Studs with but a sin­gle score. 
Cavanuagh plowed 75 yards for their touchdown, a one­yard scamper by senior two­way man Trent Boneau. Quarterback Chris Fox fueled the drive with connections of 42 and 23 yards to Hoger Ptak and Dave Hichardson, respectively. 
"The defense played a great ballgame," said coach Ken Cotter. "They really rose to the occasion." 

Defensive standouts included Boneau, John Niehaus, Flip Molloy and Kyle Sullivan, hold­ing Stanford to only one first down, which was converted on a pass interference call. 
In the other division game, Alumni bested Zahm with the same 6-0 score. 
In the Parsegian Division, Off Campus beat Keenan and Dillon topped Flanner, both by a 14-0 score. Morrissey completed the shutout circus with a 6-0 vic­tory over Grace. 
"We played from the heart in that game," said Morrissey head coach Dave Shaw, "and Grace was a tough team to beat." 
Morrissey drove the length of the field with some big ground gains by Brian Doherty, who also punched it in for the touchdown. Holding Grace to minimal first down conver­sions, Morrissey remained among the unbeaten elites. 
Play in the Rockne Division saw Fisher down St. Ed's, 7-0, with a rare occurence of the often-elusive extra point. The Pangborn Violence and the Sorin Otters battled to a score­less tie. 
On Wednesday, men's inter­hall football will return to Cartier Field, with four games slated to be played under the lights. At 7:00 p.m., Alumni faces Holy Cross. The Vermin will meet the Otters as Carroll squares off against Sorin at 
8:00 p.m., in a game which could help shape the playoff picture. Dillon will put its unde­feated record on the line against Keenan in the 9:00 p.m. game. The final game of the evening will pit Flanner against unbeaten Morrissey at 10:00 p.m. 
ND men's soccer to host DePaul 
Observer Staff Report 

Having ended a six-game winless streak earlier this week, the Notre Dame soccer team looks to continue its win­ning ways at 3:30 p.m. Wednesday with an afternoon match against DePaul at Alumni Field. 
The Irish are coming off a 9­2 Monday home victory over Valparaiso that improved their record on the year to 6-5-3. 
Notre Dame has defeated DePaul, 4-9-1, every time in the nine-game history between the two Great Lakes Hegion schools. Tim Green and Handy Stedman lead the Blue Demon scoring attack, while goal­keeper Hich Horwath has posted a 2.31 goals against av­erage. 

Former Irish goalkeeper Danny Coughlin coaches the DePaul squad. 
In Monday's victory over Valparaiso, the Irish ended a three-game scoring drought in impressive fashion. Freshman Kevin Pendergast led the Notre Dame effort with a hat trick, and sophomore Kenyon Meyer recorded two goals and one as­sist. 
Tom Connaghan, Mitch Kern, Paul Kaemmerer and Peter Sanchez also scored goals in the win over Valparaiso. 
The Irish had not scored a goal in over a week prior to the Valpo contest, losing 4-0 to Santa Clara and having score­less ties with Cal. State-Los· Angeles and Akron. 
Notre Dame will conclude its homestand at 7:30 p.m. Friday with a match against Midwest Collegiate Conference rival Loyola at Krause Stadium. 
Notre Dame senior goal­keeper Danny Lyons could break the school's career ap­pearance record in Friday's match. John Milligan currently holds the record of 60 appear­ances from 1978-81. 
Lyons had played in 57 games entering this week. 
Happy "'21"st Birthday Tom O'Rourke 
Love, Mom, Dad, Kelley 


Weekend Schedule of Events 
Thursday, October 19 
7 p.m. Baseball Irish Fall Classic: Notre Dame vs. USC Coveleski Stadium 
Friday, October 20 
6 p.m. Tennis Notre Dame vs. USC Eck Tennis Pavillion 
7 Pep Rally Joyce ACC Fieldhouse 
7:30 Soccer Notre Dame vs. Loyola Moose Krause Field 
8 Baseball Irish Fall Classic Notre Dame vs. USC Coveleski Stadium 
1 0 Basketball Men's lntrasquad Scrimmage Joyce ACC Arena 
Saturday October 21 
10:30  a.m.  Cross Country  
Notre Dame women vs. Marquette  
1 1  Cross Country  
Notre Dame men vs. USC  
2:30 p.m.  Football  
Notre Dame vs. USC  


Vista is in town 
Learn more about career opportunities in business for science and engineering students. ND'89 graduates will present Vista Chemical Company's Business Career De­velopment Program on Wednesday, October 18 at 7:30 
p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center. Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors are welcome. 
VISTA 
Vista Chemical Company, Houston, Texas An Ecp~l Opporkmily Employer M/F 


Wednesday, October 18, 1989 The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 
Tuesday 



SUB says to ALL STUDENTS: CGIID~ IP~)Y~J.B1IIDIID222 This isn't just any old pep rally! It's the N]]) '1~~ UJ§(C IPJEIP JRAJLJL'X Sponsored by IRISH INSANITY ftiJ,J.Y: 
Featuring: TROJAN HORSE on Fieldhouse Mall 
4:30-6:30 
IFill.JEJE Soft Drinks Parade around campus with the TROJAN HORSE 6:30-7:00 
PEP RALLY for STUDENTS (not ·ust Alumni!!!) at ACC 
3:30 p.m. Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering pre­sents "Numerical Stimulation of Turbomachinery," by John Adamczyk, NASA, Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. 
7:30 p.m. Women's Soccer vs. Chicago. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Teriyaki Cubed Steak Top Round of Beef Meatballs Sweet & Sour Pork Veggie Casserole Broccoli Cheddar Potato Veal Parmesan Grinder Deli Bar 

ACROSS 27 Novel by 54 Gullet Fielding 
56 Vacation spot 1 Matted wool 
30 Jabber; prattle 

61 Shake up 5 Stowe character 
33 Jewish festival 
63 Bellowa Mr. Muscles 36 Kilmer poem 64 Desdemona's13 Beneficiary of a 

sort 37 Sigma follower detractor 
38 Link 65IV x XXVII

14 Actor Asther 40 Nautical 66 Silkworm
16 Straighten direction 67 Raisa's rejection 17 Madame Bovary 

41 Violinist Morini 

68 Israeli port 18 Strike out 44 Change the 69 City lines 
19 Lariat focus of 70 Lares or Aesir 
20 Vacation spot 47Pallas­23 La Scala's N.Y 49 Arden and Light nval 50 Battery terminals DOWN 24 Beauty 
53 Dottle 1 Lean-to 25 Taiwan's capital component 

2 Half: Prefix 3 Purposes 4 Farms 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
5 Keats opus 6 Prospect 7 Distribute aln difficulty 9 Cantab's rival 
10 Vacation spot 11 Stud player's 
B-~:.-t=~r.:+::+:=+::::-~-=+::-:+.:::-t=+=-:-t stake 
12 Trig 15 Evening, in Rom a 21 Lampreys 
-:±::+:'+=-! 22 Women's -­-=+:=+=:+:-! 26 Miscue -'-L._._..__. 27 Dissociated 
28 Vacation spot 29 State 31 Certain jabs 32 Superlative 
suffix 34 River in SW 
England 35 Unfinished 37 Brighton break 39 Nancy, Frank et 
al. 

COMICS 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
CAL\1\N, 'IOOR MOM fl.NO I LOOKEO 01/tR iO\JR RE?ORT O.R\), f>..NO Wt: T\111'\K iO\J COOL\) BE 0011'\G BrniR . 
Wilbur and Wendel 
W\-\'1 NOT " '(O\J l\KE TO 
REM) t>ND iOV LIKE TO 
LHRN. I KNClW '(OV 00. 
I MtAN, 'IOU'II£. ROO £'ffi{i DINOSP..\JR EmK.. EVER WR\1\EN, AKO '(OV'IIE 
LEARNED A. LOT, R\Gi-1\ ? RE.t>.I:>\NG AI'-\C> LEf>.RN\~G A~'.:. FUN. _ _____, 
BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
So W\.li ~T 
'IOV l\K.E SCI-\OOL" 

Jay Hosler 
"It's no use .... We've just got to get ourselves a real damsel." 

42 Keltner or Boyer of baseball 43 Loss of the sense of smell 45 -ha-Shanah 46 Repetitious 48 Huxtable or Rehan 51 lnnisfail 52 Midnight "music" 
54 Airspeed number 55 PartofTAE. 57 Shadow 58 Actress Virginia 59 Long in the tooth 60 Topers 
62Er-, Moroccan region 

' \ 
• ,, \ \ l 
Sports 
Wednesday, October 18, 1989
page 16 

San Francisco earthquake postpones Series 
Associated Press Oakland, where the A's won the Gregg, "but I was scared started because a power trans­first two games Saturday and senseless. I couldn't lit under former is out," Vincent said. 
SAN FHANCISCO -The World Series was postponed Tuesday night when an earthquake shook northern California shortly before gametime, damaging and forc­ing evacuation of crowded Candlestick Park. 
A decision on when and where Game 3 of the first-ever Bay Bridge series between the Oakland Athletics and the San Francisco Giants will be played will not be made until Wednesday. A section of the Bay Bridge itself collapsed. 
Baseball commissioner Fay Vincent said there were !Tacks in the stadium and the extent of damage would not be known until later in the night. No ma­jor injuries were reported. 
One possibility was that the series would be moved back to Sunday. 
A section in the upper stands in right field separated by about six inches, and several cracks ran down the concrete aisle and broke off. Fans were carrying them home ·as sou­venirs. 
"The people two to three rows in front of me had big pieces of metal several inches, fall on their heads," said David Guzzetti, a city council member from Chico, Calif. "The light towers were just rocking back and forth. I couldn't believe it." 
The quake registered 6.5 to 
7.0 on the Richter scale 10 miles north of Santa Cruz. It shook buildings in Sacramento, 95 miles to the northeast, and was felt as far away as Heno, Nev., 225 miles to the east. 
Aftershocks continued at 
*·

least 45 minutes after the quake struck at 5:05 p.m. PDT. Players stayed on the field for 30 minutes before the game was postponed. Many of them left hand-in-hand with their families. 
"I was sitting on the bench and at first I thought it was the fans stamping (their feet}," said Oakland manager Tony La 
Hussa. "Then right away I real­ized what was happening." 
"You can't stop concrete," Oakland outfielder Dave Henderson said, "Forget the World Series." 
"I try to be a big tough guy," said 6-foot-3 umpire Eric 

Irish catcher Ed Lund and the rest of the baseball team prepare to take on USC this weekend. Lund, the captain of the 1990 Notre Dame team, will lead the young Irish squad against Mike Gillespie and the USC Trojans in a two-game exhibition series this week at Coveleski Stadium. 
NO women's soccer team looking to extend 8-game winning streak 
By DAVID DIETEMAN Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's soccer team (11-6), which ex­tended its winning streak to eight games with inspired vic­tories over Alma College and Saint Mary's this past weekend, takes on the University of Chicago tonight at 7:30 at Moose Krause Stadium in its last home game of the 1989 season. 
Last Friday, the Irish women defeated Alma College of Michigan by a considerable margin for their tenth win of the season, as opposed to six losses. The·win over Alma set a new record of eight consecutive wins in a season for the women, again besting the pre­vious high of six consecutive wins set last year. 
On Monday night, the Irish women looked to extend that record winning streak to nine games, and that they did, earn­ing a crucial 1-0 decision over Saint Mary's College for their eleventh win of the year. • 
Notre Dame's lone goal came on a first half score by sopho­more forward Susie Zilvitis. Meanwhile freshman, goal­keeper Michelle Lodyga had several critical saves late in the second half, and the talented Irish defensive unit did their jobs to preserve the win. The tough work ethic of the Notre 

Dame women was especially evident in the second half, as the Irish made good use of their staggering depth, with frequent substitutions and in­tense play. 
"These girls played really hard and did really well. We had a tremendous first half, and the team really pulled to­gether to get this victory. Saint Mary's played very well, to their credit," said head coach Dennis Grace. "This was our eighth win in a row, and I'm very proud of and very hopeful for these girls. Still, we need to have a good game against Chicago, because after that game we_ go to the Virginia Classic and the Midwest Collegiate Conference Tournament." 
Tonight's game versus Chicago is pivotal to the team's hopes for the season, as it is not only the last home game of the 1989 season, but also the last match before the Notre Dame women h·ave to face na­tionally ranked Virginia and Duke. Additionally, the Midwest Collegiate Conference Tournament, from which the Irish came away empty-handed last year, looms ominously on the horizon for this young team. 
However, it would be nothing short of wrong to dismiss Notre Dame's chances. As coach Grace stated, "As far as Chicago is concerned, they are going to have to come in here ready to play. Notre Dame is going to be tough to beat, as Saint Mary's found out. We're going out ready to play hard." 
Finally, though some onlook­ers may be startled by Notre Dame's rampant success of late, determined play and win­ning are certainly not unchar­acteristic of this year's edition of Notre Dame women's soccer. 
"Even though we started the season at 2-6, we were playing well. Grace said. "Really, our competition dictated our win­loss record in those first few games. It's easy to get down in the face of adversity, but our girls didn't do that. We beat Indiana to start this winning streak, and that's something we've never done before." 
the table and finally I went to stand under some arches." 
Oakland slugger Jose Canseco was standing with his wife when the tremor hit. lie said he looked up at fans yelling at him and thought, "Jeez, look at that. They still want us to play." 
An hour after the earthquake was felt, about two-thirds to three-fourths of the sellout crowd of 60,000 were still in their seats, but police began evacuating the upper deck about 5:40 p.m., 10 minutes after the game was scheduled to start and moments after a second aftershock was felt at the ballpark. 
The power in the stadium was knocked out and phone lines were disturbed.. 
"The game couldn't be 
"We have to wait to sec if the power comes back on. We arc not going to start the game un­less we get lights." 
ABC, which was on the air from Candlestiek Park at the time, announced it lost the feed from its truck at the stadium. 
The network was doing its pre-game show when an­nouncer AI Michaels said: "There's an earth ... " and the picture was lost. 
The first aid station at Candlestick reported a few people were hit by falling debris and were being treated. None of the injuries was said to be serious. 
However, a 30-foot section of the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge collapsed and there 
see QUAKE! page 12 
USC baseball coach adjusts to pressure 
Heplacing a legendary figure like Hod Dedeaux, perhaps the most revered college baseball coach of all time, might be too much for some to handle. 
For Southern California coach Mike Gillespie, it's business as usual. 
"It's been a tremendous responsibility and challenge; the heritage of USC baseball is the best in the country," said Gillespie, whose team has a two-game exhibition series with Notre Dame this week. "But we've been so busy that we haven't been caught up in worry." 
Steve Megargee 
Irish Hems o.. :, 
USC plays Notre Dame at 7 p.m Thursday and 8:30 p.m. Friday at Coveleski Stadium. Shuttle buses will take students from campus to the stadium and back both nights. 
Gillespie is in his fourth year at USC since replacing the re­tired Dedeaux, who made Trojan national titles practically an annual event in the 1970s and whose former players could make up a major league all-star team. The fact that Dedeaux continues to assist the program in retirement makes the transition easier, according to Gillespie. 
And when you're in a conference like the Six-Pac, one actu­ally does get too busy to worry about other things. The con­ference includes the entire Pac-1 0 minus the Oregon and Washington schools and produces so many College World Series teams that it drew major attention last summer when no Six-Pac teams made the trip to Omaha. 
"Very seldom has that happened over the last 30 years," said Gillespie. 
Prior to then, the Six-Pac had produced the last three na­tional champions (Arizona in 1986, Stanford in '87 and '88). The 1988 national title game was between conference foes Stanford and Arizona State. 
"There's not a weak link," said Gillespie. "Every week you go out, and it's a grind. But it's great fun when you're in that high level of competition." 
That brutal schedule may explain why USC has not enjoyed the success in recent seasons than it was accustomed to sev­eral years back. The Trojans' luck could be changing this spring. 
USC returns eight starters and almost its entire pitching staff from a team that reached the NCM tournament last year. 
"It was a surprise," Gillespie says of the team's perfor­mance last season. "Our freshmen played beyond what we anticipated of them." 
Gillespie is particularly high on his team's hitting attack, which features Brett Boone (son of major league great Bob), Brett Jenkins, Murph Proctor and Mark Smith. 
Trojan centerfielder John Jackson will not be playing for the baseball team this week because of his commitments as the starting split end on the USC football team. 
"They're loaded, perhaps the best baseball team ever to play at Coveleski," said Notre Dame baseball coach Pat Murphy. "It must be very difficult to replace Dedeaux, who won 11 national championships and still stands as a legend in college baseball. 
"Mike Gillespie has his own dynasty building, and you'll start to see it this year. The way you recall Rockne and then Leahy, you'll think about Dedeaux and Gillespie." 
see ITEMS I page 12 




