
VOL. XXII, NO. 130 MONDAY, MAY 1, 1989 ' THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S ' ~ 
Reggie Ho named for senior award 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Reggie Ho is the winner of the Notre Dame Alumni Asso­ciation's 1989 Distinguished Student Award. 
Ho is well known as the five­foot, five-inch, 135 pound place kicker for the football team. This award recognizes Ho for his service to the community and to the University, said Richard Daly, assistant direc­tor of alumni clubs. 


Daley said the criteria for the award is: South Bend. 
• 
Good academic standing Ho tutored for the Neighboor­

• 
Service to the surrounding hood Study Program at La community Casa de Amistad, he has helped 

• 
Service to the University raise funds for a child in need 


Ho is a preprofessional of a liver transplant, visited a senior student with a 3.77 hospitalized diabetic child cumulative grade point named Reggie and later spoke average. According to a press to the child's elementary release, Ho has participated in various commuity services in see HO I page 6 

Mrs. Marilyn Quayle, wife of Vice President Dan Quayle, feeds the kangaroos on a nature reserve in Canberra during their Australian visit. 
FACULTY UNIONIZATION 



ND Faculty Senate considers unionization 
By FLORENTINE of input from the faculty on has little say in University changes. However, the senate tions: leave the senate in its HOELKER University policy may result policy. has no real power to affect current condition, disband the Senior Staff Reporter in the unionizing of the faculty The senate, as described by changes in University policy. senate, or unionize the fac­
at Notre Dame. the 1988 Faculty Handbook, is This fact has some mem­ulty. 
~ditor's note: This is the limited to "formulating fac­bers of the Faculty Senate However, many faculty first part of a two-part story At the last Faculty Senate ulty opinion." considering options that could consider the latter two options on the possible unionization of meeting of April13, members In this regard, the senate possibly alter the state of the to be extreme measures to be the Notre Dame faculty. of the senate expressed disap­may pass resolutions con­senate and of the faculty. used only in the face of a lack 
The growing dissatisfaction pointment in the fact that the cerning matters of concern to One member of the senate, of better alternatives. recently expressed by the faculty of Notre Dame, as the faculty, and recommend Robert Kerby, proposed that Faculty Senate with the lack represented by the senate, that the University adopt the senate consider three op-see FACULTV I page 5 

AP Photo

In a painful protest 
A radical student who suffered a head injury fighting riot police at Yonsei University is taken away by police. Thousands of riot police stopped radical students trying to march to Panmunjom for talks with rival NoFth Korea. 

58 arrested in raid on McCormick's 
By CATHY FLYNN 
Staff Reporter 
McCormick's Coney Island, a tavern on Michigan Avenue, was raided by the State Police Friday night. A total of 58 people were arrested, accor­ding to a spokesman for the In­diana State Police. 
Nineteen people were charged with loitering in a tavern as a minor. Two people were arrested for possession of false identification and one for interfering with a policeman, the spokesman said. 
No information was avail­able on the identity of those ar­rested or their possible connec­tion to Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. 
Those arrested received cita­tions and must appear in court, said the spokesman. 
Rumors circulated that The Commons, on Eddy Street, was also raided this weekend. Nei­ther the State Police nor the South Bend Police substan­tiated this, however. Sergeant Feirell, of the St.Joseph County police, was not available for comment. 

NO fundraising at $339.7 million 

By SARAH VOIGT 
Senior Staff Reporter 
"Notre Dame: A Strategic Moment," a fundraiser that aims to improve the Univer­sity's undergraduate program, its Catholic character, and its graduate education and re­search, has surpassed its 300 million dollar goal with a year and a half remaining. 
The campaign has currently collected $339.7 million from alumni, parents, friends of the University, and corporations. This sum represents an in­crease of 15 percent percent over its total at this time last fiscal year. 
"The Strategic Moment Campaign" aspires to improve the undergraduate program through greater endowments of scholarships. A 60 million dollar goal for undergraduate scholarships is the largest single priority of this far reach­ing fundraiser. 
According to Director of De­velopment Joseph Sandman, this money will be used to try to attract the brightest stu­dents in the country. The Uni­versity also hopes that the·ad­ditional scholarships will attract students that reflect all economic and ethnic groups. Forty million dollars have been collected so far. 
The campaign also aims to preserve Notre Dame's religi­ous orientation and Catholic heritage. For example, the campaign hopes to raise $12.5 million for the Institute for Pas­toral and Social Ministry. 
The campaign also strives to improve the University's graduate education and re­search where it still has a "long way to go," said Sandman. "We need to achieve distinction as a great research university. We also need to create a more widely acknowledged graduate program." 
The campaign has already fulfilled its $42 million goal for endowed professorships. An­other important campaign 
see FUNDS I page 5 
Monday, May 1 , 1989


page 2 The Observer 
WORLD BRIEFS 



Bookstore referees are 
Attendance has soared at th~ Roman Catholic cathedral in Matamoros Mexico as unease and superstition haunt the bor­der valley wh~re authorities say 15 people were rituall~ murder~d 


a necessary control 
by a drug smuggling cult. There has been a m~rke~ mcreas~ m 
attendance at services communion and confession smce the frrst 12 bodies were exhum'ed at Santa Elena ranch April 11. Inves­tigators say the ranch sacrifice did not involve Satanism but a deviant form of the Mro-Cuban religion Palo Mayombe, known for using human body parts in its rituals. 
A strong earthquake struck Mexico City and Acapulco on Tuesday, cracking buildings and an aqueduct, shattering glass and panicking thousands of people who remembered the killer quake of 1985. One man was electrocuted when power cables fell on him, and two women were seriously injured when they jumped in panic from the second story of a swaying building during the 8:26a.m. quake, officials said. 
A huge asteroid skip~ing off Eart~ at a l~w angle_ may have kicked thousands of giant boulders mto orbit, creatmg a shower of meteorites that gradually killed off the dinosaurs, a scientist says. Brown University geologist Peter Schultz's re­search seeks to answer a key objection to the theory that dinosaurs and many other species 66 million years ago died out because a large object struck the planet, raising a dust cloud that blocked sunlight and wiped out food sources. 
NATIONAL BRIEFS 
Boston Harbor is getting cleaner, but state officials say that's in spite of foot-dragging by the man who made its filth famous: George Bush. Bush sailed in during the presidential campaign last September and accused Gov. Michael Dukakis of neglecting an important environmental issue in his own state. Now, the governor and his top environmental aides are wondering when President Bush will put his money where his mouth was. They want the $59 million recommended for the harbor cleanup by Congress but deleted from Bush's budget. 

The government should reopen an investigation into the deaths of more than 750 bottlenose dolphins on the Atlantic Coast to determine whether pollutants weakened their immune sys­tems, say two New Jersey congressmen. The most likely cause of the dolphins' deaths was fish tainted by a naturally occurring neurotoxin, known as brevetoxin, found in red tide algae swept north from the Gulf of Mexico, said a report released jointly last week by the National Marine Fisheries Service, Office of Naval Research and Marine Mammal Commission. But it also said brevetoxin was found in tissue samples from only eight of 17 beached dolphins tested. 
The errant underwater robot Jason was raised from the deep Saturday, breathing new life into a $7 million international satellite science project whose submersible star had un­ceremoniously sunk. The 7-foot-long, remote-control robot will be on center stage Monday as the first of 250,000 students in 13 cities across the United States and Canada hook up via a two-way satellite with marine explorers in the Mediterranean Sea. 
WEATHER 


Rain of terror 
Cloudy and cool with a 60 percent chance of rain today. Highs in the 60s. Mostly cloudy and very cool tonight and Tuesday with a 30 percent chance of light rain. Lows in the 40s. Highs Tuesday in the 60s. 
ALMANAC 

On May 1: e In 1786: Mozart's opera "The Marriage of Figaro" premiered in 
Vienna. e In 1931: New York City's 102­story Empire State Building was 
dedicated. e In 1948: The People's Demo­cratic Republic of Korea, North Korea, 
was proclaimed. e In 1963: James Whittaker of Redmond, Wash., became the first American to conquer Mount Everest as 
he and a Sherpa guide reached the summit. e In 1971: Amtrak began opera­tions. e Ten Years Ago: George 
Bush formally announced his candi­dacy for the Republican presidential nomination, which he would lose the following year to Ronald Reagan. 
MARKET UPDATE 

S&P 500 +o.32 to 309.26 
Currency exchange 
Mark ...006 to 1.8795 OM/$ 
Yen +0.80 to 132.80 ¥/$ 
Pound+.0010 to 1.689 $/£ 
Precious Metals Gold +$6.70 to $377.55 I oz. Silver+ 0.044¢to $5.601 I oz. 
>ource: Prudential Bache Securities 
An Tostal '89 drew to a close yesterday in traditional fashion, with the Bookstore finals being played before a standing room only crowd at the Stepan Courts. All the ingredients of a basketball game of major proportions were present as the finalists in the mens and womens tourneys met: great players showing off their incredible skills, fans cheering loudly for their favorite team, and referees being verbally as­saulted by the crowd on a continuous basis. 
As a referee with three years of Non-Varsity Athletics and Bookstore basketball experience, I can attest to one fact without any hesitation: the majority of Notre Dame students who com­pete on the basketball court do so with the ut­most seriousness. For some, this feeling ap­proaches a reverence for the game which knows no boundaries .. This attitude turns the annual Bookstore Tournament into a modern day Quest for the Holy Grail with the ultimate prize being the admiration and respect of the basketball crazy student body. 
With such fame and glory on the line during each game, and a single loss resulting in elim­ination from that year's quest, tensions and tempers tend to run high during these contests. At times, the tension is so great that a single action--such as a errant elbow or a forceful bump--can cause tempers to erupt. One exam­ple of this was the mini-riot on Stepan last week which attracted everyone's attention. In all of these games, it is the job of the referee to keep the game and the players' tempers under con­trol. 
Often, it is hard to determine where to draw the line between "letting them play" and keeping control on the court. This not a problem singular to the mens game, however. While the Women's Bookstore Basketball players lack the size and bulk more prevalent in their male coun­terparts, they play the game with no less inten­sity. 
This year's women's tournament proved to be no different as the teams arrived in the Sweet Sixteen where the real competition began in full force. When I look back on the games I refereed as part of this tournament, one will stand out particularly in my mind. The only way to describe this contest was as a war, where the teams banged and bumped and pushed until only one was left standing. 
Matching two of the top seeds, this truly was 

OF INTEREST 
SUB Campus Entertainment meets tonight at 6:30p.m. in the Sorin Room, LaFor­tune, for a committee organization meeting. 
Any campus bands interested in playing at campus events next year, particularly Wel­come Week should come to a short meeting tonight at 6~30 p.m. in the SUB Office, LaFor­tune. Call Scott at 283-1392 for more informa­tion. 
Senior Formal proofs can be ordered at the LaFortune information desk until Tuesday, May 2. Senior Formal "formal" and candid pic­tures will be distributed May 8. 
Campus Activities Night applications 

are available in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune. Pick one up by May 12 to reserve space for next year's event. Call 239-7308 for more information. 

'It is the job of the referee to keep the game and the players' tempers under control.' 
RICH IANNELLI Business Manager 

a game that no one deserved to lose. I did not start out working that particular game, but as it progressed and began to get excessively physical I was asked by the bookstore commis­sioner to switch to that court. The last points of that game, which stretched into overtime, seemed like an eternity as the players pushed themselves to their maximum capabilities. Needless to say, one of my calls ended up as the winning point when the player fouled con­verted from the foul line. 
As almost any referee in Bookstore would probably tell you, that's the last place you'd like to see a game end. While the losing players felt that they were the victims of a "touch" foul, I stood by the call and feel the same way now. I do have sympathy for them though, seeing as how they had to adapt to the style of the different referees that were shuttled through their game for one reason or another. While both teams were subject to this adversity, I believe that it should not have ended up this way. When a referee has to be taken from an­other game for the sole reason of trying to con­trol excessively physical play and prevent in­juries, I think this is a little off from the·true spirit of Bookstore. The tournament's main pur­pose is to provide fun and enjoyment for the participants, not to foster a "win at any cost" attitude. 
Next time you're at a game, try to put your­self in the shoes of the ref. Often, you have about five seconds to make a call as bodies collide and fly by at a rapid pace. Sometimes you miss what seems to be obvious to the crowd and other times you want to swallow your whistle, but nobody's perfect. So how about giving the referees a break once in a while? 
Rich Iannelli is a junior accounting major. He serves as Business Manager for The Observer. 
Geographical Clubs sponsoring 
baggage trucks must register with the Student Activities Office by Wednesday, May 3, in Room 315 LaFortune. 
Yearbooks will be distributed today 
through Wednesday from noon to 4 p.m. in the Yearbook Office, third floor, LaFortune. 
Seniors who received room deposit 
donation cards are asked to put their name and ID number on this card and return it the Student Residences, Room 311 Administration Building. 
Senior Month tickets are on sale today through Thursday in Room 108 LaFortune from 3 to 5:30p.m. 
Iceberg Debate Committee positions are being filled for next year. Those interested in any aspect of the debates are encouraged to contact Joe McKenna or the Student Body Pres­ident or Vice President. 
---. ----.L-=Y~'-' ---­
-Ih-e-Obse.-~~r-­
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-7471 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students ol the Un1versity of Notre Dame and Saint Mar{s College. Subscriptions may be pur­chased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
The Observer is a member of The Assoc1ated Press. All reproduction rights 
Monday's Staff 
Design Editor ... -.................. Mark Mclaughlin Typesetter .................................. Andy Schlidl News Editor ................................. Greg Lucas Copy Editor............................ Janice O'Leary Sports Copy Editor .................... Greg Guffey VIewpoint Copy Editor ............. Kelly Golden Accent Editor ....................... Robyn Simmons Accent Copy Editor........ Michelle Berninger Accent Designer....................... Alison Cocks ............................................... Mark Mclaughlin Typist........................................... _ Will Zamer .........._......................................... Oiana Bradley NO Day Editor ............... Margaret McCloskey .................______ .....-................_.Jennifer Richards SMC Day Editor.................. Rozel Gatmaitan Ada Designer .............................. Todd Figura 

are reserved. ................................................. Shannon Roach 
Information compiled from Observer wires and Observer staff reports. 




L____________________________~ 
It's final exam time and you're feeling a little Come into Coconuts now and unprepared because the only thing you've get any of these 10 top hits for the read all semester was your spring break special low price of just $5.88 for itinerary, and the only attendance record cassette or LP and just $11.88 for you have is at happy hour. So you've compact disc. Not only will you be decided to lock yourself in your room getting great music, but on the way you and cram a semester's worth of work can stop and pick up those text books into one weekend. Well, Coconuts you've been meaning to buy. Hurry in, appreciates your dilligence so we've sale ends 5/6/89. decided to help you take a break. 
1SANDMEN 
WESTERN BLOOD 
0 ' 
atUliaIncludes 'HOUSE IN TME COUNTllY" 'SAY YES' and 'I MET A GIRt: 
THE 

BONNIE RAITI
PROCLAIMERS 

Nick Of Time
SUNSHINE ON LEITH 


r~ ..
...
I 
J
( \
''~ 
.. '
~I 
....... 
~~ 
CkrpoU 

CASS/LP $5.88; CD $11.88 CASS/LP $5.88; CD $11.88 CASS/LP $5.88; CD $11.88 

THE CULT SONIC TEMPLE 

CASS/LP $5.88; CD $11.88 


MUSIC & MOVIES 
Mishawaka, 5784 N. Grape Road, Indian Ridge Plaza, (112 mile west of University Mall), 271-9715 

Monday, May 1, 1989 page 5 
Faculty 
continued from page 1 Kerby, in his statement to the senate on April 13, said that if the senate disbanded, it would make "absolutely no differ­ence" in the current status of the lack of faculty input in Uni­versity policy. Senator Mohamed Gad-el­Hak agreed with Kerby, saying that if the senate had been dis­banded, it would have accom­plished very little. Gad-el-Hak commented that "the motion to disband the sen­ate was, in my opinion, a bit premature. There is no clear alternative to this particular mode of organization." "Movements to disband the senate and to reorganize the faculty grew out of frustrations over the faculty's lack of meaningful role in University governance," said Gad-el-Hak. 
The other alternative, accor­ding to Kerby, is to unionize the faculty. 
The senate plans to receive a proposal on May 2, submitted by Senator Philip Quinn, which suggests that . the senate "promptly undertake a prelim­inary investigation of the 
. prospects for faculty unioniza­
tion at Notre Dame and report to the senate no later than its October 1989 meeting the results of the investigation." 
Such an investigation would research the benefits of uni­onization and would find out "the conditions under which the Notre Dame faculty could vote to unionize." 
The whole goal of unionizing, according to Kerby, is to give the faculty a greater say in Uni­versity matters. "We're not talking about rule," said Kerby, "just representation." 
"I see an advantage in broader representation and participation (in University policy) with the faculty," said Kerby. 
The administration has refused to comment on the issue of the possible unioniza­tion of the faculty. 
University President Father Edward Malloy, C.S.C., and Vice President Father William Beauchamp, C.S.C., both declined to comment on the issue. Beauchamp said only that the issue "concerns the faculty." 
University Provost Timothy O'Meara said that the admin­istration has not discussed the issue of faculty unionization, and that it has "no opinion" yet on it. 
in Notre Dame's history. A 35 year old reign of the old admin­istration has come to a close. 

Funds 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame is on the threshold priority is to upgrade physical of becoming a great research facilities. The goal has already university by building on the been met and surpassed in this accomplishments of Hesburgh area. This money has helped to and Joyce." fund the law school addition, "There is a tremendous en­renovations in La Fortune and thusiasm about the new lead­North Dining Hall, and the con­ership. We think that the suc­struction of Siegfried and cess of the campaign is largely Knott. a function of people's confi­
Sandman said, "the response dence that Malloy and Beau­of generosity has surpassed champ will continue the prog­even our high expectations. ress begun in this area," said This reflects how enthustically Sandman. our alumni, friends, and par­ents endorse the mission of the "The Strategic Moment University. They want Notre Campaign" spans five years Dame to be a great research from 1985 to 1990. The Univer­university without compromis­sity launches a new fundraiser ing its Catholic character and every ten years. The last Cam­undergraduate program." paign for Notre Dame ran from 
Sandman explains the sig-· 1975 until 1980 and surpassed nifigance of the campaign's its 130 million dollar goal by $50 title. "This is a strategic time million. 
®
~ 

TI1E STORY OF THE IRISH CLADDAGH 
The Irish Claddagh story began in the 16th Ce11tury when Richard Joyce, a native of Galway was captured by Algerien Cosairs while on his way to the West Indies. He was sold as a sla•te to a wealthy Mooris.'l Goldsmith who trained him In the craft. His master took a great liking to him and offered him his freedom which Richard very happily accepted. He returned to his native county and settled down In the ancient village of Claddagh, just outside Galway city, whero he designed and mado the first Claddagh 
The design of the Irish Claddagh is simple, but 
yet unique: The Hand Signifies Friendship, The Crown Loyalty, And The Heart Love. 
The Irish Claddagh, because of its tradition and design grows daily In popularity and is being used internationally as a token.of great friendship and love. 
Call in & see our Fine Collection of C!addagh Jewelry at University Park Mall (Opposite Mldlady Shop) 
Tel 272-6757 


Spnng Htll Mall Harlem·hvong Plaza W Oundee.IL60118 ···-~ 1Q~ Chtc;~go.ll 
The Observer Monday, May 1, 1989
page 6 

' . 
·......·
.' 

Pope beatifies Malagasy woman 
Associated Press 
ANTANANARIVO, Madagascar--Pope John Paul II on Sunday beatified a 19th century woman who protected the Catholic Church from per­secution, lauding her as a model for women and lay people. 
The pope, on the third day of his visit to this Mrican island nation, also spoke against ine­quality and corruption. 
The pope beatified Victoire Rasoamanarivo in a three-hour service before a crowd esti­mated by local organizers at 
Ho 
continued from page 1 
school class. 
Ho, with characteristic humility, said "I'm very honored to win the award. It's not really my award, it's eveybody's award." Specifi­cally, Ho cited the people who had done community service for four years as truly deserv­ing the award. 
Ho plans to enter the Univer­sity of Pennsylvania's medical school next year and use his medical degree in a Third World country with the Peace Corps. 
Ho said he is seriously con­sidering living in a Third World country if he finds the Peace Corps experience to be reward­ing. 
In the application process, each faculty member is sent an application or nomination form and a cover letter, said Daly. thirty-five nominations were submitted this year, according to Daly. 
A committee headed by Fa­ther Andre Leveille, director of Campus Ministry, has chosen the winner among the nominees in the eight years that the award has been given, said Daly. 
This year Emil Hofman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies, John Goldrick, associ­ate vice president for residence life, a rector from a male dorm and a female dorm, and a fac­ulty member also served on the committee, said Daly. 

Students show lack of geographic savvy 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS--Reversing the poor geographic knowledge of Indiana students will require a change in the way teachers are trained and in the makeup of the public school curricu­lum, experts say. 
"It's going to take a couple of generations before you turn this around. We need to get people back on track, to realize what geography is and that it can be interesting," said Fred­erick Bein, chairman of the ge­ography department at In­diana . University-Purdue University at Indianapolis. 
In 1987-88, from 3 to 7 percent of the state's high school stu­dents took world geography, estimated Mary Fortney, a consultant for social studies in the department's Center for School Improvement. 
But only a little more than half of the state's high schools offer world geography. 
It's no wonder study after study has shown students' knowledge of geography to be dismal. A 1985 study of 2,276 In­diana college students found that 41 percent couldn't find the capital of the United States and 19 percent could not locate the Pacific Ocean. 
A 30-member task force ap­pointed by the Indiana Depar­tment of Education is studying ways to change that. Recom­mendations are due this sum­mer. 
One possibility is making ge­ography a required high school course. Now it is optional at most schools, required only by a few districts such as Mic­higan City. 
"Part of the problem is the need for our students to under­stand the importance of learn­ing about the rest ofthe world," Fortney explained. "Many stu­dents have very limited per­ception of education. They are sometimes not able to see the immediate use of world geog­raphy or world history." 
In order to meet minimum state standards to graduate, high school students have to take four semesters of social studies, but that has to include two semesters in U.S. history and one in U.S. government. The other semester is an elec­tive. 
The state also has set specific standards for the number of minutes of social studies in­struction in elementary and middle schools, ranging from 150 to 225. But each school determines what portion of that time is allotted to geography. 
Another part of the problem is many small colleges don't have geography courses for education majors and the larger ones don't require them, Bein said. · 
"I think more teachers are thinking about it," Bein .said. "But they're saying, 'I don't know what geography is--how can I teach it?"' 
G.Q., we've found your man! 
(But he's going to IrelandI) 
Good Luck and . we'll miss you! 
Love, Me & the group! 
500,000, about half the capital's population. Beatification is a first step toward possible sainthood. 
Mrs. Rasoamanarivo, who died in 1894 at 46, is considered the savior of the Roman Cath­olic Church in this nation of 11 million people, 22 percent of whom are Catholic. 
The granddaughter of a prime minister, she converted to the faith at 13, to the con­sternation of her pagan par­ents. 
When Catholic missionaries were expelled from Madagas­car in 1883, she fought to keep Catholic schools open, traveled the countryside to encourage the faithful and appealed to the royal family to respect religi­ous rights. 
When missionaries were al­lowed to return in 1886, they found the church was still thriv­ing. 
"Those few years of service left a reminder that is still very much alive," said the pope, speaking in French from a raised cement-and-red-brick altar. "She is a model for the lay faithful today." 
Don't be late getting home-­Get your car fixed before you leave. 

Call NATIONAL PARTS & REPAIR 233-2584 1509 W. Western Ave. 
Be one of our satisified customers! 
1988-89 RESIDENT ASSISTANTS Thanks for all you've done! 

Office of Residence Life  
Office of Student Affairs  
Paul Ackerman  David Condron  Jeannine Hallenbeck Allan Lim  Michael J. Quinn  William Sullivan  
Jill Adamonis  John Conmy  Robert Harrington Christine Lopack  John Raphael  Christine Sweeney  
Gianna Ahearn  Carole Cooper  Michelle Heintz James Lynn  Jennifer Rawert  Thomas Thesing  
Douglas Anderson  Robert Crean  Robert Helenbrook Terrence Maag  Richard Rehg  Dana Togni  
Patrick Atagi  John Delaney  James Henige Carmina Magnusen  David Reiter  Steve Trepiccione  
Cara Auth  Maria Dever  Michael Hergenrother Karen Marsh  Brian Richard  Matthew Uhoda  
Elizabeth Baker  Maureen Devlin  Melissa Houk Carl Mayer  Daniel Repper  John Vanderlaann  
David Baltierra  Jeffrey Dorschner  Tammy Houseworth Craig Merrrigan  Mark Rizzieri  Thomas Varnum  
Susan Bardi  Paul Drey  Susan Hrach Michael Mihelick  Charles Roach  William Wack  
Theresa Barnhart  Susan Droege  Michael Iannelli George Molinsky  Albert Romero  Kerrie Wagner  
Robert Bartolo  Kimberly Drzewiecki  Daniel lzzo Mark Monile  Bryan Samuels  Therese Walker  
Randy Battistoni  Norman Ebner  Jennifer Jagoe Heidi Mosier  Michael Schaeffer  Kevin Walsh  
Ricky Battistoni  Eric Emerson  Michael Jennings Ellen Mauch  Tom Schiesser  Thomas Walsh  
Julie Bernhardt  Mary Endres  David Kammer Joseph Mueller  Daniel Schneider  Theresa Ward  
Ann Biddlecom  Gretchen Etzel  Paul Kane Noel Murtha  Paul Schneider  Thomas Warth  
Denise Boychuk  John Eustermann  Patrick Kauffman Mary K. McGowa  Zachary Schrantz  Matthew Waters  
James Brennan  David Faliszek  Todd Kays Mary McGreevy  Carolyn Schuster  Daniel Weber  
Liam Brennan  Julie Fessel  Amy Keusal Margaret McNally  Robert Sedlack  Kent Weldon  
Patricia Briody  David Fischer  Gina Killian Michael Noone  Rebecca Seidel  Steven Wightkin  
Cecilia Bryer  James Fleisher  John Kleiser Colleen O'Connor  Chip Shaia  James Winkler  
J. Michael Caldwell  David Freedy  Steven Knostman Brian O'Gara  David Shearon  Melissa Wochner  
Charles Callaghan  Sean Garrett  Marita Kurst Kevin Olson  Andrew Shimer  Chang-Hee Won  
Joseph Candela  Sheila Geary  Beth Kuzma Christine Orosz  Thomas Sloan  Kim Yuratovak  
Liam Canny  Lisa Geroundeau  Mark Laboe James Peters  Joy Smith  Christopher Zampogna  
MarySue Carzoli  Helen Gilboy  Patrick Larsen John Piecyk  Anne Soisson  Jennifer Zima  
Michael Chalmers  Gregory Golonka  Jeff Laurenson Patrick Pink  Krista Starr  Joseph Zuhosky  
Nancy Christensen  James Grace  Leslie Lawrence Michael Polcari  Cheryl Stoy  
Maureen Cohan  Patrick Hall  David Lese Thomas Quast  Paul Sughrue  

Monday, May 1, 1989 The Observer a e 7 



Mon. 
r---------------------,
1 MONDAY MADNESS!I Get One Small 1 Cheese and Pepperoni Pizza 
I Ofier valid only FOR ONLyI on Moday. 
1 Oneotferper 

$3 99 
1 order. 
e

I Customer • • pays sales tax. 11,.,. 1 Valid a~ listed 
fl A/~~~
1 locatiOns. • · ® '( w:~ I Expires: 515'89 ~~ 



L---------------------­
Tues. 
r--~---------~--------­
TEBRIFIC TUESDAY! Get Two Medium Pizzas wtth your choice of up to seven toppings -single portions only. 
Offer validMon FOR ONLY
II
on Tuesday. • 

~der. . • $9 99 
pays ··® • sales tax. Valid "'..J.-6~ at nt.cl 1 ovr.:.,7t:.,
Joeatlons. ~-._~~a., Expires: 515'89 pA'""'"~ ·
----------------------J 




Weds. 
r----------------~-----~----------------------~---------------------~

WILD WEDNESDAY! Get Two Small Pizzas With Any Topping 
Offer:.:ly FOR ONLY 
:r~~::B I $5.99payssalestax ~ Valid at listed. • SM locations. • . ® · 
Expires: 515'89 ~~ 
··=-­

. 
lt"s a pizza lover"s dream come true. Every day this week. you can get a special offer from Dommo's Pizza: Whether 1t's free extra crust or a free small cheese pizza. there's more reasons to make this the week for a special treat from Domino's Pizza. So why not give us a call? In 30 minutes or less, you'll see why this is the week you've been waiting for. 
Call Now! 
Notre Dame 

277-2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. 
DOMINO'S 

PIZZA 

DELIVERs·




Ill.
FREE. 

Sun. 
SUNDAY DOUBLE FEATURE! Get Two Small Ch~ese Pizzas 
Offervalidonly I'~ FOR ONLY 
~~z ~ $4.49
Vi • • . ® 
~~alld ?!~~ locatlona. •1 ovr:;,rz:_ 
Explrea: 5'15-89 ~~841 
---------------------,
THICK ' THURSDAY! Get One Medium Pan Pizza loaded with extra cheese, pepperoni, and thick crust 
II FORONLY
~e~~~~~~yOne offer per order. Customer  • • $5.00  
pays sales tax. Valid at listed=·  • .  ® 4!.1.-h~ fOV"!,.rz,  
~~~  

~---------------------A 



Fri. 
WACKY WEEKEND! Get 6 Icy Cold Cokes® with any pizza purchase 
Offer valid only FOR ONLy 
on Friday and 

:!~::~ efl 99¢Customer • 
pays sales tax. . .JJ.MJw su Valid ~listed : . ® f"":~· =-515-89 ~p-
L---------------------J 


Sat. 
WACKY WEEKEN~1 G~t &Icy Cold Cokes with any pizZa purchase 
C:::;J::~ FOR ONLY 
~~· el99e 
...........,_ ~ pays sales tax. $M Valid at l-..cl : . e ~­
=5"15-89 ~p-
1----------------------'-----------------------..J..--------~------------·'< 
Viewpoint

page 8 Monday, May 1 , 1989 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris DonnellyManaging Editor Business Manager Regis Coccia Rich Iannelli 
Exec. News Editor .... Mat1hew Gallagher Advertising Manager ............ Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor ................. Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager ....... Shannon Roach Sports Editor ...................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ........... Alison Cocks Accent Editor .......................... John Bias• Systems Manager ............. Mark Derwent Photo Editor ....•.•..................... Eric Bailey OTS Director................... Angela Bellanca Controller ............................ Anne Lindner 
The Observer is the mdependent newspaper pubiisned by the students of the Un•· vers•ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary"s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Uns•gned editorials represent the op1n1on of the ma1onty of the following: Editor-in-Chief. Manag1ng Editor. Executive News Editor. V1ewpomt Editor. Sports Editor. Accent Ed1tor. Photo Editor. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged 

"LeT~ GO m9? ~STRINef.NT l.£&101-ATION AltVlWAT cuRBrNG MmCA; /Y'Ci(J>.J, r;aLIN6 MID lJ1!;N 6XEMPrOIJKl;aVE:S. II 
Athletics vs. academics in the NDspotlight 
By Bob Kerby 
In November, a graduate stu­dent used Viewpoint to argue the startling proposition that athletics are emphasized un­duly at Notre Dame, to the det­riment of the University's academic aspirations. As a member of this scholarly fam­ily's tenured elite--indeed, as a Faculty Senator, one of the select but august few who governs this intellectual democracy--! hasten, at a leisurely professorial pace, to rally the community in defense of the Dome. 
How can anyone believe that Notre Dame undervalues academics? Did not Notre Dame, just a short while ago, tout widely its determination to stop Hollywood from shooting a George Gipp movie here, lest a flick about a footballer tar­nish the University's scholarly image? Did not a presidential task force recently investigate the University's teaching func­tion; and did not the provost then publish a response, ex­plaining why many of the task force's recommendations did not even need to be implement­ed? Has not the new classroom building made classes a delight for all, leaving few to regret the ongoing disappearance of older classrooms swallowed up by office space? Do not pending reductions in faculty health benefits testify to the faculty's vigor? Does not the expend­iture of $17,000,000 to com­puterize poets, painters, novelists, philosophers, great booksters, and other humanis­tic jellyware demonstrate the University's commitment to the brave new world of quan­tified wisdom? And what other university anywhere imports the Ball State marching band to adorn a Law School lecture, 
DOONESBURY 

a lecture thronged by so many undergraduates that no faculty had to be invited to pad the au­dience? Can anyone imagine that academics play second fiddle to anything here? 
Belief and unsubstantiated opinion are not the stuff of scholarship. Only hard knowl­edge is. Lest there be any doubt about the University's true vi­sion, I have undertaken to quantify Notre Dame's relative rankings of academics and ath­letics. This study employs the most up-to-date evidence, data published just a few months ago in the official ND Alumni Association's latest official ND book, a coffee-table-sized pic­ture tome called "Notre Dame: A Sense of Place." My method has been to count the pictures, categorizing those germane to the issue by content and theme. These calculations exclude the photographs irrelevant to this study's topic--the Church, the Grotto, panoramic views of the campus, lovers, magnolias, and sunsets--as well as the zero pictures devoted to non-scholar non-athletes, none of whom-­groundskeepers, secretaries, cooks, maids, handymen, etc.­-appear to contribute anything whatsoever to the University's sense of place. Data pertaining to scholarship and sports settle the debate definitively, once and for all. 
The book contains 36 photographs showing various aspects of the sp.Q.r-ts subcul­hire. Most are indisputably about sports, such as the two photos of mud wrestlers, the two about boxing, and one of some tailgaters tailgating. One might dispute inclusion of photos showing Irish Guardsmen guarding and Marching Bandspersons marching, but backgrounds confirm that sports were the occasion for the performances in question. Sixteen photos dis­play some direct relationship to a leathery oblate spheroid being maneuvered over a grassy grid. (Curiously, in this Pledge of Allegiance Age, no photo in the book celebrates America's National Pastime, Baseball. A further study may be required). 
On the other hand, the book contains 38 academic photographs. Professor George Craig may be seen reading some dull academic journal, doubtless scanning a heavy ar­ticle about gooey little squiggly bugs. Five pictures show six people reading books: big books, little books, fat books, flat books. Two other people are reading newspapers; two strollers may be espied lugging books across campus; ten engineering types, in two photos, are playing with toy airplanes; two potters are a-potting; one teacher is a-teaching six enthralled stu­dents about something that happened so long ago that nobody cares; and one art freak is a-viewing some sculp­ture. The drama department hits the big time with a photo of, maybe, 120 theatergoers watching a play, and the six graduation scenes show about 1,200 newly-minted alumni and alumnae, and perhaps as many mums, dads, and clergy. 
One might question my categorization of some of these 38 academic photos. Father Sorin's statue is included, be­cause he did found this place to teach folks about stuff. Also included are Thomas More's statue, because he was literate; Dante's statue, be­cause he also was literate, if only in a foreign language (and, anyway, he shares his photo with a live book-reader) ; two marble figures reading marble books in a Dillon Hall archway; one statue of a berobed scholar flourishing a scroll, which, presumably, he can read; andapictureofsome stained-glass memorials to some very smart but very dead Greeks and Romans. Also in­eluded are a picture of Memorial Library, without people, and one of the Moses statue nearby, because Moses is holding some kind of a rock lawbook. 
Yet the reader may be as­sured that, as this study inched toward its finding that the source documentation boasts 38 academic pictures, ex­traneous photos were rigidly excluded. Sculptures of non­scholars were not counted if no live scholar was gazing at them, nor were statues of Jesus Christ and his Mother counted, because neither published anything of note in a reputable refered journal. (Some of Jesus's students later claimed he was a fair teacher, but TCE's do not tenure make.) Nor were unpopulated views of the Dome counted, of which which there are at least 16 in the book, even though there are doubtless more big thoughts per cubic inch in the Dome than in any other building on campus. 
That 38 photos in the official Alumni Association's official book address the University's intellectual life, while only 36 picture sports, demonstrates the thesis advanced heretofore: to wit, ND is into thinking lots more than it is into rah-rah. QED. 
The scholar must acknowl­edge ambiguities in data. The sole memorable caption gracing an academic page does speak of "silly old books" and similar quaint irrelevancies. 
The sports pictures are, on average, bigger than the schol­arship pages: rather more of the former sprawl across two­page spreads. And there do seem to be a lot more people in the sports-related pictures. Counting all the potters, readers, teachers, book-toters, statues, dead Greeks, dead 
Latins,  drama  buffs,  
graduates,  and  proud  roums  
and  dads  pictured,  "Notre  

Dame: A Sense of Place" fea­tures just about 2,364 scholars, dead and alive, including rela­tives. But counting all the ath­letes, spectators, Irish Guards, bandspersons, the 10 Four Horsemen in one photo, and the 23 strollers crossing the greensward in front of the Rockne Memorial--and figur­ing, . without really counting every head, that pictures of the full stadium show about 59,000 persons apiece--one calculates that the book shows 147,409 sportsmen, sportswomen, and fans. About two hours with a user-friendly computer produces the anomalous datum that there is but 0.016037 scholar per sportsperson at Notre Dame, or, in round num­bers, just 16 academics per 1,000 real people. 
Further studies may be re­quired to explain away this curious skew. I am confident that the Dome's PR people will undertake just such a study forthwith. 
Meanwhile, what is wrong with sanctioning a George Gipp movie? Did the Gipper never read a book? Did he never at­tend a class? Was he, per­chance, not even a legally en­rolled student, but only a ringer smuggled in from the NFL? 
Bob Kerby is an associate pro­jessor of history. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
tA5T W~I<EN{}, Pt<eS/OtNT 6130RG8 EJU'3H COMPt&TW 

A 'iTARTlJNG 
H/'3 fiRST 100 [JAYS 

AEK-Nf3WSPOU­
IN OffiC£. HOW HAS 

PRIJVIJ}{35 PRAMATIG 
H£3 fAR&!)~ 

INSIGHT INTO 
~ 

HOW TH£3 PU8­
UC~IVfb 
MR.8USH... 
/ 

WH&N ASKW If TH&Y CIJUW 1/J&NT!Pf 7H8 P~IIJI3NT BY NAM£3, A Fl3MAI<J<A/31..8 87% ON TH/3 PW5 5/lJ/3, OF OUR R&5PONI?&N7'3 IIJbf?IJ 65%APPIWVW UNA81.£ 7V 1?0 50, AN AIJIJ/-Of 7H8 JOB H£3 
1 TJONAL-6% {.OUW ONl-Y WA5 fXJtNe. 
!<&CAt!..-ON£3 Of H/7 FOUl< NAM£3?. 
/ 
'Feeling tired and depressed about Monday mornings? Remember: You have your health and strength, you live in a free country, and you are going to Notre Dame. What more could you want?' 
Anonymous Notre Dame employee 

--------..., 
Monday, May 1 , 1989 page 9 
-




Accent 


Despite a few chilly days, the 22nd An T ostal, with its 
basketball, contests, music, and fireworks, was a success. Although An Tostal is a week­long festival, the weekend events attract the most participants. 


Photos by Andrew McCloskey 
Domers get down and dirty for the wildest week of the year 



-

(Clockwise from top) An unidentified "mud-man" emerges from the mud pit on Saturday. Mark Wachter leaps into the air over Dave Cane at Wednesday's 1 0-foot Slam Dunk Contest. Becca Swartz (left) and Heidi Costa of the group UNT lip sync the song "Big Bottom" from "This is Spinal Tap." The two were competitors in the Comedy lmprov/lmpersonations contests held on Friday. Donn Grimm rolls fellow student in the Tire Roll on Friday. Members of Zahm Hall pull their chariot to victory in the Mud Chariot Races. 
-
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 10 The Observer Monday, May 1, 1989 
NO golfers end spring season 
By DAVE McMAHON 
Sports Writer 
Despite improving by 24 strokes from last year's tourn­ament, the Irish men's golf team placed 14th out of 15 teams this weekend at the Mid­western Invitational in Dekalb, Illinois. 
Ohio State won the tourna­ment with an 854, followed by Illinois (858), Kansas (874), and Wisconsin (885). 
Notre Dame finished the tourney 60 shots off the pace with a 914. Last year, the Irish shot 938, which was good enough for a 12th place finish. Host Northern Illinois finished nth, ending the tourney with a 908. 

A bright spot for the Irish, however, was the play of fresh­man Mike O'Connell, who finished 14th overall with a total of 225. O'Connell, playing in the fifth spot, was pleased with his final effort after a less than satisfying season. 
"I was glad to put together three quality rounds (75-72-78), but I feel bad for the seniors," said O'Connell. "We didn't play up to our capabilities as a team." 
Senior Pat Mohan shot 78-79 the first two rounds before en­ding on a positive note with 72 for 229. 
"It wasn't our best effort of the year," said Mohan, "and the other teams played real well." 
Paul Nolta (231), Doug Gior­gio (233), and Mike Crisanti 
(239) followed Mohan in Notre Dame's final event of the season. 
After completing its first season under coach George Thomas, the Irish golf team seems to be headed in the right direction. 
"Coach Thomas helped us all improve our games throughout the year," said 0' Connell. "We showed improvement as the season progressed and he's recruited some good golfers, so we're looking pretty good for next year." 
Magic keys Lakers past Portland 
Associated Press 
INGLEWOOD --Magic Johnson scored 35 points, 20 as Los Angeles took control in the first half, and had 12 assists as the two-time defending NBA champion Lakers beat Portland 113-105 Sunday in their opening playoff series. 
The Lakers lead the best-of-5 2-0 and can advance to the second round with a victory Wednesday night at Portland. 
James Worthy added 18 points for the Lakers, while Mychal Thompson had 15 and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar 13. 
Clyde Drexler led the Trail Blazers with 28 points despite missing most of the first quar­ter after he quickly drew his third personal foul. Terry Porter and Jerome Kersey had 21 points each. 
Pistons 102, Celtics 95 

AUBURN HILLS, Mich. -­Isiah Thomas, celebrating his 28th birthday, scored 14 of his 26 points in the third quarter Sunday and the Detroit Pistons overcame a nine-point deficit to beat the Boston Celtics 102-95 to take a 2-0 lead in their first­round NBA playoff series. 
The best-of-5 series resumes Tuesday at Boston Garden. 
Cavaliers 96, Bulls 88 

RICHFIELD, Ohio --Ron Harper outscored Michael Jor­dan 31-30, and Larry Nance scored eight points during a 13­6 third-quarter flurry as the Cleveland Cavaliers beat the Chicago Bulls 96-88 Sunday to even their NBA playoff series. 
The best-of-five series, tied 1­1, moves to Chicago for two games beginning Wednesday, with the fifth game, if needed, to be played at Cleveland on Sunday. 
Sanies 109, Rockets 97 
SEATTLE --Alton Lister and Xavier McDaniel each scored 20 points and the Seattle Super­Sonics broke open a close game in the final quarter to beat the Houston Rockets 109-97 and take a 2-0 lead in their playoff series. 
The Sonics can clinch the best-of-5 series Wednesday night in Houston. 
With  Lister  scoring  eight  
points  in  the  last  quarter,  
Seattle  broke  away  after  

leading 75-73 going into the per­iod. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Karen Robinson , sophomore point guard for the Notre Dame women's basketball team, earned one of 12 spots on the East team for this summer's Olympic Sports Festival. Robinson competed with over 200 other players for the honor of playing in the Festival which will take place in Oklahoma City, Okla. on July 17-24. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame softball defeated Marquette 10-o and 11-8 Saturday and then swept Saint Mary's 11-0 and 13-0 Sunday. The wins improved Notre Dame's record to 29-20. More details will appear in Tuesday's Observer. 
-The Observer 

Boxing Club members who received two of the same tape duirng the banquet, please call Mike at x3386. 
-T,'->.e Observer , ,thy Postlewait shot a final round 3-under-par 69 Sunday to post a one-stroke victory over Val Skinner in the $425,000 LPGA sara Lee Classic. -Associated Press AI Geiberger and Harold Henning birdied the final three holes on Sunday to take a one-shot victory over Bob Charles and Bruce Devlin in the $650,000 Legends of Golf with a record-tying 29-under-par total. -Associated Press 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Hoch gets redemption with Las Vegas victory 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS --Scott Hoch, who lost the Masters in a playoff earlier this month, found a measure of redemption Sunday when he dropped an 8­foot birdie putt on the fifth playoff hole and beat Robert Wrenn for the title in the Las Vegas Invitational. 
Hoch, who missed a short par putt three weeks ago that would have won him the first of golf's major tournaments for the year, struggled through the five extra holes Sunday before claiming the top prize of $225,000. 

A cheerful Hoch im­meditaley announced he would donate $100,000 of that to the Arnold Palmer Childlren's Hospital in Orlando, Fla. 
Hoch and Wrenn each birdied the 90th hole the last in regula­tion of this five-day event--to finish in a tie for first at 336, 24 under par. 
Wrenn had a bogey-free 66 Sunday, that included birdies on his first four holes. 
The Observer accepts classrfreds every busrness day from 10 a.m. untrl 4 p m at the Notre Dame offrce. 314 LaFortune. and from 12 30 untrl 3 p m at the Sarnt Marys offrce Haggar College Center Deadlrne lor next-day classrfieds rs 3 p m All classrfreds must
Classifieds be prepaid The charge rs 10 cents per frve characters per day 
ROOMMATE  WANTED  FOR  SUM­ The reign of the Meatuses is not of this  FIRST TIME AT SAINT MARY'S  
NOTICES  FOR RENT  MERSCHOOL ALREADY HAVE TURT. CREEK LEASE CALL X1169 FOR INFO  TICKETS  world...  ALAN FAYE & THE MCNEILS FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1989  
................  GO HOME!  HAGGAR TERRACE  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  NICE FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. 287-6389, 683-8889.  Need Ride to DC AREA 5-22, Mary 374 Non-Notre Dame Student requesting  $$$ GRAD TIX WANTED $$$ Call Michelle at 3196  NEED A VEHICLE? GREAT VAN AND  FREE FOOD 5:30.7:30  
FOUR  FLAGS  FARM  BED  AND  help in writing Bachelor's Thesis in Mar­ TRUCK  PRICES-ONE  WAYS  STILL  
NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for CASH I! Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK  BREAKFAST CONVENIENTLY LO­CATED 20 MINS. FROM NO. IDEAL FOR ALL ND ACTIVITIES. 616-471­ keting Will pay generously! call: # 684­8601  I need 5 graduation tix-call Tom or 3157  3155  AVAIL. CALL X1143 FOR INFO. ........... ······································ ANYONE INTERESTED IN LEASING  SPONSORED BY SMC CLASS OF '92. ALL ARE WELCOME .  
808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 233-2342 RESUMES, reports, etc. typed on a computer. Call Sue's Secretarial Ser· vice anytime at 299-0063. EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL  5711. APT. 2 PEOPLE GOOD NEIGHBOR­HOOD 288-0955-289-2331 MALE GRADUATES FURNISHED ROOMS, AIR, KITCHEN, FRIDGE. 5 MINS. N. CAMPUS. 272­0615.  WANTED:10 SPEED BIKE272-6306 FOR SALE Modern couch and full-size bed for sale.Great condition. Call 234-8365  ATTN SRS! Need 3 grad tix for my grandparents coming from SEATTLE! Will pay $$$-Call Michelle X3820 RUTHIE AND MARCEL ARE COMING TO. N D and one of them needs a ticket to graduation. Will pay $$ callx4228  AN APARTMENT AT TURTLE CREEK FOR THE SUMMER? CALL DEIRDRE AT 284-4365. SUMMER APARTMENT IN TURTLE CREEK NEEDED. ONE ROOMMATE OR TWO SUBLETTERS. CALL 284­4387 STACY OR JANENE AFTER 8 PM.  Val, I'm beating the rush to wish you a happy Tuesday! Have a good week and good luck on finals. Ciao. Me ATTENTION! ATTENTION! Doug and Deb have decided to name  
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. HOLY CROSS PRIESTS & BROTHERS VOCATION COUNSELING for the ONE­ Moving to NYC? Lg 1 bdrm. apt. for rent Aug. 1. Good midtown lac. AC, DW & lg closets. Per­ Panasonic Mtn bike. Like new! Call Tom. 277-0725  PERSONALS  CHAMPIONS Is coming soon to the ND Bookstore. Don't leave lor home without ttl  their beby alter Its surrogate mother, Molly. Luckily lor the child, she looks more like Doug and Deb than Molly I  
-­ YEAR CANDIDATE PROGRAM and other ministry opportunities. Contact: FR. JOHN CONLEY, CSC BOX 541 NOTRE DAME 239-£385 Pray to St. Jude \ LOST/FOUND I LOST: AI Sr. Formal-35mm kodak.Rt. Side of Ballrm contains all our pix.Pieae call John 271-0129 LOT: Sr. Frml. Rt Side of Ballrm 35mm Kodak, contains all our pix Please Call John at 271-0129  fect for share. Call Betsy or Jackie. (212) 582-4250. sublei'FAlonsmokei'BrendenwCl!XYI rm of 2 bdroon>theap2875329 after 8pm For serious students rooms with house privileges. Fully furnished. Nice neigh­borhood 2 miles from ND. Summer or fall. Call AI 5378 or 234-1 021. SUB-LEASING TURTLE CREEK STUDIO APT FOR SUMMER PRICE NEGOTIABLE CALL 272-0389 2 BEDROOM HOUSE:an NO Ave also FURNISHED ROOMS near ND:$120 mo  LOFT-$45 GREY CARPET,LIKE NEW,8'x10'-$60 STEREO CABINET-$10 4 DRAWER CHEST-$15 BLACK-WHITE RECLINER-$25 X3201 For Sale: 1980 Mazda GLC, 99K new tires-MUST SELL. $500 or best offer. Call Lou 289-4315 1979 VW Rabbit, runs great, perfect stu­dent car. Call 234-6497. SONY Stereo, wtarousel CD and  n1ag SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDoWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-343-8373. EYE CONTACT BRAND NAME LENSES START AT 19.95 EA. 1-BOQ­255-2020. SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $279 each way on discounted scheduled airlines to Europe from Chicago. Call (800) 325-2222.  TOM SCHLIDT Hi guy! Enjoy your last days at St. Mon. In one month you'll be a true Hilltopper -­intelligent, cocky .... and still the best! Keep up the good work. See ya in two weeks. Love, Jay HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS SUM­MER (OR ANYTIME)? Jet there from Chicago, Detroit or Cleveland lor no more than $180 with AIRHITCH (TM), as reported In Consumer Reports, NY Times, Let's Go, and national network morning shows. For details, call 212­864-2000 or write: AIRHITCH(TM), 2901 Broadway, Suite 100G, NY, NY 10025.  NORM B. Did you get the philo class you wanted? Some of those behind you didn't! NEXT TIME DON'T CUT! 2 KRIS MALAKER WILL YOU MARRY ME? LOVE, STEVE Thanks to: Pat Giblin Band, Fritz, El­len,Ted,Curtis,Rich,Merkei,Menace Marl< Van Etten,Joe Cassrdy,Biind River,Monarch,S.Y.R.'s,Ciubhouse at SMC,the Palace,Home Run,Pro Audio, Rex Str.,Calcutta,Zeto,Catholics, Dead­ 
- ................................................... LOST: GOLD NUGGET NECKLACE. EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE. CALL BEKI AT 284-5127. LOST ON NORTH QUAD:AN AEROBIE. IT GOT STUCK IN THE TREE AND OVERNIGHT THE WIND BLEW IT DOWN. IF YOU FOUN IT, PLEASE CALL TONY AT 1244. IT WA BOR­ROWED. FOUND: 2 GOLD BRACELETS AT THE JACC. CALL 3878 TO DESCRIBE AND CLAIM. SPC, Your wayward son has not forgot­ten you. I love you, dad. LOST: Wallet in Cushing Aud. on Man 424 11:OOam. PLEASE call 2702 if you  272-6306 WANTED RIDE TO FLORIDA Help. Help. Help. We need a ride home after exams an Friday or Saturday. Going ro Fort Lauderdale, Orlanda, or Daytona. If you can help, please call Dave at 283­3284. AGENTS NEEDED! $350.00 PER DAY PROCESSING PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. CALL (REFUNDABLE) 1­315-733-6063 EXTENSION P-2382.  cabinet. Great for dorm. x234-6497 Wall-to-wall carpel (fits PW,PE, Knott, or Sieg double) and loft FOR SALE..... MELISSA X4341 837 PE 72 VW Van. Includes sink, refrig., and pop top. Great for camping & tailgaters. 289-0762 1924 DOME FOR SALE. MINT CONDI­TION SIGNED BY GRADUATING CLASS OF 1924. CALL TOM, 517-563­2412. 2 FISHER 3Way speakers good condi­tion Pete X4016  MALE TO SHARE TOWNHOUSE NEAR NO. CALL TYLER 2n-4831 OR 271­9360 ATTENTION: ANYONE LIVING IN NYC AREA NEED THINGS SHIPPED HOME? CALL JOHN AT 271-8704 OR 283-1789 (AFTER 10:00PM) HOPING TO ADOPT We're a happily married, financially secure couple with a beautiful home and lots of love to share with a much­wanted baby. II you are pregnant and considering adoption, please call us. Expenses paid. Confidential, legal. Please call Deborah and David collect day or night at 312-935-4088.  ND CLUB OF BUFFALO BAGGAGE TRUCK Loading: Fri May 12 from 2-5pm at Stepan. Questions call Tom X3285 THANK YOU ST. JUDE ANNE-MARIE, Thanks lor the great time at Sr. Fonnal. Good luck with finals! CHUCK -ATTENTION­ANYONE WANTING TO TRANSPORT ITEMS HOME ON THE NORTHWEST BAGGAGE TRUCK DROP BY AM 358 ALUMNI TO GET FORMS LIMITED SPACE AVAILABLE QUESTION: CALL 1222 RAY 1132 JOHN  horse,YouthiNAsia,Biii,Bob,and Biff,The Groove, The Bottom Line, Chip's,Duffy's,Lee'sRibs,Freudian, C.Balint,playing for Denny's money. Blind River,the lahm's,Leroy and Harold,Greg O'Connor,S.Sparks,Scott Selig & the Nazz.the great support of Portage House,P.Bohan,John A.,th Speed Mer­chant,M.Evcies,Jim Haii,JJ Brian B.C. Burke,Pat Kelly, the Blue King,ILIR,Word of Mouth, THE LAW, the Flying Leather­necks, BOATHOUSE, and the members of St.Paul and the Martyrs. And special thanks to: Ed and Tom Guinan,Andy GOD Therber, Brian Doherty,and the president.. .....Matt McGlynn. Here's to N.D. Campus Bands.(85-89) AFTER HOURS AFTER HOURS AFTER HOURS  
have it·l need my ID's and key!  FOR SALE: VOLVO STATIONWAGON,  I NEED A RIDE HOME TO FLORIDA  
Found: 7 in. gold bracelet found ouside Zahm's front lawn at 11 :30 PM on 426;  SREWED by a year lease? Will rent your place for the summer. Call TONY 288-8719.  '79 265GL, 4-SPD WOD,LEATHER IN­T.,NEW EXHAUST & TIRES,RALLY PKG.,EXTRAS 80K MILES....MICHAEL  FOR THE SUMMER. I CAN LEAVE FRIDAY 5112 AND WILL SHARE NOR­MAL EXPENSES. CALL PAUL AT 289­ KEVIN ORPURT (aka Dreamboat) You know...you're alright!  AFTER HOURS Come rock with After Hours at Murphy's (formerly Chip's)l Weds. and Thurs., May 3 and 4. What  
if it's yours, call x3363  288-4300  0662 OR 283-3506!  will Flip do next?  

-

~~ --~-------~---~-­
Monday, May 1, 1989 
The Observer 

Ryan captures battle of heat 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas --Nolan Ryan won the first battle between the best fastball pitchers in Texas, leading the Rangers past Roger Clemens and the Boston Red Sox 2~1 Sunday on Rafael Palmeiro's two-run homer in the eighth inning. 
Under a 82-degree Texas sun, each pitcher threw his best heat. The 42-year-old Ryan al­lowed three hits in eight innings and struck out 
11. His 49 strikeouts in 35 innings lead the Amer­ican League. Ryan, 3-1, didn't allow a hit until Danny Beep's two-out single in the fifth. 
Clemens, 3-1, pitched a five-hitter and struck out five for his second complete game this season. He has 39 strikeouts, tied for second with Mark Langston. 
Tigers 7, Athletics 2 

OAKLAND --Lou Whitaker hit a three-run homer and an Oakland starter was knocked out before the third inning for the first time in two seasons as the Detroit Tigers beat the Athletics 7-2 Sunday. 
Orioles 4, Mariners 3 

SEATTLE --Mickey Tettleton hit a two-run homer to snap an eighth-inning tie and Jeff Bal­lard became the first pitcher in Baltimore his­tory to win five games in April as the Orioles beat the Seattle Mariners 4-3 on Sunday. 
Angels 1, Blue Jays 0 

ANAHEIM, Calif. --Lance Parrish doubled with two outs in the 11th inn!ng to score Johnny Ray from second base Sunday, giving Califor­nia its fifth consecutive victory, 1-0 over the Toronto Blue Jays. 
Royals 2, Brewers 0 

KANSAS CITY, Mo. --Floyd Bannister pitched three-hit ball for 8 1-3 innings Sunday, leading the Kansas City Royals past Milwaukee 2-0 for a three-game sweep of the Brewers. 
Twins 2, Indians 1 

MINNEAPOLIS --AI Newman's run-scoring single snapped a seventh-inning tie and Roy Smith and Jeff Reardon combined on a five­hitter Sunday as the Minnesota Twins beat the Cleveland Indians 2-1 to stop a seven-game losing streak. 
Yankees 5, White Sox 2 
NEW YORK --Don Slaught hit a three-run, first-inning double and John Candelaria and Lance McCullers combined on a four-hitter Sun­day as the New York Yankees beat the Chicago White Sox 5-2 for their fourth consecutive vic­tory. 
Pirates 11, Giants 1 
PITTSBURGH --Steve Carter's first major­league home run sparked Pittsburgh's four-run first inning and Bobby Bonilla hit two run­scoring doubles to lead a 16-hit attack as the Pirates beat the San Francisco Giants 11-1 Sun­day. 
The Pirates set season highs for runs and hits after being limited to six runs in their previous five games. 
Reds 5, Phillies 3 
PHILADELPHIA --Eric Davis hit a two-out, two-run homer in the ninth inning to give the Cincinnati Reds a 5-3 victory over the Philadel­phia Phillies Sunday. 
Expos 9, Braves 6 
MONTREAL --Otis Nixon hit a three-run 
double and Spike Owen added his first National 
League home run as the Montreal Expos 
defeated Atlanta 9-6 Sunday to complete a 
three-game sweep and send the Braves to their 
sixth straight defeat. 

Hubie Brooks also had a home run to help 
Brian Holman win his first start of the season. 
Cardinals 4, Dodgers 3 
ST. LOUIS --Joe Magrane came off the dis­abled list Sunday and allowed six hits over six innings as the St. Louis Cardinals beat the Los Angeles Dodgers 4-3 to complete a three-game sweep of the World Champions. 
Cubs 7, Padres 3 
CHICAGO --Curt Wilkerson doubled and tripled, scored two runs and drove in another, leading Scott Sanderson and the Chicago Cubs to a 7-3 victory over the San Diego Padres on Sunday. 
Astros 7, Mets 6 
HOUSTON --Mike Scott defeated New York for the first time in the regular season in four years as the Houston Astros won 7-6 Sunday to snap the Mets' six-game winning streak. 


·~.·~II .,.. 
GREYHOUND

--_/~ ... . 
l~----'----1_______.. 
GREYHOUND 
WILL BE ON CAMPOS TUESDAY, MAY 9th THRO SUNDAY, MAY 14th TO PICK-OP YOOR TRUNKS, BOXES, STEREOS, & BICYCLES FOR SHIPMENT HOME 
GREYHOUND TROCK WILL BE BEHIND BOOKSTORE MAY 9th THRO MAY 14th FROM 1O:OOAM ONTIL 4:30 PM SHIP PREPAID (CASH) OR COLLECT (LET MOM & DAD PAY) 
INDMD<IAL TRONKS & BOXES CANNOT EXCEED too+. WE'LL HAVE TAPE AND SHIPPING lABELS. 
Speeds could top 225 mph at Indy 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS --With a new surface, stronger engines and better chassis, a lap averaging 225 mph is no longer inconceivable at the In­dianapolis~ Motor Speedway. 

The Observer I Trey Raymond 
The Saint Mary's tennis team ended its spring season with a loss to Toledo Saturday. 
Toledo downs Belles to end spring season 
By SARAH GEREND 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team concluded its spring season Saturday with an overall record of 8-6. The final meet was against Toledo. 
The Belles lost 7-2 to Toledo. The two wins were gained by the number-three singles' player, Sarah Mayer, and the number­three doubles team of Ellen Mayer and Angie Muller. 
"Sarah was down the first set 4-3 and pulled through with a tremendous com­eback defeating her op­ponent with the score of 7-5, 6-4." said teammate Char­lene Szajko. 
The victorious doubles team played a tough match and fought hard until the 
Defending champion Rick Mears, an oval-track special­ist, is favored to win his fourth Indy and may top his track record of 220.453. 
Mears tested his Penske PC­18 with a Chevrolet V -8 engine on the newly paved IMS oval 
SUB'S REFRIGERATOR RETURN/SALE 
DATE: Friday, May 5th 
TIME: 2:30PM-5:30PM 
PLACE: Stephan Center 
NEED TO BRING: Refrigerator that is clean and defrosted to receive initial deposit OR money to buy your refrigerator; $25 for small and $40 for-large. (We keep your deposit) .. 
end, battling it out through a tiebreaker. They won with the score of 4-6, 6-4, 7-6 (7-4). 
"They played a great match. It was very close right up until the final points in the third set with the score of 6-6, leading the team into the tiebreaker," said number-two singles player Sarah Mayer. 
The team is now ready and waiting for the nationals which will take place in Kansas City, Missouri begin­ning May 21. 
"We've had a tough spring season," said Szajko. All season we've been compet­ing against Division I schools. We believe we can compete and we don't lack the ability. The team knows their talented, now we just have to work on prolonging the intensity." 
in March. Even in 35-degree weather, Mears topped 217 mph. 
He concedes 225 is within reach. 
"I don't think it's out of the question," he said. "It depends on the weather and how the popoff valves are working, as far as the boost. Last year, I think the valves were a little bit strong and they may tame them down a bit this year. 
"But I think the gains in the cars, the new track surface and Goodyear's new tires, if we had some decent conditions, I think 225 is a possibility." 
Practice for the 73rd In­dianapolis 500 begins Saturday. The first weekend of qualifica­tions is scheduled for May 13­14, followed by two more days May 20-21. The green flag will fly before the 33-car field at 11 a.m. May 28. 
Mears won the CART opener in Phoenix on another oval track. ­
Roger Penske's PC-17 cars, designed by Nigel Bennett, were the class of the field last year. Penske teammates Mears, Danny Sullivan and Al Unser occupied the front row of the lineup and led 192 of the 200 laps on race day. 
page 12 The Observer Monday, May 1, 1989 



Adwork's by 6 4/28 BK 9 

Adwork's by 3 Malicious Prost. 
4:00p.m. 


by 2a Killer Bees Killer Bees by 2 
9 Redan, Sk & 3 Malicious
4/29 
4/29
Adwork's Prost. 

Stepan 5Stepan 5 
5:00p.m. 4/30 6:00p.m. 
Bookstore Basketball Update 
Coach's by 3 
5 Minahoonies 5:00p.m. Minahoonies 12 Rubber Cement by 5 
Women 
continued from page 16 
tive than I thought it would be," said Angel, who was playing in her first Bookstore tourna­ment. "It was a lot of fun playing against so many good athletes, but we could have never gotten as far as we did without a great overall team ef­fort.'' 
Sparky's advanced to the final game by annihilating a much smaller One Girl With Experience, 21-4, on Friday and Teeter and The Four Hot Totters, 21-3, on Saturday. 
Once again Botham's com­bined 23 points for both games made the difference, as few 
Scott 
continued from page 16 
streak to a 3-1 lead with an as­sist to John Bergmann and a jumper from outside. Scott scored only three more points in the first half, but he owned the second stanza. 
He hit shots to tie the game at 12-12, 14-14 and 15-15. His long-range jumper gave Mali­cious Prostitution a 17-16 lead, and with the score tied at 19-19, Scott left no doubt who was in charge. 
Scott gave Rice a lesson in finding the open man when he three a bullet to a wide-open John Bergmann for a 20-19lead. He finished the game, doubleteamed, shooting a long­range jumper that could have 

More people have survived cancer than now live in the City of Los Angeles. 
We are winning. 
AMERICAN 
CANCER
~ 
• SOCIEtY" 
The Observer I Trey Reymond 

Tony Rice goes up for a layup during Friday's quarterfinals. Adwork's downed Killer Bees in that game, but later lost to Malicious Prostitution 21-19 in the championship. Rice was named to The Observer's second team All-Tourney squad. 

GARDENS Downstairs in LaFortune Center 
Look for the BIG sale on our last day, Thursday, May 4th! 
ATTENTION UNDERGRADUATES! 
LAST CALL FOR APPLICATIONS! 
Thursday, May 4 is the last day to submit appli~tions for the 1989 St. Mary's Semester Around the World foreign study program. 
for information call Dr. Cy Pullapilly at either 284-4468, 272-0889 or 284-447 4. 

Congratulate Your Graduate! 
... Say it with BALLOONS! 
Graduation Balloons..reg. $2.25 

6 

_ ~~. $1.75 ea. 
::~~~~ 
r While they last! 
·~~~9£g 
At IRISH 

Stepan 5 3:00p.m. 

Murphy's Bar 
by 2 
1989 Bookstore Basketball Champions Malicious Prostitution 
by 2 
teams could fight off Sparky's inside strength. 
An Angel had a tougher time getting there, fighting to a 21-19 win over the highly-touted Hoosier Lawyers on Friday and beating Three of Marv's Rejects and Two of His Stars 21-17 on Saturday. 
McGraw and Angel proved that coaches really can play, as they had a two-day total of 16 and 17 points, respectively. 
"I was surprised at how ag­gressive the players were throughout the tourney," said Angel. "All the team's were well balanced but Hoosier Lawyers had to be the toughest team we faced." 
Many of the tourney's top teams fell in earlier action, in-
brought rain. Instead, it hit nothing but net. 
For Scott, it was a fitting return to competitive basket­ball after more than a two-year absence. He averaged 12 points per game his senior season at 
Princeton while point guard.  starting  at  
He was one average Sunday, seemed to care.  under but no  t hat one  

There was no doubt that Scott was Sunday's star, but it was by no means a one-man effort. Like Celtic teams that dominated in the mid-1980s, Malicious Prostitution received contributions from everyone. 
Pete Van Dyke was Robert Parish inside, blocking shots and grabbing rebounds with his 

No "I" in team No "I" in team by 5 Bennitt's Buffett 1o 
4/28 BK 10 4:00p.m. 

Malicious Prost. 2 Malicious Prost. by 6 Air Check & G.S. 15 
Fugitive Guys 4/28 BK 10 


The Observer I Laura Stnaton 
eluding Teeter and the Four Hot Totters who defeated Four Dunks and 1 Dink on Friday 21­18 before falling to i)parky's. 
Dawn Brohman led the way for Teeter with 10 points and 14 rebounds and the team's namesake, Teeter Clemens, added five points. 
Three of Marv's Rejects and Two of His Stars downed We've Got It Put It Through 21-13 
using  a  varied  arsenal  of  
threats.  
Betsy  Mennen  and  Amy  

Baranke tossed in six and five points, respectively for Three of Marv's Rejects before their team met its demise at the hands of An Angel, Sally's Comet and Three Other Heavenly Bodies. 
business-as-usual attitude. John Bergmann was Kevin McHale, complementing Scott wth four points and aiding Van Dyke on the boards. 
Jim Flynn was Sunday's Den­nis Johnson, quiet but effective and not afraid to take the charge. Joe Sternberg, the only non-law student on the team, starred as Danny Ainge, grab­bing a loose ball at 19-19 to set up Malicious Prostitution's last two baskets. 
As Flynn popped the cham­pagne after the game, Van Dyke stood close by and reflected on the Celtic image initiated by Adwork's. 
"We were hoping to get a showdown with them," he said. 
That chance came Sunday, and the Celtics hung another banner. 
ATTENTION MARKETING MAJORS 
Wanted Campus Representatives for Fortune 500 company. Put your intellectual knowledge to PRACTICAL use. 
CALL 234-4055 ...Ask for Bill 
Monday, May 1 , 1989 

The Observer page 3 
Kohl for reduction of missiles
New co~p~ter ~~11; 

Associated Press talks as frank and intensive. Brussels on May 29-30. Kohl defended West Ger­Mrs. Thatcher's visit to the
opens qn··camPY!i 
DEIDESHEIM, West many's allegiance to NATO, Rhineland-Palatinate town of Germany--Prime Minister but he and Mrs. Thatcher ad­Deidesheim was aimed at per­By BRADLEY GALKO , ·"'and spreadsheet app. . 
Margaret Thatcher of Britain mitted they could not solve the suading Kohl to drop his gov­
Staff Reporter <• ~=pu:,t nmother labs 
failed to persuade Chancellor crisis. ernment's insistence that the 
The new computer lab· ill the architecture building contains newer, faster cQm~. puters and graphical output . devices that are better suited for advanced appllca::• tions in such fields as archi£ 

'~It's networked. Spicer, and has a . 'tOr''" station ~'which can be. used for instructional purpo$95~ · which is pn~ of the prip1ary · goalsof ins~alling the lab, ~e $atd~'fBerg'added, ''faculty 
tecture, science, and engin~.w will also be able to · eering, according to Don~d reserve the Jab/', ;;.\ < Spicer, associate provQSt{Q~ ..•.·... ·•·.•. •~w~ for use by the til'. 
University Computing. . ······ ••tecture department, .. ·· sa 
The new lab contains"16 Berg, •'but it's also just a"'''1 w 1 IBM PS-2 model 70's with bigh.endlab for the campus.ti color monitors, two Hewlitt,. We needed an advanceg aP,)" Packard laser printers, ~.ng ,.plicatio~ .. lab and. t 
two Pruning Zeta plotters"··· (architecture) had 
which produce color output space!' ... 
from Computer Aided Spicer said that the lab'sfJ> Design (CAD) software, ~c~;: potentiaLuseby any student; 
cording to Lisa Berg, , . facultytii10r staff. member. "' managerofsupportanduser }'distinguishes it from any .· services for University com"' college ... or departmentalHl'­puting. Berg coordinated the facility;'l Berg said any ;;; 
implementation of the lab. Notre Dame, Saint. Mary's, 
"The equipment is mote :'\ipr Holy Cross studEmt, fac~ r advanced than the equip--·ulty•. or staff member can •• , ment in our other labs/' said use the lab upon presenta;.;;~;, Berg explaining that the tion of an ID. IF iF r: computers in the architec~ :;i;h The lab, which islocated Mt ture lab are faster and. can pn the fourth floor ofthe ar., handle software that. C01ll·....£hitecture buildiog".is.. cltr:­puters in other labs ''tin.,.. reritlyopen from lJ>·'Pl·~~~:;: 
campus cannot. ~D>p.m.··.·on.·· Monday through> 
"The primary purpose ·is Thursday, .:1 pjm. to 5 p.:rrt; to compliment the labs we g.on Friday, and 6 p.m. .to ~ (already) have," se1id --p.:r.n. on$unday~ Spicer. Berg added that t.h~ ..:c "Next~mestef .. ··• pur~
lab is "geared toward other , will expand," said. Berg~···· applications" other than the' :w;t<part of that will depend on straight word processing the demand by professors,0!·Al1 
~[M]© ~[fi)®[ffi@@[fi) 

Congratulations Graduates! 

s 
..• 

Helmut Kohl on Sunday to drop "We still have quite a lot of his demand that the super­work to do," Kohl told powers begin talks soon on cut­reporters during a news confer­ting short-range nuclear mis­ence with Mrs. Thatcher after siles. an afternoon of talks. 
The two leaders, trying to Kohl said he was optimistic reach a compromise on a the disagreement could be re­stalemate that has split the solved before a North Atlantic NATO alliance, described their Treaty Organization summit in superpowers begin talks on reducing the short-range nu­clear weapons. 
Kohl's call has placed him in a battle of wills with Mrs. Thatcher and President Bush. 
Washington and London reject the early negotiations. 
Manning named 'Ugly Man' 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Senior Staff Reporter 
Sophomore Mark Manning won the 1989 Ugliest Man on Campus Award with a total of $710.24 raised in monetary votes. 
A total of $1,376.52 was raised in this annual quest to find the ugliest man at Notre Dame, with the money benefitting the American Cancer Society, said Michele Feick. Nine male stu­dents, two professors, one rec­tor and a female student all received votes. 
Manning had students col­lecting door to door in campus dorms. "I would like to thank the guys in lOB Flanner, the girls in Siegfried and the guys in Sorin who helped me," said Manning. Beside door to door campaigning, Manning put signs up outside both dining halls and around campus in an effort to "get my name around." 
Manning and his campaign crew started making signs on Monday and started to collect on Tuesday. They raised $600 in three days, said Manning . 
According to Manning, the students from Siegfried and Sorin rolled all the money. Most of the money was in pennies, there was $137 in bills, said Manning. He said that over $500 of the donations was in pennies. 
Manning said that he ran be­cause he's "really committed to the Cancer Society.'' He said that running for UMOC is a Flanner lOB tradition and that last year a sophomore from the section was the UMOC. Man-

YOU CAN'T FIND THEM AT THE BOOKSTORE! 
ALL ALBUMS PRICED FROM$ 2 TO$ 4 
AT THE CELLAR YEAR-END SALE 
ning added that he will not run next year so that another soph­omore from the section can run. 
Manning said he was pre­sented with a tee-shirt at recess on Friday. On Saturday he said that he led the mud chariots to the pits. Manning stated that he was tossed into the mud pits once he arrived. 
Junior Daniel Yu raised $207.17 for charity, to be second in the UMOC. He said that he didn't have much help, only three or four people helped him raise money. "I raised more than 80% of the money alone," said Yu. 
Yu said he started campaign­ing Sunday night for the con­test. He said he ran for UMOC just for the "honor of being the ugliest guy around." He also said that raising money for charity is good. 
Yu said he distributed flyers around campus with his dog­book that said, "With a dog­book picture like this he must be ugly." He said that he will not run again next year but "to come this close is an honor in itself.'' 
Carl Starn, associate profes­sional specialist and director of choral music, came in third place with $133.38. "My cam­paign manager let me down, frankly," said Starn. "Not enough people believe in my ugliness." 
Starn said this is the second year that he came in third place. For about a year Starn has been campaigning for UMOC. He said he placed a jar for donations from students after glee club and choral. But, said Starn, "it was not quite enough." 
Starn wanted to cut his hair in a ROTC joe on the quad as a public act of ugliness, but he had public performances around the time of the voting. Next year Starn said he wants to win. 
Other people who received votes but were not mentionep in the graphic were Mik'e Paese, Dr. Charles Kulpa and members of Flanner Hall . 
And the winner is. • •
Man On Campus results 

Mark Manning $710.24 Dan-0 Yu 207.17 Prof. Carl Starn 133.38 Kevin Mochen 74.88 

John "The Tool Face" Dice Brian "Woofin' & Barkin"' O'Fallon Prof. Morton Fuchs "Diamond" Dave Bruner 
Fr. Michael Sullivan Kathleen McKernan Mark J. Hahn Mark Rizzieri 69.88 67.68 65.00 19.94 
5.93 4.00 3.57 3.00 
Total Raised: $1376.52 
Proceeds go to American Cancer Society Last year's total biggest ever: over $1,700 
The Observer I Laura Stanton 

..........~.
;:=======~···· .....-.... -========:-~
' 
ALLIED HEALTH PROFESSIONALS 
The Air Force can make you an attractive offer-out­
standing .c_ompensation plus 
opportumt1es for professional 
development. You can have a 
challenging practice and time 
to spend with your family while 
you serve your country, Find out 
what the Air Force offers. Call 
CAPT CULHANE 
~17-848-5830 
COLLECT 


---~-----------------------­
page 4 The Observer 



Space-age model building 
Bruce Owens, a NASA representative, places a model of the Magellan Space Probe inside a mockup Space Shuttle Atlantis. Atlantis was supposed to lift-off on Friday, but is delayed. 
•

Boycotts 1n China spread 
Associated Press 
BEIJING--The class boycott by Beijing university students demanding democracy has spread to the nearby city of Tianjin despite heavy pressure from local authorities, students in Tianjin said Sunday. 
They also said about 10,000 students from Tianjin Univer­sity and Nankai University held a protest march Friday in the port city to show support for Beijing students who marched the previous day. 
The Beijing march, in which 150,000 students and ordinary citizens joined, was the biggest protest in 40 years of commu­nist rule. It capped nearly two weeks of demonstrations by students calling for a free press and protection of human rights. 

About 70,000 Beijing students have been boycotting class for a week. 
So far, most of the protest ac­tivity has been limited to the capital, although smaller marches have been reported in several other cities. Tianjin, 68 miles east of Beijing, is the only other city where a large-scale class boycott has been re­ported. 
A Tianjin University activist said the boycott began April24, the same day as in Beijing, and that 90 percent of N ankai stu­dents and 70 percent of Tianjin University students were taking part. 
He said students marched peacefully through the city Friday but did not demonstrate outside government offices. 
The mayor of Tianjin, Li Ruihuan, is among officials who have been criticized by students in Beijing for al­legedly having gotten his job through nepotism. Li is the son­in-law of Wan Li, the chairman of the National People's Congress. 
One killed in British shooting spree 
Associated Press 
WHITLEY BAY, England-­A man dressed in black and armed with a shotgun went on a shooting spree Sunday in a northeastern coastal town, kil­ling one man and injuring 13 people before being arrested, officials said. 
Police were questioning the man to determine the motive for his rampage in Monkseaton, about a mile from the Whitley Bay seaside resort and 250 miles northeast of Lon­don. 
The gunman, who was not identified, roamed the streets shooting at anyone he saw, in­cluding one person in a car, an­other on a bicycle, one in a gar­den and one outside a church, said a spokesman for the am­bulance service. 

"There must have been about 12 different locations given where this man had gone round," said Ken Heads, sup­erintendent of the Nor­thumbria ambulance service. "He was having a go at any person he met." 
Witnesses said the gunman was dressed all in black and wore dark sunglasses. They said he wore an ammunition belt around his waist and prowled the streets for 15 minutes, pausing only to shoot. 
The first emergency call came at 12:01 p.m,, Heads said. 
HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY MARIA 
L.Y.L.S. 
Love, Mom, Dad, Meg, Kate, and Chip 

Two shots were fired at the am­bulance as it arrived, and the crew had to dive for cover, he said. 
A second ambulance was dis­patched, and within three or four minutes the service was inundated with calls reporting a gunman on the loose. They reported people lying injured in the streets, he said. 
Police identified the dead man as Kenneth Mackintosh, 41, a telephone company em­ployee, who was married and had two children. 
Monday, May 1, 1989 

Bush honors 200 years of the U.S. presidency 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK--President Bush on Sunday retraced the ' · ihaugural steps of another president named George who took the oath two centuries ago that cemented him in history as "the father of our country." 
Participating in celebrations of the 200th anniversary of George Washington's in­auguration as the first U.S. president, Bush said his for­bearer "established a precedent for 40 presidents to follow." 
"It was Washington's vision, his balance, his integrity, that made the presidency possi­ble,'' Bush told a gathering out­side the historic Federal Hall where Washington was sworn in on April 30, 1979. 
The 41st president reflected on the "awesome prospect" that faced Washington on that day. 
"How unlikely it must have seemed then, that we might be­come United States. How un­certain, that a republic could be hewn out of the wilderness of competing interests," Bush said. "But George Washington defined and shaped this of­fice." 
Bush said Washington "created a living, functioning government" based on the Con­stitution. "He brought together men of genius--a team of giants, with strong and compet­ing views. He harnessed and di­rected their energies." 
On a day awash with histori­cal symbolism, Bush sat in the church pew where Washington prayed on that first Inaugura­tion Day, trod the steps of Federal Hall where the first president took his oath, and waved goodbye to an actor recreating the departure of a newly inaugurated President Washington. 
The ceremony ended with a rain of brightly colored confetti and fresh carnations cascading from office towers onto the crowd. 
Speaking to a crowd of several thousand people from behind a glass wall on the Federal Hall steps, Bush seemed not to notice a handful of protesters who waved signs reading "We demand health care," and chanted "100 days and nothing done, what about AIDS?" 
Bush spoke of Washington's dedication to service and repeated his own often-stated call for Americans to follow that calling today. 
"Today we seek a new en­gagement in the lives of others, believing that success is not measured by the sum of our possessions, our positions, or our professions, but by the good we do for others," he said. 
Bush and his wife Barbara, joined by their daughter Doro LeBlond and Bush's brother Jonathan Bush, began their day in New York with church ser­vices at St. Paul's Chcrpel, where Washington attended services on his Inauguration Day. 
The ceremony attended by Bush included a enactment of Washington's swearing in by actors in colonial costume standing in front of the large statue of Washington on the Federal Hall steps. 
It's true... this cute tyke was 22 on Saturday and will graduate this month Happy Birthday, Wose! 
Love, the Mom, the Dad, Joanna, Katie, and Matt 
Attention Sophomores 
Place your ring order before you leave for SUMMER VACATION. This will assure you of having it when you return to school in the fall. HOURS: 1:00 P.M. to 4:30P.M. Monday -Friday 
IN THE OFFICE ON THE FIRST FLOOR HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

Il_ 


~·~-----~-1 

Monday, May 1, 1989 

The Observer I Trey Reymond John Bergmann of malicious Prostitution goes up for a shot against Kevin Warren in semifinal action Saturday. Malicious Prostitution won that game and then defeated Adwork's 21-19 in the final game Sunday afternoon. 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer JMt advertising. ~ 
0 Call 239-6900 ·~ 
Take off with low fares. 
• Unlimited Mileage on One-Way Our offer is only good through Rentals June 1 , 1989 , so get a 
• 
24-Hr. Emergency Road Service move on. 


• 
Full Range of Truck Sizes For quality, comfort, cost and 

• 
Clean, Smooth-Running Trucks convenience, no other rental truck 

• 
Many Trucks With Auto Trans­con move you like a Hertz Penske mission and Air Conditioning truck. 


Hertz 


4311 North Mayflower Rd. South Bend, IN 46628-9743 219-277-0144 2220 T aledo Road Elkhart, IN 46516-5538 219-293-0541 
THE WINNING TEAM: HERTZ PENSKE AND YOU. 
Not all trucks available at all locations. All local and one-woy rentals subject to Hertz 
Penske standard rental qualifications. ©Hertz Penske Truck leasing, Inc. 1985. You pay for gas, to.:es, tolls, collision damage waiver, and parking and driving violations. Drop it off at any participating Hertz Penske Truck Rental location. 
The Observer 
Men 
continued from page 16 
The score was first an­nounced as 11-9 Adworks, but the individual stats totalled 10 points for Malicious Prostitu­tion instead of the nine that were included on the running score. Adworks did not protest the change, apparently un­aware the error had been made. 
"Was it really a mistake?" Derrick Johnson wondered after the game. 
Adworks has displayed a propensity to struggle early in 
tournament  games  only  to  
pounce  on  their  opponents'  
second-half  miscues,  setting  

their fine transition game in motion. And for a while in the second half Sunday, it looked like Adworks would do the same against Malicious Pros­titution. 
Adworks added to their lead immediately following the in­termission when Derek Brown tipped in a missed shot for a 12-10 lead. However, Scott brought his team back to tie the game at 12, 14 and 15 and delivered a message to Adworks--they would not run away with this game. 
The game, which featured 11 lead changes, see-sawed back­and-forth for the next several minutes until the 19-19 dead­lock. Enter Scott, who first dished off to Flynn to give Mali­cious Prostitution a 20-19 lead, and then sealed the victory with a jumper from the left side. 
"I didn't know Joe Scott was that potent," said Johnson. "He just came through in the clutch for them." 
Johnson, who led Adworks with eight points, was tied with Scott with five first-half buck­ets and was considered by many as the odds-on favorite for MVP. But once Adworks fell behind, the focus shifted to 
Commissioners announce awards 
Bookstore Basketball XVIII The other awards: is now history, but awards and Golden Hatchet: Steve Belles honors will keep the memories Hoosier Award: Vince Duncan 
All-Star MVP: Aaron Robb 
alive, at least for awhile. 
Iron Man: Joe Lacher 
Team members from Mali­cious Prostitution took the two 
First Team All-Bookstore: most coveted honors. Jim Chris Jenks: No I in Team Tim Woods--Fugitive Guys 
Flynn was named Mr. 
Mike Luzum--Killer Bees 
Bookstore, while Joe Scott was 
Tim Cryan-·Lenny's Grill the tourney MVP. Derrick Johnson--Adwork's 
Crass of1990 Senior ({ass CJ:rip 
Octo6er 22-29, 1989 
Cancun, Me~co 
For $ 509 the trip will include: 
* 
Round trip transportation to Chicago's O'Hare Air­port and non-stop, round trip air service to Cancun. 

* 
8 day&7 nights accomodations at the Oasis Cancun. 

* 
All taxes, gratuities, and departure tax. 


The Oasis Cancun offers: *A prime location on 30 acres of Caribbean beach. 
* 
114 mile network of swimming pools (with swim-up bars). 

* 
many other benefits 


Sign-ups with $150 deposit payable to Univ. of N. 0 are in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune, until May 12. 
Hurry and reserve your spot NOW! Any questions? Call John MacQuarrie or Michele Feick. 
page 13 

I Teams I 
Scott, and Johnson had to settle for first-team All-Bookstore honors. 
"I would rather have won the tournament," said Johnson, "but being named to the first­team was nice also." 
The crowd, which was anyth­ing but bashful in its support for Malicious Prostitution, was to play a big factor in the out­come. During a first-half free­throw attempt by Adworks' John "Booger" Buscher, the crowd rose to its feet and cheered as though it were call­ing for goal-line heroics from the Irish defense. Buscher's shot fell short of the rim. 
The road to the final wasn't easy for Malicious Prostitu­tion, who first had to get by Murphy's Bar before turning its attention to Adworks. Scott was the catalyst in that one as well, popping in 11 baskets in his team's 21-19 semifinal win over Murphy's. 
Malicious Prostitution had an easier time of it in its quar­terfinal match with No "I" in Team, rolling to a 21-12 victory. 6'10" center Pete Van Dyke connected on eight-of-13 shots from inside the paint to pace the winners. 
Adworks discovered how dif­ficult it is to repeat when every upset-minded team in the tournament is gunning for you in their two games prior to Sun­day's final. 
Point guard Keyes scored five points and Johnson and Tony Rice each chipped in four as Adworks outlasted Coach's 21-19 in their semifinal game. Buscher keyed Adworks in their 21-18 win over Killer Bees with seven baskets, many com­ing on his trademark bank shot from the left wing. 
In other weekend action, Co­ach's overcame a halftime def­icit and Sean Connor's nine points to beat Minahoonies 21­15 in one quarterfinal game, and Murphy's Bar rode Kevin Warren's 10-of-14 shooting to a 21-19 win over Fugitive Guys Finale, also on Friday. 
Second Team All· Bookstore: Mark Granger--Rodan Sky Paul Fulling--Eddie and the Cruisers Stuart Healy-·Khomeni's Bounty Tim Kennessy--Fugitive Guys Kevin Keyes--Adworks 
Third Team All-Bookstore: 
J .C. Treybus--Minahoonies Dwayne Treolo--Rubber Cement Todd Wagenblast··Rodan Sky Ray Flanney--Touch-N-Go Mark Laboe--Bennitt's 
South All·Stars: Sean Connor, J.C. Treybus, Tim Woods, Paul Fulling and Todd Wagenblast 
North All-Stars: Chris Jenks, Ray Flannery, Aaron Robb, Mike Luzum and Steve Belles 
Holtz Team: Tony Rice, Todd Lyght, Tom Gorman, Andy Heck and Rodney Culver 
Join The Observer 
KENTUCKY CENTEQ 
or 

P6YCH06YNI1IE&I<£, 
Offers basic trainif18 programs 
June 28July 2 
Aug. 17-Aug. 20 
For information~ please contact: 
436 W. 2nd St. --·· teJdngton,·I<Y 40508 


page 14 The Observer Monday, May 1, 1989 
Irish ready for future after season-ending win· 
By BOB MITCHELL 
Sports Writer 
It was 8:30p.m. on Saturday night, and all eyes of the Notre Dame contingent were focused on court No. 5 where senior Dave Reiter was miraculously coming back from a 5-2 deficit in the third set against Illinois St.'s Dan Woestiendick. Even­tually Reiter won the third set 7-5, markeing the end of Reiter's tennis career as well as the end of Notre Dame promising 19-9 season. 
But this particular end does not suggest the termination of success. Tthe end of the Irish's 66th campaign contained signs of a brilliant future. 
With seven nationally ranked recruits that already have their plane tickets to South Bend, Notre Dame men's tennis team and coach Bob Bayliss is relieved that the season has fi­nally come to a close yet one 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
Redwine. "They hit the ball well, and their pitching's the best in the conference." 
Notre Dame also fell behind in Sunday's first game, buf had no problems coming back. After spotting the Musketeers a 3-0 lead in the first inning, the Irish scored twice in their half of the first on a Dan Peltier homer that soared over the left field scoreboard. 
The Irish scored five more times off Xavier's Bill Wittich (2-4). James Sass tripled to drive home Pat Eilers and Pat Pesavento, while Frank Jacobs and Mike Moshier each hit RBI singles. 
Pesavento, who also scored on the Peltier homer, went 9­of-13 with five runs in the series to up his batting average to 
.366. 

eye is already glancing at next year's schedule. Not to put undo pressure on the Irish but Bayliss will have his most talented team that may crack the Collegiate Top 20. 
On Saturday morning at the outdoor Courtney Tennis Cen­ter, the Irish jumped all over the No. 4 nationally ranked Division III Kalamazoo Col­lege. The Irish handed a 12-6 Kalamazoo squad a convincing 5-1 loss. The doubles competi­tion was not played because it would not change the outcome of the match. 
''The focal point of the Kalamazoo dual match season is the Notre Dame match." said Bayliss. "If you check the scores for the past few years the scores have been 5-4 one way or another so it was good to beat them as decisively as we did and without Walter Dol­hare (strip throat). Not that it was totally unexpected but ex-
Notre Dame added single runs in the fourth and fifth to extend the Irish lead to 8-2. 
After allowing three runs in the first inning, Erik Madsen (8-3) held the Musketeers scoreless until a three-run rally in the seventh. 
'Madsen was excellent," said Murphy. "He's got the experi­ence and he knows how to clutch up in the key situations with men on base." 
Notre Dame jumped out to a lead in Saturday's second game, but it did not last long. Notre Dame scored two runs in both the second and third in­nings to take a 4-0 lead. 
Xavier rebounded with a four-run rally off Irish starter Mike Passilla in the fourth in­ning to tie the game. Xavier tried to take the lead in the fifth inning with a squeeze play. Irish reliever Joe Binkiewicz (2-1) fielded Kevin Toohig's bunt cleanly and Notre Dame 
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT 
In the next few years, the number of jobs requiring a college education will greaUy exceed the number ol college graduates available to fill them. Employers are racing against time and each other to begin attracting future college graduates to their organizations. 
Don1 waste )OUr summer working low-paying menial labor type jobs. MIDWEST SUMMER GO-OP represents thousands of Indiana corporations and organizations that want to hire college students to work full-time during the summer In car-related positions. Work In 'f04I! field of Interest and gain valuable experience while earning a respectable income this summer. To beelig­Ible you must have completed a minimum of one year(24 credit hours) In college and have attained at least a "C" (2.0 on a 4.0 scale) grade point average. 
To get your summer posHion. simply match )OUr caraer Interests to the need& of an employer lis­ted In our SUMMER CQ-OP DIRECTORY. The directory lists thousands of summer posllions available throughout Indiana Job descriptionsare organized Into 53general catagorles-Account­Ing, Advertising, Design, Englnaering (civil, electrical, mechanical), Educallon, Fashion Merchan­dising, Finanoa, Graphic Arts, Law, Markellng, Nursing, etc. Whatever )OUr Interest, there are a number of positions to choose from. Work wnh and learn from some of the top professionals In Indiana The directorycomes complete wnh application materials and a toll-free number to call lor assistance In arranging interviews. 
OUR GUARANTEE 
Forevery summer position we fill wnh an eligible college studen~ MIDWEST SUM­MER CQ-OP receives a faa from the employer lor our services. Servicas to the employer Include: listing In our directory, pre-scraenlng applicants and arranging 
interviews. Our servicas are at no cost to the college student However, we cannot afford to waste our time and resources on those who are nol serious about finding quality summer employment The costs of producing and sending the directories alone (they are the size of a telephone book) are -v high. This Is why we must request $5 to help cover the costs of each directory and set of application materials we send out H)OU are unable to lind a summer position suitable to your need& and interests, you can return them lorafull refund. Hyoudoacoaptaposition, under a list­ing agreement wnh MIDWEST SUMMER CO-QP, the employer wiK refund the $5 on 'f04I! first paycheck. 
This Is an excellent opportunity to ''taste" )OUr career Interests In thereal w011d beforecompleting a degree. Take advantage altha ahrtnklng pool ol educated workers. Earn while you learn this summer. Flexible jobsto Ill your vacation schedule. All jobsprovide great payand benlftta. (Com­panies areallowed sizeable tax crectns lorhiring college students OYer the summer.) So, whet will H be? Fast food live or Fortune 5I:XJ? The choice Is yours. 
Don1 procrastinate, this can be a -vImportant and valuable summerlor you. Please direct all Inquiries to our processing center in IUinols. Send your name, current school addreaa, home address, and $5 (refundable) to: 
MIDWEST SUMMER CO·OP 
Indiana Applications Dept. Oak Brook Center, Box 954 Oak Brook, IL 60522-954 
Make check or money order payable to MIDWEST SUMMER CO-QP. 
Directory and application materials will be sent out to you by express mall the same day we receive your request. Please, no phone calls until alter )OU have looked through the directory and know which poaiUons you are Interested ln. A directory lisllng thousands of summer posllions In Mllnols Is also available. Send requests to the Illinois Applications Dept at the same eddresa above. 
MIDWEST SUMMER CQ-OP Is a supporter of the Indiana Hire the Future Summer Job Program. 
pecting it and doing it are dif­ferent things." 
Although the score indicates a relatively easy match for the Irish, in fact the match in­cluded two three set affairs and four deuce sets. 
"I was pleased with the way we played," said Kalamazoo Coach George Acher. "I was really happy that it was that close. Notre Dame's consis­tency has really improved, they hit fewer unforced errors and they sustained their con­centration a lot longer than we did. I was also impressed with their sportsmanship and the fact that they were all gentleman on the court." 
In the nightcap, the Irish were forced to take the match into the Eck Pavilioo because of the unpredictable weather. The change of scenery did not adveresly affect the Irish as they recorded their fourth 
catcher Ed Lund blocked the plate and tagged out Scott Gor­don to kill the rally. 
Peltier led off the Notre Dame half of the fifth by sting­ing Xavier starter Rob Kramer's first pitch over the right field wall. Later in the in­ning, after Kramer intention­ally walked Jacobs to load the bases, Eilers knocked in two runs with a bases-loaded double. 
Binkiewicz pitched 3 2-3 in­nings of scoreless relief to earn the victory. Normally a first baseman, Binkiewicz could see more time on the mound now that Jacobs is healthy. Jacobs went 6-of-13 with five RBI playing first base instead of Binkiewicz this weekend. 
''Binkiewicz has good stuff,'' 
said Murphy. "He's a .300 hit­
ter. It's just a matter of trying shutout of the season downing Illinois St., 6-0, again not playing the doubles because it could not alter the outcome of the match. 
All six Notre Dame players turned in good performances, as only Paul Odland and Dave Reiter were pushed to three sets yet they both edged their respective opponents to ice the win. In this final match, Reiter finished his career in a dream­like fashion. After spliiting the first two sets with Illinois St.'s Woestendick, Reiter fought back from 5-2 to capture a win at the No. 5 flight. 
"I was walking up to shake his hand," said Reiter. "I thought he played pretty well and it felt incredible to come back." 
As for senior team captain Brian Kalbas, the Carmel, IN. resident earned his 85th and 
to focus on pitching. 
"Frank is just coming into his own as a baseball player," Murphy continued, referring to Notre Dame's tight endfirst baseman. "He's had a tough se­mester. His first priority was football, and maybe we were asking too much of him. Now he has his schoolwork under control, and he can concentrate more on baseball. He's a heck of a baseball player and can be a real asset." 
The Irish added two runs in the sixth and eighth, while Xavier scored two in the ninth to end the scoring at 11-6. 
In the first game, Brian Piotrowicz (7-3) pitched a three-hit shutout to outduel Xavier's Scott Gordon (5-3). Piotrowicz did not walk a single batter. 

"When Brian doesn't over­throw, he can be tough against anybody," said Murphy. "That's the key to our pitching philosophy, not to walk anybody." Sass drove in Ed Lund and Jacobs with a single in the fourth, and Peltier's fifth-inning single drove home Pesavento with the game's only other run. 
Gordon, who doubles as Xavier's leading pitcher (2.66 ERA) and hitter (.366 average with 48 RBI) earned praise from Redwine, though it's not the kind of praise Dan Peltier fans would want to hear. 
"Scott Gordon is the premier player in the conference," said Redwine. "Peltier's a good hit­ter, but Scott Gordon's not only a great hitter but a great pitcher." 

Tin1e to celebrate! 
, . Congratulations~ You mad<' it to gruduntion and now it's tinw to prepare forth" future. The IBM Personal System/2' Model30 286 helps you progn·ss ' from l<'rm papers and lah n•ports to prP~entations and sprl'adsheets with pizzazz_ Thr. PS/2 i\lodcl30 286 has exciting, specially selected 
II: ~ · ·. < II software that is eas)·to us<'.loadr.ti and ready to eo. So
·T T ¥".,. ' 
c. 

~-1:1: .~-. J '· ___-_ . ·-··-~-·-, ~"'-~· ~s:~~ 
final singles win for Notre Dame by humbling Mark Gurenther, 6-4, 6-3. Yet Kalbas's life at Notre Dame is not quite finished. He has been named Notre Dame's first full­time assistant coach for the 1989-1990 season. 
"It really hasn't hit me yet that this is my last match,'' said Kalbas. "It seems like I am going to be around next year playing but I'm not. But when it hits me it is going to be sad but you have to move on." 
All things considered, the 1988-1989 Irish could not have asked for a better year. The team faced its most challeng­ing schedule in history and bet­tered last season 17-13 record. Notre Dame beat six teams that they had lost to last year as well as knocking off nation­ally ranked North Carlina, Ohio State and Murray St. 
take advantage of this incredihl~offer and stop in and Sl'(' us today. Hurry! OffcrcxpircsJune30,1989. 
Notre Dame Computer Store 
Office of University Computing
FREE T ·SHIRT 
Computing Center Room 25 ---­
while supplies last ----­
239-7477 ----­
---·­

Buy now and tell us send it to my hometown IBM dealer 
'This offer is limited to qualified students, faculty and staff who order an IBM PS/2 Model 8530·E21 on or before June 30. 1989. Microsoft Word is the Academic EditiOn. Prices quoted do not mclude sales tax. handling and/or processing charges. Check with your institution regarding these charges. Orders are subject to availability. IBM may withdraw the promotion at any time without written notice. 
IBM Per10nal Svstem/2 and PS/2 are f'e91Sleted trademarks ol tnternallonal Bus1ness Mach.ne! Corpora110n M1Crosoi11S a ll!qiSiered trademark of MICrosoft CorPQfa!IOn hOC W1ndows 1!1 a trademark ol the hOC CorporaiK>n 


Monday, May 1, 1989 
The Observer page 15 
CAMPUS EVENTS CROSSWORD 
~CA PUS SA DS: . • 
• 
~s1gn up to play next year. •• ••• ­
• : Short meeting tonight at 6:30 pm. •• : ·SUB office 2nd floor. . 

7 p.m. Adult Children of Alcoholics meeting upstairs in the Center for Social Concerns. 
8 p.m. SMC Music Department Student Voice Recital by Kelli Finn, Little Theatre. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
11 :30 a.m. Economics Development workshop "The Effect of Alienation on Afro-American Development," by Hollis Price, Room 131 Decio. 
1 p.m. Marketing symposium "The Federal Trade Commis­sion in the 1990's," by James Miller, former chairman, Center for Continuing Education. 
2 p.m. Marketing symposium "The American Bar Associa­tion's Special Committee Report," by Stephen Calkins, Wayne State Univerity, Center for Continuing Education. 
3:15p.m. Management lecture "Research on Worker Partic­ipation on Decision-making: Hisotry, Fads, Fallacies, and Facts," by Edward Locke, University of Maryland, Hayes­Healy Auditorium. 
MENUS 
Notre Dame 
Ham & Turkey Sandwich Top Round of Beef Broiled Turbot Eggplant Parmesan 
COMICS 
BLOOM COUNTY THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
0 1981 Chtontcte Fe.tutttS Distributed by UntY8f'UI Preu Syndicate 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON 
~t-\.1 O.Kl I OOtil TI\I~K AI'\'{ONE. \100LD FINDJ40BBES! S'TtAL A STUFFED TlGER. HELP ME t\KD C'~.ms 1:/j lOOK. 1-\IW WII~J IF... \1\lfo.f IF 1\\E'L 
5·1 

"I can't believe It! ... One lousy liHie bee gets Inside and you just freak out." 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
51 Adjective for a loner 53 Still and all 55 Theol degree 56 Pistol 
58 Animal resembling a swine 
62 Part of an auto tire 63 N.C. city 65 Writes 66 Gossip, Yiddish style 
67 Circuit 
68 Exist 

69 Controversial Reagan appointee 70 Sea bird 
DOWN 
1 Dear follower 2 Keats or Yeats 3 China 
predecessor 4 Nev. resort lake 5 Spring mo. 6 Entice 7TNT 8 Choreographer 
DeMille 

9 Col's command 10 Yukon capital 11 Soviet co-op 12 Regret 36 Brad or spad 54 Put off an 
15 Molasses 37 Fast planes agenda item 
17 Cinders of 39 Vacuum tubes 57 Dividers at 
comics Wimbledon
41 Inlet
23 Sabra 
59 Indigent

44 Common Market 
25 Fowl spot 

initials 60 Do a laundry job 
26 Actress Britt 

49 Hollywood 61 Lariat
27 Disembark 

structures 62 Bad Ems, e.g. 
28 Sheltered at sea 29 Famed writer on 51 Eighth son of 63 Where to find English law Jacob dumbbells 31 South, to Rene 52 Consent 64 Scottie's dissent 
ACROSS 
1 Partner of polish 5 Wedding locale 10 Wouk's "The 
Winds of-" 13 Hebrides island 14 Cleanse 15 Piercing 
preposition 16 Mystery-novel 
item 18 Ceremony 19 Kind of pigeon 20 Opp. of WSW 21 Summer in 
Savoie 22 Yale athlete 24 Third word of 
"Moby-Dick" 27 Sci. spot 30Aide: Abbr. 32"To-his 

own" 33 Sum total 34 Capek play 
about robots 35 Stockings 38 Precise 40 Decorate 42 Epochs 43 Edict 45 Bind 46 Take a chair 47 Baltic port 48 Scullers' needs 
50 They're high in Chi. 

Sports 
Monday, May 1, 1989
pa_ge 16 

Malicious Prostitution, Sparky's capture titles 
Adworks' finds tables turned, cannot defend Bookstore title 
By FRANK PASTOR 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Throughout Bookstore Bas­ketball XVIII, Adworks' All­Stars dodged accusations that they bullied officials, not through verbal or physical abuse, but rather by their pres­ence alone. 
Popular opinion had it that the defending champs received favorable treatment from referees, particularly in the area of team fouls. It was no mere coincidence, many agreed, that Adworks often reached the bonus before their opponents did. 
The tables turned on Ad­works Sunday afternoon at Stepan Center when they met Malicious Prostitution and its touring entourage in the tourn­ament final. Adworks was whistled for an unseemly num­ber of first-half fouls, sending their opponent to the line ear­lier than any of its predeces­sors. 
Malicious Prostitution used this momentum to its advan­tage in derailing Adworks' quest to repeat as Bookstore champions 21-19 behind Joe Scott's 11 points, all to the delight of an upset-hungry crowd. 
Trailing 19-18, Malicious Prostitution pulled the rug out from under Adworks' title drive by rallying to score three consecutive baskets to stake its claim to the championship in a tournament that began nearly a month ago with 672 teams vying to become. No. 1. 
Down the stretch, Malicious Prostitution looked to the hot Scott, whose jump shot never strayed from its intended path to the hoop. Scott was clearly the deciding factor in the game and was rewarded for his out­standing play with the tourna­ment MVP award. 
"It was just one of those games," said Scott, a law stu­dent who played his collegiate ball at Princeton. "At the end of the game, someone had to step up and make the shots." 
A scoring controversy erupted prior to the start of the second half when Malicious Prostitution received a point it never scored. The point was awarded to Scott. 
Derrick Johnson hit a jumper from the right wing to stake Ad­works to an 11-9 halftime lead, but the score went down in the books as 11-10 in favor of the defending champs. 
see MEN I page 13 


Scott was star, but it was team victory 
When Bookstore Basketball XVIII began, Joe Scott was not a familiar name. That was not surprising in a tournament with names like Tony Rice, Lou Holtz, Jim Dolan and Andy Heck. 
A day after the tournament has ended, try to find someone who doesn't know him. Like a lottery winner, Scott probably now has friends he never knew existed. 
In 1984, Scott helped Princeton to the NCAA Tournament. Sunday afternoon, he led Malicious Prostitution to the Bookstore championship, scoring 11 points in a 21-19 victory over Adwork's All-Stars. 
Scott engineered the fitting conclusion to a tournament that at times seemed like it would never end, while at other times seemed like nobody wanted it to end. 
Some might compare it to David downing Goliath or Prince­ton winning the NCAA Championship. It seemed like good versus evil, a group of upstart and lanky law students against the defending champs. 
Earlier in the tourney, some members of Adwork's looked at Malicious Prostitution playing on another court and remarked, "Who are the Celtics over there," a reference to 

-
The Observer I Trey Raymond 

Ed Lund helped the Notre Dame baseball team win three of four games from Xavier over the weei<end to improve its record to 35-12. 
Greg Guffey 

Assistant Sports Editor 


the law students' plainness and traditional style of play. 
In warmups Sunday, Adwork's put on a dunking exhibition, while Malicious Prostitution calmly shot layups. The contrast was striking. It almost looked like the Harlem Globetrotters were preparing to play the Washington Generals. 
But you don't get points for how you look in warmups. When the real game started, Scott was the one who stole the show. 
If Malicious Prostitution was the Celtics, Scott was Larry Bird, Bob Cousy and Bill Russell all rolled into one. In the final three games of the tourney, he scored 26 points. 
Scott, the Bookstore MVP, helped Malicious Prostitution 
see scon 1page 12 
Winners leave trail of victims 
By MOLLY MAHONEY 
Sports Writer 
Sparky's Franchise II just 
landed a spot on easy street. 
After coasting through a rather tame East bracket of the women's bookstore tourna­ment, Sparky's cruised passed An Angel, Sally's Comet and Three Other Heavenly Bodies, 21-10, Sunday to claim the championship. 
Sparky's game plan was simple: Sandy Botham. 
Last year's Miss Bookstore dominated play, tallying 11 points and grabbing eight rebounds. 
Using some of the moves that made her three-time first team All-North Star Conference as a former member of the Notre Dame women's basketball team, Botham controlled the paint, missing only five shots from the field--four of which came on fouls. 
"It was another great bookstore," said Botham. "It was a lot of fun and I'm just glad I got a chance to play with a lot of great athletes with great attitudes." 
Ellen Mouch helped the win­ning cause by adding five points and dishing out several assists. 
"It was a total team win," said Mouch echoing Botham's sentiments. "I think we were in the easier of the brackets, but down the stretch, in the Final Eight, we had some good games." 
Yvette Angel, who was named this year's Miss Bookstore for her outstanding play throughout the tourney, proved why she was given top billing by keeping An Angel, Sally's Comet and Three Other Heavenly Bodies in the game. 
Angel, an assistant coach on the Notre Dame women's bas­ketball team and former Ohio State standout, finished with six points and three rebounds and got a helping hand from head coach Muffet McGraw who added four points. 
"It was a lot more competi­
see WOMEN I page 12 

Irish take three from Xavier 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 

You can't keep a good team down forever. 
And the Notre Dame baseball team learned Sunday that you can't do it to a bad team either. 
After winning three straight from Xavier this weekend at Jake Kline Field, the Irish fell to Midwest Collegiate Confer­ence foe Xavier in the last of a four-game series. 
Xavier (14-33, 6-10 in the MCC East) won the second game of Sunday's doubleheader 6-2 to salvage one win in the four­game series with the Irish. Notre Dame had beaten Xavier 12 times in a row, dating back to 1987, before Sunday. 
"We beat Notre Dame regu­larly a few years back when we were veterans and they were young," said Xavier coach Larry Redwine. "Now it's their turn." 
Notre Dame (35-12, 11-5 in the MCC East) swept Saturday's doubleheader 3-0 and 11-6, then took Sunday's first game 8-5. 
Not one of the six Xavier players to score in Sunday's final game reached base on a hit. Instead, the Musketeers took advantage of five walks, five sacrifices and one hit bat­ter to score six runs on only six· hits. 
Irish starter Brian Conway (3-3) allowed just three hits in 6 1-3 innings, but the Irish left 11 men on base and could not catch up after falling behind 3-1 in the second inning. 
Conway did not get much help from the Irish bullpen. 
Mike Coffey allowed two runs in 1 2-3 innings of work, allow­ing Xavier to extend its lead from 4-2 to 6-2 in the late in­nings. 
"I'm concerned about our bullpen," said Irish coach Pat Murphy. "Mike Coffey hasn't been pitching well for about two weeks. He's got some me­chanical problems, and maybe he's thinking too much. 
"It's nice to say you're con­cerned when you're 35-12." 
Redwine could only think the same thing. His team, which lost 17 games in a row earlier this year, snapped a six-game losing streak with Sunday's win. 
"Notre Dame's the premier team in the conference," said 
see IRISH I page 14 






