
VOL. XXIII NO. 51 TUESDAY , NOVEMBER 14, 1989 
' THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Schlafly justifies 'traditional' roles for most women 
By PAUL PEARSON 
News Writer 
Tlw pnoplc who arc most well-off are those in "intact families," conservative activist Phyllis Schlafly said Monday. 
The traditional one-income family is still the most efficient way of support­ing people, said Schlafly, who lectures around the nation and has written several books. 
• Schlafly press conference I page 3 
In a lecture sponsored by the Student Union Board's Ideas and Issues Com­mission. Schlafly cited the feminist movement as a cause for most of the rec11nt changes in the roles of men and women in soeicty. 
One thing that has changed society most in recent ynars is the change in divorce laws, Schlany said, because "on11 person can do it without the consent of the other." 
After divorce. a woman's income usually drops 73 pPrcent, while a man's income rises 42 pnrcent. according to Srhlally. "That can hardly be called liberation for women," she said. 
Sehlally also pointed to the trend to­ward abortion, which she called a "battlP bPtween forces of life and forces of death." 
Schlally. a graduate of Harvard and Washington universities, defended the 
~ill Hoyt works on the chapel windows in Dillon Hall which had been broken during the Oct. 19 snowball f1ght that caused the initial suspension of hall funds. 
see SCHLAFLYI page 6 



Bush names Malloy to Drug Advisory Council 
By JOHN O'BRIEN press release, "the Council will importance of staying off According to a White House tential support" for the war News writer assist the President and the Di-drugs." spokesman, Bush "wanted a against drugs. rector of the Office of Drug •Coordinate existing private broad cross section of disci-According to the press re-
President Bush announced on Control Policy, William Bennett, and non-profit antidrug ef-plines and professions involved lease: "The Council will com-Monday the formation of a in the development of our na-forts. in the battle against drugs." He plement Director Bennett's Presidential Drug Advisory tiona! drug policy." •Involve the private sector "in added that Malloy was chosen public sector efforts by com-Council and named University With drug policy director the building of prisons and "because he represents the ar-municating with the American President Father Edward Mal­William Bennett at his side, jails." eas of higher education andre-people, encouraging private loy as a member. Bush urged the advisors to find Bush unveiled a nearly $8 bil-ligion and because he is a sector involvement, establishing 
"This council is composed of better ways to: lion antidrug strategy two leader in the fight against ille-a national support group and peopln, leaders in each of their months ago. gal drugs." soliciting the view of the Ameri­fields, who will not look the • Encourage employers to Malloy said, "I wanted to be can people." other way," said Bush. keep workplaces drug-free. involved on the local and na-According to Malloy, he is The 27-member council is 
The new advisers "all share • Enlist the aid of volunteers tiona! level in the fight against "the only representative from headed by William Moss of my goal of ridding America of in the fight against drugs. drugs and (the President's higher education and one of Texas, the president and illegal drugs," Bush said. •'Communicate to all Ameri­Council) provides the format to those from significant religious 
According to a White House cans. especially our young, the do so." traditions, two sources of po­see MONK I page 4 
ND researcher links extinctions to environment 
By DAVID CERTO dioxide caused a flowering 
News Writer plant explosion. 
As the plants flour­
A Notre Dame researcher ished,they reduced the car­
believes he may have discov­bon dioxide levels, allowing 
ered why dinosaurs became enough climatic change to 
extinct. produce seasons where be­
J. Keith Rigby, associate fore there had been only a professor of geology, re­perpetual summer. ported his findings to the To adapt to this change, annual meeting of the Inter­Rigby maintains, dinosaurs national Sociflty of Verte· developed thermoregulatory brate Paleontology last week structures to allow them to in Austin, Texas. Though the give off excess heat in the findings are still open for summer but still stay warm debate, Rigby was encour­in the winter. The frill of the aged by the paper's recep­famous Triceratops, he says, tion. is not armor, as has long 
Higby's theory is that di· been thought, but a soft nosaurs died due to changes mass of near-surface blood in the global environment. vessels for heat dispersion According to the theory. ele­akin to an elephant's ear. vated levels of carbon diox­Furthermore, Rigby has ide trapped the sun's energy, stated that the horns of making the earth much hot· Triceratops couldn't ter than it is now. This heat 
see EXTINCT/page 4 

and abundance of carbon 
Few women hold faculty positions 
By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Assistant News Editor 
Provost Timothy O'Meara said that Notre Dame has made significant progress in the last , ten years regarding to the hir­ing of women faculty members, but he said the University still has quite a way to go. 
This year, according to O'Meara. the College of Arts and Letters hired 18 new regu­lar teaching and research fac­ulty of whom eight were women. 
In the College of Business Administration, he said six new regular teaching and research faculty were hired, two of whom were women. There is a total of seven women on the faculty. 

hers in the college, excluding architecture. 
O'Meara said the College of Science hired ten new faculty members, three of whom were women. There is a total of ten women faculty in the college. 
"We're making some head­way," said O'Meara. 
In the fields of science and engineering the number of available women is just not as great as the number of men, he said. 
"The percentage of women on the faculty is not where we'd want it to be," said Eileen Kol­"There are no women officers of the University, no female deans and two female depart­ment chairs," said Kolman. 
Kathleen Biddick, associate professor of history and co­chair of the Faculty Senate Committee on the Status of 
. Women, said the. I !njve~'iity .has 
a problem retaining women 
faculty mel!!het's. 
She said that although many 
women have agonized over the 
decision to leave Notre Dame, 
they leave mostly because of the 
quality of life here. 
"All other things equal," Bid­
dick said. "many women will 
chose another university be­
cause of such things as parent­
ing leave." 
"We are behind peer institu­
tions in parenting leave," she said. Other University's allow either father or mother time off 
Ten new faculty members man, associate provost. and allow time off when adopt­were hired in the College of She said that there are still ing a child, said Biddick. Engineering, two of whom were situations on campus in which Presently Notre Dame has a women, he said. These are the women are not represented, or first two women faculty mem-only one woman is present. see WOMEN I page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN Socialist states leaving people 
alone for good 
The world will -------­
never be the same. The courage and vi­
sion  of  thousands  
who  have  marched  
for  freedom  in  

Poland, China, and now East Germany have inflicted a mor­


tal blow upon com-D B 
munism and the cen-ave runer tralized administra-Viewpoint Editor tive state. 
The quest for freedom in East Germany has swelled past the point of no return. The people's will for self-determination has proven superior to the state's quest for tyranny. 
The throngs of East German emigrants who have left their homes for a better life in the West bear witness that socialism is on its deathbed. The failure of centralized state planning of economic and political life is clear. Communism has failed in theory and in practice. 
But some refuse to acknowledge the obvious. On Friday, Barbara Ehrenreich, co-chairperson of the Democratic Socialists. of America, told a national television audience that "nothing has changed to alter the relevance and urgency of socialism ­democratic socialism." 
"The Russian coal miners who struck last summer did not strike to have their socialist bosses replaced by capitalist bosses. What the Russian miners struck for ... is what we call democratic socialism," she said. 
What the Russian miners, the Chinese demonstrators and the East German emi­grants yearn for is not socialism but auton­omy and freedom, the antithesis of social­ism. Socialism increases the state's power and legitimizes state tyranny; socialism has proved adept at oppression. Freedom seekers everywhere recognize that demo­cratic capitalism is the best hope for politi­cal autonomy. 
Of course, the demonstrators and emi­grants are seeking more than political freedom; they can no longer tolerate their desperate economic conditions. Here, too, capitalism is the better instrument of reform: Democratic capitalism is more productive, more efficient and works better than socialism, "democratic" or otherwise. 
About the only remaining claim that socialism has for its legitimacy is its sup­posed moral superiority to capitalism. Because capitalism lacks a focused center, a "master plan" for the development of society, it is sometimes attacked as immoral, or, minimally, amoral. 
The lack of a central plan, however, is precisely what gives capitalism its moral strength. By giving humans freedom to choose how they spend their lives, capital­ism allows them the potential to fully develop their skills and talents. The lack of a master plan for society allows humans to achieve through liberty a level of dignity impossible under any known socialist order. 
Capitalism is not without problems, and our society is far from utopian. We should learn from Eastern Europe, however, that socialism is not an answer but a problem. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Tuesday's Staff: 

Sports  News  Ad Design  
Molly Mahoney Christine Walsh  Mindy Breen  
Janice O'leary  Anita Covelli  

Production  Ryan Roberts  
Karen Newlove Accent  Mary Sain  
Cheever Griffin Colleen Cronin  Sheila Jones  

Stephanie Snyde Viewpoint Alison Cocks 
SystemsMolly Schwartz Fritz ValsaintKim Skiles Gilbert Gomez 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 
Tuesday, November 14, 1989
The Observer 

WEATHER  
Lines show high temperatures.  
Yesterday's high: 72  
Yesterday's low: 40  
Nation's high: <xl  
(McAilen,TX)  
Nation's low: 9  
(Gunnison,CO) 
6  
Forecast:  
Mostly cloudy and  
cooler today with a 50  
percent chance of  
thundershowers. llighs  
near 60. Cloudy and  
mild tonight with a 70  
percent chance of  
thunderstorms. Lows  
in the 50s. Mostly  
cloudy, windy and  
much cooler Wednes­ 
day. Highs in the 50s  
early, dropping to the  
lower 40s by evening.  

Pressure
®© 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
WORLD 

More than 200 Japanese miniature art objects valued at $300,000 were stolen before dawn Monday from the Japanese Art Museum in Haifa, Jerusalem.There is a $5,000 reward for information leading to recovery of stolen objects. The thieves ap­parently entered through an opening that was left un­locked. 
China has plans for major crackdowns on prostitution and "other repulsive deeds," China's top security official said Monday. The program will punish all who copy or sell pornography; engage in prostitu­tion; produce, sell or use drugs; gamble, or conduct superstitious activities for a profit. 
NATIONAL 

A murder suspect being driven on a busy high­way to a city jail in Queens, N.Y., Monday pulled out a gun and fired from the back seat at two detectives, killing them both. The convict, identified as Stoney Harrison, ran from the scene. 
Singer Michael Jackson spen~ a_n evening at the circus with a 4-year-old leukemm victim whose fa­ther earlier triggered a court-ordered manhunt when 
The vice president told the gov­ernors that the 1980s were a Republi­can decade because the party delivered on the central issues of peace and op­portunity. He said he was not going to second guess the GOP defeats in off­year elections. He said Republicans can broaden the~ constituency and build "a governing conservatism" in the 1990s. "The Democrats haven't had a new idea for 
The Soviet legislature, as part of President Mikhail Gorbachev's drive to create a law-based soci­ety, approved a plan to restructure the court system that includes a provision for trial by jury in cases where the defendants are accused of crimes that carry 15 years' imprisonment or the death penalty. Currently, judges decide cases without juries. 
More than a million gallons of water flooded into a coal mine in eastern India on Monday. trapping at least 73 miners. The miners were safe but their sur­vival depended on the availability of oxygen. Six pumps were set up to flush out the water, which might take at least two days. 
he spirited the child away from chemotherapy treat­ment. Darian Pagan spent Saturday evening in Calif. with Jackson, courtesy of a Long Island-based charity. 
An evenly divided Supreme Court decided on the partial merger of Detroit's two daily newspapers. Under a 100-year agreement, the Detroit newspapers will combine their business, advertising and production departments, but maintain separate editorial staffs. 
INDIANA 

A covered bridge owned by a 38-year-old man in Shelbyville, Ind., is up for sale. Tracy Porter has de­cided it would be too difficult and dangerous to move the bridge to his farm. The 1 04-year-old structun~ n~p­resents a piece of Shelby County history. 
30 years," Quayle said. 
OF INTEREST 

CILA Dinner "Rap Session" Prof. Robert Ladrech of Saint Mary's government department will discuss the European Green political move­ment and its potential in the U.S. at 5 p.m. in the faculty room of South Dining Hall. 
MBA Consortium: Alex Duke will discuss fellowship opportunities for Black, Hispanic and Native American students. The event wilL be held at 7 p.m., today in the Dooley Room of Lafortune. Sponsored by the League of Black Business Stu­dents. 
Science Placement Night will be held to­day at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Audito­rium. Representatives from Allstate's actuarial department, Amoco Research Company, and Vista Chemical company will discuss career opportuni­ties. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
MARKET UPDATE 
Closings for November 13 1989 

Volume in shares 
170.64 Million 
NYSE Index  
188.22  '\10.32  
S&P Composite  
339.55  '\Jo.45  

Dow Jones Industrials 
2,626.43 '\)0.82 
Precious Metals Gold '\] $4.10 to $392.70 I oz. Silver '\] 5.8rt to $5.318 I oz. 
Source: AP 
ALMANAC 

On November 14: e In 1832: The first streetcar -a horse-drawn vehicle called the "John Mason" ~ made its debut in New York City. eln 1881: Charles Guiteau went on trial for the assassina­tion of President Garfield. Gui­teau was convicted and hanged the following year. e In 1940: During World War II, German planes destroyed most of the English town of Coventry. e In 1972: On Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed above the 1,000-point mark for the first time, ending the day at 1,003.16. 
'Pro-family' activist opposed E.R.A. .south Africa: 
By JOHN O'BRIEN 
News Writer 
Syndicated news columnist and conservative radio com­mentator Phyllis Schlafly said that reports of the death of the American family are exagger­ated, in a press conference Monday. 
"We ought to look at how we can enhance and respect and increase the ability of the family to take care of its young, its old and continue to provide a nest Phyllis Schlafly from which people can face came along in the 1970s it was life's challenges," said Schlafly. proclaimed as something that 
Schlafly, best known for would liberate women, presum­leading the effort to defeat the ably from home, husband, fam-Equal Rights Amendment, was ily and children." at Notre Dame to deliver a lee-She cited as evidence of di­ture Monday as part of SUB's vorce's negative effect on Family Issues Week, entitled: women a Stanford University "How the Family is Changing: a report that showed divorce Conservative Viewpoint." Jowers a woman's standard of 
A "pro-family" activist, Jiving by 73 percent while the Schlally said the Women's Lib-husband's goes up by 42 per­eration movement proclaimed cent. many new ideas to young Schlafly said that the way to women, of which the "biggest get out of poverty is to "get sin le factor is divorce. When it married and stay marriP-d." She 
said it was nearly impossiblefor a woman to raise herself out of poverty and raise her children at the same time. She advised college women who want to have a family to choose a career that will be compatible with raising a fam­ily. She said "medicine is in­compatible for a woman who wants a career and family" but that nursing, teaching and writing, because of their sched­ules, are careers that won't in­terfere with the raising of a family. Schlafly said that career and family could be mixed but that it depends on the choice of ca­reer and the time in a woman's life. "I think it works best if you raise your children and then go into your career," she said. "I spent 25 years with zero incom~ raising my six children and now I can come out and speak to the Notre Dame students and do other exciting things." She said there are other ways for women to have both career and family but that women 
shouldn't expect the govern­ment to subsidize the care of their children. "You can devise your life any way you want to, just don't ask me to pay for it." 
Schlafly refuted a reporter's claim that there is a growing pro-abortion sentiment in America. "It is clear that the media are very pro-abortion. They are as outrageous about this as the way they attacked Dan Quayle last year and I think it is going to boomerang on them," said Schlafly. 
She added that the abortion issue did not play a major part in the election of Douglas Wilder as governor of Virginia as many media analysts had said. She said, "From the in­formation I got from exit polls, of those voters who voted based on the issue of abortion, the election was a wash-half for and half against." 
Schlafly said that the issue of ERA has no chance of resurfac­ing. "It's dead. The American people don't want a gender­neutral society." she said. 
Problems with DART assessed by senate 
By SANDRA WIEGAND 
News Writer 
A resolution requesting ad­ministrative intervention re­garding the present shortage of faculty. large class sizes, and increasing number of "closed" classes at Notre Dame was passed unanimously at the Stu­dent Senate meeting last night. 
The resolution outlined these three problems, and asked that "appropriate members of the administration, the Academic Council. the Faculty Senate, and the Campus Life Council" ad­dress these issues. 
It was recommended in the resolution that the Office of the Provost "contact student and faculty leaders in regard to this issue, in the near future." 
"The problem is money," said Ken Scheve, academic commis­sioner of the Student Senate. 
The addition of an arbitrary 100 faculty members would change the entire tuition struc­ture, Scheve said, but added that there might be other, as of yet undiscovered solutions to the problem. 
"I would like to see the budget committee put some effort into this." he said. 
Dean of the College of Arts and Letters Michael Loux has appointed a committee to ana­lyze the quality of education at Notre Dame, Scheve said. The committee consists of eight faculty and two student mem­bers, including Scheve. 
"This committee is looking for different ways to improve the situation." Scheve said. 
Senate member Lisa Bost­wick, who drew up the resolu­tion, said that the DART system 
is not the sole cause of the stu­dents' inability to get the classes they want. 
"The problems are fundamen­tal to the system," she said. 
Some senate members men­tioned that the DART system, as a lottery, does put the stu­dents who have early registra­tion dates at a great advantage over other students. 
Also passed unanimously at the senate meeting was a reso­
lution to  "recognize and sup­ 
port"  a  Notre  Dame/Saint  
see SENATE I page 4  

Dartmouth Will diSInvest 
HANOVER, N.H. (AP) ­Dartmouth College will sell off $11.5 million worth of invest­ments in companies doing busi­ness in South Africa by the end of the year, the Board of Trustees announced Monday. 
The Ivy League school, which has been a hot spot in the de­bate in this country over South Africa's apartheid policies, will also refrain from such invest­ments in the future, the board said in a statement. 
The investments have "great symbolic meaning," and dis­putes over them undermine Dartmouth's ability to achieve some educational goals, the board said. 
"The trustees recognize that many firms continuing to do business in South Africa are making positive contributions to the lives of their employees and the political process in South Africa," the statement s~d. · 
The board said it made the decision to divest Saturday after discussing the adverse impact of "these nominal in­vestments." 
Dartmouth's investments in companies doing business in South Africa have declined from $63 million, or 15 percent of its endowment, to $11.5 mil­lion, or less than 2 percent, the board said. 
By law and custom, South Africa's apartheid policy estab­lishes a racially segregated so­ciety in which the 28 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. 
Caltlpus Ministry and You 

~PUS
------------------------MINISW­
WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 
They were both seniors. They had dated for almost two years. Graduation was looming in their future. They both were interviewing for jobs. They felt that this relationship was special; they were serious about each other. But they just weren't sure what the next step was. Should they look for jobs in the same city or should they test the relationship with some distance? Should they get engaged now or should they work for a year or two first and establish some career goals? 
They came into the Campus Ministry Office hoping for some information. Perhaps we had a compatibility test they might take to see if they were truly meant for each other. Did we have any articles they might read? Did we have any advice on what they should do? 
This was a new twist. Though we had offered programs for engaged couples for many years, we had not really thought about this category of couple; what should we call them? "Serious but not yet committed?" "Pre­engaged?" We were greatly impressed that a couple would so seriously question their future as to come to our office for advice. Yet a program for the engaged would not be appropriate for this couple. They were still exploring their relationship-the decision was not yet made; and the decision might eventually be to not continue the relationship. What could we do for couples like these? 
After much discussion with rectors, R.A.s, counseling center personnel and some couples in serious relationships we focused on some of the issues and questions facing couples in significant relationships: 
•How 
can we determine if we're really ready for marriage? 

•Should 
we try to find jobs, or pick graduate schools, that are in the same city? 

•How 
will a long distance relationship affect us? 

•How 
can you express your true feelings without pressuring for commitment? 

•How 
will the demands of career/graduate school affect our relationship? 

•How 
might differences in our families of origin affect our relationship? ·How can we communicate better? 


After identifying the issues we put together a program and called it "What's the Future of this Relationship?" It includes some presentations on the stages of relationships and decision-making. While we were able to avoid "compatibility tests,· we did include a marriage expectations quiz. There is time for answering questions, and a lot of time for discussing answers with the partner. There is a discussion period for questions. There is a folder of articles for additional information and reflection. 
Some comments from participants attending the 
program last spring: "Very good program! The questions made us think now and will give us a lotto discuss later on." 
"I really enjoyed the thorough questioning and reflection. I learned so much about my partner and myself." 
"It was a great afternoon to stop and think about my relationship. Very helpful!" 
"The most helpful thing was the opportunity to discuss the material presented, which facilitated discussion about many things we hadn't previously discussed." 
What most couples seemed to enjoy about the program was the time and the opportunity to discuss their relationship, especially areas or topics they hadn't considered before. 
If you are in a significant relationship and are asking the kinds of questions listed above perhaps you'd like to attend the program this semester. (The program will be offered second semester, also.) 
"What's the Future of this Relationship?" will take place December 2, 12:30 -5 p.m. Pre­registration Is required. Registration papers can be obtained In both Campus Ministry Offices (Library Concourse and Badin Hall). Registration deadline Ia November 28. The program Is limited to 25 couples. There Is no coat for the program. If you have any questions, please call Tracey Sandman or Carol Guenther. 

·-----------------------.. 
Upcoming Events 
Tuesday, November 14 
"Ordaining Women in the Catholic Church", Rev. David Burrell, C.S.C., John H. Robinson. 7:30pm, Hesburgh Auditorium .. 
Thursday, November 16 
PALANCA are due in the Campus Ministry Library Office. 
Friday, November 17­
Sunday, November 19 
Notre Dame Encounter with Christ-Fatima Retreat House. 
Saturday, November 18 
Eucharist, 5:00pm at Stepan Center. Rev. Oliver Williams, 
C.S.C. presider. Notre Dame Women's Choir. 
Sunday, November 19 
Eucharist, 10:00am at Stepan Center. Rev. David Burrell, 
C.S.C. presider. Notre Dame Liturgical Choir, Liturgical Brass. 
Eucharist, 11 :45am at Stepan Center. Rev. Daniel Jenky, 
C.S.C. presider. Notre Dame Folk Choir. 
Meeting of Orthodox Christian Students, 8pm Badin Hall Campus Ministry Conference Room. 
Brought to you weekly by the Office of Campus Ministry and Th9 Observer 
page 4 

Decreased teaching load 
More money for recruiting 
Limited committee work 
Spousal Hiring 
Women's Center 
Increased Salaries 
Child-care (on-campus 
facilities) 
Child-bearing/parental leave policy ·26 Survey forms returned 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 
SOURCE: Faculty Senate Commiltee on the Stalus of Women The Observer I Laura Slanton 
Women 
continued from page 1 
maternity plan for female fac­ulty that allows four weeks compensated leave, with a pro­vision for medical leave, if nee-
Monk 
continued from page 1 
chairman of the board of William Moss Corporation. It's members include former Dallas Cowboy head coach Tom Landry, gospel singer Sandy Patti, Hobert Wright, president and chief executive officer of NBC, and noted physician Jonas Salk, as well as other promi­nent businessmen, educators and public officials from across the United States. 
Malloy said that he is pleased 
to be part of a "very interesting 
and qualified people who are 
addressing the drug problem." 
Members of the group met with Hush on Monday to wit­ness the signing of the executive order which brought the council into existence and also was briefed by Drug Czar Bennett and his top officials. 
"We then met informally to introduce ourselves and our backgrounds," said Malloy. "We can't meet formally until 
Extinct 
continued from page 1 
possibly be used as weapons. 
"To get the fragile nose bones 
out of the way. a Trienratops 
would hav1~ had to lower its 
head so far that it would have 
targeted the ground," Higby 
said. 
Higby b1dinves hn has found 
thermoregulatory structures in 
four of the live latest surviving 
dinosaur groups. In addition, 
dinosaur bones and tenth were 
found in layers younger than 
those containing the remains of 
"asteroid impaet." This would 
east doubt on the theory that a 
eomet or meteorite struek the 
earth. causing mass exline­
lions. 
!lis work's reeeption has Pn­eouraged Higby. "This would upset a realiy big earl of ap­ples." Higby said. "All the di­nosaur pieture books showing Triceratops eharging Tyra­nosaurus Hex, using his horns like can openers, would go right out the window." 
essary. 
Another issue is parenting and the tenure clock. Biddick said that some universities al­low a woman to "stop the tenure clock" while she takes time off to have a child. She ex­plained that a women could have a baby and not worry 
our charter is approved by var­ious government agenc ies." 
The White House spokesman said that the Council probably won't meet until after January 1, 1990. "The next step is for them to meet and determine which specific direction they will take in their efforts," he said. 
Monday's appointme nt marks the second time since August that Malloy has been named to a task force on drugs. On Au­gust 24, Malloy was named to the steering committee of the Governor's Committee for a Drug Free Indiana by Indiana Governor Evan Bayh. 
Malloy said that the objectives of both commissions are simi­lar and that he hopes to "serve as a conduit between the na­tiona! and state committees." 
Bayh's committee has already met three times according to Malloy and is planning an open forum for December 7. in Indi­anapolis. 
The Associated Press con­tributed to this story. 
Four years ago Rigby began work on his theory in Montana, where he eontinues to lead summer research teams. Higby's findings were published in June's Earth Watch Magazine. Responses are ex­peeted in the upcoming issue of Scienee News. 
I r--FREE -SCHO~~:ciN~~~M::~ FORl I MONEY FOR COU.EGE 1
i 
Every Student is Eligible for Some Type of Financial Aid Regardless of Grades or Parental Income. 
o 
We have a data bank of over 200,000 listings of scholarships, fellowships, grants, and loans, representing over $10 billion In private sector funding. 

o 
Many scholarships are given to students based on their academic Interests, career plans, family heritage and place of residence. 

o 
There's money available lor students who have been newspaper car· rlers, grocery clerks, cheerleaders, non·smokers ... etc. 

o 
Results GUARANTEED. 



I 
CALL For A Free Brochure ·­
IANYTIME (800) 346-6401 -=J 
L---------------·------------------------------~ 
The Observer 

about the negative effect it might have on the tenure pro­cess. 
"I would like us (the Notre Dame administration) to con­sider for mothers the option of stopping the tenure clock," said Kolman. In some departments the maternity leave is handled case by case. "This sounds all right theoretically, but I've heard women say that they feel that it (the granting of leave) is not done even-handedly ... per­haps the policy is too vague ... there ought to be some way to be more consistent." 
"I believe that the parental leave policy is a problem that has to be addressed and is be­ing addressed," said O'Meara. 
The issue of spousal hiring is also important to married cou­ples who teach, said Biddick. 
"When a married woman comes to Notre Dame there should be serious efforts to get her husband a job in the area," said Biddick. 
O'Meara said that to some extent the University does have some spousal hiring strategies. 
"If the spouse is a philosophy professor, we know where to look," he said. But if the spouse is not in an academic field it is more difficult to provide job assistance, he said. 
"We might make a call or two; we could do significantly more networking," O'Meara said. 
A spousal hiring program is not as easy to implement in South Bend as it is in a larger city like Chicago, said Kolman. "It is very complex when the 
Dart .courses closed on Nov. 13 

0021  0398  2580  0989  
0023 0024 0025 0027 0028 0029 0032 0037 0051 0055 0056 0057 0083 0084 0091 0092 0100 5164 5163 5162 5161 0129 5160 0131 5158 5157 0144 0156 0166 0170 5149 5146 5145 5143 5146 .0229 0233 5284 5282  0399 0401 0402 0464 0465 0472 0518 0572 5035 5040 5039 5038 5036 0619 0741 0749 0752 0766 0805 5048 5045 1826 1834 2016 5556 2370 2375 2377 2486 2488 2491 2492 2494 2496 5337 5341 5340 5351  2581 2585 2589 2604 2669 2790 2797 2799 2801 5411 5410 5407 2810 5427 5549 2117 2118 5144 5226 5311 5314 5313 3145 3148 3161 3163 3219 5105 5104 5106 5107 5112 3257 3261 3263 3264 3268 3269 3273  0990 0999 5328 5326 5007 1072 1077 1083 1085 1086 1087 1089 1090 1100 5375 5505 5503 5502 5499 5474 5475 1248 1249 1254 1257 1264 1270 1276 1284 1293 1296 1297 5477 5483 5482 5480 5488 5487 5492  1373 1375 1378 1384 1386 1389 1395 1397 5235 1481 1508 1512 5176 5171 5298 5309 5308 5307 5305 5304 5303 5302 5299 5301 1587 1619 5017 1621 1624 5015 5014 5011 5010 5009 5008 5253 1822 S165  
0380  5349  3274  5491  
0389  2568  3310  5490  
0397  2579  5489  

Tuesday, November 14, 1989 
other person is an academic," she said. 
It is difficult, said Kolman, because one would like to sup­port spousal hiring without im­posing upon the independenee of the department's hiring pro­cess. 
In regards to day care, the Notre Dame community presently has access to the Early Childhood Development Center (ECDC). An appendix to the report by the Status of Women Committee states: "Beginning with the academic year 1986-87 and continuing to the present, Notre Dame no longer provides any direct sub­sidy of ECDC, the only pre­sehooVday care program on ei­ther campus." 
According to the Status of Women report, the ECDC serves 151 children and is at maxi­mum capacity. "The issue of on-site child care and the Uni­versity's role in supporting it deserves continued attention," states the report. 
"How your children are taken care of while you're working is an important issue for par­ents," said Kolman. "How the University ought to play into this is not really clear." 
The ECDC has a fine reputa­tion, said Kolman, but it does not accommodate as many ehil­dren as need care. 
Regarding the specific rec­ommendations made in the Sta­tus of Women Committee's re­port, O'Meara said he is sup­portive of the idea of a women's advocate, but said that one would only be ap-
Senate 
continued from page 3 
Mary's committee "to analyze relations between the two eam­puses ... to synthesize concrete plans of action for the better­ment of relations ... and to eval­uate the success of the pro­grams." 
The resolution stated that the progress of the committee would be reviewed by March 5, 1990. 
The senate also evaluated the problem of overcrowding that arises during final examination week, when many South Quad residents go to dinner at North Dining Hall because of its proximity to the library. 
Some suggestions to accom­modate the extra flow of stu­dents were made by Food Ser­pointed through the "normal academic channels." 

"It is important at this time in the history of Notw Dame to have someone who is eoncerned with women's affairs and ean be an advocate for women's coneerns," Kolman said. 
In addition, she said, "!\1y sense is that we're going to have a eommittee (on the status of women) in the future." 
Hegarding wmmm's compen­sation, O'Meara said that it is comparable to that of men in the same department and at the same rank. lin said his office eonsta~tly ke.eps an eye on women s salanns. 
A guide to gnndnr-inclusive language is something that Biddick would like to sn1~ in the faculty handbook. F. Ellen Weaver, associate proft~ssional specialist, assistant chair of theology, eo-chair of the Status of Women Committee, said that the theology department passed a resolution in 1983 to use gcnder-inclusive language. 
1

Weaver said that sexual ha­rassment is a problem on this campus. 
Kolman said that sexual ha­rassment eomplaints are filed in her office. "There are some attitudes that some men have towards women that don't help the learning environment," she said. 
Weaver said that she is ex­cited that University President Father Edward Malloy has de­dared the sehool year 1990-91, the Year of the Woman. 
vice employees and llall Council members, said senate memb1~r Sigi Loya. Included in the sug­gestions were tho extension of dining hours, the addition of staff, and a menu during exam­ination week that does not en­courage sit-down meals. 
Another idea was to put signs in the library reminding stu­dents that a live-minute walk to South Dining llall eould prevent a 45-minute wait for dinner. 
Food Serviee hall representa­tives will begin discussing the issue in early December, Loya said. 
Loya is also meeting with post office employee Mike Walsh on Wednesday to discuss ways to facilitate better postal service. Walsh said that plans are being made to put a federal mailbox in LaFortune Student Center, Loya said. 
When the Great 
American Dream isn't Great Enough 
Have you considered? 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR 
A one-year program located at Moreau Seminary at Notre Dame for college graduates who are seriously interested in exploring a vocation as a Holy Cross priest or brother. 
For iaformation: 
Fr. John Conley, CSC Vocation Director Box 541 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
ADWORKS
239·6385 
Tuesday, November 14, 1989 The Observer pageS 

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -The  purchase price and the value of  suming, of course, the public  
state of Indiana will start a  the bond.  reaction is positive," he said.  
program next year to promote  Normally, a bond purchaser  Bayh said he hopes the pro­ 
tax-exempt bonds as a way  would put up the entire amount  gram, similar to one already in  
parents can save money for  when buying the bond and then  place in Illinois, will be attrac­ 
their children's college educa­ get regular interest payments.  tive to middle-income families  
tion. officials said Monday.  Although intended to help  who might be intimidated by  
Gov. Evan Bayh said the state  middle-income parents pay for  the high up-front investment in  
hopes to sell its first Indiana  their children's college, there  some other savings plans.  
College Savings Bonds in Jan­ will be no restrictions on who  The governor said an­ 
uary as part of a larger issue  can buy the bonds or on the use  nouncement of the program,  
of tax-exempt bonds to be sold  of the money when the new  which requires no legislative  
by the State Office Building  bond matures. The proceeds  approval, doesn't mean that the  
Commission. which is financing  could be used for tuition at  state's Baccalaureate Educa­ 
expansion of the Statehouse  public or private colleges. in or  tion System Trust, or BEST,  
complex in Indianapolis.  outside Indiana, or for any  program has been scrapped.  
"We in Indiana need to do a  non-college expense.  That program, enacted in  
better job of encouraging our  Bayh said he expects about  1987, was designed to guaran­ 
citizens to save for their own  $20 million to $30 million of  tee tuition for children of par­ 
and their children's education,"  the January bond issue to be  ents who paid into an invest­ 
said Bayh. a first-term Demo­ set aside for investors in the  ment fund over several years.  
crat.  college bond, which will be  However, the program has  
marketed through banks and  never taken any investments  
The $5,000 bonds would pay  brokerage firms.  and is currently being re-evalu­ 
interest of 6.5 to 7.5 percent.  He estimated that 4,000  ated by a board appointed by  
exempt from federal and state  Hoosiers could be helped by the  Bayh.  
taxes. The bonds would be  first issue and as many as  Bayh said a market survey is  
available at an initial cost of  12,000 through a series of  planned to see who would par­ 
$1,200 to $2,600 depending on  bond issues planned for various  ticipate in BEST. Information  
the maturity of the bond. The  state projects during 1990.  from Michigan, which has a  
interest earned over the 10-to  "We'd like to see this become  similar program. indicates that  
20-year maturity would make  a permanent part of the financ­ upper-income families use the  
up the difference between the  ing of state government, as- program most frequently.  

RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS 

CASH IN ON GOOD GRADES. 
If you're a freshman or sophomore with 
good grades, apply now for a three-year or 
two-year scholarship. From Army ROTC. 
Army ROTC scholarships pay tuition, most books and fees, plus $100 per school month. They also pay off with leadership experience and officer credentials impressive to future employers. 
~ ~ 
ARMY ROTC 

THE SMARTEST C:OWGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
Contact Major Weiss 239-6264 
Panel disc~sses pros, cons of divestment 
ByLIZHOLlZ threat of sanctions are held News Writer over white heads that they ne­gotiate with the black people of Grace Hall hosted a panel 
South Africa." discussion on apartheid in Williams considers it crucial 
South Africa, Monday. 
that the blacks of South Africa The panel consisted of John be consulted on any decision Paul. Gary Sugarman, Oliver 
because they need to speakWilliams, Peter Walsh, Anand with one united voice. A keyPillay and Michael Travis. The 
point of reference for members of the panel agreed 
Williams's decision-making has upon the need for a change in 
been the guidance offered bySouth Africa. but they dis­
the Catholic bishops of South agreed on how it should be 
Africa. 
done. 
According to the Catholic Sugarman takes a three­
Bishops of South Africa, "At prong attack of divestment, the moment, we can see no jus­strong sanctions and the rein­
tification for the sort of pres­
vestment in black South Africa. 
sure that would leave a liber­
He stressed the reinvestment in ated South Africa in an eco­
black areas and townships by nomically non-viable situation." 
corporations. He says that im­According to Pillay. a non-ra­
plementing divestment alone cially segregated South Africa 
results in unemployment of 
can be achieved through mili­
blacks. 
tary action and economic sanc­
Travis agreed and said, tions. The purpose of these 
"Once businesses divest from sanctions would be to hurt the 
South Africa, they will never government and gain freedom 
come back. We should use for black people. 
trade credit instead of 
Paul says that divestment 
divestment and with this policy alone is not the solution. The 
we could shut down South key, according to Paul, is the Africa within one week." 
refusal to import South African 
Walsh emphasized that 
goods by other countries. 
apartheid has been a long and brutal struggle for the blacks 
As an introduction to the is­of South Africa. Internal pres­sues in South Africa, a film sure, black protests and eco­
about the history and the con­nomic sanctions are the keys to tinual struggle of the black negotiation with the white gov­
people in that country was ernment. "It is only when the shown prior to the discussion. 
Vatican conference 'assails' condom use to prevent AIDS 
vATICAN CITY (AP) -Cardi­he said, citing homosexual ac­
nal John O'Connor of New York tivity. on Monday opened the first William Blattner, chief of the Vatican conference on AIDS by viral epidemiological section at assailing the use of condoms the National Cancer Institute, and the distribution of syringes agreed that advocating con­to addicts as a means of stop­doms "promotes risk behavior, ping the spread of the disease. as does the distribution of sy­
He also urged that AIDS vic­ringes for drug addicts." tims not be treated as outcasts, Ori Thursday in Baltimore. perceived only as public health the U.S. bishops' conference hazards and left to die. dropped earlier conditional 
"The truth is not in condoms support for condom education or clean needles," O'Connor in schools and urged that AIDS said. "These are lies, lies perpe­prevention instead emphasize trated often for political rea­chastity. sons on the part of public offi­During Monday's session at cials . . . by some health care the Vatican, a man briefly in­professionals who believe they terrupted the proceedings when have nothing else to offer per­he approached the podium sons with AIDS or at risk ... lies wearing a sandwich board with told by often well-meaning the slogan "The church has counselors." AIDS." The man, identified by 
O'Connor was the first the ANSA news agency as a speaker at the three-day con­U.S. priest, was led out of the ference bringing together more hall by security guards. than 1,000 delegates from 85 countries, including church of­O'Connor said doctors have ficials, scientists, theologians an obligation to discourage the and health care workers. lifestyles that can cause AIDS, 
Robert Gallo, director of the pointing out that an estimated Laboratory of Tumor Cell Biol­72 percent of AIDS victims in ogy of the National Cancer In­the United States contracted stitute in Bethesda, Md.. said he the disease from homosexual believes an anti-AIDS vaccine acts and 17 percent from drug could be available for some pa­use. tients by 1991 or 1992. The Roman Catholic Church 
"And we hope and believe condemns homosexual acts. but that sooner than is often be­not homosexuals themselves, as lieved by some scientific circles immoral. . . the problem will be solved," "Sometimes I believe the he said. greatest damage done to per­
The use of condoms in fight­sons with AIDS is done by the ing AIDS has been a delicate is­dishonesty of those health care sue for the Roman Catholic professionals who refuse to Church, which opposes all confront the moral dimensions forms of artificial birth control of sexual aberrations or drug and condemns homosexual ac­abuse," O'Connor said. tivity. "Good morality is good 
Monsignor Carlo Caffarra, an medicine," he added. adviser on sexual issues to the Caffarra said married cou­pope, said condom campaigns ples should choose abstinence if further expose society to AIDS one of the spouses becomes in­because "the means of protec­fected with AIDS. He also said tion are far from reliable." doctors have "the duty" to ad­
"In addition, their use en­vise one spouse if the other courages individuals to con­spouse has AIDS. with or with­tinue their high-risk behavior," out the partner's permission. 
--~-------------------~ 
Tuesday, November 14, 1989
page 6 The Observer 
East Germany elects Modrow to top post 
BEHLIN (APl -East Ger­promise of free elections and 
many's Parliament elected a questionHd thH commitment of 
leading reformer as the new the nHw leadership. 
premier Monday night, but "The question is, are you (the 
hundrPds of thousands of new government) really differ­
protesters took to the streets ent from the others?" one 
of Leipzig to say Communist re­speaker said at the rally. 
forms are moving too slowly. 
After a historic weekend in At the session to approve 
which millions of East Germans Modrow, the first secret ballot­
took advantage of their new ing in the Communist-domi­
frnP<lom to travel west, Parlia­nated Parliament elected a new 
ment also picked a non-Com­speaker, Guenther Maleuda, 
munist speaker in the cham­who told the assembly it was 
ber's first secret ballot and duty-bound to heed the calls of 
urged accelerated changes. the reform movement. 
And the government said it Maleuda, 58, is the chairman 
was dismantling internal barri­of the Democratic Peasants 
ers that for thre11 d11cades party, one of the four small 
f'orm1~d a notorious "death parties allied with the ruling 
strip" betw11nn the Berlin Wall Communists. The Communist 
and th11 city's sealed-off eastern Party did not propose a candi­
sector. date for the post. 
Deputies appealed for truly In addition to the parliamen­
free elections, a coalition gov­tary session, the party's 163­
ernment and removal from the member Central Committee set 
'constitution of language Dee. 15 for an emergeney party 
dedaring their nation a social­eongress that will elect a new 
ist state. leadership and rewrite its polit­
The parliament, known as the ieal platform. 
People's Chamber, then ap­The party, which has had a 
proved the Communist Party's monopoly on power in the 40 
nomination of Politburo mem­years since East Germany was 
ber llans Modrow to lead a new created, is struggling to meet 
government as premier. The the pent-up demands of 16.5 
government traditionally has million citizens who have 
been subservient to the party. watched their Communist 
Modrow is a well-known re­neighbors restore democracy 
former within the party, which while they were denied the same 
has been led by Egon Krenz freedoms. 
since Oct. 18. Krenz has WASHINGTON (AP)-Presi­martial law crackdown against compromise on a plan to give
promised some reforms, includ­Modrow is an anti-establish­dent Bush bestowed the presi­the first free trade union in the $657 million in aid to Poland ing free elections. ment Communist who enjoys dential Medal of Freedom on Soviet Bloc and its rise to and $65 million to Hungary,
As deputies argued into the broad popular support. He was an emotional long battle the
Lech Walesa in power this year. ending a over night in East Berlin, pro­nominated to replace Willi White House ceremony Monday "History may make men, but proper scale of aid to those democracy activists in Leipzig Stoph, who resigned last week and promised "American aid Lech Walesa has made his­countries. 
pressed for continued change along with his entire 44-mem­has begun and more is coming" tory," Bush said. Walesa's trip to the White 
to prolong the spirit of hope ber cabinet. House the first stop on a
to Poland. was 
sweeping the nation after the About 100,000 more East tour that will include a
As the president spoke of the U.S. 
festival of freedom over the Germans crossed into West "Lech Walesa showed how erackdown and Walesa's 11 speech to Congress, a privati~weekHnd. West GHrman televi­Berlin and West Germany on one individual eould inspire in months incarceration, Walesa's dinner at the White !louse and sion estimatHd the number of Monday, but the arrivals were a others a faith so powerful that eyes filled with tears. attendance at the annual con­
protesters at between 200,000 trickle compared with the wave of the tlw
it vindicated itself. and changed The Polish trade union leader vention AFL-CIO,and 300,000. of 3 million visitors that went the course of a nation," Bush arrived in Washington as the American trade union federa­
The protesters urged the gov­west over the weekend after said, referring to the 1981 Senate reached a bipartisan tion. ernment to live up to its travel restrictions were lifted. 
Boston cops allowed How're you going to do it? random drug testing 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -The Jonas Salk and former Attorney 
Supreme Court on Monday General William Smith, as 
permitted random drug testing advisers in the war on drugs. 
for Boston police, offering new With drug policy director 
evidence the justices condone William Bennett at this side, 
widespread testing of govern­Bush urged the advisory panel 
ment employees in jobs affect­to encourage private employers 
ing public safety. to keep workplaces drug-free 
The court, without comment, and to coordinate anti-drug ef­let stand a ruling that forcing forts. police officers to undergo the The high court last Mareh 
random tests -even when upheld drug and alcohol testing 
there is no reason to suspect for railroad workers involved 
drug abuse -does not violate in accidents and for U.S. Cus­their privacy rights. toms Service agents who apply A Boston police union official for drug-enforcement posts or 
panned the action. jobs requiring that a gun be 
''I'm disappointed in the fact carried. that the Supreme Court has Weeks later, the justices si­said that police officers in this lently let stand a ruling that al­
You don't have to be the valedictorian to know college is
city and in this country have lowed administering random 
no picnic. But the IBM Personal System/2® can be a big help. 
different constitutional rights drug tests within the Washing­
It lets you get more done in less time. You can organize your 
than other citizens," said ton Township, N.J., police de­
notes, write and revise papers, and create smart-looking 
partment.
Hobert Guiney, president of the graphics to make a good report even better. All in all. thl' Boston Police Patrolmen's As­The court never has ruled IBM PS/2® can make your school life a lot easier. And 
sociation. definitively in a case involving 
after school, it can give you a head start on your 
The court's action came random drug-testing of gov­~ree~. Because theres a good chance you'll be work-.:!!!'!':f!£!;'~-g;~ within minutes of President ernment employees and its ap­mg with a PS/2 wherever you work after college. ~ Bush's naming 27 citizens, in­proval of such tactics is not a And right now, as a student you have an advantage. You can get thl' 
IBM PS/2 at a terrific low price. So save money and make a smart
eluding medical pioneer Dr. certainty. 
career decision at the same time. 
paid what you think you're Corning soon: 
worth," Schlafly said of the
Schlafly 
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY! 
idea of comparable worth,
continued from page 1 
which argues that occupations 
high ratio of men to women in should have a set value relative NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE careers to other jobs. "If you don't like Office of University Computing such as engineering, where 96 the job you are in, go find 
Computing Center and Math Building 
percent another job." are male. "That is the way the Schlafly also advised young 239-7477 § : =i'f~m American people want it," she women at Notre Dame to "look 
tiM, Personal System/2 and PS/2 are regiStered trademarks of International Bu&llleSs Mach!Ms COI'porahon ©IBM Corp 1989
said. around and see who's got the "You will probably never be kind of a life that you want." 




Rebel onslaught Students give aid to the hungry 
reaches third day 
245 killed in El Salvador 
SAN SALVADOH. El Salvador 29 more than the army included (AP) -Hebels held large parts in its official count. of several poor neighborhoods President Alfredo Cristiani Monday and battled soldiers in announced a state of siege and a third day of the worst fight­a 6 p.m.-6 a.m. curfew Sunday ing the capital has experienced and legislators were consider­
in a decade of civil war. ing more restrictions on civil 
At least 245 had been killed rights. A photographer who and 378 wounded since the tried to reach the legislature's rebels attacked Saturday night building Monday was turned 
in their biggest offensive since back by gunfire. 1981, according to the armed U.S. Embassy spokesman forces mortuary, civilian Barry Jacobs said an army morgues and hospitals, and counteroffensive had been unofficial military figures. slowed because soldiers were 
Thousands of civilians were ordered to avoid civilian casu­trapped in their homes by ex­alties. changes of gunfire between the The Bush administration said army and guerrillas of the left­Cristiani's government had not 
ist Farabundo National Libera­requested U.S. assistance in re­tion Front. Helicopter gun pelling the rebel attack. ships and military planes flew "It's our belief that they are over the city to attack rebel po­in control of the situation at sitions. this point," said White House 
Few of the city's 1 million press secretary Marlin Fitzwa­people were on the streets and ter. Asked whether he would nearly all downtown stores rule out U.S. involvement in the were closed. People went to the fighting, He said: "We can armed forces mortuary looking never predict the future, but at for missing relatives. this point it's not anticipated." 
Fighting also was reported Fifty-five U.S. military train­outside Usulutan, a major city ers are stationed in El Salvador in eastern El Salvador, but not but are not supposed to partic­in the city itself. ipate in military missions. 
The army press office Fitzwater said their status was stopped providing information unchanged. Monday and whether combat continued in the provinces was At the United Nations in New not clear. Telephone calls to York, Secretary-General Javier provincial cities did not go Perez de Cuellar said it was through. "essential that minimal condi­
No new official counts of tions be restored which will dead and wounded were given, permit talks to resume and the but the armed forces mortuary peace process to be put back on. had the bodies of 55 soldiers, track" in El Salvador. 

Passing the CPA Exam Open House 
• Half Price Course Drawing 
• Job Hunting Guide 
• Refreshments Served 
Wednesday, October 15 
6:00p.m. 

Sarin Room • LaFortune Center 
CONVISER OUFF\'t MILLER 
1-800-274-EXAM 
BY COLLEEN TRAVERS of hunger are agricultural the cause for each student who News Writer policies of Third World coun­
participates. Last year, Saint 
tries, wars, and food being 
Mary's was able to raise a total The issue of world hunger used as a political weapon. He of $3,900 which was divided was discussed by Oxfam Amer­firmly believes that "people between several local and na­
ica Executive Director John should be able to receive food tional agencies.
Hammock, Monday at Saint regardless of their political 
The fast will officially beginMary's College. preference." 
tomorrow evening with a prayer vigil held in the HeginaHammock spoke to a small Oxfam America is an interna­chapel. On Thursday, there will 
group of people in a lecture tional agency whose focus is to be a series of films and discus­entitled "Hunger: The Tragedy fund self-help development in 
sions dealing with the control­we choose." His talk focused on several poor nations through­lable forces which inflictthe reasons why hunger exists out the world. Hammock has hunger on humanity. A threeand the choices that can be held the position of Exective part presentation on how themade to avoid it. Director since 1984. He has media shapes our understand­
Hammock said that just 
been lecturing, teaching ing of social problems will be­
sending money to recent disas­courses, and writing extensively gin the day's events at 10:30 
ter areas is not enough. "The on international relations and a a.m.key is long term commitments ... variety of developmental issues It takes a commitment to radi­for many years. 
The programs are open to the
cal work at the grassroots 
The lecture was in conjunc­public, free of charge, and willlevel." 
tion with the sixteenth annual be held in the Stapleton Lounge 
He also stressed that Oxf~m "fast for a World Harvest" of LeMans hall. is not a relief agency and that " which will take place on Thurs­The sponsors of this year's 85 percent of (Oxfam's) money day, Nov. 16. events are the Saint Mary's 
goes into long term develop­World Hunger Coalition, Saint ment." The Marriot Corporation, Mary's Peacemakers, Saint According to Hammock, some Saint Mary's food service, will Mary's student government, of the reasons for the existence make a monetary donation to and Campus Ministry. 
Hoosier Holiday Millionaire raises booty 
INDIAI"l!APOUS (AP) -The 
~off' tickets have 
red offers a top prize of $1 mil· Hoosier . J:,otte:ry will offer a ··· .. typ~' and a lion. larger top instant prize and tis cap'' embl In the new game, the odds of 
better odds of winning when ~the odds·of w.. ing winning a lower level prize will 
the state's second game be­kind of prize will be 1 iti be better than in the first 
gins Nov. 21. lottery officials ; compared with 1 ill 7. 17 game. However, the odds of 
said Monday. inthtl lottery's first game. winning bigger instant prizes 
The "Hoosier Holiday Mil­Besides the top prize. the will he longer. lionaire'' will have a top in· , game. will also offer instant The odds of getting a $500 stant prize of $10,000, com­payoffs of free $1 tickets and ticket will be 1 in 10,000 in the pared with the $5,000 avail· 
$2 $5; $10, $20, a new $50 new game, compared with 1 in able in the current "Hoosier d $500. As in the first 7,692 in the firstgame. and MUlionair~/· the month-old ~ tiekijt witht~tee tele­the chances of getting the game for>which $60.985,000 symbols can be mailed $10,000 prize will he 1 in in tickets had been sold by last a chance for the pur. 160,428, compared with 1 in Friday. . to compete on the lot· 100,000 odds to claim the 
In the second game, whose ·~ tf.llevision show, which $5,000 prize in the first game. 

The Observer Tuesday, November 14, 1989
page 8 

• 
• 


Do you look like this the morning a paper is due? 
Flies from not showering 
jb~, 
Bedhead 
Faceless zombie expression
Mongo volcano­like pimple Lucky bowling shirt 
4 day old socks 
Solution 1: Don't worry about it, party the night before, and still look the same. 
Solution 2: Do it right with a Macintosh9 Computer! 
You too can own a Macintosh Computer. Apple makes it 
easy with its low iQterest Macintosh Financing Program 
for Higher Education.9 For more information, stop by the 
Notre Dame Computer Store, open Monday-Friday, 9­Sp.m., or at 239-7477. 
Also, TOMORROW, Wednesday, November 15, a new Mac SE computer will be given away at the Macintosh Computer Expo hosted from 7-lOp.m. at Theodores, locat­ed in the LaFortune Student Center. All students. faculty, and staff are eligible to win. Besides the Mac raffle, Mac­intosh software companies will be on hand to demonstate their latest software. SO BE THERE! 
Mac is What You Make It 
19H9 Apple Computc.:r, Inc. Apple:, the: Apple.: logo, and Macintosh arc: rc.:gistc.:rc.:d tradc.:marks of Apple: Computc.:r, Inc. 
Tuesday, November14, 1989 The Observer page 9 
Mayan civilization emerged earlier than once thought 

stone buildings, were con­structed during a period in which it was thought the most advanced form of construction was small villages," said Richard Hansen of the Univer­sity of California, Los Angeles. 
Hansen's research, an­nounced Monday by UCLA, "is a very significant discovery," said Arthur Demarest, anthropology Guatemala, pushed that date pottery pieces, sculptures, fig­
chairman at Vanderbilt Univer­back to 200 B.C. 
urines and other artifacts. sity in Tennessee. But Hansen's 50-member 
Archaeologists once believed team excavated the ancient city Dates can be determined byadvanced Mayan civilization of Nakbe, 350 miles from the radioactivity of carbon in emerged A.D. 300 and ended Guatemala City, and determined organic material associated 
A.D. 900 during what is de­that roughly 100 stone pyra­with buildings. Pottery is dated scribed as the "classic period." mids and other buildings dated by comparison with the style of Research conducted during to between 400 B.C. and 630 pottery from elsewhere in Cen­1978-83 at El Mirador, B.C. So did some of the 65 tral America. 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, November 14, 1989
page 10 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Reg•s Coccia  Rich Iannelli  
Exec. News Editor  Ma"hew Gallagher  Advertising Manager ..'  Molly Killen  
Viewpoint Editor  Dave Bruner  Ad Design Manager  Shannon Roach  
Sports Editor  Theresa Kelly  Production Manager  .Ahsort" Cocks  
Accent Editor  John Blas1  Systems Mgr  Bernard Brenn1nkmeyer  
Photo Editor  .... Enc Ba•ley  OTS Director  Angela Bellanca  
Saint Mary's Editor  .Christ1ne Gill  Controller  .Anne Lindner  

The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un•vers•· ty of Notre Dame duLac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the pol· ICies of the adm1n1strat•on of e1ther 1nst1tUt1on The news IS reported as accurately and ob· ject•vely as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opm1on of the maJority of the followmg Ed1tor·1n-Ch1ef. Managmg Editor. Execut1ve News Ed1tor. V1ewpo1nt Ed1tor. Sports Ed1tor. Accent Ed1tor, Photo Ed1tor. Samt Mary's Ed1tor. Commentaries, le"ers. and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space IS available to all members of the community and the free express1on of varymg opm1ons on campus. through letters. is encouraged 

<±RMANY IS ~INA.LLY R[UNWI~D 

Militarism in Israel shatters ideal of peace 
By Frank Corcoran 
Since its formation in 1948, the modern state of Israel has survived several attempts by surrounding countries to anni­hilate this new Jewish nation, which has developed into the most formidable military power in the Middle East today. But its military success, in a large part. rests on a fantastic amount of Ammiean monetary assistance, prompting some critics to name lsranl as Amer­ica's fifty-first statn. More sig­nificantly. Israel's excited mili­
tarism  has created  two  great  
problnrns:  
1.) an  economy  that  rests  

hnavily on arms production 
2.) thP displacement of Pales­tinian Arabs living in Israel and the occupied territories. 
Backed by the loud voice of Ameriea's Jewish population, Israel has enjoyed a steady in­flux of American government dollars into its rather unstable economy. Since the currency of this small country is not inter­nationally accepted, American dollars are vital to maintain its furious military expenditures. Arms produced in the country. formerly used only for Israel's own defense, are now being ex­ported to provide a much­needed income, a practice which many Israeli citizens be­lieve conflicts with the Zionist principles on which their coun­try was founded. 
An even greater threat to the moral fiber of this Jewish na­tion is its treatment of Pales­tinians living within its borders and in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. This popula­tion. which was displaced by the actual creation of the State of Israel, has been the object of Israeli aggression since 1967. Yet until recently, Israel has been able to justify its brutal policies toward the Palestinian 
nation as a defense against the 
violent terrorist acts of the 
PLO. However, since the start 
of the Intifada, a relatively non­
violent movement of the Pales­
tinian people, the people of Is­
rael have become divided over 
their policies toward the Arab 
nation in their midst. 

Many view the continuing conflict as a threat to the moral principles on which Is­rael was founded. As this harsh struggle rages on, the people of Israel find themselves fighting a dual war, a war with their consciences as well as with the Palestinians. It is a war which now also has begun to divide the American people who see their country's continued sup­port of Israel as a statement of approval of the aggressive ac­tion against the Palestinian people. 
For the most part, the Ameri­can Jewish voice remains strongly <>pposed to any varia­tion in U.S. foreign policy to­wards Israel, regarding any proposal for better relations with the Palestinians as a threat to the security of their Jewish Holy Land. American Jews seem to have formed an exalted image of Israel as the land of God's chosen people; many view the country's poli­cies as absolute, fearing to dis­agree with their revered gov­ernment. 
The great weakness of Amer­ican Jews is their refusal to recognize the fact that even God's chosen people arc ca­pable of making mistakes. And as long as the Jewish lobby forestalls attempts by thn American government to influ­ence a change in Jsranl's policy towards the Palestinians, the situation will continue to grow more intense, resulting in an uncontrolled upsurge of vio­lence in that nation which they believe to be so holy. 

Because of its extreme finan­cial ties with Jsranl, its is con­ceivable that America could usP its influence to compd Israel to negotiate with the existing rep­resentative body of the Pales­tinians, the PLO. But as long as American Jews maintain their opposition to any concossions with Palestine, Anwriea's role will be stifled. At this time America can either encourage Israel to takn up pmtceful rwgo­tiations with Palestine, or it can play witness to thn desecration of the Jloly Land through an increase in violenrn and bloodslwd. 
Through a pnacnf'ul resolu­tion. Israel could divert its hugn military spendings to more bcmwolnnt industries, thus uni­fying the nation in a mturn to the Zionist idnal that its f<m~fa­thers envisioned. 
Frank Corcoran is a senior history major. 
Changing gender roles shape career and family goals 
This week is family and gen­der issues week here on cam­pus. These two issues belong together; they are not exclusive of each other. People here at Notre Dame want to be rich and famous and happy and successful. This becomes more difficult as gender roles and family expectations are chang­ing. Is it possible to have both a family and a career'! Jlow real­istic is the Brady Bunch family, the Cosby Show, or the Leave lt To Beaver family'? 
On Thursday, Nov. 16, in the llesburgh Library Auditorium, a panel will be discussing these issues and conflicts. This panel will address the conflict of family and career from per­spectives that Notre Dame stu­dents will want to hear. There are eight members who eome 
DOONES~B~U~R_Y__~--­
LATER. IN TH& PAY, THe AIJ7HOR5 GUIW ~ A 5TA7l3M8NTCONIJElriNING 
5TA'Jl3.-5PON50R£[) 800K 
REV1!3WS ... 

800!<-516NING...
/ 

/
I 

Zack Hudgins Ideas and Issues 
from a diverse set of back­grounds in education, family, race, career, marital status, work experience, and gender. Couples will offer explanations of their experiences and deci­sions while individuals will ex­press their ideas and frustra­tions concerning this conflict. 
All of the panel members have a college education and many are professionals. These are the kind of people Notre Dame students have the potential to be. There is also representation of the "traditional family" who will describe what it is like to stay home and work for the survival of the family within the home. 
This event is just one of many in the month of November which focuses on gender issues. There are forums, speakers, marches and meetings. More people are becoming involved than in the past. The ball of re­alization has begun to roll to­wards recognition of the inequalities on campus. A few groups on campus have begun this process. This core is acting to help women and men stand on equal ground at Notre bame. Of course this means a lot of their events are targeted at Notre Dame women, but this place cannot change without men also realizing the vision of 
equality. 

This gender conflict within society, which is finally reach­ing campus, has overflowed into the family sphere. People want to be equal in their world roles. Women are espf~cially and this means equality in the sensitive to this conflict of family is also considered. But family versus career, but men how does this effect traditional are becoming inereasingly roles? The entire conflict be-aware of the possible conse­tween the equal opportunity, quences of a family and career especially in the career world, collision. and the image of the traditional What if a women wants a family fits perfectly into Notre career first? Will she have time Dame's "Year of the Family. and energy for children later? 
Notre Dame students are Does a man feel he can give up geared, through Notre Dame his career to care for children? values and education, to strive How do institutions view the for a good Catholic, American, problem? Do they give support and successful family. How can to house-husbands? Do and should the family deal with institutions provide parental the changing gender roles? leave or child care? These are How does a family operate the kinds of questions facing when the wife and husband Notre Dame students in thP both want a family and a ca-future. 
reer at the same time? zack 1/udgins is the Women ·s 
Notre Dame does not do a Concerns co-commissioner on fantastic job of resolving the Student Government. SU/J conflict of family and career, or sponsors the Ideas and Issues family and changing gender column. 
GARRY TRU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
...ANO IN A 5HOtf/ Of=50/,/J;;:lRJTY 
IN A R£LA7W lJ/3.Vf3lOP­
fli£UE,
FOR THetR. H/T-U'37lfl/ P/3&/<S, 
MeNT, 7He FIRSTlf/OULP­
513V8RAL-MeMBeRS RMIJ PA5­
813 A5SA551Na;tiSAPPRt­8UOOYl 
5A68~ FROM 7H8 eARJ..Y IAJ0/?./<5 
HeN[)[3[) Y~YAT f)R.OP7H&
Of JONG, I<ORI?A ANIJ 5HewoN. 
A teO 8U5CA6UA 
570N&5.1 
'The more faithfully you listen to the voice within you, the better you will hear what is sounding outside. And only the one who listens can speak.' 
Dag Hammarskjold 
Markings 
-

_,....---~-------~­
-
Accent
Tuesday, November 14 1989 
page 11 


Durer, Degas featured in newest Snite exhibit 
MICHAEL BAECHLER 
The museum has done a 
accent writer 

wonderful job of bringing 
magine walking into a 
a variety of works by
room full of prints and 
drawings by artists such well-known artists to the 
as Edgar Degas, Antoine 
campus
Watteau. James McNeill 
Whistler, Albrecht Durer 
and Chuck Close. The included information on the 
Snite Museum of Art is artist, subject and technique. 
offering you this chance. According to Stephen Spiro, the 
On display until Jan. 14 is the Snite's chief curator, the 
Snite's newest exhibition museum will try to continue "Recent Acquisitions of Prints this practice in future exhibi­and Drawings." Approximately tions. 40 works by well-known artists Spiro explained that the Snite 
are being shown in the Print has been able to significantly Drawing and Photography increase its print and drawing gallery of the museum. collection in the last few years. 
Upon first entering the While collecting prints is part of gallery, one immediately see's the normal activity for the 
Degas' "Study of a Ballerina" museum, he said, "this show is hanging proudly on the wall. a chance for us to try to show Movmg on, the visitor views the public what we are doing." Antoine Watteau's "Seated Spiro also explained that part Woman," James McNeill of the reason for the noticeable Whistler's "Soupe A Trois increase in the print and draw­Sous," Albrecht Durer's "The ing collection is the new inter­Prodigal Son and the est taken in the Snite's collec­Promenade" and more modern tions by Notre Dame alumni. works such as Chuck Close's One graduate in particular, 
"Robert I." John D. Reilly (class of 1963), All of the displayed works are has shown·a special interest in from the Snite's own collection. the museum's collection of 
Featured are the most recent prints, and is responsible for prints and drawings acquired the acquiring of approximately by the Museum through dona­one-third of the pieces dis­tions, purchases and gifts. The played in the current 
pieces represent the museum's exhibition. According to Spiro, collection of Italian, German, Reilly is just one of the many French, English and American graduates who have recently 
prints and drawings, ranging become active in the building of from 14th century manuscripts the Snite's collections. to contemporary drawings. The museum has done a won­
Most of the works shown have derful job of bringing a variety 
not been displayed prior to this of works by well-known artists 
exhibition. to the campus. It's worth the 
Visiting the show gives the time to stop by the museum and viewer a chance to see great enjoy the Snite's "Recent works, yet this show goes one Acquisitions of Prints and step beyond that. In an effort to Drawings." 
enhance the visitor's experi­The exhibit will be on display ence, the Snite has provided ba­during regular museum hours, 
sic background information which are Tuesday through 
with almost every piece in the Saturday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., 
show. Sunday 1 to 4 p.m., and 
In addition to the usual title, Thursday until 8 p.m. when date and artist displayed on the classes are in session. placards by each work, Mary Admission to the museum and Frisk, curatorial assistant, has the exhibit is free. 
-
COLLEEN CRONIN assistant accent editor 
T 
he time has come for the second production of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theater season. Three Sisters will be playing this Thursday through Sunday at Saint Mary's College. 
Written by Anton Chekov, Three Sisters is set in Russia m~ar the turn of the century. The play captures the dreams and frustrations of the three Prozorov sisters. Masha. Olgan and Irina. They yearn for Moscow. tlwir childhood home, and thPy fantasize about finding low. happiness and a future tlwre. Inevitably they become too caught up with their drParns to realizP the present around thPm. 
Throe Sisters is a two-sided play: a psychological drama and a romantic love story. It is a n~nection of Clwkov's percep­tion of human nature, and it is a story which speaks across time to the hopes and dreams of people everywhere. 
The set design had help from guest artist Luis Ramierez, the artistic director of Acacia Creative Services in Evanston, Ill. He designed three "box sets" as well as the furniture on properties that would reflect the time p~riod. Linda II. Wigley, a Saint Mary's faculty member, designed the the late 19th century costumes. Three Sisters is a production of visual richness with elaborate cos­tumes and realistic, well-fur­nished sets. 
Three Sisters will be per­formed in ()'Laughlin Auditorium from November 15 through November 18 at 8:10 
p.m.. and November 19 at 3:10 
p.m. Tickets are $4/$5 for stu­dents and senior citizens. and $6 for general admission. They are available at the Saint Mary's box office in the ()'Laughlin Auditorium. 

-
------~--------------------------­
page 12 The Observer
-
It would be highly unlikely for foreign firms to do in Tokyo what Mitsubishi did recently in New York by 

gaining controlling interest of the Rockefeller Center in New York. Extremely low vacancy rates and ex­
pensive prices make real estate in Tokyo almost unattainable. 

Classifie~-<Js 
NOTICES 
Big 4 Classic 
Decerrt>er 2 Sponsored by Soph. Class Tix and Transportation $35 Available in Soph. Class Office 


Spee-Dee 
Wordprocessing 
237·1949 
WORD PROCESSING 272·8827 
THANKSGIVING SERVICE PROJECT: Join other students working at a shelter for the home· less in Chicago. Call Jim Cabot @ 277·9198 or Mike Affeck@ 239-7943. 
TEXTBOOKS BOUGHT AND SOLD Pandora's Books 
corner of N.D. ave and Howard 233-2342 lots of paperbacks in stock! 

TYPING AVAILABLE. 287·4082. 
TYPING term papers/reports/letters/resumes Pick up & delivery available. 277·
-5134 10am-8pm 
TYPING 
PICKUP & DELIVERY 
277·7406 
Wordprocessing, 
call Marge 239-6347 

RIDE NEEDED: To Indiana U. 
(Bloomington) weekend of Nov. 
17·19. Will pay gas$$$. Call 
x1502 & ask for John. 
-

LOST I LOST MY WATCH IN C1 ON THUR. NOVEMBER 9 BETWEEN 
9:00 AND 9:30A.M. I WILL GLADLY PAY A REWARD. CALL STEVE AT 289·9710. 
LOST: single key, no key chain, marked 209. Lost Sunday afternoon between 02 and North Quad. Call Cara x4917. 

LOST: Two Cross Pens bearing the AT&T logo. One lost on 10/16 in room 122 Hayes Healy, other lost in LaFortune. Have 
-
sentimental value. If found please call Joe@ 3804: REWARD 
LOST 
I LOST MY WATCH IN C1 ON 
THUR. NOVEMBER 9 BETWEEN 
-9:00 AND 9:30A.M. I'LL PAY A 
REWARD. CALL STEVE AT 289· 9710. 
FOUND: WATCH IN THE HEISBURGH PARKING LOT CALL DORTHY @ 239-6640 18 K necklace with charms lost--­ATIENTION-HIRING! Please return to Stephanie @ 284· Government jobs · your area. 4431 $17,840-$69,485. Call 1·602-838· 
8885. Ext. R-6262. 
Found: a lady's ring between North dining hall and Cavanaugh COUCH or LOVE SEAT NEEDED. on November 7. Call Katie to IF U HAVE 1 TO SELL, CALL identify at #48281 x3609. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEW JERSEY-NYC AREA: I need LOST AND NEEDS TO BE ride home & back for Thanksgiving 
FOUND!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Break. If you're going to NJ/NYC JOHN CARLIN WANTS HIS area, I will share expenses and SCAPULA WITH VERY driving. Please call Ray 234·4332 IMPORTANT MEDALLION Leave message! ATIACHED LOST TWO 
SUNDAYS AGO ON STEPAN FIELD DURING FOOTBALL GAME.HUGE MONEY PRIZES DO THE DEED AND CALL ME AT 283· 1178 THANKS $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
LOST: Blue Notre Dame Pouch with valedine and detex. Please call x2922. 
LOST· LADIES WATCH, CITIZEN GOLD, ROUND FACE, CALL MJ 
#3032 
WANTED 
BE ON T.V. many needed for commercials. Now hiring all ages. For casting info. call (615) 779· 7111 Ext. T-1481 
Going to Penn State? 
I need ride to OH-PA 
border-will share expenses. 
Please call KRIST! -3778! 
RIDERS NEEDED TO BOWLING GREEN, OHIO. 11/17-11/19. CALL X 1675 
MIDWAY AIRLINES CAMPUS REP 
. Salary and limited free passes. 
. Promote travel among student 
organizations. 
. Possible full-time employment 
upon graduation. 
Send resume to: Pat Stamper 
MIDWAY AIRLINES SALES DEPT. 
5959 S. Cicero 
Ch1cago. IL 60638 
NEED ride to or near Long Island for lhanksgiving! Please call Mary Ellen at 3561. will share$ 
HELP! RIDE NEEDED FROM 
PHILADELPHIA-WILMINGTON 
AREA BACK TO NO Sun. 11/26 
Call Greg X3254 
OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo. 
Summer, Yr. round, All Countries, 
All fields. Free info. Write IJC, PO 
BX 52-Corona Del Mar CA 92625 
ATIENTION: EXCELLENT INCOME FOR HOME ASSEMBLY WORK. INFO. CALL 504·646-1700 DEPT. P5868 
GOVERNMENT JOBS! Now hiring in your area, both skilled and unskilled. For a current list of jobs and application, call1·615·383­2627 ext. p306 
FOR SALE 
BOSTON ANYONE? roundtrip plane ticket SB to Boston leaving 11 /21 ·$150 or b/o call Myndy @2472 
Is It T rue .... Jeeps for $44 through the Government? Call for facts! 1· 312-742·1142 Ext. 7316. 
1-WAY TICKET FROM SB TO DALLAS/FORT WORTH. LEAVES DEC 22.FEMALE ONLY. $160.CALL LISA AT 4916. 
1975 EL CAMINO. RUNS GOOD. $1500 FIRM. PAT 3598. 
TICKETS 
MIAMITIX for sale plus plane tic john 1700 for info 
AIRLINE TICKET SO.BEND TO ORLANDO ROUND TRIP NOV. 18-27.$180.00.291-5857 
2 RT TIX F/ SB TO ST. LOUIS. $100 EACH, OR BEST OFFER. CALL LIZ@ 284-5199. 
WANTED: MIAMI GAs for lots o cash. Call John or Frank X1419 
PENN STATE I NEED3GAS SHAWN 271-9901 
Wanted 2 tickets for the Miami game. Call Bob at 312·832·3308 $$! 
WANTED MIAMI GA'S. TOP$$ PD. CALL 256-1 034 THANKS! 
CHEAP RT TIX SBEND(12!22) to SACTO,CA RETURN(1/15) Marge 283-2898 
ALUM in NEED of NO/MIAMI tickets!!! Call on weekdays during the day COLLECT at# 202-457-5729. Do not hesitate to call. Your tickets will be bought!! 
HAVE TWO MIAMI GA'S 
B.O. BY THUR. EVE. CALL ROB 232·5701 
Tuesday, November 14, 1989 
U. Mass. students protest state aid cuts 
AMHERST, Mass. (AP) ­Hundreds of University of Mas­sachusetts students put down their books and picked up plac­ards Monday to boycott classes in a protest of state budget cuts that are forcing fee in­creases. 
"The state of Massachusetts must not be allowed to let the younger generation pay for the mistakes of the present genera­tion," said Lisa Nelson. a junior from Sunderland and a boycott organizer. 
The mood on campus was festive as picket lines snaked around buildings and people carrying banners marchnd through the Student Union. Nearly 2,000 of the campus' 25,000 students gathered on the steps of the student center to hear speakers at an after­noon rally calling for raising taxes, not cutting education. 
"You need to convince your representatives and senators that you are a force to be reek­oned with -that you will sup­port them if they support you," said history Professor Bruce Laurie, vice president of the faculty union. 

Organizers said the length of the protest depnnded on nnthu­siasm and participation by stu­dents at the univnrsity's Boston campus and at other state schools. 
The boycott protested a $25 million cut in public higlwr edu­cation brought on by Mas­sachusetts' fiseal crisis. The Amherst campus' share of the cutback is $6.4 million and fol­lows a 5 percent slash ordewd in July, said Paul Page, vie£~ chancnllor for finance and ad­ministration. 
Laurie said an informal ePn­sus among his colleaguns indi­eatnd 60 percent of Monday's classes were canceled bPeause of the boycott. University spokesmen said they wern still trying to determine the extent of the boycott by early after­noon, but some classes were being lwld. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces. 
I'll buy any tickets for any home game, or Miami. 
call JEFF at 239-3714, 
leave a message. Thanks. 
$$$HELP$$$ NEED MIAMI TIX CALL 3516 
TOP$ ALL HOME GA'S 312-920-9350 
NEED 2 GAs FOR NAVY CALL ANN 284-4223 
NEED MIAMI GA'S. WILL PAY$$$. CALL JIM HAGAN COLLECT 404­331-6039. CALL 404·351-7009 AFTER 6 PM. 
I simply must have 2 Miami tickets call Ted@ 1204 
PERSONALS 
Forget all the trials and tribulations and late nights. This is it. This is what we've all been waiting for. 
THE GATHERING It's an occassion for those who call this newspaper home ...and it's coming soon. 
If you have ideas, suggestions, or time to olfer, talk to Regis. If you have criticisms, keep them to yourself. 
Top Ten Quotes at the Fisher Formal 1 O)Maybe you should wear a white shirt next time.·SR 9)How will we ever top this?-AII 
B) Recognize the bowls?-PM 7)S.---1Somebody flicked cigarette butts in my beer.Betcha it was Hemsey.-AV 6)Why do you keep touching me?· 
? 

5)1 can't believe he ralphed on my leg.·SR 4)We took them home-Damn, do they ever split up?-PM 3)1 think I'll become a priest.·AV 2)1 came the closest-SA 1 )It's over-let's get plastered.-AII 
Jeannie· You're So, So Cool! Can I Be You? 
Rats Shouldn't Play Putt · Putt ! 
NEED RIDE: to Wash. DC area for Thanksgiving break CALL X1329 OR X1331 
JACK RYAN DESTROYED TIM SUTION 21-10 IN RAQUETBALL! JACK KNOWS RAQUETBALL, TIM DOESN'T! 
WIN A MACINTOSH SE! Bring a raffle ticket to Theodore's WEDNESDAY, NOV.15, 7·10P.M. 
DVS 
HAS 
ARRIVED_ 
BROCCOLI 

Miami! Miami! Miami! Miami! I need a ride to Miami for lhe game. I'm willing to share expenses and my food. If you're going and have some room. CALL MIKE AT 1789. 
Do your professors put notes, old exams, answers. and other readings on reserve? Ask your professors to put them on file at THE COPY SHOP where you can get 6¢ copies quickly 
Happy 22nd CHERIE and CHRIS LEFEVRE! -the saints 
CHICAGO! CHICAGO! CHICAGO! NOVEMBER 15...$12 LEAVE LEMANS CIRCLE 7:30pm 
RETURN 1:30am (N.D. TIME) FOR TICKETS CALL: LISA 284·5196, ANN 277·4954 AMY 284-5133 CHICAGO! CHICAGO! CHICAGO! 
TO MARYANN I LOVE YOU VERY MUCH, MIKEY 

Q.T .. I am back with a lot more to 
offer you. Come back to me. LENNY 
OVERSEAS JOBS. $900·2000 mo.Summer,Yr.round,AII Countries,AII fields, Free info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del Mar CA 92625. 
Hi JUDY. Smile! --a special friend 
JUNIORS 

JUNIORS Join your friends for dinner and dancing WEDNESDAY at Center Street Blues Cafe. A reggae band will be playing. $3 cover. Buses leave main circle at 7 pm and return at 10 . 
HEY KELLY DOYLE­

EdWHO?!? Answer here, ·cause I want proof. Love, his pal Steve. 
OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTs-­take a load off! Rent a locker in LaFortune. Contact the Information Desk, 1st Floor LaFortune 
You may have a pre-paid Value Check Coupon Book waiting for you at the LaFortune Information Desk. Please stop in soon and check. 
Intellectual Life Committee invites you to view the film "ROMERO" at University Park East 

Wed., Nov. 15, 7:00 Admission $3.00 at door Free bus, 6:15, Main Circle 
Discussion at Keenan Chapel See the story of the martyred Archbishop of San Salvadore Model United Nations will meet Thursday, Nov. 16, at 7 pm for a simulation. in 220 Hayes-Healy. 
Knights of Columbus will have a general council meeting tonight at 7 pm at the Knights of Columbus hall. All members are urged to attend. 
To Jennifer C. Pave, The Birthday 
Girl: Have a wicked birthday. You're a wonderful friend. Thanks for every1hing ...especially for watching after me last weekend. I promise to behave from now on, so you don't have to worry about me anymore. Remember--great minds think alike ...quite often, in fact. but that's okay. It makes life interesting. Have a fun day and happy 18th!!! Love, Diane 
CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable atmosphere, daily & weekly specials, pool table, English darts, and great company. 234-3541 
HiAg! 

ANTI-APARTHEID VIGIL EVERY FRI12:15 ADMIN BLDG STEPS 
GOING ABROAD SALE IBM Proprinter XL ($250) & IBM PC Jr. w/ 256K ($300), (OBO) MANY PROGRAMS INCLUDED ... Call Christine 283·2845 
ADOPTION · Well-educated couple eager to adopt a baby. Cheerful home full of books. Flexible on sharing information with birthmother about child. Our adoption agency can provide counseling and references. Please call collect 309·827 -3135 eves/wknds for profile/photo. James and Hollis. 
STUDENT-MADE FOOTBALL T­SHIRTS WANTED. CALL TOM COLLECT AT (602) 948·7610 WITH DESCRIPTION. ESPECIALLY WANT CATHOLICS vs. CONDOMS. WILL PAY $12.50/SHIRT. 
come back here, you almond-eyed sea nymph... 
........................................... 
WIN A VCR! ANYONE CAN WIN I TICKETS ON SALE FOR $1 AT THE SENIOR/ALUMNI CLUB AND SENIOR CLASS OFFICES. OTHER PRIZES INCLUDE GIFT CERTIFICATES AT LOCAL RESTAURANTS. DRAWING NOV. 15. 
LENNY'S WHERE DOMER"S 
MEET. NOW OFFERING PIZZA, 
DELl SAND. , BURGERS, BEER. 
MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL 
WATCH THE GAME AT LENNY'S 
DAILY FOOD SPECIALS. 
Think about it... Then let it happen. 
Top teams make reservations for New Year's Day bowls 
(AP)  - Unlike  millions  of  
procrastinators,  many  of  
r.ollege  football's  top  tl~ams  
alrnady  are  making  

reservations for New Year's Day. 
Bowl bids can't offir.ially be cxt!mded until Nov. 25, but the matr.hups for for the major games appan~ntly arc set. 
It should b1~ top-ranked Notre Dame vs. No. 2 Colorado in the Orange, Alabama vs. Miami in the Sugar. Tennessee vs. the Arkansas-Texas A&M winner in the Cotton and Florida State vs. Nebraska in the Fiesta. 
Other likely matr.hups on Jan. 1 are Southern California vs. Mir.higan in the Hose, th1~ Big TPn runnPr-up vs. Virginia in the Citrus and Ohio State vs. Auburn in the llall of Fame. 
The Notre Dame-Colorado game probably will decide the national rhampionship. But Michigan. Alabama, Miami and the Florida State-Nebraska winner still have an outside shot at tlw title. 
Notre Danw is expected to go to tlw Orange 1wen it loses its final two games to PPnn State and Miami. That's b1~rause Notre Danw still would be 10-1 going into thP Nov. 25 Miami gamP. and that won't be over until aftPr tlw bowl bids are announcPd. Colorado seems cPrtain to Pnter the Orange Bowl with an 11-0 n~cord bPrausP its last regular-sPason ganw is against 1-9 Kansas StatP. 
Although he wouldn't come right out and reveal it, Orange Bowl president Tom Wood left little doubt Monday about the matr.hup in Miami. 
"If you read the polls, you'll see who my favorite teams are," he said. 
Alabama, the only other national title contender with a perfect record, clinched a tie for the Southeastern Conference championship Saturday by beating Louisiana State 31-16. Auburn could create a three-way tie for the title by beating Alabama on Dee. 2, but the Sugar Bowl won't wait that long to pick its SEC team. That means 
Alabama will play Miami, which wrappPd up the other Sugar bid Saturday with a 24-3 victory over Pittsburgh. 
The Cotton Bowl had to scramble for its visiting team after Nebraska players voted to go to the Fiesta. As of Monday afternoon, Tennessee appeared to be the most likely opponent for the SWC champion, which should be the winner of the Arkansas-Texas A&M game Nov. 24. 
A Nebraska-Florida State pairing in the Fiesta would be a rematch of the 198R game, which the Seminoles won 31-28. 
"That's our best matchup," said Don Meyers, the bowl's selection chairman. "We want to match up Florida State with the next highest-ranked opponent we could get. And the next highPst-ranked team that 

would be available would be if the Cotton doesn't take Nebraska." Tennessee, the Citrus might 
Michigan has the inside track choose the Volunteers instead for the Big Ten's spot in the of Virginia. Rose, but the Wolverines have to beat Minnesota and Ohio 
In non-New Year's bowls, the State to clinch it. If they don't, 
most likely p_atnngs are Illinois probably would play 
Clemson-West Virginia in the Southern Cal, which won its Gator, Penn State-Brigham
third straight Pac-1 0 title Young in the Holiday. Georgia­Saturday by beating Arizona 
Duke in the All American, 24-3. 
Hawaii-Michigan State in the If Illinois doesn't go to 
Aloha, Air Force-Mississippi in 
Pasadena, look for the Illini to play Virginia in the Citrus. But the Liberty, Texas Tech-Tulsa in the Independence and Pitt vs. the Arkansas-Texas A&M loser in the John Hancock. 
Also, Syracuse vs. the Florida-Kentucky winner in the Peach, India-na vs. the Washington-Washington State 
winner in the Freedom. Fresno 
State vs. Ball State or Central 
Michigan in the California and 
the Arizona-Arizona State 
winner vs. Florida. North 
Carolina State, Texas Tech or 
Syracuse in the Copper. 
7 teams hold onto top spots; Duke, Hawaii creep into poll 
Carolina State 35-26 Saturday. 
for basketball and llawaii is "It's  an  honor  for  our The Top Twenty Five teams in theattention." Michigan defeated Illinois 24­ 
bnttPr known for sunshine. but program  and  a  credit  to  Associated Press college football poll. withour 10, Alabama downed LouisianaWhile there were changes at first-place votes in parentheses, records  
this week they're both in the players that  we  made it.  But State 32-16, Nebraska routed  
Kansas 51-14 and Miami beat


what we really want is to be ranked at the end of the season." 
Hawaii moved into the rankings for only the second time in school history following a 34-26 victory over Pacific. 
"We're certainly happy to get national recognition -it's something we've been striving for," Hawaii coach Bob Wagner said. "If we can continue to play good football, 
~need someone with the confidence ofaSUl'geOil,the dedication ot amarathoner and the rourage ofan explorer. 
We need a Peace Cnrp~ vnlumeer Cdll u~ at 1·800-424·8580, Ext. 9~ 
PeaceCorps. 
ThriOuftw"Aphvoul_,-~, 

(API -DukP is bPtter known 
college football limPiight. 
Duke broke into the rankings for the first time since 1971 and llawaii for the first time since ICJR I in Monday's Associated Press poll. The Blue Devils, 7-3, gained the final spot in the Top 25 while the Hainbows. 8-2, are No. 24. 
"Orw of our goals was to be in the Top 25 this year," said Duke coach Steve SpurriP.r, whose team beat North 
·
,,, o,.,,,~,Jt,.,,,.,, ,,, ,, Jr,,,,, ,,,,. ,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,, 
''"''' ;,~,. ,,,,,,,,,/l,,h /,,m.do•-.., It •I'''~ ''""'I"'" <oJ•IIIr'ftiiWI" lwlt• •filii "lltf/•1 '" I• ,,.J,,,,~J 
itde';;:.+ 

ATTENTION STUDENTS!! ATTENTION STUDENTS!! losing to Miami and Penn State went from No. 13 to No. 17 after tying Maryland 13-13.
NOTRE DAME'S DEVELOPMENT PHONE CENTER 

hopefully we'll get even more place votes and 1,439 points. 
the bottom of the rankings, the 
top seven remained unchanged Pittsburgh 24-3. Florida State-Notre Dame, Colorado, did not play.
Michigan. Alabama. Florida State, Nebraska and Miami. 
Notre Dame, which clobbered Rounding out the Top 10 are Southern Methodist 59-6, Southern Cal, Tennessee and received 57 first-place votes Arkansas. Southern Cal moved and 1.497 of a possible 1,500 up one spot after beating points from a nationwide panel Arizona 24-3, Tennessee went of sports writers and 
from No. 11 to No. 9 after 
broadcasters. Colorado, which 
crushing Akron 52-9 and 
beat Oklahoma State 41-17, Arkansas remained No. 10 
received the other three first-following a 19-10 win over Baylor. 

Ohio State moved into the Top 25 after blanking Iowa 28-0, while Florida, N.C. State and Arizona dropped out following losses. 
Of the teams still ranked, 
+ 
Illinois, Pitt and Penn State fell
For the facts call your local Red Cross. or write, 
the farthest. Illinois dropped
AIDS
American Red Cross ~ V.ashington. DC 20006 

from No. 8 to No. 12 after losing to Michigan, Pitt plunged from No. 14 to No. 19 after 
through Nov. 11, total points based on 25· 24-23-22-21·20·19-18·17·16-15·14·13­12-11·1 0-9·8-7-6-5-4·3-2·1 and last week's ranking: 
Record Pts Pvs 

1. Notre Dame (57) 1 0·0-0 1 ,497 1 2. Colorado (3) 1 0·0·0 1.439 2 3. Michigan 8·1 ·0 1 ,360 3 4. Alabama 9·0·0 1 ,312 4 5. Florida St. 7-2-0 1,240 5 6. Nebraska 9-1-0 1 .197 6 7.Miami.Fia. 8-1·0 1,163 7 8. Southern Cal 8·2·0 1 ,076 9 9. Tennessee 7-1-0 991 11 10. Arkansas 8-1-0 979 1 0 11. Auburn 7 ·2-0 866 12 12. Illinois 7 ·2-0 855 8 13. Houston 7 -2·0 754 15 14. Texas A&M 7·2-0 680 16 15. Clemson 8·2-0 632 17 16. Virginia 9·2·0 564 18 17.PennSt. 6·2·1 425 13 18. West Virginia 7 ·2·1 393 19 19. Pittsburgh 5·2·1 379 14 20. Texas Tech 7·2·0 334 23 21. Brigham Young 8·2·0 310 21 22. Ohio St. 7·2·0 262 23. Fresno St. 10-0·0 233 24 24. Hawaii 8·2-0 131 25. Duke 7-3-0 114 
Other receiving votes: Michigan St. 88. Georgia 81. Oklahoma 63, Florida 31, N. Carolina St. 14, Texas 12. Syracuse 7, Arizona 6. Arizona St. 5, South Carolina 3. Oregon 2. Kentucky 1 , Mississippi 1. 
NOW HIRING FOR THE 1990 SPRING SEMESTER 
20-30 Student Positions Available 
$4.70 Per Hour Flexible evening hours: 6:45-10:45 All interested are invited to an informal Open House/Information Session at the Development Phone Center (southeast corner of Badin Hall) Monday November 13 or Tuesday November 14 From 4:00pm-5:00pm 
PLEASE JOIN US 
For more information, call Carol McClory 239-7938 or Mike Brach 239-7241 



Tuesday, November 14, 1989
page 14 The Observer 
Jackson 'more relaxed' after '88-'89 All-American season 
BATON HOU(;E, La. (AP) -said, Jackson had a lot of The shy, mumbling Chris ability to begin with, so there Jackson of last season is gone, wasn't much sculpting to be replaced by a poised young done. Second. LeAnne Weill, his mndia-wise man who looks wife and president of the firm, dirnctly into the camera, worked most directly with responds to questions with full, Jackson. elaborate answers and lets his Weill did admit one similarity smile light up the room. with the Greek myth. He fell in 
Part of the change is due to a love with his subject. year of dealing with reporters "I never heard a word of who hounded Jackson all of the profanity from his lips," Weill 1988-89 basketball season as said. "I've never heard him he set freshman scoring speak ill of another athlete. records, led surprising You could pick the worst Louisiana State into its 11th basketball player in the world, straight postseason and Chris would find something tournament and made All­good to say about him. America, only the second • "He's a most delightful, freshman ever to do so. clean, quiet, unassuming man." 
"I guess I'm just more Although himself an LSU relaxed around ~ou guys," graduate, class of '55, Weill Jackson said. ''I'm used to said he never had attended a you." basketball game before 
But there's more to it than becoming a friend of Coach that. Faced with a choice of Dale Brown four years ago. His summer jobs, Jackson description of Jackson's deliberately took an internship summer revealed that Weill had with the public relations firm of accepted the stereotype of the Gus Weill. Jackson was the first "jock." athlete ever accepted for the "Off the court, there is part-time job open to an LSU nothing of the athlete about 
LSU's All-American Chris Jackson is feeling more confident about facing the press after a red-letter
student every summer. Chris," Weill said. "He's not 
freshman year. LSU enters the season ranked second behind UNLV in pre-season polls and Jackson hopes
"I didn't take any (public macho, no gold chains around 
to lead his Tiger teammates to a first-place berth and to yet another post-season bid. 
speaking) courses, but I his neck. He's affectionate. He's worked in a public relations the sort of kid you'd love to clients before the camera. uncontrollable vocal outbursts. kept secret about Chris office during the off-season," have as a son. "As we'd ride back, we'd talk "Chris and I made a spot this Jackson." 
he said. "This kid is something. He's about what they did well, what summer for the Tourette Mrs. Weill, a New York­
"Mr. Weill talked to me a lot, come up tough, but there's such they might have done better, Association -a public service trained dancer, said she knows told me how to talk to people, decency. I hate to use this how we helped them. spot," Mrs. Weill said. "They're almost nothing of basketball what to say. We'd hold pretend word, but there's a 'purity' "He's awfully bright, and he going to start airing it after the but appreciates the sport interviews, and he would tell about him. picked up everything right season starts. becaust~ of the fluid beauty of me, 'Chris, look at me when you "We kept waiting for the bad away. "At the beginning of the the athletic moves. talk to me.' 'Relax, Chris.' part to emerge. That never "A lot of his growth, the lack summer, Chris would not have 'Chris, is this what you really happened." of discomfiture, is probably done that. He helped write it, "Between Gus and me, we want to say?' " Le Anne Weill's evaluation just a natural maturation.... edit it, and he picked out the have three degrees from LSU, 
Weill is a published novelist, was equally glowing, but she Hf~re he is from a small town background music. but we'd never attended a biographer, playwright and talked more about the on this great big campus with basketball game -or a poet as well as a kingmaker fundamentals of Jackson's everything that's happening. I "He's a pro. You want to give football game, either, for that with a history of successful transformation. imagine he was pretty much at someone a 30-second speech to matter," she said. "I don't management of political "!lis official duty was as my sea." memorize and speak it sincerely know Chris Jackson as a campaigns over the past assistant," she said. "Whatever Jackson has Tourette before a camera, give it to him. basketball player. but I do quarter century. I did, he did. He was right there Syndrome, a neurological "He has a wonderful ear -a know him as a person. 
lie laughed at the suggestion by my side all the time. In this disorder that causes photographic memory for the "Our love for Chris is not he had played Pygmalion to business, you have to work with involuntary twitches and ear, if there is such a thing. His because he can put a ball Jackson's Galatea. First, he clients, and you have to put gestures and sometimes intellect is probably the best through a hoop. 
UNLV easy choice for No.1 ; LSU 2nd in preseason poll 
The Top Twenty Five teams in the 

(API -UNLV, which added LSU, which will feature Missouri was 11th and was highest ranked team from last
Associated Press· preseason college 
basketball poll. with first·place votes in junior college player of the year sophomore sensation Chris followed by Louisville, UCLA, season not to be included in the parentheses. total points based on 25-24-Larry Johnson to a deep, Jackson as well as a frontline Indiana, Temple, Oklahoma, preseason voting. The Pirates 23·22·21·20·19-18·17·16-15·14·13·12-veteran roster, was the easy bolstered by freshman Notre Dame, Pittsburgh, North lost all live starters from last 
11·1 0·9-8· 7 ·6·5·4·3·2·1, 1988·89 record 
choice on Monday as the No. 1 Shaquille O'Neal and Prop 48 Carolina State, Minnesota, year's team.
and last year's final ranking: 
Record  Pts  Pvs  team in The Associated Press'  sophomore  Stanley  Hoberts,  Oklahoma State, Georgia Tech,  Eighth-ranked  Illinois  and  
1. UNLV (30)  29-8  1,555  15  Top 25 college basketball poll.  had  14 first-place  votes  and  Florida, Memphis State and St.  No.  10  Duke  were  the  other  
2. LSU(14)  20·12  1.447  The  Runnin'  Hebels,  which  1 .44 7  points,  16  more  than  John's.  members of last season's Final  
3. Syracuse(8) 4. Michigan (7) 5. Georgetown (4)  30-8 30· 7 29·5  1,431 1,415 1,412  7 10 2  finished last season 29-8 and one victory shy of the Final  Syracuse, which had eight first­place votes.  LSU team  was the highest-ranked this season not to be  Four. while St. John's was the NIT champion.  
6. Arizona (1)  29·4  1,266  1  Four, received 30 of 65 first­ ranked in last year's final poll.  
7. North Carolina 8. Illinois 9.Arkansas(1) 10. Duke  29·8 31·5 25·7 28·8  1 . 118 5 1,116 3 982 872 9  place votes and 1,555 points from the nationwide panel of sportwriters and broadcasters  Defending national champion Michigan was next with seven first-place votes and 1,415  Arkansas was the highest ranked team of the six in the  Three conferences t~ach had four teams in the preseason poll: Big East (Syracuse,  
11. Missouri  29·8  867 6  to easily outdistance Louisiana  points, just  three  ahead  of  poll which were not ranked at  Georgetown, Pittsburgh and St.  
12.Louisville  24·9  714 12  State for the top spot.  Georgetown,  which  had  four  any  point  last  season.  The  John's),  Big  Ten  (Michigan, 
13. UCLA 14. Indiana 15. Temple  21-10 27·8 18·12  713 638 8 565  "I just hope they're all right," UNLV coach Jerry Tarkanian  first-place votes.  others were Pittsburgh, Minnesota, Oklahoma State,  Illinois, Indiana and Minnesota), and Atlantic Coast  
16. Oklahoma  30·6  564  4  said  when  told  of the  No.  1  Arizona,  North  Carolina,  Memphis State and St. John's.  Conference  (North  Carolina,  
17. Notre Dame  21·9  560  ranking. "I like our tea111 very  Illinois,  Arkansas  and  Duke  Seton  Hall,  the  national  Duke, North Carolina State and  
18. Pittsburgh 19. N. Carolina St. 20. Minnesota  17·13 22·9 19·12  550 405 19 327  much. I like our kids very much. They've got a great ethic and  rounded out the Top Ten. Arizona, the No. 1 team  in  runner-up last season, was the  Georgia Tech).  
21. Oklahoma St.  17·13  307  they want to win."  last season's final poll, had one  
22. Georgia Tech 23. Florida 24. Memphis St. 25. St. John's  20·12 21-13 21-11 20·13  293 269 217 173  The last time UNLV was ranked No. 1 was the 1986-87 season when the Hunnin' Rebels  first-place vote, the same number as Arkansas, the seventh and final team to be  SOPHOMORES  


Other receiving votes: Ball St. 143, held the top spot for 12 weeks. No. 1 on a ballot. Texas·EI Paso 143, Clemson 142, Texas 115, Houston 104. Loyola Marymount 61. Rutgers 58. Florida St. 52, La Salle 43, Wake Forest 42, Alabama 36, Oregon St. 31, Kansas 30. Mississippi 28. Xavier, Ohio 28. Ohio St. 27, Michigan St. 26. 
TYLER-

Seton Hall 24. Villanova 23, New Mexico 21, Ala.·Birmingham 20, Ark.-Little Rock 
You were WAY 

20. S. Illinois 19. Pepperdine 14, DePaul 13, Kansas St. 10. James Madison 9. Iowa 
sty/in' on

St. 8. Old Dominion 8. Middle Tenn. 7. Boston U. 6. Georgia 6, Evansville 5, UC Santa Barbara 5. Maryland 4, Idaho 3, 
your Virginia 3. Austin Peay 2, Creighton 2, N. Iowa 2. Providence 2, West Virginia 2, E. 
19th & still look 
Tennessee St. 1. Purdue 1. 
great the day
WE'D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE 
after! 

UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS 
OH, SURE... 
MADE POSSIBLE BY 
LOVE,

THE CONSTITIITION OF THE UNITED STATES_ 
JB& Tracy
THE CONSTITIITION 
, J11c.· \\/llfj'i \\'{' lJ\'C ~· 

Oolf 't/f't.ftaei«J/tioat 
a'W'titirj to io dartirj 
UalftOI" POJ<-~Ift~ U/uielfl 
JOIN THE JPW SOPHOMORE COMMITTEE 
Applications Now Available in the Office of Students Activities (3rd Floor Lafortune) Due Thursday, Nov. 16 by 5 P.M. 

---··---------------------.---------.--------------------------------------.---..-~---.·--------------------------------~~ 
Tuesday, November 14, 1989 The Observer page 15 
Jets' O'Brien assailed for 'wimping out' by New Yorkers 

llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllll:lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!llllllllllllllllllll!ll 
WithMacintosh 
youcanevendo this: 

New  S€N  
Open...  S€0  
Close  


Madntosh"computers have Madntosh Sale, you can wind up with always been easy to use. But they've much more ofacomputer. never been this easy to own. Without spending alot more money 
Presenting The Macintosh Sale. 
ThroughJanuary 31, you can save hundreds ofdollars on avariety ofApple" Macintosh computers and peripherals. 
So now there's no reason to settle for an ordinary PC.With The 
Notre Dame Computer Store Office of University Computing Math/Computing Center 
239·7477 


HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. (AP) ­Ken O'Brien has been a New York Jet for nearly seven seasons. He has been a battered player for most of that time. 
Considering that, for anyone to question O'Brien's guts on one play has Coach Joe Walton incensed. 
"The way I see the play is it could happen to anybody," Walton said of O'Brien's scramble in Sunday's 31-23 loss to Miami. The quarterback appeared ready to go into the end zone but, at the 1-yard line, he stood straight rather than dive and took a hard hit from safety Louis Oliver. 
Not only did O'Brien not score, but the Jets wound up with a field goal when Johnny Hector was thrown for a loss on the next play. 
It was the most damaging of six short-yardage failures for the struggling Jets. And the play was shown throughout the country on the highlight shows. 
Even a New York Times columnist ripped into O'Brien for "wimping out" and questioned if his teammates might think O'Brien had lost his nerve. 
O'Brien wasn't talking, which is unusual for him. 
"I don't have anything to say," he said as he left the team's training complex. "Have a nice day." 
Walton had plenty to say. 
"The thing that bothers me the most is the way the New York media perceived the play and also got after Kenny," Walton said. "Kenny has been a tough football player and played very tough under trying situations. 
"And to insinuate he is anything else but a tough guy disappoints me. 
"I think some of the press and media ought to re-evaluate when they start talking about a tough football player." 
Oliver had no doubts about why O'Brien didn't score. 
"If he dove, he could've made it, but he just folded," the rookie said. "I saw his face. I don't think he wanted that touchdown. He was afraid to take a hit." 
O'Brien has taken uncounted hits during his career. The Jets have not had good pass protection for him and he is not a nimble scrambler. 
But he's always fought back. Even this year, with the Jets 2-8 and going nowhere and with a mediocre offense that O'Brien hasn't been able to spark, his fortitude never has been in doubt. 
Until now. And he wasn't willing to confront the issue Monday. 
O'Brien's teammates said any questions about his nerves were unfounded. 
''He's as tough as they come," center Jim Sweeney said. "He just made a decision that didn't work. We've all done that." 
"Ken O'Brien has proven his toughness over the years to everyone in this locker room and I think he's proven it to all the reporters, too," defensive end Marty Lyons said. 
"The person you should 
discuss it with is Kenny," wide "We could get into a verbal receiver AI Toon said. "It didn't war with Oliver, but what for?" involve me." Lyons said. "If it happens again 
But Toon said Oliver's and Kenny knocks him on his comments could plague the backside, then maybe he can go Dolphin in the future. over and ask Oliver, 'What do 
"It just makes it tough for you say now?'" him," Toon said. "If you say Sunday, O'Brien said, "I something about someone, in should have dove" for the end most cases, try to think positive zone. Presented with Oliver's or keep quiet." comments, O'Brien said, "If 
Lyons agreed. that's his opinion, I don't think 
much of it. How could he know 
what's going through my 
mind?" 

Walton wouldn't hear of any criticism of O'Brien's toughness. 
"Unless you've been in the arena and been in those situations with your helmet on and down on that field," he said, "it's tough to pass judgment on anything." 
© 1989 Apple Computer, file Apple, tbe Apple logo, 1111d .\lacilllosh are registered trademarks ofApple Comptller, f11c. 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 




AP Photo Dominque Wilkins tossed in 34 points and Moses Malone tallied 28 points and 14 rebounds in the Atlanta Hawks 112-104 win over the Orlando Magic. The Hawks took advantage of eight Orlando missed layups in the fourth quarter to record their second consecutive victory over the Magic. The Hawks had beaten Orlando Saturday by 39 points. 
page 16 
Hawks down Magic in 2nd straight by 8 
OHLANDO, Fla. (AP) ­Dominique Wilkins scored 34 points and Moses Malone had 28 points and 14 rebounds as the Atlanta Hawks took advantage of Orlando's eight missed layups in the fourth quarter to beat the Magic 112­104 Monday night. 
The Hawks led 102-99 with 

2:15 left. then outscored the Magic 10-5 to win their second consecutive game. 
The Hawks, which beat the Magic by 39 points Saturday night. led 56-47 at halftime. But Orlando opened the third p1~riod with a 10-3 run to make it 59-57. 
The Magic pulled within two points eight times in the third period and drew even twice. Orlando never led while losing its third consecutive game. 
The Magic played without a true center. placing 6-foot-11 Dave Corzine on the injured list Monday with torn knee ligaments. Malone scored 21 points in the first half as Orlando rotatnd three differnnt players at center to stop the 6­10 All-Star. 
John Battle scored 18 points for Atlanta. getting eight in the fourth quarter. 
Orlando was led by Terry Catledge and Jnrry Heynolds with 18 points each, but they were a combined 13 of 37 from the floor. 
Sam Vincent added 17 points for the Magic. 
Atlanta shot 45.6 percent, making 42 of 92 attempts. Orlando struggled, especially 
with  layups,  hitting  36.8  
pPreent-35 of 95.  
Despite  the  team's  size  

disadvantage, the Magic outrebounded Atlanta 55-46. 
WE'D LIKE TO REMIND YOU THAT THE UNCENSORED CONTENT OF THIS NEWSPAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE BY THE CONSTITIITION OF THE UNITED STATES. 
THE ffiNSTITIJTION 
'llw w,,rds we U\'c tr.· 


ATsaT 
The right choice. 
The Observer Tuesday, November 14, 1989 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Big Four Classic student tickets will go on sale from 9 a.m.to 5 p.m. Tuesday at Gate 10 of the Joyce ACC. The tickets are $25 for the games. Notre Dame will play Louisville and Indiana will meet Kentucky in the games on Dec. 2. Students may buy one ticket per [[) with a maximum of four IDs. 
TaeKwonDo/Hapkido Club will meet 8:30 to 9:30 p.m. Tuesdays and Thursdays in Hoom 219 Hockne Memorial. Sixth degree black belt Phil Hong will tnach the classns. Bnginners are welcome. 
David Glass won Sunday's Greek Streak 5K run sponsornd by SUB. Glass ran the race in 17:35. Kerry Hagen won the women's crown in 20:33. 
Equestrian Club will meet at 10 p.m. tonight in Hoom 222 of the library. 
NVA deadlines are Wednesday, Nov. 15 for advanced scuba, table tennis, water lacrosse and squash. For more information call 239-6100. 
The NO Boxing Club will hold a mandatory meeting for all 1990 Bengal Bouts participants, Thursday, Nov. 16 at 7 p.m. in the football auditorium and the Joyce ACC. Enter Gatn 2. 
Sherri Orlosky. a preseason AII-Amnrican from Baltimore's Atholton High School, has signed a national letter of intent to play basketball for the Notre Dame women's basketball team. Kristen Knapp of Santa Barbara. Calif. signed with the Irish last week. 
Go ahead and gloat. You can rub it in all the way to Chicago with AT&T Long Distance Service. Besides, your best friend Eddie was the one who said your team could never win three straight. 
So give him acall. It costs a lot less than you think to let him know who's headed for the Playoffs. Reach out and touch someone~ 
Ifyoutllike to know more about .Al&T products and services, like International Calling and the A1&T Card, call us at 1800 222-0300. 

Oilers win barnburner 26-24 over Bengals in 4th quarter 
Zendejas' 4th field goal lifts Houston 
HOUSTON (AP) -Tony and early in the fourth to give Zendejas' fourth field goal of Houston a 16-13 lead. the game with no time left All were set up by the Oilers' capped a fourth-quarter duel special teams, which also had between Warren Moon and scored the Bengals' only Boomer Esiason that gave the touchdown to that point when Houston Oilers a 26-24 victory Johnny Meads blocked a Lee over Cincinnati and put the Johnson punt and Eugene Seale Bengals' hopes of another fell on it in the end zone. Super Bowl trip in deep Just 57 seconds later, the jeopardy. Bengals were back in front, 
Zendejas' 27 -yard kick came courtesy of the Esiason-to­
at the end of a 70-yard drive Holman pass. 
engineered by Moon that began That lead lasted less than 90 
with 4:47 remaining after seconds. Moon hit Leonard 
Esiason had twice brought the Harris for 36 yards, got a 15­
Bengals from behind. yard face-mask call tacked on, 
Esiason, who left last week's then hit Harris again for 23 
game in the first quarter with a yards and a touchdown, the 
bruised lung, threw a 73-yard first of Harris' four years in 
touchdown pass to tight end the NFL. 
Rodney Holman after the Back came the Bengals as 
Bengals had fallen behind 16-Esiason hit Tim McGee for 40 
13. He then completed two long yards and Holman for 20 to set 
passes to set up Jim Breech's up the Breech kick that made it 38-yard field goal with 7:27 left 24-23 with 7:33 left. But after that provided a 24-23 each team stalled, Moon Cincinnati lead. started the Oilers on their The first touchdown came on which Cris Dishman was also Jerry Glanville gave up theThe loss left the Bengals at 5-winning drive, beginning with a Brooks' 58-yard burst up the called for a blow to the face. It almost sure field goal to go for5, two games behind Cleveland 20-yard pass to Haywood middle on a third-and-six play came with Cincinnati facing a it, and Moon was dropped for ain the AFC Central and a game Jeffires, and including a 10­48 seconds into the second fourth and 17 from its own 4-1-yard loss by Jim Dkow. 
behind the Oilers, 6-4. yard run for a first down on quarter, the second on Craig yard-line. The automatic first On the next series, however,Cincinnati also has what third and 10. 
Taylor's 1-yard run with 13 down gave the Bengals new life William Fuller sacked Esiason appears to be the toughest The game hardly started that 
seconds left. that they turned into an 89-for a 12-yard loss to the 1 and
remaining schedule of the way. 
Brooks, who got 131 of his yard drive for the touchdown. on the next play, Meads blocked 
three. Cincinnati led 14-7 at 
141 yards in the first half, Taylor's score was set up by Lee Johnson's punt. The ballThe heroics all came in a halftime, taking advantage of would never have gotten the an 18-yard pass interference went straight into the air andfireworks-filled fourth quarter Houston penalties for its first chance had not Richard call on Patrick Allen. Seale emerged from a pile ofthat started after Zendejas had two scores. The game started players with it to tie the gameJohnson been called for Midway through the period,kicked field goals of 32, 42 and out like a brawl -there were with three minutes left in theunsportsmanlike conduct for Houston drove from its own 4237 yards over a 4 1/2-minute five fights in the first quarter half.
taunting during a scuffle in to the Cincinnati 2. But Coachspan late in the third period alone. 
Darville says he 'never discussed' payments with Holtz 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -A payments to university footbaU asked prosecutor Pete Connors. Baylor, Tony Hunter and Andre problems and reported racial former University of Minnesota players began under Coach Joe "Yes," replied Darville. Gilbert, who testified earlier. tension between white and administrator testified Monday Salem and continued after "I can't reveal their names ... black athletes. 
"Who?" asked Connors.
that basketball coach Clem Holtz, currently at Notre Dame, because it would essentially "He had apparently asked for 
"Clem Haskins. I had to pay
Haskins knew of cash payments took over at Minnesota. affect their careers," Darville help," Darville said. "He
bills for his athletes," Darville
to players, but said he never "I didn't have to discuss it said. wanted the academic problems
replied.
discussed such payments with with him. Certain things were in After Connors asked him at dealt with. He was very
Earlier, Darville was asked by 
former Gophers football coach place," Darville said of Holtz. least twice more to provide concerned that harmony exist."
Lawton, "Was (Haskins) fully
Lou Holtz. Darville was asked by defense additional names from the Darville said he collected
aware you were providing
Luther Darville, on trial for attorney James Lawton if 1984 football team, Fitzgerald 
about $27,000 in cash for
financial assistance to his
allegedly stealing about Holtz, who left Minnesota in told Darville, "Sir, that is dormitory fees in the first yearplayers?"
$186,000 from the university 1985, had direct knowledge of appropriate information to of the summer program in
"Yes, he was," Darville
for his personal use, refused to the payments. disclose at this time." 1983 and did not deposit the
responded.
identify any current football or "I don't recall," Darville said. "Your honor, I cannot, sir," money in university accounts.
Asked by Connors whether he
basketball players who received "He did not give it and Darville said. Instead, he said, he kept it in
thought giving money to
money from him. encourage it directly .. . He Fitzgerald then asked jurors his desk. 
student-athletes violated NCAA
Darville has said he gave the didn't want to be involved in to leave the courtroom and
rules, Darville replied, "I was 
money to needy students and certain things," he said, Lawton and Darville also left to He said he later informed his
not fully aware of the NCAA
athletes at the behest of his adding, "He was very confer. When they returned, superiors, including Wilderson, 
rules. I didn't really think about 
superiors, including former cautious." Lawton, Connors and that he had not deposited the university Vice President Frank Holtz and Salem have denied it." Fitzgerald conferred privately money. Wilderson. Wilderson and other any knowledge of payments to The NCAA is awaiting the before Fitzgerald dismissed the university officials have denied athletes, as has Haskins. trial's outcome before deciding jury for the day and said the "He told me not to worry any knowledge of any Darville testified that he whether to penalize the trial would resume at 9:15 a.m. about it at the time. He told me payments. received about $186,000 university's athletic program. Tuesday. we'd decide what to do about it 
Darville headed the Office of dollars in cash payments for Fitzgerald temporarily halted Earlier Monday, Darville later on," Darville said. Later, 
Minority and Special Student dorm fees by minority students the trial late in the day after testified that he was assigned Darville said, "I was told, 'Let's 
Affairs until he was fired in attending a special orientation Connors asked Darville which to the university athletic office use some of this cash to help 
April 1988. lie told Hennepin program run by his office from members of the 1984 football for the first six months of 1984 the players with extra needs 
County District Court jurors 1983-87. team received cash payments because Holtz was concerned because we have to keep our 
Monday that a system of cash "Did the coaches know?" from him in addition to Valdez with academic and morale stars happy."' 

dedicated group, and theyNotre Dame Student Government improve every year," agreed
Irish
Intellectual Committee presents Murray. "I think that they'll 
continued from page 20 definitely have a stronger team next year." 
TUESDAY NOVEMBER 14 7:00p.m. 124 Hayes-Healy 

"The Arab-Israeli Conflict: APalestinian Perspective" Lecture given by Dr. Raj-ae Busailah, aPalestinian refugee born in Jerusalem. Dr. Busailah received his Ph.D from New York University and is now an English professor at Indiana University at Kokomo. 


UDENT 
ADWORKS
1989-~ 



The Observer Tuesday, November 14, 1989
page 18 
Lewis upsets Breen-Phillips 6-0; Howard beats Farley 14-8 in OT 
BY RICHARD MATHURIN result. with a 14-8 overtime opportunity as Becky Miller Sports Writer vie tory over Farley. scored her second Farley scored early in the touchdown on the first play 
Dnfending champion Lewis first quarter and added a from the five giving Howard seems to be peaking at thn two point conversion to take the thrilling win. perfect time as they upset an early 8-0 lead, but that "This was by far the best previously undefeated Breen would be all the offense they game by our offensive line Phillips 6-0 in a semifinal could muster. which made key blocks to set game of women's lnterhall Howard's Margaret Shane up our running game," said football. intercepted a pass at the ten Howard captain Kelly 
Lewis safety Michelle giving her team excellent Kolodziej. Firgon intercepted a pass field position. Running back The finals, to be played on and took it down near the Becky Miller ran up the Sunday at 1 p.m. at Notre goal line. The Chickens then middle for a touchdown and Dame Stadium, should prove failed to convert on the first with the two point to be a very interesting three downs. but on fourth conversion, the score was matchup since this is the and goal, Lynn Arnold ran in tied. first meeting of the season the winning score. Both teams had chances to between Lewis and Howard. 
"We worked on our man to win it in regulation, but both Predictably, both captains man coverage to stop their defenses held. This fact was indicated that they don't option and the defense really highlighted by a blocked field know what to expect from worked hard, which goal by Howard's Kathy the other. flustered them," said Lewis Keenan. "We know they're a captain Jill Beth Hayes on In overtime, Farley failed running team and our her team's winning strategy. to score on its two plays defensive is good at stopping 
In the other semifinal, from the five yard line. the run," said Kolodziej of Howard affirmed last week's Howard snatched the Howard. 
Jazz wins 106-93 over Bullets 
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) -Ledell Eackles led the Bullets quarter to close the gap to 79­Karl Malone had 33 points and with 24 points, but the Bullets' 70 with 9:45 remaining, but two leading scorers, Jeff that was as close as they got.
16 rebounds and John Stockton Malone and Bernard King. The Jazz scored the next fiveadded 30 points and 16 assists. 
finished with four and seven points and were not threatened
leading the Utah Jazz to a 106­93 victory over the Washington points. respectively. Malone again. 
averaged 27.5 points as the
Bullets Monday night. 
Bullets won five of their first The Jazz led 50-44 at the half six games, while King came in Malone scored 13 points in 
the first quarter as Utah took aas both teams shot poorly averaging 18 points. 
27-19 lead. The Bullets got as
during the first two quarters, but Utah outscored Utah led 79-63 after three close as 39-37 with 4:51 
Washington 16-7 to start the quarters as Stockton hit a 3-remaining before halftime as 
pointer at the buzzer. Eackles scored eight points.
second half for a 66-51 lead. 
But the Jazz then ran off nine Stockton had five points during 
The Bullets scored the first straight points, six by Malone,
the surge. Malone had four and Bob Hansen hit a 3-point shot. seven points of the fourth to push its lead to 11. 
Men's smimming wins over Bowling Green, women fall 
Tyson 
continued from page 20 
dmnise of higher education. 

It appears Tyson's intnrests are in business and physical education. Any business education Tyson receives eould not help him make more than he makes inside the squared circle, and I ean't see Tyson instructing a group of eighth­graders in a phys ed class in Wilberforce. 
!\ personal and moral victory. you say'? Mayb1~ I want to go I 0 rounds in the ring, but then again, I don't have millions of dollars for persuasion purposes. 
Buy an extnndnd calendar and put a mark on May 1995, the day Tyson may rnceive his degree if he completes a four­year program. 
That way you will also know 

thn day America finally goes 
down the drain. 
Fencing 
continued from page 20 

him to fence first. second or third in either weapon. That epee team is as formidable as any we have, especially if they make the sort of progress that I look for from them." 
The top finisher for the men's foil team was freshman Noel Young at fifth. Derek Holeman was also in the top ten while junior Phil Leary was close behind at eleventh. Senior captain Joel Clark and freshman Jeff Piper both advanced to the third round before being eliminated. 
In men's sabre, sophomore Ed Baguer led the way with a seventh-place finish just ahead of newcomer Jim Taliaferro, a Holy Cross Junior College transfer. Junior Dave Kirby came in at tenth by defeating Baguer's brother Chris, who settled for thirteenth with a solid outing. Senior Dan Yu rounded out the seoring at fourteenth. 
Next weekend the Irish will compete in their first dual-meet action as they travel to the University of Wisconsin at Madison. 
BY JANICE ARCHER 
Sports Writer 
The hard work and 
determination of the Notre 
Dame men's and women's 
swimming teams paid off well 
in Friday's meet at Bowling 
Green. Both teams put forth 
strong efforts, with the men 
overpowering their opponents 
and the women setting new 
University records. 
The men's team improved their record to 5-0 by defeating Bowling Green by a score of 129-90. Brian Rini earned two victories in the 1000-yard freestyle (:44.16) and the 200­yard butterfly with a time of 1:56.14. 
Other impressive performances were turned in by senior Bill Jackoboice, who won first place in the 50 freestyle (:22.1 0). Captain Tom Penn posted a victory in the 200-yard breaststroke with a time of 2:11.05. 
The 400-yard medley relay team of Tom Whowell, To'm Penn, Chuck Smith and Bill Jackoboice improved their time, taking the victory with a time of 3:55.39. 
Irish coach Tim Welsh was extremely pleased with his team's performance, saying, "We swam beautifully. This meet was important because it showed that we are considerably faster than we were three weeks ago." 
The women's team also turned in excellent performances against the Falcons on Friday, just missing the victory by a score of 151­149. 
The squad broke four 
Hoops 
continued from page 20 
enough to overtake the 
Bulgarians. 
Evladia Slavtsheva scored 20 
points for the visitors and a 
combined 30 from teammates 
Polina Tzekova and Mariana 
Tshobanova squelched any 
hopes of an Irish comeback. 
Sporadic bursts of scoring 
from the Bulgarians answered 
all Irish buckets and clock­
stopping free throws negatnd 
three-point shots from 

University reeords during the 
meet. 
Shana Stephens, Beeky Wood. 
Tanya Williams and Christy 
Van Patten eombined to set a 
new reeord in the 400-yard 
medley relay by posting a time 
of 4:00.76. 
Talented freshman Tanya 
Williams set two new Notre 
Dame records in the 200 
butterfly (2:04.73) and the 400 
individual medley (4:28.73). 
Becky Wood tied her own 
record in the 100-yard 
breaststroke with a time of 
1:07.19. 
Although the women's record fell to 4-1, Coach Welsh commented, "We lost only if you look at the score. We turned in an outstanding performance, and I am delighted with the way we swam." 
The Irish won 10 of the 16 
events,. posting season-best 
times in every event. 
Both the men's and women's teams are looking forward to events this weekend. They will travel to Wisconsin-Milwaukee this Friday, with the men's meet at 4 p.m. and the women's at 6 p.m. Along with host Wisconsin-Milwaukee, the women will be battling Northern Michigan. On Saturday, the men will return home to host Loyola in the Rolfs Aquatic Center at 5 p.m. 
The swimmers are gearing for the National Catholic Championships in December. The back to back meets for the men will allow the team to measure their progress and for the important upcoming contest. 
Hobinson and Liebscher in the waning minut1~s of the' game. 
"I think the game helped us because it showed us what we need to work on," Hobinson said. "But it seemed like we didn't start to get serious about coming baek until the end and then it was too late because we had to keep fouling them to stop the clock. 
"We have to concentrate on our defense and our rebounding and put mon~ pressure on our opponents, but despite the loss, we can turn this into a learning experience." 
JACC COURT RESERVATIONS IMPORTANT 
THE FOLLOWING PROCEDURES WILL BE USED IN ACCEPTING BASKETBALL & VOLLEYBALLCOURT RESERVATIONS FOR THE JACC: 
1. 
Requests must be submitted on the "Court Reservation Form" available at NVA. 

2. 
Requests will be accepted starting at 9:00am Novembe; 1. 

3. 
Requests will not be accepted after 5:00pm November 15. 

4. 
Failure to use allotted time on two occasions will lead to cancellation of remaining schedule. 

5. 
All reservations must start and end on the hour assigned. 

6. 
After November 20, weekly reservations may be allowed if time is available. 

7. 
Reservation requests must be submitted to the Non-Varsity Athletics office. 


NON-VARSITY ATHLETICS 

CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Tuesday 
3:30 p.m. Lecture: "Modeling and Control of Emulsion Polymerization Reactors," Prof. Massimo Morbidelli, Di­partimento di Ingegneria Chimica e Materiali, Universita di Cagliari, Italy, Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineer­ing. Refreshments at 3 p.m., Room 181. Sponsored by the Dept. of Chemical Engineering. 
4 p.m. Lecture: "After the Cold War-What?" given by Seyom Brown, professor and chair of the politics depart­ment at Brandeis University and associate at Harvard's Center for International Affairs, Room 121 in the Law School. 
4:30 p.m. Lecture: "Sexual Dimorphism in Amphibian Brain and Behavior," Dr. Sunny Boyd, Dept. of Biological Sciences. Galvin Life Science Auditorium. 
7 p.m. Presentation/reception for A&L and BBA students interested in discovering career opportunities with the First Scholar Program with First National Bank of Chicago in the Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn. 
7 p.m. The Arab-Israeli Conflict: A Palestinian Perspec­tive by Dr. Raj-ae Busailah, Indiana U. at Kokomo, Room 124 Hayes-Healy. Sponsored by Intellectual Life Commis­sion. 
7 p.m. Film: "The Criminal Code" Annenberg Auditorium. 
7:30 p.m. Lecture: "Post Communist Society in Historical Perspective" Charles Gati, Union College. Loftus Audito­rium. 
9 p.m. Film: "To Have and Have Not," Annenberg Audi­torium. 
MENUS Notre Dame 

Beef Stew/Biscuit Sea Strips Three Cheese Croissant Chicken Romano 
ACROSS 1 Layer of felt 5 Small stream 10 New York street 14 Brainstorm, in Brest 15 Person born on Oct. 3, e.g. 16 Hodgepodge 17 Comics 20 More wrathful 21 Spirit of Saint Louis 22 Type of shirt 23 With 59 Across, Iowa city 24 Jacob's first wife 26 Entirely 
28 Adefendant, in law: Abbr. 29 Encircle, as with a lei 33 Exert influence over 36 Humorous suffix with switch 38 Sesame 39 Comics 42 Sandwich filler 43 Eye, to Pierre 44 W. German state 45 Programs for committees 47 Cupid 49 Comic Caesar 50 Stainer 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~~··· 
,.=! 
lilil-:::-t=t:=:i 
~:+:-+:=:-4 ::+:~+=-! 
,;,;,o,;,-.....;;;;~ 



51 "-Gota Secret" 54 Refuge 57 Being, to Brutus 59 See 23 Across 61 Comic from Dayton 64 Mimicked 65 Sahara filling station 66-dixit 67 Comic-singer Jerry 68 Songbirds 69 British gun 
DOWN 
1 Forked 2 Love very much 3 Where Rangers 
range 4 Subject for a sermon 5 Family of a memorable 
18 Mont.'s capital 34 Iron horse's 51 Awkward snort
British comic 19 Printer's word 52 Poetry
· 6 Tear 
35 Shoe size
25 Summits 53 W. German city
7 Witchcraft in the 
37 Stat for 
54 Slightly open

West Indies 27 Shaping tools 
Strawberry 
55 Lasso

8 Algerian city 28 St. Paul's book 40 Performance on 
56 Leg joint

a troupe's tour
9 Kind of court 29 Comedienne JoAnne 41 Radioactive 
58 European coal 

10 c:1inese skillet 
isotope basin 
30 English river

11 Came down 46 Lose weight, 60 Gleason's "How 
31 ToweIword

12 "I Walk the hopefully sweet-!" -,"Cash hit 32 Otherwise 48 Lax in duty 62 Find the sum 13 Theater section 33"-boy!" 50 Stupid 63 Conquer 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

II· Ill 

··-y 
". 
fo 1_ 
h..t\j~­
1 
I 

E~E~ If' I TR'i TO J\ltJ.P \0 10\I'D T\\1~1( 1\-11'5 'riOO\.D BE 1\MtJ\... N0\1\\NG-ElSE FELL THE FLOOR, I LJ>.~D ~CK ~E T1PE ~ 1\41NG 'ri~'l) I.EARtt UP. JUS\ t-'\E. nils IS ON 11\E. CEILING! 1-A.'i A~IJT I~ SC.I£1'\.CE CV•S'S, 
'IERi 'S\RM~GE . I£RS~P..l GAA'lli'l 111\JS\ BUT~. Wt. LE~ f'S~I.JT 1-\P..'-JE llE.~tR~D Pel~IT'(! C.\RRIJS cu::>IJt>S. 
WILBUR AND WENDEL JAY HOSLER 
"Blast! Up to now, the rhino was one of my prime suspects." 


i• • tm~ i• • 
: 1(>tJI~Hr A-r'1~COPM €! IHS'Wee~ : 
: ~M DN ~-..pg. I'IZD.&.SIU ~ ~rtp&S : : -ON N(:) 'S~ 0\fll~ : 
• STUDENT UNION BOARD • 
: AtJ"'~ PArtm•rAnoN tS wst.COMeP ~ -NGWM'tJiP! : 
Sports 
Tuesday, November 14, 1989 
a e 20 

ND women's basketball falls to Bulgarian's in exhibition 

Robinson, Liebscher combine for 46 
BY MOLLY MAHONEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The Bulgarian women's national team arriwd in .Joyce ACC Saturday sporting some rather unique, tight silky red uniforms that lookml as if the squad had borrowed tlwm from some 1970s jogging fanatics. 
But perhaps the Bulgarians were more coneerned with their play than their appearanen. 
That semnPd to be the cast> as thny outlastf'd thP Notr!' Dame women's basketball tmun 78-73 down the horne stretch. 
The Irish. who lost two post players, senior Annie Schwartz and freshman Dionne Smith to knllf\ injuries, had their work cut out for them on the boards. as only 6'1 sophomore Margaret Nowlin and 6' 5 freshman Majenica Hupe Wf're left to battle a Bulgarian squad that sported live players over six feet. 
"It was evident that WI\ are weak in the post and in rebounding." Irish head coach MufTet McGraw said. "With Dionne and Annie out with injuries, we're going to have to tighten up our perimeter defense and hope that Margaret Nowlin and Majenica Rupe mature quickly. 
"We haven't necessarily been training since Oct. 1 5 to play Bulgaria, but I wanted us to look better in spots. Some good things came of the game, but we have a lot of work to do before we open our season at the Central Florida Classic." 
Despite McGraw's pessimism about her rather small squad's play in the paint, the Irish. lead by Krissi Davis and Sara Liebscher's combined 13 rebounds, actually held a slight 35-34 advantage over the Bulgarians. 
Will Tyson hit books as hard as his foes? 
Last spring, Central State University announced a decision to give heavyweight boxing champion Mike Tyson an honorary doctorate in the 
humanities.  thnreby  permanently  
disgracing itself as  an  institution of  
higher learning.  

Now it seems the small college in Wilberforce, Ohio, is going to assist Tyson in earning a real degree. The 
school will tutor, instruct and maybe cheat for him in order to reach this goal. 

Greg Guffey 

Assistant Sports Editor --------­
This is Mike Tyson, the man who upon receiving the honorary doctoratH said, "I don't know what kind of doctor I am. But watching all these beautiful sisters here...I'm debating whethHr I should be a gynecologist." 
This is Mike Tyson. the man who dropped out of public education in the seventh grade to spend some time battling the law and then made a career of pounding helpless opponents. wives and mother-in-laws. 
Evidently, during a break in counting his millions and being pulled over by the police, Tyson realized the importance of higher education. Maybe an educated heavyweight champion might make more than $71 million ovHr two years. 
The plan calls for Tyson to spend a year in a precollege program. where he will be assisted in textbook and computer instruction. If he successfully completes those studiHs, he could enroll at Central State with the freshman class of 1991. 
Don't look for Tyson in the dormitory. lie will be on campus only from time to time, probably to pose for some television and print reporters at enrollment and then to pick up his diploma. The remainder of the instruction will be taken to Tyson. 
I can see it now. BPtween rounds of a title fight with Evander llolyliPid, a television microphone picks up Tyson mumbling. "F=ma." Or most likely, "Tomorrow, I'm going to start my multiplication tables." 
I just can't imagine Tyson sitting in front of a Macintosh working on some type of paper. Or spending time in the library eolle1~ting research for a project. 
It seems manager and promoter Don King was all in favor of Tyson returning to college. This is Don King, the man who graduated many moons ago with a master's degree from beautician's school and flirted with the idea of opening the Don King llair Academy. 
No one really knows why Tyson chose Central State, or better yet, why Central State would even allow him to enter. Maybe Central State is in need of some publicity. But the publicity that follows Tyson is usually negative. 
If anyone has ever been turned down for admission to Central State, he or she should sue the school, the educational system and America in general. Central State has created a new starting point for talking about the 
see TYSON I page 18 

ints in Irish loss 
Nowlin grabbed a team-high 
eight rebounds and her taller 
understudy Hupe added four in 
her first 20 minutes of 
collegiate play. 

Both teams seemed trapped 
in a stupor at the start of the 
first half. but the Bulgarians 
finally broke the scoreless tie 
after more than three minutes 
of play and numerous 
unsuccessful trips down court. 
The score was tied live times 
in the first half alone, including 
took into the lockerroom at 
halftime. 

Notre Dame seemed stymied offensively throughout what proved to be a see-saw battle with the Bulgarian team, but it's floor general. junior point guard Karen Robinson tossed in 16 points in the lirst half, en route to a 25-point performance, to keep the Irish in contention. 
Liebscher provided a much­needed late surge in hopes of giving the Irish their first lead of the second half. but her 21 points were not enough, as the Irish could not creep close Senior sharpshooter Lisa Kuhns contributed six points to Notre 
see HOOPS 1page 18 Dame's losing effort Saturday against the Bulgarian women's national 
team. The Irish fell 78-73 in the exhibition game. 
Women's cross country bows out 
Nusrala first Irish ·harrier to cross finish line in last race 
BY BARBARA MORAN 
Sports Writer 

The women's cross country team ended its season last weekend with a 17th place finish in the NCAA district meet. 
Indiana University took first place in the competitive 26­team field with a score of 56, far ahead of second place finisher Minnesota, which scored a total of 102 points. Michelle Bekkers of Indiana 

Lucy Nusrala

took the top individual honors. crossing the finish line in 76th with a time of 19:04.8. 
16:47.4. Irish coach Tim Connelly was 
The Irish finished near the pleased with his team's overall middle of the pack, scoring 401 performance, and praised the points and placing only one strong running of his two top runner, Lucy Nusrala, in the finishers. top 75. Nusrala, who has led "The results were about what the Irish all season, placed 38th I expected," said the coach, with a time of 18:35.8. The "there was a lot of quality in second finisher for Notre Dame the field -it was a really was Jenny Ledrick, who placed competitive meet. We had a couple kids who eould have run a little better, but overall it was about what we expt~etnd. 
"The race was probably Lucy's best of the year, and it was definitely Jenny Ledriek's best race of the year. Sht>'s a talented kid -she just needs to learn to compete a little better." 
Both Connelly and senior captain Wendy Murray were hopeful and optimistic about the team's chances in future seasons. Murray will be the only runner lost to graduation, so the Irish will bngin the next season with a full slate of veteran eompt\titors. 
"Hopefully the girls will put a lot of training in over the winter and next summer, " said Connelly. "and we'll continue to improve like we did this year." 
"The team is a really 
see IRISH I page 17 
ND fencers shine in season opener 
BY CHRIS FILLIO 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame's fencing teams opened up the 1989-90 season this weekend with an impressive performance at the 
Penn  State  Garret  Open  at  
University Park, Pa.  
With  over  fifty  schools  

competing, the Irish got top finishes from the men's epee and women's foil teams. both placing first in their respective weapon. 
"The results were even a little better than I expected, so for that I'm quite happy," said head coach Mike DeCicco. "I want to view this as being a positive sign of where we'll need to go from here in order to reach championship quality. I'm optimistic enough to think that we're off on the right foot." 
Following a year off in the French foreign study program, senior captain Anne Barreda wasted no time in alerting the competition of her return, garnering top honors in women's foil. 
Barreda narrowly edged out teammate and sixth-place finisher Kristin Kralicek in an earlier bout. Sophomore lleidi Piper turned an excellent performance as well with her third-place finish. 
"It was the best day of fencing of my life," said Piper. a native Australian. "I felt like I was really fencing consistently." 
Junior Lynn Kadri came in at sixteenth while sophomore Tara Kelly placed eighteenth and Mary Westrick was tied at thirty-ninth, as the Irish women defeated strong bids by Temple, Columbia, Penn State, and Farleigh Dickinson. 
"The women are certainly right where we thought they would be, " said DeCicco, "And the one pleasant result was Anne Barreda." 

The other top Irish performance eanw from sophomore epeeist David Calderhead, who literally destroyed all comers in dropping only one match on his way to a first-place finish. 
Classmate Jubba Bnshin was impressive in his first competition for the Irish. coming in at thirteenth. Derek Holeman was eighteenth in his initial epee appearance following his jump from foil, though he will continue in both weapons. Geofl' Pechinsky had a respectable placing at twenty­eighth, while Ben Finley was fifty-sixth. 
"Derek is happy with his performance, but with me it's a different story," stated DeCicco regarding Holeman's first epee competition. "I'll always expect 
see FENCING I page 18 



