
I 

, ( . 

--c,
ost15 1:::: · 
SPECIAL 
HESBURGH 

IN NOIRE DAME

VOL. XXII, N0.109 FRIDAY, MARCH 31, 1989 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s 
Tanker capt. fired 
Was drunk at mishap 
Associated Press 
VALDEZ, Alaska-The captain of the 
oil tanker Exxon Valdez was fired 
Thursday following a federal investiga­
tion that determined he was legally 
drunk around the time his ship ran 
aground, causing the nation's worst oil 
spill. 
The National Transportation Safety Board said Capt. Joseph Hazelwood, who had turned over command of the Exxon Valdez to an unqualified third mate before the accident, had a blood­alcohol level of .061 when he was tested nine hours later. 
That exceeds the standard of in­toxication under federal law for oper­ating a commercial vessel at sea, which is .04 percent, according to William Woody, who headed a four-member NTSB team investigating the tanker ac­cident. 
Shortly after the NTSB announce­ment, Exxon Shipping Co. announced it was firing Hazelwood, who has been convicted twice for drunken driving. 
Maximum criminal penalties for operating a ship while intoxicated in­clude a $5,000 fine and up to a year in jail, Coast Guard authorities said. In addition, violators face the loss of their seaman's license and up to $1,000 in civil penalties. 
The NTSB investigation found no in­dications of drinking by the third mate who was piloting the ship without cer­
see TANKER, page 7 The Observer I Scott McCann pilots. Those students who had the "right stuff" were encouraged to enter a summer training program. 


students test flights in an effort to recruit potential Marine Corps 

Marines take students on ride above campus 
By JOHN O'BRIEN on Tuesday, March 21 and Wednes­"If you can fly this plane, you can Senior Staff Reporter day, March 22 at Michiana Regional fly anything,'' joked Mitter. Airport. Although a military career is "The plane rides are for the person 
The United States Marine Corps not in my future, the Marines gave who thinks he wants to be a pilot," came to Notre Dame last week to me a plane ride, too. said Mitter, "It gives them a chance recruit pilots by giving students a The plane used for these flights was to get behind the controls of a plane chance to fly. a two-seat T-34B Mentor, a fully and see what flying is really like." 
The plane rides are part of the acrobatic flight trainer that was used According to Mitter, those students Marine Corps Flight Orientation Pro­primarily in the 1950s, according to who have an interest in being a Marine gram, an effort to recruit potential Capt. Mark Mitter of the Marine Corps Marine Corps pilots. They were given Selection Office in Chicago. see PLANE, page 6 

Report ranks NO library 74th out of 105 research libraries 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Senior Staff Reporter 
In a recent report compiled by the Association of Research Libraries, Notre Dame's li­brary was rated 74 in a group of 105 research libraries in the United States and Canada. 
The report showed that Notre Dame's total library expendi­tures for 1987-88 were $6,208,325 million. According to the report only five schools had total ex­penditures less than Notre Dame's. 
Notre Dame's library staff for 1987-88' was 190. Only 14 other schools had fewer mem­bers on their library staff. 
The library reported a collec­tion of 1,869,717 volumes. An­other figure on the report was the added volumes during the year. Notre Dame's library added 72,403 volumes during 1987-88. 
The rating, or index number, is close to meaningless, said Robert Miller, director of Uni­versity libraries. The formula that is used to derive the index number is so complicated that it is not published with the report, said Miller. cording to Miller. 
The major flaw with a rating "We're concerned less with such as this is that it does not the numerical rating than with take into account how well the how well we're meeting every-
library is addressing the needs of the faculty and students, ac-see 'BRARE, page 8 
How the 'Brares Check Out 
1987-88 Holdings of Research Libraries in U.S. and Canada 
Volumes Volumes Current Total Total University Rank* If)library added serials staff expenciitures Harvard U. 1 11,496,906 313,922 102,000 1,049 $37,196,490 
U. of California at Los Angeles 2 5,812,163 207,140 94.757 711 28,447,376 
U. of California at 
BerkE!IE!Y. . . .. ....~ 7.t9QJ~Z1 .. 1~5.01~.. . 9a.e§1 ?4Q .. Z7.544.. 19~ . YaleU. 4 8,538,156 156,767 56,046 868 25,783,700 
U. of Illinois at 
Urbana-Champaign 5 7,377,051 189,222 92,530 536 16,337,081 Stanford U 6 5,740,162 161 .451 54,781 618 26,692,650 
U. of Toronto 7 . 5.696.275. 166.792 ...31.42~L 830 _21.2tm~6SZ. __ 
U. of Texas 8 5,888,776 141,903 79,392 586 17,582,447 Columbia U 9 5,740,832 140,135 58,516 631 21,910,292 
U. of Michigan 10 6,133,171 130,358 67,530 595 20,472,160 
How others stack up 

Indiana U  21  4,011,675  103,316  26,684  467  $12,608,425  
Michigan State U.  34  3,301,739  116,564  29,556  331  11,516,556  
Purdue U.  56  ....  lJJl4.P65  7~.415  ..  ?1..®6  268  ....  7.96~.1:!03  
U. of Notre Dame  74  1,869,717  72,403  15,559  190  6,208,325  
U. of Miami  74  1,615,442  50.961  15,570  241  8,368,445  

• Based on an inde• developed by the Associabon of Research Libranes to measure the relative sae of university libraries. The inde• takes into account the number of volumes held. number of volumes added during the prevoous fiscal year. number of current senaiS. total e<pend~ures. and srze of staff. 
Source: Association of Research Libraries The Observer 
NORTHEAST NEIGHBORS? 
ND will not oppose Northeast rezoning 
Top 10 University Libraries 

By KENDRA MORRILL  said.  
Senior Staff Reporter  The rezoning of the area  
into single-family  
Editor's note: This is the  residences was an action  
third in a three-part series.  taken by the residents of the  
The University adminis­ neighborhood and not by the  
tration will not take action  University, said Doran. To  
to change the Northeast  accomplish the rezoning the  
Neighborhood zoning back  residents followed the  
to multi-family residences,  proper local government  
despite the recent protests of  procedures required, he  
Notre Dame's student gov­ said.  
ernment, according to  "For (the new zoning or­ 
Patrick Doran, assistant  dinance) to change, the  
director of Residence Life.  same procedures would  
Student government has  have to be followed," Doran  
planned "no definite action"  said. "We would need the  
to oppose the rezoning yet,  neighborhood's support.''  
according to Matt Breslin,  "To my knowledge, the  
new student body president.  University has no plans to  
"The most important  go out and .solicit support  
thing is that students have a  from the neighborhood to go  
chance to live in the North­ back to the Common Council  
east Neighborhood,'' Breslin  and change the zoning back  
said. "If not, then we'll take  to the way it used to be," he  
action."  said.  
Breslin and David  ''What occurred was a  
Kinkopf, student body vice  legitimate action taken by  
president, will go to the  the people in the Northeast  
Neighborhood Housing Ser­ Neighborhood," said Doran.  
vice to discuss what effects  The residents didn't subvert  
the rezoning will have on stu­ 
dents in the long run, Breslin  see ZONE, page 8  






page 2 
IN BRIEF 
Michael Stone breaker,whopleadedguiltytodriving under the influence, was sentenced Thursday. His driver's license has been suspended for 120 days, and he must pay a $465 fine. He also must do 80 hours of community service and enroll in an alcohol treatment program at Notre Dame. The maximum penalty is a $5,000 fine and a year in jail. 
-The Observer. 


OF INTEREST 
Logan Center Campout will be this Saturday and Sunday at Camp Eberhart, Michigan. Volunteers will leave Logan enter at 9:30a.m. Saturday and return 3 p.m. Sunday. If interested, call Jim at 283-3795 or Karen at 283-4950. 
-The Observer 

A French Mass will be offered by Fr. Andre Leveille on Sunday, April 2 at 4:30 p.m. at Alumni Hall Chapel. 
-The Observer 

Dayli2ht Savings Time begins this weekend. Most areas oi the country will set their clocks ahead an hour at 2 a.m. Sunday morning, but South Bend will·not. South Bend will be at the same time as tbe Central Time Zone, and one hour behind Eastern Time Zone. -The Observer. 
The NO Porn Pon Squad will hold its first clinic for the 1989-90 tryouts on Sunday, April2 in Gym 1 of the J ACC from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m .. For more information call Lisa at x4304 or Julie at x4231. 
-The Observer 

Last Day to Spend Club Money is Friday, April 21 for all campus clubs and organizations with no excep­tions. For questions, call 239-7417 between 12-4 p.m. daily or stop by the student government treasurer's office. 
-The Observer 

POW/MIA Vigil at the Grotto will be held Sunday, April2 from 8 a.m.-8 p.m., followed by a procession to the 
War Memorial for a candlelight service. 
-The Observer 

NDE 4th Day will gather today at 4:30p.m. in the Log Chapel to pray for NDE £9, and is sponsoring a mini-retreat for all past NDE participants on Sunday from 12:30-3 p.m. at Walsh Chapel. 
-The Observer 

The "Technical Review" Staff is now taking applications for anyone interested in being assistant managing editor. Leave your name and other relevant information in the engineering student center by Tuesday, April 4. 
-The Observer 

A Catholic Relief Services representative will be speaking at 4 p.m. today in 141 Decio on "How Our Actions Affect the Third World. 
-The Observer 

Senior Class Service Project needs seniors to help serve dinner at the Shelter for the Homeless. If interested call the Senior Class Office at 239-5136. 
-The Observer 

Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general ihterest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 

Design Edito,.. .................. Chris Labaree Etc. Copy EditOt's ............... Mike Restle Design Aui.ftant . . . . . . . .. Beth Peterson ........................................... Missy Irving Typesetten . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Molly Schwartz Etc. Designer.....>•..•••••.•••••.... Tim Irvine ............................................ Dan Towers Typists................................. Sue Barton News Editof" ....................... Tim O'Keefe ............................................ Rosi Lozada 
Copy Edito,.. ................... John O'Brien ND Day Editor ................ Betsy Mennell Sports Copy Edit01' ............ Frank Pastor SMC Day Editor ............. Alissa Murphy Viewpoint Layout .......... Tricia Grohman Photographer ...... Catherine McMenamin Etc. Edit01' ................... Robyn Simmons 
nt <*all •• (USPS 599 l-4000) is published Monday tbroqh Friday cacq~~ dw'iaa cum and v.catioa periods. 'Be Oks ..is published by the students or the Uaivcnicy or Notre DuDe and Saint Mary'l Collep. Subsaiptionl may be purchu­ed ror S40 per year~ per ICIIICI1Cr) by writiaa ne Oll•n,•. P.O. Boll Q, Noue Dulc, IDdiaDII 46556. 
n.oa I •• is • member or n. ~.._. AU reproduction riabtJ ue 
raened.. 

. -. -. . . . . .-... . . .
~ ~ 
page 3

Friday, March 31, 1989 The Observer 



London program will be only flats 
By SARAH VOIGT Senior Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame London Pro­gram has rented two new build­ings of flats (apartments) for the 1989 and 1990 academic years in an attempt to improve the living accomodations of London students. 
According to London Pro­gram Director Anastasia Gut­ting, the Program has ex~teri­mented with different combinations of living ar­rangements in the past. Over the last few years the Univer­sity has housed about fifty stu­dents in the West Two Hotel and the remaining thirty in a building of flats about four blocks away. 
Gutting said that greater living space and more privacy are a few of the advantages to life in the flats as opposed to hotel life. "Each flat houses six or seven people and each has its own private bathroom, kitchen and living area. There is less crowding in the flats than in the hotel,'' said Gutting. 
The students living in the hotel, on the other hand, share coeducational bathrooms that are located outside of the rooms, said Gutting. The hotel only has one kitchen with three stoves for student use. 
Gutting cites a future ac­quisition as another reason for the switch in living accomoda­tions. "It is conceivable that the University will buy resident space sometime in the future. In that event we want to experi­ment so that we will do the right thing. However, it is all highly speculative.'' 
Which living arrangement do students prefer? Gutting said, "I have found that whatever students have (to live in) they love best." 
Paul Gleixner, a hotel resi­dent for the 1988 Fall Semester, said, "The close quarters forced us to interact with each other every day and promoted a more communal spirit. It brought people closer." 
Theresa Loomis liked the coeducational aspect of hotel life. "It broke down stereotypes (of members of the opposite sex) so that you got to know people much better. Now if we were offered the option, I would definately move to a coed dorm," Loomis said. 
Jennifer Buehler preferred the flat that she lived in during the 1988 Fall semester. She said, ''I liked the sense of privacy in the flat. We also had better bathroom facilities than the hotel did. I think that the move to all flats would be a change for the better because it would promote more unity among all of the London stu­dents." 
Wish your friends a happy birthday with Observer jMt. advertising. )lMt 
~ Call 239-6900 ~ 
~··········~~~~-i'l~i"c:il'i""""""""""~ ~ FRESHMEN & ~ 
• 



~ SOPHOMORES 
•
:DEPARTMENT PRESENTATIONS:
• 
: Sunday 4t2 5-6 CAPP 104 O'Shaughnessy: •
: 6-7 Hesburgh Program 104 O'Shaughnessy:
• 
: 7-8 Sociology 215 O'Shaughnessy:
• 
~

•
• 

Fine Irish Imports 





OBUD hopes to increase job's scope beyond just elections 
1-­
I 

Fighting fires in Beirut 
Black smoke rises from shelled fuel tanks as a 
fire engine attempts to get to the scene, Thursday, 
at Dora's depot in Christian East Beirut. The fuel 
tanks were hit by rockets during battles between 
Specialists in Irish Claddagh Jewelry, Irish Music, Videos, Glassware, Heraldic Items, Books, Sweatshirts, Baby Gifts, Windsocks, Key Chains, Sweaters, Food, Crafts, Irish Linen, Perfumes. Call in and see our Little Irish Superstore at: Univ. Park Mall 
2 


By FLORENTINE HOELKER Senior Staff Reporter 
Although the Ombudsman committee has encountered trouble several times this year in its operations, it has the po­tential of becoming a more in­fluential and functional organi­zation, according to . Victor DeFrancis, a member of the OBUD executive committee. 
In fact, OBUD was a much more powerful organization in the 70's, said DeFrancis. In the 70's, OBUD was in charge of many student activities, in­cluding pep rallies, and was considered the "eyes and ears of campus,'' he said. 
OBUD even had an informa­tion line available, serving as 


AP Photo 

Christian units of the Lebanese Army and Syrian gunners. Since clashes began March 8, 123 people have been killed and 388 have been wounded in the capital. 
a centralized info center for students, but in the early 80's the organization fell apart due to conflicts with student senate, said DeFrancis. 
Its duties were then assim­ilated by other campus organ­izations like the Student Union Board. 
"Right now we're trying to rejuvenate OBUD so that it is somewhat of its old self, more than merely an election­running committee," DeFrancis said. 
"OBUD is a tremendous un­tapped resource of the existing system. As we're already an es­tablished office, student gov­ernment should look to us to help in areas where improve­ment is needed." 
A little-known fact is that OBUD is not a direct depart­ment of student government, said DeFrancis. OBUD is technically separate from stu­dent government, and can operate separately from it. 
"OBUD needs to find its niche," DeFrancis said. "It's not like we would jump into other organizations with a bag and snatch away some of their duties and functions.'' 
"But there are always areas where improvement is needed," he said. "We hope to receive more cooperation with the next adminstration so that we can gradually become re­established." 
DeFrancis believes that un­less OBUD becomes more like its former self, it will no longer be necessary to maintain the existence of the organization. 
"OBUD cannot exist solely as an election committee,'' DeFrancis said. "It is difficult to do an adequate job of run­ning elections when we are only together part of the year, when the lines of communication aren't open the whole year.'' 
"If we don't see cooperation within the next few years (with student government), I don't see why it would be necessary to keep the organization going," he said. 
''The same job could be done by the senate or by the judicial board," DeFrancis said. 
Another problem is the image OBUD has on campus. ''People see us as a sort of 'campus police' who enforce the rules of campaigning, like poster size and campaign dead­lines," said DeFrancis, "but OBUD has the potential to be much more than that." 

APPLICATIONS ARE NOW AVAILABLE 
FOR 
LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER STUDENT EMPLOYEES 
RECRUITMENT & INFORMATION NIGHT 
MONDAY, APRIL 3, 7pm-8pm, DOOLEY ROOM, 3RD FLOOR 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE 
Building Supervisors 
Information Desk 
LaFortune Box Office 
Recreation Room 
Sound Technicians 
The present staff will be available April 3 to 
answer any questions for interested students. Applications will be accepted that night. Final application deadline will be APRIL 14. Applications should be returned to the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune Student Center. 

The Observer Friday, March 31, 1989 
Siegfried Hall dedication will 

J. include mass and blessing 
Associated Press 

Prison bus 
In Guatemala, a national police officer checks a bus loaded with inmates of Pavon prison, who escaped from fellow prisoners who seized the facility. About 100 heavily armed rebellious inmates remained inside with 1 ,800 others. 
US asks USSR to limit arms in Latin America 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Secretary of State James Baker appealed to the Soviet Union today to limit its export of arms and ideology to Latin America. 
"We are looking for signs of new thinking," Baker said. "The Soviet Union now has an opportunity to demonstrate it in Central America." 
Baker's appeal was in a speech prepared for a confer­ence in Atlanta hosted by former Presidents Carter and Ford. 
Baker said the Bush admin­istration was committed to work with leaders of the hemis­pheric democracies to promote political solutions to armed conflicts. 
He cited as an example last week's accord with Congress providing aid for Nicaraguan Contra rebels and support for regional peace efforts. 


FREE 

TANNING 


Mishawaka Indian Ridge Plaza (Next to Venture) Hours: Daily 9-B Grape Rd. Sat. 9-6 2n-7946 Sun. 11-5 
However, Baker said, "the United States will never sup­port a paper agreement that sells out the Nicaraguan people's right to be free." Nor, he said, "should any other democracy in this hemi­sphere." 
Directing his remarks to the Soviet Union and others who support the Marxist govern­ment in Nicaragua, Baker said: ''we must send a clear message to others outside this hemisphere: this is not a dum­ping ground for their arms or their failed ideology.'' 
Baker made no direct refer­ence to the military aid the United States gave given to the Contras in their attempt to overthrow the Sandinista gov­ernment in Managua before Congress ordered a cut-off. 
He said the United States supports dialogue between the two sides. 
--~----------~~--------------------~ 
Summet~ 




STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW 1683·19591 
•VERY 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

• 
APPRO X 21!2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALLDAY SUND.-\ Y 


Master Mini Warehouses 
P.O. BOX 100 NILES. MICHIGAN 49120 
"BEST UTILE STORE-HOUSE IN MICHIANA" 
By MAURA KRAUSE Staff Reporter 
A mass and hall blessing will mark the official dedication of Siegfried Hall this Saturday. 
The Siegfried family, whose 5 million dollar gift went towards building the new dor­mitory, will be honored through various events all day Saturday. 
A mass for the family, their friends, officers of the Univer­sity and representatives from the board of trustees will be cel­ebrated by University Presi­dent Fr. Edward Malloy. After the mass, Malloy will bless the dorm and the dedication plaque. "This dedication is more than anything for the blessing of the dorm," said 

Two youths on moped arrested 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Two officers who were Senior Staff Reporter patrolling the main gate stopped the two youths after 
Notre Dame Security ap-they almost collided with a prehended two youths for Transpo bus near the main riding a moped recklessly on circle, said Johnson. campus on Tuesday. The officers noticed a broken 
The youths will be charged ignition and questioned the with possession of stolen prop-youths about how they got the erty, said Phillip Johnson, as-moped, said Johnson. "The sistant director of security. The youths could not explain how red Honda Esprit was stolen they got the moped," said from the city of South Bend, Johnson. said Johnson. Johnson said that initial in-


Chileans remember dead 

Opponents of Chile's right-wing military govern-ful protest, which marked the fourth anniversary of ment stand behind life-size silhouettes symbolizing the kidnap and throat-slashing deaths of three murdered leftists Wednesday in downtown San-communists, Manuel Guerrero, Manuel Parada tiago. About 100 people participated in the peace-and Santiago Nattino. 

FREE TANNING 
with every Purchase! 
FOR AVERY UMITED nME! 
(WITH THIS AD) 
FOR DEYAILS ••• 
~ 
stop in to see our salon, or call us at ... 
272·7653 



~,...,..._....,. 
University Commons, St. Rd. 23, South Bend, ln. 
Lisa Hewitt, student chairper­son for the event. · 
A dedication luncheon will be held by the residents of the hall, "to show how much we appre­ciate the Siegfrieds. It's our way of saying thank you," said Hewitt. ''The theme of the lunch is 'Oklahoma' because the Siegfrieds are from Tulsa. It is informal with about 225 guests including the women who live in the new dormitory," said Hewitt. The luncheon will also include a slide show presentation by the women of the hall featuring events of the year. Photographs from the construction of the hall, fresh­men orientation and the hall's first SYR will be shown. 
A reception and dedication dinner in the Concourse and 
Monogram Room of the JACC will end the activities. The din­ner is for the Siegfrieds and their friends. 
Robert and Raymond Siegfried, whose gift built the hall, are both graduates of Notre Dame. Robert Siegfried, chairman o'f R.H. Siegfried, In­c., oil and gas producers, graduated from the University in 1937 with a degree in com­merce. Raymond Siegfried graduated from Notre Dame in 196~ with a degree in business admnistration. Raymond Siegfried is currently chair­man and chief executive officer ofNORDAM Inc., an aerospace and defense manufacturer and also a member of the Univer­sity's Board of Trustees. 
vestigations suggested that the moped was not stolen. However the following day further inves­tigation showed that the moped was stolen from the city of South Bend, said Johnson. 
"Our staff worked with the South Bend police and is bring­ing up charges against the youths for possesion of stolen property," said Johnson. The two male youths are age 13 and 14, said Johnson: 


Friday, March 31, 1989 The Observer 
Furor in UK erupts over bomb 
•


left 1n plane undiscovered · 
Associated Press 
LONDON-A new furor over airport security broke out Thursday after the discovery that a British Airways jet flew with an explosive aboard for at least two weeks because police on a bomb-detection drill forgot to remove it. 
The bar of explosive gelignite was tucked in a seat pocket in economy class of the Boeing 747, news reports said Wednes­day night. Authorities would not say when the gelignite was put on the plane. 
The incident was particu­larly embarrassing to British officials trying to tighten secur­ity following the Dec. 21 bom­bing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland. 
The Air Transport Users Committee, a consumer group, called it ''the sort of careless­ness we can't afford." 
Lawmaker David Wilshire of the governing Conservative Party said the public was al­ways being told British Air­ways was among the most security-minded airlines. 
"My mind boggles at the thought of what airlines in Tim­
~=~~·:~·~~~:~:~~·~:~~==:·~~:~· ~~·;·~·p 
and w1sh her a happy one. By the way Laura, we do expect to see you dancing


ll II
on pool tables ton1ght 
buktu are like if this is the best," he said. "The worst must be mind-blowingly in­competent." 
The chairman of British Air­ways, Lord King, said the ex­plosives worked their way through the upholstery and that a cleaner found them Monday 
after  the  jet  returned  to  
Heathrow  Airport  from  
Toronto.  

Police Inspector Andrew Nielson said the gelignite weighed less than a pound and was four inches long and less than an inch wide. He said the substance had no detonator, could not explode by itself and ''at the very worst it could flare up if ignited by fire." 
King said even if the sub­stance posed no danger, "that's not the point. It might have been something that was dan­gerous." He promised an inves­tigation, adding, "If heads fall, they fall." 
The explosives were brought aboard the plane to test secur­ity but overlooked by police dogs trained to search for bombs, according to aut­horities. 
Scotland Yard said an agree­ment with British Airways per­mits the occasional use of its planes for dog training, and King said he would ''think twice" about allowing the ar­rangement to continue. 
Asked who was to blame, King said, "The police say they are responsible for it being there. I am responsible for the airline and whatever it's in­volved in--we don't stand back from that." 
Transport Minister Lord Brabazon said he contacted the chief executive of British Air­ways, Colin Marshall, to ex­press concern over the inci­dent, which was being investigated by police. 
Asked why the police did not count the explosives before and after the bomb-detection drill, Brabazon said: "that does seem rather odd, I agree." 
Last week, three youths in ski tnasks sneaked aboard an empty British Airways jumbo jet in a maintenance area at Heathrow, photographed their escapade, and gave the videotape to a television net­work. 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 
LaFortune. 
ATTENTION ALL GRADUATING STUDENTS 

Measurements will be taken for 
Caps and Gowns 
Tuesday April 4, 1989 Wednesday April 5, 1989 
Between 9:00 -4:00 at the 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
page 5 


rne Observer 1 Catherine McMenamin 
Putting his duds in the suds 
Sophomore Damian Shiner carrys an overflowing laundry bag to LaFortune in order to wash his clothes. Many students who weren't fortunate enough to have their mom do their laundry over Easter 

Summer Programs ND-SMC Students 
Rome 
June 18-July 17 Travel in France, Germany, Switzerland and Italy ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING April 3 7:00 pm 351 Madeleva, SMC 
Courses offered in Italian Culture, History and Italian Language For more info, contact prof. Black 4460 or 272-3726. 


spent this week catching up. 





Griffin 
continued frcm page 12 


Christ promised to temper the wind to the shorn lamb. 
At the end of Bernanos' "Diary," the country priest vomits blood in great quanti­ties. When he is told that the Last Sacraments may not reach him in time, the dying man answers, "Does it mat­ter? Grace is everywhere." In other words, everything turns to grace--the apparent defeats, the discouragement, the pain, the sickness, even the human shabbiness called sin. Does not Augustine describe Adam's great sin as "a happy fault," because, as a result of it, the Redeemer came into the world? 
Christ gave us the sacra­ments as visible signs of an invisible grace, and He is giving the Church eight new priests wearing Roman col­lars to be the agents of God's grace ministering to God's people. Having them around will make me feel young as an elder. Even without knowing them, Darby O'Gill and I never said we didn't love them. 
HOliJLYWOOD GlAMOUR 1924 ~ 1956 
Selected Portraits from The Wisconsin Center for Film and Theater Research University of Wisconsin 
The Snite Museum of Art, University of Notre Dame April 1 -May 21, 1989 
OPENING RECEPTION Saturday, April 1 from 6 -9:30 pm 
soo~' Q9.~ &. 
~ovc ,qzA\~\c\t~\.lus\ wv..e 
MOVIES OPENING NIGHT: "Easter Parade," 1948, 7:00pm "Tarzan, The Ape Man," 1932, 9:00 pm 
BRING THIS COUPON TO THE RECEPTION: become a member of The Snite. and see the movies opening night for free! 
(l'v1ovies In the Annenberg Auditorium 
are $2 for non-members) 



about the plane rides at a headset on, I felt like Tom perspective on the campus. something happens to the pilot Plane Semper Fidelis meeting. Cruise in "Top Gun," even if I The empty Notre Dame and Shelley Winters ends upcontinued from page 1 "Capt. Mitter came to a didn't look like him. Stadium looked more like a landing the plane. Being along meeting and talked to us about Kendrick explained how to punch bowl with yard line for the ride was good enough. pilot can attend a no-obligation our interest in flying," said use the intercom and taxied the markers and suddenly, the Mter about twenty minutes, summer officer commission Brennan. plane to the runway for takeoff. walk from Morrissey Hall to Maj. Kendrick landed the program. According to Mitter, Marine The takeoff was much like the Computing Center/Math plane. I didn't want to leave, 
"If they complete the sum­pilots fly tactical aircraft such taking off in a commercial jet­Building didn't look as far as it but Maj. Kendrick had many mer program and graduate a F-18s, Harriers, Helicopters liner, except that I could actu­usually does. students waiting for their from officer training school, we and the newly developed tilt­ally feel the plane swaying as "Flying the plane was a lot chance to fly. guarantee to send them to. rotor V-22 Osprey. we lifted off the ground. easier than you'd think," said Despite my initial misgiv­flight school," Mitter said. I soon realized that I was ex­sophomore Cesar Gonzalez. ings, I would would do it again 
Major Kendrick, the pilot, The plane used for these periencing what real flight During his flight, Gonzalez was in a second. Unfortunately for said that the program is suc­flights, however, resembled must be like. Flying in a huge able to fly the plane himself. Capt. Mitter, my poor vision cessful in gaining new recruits. the plane that Richie Valens 747 lost its appeal as I felt like ''Maj. Kendrick showed me prevents me from fulfilling my"We find that many of the stu­flew in "La Bamba" and the pilot and I were part of the what to do and then I took destiny of being the Red Baron dents who fly with us like it so helped to dampen my enthusi­plane. over," said Gonzalez. "I of the United States Marines. much that they enroll in the asm for the flight. The view was spectacular. started doing all kinds of crazy I'm glad.to say that my fears summer program,'' he said. I climbed into the rear seat Green farm fields soon gave things, but then I lost my about the flight were un­
Also waiting to fly was Junior of the two seat plane and met way to the St. Joseph River and bearings and got disoriented," founded. The plane didn't crash Ted Brennan, a Naval ROTC Kendrick, who works out of the the Saint Mary's campus. he said. after all and I even got back in Marine Option candidate. ''I'm Marine Corps 9th District Of­Then I spotted the white At that point, Kendrick took time for my Finite Math class. interested in being a Marine fice in Kansas City. domes of the Joyce ACC and, of control and went upside down, I started the day in the clouds pilot and I've flown a plane Kendrick flys similar flights course, the Golden Dome. The according to Gonzalez. and kept that feeling all after­before, but I've never had a throughout the 9th district, Notre Dame campus looked I was not lucky enough to fly noon. For the first time in mychance to fly a Marine Corps which includes Indiana. like a group of toy buildings in the plane myself, which was life, I really did do more before plane." After I was strapped into the a mesh of green trees. fine with me. I've seen too 9 a.m. than most people did all 
Brennan said he found out cockpit and had placed my As expected, I gained a new many disaster movies in which day. 
FRESHMEN 
FRESHMEN 
FRESHMEN 




CONSULTING WEEK 
APRIL 2-6, 1989 
AN OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE YOUR LAST MINUTE QUESTIONS 
ANSWERED / BEFORE YOU MUST DECLARE YOUR COLLEGE PROGRAM 
SEE THE APRIL FRESHMAN DEAN'S NEWSLETTER FOR SCHEDULING DETAILS 

DON'T MISS THE OPPORTUNITY 
FRESHMEN 
FRESHMEN 
FRESHMEN 

page 6 
Space chicks 'look great' since return to Earth 
Associated Press 
MONTMORENCI, Ind.­Eight chicks that have hatched since returning to Earth from this month's space shuttle mis­sion "look great" but it's too early to tell how their rocket­borne incubation will affect their development, the student who conceived the experiment said Thursday. 
The eight space chicks, now mixed with eight chicks from a control group that remained on Earth, are living in small pens at the Baker-Purdue Animal Sciences Center at Montmorenci, about 10 miles north of the West Lafayette campus. 
"I'm thrilled with how well they're coming along," John Vellinger said. "They look great. Time will tell what dif­ferences we'll see." 
Vellinger, a 23-year-old Purdue University senior, cradled a chick nicknamed with his initials J.V. while the peeping bird seemed oblivious to waiting reporters and photographers. 
The Observer Friday, March 31, 1989 
.. ' .t 
• It •• 
Police stop Korean strikers 
Plain clothed South Korea riot police wearing tear gas masks stand guard over hundreds of arrested striking Hyundai shipyard workers Thursday. Ten thousand police stormed the shipyard before dawn and arrested more than 700 workers who had waged a three-month old strike. 
Friday, March 31, 1989 The Observer 


Business/government relations are changing 

By JOHN ZALLER 
News Staff 
Alfredo Campo, in charge of 
logistics for the Office of the 
Assistant Secretary to the 
Army, spoke about the chang­
ing relations of government 
and business. 
"Many government students do not realize just how big the government is," Campo said, stressing the importance of knowing "how the government does business. Acquisition is a buzz word at the Pentagon.'' 
''Acquisition means all of those functions involved in the production and supply of any product beginning with design and ending with disposal." Campo said businesses and the Pentagon alike are looking for people ''who are well qualified in the acquisition process, that is, people who are multi­functional. '' 
Campo pointed to the ad­vancements in computer infor­mation management. "You can't sit at that terminal and 

Thlllllndlln 1hl ~11M • hGmll and rM1InQ lpDII few ~ 
be effective if you don't know 
.,.... of wldiW.. 8oml tcnawn wtlelltllncludl hi til**............ 
everything about the informa­
...ttan.....ottlrllnd vattoullelblrd catanlll. n..........MMt 
tion process. You have to know 
• brHCinQ Qrouncll tor ~~~man. herrtnQ n Ohr ftlh n ntlftlh. 
far more than you did ten years ago. The demand on the person is much greater today," he said. 
The twelve-year Pentagon veteran said he sees a change in governmentbusiness rela­tions, and that the budgetary pressures on both, along with new computer technology, call for a "streamlining of the process and more busi­nesslgovernment cooperation. 
"As islands of knowledge be­come continents of knowledge and islands of technology be­come continents of technology, we will revolutionize the way we do business.'' 
Campo, a Mexican-born American citizen, was part of the continuing Year of Cultural Diversity series at Notre Dame. 
He spoke Thursday at Hayes­Healy Center. 
9.99 CD and 6.99 tape Tracks 
Mon-Sat 10 am -9 pm Sun 11 am-7 pm 1631 E. Edison 277-8338 
Correction 
In an article appearing on the first page of Thursday's Ob­server, incorrect information regarding the distribution of commencement tickets. The tickets will. be distributed the Tuesday before commence­ment, and not in mid-April as reported in the article. 
page 7 



Tanker 
continued from page 1 
tification when it ran aground, or by the ship's lookout, the helmsman or the radio oper­ator. However, a Coast Guard employee who was working in a radio room in Valdez had a blood-alcohol level of .20 when 
he  was  tested  more  than  12  
hours  after  the  accident,  
Woody said.  

The worker, Bruce Blandford, told investigators he had begun drinking only after he got off work and was not drunk at the time of the tanker accident. Woody said his superiors reported that Blandford's performance ap­peared normal. 
Meanwhile, another ship ar­rived Thursday to take the remaining oil off the crippled tanker, and an oil slick contin­ued to spread over 500 square miles of what once was one of Alaska's most beautiful marine habitats. 
Oil washed ashore the rocky beaches of remote islands and stained icebergs in once­crystal blue Prince William Sound. 
''Anyone who goes up and looks at the slick has to be humbled by it,'' said Coast Chief Petty Officer Todd Nel­son. Many had another reac­tion. 
"The anger of our people would be difficult to describe," said Gov. Steve Cowper. 
+ 
American 
Red Cross 
Be a volunteer. 

Don't miss this golden opportunity to save on a Balfour College Class Ring! • $300FF10K • $500FF14K • $700FF18K Hurry! Offered for a limited time only! 
See your Balfour Representative 
Monday April 3rd & lOth 11-4:30 Haggar College Center Gan1e Roon1 
Special "JuniQr Monts" Weekend April 8, 12-3 in the Game Room. 
~l:E
~' ----= 
Deposit Required 

-·­
------~------------------------------~----------~----------------~~~----.-~---.~-------------­
page 8 



Anchorage Daily News 
wins Pulitzer Prize 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-The Anchorage Daily News won the 1989 Pulit­zer Prize for public service Thursday for a series on al­coholism and suicide among native Alaskans. The Philadel­phia Inquirer and Chicago Tribune each won two prizes. 
The public service award "will give us a chance to reiterate the point of the stories done in the first place: we've got a serious problem up here," said Pat Dougherty, editor of the Daily News. The newspa­per also won the public service award in 1976 for a series on the Teamsters union in Alaska. 
Donald Barlett and James 
Steele of the Inquirer won the 
national reporting prize for a 
15-month investigation of 
provisions in the Tax Reform 
Act of 1986 that gave special 
tax breaks to many politically 
connected individuals and busi­
nesses. The Pulitzer Board said 
the series aroused so much 
public indignation that 
Congress rejected such breaks. 
The Inquirer's David Zuc­chino won in feature writing for his series "Being Black in South Mrica," described as "richly compelling" by the judges. The Pulitzer Board had switched his entry from the in­ternational reporting category to features. 
It was the 16th Pulitzer in 14 
years for the Inquirer and the 
second such prize for Barlett 
and Steele, who won in 1975 for 
reporting on the Internal Rev­
enue Service. 
The Chicago Tribune's win­ners were Clarence Page in the commentary category, for his 
'Brare 
continued from page 1 
one's needs," said Miller. 
Miller said that the trouble with the ratings is that mis­judgments can be and are made. 
"I think our library should be better than it is," said Provost Timothy O'Meara. He ex­plained that the rating is not good because a larger univer­sity with many departments would purchase more books 


Zone 
continued from page 1 
procedures, he said, but merely followed the rezon­ing process. 
"(The new ordinance) es­stablishes a ceiling on the num­ber of students in the neighbor­hood .... It was a reaction to the number of multi-family units that exist in that neigh­borhood,'' he said. Doran said he personally doesn't feel the change was made "100 percent" because of students, but "maybe 50 per­cent." "The population in the North­east Neighborhood is getting older," said Doran, "and when age escalates there's going to be an increased turnover in housing.'' 
"There was a trend for developers to come in and pur­chase property at an escalated price, and then rent it out to students. People saw that," he said. "They don't want to live next to nothing but multi­family units." 

The Observer Friday, March 31, 1989 
••. \ ,.. l 
· • .. ~.. 
. 
-~~J.;;~ . .· 0~\~:i®:!i. ··. The Observer 1 t;atnenne McMenamm 
Looking over his shoulder 
Watching like -a trained observer, Sophomore adds some finishing touches to a ceramic project carey Cassidy observes as senior Xavier Wynn in Riley Hall of Art and Design on Thursday. 

Death penalty proposal inspired by furlough killer approved by panel 
Associated Press they were serving time for as­their requests for notification. 
saulting. H.B. 1217, approved 8-0, 
INDIANAPOLIS-The Senate House Bill1217 would specify originally called for witnesses Judiciary Committee crafted that victims or witnesses in vi­to be notified whPn felons thev two proposals Thursday that olent crime cases be notified, testified against were released would fill legal gaps involving if they make a request, before from prison. Notification inmates participating in prison the defendants were let out on already is required for victims release programs. work-release, furlough or spe­and their families. 
Both measures were cial assignment programs. Finance Committee Chair­responses to the recent contro­Prosecutors contend Mathe­man Edward Pease, R-Brazil, versy surrounding furloughed ney, who was serving an eight­added language specifying that prison inmate Alan Matheney, year sentence for battering both the victim and witnesses who is charged with beating his Lisa Marie Bianco, beat her to be notified before the felon is ex-wife to death March 4 while death while he was on a pass let out under any type of tem­on an eight-hour pass. from the Correctional Indus­porary prison release pro­
House Bill1421, as amended trial Complex in Pendleton. gram. Thursday, would make it Authorities say neither "The tragedy of Lisa Bianco easier for prosecutors to seek Bianco nor the St. Joseph very well could have been the death penalty when parti­County prosecutor were told avoided if this language had cipants in such release pro­that Matheney was going to be been in place," said Rep. Mi­grams murdered the people released on a pass, despite chael Dvorak, D-Granger. 
columns on local and national affairs, and Lois Wille for edi­torial writing. 
The Louisville (Ky.) Courier­Journal was awarded the prize for general news for coverage of a church bus crash that claimed 27 lives and its ex­amination of the accident's cause. 
Bill Dedman of the Atlanta Journal and Constitution won the Pulitzer for investigative reporting for "The Color of Money," an investigation of al­leged racial discrimination by the city's lending institutions. After: the series, a consortium of banks announced programs for lending at least $67 million at low interest, especially in 
black neighborhoods. 
The Pulitzer for explanatory journalism went to reporter David Hanners, photographer William Snyder and artist Karen Blessen of The Dallas Morning News for their report on a 1986 plane crash and its implications for air safety. 
Edward Humes of The Or­ange County (Calif.) Register won the prize for specialized reporting for his coverage of the military establishment in Southern California. 
The Pulitzer. Board awarded two prizes in international reporting. One went to Glenn Frankel of The Washington Post for reporting from the Middle East; the other went to Bill Keller of The New York Times for coverage of the So­viet Union. 
C.K. Higgins of the Chicago Sun-Times won for his editorial cartoons. 
and therefore have a higher rating. 
The rating does not take into account the needs of the partic­ular university, said O'Meara. ''This does not mean that the rating is satisfactory," said O'Meara. He said that the li­brary was rated 97th three or four years ago and that the Un­versity is making headway. "We have a good way to go," said O'Meara. 
"For the last ten years the University focused on the quality and salaries of the fac­ulty and on improving the com­puter situation on campus,'' said O'Meara. "Now the li­brary and graduate programs are priorities." 
O'Meara said that he would like to see the library brought up to a level that is considered very good quality for the needs of the University's students and faculty. 
He said that the library must improve its collection espe­cially in the area of Modern Languages. Another immedi­ate need is the preservation of the books, said O'Meara. 
A university's research budget has an effect on the amount of total expenditures, said Miller. "A large research budget tends to drive up expen­ditures," said Miller. "Our re­search budget is around $25 million compared to $100, 200 and 300 million of other ARL libraries.'' 
"Right now the library is a signifi c~ntly higher priority, but it's not the only high priority," said O'Meara. 
Miller pointed out that one way to examine a university li­brary is to see how what per­cent of the educational budget is alloted to the library. In 1987­88 Notre Dame spent 3.9 per­cent of the budget on the li­brary, according to Miller. This figure ranks Notre Dame 26 among American university libraries and 36 among all ARL libraries, said Miller. 
"I'd like it (the percentage) to be higher, but it is indicative of the fact that the University is trying to build a library that suits faculty and student's needs," said Miller. "We do pretty well compared to uni­versities that have a higher in­dex number.'' 
Miller said that the volumes added catagory has improved in the last eight to ten years. ''There is a short range space problem," said Miller. The volumes added in 1987-88 was 72,403 and that to double that number of volumes would fill the space on one floor of the Hesburgh library, said Miller. 
A concern over the low num­ber of staff was voiced by both O'Meara and Miller. "The staffing level needs to be im­proved, it's not nearly where it should be," said Miller. 
"Our staffing is very low, we need more staff to improve ser­vice," said Miller. 
A large staff is needed to be of greater assistance to the stu­dents and faculty, said O'Meara. He would also like to see staff bibliographers spe­cific to various disciplines. 








Viewpoint
Friday, March 31, 1989 page 9 
P.O. Box Q
Non-students shouldn't endorse 
Notre Dame has recently gone through its annual spate of elec­tions. The seemingly endless political process has reached its con­clusion as the students have selected their leaders, at various levels, for the upcoming year. 
Something disturbing has occured that threatens the integrity of the student political system at our school. Several members of the administration, faculty and staff have unwisely chosen to partici­pate in the student electoral process, by means of campaigning for a particular ticket in recent elections. 
One incident that brought this problem to light occured at a recent St. Edward's Hall forum the day before the runoff election for class officers. Head Football Coach Lou Holtz spoke at this forum. At the beginning of his speech, Holtz chose to campaign for a specific ticket in the senior class election, unprompted by the audience. 
Holtz's campaigning was in two parts. First, he gave an outright endorsement to this ticket. He mentioned their platform and offered his support of this ticket. Second, he said that the two members of this platform who were members of the football team would be able to commit the time necessary to fulfill the responsibilities of their office. 
Holtz acted correctly in this second part; as their coach, he is the best suited person to judge this. However, Holtz was entirely wrong in endorsing their ticket. 
It is improper for someone not part of the political system to campaign for a certain candidate. Such campaigning creates an unfair advantage for that ticket. The non-participant campaigner does not have to live with the results of his or her actions; this person is not represented by the people he or she campaigns for. Furthermore, outside endorsements only further confuse the issues brought up in student government campaigns. 
In this case, we have a member of the Administration endorsing a student ticket. This is particularly wrong. The persons campaign­ing are supposed to represent students, not the faculty, staff and administration. It is not a part of Holtz's role, as an employee of the University, to campaign for student government officials. Holtz was hired to coach the football team; it is improper for him or for any other member of the faculty, staff or administration to use his or her influence and reputation to interfere in a student election. 
A dangerous precedent has been set. Imagine the chaos that 
would ensue if Father Malloy, Father Tyson, John Goldrick, and all the other members of the administration, faculty and staff chose to participate in the student elections. 
Holtz was not alone in endorsing candidates during this election season; several professors also engaged in this practice, and it is equally wrong for them to do so. 
In his speech at St. Ed's, Holtz said "It may be unwise for a football coach to get involved in politics." We agree wholeheart­edly. It is unwise for anyone not involved in a political system to attempt to participate in that system. It should not happen again. 
-The Observer 
Apology made for election error 
Dear Editor: 

On behalf of the Office of the Om­budsman, I would like to offer this for­mal apology to the Junior Class Office ticket of John Romanelli, Michael Faeh­ner, Annie Butkovich, and Eileen Perkins. According to the by-laws of the Constitution, the Office of the Om­budsman is required to print the names of the candidates running for class of­fice prior to the election in The Obser­ver. We made a procedural oversight and failed to publish the list; the aforementioned candidates brought this error to our attention. The error was completely unintentional, and, in no way, did the Office of the Om­budsman intend to grant an advantage or disadvantage to any of the candi­dates running for class office. 
In future elections, we will make every effort to ensure that this error is not committed again. We would like to thank the candidates for their diligence and patience. 
Victor DeFrancis Keenan Hall March 28, 1989 


Public learns from athletes' mistakes 
Dear Editor: · 

I am writing in response to Robyn Simmons' March 14 article, "ND Foot­ball Players are 'Painfully Human.'" concerning Mike Stonebreaker's and Tony Brooks' recent brushes with the law. I am studying in the Washington semester program from Saint Mary's, and news of the events arrived in D.C. just hours after they occurred. I am certain that I received the news as soon as, if not sooner than, any of my friends here in South Bend. I think that the news would have been reported whe­ther or not football players had been involved. That's the type of news events they were. 
Ms. Simmons asks in her article, "If the students who broke the law were just 'ordinary' Notre Dame undergrad­uates, would the Chicago Tribune be prompted to run a headline like 'Brooks joins Stone breaker on police blotter'?'' Of course they wouldn't. But, what she failed to mention was that the article in question appeared in the Tribune's sports section, which always highlights the activities of sport celebrities, on or off the field. A police arrest, especially that of an athlete, is reprehensible. When the media focus on sport celebrities, such unfortunate events are brought to light. Football players, whe­ther they like it or not, are constantly in the public eye. Thus, they come un­der public scrutiny when they break a law. Laws are created for a reason, and are not meant to be carelessly broken, especially by someone whom people think to be a "god" as the article sug­gests. The arrests of Mike Stonebreaker and Tony Brooks serve as reminders that athletes are not "gods," but since they are held in high regard, the public should be made aware of their shortcomings, so that others may learn from their mistakes. 
Susan E. O'Connor (Le Mans HallJ Washington, D.C. March 16, 1989 

Campus Ministry helps out needy 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to express a heartfelt thanks to the Campus Ministry and the Sisters of the Holy Cross for their kind and generous donations to the Appalac­hia Seminar held over spring break. 
It was a wonderful experience to learn about a new and different part of America, so often ignored. The dona­tions allowed us to contribute more productively during our stay. We were able to put up walls in a warehouse and make a donation to the center we stayed at. 
I encourage students and groups to continue to support the Appalachia Seminar. The greater the donations, the more work that can be done by the will­ing and able students who take the time and interest to donate their services to this needy and impoverished region. 
Tara Cosacchi Walsh Hall March 30, 1989 
Doonesbury 
CONG~OMAN, A Yt:AR AGO, I 7l3Te!? HJV-POSIT/V~. I 5!/U f)(}N7HAV/3 ANY 5YMPTOM5, 
BUT I'M AtRt:AIJY BeiNG 
TREAT&P UK/3 A L.bP/31< 80TH 
' SOOAUYANP 
ATWOI<I<.. 


WING 70 &JJUCA!E P£OPt.l3. A80UT TH/3 FACTS CONCERNING / Al//5 SUFFERERS? 
z;tt IJF!?AIP NOT V&RY MUQ-1... 
I 

7V /JATE, HEAL.7H JJUTHJR./Tl&S HAVe CONC&NTRATet? 7HE31R &FFOI<T5 ON PR&VeNTIV8 PROGRAMS. BUT 7H& FAC5AF.e Ge7i!N60UT. I THINK PCOPl& AR/3 8£a)'rl!NG M01<£CNL.IhHJCNe,lll 
ANP TOt&RANT "­TOWARJJ5 ?HE 
VICTIM~ OF 
AlPS. "'"---_.....-. 

Garry Trudeau Quote of the Day 
YOU'R/3 GOIN6 70 HAV/3 70 7Ri.JS7 ME ON 
TH/5 ON/3, MAi1M. 
'We cannot expect to live by
\ 

~il'li11!h. 
our convictions and fully satisfy everyone.' 
-John C. Tormey 

1989-90 General Board 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 Editor-in-Chief .................................... Chris Donnelly Business Manager .............. -............... Rich Jannel~ Managing Editor .................................. Aegis Coccia Controller .............................................. Anne Lindner Exec. News Editor ...................... Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager .............................. Molly Killen 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Viewpoint Editor .................................... Dave Bruner Advertising Design Manager ......... Shannon Roach Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of Sports Editor ....................................... Theresa Kelly Production Manager ............................ Alison Cocks the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as Accent Editor ........................................... John Blasi Systems Manager ..............•...............Maril Derwent possible Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Photo Editor ..............•.............................. Eric Bailey OTS Director ............•...................... Angela Bellanca Managing Editor. Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the tree expression of varying opinions 
Founded November 3, 1968 
on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
' ' 

MOVIES "Cocktail" 







fri.

Engineering Auditorium, 8, 10:15 p.m. 
"Sherman's March" 

Annenburg Auditorium, 8:00 p.m. 
MUSIC Fiesta! 

Latin American dance party featuring Super Combo Pan Americano at Theodore's, 9:30-1:30 a.m. 
MOVIES 


sat.
"Wall Street" 

Engineering Auditorium, 8, and 10:15 p.m. 
"Easter Parade" 

Annenberg Auditorium, 7 r.m. 
"Tarzan the Ape Man 
Annenberg Auaitorium, 9 p.m. 
MUSIC "Secret Agent Band" 
Theodore's, 9:30p.m. 

Judy Gorman-Jacobs 
singerI songwriter will perform in concert at 
the~oreau Hall Little Theater at S.M.C., 9 p.m. 
MUSIC


If 
sun.
"CONTINUUM" 

Chamber ensemble performing "Music of the 
Schoenberg Circle" Annenberg, 4 p.m. free. 
Organ recital 

· Craig and Sue Westendorf at St. John's Episcopal Church, 3rd and Lexington St. Elkhart, ln. 8 p.m. 
Snite series focuses on the Hollywood 'glamour era' 
JANICE ARCHER accent writer 

hen most people think of their fa­vorite actor or actress, images of riches and 

glamour come to mind. The opulent lifestyles of most movie stars are well­documented in gossip columns and magazines. This traditional way of life for those in the public spotlight has been captured in an ex­hibit at the Snite Museum of Art entitled, ''Hollywood Glamour, 1924-1956." 
The exhibit, running from April 1 through May 2L traces the evolution of the genre of portrait photogra­phy. It features 60 black-and­white portraits of movie idols of the period, such as John Wayne, Joan Crawford, and Cary Grant. The silver gelatin prints represent the work of the finest portrait photographers of the "clas­sic" era of Hollywood, such as George Hurrell, Ernest Bachrach and Clarence Sinclair Bull. The exhibit is divided into five groups of common Hollywood portrait formulas: "expressive hands," "dressing up"(costumes), "the smoking section," " stars at rest" and "the direct gaze." 
Tomorrow, there will be an opening reception from 6 to 9:30p.m. Popcorn and six­ounce bottles of Coke will be sold in the museum atrium for five cents, the 1924 prices. A double-feature of two movies from the period, "Easter Parade" and "Tar­zan, the Ape Man," will be shown in the Annenberg Auditorium beginning at 7 p.m. 
The film series continues throughout the season, featur­ing the stars of the "glamourous" era. Later on 

"The Thin Man" and "You Can't Cheat an Honest Man" will be shown in addition to a reshowing of the opening night's double feature. The series concludes on May 4 with "Singing in the Rain." Admission to these films is $2, with all movies shown in the Annenberg Auditorium. 
Many other events are con­nected to "Hollywood Glamour," such as a series of three lectures. Brenda Mad­den, a member of the Snite Museum staff~ will lecture on star appeal on April 7 and 21, at 2 p.m. in the Print, Drawing, and Photography Gallery of the Snite. Madden will discuss the enigma of star quality, focusing on 10 movie stars of the thirties. To lend a sense of reality to her talk, Madden will be appear­
• 

ing as her idol and one of the subjects of her lecture, Joan Crawford. 
Maxine Fletckner Ducey, the second lecturer, is direc­tor of the Film Archives at the Wisconsin Center for Film and Theater Research. She will be speaking in the Annen­berg Auditorium on Thursday, April 13, from 4: 15 to 5 p.m. The topic will be "Hollywood in the Heartland.'' 
Pam Falkenberg, an assis­tant professor of communica­tions and theatre at Notre Dame, will be speaking about "The Hollywood Star System and the Politics of Glamour." The lecture will take place at the Snite on April 27 at 4: 15 
p.m. Falkenberg plans to 

Cavanaugh play is refreshing humor 
CHRISTINE McCANN accent writer 
avanaugh Hall 
presented its 
seventh annual pro­
duction last night 


..._..., with Woody Allen's "Don't Drink the Water." Set in an American Embassy in a communist country, it chronicles the escapades of Axel Magee, the bumbling son of the ambassador, who has been placed in charge of affairs during his father's ab­sence. Unfortunately, a fam­ily of American tourists, mis­takenly taken for spies, takes refuge in the embassy and chaos ensues. 
Nathan Fitzgerald, who plays Axel Magee, does a fine job of using the script to develop his own interpreta­tion of the character. Also to be commended are Roseanne DiBenedetto and Martin Schubert, the American tourists, whose continual bickering and perfect timing provide more than adequate comic relief, and they occa­sionally manage to carry the show. 
Amy Ursano, who plays Barret, the Ambassador's aide, and Kerrie Ann Shannon, the tourist's daughter, have created strong roles and con­sistantly remain in character, as do the majority of the players; this is one of the main reasons that the show is so successful (although the script was well chosen to begin with) and will appeal to all. 
There is, as in most produc­tions, an occasional flubbed line and nervous stutter; however, a professional atti­tude embraced by the entire cast and an almost uncanny 

Axel Magee (Nathan Fitzge Susan Hollander (Kerrie Ar Productions' adaptation of 
ability to preserve continuity throughout make these few errors seem minor. The voic1 projection is virtually impec· cable, and is enhanced by th1 fine acoustics of the Library Auditorium. 
Directed by Maggie Mac­Donald and produced by senior Stephen Danek, the play is successful in its over­all goal of comedic entertain ment. In addition, although the production is free, dona­tions are gratefully accepted to benefit the Andy Sowder Fund of Cavanaugh Hall. 
Calvin and Hobbes 
PSST... S\l5\£! \.\t.LP ME 
"ffiiNK VP <3C.\ENT\FIC 
NAMES 0~ M~ BJGS ~~ILE -rnt. ltAG\ERS NOT \.a:>K\~G. 
Bill Watterson 
~\-\~! ~ERE f'lef 
9JPPOSED 10 TAlK 
~~ruse;. l:b \1 l))RSEL~. 
~PS 'iO'J'O UK~ TI> srr \Jp ~r, so 'fOJ 't()t\1 0\Sllt'CT C~l~IN AA'(~ . 
Friday, March 31, 1989 
Siskel and Sheen discuss values 
in American film industry 
ELIZABETH EHRET will explore the correlation accent writer between the themes in movies 
W 
and the beliefs of the Ameri­ealllove can public: how much are we movies. They influenced by what we see at are the great the movies? 
American com­The series includes three municators and films: "Cocktail," "Wall Gene Siskel is a nationally­
have have helped make our Street" and "Risky Busi­known film critic and person­country famous worldwide. It ness," which will run tonight, ality. He joined the Chicago has been said, "There's no Saturday and Monday Tribune in 1969 as a reporter 
business like show business," evenings, respectively. Actor and became the film critic but how often do we think Martin Sheen will give a lec­seven months later. He held 
about what impressions and ture on Tuesday, April 4, at 8 that position for 17 years and values movies give us? What p.m. In addition, there will be has also co-hosted the 
ideas do movies espouse in a panel discussion with Pro­highest-rated half -hour business, family life and fessor Thomas Morris, an et­weekly program in the Public moral questions? hicist in the philosophy depar­Broadcasting System's his­
The Student Union Board, tment; Professor John Houck, tory, "Sneak Previews." He 
the Center for Social Con-an expert on business ethics is now the Tribune's synd­from Notre Dame; and film icated film columnist and co· critic Gene Siskel on host of another popular film Thursday, April 6, at 7 p.m. review show, ''Siskel & All events will be held in the Ebert.'' 
focus on the "marketing of the "Victory March," and Engineering Auditorium. These events were organ­stars to the audience through "Notre Dame, Our Mother." Tickets for the panel discus­ized by students Bob Hawkins publicity, advertising cam­''Hollywood Glamour, 1924-sion and the lecture are avail­and Tony Lang, and Dr. Mi­paigns and the popular 1956" is on loan from and was able at the Information Desk chael Affleck, coordinator of press.'' She will discuss how organized by the Wisconsin in LaFortune. justice and peace program­these factors combine to Center for Film and Theater Critics and audiences have ming and education at the create "star images." Research at the University of recognized and applauded Center for Social Concerns. 
The singing and dancing en­Wisconsin. The Snite Museum Sheen in films such as Sheen and Siskel were invited semble Shenanigans will per­is open Tuesday through Sat­"Apocalypse Now," "Catch-by Affleck. form on April 6 at the Snite, urday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., 22 " "Ghandi" and The American 
' 
before the showing of ''After and Sunday from 1 to 4 p.m. "Firestarter." Sheen has Values/American Film series the Thin Man." The perfor­Admission to the exhibit is extensive theatre, film and strives to combine film and mance will include songs that free, so all classic movie television experience. His dicussion to challenge our were popular during the buffs should be sure to at­professional career began in values and beliefs. Although glamour era, such as tend, and those who may not cerns, student government, 1959 in New York with The most of us would prefer to "Birdland" and "Ain't Mis­be familiar with stars of this Campus Ministry, the College Open Theatre's production of believe that the situations behavin'." They will also sing period are assured of an in­of Business Administration "The Connection" and has portrayed in movies do not in­two Notre Dame favorites: teresting, fun experience. and other departments at the continued successfully for 30 fluence us, we should recog­
University will sponsor a years, including his soon-to-be nize society's pressures to week-long series, American released film, "State of conform. Status, sex and Values/American Film, which Emergency.'' In his lecture, self -centeredness are the should prove to be informa­Sheen will explore the movie norms in popular American tive as well as entertaining. industry in a Judea-Christian film, and this series will be The series will examine the context and how today's films an excellent opportunity to cultural values conveyed reflect, or do not reflect, examine the standards set by through the film industry. It Judea-Christian values. the film industry. 

•






revtew 

Starvin' Marvin's is 'vaguely wrong' 
R 
MARK McLAUGHLIN there's something vaguely ended up getting the boneless meat. The prices were accent writer wrong with it. rib dinner ($6.50) with hot reasonable, but I would The Observer 1 Man Mittino You can order any of sauce. The sauce was hot, but gladly pay an extra dollar for emember Lee's several dinners, which in­not really barbequey; there U.S.D.A. Choice. It's a chore
·aid) attempts to make a pass at 
Ribs? For those of clude potato wedges and your was too much sweetness and to extract the edible bits from 
n Shannon) in Cavanaugh Hall 
you too young or choice of beans, slaw, or ap­not enough "smoked" flavor the rest of the food, which
" Don't Drink the Water." 
too timid, it was a plesauce. A Ia carte stuff is for a good barbeque. Even detracts from what could be a 
Sowder, president of rather infamous available too. The choices are worse, the meat tasted like it pleasant meal. Cavanaugh in 1979, con­beer and ribs joint on State mostly barbeque, with some hadn't been grilled in the Being a short walk from the tracted spinal meningitis Route 23. The ribs were good, sandwiches as well. How they sauce but simply buried in it. bars, Starvin' Marvin's is an· while on his senior ski trip, the place was a dive, and the got a new liquor license is The potato wedges were tasty alternative to the local hot­and died as a result. A fund carding was ... well, laid­beyond me, but beer is avail­but cut too thick to enjoy, and dog stand and the 7-11 down has been set up in his name back. Hence, no more Lee's able and it's cheap. the beans and applesauce Eddy St., but it's an alterna­to provide scholarship money Ribs after a bust netted over were nothing special. tive that might stay with you for a deserving resident of 200 minors. Now the place is Once inside, you order first, One nice touch is that most awhile. the hall each year under new management and then grab a table, and the of the meals are served on a Starvin' Marvin's is open 
"Don't Drink the Water" calls itself Starvin' Marvin's staff brings the food out to thick slice of bread to soak up Tuesday through Thursday 11 continues tonight and Satur­B-B-Q. On the plus side, it's you. This method works fairly some of the extra sauce. That a.m. to midnight, Friday 11 · day at 7:30pm in the Library not as much of a dive. On the well--we only had to wait five makes the meal seem "home­a.m. to 2 a.m., and Saturday Auditorium. Not only is it a minus side ... minutes for our food. They style" for some reason. from noon to 2 a.m.. It's on cheap date, but a wonderful The decor is 8-year-old did botch the order, though, The quarter chicken ($3.95) State Route 23 about half a way to spend an evening en­boys' bedroom. Seriously. overcharging me $2.50. had the same problem that block from Five Corners and joying the finer points of good Disney wallpaper and ND The food? Well, it is readily most of the food at Marvin's The Commons, and they have humor. pennants. It's not horrid, but recalled after 12 hours. I seemed to have: no quality carry-out as well as dining. 


etc.

' page 12 Friday, March 31, 1989 
, 


A priest whom other priests lean on 
Eight Holy Cross priests in my own shy way; for no mitment is fulfilling him or put into question; and that is raphy, "I get tired of the 
will be ordained in Sacred priest is an island, nor should killing him. Whether you're what happened. darkness all around me and Heart Church on Saturday, he want to be. Tomorrow, young or old, you can become At the end of her life, try to refresh my jaded and I wish I knew each of when the new priests are or-tired as a priest. Greater love Therese entered into the ex-spirits with the thoughts of them personally. Each year, I dained, I will feel blessed by no priest has than this, that perience of the atheist. The that bright country where my have this same thought about the fallout of grace that he try to lighten the burden remedies applied to her hope lies ... It is worse tor-the newly-ordained priests, comes to the Church when on his brother, when that bro-tubercular condition were ment than ever ... It's all a but I can never find the young men give themselves to ther is worn out from the painful, humiliating, and inef-dream, this talk of a heavenly bridge over untroubled waters Christ, but I will regret not baggage he's carrying. fective; and in her physical country ... and of a God who that connects my world with being close to them as an old-Shouldn't a new priest be suffering, she felt she was made it all ... death will theirs. (Surely "untroubled" timer who should have been warned that no matter how fastened with Christ to the make nonsense of your hopes; is the appropriate word here; out front cheering for them bright the morning is, the cross. Her "little way" of it will only mean a night for, as Thoreau answered during their years in the sem-darkness can fall quickly? trust and childlike love failed darker than ever, the night of when asked on his deathbed inary. Whether one is Jesuit, Fran-completely, for she could no mere non-existence." whether he had made his If I were ever invited to ciscan, or Holy Cross, or a At the very end, peace peace with God, "I'm not preach at a first Mass, I'm charismatic or a member of came to her, and the Car-
Tomorrow, when 
aware that we have ever not sure what I'd say. The Opus Dei, he can't really melite Community gathered 
quarreled !'') deepest things I feel as a know what God has in mind the new priests are around her bed. Her face be-for him. St. Therese of came ecstatic, and wore a

ordained, I will
Lisieux would not seem, at look of joy, as though she 
Father Robert Griffin first glance, to be rugged feel blessed by the were being born into the in-enough in her spirituality to finite.


fallout of grace
Letters to a Lonely God guide us through the dark-"Comforter, where, where ness; but reading about her that comes to the is your comforting?" asked in an essay called "The Jonas Hopkins in one of his "ter-


Church when 
In June, I will celebrate my priest talking to other priests Experience," by Noel Dermot . rible sonnets." "Mary, mot­35th anniversary as a priest. can't be put into words; if O'Donoghue, an Irish Car-young men give her of us, where is your Yet in all that time, I have they were, they would sound melite, could take the top of relief?/ ... 0 the mind, mind

themselves to
never preached at a first sentimental, like the cards we your head off. has mountains, cliffs of fall! Mass or given the homily at a send to our mothers on Mot-Therese became a Car-Christ. Frightful, sheer, no-man­priest's funeral. That realiza-hers' Day. Laymen suspect melite nun at the age of 16. fathomed. Hold them cheaP" tion makes me sad, for it priests of forming a closed She developed an approach to longer find the Father, the May who ne'er hung there." seems to mean that even network of good ol' boys prac-God she described as "the God of her sheltered years. A great saint and a greatwhen I get close to another tieing to be Jesus; but that's little way," which was, for Therefore, she felt that there poet are not bad companions priest, somebody else ahead not so for more than 15 Therese, the way of the child is no God, there never was a to go with a priest starting of me is always closer, and minutes in any priest's life. who runs to its father's arms God, nor will there ever be; it out who doesn't want to be that no priest I know has ever The priest who carries zeal with complete trust. In this was as though, in her own either. "If you treat all your regarded me as his closest around like a chip on his relationship, the father is en-way, she were encountering friends like this, no wonder friend--though I could point shoulder needs to have his tirely loving and full of deli-the silent skies over you have so few of them," out that two very dear friends burners turned down. cate understanding, and this Auschwitz and Hiroshima. complained St. Teresa of I used to have in Holy Cross What priests have in com-is the notion of the deity The sisters of Carmel could Avila to God at the time of 
are now out of the Communi-mon is that each of them has Therese clung to with un-not bear to look at her, suf-her testing. Every new priestty. made a commitment to God, breakable stubbornness. The fering so, and they fled the will have his own time of test-
I would like to be a priest and one watches the other out only way that it might be put hospital room, praying she ing. The good news is that whom other priests lean on. of the corner of his eye, to in question was through the might not die in despair. 
see Griffin, page 5 

r; At a distance, I lean on them see whether the other's com-very existence of God being She wrote in her autobiog­

,, 
BACK TO BACK BAND WEEKEND I 
Friday: Saturday: It's a Latin Fiesta! featuring: SECRET 
SUPER COMBO AGENT 

PAN AMERICANO BAND 

~ 

/~~· ~/• 




Doors open at 9:30 Band begins at 10:00 PM Show starts at 9:30 pm Co-sponsored by ISO, MEC, SUB ND!SMC ID Required 
Friday, March 31, 1989 The Observer page 13 



Women's NCAA tourney down to final four teams 
Associated Press 
TACOMA, WASH--Louisiana Tech is the defending cham­pion, but top-ranked Tennessee is rated the team to beat in the NCAA women's Final Four, which gets under way in the Tacoma Dome Friday night. 
"They're ranked number one and they should be the favor­ite," said Lady Techsters Co­ach Leon Barmore. 
"I don't think that's right," protested Tennessee Coach Pat Summitt. "I think any of the four teams here could win it." 
Tennessee, 33-2, will meet fifth-ranked Maryland, 29-2, in the second semifinal game at 
8:30 p.m. PST after No. 2 Auburn, 31-1, takes on No. 3 Louisiana Tech, 32-3, at 6 p.m. The championship game will be played Sunday at 1:10 p.m. PDT. 
Louisiana Tech, Auburn and Tennessee were in last year's Final Four in Tacoma, with the Louisiana team overcoming a 14-point deficit to beat Coach Joe Ciampi's Lady Tigers 56-54. 
"Those things tend to stay with you for awhile," Ciampi said. "We hope to use last year to motivate us this year." 
Long Beach State, last year's other Final Four finalist, was eliminated 94-80 by Tennessee in the East Regional final in Bowling Green, Ky., last week. The loss broke a 23-game win­ning streak for the 49ers. 
Summitt's Lady Volunteers will take a 15-game winning streak into their fourth Final Four in a row. Summitt was se­lected as the 'Naismith Coach of the Year for the second time in three seasons. 
Tennessee's last loss came 69-67 against Texas in Austin Jan. 31, in a game in which the Lady Volunteers lost their starting point guard, Tonya Edwards, with a season-ending knee injury. 
Freshman Dena Head replaced Edwards and helped Tennessee win 15 in a row, in­cluding a 72-65 victory at Louisiana Tech and a 66-51 win over previously-unbeaten Auburn in Athens, Ga., for the Southeastern Conference tournament championship. 
Most of Tennessee's offense 
is provided by seniors Bridgette Gordon, Sheila Frost and Melissa McCray. 
Maryland takes a 21-game winning string into the Tennes­see game, its first Final Four appearance since 1982. The Lady Terrapins' losses came against Auburn 75-63 and Clem­son 69-67. 
Maryland is the shortest team in the tournament, with 6-3 senior forward Vicky Bul­lett the focus of its offense with a 21.4 scoring average and 8.8 rebounds a game. 
The Louisiana Tech-Auburn 
semifinal will give Ciampi an 
opportunity for revenge. 
Ciampi thought his team was 
in excellent position to win the 
national championship last 
year when they led by a dozen 
points, 31-19. 
"But you have to play a full game, you can't just play 20 minutes," Ciampi said. 
"I know he'd like nothing more than to beat us this year," said Barmore. 
Auburn's loss to Tennessee, its lone defeat, cost it the No. 1 national ranking after start­ing the season 28-0. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classilieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 
3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The 
charge is 1 0 cents per five characters per day. 


Classifieds 
MALE GRADUATES AOOPTION;Caring. financially secure HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS SUM· APRIL FOOLS DAY HAPPY BIRTHDAY,JU!! FURNISHED ROOMS, AIR, KITCHEN, couple of Irish and Swedish ancestry MER (OR ANYTIME)? Jet there fromNOTICES FRIDGE. 5 MINS. N. CAMPUS. 272· wish to love, cherish. and raise your new­Chicago Detroit, or Cleveland for no BEAUX ARTS BALL Liam Canny: JUST SAY YES!
I I 
0615. born child. Legal and confidential. Please more than $229, or from the East Coast BEAUX ARTS BALL TYPING AVAILABLE call Linda and Craig COLLECT: 212·877-for no more than $160 wlth AIR­VOTE TODAY 287-4082 HOUSE FOR RENT OVER THE 3574 HITCH(TM), as reported In Consumer "A FOOLS PARADISE" Stacy Ebright SUMMER-NEAR CAMPUS. 232·3616 Reporls, NY Times, Let's Go, and na­and 
ADOPT: Happily married, professional tional network morning shows. For SAT. APR. 1ST ARKIE BLDG. Christine Heslin NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for FOUR FLAGS FARM BED AND couple wishes to provide wonderful details, call 212-864-2000 or write: KNOTT HALL CO-PRESIDENTS CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks' Cash BREAKFAST CONVENIENTLY LO­home, secure future, much love for AIRHITCH(TM) 2901 Broadway, Suite DON'T BE A FOOL AND MISS IT or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK CATED 20 MINS. FROM NO. IDEAL white newborn. Legal. Expenses paid. 100G, NY, NY 10025.. IT WILL BE A BALL 
OOOPS! WE GOOFED! MEXICO CITY 

808 Howard St just off of N.D. FOR ALL NO ACTIVInES. 616-471· Call us collect 212-517-2696. PROGRAM PAST AND FUTURE
Ave.(walk1ng distance from campus) ph. 5711. BADINITES UNITE!!!!! 
PARTICIPANTS··-you were NOT pur­233-2342 COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE: Out­posefully left off the flyer for next week's

SUMMER LODGING IN SOUTH BEND standing brothe11slster sports camps COME OUT AND HAVE A BALL 
Bon Voyage party. It was simply a hor·EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL SUMMER SCHOOL? on largest lake In New England near BADIN rible mistake--you are all invited to the

MRS. COKER, 233-7009. WORKING HERE? "ON GOLDEN POND" site seek staff. BEAUX ARTS BALL pizza and information exchange party atYOU NEED PRIVACY TO STUDY, ALL TRAVEL PAID. Call Collect: SPIRIT Theodore's, Wed 415. 4:30·6:00 PleaseTYPING term papers-teport!V let­REST, Roblndel (girls) 215-884-3326, "A FOOLS PARADISE" forgive us and do come!!!
ter&tesumes. Pick up & delivery avail­AND PLAY AT YOUR BEST Wlnaukee (boys) 203-227-4387 or see WEEK able. 2n·5134 108m-8pm. CHECK OUT A TURTLE CREEK us on Thurs., Mar. 30, 10:30 AM-2PM APRIL FOOLS DAY ARKIE BLDG. STUDIO at LaFortune. 
ITS HERE!!!!!!!! HEH MARY Good luck! I know you can
TYPING CALL JIM AT 272-4788 THE BACKSTREET BLUES BAND do honey!
PICKUP & DELIVERY Ramada Inn of Elkhart has rooms for TIX: $3 dining halls $4 at door 277-7406 Graduation weekend. Minimum stay 2 9:30p-2:00a 
Love, Molly

nights with $100 deposit per room. ANYONE, ANYONE? Lost my key (231) Send letter to 3011 Belvedere Rd., on St. Pat's Day at St. Andrew's church. NOT JUST FOR ARKIES 
Local Not-For-Prctit Organization has Elkhart, IN 46514 or Call219-262-1581. Please call x2866 if you found it! BUT FOR FOOLS
WANTED 
SWEENEY SISTERS UNITE AGAINSTOpenings for Qualified Persons in our THE EVIL MEN OF THIS WORLD!

Residential Homes. Residential Assis· GATHER AGAINST APARTHEID APPLICATIONS ARE NOW BEING AC· AlAS-NO AIAS·ND AIAS·ND AlAS-NO STOP AT NOTHING-EVEN EMAS.
!ants-Substitutes Provides care and treat­CAMP MILLHOUSE NEEDS TODAYII 12:15 PM at DOME STEPS CEPTED FOR FRESHMAN ORIENTA­CULATION! LETS SEE HOW THEYment for Developmentally Disabled WATERFRONT. NATURALIST. FINE TION EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE '89. DON'T BE A FOOL AND MISS IT ACT AFTER BEING DEPRIVED OFadults. Flexible work schedules. Valid ARTS. MALE COUNSELORS. ROOM. Please pick them up THEIR VIGOR!
Driver's L1cense and Transportation BOARD. INSURANCE. TIME OFF. HOPING TO ADOPT in the secretary's office, 2nd 
•!····························..································ 
needed. Full-time. Part-time, and Sub­COMPETITIVE PAY. JUNE 9-AUGUST We're a happily married, financially floor of LaFortune. KNOTT HALL WOMEN CHRISTOPHER WEPPNERstitutes. Reply to: LOGAN 1235 N. Eddy. 19. LEA 234-1169. secure couple with a beautiful home Applications due April 3rd, 5 p.m. 
otherwise known as theP 0 Box 1049, South Bend, IN, 46624. and lots of love to share with much­VOTE FOR MARY PAT & USA WHEN GQ STUD289-4831 Is anyone looking for a roommate or wanted baby. If you are pregnant and SENIOR FORMAL SENIOR FORMAL EXPERIENCE COUNTS, COUNT ON turns 22 today!

apartment in CHICAGO this SUMMER? considering placing your baby for LAST CHANCE TO BUY BIDS us Happy Birthday Chris! 
SOPHOMORES !!! So am I! Call Dan at x4115. adoption, please call us. We can help Wed. April 5, 7·9pm in LaFortune you, and you can help us make our Get measured for tux, arrange table CORBETI & MACKEn KNOTT HALL Are you ready for advanced registra­NEED BAND TO PLAY CARIB­lives complete. Expenses paid. Con­seating. and room reseiVations. PRES. AND V.PRES 
Kate,Chris,Shea.& Tiff:tion on April 20th? BEAN-REGGAE MUSIC,FRI & SAT fidential, legal. Call Deborah and Thanks for your help and support.

Have you selected your major? NIGHTS THRU APRIL CAPT ALEXAN· David collect day or night at 3121935-SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS STONE PUPPIES Erin & Theresa
If you answered no, consider register­DER'S WARF FOR MORE INFO.,CALL 4088, or call our counselor collect at BUY SR. FORMAL BIDS APRIL 5TH STONE PUPPIES ing tor the CareeriMaior Decision 234·4477. 31 Z280-8744. LAFORTUNE 7-9PM STONE PUPPIES 
················· ............................................. . 

Making Workshop starting the week Two guys who don't do their own laundry­BEASTIALITY AT ITS BEST Comeof April 3rcl at the University Counsel· AN TOSTAL'89 GENERAL MEETING ·live at Mateo's Friday night. No geeks watch the Primitive Bushmen play in the lng Center. Call 239-7336 to register NO LIBRARY AUDITORIUM SUNDAY, MAGGIE MACDONALD: Best of luck to· allowed Hall of Fame Game this Sunday at 2:00 or for more Information APRIL 2 9 P.M. unight. Love, all your second floor pals!!
FOR SALE 
behind the bookstore. 
BEAUX ARTS BALLSTONE PUPPIES 

Thankyou St. Jude for a prayer an­STONE PUPPIES BMW R9~ Motorcycle. 1976. 6 swered.
BEAUX ARTS BALL HAVE A BALL AT

STONE PUPPIES thousand orig. miles. excellent condition. Kevin Koch: I'm graduating soon. SENOR KELLY'S SENOR KELLY'S brown, stock, $2200. 872-7315. SAT. APRIL 1ST ARCHITECTURE DO YOU NEED A ROOMMATE OR TO From: The girl from Sr Bar
THE CHARITY BALL
SENOR KELLY'S SENOR KELLY'S BLDG. 
SHARE AN APARTMENT IN DOWN· Roy introduced to you. SENOR KELLY'S NEW LONDON LAKE CONDOMINIUM 
TOWN CHICAGO THIS SUMMER? SO 283-4071. SATURDAY NIGHT 10:00 SATURDAY Condo faces pool that's surrounded Fri., March 31 
"'A FOOLS PARADISE" 

DO I-BUT YOU NEED TO BE A NIGHT 10:00 by a lake stocked with bass. Features FEMALE, OR MY MOTHER WILL KILL COME BY AFTER THE NCAA'S 2 large bdnns, 2 baths, all appliances, ME! CALL TARA 284-4014 I BETTER HAVE A GOOD TIME AT THIS 
TIX: $3 PRESALE $4 AT DOOR YOU WOULD BE A FOOL TO MISS IT
2 car garage & new carpet throughout. LOCAL SWIMMING POOL COMPANY FORMAL. I'M WARNING YOU.. YOU Located on Ironwood at Bulla. Close HAS OPENINGS FOR FULL-TIME KNOW WHO YOU ARE. I OONT IN­to everything. Sn,700. Call Janice Hll· EMPLOYEES OUTSIDE WORK, GRACE....GRACE .... GRACE .... GRACE TEND TO WASTE ANOTHER 
NEED ANY DEROGATORY MIAMI
dabridle at Cressy & Everett 233-6141 GREAT EARNING POTENTIAL. CALL .... GRACE .... GRACE ....GRACE ..... WEEKEND NIGHT . 


I LOST/FOUND I 
FOOTBALL T SHIRT!!! PLEASE CALLor 233-8883. 
SERGIO'S SUNGOD POOLS. 287-9283 VOTE FOR 
RANDI X4977

FOR APPT. SHAUN BARRYA.EE POUSANO SMC FRESHMAN FORMAL LOST LOST LOST BUILDING STRUC­For Sale: 1 way ticket from O'HARE to CO-PRESIDENTS PI DELTA LAMBDAS
TURES TEXTBOOK GREY AND WHITE Portland,OR 513 at 10 A.M.$175 Call DESPERATELY SEEKING DRUMMER "APRIL SHOWERS" COVER HARDBOUND PLEASE CALL Mary P. at X 4015. would like to thank everyone who par­
FOR FRIDAY,APRIL 7 TERRY X2706 I REALLY NEED THIS ticipated In Phone Tag on Saturday,BAND NO METAL CALlx1749 ATTENTION PREMEDS TODAY IS YOUR LAST CHANCE TO BOOK!!! March 25, 1989. 
Monday, April 3, 3:00pm BUY TICKETS IN ANY OF THE Vote MARCIE and JULIE Tour Memorial Hospital's new DORMS! NO TICKETS WILL BE SOLD Lost: Brown leather jacket at NAZZ. Last MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS NIGHT
B.P. Co-Presidents for 89-90 birthing room, nursery, and AT THE DOOR SO BUY THEil

TICKETS 
name MRUZ in back. Please call Lisa AT SENOR KELLY'SThe FUN and TRADITION continue!!! pediatric floor. If interested TODAY!!I!!REMEMBER THERE ARE A x1338. 
call Lynn at X3194 before Sun. LIMITED AMOUNT OF FREE BOXERS I need Grad. tix 288-4160 
FEATURING: THE STONE PUPPIES
SCAP ..... The Word of the Future!!! Use WITH THE PURCHASE OF A LOST: AEROBIE between SMC 'brare THE STONE PUPPIES THE STONE
it NOW!! TICKET!!!!I!!! 
and dining hall on Easter PUPPIES
MONEY MONEY MONEY PREMEDS: tour Memorial Hospital's
Monday. 11 found, PLEASE call SATURDAY NIGHT 10:00
I NEED GRADUATION TIX and I can SEAN & THE SUN KINGS new birthing room, nursery andSATURDAY NIGHT 10:00
Pany at 284·4198 or leave at make it worth your while, call Dan at Friday at Club 23 pediatric floor Mon April 3 at 3pm If in· 
Regina Hall desk. Reward off 

3365. Live Acoustic Music terested call Lynn X3194. 
SMC FRESHMAN FORMALeredl!!!l!' 

SEAN & THE SUN KINGS "APRIL SHOWERS"
NOTHING TO DO AFTER THE NCAA'S? 
··································· ........ . 
NOTHING TO DO AFTER THE NCAA'S? 
NEED GRADUATION TIX! WILL PAY$$. 
TO THE MAN WITH A CANE,LOST-Black SEIKO watch the Thurs NOTHING TO DO AFTER THE NCAA'S? 
CALL 2n·9750. Cavanaugh Hall Product1ons ANYTIME YOU WANT TO COM­
night before Spring Break, most likely at WATCH THE STONE PUPPIES 
············· presents TEMPLATE 
Bridget's. $REWARD$-x1142 WATCH THE STONE PUPPIES
WE NEED A MIRACLE!!!!! AT LEAST 2 Woody Allen's HOOSIER ARTWORK, GIVE ME A FRIDAY, APRIL 7 TIX WANTED FOR SHOWS IN LOUIS­
DON'T DRINK THE WATER CALL 
FOUND: One eK!remely revealing Spnng VILLE AND CINCINNATI. CALL DAN OR AT SENOR KELLY'S SAT. 10.·00 ATThursday-Friday-Saturday MAYBE I'LL TELL YOU THE HOURS LAST DAY TO BUY TICKETS!!!!! 
Break photo outside NOH. Positive 10 to CHRIS AT 4079 OR LEAVE MESSAGE. SENOR KELLY'S SAT. 10.·00
Library Auditorium FOR claim. Bleached blondes only need bot­
7:30p.m. THE JACCUZZI! her. D1screetly reply here. need TIX for KENNY G! 1297 or 1332 AdmiSSion: FREE STONE PUPPIES LIVE LIVE LIVE!!!! SINCERELY, YQ-YO LABELL , .....................-....................................-.. SENOR KELLY'S SAT. NIGHT 10:00 
LOST: Pair of keys. FSU and Notre Dame 
come by after the NCAA's keychains. Call lC4025 if found. •••sENIORs••• To my scope in NOH wearing a white On Mar. 30th Valerie R. Lukas e)(peri· 
JOIN US TUESDAY, APRIL4 HELP RAISE MONEY FOR MULTIPLE hat and faded jeans. Happy four months. enced an idenity crisis; no longer was

I PERSONALS I
FOUND: Set of keys in room 215 O'Shag. 
ALL YOU CAN EAT AT BARNABY'S SCLEROSIS! Stanford-stud. I love you the most. Only she Joanna. Gasp. Happy 21st. Val. On A Un1versity of Notre Dame Keychain­FROM 5-7 eight years and e~ght months to go. Sat. our favorite April baby(no fooling) room 309. Call # 3688 to claim. 
CW--"You're so good to me" Your baby and jokestress Kim Mahoney will turn 2'1. NELBUD!! A retreat may be sweet Look out!!! Welcome to the "club" ladies. WE ARE ONE WORLD but forget all my jargon I've left the 8th We love you. The Gang N[}SMC CHARITY BALL open We'll dance the night POWMIAIVETERANS VIGILFOR RENT hlag away,BARGAIN? 8:00am to 7:50pm w1th THE GROOVE At the Grotto SUMMER JOBS PW and PE spirit week is coming!! Get This Sunday, April 2 
Z BALLSWEEN TED WEEK Updllte:BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 

ALL LANDWATER SPORTS South Dining Hall psyched for lots of fun next week!!! 
Tomorrow is their special day, but our 2219-291-7153. 

PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS booths from around the world Fools for Love are still fighting over the 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS semi-formal All in favor say Aye...CONGRATS Cl POWMIAIVETERANS SERVICE 
biankets. Call them at 3410 tonight and 

NEAR LAKE PLACID tix at LaFortune info desk You're now a DEMOCRATIC VIRGIN! 8:00pm at the War Memorial 
tell them to keep the racket down. 

NICE FURNISHED HOUSES NEAR NO. CALL 1-BG0-343-8373 $1 0 couple $6 single ••••• Yes. you too can be a virgin... Just This Sunday, April 2 287-6389, 683-8889. TAKE A VOTE! 

---~---~~--~ 

-----------------------------------------------------~--~----~--~------~ 
page 14 


SPORTS BRIEFS 

The 7 -foot Jordan Jammer Mini-Hoops Tournament will have registrations Monday, April 3, from 7 to 9 p.m., in SUB office in Lafortune. The field is limited to 50, 3-person teams. The champi­onship will be held before the Bookstore finals. Call Tim Healy at 277-1180 for more information -The Observer 
Off-Campus needs baseball players for its game this weekend. Call Chris at 277-7387 or Pete at 271-8311 for more information. -The Observer 
Off-campus lacrosse will practice at 4 p.m. Friday at Cartier Field. The next game is Tuesday, April4, at 9 p.m. against Dillon. Call Bill at 287-5758 for more information. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball begins this Sunday at 2 p.m. with the Hall of Fame game. The game, played behind the bookstore, features Lou Holtz, Monk Malloy, Tony Rice, Dick Rosenthal and Bubba Cunningham against the Primitive Bush­men. -The Observer 
The Sailing Club is hosting the Notre Dame Freshman Icebreaker this weekend on St. Joe's Lake with 15 schools participating. Racing will take place Saturday from 9 a.m. to 4:30p.m. and Sunday from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. -The Observer 
The NO Pom Pon team will hold its first clinic for the 1989-90 tryouts on Sunday, April 2, in gym 1 of the Joyce Ace from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. Tryouts begin April 3 from 6 to 9 p.m in the Joyce ACC Pit. Call Lisa at x4304 or Julie at x4231 for more information -The Observer 
Records fall at NCAA meet 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS--Sopho­more David Wharton of South­ern California set an Ameri­can, U.S. Open and NCAA record of 1 minute, 44.70 seconds in successfully defend­ing his championship in the 200­

.., yard individual medley at the 
; 
men's NCAA swimming and Diving Championships on Thursday.

r Wharton trailed Ron Kar­naugh of California for most of the event, catching him on the 
I last 50-yards to top the former records of 1:45.00 that had been set by William Barrett of UCLA
I 
in 1982. Karnaugh finished 

second in 1:45.77. · 1 Records were also set in two I other events as the meet began 
at the Indiana University Natatorium. 
Freshman Artur Wojdat of Iowa set an NCAA and U.S. Open record in the 500-yard freestyle. 
Wojdat, the Olympic bron~e medalist in the 400-meter frees­tyle, trailed Arizona's Mariusz Podkoscielny, a teammate on the Polish Olympic team last year, for most of the race. He caught him on the final 100 yards to win in 4: 12.24. 

Podkoscielsny finished second at 4: 13.08, slightly slower than the American, U.S. Open and meet mark of 4: 13.06 set by Southern Cal's Michael O'Brien in 1985. O'Brien will retain the American mark since only an American can set it. 
California's Sean Killion was third at 4: 15.45 with defending champion John Witchel of Stan­ford placing fourth at 4:15.63. 
Texas, favored to success­

. fully defend its championship at the three-day meet, won the opening event by setting an American record of 1:18.44 in the 200-yard freestyle. The event is new to the meet this year and topped the American and U.S. Open mark of 1: 18.55 set by Mission Viejo in 1981. 
The Observer Friday, March 31, 1989 
Illinois reaches Final Four
. 

despite past NCAA failures 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE--Illinois arrived at the Final Four Thursday, two hours late according to the clock and at least two years late according to the critics. 
But that's OK with Lou Hen­son, whose rather unorthodox thinking says he must be a good coach even if he didn't always win when people expected him to. 
Henson doesn't take it per­sonally and insists he doesn't feel vindicated now that, after a pair of embarrassing stumbles the past two seasons, his team is in the Final Four. 
"You have to remember this: they say that about anybody with good teams," Henson said after the Fighting Illini arrived in Seattle. 
"If you get to the NCAAs like we have the last nine or 10 years and you don't get in the Final Four, sooner or later they're going to say 'Can the coach get them there?''' he said. 
Two seasons ago, Henson's team was stunned in the first round by Austin Peay. Last year, it was a second-round loss to Villanova. 
For seven straight seasons, the Illini made the NCAA tourn­ament butfell short of the Final Four. 
But this year, the team won the Midwest Region, beating Syracuse 89-86 in the final in Minneapolis to become the only No. 1 seed to make it to Seattle. The third-ranked Illini, 31-4, meet Big Ten Conference rival Michigan, a team they already have beaten twice, in the semi­finals Saturday at the Kingdome. 
Illinois is making its first Final Four appearance in 37 years, but Henson is making his second. His New Mexico State team lost to eventual champion UCLA in the semi­finals in 1970. 
The coach discounts his ex­perience as a factor. 
"I think the experience of your players and how they play is the key," he said. "The ex­perience of the coaches, I don't think, has a lot to do with it because most coaches know how to handle a team in a sit­uation like this. It's just getting players who have the experi­ence to handle all the hype." 
For one week this season, the Illini were the top-ranked team in the country, so they're no strangers to pressure. 
"I think us being ranked No. 1 back in January really helped us because we were exposed to a lot of hype at that time," Hen­son said. 
The same day Illinois made it to the top of the poll for the first time since 1953, the team lost guard Kendall Gill with a broken left foot. He missed 12 games, and the Illini lost four of them~ 
The team is unbeaten with Gill in the lineup. 

Golf team finishes third in ·tourney 
Special to the Observer 

The Notre Dame women's golf team finished third in a field of five teams at the Uni­versity of Indianapolis Invi­tational Thursday at the Sarah Shank Golf Course in Indianapolis. 
Host Indianapolis won the tournament with a score of 347. DePauw finished second at 366, and the Irish were just behind at 371. 
Miami (Ohio) trailed Notre Dame by only three strokes at 374, while Franklin College rounded out the field at 391. 
Carolyn Burke led all Irish golfers with a round of 90 on the 18-hole course. Kerrie Wagner was right on her heels at 91, and Liz Poder completed the day with a score of 93. Kristin Kolesar 
(97) and Melissa Houk (101) also competed in the event. 
Indianapolis' Candi Kol­dyce shot the lowest score of the day with a spectacular round of 82. 

Spread the News/ 
Mike Kraft 
is finally 21! 




The Observer page 15 




Person's play quiets critics, delights Pacer teammates 
double team him, he's good at hitting the open man and we're just playing off his potential." 
Person likes the club's new attitude and anticipates better

G005IE 
days are ahead with the return of 7 -foot Steve Stipanovich, who

tiAPPY 21st 5-DAY 
has missed the entire season 
due to knee problems. "We're all looking forward to 

Love and kisses, 
Mom @ Dad. Jay @ Qocy. Brian. Mark 0 Kathy, 
next season. We'll have Stipo back and we're going to have a good draft choice. We're win­

Terry(6 Cathy. Michael, Chris, Amanda 0 Matt. 
6pike (6 Qex.. Tuffy. Harlow. &hnooks. Mum. 
ning and the key to winning is

A public service message from The Observer
and most of all 
making everyone happy'" he says.


Your Loverboy 
Laurie, 
The



DANNY 

To Our Best 
Observer 

L'il Athlete 
Rocco's Hair 


[[ ADWOKKS )j 
Happy 

Styling



Birthday! 
Now accepting applications for: 
Love, 
531 N .Michigan St. 

Dad, Mom, Mike 
Phone 233-4957

and P.J. too!
Vice President Client Services 
Students Against Multiple
--Vice President Finance 


Sclerosis 
and 
--Sales Manager 


Senor Kelly's 
Presents the 
Applications can be picked up 





"Stone Puppies"
at secretary's desk on 2nd floor 
10:00 p.m. Saturday, April 1st
of LaFortune, and are due on WednesdRy, April 5th at 5:00. 

Come By after the NCAA tournament 


Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS--Dick Ver­sace had heard the stories that Chuck Person was selfish, brash and cocky. That didn't deter him from making Person the man to lead the Indiana Pacers. 
"Every day he works. When I came here and looked at the tapes, that's what I saw. I had heard all the stories, but I decided I wasn't going to listen to all that. I saw a player that I could develop into a good healthy professional," says Versace. 
That decision, along with two key trades, appears to be paying off for the Pacers and Person. Indiana was officially eliminated from the playoffs Wednesday night, a destiny the team started toward by losing its first nine games en route to a 6-23 start before Versace took command. 
The Pacers won their first three games under Versace, but the honeymoon ended quickly, followed by losing streaks of five and 11 games. However, victories in five of the last six games have revived optimism for the future. 
"The guys have adjusted to the way we want to play and we're happy with the effort of the franchise to turn things around," says Person, who has led Indiana in scoring in seven of its last eight games, includ­ing three games with 30 or more points. 
Person had 31 in Tuesday's 
96-89 victory over Miami, 
bringing his average for the 
season to 21.8. The 1986-87 NBA 
rookie of the Year has led the 
Pacers in scoring 34 times and 
been the club's top rebounder 
19 times while averaging 6.8 
per game. f 
"I think Chuck is evolving 
into an All-Star. He's getting 
the good numbers (points) 
every night. ... He's a solid 
defender. Some nights he'll 
come out and give you good 
numbers off the boards," Ver­
sace said. 
"We've got to max out what he can do and get the other guys to accept him and try to teach him a little bit about how to be a leader, how to deal with the media and how to be concerned with his image," Versace con­tinued. "His image has been exemplary. He's a competitor, he's been a producer. 
"He's been a very good leader. You've got to give credit where credit is due. He's been excellent with his team­mates and you've got to give the teammates credit too be­cause they're accepting his leadership. They trust him. They like to give him the ball in the crunch." 
That wasn't the case before Herb Williams and Wayman Tisdale were sent packing in deals that brought Randy Wit­tman, Detlef Schrempf and LaSalle Thompson to Indiana. 
"We just had a lot of offensive-minded people on our squad," Person said. "I don't think we had any selfish players before the trades. It's just the fact that everyone thought they could get the job done and they tried. You can't blame anyone for trying." 
"I don't know how it was before but from day one we've been getting along well, on and off the court," says Schremp£, who has led Indiana in scoring three times and in rebounds five times since coming from Dallas 19 games ago. 
"We are counting on him to score a lot of points. A lot of our plays go to him and he's getting a lot of shots. I think everyone is comfortable with that because we know when he's going to shoot, so we can crash the board. And other times, when he gets doubled up, we know he's willing to pass the ball up," Schrempf said. 
Person is shooting just over 49 percent and wants to bring his mark up above 50. 
"I have a job to do. I know my role on this basketball team and I'm going to go out and try and do it every night. Some nights it's not going to look pretty, some nights I'm not going to get it done," he says. "But my job is to put the ball in the hoop and to lead this bas­ketball team and to hope my teammates have enough confi­dence in me." 
"We know he's capable of playing good basketball,'' says guard Vern Fleming. "He's the team's focus on offense. We know we're going to go to him and we don't have to rush and take bad shots. And if they 


page 16 The Observer Friday, March 31, 198~ 

Women's tennis likes March 

By VIC LOMBARDI Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's tennis team wishes the month of March would come around more often. 
The squad (10-4) concluded the month by posting an im­pressive 7-1 mark and is riding a six-game win streak. 
I 
i' ~~ Head coach Michele Gelfman hopes to extend the
~ 
1 streak as the Irish play host to ~ SIU-Edwardsville today at 4 
p.m. and Eastern Michigan on Sunday at 9 a.m. This weekend's contests open a five­match homestand against Mid­west region competition.
i.. "We're on a roll right now,"
! h Gelfman says, "but it's going to take a great deal of intensity to keep at our pace. The team is playing really sharp. If we win this weekend, I think it's going to push us right through April. The way we have our schedule arranged right now, it gets progressively harder as we go along. But we have to concentrate on taking them one at a time." 
The Irish will be without the services of Kristy Doran at number-four singles, whose knee-injury has sidelined her for an unknown period. Fresh­man Tyler Musleh will step into the number-four spot and Kim Pacella will replace Doran as Katie Clark's partner in the number-two doubles position. 
"It will take some of the strength out of our singles lineup,'' Gelfman says. "But it's more advantageous to push players up and give them an opportunity to gain some expe­rience. We've gone to split practices this week, so everybody had a chance to put more time in.'' 
As a Division II school, SIU­Edwardsville has won the last three national championships and was the pre-season number-one team in the country. The Lady Cougars (5­
6) are led by a pair of three­time singles and doubles All­Americans in Portia George and Christina Bokeland. Last season, the Irish lost to SIU 6-3. 
"People tend to underes­timate them just because they're Division II," says Gelfman, who is 59-38 in her fourth year at Notre Dame. "They are as good as at least seven out of the ten Big Ten schools that we play. George and Bokelund are both seasoned veterans. They've been on the team for at least three years and they're very consistent.'' 
The Irish are led by number­one singles player CeCe Cahill, whose 19-5 record and number­62 ranking place her in conten­tion for a second-straight NCAA tournament invitation. Cahill will be aiming to avenge last year's singles loss to George. 
In doubles competition, a competitive match-up will pit the Irish number-one team of Cahill and Tracy Barton against the Lady Cougar's 
Oklahoma State's Sanders decides to pursue pro career 
Associated Press 

OKLAHOMA CITY--Reis­man Trophy winner Barry Sanders notified the NFL Thursday that he is · turning pro, setting up a possible test of the league's policy against drafting underclassmen. 
"We have received a request from Barry Sanders for special eligibility in the draft," NFL spokesman Joe Browne said in New York. 
In Stillwater, Oklahoma State athletic director Myron Roderick confirmed the junior running back's decision after Sanders scheduled a news con­ference in Denver Saturday.
! "He's through. ... We are 
declaring him ineligible for::
1989," Roderick said. "We're 
100 percent behind. him and we'll be watching him as he • developsasapro.He'sagreat.
kid and has done a great job • 
..................... .
fur~." : 
THE FIRST Amendment protects 
even the Pope. A judge ruled that 
Catholicrights in University Fatherwithin
stripping was Charlesits Curran, the Hefnerite moral theo­
logian, of his tenure. Curran says
it leaves him "saddened." Why? 
John Paul II and likeminded peo­

~~~r~:.' toFa~~~~ control of their Curran remains For an introduc:­ru:e to start one tor~ _IS·issue sub-
Of hl·s own sc:npuon to NA· . TIONAl REVIEW ror just $17.95, call .._____• 800-222·6806. 
What likely figured in · drafted. 
Sanders' decision is Oklahoma State's probation for recruiting violations. The NCAA banned the university from bowl games for three years and from television appearances for two. 
Sanders' status with the NFL, however, is not clear. 
A true junior, he is ineligible for either the regular or sup­plemental drafts without a spe­cial exemption from Commis­sioner Pete Rozelle. Browne said Rozelle has granted about six of those exemptions a year for the past 20 years, mostly to players who were never 
The most recent was last year when Pitt's Craig Heyward was allowed to enter the draft with a year of eligibility remaining and was taken in the first round by New Orleans. In Heyward's case and others, Rozelle has cited the possibility that if he turned down the request, it might be challenged in court. 
Rozelle declined to comment during last week's NFL owners' meeting on Sanders' status, but Browne said Thursday: 
"His application will be 
e • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
Apri·l Perm Speci·al 
e 
e 

•• 3/L~ '' barrel curli•ng ··ron or a defuser. 
e 
• • • 
• 
• 

Receive your choice 
~ee
wtith a full periYY)
" I I (1­
university Hair Stylists 
. 9-9 M-F 
9 4 s t 
-
a 




Would you like to be in a Video for Notre Dame? 
We need a crowd on the steps of the _Administration Building at 
3: 15-prn, Friday March 31. 



BE THERE! 
:: 
• 
~·· 


.


:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
e 
•
• 
e
• • 
T;ler Musleh 
and Barton are 15-2 overall and are ranked 20th in the nation. 
Eastern Michigan carries a 6-7 record into Sunday's dual­match against Notre Dame. The Irish hold a 4-3 series ad­vantage, including a 6-3 home win last year. 
"Eastern Michigan has upgraded their program and they could be tough,'' Gelfman says. "Their number-one player (Marta Varanda) plays a European style. It should be an intersting match-up be­tween her and CeCe." 

PREGNANT 
MOTHERS: 
PLEASE 


DOWISMOKE! 
tAII4ERICAN CANC£R SOCIETY' 

reviewed by this office and while there is no timetable for a decision, the decision will be made by Commissioner Rozelle prior to the April 23 regular draft." 

Other NFL sources, however, have indicated the league is more inclined to go to court now to test its rules against drafting underclas­smen. 
Happy 21st 

ANITA MARIE 
Love, The Folks Back Home 



Friday, March 31, 1989 The Observer page 17 

ND softball starts 
Men's track ready for Hoyas
busy homestand 
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 
The women's softball team proved that it could make an impact in the Mid­western Collegiate Confer­ence as the Irish split a doubleheader on Wednesday against defending MCC champs, Detroit. 
The only thing that the players knew heading into the matchup was that they would have to play well, and they did. They took the first game by a score of 2-0, and were nipped in the second game, 6-5. 
Missy Linn continued to pitch extremely well for the Irish, collecting the win in the first game. Linn did not accumulate many strikeouts, but she was ef­fective enough to record the shutout. 
The hitting star for Notre 

Dame in the game was 
Megan Fay, who drove in 
Ruth Kmak for the first run. 
The other Irish run was 
scored by Mia Faust, who 
stole home on an error. 
The second game was 

frustrating for the team. 
Leading 5-1 going into the 
bottom of the sixth inning, 
Linn allowed five runs 
before the game was called 
because of darkness. Notre 
Dame Coach Brian Boulac 
made the decision to end the 
game because the conditions 
were too dangerous for play. 
Hitting hilights for the Irish included a home run by Rachel Crossen, and two hits each for Ruth Kmak and Amy Fulson. 
The second game exposed a key weakness of the Irish team, the lack of pitching support behind Linn. 
"We can't afford to pitch Missy Linn every game," Boulac said. "We're hoping that Barb Mooney comes around, or Amy Raczkowski.'' 
The most important result of the doubleheader against Detroit is that Notre Dame (9-7) gained confidence, and learned that it can compete with established programs, even though the Irish have had varsity status for only two years. 
"It proves that when we're on, we can play with anybody," Boulac said. 
Notre Dame has a busy weekend coming up, as the players will have to play eight games in four days. 
All of the contests will be at home, beginning today with a doubleheader against Loyola, another MCC team. 
"We are really improving, and we get stronger every week," Boulac said. "We're hitting the ball with more confidence, and hopefully our pitching will continue to develop." 
By KEN TYSIAC Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's track team travels to Georgetown this Saturday for a dual meet against one of the best teams in the east. This will be the first competitive outdoor meet for the Irish this spring, and it should be a good one. 
The Hoyas are the defending Big East outdoor champions and have captured the Big East indoor title the past two years, so they are accustomed to win­ning big meets. With athletes such as John Trautman and Dan Dachelet, who won the Meyo Mile and the 1,000 meters, respectively, in this winter's Meyo Invitational at Notre Dame, the Hoyas present a formidable opponent for the Fighting Irish 
According to Coach Joe Piane, in order to be successful the Irish need to score some points in the field events. 


Dilucia 
continued from page 20 
hens, he would be the first Irish player since 1982 to make the trip. The last Irish player was Mark McMahon, who went 27-2 that year and fell to the even­tual champion m the first round. Bayliss believes that DiLucia has a good chance, yet must keep everything in per­spective. 
''If we can score in the jumps, the discus and the shot put," says Piane, "we will be on the right track." 
Most importantly, however, the Irish need to score in the middle distance events. In ad­dition to Trautman and Dac­helet, Georgetown boasts an NCAA-qualifying two-mile relay team, so they have six excellent athletes m their middle distance lineup. Piane feels that if his striders can score in these events, they will be in good shape this weekend. 
Notre Dame appears to be pretty healthy entering this meet. Mark Lavery, coming off an achilles tendon injury, and Ron Markezich look good in practice, according to Piane. 
"Ron Markezich looks fan­tastic," says Piane. "Ron may be in better shape than any middle distance runner I've had in 15 years." 
"I've always felt that if our 
''I am hoping David makes the NCAA," said Bayliss. "He definitely should be there, but that doesn't mean he will. I believe that you worry about execution and let the results follow. You can't control the NCAA's." 
Execution is exactly what the No. 1 player will have to do if he wants to shoot down the Car­dinals of Ball St. on Saturday. The Irish will try to end a two-team could stay healthy, we could be a very good team," says Irish co-captain Yan Searcy. ''I had a rough indoor season myself, as far as injur­ies go, but I'm ready to go this weekend. 
"As a team, we are looking strong. David Warth and Mark Lavery will be tough in the 800 meters, Pete Demeo is coming on strong in the hurdles, and two of our javelin throwers, Ron Regnery and freshman John Stewart, both qualified for IC4A's last weekend in their first meet." 
"We may have a tough time replacing Rusty Setzer and Raghib Ismail (now in spring football practice) in the sprints, but Tracy Sims has been running well lately and should help pick up the slack. Xavier Victor and Jeff Smith could go at least 24 feet in the long jump, which will give us a boost, and of course, Ron Markezich is going to be in­credible this spring." 
year losing streak, including a 2-7loss at the Eck Pavilion. On paper, the Cardinals look to be more than a formidable op­ponent. 
"They are competitive and extremely well-coached," said Bayliss. "They will fight us tooth and nail. They are not any more talented than we are, but they believe they can win. They have a great attitude on the court." 

Post-it ·Note Pads 3 pack 
$.99 

p~ge 18 The Observer Friday, March 31, 1989 

The Observer I Scott McCann 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team hopes to maintain the momentum it picked up Wednesday in Its impressive victory over Air Force when It takes on Wooster Saturday In a key western match. 




Irish lacrosse faces Wooster following win over Air Force 
By PETE LaFLEUR Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame lacrosse team seeks to continue its win­ning ways when it opens its Midwest Lacrosse Association schedule Saturday at Wooster College in Wooster, Ohio. 
The Irish (3-3) have won three straight games and will be trying to maintain the inten­sity which propelled them past Air Force Wednesday in a game that had NCAA tourna­ment implications. That win placed Notre Dame at the head of the race for the NCAA West­ern bid, with key games still to come in . the last week of the season against Michigan State and Ohio State. 
"After beating Air Force, we're back to 'ground zero.' And we've got a leg up on the tournament, so we're ready to roll," said Irish head coach Kevin Corrigan. "But we can't afford to have a letup. Wooster will be as competitive as all our games have been." 
The Irish hold a 6-1 series ad­vantage over the Fighting Scots and have won the last four games, including a 14-4 win last season. But according to Corrigan, the Scots have the potential to give the Irish prob­lems. 
"Wooster is not real deep, but they have six good offensive players who will give us a lot of trouble," he said. "They have a lot of young players with a lot of speed, which could be a problem. We'll need to get up on them early.'' 
The Irish will again look to their defense to set the tone. The Notre Dame defense has held every opponent under 10 goals this year, averaging just over seven goals allowed per game. And according to senior tri-captain Kevin O'Connor, the defense is increasing its ex­pectations. 

Brian McHugh 
"Our object all year has been to keep every team under 10 goals, and we knew that against Air Force it would take a little bit more," O'Connor said. "(Irish defensive) co­ach (Gerry) Byrne told us we'd have to keep Air Force under eight goals and we did it,'' he continued, referring to the 10-7 Irish victory over the Falcons. "That's just a complement to the whole defense and how we're working well as a group." 
Corrigan agreed with O'Connor that the defense can continue to hold down the op­position. 
"We'd even like to lower our sights (on goals allowed)," Corrigan said. "We've proven we can hold teams down and now we'll try to turn the heat up a little bit. 
"We've been playing well defensively, and hopefully we can take advantage of those op­portunities (and transfer them) to the offensive end." 
The Irish offensive end will again look to their leading scorers at attack, senior tri­captain John Olmstead (13 goals and four assists) and junior Brian McHugh (11 goals and six assists) . Umstead will enter the game with 124 career points and is poised to pass 1984 graduate Steve Pearsall 025) into third place on the all-time Irish scoring list. 
The Irish midfield will be led by the improved play of junior Mike Quigley. Entering the season, Quigley had 20 career points, but he has already tallied 14 points this year, in­cluding six goals and four as­sists in the last two games. 
The Irish will return home for a game April 8 against Kenyon. They then go on the road for games against Lake Forest and Denison before hosting Ohio Wesleyan, one of the top teams in the country, on April22. 

Baseball 
continued from page 20 
Piotrowicz has emerged as the ace with a 1.91 ERA and 3-2 record, including Wednesday's 10-strikeout performance 


, I against Chicago State. "I've been really pleased with Piotrowicz because he's improving with every outing," said Murphy. "Madsen's kind 

of stuck right now, Passilla is very good when he's on, and Conway's a freshman who's just learning. 

"Conway had better grow up in a hurry because he's going 
to get a bunch of starts." 

Conway, who holds a 2-1 record with a 5.06 ERA, is the only lefthander in the regular rotation. 
Junior outfielder Dan Peltier, senior outfielder James Sass and senior shortstop Pat Pesavento continue to lead the Irish at the plate. Sass has been particularly effective recently, batting 12-of-22 with 15 RBis in his last six games to raise his average to .390. 
Murphy also is impressed with the play of first baseman Joe Binkiewicz, who is batting around .300 as a freshman, and several of the team's role players. 
"Binkiewicz is doing a great job, Frank Jacobs is making an unbelievable commitment playing both baseball and foot­ball, Pat Eilers has been very good and Cory Mee has done everything we've asked of him," said Murphy. "Jason Martinez is really hitting in the clutch for us against lefthanded pitching, and Tommy Allen's been a great role player." 
LINCOLNWOOD MOTEL 
ACCEPTING RESERVATIONS 
for National Conference 
May 12.13.14 and Notre Dame Graduation 
(219) 234-4063 

Add some excitement to your Senior Formal with Tuxedos from Louie's 
8 LACK CLASSIC 
$32.50* 

DESIGNER BLACK TUXEDOS 
$49.95* 
Choose from: 
Christian Dior Pierre Cardin Yves Saint Laurent Robert Wagner 
Formal Peg Pants 

Designer Shirts & Vests 


lAST Ywt 7,514 HIGH SCHOOl STUDEm STOPPED DRIIKIIG AND DRIVING. 

Sophomores and Freshmen 

PHILOSOPHY: Meet Your Majors 
Sunday, APRIL 2nd 
8:00-9:00 pm Room 104 O'SHAG Refreshments Served 
For further information contact: Prof. Tom Morris Room 337 O'SHAG, 7534 

University Park Mall 
272-2486 ·e's has 


style!

Lou• your

*Does nor include damage waiver fee or e•tra cnarge items. 

Friday, March 31, 1989 The Observer page 19 

CAMPUS 
FRIDAY, MARCH 31 Noon Notre Dame Women's Softball vs. WisconsinGreenbay. 6 p.m.-9:30p.m. Snite Museum Gala Reception Opening "Hol­lywood Glamour, 1924-1956" exhibition, Museum Atrium. 7 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "East Parade," Annenberg Auditorium. 9 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film "Tarzan the Ape Man," Annenberg Auditorium. 
SUNDAY, APRIL 2 
9 a.m. Notre Dame Women's Tennis vs. Eastern Michigan, Courtney Courts. 
Noon Notre Dame Women's Softball vs. McHenry College. 4 p.m. Notre Dame Department of Music, "Continuum," Twentieth Century Music Ensemble, Annenberg Auditorium .. 
8 & 10:30 p.m. "Cocktail," Engineering Auditorium. 8 p.m. ND Communication and Theatre Film, "Sherman's March," Annenberg Auditorium. 
SATURDAY, APRIL 1 
9 a.m. Notre Dame Women's Tennis vs. SIU Edwardsville, Courtney Courts. 

COMICS 
Bloom County 

NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 What a dieter 45 Actor Baldwin must avoid
1 Stylish 46 Successful 32 Prettiest girl at dieter's rewards
5 Hooked nail 

the ball 9 Organ knob 52 Rent 
33 Port in Uruguay

13 Amneris's rival 53 Upper crust
34 Con's sentence 
14 Fenced 54 French waters35 Ares' sister 

16 Fanon 

56 Dies-­17 Stare 
36 Las--. Cuban 
province 57 Stair part 18 Very, to Verdi 37 Othello's ensign 58 Soprano Gluck

19 "To-and a 
38 Drivers' gp. 

bone. "· 59 Trapper's trophy
Kipling 39 Abalone 60 u~gee et La
20 Dieter's hope 40 Group of eight Mediterranee 
23 Neb. Siouan 41 See 27 Across 61 Track event 
24 Ship's course 43 Moslem prince 25 Ploy against 44 Frequently, to Troy Poe DOWN 
1 Deerstalker, e.g. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 2 Sped3 Pierre's notion 
4 See 27 Across 
5 Floral bract 

6 Former title for a Turkish offic1al 
7 Bes1des 25 Caravansary 33 Japanese 45 Succeeding 8 Unheeding 26 Sacra's joiner wrestling 46 Tunnel 27 Made with cloth 36 Harness-racing 47 Russian river 
DINNER MENUS  
Notre Dame Meatless Cheeseburger Swiss Steak Batter Fried Perch  Saint Mary's Turkey Cutlet Pork Sukiyaki-Rice Manicotti  
RotellinitSpr. veg.  Deli Bar  

9 Bogyman 
sections horse 48 Worthless 10 Caustic 28 Winged 37 See 27 Across 49 French river 11 Red-fleshed fish 291ncensed 39 Switch positions so Asimov product 
12 Identify 30 Impatiently 40 Sacred Chinese 51 Scottish longing mountain philosopher 31 Recognize 42 Avespid 52 Cant 21 Craze 
32 Policeman, in 43 "-Tune," 55 Carved totem 22 Division word CB lingo 1941 hit song pole 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

~ 1981 CtuoniCfe Futurea 
Orstnbuted by UniVefHI Press Syndicate 




Jerks Bob Mclaughlin & Kevin McKay 
Y'OU L OUT THE WINDOw 
lJ H A~€ HiE URC.E TO
SPRING FE VE R~ ! ~ 
iN THE MORNING AIIID SMILE ATOP !,TONEHENG£ HOLY £(WINO!'-. KEVl If 
INS HAD OF BARFIN& •.• wEARtNc. NOTiiiNG. BuT ASMILE 
IT LOOKS A BIT

SURE IS NICE AND SUNNY 
DA I'IP OIJ T THERE 

LATELY. GOLL'I' GOSrl WOW. 
TOI>4'1'. C. OOD FOR 
THE CROPS~ 


.. 
"Yes, yes ... now don't fuss ... I have something for you all." 
-





American Values IAmerican Film 
fri, march 31 sat, april1 mon, april3 
Discussion with Panel Discussion with 

Martin Gene 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::~:=:::::::
@ • a .• o o • o .0 ..o o'.
. . . .
O. ·c.···.k···t·a·. . ·· .11·... . 
··=·=·=· 
.. . . .. . . .. .. . .... .. . . . . . .
.. . .. .. ... .. .. ... . . . .. ..... . 
..... . .. . ....... . . . . . . . . .. 
-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-: 


Sheen Siskel 
Tues, April 4 Thurs, April 6 
Tickets for both discussions available at LaFortune Info Desk
all events at Cushing Auditorium 
sponsored by 

-
College of Business Administration, Departments of English,American Studies, Student ~ Sociology,Comm.&Theater,Marketing, Educational Media Government 
~ 

r . ­
r 
! ,: 


\' 
( 
t 
1­
H 
'l 
\ 
; 
I 
{ 
I 
I 
l 
\ 
f l 
I 
~ ~ 
I 
i 

..­
f 
l 
!' 
' 
<1
rI· 
-·
lr 
; 
!I 
;: 
u
., 
( 
I 






Sports
page 20 Friday, March 31, 1989 
Baseball team on road again with four games at St. Louis 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Associate Sports Editor 
Don't be surprised if a few Notre Dame baseball players start waxing nostalgic during their four-game series at Saint Louis this weekend. 
The Billikens are in about the same stage as Notre Dame teams of years past. After a string of disappointing seasons, new Saint Louis coach Bill Hughes is trying to trans­form the program under diffi­cult circumstances. 
Notre Dame (2-0 in the Mid­west Collegiate Conference, 13­5 overall) faces its MCC rival in doubleheaders both Satur­day and Sunday at Sauget Field. 
''They have a new coach and a lot of enthusiasm," said Irish coach Pat Murphy; "Our phi­losophy is not to worry about the opponent and just do what we do well, and everything will work out." 
That advice certainly has worked well for Notre Dame. In Murphy's first year, the Irish recorded a 39-22 record for their first winning season since 1982. 
Hughes' task at Saint Louis may be even more imposing. Billiken baseball has been an oxymoron the last two years, as Saint Louis has posted a combined record of 18-69. 
Saint Louis held a 5-10 record heading into Thursday's doubleheader with Chicago State. Eighth-ranked Okla­homa State swept a three-game series from the Billikens last weekend. 
Senior first baseman Phil Kumnick leads Saint Louis in batting with a .386 average, and he also has hit four home runs with 13 runs batted in. Junior outfielder Tom Stegman has a .321 average, and senior out­fielder Mike Miller bats .295 with 14 RBI and a team-leading eight stolen bases. 

Hughes also works as the St. Louis Cardinals' batting prac­tice pitcher, and the Billikens' pitchers have looked like they were serving up batting prac­tice to their opponents too many times this season. Saint Louis sports a team earned run average of 9.37, and Oklahoma State trashed the Billikens 21-6 in one of last weekend's games. 
Scott Hollrah, a righthanded freshman reliever, leads the Saint Louis staff with a 1-0 record, two saves and a 3.21 ERA. 
Notre Dame will throw its regular rotation of Brian Piotrowicz, Erik Madsen, Mike Passilla and Brian Conway at Saint Louis this weekend. 
see BASEBALL, page 18 


.I 
TQe Observer I Paul Compton 
The Notre Dame baseball team travels to Saint Louis this weekend to take on the Billikens in a pair of doubleheaders. The Irish are coming off a resounding 7-1 victory Wednesday over Chicago State. 
Dilucia makes mark for NO tennis 
By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer 

MUNCIE--Where would Notre Dame tennis be without 
. superfrosh Dave DiLucia? 
·" Thankfully, Head Coach Bob Bayliss does not have to answer that question. Yet one can't help but think it is like the Bos­ton Celtics without Larry Bird-­hanging on for dear life. No. 1 singles player Dave DiLucia has had a Wayne Gretzy-type impact on this year's squad. Not only has DiLucia posted an impressive overall record of 31-8 (19-4 in dual matches), but he has led the Irish to five victories over teams that defeated the Irish last year. "I don't like to talk about freshmen, but David has earned it," said Bayliss of his No.1 player who has not lost a complete match since Feb. 4. "You can't ask any more from a freshman than what he has given us. He is very team­oriented and shows leadership potential. David has given us 
visibility, credibility and op­timism for the future." 
Notre Dame has received all this from a player who didn't consider Notre Dame until his father suggested that he at least listen to what Notre Dame had to say. Considered by the collegiate tennis community as the top recruit, DiLucia had one visit left according to NCAA rules, so DiLucia decided to visit and at least he would see the Golden Dome. On March 7, 1988, DiLucia stunned collegiate powers such as Stan­ford and UCLA, and committed to the up-and-coming Irish. 
"I came to Notre Dame be­cause it provided the best of both worlds--great academics and a solid tennis program," said DiLucia, currently ranked No. 51 in the country. "Notre Dame's commitment to tennis has been tremendous. We have a great coach and a great schedule.'' 
The upgraded Notre Dame schedule has given Dilucia the opportunity to play and knock off five nationally-ranked players, including the No. 5 player Buff Farrow of UCLA. DiLucia relies on his strong serve and volley tactics to down his foes. 
"I think I am serving well and that opens everything up," explained DiLucia. "If I do that I am able to mix it up, stay back or rush the net. Coach and my teammates help me a lot. Everybody has something to offer me. Each player has a strong part of their game, and I try to put that into my game." 
DiLucia hopes that his game is strong enough to earn him a spot in the NCAA Singles Championship in Athens, Ga. The Alumni resident could pos­sibly be one of four players to represent the Midwestern region. However, three of those slots are all but taken by the No. 1, 3 and 12 collegiate players in the country. Per­haps, DiLucia's best chance may lie in landing one of 32 at­large bids. 
If DiLucia wo•lld travel to At-
see DiLUCIA, page 17 



Illinois' Henson finally doing more with talent 
Lou. 

Everyone knows what those three letters have meant to Notre Dame football, but another Lou is making waves (but not permanent waves--yet) in the world of college basketball. 
Lou Henson, he of the infamous hair, has been accused of doing the least with the most talent as many times as anyone, and I do mean anyone . .. 
Digger Phelps this season did a lot with a little, but Henson, finally, has done a lot more with a lot more. 
I grew up in central Illinois, and I've got a twang to prove it. I've also got a permanent place in my heart for the Illinois basketball team, stemming from the days of Ken Norman, Efrem Winters, Doug Altenberger and the ulitmate underachiever, Bruce Douglas. 
This was a time when the Illini could have dominated the Big T,. but they had a tendency to choke in big games. problem, as my dad likes to say, was that "Lou started coaching." 
The preseason rankings would come out, and the Illini would be in the middle of the bottom ten on everyone's poll, because they'd get five stars for frontcourt, five for backcourt, five for bench depth and a one-and-a-half for coaching. 
Now, no one is saying that Lou Henson is a terrific coach, but this year, he has the team to overcome any inadequacies the coach might have. But it hasn't been easy. 
Illini player Earvin Small was asked to name something he has never been able to do. "Understand Coach Henson," replied Small. 

Theresa Kelly 
Sports Editor 
It's possible that the rest of the team has the same problem, and that's why the Illini are in the Final Four. But that's not really true. Henson has taken together some of the best all-around athletes in college basketball and let them play a controlled but still playground-style game. 
He's found a vocal leader in senior Kenny Battle, the experience of the rejuvenated Lowell Hamilton and a defensive leader in Stephen Bardo. There's also the astounding Nick Anderson, who hit the shot that rocked Hoosierville, a 35-foot buzzer-beater to beat Indiana in Bloomington, which the NCAA se­lection committee didn't forget when it came time to pick the top seeds. There are also about six clones of those four players. 
But those men are in the Final Four thanks to point guard Kendall Gill, the only player the Illini couldn't clone. With Gill in the lineup, the Illini record is 23-0. They were 8-4 when he was out with a broken foot. Gill is the outside shooter this team of 6-7 leapers needs. He's the thinker, the inspira­tional leader and the team's catalyst. 
Amid constant rumors of cheating in the recruit­ment process and times when there was more talk about the coach's hair than the team's record, Gill and the Illini haven't really listened. They just go out and play. 
Second only to the NCAA Final Four in collegiate basketball importance, Bookstore Basketball gets underway this weekend with the Hall of Fame game at 2 p.m. Sunday on the Bookstore Courts. 
Among the John Tower jokes and the Notre Dame basketball slams, the consensus "best name" award goes to One Guy, Another Guy, and Three Other Guys. Congratulations, guys. 



