
.-----~--­

Alaskan Revue
jete.: Keenan Revue 
Cloudy and cold Friday and 
Saturday with a 40 percent 
chance of snow. Highs in the 
lower 20s. 

!IRISH EXTRA: Duke preview 

Danny boy and girl 
AP Photo Vice President Dan Quayle gives young Cecile Durand a lift Wednesday at the U.S. Embassy in Caracas, Venezuela. Quayle, on his first inter­national trip as vice president, attended the inauguration of Venezuela's President-elect Carlos Andres Perez. 

Tank sale to Arabs proposed by Bush 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The Bush administration has opened arms-sale talks with Congress that potentially include ship­ping 35 Abrams tanks, consid­ered the world's best, to Saudi Arabia and 40 sophisticated FA-18 jet fighters to the United Arab Emirates, congressional and other sources said Thursday. 
Other Arab states would be inline for U.S. armaments un­der the proposal, made in the next to the last day of the Reagan administration and now the focus of discussions be­tween the Bush White House and Congress. 
Also proposed: 200 Abrams tanks, seven multiple-launched battlefield rocket systems and 1,500 Tow anti-tank missiles for Kuwait; 40 Maverick air-to­ground missiles with an infra­red guidance system and electronic warfare gear for Bahrain; 24 F-16 jet fighters, 100 Mavericks and 100 Sidewinder air-to-air missiles for Morocco, and seven of the battlefield rocket systems for Saudi Arabia. 
Greece would get 60 M48 

Government urged to take control of insolvent S&Ls 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The General Accounting Office Thursday urged the U.S. government, after agreement is reached later this year on an savings and loan bailout and reform package, to promptly take con­trol of the 350 remaining insol­vent, but still open, institutions. 
Meanwhile, President Bush held a private, hour-long meeting to discuss the S&L problem. The meeting was at­tended by Chief of Staff John Sununu, Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady, Budget Direc­tor Richard Darman and rep­resentatives of five bank and S&L groups, said Frederick Webber, president of the U.S. League of Savings Institutions, who attended the meeting. 
Bush, at the White House meeting, did not reveal any preference among the many options for addressing the S&L crisis, according to partici­pants. 
Bush "was there to learn from us and he's a good lis-
SEE S&L, page 4 
tanks and 100 Harpoon anti­ship missiles. 
If Bush follows through, the proposed Arab sales would seem sure to touch off a battle with congressional supporters of Israel, which is concerned that sophisticated weapons in Arab hands could be turned against Israel in a Mideast con­flict. 
The list is classified ; a copy was obtained by The Associ­ated Press. 
Charles Redman, the State Department spokesman, declined to identify the weap­ons under consideration for sale. He stressed that the docu­ment did not amount to a "sale plan," but rather to the admin­istration's "best estimate" of other countries' weapons needs. 
"Each item has to be reviewed by this administra­tion," Redman said. 
Congress has the power to block a purchase, but only if a majority of both the Senate and the House reject a formal White House notification of in­tended sale. 
see ARMS, page 4 

-
But Wright said Thursday a
Sorin Hall residents (left to right) Dan Barrett, Pat Souter and Chris Ba~cezak venture across Main Quad in the cold afternoon air Thursday. 
see RAISE, page 7 A light snow that dusted campus signified the end of the recent warm 
winter weather. 
/111 


~ ND alumnus killed in airplane crash 
Observer Staff Report 
A Notre Dame alumnus was one of the 19 people killed in the recent crash of an Air Force transport plane on Tues­day. 
Captain Joseph Nellis was a crew member of the KC-135 which crashed just south of Dyess Air Force Base in Texas. He died Tuesday of injuries received in the crash. 
Donnelly elected as new Observer Editor-in-Chief 
By MARK McLAUGHLIN 
Senior Staff Reporter 
By a majority vote of the general board, The Obser­ver named Chris Donnelly as editor-in-chieMor 1989-90. 

"The Observer has come a long way since my fresh­man year,'' said Donnelly, a junior philosophy major from South Bend, Indiana. "I have every expectation that The Observer will con­tinue to serve the campus community and keep im­proving." 
Donnelly started working for The Observer his fresh­man year as layout staff. He 
Three amigos TheObselver/Donald Pan 
Pay raise rejected by Senate in 95-5 vote 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The Senate on Thursday night voted to reject a proposed 51 percent congressional pay raise, but Speaker Jim Wright said the House would let it take effect next week and then vote to reduce it to "a decent raise" of 30 percent. 
The Senate voted 95-5 to reject the raise for Congress and other top federal officials, and to change the law to elim­

~ inate current procedures which allow a pay increase to take ef­fect without a vote. The vote against the pay in­crease was lopsided but largely symbolic, since both chambers must vote to block it. House procedures make it easier to protect a pay raise in that chamber, and Wright, D­Texas, continued as the main target of opponents as he maneuvered to protect most of the raise. 
Chris Donnelly has held the posts of assis­tant production manager and assistant Viewpoint editor. Donnelly has served as managing editor for the past year. 
Donnelly will assume his duties as editor-in-chief after spring break, succeed­ing senior Chris Murphy. 
Nellis graduated from Notre Dame and received his com­mission through the Air Force ROTC unit in 1983. He was as­signed as an Air Force navigator to K.l. Sawyer Air Force Base in Michigan. 
He is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Normal Nellis of Granger, IN. 
see NELLIS, page 7 



page 2 The Observer Friday, February 3, 1989 INSIDE COLUMN
OF INTEREST 
Notre Dame showsChicago Bulls tickets are available at the LaFortune Information Desk for the Feb. 7 game against the Charlotte Hornets at 7:30p.m. Tickets open to all interested parties. Discount with student ID.-The Observer 



its lack of diversity 

Applications for summer hall manager and/or assistant manager are now available in the Office of Stu­dent Residences, 311 Administration Building. They must be turned in by March 15.-The Observer 
The governor's office of Indiana offers a one-year fellowship in state government to ten graduating students from Indiana. A current Governor's Fellow (ND '88) will be at the Notre Dame Career and Placement conference room to discuss details of the program on Feb. 7 from 12-5 p.m.-The Observer 
All Saint Mary's students running for student body or class offices for the 1989-90 school year must attend one mandatory election meeting on either Mon. or Wed., 7 p.m., 304 Haggar College Center. All members on your ticket must attend.-The Observer 
The International Festival will be held tomorrow at 7:30p.m. at Washington Hall. Tickets will be honored until 7:25p.m., after which admittance will be on a first-come, first-serve basis.-The Observer 
Northern Ireland seminar has an opening for one female student participant. This one credit course involves four meetings and an eight day trip to Northern Ireland over spring break. If you are interested call 239-7862 or 239-6444.-The Observer 
Women's Care Center Phone-A-Thon to be held next week seeks volunteers. All interested should contact Kevin Belton at the Women's Care Center at 232-7781.-The Ob­server 
A national championship salute will be held Tuesday, Feb. 7 at 8 p.m. in the Joyce ACC. Father Edward Malloy, Coach Lou Holtz, UPI National Championship Award presenter, and the Notre Dame Football team will be in attendance.-The Observer 
New library hours: starting this weekend the Hesbur~h Memorial Library will open at 10 a.m. every Sun. th1s semester.-The Observer 
Wear green to the Duke game this Sun. Irish Insanity will sponsor free face painting before the game.­
The Observer 
NDE 4th Day: all past NDE participants are invited to the Log Chapel today at 4:30 to pray for the participants and team on NDE £8 (this weekend). Also, remember retreat on Christian Leadership this Sun. from 12-3:30 p.m. at Walsh Chapel.-The Observer 
The Notre Dame Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble says, "Hold on, hold out. Yes, there is hope for the world!" All are welcome to rejoice and uplift the name of our Lord today at 7:30p.m., Washington Hall-The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. Campus announces other events of general interest, free or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­mitted materials and determine if and where announce­ments will be published. -The Observer 
-Ih--e-Obse-----~~r--A-=Y=-'-' --·­
Design Editor .................. Laura stanton Etc. Designer ........................ Tim Irvine Design As.Utant .............. Beth Peterson Typist ....... ... . . . ... . . .. . . . ........... Sue Barton Typesetters .................... Molly Schwartz ND Day Editor ................ Betsy Mennen ................................................... Wowers SMC Day Editor ............. Alissa Murphy News Editor ....................... Tim O'Keefe Photographer ...................... Donald Pan Copy Editor ......................... Max Walsh Ada Designers ................... Jeff Stelmach Sports Copy Editor............... Pete Gegen ............................................ Molly Killen .......................................... Frank Pastor ......................................... Meg Callahan Viewpoint Copy Editor .... Janice O'Leary Irish Extra Editor............ Theresa Kelly Viewpoint Layout ............... Dave Bruner ...................................... Steve Megargee Etc. Editor ............................ John Blasi Irish Extra Layout.. .......... Alison Cocks Etc. Copy Editor ................. Mike Restle 
ne 0....11' (USPS 599 2--4000) is published Monday throuab Friday acept durin& cum lliiCI vacation periods. ne Olleenll' is published by tbe students of the University of Notre Dame lliiCI Saint Mary's Colleae. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year (S25 per semester) by writiq ntO....er, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
ne 0....... is a member of ne Aalodalell rr-. All reproduction ripts are reserved. 
Notre Dame has no class. 
All right, some people here do. But certainly the percentage is no higher than anywhere else in the world. 
I was rather disappointed with the response to the S-1 column printed here earlier this week. Letters to the editor are fine. Letters to the author are fine. Calls to the author's home con­sisting of obscene remarks that make the Jimmy Johnson calls sound friendly are not fine. 
The author of the S-1 column committed a Mortal Notre Dame Sin: not only having an opinion that is not of the majority, but going so far as to express it. However, unlike all those phone callers, the author had the guts to attach her name to what she wrote. I can respect the letter writers even if I disagree with them. 
But anonymous phone callers are con­temptible. 
Notre Dame is fairly good at harassment. Witness the plight of homosexuals, who endure constant abuse and instant referral to 'man­datory counseling' upon discovery. Witness the Druids, a group of students trying to stir up the campus for An Tostal, only to be pelted with garbage by residents of several dorms. Witness an act of love between two people turn into instant expulsion. 
Harassment goes hand-in-hand with image consciousness here. The administration has their holy grails: no alcohol, no sex, no drugs, token gestures to liberal theology and minorities, nothing even vaguely controversial. What other school claims the whole world as its campus when it comes to random discipli­nary action? 
But often the students here are just as bad. Engineers are geeks, premeds are throats, and everyone else is a blowoff, except for SMC chicks who are after a ring. And God forbid you're one of those people-'those' being minorities or chauvinists or feminists or homosexuals or atheists or non-white-middle­class-Catholic-Republican-male-jocks. 
Image consciousness is a horrible thing. It's probably why there's a huge problem on campus with date rape: guys living up to their image. It's probably why there's a huge prob­lem on campus with eating disorders: girls living up to their image. 
I can just hear the typical Domers reading this column now (those of you who haven't stopped reading and called me an arrogant bas­tard). "If you didn't like the place, why did you 

Mark Mclaughlin 
News Editor 

come here?" Well, if Notre Dame bothered to send freshmen a copy of Du Lac and the Honor Code before they asked for the $200 deposit, I probably would have known better. 
Sure, this place is Catholic. So's St. Joe High. But this place calls itself a university. If Notre Dame is ever going to be a true university, there needs to be an open discussion of ideas. Even non-Catholic ones. As long as we cling to the idea that discussion is fine as long as you come up with the "right," i.e. approved, answers, this place will be a football school. 
Humans seem to delight in telling each other what they aren't allowed to do. Universities are supposed to shelter students from that pres­sure, not cement it into place. But the school walls people in here, and the students wall themselves in. Anyone who doesn't look right gets slammed, just like the real world. So please, spare the "Notre Dame family" rheto­ric. It's more like a club. 
Why can't we just let people be? 
One last thing, for all you teeming millions who might plan on telling me off for calling you names: Please save my roommates the hassle of having to put up with me. Write P.O. Box Q. 


=Ihe-===-Obser\{er-_--= 
Applications are now being accepted for the following positions: 
Managing Editor Business Manager Systems Manager A three-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Chns Donnelly by 5 p.m. Wednesday, February 8. 
News Editor Viewpoint Editor Sports Editor Accent Editor Saint Mary's Editor Photo Editor 
Art Director Ad Design Manager Advertising Manager Production Manager Controller OTS Director 

A two-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Chris Donnelly by 5 p.m. Friday, February 10. 

~----------------~----------------------------~------------------~~-----------------------------------------­
Friday, February 3, 1989 The Observer page 3 

SMC opens series on diversity with lecture 
By KERRY SCANLON The Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco estimated in
News Staff 
1942, based on property claims, 
Saint Mary's "Gathering that Japanese-Americans lost 
Voices" series on cultural and more than $400 million in per­
ethnic diversity opened sonal belongings. 
Thursday night with a lecture Murakishi said there was a 
on post-World War II America good end to the internment ex­
by Japanese-American artist perience on August 10, 1988, 
Steve Murakishi. when President Reagan signed 
Murakishi's lecture, "Hero, a redress bill to compensate 
She, Ma: In Post America'' dis­those interned by Roosevelt's 
cussed ethnic and racial differ­executive order. 
ences within American society Japanese-Americans have 
from a Japanese-American received great benefits from 
perspective. the American system of higher 
He said two events that education, Murakishi said. 
shaped postwar America for Minority hiring practices 
Japanese-Americans were the have opened the doors and as 
atomic bomb dropped on Hiros­a group the Japanese 
hima and the internment Americans have the highest 
camps of World War II. average income of any group 
The attack on Pearl Harbor in America, he said. 
created mass hysteria and 
animosity toward Japanese­Murakishi said he feels there 
Americans living on the west is a bright future for a strong, 
coast, prompting President progressive relationship with 
Franklin Roosevelt to order na­all Americans. But he added 
tive Japanese and Americans that there are "disturbing 
of Japanese descent to control signs, and a atmosphere of 
stations, Murakishi said. growing hatred and hostility 
Although the United States seen in racially motivated at­
was also at war with Germany tacks and senseless murder." 
and Italy, no German­Murakishi is head of the 
Americans or Italian­printmaking department at 
Americans were subjected to Cranbrook Academy of Art in 
blanket exclusion orders like Bloomfield Hills, Mich. Three 
those imposed on Japanese, of his works, "Lucky Wong," 
Murakishi noted. "Recite:Hero, She, Ma" and 
Evacuated Japanese-"Hardball" will be displayed in 
Americans were forced to the Moreau Gallery. 
leave possessions or sell them. The "Gathering Voices" se­
While their families were in in­ries will continue at Saint 
ternment camps, some 25,000 Mary's during the spring se­
Japanese Americans served in mester with lectures, films, art 
America's armed forces, he exhibitions. musical perfor­
mances and poetry readings. 
said. 

1 

J 
-

The Observer I Donald Pan 

Brother Robert Lombardo, the 1989 Tom Dooley Dame graduate, received the award for his work with Award recipient, speaks in the Center for Social Con-the homeless in New York. Story page five. cerns Thursday afternoon. Lombardo, a 1979 Notre 



$15,000 worth of computers stolen from O'Shaughnessy 
By MICHAEL WELLS ble for someone to have 
Staff Reporter memorized the combination as the lab was being opened one morning. After the Macintosh lab is closed at 1:00 a.m., it is stan­dard procedure for the cus­todial staff to lock O'Shaughnessy and ask all remaining students to leave, said Assistant Director of Se­curity Charles Hurley. The exact time the building was secured Wednesday is un­known, but Hedl said a Security inspection of the building at 2:30a.m. revealed "nothing un­usual." It has also not been deter­mined how the five computers were removed. "It could have been several people working to­gether, or it could have been one individual who -made 

-~ ~·· 
several trips," Hurley said. 
To recover the stolen com­puters, Security will send the Macintoshes' serial numbers to the FBI's computer and notify local businesses that sell or repair Macintosh computers. 
Donald Spicer, assistant provost for University comput­ing, said the lab did not have a security alarm system Jike the LaFortune lab because "in the case of O'Shaughness~ , we in­herited a facility that Arts and Letters had been running." 

He added that "if someone knew how to get into the lab, cables wouldn't have helped 1 because they would have come 1 Iwith a cable cutter. In point of fact, there are a lot of com­puters in offices around campus that are no more se­cure than the O'Shag facility." 
Two for two AP Photo 
Two-year-old Stephen Bostwick, of Lilburn, Ga., watches the basket as his father Dan gives him a lift. The two practiced their shooting during halftime of a Georgia Tech Lady Jacket basketball game in Atlanta 
Wednesday. 

The Observer I Donald Pan 

Junior Jackie Joyce (right) chats with Dr. John Lungren '38, former president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, at the alumni-student reception Thursday evening in North Dining Hall. 

Quayle criticizes Carter 
Associated Press 
CARACAS, Venezuela-Vice President Dan Quayle on Thursday criticized former President Carter for meeting with Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega, saying such ac­tion "has a chance of com­plicating matters." 
Quayle also criticized Carter for comments reporters said the former president had made urging the Bush administration to use economic persuasion in El Salvador to encourage the U.S.-backed government there to fight human rights abuses. 
"If he's calling for economic 
S&L 
continued from page 1 
tener," Webber said. "It was 
very gratifying. The man is 
personally involved in this." 
Sununu rebuked the bank representatives over "ir­responsible" newspaper adver­tisements encouraging savings and loan customers to withdraw their deposits, indus­try officials said. 
Another source, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said, "Sununu characterized the ads twice or three times as irresponsible. He said, 'This type of garbage is irrespon­sible."' 
Sununu's anger over the ad­vertisements underscores the administration's concern that the debate in Washington over how to pay for the S&L crisis has unnerved some thrift 

Arms 
continued from page 1 
The informal list was sent to Congress on Jan. 19 by the out­going Reagan administration. The Bush administration opened talks with Congress last Friday, said a U.S. official who declined to be identified. 
Of all its allies, the United States is planning to share the Abrams tank, also known as the MlAl, only with Egypt, with which the United States recently completed co­production arrangements with 
L________________ -­
sanctions against El Salvador, yes, he's complicating mat­ters," Quayle said. "I don't think it's particularly helpful for a former president to make those kind of statements." 
Quayle, on his first diplomatic mission as vice president, was to stop Friday in El Salvador after leaving Caracas. He has said he wants to emphasize concern for human rights and support for democracy there. 
Asked if he has talked to President Bush since arriving Wednesday in Venezuela, Quayle said no, noting Bush has laryngitis and a cold. 
depositors even though no one in government has suggested that insured deposits are not fully protected. 
White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the pres­ident, who will meet with mem­bers of Congress on the subject Friday morning, will detail his S&L program in a speech to Congress on Feb. 9. 
Meeting participants said 
Bush indicated he has not yet 
received recommendations 
from the Treasury Depart­
ment. But Fitzwater said that 
proposals in the address to 
Congress "will be pretty spe­
cific. You'll know exactly what 
our proposal is." 

''The feeling in the meeting was this is a serious situation. ... By the time it gets to be a real run, it's too late," said Mark Riedy, president of the National Council of Savings In­stitutions. 
the aim of providing the tanks to the Egyptian army. 
Under the plan now under discussion, Egypt would be sold 150 Hawk missiles, 24 helicopters, artillery radar and tank equipment. Israel would be sold 200 shoulder-fired Stinger missiles, 24 helicopters and new equipment for its F -15 jet fighters. 
Jordan again would receive no American weapons. Since 1985, Congress has prohibited militry aid to the Arab kingdon until it agrees to peace terms with Israel. 
Friday, February 3, 1989
The Observer 


Bush meets Japanese leader 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-President Bush promised continued good U.S.-Japanese relations on Thursday, telling Prime Mini­ster Noboru Takeshita any dis­putes between the nations are "the differences of friends." 
Takeshita was equally up­beat. Standing alongside Bush in a colorful departure cere­mony on the South Lawn of the White House, Takeshita said their session "marked a new start for U.S.-Japan coopera­tion." 
Both leaders pledged closer economic and political cooperation-Bush vowing to work to drive down the U.S. budget deficit and Takeshita promising that Japan would ac­cept more imports. 
They also reaffirmed a plan to assist the Philippine govern­ment of Corazon Aquino and said they would continue to con­sult closely on policies toward the Soviet Union, the Middle East and Latin America. 
"Continuity will. . . be the mark of relations between the 

United States and Japan. On oc-.._iiiilliiliilllliliflliiilllillliiilliilliiiiiiliflliiilliilliiiiiiiilliiiiiiiiiilliiiiiiii_....__liflliiillliflliiill...._liflliiill_____. 
casion, we may have differ­ences. But these are the differ­ences of friends," Bush said. 
"Simply put,  we  respect  one  
another.  We  need  one  an­ 
other."  

"We're glad you came our way, Sir," Bush said. 
Takeshita, borrowing a phrase from Bush's Jan. 20 in­augural address, told his host: "in your words, the new breeze is blowing, Mr. President." 
No policy initiatives had been expected at Thursday's "work­ing lunch" at the White House­Bush's first meeting with a foreign leader since he took office-and apparently none materialized. 
Aides said the two leaders 

/ Grad Student Life Series 

TALK WITH 




FATHER MALLOY 
first workshop In a series to promote Interaction between Grad students and the administration In Improving Grad student life at Notre Dame 


COME SHAPE YOUR FUTURE 
on 

Monday-February 6th-7:00p.m. Theodores 
Reception to Follow 



NEW LI5RARY HOUR~ 
The H~?urgh Library will be QQEN at10:.00L\.M. 

~undays 
6tarling This Weekend 
MA", KEEP ON SMILING! HAPPY 21ST! 


Mom, Jer, Paul, Sean, Mandy &Jonas 
dealt mainly with generalities and did not discuss in any detail a new Japanese proposal for a high-level panel to resolve trade disputes or a joint U.S.­Japanese jet fighter project that has drawn criticism in Congress. 
However, these issues were taken up in a separate meeting between Secretary of State James Baker and Japanese 

Love, 
Foreign Minister Sousuke Uno, according to Gaston Sigur, as­sistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs. 
Sigur, briefing reporters, said Baker told Uno that "we do have very good mechanisms right now" for resolving trade disputes, but that the United States was willing to engage in talks with Japan to "see whe­ther there are other things that should be done." 
..-----------------------------------~~------~~---~--­
Friday, February 3, 1989 The Observer page 5 
Lombardo gives speech on homelessness and action 
"My experience with the homeless has shattered theBy CATHY FLYNN 
News Staff 
stereotypical images I had of 
Homelessness is a problem them as lazy, mentally ill, or that we should all confront, poorly-groomed people. I said Brother Robert Lom­began to see them not as home­bardo, during a lecture less, but as people," said Lom­Thursday. bardo. "I decided back then, 
Lombardo, who is this year's that if I was going to go the winner of the Tom Dooley whole nine yards--give up the Award for an outstanding con­wife, kids, and the 2.2 cars-­tribution to the social services, that I wanted to work with the works in the Padre Pio Shelter poor." for the homeless in the South However, "I was always kind Bronx. of scared of the poor," Lom­
He said he felt a call from bardo admitted." God to help people who didn't The experience people have have the opportunities he had in their own lives is enough to when he was working as an ac­allow them to deal with the countant in New York City poor, Lombardo said. after his graduation from "You see someone in a Notre Dame. cardboard box. You see some­






~•t\\•s,BD~~s
:~··"'p 
16th Annual Program 
London Rome 
May 24-June 23 June 18-July 17 Travel in Ireland, Travel in France, Scotland, and France Germany, and 
Switzerland

* Informational Meeting 
come visit with last years students and :* Feb. 13, 7pm 
teachers over refreshments and pizn. * * 351 Mandeleva, SMC 
* 
Courses offered in  For more Info, contact  
ART, BUSINESS, EDUCATION  Prof. Black 4460 or 272-3726  
HISTORY, ITALIAN, and  
JUSTICE  

one wrapped up in newspapers, science of the United States," "We live in the most affluent and you ask yourself what you said Lombardo. society, and the fact that we can do. Is this my fault? It is Although it may seem as if have people living on the important to ask yourself how the efforts of social ministers streets is wrong." you feel," said Lombardo. make only a tiny impression on 
Sometimes it is possible to the homeless problem at large, But, money is not going to respond to a poor person in the Lombardo said, their actions solve the problem, Lombardo street by simply giving them have a ripple effect on the pop­said. money, Lombardo said. ulation. However, it would be better to He encouraged all students to "When I lay down to bed offer to buy them a sandwich make others aware of the some nights and say 'God, I or a cup of coffee, as so many homeless and to partake in pro­would love to wake up in St. 
of them are addicted to sub­grams where they can get di­Croix or the Bahamas,' I think stances, he added. rectly involved. back to the Grotto. There is a 
"We are in a position where "There are people willing to special spirit here that we can we can make a difference. We make a difference," said Lom­carry away with us--the power must prick the social con-bardo. of prayer,'' said Lombardo. 

RadiO station claims Pan-Am bomb in CIA agent's case 
Associated Press condition of anonymity, told cipal architect of the bombing. The Associated Press the CIA's It said Jibril, based in Syria, chief in Beirut was among the was working for Libyan leader 
LONDON-The bomb that jet's passengers. They did not Moammar Gadhafi but was re­blew up Pan Am Flight 103 over give the agent's name. quired to clear the operation Scotland was planted by Pales­At that time, the FBI's exec-with Syrian intelligence offi­tinian terrorists in the luggage utive assistant director, Oliver cials. of a CIA agent, a radio station Revell, denied the agent was Last month, the Hamburg said today. · on the jet. newspaper Bild reported 
David Johnson, head of the Radio Forth did not name the Jibril's organization was in­news department at Radio agent it said was on the jet. It volved in the bombing. Forth in Edinburgh, reported said investigators believe a CBS quoted Jibril spokesman the CIA officer was returning three-pound charge of Semtex Omar Shehabi as saying, "I tell from Beirut with five col­explosive and a timing device you that we didn't do it and we leagues after a mission to were slipped into the agent's are not involved. We don't negotiate release of the nine luggage by Palestinian terror-practice terrorism and we con­American hostages in ists who infiltrated the secret demn such actions." Lebanon. Beirut mission. In Frankfurt, West Ger­
lt speculated the per-many, one of the stops on the 
Investigators in Lockerbie, petrators belonged to Ahmed flight, prosecutor's spokesman Scotland, where the investiga­Jibril's Popular Front for the Jochen Schroers said the report tion into the Dec. 21 disaster is Liberation of Palestine-of Syrian and Libyan involve­headquartered, refused com­General Command. Jibril has ment was "just speculation." ment on the report, which cited been accused in the past of in-The Radio Forth report information from unidentified volvement in the bombing and quoted sources as saying the Scottish police sources. has denied it. bomb was placed in luggage 
In December, U.S. officials On Wednesday night, CBS that also carried "quite sensi­in Washington, speaking on pews said Jibril was the prin-tive documents." 

The 



Distinguished Student Award 
1989 


.. Pres.ented ByThe University of Notre Dame
1983 Martha Jimenez 

Alumni Association To 

?
• 


1984 J. Elizabeth Ellery 1987 Jennifer L. Crawford
For outstanding service to Notre Dame, exceptional academic qualities and unselfish love to his community. 
The ND Alumni Association will be accepting nominations until February 28, 1989, for the Distinguished Student Award. Nominations may be made by anyone honoring an outstanding senior student who fits the above criteria. Applications may be obtained at the Alumni Office, 201 Main Building and at the Campus Ministry Office, Memorial Library. 
1988 Adam A. Milani



ApWOBKS 
--------------~-------------------------------------­
-
page6 

Railway accident knocks out power 
Associated Press 
HELENA, Mont.-Runaway railroad cars derailed and ex­ploded early today, knocking out power to 37,000 people in and around Helena and forcing the evacuation of thousands in wind chills of 70 degrees below zero. 
There were no reports of serious injuries in the 4:48a.m. explosion, which rocked houses up to three miles away, over­turned automobiles and shat­tered windows in a nearby col­lege and homes, officials said. 
The explosion occurred in an open area near three major power lines, and authorities believed at least one had been severed. Electricity was res­tored to all but half the city within 10 minutes. 
"It's a miracle no one was killed or injured," said Ed 
Caterpillars' diet affects their appearance, say researchers 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Diet deter­mines destiny for a small cater­pillar in Arizona whose appear­ance is radically changed by food selection-a clear insect demonstration of the old saying that "you are what you eat." 
Erick Greene, a researcher at the University of California at Davis re rts Friday in the 


[QJ0~@
DIGITAL AUDIO 
Schild, undersheriff for Lewis 
and Clark County. 
Firefighters apparently ex­tinguished a blaze near a rail­road tanker containing hydro­gen peroxide, which had threatened to set off a second explosion, police Capt. Bud Carbis said. 
Snow fell as firefighters poured water on the flames. Temperatures of 29 degrees below zero combined with winds to produce wind chills of 70 below, the National Weather Service said. 
About 2,000 people, including 700 to 800 of the 1,100 students at Carroll College, were evacauted from a square-mile area around the blast zone, of­ficials said. Evacuees went to churches, the Helena Civic Center, the National Guard ar­mory and schools, which were already closed by the cold snap. 

journal Science that the cater­pillar nemoria arizonaria lives on oak trees and develops the camouflage it needs for the season in which it is hatched. In effect, the clever critter has a spring costume and a fall cos­tume. 
"Both fall and spring cater­pillars have identical genetic material," said Greene. "The spring brood and the fall brood 
look exactly the same when 

they hatch. Their later change 
depends entirely on what the 
caterpillar eats. Diet cues turn 

on or off the right set of genes 
so that they turn into the right 

shape at the right time of 
year." 

Caterpillars, or larvae, hatched in the spring come out and immediately begin feeding ·on the oak catkin, or flower. 
Soon, these caterpillars develop a segemented look that resembles the flower. 
Mter a few weeks, the cater­pillar turns into a pupa and later into an adult moth. The adult, which is a brillant emerald green, quickly mates, lays eggs and dies. Greene said. 
The new eggs soon hatch and caterpillars identical to the 




R:CORDS 
spring brood appear. But once they start feeding, changes oc­cur quickly. 
Greene said that by the time the fall brood appears, the oak tree has lost its blossoms and is developing leaves. The new caterpillars feed on these leaves. 
Oak leaves have a high con­tent of a chemical compound called tannin. 



@MCA R5CORDS 
[QJ0o~@ 
DIGITAL AUDIO 


-~------~---­
Friday, February 3, 1989 The Observer 

Anticipation 
Spring semester keeps seniors busy in the job search. A group of seniors waits in the Career and Placement 
E 
u 
R 
0 


.:'.· J 
',"' . 
-:-..-:~-... ··---~ 
~..:....:.,l:J,... 

CHICAGO-LONDON 



s2gaoo Ro~nd 
Tr1p 
For Your Winter Or Spring Trip To Europe, Your Europe Travel Specialists 
SEVEN SEAS TRAVEL 
525 North Michigan Street South Bend, IN 46601 
Tel: 219-232-7995 
Travel permitted to London Sun.-Wed. from London Mon.-Thurs. All travel must be completed by March 15,1989 Reservations must be confirmed 14 days before departure 
~\..\:. with special guest ol'\:o~ BROKEN HOMES SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 4 8:00 PM MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
All seats reserved $15.50 Tickets available at the Civic Auditorium Box Office, Night Winds, Record Connection, and the usual outlets. 
c 

A L L I 
LEARN CPR, PLEASE. 
Toke o lilesovong Red Cross CPR course. 
• II • : I • • I 1·.:.: 
MEGGASYSTEMS RESUME SERVICE 

Personal on campus service for one low price 

call 
234-2347 (days) 287-5329 (evenings) 
AskforSue 
page7 

Probe of crash in Texas continues 
Associated Press 

ABILENE, Texas-The inves­tigation into the crash of a mil­itary tanker is being aided by witnesses who have responded to pleas for assistance in the local newspaper and on broad­cast stations, an Air Force of­ficial said Thursday. 
A KC-135A, the workhorse of the military's tanker fleet, crashed on takeoff just south of a Dyess Air Force Base runway Tuesday. All 19 aboard were killed, including 11 active mil­itary men, four retirees and four dependents. 
The plane, which was as­signed to K.I. Sawyer AFB, Mich., was bound for Hawaii and Guam and planned to refuel four F-16s that were flying to South Korea. 
An accident investigating team, led by Col. Dennis Carpenter of Seymour Johnson AFB, N.C., is comprised of per­sonnel from bases other than the one to which the plane was assigned. 
Working from grids and charts of the crash that were prepared by Dyess personnel, the team combed the wreckage Thursday and listened to state­ments from witnesses, said Sgt. Steve Bailey, a Dyess spokesman. 
The arctic cold front that has brought frigid temperatures to much of the country during the past week dipped into West Texas, but was not hampering the six-member investigation team, he said. 

Mother Teresa opens new chapter of order in Phoenix ~ 

leadership Ex:eUence Starts Here 
Associated Press 

PHOENIX-America's young people, laden with possessions, are glad to find the inner peace that comes with giving, says Mother Teresa, the world's best-known advocate of the poor. 
"They say, 'Wtl want the life of poverty, prayer and sacrifice that will lead me to the service of the poor,"' the 78-year-old Nobel Peace laureate said Wednesday, ex­plaining the growth of her Mis­
Rocco's Hair Styling 
531 N . .Michigan St. Phone 233-4957 
CAPT GAGLIO 219-239-6634 
sionaries of Charity order while other Roman Catholic or­ders face dwindling enroll­ment. 
Mother Teresa, who founded the order in Calcutta, India, in 1948, was in Phoenix to open the 401st chapter of the Mis­sionaries of Charity and the 16th in the United States. 
Her itinerary Thursday in­cluded a private Mass with Bis­hop Thomas O'Brien of the Phoenix Diocese, an evening prayer service at Simon and Jude Cathedral and meetings 
Nellis 
continued from page 1 
George Nellis recently retired as the Assistant Director for Administration of the Notre Dame Computing Center. 
A memorial service for all victims of the crash will be held today at Sawyer AFB. No in­formation on funeral arrange­ments was available. 
Raise 
continued from page 1 
"clear majority" of the House privately sllpported his plan for dodging a pre-deadline vote and then voting a partial rol­lback of the raise along with a ban on honoraria. 
However, the restrictive par­liamentary procedure planned by the speaker requires a tough two-thirds vote before the bill could be sent to the Senate. The 51 percent raise would remain in effect unless both chambers agreed to cut it back, and House opponents vowed to roll 
it back to zero whether Wright wins or loses. 
"It would be very difficult for the speaker to find two-thirds for this resolution," said Rep. Tom Tauke, R-Iowa. 



• 11Jtl·,1 a~A.,.. 1 ~IJ\f 1 CHINESE-AMERICAN 
~,;;;~·-·z~UP\ · ""~ '-'-V,..,yEATING & DRINKING p ;::.~;;~ .. · ALL-U-CAN EAT BUFFET ESTABLISHMENT
•",·~ SPECIAL FOR $7.95 

·:'(Tlncl'udes soup, appetizers, 8 different entrees & desserts -~ -Sun, Feb 5-Thurs, Feb 9 
5:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m. 130 Dixit Way South, St. lend 
----=c-=o-=m~e=--=c:-::e,..le"""'b,....r,=ate the Chinese New Year! (nexttoRandall'slnnlm-7371 
---~ ~ -~-­
--~­

pageS The Observer 

-------------------...---.-..., 
Friday, February 3, 1989 
Tower vote postponed 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-The chair­man of the Senate Armed Ser­vices Committee said today the panel has postponed an ex­pected vote on the nomination of Defense Secretary-designate John Tower, and another senator said additional meetings with the FBI were planned. 
Tower, a onetime chairman of the committee, had ap­peared headed for confirma­tion after telling his former col­leagues on Wednesday that he had no alcohol problem and would not be swayed by past business ties with defense con­tractors. 
But Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., while chairing a hearing on the Savannah River nuclear reac­tor, announced that the com­mittee will not vote today on Tower's nomination. He did not indicate when the panel might be polled. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! Michelle Sibilsky 

20 
Love. Dad. Mom. David & Sara 

Career Opportunities with 
ECOLAB 
Interested in career opportunities with a fast growing premium service company? Ecolab is the leading worldwide developer and marketer of premium institutional and residential services. Our worldwide institutional business includes cleaning products and services for the hospitality and food processing markets. Residential services are provided by our ChemLawn subsidiary. Ecolab is a $1.2 billion company positioned for rapid growth and is the market leader in each of its key businesses. 
On February 8 and 9, representatives from Ecolab will be on campus to discuss career opportunities for MBA Candidates in Treasury, Corporate Development, Financial Analysis, Audit and Management Reporting. We will be hosting a reception on Wednesday, February 8 from 7-9 pm in the Alumni Room. Interviews will take place the following day. 
Additional information is available in the placement office or contact our campus recruiting coordinator, JoAnn Butwinick (612 I 293-2812) 


Corps course  The Observer I Donald Pan  
Mike O'Neill (standing) relates his experiences as a  Marty Loesch (left of O'Neill) and Brigitte Goulet also  
Peace Corps volunteer to a group of seniors in the  spoke on their experiences.  
Sorin Hall lounge Thursday night. Corps volunteers  

Basketball coach with AIDS temporarily reinstated 
Associated Press 
ANDERSONVILLE, Ind.-A volunteer basketball coach dis­missed because he has AIDS was temporarily reinstated Thursday while school officials review his case. 
Allen Ward, 37, was dis­missed last week after only one game as coach of his daughter's intramural team at Laurel Elementary School. 
In firing Ward, administra­tors cited a new AIDS policy that requires school employees suspected of carrying the AIDS virus to be tested and their cases reviewed by a committee of health and school officials. 
Don Jobe, superintendent of Franklin County Community Schools, said during a news conference Thursday that Ward would be allowed to con­tinue coaching pending a deci­sion by the school board on 

whether  his  condition  
constitutes  a public  health  
threat.  

"In keeping with the board policy, (I am) of the opinion that the medical condition of the afflicted volunteer is not such as to consitutite an imme­diate health threat," Jobe said. 
He said he made the decision to reinstate Ward after speak­ing to Ward's physician, the Franklin County health officer and officials at the State Board of Health. 
He said the school board was awaiting written confirmation of Ward's condition from his physician in Indianapolis. A 



NOTRE DAME HOCKEY 
vs 

MICHIGAN-DEARBORN FRIDAY FEBUARY 3 AT THE J.A.C.C. 
7:30PM 


JEIEJI/JfllJE§~ 
JB3J;JlfNAJEYr§ 


~ 1VJ.&.1f!E({J)~§ ~!PJ'[[J(CJE. §JHI({J)({J)1f ([})~ 





Viewpoint
Friday, February 3, 1989 page 9 
Eating disorders pose danger at NO 
Editor's note: The following is the first contribute to their development so that norm for women is to exhibit some con­beautiful (i.e. thin) body. Individuals in a series of five articles dealing with you can be a supportive and positive cern about their weight and appear­who participate in activities that dic­eating disorders. influence to the women in your life. We ance. Therefore, this group was also tate certain body weights such as dan­
Last March, the University Counsel­encourage you to read the articles this considered to fall within the normal cers, models, actresses, and athletes ing Center conducted a survey of all week, to attend one of the feedback ses­range. This data suggests that the fre­also evidence a greater incidence of the undergraduate women on campus sions, and to talk to the women you quency of disturbed eating behavior eating disorders. regarding their eating habits and their know about their experiences and views among Notre Dame women is quite Although our society prescribes a attitudes and behaviors related to on this issue. high, occurring in two-thirds of the wo­thin ideal, some women are genetically eating disorders. Forty-four percent of Eating disorders fall into two pri­men who responded to the survey. predisposed to have a heavier body the women surveyed responded, a very mary categories, anorexia and The etiology of eating disorders is weight. Dieting, the culturally positive response rate. The Counseling bulimia. Anorexia is defined by the multifaceted and is most typically prescribed method of achieving this Center staff would like to express our Diagnostic and Statistical Manual­found in the interaction between thin ideal, often results in eating prob­appreciation to the women who partic­Revised (DSM-III-R) published by the sociocultural, developmental, biologi­lems. Dieting is not only an ineffective ipated in the survey. You enabled us to American Psychiatric Association as: cal and familial factors. Our society way to attain long-term weight loss, but better understand the issues of eating 1) body weight of 15 percent below that stigmatizes the obese and values it may also contribute to subsequent disorders for women on campus. In ad­expected; 2) an absence of menstrual attractiveness, particularly thinness. weight gain, binge eating and self­dition to expressing our thanks for your cycle due to low body weight; 3) con­Numerous studies suggest that these at­defeating psychological results. help, we also want to share a summary cern about weight and shape; and 4) titudes affect people of all ages and that To what extent does the Notre Dame of our results with you and the rest of an intense fear of gaining weight. Es­these social norms for thinness are ap­community, and more specifically your the Notre Dame community. We plan timates of the prevalence of anorexia plied more strongly to women than to own attitudes and behaviors, foster an to do this in two ways. indicate that between 1 in 100 to 1 in men. Women at greatest risk for eating environment in which people need to 
800 women suffer from this disorder. disorders are those who have accepted achieve some "ideal" in order to beChristine Conway The onset of anorexia is usually be­and internalized most deeply the accepted? . tween the ages of 13 and 20. Anorexia sociocultural mores about thinnness The staff at the University Counsel­
guest column 

kills approximately 5-21 percent of and attractiveness. ing Center hopes that you will take those who suffer from it. Certain environments also increase some time this week to learn more First, The Observer will be running Bulimia is defined by the DSM-III-R the risk of eating disorders. Notre about eating disorders. We encourage a series of articles this week in the Dame represents one such environ­you to read the articles appearing in
as: 1) recurrent episodes of binge
Viewpoint section on eating disorders. eating; 2) two binges per week; 3) the ment because it is predominantly The Observer this week and to attend 
The first three articles in this series experience of being out of control while middle and upper class, and it is a a feedback session in one of the wo­
will focus on various aspects of the sur­hinging; 4) concern about body shape stressful semi-closed situation where men's dorms. Again, thank you to all 
vey results. The final two articles were and weight; and 5) engagement in any the sociocultural pressure to be thin the Notre Dame women who made this 
written by students relating their own of the following methods of purging: may be intensified. The competitive survey possible. 
personal experiences with eating disor­vomiting, strict dieting, excessive ex­school environment may foster not only Christine Conway, Ph.D., is a psychol­
academic competition but also compe­ogist at the University Counseling Cen­ders. Second, members of the Univer­ercise, laxative use, or diuretic use. In 
sity Counseling Center staff will be other studies using similar criteria, the tition regarding the achievement of a ter. 
meeting with groups of women's dorms incidence of bulimia is reported to be 
to present more detailed information approximately 3 percent. The onset of 
about the results of the survey, answer bulimia tends to be later than for 
questions, and get ideas about ways we anorexia and is often proceeded by a 

P.O. Box Q
can address these issues on campus. period of restrictive dieting. 
You can find out more about the results The results from the Notre Dame sur­
of the survey by attending a feedback vey indicate that 0.6 percent of the re­
session in one of the dorms. The ses­spondents were diagnosable as It is important to realize that a sions will be held beginning this Sun­anorexic. This is similar to that found ND spirit carries similar opportunity exists with the bas­day, Feb. 5: in other studies. Seven percent of the to basketball ketball team. The talent of this year's Sunday--Farley, 7 p.m. respondents were considered to be freshman class and the absence of anyMonday--Breen-Philips, 7 p.m. bulimic, a little more than double the Dear Editor: graduating seniors are reasons to be Tuesday--Knott, 6:30p.m. frequency reported in comparable As I celebrated our football team's excited about next year's season, yet it Wednesday--Lyons, 7 p.m. studies. An additional four percent of national championship outside of the is just as important to support the team Thursday--Badin, 6:30p.m. the respondents exhibited all but one of stadium in Tempe, it was impossible to now. Student support has certainly im­
While the survey focused upon the the symptoms of anorexia, and 9 per­resist a special feeling of accomplish­proved from last year, and Sunday's prevalence of eating disorders among cent reported all but one of the ment that dated back to my freshmen game against Duke offers an opportu­women, eating disorders are not exclu­symptoms of bulimia. Thus, a total of year, Lou Holtz's first season as head nity to push Notre Dame basketball to sively a female issue. Men also develop 20 percent of the respondents to the coach. It was strange how a season a greater level of success. As the past eating disorders, although not in the Notre Dame survey have either a diag­filled with many frustrating and dis­three football seasons have demon­alarming proportions as do women. In nosable eating disorder or a serious apointing losses could seem so impor­strated, success is seldom achieved addition, as the prevalence of eating eating problem. Forty-six percent of tant now, but, like many of the players, overnight. As Notre Dame students and disorders increases in women, men are the respondents have some symptoms I felt a sense of satisfaction knowing a fans, we owe this team the same patient more likely to be affected. Your sister, of an eating problem. Fifteen percent goal had been reached. I am sure that and loyal support that we have given girlfriend, future wife or daughter may indicated that they are "concerned my feelings are not unique. As students our football team. be affected by an eating disorder. It's about their weight," and 19 percent and fans, we are proud to have sup­Erich Straub important that you understand what showed no symptoms of an eating dis­ported our team as fervently in 1986 as Irish Insanity 
eating disorders are and what factors order. The literature suggests that the we did this past year. 
Doonesbury 
A5 I UN[){;R5TANV n; YOUR POSITION IS THAT 
IF IT tv£/?& TRIJLY AD{)IC­
TIVe, 7Ha<& UKJUWN'TBe 
1
..--...,~=-.. ~MANY FOR­
MeR. ::7/Y/ti/VAI:J. 
r 

Editorial Board 
Ed1tor·m-Chief . Chris Murphy
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 {219)239-5303 
Manag1ng Ed1tor Chns Donnelly 
News Editor Regis Coccta 

The Observer IS the tndependent newspaper published by the students of the Untverstty of News Editor Mark Mclaughlin Notre Dame du Lac and Satnt Mary"s College. It does not necessanty reflect the polictes of Viewpoint Edito• ..... Dave Bruner the admtmstrallon of etther tnslltution. The news 1S reported as accurately and ObJeCtively as Sports Editor . Marty Strasen posstble Unstgned edttonals represent the optmon of the maJority of the Editonal Board Accent Ed1tor Beth Healy Commentanes. leners and the lnstde Column present the vtews of thetr authors Column Samt Mary's Ed1tor Sandy Cerimele space 1s avatlable to all members of the commumty and the free expresston of varytng Photo Ed1tor .. Mtchael Moran optntons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged. 
Garry Trudeau 

ANP YtT IF IT'S NOTAVPIC­T!Vg, IUHY IXJ 90% OF AU.­
'3M0Kel?.5 7Vt?AY SAY 7H&Y IUOUW l/K/3 7D QUIT? /JAO? 
I 

Feb. 1, 1989 
Quote of the Day 
"Oh, wouldn't the world seem dull and flat with nothing whatever to grumble at." 
W.S. Gilbert 

Of~erations Board 
Business Manager John Oxnder Advert1smg Design Manager Molly Killen Advertismg Manager Ltnda Goldschmidt ProduCtiOn Manager Bernadene Shilts Systems Manager Mark Rtdgeway Controller Todd Hardtman Graph1c Arts Manager Marga Bruns 
Founded November 3,1966 



An alternative: ISO dance fest 

JANICE O'LEARY 
accent writer 
T
hey will be dancing in the aisles tomor­row night at the In­ternational Fes­tival. The annual festival, sponsored mainly by the International Student Or­ganization, will be held in Washington Hall at 7:30p.m.. It is directed largely by Ramzi Bualuan, who has chaired the event for four years, and Samira Gonzaine, stage manager. 
The performers include stu­dents, both undergraduate and graduate, professors, and even one rector. They will perform some dances of their respective native countries, and musical selections. Ap­proximately 25 countries will be represented, including Ireland, Indonesia, China, Korea and Spain. Some well­known dances that will be performed are the "Jarabe Tapatio" (the Mexican Hat Dance), the Latin-American Meringue, and Cha-Cha. 
Some of the dances are fun, 
The Ob..,., I Jennlfw O'Donald 
such as one from Ireland; others combine grace and skill--particularly one very courageous dance from the Philippines. Others still, like the Korean Floral Fan Dance or "Boo Chae Choom" are just beautiful. 

The 85 performers have put in 30 hours of formal rehear­sal time and endless hours prior to that. Each act is be­tween three and four minutes long, and the number of people in each act ranges from one to as many as 14. 
This year something new will be added--a Folkloric Fashion Show where cos­tumes from different countries are displayed. There will also be a medley of ballroom dances. 

The performance is free and tickets are available in the ISO office on the second floor of LaFortune. If not sold out, the doors will be open to all at 7:25p.m. for those who decide at the last minute to enjoy the show. The festival promises to be a very colorful one, in both costumes and music. 

Scott Sullivan (foreground) and Pat McClanahan perform as members of "The Village People.'' 


at 

Time 4 p.m. EST 
TV & 

NBC National Television Radio ND Basketball Radio Network 
Tickets  Game is sold out Joyce ACC (capacitv 11.418)  
AP Rankings  Duke 12th Notre Dame unranked  

This is the 12th meetingSeries between the two schools 

NO's 'Diaper Dandy' living 
Freshman Ellis handles the pressure 
By THERESA KELLY Assistant Sports Editor 
He was Notre Dame's star on the court even before he was a student at the University. 
He's been called the man who will put Notre Dame back into college basketball's elite. He was a first-team Parade High School All­American in high school. 

He was com-LaPhonso Ellis pared to Patrick Ewing by his future coach, Dig­ger Phelps, before he even began his senior season in high school. Somehow, this 6-9 freshman was one of Notre Dame's best players ever--even before he set foot on the court. LaPhonso Ellis, like all the 'Diaper Dandies,' has had to deal with high ex­pectations. ''All the hype has definitely affected me," he says. "A lot has been predicted about me... things I could try to live up to, but trying to do that would hurt more than it helps. I can't be every­thing. "It's probably one of the main reasons that I get upset with myself and say I should be doing better. I don't want anyone to expect too much of me, but just enough so it pushes me to do my best. I want to meet the expecta­tions halfway." He's taken the floor against some of the best freshmen in the country and has shown them all that he's not a player to be taken lightly. He outscored and outrebounded Georgetown's sensa­tion, Alonzo Mourning, when the two player's high school teams played at last year's 7-Up Shootout in St. Louis. He helped his high school, East St. Louis (II.) Lincoln, win back-to-back Il­linois state championships. In 1987, as a junior, he hit 27 points and grabbed 10 rebounds against Marcus Liberty (now with Illinois) and Chicago King 
High School to claim the crown, and in 1988 he helped beat Chicago St. Francis deSalles, featuring current Indiana 
player Eric Anderson, with 26 points, 15 boards and nine blocks. 
Clearly, Ellis was bound to be in the spotlight. His decision to play for Notre Dame came in the fall of 1987, as he faced a trio of schools offering basket­ball scholarships. On the desk in front of him were letters of intent for Notre Dame, Illinois and UCLA. He was rumored to be favoring the lllini, but the influence of former Irish assistant coach John Shumate had an impact. 

"A big factor in my choice was that I thought I could come to Notre Dame and contribute right away,'' Ellis says, "and I guess I have." 
He guessed right. As of Wednesday, he led the team in scoring with a 15 point average, having started 13 of Notre Dame's 14 games. He carries a 62-percent field goal average, totals 
10.2 rebounds per contest, and has blocked 22 shots. 
Ellis started the year right, scoring 27 points and pulling down 10 boards against St. Bonaventure in his debut Nov. 28. 
"He's physically gifted right now,'' said St. Bonaventure head coach Ron DeCarli, "but after four years in this program he'll be a pro, and one of us will probably be happy to be his agent." 
Until then, Ellis will team up with one of Notre Dame's best recruiting classes to achieve the one goal he em­phasizes: taking the team to the Final Four. 
"LaPhonso Ellis is obviously the guy who has lifted up everyone on the team. He's gotten everyone to play up to their potential, as well as playing beyond their potential.'' 
--Irish head coach Digger Phelps. 
"We've got our Mr. Dangerous, a three-point shooter, in Keith Adkins,'' he says. "We've got a great point guard, Elmer Bennett, and a great big guy, Keith Tower. Daimon Sweet is a great third guard, and we're all fresh­men. If we can put that together, there will be a lot to look forward to as far as Notre Dame basketball is con­cerned." 
Some of Ellis' burden of premature stardom was alleviated by the talent that Phelps brought to Notre Dame this 
Feb. 7, 1988Last Meeting Duke 70, Notre Dame 61 
-I I 

up to expectations 
, 
~ 
1 
1 
l, 
,1 
1 
1 1 1 
~ 
1 
., 


The Observer I Scon McCann 
year. 

In a sight all too familiar for Irish opponents this year, LaPhonso Ellis (20) 
"I don't feel a big burden," Ellis says. 
leaps over Dayton's Troy McCracken (44) and Norm Grevey In the paint. As a
"I know that, with the players we have, 
freshman, Ellis leads Notre Dame In both scoring and rebounding.
I don't have to do everything. A lot of people don't understand how many Temple game, in which the Owls shut good players we have on this team, and him down and held him to five points, we've all been contributing." with an 18-point, seven-rebound perfor­
"LaPhonso Ellis is obviouusly the one mance Tuesday against Dayton. Com-guy who has lifted up everyone on the ing back, according to Ellis, is all part team,'' Phelps says. "He's gotten of the learning process he's going everyone to play up to their potential, through. as well as playing beyond their poten­"The most important thing I'm learn­tial." ing is how to be a man on the court,'' 
Ellis followed up last Sunday's he says. "You still have to do what you can when you're not at your best. This is a great team because we pick up for each other. 
"I think I've contributed to the ex­pectations of what the team needs from me," Ellis says. "I wasn't sure I'd be able to come in and do as much as I've done in a few games. It's been pretty surprising. Now I just have to follow it up day after day." 
page2 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Assistant Sports Editor 
After an easy win over a team mis­sing two of its top players, a coach often complains and wishes his team could have faced more of a challenge. 
But Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski had three reasons to like what he saw from his team in Sunday's 92-62 victory over Clemson. The Tigers were competing without six players serving a one-game suspension for violation of academic study hall rules. 
Duke's easy victory signalled the end of its three-game losing streak, the return of injured All-American Danny Ferry and signs of the dominating defense that Coach K has sought from his Blue Devils all season. 
"Considering all the unusual circum­stances, we got much more out of the game than I thought we would," said Krzyzewski, whose team plays Notre Dame at 4 p.m. Sunday at the Joyce ACC. "It helped more than I thought it 

r would after hearing about the suspen­sions. 
f
, 
r' About Duke 
I 
Ferry scored 12 points in Sunday's game and appeared healthier than he has been in some time. 
After suffering a back mJury two weeks ago, the 6-10 senior forward played with pain in losses to North Carolina and Wake Forest, then sat out a loss to North Carolina State. 

The three-game skid, coming after I Duke had won its first 14 games and r held on to the number-one position for r the first two months of the season,
, 
caused the Blue Devils to fall into the 

r 
bottom half of the Top 20. 

r "No one was a clear number-one 
I 
r choice, and we knew that," said Krzyzewski. ''A couple of teams we played that we thought would be early tests for us, especially Kentucky, for 
whatever reasons weren't those early~ tests. This has been an unusual yearr for us."
r 
Heading into a Thursday night game r at Georgia Tech, Ferry was averaging ~ 21.9 points and 7.1 rebounds per game r to lead the Blue Devils in both r categories. He ranked second on the 
I
, 
team with 86 assists. 
r r Other Duke players in double figures 
r include forward Robert Brickey (12.4), 
r guard Phil Henderson (11.5) and center 
r Alaa Abdelnaby (10.8). Senior point guard Quin Snyder led the team with 114 assists. Sophomore Greg Koubek and freshman Christian Laettner also see plenty of playing time for the Blue Devils. 
Krzyzewski is particularly pleased with the recent play of Snyder, who has emerged as both a scoring threat and an inspirational leader. 
"We've tried to change his role so that he and Phil alternate the ball­handling, and he can get in scoring sit­uations," said Krzyzewski. "He plays 
BLUE DEVILS TO WATCH 


I 
When this 6-10 junior puts up the ball inside, two points are all but automatic. He has a 67 percent shooting percentage that include a long early-season string of consecutive shots made. 
i\ \ 

Irish Extra: The Game 

This blocked shot by Robert Brickey (21) exemplifies the potency of a Duke defense running at full strength. Blue Devils coach Mike Krzyzewskl believes last Sunday's win over Clemson might have begun a return of the dominating defense that led Duke to the Final Four last season. 
really hard, really emotionally. He puts everything he can into the ballgame, whether on the court or on the bench." 
Players on the Duke bench Sunday highlighted Blue Devil rallies by slap­ping their hands on the floor, a trademark of last year's Final Four squad. Krzyzewski hopes the return of that practice also symbolizes the return of the swarming Duke defense that got the Devils into the Final Four. 
"We played defense as a team better than we have all season long in the second half," said Krzyzewski, refer­ring to last Sunday's game. "We were swarming the ball, and guys were com­ing over to help out. We hadn't seen that type of defense this season. The kids had thought they were playing good defense, and they were playing good defense. They just weren't playing Duke defense." 
Much of Duke's early defensive prob­lems early resulted from Billy King's graduation. King epitomized the Devils' defensive prowess last season, causing Notre Dame superstar David Rivers and Temple's Mark Macon to play their worst games of the yeB:I'. 
Now it appears that Krzyzewskt has 
J 




Robert Brickey (F) Phil Henderson CGl Quln Snyder (G) 
his defense back where he wants it, and also has a healthy Ferry back in the lineup. The Irish know that presents an imposing combination. 
"They're fundamentally sound, well­coached, have an excellent defense and a great leader in Danny Ferry," said Irish co-captain Jamere Jackson. "They're always a tough team to play against because of those things." 
About Notre Dame 
Duke has split a pair of games with Notre Dame over the last two years, with the Irish winning at the Joyce ACC in 1986 and Duke taking one at home last year. Krzyzewski knows he is facing an entirely different Irish squad this time. 
"I watched them when they played Indiana," said the ninth-year Duke co­ach. "They're improved with their depth, they play very hard and they have good three-point shooting." 
Heading into Thursday night's Mar­quette game, freshman LaPhonso Ellis continued to lead the Irish in both scoring (15.0 points per game) and 

Mike Krzyzewskl (Coach) 

Friday, February 3, 1989 
rebounding (10.2 boards per game). The 6-9 freshman forward also has blocked 22 shots. 
"They (Notre Dame) always play good defense, and he (Ellis) gives them shot-blocking ability," said Krzyzewski. "He can score, he's a good offensive rebounder and gives them a big target inside. He'll be one of the really good players in the country for four years." 
Other Irish players scoring in double 
figures are guard Joe Fredrick (14.6), 
Jamere Jackson (12.6) and Keith Rob­
inson (12.4). Starting point guard Tim 
Singleton was averaging 6.1 points with 
81 total assists in the team's first 14 
games. 
Robinson also averages 8.9 rebounds 
per game, second among Notre Dame 
players. 
"He (Robinson) is probably the most 
underestimated player on the team, yet 
he's probably the glue to our success 
that keeps everybody sticking to­
gether," said Phelps. "You talk about 
Joe Fredrick, Jamere Jackson, Tim 
Singleton having great games, LaP­
honso Ellis having great games, Keith 
Robinson's the guy most consistent 
with double-figure points and double­
figure rebounds." 
Notre Dame has gotten much more 
balanced scoring in its last few games. 
Eleven different players scored in a 67­
45 win over SMU, four players had more 
than 10 points in last week's 85-63 vic­
tory against Rutgers and five players 
were in double figures in Tuesday's 85­
75 win over Dayton. 
Freshmen Elmer Bennett and Daimon Sweet have provided much of Notre Dame's strength off the bench. Bennett scored 12 points in the Dayton game and also scored in double figures against San Francisco and UCLA. Sweet has averaged 11 points a game over his last three outings, scoring 15 against Rutgers and 14 versus Dayton. 
Before Thursday's game, the Irish had won five of their last six games, including a win over Temple in a na­tionally televised game last Sunday. 
That come-from-behind victory over the Owls at the Joyce ACC has Phelps excited about this team. 
"They showed poise and maturity," said Phelps. "After being down four with some three minutes to play, we go on an 11-4 spurt to win the game against a pretty good Temple team. 
"When we play at home, the enthus­iasm from the students and the band is really just in amazement over how these kids just believe they're going to go out and play against people." 
The Irish realize they will face one of their toughest tests of the year Sun­day when they meet the resurgent Blue Devils. They still are confident of com­ing out on top. 
"It's a stiff challenge," said Jackson. "They (Duke) are one of the top teams. But we feel we can play with anybody in the country, and if we do the things we're supposed to do, we have a shot." 



A 6-5 junior, Brickey ranks This 6-4 junior is one of Duke's This point guard leads the Devils You can fight over different second on the team in scoring best shooters, knocking in 58 per­in both assists and emotion. The ways to pronounce his name (12.4), rebounding (5.4) and cent from the field, 42 percent from 6-3 senior has 114 total assists and (it's sha-SHEF-ski), but you blocked shots (19). His 55 percent three-point range and 75 percent has become more of a scoring can't argue with his success. 
free-throw average makes him from the line. Shares ballhandling threat in recent games. The ninth-year Duke coach has Duke's biggest liability on the line. responsibilities with Snyder. taken his team to the Final Four two of the last three years. 
~-------------------------------, 
Irish Extra
Friday, February 3, 1989 
No slowing down: Jackson runs Irish 



By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame had just been eliminated in the first round of last spring's NCAA basketball tournament, and Irish player Jamere Jackson was heading to the coach's office. 
Looking back, the junior co­captain couldn't have been more pleased about the results of his meeting with Digger Phelps. 
"We talked about the type of people he was bringing to the team and the people coming back, and he asked me what I thought," said Jackson. "I told him I thought that we should play a more uptempo game and use quickness and pressure. 
"He had his mind made up. He just wanted to see what I was thinking," continued the 6­2 small forward. "He promised we would run more often, he kept his promise, and we're having a great deal of suc­cess." 
Jackson had patiently played to a slower tempo during his freshman and sophomore years at Notre Dame, but he always has preferred the run­ning style that worked for his high school team. 
At Peoria, Ill., Jackson's Manual High School team posted respective records of 31­2 and 20-4 during his sophomore and junior seasons. 
Despite his team's success, college recruiters were not ex­actly going to great pains to lure Jackson to their school. 
"I really wasn't highly recruited," said Jackson, who will not turn 20 until Feb. 20. "I didn't go to any summer camps and didn't get any expo­sure." 
Fortunately for Jackson and Notre Dame, the 1985-86 Manual High team fared very well in the Illinois state tourn­ament, placing third and losing in the semifinals to a Chicago King squad led by 1llinois' Marcus Liberty. 
Manual's success in the tournament helped Jackson at­tract the attention of some col­leges, but not exactly the national powers. Jackson fi­nally signed with Notre Dame in late April, choosing the Irish over Northwestern, Wisconsin and Marquette. 
"I considered the opportu­nity to come to Notre Dame a golden one," said Jackson. ''The other places recruiting me were really good academic schools without good basket­ball teams, so I was getting the 

~~~e~~:~~d ~~~~:r!~~~,with -.,.. '­
It did not take long for this The a-rver1 E.G. Bailey · little-known recruit to receive Notre Dame co-captain Jamere Jackson guards a 6-2 small forward, Jackson frequently receives quality playing time for the Kentucky's 6-7 freshman standout Chris Mills (42) the asslgnent of defending players several Inches Irish. In his first collegiate In a Big Four Classic win over the Wildcats. As taller than himself. 
game, Jackson scored 11 points while shooting 53 percent from and played 24 minutes in a loss the field as the Irish recorded to Western Kentucky. He was a 20-8 record that year. His big-back in double figures three gest numbers came in the games later with 10 points in season finale, scoring 20 points an overtime win over Eastern on 8-of-10 shooting in an 83-75 Michigan. NCAA tournament loss to 
"Because I wasn't expected Southern Methodist. to do much or be a factor my That game proved to be a freshman year, I played sign of things to come for both loose," said Jackson. "!figured Jackson and the entire Notre anything I did was a bonus." Dame team. 
Jackson never scored in "It was uptempo, a game double figures the rest of his where the defense created the freshman year, though he did offense," said Jackson. "That's play in 28 of Notre Dame's 32 the type of system in which I games, mostly as a second like to be involved and what I guard. played in high school." 
His sophomore season · That uptempo style of game brought an increase in respon-has arrived more regularly at sibilities and in playing time. Notre Dame this season. The Jackson saw time at both the only bigger arrivals on the small forward and second Joyce ACC courts have been the guard positions and started 22 five freshmen suiting up and of Notre Dame's 29 games. receiving quality playing time 
Jackson averaged 5.3 points for the Irish. 
As co-captain of the team day)," said LaPhonso Ellis. with Joe Fredrick, Jackson has "Jamere just told me in prac­
had to help lead this young, senior less squad. He claims the number of freshmen has not put any additional pressure on him as a co-captain. 

"They (the freshmen) have brought a lot of enthusiasm and have added a lot of talent," said Jackson. "They're a fun group to be around and they work really hard. 
"Usually when you have a bunch of guys who were high school All-Americans, they try to coast from what they did in high school. These guys have come out, worked hard and made us a better team." 

The freshman players are quick to point out the ways Jackson has helped them adjust to Notre Dame basetball. 
"I had kind of a tough game against Temple (last Sun­tice after the game to settle down and come back against Dayton. He's very reassuring in situations like that for the younger players." 
"Coming in, the freshmen didn't know what to expect from the coaches," said Daimon Sweet. "Jamere briefed us on what Digger and the coaches would do. !tell you, it sure came in handy." 
Jackson's talents also have had a major role in Notre Dame's success. Third on the team with a 12.6 scoring average, Jackson also has pulled down over four rebounds per game. He has scored in double figures in 12 of the team's first 14 games. 
The team's best free-throw 
see JACKSON, page 4 
•

Ice 1n his veins: Fredrick propels NO to OT win 
By VIC LOMBARDI Sports Writer 
Many basketball players thrive for the moment when they can come off the bench during crunch time and pro­vide a spark for their team. 
Joe Fredrick loves that kind of pressure. 
Time Capsule 
As a freshman on the 1986-87 squad, Fredrick came off the bench to propel the Irish to a 70-66 overtime victory over the 15th-ranked Duke Blue Devils. 
The scrappy guard made his entrance two seconds into the overtime when forward Mark Stevenson picked up his fifth foul. 
"I knew the feeling of this game was going to be No. 3 (Fredrick)," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps, whose team had won its seventh straight overtime game at home. "I had a feeling all week that Joe Fredrick was going to be the guy to come off the bench and stick it. I kept talking to him all game, telling him to be ready." 
With ice in his veins, Fredrick drilled an 18-foot shot from the left corner to tie the game at 62 apiece. Then, with one minute left he gave Notre Dame the lead for good as he buried a pair of free throws--his first free throw attempts of the season. 
Fellow freshman Scott Pad­dock also contributed by hitting two key free throws with three seconds remaining that secure the victory. 
The emergence of the rookies took most of the glory away from senior guard Scott Hicks, who poured in a game-high 19 points. Hicks took over the of­fensive responsibilities as the Duke defenders smothered All­America guard David Rivers. 
The Irish started the game in 
F.tJ. t5, 1987 
Notre Dame 70. Duke 66(0T) Duke (66) 
M FG-A 3P-A FT-A R F P Ferry 39 3-12 1·1 2-2 3 5 9 King 39 4-11 o-o 0·3 5 4 a 
Smith 36 8·13 o-o 3-5 s 3 19 Amaker 14 6-16 0·1 2-2 6 2 14 Snyder 28 2-4 o-o o-o l 5 4 BriCkey s o.o o-o 1·2 1 1 1 Abdelbady 2 1-l o-o o-o 0 1 2 Strickland 16 l-3 o-o H 5 3 3 Nessley 12 3-3 0-0 o-o 5 1 6 28-63 1-2 9-1531 25 66 
Total FG percent-.444. 3·Pt. percent.­.511. FT percent-.600. Team reboonds·3. TuiTIQvers· 16. Assists-11 (FetFy 5). Technicals-none. 
Notre Dame (70) 
M FG-4 3P.A FT·A R f P Royal 44 4-to o-o 8-8 1 5 16 Stevenson 38 5·10 o-o 2·2 2 S 12 Voce 38 1-7 o-o 1-210 2 3 Rivers 44 3-10 o-o 6-6 4 2 12 Hicks 44 .7-9 o-o s-a 6 3 19 Fredrick 7 1·1 o-o 2·2 o 1 4 Jael<son 1 o-o o-o o-o 0 0 0 Paddock 8 1-1 o-o 2-2 2 1 4 
22-48 o-o 26-303119 70 
Tolal FG percent.· .458. 3-Pt. percent.· .000-FT percent.· .860. Team reboonds-3. Turnovers-16. Assists-14 (Rivers 5). T ni ­

pure upset fashion as they stormed to a 9-0 advantage. But as fast as you can say "Krzyzewski", Duke ran off 12 straight points to climb right back. 
From there, the teams battled through 7 lead changes and 11 ties. The Irish attacked with senior Donald Royal's (16 points and 7 rebounds) strong baseline game and Rivers' (12 points and 5 assists) constant penetration. Duke, meanwhile, Duke countered with guard Tommy Amaker (14 points) and center John Smith (19 points). 
With the game tied at 60, Phelps gave Fredrick the chance to prove himself. 
"I wanted to win this one," said the freshman from Cincin­nati. "I'm glad coach had the confidence in me to put me in." 
Trailing 68-66 with just four seconds remaining, Duke had a chance to tie as Smith went 
-
to the line for a one-and-one. Smith missed his first attempt and the ball was pulled down by Paddock, who was immedi­ately fouled. The freshman for­vvard then responded by con­verting the two foul shots to seal it. 
The Duke upset wasn't the only triumph over a Tobacco 
Road team, though. Two weeks earlier, the Irish shocked then­No. 1 North Carolina 60-58. 

nape 4 Irish Extra Frjday February 3 1989 
Ferry strikes fear into the hearts of his opposition 
Duke forward posting big numbers despite injury 
By BETH TORLONE players. Last season, he went "He's going to see trick 
Duke Chronicle home with a suitcase full of defenses," said Bob Ferry, 
trophies, including Atlantic general manager of the NBA's 
DURHAM, N.C.--His num­Coast Conference Player of the Washington Bullets. "He's 
bers will astonish you. Year, ACC Athlete of the Year, going to see so many different 
Senior forward Danny Ferry All-America, John Wooden things it's hard to tell...I'm leads both his team and the At­Award Finalist, U.S. Olympic certain he'll get that type of lantic Coast Conference in Team Finalist, and Most Valu­respect (as a target player for scoring with 21.9 points per able Player of the 1988 ACC the opponents). I know this: game and is second on the team tournament and the 1988 NCAA they can stop him, but (his in assists with 89. Ferry also East Regional. teammates) will get the ball leads Duke in rebounding (7.3), 
where they should get it. He'll minutes played (30.5), and do that." charges taken (13). Exultations from coaches, 
The Bowie, Md., native has players and fans came in the been the team's leading wake of a stellar junior year, rebounder in nine games and but Ferry's third season began Duke's top scorer in 10 con­with relatively little hoopla tests, including his ACC record­from the media. North breaking 58-point explosion in Carolina's J.R. Reid was grab­the Blue Devils' defeat of bing most of the attention at Miami in December. that point, although Ferry 
But the opposition is fright­finished the season well ahead ened by more than Ferry's of his Tar Heel rival in most numbers--they reveal only statistical categories. part of the story. The im­Pollsters failed to include measurable intangibles of Fer­Ferry in their pre-season All­ry's game must also be consid­America picks Most eventually ered in order to appreciate the regretted that decision as impact he has made upon Duke Danny Ferry Ferry dominated the confer­basketball. ence in the 1987-88 campaign. 
Ferry remains the catalyst This season, Ferry's face He led the league with 19.6 for the 12th-ranked Blue was plastered on the cover of points per game and pulled Devils; his passing, court pres­nearly all the pre-season col­down 7.6 rebounds while dis­ence and leadership all help lege hoops magazines. Never in hing out 139 assists for good 
hold this team together. From the annals of Blue Devil bas­measure. an individual standpoint, Ferry ketball had one player received "He's (Ferry) one of the has worked this year to refine as much pre-season publicity great players that we have in 
his game to a point of near per­as Ferry. the college game," said Ken­fection. Although the notoriety tucky head coach Eddie Sutton. 
Basketball experts continu­pleases the Blue Devil faithful, "You're not going to be able to The Observer I File Photo ally claim Ferry has redefined the opposition has forced Ferry stop him by any means, but you Duke forward Danny Ferry (35) guards former Irish stalwart Donald the big man's game, and his to pay a hefty price for his fame hope that you'll be able to keep Royal (15) during Notre Dame's 198~ overtime win over the Blue 
performance this season has during the season. him under control." 
Devils. The 6-10 All-American has come a long way since that game, 
justified those statements. "I definitely think that, be­
In which he shot 3-of-12 before fouling out.
"Ferry is one of those rare cause I'm getting all these pre­Although Ferry's juniorplayers who doesn't so much season honors, it is going to put season was his coming-out lenges come from the fact that
play a position as he does play a little more attention on me party, his sophomore season Jackson the 6-2 Jackson lines up at smallthe game," said Ron Green, Jr., 

by the people I'm playing was filled with many record­forward. That lineup actually
of Basketball Weekly. "He's against," said Ferry before the breaking moments. continued from page 3 works much like a three-guard
capable of controlling a game season. "They're not going to During the 1986-87 season, 
shooter (85 percent), Jackson setup with Jackson Fredrickwith his wonderful talents." have to look too far to know who Ferry became the first player also has emerged as Notre and Tim Singleton, but he still 
Recently, Ferry sat out the Duke is, who their better in the 35-year history of the Dame's biggest threat from usually is faced with the taskfirst game of his collegiate 
players are. And they're going ACC to lead his team in scoring three-point range (18-of-36). of guarding a much taller op­career against North Carolina to key on us this year because 04.0 points per game), During his freshman season, he ponent.
State because of a back injury we're going to have a really rebounding (7.8) and assists made the first three-pointer in "Most nights I go up againstincurred in the second half of good team." (141, 4.3 per game). · Notre Dame history. guys 6-5, 6-6, 6-7, sometimes 6­Duke's 82-72 win over "Some other big guys, some 
"He's got a lot of confidence 8," said Jackson. "It's a chal­Maryland. He returned the other forwards and centers "Danny Ferry is one of the in the three-point shot, and he lenge, and I'm not expected to 
next game and notched 12 around the league are going to best passers since Larry Bird has the green light on the three­do well, but I'm not intimidated points in the Blue Devils' 92-62 

say, 'This guy is getting so and Bill Bradley," former point shot," said Phelps. "Ob­by anyone.destruction of Clemson. much publicity, I can make my Southern Methodist coach and viously, he's a good transition "I just go out and do the"My back feels really good," name against him.' That's a big current New Mexico coach player, yet defensively we things I'm taught to do."Ferry said last Sunday. "My challenge for me. It's going to Dave Bliss said during last usually put him on some good That motto may sound ordi­
biggest problem right now is be tough. It's exciting." 

season's NCAA Tournament. people. He goes both ways for nary and cliche-ridden, but itgetting back in shape." 
The elder Ferry also "He's got a phenomenal gift. us and comes up with the good certainly has taken Jackson
Ferry has become one of col­predicted that opponents will He's real soft hands and challenge." farther than anyone could have 



I  Through Wednesday  
PLAYER  G-S  MIN-AVG  FG-A Pet.  3P-A  Pet.  FT·A  Pet.  REB  AVG  A  ST  BK  TP  AVG  
I_  LEIIis  14-13  441-32  92-147.626  0-0  .000  26-43  .605  143  10.2  15  13  22  210  15.0  
J.Fredrick  14-14  402-29  82-148.554  12-22  .545  29-45  .644  28  2.0  38  11  1  205  14.6  
J.Jackson  14-14  429-31  65-138.471  18-36  .500  28-33  .848  57  4.1  27  14  0  176  12.6  
~  K.Robinson T.Singleton  14-7 14-13  355-25 379-27  65-120.542 30-51 .588  1-1 0-1  1.000 .000  42-59 25-37  .712 .676  125 25  8.9 1.8  7 81  5 21  1 0  173 85  12.4 6.1  
K.EIIery  8-0  133-17  17-40.425  8-18  .444  5-16  .313  22  2.8  11  2  0  47  5.9  
I  E.Bennett D.Sweet  14-1 14-0  187-13 150-11  26-62.419 24-49.490  0-3 0-0  .000 .000  7-17 7-10  .412 .700  22 16  1.6 1.1  28 6  10 2  2 1  59 55  4.2 3.9  
I  S.Paddock  13-7  191-15  18-35.514  0-0  .000  3-11  .273  64  4.9  3  1  1  39  3.0  
I I  T.Crawford K.Adkins K.Tower  6-0 9-0 13-1  11-2 32-4 115-9  6-10 .600 2-14 .143 3-12 .250  1-1 1-8 0-0  1.000 .125 .000  2-3 5-9 7-15  .667 .556 .467  3 5 27  0.5 0.6 2.1  0 3 3  0 1 2  0 0 7  15 10 13  2.5 1.1 1.0  
Notre Dame  2825  430-826521  41·90  .456  186-298  .624  572  40.9  222 82  35  1087  n.6  
Opponents  2825  354-799443  60·145  .414  188-283  .664  398  28.4  166  114  51  956  68.3  
BLUE DEVIL STATS  ·  
-·  Through Wednesday  
Nama Ferry  G-GS 16-16  MIN-AVG 485-30.3  FG-A 131-233  Pet. .562  3P·A 16-42  Pet. .381  FT·A 72-98  Pet. .735  Reb-Avg 114-7.1  AIt 86  TO 51  BS 10  St 20  Pla 350  Avg. 21.9  
Brickey  17-17  467-27.5  82-142  .5n  2-6  .333  45-82  .549  92-5.4  23  37  19  23  211  12.4  
Henderson  17-17  472-27.8  72-125  .576  13-31  .419  38-51  .745  62-3.6  49  40  5  16  195  11.5  
Abdelnaby  16-11  274-17.1  72-107  .673  0-0  .000  28-40  .700  63-3.9  5  21  10  6  172  10.8  
Smith  17-0  306-18.0  47-83  .566  12-23  .522  27-38  .711  62-3.6  12  23  2  11  133  7.8  
Laettner  17-7  238-14.0  47-68  .691  0-0  .000  39-58  .672  71-4.2  16  25  11  15  133  7.8  
Snyder  17-17  510-30.0  45-111  .405  18-56  .321  18-30  .600  25-1.5  114 46  8  38  126  5.3  
Koubek  17-0  312-18.4  34-88  .386  2-20  .100  20-29  .690  55-3.2  22  26  0  10  90  5.3  
Buckley  16-0  101-6.3  17-25  .680  o-o  .000  6-10  .600  24-1.5  3  5  1  4  40  2.5  
Davis  12-0  81-6.8  8-25  .320  0-0  .000  8-17  .471  11-0.9  12  11  0  6  24  2.0  
Palmer  13-0  89-6.8  11-18  .611  0-0  .000  2-9  .222  17-1.3  2  8  5  4  24  1.8  
Cook  5-0  48-9.6  3-5  .600  0-0  .000  2-3  .667  6-1.2  6  8  0  2  8  1.6  
Burgin  7-0  17-2.4  2-3  .667  0-0  .000  0-2  .000  1-.1  1  0  0  1  4  0.6  
Duke  17  3400  571-1033  .553  63-178  .354  305-467  .653  655-38.5  351  302  71  156 1510  88.8  
Opponents  17  3400  425-1025  .415  63-183  .344  229-359  .638  543-31.9  212  366  36  104 1142  67.2  

II I I I I ' I • • I " I • • . I " • I I • " " • • ' 
SCHEDULES 

NOTRE DAME (11-3) DUKE (14-3) 
. ST. BONAVENTURE, 92-72 d. Kentucky, 80-55 
d. 
Kentucky, 81-65 d. THE CITADEL, 93-52 

d. 
INDIANA, 84-71 d. EAST CAROLINA, 95-46 


d. 
CREIGHTON, 77-64 d. STETSON, 90-62 

I. 
Valparaiso, 68-71(0T) d. Miami, 117-102 

d. 
Pennsylvania, 60-55 d. WAKE FOREST, 94-88 

I. 
San Francisco 79-75 d. CORNELL, 94-59 

d. 
Portland, 80-58 d. Washington, 87-61 

d. 
UCLA, 82-79 d. DAVIDSON, 101-53 

d. 
SMU, 67-45 d. Virginia, 84-76 

I. 
Syracuse, 99-87 d. WM.& MARY, 100-38 

d. 
Rutgers, 85-63 d. Maryland, 82-72 

d. 
Temple, 64-60 I. NORTH CAROLINA, 71-91 




d. Dayton, 85-75 I. Wake Forest, 71-78 Feb. 2 -MARQUETTE I. NC State, 73-88 Feb. 5 -DUKE d. CLEMSON, 92·62 Feb. 8 -at Fordham Feb. 2 -at Georgia Tech Feb. 11 ·USC Feb. 5 -at Notre Dame Feb. 14 -BOSTON COLLEGE Feb. 8 -VIRGINIA Feb. 16 -LASALLE Feb. 11 ·MARYLAND Feb. 19 -HOUSTON Feb. 14 -at Harvard Feb. 21 -at Dayton Feb. 18 -KANSAS Feb. 25 -at Georgia Tech Feb. 20 -at Georgia Tech Mar. 1 -DePAUL Feb. 23 -NC STATE Mar. 4 -LOUISVILLE Feb. 26 -Arizona 
Mar. 6 -at Butler Mar. 1 -at Clemson Mar. 8 -at Marquette Mar. 5 -at North Carolina 

Friday, February 3, 1989 

13th Revue ranks with best 
JOHN BLASI ter Revue than in past years. ing Experience." Bill Mor­One of the best acts of the TRISHA CHAMBERS Instead of innumerable slams dan, as the mad night was a modern dance BETH HEALY on members of other dorms scientisVadministrator, and parody entitlied "Flowers: A ROBYN SIMMONS (aside from Stanford), the his hunchback assistant Modern Dance." The skits focused on the Frank Barletta were appro­hilarious sketch pitted Mark 
accent editors 

Keenanites themselves, com­priately diabolical in their Sanders as the fairy godmot­
T
he 13th Keenan mercials, movies, and guys roles. her against the forces of Revue combined a rather than girls. Silvidi and Steve Traubert darkness and death. shortened program Almost every academic should be praised for their with more diverse major at Notre Dame and Monty Pythonesque parody of Other Keenanites displayed skits to produce Saint Mary's drew fire. The the dining hall "police." As the serious side of their musi­one of the best shows in skit entitled "Physics Gods" dining hall monitors, Silvidi cal talents. One of the recent years. Even with only was particularly witty. Accor­and Traubert effectively original musical compositions three nights to rehearse, the ding to their version, Physics prevented the smuggling of included a ballad by Keith 240 Keenanites presented a 997 featured God as the pro­food and proved equally suc­Tadrowski entitled "Down in polished performance. fessor and Moses as his T .A. cessful at garnering big Hollywood.'' Tadrowski sang The final 41 skits were se­The four students chanted laughs. and played the piano, while lected from more than 100 their answers in unison, while Sensitive viewers should be Mark Sanders accompanied auditions which contained an arts and letters major forewarned of the phallic him on violin. subject matter other than the paged through a Sports Il­themes of several acts. Freud Although there were some hackneyed Breen-Phillips and lustrated in the corner. would have had a field day weaker acts, the Keenanites Saint Mary's jokes. The Fans of last year's show studying such sketches as were able to put on a great judges wanted to produce a may rest assured, as some of "Keenan Size" and "Three show and enjoy themselves at new and improved "Keenan the show's more popular acts Member Piano." the same time. Revue" with new punchlines are back for repeat perfor­The Revue also offered and jibes. "A lot of skits tried mances. The sequel to 1988's several musical numbers; The show moved more out that were very good and "Mr. Olympia" includes Tom two of the best ones harkened quickly than the last year's we considered taking them, "Stick" Shaw's adventures back to favorite 70s songs. 3-lt2 hour performance, with 
.... ·"'· '·''··"'"'· ..,. , but we were just looking for after winning the contest. Keenan proved that disco less dead time between acts. 
something different this As always, the administra­lives as the Village People Silvidi said, "We wanted to year," said director Alan Sil-tion failed to escape the made an appearance with a have a 2-lt2 hour show so that . vidi. Keenanites' wrath. Students medley of their biggest hits people will leave with a good The change in subject mat­facing disciplinary action ex-adapted to the Notre Darnel feeling and think 'I want to ter definitely made for a bet-Saint see that again next year.'" 
fj·· 
~ . 
\.J 
Pete Mouranl 
(left) and Joe 
DeSalvo 
get carded by Matt Most 
Bill Morden as the demonic mad scientist 
and Frank 

-
Barletta a$ Igor prepare to electrlcute JoeOumbra 
(left) for an allegedparfetats 
violation. 



.. 
etc. Friday, February 3, 1989
page 12 




Literary Fest starts Sunday 
GERRY SCIMECA accent writer 
A
ngelo D. is up against it. Mter 37 years as the Champ, a new heavy-weight has made his presence known. He's made a mockery of the Champ's past glories, and in his rhyming insults intends nothing less than to get the worried Champ into the ring to receive a taste of his kinetic superiority. While the Champ's "stomach clenched" at the very name of his chal­lenger, Kid Gullet, the Champ had a strategy to counter the awesome attack of the Kid: starches and heavy syrups. 
Taken from his collection "Descent of Man," "The Champ" is one of many stories where T. Corahessan Boyle inflicts his maniacal wit and vision on a world we think we know. As the highly­acclaimed author of three novels and much short fiction, it is Notre Dame's good for­tune in having Boyle com-


Make a statement with your valentines 
H 
ave you started to shop for St. Valentine's Day yet? I'm asking, because I have some interesting ideas I'd like someone to listen to. I have lots of ideas for which I've never found a listener, and I finally figured out why. My ideas are interesting, but the way I tell my ideas isn't interesting--I punctuate them with verbal and for-

Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
get what I want to say half­way through. 
If you have ideas to get off your chest, they say, you should join a committee. Fat chance! I meet sisters, brot­hers, and priests on this campus, worn out, so they tell me, from running between comittee meetings. I'm as­hamed to tell them I'm not on

-
one lousy committee, and haven't been for years. You know you're brave, said the Wizard of Oz, when you get a medal. You know 
Calvin and Hobbes 


Richard McBrien, director of the Sophomore Literary Fest 
mence this year's Sophomore Literary Festival Sunday night. A black humorist as good as any writing in the 
U.S. today, Boyle, with his ir­reverence and penchant for the satiristically surreal, takes premises as worn as those of "The Champ" and crafts them into stories bub­bling with absurdity, and of­ten, anxiety. 
"The Champ," for example, features a bout between men where the biceps and pec­torals are of much less conse­quence than the jaws and stomach. Two gormandizing gladiators mesmerize an SRO crowd at the Garden in an eating contest covered by ABC Sports and attended by Julia Child, Colonel Sanders and Mamma Leone. 
In his less obviously comic pieces, Boyle is at his most biting, and also his most un­nerving. In "Bloodfall," a group of friends gathered for a night of civil Bohemian celebration suddenly notice a red rain falling along the pro-
you have brains when you get a diploma. You know you're getting old when they send you to Sailors' Snug Harbor, and you know you're impor­tant when you head a com­mittee. I'd like to start a committee to study the committees everyone else is on. Do they ask you to join a committee because you're important, or do you join a 

committee to become impor­tant? 
"The race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong," writes Ecclesiastes. I don't know which school of hard knocks Ecclesiastes at­tended. The swift, as far as I can see, get the lion'sshare; the strong never come out on the short end of the stick. I'd like to put in a good word for the homely, the dull, the meek, and the over-achievers, and you don't have to make an Urban Plunge to find out 
r----------------,

0\-\, NO! mE t>.\R PRt.SSUR£ 'ft£.'1JE GoT TC> IN nus R.ooM 1s 100 GE:r 001 CF 
\41G\4! \.IE.R£! TI\E.RES TOO MUCI-\ 1\Tti\OSP\-\t.R£! 
Senior Bar to host live R&B 
i CHRIS WELSH accent writer 
I 
r f you have R&B in your soul, then the place for 
' 

you to be tonight at
i' 

10:00 is the Alumni­
l Senior Club, where Billy "Stix" Nicks and the N's and Out's will be entertaining those in attendence with a healthy mix of R&B, blues, jazz, soul even some contem­porary music. Bill Nicks, the group's leader has described them as "a multi-talented group with a tatse of music · for everyone." For those unfamiliar with Bill's work, this South Bend Central High School alumnus is no stranger to the music industry. After high school, he and some friends formed a band, the Rhythm Rockers, and appeared regularly on a local teen dance show broad­cast by WNDU-TV. After a stint in the Army in the late 1950's, during which Bill per­formed with the Army Big Band and a small jazz group, he returned to the U.S. and went on the road with Jackie Ivory and the Gents of Soul in 1962. 
In 1966 he began perform­ing with fellow South Bend native Jr. Walker and his "All Stars." They recorded the hit, "How Sweet It Is To Be Loved By You." Together they performed at many fa­mous musical venues, such as portions of Noah's Ark. The comedy arises from the ten­sion of deciding whether it is the end of the world, versus 
ignoring it and putting an­
other souffle in the oven. 
"Descent of Man" shows the growing anxiety of a re­searcher at a primate center as he realizes the woman he loves is slipping away from him. We are caught up in the man's romantic yearnings, despite learning that she is a chimp. 
The Festival itself runs all of next week with a different author reading his work at 8:00p.m. each night in the li­brary auditorium, and a reception follows each reading. Admission is free, and though Boyle's name may be new to you, he is a highly-regarded author whose name may be as familiar as Kurt Vonnegut's in the near future. Sunday night provides a rare opportunity to experi­ence a lively and important personality in literature that won't be soon forgotten. 

the Apollo Theatre in New York, the Uptown in Philadel­phia, Shea Stadium, and Con­stitution Hall in Washington, 
D.C. During his long career Bill Nicks has worked with Marvin Gaye, Gladys Knight and the Pips, the Four Tops, the Temptations, the Spin­ners, Sam and Dave, Wilson Pickett, and many other stars in the Atlantic Records stable of talent. 
In 1985, Bill organized the present group, which consists of Robert Outley, guitar and vocals; Dan Chamberlain, guitar; Steve Parker,keyboards; Duane Lighter bass· Ed "E-Z" Wright,' vocal~; and Billy "Stix" Nicks, drums and vo­cals. They have been per­forming quite regularly at Center St. Blues Cafe in Mis­hawaka, and have received favorable reviews in the process. Michiana Student Expressions called Ed Wright "one of the best performers in the Midwest," and urged readers not to miss "this group's good stuff." 
So if you're in the mood for great live music from Duke Ellington's "Take the 'A' Train" to classic sixties R&B, the party atmospllere and professional sound of Billy "Stix" Nicks and the N's and Outs is waiting for you at the Alumni-Senior Club tonight. Don't miss them. 
who they are. 
Students who go on retreats to study justice and peace should start sending out valentines that make a state­ment. For example: "Dear penpal: I heard you whistling 'The Flight of the Bumblebee,' and thought it was terrific. Your sweet notes made me happy all day, so I hope you'll remember to keep your pucker up." If you toss a couple of birdseeds in the envelope for laughs, you could have an over-achiever as your friend for life. Ad­dressing him or her as penpal doesn't commit you to anyth­ing; but "Be my valentine," sounds like an invitation to go steady. 
St. Valentine's is, or should be, a Christian feast, and that's a good excuse for spreading encouragement among the also-rans who need it. In the wrong hands, it could turn into a popularity contest. Then the day doesn't do anything good for anybody. Hallmark gets rich, and the athletes and the su­perficially pretty have their vanity flattered. 
Bill Watterson 
SIT STilL Noll) 8£1-\ME. 
'«t CM~T E~T t>.T FAST R:lOO ~V..CfS f>.U. 1\-lt. \\ME. 

To avoid the commer­cialism, you could offer your inamorata your good deed for the day, and save yourself the price of a box of candy. "Dear Valentine: I've noticed you like tacos. I like tacos too, and that's a great start for a new relationship, if you're interested. On February 14, I'd like to come over and vacuum your room, if you're not too busy." 
You're wondering, "How come you, Father Griffin, know so much about the human heart? Do you con­sider yourself one of the dull, the meek or the nerds?" Probably; but worst of all, I grew up as a fat child whom the swift children and the brave pushed around, al­though they didn't have to be brave or swift to pick on me, since I couldn't fight, and I couldn't run. 
The scars from my child­hood still show, when I stand in the light. That's probably why I'm not asked to join committees: the chairman can tell I'm not a winner. During World War II, the question was asked: how should we punish Hitler? A girl answered, "Color him black, and send him to America." My answer was, "Fatten him up, and keep him in grade school." I hated February 14. For everyone else, it was Valentine's Day; for me, it was just another feast of fools. 
One year, Catherine Nugent, a redhead, went out of her way to be nice. She send me a card that practi­cally said she loved me, and she invited me to her party, where I split my pants after eating ice cream and cake. Next day at school, I was too embarrassed to look her in the face, and by the time recess was over, we'd started to drift apart. The next day, she met a boy fatter than me; and after that, I never had a chance. 
She died young, but the good always do. In her memory, I've kept those pants to this day. A nun has promised to cut a small patch out of them when I die, and pin it to my shroud. If Cath­erine could see it, she'd know what it was, and laugh. 
You may wonder how much of this story is true, but does it really matter? Listen to a valentine that makes a state­ment. "I expect to pass through the world but once. Any good, therefore, that I can do, or any kindness that I can show to any fellow crea­ture, let me do it now. Let me not defer it or neglect it, for I shall not pass this way again." 
There used to be a soap opera on the radio, "The Guiding Light," and the char­acters in it would repeat this passage like a mantra. This was the message printed in­side Catherine's valentine, and I cherish it like an inter­office memo. It leaves me with questions. Was that girl a painted doll with sawdust for a heart, or wasn't she? Was I a hobby she took up as a ministry to the stout? I've never been sure. What do you think? 

Friday, February 3, 1989 The Observer page 13 
White named NL President 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK--Bill White will be named on Friday to succeed 
A. Bartlett Giamatti as Na­tional League president, be­coming the first black to head a major professional sports league in the United States, The 
Associated  Press  learned  
Thursday.  
White,  a  six-time  All-Star  

first baseman with the New York and San Francisco Giants, St. Louis and Philadel­phia, and a broadcaster with the Yankees for 18 years, was chosen Thursday by the five­man search committee, several sources said. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

SMC co-ed intramural floor hockey captains have a meeting at 6 p.m. Tuesday at the Angela Athletic Facility lounge. Floor hockey games will be on Thursday nights. For more information, call284-5549. -The Observer 
The Nll'SMC Lacrosse Club will hold a meeting Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility lounge for all women interested in forming such a team. -The Ob­server 
The NO Men's Volleyball Club hosts the George O'Grady Memorial Classic this weekend. Friday's first­round action matches Bowling Green versus Miami (Ohio) at 6 p.m. and Notre Dame versus Indiana at 8 p.m. The consolation match will be Saturday at 1 p.m. and the cham­pionship begins at 3 p.m. All matches will be at the Joyce ACC Pit, and admission is free. -The Observer 
Wear green to Sunday's game against Duke. Irish Insanity will sponsor free face painting before the game. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball XVIII has an open assistant commissioner position. Any freshman or sophomore inter­ested in being assistant commissioner can pick up an ap­plication at the student government secretary's office on the the second floor of LaFortune. Applications are due Tuesday. Any questions should be directed to Mike aat x3305. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFor­tune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publica­tion. -The Observer 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. 
until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 




Classifieds 

I NEED 3 DUKE GA"slllll Ted; x1934  ONE-WAY  FLIGHT  TO  BOSTON  ON  MAR IS 21  Hey,  Holden.  Keep  SWimming,  ok?  
NOTICES  WANTED  HELPII NEED DUKE STUDENT OR GA  MARCH 3  LISA X2841  Or Rulla, Marci, Mar-Ber, Ria, or whatever her name is. We like  Thanks for the tape.  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 ...................... Typlng.Wordp-.lng 237·1149 TYPING tenn ~rtW let· t...teaumes. Pick up & dellwry eVJIIImle. 277-5134 10A~PM. EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MAS. COKER, 233-7009. I LOST/FOUND I LOST: Gold bracelet with a two-bead design. Great sentimental value. Call Kathleen at 283-3865. LOST: Jan.17-SILVER BRACELET­either at campus view or on campus near P.E. II was a Christmas gift and it really means a lotto me. Hfound PLEASE call Julie at 4351.$$Sreward  COUNSELORs-Boys camp in Berkshire Mts.. West. Mass. Good Sal.,room & bd,1ravef allowance, beautiful modem lacility,must love children & be able to teach one of the following: Tennis, W.S.I..Sailing Waterski,Basebaii.Besketbaii.Soccer LaCrosse. Wood.A&C ,Rocketry. Photog­raphy,Archery,Pioneering, Ropes.Piano,Drama.Call or write: Camp Winadu,5 Glen La.•Marnaroneck, NY 10543. (914)381-5983 NO Lew achool atudente to be NP8 for Kepten-SIIIH Ber Review COUreM. Eem free bllr review COUIM plua SS'a. Cell 272-4135. Aek for Sue. COUNSELORs-Girls camp in Maine. Good sal.room & bd.,travel allowance, beautiful modem facility .must love children and be able to teach one of the lollowing:Tennls. W.S.T.,Sailing Waterski,Soltbali,Basketball, Soc­cer.LaCrosse.A&C.Photography. Horse­back,Dance,Piano,Drama.Ropes Camp Cralt,Gymnastics.Call or write:Carnp Vega. Box 1771 Duxbury, Mass. 02332 (617)934-6536  TIX. PLEASE CALL BILL AT 4073. Need Louisville GA"s. x.-2339 I NEED 8 LOUISVILLE GA TICKETS CALL Julie 4929 PLEASE HELP ME FIND 4 DUKE GA TIX MY APPRECIATION AND YOUR PROFIT WILL BE ENORMOUS! CALL PAULA 284-4082. HELPIIII NEED 1 DUKE GA CALL JOHN x3367 1 DUKE STUD FOR SALE X1631 HELP MEII need 2 Duke tix.Call Mike at 4075. Need 2 Louisville GAs-luara fl 2535 PERSONALS Hey Sexy-GET SOME -Dictated by Hormones  FEEL THE BLUES FRIDAY AT SENIOR BAR 10:00 P.M. ATTENTION ANY NOOMC WOMEN IN­TEREST ED IN PLAYING LACROSSE CALL KATHY BENZ AT 284-5482. "-SENIORs-· SENOR KELLY'S $3-All YOU CAN EAT TACO BAA FRIDAY, FEB-3 5P~PM "-SENIORs-• "-SENIORS­SENOR KELLY'S $3-ALL YOU CAN EAT TACO BAA FRIDAY, FEB. 3 5P~PM "-SENIORs-• HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY  to think of her as MEDIUM. HAVE A GREAT 8-DAY MAR LOVE, THE PARTY BABES. JUNIORS THE FORMAL IS HERE TONITE IS THE NIGHT! YOU CAN STILL BUY YOUR TIXS 1-4 IN THE CLASS OFFICE $14 DON'T MISS rr YOU'Ll REGRET rr BUSES LEAVE MAIN CIRCLE AT 8:45,9:15,11:45 CONGRATULATIONS TO THE NEW IRISH ACCENT PLAYERS!! Jennifer Ahrens, Katherine Gaham, Kym­berly MacArthur, Therese McCaughey, SherryAnn MorTis. Anna Wiese, Tony Fiore. Brian Maggio, Brad Perry, Kari Rohling, and Tim Flood-A~ernate. Unda Baily Good luck on GRE's Time to parlyl SOFT PORN ALERT SECTION 1-B OF CAVANAUGH RE­QUESTS THAT ALL PERVERTED MEN OF NO PROCLAIM THEIR "BAD ATTI· TUDES" ABOUT WOMEN BY PLACING THE SWIMSUIT ISSUE IN THEIR  VERY SPECIFIC PERSONAL Thanks lor your generic personal. Gaibyl Here"s one just lor you: Will you go out with me?l! Reply here. Have a great day! -Tony Bosoo, your SA Suzanne H. of PW. This is not a pick-up line nor is nmeant to be one. It's simply a com­pliment. You have THE most beautiful eyes I have ever _,_ An Admirer. J. OVERSEAS JOBS~ mo. Summer,Yr.rounci-AII Countrlee,AII llelde. F-Info. Wrlla IJC, PO Bx 52· IH04, Corone Del Mer, CA 112125. MEN OF NO UNITE!! Show your unity and support by wearing a baseball cap to Sunday Brunch this weekend. Hyou have extras. bring them along so that no man wll have to go without a symbol of NO male solidarity. SWEATPANTS OPTIONAL. Won"! you support this noble cause? BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE NO CHAP­TER OF THE NATIONAL COMMITTEE  
............. LOST................ Gold hear1 locket !rom necklaca between Hurley and South dining hall Monday-PLEASE return if found! Kristin x1124 LOST: 30 Macintosh diskettes from my car in C1. The importance of those disks  Want to Improve Your CAREER?Be Your Own Boss? Need Par1 Time Income? I Have An OUTSTANDING OPPORTU­NITY wrth Network 2000 an Authorized Independent Marketer of US SPRINT long distance services. Call Oliver 234­5723 Independent Marketing Rep.  LAW SCHOOL: Stert your Ber Review Nrty. Keple~H rwlewa fo meny atetee eYIIIillble here In South Bencl. Tranafer beck home for eummer. Dla­counta for Kepilln LSAT elumnl. AeMrw befora Merch 2 Cell 272-4135. Aek for Sue.  MARK PAOKOPIUS F FEBRUARY 3 G-E·L·E-11-A·A-T-Ell WITH LOVE FROM GRANOMAS,  DORM WINOOWIII BY THE WAY DON'T FORGET TO MAKE YOUR COMPARISONS! ·········fio.cH"ici<s:·;;vA"iUiB·,Lm;········· 0 (NO USEFUL WORK ATTAINABLE) LUV. ME90  FOR THE PROPAGATION OF HOSTILE GENDER RELATIONS. JOE BRINK letters mailed lhru campus mail do not count. wil write soon. Hyou hurt the dogs.  
cannot be exagerated. $$$ lor inlonna­tion leading to the return of them. Please call fl 4936 or 289-1628. Or nyou already have them, please return them to 230 Knott Hall. No questions ssked. LOST: Gold Quartz Consort Watch with a black band. II found call Jennie 283­3688. Did you find a silver pocket watch? ~is worth nothing, but ij was my grndlather"s. I lost ~ Saturday. Reward S is offered. Please call me Kristen fl 4812 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ BANDANA:LOST IN CCE BLDG LIGHT PINK WITH BLUE PRINT STATING "SKI-LOVE­LAND" AROUND THE EDGES. MEANS A LOT TO ME SO IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL HEAT­HER MAVERICK AT 284-4052. REWARD!!! LOST:PART OF A SILVER KEY CHAIN WITH INITIALS ANO "12-25-88"0N BACK PLEASE CALL 3540. LOSTI-gold high school class ringll any info PLEASE contact Jim x40481 FOUND Futur&Ouartz watch in 114 O"Shag alter 1 :15 Wed class. Turned ~ into LaFortune losl'lound  Rental Represenative-Ryder Truck Rental, 20GO hrs per week, weekends call 277-3550 Afternoon babysitter needed. 2 or 3 days per week, 3:30.£:00 pm. Must have own car. can 288-6428 eves alter 6 or weekend. FOR SALE Order your TEXTBOOKS 25% OFF! SAVE $$$ on paperbacks. 30o/o OFF! PANOORA"S BOOKS 808 Howard St. Just 3 blocks from campus. PH# 233­2342 le 11 True You C.n Buy Jeepe for S44 through the U.S. gowmment? Gel the f8cle tocleyl Cell 1-312·742·1142 Ex· 1.7318 For Sale-nearly new HP15C. Best offer. Call LAURA, 2568. LOOKIN FOR A JUOO Gl? We have 2, sizes 3 & 4 lor $25 each, or best offer. Melissa x3477 or Laura x3948. MCAT MATERIALS FOR SALE Call Dr. John at 3419 or risk failing ....  SUMMER JOBS All LANDWATEA SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDAENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-800-343-8373 JOHN CAPANO-Happy 20th Birthday! Love-Chief SPRING BREAK DAYTONA. Spend 7nt..tldllye .. Spring B,_k'e HOT· TEST rwort, The Clerandon PiiiDI home of Penrocl'wThe Plentlltlon Club end the illrveet pool deck ON THE BEACH! $1115 per peraon limited llf!Ke. Celltocllly B,_owey Toura 1· 800-444-73114. F5 SUMMER PROGRAMS SMC & NO­LONDON (MAY 24-JUNE 23) ROME (JUNE 16­JULY 17) TRAVEL IN IRELAND, SCOT­LAND, FRANCE, GERMANY. SWITZ., TAKE UP TO 9 CREDITS. COURSES IN ART, BUSI­NESS, EDUCATION, HIST., ITALIAN JUSTICE. INFO MEETING FEB.13 IN 351 MEDELEVA. PASSPORT PIC­TURES AVAIL-VABLE. FOR INFO CALL PROF. A.A. BLACK 284-4460 OR 272­3726. SOUTH PADRE ISLAND FOR SPRING  AUNT MAMIE MOM, DAD, OONN & RYAN The UNDERGROUND presents: CHESIAE Acoustic folk rock 9:30 pm Friday Feb. 3rd CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING See one of NO's hottest bands 9:30 pm Saturday Feb 4th The UNDERGROUND Is located in the basement of GRACE Hall UVE MUSICII KERRY W. BAD TIMING IS WHAT WE HAD THIS PAST WEEKEND THANKS TO ANNIE PAT AND DAVE. HOPE­FULLY WE WILL HAVE BETTER LUCK NEXT TIME MICHELLE P.S. DO YOU REALLY HAVE A "BUFF' BODY? 8 BANANNAS STOLEN FROM SMC CAFETERIA. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL ANN VOLZ 284-5405  DUE TO RECENT FIRE, BALLOON DELIGHT IS NO LONGER IN BUSI­NESS. ONE OF THE OLD "'CLOWNS"" HAS COME OUT OF RETIREMENT AND IS READY TO TAKE YOUR OR­DERS FOR BOUQUETS, ARRANGE­MENTS OR PARTY DECORATIONS. WE HAVE 2 LINES AND CLOWNS STANDING BY TO TAKE YOUR REG­ULAR ORDER OR YOUR SPECIAL VALENTINE ORDER. CALL 258-5133 OR 258-5115 OR STOP IN AND SEE US AT 513 E. MCKINLEY. Abby Pesta's top 10 favorite words: BLAH Insipid Turlel Far1 Arse Maniacal Bufugly Hoss Circus and Roadkill. Have a happy birthday you maniacal psycho geekll Love, EVIL and the TURLET POLICE DESPARATELY DESPARATELY . I NEED ONE OR MORE TICKETS FOR . INTERNATIONAL STUDENT FESTIVAL ERIC 283 1595 UVE MUSIC FREDDY JONES BAND BACK BY POPULAR DEMAND MCCORMICK'S  your parents get it. Send your phone # . Say hey to Madonna and JP2 Tl< Smagala, we're eorry. you 11n1 a good DB. We take rt all back, we didn"t mean to call you "bast". The Stan Fen Club Happy 19th Dan Sulivanlllll Love, Aim CHRIS WEPPNER Is ~ true you went skinny dipping in St. Joe"a lake last se­mester? &Melanie Welcome to NO! So glad U could make ~-Saft & Pepa had to bug out to nile. but George Michael & Madonna said they"d drop by later for pizza (let"s) Have an awa.>me weekend. M CLASSIC ROCK BAND SEEKING BASS PLAYER. C.l 1187 (Slaw) ICEBERG DEBATES MONDAY 9-10PM CORESIDENTIAL HOUSING AT N.O.? ICEBERG DEBATES MONDAY NIGHT AT 9 500e PEOPLE LAST WEEK  
LOST-BROWN HORN GLASSES!! CAN'T SEE SHANA 26911!  RIMMED SO CALL  MCAT MATERIALS FOR SALE Call Dr. John at 3419 or risk failing ....  BREAK 7 Nights Luxury Condominiums, Round Trip Air Transportation. The official Notre Dame endorsed  SMC ASPA IS SPONSORING BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS DAY IN A BOWLING WAYI COME TO CHIPPEWA  125 N. MICHIGAN FRIDAY AND SAnJADAY 10 PM  WEAR GREEN TO DUKE  
FOR SALE: TICKET ON  ROUNDTRIP PIEDMONT.  PLANE GOOD  trip. $437. To sign up call Bob 283-1521 or Student Activities 011.  at  LANES SAT. FROM 2:30 TO 4:30-ALL WELCOME!! FOR MORE INFO CALL  WOMEN'S CARE CENTER PHONE·A·  GO IRISH-WEAR GAEENII  
ANYWHERE IN THE U.S. FOR 1 YEAR.  239-7757.  271-0754 OR 283-4018  THON  
FOR RENT  BEST OFFER. CALL KEVIN 1631.  SMC  ASPA  IS  SPONSORING  BIG  FEB. 8 THAU FEB II AND f:EB. 13 THAU FEB. 18  WEAR GREEN TO DUKE  
HOUSE FOR RENT 3 BLOCKS FROM NO 3 BEDROOMS-$47&MO 516 NAPOLEON 232-3616  TICKETS  BRIGHTEN YOUR LIFE!! MEET THAT SOMEONE SPECIAL THROUGH OUR SINGLES CLUB. INTRO SINGLES CLUB. BOX 3006, BOSTON. MA 02130.  BROTHERS BIG SISTERS DAY IN A BOWLING WAYI COME TO CHIPPEWA LANES SAT. FROM 2:30-4:30-ALL WELCOMEII FOR MORE INFO CALL 271-0754 OR 283-4018  CALL KEVIN BELTON AT THE CEN­TER 232·7781 FOR MORE DETAILS READ THIS AD!  Green Run NO T-shirts available from Irish lnsanity4i.OO -CALL 283-1562 GO IRISH-WEAR GAEENII  .. ,.  
6  BDAM  HSE  AVAILABLE  119-90  
SCHOOL YEAR. 875tl0. 234-9384. FOUR FLAGS FARM BED 'N BREAK· FAST JUST 20 MINS. FROM ND.IDEAL FOR All NO ACTIYmES. RESERVE NOW FOR ALL UPCOMING EVENTS. 616-471-5711. HAVE YOUR PARENTS STAY AT THE IRISH B&B DURING JPW. LOCATED 2 Ml FROM N.D. FOR INFO. RING 272­ HELPIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I REALLY NEED TWO DUKE GA"S SOON! $$$ PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 2163 AND LEAVE A MESSAGE $$$$$$$$$$$$$ 4 Duke tixs lor sale. 272-6306 NEED DUKE TICKETS BADLVIII CALL PETE AT 277-4165 LOUISVILLE STUDENT TICKET 4 SALE  Collegiate Jazz Festival Logo constest. Entries due Feb. 6 4:00 in Student Ac­tivities Office in LaFortune. Winning Entries will receive a $75 prize and will become properly of CJF. Questions? contsct Student Activities Office. SENIOR BAA SENIOR BAA Billy "STIX" Nicks and the N"s and OUTS 10:00 p.m. FRIDAY  ST. JUDE"S NOVENA May the Sacred Heart of Jesus be adored,glorified,loved and preserve throughout the world now and lorev-rer.Sacred Hearl of Jesus have mercy on us.St.Jude.help of the home­less, pray lor us.Say this prayer 9 times a day.By the 8th day your prayer will be answered.Say ~ lor 9 days. It has never been known to fail. Publication must be promised.Thank you St.Jude. OS  GONG SHOW AUDITIONS Cell x1597 NOW READ rr AGAIN. DO "WHATEVER" YOU LIKE IN FRONT OF HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE! ANYTHING GOES! INTERESTED? Cell x15117 to be In the GONG SHOW. (Don't be llhyl)  CATHOLICS IN BAD STANDING CATMOUCS IN BAD STANDING At the Grace Hall Collee Shop Salurday nightllll Come and enjoy the Prograeaive Rock and Roll soundalll  
7738.  CALL 2964 BETH  KATHY HABIGER nJANS 21 SAT.I  
ROOMS FOR RENT. ALSO 2 BDAM HOME 3 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. 272-6306  Need 5 DUKE Tix. Stud or Ga call x1252  GATHER AGAINST APARTHEID TODAYII 12:15 OOIIIE STEPS  MARIA CODY IS 21 MARIA CODY IS 21  Cell x3212 to wlah her heppy lkleyl (I'll aave my wtllh for tomorrow) Love, Tllll  BH-Someday your prince wil oorne... let"s hope he"s not too WILD for you  

----------~-------------------------------------------~--------~----~-------------, ~pag~e~14~--------------------------------------------~T~h~e~O~b~s~e~~~e~r______________________________________Fr_id_a~y,_F_e brua~3. 1989 


Weaver, ND meet No.8 Oklahoma 
By DAVE McMAHON Sports Writer 
Freshmen Chuck Weaver 
and Marcus Gowens will return 
to their old stomping grounds 
Saturday as the Irish wrestling 
squad travels to Norman, 
Okla., to take on the eighth­
ranked Sooners. 
The first-ever matchup 
against Oklahoma should be 
one of Notre Dame's most dif­
ficult matches on the schedule. 
"We'll have to wrestle seven 
minutes in each match if we're 
going to win," said head coach 
Fran McCann. 
Weaver, who compliled a 130­
5-1 record at the heavyweight 
level over four years at Mid­
west City (Okla.) High School, 
is coming off an 11-1 defeat to 
Michigan State's Mark Zenas. 
Gowens, 95-12 at the 126-pound 
mark at Del City (Okla.) High 
School, also lost in the Mic­
higan State dual meet to Brian 
Smith. 
The Irish, with one of the 
toughest dual meet schedules 
in the nation, are looking for­
ward to the challenge of facing 
the powerful Sooners. 
"Just the fact that they are 
on the schedule says a lot for 
how far this program has 
come, and where we wnat it to 
go," said McCann. 
Weaver began his successful 
career at the ripe age of eight. 
The road to his promising fu­
ture began with an interesting 
twist. 
"I walked into a sporting goods store to buy football pads and the owner, who was the co­ach of a YMCA wrestling team, asked me if I wanted to try out for his team," said Weaver. 
"He said I looked liked I would have a shot at making the team, so I tried out and the rest is history." 
Just like most successful ath­letes, an extensive childhood program can be a key to the athlete's future. In Oklahoma, the wrestling mat becomes a familiar place to youngsters. 
"We had a great Little League program," said Weaver. "The high school coaches put the finishing touches on everything we learned throughout grade school." 
The close ties that he made while growing up in one of the premier wrestling states will be out in force to see Chuck in his homecoming. But the pres­sure of his family and friends attending the meet doesn't con­cern Weaver. 
"I'm real excited about having the opportunity to go back home to see everyone," he said. "It'll be nice to have all my friends cheering for me when I need their support. Hopefully I can come away with a win and get some people to recognize the program we're establishing." 
While the decision of which school to attend can be a rigorous task for student ath­letes, Chuck knew immediately after he left his Notre Dame recruiting trip that this was the place for him. 
"I got on the plane and some­thing inside told me Notre Dame was the place for me," he said. "I felt like I belonged here." 

Irish hockey puts win streak on line 
By FRANK PASTOR Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame hockey team looks to extend its season­high three-game winning streak and gain a measure of revenge when it takes on familiar rival Michigan­Dearborn this weekend in a home-and-home series. 
The Irish (9-21-2) host the Wolves Friday at 7:30p.m. at the Joyce ACC. The two teams face off again the following night at 7:30p.m. in Dearborn, Mich. 
Notre Dame owns a 1-2-1 record against Michigan­Dearborn this season in a po­tential six-game series. The Irish won the first game of the series, 4-1 on Nov. 4 and tied the Wolves 3-3 the following night. Michigan-Dearborn swept the last two games but faces a much-improved Notre Dame hockey squad this weekend. 
"I think we're playing a little better hockey right now," said Irish coach Ric Schafer. "We've experienced a little bit of success, which helps us play even a little bit better. We're going in with a very positive attitude. We'd like to even the score up with Dearborn." 
Michigan-Dearborn (15-11-2) is coming off a trip to Alaska in which it defeated and tied Alaska-Anchorage and was swept by Alaska-Fairbanks in a two-game series. The Seawolves of Alaska­Anchorage trounced Notre Dame 8-3 earlier this season. 

"They're playing pretty good hockey right now, too," said Schafer of last year's Ameri­can Collegiate Hockey Associ­ation playoff finalist Michigan­Dearborn. "They had a fairly successful trip to Alaska. They're a good hockey team. We have a lot of respect for them." 
The Wolves are led by left wing Tim Osburn (20 goals, 32 assists, 52 points), center Joe Burton (25-25-50) and wing Larry Pilut (14-16-30). The trio accounted for seven goals and 12 points when the two teams last squared off in a home-and­home series Dec. 2 and 3. 
Notre Dame has won three straight games, five of its last six and six of its last nine con­tests. Last weekend the Irish routed Canisius 4-0 and 5-2 in a pair of home victories. Mter scoring just 2.7 goals per game in its first 22 games, Notre Dame has averaged 4.6 per game in its last ten contests. 
"We scored some goals when the opportunity presented it­self," said Schafer. "We managed to allow them only two goals on the weekend. We have to do more of the same if we're to be successful this weekend." 

A Spectator's Guide to Fencing 
In foil touches are scored with the point of the blade and must land whithin the torso of the body (colored area on drawing). The fencer's valid target area is covered with a metallic threaded vest. When an opponent's blade hits the vest, the depressable tip completes an electrical circuit which sets off a light and a buzzer on a scoring machine. A colored light signifies a valid hit, and a white light signifies an off-target hit. The director must then decide who is to be awarded the touch on the basis of "right of way" rules. 
Sabre fencing allows touches to be scored with cutting motions as well as with the point of the blade. The target area is the entire body above the bend of the hips. There is no electrical scoring in sabre fencing, therefore a jury composed of the director and four side judges is used. If any of the judges see a hit they raise their hand, and the bout is halted. The director then analyzes the actions according to the "right of way" rules and the judges are polled (each judge has one vote and the director has one and a half votes). 
The epee is a descendant of the dueling sword. In epee touches are scored only with the point of the blade, and the entire body is the valid target area. Touches are registered by means of electrical scoring equipment (as in foil). There is no "right of way" in epee, he who hits first scores a touch and if both hit at the same time both score a touch. All bouts in all weapons go until a fencer scores five touches or time is called. In epee if both fencers are tied when time is called, they both lose, however, in foil and sabre the next touch wins. 



Fencing 
continued from page 20 

newcomers. The Irish foilists wil have the most depth, with the top three spots held by Yehuda Kovacs, Derek Holeman and Phil Leary. 
"This weekend is without a doubt a key matchup for the Irish," said junior Joel Clark. "It will be critical for us to prove that we can rally both at home and on the road." 
The Irish sabremen will be led by seniors Geoff Rossi and Tim Collins. In addition, soph­omore Lesek Nowosielski will 
attempt to add to an undefeated +--"'!""!'-~--:-:":""'~---.. 
freshman year in his first com-Lincolnwood Motel petition of the new season. Two 3300 L.W.W. (US 20) weeks ago the Canadian native open 24 hoursl All'modem clean units was home participating in the LOW daily, weekly, group rates· 
FREE cable, phone· and coffee

Canadian Olympic Circuit. ( )
219 234_4063

In epee, seniors Ted Fay and 
Under New Man~ement 


Todd Griffee will be joined by freshman David Calderhead. Both Wayne State and Mic­higan should give the Irish some tough bouts this weekend. 
The Irish resurgence in com­petitiveness and vitality exhib­ited two weeks ago can be at­tributed to several factors. Undisputedly, one factor is the presence of assistant coach Mike Marx. As a U.S. National Champion, Marx's effect on the Irish has been invaluable. 
"I can't even begin to detail the influence that Mike Marx has had on the kids," said DeCicco. "With the kind of en­thusiasm he has brought to the team, he has raised the level of competition a full notch. When the kids scrimmage against him, it's infinitely bet­ter than any bouts on the weekend. The chemistry is right at this moment." 

By this time next week, DeCicco feels that he will be in a better position to evaluate the true potential of the Irish. At that point the Irish will have 
Library 

faced some of their staunchest opponents in the likes of Wayne State and Detroit, and will have received results and scouting reports on potential spoilers like Illinois and Ohio State. 
This weekend's action begins at 9 a.m. on Saturday and resumes with a dual meet against Wayne State at 9:30 
a.m. Sunday. 
The.: Nal1011\ I.:Jrgt'!ool Puhlbht·r t>l <.ampu:<! Tt.:lt·phtJnc..· l>in..Tioric..·..., 


SUMMER JOBS 
OPPORTUNI1Y! 

Make the transition into the husines~ world sl'lling ydlow page advertising for your campus telephone directory or for other campus directories nationwide. 
EXPERIENCE! 

(iain Valuable Experience in Sale~. Advertising. :'vlarketing and Public Relations. 
TRAINING! 

Five Day Expense-Paid Sales Training Program in Chapl'l Hill, North Carolina. Train with 200 other college students from anoss the country. 
MONEY! 

$5,100 Average Earnings tc:>r tht· Ten Week Salc:s Period. Opportunity !(Jr a Prot!tablc: Summer. 
Interviewing on Campus: Monday, February 13 
Sign-up: Career and Placement Services, Lower Level Hesburgh 
Friday, February 3, 1989 The Observer page 15 
ND Women's tennis hosts Eck Doubles Classic 
By CHRIS COONEY Sports Writer 
There will be plenty of activ­ity at the Eck Tennis Pavillion this weekend. 
"Students at Notre Dame will be able to see some of the best collegiate doubles in the nation," said Michele Gelfman, the head coach of the Notre Dame women's tennis team. 
The activity is the second an­
nual Eck Doubles Classic oc­

Coach Bob Bayliss and assistant coach Mike Owens (background) try to figure out the Big 10 competition against Michigan earlier this season. 
curring Friday through Sunday at Eck. 
Ten of the best teams from each region in the nation will travel to Notre Dame this weekend to participate in the tournament, which begins today at8 a.m. The competition includes Nebraska, Ohio State, Rice, Northwestern, Temple, Fordham, Western Michigan, Marquette and Northern Illi­nois. Gelfman cites Northwes­tern as probably the most talented team entered. None of 
The Observer I Trey Raymond 

the participating schools are ranked nationally. 
Gelfman thinks that the for­mat will take pressure off of the Irish women and allow them to concentrate on playing their best doubles. Separate tournaments will be played at each of the four doubles posi­tions. 
"All the girls are playing and they don't have the pressure of a dual meet," said Gelfman. "They can just go out there and play their best doubles without worrying about a team result." 
Play begins at 8 a.m. each morning and continues throughout the day. A round­robin will be played Friday all day until 7 p.m., and will con­tinue until Saturday afternoon. The round-robin will determine the placement of doubles teams in the final tournament. 
The finals begin Saturday and will continue until 3 p.m. Sunday. Every doubles pair eventually will play three matches each day. 
Gelfman hopes that the tournament will help the Irish regroup after last weekend's disappointing losses to Min­nesota and Marquette. 
"We are going into it with the attitude that if we lose, it's going to be because we gave it our best and were simply beaten by the better team," commented Gelfman. "I don't want to make any projections because the teams are very tough and we're going to have to play the best tennis we are capable of." 


Sizing up the opposition 
Buckeyes next Big 1 0 foe for Notre Dame tennis 
By BOB MITCHELL Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's ten­nis team looks to win its first match against a Big Ten op­ponent this season when it travels to Columbus, Ohio to face Ohio State. 
So far this season, the Irish are 0-2 against Big Ten teams. Michigan and Northwestern have already beaten the Irish this season. Notre Dame will try to snap a seven-year losing streak to the Buckeyes, who finished last season with an impressive 27-10 record. Last year, OSU handed the Irish a decisive 7-2 loss without their No. 1 player. 
"We're not going down there to fill out their schedule," said Irish skipper Bob Bayliss. "We need to return serve well and play good doubles to win. They don't lose many games at home but we do have a fighting chance." 
Ohio State placed seventh in the Big Ten last season and is aiming for the Big Ten cham­
"This year, our goal is to win the Big Ten championship and it is totally within our reach," said Ohio State head coach John Daly, who believes that skill is not the only way to win a match. "One of my sideline goals is to win by intimidation. I want the other guys to have a fear that they can't beat us." 
Indeed, Daly has the right to believe this· method may lead his team to victory over the Irish. The top eight Ohio State players average 6-2, 180 pounds. The typical Irish player averages 6-0, 158 pounds. 
"As a rule, they are big, strong guys," said Bayliss, who recently earned his 300th career win. "They are better indoor and really like to belt the ball. Two guys who scare me are Steve Miguel and Kevin Dibelius." 
Dibelius, a lefthanded junior, played the No. 1 position during the 1987-1988 campaign for Ohio State. The Ohio State Scholar returner of serve. Miguel, who is ranked 48th in the country, possesses the ability to adjust his game quickly to defeat his opponent. 
The Buckeyes' roster in­cludes the Male Junior Player of the Year by Tennis Maga­zine, Ty Tucker. Tucker, a nine time USTA National Junior Title winner, plays in the No. three position for OSU. Accor­ding to Daly, Tucker is every­thing that he is billed to be. 
"Ty is playing very well," said Daly, the llth._most win­ningest active collegiate coach. "His game is right where we want to be." 
For Notre Dame, the OSU matchup will provide another stiff test for the aspiring Irish. Notre Dame, who is behind in the series 12-18, needs this vic­tory to reach the .500 level. However, Ohio State is aware of the improved Irish team and professes they are ready. 
"We are totally cognizant of the fact that they have improved since last year," said Daly of his first dual match competi­tion. "In the past, we didn't have to be ready, but this year we will be." 
Hot-shooting Purdue tops Illinois 76-72 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.-­
Melvin McCants scored 12 of 
his 16 points in the second half 
and Purdue made 61 percent of 
its shots to upset No. 2 Illinois 
76-72 in Big Ten play Thursday 
night. 
The Boilermakers' torrid 
shooting kept them in conten­
tion in a game that was tight 
all the way, with neither team 
leading by more than five 
points. 
Purdue, 10-11 and 3-5, broke 
a four-game slide. It took the 
biggest lead of the second half 
at 69-65 on Ryan Berning's two 
free throws with 2:31 remain­
ing, then held off the Illini. 
Illinois, 18-2 and 5-2, pulled 
within two points twice after 
Berning's free throws. Stephen 
Scheffler, who had 11, made a 
rebound layup to answer the 
first challenge with 1 : 15 left. 
Loren Clyburn's pair of free 
throws put the Boilermakers 
ahead 73-69 with 1 : 15left. After 
Stephen Bardo's 3-pointer with 
32 seconds to go pulled Illinois 
to 73-72, Jones made two free 
throws with 27 seconds left . = 

• 
I KAPLAN STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD.  pionship this season. The Buck­Athlete in 1987 and 1988 posted eyes have a realistic shot at the a 22-16 singles record with his crown since they return seven aggressive style of play and big lettermen and add Ty Tuck­serve. er,one of the top freshmen in Steve Miguel is an excellent the country, to their roster. tactician and outstanding  
LAST YW 7,514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS STOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING.  
·­NO Communication & Theatre Notre Cinematheque  
"A RARE EPIC:' t ;,.,w '•·Ld.' 'Ill~. o\< I\ l TRIRI '\:}­"It is also overw~~~;,r;~~~~.l,~~~n~P~~.~.getically erotic:'  
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. PLEASE RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.  
KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTEQ. 1717 E. SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 219/272-4135  UNBEARABLE LIGHINESS OF BEING A Jo~rs story An O~Oi'f PICTURES Release .;; /'J.'i.\ / 1 ~· \.," l.wm.•! . '"'I''''~ \I N·~·U• J,•, •.,..,,.,f TONIGHT AT THE SNITE 6:00,· 9:00  


-~--··------~-----------~------------------111!!11 


get no closer. "I think the second half was
Slam 

as awesome as we've been all continued from page 20 year, especially in the stretch that might have bothered Notre drive at the end of the game," Dame." Phelps said. 
Tim Singleton gave Notre Jackson and Ellis proved es­Dame a boost at the end of the pecially vital at the line, com­first half with a jumper at the bining for 18 free throws with­buzzer, but it was Fredrick who out a miss. Jackson paced the took charge in the second Irish in rebounding with 12 stanza. boards. 
Fredrick scored the first Baldwin finished with 20 seven points of the second half points to lead the Warriors, to give the Irish a 42-37 advan­while Powell added 17 points.tage. Robinson scored on an of­
The Observer Friday, February 3, 1989 
Jackson let game come to him 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
In a game where maturity and free throws were big fac­tors, Jamere Jackson came through with both in last night's 83-68 victory over Marquette. 
The junior co-captain was a perfect 10-for-10 from the line, icing the victory down the stretch and doing virtually everything that could be asked of him. 
"I'm not a player to force the issue," said Jackson. "I let the game come to me." 
And that type of easy-going, pressure-free athelete is the kind that this young, freshman­filled Irish team needs as a leader. 
Jackson led all scorers in the game with 23 and topped all rebounders with 12. Both of these numbers were also per­sonal highs for Jackson. 
"Jamere tonight, with 12 rebounds and 23 points, and 10­for-10 from the line, you can't ask for more than that," said Head Coach Digger Phelps. 
The game saw Marquette take a first half lead, but Jack­son's roll-up shots and sure free throws helped keep Notre Dame in the game, and the Irish trailed by only two at the half, 37-35. 
Jackson's persistence in the first half was important in maintaining the team's com-
The Observer 



SENIOR · · '' 

~!:CLUB 
Student Manager Applications and Job Descriptions for 1989-90 
Are Now Available. Pick them up in 
the Office of Student Activities 315 La Fortune Application deadline is March 1, 1989 
posure. But after the game, Jackson downplayed his individual role and credited the team. 
"We just knew we had to keep the pressure on," said the 6-2 guard. "We just wanted to keep the press going, and that's what made the difference." 
Free throws were another factor that made a difference, and Jackson's 10 were a key to the success of the Irish. 
As a team, the Irish made 24 free throws (in 29 attempts, the best of the season for the Irish) to Marquette's seven, a 17­point differential that exceeded the 15-point margin of victory. 
"We've  been really  con­ 
centrating  on  making  free  
throws," said  Jackson,  who  

raised his free-throw percentage to 88.4 percent on the year. "We've talked about it a lot lately, and it's all men­tal. If we would have made more at Syracuse, it could have made for a different game down the stretch." 
Jackson's shots and free throws were timely as well as accurate. In the last five minutes of the first half, with Notre Dame trailing 25-17, Jackson's four free throws and two field goals were instrumen­tal in cutting the Warrior lead to two. 
In the second half, Jackson converted all his one-and-one opportunities and extended the 
rnffil]J[p)J ffiDillEffiJJffiffi)J ffiJJog 
Love 

Your Little Sis 
Irish lead, and with 28 seconds left he performed a one-handed slam-dunk on a breakaway that kept the JACC crowd roaring. 
"We just played the kind of game we want to play," said Jackson. "We kept running at them, opening the way for a lot of easy baskets and that's my type of game." Jackson's 12 rebounds, eight 
above  his  season  average,  
should  not  be  understated  
either,  as  the 6-9 tandem of  

LaPhonso Ellis and Keith Rob­inson combined for 10. Eight of Jackson's rebounds came in the second half. 
"We were in a situation where we didn't play well at all in the first half," said Jackson. "We just persisted in the second half and wore them down and buried them in the last two or three minutes, and that's what good teams do." 
Next Jackson and the Irish must turn every bit of attention they have to incoming Duke, which is scheduled to play the Irish on Sunday. Considering Notre Dame has had three games in the last five days, the whole team has to guard against fatigue. 
"I'm in really good shape now," said Jackson. "We've played three games this week, and now we'll try and rest all we can before Duke comes on Sunday. It'll be interesting to see how far this team can go." 


IU ALUMNI >~":I:!:~~'*:.~.W!QJliW~~ 
!CWi 
Friday Feb. 3 10:00 pm 
-starring-Rhythm and Blues Favorites 
rnrum (30~~ [(J~®fu0 
@)({] Gllirn [(]~ ~ tlllf] ®rnC§ 
featuring Vocalist "EZ" ED WRIGHT 
*FRI!JIItftfl;11011 ;1/00;1/-2.·00 
• 
Friday, February 3, 1989 
The Observer 

From training room to captain 
Kuhns rebounds from injury to captain Irish basketball 

By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
Lisa Kuhns has learned to ad­just to new roles. 
She came to Notre Dame with raw talent and a polished jump shot, content to play the part of a rookie adapt­ing to the college game, but eager to take on more respon­sibility. 
Within a year Kuhns proved she was ready for a new role. 
But prior to her sophomore season, a freak accident sidelined Kuhns for the entire year, leaving her with the task of rehabilitating from reconstructive surgery on her knee and the prospect of proving herself a second time. 
This did not discourage Kuhns though, as she left no doubts in the coaches' minds-­or her own--about her ability. After a year of transition, the 5'10 native of Fort Walton Beach1 Fla., has made the transition from training room to team captain. 
"For three years (former Irish captains) Mary (Gavin) and Sandy (Botham) were my role models, the people that led the team," said Kuhns. "But now I'm the one who has to be the leader, and after watching them do it, I have to step up and prove I can be a leader. I think that's made my a better player." 
She leads the team with a .857 free throw percentage and is the team's only consistent threat from three-point range, tallying a trey in 23 consecutive games coming into this season. 
Kuhns has made an impact this season not only with her trademark shooting, but also with her overall play and her enthusiasm for the game. 
"Lisa's got a great attitude and people look up to her,'' said Head Coach Muffett McGraw. "It's not just what she does, but how she does it. She just works hard everyday in practice and speaks her mind when she has to." "She wants to succeed and people tend to rally behind her because they respect her so much." 
-Kuhns considers herself a 
student of the game and prides 
herself is perfecting the basics. 
"In order to be a leader, you have to do things right so that others can follow you," said Kuhns. "I try to listen more carefully because not only do I have to know what I'm doing, but I have to know what everybody else is doing too, so I can make sure that they're in ' the right spots. 
"I try to work on the fun­damentals and take coach's ad­vice. That makes me more re­sponsible and then I know what coach wants out of me and the 

Kuhns has made a career out of doing what is best for the team's game plan. 
Whether it is shooting the game-winning shot against Dayton last year, or using her defensive skills to keep her op­ponents from making an im­pact offensively, Kuhns plays 
unselfishly. 
"My goals are focused around a team goal, the NCAAs," said Kuhns. "I have to shoot 50 percent, I have to be a good rebounder, and I have to be a good defender. 
"But if I do my individual things right and try to be a good leader, that's going to be my contribution to the team and hopefully that will help us get a bid to the tournament." 
Kuhns and the rest of the 
team will be trying to move 
closer to that goal tomorrow, 
as they head east to take on 
Syracuse. 
The Irish won last year over the Orangemen in their first­ever meeting, 81-64, and will try bring home a crucial win. 
"We're concerned about con­
trolling their forwards," said 
McGraw. "Their forwards are 
quicker than their guards, so it 
puts us in an interesting situa­
tion packing it inside against 
them." 
"It's always great to beat a 
Big East team and win outside 

rest of us." . your region 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday Call 239·5303 

The Observer I Suzanne Poch 
' 

thrqugh Observer advertising. for details. Lisa Kuhns has adapted to her role as co-captain. 
Last Day to Sign Up 
~um PADRE I&AND FOQ ~PQJNG BREAK 
* 7 'J\{J(jJfrts -LUX11!f?!YC09\[1JOMI'J\{J11MS * 1(0119\[fJJ PR]P .9!!1( Pf(5'8{$P01(CJ'.9tfJJ09{ 
* 1 Jf0111(!F1('E'E JfO'BI'E CYICJ'SYIILI9\[(j 01(WI!Jfp S'll!R§Ig{(j 
$437 lfiCLOSIVE To sign up call Bob Z83-15Z1 or Student Activities Office 

~ -~-~--~--~-..._..--~--­

--------------------~-----­
The Observer Friday, February 3, 1989 
--18 Swim teams look for revenge 
Irish close out home schedule against Ball State 
Associated Press 
SYRACUSE, N.Y.--Dorsey Levens, a standout football tail­back at Nottingham High School, announced Thursday that he has picked Notre Dame to attend this fall over his second choice, Syracuse Uni­versity. 
"What it really boiled down to was do I want to leave Syracuse and go away, or do I want to stay here?" Levens said at a news conference in his school's auditorium. "I've made my decision. I'm going to attend the University of Notre Dame." 
Levens said that Notre Dame's 1988 national champi­onship did not influence his decision, but that last Thursday's recruiting visit by Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz did. 
"It played a big part," Levens said. "He impressed me with the way he stressed academics." 
National letter-of-intent sig­ning day for football recruits is next Wednesday, when Levens is expected to make his choice official. 
Levens, at 6-foot-2, 205 pounds, was a first-team Parade All-America. He rushed for 1,062 yards this past season and averaged 8.1 yards a carry. 
Of the top 100 high school football players listed by Tom Lemming, a recruiting expert from Chicago, Notre Dame has received verbal commitments from nine players and is still in the running for three more. 
The nine who have said they 
would sign with Notre Dame 
are as follows: 
QB Jake Kelchner, 6-3, 200, Berwick, Pa. 
QB Rick Mirer, 6-3, 205, Goshen, Ind. 
RB Dorsey Levens, 6-2, 202, Syracuse, N.Y. 
WR William Pollard, 6-5, 210, Ft. Knox, Ky. 
TE lrv Smith, 6-4, 225, Camden, N.J. 
OL Chet Lacheta, 6-3, 262, Chicago Heights, 
Ill. 
DL Junior Bryant, 6-5, 270, Omaha, Neb. 
DL Stuart Tyner, 6-4, 258, Tomball, Tex. 
LB Randy Scianna, 6-2, 230, Homewood, Ill. 
Linebacker Darren Krein of Aurora-Smoky Hill, Co., also lists Arizona State as a possible choice, and linebacker Brian Ratigan also lists Nebraska and Iowa State. Defensive back John Davis of Pahokee, Fla. is looking at Florida State in ad­dition to Notre Dame . 

.. 
This Spring Break, 
go Greyhound~ 
instead. 
For just $49.50 each way, you and your friends can afford to pile on Greyhound. Whether it's the beach, the slopes or your hometown, going Greyhound won't cramp your style. 
~9f!Q 
each way based on round-trip purchase. 
iUIGOGREYHOUND

!!IAidleave the driving to us: 4671 Terminal Drive •287-6541 
Must present valid college I.D. card upon purchase. No other discounts apply. Tickets are nontransferable and good only fort ravel on Greyhound and other paructpatmg earners. Offer hmned. Greyh~und ~lso offers low Money Saver fares. Some restrictions apply. Spring Break fare available 2/l/89through 4/30/89 and ts subject to change wnhout nouce. © 1989 Greyhound Lines, Inc. 
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 
There promises to be great excitement this weekend as the men's and women's swim teams host their final home meet of the season against rival Ball State Saturday. 
The Irish men's team (6-3) will be looking for revenge against the Cardinals at 4 p.m. after last year's narrow loss at Ball State. The defeat was es­pecially painful for Notre Dame. 
"We had just come off a big win against St. Bonaventure, 

" 
Tailback 
chooses 
Notre Dame 

and they sort of stunned us," said junior Bill Jackoboice. "They were ready for us." 
Both teams will field basi­cally the same lineups as last year, and the top times for each team in eight of the individual events make the winners too close to call. The diving and relay events may end up being the deciding factors in the meet. 
Ball State's men's team has at least two outstanding swim­mers in Holland native Winand Willigers and Eric Rauschei. Willigers has the Cardinals' top times in six _events, and Raus­chei is best at the butterfly events. 
"It's like playing USC for the last game of the year," said Irish sophomore Paul Godfrey of the meet. "You don't want to lose to them." 
The Irish women's team will also face a tough challenge at 1 p.m. Saturday. The swim­mers have never beaten Ball State in five meetings, includ­ing a 12-point loss last year. 
"It's a competitive meet each year," said Welsh. "They are a very good team, and they are swimming well right now." 
In last year's meet, the Car­dinals demolished the Irish in key events. The Irish have im­proved in some areas, but it maybe not enough to take away Ball State's advantage. Notre Dame will need to swim a great meet and hope for a break somewhere along the way, which Welsh is confident that the women will get. 
"We know that we'll have to swim fast," said freshman Katie Pamenter. "But we're prepared and we're going to show them that we're ready for this Meet." 

~ 
The Observer I Mike Moran 
The diving events could be the determining events In Notre Dame's dual meet with Ball State Saturday. 

--::--~--.---~~------------~---~~---­
0 1980 Chronicle Features Distributed by Universal Preas Syndicate 


"Aha!" 
1 ! I 
Friday, February 3, 1989 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
2 p.m. "Hepatitis A: Determination of Antigenic Sites," by Dr. Jack Stapleton, University of Iowa Medical Center, Room 146 Galvin Life Science Center. 
SATURDAY 
12:15-1 p.m. CSC Friday Forum: "Bigotry and Honesty in the American Experience," by Ronald Dorris, of the Notre Dame American studies department, Center for Social Con­cerns Room 124. 
SUNDAY 
7-8:30 p.m. Catholic Faith Series: "Church--Shaping _ the Future Church," by Sister Regina Coli, Keenan Chapel. 
8 p.m. Slide lecture: "Black Churches Involved in the Civil Rights Movement," by Carlton Wilkinson, Vanderbilt Uni­versity, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
CAMPUS 
7:3o-8 a.m. Open meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House. 8 a.m. Women's tennis, Eck Doubles Classic, Eck Pavilion. 6-10 p.m. Mexican Dinner at the Center for Social Concerns. 
6 & 9 p.m. Notre Dame Communication and Theatre film, "The Unbearable Lightness of Being," AnnenbergAuditorium. 
7:30 
p.m. Notre Dame hockey vs. MichiganDearborn, Ice Arena. 8 a.m.-3 p.m. Graduate Record Examination, Engineering Auditorium. 9-10 a.m. First Saturday Holy Hour of Reparation to the Im­maculate Heart of Mary. Sacred Heart Crypt. 11 a.m.-4 p.m. Notre Dame track, Meyo Invitational, Loftus Sports Center. 1 p.m. Notre Dame women's swimming vs. Ball State Uni­versity, Rolfs Aquatic Center. 4 p.m. Notre Dame men's swimming vs. Ball State University, Rolfs Aquatic Center. 

7:30 
p.m. International Student Organization Music Festival, Washington Hall. Feb. 5, 4 p.m. Notre Dame men's basketball vs. Duke, Joyce 


ACC. 
8 p.m. Sophomore Literary Festival Lecture by author T. Coraghessan Boyle, Library Auditorium. 

COMICS 
Jerks 
.SUODENLY  f'OVER T Y­ THE  JOB AGErJCI  WAS  
STfi-ICI<EN,  OUR  ll[ROC:S  HELP  /\T  11Lt ...  
SEEK  WORK  IN SOUTH BEND.  
0.1<.  BOV5,  
START  
SHOVEL! N' f  


STUDENT UNION BOARD Presents.!.· 
Friday 
WILLOW 

All Shows 8 and 1 0 pm 
..AVfl CIV 111€ ~ t£ll(£1{ ~CF L.!Fe', I $HOf/t/? 1.15T 
1H~II5'~-m 
OF1H!5 5/rr/f/TTOI'I... 
\ 

Bob Mclaughlin & Kevin McKay 
~~~~~~~~~ 
The Observer page 19 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 

-:+:,:+.:+.-t:-1 21 Birthplace of Columbus 
22 Frank Gilroy's subject 
Berke Breathed 
49 Chutzpah? (malapropism) 57 This may be tossed 58 Tel-­59 Writer Wiesel 60 Malice 61 Embassy spy 62 Carpenter's tool 63 Gave a glowing review 
64 Washstand adjunct 65 Bellow 
DOWN 
1 Wonderstruck 2 Like a certain Susan 3 Abruzzi bell 

town 4 Upright 5 Monte Carlo • 
attraction 6 Lustrous black 25 French painter 32 Metric quart 48 Meadow
7 Lummox 

Fernand-crossing
8 Fishhook bait 34 "Darling, Je 
26Up-Vous-49 U.N member 
9 Comes clean 

(cornered) Beau coup" 50 Calif. wine valley 10 Capri has a blue 
27 Unit of heat 51 Year in
one 11 She gets what 
she wants 12 State, in Tours 13 Descartes 

ACROSS 
1 Word of woe 5 Local Com­munist group 9 Lascivious eyer 14 It equals one joule per second 15 Hunt's Ben 
Adhem 16 Composed 17 Pound or Stone 18 Vinegary 19 The man without 
a country 20 Leaving no will behind? 
(malapropism) 23 Gainsay 24 Not at home 25 Barrio resident 
28 Kitchen garbage dump 33 Of a race: Comb. form 34 Poilu's weapon 35Dernier­36 Choir offering? (malapropism) 40 Forever, poetically 41 Andy's partner 42 Eagle's penthouse suite 43 Jogged the memory 46 London dry-. goods dealer . 47 "Why-Love You?" 48 Garden starter 
28 Dickens's dramatized Edwin 
29 Hawaiian baking pits 
30 Steep slope 
31 Palmer, to his "army" 
The Far Side 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
37 Spokes Macbeth's reign 
38 Gave a hoot 52 Arrived 39 Tiaras, crowns 
53 Swear solemnly 

and halos 54 Ray of "God's 
44 Form a thought 
Little Acre" 45 Indicated assent 55 Actress-singer Minnelli
46 Kipling's ill-fated Danny 56 Salacious look 
Gary Larson 


---~----~----~------------~-­
---------~~------·---. 
Sports

page 20 Friday, February 3, 1989 
Irish sputter, then Ga. Tech outlasts
slam Warriors 83-68 
By GREG GUFFEY 29 foul shots, much improved Duke 81-76 from the 8-of-20 showing in a
Sports Writer Associated Press 
99-87 loss to Syracuse two For over 38 minutes weeks ago. ATLANTA-Dennis Scott 
"That's the first time we've
Thursday night, Notre Dame picked the right spot to stretch 
struggled against a pesky Mar­gone to the foul line and put it 
his string of consecutive games quette team. Then, the Irish in when it counted," Phelps with a 3-point basket to 38, hel­turned it into just another day said. "We've been working on ping lift Georgia Tech to an 81­that the past month and it's fi­
at the gym. 76 Atlantic Coast Conference While improving to 12-3 with nally paying off now." victory over No. 12 Duke 
a 83-68 victory over the War­Jamere Jackson led the Irish Thursday night. riors, the Irish made a state­with 23 points and Fredrick "He showed me he could do ment with four tremendous added 20 points, all in the 
a lot of things besides hit the slam dunks in the last 1: 16-a second half. Freshman LaP­3-pointer," Tech coach Bobby statement that this team can honso Ellis tossed in 17 points Cremins said of Scott, who
• 
erupt without advance warn­and Keith Robinson added 10. scored nine of his 20 points in 
The game may have ended
ing. the final 2: 40 and filled in in the "It was just like being at the at the playground, but it was middle when Tom Hammonds anything but fun in the first
Rock," said Notre Dame co­sat out just over seven minutes captain Joe Fredrick, who half. of the second half with four capped the dunkfest. "It was The Warriors streaked to an fouls. 
just fun. Everyone made sure eight-point lead at 25-17 with The Yellow Jackets, 13-6 
5:59 to play in the half, thanks 
everyone else got a dunk." overall and 3-2 in the ACC, were 
The dunks capped off an im­largely to the play of forwards 
leading 68-66 when Scott took pressive stretch run for the Trevor Powell and Tyrone control, getting his flurryBaldwin. The duo combined for 
Irish, who improved to 12-3 toward the finish on six free with the win. The young squad 22 points in the first half. throws and his only 3-point bas­
matured in the closing The Irish rallied late in the 
ket in eight attempts. minutes, outscoring Marquette half, outscoring the Warriors Duke, losing for the fourth 18-12 in the last 5:04 to cut the
144 in the last 3:26. time in five games, fell to 14-4 
"I thought it was interesting margin to 37-35 at the half. In and 4-4 despite a 27-point effort 
in the last three minutes how that first half, the Warriors out­by Danny Ferry. we didn't fold, but exploded, as rebounded Notre Dame 15-14 "I really thought we were tired as these kids are," Irish and forced nine Irish turn­going to lose it," Cremins said. 
coach Digger Phelps said. "I overs. "We had a five-point lead, a guess that's a sign of maturity. "Our game plan was to keep seven-point lead. We were With three games in five days their bodies off the back­playing our guts out, but I justand no seniors, that was very board,'' Marquette caoch Bob couldn't get over we were turn­
interesting to see how we Dukiet said. "In the first half, ing the ball over." responded." we hung in for awhile. We 
Coach Mike Krzyzewski had Notre Dame has also gained played a sagging defense and 
no trouble pinpointing Duke's maturity in clutch free-throw problems: the Blue Devils see SLAM, page 16
shooting. The Irish sank 24-of-made only 10 of 21 free throws. 


WEEKEND SPORTS INSIDE 
Swim teams close out home season ...................... page 18 
Women's tennis hosts Eck Doubles Classic •••••• page 15 
Hockey hosts Michigan Dear­born .••••••.••••••.•.••••••••• page 14 
A beginner's guide to fencing page 14 

Fencers host first (and last) home meet 
By CHRIS FILLIO while the Belles will face a few this team as a national cham­Breqda Leiser handily Sports Writer selected teams. pionship contender," said defeated moderate competition Sunday the Irish will battle DeCicco. "The big test this in a meet held in Chicago. Ad­
The Notre Dame and Saint Wayne State in a storied Mid­weekend will be how well the ditional help from Tara Kelly Mary's fencing teams will keep west rivalry. women do against Wayne could give the women enough the show on campus this Despite only one weekend of State. I'm anxious to see how depth to power by opponents in weekend as they host their only previous competition, head co­it will turn out." their second meet of the home meets of the year on Sat­ach Michael DeCicco believes Last year, the women's team season. urday and Sunday. that his squads are ready for finished second behind Wayne The men's team will once 
Saturday's action at the almost anything the opposition State in a very closely con­again provide a strong field in Joyce ACC will pit the Irish has to offer. tested fight for the national all three weapons, with an ex­against Midwest teams from "If the great fencing of the championship. cellent menagerie of experi­Cleveland State, Eastern Mic­young freshmen and sop­Two weeks ago, the foursome enced veterans and talented higan, Oakland University, Tri homores holds up, then they of Janice Hynes, Kristin State, Detroit, and Michigan, could make me a believer of Kralicek, Heidi Piper, and see FENCING, page 14 
Recent Irish enthusiasm is music to the ears 
Under NCAA rules, the band will not be allowed to pZay during the course of the basketball game. 
A chorus of 'boos' greeted those words when they were announced during the second half of Notre Dame's 64-60 victory over Temple last Sunday. But it did not take long for Irish fans to come up with a much more creative response: 
The "Hey" cheer. You know, that cheer only a few people ever stand up for unless the game is on the line. 
Last Sunday, everyone was standing. And sing­ing. 
"Da-DAAA-da...HEY...da-da-da, Da-DAAA­da...HEY...da-da-da, Da-DAAA­da...HEY...da-da-da...We're gonna beat the heck (or other variation) outta you!" 
My confidence in the Notre Dame student body was restored. 
The same students who sit down all too often and have been known to leave the bleachers empty for weeknight games against some pretty decent teams were all on their feet--singing. 
Of course, Irish fans were not showing off a com­pletely new talent. 
They hinted at this singing ability earlier in the year at the Fiesta Bowl, by taunting West Virginia quarterback Major Harris with chants of his name, and ridiculing thousands of Mountaineer faithful by mocking one of their favorite songs, "Country Roads," as soon as the game was in Notre Dame's control. 

"Country roads, take you home, to the place, you belong, West Virginia..." You get the picture. It was a heartstopping rendition. 

Marty Strasen 
Sports Editor 
Later that night, a West Virginia reporter said she thought the behavior of the Notre Dame fans was tasteless and "uncalled for." 
Let's call for it again Sunday, when the Duke Blue Devils visit the Irish in the Joyce ACC for what promises to be an exciting basketball game. 
Duke fans have a lot to be proud of--a heralded basketball history and a strong academic reputa­tion. Notre Dame is no slouch on those counts, either. 
The Duke fans also have received their share of notoriety, much like Irish fans of years gone by. Duke fans are crazy, and have earned the prime seats for Blue Devil home games. Irish fans have 
been called "the sixth man" by NBC announcer AI McGuire and "the best college basketball crowd" by CBS analyst Billy Packer. Packer rates the Duke fans right behind Notre Dame's. 
Let's prove Packer right Sunday. Let's make Duke second to Notre Dame on the scoreboard and in the stands. 
Even if we are a little off key. 
Here they are--the 10 finalists in the Daimon Sweet nickname contest. Let us know which one you like, and the winner will be announced in this same spot next Friday. 
In no particular order : 
1. 
Daimon "Honeymoon" Sweet. 

2. 
Daimon "Oh, Sweet Child o' Mine" 

3. 
Daimon "Presidential" Sweet 

4. 
Daimon "We Got the Beat" Sweet 

5. 
Daimon "Air" Sweet 

6. 
Daimon "The Sultan of" Sweet 

7. 
Daimon "Nutcracker" Sweet 

8. 
Daimon "Ain't She" Sweet 

9. 
Daimon "Sweei: Georgia Brown" and 

10. 
Just plain, "Sweet" 








