

Spring Break -1
jACCENT: Common Sense? 
Cloudy today with a chance 
of snow, high around 30. 
Cloudy Friday with a chance 
of rain or snow, high around

J VIEWPOINT: Objection to Honor Code 40. 
VOL. XXII, NO. 98 
the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s 

Breslin and Kinkopf win run-off election 
Frigon wins in District 1 run-off 
By JEFF SWANSON The BreslinKinkopf ticket Staff Reporter won with 2,225 votes (69.38 per­cent) while the Rask-Smith 
Matt Breslin and Dave ticket recieved 982 votes (30.62 Kinkopf defeated Tom Rask percent.) and Melissa Smith in the stu­"The experience issue was dent body president run-off blown out of proportion," Rask election Wednesday. said. "We had real experience. 
"I'm ecstatic to win convinc­If you look at the debates, we ingly. It shows that there's a should have won," he said. lot of support for this adminis­"We couldn't give our side of tration," said Breslin. "We feel the story because it is against that we will be able to go to the Observer policy to print letters (University) Administration to the editor or Viewpoints con­stronger," he said. cerning candidates. Once they 
<The Observer) make an en­dorsement people should be al­

ELECTION 
lowed to respond to it," he said. 

RESULTS 
Regarding The Observer's Student Body 
policy not to print responses to its endorsement, Breslin saidPresident/VIce President ''I respect the policy of The Ob­2225 votes server if they feel that it is fair." 

70 .---­
60 
In the District One Student

50 
Senate runoff Chris Frigon

40 
received 464 votes (57.28 per­30 982 votes 
r--­

cent) to defeat Scott Murray's 20 
346 votes (42.72 percent). 10 
"Since it was a run-off, I thought turn-out would be im­

0% 
portant. Keenan turned out to Smith Klnkopf 
Raskl Breslin/ 

be a key dorm," Frigon said. "I want to commend Scott Senate District 1 
<Murray) and Jim (Nelis). They did a great job organizing their races. I don't want to take anything away from them," said Frigon. 
Breslin said that he wished to continue programs of stu­dentgovernrnentandtoexpand student services. "We are looking foward to a smooth transition and to get a quick 


Observer Graphic start on things," he said. 
Two computers stolen from O'Shaughnessy 
By SARAH VOIGT "One of the stolen disks Staff Reporter holds 40 megabytes of infor­mation while the other five 
Two Macintosh SE com­hold up to 20 megabytes. puters, six hard disks and Each 40 megabyte disk holds miscellaneous items were up to' the equivalent of 50 stolen from eight College of floppy disks of informa­Arts and Letters offices in tion," Skurski said. O'Shaughnessy Hall this According to a member of past weekend. the philosophy department, 
According to the police the data on some of the report, the burglary oc­stolen disks cannot be curred sometime between 4 retrieved because no back 
p.m. on Saturday, Feb. 25, up disks exist. and 4 p.m. Sunday, Feb. 26. Almost every office on the 
"Forced entry was used to third floor of O'Shaughnessy enter the offices. We have was burglarized. collected all the evidence Five Macintosh com­and the case is currently un­puters valued at $15,000 der investigation," said were stolen from the com­Phillip Johnson, assistant puter lab on the second floor director of security. O'Shaughnessy on Feb. 2. 
According to Roger Skurski said, "The Uni­Skurski, associate dean of versity is currently embark­the college of arts and let­ing on a $17 million projectters, the six stolen disks con­to expand the computer net­tained vast amounts of infor­
see THEFT, page 4 mation. 


Dave Kinkopf, left and Matt Breslin are the newly elected Student Body Vice President and President, and Melissa Smith in a runoff election on Wednesday. 

ND senior files suit against University over dismissal 
Associated Press 
against the woman, a student room and the campus by 5 p.m. 
SOUTH BEND-A Notre at Saint Mary's College, alleg­Friday, court documents show. Dame senior and former foot­ing slander. ball player has gone to court to St. Joseph Circuit Court ''Our only comment is that fight his dismissal from the uni­Judge Terry Crone denied we, in fact, believe we versity after a woman alleged Quinn's request Friday for a breached no contract," said he attempted to rape her, ac­preliminary injunction to block Notre Dame Assistant General cording to court documents. his dismissal. Council Carol Kaesebier. Uni­
Daniel Quinn, 21, of En­Patrick Doran, the univer­versity Director of Public Re­cinitas, Calif., has sued Notre sity's assistant director of lations and Information Rich-Dame for breach of contract. residence life, had ordered He filed a second suit Tuesday Quinn to leave his dormitory see QUINN, page 5 
Charges filed against Brooks; no charges filed against Stonebreaker as of Wed. 
Associated Press wiped. Brooks was dri':ing on campus. _Notre Dame Direct?r 
a suspended Oklahoma hcense, of Security Rex Rakow said 
SOUTH BEND-Notre Dame said Lt. Larry Bloom. city police found Brooks clean-tailback Tony Brooks was Brooks has not been avail-ing out the car when they ar­charged Wednesday with two able for comment. rived to investigate. Brooks ad-misdemeanor criminal viola­Police had requested a cer-mitted to being involved in an tions in connection with a hit­tified copy of Brooks' driving accident, Rakow said. and-run accident last weekend, record from Oklahoma and A teammate, Michael according to court records. referred questions about the Stone breaker, remained in 
suspension to the prosecutor's good condition Wednesday at 
Charges of driving with a office, where no one was avail-Memorial Hospital of South suspended license and leaving able for comment. Bend, where he has been hospi­the scene of an accident were Bloom said the accident re-talized five days following a filed by St. Joseph County Pros­suiting in charges against see BROOKS, page 4 
ecutor Michael Barnes in the Brooks occurred shortly after 
Misdemeanor and Traffic Divi­3 a.m. on a city street when a sion of Superior Court. car driven by Kevin Coleman, 
LAST

Both violations are Class A 39, of South Bend, was struck misdemeanors and carry max­as a car traveling ahead of him 

ISSUE

imum penalties of one year in attempted a U-turn. The auto jail and a $5,000 fine upon con­struck Coleman's car on the 
This 'is the last regular issue 

viction. No date has been set right side, causing at least 
of The Observer before Spring

for a court appearance. $1,000 damage, and fled the 
reak. The Observer will re­
Brooks, 19, of Tulsa, Okla., scene, he said. 
sume publication on Tuesday,

has remained free since city Police matched a description 
Mar. 14. The Observer wishes 

police cited him Sunday, of the car given by Coleman 
. every one a fun and safe

several hours after a car driven with a damaged car discovered . Spring B~ak.
by a South Bend man was sides-by Notre Dame security on the 
page 2 The Observer Thursday, March 2, 1989 
IN BRIEF 
Two Hoosierswere among 19 people awarded the Carnegie Medal for Heroism at ceremonies in Pittsburgh Wednesday. Karl Schreiner, 75, of Indianapolis rescued a 6-year-old boy from an attack by two pit bull terriers, while Randolph Macyauski, 30, of Greensburg saved a 6-year-old girl from drowning. Schreiner stepped in to help stop the attack in Indianapolis on Oct. 3, 1988. Macyauski saved the girl when her car was swept from a bridge and carried downstream in rain-swollen Salt Creek in Oldenburg, Ind., on Aug. 19, 1988. Grants totaling $47,500 were given to Wednesday's awardees and the widow of a man who died in his rescue attempt. -Associated Press 
David Letterman invited the entire population of 
Bolan, Iowa--six Bolanites and 10 from the "suburbs" to 
visit New York City. Letterman, prompted by a staffer 
intrigued by Bolan, paid for the Iowans to come to New 
York for three days and appear on his show, "Late 
Night with David Letterman." "We wave at everybody. 
They give each other the bird," said Daryl McCready, 
comparing motorists in Bolan and Manhattan. 
McCready said he and his neighbors are enjoying the 
trip even though they know some people are poking fun 
at them. But he added, "When we see the mess and 
utter confusion of New York City, I wouldn't sell my 88 
acres for 88 acres in Manhattan, unless I could sell it 
and move back to peace and quiet." -Associated Press 
Gunnison, Colo has been named the nation's coldest community for the fourth straight year, while Palm Springs, Calif., moved up to capture honors as the warmest in 1988. Gunnison recorded the nation's lowest temperature 93 times last year. Palm Springs was the warmest community on 43 days. Overall the nation's average temperature last year, calculated by averaging the highs and lows, was 53 degrees Fahrenheit--the same as the year before and 1 degree colder than in 1986. -Associated Press 

OF INTEREST 
Graduate Students are invited to the second workshop in the Grad Student Life series today at 7 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. Robert Gordon, vice president for advanced studies, will speak on "Some Reflections on the Academic Life." -The Observer 
Are humans instinctively selfish is the topic of a seminar discussion with Father Michael Himes on Sunday, March 19 at 7 p.m. in the Pasquerilla East Chapel Lounge. Participants must pick up a ticket in the theology Depar­tment, Room 327 O'Shaughnessy Hall. -The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Editor-in-chief bids farewell to The Observer 
"One generation passes away and another generation cometh but the earth abideth ... all the rivers run into the sea; yet the sea is not full; unto the place from whence the rivers come, thither they return again." 
-Ecclesiastes 
It's difficult, I suppose, for anyone to say goodbye to an organization that he or she has been closely associated with for four years. 
It's especially difficult when you realize that organization and its people are going to con­tinue on without you. It can lead one to think that he or she hasn't made a difference. 
I have enjoyed leading The Observer for the past year in what I see as a positive direction. Though things have been difficult at times, our staff has worked diligently to put out a quality newspaper for our community. Without the work of over 175 student employees, most of whom are paid miserably, The Observer would not be circulated everyday. 
And now that my job is done, I can honestly say that it is a miracle that there is a newspaper everyday with the possibility of things going wrong all the time. The people who don't take this for granted are the ones who appreciate The Observer the most. 
As a staff member, I feel lucky to have been a part of The Observer this year. A wide range of newsworthy events has made it the most in­teresting in recent years at Notre Dame. Some of these events were theN ational Championship football season, the Hiler/Ward Congressional debate brought by student government, and the George Bush visit and the ensuing controversy. 
Recently, however, some events take away from the fun of putting out a newspaper. The deaths of Bob Satterfield, Richard Macrina and Pat McManus are a grim reminder that we have a duty to report the news that we don't want to read. 
Regarding the future of The Observer, it's important to remember that we are the voice of the community. The Observer is the most visible link between students, faculty, adminis­trators, family and the community at large. This link is as important as any in the Notre Dame "family." 
If The Observer is the link in the community, 
however, then it has a responsibility to serve 
the interests of all members of that community. 
Because The Observer serves as the voice of 

Chris Murphy 
Editor-in-Chief BYE 

the community, that voice is important. The Observer's new general board must realize the importance of that voice and the responsibility it carries. 
The Observer needs more student, faculty and administrative input. In an academic year that has been labelled the "Year of Cultural Diversity," this University needs diverse input on all issues pertaining to our academic, social and cultural lives. The Observer should be the forum for these thoughts. 
At the same time, our community needs a challenge. The Observer can only serve a lim­ited function in creating an intellectual forum for diverse thought. The community at this Uni­versity is uncommonly silent; the community can blame only itself for this silence. 
Mter a year at the top, I've learned to realize that The Observer, much like our community, is not perfect and probably never will be. 
But striving to serve the community's inter­ests is the ultimate goal of any newspaper. And I'm pleased with the way we've served our com­munity this year. 

Applications for Student Business Board General Manager 1989-90 are available at the secretary's desk on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. Completed applications are due back by 5 p.m. Friday, March 3. -The Observer 
C.O.O.L. Campus Outreach Opportunity League, a non-profit organization which promotes and supports stu­dent involvement in community service and action, will hold its annual three-day conference at Fordham Uni­versity in New York from March 9-12. The benefit concert on March 11 will feature "10,000 Maniacs." Anyone in­terested in attending may contact Patrick Creadon at 289-1233. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service announcements may be submitted at The Observer main office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest announces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lecture Circuit announces on-campus and local lectur­ers. Campus announces other events of ge~eral inte~est, free or paid. The Observer reserves the rtght to edtt all submitted materials and determine if and where an­nouncements will be published. -The Observer 


................................................................11 Observer classifieds will be accepted from
Happy Birthday 

Today_ is Laura S.'s birthday. Call her up 9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices 314 
and wosh her a happy one. By the way 1 
Laura,we do expect to see you dancing LaFortune11 on pool tables tonoght. • 

8 WAYS TO RUIN SPRING BREAK 
Get so trashed know ~h You don't 
...,.. ere yo
whot You' d _u are or 
re omg. 
Give the pick-pocket o break-keep your wallet in your back pocket. 
Talre lots era, . . of cash 
rt,, and 
olo119 • Your Po lr 
card Wtth You c et-
s. r credit 
Be 9ener hotel 1c ous. Sho ID . hey, Your c ,.. Your "''' llew 1. • or, Your
"'•nds. 

TAKE ABITE OUT OF ~~·-~· Tn;s message l•om 
!.......C:...S', . 1he NoltQnal Cnme Prevention Council 
• 1 • : mode possible by o generoos 
.~ l_,_x~ 

goano l<am MasleoCa<d lnoeonohonal 



Deaign Editor ................... Lisa Tugman Viewpoint Layout ................... Moir~ Fox 
Deaign Aaaiatant . . . .. . . .. . . . ... . Kathy Gliwa Accent Copy Editor.. Michelle Bermnger Typesetter• ........ Bernard Brennikmeyer Accent Deaigner ................. Alison Cocks ........................................... Andy Schlidt Newa Editor ..................... Kelley Tuthill ~~~~.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·j)ia:~a~:::;:;Copy Editor ....................... John O'Brien ND Day Editor ..... Margaret McClos.key Sparta Copy Editor.......... Scott Brutocao SMC Day Editor .......... Rozel Gatma1tan Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... Kim Skiles Photographer ....................... Pat Cusack 
De 01111nw (USPS 599 2-4000) is publisbed Monday throuah Friday acept duriDa aamiiDd vacatioa periods. ne Ollllnw is publisbed by tbc students of tbc Ullivenicy of Notte Dame IIDd Saint Mary's CoiJeac. Sublcriptioaa may be purcbM­ed for S40 per year ($25 per saDCStcr) by writiq ne Ollllnw, P .0. Box Q, Notre o..e. lllllialla ~~. 
ne Ollllnw ila -ber of ne A111da... ...__ AU rcproductioa riahts are
,......_ 



r11111111~ 
Crimestoppers 288-STOP 
Thursday, March 2, 1989 
The Observer 

President Bush and Defense Secretary-designate John Tower confer before a Cabinet meeting at the 
•

New riots break out 1n Venezuela 
Associated Press changed gunfire with snipers "consolidation of democracy." 
and drove mobs away from His spokesman said people 
CARACAS, Venezuela-New stores. Other witnesses said a must realize the rich years of riots broke out in the western woman had been killed by the oil boom are over. slums Wednesday despite mar­police early Wednesday in the The president also an­tial law imposed because of two town of Catia as she tried to nounced an agreement be­days of disturbances, and at loot a store. tween industry and labor for an least one person was reported Radio reporters said delin­immediate wage increase that killed. quents tried to break into would raise the pay of thost: 
Venezuelans jammed the few homes in Guarenas, 30 miles earning the minimum wage by remaining food stores, guarded west of Caracas, while more than 50 percent. by soldiers, to stock up after homeowners were defending Downtown Caracas was two days of riots and looting themselves with guns. calm Wednesday. Most banks over price increases in which President Carlos Andres remained closed and those that more than 100 people have been Peres declared martial law opened let customers in one at reported killed and 800 injured. late Tuesday, saying the a time. Office workers 
Witnesses in outlying areas "incredible tragedy" of the vio­returned to work and some of Caracas said police ex-lence threatened Venezuela's buses began to operate. 
page 3 

Tower publicly admits extramarital affair 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-John Tower made an extraordinary public admission of marital infidelity 'Yed~esday but vowed to keep f1ghtmg for Senate confirma­tion as defense secretary. 
President Bush continued to court Democrats in a last-ditch effort to save the appointment, and spokesman Marlin Fitzwater asserted, "We'll just keep up the good fight." 
But Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell further damp­ened Tower's chances by declaring his opposition, even as Vice President Dan Quayle conceded the administration still lacks the votes needed for Senate approval. 
The president said his appeal to senators has been, "Look, do what you've got to do, but re­member fair play, remember decency and honor, and then remember also historically the concept of advise and consent where reasonable doubt is given historically to the presi­dent of the United States who after all is responsible for the executive branch of this gov­ernment." 
Tower said he regards his weekend vow to quit drinking if he wins confirmation as "sacred ... and I can assure you I will abide by it." 
Asked whether he had ever broken his wedding, vows, the twice-divorced Tower said, "As a matter of fact, I have broken wedding vows. I think I am probably not alone in that connection." 

Tower's second wife, Lilla Burt Cummings, alleged "marital misconduct" in court papers in the couple's divorce case. 
Bush dispatched Quayle to Capitol Hill to lobby for the nomination. 
"We hope the prospects im­prove. We don't have 50 votes yet. But we're moving in that direction," Quayle told a White House photo session. 
Tower showed flashes of grit and humor as he fielded ques­tions at the National Press Club about allegations concerning excessive drinking, womaniz­ing and lucrative consulting fees he received from defense contractors. 
Asked whether he would ask that his name be withdrawn, he replied by quoting from the last letter written by Col. William Barrett Travis, the leader of the Texans who fought and died at the Alamo: "I shall never surrender or retreat." 
The former Texas senator paused briefly and said, "I am a little sorry I brought up the Alamo analogy. It just oc­curred to me what happened at the Alamo just 10 days after Travis wrote that letter." Texas defenders were wiped out by the Mexicans. 
The political storm surround­ing the nomination continued. 
Republicans were trying to decide whether to seek a delay in the beginning of the debate on the nomination, which has drawn widespread opposition from Democrats. 


To all those interested in running for next year's 

CLASS OFFICER ELECTIONS 
The Ombudsman Society will hold a mandatory meeting on Thursday, March 2, 
TONIGHT! 

at 7:30 in the LaFortune Montgomery Theatre 


page 4 

SECURITY BEAT 
TIIU., FEB. 23 
4:25pm A Notre Dame employee 
reported that two lockers were 
broken into in the women's locker 
room in South Dining Hall 
sometime around 4:25 pm.No 
property was taken but damage to 
lockers is estimated at $100. 
FRI., FEB. 24 
1:35 am An Elkhart resident was issued a citation by Notre Dame Security on Juniper road for traveling 44 m.p.h in a 25 m.p.h zone. 
4:27 am A Morrissey Hall resident reported the theft of his jacket and its contents from the cloak room in Alumni-Senior club sometime around 1:30 am on 2/23. Estimated value of stolen property, $185. 
SAT., FEB. 25 
11:45 pm A resident of South Bend was issued a citation by Notre Dame Security for traveling 54 
m.p.h in a 30 m.p.h zone on Edison Road. 
SUN., FEB. 26 
3:10 am A Notre Dame Student was issued a citation by Notre Dame Security for traveling 30 
m.p.h in a 25 m.p.h zone on Juniper road. 
11:56 am A Notre Dame employee reported an attempted break-in at the computer lab in Hayes-Healy sometime between 11:25 pm, 2/25 and 11:56 am, 2/26. A window was broken out and pry marks were observed on door, nothing appeared to be missing. Damage estimates unknown. 
4:06 pm A Notre Dame employee reported a burglary from the Dept. of Modern and Classical Languages in O'Shaughnessy 


sometime between 8 pm, 2/25 and 
4:06 pm, 2/26. Missing were two Hyperdrives for Macintosh computer valued at $625 each. Upon further investigation it was found that several other rooms in O'Shaughnessy had evidence of attempted break-in, it is unknown if anything was taken from these rooms at this time. 
7:30 pm A Flanner Hall resident reported the theft of his parking decal from his vehicle while parked in the D-2 Lot sometime between 5 pm , 2/24 and 3 pm, 2/26. 
3 pm A resident of Sorin Hall was reported by Notre Dame Security for entering campus by vehicle under false pretense on 2/25. 
6:25 A Notre Dame student was issued a citation by Notre Dame Security for driving recklessly in the A-15 faculty parking lot. 
1 am A Keenan Hall resident reported an attempted robbery of himself and a friend on St. Louis street by 3 unknown male blacks in a large, blue four door vehicle. 
MON., FEB. 27 
8:20 am A Notre Dame employee reported a larceny from the Main Office in Ave Maria Press sometime after 4 pm, 2/24. Thefts from the desks of several employees were reported with total losses esti­mated at $33. 
9:50 am Notre Dame Security investigated the break-in and larceny of several rooms in Hayes­Healy which occurred sometime between 2/24 and 2/26. 
9 pm A resident of Lyons Hall re­ported the theft of her bookbag and contents from the book rack in the lobby of South Dining Hall sometime around 12 pm. Losses estimated at $60. 

The Observer 
3:15pm A Stanford Hall resident reported the theft of a UPS package that had been delivered to the dorm at 1:30 on 2/21. Value of stolen property estimated at $60. 
11:30 pm A Lyons Hall resident reported the theft of her wallet from her backpack while left unattendedbetween 8 and 8:05 pm in the Audio Learning center at the Hesburgh Library. Losses esti­mated at $28. 
TUE., FEB. 28 
2:03 pm A student from Morrissey Hall reported that some large card­board signs made-up for Junior­Parents weekend were missing or stolen since from the JACC sometime after 2/19. Approximate value of signs is $500. 
5:20 pm Notre Dame Security issued a citation to an Indiana resident on Douglas road for traveling 53 m.p.h in a posted 30 
m.p.h zone. 

CRIME OF THE WEEK 
The Crime of the Week is the theft of computer equipment from O'Shaughnessy Hall. Se­curity reports that sometime between 1 a.m. and Feb. 2, 1989 unknown person or persons entered the computer lab on the second floor of O'Shaughnessy Hall and stole five Macintosh SE computers valued at $15,000. If you have any information about this or any crime at Notre Dame, call Crime Stoppers at 288-STOP. You don't have to give your name. 
Thursday, March 2, 1989 

Brooks 
continued from page 1 
traffic accident early Satur­day. 
Barnes began investigating Stonebreaker's case after tests showed the 22-year-old linebacker had a blood-alcohol level of .157 percent immedi­ately after the accident. A pas-

Theft 
continued from page 1 

declined comment on either in­cident. 
Notre Dame Sports Informa­tion Director John Heisler said Holtz would not take any action in the matters until after the courts and Office of Student M­fairs have acted. 
Join The Observer 
work on campus. I am a mem­

is currently accepting applications for the 
ber of the task force for this 

following manager positions: 
computer plan. We discussed electronic security such as protection against computer 


Accounts Payable 
viruses, but we never talked about physical robbery of mac­


Accounts Receivable 
hines." 
Since the burglary, however, Johnson said that there has been increased patrols around 

Send resumes by March 14 to:
campus and a heightened awareness about crime. 

Controller Michelle Soper For more information call 239-5303.

IThe Observerj 

HolyCrossFathers Vocation Counseling 
Howdolknow if I have a vocation to the priesthood? 
Wat is the academic aftd formation program for becoming a priest? 
Wat scholarships and financial aid are available for seminary training? 
II 

For a personal, confidential interview with no obligation, please write or call the vocation director. 

AP Photo
Isn't she lovely 

Miss Texas, Gretchen Polhemus reacts as she is named Miss USA Tuesday night in Mobile, Alabama. 

••
•
•
•
•
•
• 

senger in his car, Ursula M. Garzia, 20, of Foxsboro, Mass., was hospitalized in serious con­dition with internal injuries. Her condition has since been upgraded to gr 'ld. 
Stonebreaker, 22, of River Ridge, La., has not been ar­rested or charged. 
Football coach Lou Holtz returned to campus Wednes­day from New York but 


•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 


Indiana University 
at 


Kokomo 
couldn't get in the fall or •
•
spnng. 
•
•
•
•
Entirely possible: 
• 
Indiana Un1vers1ty at Kokomo •
•
offers summer courses in 20 
•
different areas with tile • advantages of Big Ten lcaming •
•
in a small class environment. 
• 
low pressure and •
•
lllliiVIduallzed attent1011 or; 
• 
P1ck up a reg;strat1on form •
•
and summer scl1edule when 
• 
you re 11ome on Spring Break. 
• 
or give us a call and we'll mail •
•
them to your campus or horne 
• 
address. •
•
•
SUMMER SESSION I 
• 
May 8-June 22 •
•
SUMMER SESSION II 
•
June 26-August I 0 
•
•
•
Indiana University ,at Kokomo 
•
2300 South Washington 

• 
Kokomo. Indiana 46904 •
•
•
(317) 453-2000 •
•
•
•
•
•
• 
What are the various 
apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? 
Howdolpray if I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood arlld I'm not sure? 
Rev. John Conley, CSC Rev. Paul Doyle, CSC P.O. Box 541 Notre Dame, Ind. 46556·0541 
For appointment, call between 8:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. 
2"19 239-6385 
-~--~---­

pages

Thursday, March 2, 1989 The Observer 



Observer announces new General Board members 
Eric Bailey, a freshman has served as assistant sys­By MARK MCLAUGHLIN 
Senior Staff Reporter from Crystal Lake, Ill., has tems manager. 
been named photo editor. Michelle Soper, a junior from The Observer has announced Bailey is currently a staff Midland, Mich., has been 
named controller. Soper is cur­
the members of its General photographer. 
rently accounts payable
Board for the 1988-89 publishing Molly Killen has been named year. advertising manager. Killen, a manager. Matt Gallagher, a junior junior from Toledo, Ohio, Angela Bellanca, a junior from Oak Brook, Ill., has been served this year as advertising 
from Harbor City, Calif., has design manager. been named operations direc­named executive news editor. 
tor of Observer Typesetting.
He is currently serving as as­Shannon Roach, a freshman 
sistant news editor. from Cedar Rapids, Iowa, has Bellanca is currently accounts Dave Bruner, a junior from been named advertising design receiveable manager. 
No Saint Mary's editor has
Scottsdale, Ariz., will continue manager. She is currently an 
been named yet, and applica­
with his duties as Viewpoint ad designer. editor. Alison Cocks has been named 
tions are still open for that po­
Theresa Kelly, a junior from production manager. Cocks, a sition. Rochester, Ill., has been sophomore from Wentworth, These members will join named sports editor. She is cur­Surrey, United Kingdom, is editor-in-chief elect Chris Don­
rently serving as assistant currently assistant production nelly, future managing editor Regis Coccia, and business
sports editor. manager. 
manager Rich Iannelli to make 
John Blasi has been named Mark Derwent, a junior from up the 1988-89 General Board.
as Accent editor. Blasi, a junior South Bend, has been named The new board will begin itsfrom Palatine, Ill., is currently 
duties after spring break. 
an assistant Accent editor. systems manager. Derwent 
LAST YEAR 7,514 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS SlOPPED DRINKING AND DRIVING. 

~ 
, 'f .4 

I\ , 

Richard M. Daley, Cook County state's attorney, waves to the crowd
~·f •' ,I,;· ~! 
, ~ r. . _.~ ) , 
gathered at the Fairmont Hotel during a victory celebration Tuesday night 
I ~. ·~ ··~-,. £t~­
\\ / ,.,._: .~ /,
...... ~ -""'" -. . a '/ I ,, ... -\.: \ :. // 
in Chicago. Daley defeated Mayor Eugene Sawyer in the Democratic
~~'..;j~---~ 
DOti'TDIMIMMIK,OJnK:WmtA•'fOIIfWff080U 
mayoral primary. 


Quinn 
continued from page 1 
ard Conklin said Quinn has left campus. 
Quinn was recruited by former head coach Gerry Faust and was a reserve out­side linebacker for the 1985 and 1986 seasons, according to the documents and Notre Dame football guides. 
Notre Dame Sports Informa­tion Director John Heisler said Quinn was suspended from the 
team by Head Coach Lou Holtz in the spring of 1987 for undis­closed reasons. 
Quinn did not return to the team but remained on athletic scholarship in the 1987-88 aca­demic year, Heisler said. He saw no playing time his fresh­man year under Faust and played in five games under Holtz in 1986, making four tackles, according to the foot­ball guides. 


Heisler said Quinn was suspended from the university last spring for an undisclosed reason and was not permitted to return last fall. Quinn was permitted to re-enroll in Janu­ary but was not on athletic scholarship, he said. 
In his suit against the female student, Quinn alleged the wo­man made untrue, slanderous claims when she told officials he attempted to have sex against her will, and that he beat her and confined her, court documents show. The suit says Quinn met the student at a social gathering Feb. 3 on the Notre Dame campus. 
No criminal charges have

Press herefor a great 
been filed. 
In the suit against Notre Dame, Quinn alleged breach of contract in that the university






data processing career. 
failed to allow him to complete his degree after signing him to an athletic scholarship. He 
The right time.The right place. Blue Chip. Green light. State data processing equipment. You'll 
State Farm is hiring. Farm is one of America's leading go as far and as fast as you can. 
asks the court to order Notre
If you're a senior with a data insurance companies. Through You couldn't have a more solid 
Dame to permit him to return
processing, computer science or innovative marketing anda proud base to build a career on. 
and finish school. 
math background, there may be service tradition it has become Contact your Placement 
Quinn has asked for compen­
a very special career opportunity the nation's leading auto and Director. Our recruiter will 
satory and punitive damages in 
waiting for you in one of the homeowner's insurer, and one of be on campus March 14 & 15 
both lawsuits, claiming in each 
largest corporate data proces~­the top life insurance companies 
that he has suffered emotional 
Or write Ron Prewitt, Assistant ing facilities in the country. in the country. 
distress. He claims the Notre
Director, Home Office PersonnelThere are actuarial and audit­You'll receive expert training. 
Dame action will cause him
Relations, One State Farm Plaza, 
economic injury by denying
ing jobs open, too. You'll work on state-of-the-art Bloomington, Illinois 61701. 
him a degree and forcing him
STATE FARM INSURANCE COMPANIES. Home Offices: Bloomington. Illinois. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
to return to California. 


Viewpoint 
Thursday, March 2, 1989
page 6 

Honor Code has no place at NO 
Status of world needs attention 

Dear Editor: 
Time magazine declared 1988 the year of Planet Earth. In doing so they recognized the growing importance of environmental concerns in terms of so­cial, economic and political considera­tions. Almost daily we are bombarded with new revelations about humanity's destruction of the environment. To name some current events: CFC's and ozone depletion, greenhouse effect, massive deforestation of the Amazon, chemical dumping in the Mississippi, and polluted tap water in Granger In­diana (to bring it nearer to Notre Dame). 
There is a tendency, given the enor­mity of the problems, to shake your head, concluding that it is all out of your control, and after all you have an exam tomorrow. However, these issues aren't likely to go away and sooner or later we will be forced to address them. At the very least we will have to pay higher costs in garbage disposal, higher taxes for toxic waste cleanup, and greater medicaltinsurance costs as a greater portion of the populace requires medical care because of man-made en­vironmental effects. In addition, there will most likely be enormous costs in human terms as people are adversely affected by pollutants and harmful en­vironmental policies. 
Last week, an article in The Observer concerning recycling program at Rut­gers University spelled out the need for a recycling program at Notre Dame. As a member of the recently formed Notre Dame Environmental Action Club I believe that an in-depth explo­ration of the recycling issue at Notre Dame with all concerned is a step in the right direction. In the coming weeks we will be researching what types of recycling at Notre Dame could be ap­propriate and thus, we will be actively seeking input from students, staff, and faculty. But beyond the recycling policy 
(which is only one pertinent issue), we hope to address a wide range of envi­ronmental issues and concerns through sponsoring discussions, speakers, and educational information. Please come out for the meetings of the Notre Dame Environmental Action Club every Tuesday at 9 p.m. in the Center for So­cial Concerns. 
James Dailey Dillon Hall Feb. 28, 1989 


NO students need global awareness 
Dear Editor: 
On Feb. 28 I wrote a Viewpoint article concerning the topic of globalization and the need for cultural and intellec­tual diversity within the college of Busi­ness Administration. The purpose of that article was to bring awareness to the student body and the faculty on an issue that is ever-present in the world today. Globalization pervades every aspect of our lives, whether it be making a major investment decision, buying an automobile, or simply going to the corner store--and we, as future leaders, must be educated and well­informed to make responsible decisions in a global world. Notre Dame, as the premier academic and ethical institu­tion in the country, has the capacity to step to the forefront and be a leader in the global movement. 
The first step in this movement will be realized on Wednesday, March 15 with the First Annual Student Globalization Forum. This forum has the blessing of the University, and while the College of Business Adminis­tration is the focus of this forum, we hope to bring together students from all colleges within the University to in­tegrate our different ideas and experi-· ences. 

This forum is unique in that we the students will be the principle speakers and will provide our perspectives on globalization. Father Hesburgh will also be speaking and relating his per­sonal experiences as they pertain to globalization. 
The purpose of the forum is to seek an understanding of the global eco­nomy; to define the theme of confi­dence in America, which is needed to sustain global prosperity; to address the issues of education, politics, ethics, and military strength in the global eco­nomy; and to provide insight into the role Notre Dame should play in 
globalization. 
We, as students of the University, are 
anxious for Notre Dame to provide 
leadership in the area of global educa­
tion. With the help of the student body, 
we hope to make our aspirations known 
to the administration and faculty and 
to propel Notre Dame to its rightful po­
sition at the head of America's aca­
demic institutions. 
Scott Esposito 
Flanner Hall 
Feb. 28, 1989 

Doonesbury 

OH, I ALM05T 

TOPAY 5He CA/..LEJ) Me "MAMA"! 15/IJ'T THATIIJIL07 
51113 CAUW 7Hl3 BABY-SITTeR '"IIAnAIAfJ•t 
_,---"V/ , ___-­
Garry Trudeau 


Al.WAY5 A IAJEI.L, I MOM&NT&V8RY 71-{0lEI-/T50, MOTHEJR. 7l?&A5-50IVIJJW­
Uf?ES, ZONK. TAPWIT. 


Quote of the Day 
'It we had no winter, the spring would not be as pleasant.' 
-Anne Bradstreet 
About 20 years ago, the first honor code at Notre Dame was abolished be­cause of its unpopularity among the stu­dents who refused to report cheaters. The people who dissolved that code said that students must be willing to accept and support the non-tolerance policy for the Honor Code to succeed. It is an in­disputable fact that the vast majority of the students here will not report an­other student for cheating on an exam or an assignment. Unfortunately, the administration views this loyalty as a shortcoming. 



Jason Carroll 
guest column 
"Squealers" destroy the unity of the "Notre Dame family." The Honor code would be more in place in schools with cut-throat competition, like at Stanford or an ivy league school, where people reportedly steal notes from their class­mates to lower the curve. The admin­istration said it was influenced by other prestigious schools with honor codes, but we are different; we are ND. The University's greatest strength, the camaraderie of everyone in the com­munity, is disturbed by this Honor Code. 
The administration contradicts itself by saying that non tolerance is neces 


~~~--------~P-.0-.-BoxQ 
sary to the Honor Code, and realizes that the students will not report each other, yet implements the code anyway. By approving a rule which is merely disregarded by most of the stu­dents, the administration sets a nega­tive precedent. The students learn dis­respect for a distant, deaf group of oppressors. Students begin to feel that the administration does not care for anything but the precious University image. The Honor Code is, therefore, actually detrimental to the formation of the students' attitudes toward the ad­ministration. This imminent violation of the Code also demonstrates to stu­dents an unethical philosophy: break the law when it is convenient. Although widespread disobedience, per se, is not reason enough to eliminate a rule, it should be considered in the decision to establish and enforce the law. 
Another of the Honor Code's negative effects is that it is a burden on the honest, while the dishonest are unaf­fected. A conscientious student will face an undeserved dilemma if he wit­nesses an act in violation of the Code. One option is to report his fellow stu­dent. The result would be guilt for bar­ming a neighbor, as well as likely ostracism, regardless of promises for anonymity. These predicaments are magnified if the offender is a close friend. The innocent observer could also remain silent, but his silence would 
be an offense in itself, which would create even more guilt. The virtuous student is, therefore, placed in a no-win situation. 
Contrarily the dishonest student's burdens are removed. The obvious re­luctance of other students to "narc," combined with the unproctored (at least officially) exams, presents new opportunities to cheat. This student would not care if he were breaking an­other rule. But both the administration and the student body realize that the Honor Code does not reduce cheating; the point here is simply that only the blameless suffer. 
But still some of you might not be convinced. Those few believers argue that the administration must have their reasons to support an Honor Code that destroys unity, fosters disrespect, does not reduce cheating, and harms honest students. The official goal of the Honor Code is "to increase the students' pride, integrity and involvement in their own education." No survey is needed to see that the Honor code does not fulfill that purpose. The authors, unfortunately, disregarded their worthwhile motives as being mere rhetoric, and opted for the image-boosting mandate which is currently in effect. 
It is sad that the University had to waste resources on a trial period, when the Honor Code's inevitable conclusion could have been discovered had the ad­ministration simply consulted the stu­dents or the faculty. Instead we have a code which is mocked as it dies out. 
The only saving grace of this Honor Code is that it is fading away. I asked six sophomores about their 200-level courses which are all supposedly under the policies of the Honor Code. Only in five of their collective 30 classes did the teacher even mention the Honor Code, and two of those were votes, in which, it was voted down. The other 25 classes were exactly as before the Honor Code was instituted. Four of the six students said that they have yet to sign any sort of a pledge this semester but they have all turned in at least five tests or papers. A student reported that one of his teachers said, "I don't care if there is an Honor Code. I'm going to proctor this exam anyway." It is obvious from this limited, unofficial survey, that the teachers here, like the students, have no respect for this code. 

With this multitude of significant, in­surmountable shortcomings, it should be clear to all, including the adminis­tration, that the Honor Code does not belong here at Notre Dame. 
Jason Carroll is a sophomore in the Col­lege of Engineering 


Viewpoint
Thursday, March 2, 1989 page 7 
P.O. Box Q 
Champ clears up boxing motives 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing in response to Michael Schadek's article regarding the Notre Dame Bengal Bouts (The Observer, Feb. 28). Mr. Schadek stated that the motive of the boxers was to "beat the hell out of each other" and "leave the competition lying on the floor, preferably bleeding." I have been af­filiated with the boxing club for four years and therefore feel more qualified to comment on the motives of the boxing club members' participation in the Bengal Bouts. 
The judging of the Bouts is based on a scoring system; whoever scores the most points wins the match. I always take offense when someone says that we are trying to "beat the hell out of each other,'' especially when it is some­one who knows nothing about our pro­gram. Mr. Schadek knows nothing about the camaraderie we all share in the boxing club. We all train together and are great friends. He makes grand statements about our motives and about our program, yet he has never once seen the Bengal Bouts. He says all that is required to enter the ring is a little ignorance. To me ignorance is condemning something you know noth­ing about. Mr. Schadek says that men must fight to prove their self-worth. What a distorted view of self-worth this statement demonstrates! We do not need to fight to prove our self-worth 
just as someone else should not need to 
write to prove his self-worth. 
Mr. Schadek states that "there are 
countless non-violent events which 
could raise as much if not more money 
than a boxing event." Why then does 
he not take his time to organize them 
instead of condemning us? It is very 
easy to come up with grand ideas, but 
it is not so easy to carry them through. 
The Bouts raise about $20,000 an­nually for starving people. If Mr. Schadek came to the Bengal Bouts he would see that we do not "beat the hell out of each other." The referees are all professionals and would not let anyone get hurt. 
There is so much more to our pro­gram than just what people see during that one week out of the year. I do not expect Mr. Schadek to understand that, because he has made no effort to see the true meaning behind the Bengal Bouts. It is easy to view them this way if you have never taken the time to see them from the inside, or from any side for that matter. 
Michael C. Noone Keenan Hall March 1, 1989 


Support of Contras promotes brutality 
Dear Editor: 
Some failed policies long outlive their usefulness and just refuse to die. Kevin Smant's exhortation for renewed sup­port for the Contras is a case in point and deserves a more balanced, less hysterical reply than his treatment of this issue offered. 
There is good reason to be concerned for the repression and human rights vi­olations perpetrated by the Sandinis­tas, and I am glad that Mr. Smant is concerned for prisoners of conscience in Nicaragua. However, it should be noted that while the Sandinistas im­prison dissenters and censor the press, the military of El Salvador which has received enthusiastic U.S. support deals with dissenters in a different way: it has gunned down tens of thousands of its own citizens who were not guerrillas, but human rights workers, priests and nuns, or those in­volved in grassroots development. Despite the best efforts of U.S. policy there, the activities of right wing death squads are on the rise. If we cannot assume a peaceful posture towards the Sandinistas, why should we be so tolerant of their neighbors? Is there a double standard whereby mistreat­ment of people by communist govern­ments is intolerable, while the same atrocities when committed by friendly governments are to be overlooked? 

While being concerned with stupidities of the Sandinistas is legitimate, posing the Contras as a vi­able solution to our security concerns in Central America is uncreative, short­sighted, and counter-productive. The Contras can never accomplish the moral and strategically questionable goals U.S. policy makers want them to. They cannot hold territory, and they certainly have not given the Sandinis­tas any reason to ease their grip on Nicaraguan society. In fact the Sandi­nistas use the existence of the Contras to justify curtailing civil liberties. 

I also wonder if there is equal concern by Mr. Smant for the victims of the Contras. These mercenaries, who are more of a U.S. creation than an in­digenous force responding to injustice, seem to be capable of vicious attacks on civilians and villages. Is the con­scious policy of assassination of medi­cal workers, teachers, and grassroots leaders, as well as the demise of our own standards of respect for human life the price we Americans must pay to secure ourselves from our own hysteri­cal fear of communism? If these 'freedom fighters' are the "moral equivalent of our founding fathers," then I must be inadequately acquainted with the biographies of Washington, Jef­ferson, and Adams in light of the brutal behavior of the contras. 
Perhaps the most dismaying aspect of Mr. Smant's column is his 'win' men­tality. He puts forward several dubious propositions that we are engaged in relentless competition with com­munism. We must play out this contest until there is a winner, preferably the 
U.S. His assumption is that if we don't act with equal force, the world will be dominated by the U.S.S.R. It is difficult to refute rationally this fear tactic in such a short space, largely because it is based on a conjecture of what might happen, not what is likely to happen. Unfortunately, this sort of irrationality gets translated into policies where people are tortured or pay for our fear either with their own blood or the lives of their loved ones in the mountains of Central America. 
Richard Conroy Off-campus Feb. 28, 1989 


Honor code survey found misleading 
Dear Editor: 
The article on the honor code survey (The Observer, Feb. 22, 1989), and the remarks of Associate Provost Father Oliver Williams missed some pretty glaring facts. The article reports that 800 surveys were sent out to students, yet only 148 were returned. Of these, 57 students voiced their approval of the honor code. The way I figure it, that means slightly more than seven per­cent of those polled want to continue the code. 
I disagree with Father Williams that these numbers are "positive." Granted, not every student survey needs to be returned to gauge student opinion, but there was only a 16.4 per­cent return on this survey. An honor code, in my opinion, needs more interest-good, bad, or indifferent-to work. The benefits of an honor code are worth considering only if there is widespread student support, and the survey does not demonstrate that such support is there. 
Further, an honor code should be for students, and as such should be run and supervised by students, not imposed in any way. Father Williams' remarks about the statistic that more underclas­smen are in favor of the code because more "education" was directed their way is, in this respect, particularly gal­ling. 
Finally, I regret that, as Father Wil­liams says, the faculty view the honor code as a "tool" for moral education. It is not a way to educate, it is a way of education. The distinction is a fine one, but until that distinction is realized the honor code will never work. 
Terry Lynch 
Sorin Hall 
Feb. 22, 1989 


Spreading faith is a task for all 
Dear Editor: 
I feel compelled to respond to the "Letters to a Lonely God" article by Father Robert Griffin (The Observer, Feb. 24), in which he criticizes the evan­gelistic efforts of Christian groups, spe­cifically denouncing the group known as Jews for Jesus. While I have no af­filiation with this group and I don't speak for them, I resent the misleading way in which Griffin uses them as an example to negatively portray evan­gelical Christians. 
First, in his article Griffin never ex­plains to his readers what this group of people called Jews for Jesus really is, instead he dismisses them as "zealots (who) try to brainwash scarcely grown children with propaganda full of distor­tions and lies." He suggests that they try to tear Jews away from their rich history, culture, and tradition. This could not be more incorrect. Jews for Jesus was started by and is comprised of, as the name suggests, people who were born and raised in the Jewish faith and have since come to know Jesus Christ. They are Christians, because they have accepted Jesus as the Son of God and as their Savior. They are also Jews, because they maintain their devo­tion to their Jewish tradition and heri­tage. If that seems a strange combina­tion, one need only consider the twelve apostles, who were Jews from birth, yet also devoted Christians. It is no wonder then, and no clever disguise, that mem­bers of Jews for Jesus are seen "sport­ing yarmulkes and displaying the Star of David." Like any other Jew, this is what they wear. 

There is a difference between proselytizing and evangelizing, but Griffin likes to use the two interchan­gably. Proselytizing implies coercion and brainwashing; the removal of the inaividual's free choice to decide what to believe. This is what Griffin actually tries to discuss in his article. The har­assment of a person to try to force him to accept a particular set of views is worthy of denunciation. He is justified in condemning this activity. 

Griffin goes further in what he says, however. In reference again to Jews for Jesus he says, " ...they begin hyping the Gospel as though they would be doing the child a favor if they could persuade him to beome a Christian ..." I was amazed to hear this from a Chr­istian clergyman. Being Christian myself, I would think that bringing the GospelOiterally"Good News") of Jesus Christ to someone who has never heard it is a favor indeed. 
The importance to a Christian of knowing and accepting Jesus cannot be overestimated, since "He who has the Son has life; he who has not the Son of God has not life" (1 John 5: 12). Doesn't that give a sense of importance to the task of spreading the Gospel to those who don't know it? According to the Christian faith, a person's very life and soul depend upon salvation through the Son of God. A person cannot be forced to become a Christian. It is up to the individual to decide whether to accept or reject the Gospel but they should at least be exposed to it so they have a choice. Griffin says that "the conver­sion (of a Jewish child to Christianity) would break the hearts of the members of the family." Perhaps so. Does that mean that Christians should just shut up and keep their religion to them­selves? Perhaps instead the family will also come to know Christ. It has hap­pened before. It has to start some­where. 
Bruce T. Lotz Off-campus Feb. 25, 1989 


Morrissey fi Ims start tradition 
Dear Editor: 
We wish to acknowledge and thank the many students who participated in and supported last week's Morrissey Film Festival. Eleven halls contributed films and a standing-room-only crowd attended the event--with all proceeds going to the Hogar Santa Cruz in San­tiago, Chile. Thanks are especially due to Tom King, Leo Tighe and the entire committee who organized and ran the event. Great start to a new tradition. 
Jeff Applewhite Tom Veltz Morrissey Hall Feb. 28, 1989 



-~e-Obse.-~~r-­
--=-l.-=ll ----~~·=-....., --­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un•vers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College. h does not necessanly reflect the polic1es of the adm1n~strat1on of e1ther 1nst1tution. The news IS reported as accurately and ObJectively as possible Uns1gned editonals represent the opin~on of the maJority of the Editorial Board Commentanes. leners and the Inside Column present the v1ews of the11 authors. Column S!Jace IS available to all members of the community and the free expression of varymg 
Editorial Board 
Edrtor-in-Chrel . . . . Chris Murphy Managing Editor ...... Chns Donnelly News Editor Regis Coccia News Editor Mark Mclaughlin Viewpoint EditOJ ....... Dave Bruner Sports Editor.·. . . Marty Strasen Accent Editor .. . ... Beth Healy Saint Mary's Editor ....... Sandy Cerirnele Photo Editor Michael Moran 

Operations Board 
Business Manager John Oxnder Advertising Desrgn Manager Molly Killflfl Advertising Manager Lmda Goldschrrfdl Production Manager.. . . Bernadene Shifts Systems Manager Mark Ridgeway Controller... Todd Hardiman Graphic Arts Manager... Marga Bruns 

op1n1ons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 
.----------------------------~-------~ ---------~--­







Accent 

Thursday, March 2, 1989 

Power of Wonderstuff 
KEVIN WALSH energy of The Jam. Most of accent writer the band's material comes from railing against the 
I saw Wonderstuff in Lon­materialism of our day. In don a year and a half ago. "It's Yer Money I'm Mter, The group killed Big Country, Baby," the members sing who was opening, but I "Forget your hearV It's your couldn't find any records by bank I want to break." The it. first single off the album is 
So I was pretty interested "Give Give Give Me More when I found one of its U.S. More More." releases. It's called The Eight Legged Groove Machine, and The CD gives you four ex­it proves that Wonderstuff is tra tracks, including the soon­one of the best bands to come to-be-classic, "Astley In The out of England since The Noose," which calls for Rick Smiths. Those wanting proof Astley's death. The shining of Wonderstuff's angry power "Rue The Day" is the suc­pop stance need to look no cessful slow song that just further than the song titles-­adds to the anger of the rest "No For The 13th Time," of the album. "Unbearable," and "Poison." The evidence on Eight 
The sound suggests an un­Legged Groove Machine holy marriage of the melody seems to point to Wonderstuff and vocals of Let's Active as the first great British band 
with the guitar attack and of the 90s. J\eep an eye on it. The success of British Wonderstuff Is spreading with the help of Eight Legged Groove Machine. 

Columnist looks at Common Sense 
A
s The Observer staff once peace, instead of setting wandering through the was­reasons why men elect to lord A beloved professor again undergoes the myself as a target for the teland in search of the Holy it over women, instead of emeritus of theology wrote a changing of the guard, I want fastest guns in the Midwest; Grail, and not finding it. befriending them. Perhaps letter to Common Sense, and to thank Beth Healy, the fea­but maybe this is the year I "How can you say that?" he the answer to this great his­a priest in graduate studies tures editor, and all the other should start living dangerous­raged. "Compared to Com­torical teaser is simply an wrote an article: both features editors who preceded ly. Last night, Ken, a senior mon Sense, The Observer, awful, original jealousy. promoting gay liberation. In her, for their kindness to me living down the hall from me The Scholastic, and the Notre Womb envy, a male class­my early years with The Ob­as a columnist. in Stanford, brought me the Dame Magazine are trash." mate called it..." server, I wrote a number of 
I used to have many latest edition of Common That kid knows The Observer articles promoting gay libera­dreams of achieving great­Sense, Notre Dame's indepen­is my lifeline to survival, but You wonder why tion. Eventually I found out ness; but now that I'm older, dent weekly, which, to my he doesn't mind breaking an editors put stuff in that the "homophobes" aren't old priest's heart. the gay persons enemy, be­I said: "Would you be will­magazines that cause "homophobes" can't Father Robert Griffin ing to send an issue of Com­lead them into self­
belongs in toilets? 
mon Sense, labelled as ND's destruction, but older gays finest publication, to the do, and have.
Letters to a Lonely God 
faculties of the law school to Couldn't we also ask why Dr. Storey is one of Notre 
which you are applying? men also lord it over other Dame's all-time great teach­my dreams have dwindled regret, I don't often see, Would you really want to men weaker than them­ers; during the 70s, he was down to a precious few. The though I always enjoy finding send it home to your mot­selves? The answer, prob­practically the father­one dream I have that keeps out where the bodies are her?" ably, is that males belong to confessor of the anti-war me awake at night no longer buried. God bless the lad! He could a rotten, bullying gender. movement. In his current seems like an impossible "Isn't it wonderful?" Ken have said that he wouldn't Sometimes, attempting to ac­ministry to gays, I wonder if dream: I would like to sur­kept chortling. "Isn't it bril­want to mail "Letters To A comodate themselves to their he's helping students by con­vive for at least one more liant? Isn't it the best Lonely God" around the women-folk, they castrate tinuously repeating argu­year as an Observer colum­publication produced on this country, either. He was too themselves psychologiclly, to ments that many hard-shelled nist; for if I can reach that campus?" kind to do that, though I'm pay for the sins of their sex. gays don't believe them­happy plateau, I will I finally told him: "Con­sure he thought of it. Neutering is an effective way selves. I think the world of celebrate my 20th anniver­sidering the great talent of I said: "H.L. Mencken was of slowing down machoismo Bill Storey. At one time, when sary of writing for the the writers who appear regu­once asked: 'If you find so that's gone out of control, but we were close, I loved, campus newspaper. Maybe larly, Common Sense is prob­much that is unworthy of rev­I doubt that neutering has respected, and trusted him then I can start setting my ably the most immature erence in America, then why ever brought peace to the more than I did some of the sights on a 25th anniversary, publication in sight. I can do you live here?' Mencken's home. priests who were my lifelong if my editors don't retire me accept, if you want me to, the reply was: 'Why do men go to As you can see, I have no friends. From the sadness I before then, after presenting major premise on which the zoos?' Is that why some of trouble in accepting her feel when I read his pieces in me with a gold watch and a paper is based: namely that our resident cynics stay here: opinions, but is this exchange Common Sense, I know that I pension. Notre Dame is a priest-ridden because they are entertained of dreary ideas all I really care deeply about him still. 
I've always been dependent institution which propagates by Notre Dame as a Catholic want to say to the delightful Doesn't he know he may be 
on the kindness of strangers; all the typically Catholic han­zoo?" Ann Pettifer? Are the com­hurting gays more than he's some of them were editors-in­gups in a hypocritical way. In the February issue of plaints in her column all she helping them? chiefs whom I rarely saw. But why should brilliant Common Sense, an alumnus wants to say to me? Doesn't I'm greateful for their people turn themselves into of the University who is also she know that constantly Many years ago, a Holy tolerance, whoever they are; J ohnny-and-Joanie-One-Note, a faculty wife tells us: "The giving hell to the males Cross priest named McNally but I'm especially grateful to telling us so, month after dirty little secret which men species, for their share in the said: "Griffin, it's barely pos­features editors like Beth, month?" and women hide from them­original sin of womb envy, sible that you're a charis­
who often, by their editing, Ken is a burgeoning intel­selves is that men as a will never lead them to a matic figure, but there's not a helped me put my best foot lectual whom I admire and species have never liked wo­thousand points of light, or to doubt in the world that you're forward. respect for his grade-point men or much wished them a gentler, kinder America? also a big pain the in a--." 
Wanting to survive, I would average; but sometimes he well... Feminists have written An ad on page eight of Notre Dame is a precious probably be wise to keep the reminds me Of the fisher-king reams trying to uncover the Common Sense asks: "Have jewel in the diadem of Catho­




Calvin and Hobbes 
I'h. B:lXES Tel Go, t>.ND l'll 1-lt>.vt E.~OJG\ •PI<!):)f OF 
PllROI~ SE~ls· "ll::l CRDE.R TilE ml'Ell.ER. &AAI~ 1\\t~ 

you read Christopher lic education; but it is also a 
Hitchens on Defenerate sacred cow that can get on
Bill Watterson 
Defenders? Were you chal­Catholic nerves. Assailing its 
lenged? Outraged? Inter­pieties in print may make the 
ested?" Actually, I was only Ann Pettifers much more 
depressed, like Holden likely to talk to us about their 
Caufield finding the four­negativities. Maybe the Ann 
letter words on walls where Pettifers could put their 
I 
l children could see them. The space in Common Sense to I children will survive the better use. obscenities. You wonder what Believe it or not, it took happens to graffiti artists who courage for me to write all 
I 
i leave messages in toilets. You this. I may need quite a lot of wonder why editors put stuff grace under pressure to sur­in magazines that belong in vive the trouble I've caused toilets. myself. 

Thursday, March 2, 1989 
The Observer page 9 
SPORTS BRIEFS Johnson's agent speaks out 
The NO Men's Volleyball Club hosts Calvin College in a Northern Conference match Friday at 7:30p.m. at the Joyce ACC Pit. The Irish host national varsity power Ohio State Saturday at 8 p.m. Admission for both games is free. -The Observer 
The NO-SMC Equestrian Club's Kerry Sheedy and Margie Guido qualified for regional competitions. Any members interested in showing against Northwestern should call Theresa at x2808. -The Observer 
Cross-country ski equipment can be rented this Thursday through spring break for $10 per set. Skis are available in the Rockne Memorial Pro Shop from 4:30p.m. to 5:30p.m. Skis must be returned Monday, March 13 be­tween 4:30p.m. and 5:30p.m. -The Observer 
The NO Men's Volleyball Club will traveltoCalifornia for games over Spring Break. The Irish face nationally­ranked San Diego State Monday at 8 p.m. at United States International University in the San Diego area. Notre Dame plays at Cal State San Bernadino Tuesday at 7:30p.m. On Thursday, the Irish play at Chapman College in Los Angeles at 8 p.m. -The Observer 
In college basketball on Wednesday, Cincinnati upset Louisville 77-71, Clemson shocked Duke 79-74, Florida beat LSU 104-95, Georgia Tech stung North Carolina 76-74, Kansas State nipped Missouri 76-75, Oklahoma slipped past Oklahoma State 111-108, Indiana held back Ohio State 73-66. 
-Associated Press 
Associated Press 
TORONTO--Ben Johnson's track coach testified Wednes­day that he turned the Canadian sprinter on to steroids in 1981 because they were "worth a meter" in com­petition and everyone else was doing it. 
Charlie Francis told a Canadian inquiry into drugs and sports that he first ap­proached Johnson that summer about steroids, but he "was not sure of the advantages." That fall, Francis said, Johnson "decided he would go on." 
"If he wanted to compete, it's pretty clear that steroids are worth a meter at the highest level of sports," Francis said. 
"I think he understood that his competitors were on them." 
Johnson, who lost his Olym­pic 100-meter gold medal and world record after testing pos­itive for steroids in Seoul, has maintained that he never knowingly used drugs to en­hance his performance. Francis' only previous state­ment since the Olympics was that the sprinter's urine test may have been sabotaged. 
Francis said after he put Johnson on a steroid program in 1981, the drugs were later ad­ministered by his personal physician, Dr. Jamie Astaphan. 
Asked if he saw the doctor injeCt Johnson with steroids, Francis replied, "On occasion, yes." 
Astaphan, who has promised to travel to Toronto from his home in the Caribbean to tes­tify, has denied he gave the drug to Johnson. 
In hour after hour of detailed testimony on the use of anabolic steroids and growth hormones, Francis said that at an early stage, champion wo­man sprinter Angella Taylor Issajenko injected Johnson and fellow sprinter Tony Sharpe while the two men injected Is­sajenko with a growth hor­mone. 
Francis said that top-level in­ternational competition is vir­tually impossible without steroids. 
In his second day of tes­timony he cautioned against believing any claims from top-level athletes that they are clean and that their records are the result only of hard work. 
"It just isn't true, not at the 

highest level," Francis said. He said repeatedly that steroids "are not a short cut" but the reason top-level ath­letes are able to train as hard 
as they do. 
Francis has been Johnson's coach since 1977, when the sprinter was 15. 
He said he first worked on steroid programs with Is­1 sajenko on steroids in 1979 and with Johnson and fellow run­
l
ners Desai Williams and 
l
Sharpe -in 1981. 
I 
The coach said he first con­sidered the "moral dilemma" I presented by the use of banned substances in international competition. 
"You have to decide, is it uni­versally being used out there?" he said. 
Francis said the rule for his athletes was to stop taking them 28 days before any test. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classifieds advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is


Classifieds 
3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 1 0 cents per five characters per day. 
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 Typlng-Wordprocesslng 237-1949 NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks for CASH II Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph. 233-2342 MARCHANT RESUMES Cover letters, life updating free consultations appoint­ment only (219) 287-7343 SHARE THE EXCITEMENT! Be part of Affluent Caucasian Awareness Week! Beginning February 30, 1989 at Aryan Hills Country Club. Want more info? Dial 555-IZOD. IRISH GARDENS IS LOOKING FOR ANYONE INTER­ESTED IN APPLYING FOR THE POSITIONS OF MANAGER OR ASST. MANAGER FOR 1989-1990 COME BY THE SHOP FOR AN APPLI­CATION I LOST/FOUND I LOST-BLACK CUMMERBUND AT TAl­MILITARY FORMAL!! call BRET x1389 LOST!I! one pair of black earmuffs on  LOST: GLOVES, Army issue (black lea her wgreen wool inserts). Lost last Thur. in 2d floor restroom or room 208 O'Shag or reserve reading rm. I know they're in vogue but please return them to 1106 Flanner or call Frank at 1534 ..they're part of my uniform. ············································· LOST: Women's official class ring, unan­tiqued gold W'diamond stone, in black ring box. It was both my graduation and 21st birthday gifHPLEASE CALL woany information!.. Michelle X3820 FOR RENT FURNISHED ROOMS & 2 BEDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS.272-6306 CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS REN· TtNG NOW FOR FALL 1989. FUR· NISHED 1 AND 2 BEDROOM APART· MENTS (UTILITIES INCLUDED). CALL 272-1441. WANTED NO Law school students to be reps for Kaplan-SMH Bar Review courses. Earn free bar review course plus SS's. Call 272-4135. Ask for Sue. RIDE NEEDED EAST ON 1-80 TOWARD NYC, PREFERABLY TO AREA OF WILKES-BARRE PA OR ELSE ANYONE HEADING TOWARDS PHILADELPHIA OR SYRACUS6£1NGHAMTON NY AREA PLEASE CALL NEIL AT X4051 ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT FISHERIES. Earn $600¢'\Yeek in can- Can you buy Jeeps, Cars, 4 X 4's Seized In drug raids for under $100.00? Call for facts today. 606-837· 3401, Ext. 881. Microwave & Cabinet-Litton II Genera­tion, 2 memories, probe, rack cookbook. · Like new-$200. Large cabinet-Excellent condition. $100. Phone 234-4263 after 12 noon ROUND TRIP AIR-CHICAGO TO DEN­VER!!! Leave 314. Return 3112. Call2533. HP 12C FOR SALE Instructions were lost but can be sent for. I don't use it much and could use the cash. Asking 50 dollars or highest offer. Call Mark at 283-1693 and leave a meSSIIge. TICKETS I 4 Louisville GA's for sale.272-6306 NEED 3 L'VILLE GA'S x1063 I have two stud. tix for Louisville game. Best offer by midnight Thurs. Call Kevin x3316. DESPARATE, I need 2 Grad Tix. will pay $please call T1m 287-7607 REM REM REM I'll trade you my roommate for two REM tlx on March 6 In Chicago. Cash also. Call Pat, 288-1552 \ PERSONALS Have a great break Mike.  ADOPTION-Caring, financially secure couple of Irish and Swedish ancestry wish to love, cherish, and raise your new­born child. Legal and confidential. Please call Linda and Craig COLLECT: 212-Bn­3574 TANZ!!IIllll HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY!!! INNOCENT PEOPLE BEWARE THERE IS GOING TO BE A MONSTER ON THE PROWL HAVE A GOOD ONE JOHN PATRICKII MMM HAPPY BIRTHDAY JOHN PATRICK TANSEY! BEST WISHES! MRS. McC CAMPUS PAINTERS INC. NOW HIRING NOVICE AND EXPERIENCED PAINTERS FOR SUMMER HOUSE PAINTING IN CHICAGO NORTH SUB­URBS. CALL TO ARRANGE AN INTER­VIEW 312-251-0151. MAILING ADDRESS IS: 2901 CENTRAL STREET­-EVANSTON, IL 60201 ··············································· One last reminder before break. Senior Formal Bid Sales are just 12 days away. Are you prepared? The Rush is on!!!! ·····················································.··;········You're late, You're late For a very impor­tant Date 12 days left to get that Date. Sr. Formal Bid Sales 12 days away!! AMY T**AMY T**AMY T**AMY T**AMY AMY TIS A GODDESS, JUST ASK HER SHE'LL TELL YOU ALL ABOUT HER­SELF! JUNIORS Did you miss the JPW T-Shirts? Call Mike (x1185) or James (x3265) to order yours today--only $6 to benefit St. Hedwig's!  Ride Needed TO Rochester New York for Spring Break Call John at 2290. Hey all you Glee Club men JR turns 20 tomorrow Make sure he has a HAPPY BIRTHDAY 1 need a ride to Dayton Thurs-Fri call Chris x2866 HOT BABES Come watch the WOMEN'S BASKETBALL team shoot for the CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIP tonight at 7:30 in the ACC FIND A FRIEND IN AUGUSTA... FOR AUGUSTA'S "KISS ME I'M IRISH BASH" Need ride to IU-Bioomlngton or Indianapolis on Friday. Call Mike at 1228. The STONE PUPPIES ( ) Two Guys Two Guitars Thurseday Nile ( ) at MATEO'S SUBS ( ) Ironwood Rd I .25 S beverages Scapi!! (Use it) NEED RIDE TO D.C. call lngo, 2376 will share expenses MURPH, CHEERS TO YOUR FINAL EDITION OF THE THE OBSERVERII! YOU DID A SUPER JOB AND I AM SURE THAT THE FUTURE WILL BRING GREAT  Dear?????, I got your Valentine, not your name I wrote you a Personal, No answer came. Things are not always what they seem; I'm dying to meet you . Love, Kathleen HELP!I! FLORIDA BOUND? I need a ride. Will share expenses Heidi-284-4364 VICKY-Have a great time on Concert Band tour! Halmost makes me sorry that I won't be in N.J. (but not quite). -Tim KERSTtN: Keep your chin up. Everything will work out wonderfully. HAPPY BIRTHDAY LIZ REILLY! Watch out Mazatlan--This PHYSICAL GODDESS turns 20 on March 7. Have fun! love, Stupid,KTOC and Wendy-0 SOPHOMORE SOPHOMORES Spring Formal is coming soon ... Apri 8. Get a date! HEY BUMBLE! I'd love to bounce around with you. Have a Happy Birthday! -Chin Man DESPERATELY Need Ride to Chicago, Milwaukee, Madison, or Appleton For Spring Break. Will Share Expenses. Nicole x4814 HAPPY BIRTHDAY CRAIGII  
2-21 somewhere in the vicinity of LaFor­ nery, $8,000-12,000¢ for two months on  SUCCESS!  THANKS  FOR  ALWAYS  ....  
tune camp. lab. Please call Dawn at 1292 if found FOUND:SCARF IN EIGHT FLOOR SEM­INAR ROOM OF LIBRARY ON THURSDAY FEB 23. CALL x1900 TO CLAIM LOST-A MODERN, SILVER WATCH WITH BLUE TOPAZ FRIDAY NIGHT. COULD HAVE BEEN FOUND IN DILLON OR THE ELK'S CLUB. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL JEN AT 2550. REWARD WILL BE GIVEN. IF YOU ATTENDED LAST FRIDAY'S SMC JUNIOR FORMAL AND WORE A GREY TWEED SPORTCOAT, PLEASE CHECK AND SEE IF YOU BROUGHT  fishing vessel. Over 8,000 openings. No experience necessary. MALE OR FEMALE For 52-page employment book­let, send $8.95 to M&L Research, Box 84008, Seattle, WA 98124. 30 day, un­condrtional, 1 00"/o money back guarantee $3500AY PROCESSING PHONE OR­DERS PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPE­RIENCE NECESSARY. CALL (REFUNDABLE) 315-733-6063 EXTEN­SION P-2382-H. CRUISESHIP JOBS $300 TO $900 WEEKLY CALL LINDA 9-5 WEEKDAYS 1-612­456-0884 EXT. C-4080 HELP! I need a ride to Chicago-0-Hare, by 2:30p. Friday. Will help with gas. Please Call Patty X4179.  LAW SCHOOL: Start your Bar Review early. Kaplan-SMH reviews to many states available here In South Bend. Transfer back home for summer. Dis­counts for Kaplan LSAT alumni. Reserve before March 2 Call272-4135. Ask for Sue. SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-&oo-343-8373 Complete haircut and style with Peg­gy; Special Price of: $7.00 lor men and $10.00 for women. Call Coslmo's Shapes and Lines for an appointment. You won't be disappointed! 2n-1875.  ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS SEEKING SUMMER EMPLOYMENT IN THE CHICAGO AREA Domer Temporaries Inc, is a new tern porary employment agency offering Notre Dame students job opportunit ies with Notre Dame alumni in the Chicago area. Students are guaran teed good jobs at quality rates. If interested, please call Domer Temporaries 283·2320 Come to the theater, your last cheap date B4 breek! 8pm Tonlte Wash. Hall Lab FREE ................................................................  BEING THERE FOR ME AND MAKING MY FRESHMAN YEAR ALOT EASIER. LOVE, ALISSA GINA GRANDOLFO You are the most sensual woman I know. Your beauty captivates me. I long to hold you softly in my arms. But I know you will never feel the way I do. An Admirer ROSI, GEE I THOUGHT I'D AVOID YOU FOR THE NEXT 2 YEARS. P.S. STOP LIVING IN THE PAST, YOU LIVE IN 213  Hey Lewis Women-We beat B-P on the b-ball court AND on the scales! II! To the brunette on the 8th floor of the 'brar: I know what you did and I loved it. A secret admirer Happy 21st Birthday Tommy! Hope you have a great day Love, Arne BUSINESS MAJORSI!! Gain valuable work experience The Observer Ia now hiring lor the fol­lowing possltlons: Accounts Payable Manager Accounts Receivable Manager  .­ 
HOME THE RIGHT ONE. IF YOU BROUGHT HOME A HARRIS TWEED INSTEAD OF YOUR OAKMONT, CALL ME AT X2264 AND WE'LL TRADE.  Ride needed to CINCINNATI vicinity. Will share expenses. Call Melissa (after 6prn) at34n.  OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo. Summer, Yr.round.AII Countrtes,AII flelda. Free Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52­ Rest up  Rest up Rest up its coming...  SUSAN KIRALY .........................................................'. ...... LOOKING FOR A FRATERNITY,  Purchasing Manager Payroll Manager Submit your resume at The Observer Olltce, Third Floor LaFortune, to Mlo­ 
LOST:FUGI CAMERA WITH FLASHeFILM My camera was lost at my party on Navarre St. Friday night. Please return rt and if you absolutely have to have rt, please return the the film. No questions will be asked. Please return ~Ill Call Tim at 288-()426 or 288-5423 LOST:FUGI CAMERA WITH  F6 NEED RIDE TO ST. LOUIS! F5 CAN LEAVE EARLY AS THURSDAY F6 Call Andy at 283-3811 Need ride to Cleveland: Leave Fri anytime: Pay gas & tolls, share driving: Call Dan, 234-9138; or 239·7312, leave message.  IN04, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. hi ag SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID  St. Pat's Day Under the Dome!!! Rest up Rest up Rest up its coming... St. Pat's Elay Under the Darnell I  SORORITY, OR STUDENT ORGANIZA­TION THAT WOULD LIKE TO MAKE $500-$1,000 FOR A ONE WEEK ON· CAMPUS MARKETING PROJECT. MUST BE ORGANIZED AND HARDWORKING. CALL JILL OR CORINE AT 1-800-592·2121. SORRY HOULY, THERE WON'T BE A  hetle Soper by 5 p.m., Tuesday, March 14, 1989 Call 239-5303 or 283-2688 It you have any questions Hey, Dave Lese TONIGHT WE RUMPLE! VACATION BUDDIES: Only one more  
FLASH¢FILM  CALL 1-800-343-8373  Need rider to Texas for Easter leaving 17th, back on 27th call Jon 272-7 496  STRIKE ONE BECAUSE WE ALREADY WON THE GAMEl IF YOU WANT TO  day till our week in the sun. Get ready for pure anarchy and drunkenness! See  
LOST-Taupe Liz Claiborne keychain-nif found PLEASE, PLEASE call x2297.  FOR SALE  ADOPTION  Yo! Give Little Pete a ride to PH ILLY for  PLAY BALL, YOU BETTER LEARN THE RULES!I LE  FIRST  you tomorrow at 12-Peg.  
Loving,secure married couple unable to  break! x4016  DEAR ROOMIES, Have a great break  
LOST: Blue blazer taken by mistake from Friday's St. Mary's Junior For­mal. Red hankerchlef In left front  79 MIDGET EXC. COND. LOW MILAGE 294·5699  conceive seek to adopt. Can pay le­gal,medical exp. Pis caJi collect Chris & Susan, 703'.!76-9751 Completely con­ RIDE NEEDED TO ROCHESTER, NEW YORK FOR SPRING BREAK. Call JOhn  KATIE...YO!J ARE SIMPLY LIVID! BRIDGE...KOK LOVES YOU. MARIA ... GET SOME SLEEP! AMY &  and get signed up for detox sessions after we make it through our last 69 days of "studenthood" starting March t 3111 love,  
pocket. Call Ken Douglas et 288-n59.  fidential.  at 2290  MEL...QUIT STUDYING!  rozel  
•••• 1 ••.••••.•...•.•......•••••••••.••••••••••..•.••••••••••••••  


Thursday, March 2, 1989
page 10 The Observer 
Judge rules to proceed with sports agents case 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO--A federal judge Wednesday gave. the final go­ahead to the trial of two sports agents accused of using payoffs and threats to get college ath­letes to signing contracts with them. 
Mter rejecting a defense at­torney's request to have Norby Walters and Lloyd Bloom tried separately, U.S. district Judge George Marovich ordered jury selection to begin. 
"There will be only one trial and it will involve both defen­dants," Marovich said. 
The government contends the two New York-based agents offered dozens of college ath­letes money, cars, clothes, con­cert tickets and trips in ex­change for signed --and usually post-dated-agreements giving them exclusive rights to repre­sent the athletes in professional contract negotiations. 
Walters, 58, and Bloom, 29, have both pleaded innocent to charges of racketeering, mail fraud, wire fraud and extortion in the case. 
Bloom's attorney, former federal prosecutor Dan Webb, said he wanted his client tried separately from Walters be­cause their defenses could con­flict. 
The trial is expected to pro-
A. letter 

.....,..,,,,,,,,;'.'' ...,. ·.. 
.
from··r 

basKetball 
·near Notre Dame Student 
:~t:;::.::·.·:·:·.
Bod
y: .·:zb,,"'''''''·"'':.,,,.,,.,,..,.. :;,,..,....,, .. i''·' This weekend, a8' you're well aware, is the start of spring break. Most of you will be fortunate enough to take a week, off and head home, to the mountains to ski or to the beaches to roast. But this weekend is also very important for the basketball team. We'll be playing Louisville on Saturday after­noon in the Joyce Center, and we need the students'· help .. If you can, stick around. We'd like yoU:r vocal support Saturday as we continue "·"· battle for an NCAA tourna­ment bid. Not everyone is leaving before the game, so you have tickets, give them ;,away,, to .··someone that's going t() be oil campus. We still. need vocal student support to help knock nttthill""';;:' Cardinals., .We're .~ ..... ..,...........,,,,,,,,. everyone who's left will ~~leyjsiotl SaWt'day m:u:~r· 1 noon to watch the · · 
we want to let you we appreciate 
this 
-. 
neys that he would forbid tes­timony and questioning that was irrelevant to the criminal charges against the two agents. 
"I am only going to allow evidence in this courtroom that is relevant in this courtroom," he said to the attorneys. "You're going to put certain balls into play and I'm going to sit up here and call them fair or foul." 
Prosecutors had indicated earlier this week that they might file new charges against Walters, but U.S. attorney An­ton Valukas said Wednesday he instead would use the evidence collected for additional charges to support this case. 
vide an inside look at what prosecutors say is the seamier side of college sports and prosecutors' plans called for testimony from several profes­sional athletes who dealt with the two agents. 
The sports world is closely monitoring the case because it raises serious questions about the structure and practice of big-money college athletics, es­pecially lucrative football pro­grams.
But Marovich said he did not want the trial to become a morality play. 
"The system is not on trial," he said. The judge cautioned attor-

Spring Break, 
go Greyhound® instead. 
For just $49.50 each way, you and your friends can afford to pile on Greyhound. Whether it's the beach, the slopes or your hometown, going Greyhound won't cramp your style. 
~9~ 
each way based on round-trip purchase. 

JUIGO GREYHOUND 
~Amleave the driving to us: 
4671 Terminal Drive • 287-6541 

Must present ~al_id college I.p. card upon purchase. No other discounts apply. Tickets are nontransferable and good only for travel on Greyhound and other partJc!patmg earners. Offer hrmted. Greyhound also offers low Money Sav~r fares. Some restrictions apply. Spring Break fare available 2/1/89 through 4/30/89 and 1s subject to change wnhout nonce.© 1989 Greyhound Lines, Inc. 


Thursday, March 2, 1989 The Observer page 11 

Women's basketball faces tough challenge in Loyola 









Fencers busy over break 
By CHRIS FILLIO Sports Writer 
A week after this year's spring break, the Irish men's and women's fencing teams will know their competitors in this year's NCAA tournament. 
But first they must compete in this weekend's Great Lakes Championship and the Midwest Regional Championship next weekend. 
The Great Lakes, to be held at the Wayne State campus in Detroit, will feature the top three fencers in each weapon from several Midwest schools. Qualifiers will travel the fol­lowing weekend to the Midwest Regionals to be held at the Uni­versity of Chicago. 
"I think it's conceivable that 
we could end up with more 
finalists this year at the NCAAs 
than anyone," said head coach 
DeCicco. "Coming out of this 
weekend, I'll be anxious to see 
how high a seed we get." 
In foil the Irish will send 
Derek Holeman (25-0, Yehuda 
Kovacs (31-1), and Phil Leary 
(22-3). All three have 
legitimate chances of battling 
By FRANK PASTOR Sports Writer 
A rematch with Midwestern Collegiate Conference-leading Loyola that could determine the number-one seed in the first-ever MCC Women's Bas-

Hopcz Your Zlst 
is just awczsomcz. 
y_ou
UTfiLL ROOMIE•• •MOH 
Don't forget to check out Ted's Hideaway! 
·, .... tiLt.-•. •· tot..~·~· 111:"" ,: ~" "' •. "-... \f..~ 11.' M' tr" fl:• ... "' 5~ .... • J..Jft':t.-"'l'JJ .J ~· 'lli.J ,;. ....... ilo. '-' ... ~ ... :"',..;Ill.~ ..;.;.. .. .-,·"­
ketball Tournament highlights the final week of regular­season play for Notre Dame. 
The Irish (10-2 in the MCC, 16-9 overall) square off against Loyola tonight at 7:30 and then play Butler at 2 p.m. Sunday in 
their way to the Midwest Regional. 
The sabre team will present a strong compliment of fencers as well. Sophomore Leszek Nowosielski (24-0) posted his second undefeated record in as many years at Notre Dame. Classmate David Kirby (17-1) will join N owosielski along with freshman Ed Baguer (20-4). Baguer, who is coming off a recent hamstring injury, should be at least at 75 percent strength. Senior undefeated sabreman Tim Collins (16-0) will have to sit out the tourney due to an ankle injury which he suffered several weeks ago. 
"I don't see anyone challeng­ing us in sabre," said DeCicco. "I think that we have the best sabre team in the Midwest." 
The epee team will consist of senior captain Ted Fay (33-2), last year's NCAA silver medalist Todd Griffee (39-8), and freshman Englishman David Calderhead (31-10). Both Fay and Griffee have extensive tournament experience, while Calderhead boasts an impres­sive first year record. 
The women's foil team is coming off an excellent regular season in which they suffered only one loss at the hands of Ohio State while also defeating the defending national cham­pions from Wayne State twice this year. 
Senior captain Janice Hynes (30-6) will be joined by fresh­man Heidi Piper (30-5), senior Kristin Kralicek (27-6) and sophomore Lynn Kadri (38-8). The women as well have a very strong field, and will seek to recapture the nation title which they won two years ago. 
"It was a lot easier to beat Wayne State this year with Lynn Kadri," stated DeCicco. "In order to beat the top schools in the nation, you have to get that one bout from the number four spot. It's very, very critical." 
This weekend will also fea­ture the Big Ten tournament for those schools. Qualifiers from that competition will join the Great Lakes qualifiers in the Midwest Regionals next weekend. At the end of this month, the Midwest qualifiers will travel to Northwestern University, the site of this year's NCAA tournament. 
the Joyce ACC to cap another fine MCC season. 
Loyola (11-1 in the MCC) and Notre Dame locked up the top two spots in the tournament field with victories last Satur­day. The Irish's 69-56 victory over Xavier in Cincinnati was the 200th all-time win for the Notre Dame women's hoops program. 
Loyola can sew up the top seed in the tourney by defeat­ing the Irish tonight. A Notre D_ame victory, on the other 
STEAKS 
PRIMERIB 
SEAFOOD ft~use 
RfSTAI.JRANT 

Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday hrunch 
219-259-9925 
a.. A. lo 
.. 


The Observer I E.G. Bailey 

The Irish fencing team will compete In the Great Lakes Champion­ships and the Midwestern Regional Championships over spring break. 
hand, would leave both teams with identical conference records going into their final regular season games. 
Evansville, Detroit and Dayton remain in contention for the final two spots in the tournament. Evansville and Detroit look to be the frontrun­ners with 7-6 conference records. Dayton currently holds a 6-7 conference mark. 
Butler is in seventh place in the MCC with a 3-9 record but is the only team to have beaten Loyola in conference play. Three sophomores will have to continue their strong play this weekend if Notre Dame is to come away with a pair of wins. 
Irish point guard Karen Rob­inson has been on an assist tear of late, averaging 7.2 assists over the past five games. She has dished out 5.6 assists per game this season. 
Krissi Davis, who scored a career-high 22 points last Sat­urday against Xavier, leads the Irish in steals from her low post position. The sophomore for­ward has 67 thefts in 25 games this year for an average of 2.7 per game. 
Guards Sara Liebscher and Robinson are currently tied for the lead in freethrow percentage with a .836 mark. Liebscher has converted 56 of 67 attempts, while Robinson has made good on 61 of 73 foul shots. 



~---------~ ­
~-~·-·-·-----~~------~-­
page 12 Thursday, March 2, 1989
The Observer 





Women's tennis goes West 
Irish netters to compete with several California schools 
By CHRIS COONEY Sports Writer 
While the typical Notre Dame student will be spending spring break relaxing and avoiding any activity that even remotely resembles work, the Notre Dame women's tennis team will battle five squads that should challenge it with a style of play very different than what the Irish usually face. 
The Irish travel to California next week where they will meet some of the tougher additions to their improved schedule. The teams all tend to attack with an aggressive tempo and more net play than most Mid­western schools are used to seeing. That variety and the overall strength of the squads caused Irish head coach Mic­hele Gelfman to decide to add these schools to this year's itinerary. 
"All the teams have good programs," said Gelfman, "and they are always known for having excellent players." 
"The California schools usually have a variety of dif­ferent types of match play than we normally see," Gelfman continued. "They hit the ball with lots of slice and use a greater selection of shots." 
Gelfman explained that the, Irish normally compete against more conservative players who hit the ball with less spin and are less apt to ap­proach the net. 
Notre Dame's greatest chal­lenge should occur on Tuesday when they face San Diego State, currently ranked 18th in the national polls. The team boasts the country's No. 62 col­legiate player, Aby Brayton, who is just behind Irish leader CeCe Cahill, presently occupy­ing the 61st position. 
"Those two should be right on par with each other," said Gelfman. 
Brayton also pairs with Jen­nifer Larking in doubles. The duo is ranked 29th in the nation. 
Notre Dame will face three schools before and after the San Diego meet. They play Cal State Long Beach on Sunday, Cal State Fullerton on Thursday and UC Irvine on Friday. The Irish finish the week by playing Pennsylvania who will also be in Caifornia. 
"It should be a great experi­ence for us," commented Gelfman. "There will be no pressures from school and the girls are really excited to fi­nally play outdoors." 
While the natural environ­ment will be a welcome change from a winter of indoor prac­tices, Gelfman is concerned about her team's adjustment to the climate. 
"We'll have one day to prac­tice outside and then we have a match. That should be a tre­mendous challenge," Gelfman said. 
The Irish should return to their normal roster, after ill­ness and injury hampered Kim Pacella and Kristy Doran in last weekend's loss to Miami of Ohio. 
Gelfman feels that her team has the right attitude going into the competition. 
"I would like to think that we could beat any team on a given day if the competition is equal. It's hard to predict how we'll do since we've never played them before, but I hope that we can stay up and aggressive," Gelfman commented. "We just need to play our own game and control the tempo." 

Swimmers face intercollegiates 
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 
Last week the women's swim team placed fifth in the Eas­tern Intercollegiate Champion­ships, and this weekend the men's team will get its turn in the same meet. 
This will be the 15th annual Eastern Intercollegiates for men's teams, and the second year that Notre Dame has par­ticipated. The Irish will be racing against several quality teams including St. Bonaven­ture, the defending champion, and Cleveland State, the host school, both of which Notre Dame has faced earlier this year. 
Head Coach Tim Welsh an­ticipates that the Irish will finish somewhere in the middle of the pack of ten teams, but the priority for the team will be performance, not winning. 
"We're confident that anyone who swims well will score," Welsh said. "If we swim our best, then the points will come, and whatever comes after that will be fine." 
One of the goals for the Irish is to break as many University records as possible at the meet. It's also a chance for the team to evaluate their season. 
"Championship meets are a culmination of everything we've been working on all season," Welsh said. "It demonstrates how good we've become." 
The Irish will take 18 swim­mers to participate in the championships, including five seniors who will be racing for the last time for Notre Dame. This will be Welsh's first graduating class. 
Several NCAA qualifiers are expected to be produced at the meet, and although the Irish 

The Observer 
are not expected to qualify "We're a couple of years anyone, Welsh emphasized away from national stand­that the standards for the ards," Welsh noted. "But we NCAA meet are very high. have something to aspire to." 
romf's2~WEM~HfcAREn 
t  HAPPY BIRTHDAY SEAN!  :  
t  t  
: t t t t  ~~~  t t t t t  
t  t  
:  From:  Hickster, Dee, Gina, Case, Matty,  :  


L------~~~~~~~--~ 
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS 
YOUR FIRST STEP TOWARD SUCCESS IS THE ONE YOU COULD TAKE THIS SUMMER. 
Army ROTC Camp Challenge. It's exciting 
andit maybeyour last opportunity to grad­
uate with an Army Officer's commission. 

ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COWGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
Interested? Call Major Warrick 
239-6264 

The Observer I Suzanne Poch CeCe Cahill and the women's tennis team take a trip to California over break to take on several formidable opponents on the West Coast. Included is top 20 team San Diego State. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY DAVE 

Let's start to celebrate Soon we will graduate! Love, THERESE MOM and LAURIE Have fun in FLORIDA 
HARVARD 
Summer School '89 

June 26-August 18 
Harvard Swnmer School offers open enrollment in day and evening courses. The curriculum 
t. includes courses that fulfill college degree 

~..~ ;r•-.. 
requirements and programs designed ~.-.,,.,. ,. :1.1 for personal and professional development 
.-c..' • Our international student body has access to Harvard's outstanding libraries, fine museums, well-equipped laboratories, and cultural activities. 
We feature a college-level program for secondary school juniors and seniors,• as well as a Dance Center and special programs in Drama, Writing, Ukrainian Studies, and English as a Second Language. 
For more ill[ormDtioll re1J1r11 lite coupo11 Mlow or call (617) 495-2494 (24-lwur liM). Please allow J-4 ""'cb for delivery. 

,--------------------, 
I  0  YES, please send a 1989 HaiVard Swnmer School CATALOGUE and/or specific information about the following programs:  I  
I  D Secondary  School  l'r<llram  0  EnaJiah  u  a  Seo:ancl l.uvuop  I  
I  0 Donee  C...tor  0  Drama  0  Writinr  I  
I  Name  ------------------------------------­ 
1  Addreaa  --------------------­ 
1  City, State, Zip  

I 

I HARvARD UNIVERSITY SuMMER ScHooL 
I Dept. 668', 20 Garden Street, Cainbridge, MA 02138 USA 
L--------------------~ 
By THERESA KELLY Assistant Sports Editor 
In the 1980s, the Louisville Cardinals have been known as a team that may start slow, but always finishes strong. 
On Saturday, the Notre Dame men's basketball team will try to turn that around. 
Head Coach Denny Crum's teams have been in the NCAA Final Four four times during the past decade, wining the championship twice. 
Digger Phelps and his team need to win, and keep winning over spring break, to make the NCAA's Final 64 this year. 
"Every game is important to us," Phelps said. "The trend has been to send two indepen­dents in the tournament. We hope that continues. DePaul is a very good team that deserves to go. I think each school would like to see the other go." 
Louisville, however, is not the late-season team it usually is, having lost five of their eight games, including their last two. Wednesday's shocking home loss to Cincinnati sends the Cardinals into the Joyce ACC looking for a win in a big way. 
The Cardinals are keeping with the style they have set this season, facing some of the country's top teams (like Duke, 

Thursday, March 2, 1989 
The Observer 

Key to tournament this week 
Notre Dame faces Louisville and DePaul over break 
Syracuse and Georgia Tech) when the oponent needs a big win. 
Pervis Ellison leads the Car­dinals with 17.7 points and 8.6 rebounds per game. Ellison, a 6-9 center, is only the second player in Louisville history to score over 2,000 points, with a total of 2,102 prior to the Cin­cinnati game. 
Other probable starters for the Cardinals are 6-8 forward Kenny Payne, averaging 14.3 points and 5.9 rebounds per contest. Forward Tony Kimbro and guard LaBradford Smith also score in double figures, at 
10.8 and 10.7, respectively. 
The Irish got a chance to scout the Cardinals at the Big Four Classic in Indanapolis Dec. 3, when the Irish beat Ken­tucky 81-65 and Louisville defeated Indiana 101-79. El­lison scored 19 points in the win, and teammate Smith added 17. 
The Louisville game is the last of the season for the Irish in the Joyce ACC. On Monday, March 6, the Irish embark on what Phelps has called "our conference tournament," made up of three consecutive road games. 
Phelps has said that other teams, who have conference af­filiations, use conference tour-
AIR TRAVEL 
IMMEDIATE RESERVATIONS 
TICKETS DELIVERED 

255-7272
CALL US NOW FOR BEST PRICES 
~ tours UtJrovcl
...---•,a~~. international···-=--== 
117 S. MAIN STREET MISHAWAKA, IN 46544 
-
: Aerobic & Water Aerobic Instructor : 
• Tryouts • 
: Stop by the NVA Office & Complete the following : 
• 
1. Application : 

• 
2. File CPR Certification 


• 3. Tryouts March 13th-May 5th • •• sign up now at NVA office with Sandy •• 
4. Final interview 
e Any questions call Sandy 239-5965 e
• 
ATTENTION: Grad Students, Professors, Employees 

MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Less than 10 minutes from campus 

naments to warm up for post season play. This season, the Irish have a trip to Butler and road rematches with Mar­quette and DePaul. 
Butler is lead by 6-6 senior forward Darren Fowlkes, who averages 18.8 points and 7.9 rebounds per game. Guard Jody Littrell adds 13.6 points per game for the Bulldogs. 
Notre Dame holds a 69-25 ad­vantage over Butler, winning last season's contest 85-66. The game, at Hinkle Fieldhouse in Indianapolis, is at 7:35 p.m. and will be televised by WGN. 
The Irish travel into Mil­waukee March 8 to face Mar­quette at Bradley Center for a rematch of the 83-68 Irish vic­tory Feb. 2. The Irish are 28-16 on the road against-the War­riors. The game is at 8:30 and will be televised on WGN. 
The NCAA tournament bid may be on the line when the Irish play fellow independent and old rival DePaul at the Rosemont Horizon, Rosement, Ill., on March 11. By that time, both Notre Dame and DePaul may be looking for the victory 
---~~--------­

that will get one of them off the ly, they deserve to go." fence and into the tournament. "Every game is a must," The Irish beat the Blue Demons said DePaul head coach Joey 66-60 Wednesday night. Meyer. "If we win now, we 
"DePaul is not an 18-11 sweat less on Sunday (of tourn­team," Phelps said after Wed­ament picks). All we can do nesday's win. "With all the now is not count losses, just go power games they played ear-win two games." 
Boards 
continued from page 16 
Robinson had enougth time on the foul line to build a house during that first half. He went into the lockerroom with nine rebounds and 12 points on 8-of-9 foul shooting. 
"It was very physical in­side," said the 6-9 Irish for­ward, who finished with 11 rebounds and 17 points. "That was a big part of the game, to keep them off the offensive boards." 
The Irish especially wanted to contain DePaul forward Stanley Brundy, who had hurt the Irish in DePaul's two wins over Notre Dame last season. 
DePaul's 6-7 senior scored just three second-half points after a 10-point first half. He pulled down 11 rebounds, but only two of them came on the offensive end. 


"We played him very aggres­sively this time," said Robin­son. "We didn't want to let him get in position for rebounds be­cause he scores most of his points off offensive rebounds." 
"We had to do an excellent job of keeping them from get­ting offensive rebounds," said Irish coach Digger Phelps. "That's their second best of­fense. When they're shooting the ball well, they really pound the boards, and when they're not, they're a great offensive rebounding team." 
LaPhonso Ellis also had a lot to do with Notre Dame's suc­cess inside. The 6-9 freshman forward pulled down a game-
is currently accepting applications for the following positions: 
Purchasing Manager Payroll Manager 
Send resumes by March 14 to: Controller Michelle Soper For more information call239-5303. 
high 12 rebounds, and his 17 points tied Robinson for top honors on the team. 
"I think we boxed out pretty well tonight, and that was the 
key  to  beating them  on  the  
boards," said Ellis.  
. DePaul  actually  out- 

rebounded the Irish 20-19 in the second half but continually had trouble getting second shots. The Blue Demons only re­corded eight rebounds during the entire game. 
"LaPhonso and Keith really established themselves early," said Irish guard Joe Fredrick, whose 10 points were well below his 17.2 scoring average. "We needed that because Jamere (Jackson) and myself were really struggling. We played bad, Jamere and myself shot bad, but our big guys played very well." 
Hoops 
continued from page 16 
against 7-1 center James Hamby. Singleton drew a foul, hit the off-balance shot and then nailed the free throw for a three-point play that put the Irish on top 52-48. 
"I looked up and Brundy was right in my face to block the first shot," Singleton said. "I was really determined to score after that. I just went up, made sure I made contact, and luck­ily I hit it." 
Brundy, who scored 10 first­half points, was ,held to just three in the second period by Notre Dame's match-up zone. 
Greene was 3-of-11 from the field and 1-of-5 from three-point range. Neimann, who came into the game hitting 45.8 per­cent of his three-pointers, was 1-of-6 from beyond the stripe. 
The Irish outrebounded DePaul 40-38. 
"Defensively, we showed a lot of maturity tonight," Phelps said. "I thought we did an ex­cellent job on their big guys. I told the kids, 'You don't know how big this win is tonight.' We're 18-6 and still the best in­dependent team in the country." 

Thursday, March 2, 1989
page 14 The Observer 
Track faces championships 
IC4A's, NCAA championships on immediate agenda 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
Now that the regular season is over the men's track team travels to Princeton, NJ to take part in the IC4A Champion­ships, which Head Coach Joe Piane calls "the prerhier meet on the East Coast." 
Notre Dame will be sending 17 atheletes who have qualified to the championships in 10 events. 
The meet, officially called the Intercollegiate Association of Amateur Atheletes of America Championships, will host more than 100 schools throughout the East Coast. 
"This meet gives us the op­portunity to run against all the Big East schools, the Atlantic 10 schools, and anyone you can imagine on the East Coast," said Piane. "It's a great meet." 
Notre Dame's 17 qualifiers will travel to Princeton on Friday and participate in the two-day meet over the weekend. Then, for the Irish two-mile relay squad and anyone else who qualifies at the IC4A's, the trip continues to In­diana polis for the NCAA Cham­pionships on March 10-11. 
Entered in the 55-meter dash will be Raghib "Rocket" Is­mail and Rusty Setzer. Ismail, 
0.03 seconds away from a NCAA qualifying time, is the Irish favorite to qualify for NCAA's at the IC4A's. 
"I think this meet will prob­ably be a good opportunity for me because I'll be running against a lot of runners who already qualified to the NCAA's," said Ismail. "I hope with me trying to catch them I'll be able to reduce my time and qualify." 
Ismail and Setzer will also be running in the 200 meters, along with Peter DeMeo. 
Co-captain Jan Searcy, who has had leg problems this season, will be participating in the 500 meters. 
Kevin Whelan, who just qualified last weekend at the Alex Wilson Invitational, will be entered in the 800 meter race. 
Mark Lavery and David Warth, two members of the NCAA-bound two-mile relay squad, both qualified to the 1000 meters. 
Glen Watson, rebounding from a slow start, will be com­peting in the 55-meter high hurdles. 
Cross country and track All­American Dan Garrett and sophomore Ryan Cahill are slated for competition in the 3000. Garrett earned All­America honors in the 5000 last year. 
Cross country All-American Ron Markezich and junior Tom O'Rourke will be entered in the 5000-meter distance event. 
Richard Culp, Brian Pep­pard, Mike Rogan, and Sean Schneider, who make up the Irish Distance Medley Relay Squad, are set to compete in that event. Peppard and Rogan comprise the other half of the two-mile relay team. 
John Cole, the only Notre Dame athelete entered in a field event, will be participat­ing in the high jump. 
"I think it's certainly within our capabilities to finish in the top 10 or higher," Piane said. 
One particular team that stands out among the 100-plus at the IC4A's is George Mason University. This team is likely to finish high in the meet, and 
The Observer I Scott McCann The Notre Dame men's track team travels to Princeton, New Jersey on Friday to participate on the IC4A Championships. NCAA Cham­pionships will be held the following weekend. 
almost all of its atheletes are chances of finishing high in the from abroad. two-mile relay at the NCAA's. 
"You need a passport to be on their team," Piane quipped. "These guys (Peppard, 
George Mason sports at­Rogan, Lavery, and Warth) heletes from Hungary, En­have to enter the competition gland and West Germany, and with the intention to win," said has the best U.S.-Somalia con­the 14th-year Head Coach. nection east of the Mississippi. "You can't enter these races 
Piane likes Notre Dame's any other way." 
Baseball team faces Miami over break in Florida road trip 
By FRANK PASTOR Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame baseball team ( 4-0 has the opportunity to upset the third-ranked team in the country for the second time in as many weeks when it faces Miami on March 8, high­lighting a six-game road trip to Florida over Spring Break. 
The Irish defeated Texas (currently ranked fourth) 12-9 last Friday in Austin, a win that turned a lot of heads in the col­legiate baseball world. 
"This is the ultimate road game," said Head Coach Pat Murphy of the matchup ex­pected to draw over 10,000 spec­tators. "This is the first time somebody of the caliber of Miami has been all fired up about playing Notre Dame." 
Last fall Notre Dame swept the Hurricanes in a two-game series played at Stanley Coveleski Stadium in South Bend. Clearly, Miami has more at stake in the March 8 matchup than simply its number-three ranking. 
"We're going to concentrate on performance," added Murphy. "The odds are going 
lnterhall 
continued from page 16 
"We didn't run the tast break as well as we wanted," said the Manor's Tom Veltz. 
When pressure situations arose, Morrissey looked for one player. 
"Kevin Keyes did everything for us offensively and defen­sively," said Veltz. But Keyes had a championship per­formance because of his unsel­fish teammates. 
"They (Fisher) were focus­ing on the other guys and I had some openings, so I just took the shots and they were fal­ling." said Keyes. 
The overtime shot selection was the key to the victory. "We didn't hit the big shots 
to be against us, but we're going to maintain our team identity and we're going to believe in ourselves." 
Notre Dame will open the trip against Pittsburgh on March 5 in Orlando. The Irish will also face Rollins on March 6, Van­derbilt on March 9, Pennsylva­nia on March 10 and Columbia on March 11. Despite the ob­vious importance of the Miami gametiYI_ur_phy warns that the 
other five teams should not be overlooked. 
"We're trying to concentrate on Pittsburgh and Rollins right now," said Murphy. "Pit­tsburgh has a good program, and Rollins is one of the best teams in Division II. We can't overlook those teams. 
"Vanderbilt is a perennial powerhouse, and Pennsylvania was an NCAA regional team last year. We have six tough games in a week, and it's going 
HAPPY BIR,.BDAY 
All Our Love, 
Mom, Dad, Nicole &Heidi too! 
to be demanding on our pitch­ing staff. We better be ready." 
Notre Dame opened its season with a doubleheader sweep of Trinity on Feb. 23. 
Following the Texas win, the Irish ended their five-game trip to Texas by splitting a doubleheader with St. Mary's(Texas). 
Are you 
Rachel 

Crossen? Happy 20th! 
Love, 
Jill, Rooster, Jules, Jen & Laura 

IllALUMNI 
~!:CLUB 
Tlll#tttPR/;1/~1 
Co/lfe IffeettP?fOt 
s 17);1/I~IIT/ B 
p 

R R E
tPECit1L

I A
PRIZEt&111!E11V/11f(t
N K 
G '
•

*LI1ff/V~~t8efo~e8~eo.i* 
CLOSED FRI & SAT 
at the big times," said Wagenblast. 


------------------------------~-----~-----------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, March 2, 1989 
The Observer page 15 

Calvin and Hobbes 
.ill~ 
~ 
Bill Watterson 

~y! 
-~ 
j 
! 
I 
f!
) J 1.
5 
:
I 
0 
CAMPUS 
7 p.m. ND-SMC Right to Life meeting, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune. 
7:30 p.m. Women's Basketball vs. Loyola, JACC. 
8 p.m. SMC Music Department Guest Artist Recital, Midori Koga, Pianist, University of Michigan graduate artist, Little Theatre. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT 
Noon Gala-Kellog Graduate Student workshop slide show "In­digenous Arts and Crafts in a Small Town in Ecuador," by German Creamer, graduate student, Room 131 Decio. 
4 p.m. Radiation Lab Seminar "Charged Particle Track Ef­fects in Radiation Chemistry," Associate Professional Spe­cialist Jay LaVerne, Conference Theatre, Radiation Lab. 
4:15p.m. Hesburgh Program and AT&T Visiting Scholar Se­ries lecture "Making an Issue of Child Abuse: Political Agenda Setting for Social Problems," by Barbara Nelson, University of Minnesota, Room 122 Hayes-Healy. 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's
Tuna Muffin Turkey Cutlet Fried Chicken Pork Sukiyaki Baked Sole Manicotti Fettucini Alfredo Deli Bar 

NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS  25 Theme song of  49 Flaw: Comb.  
1 Englishman's  The Street Singer  form  
toe: 1899-1902  28 Producer De  50 Russian city  
5 Splendor  Laurentiis  south of Moscow  
9 Rascal  30 Paper measure  52 Bow maker  
14 Part of an  34Stick  54 Sitcom starring  
archipelago  36 Provides with a  Dick Van Patten  
15 Walter or I. W  sound track  59 Tropical fruit  
16 Author of "Marius  38 Gene  60 Links event  
the Epicurean" 17 Physical reprimand 18 Bright star in Lyra 19 Ott-white  component 39 Em my winner: 1988 42 High fashion 43 Cad  61 Ap'pearance 63 Landed 64 El Bahr 65 lonesco product 66 Gardner's "­ 
20 Sitcom starring Bonnie Franklin  44 Picasso's "Dora Maar-"  Calls It Murder" 67 Poll chaser  
23 Hawaiian goose 24 The thinker's  45 Environmental sci.  68 Levere!  
reward  47 Colleen  
DOWN  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  1 Encorel  
2 Kon-Tiki Museum  1:-:-+--+___,t-+-­ 
site  
3 Verve  
4 With rue his  
heart is laden  12 Mother, in Metz  31 Chanteuse Pial  51 Valerie Harper  
5 Stately dance 6 Was not contumacious  13 Inquisitive Paul 21 Scarcity 22 Sun-dried bricks  32 Pierre's year 33 Mme. Lupescu 35 Loophole  role 53 Of the spirit or mind 54 Anagram for  
7 Kind of cycle  25 Film maker's  37 Sound system,  ache  
8 Metallic element  -shot  tor short  55 Dictator's  
-=t=+::=+::::+=t  used in surgical tools 9 Malice 1 o Beluga roe  26 Kind of committee 27 LargeAfr. mammal  40 Large, eared seals 41 Express gruffly 46 Recorded  phrase 56 Barbecue implement 57 Monster or river 58 Be told  
..;..:+:;:.+;~+=!  11 Item discussed  29 Objects of  events  59 Doily  
by Lucretius  admiration  48 Bob of westerns  62 Comedian Louis  
The Far Side  Gary Larson  
C 1981 Chromcte Features  

D•str1buted by Un•wersal PTess Syndicate 

Question: How do you reach over 12,000 people daily? 
0 1980 Chronicle Features Distributed Universal Preu Syndicate Z.-18
Answer: Buy Observer ad space. 


''There's something different about that kid." 
Call 239-6900. 
----------~-------------------~­
Sports
Thursday, March 2, 1989 page 16 
ND beats DePaul, tops independents 
By MARTY STRASEN more. I'm in a rhythm at the Sports Editor line. I knew I'd make them." The Irish missed consecutive 
What Notre Dame's 18th vic­front ends of one-and-one op­tory lacked in beauty, it made portunities down the strech, al­up for in significance. lowing DePaul to threaten one 
The Irish claimed their stake last time in a game the Demons as the nation's top independent had trailed since late in the and took a giant step toward first half. gaining an NCAA tournament But after DePaul climbed to bid with Wednesday's 67-60 vic­within four points at 64-60, Stan­tory over rival DePaul at the ley Brundy missed a layup that Joyce ACC. could have cut the lead to two 
"It certainly wasn't an artis­and Brad Neimann missed a tic achievement," said DePaul three-point bomb that would coach Joey Meyer, whose Blue have sliced it to one. Demons fell to 18-11 and hurt Irish guard Tim Singleton hit their own chances of gaining a a free throw with 12 seconds bid. "I don't think either team left and rounded out the scoring played the kind of game they're with a dunk at the buzzer. capable of playing." "Even though we didn't shoot 
Irish coach Digger Phelps the fouls like we wanted to called Thursday's game a down the stretch, we didn't lose must-win situation, and his 18-6 our composure," Phelps said. · squad did the job with aggres­"We did an excellent job of sive, switching defense and a stopping their transition 
Jamere Jackson reaches high for a rebound in Notre Dame provided the rebounds necessary in 
slow tempo. DePaul shot a dis­tonight." 
Wednesday night's 67-60 victory over DePaul. a game that "was not an artistic masterpiece."
mal39.7 percent from the field. Freshman David Booth, a 6-7 
The Irish hit only 43.1 percent forward, outshone seniors of their shots, but managed to Terence Greene and Brundy pound the ball inside and earn with 23 points off the DePaul 
Rebounds the key in Irish victory
26 free throws, hitting 19. bench. 
Freshman forward LaP­Notre Dame scored the last By STEVE MEGARGEE the showdown between the na­Rebounds played a particu­honso Ellis and junior Keith 10 points of an otherwise close Assistant Sports Editor tion's top two independents. larly important role Wednes­Robinson led the Irish with 17 first half to take a 35-29 lead at "Notre Dame did a hell of a day, since both teams shot well points each. Robinson, who the intermission. Both coaches said job on the boards," said Meyer. below 50 percent.
missed a pair of potential DePaul cut the lead to 49-48 beforehand that rebounding "The final stats show we only The Irish established their in­game-winning free throws at with seven minutes to play, but would decide Wednesday lost by two (rebounds), but it side strength in the first half. DePaul last year as Notre Singleton's hustle gave Notre night's Notre Dame-DePaul seems like we lost by more. Notre Dame only outrebounded Dame lost 73-69 ·in overtime, Dame a much-needed lift. basketball game at the Joyce "We stressed all week that DePaul by three boards (21­was 9-of-10 from the stripe this After his shot was blocked by ACC. rebounding was key, and we 18), but the Irish took advan­time. Brundy, the 6-1 sophomore To the dismay of DePaul co­didn't do the job." tage of the physical inside play 
"I had to prove myself after went to the floor for the loose ach Joey Meyer, that's exactly Both teams came into the by shooting 13-of-15 from the last year," said Robinson, who rebound and went back up how things. worked out. The game with strong rebound foul line. scored 12 of his points in the Irish outrebounded the Blue margins, with Notre Dame at first half. "I just concentrated see HOOPS, page 13 Demons 40-38 and won 67-60 in plus-9.8 and DePaul at plus-4.9. see BOARDS, page 13 
Belles lose to Purdue-Calumet 1n• NAIA tourney 
By HEATHER ATKINSON the first 10 minutes, but to make rushed passes and the score was tied 63-63 and the Baranko and Linda Garrett led Sports Writer throughout the first half its sloppy shots that resulted in Belles had captured possesion in rebounding with 9 and 7, strong defense caused forced, more turnovers. of the ball from a missed field respectively. 
The Saint Mary's basketball sloppy shots that resulted in Purdue rallied during the goal by the Lakers. After a "They just got some good team failed to "make good Purdue turnovers. first seven minutes and gained time-out, they ran the clock bounces and took advantage of choices under pressure" The score remained close for an eight-point lead. The down but with three seconds them," said coach Wood. against Purdue University­the entire half with the lead Lakers' fast breaks and overall left a foul by a Saint Mary's ''They made really good Calumet, according to Head changing hands several times. quickness broke Saint Mary's player sent Purdue's Vicky choices under pressure." Coach Marvin Wood, in the At the half the teams were tied defense and they were able to Baker to the free throw line. opening round of the NAIA Dis­up 32-32. make their shots. Baker made both attempts and Saint Mary's Athletic Direc­trict tournament Tuesday and Purdue broke the tie within During the final four minutes won the game as Saint Mary's tor, JoAnn Nester, added, was defeated 65-63. the first minute of play. This of the game, increased was unable to get a shot off "This has been the best win­
Freshman Catherine Res­basket was answered with a rebounds and fouls drawn by before the clock ran out. loss season in the history of tovich got the Belles fired up three-pointer by Dawn Broh­Saint Mary's allowed them to Junior Julie Radke was the Saint Mary's. We are very for­with a break-away basket from man to put Saint Mary's on top close the margain. Once again leading scorer for Saint Mary's tunate to have such a first-class the tip-off. Travelling calls again. the teams took turns leading with 13 points, followed by team and coaching staff. We caused Saint Mary's to turn However, improved defense the ballgame. Dawn Brohman with 12. Radke are very proud of them despite over the ball several times in by the Lakers caused the Belles With 19 seconds remaining also had nine assists. Amy their loss." 
Morrissey beats Fisher in IH finals 
By DAVE McMAHON nalftime with the score tied at the action, but the teams Sports Writer 23. refused to slow down. Todd Wagenblast was three­Going into the second over­
After three straight years of for-three from the three-point time at 50-50, Morrissey losing in the playoffs, Morris­line in the third quarter to jumped to a 54-50 advantage sey finally captured the men's propel Fisher to a 38-34 lead. with the help of buckets by Interhall basketball title last Wagenblast nailed another Kevin Keyes and Johnson. The night with a 54-52 double over­three in the fourth before Mor­Green Wave, which finishes the time victory over Fisher. rissey tied at 46. Tom Veltz put season 11-2, stuck to their game 
the Manor up 48-46 with 24 plan but fell just short of ending
The Manor took an early 8-4 seconds left in regulation, but the season on a high note. lead before ending the first a two shot foul allowed the "We did every thing we quarter at 12-10. Fisher jumped Green Wave to tie. Wagenblast wanted to do except win the to an 18-15 lead midway found nothing but net on both game," said Wagenblast. through the second quarter and shots, sending the game into Morrissey, despite playing in attempted to slow down the the first overtime. a gym that was unfavorable to pace, but Morrissey's Derrick its style of play, never let up. Johnson and Rod Culver had Johnson put in a shot from the About 100 fans managed to other ideas, fastbreaking with paint and Fisher's Paul Fulling cram into gym two of the Joyce 
The Observer I Patrick Kusek perfection on an 8-0 run. The scored with 1:02 remaining for ACC, which offered little space Green Wave retaliated with the only points of the first over­around the court. five unanswered points includ­time. A flick of the light switch 
see INTERHALL, page 14
ing a three point play to go into caused a temporary delay in 









