
VOL. XXIII NO. 42 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bush to hold summit at sea with Gorbachev 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush announced Tuesday he will hold a shipboard summit in the Mediterranean with Soviet President Mikhail Gor­bachev Dec. 2 and 3 "to put up our feet and talk" informally prior to a full-blown super­power meeting next year. 
Bush described the weekend meeting as an open-ended dis­cussion with no fixed agenda. He said neither he nor Gor­bachev "anticipate that sub­stantial decisions or agree­ments will emerge" on arms control or other matters. 
The talks will take place on 
U.S. and Soviet naval ships on alternate days. The precise lo­cation was not announced,, but a site off Italy appeared likely since Gorbachev is to visit there from Nov. 29 to Dec. 1. 
Bush acknowledged he origi­nally had opposed the concept of a get-acquainted session, fa­voring instead a well-planned meeting with assurances of concrete results. 
However, he decided that with dramatic democratic changes sweeping across Eastern Eu­rope, the leaders of the two su­perpowers "should deepen our understanding" of each other. 
"I don't want to have two gi­gantic ships pass in the night because of failed communica­tion," Bush said. "I just didn't want to -in this time of dy­namic change -miss some­thing, something that I might get better firsthand from Mr. Gorbachev." 
The president said he ex­pected "a lot of discussion" about Eastern Europe. 
Bush's announcement drew bipartisan applause on Capitol 
see SUMMIT I page 4 East Germans demand reform AP Photo About 20,000 East Germans gather in front of the Lord Mayor's Hallin Cottbus, East Germany, Monday, for the first pro-democracy demonstration in that city. Hundreds of thousands of activists gathered for rallies demanding reforms in several East German cities Monday as that nation's Communist leader prepared for a trip to Moscow fnr talks with Kremlin officials. 

DART pierces through bugs, making registration time fly 
By CHRISTINE WALSH Assistant News Editor 
Registration by DART for the spring semester 1990 has been operational since Monday, de­spite persistent bugs within the system. 
The Hewlett-Packard main­frame, the computer system on which DART operates, caused registration to be halted for approximately two hours Mon­day, but the system was acces­sible again starting at 4:30 p.m., and was apparently avail­able for call-backs all night, said Daniel Winicur, dean of administration and Registrar. 
DART is not the only applica­tion on the HP mainframe, and access to DART was temporar­ily cut off because the HP pro­cessors kicked DART's priority low enough on the system to make it non-functional. To remedy the problem, the main­frame was "artificially forced to raise the priority of DART," said Winicur. 
Winicur said that he did not expect there to be any further problems of a priority nature, and that currently "the system is running fine." 
Those who missed their orig­inally scheduled appointments due to the system failure were able to register during the call back period, said Winicur. 
The system failure was "not a problem," Winicur said. "No classes were closed because it was only the first day (of regis­tration)." There was not a problem of students being closed out of classes just be­cause they could not call through at their scheduled times, said Winicur. 
As of Tuesday afternoon, roughly between 1500 and 1600 

capitol flag burning 
AP Photo 
An unidentified man is grabbed by Capitol Hill police Monday on the central steps of the Capitol as he burns an American flag Monday. Four people, chanting "burn, baby, burn," torched three American flags in ·a bid to test the new federal law protecting the national symbol from desecration. All four were arrested by Capitol Police. 
DART calls had been made, ac­cording to Winicur. Many of those calls were the result of students calling the system back after the initial registra­tion time slot, he said. 
Approximately 680 students per day are scheduled to regis­ter via DART. So far, seniors, graduate students, and law students have begun register­ing. 
Varsity athletes are given some priority in the registra­tion process, said Winicur. This is necessary for scheduling rea­sons. Athletes need to get into earlier classes so that their class schedules do not conflict with afternoon practices, Wini­cur said. 
However, "sophomores (athletes) will register with (other) sophomores," and the athletes simply will not be placed at the top of each class list, though they will be given preference within each class to some degree, Winicur said. 
Some departments have ex­perienced problems with receiv­ing the appropriate DART ac­cess numbers for students in those majors and concentra­tions. 
David Leege, director of the Hesburgh Program in Public Service said that he has still not received DART authorization numbers for two of three of the Hesburgh program courses. This affects approximately 60 percent of the Hesburgh pro­gram students, said Leege. 
"The Registrar's Office is trying to accommodate these students by manually register­ing them," said Leege. However, this has caused some insecurity among students, as to whether they have been actually enrolled in a particular class, he added. 
"I am supportive of a new system that reduces the stand­ing in lines... I welcome the change," said Leege. You have to realize that "no system is going to work well the first time," he said. 
Aside from the primary con­cern for getting the appropriate authorization numbers, the other problem Leege foresees with DART is that it will severely restrict non-majors and those students with con­centrations from getting into classes outside of their specific major. This may consequently decrease opportunities for re­ceiving a truly liberal education, said Leege. 
"At the intermediate level, students rely on getting into 'recommended' courses for ful­filling concentrations ... the new 
see DART 1page 4 
Zabigailo details legalities of perestroika 
By SARAH VOIGT News Writer 
Vladimir Zabigailo, professor of law at Kiev State University, outlined the reforms that the legal system in the Soviet Union is currently undergoing as part of Gorbachev's policy of pere­stroika in a lecture Tuesday. 
Zabigailo, deputy director of International Relations and In­ternational Law at Kiev State University, addressed law stu­dents 'and professors in the Notre Dame School of Law. 
Zabigailo emphasized the enormity of the task of drasti­cally changing the role of law in Soviet society. "We need to not only reconstruct the infrastruc­ture of the legal system, but to radically change the conscious­ness of all of the people in soci­ety," said Zabigailo. 
Zabigailo stressed the need for widespread reforms that would affect citizens from every class of society. "Not only the staff members and Board members should be targeted, we need to educate our people, each individual, to change his or her impression of the law," he said. 
"In the past the law in the Soviet Union was seen as a re­pressive force in society. The law was scrutinized as an in­strument for punishment," said Zabigailo. "Now our task is to reverse this approach to law; our task is to build a real legal state," he said. 
Zabigailo defmed a "real legal state" as a drastically different political system than the totalitarian state that existed in the Soviet Union at least until Stalin's death. According to Zabigailo, before Gor­bachav's policy of perestroika and openness to change, "Our state was the soul of society. A real legal state needs individu­als to be the soul of society." 
"A correlation between the state and law in a real legal so­ciety requires that the state be subordinated to the law and the state be subordinated to the in­dividual," Zabigailo said. Zabigailo explained that this situation was previously im­possible to achieve because of the rigid political climate in the past. 
Zabigailo admitted that the proposed legal reforms are ambitious. "It is a great task and it cannot be achieved in one month or two months or even three years; it must be a pro­cess," he said. 
"Despite various opinions about the results of pere­stroika, my opinion is that the reforms have reached great success," said Zabigailo. "It [perestroika] has reached great success in the political sphere of society." 
Although Zabigailo conceded that the reforms have made less progress in the economic and social spheres of society, he was very hopeful for the fu­ture success of legal reforms. "We are going to build a real democratic state," he said. 
Zabigailo elaborated, "This means that according to our new political thinking, we are trying to implement all of the 
see REFORMS I page 4 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Wednesday's Staff: 
Production 
Chris Loh~·PP Cristina Ortiz 
Naws Sports 
Florentine Hoelker Theresa Kelly 
John O'Brien Bob Mrtchell 
Vlllwpolnt Acalnt Ad Design 
Kim Skiles Paige A. Smoron Shannon Roach Colleen Stepan Barbara Bryn Quinn Statepauhoodle SySIIIms Alison Cocks Mindy Breen 
Tim Quinn Shelia Jones Tim Kiefer Jeanne Naylor 
page 2 
INSIDE CoLUMN 
Red Cross needs all of our help 
Before break. 
Notre --,•••••r­Dame adminstrators, students and fans showed quite a bit of charity and compassion. 
In response to the Northern California earthquake the University made an exception to its long­standing no solicitation rule and permitted the local American Hed Cross chapter to collect 
donations for quake victims. 
Organizations generally are not allowed to collect at football games, but circumstance made this an appropriate time to make an exception. 
By allowing the Hed Cross to accept donations during the game Notre Dame administrators showed students, alumni and fans that the University practices the charity and social concern it preaches. 
Notre Dame proved to the Southern California fans that even in the wake of a big game we remember that natural disasters sometimes happen off the field. 
The Hed Cross collected $4,800 in two hours at the game and the University can be thanked for getting the ball rolling, but after the earthquake and Hurricane Hugo more funds are needed. 
These disasters and the work of the Hed 
Cross may seem far off to those of us sitting 
snug on campus. but at one time or other their 
services will touch your life or the life of a 
loved one. 
We can all hope that we will never require the help of the disaster services, but even if we are lucky others will not be as lucky. It is good to know the Hed Cross is there for those in need. 
The Red Cross usually raises funds in 
affiliation with the United Way, but large-scale 
disasters require -special fund raising 
campaigns. 
The Red Cross receives no federal funding. It 
is truly an independent and largely volunteer 
organization. 
The Hed Cross is America's (and the world's} 
foul weather friend. 
The organization's volunteers and needs are 
too easily forgotten when disasters aren't the 
headlines. But even then the Red Cross is there 
with services like blood drives and health care. 
The University showed its commitment to the 
needy by allowing the Hed Cross to collect 
funds in the wake of-natural disaster. 
It is time for the student body to show its 
concern by giving time and funding to the Red 
Cross. 
The Hed Cross will be there to help us. Will we be there to help the Red Cross? 
Liz Panzica Business Editor 
The Observer Wednesday, November 1, 1989 
EATHER 
Forecast for noon, Wednesday, November 1. 
Yesterday's high: 46 Lines show high temperatures. Yesterday's low: 40 30 Nation's high: 8 7 (Miami, Fla.) Nation's low: 1 0 (Grand Forks, ND) 
70 
Forecacast: Mostly sunny today. 
· with increasing cloudi­ness throughout the afternoon, highs from the middle 40s to ncar 
50. Cloudy tonight with a 30 percent chance of light snow mixed with light rain, lows in the lower 30s. Cloudy and colder Thursday with a 40 percent chance of
FRONTS: 
light snow, highs from the middle to upper 30s.
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
©1989 Accu·Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
® © ~ 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
WORLD 
Richard Nixon told Deng Xiaop----.----.--an economy stumbling toward chaos. Foreign Minister ing in Beijing on Tuesday that some Eduard Shevardnadze bristled Tuesday as he denied Chinese leaders had lost respect in the U.S. news reports that the Dec. 2-3 summit meeting United States, and Deng accused with President Bush would develop an aid plan for the Washington of involvement in the Soviet economy. democracy movement that China's army crushed in June. China's 85-year­

Kari-Eduard von Schnitzler, who belabored
old senior leader told the former 
imperialists, revisionists and assorted capitalist vil­president that "China has not done lains on East German television for nearly 30 years,one single thing harmful to the United has lost his job to creeping reform. East Germany'sStates" in the past decade, according most prominent TV commentator said farewell Mondayto Xinhua, the official Chinese news on the final edition of his 20-minute weekly show "Theagency. 
Black Channel." He was unrepentant. as befits a man 
The Soviet leadership is heading for a su­born into a titled Prussian family 71 years ago. "I have perpower summit knowing that arms control progress nothing to be ashamed of." Schnitzler told his audience and better relations with the United States could boost Monday night, grim-faced as ever. 
NATIONAL 
New home sales took their steepest dive in While residents of quake-stricken Northern nearly eight years last month while the government's California slowly turn their thoughts to football and chief economic forecasting gauge registered only a Thanksgiving dinner, time has stood still for Cathy small increase, the government reported Tuesday. The Scarpa and dozens of others who were injured. Commerce Department's Index of Leading Indicators, Scarpa,37,is one of dozens still hospitalized with bro-designed to foretell economic activity six to nine ken limbs and other injuries suffered in the devastating months in advance, inched up 0.2 percent in Septem-earthquake Oct. 17 that killed 64, crippled the San ber.At the same time, the department reported new Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge and buckled a 1 1/2­home sales dropped 14 percent, the sharpest decrease mile section of the 1-880 freeway in Oakland. since a 19 percent decline in January 1982 during the last recession. 
INDIANA 
A federal judge has dismissed a lawsuit filed A man and a woman were killed in the crash of by former City Manager Alex Little against the city of a single-engine plane just east of the Ohio-Indiana Benton Harbor and the five city commissioners who state line, the Preble County (Ohio) Sherifrs Depart­fired him. A U.S. District Court Judge ruled last week ment said Tuesday. Sheriffs deputy Mike Simpson said there was no evidence of illegal intent in the firing of the plane, which he described as "home-built," crashed Little, now chief administrator for Gary, Ind. at about 6:15p.m. Tuesday. Simpson said the wreck­
age was found eight to nine miles east of the Hich­mond, Ind., airport.
Thirteen garbage-filled boxcars from the East Coast left Indianapolis on Tuesday after a salvage An argument between two students over company completed arrangements to send them else­some borrowed stereo equipment led to a stabbing in a where. Rosemarie Hansell of the Marion County Health hallway at Calumet High School in Gary, Ind., officials Department said Conrail officials notified her the box­said. Brian Morton, 16, was in stable condition Tues­
cars were on their way Tuesday afternoon. Hansell day at The Community Hospital in Munster, officials 
said she did not know their destination. 
OF INTEREST 
The Feast of All Saints is today. Masses will be held in the Crypt at 6:30, 7:15, and 11:15 
a.m. and 12:10 and 5 p.m. 
The Logan Center needs Navy tickets for their clients. Tickets can be donated today through Friday at dinner in the dining halls. Call Peggy at 284-4357 or John at 283-1881 for more information. 
Dialogue at Notre Dame, the new student magazine, will hold its first organizational meet­ing Thursday, Nov. 2, at 7:30 p.m. in the Sorin Room of LaFortune. Writers, artists, editors and all interested students welcome. 
said. 
Closings for Ootober 31, 1111 

Volume in shares 
176.10 MiIlion 
NYSE Index  
188.24  1}2.65  
S&P Composite 340.36  4lt 5.29  

Dow Jones Industrials 2,645.08 {?-41.60 
Precious Metals 
Gold "Jr $3.20 to $377.60 I oz. Silver .(]7 6.5¢ to $5.218 I oz. 
Source: AP 
On November 1 : e In 1512: Michelangelo's paintings on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel were first exhib­
ited to the public. e In 1755: A devastating earthquake and its aftershocks 
killed about 50,000 people in Lisbon, Portugal. e In 1765: The Stamp Act went into effect, prompting stiff resistance from American colonists. e In 1913: Notre Dame's football team upset Army 35-13 in a game at West Point that popularized the forward pass, and brought attention to Notre Dame's team captain, Knute Rockne. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a mamber of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
---~ 
Wednesday, November 1, 1989 The Observer 
Holiday Hosts set up for students 
By MONICA YANT News Writer 
Students on campus during Thanksgiving will be invited to eat holiday dinner with faculty and alumni, said Richard Daly, assistant director of alumni clubs. 
Community service projects, a Miami pep rally/game watch, and family mass are also planned for the Holiday Host program. 
Hegistration forms for stu­dents will be available in the dining halls today through Fri­day. 
The free phone calls originally planned were, however, cancelled due to lack of finan­cial sponsorship, Daly said. 
The holiday brunch involves matching gruuiJS of students with faculty, staff, or alumni families for Thanksgiving meal. 
On Friday, Nov. 24, students will be asked to give back to the community by volunteering lor service projects. 
The St. Joe Care Center, Cen­ter for the Homeless, and the !lope Hescue Mission are three of the eight agencies that have been contacted about the pro­gram. 
Students, faculty, and alumni will be matched to an agency after completing registration forms. 
"Our whole philosophy is that we're trying to get students and alumni involved," Daly said. 
A game watch touted as the largest in Notre Dame history is planned for Saturday, Nov. 
25. Over 1000 people are needed for the event, Daly said. 
A 25-foot television screen will be set up in the basketball stadium of the JACC. 
Family mass of Thanksgiving has been planned for Sunday, Nov. 26. 
"We want (the Holiday Host program) to be an on-going event," Daly said. 
Over 6000 alumni in the St. Joe Valley area have been noti­fied of the event, which puts the possible total involvement in the program at 14,000, Daly said. 
Three-thousand faculty and staff, 1000 undergraduates, and 2800 graduate students 

are expected to be in the area over the holiday, he said. 
Undergraduate and graduate students qualify for the pro­gram. 
At least two students will be matched to a home, but Daly said he hopes larger groups can be accommodated to make the dinner more comfortable. 
Daly said that special re­quests and religious prefer­ences will be granted. 
"It is imperative if they want to participate in any of the events they must return the form," he said. 
The program is sponsored by the Year of the Family, the Alumni Association, and the St. Joe Valley Alumni Association. The Athletic Association, Center for Social Concerns, and Cam­pus Ministry are also involved, Daly said. 
"I don't think there's a de­partment (on campus) that hasn't been involved in some way or another," he said. 

Concentration In Gender Studies Serle& 
Gender and Families Michaei Lamb 
Chief, Section on Social and Emotional Development, U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services 
The Changing Roles of Fathers 
1969-90 Fcfl"IIY e
Wed., Nov.l, 1989 yedofth8ofi"JofreDcfl" 4:15PM • • uoW•.,ny I Annenberg Auditonum, Invited· Snile Museum of Art n~one'S • 
eve·, 
Call to Peacemaking Week November 5-10 Opening Event 
The Way of Nonviolence: 
"On Earth As It Is In Heaven" 

A RETREAT with Tom Cordaro 
BY PAX CHRISTI-NO Sunday, November 5, 1989 2:(X)-7:00 P.M. Center for Social Concerns 
page 3 

Carrier accident aftermath AP Photo Navy crash investigators sift through jet aircraft wreckage Mon­day on the flight deck of the aircraft carrier USS Lexington after 5 died as a result of a crash Sunday. 


'Devil's Night' in Detroit 
I 
marked by arson, arrests 
DETHOIT (AP) -Firefighters scrambled from blaze to blaze and police jailed 165 juveniles who ignored a curfew imposed for Devil's Night, the three-day Halloween tradition of setting fires. 
Dozens of blazes flared across the city in trash bins and abandoned buildings, and at least five homes burned Monday night. No one was in­jured. 
By the end of Monday night, the number of blazes had al­ready surpassed the 229 set 



T H E 



HEAl 

Nparent. 
Devils Night is a decades-old tradition, but youths went from soaping windows to arson 
about 10 years ago. 
the Union of The blazes apparently peaked 
Concerned 
in 1984, when firefighters bat­
Scientists tled 808 blazes in the last three days of October. The number of fires has declined steadily since then. 
Penny Thomas blamed Devil's Night revelers for a blaze that flared in an abandoned house next door and destroyed her home Monday night. 
"The house just went to burning in the front and me and my friends, we ran out of the house," Thomas said. 
Fire Capt. Amos Horton said arson that gutted another abandoned house jumped to an occupied home before dawn Tuesday. 
"We don't know what started it or who started it, but some­body definitely started it," Hor­ton said. "When a place is go· ing like this is going, we know it was set." 
last year, said City Councilman Mel Ravitz. 
"We've got to find a way to either re-educate or incarcerate those who engage in this sport," he said. 
Police and firefighters have refused to release a count of the number of blazes since Devil's Night began Sunday. Mayor Coleman Young's office is expected to release fire totals Sunday 
Police arrested 165 youths Monday, bringing the number of juveniles arrested since the 6 
p.m. to 6 a.m. curfew went into effect to 334, said police Sgt. Christopher Buck. The arrests included four for investigation of arson. 
During curfew, police are al· lowed to detain children under age 18 overnight if they are caught on the streets without a 


page 4 The Observer Wednesday, November 1 , 1989 
Summit 
continued from page 1 
Hill, although Senate Demo­
cratic Leader George Mitchell 
said he was not about to re­
scind his criticism that the 
president's policies toward the 
blossoming of democracy in 
Eastern Europe have been too 
"timid." · 
Sen. Alan Simpson, H-Wyo., the GOP's deputy leader, said, "That kind of stuff about being too timid or too cautious bounces off George Bush like a .22-rifle bullet off a tank." 
The summit was jointly an­nounced in Washington and in Moscow, where Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze said the talks between the two leaders were "aimed at allow­ing them to know each other better" and would "contribute to broadening the changes tak­ing place in the Soviet-American relationship." 
Much of the planning ap­peared still to be done. 
White House chief of staff John Sununu, asked what coun­try Bush would use as the stag­ing area for the talks, said, "We don't know yet." However, sources suggested that Naples, Italy, a major seaport, was the most likely area. 

Reforms 
continued from page 1 
achievements of mankind. For 
example, we are on the road to 
implement the conception of the 
separation of powers within the 
political sphere because it is a 
necessary step on the road to 
build a real legal state." 
Zabigailo also said that the reforms will try to restore prestige to the law and to en­courage more people into the profession. "In the recent past the prestige of the legal profes­sion and the prestige of the law was quite low, I'd even say be­low zero," said Zabigailo. 
In order to help remedy this problem, he explained that leg­islative aets have already been drafted that would increase salaries of judges. 
DART 
continued from page 1 
registration procedure makes it hard to meet the requirements of a concentration," said Leege. This is problematic at a univer­sity where many students do in fact pursue concentrations, Leege said. 
Getting into courses may be reduced to "the luck of the draw," said Leege. 
The DART system will not be used in registering for courses in the foreign studies pro­grams, with the exception of a few students studying in Mexico 
City,  according  to  Isabel  
Charles,  director  of  foreign  
studies programs.  

The problem of using DAHT overseas lies in usir.g long dis­tance lines, said Charles. The foreign studies programs will send course selections back to Notre Dame to be entered into the system, as done in the past. 
The sources, insisting on anonymity, also said the most likely U.S. ship for the talks was the cruiser Belknap, the 547-foot long, missile-armed flagship of the Sixth Fleet, based in the Mediterranean. There was speculation Bush would make the ship his head­quarters and spend the night there. 
Officials said they did not know if first ladies Barbara Bush and Haisa Gorbachev would accompany their hus­bands. 
Bush said he decided to meet on a ship so "we can do it without too much fanfare ... where there's a relatively few number of people, not a lot of crush of bodies out there and a chance to put our feet up and talk.... I think it's easy logisti­cally for both sides." 
It will not be the first ship­board summit. 
In August 1941, five months before the United States en­tered World War II, President Franklin D. Roosevelt met with British Prime Minister Winston Churchill aboard a battleship off Newfoundland, Canada, and proclaimed an Atlantic Charter providing for freedom of the seas and leading to the arming of merchant ships. 
Naval mishaps lose men, missles 
NOHFOLK, Va. (AP) -A wave struck a freight elevator on an aircraft carrier as sailors moved missiles from one deck to another early Tuesday, sweeping three men and 38 missiles into the At­lantic Ocean, the Navy said. Two sailors were rescued. 
In the Pacific Ocean, another sailor was missing after being swept off a Navy carrier into rough seas Monday night, a Navy spokesman said Tuesday. 
Navy planes and ships searched through the day for the two sailors from the USS Dwight D. Eisenhower in the Atlantic and the USS Carl Vin­son in the Pacific. The accidents aboard the Vinson 620 miles north of Wake Island and on the Eisenhower 90 miles south­east of Cape Hatteras, N.C., were the third and fourth acci­dents on Navy ships in three days. 
The accident aboard the Eisenhower occurred at 1:15 
a.m. during routine operations, the Navy said in a news release. 
The two sailors were rescued about an hour later. One was in serious condition and the other was in good condition, said Lt. 
j.g. Karl Johnson, an Atlantic pending notification of rela­tives. 

Eighteen Sparrow and 20 Sidewinder missiles went down in the deep water, but the non­nuclear, air-to-air missiles posed no risk, the Navy said. 
"They were not nuclear-pow­ered. They were not armed," said another spokesman, Se­nior Chief Petty Officer Cindy Adams. "Therefore, they're harmless." 
The sailors were knocked overboard by a wave while they moved the missiles and other 
ordnance and gear from the flight deck down to the hangar 
Length: 140.0-145.0 in. 
Fin span: 39.0-40.0 in. 
Launch weight:310-5031bs. 
Speed: Mach 4.0 
Range: 5-62 miles 
Tracking: Radar 
Source: Jane"s Weapon Systems. 
,. . Modern Airborne Missiles .. .. . ·..· . ,.., ,, ,, .: 
Fleet spokesman. They were being treated aboard ship, he said. 
One was pulled from the ocean by helicopter and the other by boat, Johnson said. Their names and that of the missing sailor were withheld deck. 
The sailors were on an eleva­tor even with the hangar deck, about 20 to 30 feet above the water line, when the wave' hit, said Johnson. The ship reported that it was raining and waves were running 4 to 8 feet at the time, he said. 
Johnson said he did not know the value of the missiles. 
Joining in the search for the missing sailor was the de­stroyer USS Dewey and the guided missile frigate USS Carr, as well as aircraft from the carrier, Johnson said. 




When you start your career, there's nothing like initial success. 
-
====­:~===;:--_ -=-® 

Exciting opportunities exist at IBM! 
IBM is recruiting 1989I 1990 graduates for open­ings in Programming, Math (W/CS options), MIS, Engineering and Technical Sales (BS/MS). 
Meet with IBM Managers At Our Career Information Day Tuesday, November 7, 1989 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame Room 12:00 noon-5:00pm 
There is no formal presentation, so feel free to stop by anytime during the event. Please bring 4 copies of your data sheet/resume and transcript, if avail­able. Dress is casual. 
An equal opportunity employer 

Wednesday, November 1, 1989 The Observer page 5 

NO's Bernardo Garcia 
Domestic flight smoking banned
elected president of HNBA 
in the field at Yale University. He received community service awards while living in Los An­geles and served in the Peace Corps in Guatemala in the summer of 1988. He is presi­dent of the Social Justice Fo­rum in the Notre Dame Law School and a scholar in the 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The House voted Tuesday to ban smoking aboard virtually all domestic airline flights, a toughening of restrictions that tobacco supporters proved un­able to head off. 
"Today, millions of Ameri­cans who have lost loved ones cal year that began Oct. 1, and $3.2 billion for anti-drug ef­forts. 
Lawmakers adopted the smoking ban language on a voice vote and planned to finish work on the overall bill Wednesday. The Senate must consider the measure before of­widespread but mistaken im­pression that just banning smoking is the sole and com­plete solution to the cabin air quality problem," said Rep. Tom DeLay, R-Texas. 
The House voted 259-169 on Aug. 2 to make permanent the ban on smoking on flights last­ing two hours or less. On Sept. 14, the Senate voted 77-21 to end delaying tactics by law­makers trying to block a per­manent ban on all flights. The version considered Tuesday was a compromise. 
With such strong votes against them, tobacco lobbyists said it made little sense to fight. 
"There are other issues that will come up that are at least as important," said Walker Merryman, spokesman for the Tobacco Institute, the cigarette industry's trade group. "We'll just keep our powder dry." 
The tobacco industry has been focusing its energy on avoiding an increase in the ex­cise tax on cigarettes, and on fighting off new restrictions on advertising. 
Durbin and his allies have ar­gued that non-smokers can get cancer and lung and respira­tory diseases by breathing ci­garette smoke. They have been backed by a legion of health as­sociations and unions repre­senting airline employees. 
Under current law, cigarette smoking is forbidden on do­mestic flights lasting two hours or less, a ban. covering four­fifths of all routes. It is due to expire in April. 
The broader prohibition will take effect 96 days after it is signed into law. 

Special to The Observer 
Bernardo Garcia, a second­year law student at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame Law School, has been elected president of the Hispanic National Bar As­sociation (HNBA) Student Divi­sion. 
The organization, which met recently in Washington, D.C., covers all of the law schools in the United States and has the purpose of encouraging His­panic law students to take leadership roles on issues af­fecting the Hispanic community. 
Garcia, 25, has an under­graduate degree in economics from the University of Southern California and earned an M.A. 
..,. 



STIID~ 
~~:ter the Air Force ~ immediately after gradua­
tion-without waiting for the results of your State Boards. You can earn great benefits as an Air Force nurse officer. And if selected during your senior year, you may qualify for a five-month internship at a major Air Force medical facili­ty. To apply, you'll need an overall 
2.50 GPA. Get a head start in the Air Force. Call 
USAF HEALTH PROFESSIONS 
317-848-5830 
COLLECT 
The Center for Social Concerns 
~ __________u_n_iv_e_r_s_it_y_o_f_N_o---,tre Dame 
1 

CALENDAR OF EVENTS 
(FORINFORMATION:239-5293) NOTE: Events will be held at the Center for Social Concerns, unless otherwise noted. 
Nov.1 _Wednesday


A... 
7:00-11:00 p.m. 
Nov. 2-Thursday 7:00-11 :00 p.m. 
Nov. 4-Saturday 
Nov.5-Sunday 2:30-4:30 p.m. 
Nov. 5-11 
Nov. 9-Thursday 11 :30 a.m.-1 :00 p.m. 
Nov. 10 ·Friday 12:15-1:00 p.m. 
Nov. 15-Wednesday 4:30p.m. 
Nov. 16-Thursday 8:00 a.m.-1 :00 p.m. 4:30p.m. 
Nov. 30 -Thursday 11:30 a.m.-1 :00 p.m. 
Dec. 12 -Sunday 7:00p.m. 
Dec. 15 -Wednesday 3:00-5:00 p.m. 

Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government. 
The secretariat of the HNBA Student Division will be located at Notre Dame during Garcia's presidency, as is that of the HNBA Lawyers' Division, which is headed by Jimmy Gurule, who joined the Notre Dame Law School faculty as an associate professor this fall. 
from tobacco-related diseases are the real winners," said bill sponsor Rep. Richard Durbin, D-Ill. 
The provision forbids ci­garette smoking on all flights within the continental United States, and on all routes to and from Alaska and Hawaii sched­uled for six hours or less. 
The airline industry says there are 17,500 daily domestic flights. Durbin said 24 flights to Alaska and Hawaii and four to Guam would not be covered. 
The prohibition was part of a compromise House-Senate bill providing $12 billion for trans­portation programs for the fis-
Appalachian Seminar Follow-up 
Washington Seminar Follow-up 
CSC Alumni Reunion -Following Navy Game 
Urban Plunge Orientation Workshop (Hesburgh Ubrary Auditorium) Call to Peacemaking Week (See Below) Hospitality Lunch -Sponsored by American Indian Group 
Friday Forum (for faculty and staff) "The Power of the Family: What Systems Theory Teaches Us"-William ""(ageson, Psychology Department 
Community Service Commissioners Meeting 
esc Advisory Board Community Service Commissioners Meeting 
Hospitality Lunch -Sponsored by Women United for Justice and Peace 
Summer Service Project Information Meeting 
CSC Open House 
fering it to President Bush, who is expected to sign it. 
Tobacco-state lawmakers and other opponents of the smoking ban, realizing they were badly outnumbered, of­fered little resistance. 
Opponents largely confined their remarks to complaints that Congress should have waited for a Department of Transportation study of airline cabin air quality, due early next year. Tobacco supporters have argued that cigarette smoke is but one pollutant in cabin air, which is recirculated in flight. 
"The fervor surrounding this issue has created the 
To Liz: 
Happy 

20th Birthday! 

Love, Mom&Dad 
SERVICE AND SOCIAL ACTION OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE FALL SEMESTER 
FOOD BASKETS: An excellent way to recognize this as The Year of the Family is to adopt a South Bend 
family. Adopting a family means providing them with a Thanksgiving or Christmas Basket. Groups can be matched with a family by the 
Salvation Army. By contacting Sue Jones at the number below, information will be provided along with guidelines on what should be Included In the food baskets. CONTACT: Sue Jones 233·9471 
(Salvation Army) 
TUTORS NEEDED: 
Individual tutors have been requested by a number of middle and high school students who are at risk of dropping out of school. We are also looking for several tutors for adults who are studying for their high school equivalency exam. Tutors will be matched with students by Patty Flynn at the Center for Social Concerns. Arrangements can then be made between the student and the tutor. This kind of tutoring generally requires three to four hours per weak. 
Also needed Is a group of students to work on campus on either Tuesday or Thursday evening to tulor high school sophomores from Washington High School who are participating In a special program for at risk students. No transportation is required. CONTACT: Patty Flynn 239-5293 
(CSC) 
NOTE: These special opportunities are available now In addition to a variety of openings In programs conducted by 30 Center-
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED: Prairie Vista School, Granger, is offering a Christmas Shopping Day for their 
students. They need volunteers to go to the school on Saturday, December II, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Volunteers would help 
young children select and wrap Christmas gifts for their families. The school gymnasium will be converted to a shipping cenler for the day. CONTACT: Anna Pickering 277-2468 
United Health Services' program for Adult Deaf people asks for volunteers to work at WNDU studio to type closed captioned news any afternoon from 3:30-5 p.m. or 8:30 ­10 p.m. CONTACT: Barb Wade 234-3136 
A big brother is needed for a seriously disabled 21 year old, terminally ill and mildly retarded. CONTACT: Ruth Szyarto 236-5329 
A big brother Is needed for a brain injured 16 year old boy. CONTACT: Bob Epping 272-3113 
Three big sisters are needed for three little girls (ages 9, 8, 7) In a single-parent family. CONTACT: John Monczunskl 
affiliated service and social action groups In which some 1,300 students currently participate. 

CALL TO PEACEMAKING WEEK  7:00p.m.  Environmental Action Club and Institute for lntematlonal Peace Studies - 
"The Heat Is On" · Panel Discussion with Howard Rls, Director, Union  
of Concerned Scientists -at Theodore's.  
Sunday, Nov.S: 2:00·7:00 p.m.  Pax Christi Retreat with Tom Cordaro, Pax Christl national stall. Theme: "The Way of Nonviolence: On Earth as It Is In Heaven." OPEN TO lHE PUBliC  Thursday, Nov. 9: 6:30p.m.  CILA Reflections on Mexico  
7:00p.m.  Women United for Justice and Peace -"Take Back the Nlghr  

Amnesty International -Panel Discussion with International Students: "They Shoot Students • Don't They?" Friday, Nov. 1O: Anti-Apartheid Network 
12:15 p.m. · Rally 

Wednesday, Nov. B: Overseas Development Network • Afternoon race · "The Heat is On: 4:00p.m. to 24-hour VIgil · ·Day of Mourning, Day of Hope• Race lor Peace," followed by dinner at CSC. 4:00 p.m. Saturday 
page 6 The Observer Wednesday, November 1, 1 aQa 
Bush, Congress agree to 


Class 
continued from page 11
increase minimum wage 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -The Bush administration reached agreement with Democratic congressional leaders Tuesday on a plan to raise the minimum wage to $4.25 an hour by April 1991, the first increase since 1981. 
The agreement for a 90-cent­an-hour increase over the next 17 months also provides for an unprecedented subminimum "training wage" that could be paid to teen-agers with little work experience. It would be pegged at 85 percent of the prevailing minimum wage. 
The House is expected to vote Wednesday on the compromise, designed to end a lengthy and often bitter partisan battle that pitted Democratic congres­sional leaders and organized labor against two successive Hepublican administrations as well as business interests. President Bush vetoed an ear­lier bill and was sustained in the House. 
"No side will get a victory for this," said Rep. Augustus Hawkins, 0-Calif., chairman of the House Education and Labor Committee. "We didn't want the training wage to begin with, but we wanted to depoliticize the thing." 
In a written statement, Bush said he was pleased by the compromise, saying it met the criteria he set earlier in the year, including the lower train­ing wage. 
"This package offers the promise of better wages for the working men and women of this country and gives incen­tives to create new jobs for our young people," he said. 
Sen. Edward Kennedy, D­Mass., chairman of the Senate Labor Committee, said the minimum wage would already be $4.79 an hour if adjusted to account for inflation since 1981. 
"That is the measure of how far we have failed the test of fairness to the working poor," he said. "Our only answer to them is that this is the best compromise we can get from an administration that wanted to give them even less." 
Congressional sources said the compromise was crafted after the White House last week indicated for the first time it would give ground. Several House Democrats prominent in past minimum-wage fights complained they were not con­sulted by the leadership, but Speaker Thomas Foley said they were. Some Democrats said Foley conceded too much. 
But they agreed to the deal, which was being drafted Tues­day and, barring unexpected disagreements over language, will be presented to the House on Wednesday as a substitute to a Democratic bill scheduled for a vote. Senate passage is expected to follow shortly. 
Once signed by Bush, the leg­islation would trigger a 45-cent increase in the minimum wage on April I, to $3.80 an hour, with the jump to $4.25 coming a year later. The last increase in the minimum wage came in January 1981, when it in­creased from $2.65 an hour to the current $3.35. 
The new subminimum, which could be paid to workers 16-19 years old for three months, and up to six months in some cases, would be 85 percent of the minimum wage. 
Democrats and union leaders long have considered such a "training wage" unacceptable. However, it became clear that agreeing to the provision was the only way to win a general increase 
.................................... 
TOP 10 QUOTES FROM D.C. ROAD TRIP... 
1. 
IRISH CATHOLIC MIDWEST CHICKS 

2. 
CHEESE ART I DUCK LIPS. 

3. 
WHY ARE YOU STANDING IN THE CORNER? 

4. 
I'D RATHER GO WITH 4 BABES THAN MY PARENTS. 

5. 
YOU 2 SHOULD GIVE GUYS A SECOND CHANCE. 

6. 
MY NAME IS INGO MONTOYA. YOU KILLED MY FATHER. PREPARE TO DIE. 

7. 
YOU CAN LEAVE YOUR HAT ON... 

8. 
I DON'T THINK THERE 'SA SINGLE GUY IN THE SENIOR CLASS WHO'S NOT AVAILABLE. 

9. 
SHE'S HAVING TROUBLE BECAUSE SHE DOESN'T HAVE A FRIEND IN THERE. 

10. 
WALLY. WE REALLY DO LOVE YOU!I 


···································· 
The Model United Nations meeting scheduled for Thursday. Nov. 2. has been changed to Thursday. Nov. 16. 

Question: How do you reach over 12,000 people daily? 
Answer: Buy Observer ad space. The Observer 
Join 
Call 239-6900. 


''Imay be an art major,butlknow alittle somethingabout economics." 


You've doneyour home­work. You know where the best values are. You also know that withAT&T, it costs less than most people think to stay in touch with your family and friends. 
In fact, you can make a 10-minute, coast-to-coast call any time, any day, for less than $3.00 with A1&T*And who else can promise imme­diate credit for wrong num­bers, the fastest connections, and the largest worldwide long distance network? 
Nobody but AT&T 
For more information on AT&T Long Distance Products and Services, like the AT&T Card, call I 800 525-7955, Ext. 100. 
*Add applicable taxe' and MlfcharRCS. 



AT&T 
The right choice. 
Chris Kmetz: Congratulations for Happy Halloween to my favorite
HESBURGH PROGRAM 
solving today's Diff Eq Hangman witch, Hazel! You have a magical
SPEAKER SERIES 
Puzzle in less than 5 seconds I effect on me. you know.
"Doing Public Service Through 
0 AL E Love Always. R.
Electoral Politics," Tim Roemer, 
GoodluckOnthe Pipe Organ When are we going to do it? 
Cadidate for U.S. Congress and 
problem!
former assistant to Senator 
-------------------------------------CLUB 23 Stop by for Amiable
DeConcini. LIBRARY 
Congratulations TOM CARAVATI atmosphere, daily & weekly
LOUNGE ?PM TONIGHT !!!It hasn't just been the football team that has been on top of 
TAKE A BREAK­Come the the GORCHGAMESROOM in LaFortune. We've got much more room for you! HE LOOKS LIKE BIG BOY, HE 'S THE JOHN HOLMES OF ------------------------------------NOTRE DAME. 
Get your HE COULD CHOREOGRAPH ND PONCHO ERASURE VIDEOS, before~ rains! HE'S TOMMY TUNAl 
Great to stuff in your backpack for HEY FISHER GET OFF YOUR school. Only $2.50 at ROOMMATE AND WISH TOM 
specials, pool table. English darts. and great company. 234-3541 
HiAg! 
To the SMUCS in 349 LeMans: I love you all (or at least I'd like to!) 
love. 
ESPO 
...................................... 
NOTRE DAME ... Academic Excellence 
the Information Desk in CARAVATI A HAPPY BIRTHDAY' NOTRE DAME ... LaFortune. HE'D LIKE THAT. Athletic Prowess -------------------------------------HAPPY BIRTHDAY TOM 
DILLON NIGHT AT THE MOVIES FROM GOOCH. J.T. . MUSH, Be on the lookout for the classiest FISH,CABS. MICHELLE, T-shirt on campus. Coming to a -FRIDAY-WEASEL, MARGARET, MEG, dining hall near you! (or call x1634 
9:00 Who Framed Roger Rabbit? AND RAMONE. for details) 
,.. ...................................
11 :30 The 'Burbs ------------------------------------­
HAPPY (Belated) BIRTHDAY to (students from) Pitt lately. Caravati -SATURDAY-Joe Herman. one of the all-time is the new Irish Rocket­
9.00 Major League greatest roommates and all-unfortunately, it's his target that is 
11 :30 Rain Man around cool dudes. May all your engaged! HappyB-Day DUDE. wishes befall you soon, Joe! Love-The Lover of the Fish. the 
In the Dillon Party Room Sincerely, Volleyball Stud, Gooch the Tainted. They're FREE-so don't miss 'em I Your Roomies and Brian King the Immaculate. 

-------~--~--~~ 
Wednesday, November 1, 1989 The Observer 
SAN SALVADOR, El Sal~ vador (AP) -A bomb ex~ plosion wrecked a leftist union hall in the capital Tuesday, killing eight people and wounding at least 30, including two Americans. 
The devastating explosion rocked the National Federa­tion of Salvadoran Workers, or FENASTRAS, union hall at 12:30 p.m., hours after a bombing at the offices of Co­madres, a human rights group. 
Journalists who reached the scene in downtown San Salvador counted six man­gled bodies in the rubble of the FENASTRAS building. A Rosales Hospital spokesman said a union leader and a girl died while undergoing surgery. 
The blast toppled concrete pillars, twisted girders and destroyed almost the entire roof of the building, in the heart of the capital, two blocks from the National Police headquarters and four blocks from the Metropoli­tan Cathedral. 
Federation Secretary-Gen­eral Gerardo Diaz and two 
U.S. citizens -Mark Anner 
of Conn~i~icut ~nd Brend Hubbat4 of. Los Angeles were among the wounded. 
The Comadres bomb explo­sion slightly wounded (Ql!J".,.,IiiFpeople. · · ····~~ 
Both organizations~ are considered guerrilla fronts by the rightist government. Leaders of the two organi­zations accused the arme~''''ili''"····Sept. 5 wi'h an 
forces of responsibility •. The ··Y rocket that damaged ·'*'1;;.""""''''''''1 armed forces rejected the building's facade but allegation. 1:iii![flicted no casualties, 
The bombings were the ·;·;, Hector Recinos, a mE!mliJei' ' I 
latest flare up of violence in ·· ~····of FENASTRAS' El Savaldor's decad¢·old blamed the army for civU war that has killed more day~s attack; "This is< than 70,000 people, most of sponse to tbe attack them civilians. A rebel mor-.) .. JointChiefs," he said, tat attack on 1he· Defense ,;l!1l!tring'o a rebel assault Ministry in San Salvador on ·······Defense Ministry. 
Monday killed one person ,, .. ~e .•.~~ldt.~e .bomb and injured 15. · · · ntl¥ ·was thrown Hospital authoritie en-passing vehicle. tified one victim who died The earlier bomb attack 
there as Febe Velasquez', member of the FENASTRAS directorate. The other was an unidentified teen-age girl. 
At least four more people were in critical condition, they said. 
Hospital authorities said admittance forms were filled out for 27 but 
at the downtown head-·· quarters of Comadres, a left­ist organization grouping "disappeared people" and political prisoners. Four people were injured, includ­ing a U.S. citizen, none seri· ously. . There was no clmm of re· 
'! sponsibility for the attack. · 
DART REGISTRATION UPDATE 
0273ARSr S043 C011I 0990ECON 1011 ECON smEE 1398 FIN 5236 FIN 5001GB 1548G0Vf S172 GOVf S181 GOVf S187G0Vf S188GOVf Sl!IOGOVf 1639 HIST 1637HIST SOlS HIST S166MARK 1942MADI 1943MADI 1881 MADI 1944MADI 1973MBA 1984MBA 2016MB 2063MGT 2815 PSY 2816 PSY 5410 PSY 2137ROPR 5216 ROPR 2263 ROSP .5041 ROSP S22S ROSP 3183SOC 5140 soc 3194 soc SJ16SOC 319SSOC 3196 soc 3197SOC 3198 soc 3199SOC 3201 soc 3202SOC 320S SlV 3218 SlV S119TIIBO 32S6TIIBO 
2015 ME 
SS41 EB .5S63 EB SS6S EB SS66 EE SSJliiPS SS321IPS SS48LAW SS47MBA 
SSUMBA 
SS46MBA 
SSSJMBA 
SSSl MBA 
SSSOMBA 
5540MB 
SSS6MSA 
SS3S MSA 
SSS7MSA 
SS33 MSA 
SS34 MSA 
SSS8 MSA 
SSJ6MSA 
SS60MSA 
SS37MSA 
SS61MSO 
SS62MSO 
SSS9 PIDL 
SSJS PHYS 
ssrr PSY 
SS28 PSY 
SS44 PSY 
SS29 PSY 
SSS4 soc 
SSJOSOC 
SS39 SlV 
SS(STiffiO 
326S 413 
lSO 
411 SSl 476 480 106 670 42S S33 615 647 
615 
699 
69S 
397 
391 
698 
699 
166 
700 
636 
66SB 342 240 342L 342L 481 222F 222F 493 202 319 
Sl2C 
303 6S4 543 6S4 6S4 6S4 6S4 6S4 6S4 6S4 204 
400 
596 
221 
340 
361L 498B 698B S99R 
460 
S«J 619 615 616 617 
642 
64S 
691 
321 
.543 
541 
~ ~ 
S67 
S67 
6J9 
671 
61!0 
212 
2U 
407 
309 
599 
599 
611 694 6S4 702 22S 
S98C 
CHANGED COURSES 

01  
01  Theatre Sil>ce 1100  
01  lAbor Ecoaomks  
01  m 2:4S­4:00  
01  m 1:15­2:30  
01  MW 3:2S ­4:40  
01  
01  MWP11:15 ­12:05  
01  m 1:15-2:0S  
01  m 1:15­:z:os  
01  M S:30 ­8:00 p.m.  
01  Werp/Amcr Politics  
01  w 5:30 ­8:00 p.m.  
01  m tL-oo -12:15  
01  
01  
01  MW 11:15 ­12:30  
01  
01  
01  
01  
01  
02  
01  
04  m 1:15-2:30  
01  m 1:15­2:30  
02  m 2:4S-4:00  
01  MWP 12:15 • L-QS  
01  
02  
01  m 2:4S­4:00  
01  MWP 1:15 ­2.-QS  
01  m tL-oo • 12:15  
01  
01  Stall/ProlcssioDal  
01  
01  p 4:15-6:4S  
02  
03  
04  
OS  
06  
07  
08  
01  TUIIC Clwlge Til 1:15 -2:30  
01  <lwl&e Credit Hours 1.0  
01  p 9-.30 -12:00  
01  

Prereqwme Deleted 
ntJc ClwJ&e
ntJc Clwl&e 
TIDIC ClwJ&e 
TIDIC ClwJ&e 

Added 1'1aoqui1i1c: FIN 231 or BA 230 or MGT 230 
TIDIC ClwJ&e 
TIDIC ClwJ&e 
TIDIC ClwJ&e 
TIDIC ClwJ&e
ntJc Cbaa&e 
lime ClwJ&e 
TIDIC ClwJ&e Cftdil HOlliS Variable Cftdil Howl Variable 
TIDIC ClwJ&e 

Add PRRquislc: Permission Only 
Mu Sludcnll Chan&«~ 10 40 
Mu Sludcull Chanplto 40 
Conul CaD Number ill Boot 
Mu Sludcllll Chanplto 40 
~WasDdclccl 
ClwJ&e to MBA 67SB 
Pcrmissioa Tatca oa 
TUDe ClwJ&e 
TIDIC ClwJ&e 
TIIDC ClwJ&e 
TIIDC ClwJ&e 

Added Prerequisite: ROPR 221P 
Added Prerequisite: ROPR 221P 
TIIDC Cbao&e TIIDC ClwJ&e TIIDC ClwJ&e ClwJ&e to SOC SUB 01 T111c Clwl&e 
Soc Grad Sludcuts Only 

Soc Chad SludcDts Only Soc Chad SludcDts Only Soc Gtad SludcDts Only Soc Chad SludcDts Ollly Soc Gtad Sludcuts ODiy Soc Grad SludcDts Only Soc Grad Sludcuts ODiyClwJ&e C.O.. Us! with PHYS 204 
Mu Sludcul Clwlgccllo 70 
CANCELLED COURSES 

02 CaDcclled 
ADDED COURSES 

06 Microc:anpulcr i.Abolllloly 0.0 01 Opcralia&: System Daip 3.0 01 AciYIIIocd Dillribulccl Compulia&: 3.0 17 Tbclk I>il'cclbl v 01 Phil o1 Ed: ll4, Aulh .1: Demo 3.0 01 Phil ol Ed: ll4, Aulh .1: Demo 3.0 01 Blhlc& Scmioar 2.0 01 I.Diallalloaal AccowlliDc 3.0 
01 AciYIIIocd Tucs 3.0 
01 AciYIIIocd Aadilia&: 3.0 
01 Na!Uiia&: ltacan:b 3.0 
01 Adw:rliliD& 3.0 
01 Real &late 3.0 01 Dilf Equalioas .t Applied 1\blll 3.0 01 NuteliD&: for NPP Maoqen 3.0 01 I.Dbo lo Slalillical RcuoDiDc 3.0 02 JlbDI&aia1 Ski1ll 3.0 01 JlbDI&aia1 Ski1ll 3.0 01 Dccilioa MakiD& 3.0 02 Dccilioa MakiD& 3.0 01 MaDaM 1.<J111 Tctm Cue Pacililics 3.0 01 Dircc:lccl R.cadiap v 01 AdmiDlsiialiYc Policr 3.0 06 Appliccl Lcaclcrship n 2.0 
07 Applied Lcaclcrship n 2.0 
01 Dcscuta 3.0 01 DevdopmcDI ol Ph,s Theories 3.0 
26 Tbclk Dirc<:lioa v rr Thcsil I>il'cclbl v 01 SlnM:lural Bquatiolll Models 3.0 rr llcac1iD& Special Topics v 09 Dircc:lccl Readings v 01 TcochiDJ Prlclicum 3.0 01 Scielllific PC!SpCCiiw oa HUIII 3.0 01 Dircc:lccl R.cadiap v 
H m  7:00. 10:00 1:15-.2:30  C.O.. Us! EE 581 01  
m  1:15-2:30  
m m  4:15-5:30 4:15­5:30  Permiaioa R<qllirccl PctmiaioD R<qllirccl  
H NWP m 111 NWP m 111  1:00. 2:50 12:15­L-QS 9:30 ·10:4S 2:4S-4:00 9:QS-9-.SS 4:15­5:30 1L-Oil ­12:15  c.o.. Llsii\Jxt 481 01 c.o.. Llsii\Jxt 480 01 c.o.. Usli\Jxt 48S 01 c.o.. Us! Mark 374 01 c.o.. Llsl Mark 492 01 Qoa; Us! P"UI 371 01  
NWP  9:QS-9-.SS  
w  6:15-8:4S  
w  6:15­8:4S  
T  6:15­8:4S  
M  6:15­8:4S  
T  6:16. 8:4S  
H  6:15.  8:4S  
s  8:30. 11:30  
s  8:30-11:30  Taul)llll lllllsbruck, Aus  
will DOl apply to OVERL  
Tauplll AD&eiS, Prance  
will DOl apply to OVERL  
m NWP  9-.30 • 10:4S 11:15 ­12:0S  c.o.. Us! Stv 389 01 c.o.. Us! Phil 389 01  
KW  11:00-12:15  
Soc Grad Sludeuts Only  
NWP  11:15 ­u.-os  c.o.. Us! Phil 22S 01 N. Div Slu4eDls ODiy  

------------~---~--­
page 7 
Coke gives ND $1 million for minority faculty program 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre~ Dame has received a grant of $1 mil­lion from The Coca-Cola Com­pany to establish a minority faculty development program. The grant will fund University efforts to increase minority representation on its faculty, to establish faculty exchange agreements with traditionally black colleges and universities, to facilitate graduate education for minorities and to provide research opportunities for mi­nority undergraduates. 
"This generous grant from The Coca-Cola Company is especially gratifying because it will enable Notre Dame to ad­dress both our immediate and long-term needs for more mi­nority faculty members," said Father Edward Malloy, presi­dent of the University. "Increased minority represen­tation in the academy is, and ought to be, a paramount na­tional concern, and the pro­grams we undertake with the grant will provide support and encouragement to minorities at every stage of preparation for careers in teaching and re­search," he said 
"Business has an important responsibility in the decade ahead," said Roberto Goizueta. 
chairman of the Board and chief executive officer of The Coca-Cola Company. "Corporations must do what they can to assist our educa­tional system in preparing young people for the 21st cen­tury." 
Specifically, the Notre Dame program will indude exchanges of visiting professors each semester between the University and a traditionally black institution and will provide, on the basis of a national competi­tion, two fellowships annually to bring minority graduate stu­dents to the University for their dissertation years and two fel­lowships annually for first-year minority graduate students. The program also will provide research scholarships each summer to two minority under­graduates at Notre Dame to stimulate their interest in graduate education and careers in teaching and research. 
Of the $1 million total grant, $500,000 will be used to fund the first five years' operation of the program and the remaining $500,000 will establish an en­dowment for the program's fu­ture operation. 
The grant will be made through the Coca-Cola Founda­tion, the philanthropic arm of The Coca-Cola Company. 



BUY CLASSIFIEDS 
The Charles and Margaret Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism presents: 
JAMES DONNELLY 
University of Wisconsin-Madison speaking on 
TRADITIONAL POPULAR RELIGION AND ITS DECLINE IN IRELAND, 1700-1850 
Thursday, November 2,.1989 4:15p.m. Room 122, Hayes-Healy Auditorium University of Notre Dame 




$ $ $ $ 

MEDICAL SCHOOL 
WHO WILL PAY YOUR EXPENSES? 
The Navy will, because the Navy has a medical school 
scholarship program for you. So you can devote full 
time to your studies and let the Navy take care of the 
finances. The real benefit to you is that the program 
pays all of your tuition and fees, reimburses you for 
books and supplies and gives you a stipend. Ifyou have 
been accepted to or you are already attending medical 
school, you can start your application for a Navy 
scholarship now. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL NOW ... 
A Navy representative will be at the 
Ploc:emenl Center on Ngyember 7th&, Bth from 6:30a.m. to 4:30p.m. For additional Information call: 
1-600-527-6636 
TWO-, THREE-, AND FOUR-YEAR SCHOLARSHIPS AVAILABLE 
.A'I TV OFFICER You areTomorrow.
Nil.l' I You are the Navy. 


,..-----...--------~--------~~----­
page 8 The Observer Wednesday, November 1 , 1989 

greetings 

CARDS 
Featuring: 
~ itt~ 
)J

cfJ Dale Cards@ 

different kinds of logos, and other designs by "recycled paper products" 
Irish Gardens 
Basement of LaFortune Mon • Sat 12:30 • 5:30pm 
(Closed home football Saturdays) 
ADWORKS 

________________________. 
Viewpoint
Wednesday, November 1, 1989 page 9 


P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chris Donnelly 
Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Reg1s Cocc1a  Rich Iannelli  
Exec. News Editor  Matthew Gallagher  Advertising Manager.  . Molly Killen  
Viewpoint Editor  .Dave Bruner  Ad Design Manager..  . Shannon Roach  
Sports Editor  Theresa Kelly  Production Manager  . Alison Cocks  
Accent Editor  .John Blas1  Systems Mgr.  Bernard Brenninkmeyer  
Photo Editor  Enc Bailey  OTS Director  Angela Bellanca  
Saint Mary's Editor  .. Christme Gill  Controller.  .....Anne L1ndner  

The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi· ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. it does not necessarily reilect the pol­ICies of the adm1n1strat1on of either institution. The news IS reported as accurately and ob­JeCtively as poss1bie Unsigned editonais represent the opinion of the majority of the following: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. Executive News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters, and the inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to ali members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
We must act affirmatively for racial equality 
By Paul A. Peralez 
After eight years of social Darwinism sanctioned by the Reagan administration-a time when scores of civil rights abuses were ignored by the United States Attorney Gen­eral's office, when the nascent conservatism of the Supreme Court dealt serious blows to the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and when many minority Americans, particularly African Americans, fell deeper into poverty-the time has come to reaffirm our commitment to one of the most effective remedies to past injustices against minorities: Affirmative Action. 
Disturbing is the notion that the University of Notre Dame is doing minority students a favor by enforcing affirmative action in its admissions policies and thus needn't heed minority grievances. This "don't bite the hand that feeds you" mentality must not be tolerated. This fact is clear: this university and ev­ery institution of higher educa­tion receiving monies from the federal government is not doing a "favor" for minority stu­dents-they are fulfilling a legal and a moral obligation. 
Affirmative action is the most effective and just way for rectifying the gross inequities of the past. After being stabbed in the back by callous and inhuman oppressors, removing the knife is not enough; there still remains a wound to be dressed and a body to be healed. It is patently malicious to admit minorities into Notre Dame only to stigmatize them as "tokens." 
Why the beneficiaries of af­firmative action are stigmatized is incomprehensible to me. This nation has a history of aiding the debilitated. The Marshall Plan expended millions of 
DOONESBURY 
H&Y, ACe/ I THOUGHT W&60T/l.IP OF YOUl 
/ 
American dollars to recon­struct a war-ravaged Europe after World War II, millions more were spent to rebuild Japan after the same war, the GI Bill of Rights helped to sub­sidize the education and homes of our nation's veterans. Simi­larly, affirmative action is helping to rehabilitate those crippled by injury inflicted by 
the United States. 
A critical understanding of American history is necessary to appreciate the necessity for affirmative action. The more than 250 years of black slavery in America is the most despica­ble, injurious, and inhuman epoch in the history of the world. The plight of no people can compare in severity to that of the millions of Africans kid­napped from their homeland, their bodies exploited, their minds manipulated, and sense of dignity so confounded that their effects are felt by this present generation. 
These effects are manifested in the disproportionately high homicide rates in this nation's African American communities, disproportionately high teen­age pregnancy, and dispropor­tionately high drop-out rates from American schools. This latter case is a compelling ex­ample of the dispiriting sense of inferiority that many black youth feel. Not uncommon is for young African Americans, particularly those in the inner cities, to describe a promising black scholar as "trying to be like the whites." 
Indeed, to many minority children, the school is perceived as a white institution. The tangible impact of this perception is exacerbated by the racism that actually does exist in our societal institutions. To blame blacks for their plight is analogous to blaming a woman for being raped; "conservatives" are no­torious for blaming the victims. The raping of Mother Africa and its far-reaching conse­quences is not the fault of 
African Americans. 
I reject the assertion that this nation is one with equal oppor­tunity for all and thus affirma­tive action is unfair and unnec­essary. Equal opportunity is not enough. "With equal oppor­tunity," wrote Martin Luther King, "must come the practical, realistic aid which will equip (minorities) to seize it. Giving a pair of shoes to a man who has not learned to walk is a cruel jest." Certainly, there are many successful American minorities. However, for every one success­ful American minority, thou­sands more languish in poverty and ignorance. 
Equal opportunity is not enough when blacks and Hispanics suffer the most baneful economic and social conditions in the nation. Again, they must not be blamed for their plight. Their condition is not a result of their being black or Hispanic; it is a result of their being black or Hispanic in a nation which has abused them and which has underesti­mated their potential. 
College students are particu­larly impacted by affirmative action since universities invari­ably ascribe to it. White stu­dents must rid themselves to the notion that they are making sacrifices for minorities. Collec­tively, this generation, both black and white, is making sac­rifices for the next generation. By actively enforcing affirma­tive action and giving minority students preferential treatment in light of the past injustices, there is hope that affirmative action will be rendered nuga­tory. 
Affirmative action has been a policy for only twenty-five years. We mustn't retreat from this bold initiative before its positive effects can be· felt. With continued enforcement there is hope that more children in the next generation or minonty posterity will be born into a strong and prosperous household. 
Affirmative action should be given a new and more individual perspective. No longer should we perceive affirmative action as an exclusive concerns of our governments and of our corporations. Each of us should pursue "affirmative ac­tion" in our relationships with African American students-not because they were an op­pressed peoples and not be­cause they are the descendants of ancient and glorious civiliza­tions, but because they are hu­mans and must be accorded the respect that human dignity de­mands. 
This individual "affirmative action" includes a conscious attempt to socialize and intellectualize with African American and minority stu­dents. Our Jives and the life of our nation will thus be much improved. 
Paul Peralez is a student in the Freshman Year of Studies 
LETTERS 
Strict religious views feed prejudices 
Dear Editor: then his actions would be dis­
I was startled to read Keith criminatory. The last time I McKeon's letter to the editor checked, discrimination was il­and find out that one must be a legal and socially unacceptable. Christian to attend Notre From his letter, it appears that Dame. (The Observer, Oct. 18). Mr. McKeon does not feel this Somehow he came to the way. conclusion that Notre Dame was created solely for those of It seems incredible that at a the Christian faith, and all school supposedly made up of others have the choice of either an intelligent and educated stu­suffering or attending school dent body, there are people somewhere else. with such narrow and intoler­
It seems that he attacks ho­ant views. Although I am not a mosexuals because they are in homosexual. I feel that the the minority and go against his Notre Dame community should religious beliefs. I wonder if he be supportive of homosexuals feels the same way about athe­and other groups who may not ists and Jews? Mr. McKeon's necessarily agree with Christian view that his Christian beliefs ideals, but still are a part of the are the correct beliefs and Notre Dame community. For those that oppose his are in­Mr. McKeon's sake, I hope that correct or lesser beliefs sounds if he is ever in a situation where a lot like prejudice to me. he is a minority, that those in 
the majority are more accepting 
Furthermore, if he actually of alternate beliefs than he is. 
acts on his view that "God says 
no, and Christians should Michael Co/bach 
obey," in reference to beliefs Stanford Hall 
contrary to Christian beliefs, Oct. 17, 1989 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

YOU'R& 5UPPO'SW 
7D f3C 8.40< ON YOUR 
YOU'RE 
IJAMN,THIS

FIZT TH&5e I?AY~/ 
I fAJ/5H. 
THOf.EHT
KIOO/N6. 
01513A9t/5

ANOYi UIHATGIV/3$~ I GOT 
YOU'D 5fZN
CONFOUNOIN6/

I A8U~W 
ITAU/
/
ARM. ANI? 

OION'T Tt1JO BROK&/11 
I 
YOU? 
~8'3. 
\
\ 
'The way of the world is to praise dead saints and to persecute living ones.' 
Nathaniel Howe 

Accent
page 10 Wednesday, November 1, 1989 
NEW RELEASES 
From the B-52's... 
(AP)-Ten years after crashing the world's party with the zany Hock Lobster, the B­52s remain intaet as-im­probably enough -a hardy band of survivors. 
This band of Georgian bohemians transplanted to New York survived the death of instrumentalist Hicky Wilson and emerged with Cosmic Thing, this year's comeback LP. 
Cosmic Thing is an amiable collection of danceable rock tunes anchored, as usual, by Fred Schneider's deadpan voeals and the more aceomplished singing of Cindy Wilson and Kate Pierson. 
At their best, the B-52s sound like they're inviting listeners to a real cool private party where everyone's a friend. "Deadbeat Club" and "Love Shack," two of this record's strongest cuts, beckon fans to out-of-the-way places with great jukeboxes and 
'Some of these party tunes have all 
the bite of day-old champagne.' 
25-cent beers. 
Even the B-52s politics are toe-tapping: the slyly titled "Bushfire" condemns the burn­ing of South American rain forests. 
The mood is far better than on 1986's downbeat Bouncing Off The Satellites, which featured the band soldiering through songs that ----Wilson left half-fin­ished before his death. Blessedly, producers Nile Hodgers and Don Was employ live drummers, avoiding the drum machines that made past songs sound like nervous breakdowns. 

And yet, like so many records these days, it all seems like a triumph of form over substance. 
.. .and the melancholy Maria McKee 
contract remains? 
The answer, of course. is repeat the joke and hope someone who wasn't around the first time is listening. 
~ 
record's best song can't be found on the LP. The CD-only cut "Drinkin' In My Sunday Dress" is an inspired piece of lunacy where a bawdy McKee is lectured by her preacher, ".Just remember who's beside you when it's no business of mine." This song, plus the CD-ac­centuated spaces of silence Froom builds around McKee's voice, makes the compact disc the best bet for those who have a choice. 

(AP)-In an effective solo debut, singer Maria McKee draws a picture of romantic longing and world weariness surprising for a woman of only 24 years. 
The former leader of the now dissolved country rockers Lone Justice, McKee packs a huge voice into a small body. That voice is the centerpiece of a melanchollc album that comes closer to realizing McKee's talents than either of Lone Justice's two records. 
The trio of opening songs ­''I've Forgotten What It Was In You (That Put The Need In Me)" "To Miss Someone" and "Am I The Only One (Who Ever Felt This Way)"-dutifully record romantic longing without lapsing into comic self-pity. 
McKee displays her singing power with the rocker "Can't Pull The Wool Down (Over The Lamb's Eyes)" and the gospel song "More Than A Heart Can Hold." 
Though McKee is backed by several studio pros better known than she, producer Mitchell Froom wisely lets her voice carry the show. The backing is supportive and largely anonymous, with the exception of some twisted guitar work by Marc Ribot. 
The sour notes seem the result of caring too much, rather than too little. "Panic Beach," a tale of aging vaudevillians playing out the string, is both overwrought and overwritten ("And the dying swan pirouettes and fawns by the light of the street lamp moon"). McKee's voice is overly mannered on the Richard Thompson cover, "Has He. Got A Friend For Me?" 
McKee also sets some sort of record for Longest Song Titles of the Year (With Annoying Parentheticals, Too). 
One consumer note: This 

'Adverteasing' American style 
If I had the chance to have believe it. "But you just don't P.T. was right. We just one of the Great Mysteries DAN FONTANA understand," he'll say, with yo­Americans fall of Life explained to me before I gurt dripping down his face. for anything we 
The Real World ... 
die, I think it would be the one "The earth has started spinning see advertised. about why we have Frozen Yo­slower, thereby reducing the gurt. I think we have a lot of forces of inertia causing a pro­We can prove
deal with all this nuclear waste 
useless consumer products in portionate increase in the effect this: how many of 
while we were happily dead in 
this country. like keychain or­of gravity, giving the illusion you have stood 
our graves from old age. The 
naments, the entire Ronco line, that I weigh more. But I really out in the cold, 
problem is, we Americans will 
and Oprah. But of all of these, I don't. What flavor do you freezing to death, 
never get the longevity benefits 
think Frozen Yogurt definitely want?" sporting your 
out of this frozen stuff. Why? 
new Leathertakes the cake. A dessert which, Because we don't know how to 

by the way, contains roughly Our only hope is that we Jacket, knowing 
say when. It's like, remember
the same amount of calories. Americans are now exercising full well that your
the old joke, "I'll have two Big more. We're not too sure why, old down oneMacs, a large fry, and a Diet
I do sincerely hope that we Just Do It. Or at least we would keep you 
Coke?" Well. now it's like, 'Til
Frozen Yogurt eaters aren't buy the clothes to make it look warm? Why?
have a LARGE CHOCOLATE
fooled by the idea that this stuff like we Just Do It. I know I have Because we all
Frozen Yogurt on a SUGAR
will help them lose weight. We a closet just full of clothes that I know that down
CONE topped with a crushed 
can prove that it doesn't. Take can wear anytime I want to look is just not IN for
SNICKERS."
Elliot Gould, for example. He like I excel at any sport from Winterly Jacket­
I think the people who run 
was just fine before he started rugby to golf to running. I've Wear. What it is
these shops play on the fact 
with those TCBY commercials. never actually participated in IN for is
that people can make them­any of these sports, ·except golf, Comforters.
Now what is he doing? 
selves believe just about any­
Artvertising for Jenny Craig which has the exercise value of As I'm sure
thing. And the smarter they
Weight Loss Centers. This is going to the bathroom. you've figured 
are, the worse it gets. For ex­
NOT a coincidence. This all reminds me of the old out by now, I


ample, if you take a science
Remember the good old days adage coined by P.T. Lincoln, believe that the 
major and prove to him by use
when yogurt had just the one when he said to Abe Barnum, only.solution to this is an
of a very professional-looking 
purpose? That is, making sure "Now Abe," he said, "don't expensive Federal Regulatory 
scale, with a bunch of little 
the Russians would live longer waste your time only fooling all Commission headed up by the
weights and everything, that he 
the suckers all the time, or Best-Man-For-the-Job­
than us so THEY would have to 
weighs five more pounds this 
you'11 miss the new ones being Congress-Would-Approve as
week than last, he'll NEVER 
born every minute." Well, old 
determined by actual hard cold cash given to the last . Presidential campaign. We 
'\."':'>eould call him our Sex Czar. Now if you'll excuse me, I don't want to miss Oprah. 

Wednesday, November 1, 1989 The Observer page 11 
The Observer accepts class1fieds every busmess day from 1oa.m to 3·30 p m at th Notre Dame off1ce. 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 to 3 p m at the Samt Marysofficee Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classilieds •s 3 p.m All classilieds must be 
prepa1d The charge 1s 2 cents per character per day. mcludmg spaces.

Classifieds 
Help! Little sis coming from Need 2 Navy GA's. Will pay a HELPfl Sell me your Navy GA's
NOTICES I ) HELP!fl MYPARENTS ARE magnaminous sum of money. Call
FORRENT Orygun to see S.M.U. Need 1 
Call Tina at X4840 STUD TIX . Please call #4939 Dan at 271-9901.
COMING AND WILL PAY BIG Spee-Dee NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR BUCKS FOR 3 NAVY GA.'S AND 1 Need X-MAS or bar cash?
Wordprocessing NEXT SCHOOL YEAR. 277-3097. 
TAKE A BREAK! I'LL BUY YOUR 

University Pizza is NOW HIRING237-1949 I NEED TWO SMU GA'S AND NAVY STUD. CALL LARRY@ 11-18 PENN STATE SKTS. CALL drivers and inside help. We'll work
BOUGHT HOUSE, NEED X.1864. 
COLLECT: 609-390-0456. 

TWO SMU STUD'S! CALL with any schedule (8-40 hrslwk).
WORDPROCESSfNG ROOMMATE. QUIET, NEAR 
ELAINE x4209 Good pay, great people!!! Apply at272-8827 CAMPUS. ROOM FURNISHED OR I NEED 2GA'S AND 1 STUD. FOR WANTED 18055 St. Rd. #23 (opposite
UNFURNISHED. MUST BE SMU. CALL MARK @X.1722.
•• ATTENTION •• TWO NAVY GA'S Coach's & 3 drs closer to the mall).
ADOPTION. Happily married white MATURE, NON-SMOKER. $200 
FACULTY, STUDENTS, ALUMNI 277-8398 
couple wishes to share love and MO + 1/2 UTIL. CALL 232-9952. NEED NAVY & SMU TIX KevinI need one NAVY GA for Mom. What is "Second City Nationalsecurity with newborn. Expenses 256-2927
Will pay $60 CASH for first offer. WANTED Touring Co.?" Come and find out­paid. Legal. Please call Margaret ROOMMATE WANTED! 
Call Scott x1635 after 8:30 pm FOUR NAVY GA'S your in for a comedy evening! Nov.
and Jerry collect 718-858-6250 PERSON (MALE) TO SHARE NEED NAVY GA'S. CALL ONE NAVY STUD. 
9. Tickets on sale now at

evenings and weekends. TURT. CRK. APT. PRIVATE SANDY AT 288-0885. CALL ALEX 1165 LaFortune info desk. Students $5,BEDROOM, FURNISHED $$$$$$ Non-students $7.
What seats 615 people, makes REASONABLE RENT. CALL 277-HELPII NEED NAVY STUD. AND NEED: SMU TICS 2GA 2STUD
Earthquake victim needs a NAVY 

people laugh and want to come 8398. SMU GA AND STUD. BILL X3346 X2862 JENN BEST OFFER
stud call Jeff @3546 $$$$ "Second City" is coming, "Secondback, and starts at 8 P.M.? 
City" is coming; Don~ miss the

"Second Crty" at Washington Hall! BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Need 1 Navy GA #2059 laughs-Nov. 9. Tickets on sale now
Don't be left out! Nov. 9. On sale 219-291-7153 NEED NAVY STU. TX. 2819. I NEED NAVY,SMU,PENN ST, & at LaFortune info desk. Students 
now at LaFortune info desk. I need 2 to 4 GA's for Navy MIAMI TIXS.272-6306 
$5, Non-students $7.

Students $5, Non-students $7 and/orSMU.
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S AND 2 SMU

FOR SALE 
Call Sly at283-3200 (nights) YOU HAVE TICKETS,

GA'S. CALL JIM 277-6405. We need Navy G.A.'s
"Saturday Night Live" style comedy I NEED TICKETS: Please call Jim and Jay at 1942.
and skits; Don't miss "Second Crty", GETIING ENGAGED? I NEED ONE NAVY STUD. Need 2 Navy stu or GA call Kathi at 2 Navy Stud. Tix, 5 SMU GA Tix. Nov.9. On sale now at LaFortune 284-5525 please call Chris at 271-8860
1 CARAT MARQUIS DIAMOND TICKET. PLEASE CALL MIKE ROCHESTER CLUB MEETING
info desk. Students $5, non­
RING 4 SALE. CALL 4012. 2065. TONIGHT AT 6:45PM IN SORIN 
-

students $7. Hey zers, I need 2 SMU GA's call ROOM OF LAFORTUNE. DON'T
Amy at 284-5532 *****PLEASE HELP***** 

80 VW VANAGON. REBUILT NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. CALL 283-MISS THE EXCITEMENT!
TYPING AVAILABLE. THREE FIGHTIN' IRISH FANS
ENGINE. BODY EXCELLENT. 2541. 
287-4082. ATIENTION! ATTENTION!
VERY RELIABLE. $2000. 234-WANT TO BRING LUCK TO OUR MUST HAVE NAVY STUD!! BRO
My sister is trying to decide which

8507. HELP! TEAM THIS WEEKEND.. IS COMING. CALL STEVE 2400.
Typing. Overnight service. college she will attend. She has
NEED MANY NAVY TIX, STUD. 
DON'T MAKE THEM CHEER

277-6091 narrowed her choice down to
ATIENTION-GOVERNMENT ORGA. FROM OUTSIDE THE STADIUM NAVY AND SMU TICKETS FOR
Notre Dame and that institution of 

SEIZED VEHICLES FROM $100. PLEASE CALL DAVE 3408. *****Need 3 Navy tix••••• INNER CITY KIDS. ST.
TYPING term all evil, Miami. I need to take her
FORDS, MERCEDES, Call Trish #2695 STEPHEN'S CHURCH WOULD
papers/reports/letters/resumes to a Notre Dame football game to
CORVETIES, CHEVYS. NEED 3 NAVY GA'S. CALL JERRY LIKE TO GIVE KIDS A CHANCE
Pick up & delivery available. 277-convince her to see light and not
SURPLUS BUYERS GUIDE. 1-AT3227. TO SEE ND PLAY. LIKE TO
5134 10am-8pm turn to the dark side. To prevent
602-838-8885 EXT. A6262. Need 4 Navy stud tix. DONATE A TICKET? WRITE OR
this tradgedy, SELL ME YOUR

NEED MIAMI TIX. CALL GREG CALL ED LANGLOIS, CSC AT
Mac X4251 or Greg X3479

RIOCKET SHIRTS /SWEATS? 1653. NAVY TICKET. CALL MIKE AT
. 277-5647 EVENINGS 1789.
FOR SALE: KING SIZE MOREAU SEMINARY, 239-7735. 
WATERBED $150 674-5688 Need 2 SMU GA Call-3636 NEED 2 SMU STUD. TIX. CALL THEOLOGY AND COMMUNITY
Lost and Found I NEED TWO Navy GA or 1 std.
Leading Edge computer, JOHN 1665. SERVICE (THE0.273):
Sean X4327$$$.

monochrome monitor and Need to trade my NAVY Stud for a PERMISSION REQUIRED FROM
Help! I lost my father's blue coat at 
Brother's letter quality printer -NEED 2 NAVY GA'S & 1 STUD. SMU Stud Call-3636 CSC. PREREQUISITE -THEO.
the sophmore formal at SMC in · I need 2 SMU stud. tix in a big
$800 Ph. 272-8827 SMU. CALL JIM 1041. 100 OR 200. COME TO THE CSC
Haggar and I need it back. It is a way! Mike 3501 OR PHONE 239-529344R and has tissue in the left 
NEED 1 NAVY STUD. TIC. CALL IMMEDIATELY FOR
Desperate for 2 Navy tix

pocket. If you mistakenly took it, need 2 Navy GAs
1-WAY TICKET FROM SB TO SEAN3015. Stud. or GA call x4875 INFORMATION CONCERNING 
please call Chris at 288-4420. money no prob.
DALLAS/FORT WORTH LEAVEE APPLICATION FOR COURSE. DEC 22.FEMALE ONLY. $160. BADLY NEED 4-6 PENN ST. GA'S HAVE AN SMU STU. WILL
Pat 1236 Lost: Last Sunday 10/15 , 1 :00 , 
CALL MIKE 232-4208. TRADE FOR A NAVY STU JUNIORS!!!!! HEY, JUNIORS!!!!
S. Stepan Football Field , During TOP$ OR SELL. ANDY 232-2586 The FALL FORMAL PROOFS a lnterHall football game Scapula ALL HOME GA'S
I 

TICKETS Are In The Junior Class Office
with First Communion Medalion 312-920-9350 Tuesday Thru Friday.
attached. If anyone knows it's 
Travel Tour Operator needs I NEED 2 SMU TICKETS, Come Order That Special Photo
whereabouts, Please call John NEEDED: 2 OR 3 NAVY GA'S.
tickets for all N.D. games-home EITHER STUD OR GA
Carlin at 1178, Serious BRAD 3318. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ ~-~~~~-':~~-'-~~~~:-~~~-!:~~-<;:ops!
and away, especially MSU, USC CALL SEAN X4332
sentamental value, "Cabbage" will WANTED: MIAMI TICKETS HELP... !NEED 10+ SMU
and Miami. Premium price paid.
be paid !1111!1!!1! 2 GA'S WANTED FOR SMU CALL MATI AT 1961 
TICKETS. Please call Eric atImmediate case available. Will 

GAME. WILL PAY REASONABLE $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
#3543.

trade for all major sporting events Selling 3 St. Tixs for NAVY +
PRICE. LEAVE MESSAGE AT

including Final 4, Indy 500 and SMU. Call Carl, 239 5649
Lost: Class Ring outside Flanner (313) 769-5329. I need GA tixs for all home games To Steve who was DJ Fri. of the SC
bowl game, etc. Will also buy
around 1 0/18 Reward call Brei Esp. for USC $$ 284-5227 Patty ame at Marks St. My friends were
season tickets. Please call Dave < need 3 smu ga's
NEED A NAVY TICKET STUD. OR
x1389 having anxiety attacks, so I never
1-800-828-8955 today. please call kris
GA. CALL KIM 2971 . 
got a chance to talk to you. How
x2568

LOST: Ladies CORVAIR BIKE. about getting together for a beer 
I'll buy any tickets for any home
Whrte wrth blue trim, BIG basket on NAVY NAVY NAVY. NEED 10 GA'S Mom and Dad are kind of weird. sometime?
game, or Miami.

the front... Great sentimental value. OR STUD. FOR NAVY. CALL TOM Even after seeing the boring Trida
call JEFF at 239-3714, need 1 Navy stud ticket;
Any info---no questions asked f-. AT 1694. Purdue game, they rarin' to see
leave a message. Thanks. call Jeff x3364
call Bridget at 283-2457. more ND football. Help them out Hey Jules, What's happenin'? I NEED 2 NAVY TIX AND 2 SMU They'll buy any two G.A.s for any Thanks for the Halloween candy.
STUDENT TICKET FOR SALETIX. PREF. STUD. PLEASE CALL 

home game. Love, Your little goblin

NEEDED: 1 USC studenttikl *******NAVY AND SMU******
STACY2798. Call #3714 and leave a message.
PLEASE call: Marci #2695 ** CALL 271-5667**I LOST MY CAMERA ON GREEN BEST OFFERS ONLY-PLSMY BROTHER WILL TRADE
FIELD DURING THE PITI GAME. 1 FELTCHflllll
Need TXTS All Games call Bill
WOULD REALLY LIKE IT BACK BEAUTIFUL EX-WIFE FOR 1 2 Tixs to all Home Games for sale
277-3653 I need two Navy GAs. I can beat
NAVY GA OR STUDENT TIC.

AS IT HAS GREAT SENTIMENTAL 272-5092 your best offer. Call me--you won't Hey Molly! Have you had any goodNICK2055.
VALUE. PLEASE CALL MONICA regret it. Tim Dierks -3898 bananas lately? AT 2764 IF YOU KNOW NEED GAS FOR PITI, 
I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S CALL NEED smu ga's 277-5934 
ANYTHING ABOUT IT. NO NAVY & SMU $$$$ GREAT SEATS!!!!!!!
CHERIE 4969.

MEMORIES FOR ME WITHOUT CALL TOM & MARTY 40YD.UNE
Need Navy Tix 
ST. EDWARD'S 

IT!! X 3185 HAVE 2 ST. TIX ON 40 YD. LINE
I NEED 4 SMU GA'S. PLEASE $$No Issue 
FOR NAVY 
HALL FORUM 

CALL MARY 288-0885. Jen 284-4110
You need TXTS. call277-3653 NEED 2 GA'S FOR NAVY Dr. Roland Smith 
WANTED 
LETS MAKE A DEAL!III !I

HELP! ANGRY TOLEDO WOMEN Need 11 GA'sforNavy.271-8347. 
Exec. Assistant to Father Malloy KRIS #4340

ARE AFTER ME! NEED TWO SMU Ask tor Tony or Sue. 
Mr. Kenneth Ourgans BE ON T.V. many needed for Need two SMU tix please call 284­STUDENT TIX. $$$ OR NAVY Dlr. of MlnorHy Student Affairs commercials. Now hiring all ages. 4930!!!!!!!!!! 

STUDENT TIX IN EXCHANGE. $*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$* Respond to: 
For casting info. call (615) 779-Have 4 Navy GAs. Need 4 SMU
JOHN 1602. $* 
" Does Racism Exist

7111 Ext T-1481 DESPERATELY NEED: GAs. Will Trade. Call Chris 1191
Need 2 Navy Student Tickets

GA'S FOR NAVY AND USC 
at Notre Dame?"

I NEED Call Norm x4785. Big money!
ATIENTION: EARN MONEY STUD FOR USC AND PITI. 
NAVY/SMU GA'S 
Thursday, Nov. 2

READING BOOKS! $32,000/YEAR $$$$$ ABSOLUTE $$$$$ Need two student tickets to NAVY!
NAVY/SMU GA'S

POTENTIAL. DETAILS. (1) 602-TOP DOLLAR PAID! Call Amy 1265. 
7:00p.m.

JEFF 3073. DE$$$$$$$$$PERATEL Y NEED838-8885 EXT. BK 6262 CALL DAN x1300 
All are invited
NAVY GAs X3500-Watts 
HELPfll NEED 3 NAVY STUD.

RIDE NEEDED TO S.W. Need TXTS All Games call Bill I need Navy tix, call2741
TICKETS. CALL KEVIN 288-3032. I need TIX for ALL gamesVA/ROANOKE AREA FOR 277-3653 
x3690

THANKSGIVING. CALL TOM Need Navy GA's and students for 
2299. NEED GAS FOR PITI, PERSONALS
friends coming in this weekend.

NAVY & SMU $$$$ 
Please call Marty at x1868. Need 5 Navy GA's-Julie X3141
EXCELLENT SUMMER & CALL TOM & MARTY ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF CAREER OPPORTUNITIES NOW X 3185 PRAYER AND JOYOUS
Navy GA's needed 

AVAILABLE FOR COLLEGE COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Call Chris 1623
STUDENT & GRADUATES WITH CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE
You need TXTS. call277-3653 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
RESORT HOTELS, POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY
NEEDED; 2 STUD NAVY NEED NAVY GA TIX. WILL PAY
CRUISELINES,AIRLINES,AMUSE RD. 300 W. KOKOMO, IN 46901
TICKETS!! Make some extra beer BIG BUCKS. CALL JOE AT 287­MENT PARKS AND CAMPS. FOR I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S AND 1 PITI money and sell your tickets-4561 AFTER 6PM.
MORE INFORMATION AND AN 
GA. CALL LARRY ATX.1864. Please call Julie at x4419
APPLICATION, WRITE NATIONAL ARE YOU CALLED TO A LIFE OF
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 6 NAVY TICKETS GA OR
COLLEGIATE RECREATION PRAYER AND JOYOUS
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ STUD CALL DIANE AT X4072
SERVICE, PO BOX 8074,HILTON COMMITMENT TO JESUS AS A
WE NEED PITI GA'S!
HEAD SC 29938. CONTEMPLATIVE NUN? WRITE
Call Pete-1643 or Mike-1672. I NEED TWO SMU TICKETS-­$$$$$$$$$ STUDENT OR GA---CALL COOP HELP!!! 
POOR GLARES, 1175 N. COUNTY WOULD LIKE TO OFFER RD. 300 W. KOKOMO, IN 46901
NEED 4 SMU GA'S @4245 NEED 1 NAVY STU CALL MARISADISCOVER CREDIT CARDS? ARE 
TIM 271-8795 X3487
YOU AVAILABLE FOR ONLY A WANTED: 4NAVYTIX FEW HOURS/WEEK? IF SO, CALL 4USCTIX
I need 2 smu GAs.Call will at SMWho? Exactly how I feel, but NEED NAVY GAS! X3553
1-800-932-0528 EXT. 4. WE'LL 'X'PmTIX
x1876 or andy at x1965. for some odd reason my parents
PAY YOU AS MUCH AS STUDENT OR GA'S ACCEPTED.
want to see this game. Please NEED 2 NAVY GA'S CALL JEN
$1 0.00/HOUR. ONLY TEN PLEASE CALL
-ATTENTION** sell me your SMU GA's and make 277-4099
POSITONS AVAILABLE. MATT@X1650
FACULTY, STUDENTS, ALUMNI my dad very happy on his birthday. 
........ca1SilTt -·­
rau Flllf NIIIIIUIION aiiDIIIUlal

I need one NAVY GA for Mom. Call Brigid @ 284-41 01. I need 4 Navy GA's for my alumni
I need ND vs. Miami T-shirts! DON DON DON DON DON DON
Will pay $60 CASH for first offer. relatives. Call Terry at 2546. 1·800·:521·5911Please call Kathleen at284-5120 
Call Scott 1635 after 8:30 pm I NEED A PAIR OF NAVY GA'S CALL MIKE #4047 Need 4 GA and 2 Stud Navy Tixx 


I'M INFATUATED WITH YOU. OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo. YOU ARE SO SEXUAL!!
***WANTED: PENN ST & MIAMI call Rob or Scott at 1157Summer, Yr. round, All Countries, 
TIX CALL Dennis x2002 Need 3 GA's for the SMU game in 
All fields. Free info. Wme IJC, PO FEHRS FEHRS FEHRS FEHRS 
sections 36 or 1-4. Call Jerry 4113 Need SMU tix-call Karen x4541
BX 52-Corona Del Mar CA 92625 see CLASS I page 6 
-· 

Sports Wednesday 
page 12 November 1, 1989 
-
I 
, 
SPORTS LIST 

On the Lookout. • • 
Scouting travel by NBA's expansion Minnesota Timberwolves 
1. 
Miles traveled: 242,878 

2. 
States visited: 36 

3. 
Games attended: 200 

4. 
College teams watched: 

5. 
CBA teams watched: 7 

6. 
NBA teams watched:25 


'Travel by coach and player personnel director prior to 1989 draf1 
.: 

~:. Th Ob /La St I 
NFL STANDINGS 

AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
East  
w  L  T  Pet  PF  PA  Home  Away  AFC  NFC  Div  
Buffalo  6  2  0  .750  221  180  4+0  2-1-0  5-2-0  1-0-0  4-1-0  
lndnplis  4  4  0  .500  154  143  2-2-0  2-2-0  3-2-0  1·2·0  2-1-0  
Miami  4  4  0  .500  161  190  2-2-0  2-2·0  3·4-0  1-0-0  1-3-0  
N England  3  5  0  .375  131  189  1·2·0  2-3-0  3·3·0  0-2-0  2·2·0  
NY Jets  1  7  0  .125  132  215  0-4-0  1-3-0  1-5-0  0-2-0  1-3-0  
Central  
Cincnnati  5  3  0  .625  204  140  3-2-0  2-1-0  4-2-0  1-1-0  3-0-0  
Cleveland  5  3  0  .625  191  112  4-1-0  1-2-0  4-3-0  1-0-0  2-2-0  
Houston  4  4  0  .500  211  198  2-1-0  2-3-0  3-3-0  1-1-0  1-1-0  
Pittsbrgh  4  4  0  .500  116  186  2-2-0  2-2-0  2-4-0  2-0-0  1-4-0  
West  
Denver  6  2  0  .750  184  133  4-1-0  2-1-0  6-1-0  0-1-0  4-0-0  
LA Raidrs  4  4  0  .500  178  148  3-1-0  1-3-0  3-3-0  1-1-0  2-3-0  
Seattle  4  4  0  .500  143  155  1-3-0  3-1-0  4-2-0  0-2-0  3-2-0  
Kan. City  3  5  0  .375  154  182  2-1-0  1-4-0  2-5-0  1-0-0  2-3-0  
San Diego  2  6  0  250  132  156  1-3-0  1-3-0  1-5-0  1-1-0  1-4-0  
NAnO NALC ONFER ENCE  
East  
w  L  T  Pet  PF  PA  Home  Away  AFC  NFC  Div  
NY Giants  7  1  0  .875  199  123  4-0-0  3-1-0  1-0-0  6+0  4-1-0  
Phil a  6  2  0  .750  190  164  3+0  3-1-0  3-0-0  3-2-0  3-0-0  
Phoenix  4  4  0  .500  156  173  1-3-0  3-1-0  1-1-0  3-3-0  1-3-0  
Washngtn  4  4  0  .500  210  203  2-2-0  2-2-0  0+0  4-3-0  2-3-0  
Dallas  0  8  0  .000  106  232  0-4-0  0-4-0  0-1-0  0-7-0  0-3-0  
Central  
Chicago  5  3  0  .625  219  173  4-1-0  1-2-0  1-2-0  4-1-0  2-1-0  
Minnesota  5  3  0  .625  160  137  4-0-0  1-3-0  1-1-0  4-2-0  4-1-0  
Green Bay  4  4  0  .500  205  201  4-1-0  0-3-0  0-1-0  4-3-0  1-2-0  
Tampa Bay  3  5  0  .375  171  208  2-2-0  1-3-0  0-1-0  3-4-0  2-2-0  
Detroit  1  7  0  .125  118  193  0-4-0  1-3-0  0-1-0  1-6-0  1-4-0  
West  
San Fran  7  1  0  .875  215  145  1-1-0  6-0-0  3-0-0  4-1-0  1-1-0  
LA Rams  5  3  0  .625  193  185  3-1-0  2-2-0  1-1-0  4-2-0  3-1-0  
NewOrlns  4  4  0  .500  195  143  3-2-0  1-2-0  1-0-0  3-4-0  2-1-0  
Atlanta  2  6  0  .250  141  183  2-1-0  0-5-0  1-1-0  1-5-0  0-3-0  

SCOREBOARD 

Results from Oct. 21-31 Women's (12-10) 
Dayton 5, Notre Dame 3 {OT) 

Volleyball (10-11) Xavier 2, Notre Dame 1 {OT) Notre Dame def. Butler, 15-10, 15-Baseball 8, 15-13 USC 8, Notre Dame 1 Notre Dame def. Duke, 7-15, 15-Hockey (1-1) 13,4-15, 15-10, 15-10 Notre Dame 6·3, RIT 5-7 Notre Dame def. Northwestern, Cross Country 15-6, 15-10, 13-15, 15-13 Men's Minnesota def. Notre Dame, 15-7, Notre Dame 17, USC 44 
15-5, 15-10 Notre Dame won the MCC 
Football(~) championships with 27 points, Notre Dame 28, USC 24 edging second-place Loyola by Notre Dame 45, Pittsburgh 7 eight points 
Soccer Women's 
Men's (9-6-3) Notre Dame 18, Marquette 44 Notre Dame 2, Air Force 1 Notre Dame took second place in Notre Dame 3, Loyola 0 the MCC championships with 57 Bowling Green 1, Notre Dame 0 points to finish behind Dayton 
r---------------------,
FREE 
SCHOLARSHIP INFORMATION FOR STUDENTS WHO NEED 
MONEY FOR COLLEGE 
Every Student is Eligible for Some Type of Financial Aid Regardless of Grades or Parental Income. 
• 
We have a data bank of over 200,000 listings of scholarships, fellowships, grants, and loans, representing over $10 billion in private sector funding. 

• 
Many scholarships are given to students based on their academic interests, career plans, family heritage and place of residence. 

• 
There's money available for students who have been newspaper car­riers, grocery clerks, cheerleaders, non-smokers ...etc. 

• 
Results GUARANTEED. 



CALL For AFree Brochure • 
-a-1 

ANYTIME (800 346-6401 lt:iJ 
L---------------------~ 
NFL LEADERS 
AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE Quarterbacks 
All Com Yds TO Kelly, Buff. 162 100 1420 11 Esiason, Cin. 212 118 1627 14 Moon, Hou. 229 138 1910 12 Brister, Pitt. 164 102 1174 6 Kosar. Clev. 240 144 1737 10 Krieg, Sea. 279 159 1832 13 McMahon. S.D. 201 116 1381 6 DeBerg, K.C. 156 103 1282 4 Rushers 
All Yds Avg LG Okoye, K.C. 177 810 4.6 59 Dickerson, Ind. 160 693 4.3 21 Brooks, Cin. 118 692 5.9 65 Thomas, Buff. 140 650 4.6 38 Humphrey, Den. 108 425 3.9 40 Warner, Sea. 114 379 3.3 21 Stephens, N.E. 121 374 3.1 15 Williams, Sea. 95 332 3.5 17 
Receivers 
NO Yds Avg LG Reed, Buff. 48 703 14.6 78 Blades, Sea. 42 589 14.0 32 Williams, Sea. 40 305 7.6 25 Slaughter, Clev. 39 811 20.8 97 Johnson, Den. 39 591 15.2 68 Thomas, Buff. 35 400 11.4 74 Lipps, Pitt. 33 553 16.8 64 
I Mia. 32 439 13.7 44 
WALES CONFERENCE 
Patrick Division  
w L  T  Pts  GF  GA  
NY Rangers  8  2  3  19  53  39  
New Jersey  6  4  1  13  41  39  
NY Islanders  3  5  3  9  41  44  
Pittsburgh  3  6  2  8  39  49  
Washington  3  7  2  8  37  45  
Philadelphia  3  7  1  7  35  40  
Adams Division  
Montreal  8  6  0  16  45  39  
Buffalo  7  4  1  15  43  36  
Hartford  6  6  1  13  41  41  
Boston  5  6  1  11  34  36  
Quebec  3  7  1  7  42  46  

CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Norris Division  
w L  T  Pts  
Chicago  8  5  1  17  
Minnesota  7  3  1  15  
St. Louis  5  5  0  10  
Toronto  5  7  0  10  
Detroit  4  6  2  10  
Smythe Division  
Calgary  6  3  4  16  
Vancouver  6  5  1  13  
Los Angeles  6  6  0  12  
Edmonton  4  5  3  11  
Winnipeg  5  6  0  10  
Monday's Game  

Philadelphia 3, New York Rangers 1 Wednesday's Games St. Louis at Hartford, 7:35p.m. 
NFL TEAM LEADERS 
AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE OFFENSE 
Yards Rush Pass Buffalo 3109 1151 1958 Cincinnati 2894 1340 1554 Miami 2864 639 2225 Houston 2782 993 1789 Kansas City 2643 1053 1590 New England 2546 863 1683 Raiders 2528 1079 1449 Denver 2501 1035 1466 Seattle 2500 817 1683 Cleveland 2496 828 1668 Indianapolis 2411 973 1438 Jets 2390 661 1729 San Diego 2229 875 1354 Pittsburgh 1935 760 1175 
DEFENSE 
Yards Rush Pass Cleveland 2182 840 1342 Kansas City 2219 983 1236 Denver 2371 840 1531 Houston 2494 723 1771 San Diego 2583 899 1684 Buffalo 2586 837 1749 Seattle 2595 952 1643 Raiders 2598 974 1624 Indianapolis 2715 920 1795 Cincinnati 2722 1115 1607 New England 2790 872 1918 Pittsburgh 2816 1023 1793 Miami 2885 1131 1754 Jets 3019 1036 1983 
GF  GA  
52  46  
42  38  
37  35  
58  65  
42  52  
61  47  
45  46  
45  50  
46  43  
38  41  

Quarterbacks lnt 
7 Montana, S.F. 4 
Hebert. N.O. 7 Majkowski, G.B. 3 Everett, Rams 9 Simms, Giants 11 Rypien, Wash. 7 Miller,Atl. 
10 
Cunningham, Phil. 
Rushers TO 
7 Anderson, Chi. 4 
Riggs, Wash. 4 Bell, Rams 3 Anderson, Giants 
4 
B.Sanders, Del. 2 Walker, DII.-Mnn. 3 Hilliard, N.O. 
1 
Fullwood, G.B. 
Receivers TO 5 
J.Smith, Phoe. 3 
Ellard, Rams 4 
Sharpe, G.B. 5 
Rice, S.F 4 
Carrier, T.B. 4 
Monk, Wash. 3 
Sanders, Wash. 
Div 3-2-1 2-0-1 1-1-2 0-1-1 2-1-0 1-4-1 
4-2-~ 
4-2-0 4-3-0 2-4-0 1-4-0 
Oiv 3-2-0 1-2-0 3-3-0 2-1-0 2-3-0 
1-1-1 2-2-1 3-3·0 3-3-0 2-2-0 
Philadelphia at Detroit, 7:35p.m. New Jersey at Edmonton, 9:35p.m. Winnipeg at Calgary, 9:35 p.m. 
NAnDNALFOOTBALLCONFERENCE NAnONALFOOTBALLCONFERENCE 
OFFENSE  
Yards  Rush  Pass  
Washington  3283  1086  2197  
Green Bay  3139  935  2204  
San Francisco  3091  996  2095  
New Orleans  2934  958  1976  
Chicago  2888  1234  1654  
Rams  2808  880  1928  
Philadelphia  2693  1089  1604  
Phoenix  2664  857  1807  
Giants  2579  1038  1541  
Detroit  2510  1056  1454  
Tampa Bay  2436  820  1616  
Minnesota  2427  1052  1375  
Atlanta  2352  591  1761  
Dallas  2135  515  1620  
DEFENSE  
Yards  Rush  Pass  
Minnesota  1758  911  847  
New Orleans  2378  617  1761  
Giants  2391  800  1591  
San Francisco  2403  755  1648  
Detroit  2636  887  1749  
Atlanta  2744  1073  1671  
Phoenix  2759  999  1760  
Washington  2761  805  1956  
Philadelphia  2834  903  1931  
Chicago  2840  935  1905  
Rams  2901  857  2044  
Tampa Bay  2914  1084  1830  
Dallas  2935  1286  1649  
·Green Bay  2938  1117  1821  


All Com Yds TO lnt 185 127 1623 11 3 228. 152 2000 13 6 280 171 2303 16 12 257 145 2019 14 9 190 115 1560 9 8 281 157 2192 14 9 236 140 1643 5 2 266 143, 1768 13 9 
All Yds Avg LG TO 160 748 4.7 53 8 154 658 4.3 58 3 147 641 4.4 46 6 179 609 3.4 36 7 112 597 5.3 31 3 131 551 4.2 47 3 151 536 3.5 25 7 117 528 4.5 38 5 
NO Yds Avg LG TO 60 759 12.7 31 5 51 901 17.7 46 5 45 774 17.2 79 6 42 869 20.7 68 9 41 633 15.4 43 4 40 586 14.7 55 4 40 584 14.6 51 3 39 645 16.5 80 6 
TOP25 POLL 
The Top Twenty Five teams in the Associated Press college football poll, with first-place votes in parentheses, records through Oct. 28, total points based on 25­24-23-22-21-20-19-18-17-16-15-14-13­12-11-10-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1 and last week's ranking: 
Record Pts Pvs 
1. Notre Dame (58) 8-0-0 1 ,498 1 2. Colorado (2) 8-0-0 1 ,432 3 3. Nebraska 8-0-0 1 ,366 4 4. Michigan 6-1-0 1 ,312 5 5. Alabama 7-0-0 1 ,260 6 6. Florida St. 6-2-0 1 .159 9 7. Miami. Fla. 6-1-0 1,114 2 8. Illinois 6-1-0 1 .083 8 
9. Southern Cal 6-2-0 1 ,038 1 0 10. Tennessee 6-1-0 927 11 11. Arkansas 6-1-0 912 13 12. Auburn 5-2-0 711 1 6 13. West Virginia 6-1-1 694 15 14. Pittsburgh 5-1-1 653 7 15. Arizona 6-2-0 638 17 16. Penn St. 5-2-0 525 14 17. Houston 5-2-0 460 12 18. N. Carolina St. 7-1-0 457 20 19. Florida 6-1-0 449 19 20. Texas A&M 6-2-0 437 21 21 . Clemson 7-2-0 412 22 22. Texas 4-2-0 286 24 23. Brigham Young 6-2-0 113 18 24. Virginia 7-2·0 112 25. Fresno St. 8-0-0 91 
Other receiving votes: Hawaii 64, Washington St. 64, Mississippi 49, Washington 37, Ohio St. 36, Michigan St. 
29. Oklahoma 21, South Carolina 18. Texas Tech 12. Arizona St. 9, Air Force 8, Georgia 7, Duke 5, Oregon 1, Syracuse 1. 
SPORTS CALENDAR 
Home games In CAPS 
Wednesday Volleyball at Illinois, 7:30 p.m. 

Thursday Men's soccer at MCC Championships 
Friday Volleyball hosts Golden Dome Classic, 6 p.m., 8 p.m. Hockey vs. HOLY CROSS, 8:30 p.m. Men's and Women's Swimming hosts Notre Dame Relays Lacrosse vs. WASHINGTON COLLEGE, 7:30 p.m. Men's soccer at MCC Championships 
Saturday Volleyball hosts Golden Dome Classic, 6 p.m., 8 p.m. Hockey vs. HOLY CROSS, 7:30 p.m. Football vs. NAVY Men's soccer at MCC Championships 
Sunday Volleyball vs. KENTUCKY, 2 p.m. Men's soccer at MCC Championships 
Monday No sports scheduled 
Tuesday No sports scheduled 
Nov. a Volleyball at Northwestern, 7:30 p.m. 
4 
Home 4-1-3 2-4-1 0-3-2 3-3-0 2-2-1 2-3-0 
6-2-0 5-0-1 3·3·1 3-1·0 2·2-1 
Home 5-3·0 5-0-0 3-3-0 3-3-0 3-1-1 
3-0-2 3-3-0 2-4-0 1-3-1 4-3-0 Away 4-1-0 4-0-0 3·2-1 0-3-2 1-5-1 1-4-1 
2-4-0 2-4-0 3-3-0 2-5·1 1-5·0 
Away 3-2-1 2-3-1 2-2·0 2·4-0 1-5-1 
3-3-2 3-2-1 4-2-0 3-2·2 1-3·0 


·­
Wednesday, November 1, 1989 The Observer page 13 
Senior Baseball is a dream come true for many Illinois 
continued from page 20 

ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. (AP) Morley, who conceived the major-leaguers and they aren't Dave Kingman to lend 
-Jim Morley beat the odds by idea while vacationing in going to come out here and putting together the Senior Australia last winter, said the embarrass themselves," Morley Professional Baseball players reported for training adds. "I know some people are Association. Now he's hoping camp in relatively good physical thinking it'll be old-people he can keep the dream alive. shape and will make believers baseball or whatever, but all 
The new league for players 35 of anyone willing to spend $4 to they have to do is come out years of age and older begins a $10 on tickets. here and take a look. That'll three-month, 72-game run in "The guys tell me the caliber change their mind in a hurry." Florida on Wednesday with of play should be somewhere Morley and others who eight teams and nearly 200 around Triple-A. Well, that's invested around $1 million for former major leaguers eager to pretty good," said Morley, franchises are counting on silence critics who believe aging owner of the St. Petersburg stars of yesteryear like Graig or retired ballplayers ought to Pelicans. Nettles, Luis Tiant, Bert leave well enough alone. "Remember, these guys were Campaneris, Rollie Fingers and 
A BEHIND THE SCENES LOOK AT POLITICAL LIFE IN WASHINGTON 
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN A CAREER IN POLITICS OR IF YOU ARE JUST CURIOUS AND WANT TO DISCOVER WHAT A POLITICIAN'S LIFE REALLY ENTAILS THEN COME LISTEN AND TALK WITH ND GRADUATES PAUL UNGER AND KURT PFOTENHAUER BOTH ARE CHIEF'S OF STAFF FOR CONGRESSMEN DENNY SMITH AND BOB SMITH, RESPECTIVELY 

PLACE: MONTGOMERY THEATRE IN LAFORTUNE 
When: THURSDAY NOV. 2-7:00 to 9:00 
Co-sponsored by: 
Student Alumni Relations Group 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 

Ifyou're abright, ambitious college student, there's no room in your future for adull, nowhere job. 
Come to the!Etna informa­tion semina~ and we'll introduce you to opportunities as wide open and stimulating as your own imagination. 
We're amajor player in the changingworld offinancial ser­vices. With new, non-stop career paths and new challenges opening up almost every day. From product and service marketing to underwrit­ing and actuarial to information systems and more. 
credibility to the venture. 
In most cases, the skills of the former major leaguers have deteriorated, but the desire ­and ability, the players insist-to excel is still there. 
Morley mailed questionnaires to 1,250 ballplayers last winter and about 730 of them responded that they would be interested in resuming or continuing their careers in a league that would run from Nov. 1-Jan. 31. 
The 17-4 Illini attack opponents with a bevy of powerful hitters, including Laura Bush, who leads the squad with 255 kills and 105 total blocks, and Cunningham and crew will need to get a hand in their faces to hamper their offensive onslaught. 
Bush gets her game going with the help of setter Barb Winsett, who has accumulated 969 assists thus far, and Winsett depends upon the defensive play of people like 
Petra Laverman, who leans the Illini with 196 digs. 
Illinois has the seventh man in their favor, as they regularly pack Kenney Gym with thousands of clamorous fans who are not shy about expressing their loyalties. 
"We expect to play before a sellout crowd," Cunningham said. "That's how it was last year and how it always is for Illinois, but I think that will get us fired up. I think we'll rise to the occasion. 
"We're not the team we were last year, but they're not the same team either. They cut our season short last year and we want to show them how much we appreciated that by beating them on their own court."· 
SObering
Advice .·· 
can 
alife 
Comelearnaboutabetterway. At the!Etna information ses­sion, you'llleam you don't have to fit amold to fit into agood job.Just bring us your drive, imagination and aproven desire to achieve. Whether you're looking for acaree~ or even an internship, we'll show you how!Etna could be one ofyour life's biggest growth opportunities. 
(;ij,P.i 
There's No Stopping AGreat Start 
Date:  Wednesday, November 1, 1989  
Time:  6:00 . 8:00PM  
Place:  Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn  



~------__.....___
_ 

-~------~--_..,­
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, November 1, 1989 
Rowing Club shines in two prestigious regattas 
By MIKE KAMRADT 
Sports writer 
While most of us looked forward to fall break as a time to eat somr good home cooking. catch up on 

sleep, and get away from the grind of 

Mike Kamradt 
classes, the Notre Dame Howing Club 

Club Corner 
traveled to the East Coast to compete in two of the most prestigious regattas in the United States. In Boston the Irish competed in the llead of the Charles and in Philadelphia, Notre Dame tackled the tough national 

competition at the llead ol' the Schylkill (sehool­killl. 
On the 22nd of Octobnr. thP Irish entered a men's Boston. The Irish womf'n raced in imprr><;<;i\'f' eight boat and a womPn's four boat in the race in 
Pacers trim roster to 12 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -The Indiana Pacers waived second­year players Everette Stephens and Anthony Frederick on Tuesday, reducing their roster to 13, the team announced. 
Stephens, a guard from Purdue, had seen just 32 minutes of action in three preseason games, averaging 
2.7 points and two assists per outing. 
Last season Stephens averaged 1.9 points and one assist per game in 35 games. He had been drafted in the second round by the Philadelphia 76ers, who traded him to the Pacers for Ron Anderson. 
Stephens' departure leaves the Pacers with live guards: projected starters Vern Fleming and Reggie Miller, top draft pick George McCloud of Florida State and veterans Rickey Green and Randy Wittman. 
Frederick, a second-year player from Pepperdine, played 10 minutes in the first two preseason games, averaging four points and one rebound, but had not seen action since. 
A two-year veteran of the Continental Basketball Association when he joined the Pacers last year, Frederick averaged 3.3 points and 1.1 rebound in 46 games in 1988­89, with a high game of 19 points against Cleveland. 
The rest of the Pacers roster consists of centers Rik Smits and Greg Dreiling and forwards Chuck Person, LaSalle Thompson, Detlef Schrempf, Mike Sanders, Calvin Natt and rookie Dyron Nix of Tennessee. 
The Pacers must reduce their roster by one player before Friday's season opener at Atlanta. It was possible the Pacers would place Natt on the injured list. He is recovering from knee surgery in the off­season. 

fashion and powered their way to an impressive fifth place finish in the club four event. Coxswain Monique Precheur called the shots for the boat " womaned" by Meg Taylor, Kendall Dorminey, Jennifer Sievers, and Kathy Webb. The outstanding finish guarantees the women's crew team a spot in next year's Head of the Charles. The men's team went up against such formidable Eastern powers MIT and Dartmouth as well as the University of 
Miami. Overall the team placed 22nd out of 40. 
The team then headed for the City of Brotherly Love where they trained for a the week of over fall break. Twice a day the Irish practiced on the Schuylkill River in preparation for their biggest race of the fall season. In this race, the Irish put two men's lightweight eight's in the water as well as one men's heavyweight four and two women's fours. The hard work of training over fall break paid off as the two women's fours achieved top ten finishes. The men weren't to be outdone though as the A boat, captained by John Wilson, finished 14th against the Top 30 crew teams in the nation. The heavyweight four got off to a slow start in training for race, but they finished the week with strong practices. That carried over to the race as the Irish edged out the University of Pennsylvania for 4th place. 
Steve Treciak contributed to this report. 
The Irish next faced a pumped up Amhearst College squad in front of 200 fans. The Irish played well and came out on top 18-10. The Irish experienced a letdown in their next game and were beaten 21-10 by 19th ranked Massachusetts. In their final game, the Irish beat Boston College 16­
11. Throughout the four games, Notre Dame featured a balanced scoring attack led by Mike Manning. The dub's record now stands at 5-3 which is very impressive considering the fact that the Irish have faced all varsity teams. 
The men's Waterpolo Club also logged a good deal of mileage over the break as they traveled to Boston for four games against tough competition. The Irish faced off against #18 Harvard in their first game. The Irish got off to a slow start as they fell behind 10-1. 
" We had to adjust to a larger pool and their stronger swimmers," said Club president Anthony Baerlocher. " We played our best game against Harvard." Indeed, the Irish did come to play well in the 2nd half, but their furious comeback fell short and they were defeated 10-8. However, the Irish were especially encouraged by the fact that the defense held the strong Harvard offensive attack dormant over the last 2 and 3/4 quarters. Goalie Tony Buczkowski was a big reason. 


S.U.B. welcomes the Second City National Touring Company to Notre Dame's Washington Hall, Thursday, November 9th at 8 p.m. 

NATIONAL TOURING COMPANY 
Past Second City Cast Members 
Dan Akroyd, Alan Arkin, Jim Belushi, John BelushL Shelley Berman, Peter Boyle, John Candy, Catherine O'Hara, Sevem Darden, Julia Louis-Dreyfus, Joe Flaherty, Mary Gross, Barbara Harris, Valerie Harper, Tim Kazurinsky, 
Robert Klein, Linda Lavin, Eugene Levy, Shelley Long, Andrea Martin, 
Elaine May, Ann Meara, Rick Moranis, Bill Murray, Mike Nichols, Gilda Radner, Harold Ramis, Joan Rivers, David Steinberg, Martin Short, Jerry Stiller, Betty Thomas. Dave Thomas, George Wendt. Fred Willard 
Tickets go on sale Wed., November 1 at LaFortune Information Desk, Noon-S p.m. Tickets remain on sale at Info Desk thru November 9th or until sold out. (Any remaining tickets will be sold at the door.) Price: $5 Students $7 Non-students 

Wednesday, November 1, 1989 The Observer page 15 
Florida's Sloan resigns in the wake of scandal ~~~ppa~20 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. (AP) -the best interests of the broken a rule, our asses would An internal probe of Florida's Florida basketball coach Norm university's athletic program already be fired. Don't you basketball and football Sloan retired under pressure and the university as a whole." know that? Doesn't that tell programs began after the U.S. Tuesday, leaving a program Sloan's retirement came 24 you something?" Drug Enforcement that has been under days after Florida football In his letter, Sloan said he Administration opened an investigation for more than 18 coach Galen Hall resigned and decided against fighting to keep inquiry into alleged drug months and was recently linked admitted violating NCAA rules. his job. trafficking on the Florida to a federal drug case. Sloan, who won the national "I believe such would be campus 18 months ago. 
University interim president championship at North counterproductive for our Former Gators star Vernon Robert Bryan made the Carolina State in 1974, has a university athletic program, Maxwell, now with the San announcement in a brief career record of 627-395 over and I believe that you face a Antonio Spurs of the NBA, statement. He said athletic 37 years, including a 235-194 great task in keeping our reportedly told a federal grand director Bill Arnsparger hopes mark in 15 years at Florida. school as the academic flagship jury that Florida coaches made to name a successor within a Sloan, 63, led the Gators to of Florida universities. My very secret payments to him dating few days. the school's first-ever strong loyalty prevents my back to high school and that 
In a six-paragraph letter to Southeastern Conference doing anything that might some of the money he received Bryan, Sloan said he resigned championship last year and focus energies away from that in college was used to buy at the request of the University angrily confronted the media principal mission." drugs. Athletic Association, a private two weeks ago in the wake of Sloan said his greatest regret organization that governs the reports that he and his staff was leaving his players. Maxwell, Sloan and two of his athletic department. had resigned or would be fired "My retirement might be assistant coaches, Monte Towe 
"Its officials have presented soon. considered by them as abrupt, and Kenny McCraney, are listed evidence that certain student He said he had grown tired of but it is in their best interest as possible witnesses in the athletes (not now enrolled) an internal probe of the which they will know in time," trial of 11 Gainesville area men during my tenure have received basketball program that began his letter said. "I leave with facing drug charges in U.S. benefits above those allowed by last year and officially was great sadness, but with my District Court this week. The the NCAA," Sloan said. joined by the NCAA on June 30. head held high." men were indicted by the same 
"I deny any such violations "Gentlemen," Sloan said that Arnsparger said Sloan's grand jury that charged four have occurred, but I have day, "this has been going on departure will enable "us to sports agents with defrauding nevertheless decided to honor for a year and a half. I don't continue to move forward and the university by signing several the request that I retire now," know how you could more build our athletic program. I former Florida athletes to the letter said. intensely investigate a have confidence that the illegal contracts. 
Bryan said, "I regret very program. strength of the individual The agents pleaded guilty to much the events that have "If anything, any kind of student-athletes in our reduced charges last month occurred today. However, I evidence at all had shown up basketball program will carry and are to be sentenced Dec. believe what has occurred is in that could verify that we've us forward." 11. 

Ellis, academically ineligible for this semester, will miss at least five games, including contests with Louisville, Indi­ana and UCLA. Depending on when his semester exams are scheduled, he should return sometime during a three-game homestand with Valparaiso, Lafayette and Butler. 
Ellis, a 6-9 forward, averaged 13.5 points and 9.4 rebounds per game as a freshman last year. 
''I'm really glad it's for the first seven games and not the last seven because to lose him for the tournament would be a real blow," said senior guard Joe Fredrick. 
The 6-4 Fredrick led the Irish with 16.7 points per game last season. He and the 6-2 Jackson are co-captains for the second consecutive year. 
"Joe is more vocal, taking charge on the floor," said Phelps. "Tower talks a lot out there too. It's important to have that communication between the back and front courts." 
The 6-11 Tower, who emerged at the end of last year after struggling for the first several games of his freshman season, could start in Ellis' 
absence. Paddock, a 6-9 senior will provide depth. 
A major figure in the back court is 6-9 senior Keith Robinson, whose 9.3 rebounds per game last year ranked second on the team to Ellis. 
Junior forward Kevin Ellery also returns after being aca­demically ineligible for the second half of last season. 
The 6-1 junior Tim Singleton, whose 208 assists last year ranked second in school history, returns at point guard. Sophomore Elmer Bennett, one half of the "Texas Express," backs him up. 
Bennett and fellow Texas resident Daimon Sweet pro­vided plenty of excitement off the bench as freshmen last year. Sophomore guard Keith Adkins played mostly as an outside shooting specialist in his freshman season. 


They all will be joined by freshman Monty Williams, a 6­7 jumping jack who scored 30.5 points a game last season in leading his Potomac High School team to the Maryland state championship. 
"Monty Williams is a surprise, not to me, but to the people who hadn't seen him before," said Phelps. 
Notre Dame's schedule is deceiving to those people who have just seen what teams will be visiting the Joyce ACC. While Georgia Tech, Missouri and DePaul present three major home tests, the biggest competition this year comes on the road. 
The Irish must travel to Indiana, LaSalle, LSU, Duke, Houston, Syracuse and DePaul, and have a Big Four showdown 
with Louisville. 

Press here for agreat 
But Notre Dame is used to facing that kind of competition, 

data processing career. 
as most of those teams played at the JACC last year. And the

The right time. The right place. Blue Chip. Green light. State data processing equipment. You'll 
Irish ended last season on a State Farm is hiring. Farm is one of America's leading go as far and as fast as you can. 
roll, breezing past Vanderbilt If you're a senior with a data insurance companies. Through You couldn't have a more solid in the first round of the NCAA processing, computer science or innovative marketing and a proud base to build a career on. tournament and giving heavily favored Georgetown a major
math background, there may be service tradition it has become Contact your Placement 
scare in the following round. 

a very special career opportunity the nation's leading auto and Director. Our recruiter will waiting for you in one of the homeowner's insurer, and one of be on campus 11-06-89 
"We feel we can go out and

largest corporate data procesz­the top life insurance companies 
Or write Ron Prewitt, Assistant play the top teams and win, not

ing facilities in the country. in the country. 
Director, Home Office Personnel just stay close for three­

There are actuarial and audit­You'll receive expert training. 
Relations, One State Farm Plaza, quarters of the game," said ing jobs open, too. You'll work on state-of-the-art Bloomington, Illinois 61701. Jackson. "We hope by March 
that we're one of those top teams." 


page 16 The Observer Wednesday, November 1, 1989 
Soccer Miami is looking to rebound after FSU 
continued from page 24 
four. Some missed chances and defensive lapses marked the other two losses and the three ties, yet the Irish were never thoroughly outplayed or embarrassed. 
Coach Grace's team emerged admirably from a challenging schedule. A young Irish team gained valuable experience playing great competition. They also captured the MCC North Division's #1 seed. This last accomplishment is a helpful stepping stone toward the overall MCC title, which brings with it an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament. 
Winning the MCC will be quite a task for this Irish team. It is one challenge, however, that the team is anxious to undertake. Said Coach Grace, "I know I can speak for myself and the team when I say we are more than ready to leave for Saint Louis (the site of the tournament) and play our first match." 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. (AP) ­The Miami Hurricanes' first loss of the year and second in 50 regular-season games has been reflected in Coach Dennis Erickson's mail this week. 
"There haven't been any checks," Erickson joked Tuesday. "It's ugly, but that's all right. ... I'm not going to resign." 
Miami (6-1) dropped from second to seventh in the AP poll after Saturday's 24-10 loss to Florida State at Tallahassee, but the first-year coach predicted the Hurricanes will rebound quickly. 
"They have a great attitude and great character and they'll come back," said Erickson, whose team plays East Carolina at home Saturday. 
"The biggest thing we can do to take the sting of the loss out is to come out Saturday and play well, play like we're capable of and get our confidence back. 
"They took it very hard. The thing about losing when you're not used to losing is it hurts." 
Junior quarterback Craig Erickson, who started Miami's first four games, rejoined contact drills on Tuesday after missing three games with a broken knuckle on his throwing hand. Redshirt freshman Gino Torretta played well in Erickson's absence until he threw four interceptions against Florida State. 
Erickson will start against 


To Education Department Students, Department Student Workers & Student Volunteers: 
Thank you, thank you, thank you for your help with the NCATE review process. We are enormously proud of you! Sue Bryant Gene Campanale Corrine McGuigan Gene Nuccio Mary Ann Traxler Karilee Watson Sylvia Whitmer 
East Carolina (4-2-1) if he's sharp in practice, the coach said. 
"We'll see how Craig comes along," Coach Erickson said. "Right now he's probably 80 percent." 
He said it's uncertain whether the interceptions against Florida State damaged Torretta's confidence. 
"We really won't know until we go down the road," Erickson said. "Lack of ex­perience in a big game was a reason for a couple of the mistakes he made. Believe me, Gino is going to play a lot of football and have a lot of suc­cess here." 
Miami's six opponents prior to Florida State have a combined record of 14-30-1. The easy games in the first half of the season might have hurt the Hurricanes, Erickson said. 
"I always think the tougher schedule you play, the better you play," he said. 
The November schedule is tougher. After East Carolina, the Hurricanes visit Pittsburgh (5-1-1), play host to San Diego State (4-3-1) and then meet No. 1 Notre Dame (7-0) in Miami. 
"My biggest concern is us getting ready to play and getting back on the winning track, because we're an ex­tremely good team," Erickson said. 
Success can be a maHer of making the right connections. 
Reporting &Writing 0 Magazine Publishing 0 Broadcast Journalism 0 
Newspaper Management 0 0 Medii I 
Advertising 0 Corporate PR 0 Direct Marketing 0 
Make a connection. A Medii! representative will be at 
An lnformalional Session and Individual Interviews -Monday, November 6, 1989 
Orcalll/312/491-5228 
Medill School of Journalism Graduate Programs Northwestern University 

The University of Notre Dame Warmly Welcomes 
Michael P. Esposito, Jr. 
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER OF THE 
Chase Manhattan Bank 
AND ALUMNUS OF 
The University Of Notre Dame 
Mr. Esposito is hosting a reception on November 1, at the University Club, Upper Level, from 7 to 9 p.m., and warmly extends an invitation to all students and faculty who are interested in a discussion about career opportunities in finance at Chase. 
CHASE 

The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. 
33 Maiden Lane

''''!!::::::iillll 
New York, New York 10081 
Wednesday, November 1, 1989 The Observer page 17 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Basketball ticket sales will continue today. Sophomores, grad and law students may buy tickets today and freshmen on Thursday. Tickets for the 11 home games are $55 for lower arena and $44 for bleachers. 
The Ski Club will hold a meeting tonight in Room 118 of the Nieuwland Science Building. There will be sign-ups for team try-outs and the Christmas trip to Jackson Hole. For information call 3662 or 2962. 
Synchronized Swin Club will have a mandatory practice on today at the Rockne Memorial Pool from 4:30-6 p.m. Call Katie or Jackie at 2626 or 4161 if you cannot make it. 
Non-Varsity Athletics deadlines for men's and women's interhall, grad and club basketball, interhall hockey, wallyball, turkey shoot, who's who in hoops and flag football drive for paralysis will be Nov. 8. Call NVA at 239­6100 for more information. 
JACC Court Reservations for volleyball and basketball will be done according the following procedures: Requests must be submitted on the "Court Reservation Form" available at NVA . They will be accepted starting 9 a.m. Nov. 1 and not later than 5 p.m. Nov. 15. Failure to use the allotted time on two occasions will lead to the cancellation of remaining schedule;. All reservations must start and end on the hour assigned. After Nov. 20 weekly reservations may be allowed if time available. Reservation requests must be submitted in the NVA office. 
ND may head to Orange Bowl 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) ­Bowl bids are still weeks away, but circumstances have brought Notre Dame and the Orange Bowl closer together in a potential match with the winner of Saturday's Colorado­Nebraska game. 
The vagaries of the college football season and self­interests, however, keep the bowl picture highly speculative, say bowl directors and Notre Dame. 
"Everybody in the world is doing everything they can to come up with what the public would consider a national championship game," says John Heisler, sports information director for Notre Dame. 
With previously undefeated Miami beaten Saturday by Florida State, a Notre Dame appearance at the Orange Bowl grew increasingly likely. "That's the most logical thing right now, if we remain 
STUDENT SMOKERS Get a "Fresh Start" 
The American Cancer Society in cooperation with University Health Services will offer "Fresh Start" a four session smoking cessation program: 
DATES: November 7,9,14 &16 
TIME: 7:00pm-8:15pm LOCATION: Room 300 Health Services Bldg. ENROLLMENT: call University Health Services 
(239-7497) by Monday, November 6th 
It's time to "Leave the Pack Behind" 

Not going home for Thanksgiving? 
Don't let the turkeys get you down!! ND Alumni Association/Student Government Thanksgiving Holiday Host Program 
Thursday, Nov. 23 -Thanksgiving Day Brunch in Alumni homes within the South Bend area Friday, Nov. 24-Community Service Project Saturday, Nov. 25-Miami football extravaganza at the JACC (15-ft. screen) Sunday, Nov. 26-Holiday Mass at Stepan Center 

unbeaten," said Heisler. 
But with bowl bids not out until November 25, neither has a lock on the other. 
"I don't think it's a certainty," said Mickey Holmes, executive director of the Sugar Bowl, from his New Orleans office. "Certainly the Orange Bowl is in the catbird seat, because they're sitting there with No. 2 and No. 3 playing each other this week. But if Nebraska should win, there's a possibility that Oklahoma could upset Nebraska. That's such a great rivalry." 
In Miami, Orange Bowl executive director Steve Hatchell says the catbird seat is comfortable, if uncertain. "We're playing the what-if game, hoping it works out. I still think there are some significant games to come." 
Notre Dame last appeared in the Orange Bowl in 1975, when the Irish beat Alabama 13-11. Two years later, Holtz took his Arkansas team there and upset Oklahoma. 
"We'd be thrilled to have 
Notre Dame in our game," said 
Hatrhell. 
The likelihood, though, 
remains guesswork. 
''I'd have a crystal ball out, I guess, if I'd say that with great surety," he said. "We're trying to do the right thing so at least from our end that table is set." 
Heisler sketches a scenario that could place Notre Dame in the Sugar Bowl against an unbeaten Alabama team, should both Colorado and Nebraska end the season with losses. 
"The powerbroker is the one who's No. 1, and that's Notre Dame," said Holmes. "Nothing is going to happen in that realm until Notre Dame has the 
opportunity to  assess  the  
situation  and  make  its  
decision."  

There's no evidence from Notre Dame that's happened. 
"I have not talked to anybody at Notre Dame (about bowls)," said Irish Coach Lou Holtz, commenting on rumors Notre Dame would accept an early bid from the Orange Bowl. 
"Why would we want to make a deal right now?" Heisler asked. "As long as we're unbeaten and we're No. 1, we have the option of everybody coming here and talking to us." 

MODELS NEEDED Trend Update Seminar The Latest in: PERMS-CUTS-COLOR FREE All work done by Licensed Professionals CALL NOW OR VISIT THE SALON AT U.P. MALL 
*25% Student Discount Everyday 
·~... TEC~Irif
~ BEST. 
• omputer Science. 
• Physics. Electrical Engi­neering. Meteorology. Atmo­
spheric Sciences. The Air Force is seeking qualified technical special­ists to assume immediate respon­sibilities. As an Air Force profes­sional you can enjoy great pay and benefits -with 30 days of vaca­tion with pay per year and oppor­tunities to advance.·lf you're the technical best, talk to the Air Force. Call 
OFFICER PROGRAMS 1-800-423-USAF TOLL FREE 
The Director of Admissions at Georgetown University LawCent.er will be meeting with students Friday, November 10 1:30-3:30 in the Hesburgh Library Conference Room. 
Sign up with Phyllis Sandfort Career Center 
A! 
, 


page 18 
Cub's Zimmer awarded the NL Manager of the Year 
NEW YORK (AP) -Don Zimmer was named National League Manager of the Year 
Tuesday  for  leading  the  
Chicago Cubs  to  the  East  
Division  title,  his  first  

championship as a manager. 
Zimmer, who was run out of Boston for not leading the Hed Sox to a division title in the late 1970's, recieved 23 of 24 first­place votes from a panel chosen by the Baseball Writers Association of America. San Francisco's Hoger Craig, a close friend and former teammate of Zimmer, got the other first-place vote. 
"You feel like you want to share it with everybody who played a part," Zimmer said, "the players who did the playing and Jim Frey, who hired me and got criticized for doing it. It just seemed like every move he made helped out the club." 
Zimmer got 118 points in the 5-3-1 voting and Craig, who received 17 second-place votes, got 62. Whitey Herzog of St. Louis was third with 31 points and Art Howe of Houston was fourth with four points. Jack McKeon of San Diego got one point. 
The 58-year-old Zimmer was named manager of the Cubs on Nov. 20, 1987, replacing Frank Lucchesi. Chicago finished 77­85 in 1988 and improved to 93­69 this year, winning the division by six games over New York. 
The Cubs were 9-23 in spring training, the worst record in the majors. Zimmer was criticized but the team's play reversed as soon as the season started. 
"Coming out of spring training, we weren't too good," Zimmer said. "We were terrible. I didn't think we were that bad even though I was saying that and people were laughing at me. But I thought the 10 pitchers we had were a lot better than last year." 
Chicago was seventh in the league with a 3.43 EHA and led the league in hitting at .261. 
"You have to give the players the credit," Zimmer said. "I don't know how many times I said it, but I never threw a pitch and I never hit a ball. All I can do is manage the way I want to manage." 
Zimmer was villified when Boston blew a 14 1/2-game lead in 1978 and eventually lost the AL East to New York in a playoff. The Red Sox were 411­304 during his 4 1/2 seasons but he got very little credit. 
But as the Cubs won their second NL East title in five years, Zimmer was proclaimed a genius. He found that a little humorous, especially after Chicago lost to pennant to San Francisco in live games and he was criticized for some of his moves. 
"I was a dummy the last three games we played, a total dummy, but that's baseball,'' Zimmer said. "I didn't do anything differen~ the last three games we played except the decisions I made didn't turn out too good. 
"In the playoffs, we did not play well and every move I made didn't turn out right. But we clinched this thing in Montreal and I was pretty smart," he said, half-jokingly. "But after we played the Giants, I got dumb in a hurry." 
Zimmer, a .235 hitter in 12 m aj or -1 e ague s e as on s , managed in the minors from 1967-70. He coached for Montreal in 1981 and was a coach with San Diego when he replaced Preston Gomez in April 1972. He led the Padres to a 114-190 record but was fired after the 1973 season. 
He then went to Boston as a coach until he became manager in 1976. 
The Observer Wednesday, November 1, 1989 
AP Photn 
The Chicago Cubs' Don Zimmer was named the 1989 National League manager of the year yestergay. Zimmer lead the Cubs to the National League East Divisional Championship with a 93-69 record this year. 
NBA great Elvin Hayes one of sixteen nominated for the Baketball Hall of Fame 
SPRINGFIELD, Mass. (AP) ­Premier pivotmen Elvin Hayes and Bob Lanier were among 16 people nominated for election to the Basketball Hall of Fame on Tuesday, but former NBA Commissioner Larry O'Brien asked his name be withdrawn over disapproval of the secretive process. 

Hayes and Lanier, dominant collegiate players who each played in eight NBA All-Star games, were nominated for the first time as were players Nate Archibald and Calvin Murphy and former Marquette coach AI McGuire. 
Players renominated for possible enshrinement were Earl Monroe, Dave Bing, Walt Bellamy, Larry Foust and two women -former UCLA and 

The University Directories are in!! 
Off campus and graduate students, please pick them up at the secretary's desk on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. 
On-campus students contact your RA or Hall President. 


Coordinated between Student Government and HPC. 

• 
Olympic star Ann Meyers and Nera White, who led her 
Nashville-based  team  to  10  
consecutive  AAU  
championships.  
Also  renominated  were  

coaches Jack Hartman, Jack Ramsay and Wil Robinson and sportscaster Curt Gowdy, who served as president of the Hall of Fame for seven years. 
Election requires 18 votes from the 24-member Honors Committee and inductees are announced in February. 
There are 168 players, coaches and contributors and four teams in the Hall of Fame. The first women were enshrined in 1984. 
O'Brien is the second nominee to ask out of the election process. Indiana coach Bob Knight asked that he not be considered for renomination after failing to gain election in 1987. 
O'Brien, a Springfield native who was also nominated last year as a contributor, said he tried unsuccessfully to open the elections during his tenure as Hall of Fame president in 1984 and 1985. 
"I have no quarrel with the Hall of Fame and would consider election a high honor, but I'm a guy who believes in the democratic process," O'Brien said. 
"Just to come this close is glorious. When I heard about it, I got those old high school butterflies in my stomach," said the 5-foot-9 Murphy. 

Wednesday, November 1, 1989 The Observer page 19 
• I 
j 
CROSSWORD

Wednesday 
ACROSS 24 Cozy 55 Kind of 
3:30 p.m. Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering pre­
saxophone28 Actress Ekberg 

sents, "Fluid Mechanics and Flow Measurement," by Ge­1 Pops 
_58 Ballet, e.g. 

orge Mattingly, Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 5 Soft mineral 29 Procrastinates 
59 Casaba

7 p.m. Hesburgh Public Service Program lecture, "Doing 9 Raised 33 Realtor: Abbr. 
61 Charismatic

Public Service Through Electoral Politics," by Tim Roe­
13 Lamb'~."Essays 36 "-Kapital" leader 
mer, Hesburgh Library Lounge. of­
62 Crude person 14 President of 
37 Mercury. for one 65 Colombian city 38 UnsoiledCosta Rica 
66 A son of Seth 16 Level 
43 Electrician-
67-for
inventor:

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 17 Drivel (represent)
1857-1943

Cajun Chicken Sweet & Sour Meatballs 
18 Israeli 68 Writer Ludwig Ham & Broccoli RoliUps French Waffies statesman 
44 Tuition 69 To-(as yet) 
Rotellini Roast Pork Loin 45 Evergreen tree
19 As for 10 Slips
Knockwurst Deli Bar 
46 Purpose 22 Dam. of Otto 4S Poet Markham 20 Of musical pitch 71 Radio's "Vic and 
" 23 Thailand. once 51 Adamant; steely 
DOWN 

1 Liability · ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 2 Admit 



A public serv1ce message from The Observer 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
'(EM-\, I SPENT 1>-.Ll 
Lt>ST E~EJ-\\1-\G 00 \T. DID 
'(()\) ? 

'NHL, Y-1\11:.1'\ ~0\l Kt-\Ov-J 1\S MUCH "Bt>.\5 ·. 1\1£ 
1>-.'S I \A), IT BIG B\JG­lXJE.St\TlAKE f>S SC<YJRGE lOI\G. \1\\~t f(Jj{.. Or TI-\E A.Bc;JT IS 1'111!-\\lTES. SKIES:' 
I 3 Moon goddess 4 Vast arid area 5 Bill s"We-the 
World" 25 Verdi opera 40 Dog in "Peter 53 Woolly beast of 7 Airy: almost 26 RR stops Pan" burden weightless 27 Trucking rig 41 Unites 54 Kind of aEgypt's capital 30 A.B.A. member geometry
42 Cut down 9 Stiff hairs 31 Whiffenpoof's 55 Like a graybeard 
47 Salvershome 56 Kind of moth 
49"0,­
32 Large amount fortune's fooll": 57 Student's pony 
33 Play opener Shak. so Shade of green 
34 Valley 35 Rorschach ­
50 Certain relatives 63 Scull 39 Bar of a sort 52 Hang limply 64 Approves 
BILL WATIERSON 
1\<:i\E \1\E 
l'ROtE.S'S\0\'<.t>--l 

CLEI>.R I'LI>.'SIIC. 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
B\1\DI:.R. 


Cow philosophy. 
... 
1 



,............................................................................................................................................................................................. 
~ --~ 
I Snite Awareness Week TICKET.SALES start today for I I *FREE Student Membership Sign-Up The Second City I1 O'Hara Room, LaFortune Touring Company I 
14

~ -p.m. LaFortune Info Desk 12-5 p.m. ~ I Wednesday, November 1 *Saturday Night Live style I 
~ *TOURS of Snite Museum comedy on· stage! ~ I 4:3o & 7:3op.m. II Thursday, November 2 I 
I*MOVIE "Women on the Verge of 7:30 & 9:30p.m. II a Nervous Breakdown" Friday, November 3 sTuDENTUNioNBOARP I 
.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 

The Observerr/ File Photo Notre Dame soccer heads into the MCC Tournament as the No. 1 seed after completing the regular season with a 9-6-3 mark. In their final reguar seaon game at Krause field, The Irish lost to Bowling Green, 1­
0. 
.. 
to reach the Rockies 
The slogan has changed, but the goal of the Notre Dame basketball team remains the same. So does the Irish roster, with one notable addition. 


Every single player returns from the squad Steve Megargee
that recorded a 21-9 record and advanced to Associate Sports Editor 
the second round of the NCAA tournament last season. That team, without any seniors, had the motto "Battle to Seattle" to symbolize its goal of reaching the Final Four. 
With the 1990 Final Four heading to the Rockies, the Notre Dame motto this season is "Remember, it's Denver." It's a tad less catchy, but Digger Phelps realizes he does not have to sell this team to anyone. 
Season basketball tickets are on sale to students this week at the Joyce ACC ticket office. 
''I'm as excited as the kids are about what we've got in front of us," said Phelps, entering his 19th year as the Irish head coach. "These kids smell what they have in front of them as far as the potential to get to Denver." 
Under Phelps, the Irish have enjoyed six consecutive 20­win seasons, but have advanced past the second round of the NCAA tournament on only one occasion (1986-87) during that stretch. 
Particularly before last season's Battle to Seattle cam­paign, Phelps critics contended that the Irish coach was content with winning 20 games and reaching the NCAAs, not being concerned of how far his team went in the tour­nament. 
Phelps argues that he aims for an NCAA tit!~ every sea­son. 
"I've had 20 years of major disappointments," said Phelps, whose 1979-80 team reached the Final Four. "Who doesn't want to win the national championship? No matter where you are, you want to win it. 
"I won't let it control me or dominate me, but whenever we have the chance to go after it, you go after it." 
Notre Dame is ranked in nearly every p·ublication's pre­season top 20 polls, despite playing a schedule that one magazine has called the toughest in the country and being without star forward LaPhonso Ellis for the first several games of the year. 
"LaPhonso's our best player, and as a team, we knw that it may take two to three guys to make up, but somehow we'll get it done," said senior guard/forward Jamere Jack­son. "It may be a blessing in disguise. Keith Tower and Scott Paddock will develop. It will make us a stronger team." 
see HOOPS I page 15 
road battle with Fighting lllini 
By MOLLY MAHONEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 

The mention of Champagne brings to mind just one thing for the Notre Dame volleyball team-and its not a celebration. 
The last time the Irish were in Champagne, Ill. to do battle with Illinois in front of a boisterous home crowd in Kenney Gym, they fell to the Illini in five games in the second round of the NCAA Tournament. 
They don't want to stage a repeat performance. 
"This game means a lot to us because Illinois ended our season last year after getting our first NCAA bid," senior captain Kathy Cunningham said of tonight's showdown. 
"They ended up going to the Final Four and we only lost to them in five games so we want to settle the score this year." 
The Irish spent more than two hours exchanging blows with the then fourth-ranked Illini before ending what had been the program's most successful year ever and this year they will be looking for revenge. 
Notre Dame picked up some momentum last week downing . Butler with relative ease 15-10, 15-8, 15-13 and then taking to 
the  road  to  capture  the  
Academic  Classic  at  
Northwestern.  

The Irish beat Duke in five games, 7-15, 15-13, 4-15, 15­
10. 15-10 and then defeated host Northwestern in four games, 15-6, 15-10, 13-15, 15­13 to win the Classic. 
But despite bounding into their Minnesota match Sunday with renewed optimism, the Golden Golphers tripped up the Irish in three games, to drop Notre Dame to 10-11 on the year. 
They will need freshmen outside hitter Alicia Turner, who garnered Most Valuable Player honors at the Academic Classic, to help rally the squad against Illinois. 
Turner leads the team with 278 kills and 35 service aces and has been getting help at the net from mighty mite Tracey Shelton, who at a mere 5'6 made her presence felt at the Classic as well, recording a team-high 18 kills and 19 digs in the team's win over Northwestern. 
Junior Colleen Wagner has been a force as of late as well, joining Turner and Shelton on the Academic Classic All­Tournament team, chiefly for the 11 kills and 17 digs she contributed to Notre Dame's win over the Blue Devils. 
The Irish will look to Cunningham, who leads the team with 79 total blocks, to put up a road block at the net against the lllini. 
see Illinois/ page 13 

Irish hoop season tickets on sale 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame men's basketball student ticket sales started out briskly on Monday, but tailed off a bit on Tuesday, leaving 
plenty of available  seats  for  
those who  wish  to  purchase  
their tickets  in the  next  two  

days. 
Notre Dame seniors filled approximately 500 seats on Monday, giving Ticket and Merchandising Manager Bubba Cunningham cause for optimism, as the number of tickets sold on the first day was significantly higher than last year. 
"If we go at this pace, we'll easily sell out the lower arena seats and get a pretty good chunk of the bleachers filled," Cunningham said early Monday afternoon, "We were concerned after last year's sales because they were very low, but so far I've been pleasantly surprised." 
Sales slowed considerably on Tuesday, but Cunningham is expecting a large turnout at the ticket booths today. He says that the $55.00 lower arena seats have sold much faster than the $44.00 bleacher seats thus far. Cunningham believes that this may be due to the fact that the price for the total season ticket package of 11 games is lower than the $80.00 stipend which students forked over for lower arena seats for 16 games last year, although the price for these seats remains $5.00 per game. 
This year's basketball schedule includes preseason Top Twenty teams such as UCLA, and Missouri. The season ticket package includes all of these games, but does not grant students admission to the games against Valparaiso, Lafayette, and Butler which are 
scheduled  during Christmas  
Break.  
Sophomores,  graduate  

students, and law students wishing to purchase men's basketball tickets should bring their ticket applications, I.D.'s and checks or cash to the Gate 10 ticket office of the JACC today between 1:30 and 6:00. One litudent may present a maximum of 4 applications and 
I.D. cards in exchange for tickets. 




