-~ 

VOL. XXIII NO. 66 MONDAY , DECEMBER 11, 1989 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Non-communists control govt. in Czechoslovakia 
PHi\GUE. Czechoslovakia (i\P) -i\ goVPrnment controlled by non-Communists took pow1~r Sunday for the first time in 41 years. and tens of thousands of people jammPd thP nation's strPf'.ts to cPlebrate the historic victories of their peacpful revo­lution. 
• New gov't officials lifted from obscurity/ page 6 
PrPsident Gustav llusak. the nation's last old-guard Com­munist leadPr. resigned after swearing in the nnw govern­nwnt. which includes two men who were persecuted as _dissi­dents until just two weeks ago. 
In a key compromise. the Jus­tice Ministry, which runs the nation's hated secret and uni­fornwd police, will be run by a leading dissident. the new Communist premier and a Communist Party member pro­posed by the opposition. 
The new 21-member govern­ment contains 10 Communists. two of whom enjoy opposition support, seven non-party mem­bers and two members each from the small Socialist and People's parties, which recently · broke ties with the Communists. 
Mon~ than 100,000 people crammed Prague's Wenceslas Square to hear opposition leader Vaclav lfavel. 53, and other dissidents who battled jail and harassment for 13 years catalogue the successes of their fight for democracy. 
The embattled Communists have granted stunning conces­sions, including the opening of borders, the promise of free elections and the elimination of their monopoly on power. 
see CZECH I page 6 


Where's the ball? 
The Observe riP. Alan Kusek 

Dillon residents desperately scan the ground for a lost football this weekend, as an interlude to their 
game on the South Quad. 

Laundry surviving fire may be picked up 
By MONICA YANT 
News Writer 
StudPnts. facultv. and staff may claim rloth1;s that had bnPn at St. \-1ichaPI's Laundry for dry c!Paning or "speci<{l wash" bPforP the Nov. 16 lire. said HobPrt ZPrr. director of Hisk \-lanagPnwnt and Safety. 
llowPvPr. individuals with clothing at tlw wgular laundry will have to fill out claim forms to lw rPimbursPd for items damaged or lost in tlw lirP. 
Approximately 90 pPrcent of tlw rlotlws droppnd off for dry cleaning wPrP not damagPd. If rlotlws wPfP destroyed. or un­satisfactorily c!Paned, a claim form for reimbursement can be completed. Zerr said. 
i\ claim CPnt1~r will be set up in Loftus Sports CPnter from Dec. 11-15, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Individuals must bring their laundry tag or receipt to claim their clothes. 
The reimbursement policy for n~gular liumdry lists approxi­mate n~iling purchase prices for the laundered goods and the amount to be reimbursed for nach item. Heimbursements will not nxceed 60 percent of tlw original valw~. the policy statns. For example, individuals who lost drnss shirts. with a ceiling cost of $30 dollars, will be rPimbursed $18 dollars. 
Those who lost jeans will re­cnivn approximately $24 dol­lars. whiln each pair of socks will be n~placed with $2.40. 
For clothing not specifically listed. students are being asked to estimate price and purchase date so a reimbursement amount can be determined. 
Fifty percent of the clothes in dry cleaning and "special wash" belonged to students, said Guadalupe Garcia, director of St. Michael's. She said "special wash" was no different than regular cleaning, except that it involved starching and hanging the laundry, which was picked up by the individuals them­selves. 
Garcia said the dry cleaning and "special wash" is in perfect condition. "If anything would have happened to it," she said, "we would have known by now." All the laundry was cleaned a second time to elimi­nate any smoke odors. 
Upon claiming the dry clean­ing, individuals must sign a re­lease form stating they accept the condition of the items as satisfactory and release St. Michael's from any future lia­bility, Zerr said. 
Zerr said he hopes the claim­ing of dry cleaning can be ac­complished within the week. He also said that students f'illing out the claims to be reimbursed for regular laundry should try to do so before Dec. 22. 
Reimbursements are slated to 

begin at the end of January, 
Zerr said. 
This week declared drunk driving week 

By JOHN ZALLER 
News Writer 
National Drunk Driving Week, an event designed to raise awareness of drinking and driving during the holi­day season, begins today. 
In conjunction with the week, Bacchus, a campus­based group whose purpose is to promote responsible decision making about drink­ing and the awareness of the effects of alcohol, has orga­nized its annual "Tie One On" campaign, to help students understand the importance of not drinking and driving. 
Students will be asked to pledge not to drink and drive during the holiday season and for the entire year. For each student who makes this pledge, a ribbon will be tied to the tree. Each class will have a different color rib­bon. 
"Hopefully we'll have a full tree and all the students will participate," said Julie Con­nors, president of Bacchus. Connors emphasized the im­portance of this week, not­ing that if students are more aware of the dangers in­volved with drinking and driving they will be less likely to attempt driving after al­cohol consumption and more likely to assign a designated driver. 
"The tree will be a visible sign to students that drink­ing and driving is very dan­gerous," Connors added. 

Environmental concerns confront U.S. in the 1990s 
(i\P) In a simpler time. not so long ago, environ­mentalists talked about saving forests for hiking, streams for rafting and clean air for the pure enjoyment of breathing it. 
Now, as the 1990s approach, 
• Garbage problems loom in the 1990s/ page 5 
the talk has turned to the science of survival -saving forests for oxygen, keeping streams from spreading toxic pollutants, cleaning the air to avoid catastrophic global warming. 
From the hazy vantage point of 1989, the environment looms as the major global issue of the next decade. The threat of an environmental cataclysm is re­placing nuclear holocaust as the scariest menace to civiliza­tion. 
The World Bank, long dis­missed by environmentalists as ecologically insensitive, now calls the environment its lead­ing priority for the 1990s. President Bush called the '90s "the era for clean air." 
i\nd the Worldwatch Institute, an environmental research or­ganization, calls the 1990s "the turnaround decade" in which people will either stop polluting or face an environmental disas­ter as devastating as nuclear war. 
"By many measures, time is running out," Worldwatch warned in its "State of the World 1989" report. 

Not everyone shares Worldwatch's apocalyptic vi­sion, which is based largely on the threat of global warming ­the "greenhouse effect." Many respected scientists say the available evidence doesn't war­rant the doomsday warnings. 
But few doubt that environ­mental issues will be paramount in the coming years. If nothing else, the '90s are likely to be a decade of un­precedented research into envi­ronmental problems as scien­tists try to solve 19th-and 20th-century problems before people start mucking up the 21st. 
The environmental agenda in the '90s will include: 
• Clean air. Perhaps no envi­ronmental issue will be as sharply felt. In Los Angeles, au­thorities will try to change a way of life by starting to wean commuters off gasoline-pow­ered automobiles in the 1990s. The rest of the nation undoubt­edly will follow that lead. Already, a congressional committee has voted to adopt California's tough new stan­dards for anti-pollution equip­ment on cars. 
• 
Ozone depletion. In cities, ozone is a toxic pollutant spewed out by cars, but high in the atmosphere it's a vital gas shielding the Earth from dan­gerous ultraviolet rays. That shield is being destroyed by yet another human pollutant ­chlorofluorocarbons -and the consequences are expected to include increased rates of skin cancer and cataracts. 

• 
Extinction of species. Largely because of the burning of tropical rain forests, entire species of animals, plants and insects are becoming extinct at the fastest rate in human his­tory. 


All these concerns will be sec-
see POLLUTE I page 4 

I 
I 
j j 
_j 

r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
t 
~ 
t 
f 
I • 
page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Christmas TV won't be same without Grinch 
Dr. Seuss is a ---------------­
genius. lie must have been to create the in­famous Grinch who stole Christmas. The Grind1 is the ultimate scoundrel. The Oscar ~ the Grouch of holiday .. television. I can see him no~. a Sarah Voigt dour frown on his 
News Copy Editor
faee, glaring down at 

the unsuspecting ---------
Whos down in Whoville. I can almost hear 
his Grinch lingers nervously drumming as 
he plots his revenge on the happy Whos for 
enjoying Christmas. 

The Grinch's perversity has always fasci­nated me. I know his heart is two sizes too small, but is Christmas that unbearable? !low ean the waiflike Whos inspire such hatred and bitterness? 
The Grinch is not the only Christmas villain who is the antithesis of happiness and generosity. The Bumble from "Hudolph the Hed-Nosed Heindeer" beats the Grinch in his ability to frighten young children. !lis terror fades, however, when kids notice his googly eyes and goofy grin. 
Scrooge, from Dicken's "A Christmas Carol," is certainly nasty enough to be a Christmas villain. But he doesn't capture the imagination like Dr. Seuss' creation. Heat Miser is popular on campus. but he's fading out of the picture because "The Year Without A Santa Claus" is shown infre­quently. 
Despite stilT competition, the Grinch sur­passes all other Christmas characters in the four crucial qualities of an effective villain. 
• Gnwd. After the Grineh stripped the Who houses of Christmas decorations and presents, the only speek of food left was too small for the Who mice. Scrooge may have been more miserly. but he wasn't nearly as 
thorough. 

• 
Cleverness. Dressed like Santa Claus, the Grinel1 fooled Cindy Lou Who when she caught him stuning the tree up the chimney. I still don't understand how she didn't notice the entire room was stripped down to hooks and some wirn. It will have to remain an unsolved mystery, along with why the Grineh won't be aired on television this year. 

• 
Bitterness. Glaring down at Whoville from his dank. dark cave, the Grinch's resentment of the Whos for their joyous singing is irrational and plain mean. Heat Miser may be vengeful, but his personal vendetta isn't as bitter as the Grineh's. 

• 
Mercilessness. This word best describes how the Grinch treats his meek dog Max and the Whos. The heartless Grinch shows no rnerey when he forces Max to haul the sled down to Whoville. The Whos are easy victims. The dumb Bumble had a rnueh tougher time tracking down Hudolph and llerrnie the Dentist. 


Until that fateful day when the he carves the Who roast beast, the Grinch is the per­feet Christmas villain. This Christmas season will just not be the same without his wicked seowl and grinchish antics. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7 4 71 
Production Accent
Today's Staff: 

Karen Newlove Robyn Simmons Wendy Cunnigham Business Shonda Wilson 
Liz Panzica Joe Zadrozny Viewpoint Lauren Deluca Kim Skiles Maureen Gallagher Dave Brunner Melissa Gorham Ad Design
Day Staff Maria Blohm 

Julie Parker 

Systems Shannon Roach Amalia Mieir Ryan Roberts Dan Towers Kerry Clain 
News Graphics Tiim O"Keefe Bradford J. Boehm Sandra Wiegand Spoi1S 
Mary Garino 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publis~ed Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer Monday, December 11, 1989 
WEATHER 
70 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 
® © rn' ~ IT] [3 ~ 
h 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
OF INTEREST 
The Weekly Bulletin is available for seniors Of Interests may be submitted to The Observer in the Career and Placement Services office now. Sign ups office, third floor LaFortune Student center, 9 a.rn.-5 p.m. for the first two weeks of invitational interviews during Of Interests are for free, one-time events of general the spring semester end on Monday, December 18. interest. 
WORLD 
Five Central American presidents opened a two-day meeting in San Jose, Costa Rica on Sunday. Frustrated and pessimistic, they were hoping the two su­perpowers will help secure peace for the region. "We must face that reality" that the superpowers' help is needed, said Costa Rican Foreign Minister Hodrigo Madrigal, who commented on the presidents' discussions. He added that regional agreements will not have much validity in those places where parties in the conflicts have close ties to the United States and the Soviet Union. 
More than 50,000 Bulgarians chanting "Democracy!" rallied in Sofia, Bulgaria Sunday in the biggest demonstration for reform since the Communists consolidated power 43 years ago. Thousands of Bulgarians, many from provincial towns outside the capi­tal. braved snow and temperatures well below freezing to show their support for 19 independent groups that orga­nized the rally. 
NATIONAL 
The decision to resume talks with China on a high level, made by President Bush six months after Beijing's bloody crackdown on pro-democracy demon­strators, was defended by Secretary of State James Baker on Sunday. Baker said Bush wants to keep the Chinese in the international community. Fighting criticism that the move was a giveaway to the Chinese government without any improvement in human rights, Baker insisted China still will be asked to make changes before relations can return to the way they were before the crackdown last June. 
The nation's first living-donor liver transplant recipient successfully underwent surgery Sunday for the second time in two days to stop bleeding on the surface of her new organ, Chicago hospital officials said. Twenty­two-month-old Alyssa Smith was taken to surgery at 10 
a.m. Sunday after an operation the night before failed to stop the bleeding, said Mary Fetsch, a spokeswoman for the University of Chicago Hospitals. 
MARKET UPDATE INDIANA 
The South Shore commuter railroad 
Closings for December 11 , 1989 
is considering adding another train to accommodate riders during the morning and evening rush hours. The additional train would 
Volume in shares
ease overcrowding on daily runs between South Bend and Chicago. Already, 14 new cars are being 144.91 Million added to existing trains to reduce congestion. The Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District will return its six-car train on loan from 
NYSE Index
Metra in Chicago. 
192.92 'i} 0.54 S&P Composite 348.69 'i} 1.10 
A prison overcrowding study by an Dow Jones Industrials Indiana committee has led participants to 2731.44 'i}1 0.66 consider a proposal to release some inmates up 
Precious Metals 
to a year early and county prosecutors already are criticizing the idea. The proposal would offer Gold 'i} $1.80 to $411.80/ oz. early release to inmates who go through 
Silver'i} 2¢ to $5.644/ oz.
educational, vocational or drug-treatment programs. Source: AP 
The Hungarian government of Communist origins is ready to surrender sole power and form a eoali­tion with opposition parties, said Premier Miklos Nemeth on Sunday, but there are no takers. "I don't blame them," Nemeth said, commenting on the refusal by other parties to share government responsibilities for a deteriorating economic situation after decades of Communist misman­agcment. 
Alexander Dubcek would accept the Czechoslovakian presidency if nominated by the people, the former leader of the failed "Prague Spring" reforms said Sunday. In an interview with the oflieial CTK news agency. the former president said he has "never aban­doned political work" since being ousted after Warsaw Pact tanks crushed his short-lived reforms in 1968. "Now that after 21 years society is on the move, I must know where my place is," Dubcek said. 
Chanting abortion-rights and AIDS activists lay down in the aisles of St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York on Sunday, forcing Cardinal John O'Connor to can­eel his sermon while police carried protesters out on stretchers. More than 4,500 demonstrators marched outside, along a stretch of Fifth Avenue normally crowded with shoppers and sightseers, chanting "Teach safe sex" and "Just say no is not enough." At least 95 people were arrested. 
A defense consultant facing charges of bribing a Marine Corps contracting official is scheduled to go to trial in U.S. District Court in Alexandria, Va. on Monday. Described by prosecutors as a major figure in the Pentagon procurement scandal, Thomas Muldoon and Leonard Ingram, a former executive of a company that hired Muldoon as a defense consultant, are accused of conspiring to pay bribes to Jaek Sherman, a one-time Marine Corps. procurement officer. 
Yesterday's high: 36 Yesterday's low: 25 
Forecast: 

today with snow showers likely. Near steady ternperature 20 to 25. Chance of snow 70 percent. Very eold tonight with the low 5 
10. Partly eloudy 
snow showers likely. Chance of snow 60 percent. lligh near 15 Tuesday. 
©1989 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
ALMANAC 

On December 11 : e In 1936: Britain's King Ed­ward VIII abdicated in order to marry American divorcee Wallis Warfield Simpson. In a radio address. Edward said he 
"would have found it impossi­
ble" to carry out his duties as 
king "without the help and support of the woman I love." e In 1937: Italy withdrew 
from the League of Nations. e In 1941: Germany and Italy declared war on the United States. e In 1961: A U.S. aircraft carrier carrying Army heli­copters arrived in Saigon --the first direct American military support for South Vietnam's battle against Communist guer­rillas. 

Monday, December 11, 1989 The Observer page 3 

Nice shot The Observer/P. Alan Kusek 
Bill Nies fires a ball at the Burke Memorial Golf Course this weekend as Chuck Nevins admires his form. 
Dalai Lama wins Nobel peace prize 
OSLO, Norway (AP) -The Dalai Lama accepted the Nobel Peace Prize Sunday and said that despite Chinese rebuffs, he rcmaim~d committed to non­violence in seeking an end to China's 40-year occupation of his Himalayan homeland, Tibet. 
"I accept the prize with pro­found gratitude on behalf of the oppressed everywhere and for all those who struggle for freedom and work for world peace," he said at a ceremony attended by King Olav V and goVf~rnment officials. 
At a whitn-tie ceremony in Stockholm. Sweden, King Carl XVI Gustaf awarded gold Nobel medallions to nine laureates who won the prizes for litera­ture, rlwmistry, physics, mPdicine and economic sciences. Six were AmPricans. 
Thn Dalai Lama said China's rejection of his 1987 peace plan was forcing him to rethink his approach and that he might withdraw his proposal. 
But, he added: "Our struggle must remain non-violent and free of hatred." 
The Dalai Lama, born Tenzin Gyastso, was chosen at age 5 as the reincarnation of Tibet's god-king, making him religious and political head of the iso­lated mountain nation. He fled into exile in India after a failed uprising in 1959. 
The Dalai Lama, 54, has called for Tibetan autonomy over domestic matters, with China retaining control over military and diplomatic affairs. Beijing has rejected the for­mula. 
On Sunday, the Dalai Lama urged discussions based "on the principle of equality, re­spect, trust and mutual bene­fit." 
He cited a treaty in the year 823 that said, "Tibetans will live happily in the great land of Tibet and the Chinese will live happily in the great land of China." 
At a news conference later he declined to discuss new peace initiatives he might be consider­ing, saying the situation in Ti­bet was too delicate. 
The Dalai Lama said the Chi­nese had "become even more repressive" since the an­nouncement in October that he was receiving the award. lie said several Tibetans were sen­tenced to up to 19 years in prison last week, "possibly ... to intimidate the population be­fore today's event." 


ORANGE BOWL 
TRAVEL PACKAGE INCLUDES GAME TICKET! 
See the Fighting Irish BEAT the Colorado Buffs! 
$ 598 
Your complete trcwellgame package includes all of these features: 
~r person quad D R d . .rf f (h' . . . 
(4 people perroom) oun tnp a1 are rom 1cago v1a Eastern A1rhnes, departing tnple. double or single December 31 and returning January 2, other dates available available on request D Deluxe accommodations at a Miami Dadeland Marriott Hotel 
American Travel D Alamo rental car with unlimited free mileage. Gas, tax, insurance MemberottheAmen:anSocielyalliuveJAQents extra. Minimum age requirements apply. Airport transfers available. andlheAmericanMarketingAssn D ORANGE BOWL GAME TICKET-seat location subject to availability 
CollegeBowlandAJumniSpecialists D Hotel and airline taxes included 
For 3shanng. $648 each. 2 s/Jarmg 5698 each. smgle. $798 Space is f1m1ted at these poces and~ available on a flrst·come. 1115l·served bos1s S1m1/ar hole/ may be substJtulea Standard trove/ package 1erms apply 
STUDENT RCTIUITIES 
EC takes big steps towards unification 
STRASBOURG, France (AP) -The 12-nation European Community, under pressure to integrate in the face of upheaval to the East, took dramatic steps on the path to­ward uniting Europe at a week­end summit here. 
It remains a rocky and uncertain road, with British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher maintaining a lone stance against plans for eco­nomic and monetary integra­tion and community-wide wel­fare and workers' rights. 
But the leaders of the wealthy club encompassing 320 million people emerged from the two­day summit declaring them­selves united in a new role as a single West European bloc committed to reaching out to­ward the emerging democracies of Eastern Europe. 
"Henceforth there is no longer a Europe in two parts acting in the shadows or at the initiative of the two superpow­ers," declared summit host, French President Francois Mit­terrand, winding up the meeting on Saturday. 
"Clearly, as of today we can say Yalta belongs more and more to history," he added of the 1945 conference at the end of World War II that divided the continent of Europe be­tween East and West. 
The rhetoric, at least, echoed a call by President Bush last week to the European Commu­nity to intensify efforts to inte­grate and become "a magnet that draws the forces of reform forward in Eastern Europe." 
But from Mitterrand, the most flamboyantly outspoken advocate of European unity, to Mrs. Thatcher, the often­prickly pragmatist, the leaders displayed a new political will to act together to encourage change and guard against an­archy. 
"Despite disagreements, what emerges most strongly from this summit is the degree to which the community ... can act as the driving force for the de­velopment of the whole of Eu­rope at a turning point in the Continent's history," Mrs. Thatcher said at a news con­ference. 
She reiterated her lone dis­
sent from the decisions to press 
ahead with the monetary union 

BOARD: 
INFORMATIONAL MEETINGS THIS WEEK FOR "NEIGHBORING TALENTS" 
TUESDAY AT  SMC  IN  HAGGAR  GAMEROOM  
6:30-7:30  
WEDNESDAY  AT  ND  IN  SORIN ROOM  AT  

LAFORTUNE 6:00-7:00 
THIS WEEK'S MOVIE: Tues-Th 9:00 &11:15 
A MIRACLE ON 34TH STREET 
and to adopt a "social char­ter." 
But she sounded conciliatory compared with her combative attitude during past bitter in­ternal disputes over issues ranging from farm subsidies to whether the community is sup­posed to be a trading bloc or an embryonic political federa­tion. • 
Mrs. Thatcher's low-key tone also may have been spurred by polls in Britain showing most voters now disapprove of her tough line in the community. A Gallup poll published Saturday in London's Daily Telegraph showed 49 percent of voters questioned disapproved, com­pared with 38 percent approval. The rest had no opinion. 
West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, who combined with Mitterrand to override Mrs. Thatcher's objections to the monetary union conference, went home well-pleased with having secured backing from the summit for eventual Ger­man reunification. 
It is a sensitive issue in a con­tinent that was overrun by Hitler's Germany in World War II and in peace is dominated by the powerful economy of West Germany alone. 
Britain apparently raised no objections to a statement of support for reunification. 
But France, the Netherlands and Italy all expressed reserva­tions. 
The final statement was agreed to only after Kohl spelled out that by a reunified Germany he meant only the two existing German nations, East Germany and West Germany, and not German-speaking areas in neighboring countries. 
"We seek the strengthening of the state of peace in Europe in which the German people will regain its unity through free self-determination," the state­ment said. 
On monetary integration, the community leaders agreed to convene an intergovernmental conference in December 1990 to start negotiations on estab­lishing a single currency and one system of central banks for the 12 countries. · 
Mrs. Thatcher said Britain 
would go along to the negotia­
tions, which are expected to 
take several years. 
-~----------------------­
page 4 
Woman gives money away at Midway Airport 
CHICAGO (AP) -Christmas came early at a motel bar near Midway Airport when a well­dressed woman walked in, wished everyone a happy holi­day and started passing out $100, $50 and $20 bills to pa­trons. 
.Judy Kelly, of Boston, said she was driving across the country competing against 40 or 50 other people in a national "trnasurn hunt" that required her to give money away, ac­cording to a truck driver at the bar who asked to remain anonymous. 
But the generosity seemed suspicious to tavern owners, who called police. Officers questioned the woman and took her to a local mental health center for an evaluation but did not arrest her, police said. 
"You might call her eccen­tric," said Tom Tandaric, one of the oflicers who questioned the woman. 
Ms. Kelly stopped Saturday afternoon at the Carlton Mid­way Motor Lounge on the city's southwest side, walked in and promptly passed out three $100 bills to three Midway Airlines employees sitting at a table, witnesses said. 
"Merry Christmas," she said to the confused trio. 
She pulled the cash from a brown paper bag in her purse. When she ran out of $100 bills, she apologized and gave out $50s. When she ran out of those, she apologized and gave out $20s. 
By one estimate she gave away $5,000, the Chicago Sun­Times reported in Sunday edi­tions. 
Garbage pileup could bury the U.S. in the next decade 
(AI')--By the end of the 1990s, you may be paying by thn pound to get rid of your garbage. Your home could have more recycling bins than trash cans. And your supermarket food will probably come with a little less super-wrapping. 
Solid-waste specialists say such changes are inevitable be­causn of an upcoming crunch on the garbage front: Half the nation's 6,000 dumps will be lilh~d and dosed in thn '90s. 
The ride into the "recycling decade" may be bumpy. Buyers for rncyded newspaper, glass and plastic are sometimes difli­eult to find. Breaking the gen­erations-old habit i>f tossing tWt)rything into one garbage can may prow• daunting. New recycling systems need hefty up-front appropriations. 
But the specialists see over­

The Observer/P. Alan Kusek

Dance-o-rama 
Another evening of synthesized dancing fun at Theodore's draws a large and enthusiastic crowd Friday night. 
whelming motivations tor change: 
• 
The cost of simply throwing things away is rising, as communities ship their garbage farther and farther away, and new environmental regulations make dump main­tlmance more expensive. 

• 
People are growing more co.ncerned about cleaning up the planet. A Media Generai-As­sociatnd Press poll earlier this year found that 87 percent of Americans would back a re­quirement to separate their trash for recycling. 


"Environmental awareness is growing by leaps and bounds," said Sylvia Lowrance, director of the Environmental Protec­tion Agency's office of solid waste. "We're going to see a lot of peer pressure, neighborly pressure on people not to throw away everything." 

In garbage, the l't.iture is also the past. Greater recycling and reuse of discarded material would represent a return to pre-World War II ways in America. including fewer-frills packaging on food products. 
"By the end of the decade, I think recycling is going to be part of the cultural fabric of society." said Bruce Weddle, di­rector of EPA's municipal solid waste program. "People will be separating out all bottles, cans, newspapers, plastics, leaves and grass clippings instead of throwing them in one can." 
The transition will not occur overnight. the experts say. But 
"even with the recalcitrant 
ones," said Lowrance, "when it 
hits their pocketbook, they are 
going to become recyclers." 
As it is now, many communi­ties go to great lengths to dump their garbage. 
Northeast states truck trash hundreds of miles to Midwest dumps. West Coast cities ship it by rail to rural landfills be­cause their hotn<)town dumps have closed. But much of the in­terstate garbage business is in jeopardy because landfills are dosing and local residents op­pose opening new ones to the out-of-state waste. 
In addition, new EPA landfill regulations due out in Decem­ber will accelerate the garbage crunch by shutting down many antiquated dumps, Lowrance said. She said the rules will re­quire dump inspections and multi-layered dump liners, 
which pnwent liquid from con­
taminating groundwater. /\bout 
80 percent of thn nation's 
dumps do not have liners. 

Although all this makes n~cy­
eling look more attractive, 
most garbag1) specialists say 
recycling almw will not solve 
the garbage crisis. 

They foresee a need to kePp establishing nnw dumps, nsJH~­eially sites serving entire re­gions, and the building of more incinerators. 
Federal of'fkials say tlw pro­portion of the nation's garbagP to go up in smoke from incin­erators could rise by the yPar 2000 to 25 percent from 10 percent. The United States now has 149 incinerators; 227 are expected to bl) on line in 1992. Incinerators have been opposed by environmentalists, concernt~d over air pollution and the problemofdisposing or toxic ash. 


Pollute 
continued from page 1 
ondary. however, to the one 
overriding issue that touches 
them all -global warming. 
The greenhouse theory has benn around for two centuries, but suddenly became the stuff of newspaper headlines during the hot, dry summer of 1988 in the United States. 
The idea is that certain gases in the atmosphere act like the glass on a greenhouse. They let 
sunlight in, but won't let its heat out. The biggest villain is 
carbon dioxide, which is re­leased when trees are destroyed and when fossil fuels such as oil or coal are burned. 
Scientists almost universally 
Sid 
ThG Mississippi 
Special Ski Package: 

•Deluxe 
motor coach transportation, includes VCR wide-body coaches 

•2 
Nights deluxe lodging at Chestnut Mtn. Resort, Galena, IL ''2 breakfasts & 2 dinners 

•3 
days of lift tickets 

•1 
group lesson 

•
All taxes, baggage fees, and meal gratuities. Tour #1 Midweek, 3 days, 2 nights 


Tues, Jan. 3 thru Thurs, Jan. 5 $202 per person 
Tour 12Weekend Fri, Feb. 9 thru Sun, Feb. 11, $255 per person 
•based on quad occupancy 
agree that the gases will cause mospherie Research, argue that "Such a change," Schneider the Earth to get warmer. "The the greenhouse effect has al­wrote recently in Scientific greenhouse effect is not a hy­ready begun and will have dev­American magazine, "would be pothesis or anything; it's one of astating effects in the next cen­unprecedented in human his­the best-established facts about tury unless radical action is tory; it would match the (9-de­the way the world works," said taken. gree) warming since the peak Gus Steth, president of the Without such action, of the last ice age 18,000 years World Resources Institute. Schneider envisions a starkly ago but would take effect be­
Th&t's where the agreement different world by the middle of tween 10 and 100 times ends; the fights begin when ex­the next century, one in which faster." perts try to guess ~hen the the average global temperature It's too late to stop the warming will occur and how will have risen by as much as 9 warming altogether, Schneider bad it will be. degrees Fahrenheit. argues, but the worst of it 
Some, such as Stephen Oceans would rise, deserts could be averted if people cut Schneider, deputy director of would spread, forests would back drastically in their use of the National Center for At-die. People would starve. fossil fuels and stopped de-

On The Feast Of Our Lady of Guadalupe 

A VOICE FOR THE POOR 
A prayer service with 
Erica Dahi-Bredine (ND '87) 

Missionary To El Sal\tador 
Tuesday, December 12 8:30p.m. Center For Social Concerns Reception to Follow 
Center for Social Concerns Institute for International Peace Studies Friends of Santa Cruz 
stroying rain forests. Other scientists believe such warnings are prmnature. 
Hichard Lindzen. a meteorol­ogy professor at the Mas­saehusetts Institute of Tech­nology, argues that climate sci­entists arc operating in a vac­uum. not a greenhouse. lie said they lack the facts to back up claims about global warming. 
"You know vPry well we can't predict the weather with any certainty,'' Lindzen said with a chuckle. 


Monday, December 11, 1989 The Observer page 5 




Anti-apartheid leaders announce militant new strategy 
Huge crowds demonstrate for more reform in E. Germany 

JOHANNESBURG, South Africa {AP) -Anti-apartheid leaders Sunday announced a militant strategy of civil dis­obedience and political pressure and urged South African whites to join them for the "final onslaught on apartheid." 
The plans were adopted late Saturday at a closed session of the largest anti-apartheid con­ference ever held in South Africa. It was attended by 
4.662 black, white, Indian and mixed-race delegates from 2,128 organizations. 
Several major black organi­zations to the left and right of mainstream anti-apartheid groups either boycotted the conference or were not invited. 
But Murphy Morobc, one the organizers. said the Conference for a Democratic Future was a "roaring success." 
"Business was concluded in a spirit of unity unprecedented in any gathering in the past with such a disparate array of or­ganizations," he said at a news conference. 
One resolution urged whites "to break decisively with all apartheid forces and side with the majority." It urged them to conduct solidarity marches into black townships and proposed a campaign to create new mu­nicipalities by merging white ci­ties and their adjoining black ghettos. 
Another resolution urged an escalation of confrontational activity by black trade unions. It said workers should be pre­pared to occupy the Johannes-
EAST BEHLIN (AI')-Tens of thousands of demonstrators demandPd morn democratic re­forms in East Germany on Sun­day. and a state-run labor union urged workers to defy a 40-year-old policy that forbids tlwm to strike. 
Gn~gor Gysi. East Germany's new Communist Party chief, said he wants a rlear separa­tion of party and government functions, a radical concept in a eountry where tlw party has been all-powerful for 40 years. 
In anotlwr development, the four World War II Allies ­

CLIP AND SAVE!o 

.. • Hours Reserved in Women's Dorms •• for Male Laundry Use 
•
•
• Breen Phillips 
•
•
• Badin
•
•
• Farley
•
•
• Howard
•
•
• Lewis
•
•
• Lyons
•
•
• Knott
•
•
• Pasquerilla E.
•
•
• Pasquerilla W. 
•
• 
Siegfried

•
•
• 
Walsh

•
•
•• Effective 12/8 Brought to you by
•
•
• Hall Presidents' Council and ~DENT 
• e.Jv1V1~ct • 1989-1990 .. 
Wed *outside laundry TuTh WTh Fri Mon Wed Mon Tu Wed Th Wed Mon Wed Fri Mon Wed 
France, Britain. the United States and the Soviet Union ­announced they would meet Monday to discuss the role of Berlin in East-West affairs. 
Tens of thousands of East Germans took to the streets in protests in HQstock, Erfurt and other cities, the official news agency ADN said. Most were demanding human rights and democratic changes, the report said. 
In the southern city of Plauen, 15,000 demonstrators turned out for a pro-democracy rally called by the New Forum oppo­burg Stock Exchange if neces­sary to prevent possible priva­tization of major state enter­prises such as the postal and transport services. 
"We call upon our people to reject capitalism and free mar­ket system," a resolution on economics said. 
Perhaps the most important resolution, Morobe said, was a demand for non-racial elections for an assembly that would draft a constitution establish­ing a one-person, one-vote sys­tem for South Africa. 
President F.W. de Klerk has rejected the concept of such an assembly. He has offered to ne­gotiate a new constitution that would extend limited political rights to the black majority of 28 million, but he wants black negotiators chosen in segre­gated elections. 
Since taking power in August, de Klerk has made several con­ciliatory moves aimed at pro­moting negotiations between blacks and the nation's 5 mil­lion whites, who control the government and the economy. lie has freed some prominent political prisoners, prohibited segregation of beaches, and permitted previously banned opposition activities, including meetings like the conference. 
However, delegates adopted a resolution saying de Klerk's proposals were "designed to enmesh our organizations and people in schemes to maintain the status quo." 
"The conference ... took the view that President de Klerk's reform initiatives are devoid of substance," Morobe said. · Other resolutions urged par­ents and students to defy school segregation policies, demanded land redistribution and urged young white men to refuse mandatory military ser­vice. Delegates also demanded appointment of an independent commission to investigate alle­gations that police death squads have killed government opponents. 
Another resolution demanded an end to the state of emer­gency imposed in June 1986. Many delegates belong to groups restricted by emergency regulations. 
Most delegates were aligned to some degree with the out­lawed African National 
I 

Congress guerrilla movement and affiliated groups in South Africa. 
The most notable absentees were Inkatha, a relatively con­servative Zulu organization op­posed to the ANC's militant tac­tics, and so-called Africanist groups, which oppose the ANC's philosophy of non-racism. 
11am-11pm 
7pm-11pm 12pm-10pm 7pm-2am 
11am-12am 11am-11pm 6pm-11pm 11am-9pm 11am-11pm 
sition group. 
Several hundred people in East Berlin demonstrated in fa­vor of human rights and against what they see as a growing intolerance of foreign­ers. About 15,000 people demonstrated in favor of hu­man rights in the city of Ilme­nau, ADN said. 
In the face of such protests, the Communist Party has ousted its hard-line leaders, lifted travel restrictions, opened the Berlin Wall and abandoned its constitutionally guaranteed hold on power -
APPhoto 

Some of the 4,500 South African delegates from across the country arrive in Johannesburg for what became the largest conference ever in South Africa. Participants came to seek ways to unite the opposition and step up pressure on the government. 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 

all in the last three months. member federation has rejected Leaders of the 160,000-mem­the right to strike, arguing that 
ber scientists' union, meeting on Saturday in Leipzig, issued the call for recognition of the right to strike, ADN said 
The scientists' union is one of 16 unions belonging to the state-run labor federation Freier Deutsche Gewer­skschaftsbund. 
The scientists' call amounts to a demand for the federation leadership to recognize the right to strike embodied in the East German Constitution. 
Since 1949, the 8.6-million 
LEARN CPR, .PLEASE• 
Take a l•fesaving 
Red Cross CPR course . 

+American Red Cross 
1m 

since the nation's businesses are "owned by the people," any strike would be against the people themselves. 
The prospect of strikes clearly alarmed Gysi, 41, who 
·took over as party chief only on Saturday. In an interview broadcast late Saturday night on West Germany's ADR televi­sion network, he said that given the country's current political instability strikes would be "irresponsible." 

1~2-J~Hij!hk"-C'I(o~n lnl~ll>tl'llf;flllroo;cr N';'l-1>~82~~1an1;;"'""ral .~the I nnt"d \,IJ~on, 1'181>-~-odcni•~ ....Nto• 

Ifthe press didn't tellus,whowould? 
To~~~~ printed mtorm11!on un Jhc mle ota-tret p.re~ .. and htlll 11 pn11ecto; ~our nghl~. nr to di..cu~' an~ free pre._,. I!>~Ut'. call 1hco fiN l.mcndmenl Center at 1-800-542-1600 . 
.  ~~ 0 .. o o  ..  ~~~~~~~~~~ .. 0 o 1" 1-i i5 t Hf\i51MAS o .  
0  0  0  0  • •1)0N'"f J)f\INK NJD 1'1\IVE.  0  
0  0  0  0  ( oA SL.eo!)  0  
0  0  0  J:n5tead ...  
0  0  0  •1'1E- oNE- or.~r_,  
o  s;..9n ---ups 'n  
Nor-th ~nd .South  
Di ni ~  Hall5 durin.9 d:nrer- 
Mono~  -Wednes~  
J)ecember-lf-th .... I..?Hi  
-------~  s'MORE5 in front of  
-.a<o  t:!!!d  field house A1al I  
~~urs~~ay1 ~··~'*th.  b ~-~·@uS  a  =·  

--~ ~ ~--~-------~~­
page 6 The Observer 
Govt. officials lifted from obscurity 
1'1{1\(;UE. Czt~dwslovakia tAI'I -Cwrhoslovakia's nnw gov­ernment rPilerts tlw bizarre re­versal of tlw nation's politics in just thrne w1wks, making a deputy pn~miN of a de-barred lawyPr just out of jail. promot­ing a stoker to thn Fondgn Ministry and a former bank dnrk to the Firutncn Ministry. 
Tlwir topsy-turvy earners arn the result of tlw Soviet-inspired crackdown aftPr rnform was cruslwd in l<J(,S. I fall' a million Communists deenwd too re­formist wPrn stripped of their party mPmlwrship, and many lost all accPSS to anything but tlw most nwnial jobs. 
Now that a swift. smooth revolution has ousll~d tlw lead­nrs of that crackdown and ovnrturrwd tlwi r policies, those who suf'f'ernd havp returrwd with rnmarkabiP PasP to take cm1ter stagP in national poli­
til~s. 
Tlw last two weeks have brought tlw nbulliPnt .Jiri I>ien­stbinr. working as a stoker since lw last got out of jail in I 9H2, baek to his original pro­fnssion, journalism -a job he lost in the crackdown on the I<J(,H "Prague Spring" reforms. 
Tlw only dif'f'pnmcn is that in­stead of writing stories, Dien­stbinr gave them out, as spokesman of the Civie Forum opposition. 
Now. he is to serve as For­eign Minister. a role Civie Fo­rum thinks he is suited for bn-
Czech 
continued from page 1 
Elsnwhere in Eastern Europe Sunday: 
• 
Mon~ than 50,000 peopln chanting "()prnoiTacy!" rallind in Sofia, Bulgaria. in thn biggnst dnmonstration for w­f'orm since thP Communists consol idated pownr there 43 ynars ago. 

• 
Tons of thousands of liast Gnrmans ralliPd in snwral cities in support of furtlwr dnmo­cratie reforms. ThP nnw East GnriiHlll Communist Party chief' said lw wants a dear separa­tion of party and governmnnt functions. 

• 
Soviet Prnsidnnt Mikhail (;orhachnv warned Communist Party leaders in Moscow that their colleaguns' fall from power in Eastorn Europn proves they must quickly solve Soviet domestic probl1~ms or facn similar "excPsses." 


Czm~hoslovakia's Parliam1mt rne1~ts Ttwsday to piek Husak's succnssor, and both llavt!l and AlnxandN Dubcnk, 6H, thn pop­ular lnader of the crushed 196H rnforrn rnoveiiwnt, have said tlwy would accept the post if norninalPd. 
"Wp haven't won yot," Jlawl told the cheering crowd in a na­tionally tnlevisnd spnnch. "But it is a great succPss. giving us gmat hopn. This is a success for all of us. both our nations. Without this spontarwous awakPning, this surrnss would not have bPPn achiPVPd." 
"This p1mcnf'ul revolution was 
against oviolnncn. d'irt. mafias, privil1~ges, persecu­tions," flavt~l said. "Let us pm­snrvn its purity. pnacnfulnnss. loV<~ and merry, friendly flair." 
"The years-long. deadly si­lencn of a humiliatPd people has b1Hm drowned out by a rnulti­voiend popular choir," lw said. 
lkfPrring to tlw poliee crack­down on studPnts Nov. 17 that mwrgiznd tlw nation's pro­dPrnocracy IIwvnrnmlt, he said: "Mtnr an artificial halt. history bPgan moving with breathtak­ing spend which surprisod all of us. Orw day. historians will study t,I,Jis and tell us what hap­pnnml. 
cause of his ability to speak fluent English and French, and his experience in thP Far East and tlw United States in the mid-I 960s as a correspondent for state radio. 
After he lost that job and his Communist Party membership, Dienstbier worked in the archive department of a design institute and wrote three books publislwd in the West, but bannPd in Czechoslovakia. 
Onee he sigm~d the Charter 77 human rights document in 1977 and bPcame a leading member of VONS, a movement keeping track of political prisoners, Di­enstbiPr found himself increas­ingly undPr police harassment. 
In May 1979, tho polieo ar­msted Dinnstbier, Vadav Havel and otlwr leading VONS ac­tivists. In November that year Dinnstbinr was sPntonced to thnw yoars in jail. Since re­leasn, lw has worked as a stohr. swapping shifts in a Pragun factory with anothnr dissidont. Petr Uhl. 
A far morn recent nx-prisorwr now in the government is Jan Carnogursky, a dissident harrod from practieing law since 1977 and a well-known Homan Catholic activist in his native Slovakia. 
Carnogursky was released from jail only two weeks ago, one of the first political prison­ers freed by President Gustav Husak as the Communists scrambled to meet tho demands 
The crowd burst into ap· plause and cheers as Havel listed the achievements of the Civic Forum opposition move­
ment, and its Slovak countf~r­part. Public Against Violonce, 

GOLF SHOP
which were formed only on Nov. 19. 
CHRISTMAS GIFfS FOR THE GOLFER IN YOUR FAMILY 
One hour earlier, Husak, the man rnsponsiblo for the 21 years of repression and stagna­
SHOP HOURS 

tion that followed thn Warsaw Pact invasion that crushed thn 196H "Prague Spring" reforms, 

MONDAY-FRIDAY 
swore in the new "government 

7:00AM -1:00PM 

of national understanding" the opposition had demanded. The 76-year-old, hard-linn 
SIDRTS SWEATERS BALLS UMBRELLAS HEADWEAR 
leador -who ended up con­
JACKETS HEADCOVERS CLUBS EQUIPMENT
dueling thn ceremony on Inter­national Human Rights Day ­thtHJ resigned as he had 
ENJOY FINE GOLF CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT WITH
promised to do. The government ho installed 
EXCLUSIVE NOTRE DAME LOGOS includes men he jailed or stripped of all but the most menial jobs when he was Com­
AVAILABLE ONLY AT THE NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP 
munist Party chief from 1969 to19H7. 
f) ~:s.-~:s.-~:s.-w..:s.-~. ~:s.-~:s.-~:s.--.:u:. ~:s.--.::£..~. -.::£..~. ~::£..~. ~:s.-~::£..~. ~::£..~. -.:s.-~::£..~. .. 
~~~~~~~~~·~~~~~~~~ 
of the mass pro-democracy movement. 
Carnogursky, 45, was ar­rested in mid-August along with four other dissidents for signing an appeal to Slovaks to lay flowers in memory of those who died in the August l96H in­vasion that crushed reform in Czechoslovakia. 
Authorities charged Carnogursky and Miroslav Kusy, another Slovak dissident named Sunday as head of a new federal office of press and in­formation, with incitemnnt and subversion <'.harges that could have jailed them for up to 10 years. 
Kusy was released befon~ his trial and acquittal last month, but Carnogursky was not al­lowed out. 
A bespectacled, balding man with polite, careful manners, Carnogursky won a reputation in Bratislava as a defense lawyer or legal adviser on hu­man rights cases, and the pub­lisher of the undPrground newspaper, Bratislavske Listy. 
On Sunday, he was named First Vice Premier in the new government, the first since 1948 in which the Communists were a minority. 
It will be up to Petr Miller, a worker at Prague's giant CKD heavy engineering works, to safeguard the proletarian in­tnrests as Labor Minister. 

AP Photo 

Shooting-death moumers 
Three unidentified women hug each other after laying flowers in 
front of the Polytechnical School at the University of Montreal, 
where fourteen women were shot Wednesday. 
NOTRE DAME 




Business 
Monday, December 11, 1989 page 7 

Blue chips reorganize in'90, cost-cutting to raise profits 
NEW YORK (AP) -IBM is cutting 10,000 jobs, Chrysler is scrapping a highly touted di­versification and McGraw-llill is undergoing a drastic reorga­nization. all in the name of raising profits. 
But when three of America's leading companies take steps like these in the space of one week. it's almost like dumping icewater on any illusions that thn broadnr nconomy is healthy and growing stronger. 
"I think these companies are all gearing up for what is going to be a pretty cool climate next year," said Robert J. Eggert, editor of Blue Chip Economic Indicators, an inves.tment newsletter and advisory service in Sidona, Ariz. "The year ahead of us is going to be the slowest growth year we've had since the recession of 1982." 
The severity of the cost-cut­ting and strategy realignments announced by International Business Machines Corp., Chrysler Motors Corp. and Mc­Graw-Hill Inc. this past week were rooted partly in each company's particular problems. 
But they also reflected trou­bling common elements: satu­ration of the U.S. market for computers, cars and communi­cations products. high domestic interest rates that raise the cost of doing business, and an increasingly tough competition abroad. where much of the po­ttmtial for growth exists. 
"I think the major thrust for the companies taking these ac­tions is that the world has be­come extremely competitive over the last five years," said Lester Morris, chief executive officer of Mesirow Financial, a Chicago-based investment firm. 
"In order to remain competi­tive, they have to slim down and get rid of a lot of fat," he said. "I know it's a cliche but this is a global economy. All these companies are competing worldwide." 
These strategic corporate re­treats come against a back­ground of evidence that the 
U.S. economy, which by stan­dard government measure­ments has been growing for more than seven years, has se­riously weakened. particularly in the past few months. 
The latest signal came Friday when the Labor Department reported higher unemployment in November and a sharply lower number of new jobs cre­ated in October than previously believed. 
"I think it seems very clear based on the numbers we've seen that the economy is slow­ing considerably," said Michael Moran, economist at Daiwa Se­curities America Inc. in New York. "The numbers that have been coming in recently suggest something in neighborhood of 1 percent to 1.5 percent growth is likely in the fourth quarter. Even below 1 percent is a pos­sibility.'' 
For IBM, once considered a 
showcase American company 
with such awesome dominance 
that even Japanese computer 
makers gave it grudging re­
spect, the $2.3 billion restruc­
turing was considered a sign 
that Big Blue finally has faced 
reality: its domestic profits 
haven't grown for five years. 
The restructuring will eliminate 
10,000 jobs and presumably 
save IBM $1 billion in annual 
costs. 

In Chrysler's case, the No. 3 
automaker trashed a strategy 
begun only a few years ago, to 
hedge its future by diversifying 
into other industries. It is a 
strategy that rivals General 
Motors Corp. and Ford Motor 
Co. also embraced, increasing 
speculation that they might be 
rethinking their plans as well. 
Chrysler said it was seeking a 
buyer for its technology unit, 
which includes the Gulfstream 
Aerospace business jet maker 
and Electrospace Systems de­
fense contractor. 
Chrysler spent more than $1 billion for those businesses. Proceeds of the sale presum­ably would help prepare Chrysler for the staggering 
costs of revamping its vehicle product line for the 1990s. 
Abandoning diversification seemed to mark an admission by Chrysler that it must concen­trate on doing what it knows best, making automobiles, 
Trump eyes Ambassador Hotel 
LOS ANGELES (APJ -Bil­lionaire Donald Trump is con­sidering developing the land­mark Ambassador Hotel prop­erty. a former haven for celebrities and site of Sen. Hobert F. Kennedy's assassina­tion. city officials say. 
Mayor Tom Bradley and Councilman Nate Holden said they met with Trump last week to discuss a potential future for the 68-year-old hotel, which has been closed for nearly a year. It wasn't immediately clear, however, if Trump's plans include razing the build­ing, a move opposed by some local groups. 
"He simply said he had an in­terest in the hotel," Bradley said Friday. "What that inter­est is, I don't know." 
The 494-room hotel and its Coconut Grove nightclub were visited over the years by such celebrities as Elvis Presley, Elizabeth Taylor, Bing Crosby and Howard Hughes. Kennedy was assassinated there mo­ments after declaring victory in the 1968 California Democratic presidential primary. 
Trump spoke of a combined retail, office and residential de­velopm.ent on the 23.5-acre site. 
Decline feared in'90s, but forecasts unclear 
NEW YORK (AP) -In the waning weeks of a prosper­ous but worry-filled decade for the stock market, reces­sion anxieties once again are clouding investors' outlooks. 
All through the long bull market and economic expan­sion that date back to 1982, Furthermore, they con-. Wall Street has been beset by tend, the harbingers of a 

periodic  fears  of  an  eco­ 
nomic downturn.  
Each  one  proved to  be  a  

false alarm -even the mar­ket crash of 1987, which was widely heralded at the time as a portent of gloom, if not outright doom. 
Even so, the prospect of a recession surfaces in just about any discussion of the economy and the markets in the early 1990s. The Federal . Reserve implicitly has ac· knowledged the threat with moves over the _past several months to relax its credit policy by encouraging inter­est rates to decline. 
"Normally, when the Fed loosens because of a reces­sion, it's bullish for stocks," said Martin Zweig, editor of the advisory letter Zweig Forecast in Bellmore, N.Y. 
"The problem -or the dif· ference -this time is that a recession has not likely been discounted yet by the stock market." 
Many who side with the bullish camp say the current scare has no more valid ba­sis than the others that have gripped the financial world in recent years. 
True, they acknowledge, corporate profits have been slumping for several months, and the fourth-quarter re­ports that will be issued in early 1990 aren't likely to look very pretty either. 
But they say earnings have gone through sluggish peri· ods before-for example, in the mid-1980s -without signaling any economy-wide slump. 
textbook recession simply 
aren't present in the current 
economic climate. 
If they ·were, over-enthusi­
astic businesses would be 
producing more than they 
could sell, causing a big 
buildup of inventories in the 
pipelines of the economy. 
Such excesses would be ex­
erting upward pressure on 
inflation and interest rates. 
And the Fed would be 
working to keep the economy 
from overheating by tighten­
ing its grip on money ·and 
credit. 
"If the conventional wis· 
dom turns out to be correct 
-no recession in the classic 
sense, but simply a slow­
down in 1990 -the stock 
market at worst should 
mark time and at best could 
well be surprisingly robust," 
said David Eisenberg at San­
ford C. Bernstein & Co. 
Stock traders seemed to be 
reserving judgment on that 
question in the past week. 
The Dow Jones average of 
30 industrials, which had 
climbed 72.10 points in the 
previous week, slipped back 
16.21 to 2,731.44. 
The New York Stock Ex­change composite index dropped .74 to 192.92; the NASDAQ composite index for the over-the-counter market lost .88 to 456.22, and the American Stock Ex­change market value index was down .13 at 375.45. 
·Volume on the Big Board averaged 151.55 million shares a day, against 160.57 million the week before. 
Fed's ambiguity resembles Delphic oracle's approach 
The penchant for childish secrecy at the Federal Heserve Board has landed it in hot water once again­and it's time for us taxpay­ers to be boiling mad. For it is you and I who are paying the bills for an out­moded sense of the occult that needlessly surrounds the making of monetary policy in the United States. And occult is truly the word. Under present condi­tions the Federal Reserve  The latest example of the perils of these protected procedures began the day before Thanksgiving, when the Fed was widely-and in­correctly-interpreted as having decided to push inter­est rates a quarter point lower. Such a decision would have been of far more than fractional importance, sig­naling a switch from preoc­cupation with inflation to concern about avoiding re­cession.  louis Rukeyser Tribune Media Services target of eight and one-half percent, investors assumed that a new target of eight and one-quarter percent had been established-an action that would have been a happy prelude to easier money throughout the anemic economy. The following Monday, in  out what the heck these of­ficials are actually trying to accomplish. But the price of such foolishness eventually falls on you and me, creating even greater instability in the jittery financial markets and increasing the cost of the government's own borrowings. (As interest rates edged up in the wake of the Fed's turnabout, the Treasury-that is, the taxpayers-had to pay a higher price on its new two­ predecessors. At the moment, he plainly feels the need to defend his turf against proposals to give Congress more authority over the Fed, a change he correctly fears would transform it into a perennial engine of inflation. But if Greenspan wants to head off such total politiciz­ing of monetary policy, he needs to bring the Federal Reserve out of its cocoon. If  
chairman resembles not a public servant but the Delphic oracle. He sits in a great Grecian temple in Washington, much as the Delphic priestess took her seat on a sacred tripod. His utterances, like hers, are often reported indirectly and belatedly, in writing. And they are typically character­ized, as hers were, by delib­erate vagueness and  Since the Fed has not had the courtesy to express such a sentiment clearly and di­rectly, ordinary citizens must rely on the arcane clues it leaves strewn about the marketplace. The most common clue is the so-called federal funds rate, which applies to overnight loans between banks and is easily con­trolled by the central  an extraordinary action that stunned the credit markets, the Fed went out of its way to demonstrate that this in­terpretation had been incor­rect. Acting unusually early in the day and with appar­ently unmistakable force, the Fed drained reserves and pushed the federal funds rate back up to its old levels. Now, such fun and games would be merely a matter  and five-year notes.) The response of the Fed is that the markets were wrong-that in fact, this time around, it wasn't even trying to make a subtle and ambiguous change. The an­swer to that lies not in casti­gating the confused but in onding the confusion. Alan Greenspan, the pre­sent Fed chairman, is per­ the Fed is not yet ready to permit live televising of its meetings, it ought at least assure that its decisions are immediately, clearly and uni­versally reported. Government functionaries adore censorship, but we are not talking about the Stealth bomber here; we are talking about the meat and potatoes of the American economy, and there is no valid reason  
ambiguity.  authorities. Hence when the  for the economic textbooks  haps the least arrogant in  not to let the citizens know  
Such obscurity may have been appropriate in conning visitors to the temple of Apollo. But is this any way to run a democracy?  Fed's trading desk began generously supplying reserves at a time when the federal funds rate already was below its presumed  if the only victims were well­healed speculators and that bizarre fraternity of "Fed watchers" that gets paid vast sums of money to figure  the history of the agency: an intelligent and sensitive man who is nonetheless caught up in the excessive secrecy that shrouded his  precisely what the govern­ment plans to do with their money. It's time to squelch the bureaucrats, and bring light into the temple.  


Viewpoint
pageS Monday, December 11, 1989 
The -Obsen!er-~c-= 
P 0 Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)239-5303 
1989-90 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Chns Donnelly 
Managing Editor Business Manager Regts Coccta R1ch lannellt 
Exec. News Editor Matthew Gallagher Advertising Manager Molly Killen Viewpoint Editor .Dave Bruner Ad Design Manager .Shannon Roach Sports Editor Theres~ Kelly Production Manager Alison Cocks Accent Editor John Blast Systems Mgr Bernard Brenntnkmeyer Photo Editor Enc Batley OTS Director Angela Bellanca Saint Mary's Editor Chnsttne Gtll Controller Anne Ltndner 
The Observer tS the tndependent newspaper published by the students of the Untverst ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Satnt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol· ICtes of the admtntstratton of e1ther tnstttutton The news is reported as accurately and ob· ;ecttvely as posstble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1n1on of the ma;onty of the follow1ng Ed1tor tn~Chtef. Managtng Ed1tor. Execut1ve News Ed1tor, Viewpoint Edttor Sports Ed1tor. Accent Ed1tor. Photo Ed1tor. Sa1nt Mary's Editor Commentanes~ letters. and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of thetr authors. Column space IS available to all members of the communtty and the free expression of vary1ng optntons on campus~ through letters IS encouraged. 

Translating 'liberalese' requires special lexicon 
It is of'ten difficult for us non­eral, usually of college age ant.: civil rights leader). tem, as outlined in .Jesse .Jack­liberals to understand lib­(ant.: Reaganite, racist, fascist, • Heaganism: Opposition to son's campaign promises and eralese. It is a strange lan­Rick Acker conservative. see also: liberal). all that is good and true and practiced by Sweden, guage superficially similar to • Protecting American jobs: just (syn: fascism, reactionary­Nicaragua, and 1950s Britain.
Freedom and Justice 
our own, but 11llnd with bizarre Keeping Japanese, Korean, and ism, racism, conservatism, any­• Social justice: Any liberal concepts abhorrent to the Taiqanese goods out of Amer­thing else bad. ant.: anything program (syn: civil rights, af­conservative or moderate mind. new American weapons system ica (ant.: unfair trade prac­good). lirmative action, opposing tlw 
After years of intensive study, (sec also: response to American tices). military-industrial compl1~x. however, I have acquired a militarism). • Racism: 1. Hiring and pro­• Heaganitc: Sick, warped, protecting American jobs. ant.: basic understanding of it and • Ethics investigation: Con­moting whites or Orientals on evil individual (syn: racist, racism, Heaganism). have compiled a short list of troversial inquiry into the the basis of their race. 2. Any fascist, conservative, reac­• State terrorism: Anytime key words and phrases, along affairs of a conservative per­hint that a black, Hispanic,-or tionary. ant.: decent human America uses military force with definitions. son or group (ant. witch hunt). i\rneriean Indian might possibly being). anywlwrn for any n~ason (syn.: 
• Fascist: Anyone who de­not be qualified for a job {syn: • Hcaganomics: Something imperialism, Heaganism). 
• 
Abortion: Every woman's fends democratic capitalism ef­Heaganism, conservatism. ant: which wasn't expected to work. • Unfair trade prartiees: absolute, Court-given right fectively (sec also: bourgeois). affirmative action, civil rights). • Hesponse to American mili­Keeping Anwrican goods out of (syn.: civil rights; ant.: sexism, • Fetus: A lump of tissue tarism: Any new Soviet .Japan, South Korna, and Tai­Hnaganism). which every woman has an ab­• Racist: 1. Anyone who pro­weapons system (see also: wan lant.: protecting American 

• 
Affirmative action: lliring solute right to destroy any time motes the interests of whites or destabilizing factor). jobs). and promoting blacks, llispan­she wants (ant.: baby). Orientals over those of other • Sanctions: Something which • Witch hunt: Controversial ies, and American Indians on • -gate: An exceedingly groups. 2. Anyone who thinks is imperialist, unfair, and inef­inquiry into thn afTairs of a lib­the basis of their race (syn.: clever suffix attached to the Jesse Jackson is not qualified fective when used against eral person or group (ant. social justice, civil rights; ant.: name of any scandal involving to be President. 3. Anyone who Nicaragua or Libya, but is just ethics investigation). radsm, Heaganism). conservatives. opposes sanctions against and splendidly effective against 

• 
Baby: Somnthing that magi­• Greed: When consQrvatives South Africa. 4. Anyone who South 1\friea. Rick Acker is a first year law cally appnars at or ncar birth don't pay their taxes (sec also: opposes affirmative action • Social democracy: The per­student and is a regular View­(ant.: fntus). opposing the military-industrial {syn.: Reaganite, conservative. feet economic and political sys-point columnist. 

• 
Bourgeois: Anyone who de­complex). fends democratic capitalism • Imperialism: Any American (see also: fasdst). cultural, economic, political, or LETTERS 

• 
Civil rights: 1. Abortion 2. military presence abroad. Note: 


Affirmative action 3. Gay mar­does not include student volun­Massacre victims your fellow students killed in on this campus. As the decision riages 4. The right to say or teers opposing South Africa. their classrooms and rellect on to reinstall~ the "male privilege"
remembered today
publish anything you want Chile, and El Salvador or sup­how vulnerable we all are to laundry service is made, the (ant.: Heaganism). porting Nicaragua (see also: Dear Editor: those tortured people who have administration should be aware 
• Civil rights leader: Anyone state terrorism). In Montreal today, services forgotten our common of potential consequences of its 
who promotfls the interests of are being held for the fourteen humanity and vent their hatred choice. blacks, llispanics, or American • Liberal: A sensitive and students slaughtered on Dee. 6 on their neighbors. A decision to continue thn Indians over other groups compassionate individual who at the University of Montreal. service would be blatantly dis­(ant.: conservative, racist, Hea­believes in social justice, the The murderer, in his illness, Karen Slawner criminatory. Liknwise, a deci­ganite). basic goodness of Communist identified women as the cause Graduate Student sion of this type would servo to 
• 
Consciousness ratstng: leaders, and Jesse Jackson of the problems in his life and Government reinforce the existing tensions What the liberals did to Hobert (ant.: conservative, Rcaganite, saw no other solution to them Dec. 10, 1989 and stereotypes of men and Bork (ant.: mud slinging). racist, fascist. see also: pro­other than murder and suicide. women at Notro Damn. In a 

• 
Conservative: Anyone who gressive). He singled out women for his Male-only laundry University well known for its believes in oppressing women • Mud slinging: What the con­yengeance but he could just as history of sexual discrimina­and minorities and who likes servatives did to Michael easily have blamed another unjust to women tion, a decision sueh as this will killing people with capital pun­Dukakis (ant.: consciousness group identifiable by physical not go unnoticed by the mnm­ishment and state terrorism raising). characteristics or practices: bers of this campus or mem­(syn.: fascist, reactionary, Hea­• Opposing the military-in­blacks, Chinese, men, .Jews or Dear Editor: bers of political arenas elsn­ganite. ant.: liberal, progres­dustrial complex: When liberals Catholics. Due to the unfortunate fire at wherc. sive). don't pay their taxes {see also: St. Michael's Laundry, the Uni­Christina Gurnett 

• 
Demagogue: Any fiery con­greed). As you walk to class today versity administration faces a Farley llall servative speaker. (ant.: • Orator: Any fiery liberal through the peaceful quads of turning point in the formation Matthew Dobbs orator). speaker (ant.: demagogue). Notre Dame, I encourage you of policies concerning the Flanner llall 

• 
Destabilizing factor: Any • Progressive: An elitist lib-to take a moment to remember treatment of men and women Nov. 30, 19R9 


DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
MARJUJIJI MARl<~ t:IJl/..C6e UfOARC AU FR/E:NCJS. H&'S A OOMINO? 7HCJSt 9'!'RAN'3e HAVIN6 AN '80s 
0 

Pfi()fl£ INOUR !?£VIVA/.. f?!JI<TY. liVING ROOM~ I lOW 'tWABafT 
IT t(!lfl?l(t3 A60. 

'Some books are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some few to be chewed and digested.' 
Francis Bacon 
(1561-1626) 







Accent
Monday, December11, 1989 page 9 
Get ready for 'Christmas Vacation' 
Chevy Chase is full of laughs in latest film of the 'Vacation' series 
COLLEEN CRONIN ily at their house, and Clark not get along with each other, assistant accent editor wants to start it out the right and it is a situation that will way with the best Christmas remind anyone of their family 
"I did it, I actually did it!" ex­
tree at Jolly Jerry's Saw 'n' Christmas. Eddie (the scu~myclaimed Chevy Chase at the end Save Xmas Tree Ranch. Getting cousin from "Vacation" withof his latest National Lampoon there was half the fun, and the daughter that smoked potmovie, "Christmas Vacation." 
after a long trek and a frozen and the son that readThe third in the National daughter, Clark found THE "Playboy") and his wife Cather­Lampoon series that started tree. THE tree turned out to be ine show up unexpectedly in the with "Vacation," the movie that RV from hell with the dog from 
everyone was able to identify with, "Christmas Vacation" hi­'When the family is hell, Snots. THE tree burned 
down, and the replacement tree
lariously depicts a Christmas getting on your 
had a squirrel that must havethat will hit home with any au­
dience. nerves, you have had taken terrorizing lessons from the gopher in "Caddyshack."
Clark Griswold, played as al­
ways by Chevy Chase, once enough of decorating, And Clark still cannot get those again has the best intentions, and you feel like you lights to work. 
What's Christmas without the 
but they somehow do not man­age to work out, beginning with will go insane if you Grinch? Clark's boss is the 
Grinch and Scrooge of the the Saturday afternoon trip for 
see one more 
movie, but Clark straightens the real Christmas tree. Clark 
has this Rockwellian Christmas reindeer, go see this him out in the end. It is one of the few things that goes right
image in mind and is set to 
movie. It will have 
for poor Clark.
make it come true. This will be the first time that the Gris­you laughing .... ' Clark does not get a Christ­
mas quite as perfect as he waswold's will have the entire fam­
longer than the car and far too hoping for, but gives the audi­tall for the Griswold living ence a great time trying. A few room. But no matter: Clark things are resolved in the end, was determined to have this and the lights do eventually tree. work, which is one of the funni­
From then on it just got est scenes in the movie. As in worse, and funnier. Clark took the other "Vacation" movies, at it upon himself to decorate the some points in the movie you house. He came up with 25 have to feel bad for Clark be­. " strands of 100 "twinkling Ital­cause he is trying so hard, but ian lights." And yes, he used all that feeling does not stay for 25 strands. There was not an long because each scene is fun­inch of siding or gutter or win­nier than the previous one. dow that was free of lights. "Christmas Vacation" outdoes When Clark could not get these "European Vacation" and is on lights to work, though, you al­a par with the original most felt sorry for him. He even "Vacation." When the family is stayed up all night to check ev­getting on your nerves, you ery single light bulb, but to no have had enough of decorating, avail. It is the typical Clark and you feel like you will go in­Griswold situation. sane if you see one more rein­
There are many other deer, go see this movie. It will
~--"'"...

Clark Griswold (Chevy Chase) carves the turkey for his family in "National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation." mishaps as well. The in-laws do have you laughing in no time. 

'Baywatch' deserves to sink 
rate rescue attempt-one too
Just when you thought it was Fans of "CHiPs" may rec­complex for even the smartestsafe to go back into the water... ognize most of the plots re­of two year-olds. He follows theno, Jaws isn't back. This time gurgitated in this "Bay." One criminals, punches them out, there's a band of barracudas episode features two young 
more harmful and brutal than boys who manage to get locked tosses them into the ocean, and saves the day. What a guy! This
the great white: the lifeguards into a tunnel that fills with 
of "Baywatch." water when the tide comes in. show is, put bluntly, Fish and Of course, these Jacks-Of-All­"CHiPs." 
Trades in swimsuits rescue Sure, Friday is usually a nightJoe Bucolo them just in time. for "no mind" television In another episode, Eddie and programs, but this is a little To be continued ... a girlfriend are kidnapped by out of hand. It makes "The 
Dukes of Hazzard" seem like Splashing its way across the "Life Goes On." Viewer s of
'Just when you
screen on Fridays at 8 p.m. on "Baywatch's" promos imme­NBC. "Baywatch" relays the thought it was safe to diately knew this show would adventuros and mysteries ex­be nothing more than a chance perienced by a close-knit group go back into the for the actors and actresses to 59813 of Los Angeles lifeguards. show off their trim bods.
water... no, Jaws isn't
Mitch Bucannon (David The program's cast is a tal­-.lGELES C llasselhoff) is the lieutenant in back. This time there's ented one. Hasselhoff was good eharge of the crew. Parker enough to pull off a show
a band of barracudas
Stevenson stars as Craig involving a talking car. Pomeroy. a lawyer who often more harmful and Stevenson made a name for leaves his eases behind for himself on "The Hardy Boys" ­lifeguard duty. (Sure, that brutal than the great and later starred in "Falcon makes sense.) Also on hand Crest." Finally, Warlock won an
white: the lifeguards
are Eddie (Billy Warlock), Emmy for his performance as Shauni (Erika Eleniak), and Jill of "Baywatch."' Frankie on "Days of Our Lives." (Shawn Weatherly). They're not These are actors who could 
lawyers-just lifeguards. stereotypically ruthless char­perform if they were given the 
Craig isn't the only one who acters who want a secret black chance, but the writers don't has a load of responsibilities. book containing important seem to want to offer them the In fact. viowers will be information returned to them. opportunity. If these fish were amazed-pmhaps stunned-by These criminals have all the placed in some less-murky the numbnr of tasks lifp­gestures down, especially the waters, they would surely swim. guards-at least "Baywatch" "evil laugh" and occasional "Baywatch" is a show with lifeguards-must perform. "biffs" in the head to their buoyant ratings that deserves They have to chase drug deal­prisoners. Is this "Baywatch" to sink. The quality of the show ers. ward off killers, cope with or "Jabber Jaw?" It's has been at the bottom of the love triangles, and-oh yeah­"Baywatch;" "Jabber Jaw" was sea since it started. NBC stop kids from throwing sand. more intelligent. shouldn't bother to fish it out. Life's a beach .... Later, Mitch plans an elabo-This "Bay" is washed up. 

David Hasselhoff (left) and Parker Stevenson star as lifeguards Mitch Bucannon and Craig Pomeroy in "Baywatch," an action-adventure series that is reminiscent of the exploits of Ponch and Jon in "CHiPs." 
page 10 The Observer Monday, December11, 1989 
Vikes close to clinching division 
(AP)-The Minneso~a Vikings  Wade Wilson was then inter­ The Eagles led 17-3 at half­ 
moved within one victory of  cepted, and Atlanta moved to a  time and increased their lead to  
their first NFC Central Division  first down at its 40 before  20-3 on Hoger Ruznk's 46-yard  
title since 1980 by beating  I>olcman and the Vikings'  field goal 3:11 into the third  
Atlanta 43-17 Sunday, and the  league-leading defense took  period.  
Chicago Bears moved over.  over.  
Keith Millard and Tim  Saints 22, Bills 19  
Newton returned third-quarter  Chiefs 21, Packers 3  John Fourcade made his first  
fumbles-both forced by Chris  Steve I>cBerg passed for two  NFL start, aside from 1987  
Doleman -for touchdown's in  touchdowns, and the Chiefs  strike games, and threw two  
Minnesota's victory. The  kept alive their playoff hopes at  touchdown passes as New  
Vikings are 9-5, one game  7-6-1. The Chif~fs scored 14  Orleans (7-7) used ball control  
ahead of Green Bay (8-6),  points in the final minute of the  to beat Buffalo (8-6).  
which lost 21-:{ at home to  first half for a 21-3 lead, then  Foureade, who had complctnd  
Kansas City.  shut the Packers out in the sec­ just seven passes this season.  
"We control our own des­ ond half.  replaced a benched Bobby  
tiny," Do!~man said. "That's all  Kansas City sacked Packers  IIebert and completed 15 of 27  
we want.  quarterback Don Majkowski  passes for 302 yards, helping  
The Bears, meanwhile, lost to  four times. inten~epted him  the Saints snap a two-game  
Detroit in Chicago, 27:-17, end­ once and !wid Green Bay to  losing streak.  
ing their sputtering attempt at  four second-half first downs.  Buffalo has lost two in a row  
a sixth straight division title  The victory was the Chiefs'  in its battle to stay atop tlw  
and eliminating them from  third straight. Grenn Bay (8-6)  AFC East. An interception of  
playoff contention at 6-8.  had won three in a row.  Jim Kelly in the fourth quarter  
"It's not the end of the  led to the Saints' winning score,  
world," Bears coach Mike  Lions 27, Bears 17  a 22-yard lield goal by Mort<m  
I>itka said. " ... It's definitely my  Bookie Barry Sanders ran for  Andersen with Jess than two  
fault. I think we c.an put a pe­ 120 yards and two touchdowns  minutes left.  
riod after that and quote  against the NFC's top-rated  
marks and make a lot of you  rushing defensn as the Lions  Steelers 13, Jets 0  
ptmple happy."  formally eliminated Chicago  Pittsburgh's defense, led by  
In other NFL action Sunday,  from playoff contention.  linebacker Greg Lloyd. got its  
it was Philadelphia 20, Dallas  Detroit (5-9) won its third  first shutout in more than four  
I 0; New Orleans 22, Bull"alo 19;  straight game, matching its  years.  
Pittsburgh 13. New York Jets 0;  longest winning streak since it  Tim Worley scored on a 35­ 
llouston 20, Tampa Bay 17;  won the first four games of the  yard run on the opening drivn,  
Seattle 24, Cincinnati 17, and  I 978 season.  then the Steelers turned to de­ 
Washington 26, San Diego 21.  Chicago has lost four in a  fensn. Lloyd intercepted one  
In later games. Indianapolis  row for the first time since  pass, had a sack and generally  
bcatCieveland in overtime, 23-17,  1981. Detroit had lost its pre­ crnated havoc.  
the New York Giants defeated  vi<JUs 10 games against the  
Denver 14-7, and the Los  Bears.  The last shutout for  
Angles Haiders beat Phoenix  Pittsburgh was against  
16-14. Miami defeated New  . Eagles 20, Cowboys 1 0  Houston on Sept. 22, 1985. The  
England at night.  Handall Cunningham passed  Jets last were blanked in a non­ 
" .  The Monday night game has San Francisco at the Los  for 170 yards and a touch­down. keeping the Eagles (1 0­ strike game two weeks earlinr by the Raiders.  
Angeles Hams.  41 atop the NFC East. NFL  
Commissioner Paul Tagliabue  Oilers 20, Buccaneers 17  
Vikings 43, Falcons 17  was at the gamn bceause of al­ Warren Moon . threw two  
Should the Vikings and  legations the last time these  touchdown passes, and  
Packers tic for the lead.  two teams met that Eagles  Houston's defense batted down  
Minnesota holds the edge with  coach Buddy Ryan had offered  two punts, interceptnd a pass,  
a better division record.  a bounty for roughing up  recovered a fumble and held off  
The Vikings led 20-10 at half­ Cowboys players.  Tampa Bay's late charg<~.  
lime, but Chris Miller threw a  There were five infractions  Houston is 9-5 and on top of  
17-yard TD pass to Shawn  for unnncessary roughness in  the AFC Central, while Tampa  
Collins on the fourth play of the  the game, played two days after  Bay fell to 5-9.  
third quarter to pull the  Tagliabue dismissed Dallas  Moon threw for touchdowns  
Falcons (3-11) within three.  eoach Jimmv Johnson's protnst.  of 12 yards to Drew Hill and 16  


yards to Curtis Dunean for a 20-3 halftime lead. 
The key defensive play canw with 1:18 to play when safety Bubba McDowell recovered a fumble by Tampa's James Wilder at the Houston 21. 
Seahawks 24, Bengals 17 
Dave Krieg lobbed a 1-yard touchdown pass to Curt Warner with 3:51 to play for the winning touchdown, drop­ping Cincinnati to 7-7 and two games back of Houston in the AFC Central. 
Krieg's second touchdown pass of the game followed a disputed call. Seattle (6-8) ap­
-

p<mred to lw stopped wlwn Warner failed to seore on third-and-goal from tlw 1. But tlw play was blown dead for il­legal motion. giving Seattle an­other chanee. even though the n~feree latN deeided tlwn~ was no motion on tlw play. 
Hedskins 26, Chargers 21 
Mark  Hypi en  th r<~w  two  
touehdown  passes,  and  Chip  
Lohmiller  kicked  four  fipld  
goals  as  the  Hedskins  (8-(>)  

gave Joe Gibbs his 1 OOth win as an NFL h1md coach. 
San Diego is 4-10. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame oHice, 314 LaFortune. and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for nexl·day classifieds IS 3 p.m. All classifieds must be 
prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including spaces.
Classifieds 
HELP !!! lost one brown leather GOING TO THE ORANGE BOWL? Need stocking stuflers for your 1AM WILLING TO PAY BIG
I fQn SALE
bomber jacket Saturday night at the
NOTICES ARE YOU DRIVING? I'll: parents? DOMER PARENT BUTIONS BUCKS FOR AN ORANGE BOWL
Worm!! 
I need a ride BACK to anywhere on the call #4054 GA. PLEASE CALL KELLy ATEXPERT TYPING SERVICE CALL In the pockets were my I. D.'s, glasses, east coast after the game. I"m fun. I'll PIONEER PDM·60 MUL TI·DISC ·····--···--·---··-···-·-··--····-··· #1342MRS. COKER. 233·7009. and a Kodak camera! 
make great conversation & PLAYER FOR SALE. GOOD AS NEW. Wendy Cunningham. -·----------------·-----·---·-······· Please call if you have any information I"ll even pay & drive. Please call Karen WILL 1633. 1can't beleive you didn't think I'd PHILADELPHIA CLUB WORD PROCESSING concerning this coat!! Call: x1511. --····--·····················---····· write you one of these. Well i hopr I"ve CHRISTMAS BUS272-8827 Tina @284-5199 
·-------·-·------------------·-------BUYING can be CHEAPER than righted myself. Have a wonderful Sign·ups: Monday Dec. 11 WANTED: Entrepreneurial students to RENTING! INVEST in your FUTURE! week. good luck on exams and have a 1st floor Lafortune TYPING AVAILABLE work as marketing reps on-campus for Call MARILYN KULLER to DISCOVER Merry Christmas and all that. Who 7:30pm cost:$85287-4082 
$tOO REWARD our MasterCard and Visa Card how! RE/MAX 100 Realty, 255·5858. knows,( God help you) maybe you'll be??? call Shanon 4091 or . program as well as other popular 234-6325 my design editor next semester. Mark 288·3133 TEXTBOOKS If h lhyou ave my tan came air overcoat student offers. Just two to four flexible -····-·····---·····--·-·--··---·--·-­
BOUGHT AND SOLO lost at SMC Junior Formal. I need the -··-··-----·········..·····-----··-­! d $t DO I I X hours per week with unlimited GOING TO THE ORANGE BOWL? B b II b b Happy twenty·first Robyn Maher!!!
PANDORA'S BOOKS .11 b 0
coa an wo uy you a ot -earnings potentiall Applications being · 1HAVE A 1 WAY PLANE TICK 4 SALE sroto~-a ~I Y· . h .
CORNER OF N.D. AVE. AND 1 HOWARD mas oreWsenAts.NlCALLE2083·3270 RiD.ERS.NiEoEI:>=·····-----·-·····..--~:s~iNR~T~~~~~g~ERY ~HEAP I. th~ ~u~~. ~~: ~o:~~ ~/ r:e~lst etoe. HI AG! 233·2342 
I"M DRIVING HOME TO WASH. DC CALL1511. ·--··--·-·---··---................... 
LOTS OF PAPERBACKS IN STOCK! 
I 

WED. DEC 20TH. WILL TAKE RIDERS. ADOPTION. A LOVING OVERSEAS JOBS. $900·~000 mo. CALL I Sit. ·--·-··---------·---·-----·-·---·---· AlTERNATIVE. Btl ALUM WISHES SANTA IS COMING TYPING 
! 
Summer,yr.round,AII Countries, All ·-·-------·······------------·-------TO ADOPT AN INFANT. LOVING SANTA IS COMING PICKUP & DELIVERY fields. Free into. Write !JC, PO Bx 52· 1·WAY TICKET TO LA. DEC. 19.LV 
GET YOUR PICTURE TAKEN 277·7406 C C O'HARE 12:35 PM ARRIVE LAX 4:28 HOME, CERTIFIED TO ADOPT, 
'No WITH SANTA ON DEC. 14 
...~: .._or~.~~..D~~~-~~---~-~~.625. RIDERS NEEDED for travel from SB to PM. $\DO. 284.5044 JOY EXPENSES PAID. CAN BE ATIENTION . HIRING! San Diego-lv p.m. CONFIDENTIAL OR OPEN. IF YOU FROM NOON·5PM IN LAFORTUNE 
SANTA IS COMING

Daytona Beach 

GOVERNMENT JOBS. YOUR AREA. r.12/20--any c1ty near route ok-PE~•ALS OR SOMEONE YOU IS
All JAMES @237·9533 1 KoiJ\Jn CONSIDERING ADOPTION, CALL ..................................... 
$17.840·$69.485. CALL1-602·838· . MIKE & JEAN COLLECT AT 602·482· THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune
I.
Spring'90
Just do it! 
6¢ Copies, Binding, FAX

~~~:.~.~~.~.~2.~~-·-------------· FOR RENT I g:t~~~o~~~~~~g~Ts ~~?-~: ______________________________
$239 complete 

OPEN EARL Y,LATE,&WEEKEND? 
x\195 Shane 

FEDERAL.STATE AND CIVIL NEAR N.D. Clean, comfortable, and ADOPTION· Well·educated couple 
x\874 jeff or Ken 

-SERVICE JOBS! furnished apartments: Chicago· $295 eager to adopt a baby. Cheerful home -------·----··-······-··············· 
284·4407 Jennifl'T 

• 755 South Bend Ave, efficiency· Cincinnati · $245 full of books. Flexible on sharina ADOPTION Doctor & artist, happily Jeffrey L. Janicik 1 $225, 1 bedroom·$265. Cleveland· $311 information with birthmother about married, warm, seek white newborn to
4.38
NEED RIDE • 607 1/2 E. Corby, 1 bedroom·$295. Dallas · $320 child. Our adoption agency can love and cherish. legal. confidential.

Personalto WASH. D.C. AREA leaving 
Deposit, references . Denver · $351 provide counseling and references. Please call Hanna & Mark collect (212)Dec.22 
3 

616·483·9572. Detroit -$280 Please call collect 309·827 ·3135 864·551212/12WILL SHARE EXPENSES! 
------------------------------------· louisville · $245 eves/wknds for profile/photo. James ····--------·-------------------···-· 12/13PLEASE CALL JEN 284·4314 MALE/FEMALE HOUSEMATE Philadelphia· $270 and Hollis. ICEBERG DEBATES 12/14 NEEDED FOR NEXT SEMESTER. New Orleans · $200 -·-·-----------------------------···· Deadline to turn in 
....SPRING BREAK '90 .... OWN BEDROOM, CLOSE TO LaGuardia-$310 SENIOR FORMAL THEME applications to Hall
Bahamas! Cancun! 
TYPING term CAMPUS HOUSE IN GREAT Boston· $328 CONTEST..... Presidents is Dec. 1 0 7 niles. r·t air & transfers, papers/reports/letters/resumes. Pick CONDITION. 120/MO. +UTIL. PLEASE Pittsburgh· $320 Submit a theme idea and win Get involved now! 

booze cruise and parties. &up & delivery available. 277·5134 CALL 289·4621. los Angeles-$440 dinner for 2 at TIPPECANOE! ICEBERG DEBATES much more!! From $299Cathv. 
-----------------------·------------· Submit entries to StudentJUST DO IT · NOW! 
FLORIDA KEYS-ORANGE BOWL CALL1·800·7DOMERS Activities (ND/SMC) beforeI LOST/FOUND I ~~.~ ~~?.~~ .~~}~!. ~.~~~6(SMC) Marathon. Fla Keys·2hrs Miami Dec. MOST FLIGHTS 12/29 AND 1/3. Mon. Dec.11 ....PITI CLUB.... 23·30; 2/2; Sleeps 6 Sun, Fishing, SEATS ARE LIMITED. -------------------------------------The Pitt Club will be running 
Lost: Cross Fe~ Tip Pen bearing the 

Snorkeling, Pool $1000+$200 Security Roll TIDE, Rolli!! a Christmas bus . Further Information AT&T logo. It has sentimental Value. If NOW HIRING THIS AREA! $10,271 Deposit 813-996-6159 After 9pm EST Farley Hall Players are beginning to next week in these personals! 
found please call Joe@ x3804. 

TO $84,157. ------------------------------··---· plan the production of Godspelll! Roll TIDE, Roll!!! Questions: Kevin 288-4420REWARD!! REWARD!! REWARD!!! 
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS! CALL\·315-Nice furnished homes for next school Auditions for actors/singers and Steve 1177 733-6062 year. Close to NO. 277-3097. members of a small band will be held Roll TIDE. Roll!!! ....PITI CLUB.... ···-·-··--------·------·------·----~-EXT# F2382H FOR CURRENT 
-------------------------------------soon after break. Drummer, guitarist, 
LOST : Navy I cream down coat at NO LISTING PARTIALLy FURNISHED APT. pianist and floutist needed. Think Roll TIDE, Roll !I! KAPLAN MCAT COURSE BOOKS forAve. Apts. If found, please call Whitney · CLOSE TO NO. 233·7631/234·8743. about it and look for more details!! sale. Call X4098 . 
.ri!J.!<:.~!.4~_·.I~~~-~:----··-------·---------------------------·-------­
... 
r------------------~---~------­
--------------------------~----~----------~----------------~--~~~~----~---.~----~ 

r-------------------------­
The Russells' home ­got caught in a forest fire. 

So did the Russells. 
Today, more and more people are living closer and closer to the forests. Thats why, today, forest fires kill more than trees. Please be careful. Only you can prevent forest fires. 


A Public Service ofthe Ad Council, the USDA, Forest Service and your State Forester. 
The Observer page 11 
Robitaille, Kings defeat Quebec 
(AP) -Luc Robitaille scored twice and added three assists. while Wayne Gretzky and Bernie Nicholls each con­tributed four points as the Los Angeles Kings defeated the Quebec Nordiques 8-4 Sunday. 
Brian Benning and Dave Taylor, with two goals apiece. and Nicholls and John Tonelli also scored for the Kings, while Lucien Deblois scored twice and Joe Sakic and Michel Goulet had goals for the Nordiques. 
Gretzky's four assists ex­tended his point-scoring streak to 15 games and gave him a league-leading 63 points. 
Kings goaltender Kelly llrudey blocked 34 of 38 shots as Quebec failed to win for an eighth consecutive game, de­spite outshooting their visitors 38-27. 
The Kings took the lead for good late in the first period when, with Sakic off for inter­ference, Benning took a cross­ice pass from Robitaille and slipped the puck into an empty net. 
Benning, who was obtained 
from the St. Louis Blues last 
Deblois opened the scoring mH.iway through the first pe­riod when he picked up a Paul Gillis shot which hit the back­boards and fired the puck un­der llrudey's pads. 
Robitaille's two goals moved him into a first-place tie with Brett Hull of the Blues, with 23. 
Winnepeg 4, Calgary 1 
Power-play goals by Dale Hawerchuck and Pat Elynuik snapped a second-period tie Sunday and led the Winnipeg Jets to a 4-1 NHL victory over the Calgary Flames. 
It was the Jets' third win this season over the defending Stanley Cup champions. 
Hawerchuk tipped in a point shot with Calgary two men short at 4:56 of the second pe­riod and Elynuik tapped in a cross-crease pass from Thomas Steen at 6:53. 
The Flames, who outshot Winnipeg 28-21, dominated the third period, but Dave McLiwain stripped Calgary goalie Rick Wamsley of the puck and shot it past the fallen 
Both teams then settled into a tight-checking style with few good scoring opportunities un­til late in the period when a spate of minor penalties put pressure on Wamsley and Winnipeg goaltender Bob Essensa. 
Otto scored on a deflection with the Jets a man short to tie the game before the first period ended. 
The scrappy play continued in the second and referee Kerry Fraser dished out 35 minutes in penalties before the period was nine minutes old. 
Blackhawks 7, Canucks 1 
Seldom-used AI Secord had two goals and Jacques Cloutier extended his home winning streak to eight as the Chicago Blackhawks defeated the Vancouver Canucks 7-1. 
Appearing in only his 11th game this season, Secord had his first two goals of the sea­son, passing the 200-career goal mark as a Blackhawk with 
201. He had an assist against 
month for a third-round draft goaltender at 17:35 to put the Toronto on October 1~. ms onty choice in 1991, increased the game out of reach. point of the season. margin to 3-1 early in the sec­Signed as a free agent last 
ond period. He took a pass Joel Otto scored for the August 7 after being released from Gretzky, who faked a Flames, who are 1-3-0 against by Philadelphia, Secord's first­blast, and fired a slap shot past Winnipeg this season. The Jets period goal, a 19-foot back­goaltender Ron Tugnutt. moved into third spot in the bander, tied the score at 1-1. 
The two goals were Benning's Smythe Division, a single point His 16-foot wrist shot in the 
first since the trade, and behind the Flames and Los second period ignited a three­including one he scored for St. Angeles. goal outburst, putting Chicago Louis this season, give him 32 ahead 5-1. in his fourth complete Doug Smail brought the The Canucks have now lost campaign. crowd of 12,720 to its feet just eight straight on the road, and 
Forty seconds after Benning's 1:13 after the game's opening are winless away from home second goal, Taylor made it 4-1 face-off when he deflected a since Oct. 21 against the New by scoring on Steve Duchesne's pass from Dave Ellett past York Islanders. Vancouver is 2­
rebound. Wamsley. 10-3 in its last 15 contests. 

-----~ -----------~-~ 
Monday, December 11, 1989
page 12 The Observer 
SPORTS BRIEFS
Holtz had 'no inkling' of payments 
CIIICAGO (API-Notre Dame coach Lou lloltz said he should have known that several of the play1~rs he coached at Minnesota received under-the­table payments from a former university administrator. ac­cording to a published report. 
"The thing that botlwrs me is why I didn't know about it," Iloltz told the Chicago Sun­Times recently. "A coach should know it. ... I've looked back and thought, why didn't I know'! Usually. wlwre then~ 's smoke then~·s lin~. Never once did I ever hear it." 
Former administrator Luther Darville was sentenced last week to 18 months in prison for stealing $186,000 from the university's Oflice of Minority and Speeial Student AfTairs. 
lie testified at his trial that all the missing money was doled out to needy athletes and other students on instructions from his superiors. but he did not implicate Holtz, who coadwd at Minnesota in 1984­
85. Several athletes testified that Darville gave them money for food, clothing and other items over a live-year period ending in 1988. 

"I can usually tell what's go­ing on with athletes and where there's problems, and I'll tell 


you this: The surest way in this world to have problems is to have athletes treated unfairly or differently. And I never had those problems. 
"If some athletes were get­ting money and others weren't and they knew about it, you can guarantee that would reflect in their attitude and their perfor­mance on the field," he said. "If somebody knew it. I'll guaran­
tee I'd be able to say some­
Lou Holtz 
thing's wrong. 

Holtz said lw had "no in­"I think the reason I didn't kling" that players. including sens1~ anything is that those quartl•rback Hieky Foggie. who (players} who weren't involved testified that he receivnd $8,500 didn't know somebody else was. in cash and other bennfits, and I bdieve it was totally secret." otlwrs were being paid thou­lloltz said he had heard ru­sands of dollars by Darville. mors that football players un­
"I did not notiee athletes up der coach Joe Salem. his prede­there wearing nxpensive Holex cessor at Minnesota. were being watches or driving big cars," paid. said Iloltz. who left for Notre "I never knew that athletes Damn after the 1985 season. worn being paid under coach 
Nor. he said. did he perceive SalPm, although you heard cer­.negative attitudes among play­tain things," Holtz said. "But ers who knew and resPnted that when I was there. I really didn't some members of the team care. I just assumed whatevnr wern being paid while they were had happened was not going to not. transpire. 
World Cup bid for U.S. soccer 
NEW YOHK (AP) -The United States wants to send a nwssage to the rest of the soc­cer world, which expects it to be a doormat in Italy in .June. 

"Our best is going to surprise some people," U.S. coach Bob Cansler said Saturday, after tlw draw for the 1990 World Cup. 
The Unitnd States. playing in tlw tournament for the first time in 40 years, has first­round games against Czechoslovakia. Italy and Austria. Almost no orw nxpncts the Americans to be among the 16 teams advancing to the snc­ond round. 
Cansler's fear is that his play1~rs will get starry-eyed looking around at soccer's elite. 
"I hopP our guys are not sat­isfied with just being invited to the dance," he said. "I see a similar situation now to the under-20s after we qualified beat them would be monumen­for Saudi Arabia." tal. It will be a test of our psy­
Ganster was coach of that chologieal toughness." under-20 team, which finished Mike Windischmann, the U.S. fourth in the Youth World Cup captain, knows the task will be in March. lie said his job was gigantic, yet he said the United to tell the players "not to sell States thinks it can do well. themselves short by getting into "I don't think we will be a tourist-kind of mode, because taken lightly and I think if we I don't think that's appropri­are. it's a mistake," he said. ate." "All of us want to make the 
The United States never has second round. We're not going played Austria or just to be there." Czechoslovakia. It's 0-2-1 But others think the agaiust Italy, getting outscored Americans have no chance. 17-1. And it will be at the center "Our main concern will be not of attention June 14 when it to underestimate our oppo­plays the Italians in the 84,000-nents," said Italian coach seat Olympic Stadium in Home. Azeglio Vicini, whose team was Could the U.S., which pulled off made a 5-2 favorite to win the one of the great upsets in soc­Cup. "If we do that, we should cer history when it beat easily qualify for the second England 1-0 in the 1950 World round." Cup. somehow beat Italy? Diego Maradona, the captain 
"One can always dream," of defending champion Ganster said, "but that's ex­Argentina, thought Italy got an actly what that would be. To easy group. 
Women's Lacrosse Club will have a meeting for anyone interested in joining the club Tuesday at 7 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Center. Anyone with questions should call 284-4027 or 284-4117. 
Any students who have their Hed Cross water safety instructors certification and who are interested in teaching swimming during the second semester to children of Notre Dame faculty, staff and administration should contact Dennis Stark at 239-5983 before leaving for semster break. 
Agassi wins ITI by default 
PALM COAST, Fla. (AP)-An have lwen worth $75,000, but injured left knee forced Jimmy that amount went to Agassi Connors to dnfault the final of when Connors pull1~d out. 
thn ITT Stakes Match on "I'm not even 2 percent as 
Sunday, handing Andre Agassi excited as if I would have the title and a cheek for beaten him." said Agassi, 19. $297,800. "If I would have beatPn him. I'd When he pulled out, Connors fed so mtu~h better about going 
was trailing 1-2 in the second to tlw bank. As it is, I don't snt after capturing the opening PVIm fpel like tlw morwy is rPally set 6-4. The injury cost the 37-mirw. It's likn I lucknd out." 
ynar-old Connors at least Connors said thn injury oc­$125,000 under the unusual nrrnd when he was b1'11ind 2-:{ Slakes Match format. in th1~ opPning set. Tour trairwr 
Connors finished the thrne­Bob Husso said Connors had day tWIHlt with $135.700. Brad aggravated a prn-nxisting case Gilbert and Aaron Krickstein. of tnndinitis in the knen, and who were both eliminated after that the injury might keep two days of round-robin play. Connors out of compntition for finished with $107,400 and several wenks. $98,100, respectively. Despite the injury, Connors, 
Connors finished Saturday's hobbling painfully betwPen play with a match record of 4-2 points, managed to sweep five and a cash total of $158.200, straight ganws from 2-4 down. while Agassi was wnll back with taking the first snt and a 1-0 $125,300 and a 3-3 record. lead in the second. But afwr Each player had $75,000 added Agassi broke his serve for a 2-1 to his account bnfore thn final lnad, Connors dncided to quit. began. and Connors' win in tlw "I played a lot in tlw cold yes­first set earned him an addi­wrday and that might havn had tional $36,000. something to do with it." said 
The second set was valund at Connors. "But I newr expectPd $50,000 and thn third would this to happen. 
::t;~:;;;:~+.B.:Y:Y.~B.t.~~~z,;;,;\~Y:?:zz:./;;·:.;;:.:;
'/:V:-:.. . · . · . · • · . · . · . · . · . · . · . · . · • · • · . · . · · · . ·"':-:..~·..:...~·v:·v:-;r.:....-...:/,.:..-~·-:....-...:/:V'":· · . 
,...,...,.... ,,JU£ a Happy ···::·:·~~~ 
:>:":'>!.:
:·-.;-:--./:

"21"st :.:.:;.:.;.:.:.:· Birthday Richard 
Love 

Mom, Dad, 
Annmarie 

Evert loses on farewell tour 
HOUSTON (AI'l -Chris Evert, who is retiring from ten­nis, already admits she'll "have a pang or two" when the 1990 season begins. 
"But then I'll think that I'd have to commit myself to the entire year. have to train. and emotionally that has to be the most important part of your 
life,"  she  said.  "I've  had  
nnough.  I don't  want  to  deal  
with it any more."  

Evert lost to Martina Navratilova 7-5, 6-4 before 8,676 fans in The Summit Saturday night as part of Evert's farewell tour. 


Wagner 
continued from page 16 
Gardner of Illinois State. 11-5, despite a loose head gear that fell ofT through out the match. Notre Dame went on to win six of the next seven bouts taking a 
20-3 lead. 
In one of the most exciting bouts in the match, Irish freshman Steve King (190 lbsl was h~ading 8-4 and it appeared he had the match in control, when Illinois Slate captain Greg Gardner reversed King with 16 seconds left in the match and pinned him to win. Notre Dame had already technically clinf,hed the match and the Redbirds rally was too late. 
The tour continued in Atlanta Sunday night. Evnrt took a 5-2 lead in the 


1989 December week50V 
first set before Navratilova's serve took control of the mateh. 

Mon 11 
"Basically, if I serve well I usually win and if I don't Chris 

__X-/IIJAS BREA 1: S 1 AR 1 S 
wins," Navratilova said. "We're friends. and we try not to em­barrass each other. But we 

_7OtJ AY l l --·..--------------.. 
don't want to play 6-1, 6-1 

_NEEtJ 10 EARN SSSSS I 
matches. The people like to see good tennis. 

9~ appt. to register
"If one of us is not playing 

-as a temp for immediate ·-·-"'orlc at exciting downtown 
-.CH ICA<;O locationsl l ·----­-11Jey need college-----.. -educated temps to worlr. "as word processors ..... 
-receptionists and--····..-­general office belp. CALL 10TJA'I FOR MOR.E 
...................1 N FORM A110N I ............. ...._ ......3 I 2 -372 -LIS00 ................. 
T"e Cboic:e for Temporaries 

. . 
Monday, December 11, 1989 The Observer page 13 
Hawaii holds on to tie Air Force 

HONOLULU (APl Air ' Force's Hodney Lewis tied the score on his fourth touchdown 
of the game with three minutes left and the Falcons salvaged a 35-35 tie when No. 23 Hawaii's Jason Elarn missed a 47-yard field goal attempt as time ran out. 
Elarn had made 20 straight field goals after missing his first attempt of the season. lie was 1 0-of-11 from 40 yards and beyond. 
Air Force (8-3-1) clinched second place in the Western Athletic Conference with a 5-1­1 record. The Falcons play Mississippi in tne Liberty Bowl. Hawaii (9-2-1, 5-2-1) will face Miehigan State in the Aloha Bowl. 
Jarnaal Farmer, who rushed 
for a season-high 242 yards 
and two touchdowns, scored on 
a 36-yard run with 6:56 left to 
put llawaii ahead 35-28. It was 
his 17th rushing touchdown of 
the season. tying the NCAA 
record for a freshman. 
Air Force then drove 72 yards 
in nine plays, including a fourth-down play when Lewis drove for a yard to the Hawaii 
7. Lewis plunged for a 1-yard touchdown with 3:21 left, and JoP Wood's extra point tied it. 
Hawaii moved into Air Force territory as the clock ran down. but Elarn's attempt at a game­winning field goal was widP to the lnft. 
Navy 19, Army 17 
EAST HUTIIEHFOHD. N.J. ­When it countPd most. Navy kicker Frank Schenk was up to 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
turnovers and Williams con­verted a spectacular alley-oop from Bennett and a baseline jumper, and Notre Dame only trailed 36-32 at halftime. 
"We just didn't have our heads into it early the past two games. We have to come out and jump on people early, but instead we've been crumbling and having to come back," said Bennett, who scored 14 points. 
The Irish carne back in the 
second half, thanks to the 
scoring of senior co-captain 
Joe Fredrick, who led Notre 
Dame with 19 points, and the 
post defense of 6-11 sophomore 
Keith Tower. Powell, who gave 
up 5 inches to Tower, just could 
Powell 
continued from page 16 
you went in and looked at it 
right now, you'd wonder how a 
guy can play on that kind of 
ankle. But he did a great job, he 
pushed himself. 
"I tell the guys all the time 
why let one 40-minute game go 
by or one possession go by 
when you don't push yourself 
as hard as you can because you 
only get four years of this 
stuff." 
It had been six years since 
Marquette had last defeated 
Notre Dame, but Powell's first­
half scoring burst helped the 
Warriors lead for almost the 
entire first 20 minutes. 
Marquette led by as much as 10 
before going into the locker 
room with a 36-32 lead. 
"We knew we were a good 
enough team to go out and beat 
them if we olaved the wav we were capable of," said Powell. On two occasions in the first 
M>Photo half, he scored to break ties, Navy quarterback Alton Grizzard helped lead the Midshipmen to a 19-one on a baseline jumper at the 17 victory over arch rival Army at the Meadowlands on Saturday. The buzzer and another on a three­victory was the first for Navy over Army in three years. point play. Powell followed the 
three-point play with a dunkthe challenge. and enabled the Midshipmen's that put Marquette ahead 24­Schenk, who missed a chip-seniors to avoid going through 19, then had three baskets andshot field goal earlier in the their entire careers without a an assist that comprised the season that cost the win over Army. 
Warriors' last eight points ofMidshipmen a win against The victory also made Navy the half. 
Delaware, hit a 32-yarder with coach Elliot Uzelac 1-for-1 as a "He played really well," said11 seconds left Saturday to give fortune teller. 
Irish guard Joe Fredrick. "OnceNavy a 19-17 victory over he hit a few, every time he shot, Army, snapping a three-game "I said, 'Son, you're going to he thought he could score. Youlosing streak to the Cadets. kick the winning field goal don't get those kind of nightsThe victory, at Giants against Army,' " Uzelac told very often, and when you do,Stadium in the New Jersey Schenk after the missed field you take advantage." 
Meadowlands, gave Navy a 42-goal against Delaware. "I Powell, a 6-6 junior, scored41-7 advantage in the 90-game didn't think it was going to be points both on short jumpseries. which started in 1890, this week." 
shots and on power play inside 
not hit over the Irish center, and Notre Dame slowly crept 
back  to  take  the  lead  on  
Bennett's jumper.  
But when Tower fouled  out  

with 5:02 left to play, Powell seized control of the game, scoring 8 points in three min­utes. The Warriors sewed up the victory by hitting 9 out of 10 free throws in the last two minutes. They were 33 for 37 for the game from the charity stripe. 
"When the game got close and we missed some shots they got excited and made some shots, and we made some turnovers. Everything will fall into place, I just don't know when," said co-captain Jarnere Jackson. who had another 
We knew coming in what his tendencies were," said Tower. "(Assistant) coach (JefD Nix told us he'd only gone off his right shoulder one time in the three games he'd watched him. He's only 6-6, and it's some­times difficult for a shorter guy to shoot over a bigger guy. I tried to make him go off his right· shoulder and raised my hands up. 
Irish coach Digger Phelps praised Tower's defense on Powell. 
"Keith Tower did the best de­fensive job on Powell," said Phelps, whose Irish teams had won 12 straight games from Marquette before Saturday. "He knew how to play him and studied him well. He knew when to shift his hands from 
whichever side he was facing you with his back to the basket. I thought that was the reason Tower did an excellent job." 
When Powell drove and drew Tower's fifth foul with 5:02 left in the game, Tower was forced to watch the rest of the game from the sidelines. Notre Dame's defense of Powell dis­appeared with Tower's depar­ture. 
"He's been playing the same type of game throughout the years we've been playing them," said Irish forward Keith Robinson. "It's just a matter of playing tough defense on him." 
Powell hit both free throws after the foul to give Marquette a 54-53 lead. After Elmer Bennett put the Irish back on top, Powell hit a seven-footer over Monty Williams as the Warriors regained the lead. 
That basket started a 15-3 Marquette run, in which Powell scored eight points. The rest of the game was merely a free­throw shooting exhibition for the Warriors. 
Powell was a part of Marquette's 33-of-3.7 effort from the line, connecting on all nine of his free throws. He shot 8-of-20 from the field, with many of the misses coming early in the second half. 
"Trevor started out a little bit stiff, a little bit tentative on the ankle," said O'Neill. "He had some shots that he didn't hit that he normally hits. At the same time, he made some super big plays down the stretch." 
rough game, shooting just 1 for 8 form the field. 
The Irish shot just 43 percent from the field as a team and turned the ball over 19 times. Center Keith Robinson, who scored 10 points and grabbed 10 rebounds, was the worst of­fender in the turnover depart­ment as he gave the ball away 7 times. 
"We just have to get some confidence as far as winning is concerned," said Phelps. "Once you get in a slump, you've got the paint. 
"He's a good player, and he can do a lot of things inside for a guy as small as he is," said 6­11 Irish center Keith Tower. "We knew he was the key to their inside game. At times he exploded, and at times we stuffed him." 
Notre Dame managed to con­tain Powell in the beginning of the second half, when Tower was guarding him. Powell scored only two points ~n a span of almost 15 minutes, and the Irish took a 53-52 lead during that time. 
to work your way out of it. The only way I know how is just 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from
through working hard and keeping things simple." 
9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314 LaFortune.
The Irish will meet # 13 UCLA at the Joyce ACC this coming 
Sunday at 9:00. 
Student Security Escort Service 
Informational Meeting about employment as escorts 
Monday, December 11, 8:00p.m. Sorin Room at LaFortune 
*applications will be available 

Old College Nights 
Tuesday, Dec. 12 7:00p.m. 
Fr. Michael Himes Associate Professor, Theology will lead a discussion on 
PRIESTHOOD: WHAT IS A PRIEST? 
Old college nights are a time of shared hospitality, discussion, and prayer welcoming college students and others who are exploring an interest in pursui~~ a process of discerning a vocation to ministry and religious life in Holy Cross. The Old College is located on the Notre Dame campus facing St. Mary's Lake immediately behind the Log Chapel and Architecture Building. 
-
-

Monday, December 11, 1989
page 14 The Observer 
Irish hockey swept by Ferris State 
Dahl, Jones may miss bowl 

By GREG GUFFEY Assistant Sports Editor 
Hccords arn deceiving. Just ask the Notre Dame hockey team. 
Ferris Stale, 2-11-3 before last wtwkcnd's games, swept the Irish by scores of 7-5 and 7-2 in a home-and-home series. 
The Bulldogs improved to 4­11-3 and showed that playing in the always-tough Central Collegiaw Hockey Assoeiation has its advantages. Notre Dame fell to 10-4. 
"Every week they have to play one of the top teams in the eountry," Notrn Dame coach Hie Schafer said. "They were physically bigger and stronger than us. It makes us a better hockey team. 
"We can't be so naive to think we're in the upper echelon of college hockey. We're a team with live scholarships divided 12 ways and everyone works hard." 
The Irish had several chances to salvage a split in Saturday's game at the Joyce ACC before 1,403 fans. 
Notre Dame had 10 power­play opportunities thanks to 10 Ferris State penalties. The biggest example of Notre Dame's futility came in the sec­ond period when it could not convert with a 5-on-:{ advan­tage. 
"Our power play sputtered badly tonight," Schafer said. "But their penalty killing de-



Hoops 
continued from page 16 
run the fast break with Karen Hobinson. If I'm not doing that, I'm not doing my job," said llaysbcrt. 
"In the first half we missed some shots and they were really fired up," said McGraw, "They played a great 30 minutes, but I think we finally did what Wf1 

Ric Schafer 
fense is really good." 

The Bulldogs vaulted to a 2-0 lead in the first period. Daniel Chaput capped a 2-on-1 break­away when he slid one past Irish goalie Lance Madson with just 2:31 gone. 26 seconds later Hod Taylor made it 2-0 when he seored in front of the goal with an assist to Mike Jorgensen and John dePourcq. 
Notre Dame finally got on the board at the 1 :03 mark of the second pnriod when Bruce Guay tallied to make the score 2-1. Freshman Dan Sawyer tie the game at 4:35 on Notre Dame's only power-play goal of the evening. 
The Bulldogs then took charge, scoring three goals within a three-minute span late in the period to boost the lead to 5-2. They added two insur­
had to do and played well for the last 10 minutes." 
All five starters scored in double ligures for Notre Dame. Sophomore center Margaret Nowlin scored 16 points and added 8 rebounds, while Licbscher added 15 points and was 9 for 10 from the foul linn. As a team, the Irish made 30 out of their 35 free throw at­tempts (86 percent). 
The passing of Robinson is ance goals for the final margin of victory. 


"To beat them we had to play our best and maintain the mo­mentum in the second period," Schafer said. "Had we gone up by one or two goals, I think it might have made our work easier for the rest of the night " 
On .Friday in Big Hapids, Mich., Ferris State also jumped out to a 2-0 lead in the first pe­riod. Irish sophomore Pat Arendt cut the advantage to 2-1 near the end of the period. 
The Bulldogs again took con­trol with three goals midway through the second period to extend their advantage to 5-1. Then, Notre Dame got goals from David Bankoske and Erie Gregoire to trail just 5-3 at the end of two periods. 
Ferris State's Bill Thomas gave the Bulldogs a 6-3 lead and some breathing room early in the final stanza, but the Irish again came back. Lou Zadra and Bruce Guay both tallied to pull Notre Dame within one at 6-5 with 11:35 left to play. 
The Irish could not score when they pulled Madson out of the net and the Bulldogs hit an empty net with 44 seconds re­maining for the final margin. 
"After the first 10 minutes of the game, we settled down," Schafer said. "We had a chance to tie the game late in the third period." 
Observer Staff Heport that they may be able to fin­ish tlw work on limn and 
Notre Dame might have to eompnte in the Orange Bowl. compete in the Orange Bowl "Wc'rn going to lind out minus two starters on de­this week," said Dahl, who is fense, according to a press taking 1 H ermlit hours this release issued Saturday. semester. "If I praetic.n, 
In the release, Irish head can play. I really don't havn coach Lou lloltz stated that any answers for you yet." defensive tackle Bob Dahl Dahl. who has started on and outside linebacker the line all this season in t\ndre Jones would have to place of the acadPrnieally miss the New Year's Day ineligible George Williams, game in Miami to work on has recorded 52 tackles. their academics. In Sunday's issue of Tlw 
"We asked how many peo­South Bend Tribune, .Jones ple had a problem juggling said, "I've got to tighten football and academies -some things down in my t\ndre and Bob do," said Japanese and Hussian Holtz. "They arc here, num­classes. I decided along with ber one, to get an education, Coach Holtz that studying and that's first and fore­was the best thing this wt~nk. most. I applaud them." This plaee is no Cracker 
Both players have to finish Jack box. And I'd rather get up some academie assign­my dp,gree than play one ments that may knep them game." out of practice. According to team policy this would force Bryan Flannery, a versatilP them out of action for the senior with starting expPri­game with top-ranked enee, would probably get the Colorado. nod if Dahl is unable to 
"It will hurt us, but that's make the Orange Bowl. a part of life," said Holtz. Sophomort~ pass-rushing "We have a policy here that specialist Devon McDonald if you don't practice you would be the likely starter if don't play." Jones does not play in 
But the Ia ers indicaterl Miami. 
•
: ?laftlul 21a 

one of the biggest reasons that 
the ball is distributed so evenly. 
"Karen really knows how to get the ball to Krissi Davis," • said McGraw, "And Margaret Nowlin had a good day for us inside as well." 


LtWe '14· 

Notre Dame returns home to 
~.tjilta.

meet Michigan State this coming Wednesday at 7:30 at 
AHU~. il!?edea4.

the Joyce ACC. In the meantime 
•

the Irish hope that Davis's &~ 
• 

injury is not serious and •
•

Hobinson's continues to heal. ................................................: 
Registry Rally to the Orange Bowl 
December 26th, 1989-January 4th, 1990 
3 Nights $430.00 5 Nights $645.00 Prices per person, double occupancy (Single occupancy rates available) 
Upgrade to deluxe room  Special pool and beach activities  
Special in-room amenities each  Complimentary tennis court  
evening  times  
Bottle of wine with  Complimentary use of our  

Manager's compliments complete health club during dinner in Lafite Complimentary beach cabana Courtesy airport pickup 
Supervised children's activities Chartered bus to Orange Bowl, then return to Naples Children under 18 stay free in 
parent's room Orange Bowl Brunch game day 
New Year's Eve ball featuring Box of "Gourmet Goodies" for the fabulous "Coasters" your game day dinner 
See your travel agent or calll-800-247-9810 
6 :!fie 









REG!~I~ 
~ 
475 Seagate Drive, Naples, Florida 33940 
~onday, December 11, 1989 The Observer page 15 
MENUS CROSSWORD 


ACROSS 27 Wallet cards: 
Notre Dame 
Abbr. 
1 Office messages 30 Extinguishes a

Roast Pork Loin w/ Apples 
candle

Turkey Noodle Casserole 6 Feminine pronoun 
34 Make appear 
Gyro 
more pleasant

9 Blockhead 37 Mortar between 
13 Over 

tiles 14 Doctors' org. 

38 Sesame 15 High nest 
39 Place to hang a 16 Jury 
ring 17 Cuban farm 
41 Mature, as wine product 
42 "... smooth 19 Tangle 
-":Shak. 21 Purposeful trip 
44 Tree in a Eugene 22 Speedy plane Field poem 23 Chair 46 Landlord's income
24 Pulitzer Prize novelist: 1958 48 Sailor 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
N s I0
L A ws ~· H I R c AA L I I EIR G 0 T B E AM SI N G ~R T E 0 L Y  
STONE THEOREMS APE TWO 0 0 U BNS E NIT EN T E S  
ETNA APNEAL.OCA AHALT AGA.SAXON L EM. 0 RIN E RIY~ I L D  
T R I P L E A L L I A N C E S  
OLA~~LDISPERSE OSAGE C LA Ui H T 
H 0 ME R I E R ATOYINASAL ATLI LAG E G R EIAIT M U S E  

49 Chemical suffixes 50 Greek letters 52 Dine 54 Oared.galley 56 Ancient ascetics so Table accessory 62 Derogatory, in a sly way 63Gaits 64 Suffix with fail or press 65 Brilliance 66 Bronte's Jane 
67 Caustic 68 Abounds 

DOWN 1 Contents of an atlas 2 Israel's Abba 
3 Louvre's "­Lisa" 4Abroad 5 Vends 6 Door fastener 7 Rhea's cousin aStorms 9 City in Ill. or Ga. 10 Algerian port 11 The Swedish Nightingale 12 Golfer's gadget 

15 Gordon Jenkins was one 18 Greek god of war 20 City on the Mohawk 24 "-Is Born" 25 Assumed appearance 26 A king of Moab 28 June bugs 29 Portdu­(cheese) 

31 Young horses 53 item oi 32 Musical 
ownership composition 54 inter 33 Stalks 
55 Composer Stravinsky35 Storytellers 

56 Robert­

36 Roman garment 
57 Cairo's river 

40 Reveals 
58 Netherlands 

43 Repeat 
cheese 45 Power 
59 Places 47 Ewe's offspring 60 Jeanne d'Arc's 51 Capital of South title: Abbr. Korea 61 Distorted 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
'tlAAT ~ '{0\J \)C)ING still IN B'ED ?! l''it. ct>.\..lt.D iO\J 1\-\R££ Tll-\ES! ~0\J'R£ GCliNG TO M\5'5 11\E 
B\JS! 
WILBUR AND WENDEL 
"TW>,T's TI-l£ 1ro>. . n~ 
ST~~ING IN B£1) \JN\Il 
C~R\'5\t-'IP!'S. I: WI\..NT M'S af LOOT 11\1s "£Fo.R , ~NO I 
FIGURE l'\'i CW\NC£'5 Of Bt.\NG 1::1:1$) IMI'~~E ~IL'{ IF 1. 1)01'\'t Gt:l \JP. 
I 
DISClB£'{INE. 'iQIJR Mo~t.R l'>.f'.l\) 1'\\SSII'IG T\-1£ '2.\J'S \'51'1'1 
Gcr:J'V. rrs 
~\). 
BILL WATTERSON 

T\.\~1 Vt>-RI'I 'SM-\1~ 1-\P.S Go\ t-'lt. t.'I£R'( Wt-.'1 1 1\JAA. 
\ 
--.~
'!• 

~-~,z.! 
JAY HOSLER 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
C19113Ct!ronK:t.Featurn Dlstrtbuted by Universal Press Syndiclit. 
0 
0 

0 0 

: ..................................................................................................................... . 
• 

Performing flrts and Campus Intertalnment Commissions • 
Call the SUB Office at 239-7757 if you're interested. 

" ~ 
._J 

Sports
page 16 Monday, December 11. 1989 
Irish continue slump with 80-68 upset loss to Marquette 
NO suffers 3rd straight loss Powell puts 
By KEN TYSIAC opPning minutes of the game at 
h I • h 
Sports Writer 51-50. Urt 0 n n s 
MILWAUKI(E-TakP a Saturday aftPrnoon. Mix with sonw poor hall handling. sprin­kle in sonw bad shooting and add a pinch of irwpt post dl!­fnnsP and you havn the rncipP for tlw Notrl' Dame nwn's bas­kPtball team's SO-hS loss at MarqtwttP this past Saturday aftPrnoon. 
MarquPttP is hardly thn MidwPstPrn hoops powerhouse it was in tlw 1970s, but that hardly rnadP a dif'fprencn against NotrP Dame. Tlw IPthargir Irish simply rouldn't find tlw right ingn~dients to put thn Warriors in tlwir place as h-6 junior TrPvor Powell scomd 25 points and yanked down 9 rPbounds to IPad thn way for MarquPttP. 
"Wn had our chances to grab it and W<' just didn't," said Irish coach l>iggPr Phelps, "It didn't matter who it was. because ev­Prybody had an opportunity and wlwther it was a missed shot. or a rebound, or a drive, or even foul shots. WI'! just didn't come! through when we had ..a chance to pull this thing out. 
Notrn Dame's best chance to pull the game out oceurred with 
7:49 left in thP game as sopho­more Elrnnr Bmmntt's double pump jurnpl'r in the lam~ gave his team its first lead since the 
Marquette's Tony Smith, who finished with 20 points, hit two free throws to put MarquPlte back alwad. BPnrwtt then traded scores twiee with the Warriors and Jew Frc~drick made a free throw to tin it at 
56. Marquette~ promptly re­sponded with a 13-2 run to put the game away. 
"All tlwy kPpt saying in the huddle was that tlwy'w not let­ting this one get away," Marquette coach Kevin O'Neill said of his players. "And they didn't. They stnppnd up to the foul line and made the shots, they didn't turn it over down the stretch. and to their credit they went ahead and won the game." 
Notre Dame had won its last 12 games against Marquette, but one could sense early that this game might be different. The Irish. coming off of road losses against Louisville and Indiana. trailnd for almost the entire first half, and when Powell made two free throws the Warriors led 32-22 with 
I:49.remaining in the half. 
Phelps changed to a shorter, quicker limmp at that point, however, inserting 6-7 fresh­man Monty Williams for 6-9 senior Keith Hobinson. The Irish forced two Marquette 
see Irish I page 13 




By MIKE CANZONIERO 
Sports Writer 
Thn 16th ranked Notre Dame wrestling team continued its impn~ssive season yesterday at thn .IACC, when they rocked thP Hndbirds of Illinois State by a seore of 23-12. 

It was the home opener for the Irish and despite a small crowd of 192 fans. the wrestlers started off strong, winning the first three matches and jumping out to a I0-0 lead. The Irish never relinquished that lead. 
In order· to keep the match close and take some pressure off the wrestlers during this busy part of the school year, Irish coach Fran McCann wrestled half of the team at a w1~ight class above their normal competing weight. 
Although the Irish still domi­nated the match. it was obvious that this was the first dual meet of the season for the team. The intensity level was low for most of the match and the wrestling was sluggish for both teams. 

"We didn't wrestle up to our capabilities," said senior Pat Boyd, ranked 3rd in the nation by Amateur Wrestling News. "They moved some of us a weight class up, but I don't think that was a factor. It was the first match of the season, we will learn from it." 
The Irish w.ere on the offen­sive most of the match and it looked like their powerful at­tack was too much for the Redbirds to handle. At one point in Pat Boyd's 150 lb. bout, he amassed an impressive four takedowns in 95 seconds. 
Notre Dame senior Andy Hadenbaugh took another step towards the 100 career win plateau as he easily handl1~d his 126 lb opponent, Chuck Wagner, 16-6. In the third pn­riod Hadenbaugh executed a powerful ankle pick for a take­down that put the match out of Wagner's reach. Radenbaugh now needs only 9 victories to 
join the elite group of six Irish wrestlers who have won 100 matches or more. 
Notre Dame Junior Dave lacoponi's got the Irish off to a quick start. In his first match of the season, he wrestled tough at 118 lbs, beating Andy 
see Wagner I page 12 


By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Associate Sports Editor 

MII.WAUKJ<:H Tr·pvor Powl'll. MarquPttP's top rNurn­ing scorer and n~boundPI' from last sPason. did not PXpPrt to start Saturday against Notre Danw becausP of an ankiP in­jury. 
"Against Loyola (TuPsday) I had a really bad sprain." said thP junior forward. who was listPd as qunstionabiP for Saturday's contPst. "AftPr yl's­terday's practien, I was UIH'Pr­tain wlwtlwr I'd start.· 
By the time the MarquPttP student body stormPd thP Bradley CnntN court to cple­brate thn Warriors' H0-6S win ovPr tlw Irish. Notn~ I>anw could only sit back and wish PowPII was as good at judging injuril~s as lw was at driving to thP basket. 
l'owPII. not listPCf in tlw pn~ganw starting lineup. went on and did take tlw floor for tipoff. and responded with 13 first-half points. lie f'inishnd with 25 points. nint' rnbounds and three blocked shots in 37 minutr~s of action. 
"That was a very SPvere sprain," Marqunw~ coach Kevin O'Neill said after the game. "If 
see Irish 1page 13 
Haysbert takes charge as Irish beat Warriors 87-67 

By KEN TYSIAC 
Sports Writer 

MILWAUKEE-Sophomore forward Comalita llaysb1•rt led a second half explosion as tlw Notn~ Dame women's basketball tPam whipped Marquette in tlw MilwaukeP Auditorium on Saturday by a score of S7-(J7. 
The Irish trailed 57-56 when llaysbcrt decided to take charge. She hit a short baseline shot. She fed !Pam­mate Sara Liebschnr for a jumper in the corner. She cut to the hoop to score on a gorgeous feed feed from Karen Robinson, made two free throws. and made a driving, twisting double pump layup. 
When llaysbert's nurry was finally through, Notre Dame had scored 14 straight points to take a 70­57 lead, the Warriors had lost their poise and coach Muffet McGraw's squad was on its way to victory. 
"We realized that we weren't executing," said llaysbert, who led the Irish with 19 points, "We knew we had to play better. We weren't playing as a team in the second half, but we put it all together late in the game." 
Notre Dame shined defen­sively during Haysbert's scoring outburst. The Irish put tremendous pressure on the ball, holding Marquette scoreless for five and a half minutes. 
"This year we're playing a lot better on defense. Team defense does the job for you on offense, and if everyone continues to pressure the 
ball for us. we will bP sur­
wssful." said junior guard 
KarPn Hobinson, who playpd 
30 minutes and seorPd 14 
points dPspitn nursing a sorP 
IPft ankle. 

"Tiwir defPnsn dPniPd us on tlw wings and dPniPd our shots. and that hurt us. WP couldn't control our of'f'PnsP Tfwir dPfPnsP was exi'PIIPnl. WP couldn't control our of­fpnse and tlwy just tin•d us out," moanPd Sister Maria Pares, who coaches tlw Warriors. 
Marquette usnd freqtwnt substitutions to wear down thl' Irish on the boards in the first half'. The Warriors. who outrPbounded NotrP Dame 40-2H for the ganw, pounded their way to a 2S­22 first half lead. 
But junior forward Krissi Davis. who went down early with a back injury but re­turned to score 14 points, capped a 9-0 Irish run with a three-point ·play to give Notre Dame a :~ 1-28 lead with 1:37 left in the half. The Irish took a one-point lead into the locker room. 
Both teams shot well in thn beginning of the second half, as the lead changBd hands 13 times in the first nine minutes before llaysbert took control. But llaysbert's driving buckets and fast break layups broke Marquette's heart. 
"That's what she (McGraw) wants me to do, drive to the hole. This year I can shoi>t a little more from the outside, but the first thing I look for is a drive. One of my roles is also to 
see Hoops/ page 14 
~ 





