

Bone chilling
IACCENT: Play reviews Partly cloudy today with a chance of snow showers. Highs in the middle to upper 
teens. Clear and very cold
IVIEWPOINT: ND candidates endorsed 
tonight. Lows around zero. 


ticket of Lisa Amore for presi­
Lawmaker unsatisfied with North denials 
dent; Elizabeth Ehret for vice 
Election debates are held 
By CARLA PRANDO 
News Staff 
Improving communication between student government and the student body was the focus of the Notre Dame Stu­dent Body Presidential Debates Wednesday night. 
During the opening state­ments, the Rask-Smith ticket presented a platform which proposed a "consistent" housing policy, guaranteed stu­dent housing, implementation of an off-campus crime policy, expansion of cultural diversity and increased faculty-student interaction. 
The Fahey!Benedictus ticket's platform centered on the idea of monarchy. As Fahey said, "I am not running for president. I am running for king." Co-residential housing, a student union, discussion of sexual issues such as AIDS and birth control and softer toliet paper in the rest rooms were some of the issues emphasized by the ticket. 
The McTamaney;Russell ticket proposed plans for in­stalling phones in the parking lots, working for a computer­ized bulletin board to inform students of campus events and better defining the role student government. 
The BreslinKinkopf ticket suggested installing telephones in all campus buildings, estab­lishing a legal department for students and having hot sand­wiches in the dining hall. 
The issue of off-campus crime and improving relations with the South Bend commu­nity was also addressed by all four tickets. The Fahey!Benedictus ticket said that landlords should be forced to install burglar alarms in off-
See DEBATE, page 3 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The former House intelligence committee chairman testified Wednesday at Oliver North's trial that his first inquiries about reports of 
U.S. military help to the Nicaragua Contras met with repeated official denials. 
Rep. Lee Hamilton, D-Ind., the first prosecution witness, said he got denials in two let­ters from then-National Secur­ity Adviser Robert McFarlane and at a committee briefing before he finally asked for a meeting with North, then an aide on the National Security Council staff. 
The inquiries were first made in August 1985 following news reports that North was helping raise money for the Contras and giving the rebels tactical military advice despite prohibitions on U.S. aid first enacted by Congress in the so­called Boland Amendment of 1984. 
"Colonel North insisted he had not violated the Boland Amendment, that he was not assisting the Contras by raising money, that he had not pro­vided any military advice to the Contras," Hamilton said. 
Hamilton said he asked McFarlane about the media reports. 
I 
Catenacci ticket wins in SMC election 
The candidates for student body president and vice-president at Notre Dame debate Wednesday 


Candidates rally to collect votes in election campaign 
night in Cushing auditorium. A few topics included off-campus problems and coresidentiality. 
By LAURA DOWNS 
Staff Reporter 

Personal appearances, door­to-door campaigning, poster placement and flyer distribu­tion are methods the student body presidential and vice­presidential candidates are using to win votes in this year's student government elections. 
Each of the four tickets run­ning, Matt Breslin and Dave Kinkopf, Bob McTamaney and Pat Russell, Tom Rask and Melissa Smith and Dan Fahey (the "monarch" candidate) say they are also currently in the process of making personal appearances in each dorm and introducing themselves to as many students as possible. "We're doing that (going dorm­to-dorm) so we can have stu­dents recognize the face that goes with the name and give them a brief summary of why we feel we are the best candi­
"When McFarlane told me they were not engaged in raising funds for the Contras and that the National Security Council was not providing mil­itary advice. . . I took Mr. McFarlane's word for it. I relied upon what the national security adviser for the presi­dent told me," he said. 
For that reason, said Hamil­ton, he did not pose questions about the Contras to the CIA or the Defense Department. 
Prosecutors are trying to show that North, then a Marine lieutenant colonel serving on the NSC staff, subverted the processes of government by helping McFarlane draft false dates," according to presiden­tial candidate Rask. 
Presidential candidate McTamaney said, "We don't want (door-to-door campaign­ing) to be a nuisance; we're not going to wake anyone up or call­them on the phone. We just want a realistic sample of what people on campus are think­ing." 
The methods each candidate employs to gain votes must fit into a framework of rules pro­vided by the Ombudsman Elec­tion Committee. Campaigning officially began at 12 a.m. on February 20 and is scheduled to end by midnight on February 26 giving the candidates one full week to introduce their platforms to the student body. 
All of the candidates said they are using posters to publicize their ideas. 
Ombudsman set a $125 cam­paign limit for all tickets as well. The candidates said they answers to letters from Congress inquiring about the news reports. 
North is charged, among other things, with obstructing congressional inquiries into his activities in 1985 and 1986. McFarlane, who is expected to testify as a prosecution wit­ness, has pleaded guilty to four misdemeanor counts of with­holding information from Congress. 
Before the jury was admitted to the courtroom, Hamilton was cautioned not to refer in any way to the public testimony North gave in 1987 at a televised hearing of the House­Senate committees . 
have paid for their tickets out of their own funds and that no donations have been made. 
Candidates have also had the opportunity to publicize their campaign issues through inter­views with "Scholastic" Mag­azine and a talk show on campus radio station WVFI Tuesday night. All three presidential candidates were featured on a WVFI program where they answered questions posed by call-in listners. In the Wednesday night debate, the candidates also presented their ideas to the student body. 
The election will be held February 27. "Most of all, we wartt to encourage the students to vote because, by voting, they voice their concerns on the problems facing the student body, and they are trusting that candidate to represent these concerns to the administra­tion," said vice-presidential candidate Smith. 
By BRIGID BRENNAN 
News Staff 

Saint Mary's students chose to "steer in the right direction" and "ride with experience" when they elected the 
. Catenacci ticket in the student body elections Wednesday. The Saint Mary's student body government for 1989-90 consists of Lisa Catenacci, stu­dent body president; Deirdre Milon, vice president for aca­demic affairs; and Mary Beth Blajda, vice president for stu­dent affairs. Catenacci's ticket defeated the McGowan ticket of Shannon McGowan for student body president; Debbie Neiman for vice president for academic af­fairs; and Kathy Sullivan for vice president for student af­fairs by a 15 percent margin. The Catenacci ticket carried 57 percent of the votes, while the McGowan ticket had 42 per­cent. "It was a close race, just like we knew it would be," Catenacci said. "My ticket and I felt McGowan was extremely qualified and the students would have had a good presi­dent no matter how the results turned out." Catenacci did add, "We're ecstatic over our victory." Michelle Agostino, elections commissioner, reported that there was a 45 percent voter turnout. "The only disappointing fac­tor was the bad turnout on the part of the student body," McGowan said. "I just don't feel that there was an adequate reflection of the school." In response to their defeat, McGowan said, "I'm sure they will do a fine job, and I hope to work with them in some capacity next year." 
In the senior class elections, neither of the tickets received the majority of vote, so the 
president; Amy Blong for sec­retary and Laurel Vitale for treasurer, with 38 percent of the vote, will compete in a run­off election with Tara Melichar for president, Carol Berkowski for vice president, Kristin Dietzler for secretary and Jane Schnell for treasurer, carrying 32 percent of the vote. The run-off election will be held during all meals in SAGA on February 24. 
The unopposed junior class ticket of Kathy Schmidt for president, Kristine Gregory for vice president, Andrep Burkhart for secretary and 
See ELECTION, page 5 



page 2 
IN BRIEF 

Sewer gases engulfed The Crooked Creek Elementary School in Indianapolis and about 500 students were evacuated, authorities said. Johnny Dial, building super­visor, said the fumes were first noticed at about 2 p.m. Tuesday in the basement. When the fumes spread Wed­nesday to the rest of the building, the students and teachers were evacuated and firefighters were called. -Associated Press 
OF INTEREST 
St. Edward's Hall Forum presents Father Oliver Williams, the associate provost, on "Where I Stand on Investments in South Africa" today at 7 p.m. in St. Ed­ward's Hall. -The Observer 
The Joint Engineering Council needs volunteers to help stuff envelopes today at 6:30p.m. in the Enginee­ring Student Center. Proceeds from this event will go for new furniture in the student center. Call Chad at 283-1501 or Jane at 283-2297 for more information. -The Observer 
Third World Awareness Week continues today with a firstthird world dinner at 5:30p.m. and a presenta­tion by CILA of student volunteer work in Mexico at 8 
p.m. Both activites are at the Center for Social Concerns. 
-The Observer 

Friday Forum attheCenter for Social Concern tomorrow at 12:15 p.m. is the second in the series on "The Year of Cultural Diversity." Associate Professor of Economics Jennifer Warlick will speak on "The Culture of Poverty: Myth or Reality?" -The Observer 
IBM information day from 1 to 5 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center. IBM will arrange interviews to take place the next day for positions in Engin­eering, Computer Science, and Technical Sales. Summer opportunities are also available. -The Observer 
Judicial board chairpersons materials for student body elections will be available in the Student Government offices on February 24. -The Observer 
St. Hedwig's Outreach Center needs your basketball tickets for the Louisville game on March 4. Anyone who would like to donate their tickets for these children should give them to Tom King in 338 Morrissey or your own hall president. -The Observer 
The Morrissey Manor Film Festival will be held Friday at 7:30p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. The festival, in its first year, will feature short films made by each dormitory and awards honoring the best entries will be presented. -The Observer 
Notre Dame Chorale and Orchestra present Maurice Durufle's "Requiem" and Gabriel Faure's "Can­tique de Jean Racine" on February 26, at 8 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. -The Observer 
Sister Thea Bowman, internationally acclaimed lecturer, evangelist and singer, will lead an ecumenical gathering in a evening session of prayer and song entitled "Black Spirituality: We've Come This Far by Faith." Joining Sister Thea will be Notre Dame's Gospel En­semble, Voices of Faith, at 8 p.m. in the Knott Hall chapel on February 25. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and other public service 
announcements may be submitted at The Observer main 
office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 
1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interest an­
nounces free, campus-wide events of general interest. Lec­
ture Circuit announces on-campus and local lecturers. 
Campus announces other events of general interest, free 
or paid. The Observer reserves the right to edit all sub­
mitted materials and determine if and where announce­
ments will be published. -The Observer 

Design Editor ................. Kathy Huston Viewpoint Layout ................. Moira Fox Design Assistant .............. Beth Peterson Accent !Editor .............. Robyn Simmons Typesetters..... .Bernard Brenninkmeyer Accent Copy Editor .. Michelle Berninger ........................................Kurt Wildthing Typist .................................. Will Zamer News Editor...................... Michelle Dall ........................................Diana Bradley Copy Editor ....................... Missy Weber ND Day Editor ..... Margaret McCloskey Sports Copy Editor......... Molly Mahoney SMC Day Editor .......... Rozel Gatmaitan Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... Kim Skiles Photographer ................... Kim O'Conner 
nt 01i11nw (USPS S99 2..-clOO) is published Monday throu&h Friday exc:epcdurilll-ud qcation periods. ne.,._..eris published by the students or the Ulliwnity of Nacre Dune ud s.int Mary's Collqc. Subaaipti0111 may be purclw­ed rcw 140 per year (S2S per-ter) by writilll De Olllenw, P.O. Box Q, Notre o-e, Jlllliua46SS6. 
ne Olillnw ia • member of ne MlodaiM ...... All reproduction riabU are 
_...._ " 

The Observer Thursday, February 23, 1989 
INSIDE COLUMN 


ND T -shirts should be sold by students 
After watching the Irish win the Fiesta Bowl over Winter Break, I prepared myself for the inevitable: National Championship T-shirts. 
I expected students to be selling every possi­ble kind of Notre Dame National Champs T­shirt when I got back from break. Strangely enough, only one person actually came to my door selling his wares. Finally, in the February 9 issue of The Observer, I read an article that partially explained the scarcity of student de­signed T-shirts. According to the story, the Uni­versity brought legal action against Umbrella Graphics, a Mishawaka retail store, for produc­ing unlicensed products bearing the Notre Dame trademark. 
Technically, the University has the law on its side, but what it really boils down to is the big fish eating the little fish. How in the world can a small firm in Mishawaka, Indiana stand up to the University of Notre Dame? By halting the production of items bearing the Notre Darp.e logo, the business probably will go under, unless they can come up with another T -shirt they could market, and I'm afraid "South Bend­Mishawaka: Alive With Pride" T-shirts wouldn't sell as fast as a Fighting Irish T-shirts. 
I suppose that the University is coming down on the retail store as a matter of principle, be­cause I doubt that the administration would be concerned about losing money. Somehow I don't see this school as hurting financially. With all the money it makes from our tuition, alumni contributions and football weekends, some little company in Mishawaka is hardly going to make a dent in their incoming revenue. 
By stopping this firm from producing Notre Dame T-shirts, there's only one place left for students to buy their National Championship T-shirts: the bookstore. This doesn't appeal to me for one simple reason: bookstore T -shirts are boring. I just don't buy T-shirts at the bookstore because I haven't found any designs that are as creative as the ones offered by the students at this school. 
According to the article of February 9, any products licensed to use the ND trademark would be regulated by the University. So even if Umbrella Graphics licensed their products, University censuring would reduce the originality of the student designs to the drab T-shirts offered by the bookstore. I don't think I'm the only one who finds student-made T­shirts more interesting than the University­approved clothing. Around the time of the in­famous Miami game, Sports Illustrated ran a 


Robyn Simmons 
Assistant Accent Editor 
')d WJtA'f IF U.M5t<6t.L-A 6.(APHICS WAS SiOfPEI)... 

.•:1t16 i1001t:STO.I.6 H.4s GABAI f--SrltllTsl
-. 
story about all of the hype surrounding the game. Receiving honorable mention were the numerous types (I believe 15 in all) of "Hate Miami" T-shirts circulating around campus. "Hate Miami" T-shirts made the pages of Sports Illustrated, "Notre Dame Football -100' Years of Tradition" T -shirts did not. 
Still, I don't think the bookstore has much to worry about. The way this campus is set up, the bookstore virtually has a monopoly on Notre Dame memorabilia (where else can you go to get Notre Dame golf tees and a desk set?) Every football weekend, thousands of alums bombard the bookstore to buy their conven­tional, conservative, Notre Dame apparel. And of course, students will continue to empty their bank accounts each semester to pay exorbitant fees on their textbooks. 
Umbrella Graphics isn't hurting the bookstore or the University as a whole. This University has enough money and power to run a small company into the ground, and I think the administration could spend its time and money doing something more productive than bullying local businessmen and busines­swomen. In other words, lay off. 

Observer classifieds will be accepted from
~=~:·:~-~~~~;:~~~:~~==:·~~;~·:~·:·~~ 

9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314
and w1sh her a happy one. By the way 
Laura, we do expect to see you dancing
II II LaFortune.
on pool tables tomght 

SAINT MARY'S PRESENTS: 
HAVE YOU 
EVER HAD A 
REAllY BIG SE<RET?



liHWE 
...camec~y

A-·'~ 

lWfNTIEIH ~fNlURY fOX Preserns A~RAC!f filMS Pmmon ot APfNNY MARSHAll Rim 10M HANKS "81~" RllABEIH PfRKINS ROBfRllOGGIA JOHN HfARO m-::ANNf SPiflBfRG 111 GARY ROSS ~ HOWARD SHORf 
Carroll Aud. Feb. 22-24 <)pm & llpm Feb. 26 lpm S1 Popcorn 50c sponsored by SMC History Club 
RAGTIME Thursday 7pm Haggar Game Room FREE! I 

-~--~-----~---~ ........--·-...~----------~ 

ESTEE LAUDER SUN 

SPRING BREAK ESSENTIALS! 
Before sun, OVERNIGHT PRE-TAN ACCELERATOR: with Biotan TM. A breakthrough -the one-day formula promotes faster, deeper tanning over­night, 5 oz. 12.50. In the sun, GOLDEN BRONZING OIL (SPF3): minimal sun protection for those who want a rich, glowing, golden tan, 5 oz. 12.50. Color without sun, SELF-ACTION TANNING CREME: creates a natural-looking tan color without the sun, 4 oz. 12.50. 

Thursday, February 23, 1989 The Observer 
Lawmakers critique S&L bailout bill Bush proposes 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-In their rush to catch up to thrift industry fraud and mismanagement, federal regulators may have unknowingly hired some of the culprits responsible for the savings and loan debacle, The Associated Press has learned. 
The Federal Home Loan Bank Board hired as many as 800 people-a "high percentage" of them from failed S&Ls-without perform­ing background checks, gov­ernment and industry officials said. 
Two of them are now targets of criminal investigations. One is being prosecuted for alleged fraud committed last year at the Federal Savings & Loan In­surance Corp., the agency that insures thrift deposits. 
The other has been ·trans­ferred from a top regulatory job while the FBI pursues a probe requested two years ago when his old S&L went under. 
CATHOLIC FAITH SERIES 
CATHOLICISM: COMMUNITY AND SACRAMENT 
Catholicism is an especially rich tradition within Christianity. It maintains that the Christian vision can and should embrace all times, places and cultures and all aspects of the human person. Catholicism is a form of Christian humanism. 
FR. MICHAEL J. HIMES is Associate Professor of Theology at Notre Dame. He was awarded with distinction a Ph.D. in the History of Christianity from the University of Chicago. He has served as Dean of Immaculate Conception Seminary, Huntington, N.Y. Most recently, at the invitation of the World Council on Religion and Peace, he delivered the address in honor of the fortieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights at the United Nations. Sunday, February 26 and Tuesday, February 28, Keenan Chapel 7-8:30 p.m. 

Regulatory officials in Wash­ington did not know about that inquiry, which had been launched in Dallas, when he was hired last year. 
The bank board made 6,000 such criminal referrals to the FBI from insolvent thrifts, as­king the bureau to look into spe­cific transactions and individ­uals. 
When employees of failed thrifts are hired as regulators, "that's a risk, sure," acknowl­edged bank board spokesman Bill Fulwider. 
Still, he added, "The assump­tion is it's generally not their fault the institution went down. They understand the assets, and they have expertise that's valuable." 
Most of the people hired to handle the billions of dollars' worth of property and loans seized from failed thrifts are honest, officials said. Yet they expect to find more bad apples. 
"I would not be surprised to see one or two instances of that emerging as the (Justice De­partment's bank fraud) task force proceeds," said U.S. At­torney Marvin Collins, who has been working on S&L fraud since the mid-1980s. 
Added one longtime industry official, who spoke on the con­dition of anonymity, "I would imagine there would be one or two others when you hire 800 people. Maybe 80 or 50 or 30 people-some percentage that drops over the line .... It will take a long time before it all gets out." 
The collapse of the S&L in­dustry is expected to cost some $100 billion to resolve. A large portion of that cost, officials have said, results from mis­management and outright fraud by S&L executives. 
Some criminal activity is still going on, Collins said."Some people feel they can take ad­vantage because the system is currently overloaded by inves­tigations," he said. "We'll be very attentive to them." 
fAMERICAN CANCERSOCIETY<!I 


Pre-Law Societ}' 
pting Applications for: 
President Vice-President Treasurer Secretary I News Letter Editor 
Applications can be picked up at 101 O'Shqughnessy and returned by F 24 
Debate 
continued from page 1 
campus housing to deter crime. The McTamaney!Russell ticket suggested that the South 
page 3 
Bend police department patrol student apartments during breaks. 
Breslin and Kinkopf said that increasing student awareness of crime through a student gov­ernment newsletter would be a solution. 
Private protection was em­phasized by the RasktSmith ticket. This protection would include paying police officers to patrol the neighborhoods. 
=RlB. 
SEAFOOD I!IC~ 
HRsrfllJRMIT 
Featuring Friday night seafood buffet and Sunday brunch 219-259-9925 


page 4 The Observer 
Court: State not responsible for protecting abused child 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The Su­preme Court, ruling against a child who suffered brain damage from repeated beatings by his father, said Wednesday states generally may not be sued even if they negligently fail to shield people from abuse by others. 
The 6-3 decision said public officials have no constitutional duty to protect those who are not in state custody. The court said there is no legal recourse even in the "undeniably tragic" case where officials were aware of the beatings but did not intervene. 
The court killed a lawsuit in behalf of Joshua DeShaney, a Wisconsin boy who since age 4 has been profoundly retarded and is expected to remain in­
stitutionalized for the rest of his 
life. 
Child welfare officials and the state were sued by Joshua's mother, Melody DeShaney, on grounds the boy was deprived of liberty without due process. 
But Chief Justice William Rehnquist, writing for the court, said, "Nothing in the lan­guage of the due process clause itself requires the state to protect the life, liberty and property of its citizens against invasion by private actors." 
"Because... the state had no constitutional duty to protect Joshua against his father's vio­lence, its failure to do so­though calamitous in hindsight-simply does not con­stitute a violation of the due process clause," he said. 
In an unusual emotional dis­sent, Justice Harry Blackmun said, "Poor Joshua! It is a sad commentary upon American life and constitutional prin­ciples... that this child, Joshua DeShaney, now is assigned to live out the remainder of his life profoundly retarded and without an opportunity to sue the state." 

Blackmun accused the court of "sterile formalism" for failing to grant Joshua and his mother an opportunty to seek damages from the state. 
Justices William Brennan and Thurgood Marshall also dissented. 
Rehnquist rejected argu­ments that the state had a duty to protect Joshua because it once had given him shelter and because social workers suspected he was being abused. 
Duke takes Louisiana House seat 
Associated Press 
BATON ROUGE, La.-David Duke, a former grand wizard of the Ku Klux Klan, overcame two last-minute challenges and was sworn into the Louisiana Legislature on Wednesday as black lawmakers vowed to keep an eye on him. 
Duke took the oath of office after surviving a lawsuit and an attempt by a lawmaker to deny him his House seat in a dispute over whether Duke was a legal resident of his suburban New Orleans district, which is 
99.6 percent white. 
"I want to allay fears that I will be divisive or a problem in this great body," Duke told his new colleagues. "I truly believe when we took the pledge of allegiance this mor­ning and we said 'Justice for all,' I believe in that for America. 
"And I believe that discrim­ination is wrong and reprehen­sible when it is waged against anyone, black or white, in this country." 
Duke, 38, smiled broadly and waved before Speaker Jim Dimos, who administered the oath, which followed an at­tempt by Rep. Odon Bacque to have the House investigate whether Duke lived in the Metairie district a year as re­quired by law. Opponents have said Duke lives a couple of blocks outside the district. 
Earlier Wednesday, John Treen, a 63-year-old Metairie homebuilder who fell to Duke 

INTER VARSITY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP 
5 Years Bible Study 
This week it's five years since our group has met the first time. So we considered for a moment to have a big celebra­tion commemorating this fact. But then we thought about it: Large-scale events isn't really what we are all about. 
What then are we about? If you come to our meeting, you'll just find a handful of people. There is no professional entertainment, we just share our thoughts about God. We read the Bible, talk, listen to what everybody else has to say, become f\oiends, pray together. 
So if you would like to have a closer look at us and what we do, ;tou are warmly invited to come and check us out. You don't 1:1eed to be a Christian or know the Bible or anything. Just bring a spoonful of curiousity. 
We meet Thursdays, 7pm, in 317 Lewis. If interested, just come, or call Jim (283 1621) or Eileen (283 3897). 
n1vers1ty o 

CHORALE ORCHESTRA 
present: 
Durufle 's Requiem 


Sunday, February 26 8:00pm Sacred Heart Church free admission 
by 227 votes in Saturday's spe­cial election, lost a last-minute lawsuit in state court to block Duke from being seated for not meeting the residency require­ment. 
Duke also was accepted by the House Republicans as one of their own, despite a move by national party chairman Lee Atwater to repudiate him as a member of the GOP. An anti­Duke resolution was drawn up Tuesday for action on Friday by the GOP executive council. 
Thursday, February 23, 1989 

AP Photo
Checking the votes 
David Duke checks the vote totals as the voting machines are opened at a warehouse in Kenner, La. Tuesday morning. Duke won a tight race against John Treen for the district 81 house seat in the Louisiana State Legislature. 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant News Editors News Copy Editors 
A one-page personal statement is due to Matt Gallagher by 5p.m., Fri., Feb 24. Any questions, contact Matt Gallagher at 239-5303 or 283-1957 


-~------~-~-~-~--­
Thursday, February 23, 1989 The Observer 
:~. 5 
Rutgers professor proposes idea for ND recycling project 

By KATHLEEN CROOKS News Staff 
The possible cash benefits of recycling was the topic of a lec­ture Wednesday afternoon by Professor Ray Ching of Rut­gers University. 
Ching said the Rutgers recy­cling program has made a good deal of money for the Univer­sity. "Notre Dame has literally got a gold mine in its trash bins," Ching said. 
Ching gave information on how to set up a recycling pro­gram and how to divide up recyclable items. He also gave a summary of the monetary benefits of recycling. 
Ching said the Rutgers pro­gram was started after manda­tory recycling laws were estab­lished in New Jersey. The program calls for recycling of newspaper, aluminum, glass and excess food from the uni­versity dining halls. The waste is sold to various companies who, in return, provide the col­lege with monetary and envi­ronmental benefits, Ching said. 
In implementing a program, Ching said it is important to make the recycling bins con­venient and "user-friendly." "We can't force people to com­ply; we must rely on people's concern for the environment and peer pressure...factors like that." Ching said. 
Ching also said that, in order to have a successful program, it is important to publicize it. "People can't respond to what they don't know about," Ching said. 
Sophomore Lisa Mackett, head of the Environmental Ac­tion Team at Notre Dame, said Professor Ching's lecture was the first step the University is taking in a possible effort to in­stitute a campus-wide recy­cling of cans, bottles, newspa­per and cardboard. 
Mackett said in her research of recycling projects, she looked for a program that would best fit the needs of the Notre Dame community. She found the Rutgers program to be "unbelievably efficient," and so she contacted Professor Ching. 
Mackett became interested in environmental issues after working on a class paper. She began doing more research on the subject and eventually formed the Environmental Ac­tion Team. 
Mackett said that the pro­gram has gotten a good response so far. "It is only going to work if students whole­heartedly support it. The goal is not to set up a 2 to 3 year program, but to make this an ongoing process," Mackett said. 
Mackett cited environmental concerns and monetary costs as reasons for implementing the program. "St. Joseph County has only one landfill left, and that will be full in 2 years, then what are we going to do?" said Mackett. 
Election 
continued from page 1 
Marjorie Maley for treasurer 
received 79 percent of the vote. 
There will also be a run-off in the sophomore class elec­tions between the ticket of Grer Gilliland for president, Wendy Garrett for vice president, Mic­helle Delaney for secretary and Peggy Abood for treasurer, carrying 37 percent of the votes, and the ticket of Liz Van­dersarl for president, Frannie Cappelleri for vice president, Maria Alvarez for secretary and and Debbie Wunder for treasurer, with 33 percent of the vote. 

SOUTH PADRE ISLAND  troms149·  
STEAMBOAT  ,,.,.s213·  
DAYTONA BEACH  troms11a·  
MUSTANG ISLAND  troms136.  
HILTON HEAD ISLAND  troms10T  

DON'T WAIT 'TIL II'S TOO LATE! 
CALL TOLL FREE TODAY 

1-800-321-5911 

THE MOST HIGHLY ACCLAIMED FILM OF THE YEAR! 
Michael Sr-agow, The San Francisco Examiner Jay Carr, Boston Globe 
"****" 
"CAPTIVATING:' 
Janet Maslin, The New York Times 
"RAPTUROUSlY GOOO:' 
Sheila Benson, los Angeles Times 




page 6 
Bush travels to Japan for first presidential trip 
Associated Press 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska-President Bush today launched a five-day mission to the Far East, his first overseas trip as president. The White House said the journey might not generate quick headlines, but would demonstrate that "the United States is an Asian power." 
Bush will also make a weekend visit to China and a 4-hour stop in South Korea. 
Following the 7-hour flight from Washington, the presi­dent spoke to members of the armed forces at a airplane han­gar at Elmendorf Air Force Base. 
Although it is unusual for an American president to travel overseas just 33 days after his inauguration, Bush decided to travel to Tokyo to represent the United States on Friday at the state funeral of Emperor Hirohito, who died of cancer at the age of 87 on Jan. 7. 
In prepared remarks in Alaska, Bush noted that El­mendorf was the first stop 18 years ago in a trip that made Hirohito the first emperor in Ja­panese history to set foot out­side his homeland. 
Bush said he would pay his respects in Tokyo, and added, 
"It is as well a measure of our 
respect for a valued ally and 
fellow democracy that I make 
this trip." 
"At each stop," Bush said, "I aim to strengthen key relationships with ourJriends and partners in the Pacific region." 
Meanwhile, however, the White House released a state­ment by Bush suggesting he was not interested in a U.S.­Japanese free trade agreement modeled after a U.S.-Canadian pact to eliminate all trade fees and import barriers. 
Bush said that Tokyo and Washington agree on the need for mulilateral and bilateral ef­forts to create a more open in­ternational trading system. 
'We will stress the multi­lateral approach," Bush said. "We are always open to new ideas, but in our view the key now is to work hard for the suc­ceess" of international trade talks known as the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. 
His comment was made in a written response to questions submitted by the Kyodo news service. Typically, the responses are written by the National Security Council staff. 

Thursday, February 23, 1989
The Observer 


The Observer I Kim O'Conner trusted "I'm not going to look" approach so that I will not feel a thing. 
;tf()f/!EtTll!t/VEE/c.· 
(TIItrRttfifil~ ) 

Amy Irving 
CrossingDelancey 

feajuring ~ugs ~unn~ and ojhers 
Times: 8 &10:15 pm Engineering Auditoroum $2 
ncounter 


Saini Mary's College Department of Communir.alion & Theatre presents Ihe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre f)roduction of 
by~ Presson Allen from the novel by Muriel Spark directed by Julie Jensen; designed by Unda H. Wigley 
O'laughhn Auditonurn February 22. 23, 24,25 al8:10 pm 13;1--­February 26 at3:10 pm • , II TICkets. '6/SS SludentsandSeruorCittZens '4 Satnt Mar:y~e_ lnlormalw call O'Laugh"n Box Office: 284·4626 N OTII E 0 AM E • I N 0 IAN A 
A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE 
GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTV & STAFF 
An opportunity, in dialogue with others, to deepen your understanding of yourself, your values, your relationship with Christ, your experience of Christian community and service. 
WHEN: September 16-18, 1988 
*November 11-13, 1988 February 3-5, 1989 March 31-April 2, 1989 

CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office (Badin Hall) 239-5242 
SIGN UP 

DEADLINE: February 24-March 3rd 
COST: $15.00 
OFFICE OF 
(Z\MPUSMINISTRY 

-----~-~~--~----------------------------------------------~----­
Viewpoint 
_page 7
Thursday, February 23, 1989 
P.O. Box Q
Observer endorses Breslin, Kinkopf 
The Observer endorses the ticket of Matt Breslin for student body president and Dave Kinkopf for student body vice president. 
Breslin and Kinkopf's considerable experience and leadership in the student government structure set their ticket apart from the other three tickets. Breslin currently serves as junior class president, while Kinkopf served as sophomore class president and freshman advisory council president. 
Experience is not always the most important determinant for positions in any organization. Breslin and Kinkopf, however, seem to be the most likely to continue the current student gov­ernment's dramatic improvements in visibility, efficiency and intellectual concerns. 
The Breslin ticket also shows the most complete knowledge of student government bureaucracy and the pragmaticism to meet student concerns. 
In order to succeed, the leaders of student government will have to persuade the admini~tration to see the student side of key issues on and off-campus. Breslin and Kinkopf's confidence, communication skills and previous experience with Board of Trustees' reports will serve them well in this area. 
Finally, Breslin's idea of forming a legal department within student government is the most innovative in dealing with stu­dent concerns off-campus. Student government must begin work immediately to improve off-campus relations with South Bend residents and police. 
Much of the success of student government rests on the in­volvement of all students. Please vote on Monday and cast your vote for the Breslin-Kinkopf ticket. 
-The Observer 

Basketball craze hits campus 
Dear Editor: 
It has been brought to the attention of the Bookstore Basketball Committee that there are people at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, whether they are stu­dents, faculty or staff, that are not going to play in-this year's tournament. We couldn't think of any reasons why someone would not want to participate in the largest basketball tournament in the world. So, we came up with the fol­lowing top ten reasons why everyone should play in Bookstore Basketball this year. 
10. It's more fun than make-your­own-burrito bar. 
9. Elvis is playing this year. 
8. You can get your team name cen­sored. 
7. Better chance of scoring at any SYR. 
6. No minimum SAT requirement. 
5. No experience necessary. 
4. No drug testing. 
3. You might play against football players-Oh, what a thrill! 
2. We don't censor profanity in the "Hey" cheer. 
1. You can do it in all kinds of wea­ther. 
On a more serious note, we hope that all of you will come out and play Bookstore Basketball this year. Last year's tournament consisted of 666 teams, and we would like to increase this year's pool to over 700 teams. All the games are played after 4 p.m. on weekdays, so there are very few scheduling conflicts. Also, we are en­couraging more faculty to play so that there will be more interaction outside of the classroom. Women are allowed to play in both men's and women's Bookstore Basketball, and all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, fac­ulty, and staff are encouraged to par­ticipate in this, the 18th year of the tournament. 
A few things are different than last year: 
Only one football player will be al­lowed to play on the same team as a present or past NCAA basketball player. 
A team may consist of more than five players: only five of those players may play in any one game, and NO ONE is allowed to play for more than one team in the tournament, or both the player and second team are disqualified. 
There will be increased emphasis on controlling unsportsmanlike conduct of any sort. 
Sign-ups are this Sunday, Feb. 26 in the Great Hall in O'Shaughnessy from 1-4 p.m. In addition, sign-ups are at Saint Mary's from 6-8 p.m. in the game room in Haggar the following Monday, Feb. 27. If you don't have a full team, remember a captain can sign up and fill in the gaps later. 
Faculty and staff may sign up in the Student Activities office in Lafortune between now and Tuesday. 
Hope to see you on the courts. 
Mike Manning 
Bookstore Basketball 
Commissioner 
J. Christopher Murphy 
An Tostal Chairman Feb. 21, 1989 
Loss of shakes hard to take 
Dear Editor: 
Someone once said it's the little things that make life enjoyable. In my 37 years I have found that to be true more often than not. 
Shortly after arriving here I dis­covered one of the mentioned 'little things' about Notre Dame--milkshakes at the Pro Shop in the Rockne Memorial. I have been fortunate enough to sample milkshakes on four continents and a few islands and I can say with all honesty, those dairy delights at the Pro Shop were delicious. 
Imagine my chagrin, shock, surprise, and even dismay when I learned the Pro Shop would no longer offer milkshakes. If this is progress, bring back the days of the horse and buggy. I know of a number of people who, like me, are upset at this latest attack on our standard of living. Please give us a fair shake and bring back the milkshakes to the Pro Shop. 
John Warren, Capt., USAF Assistant Professor Aerospace Studies Feb. 17, 1989 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau Quote of the Day 

WHATIF IT f)()£S, YOU ASK? 
... AN!J THE aU5TfR OF PROBWrlS 
al!iU, E3&FOR& W/3 KNOW
5URROUN!JIN6 JOHN TOW&R.-tuHAT 
IT, W/3 COUW 8& LOO!<JNG
7H8 5&EMIN61.-Y &N!JU% 5TREA/Y1 IF IT 
AT SAM NUNN'S WORST
OF AU86ATIONS-NOW MAI<&S IT [)0&5~ 
NIGHTMAR&!

ALMOST UNTHINKABl& THAT TH& 
SeNifre aJIU VOTe TO \ 'What is the hardest task in the 
~y-._ CONFIRM HIM AS 
world? To think.'
S&CR&TAR.Y OF 
f)/3F8NSE.' 
7 
-Ralph Waldo Emerson 
Editorial Board Or;erations Board 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)239-5303 Ed1tor-m-Chief . Chris Murphy Business Manager John Oxnder 
Managmg Ed1tor . Chris Donnelly Advertising Design Manager . Molly Killtm News Editor Regis Cocc1a Advertismg Manager l1nda Goldschmidt 
The Observer 1s the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Umvers1ty ot News Ed1tor .. Mark Mclaughlin Production Manager. . Bernadene Shilts Notre Dame du lac and Sa~nt Mary's College. N does not necessanly reflect the polic1es of Viewpomt Ed1W1 ..... Dave Bruner Systems Manager Mark Ridgeway the adm1n1strat10n ot e1ther institution. The news is reported as accurately and objeCtively as Sports Ed1tor ... Marty Strasen Controller.. Todd Hard1man poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion of the majonty of the Editonal Board. Accent Editor Beth Healy Graphic Arts Manager Marga Bruns Commentanes. leners and the lns1de Column present the views of the~r authors. Column Saint Mary·s Ed1tor Sandy Cerimele Sj.lace IS ava1lable to all members of the community and the free expression of vary1ng Photo Ed1tor Michael Moran op1n1ons on campus. through letters. is encouraged 
Founded November 3,1966 

-~---~-­
~~-~-----~~-----------­
Accent 
Thursday, February 23, 1989

page 8 
Spotlight on plays 
'Sin1on': focus on n1an and expression through music 
S 
JASON L. WINSLADE David J. Foster, Lou LaGrange, and ning with the introduction of charac­accent writer John McKee). ters in "My Piano and I Are One." The bar's world is disturbed by a Especially noteworthy arethe num­omething new has hit the theatre beautiful stranger in the person of bers "How Can We Win?", a state­scene at Notre Dame. An entirely Emily (Jackie Bayliss). Of course, ment of manhood in the war with student-produced, student-directed, something develops between Emily women, performed by Jeffrey, James, student-written musical, "Simon", is and Simon, but they are unable to Mortimer, and Max in a distinct running at Washington Hall on Feb. express their feelings. Emily falls in barbershop-style, "Mastication," the 22-25. This production displays many love with Simon's music, and Simon men's solution to all problems, "The of the musical talents of Notre Dame can only express himself through his Reporter," Simon's song of job students, from the lively cast to the music. Although on the surface, the description, and the beautifully nos­music of Rob Meffe, the lyrics of show may seem like a typical boy­talgic "Alone in a Crowd, "featuring Brant Beckett, and the story by Mark meets-girl, boy-can't-deal-with-girl wonderful solos by Simon, Emily, and Costanzi. musical, "Simon" is anything but Annie. 
this. A few twists presented in style The cast is delightful to watch, and 
Set in Shirley's Bar and Grill, the and plot distance this original show all of the voices mesh well, especially play centers around the regulars of from the usual musical. the harmonizing of the male voices. the bar, the piano player, Simon Even though "Simon" is not typi­The choreography is sparse but well Stephen C. Wehmeyer performs for (Stephen C. Wehmeyer), the suave cal, it has all the elements of a great, done. Many intelligent statements are 
Stephanie Pile in the student-produced
but sexist bartender, Jeffrey (Paul fun musical. The songs, besides being made regarding music, its expres­
musical, "Simon.'·

Salvatoriello), Annie, the waitress well written and lyrically con­sion, its relationship with love, and 
(Stephanie Pile), the vulgar but love­structed, range from uplifting group its function in life. The characters happy, with their monotonous lot in 
able proprietor, Shirley (Mary Louisa numbers to soulful self-reflection and are well crafted, although some are life. "Simon" is a delightful, 
Meehan), and the wonderful beer and the occasional love song. Throughout not as developed as others. enjoyable musical which hopefully 
food-loving patrons (a Ia Cheers' the show is the running theme of Simon is a man trapped behind his will someday appear on the Broad­
Norm and Cliff), James, Mortimer, different characters singing their piano and his music, while the other way stage and delight many more 
and Max (played respectively by versions of a particular song, begin-characters are stuck, but seemingly audiences. 
'Jean Brodie' depicts the prime of ND/SMC theatre 
of the male actors. Denihan and Costanzi provided color­CHRIS WELSH 
accent writer 
ful supporting performances 
T
he best aspect of theatri­while never overshadowing 
cal performances at any the lead actress. 
college or university is the Of the girls who are taught 
opportunity that young, by Miss Brodie, the roles of 
talented actors have to offer Monica and Sandy (as 
their own interpretations of portrayed by Kristen 
already established charac­
Schumacher and Amy ters. Such is the case in the 
McFadden, respectively) current Notre DameSaint 
were brought to life delight­Mary's Theatre production of 
fully. The cohesiveness of the "The Prime of Miss Jean 
entire cast cannot be empha­Brodie." sized enough. In 1969, Maggie Smith won For all who intend to see a Best Actress Oscar for her future performances, the play 
The Obeervei1Andrew McCloskey
portayal of the title role in moves through the continuum 
Amy McFadden, Megan McCabe, and Mark
the movie of the same name. of time rather briskly with 
Costanzl admire Leisa Helntzleman
To her credit, Leisa little notice given to the audi­Heintzleman makes the most them, and the many cultural recognition for taking on a caricature. ence by the director. Perhaps of her turn at bringing Miss attractions it has to offer. Un­complex and demanding role if the flashback scenes that Brodie to life, as does the rest fortunately, the guidance that around which the action of The energy, enthusiasm, frame the uncut version of of the fine cast. Miss Brodie provides is at the entire play revolves. Her and emotional level of the the script had been retained, 
Jay Presson Allen's script, odds with the best interests of performance demonstrates cast led by Heintzelman the ebb and flow of the entire adapted from the novel by the girls. moments of great insight, and elevated the entire production production could have been Muriel Spark, also concen­her characterization is gener­to such a level that observers preserved. However, none of trates on Miss Brodie's stu­The cast performed as ad­ally sound. There were mo­were drawn into the play, and these criticisms should be dents and their development mirably as professionals by ments, however, when she ultimately viewing became an seen as anything but minor into young women as she en­handling several flubbed lines slipped into a predictable experience shared by both blemishes on the complexion courages them to become and the opening night jitters. rhythm and cadence reducing parties. Special attention of an otherwise beautiful pro­aware of the world around Heintzleman deserves special her performance to more of a should also be given to both duction. 
WVFI Top 10 AlbumsCalvin and Hobbes Bill Watterson 




1. 
XTC "The Mayor of Simpleton" 

2. 
The Replacements "Don't Tell A Soul" 

3. 
Cowboy Junkies "The Trinity Sessions" 

4. 
Elvis Costello "Spike" 

5. 
Throwing Muses "Hunkpapa" 

6. 
The Fall "I Am Kurious Oranj" 

7. 
Violent Femmes "3" 

8. 
American Music Club "California" 

9. 
Love Tractor "Themes From Venus" 

10. 
Guadalcanal Diary "Always Saturday" 


Thursday, February 23, 1989 
Bengals 
continued from page 16 
Biolchini changed that quickly in the next two rounds, as he backed Stahl up with con­tinuous quick jabs and strong overhands. 
Stahl was perilously close to "la-la land" when the final bell rang. 
Three-time champion Mike Noone did not send his op­ponent, sophomore Mick Meyer, home dazed in a fight that resembled a cat-and­

NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  WANTED COUNSELORS-Boys camp in Berkshire Mts.. West. Mass. Good Sal.,room & bd,travel allowance. beautilul modem facilijy.must love children & be able to  ROUND TRIP VOUCHER ANYWHERE IN THE COUNTRY. BEST OFFER. CALL JEAN: 284-5421 Gemeinhardt Flute M2; Emerson Linear Tracking Auto Turntable CDT1 00; Joe 2062  Ladies, the Carroll dance is Friday Make sure a Vermin asks you! US SPRINT I Network 2000 needs Inde­pendent Marketing Reps. Find out about our remarkable Residual Income Oppor­tunity! 234-5723  PLAY VOLLEYBALL ON SOUTH QUAD THIS SATURDAY. SIGN UP YOUR 6 PERSON TEAM OR INDIVID­UALLY OUTSIDE THE SUB OFFICE, 2nd FLOOR LAFORTUNE. Winterfest ATTENTION UCAM MEMBERS! Yea,  SOPHOMORES!SOPHOMORES! Come see members of your class look stupid as they answer personal questions about their sex life in an anempl to get matched up on the DAllNG GAME Frl Feb 24 at 6:30 at Senior Bar Proceeds to Iranian uaasaln fund J1cl Proceed• to run-ay ahelter.  
Typln!J'Wordprocesalng 237-1949 TYPING PICKUP & DELIVERY 2n-7406  teach one of the following: Tennis, W.S.I.,Sailing Waterski.Basebaii.Basketbaii,Soccer LaCrosse,Wood.A&C,Rocketry. Photog­raphy.Archery,Pioneering, Ropes,Piano,Drama.Call or write: Camp Winadu,5 Glen La.,Mamaroneck, NY 10543. (914)381-5983  TICKETS 4 Louisville GA's for sale.272-6306 I need 1 or 2 LOUISVILLE GA"s Call Todd x38n  HELP ME PLEASEIIII need a ride to the Buffak>Rochester NY area lor Spring Break. I can leave anytime and will help with driving and$$$ call BRETT at x2034. FEEL THE BLUES  we are finally going to have a meeting and a short movie-SO GET EX· CITED! The meettng will be at 8pm In the Lewis Hall party room on Monday, Feb. 27. All membere pleaae come and bring guests, friends, strangers, anyone, just comellllltflllllllllt Would you like to go on a dream  All are welcome to attend the St. Edward's Hall Forum featuring Fr. Oliver Wllllema, the Asaoclate Provost, who will apeak on "Where I Stand on lnveatmenta In South Africa." The forum will be held at Saint Edward's Hall tonight at 7:00 p.m.  
EXPERT  TYPING  SERVICE.  CALL  NO Law achool students to be reps  BILLY 'STIX' NICKS & THE  date to Chicago?  
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. NEED MONEY? Sell your textbooks lor CASH!! Hardbound & paperbacks! Cash or Credit available! PANDORA'S BOOK BOB Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave.(walking distance from campus) ph.  for Kaplan-SMH Bar Review couraea. Earn free bar review course plus $$'a. Call 272-4135. Ask for Sue. COUNSELORS-Girls camp in Maine. Good sal,room & bd.,lravel allowance. beautiful modern facility.must love  LOUISVILLE TICKETS I have 5 GA"s! Call Steve at 2354. LOUISVILLE student ticket--l've got rt, I know you want it. Ron x4642.  N'a and OUTS FRI & SAT 10:00 TO THE GIRL WHO CALLED INQUIR­ING ABOUT MY PLANS ON SAT.  That's just one of the great prizes you could win at the ALL CAMPUS SYR--Feb. 24 BE THERE!!I  KING DAN: YOU HAVE OUR HIGHEST APPROVAL TO SUCCEED TO THE RANK OF CAMPUS MONARCHIIII BEST REGARDS, THE UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTA· TIVES AND CONGRESS.  
233-2342 SAVE TIME! "How To Report On a Book You Haven't Actually Read." Send $10: Box 15071 Columbus, OH 43215 TONIGHT! All are walcome to attend the St. Edward's Hall Forum featuring Fr. Oliver Williams, the Aaaoclate Provost, who will be apeaklng on "Where I Stand on Investments In South Africa." The forum will be held tonight at 7:00 P.M. at St. Edward's Hall. I LOST/FOUND I  children and be able to teach one of the following:Tennis, W.S.T.,Sailing Waterski,Softbaii,Basketball, Soc­cer,LaCrosse.A&C,Photography, Horse­back,Dance.Piano,Drama,Ropes Camp Craft.Gymnastics.Call or write:Camp Vega. Box 1n1 Duxbury, Mass. 02332 (617)934-6536 $$$ I NEED 5 LOUISVILLE TICKETS $$$283-2814 DAY /271-8639 NIGHT HELP! Ride needed to and from Boston area lor spring break. Call Katie X1335. SUMMER JOBSI! Two of Mlnnneaota" lineal summer youth campa seek col· lege studenta to work as counselors and Instructors In aalllng and English and Weatam riding. Employment from June 8 thru August 13. For an appli­cation call 1-800-451·5270 ext. 410  PERSONALS LAW SCHOOL: Start your Bar Review early. Keplen-SMH revle-fo many atetes available here In South Bend. Tranater back home for summer. Dis­counts for Kaplan LSAT alumni. Reaerve before March 2 Call 272-4135. Aak for Sue. SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-800-343-8373 OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 mo. Summer,Yr.round.AII Countrles,AII  NIGHT: I'm sorry, the phone misconnec­tion was an accident. PLEASE call back. Portable state-of-the-art sound system may be reserved from the Student Activ­ities Office. The system has 24 channel Soundcraft mixing console. community speakers, and full range of microphones. Only charge is for operating technicians Must be officially recognized organization to reserve system and it must be reserved 10 days in advance of event. COMING SOON ... THE CHARITY BALL!! CHARITY BALL MEETING!! THURSDAY, FEB. 23 7:00p.m. SORIN ROOM, LAFORTUNE  PLEASE. PLEASE. PLEASEIIIII desperately need a ride to Minnesota for Easter Break. I can leave any time after 2:30 Thursday. and I must be back by 1 :00 Tuesday. Kate X1259 HELP! I NEED A RIDE TO OHIO U. OR COLUMBUS, OHIO FEB. 24-26. $ $ $ CALL DEVON 284-5487. DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO DC AREA FOR BREAK WAS CALL BRIDGET 284-5112 RIDE NEEDED! To ROCHESTER. Buf­falo. Syracuse March 2, or to Pittsburgh March 2 or 3. Pay $$. Call Mary 284-5128 or 5117. ok ... HELLO,ag  ATTENTION ALL THOSE WHO ARE POLITICALLY CONCERNED .......... THE EARLY POLLS ARE IN, AND KING DAN IS LEADING BY NEARLY 3 TO 111 LONG LIVE THE KING!II CHRIS FILLIO Pres., Scholai1Athlele As­soc. Suggestion: Swrtch to Irish Coffee when studying late night. Your Irish Prin­cesses love and miss you bunches. We hope you have a great spring break. Love, kisses and small appliances. Hope. Chastity and Bertha P.S. It's never too late for valentines day cards. flowers, candy.etc. After the Bengals, go 15 rounds w!ZETO AND THE HEAT -QNS at McCormicks Fri nile. Fab 24th at IOPM.  _....  
LOST: SOMEONE TOOK MY RED CW  RIDE NEEDED EAST ON 1-80 TOWARD  BE THERE!!  ZETOIII  
SKI JACKET FROM THE CCE SATUR­ NYC,  PREFERABLY  TO  AREA  OF  fields. Free Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52·  £t:TOIII  
DAY NIGHT. PLEASE RETURN IT SINCE IrS MY ONLY JACKET AND I CAN'T AFFORD A NEW ONE I'LL AS­SUME IT WAS AN HONEST MISTAKE. I'LL EVEN GIVE A REWARD FOR THE JACKET OR INFORMATION WHERE IT lSI PLEASE CALL SEAN-4784. LOST-BLACK CUMMERBUND AT TAl­MILITARY FORMAL!! call BRET x1389 Lost: black Casio digital watch (ij was in a tan glasses case); please call Mark at xt409. No questions asked. Reward. FOUND: digrtal watch outside of bus stop by circle, on Sun of JPW Call Tim at x1712 to identify I LOST MY FINANCE 231 BOOK-I left  WILKES-BARRE PA OR ELSE ANYONE HEADING TOWARDS PHILADELPHIA OR SYRACUS&BINGHAMTON NY AREA PLEASE CALL NEIL AT X4051 HELP I need a ride to and from Atlanta or Birmingham for break will share gas Chris# 1425 ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT FISHERIES. Earn $600\Wieek in can­nery. $8,000-12,000e for two months on fishing vessel. Over 8,000 openings. No experience necessary. MALE OR FEMALE For 52-page employment book­let. send $6.95 to M&L Research, Box 84008, Seattle. WA 98124. 30 day. un· condrtional. 100% money back guarantee RIDE NEEDED:Going to Texas 4 break? Have rm 4 2 more? Will help wogas & driving. Can leave Fri 3:00, need be back Mon. Call Frank x2101.  IN04, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. hlag SUMMER JOBS ALL LANDWATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-600-343-8373 ADOPTION Loving,secure married couple unable to conceive seek to adopt. Can pay le­gal.medical exp. Pis call collect Chris & Susan. 7031.176-9751 Completely con­fidential. ADOPTION-Caring, financially secure couple of Irish and Swedish ancestry wish to love, cherish, and raise your new­bam child. Legal and conlidential. Please call Linda and Craig COLLECT: 212-8n­ FREDDY JONES THURS. AT BRIDGET'S ... LOST ••• a Dark Olive Leather jacket Senior Bar last Thurs. nile .. If lound, please bring to Stepan Center Lost & Found. (No Questions Asked). Thanks. FOR A TASTE OF THE THURSDAY NIGHTUFE... BRIDGET'S presents CORVAWS CALLING This Thursday from 6 to 10 p.m. Come hear this West Coast sensation II  PRANCER:I want to Shake You Down. Please come back and buy me the watch! If you thought Carlos was exerting ...Be careful of "things" that escape in aerobics! With all my love forever, Lamont To????? : I'm sorry this is so latel I truly appreciated your Valentine! So, who are you? Don't be shy! Sincerely. Kathleen MG·just nine more days till our tropical vacation ..... don't worry about the single beds they work just as weii. ..MG HEY PAULl YEAH, YOU BIGNOSE!I YOU WERE FANTASTIC IN SIMONII! THANKS FOR A GREAT TIME. KSHHHHH!, Pete  and the HEAT-ONS!I Helpl I need a ride to Jackson,Mich this weekend to get my things for spring break. Anyone going to Jack-ison, Ann Arbor or Detroit on Fri. call me. will pay $$. Abby 4236 FRIDAY at CLUB 23 FRIDAY at CLUB 23 SEAN & THE SUN KINGS SATURDAY at SENOR KELLY'S SATURDAY at SENOR KELLY'S SEAN & THE SUN KINGS ST. JUDE: PRAY FOR DAN To Faris, This Panda Bear is from CA, and is a CPA whose Heather is from MI. and speaks French in more than one way, who by the way is my fiancee. P.S. My Heather would never date a guy named Faris.  
in HURLEY om Wed. 2115 Pandora's will not buy ij so please return rt. BILL 1436 A little boy Ia devastated. We loat our small white dog with Ohio taga. With­ NEED A RIDE TO DENVER? Leaving on March 3, back March 12. Going to Steamboat. Colo.--wlll drop along route d you'll help wijh gas. tolls. Call Mark Mclaughlin at 268-3507. need ride to D.C. area for break will pay.  3574 CORNELL GOING THAT WAY 314? RETURNING 3112? NEED A RIDER? X2966 Tired of DJ's? Tired of three-chord rock?  RIDE needed to York PA or general area (SE or SCentral PA, Ba~.• etc) Will share exp. Kelly x4416 HEY STUDS!  After months and months of preparation, we would like to introduce an event that needs no introduction. We give you  OH HI! Wanna hear something HAIR BALL? It's Eric Christiansen's 19th Birthdayll  
out a special diet, she'll become very Ill. Sizeable reward. Please call 234­1814.  Call x1919  Tired of Dining Hall food? After Hours Sat. Feb. 25 9:30pm at The Underground  comming soon the SPANDEX GODDESS  The Cempus-Wide SYR Friday, Feb. 24, 9:00pm  Best of luck wijh everything-­especially Austria next year!  
WANTED TO BUY: FINITE MATH TEXT If you have a Math 104 book to sell, call Dan at 3436. Soon.  I need a ride to Boston lor Spring Break. Will help pay gas! Call Susan X4434  Stretch; does Fr. Vi know???????  To the cute dessert girl in A-line The way you scooped pudding MADE ME SWEAT I'll sweat even more If you'll go  Have fun but don't get too TWEEKEDII ..J.M,J  
TODAY IS DAN-0 'THE ORIENT EX­ to the  
LOST 2 KEYS on a pink keychain at Morrissey SYR. If found please call X2853. LOST: Gold Chain of much sentimental value somewhere between Siegfried and O"Shag. $Reward$ x-4802 LOST NAVY BLUE BACKPACK IN  Need ride to Harrisburg, PA or close by on 3G or 314, # 3348 Rob The recent influx ol parents for JPW decreased our numbers by 33%. We need 3 roommates (preferably very cool) to live with us in the old Sigma Pi house  ST. JUDE: PRAY FOR US. Ride needed to Baii-OC area over Easter Break Prefer leaving earl)llteturning late Call Rob x1159 STONE PUPPIES Acuostic Duo Saturday Night SENOR KELLY'S  PRESS" YU'S 20th BIRTHDAYIII Call him at x1002 to wish him a happy one. PLEASE. I desperately need a ride to Central PA for Break. Will share toll and gas$$$. call Guy at x3883. LAMBDA TAU PI Commando Unij--Mis­sion lncompletel But, Stanford  Cempua-Wide SYR with me on Friday It will only coat you $3 BILLY WILLY, Happy 21 st.B-Day! From:Julie,Betsy,Kristin.Lynne, Christy,Carrie·Ann,Karen,Gunter, and your other roommates.  TROUBLE GETTING HIRED? GET THE INTERVIEWING EDGE FEBRUARY 25 FROM 1 :30-3:30 IN THE LIBRARY AUDITORIUM hear how to get and muter those Interviews from a skilled trainer NEED RIDE BACK EAST ON SAT MAR. 4 AFTER B·BALL GAME. ROCHESTER  
SOUTH DINING HALL. TUE CALL JOHN AT 2n-3615  LUNCH  on Marion for the 89-90 school year. call Dav&Fitz 1608  RIDE  NEEDED  TO  FLORIDA  FOR  Studs ... You impressII  don't  have  to  dress  to  NOTRE  DAME  CHORALE  and  OR­ NY PREFFERABLE. BUT EVEN CLEVELAND WOULD DUE  TO  
SPRING  BREAK.  CALL KAREN  284­ CHESTRA  
L..--FO_R_RE_NT_____JI FOUR FLAGS FARM BED 'N BREAK­ ································································I FOR SALE '------------...1  5439. HELP HELP! I NEED A RIDE TO BOS­TON FOR SPRING BREAK!! PLEASE CALL SANDY 284-5493.  SPROUT HEH KC  POWERIll POWERIll MY BELOVED  SPROUT SWEENEY  present Durufte"s Requiem Sunday, Feb. 26 Sacred Heart Church 8:00PM Free Admission  Kim-How 'bout the! sense of direction ... Try this: North. South East, Wesll It will lake you where you want to go! K&M MATT BRESLIN AND DAVE KINKOPFII BEST OF LUCK TO YOU  
FAST JUST 20 MINS. FROM ND.IDEAL FOR ALL NO ACTIVmES. RESERVE  Can you buy Jeeps, Cars. 4X4's seized in drug raids for under $100.00? Call for  Suzanne Lutz and Kathleen Flynn Re­member when wa used to talk about  SISTE Thanks for a swall JPW and for all your patience. Golla go now, four  GINA GRANDOLFO  GUYS!! You'll do a great jobll  
NOW FOR ALL UPCOMING EVENTS. 616-471-5711. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 219­ !acts today. 802-837-3401. Ext. 681 79 MIDGET EXC. COND. LOW MILAGE 294-5699  Inane Coamo. articles, drink bed cof­fee, and amoke??? What happened to us? I mlsa the Oak Room dlacusalonslll  houra Ia juat about up and you know h-I love to change. -your pal Molly  I Love to look at you Your emerald eyes intrigue me I long for you But I am afraid Going south on 31 ? I need a ride to In­ Matt Breslin(a.k.a. Tom Cruise) and his trusty side-kick. Dave Kinkopfl Good luck to you on Monday  
291-7153.  Where am I going to go to get lmpor·  dianapolis on 2124 or 2125. Call Karen  SPRING  BREAK  BUS TO  MN  CALL  
small stereo for sale call Jay x4662  tant  Info.  concerning  boya  and  Dear Ms. X­ x1272  DIANE X2985 OR KAROL 612-452-4679  
HOUSES FOR STUDENTS NEAR N.D.  bras??? I'm going to have to alert  Meet me at the Volleyball courts Sat. on  
683-8889-2n-3097.  SPRING BREAK IN COLORADOII!!  tuning Into Sally Jeaae Raphael for  south quad. I'll be wearing a red-striped  I NEED A RIDE TO PHILADELPHIA OR  BETTY  CROCKER  Alias  SUSAN  
Roundtrip  from  Ch1cago  to  Denver.  advice HELP  Tshirt.  NEW YORK FOR SPRING BREAK-WILL  SCHWERIN: HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! LOVE  
FURNISHED  ROOMS  &  2  BEDRM  Leave 314. Return 3112. Call 2533. Price  C.N.D.  -the guy at the salad bar  SHARE EXPENSES-FLEXIBLE DATES.  
HOME NEAR CAMPU$.272-6306  negotiable.  CALL ROSI AT X3567.  VA, TRACY AND BONNIE.  





r--------------------------------~~----~------­
page 10 The Observer Thursday, February 23, 1989 
................................................................. 

ATTENTION: Grad Students, 
I 
Observer classifieds will be accepted from
Happy ~lrthday Today is Laura S.'s birthday. Call her up 
Professors,9am-3pm M-F at the Observer offices, 314

and wish her a happy one. By the way Laura,we do expect to see you danc1ng 
EmployeesLaFortune. 

on pool tables tomght.
11 
MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
Tennis 
Less than 1 0 minutes from campus
The fifiZZ Com etition
continued from page 16 
"Katie played a great singles 
Musical Acts interested in
match," Gelfman said, "but her opponent, Jane Williams, 
competing, pick up application at 
came on strong in the second and third sets. Katie adjusted, 
secretary's desk on 2nd floor 
but Williams made few errors and Katie lost 7-4 in third set 
LaFortune. 
tiebreaker. I really credit 
Limited to first 1 5 acts. 
Katie with regrouping and coming back to play excellent doubles." 
8:30 -11 :30 p.m. Sat. March 18
Gelfman was confident going into the match despite two 
at STEPAN CENTER 
humbling losses last month to Minnesota and Marquette. 
CASH PRIZES 
"We'd been playing well in practice," said Gelfman of the 1-2 Irish. "We learned our les­sons when we lost. Now our 

FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN younger team members know how hard we need to play and 
FRESHMEN CHICAGO Tl{IP
how important each match is. That really helped us today." 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1989
Although Illinios State is not one of the strongest teams Notre Dame will face, Gelfman believes the victory will boost 
MUSEUM OF SCIENCE AND INDUSTRY, ART 
the Irish confidence . 
INSTITUTE, WATER TOWER PLACE, LOOP, SEARS
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS 
TOWER

ounselors: 21 +, coed, leepaway camp, Mass. 
BREAKFAST, LUNCH, DINNER IN A RESTAURANT 
Berksi1ires. WSI, arts s.~ rafts, tennis, all land and 
TICKETS MAY BE PURCH·ASED AT THE FRESHMAN 
ater sports, drama, ymnastics, piano/play for 
YEAR OF STUDIES OFFICE 
hows, judo, dance, hotography, computers, 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, STARTING AT 1:30
nature, w i·lderness. model 
rocketry, guitar, yearbook, 
P.M. UNTIL FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, ENDING AT
oodworking, RN, typist, 
rite: Camp Emerson, 5 
NOON $15.00 ALL INCLUDED
Brassie Rd, Eastcnester, NY 1 0707 or call 914/773-9406 
FRESHMEN FRESHMEN FRESHMEN 


ND track hosts premier field at Meyo's Alex Wilson Invite 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO Sports Writer 
Saturday will mark the last home meet of the season for the Irish as Notre Dame plays host to the Alex Wilson Invitational at the Meyo Track in the Loftus Sports Center. 
For some of those competing, it is a meet with "national im­plications." 
This meet will be the last chance for some atheletes to qualify for the NCAA Indoor Track Championships, sched­uled for March 10-11. 
Included in this group are junior Mike Rogan, freshman Brian Peppard, sophomore Mark Lavery and senior David Warth, who comprise the two­mile relay squad. 
When this powerful middle distance relay team steps onto the Meyo Track, it will be its last chance to qualify for the Indoor NCAA Championships, the feat the team has been working for all season. 
"Basically this is it," said Rogan. "This is what we've been pointing at all season long." 
Head Coach Joe Piane pur­posefully invited some of the best two-mile relay teams in the nation to attend, and he got just that. 
Georgetown, Villanova, Penn State, and Loyola (Ill.) have all indicated that they will be attending the meet, and all these schools have excellent two-mile relay squads. All of these teams have the ability to qualify for the NCAA's, Notre Dame included. 
"This race has the potential to have a team come in fifth place and still qualify for the 
Mike Rogan
' 

NCAA's," said Piane. "This is the premier event. I don't think there's any event as deep." 
Another note regarding this meet is that senior All­American Dan Garrett will be running his first meet of the season in the 3,000 meters. Gar­rett lhad been bothered with tendonitis throughout the season. 
"We're going to try to get Danny to qmilify for the IC4A's," said Piane. "In fact, I'm putting (senior co-captain Ron) Markezich in there for the first mile just to make sure Garrett stays on his tail.'' 
"Basically this meet is going to give us the opportunity to get some qualifiers for the national championships and IC4A's," said Piane. "For some kids it will be a tuning up meet.'' 
This relay event is not the only one with national compe­tition on the line. Freshman Raghib Ismail, for example, is just .03 seconds away from qualifying for the NCAA's in the 55-meter dash. 
Ismail, however, will have another chance at qualifying next week when he runs the same event at the IC4A Cham­pionships (Intercollegiate As­sociation of Amateur Atheletes of America) in Princeton, NJ, so he is not feeling any addi­tional pressure. 
"It's hard for me to say how I'm going to do," said Ismail. "I'm just going to do my best. If I make it, that's great, but if I don't, you know, there'll be other times." 
•
Plll ~tJtiLii~·~..~•liiliiNill 
1... 
L_, 

The Notre Dame men's track team will host the Alex Wilson Invita­tional at Meyo Track In the Loftus Sports Center today. The meet will offer some athletes their last chance to qualify for the NCAA Championships. 
Thursday, February 23, 1989 The Observer page 11 
Trip east next for women's swim team 
By MARY GARINO Sports Writer 
Coming off a decisive victory at the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championships, the women's swim team heads for West Virginia to compete in their first Eastern Intercol­legiate Championships. 
This is the second year that the meet has existed for wo­men. It was created to parallel the men's meet as a way of recognizing the growing impor­tance of women's swimming. The meet is also designed as a season-ending preview of the NCAAs. 
"The meet creates a cham­pionship that encourages elite swimmers to qualify for the NCAAs," said Irish head coach Tim Welsh. "It's a full team 
championship  also,  which  
means  we  can bring  a  full  
squad."  

Because this is Notre Dame's first year in attendance, Coach Welsh does not have any goals as far as the scoreboard is con­cerned. The team will mainly directed," Welsh said. "We want to finish the the season with everybody swimming their best, and also reset as many university records and individual records as possi­ble." 
be  concerned  with  internal  
goals.  
"Our  goals  are  inner­ 

The Irish will be facing some powerful teams, including three teams that already faced Notre Dame earlier in the year, St. Bonaventure, Cleveland State and Villanova. Among the rest of the ten teams will be West Virginia, the host school, who would love to beat Notre Dame and avenge the Mountaineers Fiesta Bowl loss to the Irish. 
Coach Welsh was quick to point out that even thought the Irish are not planning any strategy to beat these teams, the meet will be very intense. 
"These championship meets outweigh the dual meet season," he said. "Just because we don't have any external 

The Observer I Suzanne Poch  
The Notre Dame women's swim team, fresh off a  the  team's  first-ever  Eastern  Intercollegiate  
victory in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference  Championship meet.  

Championships, will be In West VIrginia today for 
goals doesn't mean it's not going to be intense." 
The training in the earlier part of the season was targeted at the the three championship meets at the end of the year, the MCCs, the Eastern Inter­collegiates and the NCAAs. The Irish also have the added ad­vantage of confidence from their success last week. 
The Irish have another rea­son for wanting to do well be­sides resetting records. The better the team does, the better it looks for perspective stu­dents. One way recruits evalu­ate the program is by the per-
Boggs controversy continues 
Former lover tells her side in upcoming magazine story 
flattering views of other players. 
Manager Joe Morgan dis­cussed the article briefly in a closed clubhouse meeting before practice at spring train­ing camp. 
The Penthouse issue contain­ing the article will be on sale next week. Advance copies were made available to several news organizations, including The Associated Press. 
In the article, Adams says Boggs made a racist remark about teammate Jim Rice, was extremely jealous of New York Yankees first baseman Don Mattingly, and felt Red Sox pitcher Roger Clemens acted like "Mr. Perfect." 
formance in championship meets. "We define ourselves for the rest of the world," Welsh noted. 
The women's Eastern Inter­collegiates will take place Thursday, Friday and Satur­day. The men's meet will be during the first week in March. 
According to Adams, Boggs said Rice "thinks he's white." 
Asked to comment on the story, Rice said, "I have not read it and I am not going to read it " 
Adams, who is receiving at least $100,000 for the story, also graphically describes the sex lives of Boggs and several teammates she does not iden­tify.
Adams also detailed a num­ber of Boggs' superstitions. She claimed she took 64 road trips with Boggs, purchased his clothes and avoided sex with him during the day because "Wade believes that sex weakens your legs, and he needs strong legs to play third base." 
IThe Musical ®~[M](Q)[N] 1n Washington Hall is Congratulations to the directors and entire cast and crew BRAVO  Associated Press WINTER HAVEN, Fla.--The Boston Red Sox took in stride Wednesday their move from the sports pages to Penthouse and steamy revelations by Wade Boggs' former mistress about the sex lives of several players. In the first of two Penthouse magazine articles, Margo Adams describes her four-year affair with Boggs and talks about the third baseman's un- 
Are you interested in helping to manage and account for $400,000? If you are a SOPHOMORE BUSINESS MAJOR who enjoys working with money and people, STUDENT GOVERNMENT needs you as the Student Body Assistant Treasurer. -Student Body Assistant Treasurer aids the Student Body Treasurer in disbursing funds for: Student Government Student Union Board Halls Clubs and Organizations This is in preparation for your becoming THE STUDENT BODY TREASURER the following year. -Applications are available in the Treasurer's office 2nd floor LaFortune between 12-4:00 pm. Due on Thursday, March 2 by 4:00 pm. -Any questions, contact Guy Weismantel at 239-7417.  


THURSDAY 
FREE 
All Soft Drinks are Free with a purchase of a sub 
FREE DELIVERY 
271-0SUB 
Thursday, February 23, 1989
ND baseball travels south for a sunny season opener 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Assistant Sports Editor 
An 18-game season-opening road trip for the Notre Dame baseball team, which will in­clude stops in Florida and North Carolina, begins today with a tour of Texas. 
The Irish begins its season today in San Antonio with a 4 
p.m. game against Trinity. Notre Dame then heads to Aus­tin to face third-ranked Texas Friday at 3 p.m., and returns to San Antonio for a matchup with St. Mary's Saturday night at 7:30. 
Notre Dame is just fortunate to see an outdoor baseball field at this point. The Irish had been conducting their pre-season practices at the indoor Loftus Center. 
"Loftus is an incredible facility, but it's still difficult to simulate a game situation in­side," said second-year Irish coach Pat Murphy. "We need to get outside and play some games." 
Trinity is a young team com­ing off a disappointing 5-31 campaign last year. The NAIA school dropped its first four games this year with losses to state rivals Texas Lutheran, St. Mary's and Howard Payne. 
LeftfieldeDJ>itcher Tommy Anderson leads Trinity in hit­ting with a .308 average. Centerfielder;pitcher Robert Burns, the only senior on the team, is batting .289 with 12 runs batted in and 56 total bases. 
''Trinity was noted for its baseball 10 years ago," said Murphy. "They're rebuilding their program now. 
"Coming in (to Texas) 9:30 at night and playing the next day will be tough, especially since we haven't been on the field yet." 
Texas will provide Notre Dame with an extremely diffi­cullt early-season challenge. The Longhorns sport an 8-3 record that includes a three­game sweep of UCLA. 
In other games this season, Texas has won two of three games from Arizona State, swept a doubleheader from St. Mary's and split doubleheaders with Texas Lu­theran and Texas-Arlington. 
"I can't spend too much time thinking about the opposition, but I hear they're something special," said Murphy. "You're talking about the ul­timate road game, being in Austin. There will be about 9,875 Texas fans there and 125 Notre Dame fans." 
Despite the Longhorns' high his team's recent play. A loss to Texas-Arlington Tuesday particularly upset him. 
"It was a curious game in that we had 16 baserunners and failed to score a run," said the veteran Longhorn coach. "That's been our plight; we haven't hit well with men on base." 
Righthanded pitcher Jeff Seale figures to start for Texas Saturday in his collegiate debut. The freshman turned down an offer from the New York Mets, who drafted him in the second round last spring, to attend Texas. 
"He's an outstanding prospect," said Gustafson. "He's not a polished player at this time, but he has pretty good stuff." 
Seale missed the first several games of the season after being suspended for disciplinary reasons. 
After playing Notre Dame, Texas hosts second-ranked Miami in a three-game series from Saturday to Monday. The Sunday and Monday games will be televised nationally by ESPN. 
St. Mary's, another NAIA program, currently holds a 3-6 record in a season that has in­cluded six games against 

The Observer !Greg Kohs 
Senior Mike Passllla and the Notre Dame baseball team will open their season today under sunny skies. The squad has flown south for road stint against three teams, including third-ranked Texas. 
Southwest Conference teams. have a long way to go, but I Besides the doubleheader loss think we made progress with a to Texas, St. Mary's has lost a win over a good team like doubleheader to Houston and Baylor." split a doubleheader with Baylor. St. Mary's posted a 36-15 
"I haven't been really record last year that included pleased with our hitting," said two wins over Notre Dame. The St. Mary's coach Charlie Migl. Irish split two games with St. "Our pitching's been good. We Mary's during the 1987 season. 
ranking, TexascoachCliffGus-,;;:::==============================="
tafson is not too impressed with 
TROUBLE liEmNii HIRED? 
liET THE INTERVIEWING EDGE 
Success in interviewing is not luck -it is a skill YOU can master. 
Increase your chance of being hired on the FIRST inteNiew. 
Master proven inteNiewing techniques that will answer those
HEY! MARCH 1st is "hard to answer" questions. Presented by a skilled trainer who has taught the people who may be interviewing you!!
the last day to 
Fee: $25.00 MAY BE THE BEST MONEY YOU WILL EVER SPEND!!!
register for 
Brin 25 to: 

Need some excitement in your life? 
COMEDY -40l.'£ 
Fl1"1sJfVG 
''€.~1\S\~G cotttEO~ ~o~ 
THEODORE'S is looking for ENTHUSIASTIC 
oJs 

students to fill positions for the 1989-90 school year! General Manager Programming Manager Operations Manager Promotions Manager Accounts Manager AND • • • • • • • • • • • • 14 Assistant Managers 
Applications and job descriptions available in 315 La Fortune (Student Activities Office) Deadline March 3rd Have fun while gaining Practical Work Experience!! 

Thursday, February 23, 1989 The Observer page 13 
IH hockey plavoffs aporoach 
Off Campus beats Grace, ~tanford earns p1ayoff berth 
By KEN TYSIAC Sports Writer 
The final games of the Inter­hall Hockey regular season provided an interesting glimpse of what the playoffs might be like. In the Blue Divi­sion, top guns Alumni and Stan­ford skated to a 2-2 tie which clinched playoff berths for both teams. 
Meanwhile a 5-3 Off Campus victory over Grace in the battle for first place in the Gold Divi­sion assured the Crime of a playoff spot. Assuming Dillon beats Flanner later this week, Grace will be forced to battle the Big Red for the fourth and final playoff spot early next week. 
Off Campus took an early 2-1 lead in their game against Grace on a pair of goals by Tom Keating. However, Grace player/coach Erik Galis managed to tie it before halftime with his second goal of the night on a slapshot from just outside the blue line. 
Joe Levan scored on a two­on-one break early in the second half to give Grace a 3-2 lead, but John Kirk and Craig Carufel countered to give Off Campus the lead for good with goals 45 seconds apart. O.C. goalie John Krutzer then slammed the door on Grace, and Keating rounded out the scoring by completing his hat trick with an empty net goal with one second left. 
O.C. coach Chris O'Grady is confident about his team's chances in the playoffs. 
"We have the best players in the league. If we just play our game and get some breaks we should be tough to beat in the playoffs." 
"We didn't play well tonight," said Galis. "We got hurt by two flukey goals at the end. We'll have to just take it one game at a time now, but it's tough for us to play with less than two lines." 
The other big story was Stan­ford's first Interhall Hockey playoff berth ever. Twice the Studs rallied from one goal deficits against Alumni, and soon after Bob Kuskie tied it at two goals apiece with 4 minutes left, Stanford went on the power play. 
Alumni managed to hold Stanford scoreless when they had the man advantage, however, and goalie Hardie Tankersley had to make a big glove save in a goalmouth scramble to preserve the tie . 
Report: Rose replacing Sutton at Kentucky 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio-­Kentucky coach Eddie Sut­ton will leave the Wildcats "in 10 days to two weeks" and will be replaced by former Purdue head coach Lee Rose, according to a source quoted in a published report. 
The Columbus Dispatch, in its Thursday editions, quoted a source close to the Kentucky program as saying "Sutton is going to be told he's gone in 10 days to two weeks. The new coach is picked and it's Rose. He's (C.M.) Newton's choice for the job." 
The Dispatch said its source had spoken on the condition of anonymity. 
Newton will become ath­letic director at Kentucky on April 1, replacing Cliff Hagan, who resigned last year. Newton refused to dis­cuss the Kentucky coaching situation with The Dispatch. 
"I'm not AD there until April1," Newton said. 
Rose, contacted by The Dispatch before Wednes­day's New Jersey Nets­Cleveland Cavaliers NBA game, was asked if he would be a candidate if the Ken­tucky job opened. Rose has been an assistant coach with the Nets since last summer. 
"Until there is a position open, no one is a candidate because the job is still in the hands of the man who has it," Rose said. "My mother lives in Lexington and I have a lot of ties there. And that's no secret." 


is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Business Copy Editor 
For further information, please contact Matt Gallagher at 239-5303 or 283-1957. 

Saturday, February 25 
10:30-12 midnight Free Skate Rental and refreshments 
to play only to lose, 73-69. 
The Flyers are led by MCC Player-of -the-Year candidatt
Dayton 
continued from page 16 
Tobette Pleasant. She games. They took Loyola to the averages 16.5 points per game wire, leading with two minutes and 10.2 rebounds. Pam Rosey 
AIR TRAVEL IMMEDIATE RESERVATIONS TICKETS DELIVERED 

255-7272

CALL US NOW FOR BEST PRICES 
------,,-.,international••••••.•• 
~ toursfltnavel 
1111 
J.A.C.C. 
is the only other Flyer averag · ing in double figures at 10.9 points. 
Sophomore Karen Robinson continues to be the spark for the Irish. She scored 22 in the loss to Loyola and 12 against the Vols. 
The two losses severely damaged any hopes of a tourn­ament invitation. The Irish need a very strong finish for the NIT selection committee to consider them in the eight­team field. 
"I can't imagine the NIT wanting us after those losses," 
I page 14 The Observer Thursday, February 23, 1989 l 
SPORTS BRIEFS Publisher refuses to release 
Women's Bookstore Basketball registration and signups are Wednesday, March 14, in Room 002 in the 
book incriminating NC State 
basement of LaFortune from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. There is a $5 registration fee. Referees and scorekeepers are needed and will be paid $5 per game. Any questions should be directed to Nancy at x3487 or Julie at x2667. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball XVIII signups are scheduled for Sunday from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. at the Great Hall in O'Shaughnessy. Saint Mary's signups are Monday from 6 
p.m. to 8 p.m. at the Game Room in Haggar. Each team must pay a $5 registration fee, and all Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students, faculty and staff are eligible. People with a questionable team name should bring an­other with them. -The Observer 
The NO crew team has a mandatory meeting for both varsity and novice members tonight at 7: 30 in Room 356 of Cushing Hall. Everyone should bring their check­books. -The Observer 
TheN 0 Men's Volleyball hosts Northern Conference foe Aquinas College tonight at 7 in the Joyce ACC Pit. Admission is free. -The Ob~erver 
The NO Rugby Club will hold a meeting Tuesday at 6 p.m. in the Haggar Auditorium for anyone interested in playing this spring. No skill or playing experience is necessary. Any quesions should be directed to Jim at x1776. -The Observer 
The NO Water Polo Club is hosting a tournament this weekend featuring Iowa, Iowa State, Michigan State and Purdue. Action starts Friday night and continues all Saturday at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. The Notre Dame A team faces Purdue Friday at 7 p.m. and meets Iowa Sat­urday at 10:30 a.m. -The Observer 
A women's track meet scheduled for Saturday at 
Meyo Track needs volunteers to help officiate it. Anyone interested should contact Linda at x2563 or Wendy at 684­4052. -The Observer 
Associated Press 

RALEIGH--' 'Personal Fouls," a book about the North Carolina State basketball pro­gram under Coach Jim Val­vano, will not be printed by Simon & Schuster because the book didn't meet its standards, the publisher said Wednesday. 
Excerpts of the book, based on book jacket blurbs, were published in The News and Ob­server of Raleigh last month. According to the published story, the jacket listed allega­tions of improper gifts to players and grade changes. It also alleged that a player deliberately lost N.C. State's first-round game in the 1987 NCAA tournament to avoid de­tection for drug use. 
"I am very pleased with this decision and want to express my appreciation to Simon & Schuster for taking the time to conduct a careful and complete review of the manuscript," Valvano said in a written state­ment. "Now, I am hoping to turn my full attention and energies to the players of the North Carolina State basket­ball team and to the people in­volved in the operation of our Department of Athletics." 
HolyCrossFathers Vocation Counseling 
How dol know if 1have a vocation to the priesthood? 
Wat is the academic afld formation program for becoming a priest? 
Wat scholarships and financial aid are available for seminary training? 
Wat are !he various apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? 
How do 1pray if I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood arhd I'm not sure?. 
II 

For a personal, confidential interview with no obligation, please write or call the vocation director. 
Rev. John Conley, CSC Rev. Paul Doyle, CSC P.O. Box 541 Notre Dame. Ind. 46556·0541 
For appointment, call between 8:30a.m. and 4:00 p.m. 219 239·6385 
He has steadfastly denied the allegations made in the blurbs. 
Pocket Books, a division of Simon & Schuster, said the decision not to proceed with publication of "Personal Fouls" was made after a review of the manuscript with Peter Golenbock, the author. 
The publisher had been warned by the North Carolina attorney general to be sure of its facts. 
But Golenbock said in a tele­phone interview from his Con­necticut home that he would "stand by my work and I am confident that 'Personal Fouls' will be published." 

-ORIN AND BEAR IT ­
Thirsty 

Thurs: CLUB NIGHT 
-think Spring Break! 
Feel the Blues ... 
FRI AND SAT Nights AT 10:00 p.m. 
Billy 'Stix' Nicks and The N's and Outs 
FRI LUNCH 12-2:00 p.m. 
~~OB::::~~EtJ\:::;;. 
have flightsMar'V's student . g the'V
c\ a St. A,ssurntn 
~ tudent an . Chicago. k what
Dame s . ort tn ing brea ' 
A. 'Notre O'flare A,trP inute of spr et {rom to catch at enjo'V ever'V rn \a the'V use to g both want to ortation shoU 
de of transPO'll re1 . \Airport
roo n ato a Regtona
South uen M,ichiana 
a) car {\ight {rom
muter 
b) corn c\ L'rno 
c)Unite ' 
Ul\ON.:. 

SOL . "cle•<~' "'.ke 
-k' gcharg
~ nar tn

\\s ano '"' t answer. \ution,
Cit'V traffic, to an incorrec be a good so ~ could 
. by car ern to h fieno 
travehng '\ "b" rna'V se ~ \ "inSout a 
~ wht e . ~ { 0e a' e "et,
A,no ktno o 0 wors ' \ t's
b r that an'{ Q'flarC· r, we\\, C remem ~ .ng {lights a~ c\ could mean· .. roWP S ~LJ~ \ 
mean . n in ou . h mare· , Not on 'V cance\\atlO \a be a ntg t atu\ationS· orta• . t sa'V it cou c\ "c," congr de of transP h )US l{ you answere ost reliable rn':.est {are and t e 
. c\ Limo the rn Hers the \o .nt for the is tJntteO'llare, it a\so oturefarriva~ polu\ts in no tion to nient c\ep~r C' c\e. 'Thts res , 
most conve ND M,atn tr { he students 0 nts • the . · ation ° t
stu e 0 rnaxttn11 
hassles an 
enjoyrnenn:t·_...,...,~%}8""rJf0~'0F 
iN>t';,\{': 
learn this lesson the hard way? H you need to get to O'Hare, 
count on UNITED LIMO•. We'll get you there. Call674·6993 for schedule and reservations. Or call your travel agent. 
United Limo 
--~ ~~~-------~--­
----. --.­
.-------~ 
Thursday, February 23, 1989 
CAMPUS 
4 p.m. Radiation Lab seminar "Stochastic Treatment of Short-Time Kinetics in Radiation Chemistry," by Simon Pimblott, Conference Theatre, Radiation Lab. 
4 p.m. "Max Reger, Modernity, and the Lied of the Early Twentieth Century" by Craig Westendorf from the depart­ment of music, Room 124 Crowley Music Hall. 
4 p.m. Kellogg Institute and Anthropology lecture "Contem­porary Andean Messianism," by Juan Ossio, University of Chicago, Room 131 Decio. 
4:30p.m. Army ROTC lecture "Women in the Military," by Colonel Patricia Hickerson, administration assistant to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Loftus Auditorium. 
5:30 p.m. Air Force ROTC dorm recruiting in all dormitories by Air Force Cadets. 
7 p.m. Career and Placement Services presents "Resume Writing," by Kitty Arnold, Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center. 
7 p.m. Support Services presents a slide show by Col. David Woods of the Atlantis Space Shuttle, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
7:30 p.m. English Department Reading by Percivel Everett, Galvin Auditorium. 
8 p.m. Student Players present "Simon," Washington Hall. Tickets available at the LaFortune Box Office. 
DINNER MENUS  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Gyro  Meat Loaf  
Pork Loin  Cheese Blintzes  
Beef Stir Fry  Roast Pork Loin  
Cheese Ravioli  Deli Bar  


COMICS 
Bloom County 

' 
[':::,·::-·..~".:\ 

Jerks 
The Observer page 15 
NEW YORK TIMES CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Fierce 46 Atelier 
49 Tin Pan Alley gp. brave. " 
1 Kind of box 29 "-butthe 
6 Bridge coup 51 Salon rinse 
30 Funeral oration follower yore 
10 Close or roll 52 Bondsman of 
31 Composer 14-Wences Wilder 53 "-the fields we go"
15 Campus region, 33 Seance sounds for short 56 Between 
37 Described in a schools16 Pasticcio 

human form 17 Outside a 60 Greek letters 
40 Political 
cartoonistregular program 62 Handel favorite 41 Word form for 20 Pedicured item 

"Chinese" 63 Spots
21 Add whisky 42 Cow Palace, for 64 "-Cassius
22Hole-­

" 
(duffer's dream) one 65 Solicit 
23 Bridge position 43 Actress Raines 25 Joseph of 45 Chemical Hollywood compound DOWN 
1 Compass readingANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
2 Barber's call 3 Golden-rule word 
4 Prudence or prescience 5 Cell occupant 19 Plant shoot 34 Interruptive 47 Past or present sound 
48 Loosen

6 Crouch down 24 Lulu 35 Ache 49 Pale 
7 Stagger 25 K. Hepburn role 36 Duel memento 50 Hairnet 
aBern's stream 26 Sprat's preference 52 Instant replay 9 Year in Luther's 38 Frogner Park 54 Basic French 
locale infinitive 

time 21 Armbone 
10 Negotiating offer 28 Items for Child 39 Tabula follower 
55 Latvian port11 Distribute 29 Verne's skipper 44 Tale twister 
57 Piggery 

31 Samoan port 45 North Atlantic 58 Mont Blanc, for isI. 
one 18 Holmes's quest Cambodia 46 Liners 59 Torsk 
32-Nolof 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

Bob Mclaughlin & Kevin McKay 



Friday: Campus SYR 9-12, N. Dining Hall Saturday: Ice Skating 10:30-12pm, free skates, free cookies & cocoa 

Volleyball Tourney 12-4pm, S. Quad 
Thursday: All Night Movies Cartoon Night 
12:30am Attack of the Killer Tomatoes Friday: 2:05am Animal House Crossiq.g Delancy 4:00am Life of Brian Saturday: Cushing, $1 Top Gun (sponsored by GSU) Engineering Aud., 8 & 10:15, $2 

r-·­
------·~-~-~­
Sports
pag_e 16 Thursday, February 23, 1989 
Roddy KOs Quinn; two champs upset 
By TIM SULLIVAN Sports Writer It was the shot heard 'round the world .... Or at least around the Stepan Center. But in this case,the shotgun blast didn't start a war-­it ended one. Super-heavyweight Steve Roddy truly saw the whites of Dan Quinn's eyes, but again the  other fighter before the third-round bell. Maybe the nickname is a psy­chological ploy, because Be­cklund certainly has no prob­lem with a hard-nosed fighting style that leads directly to the nose of his opponent. Last night, Becklund faced off against senior John Flick­inger, and "Baby Face" Flick­inger had some success... for one round.  
historical  chronology  was  After  dancing  with  Flick­ 
backwards.  inger for one round and allow­ 
Roddy saw the whites of the  ·  ing him to wipe off a number  
eyes  after  the  shot,  a  direct  of  good  punches,  Becklund  
result of his vicious first-round right-hand to Quinn's head,  opened the second round like a man on a mission.  
which ended the closing fight  That's all it took--the referee  The Observer I E.G Bailey  
of last night's Bengal Bouts semi-finals. Roddy's right hand propelled him to the finals of the 59th an­ would not allow Flickinger to answer the third-round bell. "Sean (Notre Dame boxing coach Sean McCormack) kind  It was a wild night at the fights Wednesday, as super-heavyweight Steve Roddy knocked out Dan Quinn and two champions, Chris Balint and Bill  Angrlck lost decisions in the semi-final round of the Bengal Bouts.  
nual Bengal Bouts, along with 27 other fighters, who will fight  of motivated me," Becklund said of his powerful second  thumb, will be fighting Be­cklund for the third time in  barrage of Biolchini jabs and never went down.  That style nearly got Biol­chini in trouble in the first  
to wear boxing jackets bearing the word "CHAMP." One man who already has  round flurry. "He told me to go out and get 'em." Becklund now must face a  their Bengal Bouts careers. There should be no surprises for either fighter.  The final cards, however, must have been convincing. "I tried something differ- round, as Stahl's punches found landing room very close to Boom-Boom's chin. One first­ 
such a jacket, defending light heavyweight champion Vance  familiar· obstacle in his quest for the crown-­senior Steve  Another returning champion who overcame a tough first  ent," said Biolchini, whose fa­ther was a Bengal Bouts cham­ round punch, in fact, stood Biol­chini up, and the champ looked  
Becklund, continued to contra­dict his "Pretty Boy" nick­name, as he stopped yet an- Riedl. Riedl, who advanced to the finals earlier this week be­cause of Kevin Smith's broken  round was Doug "Boom Boom" Biolchini. His opponent, Tom Stahl, held up valiantly to a  pion in the 1960s. "I wanted to go right in there and not fool around."  vulnerable for a time. see BENGALS, page  9  

Women's tennis team defeats ISU easily 6-3 
By CHRIS COONEY ily, she had a chance to rest Cathy Bradshaw moved up Sports Writer before the doubles and she from the eighth position to win came back to put us over the at number six," said Gelfman. Depth and stamina. top." In addition to wins by Barton The Notre Dame women's Gelfman credited Pacella's and Bradshaw, Kristy Doran tennis team proved that they partner Illig for setting the tone posted a 6-1, 6-0 victory at third had both of these Wednesday, for the deciding match. Illig did singles by playing "virtually as they posted a 6-3 win over not play in the singles compe­flawless tennis," according to Illinois State for their first vic­tition because of a nagging Gelfman. Tyler Musleh won at 
tory in a dual match this shin-splint injury. the fifth spot via a default by season. The Irish defeated the "I'm really glad we saved ISU. Redbirds despite Kim Pacel­Natalie because she came into 
la's illness and the absence of the match fresh," Gelfman ex­Gelfman was pleased that No. 1 singles player CeCe plained. "The girls were chip­the new doubles teams pulledCahill. ping well and did a good job together to complete the vic­
Pacella, playing with a fever, winning points at the net by tory.lost a close match at number coming in behind their service "We had different peoplefour singles 6-1, 2-6, 1-6 but returns and poaching." playing together and we knew rebounded to combine with Gelman also sited the play of we needed a strong effort to Natalie Illig to beat the Red­the revised singles line-up. The win," claimed Gelfman. "The birds number three doubles Irish were leading 4-2 going girls went for everything.'' team and assure the Irish vic­into the doubles, even though In addition to the win a third tory with a 6-4, 6-2 win. they were all playing above doubles, the Irish also captured 
"The singles match was their regular positions. a victory at the number one 
tough for Kim," said Irish head "Being without the number spot. Barton teamed with Katie coach Michele Gelfman. "She one player always hurts, but I Clark for that 7-5, 6-0 victory. 
was playing very well but thought Tracy Barton held up 
see TENNIS, page 1 0 
simply ran out of steam. Luck-well in CeCe's spot. In addition, 
ND basketball ready for Flyers 
Defense the key to women's MCC matchup on the road 
By GREG GUFFEY Notre Dame fell out of sole on the boards. We just didn't Sports Writer possession of first place in the play defense in the post against ~. MCC last Saturday with a 108-Loyola and didn't make the ad­
Just over a week ago, the 77 loss to Loyola. Both teams justments." Notre Dame women's basket­now sport 9-1 conference Notre Dame hopes to get ball team turned in it best de­records. back in the win column tonight fensive performance of the Then No. 3 Tennessee dealt at Dayton. The MCC contest is season in a 78-34 victory over the Irish their worst loss in the scheduled to begin at 6 p.m. St. Louis. history of the women's basket­
Since then the Irish have ball program Monday night, 98-At first glance, the Dayton given up 206 points in two 43. That loss dropped Notre might seem like the perfect 


losses, lost sole possession of Dame to 15-8 overall, 6-7 in non­remedy for Notre Dame's ills. first place in the Midwestern conference games. The Flyers are 5-18 and 4-7 in ~!
'.
Collegiate Conference and the conference. • . -~
J

probably taken themselves out "In the Tennessee game, we Lately, however, the Flyers The Observer I Mike Moran of post-season contention. packed in a zone because we have turned things around, Dlondra Toney (left) and Annie Schwartz (right) will try to help the 
"I'm surprised and I'm dis­couldn't really match up with winning three of their last five Notre Dame women's basketball Improve their defensive play, which appointed," Irish coach Muffet them man-to-man," McGraw has suffered as of late, and get back on track tonight with a win
see DAYTON, page 13 
McGraw said. said. "They also really beat us on the road against Dayton. 

